EIGHTY-NINTH  ANNUAL 

CONFERENCE 

Of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly 
Hall,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  June  1st, 
2nd  and  3rd,  1919,  with  a  Full  Report 
of  the  Discourses 


35  Cents 


PUBLISHED  BY  THE  DESERET  NEWS 


uiUJfiBUH)OJiii:njijinjifMiiHJJt«jitin(  iJJNJiiiiiininiiJiimiiJiiirjiiiHiiniiuinjiiiiuTi  jiiiinMiiifjiMJiriJiMiiiinfuiiMiininiiiiiiHfiiiiiinHjjMJiunmiisiiiiij^: 


NEW  BOOKS 


2000  GOSPEL  QUOTATIONS 

By  JUDGE  HENRY  H.  ROLAPP— The  latest  addition  to  Home 
Literature.  The  volume  is  subdivided  into  thirty  general  heads 
with  two  hundred  and  four  sub-heads,  which  in  turn,  are  divided 
into  two  thousand  paragraphs.  Indispensable  to  every  missionary 
and  student  of  the  Gospel.  Handsomely  bound  in  cloth  $125 

LOVE  AND  THE  LIGHT— An  Idyl  of  the  Westland. 

By  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY — A  Love  Story  told  in  verse,  into  which 
the  religious  experience  of  both  hero  and  heroine  is  interwoven. 
Adopted  as  one  of  the  books  in  the  M.  I.  A.  Reading  Course,  1918. 
Illustrated  and  beautifully  bound  in  cloth   $125 

TOBACCO  AND  HUMAN  EFFICIENCY 

By  DR.  FREDERICK  J.  PACK— Deseret  Professor  of  Geology, 
University  of  Utah.  Dedicated  to  the  unbounded  possibilities  of  the 
youth  of  Israel.   Bound  in  cloth  $1.00 

THE  WAY  OF  ETERNAL  LIFE 

An  explanation  of  the  doctrines  of  the  gospel,  written  especially 
for  young  folks,  by  Edwin  F.  Parry  75  cts. 

THE  MAN  OF  TOMORROW 

By  CLAUDE  RICHARDS,  a  discussion  of  Vocational  Success  with 
the  boys  of  today.    Beautifully  illustrated  $1.00 

WHITNETS  POPULAR  HISTORY  OF  UTAH 

A  complete  and  up-to-date  History  in  one  volume.  Over  600  pages, 
250  vi.  ws  and  portraits  of  the  Founders  and  Builders  of  the  State. 

Large  Ootavo  Vol. — Cloth  Embossed   $2.00 

Large  Octavo  Vol. — Half  Morocco   2.50 


|    DESERET  NEWS  BOOK  STORE  1 

I      No.  6  MAIN  STREET     -     SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  § 


Eighty-Ninth  Annual  Conference 

Of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 

FIRST  DAY 


The  Eighty-ninth  Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake 
City,  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Sunday, 
June  1,  1919,  the  conference  having 
been  postponed  from  April  6,  1919, 
owing  to  the  health  conditions  of  the 
communities.  President  Heber  J. 
Grant  presided. 

AUTHORITIES  PRESENT. 

Of  the  First  Presidency:  Heber 
J.  Grant,  Anthon  H.  Lund,  and 
Charles  W.  Penrose  ;  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger 
Clawson  *  George  Albert  Smith,* 
Orson  F.  Whitney,  David  O.  Mc- 
Kay, Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Talmage, 
Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R. 
Lyman  and  Melvin  J.  Ballard.  Pre- 
siding Patriarch  Hyrum  G.  Smith ; 
•of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy, 
'Seymour  B.  Young,  Brigham  H. 
Roberts,  J.  Golden  Kimball,  Rulon 
S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin, 
Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi  Edgar 
Young;  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric, 
Charles  W.  Nibley,  David  A.  Smith 
and  John  Wells;  Assistant  Histor- 
ians, Andrew  Jenson  and  A.  Wil- 

*Reed  Smoot  was  absent  in  Wash- 
ington, and  Geo.  F.  Richards  presid- 
ing over  the  British  Mission. 


liam  Lund.  There  were  also  a  large 
number  of  presidents  of  stakes,  with 
their  counselors,  Patriarchs,  Bish- 
ops of  wards,  and  numerous  other 
prominent  men  and  women  repre- 
senting the  various  quorums  and 
organizations  of  the  Church. 

The  following  presidents  of  mis- 
sions, and  their  successors,  where 
appointed,  were  in  attendance 
Walter  P.  Monson  and  his  newly 
appointed  successor,  George  W. 
McCune,  Eastern  States ;  Samuel 
O.  Bennion,  Central  States ;  Ger- 
man E.  Ellsworth,  and  his  succes- 
sor Winslow  Farr  Smith,  North- 
ern States ;  John  L.  Herrick,  and 
his  successor,  John  M.  Knight, 
Western  States ;  Joseph  E.  Robin- 
son, and  his  successor  Joseph  W. 
McMurrin,  California ;  Charles  A. 
Callis,  Southern  States ;  Heber  C. 
Iverson,  Northwestern  States ;  Ray 
L.  Pratt,  Mexican;  E.  Wesley 
Smith,  Hawaiian;  Nephi  Jensen, 
Canadian ;  Theodore  Tobiason, 
Swedish;  Benj.  Goddard,  Bureau 
of  Information  Temple  Block;  and 
President  George  Albert  Smith,  of 
the  British  Mission,  who  is  to 
release  Elder  George  F.  Richards. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  called 
the  great  congregation  to  order. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 
"We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a 
prophet." 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Hy- 
rum  G.  Smith,  presiding  Patriarch 
of  the  Church. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 
"Come,  come,  ye  Saints." 

THE  SOLEMN  ASSEMBLY. 

The  quorums  of  the  Priesthood 
and  officers  were  present,  in  solemn 
assembly,  for  the  purpose  of  voting, 
in  that  capacity,  for  General  Au- 
thorities of  the  Church.  The  quo- 
rums and  officers  in  nine  divisions 
voted  in  the  following  order:  First 
Presidency ;  Apostles  ;  Patriarchs  ; 
Presidents  'of  ■st&kgs,  Counselors 
and  High  Councilors;  High 
Priests;  Seventies;  Elders;  Bish- 
ops and  Counselors,  and  the  Lesser 
Priesthood. 

They  were  arranged  as  follows : 
First  Presidency  and  Apostles,  in 
their  respective  places  on  the  stand ; 
Patriarchs,  south  wing  of  the  stand ; 
Presidents  of  stakes,  Counselors 
and  High  Counselors,  lower  stands 
and  left  front ;  High  Priests,  left 
center  of  main  hall ;  Seventies,  right 
center  of  main  hall ;  Elders  back 
left  of  main  hall ;  Bishops  and  coun- 
selors, left  wing  of  the  stand,  Les- 
ser Priesthood  back  of  the  north 
left  isle.  The  remaining  portions 
of  the  building,  including  the  galler- 
ies, were  occupied  by  members  at 
large. 

ORDER  OF  VOTING. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  stated 

that  in  voting,  each  quorum  of  the 
Priesthood  would  rise,  and'  the  mem- 
bers voting  would  raise  their  right 
handsy  and  then  be  quickly  seated 
so  that  the  process  of  voting  might 
be  done  as  quickly  as  possible. 
Those  wishing  to  vote  in  the  nega- 
tive would  vote  in  like  manner. 

The  order  of  voting  was  as  fol- 
lows : 


First. — The  First  Presidency. 

Second. — The  Apostles. 

Third. — Patriarchs. 

Fourth. — The  Presidents  of 
stakes,  their  Counselors,  and  High 
Councilors.  . 

Fifth.— High  Priests. 

Sixth. — Seventies. 

Seventh. — Elders. 

Eighth. — Bishops  and  their 
Counselors. 

Ninth. — The  Lesser  Priesthood 
(Priests,  Teachers  and  Deacons.) 

Tenth. — All  the  members  of  the 
Church  present. 

Practically  the  whole  body  of  the 
hall  was  occupied  completely  by  the 
Priesthood,  and  the  scene  from  the 
stand,  as  the  many  thousands  of 
men  stood  up,  quorum  by  quorum, 
to  vote,  their  right  hands  raised  to 
the  square,  was  the  most  impressive 
stately,  and  dignified  religious  sol- 
emnity that  the  eyes  of  man  ever 
beheld,  not  to  speak  of  the  scene, 
when  the  whole  audience  ten  thous- 
and in  number,  covenanted  unan- 
imously in  like  manner  to  sustain 
their  chosen  leaders. 

OFFICERS  VOTED  FOR. 

Following  are  the  officers  voted 
upon,  and  the  introductory  remarks 
by: 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

We  will  now  present  to  the  con- 
gregation the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church,  those  holding  the 
Priesthood  only.  Inasmuch  as  there 
will  be  ten  votes  called,  compris- 
ing the  different  orders  of  the 
Priesthood,  and  the  assembly  as  a 
whole,  and  it  will  take  so  much  time, 
only  the  General  Authorities  will  be 
presented  at  this  conference. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


3 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES. 

It  was  proposed  that  we  sustain : 

Heber  J.  Grant,  as  Prophet,  Seer 
and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  First  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency. 

Charles  W.  Penrose,  as  Second 
Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

Rudger  Clawson,  as  acting  Presi- 
dent of  the  Twelve  Apostles. 

As  members  of  the  Council  of 
Twelve  Apostles : 
Rudger  Clawson 
Reed  Smoot 
George  Albert  Smith 
George  F.  Richards 
Orson  F.  Whitney 
David  O.  McKay 
Anthony  W.  Ivins 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
James  E.  Talmage 
Stephen  L.  Richards 
Richard  R.  Lyman 
Melvin  J.  Ballard 

Hyrum  G.  Smith,  as  Presiding 
Patriarch  of  the  Church. 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Pres- 
idency, the  Twelve  Apostles  and 
Patriarch,  as  Prophets,  Seers  and 
Revelators. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  Sev- 
enty: Seymour  B.  Young,  Brigham 


H.  Roberts,  Jonathan  G.  Kimball, 
Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  Mc- 
Murrin,  Charles  H.  Hart  and  Levi 
Edgar  Young. 

Charles  W.  Nibley,  as  Presiding 
Bishop,  with  David  A.  Smith  and 
John  Wells  as  his  First  and  Second 
Counselors. 

Fleber  J.  Grant,  as  Trustee-in- 
Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

In  each  instance  President  Grant 
announced  the  motion  to  sustain  the 
authority  voted  upon  and  called  for 
the  affirmative  vote.  Following  the 
response,  the  negative  of  the  ques- 
tion was  presented,  and  should  there 
be  any  who  favored  it,  they  were 
requested  to  make  known  their  will. 

The  voting  throughout,  which 
was  completed  at  10:37  o'clock,  was 
unanimous  without  exception  in 
favor  of  the  affirmative. 

A  soprano  solo,  "A  Voice  in  the 
Wilderness,"  was  sung  by  Mrs. 
Brewerton. 

President  Grant  gave  notice  that 
an  overflow  meeting  would  now  be 
opened  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  and 
he  appointed  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy  to  take  charge,  and  devote 
the  'time  and  their  remarks  to  the 
memory  of  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  regret  that  all  of  the  Saints  cannot  be  present  in  one  building  to 
hear  the  remarks  that  may  be  made  upon  this  occasion.  We  also  regret 
that  the  men  who  stand  at  the  head  of  this  great  body  of  Seventies  could 
not  remain  here  to  partake  of  the  spirit  of  this  occasion.  But  we  feel  that 
those  who  have  met  in  the  Assembly  Hall  are  entitled  to  hear  some  of  the 
general  authorities  of  the  Church  speak  upon  the  life  and  labors,  and  bear 
witness  of  their  love  and  reverence  for,  and  their  faith  in,  our  beloved 
prophet,  the  late  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  who  has  departed  this  life 
since  we  last  met  in  general  conference. 

•     THE  SPIRIT  GIVETH  LIFE. 

Inasmuch  as  all  that  is  said  here  today  will  be  reported,  and  as  our 
brethren  of  the  Seventy  can  read  what  is  said,  they  will  miss  only  the  spirit 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


of  this  occasion,  which  I  feel  in  my  heart — if  the  Lord  will  only  bless  us 
abundantly — will  be  considerable  of  a  loss ;  because,  after  all  is  said  and 
done,  in  all  the  labors  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  it  is  the  spirit  that  counts, 
for  the  spirit  giveth  life,  and  the  dead  letter  killeth ;  but  we  shall  hope  and 
pray  that  the  spirit  of  this  occasion  will  find  echo  in  the  hearts  of  our 
brethren  who  have  just  left  us,  when  they  read  today's  proceedings. 

A  PLEDGE  OF  FAITHFUL  SERVICE. 

I  feel  humble,  beyond  any  language  with  which  God  has  endowed  me 
to  express  it,  in  standing  before  you  here  this  morning,  occupying  the 
position  in  which  you  have  just  voted  to  sustain  me.  I  recall  standing 
before  an  audience  in  Tooele,  after  having  been  sustained  as  president  of 
that  stake,  when  I  was  a  young  man  twenty-three  years  of  age,  pledging  to 
that  audience  the  best  that  was  in  me.  I  stand  here  today  in  all  humility, 
acknowledging  my  own  weakness,  my  own  lack  of  wisdom  and  informa- 
tion, and  my  lack  of  the  ability  to  occupy  the  exalted  position  in  which 
you  have  voted  to  sustain  me.  But  as  I  said  as  a  boy  in  Tooele,  I  say  here 
today:  that  by  and  with  the  help  of  the  Lord,  I  shall  do  the  best  that  I 
can  to  fulfil  every  obligation  that  shall  rest  upon  me  as  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  to  the  full  extent  of  my 
ability. 

I  will  ask  no  man  to  be  more  liberal  with  his  means,  than  I  am  with 
mine,  in  proportion  to  what  he  possesses,  for  the  advancement  of  God's 
Kingdom.  I  will  ask  no  man  to  observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom  any  more 
closely  than  I  will  observe  it.  I  will  ask  no  man  to  be  more  conscientious 
and  prompt  in  the  payment  of  his  tithes  and  his  offerings  than  I  will  be. 
I  will  ask  no  man  to  be  more  ready  and  willing  to  come  early  and  to  go 
late,  and  to  labor  with  full  power  of  mind  and  body,  than  I  will  labor, 
always  in  humility.  I  hope  and  pray  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord, 
acknowledging  freely  and  frankly,  that  without  the  Lord's  blessings  it  will 
be  an  impossibility  for  me  to  make  a  success  of  the  high  calling  whereunto 
I  have  been  called.  But,  like  Nephi  of  old,  I  know  that  the  Lord  makes 
no  requirements  of  the  children  of  men,  save  he  will  prepare  a  way  for 
them,  whereby  they  can  accomplish  the  thing  which  he  has  required.  With 
this  knowledge  in  my  heart,  I  accept  the  great  responsibility,  without 
fear  of  the  consequences,  knowing  that  God  will  sustain  me  as  he  has 
sustained  all  of  my  predecessors  who  have  occupied  this  position,  pro- 
vided always,  that  I  shall  labor  in  humility  and  in  diligence,  ever  seeking 
for  the  guidance  of  his  Holy  Spirit :  and  this  I  shall  endeavor  to  do. 

THE  STANDARD  OF  ACTION. 

I  shall  not  occupy  your  time  by  reading  Section  121  of  the  Doctrine 
jnd  Covenants.  I  will  leave  that  for  each  and  every  one  of  those  before 
me,  and  those  to  the  right  and  the  left,  holding  the  priesthood',  and  as 
many  of  the  audience  as  may  feel  so  disposed,  to  read  it  when  they  go 
home.  With  the  help  of  the  Lord,  I  shall  endeavor,  standing  at  the  head 
of  the  Priesthood  of  God  upon  the  earth,  to  exercise  the  authority  that  has 
come  to  me  in  keeping  with  that  wonderful  revelation:  "No  power  or 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


5 


influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the  Priesthood,  only 
by  persuasion,  by  long  suffering,  by  gentleness,  and  meekness,  and  by 
love  unfeigned."  God  being  my  helper,  the  priesthood  that  I  hold,  the 
position  that  I  occupy,  shall  be  exercised  in  accordance  with  these  words 
that  I  have  quoted  to  you.  We  can  do  nothing,  as  recorded  in  that  rev- 
elation, only  as  we  exercise  love  and  charity  and  kindness — love  unfeigned. 
With  the  help  of  the  Lord  that  is  exactly  how  I  shall  administer,  to  the  best 
of  my  ability,  the  priesthood  of  God  that  has  come  to  me. 

I  could  stand  here  and  occupy  all  of  the  remaining  time,  with  the 
hundred  and  one  thoughts  that  have  come  into  my  mind,  in  connection 
with  the  duties  that  devolve  upon  me ;  but  I  am  anxious  that  my  counselors 
should  speak  to  you  here  this  morning,  and  I  am  anxious  to  pay  my  trib- 
ute of  respect  to  those  men  who  have  preceded  me.  I  take  no  credit  to 
myself  for  occupying  the  position  that  has  come  to,  me.  I  realize  that 
failure  will  be  the  result  if  I  do  not  give  the  Lord  the  credit  for  calling  me 
to, this  position,  and  seek  for  the  light  of  his  Spirit  to  guide  me  in  all 
that  I  shall  do. 

PRESIDENT  SNOW'S  TESTIMONY  CONCERNING  THE  PROPHET  JOSEPH. 

I  desire  to  read  to  you  a  testimony  regarding  the  first  man  who  occu- 
pied the  position  as  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints — the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  Jr.  This  testimony  was  given  a  short 
time  before  the  death  of  the  late  beloved  President  of  the  Church,  Lorenzo 
Snow,  and  will  be  found  in  the  current  June  number  of  the  Improvement 
Era,  in  an  article  written  by  his  son,  Elder  LeRoi  C.  Snow.  He  said, 
referring  to  his  father 

"His  work  on  earth  was  nearly  done,  his  mission  was  almost  finished;  he 
was  about  to  return  to  his  Maker,  and  with  all  the  remaining  strength  of  his 
soul  he  testified  concerning  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  he  and  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  commenced  their  life's  work  when  young  men: 

"  'A  word  or  two  about  Joseph  Smith.  Perhaps  there  are  very  few  men  now 
living  who  were  so  well  acquainted  with  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet  as  T  was. 
I  was,  with  him  often-times.  I  visited  him  in  his  family,  ate  at  his  table,  as- 
sociated with  him  under  various  circumstances,  and  had  private  interviews  with 
him  for  counsel.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God;  I  know 
that  he  was  an  honorable  man,  a  moral  man,  and  that  he  had  the  respect  of 
those  who  were  acquainted  with  him.  The  Lord  has  shown  me  most  clearly 
and  completely  that  he  was  a  Prophet  of  God,  and  that  he  held  the  holy 
priesthood  and  the  authority  to  baptize  people  for  the  remission  of  their  sins, 
and  to  lay  hands  upon  them  for  the  reception  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  they 
might  receive  a  knowledge  themselves  in  relation  to  these  things.  I  am  one 
who  has  received  from  the  Lord  the  strongest  revelation  concerning  the  truth 
of  this  work.  That  manifestation  was  with  me  powerfully,  for  hours  and  hours, 
and  whatever  circumstance  may  occur  in  my  life,  as  long  as  memory  lasts 
this  perfect  knowledge  wlil  remain  with  me. 

As  to  the  testimony  that  Lorenzo  Snow,  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord,  in 
later  years  had,  in  this  same  article  his  testimony  is  recorded. 

"About,  three  weeks  after  his  baptism,  Lorenzo  Snow  received  a  wonder- 
ful vision  which  he  tells  in  his  own  language,  in  his  journal,  as  follows: 

"  'I  had  no  sooner  opened  my  lips  in  an  effort  to  pray  than  I  heard  a 
sound,  just  above  my  head,  like  the  rustling  of  silken  robes,  and  immediately 
the  Spirit  of  God  descended  upon  me,  completely  enveloping  my  whole  per- 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


son,  filling  me,  from  the  crown  of  my  head  to  the  soles  of  my  feet,  and  O,  the 
joy  and  happiness  I  felt!  No  language  can  describe  the  almost  instantaneous 
transition  from  a  dense  cloud  of  mental  and  spiritual  darkness  into  a  refulgence 
of  light  and  knowledge,  as  it  was  at  that  time  imparted  to  my  understanding. 
I  then  received  a  perfect  knowledge  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the 
Son  of  God,  and  of  the  restoration  of  the  Holy  Priesthood,  and  the  fulness  of 
the  Gospel.  It  was  a  complete  baptism — a  tangible  immersion  in  the  heavenly 
principle  or  element  (the  gift  of)  the  Holy  Ghost;  and  even  more  real  and 
physical  in  its  effects  upon  every  part  of  my  system  than  the  immersion  by 
water;  dispelling  forever,  so  long  as  reason  and  memory  lasts,  all  possibility 
of  doubt  or  fear  in  relation  to  the  fact  handed  down  to  us  historically,  that  the 
'Babe  of  Bethlehem'  is  truly  the  Son  of  God;  also  the  fact  that  he  is  now  being 
revealed  to  the  children  of  men,  and  communicating  knowledge,  the  same  as 
in  the  apostolic  times.  I  was  perfectly  satisfied,  as  well  as  I  might  be,  for 
my  expectations  were  more  than  realized,  I  think  I  may  safely  say  in  an  in- 
finite degree.  .  .  .  That  night  as  I  retired  to  rest  the  same  wonderful 
manifestations  were  repeated,  and  continued  to  be  for  several  successive  nights. 
The  sweet  remembrance  of  those  glorious  experiences  from  that  time  to  the 
present,  bring  them  fresh  before  me,  imparting  an  inspiring  influence  which 
pervades  my  whole  being,  and  I  trust  will  to  the  close  of  my  earthly  exist- 
ence. 

CONFIRMING  TESTIMONY  OF  MANY  OTHERS. 

I  have  listened  to  the  testimony  of  all  of  the  apostles  who  have  lived, 
in  these  valleys  of  the  mountains  from  Brigham  Young  to  Josenh  F. 
Smith,  and  have  heard  them  tell  of  their  personal  acrmaintance  with  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  The  testimony  of  Joseph  F.  Smith  was  the 
testimony  of  one  who  as  a  child  knew  the  Prophet  and  loved  him.  The 
testimony  of  Brigham  Young,  Jr.,  was  in  the  same  class;  but  all  the 
other  testimonies  were  those  of  men  of  experience,  men  of  oower,  men 
of  individual  determination,  men  who  had  wills  and  minds  of  their  own, 
men  who  could  not  be  led  bv  a  man  who  did  not  teach  the  truth. 

The  testimony  of  Brigham  Young,  of  John  Taylor,  of  Lorenzo  Snow, 
Wilford  Woodruff,  Erastus  Snow,  George  A.  Smith,  Heber  C.  Kimball, 
and  of  others  who  have  held  the  apostleship,  who  have  held  the  priest- 
hood of  God  and  who  knew  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  intimately ;  of 
every  true  Latter-day  Saint,  man  and  woman,  including  the  testimony 
of  my  own  dear  departed'  mother,  than  whom  no  sweeter,  purer,  nobler 
soul  ever  lived;  the  testimony  of  Eliza  R.  Snow,  Zina  D.  H.  Young, 
Bathsheba  W.  Smith,  "Aunt  Em."  Wells,  and  others  too  numerous  to 
mention. — was  of  their  individual  knowledge  regarding  the  uprightness 
of  the  life  of  Joseph  Smith,  regarding  the  integrity  of  the  man,  regarding 
the  inspiration  of  the  living  God  that  attended  him  in  all  of  his  labors. 

THE  TRANSFIGURATION  OF  BRIGHAM  YOUNG. 

I  have  the  testimonies  from  George  Romney,  from  my  mother,  from 
other  relatives  of  mine  and  from  scores  of  people,  that,  upon  the  day  when 
Sidney  Rigdon  endeavored  to  steal  the  Church  of  Christ  and  to  become 
the  leader,  God  manifested  to  the  people  upon  that  occasion,  by  the  trans- 
figuration of  Brigham  Young — so  that  he  appeared  as  Joseph  Smith,  so 
that  he  spoke  as  Joseph  Smith — and  thereby  the  testimony  came  to  the 
Saints  that  Brigham  Young  was  the  man  to  succeed  Joseph  Smith  the 
Prophet  of  God. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


7 


PERSONAL  TESTIMONY  CONCERNING  PRESIDENT  BRIGHAM  YOUNG. 

I  became  acquainted  with  Brigham  Young  when  I  was  a  little  child 
six  years  of  age ;  from  that  time  until  the  day  of  his  death  I  was.  intimate 
with  him.  I  was  as  intimate  with  one  of  his  boys — the  late  Feramorz  L. 
Young — from  the  time  that  we  were  little  children  until  he  left  to  go  to 
Mexico — as  any  two  boys  ever  could  be.  Perhaps  no  three  young  men 
were  ever  more  intimate  than  Heber  J.  Grant,  Feramorz  L.  Young  and 
General  Richard  W.  Young.  We  grew  up  together.  We  slept  together. 
We  played  together.  We  attended  Sunday  school  together.  We  attended 
day  school  together. 

I  was  almost  as  familiar  in  the  homes  of  President  Brigham  Young 
as  I  was  in  the  home  of  my  own  mother.  In  one  home,  that  of  Aunt  Emily 
Partridge  Young,  if  I  was  hungry  I  felt  as  free  to  go  in  and'  ask  for  some- 
thing to  eat  there  as  in  ray  own  home.  I  have  spent  hours  and  hours,  as  a 
child,  in  the  rooms  of  Eliza  R.  Snow,  listening  to  her  counsel  and  advice, 
and  hearing  her  relate  incidents  in  the  life  of  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet, 
and  bearing  witness  of  the  wonderful  blessings  of  God  to  Brigham 
Young.  As  I  say,  I  was  familiar  with  the  Prophet  Brigham  Young.  I 
knelt  down  time  and  time  again  in  his  home  in  the  Lion  House  at  family 
pravers,  as  a  child  and  as  a  young  man :  and  I  bear  witness  that  as  a  little 
child,  upon  more  than  one  occasion,  because  of  the  inspiration  of  the 
Lord  to  Brigham  Young  while  he  was  supplicating  God  for  guidance,  I 
have  lifted  my  head,  turned  and  looked  at  the  place  where  Brigham  Young 
was  praying,  to  see  if  the  Lord  was  not  there.  It  seemed  to  me  that  he 
talked  to  the  Lord  as  one  man  would  talk  to  another.  I  can  bear  witness 
of  his  kindness,  of  his  love  to  me  as  an  individual,  of  his  love  of  God  and 
of  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  that  came  to  him  as  he  stood  where  I  am 
standing,  when  I  had  the  privilege  of  being  in  the  audience  and  listening 
to  his  inspiring  words. 

REVELATION  TO  PRESIDENT  JOHN  TAYLOR. 

I  was  called  into  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Aoostles  bv  a  revelation 
of,  the  Lord  to  President  Tohn  Taylor,  and  from  the  time  that  I  entered 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  two  years  after  Tohn  Taylor  was  made 
President  of  the  Church,  until  the  day  of  his  death,  I  met  with  him,  week 
after  week,  in  the  Endowment  house,  and  I  know  that  he  was  a  servant 
of  the  living  God ;  I  know  that  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  came  to  him : 
and  I  know  that  upon  all  occasions,  whenever  he  said :  "This  is  what 
the  Lord  desires,"  and  his  associates  in  the  council  of  the  apostles  sus- 
tained his  position,  that  upon  every  occasion  he  was  vindicated  and  the 
inspiration  of  the  Lord  to  him  showed  that  his  wisdom  bv  the  power  of 
God,  had  been  superior  to  the  wisdom  of  other  men.  Several  times  I 
have  gone  to  meetings  in  the  old  Endowment  house,  knowing  that  a  cer- 
tain matter  was  to  be  discussed  and  mv  mind  was  as  perfectly  set  upon  a 
certain  position  on  that  question  as  it  is  possible  for  a  man  to  have  his 
mind  set.  I  believe  I  am  as  decided  in  my  opinions  as  the  majority  of 
neople-.  I  have  heard  it  said  that  there  is  nobodv  as  stubborn  as  a 
Scotchman  except  a  Dutchman :  and  I  am  Scotch  on  my  father's 
side  and  Dutch  on  my  mother's  (laughter).  While  I  have  gone 
to  meetings  in  the  old  Endowment  house  determined'  in  favor  of  a  certain 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


line  of  policy,  I  have  willingly  and  freely  voted  for  the  exact  opposite  of 
that  policy,  because  of  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  that  came  to  John 
,  Taylor.  Upon  every  such  occasion  the  servant  of  the  Lord,  President 
Taylor,  was  vindicated,  and  his  superior  judgment,  by  the  inspiration  of 
the  Lord,  asserted  itself  in  favor  of  those  things  that  were  for  the  best 
good  of  the  people. 

I  could  relate  circumstance  after  circumstance  when  the  apostles  have 
been  sent  out  to  accomplish  certain  labors  under  the  inspiration  of  the 
Lord  to  John  Taylor,  when  they  thought  they  could  not  accomplish  the 
labors,  they  have  returned  and  been  able  to  bear  testimony  that  by 
and  with  the  help  of  the  Lord  they  had  been  able  to  accomplish  the  labor 
placed  upon  them  by  President  Taylor,  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord.  If  time 
would  permit,  I  would  like  to  relate  some  of  these  incidents,  because  they 
are  faith-promoting,  but  I  have  not  the  time. 

PRESIDENT  WILFORD  WOODRUFF  A  TRUE  PROPHET  OF  GOD. 

I  can  bear  witness  that  Wilford  Woodruff  was  in  very  deed  a  servant 
of  the  living  God  and  a  true  Prophet  of  God.  Wilford  Woodruff,  a  humble 
man,  converted  and  baptized  hundreds  of  people  in  a  few  months  in  Here- 
fordshire, England.  In  eight  months,  as  I  now  remember  it,  he  baptized 
between  fifteen  hundred  and  two  thousand  souls.  I  believe  that  no  other 
man  who  ever  walked  the  face  of  the  earth  was  a  greater  converter  of 
souls  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  He  was  a  man  of  the  most  wonderful 
and  marvelous  humility ;  a  man  who  had  never  been  engaged  in  any  great 
business  affairs ;  a  man  who  had  devoted  himself  to  farming,  who  had 
been  engaged  in  raising  fruits  and  cultivating  the  soil ;  a  humble  man,  of 
whom  I  had  heard  many  people  say  that  he  lacked  the  ability  to  preside 
over  the  Church  of  Christ.  But  I  want  to  bear  witness  to  you  that,  under 
the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  and  because  of  the  humility  of  the  man,  be- 
cause of  his  godlike  life  and  because  God  loved  him,  he  was  blessed  upon 
more  than  one  occasion  with  wisdom  that  was  superior  to  all  the  wisdom 
of  the  bright  financial  minds  in  the  Church. 

BEGINNING  OF  THE  SUGAR  INDUSTRY  IN  UTAH. 

President  Woodruff  announced  that  the  Lord  would  like  the  great 
business  of  manufacturing  sugar  established  in  our  midst,  and  a  committee 
w?'  appointed  from  the  directorate  of  two  of  the  largest  Church  institu- 
tions, two  of  the  most  substantial  in  all  Israel,  to  look  into  the  matter. 
Thev  investigated  the  advisability  of  establishing  the  beet  sugar  industry 
in  this  State  and  unanimously  reported  adversely.  President  Woodruff 
was  not  satisfied.  Another  committee  was  appointed.  I  was  on  the  first 
committee  and  he  appointed  me  on  the  second  committee.  I  begged 
to  be  excused,  because  I  had  already  formed  mv  opinion,  had  already 
signed  mv  name  to  a  report,  but  he  would  not  listen  to  my  request  to 
be  excused.  We  went  into  the  matter  again,  thoroughly  and  carefullv, 
and  the  second  committee  reported  adversely.  President  Woodruff 
said :  "Never  mind  the  report.  The  inspiration  to  rne  is  to  establish  the 
sugar  industry." 

I  was  called  upon  a  mission,  and  a  letter  was  given  to  me  in  connec- 
tion with  other  members  of  the  Council  of  the  Apostles,  and  we  were  ?,ent 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


9 


out  to  ask  men  to  subscribe  for  stock  in  the  Utah  Sugar  Company.  I  took 
individual  letters  to  different  men  asking  them  to  subscribe.  I  delivered  a 
letter  to  the  late  David  Eccles,  than  whom  I  never  met  a  clearer-headed 
business  man  in  my  life,  and  I  have  met  men  who  draw  their  hundred 
thousand  dollars  and  more  every  year  in  salary.  He  had  a  comprehensive 
grasp  on  business  affairs  which  to  me  was  superior  to  that  of  any  man  I 
ever  met.  David  smiled  when  the  letter  was  presented  to  him,  signed  by 
President  Woodruff  and  his  counselors,  asking  him  to  invest  five  thousand 
dollars,  or  seven  thousand  five  hundred  dollars.  He  said :  "Well,  I  would 
like  to  get  off  at  the  lowest  figure.  You  can  put  me  down  for  five  thousand 
dollars."  Then  he  added:  "I  hope  they  will  buy  lumber  from  me,  so  I 
may  make  a  profit  on  a  part  of  the  five  thousand  dollars;  and  after  I 
get  the  stock,  if  you  can  find  someone  who  would  like  to  buy  it  for 
twenty-five  hundred  dollars,  I  will  be  much  obliged  to  you  if  you  will 
come  and  get  the  stock."  Years  later,  when  he  put  hundreds  of  thou- 
sands of  dollars  into  the  sugar  business,  I  don't  know  whether  or  not  he 
felt  to  give  credit  to  that  humble  man,  Wilford  Woodruff,  for  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  Lord,  whereby  this  great  industry  was  established. 

But  for  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  to  Wilford  Woodruff  I  doubt  if 
we  would  have  any  sugar  business  in  this  state  or  in  Idaho,  today,  that 
would  amount  to  very  much.  I  am  inclined  to  think  that  the  Great  West- 
ern or  some  other  company  would  have  established  the  business  in  Utah 
and  Idaho,  and  that  the  people  of  these  states  would  simply  have  been 
working  for  them  instead  of  owning  the  majority  of  the  stock  in  our 
great  inter-mountain  factories. 

After  we  had  let  the  contract  for  the  building  of  the  sugar  factory  at 
Lehi,  the  panic  of  1891  came  on.  There  was  a  provision  in  the  contract 
that  before  the  machinery  was  shipped  by  the  Dyer  Company,  if  we  would 
pay  a  forfeit  of  fifty  thousand  dollars  the  contract  could  be  cancelled.  I 
had  been  sent  to  New  York,  Chicago,  Boston,  Philadelphia.  San  Francisco 
and  other  places,  by  the  Presidency,  to  try  to  raise  the  money  necessary 
to  build  this  factory,  but  it  looked  like  an  impossibility  to  get  the  money. 
It  was  the  opinion  of  business  men  and  others  that  we  should  pay  the 
fifty  thousand  dollars  forfeit  and  abandon  the  enterprise ;  but  when  the 
recommendation  was  presented,  Wilford  Woodruff's  answer  was  this: 
"From  the  day  I  received  a  knowledge  of  the  divinity  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  revealed  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  from  the  day 
that  I  went  out  as  a  humble  priest  to  proclaim  that  gospel,  although  it 
looked  like  death  in  front  of  me,  if  the  path  of  duty  that  the  gospel 
required  me  to  tread  called  me  to  face  death,  I  have  never 
turned  to  the  right  nor  turned  to  the  left ;  and  now  the  inspiration  of  the 
Lord  to  me  is  to  build  this  factory.  Every  time  I  think  of  abandoning  it, 
there  is  darkness ;  and  every  time  I  think  of  building  it,  there  is  light.  We 
will  build  the  factory  if  it  bursts  the  Church." 

We  did  built  it  and  it  did  not  burst  the  Church  (laughter)  ;  and  it 
and  subsequent  factories  have  made  for  our  people  and  for  the  Church 
millions  of  dollars. 

PRESIDENT  SNOW'S  WORK  OF  THREE  YEARS. 

I  know  that  Lorenzo  Snow  was  a  Prophet  of  God.    By  his  testi- 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


mony,  which  I  have  read  to  you,  and  by  the  testimony  of  my  mother  and 
hundreds  of  ,  others  who  knew  the  Prophet  Joseph,  as  well  as  by  the 
revelations  of  the  Spirit  of  God  to  me,  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
Prophet  of  God.  I  know  of  my  own  knowledge  that  Brigham  Young, 
and  John  Taylor  and  Wilford  Woodruff  were  Prophets  of  God.  It  is 
stated  that  men  do  not  amount  to  much  after  they  pass  fifty,  and  that 
when  they  are  sixty  you  ought  to  get  some  kind  of  a  drug  and  put  them 
to  sleep,  and  that  when  they  are  seventy  they  are  simply  useless.  But 
Lorenzo  Snow  came  to  the  presidency  of  the  Church  when  he  was  eighty- 
five  years  of  age,  and  what  he  accomplished  during  the  next  three  years 
of  his  life  is  simply  marvelous  to  contemplate.  He  lifted  the  Church  from 
the  financial  slough  of  despond,  so  to  speak,  from  almost  financial  bank- 
ruptcy— when  its  credit  was  hardly  good  for  a  thousand  dollars  without 
security,  when  it  was  paying  ten  per  cent  for  money — he  lifted  the  Church 
out  of  that  condition  and  made  its  credit  A  No.  1,  so  that  people  solicited 
and  asked  for  the  privilege  of  buying  the  bonds  of  this  Church  at  six 
per  cent.  Ten  per  cent  is  sixty-six  and  two-thirds  per  cent  more  than 
six  per  cent,  and  in  three  short  years  this  man,  beyond  the  age  of  ability 
in  the  estimation  of  the  world,  this  man  who  had  not  been  engaged  in  fin- 
ancial affairs,  who  had  been  devoting  his  life  for  years  to  laboring  in 
the  Temple,  took  hold  of  the  finances  of  the  Church  of  Christ,  under 
the  inspiration  of  the  living  God,  and  in  those  three  years  changed  every- 
thing, financially,  from  darkness  to  light. 

I  know  that  Lorenzo  Snow  was  God's  mouthpiece  upon  the  earth, 
that  he  was  the  representative  of  the  Lord  and  that  he  was  in  very  deed 
a  Prophet  of  God.  Read  the  wonderful  testimony  that  he  received  a  few 
weeks  after  his  baptism,  as  recorded  in  the  Improvement  Era,  concern- 
ing the  knowledge  that  he  received  that  God  lived,  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  that  the  priesthood  of  the  living 
God  has  been  restored  to  the  earth.  I  know  that  that  knowledge  guided 
his  life  from  that  day  to  the  day  that  he  became  God's  representative  upon 
the  earth. 

THE  COURAGE  OF  PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

Lorenzo  Snow  was  drowned  in  the  harbor  of  Honolulu,  in  the 
Hawaiian  Islands,  and  it  took  some  hours  to  bring  him  to  life  again.  At 
that  particular  time  the  Lord  revealed  to  him  the  fact  that  the  young 
man  Joseph  F.  Smith,  who  had  refused  to  get  off  the  vessel  that  had 
carried  them  from  San  Francisco  to  Honolulu,  and  get  into  a  small  boat, 
would  some  day  be  the  Prophet  of  God.  Answering  Lorenzo  Snow  who 
was  in  charge  of  the  company,  he  said:  "If  you  by  the  authority  of  the 
Priesthood  of  God,  which  you  hold,  tell  me  to  get  into  that  boat  and  at- 
tempt to  land,  I  will  do  so,  but  unless  you  command  me  in  the  authority 
of  the  Priesthood,  I  wil  not  do  so,  because  it  is  not  safe  to  attempt  to 
land  in  a  small  boat  while  this  typhoon  is  raging."  They  laughed  at  the 
young  man  Joseph  F.  Smith,  but  he  said,  "The  boat  will  capsize."  The 
others  got  into  the  boat,  and  it  did  capsize ;  and  but  for  the  blessings  of 
the  Lord  in  resuscitating  Lorenzo  Snow  he  would  not  have  lived,  because 
he  was  drowned  upon  that  occasion.  It  was  revealed  to  him,  then  and 
there,  that  the  boy,  with  the  courage  of  his  convictions,  with  the  iron 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


11 


will  to  be  laughed  at  and  scorned  as  lacking  courage  ro  go  m  mat.  ooai, 
and  who  stayed  on  that  vessel,  would  yet  be  the  Prophet  of  God.  Lorenzo 
Snow  told  me  this  upon  more  than  one  occasion,  long  years  before  Joseph 
F.  Smith  came  to  the  presidency  of  the  Church. 

EULOGY  AND  LETTER  OF  SYMPATHY  IN  MEMORY  OF  PRESIDENT 
JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

I  said  I  wanted  my  counselors  to  say  something,  but  I  am  afraid 
they  are  not  going  to  have  the  chance.  I  now  come  to  Joseph  F.  Smith. 
I  apologize  to  his  family  for  reading  a  personal  letter  of  sympathy.  1 
had  no  idea  as  I  sat  down  and  picked  up  my  pen  and  poured  out  my 
heart  in  love  and  sympathy  to  the  family,  that  I  would  ever  read  in  pub- 
lic that  letter ;  but  I  had  failed  to  get  my  mind  upon  anything  that  I  par- 
ticularly desired  to  say  upon  this  occasion,  and  last  night  I  borrowed 
from  one  of  his  sons  a  copy  of  the  letter;  and  although  it  may  not  be 
good  ethics,  I  wish  to  read  it,  because  therein  are  the  sentiments  of  my 
heart,  poured  out  in  love  to  his  family. 

'  At  Home,  November  20,  1918. 
To  the  family  of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith, 

My  dearly  beloved  friends:  Language  fails  me  to  express  to  you  my 
love  for  your  dear  departed  father  and  husband.  In  dear  Aunt  Eliza 
R.  Snow's  words  I  can  truthfully  say,  "He  was  beloved,  beloved  by  all." 

For  thirty-six  years  I  have  labored  under  his  Presidency,  while  he 
was  counselor  to  or  the  President  of  the  Church.  During  all  this  time 
no  man  could  possibly  have  inspired  one  over  whom  he  presided  with 
more  love  or  confidence  for  him  than  President  Smith  did  me.  I  have 
said  many  times  that  no  man  who  ever  lived,  with  whom  I  have  been 
associated,  had  been  beloved  by  me  as  much  as  your  dear  departed  hus- 
band and  father. 

I  could  not  and  did  not  in  my  heart  bring  myself  to  feel  that  he  was 
going  to  leave  us  until  the  afternoon  of  the  18th,  when  I  called  and  David 
said  he  wanted  to  see  me.  The  President  took  my  hand  and  pressed  it 
with  a  power  and  strength  that  was  far  from  what  one  could  expect  from 
a  dying  man,  and  he  blessed  me  with  power  and  the  Spirit  of  the  living 
God,  and  there  was  love  in  his  eyes  and  a  strong  pressure  of  his  hand, 
and  with  nearly  every  word  he  spoke  his  pressure  of  my  hand  thrilled  my 
being,  and  tears  of  gratitude  to  God  and  love  for  His  mouthpiece  upon 
the  earth  filled  my  heart.  His  blessing  was  all  that  I  could  ask  or  ex- 
pect had  he  been  my  own  dear  father.  . 

Sister  Bowman  entered  and  kissed  and  wept  over  her  father,  and  I 
walked  into  the  little  front  office  and  wept,  feeling  that  the  last  words  I 
would  ever  hear  from  his  beloved  lips  had  been  spoken  when  he  said  to 
me,  "The  Lord  bless  you,  my  boy,  the  Lord  bless  you,  you  have  a  great 
responsibility.  Always  remember  this  is  the  Lord's  work  and  not  man's. 
The  Lord  is  greater  than  any  man.  He  knows  whom  He  wants  to  lead 
His  Church  and  never  makes  any  mistakes.    The  Lord  bless  you." 

I  'returned  to  my  office,  but  I  did  not  even  have  the  heart  to  mail 
some  letters  which  I  had  written  earlier  in  the  day.  I  went  home  and 
after  eating  supper  I  again  visited  the  President,  whom  I  found  in  great 


12 


.  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


pain,  and  he  asked  President  Lund  who  was  there  to  bless  him  and  sup- 
plicate the  Lord  to  release  him,  and  call  him  home.  We  placed  our  hands 
upon  his  head  and  President  Lund  told  the  Lord  how  much  we  loved  our 
President  and  of  our  gratitude  for  the  joy  and  happiness  we  had  had  in 
laboring  with  him,  but  asked  that  he  be  called  home  if  his  life  could  not 
be  spared  to  us. 

The  next  morning  I  awoke  at  one  o'clock  and  was  not  able  to  get  to 
sleep  until  after  six-thirty,  as  my  mind  was  with  the  President.  I  got 
the  November  Era  and  reread  the  President's  talk  at  the  October  confer- 
ence, and  after  doing  so  I  wrote  in  my  Era  at  the  close  of  his  talk: 

"Nov.  19/18.  Re-read  twice  and  wept  as  I  think  of  how  near  death's  door 
the  President  is. 

"It  is  3:45  and  I  have  been  awake  since  one  a.  m." — Heber  J  .Grant. 
The  President  lived  but  one  hour  and  five  minutes  after  I  had  written 
that  he  was  near  death's  door. 

The  Lord  has  been  very  good  to  me  in  times  of  sorrow,  and  I  hops, 
and  pray  with  all  my  heart  that  He  will  bless  and  comfort  your  sorrowing 
hearts,  as  you  read  of  his  goodness  to  me.  I  am  enclosing  a  copy  of  a 
letter  telling  of  the  blessings  given  to  me  in  .times  of  affliction.  There  are 
two  poems  among  those  published  with  my  letter  to  Brother  and  Sister 
Winters  which  have  comforted  and  blessed  me.  "The  Changed  Cross," 
and  "Providence  is  Over  All."*  Especially  have  I  been  blessed  while  read- 
ing Sister  Woodmansee's  inspiring  words.  I  knew  her  from  my  earliest 
recollection  until  the  day  of  her  death,  and  my  love  of  her  poem  was 
no  doubt  increased  from  the  fact  that  she  lived  in  perfect  harmony  with 
its  teachings. 

I  was  once  talking  of  the  favorite  poems  of  our  Church  leaders  and 
I  turned  to  President  Smith  and  asked  him  which  of  our  hymns  was 
his  favorite  and  he  said  he  hardly  knew,  but  he  thought  that  perhaps 
his  favorite  was  the  splendid  hymn,  "Uphold  the  Right,  Though  Fierce 
the  Fight,'  by  that  heroic  little  soul,  Sister  Emily  Hill  Woodmansee."t 
I  enclose  a  copy  of  this  hymn  with  this  letter. 

I  have  never  known  the  joy  and  comfort  of  a  father's  love,  but 
Presidents  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Francis  M.  Lyman,  John  Henry  Smith,  and 
others  of  my  near  and  dear  associates  have  given  me  a  father's  love  and 
filled  the  place  in  my  affections  as  completely  as  men  not  one's  father 
could  possibly  do. 

Never  in  my  life  have  I  listened  to  more  inspiring  words  than  those 
at  the  funeral  of  my  dear  departed  mother  and  at  the  funeral  of  my 
dear  brother,  Joseph  Hyrum,  which  were  spoken  by  President  Smith. 

1  am  thankful  beyond  any  power  to  tell  for  the  inspiration  to  do 
my  full  duty  in  the  battle  of  life  which  has  come  to  me  from  the  example 
and  loving  teachings  of  your  beloved  father  and  husband. 

Flowers  fade  in  a  day,  and  so  I  shall  send  each  of  you  for  Gusta 
and  myself  in  loving  remembrance  of  your  dear  departed  husband  and 
father  the  book  "Their  Yesterdays."    *  *  I  send  this  book  for  the  reason 

*See  this  Conference  Report,  p.  14. 
tSee  this  Conference  Report,  p.  14. 
**See  this  Conference  Report,  p.  15. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


13 


that  when  I  read  it,  March  20th,  1914,  I  marked  one  of  the  passages  which 
seemed  to  me  at  the  time  I  read  the  book  to  be  inspirational.  It  is  on 
pages  228-9.  I  wrote  in  my  book  the  sentiments  of  my  heart  at  the 
time  regarding  President  Smith  in  connection  with  the  words  on  those 
pages.  What  I  wrote  was  as  follows :  "More  than  any  man  I  have 
ever  known,  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  has  done  this.  God  bless  him 
forever,  and  his  posterity  after  him.  The  fact  that  he  is  the  Prophet  of 
•\  God  today  is  a  great  testimony  to  me  of  the  divinity  of  'Mormonism'  so 
called." 

Little  did  I  think  when  I  wrote  these  words  that  he  would  have  de- 
parted this  life  by  now. 

One  of  the  most  sincere  and  earnest  prayers  of  my  heart  has  been 
that  President  Smith  should  live  to  celebrate  the  one  hundredth  anniver- 
sary of  the  birth  of  the  Church.  I  prayed  for  this  some  months  ago  at 
the  close  of  a  Temple  fast  meeting,  and  the  Lord  so  abundantly  blessed 
me  that  I  felt  my  prayer  would  be  answered,  and  I  sat  down  weeping  for 
joy. 

I  could  go  on  writing  for  hours,  but  I  will  close  by  sending  my  as- 
surance and  that  of  Sister  Grant  of  our  profound  sympathy,  and  our 
most  earnest  prayer  for  God  to  comfort  and  bless  your  sorrowing  hearts. 
President  Smith  sealed  us  as  husband  and  wife  for  time  and  all  eternity, 
and  Gusta  shares  in  all  the  expressions  of  love  for  him  and  admiration  of 
his  character  in  this  letter.  Again,  may  God  bless  you  and  your  loved 
ones  now  and  forever. 

Your  affectionate  brother, 

(Signed)  Heber  J.  Grant. 

At  the  grave  of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  I  read  a  poem  entitled 
'"A  Real  Man"*  and  I  expressed  there  the  hope  that  I  misrht  live  to  be  like 
Joseph  F.  Smith.  I  read  at  the  grave  the  poem  by  Eliza  R.  Snow,  written 
for  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  "He  was  beloved,  beloved  by  all."t  The 
prayer  that  I  had  in  my  heart,  the  desire  that  I  had  to  follow  in  the  foot- 
steps of  this  man  of  God,  who  presided  over  us  with  so  much  inspiration, 
with  so  much  devotion,  with  so  much  integrity  to  God  and  to  his  fellow- 
men,  the  desire  that  I  might  be  like  him,  is  still  in  my  heart.  I  pray  God 
to  bless  his  memory.  I  pray  God  to  bless  his  wives  and  his  children,  that 
they  may  emulate  his  most  wonderful  and  splendid  example.  I  bear 
witness  to  you  that  from  my  early  childhood  days,  when  I  could  not 
thoroughly  understand  and  comprehend  the  teachings  of  the  gospel,  that 
I  have  had  my  very  being  thrilled,  and  tears  have  rolled  down  my  cheeks, 
under  the  inspiration  of  the  living  God,  as  I  have  listened  to  Toseuh  F. 
Smith  when  preaching  the  gospel.  I  believe  that  Joseph  F.  Smith  and 
his  son  Hyrum  M.  Smith,  more  than  anv  other  men  to  whom  I  have  lis- 
tened, who  were  born  in  the  Church  of  Christ  in  our  day,  were  the  great- 
est preachers  of  righteousness.  I  know  that  whenever  I  heard  that 
Joseph  F.  Smith  was  going  to  speak  in  one  of  the  wards,  that  time  and 
time  again  a.s  a  young  man  I  have  left  my  own  ward  and  gone  to  listen 


*See  this  Conference  Reoort,  p.  IS. 
tSee  ibid,  hymn  303,  p.  16. 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  him,  because  he  always  filled  my  being  and  lifted  me  up  as  I  listened 
to  him  proclaim  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  bear  witness  that  he  was 
one  of  the  greatest  prophets  of  God  that  has  ever  lived;  that  God  was 
with  him  from  the  day  that  he  went  forth  as  a  little  boy  of  fifteen  years 
of  age,  to  proclaim  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands, 
until  the  day  when,  after  giving  sixty-five  years  of  his  life  to  the  work 
of  God,  he  closed  his  earthly  career. 

May  God  bless  each  and  all  of  us  who  have  a  knowledge  of  the  di- 
vinity of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged,  and  may  we  be  faithful  to 
the  end  as  our  prophet  was,  our  beloved  leader  who  has  left  us,  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PROVIDENCE  IS  OVER  ALL. 

When  dark  and  drear  the  skies  appear, 

And  doubt  and  dread  would  thee  enthrall, 
Look  up,  nor  fear,  the  day  is  near, 

And  Providence  is  over  all. 
From  heaven  above,  His  light  and  love, 

God.  giveth  freely  when  we  call. 
Our  utmost  need  is  oft  decreed, 

And  Providence  is  over  all. 

With  jealous  zeal  God  guards  our  weal, 

And  lifts  our  wayward  thoughts  above; 
When  storms  assail  life's  bark  so  frail, 

We  seek  the  haven  of  His  love. 
And  when  our  eyes  transcend  the  skies 

His  gracious  purpose  is  complete, 
No  more  the  night  distracts  our  sight — 

The  clouds  are  all  beneath  our  feet. 

The  direst  woe  that  mortals  know 

Can  ne'er  the  honest  heart  appall 
Who  holds  the  trust — that  God  is  just, 

And  Providence  is  over  all. 
Should  foes  increase  to  mar  our  peace, 

Frustrated  all  their  plans  shall  fall. 
Our  utmost  need  is  oft  decreed, 

And  Providence  is  over  all. 

— Emily  Hill  Woodmansee. 

UPHOLD  THE  RIGHT 

Uphold  the  right,  though  fierce  the  fight, 

And  powerful  the  foe. 
And  freedom's  friend,  her  cause  defend, 

Nor  fear  nor  favor  show. 
No  coward  can  be  called  a  man, 

No  friend  will  friends  betray; 
•Who  will  be  free,  alert  must  be; 

Indifference  will  not  pay. 

Note  how  they  toil  whose  aim  is  spoil,  . 

Who  plundering  plots  devise; 
Yet  time  will  teach  that  fools  o'erreach 

The  mark  and  lose  the  prize. 
Can  justice  deign  to  wrong  maintain, 

Whoever  wills  it  so? 
Can  honor  mate  with  treacherous  hate? 

Can  figs  on  thistles  grow? 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


15 


Dare  to  be  true,  and  hopeful,  too; 

Be  watchful,  brave  and  shrewd. 
Weigh  every  act;  be  wise,  in  fact, 

To  serve  the  general  good. 
Nor  basely  yield,  nor  quit  the  field — 

Important  is  the  fray; 
Scorn  to  recede,  there  is  no  need 

To  give  our  rights  away. 

Left-handed  fraud  let  those  applaud 

Who  would  by  fraud  prevail: 
In  freedom's  name,  contest  their  claim, 

Use  no  such  word  as  fail; 
Honor  we  must  each  sacred  trust, 

And  rightful  zeal  display; 
Our  part  fulfill,  then  come  what  will, 

High  heaven  will  clear  the  way. 

— Emily  Hill  Woodmansee. 

FROM  "THEIR  YESTERDAYS." 

'•'If  the  men  of  a  race  will  perfect  the  manhood  strength  of  the  race;  if 
they  will  exalt  their  manhood  power;  if  they  will  fulfill  the  mission  of  life  by 
perfecting  and  producing  ever  more  perfect  lives;  if  they  will  endeavor  to  con- 
tribute to  the  ages  to  come  stronger,  better,  men  than  themselves;  why,  the 
work  of  the  world  will  be  done  even  as  the  plant  produces  its  flowers  and  fruit, 
the  work  of  the  world  will  be  done.  In  the  exaltation  of  Life  is  the  remedy 
for  the  evils  that  threaten  the  race.  The  reformations  that  men  are  always  at- 
tempting in  the  social,  religious,  political,  and  industrial  world  are  bu-t  at- 
tempts to  change  the  flavor  or  quality  of  the  fruit  when  it  is  ripening  on  the 
tree.  The  true  remedy  lies  in  the  life  of  the  tree;  in  the  soil  from  which  it 
springs;  in  the  source  from  which  the  fruit  derives  its  quality  and  flavor.  In 
the  appreciation  of  Life,  in  the  passion  of  Life,  in  the  production  of  Life,  in 
the  perfection  of  Life,  in  the  exaltation  of  Life,  is  the  salvation  of  human  kind. 
For  this,  and  this  alone,  man  has  right  to  live — has  right  to  his  place  and  part 
in  Life."— Harold  Bell  Wright. 

A  REAL  MAN. 

Men  are  of  two  kinds,  and  he 
Was  of  the  kind  I'd  like  to  be. 
Some  preach  their  virtues,  and  a  few 
Express  their  lives  by  what  they  do. 
That  sort  was  he.    No  flowery  phrase 
Or  glibly  spoken  words  of  praise 
Won  friends  for  him.    He  wasn't  cheap 
Or  shallow,  but  his  course  ran  deep, 
And  it  was  pure.    You  know  the  kind. 
Not  many  in  a  life  you  find, 
Whose  deeds  outrun  their  words  so  far 
That  more  than  what  they  seem  they  arc. 

There  are  two  kinds  of  lies  as  well:- 

The  kind  you  live,  the  ones  you  tell. 

Back  through  his  years  from  age  to  youth 

He  never  acted  one  untruth. 

Out  in  the  open  light  he  fought 

And  didn't  care  what  others  thought 

Nor  what  they  said  about  his  fight 

If  he  believed  that  he  was  right. 

The  only  deeds  he  ever  hid 

Were  acts  of  kindness  that  he  did. 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


i        What  speech  he  had  was  plain  and  blunt. 
His  was  an  unembellished  front. 
Yet  children  loved  him;  babe  and  boy 
Played  with  the  strength  he  could  employ, 
Without  one  fear,  and  they  are  fleet 
To  sense  injustice  and  deceit. 
No  back  door  gossio  linked  his  name 
tWith  any  shady  tale  of  shame. 
He  did  not  have  to  compromise 
With  evil-doers,  shrewd  and  wise, 
And  let  them  ply  their  vicious  trade 
Because  of  some  past  escapade. 

Men  are  of  two  kinds,  and  he 

Was  of  the  kind  I'd  like  to  be. 

No  door  at  which  he  ever  knocked 

Against  his  manly  form  was  locked; 

If  ever  man  on  earth  was  free 

And  independent,  it  was  he. 

No  broken  pledge  lost  him  respect, 

He  met  all  men  with  head  erect; 

And  when  he  passed  I  think  there  went 

A  soul  to  yonder  firmament 

So  white,  so  splendid  and  so  fine 

It  came  complete  to  God's  design. 

Edgar  A.  Guest. 

HYMN  NO.  303. 

Thou  dost  not  weep  to  weep  alone; 

The  broad  bereavement  seems  to  fall 
Unheeded  and  unfelt  by  none, 

He  was  beloved,  beloved  by  all. 

But  lo!  what  joy  salutes  our  grief! 

Bright  rainbows  crown  the  tearful  gloom, 
Hope,  hope  eternal,  brings  relief; 

Faith  sounds  a  triumph  o'er  the  tomb. 

It  soothes  our  sorrow,  says  to  thee, 
The  Lord  in  chastening  comes  to  bless: 

God  is  thy  God,  and  He  will  be 
A  father  to  the  fatherless. 

'Tis  well  with  the  departed  one; 

His  heaven-lit  lamp  was  shining  bright, 
And  when  his  mortal  day  went  down, 

His  spirit  fled  where  reigns  no  night. 

'Tis  meet  to  die  as  he  has  died, 

He  smiled  amid  death's  conquered  gloom, 

While  angels  waited  by  his  side, 
To  bear  a  kindred  spirit  home. 

Vain  are  the  trophies. wealth  can  give! 

His  memory  needs  no  sculptor's  art; 
He's  left  a  name — his  virtues  live, 

'Graved  on  the  tablets  of  the  heart. — Eliza  R.  Snow. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 

"How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the  Lord, 
Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  his  excellent  word." 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


17 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND 

I  rejoice  this  morning  in  seeing  this  great  assemblage  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  and  so  many  of  the  priesthood  represented  as  are  before  me 
and  around  me  here.  What  a  marvelous  work  this  is !  Seeing  the  vot- 
ing by  quorums  of  the  priesthood,  I  thought  of  the  wonderful  organiza- 
tion of  the  priesthood. 

god's  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder. 

It  brought  to  my  mind  the  revelation  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  long  before  there  was  any  one  in  the  Church,  in  section  four  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  in  which  the  Lord  said  he  was  about  to 
bring  forth  a  marvelous  and  wonderful  work.  This  has  indeed  been 
accomplished.  The  Prophet  Joseph  was  indeed  a  man  and  prophet  of 
God,  and  proved  this  both  by  his  prophecies,  by  his  teachings  and  by  his 
life,  and  his  successors  followed  him  with  great  devotion  to  this  great 
work. 

THE  COURAGE  OF  BRIGHAM  YOUNG. 

Today,  the  first  of  June,  is  the  anniversary  of  the  birth  of  Presi- 
dent Brigham  Young.  The  Lord  had  a  great  work  for  him.  He  was 
indeed  a  Moses  to  lead  his  people  away  from  persecution  and  oppression, 
into  the  wilderness.  What  sublime  faith  those  men,  the  pioneers,  showed 
in  following  him !  They  did  not  know  where  they  were  going.  They  did 
not  know  what  was  before  them,  but  they  had  confidence  in  their  leader, 
and  knowing  he  was  appointed  of  God  to  lead  them,  they  followed  him. 

When  they  entered  these  valleys  the  prospect  was  not  very  encour- 
aging, and  several  of  them  thought  it  was  better  to  go  on  to  Oregon  or 
California,  or  to  places  where  there  were  already  cultivated  lands  and  an 
assurance  that  people  were  able  to  make  a  living.  But  their  misgivings 
did  not  influence  President  Young,  for  he  knew  that  this  was  the  place ; 
he  said  so,  and  on  the  spot  where  the  temple  stands  today,  he  said,  "Here 
we  will  erect  a  temple  to  our  God."  President  Brigham  Young  proved 
to  be  a  courageous  man.  He  was  not  afraid  of  the  outlook.  The  Lord 
had  pointed  out  to  him  that  this  would  be  the  gathering  place  of  the 
Saints. 

TRIBUTE  TO  PRESIDENT  JOSEPH   F.  SMITH. 

We  have  heard  President  Grant  speak  about  Brother  John  Taylor, 
about  Brother  Woodruff,  and  Brother  Lorenzo  Snow,  and  we  have  for 
some  time  looked  forward  to  a  day  on  which  speeches  should  be  made  in 
memory  of  the  prophet  Joseph  F.  Smith.  He  was  indeed  loved  by  all. 
He  was  a  great  man.  He  was  a  great  preacher  of  righteousness.  How 
often  have  I  sat  listening  to  his  voice  and  rejoiced  in  the  truths  that  he 
put  forth,  the  encouraging  words  he  spoke*  and  the  words  of  warning  he 
gave  unto  the  people!  Take  a  view  of  his  life.  God  had  given  him  a 
strong  and  abiding  faith.  He  never  wavered.  As  early  as  fifteen  years 
he  was  called  to  go  to  a  land  where  much  of  the  blood  of  Israel  was 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


found.  The  four  years  he  spent  there  were  not  years  perhaps  like  many 
of  us  would  have  liked,  but  he  looked  upon  them  with  joy  and  thank- 
fulness, for  he  loved  the  people  among  whom  he  labored.  They  loved 
him,  and  though  they  were  poor  and  he  was  poor  also,  still  those  years 
were  blessed  years  to  him  and  to  that  people. 

President  Smith  was  a  dutiful  child  to  his  mother.  He  loved  her 
with  the  greatest  love.  He  often  alluded  to  her  and  to  the  inestimable 
blessing  that  she  had  been  to  him.  She  taught  him  to  read,  she  helped 
him  in  his  studies,  and  her  memory  was  ever  kept  by  him  in  the  deepest 
reverence.  He  liked  to  talk  about  her,  and  as  he  was  a  dutiful  and  lov- 
ing child  himself,  when  he  had  children  he  was  a  loving  father  and  a 
loving  husband.  He  loved  the  little  ones,  even  those  not  belonging 
to  his  family,  and  I  have  noticed  how  little  children  would  be  drawn  to 
him  even  if  they  were  perfect  .strangers.  There  was  an  atmosphere 
about  him  that  gave  them  confidence,  so  that  they  were  not  afraid  to 
ccme  and  have  him  take  them  up  in  his  arms. 

I  have  walked  with  him  in  the  street  and  nearly  every  few  steps 
he  would  meet  acquaintances  and  have  to  stop  and  shake  hands  with 
them.  He  was  loved  by  those  who  knew  him.  He  never  forgot  his 
friends,  even  if  he  had  not  seen  them  for  many  years.  His  life  was 
an  exemplar)"  one. 

Ever  since  I  remember  anything  about  him  he  was  to  me  the  type 
of  a  true  Latter-day  Saint ;  and  when  I  got  more  intimately  connected 
with  him  I  saw,  every  day,  more  and  more  evidence  of  his  being  just 
what  I  had  imagined  him  to  be.  He  was  a  true  Latter-day  Saint.  He 
loved  the  gospel.  He  lover!  to  bear  his  testimony  that  Jesus  was  the 
Redeemer  and  Savior  of  the  world.  He  bore  testimony  to  the  truth  of 
the  gospel,  and  to  the  divinity  of  the  mission  of  Joseph  Smith,  and  his 
testimony  always  strengthened  the  faith  of  those  who  listened  to  him. 

THE  CHURCH  FREED  OF  DEBT. 

President  Smith  was  a  good  manager  of  the  affairs  of  the  Church. 
When  his  administration  began,  the  Church  was  owing  nearly  a  million 
dollars  of  bonds.  President  Smith  was  a  man  that  did  not  like  to  be  in 
debt,  and  as  he  felt  in  this  regard  himself,  so  he  felt  for  the  Church,  and 
he  put  forth  all  his  energy  that  the  Church  might  get  out  of  the  bond- 
age of  debt.  It  took  about  five  years  to  do  this,  because  so  many  other 
responsibilities  had  to  be  met,  but  I  remember  one  day  in  the  old  office 
building  how  he  rejoiced  when  we  made  a  bon-fire  of  bonds  that  called 
for  a  million  of  dollars,  for  we  felt,  now  is  the  Church  free  from  debt. 

AN  EPOCH  OF  CHURCH  BUILDINGS. 

During  the  administration  of  President  Smith  there  was  an  epoch 
of  building  meetinghouses  and  stake  houses,  ward  tithing  offices,  acad- 
emies and  temples.  More  has  been  done  during  these  years  in  this  re- 
gard than  ever  before,  not  only  at  home,  but  abroad ;  meeting  houses 
have  been  erected  in  the  missions  of  the  United  States,  England,  Scan- 
dinavia, and  on  the  islands  of  the  sea,  and  the  people  rejoice  in  having 
places  of  their  own  where  they  can  go  and  worship  God.    When  we 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


19 


travel  here,  at  home,  we  are  pleased  to  see  these  beautiful  meetinghouses 
that  have  been  erected,  and  very  few  have  been  built  without  help  by  the 
Trustee-in-Trust.    And  the  work  of  building  meetinghouses  continues. 

A  FAITH-PROMOTING  PREACHER  OF  RIGHTEOUSNESS. 

President  Smith  was  a  spiritual-minded  man,  and  he  was  well 
versed  in  all  things  pertaining  to  the  priesthood,  to  temple  work  and  to 
the  different  activities  of  the  Church.  Before  I  came  into  the  presidency 
I  have  often  gone  to  him  and  asked  for  his  advice  and  counsel,  and  I 
always  found  it  to  be  the  very  best  that  could  be  given ;  and  when  I  was 
called  to  be  his  counselor  I  felt  indeed  humble,  and  wondered  how  I  could 
perform  such  an  office  to  a  man  like  him.  During  the  seventeen  years 
that  we  sat  at  the  council  table  together,  I  admired  the  man  more  and 
more.  I  saw  how  true  he  was  to  his  professions,  how  true  he  was  to 
the  interests  of  the  Church,  how  true  to  his  brethren  and  the  Saints  in 
general. 

When  a  case  came  before  him  to  judge,  he  and  his  counselors 
would  talk  it  over  and  give  it  their  careful  consideration  until  they  came 
to  the  same  conclusion.  We  felt  indeed  that  he  was  a  man  of  God,  a  man 
raised  up  to  perform  a  wonderful  work.  We  all  miss  Brother  Joseph  F. 
Smith.  We  loved  him.  We  knew  that  he  was  a  fearless  man.  When  it 
came  to  anything  pertaining  to  the  Church,  whatever  he  thought  was 
for  the  best  good  of  the  work,  he  was  not  afraid  to  undertake  it.  In  re- 
flecting upon  his  life,  we  see  many  things  that  are  faith-promoting,  and 
showing  that  the  Lord's  hand  was  with  him,  protecting  him  and  giving 
him  success  in  his  labors. 

May  the  Lord  bless  his  families  and  his  children,  that  they  may 
emulate  the  noble  example  that  he  has  set  them,  and  may  we  all,  brethren 
and  sisters,  remember  what  he  has  done,  may  his  memory  remain  green 
in  bur  minds,  and  may  we  carry  out  that  which  he  worked  for  so  earn- 
estly all  his  life. 

PRESIDENT   HEBER  J.   GRANT   WILL  KEEP   HIS  PLEDGES. 

President  Grant  has  spoken  to  us  this  morning.  He  has  told  us 
what  he  intends  to  do,  and  I  know  he  will  carry  it  out,  because  he  has 
always  kept  the  pledges  he  has  made;  so  I  do  not  think  that  now,  as 
president  of  the  Church,  he  will  go  back  upon  such  conduct.  The  Lord 
will  bless  him.  There  is  a  great  work  for  him  to  do,  to  which  the  Lord 
has  called  him,  and  God  will  give  him  wisdom  and  strength  to  accom*. 
plish  it  and  enable  him  to  carry  the  great  responsibility  that  the  office  im- 
poses upon  him. 

May  the  Lord  bless  President  Grant,  that  he  may  have  joy  in  his 
labor,  that  his  administration  may  be  a  prosperous  one  for  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang: 
"Come  Unto  Me." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced 


by  Patriarch  George  L.  Farrell,  of 
the  Cache  Stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  "until  (2 
o'clock  p.  m. 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


OVERFLOW  MEETING. 

An  overflow  meeting  was  held 
in  the  Assembly  Hall,  Sunday 
morning,  June  1,  10:45  o'clock,  pre- 
sided over  by  President  Seymour  B. 
Young,  of  the  First  Council  of  Sev- 
enty. 

The  music  was  furnished  by  the 
Latter-day  Saints  University  stu- 
dents choir,  under  the  direction  of 
B.  Cecil  Gates. 

The  choir  and'  congregation  sang : 
''How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints 

of  the  Lord, 
Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  his  excel- 
lent word." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Levi 
Edgar  Young  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy. 

The  choir  sang:  "I  put  my  trust 
in  thee." 

ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG 

(Of  the   First   Council  of  Seventy.) 

My  brethren,  sisters,  friends,  and 
strangers — We  bid  you  all  welcome 
here  to  our  general  conference.  We 
hail  this  as.  a  very  auspicious  day 
for  the  renewal  of  the  gatherings  of 
our  annual  conference,  which  was 
postponed  on  account  of  conditions 
that  were  very  unpropitious  dur- 
ing the  regularly  appointed  time, 
6th  of  April,  last. 

This  is  the  anniversary  of  the 
birthday  of  President  Brigham 
Young,  the  great  pioneer  of  this 
western  country.  Hence  I  consider 
this  a  very  proper  day  for  holding 
our  deferred  general  annual  confer- 
ence. In  the  large  Tabernacle,  we 
have  just  completed  the  grand  cere- 
mony of  sustaining  by  the  votes  of 
the  presiding  quorums  of  the  priest- 
hood the  general  authorities  of  the 
Church.  They  were  sustained  by  a 
rising  vote  of  the  quorums  of  the 
priesthood,  separated  and  seated  in 


different  portions  of  the  tabernacle ; 
then  followed  the  sustaining  vote  of 
the  entire  congregation. 

It  is  suggested  that  we  now  give 
you  the  same  privilege,  of  rising 
when  you  cast  your  vote  sustaining 
the  general  authorities  of  the 
Church.  This  is  the  89th  annual 
conference  of  the  Church. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain 
Heber  J.  Grant  as  Prophet,  Seer 
and  Revelator,  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

All  arise,  and  all  who  favor  this 
proposition  will  signify  it  by  raising 
the  right  hand.  (Unanimous  vote.) 

The  other  general  authorities  of 
the  Church  were  then  presented  and 
sustained  in  like  manner,  and  as 
presented  in  the  assembly  at  the 
Tabernacle. 

ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

(Of  the   First   Council   of  Seventy.) 

When  the  king  of  England  dies,  a 
herald  is  sent  out  to  make  the  an- 
nouncement, which  he  does  in  this 
form :  "The  King  is  dead.  Long 
live  the  King."  No  sooner  is  the  an- 
nouncement made  that  the  king  is 
dead  than  it  is  followed  by  the  other 
sentence,  Long  live  the  king.  It  is 
an  announcement  which  means  that 
though  the  king  has  just  died,  yet 
England  has  not  been  an  instant 
without  a  ruler.  In  one  breath  the 
passing  of  one  monarch  is  made 
known,  and  the  all  hail  given  to  his 
immediate  successor.  That  is  the 
theory  of  the  British  constitution, 
that  while  kings  may  come  and  go, 
the  British  sovereign  always  is,  and 
there  is  no  lapse  in  succession  to  the 
throne.  In  some  such  way  that  is 
true  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  also.  From  the 
time  it  was  organized  by  divine  ap- 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS. 


21 


pointment  of  God  there  has  never 
been  a  moment  when  there  has  not 
been  a  President  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  in  the  earth.  And  al- 
though presidents  may  come  and  go 
in  the  future,  my  faith  is  that  there 
will  never  be  a  time  when  there  is 
not  an  immediate  successor  in  the 
presidency.  The  constitution  of  the 
Church  makes  this  provision. 

The  presiding  authority  in  the 
Church  consists  of  three  high 
priests,  who  constitute  the  presi- 
dency of  the  high  priesthood  of  the 
Church,  and  also  the  presidency  of 
the  Church.  They  are  chosen,  up- 
held and  sustained  by  the  priest- 
hood of  the  Church,  and  also  by  all 
the  congregations  of  the  Church, 
for  all  things  must  be  done  by  com- 
mon consent  in  the  Church,  and  no 
officer  in  the  Church;  from  the  pres- 
idency thereof  down  to  the  humblest 
branch  president  in  the  Church  can 
hold  his  place  and  exercise  the  func- 
tion of  his  office  otherwise  than  by 
the  consent  of  the  body  of  people 
over  whom  he  is  called  to  preside. 
There  is  none  exempt  from  this 
constitutional  regulation  of  the 
Church.  It  was  so  from  the  beginr 
ning;  for  although  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith  had  received  the  keys 
of  the  holy  priesthood,  and  God  had 
communicated  to  him  his  mind  and 
his  will,  yet  when  it  came  to  the 
organization  of  the  Church,  and  the 
time  had  arrived  for  him  to  exercise 
the  authority  which  God  had  given 
him  over  others,  he  was  informed 
that  he  must  call  the  brethren  and 
sisters  together  who  had  been  bap- 
tized, and  obtain  their  consent  to 
organize  the  Church.  This  great 
question  was  submitted  to  that  little 
band  of  people,  the  organization  be- 
ing effected,  of  course,  by  six  mem- 
bers in  order  to  comply  with  the 
law  of  the  State  of  New  York  re- 


specting religious  organizations. 
The  question  was  submitted  to 
them,  and  they  voted  upon  it,  and 
they  sustained  Joseph  Smith  as  the 
first  elder  and  Oliver  Cowdery  as 
the  second  elder  of  the  Church,  and 
thus  this  Church  by  divine  appoint- 
ment of  officers  and  their  being  sus- 
tained by  the  membership  of  the 
Church,  was  brought  into  existence 
— this  great  institution  now  known 
as  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  Today  we  are 
repeating  the  things  that  were  done 
from  the  commencement,  and  are 
privileged  to  exercise  the  same 
right  in  saying  who  it  is  that  we  will 
accept  from  our  hearts  to  be  the 
general  authorities  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

We  stand  at  the  point  where  one 
presidency  leaves  us,  and  another  is 
inaugurated.  I  think  it  is  fitting 
that  we  should  not  only  have  our 
minds  drawn  out  towards  the  man 
who  is  taking  on  new  responsibili- 
ties, viz.,  President  Heber  J.  Grant, 
but  that  we  should  also  remember 
in  loving  kindness  the  faithful  la- 
bors of  him  who,  so  short  a  time 
ago,  was  the  President,  and  very 
worthily  the  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  viz.,  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith.  Those  of  us  who  were 
in  close  association  with  him  and 
who  knew  him  and  worked  with 
him,  cannot,  I  think,  look  upon  this 
inauguration  of  a  new  president 
without  calling  to  mind  the  devo- 
tion, the  fidelity,  and  the  splendid 
administrative  abilities  of  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  son  of  Hyrum  Smith,  the 
Patriarch  of  the  Church,  the  second 
presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church, 
succeeding  the  father  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  who  was  the  first 
presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church. 
This  man  Hyrum  Smith  was  a  man 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE.  \ 


upon  whom  the  Lord  conferred  very 
splendid  and  very  great  blessings, 
especially  in  regard  to  his  posterity. 
Blessings  and  promises  that  had 
been  previously  pronounced  upon 
the  head  of  Oliver  Cowdery  were 
also  gathered  up  and  placed  upon 
the  head  of  Hyrum  Smith  and  his 
posterity  after  him.  And  truly  the 
blessing  has  been  realized  in  the 
posterity  of  Hyrum  Smith,  for  I 
think  there  is  no  other  man  in  the 
Church  from  the  beginning  until 
now  who  has  been  more  abundantly 
blessed  in  his  posterity  than  has 
Hyrum  Smith.  He  was  blessed  in 
his  two  sons,  the  late  Patriarch  John 
Smith,  who  for  so  many  years  was 
a  prominent  figure  in  our  commu- 
nity, and  known  throughout  the 
Church,  many  thousands  of  the 
Saints  receiving  patriarchal  bless- 
ings under  his  hands.  Hyrum 
Smith  was  likewise  blessed,  and 
splendidly  blessed,  in  the  person  of 
his  great  son  Joseph  F.  Smith,  who 
for  so  many  years  devoted  himself 
to  the  work  of  the  ministry  in  the 
days  of  his  youth,  and  finally  was 
brought  into  the  quorum  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles,  while  yet  a  young 
man,  which  position  he  held  for 
many  years.  At  the  inauguration  of 
the  administration  of  President 
John  Taylor  he  became  a  counselor 
to  President  Taylor.  He  sustained 
the  same  position  to  President  Wil- 
ford  Woodruff,  and  then  to  Presi- 
dent Lorenzo  Snow ;  and  finally  he 
came  to  the  presidency  himself,  and 
held  that  position  for  more  than  sev- 
enteen years.  And  under  his  admin- 
istration the  Church  was  truly  and 
greatly  hlessed,  [blessed  not  only 
by  the  wisdom  that  was  manifest- 
ed in  his  counsels,  but  also  blessed 
by  the  example  of  his  righteous  life. 
So  that  when  he  passed  away  he 
passed  away  in  honor  and  much  be- 


loved by  the  people.  The  blessing 
pronounced  upon  the  head  of  Hy- 
rum Smith  is  not  only  manifested  in 
the  person  of  John  Smith,  the  Pa- 
triarch, and  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  but  from  the  loins  of  Presi- 
dent Smith  there  came  forth  men 
and  women  who  were  highly  hon- 
ored in  the  community,  and  who 
have  found  place  for  ministry  in  the 
Church.  Two  of  his  sons  have  been 
brought  into  the  apos'tolate  of  the 
Church,  faithful  men.  One  of  them, 
Elder  Hyrum  M.  Smith,  as  you  of 
course  recall,  passing  away  about 
a  year  or  more  ago;  but  he  left  a 
name  and  a  fame  that  is  honored  in 
Israel.  I  am  glad  to  say  that  Presi- 
dent Smith  is  still  honored  by  one  of 
his  sons  being  sustained  this  day  as 
one  of  the  Twelve  Apostles.  Presi- 
dent Smith, then,  was  honored  in  his 
life;  and  worthily  represented  the 
second  Presiding  Patriarch  in  the 
Church ;  and  this  succession  of 
righteous  men  in  the  family  of  Hy- 
rum Smith  shows  that  the  blessings 
of  the  Lord  pronounced  upon  the 
heads  of  his  servants  are  not  mere 
words,  but  represent  substance,  rep- 
resent realities.  So  God  has  mag- 
nified this  family  in  the  Church, 
and  has  especially  honored  this 
branch  of  it  as  he  promised  to  do  in 
one  of  the  revelations  now  extant 
in  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  would 
not  be  proper  for  me  to  occupy  fur- 
ther of  your  time,  but  I  just  wanted 
to  call  your  attention  to  these  few 
things  in  relation  to  this  day  in  re- 
gard to  the  incoming  administra- 
tion by  your  legally  taken  votes,  ac- 
cording to  the  constitution  of  the 
Church  which  God  has  established. 
Of  course,  however,  Heber  J.  Grant 
has  been  the  president  in  reality 
from  the  time  that  President  Smith 


/.  GOLDEN 

passed  away,  for  when  the  first  pre- 
siding quorum  of  the  Church  for 
any  cause  is  disrupted  and  goes  out 
of  existence,  the  man  holding  the 
authority  stands  in  the  second 
quorum,  of  the  Church,  viz.,  the 
President  of  the  quorum  of  the 
Twelve,  and  the  authority  to  act  is 
his  until  the  Church  can  be  assem- 
bled, as  we  are  now  assembled,  and 
proceed  with  the  organization  as  it 
has  been  done  toda>. 

I  congratulate  the  Church  upon 
the  noble  men  who  have  become 
God's  representatives  as  the  presi- 
dency of  his  Church  in  this  dispen- 
sation. We  this  day  inaugurate  the 
seventh  president  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints; 
they  represent  a  line  of  men  who 
for  simplicity  of  life  and  character, 
for  greatness  of  soul,  for  bigness  of 
faith,  for  fidelity  to  the  trust  which 
God  and  the  Church  imposed  in 
them,  stand  unparalleled  in  the  re- 
ligious history  of  the  world.  Thank 
God,  not  only  for  a  prophet,  but  for 
all  our  prophets,  the  presidents  of 
the  Church,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

As  stated,  by  President  Seymour 
B.  Young,  it  is  desired  that  the 
First  Council  of  the  Seventy 
speak  in  memory  of  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith.  I  have  known 
President  Smith  from  my  early 
youth,  and  have  listened  to  his 
teachings,  as  an  apostle  and  as  the 
president  of  the  Church  during  the 
greater  part  of  my  life. 

I  remember,  in  the  early  .days  of 
my  youth,  of  "  the  people  of  this 
Church  looking  forward  hopefully 
when  the  time  should  come  that  the 
■prophecy  made  by  the  servants  of 
God  would  be  fulfilled,  viz:  that 


KIMBALL.  23 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  would 
become  the  President  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  can  think  of  no  man  who 
has  been  president  of  the  Church, 
who  has  had  greater  opportunities 
and  advantages  than  he  has  had. 
President  Smith  was  chosen  and 
ordained  an  apostle  in  his  youth. 
He  was  favored,  as  I  remember  it, 
by  being  sent  on  a  mission  to  the 
Hawaiian  Islands,  when  he  was  15 
years  old.  He  was  hedged  about 
and  privileged  in  associating  with 
great  men,  and  his  life  and  labors 
were  in  the  service  of  the  Lord,  as 
a  special  witness  and  an  apostle  of 
Jesus  Christ.  President  Smith  was 
trained,  instructed,  and  prepared 
for  this  great  appointment  as 
prophet,  seer  and  revelator  by  the 
greatest  men  who  ever  lived,  in  my 
judgment,  in  the  history  of  the 
world. 

I  am  proud  of  the  fact  that  I  am 
a  natural  born  heir,  and  was  given 
birth  in  this  land  of  liberty  and 
freedom.  We  are  not  .called  upon 
to  cry  out,  "All  hail  to  the  king." 
I  thank  God,  I  belong  to  a  Church 
which  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  It  does  not 
belong  to  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  and  he  made  no  such  claim, 
but  it  belongs  to  God  the  Father, 
and  to  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ.  There 
are  no  such  things  as  earthly  kings 
in  Christ's  Church.  There  never 
will  be  any  king-men  in  Christ's 
Church.  For  when  his  disciples 
came  to  him,  he  tried  to  teach  them 
the  great  lesson :  whosoever  will  be 
greatest  among  you,  let  him  be 
servant  of  all ;  and  when  these  same 
apostles  asked  the  Savior,  "Who  is 
the  greatest  in  the  kingdom  of 
heaven?"  he  called  a  little  child  to 
him  and  said :  "Except  ye  be  con- 
verted, and  become  as  little  chil- 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


dren  ye  shall  not  enter  into  the 
kingdom  of  heaven."  Joseph  F. 
Smith  was  like  that.  He  was  a 
man  of  great  integrity.  Few  men 
had  greater  integrity  or  greater 
faith.  He  loved  God  with  all  his 
heart,  with  all  his  soul,  and  with 
all  his  might  and  that  is  all  a  man 
can  do. 

Time  will  not  permit  me  to  say 
more.  I  have  always  honored  and 
respected  and  sustained  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  I  am  glad  of 
it.  But  I  discovered,  in  the  time 
that  I  have  labored  in  the  Church, 
that  he  was  human  just  like  the  rest 
of  us.  I  want  to  learn  the  lesson, 
Cursed  be  the  men  who  trust  in 
man.  You  want  to  learn  that  les- 
son, if  you  are  to  be  tested  and  meet 
difficulties,  and  you  will  not  stumble 
and  lose  the  faith.  I  place  my  trust 
in  God,  the  eternal  Father,  and  it 
is  my  business  to  get  a  clear  and 
true  conception  of  God,  and  of 
Jesus  Christ,  ■  and  to  realize  that 
these  men  whom  we  have  sustained 
are  servants  of  the  people :  they  are 
servants  of  God,  and  we  sustain 
them,  and  we  uphold  them.  If 
there  were  no  people,  there  would 
be  no  need  of  a  Church,  so  that  we 
all  say — at  least  I  do — God  save 
the  people.    God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

It  is  only  natural  that  I  should 
greatly  love  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith.  I  imbibed  it  from  my  father. 
He  was  very  closely  associated  with 
my  father,  and  my  father  with  him 
in  the  ministry,  in  laboring  in  the 
house  of  the  Lord  and  otherwise  in 
the  building  up  of  the  Church  and 
kingdom  of  God  on  the  earth. 
From  my  earliest,  boyhood  I  have 
always  loved  Joseph  F.  Smith,  and 


when  his  name  was  first  presented 
no  one  voted  more  neartily  than  I 
did  to  sustain  him  as  the  prophet^ 
seer  and  revelator  of  the  Church 
and  the  president  of  it  in  all  the 
world.  And  throughout  my  life  I 
have  been  more  or  less  familiar 
with  his  labors  and  ministry.  But 
I  will  not  undertake,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  in  the  few  moments 
that  are  allotted  to  me  to  speak  of 
his  great  work  among  the  children 
of  men,  but  I  think  more  of  those 
particular  labors  that  have  had  a 
direct  influence  and  bearing  upon 
me  and  upon  my  life,  for  I  can 
truly  say  that  there  is  no  man  in 
the  Church  that  has  exerted  a 
greater  and  more  powerful  influ- 
ence over  me  in  my  life  than  Joseph 
F.  Smith.  No  man  has  so  moved 
me  from  the  bottom  of  my  soul  as 
he  has  done.  Tears'  have  welled 
up  in  my  eyes,  and  my  heart  has 
been  filled  with  joy  and  with  the 
testimony  of  the  truth  under  the 
influence  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
as  it  has  been  manifest  in  this  great 
man.  I  have  listened  to  him  when 
it  seemed  to  me  that  God  was 
speaking  to  me  direct,  and_tfie 
words  he  spoke  sank  so  deeply  in- 
to my  heart  that  I  have  wondered 
why  it  was  that  all  who  heard  him 
upon  that  occasion  did  not  feel  and 
know  that  the  gospel  is  true,  that 
they  who  heard  it  as  it  was  pro- 
claimed by  this  great  man  and  re- 
stored from  heaven  through  the  in- 
strumentality of  his  illustrious 
uncle,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
were  not  thoroughly  converted  and 
convinced  as  to  the  truth  of  it.  The 
occasion  to  which  I  now  refer  was 
a  funeral  service  held  in  honor  of 
a  dearly  loved  sister  of  mine,  Em- 
ma Wells,  who  died  in  the  year, 
1877.  He  was  the  speaker  upon  that 
occasion.  He  spoke  forth  the  words 


ELDER  JOSEPH 

of  eternal  life.  He  explained  the 
srospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
There  were  many  there,  kindred 
and  friends  and  outsiders,  non- 
members  of  the  Church,  a  goodly 
number;  and  I  marveled  that  any 
one  could  go  from  that  service 
without  being  convinced  in  their 
souls  that  he  was  a  servant  of  God, 
and  that  he  spoke  the  truth  as  it 
had  been  revealed  from  heaven.  It 
was  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation, 
the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
as  it  has  been  restored  in  its  purity. 
Upon  various  occasions  he  has  thus 
filled  my  soul  with  the  testimony 
of  the  truth  and  has  exerted  a 
power  and  influence  over  me  which 
I  hope  will  always  remain  with  me. 

When  I  think  of  the  influence  his 
ministry  has  had  upon  me  and  up- 
on my  life,  and  then  contemplate 
his  extensive  labors  in  this  com- 
munity, I  have  wondered  how  many 
thousands  have  been  thus  filled  with 
joy  and  with  the  testimony  of  the 
truth.  And  if  it  be  true  that  when 
a  man  labors  all  his  life  and  suc- 
ceeds in  saving  but  one  soul,  great 
will  be  his  ioy  with  that  soul  in  the 
kingdom  of  our  Father,  then  what 
must  be  in  store  for  this  great  man 
as  he  goes  back  into  the  kingdom 
of  his  Father,  having  labored 
nearly  all  his  life  in  the  ministry 
and  brought  so  many  souls  unto  the 
knowledge  of  the  truth.  I  praise 
God  for  having  sent  such  a  noble 
spirit  into  the  world.  .  I  thank  him 
for  his  noble  life,  for  his  worthy 
example  in  this  community.  I 
thank  the  Lord  for  his  labors 
among  the  people,  for  great  good 
has  been  the  results.  I  honor  his 
memory  today  and  ioin  my  breth- 
ren in  tribute  to  this  true  servant 
of  God  for  whom  I  have  alwavs 
had  unbounded  love  and  admira- 
tion.   May  his  children,  who  have 


W.  McMURRIN.  25 

been  so  blessed  and  favored  of  the 
Lord  in  being  born  of  such  good- 
ly parents,  continue  to  enjoy  the 
blessings  pronounced  upon  the 
posterity  of  their  martyred  ances- 
tor, Hyrum  Smith,  the  Patriarch, 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

JOS.  W.  McMURRIN 

(Of  the   First   Council   of  Seventy.) 

We  have  but  one  theme,  my 
brethren  and  .sisters,  to  dwell  upon 
this  morning.  We  were  instructed 
by  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  when 
we  were  appointed  to  come  to  this 
meeting,  to  devote  our  time  and 
the  remarks  that  we  made  to  the 
memory  of  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith.  I  don't  know  just  how  my 
fellow  laborers  feel  in  approaching 
a  task  of  this  character.  I  feel  that 
it  is  impossible  for  me  to  say  any- 
thing quite  up  to  the  standard  of 
the  man. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  (n  my  feelings, 
is  one  of  the  greatest  men,  if  not 
the  greatest  man,  with  whom'  T 
have  ever  been  acquainted.  I  have 
never  been  in  his  presence  without 
being  impressed  with  the  feeling 
that  he  was  indeed  a  servant  of  the 
living  God,  and  that  he  was  a 
prophet  of  the  Lord.  Thirty-eight 
years  ago,  when  I  was  laboring  as 
a  boy  missionary  afar  off,  a  brother 
related  to  me  the  prophecy  that  has 
been  referred  to  by  Elder  J.  Gold- 
en Kimball,  that  was  delivered  in 
the  Ogden  tabernacle  forty  or 
fifty  years  ago.  I  do  not  know  just 
how  long  ago.  President  Wood- 
ruff declared  in  that  prophecy  that 
the  time  would  come  when  Joseph 
F.  Smith  would  stand  as  the 
mouthpiece  of  God.  In  making  the 
declaration  he  invited  the  fathers 
and  mothers  in  the  congregation  to 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


write  down  the  prediction,  that 
their  childen  after  the  parents  pres- 
ent were  dead  and  gone,  might 
read  and  know  that  God  had 
spoken  in  relation  to  the  future 
life  of  Joseph  F.  Smith.  We  are 
all  witnesses  to  the  fulfilment  of 
the  inspired  prophecy.  While  lis- 
tening to  what  has  been  said  in  this 
meeting,  I  have  been  impressed 
in  much  the  same  way  as  my 
brother,  Elder  Rulon  S.  Wells,  has 
just  stated.  I  have  often  felt, 
when  listening  to  words  spoken  by 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  that 
the  very  word  of  God  was  being 
declared,  and  that  the  inspiration 
and  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  was 
resting  upon  the  mouthpiece  of 
God  in  a  most  remarkable  and  un- 
usual manner. 

I  had  the  very  great  pleasure, 
just  about  two  years  ago,  of  being 
one  of  a  party  invited  by  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith  to  make  a 
journey  to  St.  George.  The 
brethren  and  sisters  forming  the 
party  visited  one  line  of  settlements 
in  going  to  St.  George,  and  another 
line  of  settlements  in  returning  to 
Salt  Lake  City.  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith  spoke  in  all  of  the  meet- 
ings that  were  held,  both  going  and 
returning,  and  notwithstanding 
the  fact  that  he  was  under  bodily 
ailment  at  the  time,  the  spirit  of 
his  great  calling  rested  upon  him 
most  marvelously,  and  he  ex- 
pounded the  doctrines  of  the  ever- 
lasting srospel  in  very  great  clear- 
ness. The  hearts  of  thousands  of 
people  were  made  glad  through  his 
inspired  teachings  and  testimony. 

I  always  felt  in  his  presence  that 
I  was  indeed  in  the  presence  of 
God's  anointed  servant,  and  always 
rejoiced  in  knowing  that  he  was  a 
man  filled  with  prophetic  power ; 
and,  above  all  else,  that  he  was  a 


man  who  had    consecrated  to  the  » 
very  uttermost  his  time,  and  tal- 
ents, to  the  upbuilding  of  the  king- 
dom of  God. 

I  believe  that  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith  was  just  as  true  to  the 
work  of  God,  just  as  true  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  just  as  true 
to  his  brethren  in  the  holy  priest- 
hood as  any  man  who'  ever  lived. 
I  believe  that  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith  accepted  the  wonderful  mis- 
sion of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and 
understood  that  he  was  to  be  saved 
through  the  atoning  blood  of  the 
Redeemer   of   the   world   by  obe_- 
dience  to  the  doctrines  of  the  gos- 
pel, just  as  fully  and  completely 
as  any  man  that  ever  lived.  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith,  in  my  judg- 
ment,   gave    his    time,    and  his 
thought,  and  his  ability  in  the  most  . 
unselfish  manner    for  the  benefit 
and    blessing    of   the  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  for  the  advancement 
of  the  work  of  God.  I  thank  God 
that  it  was  my  privilege  occasion- 
ally to  be  in  his  presence.    I  am 
grateful  for  the  words  of  blessing 
that  he  has  spoken  to  me  individ- 
ually.   I  thank  the  Lord  for  the 
impressions  that  have  been  made 
upon  me  by  his  splendid  life.  I 
believe  those  impressions  are  of  an 
indelible  character,  and  that  they 
will  be  beneficial  to  me,  and  be  a 
blessing  to  me  as  long  as  I  live  in 
mortality. 

I  also  thank  God  for  the  splendid 
family  of  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith.  IJhave  been  very  happy  in 
my  association  with  some  of  his 
boys,  and  know  them  to  be  true 
men.  I  am  not  closely  acquainted 
with  all  of  his  sons.  I  believe, 
from  what  I  know  of  them  that 
they  are  all  true  men ;  I  have  had 
close  companionship  with  Hyrum 
M.  Smith,  with   Joseph  Fielding 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART. 


27 


Smith,  with  David  A.  Smith,  with 
E.  Wesley  Smith.  I  am  proud  of 
their  acquaintance.  There  are  no 
better  men  in  my  judgment  to  be 
found  among  the  people  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints. 

God  bless  the  family  of  our  late 
President,  and  may  the  truth  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  was 
always  the  greatest  thing  in  the 
thought  of  President  Smith,  be  the 
greatest  thing  in  the  affections  of 
his  sons  and  daughters,  and  their 
children,  and  their  generations  af- 
ter them  for  ever  and  ever. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us 
all  be  faithful.  By  good  lives  we 
can  all  honor  our  fathers.  We  have 
all  had  godly  fathers,  fathers  that 
have  been  true  to  the  work  of  God 
and  to  the  great  founders  chosen 
to  introduce  it,  they  have  ever  been 
willing  to  lay  down  their  lives  if 
need  be  for  the  work  revealed  in 
this  dispensation ,  I  hope  that  not 
only  the  family  of  our  great  presi- 
dent will  honor  forever  the  name 
of  their  distinguished  sire,  but  that 
we  will  all  honor  our  good  fath- 
ers, and  our  good  mothers,  and  that 
we  may  all  recognize  and  be  sure 
of  the  fact  that  we  are  also  en- 
listed in  the  cause  of  Christ,  and 
that  we  will  give  to  the  full,  alle- 
giance to  the  Master. 

We  are  all  called  to  be  expound- 
ers of  the  faith  of  the  gospel  that 
made  the  men  who  have  been  our 
leaders  as  great  and  noble  as  they 
were.  It  was  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  living  close- 
ly to  the  principles  of  that  gospel, 
and  consecrating  their  time  and 
service  to  the  advancement  of  the 
work  of  God,  that  made  them  ail 
mighty.  God  help  every  one  of  us 
to  be  true  and  steadfast  to  the 
same  faith,  that  we  also,  when  we 
have  finished  the  race  we  are  run 


ning,  may  have  companionship 
with  the  great  leader  of  .Israel 
whose  memory  we  honor  this  day. 
I  pray  the  blessings  of  God  upon 
every  one  in  this  congregation,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

(Of  the   First   Council  of  Seventy). 

It  is  fitting  and  proper  that  this 
special  conference  should  be  con- 
vened on  the  1st  day  of  June,  the 
89th  anniversary  of  the  holding  of 
the  first  conference  ever  held  by 
this  Church. 

Of  course,  none  of  you  will  un- 
derstand that  Brother  Roberts,  in 
using  the  beautiful  and  appropriate 
illustration  that  he  did  in  the  open- 
ing of  his  remarks,  meant  to  up- 
hold kingcraft,  because,  as  most  of 
you  know,  Brother  Roberts  has  just 
spent  many  months  at  the  front, 
willing  to  go  "over  the  top,"  in  the 
contest  of  democracy  against  autoc- 
racy ;  but  he  meant  to  point  out  that 
the  Church  could  say,  as  Tennyson 
has  his  brook  say,  that  "Men  may 
come  and  men  may  go,  but  I  go  on 
forever."  And  it  is  a  very  appro- 
priate thing  that  as  men  go  and 
men  come  in  these  leading  po- 
sitions that  we  should  pause  briefly 
to  pay  a  just  tribute  to  the  memory 
of  those  who  have  gone. 

I  feel  it  a  great  honor  to  say  a 
few  words  in  commemoration  of 
that  great  character,  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  |the  greatest  preacher  of 
righteousness,  in  my  opinion,  of 
this  dispensation.  I  have  been  with 
his  son  Hyrum  very  much,  and  I 
think  it  is  appropriate,  in  view  of 
his  recent  demise,  to  mention  his 
name.  I  have  heard  him  deliver 
more  than  fifty  sermons  in  succes- 
sion, and  after  each  of  which  I 
could  say  "that  indeed  is  worthy  of 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


an  apostle  of  our  Lord  and  Savior." 
And  yet  the  training  of  his  father 
was  such  that  I  always  placed  his 
father  first  as  a  great  preacher  of 
righteousness. 

I  may  be  pardoned  if  I  relate  a 
personal  incident  which  will  illus- 
trate the  effect  of  his  preaching  and 
his  spirit  upon  myself.  Under  pe- 
culiar circumstances,  I  came  into  a 
meeting  at  Logan  at  which  he 
spoke  and  at  which  he  presided.  I 
had  taken  a  long  trip  by  team 
through  the  mountains  and  held 
many  meetings.  It  had  taken,  me 
through  the  mountains  from  Cache 
county  to  Rich  county,  from  thence 
to  Bear  Lake  county,  and  from 
thence  to  Wyoming  and  back  to 
Gem  Valley,  as  they  call  it  now,  and 
through  Oneida  county.  We  had 
held  many  meetings,  and  it  was  cold 
and  there  was  much  loss  of  sleep 
and  much  fatigue,  so  that  when  I 
came  into  that  meeting  I  was  thor- 
oughly exhausted  both  in  body  and 
mind,  and  it  was  only  by  force  of 
circumstances  that  I  was  induced  to 
go  into  his  company  and  the  com- 
pany of  the  Saints.  But  under  the 
inspiration  of  his  speaking  as  the 
Spirit  of  God  seemed  to  flow  from 
him  to  his  audience  and  back  again 
to  him,  the  result  upon  me  was  such 
that  at  the  close  of  the  meeting  I 
was  as  free  from  fatigue  and  weari- 
ness as  I  ever  was  in  my  life.  I 
paid  special  attention  to  my  condiv 
tion,  and  could  not  detect  the  slight- 
est weariness  either  in  body  or  in 
mind.  A  veteran  newspaper  re- 
porter who  was  in  attendance  to 
report  the  speaking,  became  so  ab- 
sorbed that  he  failed  to  take  any 
notes  of  the  inspired  talk  of  Presi- 
dent Smith. 

I  think  that  the  Prophet  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  had  more  elements  of 
greatness  in  him  than  any  other 


man  that  it  has  been  my  privilege 
to  know.  He  was  great  in  a  larger 
number  of  ways  than  any  other 
man  I  ever  knew.  He  was  great 
in  courage,  and  stern  in  righteous- 
ness, and  yet  there  was  a  rare  com- 
bination of  kindness,  meekness  and 
gentleness.  He  was  as  kind  and 
loving  as  a  child.  In  fact  it  could 
be  said  of  him  that  he  had  "the 
heart  of  childhood  taken  up  and 
matured  in  the  power  of  manhood." 
No  man  would  have  met  death 
more  willingly,  in  my  judgment,  for 
his  convictions.  He  was  a  man 
great  in  his  fidelity  to  his  people 
and  to  the  truth,  and  great  in  his 
testimony  of  the  prophetic  calling 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  of  the 
divine  mission  of  our  Lord  and 
Savior  Jesus  Christ.  He  had  ele- 
ments of  strength  so  combined  that 
he  was  indeed  a  truly  great  man; 
the  favor  of  God  was  upon  him.  I 
think  he  exemplified  more  than  any 
"other  man  I  ever  knew  the  fulfil- 
ment of  the  scriptural  injunction 
and  promise  to  "seek  first  the  king- 
dom of  God  and  His  righteous- 
ness," and  all  other  things  should 
be  added  thereto. 

Here  are  some  lines  that  I  think 
of,  in  connection  with  the  life  and 
character  and  ministry  of  our  late 
lamented  Prophet: 

"He  was  one  who  never  turned  his 
back, 

But  marched  breast  forward; 
Never  doubted  clouds  would  break; 
Never   dreamed,   though   right  were 
worsted, 

Wrong  would  triumph. 
He  held,  we  fall  to  rise,  are  baffled 

To  fight  better,  sleep  to  wake." 

He  was  such  a  man  as  Holland 
describes  or  asks  for  when  he  ex- 
claims : 

"God  give  us  men.  The  time  demands 
Strong  minds,  great  hearts,  true  faith 
and  willing  hands; 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG. 


29 


Men  whom  the  lust  of  office  does 
not  kill; 

Men  whom  the  spoils  of  office  can- 
not buy; 

Men  who  possess  opinions  and  a  will; 
Men  who  have  honor;  men  who  will 
not  lie, 

Men  who  can  stand  before  a  dema- 
gogue 

And  damn  his  treacherous  flatteries 

without  winking; 
Tall    men,    sun    crowned,    who  live 

above  the  fog 
In  public  duty  and  private  thinking!" 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  the  mem- 
ory of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith 
and  his  posterity.  His  works  will 
live  after  him.  He  has  left  an  im- 
pression upon  the  Church  that  will 
be  enduring.  I  had  the  deepest  love 
and  the  greatest  admiration  for  him 
during  his  life,  and  I  regret  that  I 
did  not  let  him  know  at  least  a  frac- 
tional part  of  the  love  and  admira- 
tion I  had  for  him  and  his  ministry 
and  the  things  he  accomplished. 
May  the  Lord  bless  his  memory 
and  bless  us  that  we  may  follow  the 
good  example  he  set  for  us,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy). 

I  bear  you  my  testimony,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  all  that 
has  been  said  this  day  in  reference 
to  the  character  of  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith  is  quite  true. 

I  look  upon  a  man  as  great  when 
he  stands  for  great  principles ;  and 
that  is  the  standard  by  which  we 
should  judge  people.  When  people 
stand  for  principle,  and  know  by 
their  faith  in  God  that  the  principle 
is  true,  it  is  always  a  mark  of  true 
greatness ;  and  when  a  man  links  up 
his  life  with  God,  becomes  one  with 
God,  and  he  and  God  are  friends, 
you  may  depend  upon  it  you,  have 
the  truest  standard  of  greatness  that 
can  be  possibly  created. 


The  glorious  thing  to  me  in  the 
life  of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith 
was  not  only  his  wonderful  strength 
of  character,  his  true  conception  of 
life, .his  splendid  idealism  of  re- 
ligion and  his  great  faith  in  God ; 
but  his  living  the  divine  injunction 
"unless  ye  can  become  as  a  little 
child  ye  cannot  enter  the  kingdom 
of  heaven."  He  was  great  in  his 
power  to  understand  life  and  to  see 
God.  His  faith  was  one  of  the  most 
sublime  things  I  ever  knew.  He 
never  compromised  with  wrong  or 
with  evil  in  any  form.  Man  to  him 
is  free,  but  free  to  do  right,  not  free 
to  do  wrong.  I  remember  a  state- 
ment that  he  once  made  concerning 
the  meaning  of  liberty  which  I  shall 
never  forget.  Said  he:  "Liberty  is 
obedience  to  just  law."  That  to  me 
is  one  of  the  most  wonderful  ideas 
concerning  liberty  and  American- 
ism that  I  have  ever  heard.  Obe- 
dience to  law  is  liberty.  What  kind 
of  law?  Law  that  is  founded,  on 
truth.  Law  that  is  an  expression  of 
God's  will  to  his  people.  Therefore, 
he  was  very  democratic.  He  was 
very  loving  of  his  fellow  man.  How 
true  it  was  that  he  showed  his  love 
for  God'  because  he  loved  his  fellow 
men  so  much.  He  feared  no  man. 
He  loved  his  God,  and  with  his 
great  linking  of  truth  with  God's 
truth,  he  lived  a  truly  inspiring  life. 
Standing  upon  the  principle  of  right 
living,  he  truly  entered  the  kingdom 
of  heaven.  "Unless  ye  become  as  a 
little  child,  ye  cannot  know  God." 
To  me  he  was  very  great,  very  cour- 
ageous, very  brave,  very  true,  and 
above  all,  he  was  the  child  of  God. 
He  looked  up,  and  with  sublime 
faith  made  his  life  divine. 

May  we  see  the  beauty  of  his-  life, 
the  truth  of  his  words,  the  greatness 
of  his  soul,  the  magnanimity  of  his 
spirit,  his  great  relationship  to  God. 
Amen. 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


PREST.  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

I  want  to  thank  Brother  B. 
Cecil  Gates  and  those  who  have  been 
with  him  in  giving  us  good  'music 
today. 

I  also  want  to  speak  in  regard  to 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  this 
day  has  been  chosen. 

At  the  funeral  of  his  son,  Hyrum 
M.  Smith,  just  as  the  family  were 
taking  leave  of  the  remains  in  the 
Beehive  house,  I  entered  the  house 
that  morning,  and  while  standing  a 
little  way  from  the  bier  of  our  be- 
loved apostle,  there  came  from  an- 
other room  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  the  father  of  the  beloved 
deceased.  He  saw  me  and  came  di- 
rectly to  me,  and  putting  his  arms 
around  me  drew  me  to  his  bosom, 
and  we  kissed  and  embraced  each 
other.  And  he  said,  "Seymour,  we 
have  been  boys  tcgether."  And 
when  we  thus  embraced  I  found  that 
we  were  both  weeping.  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith  has  been  indeed 
a  remarkable  man.  He  has  main- 
tained the  love  of  his  people  from 
the  beginning  of  his  ministry  to  the 
end  of  his  life.  I  don;t  believe  that 
he  had  an  enemy  in  the  world,  or 
an  enemy  that  could  give  any  rea- 
son for  his  enmity ;  because  all  men 
saw  in  Joseph  F.  Smith,  our  re- 


cent president,  a  man  who  stood 
high  in  the  estimation  of  humanity, 
and  of  God  our  eternal  Father. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  has  now 
been  sustained  by  the  congrega- 
tions of  the  Saints,  and  by  the 
special  quorums  of  the  priesthood, 
and  I  beseech  for  him  that  love, 
reverence,  and  sustaining  power 
that  he  so  well  deserves  and  has  so 
well  merited  through  his  life  of  de- 
votion and  faithful  labors  all  the 
days  of  his  life.  For  I  have  known 
him  since  the  days  of  Nauvoo,  and 
I  say  that  I  have  never  known  bet- 
ter and  truer  men,  than  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith  and  President 
Heber  J.  Grant.  We  are  all  glad 
today  that  so  noble  a  man  has  been 
chosen  by  the  people  and  sanctioned 
by  the  voice  of  our  heavenly  Father 
to  be  the  President  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  May  the  Lord  add  his 
blessings  to  you  fathers  and  moth- 
ers, boys  and  girls,  friends  and 
strangers,  who  are  here  attending 
our  general  conference,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

"We  thank  thee,  O  God  for  a 
prophet,"  was  sung  by  the  choir  and 
congregation. 

Elder  Jonathan  Golden  Kimball 
offered  the  benediction. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 


President  Heber  J.  Grant,  pre- 
sided in  the  Tabernacle,  and  called 
the  congregation  to  order  at  2 
o'clock. 

The  Choir  and  congregation 
sang:  "Guide  us,  O  thou  great  Je- 
hovah." 


Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder 
Moses  Taylor,  president  of  the 
Summit  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  sang:  "Hope  thou  in 

God,"  ,solo  by  Edna  Gothberg. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE.  31 

PRES.  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 

This  is  a  splendid  sight,  especially  to  us  who  sit  here  on  this  plat- 
form, but  the  spectacle  presented  by  our  congregation  this  morning,  if 
anything,  was  still  grander  because  of  the  order  of  the  seating  and  the 
kind  of  persons  assembled,  particularly  on  the  lower  floor  of  this  build- 
ing. 

THE  SOLEMN  ASSEMBLY. 

It  was  a  unique  congregation,  what  we  call  in  this  Church  a  "solemn 
assembly"  of  the  holy  priesthood,  the  several  authorities  of  the  Church 
being  arranged  to  sit  in  their  proper  places,  according  to  their  relationship 
to  each  other,  in  this  splendid  organization  which  the  Lord  has  estab- 
lished on  the  earth,  and  of  the  spirit  and  power  attending  the  congrega- 
tion, and  especially  the  speakers.  No  such  a  scene  as  that  we  beheld  this 
morning  could  be  seen  in  any  of  the  congregations  of  the  various  churches 
in  the  world,  Christian,  or  heathen,  or  pagan. 

It  is  something  peculiar  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  this  order  of  priesthood,  as  exhibited  here  this  morn- 
ing in  our  meeting,  is  not  of  man's  formation.  It  is  divine  and  bears  the 
stamp  of  divinity  upon  it  in  its  order  and  in  the  relationship  that  exists 
between  these  different  bodies  of  the  priesthood,  all  animated  by  one 
spirit.  Truly  we  can  say,  as  the  apostles  of  old  said :  We  have  one  Lord, 
and  one  faith  and  one  baptism,"  and  one  hope  of  our  calling.  "And  God 
hath  set  in  the  Church  first  apostles,  secondly  prophets,  after  that  helps 
and  governments,  and  miracles  and  signs  and  gifts  and  blessings  and  the 
various  authorities,  all  for  the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  perfecting  of 
the  Saints,  and  for  the  edifying  of  the  body  of  Christ,  until  we  all  come 
in  unity  of  the  faith  to  the  knowledge  of  the  Son  of  God,"  that  we  may 
"grow  up  unto  him  who  is  our  living  head"  in  all  things.  I  thank  God 
with  all  my  soul  today  for  this  glorious  privilege  of  being  present  and  of 
being  associated  with  the  body  of  men  .who  by  uplifted  hand  recognized 
the  authorities  of  the  Church  and  voted,  without  a  dissenting  sign  or 
manifestation  of  any  kind,  to  sustain  them,  being  of  one  heart  and  one 
mind  and  led  by  one  spirit.  This  is  not  the  first  occasion  of  the  kind  in 
which  I  have  participated. 

LEADERS  OF  THE  LATTER-DAY  DISPENSATION. 

We  had  a  splendid  discourse  from  President  Grant  in  relation  to  the 
successive  presidents  that  we  have  had  from  the  beginning  of  the  Church, 
from  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  down  to  the  present  time.  I  did.  not  have 
the  joy  and  pleasure  of  being  personally  acquainted  with  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  but  felt  familiar  with  him  because  of  my  association  with 
so  many  with  whom  he  was  acquainted,  and  who  received  the  priesthood 
of  God  under  his  ordination — under  his  hands,  and  also  by  reading  his 
discourses,  accounts  of  his  life  and  works,  and  receiving  by  the  power  of 
God  a  testimony  of  the  fact  that  he  was  divinely  called  to  usher  in  the 
last  dispensation,  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times,  in  the  which 
as  the  Lord  revealed  anciently,  he  would  "gather  together  in  one  all 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


things  that  are  in  him,  both  in  the  heavens  and  in  the  earth,"  and  this  is 
that  dispensation.  And  I  received  when  I  was  a  boy,  when  I  first  em- 
braced the  gospel,  a  testimony  by  the  power  and  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
and  by  many  signs  and  tokens  and  manifestations  to  me,  personally,  a 
knowledge  of  this  great  fact — that  God  has  opened  the  heavens  in  the 
latter  times  and  once  more  communicated  with  man,  and  that  Jesus,  who 
is  the  Christ,  his  beloved  Son,  also  has  been  engaged  in  this  work  under 
his  direction,  and  this  Church,  which  bears  his  name,  is  indeed  the  Church 
of  Christ,  composed  of  Latter-day  Saints  instead  of  former-day  Saints. ' 
This  testimony  was  given  to  me,  as  I  have  stated,  through  my  obedience 
to  the  gospel  in  an  early  day,  and  since  that  time,  I  thank  the  Lord  I 
have  had  the  opportunity  of  laboring  in  this  great  cause,  the  greatest 
thing  on  the  earth,  a  divine  Church,  set  up  not  only  by  divine  authority 
but  by  divine  persons  and  the  actual  participation  in  and  direction  of 
Jesus  of  Nazareth,  who  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God  and  the 
Savior  of  the  world. 

I  was  present  when  President  John  Taylor  succeeded  to  the  presi- 
dency of  the  Church,  after  the  death  of  President  Brigham  Young.  I 
was  well  acquainted  with  him,  but  I  was  not  in  Nauvoo  when  the  mantle 
of  the  prophet  Joseph  fell  upon  him,  as  we  have  heard  testified  of  many 
times ;  but  I  became  acquainted  with  brother  Brigham  until  we  became 
very  familiar,  and  I  had  great  joy  in  knowing  that  he  loved  me  as  well  as 
that  I  loved  him,  that  we  often  had  an  opportunity  of  holding  converse 
and  that  he  understood  me  as  well  as  I,  measureably  at  least,  understood 
him,  and  I  know  that  he  was  the  proper  successor  and  inheritor  to  the 
authority  that  was  placed  upon  the  Prophet  Joseph,  that  he  was  the 
rightful  president  of  this  Church,  and  that  he  conducted  this  Church  under 
the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty.  And  the  great  works  he  accomplished 
are  seen,  many  of  them,  in  the  building  up  of  this  State  now  in  the  Ameri- 
can Union.  But  when  Brother  John  Taylor  succeeded  to  the  presidency 
I  was  present,  when  that  splendid  assembly,  the  kind  of  which  we  had 
this  morning,  was  established  here,  and  took  part  in  it,  and  so  when  his 
successor  was  appointed.  I  was  here  present  when  President  Wilford 
Woodruff  was  called  to  be  the  President  of  the  Church  and  also  Lorenzo 
Snow  and  Joseph  F.  Smith,  our  beloved  apostle  and  prophet  and  presi- 
dent who  has  recently  passed  away,  and  I  am  thankful  in  my  soul  today 
that  I  am  privileged  to  be  here  and  take  part  in  the  installation  of  Presi- 
dent Heber  J.  Grant  as  prophet,  seer  and  revelator,  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  his  authority  extending 
through  all  the  world.  And  with  all  my  heart  I  joined  with  the  brethren 
this  morning  in  lifting  up  my  right  hand  in  token  to  the  heavens  that 
I  accepted  these  men  in  their  several  callings  as  servants  of  the  Most 
High,  holding  the  authority  of  the  holy  priesthood,  which  is  after  the 
order  of  the  Son  of  God. 

MEN  CAN  DO  LITTLE  OF  THEMSELVES. 

I  feel  as  if  I  could  not  attempt  to  add  much  to  the  eulogies  pro- 
nounced upon  these  great  men  whose  names  have  been  mentioned  to 
us.    President  Brigham  Young,  I  regarded  as  one  of  the  most  remark- 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


33 


able  men  of  his  time.  I  was  going  to  say,  apart  from  his  calling  as  the 
prophet  of  the  Lord,  but  I  do  not  know  that  he  would  have  made  any 
great  mark  in  the  world  but  for  this  calling.  For  I  realize  fully  the 
truth  of  the  revelation  of  God  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  that  the  powers 
of  this  priesthood,  represented  here  this  morning,  are  "inseparably  con- 
nected with  the  powers  behind  the  veil,"  that  alone  we  are  not  very 
mighty ;  that  of  ourselves  we  can  do  very  little ;  but  with  those  heavenly 
powers  associated  with  us  and  we  with  them,  great  things  have  been  ac- 
complished and  still  greater  are  in  progress  and  will  be  accomplished. 
For  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord  and  it  is  established  in  the  earth  for  a 
direct  and  divine  purpose,  and  will  be  accomplished  although  the  means 
by  which  it  is  and  will  be  accomplished  may  be  of  themselves  not  very 
great  or  mighty,  but  the  powers  behind  the  veil  are  with  us,  not  only  those 
great  men  who  performed  so  wonderful  a  work  before  President  Grant's 
coming  into  the  presidency,  are  with  the  Lord  behind  the  veil,  not  only 
they  are  with  us  and  thousands  of  the  departed  ones  who  have  worked 
in  the  ministry,  but  all  the  great  and  the  mighty  of  the  ages  past  are  with 
us,  powers  of  the  holy  priesthood,  held  by  men  of  God  from  the  beginning 
are  with  us,  and  in  that  and  the  oversight  and  direction  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  as  our  living  head,  we  can  and  will  prevail  over  darkness  and 
error  and  wickedness  and  corruption  and  disorder  and  confusion,  and  in 
the  place  thereof  through  this  agency  will  come  order  and  peace  and  con- 
cord and  brotherly  love  and  the  union  and  power  of  mankind  when 
united  together  by  the  Holy  Spirit  from  on  high.  This  is  being  poured 
out  upon  those  who  will  obey  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  and  the  fruits 
thereof  are  already  being  made  manifest  in  the  earth,  and  the  time  will 
come  when  all  the  predictions  of  the  prophets  of  oldj  concerning  the  es- 
tablishment of  the  reign  of  peace  will  be  fulfilled,  but  it  will  come  through 
righteousness,  and  righteousness  through  the  preaching  of  the  truth,  the 
word  of  God,  by  the  power  of  God,  in  the  authority  of  God. 

CONCERNING  PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

I  had  the  pleasure  of  laboring  under  the  direction  of  those  great 
men  who  were  talked  about  this  morning,  President  Taylor,  President 
Woodruff,  President  Lorenzo  Snow,  and  President  Joseph  F.  Smith. 
When  we  had  finished  our  voting  we  sang  the  song:  "How  firm  a 'founda- 
tion, ye  Saints  of  the  Lord,  is  laid  for  your  faith  in  his  excellent  word. 
What  more  can  he  say  than  to  you  He  hath  said?"  I  thought,  when 
President  Grant  sat  down,  if  I  was  called  upon  to  speak,  as  he  announced 
that  his  counselors  would  have  something  to  say,  and  after  Brother 
Lund  had  finished  his  excellent  remarks,  what  more  could  I  say  than  to 
you  these  have  said.  I  felt  very  much  as  a  witness  did,  when  called  into 
court  to  give  testimony  on  a  certain  case,  and  had  been  preceded  by  a 
man  who  told  what  he  knew  and  who  said :  "Your  Honor,  I  says  as  he 
says,"  and  that  was  all  he  couH  tell.  I  was  very  much  in  the  same  con- 
dition, but  I  know  that  would  not  suffice,  so  here  this  afternoon  I  take 
pride  and  pleasure  in  adding  my  testimony  to  the  remarks  made -here 
this  morning  concerning  each  one  of  the  presidents  of  the  Church  of 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  from  the  time  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
down  to  the  decease  of  our  beloved  Brother  Joseph  F.  Smith.  I  loved 
him  with  all  my  heart,  and  I  am  always  glad  to  know  that  he  loved  me. 

From  the  first  time  we  met,  we  felt  as  though  we  were  kindred  spirits. 
The  first  time  I  met  him  was  about  59  years  ago,  in  Liverpool,  and  when 
we  struck  hands  and  were  introduced  to  each  other  our  hearts  went  with 
our  hands,  and  we  have  always  loved  each  other  from  that  time  to  the 
time  that  he  departed ;  my  love  remains  and  abides  in  my  heart,  and  I 
am  proud  of  having  been  associated  with  him  in  the  ministry.  It  was 
through  him,  that  I  was  called  to  the  apostleship,  and  ordained  under  his 
hands,  and  also  afterwards  to  be  one  of  his  counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency. In  this,  I  had  opportunities  of  knowing  the  kind  of  a  man  he  was 
and  is.  He  was  one  of  the  grand  men  of  the  age.  He  was  great  in  all 
things  he  undertook.  He  had  failings,  no  doubt,  like  others  had,  but 
they  were  not  very  manifest.  He  was  a  great  man  in  the  ministry.  He 
was,  indeed,  as  was  pronounced  upon  his  head  this  morning,  a  preacher 
of  righteousness  and  he  was  a  liver  of  righteousness.  He  was  exemplary 
in  all  his  ways,  in  public  and  in  private,  and  he  had  a  kind  heart  as  well 
as  a  strong  mind.  In  all  things  that  came  under  his  notice  and  his  direc- 
tion he  was  strong  and  mighty,  not  only  spiritually,  but  in  what  we  call 
temporal  things  his  judgment  was  splendid.  He  was  accurate.  He  was 
awake  and  alive  to  his  duties.  He  loved  to  perform  them  faithfully  and 
he  did  so.  I  am  sure  that  his  labors  were  acceptable  unto  God,  and  when 
"the  books  are  opened  and  men  are  judged  out  of  the  things  written  in 
the  books,  according  to  their  works,"  he  will  stand  in  the  front  rank,  and 
he  will  shine  in  the  fulness  of  the  celestial  glory,  with  the  sons  of  God 
who  minister  before  the  Most  High. 

God  bless  his  family,  those  whom  he  has  left  to  follow  in  his  foot- 
steps. He  had  a  splendid  family,  men  and  women  that  ought  to  be  hon- 
ored, and  will  be  in  Israel  all  their  days  and  throughout  all  their  genera- 
tions. They  will  be  prospered  in  all  things ;  the  Lord  will  be  with  them, 
and  the  influence  of  the  great  man  who  stands  as  a  patriarch  at  their 
head  will  be  upon  them. 

THE  MANTLE  OF  JOSEPH  RESTING  UPON  HEBER. 

I  believe  in  the  influence  of  those  who  hold  the  priesthood  behind, 
the  veil.  The  testimony  given  concerning  the  falling  of  the  mantle  of 
Joseph  the  prophet  upon  Brigham  Young,  when  he  became  the  leader 
of  the  Church,  has  been  repeated  in  these  times,  and  quite  recently  con- 
cerning our  late  president  and  the  president  who  has  been  elected,  ap- 
pointed and  sustained  today,  and  I  believe  that  the  prophet  Joseph  will  be 
near  to  Heber  J.  Grant  when  necessary — Joseph  F.  Smith,  I  mean.  And 
so  in  regard  to  his  family.  I  am  satisfied  in  my  own  mind,  and  by  my 
own  experience,  that  the  powers  on  high  are  with  the  powers  on  the  earth. 
Men  holding  the  Holy  Priesthood,  who  have  ministered  in  the  flesh  and 
have  gone  into  the  world  of  spirits,  and  are  laboring  there  in  the  same 
great  cause  as  that  in  -which  we  are  engaged  in  the  flesh,  help  the  breth- 
ren in  their  times  of  need,  and  are  with  them,  and  stand  by  them  in  times 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


35 


that  try  men's  souls.  I  am  assured  of  this,  I  say,  in  my  own  experience; 
and  this  is  the  power  by  which  we  shall  prevail  over  the  things  of  the 
world.  The  time  will  come  when  the  priesthood  behind  the  veil  will 
minister  personally  in  the  temples  of  God  to  men  holding  the  priesthood 
in  the  flesh,  revealing  matters  that  are  needful  to  be  known  concerning 
the  departed  that  the  work  being  performed  for  the  dead,  as  well  as  for 
the  living  may  go  on  and  be  accomplished  and  perfected  properly,  and 
that  we  may  grow  up  together  in  Jesus  the  Christ,  who  is  our  living  head. 

SOME  THINGS  THAT  PRESIDENT  SMITH  WOULD  SAY. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  there  are  two  or  three  things  that  I 
think  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  would  talk  about,  if  he  were  present 
with  us  today.  One  is  that  great  truth  concerning  Jesus  of  Nazareth. 
During  the  later  years  of  his  life,  President  Smith  took  great  pleasure  and 
joy  in  bearing  his  testimony  to  his  certainty  of  knowledge  that  Jesus  is 
and  was  the  Christ,  that  he  died  for  mankind,  that  through  him  and  by 
him  the  worlds  were  made,  under  the  direction  of  the  great  Eternal 
Father,  and  that  he  came  on  the  earth  in  the  meridian  of  time,  and  laid 
down  his  life,  voluntarily,  for  the  sins  of  mankind,  that  through  faith  and 
repentance  and  baptism,  and  obedience  to  all  the  ordinances  of  the  house 
of  the  Lord,  men  might  be  raised  from  the  dead  and  saved  and  become  per- 
fected in  the  celestial  glory,  to  inherit  the  fulness  of  the  blessings 
pertaining  to  eternal  lives;  and  that  through  him  and  by  him  all  the  dead, 
small  and  great,  will  come  forth  from  their  tombs  and  stand  upon  their 
feet  and  be  judged  according  to  their  works,  the  good,  bad  or  indifferent, 
of  all  races  and  countries  and  climes,  for  he  is  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world ;  and  "as  in  Adam  all  die,"  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be  raised  from  the 
dead.  This  was  one  of  the  themes  on  which  he  dwelt  before  he  departed 
from  us,  and  especially  in  later  years. 

THE  CHURCH  OF  CHRIST  THE  ONLY  CHURCH. 

Another  truth  is  that  this  Church,  to  which  we  belong,  is  the  only 
Church  of  Christ  on  the  earth.  This  is  not  saying  anything  against  the 
views  or  opinions  of  our  friends  and  neighbors,  or  people  afar  off,  who 
differ  from  us  in  our  views,  not  at  all.  We  are  quite  willing  that  they 
shall  go  their  way,  particularly  if  they  will  allow  us  to  go  ours.  Some- 
times they  have  tried  to  prevent  us,  but  they  have  not  accomplished  very 
much  in  their  efforts,  no  matter  what  they  have  done,  but  this  work  has 
gone  on  in  spite  of  opposition  as  it  will  go  on  until  everything  beneath 
the  eternal  heavens  is  subdued  unto  the  Father,  and  the  Son,  and  the 
Holy  Ghost,  and  divinity  shall  reign  on  the  earth  instead  of  mortality 
and  wickedness  and  corruption. 

This  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  has  a  special  mission 
in  the  world  and  that  mission  has  come  from  on  high,  not  from  the  minds 
of  men,  not  from  the  reading  of  books,  not  inherited  from  old  creeds,  but 
it  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  restored  to  earth  in  its  fulness,  in  its 
purity,  in  its  power,  in  its  authority  and'  its  unity  with  the  heavens ;  and  it 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


will  prevail.  All  the  different  sects  and  organizations  in  Christendom 
and  the  others  that  are  in  heathendom  suit  pretty  well  the  people  who 
adhere  to  them.  AW  right.  Let  them  stay  by  them,  if  they  think  they 
are  good  enough ;  but  they  are  not  good  enough  for  Latter-day  Saints. 
We  want  the  truth  as  it  is  on  high,  and  as  it  is  revealed  from  on  high 
to  the  servants  of  God  on  the  earth.;  and  this  organization  to  which  we 
belong  is  peculiar  to  itself. 

NO  NEED  FOR  OUTSIDE  ORDERS. 

That  introduces  another  point  that  I  am -sure  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  if  he  were  here,  would  touch  upon  at  this  conference,  and  it  is 
this :  That  when  we  are  in  this  Church  and  members  of  it,  we  belong  to 
the  body  of  Christ,  and  there  is  no  need  for  us  to  go  outside  of  it  for 
anything  in  the  world,  particularly  of  a  religious  character.  We  have 
no  need  to  dabble  in  -the  things  of  the  world ;  we  have  no  need  to  join 
other  organizations  that  are  antagonistic  to  or  out  of  harmony  with  this 
Church.  Here  is  something  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  consider  at 
this  conference.  There  is  nothing  new  in  what  I  am  saying,  but  it  needs 
to  be  impressed  upon  the  minds  of  our  people  in  every  part  of  the  Church, 
and  these  men  who  hold  the  holy  priesthood  who  have  lifted  up  their  hands 
today  to  sustain  the  authorities  of  this  Church  should  carry  with  them, 
when  they  go  home,  this  spirit  and  this  determination  as  advice  for  our 
people.  We  will  serve  the  Lord!  Let  the  dying  world  go  to  its  grave 
if  it  will.  Let  the  wicked  that  are  being  bound  in  bundles  go  to  the 
burning  if  they  do  not  repent,  but  as  for  us,  We,  with  all  we  are  and  with 
all  we  have,  should  be  in  this  Church  in  body  and  in  spirit,  in  every 
capacity,  and  there  should  be  no  need  and  no  desire  on  our  part  to  go  out- 
side of  the  strait  and  narrow  way,  the  only  way  which  leads  to  the 
presence  of  the  Eternal  Father  and  to  the  gift  of  eternal  life. 

Now,  this  is  not  saying  anything  against  people  who  desire  to  be- 
long, to  other  societies.  If  a  man  is  satisfied  with  any  of  the  Christian 
sects,  if  it  suits  him  or  suits  his  wife,  that  is  his  concern.  Generally 
speaking  it  is  the  "wife  who  does  the  religion  in  the  outside  world.  I 
have  conversed  with  a  great  many  very  prominent  men,  some  of  them 
members  of  Congress,  and  this  is  what  they  say :  Oh,  I  don't  care  about 
religion,  my  wife  does  all  that  and  I  go  to  Church  with  her."  Well,  let 
•people  who  like  that  kind  of  thing  keep  on  liking  it  and  if  they  do  not 
choose  to  receive  what  we  have — which  is  perfection  in  religion,  which 
is  Godlike  and  comes  from  God,  and  leads  to  God — if  they  do  not  like 
that,  why  they  have  the  privilege  of  letting  it  alone.  We  would  not  do 
anything  to  compel  them,  if  we  had  the  power,  to  walk  in  our  way ;  but 
that  is  not  the  point.  If  men  like  to  believe  in  the  doctrines  and  principles 
and  sermons  that  are  preached  in  the  world,  all  right,  but  as  for  us,  what 
should  we  do  ?  What  is  the  duty  of  the  .elders  of  Israel  and  of  men 
holding  the  holy  priesthood,  and  of  the  members  of  the  Church  who  have 
been  baptized  into  the  Church?  Their  duty  is  to  be  with  Christ,  baptized 
into  Christ,  having  put  on  Christ,  coming  unto  him,  belonging  to  him,  to 
be  part  of  the  body  of  Christ,  which  is  his  Church,  and  to  have  no  entang- 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.. PENROSE. 


37 


ling  alliances  with  anything  outside.  Not  to  .do  any  injury  to  anybody  else 
who  does  not  see  as  we  do,  not  at  all;  not  to  find  fault  with  them  for 
taking  their  own  way,  but  our  way  should  be  the  way  of  the  Lord. 

We  have  no  need  of  anything  else.  In  the  troubles  that  are  coming— 
for  the  world  is  menaced  now  with  troubles  and  strife  and  division  which 
will  bring  misery  and  sorrow  and  destruction  to  many  souls — let  our 
place  be  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  in  the  order 
of  the  holy  priesthood,  and  we  have  no  need  to  join  other  orders  to  take 
away  part  of  our  time,  part  of  our  influence,  and  part  of  our  means  and 
to  hinder  us  from  devoting  ourselves  entirely  to  the  work  of  the  Lord. 
Let  me  urge  this  upon  the  attention  of  my  dear  brethren  and  sisters  who 
are  here  this  afternoon.  This  is  the  Lord's  work  and  it  is  marvelous  in 
our  eyes.  Brother  Lund  alluded  to  the  revelation  of  the  Lord  in  the 
beginning,  before  there  was  any  organized  church  of  the  Saints :  "A  great 
and  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth  unto  the  children  of  men. 
Therefore,  thrust  in  your  sickle  and  reap."  Yes,  indeed,  a  marvelous 
work  and  a  wonder,  just  as  Isaiah  predicted ;  and  one  of  the  signs  of  it 
was  that  the  wisdom  of  the  wise  would  perish  and  the  understanding  of 
the  prudent  would  come  to  naught ;  but  wisdom  and  inspiration  and 
knowledge  and  certainty  and  power  are  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
revealed  from  him  and  by  him  and  under  his  direction  in  the  last  days. 
Oh  my  brethren  and  sisters,  why  waste  your  time,  your  talents,  your 
means,  your  influence  in  following  something  that  will  perish  and  pass 
away,  when  you  could  devote  yourselves  to  a  thing  that  will  stand  for- 
ever? For  this  Church  and  kingdom,  to  which  you  belong,  will  abide 
and  continue  in  .time,  in  eternity,  while  endless  ages  roll  along,  and  you 
with  it  will  become  mightier  and  more  powerful ;  while  the  things  of  this 
world  will  pass  away  and  perish,  and  will  not  abide  in  nor  after  the  resur- 
rection, saith  the  Lord  our  God. 

JOSEPH  A  MIGHTY  PREACHER  OF  RIGHTEOUSNESS. 

So  I  say  of  our  dear  president,  Brother  Joseph  F.  Smith,  to  whose 
grandeur  of  character  and  faithfulness  in  the  ministry  and  power  and 
authority  from  God  I  add  my  humble  testimony,  if  he  were  here  I  feel 
assured  that  he  would  touch  on  these  questions  in  a  far  better  way  than 
I  could  attempt  to  do.  He  was  a  mighty  preacher  before  the  Lord.  His 
words  were  golden.  Many  of  them  are  treasured  up ;  others  have  passed 
away  and  will  be  heard  perhaps  no  more  until  many  ages  may  come  in 
the  future.  The  time  will  come  when  all  things  will  be  made  manifest 
and  the  veil  of  the  covering  be  taken  away  and  we  shall  see  as  we  are 
seen,  and  know  as  we  are  known.  Our  true  character  will  come  up  and 
we  will  be  judged  and  valued  for  what  we  are,  not  for  what  men  have 
thought  about  us.  In  that  time  all  these  great  things  that  are  hid  shall 
be  revealed,  from  the  beginning  to  the  end  of  time,  down  through  the 
great  dispensations  of  the  past  and  brought  forth  in  the  greatest  dispensa- 
tion of  all,  the  dispensation  of  the  fullness  of  times. 

Now  I  add  my  testimony  to  the  eulogies  pronounced  this  morning  so 
beautifully  by  our  brethren  upon  the  great  men  who  have  been  with  us 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  who  have  departed  from  us.  The  Lord  has  proved  to  us  that  great 
as.  they  were,  others  can  come  forth  to  perform  his  work,  when  he  is 
with  them ;  that  this  work  does  not  depend  upon  any  single  individual  or 
any  little  coterie  of  individuals.  It  is  the  Lord's  work,  and  is  marvelous 
in  our  eyes.  We  will  abide  with  it  and  give  it  our  support,  do  what  little 
we  can  while  we  live  on  the  earth,  and  when  we  depart  we  fully  expect, 
without  any  doubt  in  our  souls,  to  go  over  to  the  great  multitude  of  men 
and  women  behind  the  veil  who  are  engaged  in  this  same  work,  carrying 
it  to  those  who  sit  in  darkness  in  the  spirit  world,  working 
for  Christ  and  for  the  salvation  of  mankind  under  his  direction,  fighting 
under  his  banner  the  powers  that  are  evil  and  preparing  the  great  day 
when  he  shall  come,  and  the  Saints  with  him,  arid  reign  over  all  the 
earth  in  mighty  power  and  glory.  God  help  us  to  do  this.  God  help  us 
to  see  things  as  they  are,  to  withdraw  our  influence  from  those  things 
that  are  not  of  God,  center  our  affections,  our  thoughts,  our  means,  our 
influence,  our  power,  and  especially  the  authority  of  the  holy  priesthood 
in  this  great  Church  that  the  Lord  has  set  up,  which  shall  win  its  widen- 
ing way  until  all  the  generations  of  men  that  can  be  saved  in  this  world 
and  in  the  world  behind  the  veil,  shall  be  brought  out  of  darkness  into 
light  and  bow  the  knee  to  King  Immanuel,  and  serve  God  our  heavenly 
Father  and  acknowledge  Jesus  the  Christ  as  King  and  Lord  of  all.  Amen. 


Edith  Grant  Young  sang:  "Who 
are  these  arrayed  m  white  ?" 

ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

In  the  quorums  of  the  priesthood 
there  is  an  irresistible,  compelling 
power — The  leaders  of  Israel,  what 
■a  galaxy  of  men! — President  loseph 
F.  Smith  a  powerful  preacher  of 
righteousness. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  my  feelings 
this  afternoon  are  quite  in  accord 
with  the  views  expressed  by  Presi- 
dent Penrose.  I  think  we  had  a 
glorious  meeting  this  morning.  The 
gathering  in  of  the  quorums  of  the 
priesthood  and  arranging  them  in 
their  order  was  eminently  proper, 
and  as  they  sat  here  filling  the  body 
of  the  house  they  presented  a  most 
inspiring  scene.  And  when  they 
arose  and  voted  for  our  new  Presi- 
dent and  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church,  quorum  after  quor- 
um, with  uplifted  hands,  and  fin- 
ally,   when   all   the  congregation 


stood  with  uplifted  hands  and 
voted,  it  indicated  to  me  that  there 
is  in  these  quorums  of  priesthood 
an  irresistable,  compelling  power; 
I  was  reminded  of  the  trite  saying 
that  in  unity  there  is  strength,  in 
division  weakness.  And  surely, 
brethren  and  sisters,  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  strong  because  they 
have  a  united  priesthood  and  peo- 
ple. 

The  theme  chosen  and  dwelt  up- 
on by  the  speakers  this  morning 
Was  most  ennobling.  Our  leaders, 
T~-poh  Smith,  Brigham  Young;, 
John  Taylor,  Wilford  Woodruff, 
Lorenzo  Snow  and  Joseph  F. 
Smith — what  a  galaxy  of  men ! 
Where  could  you  find  their  equal  in 
all  the  world?  These  men  were 
brilliant  in  the  knowledge  of  truth. 
They  were  learned  in  the  deep 
things  of  God,  and  they  exercised 
keys  and  powers  bearing  upon  the 
salvation  of  immortal  souls.  These 
men,  prophets,  seers  and  revelators, 
held  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


39 


heaven.  Great  were  they  indeed, 
but  men,  nevertheless,  with  their 
weaknesses  and  imperfections. 
However,  their  record,  their  faith, 
their  words,  their  lives  are  before 
us,  as  an  open  book.  Scan  them 
as  you  will,  investigate,  look  up 
their  records  from  all  sides  and  you 
will  find  no  great  blemishes.  They 
were  pure,  good  men,  free  from  the 
sins  of  the  world,  and  men  whom 
we  could  safely  follow. 

The  late  President  Joseph 
Smith — I  loved  sincerely  and  deep- 
ly. I  loved  him  because  of  his  in- 
tegrity to  the  work  of  God.  I 
loved  him  because  of  his  good  ex- 
ample before  the  Church  and  be- 
fore the  world.  I  loved  him  be- 
cause of  his  kindly  and  thought- 
ful consideration  for  his  brethren 
and  associates  in  the  ministry  and 
for  the  Latter-day  Saints  generally, 
for  he  was  a  most  genial  and  lov- 
able man.  I  loved  him  because  of 
the  wise  counsel  and  timely  ad- 
monitions that  constantly  fell  from 
his  lips.  He  was  indeed  a  power- 
ful preacher  of  righteousness.  The 
influence  of  his  words  will  be  felt 
by  the  coming  generations.  A . 
righteous  man  may  die  and  pass 
from  the  earth,  but  his  words  of 
truth  and  testimony  can  not  die  and 
will  not  pass  away,,  but  they  will 
live  in  the  hearts  of  the  people  and 
bear  Jruit  to  the  honor  and  the 
glory  of  God. 

The  following  fervent  exhorta- 
tion was  uttered  by  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  at  the  April 
conference  of  190Z,  which  was 
shorty  after  he  had  been  sustained 
as  President  of  the  Church.  Breth- 
ren and  .sisters  give  ear  to  these 
words : 

"Let  us  sustain  the  cause  of  Zion. 
Let  no  man  speak  lightly  of  the  or- 


dinances of  the  house  of  God.  Let 
no  man  hold  in  derision  the  priest- 
hood that  the  Lord  has  restored  to 
the  earth.  It  is  the  authority  that 
He  has  given  unto  men.  Let  no  man 
look  contemptuously  upon  the  organ- 
ization of  the  Churcxi  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  as  it  has  been 
established  in  the  earth  through  the 
instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  whom  the  Lord  raised  up 
when  he  was  but  a  child  to  lay  the 
foundation  of  the  same.  Let  no  man 
treat  these  things  lightly  or  doubt- 
ingly,  but  let  every  man  seek  to  in- 
still and  understand  me  truth  and 
teach  his  children  to  become  famil- 
iar with  those  truths  of  heaven  which 
have  been  restored  to  earth  in  the 
latter  days.  I  believe  with  all  my  soul 
in  God  the  Father  and  our  Lord  and 
Savior  Jesus  Christ.  I  believe  with 
all  my  might,  mind  and  strength  in 
the  Savior  of  the  world ,  and  in  the 
principles  of  •  redemption  from  death 
and  sin.  I  believe  in  the  divine  mis- 
sion of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
I  believe  in  all  the  truth  that  I  know, 
and  I  believe  that  there  are  many 
principles  of  eternal  truth  that  still 
lie  hidden  from  man  and  from  the 
understanding  of  men  which  will  yet 
be  revealed  by  the  power  of  God  unto 
his  faithful  servants.  I  believe  that 
the  Lord  has  revealed  unto  the  chil- 
dren of  men  all  that  they  know.  I 
do  not  believe  that  any  man  has  dis- 
covered any  principle  of  science  or 
art,  in  mechanism  or  mathematics  or 
anything  else  that  God  did  not  know 
before  man  did.  Man  is  indebted  to 
the  Source  of  all  intelligence  and 
truth  for  the  knowledge  that  he  pos- 
sesses and  all  who  will  yield  obe- 
dience to  the  promptings  of  the  Spirit 
which  lead  to  virtue,  to  honor,  to  the 
love  of  God  and  man  to  the  love  of 
truth  and  that  which  is  ennobling  and 
enlarging  to  the  soul  will  get  a  clean- 
er and  more  expansive  and  more  di- 
rect and  conclusive  knowledge  of 
God's  truths  than  any  one  else  can 
obtain.  I  believe  this  because  I  know 
it  is  true.  The  Lord  Almighty  iive^. 
He  made  the  heavens  and  the  earth 
and  the  fountains  of  water.  We  are 
his  children,  his  offspring  and  we  are 
not  here  by  chance.  The  Lord  le- 
signed  our  coming  and  the  object  of 
our  being  here.  He  designs  that  we 
shall  accomplish  our  mission  to  be- 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


come  conformed  to  the  likeness  and 
image  of  Jesus  Christ  that  like  him 
we  may  be  without  sin  unto  salva- 
tion, and  like  him  we  may  be  filled 
with  pure  intelligence,  and  like  him 
we  may  be  exalted  to  the  right  hand 
of  the  Father  to  sit  upon  thrones  and 
have  dominions  and  power  in  the 
sphere  in  which  we  shall  be  called 
to  act.  I  testify  to  tnis  doctrine  for 
the  Lord  has  made  me  to  know  and 
feel  the  truth  of  it  from  the  crown  of 
my  head  to  the  souls  of  my  feet.  1 
love  good  honorable  men,  even  men 
who  may  be  mistaken,  as  far  as  ibeir 
judgment  is  concerned,  but  who  try 
to  do  right.  I  love  them  for  the  rea- 
son that  they  are  my  brethren  and 
sons  of  my  Father  and  I  would  that 
they  might  all  see  the  truth  as  it  is 
in  Christ  Jesus  and  accept  it  and  re- 
ceive all  the  benefits  of  it  in  time  and 
throughout  all  eternity.  If  the  Lord 
has  revealed  to  the  world  a  plan  of 
salvation  and  redemption  from  sin 
by  which  men  may  be  exalted  again 
into  his  presence  and  partake  of 
eternal  life  with  him,  I  submit  as  a 
propos:tion  that  can  not  be  contro- 
verted that  no  man  can  be  exalted  in 
the  presence  of  God  and  attain  to  a 
fulness  of  glory  and  happiness  in  his 
kingdom  and  presence  save  and  ex- 
cept he  will  obey  the  plan  that  God 
'has  devised  and  revealed." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  will 
take  these  few  precious  words  to 
heart,  treasure  them  up  in  our 
souls,  and  conform  our  lives  to 
them,  we  will  surely  attain  to  a  sal- 
vation and  an  exaltation  in  the  ce- 
lestial kingdom,  which  is  God's 
greatest  gift  to  man.  May  the  Lord 
bless  us  and  help  us  to  do  his  will, 
ard  to  follow  in  the  steps  of  our 
file  leaders,  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEO.  ALBERT  SMITH 

Meaning  of  sustaining  the  Authorities 
— Eulogy  of  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith — An  honor  to  preside  over 
the  British  Mission — Personal  testi- 
mony of  the  Divinity  of  the  Church 
and  the  restoration  of  the  gospel — 


Injunction  to  faithful  service — Pray- 
er for  mission  presidents — The^ 
world  has  need  of  missionaries;  let 
all  prepare  to  teach  the  gospeL— 
Farewell  remarks — Sustaining  the 
leaders  of  the  Church. 

I 

I  rejoice  today  in  being  permitted 
to  meet  with  you  in  this  general 
conference  and  in  being  permitted 
to  raise  my  hand  to  sustain  those 
whom  our  heavenly  Father  has 
called  to  preside  over  us.  It  must 
be  a  source  of  strength  to  the  Presi- 
dent of  this  Church  to  look  into  the 
faces  of  thousands  of  honest  men 
and'  women  and  observe  them  raise 
their  hand  in  covenant  with  our 
Father  in  heaven,  and  sustain  him 
in  the  office  to  which  he  has  been 
called  as  president,  of  this  great 
Church.  The  obligation  that  we 
make  when  we  raise  our  hands  un- 
der such  circumstances,  is  a  most 
sacred  one.  It  does  not  mean  that 
we  will  go  quietly  on  our  way  and 
be  willing  that  the  prophet  of  the 
Lord  shall  direct  this  work,  but  it  ' 
means, — if  I  understand  the  obliga- 
tion I  assumed  when  I  raised  my 
hand — that  we  will  stand  behind 
him ;  we  will  pray  for  him ;  we  will 
defend  his  good  name,  and  we  will 
strive  to  carry  out  his  instructions 
as  the  Lord  shall  direct  him  to  offer 
them  to  us  while  he  remains  in  that 
position.  So  it  is  a  power  of 
strength  that  has  been  reared  to- 
day to  our  beloved  president,  Heber 
J.  Grant,  and  his  counselors,  as  we 
voted  for  them  in  this  solemn  as- 
sembly. 

It  is  with  peculiar  feelings  that  I 
stand  here  today.  At  our  last  gen- 
eral conference  I  was  stricken  ill, 
and  was  only  able  to  attend  one 
meeting  of  the  conference,  being 
taken  to  the  hospital  from  the  first 
meeting  in  the  morning.  I  am  grate- 
ful that  the  remembrance  I  have  of 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


41 


President  Smith  was  his  wonderful 
testimony  borne  on  that  occasion 
to  us.  I  look  back  and  feel  that 
it  was  a  privilege  to  be  at  that  meet- 
ing, because  it  was  the  last  assembly 
that  he  addressed  in  this  great 
building.  His  work  is  done.  The 
beautiful  tributes  that  have  been 
paid  to  him  bv  loving  brothers  and 
sisters  of  this  Church  have  no  effect 
now  other  than  to  comfort  those  of 
us  who  remain,  but  his  wonderful 
devotion  to  duty,  his  magnanimous 
feeling  toward  mankind,  his  tender 
love  of  the  weak  and  the  erring,  will 
be  sources  of  inspiration  to  all  of  us 
who  knew  him,  as  long  as  we  live 
upon  the  earth. 

There  was  no  duty  too  arduous 
for  him  to  perform,  if  he  felt  it 
was  the  will  of  the  Lord.  He  began 
his  work  in  infancy  almost,  and  I 
might  say  in  passing  that  his  life 
was  preserved  from  being  smoth- 
ered to  death  by  a  mob  when  he  was 
a  little  baby  in  his  mother's  arms. 
He  was  resuscitated  and  brought 
back  to  life  after  his  little  body  had 
turned  black  as  a  result  of  suffoca- 
tion. He  came  across  the  great 
plains  with  his  mother,  and  while 
only  a  child  was  a  man  in  .  deter- 
mination, standing  by  the  side  of  his 
mother  and  those  who  were  with 
her,  determined  to  do  his  duty  and 
serve  God  and  keep  his  command- 
ments. When  a  mere  youth  he  was 
called  to  the  islands  of  the  sea  as 
referred  to  here  this  morning.  He 
had  to  work  his  way  across  the 
ocean  and  was  willing  to  do  any- 
thing that  he  might  be  able  to  reach 
his  field  of  labor ;  not  going  as  some 
of  us  do  today,  in  a  palace  car  and 
in  a  palatial  steamer,  but  he  went  in 
a  humble  manner.  He  wrought 
upon  the  hearts  of  the  people  of  that 
land  until  today  there  are  thousands 
in  the  islands  of  the  sea  who  call  his 


name  blessed;  and  in  that  land  to 
which  I  have  been  called  to  go,  he 
ministered  in  his  young  manhood, 
devoted  himself  in  faith  and  devo- 
tion to  win  mankind  to  repentance, 
to  warn  men  of  the  judgments  that 
were  impending,  calling  them  from 
the  error  of  their  ways,  begging 
them  to  turn  to  the  Lord,  to  receive 
the  gospel,  and  to  accept  of  the 
mercy  of  our  Father  to  those  who 
love  him  and  keep  his  command- 
ments. 

These  are  some  of  the  memories 
that  come  to  me  upon  my  feet  re- 
garding this  blessed  man.  Of 
course,  most  of  you,  many  of  you, 
know  how  near  he  was  to  me, 
almost  like  a  father.  I  had  the  op- 
portunity of  traveling  with  him 
from  ocean  to  ocean,  and  from  the 
north  land  to  the  south,  all  over  the 
United  States.  I  had  the  pleasuie 
of  watching  over  him  by  day  and 
fuidin.?  him  by  night.  I  have  re- 
joiced in  the  testimony  of  the  gos- 
pel that  I  have  heard  him  bear  in 
many  places,  and  I  have  been  made 
glad  when  I  have  seen  the  great 
strong  men  of  the  earth  shake  his 
hand  and  go  away  with  the  impres- 
sion that  he  was  indeed  no  ordinary 
man.  I  have  known  of  people  who, 
out  of  curiosity,  called  at  the  office 
here  in  Salt  Lake  City  to  see  Presi- 
dent Smith,  and  before  they  have 
left  the  ground  upon  which  the 
building  stands,  I  have  heard  them 
say,  turning  to  each- other:  "What 
a  wonderful  character!" 

Think  of  him  as  a  little  boy  whose 
father  was  taken  from  him  in  his 
childhood — this  little  boy  who  was 
willing  to  go  where  the  Lord  want- 
ed him  to  go.  He  had  not  the  op- 
portunities of  college,  of  university- 
training,  but  he  was  lifted  up  clay 
by  day,  under  the  inspiration  of  al- 
mighty God,  until  he  could  stand 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


among  his  fellows,  honored  and 
blessed,. and  loved,  not  only  by  all 
Israel,  but  by  many  of  those  who 
are  alien  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  What  did  it,  my  brethren 
and  sisters?  It  was  the  gospel  of 
our  Lord.  It  was  devotion  to  the 
Father  of  us  all.  It  was  a  desire 
to  bless  mankind,  and  a  knowledge 
that  our  Father  lives;  that  Jesus  is 
th^  Christ,  and  then  a  determination 
to  live  \-.p  to  that  knowledge  in  ol- 
der that  he  might  gain  a  place  be- 
side his  beloved  father  and  mother 
and  the  prophets  who  had  gone  be- 
fore, to  be  worthy  of  their  compan- 
ionship throughout  the  ages  of  eter- 
nity. 

He  was  blessed  as  few  men  have 
been  blessed  in  this  world — indeed 
I  might  say  as  no  other  man  I  know 
of  in  this  world, — by  a  most  re- 
markable family,  to  which  refer- 
ence has  been  made  today,  men  and 
women  who  honor  the  Lord  and 
keep  his  commandments,  who  re- 
vere their  husband  and  father.  We 
do  well  to  remember,  even  at  this 
remote  period  of  time  from  his 
passing,  the  man  who  has  been  lift- 
ed from  poverty  to  affluence,  who 
was  able  to  stand  among  his  fel- 
lows unsurpassed  by  any  child  of 
our  father  who  lived  in  his  day.  I 
am  grateful  that  I  have  had  the 
touch  of  his.  hand,  I  am  thankful 
that  I  have  had  the  press  of  his  lips 
upon  mine,  I  am  pleased  that  he 
considers  me  one  of  his  family,  and 
today  I  mourn  his  departure  and 
remember  his  passing  as  if  it  were 
but  yesterday. 

I  am  grateful  to  be  permitted  to 
Walk  along  the  paths  that  he  has 
walked,  and  as  I  go  to  that  land  re- 
ferred to  by  President  Grant,  I  de- 
sire, with  all  my  soul,  to  be  worthy 
of  those  who  have  preceded  me — 
the  great  and  good  men  of  this 


Church  who  have  presided  there  in 
honor  and  dignity,  and  among  them 
our  beloved  brother  and  president, 
Joseph  F.  Smith.  There  are  those 
sitting  here  upon  this  stand  who 
have  been  there  and  have  per- 
formed a  wonderful  labor.  I 
would  like  to  say  to  you,  my  broth- 
ers and  sisters,  that  I  esteem  it  an 
honor — nay,  more-  than  an  honor,  I 
esteem  it  a  very  great  blessing — 
that  the  Lord  has  raised  me  from 
the  feeble  condition  that  I  was  in  a 
short  time  ago,  restoring  me  to 
such  a  condition  of  health  that  the 
brethren  have  felt  that  it  will  be 
possible  for  me  to  fill  a  mission  in 
-a  foreign  land.  I  would  not  under- 
take;  it  if  it  were  any  other  kind  of 
a  mission.  I  know  that  my  Re- 
deemer lives ;  I  know  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  Son  of  God  and  is  ex- 
alted at  the  right  hand  of  his  Fa- 
ther. I  know  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  of  the  Lord.  While 
he  gave  his  temporal  life  in  order 
that  his  testimony  might  be  binding 
upon  the  children  of  men,  I  am  sure 
as  I  stand  here  that  today  he  is  ex- 
alted in  the  presence  of  the  Re- 
deemer, rejoicing  in  the  develop- 
ment that  has  come  to  the  work  of 
the  Lord  since  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  was  restored  to  the  earth 
through  his  humble  instrumentality. 
I  am  grateful  for  the  testimony  that 
burns  in  my  bosom  that  this  is  our 
Father's,  work. 

Be  diligent,  ye  men  of  Israel,  who 
bear  the  Priesthood  of  our  Lord. 
Do  not  think  that  you  can  gain  the 
honor,  the  distinction  and  the  eter- 
nal blessings  that  President  Smith 
will  gain  if  you  do  the  works  that 
are  less  than  he  has  done.  It  is  not 
necessary  that  a  man  should  be  a 
member  of  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve,  or  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church,    in    order    to  obtain  the 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


43 


greatest  blessings  in  the  kingdom 
of  our  heavenly  Father.  These  are 
but  offices  required  in  the  Church, 
and  there  %  are  many  faithful  and 
devoted  men  worthy  to  fill  these  of- 
fices whose  time  and  talents  are 
needed  throughout  the  Church. 
Th^re  are,  in  the  Church  more  good 
men  than  those  occupying  these 
positions,  and  remember  that  in 
the  *  ranks  and  throughout  the 
Church  there  is  ample  opportunity 
for  every  man  and  for  every  woman 
to  do  something  for  the  blessing  of 
their  fellows  and  for^the  advance- 
ment of  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

I  see  sitting  before  me  today  men 
who  have  been  in  the  mission-field 
as  presidents  of  missions,  who  have 
come  her-e  from  their  fields  of  labor, 
honorably  released.  They  have 
performed  yeoman  service;  tl\ey 
have  devoted  themselves  to  the 
blessing  of  God's  children.  They 
have  left,  in  the  fields  from  which 
they  have  come,  men  and  women 
who  bless  them  and  who  will 
remember  them  in  tenderness 
throughout  all  times.  I  feel  in  my 
soul  to  bless  them  and  welcome 
them  home  with  their  loved  ones 
and  pray  that  they  may  have  their 
feet  planted  here  among  their  loved 
ones  in  the  valleys  of  the  moun- 
tains with  the  same  determination 
to  serve  God  and  magnify  their  call- 
ing, as  they  have  manifested  while 
they  have  been  entrusted  with  pre- 
siding offices  in  the  mission-field. 
I  see  before  me  men  who  have  been 
called  to  succeed  them.  I  pray  that 
the  spirit  of  their  calling  may  fall 
upon  them,  that  they  may  feel  the 
inspiration  of  the  Lord  and  fully 
understand  the  necessity  of  doing 
their  duty  as  they  go  to  their  fields 
of  labor,  that  they  may  rejoice  in 
seeing  the  children  of  our  Father 
come  to  him  by  reason  of  their 


faith  and  their  devotion ;  that  they 
may  rejoice,  as  those  who  come 
home  have  rejoiced  and,  if  possible, 
that  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  may 
be  more  abundantly  bestowed  upon 
those  among  whom  they  minister, 
than  has  been  done  in  the  past. 

The  world  is  in  distress,  in  tra- 
vail, from  one  end  of  it  to  the 
other.  Men  and  women  are  looking 
here  and  there,  seeking  where  they 
shall  go  to  do  the  things  that  will 
bring  them  peace.  My  brethren, 
the  authority  of  the  holy  priesthood 
is  upon  the  earth.  The  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  has  been  restored.  The 
truth  revealed  from  heaven  is  here 
and  it "  is  that  truth,'  that  gospel, 
which,  if  the  world  only  knew  it, 
will  be  a  panacea  for  all  their  ills. 
It  is  the  only  thing  that  will  bring 
them  peace  while  they  remain  upon 
the  earth. 

I  find  here  a  short  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  to  which 
I  wish  to  draw  your  attention.  I 
would  like  every  man  who  bears  the 
priesthood  of  our  hea'venly  Father 
to  remember  the  words  of  this  par- 
ticular section.  I  would  like  every 
man  to  apply  it  to  himself,  and*  I 
would  like  every  good  woman  who 
has  received  the  blessings  of  the 
gospel  to  apply  it  to  her  life;  and 
applying  it  to  our  lives,  remember 
that  our  days  are  numbered  and 
that  the  opportunity  to  magnify  our 
calling  will  soon  be  cut  short  here 
in  this  world.  This  is  a  revelation 
given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
in  Harmony,  Susquehanna  county, 
Pennsylvania,  February,  1829: 

"Now  behold,  a  marvelous  work  is 
about  to  to  come  fortk  among  the 
children  of  men; 

"Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in 
•the  service  of  God.  see  that  ye  serve 
him  with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind 
and  strength,  that  ye  may  stand 
blameless  before  God  at  the  last  day:" 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


That  is  what  I  would  Jike  us  to 
remember.  That  is  the  word  of  the 
Lord  unto  Israel,  repeated  again 
this  day  by  one  of  God's  servants. 
The  world  has  need  of  you  and  of 
your  ministry.  There  are  no  other 
men  in  the  world,  outside  this 
Church,  who  have  the  rights  that 
you  have,  and  the  privileges,  and 
no  other  body  of  men  will  have  the 
opportunities  that  come  to  you. 
Now  that  the  time  is  near  at  hand 
when  the  bars  will  be  let  down  and 
the  barriers  overthrown  that  have 
been  raised  to  the  spread  of  the  gos- 
pel, when  the  sound  of  the  voice  of 
the  Lord  shall  come  to  you,  through 
his  servants,  "Prepare  to  go  into 
the  world  and  preach  the  gospel," 
do  not  do  as  Jonah  did,  do  not 
try  to  hide  or  run  away  from  your 
duty;  do  not  make  excuses  that  you 
do  not  have  the  necessary  means  to 
go ;  do  not  set  up  foolish  things 
in  the  way  of  your  vision  that  will 
prevent  your  seeing  eternal  life  in 
the  presence  of  our  heavenly  Fa- 
ther, which  ca"n  come  only  by  reason 
of  faith  and  devotion  in  his  cause. 
Let  every  man  set  his  house  in  or- 
der; let  every  man  who  bears  the 
priesthood,  set  himself  in  order,  and 
when  the  call  comes  from  the  serv- 
ants of  the  Lord,  telling  him  to  go 
into  the  world  to  teach  the  truth,  to 
warn  the  children  of  men,  as  our 
Father  requires  they  shall  be 
warned,  let  no  man  hide  behind 
some  foolish  thing,  to  be  swallowed 
up,  if  not  by  a  great  fish,  by  the 
foolish  things  of  the  world. 

I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  God 
may  burn  in  the  bosoms  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints ;  that  the  love  and 
charity  our  Father  has  for  his  chil- 
dren may  be  ours ;  that  we  may  re- 
joice when  we  see  his  children  un- 
derstanding the  truth  and  that  we 
may  be  willing  to  make  what  may 


sometimes  be  termed  a  sacrifice; 
that  we  may  be  willing  to  make  the 
investment  to  bless  our  kind,  going 
forth  with  all  our  might  to  bring 
light  and  salvation  to  the  children  of 
men  by  preaching  unto  them  the  re- 
stored gospel  of  our  Lord. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
may  have  no-  other  opportunity  of 
saying  goodbye  to  you,  before  I 
leave.  Next  Wednesday  I  expect 
to  take  the  train  to  the  coast  and 
then  across  the  ocean  to  the  field 
to  which  I  have  been  called.  Thank 
God  for  the  opportunity  of  going. 
I  am  grateful  that  the  knowledge  of 
this  truth  has  come  into  my  soul.  I 
am  thankful  for  the  companionship 
of  the  men  by  whom  I  have  been 
surrounded  and  with  whom  I  have 
been  permitted  to  associate.  I  am 
grateful  for  you  and  for  the  kind- 
ness you  have  bestowed  upon  me  as 
I  have  ministered  unto  you  in  your 
homes  in  the  stakes  and  wards  of 
the  land.  God  bless  you  and'  yours 
and  all  Israel.  O,  brothers  and  sis- 
ters, pray  with  all  your  might  that 
the  light  may  enter  into  the  hearts 
of  the  children  of  men;  that  they 
may  turn  from  the  error  of  their 
ways  when  the'  gospel  is  brought  to 
them  by  a  humble  eider;  that  they 
may  understand  the  voice  and  re- 
ceive the  message  and  be  gathered 
out  from  the  nations,  before  the 
Lord  shall  sweep  the  earth  again 
with  his  scourges,  as  he  has  prom- 
ised to  do.  This  is"  but  the  begin- 
ning of  sorrow  and  it  is  your  duty 
and  mine  to  minimise  so  far  as  pos- 
sible, the  sorrows  of  our  Father's 
children,  by  blessing  them  with  the 
message  of  peace,  with  the  gospel 
of  love,  and  call  them  from  the  er- 
ror of  their  ways;  that  they  may 
rejoice  with  us,  if  we  are  faithful, 
in  the  mansions  of  glory  on  high. 
May  the  peace  and  blessing  of  our 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


45 


'leavenly  Father  be  upon  us  all. 
May  we  be  worthy  of  the  opportun- 
ity that  has  come  to  us.  May  we 
see  the  magnitude  of  the  work  we 
have  set  our  hands  to  do  and  re- 
member the  commandment  that  we 
shall  do  it  with  all  our  might,  mind 
and  strength;  that  we  may  stand 
"blameless  before  the  Lord  at  the 
last  day. 

With  all  my  heau,  I  sustain  the 
men  whom  we  have  sustained  today 
— President  Grant  and  his  coun- 
selors-— to  preside  over  us.  They 
have  been  called  by  divine  power; 
they  have  been  sustained  by  this 
great  people,  and  the  Lord  will  sus- 
tain them  in  their  ministry.  They 
are  unselfish  and  they  are  untiring 
in  going  about  doing  good  and 
blessing  those  who  live  upon  the 
earth.  I  honor  them  and  I  love 
them.  I  pray  that  our  Father  will 
bless  them  that  they  may  have  joy 
in  their  ministry.  I  pray  that  these, 
my  brethren  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  whom  I  soon  stiall  leave, 
may  have  joy  in  their  ministry 
wherever  they  may  go.  Brethren 
and  sisters,  welcome  them  into  your 
homes  and  into  the  organized  stakes 
as  they  go  among  you.  They  bring 
to  you  a  message  of  love,  as  also  do 
the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  the 
Patriarch  and  the  presiding  Bishop- 
ric, all  those  who,  <is  general  au- 
thorities of  the  Church  go  to  visit 
you  from  time  to  time.  These  all 
are  our  Father's  servants.  Honor 
them,  sustain  them,  and  bless  them, 
and  our  Father  will  honor  and  sus- 
tain and  bless  you.  I  pray  that  our 
Father  may  grant  unto  you  the 
peace  that  passeth  all  understand- 
ing. 

May  the  joy  of  the  memory  of 
that  devoted  man,  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  m  whose  honor,  in  part 
at  ieast,  we  have  met  here  today, 


remain  with  us.   Let  us  try,  so  far 

as  may  be,  to  measure  up  to  his 
splendid  virtue  and.  bv  and  by — it 
may  not  be  long  for  any  of  us — 
when  the  Father  of  us  all  shall  sum- 
mon us  home,  that  we  may  find 
awaiting  us  on  the  other  shore 
these  splendid  men  and  women  who 
have  honored  God  and  kept  his 
commandments,  who  have  earned 
celestial  glory  in  our  Father's  king- 
dom, that  we  may  rejoice  with 
them  and  they  with  us  throughout 
the  ages  of  eternity,  is  my  desire! 
O  may  the  Lord  bless  us  all;  may 
he  help  us  to  appreciate  the  oppor- 
tunity that  is  placed  in  our  way 
and  give  us  a  burning  desire  to  bless- 
our  kind.  May  we  honor  him  and 
keep  his  commandments,  and  in  the 
end  obtain  eternal  life  and  celestial 
glory  with  our  Father's  children 
wherever  they  may  be  in  the  world, 
who  are  worthy,  is  my  prayer  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 

Tribute  to  President  Joseph  F.  Smith 
— The  elements  of  greatness — 
The  .machinery  and  the  power — 
Anecdote  of  Bishop  Newel  K. 
Whitney — Jeremiah's  call  — Joseph 
and  Sidney's  vision — Church  lead- 
ers past  and  present. 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  was 
not  only  a  Prophet;  he  was  also  a 
Patriarch— a  fatherly  man  in  every 
sense  of  the  term.  Second  only 
to  his  loyalty  and  devotion  to  the 
work  of  God,  was  his  warm  and 
tender  love  for  his  family — his 
wives  and  children.  Their  welfare 
and  happiness  in  time  and  for  all 
eternity  were  his  constant  care. 

And  how  rich  was  his  recom- 
pense! In  all  that  numerous  flock 
of  sons  and  daughters,  not  one 
"black  sheep"  is  to  be  found,  not 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


one  wanderer  from  the  fold  of  the 
Good  Shepherd.  This  reflection 
must  have  been  to  him  an  unfail- 
ing source  of  comfort  and  consola- 
tion. The  divinest  work  of  Divin- 
ity, the  most  Godlike  of  all 
achievements,  is  in  "bringing  to 
pass  the  immortality  and  eternal 
life  of  man."  Next  to  that,  and 
indeed  a  very  part  thereof,  is  the 
rearing  of  a  family  as  President 
Smith  reared  his.  He  fully  real- 
ized that  it  represented  the  nucleus 
and  foundation  of  his  eternal 
glory. 

His  paternal  affection,  though  it 
began  at  home,  did  not  end  there. 
It  went  out  far  beyond  the  bound- 
aries of  his  domestic  domain.  It 
embraced  God's  people  as  a  whole, 
rich  and  poor,  high  and  low.  All 
who  served  the  Lord  were  sharers 
in  his  sympathy  and  esteem. 

Few  things  pleased  the  Presi- 
dent more  than  to  welcome  to  his 
hospitable  home,  or  to  public  halls 
owned  by  the  Church,  his  friends 
and  fellow-laborers,  for  purposes 
of  entertainment.  A  marked  feat- 
ure of  his  administration  was  an 
extended  series  of  receptions,  given 
at  Conference  time,  in  honor  of  the 
veterans  who  drove  ox  teams  or 
pulled  hand  carts  over  the  plains 
in  pre-railroad  days,  or  were  oc- 
cupying posts  of  hardship,  if  not 
of  danger,  in  out  of  the  way  sec- 
tions. 

His  kind  thoughtfulness  for  the 
aged,  and  his  tender  concern  for 
little  children,  were  among  his 
most  pronounced  characteristics. 
He  held  that  children  as  well  as 
men  and  women  have  rights, '  and 
that  these  rights  should  always  be 
respected.  I  was  present  on  one 
occasion  when  he  expressed  him- 
self indignantly  over  the  conduct 
of  a  woman  who,  coming  late  into 


a  public  assembly,  drew  a  child 
out  of  a  seat  that  /  she  wished  to 
occupy.  I  have  known  him  to 
leave  his  place  on  a  railroad  train 
to  speak  a  word  of  comfort  to  a 
poor  old  lady,  whose  feelings  had 
been  hurt  by  an  ill-mannered  con- 
ductor. Once  I  saw  him,  when  an 
excursion  was  about  to  start,  walk 
the  full  length  of  the  crowded  train, 
with  no  apparent  object  but  to  sat- 
isfy himself  that  everyone  else  was 
comfortably  seated;  and  not  until 
every  chick  and  child  was  provided 
for,  did  the  President  of  the 
Church  take  his  seat. 

"Safety  first"  was  his  business 
motto.  He  never  plunged  reck- 
lessly into  an  enterprise,  however 
inviting,  and  always  lnolted  before 
he  leaped.  Like  Longfellow's 
Blacksmith,  he  "owed  not  any 
man,"  and  this  was  ever  his  coun- 
sel to  the  people.  Nor  would  he 
allow  the  Church  to  become  indeb- 
ted for  a  single  dollar  that  it  could 
not  pay  %i  demand.  As  Trustee- 
in-Trust,  he  permitted  no  needless 
expenditure  of  the  funds  entrusted 
to  his  care,  and  he  kept  and  ren- 
dered strict  account  of  all  monies 
or  other  properties  that  came  into 
his  hands  as  custodian.  He  was 
determined  that  the  credit  of  the 
Church,  which  he  had  helped  to 
make  "gilt-edged,"  should  so  re- 
main. 

A  complete  list  of  the  public  works 
connected  with  President  Smith's 
career  would  form  a  lengthy  cata- 
logue. Never  before  in  the  his- 
tory of  the  Latter-day  Saints  was 
there  such  a  building  administra- 
tion. Those  who  criticized  him 
for  what  they  deemed  a  too  active 
narticioation  in  commercial  affairs, 
and  thought  that  he  should  have 
been  engrossed  in  spiritual  things 
to  the  exclusion  of  the  temporal, 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


47 


overlooked  the  fact  that  from  the 
"Mormon"  point  of  view,  the  spir- 
itual includes  the  temporal. 

Every  one  who  truly  knew  Jo- 
seph F.  Smith  recognized  in  him  a 
man  of  mighty  faith  and  religious 
power — a  spiritual  giant.  A  won- 
derfully impressive  public  speaker, 
he  was  deliberate  and  slow  of  ut- 
terance until  aroused,  when  his 
words  came  like  a  torrent,  with 
the  roar  of  the  cataract  or  the 
thunder  peal.  In  forceful  and  ve- 
hement oratory,  or  what  might  be 
termed  emotional  eloquence,  he  had 
no  equal  in  the  Church. 

President  Smith's  dominant 
traits  were  his  unflinching  cour- 
age and  his  unflagging  devotion 
to  duty.  A  man  more  diligent, 
more  industrious,  more  zealous  in 
the  practice  of  the  principles  he- 
professed,  it  would  be  impossible 
to  find.  Honest,  tearless,  and  de- 
termined, he  did  not  court  martyr- 
dom, but  neither  would  he  have 
shrunk  from  it,  had  the  choice  been 
between  death  and  dishonor.  He 
was  an  example  of  moral  recti- 
tude, of  clean  conduct,  of  right  liv- 
ing. His  noble  qualities,  his  illus- 
trious lineage,  and  his  exalted  na- 
tion gave  him  a  prestige  'all  but 
unrivaled  in  the  annals  of  the 
Church  over  which  he  presided. 
From  his  youth  up,  throughout  his 
entire  career,  he  stood  a  stalwart  in 
the  land,  a  man  of  unblemished  in- 
tegrity, a  rock  against  which  the 
billows  of  temptation  beat  and 
dashed  in  vain. 

What  made  Joseph  F.  Smith 
such  a  character?  Two  things:  In 
the  first  place,  he  was  a  big  man — 
big  by  nature,  and  developed  by 
experience.  In  the  next  place,  Gccl 
was  with  him.  The  machinery  is 
one  thing,  and  the  power  that 
moves  the  machinery    is  another. 


The  two  combined  constitute  great  . 
ness. 

Presiding  Bishop  Edward 
Hunter — he  it  was,  if  I  remember 
aright — once  related  to  me  an  an- 
ecdote about  his  predecessor,  my 
grandfather,  Newel  K.  Whitney, 
the  second  man  called  to  the  Bish- 
opric in  this  dispensation.  It  was 
at  Kirtland,  Ohio,  in  December, 
1831.  The  law  of  consecration  had 
been  revealed  and  was  about  to  be 
put  into  operation.  The  properties 
of  the  Saints  had  to  be  consecrated 
for  the  building  up  of  Zion,  and 
Bishops  were  needed  to  handle 
these  properties  and  administer  the 
temporalities  of  the  Church.  Ed- 
ward Partridge  was  the  first  Bish- 
op called,  but''  he  had  been  sent 
down  into  Missouri,  where  the 
foundations  of  Zion  were  laid,  and 
another  Bishop  was  needed  for 
Kirtland, — a  Stake  of  Zion.  The 
Lord  said:  "My  servant  Newel  K. 
Whitney  is  the  man  who  shall  be 
appointed  and  ordained  unto  this 
power."  (Doctrine  &  Covenants 
72:8.)  Newel  K.  Whitney,  stag- 
gering under  the  weight  of  the  re- 
sponsibility that  was  about  to  be 
placed  upon  him,  said  to  the  Proph- 
et: "Brother  Joseph,  I  can't  see  a 
Bishop  in  myself." 

No ;  but  God  could  see  it  in  him. 
He  was  a  natural  Bishop — a  first 
class  man  of  affairs.  Probably  no 
other  incumbent  of  that  important 
office,  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  to 
which  he  eventually  attained,  has 
;been  better  qualified  for  it  than 
Newel  K.  Whitney.  But  he  could 
not  see  it,  and  he  shrank  from  the 
responsibility.  The  Prophet  ans- 
wered :  "Go  and  ask  the  Lord  about 
it."  And  Newel  did  ask  the  Lord, 
and  he  heard  a  voice  from  heaven 
say:  "Thy  strength  is  in  me." 
That  was  enough.  He  accepted  the 


48  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

* 


office,  and  served  in  it  faithfully  to 
the  end  of  his  days — a  period  of 
eighteen  years. 

When  I  heard  this  anecdote,  it 
reminded  me  of  the  Prophet  Jere- 
miah, to  whom  the  word  of  the 
Lord  came,  saying  in  effect :  "Be- 
fore I  formed  thee  in  the  body  I 
knew  thee,  and  I  sanctified  thee 
and  ordained  thee  a  prophet  unto 
the  nations."  But  Jeremiah,  over- 
whelmed by  the  call  to  such  a  re- 
sponsible station,  exclaimed :  "Ah, 
Lord  God,  behold  I  cannot  speak ; 
for  I  am  a  child."  But  the  Lord 
said :  "Say  not,  I  am  a  child,  for 
thou  shalt  go  to  all  that  I  shall  send 
thee,  and  whatsoever  I  command 
thee,  thou  shalt  speak.  *  *  Be  not 
dismayed  at  their  faces  *  *  for 
behold  I  have  made  thee  this  day  a 
defensed  city,  and  an  iron  pillar  and 
brazen  walls  against  the  whole 
land,  against  the  kings  of  Judah, 
against  the  princes  thereof,  against 
the  priests  thereof,  and  against  the 
people  of  the  land.  And  they  shall 
fight  against  thee ; '  but  they  shall 
not  prevail  against  thee ;  for  I  am 
with  thee  saith  the  Lord,  to  deliver 
thee."  (Jer.  1:4-7;  17-19.) 

God  was  with  his  servant, 
Joseph  Smith,  a  man  pf  great  gifts, 
a  mighty  soul,  sent  into  the  world 
to  be  a  prophet,  a  seer  and  a  revela- 
tor.  But  what  could  he  have  done 
if  Gorl  had  not  been  with  him? 
When  Joseph  Smith  and  Sidney 
Bisfdon  saw  that  wonderful  vision 
of  the  celestial,  terrestrial,  and 
Mestial  °dories,  they  said  concern- 
ing it:  "Being  in  the  Spirit,  on  the 
sixteenth  day  of  February,  in  the 
year  of  our  Lord,  1832,  by  the 
power  of  the  Spirit  our  eyes  were 
opened,"  etc.  There  is  the  key.  It 
was  because  God  was  with  them, 
that  they  were  able  to  see  the  Son 
of  God  and  converse  with  him  "in 


the  heavenly  vision."  They  had 
eyes — spiritual  eyes;  they  were 
seers.  But  what  could  they  see 
until  the  Spirit  of  God  came  upon 
them  and  gave  them  the  use  of  the 
seeric  gift?  The  machinery  was 
there,  but  the  power  had  to  be 
turned  on. 

So  it  was  with  Brigham  Young, 
with  John  Taylor,  with  Wilford 
Woodruff,  with  Lorenzo  Snow, 
with  Joseph  F.  Smith ;  and  so  it  is 
with  Heber  J.  Grant,  our  beloved 
President  of  today.  He  has  great 
gifts,  a  big  heart,  a  kind  soul,  and 
because  God  is  with  him  he  will 
do  a  great  and  glorious  work.  But 
without  God,  neither  he  nor  any 
other  man  could  accomplish  any- 
thing worth  while. 

This  is  my  testimony  regarding 
the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church. 
They  are  the  right  men  in  the  right 
place — the  men  for  the  time  and  the 
hour;  and  it  is  for  us  to  stand  by 
them,  to  hold  up  their  hands,  to 
rally  round  them  and  follow  them ; 
and  God's  work  will  triumph,  his 
Kingdom  will  come  in  power  and 
glory,  and  his  holy  will  be  done  on 
earth  even  as  it  is  done  in  heaven. 
Amen. 

The  choir  and  ■  congregation 
sang  one  verse  of:  "The  Spirit  of 
God  like  a  fire  is  burning." 

A  number  of  notices  were  read 
among  them  a  statement  that  the 
choir  would  hold  a  concert  in  the 
Tabernacle,  Friday,  June  6,  5  p.  m., 
when  they  would  present  Mendel- 
sohn's oratorio,  "St.  Paul ;"  the 
Sunday  School  Union  meeting 
would  be  held  this  evening  in  the 
Tabernacle ;  and  a  special  Priest- 
hood meeting  in  the  Assembly  Hall, 
Wednesday,  June  4,  10  a.  m. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 
"Praise." 


HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


49 


The  closing  prayer  was  offered 
by  Elder  Heber  S.  Allen,  of  the 
Taylor  stake. 


SECOND  OVERFLOW 
MEETING. 

A  second  overflow  meeting  was 
held  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  at  2 
o'clock  p.  m.,  Sunday,  June  1,  1919, 
Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  pre- 
siding. 

Music  was  furnished  by  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  University  students 
choir,  directed  by  B.  Cecil  Gates. 

The  choir  and  congregation 
sang:  "Now  let  us  rejoice." 

The  opening  prayer  was  by  El- 
der Harden  Bennion. 

The  choir  sang:  "Remember,  O 
Lord." 

ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 

(Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church). 

As  was  announced  this  morning 
in  our  general  conference,  the  pro- 
gram for  this  afternoon  is  to  .re- 
member both  in  spirit  and  in  word 
the  life,  mission  and  works  of  our 
late  president,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  and 
I  am  very  grateful  for  ^another 
privilege  of  raising  my  voice  in  tes- 
timony concerning  his  life  and  mis- 
sion. 

It  has  been  said  by  a  number  of 
older  men,  that  they  knew  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  that 
they  have  known  all  of  the  presi- 
dents in  their  succession  since  him. 
It  seems  to  me  as  if  I  knew  him, 
because  1  have  seen  and  heard  those 
who  did  see;  hear,  and  know  him, 
ancHp  my  faith  is  just  as  firm  and 
just  as  well  founded,  perhaps,  as  if 
I  had  known  him  and  seen  him  with 


my  own  eyes.  I  believe  in  his  mis- 
sion, and  know  that  he  was  a 
prophet  of  God.  Neither  did  I  see 
his  successor,  President  Brigham 
Young,  because  his  mission  was  fin- 
ished two  years  before  mine  began 
here  upon  the  earth.  So.like  unto  the 
Prophet  Joseph  in  my  life,  the  life 
of  President  Brigham  Young  is  that 
of  memory  and  history  to  me.  But 
I  have  heard  the  voice  of  those  who 
were  in  that  meeting  which  was  re- 
ferred to  by  President  Grant  where 
the  mantle  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
fell  upon  President  Brigham 
Young,  when  some  of  the  people 
were  in  doubt  as  to  who  was  going 
to  lead  the  Church,  after  the  mar- 
tyrdom. 

So  I  feel  that  I  have  really  par- 
taken of  the  gathering  upon  that 
occasion,  and  I  testify  here  that  I 
think  that  the  lives  of  men  and 
women  have  been  spared  to  us,  to 
me  for  instance,  to  hear  their  voices 
in  this  great  testimony  which  estab- 
lished the  fact  in  my  mind,  as  it 
did  in  the  minds  of  hundreds  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  that  it  was  Pres- 
ident Brigham  Young  who  was  to 
lead  the  Church  instead  of  Sidney 
Rigdon  or  any  other  man.  .  I  am 
grateful  that  «the  lives  of  these  men 
and  women  have  been  spared  that  I 
might  hear  their  testimony,  since  I 
did  not  live  in  the  time  when  it  was 
possible  for  me  to  have  attended 
that  meeting  or  to  get  that  testi- 
mony first  hand.  I  have  faith  in 
the  testimonies  of  these  men  and 
women  whom  I  have  mentioned.  I 
mention  particularly  the  life  of 
Aunt  Emmeline  B.  Wells.  I  think 
her  life  has  been  spared  by  the  pow- 
er of  the  Lord,  for  at  least  one  pur- 
pose— that  the  youth  of  Zion  might 
hear  her  testimony,  that  she  was  in 
that  meeting  and  heard  'the  voice  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  from  the  mouth 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


of  President  Brigham  Young.  e  T 
have  also  heard  the  testimony  of 
Patriarch  George  Romney,  whose 
life  has  been  spared,  I  believe,  that 
his  testimony  may  go  forth  among 
ithe  young  people  concerning  that 
same  fact,  and  circumstance. 

I  do  not  remember  President 
Taylor;  although  as  a  small  boy,  I 
may  have  seen  him.  but.  during  his 
presidency  of  the  Church,  his  per- 
sonal mission  did  not  come  into  my 
life,  because  I  did  not  live  in  Salt 
Lake  City,  and  so  I  did  not  get 
acquainted  with  him.  But  I  do 
have  a  distinct  remembrance  of 
President  Wilford  Woodruff.  I 
think  my  first  memory  of  him  was 
when  the  Salt  Lake  temple  was  ded- 
icated. 

I  have  also  a  very  distinct  mem- 
ory of  President  Lorenzo  Snow. 
When  I  was  a  member  of  the 
Church  school  at  Provo,  he  came 
to  the  school,  and  1  remember  tha«t 
a  number  of  small  children  marched 
up  to  the  stand  and  presented  him 
with  flowers ;  and  as  they  passed  by 
he  gave  each  one  a  blessing  by  plac- 
ing his  hand  upon  their  heads.  That 
was  a  very  impressive  memory  in 
my  life. 

I  also  have  a  very  distinct  mem- 
ory of  the  life  of  my  dear  uncle, 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  I 
learned  to  love  him,  although  we 
were  separated  about  three  genera- 
tions. There  are  many  people  in 
the  Church  who,  perhaps,  due  to 
their '  lack  of  acquaintance  of  the 
family  history,  have  taken  me  to  be 
a  member  of  his  family.  But  had  I 
been  an  actual  son  of  his,  he  could 
ndt  have  treated  me  better.  His 
latest  words  to  me  were  to  the  ef- 
fect that  I  was  not  a  real  member  of 
his  family,  but  that  he  felt  towards 
me  as  though  I  were  a  member  of 
his  immediate  family;  also  in  ten- 


derness expressing  his  love  for  me. 
His  kindness  ftoward  me  was  so 
manifest,  I  could  not  help  but  love 
him.  I  was  always  happy  while  in 
his  presence,  and  I  never  had  that 
feeling  of  timidity  or  desire  to  with- 
draw from  him.  There  seemed  to 
be  power  in  his  spirit  that  drew  me 
toward  him  rather  than  repelled 
me  from  him.  I  love  his  memory, 
and  look  upon  his  testimony  and  his 
works  as  those  of  a  prophet  of  the 
Lord,  as  those  of  one  who  was 
among  the  leading  prophets  and 
presidents  of  the  Church  in  all  the 
world. 

I  have  often  contrasted  the 
events  of  history,  when  he  took  rthe 
office  of  president  and  when  he  left 
it.  Outsiders,  as  we  speak  of  non- 
members,  looked  upon  him,  how 
they  hated  him.  Many  of  them  said 
violent  words  about  him ;  and  they 
not  only  said  words  but  they  drew 
hideous  pictures  about  him,  cari- 
catured him,  and  maligned  his  name 
and  family. 

Although  I  was  not  present  upon 
either  of  the  occasions  to  which  I 
shall  refer,  I  have  heard  that  when 
Prest.  Joseph  F.  Smith  was  taken  as 
a  witness  before  the  United  States 
Senate  that  people  in  the  gallery, 
many  of  them  influential  persons 
and  officers  of  the  government  with 
their  friends,  actually  hissed  at  him 
when  he  was  brought  in  before 
<them  as  a  witness;  but  before  the 
close  of  that  great  case,  these  very 
persons,  sought  an  opportunity  to 
pay  respect  to  him. 

Upon  another  occasion,  the  gen- 
ealogists of  Utah  were  gathered  in 
a  great  meeting  in  California,  where 
Kthere  were  many  friends  gathered, 
many  influential  men  and  women 
gathered  in  an  outdoor  mating. 
Many  of  them  were  wearing  their 
hats,  and  when  President  Joseph  F, 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


51 


Smith  arose  and  declared  that  he 
wished  to  speak  to  them  as  a  serv- 
ant^of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  fthose 
men  took  off  their  hats  and  paid 
him  due  reverence,  not  as  just  an 
ordinary  man,  but  as  a  servant  of 
the  Lord  who  was  to  speak  to  them 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  And 
they  gave  reverence  fto  him,  by  un- 
covering their  heads. 

Little  by  little  these  changes  took 
place  until,  as  you  remember,  the 
hour  of  his  funeral,  by  the  procla- 
mation of  the  Governor  of  this 
State,  every  house  of  business, 
every  piece  of  machinery,  almost, 
I'hat  was  run  by  the  state  was  closed 
and  stopped  for  one  hour;  and. not 
only  the  places  of  business  through- 
out the  state,  but  all  men  who  knew 
him,  whether  they  once  hated  him 
or  not,  once  slighted  the  work  that_ 
he  did,  or  fthe  cause  which  he  repre- 
sented, gave  reverence  to  him  and 
his  name,  and  the  work  that  he  rep- 
resented, the  work  of  God.  I  am 
also  told  that  in  the  distant  and  re- 
mote towns  of  this  stette  the  stores 
were  closed.  All  business  was 
closed.  Street  cars  here  in  this  busy 
city  stopped  for  one  hour,  no  mat- 
ter where  they  were,  at  the  given 
time.  Other  tokens  of  respecft  also 
were  shown  to  him.  This  was  a 
wonderful  contrast  to  show  that  the 
people  of  the  world,  not  only  our 
friends,  but  our  very  enemies,  have 
given  honor  to  this  man  "whom 
God  hath  chosen." 

So  I  love  and  bless  his  memory. 
I  join  with  my  fellows  in  praying 
God  to  bless  his  memory,  and  those 
who  shall  live  after  him,  that  his 
teachings  may  live  in  our  hearts, 
that  we  may  honor  them,  and 
through  them  honor  God,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

During  President  Joseph  F.  Smith's 
administration  all  but  three  of  the 
members  have  come  into  their  pres- 
ent positions — Other  great  changes 
that  have  taken  place — Persecution 
turned  to  admiration — The  barren 
places  into  a  veritable  garden  of 
roses — President  Smith's  rise  from  a 
lowly  station  to  the  highest  among 
his  people — His  character  and  life. 

My  feelings  were  greatly  touch- 
ed, as  no  doubt  yours  were  also, 
when,  in  the  Tabernacle  this  morn- 
ing, President  Heber  J.  Grant  took 
the  place  as  presiding  officer,  which 
for  some  seventeen  years  had  been 
occupied  by  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith. 

Last  Thursday  at  the  regular 
weekly  meeting  of  the  First  Presi- 
idency  and  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  President  Grant  explained 
that  all  but  three  of  the  members 
of  the  Council  have  come  into  their 
places  during  the  administration  of 
President  Smith.  "Therefore,"  he 
said,  "it  will  be  very  fitting  for  all 
of  us  to  speak  briefly  in  honor  of 
this  wise  and  now  immortal  man 
and  prophet,  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  at  the  memorial  services 
which  will  be  held  for  him  as  a  por- 
tion of  the  general  conference  next 
Sunday." 

Not  only  are  the  members  of  the 
First  Presidency  and  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  assembled  here 
today  to  do  honor  to  his  memory, 
but  the  presidents  of  nearly  all  the 
stakes,  and  the  bishops  of  nearly 
all  the  wards,  and  the  counselors  to 
all  of  these,  are  also  present.  Of 
these  I  say  what  a  traveling  sister 
recently  said  of  the  presidents  of 
the  stakes :  "I  think  no  finer  band 
of  men  can  be  found  in  all  the 
world." 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


The  heart  of  President  Smith 
must  be  glad  and  gratified  at  this 
hour  if  he  knows  that  all  of  these 
worthy  officials  are  assembled,  and 
so  many  other  thousands  of  the 
members  of  the  Church,  that  three 
great  services  are  being  held  simul- 
taneously in  order  to  accommodate 
the  multitude  that  is  here  for  the 
purpose  of  paying  respect  to  his 
dear  memory. 

During  the  administration  of 
President  Smith  great  changes 
have  come.  The  intense  prejudice 
that  existed  in  the  beginning  has 
disappeared.  The  Patriarch,  in  his 
remarks  has  just  referred  to  con- 
ditions that  existed  at  the  time  of 
the  Smoot  investigation.  Well  do 
I  remember  those  conditions.  I  was 
a  graduate  student  at  Cornell  Uni- 
versity. The  Ithaca  papers  printed 
glaring  headlines  drawing;  atten- 
tion to  the  testimony  and  published 
grotesque  cartoons  of  those  who, 
as  witnesses,  were  being  examined. 
These  were  trying  davs  for  me. 
They  must  have  been  much  more 
trying  for  those  of  our  neoole  who 
were  in  Washington.  The  public 
jeered  at  the  president.  Thev  sooke 
to  him  and  of  him  disrespect  full  v. 
His  keen  sensibilities  were  deeoly 
cut  when  in  derision  they  called  him 
"Prophet  Smith."  But  truth  will 
prevail.  Rie:ht  is  might.  When 
right  and  riehteousncss  really  come 
to  the  attention,  then  are  people 
convinced. 

It  was  but  a  few  vears  after  this 
investigation  that  President  Smith 
went  again  to  the  city  of  Wash- 
ington. Instead  of  being  addressed 
as  "Prophet  Smith."  he  was  greeted 
on  every  hand  with  "Mr.  President, 
I  am  delighted  to  see  you."  The 
Vice-president  of  the  United  States 
said  to  him :  "Mr.  President,  may 
I  have  the  pleasure  of  your  com- 


pany at  the  great  foot-ball  contest 
this  afternoon?" 

Fairy  tales  hardly  draw  pictures 
more  thrilling  than  that  of  the  life 
of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith. 
When,  as  a  boy  at  the  age  of  nine, 
he  dr.ove  an  ox  team  into  Salt  Lake 
Valley,  there  was  here,  I  have 
heard  him  say,  but  one  green  spot. 
If  I  remember  correctly,  he  said 
there-  was  in  sight  but  one  green 
tree  and  that  tree  grew  on  City 
Creek.  This  was  then  a  prairie — 
a  desert.  During  the  seventy  years 
since  his  coming,  barrenness  has 
been  changed  to  beauty.  This  is  to- 
day a  veritable  garden  of  roses.  We 
are  surrounded  with  every  luxury 
and  convenience  of  modern  times. 

The  story  of  the  life  of  President 
Smith  is  not  unlike  the  story  of 
David,  Kin?  of  Israel.  The  Lord 
said  unto  the  Proohet  Samuel : 
"How  Ion?  wilt  thou  mourn  for 
Saul,  seeing-  I  have  rejected  him 
from  reignine  over  Israel?  Fill 
th>ne  horn  with  oil  a"d  pt>.  I  will 
send  thee  to  Jesse, the  Bethlehemite : 
for  I  hnve  provided  me  a  king 
among  his  .sons. 

"Samuel  did  that  which  the  Lord 
spake,  and  came  to  Bethlehem." 

When  Jesse  brought  before  him 
one  of  his  handsome  sons,  tall  and 
erect,  the  Prophet  Samuel  said : 
"Surely  the  Lord's  anointed  is  be- 
fore him." 

"But  the  Lord  said  unto  Samuel, 
look  not  on  his  countenance  or  on 
the  heieht  of  his  stature ;  because  I 
have  refused  him ;  for  the  Lord 
seeth  not  as  man  seeth ;  for  man 
looketh  on  the  outward  appear- 
ance, but  the  Lord  looketh  on  the 
heart."  And  Jesse  brought  another 
son,  and  another,  and  another,  rntil 
seven  had  passed  by. 

Then  Samuel  said_  unto  Jes-e : 
"The  Lord  hath  not  chosen  these. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


53 


Are  here  all  thy  children?"  Jesse 
said :  "There  remaineth  yet  the 
youngest  and  behold  he  keepeth  the 
sheep." 

Who  was  he?  The  carpenter's 
son?  Was  he  the  widow's  boy  that 
drove  the  ox  team  across  the  prairie 
in  1848?  Was  it  the  little  fellow 
who  herded  cows  bare-footed  in 
this  great  valley  long  years  ago? 
"Yes,"  said  Jesse,  "There  remain- 
eth yet  the  youngest  and  behold  he 
keepeth  the  sheep." 

And  Samuel  said  unto  Jesse: 
"Send  and  fetch  him:  for  we  will 
not  sit  down  till  he  come  hither." 

When  the  shepherd  boy  with  the 
ruddy,  handsome  countenance  ap- 
peared, the  Lord  said:  "Arise, 
anoint  him,  for  this  is  he." 

As  it  was  with  the  shepherd 
David,  so  was  it.  with  the  carpen- 
ter's son;  and  so  was  it  with  the 
widow's  son  who  drove  the  ox  team 
into  the  valley,  in  1848.  "The  Lord 
seeth  not  as  man  seeth;  for  man 
looketh  on  the  outward  appearance, 
but  the  Lord  looketh  on  the  heart." 
All  honor  to  the  memory  of  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith,  the  widow's 
son.  Under  his  leadership  and  the 
blessings  of  God,  we  find  ourselves 
today  a  united,  happy  and  prosper- 
ous people. 

The  sterling  strength  and  nature 
of  Joseph  F.  Smith  would  permit 
him  to  make  no  compromise  with 
sin.  On  one  occasion,  he  was  ap- 
proached, by  an  attractive  young 
woman,  a  member  of  the  Church, 
who  said :  "My  profession  brings 
me  on  the  stage  where  short  sleeves 
and  low  necks  are  a  positive  neces- 
sity. Is  it  not  possible  in  my  case 
to  have  the  regulations  of  the 
Church  slightly  modified  ?  Are  you 
going  to  require  me  to  live  in  the 
same   strict    conformity   with  the 


technicalities  of  the  gospel  in  this 
respect  as  you  do  others?" 

Some  might  ask  the  president: 
"In  my  case,  may  I  not  take  just  a 
little  tea?"  Or  another  in  poor 
health  might  say:  "May  I  not  be 
permitted  to  take  just  a  little  cof- 
fee?" Still  another  might  ask:  "In 
this  one  case,  will  you  not  permit 
me  to  take  just  a  little  liquor?"  Still 
others :  "Is  it  necessary  for  me  in 
my  condition  to  remember  the  Lord 
every  night  and  morning  in  my 
family  and  secret  prayers?" 

To  all  such  questions  as  these, 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith  would 
reply,  as  he  did  to  the  charming  lit- 
tle lady :  "My  dear  little  girl,  if  you 
do  any  of  these  things,  you  must  do 
lb  em  on  your  own  responsibility." 

One  of  the  great  lecturers  speak- 
ing before  the  Bonneville  Club,  at 
the  Hotel  Utah  recently,  said : 
"After  the  names  in  your  city  direc- 
tory or  telephone  book  you  fre- 
quently find  such  words  as  doctor, 
merchant,  dentist,  lawyer,  engineer, 
etc.,  etc.  These  words  do  not  indi- 
cate the  main  business  of  those 
whose  names  they  follow.  They 
only  indicate  their  sidelines.  The 
main  business  of  every  man  and  the 
main  business  of  every  woman  is 
the  rearing  of  a  family." 

There  is  no  part  of  the  excellent 
life  and  labor  of  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith  that  he  did  with  more  pro- 
•  nounced  success  than  he  performed 
this,  the  main  business  of  his  life, 
the  rearing  of  his  family.  History, 
ancient  or  modern,  does  not  record 
a  more  perfect  example  of  man's 
first  and  highest  duty  well  done 
than  that  of  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith  in  the  rearing  of  his  large 
and  worthy  and  wonderful  pos- 
terity. 

For  this  good  man  and  for  his 
good  life  and  wise  leadership  our 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


hearts  are  full  of  gratitude.  May 
we  put  forth  successful  efforts  to 
follow  hfs  teachings  and  his  worthy- 
example.  Every  feature  of  his  life, 
is  an  inspiration. 

The  L.  D.  S.  U.  Glee  Club  sang: 
"I  waited  before  the  Lord." 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

Faith  emphasized  and  made  plain  in 
the  life  of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith 
— His  life  and  words  forceful  and 
powerful — An  erecter  of  standards 
and  respecter  of  law — Few  could 
equal  his  record  of  service — As  a 
father  and  husband,  he  had  few,  if 
any  equals — He  was  a  home-builder 
— As  a  preacher  of  righteousness,  he 
held  first  place  among  us — His  was 
the  strength  of  being  clean  and  he 
abhorejj  impurity  and  evil  habits — 
His  main  influence  for  good  upon 
the  thousands  who  heard  and  loved 
him. 

I  can  hope,  at  best,  to  make  but 
little  contribution  to  the  splendid 
eulogies  that  have  been  paid  to  our 
late  President.  I  do  not  hesitate, 
however,  to  respond  with  some  little 
feeling  of  satisfaction  as  well  as 
trepidation  to  the  call  which  gives 
me  the  opportunity  of  acknowledg- 
ing, in  some  measure  at  least,  my 
obligation  to  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  a  debt  of  gratitude  to  him 
that  I  feel  I  cannot  express,  and  I 
can  scarcely  ever  hope  to  repay. 

I  believe  that  every  man  and 
every  woman  requires  an  ideal. 
President  Smith  was  my  ideal  in 
so  many  respects  that  I  have  a  very 
large  obligation  to  him  for  the  lead- 
ing of  my  life  and  for  the  inculca- 
tion of  the  principles  which  have 
controlled  it.  He  was  my  ideal  in 
nearly  every  respect.  He  so  em- 
bodied in  his  life  the  great  princi- 
ples which  I  hold  dear  that  he  gave 
them  a  significance  and  a  meaning 
and  a  tangibility  that  they  could 


have  had  in  no  other  way.  I  be- 
lieve that  he  was  the  greatest  liv- 
ing exponent  of  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  that  we  have 
known,  at  least  in  our  day  and  gen- 
eration. So  perfectly,  indeed,  did 
he  incorporate  into  his  life  the 
great  principles  to  which  he  dedi- 
cated himself  and  his  effort,  that 
those  principles  were  vitalized  and 
made  plain  and  sacred  in  his  living, 
to  an  extent  seldom  achieved  in  the 
life  of  any  man.  When  I  think  of 
the  great  principle  of  faith,  I  im- 
mediately think  of  the  manner  in 
which  that  principle  was  made  plain 
and  tangible  in  the  life  of  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith.  He  was  the 
very  incarnation  of  faith.  He  made 
faith  a  plain,  livable  principle  of  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
That  great  principle  which  is  at  the 
foundation  of  all  religious  life  ra- 
diated from  his  very  person.  When 
you  heard  him  bear  testimony  of 
the  truth  and  give  expression  to 
the  faith  that  was  in  his  soul,  you 
never  doubted,  not  for  a  moment, 
the  truth  of  that  which  he  felt  and 
that  which  he  spoke.  It  seemed  so 
perfectly  plain  to  him  that  he  in 
turn  could  make  it  plain  to  others. 

When  you  think  of  the  other 
great  principles  of  the  gospel — re- 
pentance, the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and 
prayer,  and  other  fundamental 
truths,  you  cannot  dis-associate 
those  principles  from  the  life  and 
attributes  of  Joseph  F.  Smith.  He 
taught  them  in  the  one  great  way 
that  all  great  principles  of  truth 
must  be  taught,  in  order  to  be  effec- 
tive in  the  lives  of  men,  by  living 
them.  Great  as  were  his  words, 
potential  as  was  the  great  message 
that  he  always  had  to  bear' to  the 
people,  his  words  and  his  message 
were  never  so  forceful  or  so  pow- 
erful as  was  the  sermon'  of  his  life 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


55 


and  his  works.  Above  all  other 
men  that  I  have  ever  known  he  ad- 
hered to  the  very  letter  of  the  law 
of  the  gospel.  With  him  there  was 
no  deviation  from  truth.  As  has 
been  well  said,  he  could  never  com- 
promise with  sin  in  the  least  de- 
gree, and  yet  he  was  possessed  of 
that  marvelous  faculty  of  being 
kind  and  considerate  and  compas- 
sionate with  the  sinner,  but  uncom- 
promising and  intolerant  with  and 
of  the  sin.  He  would  never  deviate 
from  the  strict  path  of  righteous- 
ness. And  yet  to  those  who  had 
sinned,  he  held  out  more  of  hope 
and  mercy,  of  encouragement  in 
repentance,  more  of  kindness,  more 
of  sympathy  and  true  love  than 
most  any  other  man  I  have  ever 
known. 

President  Smith  possessed  that 
rare  combination  of  upholding  all 
the  laws  and  standards  of  the 
Church  and  of  the  gospel,  and  at 
the  same  time  extending  the  hand 
of  helpfulness  to  those  who  needed 
help.  Such  were  his  remarkable 
traits  of  character  that  he  was  in- 
deed a  friend  to  every  man,  and  a 
truer,  a  juster,  a  kinder  man,  and 
more  considerate  friend,  has  never 
graced  this  earth  than  our  late 
President.  His  friendship  was  of 
that  fine  quality  that  always  led  his 
friends  up,  and  never  under  any 
circumstances  encouraged  them  to 
do  that  which  was  not  in  accord- 
ance with  the  truth  and  the  law  of 
the  Church  and  the  gospel.  Every 
man  who  really  knew  him,  loved 
him.  Those  who  did  not  know  him 
came  \o  love  him  as  they  became 
more  intimate  with  his  real  motives, 
and  as  they  understood  better  the 
high  principles  for  which  he  con- 
stantly stood.  I  believe  that  Goa 
so  mixed  up  the  elements  in  him 
that  he  was  able  to  stand  all  of  the 


temptations,  all  of  the  distresses, 
all  of  the  sorrows  and  joys  of  life 
in  a  manner  that  has  no  parallel 
among  our  generation. 

Bishop  Nibley,  I  think  it  wa«, 
standing  at  his  grave,  said  he  was 
the  greatest  man  in  the  world.  I  be- 
lieve that  he  was.  I  be- 
lieve that  from  every  standpoint 
he  came  more  nearly  measuring  up 
to  the  stature  of  a  man  made  in  the 
image  of  God  than  any  other  man 
on  God's  footstool.  It  means  a 
great  deal  to  us.  I  recognize  the 
fact  that  in  our  admiration  and  love 
we  are  apt  to  be  extravagant  in  our 
praise  and  in  our  tribute,  but  1 
think  that  it  is  only  the  truth  to  say 
that  there  are  no  greater  men  than 
our  late  beloved  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith. 

I  care  not  from  what  angle  you 
view  his  life.  If  you  will  consider 
his  life  and  his  public  career,  as  a 
public  teacher  of  the  people,  as  a 
servant  in  the  cause  of  humanity, 
there  are  but  few  who  could  equal 
the  record  of  service  that  he  has 
made.  Indeed,  so  devotedly  did  he 
work  for  the  welfare  of  the  state, 
for  the  welfare  and  the  uplift  of  his 
people  that  during  the  greater  poi- 
tion.of  his  life  he  gave  his  whole 
effort  to  the  good  of  the  common 
cause. 

I  think  it  was  President  Grant 
who  said  the  other  day  that  not  un- 
til long  after  he  had  been  made  the 
President  of  the  Church  did  he 
ever  occupy  any  business  positions 
that  brought  personal  emolument 
to  him.  All  that  he  had  and  all 
that  he  was  he  gave  to  the  people. 
He  believed  in  service.  He  believed 
in  that  devoted  service  which  gives 
one's  whole  life  to  the  people  and  so 
he  gave  his  life.  He  was  the  great- 
est of  all  public  servants  in  this,  that 
he  served  the  souls  of  men.    He  • 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


sought  to  raise  the  standard  of  liv- 
ing. He  sought  to  impress  the 
glorious  principles  of  the  gospel  of 
truth  on  the  lives  of  men  and  wo- 
men, to  raise  their  standards  of  life 
and  to  enable  them  to  conform  their 
lives  with  the  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel ;  and  all  that  he  could  do  for 
this  cause  he  did  do.  No  man  could 
do  more. 

As  a  father  and  a  husband,  as 
Brother  Lyman  has  just  remarked, 
he  had  but  few  if  any  equals  in  the 
history  of  all  time.  I  have  had  the 
opportunity  of  being  somewhat  inti- 
mate in  his  homes,  and  know  some- 
thing of  the  love  which  he  ha'1  ior 
his  wives  and  his  children.  I  have 
seen  the  expression  of  that  love  !n 
his  homes,  and  have  seen  the  love 
that  he  gave  reciprocated  in  tht 
hearts  and  the  actions  of  those  who 
loved  him.  Indeed,  I  never  knew  a 
man  who  had  a  stronger  love  tor 
his  home  than  did  the  President, 
and  I  never  knew  a  man  whose  fam- 
ily  loved  him  more  than  did  his 
wives  and  his  children.  I  have  seen 
him  go  about  among  his  homes,  and 
he  had  a  large  family  as  you  know, 
when  at  the  close  of  a  day  his  pow- 
ers were  well  nigh  exhausted, 
when  he  had  worked  from  early 
morning  until  late  at  night,  go  from 
home  to  home  to  plant  the  loving 
kiss  of  a  father  upon  his  children 
and  his  wives  in  recognition  of  the 
great  love  that  he  bore  them.  And 
this  love  was  the  bond  that  bouna 
them  to  him  and  to  each  other ;  ana 
I  think  it  may  well  be  said  in  trutn 
and  with  propriety  that  there  are  no 
finer  families  in  all  the  land  than 
the  large,  splendid  family  of  Joseph 
F.  Smith. 

He  was  a  home  builder.  In  this 
respect  as  in  other  respects  he  has 
set  a  glorious  example  to  the  world. 
He  has  taught  that  good  homes  are 


at  the  foundation  of  all  that  is  best 
in  life ;  that  the  nation  itself  can 
never  hope  to  accomplish  and 
achieve  its  great  destiny  unless  the 
homes  of  the  people  are  right ;  that 
the  home  is  the  foundation  of  so- 
ciety ;  and  he  set  the  example  by 
making  a  home  from  which  gooa 
citizens  came,  from  which  Latter- 
day  Saints  came,  where  could  be 
found  always  the  spirit  of  the  gos- 
pel, and  wherein  are  taught  the 
things  of  God,  and  wherein  are 
oracticed  deeds  of  righteousness. 
So  that  in  his  public  life  and  in  his 
private  life  he  was  the  great  exem- 
plar of  the  truth  of  the  principles 
of  the  o"osrel  of  Jesus  Christ.  He 
vitalized  those  principles,  by  living 
them.  He  made  it  plain  for  men 
and  for  women,  that  they  can  live 
the  principles  of  the  gospel  individ- 
ually. He  taught  them  that  the 
beauties  and  the  glories  of  the  king- 
dom of  God  are  to  be  ha'l  by  those 
who  will  conform  their  lives  to  the 
commandments. 

As  an  advocate  of  truth,  it  has 
been  well  said  President  Joseph  .F. 
Smith  was  well  nigh  without  an 
equal.  As  a  preacher  of  righteous- 
ness he  held  first  place  among  us. 
His  burning  words  have  entered 
the  hearts  of  those  who  have  saf 
under  his  voice  and  have  stimulated 
them  to  higher  deeds  and  to  better 
Ihes.  Why, -I  have  heard  his  voice 
ring  out  under  the  inspiration' ol 
God,  in  those  majestic  tones  of  his, 
in  such  a  manner  as  to  fairly  raise 
the  audience  from  their  seats.  You 
could  well  imagine  men  and  women 
rising  to  their  feet  as  he  expounded 
the  glories  of  the  kingdom  and  cry, 
"Glory  to  God"  for  the  way  in 
which  he  expounded  the  principles 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

He  was  not  a  learned  man  in  the 
ordinary  acceptation  of  that  term. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


57 


He  had  not  attended  schools  and 
colleges  and  universities,  but  he 
was  learned  in  the  great  school  of 
experience.  He  was  truly  edu- 
cated. All  the  latent  faculties  that 
God  had  given  to  him  had  been 
•developed  and  had  been  augmented 
until  they  had  reached  the  very 
full  measure  of  their  power,  and 
that  is  real  education.  That  is  real 
training.  He  was  truly  cultured, 
truly  refined,  a  gentleman  of  the 
hiehest  type  and  order.  All  his 
thoughts  and  his  s.oeech  and  his 
life  were  clean  and  wholesome  and 
u  pi  if  tine. 

I  think  perhaps  one  of  the  pre- 
dominant traits  of  his  life  was  his 
absolute  cleanliness.    He  was  clean 

bpflv.  he  was  clean  in  mind,  and 
he  was  clean  and  pure  in  his  soul. 
The  strength  of  being  clean  was  his. 

vielded  obedience  to  the  laws 
of  the  g-osnel  which  require  men  to 
^e  clean  and  pure.    He  never  took 

i"to  his  bpdv  pnvthin0"  thflt  would 

pollute  it,  anything  that  would  dese- 
crate it.  He  was  the  most  force- 
ful of  all  the  teachers  of  the  Worn 
of  Wisdom,  because  he  lived  the 
law  a)]  his  life  to  the  verv  lettd, 
and  his  family  lived  it.  He  taught 
it.  He  abhored  things  that  were 
impure  and  obnoxious  to  the  body. 
He  believed  that  the  tabernacles 
which  Gor'  has  given  us  in  which 
to  house  these  God-given  spirits  of 
ours  were  sacred .  in  the  '  sight  of 
God,  and  he  would  no  more  have 
desecrated  his  body  than  he  would 
have  desecrated  the  temple  of  the 
Most  High.  "Such  was  his  faith, 
and  such  his  belief  in  this  divinely 
given  body  of  ours.  I  remember 
how  he  abhored  the  filthy  habits  of 
drinking  and  of  smoking,  or  any  of 
the  habits  which  did  not  conform 
to  the  laws  of  the  gospel.  I  remem- 
ber how  he  inveighed  against  them, 


and  yet  he  loved  men  and  women. 
And  while  at  times  he  may  have 
seemed  harsh  in.  the  condemnation 
of^hese  practices  and  in  the  con- 
demnation of  those,  too,  who  per- 
sisted in  the  practice  of  these  things, 
he  loved  men  and  women  with  his 
whole  soul.  He  would  strive  for 
them.  He  would  pray  for 
them.  He  would  recall  them  from 
their  sins  and  their  troubles  if  he 
could.  I  know  of  no  man  who 
would  have  gone  farther  than  he 
to  have  reclaimed  one  who  had  fal- 
len. Such  were  his  remarkable 
characteristics  that  he  seemed 
friend  to  everybody  at  all  times.  I 
know  that  throughout  his  whole  lile 
he  was  pure  and  immaculate  from 
sin,  a"d  iust  as  freely  yielded  obedi- 
ence to  all  the  laws  of  the  gospel, 
just  so  freely  did  God  give  to  him 
""wer.  Just  so  did  God  magnify 
hi"i  and  make  him  great  and 
miehtv,  giving  him  a  power  that 
has  scarcelv  been  known  among  our 
own  people  as  among  any  other  peo- 
ple, to  draw  men  to  him  and  to  im- 
press them  with  the  greatness  ot 
the  principles  and  doctrines  of  the 
~ocne]  which  he  so  perfectly  lived. 

I  want  to  say,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  T  am  indebted  to  Presi- 
dent Toseph  F.  Smith  for  the  best 
ideals  in  mv  life.  I  am  indebted 
to  him  in  large  measure  for  my 
"■equine  love  of  the  truth.  I  have 
taken  the  best  course,  that  is,  the 
best  course  that  I  have  taken,  in 
large  measure  because  of  the  splen- 
did example  that  he  set.  Never  did 
he  meet  me  and  shake  my  hand 
without  thrilling  me  with  his  own 
goodness  and  with  the  desire  to  try 
to  emulate,  .in  small  measure  at 
least,  the  splendid  example  that  he 
set.  Never  have  I  seen  his  venera- 
ble face  without  being  encouraged 
in  the  work  of  God.    Never  have 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  heard  him  announce  the  great 
truths  of  the  gospel  without  being 
built  up  in  my  most  holy  faith.  I 
don't  know  how  I*  can  hope  to  pay 
the  debt  that  I  owe  to  him,  unless 
it  be,  perchance,  to  try  to  do  the 
work  that  he  loved  so  well  and  to 
which  he  gave  his  life  and  his  all. 
I  don't  know  how  I  can  ever  in  any 
measure  repay  him  for  the  influ- 
ence which  he  has  had  upon  my  life, 
unless  it  be  by  doing  the  things  that 
he  called  me  to  do,  and  by  attempt- 
ing to  serve  in  my  weak  way  in  the 
same  manner  in  which  he  served  in 
his  most  efficient  way. 

I  loved  him  as  a  son  loves  a 
father.  I  was  present  at  his  home 
the  day  that  he  died,  or  at  least  the 
night  before.  I  remember  shaking 
hands  with  him,  and  saying  what 
I  felt  must  be  my  last  goodbye  to 
him.  As  I  shook  his  hand  he  drew 
me  to  him,  and  he  planted  upon  my 
lips  a  kiss  that  I  can  never  forget. 
I  shall  try  as  long  as  the  memory 
of  that  embrace  remains  with  me  to 
live  true  to  the  great  principles 
which  he  so  loved,  ana  while  I  can- 
not do  one  single  thing  to  help  him, 
while  I  cannot  do  one  single  thing 
to  add  to  his '  greatness  or  to  the 
love  which  you  bore  for  him,  all 
that  I  can  do  is  to  dedicate  and  con- 
secrate my  life,  my  service,  what- 
ever talent  God  has  given  me,  it> 
the  great  cause  which  he  loved  and 
for  which  he  gave  his  noble  life. 

If  he  has  helped  you,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  as  he  has  helped  me, 
will  you  not  join  with  me  in  the 
very  high  resolve  to  dedicate  our 
lives  and  our  services  to  the  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ,  to  uphold  the 
high"  standards  that  he  upheld,  and 
to  the  very  close  of  our  days  to  love 
God  as  he  loved  God,  to  be  parents 
such  as  was  he,  and  to  love  human- 
ity with  that  same  tender  devotion 


and  love  that  he  exhibited  toward 
all  men?  To  this  end,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  may  we  devote  our- 
selves, lending  all  our  might,  our 
strength  and  the  best  that  is  within 
us,  I  humbly  pray  God,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

No  chance  in  the  call  of  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith — One  of  the  real 
apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ — 
The  living  embodiment  of  the  truth 
that  schools  and  colleges  'do  not 
make  the  scholar — A  missionary 
from  boyhood  and  a  missionary  to- 
day. 

"Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto 
me,  Abraham,  the  intelligences  that 
were  organized  before  the  world 
was,-and  among  all  these  there  were 
many  of  the  noble  and  great  ones. 
And  God  saw  these  souls,  that  they 
were  good ;  and  he  stood  in  the 
midst  of  them,  and  he  said,  These  I 
will  make  my  rulers.  For  he  stood 
among  those  that  were  spirits,  and 
he  saw  that  they  were  good  ;  and  he 
said  unto  me,  Abraham,  thou  art 
one  of  them,  thou  wast  chosen  be- 
fore thou  wast  born." 

If  you  will  substitute  the  name  of 
our  modern  prophet  for  the  ancient 
patriarch,  you  will  nave  a  concep- 
tion of  my  firm  belief  as  to  the  pri- 
meval state  and  the  ante-mortal  ex- 
istence of  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith.  There  was  no  chance  in  his 
call.  The  barefoot  boy,  the  15  year 
old  missionary  on  the  islands  of  the 
sea,  the  more  experienced  and  ma- 
ture proclaimer  of  the  gospel  in  this 
and  in  distant  lands,  each  was  the 
prophet  in  the  making,  the  leader 
school,  the  ruler  in  preparation.  • 

We  do  but  honor  ourselves  in 
thus  assembling  to  pay  tribute  to  his 
memory.  Do  you  think  that  our 
feeble  words  can  alter  his  status? 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


59 


Do  you  think  that  this  memorial  ser- 
vice is  held  for  him?  I  pray  you 
consider.  He  could  withstand  such 
inexcusable  forgetfulness  on  our 
part  as  would  have  been  manifest  in 
letting  the  occasion  pass  unmarked ; 
but  we  cannot  do  it,  for  our  own 
self-respect ;  nor  could  we  quell  the 
desire  in  our  heart,  springing  from 
the  well  of  living  water  and  gen- 
uine love  for  our  dear  departed 
brother  and  leader,  to  permit  the 
time  to  pass  without  some  expres- 
sion from  us  as  to  the  lessons  he 
has  taught,  fie  was  a  man  such 
as  the  prophets  foresaw  and  whom 
they  foretold. 

In  the  inspired  writing  of  the 
Scripture  of  these  days,  days  of 
fulness,  days  of  relative  finality,  the 
days  immediately  preceding  the 
coming  of  Christ  the  Lord,  tell  of 
the  spirit  of  hatred  that  would  be 
abroad.  '  They  tell  of  the  confusion 
that  would  be  rife ;  thev  tell  of  the 
blessings  that  God  would  give  unto 
the  world  ;  and  chief  among  these 
was  the  blessing  of  real  men.  Don't 
you  remember  His  promise.  "Be- 
hold I  will  make  a  man  more 
precious  than  fine  gold,  even  a  man 
than  the  golden  wedge  of  Ophir." 
Such  gift  found  a  realization  in 
the  nerson  and  ministry  of  Presi- 
\  dent  Joseph  F.  Smith.  No  man  can 
ever  take  his  place.  Thece  is  a 
uniqueness  about  the  real  prophet, 
the  prophet  of  God.  He  has  no 
successor,  and  by  the  same  rule  he 
had  no  predecessor.  True,  other 
men  may  have  filled  the  office  that 
this  one  filled,  as  other  men  shall 
fill  the  place  after  he  departs ;  but 
there  is  a  distinctiveness  about  each 
of  God's  leaders  that  makes  his 
place  sacred.  And  yet  shall  there 
be  other  crochets  in  Zion  as  there 
have  been  miehtv  ones  in  the  past ; 
but  no  one  has  filled  the  place  of 


the  other.  Without  the  special  min- 
istry of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  could  not  be,  and 
therefore  would  not  be,  what-  it  is 
today.  He  was  foreappointed  and 
foreordained  for  the  particular 
work  of  his  epoch,  of  the  work  and 
ministry. 

I  shall  not  repeat  the  many  things 
in  the  way  of  personal  experiences 
with  President  Joseph  F.  Smith 
that  make  me  sure  he  was  the  great 
man  we  have  had  portrayed  before 
us ;  but  I  do  bear  witness  to  you 
that  Joseph  F.  Smith  was  one  of  the 
real  apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  I  have  listened  to  his  ring- 
ing words  of  testimony  and  warn- 
ing before  the  assemblies  of  thou- 
sands, and  I  have  sat  with  him,  on 
very  rare  occasions,  alone ;  and  on 
occasions  less  rare,  but  still  not  com- 
mon, with  my  brethren  and  asso- 
ciates, I  have  heard  him  preach  in 
conversation,  and  I  have  never  seen 
his  face  so  enlightened  nor  his 
frame  so  thrilled  with  power  as 
when  he  was  bearing  testimony  ,  of 
the  Christ.  He  seemed  to  me  to 
know  Jesus  Christ  as  a  man  knows 
his  friend. 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  has 
been  referred  to  on  many  an -occa- 
sion as  one  of  the  last  links  con- 
necting the  present  generation  with 
that  of  the  early  days  of  the 
Church.  But  though  that  speaks 
of  the  long  ago  when  measured  in 
terms  of  years,  did  you  ever  think 
of  the  marvellous  fact  that  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith  was  always 
fully  abreast  of  the  times  ?  He  was 
never  behind,  but  always  up  to  date, 
and  down  to  date,  in  everything 
that  was  good.  There  was  no  cling- 
ing to  old  fashioned  methods  when 
better  means  had  been  evolved  and 
proved  practical  with  him.  Scores 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


of  times  before  he  passed  away  I 
said,  as  now  I  shall  venture  to  say 
again,  he  was  the  living  embodi- 
ment of  the  truth  that  schools  and 
colleges  do  not  make  the  scholar 
To  me  he  was  one  of  the  best  read 
men  with  whom  I  have  had  <to  do 
and  deal.  Did  you  ever  hear  him 
use  faulty  language,  poor  English? 
He  was  no  orator,  and  I  am  glad 
of  it,  for  to  him  oratory  and  all 
associated  with  the  name  bore  the 
tinge  of  bombast  and  verbal  dis- 
play, and  he  did  not  know  how  to 
talk  in  painted  color  pictures ;  burt 
he  possessed  that  gift  which  is  as 
far  above  oratory  as  prophecy  is 
above  necromancy,  the  gift  of  elo- 
quence. He  did  not  speak  to  the 
ears,  but  right  straight  to  the 
hearts  of  men. 

Well,  where  is  he  now?  He  was 
permitted  shortly  before  his  pass- 
ing to  have  a  glimpse  into  the  here- 
after, and  to  learn  where  he  would 
soon  be  at  work.  He  was  a  preacher 
of  righteousness  on  earth,  he  is  a 
preacher  of  righfteousness  today. 
He  was  a  missionary  from  his  boy- 
hood up,  and  he  is  a  missionary  to- 
day amongst  those  who  have  not 
yet  heard  the  gospel,  though  they 
have  passed  from  mortality  into  the 
spirit  world.  I  cannot  conceive  of 
him  as  otherwise  than  busily  en- 
gaged in  the  work  of  'the  Master. 
And  had  any  one  tried,  or  should 
any  one  now  try  to  distract  his  at- 
tention and  lead  him  into  other 
paths,  he  could  answer  without  sac- 
'  rilege  in  the  very  words  of  the  Mas- 
ter: Wis<t  ye  not  that  I  must  be 
about  my  Father's  business,  who  is 
in  heaven. 

The  Lord  enable  Us  to  be  in  a 
measure  like  unto  him,  fit  to  take 
his  hand  and  deserving  of  a  smile 
from  his  countenance  when  we  shall 
meet   him   again,  I  pray,  in  the 


name  of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER    JOSEPH  FIELDING 
SMITH 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  not 
my  purpose  to  detain  you.  Matters 
this  afternoon  come  home  to  me 
with  such  force  that  I  feel  that  I 
vvtould  not  dare  to  undertake  to 
express  myself,  nor  could  I  do  it, 
I  think,  if  I  .should  try.  All  that 
I  desire  to  say  is,  amen  to  that 
which  has  been  spoken  by  the 
brethren  who  have  occupied  the 
time. 

The  choir  and  congregation 
sang:  "Do  what  is  right." 

Benediction  by  Elder  Arthur  F. 
Barnes. 


OUTDOOR  MEETING. 

An  open  air  meeting  was  held  at 
the  Bureau  of  Information  Build- 
ing at  2  o'clock  p.  m.,  Sunday, 
June  1,  1919,  Elder  Melvin  J.  Bal- 
lard, of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
presiding. 

Music  was  furnished  by  the  Bel- 
Canto  Ladies'  Glee  Club,  Ivie  En- 
sign conductor. 

The  Glee  Club  and  congregation 
sang:  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  / 
a  prophet." 

Prayer   was   offered   by  Elder 
Henry  H.  Rolapp. 

The  Glee  Club  sang:"  "Perfect 
Prayer." 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

In  harmony  with  the  announce- 
ment of  President  Grant  this 
ynofning,  and  in  continuation  of 
the  spirit  of  this  morning's  meet- 
ing, the  meetings  this  afternoon 
will  be  devoted  in  further  tribute 
to  the  memory    of  our    late  de- 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


61 


parted  leader,  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith. 

I  take  pleasure  in  introducing 
to  you  a  man  whom  you  all  well 
know,  Bishop  Charles  W.  Nibley. 
Perhaps  no  man  in  the  Church 
knew  President  Smith  better,  was 
more  intimately  acquainted  with 
him,  than  was  our  worthy  bishop, 
who  will  now  address  us. 

ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

(Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church.) 

I  am  asked  to  perform  what  to 
me  is  a  rather  difficult  task,  at  this 
memorial  service  for  the  late  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith.  I  knew  him 
very  intimately.  Forty-two  years 
ago,  when  I  was  a  young  man,  he 
called  me  to  go  with  him  to  Liver- 
pool, England,  there  to  take  charge 
under  his  direction,  of  the  business 
affairs  of  the  European  mission. 
From  that  day  until  the  day  of 
his  death,  I  knew  him  well.  I 
know  his  history,  I  know  his  fam- 
ily, I  have  lived  in  his  home — been, 
indeed,  as  a  member  ot  his  family ; 
and  so  I  can  speak  of  him  as  I 
know  him. 

Joseph  F.  Smith  was  one  man 
picked  out  of  millions  of  men.  There 
was  none  like  him.  In  his  particu- 
lar .sphere,  in  his  life  and  his  life's 
•work,  I  think  that  as  an  exemplar 
he  has  never  been  equalled.  I 
know  that  is  high  praise,  and  I  do 
not  wish  to  make  any  comparisons 
with  others,  but  to  me  he  was  the 
most  God-like,  the  most  God-fear- 
ing, and  the  least  man-fearing  of 
any  man  I  ever  knew  in  all  my 
days. 

He  had  a  perfect  knowledge  of 
the  truth  of  this  great  Latter-day 
work.  He  had  endured  much  for 
it,  he  had  sacrificed  much — losing 


his  father  when  he  was  not  yet  six 
years  of  age,  losing  his  mother 
when  he  was  twelve  or  thirteen 
years  of  age,  going  alone,  so  to 
speak,  in  the  world,  with  only 
friends  who  knew  his  father  and 
mother  to  look  after  him.  Presi- 
dent Young  took  him  under  his 
care,  or  at  least  had  a  watchful 
eye  over  him;  and  in  early  days, 
as  you  know,  sent  him  on  a  mission 
to  the  Sandwich  Isfands,  when  the 
boy  was  but  fifteen  years  of  age. 

I  have  heard  him  tell  how, 
journeying  down  through  the 
southern  country  to  Los  Angeles, 
they  were  followed  by  a  band  of 
hungry  Indians — this  little  mis- 
sionary party,  among  whom  were 
John  T.  Caine,  who  used  to  repre- 
sent us  in  Congress,  William  W. 
Cluff,  and  some  fifteen  others. 
They  were  down,  on  the  desert,  this 
side  of  Los  Vegas,  and-  these  In- 
dians became  a  little  troublesome. 
Joseph  F.  Smith  and  one  other  of 
the  party — I  forget  who,  were  a 
little  slow  in  getting  their  horses 
saddled,  and  the  others  of  the  com- 
pany rode  off  or  drove  off,  leav- 
ing these  two  behind.  The  Indians 
became  more  bold  when  the  larger 
part  of  the  company  went  on,  and 
as  President  Smith  was  saddling 
his  horse,  pulling  up  the  strap,  he 
looked  into  the  barrel  of  his  own 
gun.  An  Indian  had  grabbed  his 
gun  from  the  saddle  and  pointed  it 
at  him.  The  boy,  who  was  strong 
and  an  athlete,  smiled  merely;  but 
quickly  getting  under  his  horse's 
neck,  he  grabbed  that  Indian,  who 
pretended  at  first  to  play,  and  in 
the  tussle,  wrenched  the  rifle  from 
his  hands. 

I  mention  this  to  show  the  fear- 
lessness of  the  youth.  I  never 
knew  as  brave  a  man.  No  num- 
ber of  men  could  daunt  him  or  dis- 


62  ' 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


courage  him  or  put  him  down.  If 
he  knew  he  was  right  he  stood  be- 
fore the  whole  world  and  sustained 
and  manfully  contended  for  the 
right  as  he  understood  it. 

On  this  mission  to  the  Sandwich 
Island,  he  encountered  severe 
hardships.  I  remember  on  our  first 
trip  over  to  the  Islands,  and  I  was 
over  there  on  four  trips  with  him, 
that  sailing  among  the  different 
small  islands,  he  would  point  out 
to  me  such  and  such  a  place : 
"There  is  where  I  lived  so  long  in 
a  little  straw  hut" — which  burned 
down  or  which  was  destroyed  by 
flood.  Here  was  another  place 
where  he  had  lain  sick  and  where 
the  good  Hawaiian  people  had 
ministered  to  him.  This  experi- 
ence, and  the  other,  he  would  tell 
as  we  journeyed  along,  all  of 
which,  if  I  had  time  to  relate,  are 
faith-promoting  and  inspiring,  and 
would  point  out  to  you  the  manli- 
ness of  the  young  boy — -for  he 
was  then,  as  I  told  you,  fifteen  or 
sixteen  years  of  age. 

He  remained  there  on  the  Islands 
until  he  was  nineteen  years  of  age, 
when  he  returned  home  at  the  call 
of  President  Brigham  Young,  at 
the  time  of  the  move  south  and 
when  Johnston's  army  was  march- 
ing here  for  the  avowed  purpose 
of  disturbing  the  Latter-day 
Saints. 

On  a  later  occasion,  when  we 
arrived  at  the  harbor  of  Honolulu, 
we  were  met  by  the  Royal  Hawai- 
ian Band.  This  band  was  instructed 
to  come  up  to  the  "Mormon"  meet- 
ing house — a  quite  prominent 
place  in  the  city  of  Honolulu,  and 
play  for  the  people  in  honor  of 
President  Smith  and  his  company. 
In  the  midst  of  the  proceedings, 
after  we  were  gathered  in  the 
meeting  house  and  President  Smith 


was  conversing  in  the  native 
tongue  with  this  one  and  the  other 
one,  and  shaking  hands  with  all, 
there  was  led  into  the  room  an  old 
Hawaiian  lady,  tottering,  blind — 
led  because  she  could  not  see.  The 
moment  he  saw  her  he  turned  from 
everyone  else  and  rushed  to  this 
dear  old  native  lady.  She  was  cal- 
ling "Iosepa,  Iosepa" — Joseph, 
Joseph,  her  Joseph.  He  rushed  to 
her  and  gathered  her  in  his  arms, 
and  with  tears  streaming  down  his 
cheeks,  said :  "My  mamma,  my 
mamma,  my  dear  old  mamma." 
And  he  turned  to  me,  wiping  his 
cheeks,  and  sai'rl.  "Charlie,  she 
tended  me  while  I  was  sick,  more 
than  fifty  years  ago,  and  here  she 
is  now ;  should  I  not  bless  her  and 
love  her?" 

From  courage  to  tenderness— 
for  the  bravest  are  the  tenderest 
always — what  nobleness-  and  grand- 
eur of  character  may  we  not  ex- 
pect between  these  two  angles. 

In  the  maintaining  and  rearing 
of  a  large  family  you  all  know 
what  manner  of  a  man  he  was.  A 
man  is  known  by  the  work  he  per- 
forms, by  the  labor  he  does.  Give 
him  the  opportunity  and  we  will  see 
what  he  can  do  with  it.  If  he  does 
his  best,  well  and  good.  Joseph  F. 
Smith  always  did  his  be-t.  He  was 
just  in  his  family.  He  was  the 
kindest  man  I  ever  knew,  and  the 
tenderest,  most  loving  and  compas- 
sionate to  little  children.  I  have 
seen  him  when  one  of  his  little  bab- 
ies was  sick,  walk  the  floor  at  night 
for  hours  together  with  that  babe 
in  his  arms,  tenderly  caring  for  it 
and  nursing  it — caring  for  it  better, 
I  think,  than  I  ever  saw  any  mother 
care  for  her  child,  so  tender  was 
he,  so  loving,  so  pitiful,  so  compas- 
sionate. 

He  was  a  man,  take  him  for  a'l  in 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


63 


all.  I  do  not  know  where  yon  will 
ever  see  his  like  again.  You  can 
imagine,  from  the  association  I 
was  privileged  to  have  with  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith,  especially 
during  the  later  years  of  his  life — - 
and  indeed  for  more  than  forty 
years  of  his  life — what  the  loss  of 
him  means  to  me.  I  feel  at  times 
alone. 

As  President  Grant  said  this 
morning  in  the  Tabernacle,  no  two 
preachers  of  righteousness  like  him 
and  his  son,  Hyrum  M.,  has  this 
Church  ever  produced.  I  endorse 
that  sentiment. 

He  was  a  manly  man,  a  man  of 
God,  a  man  whom  it  was  an  honor 
to  know  and  a  pleasure  to  be  with, 
a  man  whose  example  has  meant 
much  to  me — and  indeed,  had  it  not 
been  for  him,  I  know  that  I  could 
not  have  accomplished  what  little  I 
may  have  done  in  this  world.  In  a 
way  he  was  my  guiding  star.  I  did 
not  worship  him — I  worship  only 
God,  and  that  I  try  to  do  faithfully 
— but  he  was  more  like  unto  God, 
the  mo.st  godlike  man  that  I  ever 
knew  in  all  my  life. 

Such  is  my  testimony  concerning 
Joseph  F.  Smith.  I  love  his  mem- 
ory. I  revere  his  name.-  There  is 
not  anything  I  would  not  do  for 
him  or  his,  that  I  possibly  could  do. 
And  loving  him  and  his,  so  likewise 
I  try  to  love  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, with  the  same  spirit  that  he 
love'1  the  brethren  and  sisters  of 
this  Church,  and  the  people  of  the 
world  as  well — for  he  was  not  nar- 
row. 

Some  people  have  thought 
Joseph  F.  Smith  was  a  narrow- 
minded  man.  His  comprehension 
and  vision  were  the  broadest,  most 
extended,  most  glorious,  of  any 
man's  I  have  ever  known.  He 
could  grasp  and  comprehend  futur-. 


ity.  He  finew  what  was  in  store 
for  those  who  served  God  and  kept 
his  commandments.  He  knew  the 
principles  of  the  gospel.  They  were 
so  thoroughly  imbued  and  indoc- 
trinated in  him  that  they  were  a 
part  of  his  very  being.  It  was 
natural  for  him  to  be  a  Latter-day 
Saint,  and  he  was  willing  to  sacri- 
fice for  the  work,  and  he  did  sacri- 
fice. Without  father,  without 
mother,  alone,  he  sacrificed  as  much 
as  the  Lord  required  of  him. 

Let  me  beseech  you,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  that  we  get  some 
of  the  spirit  of  sacrifice  in  our 
hearts,  that  we,  too,  may  be  will- 
ing, and  may  say  before  God :  "I'll 
go  where  you  want  me  to  go,  dear 
Lord ;  I'll  work  where  you  want  me 
to  work;  I'll  try  to  be  what  you 
want  me  to  be." 

If  we  have  this  in  our  hearts, 
we  will  grow  in  some  humble  way, 
at  least,  in  small  degree,  to  be  like 
this  the  noblest  of  men  whom  I 
have  ever  known,  Joseph  F.  Smith. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

Although  we  have  lost  our  be- 
loved leader,  we  rejoice  that  he  has 
left  with  us  an  illustrious  poster- 
ity. We  feel  grateful  that  the  chil- 
dren of  President  Smith  are  follow- 
ing in  his  footsteps,  and  I  take 
pleasure  in  introducing  one  of  his 
worthy  sons,  Bishop  David  A. 
Smith,  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric, 
who  will  now  address  us. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

(Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters. — When 
I  look  over  this  assembly  and  think 
of  the  thousands  of  Latter-day 
Saints  who  are  meeting  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall  and  in  the  Tabernacle, 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


my  heart  ig  filled  with  joy;  yet  I 
cannot  approach  this  task  at  rib's 
time  without  a  feeling  of  sadness. 
All  my  life,  I  have  known  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith.  As  a  little 
fellow,  I  only  saw  him  accasionally, 
and  knew  him  best  through  the  let- 
ters he  wrote  to  me,  as  it  was  his 
custom  to  write  personal  letters  to 
his  children  when  absent  from 
home  And  during  my  early  child- 
hood he  was  away  from  home  on 
missions  most  of  the  time.  Bui 
when  at  home,  no  father  ever  took 
more  pleasure  or  greater  delight  in 
his  children  than  he  did. 

I  remember  when  Bishop  Nibley, 
as  he  has  said,  made  it  a  custom  to 
call  at  our  home  occasionally.  He 
was  almost  as  much  a  father  to  us 
as  our  own  father,  and  we  learned 
to  call  him  Uncle  Charlie.  I  did  not 
know  for  many  years  that  Charles 
W".  Nibley  was  not  my  own  uncle. 

For  over  eleven  years  it  has  been 
my  privilege  to  be  nearer,  closer  to 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  I  be- 
lieve, than  any  other  man.  Morn- 
ing, noon,  and  night,  I  have  been 
with  him.  Having  been  honored 
by  him,  having  been  trusted  with 
many  of  his  private  affairs,  being 
urged  on  by  Bishop  Nibley,  who 
loved  him  and  knew  what  work  he 
was  doing,  I  was  finally  given  much 
of  his  private  work  to  do.  And 
when,  today,  in  coming  to  this  con- 
ference, I  recall  the  fact  that  never 
before  for  over  eleven  years  had 
he  attended  a  general  conference 
on  this  block  that  it  was  not  my 
privilege  to  accompany  him  here 
and  home  again,  you  can,  there- 
fore, imagine  to  a  small  degree  at 
least,  the  reason  for  that  feeling 
of  sorrow  which  comes  to  me  at  this 
time,  for  I  loved  him  and  miss  him 
greatly. 

It  is  not    because  he    loved  me 


more  than  he  did  other  of  his  boys 
that  I  was  with  him  perhaps  more 
than  they,  for  President  Smith  haa 
no  favorites.  It  could  not  honestly 
be  said  of  him  that  he  loved  one 
boy  more  than  he  loved  another,  or 
that  he  loved  one  of  his  girls  more 
than  he  loved  another,  or  that  he 
loved  one  of  his  wives  more  than 
he  loved  another.  As  Bishop  Nib- 
ley has  said,  President  Smith  was 
a  just  man,  and  he  loved  his  wive? 
and  he  loved  his  children,  and  tried 
to  treat  them  as  wives  should  be 
treated  and  as  children  should  be 
treated — no  favorites  among  them, 
and  they  loved  him  and  tried  to 
honor  him.  I  was  greatly  honored, 
and  more  so  than  some  of  the 
others,  because  of  tne  position  I 
had  been  blessed  with,  which  gave 
to  me  a  greater  degree  of  freedom, 
which  permitted  -me  to  associate 
with  him  more  and  to  assume  part 
of  his  responsibilities,  which  would 
gladly  have  been  assumed  by  any 
one  of  his  children  had  any  one  of 
the  others  been  placed  in  the  same 
position  and  given  the  same  oppor- 
tunity. • 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, today,  in  the  fact  that  I  had 
such  a  father.  And  O,  I  pray  God 
that  I  shall  prove  worthy  of  such 
parentage.  Think  of  the  honor 
that  has  come  to  me :  honored  by 
you,  my  brethren  and  my  sisters ; 
honored  of  God,  having  been  per- 
mitted to  come  through  this  line- 
age which  has  been  so  blessed  of 
him.  O,  I  am  grateful  for  the 
blessings  I  have  received,  the  bless- 
ings that  I  do  receive  from  day  to 
day,  and  I  want  to  live  worthy  of 
the  confidence  that  has  been  placed 
in  me  by  you  and  by  this  people.  I 
want  to  serve  the  Lord  that  I  will 
be  entitled  to  his  blessings. 

When  I  look  over  the  congrega- 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


65 


tions  of  the  Saints  in  their  confer- 
ences, when  I  am  permitted  to 
meet  with  you  in  your  homes  and  in 
your  meetinghouses.  I  rejoice  in 
that  privilege,  because  there  I  al- 
ways find  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 
I  feel  it.  *  I  come  away  filled  with 
it;  it  is  that  same  influence  that 
has  caused  you  to  come  here  today 
and  stand  for  two  hours ;  that  which 
has  caused  .others  to  crowd  into  the 
buildings,  and  what  for?  To  hear 
the  word  of  God,  for  we  are  seek- 
ing knowledge  and  strength  that 
we  may  better  serve  the  Lord.  We 
know  that  just  so  far  as  we  have  in 
our  hearts  a  desire  to  learn  of  his 
will,  we  are  blessed  and  strength- 
ened and  are  better  able  to  carry 
on  the  work  and  the  responsibility 
that  rests  upon  us  as  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  I  pray  sincerely  that  1 
may  have  an  interest  in  your  pray- 
ers, in  your  faith,  the  sustaining  in- 
fluence of  which  will  enable  me  to 
do  that  which  is  required  of  me, 
that  I  may  better  uphold  and  emu- 
late the  noble  example  which  has 
been  set  me  by  my  beloved  father. 

May  God  bless  us  all  is  my  prayer, 
and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  ■ 
Amen. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

We  have  another  long-time  as- 
sociate of  President  Smith  with  us 
in  Bishop  John  Wells,  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  of  the  Church, 
who  will,  now  address  us. 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

(Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric.) 

I  hope  I  shall  be  able  to  make 
myself  heard  to  this  large  circle  of 
'my  brethren  and  sisters  who  have 
gathered  about  this  building  this 
afternoon. 

I  am  thankful  to  the  Lord  foi 


the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  ioi 
all  that  it  has  .done  for  me.  I  ap- 
preciate sincerely  my  membership 
in  the  Church  as  a  Latter-day 
Saint.  Many  honors  and  privil- 
eges have  come  to  me  through  my 
associations  with  my  brethren  and 
sisters.  I  am  thankful,  I  am  grate- 
ful, to  be  associated  with  the  good 
men  who  preside  -in  this  Church. 
They  are  men  after  God's  own 
heart ;  men  who  are  full  of  faith 
and  integrity  and  who  have  set  mt 
a  splendid  example;  men  who  are 
willing  to  do  everything  within 
their  power  to  serve  God  and  to 
bring  about  his  purposes  on  the 
earth.  The  Lord  has  establishea 
this  great  Latter-day  work.  It  *3 
a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder, 
wherein  the  wisdom  of  the  worldly 
wise  shall  perish  and  the  under- 
standing of  the  prudent  shall  come 
lto  naught.  It  is  only  upon  this  idea 
that  we  grasp  or  understand  the 
magnitude  of  the  work  that  the 
Lord  has  established  in  these  lat- 
ter days,  so  that  he  may  bring 
about  the  gathering  of  the  House 
of  Israel  and  the  establishment  of 
his  kingdom  upon  the  earth. 

It  has  been  my  pleasure  ano 
privilege,  as  an  officer  and  an  em- 
ployee of  the  Church,  to  become 
personally  acquainted  with  the  late 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith.  I  re- 
member him  well,  from  the  year 
1893,  when  I  was  an  employee  in 
the  Presiding  Bishop's  Office.  1 
called  upon  him  for  counsel,  many 
of  the  leading  brethren  being  away, 
and  some  of  the  duties  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishop's  Office  had  at  that 
time  devolved  upon  me..  I  waited 
upon  President  Smith  and  asked  his 
counsel  and  advice  concerning  what 
to  me  was  a  very  intricate  problem, 
and  my  first  impression  of  Presv 
dent  Smith  was  that  he  was  sound 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


in  judgment,  and  had  a  wonderful 
comprehension  of  human  nature. 
It  was  my  first  interview  with  him, 
and  we  sat  side  by  side  talking  on 
the  problem  I  presented  to  him. 
I  had  looked  upon  him  previous  to 
this  as  a  great  man  because  of  his 
exalted  position  as  one  of  the  First 
Presidency,  but  when  I  had  con- 
cluded that  interview,  I  had  a  more 
profound  impression  of  his  great- 
ness than  ever  before. 

At  one  time  I  was  coming  across, 
the  continent.  I  met  President 
Smith  and  some  of  his  family  at 
Omaha.  We  traveled  westward  in 
the  same  car.  I  was  sick  with 
something  akin  to  sea-sickness, 
caused  through  traveling  several 
days  on  the  train.  I  appreciated 
his  kindly  sympathy.  He  blessed 
me,  and  that  blessing  I  will  never 
forget,  because  it  came  from  the 
Prophet  of  the  Lord  and  his  bless- 
ing gave  me  peace  and  rest  for  most 
of  the  night.  That  same  night,  as 
the  train  was  moving  across  tilt, 
plains  of  Wyoming,  President 
Smith  stood  at  the  back  of  the  car 
taking  a  rest  from  a  long,  tedious 
clay's  journey.  Any  of  you  who 
have  traveled  day  after  day  in  a 
railway  train  know  what  relief  it  is 
to  stand  up  or  move  around  for 
awhile.  I  tell  you  this  incident  to 
show  you  how  President  Smith 
was  susceptible  to  the  Still  Small 
Voice.  While  standing  at  the  back 
of  the  train  he  heard  a  voice  tell- 
ing him  to  go  into  the  car,  and  he 
did  so.  Later  he  was  walking  up 
and  down  the  corridor  and  was  told 
by  the  same  Voice  to  sit  down.  Pie 
did  so.  A  few  moments  later  the 
engine  ran  off  the  track  and  tilted 
the  train  on  an  angle  which  scared 
us  all.  Had  President  Smith  been 
in  the  back  of  the  train  or  walking 
in  the  corridor  he  might  have  been 


very  seriously  injured,  but  the  Lord 
had  regard  for  him  and  he  was 
prompted  by  a  Voice  which  he  un- 
derstood so  well,  and  he  acted  ac- 
cordingly. President  Smith  has 
always  been  susceptible  to  the  in- 
fluence of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 
He  knew  its  promptings,  and  what 
they  meant.  As  he  heard  the  Still 
Small  Voice  directing  him  and  in- 
spiring him,  he  knew  .  that  Voice 
and  knew  it  well. 

President  Smith  was  a  kind  man, 
kind  to  employees  as  well  as  to  his 
friends  and  family.  He  frequently 
gathered  the  employees  of  the 
Bishop's  Office  at  the  Beehive 
House  and  other  places,  and 
mingled  with  them  in  social  gath- 
erings, showing  that  even  with  the 
dignity  of  his  position  and  calling 
he  was  always  the  same  unaffected 
and  kindly-disposed  man. 

I  revere  his  memory.  I  revere 
him  for  many  things.  I  will  nevei 
forget  as  long  as  I  live  the  blessing 
he  gave  to  me  when  he  ordained 
me  a  bishop.  I  never  want  to  for- 
get those  sweet,  kindly  words,  trie 
admonition  and  counsel  that  he 
gave  to  me  before  I  assumed  my 
duties  as  a  counselor  to  Bishop 
Charles  W.  Nibley. 

I  feel  today  that  if  he  were  here 
and  could  tell  us  what  he  would  likt 
us  to  do,  he  would  say,  brethren 
and  sisters,  roll  on  thi.s  great  work, 
be  prepared  to  carry  the  message  of 
the  gospel  to  the  nations  of  the 
earth  who  are  now  being  liberated , 
sustain  the  presiding  brethren  of 
this  Church,  whom  the  Lord  has 
sent  to  preside  in  the  various  quo- 
rums and  departments,  sustain  them 
with  all  your  might,  mind  and 
strength,  and  help  them  to  bring 
about  and  accomplish  the  purposes 
that  God  has  designed  to  accom- 
plish in  these  latter  days. 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


67 


I  sincerely  pray,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  the  spirit  of  this  great 
latter  day  work  may  be  in  our 
hearts,  that  we  may  pray  for  the 
spirit  of  it ;  exercise  our  office  and 
calling,  that  we  may  never  be 
ashamed  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  for  it  is  the  power  of  Goa 
unto  salvation  to  those  who  receive 
it. 

May  God  add  his  blessings,  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

An  instrumental  trio  was  given 
by  Mae,  Alice,  and  Rachel  Ander- 
sen ;  Leone  Amott,  accompanist, 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

The  choice  of  President  Smith  as 
leader  of  the  Church  a  remarkable 
evidence  of  the  truthfulness  of  the 
work — Testimony  of  his  noble  char- 
acter and  work — The  tremendous 
influence  of  two  mothers  contrasted 
■ — The  mantle  of  President  Smith 
has  fallen  upon  President  Grant. 

There  is  no  task  that  I  have  been 
asked  to  perform  which  gives  me 
greater  pleasure  and  more  real  hap- 
piness than  on  this  memorial  day 
to  speak  of  our  late  beloved  proph- 
et-leader, President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  whom,  like  my  brethren  who 
have  preceded  me,  I  love  with  thai 
same  love  and  affection  I  had  for 
my  own  father — for  he  was  a 
father  to  .me  and  to  every  man  and 
woman  who  became  acquainted 
with  him  who  loved  the  Lord  and 
sought  to  keep  his  commandments. 
I  bear  witness  that  President  Smith 
was  a  lover  of  such  men  and  wo- 
men. 

The  .selection  of  President  Smith 
to. preside  over  this  Church,  as  in 
the  case  of  his  predecessors,  is  one 
of  the  remarkable  evidences  of  the 
truthfulness  of  the  work  called 
"Mormonism,"  that  God  is  in  it, 


that  his  hand  has  been  over  this 
work  and  guiding  the  destinies  of 
this  Church,  and  he  is  indeed  the 
source  from  which  light  and  truth 
and  knowledge  have  come  to  the 
men  who-  have  directed  the  affairs 
of  this  Church. 

I  recall  many  years  ago  being  in 
the  city  of  Nauvoo,  attending  a 
celebration  of  newspaper  men  of 
the  state  of  Illinois,  in  that  city. 
The  representative  of  one  of  the 
leading  newspapers  of  that  stau 
was  giving  the  history  of  the  city 
of  Nauvoo.  He  told  of  its  growth 
until  it  became  a  city  of  twenty 
thousand  people  when  Chicago  was 
only  a  small  village  and  St.  Louis 
on  the  south  was  only  a  trading 
post.  He  told  of  the  prejudice  that 
inspired  the  hearts  of  those  who 
drove  the  Latter-day  Saints  from 
Nauvoo,  and  how  Nauvoo  had  gone 
down  until  it  had  but  twelve  hun- 
dred souls  and  not  a  railroad  yet. 
He  told  of  the  vandalism  that 
prompted  the  burning  of  the  Nau- 
voo temple,  and  that  even  while 
the  blackened  walls  of  that  temple 
stood,  the  steamboats  stood  half  a 
day  at  the  wharf  to  allow  passen- 
gers to  come  and  view  its  ruins. 
And  then  he  told  of  the  travels  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  in  their  pil- 
grimage across  the  plains  to  these 
valleys  of  the  mountains,  how  they 
had  made  the  desert  to  blossom  as 
the  rose;  and  said,  "Maybe  God 
likes  the  'Mormons'  better  than  he 
does  bigots  and  vandals,  if  not,  why 
doesn't  he  give  the  inhabitants  of 
Nauvoo  better  evidence  that  it  was 
all  right  to  drive  the  'Mormons' 
out?" 

I  felt  as  I  listened  to  his  uttei- 
ances,  that  any  man  who  would  fol- 
low this  Church,  and  become 
acquainted  with  its  leaders  must  be 
blind  indeed  if  he  cannot  see  that 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


a  power  greater  than  man's  has  at- 
tended it  and  the  men  who  have  led 
and  directed  it. 

From  the  days  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  until  this  hour,  I  feel 
there  are  evidences  of  the  wisdom 
of  an  allwise  and  overruling  Provi- 
dence in  the  selection  of  the  men 
who  have  stood  at  the  head  of  this 
Church,  and  it  is  manifest  in  the 
result  of  their  administrations. 
Where  could  we  have  found  a  man 
like  unto  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
who  could  have  done  the  work-  that 
the  Prophet  did  in  receiving  the 
revelations  of  God — naturally  a 
spiritually  minded  man,  a  prophet 
selected  from  beforehand,  even  as 
in  ancient  days. 

It  might  also  be  said  of  each  one 
of  these  men  down  to  the  present 
prophet  of,  the  Lord,  Heber  J. 
Grant,  ordained  prophets  before 
they  came  into  the  world;  God 
knew  them ;  he  selected  them  for 
their  hour  and  for  their  time,  took 
them  through  a  schooling  of  experi- 
ence, of  trial  and  hardship  and 
preparation,  each  to  be  his  mouth- 
piece to  reveal  the  truths  of  the 
everlasting  gospel,  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  Church,  the  doctrines  of 
the  Church,  as  in  the  case  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph ;  or  his  prophei- 
leader,  Brigham  Young,  whom  he 
had  in  schooling,  as  we  heard  this 
morning,  and  in  training  and  prep- 
aration to  accomplish  the  great  pil- 
grimage of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
into  these  valleys  of  the  mountains ; 
and  likewise  the  men  whom  Goq 
raised  up  thereafter,  each  in  his 
turn  the  man  for  the  hour,  and 
the  Lord  was  with  him,  and  the 
Lord  has  been  with  our  late  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith — we  are  all 
witnesses  to  that. 

I  recall  my  early  recollections  of 
President  Smith  with  a  good  deal 


of  pleasure — because  I  admired 
him,  he  was  to  me  my  ideal,  I  tried 
in  my  life,  as  I  became  acquainted 
with  him,  to  be  as  he  was.  I  knew 
as  a  child,  for  the  Lord  revealed  it 
unto  me,  that  President  Smith 
would  some  day  preside  over  this 
Church ;  and  in  connection  with 
that  I  saw  many  things  that  Presi- 
dent Smith  would  do;  and  when, 
last  October,  he  stood  before  the 
congregations  of  ,the  Saints,  feeble 
and  weak  as  he  was,  my  soul  was 
filled  with  great  sorrow,  because  I 
knew  that  all  that  the  Lord  had 
for  President  Smith  to  do  had  been 
done.  That  which  I  saw  as  a  child 
was  fulfilled,  finished,  completed. 
And  yet  there  was  a  feeling  of 
great  regret  that  we  should  soon 
have  to  part  with  him  and  let  him 
go  on  to  the  work  which  the  Father 
has  prepared  him  to  do  in  that 
realm  where  he  is  now. 

It  was  my  privilege,  I  presume, 
to  deliver  the  last  public  address 
that  President  Smith  ever  listened 
to,  being  the  last  speaker  of  the 
last  Conference  of  the  Church.  And 
I  recall,  as  I  had  concluded,  he 
grasped  my  hand  and  pressed  it 
and  gave  me  a  blessing  that  I  shall 
not  forget,  for  my  whole  soul  was 
thrilled  with  his  blessing  and  with 
his  love.  / 

I  bear  witness  that  he  was  a  man 
who  loved  the  souls  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men  in  the  world= — not  only 
those  who  belong  to  the  Church; 
for  no  man  has  done  more,  than 
he,  looking  toward  the  establish- 
ment of  -  the  work  of  the  Lord 
among  the  nations  of  the  earth.  He 
has  builded  more  meeting  houses 
in  the  mission  field,  and  mission 
headquarters,  than  in  the  rest  of 
the  years  of  the  Church  put  to- 
gether. His  heart  was  in  the  preach- 
ing of  the  gospel,  and  ,so  he  lent 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


69 


himself  to  uphold  and  sustain  those 
who  were  engaged  in  this  work. 

His  coming  into  the  world  was 
at  a  time  when  his  own  father  and 
his  own  uncle  the  Prophet,  were 
incarcerated  in'  a  foul  dungeon, 
with  chains  forged  upon  them  by 
a  blacksmith,  condemned  to  be 
shot,  confined  in  this  condition  for 
the  gospel's  sake,  held  as  hostages 
for  the  Church,  a  ransom  for  the 
balance  of  the  people  that  they 
would  leave  the  state  of  Missouri ; 
the  father,  Hyrum,  was  separated 
from  his  beloved  companion,  the 
mother  of  Joseph  F.  Smith;  and 
under  these  conditions,  Joseph  F. 
Smith  was  born  into  the  world, 
without  a  father's  love  and  protec- 
tion for  the  mother  of  the  child; 
there  was  one  occasion  when  the 
enemy  ransacked,  as  they  were  ac- 
customed to  do,  the  homes  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  invaded  the 
home  of  Marv  Fielding  Smith,  the 
mother  of  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith ;  and  in  their  anxiety  to  fina 
treasure,  tumbled  bedclothes  over 
and  finally  succeeded  in  almost  ex- 
terminating the  life  of  President 
Smith — for  he  was  buried  under 
bedclothing  when  rescued  by  his 
mother  after  the  invader  had  left 
their  home.  The  boy  was  so  black 
that  life  was  almost  extinguished, 
but  the  hand  of  the  Lord  was  over 
him;  from  that  moment  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  attended  him  in  tlie 
midst  of  trials,  in  the  midst  of  vicis- 
situdes, and  has  preserved  his  life 
marvelously  to  complete  that  which 
the  Lord  had  in  .store  for  him  to 
do. 

And  I  thought  of  him  as  a  child. 
How  few  boys  would  have  shown 
the  courage,  the  manhood,  that  he 
did,  while  scarcely  eight  years  of 
age,  driving  a  yoke  of  oxen  part 
way  across    the  plains,    and  then 


when  a  little  over  nine  years  01 
age,  in  1848,  driving  two  yoke  of 
oxen  the  entire  distance  from  the 
Missouri  river  to  these  va'lleys  of 
the  mountains,  taking  a  man's  part. 
But  as  I  have  thought  of  '  it,  I 
know  what  was  in  President 
Smith's  heart.  He  did  not  take  the 
credit  unto  himself.  A  very  large 
part  of  that  credit  shall  forever  be- 
long to  his  illustrious  mother,  Mary 
Fielding  Smith.  He  often  said  it, 
and  I  know  if  he  were  here  today 
he  would  be  delighted  to  have  these 
words  of  praise  spoken  of  that 
good  woman  who  was  his  inspira- 
tion in  his  childhood. 

I  have  thought  of  it  in  connec-. 
tion  with  the  sorrowful  experiences 
that  came  into  the  life  of  the  des- 
cendants of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith — you  remember  that  the 
catastrophe  that  took  away  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  also  endea 
the  career  of  the  Patriarch  Hyrum 
Smith,  the  father  of  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith ;  and  the  wives  of 
these  two  men  were  shocked  to  be  . 
thus  bereaved  of  their  support, 
their  loving  husbands,  the  fathers 
of  their  children ;  and  then  the  per- 
secutions did  not  end  with  the  mar- 
tyrdom of  Joseph  and  Hyrum 
Smith,  but  centered  on  the  Church , 
and  in  those  perilous  times,  seek- 
ing to  find  an  asylum,  a  home  for 
the  Saints  in  the  place  appointed 
by  the  Lord,  and  unto  which  the 
Prophet  Joseph  said  they  would  go, 
President  Young  started  to  lead  the 
Latter-day  Saints  to  these  valleys 
of  the  mountains.  I  remember  lis- 
tening to  the  testimonv  of  ■<>. 
daughter  of  Samuel  H.  Smith  in 
the  city  of  St.  Louis,  many  years 
ago,  to  the  effect  that  during  those 
days  President  Young  sent  an  in- 
vitation to  Emma  Smith,  the  wife 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  to  furnish 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


conveyance  for  herself  and  chil- 
dren, and  provisions  and  means  to 
take  them  to  the  mountains,  but 
it  was  refused,  and  Emma  would 
not  come  with  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  But  I  never  read  in  any 
of  the  histories  where  Mary  Field- 
ing' Smith  received  such  an  invita- 
tion ;  but  rather  on  her  own  initia- 
tive this  woman  gathered  up  her 
children,  made  the  trip  .clown  to 
St.  Louis,  purchased  provisions  and 
equipment,  financing-  herself,  with 
the  help  of  her  brother  and  made 
the  journey  to  these  valleys  of  the 
mountains.  Surely  she  had  love 
and  good  fellowship  and  support 
of  the  brethren,  but  I  contrast  the 
action  of  these  two  women.  I  do 
not  wish  to  say  one  disparaging 
word  of  Emma  Smith,  the  wife  of 
the  Prophet,  for  she  went  through 
much  affliction,  and  much  did  she 
do  for  the  comfort  of  the  Prophet 
and  the  building  up  of  the  work 
of  God ;  but  the  blow  that  fell  up- 
on her  in  the  death  of  her  husband, 
and  the  weakness  of  the  flesh  ex- 
hibited in  that  hour,  were  more  than 
she  had  the  courage  to  endure,  and 
so  she  faltered,  she  weakened,  and 
fell  by  the  wavside,  and  took  her 
children  off  with  her. 

I  have  thought  of  what  a  tre- 
mendous influence  the  example  of 
these  two  mothers  has  had.  On 
the  one  hand  Emma  has  turned  all 
the  posterity  of  the  Prophet 
through  herself  and  the  Prophet 
away  from  the  Church — aliens  to 
the  truth  that  God  has  revealed 
and  established ;  while  Mary  Field- 
ing Smith  turned  at  the  very  foun- 
tain of  that  stream  the  posterity  of 
her  illustrious  husband,  Hyrum 
Smith,  into  the  channels  of  the 
Church,  into  the  truth ;  and  here 
they  stand  a  mighty  host,  increas- 


ing, and  will  continue  to  grow  .as 
the  generations  come. 

When  the  President  was  taken 
away,  in  the  imaginations  of  my 
own  mind  by  the  enlightenment  of 
the  Spirit  of  God  that  came  to  me, 
I  saw  President  Joseph  F.  Smith 
received  on  the  other  side.  Tongue 
cannot  tell  the  joy  that  was  in 
Hyrum  Smith's  heart  when  he  re- 
ceived his  beloved  son,  Joseph  F. 
Smith.  Joy  beyond  expression  was 
in  the  heart  of  Hyrum  Smith  when 
his  true,  tried,  noble,  and  God-fear- 
ing wife,  the  inspiration,  the  pro- 
tection of  her  son  Joseph  Fielding 
— came  to  him. 

I  thought  of  it  in  contrast  to  the 
feelings  of  the  Prophet  when  his 
son  and  his  wife  Emma  came.  His 
must  have  been  a  sorrowful  greet- 
ing. 

All  honor  to  Mary  Fielding 
Smith,  the  mother  of  the  boy 
Joseph  F.,  who,  in  his  tender  years 
turned  him  right,  led  him  into  the 
paths  of  truth,  started  him  on  the 
way.  And  then  all  honor,  and  credit 
to  the  sterling  character  of  that 
noble  man  of  God  who  did  follow 
the  footsteps  of  his  father  and  his 
mother  and  wavered  not. 

He  was  not  privileged  to  obtain 
an  education  like  others,  neverthe- 
less he  was  a  student,  and  I  do  not 
think  that  a  man  ever  preached  the 
gospel  of  the  Church  of  Jestu 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  more 
eloquently,  used  better  language, 
more  perfect  and  choice  and  fin- 
ished, than  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith.  I  remember,  following  an 
address  he  delivered  in  Portland 
at  the  dedication  of  our  church 
several  years  ago,  a  prominent 
lawyer  in  Portland,  himself  an 
orator,  said,  "I  have  never  heard  a 
finer  utterance  from  a  man  than 
President       Smith  delivered." 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


71 


"Why,"  said  he,  "you  must  be  a 
lawyer,  for  you  arranged  your  ar- 
gument— everything  was  done  in 
such  a  logical  way,  most  convinc- 
ing." He  was  an  all-round  edu- 
cated man.  As  a  citizen  in  this 
city,  he  has  left  his  mark,  that  will 
never  be  effaced.  I  am  told  that 
it  was  through  his  influence  more 
than  any  other  man's  that  Liberty 
Park  belongs  to  this  city.  When 
he  fought  for  that  blessing  to  the 
people,  he  stood  almost  alone,  but 
won  out. 

There  was  a  time,  as  President 
Grant  iemarkedthis  morning,  when 
men  doubted  the  financial  ability  of 
President  Smith,  schooled  in  pov- 
erty, knowing  the  burden  of  debt. 
Yet  the  Lord  had  prepared  him  to 
come  into  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church  during  its  most  prosperous 
financial  period,  to  take  charge  of 
the  affairs  when  it  would  require 
men  of  great  financial  ability,  look- 
ing at  it  from  a  human  point  of 
view,  to  succeed.  But  he  had  it — 
God-given  financial  ability  came  to 
the  prophet;  he  had  the  inherent 
qualities  and  the  willing  spirit,  lis- 
tened to  the  voice  that  prompted 
and  directed  him,  so  that  he  had  to 
do  with  the  finances  of  the  Church 
during  its  most  prosperous  period, 
and  handled,  I  presume,  more  funds 
of  this  Church  than  all  the  other 
presidents  put  together ;  and  the 
Lord  at  the  same  time  blessed  him, 
as  has  been  remarked,  to  be  the 
greatest  preacher  of  righteousness 
of  this  dispensation.  It  does  seem 
marvelous  what  the  Lord  has  done. 
President  Smith's  wisdom  in  finan- 
cial affairs  excelled  all  his  compan- 
io"f.  f^r  ha  was  guided  by  the  light 
of  the  Lord. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
have  no  doubt  but  that  President 
Smith  is  busy  and  active.    How  I 


want  to  live  to  go  where  he  is !  I 
do  not  care  whether  the  streets  are 
paved  with  gold,  whether  there  are 
diamonds  and  jasper  in  the  walls.  I 
do  not  care  what  kind  of  place  it 
is.  If  I  can  go  where  President 
Smith  has  gone  and  be  with  him 
land  men  like  him,  it  will  be  heaven 
to  me,  I  want  to  be  there. 

I  realize  that  I  cannot  come  there 
by  wishing,  but  that  I  must  follow 
the  example  of  men  like  President 
Smith  if  I  shall  ever  come  to  be 
associated  with  them  ;  and  so  his  life 
is  like  an  anchor  sent  out  from  that 
world  to  whichvhe  has  gone,  to  my 
soul,  and  I  hope  it  shall  be  to  all 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  pulling  us, 
beckoning  us,  calling  us  unto  that 
realm  to  which  he  has  gone,  where 
he  will  be  honored,  as  are  those 
with  whom  he  is  associated. 

I  want  to  say  to  you  that  this 
generation,  who  did  not  receive  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  who  have 
not  listened  to  the  testimony  of 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith  and  the 
elders  of  this  Church,  shall  yet  hear 
them  and  honor  their  names  and 
receive  from  them  the  message  of 
the  everlasting  gospel  in  the  spirit 
world,  or  they  shall  never  be  saved. 
God  said  in  the  beginning,  that 
this  generation  should  hear  the  mes- 
sage of  this  gospel  through  the  men 
to  whom  he  revealed  himself.  Men 
and  women  who  die  shall  not  see 
Peter,  they  shall  not  look  upon  the 
face  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
they  shall  not  have .  Paul  to  come 
and  visit  them ;  but  they  shall  have 
the  elders  of  this  Church,  whom  the 
Lord  sent  to  them  in  the  earth ; 
and  they  shall  receive  this  gospel 
from  none  other,  for  the  Lord  will 
vindicate  them,  and  he  will  have 
them  honored.  He  will  not  dis- 
credit them.  And  when  they  go  to 
the  other  side,  we  shall  find  stand- 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ing  in  places  of  honor;  representing 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  men  like 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  who 
will  be  given  greater  authority  and 
greater  power  than  they  ever  had 
upon  the  earth.  He  is  not  shorn  of 
anything  because  he  is  gone  from 
this  world.  The  place  and  position 
which  belongs  to  him  is  one  of 
greater  presidency,  greater  influ- 
ence and  power  and  authority  than 
he  has  ever  had  in  the  earth ;  for 
over  there  are  countless  billions  of 
our  Father's  children  who  are  re- 
ceiving this  gospel  and  they  shall 
come  under  the  administration  of 
the  elders  of  the  Church  who  have 
been  faithful ;  and  presidency  and 
power  and  authority  shall  belong 
to  President  Smith  forever  and 
ever,  among  the  redeemed  and  the 
sanctified  in  the  eternal  world. 

,1  bear  witness  to-  you  that  the 
mantle  of  the  Prophet  has  fallen 
upon  his  successor,  President  He- 
ber  J.  Grant.  I  am  a  witness  of 
this.  I  know  that  he  is  a  prophet  of 
the-  living  God,  and  the  Lord  has 
raised  him  up.  The  Lord  has  had 
him  in  schooling  and  in  training,  so 
that  he  will  be  a  wise  and  prudent 
man,  a  true  successor  of  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith ;  and  in  the  heart 
of  President  Grant  is  the  spirit  of 
humility  and  of  faithfulness  and  of 
devotion  to  the  Lord ;  and  the  in- 
spiration of-  the  Lord  rests  upon 
him,  that  is  my  witness ;  and  the 
Lord  will  use  him.  He  will  not  do 
just  exactly  what  President  Smith 
did — there  was  a  day  of  material 
progress  and  of  enlarging  the 
boundaries  of  the  Church,  a  time  of 
material  prosperity  and  growth  for 
the  Church  and  for  the  membership 
of  the  Church,  all  of  which  was 
right  and  splendid,  and  conducted 
successfully;  but  the  time  has  come 
when  the  Church  must  also  grow 


spiritually,  and  must  return  with 
greater-  devotion  to  the  standards 
of  our  fathers,  to  the  true  and 
livine  God  and  the  keening  of  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  in  the  pavment 
of  our  tithing,  in  savine  our  pray- 
ers, in  seeking  to  discharge  the 
great  responsibility  that  rests  uoon 
us  to  carry  the  gospel  to  the  nations 
of  the  earth,  and  ceasing  to  excuse 
ourselves  because  we  are  financially 
involved  or  because  we  have  been 
once — and  sending  our  bovs  in  our 
stead.  We  must  sro  ourselves,  even 
as  President  Smith  did.  He  never 
stopped  or  hesitated  or  said  that  he 
would  have  to  be  excused  because 
he  was  indebted,  but  went  at  each 
call:  and  we  must  get  that  soirit 
?eain,  for  the  hour  of  preaching 
the  gospel  once  again  to  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth  has  come,  where 
thousands  will  be  needed  to  cry, 
after  this  dav  of  chastisement,  re- 
pentance to  the  nations  of  the  earth. 
And  it  shall  not  surprise  me  if  the 
chief  characteristic  of  President 
Grant's  administration  shall  be  the 
spiritual  awakening-  and  growth  and 
progress  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-dav  Saints. 

As  we  followed  President  Smith, 
let  us  follow  our  leader  today.  He 
is  the  spokesman  of  the  Lord.  The 
Lord  has  his  program  to  work  out ; 
and  so  far  as  I  am  concerned,  and 
I  hope  It  shall  be  true  of  every  mem- 
ber of  this  Church,  we  shall  be 
■willing  to  listen  to  the  voice  of  the 
leader  today.  All  honor  to  the  lead- 
ers of  the  past.  They  filled  their 
niche,  their  place,  their  station, 
completed  their  work.  But  the 
work  of  God  is  not  finished  in  the 
earth.  It  has  only  partly  com- 
pleted what  God  ordained  it  to 
do.  And  those  of  us  who  remain 
must  seize  the  banner  and  carry  this 
work  off  victorious,  to  glorify  the 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


73 


names  of  those  who  have  been  iden- 
tified with  this  work  in  the  days  that 
are  past,  and  to  receive  honor  and 
place  and  position  with  them  in  the 
eternal  world,  and  ^vindicate  the 
word  of  our  Father  in  his  blessings 
and  promises  to  those  who  would 
enter  into  sacred  covenants  to  keep 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 

I  rejoice  to  be  identified  with  this 
work.  In  my  soul  I  am  thankful 
for  a  standing  in  this  Church.  I 
feel  my  weakness  in  appearing  be- 
fore the  Latter-day  Saints  m  the 
responsibilities  that  have  come  to 
me.  When  President  Grant  in- 
formed me  that  it  was  the  will  of 
the  Lord,  and  that  the  brethren 
had  approved  of  that  decision,  that 
I  should  become  a  special  witness 
for  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  I  was 
overwhelmed,  because  I  did  not  feel 
that  I  was  worthy  of  any  such 
thing;  and  I  answered  him  that  if 
I  believed  that  I  could  be  worthy 
to  be  a  special  witness  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  an  apostle,  it  would 
be  the  happiest  hour  of  my  life; 
for  I  look  upon/  it  as  the  highest 
honor  that  can  come  to  a  man  on 
the  earth ;  but  my  standard  of  what 
kind  of  men  they  ought  to  be  was 
so  great,  so  far  above  what  Lam, 
that  I  did  not  know  if  I  could  meas- 
ure up  to  that  standard  or  not ;  but 


if  the  Lord  wanted  me,  as  I  had 
sung,  and  as  I  had  tried  to  live, — 

I'll  go  where  he  wants  me  to  go,  ■ 
I'll  say  what  he  wants  me  to  say, 
I'll  be  what  h,e  wants  me  to  be; 

and  if  the  Lord  was  willing  and 
the  brethren  would  be  patient  with 
me,  then  with  all  my  heart,  mind 
and  soul,  .1  would  try  to  be  the 
kind  of  man  that  the  Lord  wanted 
me  to  be,  and  fulfil  this  calling,  not 
as  a  master,  but  as  a  servant  of  the 
people ;  not  that  I  am  any  better 
than  thousands  of  my  brethren,  but 
just  because  the  Lord  sees  some- 
thing in  me  that  he  can  use  at  this 
time,  and  I  am  willing  that  he  shall 
use  it- to  the  glory  of  his  name. 

God  bless  and  sanctify  this  con- 
ference and  this  gathering,  that  we 
shall  keep  in  our  minds  the  noble 
example  of  our  illustrious  leader 
who  is  gone,  that  we  may  to  the 
close  of  our  lives  be  as  true  as  he 
was,  to  the  truth,  and  find,  as  I 
am  sure  we  shall,  salvation  in  the 
kingdom  of  God  with  him  and  with 
all  the  faithful  who  have  gone  be- 
fore, I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  Glee  Club  sang:  "Hail  to 
the  Prince  of  Peace." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered 
by  Elder  Benjamin  Goddard,  of  the 
Bureau  of  Information. 


SECOND  DAY. 


In  the  Tabernacle,  Monday, 
June  2,  1919,  10  a.  m. 

The  congregation  was  called  to 
order  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant 
who  presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation 
sang:  "High  on  the  mountain 
top." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder 
Duncan  M.  McAllister. 

Murray  K.  Roberts  sang  the  solo  • 
"My  Faith  in  Thee." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

From  the  annual  reports  for  the 
year  1918,  we  have  compiled  some 
information  that  I  believe  will  be 
of  interest  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints : 

STATISTICS. 

During  the  year  1918,  there  were 
14,761  baptisms  and  15,963  chil- 
dren were  blessed.  There  were 
5,752  deaths,  which  is  the  largest 
number  on  record  for  any  year.  Of 
this  number,  1,054  died  of  influenza 
and  862  died  of  pneumonia. 

MILITARY. 

Over  20,000  members  of  the 
Church  were  in  the  military  service 
of  the  United  States  and  its  allies  at 
the  close  of  the  year  1918.  'Of  this 
number,  383  died  in  the  service.  We 
should  have  been  allowed  not  less 
than  twenty  chaplains  and  we  made 
application  for  permission  to  fur- 
nish our  quota,  but  for  some  reason, 
unknown  to  us,  we  were  only  al- 
lowed to  furnish  three  chaplains, 


two  of  whom  saw  active  service  at 
the  front  in  France. 

PRIESTHOOD. 

There  has  been  a  better  attend- 
ance of  the  priesthood  at  the  ward 
weekly  meetings  but  there  are  still 
9,078  persons  who  hold  the  priest- 
hood whom  the  Bishops  report  are 
willing  to  labor  but  have  not  been 
assigned  to  any  duties  in  the  stake 
or  ward. 

TITHES. 

There  has  been  a  considerable' in- 
crease in  the  amount  of  tithes  paid 
for  the  year  1918.  The  tithing  has 
been  well  handled  by  the  Bishops. 
V ery  little  loss  has  been  incurred, 
except  through  the  failure  to  find  a 
market  for  the  large  potato  crop  of 
the  year  1917. 

TEMPLES. 

There  were  175,525  baptisms  for 
the  dead  performed  in  the  temples, 
and.  there  were  78,001  endowments 
for  the  living  and  the  dead.  The 
Hawaiian  Temple  is  now  practically 
completed  at  a  cost  of  about  $200,- 
000.00.  The  Cardston  Temple  is 
nearing  completion  and  will  cost, 
when  finished,  about  $600,000.00. 

SACRAMENT  MEETINGS. 

In  consequence  of  the  quarantine 
and  conditions  'prevailing  during 
the  epidemic  of  influenza  in  the  lat- 
ter part  of  the  year  1918,  the  at- 
tendance at  Sacrament  meetings 
has  'fallen  off  and  the  visits  of  the 
ward  teachers  have  not  been  as 
regular  as  in  other  years. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


75 


FINANCES. 

The  following  are  some  of  the 
expenditures  paid  out  of  the  tithes 
and  other  Church  funds  during  the 
year  1918: 

There  has  been  ex- 
pended for  assisting 
the  worthy  poor  .  .$  279,244.30 

For  missionary  work, 
and  jbuilding  iof 
meeting  houses  in 
the  missions,  imis- 
sion  houses  and  re- 
turn fare  of  Elders.  345,761.51 

For  the  maintenance  / 
and  operation  of  the 
Church  school  sys- 
tem, including  the 
erection  of  new 
school  buildings  . . .  695,561.70 

For  the  maintenance 
and  operaiton  of  the 
St.  George,  Logan, 
Manti  and  Salt 
Lake  Temples  ....  170,000.00 

For  the  construction 
and  equipment  of 
the  Hawaiian  and 
Cardston  Temples. .  340,036.17 

For  the  erection  of 
meeting  houses 
(This  'does  not  in- 
clude donations  for 
the  same  purpose  by 
members  of  the  re- 
spective wards)  . . .  288,766.76 

For  the  maintenance 
of  stakes  and  wards 
in  all  their  various 
departments    526,002.91 

$2,645,373.35 

Attention  has  been  called  to  the 
fact  that  the  work  which  the  Pio- 
neers did  in  planting  trees  and  in 
beautifying    homes,    farms,  ward 


meeting  houses,  schools  and  other 
buildings,  is  being  sadly  neglected 
in  the'  Latter-day  Saint  communi- 
ties. Our  advice  and  counsel  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints  is  to  plant  more 
trees,  to  get  the  best  kinds  adapted 
to  each  locality  and  grow  itnem 
wherever  they  can  be  grown. 

In  my  remarks  here  yesterday  I 
referred  to  the  comments  of  a  gen- 
tleman from  St.  Louis,  who  makes 
a  specialty  of  parking  and  beautify- 
ing cities,  and  who  stated  that  we 
are  not  living  up  to  the  very  splen- 
did record  made  in  this  particular 
by  the  early  pioneers.  A  gentleman 
remarked  to  Brother  McMurrin, 
on  one  occasion,  that  our  whole  city 
is  a  park,  and  it  would  be  indeed 
a  park  if  we  carried  out  the  advice 
given  in  early  days,  by  President 
Brigham  Young  and  others,  that 
we  should  plant  trees  in  the  vacant 
spaces  in  front  of  our  homes. 

As  stated  yesterday,  I  had  the 
privilege  of  attending  the  Demi- 
centennial  Celebration  ot  the  com- 
pletion of  the  Union  and  Central 
Pacific  Railroads  at  Ogden,  and  re- 
gretted that  a  report  was  not  taken 
and  published  of  the  speeches  of 
four  officials  of  the  Southern  Pacific 
Railroad.  I  have  just  received  a 
letter  from  one  of  the  speakers,  Mr. 
J.  M.  Fulton,  enclosing  a  short  ex- 
tract from  his  address,  on  which  I 
had  personally  complimented  him. 
I  desire  to  read  this  extract,  in  order 
that  it  may  become  part  of  our  pro- 
ceedings : 

But  we  all  do,  and  must,  remem- 
ber that  before  either  survey  or  con- 
struction of  the  Central  or  Union 
Pacific  Railroads  had  commenced,  a 
hardy,  thrifty,  industrious,  God-lov- 
ing people  had  shown  that  the  des- 
ert, from  the  Missouri  river  to  Utah, 
could  be  conquered.  They  were  the 
pioneers  who  bjazed  the  trail  to 
where  we  now  are,  and  it  is  they  who 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


have  made  of  Utah  what  it  is  today, 
but  in  my  judgment,  they  did  not 
then,  do  not  now,  conceive  of  the 
great  future  that  lies  before  them. 

We  find  in  this  Valley,  a  vast  pro- 
duction of  sugar-beets,  grains,  fruit, 
livestock,  and  everything  that  man 
needs,  ,and  the  blessing  is  that  there 
is  a  home  market  for  all  that  is  pro- 
duced. You  have  vast  sugar  fac- 
tories, flour  mills,  canning  plants,  and 
your  splendid  meat  packing  estab- 
lishment, all  standing  ready  to  take 
from  the  farmer  for  cash  all  that  he 
produces. 

This  cooperation  will  surely  make 
of  Utah  a  great  and  rich  land.  No- 
where else  in  the  world  do  I  know 
of  such  helpful  cooperation  between 
the  producer  and  the  manufacturer 
as  shown  in  Utah,  nor  have  I  ever 
known  a  more  hospitable  people.  It 
is  the  blood  of  those  brave  men, 
whom  we  all  revere,  who,  for  their 
love  of  God,  dared  the  desert  and 
sought  a  new  land,  who  are  now 
building  and  will  soon  make  of  Utah 
one  of  the  greatest  states  of  the 
Union.  Even  now,  Utah  manufac- 
tured commodities  are  finding  a 
market  in  nearly  every  state,  and  in 
many  foreign  lands. 

And  now,  in  conclusion,  I,  want  to 
say  to  you  that  on  this  day  you  are 
driving  a  Spike  of  Gold  into  our 
hearts  that  will  stay  put,  and  we  hope 
so  worthy  a  people  as  you  have  a 
similar  feeling  for  us. 

The  chief  engineer  of  the  South- 
ern Pacific  Railroad,  Mr.Wm. Hood, 
delivered  a  magnificent  speech  upon 
that  occasion,  paying  one  of  the  fin- 
est tributes  to  the  pioneers  that  I 
have  ever  heard."  I  regret  exceed- 
ingly that  the  enterprise  of  our 
newspapers  was  such  that  we  only 
had  pictures  of  the  procession,  page 
after  page,  but  nothing1  of  the  very 
splendid  remarks  that  were  made. 

ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Home-building  characteristics  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints — One  important 
duty  of  home-builders — The  home 
threatened  in  the  present  world 
commotion — To  save  this  sacred  in- 
stitution devolves  upon  the  Saints— 


A  few  fundamental  principles  to  be 
kept  in  mind:  Honor,  obedience, 
mutual  service,  eternity  of  th.e  mar- 
riage relation — These  spell  Home, 
and  comprehend  the  spirit  in  which 
the  principles  of  life  and  salvation 
should  be  taught  to  children— The 
home  of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith 
an  example. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  re- 
joice in  having  the  privilege  of  unit- 
ing with  you  in  this  great  spiritual 
feast.  Yjesterday  was  Memorial 
day,  and  I  pray  that  today  may 
be  equally  rich  in  the  outpouring  of  ' 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  In  the  most 
interesting  remarks  made  just  now 
by  President  Grant,  reference  was 
made  to  the  home-beautifying 
characteristic  of  the  Pioneers.  That 
is  just  in  keeping  with  the  thought 
that  is  uppermost  in  my  mind  this 
morning.  The  Pioneers  were  home 
builders  in  the  truest,  most  f unda-  • 
mental  sense. 

I  would  like  to  read  that  impor- 
tant passage  from  Section  68  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  in  which 
the  Lord  says  plainly  what  one  im- 
portant duty  of  home-builders 1  is  : 
"Inasmuch  as  parents  have  children 
in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her  stakes 
which  are  organized,  that  teach 
them  not  to  understand  the  doctrine 
of  repentance,  faith  in  Christ  the 
Son  of  the  Living  God  and  of  bap- 
tism and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands  when 
eight  years  old,  the  sin  be  upon  the 
heads  of  the  parents ;  for  this  shall 
be  a  law  unto  the  inhabitants  of 
Zion,  or  in  any  of  her  stakes  which 
are  organized ;  *  *  *  and  they 
shall  also  teach  their  children  to 
pray  and  walk  uprightly  before  the 
Lord." 

We  are  living  in  a  most  moment- 
ous age.  We  see  on  every  hand 
manifestations  of  commotion.  The 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


77 


world  seemingly  is  stirred  as  it  has 
never  been  stirred  before.  Politi- 
cal institutions  are  crumbling.  Old 
forms  and  methods  are  fast  giving 
way  to  new  ones.  Political  organi- 
zations are  being  revolutionized, 
some  for  better  and  some  for  worse. 
Old  fundamental  principles  of  gov- 
ernment are  tottering.  Some  have 
even  been  replaced  by  theories  that 
are  not  tenable,  others  not  practi- 
cable, and  some  that  are  infamous. 

In  the  midst  of  this  world-com- 
motion the  home,  the  fundamental 
institution  of  society,  is  ako  threat- 
ened. In  contrast  to  this  funda- 
mental instruction  given  by  the 
Lord  I  should  like  to  read  what  I 
found,  yesterday,  written  by  a  man 
who  has  taken  a  general  survey  of 
the  condition  of  the  world  in  regard 
to  the  home : 

"Many  maintain  that  we  are  ready 
for  a  movement  into  community  liv- 
ing. There  are  those  who  raise  the 
question  whether  family  life  is  a 
permanent  form  of  social  organization 
for  which  we  may  wisely  contend.  Pr 
is  it  but  a  phase  from  which  the  race 
is  now  emerging?  Some  men  see 
signs  that  the  ties  of  marriage  will 
be  but  temporary,  that  children  will 
be  born,  not  into  families,  but  into 
the  life  of  the  State,  bearing  only 
mothers'  names  and  knowing  no 
brothers  and  sisters,  save  in  that 
brotherhood  of  the  State." 

The  author  of  that  paragraph 
wrote  those  sentiments  before  the 
revolution  in  Russia,  but  you  who 
have  followed  the  anarchy  that 
followed  the  overthrowing  of  the 
autocratic  form  of  government  in 
that  land  realize  how  literally  some 
men  have  attempted  to  strike  at 
the  sacredness  and  the  perpetuity  of 
family  life. 

Latter-day  Saints,  the  responsi- 
bility of  saving  this  sacred  institu- 


tion devolves  largely  upon  you,  for 
you  know  that  the  family  ties  are 
eternal.  They  should  be  eternal. 
There  is  nothing  temporary  in  the 
home  of  the  Latter-day  Saint. 
There  is  no  element  of  transitori- 
ness  in  the  family  relationship  of 
the  Latter-day  Saint  home.  That 
all  such  ties  are  eternal  should  be 
maintained.  To  the  Latter-day 
Saint  the  home  is  truly  the  cell- 
unit  of  society ;  and  parentnood  is 
next  to  Godhood.  The  relationship 
of  the  children  to  the  parents  should 
be  one  which  would  enable  those 
children  to  carry  out  ideal  citizen- 
ship as  they  become  related  to  the 
State  and  to  the  larger  forms  of 
society.  The  secret  of  good  citi- 
zenship lies  in  the  home.  The  se- 
cret of  instilling  faith  in  God,  faith 
in  his  Son,  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world,  faith  in  the  organizations  of 
the  Church,  lies  in  the  home.  There 
it  is  .centered.  C  God  has  placed 
.upon  you  parents  the  responsibility 
of  instilling  these  principles  into 
the  minds  of  children.  Church 
schools,  Sunday  schools,  Mutual 
Improvement  associations.  Primary 
and  Religion  classes  are  all  helps  in 
government,  established  here  to  as- 
sist in  the  upbuilding  and  guidance 
of  the  youth,  but  none  of  these — 
great  and  important  factors  as  they 
are  in  the  lives  of  our  youth — can 
supplant  the  permanence  and  the 
influence  of  the  parents  in  the 
home. 

There  are  a  few  fundamental 
principles  which  we  should  ever 
keep  in  mind.  First,  the  eternity  of 
the  marriage  relation.  Oh,  may 
our  youth  throughout  the  land 
realize  that  they  have  within  their 
grasp  the  possibilities  of  that  form 
of  marriage  which  will  contribute 
more  Jto  their  happiness  rin  this 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


world  and  their  eternal  union  and 
happiness  in  the  world  to  come  than 
can  be  obtained  anywhere  else  in 
the  world.  Let  our  young  men  and 
women  look  forward  with  pride, 
with  eagerness,  to  the  time  when, 
in  worthiness,  they  may  go  to  the 
House  of  God  and  have  their  love 
sealed  by  the  bonds  of  the  eternal 
priesthood.  No  element  that  is  tem- 
porary in  such  union  as  that !  Noth- 
ing that  is  passing  with  the  years ; 
but  binding  for  time  and  all  eter- 
nity. Second,  let  us  hold  to  that 
first  word  in  the  second  part  of  the 
fundamental  law  of  humanity,  the 
ten  commandments.  Those  first  few 
commandments  refer  to  our  rela- 
tionship to  God.  The  last  few  to 
our  relationship  to  humanity.  The 
second  part  begins  with  the  word 
honor — "Honor  thy  father  and  thy 
mother."  Let  us  cherish  in  our 
homes  as  we  cherish  the  lives  of 
our  children  themselves,  that  word 
honor  with  all  the  synonyms — re- 
spect, reverence,  veneration ;  hon- 
oring mother,  honoring  father, 
having  them  honor  us  as  we  honor 
and  revere  God  our  eternal  Father. 
Let  the  element  of  honor,  devotion, 
reverence  permeate  the  home  life. 
Thirdly,  let  us  never  lose  sight  of 
the  principle  of  obedience.  Obedi- 
ence is  heaven's  first  law,  and  it  is 
the  law  of  the  home.  There  can  be 
no  true  happiness  in  the  home  with- 
out obedience — obedience  obtained, 
not  through  physical  force,  but 
through  the  divine  element  of  love. 
There  is  no  home  without  love.  You 
may  have  a  palace  and  yet  not  have 
a  home,  and  you  may  live  in  a  log 
house  with  a  dirt  roof,  and  a  dirt 
floor,  and  have  there  the  most  glo- 
rious home  in  all  the  world,  if  with- 
in those  four  log  walls  there  per- 


meates the  divine  principle  ot  love, 
love  that  draws  from  husband  to 
wife  and  from  children  to  parents, 
that  blessed  obedience  and  compli- 
ance that  makes  life  worth  while. 

I  believe  firmly  that  parents  fail 
to  get  obedience  from  their  chil- 
dren during  the  first  five  years  of 
childhood.  I  believe  that  during 
that  most  important  period  of  child 
life  the  parents  sow  the  .seeds  of 
obedience  or  disobedience.  Some  of 
us  fill  that  period  of  child  life  with 
too  many  don'ts,  failing  to  make 
the  child  realize  that  a  request  from 
father,  a  request  from  mother 
should  be  complied  with.  Mother 
says :  "Don't  touch  that,"  to  the 
little  child.  The  little  child  tod- 
dles along  and  touches  it.  What 
is  the  result?  The  seeds  of  dis- 
obedience are  sown.  You  don't 
have  to  punish  the  little  child.  Lov- 
ingly, kindly,  but  firmly,  teach  the 
child  that  there  are"  rules  in  the 
house  which  should  be  obeyed. 
Mothers,  fathers,  treasure  sacredly 
and  sense  keenly  your  responsibil- 
ity to  the  child  during  those  first 
five  plastic  years  of  its  life.  With 
these  home  elements  I  desire  to 
mention  another,  and  that  is  mutual 
service,  each  working  for  the  other. 
If  some  of  these  pernicious  the- 
ories to  which  I  referred  shall  pre- 
vail and  take  out  from  the  home  the 
relationship  of  parents  to  children 
and  children  to  parents,  and  chil- 
dren to  each  other,  they  will  de- 
prive humanity  of  one  of  the  great- 
est means  of  teaching  the  true  spirit 
of  Christ — sacrifice  for  each  other, 
salvation  through  service.  O  that 
home  is  most  beautiful  in  which 
you  find  each  striving  to  serve  the 
other,  and  you  find  them,  too,  all 
through  the  Church.      Here  is  a 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


79 


young  woman  whose  father, 
through  misfortune,  lost  his  wealth. 
She  is  compelled  to  get  a  profes- 
sion, follow  it  for  her  livelihood  and 
to  assist  the  parents.  The  call 
comes  for  her  brother,  younger 
than  she,  to  go  on  a  mission.  He 
hasn't  much  means,  he  hasn't  any. 
The  ward,  through  entertainments 
and  service,  pays  his  fare  to  his 
missionary  field,  and  the  sister  for 
two  years,  shares  her  scanty  means 
to  keep  him  there  preaching  the 
gospel  of  Christ.  He  comes  home 
in  honor,  having  served  his  Lord 
and  brought  honest  souls  to  a  real- 
ization of  the  eternal  principles  of 
life.  When  he  throws  his  arms 
around  his  sister  in  the  home  greet- 
ing, he  says :  "Sister,  I  owe  you 
much,  I  owe  you  a  lot  of  money, 
too."  She  answers:  "'Not  one 
cent.  I  have  been  delighted  to  con- 
tribute my  mite  in  that  great  work." 
Mutual  service  in  the  home,  the 
Christ  spirit!  Two  testimonies 
strengthened  through  service  and 
self  sacrifice.  I  tell  you  we  cannot 
afford  to  eliminate  that  element 
from  home  life. 

Just  by  way  of  impressing  these 
principles  upon  your  minds  I  will 
say,  incidentally,  that  if  I  change 
the  order  slightly  you  will  find  that 
by  combining  the  first  letters  they 
will  spell  home,  and  it  seems  to  me 
they  comprehend  the  spirit  in  which 
the  principles  of  life  and  salvation 
should  be  taught  to  children. 
Honor,  obedience,  mutual  service, 
eternity  of  the  marriage  relation. 
God  help  us  as  parents  to  send  from 
our  homes  true  Latter-day  Saints, 
boys  and  girls  who  cio  not  hesitate 
to  bear  testimony  of  their  member- 
ship in  the  Church,  more  than  that, 
boys  and  girls  who  are  eager  to  go 
out  into  the  world  and  bear  testi- 


mony to  the  world  that  the  mar- 
riage relationship  is  an"  eternal  one, 
that  the  home  is  a  permanent  and 
eternal  institution  against  which  no 
theory  that  strikes  at  the  purity  and 
honor  of  womanhood,  that  deprives 
children  of  fatherhood,  or  the  love 
of  mother,  can  stand  or  in  any  way 
attack  that  institution.  God  help  us 
fathers  and  mothers  to  build  such 
homes.  While  we  are  beautifying 
th  em  without,  keep  within  them  the 
spirit  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

In  this  respect,  I  know  of  no  bet- 
ter example  than  the  home  of  our 
late  beloved  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith.  His  sons,  his  daughters, 
his  wives,  are  true  to  the  gospel, 
true  to  the  truth.  Thev  loved  and 
honored  President  Smith,  but 
through  that  they  love  and  honor 
that  which  is  even  greater — the 
truth,  the  gospel.  His  closing  words 
to  his  sons  and  daughters,  I  think, 
are  a  classic.  On  November  10, 
1918,  he  expressed  his  heart's 
truest  sentiments  to  those  boys  and 
girls  who  stood  around  him  saying, 
and  mind  you,  these  are  almost  his 
last  words:  "When  I  look  around 
me  and  see  my  boys  and  my  girls 
whom  the  Lord  has  given  to  me— 
and  I  realize  I  have  succeeded,  with 
his  help,  to  make  them  tolerably 
comfortable  and  at  least  respecta- 
able  in  the  world — I  have  reached 
the  treasure  of  my  life,  the  whole 
substance  that  makes  life  worth  liv- 
ing." God  sanctify  those  words  to 
us  that  we,  too,  may  obtain  "the 
treasure  of  life — the  whole  sub- 
stance that  makes  life  worth  liv- 
ing." I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

J.  R.  Boshard  and  Elizabeth  Ev- 
ans sang  a  duet :  "Thy  Kingdom  of 
Love." 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

The  surrender  of  Lord  Cornwallis  an 
event  of  great  importance,  bearing 
on  today's  civil  and  religious  lib- 
erty— The  past  year  the  most  event- 
ful in  the  history  of  both  Govern- 
ment and  Church — Our  direct  con- 
tact with  the  great  world  war — The 
stupendous  accomplishment  of  our 
Nation  in  the  war — The  need  of 
united  effort  in  Church  and  Nation 
— Capital  and  Labor  must  be 
brought  together  in  union  of  in- 
terest— We  must  have  just  laws  and 
men  of  character  to  administer 
them — Fewer  politicans  and  more 
unselfish  statesmen — God  give  us 
men  who  will  stand  for  the  right 
and  for  law  and  order  in  both 
Church  and  Nation. 

"For  the  former  things  art. 
passed  away,  and  he  that  sat  uppL 
the  throne  said :  Behold  I  make 
all  things  new." 

The  proceedings  of  the  confer- 
ence, my  brethren  and  sisters,  and 
my  own  reflections,  as  I  have 
thought  of  the  immediate  past, 
and  the  probabilities'  of  the  future, 
have  prompted  me  to  read  this 
scripture  from  tb)e  revelation  to 
St.  John,  upon  the  Isle  of  Patmos, 
as  a  basis  for  the  brief  remarks 
which  I  expect  to  make  this  morn- 
ing. 

It  is  now  137  years  since  the 
Surrender  of  Lord  Cornwatlis, 
and  the  British  Army  which  he 
commanded,  at  Yorktown,  which 
made  possible  the  establishment  of 
the  confederacy  of  the  states  known 
as  the  United  States  of  America. 
It  was  an  event  which  meant  more 
to  the  people  of  the  world  than 
men  of  the  time  dreamed.  It  is 
true  that  representatives  of  the 
three  millions  of  people  who  con- 
stituted the  original  thirteen  col- 
onies, hoped,  and  expected  that 
the  system  which  they  founded 
would  endure,  that  the  right  of 
self-government    would  descend 


to  their  children,  that  America 
would  become  and  forever  re- 
main a  gathering  place,  an  asylum, 
for  the  oppressed  and  down-trod- 
den of  all  nations,  but  that  the 
seed  sown  at  that  time  would 
within  a  period  of  137  years  re- 
sult in  the  breaking  clown  of  king- 
craft, the  crash  of  monarchies,  and 
the  establishment  of  free  govern- 
ment throughout  the  civilized 
.world  was  neither  hoped  for  nor 
expected.  It  was  an  event  of 
great  importance  to  the,  world  and 
particularly  so  to  us  who  are  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  of  Christ  be-  ■ 
cause  it  opened  the  way  for  the 
breaking  down  of  religious  prejud- 
ice and  recognition  of  the  doc- 
trine that  just  as  man  was  entitled 
to  enjoy  life,  liberty,  and  to  pur- 
sue happiness  in  his  own  way,  so 
long  as  he  did  not  interfere  with 
the  rights  of  his  neighbor,  so  was 
it  his  privilege  to  worship  the 
Lor,d  according  to  the  dictates  of 
conscience,  let  him  worship  who, 
where  or  what  he  may  desire. 

Eio-hty-nine  years  ago  the 
Church  was  organized,  and  since 
tha^  time  it  has  been  the  custom  of 
the  members  to  meet  together  on 
the  6th  day  of  April  in  general 
conference,  as  we  are  assembled 
here  today,  the  present  date  being 
somewhat  delayed  because  of  cir- 
cumstances over  which  we  had  no 
control.  The  purpose  of  these 
meetings  is  to  transact  the  busi- 
ness of  the  Church,  review  the 
past,  and  plan  for  the  future,  that 
we  may  determine  by  comparison 
the  growth  and  development  of  the 
Church.  The  present  is,  of  course, 
of  greater  importance  to  us  than 
either  the  past  or  future,  because 
it  is  our  day,,  but  our  lives  are  so 
closely  associated  with  the  past  and 
the  future  is  of  so  great  impor-- 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


81 


ance  to  us,  that  we  cannot  confine 
ourselves  entirely  to  existing  con- 
ditions. By  the  experiences  of  the 
past,  if  we  are  discreet,  we  learn 
wisdom.  The  paths  trodden  by 
those  who  have  passed  away  are 
paths  of  safety,  or  danger,  to  us 
'as  they  have  been  to  those  who 
have  walked  in  them  before  us. 
The  pitfalls  are  marked,  the  shoals 
and  reefs  have  been  charted,  and 
only  a  careless  or  headstrong 
mariner  will  fall  into  the  pits,  or 

-  drive  his  vessel  upon  the  rocks 
where  others  have  been  wrecked. 
Since  the  establishment  of  the 
the  Church,  both  Church  and  Nation 
have  experienced  periods  of  trial 
which  have  shaken  the  very  founda- 
tions upon  which  they  rest.  There 
have  been  times  when  the  perpe- 
turity  of  the  government  has  been 
threatened  by  war  with  foreign 
powers,  and  by  fratricidal  strife; 
but  upon  each  occasion  it  has 
emerged  stronger,  more  stead- 
fast than  before.  The  same 
condition  applies  to  the  Church,  it 
has  been  assailed  by  enemies  from 
without  and  by  schisms  within,  but 
notwithstanding  these  efforts  to 
destroy  it,  it  has  with  each  suc- 
ceeding 1  year  grown  stronger,  ex- 
tending its  power  and  influence  for 
good  as  the  years  have  rolled  by. 
We  are  now  met  together  again, 
representatives  of  the  Church  from 
all  parts  of  the  world,  where  the 
gospel  has  been  preached  and 
branches  of  the  Church  organized, 
to  review  occurrences  of  the  most 
eventful  vear  in  our  history,  the 

,  most  eventful  year  in  the  history  of 
the  modern  world,  to  consider  the 
requirements  of  the  Church  and  the 
Government  of  which  we  form  a 
part  and.  plan  for  the  future,  in  so, 
far  as  we  are  capable  of  doing  with 
our  finite  wisdom  and  knowledge. 


I  refer  to  both  the  government  and 
the  Church  because  to  me  that 
which  is  vital  to  one  is  of  equal  im- 
portance to  the  other.  Without 
just  laws  by  which  society  may  be 
controlled  and  the  rights  of  the 
people  protected,  and  honest,  con- 
scientious men  to  administer  them, 
the  Church  cannot  exist.  It  never 
has  been  able  to  exist  without  them  ; 
and  without  the  influence  of  the 
Church,  which  teaches  honesty, 
morab>^  ^"votion  to  dutv,  respect 
for  the  law  and  the  patriotic  sup- 
port of  the  men  who  enact  and  en- 
force, there  cannot,  in  mv  opinion, 
-"A  just  government. 

Dunne  the  past  vear  the  Church 
has  been  brought  into  direct  con- 
tact for  the  first  time  with  a  great 
world  war.  It  is  true  that  on  other 
occasions  comparatively  small  num- 
bers of  its  members  have  served  in 
the  armies  of  our  country,  but 
never  before  has  the  effect  of  war 
been  so  universally  felt  and  the  peo- 
ple put  to  a  similar  test.  Believ- 
ing, as  we  do,  in  the  divine  doctrine 
of  peace,  as  it  was  taught  by  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world,  abhorring 
the  shedding  of  blood,  believing  in 
the  universal  fatherhood  of  God 
and  brotherhood  of  man,  war  was 
abhorrent  to  us;  but  when  our 
country  called,  when  it  became 
necessarv  to  take  up  arms  in  de- 
fense of  the  principles  for  which 
our  government  stands,  we  re- 
sponded as  cheerfully  and  per- 
formed our  part  as  bravely  as  did 
anv  other  citizens  of  the  republic. 

During  the  past  year,  as  has  been 
stated,  one  of  the  most  desolating 
scourges  of  sickness  ever  known 
has  passed  over  the  land.  An  un- 
precedented number  of  our  Church 
members  have  been  stricken,  and 
many  of  our  most  useful  and  es- 
teemed brethren  and  sisters  have 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


passed  away.  During  the  past  year 
the  Church  has  lost,  as  you  all 
know,  its  honored,  esteemed  and 
beloved  president.  For  seventeen 
years  President  Smith  had  presided 
over  the  Church,  had  directed  its 
policy  and  to  a  great  extent  shaped 
its  destiny.  We  believed  in  the  di- 
vinity of  his  prophetic  calling,  had 
confidence  in  his  wisdom  and  judg- 
ment, felt  that  -his  example  and 
teachings  were  indispensable  to  the 
welfare  of  the  Church,  but  the 
Lord  saw  fit  to  take  him,  and  call 
another  to  stand  in  his  place,  a  new 
man  to  direct  the  policy  of  the 
Church  in  this  new  era  upon  which 
we  are  entering,  in  this  new  world, 
for  the  world  of  1919  is  not  the 
same  world  which  existed  a  year 
ago.  The  government,  like  the 
Church,  has  passed  through  experi- 
ences, the  like  of  which  have  never 
before  been  known.  No  nation  has 
ever  before,  within  the  same  period 
of  time,  mobilized  from  raw  re- 
cruits, armed  and  equipped,  trans- 
ported across  the  sea,  furnished 
commissary  for,  trained  and  sent 
to  the  battle  front  such  an  army  of 
fighting  men  as  has  the  United 
States  of  America.  Men  may  criti- 
cise that  which  has  been  'done,  raav 
tell  you  how  it  might  have  been 
better  done,  but  the  fact  remains 
that  the  most  stupendous  undertak- 
ing which  the  world  has  even 
known  has  been  successfully  ac- 
complished. 

One  year  ago  the  question  of  the 
courage  and  devotion  of  the  Ameri- 
can soldier,  when  he  might  reach 
the  old  world,  was  one  of  common 
discussion.  Since  the  events  winch 
occurred  one  vear  ago  vesterday 
and  today,  when  American  ma- 
rines and  infantry,  for  the  first 
time  went  into  action  at  Chateau- 
Thierry,  that  question  has  been  set 


at  rest,  for  never  before  in  the  his- 
tory of  the  world  have  men  shown 
greater  courage,  greater  devotion, 
greater  self-sacrifice  than  has  the 
American  soldier  upon  the  battle 
fields  of  France.  Men  have  criti- 
cised, and  will  continue  to  criticise, 
that  splendid  citizen-soldier  who  has 
commanded  our  armies  abroad,  will 
tell  you  that  the  success  of  our 
arms  was  not  due  to  his  intelligence 
or  generalship,  but  it  is  a  well- 
known  fact  that  no  American  com- 
mander was  ever  before  confronted 
bv  conditions  so  difficult  and  well 
nigh  insurmountable  and  that  under 
his  leadership  the  war  was  brought 
to  a  speedy  and  successful  term- 
ination. Men  have  criticised,  and 
1  suppose  will  continue  to  criticise 
and  seek  to  belittle  the  man  who  has 
stood  as  the  representative  of  the 
American  people,  and  American 
ideals,  through  this  critical  and 
eventful  period ;  will  question  his 
judgment,  his  patriotism,  and  will 
not  hesitate  to  grossly  attack  his 
character  in  their  efforts  to  discredit 
his  administration,  but  the  fact  re- 
mains, and  will  be  so  written  in  his- 
tory, that  President  Wilson  has 
been  confronted  by  the  most  diffi- 
cult, the  most  intricate  and  complex 
questions  which  have  ever  confront- 
ed a  President  of  the  United  States. 
The  Lord  be  praised  that  he  has 
managed  them  as  well  as  he  has. 

You  may  ask  :  what  has  this  to 
do  with  this  conference  and  the 
welfare  of  the  Church?  I  have 
called  attention  to  the  fact  that  we 
are  entering  upon  a  new  era,  are 
upon  the  threshold  of  a  new  world. 
Changes  have  come  to  the  Church, 
and  many  other  changes  will  come. 
I  cannot  perceive  "ay  careful  per- 
sonal observation;  that  these 
changes  have  created  a  ripple  of 
confusion    or    dissension    in  the 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  WINS 


83 


Church.  Without  exception  this 
splendid  body  of  men  who  make  up 
the  presiding  authorities  of  the 
Church,  stand  solidly  behind  the 
new  Presidency,  and  if  this  condi- 
tion shall  continue  there  can  be  no 
doubt  regarding  the  success  of  this 
administration;  but  let  me  ask  you 
this  question :  Suppose  that  we  who 
are  nearest  to  President  Grant  and 
his  counselors,  these  presidents  of 
stakes,  were  constantly  seeking  oc- 
casion to  discredit  that  which  they 
do,  criticising  their  policy  without 
offering  a  better,  sowing  the  seeds 
of  dissension  among  the  people, 
suppose  that*  we,  in  order  to  ai. 
complish  our  own  ambitious  pur- 
poses, were  sowing  the  seeds  of 
distrust  and  dissension  among  the 
members  of  the  Church,  how  long 
would  it  continue  to  exist?  it 
would  soon  be  converted  into 
broken  fragments  without  cohesion 
or  power.  Not  one  of  us, '  I  am 
sure,  desires  this  condition;  and  if 
we  adhere  to  our  past  and  present 
•policy,  each  man  and  woman  seek- 
ing first  the  establishment  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Heaven  upon  earth, 
and  the  Lord's  righteousness,  it 
will  never  come,  but  the  Church 
will  enter  upon  this  new  era  with 
a  strength  and  power  of  develop- 
ment such  as  it  has  never  before 
known.  What  I  say  of  the  Church 
I  apply  to  the  Government.  We 
need  it.  We  must  have  it,  and  I 
can  not  conceive  that  we  can  be 
true  to  one  and  untrue  to  the  other. 
I  can  not  conceive  that  I  have  obli- 
gations of  duty  and  service  to  my 
brethren  and  sisters  in  the  Church 
which  I  do  not  owe  to  my  fellow 
citizens  in  the  State,  and  if  I  see 
danger  ahead  for  my  country,  it 
is  my  duty  to  declare  it  as  it  is  to 
ward  off'  danger  from  the  Church, 
and  I  fancy  that  I  see  such  danger 


for  my  country.  The  State,  like 
the  Church,  is  entering  upon  a  new 
era,  is  upon  the  threshold  of  a  new 
world.  Without  sacrificing  funda- 
mentals, old  policies  and  preju- 
dices must  give  way,  selfishness,  the 
curse  of  the  modern  world,  whether 
it  be  personal,  community  or 
national,  must  give  way  to  a 
broader,  more  liberal,  more  states- 
manlike policv,  The  selfishness  of 
the  poor,  who  look  with  greedy 
eyes  upon  the  possessions  of  those 
who,  by  their  industry  and  econ- 
omy, have  accumulated  plenty,  and 
a  desire  to  take  it  without  the  con- 
sent of  the  owner,  or  giving  value 
received  for  it,  the  inordinate  sel- 
fishness and  greed  of  the  rich,  who 
grind  down  the  poor,  who  shut 
their  eyes  and  close  their  ears  to 
the  cry  of  the  needy  in  order  that 
they  may  add  to  their  ill-gotten 
gains,  are  the  two  great  elements 
of  danger  which  I  see  for  our  gov- 
ernment. Governments  have  been 
wrecked  by  them  since  the  begin- 
ning of  time.  Why  should  we  close 
our  eyes  to  the  experiences  of  the 
past?  Some  means  must  be  found 
by  which  those  who  toil,  who  pro- 
duce the  wealth  of  the  world,  may 
more  justly  share  in  the  fruits  of 
their  labors.  \  By  which  those  who 
have  in  abundance  may  be  protected 
in  the  possession  of  that  which  is 
justly  theirs.  Unless  a  plan  be 
found  bv  which  capital  and  labor 
may  be  brought  together  on  a  basi> 
of  riarhteousness,  the  time  is  not 
far  distant  when  the  condition1; 
which  prevail  in  the  old  world  will 
be  enacted  in  our  own  beloved 
country.  One  thing  is  indispens- 
able to  the  perpetuity  of  our  sys- 
tem of  government. 

It  is  not  so  much  the  enactment 
of  just  laws,  however  important 
th:.t  may  be,  as  it  is  the  character 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


of  the  men  who  administer  them ; 

ir  th"  best  of  laws,  if  administered 
by  selfish,  dishonest  men,  amount 
to  little  nothing.  What  our 
country  needs,  is  more  unselfish 
statesmen  and  fewer  professional 
politicians.  Personally  I  can  see 
little  difference  between  the  man 

1  who  by  sabbotage  prevents  the  harv- 
esting of  the  crops  of  the  West, 
where  the  people  cry  for  bread, 
stops  fkf  "'heels  of  the  factories  in 
the  East,  while  the  people  shiver 
with  cold,  and  the  member  of  Con- 
gress who,  by  sabbotage,  under  an- 
other name,  obstructs  legislation, 
stops  the  wheels  of  commerce,  re- 
fuses appropriations  designed  to 
proyi.de  for  the  industries  of  the 
Country,  to  feed  its  army,  provide 
for  its  navy  and-  render  assistance 
to  a  dying  world  which  in  an- 
guish looks  on  and  cries  for  succor, 
and  all  to  accomplish  his  own  am- 
bitious purposes  and  satisfy  his 
petty  spite.  It  seems  to  me  that 
never  before  were  the  words  01 
T.  G.  Holland  more  anplicable  than 
they  are  today,  when  we  are  con- 
fronted by  these  universal  world- 
wide conditions,  which  either  mean 
the  destruction  of  society  or  its 
protection.  He  long  ago  said : 
"God  give  us  men.  A  time  like  this 
requires  strong  minds,  great  hearts, 
true  faith  and  ready  hands ;  men 
whom  the  lust  of  office  does  not 
kill,  men  whom  the  spoils  of  office 
cannot  buy;  for  while  the  rabble 

•with  their  thumb-worn  creeds,  their 
great  pretentions  and  their  little 
deeds,  mingle  in  selfish  strife,  lo 
freedom  weeps,  wrong  rules  the 
land,  and  waiting  justice  sleeps." 

The  Lord  has  spoken  plainly  to 
us  who  are  of  the  Church  upon  this 
question,  has  told  us  that  many  are 
called  but  few  are  chosen.  Why 
(are  they  not    chosen?  Because 


their  hearts  are  set  so  much  upon 
the  things  of  this  world,  and -aspire 
to  the  honors  of  men,  that  they 
forget  this  one  lesson :  that  the 
rights  of  the  priesthood  are  insep- 
arably connected  with  the  poweis 
of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of 
heaven  cannot  be  controlled  or  ex- 
ercised, except  upon  principles  of 
righteousness;  that  whenever  we 
use  it  to  accomplish  our  own  am- 
ibitious  purposes,  to  satisfy  'our 
own  pride  or  exercise  dominion  by 
'compulsion  over  the  souls  of  men, 
in  any  degree  of  unrighteousness, 
amen  to  the  priesthood  and  author- 
ity of  that  man. 

I  believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters 
that  this  doctrine  applies  to  men 
who  are  engaged  in  the  adminis- 
tration of  civil  affairs,  as  it  does  to 
those  who  are  engaged  in  work  for 
the  Church ;  for  whether  men  be- 
lieve it  or  not,  the  powers  of 
heaven  do  dominate  this  earth,  and 
woe  to  the  man  who  ignores  it. 
He  will  reap  that  which  he  sows, 
as  many  people  in  the  world  today 
are  reaping  the  harvest  from  the 
seed  which  they  have  sown.  And 
so  my  appeal  to  you  is  to  put  away 
from  us  all,  as  far  as  we  can,  per- 
sonal selfishness  and  ambition,  to 
desist  from  unjust  criticism  of  the 
men  in  the  Church,  and  in  the 
State,  who  stand  for  that  which  is 
right  for  the  maintenance  of  law 
and  order,  for  the  protection  of  tht 
rights  of  society,  that  we  give  patri- 
otic and  unselfish  service  to  both 
the  Church  and  the  State,  service 
which  is  freely  given;  for  a  gift 
given  or  duty  performed,  if  done 
grudgingly,  counts  us  for  little  or 
nothing.  May  the  Lord  help  us, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  look  in- 
to this  new  world  with  enlarged 
vision,  to  comprehend  our  duties 
to  it,  and  to  each  other,  and  faith- 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


85 


fully  perform  them.  I  humbly 
pray.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  have  been  listening  to  truth, 
so  we  will  ask  the  congregation  to 
arise  and  join  in  singing  John 
Jaques's  inspired  hymn — "O,  Say, 
What  is  Truth :" 

O,  say,  what  is  truth?  'Tis  the  fairest 
gem 

That  the  riches  of  worlds  can  pro- 
duce; 

And  priceless  the  value  of  truth  will 
be  when 

The>  proud   monarch's    costliest  dia- 
dem 

Is  counted*  but  dross  and  refuse. 

Yes,  say,  what  is   truth?     'Tis  the 
brightest  prize 
To   which    mortals   or    Gods  >  can 
aspire: 

Go  search  in  the     depths  where  it 

glittering  lies, 
Or  ascend  in  pursuit  to  the  loftiest 

skies, 

'Tis   an  aim   for  the   noblest  de- 
sire. 

The  sceptre  may  fall  from  the  des- 
pot's grasp, 
When  with     winds  of     stern  jus- 
tice he  copes, 

But  the  pillar  of  truth  will  endure 
to  the  last, 

And  its  firm-rooted     bulwarks  out- 
stand  the  rude  blast, 
And  the  wreck  of  the  fell  tyrant's 
hopes. 

Then,  say,  what  is  truth?    'Tis  the 
last  and  the  first, 
For  the  limits  of  time  it  steps  o'er: 
Though  the  heavens  depart,  and  the 

earth's  fountains  burst, 
Truth,  the     sum  of  existence,  will 
weather  the  worst, 
Eternal,  unchanged,  evermore. 

J.  Jaques. 

Following  the  singing  of  the 
hymn,  President  Grant  said: 

Usually,  in  our  conference  pro- 
ceedings, the  hymn    is  mentioned 


and  the  first  line  recorded,  but  I 
would  request  Brother  Edward  H. 
Anderson,  our  clerk,  to  see  that  in 
publishing  the  proceedings  of  this 
conference,  this  inspired  hymn 
shall  appear  in  full. 

Since  our  last  meeting  the  va- 
cancy caused  by  the  .death  of  our 
beloved  President  has  been  filled 
by  my  being  taken  from  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve,  creating  a  va- 
cancy in  that  Council,  and  Brother 
Melvin  J.  Ballard  has  been  sus- 
tained by  you  here,  yesterday,  to 
fill  the  vacancy  in  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve.  We  will  now  ask 
Brother  Ballard  to  occupy  the  bal- 
ance of  the  time  in  this  meeting. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

Scourges  have  a  lesson  and  a  mean- 
ing of  great  significance — Testi- 
monies of  Nature — The  wisdom  of 
men  cannot  counteract  the  scourges 
of  God — Through  calamities  and 
judgments  the  Lord  often  touches 
the  hearts  of  men — Why  the  inno- 
cent and  the  good  suffer  affliction 
— The  answer  from  the  Lord  who 
speaks  through  the  suffering  of  the 
good,  that  all  mav  repent — Let  us 
therefore  resolve  to  serve  God  bet- 
ter than  ever  that  we  may  escape 
the  judgments  or  tomorrow — 
Danger  in  material  prosperity — 
But  God  is  at  the  helm. 

The  circumstance  which  has 
postponed  the  -annual  conference 
of  the  Church  from  April  until 
June  has  already  been  commented 
upon.  I  feel,  however,  that  it  is  a 
matter  of  sufficient  importance  to 
call  your  attention  to  it  again,  i 
believe  that  the  events  that  have 
transpired  have  a  lesson  and  a 
meaning  of  great  significance  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints  and  to  .  the 
world.  I  believe  that  it  is  pleasing 
to  the  Lord  for  us  to  contemplate 
these  things  that  are  occurring,  ana 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  learn  the  lessons  which  he  in- 
tends we  should  and,  therefore,  mv 
mind  and  my  thoughts  have  been 
''welling  upon  this  matter  for  some 
time  past.  I  believe  that  the  Lord 
understood  exactly  what  was  to 
transpire.  I  read  in  the  ,  first  sec- 
tion of  the  book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  in  the  Lord's  preface  to 
this  book,  that  he,  the  Lord,  know- 
ing those  things  that  would  happen 
in  the  last  days,  the  judgments 
that  would  come,  war  and  pesti- 
lence,etc.,  spoke  through  his  serv- 
ant, the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and 
addressed  the  whole  world  through 
this  humble  instrumentality,  reveal- 
ing the  fulness  of  the  everlasting 
gospel,  giving  command  that  the 
elders  of  the  Church  should  carr\ 
this  message  and  warning,  that  this 
is  the  hour  of  God's  judgment,  and 
that  the  Lord  had  provided  the 
means  of  escape  through  the  resto- 
ration of  the  everlasting  gospel, 
and  that  the  elders  of  the  Church 
were  to  carry  this  message  to  the 
islands  of  the  sea  and  to  the  nations 
of  the  earth.  I  believe,  as  we  re- 
view the  efforts  of  our  brethren — 
our  fathers,/)ur  grandfathers,  who 
have  endeavored  to  perform  this 
duty,  that  they  stand  with  their 
skirts  clear  of  the  blood,  of  this 
generation.  By  thousands  and  tens 
of  thousands  they  have  gone  to  the 
islands  of  the  sea,  to  the  lands  of 
the  earth,  to  countries  where  they 
were  not  wanted,  where  they  were 
imprisoned,  and  from  which  they 
were  exiled,  and  many  of  them 
have  given  up  their  lives  there, 
through  being;  martyred  or  through 
disease.  They  have  given  their 
best.  Nothing  has  deterred  them. 
-  None  of  the  things  of  the  earth 
that  are  attractive  to  men  have 
swerved  these  brethren  from  the 


discharge  of  their  duty;  so  that  we 
have,  I  believe,  a  record  that  is 
clean  and  clear,  and  we  have  per- 
formed our  duty  towards  the 
world. 

Among  those  judgments  which 
the  Lord  said  would  come — after 
the  testimony  of  his  servants,  cry- 
ing repentance  to  the  nations  of  the 
earth,  and  offering  the  means  of  es- 
cape through  the  acceptance  of  his 
gospel — should  be  the  testimonies 
of  thunder,  of  lightning,  of  earth- 
quakes, of  the  sea  heaving  itself 
beyond  its  bounds,  of  plague,  01 
famine  and  of  pestilence.  I  believe 
in  my  soul  that  the  Lord  is  speak- 
ing to  the  nations  of  the  earth,  fol- 
lowing the  testimony  of  his  hum- 
ble servant.  You  will  recall,  in  the 
forty-fifth  section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  what  the  Lord  said 
to  his  servant,  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
concerning  some  of  these  judg- 
ments. I  believe  that  in  part  at 
least  we  find  a  fulfilment  of  one  of 
the  calamities  that  the  Lord  said 
would  come  in  consequence  of  the 
wickedness  and  the  rebellion  of  the 
people  against  that  message  which 
the  Lord .  delivered  for  the  salva- 
tion of  the  world.  You  will  find 
it  in  the  thirty-first  verse.  "There 
shall  be  men  standing  in  that  gen- 
eration"— the  generation  in  which 
he  was  then  speaking — "that  shall 
not  pass,  until  they  shall  see  an 
overflowing  scourge ;  for  a  deso- 
lating sickness  shall  cover  the  land." 
We  may  have  laughed  at  that.  Men 
have,  in  the  past,  tried  to  relegate 
the  judgments  of  God  into  the  < 
realm  of  accident,  things  that  have 
happened  because  of  the  ignorance 
of  men.  I  recall,  mvself.  reading 
how  that  the  great  black  plague 
r*"'1  other  plasties  that  have  infesten 
the  world  have  been  attributed  to 


ELDER  MELV1N  J.  BALLARD 


87 


the  ignorance  of  the  people ;  and 
writers,  modern  .scientists,  have 
said,  that  such  a  thing  never  could 
happen  again,  because  we  know  so 
much  about  the  laws  of  sanitation, 
how  to  correct  disease  and  control 
it ;  and  they  have  told  us  that  such 
a  scourge  could  not  occur  in  this 
day.  We  stand  at  the  zenith  of  our 
knowledge  ;  never-  before  have  men 
known  so  much  about  bacteriology 
and  sanitation;  and  yet  coming 
from  unknown  quarters,  and  mak- 
ing its  way — men  do  not  know 
how — from  city  to  city,  from  in- 
dividual to  inividual,  there 
has  come  upon  the  world  this 
dread  affliction  that  has  af- 
fected us  so  that  our  general  con- 
ference had  to  be  postponed.  I  be- 
lieve in  my  soul  that  it  is  the  Lord 
speaking,  even  as  he  has  spokei. 
,  before,  when  men  undertook  to 
build  so  they  could  preserve  them- 
selves against  calamities.  When 
they  built  a  tower  to  reach  so  high 
that  the  floods  of  the  earth  could 
not  touch  them,  he  was  greater  than 
all  their  towers.  He  stands  above 
all  man's .  feeble  efforts  to  protect 
himself  from  the  calamities  antr 
judgments  that  are  going  to  come 
upon  the  children  of  men,  if  they 
do  not  repent.  You  recall  how  that 
after  th<*  building  of  what  was 
termed  the  "non-sinkable  ship,"  the 
great  Titanic,  it  sailed  away  from 
the  shores  of  England,  with  a  boast 
on  the  lips  the  men  and  women 
who  drank  their  toast  to  the  won- 
derful achievements  of  men  in 
building  a  non-sinkable  ship.  Little 
did  they  think  that  in  a  few  houra 
that  great  ship  would  strike  an  ice- 
berg and  go  down  to  the  depths  of 
the  sea. 

So,  no  man  has  been  able  to  build 
so  well,  and  no  man  has  yet 
acquired  knowledge  and  informa- 


tion so  that  he  can  secure  himself 
against  the  hand  of  the  Lord,  if  he 
desires  to  reach  him  and  touch  him  ; 
for  we  stand  helpless  before  him. 
Physicians  have  discussed  the  sub- 
ject of  the  influenza-pneumonia 
scourge,  and  have  adjourned -their 
meetings  unable  to  decide  just 
what  it  is.  They  have  called  it  the 
"unknown  disease,"  or  the  "X  dis- 
ease." Ordinary  nurses  have  been 
more  successful  than  skilled  physi- 
cians in  preserving  the  lives  of 
many.  The  deaths  that  have  oc- 
curred in  the  world  are  appalling. 
Recently  w  learned  that  in  India 
alone  there  have  been  more  than 
six  million  persons  who  have  died 
with  this  affliction.  When  I  have 
contrasted  the  results  among  the 
Latter-dav  Saints,  I  believe  that  I 
am  safe  in  saying  that  no  commu- 
nity in  the  world  has  been  touched 
so  lightly  as  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
There  are  th'^e  huixlrc'  thousand 
people  living  in  Portland,  Oregon, 
and  T  remember  that  it  was  re- 
ported that  two  thousand  persons 
perished  there  during  the  inflneiii'-1 
epidemic.  c^  there  were  twir*»  °<? 
many  deaths  from  xthat  cause  in 
Portland,  last  year,  as  there  were 
in  the  entire  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-dav  Saints,  and  its  popu- 
lation is  certainly  greater  than  three 
hundred  tbr-'icand.  Yet  Portland 
har1  a  record,  according  to  the  sta 
tistics,  lower  than  most  of  the  cities 
in  the  United  States.  My  heart 
was  touched,  because  many  times 
we  had  to  administer  the  last  rites 
for  those  who  did  not  belong  to 
the  Church.  The  morgues  were 
full,  and  there  were  not  enough 
ministers  to  conduct  the  services. 
I  remember  being  greatly  affected 
when  we  put  into  one  grave  three 
beautiful  children,  from  one  fam- 
ily, and  laying    mothers  into  the 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


graves,  who  were  taken  away  from 
their  children,  who  were  greatly  in 
need  of  their  help. 

I  recall  one  circumstance  when 
at  the  cemetery  three  funerals  were 
being  conducted  at  the  same  time, 
and  we  were  so  close  together  that 
we  had  to  wait  our  turn  in  giving 
the  opportunity  for  each  group  of 
mourners,  peacefully,  to  lay  their 
dead  into  the  ground.  My  heart 
was  touched,  I  say,  as  I  listened  to 
.the  wail  of  grief  that  came  forth 
from  each  group  of  mourners  as 
the  last  rites  were  said.  I  with- 
drew behind  a  little  clump  of  trees 
and  cried  earnestly  to  my  Father 
in  Heaven  to  know  why  innocent 
children,  should  perish,  why  moth- 
ers should  be  taken  away  who  were 
needed  in  their  families — good,  true 
Latter-day  Saints,  many  of  them. 
I  received  an  answer  which  was 
satisfactory  to  my  soul,  and  it  was 
that  this  was  the  judgment  of  God, 
even  as  he  had  said  that  his  judg- 
ments would  be  poured  out  upoi, 
the  nations  of  the  earth,  if  they  did 
not  repent ;  that  the  Lord  wa,h 
speaking  to  the  children  of  men,  be- 
<-?vz  the  day  of  the  coming;  of  t\v 
Redeemer  was  nigh  at  hand,  an  1 
men  could  not  live  in  their  wickea- 
ness  and  see  him.  They  must  re- 
pent or  they  ,  shall  perish,  and  the 
Lord  was  trying  to  touch  the  hearts 
of  the  children  of  men  through  this 
judgment. 

But  why  the  Latter-day  Sain'.s 
— why  should  they  be  afflicted? 
They  have  received  the  message  of 
the  gospel,  or  their  fathers,  in  for- 
eign lands,  and  have,  tn  a  measure 
at  least,  accepted  of  the  means  of 
escape  from  these  calamities.  Then 
the  words  of  one  of  those  revela- 
iV>".s  came  to  my  mind,  which  was 
fully  .satisfactory  to  me.  I  refer 
to  the  ninety-seventh  section  of  tht 


book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
with  which  perhaps  you  are  all 
familiar.  You  will  rind  in  the 
twenty-second  verse  what  I  am 
now  reading: 

"For  behold,  ana  lo,  vengeance 
cometh  speedily  upon  the  ungodly — 
and  who  shall  escape  it?" 

"The  Lord's  scourge  shall  pass  over 
by  night  and  by  day,  and  the  report 
thereof  shall  vex  all  people;  yet  it 
shall  not  be  stayed  .  until  the  Lord 
come." 

In  that  connection  I  want  toi 
read  you  something  from  the  fifth 
section  of  the  book  of  Covenants, 
dealing  with  this .  subject;  for,  lei 
us  not  say  to  ourselves  that  we 
are  out  of  the  woods,  that  the 
trouble  is  past,  and'  no  more 
trouble  will  come.  I  would  to  the 
Lord  that  we  had  arrived  at  thai 
state,  when  this  would  be  possible, 
but  we  are  not  there  yet.  You 
will  find  here  in  the  nineteenth 
verse  of  the  fifth  section : 

"For  a  desolating  scourge  shall 
go  forth  among  the  inhabitants  of 
the  earth,  and  shall  continue  to  be 
poured  out,  from  time  to  time,  if 
they  repent  not,  until  the  earth 
is  empty,  and  the  inhabitants  there- 
of are  consumed  away  and  utterly 
destroyed  by  the  brightness  of  my 
coming." 

That  is  the  word  of  the  Lord. 
^Tow  I  do  not  understand  that  the 
plague  of  influenza  shall  contin- 
ue until  the  Lord  comes,  but  I  do 
think  that  one  form  or  another  of 
chastisement  shall  follow,  with  its 
"seasons  for  repentance,  for  the 
preaching  of  the  gospel,  and  cry- 
ing- to  the  nations  of  the  earth: 
/'Will  .you  now  listen  unto  the 
Lord,"  and.  if  they  shall  not  listen, 
then  another  affliction  will  come, 
until  men  shall  either  repent,  or 
they  shall  perish.     For  these  are 


ELDER  MELVIN  !.  BALLARD 


89 


the  last  days,  the  days  preceding 
the  coming  of  the  Redeemer,  and 
he  will  not  come  when  the  wicked 
stand  and  flourish.  Reading  again 
from   the   ninety-seventh   section : 

\"For  the  indignation  of  the  Lord  is 
kindled  against  their  abominations 
and  all  their  wicked  works." 

Now  here  is  the  answer  for  our- 
selves :  '■'    :  H 

"Nevertheless,  Zion  shall  escape,  if. 
she  observe  to  do  all  things  whatso- 
ever I  have  commanded  her. 

"But  if  she  observe  not  to  do  what- 
soever I  have  commanded  her,  I  will 
visit  her  according  to  all  her  works, 
with  sore  affliction,  with  pestilence, 
with  plague,  with  sword,  with  ven- 
geance, with  devouring  fire." 

Mv  brethren  and  sisters,  why 
should  we  hope  to  escape,  who 
have  been  baptized  into  this  Church, 
yet  ignore  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord?  For  there  are  among 
us  those  who  do  not  keep  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  some  of  us  do  not  pay 
our  tithing ;  we  do  not  sanctify  our- 
selves by  adding  unto  our  faith, 
virtue ;  to  virtue,  knowledge,  to 
knowledge,  temperance,  and  pa- 
tience, and  godliness,  and  brotherly 
kindness.  Why  should  we  claim 
exemption — we  who  know  the 
truth,  we  who  have  been  warned, 
we  who  will  testify  that  we  believe 
God  has  spoken — why  should  we 
escape  if  we  do  not  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord?  And  T 
say  this  with  a  feeling  in  my  heart 
of  deep  appreciation  that  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  are,  notwithstanding 
all  this,  the  best  people  in  the  world  ; 
and  I  have  received  a  witness  to 
my  soul  that  the  innocent  children 
and  faithful  Latter-day  Saints  were 
not  taken  because  they  were  wicked, 
nor  because  the  families  that  were 
touched  needed  to  be  chastised 
more  than  others,  but  that  the  Lord 
was  speaking  through  those  who 


have  been  taken — these  one  thous- 
and who  have  gone  from  us.  .  The 
Lord  is  speaking  through  them  to 
the  whole  Church,  crying  repem- 
ance  unto  us,  calling  us  to  set  our 
houses  in  order,  to  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord. 

When  I  read  that  wonderful 
statement  in  the  concluding  verse 
of  the  revelation  known  as  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  wherein  the 
Lord  promised  that  those  who 
would  seek  to  keep  these  command- 
ments, that  he  would  make  them 
immune,  that  the  destroyer  should 
not  destroy  them  unnecessarily,  be- 
fore their  day  and  time.  As  I  read 
•the  statement  that  those  who  were 
guilty  of  the  excessive  use  of  to- 
bacco had  fallen  easy  victims  to  the 
influenza,  I  thought  that  the  Lord, 
in  giving  us  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
was  trying  to  make  the  Latter-day 
Saints1  immune,  so  that  they  might 
stand  in  the  midst  of  the  plagues 
and  judgments  that  are  to  come. 
We  will  not  escape  them ;  we  will 
be  touched  by  them ;  but  I  want  to 
testify  to  you  that  when  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  turn  to  the  Lord  and 
keep  his  commandments,  and  serve 
him  in  all  things  that  have  been  re- 
quired, these  judgments  shall  not 
harm  us ;  and  our  loved  ones  shall 
not  go  from  us  until  the  day  ap- 
pointed for  them  to  go  has  come. 
But  if  we  shall  be  touched,  it  is  be- 
cause the  Lord  is  preparing  us  to 
stand  in  our  places  to  be  a  light 
among  the  nations  of  the  earth,  the 
salt,  the  very  savor  of  the  world ; 
and  we  cannot  be  that  except  we 
keep  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord. 

So  in  my  own  mind  and  soul,  I 
have  resolved  that  I  am  going  to 
serve  God  better  than  I  have  ever 
done ;  that  I  am  going  to  learn  this 
lesson,  that  I  do  not  want  any  more 


» 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


whippings ;  that  I  want  to  be  will- 
ing and  amenable  today,  so  that  the 
judgments  of  tomorrow  need  not 
fall  upon  me.  I  know  that  many  of 
our  brethren  and  sisters  who  have 
perished  were  worthy  to  go ;  and 
those  who  need  repentance  have 
stayed,  that  they  may  repent.  I 
pray  in  my  soul  that  the  Lord  will 
comfort  and  bless  those  who  have 
been  bereaved ;  for  he  knew  whom 
he  could  touch.  Many  who  h.'.ve 
suffered  the  loss  of  their  loved  ones- 
have  been  able  to  endure  it,  because 
they  had  faith ;  and  had  it  touched 
other  families,  it  might  have 
wrecked  them.  The  Lord  knew 
who  could  stand  this  affliction,  and 
so  he  has  administered  it,  I  be- 
lieve, for  the  wise  purpose  of  call- 
ing us  unto  him,  calling  us  back  to 
the  standards  of  our  fathers. 

I  glory  in  the  achievements  of 
the  past.  I  glory  in  the  material 
growth  and  .development  of  this 
Church.  It  shall  not  suffer  under 
the  administration  of  the  man 
whom  the  Lord  has  called  now  to 
lead  and  direct  the  affairs  of  this 
Church ;  for  he  is  competent  fully 
to  take  care  of  those  matters.  But 
I  do  feel,  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
there  is  dansrer  that  in  the  material 
growth  of  this  Church  we  may  lose 
sight  of  the  other  features  that  are 
more  essential.  I  feel  there  is 
danger,  in  the  midst  of  this  material 
prosperity,  that  we  may  be  dis- 
posed to  build  ourselves  up  finan- 
cially rather  than  to  devote  our- 
selves to  the  accomplishment  of 
the  great  work  that  the  Lord  laid 
upon  the  shoulders  of  our  fathers, 
namely,  to  convert  the  world  and 
to  save  ourselves.  The  financial 
prosperity  that  has  come  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints  is  but  a  stepping- 
stone,  if  we  only  consider  it  prop- 
erly, to  prepare    us  to  fulfil  the 


great  obligations  that  rest  upon  us, 
and  not  to  excuse  ourselves  from 
carrying  the  message  of  the  gospel 
to  a  world  whom  the  Lord  is  trash- 
ing, and  whom  he  will  thrash.  Let 
us  prepare  our  hearts  to  go  when 
the  time  shall  come,  and  make  the 
kind  of  sacrifice  our  fathers  have 
made,  and  do  our  part  in  spreading 
the  truth  among  the  nations  of  the 
earth.    This  is  my  earnest  desire. 

I  bear  witness  that  this  is  the 
Lord's  work ;  that  he  is  at  the  helm. 
The  light  is  in  the  ship,  and  it  will 
go  steadily  forward.  I  know,  as  I 
know  that  I  live,  that  this  is  the 
work  of  our  Father.  I  know  that 
Jesus  Christ  lives,  that  he  is  the 
Redeemer  and  Savior  of  the  world. 
I  know  it  as  well  as  I  know  that  I 
look  upon  your  faces  today.  When 
the  day  shall  come  that,  like 
Thomas  of  old,  I  may  thrust  my 
hand  into  his  side  or  feel  the  prints 
of  the  nails  in  his  hands  and  feet; 
or  like  Mary,  I  may  bathe  his  feet 
with  my  tears,  I  shall  not  know  it 
any  better  than  I  know  it  today ; 
for  I  know  that  he  lives,  that  he  is 
the  redeemer  of  the  world  and  that 
he  did  speak  to  the'  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  I  know  that  this  is  the 
Lord's  work;  that  he  is  in  it,  and 
it  will  rise  triumphant  and  go  for- 
ward. 

My  heart  rejoices  in  the  privil- 
ege of  being  identified  with  this 
work.  T  feel  thankful  that  I  have 
the  confidence  and  the  love  of  my 
brethren,  and  oh,  my  heart  rejoices 
that  I  do  have  their  love  and  confi- 
dence. I  felt  very  humble  in  my 
soul  when  President  Grant  in- 
formed me,  as  I  stated  yesterday, 
that  the  Lord  had  made  it  known 
to  him  that  I  should  continue  my 
labors  in  the  ministry,  and  that  I 
should  be  one  of  the  special  witnes- 
ses of  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  I  said: 


* 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


91 


"President  Grant,  if  I  thought  I 
could  be  worthy  to  be  pne  of  the 
special  witnesses  of  the  Lord,  Jesus, 
it  would  be  the  happiest  moment  of 
my  life ;  for  I  esteem  that  the  high- 
est honor  that  could  come  to  man.'' 
But  my  ideal  of  the  kind  of  men 
'they  ought  to  be  was  so  great,  and 
I  found  myself  not  measuring  up 
to  that  standard,  which  I  have  in 
my  own  mind.  Yet,  with  the  help 
of  the  Lord  and  the  patience  of 
my  brethren,  I  will  do  as  I  have 
said :  I  will  try  to  be  what  you  want 
me  to  be — a  servant  of  the  people ; 
and  with  all  the  power  and  strength 
of  my  mind  and  soul  I  shall  try 
to  be  faithful  to  this  trust  and  to 
be  a  worthy  representative  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  in  the  ■  earth.  I  feel 
small ;  I  feel  little ;  I  feel  insignifi- 
cant ;  but  knowing,  as  I  have  known 
through  the  thirteen  years  that 
I  have  spent  in  the  missionary  field, 
that  the  Lord  will  help  the  weak 
and  make  them  strong,  I  depend 
upon  him  and  your  love,  your  fel- 
lowship and  your  support.  I  know 
this  work  will  go  forward.  I  know 
that  the  spirit  of  the  prophet  now 
rests  upon  the  president  of  this 
Church ;  that  is  my  witness  and 
testimony.  The  dogs  may  bark, 
but  the  grand,  majestic  Caravan, 
the  Church  of  the  living  God,  will 
move  on  triumphantly.  God  bless 
it  forever  and  ever,  and  help  us  to 
keep  loyal  and  true  to  it  and  put 
ourselves  in  the  way  so  that  we  may 
receive  the  divine  favor  of  our 
Fatherland  escape  the  afflictions  of 
the  world.  If  we  shall  be  faith- 
ful and  true,  I  know  that  every 
promise  and  blessing  that  has  been 
pronounced  upon  our  heads  will  be 
realized  and  verified,  which  may 
God  grant  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


The  choir  '  and  congregation 
sang:  "For  the  strength  of  the 
hills,"  and  the  benediction  was  of- 
fered by  Patriarch  Frederick  A. 
Mitchell. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

The  conference  was  called  to 
ord€r  at  2  o'clock  by  President 
Heber  J.  Grant  who  presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation 
sang  the  hymn :  "Do  what  is 
right." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder 
Lemuel  H.  Redd,  Jr.,  president  oi 
the  San  Juan  stake. 

A  quartette  composed  of 
Brothers  Neilsen,  Christensen, 
Plumeyer,  and  Holdaway  sang : 
"Lead,  kindly  light." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING 
SMITH 

Changes  in  life  must  come — Con- 
vinced of  the  divinity  of  the.  mis- 
sion of  Joseph  Smith — The  Solemn 
Assembly  an  inspiring  sight — Order 
of  the  Church  in  choosing  a  Presi- 
dent— Testimony. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have 
feelings  of  mingled  sadness  and 
joy  in  standing  before  you  this 
afternoon.  This  conference,  and 
the  remarks  that  have  been  made  by 
the  various  speakers,  have  brought 
to  my  memory  many  scenes  of  the 
past  and  I  feel  rather  tender  in  my 
spirit.  I  realize  perfectly  that  time 
is  passing,  that  man's  probation 
here,  or,  his  days  upon  the  earth, 
are  limited,  and  when  his  work  is 
finished,  in  the  natural  course  of 
■things  it  is  to  be  expected  that  he 
will  be  taken  home.  J  accept  the 
changes  that  come,  rejoicing  in  the 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


fact  that  the  gospel  which  we  have 
received  is  true.  Changes  of  neces- 
sity must  come,  conditions  vary, 
from  day  to  day,  and  new  scenes 
are  bound  to  present  themselves 
as  time  rolls  on. 

All  my  life,  from  my  earliest  rec- 
ollection, I  have  accepted  the  mis- 
sion of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
believed-  in  him,  and  accepted  him 
as  the  servant  of  the  Lord  who 
was  called  and  appointed  to  usher 
in  this  dispensation,  known  as  the 
Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of 
Times.  Clothed  with  power  from 
■on  high,  he  was  sent  forth  to  de- 
clare the  principles  of  the  everlast- 
ing gospel  to  a  perverse -world  that 
they  might,  through  repentance, 
come  unto  God  and  receive  salva- 
tion in  his  kingdom.  This  great 
truth  has,  I  say,  always,  from  my 
earliest  recollection,  found  an  abid- 
ing place  in  my  heart,  and  I  have 
accepted  every  change  that  has 
come  unto  the  Church  until  this 
time ;  and  now  I  find  myself  still 
in  harmony  with  the  work,  with 
the  sentiments  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  with  my  brethren  who  pre- 
side, because  I  am  convinced  in  my 
heart  that  this  is  the  work  of  God. 

It  was  an  inspiring  sight  that  we 
beheld  yesterday  forenoon  in  this 
building  when  the  brethren  hold- 
ing the  priesthood  in  the  various 
orders  thereof  were  called  upon  to 
stand  and  express  themselves  by 
vote,  either  in  favor  of  or  against 
the  presiding  officers.  I  voted 
with  full  purpose  of  heart  and  with 
the  determination,  with  the  rest  of 
you,  to  uphold  and  sustain  the  con- 
stituted authorities,  to  stand  by 
them,  because  I  realize  that  they 
hold  the  power  and  the  priesthood 
which  has  descended  from  the  day 
of    the    Prophet    Joseph  Smith, 


which  the  Lord  has  said  will  con- 
tinue upon  the  face  of  the  earth 
until  the  end  of  time,  and  even  then 
it  shall  not  be  taken  away,  for  this 
priesthood  is  eternal. 

No  man  can  preside  in  this 
Church  in  any  capacity,  without  the 
consent  of  the  people.  The  Lord 
has  placed  upon  us  the  responsibil- 
ity of  sustaining  by  vote  those  who 
are  called,  to  various  positions  of 
responsibility.  No  man,  should  the 
people  decide  to  the  contrary, 
could  preside  over  any  body  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  in  this  Church,  and 
yet  it  is  not  the  right  of  the  peo- 
ple to  nominate,  to  choose,  for 
that  is  the  right  of  the  priesthood. 
The  priesthood  selects,  under  the 
inspiration  of  our  Father  in  heaven, 
and  then  it  is  the  duty  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  as  they  are  as- 
sembled in  conference,  or  other 
capacity,  by  the  uplifted  hand,  to 
sustain  or  to  reject ;  and  I  take  it 
that  no  man  has  the  right  to  raise 
his  hand  in  opposition,  or  with  con- 
trary vote,  unless  he  has  a  reason 
for  doing  so  that  would  be  valid 
if  presented  before  those  who  stand 
at  the  head.  In  other  words,  I  have 
no  right  to  raise  my  hand  in  op- 
position to  a  man  who  is  appointed 
to  any  position  in  this  Church, 
simply  because  I  may  not  like  him, 
or  because  of  some  personal  disa- 
greement or  feeling  I  may  have, 
but  only  on  the  grounds  that  he  is 
guilty  of  wrong  doing,  of  trans- 
gression of  the  laws  of  the  Church 
which  would  disqualify  him  for  the 
position  which  he  is  called  to  hold. 
That  is  my  understanding  of  it. 

I  am  glad  to  say  that  in  raising 
my  hand  to  sustain  the  authorities 
of  the  Church  I  can  do  that  con- 
sistently and  with  pleasure,  because 
I   know   that   the  men   who   are  > 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


93 


called  to  preside  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  are  qualified,  and  are  chosen 
by  divine  revelation.  There  was  a 
time  in  the  history  of  the  Church 
when  doubts  arose  in  the  minds  of 
many  of  the  people  at  the  time  of 
the  disorganization  of  the  presi- 
dency of  the  Church.  Such  a  thing 
as  the  disorganization  of  the  First 
Presidency  had  never  occurred  be- 
fore, and  many  of  the  people  were 
in  doubt  as  to  just  what  action 
should  be  taken.  They  wondered 
what  the  result  would  be.  They 
were  not  acquainted,  as  perhaps 
they  should  have  been,  and  as  we 
are  today,  with  the  revelations 
which  the  Lord  had  given  in  regard 
to  matters  of  that  kind.  There- 
fore, doubts  arose  in  their  minds. 
Men  assumed  authority  and  stood 
forth  before  the  people  demanding 
their  attention  and  claiming  the 
right  of  presidency.  The  matter, 
however,  was  properly  .settled  by 
the  vote  of  the  people,  and  Presi- 
dent Brigham  Young,  whose  right 
it  was,  was  sustained  by  the  vote 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  stand 
at  the  head  of  the  Church  upon  the 
earth.  And  yet  it  became  necessary 
on  that  occasion,  while  President 
Young  was  speaking  to  the  peo- 
ple, before  the  vote  was  taken,  for 
the  Lord  to  make  it  known  by  a 
manifestation  that  he  was  indeed 
the  successor  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
and  that  the  mantle  of  his  prede- 
cessor had  fallen  upon  his  shoul- 
ders. Such  a  thing  as  that  is  not 
required  today  because  now  we 
have  learned  the  order  of  the 
Church ;  we  know  what  the  revela- 
tions declare.  We  know  just  what 
will  follow  in  case  of  the  disor- 
ganization of  any  quorum  of  the 
priesthood,  and  the  people  are  not 
in  doubt.    There  is  no  reason  now 


for  u,s  to  be  at  cross  purposes,  to 
have  a  misunderstanding,  to  let 
doubts  arise  in  our  minds  in  re- 
igard  to  these  matters,  because 
everything  is  clear  and  everything 
will  be  followed  in  the  order 
which  the  Lord  has  appointed. 
Now  we  move  smoothly  in  the 
path  of  duty  and  accept  the 
word  of  the  Lord  as  it  has  been 
made  known  and  as  the  under- 
standing has  been  impressed  upon 
our  minds,  due  very  largely  to  the 
experience  of  the  past. 

I  am  grateful  and  thankful  for 
a  testimony  of  the  truth,  notwith- 
standing the  fact  that  the  presence 
of  this  vast  congregation  in  con- 
ference assembled  and  the  remarks 
that  have  been  made,  bring  to  me 
'thoughts  and  reflections  that  touch 
iny  heart,  I  have  feelings  of  pleas- 
■ure  and  of  joy  beyond  expression 
in  the  knowledge  that  I  have  that 
the  Lord  has  established  this  work 
and  that  it  will  endure  upon  the 
face  of  the  earth  and  shall  not  be 
destroyed,  it  shall  not  be  given  to 
another  people.  It  is  here  perma- 
nently and  shall  remain  until  the 
Lord  has  finished  his  work  among 
the  children  of  men ;  and  then  it 
will  continue,  for  it  is  everlasting 
and  shall  never  be  destroyed.  I 
know  just  as  well  as.it  is  possible 
for  me,  I  believe,  to  know  in  this 
life,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
prophet  of  God.  There  is  no  doubt 
in  my  mind/ in  the  least  that  Brig- 
ham  Young  was  called  and  ap- 
pointed to  be  his  successor  and  that 
he  presided  over  this  people  by  the 
'will  of  God  and  was  filled  with  the 
spirit  of  inspiration  and  prophecy. 
•So  likewise  it  was  with  President 
John  Taylor,  President  Wilford 
Woodruff,  President  Lorenzo 
Snow,  and  all  others  who  have  pre- 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


sided,  and  so  it  must  be  unto  the 
end.  The  Lord  will  not  permit  any 
man  to  reach  he  presidency  in  this 
Church  who  is  not  prepared,  who  is 
not  worthy,  and  whom  he  does  not 
want.  We  may  be  assured  of  that. 
'And,  therefore,  I  find  myself,  I  say, 
in  absolute  harmony  with  you  in  the 
order  of  the  priesthood,  in  the  doc- 
trines of  the  Church,  the  revela- 
tions as  they  have  been  given  unto 
us  from  the  beginning,  and  I  trust 
and  pray  that  always  I  may  have 
that  spirit  and  be  found  faithfully 
laboring  in  the  discharge  of  my 
duty  as  an  officer  and  member  in 
the  Church  in  the  salvation  of 
souls,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER    GERMAN   E.  ELLS- 
WORTH 

(Retiring  President  of  the  Northern 
States  Mission.) 

I  am  deeply  grateful,  my  breth- 
'  ren  and  sisters,  for  the  privilege  of 
bearing  my  testimony  to  you  con- 
cerning the  work  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  It  is  my  testimony  that  this 
work  has  been  established  by  our 
Father  in  heaven,  that  he  has  se- 
lected men  on  the  earth  to  fulfil  cer- 
tain positions,  and  they  have  been 
acknowledged  of  him  inasmuch  as 
they  have  done  their  duty.  I  have 
now  had  the  pleasure  of  filling  two 
missions.  I  remember  well  when 
called  to  go  upon  my  first  mission, 
how  I  looked  forward  with  great 
joy  to  my  labors  in  that  field. 

I  remember  from  that  field  of 
labor  I  was  shown  in  vision  that  I 
would  not  be  home  very  long  until 
called  upon  another  mission,  and 
despite,  perhaps,  my  own  efforts  to- 
ward another  line,  that  call  came, 
and  when  one  of  the  prophets  of  the 
Lord  said  to  me  that  I  was  wanted 


as  a  missionary  in  the  Northern 
-States  mission,  I  told  him  I  would 
go,  and  I  can  feel  now  the  joy  and 
happiness  that  filled  my  heart.  Be- 
fore going  upon  that  mission,  in 
fast  meeting,  one  of  the  good  mem- 
bers of  the  ward  manifested  in 
tongues:  "My  servant  German  E. 
Ellsworth  has  been  called  by  my 
authority,  and  acknowledged  of  me, 
as  a  missionary  to  the  Northern 
States."  That  much  was  given  to 
the  congregation  in  the  interpreta- 
tion, but  there  was  a  part  of  that 
manifestation  that  was  never  given 
to  the  congregation,  that  has  always 
been  a  source  of  joy  and  happiness 
to  me  during  the  past  sixteen  years. 
It  has  been  a  great  help  to  me  in 
talking  to  young  missionaries,  who 
sometimes  had  the  idea  that  they 
had  been  called  just  by  some  bishop, 
to  go  on  a  mission.  I  have  without 
hesitation  told  them  that  every  sin- 
gle one  of  us  has  been  called  by 
men,  bishops,  stake  presidents, 
apostles  and  others  in  the  Church, 
but  our  call  had  come  finally  from 
the  president  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ,  who  was  God's  mouthpiece 
in  the  earth,  and  that  all  who  are 
called  would  be  acknowledged  by 
the  Lord  wherever  they  went,  if 
they  would  go  and  do  their  duty. 

As  I  stand  before  you  now  there 
comes  to  my  mind  a  dream  of  my 
boyhood,  wherein  I  might  have  de- 
sired many  things  and  planned 
many  things,  but  I  can  remember 
that  my  prayers  always  ended : 
"Father,  above  all  thy  blessings, 
grant  me  the  privilege  of  being  a 
teacher  of  righteousness  and  a 
preacher  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ."  That  desire  and  prayer 
has  largely  been  fulfilled,  having 
had  already  eighteen  years  of  pleas- 
ure and  happiness  in  preaching  and 
teaching  the    gospel    in  company 


ELDER  GERMAN 

with  hundreds  of  the  best  men  and 
women  of  the  earth.    I  remember 
one  time  standing  in  the  dusty  road 
of  California    alone,    hungry  and 
weary,  having  almost  gone  to  the 
limit  of  my  strength,  when  my  eyes 
opened,  and  standing  by  my  side 
was  a  messenger  of  our  Father, 
and  if  the  influence  of  his  presence 
had  not  been  strength  enough  for 
me  to    lean    upon — I   was  close 
enough  to  have  put  my  hand  upon 
his  shoulder.    I  have  known  other 
missionaries  in  the  field  who  have 
been  weary  and   discouraged  who 
have  likewise  had  their  eyes  opened 
to  see  the  fulfilment  of  our  Fath- 
er's promise  that  he  will  send  his 
messengers  before  our  face  and 
lead  us  to  the  doors  of  those  who 
are  prepared  to  receive  us.    I  bear 
witness,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  our  Father  has  fulfilled  this 
promise  in  my  life  and  in  the  lives 
of  the  missionaries  who  have  la- 
bored with  me.    There  have  been 
one  or  two  special  lines  of  mission- 
ary work  that  have  been  sources 
of  great  joy  and  happiness  to  me  in 
my  labors. 

Shortly  after  going  to  the  North- 
ern States  Mission  I  received  an 
impression  of  the  Lord  concerning 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  of  which  I 
would  like  to  bear  testimony  before 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  It  came  to 
me  as  strong  as  if  someone  of  my 
fellow  missionaries  had  told  it  to 
me,  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  had 
been  given  of  the  Lord  as  a  wit- 
ness to  this  generation  and  that  if 
we  would  remember  it,  that  we 
would  come  out  from  under  the 
condemnation  that,  as  we  are  told, 
rested  upon  Zion;  and  then  I  re- 
called reading  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  in  the  84th  section,  be- 
ginning with  the  54th  verse,  where- 


E.  ELLSWORTH  95 

in  the  Church  and  some  of  the 
early    leaders     of    the  Church, 
because     of     their     unbelief  in 
the    Book    of    Mormon,    I  take 
it,     were     under  condemnation 
and  would  needs  remain  so  until 
they  repented  and  remembered  the 
new  covenant,  even  the  Book  of 
Mormon.     It  was  not  long  after 
that  until,  with  the  co-operation  of 
two  other  missions,  we  published 
10,000  Books  of  Mormon  in  Chi- 
cago, followed  the  next  year  by 
12,000,  and  the  following  year  by 
27,000.   The  interest  had  so  grown 
that  bids  were  secured  from  New 
York,  Chicago,  Philadelphia,  Bos- 
ton, London  and  Japan  for  a  100,- 
000  edition,  with  Chicago  the  low- 
est bidder.     This  perhaps  is  the 
largest  number  of  that  sacred, rec- 
ord to  be  printed  at  one  time.  In 
all,  250,000  Books  of  Mormon  were 
printed  in  Chicago  before  it  was 
taken  over  by  Zion's  Printing  & 
Publishing  Co.  We  have  distributed 
130,000  Books  of  Mormon  in  the 
Northern  States  mission,  90,000  of 
which  have  been  sold,  and  it  is  my 
testimony    that    every    man  and 
woman  who  has  taken  to  heart  the 
distribution  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, taken  to  heart  the  teaching 
of  .  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  the 
pointing  out  of  the  gems  in  that 
record  to  the  people  of  the  earth, 
have    made    a    more  wonderful 
growth  than  any  other  missionaries 
in  the  field.    I  can  look  back  now 
over  the  mission  and  call  to  mind 
the  young  men  who  have  taken  hold 
of  it  with  a  vim  and  gone  before 
the  people,  bearing  witness  of  it, 
that  the  Lord  was  with  and  blessed 
them  above  all  other  missionaries. 

I  remember  while  standing  on 
the  Hill  Cumorah,  of  hearing  these 
words,  "Push  the  distribution  of 
the  record  that  was  taken  from  this 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


hill,  for  it  will  help  bring  the  world 
to  Christ;"  and  as  the  Bible  has 
"Christianized,"  as  we  term  it  to- 
day, many  nations,  so  also  will  the 
Book  of  Mormon  bring  the  world 
another  long  step  towards  member- 
ship in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  went  im- 
mediately to  Palmyra  and  secured 
postcard  pictures  of  the  hill  and 
sent  one  to  each  of  my  missionaries, 
writing  on  each  one  the  words  sug- 
gested to  my  mind  and  the  mission- 
aries caught  the  real  spirit  of  it  and 
made  that  year  one  of  the  largest  in 
Book  of  Mormon  distribution  we 
made  in  the  Northern  States. 

One  other  feature  of  missionary 
work  in  the  Northern  States  from 
which  we  have  drawn  a  great  deal 
of  joy  and  satisfaction  has  been  the 
genealogical  work  among  the 
Saints.  Seventy  per  cent  of  the 
families  in  the  mission  have  been 
induced  to  make  and  keep  a  family 
record,  and  many  families  have 
contributed  in  the  last  four  years, 
through  the  Relief  Society,  under 
the  direction  of  Sister  Ellsworth, 
about  ten  thousand  names  for  tem- 
ple ordinances.  This  work  has 
brought  a  wonderful  spirit  of  unity 
and  good  feeling  one  toward  an- 
other, and  has  drawn  the  hearts  of 
the  Saints  nearer  towards  the  gos- 
pel than  anything  that  has  been 
done. 

I  am  happy  to  have  had  the 
privilege  of  associating,  so  closely, 
with  the  men  whom  God  has  hon- 
ored in  the  earth  to  be  the  leaders 
of  his  people.  I  can  feel  now  the 
hand  of  President  Smith  upon  my 
back  and  hear  his  words  when  I 
'was  going  away  upon  this  mission. 
When  I  told  him  that  I  had  desired 
from  a  boy  to  become  a  physician 
he  said :   "Never  mind,  my  boy,  you 


go  on  this  mission,  and  we  will 
make  you  a  minister  of  righteous 
ness  and  a  savior  of  the  souls  of 
men,  instead  of  the  body."  And  his 
"The  Lord  bless  you,  my  boy," 
which  was  repeated  last  October, 
has  been  worth  more  to  me  than 
the  treasures  of  the  earth. 

I  now  bear  witness  to  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  President 
Heber  J.  Grant  is  the  prophet  of 
the  Lord ;  for  my  Father  in  heaven 
bore  witness  to  that  fact  in  my  soul ; 
so  that  my  heart  could  easily  fol- 
low my  hand  from  President  Smith 
to  President  Grant,  as  the  man  to 
stand  at  the  head  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  all  those  who  will  fol- 
low the  counsel  of  those  who  are 
called  now  to  preside  over  them 
shall  be  acknowledged  of  the  Lord 
in  their  labor. 

It  has  been  a  source  of  happiness 
beyond  my  language  to  describe 
to  labor  with  1500  young  rnen  and 
young  women  who  have  been  ap- 
pointed to  labor  in  that  mission. 
Out  of  that  number  only  three 
have  stumbled  in  the  path,  and  even 
they  have  been  reclaimed  to  lives 
of  honor  and  integrity  in'  the 
Church.  We  have  had  sorrow  in 
the  death  and  burial  of  five :  two  in 
the  last  year,  from  this  dreadful 
malady,  influenza,  the  other  three 
over  the  remainder  of  our  time 
there. 

I  rejoice  in  my  testimony  of  the 
gospel.  I  rejoice  in  the  power  and 
influence  of  my  Father,  that  I  have 
felt  in  times  of  need.  I  rejoice  for 
the  measure  of  success  that  has  at- 
tended us  in  our  labors,  and  for  the 
privilege  of  laboring  so  closely  in 
connection  with  the  brethren  who 
have  been  honored  of  God  to  pre- 
side over  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 


ELDER  GERMAN  E.  ELLSWORTH 


97 


of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  know  that 
God  lives,  I  know  that  Jesus  Christ 
is  the  Son  of  God,  beyond  all  shad- 
ow of  doubt.  I  have  known  that 
from  my  boyhood,  and  there  ?s  no 
witness  in  my  soul  so  great  as  that 
Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  and  that 
this  is  his  work.  My  testimony  is 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of 
God,  called  by  our  Father  to  be  the 
instrument  in  his  hands  in  establish- 
ing the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  It  is  my  testi- 
mony to  you  that  the  sweetest  thing 
in  all  the  world  is  to  be  a  witness  of 
the  truth  or  an  instrument  in  the 
hands  of  God  in'  bringing  men  and 
women  to  the  light  that  has  been  re- 
stored to  the  earth  for  the  salvation 
of  the  souls  of  men.  God  bless 
Zion.  Help  us,  in  this  hour  of  dark- 
ness and  distress  to  arise  and  mag- 
nify our  callings,  and  be  a  light  set 
upon  a  hill  that  all  the  world  will 
rejoice  in  this  dark  hour.  God  bless 
those  who  preside  over  the  Church. 
Give  them  power  and  influence,  and 
may  they  feel  our  sustaining  influ- 
ence and  our  uplifted  hands  sup- 
porting them,  until  the  glory  of  God 
rests  upon  Zion,  I  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen.  . 

ELDER  WINSLOW  F.  SMITH 

(President   of   the   Northern  States 
Mission.) 

In  listening  to  the  testimonies 
that  have  been  borne  during  this 
conference,  I  feel  that  I  have  been 
beneHted  and  I  feel  more  than 
ever  before  the  responsibility  of  the 
calling  that  has. come  to  me.  I  have 
never  doubted  the-divinity  of  "Mor- 
monism,"  so-called.  I  have  never 
doubted  the  standing  of  the  men 
called  to  preside.  I  have  never 
hesitated  to  give  unto  them  the 


greatest  support  that  I  have  had, 
and  I  feel,  in  standing  here  today, 
to  bear  my  testimony  to  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters  and  friends, 
that  1  do  so  with  the  support  of 
these  men  that  I  have  supported. 

Today  in  coming  to  this  meeting 
I  met  a  friend  on  the  car  who  said : 
"How  do  you  like  to  tear  up  home 
and  go  away?"  I  said:  "I  don't 
like  it  from  the  idea  of  tearing  up 
home,  but  I  do  like  it  when  it  is 
in  the  line  of  my  duty."  I  have 
always  felt,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  the  mission  work  of  our 
Church  is  a  source  of  its  great 
strength.  I  have  felt,  ever  since 
my  experience  in  the  mission  field, 
fourteen  years  ago,  that  I  was  a 
better  man  for  having  gone  and  for 
having  labored,  and  have  said,  time 
and  time  again,  if  no  soul  under 
heaven  was  benefited  by  my  mis- 
sionary experience,  I,  myself,  was 
benefited,  for  I  had  joy,  comfort 
and  happiness  and  I  had  brought 
unto  me  an  appreciation  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  that  could  have  come 
to  me  in  no  other  manner. 

I  tell  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  ours  is  essentially  a  mis- 
sionary Church;  that  unto  us,  a 
little  handful  of  people,  compared 
with  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth, 
has  been  given  the  responsibility 
and  the  calling  of  preaching  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  unto  the 
whole  world;  and  I  tell  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  and  I  say  it  in 
earnestness  and  in  candor,  that  the 
members  here  at  home  who  are  not 
doing  their  duty,  who  are  not  striv- 
ing to  teach  by  precept,  by  example, 
to  those  with  whom  they  come  in 
contact,  are  not  measuring  up  to 
the  full  measure  of  their  calling, 
and  they  are  not  getting  the  joy  out 
of  life  that  they  are  entitled  to. 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


My  work  in  life,  since  coming 
home  from  the  mission  field,  has 
taken  "me  into  many  of  the  stakes 
of  Zion,  and  I  have  always  made  it 
a  rule  to  attend  service  wherever 
I  have  been,  and  have  found  in  the 
services  where  I  have  gone  that  the 
Spirit,  the  same  that  I  knew  in  the 
mission  field,  was  to  be  found.  I 
have  felt  when  called  upon  to  speak 
to  the  Saints  that  I  have  spoken 
with  the  same  freedom  and  the 
same  help  that  I  enjoyed  while  in 
the  mission  field,  and  I  say  this 
now,  and  in  all  candor,  that  I  have 
enjoyed'  it.  I  have  met  many  peo- 
ple not  of  our  faith  and  have  re- 
joiced that  I  had  the  knowledge  to 
talk  to  them  fairly  intelligently  on 
the  principles  which  we  believe  in. 

I  say,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
there  are  too  many  of  us  inclined  to 
stand  back.  I  love  to  say  with 
Paul:  "I  am  not  ashamed  of  the 
gospel  of  Christ ;  for  it  is  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation  to  everyone 
that  believeth."  I  feel  this  in  my 
very  being,  I  rejoice  in  it,  and  I 
take  pleasure  in  every  opportunity, 
regardless  of  who  the  person  may 
be,  of  talking  on  the  principles  of 
the  gospel,  as  I  believe  them.  It 
brings  me  joy,  and  I  see  it  gives 
them  light,  it  opens  their  eyes,  and 
I  know  of  occasions  where  people 
have  been  turned  toward  us  and 
our  people  through  my  weak  effort. 
I  don't  mean  by  this,  brethren  and 
sisters,that  every  time  we  meet  with 
a  person  accidentally  we  must  im- 
mediately burden  him  with  the 
principles  of  the  gospel,  but  I  do 
mean  that  every  time  the  opportun- 
ity presents  itself  by  some  person 
putting  "that  little  question  that 
comes,"  that  we  should  be  ready, 
and  not  only  ready,  but  willing  to 
let  that  person  know  what  "Mor- 


monism"  is  and  where  we  stand  in 
regard  to  the  Church. 

If  we  will  cultivate  faith,  if  we 
will  humiliate  ourselves,  if  we  will 
strive  to  do  our  duty,  if  we  will 
study  and  prepare  our  minds,  when 
that  opportunity  does  come  we  will 
be  ready,  and  our  readiness  and  our 
'doing   will   surprise  us  and,   as  I 
'have    said    before,    give    us  far 
greater  joy  than   we  have  ever 
dreamed  of.    Only  a  month  or  two 
ago  I  stayed  in  a  hotel  in  a  neigh- 
boring state  until  one  o'clock  in  the 
morning  talking  our  religion  with 
a  man  who  had  neyer  heard  it,  and 
I  tell  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  it 
was  a  pleasure,  it  was  a  joy,  when 
that  man  said  to  me:      "I  am 
mighty  glad  that  the  things  that  I 
had  heard  of  your  Church  are  not 
true.    I  like  you,  I  like  your  way, 
and  I  am  going  down  into  your 
state  when  I  get  nearer  to  it  some- 
time and  see  what  you  have  really 
done  there."   Now,  that  is  only  one 
opportunity.    We  have  them  every 
day  or  two  and  the  opportunity  is 
here  right  in  our  own  state.  Those 
of  our  associates  whom  we  meet 
would  be  glad  and  willing  to  learn 
if  we  would  put  the  question  up  to 
them  in  such  a  manner  that  they 
could  not  resist  it.   As  we  are  walk- 
ing along  the  street,  one  can  say: 
"Why,  there  is  that  building,  one  of 
the  oldest  buildings  in  our  town, 
that  was  built  by  so  and  so,"  and 
immediately    the    opportunity  is 
there  for  a  little  explanation. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  the 
greatest  work  in  the  world.  There 
is  absolutely  no  sacrifice  that  we 
can  make  that  we  should  consider 
too  great,  in  working  in  the  vine- 
yard of  the  Lord.  It  is  the  great- 
est thing  on  earth,  and  right  now, 
today,  is  our  time,  the  opportunity 


ELDER  WIN  SLOW  F.  SMITH 


99 


is  ours,  and'  not  only  the  opportu- 
nity but  the  responsibility  is  ours  to 
preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
to  the  nations  of  the  earth.  I  thank 
the  Lord  that  I  have  been  called 
again  to  go  into  the  mission  field, 
and  I  pray  that  I  may  be  worthy, 
that  I  may  measure  up  to  the 
standard,  that  I  may  go  forth  in 
humility  and  with  prayerful  heart, 
that  I  may  study  and  learn,  and  that 
I  may  follow  brother  Ellsworth  in 
the  work  and  carry  it  on  as  well  as 
he  has  done  in  the  mission  field. 

I  support  the  brethren  who  have 
been  called  and  whom  we  have  sus- 
tained. I  am  back  of  them  in  their 
every  act.  I  do  not  question  them. 
I  am  confident  that  they  are  ser- 
vants of  the  living  God,  and  the 
little  help  that  I  may  give  will  be  as 
nothing,  but  it  is  there,  and  it  is 
theirs.  I  want  to  do  my  share,  and  I 
believe  in  doing  this,  that  they  will 
support -me,  that  they  will  help  me; 
and,  though  I  will  be  some  distance 
from  here,  from  the  center  stake, 
that  their  spirit  and  their  prayers 
will  be  with  me  and  help  me.  And, 
so,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  pray 
God  to  help  us'  to  appreciate  our 
calling  and  our  responsibility.  I 
pray  that  he  may  give  us  his.  Spirit, 
that  through  it  we  may  work  and 
never  tire,  that  our  efforts  shall 
never  cease  until  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  shall  be  proclaimed  to 
every  man  and  woman  and  child  on 
the  earth ;  and,  brethren  and  sisters, 
if  we  will  do  our  share  God  will 
bless  us  and  make  us  happy.  I  ask 
it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

They  say  "Mormonism"  dies  out 
in  the  third  and  fourth  generation. 
You  have  just  been  listening  to  one 
of  the  fifth  generation. 


President  Grant  referring  to  the 
old  saying  that  the  third  generation 
would  apostatize  from  the  Church 
remarked  that  the  people  had 
just  been  listening  to  the  fifth 
generation — Winslow  Smith.  His 
line  runs  as  follows :  ( 1 )  Asahel 
Smith;  (2)  John  Smith;  (3) 
George  A.  Smith;  (4)  John  Henry 
Smith;  (5)    Winslow  F.  Smith. 

The  President  then  referred  to 
the  fact  that  the  present  Presiding 
Patriarch  of  the  Church  is  the  sixth 
generation.  His  line  runs  as  fol- 
lows: (1)  Asahel  Smith;  (2) 
Joseph  Smith;  (3)  Hyrum 
Smith;  (4)  John  Smith;  (5) 
Hyrum  F.  Smith;  (6)  Hyrum  G. 
Smith. 

ELDER  GEORGE  W.  McCUNE 

(President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mis- 
sion.) 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters. 
It  is  indeed  an  honor  to  stand  be- 
fore such  a  vast  congregation  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  earnestly 
desire  your  faith  and  prayers  that 
the  few  words  I  utter  in  your  pres- 
ence may  be  acceptable  to  the  Lord. 
As  our  colored  brother  would  say: 
I  feel  "powerful  weak"  in  standing 
before  you.  I  feel  weak  in  myself, 
but  I  realize  that  my  strength  is  in 
the  Lord.  I  have  not  been  called 
to  this  position  of  my  own  seeking, 
but,  having  been  called  by  the  ser- 
vants of  the  Lord,  I  have  put  my 
trust  in  God  and  feel  determined  to 
go  forth  and  do  the  very  best  I 
can.  I  know  that  if  I  do  this  all 
will  be  well;  for,  as  expressed  by 
our  beloved  president  yesterday 
morning,  surely  the  Lord  God  will 
make  no  requirements  at  the  hands 
of  his  se'rvants  except  he  provide  a 
way  for  the  fulfilment  or  accomp- 
lishment of  that  thing ;  and  so,  with 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  help  of  the  Lord,  I  am  going 
out  to  preach  the  gospel  in  the 
Eastern  States  mission.  I  feel  that 
the  paramount  thing  for  us  as  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  today  is  the  preach- 
ing of  the  gospel  to  the  nations  of 
the  earth ;  and,  as  explained  by  el- 
der Ballard  here  this  morning,  the 
chastening  hand  of  God  has  been 
outstretched  in  the  world,  the  Lord 
has  been  speaking  to  us  through 
these  terrible  afflictions  of  war, 
famine,  pestilence  and  diseases,  and 
surely  the  Lord  will  expect  his  ser- 
vants to  be  the^e  crying  repentance 
unto  these  people  when  they  are 
humbled  in  their  spirits,  when  they 
are  ready  to  turn  to  him.  The 
Lord  will  expect  us  to  be  there  cry- 
ing repentance  unto  them,  giving 
them  the  opportunity  to  go  in  at  the 
gateway.  I  urge  upon  you  to  be 
ready  to  make  the  sacrifices  that  are 
necessary  to  take  this  great  mes- 
sage to  the  nations  of  the  earth. 

I  was  very  much  gratified  the  day 
before  I  left  New  York,  when  one 
of  the  elders  who  is  to  accompany 
elder  Smith  to  Europe  came  to  me 
and  said  that  his  brother,  who  has 
been  a  prosperous  farmer  in  Wy- 
oming, sent  word  to  me  that  he  had 
leased  his  farm  out  and  was  com- 
ing to  the  Eastern  States  mission, 
bringing  his  wife  and  daughter  and 
two  sons,  all  of  whom  would  be 
engaged  in  the  missionary  work.  I 
honestly  believe  that  this  man  is  in- 
vesting his  earnings,  his  profits,  his 
time,  and  his  talents,  in  the  most 
judicious  manner  possible.  It  may 
be  that  his  associates,  in  the  town 
where  he  resides,  will  make  more 
money  within  the  next  few  years, 
but  still  I  believe  that  this  good 
brother  has  acted  wisely  and  that 
his  investment  will  bring  him 
greater  dividends,  they  will  bring 
him   greater   returns   from  every 


standpoint,  except  that  of  mere 
money.  I  believe  he  will  so  estab- 
lish his  family  in  the  Church  and 
kingdom  of  God  that  great  bless- 
ings will  come  unto  them  for  gen- 
erations to  come,  through  this  mis- 
sion he  is  taking. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  know 
that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord 
that  we  are  engaged  in.  God  has 
revealed  this  unto  me.  The  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  has  testified  to  every 
fibre  of  my  being,  and  to  my  soul, 
that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of 
God,  and  those  who  have  succeeded 
him  in  the  presidency  of  our 
Church  are  his  rightful  successors, 
that  Heber  J.  Grant  today  is  the 
mouthpiece  of  God  on  earth.  He 
having  called  me  to  this  position,  I 
gladly  respond,  and  though  it 
seemed  like  a  great  sacrifice  at  first, 
I  feel,  as  expressed  by  Elder  Smith, 
to  rejoice  that  the  Lord  has  called 
me ;  and  now  that  the  first  step  has 
been  taken,  and  I  have  broken 
loose  from  the  influence  of  the 
world  and  have  partaken  of  the 
spirit  and  the  joy  of  missionary 
work,  I  feel  grateful  to  my  father 
in  heaven  that  I  have  been  con- 
sidered worthy  to  take  this  mission. 
I  am  very  glad  indeed  that  I  am 
going.  I  want  to  assure  my 
brethren  of  the  First  Presidency 
and  the  Twelve,  and  all  of  the  pre- 
siding brethren,  that  they  have  my.' 
hearty  support,  that  they  have  my 
love  and  my  friendship.  The  same 
is  true  of  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, and  all  mankind.  Toward  you 
I  have  nothing  in  my  heart  but  love 
and  good  fellowship.  I  pray  that 
God  will  bless  you  and  that  he  will 
bless  me  and  give  me  the  spirit  of 
my  calling;  that  when  your  sons 
and  your  daughters  shall  come  to 
the  Eastern  States  mission,  that  I 
may  have  wisdom  to  give  them  in- 


ELDER  GEORGE  W.  McCUNE 


101 


structions  that  will  make  them 
strong  in  the  fight  for  truth  and 
righteousness.  Brethren  and  sis- 
ters, support  me  to  this  end,  and  I 
know  that  this  thing  will  be  ac- 
complished. 

May  God  add  his  blessings  to  all 
that  has  been  said  today,  that  our 
hearts  may  be  made  to  rejoice,  that 
the  young  and  the  old  may  be  able 
to  stand  up  and  say,  as  one  of  old 
has  said,  "I  know  that  my  Re- 
deemer liveth,  and  that  he  shall 
stand  at  the  latter  day  upon  the 
earth :  And  though  after  my  skin 
worms  destroy  this  body,  yet  in  my 
flesh  shall  I  see. God."  I  pray  that 
this  may  be  our  happy  lot,  that  we 
may  be  firm  in  the  fight  for  truth 
and  righteousness,  and  I  pray  for 
these  things  in  Jesus'  name..  Amen. 

ELDER  WALTER  P.  MONSON 

(Retiring   President   of   the  Eastern 
States  Mission.) 

While  walking  down  Broadway, 
one  day,  a  newsboy  ran  into  me.  I 
asked  him .  if  he  could  not  see  me, 
and  he  said:  "I  can  see  you  with 
my  naked  eye."  I  am  inclined  to 
think  that  President  Grant  also  can 
see  me,  though  I  get  in  the  back 
end  of  the  gallery. 

I  assure  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  this  is  a  very  pleasur- 
able opportunity,  afforded,  me  this 
afternoon  to  mingle  my  humble 
testimony  with  the  testimonies  that 
have  already  been  borne  during 
this  conference.  I  uphold  and  sus- 
tain the  work  of  the  Lord  with  all 
my  heart.  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
bears  witness  to  my  spirit  that  what 
was  done  in  our  forenoon  meeting 
yesterday  is  of  the  Lord.  I  have 
always  taken  great  pleasure  in 
standing  before  the  public  com- 
mitting myself  to  my  public  utter- 
ances.    Therein,    I    believe,  lies 


much  of  the  strength  of  the  .Church 
in  the  developing  of  integrity  of 
heart  and  character  which  stand's 
for  right.  I,  too,  have  spent  a  num- 
ber of  years  in  the  ministry,  years 
that  have  been  the  happiest  of  my 
life.  In  the  year  1898,  I  was  called, 
not  by  receiving  a  Box  "B"  letter, 
but  called  by  President  George  Q. 
Cannon  in  a  conference  that  was 
being  held  in  Franklin,  Idaho.  I 
was  set  apart  within  a  few  minutes 
after  the  call,  and  was  told  that  my 
place  was  in  the  Northwestern 
states.  One  month  after  the  call  I 
was  pursuing  my  labors.  After 
completing  my  mission  there,  to  the 
satisfaction  of  those  who  presided 
over  me,  I  returned  to  my  home, 
entered  into  pursuits  of  life  which 
I  had  chosen,  and  was  allowed  'to 
remain  home  nine  years,  when  the 
call  came  for  me  to  go  to  England. 
I  labored  there  upward  of  two 
years  and  found  increasing  joy 
with  the  increasing  time  spent  in 
the  service  of  the  master.  After 
completing  that  mission  I  was  at 
home  twenty-eight  months,  when 
the  call  came  again  to  break  up 
home  and  go  to  the  Eastern  States. 
My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  can  not 
tell  you  the  humility  which  I  felt, 
and  the  timidity  with  which  I  en- 
tered upon  my  labors.  It  seemed 
to  me  that  if  there  was  ever  an  at- 
tempt to  fit  a  square  peg  in  a  round 
hole,  the  attempt  was  being  made 
on  that  occasion.  Yet,  I  have  en- 
deavored to  perform  my  labors  to 
the  best  of  my  ability,  and  if  I  have 
made  mistakes  it  should  be 
accredited  to  the  human  weakness 
which  we  all  have.  In  my  last 
missionary  labors  I  have  felt  even 
greater  joy  than  I  felt  on  my  two 
preceding  missions.  I  want  to  be 
one  with  the  Latter-day  Saints  at 
home  or  abroad,  wherever  I  am.  I 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


rejoice  in  the  testimony  of  the  gos- 
pel which  the  Lord  has  instilled 
into  my  heart,  and  which  I  feel  has 
influenced  my  life  for  good,  that 
has  awakened  within  me  the  con- 
sciousness of  right  and  wrong.  I 
have  observed,  in  my  past  life,  in 
fact,  it  was  one  of  my  earliest  ob- 
servations, that  when  the  Lord 
called  any  one  to  any  position  in  his 
work  him  he.  qualified.  How  many 
of  us  have  seen  bishops  and  stake 
presidents  called  in  their  young 
manhood  and  who,  upon  assuming 
their  duties,  have  stood  solidly  and 
equal  to  the  task  that  has  been  im- 
posed upon  them.  They  have  been 
able  to  counsel  in  righteousness 
those  who,  from  a  standpoint  of 
years,  are  old  enough  to  be  their 
fathers  and  their  grandfathers. 

I  bespeak  for  Brother  McCune 
in  his  appointment  as  mission  pres- 
ident the  support  of  the  Saints  and 
the  missiona'ries  of  the  Eastern 
states  mission,  which  is  now  upon 
the  verge,  I  believe,  of  a  tremend- 
ous and  beautiful  growth.  We  have 
had  nothing  to  do  with  the  publica- 
tion of  the  literature  of  the  missions 
of  the  United  States,  such  as  has 
been  the  experience  of  and  as  re- 
ported by  President  Ellsworth,  but 
we  have  opened  up  a  number  of 
branches.  We  have  worked  dili- 
gently, though  our  reports  may  not 
show  what  other  mission  reports 
might  show.'  It  must  be  under- 
stood that  the  intolerance  of  the 
United  States  seems  to  have  been 
crowded  into  the  northeastern 
part,  and  I  do  not  know  where  it 
can  go  unless  it  sinks  into  the  ocean 
after  a  few  more  years'  efficient 
work  there.  We  have  met  with  a 
great  deal  of  opposition.  The  Lord 
has  sustained  us.  Our  young  men, 
many  of  them,  say  they  have 
come  to  the  mission  field  to  gain  a 


testimony — I  can  not  believe  this, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  though 
that  is  the  method  of  their  express- 
ing themselves — I  believe  every  son 
and  daughter  of  the  Lord  who  has 
been  born  under  the  covenant,  with 
the  promises  of  the  covenant  upon 
their  heads,  that  they  come  into  this 
world  with  nobility  of  spirit  and' 
with  a  testimony  which  requires 
only  development.  That  develop- 
ment can  come  by  the  service  which 
we  devote  to  the  blessing  of  our 
fellow  men  and  the  establishing  of 
the  work  of  the  Lord  among  our 
heavenly  Father's  children.  My 
heart  is  filled  with  joy  and  glad- 
ness in  knowing  that  I  have  kept 
close  enough,  at  least,  to  the  pre- 
scribed rule  of  the  Church,  to  re- 
tain my  testimony.  I  know  that 
God  lives,  that  he  is  a  re- 
warder  of  them  that  diligently 
seek  him.  I  know  that  his  hand 
is  over  this  people;  even  though 
trials  may  come  which  might 
seem  difficult  to  surmount, .  he  will 
bear  us  off  triumphant  in  the  de- 
dree  that  we  will  place  our 
whole-souled  dependence  upon  him. 
I  bear  testimony  that  Jesus  Christ 
is  the  savior  of  the  world,  the  only 
begotten  of  the  Father  in  the  flesh ; 
that  he  died  for  mankind  and  that 
he  has  given  unto  us  a  plan  of  life 
and  salvation,  which  plan  is  be- 
ing advocated  in  the  world  today 
by  those  whom  the  Lord  calls  as 
missionaries,  as  well  as  those  who 
preside  and  preach  at  home.  I  also 
bear  witness  that  the  powers  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  have  not  been  abridged 
or  abrogated,  that  they  are  as  man- 
ifest in  the  Church  today  ly  the 
healing  of  the  sick  and  the  raising 
of  those  who  are  downcast  in  spirit, 
restoring  their  souls,  leading  them 
in  the  ways  of  peace  and  happi- 
ness, as  it  was  ever  its  mission  to  do 


ELDER  JOHN  L.  HERRICK 


103 


in  any  former  generation.  I  bear 
witness  to  you  and  solemnly  testify 
that  if  I  know  anything  whatsoever 
in  this  world,  I  do  positively  know 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet 
of  the  true  and  the  living  God, 
raised  up  in  our  day  and  time  for 
the  ushering  in  of  the  dispensation 
of  the  fulness  of  times,  when  all 
dispensations  of  the  past  shall  be 
brought  in  with  their  especial  and 
peculiar  blessings.  I  bear  witness 
to  you  that  those  who  have  suc- 
ceeded the  prophet  Joseph  Smith 
were  also  prophets,  seers  and  reve- 
lators,  upheld  and  sustained  by  the 
power  of  Almighty  God.  I  bear 
witness  to  you  today  that  Heber  J. 
Grant,  whom  we  have  voted  to  sus- 
tain, as  the  leader  of  this  Church, 
is  the  prophet,  seer  and  revelator 
of  the  Church,  and  that  the  mantle 
of  authority  has  fallen  upon  him, 
and,  that  he,  too,  is  qualified  in  full 
measure  to  lead  and  direct  the  work 
of  the  Lord  that  is  being  performed 
by  this  people.  This  Church  has 
its  peculiar  mission,  two-fold  as  it 
is,  in  not  only  carrying  the  gospel 
to  the  ends  of  the  earth  to  those 
who  have  not  the  gospel,  but  also 
in  perfecting  those  who  are  mem- 
bers of  the  Church.  Now  may  the 
peace  of  our  heavenly  Father  rest 
upon  all  Israel,  at  home  and 
abroad,  that  they  may  see  more 
clearly  the  plans  and  purposes  that 
he  has  wrought  for  the  salvation 
of  the  human  family.  May  we  keep 
our  covenants  sacred  and  always 
live  worthy  of  the  approbation  of 
our  heavenly  Father,  that  we 
may  claim  his  blessings,  is  my 
humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Miss  Shipp  sang  a  solo:  accom- 
panied by  Tracy  Y.  Cannon  at  the 
organ,  and  Mae  Anderson,  violin. 


ELDER  JOHN  L.  HERRICK 

(Retiring  President  of  the  Western 
States  Mission.) 

If  it  were  possible,  I  feel  more 
today  the  need  of  your  faith  than 
I  did  when  I  occupied  this  stand 
in  a  like  capacity  a  little  over  ten 
years  ago.  In  many  ways  we  have 
realized  the  truth  of  the  words  of 
our  Lord  and  Master  in  saying: 
"And  every  one  that  hath  forsaken 
houses,  or  brethren,  or  sisters  or 
father,  or  mother,  or  "wife,  or  chil- 
dren, or  lands,  for  my  name's  sake, 
shall  receive  an  hundredfold,  and 
shall  inherit  everlasting  life."  What 
we  failed  to  receive,  I  have  faith 
that  we  will  receive,  anc"  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord  will  come  to  us  in 
such  measure  as  we  deserve.  Not 
in  a  material  sense  have  we  in- 
creased an  hundredfold — for  I  have 
been  connected  with  no  business 
during  that  time,  other  than  mis- 
sion work,  but  in  divers  ways,  we 
have  been  the  recipients  of  such 
blessings  that  it  is  beyond  my  power 
to  describe.  I  entered  upon  the  du- 
ties of  a  mission,  under  a  blessing 
from  President  Anthon  H.  Lund, 
and  I  acknowledge  to  you  today 
that  I  have  received  the  blessings 
that  he  promised  at  that  time.  I 
acknowledge  also  to  you  that  the 
blessings  that  were  promised  to  my 
wife  have  been  more  than  realized 
upon  her  head ;  and  next  to  tht 
inspiration  that  has  come  to  me, 
through  the  ministration  of  Christ, 
the  efforts  of  my  wife  have  been  one 
of  the  greatest  sources  of  support 
and  helpfulness.  "Life  will  give 
us  back  whatever  we  put  into  it," 
said  a  prominent  writer.  "In  many 
ways,  it  is  like  a  bank.  Put  joy  into 
the  world  and  it  will  come  back  to 
you  with  compound  interest;  but 
you  cannot  check  out  either  money 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


or  happiness  unless  you  have  made 
deposits.  If  you  put  in  joy  and 
love,  unselfishness  and  a  little  laugh- 
ter and  faith,  they'll  all  come  back 
some  day." 

I  need  hardly  go  into  details  at 
this  time,  to  tell  you  what  we  have 
accomplished  in  the  Western  States 
mission,  and  I  think  it  is  not  looked 
for.  Suffice  it  to  say  that  we  have 
increased  the  population  nearly  four 
times,  and  the  receipts  about  ten 
times.  In  turning  over  the  mission 
to  our  sucsessor,  President  John  M. 
Knight,  we'  can  only  hope  that  he 
will  find  there  a  responsive  chord  in 
the  hearts  and  the  minds  of  the  peo- 
ple. I  believe  he  will  find  the  going 
comparatively  easy,  although  I  am 
sure  that  from  now  on  we  may  look 
for  greater  success  in  the  mission 
fields,  than  ever  before.  I  confi- 
dently look  for  it.  I  believe  the 
time  is  at  hand  when  men  of  under- 
standing and  men  of  power  and  in- 
fluence will  go  forth  in  full  purpose 
of  heart,  and  in  the  authority  of 
God  will  bring  untold  thousands  to 
a  knowledge  of  the  truth. 

I  acknowledge  with  deep  grati- 
tude my  connection  with  by  breth- 
ren, the  mission  presidents.  It  has 
ever  been  a  source  of  joy  and  of  sat- 
isfaction to  labor  with  them.  They 
are  -men  of  God  and  whether  they 
remain  in  the  field  or  go  elsewhere, 
my  prayer  and  my  good  wishes  shall 
always  be  with  them. 

I  regard  highly  and  am  deeply 
grateful  for  the  association  that  I 
ha'1  with  the  late  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith  and  his  associates,  his 
counselors,  and  T  am  no  less  grate- 
ful for  even  a  brief  association  with 
those  who  have  been  chosen  to  suc- 
ceed him.  This  work  will  go  on. 
The  man  who  stands  at  the  head 
of  the  Church  today  is  the  appointed 


of  the  Lord,  and  he  will  lead  this 
Church  with  just  as  much  wisdom 
as  the  first  prophet  in  the  last  dis- 
pensation, according  to  its  needs. 
These  men  who  have  been  selected 
for  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  are 
all  wonderful  characters,  and  I  feel 
it  a  compliment  to  the  missions  that 
one  of  their  number  has  been  chosen 
to  be  an  apostle  in  this  day. 

I  bear  you  my  witness  to  the 
knowledge  that  has  come  to  me  of 
the  divinity  of  this  work.  It  is 
truly  the  Lord's  work.  His  servant, 
Joseph  Smith,  was  divinely  called, 
divinely  inspired,  and  he  was  led  in 
all  his  acts  by  the  wisdom  of  the 
Almighty.  My  testimony  has  grown 
with  the  months  and  years  of  serv- 
ice, and  I  do  not  regret  one  mo- 
ment of  tb"  tivre  that  we  have  put 
in  the  service  of  the  Church. 

If  I  may  be  permitted  to  say  it;  I 
want  to  refer  to  the  overpowering 
thought  that  came  to  me  in  the  last 
few  months  of  our  mission  work, 
and  I  have  not  hesitated  to  speak 
of  it  among  our  people  in  the  world  ; 
and  that  is  that  we  should  stand  as 
a  bulwark  in  defense  of  this  nation. 
We  should  stand  bv  him  who  is  at 
the  head  of  it  at  this  critical  pe- 
riod, just  as  we  should  support  Our 
,  leader  who  sits  upon  this  stand 
today,  and  believe  me  I  do  not  say 
it  in  any  partisan  spirit.    I  say  it 
because  I  firmly  believe  that  jn  the 
culmination  of    this  great  world 
peaee  conference;  a  League  of  Na- 
tions is  to  come  and  it  will  be  a 
step  forward  in  the  interest  of  hu- 
manity— a  step  forward  in  the  in- 
terest of  religion.    In  It  we  can 
realize  in  a  sense  that  we  are  ap- 
proaching the  day  that  we  have 
long  dreamed  of  and  hoped  for, 
when  there  should  be  a  universal 
peace.   God  hasten  the  day,  and  let 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 


105 


us  realize  the  importance  of  this 
unique  work.  Let  us  resolve,  if 
the  time  comes,  that  it  needs  our 
support,  that  we*  should  cast  our 
vote  and  use-  our  influence  in  order 
that  the  world  may  be  made  better 
and  safer  to  live  in,  better  to  live 
in  than  ever  before. 

Grant,  O  Lord,  blessings  to  this 
people,  to  thine  appointed  servants, 
and  hasten  the  advancement  of 
thy  great  work  established  in  the 
world,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 

(President   of  the   Western  States 
Mission.) 

The  testimonies  that  have  been 
borne  during  the  sessions  of  this 
conference  have  impressed  me  as  X 
have  never  been  impressed  before. 
I  am  grateful  for  the  fellowship 
that  I  have  with  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters. 

As  I  witnessed  the  magnificent 
assembly  on  Sunday  morning,  and 
realized  that  assembled  on  that  oc- 
casion was  the  best  body  of  men 
that  could  be  brought  together  un- 
der heaven,  I  thanked  God  for  my 
fellowship  and  association  with  you. 
I  was  grateful  in  my  heart  for  the 
testimony  of  the  truth  that  has  been 
borne  in  upon  my  life.  I  was  grate- 
ful unto  my  Father  for  the  belief 
that  I  had  in  the  mission  of  his  Son, 
the  Redeemer  of  mankind,  and  1 
thanked  the  Lord  that  the  oppor- 
tunity had  come  again  to  me  to  go 
forth  to  the  nations  of  the  earth  and 
bear  witness  of  the  restored  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

It  was  my  good  fortune,  in  1895, 
to  be  called  upon  a  mission.  I  had 
desired,  like  the  other  brethren, 
from  my  early  childhood  to  preach 


the  gospel  of  repentance  to  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth.  My  grandfather 
and  many  of  my  relatives  had  been 
active  in  the  mission  field.  My 
grandfather  had  filled  four  missions 
abroad.  I  had  listened  to  the  testi- 
mony that  he  bore  concerning  the 
gospel,  concerning  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  and  the  other  men 
who  were  instruments  in  establish- 
ing this  work  in  the  earth.  I  be- 
lieved it,  with  all  my  heart,  and  it 
was  my  desire  to  proclaim  that 
truth  to  the  nations  of  the  earth.  I 
found  joy  unspeakable,  when  I  first 
went  into,  the  mission  field,  in  testi- 
fying to  the  world  that  there  was 
need  of  a  new  revelation  from  God, 
that  there  was  need  of  a  new 
prophet  in  this  dispensation,  and 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  that  prophet. 
I  never  felt  to  apologize  for  the 
faith  that  I  had  in  "Mormonism." 
It  was  a  pleasure  to  testify  that  it 
came  to  the  forefront  without  any 
apology  whatsoever  for  its  exist- 
ence. It  was  a  pleasure  to  invite  all 
men  to  make  the  fullest  and  freest 
investigation  of  all  its  principles,  its 
doctrines,  its  precepts  and  com- 
mandments, and  to  declare  unto 
them  that  if  they  would  have  faith 
in  God  and  repent  of  their  sins, 
they  might  know  the  truth,  and  the 
truth  would  make  them  free. 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  of  the 
gospel  that  has  come  into  my  life. 
I  know  that  it  is  true.  I  know  that 
Jesus  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  his 
prophet.  I  have  faith  and  confi- 
dence in  the  presiding  brethren  of 
the  Church.  I  uphold  and  sustain 
them  with  all  my  heart.  I  have  not 
only  rejoiced,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, in  laboring  in  the  ministry 
abroad  but  I  have  had  satisfaction 
in  laboring  at  home.  I  have  had 
just  as  much  joy  come  into  my  life 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


in  giving  service  to  the  cause  in  the 
Stakes  of  Zion  where  I  have  lived, 
as  I  received  in  the  mission  field, 
and  I  have  felt  that  we  should  give 
service  to  the  Church.  I  have  fully 
felt  compensated  for  all  the  efforts 
and  service  I  have  ever  given  to 
the  Church.  What  we  call  sacrifice 
to  me  was  no  sacrifice  at  all,  be- 
cause I  have  been  repaid  for  every 
effort  that  I  have  put  forth. 

I  shall  go  into  the  mission  field 
in  the  humility  of  my  neart,  and  en- 
deavor in  my  weak  way  to  accomp- 
lish the  mission  that  is  laid  upon  me 
I  testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and 
sicters,  that  I  have  full  faith  in  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and 
that  it  is  my  desire  io  preach  the 
gospel  of  repentance  to  the  people 
of  this  generation.  May  the  bless- 
ings of  heaven  attend  you  in  all  of 
your  undertakings,  and  may  God's 
choicest  blessings  attend  the  presid- 
ing authorities  of  the  Church ;  may 
they  have  power  and  influence  with 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  may  we 
have  a  disposition  to  put  into  prac- 
tice in  our  daily  lives  the  instruc- 
tions that  we  receive  from  them. 
God  bless  you,  I  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  HEBER  C.  IVERSON 

(President  of  the  Northwestern  States 
Mission.) 

I  share  the  feeling  expressed  by 
the  worthy  man  whom  I  am  suc- 
ceeding, in  his  splendid  address  to 
us  this  morning,  when  he  said : 
"Standing  in  the  presence  of  my 
new  responsibility  I  feel  truly  weak, 
insignificant  and  almost  helpless." 
Once  before  in  my  life  have  I  felt 
almost,  if  not  wholly,  as  I  do  to- 
day. That  was  when,  twenty  years 
ago,  I  was  called  to  preside  over 


the  ward  in  which  I  was  born  and 
have  lived  all  my  life,  called  as  a 
boy  to  preside  over  one  of  the  larg- 
est wards  in  Salf  Lake  City,  and 
three  men  who  had  formerly  been 
my  bishops.  I  sincerely  trust  that  as 
the  Lord  was  good  to  me  in  that 
ministry,  and  that  those  over  whom 
I  presided  were  patient  and  loving 
and  kind,  that  he.  will  again  be  good 
to  me  and  that  those  among  whom 
I  labor  will  bear  with  me  in  my 
weakness,  with  my  many  imperfec- 
tions, and  that  I  may  find  in  the 
ministry  now  before  me  the  same 
joy  that  I  had  in  the  ministry  that 
,1  have  just  completed.  I  am  con- 
scious of  the  fact  that  I  am  follow- 
ing in  the  footsteps  of  a  mighty  man 
in  Israel.  He  enjoyed,  to  a  very 
marked  degree,  the  love  and  the 
confidence  of  the  people  among 
whom  he  labored,  and  I  do  not  won- 
der at  this,  for  my  association  with 
him,  during  a  few  days,  has  en- 
deared him  to  me.  They  love  him 
no  more  than  I  do ;  my  belief  is  that 
to  the  cause  I  have  consecrated,  m 
the  same  measure  that  he  did,  my 
humble  ability  and  every  sentiment 
of  my  being,  and  sincerely  trust  thai 
God  will  recognize  that  consecra- 
tion, and  that  he  will  give  to  me  the 
ability  and  strength  to  do  what  is  in 
my  heart — my  duty  to  rw  fellow 
men,  whom  I  love  as  God's  chil- 
dren. 

I  have  been  overwhelmed,  my 
dear  brethren  and  sisters,  with  the 
magnitude  of  the  wortc  and  the  pos- 
sibilities that  lie  before  us.  This  is 
the  hour,  and  we  have  the  message 
for  which  the  sorrow-stricken  world 
is  crying.  Unfortunately  it  bears 
an  unpopular  label.  If  known  by 
some  other  name,  it  might  be  more 
acceptable.  An  illustration  of  this 
fact  was  in  evidence  when  a  lady 


ELDER  HEBER  C.  IVERSON 


107 


in  Seattle,  approached  by  one  of  our 
elders,  in  conversation,  the  articles 
appearing  in  the  paper  published 
there,  written  by  Brother  Talmage, 
were  under  discussion  and  she  ex- 
pressed her  admiration  for  tho.se 
splendid  articles — which,  by  the 
way,  I  want  to  say  to  you,  are  do- 
ing an  immense  amount  of  good — 
and  when  told  that  they  were  writ- 
ten by  a  member  of  the  "Mormon" 
Church  she  absolutely  refused  to 
believe  it.  For  she  could  not  think 
that  any- such  good  could  come  out 
of  "Mormondom."  Like  those  of 
old,  "can  any  good  come  out  of 
Nazareth?"  But  conditions  have 
very  greatly  changed.  The  senti- 
ment toward  our  people  has 
changed  since  my  last  mission  in 
the  state  of  Tennessee,  in  connec- 
tion with  my  dear  associate  and 
friend,  Elder  George  Albert  Smith. 
When  there,  we  found  that  objec- 
tions to  our  message,  and  ridicule, 
was  the  rule.  Now  we  find  such  to 
be  the  exception,  when  our  elders 
approach  those  to  whom  they  desire 
to  deliver  the  message,  and  I  am 
thankful  for  the  changed  sentiment. 
I  am  thankful  for  my  association 
with  Elder  George  Albert  Smith  in 
the  mission  field  in  Tennessee,  and 
I  cannot  forebear  this  opportunity 
of  invoking  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord  upon  him,  indicating  my  feel- 
ing for  him.  Since  laboring  in  Ten- 
nessee together  we  have  been  very 
close  friends.  Now  we  separate — 
he  to  go  to  the  East  and  I  to  the 
West,  and  I  sincerely  pray  that  God 
will  bless  him,  strengthen  him  in 
body,  renew  him  in  spirit,  and  re- 
turn him  to  us  to  live  many  years, 
to  continue  his  labors  as  a  pillar  and 
tower  of  strength  in  this 'work  and 
an  inspiration  to  all  Israel,  as  he 
has  been  these  many  years,  a  most 
worthy  son  of  a  most  noble  sire — 


John  Henry  Smith.  I  know  I  voice 
your  sentiments  when  I  thus  speak, 
though  feebly. 

I  am  convinced,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  from  the  articles  that  ap- 
pear from  time  to  time,  written  by 
eminent  thinkers,  that  as  Elder  Mc- 
Kay expressed  it  this  morning,  all 
institutions  of  human  construction 
have  been  shaken  from  center  to 
circumference,  during  the  past  few 
years,  and  the  so-called  Christian 
churches — for  they  belong  to  'this 
class,  being  of  human  origin,formed 
by  human  wisdom — are  not  an  ex- 
ception to  the  rule ;  and  as  one  has 
expressed  it ;  "Modern  Christianity- 
has  been  tried  in  the  trenches  and 
found  wanting,  and  the  experiences 
of  the  past  vear  have  proved  the 
death  of  mystic  Christianity."  "Let 
us  hope  and  pray  that  it  may  be 
the  birth  of  an  ethical,  practical 
Christianity  which  men  really  be- 
lieve and  live."  It  is  for  this  reality 
the  world  is  crying — not  for  a  re- 
ligion founded  upon  a  God  that  is 
immaterial,  invisible,  incomprehen- 
sible— no,  but  upon  a  God  who  is  a 
reality,  and  with  the  message  which 
the  children  of  men  need ;  knowing 
that  in  the  language  of  the  poet, 

"Life  is  real,  life  is  earnest, 
And  the  grave  is  not  its  goal. 

Dust  thou  art,  to  dust  returnest, 
Was  not  spoken  of  the  soul ;" 

And,  as  Carlyle  has  said :  "Re- 
member that  thy  life  is  not  an  idle 
dream,  it  is  a  sacred  reality,  all  thine 
own,  and  the  only  thing  thou  hast 
with  which  to  face  eternity."  So, 
we  believe  in  a  real  God,  who  is 
really  our  Father,  as  Paul  has  de- 
clared— "We  have  had  fathers  of 
the  flesh  which  corrected  us,  and 
we  gave  them  reverence" — they 
were  real  beings;  there  was  noth- 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ing  mystical  about  them — "should 
we  not  much  rather  be  in  subjec- 
tion to  the  Father  of  our  spirits  and 
live?"  He  is  the  Father  of  our 
spirits,  and  he  is  just  as  real  a 
being  as  was  the  one  whom  we 
knew  and  called  father  in  the  flesh. 
That  is  our  message  to  the  world. 
We  have  been  criticised  because  we 
are  "too  materialistic."  If  by  that 
our  critics  mean  consecrated  to  and 
devoted  to  the  pursuit  of  wealth 
and  material  things,  primarily,  we 
say,  Not  guilty.  We  do  believe  in 
the  reality  of  life,  in  the  reality  of 
God,  whose  Son  was  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world,-  was  the  Babe  of  Beth- 
lehem, was  the  carpenter  of  Naz- 
areth, was  the  crucified  One,  on 
Calvary's  cross,  and  the  body  risen 
from  the  tomb  of  Joseph  of  Arima- 
thea — the  disciples  being  told  to  be- 
hold the  prints  of  the  nails  in  his 
hands  and  feet,  and  the  wounds  of 
the  spear  in  his  side;  "Handle  me 
and  see,  for  a  spirit  hath  not  flesh 


and  bones,  as  ye  see  me  have" — 
thus  indicating  realities  in  which 
we  believe  and  which  we  know  to 
be  true;  knowing  that  real  beings, 
Peter,  James  and.  John  conferred 
upon  Joseph  Smith  the  Melchize- 
dek  priesthood ;  that  John  the  Bap- 
tist, a  real  being,  conferred  upon 
him  the  Aaronic  priesthood.  We 
know  that  these  things  are  true ; 
and  this  is  our  message  to  _  the 
world.  God  help  us  to  bear  it,  ana 
may  the  Lord  bless  you,  my  bretn- 
ren  and  sisters.  These  -brethren 
know  my  sentiments  toward  them. 
Every  sentiment  of  my  soul,  with 
all  its  love  and  affection,  belongs  to 
those  who  lead  Israel.  God  help 
them  and  us,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  Doxology,  and  the  closing 
prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Clar- 
'ence  Gardner,  president  oif  the 
Star  Valley  stake  of  Zion. 


THIRD  DAY. 


• 

Conference    continued    in  the 

Tabernacle  on  Tuesday,  June  3, 
1919.  President  Heber  J.  Grant, 
presided  and  called  the  congrega- 
tion to  order  at  10  o'clock  a.  m. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang 
"High  on  the  mountain  top." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  President 
Joseph  R.  Shepherd,  of  the  Logan 
Temple. 

Mrs.  Francisca  Parkinson  sang 
a  solo:  "My  heart  ever  faithful." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  am  sure  that  all  "the  presidents 
of  our  missions  have  had  the  per- 
fect love,  confidence  and  respect, 
and  the  daily  faith  and  prayers  of 
all  the  Church  leaders,  as  they  have 
had  mine,  morning  and  night,  for 
their  success  in  the  mission  field, 
each  and  all  of  them. 

CONCERNING    THE    MISSION  PRESI- 
DENTS 

I  regret  to  learn  that  in  some 
sections  there  is  a  feeling  that  there 
must  be  something  wrong  or  re- 
leases would  not  be  given  to  the 
men  who  have  labored  so  long,  so 
faithfully,  with  such  energy  and 
zeal  and  with  the  inspiration  of  the 
Lord  in  the  mission  field.  I  desire 
to  correct  any  such  impression  on 
the  part  of  any  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints. 

Some  years  ago  it  was  the  unan- 
imous opinion  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  that  it  would  be  fair  to 
the  men  who  had  been  many  years 
in  the  mission  field,  to  be  released 
and  to  have  the  opportunity  of  re- 


turning to  4heir  homes.  The  Coun- 
cil so  unanimously  recommended, 
but  further  action  on  the  matter  was 
deferred.  Soon  after  the  death  ot 
President  Smith  the  Twelve  Apos- 
tles again  recommended  to  the 
presidency  the  honorable  release  of 
some  of  the  men  who  had  spent  long 
years  in  the  mission  field.  It  so 
happened  that  this  recommenda- 
tion was  made  at  a  meeting  where 
President  Anthon  H.  Lund  pre- 
sided, and  it  so  happened  that 
Brother  Heber  J.  Grant  and 
Brother  Charles  W.  Penrose  were 
members  of  the  quorum  when 
the  original  recommendation  was 
made.  So  you  can  plainly  see  that 
it  happened  to  be  .strictly  unanim- 
ous with  the  First  Presidency  and 
all  of  the  Twelve  that  we  should 
honorably  release  some  of  our  mis- 
sion presidents. 

I  want  to  say  that  they  have  lab- 
ored with  untiring  zeal  and  energy ; 
that  they  have  ,gained  not  only  the 
love,  the  confidence  and  respect  of 
the*  general  authorities  of  the 
Church,  but  I  am  sure  from  my  ex- 
perience in  travejing  in  all  of  their 
missions  that  they  have  gained  the 
love  and  confidence  of  the  people 
with  whom  they  have  labored ;  and 
because  of  that  intense  love,  which 
has  grown  up  in  the  hearts  of  the 
people  for  those  who  preside  over 
them  in  the  mission  field,  some  of 
the  Saints  have  been  broken-hearted 
over  the  releases  that  have  been 
made.  I  felt  that  it  was  only  fair 
to  say  this.  I  want  to  saysthat  all 
of  these  brethren  will  always  have 
a  seat  here  and  he  counted  as  mi:5- 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


sion  presidents.  They  have  our  love 
and  our  confidence.  When  I  called 
for  one  of  the  brethren  yesterday, 
he  had  to  come  from  the  gallery. 
He  perhaps  felt  that,  as  his  suc- 
cessor had  been  installed,  this  was 
not  his  place.  But  we  expect  those 
men  always  to  come  here.  We  ex- 
pect to  look  upon  them  as  faithful, 
diligent  mission  presidents.  When- 
ever an  announcement  is  made, 
from  this  stand  that  there  will  be  a 
.special  priesthood  meeting  to  which 
presidents  of  missions  are  invited, 
it  will  include  all  of  those  who 
have  presided  and  who  are 
now  released.  We  want  them  to 
feel  that  they  belong  with  the  mis- 
sion presidents  and  are  invited.  I 
wanted  to  say  this  much. 

OUR  CHAPLAINS  IN  THE  ARMY 

As  was  read  here  yesterday  in 
the  statistical  report,  we  were  en- 
titled to  twenty  chaplains  and  we 
only  have  had  three.  Two  of  these 
chaplains — Calvin  S.  Smith  and 
Herbert  Maw  saw  active  service  on 
the  firing  line.  I  understand  that 
Brother  Smith  was  wounded  three 
times,  and  has  been  decorated  for 
bravery.  He  is  a  son  of  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith. 

In  that  wonderful  charge  of  the 
marines,  at  Chateau-Thierry,  which 
will  go  down  in  history,  where  six 
thousand,  two  hundred  out  of  eight 
thousand  men  were  killed  or 
wounded,  one  of  President  Francis 
M.  Lyman's  sons,  named  after 
your  humble  servant,  lost  his  life. 

I  wish  to  say  here  that  the  gen- 
eral authorities-  of  the  Church  are 
very  grateful  to  General  Richard 
W.  Young  who  volunteered,  al- 
though beyond  the  age  limit,  to  ac- 
cept the  position  of  colonel  in  the 
army.  He  had  a  very  excellent 
oversight  and  care  of  the  boys  from 


the  state  of  Utah,  and  was  .subse- 
quently advanced  to  the  rank  of 
brigadier  general.  Our  hearts  go 
out  in  gratitude  to  him  for  again 
offering  his  services  to  his  country, 
as  he  .did  in  the#  Spanish  Ameri- 
can war,  when  he  served  in  the 
Philippines. 

We  are  grateful  to  Brother  B. 
H.  Roberts,  who  also  volunteered, 
notwithstanding  he  was  beyond  the 
age  limit,  and  did  splendid  service 
in  looking  after  our  boys,  as  chap- 
lain. He  gained  their  love  and 
their  confidence  and  had  an  excel- 
lent influence  over  them  for  good. 
I  desire  to  say- this  much  with  refer- 
ence to  the  patriotic  service  of  these 
men. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

(President  of  the  Southern  State* 
Mission.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  know 
that  the  mission  presidents  art. 
grateful  to  President  Grant  for 
hi.s  complimentary  expressions  of 
love  and  confidence  with  reference 
to  the  retiring  mission,  presidents. 
From  my  heart — and  I  speak  al- 
so for  my  companions — I  can 
'truthfully  say  that  we  have  the 
deepest  and  sincerest  love  and  con- 
fidence for  the  President  of  the 
Church,  because  we  know  that  he 
is  affectionately  disposed  towards 
the  missionaries,  and  to  all  the 
people  of  God,  and  to  the  children 
of  men  generally. 

God's  truth  is  marching  on  m 
the  world.  Through  his  servants, 
our  heavenly  Father  is  opening 
many  effectual  doors  for  the 
preaching  of  the  gospel.  The  arti- 
cles being  published  in  many  of 
the  newspapers  of  the  country — ■ 
which  articles  are  contributed  by 
Flder  James  E.  Talmage,  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve — are  being 


ELDER  CH4RLES  A.  CALLIS 


111 


widely  read.  They  are  being  read 
by  statesmen  and  business  men 
who  are  not  easily  reached  by  the 
traveling  elders.  A  short  time  ago 
a  newspaper  in  the  south  published 
a  sermon  delivered  in  this  build- 
ing, by  Elder  Orson  F.  Whitney. 
The  sermon  was  received  with 
great  favor  by  the  non-members 
of  the  Church.  It  created  much 
interest  in  the  gospel,  and  the 
state  historical  society  of  the  state 
in  which  the  newspaper  is  pub- 
lished, requested  that  I  forward 
to  them  the  standard  works  of  the 
Church  and  such  other  information 
as  would  enlighten  the  people  of 
the  state  generally  upon  the  doc- 
trines of  the  Church. 

i 

"The  swift  messengers  are  treading 
Thy    high    courts    where  princes 
dwell, 

And  thy  glorious  light  is  spreading, 
Zion  prospers,  all  is  well." 

The  Apostle  Paul  said :  "Though 
I  speak  with  the  tongues  of  men 
and  of  angels,  and  have  not  charity, 
I  am  become  as  sounding  brass,  or 
a  tinkling  cymbal." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  the 
missionaries  who  go  forth  into  the 
world  are  imbued  with  deep  love 
for  the  children  of  men.  This  love 
mav  be  called  the  spirit  of  their 
mission,  and  when  an  elder  chances 
by  neglect  to  lose  that  spirit,  he 
becomes  indeed  as  sounding  brass 
and  a  tinkling  cymbal ;  but  thank 
God  the  cases  where  this  misfor- 
tune occurs  are  few  and  far  be- 
tween. 

The  Psalmist  David  said:  "It 
is  good  for  me  that  I  have  been 
afflicted;  that  I  might  learn  thy 
statutes.  The  law  of  thv  mouth 
is  better  unto  me  than  thousands 
of  gold  and  silver."    Why?  Be: 


cause  as  David  said:  "The  law  of 
the  Lord  is  perfect,  converting  the 
soul:  the  testimony  of  the  Lord 
is  sure,  making  wise  the  simple." 
The  souls  of  these  missionaries 
who  go  forth  to  preach  the  gospel 
are  converted,  and  the  souls  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  are  converted. 
They  stand  on  a  secure  and  firm 
foundation. 

Someone  has  said  that  we  are 
sons,  not  pets ;  that  we  are  to  be 
treated  with  kindness,  but  not 
spoiled.  So,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, the  experiences  through  which 
the  Lord  permits  us  to  pass,  or 
those  experiences  through  which 
he  leads  us,  will  ultimately  ■>  result 
in  our  good ;  for,  as  the  Apostle 
Paul  said,  "The  Lord  will  make  all 
things  work  together  for  good,  to 
those  who  love  him."  The  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  a  great  people  be- 
cause they  believe,  as  the  Savior 
said,  "It  is  more  blessed  to  give 
than  to  receive."  It  is  not  that 
which  we  receive  which  makes  us 
great,  but  it  is  that  which  we  give ; 
and  the  spirit  of  sacrifice  mani- 
fested by  the  members  of  this 
Church,  is  the  spirit  that  makes 
them  great  in'  the  sight  of  God, 
great  in  the  sight  of  good  men  and 
good  women,  and  a  power — an 
evangelizing  power  of  great  good 
in  all  the  world. 

The  Apostle  Paul  was  told  by 
the  Lord  that  he  must  go  before 
Caesar,  and  he  embarked  on  a  ship 
to  accomplish  that  perilous  journey. 
Me  counseled  the  captain  of  the 
ship  to  stay  in  a  certain  place  that 
winter  because,  there  was  danger 
in  leaving  that  place :  but  this  man 
did  not  obey  his  counsel,  and  the 
way  of  the  counsel-breaker  is  hard. 
A  certain  navigator  was  asked  by 
a  passenger  on  a  ship  if  he  knew 
where  the  rocks  were,  "No,"  said 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


he,  "But  I  know  where  they  are 
not."  That  is  the  safe  guide, — 
not  to  look  for  sin,  not  to  look  for 
those  evils,  but  to  tread  the  path  of 
life,  the  path  of  counsel,  where  we 
know  that  these  sins  and  evils  are 
not.  Well,  they  disobeyed  Paul's 
counsel,  but  the  Lord  told  him  that 
his  life  and  the  life  of  the  passen- 
gers of  the  ship  would  be  saved. 
The  .ship's  crew  became  fearful  for 
their  safety  and  they  were  about 
to  abandon  the  ship,  and  leave  it 
with  its  precious  cargo  to  its  fate ; 
but  Paul  said  to  the  centurian, 
speaking  of  the  officers  and  the 
crew.  "Except  these  abide  in  the 
ship,  we  cannot  be  saved."  There 
is  the  lesson :  except  the  apostles 
and  prophets  abide  in  the  ship  of 
Zion,  we  cannot  be  saved ;  for  God 
has  placed  these  men  in  his  Church 
for  the  edification  of  his  people,  for 
perfecting  them  in  the  doctrines  of 
Jesus  Christ,  for  bringing  the  peo- 
ple to  the  unity  of  the  faith.  These 
men  have  been  endowed  with  pow- 
ers to  perform  sacred  ordinances 
for  the  living  and  for  the  dead — 
which  the  Latter-day  Saints  regard 
as  essential  to  their  salvation^and 
without  these  men  we  cannot  be 
saved  in  the  fulness  of  salvation, 
in  the  enjoyment  of  the  great  boon . 
of  eternal  life.  The  Church  is 
built  upon  the  foundation  of  proph- 
ets and  apostles,  Jesus  Christ,  him- 
self, being  the  chief  cornerstone. 

Once  in  a  certain  harbor  a 
mighty  tempest  arose  and  the  com- 
mander wanted  to  get  his  fleet  out 
in  the  open  sea,  away  from  the 
rockv  and  barren  shores  so  that  he 
would  not  be  destroyed.  The  temp- 
est knocked  those  ships  about,  and 
sailors  were  washed  overboard. 
While  the  storm  was  raging  with 
great  furv,  the  commander  at  the 
most  critical  moment  ordered  the 


band  to  play  the  Star  Spangled 
Banner.  As  the  strains  of  that  im- 
mortal national  anthem  went  over 
the  storm-tossed  sea,  the  sailors 
took  heart,  they  fought  with  re- 
doubled energy,  they  battled  with 
the  elements  with  renewed  strength, 
and  those  sailors,  drowning  in  the 
sea,  with  the  last  vestige  of  their 
strength,  raised  their  hands  cind 
voices  in  praise  of  the  flag  and  the 
Star  Spangled  Banner,  the  music 
of  which  was  comforting  their 
souls.  In  this  Church,  where  stand 
the  First  Presidency  and  the 
Twelve,  there  is  solid  ground.  On 
ether  grounds  are  sinking  sands. 
There  need  be  no  doubt.  These 
servants  of  God  whom  we  love  will 
always  sound  the  true  notes,  they 
will  always  cause  the  music  of  the 
gospel  to  be  sounded  to  the  com- 
forting -and  the  salvation  of  the 
children  of  God.  The  poet's 
prayer,  "God  give  us  men,"  has 
been  answered.  He  gave  this  nation 
men  who  went  to  a  foreign  shore 
and  palsied  the  strong  arm  of 
autocracy.  He  has  placed  in  this 
Church  men  of  counsel,  men  of 
God,  true  shepherds  of  the  people. 
God  bless  these  men  that  they  may 
ever  remain  in  the  ship  of  Zion,  in 
the  Church,  to  our  comfort  and 
salvation ;  and  may  we  sustain 
them,  with  loving  and  loyal  hearts, 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON 

(Retiring  President  of  the  California 
Mission.) 

"Now  I  know  that  the  Lord  is 
greater  than  all  g'Ods,  for  in  the 
thing  wherein  they  dealt  proudly, 
he  was  above  them."  These  are 
#the  words  of  the  Midianite  High 
Priest,  Jethro,  to  his  son-in-law, 


ELDER  JOSEPH  E:  ROBINSON 


113 


Moses,  the.  great  law-giver  of 
ancient  Israel.  Aaron's  rod  had' 
budded,  evolved  into  a  serpent,  ana 
had  devoured  the  sacred  snake  of 
the  Egyptians,  their  symbol  ot 
kingly  power  and  priestcraft.  The 
river  Nile,  which  they  worshiped 
as  a  cleanser  of  sin  and  a  healer  of 
diseases,  had  become  a  loathsome 
thing.  Hathor  and  Isis,  and  the 
sacred  beetle  had  been  brought  to 
naught  by  the  thunder,  the  hail,  and- 
the  plague  of  lice  and  flies.  The 
frog  which  was  supposed  to  be  a 
purifier  of  water  and  upon  which 
no  man  could  tread  even  inadver- 
tently and  escape  the  penalty  of 
■death — had  befouled  their  bed- 
rooms, their  kneading  troughs,  and 
had  become  a  loathsome  detestable 
plague.  The  great  god  Apis  whom 
they  worshiped  in  the  temple  at 
Memphis  had  doubtless  died  when 
the  common  cattle  of  the  Egyptians 
died  by  pestilence.  The  great  god 
Ra,  who  painted  the  flowers  and 
ripened  their  harvests,  had  been 
darkened,  and  then  Osiris  himself, 
the  god  of  life,  was  put  to  shame 
when  the  first-born  among  the 
Egyptians  had  been  brought  to 
death.  When  these  things  were  re- 
lated by  Moses  to  his  father-in-law, 
he  declared,  as  I  have  read  to  you : 
"Now  I  know  that  the  Lord  is 
greater  than  all  gods." 
•  I  can  say,  after  nineteen  years  in 
the  mission  field :  "Now  I  know 
that  God  is  greater  than  all  gods." 
I  have  seen  the  sick  healed,  the  par- 
aletic  to  leap  with  joy,  the  lame  to 
walk,  the  eyes  of  the  blind  to  see 
and  the  ears  of  the  deaf  have  been 
opened,  and  angels  have  ministered 
to  the  sons  of  men.  The  prisoner 
has  been  visited  and,  when  worthy, 
set  free.  The  sick  have  been  com- 
forted, the  dead  have  been  properly 
cared  for.   The  froward  and  unto- 


ward of  our  youth,  and  their  el- 
ders, too,  who  have  left  the  body  of 
the  Church  and  have  drifted  Sut  to 
the  Coast  to  get  away  from  them- 
selves, and  people,  have  been  felt 
after  and  constrained  to  follow 
again  in  the  paths  of  virtue  and 
truth,  and  God  has  wonderfully 
magnified  the  weak  things  of  the 
'earth,  his  servants,  the  brethren 
and  sisters  engaged  in  the  ministry. 

I  welcome  the  respite  tendered 
me  by  my  release.  I  have  interests 
at  heart  that  need  my  direction 
more  than  the  affairs  of  the  mis- 
sion field.  Therefore,  I  am  glad  to 
come  home  to  my  loved  ones,  to 
come  home  where  the  House  of 
God  is  builded,  that  perhaps  therein 
I  may  have  the  chance  to  labor  for 
my  sacred  dead.  I  am  glad  to  come 
here  where  I  may  sit  under  the 
droppings  of  the  sanctuary  and  be 
chastened'  in  judgment  and  in- 
structed in  words  of  life  and  salva- 
tion "by  those  men  whom  God  hath 
chosen,  and  set  at  our  head  to  di- 
rect the  activities  of  his  people  and 
to  shape  the  destiny  of  his  Church. 

I  am  grateful  and  thankful  for 
him  who  has  been  appointed  to  suc- 
ceed me  in  the  mission  field,  a  man 
whom  I  have  loved  so  long,  and 
unto  whom  God  has  given  such  a 
wondrous  testimony  that  few  ever 
stirred  my  soul  as  his  testimony  has 
moved  it  in  times  past.  -I  feel  that 
he  will  be  kind  to  my  faults,  and 
that  he  will  magnify  what  virtues 
I  may  have  possessed  in  my  presi- 
dency. It  is  delightful,  it  is  graci- 
ous, my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be 
freed  of  the  great  responsibility 
that  rested  upon  me,  and  to  be  one 
with  you  again.  When  I  went  into 
the  field — and  I  may  be  pardoned 
perhaps  for  speaking  half  person- 
ally for  once,  as  I  am  not  wont  to 
do  it — but  when  I  went  into  the 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


mission  field  there  were  less  than 
six  hundred  souls,  about  four  hun- 
dred whom  we  knew  and  who  were 
of  record.  I  have  had  the  privilege 
of  seeing  the  work  of  God  grow 
until  there  are  five  thousand  en- 
rolled ;  and  from  a  few  meager  pos- 
sessions, through  the  magnanimous 
generosity  of  the  Trustee-in-Trust 
and  the  brethren  at  our  head,  and 
by  the  help  of  the  faithful  tithe 
payers  among  the  mission  Saints, 
and  by  donations  that  have  come 
from  goodly  friends  who  have 
visited  us,  it  has  increased  in  prop- 
erties to  more  than  the  sum  of  one 
hundred  thousand  dollars  value. 
Many  beautiful  buildings  have  been 
erected,  in  which  the  name  of  God 
is  named,  and  ground  has  been  re- 
claimed' for  Zion,  that  the  name  of 
our  Lord  should  be  declared  there- 
in and  the  Saints  be  dealt  the  bread 
of  life.  So  whilst  there  cannot 
help  but  be  some  heart  pangs  at 
parting  with  loved  ones  and  a 
man's  life  work,  still  there  is  rich 
compensation  in  their  love  and  con- 
fidence in  their  expressions  of  good 
will  and  blessing,  as  there  is  a  re- 
compense in  the  kindly  words  and 
deeds  which  have  been  shown  to 
me  and  mine  by  those  who  preside 
over  us. 

This  is  the  Lord's  work  it  does 
not  depend  on  any  one  man.  God 
is  at  the  helm.  He  will  direct  our 
efforts^  He  will  take  care  of  his 
own ;  and  although  the  sons  of  this 
generation,  who  know  him  not,  may 
be  wiser  than  the  children  of  light, 
as  the  scriptures  have  said,  God 
will  magnify  his  people  and  their 
light  shall  shine;  the  Gentiles  shall 
be  brought  to  the  gladness  of  its 
rising ;  and  the  day  will  come  when 
every  knee  shall  bow  and  every 


tongue  shall  confess  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ. 

I  have  not  only  matured  my  faith 
in  God  but  in  his  children,  mankind 
at  large.  I  love  my  Father's  chil- 
dren. I  confide  in  them,  I  trust 
them,  many  of  them  who  are  aliens 
to  our  faith  and  creed,  but  I  find 
that  they  are  truly  the  children  of 
God.  I  have  seen  them  under  such 
conditions  that  evidenced  this  fact, 
that  when  brought  to  some  dread 
extremity  they  realize,  just  as  well 
as  did .  Peter,  when,  some  disciples 
left  the  Master,  because  of  his  say- 
ing of  himself,  that  he  was  the 
bread  of  life,  which  had  come  down 
from  heaven,  and  he  turned  to  them 
and  said:  "Will  ye  also  go  away?" 
and  Peter  answered,  "Lord,  to 
whom  shalh  we  go?  thou  hast  the 
words  of  eternal  life,  and  we  be- 
lieve and  are  sure  that  thou  art 
that  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living 
God."  When  earthquake  and  fire 
laid  waste  our  great  city  of  the 
Coast  I  saw  not  only  the  saint,  the 
priest,  and  the  nun,  but  the  wanton 
with  her  paramour,  bend  on  their 
knees  and  ask  God  to  deliver  them 
from  that  dread  thing  which  they 
felt  hung  over  them,  which  no 
other  hand  could  stay.  There  was 
no  comfort  in  the  dram  shop;  there 
was  no  power  in  riches,  there  was 
no  succor  by  the  hand  of  man ;  and 
then  for  once,  at  least,  they  were 
all  made  to  realize  that  God  is  over 
all  and  that  aside  from  him  there  is 
no  help  and  no  salvation.  He  will 
speak  by  fire  and  earthquake,  by 
pestilence  and  plague  when  neces- 
sary, and  happy  are  they  who,  even 
when  thus  chastened,  turn  unto  him 
and  live.  I  admonish  you,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  to  fight  the  good 
fight,  to  keep  the  faith,  to  finish  the 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 


115 


course,  that  henceforth  for  you  and 
all  those  who  love  God's  appear- 
ing, there  shall  be  a  crown  of  right- 
eousness which  he  will  bestow  upon 
his  faithful  ones.  I  desire,  above 
all  else  that  I  shall  be  found  faith- 
ful and  true  with  you;  that  my 
guerdon  shall  be  the  one  of  eternal 
life,  in  the  presence  of  my  Re- 
deemer, my  King,  my  Lord,  and  my 
Savior,  Jesus  Christ,  and  I  ask  it  in 
his  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 

(Of  the   Council  of  Seventy,  and 
President  of  the  California 

Mission.)  « 

I  have  had  some  reminiscent 
thoughts  passing  through  my  mind 
while  sitting  in  the  congregation, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  listening 
to  the  splendid  words  that  have 
been  spoken  by  the  presiding 
authorities  of  the  Church  and  by 
the  mission  presidents  who  have 
been  called  to  address  these  confer- 
ence meetings.  It  seems  to  me  but 
a  very  brief  time  since  I  said  fare- 
well to  a  girl-wife  and  a  little  baby 
and  went  abroad  as  a  boy  mission- 
ary. Of  course,  quite  a  term  of 
years  has  passed  away  since  that 
time,  but  as  I  look  back  it  seems  a 
very  brief  period  indeed.  I  was 
somewhat  impressed  today  in 
thinking  that,  brief  as  the  time  ap- 
pears to  me,  so  far  as  I  know,  I  am 
the  oldest  man  with  one  exception 
of  all  the  mission  presidents  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  I  am  impressed 
with  the  thought  that  time  is  pass- 
ing very  swiftly.  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith  ofttimes  in  speaking  with 
reference  to  the  mission  presidents 
spoke  of  them  as  "boys."  I  don't 
know  whether  the  present  presi- 
dency of  the  Church  looked  upon 


me  as  a  boy,  like  the  other  mission 
presidents,  when  they  called  me  to 
the  responsibility  that  has  recently 
been  placed  upon  my  shoulders.  I 
feel  in  some  respects  quite  a  boy, 
and  in  other  ways  not  as  boyish  by 
any  means  as  I  was  when  I  went 
upon  my  first  mission. 

My  heart  is  filled  with  gratitude 
today  that  my  Father  in  heaven,  in 
his  wonderful  kindness,  gave  me 
the  privilege,  in  the  days  of  my 
boyhood,  to  go  abroad  as  a  repre- 
sentative of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The 
experiences  gained  in  the  mission 
field  during  my  first  mission,  con- 
vinced me  beyond  any  question  of 
doubt  that  I  was  not  upon  the  er- 
rand of  man,  but  that  in  spite  of  my 
lack  of  experience,  and  lack  of 
worthiness,  I  had  actually  been 
called  of  God  to  preach  the  gos- 
pel of  his  Son,  and  that  I  had  been 
endowed  with  authority,  even  the 
authority  of  the  holy  priesthood, 
and  actually  had  the  right  to  legally 
call  men  to  repentance,  and  to  ad- 
minister unto  them  the  precious  or- 
dinances of  the  everlasting  gospel. 
The  experiences  gained,  away  back 
at  that  period,  filled  my  heart  with 
a  joy  and  gladness  that  passeth  all 
Understanding,  just  as  the  Savior 
promised  to  those  who  would  take 
up  their  cross  and  follow  him. 

During  the  peroid  from  1881  to 
1896,  it  was  my  blessed  privilege  to 
be  called,  upon  three  separate  oc- 
casions, to  go  to  the  European  mis- 
sion as  an  elder  of  the  Church.  I 
thank  God  today  for  those  calls.  In 
all  of  those  missionary  labors,  I  had 
many  very  happy  experiences,  and 
saw  the  hand  of  God  in  a  marvel- 
ous manner  upon  many  occasions. 
I  have  had  a  happy  life,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  because  of  the  gos- 
pel of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world. 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  have  not  accumulated  very  much 
of  the  good  things  of  the  world, 
but  I  am  thankful  to  say  I  have 
always  been  quite  comfortable.  At 
times,  of  course,  like  many  others, 
I  could  have  wished  for  more  of  the 
things  of  the  world,  but  in  spite  of 
this,  I  say  again,  I  have  had  a  most 
joyful  and  happy  life,  happy  in  the 
knowledge  that  I  was  a  member  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  and  that  this  Church 
is  indeed  the  Church  of  the  living 
God.  This  Church  is  not  a  church 
established  by  the  wisdom  of  men, 
but  a  Church  established  by  the 
revelation  and  commandment  of 
God.  The  knowledge  of  this  truth 
has  been  with  me"  during  these 
years,  and  has  filled  me  with  very 
great  joy.  I  expect  to  be  happy  in 
the  labors  that  shall  come  to  me  in 
the  California  mission. 

I  realize,  as  has  been  intimated 
by  President  Grant,  that  the  hearts 
of  the  people  of  California  have 
been  wrenched  by  the  release  of 
President  Robinson.  He  has  been 
with  the  people  of  the  California 
mission  for  the  long  period  that  has 
been  named.  He  has  been  kind  and 
attentive  to  the  people,  laboring 
early  and  late  for  their  advantage 
and  blessing,  and  their  hearts  have 
gone  out  to  him.  I  haven't  any 
doubt  but  what  it  will  be  quite  a 
difficult  matter  for  some  of  the  peo- 
ple of  the  California  mission  to  ac- 
cept the  new  president,  but  I  sin- 
cerely hope  that  through  the  bless- 
ing of  God,  and  by  the  companion- 
ship and  direction  of  his  Spirit,  I 
also  may  be  led  to  pursue  such  a 
course  as  shall  be  for  the  blessing 
of  the  people.  I  hope  I  may  be  able 
to  keep  in  mind  that  I  am  sent  to 
preach  the  gospel,  and  that  I  must 
call  repentance  among  the  people. 


Responsibility  is  upon  me  to  bear 
record  to  those  with  whom  I  come 
in  contact  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the 
Son  of  the  living  God;  and  that 
•mankind,  through  his  name;  and 
through  the  ordinances  and  prin- 
ciples of  his  gospel,  can  regain  the 
presence  of  God.  My  understand- 
ing is  that  I  am  under  obligation 
to  bear  record  to  the  human  family, 
that  there  is  but  one  gospel.  God, 
himself,  so  declared  at  the  opening 
of  this  great  dispensation.  He  has 
so  taught  by  the  inspiration  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  through  the  mouths  of 
his  apostles  in  the  meridian  of  time, 
and  all  men  who  have  received 
commissions  to  preach  the  gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  from  my 
point  of  understanding,  are  under 
obligation  to  bear  record  of  the 
truth,  and  show  to  men  the  way 
of  salvation,  and  invite  and  per- 
suade men  to  receive  the  principles 
of  the  everlasting  gospel. 

I  have  a  very  great  comfort  in 
my  heart  today,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  in  the  thought  that  I  have 
the  confidence  and  the  blessing  of 
these  splendid  men  who  are  the 
leaders  of  Israel,  to  whom  refer- 
ence has  been  made  by  President 
Callis,  and  many  others  during  our 
conference.  I  hope  that  through 
their  help,  and  through  the  help  of 
the  people  generally,  and  through 
striving  to  keep  my  feet  in  the 
straight  and  narrow  path,  I  may  ac- 
complish some  good  in  the  preach- 
ing of  the  gospel.  I  thank  God  for 
the  gospel.  I  thank  God  for  the 
companionship  of  good  men.  How 
my  heart  has  swelled,  again  and 
again,  in  the  missionary  field ;  as 
I  have  looked  into  the  faces  of  my 
missionary  companions,  I  have 
praised  the  name  of  God  most*  fer- 
vently that  in  his  providence  I  was 


ELDER  NEPHI  JENSEN 


117 


permitted  to  associate  with  the 
class  of  men  who  represent  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  abroad  in  the  world,  as 
preachers  of  righteousness.  They 
have  all  been  good  men,  clean  men, 
sweet  men,  men  who  in  their  counte- 
nances, and  by  their  conduct,  have 
attracted  the  attention  of  their  fel- 
lows who  were  not  of  our  faith,  and 
they  have  been  able  to  see  that  there 
indeed  was  something  about  the 
"Mormon"  elders  that  was  differ- 
ent from  the  general  run  of  men. 
I  thank  God  such  men  have  been 
my  companions,  and  that  I  have 
been  greatly  blessed  in  their  asso- 
ciation. 

God  be  praised  for  the  accom- 
plishment of  the  promises  that  have 
been  made  by  holy  prophets  both 
ancient  and  modern  in  regard  to 
the  work  of  the  latter  times.  It 
seems  to  me  that  any  man  who  de- 
sires to  know,  can  know  that  God 
has  introduced  this  work,  his  hand 
has  been  over  the  leaders  of  this 
people,  and  he  has  sustained  them 
up  to  the  present  hour.  He  has 
magnified  them  and  he  has  fulfilled 
all  that  any  reasonble  being  could 
expect  of  the  promises  made  by 
holy  prophets  in  relation  to  the 
work  of  latter  times.  I  thank  God 
that  there  is  in  my  soul  a  disposition 
to  uphold  the  authority  of  God.  I 
love  to  honor  that  authority,  and 
am  thankful  that  at  this  moment  I 
can  say  in  all  truth,  before  God, 
and  this  congregation,  that  my 
heart,  my  confidence,  and  my  love 
go  out  to  President  Heber  J.  Grant 
today  in  just  as  full  and  complete 
measure  as  it  went  out  to  his  great 
predecessor,  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith.  For  I  have  in  my  soul  an 
absolute  assurance  that  God  has 
brought  President  Grant  to  the 
presidency,  and  that  the  spirit  and 


power  of  the  great  calling  that  has 
come  to  him  will  be  upon  him  in 
just  as  full  and  rich  measure  as  it 
has  been  upon  those  who  have  pre- 
ceded him;  it  could  not  be  other- 
wise, because  it  is  the  work  of  God, 
and  God  hath  wrought  this  thing. 
God's  blessing,  and  power,  and  in- 
spiration, and  wisdom,  will  be  man- 
ifested today,  just  as  it  has  been  in 
the  past,  and  so  it  will  continue 
forever  and  ever.  So  hath  God 
said,  and  he,  the  scriptures  say, 
shall  be  true,  and  his  word  true, 
though  all  men  may  be  liars.  ,  God 
help  us  to  love  the  truth,  to  mag- 
nify our  callings,  to  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  God,  to  preach  the 
gospel,  to  win  souls  from  the  dark- 
ness that  is  in  the  world  to  the  truth 
that  has  been  revealed,  I  humbly 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

It  has  been  decided  to  open  a 
new  mission  to  be  known  as  the 
"Canadian  mission,  being  taken 
from  part  of  the  Eastern  states  and 
the  Northern  states  missions.  Elder 
Nephi  Jensen-  has  been  sustained  by 
the  presidency  to  preside  over  that 
mission.  We  will  now  hear  from 
Elder  Jensen. 

ELDER  NEPHI  JENSEN 

(President  of  the  Canadian  Mission.) 

I  hope  I  shall  be  pardoned  if  I 
tell  a  semi-humorous  story  to  take 
the  strain  off  my  mind. 

A  certain  man,  charged  with  a 
crime,  presented  himself  at  the  bar 
of  justice,  and  the  court  asked  him 
if  he  had  a  lawyer.  He  said,  "No, 
your  honor."  The  court  then  said, 
"You  are  entitled  to  counsel,  and  if 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


you  cannot  afford  to  employ  an  at- 
torney, the  court  will  appoint  you 
one."  The  accused  man  said,  "I 
don't  think  I  shall  need  any  lawyer, 
because  I  am  going  to  tell  the 
truth"  (laughter).  I  think  a  great 
many  of  the  men  who  have  been 
my  clients  in  the  last  ten  years  will 
have  to  tell  the  truth  for  a  little 
while,  or  else  employ  other  counsel. 

I  am  deeply  grateful  to  my 
Heavenly  Father  for  the  confidence 
which  the  authorities  of  the  Church 
have  seen  fit -to  repose  in  me ;  and  I 
want  to  tell  you,  in  the  depths  of 
humility,  that  I  feel  altogether  in- 
adequate to  the  task  that  has  been 
assigned  me.  Never  in  my  life 
have  I  been  so  deeply  humbled.  I 
recall  that  a  few  days  after  Presi- 
dent Grant  first  spoke  to  me  about 
this  labor,  a  near  relative  of  mine 
called  me  on  the  'phone,  and  I 
asked  her  how  she  felt.  "Well," 
she  said,  "I  have  got  the  grumbles." 
I  told  her :  •  "I  have  a  burden  on 
my  shoulders  now,  so  big,  that  it 
has  crushed  the  grumbles  all  out  of 
me. 

Today  I  feel  like  saying  in  my 
heart,  as  Elder  Ballard  has  so  fre- 
quently sung: 

"I'll  go  where  you  want  me  to  go, 

dear  Lord, 
I'll  say  what  you  want  me  to  say, 
I'll  do  what  you  want  me  to  do." 

I  know  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation.  I  have  not  obtained  this 
knowledge  from  books.  And  yet  I 
have  lived  with  books  for  a  quarter 
of  a  century.  I  stand  here  today 
and  say  with  all  candor  that  if  I 
had  to  choose  between  forgetting 
the  witnesses  of  the  truth  which 
have  come  to  my  heart  through  the 
Spirit  of  God,  and  what  I  have 


learned  from  books,  I  should  gladly 
choose  to  remember  that  God  has 
told  my  heart  that  this  is  the  work 
of  God,  and  forget  what  I  have 
read  in  all  the  books. 

I  was  deeply  impressed  with  the 
thought  expressed  by  President 
Callis  this  morning,  concerning  the 
fact  that  the  elders  who  go  out  to 
preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
have  been  converted.  I  am  an  ar- 
dent believer  in  the  doctrine  of  the 
conversion  of  the  soul.  A  short 
time  ago,  out  of  curiosity,  I  read 
Ernest  Haeckel's  Riddle  of  the  Uni- 
verse, and  I  noted  that  in  one  of 
the  closing  chapters  of  that  famous 
— I  was  about  to  say  infamous — 
book  the  statement  that  one  of  the 
Greek  philosophers,  years  before 
Christ  ministered  among  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  taught  the  Golden 
Rule.  The  skeptic,  Ernest  Haeckel, 
gave  out  the  inference  that  this 
Greek  philosopher  was  greater  than 
Jesus  Ghrist.  I  thought  about  it  at 
the  time,  and  have  thought  about  it 
more  since  reading  the  book,  and  I 
have  figured  it  out  this  way:  The 
Greek  philosopher,  whom  Ernest 
Haeckel  mentioned,  taught  men 
how  to  think ;  Jesus  Christ  taught 
men  how  to  pray.  Thoughts  may 
bring  to  us  information,  but  prayer 
can  lift  the  human  heart  so  close  to 
God  that  its  evil  and  carnal  nature 
will  be  destroyed.  What  this  world 
today  needs  is  men  who  fight  less 
and  pray  more.  What  this  world 
needs  is  not  so  much  a  political  rev- 
olution as  a  heart  revolution,  and  I 
believe  with  all  my  heart  that  there 
is  only  one  thing  that  can  put  the 
pieces  of  this  distracted  world  to- 
gether, and  that  is  the  power  of 
God. 

We  need,  in  this  world,  what  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  found  in  the 


PRESIDENT  HEBER.J.  GRANT 


119 


grove  ninety-nine  years  ago.  On 
that  memorable  day  that  flaxen- 
haired  boy  stood  in  the  presence  of 
God  and  his  son  Jesus  Christ;  and 
when  his  prayer  was  answered,  he 
stood  forth  among  men  a  veritable 
king.  He  knew  what  the  kings  of 
the  earth  did  not  know.  He  knew 
what  the  philosophers  did  not 
know.  He  knew  what  the  scientists 
did  not  know.  He  knew  God, 
whom  to  know  is  life  eternal ! 

The  faith  that  boy  discovered 
that  day  is  the  only  power  that  will 
heal  this  bruised  world.  The  faith 
that  he  discovered  that  day  is  the 
power  that  will  transform  the  hu- 
man heart.  The  faith  that  he  dis- 
covered that  day  will  take  out  of  a 
human  heart  its  hatred,  and  put 
into  the  human  heart  the  love  of 
God,  the  one  thing  which  will  en- 
noble the  human  race  and  bring 
lasting  civilization  among  the  chil- 
dren of  men. 

My  brothers  and  my  sisters,  I  re- 
joice with  all  my  heart  in  the 
knowledge  I  have  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God. 
Every  time  I  think  about  the  sub- 
ject I  am  reminded  of  a  conversa- 
tion I  had  with  one  of  the  grand- 
est men  who  ever  lived.  I  refer  to 
the  late  Jesse  N.  Smith,  who  hap- 
pens to  be  my  father-in-law.  He 
was  at  my  home  a  short  time  before 
he  passed  to  the  other  side.  One 
evening  he  became  reminiscent.  He 
talked  about  the  things  in  this 
world  that  had  made  his  heart  glad. 
He  spoke  of  Joseph  Smith;  and  as 
he  referred  to  that  great  man, 
tears  came  into  his  eyes. 

I  said  to  him :  "You  become  elo- 
quent when  you  talk  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith."  With  a  grandeur 
in  his  soul  that  I  shall  never  forget, 
he  said:  "Why  shouldn't  I?  It  is 
the  darling  theme  of  my  heart." 


God  grant  that  it  may  be  the 
darling  theme  of  my  heart  and  your 
hearts.  For  our  greatest  heritage  is 
the  faith  and  the  truth  that  has 
come  down  to  us  from  that  prophet 
of  God.  God  help  us  to  appreciate 
this  heritage — "lest  we  forget,  lest 
we  forget." 

God  help  us  to  bear  the  burdens 
which  have  been  placed  upon  our 
shoulders.  God  make  our  hearts 
humble  that  we  may  have  commun- 
ion with  his  Spirit,  in  the  name  of. 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

David  Rees  sang  a  tenor  solo : 
"Hosannah." 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  would  like  to  endorse  what  was 
said  here  by  Brother  Jensen  about 
his  father-in-law.  One  of  the 
grandest  men  I  have  ever  known  in 
my  life  was  Jesse  N.  Smith.  He 
has  left  one  of  the  largest  and  most 
splendid  families  that  I  know  of  in 
any  of  the  stakes  of  Zion.  It  is  just 
such  a  family  as  that  of  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith.  I  have  walked 
more  miles  and  conversed  more 
with  Jesse  N.  Smith  than  with  any 
other  president  of  a  stake  of  Zion. 
He  was  a  regular  encyclopedia  of 
knowledge.  He  read  Bancroft's 
History  of  the  Native  Races  as  the 
volumes  came  from  the  press  the 
way  I  used  to  read  the  New  York 
Weekly  Ledger,  when  a  boy.  Jesse 
N.  Smith  I  believe  was  the  best 
read  man  of  all  the  men  with  whom 
I  have  been  acquainted;  yet,  thank 
the  Lord,  he  felt,  as  Brother  Jensen 
has  expressed  himself,  that  his 
reading  was  of  no  value  to  him  in 
comparison  to  the  testimony  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Really  I 
could  never  quite  understand,  when 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE: 


I  was  a  young  man,  and  the  junior 
apostle  and  used  to  travel  hour 
after  hour,  walking  through  the 
sands  of,  Arizona  with  Jesse  N. 
Smith,  why  in  the  world  the  Lord 
did  not  choose  him  for  an  apostle 
instead  of  me.  He  told  me  one 
thing  that  I  endorsed  and  that  was 
this:  he  said  that  from  his  reading 
and  studying  he  believed  that 
''America  has  produced  two  won- 
derfully great  and  grand  statesmen, 
far  above  all  others,  and  they  both 
came  from  Illinois ;  one  was  Abra- 
ham Lincoln,  and  the  other  was 
Daniel  H.  Wells.  I  remember  hav- 
ing heard  Brigham  Young  say  that 
Heber  C.  Kimball  was  his  prophet, 
and  Daniel  H.  Wells  was  his  states- 
man. 

ELDER  E.  WESLEY  SMITH. 

(President  of  the  Hawaiian  Mission.) 

The  .desire  of  my  heart  is  that  I 
may  have  an  interest  in  your  faith 
and  prayers  while  occupying  this 
position.  When  President  Grant 
informed  me  that  I  had  been  chosen 
to  preside  over  the  Hawaiian  mis- 
sion I  was  almost  paralyzed;  for. I 
know  my  weakness,  but  I  have  faith 
in  God,  and  I  have  a  testimony 
that  this  is  the  work  of  God.  I 
have  faith'  and  confidence  in  my 
brethren.  I  know  that  they  have 
been  called  to  these  "  positions 
through  revelation  from  God,  and 
my  faith  tells  me  that  God  will  not 
call  any  man  to  a  position  in  his 
service  and  not  sustain  and  assist 
him,  if  the  man  will  put  himself  in 
a  position  to  receive  assitance  from 
the  Lord.  I  love  the  Lord  and  I 
love  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  de- 
light in  doing  those  things  that  may 
bring  my  fellow  men,  associates, 
and  friends,  to  a  knowledge  of  the 


gospel.  It  is  my  heart's  purpose 
and  desire  to  go  into  the  mission 
field  and  accomplish  all  that  is  in 
my  power  to  accomplish. 

In  going  out  to  that  land,  I  go 
to  a  field  of  labor  where  I  com- 
menced this  life.  During  the  time 
when  this  Church  was  persecuted, 
when  the  leaders  were  under  great 
distress  on  account  of  polygamy, 
my  father  was-  advised  to  depart 
from  Zion  together  with  my 
mother,  and  they  went  to  the 
Hawaiian  Islands.  There  they 
served  in  the  work  of  the  Lord 
with  that  people.  They  were  there 
in  distress,  and  it  was  well,  under 
those  circumstances,  that  I  was  sent 
to  them.  I  appreciate  the  fact  that 
I  had  been  detained  on  the  other 
side  until  that  day  when,  during 
a  time  of  grief  and  sorrow  and  dis- 
tress, I  could  come  into  the  world 
and  gladden  my  father's  heart.  It 
so  happened  that  when  I  came  into 
the  world  I  had  red  hair.  This  was 
something  new  to  the  Hawaiian 
people.  As  you  know,  they  are 
a  dark  race,  and  when  they  viewed 
the  little  red  head  upon  the  pillow, 
they  called  that  baby  Kananiolaie- 
kaweheweheolanihuli,  which  means 
that  I  was  born  in  the  home  of 
Lanihuli  at  Laie  on  the  island  of 
Oahu ;  and  they  called  me  Kawe- 
heweheolanihuli,  which  means  the 
opening  up  or  ushering  in  of  the 
glory  of  Kananiolaie. 

My  father  was  called  as  a  mis- 
sionary to  the.  Hawaiian  Islands 
when  he  was  an  orphan  boy,  fifteen 
years  of  age,  with  little  brothers  and 
sisters.  He  departed  for  thai 
journey  in  a  company  of  nineteen 
others,  riding  his  little  pony  from 
this  valley  as  far  as  San  Bernar- 
dino, California.  There  he  labored 
in  a  mill,  making  shingles,  sold  his 
horse  and  obtained  enough  means 


ELDER  E.  WESLEY  SMITH 


121 


to  take  him,  with  the  other  elders, 
as  far  as  San  Francisco.  There 
they  entered  into  an  enterprise  buy- 
ing a  boat,  thinking  they  could  rig 
out  the  same  and  depart  for  their 
field  of  labor.  After  they  had 
worked  for  some  time,  and  spent 
their  means  in  preparing  this  boat, 
it  was  condemned  as  unseaworthy. 
They  lost  their  means,  they  lost 
their  time,  and  again  they  had  to 
set  about  earning  means  to  go  ovei 
to  the  mission  field. 

I  have  heard  father  relate  many 
times  how  he  labored  as  a  carpen- 
ter in  San  Francisco,  building 
homes  on  the  sand  hills  there,  and 
finally  purchased  passage  in  the 
hold  of  an  old  sailing  vessel.  The 
elders  took  straw  from  the  manger, 
bedding  from  the  mules  that  were 
being  conveved  on  the  ship,  and 
spread  this  forage  upon  the  barrels 
and  cargo,  and  that  was  their  bed. 
When  he  arrived  in  the  Hawaiian 
Islands,  the  natives  there  took 
kindly  to  him,  and  they  adopted 
him.  There  was  Napela,  one  of 
the  great  leaders  among  that  na- 
tion. He  called  this  boy  to  him 
and  said :  "Iosepa,  my  home  is  your 
home.  This  horse  is  your  horse; 
use  it."  For  four  years  he  labored 
in  that  mission.  He  was  humble 
and  submissive.  In  one  hundred 
days  from  the  day  he  landed  there, 
he  commenced  his  mission  work  in 
earnest.  He  was  able  to  converse 
in  the  Hawaiian  tongue.  Three 
months  practically  of  this  time  was 
spent  on  a  sick  bed,  suffering  from 
break-bone  fever.  He  learned  to 
love  that  good  people  and  they 
loved  him.  This  love  that  was  es- 
tablished in  his  heart,  as  a  youth, 
continued  to  grow  and  develop  un- 
til he  was  released  from  this  life. 
It  was  his  desire  and  ambition  to 
live  until  he  could  .see  the  comple- 


tion of  the  temple  there,  and  per- 
haps take  part  in  its  dedication,  but 
it  was  not  to  be.  Therefore,  I  feel 
honored  in  being  called  to  that  land, 
perhaps  to  represent  him 

As  the  brethren  have  expressed 
themselves,  I  also  feel  to  join  in 
the  sentiment  of  the  song  that 
Brother  Ballard  sings  so  well :  "I'll 
go  where  you  want  me  to  go,  dear 
Lord,  I'll  do  what  you  want  me 
to  do,  and  I'D  say  what  what  you 
want  me  to  say." 

I  might  tell  you  a  little  concern- 
ing the  Hawaiian  people,  among 
whom  I  expect  soon  to  labor.  Then 
you  may  understand  why  it  was 
that  father  loved  them  so  much. 
We  read  in  John  10:16,  that  the 
Savior  was  preaching  to  the  Jews, 
soon  after  he  had  performed  a 
miracle  in  opening  the  eyes  of  the 
blind.  They  ridiculed  him,  made 
light  of  his  teachings,  and  would 
n,ot  listen  to  them.  He  l/ikened 
them  unto  his  sheep.  He  told  them 
that  his  sheep  knew  his  voice ;  that 
he  was  the  gate ;  that  he  was  their 
shepherd.  And  when  he  saw  that 
they  hardened  their  hearts  against 
him,  and  would  not  listen,  for  they 
thought  they  were  the  only  chosen 
people  in  the  world,  the  Savior  tokl 
the"1-  'A«d  other  sheep  I  have, 
which  are  not  of  this  fold :  them 
also  I  must  bring,  and  they  shall 
hear  my  voice ;  and  there  shall  be 
one  fold,  and  one  shepherd."  Then 
he  said  :  "Therefore  doth  my  Father 
love  me  because  I  lay  down  my 
life,  that  I  might  take  it  up  again." 
"No  man  taketh  it  from  me,  but  I 
lay  it  down  of  myself.  I  have 
power  to  lay  it  down,  and  I  have 
power  to  take  it  up  again."  When 
he  told  them:  "This  commandment 
I  have  received  of  my  Father," 
they  knew  not  what  he  meant.  They 
had   supposed  that  he  meant  the 


a 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Gentiles  when  he  said:  "other 
sheep;"  but  he  did  not  meant  this. 
For  after  he  had  been  crucified 
and  risen  and  ascended  to  God  on 
high,-  he  appeared  to  the  othei 
sheep,  whom  he  had  mentioned — ■ 
the  Nephites  on  this  continent.  He 
displayed  unto  them  the  wounds  in 
his  hands,  the  wound  in  his  side, 
and  revealed  unto  them  what  he 
had  said  to  the  people  in  Jerusa- 
lem. He  repeated  unto  them  the 
words,  and  said :  "Ye  are  the  sheep. 
When  I  said,  other  sheep  I  have 
which  are  not  of  this  fold,  thy 
brothers  at  Jerusalem  knew  not 
what  I  meant." 

The  Savior  went  on  to  relate  in- 
cidents to  them  after  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  Church,  after  choosing' 
his  apostles  in  that  land.  Then  he 
said :  "Other  sheep  I  have  which 
are  not  of  this  fold ;  they  also  should 
hear  my  voice."  In  the  38th  reign 
of  the  Judges,  during  the  time  that 
Zebulon  was  the  historian,  it  is  re- 
corded there  of  a  man  named 
Hagoth,  who  was  a  curious  and 
venturesome  man,  that  he  builded 
many  boats,  and  these  boats  de- 
parted off  into  the  mighty  deep,  and 
he  said  the  people  "heard  not  of 
them  again."  They  supposed  that 
they  had  been  swallowed  up  in  the 
deep. 

The  Hawaiian  people  relate  m 
their  history  a  tradition  that  they 
came  from  Kaaina  ka  hiki,  which 
means  an  eastern  land,  endeavor- 
ing evidently,  as  they  did,  to  sail 
along  the  northern  coast,  having 
the  ships  embarked  on  the  western 
coast  of  South  America  near  the 
narrow  neck  of  land,  the  isthmus 
of  Panama.  They  were  evidently 
carried  by  the  trade  winds  and  ship- 
wrecked, so  that  thev  landed  on  the 
islard  of  Hawaii.  There  they  lived 
and  grew    and    developed    into  a. 


mighty  people;  but  they  dare  not 
venture  to  go  back  again  to  their 
native  land,  for  fear  of  destruction. 
In  later  years,  however,  they  be- 
came more  courageous ;  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  was  poured  out  upon 
them,  and  they  endeavored  to  re- 
turn. But  instead  of  finding  them- 
selves back  upon  the  promised  land, 
they  again  sailed  westward  ana 
multiplied  and  populated  the  Pa- 
cific isles  from  Hawaii  as  far  as 
New  Zealand.  The  old  tradition 
relates  how  the  Savior  appeared 
and  ministered  unto  them ;  how  he 
taught  them  righteousness  and 
noble  principles ;  how  they  saw  the 
wounds  in  his  hands  and  in  his  feet ; 
that  when  he  departed  from  them, 
it  was  with  a  promise  that  he  would 
return  again  to  rule  and  reign  in 
righteousness  upon  the  earth,  to  be 
their  King  and  their  God.  They 
look  forward  to  the  coming  of  tnt 
Son  of  God,  earnestly  praying  for 
the  time  when  he  shall  rale  and 
reign. 

We  learn  that  Captain  Cook,  in 
his  travels,  came  upon  that  land.  He 
found  a  noble  people.  Though  they 
had  departed  from  Christianity,  still 
they  believed  in  God ;  they  be- 
lieved in  the  great  God,  Lono,  and 
they  thought  that  he,  with  his  boat 
had  sailed  to  them.  They  thought 
Captain  Cook  was  that  great  God. 
They  worshiped  him  and  looked 
on  him  as  a  God,  but  he  was  guilty 
of  wickedness  and  his  people  had 
the  plan  that  had  been  handeo 
down  through  tradition  to  them. 
His  works  were  evil.  He  broke 
and  desecrated  their  laws.  When 
they  saw  that,  they  concluded  that 
he  was  not  the  great  God,  Jesus, 
but  that  he  was  the  being  from  the 
other  world,  the  world  of  evil 
.smirks.  Thev  thought  he  was 
Satan.  Finally,  during  a  parade  on 


ELDER  E.  WESLEY  SMITH 


123 


the  isle  of  Hawaii,  on  the  west 
coast,  Captain  Cook  was  accident- 
ally injured,  and  as  he  uttered  a 
shriek  of  pain,  and  they  saw  the. 
blood  from  his  arm,  they  knew  that 
he  could  be  hurt,  that  he  was  not 
God,  and  so  fell  upon  him  and  slew 
him.  We  are  told  that  they  cut 
his  heart  from  his  body  and  offered 
it  as  a  sacrifice. 

Later  on,  the  gospel  message 
was  taken  to  that  people.  They  ac- 
cepted it  because  they  knew  it  was 
true.  The  Lord  had  said :  "M> 
sheep  know  mv  voice,  and  when 
they  hear  my  voice,  they  shall  re- 
joice;" and  when  the  Hawaiian 
people  heard  the  voice  of  the  true 
shepherd,  sent  there  with  the  holy 
priesthood  and  the  power  of  God, 
to  preach  unto  them,  they  knew  by 
that  voire  that  it  was  the  voice  of 
the  Shepherd,  It  sank  into  their 
hearts  and  .they  believed.  Today 
you  can  travel  over  the  Pacific  isles 
from  Hawaii  to  New  Zealand,  and 
you  will  find  that  they  are  all  Crk- 
tians,  they  all  believe  in  God.  O.tr 
work  now  is  to  convert  them  to  the 
true  form  of  Christianity,  and  make 
them  Latter-day  Saints,  that  they 
might  have  a  fulness  of  the  gospel  ; 
that  they  might  go  on,  learning 
day  by  dav  the  principles  of  the 
gospel,  until  they  shall  be  exalted 
in  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

I  rejoice  in,  the  fact  that  a 
temple  has  been  erected  there,  and 
I  trust  that  the  Lord  will  bless  and 
magnify  the  elders  laboring  in  that 
field  so  that  they  may  be  inspired 
to  teach  the  people,  to  trace  their 
genealogy,  that  they  may  be  able  to 
find  their  lineage,  because  it  will 
be  a  difficult  matter  to  do.  But 
this  work  can  be  accomplished  in 
the  house  of  the  Lord,  and  many 
shall  rejoice  and  rise  up  and  call 
the  name  of  the  Lord  blessed. 


I  have  a  testimony  that  thi's  is 
the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  I  re- 
joice to  be  in  his  service.  I  have 
labored  three  years  in  the  Hawai- 
ian Islands  as  a  missionary.  The 
past  five  years  I  have  spent  in  the 
California  mission,  serving  there 
under  the  direction  of  President 
Robinson.  I  love  him ;  he  has  been 
a  power  and  a  strength  to  me.  He 
has  encouraged  and  blessed  me.  He 
has  been  to  me  as  a  father.  I  have 
been  in  his  home  and  have  been  as 
welcome  as  if  I  belonged  there.  He 
has  treated  me  as  well  as  if  I  was 
his  own  flesh  and  blood,  and  he  has 
blessed  me.  During  time  of  sick- 
ness and  sorrow,  he  has  always 
been  at  my  side,  and  I  know  that 
the  Lord  will  bless  him  and  honor 
and  respect  him  now  that  he  has 
been  released,  for  he  has  made  a 
splendid  record  in  that  field. 

Yesterday,  in  listening  to  the  re- 
marks of  Brother  McKay,  when 
he  upheld  father's  family  as  an  ex- 
ample in  the  Church,  I  thought  1 
would  like  to  add  a  little  to  what 
he  said  for  the  benefit  of  parents 
in  Zion.  Sometimes  I  think  it  is 
a  good  thing  for  children  to  give 
counsel,  for  T  have  had  good  teach- 
ings all  my  life.  I  have  had  a 
father  and  a  mother  who  would  not 
permit  me  to  go  out  at  night,  un- 
less I  would  inform  them  where  I 
was  going  and  when  I  would  re- 
turn. I  was  not  permitted  to  come 
into  my  home  at  will,  at  any  hour 
of  the  night,  but  I  had  to  give  an 
account  of  myself.  When  I  re- 
paired to  mv  bed,  it  was  always  af- 
ter receiving-  a  kiss  from  my  father 
or  my  mother,  and  being  tucked  in 
mv  bed.  "^hi*  was  a  safeguard 
over  me  and  a  protection.  But  I 
dare  sav  there  are  many  parents  in 
Zion  who  fail  to  do  this.  Their 
children  are  a  law  unto  themselves. 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


They  go  here  and  there  at  will. 
They  take  automobiles,  and  go 
"joy"  riding  during  half  of  the 
night,  into  the  wee  hours  of  the 
morning.  They  come  in  any  time 
they  desire,  go  to  bed,  and  the  par- 
ents never  question  them  to  ask 
where  they  have  been,  with  whom 
they  have  been  associating  or  what 
they  have  been  doing.  My  father 
exercised  a  supervision  over  his 
children,  and  I  think  that  is  the 
reason  why  he  attained  the  success 
that  he  did  in  rearing  a  family  that 
respected  him  and  loved  him.  It 
has  been  my  privilege  to  associate 
with  my  father  a  great  deal  of  my 
life.  During  the  time  I  was  in  Cal- 
ifornia I  stayed  with  him,  and  was 
by  his  side.  Since  I  was  married 
he  requested  that  I  remain  at  the 
home,  and  be  by  his  side,  where  1 
could  assist  him,  and  I  have 
grown  to  love  him  not  only 
because  he  was  my  father,  but  be- 
cause I  know  that  he  was  a  prophet 
of  God.  I  know  that  he  was  in- 
spired of  God,  and  I  looked  upon 
him  as  a  prophet,  and  as  my  father. 
This  is  a  little  word  of  counsel 
from  a  boy  who  has  had  the 
experience  of  giving  an  accounting 
of  himself. 

When  this  life's  mission  is 
completed,  I  expect  to  be  able 
to  meet  my  Father  in  heaven 
and  there  give  an  accounting  of 
my  labors  in  the  flesh.  I  desire  my 
Father  in  heaven  to  know  where 
I  am  at  night,  and  where  I  am  in 
the  daytime.  I  want  him  to  know 
the  company  I  choose.  I  want  him 
to  know  my  associates.  I  want  him 
to  watch  me  when  I  go  to  my  sleep 
at  night,  and  have  his  Holy  Spirit  to 
guide  me  that  I  may  ever  be  found 
faithful,  walking  in  the  narrow 
path,  seeking  to  know  his  will  and 


praying  for  strength  to  do  his 
wilt. 

May  the  Lord  bless  everyone  of 
us  in  Zion  that  we  may  realize  that 
the  youth  of  Zion,  our  boys  and 
girls  who  are  growing  up,  will  be- 
come the  leaders  of  this  Church, 
men  and  women  upon  whom  the 
sponsibility  will  rest.  Therefore, 
it  is  your  duty  to  guide  your  chil- 
dren, to  know  where  they  are.  Do 
not  give  them  too  much  liberty. 
Make  them  give  an  .  accounting  ; 
kiss  them  when  they  go  to  bed  at 
night.  If  your  boy  comes  in  to 
you  with  his  mouth  saturated  with 
Honor  or  tobacco  ,or  with  the  stench 
of  smoke  upon  his  clothes,  find  out 
why,  and  cure  the  evil.  This  is  my 
prayer  in'  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.    Amen,  j 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

T  will  ask  Brother  Ballard  to  sing 
the  song  that  we  have  heard  about 
this  morning: 

Brother  Ballard  then  sang:  "I'll 
go  where  you  want  me  to  go,  dear 

The  choir  and  congregation 
sang:  "Come,  let  as  anew  our 
journey  pursue." 

Prayer  for  closing  was  offered 
by  Elder  Edward  H.  Anderson. 


CLOSING  SESSION. 

Conference  was  called  to  order 
at  2  p.  m.,  by  President  Heber  J. 
Grant,  who  presided. 

The  congregation  sang:  "Praise 
to  the  man  who  communed  with 
Jehovah." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered 
by  Elder  Stephen  L.  Chipman, 
president  of  the  Alpine  stake. 


ELDER  BENJAMIN  GODDARD 


125 


The  choir  and  congregation 
sang:  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANt! 

One  of  our  great  missions  today 
is  conducted  on  this  block,  by  El- 
der Benjamin  Goddard  and  his  as- 
sistants in  the  Bureau  of  Informa- 
tion. We  will  now  hear  from 
Brother  Goddard. 

! 

ELDER  BEN  J.  GODDARD 

(Of  the  Bureau  of  Information.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  trust 
the  Lord  will  aid  me  in  perform 
"  ing  this  duty,  which  comes  to  me 
very  unexpectedly.  I  rejoice  in  the 
spirit  of  this  conference;  my  soul 
has-  rejoiced  within  me  in  listening 
to  the  testimonies  of  my  brethren, 
and  performing  other  duties  as- 
signed unto  rre. 

In  connection  with  our  work  up- 
on this  block,  I  have  pleasure  in, 
stating  that  our  missionaries — from 
forty  to  fiftv  brethren  and  sisters — 
labor  most  diligently,  day  after  day, 
in  meeting  the  strangers  within  our 
gates.  It  is  our  privilege  to  wel- 
come them  to  Zion  and  to  repre- 
■  p----  our  faith,  telling  them  that 
which  the  Latter-day  Saints  stand 
for,  directing  their  attention  to  the 
organization  of  our  Church,  and 
speaking  of  that  which  was  re- 
vealed unto  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith ;  describing  also  that  won- 
derful vision  in.  the  sacred  grove, 
telling  them  of  the  authority  po- 
sessed  by  our  elders  who  are  going 
to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue 
and  people.  We  bear  testimony 
unto  the  strangers  who  know  very 
little  of  "Mormonism"  when  they 
come  within  these  gates,  that  God 
has  indeed  established  his  Church 


upon  the  earth,  and  however  feeble 
our  young  elders  may  be  who  are 
bearing  their  testimonies  they  art 
laboring  in  the  authority  of  the 
holy  priesthood.  We  testify  that 
the  Baptist  has  come  again,  restor- 
ing the  Aaronic  priesthood.  We 
testify  and  read  unto  the  enquirers 
the  revelation',  Section  27  of  the 
Doctrine  and  'Covenants,  showing 
the  great  work  that  God  has  in 
store  for  us,  and  that  the  authority 
of  the  Melchizedek  priesthood  has 
come  unto  us  through  the  minis- 
trations of  Peter,  James  and  John.' 
When  the  strangers  come  here  they 
listen  most  attentivelv  to  what  we 
have  to  say.  Our  brethren  and  sis- 
ters occasionally  have  from  thre<r 
hundred  to  four  hundred  in  one 
group,  who  will  listen,  frequently, 
•  «  'be  testimonies  that  are  borne, 
and  will  eagerly  ask  questions  and 
desire  to  learn  more.  The  spirit  of 
the  Latter-day  work  is  on  this 
block;  we  cannot  stand  under  the 
shadow  of  the  temple,  which  we 
have  to  do  often  every  day,  des- 
cribing the  building,  pointing  to 
the  figure  upon  the  central  tower, 
representing  Moroni  who  brought 
unto  us  the  fulness  of  the  gospel, 
and  through  whose  ministrations 
we  are  blest  with  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, without  feeling  the  spirit  of 
that  sacred  house.  The  people  are 
coming  to  the  tops  of  the  moun- 
tains, they  are  gazing  on  the  House 
of, the  Lord,  established  through 
the  faith  and  the  fidelity  '  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  are  eager  to 
learn  just  what  the  work  in  the 
temple  means.  We  tcien  explain 
the  great  work  that  you  brethren 
and  sisters  are  engaged  in — the  mis- 
sion of  Elijah  the  prophet,  "turn- 
ing the  hearts  oi  the  fathers  to 
the  children,  and  the  hearts  of  the 
children  to  the  fathers."    This  is 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


something  new  to  the  great  major- 
ity of  people  who  come  here,  and 
they  eargerly  desire  to  learn  more. 
Women  call  at  times,  clad  in  dark 
drapery,  indicating  their  breave- 
ment  through  loved  ones  being 
taken  away,  and  they  are  always 
interested  in  the  subject  of  salva- 
tion for  the  dead,  and  desire  to 
know  just  how  they*may  meet  their 
loved  ones  again. 

I  testify  unto  you  that  the  work 
of  the  Lord  is  growing  in  the  earth  ; 
that  a  spirit  of  inquiry  is  amongst 
the  people.  They  are  anxious  to 
know  what  "Mormonism"  is.  We 
are  delighted  to  tell  them  what  it 
means,  and  they  go  from  our  midst 
impressed  with  that  which  we  have 
told  them,  and  they  are  eager  to 
meet  our  missionaries  in  other 
places.  One  lady  missionary  re- 
turning from  the  Northern  States, 
last  week,  told  me  that  in  the  city 
of  Detroit  on  one  street  she  had 
met  nine  families  that  had  been  rep- 
resented amongst  the  visitors  on 
this  block.  They  had  received  of 
our  hospitality  and  were  delightea 
to  receive  the  missionaries  and  to 
learn  more  with  regard  to  our 
faith.  Thus  we  endeavor  to  break 
down  prejudice,  to  remove  bigotry, 
to  impress  upon  the  strangers  with- 
in our  gates  that  which  "Mormon- 
is"  stands  for — fidelity  to" God  an  1 
to  all  his  laws,  sustaining  the  priest- 
hood which  God  has  placed  upon 
the  earth. 

I  rejoice  in  meeting  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  we  shall  be 
pleased  to  welcome  and  entertain 
you  within  the  walls  of  the  Bureau 
of  Information.  I  pray  that  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  continue  to 
rest  upon  us ;  that  his  work  may 
continue  to  roll  forth,  until  his  pur- 
poses are  fully  established  in  the 
earth,  and  to  that  end  with  all  my 


soul  I  sustain  the  man  whom  you 
have  sustained  in  this  conference 
as  prophet,  seer  and  revelator.  Goq 
bless  the  brethren  who  stand  at  the 
head  of  this  Chtfrch.  May  the 
Lord  soften  our  hearts,  make  them 
open  to  receive  the  instructions 
given  unto  us,  and  may  we  have 
a  desire  in  our  hearts  continually 
to  fulfil  every  obligation  placed  up- 
on us,  sustaining  the  priesthood 
and  laboring  for  the  good  of  Zion, 
I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

i 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

(President   of   the    Central  States 
Mission.) 

In  the  mission  field,  I  have  often 
said  to  the  missionaries  that  in. this 
Church  things  do  not  happen  by 
chance  but  by  appointment;  and  I 
add  to  that  the  statement  that  God 
rules  and  reigns ;  that  this  is  his 
work  ;that  he  is  at  the  helm  and 
that  his  work,  established  here  up- 
on the  earth,  is  for  the  purpose  of 
bringing  back  to  him  his  children 
who  are  away  from  home,  out  on 
missions  in  the  world.  I  feel  that 
we  are  away  from  home  in  this 
earth;  that  we  have  been  sent,  at 
an  appointed  time,  into  the  world 
to  prove  unto  the  Lord  what  we 
will  do  under  certain  conditions  and 
circumstances.  I  appreciate  more 
fully  every  day  of  my  life  the  fact 
that  I  have  been  so  favored  of  the 
Lord  as  to  come  into  the  world 
when  his  gospel  is  here  and  his 
holy  priesthood  is  in  force  among 
the  children  of  men ;  when  he  has 
prophets  and  apostles  and  officers 
in  the  Church  appointed  by  his  di- 
vine command  and  under  his  direc- 
tion, so  that  there  could  be  no  mis- 
take, and  that  men  who  desire  to 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


127 


serve  him  might  know  the  truth. 

The  Priesthood  of  the  Son  of 
God  is  sacred,  and  that  man  who 
holds  it  has  been  entrusted  with  a 
charge  that  he  cannot  treat  lightly 
and  enjoy  the  blessings  and  the  tes- 
timony of  this  gospel.  This  is  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  revealed  from  heaven 
in  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness 
of  Times  in  which  we  live.  Men 
have  received  it  by  direct  revela- 
tion; men  have  received  a  knowl- 
edge of  it  in  the  dreams  of  the 
night;  men  have  been  visited  by 
angels  until  there  can  be  no  question 
as  to  the  stand  of  this  Church  of  our 
God  here  in  the  earth. 

A  short  time  ago  I  received  a 
letter  from  a  young  man,  in  one  of 
the  states  in  the  mission  over  which 
I  have  had  the  privilege  to  pre- 
side for  some  time,  asking  me  to 
send  a  missionary  to  baptize  him. 
It  was  at  a  time  when  missionaries 
were  very  scarce.  I  think  we  had 
only  four  in  that  state.  I  wrote 
him  a  letter,  stating :  "We  will  send 
you  the  elders  just  as  soon  as  they 
can  go  there.",  I  encouraged  him 
in  what  he  had  said  in  his  letter, 
telling  him  to  continue  to  investi- 
gate, and  in  the  own  due  time  of 
the  Lord  the  elders  would  baptize 
him.  He  was  a  stranger  to  me.  I 
sent  the  letter  to  the  president  of 
that  conference  and  I  said  to  him: 
"When  it  is  convenient  for  you  to 
do  so,  either  visit  this  gentleman  or 
send  one  of  the  elders  to  baptize 
him."  Shortly  after  that  we  had  a 
conference  in  that  state;  I  had  for- 
gotten the  incident  entirely,  but  the 
'conference  president  had  notified 
the  young  man  that  we  were  going 
to  hold  a  conference  and  invited  him 
to  come  to  the  city  where  we  would 
hold  our  meetings.  The  young  man 
attended  our  priesthood  meeting, 


and  his  tears  flowed  freely.  He 
enjoyed  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  as 
the  testimonies  of  the  elders  were 
given,  until  the  last  one  had  spoken, 
to  a  degree  I  presume  that  few  men 
have  had  the  privilege  of  witness- 
ing. He  told  me  that  he  had  prayed 
earnestly  to  know  which  church 
was  right.  He  said:  "I  made  it  a 
matter  of  prayer  for  weeks,  and  I 
desired  to  know  which  church  was 
right,  and  the  name  of  the  Church. 
I  awoke  one  night  with  these  words 
before  me,  in  my  mind — the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  had  never  heard  of  the 
Church.  I  remembered  having  met 
some  of  the  "Mormon"  elders  sever- 
al years  before,  when  they  left  some 
of  their  literature  with  us.  I  hunted 
it  up,  and  I  found  the  name  of  the 
Central  States  mission  upon  it.  That 
is  why  I  wrote  you  that  letter." 

I  know,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
as  I  stand  here,  that  he  spoke  the 
truth ;  that  God  had  revealed  unto 
him  the  truth.  It  was  an  answer  to 
the  prayers  of  a  righteous  man.  He 
was  away  from  home,  out  in  the 
world,  struggling  for  a  living,  in 
poverty,  but  he  borrowed  the  means 
to  come  to  conference.  The  Lord 
had  revealed  the  truth  unto  him,  and 
he  was  brave  enough,  notwithstand- 
ing the  fact  that  his  wife  told  him 
if  he  was  baptized  she  would  leave 
him — he  was  brave  enough  to  stand 
for  the  right,  to  go  down  into  the 
waters  of  baptism,  and  another  wit- 
ness of  God's  power  was  given  un- 
to the  children  of  men  in  this  dis- 
pensation. 

I  have  witnessed  some  remark- 
able manifestations  of  the  Spirit 
and  power  of  God  in  my  calling  as 
'a  mission  president.  I  want  to  say 
to  the  young  men  who  happen  to  be 
in  this  conference  that  when  you 
are  sent  to  a  mission  or  to  a  con- 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ference  you  must  bear  in  mind  that 
God  rules  and  reigns  and  that  he 
knows  you ;  that  you  did  not  go  into 
the  mission  field  by  chance,  but  un- 
der the  inspiration  and  power  of 
God  you  were  called  by  the  men 
who  'stand  at  the  head  of  the 
Church.  Some  months  ago  four 
young  men  came  into  the  Central 
States  mission.  We  had  received 
but  very  few  elders  for  months 
past,  on  account  of  the  influenza, 
and  a  certain  portion  of  our  mis- 
sion was  very  much  in  need  of  el- 
ders, as  we  had  only  one  or  two  in 
a  great  territory.  I  said  to  the 
secretary  of  the  mission:  "We  will 
send  these  four  men  to  such  and 
such  a  place,  away  into  the  South, 
a  thousand  miles  from  Kansas 
City."  He  said :  "I  believe  that  is 
the  place  they  ought  to  go.  We 
need  them  there."  But  when  I 
thought  about  it,  I  saw  three  of 
those  boys  sitting  together  and  one 
apart,  at  one  side.  I  could  not  get 
the  vision  of  those  boys  out  of  my 
mind,  and  so  I  said  to  the  secretary : 
"Elder  Piatt,  we  will  leave  it  until 
tomorrow.  We  can't  send  them 
out  today  anyway."  In  the  morn- 
ing when  I  met  again  with  the 
young  men,  I  was  going  to  say  we 
would  send  them  all  to  this  certain 
place;  but  in  my  mind  again  three- 
of  them  sat  together  and  one  was 
by  himself.  I  said  to  the  three :  "We 
will  send  you  to  Texas."  To  this 
young  man  I  said :  'We  will  keep 
you  here,  and  you  may  labor  in 
Kansas  City."  I  did  not  know  why 
I  had  come  to  this  decision.  I  bat- 
tled against  it,  because  I  wanted  to 
send  him  away,  but  a  month  after 
that  time,  in  a  priesthood  meeting, 
he  bore  his  testirnpny  and  mentioned 
the  fact  that  when  he  was  a  boy, 
ten  years  of  age,  he  had  been  prom- 
ised by  a  patriarch,  in  his  patriarch- 


al blessing,  that  he  would  grow  up 
and  fill  a  mission,  and  that  he  would, 
be  sent  to  the  state  of  Missouri. 
Then  I  found  out  why  I  was  im- 
pressed to  keep  that  young  man  in 
the  state  of  Missouri. 

At  another  conference  I  attended 
shortly  after  that,  an  elder  bore  his  • 
testimony  in  a  priesthood  meeting, 
in  which  he  related  the  following 
incident :  He  was  put  trading  one 
day,  and  as  he  approached  the  home 
of  a  certain  lady,  she  said  to  him: 
"Come  in,  you  are  the  man  I  saw 
in  my  dream."  She  was  a  Turkish 
woman ;  her  father  was  a  Moham- 
medan. She  had  been  in  this  coun- 
try perhaps  ten  or  fifteen  years. 
She  related  unto  him  how  she  had 
been  praying  earnestly  for  the 
truth  and  the  Lord  had  shown  her 
in  the  dreams  of  the  night  this 
elder;  so  that  when  he  walked  up 
to  her  door,  stood  on  the  steps  with 
that  book  in  his  hand,  she  recog- 
nized him  and  said  :  "Come  in,  for  I 
have  seen  you  in  a  dream." 

I  want  to  say  to  you  again,  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  men  and  women 
have  had  blessings  pronounced  up- 
on their  heads  before  this  world 
was,  and  they  are  being  fulfilled 
here  according  to  the  faithfulness 
of  those  who  have  received  them.  I 
have  lived  in  company  with  the 
best  men  and  women  upon  this 
earth.'  I  have  associated  at  home 
with  the  leaders  of  this  Church 
since  the  days  of  my  appointment 
in  the  ministry  some  years  ago,  and 
in  the  mission  field  I  have  associ- 
ated with  boys  and  men  and  wom- 
en who  have  been  appointed  to 
preach  the  gospel,  and  who  have 
lived  lives  that  give  such  radiance 
and  influence  as  testify  that  they 
are  sent  of  God  and  that  there  can- 
not be  anything  better  on  this  earth. 
The   influence   of   missionaries  is 


ELDER  THEODORE  TOBIASON 


129 


heavenly.  I  want  to  say  to  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  liv- 
ing in  a  precious  time,  and  enjoy- 
ing blessings  that  the  world  at  large 
will  never  know.  Happy  is  the  man 
or  woman  who  receives  a  call  to  go 
into  the  ministry  and  who  fulfils  it 
honorably  and  honestly,  and  who 
works  for  the  good  of  the  children 
of  men.  Many  times  when  I  have 
held  conferences  all  day  with  the 
people,  having  later  to  leave  in  a 
few  hours,  I  have  said  to  the  elders : 
"We  will  go  out  into  the  park  of 
this  city,  as  the  night  is  hot,  and  I 
will  visit  with  you,  brethren ;  we 
will  sit  down  upon  the  seats,  draw 
them  together,  and  I  will  spend  my 
time  with  you  until  we  have  to  sep- 
arate." I  want  to  tell  you  here  to- 
day that  I  have  received  undeniable 
manifestations  of  God's  power.  I 
■believe  the  angels  of  heaven  have 
been  with  us;  there  is  no  influence, 
no  spirit' more  sweet  than  that  man- 
ifested when  those  bo^s  sit  down 
and  talk  to  you  as  they  would  talk 
to  each  other,  ask  questions  and 
say :  "We  are  glad  to  be  here.  We 
love  you.  We  love  the  work  of  the 
Lord." 

I  have  said  to  those  elders: 
"When  you  go  into  the  field  there 
is  only  one  thing  to  do,  and  that  is 
to  work  and  pray.  If  you  will  pray 
in  the  morning  and  pray  at  night 
and  keep  at  work,  God  will  inspire 
you  so  that,  although  you,  may  be 
alone,  you  will  be  able  to  withstand 
the  attacks  of  the  adversary,  with 
the  power  of  a  prophet,  and  with  a 
power  that  has  never  been  witnessed 
by  you  in  all  your  life,  and  you  will 
go  home  again  clean  and  honorably 
released.  It  will  be  not  only  a 
pleasure  to  you,  not  only  a  gift  of 
God  unto  you,  but  you  will  be  a 
blessing  to  the  people,  to  the  boys 


and  girls  with  whom  you  associate 
when  you  return." 

In  my  closing  remarks  I  wish  to 
say:  If  you  fathers  and  mothers 
can  extend  the  time  of  a  missionary 
from  twenty-four  ■  months  to  thirty 
months,  and  give  that  boy  six 
months  more  training  in  the  field, 
you  can  not  make  a  better  invest- 
ment while  you  are  here  upon  the 
earth.  I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  us 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  THEODORE  TOBIASON 

(President  of  the  Swedish  Mission.) 

Beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
am  pleased  to  have  this  opportu- 
nity to  stand  before  you  and  bear 
my  testimony  concerning  the  great 
work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  It 
is  only  a  short  time  since  I  came 
back  from  Sweden,  and  I  am  pleas- 
ed with  the  opportunity  of  return- 
ing again,  inasmuch  as  the  servants 
of  the  Lord  have  seen  fit  to  call  me 
into  the  mission  field.  I  trust  that 
I  shall  be  able  to  do  some  good 
while  I  am  away,  in  bearing  testi- 
mony to  the  restoration  of  the  gos- 
pel of  Christ,  as  we  Latter-day 
Saints  have  received  it.  I  am  thank- 
ful for  the  gospel  and  for  the 
Church  of  which  you  and  I  are 
members.  I  am  thankful  for  the 
testimony  which  the  Lord  has  im- 
planted in  my  soul,  and  I  know  this 
is  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  know 
these,  my  brethren,  whom  we  have 
had  the  privilege  of  sustaining  at 
this  conference  are  servants  of 
God,  called  by  him  to  stand  at  the 
head  to  direct  his  work  in  this  dis- 
pensation and  at  this  time.  I  can 
especially  bear  testimony,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  concerning  our  be- 
loved president. 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  wish  to  relate  an  incident  of 
which  I  have  spoken  two  or  three 
times  before ;  but  I  want  to  bear  you 
my  testimony  that  God  has' shown 
me  that  President  Heber  J.  Grant 
is  the  right  man  in  the  right  place. 
Some  four  weeks  ago,  in  the  tem- 
ple of  our  God,  at  a  fast  meeting, 
the  President  was  speaking.  I  was 
sitting  on  my  seat,  looking  very  in- 
tently upon  him,  as  I  do  upon  all 
speakers,  desiring  to  hear  all  they 
say.  All  of  a  sudden,  President 
Grant  had  disappeared;  I  did  not 
see  him,  but  I  saw  our  beloved  pres- 
ident, Joseph  F.  Smith,  who  depart- 
ed this  life  a  few  months  ago.  I 
saw  the  mantle  of  the  Prophet  rest- 
ing upon  our  beloved  brother,  and 
I  thought  that  this  was  another  tes- 
timony unto  me  that  he  was  the 
right  man  in  the  right  place.  I  had 
never  doubted  but  what  this  was 
the  case — never  in  the  world.  I 
know  the  order  of  the  Church  too 
well  for  that;  but  God  made  mani- 
fest unto  me  that  the  mantle  of  the 
Prophet  had  fallen  upon  President 
Grant,  and  he  was  indeed  his 
legal  and  lawful  successor.  Sev- 
eral of  my  brethren  and  sisters 
have  come  to  me,  after  I  had 
spoken  of  this  matter  and  even 
today,  saying  that '  they  saw  the 
same  thing.  I  knpw  this  is  true. 
1  have  heard  some  of  the  Saints  tell, 
who  were  in  Nauvoo  at  the  time, 
or  shortly  after,  the  Prophet  was 
martyred,  how,  when  the  Prophet 
Brigham  Young  was  speaking,  they 
saw  the  mantle  of  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith  fall  upon  him,  and  they 
knew  that  he  was  the  right  man  to 
stand  at  the  head  and  lead  Israel. 
I  bear  you  my  testimony,  concern- 
ing our  beloved  president, .  that  that 
is  the  case  now :  the  mantle  of  the 
prophet  has  fallen  upon  him.  The 
spirit  of  the  prophet  is  in  his  soul 


and  in  the  souls  of  those  of  my 
brethren  whom  we  have  sustained 
here.  I  can  sustain  them  with  all 
my  heart. 

Some  people  say:  "Why,  you 
folks  are  foolish  to  spend  so  much 
of  your  time  in  the  missionary  field. 
You  are  imposed  upon  by  those  who 
preside  over  you."  I  will  say  this, 
that  when  the  prophet  of  God 
speaks,  I  obey.  I  would  not  think 
for  a  moment  of  making  any  ex- 
cuses or  of  trying  to  get  out  of  any 
duty  or  work  that  may  be  placed 
upon  me,  when  the  Lord  says  so 
and  so  is  the  case ;  we  desire  you  to 
do  so  and  so. 

I  know  that  the  gospel  is  true  and 
that  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation  for  all  those  who  will  live 
in  harmony  with  it.  I  know  that 
in  the  gospel  is  the -only  true  free- 
dom that  can  be  enjoyed  here  on 
the  earth.  The  Savior  said,  when 
many  were  finding  fault  with 
him,  when  many  tried  to  catch 
him  in  his  words,  that  there  were 
some  who  believed  in  him,  and  he 
said  to  them :  "If  ye  continue  in 
my  word,  then  are  ye  my  disci- 
ples indeed.  And  ye  shall  know 
the  truth,  and  the  truth  shall  make 
you  free."  There  is  nothing  under 
the  heavens,  nothing  on  the  earth 
or  anywhere  else,  nothing  but  the 
truth  that  can  make  men  and  wo- 
men free.  If  they  are  made  free  in 
the  truth  and  by  the  truth,  they  are 
free  men  indeed,  and  they  are  not 
slaves.  It  is  because  of  this  testi- 
mony that  is  within  our  souls  that 
we  know  that  God  speaks  through 
his  servants,  and  we  obey,  not  be- 
cause we  are  slaves ;  no,  but  we  are 
truly  free  men,  and  we  know  the 
voice  of  the  Good  Shepherd  when 
we  hear  it,  and  strive  to  order  our 
lives  accordingly. 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


131 


May  the  Lord  bless  us,  and  help 
us  all  to  be  true  and  faithful.  Let 
us  never  find  fault,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  with  those  whom  the 
Lord  has  appointed,  but  let  us  sus- 
tain them  with  all  our  souls.  If  we 
hear  anyone  finding  fault,  let  us. 
take  them  to  task  and  show  them 
the  way  to  go;  and  if  we  will  sus- 
tain his  chosen  servants  on  earth, 
the  Lord  will  sustain  us ;  he  will 
honor  us.  The  Lord  delights  to 
honor  those  who  serve  him  in  right- 
eousness and  in  truth  unto  the  end. 
May  this  be  our  happy  lot,  I  ask  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

(President  of  the  Mexican  Mission.) 

.  I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  I  may  be  able  this  af- 
ternoon to  briefly  express  my  feel- 
ings and  bear  unto  you  the  testi- 
mony that  abides  in  me  concern- 
ing the  truthfulness  of  the  work  in 
which  we  are  engaged.  To  those 
of  us  who  come  from  the  mission 
field,'  from  our  labors  in  the  world, 
it  is  a  special  treat  to  meet  at  these 
conferences  and  to  listen  to  the 
teachings  of  the  brethren  who  pre- 
side over  us  in  the  priesthood.  I 
have  thought  as  I  have  listened  to 
the  inspired  words  that  have  fallen 
from  the  lips  of  the  speakers 
throughout  this  conference,  that  the 
prayer  uttered  by  J.  G.  Holland, 
and  mentioned  by  Elder  Ivins  in  his 
remarks,  has  truly  been  answered  in 
the  men  who  surround  us  and  stand 
at  the  head  of  the  Church  today; 
and  as  for  that  matter,  I  do  not  re- 
member a  time  in  my  life  when  the 
same  could  not  have  been  said  of 
the  authorities  and  the  leaders  of 
the  Church.  I  was  born  in  the 
Church ;  I  spent  my  boyhood  days 


in  Salt  Lake  City,  and  it  has  ever 
been  a  delight  to  me  to  sit  and  lis- 
ten to  the  teachings  of  the  brethren 
of  the  apostles  and  the  presidency 
of  the  Church,  the  first  seven  presi- 
dents of  seventy,  and  those  who 
minister  among  the  people.  I  can- 
not remember  the  time  when  I  did 
not  know  President  Grant,  and  per- 
haps he  never  has  known  it,  but 
from  my  boyhood  days  he  has  been 
an  ideal  of  mine,  a  man  that  I  have 
1ooker1  vmn  as  one  that  I  might 
follow  with  safety.  I  am  thankful 
to  the  Lord  to  have  been  permitted 
in  this  conference  to  stand  upon  my 
feet  and  raise  my  hand  and  cove- 
nant with  the  Lord  that  I  will  sus- 
tain him  as  a  prophet,  a  seer  and  a 
revelator  unto  the  Church,  and  the 
President  of  the  Church.  I  mean, 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  will  do 
that.  I  shall  sustain  him,  and  I 
shall  sustain  the  brethren  associated 
with  him,  and  all  the  appointments 
that  he  makes.  I  am  willing  to 
recognize  in  him  the  mouthpiece  of 
the  Lord,  and  when  I  receive  a  call 
from  him  to  go  or  to  come,  I  shall 
consider  it  ?s  coming  directlv  fro'-n 
the  Lor*-'.  I  can  answer  that  I  will 
go  where  he  wants  me  to  go,  and 
stav  when  he  wants  me  to  stay. 

I  rejoice  in  the  gospel;  I  know 
that  it  is  true.  My  heart  goes  out 
today  to  the  people  who  are  not 
acauainted  with  these  truths,  to  the 
people  who  are  not  acquainted  with 
the  gospel,  to  the  great  num- 
ber of  our  Father's  children 
in  the  world  who  have  not 
yet  received  a  testimony  of  the 
truthfulness  of  the  gospel,  who  are, 
in  a  measure,  in  darkness.  My  great 
r'esire  is  to  continue  to  labor  faith- 
r--n"  and  humbly  in  the  preaching 
of  the  gospel  and  to  teach  the  people 
of  the  world  the  wav  to  live,  teach 
them  the  truth  bv  which  they  might 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


be  made  free  and  the  path  which 
they  might  follow  to  find  a  way 
back  into  the  kingdom  of  our 
Father  in  heaven.  It  seems  to  me, 
brethren  and  sisters,  as  I  have  no- 
ticed conditions  in  the  world,  that 
there  never  was  a  more  opportune 
time  than  the  present  for  the 
preaching  of  the  gospel.  It  seems 
there  never  was  a  time  when  it  was 
more  needed  than  it  is  today;  ana, 
I  do  not  know  whether  I  have  felt 
just  right  about  it  or  not,  but  n 
seems  to  me  that  the  time  is  near 
at  hand  when  the  Church  will  be 
called  upon  to  do,  even  more  than 
it  has  done  in  the  past  in  the 
preaching  of  the  gospel  unto  the 
people  of  the  earth.  I  find,  in  parts 
of  the  United  States  where  I  have 
traveled,  where  missionary  work 
has  been  done  off  and  on  ever  since 
the  Church  was  organized,  that 
there  are  many  people  who  have 
no  knowledge  of  the  gospel,  who 
hive  "ever  had  its  principles  ex- 
plained unto  them.  There  is  a 
lick  of  laborers  in  the  vineyard; 
there  '.s  room  for  many,  many  more 
than  those  who  are  now  engaged  in 
the  ministry. 

My  particular  work,  brethren 
and  sisters,  has  been  to  the  Mexi- 
can people.  I  realize  very  well  the 
odium  and  almost  hatred  under 
which  the  people  of  Mexico  are 
laboring  today,  because  of  the  con- 
ditions that  exist  in  their  country. 
But  T  want  to  tell  you,  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  they  are  the  Lord's 
children  and  the  Lord  loves  them. 
Further  than  that,  they  are  his  cov- 
enant people.  I  wish  to  explain  to 
■-.0-1  this  afternoon  that  the  Mexi- 
can people  along  with  the  Indians 
of  Vorth  America  and  the  people 
of  Central  and  South  America  are 
the  Lamanites.  They  are  the  peo- 
ple- who   are  the   descendants  of 


Lehi,  through  his  disobedient  sons, 
Laman  and  Lemuel.  But  they  have 
the  promise  of  the  Lord  extended 
to  them.  I  would  like  to  read  to 
you  this  afternoon  to  explain  our 
relationship  as  a  people  to  this 
branch  of  the  Lord's  covenant  peo- 
ple; for  I  sometimes  feel  that  we 
forget  that  the  gospel  is  unto  all 
the  world.  We  forget,  some  of  us, 
at  least,  that  the  Lord  is  able  to 
raise  up  even  those  who  are  down- 
trodden and  down-cast,  and  who 
labor  under  a  curse,  as  these  people 
do.  I  wish  to  call  your  attention 
this  afteroon  to  our  responsibilities 
before  that  neople.  We  realize  our 
responsibilities,  pretty  well,  I  take 
it,  with  reference  to  the  people  of 
other  nations ;  but  I  find  many  peo- 
ple who  say  to  me,  in  referring  to 
the  people  among  whom  I  have 
labored :  "Would  it  not  be  a  good 
thing  for  the  Lord  to  wipe  them 
off  the  earth  and  people  their  coun- 
try with  somebody  else?"  It 
touches  my  heart.  I  love  the  peo- 
ple among  whom  the  Lord  has 
called  me  to  labor,  and  I  desire  to 
continue  to  labor  for  their  uplift 
and  for  their  redemption.  I  take 
hope  in  the  fact  that  the  Lorcl  has 
promised  that  they  should  be  re- 
deemed from  their  fallen  condition, 
and  I  feel  a  responsibility  because 
he  has  also  said  that  their  redemp- 
tion should  come  at  the  hands  of 
the  Gentiles,  people  among  whom 
the  fulness  of  the  gospel  should  be 
restored.  Nephi,  in  explaining  to 
his  brethren  a  vision  received  by  his 
father,  said : 

"Behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  the 
house  of  Israel  was  compared  unto 
an  olive-tree,  by  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  which  was  in  our  fathers;  and 
behold  are  we  not  broken  off  from  the 
house  of  Israel?  and  are  we  not  a 
branch  of  the  house  of  Israel? 

"And  now,    the,  thing    which  our 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


133 


father  meaneth  concerning  the  graft- 
ing in  of  the  natural  branches  through 
the  fulness  of  the  Gentiles,  is,  that 
in  the  latter  days,  when  our  seed  shall 
have  dwindled  in  unbelief,  yea,  for  the 
space  of  many  years,  and  many  gen- 
erations after  the  Messiah  shall  be 
manifested  in  body  unto  the  children 
of  men,  then  shall  the  fulness  of  the 
gospel  of  the  Messiah  come  unto  the 
Gentiles,  and  from  the  Gentiles  unto 
the  remnant  of  our  seed: 

"And  at  that  day  shall  the  remnant 
of  our  seed  know  that  they  are  of  the 
house  of  Israel,  and  that  they  are  the 
covenant  people  of  the  Lord;  and 
then  shall  they  know  and  come  to  the 
knowledge  of  their  forefathers,  and 
also  to  the  knowledge  of  the  gospel  of 
their  Redeemer  which  was  ministered 
unto  their  fathers  by  him;  wherefore 
they  shall  come  to  the  knowledge  of 
their  Redeemer  and  the  very  points 
of  his  doctrine,  that  they  may  know 
how  to  come  unto  him  and  be  saved. 

"And  then  at  that  day  will  they  not 
rejoice  and  give  praise  unto  their 
everlasting  God,  their  rock  and  their 
salvation?  Yea,  at  that  day,  will  they 
not  receive  the  strength  and  nourish- 
ment from  the  true  vine?  Yea,  will 
they  not  come  unto  the  true  fold  of 
God? 

"Behold,  I  say  unto  you,  Yea;  they 
shall  be  remembered  again  among 
the  house  of  Israel;  they  shall  be 
grafted  in,  being  a  natural  branch  of 
the  olive  tree,  into  the  true  olive  tree; 

"And  this  is  what  our  father  mean- 
eth; and  he  meaneth  that  it  will  not 
come  to  pass  until  after  they  are  scat- 
tered by  the  Gentiles;  and  he  meaneth 
that  it  shall  come  by  way  of  the  Gen- 
tiles; that  the  Lord  may  shew  his 
power  unto  the  Gentiles,  for  the  very 
cause  that  he  shall  be  rejected  of  the 
Jews,  or  of  the  house  of  Israel." 

We  see,  then,  by  this,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  that  the  mission  of 
redeeming-  that  people  is  resting  up- 
on our  shoulders ;  for  I  testify  to 
you  this  afternoon  that  I  know  that 
the  gospel  of  the  Redeemer  has 
been  restored  unto  us,  and  that 
through  the  instrumentality  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  the  Church 
of' God  has  been  organized  and  ex- 


ists upon  the  earth.  The  gospel 
is  here  and  with  it  the  powers  there- 
of. The  power  of  the  holy  priest- 
hood exists  in  the  Church  today, 
the  right  to  call  men  to  repentance, 
the  right,  the  commission  of  God 
to  man  to  call  men  to  repentance 
and  administer  in  all  of  the  ordin- 
ances necessary  for  the  salvation 
of  men.  I  testify  to  you  further, 
that  I  know  that  an  angel  of  the 
Lord  delivered  to  this  same 
Prophet  the  golden  record  written 
by  prophets  of  an  ancient  day, 
from  which  this  book  was  trans- 
lated, and  I  testify  to  you  that  I 
know  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  Is 
the  word  of  God,  it  contains  the 
gospel  of  the  Redeemer,  and  it 
speaks  of  our  duties  towards  the 
descendants  of  this  people.  Breth- 
ren and  sisters,  just  one  more  word 
before  I  conclude: 

"And  now,  I  would  prophesy  some- 
what more  concerning  the  Jews  and 
the  Gentiles.  For  after  the  book  of 
which  I  have  spoken  shall  come  forth, 
and  be  written  unto  the  Gentiles,  and 
sealed  up  again  unto  the  Lord  there 
shall  be  many  which  shall  believe,  the 
words  which  are  written,  and  they 
shall  carry  them  forth  unto  the  rem- 
nant of  our  seed. 

"And  then  shall  the  remnant  of  our 
seed  know  concerning  us,  how  that 
we  came  out  from  Jerusalem,  and  that 
they  are  descendants  of  the  Jews. 

"And  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
shall  be  declared  among  them;  where- 
fore, they  shall  be  restored  unto  the 
knowledge  of  their  fathers,  and  also 
to  the  knowledge  of  Jesus  Christ, 
which  was  had  among  their  fathers." 

I  sense  the  responsibility  of  this 
call,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and 
I  trust  that  my  ministry  will  bear 
out  the  testimony  that  I  have  giveri 
here  today,  that  I  do  love  them, 
and  that  I  desire  to  serve  them ; 
for  I  know  that  in  serving  them 
and  endeavoring  to  bring  them  to 
a  knowledge    of  the  Lord  I  am 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


serving  him  and  that  I  will  get  my 
reward.  I  am  thankful  to  the  Lord 
that  young  men  are  being  called  to- 
day to  labor  in  the  Mexican  mis- 
sion and  among  the  Indians 
throughout  the  Southwest  of  tht 
United  States,  over  whom  I,  per- 
haps, shall  have  the  honor  of  pre- 
siding. I  would  like  to  say  to  the 
young  men  of  Israel,  do  not  deem 
it  a  misfortune  to  be  called  to  labor 
among  that  people;  it  is  a  grand, 
a  glorious  privilege,  and  not  a  cross, 
that  has  come  to  you. 

O,  boys,  try  to  get  the  spirit  of  it, 
to  live  up  to  the  hymn  that  has  been 
sung  during  this  conference,  and 
believe  it  when  you  say,  "I'll  go 
where  you  want  me  to  go,  clear 
Lord,  I'll  do  what  you  want  me 
to  do,  I'll  say  what  you  want  me 
to  say." 

O,  you  mothers,  let  your  boys  go 
out  with  the  spirit  of  service  m 
their  hearts,  not  with  a  desire  to 
acquire  polish,  to  get  an  education, 
and  to  come  home  and  shine  as 
bright  lights,  but  encourage  them 
through  your  letters  to  them,  to  go 
out  and  to  feel  after  those  who  are 
out  there  who  are  in  darkness,  those 
who  are  hungering  and  thirsting 
after  righteousness,  those  who  need 
the  spiritual  food  that  can  be  ad- 
ministered unto  them  by  none 
others  than  the  members  of  this 
Church  who  have  the  priesthood  of 
Almighty  God,  and  the  right  to 
minister  and  call  men  to  repentance, 
to  baptize  for  the  remission  of  sin. 
I  want  to  tell  you  that  the  man  who 
goes  out  in  the  spirit  of  true  service 
will  come  back  greater  than  the  man 
who  goes  out  expecting  and  aim- 
ing to  get  polish.  We  are  told  in 
the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants that  we  should  not  go  out  to 
be  taught.  I  think  sometimes  we 
should  not  go  out  to  learn.  We 


are  told  distinctly  we  should  go  out 
to  teach.  We  are  supposed  to 
know,  we  are  supposed  to  have  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth,  and  we  are 
supposed  to  have  a  testimony  ana 
be  able  to  teach  the  world  that  by 
which  it  may  be  saved. 

I  want  to  testify  that  I  know  that 
God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  his  Son, 
that  he  came  in  the  meridian  of 
time,  that  he  is  the  Redeemer  of  tht 
world ;  and  I  testify  to  you  further 
that  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  Prophet  and  that  through 
him  the  gospel,  which  is  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation,  is  established 
again  in  the  world.  I  testify  to 
you  that  I  know  that  the  men  who 
have  succeeded  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  as  seers  and  revelators  and 
prophets  unto  this  Church,  are 
indeed  prophets,  seers  and  revela- 
ators.  I  testify  further  that  I 
know  that  Heber  J.  Grant,  who 
stands  at  the  head  of  the  Churcn 
today,  is  God's  mouthpiece  unto 
not  only  the  Church,  but  the  whole 
world,  and  whatever  the  Lord  has 
to  say  to  the  world  today,  he  will 
say  through  that  instrumentality. 
May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us 
to  thank  him  for  a  prophet,  and  to 
show  our  thankfulness  by  obedi- 
ence to  the  words  that  shall  come 
to  us  from  him,  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

(Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church.) 

I  have  very  much  enjoyed  this 
conference  and  the  spirit  of  it,  and 
I  know  that  the  Saints  will  return 
from  these  gatherings  with  a  feel- 
ing in  their  souls  that  the  Lord  is 
with  his  people,  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  he  is  still  at  the  helm. 
I  believe  the  Lord  is  pleased  witn 


BISHOP  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


135 


his  Church  as  a  whole.  I  think  that 
will  be  the  opinion  of  the  brethren 
and  sisters  who  leave  this  confer- 
ence, who  have  been  attending 
faithfully  at  these  meetings. 

There  has  run  through  the  ser- 
mons, the  addresses,  the  remarks  of 
the  brethren  who  have  spoken,  this 
thread  of  thought  that  there  will' 
soon  be  a  great  spiritual  awakening 
in  the  world  and  a  great  missionary 
movement  in  the  Church,  which 
will  go  out  from  the  Church  and  ac- 
complish more  than  has  ever  hith- 
erto been  accomplished  in  its  his- 
tory. I  believe  in  that  thought.  I 
have  felt  that  spirit  and  influence 
from  the  day  that  President  Grant 
was  made  President  of  the  Church. 
The  world  begins  to  see  what  wt 
hav€  to  give.  If  I  were  asked  to 
state  what  is  the  greatest  need  of 
the  world  today,  I  would  answer  in 
these  words :  "The  knowledge  ot 
God."  There  be  lords  many  and 
gods  many.  Men  have  ideas  of 
God  and  godliness  in  multitudi- 
nous forms ;  but  to  know  the  only 
true  and  living  God — that  is  the 
greatest  need  of  all  the  world  to- 
day. It  is  he  whom  we  worship; 
it  is  he  whom  we  serve.  Within 
this  Chur&h  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints — and  only  within 
this  Church — is  the  key  of  the 
knowledge  of  God.  Herein  is  sal- 
vation for  you  and  me,  and  salva- 
tion for  all  the  world.  In  this 
book,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
are  covenants  and  commandments, 
doctrines  and  principles,  which 
form  the  only  league  that  will  ever 
enforce  peace  in  all  the  world. 
Herein  we  are  told  of  the  doctrine 
of  obedience,  and  we  try  to  follow 
it.  We  are  told  of  the  doctrine  of 
community  and  social  life,  and  we 
try  to  live  according  to  those  pre- 
cepts.    The    government   of  the 


Church,  the  government  of  the  peo- 
ple, the  organization  of  the  Church 
and  of  the  priesthood  quorums  sup- 
plementing the  work  of  the  civil 
government,  is  far  better  and  great- 
er in  every  way  than  anything  that 
man  has  ever  yet  known.  There  is 
salvation  in  it  all.  No  man  of  him- 
self can  teach  it.  He  must  have  the 
influence  and  the  spirit  of  it,  ana 
there  goes  with  this  work,  with 
these  quorums  of  the  priesthood, 
with  these  organizations  in  the 
wards  and  branches  and  stakes  and 
missions,  a  spirit,  an  influence  and 
a  power  that  are  of  God,  that  man 
cannot  give,  that  man  cannot  take 
away,  and  of  which  the  world  does 
not  know.  Therein  is  the  key,  as 
we  are  told  in  this  book  of  revela- 
tion— the  key  of  knowledge  of 
God  whom  to  know  is  life  eternal. 

Organized  under  this  leag'ue,  this 
covenant,  you  have  the  true  organ- 
ization from  the  Lord  which  will 
bring  peace.  Oh  what  peace !  A 
peace  that  passeth  understanding. 
It  is  good  for  my  soul ;  it  is  gooci 
for  you  and  for  all  mankind.  When 
this  is  established,  we  will  have  a 
society  extending  and  growing 
where  there  will  be  no  I.  W.  W.  or 
labor  troubles.  Why?  Because  in 
this  league  and  covenant,  the  doc- 
trine is  laid  down  that  the  idler 
shall  not  eat  the  bread  of  the  labor- 
er. Everyone  shall  work  and  labor 
according  to  his  strength  and  his 
ability.  Therein  is  salvation,  and 
no  salvation  outside  of  that.  'We 
are  told  in  this  league  and  cov- 
enant how  we  shall  conduct  our- 
selves in  our  homes,  as  we  heard 
from  Elder  McKay  yesterday; 
what  we  shall  eat,  that  is  good 
for  us,  and  what  we  shall  drink 
or  abstain  from  drinking.  We 
are  told  that  we  shall  retire 
early  and  rise  early,  and  how  we 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


shall  live,  in  order  to  prolong-  our 
lives  and  be  strong  and  healthful. 
The  Lord  tells  of  this  in  this  cov- 
enant ;  for,  as  the  Lord  says,  it 
a  man  is  faithful  in  receiving  these 
priesthoods,  and  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord,  his  body 
shall  be  renewed;  his  strength 
will  be  renewed  beyond  his  years, 
so  that  he  shall  live  to  be  aged 
and  strong  like  President  Penrost? 
and  President  Lund  and  many 
others  that  we  have  in  our  com- 
munity. We  are  told  how  to 
regulate  our  family  life,  how  to 
govern  and  control  our  children, 
and  teach  them  how  to  pray.  In 
all  the  affairs  of  life,  in  all  the 
activities  with  which  we  have  to 
do,  we  may  turn  to  this  book,  and 
here  find  instruction.  Here  is 
guidance,  here  is  direction,  here 
is  complete  salvation,  and  no- 
where else  than  here.  The  author- 
ity of  the  Holy  Priesthood  of  the 
Son  of  God  is  here.  The  Lord 
whom  he  has  chosen,  and  as 
Brother  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
said  yesterday,  a  truth  that  we 
ought  to  know  and  remember  al- 
ways— that  no  man  will  ever 
come  to  the  presidency,  of  this 
Church  unless  the  Lord  wants  him 
to  be  there.    Don't  forget  that. 

Now  there  is  a  great  work  to 
do.  I  ask  myself :  am  I  doing  m> 
share?  In  the  olden  times  I  know 
our  parents  went  through  great 
trials  and  made  great  sacrifices. 
In  the  days  of  the  early  apostles  of 
this  Church  they  made  great  sacri- 
fices. Read  of  the  time,  in  1838 
and  '39,  when  the  Lord  told  the 
Twelve  to  go  over  the  great  water, 
to  go  to  England  and  establish 
missions.  The  conditions  in  which 
they  left  their  families  and  the  con- 
ditions under  which  they  went,  and 
stayed  and  returned,  were  all  very 


trying.  The  sacrifice  that  our 
fathers  and  mothers  made  in  the 
building  up  of  this  country  were 
very  great.  But  are  you  making 
any  particular  sacrifice  now?  Am 
I  making  any  particular  sacrifice? 
I  do  not  know  that  I  am.  We  go 
out  to  the  conferences  and  preach 
here  and  there,  we  talk  to  the 
Saints ;  we  are  well  cared  for.  We 
have  good  beds  in  which  to  sleep, 
and  when  we  are  hungry  we  are 
furnished  the  best  that  the  land  af- 
fords, for  us  to  eat.  I  do  not  call 
that  much  of  a  sacrifice. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
let  us  ask  ourselves  the  question, 
and  members  of  this  Church  every- 
where, how  much  of  a  sacrifice  am 
I  making  for  the  work  of  the  Lord 
today?  Are  vou?  Not  very  much, 
as  a  rule.  There  is  a  sister  here 
and  there,  a  widow  woman  per- 
haps, here  and  there,  with  her  son 
out  on  a  mission.  She  is  working 
hard  to  .sustain  that  son,  she  is  mak- 
ing some  sacrifice — a  thousand 
times  more  than  I  am.  Such  as 
she  are  making  sacrifices,  but  with 
you  and  me,  and  the  rest  of  us,  it 
is  different,  for  we  are  not  sacrific- 
ing very  much.  It  is  time  that  we 
should  get  it  into  our  hearts  that 
we,  too,  can  make  some  .sacrifice, 
we,  too,  can  help  to  do  something 
to  build  up  .the  kingdom  of  God. 
There  is  a  world  to  save,  and  herein 
I  repeat,  is  the  plan  of  salvation,  and 
the  only  plan,  the  only  salvation  for 
the  world  is  here  in  this  league  and 
covenant,  which  shall  take  in  all  the 
nations,  in  time.  "For  it  shall  come 
to  pass,"  says  one'  of  old,  "that 
every  knee  .shall  bow  and  every 
tongue  shall  confess" — confess 
what?  "Confess  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  to  the  glory  of  God  the 
Father."  O,  I  hear  it  said  some- 
times:    "We    have    warned  the 


BISHOP  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


137 


'  world."  We  have,  have  we?  Why, 

since  President  W~~    out 

as  a  missionary,  and  since  Presi- 
dent Penrose  started  as  a  mission- 
ary, don't  you  know  there  have  been 
two  generations  of  men  and  women 
who  have  risen  and  fallen  since 
then?  There  is  a  new  generation 
now,  and  freedom  has  come  to  rule 
the  world  instead  of  force.  That 
is  the  principle  that  has  been  fought 
out  in  the  Great  War  that  is  now 
happily  closing — that  freedom  shall 
rule,  and  that  the  rule  of  force  shah 
never  again  assert  itself  for  any 
length  of  time  in  this  world.  The 
great  German  poet  Goethe  saw  this 
clearly,  for  in  his  play,  "Faust,"  I 
think  it  is,  he  states  it  in  these 
words,  as  I  recall  the  translation. 
"This  ancient  truth" — very  ancient 
truth,  remember,  older  than  the 
world  itself — 

"This  ancient     truth  still  holds  its 
course: 

If  you  adopt  the  rule  of  force, 
And  boldly  seek  your  chosen  goal, 
You  risk  your    own,  your  all,  your 
soul." 

So  the  rule  of  force,  by  which 
the  German  emperor  sought  to 
dominate  the  world,  has  been  van- 
quished, whipped,  destroyed ;  ana 
freedom  has  come  now  to  all  the 
world.  There  are  generations  of 
men  and  women  growing  up  who 
have  never  heard  the  sound  of  this 
gospel.  Cannot  you  do  something? 
Cannot  I  do  something?  Am  I 
not  willing  to  sacrifice  something 
that  they  may  hear"  this  message? 
They  are  the  children  of  my  Father, 
my  God.  They  are  my  brothers 
and  sisters.  Just  consider  what  out 
Father  says  he  sacrificed  for  you 
and  for  me :  "Gad  so  loved  the 
world" — do  you  love  the  world? 
Your  son  has  been  sent  out,  not 
voluntarily    perhaps,     some  may 


have  volunteered,  but  generally 
they  were  conscripted,  but  they 
have  g'one  and  they  have  offered 
their  lives  for  their  country.  Wasn't 
it  a  sacrifice?  It  was,  and  a  great 
one,  even  when  they  return  with 
their  lives ;  but  God  so  loved  the 
world  that  he  gave  his  Only  Be- 
gotten Son  that  mankind  might  not 
perish  but  have  everlasting  life. 
That  is  the  sacrifice  he  made ;  that 
is  the  sacrifice  his  Son  made.  Are 
we  willing,  am  I  willing,  are  you 
and  all  of  us  willing  to  make  any 
sacrifice  further  for  this  work,  this 
great  cause,  this  great  missionary 
movement  and  effort  that  is  upon 
the  Church,  or  will  be,  whereby 
mankind  may  be  saved  and  come  to 
a  knowledge  of  the  Son  of  God? 
The  key  of  that  knowledge  of  God 
rests  with  you.  Men  may  think 
they  know  him ;  men  may  try  to 
understand  him ;  but  by  and  with 
the  organizations  of  this  Church 
and  through  the  authority  of  the 
holy  priesthood,  the  power  of  godli- 
ness is  manifested  to  men  in  the 
flesh ;  but  without  this  priesthood 
— so  says  this  league  and  covenant 
— "without  this  priesthood  and  tne 
ordinances  of  the  gospel,  the  power 
of  godliness  is  not  made  manifest 
to  men  in  the  flesh."  You  have  that 
knowledge.  Shall  we  not  share  it, 
shall  we  not  do  something  and  say 
something  to  spread  this  truth 
abroad?  We  sing  and  repeat  the 
song,  that  we  are  willing  to  do ;  but 
how  much  am  I  doing?  Not  much. 
Doing  may  be  according  to  my 
years  and*  strength  and  ability, 
what  I  am  called  to  do;  but  I  am 
making  no  particular  sacrifice,  I 
don't  count  it  so,  for  a  moment.  On 
the  contrary,  I  have  been  greatly 
benefited  because  of  my  connection 
with  the  Church.  The  Church  has 
helped  me  infinitely  more  than  I 


138 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


will  ever  be  able  to  help  it.  And 
I  see  presidents  of  stakes  and  lead- 
ers of  the  people  in  this  Church 
everywhere  who  likewise  have  been 
benefited  greatly  because  of  the  po- 
sitions they  have  been  called  to  fill 
in  this  Church.  Who  among  us 
has  the  Church  not  helped?  Who 
among  us  all  can  say  that  the 
Church  has  not  been  a  foster  father 
and  a  blessing  in  every  way.  So 
the  Church  has  made  me.  Cannot 
I  do  something  for  the  Church? 
The  Lord  has  made  us,  and  not  we 
ourselves.  Cannot  we  do  something 
for  him  ?  We  are  not  doing  a  great 
deal  yet.    The  Lord  help  us  to  re- 


solve anew  in  our  hearts  that  by 
and  with  the  help  of  his  Spirit  wc 
will  be  willing  to  sacrifice  if  need 
be  and  show  him  that  for  mankind 
we  will  do  something.  We  love 
his  children  because  he  loves  them, 
even  all  the  children  of  men.  They 
are  my  brothers;  they  are  your 
brothers ;  they  are  his  children. 
God  help  us  to  appreciate  that  great 
fact  and  to  live  by  every  word  thai 
proceedeth  forth  from  the  mouth 
of  God,  through  Jesus  Christ  our 
Lord.  Amen. 

Arnold  E.  Blackner  sang  a  solo : 
"O  Lord,  Remember  Me." 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

I  have  in  my  hand  a  little  book  entitled  Abraham  Lincoln's  Don'ts.  I 
wish  to  read  just  two  or  three  selections : 

SAYINGS  FROM  PRESIDENT  LINCOLN. 

"I  feel  that  I  cannot  succeed  without  the  Divine  blessing,  and  on  the 
Almighty  Being  I  place  my  reliance  for  support." 

"Two  principles  have  stood  face  to  face  from  the  beginning  of  time  and 
will  ever  continue  to  struggle.  The  one  is  the  common  right  of  humanity: 
the  other  is  the  divine  right  of  kings." 

The  common  right  of  humanity  has  come  very  near  achieving  a  com- 
plete and  perfect  triumph  in  the  great  war  that  is  now  closed. 

"Teach  men  that  what  they  cannot  take  by  an  election  they  cannot  take 
by  war." 

"Take  all  the  Bible  upon  reason  that  you  can,  and  the  balance  on  faith, 
and  you  will  live  and  die  a  better  man." 

"Never  send  a  wrathful  letter — burn  it,  and  write  another." 

WORK  FOR  A  SUNDAY  LAW  AT  THE  NEXT  LEGISLATURE. 

I  wish  that  I  could  impress  this  sentiment  which  I  am  about  to  read, 
upon  the  heart  of  every  Latter-day  Saint  who  shall  hear  it : 

"Let  reverence  for  the  laws  be  breathed  by  every  American  mother  to  the 
lisping  babe  that  prattles%n  her  lap;  let  it  be  taught  in  schools,  in  seminaries 
and  colleges;  let  it  be  written  in  primers,  spelling  books  and  almanacs;  let  it  be 
preached  from  the  pulpit,  proclaimed  in  legislative  halls,  and  enforced  in  courts 
of  justice.  And,  in  short,  let  it  become  the  political  religion  of  the  nafion;  and 
let  the  old  and  the  young,  the  rich  and  the  poor,  the  grave  and  gay  of  all  sexes 
and  tongues  and  colors  and  conditions  sacrifice  unceasingly  upon  its  altars." 

And  remember  that  God  Almighty  has  told  us  to  reverence  the  Sab- 
bath day  and  to  keep  it  holy.  We  have  tried  for  years  to  get  a  Sunday 
law,  but  up  to  date,  we  have  failed.    The  good  representatives  from  the 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


139 


outside  counties  have  said :  "If  you  want  a  Sunday  law,  you  Salt  Lake 
people  enact  it."  We  cannot  get  the  men  in  the  legislature  to  give  it  to  us. 
We  appeal  to  the  good  sisters  who  have  the  vote,  to  try  and  see  that  no 
one  shall  be  sent  to  the  legislature  from  this  county  or  any  other  county, 
at  its  next  session,  who  is  not  in  favor  of  a  Sunday  law.  (Applause.) 

MORE  SELECTIONS  FROM  LINCOLN. 

"What's  the  matter  with  my  two  boys?  Just  what's  the  matter  with  the 
whole  world.    I've  got  three  walnuts  and  each  wants  two." 

"The  prudent,  penniless  beginner  in  the  world  labors  for  wages  for  a 
while,  saves  a  surplus  with  which  to  buy  land  or  tools  for  himself,  then  labors 
for  himself  another  while,  and  at  length  hires  another  new  beginner,  to  help 
him.  This  is  the  just  and  generous  and  prosperous  system  which  opens  the 
way  to  all,  gives  hope  to  all,  and  consequent  energy  and  progress  and  improve- 
ment of  condition  to  all." 

I  wish  to  the  Lord  that  this  could  be  burned  into  the  very  heart  of 
the  I.  W.  W. 

ANONYMOUS  LETTERS. 

I  have  received  a  lot  of  anonymous  letters,  since  I  became  President  of 
the  Church,  telling  me  a  great  many  things  that  people  would  like  me  to  an- 
nounce here,  positions  they  would  like  me  to  take,  etc.,  to  all  of  which  I 
shall  pay  no  attention.  Any  person  who  wishes  to  write  me  a  letter  and 
give  me  pointers  should  not  be  afraid  to  sign  his  name. 

KIND  WORDS  FOR  THE  GERMANS. 

I  did,  however,  receive  one  letter  from  a  good  sister  who  signed  her 
name,  asking  me  to  say  some  kind  words,  if  I  could  do  so,  regarding  the 
German  people.  She  said  it  was  generally  understood,  among  many  of 
the  German  Latter-day  Saints,  that  I  had  hatred  in  my  heart  for  the  Ger- 
man people.  I  suppose  that  came  from  the  fact  that  a  year  ago  last  April 
I  spoke  of  infamous  German  conceptions,  and  paid  my  respects  to  the 
Kaiser,  with  all  the  force  and  ability  with  which  God  has  endowed  me.  I 
quoted  from  that  same  inspired  poet,  Goethe,  to  whom  Brother  Nibley  has 
referred  here  today.  I  did  not  quote  from  Goethe's  very  wonderful  play 
"Faust,"  but  from  a  simple  little  poem  of  four  verses  which  I  will  read 
again: 

"There  are  three  lessons  I  would  write, 

Three  words  as  with  a  burning  pen, 
In  tracings  of  eternal  light 

Upon  the  hearts  of  men. 

Have  faith,  though  clouds  environ  round 

And  gladness  hides  her  face  in  scorn, 
Put  off  the  darkness  from  thy  brow; 

No  night  but  hath  its  morn. 

Have  hope,  where'er  thy  bark  is  driven, 

The  calm  distorts  the  tempest's  mirth. 
Know  this,  God  rules  the  Hosts  of  Heaven, 

The  inhabitants  of  earth." 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  said  last  year,  that  I  hoped  Kaiser  William  will  live  to  have  these 
words  burned  into"  his  very  brain.  I  guess  he  has  learned  that  lesson,  by 
this  time,  over  in  Holland :  "Know  this,  God  rules  the  Hosts  of  Heaven, 
the  inhabitants  of  earth."  I  hope  he  has  learned  that  simple  truth.  But 
there  was  a  time  when  he  thought  he  had  so  much  power  that  he  was 
going  to  rule  the  earth.  Goethe  closes  his  poem  with  this  supreme  decla- 
ration of  love — a  declaration  in  keeping  with  the  teachings  of  our  Lord 
and  Master,  Jesus  Christ. 


Every  German  who  believes  in  these  inspired  teachings  of  Goethe  has 
my  love  and  confidence,  but  the  Germans  who  believe  in  force,  and  who 
sustained  the  Kaiser,  do  not  have  my  love  and  my  support.  My  remarks 
were  concluded  in  such  a  way  that  I  am  astonished  any  good  German 
would  imagine  I  had  any  ill  will  toward  the  German  people.  I  will  read 
what  I  said  a  year  ago  last  April : 

"In  my  anxiety  to  get  through  with  as  many  items  as  possible  in  twenty- 
five  minutes  I  came  near  neglecting  to  say  one  thing  which  I  desire  to  say:" 

Those  of  you  who  were  here  will  remember  that  I  sat  down  and  after- 
wards asked  permission,  of  President  Smith,  to  add  a  few  remarks,  and 
this  is  what  I  said : 

"I  have  never  traveled  with  a  man  who  impressed  me  more  as  loving 
■God,  and  more  determined  to  give  to  this  work  of  our- Redeemer  his  life's 
labor,  than  did  the  late  Karl  G.  Maeser.  I  believe  that  the  men  and  women 
whom  the  gospel  found  in  Germany,  and  who  in  all  honor  embraced  it,  are  as 
loyal,  as  true,  and  as  patriotic  as  any  other  people  who  have  joined  the  Church 
of  Christ.  The  night  following  my  call  for  a  mission  to  Japan  I  lay  awake 
until  after  three  o'clock  in  the  morning,  and  in  thinking  of  those  who  were 
aged,  and  whom  I  hoped  and  prayed  might  live  until  I  returned,  I  thought 
of  my  own  dear  mother,  of  John  R.  Winder,  of  George  Romney,  of  Karl  G. 
Maeser,  and  of  others  whom-  I  loved  with  all  my  heart.  I  feel  that  the  Ger- 
mans who  have  embraced  the  Truth  and  who  have  the  love  of  God  and  the 
love  of  our  Redeemer  in  their  hearts  are  as  willing  to  go  forth  to  battle 
against  wrong  and  error  as  the  people  of  any  other  nation  who  have  em- 
braced the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

"May  the  Lord  help  us  who  know  the  Truth  to  go  on  proclaiming  it, 
and  bringing  people  to  a  knowledge  of  the  Redeemer,  and  teaching  them  to 
love  their  fellow  men  instead  of  robbing  and  killing  them,  is  my  prayer  and 
desire,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen." 

Now  that  is  exactly  how  I  felt  a  little  over  a  year  ago,  and  I  have  not 
changed  my  opinion.  God  bless  tlje  German  Latter-day  Saints.  I  love 
them.  I  love  the  honest,  the  world  over.  I  expect  a  bountiful  harvest  of 
souls  in  Germany.  I  believe  that  there  are  millions  of  people  in  Germany 
who  have  never  sustained,  in  their  hearts,  the  course  that  was  taken  by  the 
ruling  classes ;  but  it  would  have  been  as  much  as  their  lives  were  worth 
for  them  to  have  dared  to  assert  themselves  in  opposition  to  the  men  who 
were  in  power.  I  hope  the  time  is  near  at  hand  when  liberty  will  prevail, 
when  there  will  be  peace,  as  far  as  we  can  get.it — and  efforts  to  that  end 


"Have  love — not  love  alone  for  one, 
But  man  as  man  thy  brother  call, 

And  scatter  as  a  circling  sun 
Thy  charities  on  all." 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


141 


will  be  put  forth  by  a  League  of  Nations,  and  the  people  will  strive  to  the 
best  of  their  ability  to  bring  about  that  condition.  When  that  time  comes, 
I  expect  a  reign  of  liberty  in  Germany,  and  there  will  be  a  great  harvest  of 
souls  in  that  land. 

FATHER  AND  SON— TRAINING  CHILDREN. 

When  Brother  E.  Wesley  Smith  was  speaking  here  this  morning  about 
the  necessity  of  parents  being  one  with  their  children,  giving  them  proper 
teachings  and  knowing  where  they  are,  holding  up  to  us  the  example  of 
his  father,  I  thought  of  two  splendid  poems  in  a  little  book  entitled  A 
Heap  o'  Livin'.  As  they  contain  some  excellent  thoughts  on  father  and 
son,  I  decided  to  read  them  to  you  today. 

ANSWERING  HIM. 

"When  shall  I  be  a  man?"  he  said, 
As'  I  was  putting  him  to  bed. 
"How  many  years  will  have  to  be 
Before  Time  makes  a  man  of  me? 
And  will  I  be  a  man  when  I 
Am  grown  up  big?"   I  heaved  a  sigh, 
Because  it  called  for  careful  thought 
To  give  the  answer  that  he  sought. 

And  so  I  sat  him  on  my  knee, 
And  said  to  him:    "A  man  you'll  be 
When  you  have  learned  that  honor  brings 
More  joy  than  all  the  crowns  of  kings; 
That  it  is  better  to  be  true 
To  all  who  know  and  trust  in  you 
Than  all  the  gold  of  earth  to  gain, 
If  winning  it  shall  leave  a  stain. 

"When  you  can  fight  for  victory  sweet, 
Yet  bravely  swallow  down  defeat, 
And  cling  to  hope  and  keep  the  right, 
Nor  use  deceit  instead  of  might; 
When  you  are  kind  and  brave  and  clean, 
And  fair  to  all  and  never  mean; 
When  there  is  good  in  all  you  plan, 
That  day,  my  boy,  you'll  be  a  man. 

"Some  of  us  learn  this  truth  too  late; 
That  years  alone  can't  make  us  great; 
That  many  who  are  three-score  ten 
Have  fallen  short  of  being  men, 
Because  in  selfishness  they  fought 
And  toiled  without  refining  thought; 
And  whether  wrong  or  whether  right 
They  lived  but  for  their  own  delight. 

"When  you  have  learned  that  you  must  hold 

Your  honor  dearer  far  than  gold; 

That  no  ill-gotten  wealth  or  fame 

Can  pay  you  for  your  tarnished  name; 

And  when  in  all  you  say  or  do 

Of  others  you're  considerate,  too,  . 

Content  to  do  the  best  you  can 

By  such  a  creed,  you'll  be  a  man." 

Edgar  A.  Guest. 


142 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


FATHER  AND  SON. 

Be  more  than  his  dad, 

Be  a  chum  to  the  lad; 

Be  a  part  of  his  life 

Every  hour  of  the  day; 

Find  time  to  talk  with  him, 

Take  time  to  walk  with  him, 

Share  in  his  studies 

And  share  in  his  play; 

Take  him  to  places, 

To  ball  games  and  races, 

Teach  him  the  things 

That  you  want  him  to  know; 

Don't  live  apart  from  him, 

Don't  keep  your  heart  from  him, 

Be  his  best  comrade, 

He's  needing  you  so! 

Never  neglect  him, 

Though  young,  still  respect  him, 

Hear  his  opinions 

With  patience  and  pride; 

Show  him  his  error, 

But  be  not  a  terror, 

Grim-visaged  and  fearful, 

When  he's  at  your  side. 

Know  what  his  thoughts  are, 

Know  what  his  sports  are, 

Know  all  his  playmates, 

It's  easy  to  learn  to; 

Be  such  a  father 

That  when  troubles  gather 

You'll  be  the  first  one 

For  counsel,  he'll  turn  to.  / 

You  can  inspire  him 

With  courage  and  fire  him 

Hot  with  ambition 

For  deeds  that  are  good; 

He'll  not  betray  you 

Nor  illy  repay  you 

If  you  have  taught  him 

The  things  that  you  should. 

Father  and  son 

Must  in  all  things  be  one — 

Partners  in  trouble 

And  comrades  in  joy. 

More  than  a  dad 

Was  the  best  pal  you  had; 

Be  such  a  chum 

As  you  knew,  to  your  boy. 

Edgar  A.  Guest. 

MISCONSTRUCTION  AND  MISAPPLICATION  OF  PUBLIC  UTTERANCES. 

Some  years  ago  I  preached  a  sermon  in  this  Tabernacle.  At  the 
close  of  the  service,  on  my  way  home,  between  here  and  the  Eagle  Gate, 
six  or  seven  men  complimented  me  for  "spanking  in  public"  Brother 
Abraham  H.  Cannon  who  had  spoken  just  before  I  did.    Two  or  three 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


143 


days  later  some  seven  or  eight  men  were  in  the  President's  office,  and  I 
was  summoned  before  them  and  taken  to  task  for  "spanking"  Brother 
Cannon.  They  were  very  angry.  They  were  all  Republicans,  and  all 
those  who  had  complimented  me  were  Democrats.  Brother  Abraham  and 
I  were  there  at  this  meeting,  and  I  asked  him  if  he  knew  that  he  was 
spanked.  He  said,  no,  he  did  not ;  and  I  remarked,  "If  I  spanked  you  in 
public,  I  must  have  done  it  in  my  sleep.  I  quite  frequently  sleep  when 
other  people  are  talking ;  but,  up  to  date,  I  have  not  learned  to  sleep  while 
/  am  talking.  I  am  not  aware  of  saying  one  single,  solitary  word  that 
reflected  on  what  you  said." 

I  requested  that  those  two  sermons  be  published  in  the  Deseret  News, 
one  following  the  other;  that  neither  Abraham  nor  I  be  permitted  to  read 
them  before  publication.  When  they  were  published  I  was  to  appear  at 
the  President's  office  and  I  would  make  any  apology  that  was  necessary 
for  spanking  Brother  Abraham  in  public.  Brother  Cannon  and  I  read 
them  to  ourselves  and  then  read  them  aloud,  and  we  could  not  find  one 
single,  solitary  word  wherein  I  had  found  any  fault  with  what  he  had 
said,  neither  could  the  Presidency.  So  I  did  not  have  to  apologize.  Do 
you  know,  it  is  a  very  easy  matter  for  us  to  misconstrue  what  people  say, 
and  make  such  an  application  that  it  may  appear  partisan  or  as  if  it- 
were  intended  for  personal  advantage,  in  some  way,  shape  or  manner. 

ENDORSEMENT  OF  THE  SPEECHES  OF  THIS  CONFERENCE. 

I  believe,  as  I  believe  the  gospel,  that  all  the  speakers  in  this  confer- 
ence have  spoken  the  honest  sentiments  of  their  hearts.  I  feel  sure  that 
the  same  may  be  said  of  those  who  spoke  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  the 
other  overflow  meetings,  although  I  did  not  hear  their  remarks.  I  am 
confident  all  that  has  been  said  was  intended  for  your  good  and  my  good, 
and  for  the  advancement  of  God's  kingdom  here  on  earth.  I  endorse  all 
that  has  been  said  here,  by  every  speaker.  I  thank  every  man  to  whom 
I  have  listened,  for  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  that  has  come 
to  him.  I  thank  the  Saints  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  for  their  vote  of 
confidence. 

A  PLEDGE  AND  DECLARATION. 

I  can  pledge  to  you  the  best  that  is  in  me  to  fulfil  ,the  high  and  holy 
calling  that  has  come  to  me,  to  exercise  in  righteousness  the  power  of  the 
Priesthood  of  the  living  God,  which  centers  in  me,  and  to  administer  my 
office  as  the  Trustee-in-Trust,  holding  your  property,  to  expend  it  and  use 
it  to  the  very  best  of  the  ability  with  which  God  shall  endow  me.  I  expect 
to  counsel  with  my  counselors,  with  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  with  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  of  the  Church — the  men  to  whom  the  Lord  refers  in 
the  revelation  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  naming  the  men  who 
are  to  expend  the  funds  of  this  Church ;  although  I  realize  and  know  that 
legally  and  technically.  I  have  the  right  to  handle  your  funds  personally, 
because  of  your  vote,  just  as  my  predecessors  have  had  that  right.  Yet 
I  know  that  in  a  multitude  of  counsel  there  is  safety,  and  I  expect  to  have 
that  multitude  of  counsel. 

Again  I  pray  God  to  bless  all  Israel,  and  to  bless  all  men  and  all 


144 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


women,  the  world  over,  who  are  honest  in  heart,  who  are  prayerful,  who 
are  virtuous  and  who  desire  to  do  good.  I  pray  God  to  have  mercy  on  the 
sinners  and  to  inspire  them  to  repent.  God  bless  you  all,  I  ask  it  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang :  "Up,  awake,  ye  defenders  of 
Zion." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

In  announcing  the  hymn  President  Grant  said:  President  Charles 
W.  Penrose  wrote  this  hymn  at  the  time  Johnston's  army  was  coming  to 
Utah  to  destroy  the  "Mormons."  Apparently  the  army  did  not  make  a 
very  good  job  'of  it,  because  we  are  here.  This  hymn,  by  President 
Penrose,  was  sung  in  many  places  in  England,  creating  considerable  enthu- 
siasm. In  the  London  conference  alone  over  $3,000  were  raised  to  pay  the 
return  fares  of  elders  who  were  in  England;  that  they  might  return  to 
Zion  and  be  among  those  who  were  to  be  "destroyed." 


The  benediction  was  pronounced 
by  Elder  Seymour  B.  Young, 
senior  president  of  the  Council  of 
Seventy. 

Conference  adjourned  until 
October,  1919. 


Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund 
conducted  the  singing  in  the  Taber- 
nacle. Professor  John  J.  McClel- 
lan  played  the  accompaniments, 
interludes,  etc.,  on  the  organ  as- 


sisted by  Edward  P.  Kimball,  and 
Tracy  Y.  Cannon. 

The  stenographic  reports  of  the 
discourses  were  taken  in  the 
Tabernacle  by  Elder  Franklin  W. 
Otterstrom,  assisted  by  Clyde  Ras- 
mussen ;  and  in  the  Assembly  Hall 
and  at  the  Bureau  of  Information, 
by  Elder  Frederick  E.  Barker,  and 
Fred  G.  Barker.  k 
Edward  H.  Anderson, 
Clerk  of  Conference. 


PUIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllM 


I  HISTORY  OF  [ 

|  THE  CHURCH  \ 

I    iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiim  m 

Compiled  by  the  Church  Historians  and  §j 

Published  by  the  Church  g 

IN  SIX  VOLUMES  | 
COMPLETING  THE  FIRST  PERIOD 

"The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  with  g 

introduction  and  notes  by  B.  H.  Roberts.  1 

A  remarkably  low  price  has  been  placed  on  the  1 

History  by  the  First  Presidency  to  secure  the  widest  g 

possible  circulation.  g 

Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Quorum  and  1 

Private  Library  should  have  a  set.  p 

Cloth — Embossed,  Per  Vol.  $1.50  postpaid  j 

Half  Morocco— Gilt  Top,  per  Vol   2.50 

Half  Calf— Gilt  Top,  per  Vol              2.50  j 

Full  Morocco — Full  Gilt  Edge,  per  Vol.  4.00  | 

IIMMI1MIIHUIIM  | 

Write  for  1919  Catalog  Free 


DESERET  NEWS  BOOK  STORE  1 

No.  6  Main  Street,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  | 


III!! 


Two  NewBooks 
Issued  1919 


GOSPEL  DOCTRINE 

Selections  from  Sermons  and  Writings  of  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith. 

The  Melchizedek  Priesthood  Quorums  have 
adopted  GOSPEL  DOCTRINE  as  a  text  for  class 
study  for  the  next  two  years. 

It  contains  700  pages,  with  a  photogravure  Front- 
ispiece and  autograph  of  President  Smith. 

Handsomely  bound  in  cloth,  $1.50  postpaid. 

Get  the  "Guide"  to  go  with  it.   Price  15c. 

THE  VITALITY  OF  MORMONISM,  By  Dr.  James.  E. 

Talmage 

A  book  you  should  read.    Price  $1.50. 


Write  for  1919  Catalog  Free 

DESERET  NEWS  BOOK  STORE 

No.  6  Main  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


