ONE  HUNDRED  EIGHTH 


Semi-Annual 

(Conference 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

October  1,  2,  3,  1937 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  oi  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


PRINTED  IN  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA 


A  THRILLING  STORY 

of  Century  One  of 

CHURCH  HISTORY 

ERE  is  a  new  story  of  "Mormonism,"  told  with  a  com- 
pleteness and  charm  that  will  thrill  Latter-day  Saints 
with  a  pride  of  achievement  and  at  the  same  time 
win  the  admiration  of  the  critic,  be  he  friend  or  foe.  In  a 
COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH,  B.  H. 
Roberts  has  done  a  masterful  piece  of  research  and  has  set 
down  the  record  of  Century  One — 1830  to  1930 — in  a  bril- 
liant appraisal  of  momentous  events.  The  reader  with  a 
sentimental  interest  will  be  fascinated  with  this  narrative 
of  truth  stranger  than  fiction;  the  reader  who  approaches 
the  new  work  with  the  critical  vision  of  the  historian  will 
find  it  fair  in  statement,  authentic  in  fact,  copious  in  detail 
and  sound  in  judgment. 

A  COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH  was 
written  by  Elder  Roberts  at  the  instance  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church,  with  a  commission  to  make  it  exhaus- 
tively complete,  from  the  remotest  beginnings  to  the  close 
of  the  Centennial  Conference  of  April  6,  1930.  The  final 
volume  ends  with  an  account  of  the  Conference  itself,  mak- 
ing the  history  technically  inclusive  of  all  that  happened  in 
Century  One  of  the  organized  existence  of  the  Church.  Thus 
it  is  a  fitting  commemoration  of  one  hundred  years  of  strug- 
gle and  achievement. 

This  monumental  work  is  not  to  be  confused  with  any  former 
history,  journal  or  chronicle.  Though  its  nucleus  is  the  his- 
tory of  "Mormonism"  published  a  few  years  ago  in 
AMERICANA,  running  serially  for  six  years  through  that 
magazine,  yet  this  History  is  NEW — new  in  its  wealth  of 
material,  new  in  method  of  treatment  and  new  in  its  physical 
representation  of  the  book  maker's  art. 

Cash  Price  $30.00 
For  further  information  address  your  inquiry  to 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


One  Hundred  Eighth  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 

The  One  Hundred  and  Eighth  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  October  1,  2,  and 
3,  1937. 

The  entire  proceedings  of  the  various  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  broadcast  by  radio,  through  the  courtesy  of  Station  KSL  of  Salt 
Lake  City,  for  the  benefit  of  the  public  generally. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  at  each  of  the  sessions. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and 
David  O.  McKay. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Joseph  Fielding 
Smith,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  *,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  John  A.  Widtsoe, 
Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Charles  A.  Callis,  and  Albert  E.  Bowen. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy:  Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon 
S.  Wells,  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Samuel  O.  Bennion, 
John  H.  Taylor,  and  Rufus  K.  Hardy. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A.  Smith, 
and  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants :  Andrew  Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  counselors,  Presidents  of  Temples, 
Patriarchs,  High  Priests,  Seventies  and  Elders  from  all  parts  of  the 
Church. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education,  and  General,  Stake, 
and  Ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations. 

Mission  Presidents  :  Frank  Evans,  Eastern  States  ;  Bryant  S.  Hinck- 
ley, Northern  States ;  David  A.  Broadbent,  North  Central  States ;  Elias 
S.  Woodruff,  Central  States;  Merrill  D.  Clayson,  Southern  States; 
El  Ray  L.  Christiansen,  Texas ;  William  T.  Tew,  Jr.,  East  Central 
States ;  William  W.  Seegmiller,  Western  States ;  W.  Aird  Macdonald, 
California ;  Preston  Nibley,  Northwestern  States ;  Abel  S.  Rich,  Canada ; 
Harold  W.  Pratt,  Mexico ;  Orlando  C.  Williams,  Spanish-American ; 
Joseph  S.  Peery,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 


*Richard  R.  Lyman  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  first  session  of  the  One  Hundred  and  Eighth  Semi-Annual 
Conference  was  held  Friday  morning,  October  1,  1937,  at  10  o'clock. 
The  great  Tabernacle  auditorium  and  galleries  were  filled  with  people 
who  had  assembled  from  the  Stakes  and  Missions  of  the  Church. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers,  under  the  leadership  of  Sister 
Charlotte  O.  Sackett,  furnished  the  music  for  this  session  of  the  Con- 
ference. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  opened  the  Conference  and  announced 
that  the  Choir  and  congregation  would  sing  "High  on  the  Mountain  Top." 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn,  the  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 
Edward  J.  Wood,  President  of  the  Alberta  Temple. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  sang  an  anthem,  "Lift  Thine 
Eyes"  (Mendelssohn). 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  is  a  source  of  a  great  deal  of  pleasure  to  me  to  have  the  opportunity 
of  meeting  the  Saints  again  in  General  Conference. 

REPORT  OF  EUROPEAN  TOUR 

As  you  are  all  aware,  since  our  last  Conference  it  has  fallen  to  my 
lot  to  visit  nearly  all  of  our  missions  in  Europe.  We  have  had  a  very 
enjoyable  time.  Statistics  are  never  interesting,  but  I  feel  that  it  is  only 
fair  to  give  you  some  information  pertaining  to  our  trip. 

We  left  Salt  Lake  City,  Sunday,  June  13th,  1937,  and  sailed  from 
Quebec  on  the  16th.  Our  party  consisting  of  Hugh  B.  Brown,  Joseph 
Anderson,  and  myself,  arrived  in  Cherbourg,  France,  June  23rd,  where 
we  were  met  by  President  Richard  R.  Lyman  of  the  European  Mission, 
and  President  O.  F.  Ursenbach  of  the  French  Mission.  We  went  direct 
to  Paris,  where  I  delivered  a  talk  before  the  American  Club  in  that  city. 
This  talk  was  received  very  favorably  and  nearly  all  of  it  was  published  in 
the  Paris  edition  of  the  New  York  Herald 

After  our  visit  in  Paris  we  went  to  Liege,  Belgium,  a  part  of  the 
French  Mission,  at  which  place  we  visited  three  Sunday  Schools,  also 
held  a  meeting  in  Herstal,  near  Liege,  where  I  dedicated  a  new  building ; 
and  in  the  evening  we  held  a  meeting  in  Liege.  The  attendance  at  each 
of  these  meetings  was  very  good  indeed ;  in  fact  at  nearly  every  meeting 
we  held  the  attendance  was  in  excess  of  what  we  expected  it  to  be,  and 
upon  more  than  one  occasion  over  one-half  of  all  the  people  in  our 
audience  were  non-members  of  the  Church. 

PROFITABLE  MEETINGS  IN  SWITZERLAND 

We  held  a  meeting  in  Geneva,  Switzerland,  on  June  30th,  one  on 
July  1st  in  Neuchatel,  Switzerland.    The  branches  in  all  these  places, 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


that  is,  at  Liege,  Geneva,  and  Neuchatel,  are  a  part  of  the  French 
Mission.  From  Neuchatel  President  Ursenbach  returned  to  headquarters 
in  Liege,  and  President  Philemon  M.  Kelly  of  the  Swiss-German  Mission 
met  our  party  at  Neuchatel,  and  accompanied  us  through  the  Swiss- 
German  Mission. 

We  held  a  meeting  in  Bern,  at  which  there  was  a  large  attendance, 
as  I  remember  it,  over  400  people.  The  following  day  a  brief  meeting 
was  held  at  Interlaken,  as  we  were  passing  through  that  city  to  take  a  trip 
on  the  cog  railroad  to  see  the  wonderful  Alps.  Never  before  at  any 
time  have  I  been  able  to  get  such  a  magnificent  view  of  the  Alps  as 
I  did  on  this  occasion.  The  clouds  disappeared  just  before  we  reached 
the  highest  point  on  the  railroad,  and  we  could  see  five  or  six  of  those 
great  towering  mountains,  covered  with  snow.  When  we  made  the  return 
trip  the  clouds  covered  the  tops  of  the  mountains,  so  that  we  were  unable 
to  see  them.  We  were  very  grateful  for  that  wonderful,  magnificent 
sight,  second  only  of  course  to  the  Grand  Canyon  of  the  Colorado. 

On  July  4th  meetings  were  held  in  the  morning  and  in  the  after- 
noon at  Basel.  Three  or  four  hundred  people  attended  each  of  these 
meetings.  Tuesday,  July  6th,  we  held  a  meeting  in  Zurich,  Switzerland, 
and  there  were  also  over  400  people,  as  I  recall  it,  at  this  service 

CORDIAL  RECEPTION  IN  CZECHOSLOVAKIA 

Services  were  held  in  Frankf  urt-on-Main,  Germany,  and  there  were 
more  than  900  people  in  attendance  at  this  meeting.  This  was  the 
last  meeting  that  we  held  in  the  Swiss-German  Mission.  From  Frank 
furt  we  went  to  Prague,  Czechoslovakia,  by  way  of  Nuremburg,  at 
which  latter  place  we  were  met  by  President  Wallace  F.  Toronto,  and 
we  held  a  meeting  with  the  Saints  and  friends  in  Prague.  The  hall  in 
which  we  held  the  meeting  was  crowded,  and  many  people  were  standing 
up  during  the  entire  session.  While  in  Prague  we  visited  the  buildings 
that  have  been  erected  in  that  city  for  the  benefit  of  feeble-minded  chil- 
dren, those  who  are  under-nourished,  and  the  old  people,  and  it  was  the 
most  wonderful  exhibit  of  fine,  modern  buildings  and  efficient  work 
along  the  line  of  taking  care  of  the  unfortunate  that  I  have  ever  had  the 
privilege  of  visiting.  The  lady  in  charge  spent  three  or  four  hours  with 
us  in  visiting  all  of  the  places  of  interest  there.  These  homes  are  named 
after  the  first  president  of  the  Republic,  Mr.  Masaryk.  We  were 
received  in  a  very  cordial  way  by  the  officials  of  the  Republic  and  they 
expressed  regret  that  the  President  of  the  Republic  was  absent,  also 
that  President  Masaryk,  the  founder  of  the  Republic  at  the  conclusion 
of  the  great  World  War,  was  away. 

LIBERTY  IN  GERMANY 

On  the  following  day,  July  10,  in  company  with  President  Toronto 
and  wife  we  left  for  Dresden,  Germany,  where  we  held  a  fine  meeting, 
with  over  600  people  in  attendance."  Here  we  met  Elder  Roy  A.  Welker, 
the  president  of  the  German-Austrian  Mission,  who,  by  the  way,  has 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


filled  a  most  satisfactory  mission,  following  the  very  successful  presidency 
of  Elder  Oliver  H.  Budge,  of  Cache  Valley. 

On  July  14th  we  held  a  meeting  in  Breslau,  and  from  Breslau  we 
went  to  Berlin,  in  which  latter  city  we  visited  three  Sunday  Schools,  and 
in  the  evening  held  a  meeting  in  a  large  auditorium,  where  there  were 
over  1,100  people  present,  and  some  of  them  stood  up  during  the  entire 
session.  We  were  assured  that  over  two-thirds  of  that  audience  were 
non-members  of  the  Church. 

One  thing  that  was  very  pleasing  to  us  was  that  we  had  perfect 
liberty  in  the  holding  of  our  meetings  in  Germany,  notwithstanding  the 
fact  that  more  than  thirty  different  denominations  have  been  prohibited 
from  preaching  there. 

I  thought  it  was  very  remarkable  that  we  should  have  the  privilege 
of  holding  meetings  with  the  people  of  Germany. 

I  learned  that  upon  one  occasion  our  Elders  were  prevented  by 
the  officials  from  preaching  at  a  meeting.  The  officials  said:  "You 
have  no  right  here,  you  must  not  preach." 

The  Elders  said:  "We  have  not  been  prohibited  from  holding 
meetings  and  preaching." 

The  officers  said:  "We  know  better.  You  will  have  to  stop  and 
we  will  bring  you  the  evidence  that  you  are  not  permitted  to  preach." 

They  came  back  and  said:  "We  could  not  find  the  word  Mormon 
nor  the  name  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  on  the 
prohibited  list." 

From  Berlin  our  party  went  to  London.  Brother  Richard  R. 
Lyman  was  with  us  until  the  time  when  we  reached  Dresden,  but  as 
he  was  advertised  to  deliver  a  speech  in  London  on  World  Peace,  he 
returned  to  London  and  was  not  with  us  at  the  meetings  held  in  Dresden, 
Breslau  and  Berlin.  The  various  Mission  Presidents  were  with  us  at 
the  meetings  held  in  their  particular  missions,  namely :  Presidents  Kelly, 
Welker,  Ursenbach,  and  Toronto,  all  of  whom  have  made  very  fine 
records  in  presiding  over  the  various  missions  on  the  Continent  and  have 
made  friends  of  many  leading  officials  in  all  of  those  countries,  and 
stand  well  with  them. 

BUILDINGS  DEDICATED  IN  GREAT  BRITAIN 

On  July  20th  we  held  a  meeting  in  Liverpool,  England,  at  which  I 
dedicated  a  building  that  we  have  purchased  there  that  is  to  be  remodeled 
and  used  as  a  chapel. 

On  July  21st  we  held  a  meeting  in  Burnley  and  I  dedicated  a  Church 
building  there. 

July  22nd  we  held  a  meeting  in  the  Bradford  Branch,  and  I  dedicated 
the  meeting  house.  At  this  meeting  there  were  between  300  and  350 
people  in  attendance.  They  have  a  very  nice  Church  building  and  quite 
a  few  of  those  who  were  present  at  the  meeting  were  non-members  of 
the  Church.  There  was  a  very  small  percentage  of  non-members,  how- 
ever, in  comparison  with  other  meetings  that  we  held. 

Sunday,  July  25,  we  held  meetings  in  the  London  South  and  the 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


London  North  Branches,  and  a  Church  building  was  dedicated  in  each 
of  these  places.  We  have  a  very  nice,  expensive  dwelling  in  the  South 
Branch,  which  has  been  remodeled  to  answer  our  purpose  as  a  meeting 
place.  In  the  North  Branch  we  have  a  new  chapel  that  we  have  erected 
that  is  very  comfortable  and  answers  our  needs  very  well. 

On  the  26th  of  July  we  visited  Wales  and  held  a  meeting  at  Merthyr 
Tydfil,  where  a  little  Church  building  was  dedicated.  The  attendance 
at  this  meeting  was  approximately  100  people.  There  are  very  few  of 
our  people  in  Merthyr  Tydfil,  but  those  we  have  there  were  very  grateful 
to  have  a  little  meeting  house  of  their  own  instead  of  renting  a  hall. 

CENTENNIAL  CELEBRATION  IN  PRESTON  AND  ROCHDALE 

On  July  30  our  party  visited  Vauxhall  Chapel  in  Preston,  where 
Elder  Heber  C.  Kimball  and  his  associates  delivered  the  first  sermons 
that  were  preached  in  Great  Britain  in  this  dispensation.  It  was  at  that 
time  that  the  Gospel  was  introduced  in  Great  Britain. 

We  visited  the  place  where  the  Cock  Pit  was  located,  although  it 
has  now  disappeared  and  there  is  merely  a  hole  in  the  ground  where 
the  Cock  Pit  once  stood.  The  same  afternoon  services  were  held  near 
the  River  Ribble,  where  the  first  British  converts  were  baptized.  Really 
and  truly,  I  feel  a  good  deal  like  the  old  lady  who  had  been  attending  Fast 
meetings  for  twenty  or  thirty  years  but  had  never  had  sufficient  courage 
to  bear  her  testimony.  Finally  one  day  she  got  up  and  bore  her  testimony 
and  when  she  came  home  she  said:  "We  had  the  finest  Fast  meeting 
today  that  I  have  ever  attended."  The  question  was  asked:  "Who 
spoke?"  She  answered:  "I  did." 

I  feel  a  little  that  way  myself.  And  I  know  that  Brother  Clark 
and  I  and  the  other  speakers  enjoyed  talking  to  the  Saints  there  as- 
sembled. We  had  really  a  spiritual  feast  upon  that  occasion,  and  there 
was  no  one  who  captured  the  audience  more  completely  than  did  Sister 
Fox,  the  president  of  the  Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Asso- 
ciations of  our  Church. 

On  July  31  we  attended  a  baseball  game  between  the  Rochdale 
team  consisting  of  Mormon  missionaries  and  a  Liverpool  team.  About 
3,000  people  witnessed  the  game.  The  missionaries  had  a  very  easy 
time  in  winning  over  their  opponents.  Really  it  gave  me  a  great  thrill 
to  watch  the  game.  It  took  me  back  to  my  boyhood  days  when  I  played 
in  the  nine  that  won  the  championship  of  the  Territory  of  Utah,  and  I 
have  never  played  since.  I  decided  to  quit  while  my  credit  was  good. 
It  thrilled  me  to  hear  that  audience  cheering  and  shouting,  "Saints! 
Saints!  Saints!" 

I  confess  I  was  greatly  pleased.  It  is  a  good  thing  to  have  a  fine 
lot  of  boys  playing  ball  and  making  friends.  The  people  who  were 
present  were  principally  non-members  of  the  Church 

On  the  evening  of  July  31st  there  was  presented  a  very  beautiful 
pageant  by  the  missionaries  and  Saints  in  the  Town  Hall  of  Rochdale. 
More  than  800  people  were  present  and  hundreds  were  turned  away.  I 
assure  you  that  it  was  a  very  creditable  pageant  indeed,  a  beautiful  pres- 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


entation.  I  was  astonished  at  the  splendid  way  in  which  the  pageant 
was  presented,  considering  the  fact  that  those  who  participated  did  not 
have  the  time  to  have  a  rehearsal. 

There  are  about  6,000  people  in  the  British  Isles  belonging  to  the 
Church,  and  there  is  many  a  stake- — in  fact  sometimes  two  stakes  adjoin- 
ing each  other,  here  at  home,  in  which  there  would  be  more  than  twenty 
thousand  people,  who  do  not  produce  pageants  that  are  better  than 
was  that  one.   It  was  a  great  credit  to  the  people. 

There  was  such  an  appeal  from  those  who  could  not  get  into  the 
building  to  see  the  pageant  that  it  was  repeated  Sunday  night,  although 
somewhat  abbreviated. 

The  meetings  that  were  held  in  the  Town  Hall  in  Rochdale  on 
Sunday  were  very  wonderful  indeed.  The  Lord  was  very  good  to  all 
those  who  spoke.  The  speakers  at  these  meetings,  in  addition  to  myself, 
were  President  Clark,  Elder  Richard  R.  Lyman,  Elder  Joseph  J.  Cannon, 
Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown,  Elders  George  D.  Pyper  and  Arthur  Winter, 
Sister  Ruth  May  Fox  and  others.  The  same  afternoon  we  dedicated 
a  small  chapel  at  Rochdale. 

On  the  following  day,  August  2nd,  some  auxiliary  meetings  were 

held. 

VISITS  HOLLAND 

On  August  7th  we  visited  the  Scout  jamboree  in  Holland.  The 
party  consisted  of  myself,  my  daughter,  Mrs.  Lucy  G.  Cannon,  Joseph 
J.  Cannon  and  wife,  Elder  Richard  R.  Lyman,  and  Joseph  Anderson. 
We  left  London  on  August  6th  for  Holland,  and  were  met  at  Rotterdam 
by  Brother  Franklin  J.  Murdock  who  is  the  President  of  the  Netherlands 
Mission.  At  the  Scout  jamboree  we  were  very  cordially  received  by 
Chief  Scout  Executive  James  E.  West.  Since  returning  home  I  have 
received  a  letter  from  Mr.  West,  expressing  the  deep  appreciation  of 
himself  and  associates  for  our  having  lent  them,  as  they  put  it,  part  of 
the  time  of  Brother  Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  who  did  a  very  fine  work,  and 
had  an  important  position  at  the  jamboree. 

Sunday,  August  8,  we  held  a  meeting  in  Amsterdam,  and  in  the 
evening  of  the  same  day  held  a  meeting  in  Utrecht.  On  August  11th 
we  held  a  meeting  in  Rotterdam.  All  of  these  meetings  were  very  well 
attended,  and  among  those  present  were  many  non-members  of  the 
Church.  We  subsequently  authorized  by  telegrams  signed  by  myself 
and  Brother  Richard  R.  Lyman,  the  sale  of  our  mission  headquarters 
in  Rotterdam  for  14,000  guilders,  and  the  purchase  of  a  building  at  the 
Hague  for  12,000  guilders.  Our  new  quarters  are  on  a  very  fine  resi- 
dential street,  and  the  property  cost  something  more  than  40,000  guilders. 
The  building  is  in  a  very  fine  state  of  repair.  It  was  built  by  the  Seventh 
Day  Adventist  Church  and  is  a  creditable  place  for  our  mission  head- 
quarters in  Holland,  for  which  we  are  very  grateful. 

Our  party  went  from  Rotterdam,  Holland,  to  Hamburg,  Germany, 
where  we  were  met  by  Presidents  Philemon  M.  Kelly,  Thomas  E.  McKay 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


and  Alfred  C.  Rees.  A  meeting  was  held  in  Hamburg  the  night  of 
August  13th,  at  which  there  were  more  than  600  people  in  attendance. 

EXPERIENCES  IN  SCANDINAVIA 

We  held  meetings  in  Esbjerg,  Denmark,  Sunday,  August  13th,  at 
which  in  the  afternoon,  the  Esbjerg  Branch's  new  Church  building  was 
dedicated.  At  all  three  of  the  meetings  held  in  Esbjerg  the  attendance 
was  large,  particularly  in  the  evening.  .  While  in  Denmark  the  party  was 
accompanied  by  President  Alma  L.  Petersen  of  the  Danish  Mission. 
Sister  Clarissa  Beesley  joined  us  at  Esbjerg,  and  accompanied  us  on  our 
tour  of  the  Scandinavian  Missions. 

We  held  a  meeting  in  Copenhagen,  where  there  were  nearly  500  in 
attendance.  Brother  Oscar  A.  Kirkham  was  also  present  at  this  meeting 
and  at  Stockholm.  During  our  tour  of  the  Swedish  Mission  we  were 
accompanied  by  President  Gustive  O.  Larson. 

The  first  meeting  was  held  in  Malmo  on  August  19,  and  there  were 
between  two  and  three  hundred  people  in.  attendance.  Meetings  were 
held  in  Stockholm  Sunday,  August  22,  which  were  very  well  attended, 
nearly  all  present  being  our  own  people.  There  were  between  three 
and  four  hundred  people  present  at  each  of  these  meetings.  We  then 
held  a  meeting  in  Goteberg,  Sweden,  where  our  party  was  met  by  Presi- 
dent A.  Richard  Petersen  of  the  Norwegian  Mission,  who  accompanied  us 
on  our  tour  of  Norway.  At  the  meeting  held  in  Oslo,  on  August  26,  there 
were  nearly  500  people  present. 

In  Bergen  on  Sunday,  August  29,  we  held  two  meetings,  one  in  the 
morning  and  one  in  the  evening,  and  at  the  evening  meeting  there  were 
more  than  600  people  in  attendance — fully  two-thirds  of  those  who  were 
present  being  non-members  of  the  Church. 

I  am  sure  that  there  were  in  the  building  fully  100  people  who  could 
not  get  seats  and  they  remained  standing,  as  far  as  I  could  judge,  without 
any  of  them  going  out  during  the  entire  service.  After  the  close  of  the 
meeting  the  choir  sang  three  very  beautiful  selections.  One  was  par- 
ticularly beautiful;  I  cannot  recall  the  name  of  it,  but  we  all  decided 
that  the  singing  of  it  on  this  occasion  was  better  and  sweeter  than  we 
had  ever  heard  it  sung  before. 

I  am  very  pleased  to  tell  you  that  Evan  Stephens'  anthems  were  sung 
in  nearly  all  of  the  places  we  visited.  They  have  been  translated  into 
the  various  languages  and  we  enjoyed  them  very  much,  indeed.  In  one 
conference  three  of  Brother  Stephens'  anthems  were  sung.  I  feel  that 
we  owe  a  very  great  debt  of  gratitude  to  men  like  Evan  Stephens,  George 
Careless,  Ebenezer  Beesley,  Joseph  J.  Daynes,  and  others  who  have 
furnished  us  the  music  for  our  beautiful  hymns.  I  rejoice  in  listening 
to  these  musical  selections. 

Brother  Joseph  J.  Cannon,  who  has  just  been  released  from  the 
presidency  of  the  British  Mission,  after  having  filled  a  very  fine  mission 
and  was  succeeded  by  Brother  Hugh  B.  Brown  at  the  time  we  left  on 
this  trip  to  visit  Holland  and  the  Scandinavian  countries — to  our  aston- 
ishment was  able  to  speak  the  Swedish  language  to  the  people,  and 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


they  assured  us  that  he  spoke  good  Swedish.  We  thought  this  was  very 
remarkable,  seeing  that  it  had  been  about  35  or  38  years  since  he  first 
went  there  and  filled  a  mission  of  nearly  three  years. 

We  held  a  number  of  M.  I.  A.  meetings  in  addition  to  the  regular 
meetings,  and  I  met  with  the  missionaries  many  times  in  the  different 
missions  where  only  the  missionaries  and  the  mission  presidents  were 
present. 

The  party  returned  by  steamship  from  Bergen,  Norway,  to  London 
by  way  of  Newcastle,  leaving  Bergen  August  30.  The  weather  was  all 
right  but  the  ship  rocked  a  little  and  I  enjoyed  lying  in  my  bed  during 
the  trip  from  Bergen  to  Newcastle. 

We  sailed  for  home  on  September  4,  arriving  here  on  Sunday,  the 
12th — -just  13  weeks  from  the  Sunday  we  left  on  our  trip. 

IMPRESSED  BY  CHANGE  IN  ATTITUDE 

The  thing  that  impressed  me  more  profoundly  on  this  mission  than 
anything  else  was  the  marvelous  change  that  has  come  about  in  the 
attitude  of  the  people  regarding  the  Latter-day  Saints.  When  I  was  in 
Europe  30-odd  years  ago — -it  will  be  31  years  on  Christmas  day  since  I 
returned — during  my  entire  three  years  in  the  British  Isles  I  never 
succeeded  in  getting  a  single  solitary  article  published  in  the  newspapers. 
Some  of  the  vilest,  most  wicked,  obscene,  terrible  things  were  published 
regarding  us,  but  those  in  charge  of  the  press  positively  refused  to  listen 
to  anything  we  had  to  say 

I  was  assured  while  on  this  trip  that  we  had  favorable  newspaper 
notices  in  Germany,  Switzerland,  Czechoslovakia,  in  Holland  and  in 
Belgium.  No  criticism  of  any  kind  or  description,  just  fine  notices 
regarding  our  meetings,  and  in  some  cases  the  notices  in  the  papers  in  the 
British  Isles  were  of  such  a  character  that  if  we  had  had  the  privilege 
of  writing  them  ourselves  we  could  not  have  written  anything  that 
would  have  pleased  us  better.  As  near  as  I  could  judge  not  a  single  article 
was  written  during  our  entire  trip  but  what  was  intended  to  give  a  fair, 
honorable  and  splendid  report  of  our  people.  I  rejoice  in  these  things. 
It  is  such  a  marvelous  change  from  the  spirit  of  animosity  and  almost 
hatred  that  I  found  among  newspaper  men  that  I  came  in  contact  with 
over  thirty  years  ago 

As  one  illustration,  I  received  a  letter  from  the  managing  man  of 
Ramsden  and  Company,  way  back  in  the  early  days  before  the  White 
Star  steamships  were  built — I  have  forgotten  the  name  of  the  steamship 
line  but  the  Ramsden  people  had  entire  charge  of  it — and  Mr.  Ramsden 
was  one  of  the  most  loyal  friends  of  our  mission  presidents  that  I  think 
we  ever  had  in  any  part  of  the  world. 

STORY  OF  INTERVIEW  WITH  EDITOR 

I  remember  John  Henry  Smith  telling  me  of  a  letter  that  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith  wrote  to  Mr.  Ramsden  thanking  him  for  his  very 
splendid  treatment  while  he  presided  over  the  European  Mission.  Mr. 


president  heber  j.  grant 


9 


Ramsden  said  he  would  not  sell  that  letter  for  a  thousand  dollars  or  more, 
that  he  prized  it  more  than  any  other  letter  he  had  ever  received.  President 
Smith  told  Mr.  Ramsden  in  this  letter  that  the  very  wonderful  treatment 
he  had  received  from  him  and  others  was  such  that  he  dared  not  call 
on  him  to  bid  him  goodby,  but  waited  until  he  was  on  the  steamship 
before  doing  so,  as  he  was  almost  afraid  that  he  might  break  down  and 
make  a  baby  of  himself  if  he  had  called  in  person  to  thank  him. 

The  manager  of  Ramsden  and  Company  gave  me  a  letter  of  intro- 
duction to  the  editor  of  a  London  paper,  and  said  he  felt  that  the  paper 
would  publish  anything  I  wanted  published.  When  I  reached  the  news- 
paper office  I  was  told  that  the  editor  was  out  of  town,  but  that  his 
assistant,  a  Mr.  Robinson,  would  receive  me.  The  assistant  asked  me 
what  I  wanted,  and  I  told  him  I  would  like  very  much  to  tell  him  the 
truth  about  our  people,  that  what  he  had  published  was  not  true. 

"That  is  all  right,"  he  said,  "we  have  published  the  right  thing  about 
you  Mormons." 

"Well,"  I  said,  "when  a  man  calls  another  man  a  liar,  he  naturally 
thinks  that  he  has  done  the  right  thing  of  course,  but  that  does  not  make 
him  a  liar.  I  know  absolutely  that  everything  you  have  published  in 
your  paper  is  a  falsehood.  I  come  to  you  with  a  letter  from  the  firm 
that  has  done  business  with  us  for  over  fifty  years,  and  that  vouches 
not  only  for  my  honesty  and  integrity,  but  for  the  honesty  and  integrity 
of  every  man  who  has  served  as  president  of  the  British  and  European 
missions  of  the  Church  for  fifty  long  years.  I  defy  you  to  get  a  cer- 
tificate of  character  in  favor  of  any  one  of  the  people  who  has  furnished 
you  the  lies  you  have  published  in  your  paper." 

"Never  mind,  we  do  not  propose  to  publish  anything  you  say." 

I  said :  "Good-by.   I  have  met  your  kind  from  London  to  Tokyo."  ■ 

Thirty-odd  years  ago  in  England  the  way  one  dressed  had  quite 
an  effect  on  people,  and  we  had  to  wear  "stovepipe"  hats.  When  the  boy 
who  came  downstairs  to  meet  me  told  me  that  the  editor  was  out,  and  that 
the  assistant  editor  would  receive  me,  that  the  assistant  editor's  name  was 
Robinson,  I  thought  to  myself,  after  he  dismisses  me  I  will  refer  him  to 
Phil  Robinson. 

After  the  assistant  editor  had  refused  to  grant  my  request,  I  stepped 
to  the  door,  put  on  my  two-story  hat,  and  then  turned  around  and  took  it 
off  again  and  said: 

"By  the  way,  as  I  remember  it,  the  boy  said  that  you  are  not  the 
editor,  that  the  editor  was  out,  and  you  are  only  the  assistant  editor, 
and  your  name  is  Robinson. — Is  your  name  Robinson  ?" 

"Yes." 

I  said,  "Are  you  related  to  Phil  Robinson  ?" 
"No  sir."  ' 

"Do  you  know  Phil  Robinson?" 

"Do  I  know  Phil  Robinson?  Everybody  knows  Phil  Robinson." 
"Well,  I  am  glad  to  know  that.  Is  he  editing  the  Society  and  Court 
Journal  here  in  London?" 
"Yes." 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"Was  he  the  correspondent  of  the  London  Daily  Telegraph,  one  of 
the  two  greatest  [I  emphasized  "greatest"  because  his  paper  was  not 
one  of  the  greatest]  London  newspapers  during  the  Boer  War?" 

"He  was." 

"Would  you  believe  anything  he  said?" 

"Anything  he  said,  fully." 

"One  hundred  cents  on  the  dollar?" 

"Fully  one  hundred  cents  on  the  dollar,"  he  answered. 

"All  right.  Buy  his  book  entitled  'Sinners  and  Saints',  it  will  cost 
you  only  a  couple  of  shillings,  and  if  you  cannot  afford  the  money  I 
will  buy  it  and  give  it  to  you.  You  will  find  that  everything  you  have 
published  in  your  paper  is  a  falsehood." 

Phil  Robinson  came  to  Utah  and  he  traveled  from  Cache  Valley 
on  the  north  clear  down  to  Orderville  and  St.  George  and  other  places 
on  the  south,  and  wrote  a  book  giving  statistics  and  showing  that  eighty 
per  cent  of  the  population  did  not  anywhere  near  furnish  as  many  inmates 
of  the  city  jail  and  the  territorial  penitentiary  as  the  eighteen  per  cent  who 
were  not  members  of  the  Church. 

He  said,  "Why,  you  astonish  me." 

I  said,  "Oh,  you  are  not  the  only  man  who  has  been  astonished 
when  he  has  run  up  against  the  Mormon  question." 
"Write  me  half  a  column." 

I  said,  "Thanks.  Small  favors  thankfully  received,  large  ones  in 
proportion.  Ten  columns  of  lies,  and  a  half  column  of  refutation.  You 
shall  have  it  within  a  few  hours." 

I  sent  it  to  him.  He  kept  it  the  usual  two  or  three  months,  and 
then  sent  it  back  with  the  usual  printed  slip  which  I  have  read  many 
times:  "The  editor  regrets  that  he  cannot  find  space  for  the  enclosed 
manuscript,  which  is  returned." 

I  never  get  one  of  those  statements  but  I  think  of  the  humorous 
expression:  "Polite  lying  is  a  gentlemanly  accomplishment,  lubricates 
business,  varnishes  unpleasant  facts,  promotes  friendship." 

Instead  of  the  editor's  statement  impressing  me  with  his  real  sorrow, 
it  impressed  me  with  the  fact  that  he  was  guilty  of  falsehood. 

Today  we  find  the  exact  opposite,  in  that  country,  and  in  fact  all 
over  the  United  States.  We  are  getting  more  favorable  notices  today 
on  account  of  our  Security  Plan  than  we  have  ever  had  before,  and  I 
am  sorry  that  we  are  getting  more  credit  than  we  are  entitled  to  have. 

IDLENESS  NOT  TO  BE  ENCOURAGED 

I  took  the  trouble  this  morning  to  read  in  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants regarding  the  idler,  and  we  have  some  idlers  in  our  midst.  We 
find  in  Section  75  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

Let  every  man  be  diligent  in  all  things.   And  the  idler  shall  not  have 
place  in  the  Church,  except  he  repent  and  mend  his  ways. 

I  referred  yesterday  to  the  people  who  were  assembled  in  this 
building,  and  the  Tabernacle  was  nearly  as  full  (excepting  the  gallery) 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


11 


of  our  good  sisters  yesterday  as  it  is  of  people  today.    Let  me  tell  you 
that  where  there  is  one  idler  among  the  sisters  there  are  about  twenty-five 
idlers  among  the  brethren.   I  think  that  is  about  a  fair  average. 
In  Section  88,  we  read : 

Cease  to  be  idle;  cease  to  be  unclean;  cease  to  find  fault  one  with 
another ;  cease  to  sleep  longer  than  is  needful ;  retire  to  thy  bed  early,  that 
ye  may  not  be  weary;  arise  early,  that  your  bodies  and  your  minds  may- 
be invigorated. 

Please  remember  that  these  are  not  the  statements  of  Heber  J. 
Grant,  but  they  are  the  statements  of  the  Lord: 

And  the  inhabitants  of  Zion  also  shall  remember  their  labors,  inas- 
much as  they  are  appointed  to  labor,  in  all  faithfulness ;  for  the  idler  shall 
be  had  in  remembrance  before  the  Lord. 

Now  I,  the  Lord,  am  not  well  pleased  with  the  inhabitants  of  Zion, 
for  there  are  idlers  among  them ;  and  their  children  are  also  growing  up 
in  wickedness ;  they  also  seek  not  earnestly  the  riches  of  eternity,  but  their 
eyes  are  full  of  greediness. 

Thou  shalt  not  be  idle;  for  he  that  is  idle  shall  not  eat  the  bread 
nor  wear  the  garments  of  the  laborer. 

We  now  are  trying  to  take  care  of  the  worthy  poor,  and  in 
about  eight  cases  out  of  ten  the  "worthy  poor"  who  apply  for  help  are 
not  and  have  not  been  full,  honest,  conscientious  tithepayers. 

Behold,  they  have  been  sent  to  preach  my  gospel  among  the  congre- 
gations of  the  wicked ;  wherefore,  I  give  unto  them  a  commandment,  thus : 
Thou  shalt  not  idle  away  thy  time,  neither  shalt  thou  bury  thy  talent  that 
it  may  not  be  knowa 

I  want  to  tell  you  we  found,  by  inquiry,  that  a  great  many  of  our 
missionaries  were  idling  away  their  time,  and  we  tried  to  encourage  them 
to  be  more  faithful.  I  heard  a  statement  that  I  quoted  here  yesterday — 
I  hope  it  is  not  true- — that  a  man  who  had  often  borrowed  money  from 
one  of  our  country  banks  on  a  crop  mortgage  came  to  the  bank  and 
wanted  some  money.  The  banker  said :  "Certainly,  we'll  be  glad  to  let 
you  have  some  money.   Just  bring  us  a  crop  mortgage." 

"Ah,"  said  he,  "I  am  not  raising  any  crops  now.  The  government 
is  giving  me  more  money  for  not  raising  crops  than  I  could  get  other- 
wise.  I  will  give  you  an  order  on  the  government." 

Let  us  hope  that  that  spirit  of  independence  that  was  with  our 
pioneer  fathers  may  be  re-awakened  in  us,  and  that  none  who  are  Latter- 
day  Saints  holding  the  Priesthood  of  God  will  be  guilty  of  being  idle. 
Let  us  work  early  and  let  us  work  late 

REVELATION  TO  HYRUM  SMITH 

As  I  was  looking  for  these  passages  that  I  have  quoted,  I  thought 
of  a  very  remarkable  and  wonderful  revelation  that  was  given,  as  I 
remember  it,  eleven  months  before  the  Church  was  organized,  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  to  his  brother  Hyrum.  It  is  a  remarkable 
revelation : 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Behold,  the  field  is  white  already  to  harvest ;  therefore,  whoso  desireth 
to  reap,  let  him.  thrust  in  his  sickle  with  his  might  and  reap  while  the  day 
lasts,  that  he  may  treasure  up  for  his  soul  everlasting  salvation  in  the 
kingdom  of  God.  .  . 

Seek  not  for  riches  but  for  wisdom,  and  behold  the  mysteries  of  God 
shall  be  unfolded  unto  you,  and  then  shall  you  be  made  rich.  Behold,  he 
that  hath  eternal  life  is  rich. 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  even  as  you  desire  of  me  so  it  shall  be 
done  unto  you ;  and,  if  you  desire,  you  shall  be  the  means  of  doing  much 
good  in  this  generation. 

Few  men  have  ever  lived  that  have  done  more  good  than  Hyrum 
Smith  in  his  generation,  and  he  has  left  a  posterity  that  is  among  the 
staunchest  and  most  powerful  in  all  the  Church.  One  of  the  most 
splendid  men  that  ever  lived  was  his  son  the  late  President  of  this  Church, 
Joseph  F.  Smith. 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  even  as  you  desire  of  me  so  it  shall 
be  unto  you ;  and  if  you  desire,  you  shall  be  the  means  of  doing  much  good 
in  this  generation. 

That  was  the  desire  of  Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  he  did  it. 

Say  nothing  but  repentance  unto  this  generation.  Keep  my  command- 
ments, and  assist  to  bring  forth  my  work,  according  to  my  commandments, 
and  you  shall  be  blessed. 

*  *  * 

Behold,  this  is  your  work  to  keep  my  commandments,  yea,  with  all 
your  might,  mind  and  strength. 

Seek  not  to  declare  my  word,  but  first  seek  to  obtain  my  word,  and 
then  shall  your  tongue  be  loosed ;  then,  if  you  desire,  you  shall  have  my 
Spirit  and  my  word,  yea  the  power  of  God  unto  the  convincing  of  men. 

*  *  * 

Behold,  I  speak  unto  all  who  have  good  desires,  and  have  thrust  in 
their  sickle  to  reap. 

Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God.  I  am  the  life  and  the 
light  of  the  world. 

I  am  the  same  who  came  unto  mine  own  and  mine  own  received  me  not ; 

But  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  that  as  many  as  receive  me,  to  them 
will  I  give  power  to  become  the  sons  of  God,  even  to  them  that  believe 
on  my  name. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  not  reading  to  you  my  words,  but  1 
am  quoting  to  you  the  words  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Redeemer  and  Savior. 
While  upon  this  mission  one  thing  that  thrilled  me  was  to  read  the  book 
by  Richard  L.  Evans  giving  a  history  of  missionary  work  in  Great 
Britain.  Fifty  thousand,  as  I  remember  it,  of  the  staunchest,  finest  of 
all  the  people  of  Great  Britain  have  helped  to  build  this  Church  by 
emigrating  to  this  country.   A  marvelous  work. 

Wilford  Woodruff  baptized  over  2,000  people,  and  Orson  Pratt 
nearly  the  same  number.  Heber  C.  Kimball,  Lorenzo  Snow  and  others 
did  marvelous  and  wonderful  work  there  also. 

President  Heber  C.  Kimball  was  inspired  in  the  most  marvelous 
and  wonderful  way  in  opening  up  that  mission.  I  had  great  joy  in 
contemplating  these  things. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


13 


THE  EUROPEAN  SAINTS  TO  HAVE  MORE  ATTENTION 

It  melted  my  heart  to  find  how  anxious  the  people  who  are  in  those 
countries  are  to  hear  the  Authorities  of  the  Church,  how  their  hearts 
swelled  with  gratitude  when  President  Clark,  myself,  Brother  Lyman 
and  others  were  with  them.  I  feel  really  and  truly  ashamed  of  myself 
that  I  have  neglected  so  long  returning  to  that  part  of  the  flock.  They 
are  just  as  much  a  part  of  this  Church  as  you  are,  and  the  Lord  helping 
us,  they  shall  not  be  neglected  in  the  future  as  much  as  they  have  been 
in  the  past.  They  are  a  part  of  the  work  of  God,  and  they  are  entitled 
to  visits  every  year  or  two  from  some  of  the  leaders  of  this  Church.  We 
have  taken  care  of  our  people  here  at  home,  and  we  have  sadly  neglected 
those  fine  people  over  in  those  countries.  Pardon  me,  but  I  do  feel  in 
my  heart  condemned  that  I  did  not  take  the  time  to  go  back  there  sooner, 
and  if  the  Lord  spares  my  life  I  am  not  going  to  wait  very  long  before 
going  back  again 

I  think  I  have  reasonably  well  covered  the  ground  in  reporting  my 
mission  to  you. 

A  FINANCIAL  SAVIOR 

I  want  to  say  a  little  about  a  subject  that  so  many  Latter-day  Saints 
say  they  are  sick  and  tired  of.  Why  are  they  sick  and  tired  of  it?  Be- 
cause they  are  not  doing  their  duty.  No  mortal  man  who  is  living  the 
Word  of  Wisdom  is  ever  sick  and  tired  of  hearing  it  preached.  It  would 
be  the  financial  savior  of  the  whole  world  if  they  were  to  live  the  Word 
of  Wisdom.  It  would  solve  all  their  financial  problems,  there  would  not 
be,  as  I  remember  it,  about  160,000,000,000  or  170,000,000,000  cigarets 
smoked  in  a  single  year — a  soul-  and  body-destroying  weed. 

I  remember  reading  years  ago  (I  had  a  number  of  statistics  in  a 
little  book,  which  I  regret  I  have  lost),  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  for 
fifty  long  years  in  Harvard  no  young  man  who  smoked  tobacco  had  ever 
graduated  as  the  star  student  of  his  class,  and  yet  there  were  five  times 
as  many  boys  smoking  tobacco  as  there  were  who  did  not  smoke.  A 
soul-destroying  and  body-destroying  weed. 

When  I  read  in  the  newspaper  a  few  days  ago  of  the  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  dollars  that  we  are  taking  in  in  our  state  through  the  sale 
of  liquor,  millions  of  dollars  being  wasted  a  year — worse  than  wasted' — 
I  felt  sad.  Would  you  think  much  of  a  man  who  would  set  fire  to  millions 
of  dollars  worth  of  property?  That  is  what  is  being  done  when  we  drink 
liquor  and  when  our  young  people  learn  to  smoke  cigarets.  Let  each  and 
every  one  of  us  fathers  and  mothers  set  an  example  of  keeping  the  Word 
of  Wisdom ;  then  there  will  be  no  reflection  upon  us  if  our  children  do 
not  follow  our  example.  Let  us  as  a  people  change  the  law  in  this  country 
and  not  let  a  lot  of  whiskey  selling  people  direct  us.  Let  us  at  least  have 
prohibition  in  Utah. 

Think  of  the  millions  of  dollars  expended  here  in  Utah  alone  for 
the  use  of  liquor.  There  was  not  a  tithe  of  the  amount  of  liquor  now 
consumed  used  when  we  had  Prohibition.   Millions  of  dollars  of  money 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


was  expended  to  bring  back  liquor.  The  whole  United  States  has  sur- 
rendered to  the  lies  that  were  told  to  the  effect  that  there  was  more 
drunkenness  and  more  crime  when  we  had  Prohibition.  No  greater  lies 
were  ever  published. 

THE  WORD  OF  WISDOM 

The  Word  of  Wisdom  is  what  the  Lord  has  to  say,  not  what  man 
has  to  say,  and  although  an  old  subject,  I  propose  to  read  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  This  is  what  the  Lord  says,  and  not  what  Heber  J.  Grant  says 
— don't  forget  it.  Let  each  and  every  one  of  us  try  to  improve  our  lives 
and  inspire  others  to  improve  theirs.  No  man  or  woman  who  is  keeping 
the  Word  of  Wisdom  finds  fault  with  it.  Why?  Because  they  know 
of  the  health  they  enjoy,  they  know  of  the  peace,  the  joy,  the  comfort, 
the  satisfaction  that  come  to  their  hearts  when  they  do  what  the  Lord 
wants  them  to  do. 

Revelation  given  through  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  at  Kirtland,  Ohio, 
February  27,  1833 — 

— (over  a  hundred  years  ago) — 

— known  as  the  Word  of  Wisdom. — Abstinence  from  wine,  strong 
drinks  enjoined — Moderation  in  the  eating  of  meat — Wholesome  foods — 
Promises  to  those  who  live  according  to  these  precepts. 

A  Word  of  Wisdom,  for  the  benefit  of  the  council  of  high  priests, 
assembled  in  Kirtland;  and  the  Church,  and  also  the  Saints  in  Zion — 
To  be  sent  greeting;  not  by  commandment  or  constraint — 

Some  say,  "Oh,  that  is  how  I  get  around  it.  It  is  not  given  by 
commandment  or  constraint."   What  is  it?   I  will  tell  you  what  it  is — 

but  by  revelation  and  the  word  of  wisdom,  showing  forth  the  order 
and  will  of  God — 

When  the  Lord  shows  forth  his  order  and  his  will,  do  not  try  to 
sing  lullabies  to  your  conscience,  any  one  of  you  who  is  breaking  the 
Word  of  Wisdom. 

— in  the  temporal  salvation  of  all  Saints  in  the  last  days. 

It  would  be  the  temporal  salvation  of  the  people  of  all  the  wide 
world  if  they  would  live  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 

Given  for  a  principle  with  promise,  adapted  to  the  capacity  of  the 
weak  and  the  weakest  of  all  Saints,  who  are  or  can  be  called  Saints. 

Behold,  verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  you :  In  consequence  of  evils 
and  designs  which  do  and  will  exist  in  the  hearts  of  conspiring  men  in 
the  last  days,  I  have  warned  you  and  forewarn  you,  by  giving  unto  you 
this  word  of  wisdom  by  revelation — 

And  can  there  be  a  more  damnable  design  than  advertisements  show- 
ing the  picture  of  a  beautiful  woman  and  by  her  a  ring  of  tobacco  smoke, 
supposed  to  be  a  wedding  ring?  A  picture  of  a  beautiful  woman  learning 
to  smoke. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


15 


That  inasmuch  as  any  man  drinketh  wine  or  strong  drink  among  you, 
behold  it  is  not  good,  neither  meet  in  the  sight  of  your  Father,  only  in 
assembling  yourselves  together  to  offer  up  your  sacraments  before  him. 

And  behold,  this  should  be  wine,  yea,  pure  wine  of  the  grape  of  the 
vine,  of  your  own  make. 

And  again,  strong  drinks  are  not  for  the  belly,  but  for  the  washing 
of  your  bodies. 

And  again,  tobacco  is  not  for  the  body,  neither  for  the  belly,  and 
is  not  good  for  man,  but  is  an  herb  for  bruises  and  all  sick  cattle,  to  be 
used  with  judgment  and  skill. 

And  again,  hot  drinks  are  not  for  the  body  or  belly. 

And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  all  wholesome  herbs  God  hath 
ordained  for  the  constitution,  nature,  and  use  of  man — 

Every  herb  in  the  season  thereof,  and  every  fruit  in  the  season 
thereof ;  all  these  to  be  used  with  prudence  and  thanksgiving. 

Yea,  flesh  also  of  beasts  and  of  the  fowls  of  the  air,  I,  the  Lord, 
have  ordained  for  the  use  of  man  with  thanksgiving ;  neverthelss  they  are 
to  be  used  sparingly. 

And  it  is  pleasing  unto  me  that  they  should  not  be  used,  only  in  times 
of  winter,  or  of  cold,  or  famine. 

All  grain  is  ordained  for  the  use  of  man  and  of  beasts,  to  be  the  staff 
of  life,  not  only  for  man  but  for  the  beasts  of  the  field,  and  the  fowls  of 
heaven,  and  all  wild  animals  that  run  or  creep  on  the  earth ; 

And  these  hath  God  made  for  the  use  of  man  only  in  times  of  famine 
and  excess  of  hunger. 

All  grain  is  good  for  the  food  of  man ;  as  also  the  fruit  of  the  vine ; 
that  which  yieldeth  fruit,  whether  in  the  ground  or  above  the  ground — 

Nevertheless,  wheat  for  man,  and  corn  for  the  ox,  and  oats  for  the 
horse,  and  rye  for  the  fowls  and  for  swine,  and  for  all  beasts  of  the 
field,  and  barley  for  all  useful  animals,  and  for  mild  drinks,  as  also  other 
grain. 

And  all  Saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking 
in  obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel  and 
marrow  to  their  bones  ; 

What  a  wonderful  promise  from  God ! 

And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures ; 

And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk  and  not  faint. 
And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise,  that  the  destroying  angel 
shall  pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them. 

I  believe  as  firmly  as  I  believe  that  I  am  standing  here  before  you 
today  that,  on  three  separate  and  distinct  occasions  in  my  life  I  would 
have  lost  my  life  had  I  not  been  an  observer  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
but  on  account  of  the  pure  blood  I  had  in  my  veins  and  the  promise  of 
God  and  the  keeping  of  the  commandments  of  God,  my  life  has  been 
spared. 

It  is  no  hardship  to  me  to  eat  meat  sparingly.  I  lived  for  several 
years,  during  the  winter  time,  in  the  Utah  Hotel  and  I  am  sure  that  not 
more  than  ten  or  a  dozen  times  did  I  order  meat,  and  then  it  was  some 
small  lamb  chops ;  no  pork,  no  turkey,  no  chicken,  no  veal  of  any  kind  did 
I  ever  eat  during  that  time  at  the  cafeteria. 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


JOY  IN  BEARING  TESTIMONY 

I  rejoice  in  the  remarkable  health  I  enjoy.  It  has  been  the  joy  of 
my  life  to  testify  of  the  good  things  that  come  to  every  man  and  every 
woman  who  lives  up  to  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  I  thank  the 
Lord  beyond  all  the  power  with  which  he  has  endowed  me  to  express 
my  thoughts  for  this  Word  of  Wisdom,  the  temporal  salvation  of  this 
people,  if  we  only  keep  it. 

I  have  had  joy  in  my  labors  in  the  British  Isles  and  on  the  Continent. 
It  has  been  a  real  pleasure  to  me  to  bear  my  witness  in  all  humility  that 
I  know  that  God  lives ;  that  I  know  that  he  hears  and  answers  our 
prayers ;  that  I  know  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  the  Living  God,  the 
Redeemer  of  mankind.  I  do  know  beyond  a  shadow  of  a  doubt  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  the  true  and  living  God  and  that  he  was 
inspired  and  directed  by  our  Heavenly  Father  and  that  he  received  reve- 
lations from  God  and  from  Jesus  Christ.  It  was  my  joy  to  bear  that 
testimony  in  all  these  lands  that  I  have  referred  to.  Not  only  has  it  been 
my  joy  to  do  this,  but  I  thank  the  Lord  that  for  fifty-odd  long  years  I 
have  been  able  to  bear  that  testimony  and  that  day  by  day  and  year  by 
year  there  have  come  to  me  constantly  evidences,  so  far  as  the  intelligence 
with  which  God  has  endowed  me  is  concerned,  to  confirm  my  knowledge 
of  the  truth  of  this  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  which  has  come  to  us. 

With  all  my  heart  and  soul,  I  pray  God  to  help  you  and  to  help  me 
and  to  help  every  one  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  so  to  live  that  our  lives 
will  proclaim  the  Gospel ;  that  our  lives  may  be  the  influence  that  will 
make  a  good  impression.  Many  young  men  think  that  if  they  are  "a  hale 
fellow  well  met" ;  that  if  the  man  that  is  employing  them  smokes  and 
they  smoke  too  he  will  think  more  of  them.  I  tell  you  the  day  is  here 
right  now  when  many  men  will  not  employ  a  Mormon  boy  who  is  not 
living  up  to  the  teachings  of  his  parents  and  observing  the  Word  of 
Wisdom. 

SUCCESS  FOLLOWS  KEEPING  OF  COMMANDMENTS 

The  keeping  of  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  gives  us  success  in 
the  battle  of  life.  The  money  expended  for  liquor  and  tobacco  is  the 
difference  between  a  young  man  making  a  success  in  life  and  making 
a  failure. 

I  stood  at  the  graves  of  two  of  my  boyhood  friends  who  lived  long 
enough  to  be  married  and  have  children.  Liquor  had  got  the  better  of 
them  and  as  I  stood  at  their  graves — one  of  them  having  been  cut  off  the 
Church  for  having  lost  his  virtue  while  under  the  influence  of  liquor — 
I  pledged  my  best  to  fhe  Lord  as  I  looked  up  into  heaven,  to  labor  with 
all  the  power  that  God  gave  me  to  fight  whiskey  and  tobacco  and  I  have 
kept  that  pledge. 

I  hope  every  Latter-day  Saint  within  the  sound  of  my  voice  today 
may  make  a  pledge  with  God  that  he  or  she  will  not  be  an  idler ;  that  he 
or  she  will  keep  the  commandments  of  God ;  that  they  may  bring  others 
to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth,  and  this  is  my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it 
jn  humility  and  in  the  name  of  our  Savior,  Jesus  Christ,  Amen, 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


17 


"An  Angel  from  on  High"  was  sung  by  the  Singing  Mothers. 
Soloists :  Virginia  Freeze  Barker,  soprano ;  Annette  Dinwoodey,  alto. 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  do  not  know  just  how  you  feel  after  listening  to  the  remarkable 
sermon  just  delivered  by  President  Grant.  I  want  to  say  to  you  today 
that  from  my  own  experience,  not  only  at  home  but  abroad  as  well, 
the  statements  made  by  the  President,  if  carried  out  in  our  lives,  would 
bring  honor,  not  only  to  the  individual  members  of  the  Church  but  to 
the  great  organization  to  which  we  belong.  I  am  quite  sure  I  speak 
the  truth  when  I  say  I  know  that  every  member  here  is  perfectly  willing 
to  sacrifice  anything  that  the  Church,  through  the  inspiration  that  comes 
to  God's  servants,  requires  in  order  that  it  may  grow  and  increase  in 
power  in  the  world. 

OBEDIENCE  TO  LAWS  OF  THE  CHURCH  BRINGS  HONOR 

I  just  want  to  add  one  thing  to  what  has  already  been  so  well  said 
to  show  my  brethren  and  sisters  that  the  honest  people  of  the  world  will 
think  a  great  deal  more  of  the  members  of  this  Church  if  they  comply 
with  its  laws  and  live  up  to  their  professions  as  Latter-day  Saints  than 
if  they  do  not.  I  have  had  many  chances  in  my  life  to  prove  this. 

I  remember  upon  one  occasion,  shortly  after  I  went  to  the  Senate 
of  the  United  States,  and  after  the  wicked  charges  had  been  made 
against  me,  I  was  invited  to  a  dinner  by  perhaps  not  only  the  wealthiest 
woman  in  Washington,  but  in  the  United  States.  She  had  a  beautiful 
home,  all  that  money  could  purchase.  Upon  that  occasion  as  I  entered 
that  great  dining  room  I  saw  tables  that  were  at  least  eighty  or  ninety 
feet  long,  furnished  of  course  with  all  that  money  could  command, 
and  at  each  plate  were  three  glasses  for  the  purpose  of  serving  three 
different  kinds  of  wine.  As  I  sat  at  the  table  I  thought  to  myself  that 
the  proper  way  to  do  was  to  turn  my  glasses  upside  down  so  that  no  wine 
could  be  served  at  the  place  where  I  sat. 

After  the  dinner  was  over,  and  we  had  adjourned  into  the  great 
reception  room,  my  hostess  came  to  me  and  said : 

"Senator  Smoot,  wasn't  my  wine  good  enough  for  you?" 

I  said :  "No,  madam,  no  wine  is  good  enough  for  me.   I  never  use  it." 

I  had  the  chance  then  and  there  to  explain  to  her  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  and  I  am  glad  to  report  to  you  that  she  admitted  to  me  that 
we  were  right,  and  that  all  of  them  would  be  better  without  strong 
drinks.  But  fashion,  that  great  slave-driver  of  certain  classes,  was 
so  powerful  that  I  suppose  she  would  follow  it  even  though  she  realized 
that  to  drink  wine  was  wrong. 

DR.  KARL  G.   MAESER's  SAYINGS 

I  thought  this  morning  I  would  take  the  time  to  call  the  attention 
of  this  Conference  to  some  of  Doctor  Karl  G.  Maeser's  sayings,  which 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  call  Sentence  Sermons.  I  think  they  are  wonderful ;  each  one  is  a 
subject  for  a  sermon,  and  put  so  concisely  that  to  announce  the  statement 
itself  is  sufficient : 

Infidelity  is  consumption  of  the  soul. 
Be  yourself,  but  always  your  better  self. 
The  Lord  is  never  in  debt  to  any  one. 
The  Lord  never  does  anything  arbitrarily. 
Make  the  man  within  your  living  ideal. 
Everyone's  life  is  an  object  lesson  to  others. 
My  word  shall  always  be  as  good  as  my  bond. 
Authority  must  be  as  an  iron  fist  in  a  velvet  glove. 
Say  to  thy  soul :  "No  unclean  thing  shall  enter  here." 
One  who  has  lost  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  dead  spiritually. 
Let  your  first  good  morning  be  to  your  Heavenly  Father.  " 
A  man  without  character  is  like  a  ship  without  a  rudder. 
I  would  rather  lose  my  right  arm  than  break  my  word  of  honor. 
If  it  shall  please  my  Heavenly  Father,  I  shall  be  a  teacher  in  heaven. 
It  is  not  so  much  what  a  person  says,  but  what  makes  him  say  it. 
A  laudable  ambition  to  excel  is  an  indispensable  requisite  to  success. 
When  I  listen  to  a  sermon,  I  have  my  ears  open  to  the  doctrine  only. 
No  man  shall  be  more  exacting  of  me  or  my  conduct  than  I  am  of 
myself. 

He  that  deceives  another  is  a  knave;  but  he  that  deceives  himself  is 
a  fool. 

Our  patriarchal  blessings  are  paragraphs  from  the  book  of  our  pos- 
sibilities. 

Boys,  when  you  are  tempted  to  go  into  a  saloon,  think  of  me,  your 
teacher. 

We  go  to  the  East  for  learning,  but  the  East  will  come  to  us  for 
wisdom. 

No  righteous  rules,  however  rigid,  are  too  stringent  for  me;  I  will 
live  above  them. 

Eagerness  to  earn  bread  and  butter  has  overshadowed  many  a  golden 
opportunity. 

School  is  a  drill  for  the  battle  of  life.  If  you  fail  in  the  drill  you  will 
fail  in  the  battle. 

I  would  rather  trust  my  child  with  a  serpent  than  to  place  him  in  the 
hands  of  an  irreligious  teacher. 

The  good  angels  never  lose  an  opportunity  of  calling  attention  to 
something  good  in  everybody. 

All  our  prayers  are  addressed  in  the  handwriting  of  the  heart,  readable 
to  God  and  ourselves  only. 

Youth  demands  recreation,  and  if  it  is  not  provided  in  the  high  places, 
will  seek  it  in  low  places. 

The  truly  educated  man  will  always  speak  to  the  understanding  of  the 
most  unlearned  of  his  audience. 

If  you  learn  only  the  fraction  of  the  "A"  of  a  principle,  practice 
at  once  that  fraction  you  have  learned. 

What  we  did  before  we  came  here  conditioned  us  here;  what  we  do 
here  will  condition  us  in  the  world  to  come. 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


19 


It  is  our  privilege  to  become  so  attached  to  our  duties  that  temptation 
shall  have  no  power  to  lead  us  astray. 

Every  one  of  us,  sooner  or  later,  must  stand  at  the  forks  of  the 
road  and  choose  between  personal  interest  and  some  principle  of  right. 

CHANGE  WROUGHT  BY  THE  GOSPEL 

I  have  read  these  hundreds  of  times.  I  think  if  the  Lord  ever  made 
a  man  completely  over,  through  accepting  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
that  man  was  Doctor  Karl  G.  Maeser.  All  his  ideas  of  life  were  changed. 
I  have  heard  him  tell  many  and  many  a  time,  and  personally  I  know  from 
actual  experience,  of  the  spirit  which  I  suppose  is  common  to  the  German 
people,  that  of  being  strictly  military,  if  you  please,  in  the  demands  made 
by  them. 

I  remember  the  first  time  that  I  ever  saw  Brother  Maeser.  I  was 
then  a  small  boy,  and  I  went  to  the  Twentieth  Ward  school.  He  came 
to  the  Twentieth  Ward  after  teaching  President  Young's  children  in  a 
small  schoolhouse  within  a  block  of  this  place.  There  was  a  blackboard 
painted  on  the  wall  on  the  west  end  of  the  room,  and  a  long  bench  in 
front.  We  all  sat  upon  that  bench.  Brother  Maeser  came  down  the 
aisle,  walking  just  as  I  always  imagined  a  German  general  would  do. 
He  stood  in  front  of  the  class,  then  came  up  to  me,  as  I  was  on  the  end 
of  the  bench,  and  said: 

"Are  you  prepared  ?" 

I  didn't  know  what  "prepared"  meant.  I  said,  "No." 

He  slapped  my  ears,  and  went  all  down  that  bench,  and  every  one 
of  the  class  got  a  slap  on  the  ears. 

Years  afterwards  I  saw  Karl  G.  Maeser,  under  the  influence  of 
the  Spirit  of  God.  He  had  been  called  by  the  President  of  this  Church 
to  a  great  mission.  I  saw  him,  as  I  say,  transformed  from  the  German 
spirit  into  a  man  with  the  humblest  spirit  and  with  a  devout  belief 
in  God's  way. 

I  owe  a  great  deal  to  Brother  Maeser.  I  graduated  from  the  Brigham 
Young  Academy,  and  I  thank  God  that  later  I  had  a  chance  to  demon- 
strate to  him  that  I  loved  him — loved  him  better  than  he  perhaps  thought. 
I  would  have  done  anything  in  the  world  for  him.  He  was  a  man  of 
God  who  fulfilled  his  mission,  and  as  the  years  go  by  the  members  of 
this  Church,  through  the  students  that  were  under  him,  shall  know  better 
the  work  intended  by  God  for  his  people  in  this  dispensation. 

SERVICE  is  JOY 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  believe  in  service  to  God.  I  believe  in 
service  to  country.  I  believe  in  service  to  our  families,  and  I  believe 
in  service  to  the  Church.  God  grant  that  I  may  ever  be  able  to  fulfil 
every  call,  no  matter  what  it  may  be.  I  assure  you  that  there  isn't  a  day 
passes  but  that  I  ask  my  Heavenly  Father  that  I  shall  be  blessed  in  a 
way  that  my  life  shall  be  acceptable  to  him,  also  for  the  welfare  of  my 
loved  ones;  the  welfare  of  the  President  of  the  Church;  the  welfare 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  the  Authorities  of  the  Church — both  the  local  and  the  general  Au- 
thorities. I  feel  that  way,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  May  we  pass 
through  the  trying  ordeals  of  the  present  with  a  deeper  conviction  in  our 
souls  that  God  is  at  the  helm,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

ENCOURAGED  AS  TO  SECURITY  PROGRAM 

It  has  been  my  privilege  during  the  last  summer  to  be  associated  with 
the  Church  Security  Committee,  to  meet  and  hold  conversations  with 
some  of  the  gentlemen  who  have  visited  our  communities  and  have 
written  articles  that  have  appeared  in  magazines  and  newspapers.  By 
reason  of  the  trend  of  their  conversation  and  their  interest  I  have  been 
greatly  impressed  with  the  fact  that  the  interest  that  has  been  aroused 
is  not  going  to  be  wholly  satisfied  by  learning  something  about  our  Church 
Security  Program.  The  progress  which  we  have  made  is  fully  up  to  my 
expectations.  The  response  of  the  membership  of  the  Church  in  the 
increase  of  Fast  offerings  and  Tithing  last  year  was  most  encouraging. 
I  do  most  sincerely  trust  that  we  shall  not  hesitate  now,  but  that  we 
shall  continue  this  good  effort  and  raise  our  quotas  in  the  payment  of  our 
Fast  offerings  at  least  up  to  the  standard  of  the  minimum  for  the 
poorest  members  of  the  Church,  to  the  dollar  suggested  by  the  Presidency. 
We  did  not  reach  it  last  year.  We  are  making  progress  toward  it,  and 
I  hope  that  none  of  us  will  be  content  until  we  have  at  least  reached 
that  objective.  The  reason  is  that  we  need  that  assistance.  Our  program 
is  going  only  as  fast  as  we  have  the  means,  and  we  do  not  propose  to 
run  in  debt  to  try  to  solve  the  problem,  but  we  are  consuming  the  means 
that  come  to  us  in  an  effort  to  solve  this  important  undertaking  which 
the  Church  has  in  hand  at  this  moment. 

APPEAL  TO  MEMBERS 

If  there  ever  was  an  occasion  in  the  history  of  the  Church  when 
the  non-tithepayer  or  the  individuals  who  have  not  paid  Fast  offerings 
ought  to  be  appealed  to  effectively  it  is  now.  Surely  there  is  not  a  man  who 
claims  membership  in  the  Church  who  is  going  to  stand  by  and  see  his 
Church  humiliated,  because  he  did  not  do  his  part.  There  is  not  a  man, 
though  he  does  not  live  up  to  all  the  requirements  of  the  Gospel,  but  that 
has  a  pride  in  his  Church.  He  likes  to  hear  good  things  said  about  it. 
He  wants  to  see  it  fulfill  its  undertakings.  And,  therefore,  I  do  appeal 
to  you,  my  brethren  who  have  to  do  with  the  encouragement  on  the 
part  of  those  who  have  not  yet  done  their  full  duty  in  assisting  us,  before 
the  close  of  the  year,  that  we  shall  have  many  of  them  aroused  to  the 
point  where  they  will  give  us  that  assistance,  not  only  because  we  need 
the  help,  but  because  it  will  bring  to  them  blessings,  spiritual  blessings 
and  material  blessings  at  the  hands  of  the  Lord, 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


21 


PROBLEMS  SOLVED  IN  THE  LORD'S  WAY 

The  greatest  feature  of  our  program  has  not  been  the  assistance 
we  have  rendered  to  others — while  that  has  been  most  satisfactory,  one 
of  the  greatest  contributions  that  the  Church  has  received  out  of  the 
program  has  been  the  awakened  interest  on  the  part  of  the  indifferent 
who  have  come  to  participate  and  become  active  in  the  Church  work.  It 
will  become  a  savior  to  many  of  them,  and  if  we  persist  in  this  program 
as  we  certainly  shall  do,  and  with  the  aid  and  help  of  our  brothers  and 
sisters  and  the  blessing  of  the  Lord,  in  due  time  we  will  solve  the 
problem,  and  when  we  have  done  it,  it  will  be  a  monument  to  us  that  will 
attract  the  ends  of  the  earth;  because  we  are  dealing  with  a  problem 
that  is  world-wide,  every  nation,  every  community  has  the  same  identical 
problem  and  they  are  struggling,  by  various  ways  and  means,  some  by 
Communism  and  some  by  Fascism  and  some  by  other  methods  to  solve 
the  problem ;  but  we  know  that  it  can  only  be  solved  in  the  Lord's  way. 
We  have  the  Lord's  way,  and  it  is  our  responsibility  to  demonstrate  to 
the  world  that  the  Lord's  way  is  effective,  that  it  will  work,  but  the 
interest  that  has  been  aroused  will  create  further  inquiry  into  the  lives 
of  the  people.  They  will  want  to  know  how  we  live  in  the  home ;  our 
social  life;  our  relations  with  each  other,  in  an  age  when  there  is  a 
growing  doubt  concerning  the  vitality  of  the  Christian  denominations 
arid  their  ability  to  meet  and  solve  human  problems.  This  is  the  oppor- 
tune time  to  prove  to  the  world  that  the  real  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  which  we  have  received,  does  have  in  it  the  power  to  make  men 
capable  of  living  up  to  the  highest  standards  that  have  been  given  to 
mankind  in  the  restored  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  No  other  people  in 
the  history  of  this  world  have  had  put  before  them  higher  ideals  than 
have  the  Latter-day  Saints.  When  this  inspection  comes,  I  am  getting 
exceedingly  anxious  that  we  shall  be  so  well  prepared  when  they 
come  not  only  to  learn  about  our  security  program,  but  come  to  learn 
about  our  personal  lives,  our  relationships  with  each  other,  that  they  will 
discover  that  we  have  a  practical  religion  that  goes  with  us  into  the 
shop,  into  the  farm,  into  the  factory,  into  our  social  lives,  that  wherever 
we  go  we  take  our  religion  with  us  and  that  it  is  effective  in  making  us 
different. 

KEEPING  OF  WORD  OF  WISDOM  URGED 

The  President  has  just  made  an  appeal,  and  I  am  with  him  one 
hundred  percent.  I  shall  continue  wherever  I  go  in  the  stakes  of  Zion, 
to  appeal  to  the  young  people  of  the  Church,  and  the  older  people  as  well, 
to  live  up  to  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  I  want  to  make  this  additional 
appeal  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  not  only  for  the  blessings 
and  the  benefits  that  will  flow  to  us,  shall  we  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
financially  and  spiritually,  but  for  the  blessing  it  will  be  to  the  world. 
When  they  come  from  abroad,  as  the  prophets  of  old  said  they  would, 
one  of  a  city  and  two  of  a  family  from  the  ends  of  the  earth  to  the  tops  of 
the  mountains,  where  the  House  of  the  Lord  should  be  established — the 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


prophets  said  the  peoples  of  the  east  and  the  west  and  the  north  and  the 
south  would  say,  "Come,  let  us  go  up  to  the  mountain  of  the  Lord,  to  the 
house  of  the  God  of  Jacob,  that  we  may  learn  of  his  ways  and  walk  in 
his  paths" — when  they  come  I  am  exceedingly  anxious  that  they  shall 
not  find  Latter-day  Saint  girls  and  boys  smoking.  If  they  do  not,  it  will  be 
a  distinguishing  thing,  for  they  will  not  find  such  a  situation  anywhere 
else  in  the  world.  We  want  you  to  be  the  hope  of  the  world,  the  very 
light  of  the  world,  the  salt  of  the  earth.  You  have  a  responsibility,  with 
the  superior  knowledge  that  has  come  to  you,  to  be  an  example.  When 
they  come  I  do  not  want  them  to  find  Latter-day  Saint  boys  and  girls 
drinking  liquor,  or  beer  with  its  alcohol  content,  condemned  by  the 
Lord,  because  it  is  a  strong  drink. 

STANDARDS  SHOULD  BE  MAINTAINED 

When  they  come  to  be  close  to  us  in  our  social  life,  I  want  them 
to  find  us  living  up  to  our  high  standards,  for  we  have  received  instruc- 
tions from  our  youth,  that  the  boy  shall  be  as  clean  and  as  chaste  as  the 
girl ;  that  there  is  no  double  standard,  and  that  each  one  of  us  regards 
preservation  of  chastity  as  more  precious  than  life  itself.  I  want  them, 
when  they  come,  to  find  us  living  up  to  our  high  privileges,  having 
entered  into  the  house  of  God  and  entered  into  sacred  contracts  with 
each  other  that  shall  endure  through  time  and  eternity,  that  we  are  not 
a  people  who  quickly  dissolve  our  marriage  contracts  as  the  world  does. 
Our  standard  today — our  record,  leads  the  world,  but  we  can  make  it 
better  than  it  is.  When  they  come  and  inspect  our  homes,  I  do  not  want 
them  to  find  homes  without  children.  I  want  them  to  find  typical  Latter- 
day  Saint  homes,  the  heritage  of  the  Lord,  children  welcomed  in  those 
homes,  that  make  them  ideal.  When  they  come  to  inspect  us  in  our 
business  relations,  I  want  them  to  find  a  Mormon's  word  still  as  good 
as  his  bond;  that  we  pay  our  debts  and  that  we  fulfill  our  contracts 
to  the  best  of  our  ability 

OPPORTUNITY  NOW  TO  GET  AHEAD 

When  they  come  to  find  us  in  our  material  possessions,  I  am  ex- 
ceedingly anxious  that  they  shall  find,  as  it  is  now,  a  larger  percentage 
of  our  people  owning  their  own  homes  than  any  other  people.  We 
are  not  quite  up  to  the  standards  of  our  fathers,  however.  I  would  like 
to  see  us  recover  our  former  positions.  *  When  they  come,  also,  to 
discover  the  status  of  our  farms  and  homes  I  hope  they  will  find  us  in 
a  more  favorable  condition  than  any  people,  that  we  have  freed  our 
homes  and  our  farms  from  the  mortgage  that  is  upon  them. 

I  would  like  to  say  this  to  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  I  feel  in 
my  heart  that  we,  as  a  people,  have  never  had  a  better  day  to  pay  our 
debts  than  right  now,  and  I  have  a  feeling  that  we  will  have  several  good 
years  to  do  that  in.  Somebody  misquoted,  or  at  least  misconstrued  my 
appeal  to  the  people  in  Arizona  to  store  up  food  for  the  care  of  the  poor, 
and  had  me  saying  that  a  great  panic  was  right  at  our  door.   As  far  as 


ELDER  MELVIN  I.  BALLARD 


23 


this  country  is  concerned  I  do  not  believe  that.  I  believe  that  there  are 
several  good  years  ahead  of  us  here.  Let  us  employ  them  to  get  out 
of  debt.  During  the  height  of  the  depression  I  said  in  several  places  that 
then  was  a  good  time  to  borrow  money,  because  you  could  not  borrow  very 
much,  and  no  matter  what  you  spent  it  for,  it  would  be  profitable.  Now 
is  a  good  time  to  pay  our  debts.  Let  us  free  ourselves,  if  we  can  con- 
sistently, now. 

SURROUNDINGS   PREACH   THE  GOSPEL 

I  am  exceedingly  anxious  that  as  they  come  to  see  Latter-day  Saint 
homes  they  will  be  impressed  that  here  are  people  who  love  culture. 
We  would  like  the  front  gate  to  preach  the  Gospel,  because  it  has  all  its 
pickets  on,  and  has  a  coat  of  paint  on  it.  We  would  like  to  see  the  homes 
in  which  we  live  as  beautiful  as  we  can  afford  to  make  them.  We  would 
like  them  surrounded  with  shrubbery  that  proclaims  our  love  of  the 
beautiful.  We  would  like  them  to  find  us  the  finest  civilization  there  is 
in  the  world. 

I  remember  a  few  years  ago,  when  there  stood  in  this  pulpit  a  great 
economist,  I  think  one  of  the  greatest  in  the  world,  who  had  been  visiting 
Utah  on  several  occasions  and  had  been  teaching  here  in  our  summer 
schools,  Dr.  Thomas  Nixon  Carver,  who  said, 

If  I  were  searching  the  whole  world  over  to  find  a  people  who  were 
building  an  advanced  civilization,  I  would  come  here  to  Utah  and  learn 
of  it  from  you  Mormons. 

A  RELIGION  THAT  SUSTAINS 

I  want  us  prepared  when  they  come  to  show  the  world  that  here 
is  a  religion  that  could  sustain  our  fathers  when  martyrdom  met 
them  and  took  their  leaders.  Here  is  a  religion  that  could  sustain 
our  fathers  when  they  were  driven  from  their  homes,  and  their 
homes  were  pillaged  and  burned,  sustained  them  when  they  journeyed 
across  the  plains ;  sustained  them  in  the  battle  with  the  wilderness  and 
supported  them  under  trials,  when  their  enemies  slandered  and  vilified 
them,  and  they  stood  like  beaten  anvils  under  it  all.  I  want  them  to  come 
and  find  us  in  our  prosperity  still  true  to  that  faith,  not  having  patterned 
after  the  ways  of  the  world.  Young  men  and  young  women,  God  never 
expected  you  to  be  like  the  world ;  not  to  be  imitators.  Your  mission  is 
to  be  pattern  makers,  to  hold  up  an  ensign,  to  create  hope  in  the  world 
and  faith  in  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  having  power  to  mold 
men's  hearts  to  conquer  their  weaknesses  and  make  them  susceptible 
to  live  up  to  the  high  standards  of  this  restored  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  ; 
and  all  of  it  is  to  fit  and  prepare  us  to  live  as  ladies  and  gentlemen  in  the 
presence  of  the  great  king,  God  the  eternal  Father. 

If  all  this  brought  human  misery — to  conquer  one's  appetite,  to 
subject  oneself  to  the  Gospel  standards — if  all  this  brought  unhappiness 
and  misery,  I  would  be  afraid  to  say  what  I  am  saying,  but  I  know  the 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


testimony  of  thousands  and  have  proven  it  in  my  own  experience,  that 
there  is  no  life  lived  on  this  earth  that  is  so  happy,  so  full  of  joy  and  satis- 
faction, so  abundant  in  health  and  life,  with  greater  spirituality  and 
greater  intelligence,  than  that  enjoyed  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  who 
live  up  to  these  Gospel  standards. 

JOY  IN  ACHIEVEMENT 

We  get  our  reward  here  and  now.  Our  joy,  our  achievements,  have 
brought  us  heaven  right  now,  and  it  is  preparing  us  for  an  eternal 
heaven  that  is  yet  to  come.  I  do  know  that  our  fathers  and  mothers 
were  great  men  and  women.  They  subdued  the  desert  and  conquered 
it,  but  I  know  that  we  have  a  greater  task,  to  conquer  ourselves,  to  master 
ourselves  and  subscribe  to  this  high  standard  of  living.  If  we  shall  do  it, 
when  the  ends  of  the  earth  come  to  see  us  they  will  learn  of  our  ways 
and  be  willing  to  walk  in  our  paths.  We  shall  find  a  joy  in  the  achieve- 
ment and  bring  honor  and  credit  to  the  work  of  God. 

God  bless  us  that  we  shall  be  ready  for  the  day  of  inspection.  It 
is  going  to  come — whether  you  are  ready  for  it  or  not.  I  trust  we 
shall  not  be  embarrassed,  but  that  we  shall  set  our  own  houses  in  order, 
where  we  need  to,  also  our  own  personal  lives,  and  make  a  great  con- 
tribution to  glorify  the  name  of  God  and  to  become  here,  on  the  tops 
of  these  mountains,  the  very  light  of  the  world,  the  hope  of  mankind, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

An  anthem,  "List  the  Cherubic  Host,"  (Gaul)  was  sung  by  the 
Singing  Mothers,  Mrs.  Emery  Epperson,  soloist. 

Elder  Stephen  L.  Chipman,  President  of  the  Salt  Lake  Temple, 
offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  second  session  of  the  Conference  convened  promptly  at  2  o'clock, 
Friday  afternoon,  October  1. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  furnished  the  music  for  this 
session,  and  sang  as  an  opening  number  "Unfold  Ye  Portals." 

Elder  David  Smith,  President  of  the  North  Idaho  Falls  Stake, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

An  anthem,  "Sleepers,  Wake!  A  Voice  is  Sounding,"  (J.  S.  Bach) 
was  sung  by  the  Singing  Mothers. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


25 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  have  enjoyed  the  spirit  and  instruction  of  this  Conference  so  far. 
I  feel  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  my  religion — the  religion 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  which  has  sustained  me  through  a  life  of 
nearly  seventy-seven  years,  meeting  every  religious  requirement,  sup- 
plying every  religious  need.  I  know  that  this  work  in  which  we  are 
engaged  is  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

TESTIMONY 

I  am  very  happy  in  the  knowledge  revealed  to  Joseph  Smith  in  the 
beginning  of  this  dispensation,  when  the  Father  and  the  Son  appeared 
unto  him.  I  know  that  that  revelation  is  true.  I  know  that  God,  the 
Eternal  Father,  lives  and,  contrary  to  the  views  of  the  great  majority 
of  mankind,  he  is  a  personage  having  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones  and 
spirit  as  tangible  as  is  the  body  of  man,  glorified  and  exalted,  the 
Creator  of  heaven  and  earth  and  all  things  therein  by  his  Son,  Jesus 
Christ ;  a  God  of  love,  of  mercy,  of  justice,  and  of  truth,  who  answers  the 
prayers  of  his  faithful  children.  I  know  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son 
of  God,  the  Savior  and  the  Redeemer  of  this  world,  chosen  and  ordained 
from  the  foundations  of  this  earth,  and  that  through  his  work  all  mankind 
are  redeemed  from  the  effects  of  the  fall  of  our  first  parents.  As  the 
scriptures  teach: 

Since  by  man  came  death,  by  man  came  also  the  resurrection  of  the 
dead, 

For  as  in  Adam  all  die,  even  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be  made  alive. 
(I  Cor.  15:21,  22) 

This  resurrection  is  necessary  in  order  that  we  may  have  bodies, 
reunited  spirit  and  element  of  body,  never  more  to  be  separated.  In 
that  condition  we  will  be  prepared  to  enter  the  kingdom  of  God,  provided 
we  meet  the  provisions  made  in  the  Gospel,  that  we  yield  obedience 
unto  the  laws  and  ordinances  thereof,  for  the  atonement  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior  is  to  redeem  us  of  our  individual  sins  on  condition  of  our 
obedience  unto  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel. 

I  know  to  my  perfect  satisfaction  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet 
of  God,  having  been  thoroughly  convinced  by  investigation  and  by  the 
Spirit  and  power  of  God,  and  his  works  prove  him  to  be  a  prophet  in 
very  deed,  inspired  of  the  Lord  as  he  was  in  life.  I  know  that  those 
who  have  succeeded  him  in  the  Presidency  of  this  Church  have  been 
God's  mouthpiece  unto  the  people,  inspired  from  on  high,  and  have 
directed  the  work  of  the  Lord,  as  it  has  progressed  and  prospered  con- 
tinuously, and  that  he  who  stands  at  the  head  of  the  Church  today,  as 
its  President,  is  a  man  of  God,  the  mouthpiece  and  prophet  of  the 
Lord  to  his  people  and  to  the  world,  inspired  from  on  high  for  the  great 
responsibilities  that  rest  upon  him 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


GOSPEL  THE  POWER  OF  GOD  UNTO  SALVATION 

This  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  as  Latter-day  Saints  is  none 
other  than  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  was  instituted  in  the 
councils  of  the  heavens  before  the  world  was;  that  which  was  taught 
by  the  Savior  and  his  disciples ;  that  of  which  the  Apostle  Paul  spoke 
in  writing  to  the  Galatians  when  he  said : 

But  though  we,  or  an  angel  from  heaven,  preach  any  other  Gospel 
unto  you  than  that  which  we  have  preached  unto  you,  let  him  be  accursed. 
(Gal.  1 :8) 

It  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  temporally  and  spiritually,  as 
has  been  already  explained  in  this  Conference.  It  is  the  law  by  which, 
all  mankind  are  to  be  judged,  and  by  it  condemned  or  justified  according 
to  merit.  Justice,  therefore,  demands  that  this  Gospel  shall  be  preached 
and  taught  to  all  men,  or,  as  the  scriptures  say : 

Until  the  law,  sin  was  in  the  world,  but  sin  is  not  imputed  where 
there  is  no  law. 

In  the  mercy  and  justice  of  God,  our  Eternal  Father,  this  Gospel  will 
be  taught  unto  all  men.  Those  who  have  not  had  the  privilege  of  hearing 
it  in  the  earth,  have  the  privilege  of  hearing  it  hereafter,  and  inasmuch  as 
there  are  ordinances  to  be  received  necessary  to  man's  salvation,  provision 
has  been  made  in  the  Gospel,  that  all  who  are  living  shall,  by  genealogical 
research,  find  out  and  know  their  ancestors  who  are  dead,  and  go  into 
the  temples  of  the  Lord  and  there  redeem  them,  by  receiving  for  them 
those  saving  ordinances  vicariously. 

This  Gospel  which  we  have  received  is  the  plan  by  which  our  Lord 
and  Savior  lived  while  he  was  here  in  the  flesh.  It  made  him  what  he 
was  in  life  and  what  he  is,  enthroned  in  glory,  at  the  right  hand  of  the 
Father.  It  is  intended  to  make  us  like  him,  to  save  us  with  him,  joint 
heirs  with  Jesus  Christ  of  all  that  the  Father  possesses. 

RESPONSIBILITY  TOWARD  OTHERS 

We  have  the  responsibility,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  to  preach  this 
Gospel  of  the  kingdom  to  all  the  world,  as  a  witness,  before  the  end 
shall  come.  For  more  than  a  century,  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  been 
engaged  in  this  important  work,  and  many  honest  souls,  from  many 
nations  and  from  the  islands  of  the  sea  have,  through  the  preaching  of 
the  Gospel  embraced  it  and  lived  their  religion.  Many  of  them  have 
gone  faithfully  to  their  reward. 

There  are  all  about  us  today  men  and  women  who  know  not  God, 
who  know  not  religion — the  true  religion  of  the  Master — nor  salvation, 
of  what  it  consists  and  how  it  may  be  attained.  They  are  in  deep  spiritual 
darkness  and  are  among  the  unfortunate  of  our  Father's  children.  We 
as  Latter-day  Saints  have  received  the  light,  and  we  know  the  way.  The 
responsibility  rests  upon  us  to  reach  out  for  those  who  are  groveling  in 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


27 


darkness.  I  think  of  the  parable  of  the  Savior,  the  rich  man  and  the  poor, 
and  the  consequences  of  neglect  of  the  living  to  feed  the  hungry  and 
to  clothe  the  naked,  and  minister  unto  the  human  needs  of  mankind.  That 
neglect  is  suffered  for  in  hell  and  torment,  so  the  scriptures  tell  us. 
and  I  remember,  too,  that  we  read,  in  the  scriptures  what  the  Lord  had 
to  say  to  Ezekiel.  The  responsibility  was  laid  upon  him,  as  a  watchman 
upon  the  towers  of  Zion,  to  warn  mankind,  and  he  was  told  that  if  he 
did  not  do  it  their  blood  would  be  upon  his  hands. 

I  do  hope  and  pray  that  we  as  Latter-day  Saints  as  a  Church,  and 
as  individuals,  may  be  able  to  wash  our  hands  clean  of  the  blood  and  sins 
of  this  generation,  by  looking  to  the  saving  of  the  souls  of  our  Father's 
children,  as  well  as  our  own.  In  looking  to  the  interests  and  the  salvation 
of  others  we  are  making  for  our  own  salvation  and  glory.  We  have 
our  dead  to  be  redeemed,  a  tremendous  responsibility  resting  upon  us. 
We  are  expected,  I  think,  to  do  more  than  anyone  of  us  is  able  to  do,  by 
going  into  the  temple  and  receiving  these  ordinances.  God  has  blessed 
us  with  the  abundance  of  this  earth,  and  I  think  he  expects  us  to  use 
liberally  of  the  wealth  that  he  has  placed  in  our  laps  in  the  redeeming 
of  our  dead.  This  can  be  done  by  employing  men  and  women  whose 
financial  conditions  are  such  that  otherwise  they  are  obliged  to  labor  for 
a  mere  pittance.  A  great  deal  of  the  labor  that  is  being  done  in  the 
temple  is  being  done  gratuitously.  It  is  only  one  element  of  that  work 
that  we  have  to  pay  for — a  proxy  to  do  the  work  for  us.  And  in 
employing  this  class  of  people,  I  feel  that  we  are  supporting  and  sustain- 
ing this  great  Church  movement.  We  are  feeding  the  hungry,  we  are 
clothing  the  naked.  We  are  ministering  unto  those  who  are  in  need, 
and  by  so  doing  we  place  ourselves  in  that  class  referred  to  as  being  on 
the  right  hand  of  the  Savior  when  he  shall  come,  and  to  whom  he  shall 
say: 

Come,  ye  blessed  of  my  Father,  inherit  the  kingdom  prepared  for  you 
from  the  foundation  of  the  world : 

For  I  was  an  hungered,  and  ye  gave  me  meat :  I  was  thirsty,  and  ye 
gave  me  drink :  I  was  a  stranger,  and  ye  took  me  in. 

There  is  an  abundance  in  this  world  and  to  spare.  The  Lord  has 
so  said  by  revelation.  Those  of  us  who  are  fortunate  should  look  to 
the  unfortunate,  for  that  is  religion  pure  and  undefiled.  We  ought  to 
be  willing  to  divide  what  we  have,  whether  it  be  much  or  little,  in  order 
to  prevent  suffering  among  the  children  of  men.  This  Gospel  is  one  of 
love,  of  sacrifice,  and  of  service,  from  beginning  to  end.  Both  the 
Father  and  the  Son  have  set  us  a  wonderful  example  with  respect  to 
these  principles.  As  we  read  in  the  scriptures, 

For  God  so  loved  the  world,  that  he  gave  his  only  begotten  Son,  that 
whosoever  believeth  in  him  should  not  perish,  but  have  everlasting  life. 
(John  3:16) 

The  Son  gave  himself  because  of  the  love  he  had  for  the  children  of 
men.   He  said, 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


...  I  lay  down  my  life,  that  I  might  take  it  again. 

No  man  taketh  it  from  me,  but  I  lay  it  down  of  myself.  (John 
10:17-18) 

Here  is  love  supreme — perfect  love,  the  love  of  a  God  manifest  in 
a  gift,  the  greatest  that  was  ever  given ;  his  sacrifice,  the  greatest  that  was 
ever  made;  in  service,  the  noblest,  the  most  important  that  ever  was 
rendered. 

We,  our  Father's  children,  are  expected  to  follow  their  example. 
Nothing  short  of  this  will  meet  the  requirements  of  the  Gospel  and  make 
for  our  eternal  satisfaction. 

May  the  Lord.help  us  to  see  our  duty  to  ourselves,  our  duty  to  our 
God  and  to  our  fellow  men,  living  and  dead,  to  discharge  ourselves  faith- 
fully while  in  line  of  these  duties  and  responsibilities  and  make  every 
preparation  necessary  for  the  life  which  is  to  come,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen 

ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  during  the  few  moments  that  I 
stand  before  you,  I  trust  that  I  may  have  not  only  an  interest  in  your 
faith  and  prayers  but  that  I  may  have  from  you  an  assurance  of  your 
desire  to  hear  the  truths  of  our  faith  and  to  further  all  that  God  desires 
you  to  do. 

As  a  child,  I  can  remember  these  great  gatherings,  these  conferences 
which  we  now  are  attending.  I  recall  distinctly  that  there  are  two  definite, 
fixed  things  in  my  mind  which  have  stayed  there  from  that  day  to 
this.  Those  two  things  were  a  knowledge  that  the  Lord  God  had  again 
come  to  earth  and  had  spoken  to  his  servant,  and  that  Christ  lived,  and 
that  through  him  we  were  actuated  and  did  those  things  which  God 
would  desire  us  to  do.  Even  as  John  has  recorded  concerning  the 
Christ,  so  was  the  belief  of  .our  people  then  and  of  our  people  now — that 
Christ  did  come,  that  Christ  did  live  and  that  he  and  his  works,  through 
the  children  of  men,  glorified  and  magnified  that  great  work  of  God. 

I  recall  distinctly  that  the  other  thing  which  left  its  impress  upon 
my  mind  was  the  fact  that  the  Priesthood  of  God  had  come  to  earth  and 
that  we  had  received  that  Priesthood  and  that  through  it  and  by  it  the 
things  which  we,  the  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  were  able 
to  accomplish,  were  made  possible. 

I  remember  as  a  lad  in  early  days  coming  to  Conference  and  seeing 
practically  hundreds,  yes,  thousands  of  horses  tied  on  the  outside  of  this 
block  and  tied  in  the  vacant  lots  around;  teams  that  were  hitched  to 
wagons,  to  white-tops,  and  buckboards.  Today,  with  the  march  of  time 
and  the  progress  of  the  Church,  we  come  here  now,  as  did  they,  as 
members  of  this  Church,  even  as  we  assembled  to  worship  and  give 
thanks  to  God  when  I  was  a  lad.  Now  we  wait  until  the  closing  of  each 
session  of  this  Conference  to  go  outside  and  find  patiently  waiting  for 
us,  not  horses,  but  the  latest  model  of  a  high-powered  automobile  and 


ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 


29 


when  we  reach  it,  there  it  stands  in  its  shimmering  colors  and  glory,  and 
all  we  have  to  do  is  to  turn  a  key  in  its  door  when  we  come  again  into 
this  Church.  But  that  same  spirit,  that  same  love,  and  that  same  hope 
which  actuated  our  fathers  and  mothers,  I  feel  very,  very  confident,  is 
here  today  and  actuates  us. 

There  are  some  things  which  to  us  are  the  dearest  things  in  the 
world.  I  think  two  of  these  things  are  a  knowledge  that  the  Lord  and 
Savior,  Jesus  Christ,  'did  come,  and  a  knowledge  that  the  Gospel  is 
preached  today  by  the  power  of  the  Priesthood  that  was  given  to  the 
apostles  anciently. 

John  says: 

We  know  that  the  Son  of  God  is  come  and  hath  given  to  us  an 
understanding  that  we  may  know  him  that  is  true;  and  we  are  in  him 
that  is  true,  even  in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ.  This  is  the  true  God,  the 
eternal  life. 

So  much  has  been  wrought  by  our  own  kindred  who  are  now  dead 
and  gone  through  a  knowledge  of  this  wonderful  thing  which  has  come 
unto  them  and  unto  us.  Man  is  given  many  powers  and  many  opportuni- 
ties. He  is  also  given  an  individuality  which  individuality  is  his  and 
cannot  be  taken  from  him.  He  has  his  love.  He  has  his  faith.  He  has 
his  understanding  of  Deity,  and  this  individuality  that  God  has  given 
each  of  us  is  held  absolutely  responsible  for  all  that  it  does  and  all  that 
shall  occur.  Even  so  in  life,  as  we  must  go  through  life  with  the 
individuality  which  God  has  given  us — we  cannot  barter  it  or  give  it  to 
another — on  into  death  we  carry  that  individuality  and  there  we  shall 
be  judged  according  to  the  things  that  we  have  done  here  upon  this 
earth  by  the  individuality  which  God  gave  us. 

Now,  with  that  understanding  and  with  that  knowledge,  we  must 
remember  that  man  has  within  himself  apparently  two  things  which  are 
opposed :  perfect  independence  and,  at  the  same  time,  perfect  union  and 
cohesion  with  a  few  or  with  many  members  of  a  body  such  as  is  this ; 
that  on  down  through  this  earth  life  of  ours  and  eternal  life  we  may 
march  and  walk  retaining,  at  the  same  time,  our  own  individuality. 

Some  things  have  come  into  our  lives,  however,  that  are  a  little 
different  from  the  olden  days.  A  new  note  is  sounding,  and  that  new 
note  has  been  ringing  around  this  world  into  every  nook  and  corner, 
conveying  somewhat  of  the  influence  which  the  Church  is  showing  and 
the  momentous  things  it  has  taken  hold  of  and  put  its  hand  to  do.  The 
name  of  this  Church  has  been  carried  everywhere  and  this  is  not  strange, 
because  we  expected  that.  But  back  to  us  has  come  the  echo  of  this 
great  broadcast,  and  that  echo  is  one  of  praise,  one  of  commendation. 
This  is  unusual,  rather  new,  a  startling  thing  for  us,  and  I  sincerely 
hope  and  trust  that  as  we  look  at  it,  as  we  listen  to  it,  and  as  we  calmly 
sense  that  this  has  come,  not  through  our  individual  effort  but  through 
the  mercy  and  the  blessing  of  the  Lord  God  Almighty,  through  the 
power  of  his  Priesthood,  that  we  shall,  with  meekness  and  humbleness, 
acknowledge  that  power  and  that  great  work  which  now  is  showered  upon 
the  heads  of  the  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saints,  and  praises  are  sung  to  it.  It  is  through  this  wonderful  thing, 
the  Priesthood,  that  this  has  all  come. 

I  wish  you  would,  when  you  can,  read  again  the  84th  Section  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  Study  it  and  think  of  it  and  see  if  it  does 
not  fit  us.  I  have  here  a  few  verses  which  I  would  like  to  read  to  you 
and  those  verses  on  the  Priesthood  are  as  follows : 

Which  priesthood  continueth  in  the  church  of  God  in  all  generations, 
and  is  without  beginning  of  days  or  end  of  years.  *  *  * 

And  this  greater  priesthood  administereth  the  gospel  and  holdeth  the 
key  of  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom,  even  the  key  of  the  knowledge  of  God. 

Therefore,  in  the  ordinances  thereof,  the  power  of  godliness  is  manifest. 

And  without  the  ordinances  thereof,  and  the  authority  of  the  priest- 
hood, the  power  of  godliness  is  not  manifest  unto  men  in  the  flesh; 

For  without  this  no  man  can  see  the  face  of  God,  even  the  Father, 
and  live.  *  *  * 

For  the  word  of  the  Lord  is  truth,  and  whatsoever  is  truth  is  light, 
and  whatsoever  is  light  is  Spirit,  even  the  Spirit  of  Jesus  Christ. 

And  the  Spirit  giveth  light  to  every  man  that  cometh  into  the  world; 
and  the  Spirit  enlighteneth  every  man  through  the  world,  that  hearkeneth 
to  the  voice  of  the  Spirit.  *  *  * 

And  this  revelation  unto  you,  and  commandment,  is  in  force  from 
this  very  hour  upon  all  the  world,  and  the  gospel  is  unto  all  who  have 
not  received  it.  *  *  * 

And  any  man  that  shall  go  and  preach  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom, 
and  fail  not  to-  continue  faithful  in  all  things,  shall  not  be  weary  in  mind, 
neither  darkened,  neither  in  body,  limb,  nor  joint;  and  a  hair  bf  his  head 
shall  not  fall  to  the  ground  unnoticed.  And  they  shall  not  go  hungry, 
neither  athirst.  *  *  * 

For  I,  the  Lord,  have  put  forth  my  hand  to  exert  the  powers  of  heaven ; 
ye  cannot  see  it  now,  yet  a  little  while  and  ye  shall  see  it,  and  know  that 
I  am,  and  that  I  will  come  and  reign  with  my  people. 

If  we  may  continue  to  have  that  same  sweet,  satisfying  faith  that 
was  possessed  by  our  fathers  and  mothers,  with  their  toil-worn  hands 
empty  though  they  were,  who  came  to  these  Conferences  and  attended 
them  for  the  spiritual  uplift  they  gave,  and  if  we  may  continue  ever 
onward  in  that  channel  and  in  that  path,  I  am  satisfied  that  God's 
blessings  will  be  upon  us,  and  I  ask  them  to  continue  so,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

This  thought  has  been  running  through  my  mind,  "Why  do  I  live?" 
It  is  bothering  me  a  good  deal.  Brother  Francis  M.  Lyman  said :  "Death 
is  nothing,  if  you  can  get  dead.  Why  fear  death?"  I  haven't  gotten 
rid  of  that  fear  yet. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  would  like  to  feel  that  I  am  one  of  your 
number  and  I  am  one  of  your  brothers,  and  I  have  tried  as  best  I  could, 
up  to  the  present  date,  to  fulfill  my  mission  and  complete  my  labors.  I 
am  not  afraid  of  the  Lord,  but  I  am  afraid  of  the  location.  I  do  not 
know  where  I  will  be  located.  I  hope  it  will  be  a  good  place. 

I  have  in  my  pocket  a  paper— I  haven't  got  it  in  my  mind ;  I  wish 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


31 


I  did.  There  is  a  book  published  called  "J-  Golden  Kimball,"  and  it  has 
been  sold  among  some  of  the  people.  In  this  book  Claude  Richards  has 
preserved  some  of  the  talks  that  I  have  made — most  of  them  talks  that 
I  have  made  in  the  Tabernacle.  I  am  very  glad  some  of  the  talks  I  have 
made  outside  were  not  printed.  We  will  forget  them.  I  discover  in 
checking  up  on  these  talks  that  there  have  been  forty-eight  made  by 
me  during  General  Church  Conferences.  Out  of  that  number  I  have 
selected  one  which  I  shall  not  attempt  to  read,  but  I  would  like  to  have 
the  permission  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  after  this  talk  has  been 
edited  and  looked  over,  to  publish  it  in  the  Conference  Pamphlet  as  the 
talk  that  I  would  like  to  make  on  this  occasion.  I  feel  that  it  is  so 
important  to  me  and  to  the  young  people  that  it  should  be  cried  out  from 
the  housetops. 

TALK  BY  ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 
October,  1926—11  Years  Ago 

"No  man  knoweth  how  much  good  he  does,  so  that  I  feel  to  encourage 
the  Priesthood  of  God.  We  never  know  how  much  good  we  do  when 
we  speak  in  the  name  of  the  Lord.  I  don't  believe,  I  can't  believe,  that 
I  ever  converted  a  man  in  my  life,  but  I  have  taught  the  truth,  I  have 
preached  the  Gospel,  and  my  voice  has  been  heard  from  Canada  to 
Mexico  more  times  than  once.  I  was  in  the  General  Board  of  the  Young 
Men's  Associations  for  thirty  years  and  I  have  never  had  greater  joy 
or  greater  happiness  than  in  lifting  up  my  voice  among  the  rising  gener- 
ation. How  much  good  we  do,  as  I  stated  before,  no  man  knoweth.  I 
claim  that  every  man  fills  his  niche  when  he  is  called  of  God  and  set 
apart  and  ordained  to  an  office.  He  may  not  fill  it  in  the  way  someone 
else  would  fill  it,  but  if  he  is  a  man  of  courage  he  will  fill  it  in  his  own 
way,  under  the  influence  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 

Like  my  father,  I  have  no  apology  to  make  for  my  origin.  I  was 
told  once  that  my  trouble  was  I  was  trying  to  be  like  my  father.  Well, 
thank  God  I  can  try  to  be  like  him  a  little,  but  I  was  too  young  when 
my  father  died  to  remember  his  mannerisms  and  his  method  of  speech. 

LUXURY  A  DANGER  TO  RISING  GENERATION 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  want  to  lift  up  a  danger  signal  to  the 
rising  generation.  In  doing  it  I  want  to  be  very  careful  of  the  way  in 
which  I  express  it;  I  shall  attempt  to  read  it,  although  it  is  against  my 
grain  to  do  so. 

This  great  country,  North  and  South  America,  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  declared,  is  Zion,  the  land  of  the  pure  in  heart.  It  would  seem 
to  me  that  a  great  responsibility  rests  particularly  with  the  young  men 
and  women  of  this  generation. 

The  question  naturally  arises:  What  is  the  trend  of  the  times  for 
modern  sons  and  daughters  of  Zion?  Riches  and  culture,  ease  and 
luxury.  Everything  is  money  and  money  is  everything.  The  golden 
key  unlocks  all  doors,  that  is,  it  prys  them  open. 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Plenty  of  money  entitles  you  to  anything :  honor,  society,  and  emolu- 
ments. The  rising  generation  who  are  poor  look  upon  this  pleasure- 
loving  people  with  envy  and  a  yearning  for  worldly  things.  And  as 
the  spirit  of  the  age  in  which  we  live  takes  hold  of  them,  they  assert 
their  individual  independence  and  break  away  from  what  are  called 
"old-fogy  ideas,  old  bigotries,  old  superstitions."  They  go  recklessly 
wild,  at  sixty  miles  an  hour,  claiming  what  is  termed  the  "new  liberty 
of  the  twentieth  century,"  and  run  daringly  into  forbidden  pastures. 
Today  all  over  America  we  see  everywhere  among  the  rich  and  poor, 
the  cultured,  educated,  and  ignorant,  the  indications  of  the  sensual  ten- 
dencies of  the  age,  and  we  forget  for  the  moment  the  degradation  and 
destruction  to  which  such  a  life  leads. 

SENSUAL  PLEASURE 

No  single  instance  can  be  given  as  evidence  that  unlawful  sensual 
pleasure  can  be  indulged  in  without  paying  for  it  a  thousand  times  in 
pain  and  remorse. 

The  danger  signals  are  set  up  at  the  gate  of  the  garden  of  sensual 
pleasure.  The  angel  stands  with  his  sword  of  flame,  and  no  man,  woman, 
youth,  or  maiden  enters  unsmitten  of  him.  "In  the  path  of  sensuality 
in  all  its  multitplied  forms  our  Heavenly  Father  has  placed  barriers 
mountain  high  to  stop  us  and  frighten  us  back  from  ruin,  disease,  and 
degradation." 

As  wealth  increases  in  any  country  and  with  any  people,  the  tendency 
to  sensuality  (through  the  many  temptations  of  ease,  idleness,  and  grati- 
fication of  one's  appetite,  the  elevation  of  fashion,  style,  and  living 
beyond  a  certain  point  of  safety  and  security)  is  the  cause  of  the  down- 
fall of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  God's  children. 

That  "money-devil,"  if  not  used  in  doing  good,  is  the  lion  right 
across  the  highway  of  our  future,  standing,  teasing,  menacing — just 
at  the  forks  of  the  road,  to  lead  us  to  ruin  and  unhappiness.  If  the 
roofs  could  be  lifted  off  the  palaces  of  the  rich,  what  sights  might  not 
be  seen,  what  skeletons  in  the  closets,  what  sorrows,  what  shams,  what 
sights. — -Watson. 

When  we  open  our  eyes  to  the  danger  that  menaces  the  rising 
generation,  life  would  seem  to  be  a  very  dangerous  sea  if  we  take  note 
of  the  ruined  thousands  that  strew  its  shores. 

DEATH   NOT  A  CALAMITY 

We,  therefore,  cannot  look  upon  death  as  a  great  sorrow  and  calamity 
when  it  involves  no  stain  of  honor  and  no  loss  of  character.  We  wisely 
conclude  the  hand  of  Providence  is  in  it,  and  good  must  come  out  of  it, 
and  we  are  comforted. 

When  we  contemplate  and  think  of  our  young  men  and  women 
with  their  bright  hopes  of  love,  of  truth  and  purity,  of  goodly  gifts  from 
God,  of  mind,  of  all  sweet  affections  and  aspirations,  gone  down,  blotted 
out  and  spoiled,  we  cannot  feel  otherwise — be  as  hopeful  and  cheerful 


ELDER  L  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


33 


as  we  may — that  lif  e  is  dangerous  unless  we  are  guided  and  influenced 
by  the  Holy  Spirit  and  directed  by  steady  hands,  by  men  and  women  as 
teachers  of  virtue,  truth  and  happiness,  who  are  not  afraid  to  speak  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord. 

BY  THEIR  FRUITS  YE  SHALL  KNOW  THEM 

The  fruit  of  religion  manifests  itself  in  the  lives  of  men.  "By 
their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them."  There  can  be  no  deception  by  men 
who  love  God.  and  keep  his  commandments.  We  are  one  and  all  God's 
children.  He  created  us  and  he  never  created  a  failure,  and  he  created 
you. 

HAPPINESS  THE  DESIGN  OF  OUR  CREATOR 

"Men  are  that  they  might  have  joy."  "Happiness  is  the  object 
and  design  of  our  creation  and  will  be  to  the  end  of  our  existence  if  we 
pursue  the  path  that  leads  to  it.  This  path  is  virtue,  uprightness,  faith- 
fulness, holiness."  To  keep  God's  commandments  we  must  know  them. 
To  know  them  we  must  read  the  scriptures  and  repent  and  be  in  tune 
with  the  Holy  Spirit  and  he  will  lead  us  into  all  truth  and  show  us  things 
to  come.  I  promise  you  that  you  shall  hear  a  voice  behind  you  saying, 
"This  is  the  way,  walk  ye  in  it." 

TEMPTATIONS 

Remember  this  always :  Temptation  somewhere  in  the  life  of  all 
finds  us,  as  this  life  is  a  testing  time.  Therefore,  watch  and  pray  and 
ask  God  to  leave  us  not  in  temptation  and  deliver  us  from  evil,  as 
temptation  is  ever  lying  in  wait,  and  in  a  thousand  forms  is  temptation 
repeated.  There  is  divine  wisdom  in  praying  always  and  avoiding  the 
very  appearance  of  evil. 

A  HELPING  HAND 

There  is  very  little  use  of  preaching  religion  or  morals,  or  honesty, 
virtue,  and  truthfulness  to  those  whose  motives  and  tendencies  all  point 
toward  vice  and  sensuality  unless  they  repent  and  sin  no  more.  These 
wild,  reckless,  dissipated  young  people  will  not  come  to  us,  so  we  must 
reach  out  a  helping  hand  and  go  to  them. 

RESPONSIBILITY  OF  PARENTS 

This  great  change  for  the  uplift  and  betterment  of  this  great  country 
— Zion,  the  pure  in  heart — rests  very  largely,  almost  entirely,  with  the 
home  and  the  parents. 

back  to  Christ's -religion 

We  must,  for  the  safety  of  the  youth  of  Zion,  come  back  to  Jesus 
Christ's  religion  and  its  spiritual  forces.  We  must  teach  the  gospel  of 
repentance  and  forgiveness  which  has  made  men's  and  women's  lives 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


happier,  tasks  lighter,  judgment  steadier,  as  it  truly  comforts  the  dis- 
consolate, forgotten  sinners,  and  leads  them  to  a  clear  life  of  virtue, 
love,  and  happiness.  No  child  of  God  can  escape  Christ's  religion. 
Intelligence  and  knowledge  of  the  right  kind  walk  ever  close  to  religion. 

ADVICE  TO  PARENTS 

My  conclusion  is :  There  is  just  one  great,  big,  lif e-and-death  duty 
of  the  parents  of  children,  the  church  and  the  state,  and  that  is  to  keep 
every  boy  and  girl  under  proper  schooling  and  give  to  them  "love, 
pleasure,  work,  and  worship." 

You  good  people  and  parents  living  on  your  farms  in  the  country, 
I  plead  with  you  not  to  send  your  children  to  cities,  where  the  beautiful 
spirit  of  things  God  created  perishes.  Let  them  live  in  the  open,  in  the 
beautiful  valleys,  on  the  mountains,  in  God's  sunshine,  near  streams, 
rivers,  and  trees  and  let  his  Spirit  teach  them  of  the  things  of  God. 

HAVE  GIVEN  BEST  EFFORT 

My  testimony,  brethren  and  sisters,  in  all  confidence,  is  that  I  know 
this  work  is  true.  I  have  tested  it  out.  I  have  found  God.  I  am  a  man 
of  weakness ;  I  am  a  man  full  of  faults ;  but  God  knows  I  have  given 
him  the  best  effort  there  was  in  me. 

GOD  LIVES 

i 

I  know  God  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world.  And  when  men  have  tempted  me  to  deny  this — which 
they  have  tried  to  do — I  have  talked  to  some  of  them,  learned  men,  I 
have  talked  to  doctors,  I  have  talked  to  young  men  who  have  gone  out 
and  filled  missions,  come  home  and  got  education,  and  they  have  tried 
to  burn  all  my  bridges  behind  me  but,  thank  God,  I  had  a  testimony  and 
I  know !  I  have  told  them :  "In  what  you  offer  me  there  is  no  happiness." 

JOSEPH  A  TRUE  PROPHET 

If  any  man  can  prove  to  me  that  Joseph  Smith  is  not  a  prophet  of 
God,  he  has  taken  everything;  he  has  burned  every  bridge  behind  me. 
I  never  saw  the  Prophet,  but  I  have  heard  my  father  talk  about  him  and 
I  have  read  his  revelations  and  his  prophecies,  and  I  know  they  are 
true.  He  is  a  Prophet  of  God.  I  sustain  the  Church  and  uphold  the 
hands  of  the  Priesthood  as  best  I  know  how.  God  bless  you.  Amen. 

The  Singing  Mothers  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "We 
Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet." 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  should  like  to  address  a  brief  message  to  the  young  people  of  the 
Church  who  are  just  now  entering  the  schools  and  colleges  of  the  land. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


35 


FAITH  BRINGS  HUMILITY 

I  expect  to  say  something  concerning  the  acquisition  and  retention 
of  the  philosophy  of  faith,  but  before  doing  so  I  should  like  to  mention 
some  of  its  attributes,  or  more  specifically  the  characteristics  with  which 
it  invests  those  who  subscribe  to  it.  In  the  first  place,  in  direct  contrast 
to  the  philosophy  of  self-sufficiency,  which  is  the  philosophy  of  the  world, 
faith  brings  to  a  man  humility — not  servility,  but  a  modest,  unpreten- 
tious, submissive  attitude  which  makes  him  conscious  of  and  amenable 
to  powers  and  forces  higher  and  more  potential  than  himself.  There  is 
in  my  estimation  no  good  reason  why  this  philosophy  of  humility  and 
faith  should  in  any  way  detract  from  man's  intelligence.  I  am  not 
prepared  to  say  that  there  have  not  been  times  in  the  world's  history 
when  men  have  unduly  leaned  upon  a  religious  faith  to  the  detriment  of 
the  cultivation  of  intelligence,  but  I  am  sure  that  in  this  day  of  enlight- 
enment, when  education  has  done  so  much  to  free  man  from  the  bondage 
of  superstition  and  error,  faith  is  no  hindrance  to  learning.  On  the 
contrary,  faith  begets  a  desire  for  knowledge,  and  what  is  even  more 
important,  it  establishes  a  perspective  in  the  acquisititon  of  knowledge 
that  is  truly  essential  in  the  appraisement  of  relative  values. 

STIMULATION  THROUGH  RECOGNITION  OF  HIGHER  POWER 

The  recognition  of  power  higher  than  man  himself  does  not  in 
any  sense  debase  him.  If  in  his  faith  he  ascribes  beneficence  and  high 
purpose  to  the  power  which  is  superior  to  himself,  he  envisions  a  higher 
destiny  and  nobler  attributes  for  his  kind  and  is  stimulated  and  encour- 
aged in  the  struggle  of  existence.  He  has  confidence  in  the  justice  of 
eternal  and  unchanging  law,  which  is  not  subject  to  the  caprice  and 
fitful  will  of  men. 

If  he  is  unsuccessful  in  his  ventures  in  worldly  affairs,  if  he  suffers 
defeat,  he  may  be  disappointed  and  sorrowful,  but  he  is  not  despondent 
and  he  is  not  bitter.  His  philosophy  does  not  despise  any  worthy  ma- 
terial accomplishment,  but  it  assigns  to  each  phase  of  living  its  proper 
place  in  the  eternal  scheme  of  things  so  that  no  one  in  the  household  of 
faith  is  ever  completely  discouraged,  unless,  unhappily,  he  loses  faith 
itself. 

To  the  man  who  is  successful  in  worldly  achievement,  faith  brings 
humility  in  lieu  of  arrogance,  without  robbing  the  able  man,  however, 
of  that  glow  of  satisfaction  which  ever  attends  noble  effort.  In  this 
philosophy  of  the  higher  realm  men  of  intelligence  and  skill  conceive 
the  part  they  play  in  life  as  missions  rather  than  careers,  fulfilling  their 
assignments  in  a  program  infinitely  greater  than  they  themselves  can 
devise,  utilizing  materials  and  facilities  and  forces  over  which,  by 
grace,  they  have  been  given  dominion,  and  subserving  purposes  eternal 
and  transcendently  beautiful. 

THE  HIGHEST  ORDER  OF  INTELLIGENCE 

These  men  of  intelligence  and  ability,  who  are  also  men  of  faith, 
would  tell  you,  if  you  asked  them,  that  faith  in  spiritual  realities  has 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


never  daunted  their  quest  for  knowledge  and  their  ambition  for  all 
legitimate  achievement,  and  I  think  they  will  tell  you,  if  you  press  them, 
that  the  highest  order  of  intelligence  they  have  discovered  in  their 
experience  is  that  intelligence  which  perceives  spiritual  concepts  and 
adequately  correlates  these  concepts  with  things  of  the  finite  world.  I 
am  very  sure  that  they  who  understand  faith  will  not  deprecate  the  mind 
which  it  blesses.  So  to  the  rich  or  poor,  the  high  or  lowly,  the  successful 
and  those  who  fail,  the  philosophy  of  faith  brings  stability,  poise,  com- 
posure, hope,  and  enduring  satisfaction.  It  is  a  vital  and  priceless 
acquisition.   It  is  not  always  easy  to  attain. 

FAITH  A  DIVINE  GIFT 

What  of  the  ways  of  securing  faith?  I  admit  that  difficulties 
are  to  be  encountered  because  a  man  cannot  really  know  what  faith  is 
until  he  has  experienced  it,  nor  can  he  really  experience  it  without 
recognizing  it  for  what  it  is.  It  is  rather  confusing  to  say  to  one  who 
denies  the  reality  of  spiritual  things,  "You,  sir,  cannot  know  what  faith 
is  because  you  have  never  had  it  and  you  cannot  get  it  as  long  as  you 
deny  it."  This  sounds  paradoxical,  but  in  reality  it  is  not  so  absurd  as 
it  sounds,  for  this  reason — faith  is  a  divine  gift  open  to  all  men  to 
receive,  if  only  their  attitude  and  life  will  permit  its  reception.  It  is  true 
only  the  faithful  know  this,  but  their  knowledge  of  it  is  so  certain  that 
they  never  despair  of  bringing  the  knowledge  to  others.  In  this  absolute 
certitude  of  the  faithful  lies  the  hope  and  promise  of  universal  con- 
version. 

AN  IMPORTANT  FIRST  STEP  IN  ACQUIRING  FAITH 

Now  I  propose  as  an  important  first  step  in  acquiring  faith,  particu- 
larly by  those  of  little  maturity  in  the  thinking  process,  a  recognition, 
of  the  difference  between  the  realm  of  things  spiritual  and  the  realm  of 
things  material ;  between  faith  and  spirit  on  the  one  hand,  and  mind  and 
matter  on  the  other.  It  is  always  desirable,  I  believe,  to  bear  in  mind  this 
distinction.  It  is  particularly  important  to  those  of  limited  years  or 
experience,  who  may  be  having  some  difficulty  in  their  thinking,  in 
making  certain  adjustments  and  reconciliations. 

Let  me  give  you  an  example :  A  young  man  raised  in  a  household 
of  faith  has  always  been  taught  to  pray.  He  has  assumed  and  felt, 
probably  without  much  thinking  about  it,  that  there  is  a  superior  power 
to  hear  and  answer  his  prayers.  This  young  man  goes  to  college.  Among 
his  studies  he  pursues  some  of  the  sciences — astronomy,  geology,  biology, 
let  us  say.  One  day,  perhaps  in  a  purely  casual  way,  someone  asks  him, 
"Do  you  pray?"  It  may  be  a  classmate,  or  even  a  teacher.  "Why 
certainly,"  he  replies.  "Why  shouldn't  I?"  "To  whom  do  you  pray?" 
is  the  next  question.  "Why,  to  God,  of  course."  "Where  is  your 
God?"  "What  is  he  like?  Have  you  ever  seen  him?  How  do  you 
know  he  exists?"  Well,  these  questions  he  can  not  so  easily  answer. 
He  pauses  for  reply,  and  in  that  pause  an  avalanche  of  new  thoughts 
and  novel  sensations  almost  overwhelm  him,  and  very  likely  in  real 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


37 


confusion  this  young  man  says  to  himself,  "How  do  I  know?  What 
do  I  really  know?"  • 

In  his  study  of  the  sciences  he  has  learned  something  of  the  scien- 
tific process.  He  knows  that  everything  must  be  demonstrated  before 
conclusions  can  legitimately  be  reached,  and  he  knows  that  the  demon- 
strations required  are  those  that  are  tangible  and  susceptible  of  very 
definite  and  positive  human  proof.  He  has  had  an  introduction  into 
the  realm  of  reason,  and  for  the  moment  at  least  the  methods  of  that 
realm  dominate  his  intelligence  and  his  senses.  How  fortunate  is  this 
young  man,  if,  after  the  first  rush  of  these  perplexing  thoughts,  it 
occurs  to  him  that  there  is  a  wide  difference  between  the  province  of 
science  and  reason  on  the  one  hand  and  that  of  the  spiritual  and  feeling 
on  the  other.  Now,  fully  aware  of  this  difference,  he  replies  to  his 
inquisitors,  "Why  yes,  I  know  that  God  lives.  I  do  not  know  where  he 
is,  I  have  never  seen  him,  but  I  am  perfectly  satisfied  that  he  exists, 
and  this  I  know  through  my  faith.  I  don't  ask  for  the  same  kind  of 
proof  and  demonstration  that  are  required  in  the  sciences.  I  am  not 
dealing  with  similar  matters.  My  faith  is  a  matter  of  feeling  and  inward 
conviction.  I  know  that  there  is  a  divine  world  as  well  as  I  know  that 
I  love  my  mother.  These  are  matters  of  feeling.  My  soul  is  satisfied. 
That  is  all  I  ask." 

MERELY  ARGUMENTS 

Now  I  would  not  have  you  think  that  the  young  man  of  my  illus- 
tration could  not  have  brought  to  the  support  of  his  conviction  many 
persuasive  and  convincing  arguments.  He  might  have  asked  his  in- 
quirers to  account  for  the  universe  with  its  illimitable  manifestations  of 
law  and  order  without  the  dominance  of  a  master  mind.  He  might  have 
brought  to  his  aid  the  records  of  sacred  and  profane  history,  the  universal 
prevalence  of  the  idea  of  Deity  among  all  nations  and  people,  the  in- 
comparable achievements  of  mankind  as  distinguished  from  all  other 
forms  of  animal  life,  and  many  other  pertinent  things;  but  after  all, 
these  matters  are  only  arguments  and  his  questioners  might  readily  have 
differed  with  him  in  the  deductions  to  be  drawn.  The  outcome  of  such 
a  debate,  with  no  judges  to  render  a  decision  on  the  issue,  is  very  fre- 
quently nothing  but  continuing  disagreement. 

A  DECLARATION  OF  FAITH 

But  how  is  it  with  a  declaration  of  faith?  What  can  an  opponent 
say  to  that  ?  He  may  say,  truthfully,  "I  don't  believe  what  you  believe. 
I  don't  believe  there  is  any  proof  for  the  assertions  you  make."  He 
might  even  question  the  sincerity  of  him  who  makes  the  declaration. 
These  things  he  could  do  with  justification  to  his  conscience,  if  that  were 
his  conviction  and  feeling,  but  he  could  go  no  farther.  It  does  not  lie 
within  his  power  to  know  either  that  the  subject  matter  of  the  testimony 
is  not  true  or  that  he  who  makes  the  declaration  does  not  know  of 
its  truth. 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  critic  is  confronted  with  a  situation  which  he  cannot  meet, 
because  the.  knowledge  which  he  seeks  to  disprove  is  of  a  realm  into 
which  he  cannot  enter  by  the  avenue  of  his  materialistic  reasoning.  If 
he  is  really  honest  and  logical  with  himself  he  must  retire  from  the 
controversy  with  the  thought,  "Maybe  he  does  know.  I  have  no  way 
of  finding  out." 

SPIRITUAL  EXERCISE 

That  brings  me  to  the  next  step  in  the  acquisition  of  faith  and 
testimony.  This  fanciful  critic  of  ours  or  any  other  like  him  can  find 
out,  if  he  will,  whether  or  not  the  testimony  is  true.  This  way  also 
seems  somewhat  paradoxical.  It  is  this :  One  may  secure  faith  by  doing 
the  things  that  he  would  do  and  being  the  kind  of  a  person  that  he 
would  be  if  he  had  faith.  In  other  words,  he  must  repose  enough  con- 
fidence at  the  beginning  of  his  inquiry  in  spiritual  realities  to  enable 
him  in  faith  to  undertake  spiritual  exercise  and  endeavor.  It  is  not 
enough  that  he  try  merely  the  form  of  spiritual  exercise  as  an  experiment. 
He  must  be  truly  humble.  He  will  have  to  forsake  the  philosophy  of 
self-sufficiency.  He  must  seek  believing,  praying,  and  hoping  that  he 
will  find.  No  such  sincere,  prayerful  effort  will  go  unrequited — that  is 
the  very  constitution  of  the  philosophy  of  faith. 

I  said  there  must  be  spiritual  exercise.  I  use  this  phrase  purposefully 
because  I  believe  that  it  connotes  something  that  is  indispensable,  not 
only  in  obtaining  faith  but  in  perpetuating  it.  I  do  not  need  to  argue  that 
it  is  exercise  of  our  faculties  that  brings  them  into  usefulness  and  a 
higher  state  of  perfection.  This  everyone  will  admit.  How  unfortunate 
it  seems  to  some  of  us  that  so  many  people  in  the  world  giving  full 
recognition  to  this  generally  accepted  principle  of  human  development 
decline  to  employ  it  as  it  pertains  to  spiritual  welfare  and  progress.  It 
may  be  that  it  is  because  there  is  involved  a  change  of  attitude,  a  change 
of  philosophy,  and  very  often  very  pronounced  changes  in  manner  of 
living.  We  can  readily  understand  how  difficult  it  is  for  many  persons 
to  make  such  changes.  It  is  more  difficult  to  understand  how  intelligent 
people  can  defend  an  unwillingness  to  make  the  effort. 

Spiritual  exercise  may  be  of  either  a  public  or  private  nature.  All 
open  participation  in  religious  and  Church  activities  is  calculated  to 
strengthen  spiritual  powers.  Such  participation  is  highly  desirable  and 
not  infrequently  is  it  regarded  as  the  chief  factor  in  the  culmination  of 
a  firm  testimony.  It  is,  however,  with  reference  to  private  spiritual 
exercise  that  I  feel  a  very  deep  concern  in  academic  life.  Thinking 
processes  in  all  institutions  of  higher  learning,  frequently  undergo  very 
radical  changes,  not  always  because  professors  or  instructors  intentionally 
promote  such  changes,  but  because  the  exposure  of  the  mind  to  new 
concepts,  new  principles  and  methods  very  frequently  brings  reactions 
and  complexes  that  are  altogether  unbidden  by  either  student  or  teacher. 
I  know  that  this  is  true  because  I  have  had  such  experiences  myself. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


39 


THOUGHTS  MUST  BE  DISCIPLINED 

Sometimes  thoughts  are  like  unruly  children — difficult  to  control.  I 
have  persuaded  myself,  however,  that  they  can  be  disciplined  and  often 
they  must  be  if  we  are  to  preserve  our  faith.  Let  me  illustrate  again 
with  a  fanciful  character.  He  may  be  a  student  or  even  a  professor, 
because,  after  all,  good  professors  are  always  students.  This  academic 
man  begins  to  ponder.  He  has  studied  and  he  has  done  a  good  deal  of 
scientific  thinking.  He  comes  on  to  a  number  of  perplexing  questions 
with  apparent  incompatibility  between  his  former  conceptions  of  faith 
and  the  new  things  which  he  learns.  What  about  the  age  of  the  earth? 
Was  Adam  really  the  first  man?  In  the  light  of  what  he  has  learned 
can  he  still  believe  in  the  miracles  as  reported  in  the  scriptures,  and 
coming  down  to  later  days,  can  the  story  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
be  true?  Was  he  really  visited  by  heavenly  beings?  Did  he  translate 
the  Book  of  Mormon  by  the  power  of  the  Lord  ?  Was  the  holy  Priesthood 
actually  bestowed  by  divine  messengers? 

It  is  while  he  is  contemplating  such  things,  even  though  he  is  loath 
to  let  go  of  his  once  simple  faith,  that  his  thoughts  spring  up  unbidden, 
almost  belligerently,  to  fight  down  his  erstwhile  convictions.  They  heckle 
him  and  they  challenge  him.  "What  do  you  know?  How  much  proof 
have  you?"  they  say.  "Why  don't  you  acknowledge,  in  the  face  of 
what  you  have  learned,  that  you  have  been  the  victim  of  a  delusion?" 
And  he  says  to  himself  in  answer  to  these  taunts,  "I  do  want  to  be 
intellectually  honest,  I  want  to  be  true  to  myself." 

Now  here  is  where  I  want  to  break  into  this  conversation  with 
himself.  I  want  to  ask  this  scholar  who  has  a  thinking  complex  of  the 
kind  which  I  have  mentioned,  this  question,  when  he  says,  "I  want 
to  be  true  to  myself" :  "What  part  of  yourself  is  it  to  which  you  want 
to  be  true?  Is  it  your  spiritual  self  or  this  new  man  of  science?  Is 
it  that  fellow  who  was  yourself  throughout  your  boyhood  and  your 
youth;  whom  your  mother  and  your  father  nurtured  so  carefully  and 
loved  so  much ;  who  was  so  confident  in  the  goodness  of  things  and  so 
happy  in  his  confidence ;  whose  pure  faith  held  such  high  promise  for 
his  people  and  those  who  loved  him?"  Now  if  this  is  the  part  of 
yourself  to  whom  you  wish  to  be  true,  I  think  I  can  tell  you  what  to  do. 
Just  say  to  those  skeptical,  disturbing,  rebellious  thoughts,  "I  propose 
to  stay  with  my  faith,  with  the  faith  of  my  people.  I  know  that  happiness 
and  contentment  are  there  and  I  forbid  you,  agnostic,  doubting  thoughts, 
to  destroy  the  house  of  my  faith.  I  acknowledge  that  I  do  not  under- 
stand the  processes  of  creation,  but  I  accept  the  fact  of  it.  I  grant  that 
I  cannot  explain  the  miracles  of  the  Bible  and  I  do  not  attempt  to  do 
so,  but  I  accept  God's  word.  I  wasn't  with  Joseph,  but  I  believe  him. 
My  faith  did  not  come  to  me  through  science  and  I  will  not  permit 
science  to  destroy  it.  When  I  change  my  mind  about  God  and  his  work, 
only  the  inspiration  of  God  will  change  it." 

You  may  think  all  this  evasive.  I  urge  you  to  try  it  before  deciding. 
I  am  as  proud  of  science  and  reason  and  their  marvelous  development 
as  I  think  I  should  be.    I  love  education.    It  is  the  promise  of  universal 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


peace  and  progress.  In  the  presence  of  a  master  mind,  penetrating, 
logical,  and  luminous,  I  stand  with  an  admiration  that  almost  approaches 
reverence.  I  want  to  think,  I  want  everyone  to  think,  for  thinking  is  the 
better  part  of  study.  I  believe,  however,  our  thoughts  may  be  disciplined 
without  stultification  of  our  intelligences  and  with  infinite  peace  and 
happiness  to  ourselves. 

A  CAUTION  AND  PROMISE 

In  conclusion,  my  dear  young  brothers  and  sisters,  I  issue  to  you 
another  caution  with  a  promise.  I  believe  that  an  observance  of  it  will 
be  more  potential  than  anything  I  have  mentioned  in  the  preservation 
of  your  faith.  It  is  this :  Never  depart  from  the  teachings  of  the  Church ; 
keep  every  commandment, — do  not  be  persuaded  that  you  can  violate 
any  one  with  impunity;  honor  God — and  I  promise  you  you  will  never 
lose  your  faith  in  him.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  with  you  today. 

A  few  months  ago  I  came  across  a  book  with  the  heading  "What 
Can  We  Believe?"  It  is  not  my  intention  to  discuss  the  problems 
within  the  book,  but  the  reading  of  its  statements  brought  to  my  mind 
some  of  the  conditions  that  are  perhaps  very  similar  to  those  which  we 
have  in  the  Church.  The  book  brings  up  the  question  of  the  higher 
and  the  lower  criticism  of  the  scriptures.  It  states  that  in  about  1900 
we  had  what  is  called  the  lower  criticism  of  our  scriptures,  and  then 
later  we  had  what  was  referred  to  as  the  higher  criticism. 

We  are  quite  familiar  with  the  discussions  and  methods  entailed 
in  this  type  of  work.  The  thought  back  of  this  investigation  was  that 
the  Bible  needed  a  certain  type  of  explanation  and  correction  so  that 
it  might  be  more  reliable  and  correct  because  of  more  modern  discoveries 
and  methods.  But  because  the  reviewers  were  sometimes  more  con- 
cerned with  the  letter  than  they  were  with  the  spirit  of  the  Book,  there 
was  created  in  the  minds  of  a  number  of  people  a  disbelief,  or  at  least 
a  skepticism,  in  the  scriptures  themselves.  A  revision  of  scripture  is 
not  necessarily  wrong  provided  that  the  necessity  is  there  and  the  men 
chosen  are  inspired  by  the  Lord  especially  in  the  matter  of  doctrine 
and  stated  facts. 

In  our  anxiety  to  place  our  own  scriptures,  including  the  Bible, 
before  the  people,  especially  the  young  people,  we  will,  if  not  very  careful, 
bring  about  a  loss  of  faith  because  as  soon  as  we  commence  to  analyze 
in  a  critical  way  many  of  its  statements  and  make  the  prophets  such 
very  ordinary,  common  men  in  order  to  show  reason  for  some  of  their 
statements,  we  arouse  in  the  hearts  and  minds  of  men  and  women  the 
question :  "Well,  what  can  we  believe  in  the  scriptures  ?" 

I  can  see  no  objection  to  analyzing  the  scripture  in  a  way  that  will 
help  people  understand  some  of  its  statements.   But  we  should  be  careful 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 


41 


that  we  do  not  go  to  the  extreme  in  our  Church  that  other  men  and  women 
have  gone  in  this  analysis,  stressing  words  and  losing  the  spirit  of  the 
message.  The  Lord  has  said  that  he  spoke  to  his  prophets  and  they 
wrote  and  spoke  as  they  were  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Some  explanations  and  change  of  viewpoint  may  be  needed  because 
of  recent  discoveries,  but  at  the  same  time  we  must  not  let  anyone  get 
away  from  the  thought  that  men  were  speaking  and  writing  by  the 
inspiration  and  power  of  God  and  that  the  scripture  is  the  word  of  the 
Lord,  and  was  given  to  us  by  him. 

A  while  ago  I  heard  the  thought  expressed  that  the  Church  should 
begin  a  revision  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  because  of  the  many  apparent 
mistakes  in  it  pertaining  to  the  division  of  chapters  and  verses,  also  in 
the  language  and  doctrine,  and  that  through  a  careful,  modern  revision 
the  book  could  be  more  easily  understood  and  be  freer  from  outside 
criticism.  In  my  opinion,  if  we  continue  to  move  along  those  lines  we 
may  gain  a  little  in  the  correctness  of  words  but  lose  considerable  in  our 
attitude  towards  the  book,  as  well  as  bring  doubt  into  the  thoughts  of 
men  and  women  concerning  the  inspiration  of  our  sacred  scriptures. 
Sometimes  in  our  anxiety  to  develop  faith  we  develop  disbelief. 

Criticism  may  be  helpful  or  detrimental,  helpful  if  it  increases  our 
knowledge  of  the  revealed  word,  detrimental  when  it  insists  on  an  inter- 
pretation that  is  not  in  harmony  with  the  whole  message  of  the  book  or 
the  accepted  doctrine  of  the  Church.  For  instance,  a  man  said  to  me 
the  other  day :  "Do  you  know  where  the  Lost  Tribes  are  ?" 

I  said :  "Well,  no,  I  do  not  know  where  they  are." 

"Well,"  he  said,  "do  you  think  they  are  at  the  North  Pole?" 

I  said:  "No,  I  do  not  know  if  they  are  up  at  the  North  Pole." 

(Of  course  the  Russians  and  others  were  flying  back  and  forth.) 

"Do  you  think  they  are  down  to  the  South  Pole  ?" 

I  told  him,  "No,  I  think  perhaps  they  are  not  there." 

He  said :  "Do  you  think  they  are  up  in  some  star  or  some  other 
place  ?" 

I  said :  "I  do  not  know  where  they  are.  All  that  I  can  tell  you  is  what 
President  Grant  has  said — that  they  are  lost." 

"Well,"  he  said  to  me,  "I  do  not  think  they  are  lost.  They  are 
found." 

Then  he  made  the  explanation  that  they  are  all  safely  located  over 
in  Europe,  and  that  they  are  gathering  here  in  Zion  and  bringing  their 
records  with  them.  (He  was  referring  to  their  genealogical  records.) 
I  might  have  argued,  "I  understood  that  the  ice  was  going  to  flow  down 
in  their  presence  when  they  came  forth." 

Likely  he  would  have  answered,  "But  the  ice  is  flowing  down  from 
the  north  all  the  time." 

Then  I  thought  of  the  idea  that  if  Christ  left  his  message  in  Jeru- 
salem, along  with  a  written  record  by  his  disciples  of  his  life  and  teach- 
ings, and  then  came  to  America  and  left  his  message  here,  and  the  Indians 
had  a  record  and  a  tradition  still  existing  among  them  concerning  the 
visit  of  the  Christ,  undoubtedly  the  Lost  Tribes  whom  Christ  said  he 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


was  going  to  visit  would  at  least  have  a  tradition  about  his  visit  among 
them  and  also,  I  believe,  a  written  record  as  in  the  other  two  cases. 

Well,  that  thought  is  going  the  rounds.  We  are  not  satisfied  to 
leave  things  as  they  are  and  wait  for  additional  revelation  from  the  Lord. 
To  many  it  is  embarrassing  to  talk  about  a  lost  people  when  to  all  appear- 
ances the  earth  has  been  thoroughly  explored.  In  order  to  harmonize  an 
apparent  discrepancy,  we  assume  an  explanation  instead  of  waiting  for 
revelation  on  the  subject.  This  bewilders  people  and  makes  them  think 
that  perhaps  Joseph  Smith  was  wrong  in  his  statement  concerning  the 
Ten  Tribes. 

Another  criticism  that  I  heard  the  other  day  was  about  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  which  indicates  how  prone  we  are  to  want  to  debate  the 
word  of  the  Lord  to  the  point  of  finding  fault  with  the  emphasis  the 
Authorities  of  the  Church  place  on  this  revelation. 

A  man  said,  "Why  is  it  that  we  preach  the  Word  of  Wisdom  all 
the  time?  Why  do  we  not  get  up-to-date  and  have  new  lines  and  new 
methods,  new  arguments  for  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  instead  of  doing 
the  way  we  have  been  doing  all  these  many  years  ?  Why,  we  have  been 
preaching  and  preaching;  you  never  go  to  a  meeting  but  what  you 
hear  about  it,  yet  today  there  are  more  people  in  the  Church  using 
liquor  and  breaking  the  Word  of  Wisdom  in  other  ways  than  we  have 
ever  had  before."  He  was  thus  indicating  that  we  have  not  been  accom- 
plishing anything  in  the  Church  so  far  as  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is 
concerned  and  that  our  methods  have  increased  the  breaking  of  the  com- 
mandment instead  of  decreasing  it. 

My  thought  in  mentioning  these  matters  is  that  we  have  so  many 
things  in  the  Church  that  are  established  by  the  word  of  the  Lord  and 
that  are  plain  and  easy  to  be  understood  under  the  Spirit  and  inspiration 
of  the  Lord,  and  when  we  try  to  complicate  these  things  or  the  doctrines 
and  principles  in  the  Church,  we  only  confuse  the  minds  of  men  and 
women  and  help  to  destroy  the  very  thing  we  are  trying  to  build  up 
in  the  hearts  of  these  people.  I  know  we  have  to  study,  we  have  to  be 
up-to-date,  we  have  to  progress,  we  must  not  be  static.  But  why  dis- 
courage people  unnecessarily  in  their  faith  in  the  scriptures  and  their 
faith  in  their  leaders  ? 

All  I  am  trying  to  say  is  that  we  ought  to  believe  and  follow  the 
thing  that  we  have  so  plainly  written  for  us  by  the  servants  of  God,  and 
when  we  cannot  understand  it  because  no  more  is  written,  let  us  be 
satisfied,  and  keep  this  faith  Brother  Richards  has  been  speaking  of  deep 
within  our  hearts  and  be  willing  to  accept  it  until  God  in  his  wisdom  and 
mercy  someday  makes  things  more  plain  to  us. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  do  this,  I  pray  in  Jesus'  name. 
Amen. 

BISHOP  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  being  present  with  you  at  this 
important  Conference.    I  have  enjoyed  the  spirit  of  this  meeting  and 


BISHOP  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON  43 


trust  that  which  I  shall  say  may  prove  profitable  and  faith-promoting  to 
everyone  present. 

I  was  impressed  in  listening  to  President  Grant  this  morning,  and 
desire  to  state  that  I  am  unqualifiedly  in  support  of  the  statement  he 
made  relative  to  that  which  is  expected  of  us.  I  am  grateful  to  the 
Lord  for  the  faith  that  I  have  in  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  and  my 
desire  to  live  in  accordance  with  every  principle  of  the  Gospel. 

I  was  interested,  also,  in  his  very  interesting  description  of  his 
visit  to  Europe  and  the  various  meetings  held  throughout  the  nations  of 
that  part  of  the  world.  It  brought  back  memories  to  me  of  two  missions 
that  I  fulfilled  over  in  Europe,  comprising  about  five  years,  between 
thirty  and  thirty-eight  years  ago. 

LARGER   CROPS   AND   BETTER  PRICES 

I  am  happy  to  be  with  you  under  such  favorable  conditions.  I  am 
grateful  for  the  improvement  generally  in  our  temporal  circumstances. 
As  you  realize,  the  past  season  in  this  intermountain  country  has  been 
very  favorable  from  a  climatic  standpoint,  which  is  a  very  important 
factor  in  our  temporal  progress.  The  result  has  been  that  the  crops 
generally  speaking,  throughout  the. intermountain  country,  and  I  think 
probably  throughout  the  nation  at  large,  have  been  bounteous.  Like- 
wise, better  prices  have  been  obtained. 

The  fact  is  that  those  who  are  engaged  in  farming  are  profitably 
enjoying  the  fruits  of  their  labors.  In  my  judgment,  the  prosperity  of 
this  nation,  or  any  nation,  depends,  in  very  large  measure,  upon  the 
prices  of  farm  products,  upon  the  availability  of  fertile  farm  lands,  and, 
also,  upon  favorable  climatic  conditions. 

EFFECT  OF  FARM  PRODUCTS  PRICES  ON  ECONOMIC  CONDITIONS 

As  I  examine  the  economic  charts  for  this  country,  covering  a  long 
period  of  time,  I  note  that  whenever  the  prices  of  farm  product's  have 
been  good  prosperity  has  prevailed,  and  when  farm  products  prices  have 
been  low  depression  has  generally  prevailed.  Prosperity  has  not  been 
dependent  primarily  upon  wages,  but  apparently,  as  an  important  factor, 
upon  fair  prices  for  the  farm  crops.  Therefore,  I  think  it  is  important, 
so  far  as  possible,  taking  into  account  the  laws  of  supply  and  demand 
and  the  fact  that  farmers  do  not  control  crop  production,  to  strive  to 
maintain  fair  prices.  It  does  not  appear  to  be  possible  in  agriculture, 
to  regulate  production  to  the  same  extent  that  it  is  practicable  to  do  in 
industry,  and  in  the  handling  of  commercial  undertakings.  The  natural 
tendency  of  those  engaged  in  agriculture  is,  when  any  product  yields 
good  prices  one  year,  to  plant  larger  crops  the  following  year,  with  a 
consequent  drop  in  prices.  Whatever  can  be  done  reasonably  to  regulate 
supply  to  conform  to  demand  should  be  done. 

WAGES  AND  INDUSTRIAL  PROGRESS 

There  is  no  particular  need  to  be  concerned  about  wages.  Wages 
tend  to  follow  general  economic  conditions.  When  times  are  prosperous, 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  wage  level  rises  steadily.  When  depressions  occur,  they  follow 
the  trend.-  Where  efforts  are  widely  made  to  force  wages  up  beyond 
reasonable  limits,  commercial  and  industrial  development  is  adversely 
affected.  On  the  other  hand,  there  are  instances  where  employers  take 
advantage  of  their  workers  and  fail  to  give  them  a  fair  return  for  their 
efforts.  This,  also,  interferes  with  economic  progress.  The  more  nearly 
commodity  prices,  in  general,  can  be  maintained  at  what  is  considered 
a  normal  level,  the  better  and  more  stable  will  be  the  economic  status. 
Commodity  prices  tend  to  increase,  naturally,  with  the  increase  in  the 
amount  and  velocity  of  money  in  circulation,  and  to  .decrease  with  the 
improvement  in  efficiency  of  production,  the  increase  in  volume  of  trade, 
and  the  growth  in  population.  We  are  very  fortunate,  at  the  present 
time,  under  the  favorable  conditions  which  prevail  in  industry  as  well  as 
in  agriculture.  Whether  the  general  rise  in  prices  is  a  natural  economic 
.  improvement,  or  whether  it  is  caused  artificially,  in  part,  by  the  large 
amount  of  Federal  funds  in  circulation,  remains  to  be  seen.  Likewise, 
the  causes  of  recent  financial  disturbance  are  not  clear. 

IMPROVEMENT  IN  FINANCIAL  CONDITIONS 

I  rejoice  in  reporting  to  you  that  the  tithes  of  the  Church  for  the 
first  six  months  of  this  year  show  an  increase  over  the  same  period 
of  last  year,  and  that  last  year's  tithes  showed  a  material  increase  over 
the  year  before.  This  is  an  index  of  the  financial  condition  of  Church 
members.  Likewise,  the  number  of  tithepayers  has  increased,  and  cor- 
respondingly with  the  growth  of  the  Church,  the  number  of  those  who 
should  pay  tithing  has  increased.  On  the  average,  there  are  about  25  % 
of  the  membership  of  the  Church  who  pay  their  tithing.  There  are  about 
15%  in  addition  who  should,  but  who  do  not  pay  tithing.  This  is  a  field 
for  encouragement  and  the  teaching  of  the  principle  of  tithing  by  Church 
officers.,  to  those  members  of  the  Church  who  have  not  shown  the  faith 
necessary  to  observe  the  principle  of  tithing.  There  are  those  who  have 
paid  donations  who  have  not  really  paid  a  tithing.  They  have  given 
their  donations  of  what  we  call  a  part  tithing,  and  yet  have  not  had  the 
spiritual  strength  and  the  unselfishness  to  be  willing  to  give  that  tenth 
which  the  Lord  expects  of  his  children,  for  the  advancement  and  ful- 
fillment of  his  promises  and  purposes  unto  his  people. 

RESPONSIBILITIES   OF   CHURCH  OFFICERS 

Great  responsibilities  rest  upon  all  the  officers  throughout  the 
Church.  They  are  not  occupying  places  of  responsibility  because  of 
any  personal  or  selfish  desires.  They  have  been  selected  because  of 
their  willingness  to  serve  and  for  their  diligence.  They  are  engaged  in 
this  work  because  they  are  assured  that  it  is  the  work  of  the  Lord.  They 
are  as  watchmen  upon  the  towers  to  safeguard  the  spiritual  welfare  and 
progress  of  the  people.  It  is  their  duty  to  teach  and  counsel  the  members 
to  observe  all  the  revelations  of  the  Lord,  and  to  perform  all  functions 
pertaining  to  their  duties.   When  they  teach  tithing  or  any  other  divine 


BISHOP  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON  45 


principle  they  know  that  those  who  obey  shall  receive  the  blessings  of 
God,  and  that  his  purposes  shall  be  most  fully  accomplished.  Heavy 
demands  are  made  upon  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  for  funds  to  carry 
out  all  the  things  that  are  desirable  and  necessary  for  the  building  up 
of  this  Church  at  home  and  abroad — the  great  missionary  work,  the  work 
of  religious  education,  the  construction  and  maintenance  of  Church 
buildings,  the  relief  needs,  the  Church  Security  Program,  and  all 
of  the  other  important  matters  needing  attention.  This  work  grows 
by  the  individual  and  collective  service  given  by  all  the  members, 
and  by  the  observance  of  the  divine  commandments  which  are  magnified 
by  the  Lord  for  the  achievement  of  his  plans.  There  is  no  occasion 
for  us  to  boast  about  the  progress  that  is  being  made  in  this  great  work. 
But  there  is  every  reason  for  us  all  to  be  profoundly  grateful  and 
appreciative  of  the  wonderful  manner  in  which  the  Lord  is  bringing  to 
pass  his  purposes.  And  we  need  to  manifest  our  gratitude  by  increased 
faith  in  every  principle  of  the  Gospel  and  greater  activity  in  his  cause. 

FASTING  AND  FAST  DONATIONS 

Further,  you  will  remember  'that  in  Conference  eighteen  months 
ago,  instructions  were  given  and  a  request  made  by  the  First  Presidency 
that  all  members  of  the  Church  faithfully  observe  the  monthly  Fast,  and 
give  the  equivalent  in  value  for  the  benefit  of  those  in  need.  It  was 
shown  that  the  equivalent  of  two  meals  would  amount  to  at  least  ten 
cents  per  month  for  every  member.  The  request  was  for  a  donation  of 
not  less  than  one  dollar  per  year  for  every  man,  woman  and  child  in 
the  Church.  There  has  been  considerable  improvement  in  this  respect, 
but  we  have  not  reached  the  goal  as  yet  which  is  expected  of  every  one 
of  us.  For  the  past  six  months,  the  reports  show  an  increase  of  53% 
in  the  Fast  offerings  over  the  same  period  of  last  year.  The  number 
who  have  paid  Fast  offerings  has  increased  about  31%.  Apparently, 
then,  since  there  has  not  been  a  proportionate  increase  in  the  number 
who  have  donated,  those  who  have  paid,  have  given  more.  Here  is  an 
opportunity  for  Church  officers  to  encourage  those  who  have  not  done 
their  part,  to  fulfill  this  duty  also.  The  average  Fast  offerings  per 
capita  paid  for  the  first  six  months  is  21.6  cents ;  whereas  it  should  be  at 
least  50  cents.  When  we  realize  how  efficiently  these  donations  are 
applied  directly  for  the  benefit  of  those  in  need,  we  should  all  be  ready 
and  willing  to  do  our  full  share,  and  thereby  get  the  spiritual  blessings 
that  attend  the  principle  of  Fasting. 

I  need  scarcely  repeat  the  fact  that  the  Fast  offering  is  a  donation 
that  should  not  cost  us  one  cent,  because  if  we  observe  the  principle 
we  do  not  sacrifice  anything  but  the  eating  of  food  for  two  meals ;  and 
the  value  of  those  two  meals  is  represented  by  the  amount  that  we  give 
for  Fast  offering;  so  one  dollar  per  capita  per  year  does  not  represent 
fully  what  the  members  of  the  Church  would  consume  i'f  they  did  not 
Fast  and  did  not  observe  this  donation. 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


STATISTICS  ON  RELIEF 

There  was  disbursed  during  the  six  months  period  to  those  in  need, 
through  the  regular  channels,  a  total  of  practically  $300,000,  which 
.  includes  $116,015  from  Fast  offerings,  $102,238  from  the  tithes,  $22,494 
from  Relief  Society  donations,  and  some  $58,534  from  other  sources, 
including  $15,648  through  the  Church  Security  Program.  This  total 
is  an  increase  of  97%  over  the  amount  distributed  for  the  needy  in  the 
same  period  of  1936.  The  number  of  persons  assisted  on  direct  relief 
was  16,163  and  those  helped  on  work  relief  was  8,110.  This  is  an 
increase  over  the  previous  year  of  51%.  As  of  June  30  it  appears  that 
there  were  1,912  persons  over  18  needing  employment.  Of  this  total 
it  appears  that  about  86%  were  unskilled  and  14%  skilled.  The  number 
taken  off  County  Relief  during  six  months  was  600. 

CHURCH  BUILDING  PROGRAM 

Another  program  of  great  importance  that  is  going  forward  steadily 
is  that  of  the  building  and  renovating  of  ward,  stake  and  mission  build- 
ings, seminaries,  institutes,  temples,  and  hospitals.  During  the  past 
months  there  has  been  expended  directly  from  Church  funds  something 
over  $800,000.  There  is  a  great  demand  at  the  present  time  for  new 
buildings,  improvements,  repairs  and  remodeling  of  buildings,  both 
for  the  various  wards  and  the  seminaries.  If  we  take  into  ac- 
count the  amount  raised  by  the  wards  as  their  portion,  there  has 
been  expended  thus  far  this  year  for  that  purpose  approximately 
$1,300,000.  There  have  been  192  buildings  under  construction  and 
remodeling.  Every  effort  has  been  made  to  expend  this  money  carefully, 
economically,  and  with  the  desire  to  obtain  the  best  results  possible  for 
the  money  expended,  and  to  provide  the  facilities  that  are  needed  for 
the  welfare  of  the  people.  Taking  this  into  account  you  can  understand 
that  care  must  be  exercised  and  proper  control  must  be  had  in  everything 
done  in  this  department  as  well  as  in  every  other  department,  in  order 
that  not  one  dollar  shall  be  spent  extravagantly,  or  unnecessarily,  for 
the  improvement  of  these  facilities  that  are  necessary  for  the  progress 
and  welfare  of  the  Church. 

TRAINING  IN  BUILDING  CONSTRUCTION 

The  people  are  making  great  sacrifices.  We  are  endeavoring  to  train 
apprentices  in  connection  with  building  projects  in  the  various  localities 
so  that  through  practice  and  under  proper  supervision  they  may  gradu- 
ally qualify  in  the  various  crafts  for  future  building  operations. 

You  will  realize  that  in  the  construction  of  buildings  a  very  small 
proportion  of  the  cost  is  for  unskilled  labor.  The  large  proportion  of 
the  labor  cost  is  paid  to  those  who  are  skilled  men  in  various  trades.  We 
have  fallen  behind  the  conditions  that  prevailed  in  the  early  history  of 
the  Church  in  these  various  communities.  Then  there  were  many  skilled 
artisans,  men  who  could  build,  who  knew  their  crafts  thoroughly,  who 


BISHOP  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON  47 


had  been  trained  largely  in  European  countries.  We  were  learning  then 
to  use  the  hand  as  well  as  the  head,  to  a  much  larger  extent  than  we  are 
learning  today.  It  is  a  challenge  to  our  young  people,  especially  to  our 
young  men,  in  the  various  communities  of  the  Church  to  qualify  to  build 
the  houses  and  other  buildings  that  are  necessary  in  their  growth.  We 
would  like  to  be  able  to  encourage  the  wards  in  such  a  way  that  they  may 
be  able  to  furnish  all  necessary  labor  for  their  projects ;  but  the  fact 
that  so  few  are  prepared  to  qualify  to  do  the  skilled  part  of  the  work  is 
one  of  the  hindrances  and  difficulties  that  stand  in  the  way. 

COUNTING  THE  COST 

One  of  the  things  we  are  telling  the  brethren  in  the  various  wards 
is  that  sometimes  in  their  haste  and  in  their  enthusiasm  to  go  forward 
with  any  project  they  forget  the  lesson  contained  in  a  parable  used 
by  the  Savior.  We  are  employing  it  rather  literally.  I  would  like  to  read 
it  to  you : 

For  which  of  you,  intending  to  build  a  tower,  sitteth  not  down  first, 
and  counteth  the  cost,  whether  he  have  sufficient  to  finish  it? 

Lest  haply,  after  he  hath  laid  the  foundation,  and  is  not  able  to  finish 
it,  all  that  behold  it  begin  to  mock  him, 

Saying,  This  man  began  to  build,  and  was  not  able  to  finish.  (Luke 
14:28-30.) 

Within  the  last  few  years  the  borrowing  of  money  for  the  construc- 
tion of  Church  buildings  has  been  stopped.  In  addition  we  have  been 
endeavoring  to  get  the  people  to  pay  their  ward  debts,  with  the  result 
that,  in  spite  of  unfavorable  economic  conditions,  these  debts  have  been 
steadily  reduced  year  by  year,  until  now  they  are  only  about  30%  of  the 
original  amounts.  You  will  realize  how  important  it  is  that  the'  wards  be 
prepared  to  undertake  to  do  their  part  of  the  building  when  it  is  author- 
ized, so  that  they  may  not  be  held  up  or  forced  to  stop  for  a  period  during 
its  construction.  In  one  or  two  instances,  such  a  condition  has  prevailed. 
It  is  very  unfortunate.  Almost  identically  these  words  of  the  Savior 
have  been  expressed  by  people  who  have  passed  such  buildings  and  seen 
them  unfinished.  They  have  ridiculed  those  persons  responsible  for 
failure  to  adequately  prepare  for  the  undertaking. 

So  it  is  a  challenge  to  us  all  to  be  thoroughly  prepared  when  we 
undertake  anything  in  life  to  carry  through  to  a  successful  conclusion 
and  in  conformity  with  our  plans.  In  this  connection,  I  would  like 
to  call  your  attention  to  other  instructions  which  the  Savior  gave  in 
connection  with  this  parable :  'Whosoever  doth  not  bear  his  cross,  and 
come  after  me,  cannot  be  my  disciple."  (Luke  14:27)  And  again,  "No 
man,  having  put  his  hand  to  the  plow,  and  looking  back,  is  fit  for  the 
Kingdom  of  God."  (Luke  9:62)  Therefore,  when  we  undertake  to  put 
our  hands  to  the  plow  as  disciples  of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ,  we  must  count 
the  cost,  and  prepare  ourselves  to  go  forward  throughout  our  lives  in  his 
service  if  we  expect  to  gain  the  blessings  and  benefits  which  come  from 
membership  in  his  Church,  and  adherence  to  his  principles,  as  they  have 
been  revealed  unto  us. 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  pray  that  the  Lord  may  help  every  one  of  us  to  sense  these  things 
and  to  learn  these  lessons  that  will  help  us  and  our  children, — our  young 
people, — to  learn  the  foundation  of  faith,  to  develop  understanding  of 
faith,  to  seek  and  gain  that  faith  in  God  which  will  enable  them  to 
be  true  to  every  principle  of  the  Gospel  and  go  forward  and  serve  the 
Lord  with  full  purpose  of  heart,  which  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

An  anthem,  "Holy,  Holy,  Lord  God  Almighty"  (Gounod)  was  sung 
by  the  Singing  Mothers,  Sister  Margaret  Hewlett,  soloist. 

Elder  Ralph  E.  Woolley,  President  of  the  Oahu  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10 :00  a.  m.  Saturday,  October  2. 

SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Saturday  morning,  October  2  at  10  o'clock. 

Musical  numbers  for  this  session  of  the  Conference  were  given  by 
the  Nebo  Stake  Choir,  under  the  direction  of  Elder  Carl  Nelson. 

"The  Lord  is  My  Shepherd,"  was  sung  by  the  Choir  as  an  opening 
selection. 

•  Elder  James  L.  Hatch,  President  of  the  Panguitch  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

The  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Consider  the  Lilies." 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

PERILOUS  TIMES 

We  are  living  in  perilous  times.  The  conditions  in  many  parts  of 
the  world  are  as  uncertain  and  disturbed  as  they  could  be  without  armed 
conflict.  Spain  is  involved  in  civil  war  at  the  present  time.  That  is  not 
far  from  where  the  Savior  of  the  world  lived  in  mortality,  where  the 
Gospel  of  peace  was  preached  by  him  and  his  disciples,  and  where  thou- 
sands of  people  undoubtedly  heard  the  truth  from  the  lips  of  the  Master 
himself  or  from  those  whom  he  sent  when  he  told  them  to  go  into  all 
the  world  and  preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature,  and  they  that  believed 
and  were  baptized  would  be  saved  and  they  that  believed  not  would  be 
damned.  Nearly  two  thousand  years  have  passed  since  that  warning  was 
delivered  and  the  great  majority  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  are  not 
yet  converted  to  the  message  of  love,  but  the  destructive  power  of  the 
adversary  intensifies  as  the  years  roll  by. 

I  stand  before  you  exceedingly  nervous,  realizing  what  a  responsi- 
bility is  mine,  and  pray  for  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  that  we  may 
all  be  edified  by  what  we  hear  and  feel. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


49 


REPENTANCE  AND  HUMILITY  NEEDED 

As  we  analyze  the  situation  we  must  come  to  the  conclusion  that 
there  never  was  a  time  in  the  world's  history  when  there  was  greater 
necessity  everywhere  for  men  to  repent  of  their  sins  and  seek  the  guidance 
of  our  Heavenly  Father.  There  has  never  been  a  time  since  the  Church 
was  organized  when  there  was  greater  need  for  us  to  humble  ourselves 
before  the  Lord  and  seek  his  guidance. 

There  are  many  people  who  think  themselves  competent  to  lead  us 
out  of  our  difficulties  and  without  hesitation  they  come  forward  with 
suggestions  to  try  this  or  that  as  an  experiment.  And  yet  our  Heavenly 
Father  has  advised  us  that  the  only  plan  that  will  produce  satisfactory 
results  and  take  us  back  into  his  presence  is  the  plan  of  eternal  life, 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  advocated  by  his  beloved  Son. 

The  wisdom  of  the  world  is  not  sufficient.  What  we  need  in  the 
midst  of  our  distresses  is  the  wisdom  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  And 
how  shall  we  obtain  it?  Will  it  be  by  selfishness?  I  think  not.  Will 
we  obtain  it  by  arrogance,  unmindful  of  the  rights  of  others?  Certainly 
not.  Will  we  obtain  it  by  fault  finding  and  criticizing  those  who  are 
seeking  unselfishly  to  bless  mankind?  No,  never.  The  Lord  has  told 
us  that  we  may  obtain  the  inspiration  that  we  always  need  by  living 
righteous  lives  and  by  .prayer  and  thanksgiving.  He  has  said  that  when 
even  two  or  three  shall  meet  together  in  his  name  he  will  be  there  to 
bless  them.  This  great  audience  of  thousands  of  people  has  met  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  and  I  have  no  doubt  that  he  will  bless  us. 

This  is  a  glorious  autumn  day.  Outside  the  sun  is  shining,  birds  are 
singing,  flowers  are  blooming,  and  inside  this  great  Tabernacle  there  is 
peace  and  quiet  and  the  spirit  of  worship.  With  all  my  heart  I  feel 
to  thank  my  Heavenly  Father  that  I  am  here. 

THE  PATHWAY  TO  THE  CELESTIAL  KINGDOM 

The  Lord,  when  he  placed  our  first  parents  on  the  earth,  gave  them 
instructions  and  from  time  to  time  he  has  sent  his  prophets  to  counsel 
their  descendants.  We  have  in  the  Old  and  the  New  Testament  the  teach- 
ings of  the  Lord,  not  of  man,  but  the  advice  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
intended  to  direct  us  along  the  pathway  that  will  eventually  terminate 
in  the  celestial  kingdom.  How  wonderful  it  is  to  know  that  there  is 
a  pathway  leading  to  a  glorious  kingdom. 

The  Ten  Commandments  given  to  ancient  Israel  are  a  guide  to 
safety  and  eternal  happiness.  Whenever  we  violate  any  of  them  we 
are  not  in  the  narrow  way.  We  are  told  that  strait  is  the  gate  and 
narrow  the  way  which  leadeth  unto  life,  and  if  we  would  be  in  that  narrow 
way  we  must  keep  his  commandments. 

When  Jesus  of  Nazareth  was  upon  the  earth  he  pleaded  with  men 
to  live  righteous  lives  in  preparation  for  immortality,  and  he  gave  his 
life,  demonstrating  that  he  was  not  afraid  to  die  and  that  the  resurrec- 
tion was  a  reality,  and  after  he  was  raised  from  the  dead  he  continued 
to  advise  the  people  how  to  live  and  when  they  have  followed  that  advice 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


they  have  rejoiced  in  the  blessings  of  mortal  life  and  in  the  assurance 
of  eternal  life. 

THE  PRICE  OF  PEACE  AND  HAPPINESS 

The  Book  of  Mormon  tells  us  that  there  was  one  long  period  of 
time  when  the  people  were  righteous  and  that  was  the  two  hundred 
years  after  the  appearance  of  our  Savior  on  this  western  hemisphere. 
They  repented  of  their  sins,  turned  to  the  Lord  and  were  prosperous 
and  happy. 

When  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  was  established  in  this  dispensation 
the  Lord  repeated  what  he  has  said  so  many  times  in  the  Old  and  New 
Testaments,  that  the  price  of  peace  and  happiness  is  righteousness. 
Notwithstanding  that  knowledge  there  are  many  who  appear  to  think 
that  we  can  obtain  happiness  in  some  other  way  but  we  should  all  know 
by  this  time  that  there  is  no  other  way  and  only  sorrow  and  disappoint- 
ment will  result  from  disobeying  the  Father  of  our  spirits.  We  live 
in  a  day  when  there  are.  many  temptations  to  evil  and  each  one  who 
submits  himself  to  any  of  them  loses  a  blessing. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  received  a  revelation  from  our  Heavenly 
Father  called  the  Word  of  Wisdom  in  which  we  are  advised  not  to  use 
stimulants  and  narcotics.  There  are  some  among  us  who  ignore  the 
advice  given  in  that  revelation  and  drink  liquor  and  use  tobacco,  knowing 
that  the  penalty  must  be  paid  and  the  blessing  forfeited  that  would  follow 
obedience.  Why  is  it  that  it  is  so  difficult  for  some  people  to  comprehend 
that  there  is  no  happiness  or  benefit  in  violating  the  wise  counsel  of  our 
Heavenly  Father  ? 

He  has  taught  us  that  we  must  observe  the  Sabbath  Day  to  keep 
it  holy.  One  day  of  the  seven  he  has  set  apart  as  his  day,  and  in  considera- 
tion of  all  his  blessings  bestowed  upon  us  on  the  other  days  it  would 
appear  to  me  that  we  ought  to  find  joy  in  doing  the  things  that  he  asks 
us  to  do  on  his  holy  day,  and  I  believe  that  unless  we  do  we  will  find 
no  happiness  that  is  worthy  of  the  name.  He  wants  us  to  be  happy  and 
has  told  us  how  we  may  earn  that  happiness. 

FLYING  IN  A  FOG 

One  day  I  boarded  an  airplane  at  Los  Angeles.  It  was  foggy  and 
they  held  us  on  the  ground  for  some  time,  but  finally  word  came  that 
we  might  start.  The  plane  taxied  down  the  field,  left  the  ground,  soared 
up  into  the  air  and  ascended  above  the  fog  into  glorious  sunshine.  We 
could  see  the  top  of  a  mountain  that  gave  the  pilot  our  direction  toward 
Salt  Lake  City. 

We  were  soon  crossing  Nevada.  The  view  from  the  plane  was  de- 
lightful. Near  Milford,  Utah,  we  suddenly  flew  into  one  of  the  worst 
fogs  I  have  ever  seen.  I  tried  to  look  out  of  the  window  of  the  plane 
but  could  not  see  anything  through  the  fog.  Not  a  thing  could  be  seen 
in  any  direction  outside  the  plane. 

I  knew  that  we  were  approaching  the  mountains  at  the  approximate 
rate  of  three  miles  a  minute,  that  we  were  compelled  to  pass  over  them 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


51 


to  get  into  the  Salt  Lake  Valley.  I  was  worried  and  asked  myself,  "How 
can  the  pilot  find  the  way  when  he  cannot  see  a  thing  ?"  He  had  his 
compass  but  the  plane  might  drift  off  its  course.  He  had  instruments 
indicating  our  distance  above  sea  level  but  he  had  no  way  of  knowing 
how  far  we  were  from  the  ground.  I  thought  he  might  fly  high  enough  to 
clear  the  mountains  between  us  and  the  Salt  Lake  Valley  and  try  to 
find  the  landing  field  by  the  flash  of  the  beacons  if  we  got  close  enough, 
but  I  chilled  when  I  thought  of  the  danger  of  losing  our  way  and  missing 
the  beacons  and  the  airport. 

AN  ELECTRIC  HIGHWAY 

In  my  anxiety  I  went  up  into  the  space  that  was  occupied  by  the 
pilot  and  the  co-pilot  to  see  how  they  knew  where  we  were  going.  I 
could  not  tell  whether  we  were  a  hundred  feet,  a  thousand  feet  or  ten 
thousand  feet  above  the  ground  and  I  did  not  know  how  they  could  tell, 
except  approximately.  I  noticed  that  the  pilot  had  a  little  device  over 
his  ear  like  operators  in  telephone  offices  use  to  receive  with.  I  inquired 
of  the  co-pilot  how  they  could  tell  whether  we  were  flying  in  the  right 
direction  or  know  if  we  were  off  course.  He  replied,  "When  we  cannot 
see  we  are  guided  by  the  radio  beam."  "What  is  that?"  I  asked..  He 
explained  that  the  beam  might  be  likened  to  an  electric  highway  between 
two  points  and  in  our  case  the  points  were  Milford  and  Salt  Lake  City. 
He  said  that  the  device  over  the  pilot's  ear  operated  so  that  when  the 
plane  was  in  the  beam  a  low,  purring  sound  continued  to  be  heard,  but 
if  the  plane  goes  to  the  right  or  left  the  sound  changes  and  the  pilot  is 
warned  by  a  clicking  as  of  a  telegraph  key.  If  he  hears  two  dots  and  a 
dash  he  knows  he  is  leaving  the  beam  to  the  right;  if  two  dashes  and  a 
dot  he  is  leaving  the  beam  to  the  left  and  he  immediately  pulls  back 
to  the  beam  or  highway,  on  to  the  path  of  safety,  the  clicking  ceases  and 
the  purring  resumes.  If  we  continue  on  the  beam  we  will  arrive  at  our 
destination  in  safety. 

'  I  returned  to  my  seat  greatly  comforted  to  know  that  notwithstand- 
ing we  were  enveloped  in  fog  and  darkness  and  could  neither  see  nor  feel 
where  we  were  the  pilot  was  receiving  information  constantly  that  we  were 
on  the  highway  and  he  knew  that  we  would  soon  arrive  at  our  destination. 
A  few  minutes  later  I  felt  the  plane  descending.  We  had  passed  over 
the  mountain  tops  and  were  nearing  the  airport.  When  we  were  nearly 
down  we  could  see  the  powerful  lights  of  the  field  indicating  where  to 
land  and  the  plane  with  its  precious  cargo  touched  the  ground  gently 
as  a  seagull  lights  on  water,  slowly  came  to  a  stop  and  we  stepped 
from  our  conveyance  to  the  ground,  happy  to  be  at  home  again. 

Not  long  after  the  trip  I  have  described  to  you  another  passenger 
plane  flying  from  Los  Angeles  to  Salt  Lake  over  the  same  course  became 
lost  in  the  darkness.  For  some  unknown  reason  the  pilot  failed  to 
follow  the  radio  beam.  They  crashed  on  a  granite  peak  about  twenty-five 
miles  south  of  here  and  it  was  months  before  any  of  th;  bodies  were 
recovered. 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


FOLLOWING  THE  CHARTED  COURSE 

I  have  thought  many  times  of  the  lesson  I  learned  on  the  plane  and 
have  applied  it  to  experience  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  We  are  passengers  on  the  good  ship  Zion.  Jesus  Christ, 
our  Lord,  is  the  real  pilot.  He  charted  the  course;  he  knows  every 
island  and  rock  on  the  way  and  has  placed  beacons  to  guide  us  safely 
to  our  destination. 

Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  we  are  members  of  his  Church  we 
will  not  obtain  an  inheritance  in  the  celestial  kingdom  except  on  condition 
that  we  follow  the  course  that  he  has  charted.  Each  of  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments is  a  beacon  warning  us  of  danger.  The  Word  of  Wisdom 
is  a  beacon  for  our  guidance  and  protection,  as  are  all  the  counsels  of  the 
Lord  to  us.  If  we  are  living  as  we  know  that  we  should  we  are  entitled 
to  the  whispering  of  a  still  small  voice  calling  attention  to  danger  saying 
this  is  the  pathway  of  safety,  walk  ye  in  it.  We  are  not  in  that  pathway 
when  we  profane,  when  we  disobey  the  Lord's  command  to  keep  the 
Sabbath  Day  holy  or  when  we  are  unjust  to  one  another.  If  we  have 
erred  in  our  conduct  the  voice  will  whisper  to  us  "turn  back,  you  have 
made  a  mistake;  you  have  disregarded  the  advice  of  your  Heavenly 
Father."  Turn  from  the  error  of  your  way  while  there  is  yet  time,  for 
if  you  go  too  far  from  the  right  path  you  will  not  hear  the  voice  and 
you  may  be  hopelessly  lost  and  be  wrecked,  even  as  the  pilot  and  his 
precious  cargo  were  when  they  lost  their  way. 

Because  of  his  love  for  us  our  Savior  has  done  everything  to  protect 
us  from  the  effects  of  evil,  even  to  the  giving  of  his  life,  but  he  will 
not  take  from  us  our  agency. 

As  members  of  this  Church  we  may  not  excuse  ourselves  as  the 
people  of  the  world  may  who  have  not  been  properly  taught  and  do 
not  understand.  Millions  of  God's  children  have  not  charts  and  compass 
as  we  have,  but  he  organized  his  Church  and  offers  membership  and 
invites  all  to  come  into  it  and  to  be  with  him  on  the  good  ship  Zion,  with 
the  promise  that  in  obedience  to  his  commandments  there  will  -flow 
peace,  happiness  and  eternal  life  in  his  celestial  kingdom. 

Shall  we  be  careless  ?  Shall  we  use  things  which  God  has  forbidden  ? 
Shall  we  dishonor  his  holy  day  ?  Shall  we  neglect  our  prayers  ?  Shall  we 
take  advantage  of  our  neighbors  ?  Shall  we  do  the  things  that  the  Lord 
has  told  us  not  to  do,  when  we  know  that  by  so  conducting  ourselves 
we  may  lose  his  spirit  and  we  ourselves  be  lost  ? 

THE  PILOT  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Not  only  has  the  Lord  given  us  the  advice  already  recorded  in  the 
scriptures  to  guide  us  but  he  has  placed  as  a  leader  in  this  Church,  one 
of  his  sons  who  has  been  chosen  and  ordained  and  set  apart  to  be 
the  President.  He  is  our  pilot  and  he  will  be  directed  by  a  voice  that 
will  enable  him  to  lead  us  where  we  should  go.  If  we  are  wise  we 
will  not  set  up  our  judgment  against  him  but  will  be  happy  to  honor 
him  in  his  place  as  long  as  the  Lord  sustains  him.    We  have  had 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


53 


misguided  souls  in  the  Church  who  have,  in  their  ignorance,  opposed 
the  advice  of  the  pilot,  not  sensing  the  fact  that  they  were  opposing 
the  Lord  and  they  have  fallen  into  darkness  and  sorrow,  and  unless 
they  repent  they  will  not  find  a  place  in  the  celestial  kingdom. 

Let  us  remember  that  the  President  of  this  Church  has  been  offi- 
cially designated  as  the  pilot  of  the  Church  here  in  mortality  to  represent 
the  Master  of  heaven  and  earth. 

THE  PATHWAY  TO  PEACE 

My  advice  to  you  is  to  get  the  Spirit  of  God  and  keep  it  and  the 
only  way  we  will  retain  it  is  by  living  near  him,  by  keeping  his  com- 
mandments and  in  these  days  of  uncertainty  when  men  are  running  to 
and  fro  seeking  for  some  new  plan  by  which  peace  may  be  brought  into 
the  world  know  this  that  the  only  way  to  peace  for  this  world  is  the 
pathway  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord.  There  is  no  other.  We 
have  the  instruments  to  operate  the  ship.  We  have  the  information 
including  a  map  with  every  danger  charted  and  if  we  will  go  forward 
day  by  day  rejoicing  in  the  companionship  of  one  another,  winning  by 
our  upright  lives  the  love  and  confidence  of  our  families  and  neighbors 
until  the  time  comes  when  we  have  completed  the  period  assigned  to  us 
here  we  will  arrive  at  our  heavenly  home  and  be  made  welcome  by  our 
Heavenly  Father.  To  possess  a  knowledge  of  the  truth  is  worth  all  the 
wealth  of  the  world,  to  know  that  we  are  on  the  safe  highway  when  we 
are  in  the  pathway  of  duty  as  defined  by  our  Heavenly  Father,  and  to 
know  that  we  can  continue  there  if  we  will,  regardless  of  the  influences 
and  inducements  that  may  be  offered  by  those  who  have  not  been  ap- 
pointed to  be  our  leaders,  is  a  blessing  that  is  priceless. 

AVOIDING  THE  PITFALLS 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren,  who  are  presidents  of  stakes  and 
bishops  of  wards,  you  who  preside  over  quorums,  you  who  are  called 
to  take  charge  in  the  auxiliary  organizations,  both  men  and  women.  Be 
humble  and  prayerful,  that  you  may  avoid  the  pitfalls  that  the  adversary 
prepares  for  your  feet.  Listen  to  the  still  small  voice  that  will  always 
direct  you  if  you  are  worthy  of  it  in  a  path  that  means  eternal  happiness. 
My  soul  is  filled  with  gratitude  this  day  to  know  that  as  we  continue  our 
membership  in  the  Church  we  do  have  a  pilot  who  knows  the  way,  and 
if  we  will  follow  his  direction  we  will  not  land  on  the  side  of  the  mountain 
to  be  crushed  nor  descend  to  the  depths  to  be  drowned ;  we  will  not  meet 
the  spiritual  disasters  that  the  world  is  meeting  but  we  will  go  about 
doing  good,  blessing  mankind,  and  rejoicing  in  the  companionship  of 
those  we  love. 

That  the  Lord  will  -continue  to  bless  the  man  who  stands  at  the 
head  of  this  Church  together  with  his  counselors  and  those  that  associate 
with  them,  that  they  may  be  inspired  to  see  eye  to  eye  in  righteousness,  and 
that  we  who  are  members  may  be  wise  enough  not  to  jump  overboard 
but  that  we  may  stay  with  the  good  ship  Zion  as  it  follows  its  course 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  help  keep  that  course  where  the  Lord  would  have  it  to  be  to  the 
end  that  we  may  all  find  our  place  in  the  celestial  kingdom  when  our 
labors  in  mortality  are  completed,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  have  thirteen  returned  presidents  of  missions  from  whom  we 
have  not  heard  in  one  of  our  Conference  sessions.  We  have  brethren 
presiding  over  missions  who  have  not  yet  spoken,  and  those  who  are 
presiding  in  the  mission  field  who  have  spoken  in  these  Conferences, 
numbering  fourteen ;  so  that  as  usual  we  have  not  time  sufficient  to  hear 
from  every  one  from  whom  we  would  like  to  hear.  We  shall  not  call 
on  mission  presidents  who  will  have  an  opportunity  later  to  speak  to 
us  in  Conf  erence,  and  will  call  on  those  only  who  have  been  released 
and  are  with  us.  We  shall  ask  them,  as  there  are  thirteen  of  them, 
not  to  exceed  ten  minutes  in  their  remarks.  There  is  a  clock  directly 
in  front  of  them — I  have  been  looking  at  that  clock  now  for  fifty-odd 
years,  and  I  have  always  been  able  to  see  it — and  I  should  like  the  brethren 
to  remember  that  every  time  they  exceed  their  time,  some  one  will  have 
less  than  his  share  of  time.  If  they  should  accidentally  stop  a  minute 
too  soon  there  will  be  no  complaint. 

ELDER  DON  B.  COLTON 

Former  President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

During  the  last  four  years  I  have  had  the  wonderful  experience  of 
laboring  as  a  missionary  in  and  president  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission. 
That  experience  has  been  the  most  satisfactory  of  my  life.  I  appreciate 
it  sincerely. 

Soon  after  reaching  the  mission  field  we  dedicated  the  Washington 
chapel.  It  has  been  one  of  the  main  centers  since  then  for  the  advance- 
ment and  for  the  preaching  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  We 
have  built  and  dedicated  other  chapels,  and  I  feel  that  the  mission 
in  a  material  way  has  made  substantial  progress.  We  are  building  a 
chapel  now  in  Philadelphia. 

One  of  the  outstanding  developments  of  that  period  has  been  the 
work  at  the  Hill  Cumorah  where  the  Church  has  erected  a  beautiful  and 
impressive  monument  and  has  also  erected  a  Bureau  of  Information. 
During  the  last  summer,  an  open  air  theatre  has  been  erected.  I  mention 
these  only  in  appreciation  of  the  fine  work  that  has  been  accomplished 
in  creating  and  providing  for  us  the  agencies  that  are  so  necessary  in 
aid  of  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel. 

The  finest  experience,  however,  that  has  come  to  me  has  been  the 
opportunity  of-  working  with  the  groups  of  fine  young  men  and  women 
who  have  come  into  the  mission  field  from  the  various  wards  and  branches 
and  stakes  of  Zion  and  other  missions.  They  have  been  an  inspiration  to 
me,  and  if  Mormonism  may  be  judged  by  its  fruits,  we  are  not  ashamed 


ELDER  DON  B.  COLTON 


55 


to  have  people  know  that  these  boys  and  girls  represent  the  homes  of 
the  Mormon  Church. 

I  should  like  to  say  a  word  to  my  brethren,  the  Bishops.  Thank 
the  Lord  for  a  Bishop  who  can  find  work  for  his  returned  missionaries, 
particularly  in  the  work  of  the  Church.  I  rejoice  also  in  this  great  move- 
ment to  provide  work  for  our  people.  I  can  endorse  fully  the  words 
uttered  by  the  President  yesterday  morning.  Most  of  our  boys  and 
girls  who  return  are  anxious  to  work.  I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  open 
the  way  and  help  them  that  they  may  find  employment.  In  the  main 
they  return  full  of  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel,  fine,  clean  young  people.  I 
hope  that  they  shall  not  become  discouraged  nor  soured  in  life.  They 
have  learned  the  greatest  lesson  of  life,  namely,  that  God  lives.  Their 
hearts  have  been  warmed  and  their  souls  attuned  to  the  Spirit  of  God. 
They  have  seen  life  in  a  different  way.  I  hope  that  they  shall  not  be 
disappointed,  but  shall  find  a  place  in  the  world  and  continue  to  make 
good. 

And  now,  just  one  word  with  reference  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  In  the  papers  the  other  day  it  was  announced  that  several  noted 
divines  had  made  the  statement  that  during  the  last  two  thousand  years 
Christianity  had  been  failing.  With  all  due  respect,  I  cannot  subscribe 
to  that  doctrine.  Christianity  has  not  failed.  The  failure,  if  any,  has 
been  due  to  the  fact  that  people  have  not  interpreted  Christianity  properly 
and  have  not  lived  it.  God  does  not  fail ;  his  works  do  not  fail ;  they 
succeed.  God  succeeds ;  man  only  fails  when  he  does  not  interpret  the 
word  of  God  correctly,  and  does  not  translate  it  into  his  own  life. 

The  evidence,  therefore,  clearly  shows  that  during  these  two  thousand 
years  whatever  failure  has  come  has  been  due  to  men  not  accepting  true 
Christianity.  So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  last  four  years  have 
taught  me  that  there  is  in  the  world  a  true  Christianity,  and  I  say  this 
humbly  and  without  the  spirit  of  boasting.  I  recognize  that  good  men 
and  good  women  everywhere  are  trying  to  live  Christianity,  as  they 
understand  it,  but  the  fact  that  it  has  not  succeeded  ought  to  be  notice 
to  them  that  somewhere  along  the  line  they  have  missed  the  charted 
course  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ. 

I  bear  solemn  testimony  that  there  is  a  Christianity  in  the  world  that 
takes  hold  of  the  lives  of  men  and  women  and  makes  them  over,  so  to 
speak;  that  turns  them  from  the  paths  of  unrighteousness  into  the  paths 
of  truth  and  rectitude,  and  that  God  is  directing  the  work  of  his  Church. 
The  Christianity  that  recognizes  that  everywhere  the  Gospel  is  in  the 
world  for  the  world's  good,  and  that  men  and  women  who  embrace  it  are 
"  made  better.  So  far  as  it  is  translated  into  their  lives  there  is  no  failure, 
and  when  we  find  that  it  is  failing,  let  us  look  to  ourselves  or  to  the 
doctrines  that  we  have  embraced.  God's  work  is  right.  His  truth  never 
fails.  It  is  always  right.  God  is  always  right.  May  we  seek  to  find 
his  light  and  may  we  walk  therein.  I  do  know  as  I  know  that  I  live 
that  God  lives.  It  is  the  most  precious  thing  in  my  life.  I  rejoice 
beyond  my  power  to  express  that  there  has  come  to  me  the  overwhelming 
conviction  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Savior  of  the  world,  the  only  name 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


given  under  heaven  whereby  we  must  be  saved.  I  rejoice  that  his  truth 
has  been  restored,  and  pray  that  God  will  help  us  to  live  it  always,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus,  our  Savior,  Amen. 

ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 

Former  President  of  the  California  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  happy  to  stand  before  you  this 
morning  and  bear  testimony  to  the  divinity  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  I  love  our  Church  because  of  the  opportunity  it  gives  each 
of  us  to  do  unselfish  service. 

I  spent  the  most  glorious  two  and  a  half  years  of  my  life  in  the 
California  Mission,  and  recently  returned  from  that  mission  loving 
it  and  loving  the  people  there.  To  associate  with  your  boys  and 
girls  in  the  mission  field,  to  see  them  grow  and  develop  in  their 
testimonies  and  in  their  ability  to  mix  with  other'  people  and  to 
convince  them  of  the  truth  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  was  a 
great  joy. 

California  is  a  great  country — the  land  of  sunshine  they  call  it. 
I  love  it,  not  because  of  its  sunshine,  but  because  of  the  people  who 
are  there.  Goodness  knows  that  had  I  been  seeking  sunshine  I 
would  not  have  needed  to  go  away  from  Salt  Lake  City  in  August 
and  September  of  this  year. 

Since  coming  here  I  have  been  assigned  to  a  new  task,  to  labor 
as  a  counselor  to  President  Stephen  L.  Chipman  in  the  Salt  Lake 
Temple,  and  I  have  been  surprised  at  the  things  I  have  discovered 
there.  Do  you  know  we  have  some  sixty  thousand  names  that  have 
been  sent  into  the  temple  from  the  mission  fields  of  the  world  that 
should  be  taken  care  of  and. the  work  done  for  them?  The  President 
of  the  French  Mission  wrote  to  me  and  told  me  that  he  had  sent  in 
some  lists  of  names — several  hundred — two  years  ago  and  had  not 
yet  received  the  papers  back,  and  he  desired  to  know  whether  the 
names  had  been  lost.  When  I  looked  into  the  files  I  discovered  that 
not  only  those  from  the  French  Mission  were  there,  but  there  were 
thousands  and  thousands  from  other  missions  that  were  there  wait- 
ing to  be  taken  care  of.  I  feel  it  would  be  a  glorious  thing  if  the 
people  would  consider  this  great  work,  this  charity  work,  that  is  to 
be  done  for  the  missions  of  the  world,  and  when  they  come  to  the 
House  of  the  Lord  take  the  names  from  some  of  these  missions  and 
help  us  to  clear  them  out  of  the  files.  I  hope  the  new  Security  Plan 
will  work  out  this  very  thing. 

I  was  astonished  to  learn  that  for  the  month  of  August  the 
temples  ran  about  29%  capacity;  that  is,  we  could  have  done  71% 
more  work  in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple  than  was  done  during  the 
month  of  August;  and  I  am  wondering  how  temple-conscious  we 
are,  and  whether  or  not  we  should  not  consider  this  great  mission 
that  all  of  us  have  been  called  to  that  are  in  the  Church.  You  will 
remember  that  the  Prophet  bore  down  heavily  upon  this  one  point — 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 


57 


that  we  cannot  be  made  perfect  without  our  dead — and  assigned  to 
us  a  special  activity,  a  missionary  work  if  you  please,  and  while 
I  will  candidly  admit  that  up  until  now  this  missionary  work  has 
not  been  so  interesting  to  me  as  the  missionary  work  for  the  living 
has  been,  I  recognize  the  fact  that  it  is  essential,  it  is  a  work  that 
all  of  us  should  be  thinking  about ;  and  I  hope  that  throughout  the 
winter  months  the  Salt  Lake  Temple  and  all  the  temples  will  be 
running  one  hundred  per  cent  capacity,  instead  of  29%. 

God  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Wherever  I  have  been  amongst 
our  people  I  have  found  that  they  were  living  the  Gospel,  and  their 
example  has  been  a  strength  and  a  help  to  me,  for  their  homes  have 
been  opened,  and  I  have  been  fed  and  clothed  and  blessed  through 
the  Saints. 

May  the  peace  of  our  Heavenly  Father  be  in  the  hearts  of  each 
and  every  one  of  us,  and  may  our  desire  be  to  uphold  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church  in  all  that  they  do,  is  my  prayer,  in  Jesus' 
name.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR. 

President  of  the  Logan  Temple 

My  dear  brethren  and -sisters:  This  is  a  surprise  to  me,  to  be 
asked  to  say  a  few  words  to  you.  I  sincerely  pray  that  God  my 
eternal  Father  will  bless  the  words  I  shall  say  so  that  they  will  be  of 
truth  and  benefit  not  only  to  myself,  but  to  you  to  whom  I  shall 
speak. 

It  has  been  my  privilege  to  serve  the  Church  as  a  missionary 
four  different  times  in  different  parts  of  the  world.  Each  time  I 
have  responded  to  the  call  has  brought  joy  and  satisfaction  and  given 
me  an  increased  testimony  concerning  the  divinity  of  this  great  and 
mighty  work. 

I  have  now  been  called  into  a  new  division  of  the  Gospel  of  our 
Lord  and  Master  Jesus  Christ — to  preside  over  the  Logan  Temple. 
It  is  a  very  important  calling,  one  of  trust  and  confidence  and  I 
appreciate  it  beyond  measure.  It  is  indeed  a  blessing.  It  is  our 
aim,  our  objective,  to  beautify  life  both  from  a  physical  and  a  spirit- 
ual point  of  view.  Inasmuch  as  my  present  calling  has  so  much  to 
do  with  the  development  of  spirituality,  I  discover  that  it  requires 
more  concentration,  more  thought,  more  prayer  and  more  humility 
to  understand  the  significance  of  the  saving  graces  of  the  Gospel  of 
our  Lord  and  Master  Jesus  Christ.  This  temple  work  reaches  back 
to  the  beginning  of  time  and  touches  the  life  of  every  human  soul 
and  gives  him  an  opportunity  to  embrace  the  Gospel. 

It  has  been  my  privilege  during  my  entire  life  to  associate  with 
young  men  and  women,  and  one  of  the  joys  connected  with  this 
association  has  been  to  witness  the  growth  and  development  that 
take  place  in  the  hearts  and  the  minds  of  these  fine  young  men  and 
women.    Many  of  them  are  occupying  positions  of  great  responsi- 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


bility  in  the  wards  and  stakes  of  Zion.  They  are  measuring  up  to 
their  responsibilities  in  a  way  that  not  only  brings  them  into  great 
prominence,  but  also  brings  credit  to  the  cause  that  they  represent. 
I  believe  in  the  youth  of  our  Church.  I  believe  that  the  great  ma- 
jority of  them  who  have  been  in  the  mission  fields  carry  a  testimony 
concerning  the  restored  Gospel. 

We  have  had  excursions  of  returned  missionaries  many  times 
visiting  the  Logan  Temple,  doing  work  not' only  for  themselves  but 
their  kindred  dead.  It  is  glorious  indeed  to  meet  them.  It  has  been 
my  privilege  to  marry  many  of  them  for  time  and  for  all  eternity,  and 
I  am  convinced  that  those  who  assume  this  obligation  in  the 
Temples  of  God  and  remain  true  and  firm  to  the  covenants  they 
have  made  with  their  Eternal  Father  are  fine  members  of  the  Church 
and  are  contributing  to  its  development  and  growth. 

Gratitude,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  just  a  little  more  than 
thankfulness,  and  I  often  feel  as  I  approach  my  Heavenly  Father 
in  prayer  that  I  not  only  thank  him  for  his  goodness  and  the  many 
manifestations  of  his  blessings  and  for  the  benefits  that  have  come 
to  me  from  time  to  time,  but  there  is  also  a  deep  feeling  of  gratitude 
that  comes  into  my  heart  concerning  my  relationship  to  him. 

I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  God.  I  know  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  the  instrumentality  through  which  God 
operated  in  bringing  to  pass  the  saving  graces  of  the  Gospel  in  this 
day  and  time  in  which  we  live.  I  humbly  pray  that  in  our  lives  we 
shall  be  able  to  place  such  interpretations  upon  these  precious  truths 
that  we  shall  always  find  ourselves  upholding  and  sustaining  those 
who  have  been  called  to  lead  this  great  work,  President  Grant  and 
his  counselors  and  the  quorum  of  the  Twelve,  and  all  those  who  are 
leading  the  different  wards  and  stakes  of  Zion.  I  leave  my  humble 
testimony,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ROY  A.  WELKER 

Former  President  of  the  German- Austrian  Mission 

Once  upon  a  time  I  was  asked  to  give  a  toast,  and  the  toastmaster 
said:  "In  front  of  you  is  a  green  light.  When  that  green  light  flashes 
on,  you  are  to  stop."  My  excuse  was  that  I  was  color  blind  and  did  not 
know  when  the  green  light  was  to  be  flashed.  I  have  no  excuse  this 
morning,  however,  so  I  will  try  to  stop  within  the  range  of  ten  minutes. 

A  little  over  three  years  ago,  I  with  my  family  left  Salt  Lake  City 
for  Germany,  where  I  went  to  preside  over  the  German-Austrian  Mission. 
I  knew  at  that  time  there  was  a  tremendous  task  to  be  performed ;  con- 
ditions were  uncertain,  many  of  the  Elders  were  feeling  that  perhaps 
they  would  be  banished,  or  that  war  would  soon  break  out  or  some  other 
conditions  would  prevail  by  which  they  would  be  called  home. 

But  conditions  began  to  settle  down  and  before  many  months  they 
had  tremendously  improved.  We  saw  then  an  opportunity  to  work 
harder  than  we  had  been  working  or  the  Elders  had  been  working.  We 


ELDER  ROY  A.  WELKER  59 


did  our  best  to  make  friends  with  the  officers  of  the  German  government, 
both  in  a  general  as  well  as  a  local  way.  We  discovered  that  they  were 
in  a  transition  period  themselves,  and  feeling  their  way  along.  Many 
of  their  regulations  were  private  laws  that  were  being  passed  nearly 
every  day  by  the  Diet,  and  there  was  a  group  of  police  regulations  that 
was  never  published.- 

These  were  the  conditions  that  gave  us  greatest  anxiety.  In  various 
cities  police  were  given  power  to  act  under  given  circumstances.  We 
soon  found  that  it  was  our  business  to  make  friends  with  these  local 
authorities  and  not  to  ask  them  whether  we  could  do  this  or  that,  but 
to  do  everything  that  seemed  reasonable  to  us,  and  if  we  were  forbidden 
to  do  that  again,  we  would  make  our  excuses  and  go  about  doing  some- 
thing else.   It  worked  out  very  well. 

We  also  played  strongly  upon  our  twelfth  Article  of  Faith,  declaring 
that  we  meant  it  when  we  said  that  we  believed  in  sustaining  and  up- 
holding the  government.  They  seemed  to  believe  us,  for  there  were 
something  like  thirty-four  small  religious  denominations  forbidden  in 
that  country,  and  yet  we  went  on  doing  work  that  others  who  like  us 
were  not  forbidden,  could  not  do. 

There  is  a  law  in  Germany  that  the  small  religious  denominations 
should  not  scatter  their  literature  from  door  to  door.  We  debated  for 
a  long  while  whether  we  should  stop  tracting,  but  we  had  been  tracting ; 
in  most  of  the  places  we  had  never  ceased  tracting,  and  we  felt  that 
inasmuch  as  we  had  been  doing  it  we  would  continue,  and  we  did  continue. 
And  in  only  a  few  places  were  we  prevented  from  tracting,  and  in  only 
a  few  places  are  the  Elders  forbidden  to  tract  now. 

As  President  Grant  said  yesterday,  in  Berlin  we  may  advertise  our 
meetings  freely. 

I  rejoice  to  be  able  to  testify  to  you  today  that  the  testimony  of 
President  Grant  in  the  city  of  Berlin  left  a  wonderful  influence  upon 
the  people  who  attended  that  meeting.  The  newspapers  that  had  refused 
us  the  opportunity  of  printing  matter  concerning  us  for  a  long  time 
before,  themselves  wrote  up  articles  of  that  meeting  and  of  the  Presi- 
dent's speech.  I  have  since  learned  from  somewhat  of  an  authoritative 
source  that  Mr.  Hitler  has  learned  of  us  and  has  said  that  the  Mormon 
people  are  doing  the  German  government  no  harm  and  he  wants  them 
let  alone. 

I  believe  perhaps  that  may  be  true,  for  I  can  testify  that  during 
the  past  six  months  particularly  we  have  had  a  friendliness  shown  us 
in  that  nation  that  has  been  splendid,  and  a  matter  of  considerable  com- 
fort to  us  as  well. 

Not  only  in  Germany  are  the  people  tremendously  receptive  to 
the  influences  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Master,  but  I  believe  with  all  my 
heart  that  the  blood  of  Israel  flows  in  the  veins  of  the  peoples  of  the 
northern  European  countries.  Our  missionaries  whose  business  it  has 
been  to  go  into  Poland  and  Lithuania  have  found  responses  there  that 
have  convinced  me  that  before  long  the  Lord  will  see  to  it  that  those 
fields  are  opened  up  for  the  promulgation  of  the  Gospel.  Likewise 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


in  the  great  country  of  Russia.  I  believe  that  Europe  is  a  rich  field  for 
the  harvest  of  the  work  of  the  missionaries  in  the  near  future. 

My  heart  did  rejoice  yesterday  when  the  President  said  that  he  will 
see  to  it  that  in  the  future  the  Authorities  of  the  Church  go  to  Europe 
more  often.  I  have  been  praying  for  that  sort  of  thing,  for  the  inspira- 
tion of  our  leaders  in  the  hearts  of  those  people  is  tremendous. 

There  is  a  professor  in  the  Halle  University  in  the  school  of  religion 
who  invites  the  Elders  to  come  to  his  study  once  a  year.  In  1934  the 
local  Elders  and  missionaries  were  asked  to  his  study  or  department 
in  the  school,  and  there  he  kept  them  until  four  o'clock  in  the  morning, 
finding  out  what  he  could  from  their  side  of  Mormonism.  About  six 
months  ago  two  young  men  from  this  city  were  called  into  his  study  in  the 
evening  and  kept  until  three  o'clock  in  the  morning.  He  had  them 
deliver  a  lecture  with  illustrating  films  before  a  class  of  his  advanced 
students.  This  man  said :  "There  has  been  but  one  great  religious  leader 
arise  in  the  world  since  the  time  of  Christ,  and  that  man  was  Joseph 
Smith." 

When  our  learned  men  can  come  to  appreciate  that  there  is  not  only 
a  simple  plan  in  the  Gospel  for  people  to  follow,  but  a  plan  that  will  last 
through  the  eternities,  these  thinking  men  will  adopt  this  plan  that  will 
give  them  eternal  comfort  as  it  gives  us  who  have  adopted  it  eternal 
comfort. 

My  testimony  is  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  the  prophets  who 
surround  us  this  day — fifteen  of  them- — are  spokesmen  for  almighty 
God,  and  are  engaged  in  the  service  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  and  we 
who  give  our  time  and  our  tithes  to  assist  them  in  carrying  this  message 
not  only  will  make  people  happy  in  the  world  today,  but  give  them 
eternal  satisfaction. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  realize  this  and  study  it,  and  not  be  content 
with  our  membership  alone,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O  Ye  Mountains 
High." 

ELDER  T.  EDGAR  LYON 

Formerly  President  of  the  Netherlands  Mission 

Words  fail  to  express  the  joy  I  experience,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
in  being  allowed  to  occupy  this  position  this  morning,  and  especially  in 
being  allowed  to  attend  the  sessions  of  this  Conference. 

This  is  the  first  time  in  seven  years  it  has  been  my  opportunity  to 
be  present  in  the  sessions  of  the  General  Conference,  and  I  am  thrilled 
beyond  any  power  I  possess  to  express  my  gratitude  to  the  Lord  for  this 
privilege. 

For  nearly  four  years  it  was  my  lot  to  preside  over  the  mission 
in  the  Netherlands.  During  those  years,  I  am  convinced  that  the  Church 
has  gained  a  stronger  foothold  in  that  country  than  at  any  other  time 
in  the  past. 


ELDER  T.  EDGAR  LYON 


61 


While  the  number  of  converts  in  recent  years  is  not  quite  so  great 
as  the  number  made  in  the  years  immediately  following  the  World  War, 
nevertheless,  for  the  past  three  years  we  have  had  increases  in  our 
converts  as  compared  with  the  years  before  that,  and  the  Saints  are 
manifesting  a  finer  spiritual  attitude  as  proved  by  the  fact  that  they  are 
paying  their  tithes  and  their  Fast  offerings,  and  attending  their  meetings 
better  than  they  have  done  heretofore. 

We  rejoice  in  the  fact  that  the  members  in  this  foreign  land  have 
been  realizing  the  responsibility  resting  upon  them,  and  throughout  the 
period  of  our  administration — as  was  the  case  during  that  of  our  prede- 
cessor— we  have  been  endeavoring  to  train  the  local  people  to  assume 
and  bear  all  responsibility  in  conducting  their  affairs  in  the  branches 
and  districts.  I  am  thoroughly  converted  to  this  policy  inaugurated  by 
President  Widtsoe  when  he  presided  over  the  European  missions.  While 
there  have  been  many  difficulties  connected  with  the  transition  from 
missionary  leadership  to  that  of  local  leadership,  nevertheless,  churches 
and  branches  in  the  mission  field  are  securing  a  certain  stability  which 
they  never  had  before,  and  there  is  a  sense  of  permanence  creeping  into 
the  organizations  that  was  never  the  case  with  the  constant  change  of 
missionary  leadership. 

It  was  our  opportunity  while  laboring  in  the  field  to  celebrate  the 
seventy-fifth  anniversary  of  the  founding  of  the  Netherlands  Mission, 
and  at  that  period  of  time  it  appeared  that  the  Lord  had  commenced  to 
pour  out  his  Spirit  in  richer  abundance  upon  the  people  of  that  land 
than  ever  before.  We  had  a  most  successful  year  during  our  Jubilee 
and  one  of  the  things  that  was  gratifying  to  us  was  the  fact  that  the 
newspapers  commenced  to  come  to  us  for  news  and  published  all  that 
we  would  give.  At  conference  sessions  and  commemorative  meetings 
they  had  reporters  in  attendance  who  wrote  accounts  better  than  we 
could  have  done — favorable  accounts — which  were  given  wide  circula- 
tion throughout  the  land.  I  rejoice  in  this  change  of  attitude  that  has 
come  in  the  press  of  the  Netherlands  with  regard  to  our  Church. 

Another  objective  that  I  think  will  perhaps  be  realized  within  the 
near  future  will  be  the  recognition  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  by  royal  decree  in  the  Netherlands,  as  an  official  church 
on  equal  footing  with  all  other  ecclesiastical  organizations  of  that  land. 

We  have  been  endeavoring  to  develop  the  auxiliary  associations 
in  that  land,  and,  under  local  leadership  and  local  boards,  that  compare 
very  favorably  with  our  own  stake  boards  here  at  home,  we  have  seen 
our  Mutuals,  our  Relief  Societies,  our  Sunday  Schools,  Primary  and 
Genealogical  Associations  grow  and  advance.  We  have  found  that  the 
Primary  and  the  Sunday  Schools  are  perhaps  two  of  the  best  means 
we  have  had  in  the  field  for  giving  our  Elders  contacts  with  strangers, 
and  later  bringing  people  to  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel.  We  get  the 
children  of  the  non-members  in  the  Primary,  and  then  the  Elders  visit 
their  parents  and  succeed  in  getting  the  children  in  the  Sunday  Schools. 
We  try  to  take  the  children  by  the  hand  and  the  parents  by  the  heart  and 
bring  them  to  the  Gospel. 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


To  give  you  an  illustration:  At  one  period  during  a  year  and  a 
half  the  only  converts  we  made  in  the  large  city  of  Rotterdam  were 
people  who  became  acquainted  with  the  Church  through  the  fact  that 
their  children  had  been  brought  into  the  Primary  first.  So  we  rejoice 
in  this  work.  Also  the  work  of  our  Genealogical  Association  has  been 
organized  and  placed  on  a  permanent  basis  under  local  leadership,  and 
I  think  that  the  papers  on  file  in  the  Temple  and  in  the  Genealogical 
office  will  indicate  that  perhaps  we  have  achieved  an  organization  that  is 
better  than  any  other  genealogical  organization  in  the  missions  in  Europe. 
The  people  are  industriously  engaged  in  doing  their  genealogical  research 
at  the  present  time.  They  have  a  system  of  exchange  not  only  with  our 
own  mission,  but  with  the  local  groups  working  here  in  Salt  Lake,  as 
well  as  groups  in  other  missions  where  there  are  many' Hollanders  who 
have  emigrated. 

We  rejoice  also  in  the  fine  contacts  .we  have  had  with  the  Elders 
laboring  in  the  missions.  They  are  fine  young  men.  We  are  pleased  to 
report  at  the  present  time  that  so  far  as  we  know  all  of  them  are  enjoying 
excellent  health.  We  have  had  some  serious  illness  among  our  Elders — 
two  cases  that  were  so  serious  that  we  despaired  of  their  lives — but 
through  the  goodness  of  the  Lord  in  ways  that  I  think  are  nothing  short 
of  modern  miracles,  these  men  have  been  restored  to  normal  health  and 
strength  and  have  been  allowed  to  complete  their  labors. 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  of  the  Gospel  that  I  have.  I  rejoice  that 
the  Lord  has  been  so  good  to  allow  me  to  have  this  opportunity,  and  I 
hope  and  pray  I  may  go  forth  to  raise  my  voice  to  preach  the  truths  of 
the  everlasting  Gospel  restored  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I 
know  that  he  is  a  prophet  of  the  Lord,  and  that  in  the  passing  of  the 
years  he  will  be  recognized  by  the  leaders  of  all  mankind,  both  within 
and  without  the  Church,  as  the  greatest  prophet  of  the  latter-days,  a 
real  leader,  who  will  take  his  place  with  the  passing  of  the  years  alongside 
of  the  prophets  of  old. 

That  we  might  go  forth  striving  to  serve  the  Lord  and  walk  in  his 
paths,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters :  This  has  been  a  very  profitable  and 
pleasant  Conference.  We  have  all  enjoyed  it  greatly.  It  has  been  a 
witness  to  me  that  the  Spirit  of  God  is  still  available  to  his  servants  here 
upon  earth ;  not  only  that,  but  as  I  have  looked  at  this  congregation  I 
have  felt  impressed  that  the  simple  truths  of  the  Gospel,  plain,  easily 
understood,  still  sound  good  to  latter-day  ears. 

REJOICES  IN  REMARKS  OF  PRESIDENT  GRANT 

I  was  stirred  by  the  remarks  of  our  President  yesterday.  My  soul 
responded  to  all  that  he  said.  As  one  who  was  born  in  Europe  I  need  not 
tell  you  that  my  heart  leaped  in  response  to  his  statement  that  the  Church 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


63 


would  give  continuing  and  increasing  attention  to  the  people  in  the  lands 
from  which  we  all  have  come,  either  directly  or  by  descent.  The  blood 
of  Ephraim,  the  blood  of  Israel,  runs  strong  in  European  countries,  and 
I  believe  that  the  time  has  come,  as  predicted  by  the  prophets  of  old,  in 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  that  in  the  latter  days  groups  of  the  faithful  shall 
be  found  throughout  the  earth,  serving  as  centers  of  inspiration  to  those 
with  whom  they  come  in  contact. 

So  I  rejoice  in  all  that  our  President  said,  and  I  would  be  greatly 
tempted  to  comment  on  his  remarks  were  it  not  for  the  fact  that  for  some 
time  I  have  had  in  mind  a  subject  that  I  would  like  to  present  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  In  fact  I  have  gone  so  far  as  to  make  some  notes 
dealing  with  this  subject,  which  I  shall  follow  if  I  can. 

THE  LORD  GIVES  SPIRITUAL  LAWS  ONLY 

The  subject,  I  think,  will  appeal  at  first  sight  as  not  one  of  deep 
spiritual  import,  yet  I  feel  free  to  use  it,  for  in  the  philosophy  of  Mor- 
monism  all  things  pertaining  to  man's  life  have  a  spiritual  meaning.  This 
was  plainly  stated  by  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith : 

Verily  I  say  unto  you  that  all  things  unto  me  are  spiritual,  and  not  at 
any  time  have  I  given  a  law  which  was  temporal,  ....  for  my  command- 
ments are  spiritual,  they  are  not  natural  nor  temporal. 

* 

From  the  beginning  of  its  history,  the  restored  Church  of  Christ 
has  been  concerned  actively  with  the  temporal  welfare  of  its  members. 
It  has  fostered  city-building,  business  and  farming  as  well  as  education 
and  the  erection  of  meeting  houses,  tabernacles  and  temples.  Our  pres- 
ent attempt  in  behalf  of  economic  security  is  but  an  evidence  of  this  ideal 
of  the  Church. 

In  this  day  of  world-wide  unrest,  it  has  become  evident  that  a  major 
cause  of  depressions  and  contentions  has  been  and  is  the  declining  em- 
phasis placed  upon  the  productive  activities  of  mankind — the  activities 
which  lie  as  foundations  of  a  contented,  progressive  civilization. 

HAPPINESS  IN  HUMBLE  PURSUITS 

Agriculture  and  the  crafts  are  being  spoken  of  as  the  "humbler" 
tasks  of  life,  and  by  this  false  valuation  enterprising  youth  looks  to  so- 
called  "higher"  pursuits,  too  often  to  his  own  lesser  happiness  and  always 
to  the  diminished  welfare  of  humanity. 

There  was  a  time,  not  many  generations  ago,  when  craftsmanship, 
the  power  to  shape  articles  useful  to  man  from  wood  and  fibre,  stone 
and  metal,  from  the  raw  materials  of  earth,  was  held  to  possess  a  noble 
dignity,  second  to  none.  Today,  through  a  distorted  vision  of  life,  youth 
hesitates  to  train  mind  and  muscle,  nerve  and  sinew,  for  the  necessary 
trades  of  the  world.  There  is  a  scarcity  of  really  skilled  workers  in  the 
trades.  Yet,  the  competent  artisan  has  an  income  not  much  inferior, 
if  any,  to  that  of  the  average  so-called  "professional"  man.  Those  among 
our  people  who  have  the  natural  mechanical  endowment  should  not  hesi- 
tate to  enter  the  trades  as  a  means  of  livelihood. 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


AGRICULTURE  A  BASIC  INDUSTRY 

The  tilling  of  the  soil  has  ever  been  recognized  as  the  basis  of  na- 
tional welfare.  It  is  the  basic  industry  of  humanity.  Without  it  mankind 
could  not  survive.  The  physical  toil  which  formerly  accompanied  farming 
could,  if  farming  were  managed  properly,  disappear  with  the  invention 
and  introduction  of  farm  machinery.  Work  is  not  undesirable;  it  ac- 
companies all  success.  The  drudgery  charged  against  farm  life  may  in 
our  day  be  eliminated  by  proper  planning  and  systematic  approach  to 
farm  tasks.  Advancing  science  has  accumulated  a  body  of  knowledge 
concerning  the  production  of  plants  and  animals,  which  has  raised  agri- 
culture, from  the  point  of  view  of  organized  knowledge,  to  one  of  the 
best  established  of  professions.  Our  institutions  of  learning,  notably  the 
agricultural  colleges,  give  unsurpassed  training  for  life  on  the  farm.  A 
person  should  train  for  agriculture  as  for  any  other  profession. 

It  was  J.  W.  Sanborn,  first  president  of  the  Utah  State  Agricultural 
College,  who  went  back  to  his  native  New  Hampshire,  and  converted,  by 
modern  methods,  worn  out,  deserted  farms  into  prosperous,  money  mak- 
ing enterprises.  And  he  assured  me  that  he  won  unsurpassed  joy  in 
the  labor. 

My  spirit  thrilled  to  the  young  missionary  who  said  to  me,  "My 
brother  and  I  are  poultry  producers.  The  flocks  of  poultry  are  keeping 
me  on  this  mission.  When  I  am  released,  I  shall  go  back  to  that  business. 
It  is  good  enough  for  me."  It  is  a  source  of  satisfaction  to  me  to  know 
that  perhaps  two-thirds  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  farmers,  tillers  of 
the  soil,  keepers  of  flocks,  producers  of  the  world's  first  necessity,  food. 
We  may  get  along  without  many  things  but  food  we  must  have. 

FOOD  THE  FIRST  NECESSITY 

Hunger  is  a  prime  factor  in  the  social  and  economic  ills  of  mankind. 
One  needs  only  spend  an  hour  in  the  congested,  poverty-ridden  sections 
of  the  world's  great  cities  to  understand  that  the  cause  of  human  convul- 
sions, often  resulting  in  bloodshed,  is  the  lack  of  bread.  Disease  of  body 
and  mind  as  of  spirit  travels  in  the  wake  of  hunger.  A  nation  in  which 
all  citizens  are  well-fed  is  a  nation  of  prosperous  peace,  of  courage  to 
undertake  the  conquest  of  natural  forces  for  the  good  of  man.  Fear 
departs  from  the  man  whose  food  for  himself  and  his  family  is  assured. 
He  faces  the  world  and  its  problems  fearlessly,  courageously,  trustingly. 
He  may  use  his  powers  to  the  full. 

The  farmer,  though  he  use  but  a  modicum  of  farm  wisdom,  may  be 
freed  from  hunger.  Let  that  be  remembered  by  all  whose  tastes  lead 
toward  the  land,  but  who,  because  of  the  erroneous  ideals  of  the  age,  are 
tempted  to  look  elsewhere  for  a  life  pursuit.  Indeed,  it  would  be  well 
if  those  following  other  pursuits  would  maintain  a  kitchen  garden.  The 
professional  or  business  man  would  find  release  from  many  troubles,  if 
he  devoted  a  few  hours  a  week  to  the  cultivation  of  a  garden.  And  the 
income  in  food  produced  is  not  to  be  ignored.    During  the  summer  of 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


65 


1918  the  war  gardens  of  Salt  Lake  City,  covering  only  a  part  of  the 
vacant  lots  and  backyards  of  the  city,  produced  crops  valued  at  more 
than  one-half  million  dollars.  May  we  never  forget  the  ideal  of  our 
pioneer  fathers :  the  home  with  its  home  garden.  May  the  majority  of 
Latter-day  Saints  continue  to  be  tillers  of  the  soil  and  keepers  of  flocks 
and  herds. 

The  woman  often  determines  the  career  of  a  man.  Again  it  must 
be  said  that  farm  life  may  be  made  to  yield  happiness  for  the  man  and 
the  woman,  and  confer  a  real  boon  upon  the  children  who  may  be  born 
to  them.  But  the  woman,  as  the  man,  should  receive  some  preparation 
for  life  on  the  farm.  In  the  modern  Palestine,  schools  are  maintained 
for  the  training  of  farmers'  wives,  and  with  most  excellent  results. 

AGRICULTURE  AND  SCIENCE 

The  farmer  and  the  farmer's  wife  may  receive  today  the  same  train- 
ing of  mind  and  emotions  given  to  those  of  other  pursuits.  The  spirit 
of  culture,  of  trained  intellects  and  awakened  emotions,  may  be  enjoyed 
perhaps  most  fully  under  the  natural  conditions  surrounding  farm  life. 

In  our  imperfect  social-economic  structure,  it  is  true  that  the  farmer  . 
has  not  always  had  a  fair  deal.  But,  a  new  day  for  the  farmer  is  dawning. 
Thinking  men  recognize  as  never  before  the  importance  of  maintaining 
a  sound,  prosperous  pastoral  foundation  of  the  world's  commonwealths. 
And  science,  the  wonder-worker,  is  finding  outlets  for  the  farmer's 
products  not  dreamed  of  before.  Eminent  farmers,  industrialists  and 
scientists,  the  foremost  in  the  nation,  have  combined  to  help  find  new 
markets  for  the  farmers'  products.  Formerly,  the  farmer  was  only  a 
food  producer.  Today  with  the  aid  of  modern  science,  the  products  of 
the  farm  may  be  used  to  build  houses,  to  furnish  them,  to  paint  them, 
to  drive  automobiles,  to  make  artificial  silk  and  plastics  to  compete  with 
stone  and  metal,  and  hundreds  of  other  things  useful  to  man.  A  new 
applied  science  known  as  Farm  Chemurgy  is  being  established — which 
means  the  use  of  chemistry  in  the  service  of  agriculture,  by  which  the 
farm,  the  factory  and  the  scientific  laboratory  join  in  benefiting  them- 
selves and  the  world. 

LIFE  ON  THE  FARM  CAN  BE  MADE  RICH 

Even  under  present  conditions  who  shall  say  that  the  farmer  and  the 
farmer's  family  cannot  live  life  richly.  Thereby  hangs  the  whole  matter. 
Our  life  pursuit  must  be  only  in  part  a  business  ;  it  must  be  more  a  mode 
of  living,  else  we  cannot  win  happiness.  Life  is  bigger  than  the  parts 
of  which  it  is  made.  From  that  point  of  view,  agriculture  leads  the  many 
pursuits  of  man.  It  is  a  mode  of  life  under  the  open  sky,  in  contest  and 
collaboration  with  the  genial  forces  of  nature,  near  in  feeling  to  God, 
who  made  the  earth.  It  produces  ;  it  does  not  destroy.  It  gives  ;  it  does 
not  take.  It  adds  true  wealth  to  the  world's  storehouse ;  it  enlarges  the 
soul  of  the  farmer. 

Read  the  history  of  our  day.  Crime  is  not  bred  in  the  fields  of  grow- 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ing  grain.  Strong  men  are  called  from  the  farm,  from  the  earth  as  the 
Lord  gave  it,  from  honest  creative  toil,  to  correct  the  world's  mistakes. 

My  plea  this  day  is  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  give  increased  atten- 
tion to  the  production  of  food  and  the  winning  of  physical  and  spiritual 
health  from  the  cultivation  of  the  soil. 

May  God  help  us  always  to  have  our  feet  firmly  upon  the  soil,  to  be 
owners  and  tillers  of  the  land,  and  to  follow  the  great  example  which 
we  have  had  set  for  us  in  the  past,  showing  us  that  strength,  vitality  and 
power  and  a  rich  form  of  living  come  to  those  who  deal  with  the  earth 
as  the  Lord  gave  it  to  man. 

May  God  bless  us  in  all  respects.  I  have  enjoyed  immensely  this 
conference,  and  I  feel  that  the  Lord  is  with  us  and  blessing  us.  If  time 
permitted  I  would  like  to  add  my  testimony,  by  actual  recount  of  experi- 
ences, the  manner  in  which  the  world  now  looks  to  us  as  never  before 
for  leadership ;  and  how  we  are  explaining,  making  clear  to  the  nations, 
the  mysteries  which  must  be  solved  if  mankind  is  to  move  forward  into 
a  day  of  happiness  and  perfect  joy.  I  pray  that  we  may  all  be  blessed 
according  to  our  needs,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  feel  profoundly  impressed  to  endorse  the  remarks  by  Brother 
Widtsoe.  I  have  often  remarked  that  but  for  the  splendid  characters 
that  come  from  the  farms  to  the  cities,  the  cities  would  die  of  their  own 
immoral  weight.  The  larger  the  city,  as  a  rule,  the  greater  the  amount 
of  crime.  The  more  a  man  loves  the  farm  and  lives  on  it,  the  healthier 
in  spirit  and  body  he  is.  I  longed  as  a  young  man  to  live  on  a  farm,  but 
I  have  never  cultivated'  an  acre  of  land,  so  of  course  I  cannot  talk 
from  experience ;  but  I  can  say  that  the  majority  of  our  missionaries  come 
from  the  farms,  notwithstanding  the  farmers  do  not  produce  a  majority 
of  the  money.   This  shows  where  the  real,  genuine  faith  is. 

I  am  going  to  bring  something  from  a  great  statesman  to  read  to 
you  this  afternoon. 

ELDER  JAMES  M.  KIRKHAM 

Former  President  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission 

I  am  very  grateful  to  the  brethren  who  gave  me  the  privilege 
of  going  into  the  mission  field  and  presiding  for  a  little  more  than 
three  years  over  the  East  Central  States  Mission.  I  had  never  had 
such  an  experience  before  in  all  my  life.  It  is  invaluable,  and  I  am 
very  grateful  for  that  privilege  and  opportunity. 

The  mission  is  progressing.  There  is  a  change  of  attitude  in 
that  country.  I  recall  an  instance  that  happened  when  I  first  went 
there.  Elders  were  invited  to  leave  a  home,  with  a  very  definite 
statement  not  to  return.  Before  I  left  the  mission  they  were  invited 
back  to  that  same  place.  This  one  incident  is  but  representative  of 
a  general  improvement  in  the  attitude  toward  our  people. 


ELDER  JAMES  M.  KIRKHAM 


67 


The  newspapers  there  are  very  much  more  friendly,  as  they  are 
everywhere,  and  the  people  in  those  states  are  looking  to  us.  I  want 
to  emphasize  with  all  the  power  that  I  have  that  we  must  not  fail 
in  the  great  project  of  the  Security  Program  in  this  Church,  any 
more  than  we  should  fail  in  any  other  of  the  things  we  are  called 
upon  to  do. 

I  know  that  that  mission  will  continue  to  progress,  because  I 
have  learned  from  friends  since  my  return  home  of  the  splendid 
leadership  being  exhibited  by  President  William  Tew  who  suc- 
ceeded me  in  that  mission. 

Since  coming  home  I  have  been  laboring  in  an  activity  in  which 
I  was  very  much  interested  before  I  went  on  my  mission — that  of 
genealogical  work.  Recently  I  have  visited  a  number  of  stakes  in 
connection  with  convention  work.  I  would  like  to  emphasize  to 
you  here  today  that  while  I  am  interested  in  the  living,  having  a 
large  family  of  grown  children  and  being  selfishly  interested  in  them, 
I  am  also  interested  in  the  dead.  I  would  like  to  emphasize  to  you 
the  privilege  that  is  yours  to  go  into  the  Temples  of  the  Lord  and 
there  become  saviors  upon  Mount  Zion. 

In  my  youth  I  was  given  a  blessing  and  told  that  I  should  be- 
come a  savior  upon  Mount  Zion,  and  I  wondered  how  that  promise 
could  ever  be  fulfilled.  Today  I  know  how  it  is  being  realized  and 
fulfilled.  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  we  should  seek  our  own  dead, 
that  we  with  them  might  be  made  perfect.  We  must  not  seek  only 
those  having  the  same  surname  as  our  own  but  we  must  seek  our 
own  kindred  dead.  I  realize  when  I  make  this  statement  that  many 
of  you  are  having  difficulty  in  doing  this,  but  the  words  of  Nephi 
remind  me  that  the  Lord  will  require  at  our  hands  no  service  save 
he  will  provide  a  way  to  perform  it. 

Oh,  he  will  test  us,  he  will  try  us,  but  the  Lord  will  open  the 
way.  He  tells  us  that  if  it  is  necessary,  the  time  shall  come  when 
we  will  go  to  the  Temples  of  the  Lord  and  there  will  have  the  names 
given  to  us.  I  hope  that  the  prayer  that  was  offered  by  Brother 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith  last  night  can  be  realized,  when  he  prayed 
to  the  Lord  asking  him  to  touch  the  hearts  of  the  presidents  of 
stakes  and  bishops  of  wards,  that  they  would  assume  their  leader- 
ship and  discharge  their  responsibility  in  this  great  work. 

The  time  is  short  and  we  have  much  to  do.  We  must  seek  our 
dead.  My  experience  from  careful  study  and  observation,  has  taught 
me  that  the  Lord  is  touching  the  hearts  of  the  people  of  the  world, 
and  they  are  doing  a  most  wonderful  work  in  preparing  genealogi- 
cal records. 

To  illustrate  in  one  particular,  it  may  be  interesting  to  you  to 
know  that  in  the  one  hundred  and  ten  counties  in  Tennessee  last 
winter  from  three  to  five  W.  P.  A.  workers  in  each  county  were 
copying  vital  statistics,  deeds,  and  marriage  records,  and  they  are 
now  available  to  the  public  in  the  city  of  Nashville.  Is  the  Lord  at 
work?  The  Lord  is  way  ahead  of  us,  brethren  and  sisters,  in  paving 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  way  for  us,  and  it  seems  to  me  our  duty  is  to  take  advantage  of 
the  manner  in  which  the  Lord  is  opening  up  new  and  easy  fields 
for  research.  The  people  of  the  world  are  actually  gathering  rec- 
ords for  us. 

May  the  Lord  bless  and  help  us  to  realize  our  responsibility, 
our  opportunity,  our  leadership,  and  then  the  world  will  be  led  to 
glorify  our  Heavenly  Father  because  of  what  we  are  doing  and  the 
way  we  are  doing  it. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  and  bless  us  to  this  end,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

The  religious  census  of  1926  reveals  the  fact  that  there  are  in  the 
United  States  two  hundred  and  thirteen  denominations  of  Christians, 
"presenting  a  more  complicated  religious  pattern  than  exists  among  any 
other  people."  The  total  membership  of  these  denominations  is  nearly 
55,000,000  souls.  What  a  power  all  these  denominations  and  their  fol- 
lowing might  have  to  bring  peace  to  this  troubled  world ! 

I  wish  to  speak  on  a  subject  in  which  we  are  all  vitally  interested, 
the  Re-idealizing  of  the  World.  I  was  impressed  with  the  words  of 
Elder  Widtsoe,  for  they  become  so  fundamental  in  their  teaching.  An 
old  oriental  said  once:  "He  who  sows  corn  sows  righteousness."  And 
the  farmer  does  sow  righteousness. 

In  one  of  our  books  of  holy  scriptures,  namely  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price,  is  a  majestic  message  contained  in  the  words  of  the  Lord  to  Moses : 

For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to  pass  the 
immortality  and  the  eternal  life  of  man. 

A  spiritual  message  from  on  high,  it  involves  the  recognition  of 
Jesus  as  the  living  Lord,  and  religion  as  an  actual  experience,  and  a 
living  union  with  God.  It  sums  up  the  purposes  of  God  in  his  relation- 
ship to  his  children,  and  is  a  vision  and  a  light  directing  to  a  spiritual 
ideal.  The  world  is  in  need  of  turning  again  to  the  Savior  of  the  world, 
for  he  taught  that  in  order  to  find  life,  we  must  turn  in  service  to  the 
kingdom. 

It  is  hard  for  the  modern  world  to  grasp  this  divine  truth  today, 
for  our  civilization  is  in  the  throes  of  all  kinds  of  commotion.  It  creaks 
and  groans  in  labor  disputes ;  the  home  and  the  sacredness  of  family 
life  are  being  destroyed ;  and  again  are  the  nations  crashing  in  world 
war.  The  Church  of  the  living  God  does  not  stand  for  these  things. 
It  is  man  that  causes  them.  We  are  pleading  for  the  preservation 
of  our  civilization.  If  the  world  could  only  be  taught  to  turn  to  the 
Savior,  civilization  would  take  care  of  itself.  If  civilization  is  over- 
thrown, it  will  be  because  we  have  thought  too  much  of  the  rights  of 
property  and  wealth.  It  will  be  because  civilization  has  turned  from 
God  and  has  built  its  life  on  another  than  the  Lord's  commanded  basis. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


69 


If  Christianity  is  to  have  a  message  today  for  this  war-torn  world, 
it  must  first  learn  that  the  Lord  is  ever  revealing  his  message  of  love 
with  ever  increasing  clearness,  just  as  he  did  two  thousand  years  ago. 
For  his  message  is  eternal,  and  when  the  prophet  of  old  first  declared 
that  you  and  I  must  do  justly,  love  mercy,  and  walk  humbly  with  our 
God,  he  spoke  the  foundation  that  becomes  the  fundamental  divine  duty 
of  man.  And  Jesus  declared  that  we  should  love  the  Lord  with  all  our 
hearts,  minds  and  strength,  and  this  involves  loving  our  neighbors  as 
ourselves.  Are  we  losing  our  spiritual  values?  The  values  that  have 
been  made  manifest  to  mankind  by  the  revelations  from  on  high.  No 
greater  religious  teachings  have  ever  risen  to  equal  those  of  Jesus  in 
power  and  in  grace.  In  days  of  yore,  in  the  ages  before  the  coming 
of  the  Son  of  man,  the  name  of  God  was  always  referred  to  as  the  power 
that  transcends  the  grasp  of  our  finite  minds.  Men  strove  for  a  vision 
that  they  might  understand  reality.  It  was  to  obtain  an  illumination,  an 
insight  to  the  divine  purposes. 

What  we  need  today  is  more  religion,  but  let  it  be  real  religion, 
with  God  as  the  supreme  ideal,  who  is  approached  in  deep  humility. 
Let  us  not  seek  him  for  the  purpose  of  preserving  civilization,  but  because 
we  have  lost  our  way.  He  is  our  lost  treasure.  We  have  too  long  put 
our  faith  and  confidence  in  the  institutions  of  men,  and  have  lost  the 
divine  faith  which  was  given  us  in  the  beginning  of  history,  and  which 
we  have  given  up  for  the  ways  of  human  kind. 

Our  homes  must  become  again  centers  of  the  way  of  divine  life. 
Children  should  pray ;  parents  should  pray.  Children  should  be  brought 
not  so  much  by  word  as  by  divine  thought  to  the  altar  of  God  every 
day,  and  there  find  more  illuminating  purposes.  Our  churches  should 
be  what  all  sacred  houses  should  be — houses  of  prayer — where  men  and 
women  should  gather  and  in  deep  humility  and  with  hungry  hearts 
lift  themselves  up  to  him  whom,  to  truly  know,  is  the  only  life  that 
matters.  David  of  old  said  that  the  holy  temple  is  not  for  man,  but  for 
the  Lord  God.  That  God  is  all  for  whom  we  are  seeking ;  to  know  him 
and  to  find  him  forever  is  not  superstition.    It  is  religion. 

I  wish  that  we  might  teach  the  youth  of  the  world  to  hold  fast 
to  the  teachings  of  the  fathers;  and  to  provoke  the  consciousness  of 
things  spiritual.  I  wish  we  might  read  the  scriptures  more  and  more  in 
all  our  walks  of  life,  that  the  youth  might  be  brought  into  contact  with 
truths  significant  and  profound;  that  they  might  be  affected  with  the 
thought  of  revelation.  There  -is  a  subtle  beauty  to  all  truth,  and  it 
requires  no  learning  to  feel  its  force.  But  it  admits  of  much  learning 
for  its  aesthetic  quality  is  so  high.  Why  are  certain  great  truths  so 
appealing  to  every  soul  today,  if  they  are  read  and  visionized  ?  Take  for 
example  the  divine  words  : 

In  the  beginning,  God  created  the  heaven  and  the  earth. 

And  the  earth  was  without  form,  and  void ;  and  darkness  was  upon 
the  face  of  the  deep.  And  the  Spirit  of  God  moved  upon  the  face  of  the 
waters. 

And  God  said,  Let  there  be  light :  and  there  was  light. 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Why  were  these  truths  so  appealing  in  our  childhood  days?  It 
was  because  they  were  exalted;  because  they  appealed  to  the  spirit  of 
man.  We  did  not  find  so  much  of  a  story  in  these  words,  as  a  doctrine. 
It  is  a  great  truth,  a  truth  everlasting.  A  man  wrote  the  wordst  but  it 
is  man's  speaking  glorified. 

I  am  not  depreciating  any  line  of  human  endeavor  that  has  brought 
mankind  to  its  present  condition  in  our  onward  march  of  knowledge. 
What  would  the  world  be  today  without  its  learning  ?  Without  its  men  of 
genius  and  vision?  No  one  ever  gave  a  more  exalted  view  of  justice  in 
human  society  than  did  Plato  of  old ;  and  the  truths  of  William  James  of 
Harvard  discovered  by  years  of  study  and  calm  reflection  will  always 
be  illuminating  mile  posts,  for  the  uplift  of  humanity.  But  the  point 
is  this :  If  the  Lord  in  his  holy  purposes  is  to  bring  about  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man — and  this  is  his  sole  purpose — then  it  will  be 
clone  as  mankind  turns  to  him  in  that  sublime  and  holy  faith  which  was 
the  basic  teaching  of  the  Master. 

We  are  marching  on  to  glorious  things  in  a  material  way ;  inventions 
have  changed  the  social  and  economic  life  of  man,  but  have  they  made 
us  see  more  and  more  the  vision  of  the  divine  purposes  of  God  ?  Speaking 
of  the  contributions  to  progress  of  the  engineer,  Sir  Alfred  Ewing, 
President  of  the  British  Association  for  the  Advancement  of  Science, 
recently  said : 

Beyond  question,  these  gifts  are  benefits  to  mankind,  making  life 
fuller,  wider,  healthier,  richer  in  comforts  and  interests  and  in  such  happi- 
ness as  material  things  can  promote.  But  we  are  acutely  aware  that  the 
engineer's  gifts  have  been  and  may  grievously  be  abused.  In  some  there 
is  potential  tragedy  and  present  burdens.  Man  was  ethically  unprepared 
for  so  great  a  bounty.  In  the  growth  of  morals,  he  is  still  unfit  for  the 
tremendous  responsibility  it  entails.  The  commands  of  nature  have  been 
put  into  his  hands,  before  he  knows  how  to  command  himself. 

Humanity  must  turn  if  the  world  will  go  on.  The  vision  of  God 
must  be  made  clearer ;  the  vision  of  the  kingdom  must  be  the  impelling 
thing  in  life,  and  a  recreated  society  must  come  by  a  re-idealizing  of  the 
world.  Civilization  must  be  better  unified  by  a  divine  faith  in  the 
"divine  purposes." 

Yes,  we  have  seen  this  old  world  beginning  to  crumble;  signs  of 
social  chaos,  class  struggle  and  revolt;  the  rumblings  of  coming  war. 
But  the  Christian  world  is  able,  if  it  will,  to  bring  about  a  new  world; 
a  new  stirring  of  conscience  and  idealism  in  men  of  good-will,  some  of 
whom  are  intellectuals,  some  of  them  workers — all  dreaming  of  something 
finer,  juster,  and  nobler,  dreaming  of  a  time  again,  when  men  will  leave 
their  lower  selves  and  march  hand  in  hand  toward  the  deeper  and  richer 
life,  when  the  war-drum  sounds  no  longer  and  the  battle  flag  is  furled 
in  the  parliament  of  man,  the  federation  of  the  world.  The  forces 
which  are  to  make  the  world,  the  world  it  ought  to  be,  are  now  within  it, 
and  every  sign  of  the  presence  of  God  in  the  world  is  of  help  to  us. 
The  Gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  has  been  restored  and  the  past 
and  the  future  meet  within  it  as  it  bears  witness  to  the  truth  that  God 
is  carrying  forward  his  ministry  which  entered  the  world  when  Christ 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


71 


was  born  in  Bethlehem.  So  I  bear  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren, 
holding  the  Priesthood  of  God:  "They  that  be  wise  shall  shine  as  the 
brightness  of  the  firmament ;  and  they  that  turn  many  to  righteousness 
as  the  stars  for  ever  and  ever." 

In  conclusion  let  us  think  of  the  words  of  the  prophet  Moses  and 
then  of  the  admonition  of  Jesus  our  Lord : 

Be  strong  and  of  a  good  courage,  fear  not,  nor  be  afraid  of  them : 
for  the  Lord  thy  God,  he  it  is  that  doth  go  with  thee ;  he  will  not  fail  thee, 
nor  forsake  thee. 

*   *  * 

These  things  have  I  spoken  unto  you,  being  yet  present  with  you. 

But  the  Comforter,  which  is  the  Holy  Ghost,  whom  the  Father  will 
send  in  my  name,  he  shall  teach  you  all  things,  and  bring  all  things  to 
your  remembrance,  whatsoever  I  have  said  unto  you. 

Peace  I  leave  with  you,  my  peace  I  give  unto  you :  not  as  the  world 
giveth,  give  I  unto  you.  Let  not  your  heart  be  troubled,  neither  let  it  be 
afraid. 

May  the  Kingdom  of  God  triumph  in  all  the  world,  I  pray  in  his 
name.  Amen. 

An  anthem,  "O  Holy  Father,"  was  sung  by  the  Choir. 
Elder  Leland  E.  Anderson,  President  of  the  South  Sanpete  Stake, 
offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 

SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Saturday,  October  2,  1937. 

The  fourth  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  at  2  o'clock  p.  m., 
Saturday,  October  2. 

The  Nebo  Stake  Choir,  under  the  direction  of  Elder  Carl  Nelson, 
furnished  musical  numbers  for  this  meeting.  The  opening  selection  was 
"Recessional." 

Elder  Herman  Bunderson,  President  of  the  Box  Elder  Stake, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

Vocal  duet,  "The  Morning  Breaks,"  by  Golden  Taylor  and  Freeman 
Bird. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

A  few  months  ago  I  was  discussing  a  Priesthood  project  with  Bishop 
William  R.  McConkie.  I  asked  him  for  suggestions  as  to  how  it  might 
be  put  over.  His  answer,  I  thought,  was  very  wise :  "Brother  Merrill, 
that  project  will  easily  go  over  if  there  is  sufficient  faith  developed  in 
the  members  of  the  Priesthood." 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


NEED  OF  GREATER  FAITH 

I  have  thought  of  that  many  times  since,  and  have  concluded  that 
if  there  is  one  thing  more  than  another  that  perhaps  we  need  in  the 
Church  today,  it  is  greater  faith.  I  was  very  heartily  in  sympathy  with 
what  Elder  Stephen  L  Richards  had  to  say  yesterday  about  that  subject. 
We  are  all  greatly  concerned  with  the  faith  of  our  youth.  We  are  all 
greatly  concerned  with  guiding  and  protecting  them  from  those  influ- 
ences that  will  destroy  their  faith. 

We  are  concerned,  not  only  with  the  faith  of  the  youth,  but  we  are 
concerned  with  the  faith  of  all  our  people,  particularly  those  that  bear 
the  holy  Priesthood,  because  the  records  show  that  there  is  a  very  great 
apparent  lack  of  faith,  as  judged  by  works,  and  it  is  works,  we  know, 
that  is  the  standard  in  the  Church  by  which  we  shall  be  judged. 

So  the  question  arises :  How  can  we  develop  faith  ?  May  I  say, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  there  is  one  means,  I  think,  that  is  all  too 
generally  neglected  in  the  Church,  and  that  is  prayer  in  the  home.  I 
speak  from  my  own  experience,  largely,  and  observation,  when  I  make 
that  remark,  because  if  experience  has  taught  me  one  thing  more  than 
another  it  is  that  God  does  hear  and  answer  the  prayer  that  is  made  to 
him  in  faith,  if  the  prayer  is  accompanied  also  with  the  desire  to  fulfill 
all  the  conditions  of  faith 

Faith,  like  many  other  things,  is  a  gift  of  God,  we  are  told,  so  some 
people  say:  'Why  worry?  If  we  haven't  faith,  God  has  just  denied  it, 
and  we  are  not  to  blame."  Do  we  not  know  that  everything  that  we  have 
comes  from  God — our  homes,  our  families,  any  talents  that  we  may 
have,  health,  and  everything  else  that  we  enjoy?  If  we  violate  the  laws 
of  health  can  we  expect  to  have  health?  If  we  violate  spiritual  laws  can 
we  expect  to  enjoy  a  high  degree  of  spirituality? 

Faith  is  one  of  those  spiritual  gifts  that  I  believe  is  based  upon  law. 
We  learn,  from  the  teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  that  if  we  get  any 
blessing  from  heaven,  it  is  because  we  fulfill  the  conditions  upon  which 
that  blessing  is  based,  and  that  is  a  truth  that  not  only  comes  from  the 
mouth  of  our  Prophet,  it  is  also  a  truth  that  has  been  established  by 
scientific  research.  Every  investigator  in  the  field  of  material  science 
knows  that  when  he  fulfills  the  conditions  he  can  predict  the  results,  and 
if  the  conditions  vary,  then  the  results  will  vary,  and  when  the  conditions 
are  completely  fulfilled  the  result  will  be  realized  completely.  So  faith 
is  one  of  those  gifts  that  we  may  acquire,  that  we  may  cultivate,  only  if 
we  fulfill  the  conditions  upon  which  faith  is  based. 

FAITH  BASED  UPON  INTELLIGENCE 

Now,  I  believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  can  appeal  not 
only  to  our  emotions  and  to  that  obedience  to  conditions  that  we  might 
say  springs  from  emotion,  but  we  can  also  appeal  to  the  intellect.  The 
God  whom  we  worship  is  characterized  by  intelligence.  That  is  his 
glory.  We  are  his  children,  literally  his  spirit  children,  and  in  the 
great  law  of  the  universe,  in  the  biological  field,  at  any  rate,  we  have 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


73 


found — this  has  been  revealed  to  us  by  scientific  research — that  like 
begets  like.  As  children  of  our  Father  in  Heaven  we  possess,  in  embryo, 
at  least,  his  attributes.  We  possess  intelligence,  which  has  been  given 
to  us  to  be  developed  and  to  grow. 

We  have  in  the  Church  a  saying  that  we  very  frequently  repeat :  "As 
God  now  is,  man  may  become,"  a  beautiful  statement  of  the  great  law 
of  eternal  progression.  I  believe  that  in  this  matter  of  faith  we  can 
•ippeal  to  the  intelligence  as  well  as  to  the  emotions,  and  I  believe  that 
if  we  are  going  to  have  our  faith  firmly  established  on  an  enduring  rock, 
it  must  be  based  upon  the  agreement  of  our  intelligence  with  our 
emotions. 

EVIDENCES  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH'S  INSPIRATION 

That  brings  us  to  the  question,  is  this  God's  work,  or  is  it  not  ?  Was 
it  set  up  by  God-inspired  men,  or  was  it  set  up  by  Joseph  Smith,  who 
was  self -deceived  and  might  have  been  a  fanatic  ?  Well,  of  course,  that 
is  a  very  hard  saying,  but  anyhow,  it  is  either  one  thing  or  the  other.  It 
is  either  God-inspired  or  else  Joseph  Smith  was  a  fanatic.  I  can  not  see 
how  we  can  logically  escape  the  conclusion. 

So  the  question  is :  Is  it  God-inspired  ?  That  brings  us,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  to  the  Prophet  himself,  and  therein,  I  believe,  if  we  make 
a  careful  study  of  the  Prophet,  of  his  life,  of  his  works,  of  his  achieve- 
ments and  character,  we  shall  find  that  we  cannot  explain  him  except  on 
the  true  basis  that  he  was  God-inspired.  The  Prophet,  as  we  know,  was 
not  trained  for  his  work,  as  the  world  considers  training  necessary.  He 
was  ignorant  of  the  teachings  of  the  scholastic  world.  He  did  not  have 
the  advantage  of  trained  teachers,  of  laboratories,  of  museums,  of  art 
galleries,  and  all  of  the  other  influences  and  facilities  that  in  this  modern 
day  are  considered  necessary  to  qualify  a  man  for  an  important  job. 

But  what  did  he  do  ?  That  is  the  question.  Well,  I  think  in  looking 
at  the  Prophet  we  might  look  at  internal  evidences  and  external  evi- 
dences. When  we  look  to  internal  evidences  we  are  looking  to  those  that 
operated  with  Peter.    You  remember  when  Christ  asked : 

Whom  do  men  say  that  I,  the  Son  of  man,  am  ? 

And  they  said,  some  say  that  thou  art  John  the  Baptist ;  some,  Elias ; 
and  others,  Jeremias,  or  one  of  the  prophets. 

He  saith  unto  them,  But  whom  say  ye  that  I  am  ? 

You  remember  the  answer : 

And  Simon  Peter  answered  and  said,  Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son 
of  the  living  God. 

And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  him,  Blessed  art  thou,  Simon 
Barjona;  for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my 
Father  which  is  in  heaven. 

In  other  words,  the  surest,  the  best  method  we  have  of  convincing 
ourselves  that  Joseph  Smith  was  genuine  is  the  spirit  of  inspiration  and 
revelation.  Every  believing  soul  who  will  humble  himself  and  ask  in 
faith,  and  try  to  fulfill  the  conditions  necessary  to  get  an  answer,  can 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


receive  it  and  will  receive  it.  It  is  by  divine  inspiration  that  President 
Grant  yesterday  morning  was  able  to  declare  that  he  knew  that  this  is 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet.  That 
was  the  same  method  by  which  Brother  George  F.  Richards  was  also 
able  to  testify.  All  the  brethren  who  have  borne  their  testimony  in  this 
Conference  received  that  knowledge  in  that  way — a  sure,  safe  way. 

But  to  many,  trained  by  the  methods  by  which  the  public  schools 
are  now  training  our  young  people,  that  may  not  appear  to  be  the  right 
way.  They  want  a  materialistic  way.  Well  we  can  appeal  to  external 
evidences  that  can  be  brought  to  bear  in  this  case.  What  are  they?  We 
may  look  at  the  teachings,  at  the  achievements,  and  at  the  character  and 
the  personality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  then  we  find,  with 
respect  to  his  teachings,  that  he  knew  more  about  the  spirit  and  the  truth 
of  the  Holy  Bible  than  all  the  trained  theologians  in  the  world.  We  re- 
member that  in  his  day  frightful  doctrines  were  taught — infant  damna- 
tion ;  a  literal  lake  of  fire  and  brimstone,  into  which  those  who  knew  no 
law  were  pitched  and  would  remain  eternally,  because  they  had  not  died 
with  a  profession  of  faith  upon  their  lips.  It  did  not  make  much  differ- 
ence what  their  conduct  was,  if  they  had  not  confessed  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.    Frightful  doctrines!  Horrible! 

Well,  what  did  the  Prophet  teach  about  those  things?  What  did 
the  Prophet  teach  about  many  other  things?  There  is  one  thing  that 
he  taught  that  I  think  reveals  the  justice,  the  mercy  and  love  of  God  to 
a  greater  degree  than  anything  else  that  I  have  known  about — the  doc- 
trine of  salvation  for  the  dead. 

How  many  of  the  college  trained,  university  trained  theologians  of 
the  world  could  tell  you  what  Paul  meant  when  he  said : 

Else  why  are  ye  baptized  for  the  dead,  if  the  dead  rise  not  at  all, 
why  are  ye  then  baptized  for  the  dead? 

And  when  Peter  said : 

For  this  cause  was  the  Gospel  also  preached  to  them  that  are  dead, 
that  they  might  be  judged  according  to  men  in  the  flesh,  and  yet  live 
according  to  God  in  the  spirit. 

Who  understood  what  was  meant  when  Peter  said  that  during  the 
time  of  separation  of  the  body  from  the  spirit  the  Savior  went  and  preach- 
ed to  those  that  were  sometime  disobedient  in  the  days  of  Noah  ?  Who 
among  all  these  scholars  could  tell  what  Malachi  meant  when  he  wrote 
of  turning  the  hearts  of  the  children  to  the  fathers,  and  the  fathers  to 
the  children  ?  Those  doctrines  that  make  a  reality  of  what  Brother  Levi 
Edgar  Young  quoted  this  morning  from  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price : 

For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory —  to  bring  to  pass  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man! 

Do  we  want  to  say  that  God  is  going  to  fail,  or  will  he  accomplish 
his  purpose?  How  could  he  accomplish  his  purpose,  except  for  this 
beautiful  doctrine,  of  which  the  Christian  world  knew  nothing?  They 
knew  nothing  then ;  they  know  nothing  now.    But  in  teaching  that  doc- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


75 


trine,  that  the  work  of  redemption  will  go  on  in  the  world  of  spirits,  in 
cooperation  with  the  work  here,  and  thus  that  the  gates  of  heaven  will 
be  opened  to  all  who  fulfill  the  conditions,  either  in  this  life  or  in  the 
life  beyond,  what  does  it  reveal?  It  reveals  that  God  does  love  us,  that 
he  has  provided  a  way,  that  his  purposes  will  be  accomplished,  and  that 
the  great  majority  of  his  children  will  be  saved,  with  some  degree 
of  glory. 

Who  knew  about  those  things  ?  Well,  that  teaching  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  alone  stamps  him,  in  my  judgment,  as  the  greatest  religious 
teacher  that  has  lived  in  mortality  since  the  days  of  the  Savior. 

SOME  ACHIEVEMENTS  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH 

But  it  is  not  for  his  teachings  alone  that  we  can  regard  him  as  being 
a  remarkable,  outstanding  man.  We  look  to  his  achievements.  We  find 
that  in  the  short  period  of  fifteen  years,  from  the  time  that  he  began  to 
translate  the  Book  of  Mormon  until  he  met  his  death  at  the  hands  of 
foul  assassins,  he  did  a  work  that  cannot  be  explained  except  on  the 
ground  that  he  was  divinely  led,  taught  and  inspired,  or  else  that  he  was 
a  super-man,  greater  than  any  mortal  that  has  ever  lived  upon  the  earth. 

What  did  he  do?  Led  his  poverty-stricken  people,  who  were  per- 
secuted and  driven  during  all  of  that  time,  laid  out  cities  on  new  and 
beautiful  lines,  built  two  temples,  set  up  a  well-nigh  perfect  church 
organization,  counseled,  administered  to  and  comforted  his  persecuted 
people,  while  he  himself  was  almost  continually  persecuted.  His  literary 
work  alone  was  in  quantity,  and  certainly  in  quality,  enough  to  occupy 
the  full  time  of  any  man  of  college  or  university  training  that  we  know 
anything  about  during  a  full  life-time.  Six  volumes  of  Church  History ; 
translated  the  Book  of  Mormon ;  wrote  a  book  of  revelations  containing 
truths  that  indicated  a  far  more  complete  knowledge  of  the  plan  of  sal- 
vation than  all  the  teachers  of  Christianity  since  the  days  of  the  Savior 
and  his  apostles  had  ever  exhibited. 

Well,  now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  when  we  contemplate  these 
things  and  call  them  to  the  attention  of  our  young  people  with  an  appeal 
that  they  go  and  study  the  Prophet  from  his  beginning  to  his  end,  his 
achievements,  his  teachings  and  all  that  pertains  to  him,  they  will  find 
something  that  cannot  be  explained  unless  they  do  accept  the  truth  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  divinely  inspired  and  divinely  taught. 

Take  the  translation  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  alone,  translated  in 
the  short  period  of  about  seventy-five  days.  Well,  a  criticism  was  made 
that  it  was  not  punctuated  and  paragraphed.  Do  we  not  know  that  that 
is  one  of  the  strong  evidences  of  the  divinity  of  that  work?  Did  you 
ever  see,  either  in  a  photostatic  copy  or  in  the  real  thing  any  ancient 
writing  that  was  paragraphed?  Were  the  words  and  the  sentences  not 
all  run  in  together?  They  did  not  have  in  those  days — at  any  rate  they 
did  not  exhibit  in  their  writings — the  modern  mode  of  composition  di- 
viding into  sentences,  paragraphs,  etc.,  with  all  of  the  marks  that  go 
with  proper  punctuation.   They  wrote  right  along  continuously.  There- 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


f  ore  to  charge  that  that  work  was  the  work  of  an  ignoramus  because  it 
lacked  those  elements  is  to  say  that  it  was  divine,  because  the  translation 
was  a  literal  translation. 

That  great  volume,  written  from  translated  dictation  in  the  incred- 
ibly short  time  of  about  seventy-five  days  without  what  we  find  in 
modern  manuscripts — erasures,  insertions,  etc.,  but  just  written  right 
along  continuously — stamps  Joseph  Smith  as  some  one  who  was  either 
God-taught  or  supermortal,  as  judged  by  all  the  standards  that  the  world 
has  set  up  by  which  to  measure  men. 

So  I  appeal  very  earnestly  to  our  young  people  to  study  the  Prophet, 
measure  him,  examine  him  by  exactly  the  same  standards  that  are  given 
to  them  in  their  schools,  colleges,  and  universities  by  which  to  evaluate 
men.  And  what  will  you  conclude  if  you  do  that?  I  think  you  will  at 
least  conclude  that  he  was  a  most  wonderful  man.  As  Josiah  Quincy 
once  said  in  his  book,  "Figures  of  the  Past,"  pages  376  to  400 : 

JOSIAH  QUINCY'S  TRIBUTE 

It  is  by  no  means  improbable  that  some  future  text-book,  for  the  use 
of  generations  yet  unborn,  will  contain  a  question  something  like  this : 
"What  historical  American  of  the  19th  Century  exerted  the  most  powerful 
influence  upon  the  destinies  of  his  countrymen?"  And  it  is  by  no  means 
impossible  that  the  answer  to  that  interrogatory  may  be  thus  written, 
"Joseph  Smith,  the  Mormon  Prophet." 

The  wonderful  influence  which  this  founder  of  religion  exerted,  and 
still  exerts,  throws  him  into  relief  before  us,  not  as  a  rogue  to  be  in- 
criminated, but  as  a  phenomenon  to  be  explained. 

And  he  ends  his  chapter  with  these  words : 

I  have  endeavored  to  give  the  details  of  my  visit  to  the  Mormon 
Prophet  with  absolute  accuracy.  If  the  -reader  does  not  know  what  to 
make  of  Joseph  Smith  I  cannot  help  him  out  of  the  difficulty.  I  myself 
stand  helpless  before  the  puzzle. 

Josiah  Quincy,  you  know,  was  a  trained  man,  trained  after  the 
manner  of  Harvard  University,  and  trained  in  the  wisdom  of  the  world. 
He  occupied  an  important  position  as  Mayor  of  the  City  of  Boston ;  and 
yet  this  is  his  statement.  He  made  his  visit  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  in 
May,  1844,  a  very  few  weeks  before  his  martyrdom,  in  company  with 
Charles  Francis  Adams.  He  saw  the  Prophet,  who  knew  not  of  his 
coming.  He  saw  him  exactly  as  you  would  find  him  on  any  day,  and 
yet  he  was  so  influenced  by  the  personality  of  Joseph  Smith,  and  by  his 
accomplishments,  his  achievements,  that  he  could  not  explain  him. 

RESULTS  OF  FAITH 

He  was  unexplainable  from  the  standpoint  of  the  world.  To  say 
that  he  was  a  fanatic,  that  he  was  ignorant,  that  he  was  untrained — all 
of  which,  of  course,  might  be  true,  so  far  as  his  schooling  was  concerned, 
so  far  as  his  opportunity  for  culture  in  his  boyhood  was  concerned — 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IV INS 


77 


but  he  was  born  of  honest  parents,  and  he  was  reared  in  a  religious  home, 
where  love  and  faith  prevailed.  They  believed  their  Bible,  and  so  when 
Joseph  read :  "If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  who  giveth 
to  all  men  liberally,  and  upbraideth  not  .  .  .  but  let  him  ask  in  faith," 
Joseph  believed.  With  what  result  ?  With  the  result  that  he  went  into  the 
woods  to  pray,  in  the  same  spirit  and  for  the  same  purpose  that  we  ought 
to  pray,  in  humility,  desiring  the  help  of  heaven.  And  he  got  it,  so  he 
claimed.  Well,  what  was  the  claim  ?  The  most  glorious  vision  that  has 
ever  yet  been  given  to  mortal  man,  in  which  he  beheld  the  very  God  of 
Heaven,  the  Father  of  all,  and  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer,  gloriously 
revealed  to  him.  He  heard  their  voices.  He  received  their  instruction. 
Did  he  or  did  he  not  ?  Was  he  mistaken  ?  Explain,  if  he  was  mistaken, 
how  he  got  his  wonderful  knowledge  of  the  whole  field  of  the  Bible,  and 
its  inspiration,  and  how  he  was  able  to  teach  the  glorious  things  he 
taught.  But  he  received  the  visitation  of  other  heavenly  messengers. 
Were  these  things  true? 

ADVICE  TO  YOUNG  PEOPLE 

As  I  say  to  young  people,  I  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  how 
can  you  explain  Joseph  Smith?  I  have  only  indicated  an  outline  of  the 
study  that  might  be  made,  but  I  think  it  is  the  most  important  study  that 
any  young  person,  or  any  unconvinced  older  person  might  make.  And 
if  we  will  make  it  in  honesty,  in  sincerity,  with  a  desire  to  know  the  truth, 
asking  God  to  help  us — following  the  instructions  given  in  Moroni  10 :4 
— we  shall  certainly  not  be  left  in  doubt  as  a  result  of  a  careful,  thorough 
study;  we  must  come  to  the  conclusion  that  we  have  a  sure  and  a  solid 
basis  for  our  faith. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  get  that  faith.  If  we  have  it  how  can 
we  be  slackers  in  this  Church  ?  How  could  any  holder  of  the  holy  Priest- 
hood be  a  slacker?  Why  not  respond  to  the  teachings  that  are  given  to 
us  by  the  Presidency  of  this  Church  and  the  inspired  leaders  of  this 
Church,  and  those  that  we  may  read  in  the  standard  works  of  the  Church  ? 
Why  not  respond  and  act,  knowing  of  a  surety  that  God  lives,  and  that 
this  is  his  work — a  knowledge  that  all  of  us  can  acquire  if  we  only  will 
put  ourselves  in  a  condition  to  receive  that  knowledge. 

God  help  us  to  do  so,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  am  pleased,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  stand  before  you  in 
this  capacity  this  afternoon,  and  bear  my  testimony,  along  with  the 
brethren  who  have  already  addressed  you,  to  the  efficacy  and  the 
truthfulness  of  this  wonderful  work  in  which  we  are  engaged. 

There  are  many  things  that  might  be  said  here  this  afternoon, 
many  lines  of  thought  that  might  be  followed,  and  one  wonders 
just  what  he  may  say  that  may  be  of  worth  and  value  to  the  con- 
gregation.   It  is  no  mean  responsibility  to  stand  here  and  occupy 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  time  of  eight  or  ten  thousand  people.  You  have  come  for  a  pur- 
pose, and  if  we  fail  to  meet  that  purpose  perhaps  we  shall  fall  under 
condemnation. 

The  other  day,  some  little  time  ago,  I  was  talking  with  a  banker 
who  knew  my  father,  and  he  wanted  to  express  a  word  of  appre- 
ciation for  him,  and  he  said :  "He  comes  the  nearest  to  combining 
religion  and  business  of  any  man  I  know."  He  said:  "For  me,  they 
don't  mix.    I  am  a  banker."   I  wonder  whether  they  ought  not  to. 

The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  a  gospel  of  love.  When  Jesus 
was  asked  what  is  the  greatest  commandment,  he  said  that  the 
first  and  greatest  commandment  is  to  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all 
thy  might,  mind  and  strength.  "And  the  second  is  like  unto  it ;  thou 
shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself." 

Now,  we  are  here  to  hear  about  the  Gospel,  and  perhaps  to  get 
some  stimulus  from  the  discussion,  and  if  I  could  say  anything  that 
would  make  a  single  person  go  out  of  this  Conference  feeling  more 
friendly  toward  his  brother  and  his  neighbor  than  when  he  came 
here,  I  would  feel  amply  repaid. 

I  believe  that  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  in  it  every  element 
that  is  essential  and  necessary  for  the  conduct  of  all  the  affairs  of 
human  activity.  In  other  words,  I  believe  that  there  is  nothing  that 
men  do  in  honor  before  God,  and  essential  to  their  development  and 
well-being,  in  which  that  fundamental  principle  of  love  should  not 
enter. 

The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  plan  that  was  given  in  the 
beginning,  when  the  foundation  of  the  world  was  laid,  for  the 
maximum  and  greatest  development  of  mankind.  Christ  came  to 
emphasize  that  thing,  and  to  emphasize  it  by  laying  down  his  life, 
in  love,  for  the  redemption  of  mankind.  And  I  firmly  believe  that 
if  we  would,  that  principle  could  characterize  every  worthy  activity 
of  life. 

I  quite  agree  with  my  banker  friend  that  if  the  purpose  of 
banking  is  to  squeeze  out  of  the  populace  the  last  ounce  of  its  life- 
blood,  so  to  speak,  in  interest,  that  they  are  inimical.  But  I  believe 
that  that  is  not  the  purpose  of  an  institution  of  that  kind.  It  should 
not  be.  It  is  here  for  the  service  of  mankind,  and  when  it  fails  to 
serve  it  fails  in  its  purpose ;  and  when  it  fails  to  appreciate  man  and 
its  responsibility  to  him,  it  fails  in  its  purpose.  I  believe  that  even 
such  a  cold-blooded  institution  as  that  could  be  and  should  be  gov- 
erned and  administered  according  to  the  principles  of  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  believe  that  if  men,  the  rulers  of  nations,  could  so  eradicate 
from  their  hearts  the  greed  and  avarice  that  are  likely  to  accumu- 
late in  administering  business  affairs,  that  even  nations  could  live 
in  peace  and  harmony  and  trust  each  other ;  that  even  nations  could 
allow  a  weaker  nation  to  subsist  and  exist  in  peace  and  lend  it  a 
friendly  hand. 

I  believe  that  all  of  the  trouble  that  the  world  is  going  through 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


79 


now,  and  all  of  the  headlines  that  we  read  in  such  hideous  black 
type  in  the  newspapers,  come  about  because  men  fail  to  appreciate 
that  one  principle.  If  we  could  only  bring  that  to  bear  upon  the 
activities  of  our  lives,  we  would  be  happy  and  we  would  be  pros- 
perous, and  would  be  courageous  and  fearless  in  facing  the  future. 

I  think  the  greatest  fear  that  men  have,  perhaps,  is  the  fear  that 
this  avaricious  spirit  will  cause  somebody  to  come  in  upon  them 
in  their  old  age,  and  deprive  them  of  the  means  of  self-maintenance 
and  the  respect  that  goes  with  it.  If  every  man  knew  that  he  could 
live  to  the  end  of  his  days  with  an  opportunity  to  serve  the  Lord 
and  his  fellows,  and  eat  and  wear  what  was  essential  to  his  hap- 
piness, this  would  be  a  wonderful  and  an  Utopian  world.  But  it 
will  never  be  until  we  introduce  into  our  daily  activities  that  prin- 
ciple of  love. 

Sitting  before  me  is  a  vast  body  of  the  Priesthood  of  God.  Every 
one  of  you  who  has  accepted  that  responsibility  has  allowed  a 
servant  of  God  to  lay  his  hands  upon  your  head  and  commission 
you  to  function  in  the  orders  of  the  Priesthood,  and  when  you  do  so 
you  either  expressly  or  tacitly  agree  to  serve  God  to  the  best  of  your 
ability. 

Now,  if  we,  all  of  us  who  hold  the  Priesthood,  could  consciously 
constitute  ourselves,  as  a  body,  to  apply  in  our  daily  activities  the 
principle  of  love,  we  could  dominate  the  society  in  which  we  live 
until  that  spirit  would  be  characteristic  of  it. 

I  am  sure  that  there  is  efficacy  in  that  principle.  I  have  seen  it 
applied  in  instances.  I  have  seen  it  in  combat  with  the  principle  of 
greed  and  avarice,  and  I  have  seen  it  come  off  victorious.  I  have 
seen  the  man  who  allowed  it  to  actuate  his  life,  grow  from  one  po- 
sition of  responsibility  to  another,  until  he  commanded  the  respect 
of  all  his  fellows.  I  know,  because  of  observations,  that  it  is  a  virile 
principle  in  human  activity. 

I  have  had  the  experience  of  living  in  a — pueblo,  I  was  going 
to  say — in  a  population  where  the  members  of  the  Church  so  dom- 
inated the  activities  of  that  people  that  the  spirit  of  love  was  para- 
mount, and  I  have  seen  that  people  grow  to  independence,  isolated 
by  an  imaginary  boundary  line  in  a  foreign  country.  I  have  seen 
them  develop  along  those  principles  to  wonderful  accomplishments, 
and  I  have  seen  the  spirit  of  peace  and  love  settle  down  upon  that 
community,  and  watched  its  growth  and  development. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  it  is  a  principle  of  life  and  activ- 
ity, a  principle  that  can  dominate  our  lives  and  enter  into  them,  and 
I  testify  that  when  it  does,  peace  and  joy  and  harmony  come  into  the 
lives  of  those  who  practice  it. 

We  have  been  told  this  afternoon  that  one  of  the  needs  of  our 
youth — or  yesterday,  rather,  we  were  told  that  one  of  the  crying 
needs  of  our  youth  is  more  faith  in  the  leaders  of  this  Church.  I 
want  to  bear  my  testimony  this  afternoon  to  that  fact,  and  then  I 
want  to  add  that  the  leaders  of  the  Church  are  worthy  of  that  faith. 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  have  been  blessed,  perhaps,  greater  than  the  average  member  of 
the  Church,  in  the  privilege  of  associating  with  the  leaders  of  the 
Church  during  the  time  of  my  life,  and  I  have  associated  rather 
intimately  with  the  man  who  now  directs  the  destinies,  under  the 
inspiration  of  God,  of  this  body  of  worshipers  we  call  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  have  known  his  associates 
in  the  presiding  quorums  of  the  Church.  And  then  I  have  had  al- 
most six  years  of  contact  with  one  of  the  bodies  of  the  General 
Authorities  of  this  Church,  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy.  I 
have  met  them  all  in  solemn  assembly  in  the  Temple  of  God,  and 
I  have  yet  to  hear  fall  from  their  lips  an  expression  of  an  ulterior 
purpose.  I  have  never  heard,  in  their  councils,  any  advice  given 
but  under  the  inspiration  of  God,  if  I  could  interpret  that  spirit. 

I  know  that  they  have  your  welfare  at  heart,  and  I  believe  that 
any  man  or  woman  who  has  no  "axe  to  grind,"  who  will  come  and 
investigate  their  lives  and  their  conduct,  cannot  help  but  admit  it. 
They  try  to  exemplify  in  their  lives  the  cardinal  principles  of  the 
Gospel  of  Christ. 

Now,  they  do  not  pretend  to  be  perfect,  any  more  than  I  do.  I 
do  not  pretend  to  come  near  perfection.  But  I  do  want  to  tell  you 
that  they  serve  you  to  the  best  of  their  ability,  and  if  any  man  in  the 
congregation,  or  outside  of  it,  under  the  sound  of  my  voice,  which 
goes  out  over  the  radio,  were  asked  to  step  into  their  shoes,  the  only 
thing  he  could  do  would  be  to  serve  according  to  his  light  and  that 
which  God  might  give  him,  and  they  do  it  in  your  interest  and  in 
mine.  And  God  has  blessed  them,  and  he  has  carried  this  Church 
onward  in  that  spirit  of  love  and  unselfishness  and  sacrifice. 

I  doubt  whether  there  is  a  man  in  those  councils  who  sought 
the  appointment,  either  personally  or  through  his  friends.  It  comes 
unbidden.  It  always  comes  as  a  shock  to  the  man  who  receives  it, 
and  usually  it  requires  the  giving  up  of  ideals  and  ambitions  that 
he  has  had ;  to  accomplish  things  in  a  field  of  labor  to  which  he  is 
attached ;  and  every  man  surrenders  that  in  a  spirit  of  humility  and 
service,  and  I  think,  as  a  people,  we  ought  to  honor  and  respect  them, 
to  trust  them  and  to  love  them. 

If  we  will  clean  house  and  put  our  hearts  in  attune  with  the 
Spirit  of  God,  go  daily  about  our  business,  under  the  influence  of 
that  Spirit,  God  will  bless  us  with  contentment  and  a  peace  and  a 
freedom  from  worry  that  we  can  get  no  other  way. 

The  Spirit  of  God  is  in  the  Church.  The  spirit  of  love  is  in  the 
Church.  While  we  may  have  some  sordid  experiences  at  times,  they 
but  try  us,  and  if  we  will  meet  them  in  that  spirit  of  love  God  will 
carry  us  through.  While  we  may  sometimes  surfer  loss  and  sacri- 
fice, there  is  a  development  even  in  that  which  should  make  us  love 
our  God  and  our  fellows  more. 

I  pray  that  God  may  be  with  us,  that  he  may  give  us  an  appre- 
ciation of  the  Gospel  that  we  have  within  our  midst,  the  tool  that 
is  given  to  us,  if  we  will,  by  which  we  are  to  carve  out  from  the 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


81 


granite  of  our  existence  a  niche  and  a  place  in  which  to  live.  If  we 
will  try  it  we  will  find  it  effective. 

Benjamin  Franklin  once  said  that  he  learned  as  a  boy,  that  if  he 
ever  wanted  a  man  to  take  an  interest  in  him,  the  thing  he  had  to 
do  was  to  let  that  man  serve  him  some  way.  God  stands  ready  to 
serve  us  through  the  instrumentality  of  this  organization  that  we 
have.  We  stand  as  your  servants,  ready  to  serve  you.  We  love 
you.  If  you  will  serve  the  Gospel  that  has  been  given  to  us,  in  that 
spirit,  you  will  learn  to  love  that  Gospel  just  the  same  way.  If  you 
will  give  it  your  time  and  your  talent,  you  will  love  it  in  proportion 
to  the  service  that  you  give  unto  it. 

That  is  my  prayer  in  your  behalf,  that  you  and  I  and  all  of  us 
may  freely  give  unto  this  great  body  and  unto  our  God  the  service 
that  we  owe  it  and  him,  that  in  giving  we  may  gain  greater  power  to 
give,  and  greater  love  and  greater  satisfaction.  God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  sincerely  trust  that  I  may  be  led  to  say  this  afternoon  that 
which  will  be  best  for  me  and  best  for  all  who  are  here.  The  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  is  in  this  great  congregation,  gathered  together  for  the 
purpose  of  paying  tribute  to  our  Eternal  Father,  and  to  receive  from 
him  information  and  knowledge  that  will  help  us  on  the  journey 
of  life. 

Yesterday  morning,  during  the  sermon  of  President  Grant, 
when  he  called  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  Word  of  Wisdom  was 
given  by  revelation  for  the  well  being  of  the  people,  I  thought  of 
how,  from  the  beginning,  the  Lord  has  had  a  personal  interest  in 
his  children  and  has  directed  them  in  both  temporal  and  spiritual 
affairs.  His  first  commandment  to  our  father  Adam,  when  he  sent 
him  out  of  the  Garden  of  Eden  into  the  world  that  was  to  bring 
forth  thorns,  thistles  and  noxious  weeds,  was  concerning  his  daily 
labor : 

In  the  sweat  of  thy  face  shalt  thou  eat  bread,  till  thou  return  unto 
the  ground,  for  out  of  it  wast  thou  taken;  for  dust  thou  art  and  unto 
dust  shalt  thou  return. 

Later  he  called  Upon  Adam  by  his  own  voice  and  revealed  the 
foundation  principles  of  the  Gospel,  particularly  the  saving  or- 
dinance of  baptism. 

The  Lord  visited  him  and  said  unto  him : 

I  am  God.  I  made  the  world  and  men  before  they  were  in  the  flesh. 

If  thou  wilt  turn  unto  me,  and  hearken  unto  my  voice,  and  believe,  and 
repent  of  all  thy  transgressions,  and  be  baptized,  even  in  water,  in  the  name 
of  mine  only  Begotten  Son,  who  is  full  of  grace  and  truth,  which  is  Jesus 
Christ,  the  only  name  which  shall  be  given  under  heaven,  whereby  salva- 
tion shall  come  unto  the  children  of  men,  ye  shall  receive  the  gift  of  the 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Holy  Ghost,  asking  all  things  in  his  name,  and  whatsoever  ye  shall  ask, 
it  shall  be  given  unto  you. 

*   *  * 

Wherefore,  [said  he]  teach  it  unto  your  children,  that  all  men,  every- 
where, must  repent,  or  they  can  in  no  wise  inherit  the  kingdom  of  God,  for 
no  unclean  thing  can  dwell  there,  or  dwell  in  his  presence ;  for,  in  the  lan- 
guage of  Adam,  Man  of  Holiness  is  his  name,  and  the  name  of  his  Only 
Begotten  is  the  Son  of  Man,  even  Jesus  Christ,  a  righteous  Judge,  who 
shall  come  in  the  meridian  of  time. 

Therefore  I  give  unto  you  a  commandment,  to  teach  these  things  freely 
unto  your  children. 

And  we  find  in  the  revelations  of  God  that  Adam  faithfully  con- 
formed to  the  trust  that  was  given  unto  him,  and  he  taught  the  word 
of  God  unto  the  children  of  men  all  the  days  of  his  life.  And  in 
time  the  Savior  came,  in  the  meridian  of  time,  and  he  performed  his 
work. 

Now  we  are  told  by  John  that  there  was  a  man  of  the  Pharisees, 
named  Nicodemus,  a  ruler  of  the  Jews. 

The  same  came  to  Jesus  by  night  and  said  unto  him :  Rabbi,  we  know 
that  thou  art  a  teacher  come  from  God ;  for  no  man  can  do  these  miracles 
that  thou  doest,  except  God  be  with  him. 

Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  him :  Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee, 
Except  a  man  be  born  again,  he  cannot  see  the  kingdom  of  God. 

And  then  he  said  further : 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  except  a  man  be  born  of  water  and  of 
the  Spirit,  he  cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God.  That  which  is  born 
of  the  flesh  is  flesh ;  and  that  which  is  born  of  the  Spirit  is  spirit.  Marvel 
not  that  I  said  unto  thee,  Ye  must  be  born  again. 

And  in  his  revelation  in  this  day  he  said  to  his  Apostles : 

I  say  unto  you  again,  that  every  soul  who  believeth  on  your  words, 
and  is  baptized  by  water  for  the  remission  of  sins,  shall  receive  the  Holy 
Ghost.  *  *  * 

I  say  unto  you,  they  who  believe  not  on  your  words,  and  are  not  bap- 
tized in  water  in  my  name,  for  the  remission  of  their  sins,  that  they  may 
receive  the  Holy  Ghost,  shall  be  damned,  and  shall  not  come  into  my  Fa- 
ther's kingdom,  where  my  Father  and  I  am. 

In  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  we  find  a 
newness  of  life,  as  it  was  in  the  days  of  the  Master.  Men  and  women 
come  into  a  new  way  of  thinking.  I  have  talked  to  hundreds  of 
people  who  have  been  baptized  into  the  Church,  who  had  thought, 
before  they  came  into  the  Church,  that  they  were  worshiping  God, 
and  that  they  were  doing  the  things  that  were  right.  But  they  had 
no  knowledge  of  God.  They  had  never  been  taught  that  the  Lord 
knew  them  before  they  were  born,  as  he  stated  to  Adam — that  he 
made  the  world,  he  made  men,  and  he  knew  them.  It  had  never 
occurred  to  them  that  there  was  a  real  birth  of  the  Spirit  before 
the  foundation  of  the  earth  was  laid.  They  had  never  comprehended 
the  fact  that  our  Eternal  Father  is  a  personal  being,  and  that  we 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENN10N 


83 


are  made  in  his  image,  and  that  we  are  like  him  in  form.  It  had 
never  occurred  to  them  that  there  was  such  a  thing  as  the  preaching 
of  the  Gospel  to  those  that  are  dead,  or  that  there  is  an  eternity  of 
the  marriage  covenant,  in  the  form  and  way  in  which  the  Lord  has 
decreed.  There  was  no  light,  so  far  as  the  word  of  God  was  con- 
cerned, that  had  come  into  their  lives. 

But  after  an  investigation  of  these  principles  of  the  Gospel,  after 
they  had  become  acquainted  with  the  plan  of  God,  in  part,  and  had 
received  baptism  by  water,  by  immersion,  for  the  remission  of  their 
sins,  and  had  received  the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  reception  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  that  witness  which  the  Lord  promised  unto  the 
children  of  men,  through  Peter  and  his  Apostles,  in  their  day, — 
when  they  received  that  inspiration  and  confirmation  they  came  in- 
to a  new  world  of  thinking  and  worshiping.  Men  and  women  have 
testified  to  me  by  the  hundreds  that  they  could  no  more  go  back 
into  their  old  way  of  living,  or  their  former  belief  or  understanding, 
than  they  could  go  back  to  yesterday.  They  were  born  again,  born 
v  of  the  water  and  born  of  the  Spirit,  into  a  newness  of  life,  into  a 
great  world  of  activity,  into  an  influence  that  came  direct  from  God, 
our  Father.  And  they  felt  it,  no  matter  where  they  lived.  In  all  the 
nations  of  the  earth  are  men  found  who  bear  this  testimony. 

Yesterday  we  heard  the  testimony  of  the  President  of  the 
Church,  who  has  just  returned  from  his  foreign  mission,  reporting 
that  men  and  women  are  bearing  testimony  to  the  divine  mission  of 
the  Prophet  and  of  the  work  of  God,  in  foreign  lands.  They  them- 
selves are  no  more  a  part  of  the  world.  They  live  among  the  people, 
of  course,  in  the  different  nations  where  they  are — as  we  do  here. 
They  associate  with  men  and  women  who  have  not  yet  been  per- 
mitted to  see  the  truth.  But  because  of  their  knowledge  of  the 
Gospel  of  Christ  they  are  separate  and  apart.  It  is  just  another 
world.  This  is  something  to  live  for.  It  is  something  to  plan  for, 
a  foundation  upon  which  men  and  women  can  build  for  the  great 
future  that  shall  come  to  every  son  and  daughter  of  God,  no  matter 
where  he  may  be  or  who  he  is. 

This  thing  called  mortality  will  come  to  an  end.  Men  will  go 
on,  and  those  who  have  received  the  light  of  the  everlasting  Gospel 
will  be  better  prepared  to  progress  and  grow  than  those  who  have 
not.  How  long  it  will  continue  before  the  children  of  men  shall  all 
have  an  opportunity  I  know  not.  There  are  millions  of  people  in 
this  earth  who  will  never  hear  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  the 
flesh.  But  through  the  great  plan  of  redemption  that  our  Father 
in  heaven  has  revealed  in  the  day  and  generation  in  which  we  live 
it  will  be  taught  to  them  hereafter.  For  men  on  the  earth  shall  seek 
for  their  dead  and  shall  attempt  to  carry  out  the  plans  and  purposes 
of  God,  and  when  those  who  have  died  are  ready,  they  shall  have 
an  opportunity  to  accept  the  Gospel. 

The  Gospel  is  a  great  and  a  glorious  message.  It  is  a  powerful 
influence  for  good.    It  will  shape  the  destiny  of  the  human  family 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


here  and  hereafter.  It  will  make  men  better  merchants,  better 
bankers,  and  better  business  men,  and  it  will  make  church  men 
better  church  men.  It  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  and 
there  is  none  who  can  afford  to  be  without  it.  It  is  the  word  of  God. 
it  is  not  an  eternal  plan.  It  is  not  alone  the  doctrine  of  Jesus  Christ, 
or  his  word  alone,  for  he  said :  "My  doctrine  is  not  mine  but  his  that 
sent  me."  He  planned  for  it  in  the  foundation  of  this  earth  and 
before,  when  he  formed  the  great  family  that  we  call  the  human 
family,  and  made  it  possible  for  men  and  women  to  understand  it 
even  there  and  to  have  it  revealed  unto  them  here. 

There  will  always  be  contention  in  the  world  and  among  the 
nations  of  the  earth,  until  we  can  come  to  a  unity  of  the  faith.  Peace, 
I  think,  shall  never  come  to  this  world  until  the  Son  of  Man  comes 
again,  for  nation  shall  rise  against  nation,  wars  shall  occur,  and 
famine  shall  be  a  part  of  the  history  of  the  world.  But  to  those  who 
keep  the  commandments  of  God,  their  paths  will  be  made  easy,  com- 
pared to  the  ways  of  those  who  do  not.  They  shall  not  forfeit  any- 
thing that  may  be  for  their  good.  Trials  often  are  for  our  good  and 
should  be  endured  by  all.  Trials  make  men  realize  more  fully  the 
responsibilities  they  owe  to  one  another. 

This  Church,  the  kingdom  of  God  on  the  earth,  is  a  growing 
church.  The  Lord  is  at  the  helm.  He  places  those  whom  he  wishes 
to  preside.  He  raises  them  up  from  the  days  of  their  childhood  and 
from  their  primeval  childhood.  They  are  not  without  his  notice,  for 
he  knows  them.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  gives  us  that  informa- 
tion, and  he  received  it  from  his  Father. 

I  bear  my  testimony  unto  you  that  I  know  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God,  and  that 
those  who  succeeded  him  are  prophets  of  the  Living  God,  and  the 
leaders  of  his  Church;  that  President  Grant  is  the  prophet  of  God 
at  this  time  and  the  leader  of  this  Church  and  the  mouthpiece  of 
God  unto  the  children  of  men. 

I  bear  this  testimony  in  humility  and  in  the  love  of  God.  Great 
are  the  powers  of  truth  that  the  Lord  has  revealed,  and  they  shape 
the  destiny  of  every  man  who  pays  attention  to  them  and  who 
believes  them.   I  say  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "For  the  Strength 
of  the  Hills." 

ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  desire  to  address  myself  more  particularly  to  the  second  and  sub- 
sequent generations  of  Mormonism  and  to  consider  with  them,  and  with 
myself  as  one  of  them,  the  matter  of  our  heritage.   What  is  it? 

PIONEERS  LAID  THE  FOUNDATION 

Our  fathers  came  here  to  a  land  of  forbidding  desolation.  Through 
grueling  toil,  rigidly  imposed  self-denial  and  incredible  privation  and 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN 


sacrifice  they  subdued  it,  converting  barren  wastes  into  fruitful,  harvest- 
laden  fields.  Most  of  them  have  now  passed  on,  leaving  behind  the 
visible  evidences  of  their  conquest. 

But  the  houses  they  built,  many  of  them,  have  been  torn  down,  or 
hare  fallen  into  decay.  The  acres  they  tilled  have  passed  into  strange 
hands.  Many  of  us  have  gone  out  away  from  the  scenes  of  their  achieve- 
ments to  be  ourselves  founders  of  communities  and  reclaimers  of  waste 
places.  While  we,  and  all  among  us,  benefit  immeasurably  from  the 
works  they  wrought,  yet  we  may  not  have  in  a  more  particular  sense, 
and  in  the  very  nature  of  things  many  of  us  cannot,  have  any  part  of 
the  physical  possessions  they  assembled.  We  have  multiplied  far  beyond 
the  possibility  of  such  division  or  partition.  Obviously  these  things 
cannot  be  our  real  heritage  for  they  are  not  enduring  but  by  possession 
are  exhausted  and  by  use  are  consumed. 

Our  fathers  themselves  had  left  behind  them  houses  and  lands 
when  they  came  here.  None  of  these  could  they  bring.  But  what  mattered 
that  ?  They  did  bring  with  them  the  faith  and  the  spirit  and  the  power 
and  the  will  and  the  purpose  to  subdue  other  lands,  and  to  build  new 
houses,  to  raise  up  other  communities  and  to  devise  other  means  of 
supplying  physical  needs.  These  qualities  of  heart  and  soul  could  not 
be  taken  from  them;  they  were  beyond  the  grasp  of  the  despoiler. 
They  were  the  veritable  treasures  of  heaven  which  thieves  could  not 
break  through  nor  steal,  and  which,  if  incorporated  into  life,  could  never 
be  corrupted  by  moth  nor  rust. 

They  could  have  stayed  where  they  were,  retaining  their  houses  and 
their  lands,  and  could  have  escaped  oppression  and  lived  in  physical 
comfort,  by  renouncing  their  convictions  concerning  the  meaning  and 
purpose  of  life.  This  they  scorned  to  do,  choosing  rather  to  believe 
that  if  they  sought  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness, 
all  these  things  they  could  provide. 

On  this  foundation  principle  they  built.  By  adherence  to  it  they 
triumphed.  They  recognized  that  no  enduring  society  was  ever  founded 
on  the  basis  of  physical  comfort,  but  that,  paradoxical  as  it  may  seem, 
the  supposedly  nebulous,  intangible  spiritual  things  constitute  the  only 
solid  foundation  on  which  to  build.  They  had  the  depth  of  conviction 
which  gave  them  the  courage  to  choose  the  spiritual  and  to  make  it  the 
chief  stone  of  the  corner  upon  which  to  rear  their  commonwealth. 

A  RICH  HERITAGE 

The  proper  evaluation  of  the  spiritual  in  the  life  of  the  individual 
and  the  society;  the  courage  to  abandon  physical  comfort  when  the 
choice  lay  between  the  abandonment  of  that  and  the  abandonment  of 
the  soul's  convictions;  the  faith  that  if  they  walked  by  the  inner  light 
+hey  would  end  in  triumph ;  the  will  and  the  purpose  to  conquer  a  desert, 
to  walk  fearlessly  into  the  face  of  danger  and  to  die,  if  need  be,  that 
the  immortal  soul  might  still  be  free — this  is  our  heritage  from  them. 
In  it  all  the  heirs  may  share,  howsoever  numerous  they  may  become, 
without  fear  that  in  possessing  it  either  will  deprive  the  other.  Though 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


multiplied  descendants  may  depart  these  valleys  and  go  to  the  outermost 
parts  of  the  earth,  they  still  may  carry  with  them  this  heritage.  It  is  one 
of  the  eternal  indestructible  verities  of  life  that  shall  always  endure. 
It  embodies  the  great  foundation  principles  upon  which  individual 
stability  and  community  honor  and  national  integrity  must  be  built. 

Our  fathers  derived  it  out  of  their  religion  which  taught  them 
belief  in  God,  the  Ruler  of  the  universe  and  the  Author  of  their  lives ; 
it  taught  that  life  has  a  purpose  and  man  a  destiny  which  stretches  out 
beyond  the  years  of  this  earth  life  into  the  realms  of  eternity;  that  his 
existence  here  has  for  its  purpose  the  development  of  all  mental  and 
spiritual  powers  latent  within  him,  which  can  be  accomplished  by  learning 
to  think,  to  create,  to  deal  intelligently  with  the  forces  of  the  universe ; 
and  above  all  to  understand  and  help  his  fellows  and  learn  to  behave 
with  justice  toward  them  in  all  the  concerns  of  life;  that  after  death 
he  would  live  again  and  enter  upon  a  new  life  throughout  the  course 
of  which  he  can  go  on  acquiring  knowledge,  growing  in  power  and 
understanding  and  intelligence  without  limit  of  time ;  that  the  only  pos- 
session he  can  take  with  him  into  that  new  life  will  be  the  spiritual  and 
mental  power  which  he  has  gained  by  his  diligence  here.  As  expressed 
in  a  revelation  in  which  they  believed : 

Whatever  principle  of  intelligence  we  attain  unto  in  this  life,  it  will 
rise  with  us  in  the  resurrection. 

And  if  a  person  gains  more  knowledge  and  intelligence  in  this  life 
through  his  diligence  and  obedience  than  another,  he  will  have  so  much 
the  advantage  in  the  world  to  come. 

This  is  but  a  rational  application  of  a  principle  well  understood 
as  governing  in  all  human  affairs.  Mastery  of  natural  forces  can 
be  achieved  only  by  understanding  and  observing  the  laws  by  which 
they  are  governed.  It  is  fair  to  conclude  that  spiritual  and  mental 
growth  can  be  attained  only  by  obedience  to  the  laws  on  which 
they  are  predicated.  If  through  diligence,  observance  of  correct  prin- 
ciples, discipline  of  the  mind  and  of  the  spirit,  a  man  attains  to  a  fine 
development  of  personality  in  this  life,  surely  it  is  not  unreasonable 
to  suppose  that  that  will  be  his  imperishable  possession  and  glory  in  the 
life  he  enters  upon  after  death.  On  the  contrary,  if  through  lethargy 
or  sin  his  self-realization  in  this  life  is  dwarfed,  he  shall  be  handicapped 
to  that  extent  as  he  enters  upon  the  new  world. 

Actuated  by  these  beliefs  it  is  not  strange  that  our  fathers  exalted 
spiritual  development  above  material  gain,  nor  that  they  should  endure 
physical  hardship  and  privation,  cleaving  to  the  soul's  conviction  rather 
than  retain  physical  comfort  at  the  expense  of  their  deep-seated  faith. 

Cooperation,  mutual  helpfulness,  the  uniting  of  their  strength  and 
their  resources  in  their  struggle  for  subsistence  were  elementary  prin- 
ciples of  conduct,  which  flowed  naturally  out  of  their  religion. 

CONVICTION  COMES  THROUGH  ENDEAVOR 

Their  philosophy  was  one  of  individual  salvation,  spiritual  and 
temporal.  Every  man  had  to  know  the  truth  for  himself .  His  conviction 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN 


87 


of  it  is  an  individual  affair,  obtained  through  his  own  endeavor  by  con- 
formance to  the  stipulated  conditions.  Only  the  individual  himself  can 
develop  his  bodily  or  mental  or  spiritual  powers.  No  one  else  may  do 
either  for  him.  The  necessary  consequence  of  such  belief  is  the  develop- 
ment of  self-reliance,  industry  and  diligence,  thrift  and  frugality.  A 
society  composed  of  individuals  actuated  by  such  beliefs  and  possessed 
of  such  qualities  must  itself  become  the  expression  of  them.  It  was 
taught  that  the  idler  should  not  eat  the  bread  of  the  laborer  in  Zion.  But 
the  apparent  harshness  of  this  creed  is  softened  and  tempered  by  ad- 
monitions to  charity  and  kindness  and  help  for  the  unfortunate.  In  the 
revelations  by  which  they  were  guided  one  reads : 

And  now,  I  give  unto  the  church  in  these  parts  a  commandment,  that 
certain  men  among  them  shall  be  appointed,  and  they  shall  be  appointed  by 
the  voice  of  the  church ;  and  they  shall  look  to  the  poor  and  the  needy,  and 
administer  to  their  relief  that  they  shall  not  suffer ;  and  send  them  forth 
to  the  place  which  I  have  commanded  them. 

Behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  ye  must  visit  the  poor  and  the  needy  and 
administer  to  their  relief,  that  they  may  be  kept  until  all  things  may  be 
done  according  to  my  law  which  ye  have  received. 

And  remember  in  all  things  the  poor  and  the  needy,  the  sick  and  the 
afflicted,  for  he  that  doeth  not  these  things,  the  same  is  not  my  disciple. 

Self-effort  is  the  condition  precedent  to  individual  advancement,  but 
cooperation  and  mutual  helpfulness  are  the  facilitating  means.  It  is  the 
verdict  of  history  as  well  as  of  religion  "That  there  is  no  reasoned 
peace  of  heart,  no  balance  and  no  safety  in  the  soul,  until  a  man  in  losing 
his  life  has  found  it,  and  has  schooled  and  disciplined  his  interests  and 
will  beyond  greeds,  rivalries,  fears,  instincts  and  narrow  affections," 
which  is  to  say,  until  the  spiritual  assumes  ascendency. 

SPIRITUALITY  WITHIN  REACH  OF  ALL 

The  way  to  realization  of  man's  spiritual  self  is  the  same  for  all. 
Young  and  old,  rich  and  poor,  all  have  to  conform  themselves  to  the 
law  which  governs  it.  That  law  knows  no  favorites  and  recognizes 
no  exceptions.  Money  cannot  purchase  it  for  it  is  beyond  price.  To 
youth  it  makes  no  concessions.  The  aged  may  radiate  its  sweetness 
and  serenity  only  if  their  lives  have  conduced  to  its  unfolding.  It  may 
be  had  on  the  same  terms  by  the  rich  and  the  poor  alike.  There  are 
no  other  terms.  Spirituality  may  not  be  defined.  It  may  only  be  illus- 
trated. It  is  a  quality  that  exhibits  itself  in  the  poise  and  serenity  of 
those  who  possess  it.  It  reveals  itself  in  those  moments  of  high  exalta- 
tion when  a  man's  soul  soars  high  above  material  things  and  wings  its 
way  into  the  realm  of  the  infinite.  It  is  that  in  man  which  gives  him 
kingship  over  himself  and  makes  him  aware  of  his  kinship  with  God. 
It  was  that  in  our  fathers  which  gave  them  the  courage  to  forsake  their 
homes  and  their  lands  and  their  places  of  security  to  come  to  this  cruel 
wilderness  and  to  meet  with  fortitude  and  good  cheer  the  pains  and 
sufferings  and  distresses  incident  to  their  coming. 

Spirituality  can  neither  bud  nor  bloom  in  a  soul  cankered  by  avarice 


5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  covetousness.  He  who  would  possess  it  must  purge  himself  of 
these.  It  comes  into  fruition  when  nurtured  by  acts  of  mercy  and 
love. 

THE  RICH  AND  THE  POOR  WARNED 

This  •  religion  which  our  fathers  received  and  have  forwarded  and 
transmitted  to  us  is  a  very  practical  religion.  It  takes  note  of  the  conditions 
upon  which  alone  man's  powers  may  be  unfolded  and  his  higher  and 
better  self  realized,  and  then  proceeds  to  provide  the  tasks  and  mark  out 
the  course  necessary  to  that  realization.  Since  selfishness  and  greed 
are  fatal  to  spiritual  realization,  the  rich  are  enjoined  to  give  to  the  poor. 
Since  envy  and  covetousness  are  equally  fatal  the  poor  are  admonished 
to  contrition  of  spirit  and  respect  for  other  men's  possessions.  In  the 
revelation  it  is  said: 

Wo  unto  you  rich  men,  that  will  not  give  your  substance  to  the 
poor,  for  your  riches  will  canker  your  souls ;  and  this  shall  be  your 
lamentation  in  the  day  of  visitation,  and  of  judgment,  and  of  indignation: 
the  harvest  is  past,  the  summer  is  ended,  and  my  soul  is  not  saved ! 

Wo  unto  you  poor  men,  whose  hearts  are  not  broken,  whose  spirits 
are  not  contrite,  and  whose  bellies  are  not  satisfied,  and  whose  hands 
are  not  sayed  from  laying  hold  upon  other  men's  goods,  whose  eyes  are  full 
of  greediness  and  who  will  not  labor  with  your  own  hands ! 

No  man,  rich  or  poor,  is  justified  under  this  doctrine  in  grasping 
out  in  insatiable  greed  for  that  which  he  has  not  labored  to  produce,  nor 
in  despoiling  another  of  his  possessions.  But  those  who  have  are  with 
cheerfulness  to  relieve  the  needy,  who  are  to  receive  in  gratitude  without 
arrogant  demanding. 

TITHES  AND  OFFERINGS 

A  practical  means  of  carrying  out  these  admonitions  is  likewise 
provided.  By  revelation  it  was  established  as  a  standing  law  of  the  Church 
forever  that  all  should  pay  one-tenth  of  their  interest  annually  for  the 
support  of  the  poor,  the  establishment  of  the  Church,  and  the  forwarding 
of  its  work.  Special  contributions  in  the  form  of  fast  offerings  are 
likewise  required 

It  may,  I  think,  with  safety  be  said  that  no  person  who  fully  obeys 
these  two  requirements  can  be  wholly  selfish  or  avaricious,  nor  can 
the  carnal  in  him  assume  ascendency  over  the  spiritual.  Giving  and  dis- 
bursing to  be  orderly  and  effective  must  pass  through  established  chan- 
nels. This,  too,  is  provided  for  in  the  Church  our  fathers  transmitted 
to  us.  In  this  day  when  an  extraordinary  need  has.  arisen  the  organiza- 
tion is  all  ready,  and  for  a  hundred  years  has  been  ready,  to  meet  it. 
The  Church  has  undertaken  to  do  so.  The  indicated  sources  of  revenue 
are  all  sufficient  to  the  purpose  if  the  members  obey  the  requirements. 
Let  us  resolve  that  no  one  of  us  will  fail. 


ELDER  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 


89 


CONVICTION  GAVE  COURAGE 

Inspired  and  impelled  by  the  burning  conviction  that  they  had  had 
given  to  them  the  truths  of  heaven  our  fathers  had  the  courage  to  leave 
houses  and  lands,  homes  and  firesides,  friends  and  kinsmen  and  journey 
into  the  wilderness.  They  had  the  industry  to  wring  from  the  desert 
a  sustenance,  the  frugality  to  provide  in  the  day  of  plenty  for  their  needs 
in  the  day  of  adversity,  the  self-reliance  to  fend  for  themselves,  the 
spiritual  vision  to  work  cooperatively  for  the  common  good,  and  the 
benevolence  to  help  the  .distressed.  The  example  of  these  virtues  they 
have  bequeathed  to  us. 

God  grant  that  we  may  be  worthy  heirs  of  so  great  an  inheritance 
that,  enlarged  and  expanded  and  added  upon  by  our  own  contributions, 
we  may  pass  it  on  to  the  generations  to  succeed  us,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus,  Amen. 

ELDER  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 

Former  President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

It  is  a  very  great  pleasure  to  be  privileged  to  meet  again  with  the 
Saints  in  General  Conference. 

I  love  the  Church.  I  love  our  leaders.  I  love  the  teachings  of  the 
Church,  and  I  love  the  missionaries  who  labor  in  the  mission  field.  It 
has  been  a  great  honor  to  be  privileged  to  labor  so  many  years  with  them 
in  the  Southern  States  Mission.  And  I  love  the  Saints  because  of  their 
wonderful  sacrifices  for  this  great  work.  I  think  it  is  an  honor  to  be  a 
member  in  this  Church.  I  am  very  grateful  for  the  opportunity  that 
I  have  had  of  laboring  in  the  mission  field.  I  think  it  is  one  of  the 
greatest  privileges  in  the  Church.  I  have  often  said  that  if  the  Prophet 
Joseph  had  given  his  life  for  no  other  thing  than  the  establishment  of 
the  great  missionary  system  of  this  Church,  he  certainly  would  not  have 
died  in  vain. 

No  one  can  be  associated  with  the  fine  young  men  and  women  of  the 
Church  who  go  into  the  mission  field,  and  see  how  marvelously  they 
grow  in  faith,  in  understanding  of  life,  and  in  good  works,  in  the  brief 
period  of  a  mission,  without  realizing  its  worth  to  the  body  of  the 
Church.  As  I  have  often  said,  when  laboring  among  those  young  men 
and  women,  if  they  are  not  worthy  to  cry  repentance  to  the  world  I  know 
not  where  the  Lord  could  find  people  worthy  of  such  a  task. 

Since  having  returned  home,  a  few  months  past,  to  reside  again  in 
Zion,  or  the  headquarters  of  the  Church,  I  feel  very  grateful  for  my 
association  with  the  fine  Saints  here  at  home.  I  am  grateful  for  the 
wonderful  faith  and  testimony  that  I  find  in  the  midst  of  the  people 
here. 

But  there  are  some  things,  as  indicated  by  some  of  the  addresses 
given  at  this  Conference,  that  are  more  or  less  disturbing.  While  as- 
sociating with  some  of  my  friends  recently  I  was  asked  whether  I  was 
orthodox  or  liberal.  I  did  not  know  before  that  we  had  two  parties  in 
the  Church-   It  caused  me  to  give  considerable  thought  to  the  question ; 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  when  I  listen  to  our  brethren  here  bear  testimony  of  the  truth  of  the 
divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  the  truth  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  and  of  the  great  work  of  the  Savior  of  the  world,  I  thank 
God  that  I  am  orthodox. 

In  my  business  we  do  a  great  deal  of  exchanging,  and  if  I  were 
going  to  make  an  exchange  I  would  want  to  know  that  I  was  getting 
something  as  good  as  I  was  giving.  I  have  thought  of  the  orthodox 
teachings  of  this  Church,  and  I  have  never  heard  any  stories,  in  print 
or  otherwise,  to  compare  with  the  story  told  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  save  the  story  of  the  Son  of  Man. 

After  the  silence  of  ages,  without  any  word  from  heaven,  surely 
nothing  in  all  the  world  could  be  so  refreshing,  so  soul-satisfying  as  to 
have  some  one  again  come  from  God  and  speak  to  this  world,  and  make 
again  alive  to  us  the  reality  of  the  existence  of  God  and  of  the  life  to 
follow. 

If  there  were  nothing  more  in  the  story  told  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  than  the  visitation  of  Moroni,  standing  before  him,  a  resurrected 
being,  as  far  as  we  know,  who  had  once  lived  upon  this  earth,  to  make 
real  to  us  the  fact  that  we  shall  live  again  in  bodily  form,  and  know 
each  other,  and  possess  the  knowledge  and  experiences  of  mortality,  I 
would  rather  have  that  knowledge  than  any  philosophies  I  know  of  iri 
this  world,  outside  of  the  orthodox  teachings  of  the  Mormon  Church. 

Recently  I  heard  this  statement  made:  "Is  it  not  rather  absurd  to 
think  that  we  have  to  regard  the  Word  of  Wisdom  as  we  have  been 
regarding  it?"  If  I  were  going  to  give  up  my  faith  in  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  I  would  want  something  in  exchange  for  it  that  is  better. 

I  went  into  the  home,  recently,  of  some  friends,  to  inquire  as  to  their 
welfare,  and  found  a  broken-hearted  woman  and  a  broken  home.  Why  ? 
Because  disobedience  to  the  Word  of  Wisdom  had  wrecked  that  home. 
I  once  read  a  statement  by  a  man  who  said  he  had  seven  good  reasons 
why  he  was  opposed  to  liquor  and  to  saloons.  Three  were  daughters 
and  the  other  four  were  sons.  He  said:  "You  cannot  run  a  saw-mill 
without  logs,  nor  a  saloon  without  making  drunkards  of  boys  and 
drunkards'  wives  of  the  girls." 

If  we  give  up  the  fundamental  teachings  of  the  Church,  these 
orthodox  things  that  we  have  been  taught, — the  principle  of  prayer  and 
faith  in  God,- — what  can-  they  offer  us  in  exchange  ?  Think  of  when  our 
loved  ones  are  lying  sick  and  at  the  point  of  death,  if  we  had  to  give  up 
the  faith  we  have  been  taught  from  our  childhood,  that  we  can  do  as 
James  of  old  said:  "Call  the  elders  of  the  church,  and  let  them  pray 
over  him  anointing  him  with  oil,  *  *  *  and  the  prayer  of  faith  shall 
save  the  sick."  I  don't  know  what  men  or  women  can  offer  us  in  their 
modern  thought  in  exchange  for  such  fundamental  and  comforting 
teachings. 

Now,  I  mustn't  take  more  of  your  time.  There  are  many  mission 
presidents.  I  hope  while  I  am  here  at  home  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
who  know  me  shall  know  that  I  am  a  fundamentalist ;  that  I  believe 
in  the  orthodox  teachings  of  this  Church.  The  Savior  once  said,  quoting 
from  the  prophets  of  old: 


ELDER  LEROY  MALLORY 


91 


Man  shall  not  live  by  bread  alone,  but  by  every  word  that  proceedeth 
from  the  mouth  of  God. 

And  in  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
he  said: 

My  word  is  sharper  than  a  two-edged  sword  to  the  dividing  asunder 
of  both  bone  and  marrow. 

I  never  listen  to  any  philosophies  of  men  that  cause  my  soul  to 
respond,  but  when  I  listen  to  President  Grant  and  these  leaders,  who 
have  spoken  here  in  this  Conference,  there  is  something  that  goes  through 
me  like  a  shock  of  electricity,  and  I  know  that  the  word  of  God  is 
sharper  than  a  two-edged  sword. 

I  pray  to  God  that  I  may  be  able  so  to  live  always  that  my  soul 
will  respond  to  such  teachings,  and  that  I  might  be  a  power  for  good  in 
the  midst  of  the  Saints  at  home,  now  that  my  work  in  the  mission  field 
is  ended. 

God  bless  you  and  our  leaders  and  the  missionary  cause  throughout 
the  worlds  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  LEROY  MALLORY 

Former  President  of  the  Tahitian  Mission 

My  dear  brothers  and  sisters*  it  is  indeed  a  great  responsibility 
for  me  to  occupy  this  position.  I  pray  that  during  the  few  moments 
I  stand  here  I  may  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  help  me. 

I  am  indeed  grateful  to  have  had  the  honor  to  labor  for  seven 
years  in  the  Tahitian  Mission  among  some  of  the  most  wonderful 
people  on  this  earth.  I  am  thankful  for  the  many  things  that  they 
have  taught  me.  I  love  them  as  I  do  my  own  kin.  I  bring  you 
greetings  and  best  wishes  from  them.  The  greatest  desire  in  their 
hearts  is  to  have  the  honor  some  day  of  meeting  in  person  the  Gen- 
eral Authorities  of  this  Church.  They  would  love  to  come  to  our 
temples  to  do  the  work  for  their  dead.  They  are  praying  every  day 
for  that  opportunity. 

Our  people  are  faithful  and  sincere.  They  have  the  faith  of  a 
small  child.  They  kneel  in  prayer  in  absolute — I  was  going  to  say, 
knowledge  that  their  prayers  will  be  answered.  I  have  seen  their 
sick  healed  almost  instantly. 

Our  missionaries  in  that  field  are  doing  a  splendid  work,  al- 
though we  have  many  hardships  to  contend  with,  and  much  travel- 
ing. Those  in  our  ranks  have  been  few,  but  they  have  been  faithful. 
They  have  done  a  splendid  work.  They  are  still  doing  a  splendid 
work. 

We  were  certainly  happy  to  have  Brother  Woodbury  come  into 
the  field  to  direct  them.  He  is  a  splendid  man,  and  he  is  loved  by 
those  people.  His  good  wife,  I  am  sure,  will  do  much  to  help  the 
work  along  in  that  mission. 

The  last  four  years  have  been  years  of  depression,  but  not- 
withstanding that  condition  our  people  have  been  faithful.  They 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


have  faithfully  paid  from  their  earnings  their  tithes  and  offerings, 
although  they  have  not  amounted  to  much  in  dollars  and  cents.  In 
the  last  four  years  they  have  constructed  five  chapels  in  the  mission. 
Many  of  the  rocks  used  in  construction  were  carried  for  long  dis- 
tances, upon  the  shoulders  of  our  brothers  and  our  sisters.  I  am 
sure,  if  you  understood  the  conditions  under  which  those  chapels 
were  erected,  you  would  admire  the  faith  and  devotion  of  those  dear 
people. 

You  fathers  and  mothers  who  have  sons  in  that  mission,  peace 
be  in  your  hearts.  Your  sons  are  well.  They  are  happy.  They  are 
glad  to  have  had  the  opportunity  of  going  to  that  mission.  They 
have  burning  in  their  hearts  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  Gos- 
pel. They  are  loved  by  the  people.  There  is  no  place  in  this  world 
where  the  missionaries  are  more  dearly  loved  or  where  their  labors 
are  more  appreciated  than  they  are  in  that  field.  I  say  the  responsi- 
bility of  our  missionaries  is  great,  but  notwithstanding  that  condi- 
tion they  are  continuing  to  go  forward. 

I  remember  an  incident  that  happened  just  about  a  year  ago. 
I  was  talking  to  one  of  the  leading  attorneys  of  those  islands,  and 
in  the  course  of  our  conversation  he  said  to  me :  "Mr.  Mallory,  you 
know  I  have  a  son  who  has  now  reached  the  age  where  he  must  leave 
this  colony  to  go  to  school."  He  said :  "I  would  like  to  send  him 
to  America.  I  would  like  very  much  to  place  him  in  the  home  of 
some  good  Latter-day  Saint  family."  By  the  way,  this  gentleman 
was  not  a  member  of  our  Church.  He  said :  "I  know  that  in  that 
home  he  would  be  taught  the  things  that  my  wife  and  I  would  like 
to  have  him  taught.  If  some  day  in  the  future  this  boy  could  return 
to  us  as  fine,  as  clean  a  man  as  your  missionaries  who  have  come 
to  this  field,  my  wife  and  I  would  be  the  most  happy  parents  in  this 
world." 

Another  time  the  Governor  of  French  Oceania  was  making  an 
inspection  tour  of  the  Lower  Tuamotu  group.  He  called  on  one  of 
the  islands  on  which  is  located  one  of  our  largest  branches.  As  his 
ship  pulled  up  to  the  wharf  he  was  met  by  our  twenty-seven  piece 
L.  D.  S.  band.  He  was  escorted  through  the  town,  which  he  found 
clean,  and  the  houses  well  painted.  He  found  no  drunkenness.  He 
found  the  people  tending  to  their  business.  He  asked  the  Chief  how 
it  was,  and  who  had  taught  them  to  do  those  things.  He  was  told 
the  Mormon  missionaries.  He  called  the  people  together  and  said 
to  them :  "You  people — it  makes  no  difference  to  what  denomina- 
tion you  belong — I  ask  you  to  listen  to  the  advice  and  counsel  of 
these  Mormon  missionaries.  I  promise  you  that  if  you  do  so  you 
will  continue  to  grow,  to  prosper,  to  have  beautiful  homes,  a  beauti- 
ful city,  a  nice  place  to  live." 

Another  time  the  same  Governor  was  making  a  trip  to  another 
island.  He  wanted  a  certain  man  to  be  chief  of  that  island.  This 
man  happened  to  be  one  of  our  Elders,  a  native  missionary  who  was 


ELDER  LEROY  MALLORY 


93 


laboring  on  that  island.  In  fact,  he  is  the  only  man  belonging  to 
the  Church  on  that  island. 

When  I  visited  the  island,  some  time  later,  I  asked  him  how  it 
was  that  he  had  been  chosen  chief  of  that  group  of  people,  there  be- 
ing so  many  people  from  different  organizations  there.  He  told  me 
when  the  Administrator  came  he  asked :  "Is  there  any  member  of 
the  Mormon  Church  here?"  This  man  told  him  that  he  was  a  mem- 
ber. He  said :  "I  would  like  to  talk  to  you."  The  result  was  he  was 
chosen  as  chief  of  that  island.  The  Governor  stated :  "I  want  a  man 
on  whom  I  can  depend,  a  man  who  does  not  drink.  I  know  the  Mor- 
mon people  meet  these  requirements. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  here  at  home  and  help  us  to  carry  on  the 
good  work,  as  our  missionaries  are  doing  in  the  field.  May  we  ever 
heed  the  advice  and  counsel  of  these  noble  men  who  have  been 
chosen  to  direct  this  great  work.  May  we  ever  be  worthy  and  will- 
ing to  do  the  things  asked  of  us,  in  our  different  branches,  in  our 
different  wards,  in  our  stakes,  and  ever  be  found  in  the  line  of  duty, 
I  pray,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

EXPENSIVE  AND  INJURIOUS  HABITS 

We  are  all  looking  for  a  solution  of  our  great  financial  troubles. 
Here  is  one  of  the  troubles  that  cost  us  approximately  $7,150,000,000 
during  the  year  1936.   The  values  given  are  approximate  retail  values. 

Alcohol:    Between  $4,000,000,000  and  5,000,000,000. 

Tobacco:  Cigarets,  139,968,648,406  consumed  in  1936.  That  means 
139.9  cigarets  a  minute  for  every  minute  from  the  birth  of  the  Savior 
until  now. 

Cigars:  4,863,191,852,  or  4.8  cigars  every  minute  from  the  birth  of 
the  Savior  until  now. 

18,030  tons  of  snuff. 

(The  fire  losses  in  the  United  States  for  the  year  1936,  as  estimated 
by  the  insurance  companies,  were  only  $30,000,000.) 

Approximate  retail  value  of  tobacco  consumed  in  the  United  States 
in  1936,  $1,500,000,000.  Worse  than  burning  up  that  much  property, 
because  every  person  that  used  tobacco  injured  himself. 

Coffee  and  tea :  Coffee,  1,739,184,000  pounds.  This  is  equivalent  to 
3  grams  of  caffein  for  every  adult. 

Tea:    82,000,000  pounds. 

Retail  value  of  coffee  and  tea  together,  approximately  $650,000,000. 

Total  for  alcohol,  tobacco,  coffee,  and  tea,  approximately  $7,150,- 
000,000  or  seven  and  a  fraction  dollars  a  minute  for  every  minute  from 
the  birth  of  the  Savior  until  now. 

Do  you  not  think  the  Lord  knew  what  he  was  talking  about  when  he 
gave  the  Word  of  Wisdom  for  our  temporal  salvation?  If  you  do  not, 
study  more,  read  more,  pray  more. 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


REGARDING  TILLERS  OF  THE  SOIL 

I  was  delighted  with  what  Brother  Widtsoe  said  this  morning,  and 
by  the  way,  I  thank  the  Lord  that  Brother  Widtsoe  gave  me  these  figures. 
I  did  not  know  that  there  was  that  much  used. 

The  United  States  of  America  was  cradled  by  the  plowed  field — a 
capable  cradle.  In  the  days  of  Washington  and  Jefferson  it  is  likely  that 
at  least  four-fifths  of  all  Americans  were  farm  folk.  From  this  fact  our 
first  statesmen  took  effective  cues.  Thomas  Jefferson,  preeminent  among 
our  bards  of  prose,  said: 

"Cultivators  of  earth  make  the  best  citizens.  They  are  the  most  vigor- 
ous, the  most  virtuous,  and  the  most  independent.  They  are  tied  to  their 
country  and  wedded  to  its  liberty  and  interests  with  the  most  lasting  bonds. 

"They  are  not  soap-box  orators,  not  one  of  them.  A  farm  is  what 
makes  a  man  loyal  to  his  country.  A  soap-box  orator  is  a  man  that  stirs 
up  trouble. 

"As  long,  therefore,  as  they  can  find  employment  in  that  line,  I  would 
not  counsel  them  to  be  mariners,  artizans,  or  anything  else." 

This  saying  lived  long  as  the  gospel  of  American  leadership,  as  well 
as  of  politics. 

God  grant  that  it  may  return. 

A  FAVORABLE  MAGAZINE  ARTICLE 

I  have  been  reading  from  "Roots  of  America,"  by  Charles  Morrow 
Wilson.  I  hope  that  the  majority  of  you  have  read  Mr.  Wilson's  article 
in  the  September  4th  issue  of  the  Saturday  Evening  Post.  It  is  one  of 
the  most  enlightening  and  splendid  things  ever  written  by  a  non-member 
of  the  Church  in  any  of  our  magazines.  The  young  man  came  to  Utah 
and  was  in  my  office  a  number  of  times,  and  went  down  to  Hurricane 
and  looked  into  the  marvelous  work  done  by  the  people  at  Hurricane. 
Then  he  wrote  this  very  favorable  article — one  of  the  best  I  have  ever 
read. 

The  Choir  sang  "The  Lord  is  My  Refuge,"  after  which  the  bene- 
diction was  pronounced  by  Elder  Thomas  E.  Winegar,  President  of 
the  South  Davis  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Sunday,  October  3. 

THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Long  before  time  to  commence  the  Sunday  morning  session,  the 
great  Tabernacle  auditorium  and  galleries  were  crowded  to  capacity, 
every  available  space  being  occupied.  In  addition,  the  large  Assembly 
Hall  immediately  south  of  the  Tabernacle  was  filled  with  people,  and 
other  thousands  congregated  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds,  where  by  means 
of  amplifying  equipment  that  had  been  installed,  they  were  enabled  to 
listen  to  the  Conference  proceedings  as  they  were  broadcast  from  the 
Tabernacle. 

Conference  reconvened  promptly  at  10  o'clock.  President  Heber 
J.  Grant,  who  presided,  opened  the  meeting  and  announced  that  the 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


95 


Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congregation  would  sing  the  hymn,  "Oh,  Say, 
What  Is  Truth?" 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn,  the  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  H.  Clay  Cummings,  President  of  the  Wasatch  Stake. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Read  the  following  report : 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH,  STAKE,  WARD,  AND  BRANCH  ORGANIZATIONS 
SINCE  LAST  APRIL  CONFERENCE  1937 

New  Mission  Presidents : 

Gilbert  R.  Tingey  appointed  president  of  the  Samoan  Mission  to 
succeed  Wm.  M.  Waddoups. 

Franklin  J.  Murdock  appointed  president  of  the  Netherlands  Mission 
to  succeed  T.  Edgar  Lyon. 

Hugh  B.  Brown  appointed  president  of  the  British  Mission  to  suc- 
ceed Joseph  J.  Cannon. 

Mark  Garff  appointed  president  of  the  Danish  Mission  to  succeed 
Alma  L.  Petersen. 

William  Thomas  Tew,  Jr.,  appointed  president  of  the  East  Central 
States  Mission  to  succeed  James  M.  Kirkham. 

Merrill  Daniel  Clayson  appointed  president  of  the  Southern  States 
Mission  to  succeed  LeGrand  Richards. 

Frank  Evans  appointed  president  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 
to  succeed  Don  B.  Colton. 

David  A.  Broadbent  appointed  to  preside  over  the  North  Central 
States  Mission  to  succeed  Wilford  W.  Richards. 

W.  Aird  Macdonald  appointed  president  of  the  California  Mission , 
to  succeed  Nicholas  G.  Smith. 

Thomas  E.  McKay  appointed  to  preside  over  the  Swiss-German 
Mission  to  succeed  Philemon  M.  Kelly. 

Philemon  M.  Kelly  transferred  to  Berlin  to  preside  over  the  German- 
Austrian  Mission  to  succeed  Roy  A.  Welker. 

Alfred  C.  Rees  appointed  to  preside  over  a  proposed  division  of 
the  German-Austrian  Mission. 

Joseph  Jacobs  appointed  to  preside  over  the  Palestine-Syrian  Mission 
to  succeed  Badwagan  Piranian. 

Carl  F.  Eyring  appointed  to  preside  over  the  newly  organized  New 
England  Mission. 

New  Mission  Organised : 

New  England  Mission  created  by  taking  Massachusetts,  Connecticut 
and  Rhode  Island  from  the  Eastern  States  Mission,  and  Maine,  Vermont, 
New  Hampshire,  Nova  Scotia  and  New  Brunswick  from  the  Canadian 
Mission,  with  headquarters  at  Cambridge,  Massachusetts. 

New  Temple  President: 

President  Stephen  L.  Chipman  appointed  to  preside  over  the  Salt 
Lake  Temple  to  succeed  President  George  F.  Richards. 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Other  Special  Appointments: 

Apostle  George  F.  Richards  appointed  acting  Patriarch  to  the  Church 
and  Supervisor  of  all  Temples. 

D.  Sterling  Wheelwright  appointed  organist  and  director  of  Music 
at  the  Washington,  D.  C,  Chapel. 

New  Member  Appointed  to  General  Committee — Church  Security  Plan : 
J.  Frank  Ward. 

New  Stake  Presidents  Appointed: 

Eugene  Hilton  appointed  president  of  the  Oakland  Stake  to  succeed 
President  W.  Aird  Macdonald. 

Thomas  E.  Winegar  appointed  president  of  the  South  Davis  Stake 
to  succeed  President  James  H.  Robinson. 

Leland  Erastus  Anderson  appointed  president  of  the  South  Sanpete 
Stake  to  succeed  President  Lewis  R.  Anderson. 

Paul  C.  Child  appointed  president  of  the  Pioneer  Stake  to  succeed 
President  Harold  B.  Lee. 

Samuel  E.  Bringhurst  appointed  president  of  Cottonwood  Stake 
to  succeed  President  Henry  D.  Moyle. 

Samuel  G.  Dye  appointed  president  of  Ogden  Stake  to  succeed 
President  Thomas  E.  McKay. 

Henry  Clay  Cummings  appointed  president  of  Wasatch  Stake  to 
succeed  President  David  A.  Broadbent. 

Stayner  Richards  appointed  president  of  Highland  Stake  to  succeed 
President  Marvin  O.  Ashton. 

New  Wards  Organized : 

Stratford  Ward,  Highland  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  Highland 
Park  Ward. 

Elko  Ward,  Nevada  Stake,  taken  from  California  Mission. 
Carlin  Ward,  Nevada  Stake,  taken  from  California  Mission. 
Wells  Ward,  Nevada  Stake,  formerly  independent  branch. 
Firestone  Park  Ward,  Los  Angeles  Stake,  taken  from  Matthews, 
Manchester  and  Walnut  Park  Wards. 

Hartley  Ward,  Alberta  Stake,  formerly  independent  branch. 
Tremonton  1st  Ward,  Bear  River  Stake,  and 

Tremonton  2nd  Ward,  Bear  River  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of 
the  former  Tremonton  Ward. 

Rosemary  Ward,  Lethbridge  Stake,  formerly  an  independent  branch. 

Ward  Re-named : 

Park  View  Ward,  Long  Beach  Stake,  formerly  Long  Beach  East 
Ward. 

New  Independent  Branches : 

Woodland  Branch,  Sacramento  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the 
Sutter  Ward. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


97 


Colton  Branch,  San  Bernardino  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  the 
San  Bernardino  Ward,  was  formerly  a  dependent  branch. 

Wendover  Branch,  Tooele  Stake,  formerly  a  dependent  Sunday 
School  Branch. 

Wards  Disorganized : 

Oakley  4th  Ward,  Cassia  Stake,  consolidated  with  Oakley  2nd  Ward. 

Cedarville  Ward,  Franklin  Stake,  disorganized  and  annexed  to 
Weston  Ward  of  same  stake. 

Auxiliary  Board  Members  Deceased : 

Inez  Knight  Allen,  Relief  Society  General  Board  member. 
Elise  Benson  Alder,  member  of  General  Board  Relief  Society. 
Lenore  Cornwall,  Assistant  Secretary  General  Primary  Board. 

Bishops  Who  Have  Passed  Away : 

Albert  Frank  Hanny,  Bishop  of  Firth  Ward,  Shelley  Stake. 

Quimby  Roundy,  Alton  Ward,  Kanab  Stake. 

Andrew  N.  Seitz,  bishop  of  Veyo  Ward,  St.  George  Stake. 

Others  Who  Have  Died: 
Mary  Teasdel,  artist. 

Elizabeth  J.  Kooyman,  wife  of  Frank  I.  Kooyman,  former  president 
of  the  Netherlands  Mission. 

Frank  Moreland  Dunf  ord,  musician. 

Horace  H.  Cummings,  Church  leader  and  educator  and  former 
member  Deseret  Sunday  School  General  Board. 

Ethel  G.  Reynolds  Smith,  former  member  of  Relief  Society  General 
Board  and  wife  of  Apostle  Joseph  Fielding  Smith. 

Emma  Louise  Stayner  Richards,  mother  of  Apostle  Stephen  L. 
Richards. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

There  are  only  five  minutes  left  until  time  for  us  to  turn  the 
Conference  over  to  the  Choir  recital.  I  do  not  want  to  ask  any  one 
to  occupy  that  short  period  of  time,  so  I  shall  do  so  myself.  I  am  happy 
indeed  to  see  this  marvelous  congregation.  Not  only  are  all  of  the  seats 
taken,  but  people  are  standing  up  in  the  galleries  and  in  the  aisles  below. 
It  is  a  great  evidence  to  me  of  the  growth  of  the  work  of  the  Lord  in 
our  day.  I  think  it  is  perhaps  the  largest  audience  that  I  remember 
to  have  seen  crowded  into  this  building  at  a  Conference  session,  and 
I  am  grateful  for  this. 

A  CHOICE  LAND 

I  am  very  thankful  that  I  am  not  in  the  least  pessimistic  or  at  all 
alarmed  about  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  am  a  firm  believer  that  this 
country,  both  North  and  South  America,  is  the  choice  land  of  the  world, 
a  land  choice  above  all  other  lands,  according  to  the  words  of  the 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


prophets  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  I  believe  in  its  final  destiny.  I 
believe  that  there  is  an  over-ruling  Providence  protecting  this  country. 
I  believe  that  this  is  the  only  place  in  the  United  States  of  America 
where  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  could  have  been 
established  and  continued  without  the  most  terrible  persecution,  worse 
than  anything  we  ever  had. 

FAITH  IN  DIVINITY  OF  THE  GOSPEL 

I  am  very  thankful  indeed  for  the  remarkable  men  and  women 
that  we  have  in  the  Church,  who  are  devoting  their  lives  without 
hesitancy  to  the  advancement  of  the  kingdom  of  God  on  earth.  I 
am  very  thankful  indeed,  in  my  eighty-first  year  (I  will  be  eighty-one 
years  old  in  a  little  more  than  a  month),  that  from  my  childhood  days 
till  now  I  have  never  found  anything  that  has  in  the  least  degree  weakened 
my  faith  in  the  divinity  of  this  work.  I  am  very  thankful  that  faith 
is  a  gift  from  God,  and  that  gift  came  to  me  in  my  young  manhood. 
There  came  into  my  heart  at  that  time  an  abiding  testimony  that  the 
Book  of  Mormon  is  exactly  what  it  purports  to  be.  I  read  that  book 
through  as  a  boy,  prayerfully  and  numbly,  and  there  came  into  my 
very  being — that  part  of  me  that  will  exist  when  my  body  is  placed 
in  mother  earth — an  absolute  assurance  that  that  book  is  exactly  what 
it  purports  to  be.  To  my  mind,  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  the  greatest 
tract,  the  greatest  preacher  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  of  all  the 
literature  that  we  have.  That  book  has  stood  the  test  for  over  a  hundred 
years,  notwithstanding  the  abuse  and  ridicule  that  have  been  brought 
against  it;  year  after  year  additional  evidences  are  coming  regarding 
the  divinity  of  that  book. 

I  remember  when  first  they  said,  "Oh,  it  is  a  falsehood  because 
it  says  the  people  who  lived  on  this  continent  anciently  had  horses, 
and  no  remains  of  horses  have  been  found."  Since  that  time  we  have 
found  in  the  great  oil  fields  of  California  remains  of  horses. 

SKILLFUL  IN  USE  OF  CEMENT 

People  ridiculed  me  because  I  believed  that  those  people  had  erected 
cement  nouses;  they  said  that  there  had  never  been  a  cement  house 
found.  Since  that  time  cement  houses  have  been  uncovered  by  the 
score.  A  great  monument  upon  which  my  Counselor  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr., 
and  my  former  Counselor  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  stood,  covers  eleven  acres 
of  ground — ten  per  cent  more  than  this  Tabernacle  block,  and  as  I  re- 
member it,  is  is  one  hundred  and  fifty  percent  higher  than  this  building. 
The  outside  of  this  great  monument  is  cement,  and  people  have  dug 
down  into  the  earth  in  front  of  this  monument  and  have  found  a  fine 
cement  road,  showing  a  skill  in  the  use  of  cement  equal,  if  not  the 
superior,  to  what  we  have  today.  And  additional  evidences  are  coming 
all  the  time. 

THE  INEXPLICABLE  EXPLAINED 

When  I  was  in  England,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission, 
I  was  entertained  by  the  assistant  manager  of  the  great  New  York  Life 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


99 


Insurance  Company  in  London,  and  one  of  the  guests  at  that  dinner 
was  a  man  who  had  been  connected  with  the  British  Legation.  He  had 
been  to  Canada  a  number  of  times  and  to  United  States  many  times. 
He  said  to  me:  "Mr.  Grant,  I  saw  the  most  inexplicable  thing  in  my 
life  when  I  was  way  up  in  Canada  beyond  the  bounds  of  civilization, 
among  those  heathen  Indians.  I  found  an  exact  copy  of  a  Holy  Land  rug, 
woven  in  small  beads,  the  exact  pattern  of  what  I  had  seen  in  the  Holy 
Land.  How  under  heaven  those  Indians  up  there  who  had  never  heard 
of  Jerusalem  could  duplicate  a  Holy  Land  rug  is  beyond  my  compre- 
hension." 

I  said :  "I  will  give  you  a  copy  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  you  will 
find  that  the  forefathers  of  the  American  Indians  came  from  Jerusalem." 
"What?"  he  said.  "That  explains  the  inexplicable." 

GRATEFUL  FOR  GROWTH  OF  CHURCH 

I  rejoice  beyond  my  powers  of  expression  for  the  growth  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  am  grateful  for  this  magnificent  audience. 
I  am  thankful  for  the  opportunity  that  our  Choir  has  each  Sabbath  of 
broadcasting  their  splendid  music,  and  it  is  doing  more,  I  believe,  to 
create  good  will  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  than  any  of  the  missionary 
work  we  have  established. 

May  the  Lord  bless  every  one  of  us  who  has  a  testimony  of  the 
divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  to  so  order  our  lives  that 
our  integrity,  upright  devotion  to  the  work  of  God  will  preach  the  Gospel, 
is  my  prayer  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  our  Redeemer  and  Savior,  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

During  the  period  from  10:30  to  11 :00  the  following  program  of 
choral  and  organ  music  was  presented  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
Organ,  which  program  was  broadcast  by  radio  throughout  the  United 
States  and  Canada  through  the  courtesy  of  the  Columbia  Broadcasting 
System,  originating  over  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City. 


"Lord,  Thou  Alone  Art  God"  (Mendelssohn)  Choir 

"Devotion"  (Mascagni)   Choir 

"Pilgrim's  Chorus"  (Wagner)   Organ 

"Come  Soothing  Death"  (Bach)   Choir 

"The  Holy  City"  (Adams)   ,  Organ 

"Worthy  is  the  Lamb"  (Handel)  Choir 


The  singing  of  the  Choir  was  conducted  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall. 
Organ  accompaniments  and  Organ  solo  presentations  were  played  by 
Frank  W.  Asper. 

CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR  BROADCAST 

Immediately  after  the  conclusion  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ 
Broadcast,  as  part  of  the  proceedings  of  the  Conference  of  the  Church 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  the  following  program  was  pre- 
sented on  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System's  regularly  scheduled 
Church  of  the  Air  series : 

The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "The 
Spirit  of  God  like  a  Fire  is  Burning." 

"Prayer,"  (Hansel  and  Gretel)  was  sung  by  the  ladies  of  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

APPLIED  CHRISTIANITY 

What  doth  it  profit,  my  brethren,  though  a  man  say  he  hath  faith,  and 
have  not  works?  Can  faith  save  him. —  (James  2:14.) 

In  this  significant  passage,  James  decries  the  impotency  of  faith 
as  a  merely  intellectual  perception,  and  implies  the  importance  of  the 
application  of  truth  to  daily  life  and  conduct.  He  teaches  that  "faith 
is  dead  and  useless  unless  it  expresses  itself  in  a  true  life  and  true 
Christian  activities."  There  has  been,  and  is  today,  too  much  discrepancy 
between  belief  and  practice,  between  the  proclamation  of  high  ideals  and 
the  application  of  these  ideals  to  daily  life  and  living. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  accepting  Christ  as 
the  revelation  of  God  to  man,  believes  that  Jesus  in  his  life  and  teachings 
reveals  a  standard  of  personal  living,  and  of  social  relations,  which,  if 
fully  embodied  in  individual  lives  and  in  human  institutions,  would  not 
only  ameliorate  the  present  ills  of  society,  but  bring  happiness  and  peace 
to  mankind. 

If  it  be  urged  that  during  the  past  two  thousand  years  so-called 
Christian  nations  have  failed  to  achieve  such  a  goal,  we  answer  that  all 
failure  to  do  so  may  be  found  in  the  fact  that  they  have  failed  to  apply 
the  principles  and  teachings  of  true  Christianity 

DENOTE  OBLIGATION 

To  every  sincere  follower  of  Christ  religion  should  denote  not  only 
a  sense  of  relationship  to  God,  but  also  an  expression  of  that  feeling  in 
actions  with  respect  to  right  and  wrong,  and  obligation  to  duty. 

This  was  undoubtedly  the  kind  of  religion  Patrick  Henry  had  in 
mind  when,  in  the  closing  scene  of  his  life,  he  said:  "I  have  now  dis- 
posed of  all  my  property  to  my  family.  There  is  one  thing  more  I  wish 
I  could  give  them,  and  that  is  the  Christian  religion.  If  they  had  that, 
and  I  had  not  given  them  one  shilling,  they  would  be  rich ;  and  if  they 
had  not  that,  and  I  had  given  them  all  the  world,  they  would  be  poor." 

Pure  religion  gives  one  power  to  rise  above  the  selfish,  sensual,  sordid 
life  of  what  Eucken  calls  "pure  nature,"  and  enables  one  to  "experience 
a  divinity  in  life  above  and  beyond  the  world  of  sensible  reality." 

"Without  this  religion,"  this  philosopher  continues,  "no  true  civil- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


101 


ization  is  possible.  A  civilization  declining  all  contact  with  a  supernatural 
life  and  refusing  to  establish  those  mysterious  inner  relations,  gradually 
becomes  a  parody  of  civilization." 

STANDARDS  VIOLATED 

For  six  thousand  years  and  more  the  human  family  has  suffered 
from  unrestrained  expressions  and  manifestations  of  selfishness,  hatred, 
envy,  greed — animal  passions  that  have  led  to  war,  devastation,  pes- 
tilence, and  death.  If  the  simplest  principles  of  the  Savior's  teachings  had 
been  observed  the  recent  world  war,  for  example,  could  have  been  averted. 
The  nation  or  nations  that  began  that  holocaust  violated  some  standard 
or  standards  of  the  Christian  religion — with  what  result  ?  Seven  million 
men  killed.  Five  million  more  dead  of  starvation  and  disease.  Twenty 
million  wounded,  five  million  of  whom  are  maimed  and  crippled  for  life. 
Six  million  men  imprisoned.  Twenty  million  women  in  Europe  deprived 
of  a  home  of  their  own.  Countless  millions  who  suffered  privations  in 
the  trenches,  and  in  lonely  homes  of  the  poor.  Fifty  billion  dollars  worth 
of  material  and  property  destroyed.  One  hundred  billion  dollars  to 
provide  for  the  cost  of  the  war  and  interest. 

And  even  now  as  the  passing  of  time  dims  the  memory  of  that  ter- 
rible experience,  we  again  hear  rumblings  of  threatened  and  deadly 
conflict.  Indeed,  actually  today  in  some  parts  of  the  world  horrors  are 
being  enacted  that  make  the  soul  shudder.  Innocent  human  beings,  non- 
combatants,  helplessly,  desperately  fleeing  to  save  their  lives,  are  blown 
to  pieces  by  death-dealing  missiles  from  the  air.  Children  left  homeless, 
maimed,  and  slaughtered  indiscriminately;  starving  mothers  seeking  to 
give  away  their  famishing  babes  if  by  so  doing  they  can  save  their  lives. 
Because  these  atrocities  are  6,000  or  8,000  miles  away,  we  fail  to  sense 
fully  the  horror  of  it  all.  But  imagine  if  they  were  here,  and  your  boy 
or  girl,  your  mother,  wife,  or  babe  were  subjected  to  such  peril !  If  there 
be  a  means  of  averting  such  calamities,  plain  common  sense,  to  say 
nothing  of  religion's  appeal,  would  prompt  its  acceptance.  These  things 
but  emphasize  the  truth  of  what  Hayden  writes : 

Today,  as  seldom  if  ever  before,  human  society  is  threatened  with 
disintegration,  if  not  complete  chaos.  All  the  ancient  evils  of  human  re- 
lationships, injustice,  selfishness,  abuse  of  strength,  become  sinister  and 
terrible  when  reinforced  by  the  vast  increase  of  material  power.  The  soul 
of  man  cowers,  starved  and  fearful,  in  the  midst  of  a  civilization  grown 
too  complex  for  any  mind  to  visualize  or  to  control.  Joy  and  beauty  fade 
from  human  life.  Yet  life,  abundant,  beauteous  laughing  life,  has  been 
our  age-long  labor's  end.  What  other  conceivable  worth  has  the  mastery 
of  the  material  world,  the  exploitation  of  the  resources  of  nature  and  the 
creation  of  wealth,  except  as  a  basis  for  the  release  of  the  life  of  the 
spirit  ? 

What  he  says  merits  careful  consideration. 

VIOLATIONS  AT  HOME 

But  we  need  not  cross  oceans  to  see  the  effects  of  violations  of 
Christian  ideals.    Crime  in  our  own  country  is  costing  about  fourteen 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


billion  dollars  a  year — all  in  disregard  of  Gospel  teachings  and  ethics. 
"Can  you  imagine,"  says  the  author  of  The  Builders  of  America,  "what 
this  country  would  be  like  if  ten  or  twenty  billion  dollars  a  year  were 
added  to  our  national  income?  Even  if  you  can  imagine  the  result  do 
you  realize  what  it  would  be  like  to  feel  no  need  of  locking  doors  and 
windows,  no  fear  of  leaving  your  car  unprotected,  no  danger  that  your 
wife  or  daughter  would  be  insulted,  or  you  yourself  sandbagged  if  you 
went  out  at  night ;  no  fear  that  you  would  have  any  uncollectable  bills 
except  through  accident  or  unpreventable  misfortune ;  no  fear  that  in  a 
political  election  there  would  be  any  bribery,  or  in  politics  any  graft, 
and  no  fear  that  anyone  anywhere  was  trying  to  'do  you' — Can  you 
imagine  all  that?  It  would  be  heaven  on  earth!  Of  course,  it  cannot 
happen.  Yet  if  all  the  destroyers  of  civilization  could  be  eliminated,  and 
if  the  traits  of  the  rest  of  us  that  come  from  destructive  strains  could 
be  eliminated,  an  approach  to  such  a  state  some  hundreds  of  years  hence 
is  by  no  means  inconceivable."  Let  me  again  emphasize  that  such  a 
desirable  state  of  human  society  is  possible  through  obedience  to  Gospel 
principles. 

If  you  are  now  thinking  that  the  application  of  Christ's  teaching  is 
impracticable  under  modern  conditions,  let  me  ask  you  to  bring  to  mind 
a  few  specific  examples  of  people  who  have  devoted  themselves  to  the 
common  good.  Recall  the  life  of  Florence  Nightingale,  and  a  million 
others  like  her,  unheralded  and  unsung.  Think  of  the  Red  Cross,  a  com- 
paratively .recent  organization  among  Christian  nations.  Think  of 
Abraham  Lincoln,  consecrating  his  life  to  his  country. 

If  still  you  are  doubtful,  consider  the  humble  life  and  great  achieve- 
ments of  Dr.  George  Washington  Carver,  "who  has  done  more  than  any 
other  living  man  to  rehabilitate  agriculture  in  the  South,"  refusing  a 
proffered  salary  of  $100,000,  preferring  to  devote  his  talents  and  energy 
to  the  benefit  of  his  fellowmen 

Christianity  applied  to  daily  life! 

WILLINGNESS  TO  SERVE 

This  willingness  to  serve  others  is  ready  for  expression  in  the  hearts 
of  millions,  if  only  nations  or  groups  in  nations  will  but  point  the  way. 
Here  is  a  recent  illustration :  September  19,  1937,  the  Salt  Lake  Region 
of  the  Church  Security  Plan,  finding  itself  in  need  of  a  new  store  house, 
held  a  special  Fast  Day  for  the  purpose  of  raising  funds  with  which  to 
make  the  first  payment.  The  committee  asked  the  people  to  go  without 
two  meals  on  that  day  and  contribute  the  equivalent  in  cash  for  the 
project.  The  leaders  anticipated  raising  about  $4,000.  The  people  con- 
tributed over  $15,000 — realization  exceeding  anticipation  nearly  four 
times ! 

The  Church  worshiping  in  this  renowned  Tabernacle  today  accepts 
as  literally  true  the  saying  of  Jesus : 

I  am  come  that  they  might  have  life,  and  that  they  might  have  it 
more  abundantly 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


103 


We  believe,  however,  that  this  abundant  life  is  obtained  not  only 
from  spiritual  exaltation,  but  by  the  application  to  daily  life  of  the 
principles  that  Jesus  taught. 

SIMPLE  PRINCIPLES 

These  principles  are  few  and  simple  and  may,  if  desired,  be  applied 
by  every  normal  person.  The  first  of  these,  and  the  foundation  upon 
which  a  true  Christian  society  is  built,  is: 

Love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  mind  and  strength. 
A  belief  in  a  Supreme  Being  who  lives  and  loves  his  children — a 
belief  that  gives  power  and  vigor  to  the  soul.   An  assurance  that  he  can 
be  approached  for  guidance,  and  that  he  will  manifest  himself  to  those 
who  seek  him. 

Another  is :  The  acceptance  of  the  truth  that  life  is  a  gift  of  God, 
and  therefore  divine.  The  proper  use  of  this  gift  impels  man  to  become 
the  master,  not  the  slave  of  nature.  His  appetites  are  to  be  controlled 
and  used  for  the  benefit  of  his  health  and  the  prolongation  of  life.  His 
passions  mastered  and  controlled  for  the  happiness  and  blessing  of  others, 
and  the  perpetuity  of  the  race. 

A  third  principle  is:  Personal  Integrity.  By  this  I  mean,  plain, 
everyday  honesty,  sobriety,  and  respect  for  others'  rights,  such  as  will 
win  the  confidence  of  one's  fellows.  This  recognition  applies  to  nations 
as  well  as  to  individuals.  It  is  as  wrong  for  a  nation,  because  it  is  pow- 
erful, to  steal  from  another  and  oppress  it,  as  it  is  for  an  individual  to 
rob  and  kill  his  neighbor. 

A  fourth  essential  is:  Social  Consciousness  that  awakens  in  each 
individual  the  realization  that  it  is  his  duty  to  make  the  world  better  for 
his  having  been  in  it.  The  very  heart  and  spirit  of  this  standard  is  ex- 
pressed in  the  statement  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith — "If  my  life  is 
of  no  value  to  my  friends,  it  is  of  no  value  to  me." 

Some  day  intelligent  human  beings  will  realize  the  importance  and 
benefit  of  living  in  right  relations  one  with  another.  When  that  time 
comes  the  Savior's  prayer  will  be  in  people's  hearts — "Make  them  one, 
as  thou  Father  and  I  are  one" — Then  when  that  time  comes  "the  war- 
drum  will  throb  no  longer  and  the  battle  flags  be  furled  in  the  Parliament 
of  Man,  the  Federation  of  the  world." 

This  condition  can  be  achieved  not  alone  from  mere  belief,  nor  from 
oratorical  exhortations,  but  by  the  application  in  business,  social  and 
national  life  of  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

A  male  chorus  sang  the  hymn,  "I'll  Go  Where  You  Want  Me  to 
Go,  dear  Lord." 

The  hymn,  "High  on  the  Mountain  Top,"  was  sung  by  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  and  the  congregation. 


At  the  conclusion  of  the  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast,  at  the  request 
of  President  Heber  J.  Grant  the  congregation  arose  and  joined  with 
the  Choir  in  singing  two  verses  of  the  hymn,  "God  Moves  in  a  Mysterious 
Way." 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

There  have  been  counted  inside  the  Tabernacle  today  11,213  people. 
In  addition,  there  are  1,800  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  and  3,000  on  the 
grounds — a  grand  total  of  16,013. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  am  indeed  blessed  with  you  in  the  oppor- 
tunity to  be  at  this  great  Conference  and  at  these  wonderful  services  this 
morning.  I  glory  with  you  in  the  ringing,  honest  testimony  of  President 
Grant.  I  rejoice  with  you  in  the  wonderful  message  of  President  McKay, 
embodying  in  it  those  principles  which  would  bring  into  the  world,  if 
practiced,  peace  and  joy  unexpressible. 

I  again  rejoice  with  you  in  the  great  work  of  this  choir  of  ours 
and  of  our  other  musical  organizations,  the  Singing  Mothers,  the  Nebo 
Stake  Choir  who  entertained  and  edified  us  yesterday,  and  the  male 
chorus.  I  am  sure  I  express  your  gratitude  as  well  as  my  own  and 
that  of  the  Authorities  when  I  thank  Brother  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  for 
his  untiring  efforts  and  Brother  Frank  W.  Asper  and  also,  and  perhaps 
especially,  Brother  Richard  L.  Evans.  Sunday  after  Sunday,  year  in 
and  year  out,  he  prepares  what  is  called  the  "continuity"  to  these  broad- 
casts.   His  versatility  arouses  my  admiration  and  my  gratitude. 

AN  OUTSTANDING  SCOUT  LEADER 

I  would  like  to  say  a  word  about  another  man  whom  Brother  Grant 
has  mentioned  and  whom  I  think  we  do  not  fully  appreciate.  I  am 
thinking  of  Brother  Oscar  A.  Kirkham.  Sometimes  I  wonder  if  he 
does  not  all  too  much  indicate  the  truthfulness  of  that  old  saying,  "A 
prophet  is  not  without  honor  save  in  his  own  country."  I  do  not  know 
how  Brother  Oscar  Kirkham  stands  with  the  superior  officers  of  the 
Boy  Scout  Movement,  but  I  suppose  he  stands  well.  I  do  know  how  he 
stands  with  the  Boy  Scouts  of  America.  I  saw  him  recently  at  the 
Jamboree  in  Washington.  After  the  officers  of  the  organization  had 
attempted  in  vain  to  bring  to  silence  and  order  25,000  boys  assembled 
there  under  the  shadow  of  the  great  Washington  Monument,  I  saw 
Brother  Kirkham  go  forward  on  the  platform,  raise  his  hands,  and  bring 
silence  to  those  25,000  boys  in  less  than  half  a  minute.  His  influence  for 
good  in  this  world  and  in  the  Boy  Scout  Movement  cannot  be  overesti- 
mated and  I  honor  him  and  respect  him  for  the  work  which  he  is  doing. 

TRIBUTE  TO  CHOIR 

This  choir  of  ours,  I  think,  is  the  greatest  missionary  unit  which  we 
have.  Wherever  I  go,  on  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic,  I  hear  praiseworthy 
reference  to  their  efforts.  I  am  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  them.  It  is 
rather  an  interesting  fact  to  me  that  on  this  block  should  be  the  two  great 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  105 


missionary  units  of  the  Church.  I  am  thinking  of  the  choir  and  its  work 
and  I  am  thinking  of  the  work  of  Brother  Joseph  S.  Peery  in  the  Temple 
Block  Mission.  We  are  planning  and  hoping  to  intensify  the  work  of 
hoth  of  these  agencies.  After  listening  to  this  congregation  sing  this 
morning,  I  think  I  am  entitled  to  say  that  also  the  body  of  this  Church 
assembled  in  these  Conferences  is  a  center  from  which  radiates  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  and  the  Spirit  of  righteousness.  No  base  community  or 
people  could,  sing  as  you  sing.  Your  songs  are  filled  with  a  feeling  of 
righteousness.  They  come,  do  these  songs,  from  a  God-fearing,  faithful 
people.  God  grant  that  always  shall  we  be  able  to  sing  the  songs  of 
Zion  and  radiate  the  spirit  which  has  come  from  this  great  audience 
this  morning. 

Along  with  Brother  Grant,  I  had  the  pleasure  of  attending  some  of 
the  meetings  of  the  Saints  in  foreign  lands.  Sister  Clark  and  I  made 
some  tour  of  Europe.  We  come  back  to  you,  I  am  glad  to  say,  enriched 
in  our  spirit  and  increased  in  our  knowledge.  No  one  can  appraise  the 
beneficial  work  which  President  Grant  did  in  Europe.  I  am  happy  to 
add  my  own  feeling  to  the  expressions  which  he  gave  voice  to  yesterday — 
that  too  long  have  we  remained  somewhat  aloof  from  those  organizations 
of  ours  on  the  other  side  of  the  water  and  in  the  islands  of  the  sea.  I 
rejoice  in  his  determination  that  from  now  on  we  shall  bring  them  nearer 
to  us  and  shall  strive  for  a  fuller  realization  of  the  fact  that  they  are 
part  and  parcel  of  us. 

SIMPLICITY  OF  WORSHIP 

I  return  to  you  filled  with  gratitude  for  many,  many  things.  I  am 
grateful  for  the  fact  that  our  services  are  simple  and  in  the  line  of  the 
services  which  the  Savior  himself  inaugurated  when  he  was  on  the  earth. 
I  rejoice  beyond  my  powers  of  expression  that  our  worship  is  not  one  of 
great  magnificence.  I  rejoice  that  our  Church  calls  upon  the  individuals 
of  its  membership  to  carry  on  all  of  its  activities — that  there  is  nothing 
which  is  withheld  from  him  or  from  her  who  is  righteous. 

I  rejoice  in  the  fact  that  our  buildings  are  simple  and  that  we  come 
into  them  for  the  purpose  of  worship  and  not  for  the  purpose  of  admira- 
tion. I  hope  I  shall  not  be  misunderstood,  nor  that  I  shall  be  thought 
to  lack  charity  or  respect  for  others,  but  I  hope  the  time  will  never 
come  when  we  shall  have  a  St.  Peter's  or  a  St.  Paul's  edifice  connected 
with  this  Church.  They  would  lead  us  away  from  the  simplicity  which 
keeps  us  humble. 

A  LIVING  FAITH 

Above  all,  I  am  grateful  for  the  simplicity  of  our  faith.  We  do 
not  believe  in,  nor  live  in,  a  morgue  or  graveyard  of  Christian  principles 
which  have  supposedly  been  tried  and  found  wanting,  nor  of  blasted 
hopes.  On  the  contrary,  we  have  a  living  faith ;  a  faith  that  guides  us 
day  by  day  and  hour  by  hour;  a  faith  that  will  lead  us,  if  lived,  back 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


into  the  presence  of  our  Heavenly  Father;  a  faith  that,  lived  here,  will 
bring  us  a  joy  and  a  contentment  that  is  beyond  the  power  of  any  human 
pen  or  tongue  to  describe. 

GRATEFUL  FOR  OUR  COUNTRY 

I  am  grateful,  also,  as  I  return  to  this  country,  for  our  country  itself. 
I  am  grateful  for  its  territorial  aloofness  from  the  rest  of  the  world. 
Even  with  the  most  modern,  destructive  weapons  of  war,  we  are  almost 
immune.  I  am  grateful  for  our  political  international  aloofness  and  I 
pray  our  Heavenly  Father  that  we  shall  never  lose  the  security  which 
comes  from  minding  our  own  business  and  remaining  aloof  from  the 
quarrels  and  the  pettiness  of  the  politics  of  the  world. 

I  am  grateful  for  our  economic  sufficiency — that  we  can,  within  our 
own  borders,  produce  all  that  we  need  for  our  daily  lives,  and  the  most 
of  what  we  need  for  our  luxury.  The  need  of  other  great  powers  for 
this  sufficiency  threatens  to  bring  sometime  in  the  future  another  devas- 
tating struggle. 

I  am  grateful  to  my  Heavenly  Father  for  our  free  institutions,  for 
the  liberty  which  we  have,  the  freedom  of  the  press,  the  freedom  of 
religion,  freedom  to  do  as  we  wish  within  the  law.  I  am  grateful  that 
the  great  principle  behind  our  system  of  government  is  that  we  may 
do  anything  which  the  law  does  not  forbid.  There  are  other  systems 
in  the  world  in  which  the  individual  may  do  that  only  which  the  law 
permits,  and  between  those  two  great  principles  lies  the  difference  be- 
tween freedom  and  slavery.  I  am  grateful  for  this,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  far  beyond  my  power  to  tell. 

SECURITY  PROGRAM  IS  SUCCESSFUL 

I  want  to  say  a  word  about  our  Security  Program.  I  want  to  say 
to  you  brothers  and  sisters  that  the  Security  Program  is  highly  successful. 
Bishop  Cannon  has  furnished  figures  to  show  that  during  the  first  six 
months  of  this  year  almost  25,000  Latter-day  Saints  were  helped  directly 
or  through  work  and  there  is  no  letting  up.  There  are  still  a  few  who 
must  be  taken  care  of,  off  the  government  relief.  If  government  projects 
shall  be  abandoned,  there  will  be  more.  But  if  we  shall  do  in  the  future 
as  we  have  in  the  past  we  shall  meet  the  task  that  lies  ahead. 

Over  and  over  again  the  last  four  and  one-half  years  I  have  told 
you  what  I  firmly  believe — that  we,  if  we  put  into  practice  the  principles 
of  our  religion  and  if  we  utilize  the  organization  which  the  Lord  has 
provided  us  for  taking  care  of  our  own,  we  should  become  an  ensign 
and  an  example,  a  city  upon  a  hill  pointing  the  way  to  the  rest  of  the 
world.  If  you  read  your  papers  and  your  magazines,  you  know  that 
this  has  come  to  pass  and  people  now  are  asking — they  ask  me  on  all 
sides :  What  is  it  in  your  organizations  that  brings  you  the  ability  to 
do  these  things  ?  That,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  brings  up  the  next  great 
point  which  we  wish  the  world  to  look  at. 

What  is  the  source  of  this  unifying  power  that  motivates  this  great 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


107 


people  ?  And  when  that  question  is  answered,  it  will  be  understood  and 
known  that  it  is  the  power  of  the  Lord  and  the  power  of  the  Priesthood 
among  this  people  that-  does  draw  them  together ;  that  does  unite  them 
as  a  single  man.  I  want  to  say  here  that  I  am  very  grateful  to  all  who 
have  taken  part  in  carrying  on  this  security  program — the  men  and  the 
women  who  have  worked  in  the  Relief  Society,  and  all  the  auxiliary 
agencies,  the  Priesthood,  and  particularly  those  men  o'f  the  central  com- 
mittee who  so  willingly  give  their  time,  without  compensation,  to  the 
supervision  of  this  great  and  vital  undertaking.  We  thank  you  all  for 
your  cooperation  and  for  your  support.  Without  it  nothing  at  all  could 
have  been  done. 

GIVES  ADMONITION 

May  I  add  again  an  admonition :  Live  within  your  means.  Get  out 
of  debt.  Keep  out  of  debt.  Lay  by  for  a  rainy  day  which  has  always 
come  and  will  come  again.  Practice  and  increase  your  habits  of  thrift, 
industry,  economy,  frugality.  Remember  that  the  parable  of  the  ten 
virgins,  the  five  that  were  wise  and  the  five  that  were  foolish,  can  be 
just  as  applicable  to  matters  of  the  temporal  world  as  those  of  the  spiritual. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  our  revelations  are  filled,  revelations  ancient 
and  modern,  with  the  statement  that  this  work  of  the  Lord  is  to  roll 
forth  as  the  stone  cut  out  of  the  mountain  without  hands,  and  fill  the 
whole  earth.  This  Gospel  of  ours,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  not  merely 
for  us.  It  is,  said  the  Lord,  in  his  time  for  every  creature  in  the  world. 
The  Lord  has  given  to  us  the  responsibility  of  trying  to  bring  home 
to  humanity  the  truths  of  this  Gospel,  not  by  exhortation  alone,  because 
exhortation  has  failed  and  that  is  why  men  tell  you  that  the  principles 
of  Christianity  are  dead.  But  we  are  to  bring  this  home  to  humanity 
by  living  it.  This  great  responsibility  the  Lord  has  placed  primarily  upon 
us  in  America.  But  this  is  not  an  American  Church.  This  is  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  its  destiny  as  well  as  its  mission 
is  to  fill  the  earth  and  to  bring  home  to  every  man,  woman  and  child  in 
the  world  the  truths  of  this  Gospel  of  which  I  have  spoken. 

OUR  MISSION 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  that  requires  not  only  devotion  to  duty  of 
the  very  highest  character  but  it  requires  sacrifice.  There  is  no  good 
comes  into  the  world,  there  is  no  good  comes  to  the  individual  which  in 
some  way  does  not  demand  a  sacrifice.  Righteousness  must  pay  the 
price. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us.  May  he  bring  into  our  hearts  an  understand- 
ing of  the  mission  of  the  Church  and  beyond  that  of  the  mission  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  May  he  particularly  bring  into  our  hearts  an 
understanding  of  our  own  responsibilities  and  duties,  because  if  we  fail 
to  meet  them,  not  only  shall  we  ourselves  suffer  and  fail  to  get  the 
blessings  that  come  from  obedience,  but  someone  in  the  world  somewhere 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


will  hold  against  us  the  charge  that  we  did  not  meet  our  duty  and  bring  to 
him  the  principles  which  we  believe. 

And  so  may  God  be  with  us  at  all  times  and  help  us  in  all  ways 
that  we  may  do  his  will ;  that  we  may  spread  the  Gospel ;  that  we  may  point 
to  all  humanity  the  way  to  temporal  salvation,  not  only,  as  we  are  trying 
to  do  now,  but  spiritual  salvation  and  exaltation  also,  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  have  been  invited  to  attend  conferences  of  the  foreign-speaking 
peoples.  I  want  the  Dutch  people  to  know  that  I  am  Dutch  when  I  go 
far  enough  back  on  my  mother's  side,  so  I  am  interested  in  the  Dutch 
people.  There  are  some  Scandinavians  in  my  family  through  marriage, 
so  I  am  interested  in  the  Scandinavians.  The  German  people  have 
given  to  us  some  of  our  most  stalwart  and  outstanding  people,  and  I 
am  deeply  interested  in  them;  but  I  beg  these  dear  friends  of  mine  to 
please  remember  that  in  a  little  more  than  a  month  I  will  be  81  years 
of  age,  and  that  when  a  man  my  age  attends  each  of  these  General 
Conference  sessions  he  is  doing  all  that  he  should.  You  are  all  praying 
for  the  Lord  to  prolong  my  life.  Please  do  not  ask  me  to  do  things  that 
will  shorten  it. 

"Doxology"  was  sung  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congregation. 
Elder  Arnold  D.  Miller,  President  of  the  North  Davis  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  Sunday  after- 
noon, October  3,  at  2  o'clock. 

Once  more,  the  great  Tabernacle  was  filled  to  capacity  with  people, 
and  again  throngs  of  people  congregated  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  on 
the  Tabernacle  grounds  to  listen  to  the  'services  as  they  were  broadcast 
from  the  Tabernacle. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "Send  Forth  Thy  Light," 
after  which  the  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Samuel  G.  Dye, 
President  of  the  Ogden  Stake. 

An  anthem,  "Beautiful  Savior,"  was  sung  by  the  Choir,  Jessie 
Evans,  soloist. 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON  109 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

As  I  listened  to  the  broadcast  this  morning  and  looked  out  upon 
this  great  congregation  of  people,  I  was  nearly  swept  off  my  feet;  I 
think  I  would  have  been  had  I  been  standing.  It  was  a  wonderful 
meeting. 

This  is  also  a  great  gathering  of  Latter-day  Saints,  filling  the  entire 
Tabernacle,  a  congregation  that  is  eager  for  the  word  of  the  Lord  and 
are  here  now  to  wait  upon  him. 

A  REMARKABLE  BOOK 

I  have  in  my  hand  a  most  remarkable  book.  There  is  nothing 
exactly  like  it  in  all  the  great  libraries  of  the  world.  This  book  is  dis- 
tinctive, it  is  different  from  any  other  record  under  the  heavens.  In 
fact,  it  contains  one  hundred  and  thirty-five  revelations  given  to  Joseph 
Smith  the  Prophet  for  the  instruction  of  the  members  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  given  by  the  Master  himself. 

And  yet  in  our  day  and  time  it  is  declared  by  Christians  generally 
that  the  voice  of  revelation  has  ceased  being  heard  in  the  land.  This 
book  is  not  to  be  handled  with  the  spirit  of  indifference.  It  justifies 
the  deepest  consideration  and  study.  Three  or  four  or  five  years  of 
intense  application  in  the  study  of  this  book,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
would  be  the  equivalent  to  a  university  education  in  the  higher  brackets. 

We  cannot  speak  lightly  of  a  book  with  such  solemn  and  important 
instructions  as  are  given  in  this  volume  which  covers  every  phase  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  In  a  matter  so  extremely  important,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  would  we  not  be  justified  in  pausing  for  a  few  moments  to 
consider  and  reflect  upon  some  of  these  great  commandments  of  the 
Lord. 

REVELATION  ON  THE  THREE  GLORIES 

I  refer  you  now  to  Section  76.  In  this  section  the  kingdoms  of 
glory  of  the  other  world  are  set  forth  in  great  force  and  beauty.  I  would 
like  to  read  to  you  the  introduction  to  this  particular  revelation  given  by 
the  Lord: 

Hear,  O  ye  heavens,  and  give  ear,  O  earth,  and  rejoice  ye  inhabitants 
thereof,  for  the  Lord  is  God,  and  beside  him  there  is  no  Savior. 

Great  is  his  wisdom,  marvelous  are  his  ways,  and  the  extent  of  his 
doings  none  can  find  out 

His  purposes  fail  not,  neither  are  there  any  who  can  stay  his  hand. 

From  eternity  to  eternity  he  is  the  same,  and  his  years  never  fail. 

For  thus  saith  the  Lord — I,  the  Lord,  am  merciful  and  gracious  unto 
those  who  fear  me,  and  delig-ht  to  honor  those  who  serve  me  in  righteous- 
ness and  in  truth  unto  the  end. 

Great  shall  be  their  reward  and  eternal  shall  be  their  glory. 

And  to  them  will  I  reveal  all  mysteries,  yea,  all  the  hidden  mysteries 
of  my  kingdom  from  days  of  old,  and  for  ages  to  come,  will  I  make  known 
unto  them  the  good  pleasure  of  my  will  concerning  all  things  pertaining 
to  my  kingdom. 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Yea,  even  the  wonders  of  eternity  shall  they  know,  and  things  to 
come  will  I  show  them,  even  the  things  of  many  generations. 

And  their  wisdom  shall  be  great,  and  their  understanding  reach  to 
heaven;  and  before  them  the  wisdom  of  the  wise  shall  perish,  and  the 
understanding  of  the  prudent  shall  come  to  naught. 

For  by  my  Spirit  will  I  enlighten  them,  and  by  my  power  will  I  make 
known  unto  them  the  secrets  of  my  will — yea,  even  those  things  which 
eye  has  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard,  nor  yet  entered  into  the  heart  of  man. 

Are  not  these  words,  being  the  preface  to  a  revelation,  great  and 
mighty  words  ?  The  Lord  describes  himself  and  his  power  and  greatness 
and  ability  to  bless  and  save  in  these  few  introductory  lines. 

Now,  this  revelation  sets  forth  three  great  kingdoms  of  glory,  and 
the  people  in  the  Church,  yes,  and  those  of  the  world  at  large  may 
choose  therefrom  their  destiny  for  the  hereafter.  And,  should  one 
step  forth  the  following  question  might  consistently  be  put  to  him: 
"What  destiny  do  you  aspire  to  ?"  The  answer  might  be,  "Well,  I  would 
like  a  Celestial  glory,  which  I  understand  is  the  highest  and  best."  The 
sun,  moon  and  stars  are  pointed  to  in  the  revelation  as  being  typical  of 
the  three  kingdoms  of  glory,  and  as  the  sun  differs  from  the  moon  in 
brightness  so  is  the  Celestial  kingdom  of  glory ;  and  as  the  moon  differs 
from  the  stars  in  brightness  so  is  the  Terrestrial  glory,  and  as  the  stars 
differ  one  from  another  in  brightness  so  it  is  in  the  Telestial  kingdom 
of  glory.  If  you  can  abide  the  law  of  the  Celestial  kingdom,  why,  then 
you  can  abide  a  Celestial  glory  and  that  glory  will  be  given  you.  Other- 
wise, you  must  look  for  some  other  kingdom  of  glory  such  as  the 
Terrestrial  or  Telestial,  but  remember  that  if  your  worthiness  should 
entitle  you  to  a  Telestial  kingdom  only  it  is  due  to  the  fact  that  you  are 
able  to  abide  the  law  of  the  Telestial  kingdom. 

Permit  me  to  read  a  few  words  from  this  section  to  show  what 
is  required  of  those  who  will  be  saved  in  the  Celestial  kingdom  of  God : 

And  again  we  bear  record — for  we  saw  and  heard,  and  this  is  the 
testimony  of  the  gospel  of  Christ  concerning  them  who  shall  come  forth 
in  the  resurrection  of  the  just— 

They  are  they  who  received  the  testimony  of  Jesus,  and  believed 
on  his  name  and  were  baptized  after  the  manner  of  his  burial,  being  buried 
in  the  water  in  his  name,  and  this  according  to  the  commandment  which 
he  has  given— 

That  by  keeping  the  commandments  they  might  be  washed  and  cleansed 
from  all  their  sins,  and  receive  the  Holy  Spirit  by  the  laying  on  of  the 
hands  of  him  who  is  ordained  and  sealed  unto  this  power; 

And  who  overcome  by  faith,  and  are  sealed  by  the  Holy  Spirit  of 
promise,  which  the  Father  sheds  forth  upon  all  those  who  are  just  and 
true. 

They  are  they  who  are  the  church  of  the  Firstborn. 

They  are  they  into  whose  hands  the  Father  has  given  all  things — 

They  are  they  who  are  priests  and  kings,  who  have  received  of  his 
fulness,  and  of  his  glory; 

And  are  priests  of  the  Most  High,  after  the  order  of  Melchizedek, 
which  was  after  the  order  of  Enoch,  which  was  after  the  order  of  the 
Only  Begotten  Son. 

Wherefore,  as  it  is  written,  they  are  gods,  even  the  sons  of  God. 

Wherefore,  all  things  are  theirs,  whether  life  or  death,  or  things 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON  111 


present,  or  things  to  come,  all  are  theirs  and  they  are  Christ's,  and  Christ 
is  God's. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  you  see  what  is  before  you ;  you  see 
what  it  will  require  upon  your  part  to  obtain  the  Celestial  glory.  If 
you  cannot  live  up  to  the  requirements  of  this  law  that  governs  in  the 
Celestial  kingdom,  though  you  may  have  membership  in  the  Church, 
you  cannot  abide  that  glory.  That  is  the  edict.  The  Lord  tells  us  that  in 
Section  88. 

Section  76  is  a  great  revelation.  We  can  sit  down  by  ourselves 
and  determine  just  which  glory  will  satisfy  us  and  how  we  can  obtain 
it,  and  we  are  left  without  excuse.  This  great  revelation  appears  in  the 
book,  and  it  is  worthy  of  study  and  deep  reflection.  Each  one  must 
determine  whether  his  life  squares  with  the  conditions;  and  this  is  only 
one  of  the  many  great  revelations  contained  in  this  book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants. 

REVELATION  ON  PRIESTHOOD 

In  Section  84,  a  revelation  on  Priesthood,  we  find  the  duties  that 
go  with  the  Priesthood,  the  duties  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  the 
duties  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 
set  forth  in  clearness.  It  defines  the  duties  of  Patriarch,  High  Priest, 
Seventy,  Elder,  Bishop,  Priest,  Teacher  and  Deacon.  The  whole  field 
of  official  standing  in  the  Church  comes  within  the  purview  of  this 
important  section. 

We  had  a  great  body  of  Priesthood  here  last  night.  This  building 
was  filled  to  its  utmost  capacity.  Some  were  standing.  It  is  the  duty 
of  the  Priesthood  of  the  Church  to  study  these  great  revelations,  par- 
ticularly Section  84.  Are  you  familiar  with  it?  Have  you  a  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  within  reach?  Not  in  the  library  case,  but  on  the  table 
where  you  can  get  at  it  handily?  You  ought  to  give  time  to  this  matter 
and  to  the  importance  of  the  Priesthood,  the  necessity  of  magnifying  it, 
because  it  represents  divine  authority,  and  brethren,  we  cannot  trifle 
with  divine  authority.  When  the  Lord  speaks  we  must  take  notice, 
and  when  he  commands  we  must  obey,  because  it  is  the  Lord  who  is 
the  law-giver,  and  he  who  becomes  a  law  unto  himself,  if  he  does  not 
repent,  is  lost. 

REVELATION  ON  THE  ETERNITY  OF  THE  MARRIAGE  COVENANT 

And  then  there  is  Section  132 — a  revelation  upon  marriage.  It 
speaks  of  the  eternity  of  the  marriage  covenant.  I  wonder  if  our  young 
people  who  are  thinking  of  marriage  are  thinking  about  that  feature  of 
it  ?  Here  is  an  opportunity  for  the  young  people  to  use  great  discrimina- 
tion. Marriage  should  be  approached  in  a  prayerful  spirit.  We  should 
pause  and  consider  ■  this  matter.  Sometimes  it  happens  that  a  couple 
will  pass  the  Temple  door  and  go  and  get  a  civil  marriage,  and  I  have 
wondered  sometimes  if  such  a  couple  had  weighed  the  matter  fully. 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


There  is  as  much  difference  between  a  Temple  marriage  and  a 
civil  marriage  as  there  is  between  the  sun  and  the  moon.  A  civil  marriage 
is  a  good  marriage  because  it  has  the  authority  of  the  United  States 
government  behind  it.  The  law  protects  it,  and  we  cannot  condemn  it. 
All  we  can  say  about  a  civil  marriage  is  that  it  is  good  as  far  as  it  goes, 
but  it  may  not  go  very  far.  That  is  the  trouble.  It  may  last  a  month, 
it  may  last  six  months,  it  may  last  ten  years,  or  twenty  years,  or  thirty 
years,  or  forty,  or  fifty  years,  which  is  just  a  moment  of  time. 

Now,  there  is  the  Temple  marriage  which  covers  time  and  all 
eternity.  There  is  going  to  be  a  good  deal  of  sorrow,  a  good  deal  of 
anxiety  come  into  the  lives  of  those  who  accept  the  inferior  marriage 
because  there  is  bound  to  be  a  separation  of  loved  ones.  A  civil  marriage 
applies  only  to  this  life  and  holds  good  until  death  parts  them.  If  the 
husband  dies,  the  bond  is  broken.  If  the  wife  dies,  the  bond  is  broken ; 
and  if  both  die  the  bond  is  broken.  It  does  not  reach  beyond  this  life. 
That  is  a  matter  that  should  have  our  deepest  consideration,  because 
after  all,  the  rewards  that  come  from  marriage  are  governed  by  law 
like  other  things,  and  we  are  living  under  the  operation  of  law  in  all 
things. 

REVELATION  ON  TITHING 

There  is  the  law  of  finance,  the  divine  law  of  finance  given  to  the 
Church.  Somebody  might  say :  "I  have  not  seen  that  law,  Brother  Claw- 
son.  I  have  not  read  very  much  of  the  book  of  Covenants,  but  I  have 
not  seen  that  law,  or  any  law  entitled  the  law  of  finance." 

Well,  it  may  not  have  that  title.  Nevertheless  the  revelation  on 
tithing  is  the  law  of  finance  in  the  Church  of  Christ.  That  is  the  way 
the  Lord  deals  with  us  in  relation  to  some  financial  things. 

It  is  wonderful,  this  law  of  finance.  When  the  Church  was  in  great 
distress  some  years  ago,  was  upon  the  verge  of  bankruptcy,  the  law  of 
finance  was  put  into  operation  and  stressed  by  the  Authorities,  and  it 
brought  the  Church  out  of  its  difficulties.  It  must  needs  be  that  we 
give  attention  to  this  law  of  finance.  And  there  is  a  reward  that  goes 
with  it  too. 

THE  WORD  OF  WISDOM 

Then  there  is  the  great  law  of  health.  "Well,"  someone  might  say 
"I  have  not  seen  a  revelation  entitled  the  great  law  of  health,  Brother 
Clawson." 

"No,  of  course  you  have  not.  But  you  have  seen  the  revelation  that 
is  entitled  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  haven't  you  ?" 
"Yes." 

"Well,  that  is  the  law  of  health,  given  by  the  Lord  many  years 
ago.  It  is  wonderful  what  it  has  done  for  the  people,  and  it  is  surprising 
that  it  has  not  done  more  for  them,  but  that  is  the  fault  of  the  people 
who  have  failed  to  obey  this  law." 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON  113 


THE  APPEARANCE  OF  THE  SAVIOR  IN  THE  KIRTLAND  TEMPLE 

And  then  there  is  an  account  in  Section  1 10  of  the  great  vision  that 
was  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  in  the 
Kirtland  Temple  at  the  time  of  its  dedication,  when  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  appeared  standing  upon  the  breastwork  of  the  pulpit.  His  ap- 
pearance was  glorious,  but  his  words  were  more  glorious,  and  his  par- 
ticular word  upon  that  occasion  was  grand  and  beautiful.  He  said  to 
them : 

I  am  the  first  and  the  last ;  I  am  he  who  liveth,  I  am  he  who  was 
slain;  I  am  your  advocate  with  the  Father.  Behold,  your  sins  are  forgiven 
you;  you  are  clean  before  me;  therefore  lift  up  your  heads  and  rejoice,  etc. 

Marvelous  were  these  divine  words  of  comfort  and  mercy  given 
to  the  Saints  of  God  by  the  Lord  himself.  They  were  fully  rewarded  for 
the  great  sacrifices  they  had  made  in  building  the  Kirtland  Temple. 

STUDY  OF  STANDARD  WORKS  URGED 

I  must  not  take  any  more  of  your  time.  Brethren  and  sisters,  let 
me  plead  with  you  to  give  more  attention  to  the  standard  works  of  the 
Church.  There  is  so  much  literature  that  comes  into  our  homes,  I  am 
sure,  that  we  can  hardly  reach  the  standard  works  of  the  Church,  yet 
the  standard  works  should  come  first,  and  other  literature  afterwards. 

Of  course,  we  must  keep  track  of  daily  events,  things  that  are  going 
on  in  the  world,  but  when  it  comes  to  reading  books  of  interest  and 
value,  let  us  give  preference  to  the  Church  works  because  they  are  more 
precious  than  any  other  books  in  the  world.  If  they  were  wiped  out 
entirely  and  not  one  standard  Church  book  left,  it  would  be  a  calamity, 
a  great  misfortune  to  the  Church 

God  bless  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  Amea 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  desire  to  express  a  word  of  appreciation  and  thanks  to  and  for 
this  wonderful  choir.    My  faith  and  prayers  are  with  the  members. 

A  PERFECT  ORGANIZATION 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  a  wonderful  or- 
ganization. In  the  year  1829  the  Lord  said  that  a  great  and  marvelous 
work  was  about  to  come  forth  among  the  children  of  men.  That  was 
a  few  months  before  the  organization  of  the  Church.  In  the  branches, 
wards  and  stakes,  all  presided  over  by  properly  appointed  officers,  we 
have  a  perfect  organization  in  theory.  I  wish  I  could  say  that  in  regard 
to  the  practice. 

We  have  a  perfect  order  of  Priesthood,  because  it  is  divine.  It  is 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


not  man-made.  The  Bishop  in  the  ward  holds  the  keys  of  presidency, 
and  the  power  to  direct  and  set  in  order  all  things  within  his  ward. 
Likewise  the  Presidency  of  the  stake  hold  the  keys  of  presidency,  and 
it  is  their  duty  to  set  in  order  and  regulate  all  things  pertaining  to 
the  stake  over  which  they  preside.  The  President  of  the  Church  holds 
the  keys  of  authority  for  the  whole  Church.  He  is  the  mouthpiece 
of  God.  It  is  through  him  that  revelation  comes  for  the  guidance  of 
the  members. 

OUR  DUTY  TO  HONOR  PRIESTHOOD 

The  Priesthood,  being  divine,  should  be  honored.  It  should  be 
honored  by  those  who  hold  it,  and  it  should  be  honored  by  those  who 
are  under  the  jurisdiction  of  it.  When  these  men  holding  this  divine 
authority  speak,  it  is  the  duty  of  the  members  of  the  Church  to  give 
heed  to  their  words  and  counsel.  We  fail  in  our  duty  if  we  do  not 
do  this  thing.  Brother  John  H.  Taylor,  in  his  remarks  on  Friday,  stated 
that  there  were  some  members  of  the  Church  who  said:  "Why  do  the 
Authorities  of  the  Church  keep  admonishing  and  teaching  principles 
to  this  Church  which  they  know  the  members  will  not  follow  ?"  I  may 
not  be  quoting  him  accurately,  but  that  is  the  substance  of  it.  I  want 
to  answer  that  question.  It  is  the  duty  of  the  Authorities  of  the  Church 
to  speak  by  inspiration  and  revelation.  If  the  membership,  or  any  part 
thereof,  should  fail  to  heed  the  warning  or  accept  the  counsel,  the  in- 
struction which  these  men  in  authority  give,  and  especially  the  one  who 
holds  the  keys  of  authority,  still  it  is  the  duty  of  these  men  to  give 
that  instruction,  even  though  they  may  feel  it  will  not  be  followed,  and 
then  the  responsibility  rests  upon  the  shoulders  of  those  who  hear  it, 
and  if  they  refuse  to  receive  it  the  sin  is  upon  their  own  heads,  and  they 
will-  have  to  answer  for  it. 

The  Lord  said :  "Whether  it  be  mine  own  voice  or  the  voice  of 
my  servants,  it  is  the  same."  I  read  in  the  preface  to  this  wonderful 
book  President  Clawson  has  been  telling  us  about: 

The  arm  of  the  Lord  shall  be  revealed,  and  the  day  cometh  that  they 
who  will  not  hear  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  neither  the  voice  of  his  servants, 
neither  give  heed  to  the  words  of  the  prophets  and  apostles,  shall  be  cut 
off  from  among  the  people. 

Those  members  of  this  Church  who  criticise  and  say  we  hear  too 
much  of  this  or  that,  and  thus  confess  their  sins,  should  take  heed  and 
repent,  for  if  they  refuse  to  accept  the  counsels  that  are  given,  then  the 
responsibility  of  that  disobedience  is  theirs,  and  they  will  have  to  answer 
for  it. 

Short  though  my  memory  may  be,  I  can  remember  not  so  very  far 
back,  when  the  President  of  this  Church  gave  counsel  and  advice  and 
pleaded  with  the  membership  of  this  Church  to  do  certain  things,  which 
a  large  percentage  of  them  refused  to  do,  and  I  say  the  Lord  is  not 
pleased  with  the  inhabitants  of  Zion.  He  said  that  once  in  the  early 
days  of  the  Church.    I  think  we  can  truthfully  repeat  it  now. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  1 1 5 


I  believe  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  I  believe  in  the  law  of  tithing 
and  prayer  and  faith,  and  the  keeping  of  the  Sabbath  Day  holy,  so  I 
endorse  all  that  we  have  heard  on  these  questions  during  this  conference. 

SMOKING  IN  PUBLIC  PLACES 

One  year  ago  it  was  my  privilege  to  travel  through  the  Eastern 
States  Mission  with  Elder  Don  B.  Colton,  who  then  presided  in  that 
field.  Our  duties  took  us  to  the  city  of  Boston,  in  Massachusetts,  and 
in  the  afternoon  we  went  into  an  eating  house  for  the  purpose  of  getting 
a  meal,  shortly  before  meeting  should  commence.  It  was  a  clean,  re- 
spectable place.  As  we  sat  down  to  a  table  we  noticed  that  upon  the 
four  sides  of  every  table  was  the  following:  "Please  do  not  smoke  in 
this  room.  The  majority,  including  those  who  smoke,  appreciate  a 
clean  atmosphere  in  which  to  enjoy  their  meals.  Thank  you  for  com- 
plying with  this  request.  Pure  food  and  tobacco  smoke  do  not  mix." 
It  struck  me  that  some  of  these  institutions  that  cater  to  the  public 
here  in  Zion  might  profit  by  that  example. 

I  do  not  go  into  certain  eating  places  for  a  mid-day  meal,  because  I 
do  not  care  to  sit  down  at  a  table,  and  have  some  empty-headed  girl 
at  an  adjoining  table  puff  tobacco  smoke  in  my  face.  That  is  why  I 
am  not  seen  in  such  places.  I  think  that  the  semi-respectable  places — 
I  say  semi-respectable,  because  if  tobacco  using  is  permitted  in  an 
eating  house  it  is  only  semi-respectable — if  they  could  adopt  this  notice 
in  the  eating  houses  that  I  speak  of,  I  think  it  would  be  an  excellent 
thing.  This  place  in  Boston  was  crowded.  It  did  not  seem  to  hurt 
their  business.  I  do  not  think  anybody  stayed  away  because  they  were 
offended ;  the  notice  was  not  offensive.  Why  can  it  not  be  adopted  here? 

I  want  to  read  to  you  a  statement  that  was  made  from  this  very 
stand  by  the  President  of  the  Church  at  the  Conference  in  October, 
1913.  Now,  this  is  a  pretty  strong  statement.  He  was  the  mouthpiece 
of  God.  He  spoke  by  inspiration,  and  it  is  good  counsel,  it  seems  to 
me,  today.    He  said: 

President  George  Q.  Cannon  often  said  to  me  and  to  others  that  he 
would  rather  be  shut  up  with  a  skunk  than  to  be  shut  up  in  a  smoking 
car  with  smokers. 

I  will  pause  to  say  that  in  the  day  when  this  was  said  they  had 
smoking  cars.  Now  all  cars,  practically,  are  smoking  cars,  so  are  all 
buses  and  everything  else.    To  continue  the  quotation : 

What  right  has  a  man  to  befoul  with  his  nauseous  breath  the  air 
that  I  breathe?  What  right  have  I  to  make  noxious  the  air  that  you 
breathe.  I  have  no  right  to  do  it,  and  you  have  a  right  to  protest  against 
my  doing  it,  and  to  show  those  who  are  in  the  habit  of  doing  these  things 
your  contempt  for  their  practices,  if  you  have  any  respect  for  them.  You 
should  show,  at  least,  your  contempt  for  that  which  they  do  foolishly,  for 
the  practice  is  wrong,  pernicious,  and  they  are  unmindful  of  the  rights 
of  others.  I  have  thought  seriously  that  a  boy  or  man  who  has  become 
addicted  to  the  use  of  tobacco  in  any  form,  to  the  extent  that  he  is  unable 
to  resist  his  appetite  for  it,  or  who  has  practiced  it  until  he  is  unable  to 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


resist  or  overcome  it,  is  a  man  who  is  so  mentally  weakened,  so  morally 
degraded  that  he  is  not  competent  to  perform,  and  would  not  be  worthy 
to  be  entrusted  with  any  responsible  duty.  Why?  Because  a  man  who 
has  become  so  weak-minded,  and  irresolute  that  he  cannot  overcome  the 
temptation  to  do  wrong,  or  resist  the  power  of  an  acquired,  vicious 
appetite  for  poison,  how  can  he  be  trusted  ?  It  is  a  weakness,  a  degradation 
that  sinks  far  below  the  ordinary  weakness  of  mankind,  and  therefore, 
the  person  who  is  so  enslaved  to  vitiated  appetites  for  poisons,  hurtful 
things,  that  he  cannot  overcome  them,  being  a  slave  to  a  pernicious  habit, 
a  degrading  practice,  that  he  cannot  rise  above  it,  how  dare  you  trust 
him?  How  can  you  entrust  to  one  whose  mind  is  become  so  weakened, 
so  vitiated  and  so  degraded,  that  he  is  not  his  own  master,  but  an 
irresolute  slave  to  unholy  passion,  any  trust  that  requires  honor,  strength 
of  manhood,  determination  and  will-power  to  resist  evil  and  temptation 
to  do  wrong  ?  You  can't  do  it !  You  can't  trust  a  man  who  has  not  the 
power  of  will  to  say  "No"  to  temptation  to  do  evil,  or  to  that  which 
entices  to  evil.  He  is  only  worthy  of  condemnation,  and  you  cannot  safely 
trust  him,  and  you  ought  not  to  trust  him. 

charles  c.  Goodwin's  editorial 

A  few  days  following  the  Conference  where  this  was  said,  Mr. 
Charles  C.  Goodwin,  who  for  many  years  was  a  very  bitter  opponent 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  but  a  very  keen  editorial  writer,  and  who 
performed  that  service  for  many  years  on  a  morning  paper  in  this  city, 
took  up  the  refrain  of  President  Smith's  remarks,  and  I  want  to  read 
to  you  what  he  had  to  say,  because  he  confessed  that  he  was  guilty  of  the 
habit : 

In  a  broad  and  general  way  I  am  for  the  anti-tobacco  doctrine 
promulgated  by  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  at  the  opening  of  the  October 
conference.  And  I  am  unprejudiced,  because  I  use  the  weed.  One  can 
be  pretty  patient  with  the  various  weaknesses  of  human  nature,  but  here 
is  a  habit  which  God  never  planted  in  any  human  being.  It  is  unnatural 
for  a  man  to  chew  or  smoke  tobacco. 

No  habit  is  acquired  at  such  expense  of  pain  and  discomfort,  or 
against  so  positive  and  emphatic  an  opposition  of  nature.  The  man  who 
smokes  can  remember  when  he  began  self-administration  of  nicotine 
poison,  and  he  can  remember  no  other  convulsion  of  his  frame  which 
equalled  that  following  his  first  cigar.  The  deadly  sickness,  the  battle 
of  normally  clean  tissues  against  the  rank  enmity  of  the  weed,  whether 
smoked  or  chewed,  surpasses  any  other  illness  known  to  man.  Sea- 
sickness is  a  horror,  but  it  is  a  dream  of  Paradise  and  the  Peri  as 
compared  with  nicotine  poison  for  the  beginner.  Ptomaine  poison  hurts, 
but  it  is  colic  compared  to  convulsions.  There  is  no  protest  of  the 
healthy  body  possibly  approaching  the  physical  warning  against  tobacco. 
And  if  the  user  of  tobacco — the  confirmed  slave  today — would  supply  to 
any  useful  endeavor  the  resolution,  the  persistence,  the  indifference  to 
suffering,  the  courage,  the  power  of  will,  the  sacrifice  of  comfort,  which 
he  has  devoted  to  acquiring  the  tobacco  habit,  he  would  have  won — 
though  the  winning  meant  fame  or  fortune,  love  or  leisure! 

President  Smith  is  right.  Smoking  is  foolish.  There  is  not  one  word 
to  be  said  in  sanity  to  defend  it.  Chewing  tobacco  is  beyond  all  expression 
filthy.  It  is  vile,  vicious,  self-contaminating,  offensive  to  companions, 
and  repulsive  to  the  community  at  large. 

And  while  neither  he  nor  I  will  make  an  end  of  the  custom,  it  is  fair 
to  say  he  told  the  truth,  and  it  is  a  thing  for  patriotic  men  to  applaud, 
because  his  word  in  that  meeting  will  save  some  man  from  the  one  habit 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  1 17 


which  has  nothing  to  defend  it  and  every  consideration  of  cleanliness 
to  oppose. 

Now,  there  is  the  statement  of  a  man  who  has  had  the  unsavory 
experience. 

CLOSING  INSTRUCTION 

Brethren,  sisters,  keep  your  bodies  clean.  They  are  eternal,  and  the 
Lord  expects  us  to  keep  them  clean  if  we  shall  enter  into  eternal  life, 
which  is  God's  life,  to  be  like  him.  Hearken  to  the  counsels  of  the 
Priesthood.  Keep  the  commandments  of  God.  Follow  the  instruction 
President  Clawson  has  given ;  read  these  revelations  and  make  yourselves 
familiar  with  them,  that  you  may  not  fail  nor  be  led  astray  by  the  teach- 
ings of  the  world  and  the  philosophies  of  men. 

So  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

In  the  first  chapter  of  the  first  book  of  Moses,  which  is  commonly 
known  to  us  as  the  Book  of  Genesis,  we  will  find — what  I  have  always 
considered  it  to  be — an  account  of  the  spiritual  organization  of  the 
universe. 

The  next  chapter,  the  second,  deals  with  the  natural  creation  after, 
however,  first  confirming  the  spiritual  creation.  It  reads  like  this : 

These  are  the  generations  of  the  heavens  and  of  the  earth  when  they 
were  created,  in  the  day  that  the  Lord  God  made  the  earth  and  the  heavens, 

And  every  plant  of  the  field  before  it  was  in  the  earth,  and  every  herb 
of  the  field  before  it  grew.  (Genesis  2:4,  5) 

This  narrative  is  also  given  to  us  in  the  writings  of  Moses  as 
revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  In  these  writings  Moses,  who 
is  also  the  writer  of  Genesis  which  is  known  as  the  First  Book  of  Moses, 
gives  us  a  more  elaborate  account,  or  I  might  say  a  fuller  rendition  of 
the  same  narrative.  Although  the  account  in  Genesis  clearly  indicates 
both  the  spiritual  and  natural  creation  I  will  quote  the  passages  from  the 
Pearl  of  Great  Price  in  which  the  narrative  is  given  even  in  greater 
clarity  and  more  in  detail : 

And  now,  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  these  are  the  generations  of  the 
heaven  and  of  the  earth,  when  they  were  created,  in  the  day  that  I,  the 
Lord  God,  made  the  heaven  and  the  earth ; 

And  every  plant  of  the  field  before  it  was  in  the  earth,  and  every  herb 
of  the  field  before  it  grew.  For  I,  the  Lord  God,  created  all  things,  of 
which  I  have  spoken,  spiritually,  before  they  were  naturally  upon  the  face 
of  the  earth.  For  I,  the  Lord  God,  had  not  caused  it  to  rain  upon  the  face 
of  the  earth.  And  I,  the  Lord  God,  had  created  all  the  children  of  men ; 
and  not  yet  a  man  to  till  the  ground ;  for  in  heaven  created  I  them ;  and 
there  was  not  yet  flesh  upon  the  earth,  neither  in  the  water,  neither  in 
the  air.  (Moses  3:4,  5) 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


My  purpose  in  calling  your  attention  to  these  paragraphs  is  to  show 
the  dual  nature  of  all  created  things;  that  we  lived  in  another  world 
before  this  world  was  made,  as  the  children  of  God,  the  spirit  children 
of  God. 

Let  us  visualize,  if  we  can,  the  scenes  in  heaven  in  that  first  estate 
of  man,  before  the  world  was  when  the  Lord  had  looked  out  upon  this 
great  expanse,  and  darkness  covered  the  face  of  the  deep;  and  the  Spirit 
of  God  moved  upon  the  face  of  the  waters,  and  God  said,  "Let  there 
be  light,"  and  there  was  light,  and  the  universe  was  ablaze  with  it. — 
First,  the  creation  spiritual,  which  of  necessity  must  precede  the  natural 
creation. 

The  second  chapter  then  goes  on  to  relate  this  remarkable  phase 
of  our  life,  the  second  estate,  as  the  spirit  enters  into  the  body. 

And  the  Lord  God  formed  man  of  the  dust  of  the  ground,  and 
breathed  into  his  nostrils  the  breath  of  life ;  and  man  became  a  living 
soul.  (Gen.  2:7) 

How  marvelous  that  is !  See  how  many  things  are  explained  in  these 
scriptures,  how  many  questions  are  answered!  The  Lord  tells  us,  in 
one  revelation  given  to  Joseph  Smith,  that  "The  spirit  and  the  body 
are  the  soul  of  man."  (D.  &  C.  88:15)  How  completely  that  harmonizes 
with  this  dual  nature  of  things — The  spiritual  creation  and  the  natural 
creation ! 

And  now  let  us  visualize  the  Lord  standing  in  the  midst  of  his 
assembled  sons  and  daughters,  unfolding  to  them  his  almighty  purposes 
with  regard  to  the  salvation  and  exaltation  of  his  children,  the  plan 
covering  both  their  spirit  life  in  heaven  and  the  natural  life  on  earth  in 
bodies  of  flesh  and  bones ;  the  two  estates  of  man. 

All  this  was  shown  unto  Abraham  and  is  recorded  in  the  Book  of 
Abraham  which  was  translated  by  the  gift  and  power  of  God  from 
papyrus  by  Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet.   Let  me  quote : 

Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto  me,  Abraham,  the  intelligences  that 
were  organized  before  the  world  was ;  and  among  all  these  there  were 
many  of  the  noble  and  great  ones ; 

And  God  saw  these  souls  that  they  were  good,  and  he  stood  in  the 
midst  of  them,  and  he  said :  These  I  will  make  my  rulers ;  for  he  stood 
among  those  that  were  spirits,  and  he  saw  that  they  were  good ;  and 
he  said  unto  me :  Abraham,  thou  art  one  of  them ;  thou  wast  chosen  before 
thou  wast  born. 

And  there  stood  one  among  them  that  was  like  unto  God,  and  he 
said  unto  those  who  were  with  him:  We  will  go  down,  for  there  is  space 
there,  and  we  will  take  of  these  materials,  and  we  will  make  an  earth 
whereon  these  may  dwell ; 

And  we  will  prove  them  herewith,  to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things 
whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God  shall  command  them; 

And  they  who  keep  their  first  estate  shall  be  added  upon ;  and  they 
who  keep  not  their  first  estate  shall  not  have  glory  in  the  same  kingdom 
with  those  who  keep  their  first  estate ;  and  they  who  keep  their  second 
estate  shall  have  glory  added  upon  their  heads  for  ever  and  ever. 

And  the  Lor~d  said :  Whom  shall  I  send  ?  And  one  answered  like 
unto  the  Son  of  Man :  Here  am  I,  send  me.  And  another  answered  and 
said :  Here  am  I,  send  me.  And  the  Lord  said :  I  will  send  the  first. 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


119 


And  the  second  was  angry,  and  kept  not  his  first  estate;  and,  at  that 
day,  many  followed  after  him.  (Abraham  3:22-28) 

What  a  flood  of  light  is  thrown  on  the  scriptures  through  this 
marvelous  revelation.   How  many  questions  are  answered. 

The  New  and  Everlasting  Covenant  was  first  made  in  heaven ;  and 
afterwards  renewed  on  earth — all  through  the  Bible  references  are  made 
to  it.  This  Covenant  is  the  very  essence  of  God's  dealings  with  his 
children.  This  also  explains  why  the  children  of  Abraham  were  called 
God's  chosen  people. 

Abraham  was  known  unto  God  as  one  of  the  great  and  noble  ones 
for  his  integrity,  and  God  knew  that  he  would  teach  his  children  after 
him;  therefore,  he  was  chosen  before  he  was  born  to  become  the  father 
of  the  faithful  through  whom  the  knowledge  of  the  true  and  living 
God,  even  the  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob,  or  Israel's  God  as  he  is 
variously  called,  should  be  maintained  upon  the  earth  among  the  children 
of  men;  and  those  who  were  permitted  to  come  through  his  lineage 
were  among  the  great  and  noble  ones,  or  in  other  words,  among  those 
who  had  been  valiant  in  their  first  Estate. 

Thus  it  will  be  seen  it  was  a  "natural  selection"  or  we  might  say 
"a  survival  of  the  fittest."  It  may  also  be  said  that  through  this  lineage 
have  come  the  prophets  and  apostles,  the  "morning  stars"  who  sang 
together  in  the  primeval  days  before  the  world  was.  Judah  held  the 
scepter  through  whom  many  kings  among  the  nations  came,  and  through 
the  tribe  of  Levi  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  during  the  Mosaic  dispensation 
was  preserved ;  but  last  and  greatest  of  all  through  this  lineage  came 
the  "Only  Begotten  Son  of  God"  in  the  flesh,  but  also  the  son  of  Mary 
a  literal  descendant  of  Abraham.  Thus  it  is  seen  that  through  this 
lineage  "all  of  the  nations  of  the  earth  have  been  blessed." 

Notwithstanding  all  this  it  is  still  true  that  God  is  no  respecter  of 
persons  and  all  that  filled  their  first  Estate  are  now  to  pass  the  second 
trial. 

There  will  be  many  of  Abraham's  seed  who,  on  account  of  their 
wickedness,  will  be  cast  out,  and  still  many  others  who  are  not  of  his 
lineage  who  by  reason  of  their  obedience  will  be  grafted  into  the  Olive 
tree  and  become  known  as  the  children  of  Abraham— the  "chosen 
people  of  God." 

From  these  quotations  from  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  we  also  learn 
that  God  created  this  earth  expressly  for  the  habitation  of  his  children 
in  their  mortal  bodies  which  were  to  be  made  out  of  the  elements  of 
the  earth — our  mother  earth — out  of  the  dust  of  the  ground,  and  that 
too  for  our  second  trial — our  second  Estate — the  span  of  human  life — 
the  probationary  period. 

But,  before  placing  us  here  on  earth,  he  first  made  covenant  with 
us  that  if  we  kept  our  first  Estate  we  shall  be  added  upon.  In  other 
words,  there  shall  be  added  to  our  immortal  spirits  these  bodies  of  flesh 
and  bones.  And  if  we  keep  our  second  Estate  then  "glory  shall  be  added 
upon  our  heads  for  ever  and  ever."  No  wonder  then  that  the  sons 
and  daughters  of  God,  especially  those  who  were  valiant  in  their  first 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Estate — the  great  and  the  noble — "the  morning  stars  sang  together, 
and  all  the  sons  of  God  shouted  for  joy."  (See  Job  38:4-7) 

This  passage  from  Job,  which  even  now  is  a  mystery  to  the  world, 
is  fully  explained  by  this  marvelous  revelation  from  the  Book  of  Abra- 
ham. 

Then  the  question  arose:  "Whom  shall  I  send?  And  one  answered 
like  unto  the  Son  of  Man:  Here  am  I,  send  me."  (Abraham  3:27) 

"Father,  thy  will  be  done,  and  the  glory  be  thine  forever."  (Moses 

4:2) 

But  another  one  arose  and  he  said :  "Behold,  here  am  I,  send  me, 
I  will  be  thy  son,  and  I  will  redeem  all  mankind,  that  one  soul  shall  not 
be  lost,  and  surely  I  will  do  it;  wherefore  give  me  thine  honor."  (Moses 
4:1) 

But  God  said: 

"I  will  send  the  first."  (Abraham  4:27) 

And  Satan  rebelled  against  God,  so  there  was  war  in  heaven,  and 
the  war  begun  in  heaven  has  been  continued  here  on  earth. 

And  the  great  dragon  was  cast  out,  that  old  serpent,  called  the  Devil, 
and  Satan,  which  deceiveth  the  whole  world:  he  was  cast  out  into  the 
earth,  and  his  angels  were  cast  out  with  him.  (Rev.  12:9) 

The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  embodies  within  it  "all  things  whatsoever 
the  Lord  our  God  shall  command  us."  If  we  render  obedience  to  this, 
and  remain  true  to  our  covenants  unto  the  end,  we  shall  have  glory  added 
upon  our  heads  for  ever  and  ever. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  that  we  may  attain  to  this  exaltation,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Come,  Come,  Ye 
Saints." 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

While  the  Pharisees  were  gathered  together,  Jesus  asked  them, 
saying,  what  think  ye  of  Christ? 

As  deep  answering  deep,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  affirms : 

We  believe  in  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  and  in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ, 
and  in  the  Holy  Ghost. 

We  believe  that  through  the  atonement  of  Christ,  all  mankind  may 
be  saved,  by  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel. 

"the  richest  hill  on  earth" 

A  few  months  ago,  while  visiting  the  Northwestern  States  Mission, 
accompanied  by  its  capable  mission  president,  Preston  Nibley,  I  entered 
the  city  of  Butte,  Montana.  I  beheld  on  a  large  board  this  inscription : 
"The  Richest  Hill  on  Earth." 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


121 


Butte  derives  its  name  from  the  old  French  word  "butte"  meaning 
a  rounded  hill.  The  hill  is  pierced  by  a  hundred  shafts  from  which  has 
been  hoisted  to  the  surface  $2,500,000,000  of  mineral  wealth.  But 
values  are  relative.  What  men  call  treasures  God  calls  dross.  The  truth 
still  remains :  "For  the  love  of  money  is  the  root  of  all  evil." 

When  I  read  that  inscription,  I  said  to  myself,  "There  is  a  small 
and  solemn  hill  outside  the  ancient  city  of  Jerusalem  which  has  yielded 
no  mineral  treasures,  nevertheless  it  is  reverently  regarded  by  true 
Christians  as  the  richest  hill  on  earth." 

For  on  sacred  Calvary  took  place  the  crucifixion  of  Jesus  Christ, 
which  Canon  Farrar  declares  was  "the  most  stupendous  and  moving 
scene  in  the  world's  history." 

BANISHED  FROM  GOD'S  PRESENCE 

Spiritual  ruin  came  by  the  fall  of  man.  This  is  the  sad  story  told 
in  the  Holy  Scriptures:  "Because  that  Adam  fell  we  are;  and  by  his 
fall  came  death;  and  we  are  made  partakers  of  misery  and  woe.  And 
men  have  become  carnal,  sensual  and  devilish,  and  are  shut  out  from 
the  presence  of  God." 

Man,  by  sin,  brought  himself  into  the  captivity  of  sin.  His  nature, 
by  reason  of  the  fall,  became  evil  continually.  He  was  shut  out  from 
the  presence  of  the  Lord.  What  a  terrible  sentence !  Imagination  cannot 
conceive  a  more  dreadful  judgment.  It  was  not  in  man's  power  to  escape 
from  the  misery  that  never  dies.  This  judgment  mortal  man  could  not 
reverse.  There  was  no  appellate  court.  It  was  to  be  of  endless  duration. 
Hope  seemed  to  have  bade  the  world  farewell.  In  despair  man  stood 
helpless. 

Against  this  dark  background,  God,  who  is  love  and  with  whom 
there  is  forgiveness,  caused  to  shine  brightly,  the  three  graces,  Faith, 
Hope  and  Love.  He  told  Adam  that  Jesus  Christ,  the  righteous  Judge, 
would  come  in  the  meridian  of  time  and  atone  for  original  guilt. 

Down  through  the  ages  this  living  faith  and  hope  sustained  those 
who  believed  in  the  heavenly  promises.  The  Messiah  became  the  con- 
solation of  Israel.  "God  had  turned  away  his  judgments  because  of  his 
Son." 

THE  ATONING  SACRIFICE 

God  himself  came  down  from  heaven  and  made  the  Divine  Sacri- 
fice. The  God  of  Nature  suffered  and  died  on  the  Cross.  The  Apostle 
Paul  said :  "We  shall  be  saved  by  his  life,  *  *  *  by  whom  we  have  now 
received  the  atonement."  (Romans  5:10) 

"The  next  day  John  seeth  Jesus  coming  unto  him,  and  saith,  Behold 
the  Lamb  of  God,  which  taketh  away  the  sin  of  the  world."  (John  1 :29) 

On  the  Cross  our  Savior  paid  the  debt  that  made  mankind  free. 
He  bought  us  with  the  price  of  his  precious  blood.  We  are  not  our 
own  for  we  are  bought  with  a  price.  His  blood  atones  for  all  our  sins, 
through  obedience  to  righteousness,  but  it  shall  not  cleanse  those  who 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


obey  not  his  commandments.  The  manner  of  our  redemption  calls 
forth  our  love  and  affection. 

Through  the  infinite  atonement  and  resurrection  of  our  Lord  we 
receive  forgiveness  of  sin,  immortality,  a  glorious  resurrection  and  eternal 
life  "which  gift  is  the  greatest  of  all  the  gifts  of  God"  provided  we  walk 
before  Him,  "in  all  the  commandments  and  ordinances  of  the  Lord 
blameless."  Death  lost  its  sting,  the  grave  its  victory.  The  Savior's 
death  was  the  door  to  the  glorious  resurrection. 

Yes,  Calvary  is  the  richest,  hill  on  earth. 

THE  INFLUENCE  OF  THE  CHRIST 

A  Roman  ruler  was  dying.  With  relentless  cruelty  he  had  sought 
to  destroy  the  sect  that  was  everywhere  spoken  against,  but  in  vain. 
He  had  been  found  fighting  against  God.  Pointing  with  trembling 
finger  in  the  direction  of  Calvary  he  said  feebly  :  "O  Nazarene,  Nazarene, 
thou  hast  conquered  mightily." 

The  sublimity  of  the  Christ  is  manifested  in  many  men,  softening 
the  hearts  of  statesmen  and  generals.  The  Savior  is  a  very  present  help 
in  time  of  need.    He  pitieth  the  poor. 

General  Lee  and  General  Grant  met  in  Appomattox,  near  the 
famous  apple  tree,  where  General  Grant  wrote  the  terms  of  the  sur- 
render of  the  Confederate  Army.  He  says  in  his  own  simple  account 
of  the  event,  "The  question  of  the  disposition  of  the  Confederates' 
horses  arose.  I  thought  they  would  need  them  for  the  spring  plowing." 
Then  the  General  magnanimously  permitted  the  Confederates  to  retain 
their  horses.  He  had  a  vision.  The  spirit  of  Isaiah  rested  upon  him. 
Swords  were  to  be  beaten  into  plow  shares.  He  beheld  the  battle- 
scarred  fields  of  Dixie  blooming  in  incomparable  beauty  with  corn  and 
cotton.  I  believe  that  he  heard  the  voice  of  Jesus  saying :  "Inasmuch 
as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one  of  the  least  of  these  my  brethren,  ye  have 
done  it  unto  me."  The  great  soldier  decided  to  turn  into  plow  horses 
those  war  horses,  which  had  hauled  the  Confederates'  artillery  to  points 
where  death  and  devastation  could  be  poured  into  the  Union  ranks. 

Oh,  that  our  foreign  statesmen,  diplomats,  and  generals  could  see 
the  vision  of  farms  instead  of  battle  fields.  Then  fields  which  are  now 
running  red  with  human  blood  would  soon  bloom  with  life  saving  har- 
vests. Someone  has  said  that  a  sword  is  a  misshaped  plow.  God  hasten 
the  day  when  in  this  war-torn  world  there  will  be  more  plows  than 
swords. 

SPIRITUAL  RICHES   FROM  CUMORAH 

Another  hill,  old  in  story,  is  ancient  Cumorah.  Out  of  that  hill 
came  truth  and  spiritual  riches  that  will  never  fade  nor  perish — a  volume 
of  Scripture,  the  Book  of  Mormon.  For  many  long  centuries  the  people 
whom  Columbus  found  when  he  stepped  on  the  shores  of  America  had 
no  recorded  knowledge  of  their  forefathers,  or  the  will  of  God  con- 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


123 


cerning  them.    Without  scripture  which  would  make  them  wise  unto 
salvation  through  faith  in  Jesus  Christ  they  "wandered  as  strangers  in 
sin."  The  deep  darkness  of  ages  had  rested  like  a  pall  over  their  buried 
past.  But  God  said,  "Let  there  be  light ;  and  there  was  light." 
The  Prophet  Joseph  joyfully  exclaimed: 

And  again,  what  do  we  hear.  Glad  tidings  from  Cumorah.  Moroni, 
an  angel  from  heaven,  declaring  the  fulfillment  of  the  prophets,  the  book 
to  be  revealed. 

The  Book  of  Mormon,  like  the  Bible,  is  holy  because  it  testifies 
that  the  Savior  is  the  Son  of  God.  The  Nephite  record  contains  the 
account  of  the  Messiah's  marvelous  ministry  to  his  "other  sheep"  on 
the  western  hemisphere,  after  his  resurrection  and  ascension  into  heaven. 
To  be  a  witness  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  and  to  the  truth  of  the  Bible,  is 
the  chief  mission  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  which  ancient  prophets, 
notably  Isaiah,  predicted  would  be  brought  forth  to  magnify  the  name  of 
God. 

America's  destiny  foretold 

Behold  the  destiny  of  the  United  States  in  the  light  of  Book  of 
Mormon  prophecies : 

The  Gentiles  shall  be  blessed  upon  this  land. 
And  this  land  shall  be  a  land  of  liberty  unto  the  Gentiles. 
There  shall  be  no  kings  upon  the  land  who  shall  raise  up  unto  the 
Gentiles. 

For  I,  the  Lord,  the  king  of  heaven,  will  be  their  king. 
And  I  will  fortify  this  land  against  all  other  nations. 

These  glorious  predictions  shall  be  fulfilled  upon  this  people  upon 
the  unchangeable  condition  that  "they  will  serve  the  God  of  the  land 
who  is  Jesus  Christ." 

It  cannot  be  said  truthfully  that  Mormonism  is  intolerant  or  un- 
patriotic. In  the  hearts  of  this  people  is  the  essence  of  true  political 
faith,  true  patriotism  for  God  and  country,  for  which  they  would  shed 
the  last  drop  of  their  heart's  blood. 

Our  wonderful  Republic.  May  we  revere  our  heaven  inspired 
Constitution  and  keep  it  foursquare  with  the  plan  of  its  inspired  archi- 
tects, I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

BISHOP  JOHN  WELLS 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  desire  to  call  your  attention  to  an  incident  in  the  life  of  the 
Master.  The  last  day  of  the  Master's  life  had  come.  His  apostles 
had  met  with  him  to  commemorate  the  Passover.  The  spirit  of 
Jesus  was  troubled,  no  doubt,  because  of  his  impending  betrayal  and 
sacrifice.  After  he  had  designated  the  traitor  and  Judas  Iscariot 
had  left  the  room,  Jesus  felt  free  to  speak,  as  though  he  had  been 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


relieved  of  a  burden.  He  said  in  effect :  "Now  is  the  Son  of  Man 
glorified  and  God  is  glorified  in  him.  A  new  commandment  I  give 
unto  you,  that  ye  love  one  another  as  I  have  loved  you;  that  ye  also 
love  one  another.  By  this  shall  all  men  know  that  ye  are  my  dis- 
ciples, if  ye  have  love  one  to  another." 

To  be  a  true  follower  or  disciple  of  our  Savior  we  must  dem- 
onstrate our  love  for  God,  for  our  Savior  and  for  our  fellowmen. 
The  Apostle  John  states :  "And  this  commandment  have  we  from 
him,  that  he  who  loveth  God  loveth  his  brother  also."  We  can  show 
our  love  one  to  another  by  brotherly  kindness,  neighborliness,  serv- 
ice in  both  spiritual  and  temporal  things,  and  by  the  spirit  of  benevo- 
lence and  forgiveness.  We  manifest  our  love  for  one  another  by  our 
righteous  precepts  and  by  our  good  example,  that  others  knowing 
our  teachings  and  feeling  the  influence  of  our  good  example,  may 
be  induced  to  follow  in  paths  of  rectitude. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  received  several  revelations  from 
the  Lord  containing  this  new  commandment  of  the  Master.  The 
ideal  and  practical  application  of  this  commandment  "to  love  one 
another"  is  found  in  the  system  the  Lord  revealed  to  the  Saints 
known  as  the  United  Order.  An  epitome  of  these  revelations  gives 
the  spirit  of  this  economic  system :  It  is  not  intended,  in  this  heaven- 
sent plan,  that  one  person  should  possess  that  which  is  above  an- 
other. Every  member  of  the  Church  was  to  have  an  equal  claim  for 
his  just  wants  and  needs,  these  claims  to  be  exercised  for  the  benefit 
of  the  Church  as  a  whole;  every  member  to  improve  his  talents  and 
use  them  for  the  common  good ;  every  member  to  seek  the  interest 
of  his  neighbor.  The  purpose  of  this  order  was  to  bring  about  equal- 
ity in  wealth ;  there  would  be  no  rich,  no  poor,  ample  for  everyone 
and  funds  to  build  up  Zion.  Under  this  system  there  would  be  no 
waste,  no  idlers ;  industry  would  be  dignified ;  all  would  work  for  the 
common  good.  With  this  equality  in  temporal  things,  we  find  a 
foundation  for  equality  in  spiritual  things.  The  word  of  the  Lord 
is  "If  ye  are  not  equal  in  earthly  things,  ye  cannot  be  equal  in  spirit- 
ual things."  The  Lord  never  intended  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  be 
in  bondage  to  others,  nor  in  the  bondage  of  debt. 

Let  us  consider  our  present  situation :  Ours  is  a  rich  nation,  the 
richest  in  the  world.  However,  statements  have  been  made  to  the 
effect  that  there  is  more  unemployment  and  that  there  are  more  de- 
pendents on  charity  in  the  United  States  than  in  all  Europe.  During 
the  past  fifty  years  the  number  of  farmers  who  own  their  own  farms 
has  decreased;  the  number  of  mortgaged  farms  has  increased;  the 
number  who  are  living  on  farms  has  decreased.  The  conditions  in  the 
world  today  of  poverty,  lack  of  employment  and  our  competitive 
method  of  doing  business  indicate  that  there  is  a  crying  need  for  a 
re-statement  of  the  commandment  of  the  Master  that  "ye  love  one 
another." 

I  am  thankful  for  the  Church  Security  Program,  which  has  as 
some  of  its  objectives :  to  help  us  "seek  the  interest  of  our  neigh- 


BISHOP  JOHN  WELLS 


125 


bor ;"  to  promote  the  spirit  of  service  and  brotherly  kindness ;  to 
promote  equality  in  temporal  things,  to  care  for  the  poor  and  needy ; 
to  eliminate  want  and  suffering;  to  find  employment  for  Latter-day 
Saints;  to  encourage  the  return  to  farms;  to  assist  unemployable 
members  to  do  Temple  work ;  to  locate  Latter-day  Saints  on  land 
where  they  may  become  independent ;  to  encourage  quorums  of 
the  Priesthood  to  develop  useful  quorum  projects;  to  stimulate  the 
beautification  of  homes  and  places  of  worship ;  to  have  canning  and 
sewing  centers;  to  take  care  of  surplus  food,  or  in  other  words  to 
develop  brotherhood  and  cooperation.  This  plan  has  been  in- 
augurated by  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church.  Its  efficacy  and 
purpose  can  never  be  doubted.   It  is  for  our  benefit  and  our  blessing. 

George  Holyoake,  the  author  of  books  on  Consumers'  Coopera- 
tion, made  a  statement  which  I  think  can  be  applied  to  our  Church 
Security  Plan.   He  said : 

Cooperation  touches  no  man's  fortune,  seeks  no  plunder,  causes  no  dis- 
turbance in  society,  gives  no  trouble  to  statesmen,  enters  into  no  secret 
associations,  contemplates  no  violence,  subverts  no  order,  envies  no  dignity, 
asks  no  favor,  keeps  no  terms  with  the  idle,  and  will  break  no  faith  with 
the  industrious. 

I  want  to  express  my  appreciation  for  what  has  been  done  un- 
der this  security  program  of  the  Church.  As  I  see  it,  it  is  the  be- 
ginning of  higher  and  nobler  things.  The  Lord  intends  his  people 
to  be  equal  in  all  things,  both  temporal  and  spiritual. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  get  back  to  simple  methods  of 
living — of  helpfulness,  each  Latter-day  Saint  doing  his  share  in  the 
community,  cooperating  in  all  useful  efforts  and  for  the  good  of  all. 
We  are  ideally  situated  to  carry  forward  cooperation  in  temporal 
affairs,  for  we  are  accustomed  to  cooperating  in  spiritual  matters. 
I  sincerely  hope  we  will  give  study,  thought  and  consideration  to 
"seeking  the  interest  of  our  neighbor  and  doing  all  things  with  an 
eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God."  Remember  always  the  words  of  the 
Master,  "By  this  shall  all  men  know  that  ye  are  my  disciples,  if  ye 
have  love  one  to  another."  May  we  apply  the  spirit  and  meaning 
of  this  commandment  in  our  daily  lives. 

My  heart  is  filled  with  thanksgiving  for  the  Gospel  and  for  the 
privileges  and  blessings  I  enjoy.  I  appreciate  my  membership  in 
the  Church  and  the  opportunity  which  is  mine  to  labor  in  the  min- 
istry, to  give  service  in  the  Church.  I  know  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  Prophet  of  the  Living 
God,  and  that  through  his  instrumentality  this  great  latter-day  work 
has  been  established.  It  will  continue  to  increase,  gathering  power 
and  influence  as  it  grows  in  years  and  numbers! 

May  we  follow  the  counsel  and  admonitions  given  to  us  in  these 
latter-days  for  our  spiritual  and  temporal  welfare,  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


BISHOP  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  rejoice  this  day,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  my  lot.  I  am 
happy  to  have  the  privilege  of  laboring  with  these,  our  brethren, 
whom  we  sustain  as  the  Authorities  of  the  Church. 

I  am  grateful  to  my  Heavenly  Father  for  permitting  me  to  hold 
the  holy  Priesthood,  the  power  of  which  I  have  seen  manifest  in  un- 
mistakable manner.  I  am  grateful  for  the  privilege  that  comes  to 
me  of  visiting  with  you  in  your  homes,  in  your  wards,  in  your  stakes, 
where  I  receive  blessings  and  encouragement. 

I  want  to  say  to  my  brethren  who  feel  to  criticise  the  President 
of  this  Church  for  repeatedly  calling  your  attention  to  your  failure 
to  keep  the  commandments  which  God  has  given,  especially  you 
who  have  had  the  Priesthood  conferred  upon  you — when  you  feel 
this  desire  coming  upon  you,  think  what  you  would  do  under  the 
conditions  we  face  in  this  day,  were  you  in  the  position  of  the  Presi- 
dent of  this  Church,  and  felt  the  responsibility  as  he  feels  it.  Then 
perhaps  you  would  change  your  mind  and  your  attitude.  I  have  no 
word  of  censure  for  you,  only  pity,  and  in  a  spirit  of  love  I  call  upon 
you  to  repent,  for  you  are  walking  in  the  shadow  of  darkness  and 
in  danger  of  becoming  lost,  for  so  the  Lord  hath  spoken. 

To  me  it  seems  that  there  has  been  no  time  in  the  history  of 
the  Church  when  it  was  more  necessary  that  we  should  arm,  not  with 
the  implements  of  modern  warfare — and  may  I  say  the  cruel  im- 
plements of  modern  warfare — which  are  a  menace  to  the  world  in 
this  day,  but  with  the  authority  of  the  holy  Priesthood,  clothed  with 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  is  promised  to  us  as  a  guide, 
and  which  will,  through  our  faithfulness,  lead  us  into  the  path  of 
light  and  truth  and  righteousness  and  on  to  eternal  life  and  ex- 
altation. 

It  is  a  great  privilege  to  go  into  the  world  to  preach  the  Gospel. 
It  is  a  greater  privilege  to  preach  it  in  our  home,  in  the  home  of  our 
neighbor,  our  friend,  our  kindred.  This  is  our  mission.  This  is  our 
work,  as  the  army  of  the  living  God,  clothed  with  his  power  and 
authority.  Are  we  using  it  to  the  fullest?  Are  we  neglecting  it? 
Do  we  appreciate  it? 

I  constantly  pray  that  I  shall  not  be  found  at  any  time  be- 
littling this  great  work  which  has  been  entrusted  to  our  care,  or 
making  light  of  those  who  I  know  are  heart  and  soul  in  this  great 
work,  full  of  faith  and  knowledge  and  honesty  of  purpose. 

I  thank  my  God  for  his  blessings,  for  his  plan  of  salvation,  his 
Gospel  message,  and  that  I  find  in  my  soul  harmony  therewith.  May 
his  blessings  be  upon  us.  May  we,  in  the  power  which  he  intends 
that  we  shall  have,  go  forward  to  accomplish  his  purposes,  that  his 
blessings  shall  rest  upon  us  in  abundance,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


127 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  for  the  vote  of  the  Conference  the  General  Authorities  and 
General  Officers  of  the  Church  as  follows,  all  of  whom  were  unanimously- 
sustained  : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Reed  Smoot  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

George  Albert  Smith  John  A.  Widtsoe 

George  F.  Richards  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Charles  A.  Callis 

Stephen  L.  Richards  Albert  E.  Bowen 

ACTING  PATRIARCH  TO  CHURCH 

George  F.  Richards 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency  and  the  Twelve  Apostles 
as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Samuel  O.  Bennion 

Levi  Edgar  Young  John  H.  Taylor 

Rufus  K.  Hardy 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH    HISTORIAN   AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants :  Andrew  Jen- 
son  and  A.  William  Lund. 

CHURCH   BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  John  A.  Widtsoe 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Adam  S.  Bennion 

David  O.  McKay  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Rudger  Clawson  Franklin  S.  Harris 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Charles  A.  Callis 

Stephen  L  Richards  Franklin  L.  West 
Richard  R.  Lyman 

Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER  OF  EDUCATION 

Franklin  L.  West 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Orval  W.  Adams  John  F.  Bennett 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

David  A.  Smith,  President;  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor;  D. 
Sterling  Wheelwright,  Assistant  Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Wade  N.  Stephens,  Assistant 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Louise  Y.  Robison,  President 
Amy  Brown  Lyman,  First  Counselor 
Kate  M.  Barker,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

George  D.  Pyper,  General  Superintendent 
Milton  Bennion,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
George  R.  Hill,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


129 


YOUNG   MEN'S   MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Q.  Morris,  General  Superintendent 
Joseph  J.  Cannon,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Burton  K.  Farnsworth,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  WOMEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Ruth  May  Fox,  President 
Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  First  Counselor 
Clarissa  A.  Beesley,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  Superintendent 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Edith  Hunter  Lambert,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  am  very  pleased  indeed  to  express  my  deep  appreciation  of  our 
Conference,  from  start  to  finish. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  am  thankful  for 
the  devotion  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  as  a  whole. 

CONSCIENTIOUS  OBSERVANCE  OF  LAWS  REQUIRED 

I  announced  here  at  the  Priesthood  meeting  last  night  and  I  decided 
to  announce  it  again  that  we  expect  all  the  General  Officers  of  the  Church, 
each  and  every  one  of  them,  from  this  very  day,  to  be  absolute,  full 
tithepayers,  to  really  and  truly  observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom ;  and  we  ask 
all  of  the  officers  of  the  Church  and  all  members  of  the  General  Boards, 
and  all  Stake  and  Ward  officers,  if  they  are  not  living  the  Gospel  and 
honestly  and  conscientiously  paying  their  tithing,  to  kindly  step  aside, 
unless  from  this  day  they  live  up  to  these  provisions. 

We  have  undertaken  a  most  stupendous  work  and  there  will  be 
no  difficulty  whatever  in  carrying  out  that  great  work.  We  will  have  an 
abundance  to  take  care  of  every  living  Latter-day  Saint  who  is  in  distress. 
Mind  you,  when  I  say  Latter-day  Saint  I  mean  Latter-day  Saint.  I 
am  not  talking  about  idlers.  I  am  not  talking  about  people  that  want  to 
lie  down  and  let  somebody  else  take  care  of  them — I  am  talking  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  If  the  people  will  pay  their  tithing  and  if  they  will 
keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  will  actually,  really,  and  for  a  fact,  fast 
two  meals  once  a  month  and  give  the  equivalent,  we  will  be  able  to  carry 
forward  our  Security  Plan  without  any  trouble  whatever. 

It  is  simply  marvelous  that  people  can  live  on  eleven  cents,  some 
of  them — two  meals  a  day  once  each  month  for  twelve  months  in  the 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


year — twenty-four  meals  on  a  half  a  cent  a  meal.  (Or  at  least,  so  their 
fast  offerings  would  indicate.) 

We  feel  that  in  all  the  stakes  of  Zion,  every  stake  president,  every 
counselor  to  a  stake  president,  every  stake  clerk,  and  every  high  councilor, 
standing  at  the  head  of  the  people  in  the  stake — we  ask  them  to  kindly 
step  aside  unless  they  are  living  up  to  these  laws.  They  are  given  the 
responsibility  of  presiding,  and  every  officer  who  is  a  presiding  officer 
should  say  from  today:  "I  am  going  to  serve  the  Lord,  so  that  my 
example  will  be  worthy  of  imitation." 

No  man  can  teach  the  Word  of  Wisdom  by  the  Spirit  of  God  who 
does  not  live  it.  No  man  can  proclaim  this  Gospel  by  the  Spirit  of  the 
Living  God  unless  that  man  is  living  his  religion ;  and  with  this  great 
undertaking  that  we  have  before  us  now  we  must  renew  our  loyalty 
to  God,  and  I  believe  beyond  a  shadow  of  doubt  that  God  inspires  and 
blesses,  and  multiplies  our  substance  when  we  are  honest  with  him. 
We  do  not  want  in  this  day  a  repetition  of  what  the  scriptures  tell  us 
was  the  condition  in  years  gone  by,  wherein  the  Lord  declares  that  he 
had  been  robbed,  because  of  the  failure  of  the  people  to  live  the  financial 
law  that  God  has  revealed. 

Now,  I  pray  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  that  God  will  give  each 
and  every  man  and  woman  who  holds  an  office  in  any  stake  or  ward  the 
spirit  and  the  feeling  and  the  determination  from  this  day,  to  renew 
his  covenants  with  God,  to  live  his  religion;  and  if  we  are  too  weak 
to  do  these  things,  we  should  step  aside  and  let  somebody  else  take  our 
place. 

THE  MIND  AND  THE  WILL  OF  THE  LORD 

The  Word  of  Wisdom,  we  are  told,  is  such  that  it  can  be  kept  by 
"the  weak  and  the  weakest  of  all  Saints."  1  have  heard  that  some  of  the 
members  of  Boards,  after  the  law  was  passed  legalizing  beer,  said :  "Well, 
I  do  declare,  now  I  am  entitled  to  have  a  glass  of  beer."  No  Latter-day 
Saint  is  entitled  to  anything  that  is  contrary  to  the  mind  and  the  will 
of  the  Lord,  and  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  the  mind  and  the  will  of  the 
Lord. 

I  want  you  to  know  that  this  will  make  no  difference  to  me  personally, 
but  as  the  shepherd  of  the  flock,  the  day  has  come,  in  my  judgment  and 
in  the  judgment  of  my  associates,  that  we  must  live  up  to  and  be  loyal 
to  this  work  and  serve  God  with  all  our  heart,  might,  mind,  and  strength, 
if  we  are  to  accomplish  what  the  Lord  wants  us  to  do. 

BLESSINGS  INVOKED 

I  thank  you  all  for  your  presence  here.  1  thank  the  Lord  for  the 
splendid  Conference  we  have  had.  In  so  far  as  God  has  given  me  the 
power  to  do  so  I  pray  God  to  bless  you  one  and  all.  I  pray  God  to  bless 
all  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  pray  God  to  bless  every  soul  that  has  good 
intentions,  and  to  strengthen  him  and  her  in  their  determination  to  keep 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord.    I  love  the  Lord ;  I  love  the  Latter-day 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


131 


Saints  ;  I  love  the  honest  the  world  over ;  I  have  no  animosity  against  any 
living  soul.  The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  one  of  forgiveness  of  wrong- 
doing. It  is  a  part  of  the  Gospel  to  forgive  those  who  have  done  wrong, 
when  they  repent,  but  "By  this  ye. may  know  if  a  man  repenteth  of  his 
sins — behold,  he  will  confess  them  and  forsake  them."  He  will  do  them 
no  more. 

The  time  has  expired. 

May  God's  blessings  be  with  each  and  all  of  you,  and  with  all  the 
Saints,  and  with  all  the  honest  the  world  over,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer,  Amen. 

The  Choir  sang  the  "Hallelujah  Chorus"  (Handel). 
Elder  Paul  C.  Child,  President  of  the  Pioneer  Stake,  offered  the 
benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


The  singing  at  the  two  Friday  sessions  of  the  Conference,  by  the 
Relief  Society  Singing  M others,  was  under  the  direction  of  Sister  Char- 
lotte O.  Sackett ;  Elder  Carl  Nelson  directed  the  singing  of  the  Nebo 
Stake  Choir  at  the  Saturday  morning  and  afternoon  sessions ;  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall  led  the  congregational  singing  at  all  the  sessions  and  conducted 
the  singing  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  on  Sunday. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played 
by  Frank  W.  Asper. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Authorities  Present    1 

Authorities,  Presentation  of  127 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J   20 

Encouraged  as  to  Security  Program,  20 — Appeal  to  Members,  20— 
Problems  Solved  in  the  Lord's  Way,  21 — Keeping  of  Word  of 
Wisdom  Urged,  21 — Standards  should  be  Maintained,  22 — Opportunity 
now  to  Get  Ahead,  22 — Surroundings  Preach  the  Gospel,  23 — A  Re- 
ligion that  Sustains,  23 — Joy  In  Achievement,  24. 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  O   81 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E   84 

Pioneers  Laid  the  Foundation,  84 — A  Rich  Heritage,  85 — Conviction 
Comes  Through  Endeavor,  86— Spirituality  within  Reach  of  All,  87 — 
The  Rich  and  the  Poor  Warned,  88 — Tithes  and  Offerings,  88— 
Conviction  Gave  Courage,  89. 

Broadcast,  Choir  and  Organ   99 

Broadcast,  Church  of  the  Air   99 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A  120 

"The  Richest  Hill  on  Earth,"  120 — Banished  from  God's  Presence, 
121 — The  Atoning  Sacrifice,  121 — The  Influence  of  the  Christ,  122 — 
Spiritual  Riches  from  Cumorah,  122 — America's  Destiny  Foretold,  123. 

Cannon,  Bishop  Sylvester  Q   42 

Larger  Crops  and  Better  Prices,  43 — Effect  of  Farm  Products  Prices 
on  Economic  Conditions,  43 — Wages  and  Industrial  Progress,  43 — 
Improvement  in  Financial  Conditions,  44 — Responsibilities  of  Church 
Officers,  44 — Fasting  and  Fast  Donations,  45 — Statistics  on  Relief, 
46 — Church  Building  Program,  46 — Training  in  Building  Construction, 
46 — Counting  the  Cost,  47. 

Changes  in  Church  Officers   95 

Choir  Broadcast    99 

Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast   99 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  104 

An  Outstanding  Scout  Leader,  104 — Tribute  to  Choir,  104 — Simplicity 
of  Worship,  105 — A  Living  Faith,  105 — Grateful  for  our  Country, 
106 — Security  Program  is  Successful,  106 — Gives  Admonition,  107 — 
Our  Mission,  107. 

Clawson,  President  Rudger  109 

A  Remarkable  Book,  109 — Revelation  on  the  Three  Glories,  109 — 
Revelation  on  Priesthood,  111 — Revelation  on  the  Eternity  of  the  Mar- 
riage Covenant,  111 — Revelation  on  Tithing,  112 — The  Word  of  Wis- 
dom, 112 — The  Appearance  of  the  Savior  in  the  Kirtland  Temple,  113, 
Study  of  Standard  Works  Urged,  113. 

Colton,  Elder  Don  B  -   54 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting    24 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting   2 


INDEX  133 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  127 

General  Authorities  Present    1 

General  Auxiliary  Officers   128 

General  Officers  of  the  Church  128 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 


Report  of  European  Tour,  2 — Profitable  Meetings  in  Switzerland,  2 — 
Cordial  Reception  in  Czechoslovakia,  3 — Liberty  in  Germany,  3 — 
Buildings  Dedicated  in  Great  Britain,  4 — Centennial  Celebration  in 
Preston  and  Rochdale,  5 — Visits  Holland,  6 — Experiences  in  Scandi- 
navia, 7 — Impressed  by  Change  in  Attitude,  8 — Story  of  Interview 
with  Editor,  8 — Idleness  not  to  be  Encouraged,  10 — Revelation  to 
Hyrum  Smith,  11 — The  European  Saints  To  Have  More  Attention,  13 
— A  Financial  Savior,  13 — The  Word  of  Wisdom,  14 — Joy  in  Bearing 
Testimony,  16 — Success   Follows   Keeping  of   Commandments,  16. 


Grant,  President  Heber  J   54 

Released  Presidents  of  Missions  to  be  called  upon  to  speak,  54. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   66 

Endorses  Remarks  of  Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe,  66. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   93 

Expensive  and  Injurious  Habits,  93 — Regarding  Tillers  of  the  Soil, 
94 — A  Favorable  Magazine  Article,  94. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   95 

Changes  in  Organizations  since  Last  Conference,  95 — Auxiliary  Board 
Members,  Bishops  and  others  who  have  Passed  Away  since  Last 
Conference,  97. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   97 

A  Choice  Land,  97 — Faith  in  Divinity  of  the  Gospel,  98 — Skilful  in 
Use  of  Cement,  98 — The  Inexplicable  Explained,  98 — Grateful  for 
Growth  of  Church,  99. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  104 

Announces  Number  of  People  in  Tabernacle,  Assembly  Hall  and 
on  Grounds,  104. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J    108 

Asks  to  be  excused  from  attending  Conferences  other  than  the  General 
Sessions,  108. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  127 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities,  127 — Officers  of  the  Church,  128 
— General  Auxiliary  Officers,  128. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J.  .  .  .  .*  129 

Conscientious  Observance  of  Laws  Required,  129 — The  Mind  and 
Will  of  the  Lord,  130— Blessings  Invoked,  130. 

Hardy,  Elder  Rufus  K   28 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   77 

Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden   30 

Kirkham,  Elder  James  M   66 


134 


INDEX 


Lyon,  Elder  T.  Edgar   60 

Mallory,  Elder  LeRoy    91 

McKay,  President  David  0  100 

Applied  Christianity,  100 — Denote  Obligation,  100 — Standards  Violated, 
101 — Violations  at  Home,  101 — Willingness  to  Serve,  102 — Simple 
Principles,  103. 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F   71 

Need  of  Greater  Faith,  72 — Faith  Based  Upon  Intelligence,  72 — 
Evidences  of  Joseph  Smith's  Inspiration,  73 — Some  Achievements  of 
Joseph  Smith,  75 — Josiah  Quincy's  Tribute,  76 — Results  of  Faith,  76 — 
Advice  to  Young  People,  77. 

Quinney,  Elder  Joseph,  Jr   57 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   25 

Testimony,  25 — Gospel  the   Power  of   God   unto   Salvation,  26 — 
Responsibility  Towards  Others,  26. 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand   89 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L    34 

Faith  Brings  Humility,  35 — Stimulation  Through  Recognition  of 
Higher  Power,  35 — The  Highest  Order  of  Intelligence,  35 — Faith  a 
Divine  Gift,  36 — An  Important  First  Step  in  Acquiring  Faith,  36 — 
Merely  Arguments,  37 — A  Declaration  of  Faith,  37 — Spiritual  Exer- 
cise, 38 — Thoughts  Must  Be  Disciplined,  39 — A  Caution  and  Promise, 
40. 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   71 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting  ,   48 

Smith,  Bishop  David  A  126 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert      48 

Perilous  Times,  48 — Repentance  and  Humility  Needed,  49 — The  Path- 
way to  the  Celestial  Kingdom,  49 — The  Price  of  Peace  and  Happiness, 
50— Flying  in  a  Fog,  50 — An  Electric  Highway,  51 — Following  the 
Charted  Course,  52 — The  Pilot  of  the  Church,  52 — The  Pathway  to 
Peace,  53 — Avoiding  Pitfalls,  53. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  .-  113 

A  Perfect  Organization,  113 — Our  Duty  to  Honor  Priesthood,  114 — 
Smoking  in  Public  Places,  115 — Charles  C.  Goodwin's  Editorial,  116 
— Closing  Instruction,  117. 

Smith,  Elder  Nicholas  G   56 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed   17 

Obedience  to  Laws  of  the  Church  Brings  Honor,  17 — Dr.  Karl  G. 
Maeser's  Sayings,  17 — Change  Wrought  by  the  Gospel,  19 — Service 
is  Joy,  19. 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H   40 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting  108 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting   94 

Welker,  Elder  Roy  A   58 

Wells,  Bishop  John  123 


INDEX  135 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S  117 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A   62 

Rejoices  in  Remarks  of  President  Grant,  62 — The  Lord  Gives  Spir- 
itual Laws  Only,  63 — Happiness  in  Humble  Pursuits,  63 — Agriculture 
a  Basic  Industry,  64 — Food  the  First  Necessity,  64 — Agriculture  and 
Science,  65 — Life  on  the  Farm  can  be  Made  Rich,  65. 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   68 


SddL 

The  Deseret  Book  Company  is  headquarters  for  all 
L.  D.  S.  publications,  as  well  as  for  general  books  of 
every  kind.  We  especially  call  your  attention  to  the 
following  books,  on  sale  here: 

Program  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 

Latter-day  Saints,  by  John  A.  Widtsoe..$1.25  (plus 

postage) 

A  Century  of  Mormonism  in  Great  Britain, 

by  Richard  L.  Evans  $1.25  (postpaid) 

Romance  of  the  Book  of  Mormon, 

by  Josiah  E.  Hickman  $2.50  (postpaid) 

Progress  of  Man, 

by  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  $1.50  (postpaid) 

Whatever  your  book  needs,  consult  us  first.  We  have 
the  most  comprehensive  stock  of  books  in  the  inter- 
mountain  region,  and  we  specialize  in  books  about  the 
Mormons  and  the  West.  We  invite  your  inquiries. 


Expert  Service  by  Mail. 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

44  East  South  Temple,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


A  Few  of  the  Books  that  will 
Help  You  to  Understand 
"Mormon  ism" 

The  Book  of  Mormon 

The  latest  edition  comes  to  you  in  four  different  bindings.  Of  course  the  text 
remains  the  same  but  there  are  added  features  which  make  the  edition  more  complete 

Missionary  Edition     $  .50 

Cloth  binding,  embossed      1.50 

Full  Morocco   .  3.00 

The  Gospel  and  Man's  Relationship  to 

Deity 

BY  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

"It  is  to  place  within  their  reach  a  brief  and  simple  exposition  of  the  first  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel  that  this  work  has  been  prepared,  and  is  now  presented  to  the 
youth  of  Zion;  and  it  is  the  earnest  hope  of  the  author  that  by  a  patient  perusal  of 
these  pages  those  who  now  believe  the  Gospel  will  find  their  faith  strengthened  and 
confirmed;  and  those  who  do  not  believe  it  will  be  convinced  of  its  truth." 

Price   $1.25 

The  Story  and  Philosophy  of 
"Mormon  ism" 

BY  JAMES  B.  TALMAGE 

Comprising  "The  Story"  as  told  in  addresses  at  Cornell  and  Michigan  Universities 
and  elsewhere,  followed  by  an  address  delivered  at  the  Panama-Pacific  Exposition, 
entitled  "The  Philosophical  Basis  of  'Mormonism.'  " 

doth   *  .75 

In  Search  of  Truth 

BY  ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE  OF  THE  QUORUM  OF  THE  TWELVE 

Bound  in  Art  Cloth  $1.00 

This  new  book  answers  the  questions,  "What  is  Science"  and  "How  does  the 
Church  view  Science."    A  practical  book  for  our  THINKING,  young  people. 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


