A  FULL  REPORT  OF  THE  PROCEEDINGS 


•  Fiftieth  Annual  Conferenc 


Cjjuttjj  of  fesns  Christ  of  Jatto-kg  Saints, 


— *»..—  •w -  -  **.  — -T — 


THE   YEAR  OF  JUBILEE 


J? 


HELD  IN  THE 


f.   LARGE  TABERNACLE,  SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH, 

April  6t/i,  jt/i  and  Wi,  A.  D.  1880. 


ALSO,  A  REPORT  OF  THE 


EXERCISES  IN  THE  SALT  LAKE  ASSEMBLY  HALL, 


JSlJNDAY  AND  MONDAY  JUST  PRECEDING  THE  pOXPERENCE, 


Reported  by  GEORGE  F.  GIBBS  and  JOHN  IRVINE. 


SALT  LAKE  CITY:     .        ^     ;  ; 

DESERET  NEWS  PRINTING  AND  PtTBI.rSHIN(i  ESTABLISHMENT. 


I  880; 


THE   YEAR   OF  JUBILEE. 


A  FULL  REPORT  OF  THE  PROCEEDINGS 

OF  THE 

Fiftieth  Annual  Conference 

OF  THE 

Cljitrdj  of  |esus  djjrisf  d  Jafto-kj  Saints, 

HELD  IN  THE 

LARGE  TABERNACLE,  SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH, 

April  6th,  yth  and  8//z,  A.  D.  1880. 

ALSO,  A  REPORT  OF  THE  • 

EXERCISES  IN  THE  SALT  LAKE  ASSEMBLY  HALL, 

ON  THE 

gUNDAY  AND  /VS.ONDAY  JUST  PRECEDING  THE  pONFERENCE, 

Reported  by  GEORGE  F.  GIBBS  and  JOHN  IRVINE. 

SALT  LAKE  CITY: 
DESERET  NEWS  PRINTING  AND  PUBLISHING  ESTABLISHMENT. 
1880. 


PREFACE. 


T  N  compliance  with  a  widely  expressed  wish,  we  herewith  publish  the  pro- 
ceedings  of  the  late  Conference  in  pamphlet  form.  It  is  believed  that  in 
this  shape  the  excellent  and  inspiring  instructions  imparted  during  the  Con- 
ference will  be  made  much  more  available  for  general  reference  and  distri- 
bution, and  will  be  appreciated  by  those  who  desire  to  preserve  the  ser- 
vices of  the  Jubilee  Conference. 


TWO   DAYS'  MEETINGS 

IN  THE 

SALT  LAKE  ASSEMBLY  HALL. 


IN  accordance  with  previous  announcements,  meetings  were  held  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  on  Sunday  and  Monday,  April  4th  and  5th,  preparatory  to 
the  General  Conference  to  be  convened  in  the  Large  Tabernacle.  At  an  early 
hour  the  Saints  began  to  assemble,  and  by  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  the  time  for  open- 
ing the  services,  the  new  and  elegant  building  was  filled,  and  soon  after  was 
crowded  in  every  part. 

The  congregation  was  called  to  order  by  President  John  Taylor,  and 
after  singing  by  the  Tabernacle  choir,  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Moses 
Thatcher. 

PRESIDENT   JOHN  TAYLOE. 

I  am  happy  to  have  the  privilege  of  meeting  with  the  Saints  in  this  new 
hall.  It  is  not  quite  finished,  but  yet  it  is  so  far  comfortable  that  we  can  have 
an  opportunity  of  meeting  and  conferring  together.  When  the  building  is  fully 
completed — the  organ  and  everything  in  its  proper  place — we  shall  then  have 
it  dedicated,  as  is  our  custom,  to  the  Lord  our  God,  for  the  purpose  of  meet- 
ing here  and  attending  to  whatever  may  be  required. 

As  the  6th  of  April  falls  on  next  Tuesday,  we  thought  it  better  to  have  a 
two  days'  meeting  before  hand,  that  we  might  have  an  opportmnity  of  listening 
to  the  principles  that  will  be  presented  by  our  brethren,  the  Twelve  and  others, 
and  we  are  in  hopes  that  on  the  6th  day  of  April  we  shall  be  able  to  meet  in 
the  large  Tabernacle,  which  will  accommodate  all  who  may  desire  to  attend. 

And  while  we  are  assembled  together  in  the  capacity  01  a  Conference,  it 
is  proper  that  our  hearts  and  feelings  and  affections  should  be  turned  to  God, 
that  we  may  reflect  upon  his  kindness,  his  mercy  and  salvation  extended  to  us 
as  a  people;  that  we  may  also  reflect  upon  our  weaknesses,  our  infirmities, 
our  follies  and  our  foibles,  and  be  enabled  to  lay  them  aside,  feeling  that  we 
are  the  Saints  of  God,  with  responsibilities  to  attend  to;  and  that  it  is  our 
duty  and  our  delight  to  listen  to  and  be  governed  by  those  great  principles 
which  God  has  revealed  for  the  salvation  of  the  human  family. 


6 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


On  the  6th  day  of  April  the  church  will  have  been  organized  fifty  years, 
and  we  might  with  very  good  propriety  call  it  a  year  of  jubilee,  or  rather  the 
close  of  the  year  of  jubilee.  And  while  we  are  assembled  together,  either  in 
our  meeting  prior  to  the  Conference  or  afterwards  in  the  Conference,  it  be- 
comes us,  when  we  reflect  upon  the  kindness  and  mercy  which  God  has  vouch- 
safed to  us  during  the  last  fifty  years,  to  renew  our  covenants  before  him,  and 
feel  in  our  hearts  that  we  are  his  people  and  that  he  is  our  God.  His  mercy 
and  salvation  will  still  be  extended  to  us,  if  we  will  only  obey  his  laws,  keep 
his  commandments,  and  pursue  that  course  that  is  proper  and  acceptable  in 
his  sight. 

I  do  not  wish  to  make  many  remarks  this  morning.  I  thought  I  would  just 
rise  and  introduce  some  of  those  principles  that  naturally  tend  to  bring  our 
minds  to  reflection. 

On  the  fiftieth  year,  in  former  times,  among  the  ancients,  they  had  what 
was  termed  a  year  of  jubilee.  Slaves  were  liberated.  People  who  were  in 
debt  were  forgiven  their  indebtedness— that  is,  the  poor,  the  needy  and  the  dis- 
tressed. And  we  are  reflecting  upon  some  things  pertaining  to  that  matter, 
which  will  be  presented  in  due  form ;  and  we  wish  to  start,  as  it  were,  and  feel 
to  determine  in  our  hearts  that  the  Lord  is  our  God,  the  Lord  is  our  Judge,  the 
Lord  is  our  Law-giver,  and  he  shall  rule  over  us ;  and  we  will  try  and  be  his 
people  and  observe  his  laws.  And  I  would  ask  my  brethren  and  sisters  to  give 
us  an  interest  in  their  faith  and  prayers,  that  we  shall  be  enabled  to  advance 
such  principles  as  will  be  calculated  to  enlighten,  to  quicken,  to  refresh  and  to 
strengthen  us,  that  we  may  pursue  in  after  years,  with  more  vigor  and  deter- 
mination, that  path  which  God  has  revealed  unto  us.  Amen. 

ELDER   WILFOKD  WOODRUFF. 

President,  brethren  and  sisters:  God  bless  you,  (Amen),  and  may  the 
peace  of  God  abide  with  you,  and  the  Spirit  of  God  within  these  walls, 
and  may  it  rest  upon  the  Apostles,  Elders  and  Saints  while  we  assemble 
together  to  worship  God.  I  feel  in  my  heart  to  praise  the  Lord  for  his  mer- 
cies and  blessings  over  the  Apostles  and  Elders  and  Saints  and  church  and 
kingdom  of  God  to  the  present  hour.  I  see  before  me  here  the  symbols  of 
the  history  of  this  church  and  kingdom,  and  some  of  us  have  been  pre- 
served by  the  hand  of  God  to  pass  through  its  travels,  its  progress  and  its 
history  almost  from  the  beginning  until  the  present  day;  and  while  I  listened 
to  the  remarks  of  Brother  Taylor,  I  reflected  in  my  own  mind  upon  the  day 
and  age  and  time  of  our  history.  Fifty  years  have  passed  and  gone,  or 
nearly  so,  since  the  organization  of  this  church  and  kingdom  on  the  earth. 
Whatever  the  feelings  of  the  world  may  be  with  regard  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  with  regard  to  their  lives,  their  history,  their  organization,  their  per- 
secutions, and  their  drivings  until  the  present  day,  whether  they  believe  or 
disbelieve,  it  matters  not  to  the  purposes  of  God,  who  stands  at  the  head, 
even  our  Heavenly  Father.  This  is  the  church  and  kingdom  of  God;  it  is 
the  church  of  Christ;  it  is  the  organization  of  the  kingdom  of  God,  that  has 
been  spoken  of  by  all  the  prophets  since  the  world  began;  it  is  the  Zion  of 
God  that  Isaiah  and  Jeremiah  and  many  of  the  other  prophets  saw  by  vision 
and  revelation  in  their  day  and  generation.    In  my  own  mind  I  cannot  conceive 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


7 


of  any  fifty  years  since  the  creation  of  this  world,  in  its  history  before  the 
heavens,  before  the  Gods,  before  the  angels,  and  before  the  world,  of  more 
importance  or  consequence  than  the  last  fifty  years  through  which  we  have 
passed ;  and  if  the  vail  could  only  be  lifted  from  our  eyes,  so  that  we  could  see 
and  comprehend  our  destiny,  our  position,  our  responsibilities,  and  what  is 
required  at  our  hands  by  the  God  of  Israel,  we  should  all  of  us  feel  the  impor- 
tance of  improving  our  time,  magnifying  our  calling,  striving  to  live  by  every 
word  that  proceedeth  forth  from  the  mouth  of  God. 

I  hold  in  my  hand  our  testament.  The  testator  is  dead,  has  been  dead  for 
a  great  many  years.  He  sealed  his  testimony  with  his  blood.  That  testament 
is  in  force,  has  been  in  force  upon  all  the  world  from  the  day  of  his  death ;  and 
not  only  from  that  day,  but  from  the  time  these  revelations  were  given  to  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth.  That  testament  contains  a  volume  of  the  most  im- 
portant revelations  God  ever  gave  to  man.  Fifty  years  ago,  or  nearly  so,  when 
He  gave  some  of  these  revelations,  the  Lord  said  to  Joseph  Smith,  "  If  you 
believe  my  words  you  will  go  and  prune  my  vineyard  while  the  day  lasts;  If 
you  believe  these  revelations  I  have  given  you,  you  will  take  hold  and  build  up 
this  kingdom."  When  I  reflect  that  it  is  fifty  years  since  these  revelations 
were  given,  I  ask  myself  the  question — What  condition  are  we  in  to-day  as  a 
people,  as  Latter-day  Saints?  What  is  our  condition,  our  position  to-day 
before  the  Lord?  What  is  the  condition  of  the  world?  What  is  the  condition 
of  Great  Babylon?  What  is  the  condition  of  the  Saints,  the  Elders  of  Israel, 
and  the  Lord's  anointed,  and  the  people  whom  he  has  chosen  and  called  upon 
and  raised  up  to  take  hold  and  build  up  Zion,  build  up  the  kingdom,  sanctify 
themselves  before  God  and  prepare  themselves  for  the  coming  of  the  Son  of 
man?  I  have  sometimes  feared  in  my  own  mind  concerning  ourselves,  that  we 
are  not  living  as  near  to  the  Lord  as  we  ought  to  do ;  we  do  not  always  com- 
prehend the  responsibilities  which  we  are  under  to  God  our  Heavenly  Father. 
When  I  reflect,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Lord  has  ordained  the  estab- 
lishment of  Zion,  upon  the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  us  in  warning  the  gen- 
eration in  which  we  live  that  they  may  be  left  without  excuse  in  fulfilment  of 
the  revelations  contained  in  this  volume  (the  Book  of  Mormon) — when  I  reflect 
that  we  are  called  as  the  servants  of  the  Lord  to  perform  this  work,  I  feel 
within  my  own  mind  as  the  Lord  has  said  now  nearly  fifty  years  ago,  that  if  we 
believe  the  words  of  the  Lord  we  will  labor  while  it  is  called  to-day.  The 
Lord  looks  to  nobody  else,  he  expects  nothing  from  anybody  else,  as  far  as  the 
fulfilling  of  the  revelations  in  the  Bible,  Book  of  Mormon,  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants are  concerned ;  he  looks  to  no  other  nation,  kindred,  tongue,  or  people 
henceforth  to  go  and  perform  this  work,  but  the  Saints  of  the  living  God.  If 
the  Lord  has  any  friends  on  the  earth  they  are  the  Saints  of  God,  and  if  the 
Saints  of  God  have  any  friends  anywhere,  they  consist  of  the  God  of  Israel 
and  the  heavenly  hosts,  and  the  spirits  of  just  men  made  perfect. 

In  my  view,  we  as  Latter-day  Saints  are  approaching  a  change.  We  are 
approaching  important  events.  It  cannot  be  otherwise  in  the  face  of  the  reve- 
lations of  God,  in  the  Bible,  in  the  Testament,  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
than  that  a  change  is  about  to  take  place  in  the  world.  The  Lord  has  said  that 
he  would  make  the  work  short  in  the  latter  days,  that  he  would  cut  it  short  in 
righteousness.    Fifty  years  is  a  good  while  to  pass  away  in  the  dispensation 


8 


TWO  days'  meetings 


and  generation  in  which  we  live,  and  it  has  taken  from  the  earth  during  this 
time  a  great  many,  I  will  say  all  of  the  founders  of  this  church  and  kingdom. 
It  has  taken  into  the  spirit  world  many  of  the  Apostles,  many  of  the  Elders, 
many  thousands  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  sometimes  when  I  look  around 
and  contemplate  on  the  past,  I  at  times  feel  lonesome.  I  look  back  to  the 
days  of  Joseph  Smith,  Hyrum  Smith,  and  to  the' patriarchs,  prophets  and 
apostles  that  lived  in  that  day,  and  I  find  that  a  great  share  of  them  are  in  the 
spirit  world.  There  are  but  very  few  left  now  who  were  alive  at  the  organiza- 
tion of  this  church  upon  the  earth.  I  believe  that  Brother  Orson  Pratt  is  the 
only  man  who  dwells  in  the  flesh,  who  is  in  the  church,  who  was  organized  in 
the  first  Quorum  of  the  Twelve.  Brother  Taylor  and  myself  remain  of  those 
who  were  organized  in  the  second  organization.  But  Brother  Taylor  and  my- 
self and  Brother  Pratt  and  a  good  many  others  will  not  tarry  a  great  while 
here.  We  shall  pass  on  to  the  other  side  of  the  vail,  and  join  those  who  have 
gone  before,  as  will  many  who  are  in  this  congregation.  This  is  not  our  home, 
but  we  will  dwell  in  the  flesh  until  we  pass  through  a  change.  We  are  apt 
sometimes  in  our  reflections  to  marvel  and  wonder  why  the  Lord  has  taken 
away  so  many  men  who  have  been  called  as  Apostles  and  prophets  and  Elders 
of  the  Zion  of  God  into  the  spirit  world.  The  Lord  has  had  his  motive  in 
these  things.  I  see  (pointing  to  the  paintings  on  the  ceiling)  Joseph  Smith 
with  Moroni,  and  here,  with  Peter,  James  and  John,  receiving  the  priest- 
hood. How  long  did  he  (Joseph)  tarry  here  in  the  flesh?  Only  fourteen 
years  after  he  organized  this  church  and  kingdom,  the  church  and  kingdom 
of  God,  the  church  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  felt  as  though  we  could  not  live, 
could  not  exist,  without  Joseph.  We  felt  a  good  deal  as  the  Apostles  did 
when  Jesus  told  his  disciples  that  if  he  did  not  go  away  the  Comforter  would 
not  come.  They  did  not  comprehend  him;  they  did  not  understand  that 
Jesus  Christ  was  to  be  crucified,  notwithstanding  that  he  told  them  that  if  he 
did  not  go  away  the  Comforter  would  not  come.  Joseph  Smith  remained 
with  us  longer  than  the  Savior  did.  He  remained  only  about  three  and  a 
half  years  after  he  was  thirty  years  of  age,  an  age  which  the  Jewish  law  re- 
quired a  man  to  attain  before  officiating  in  the  priesthood.  Joseph  Smith 
remained  with  us  about  fourteen  years.  He  remained  until  he  had  received  all 
the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  God  which  were  necessary  for  the  establishment 
of  this  church  and  kingdom,  and  which  were  necessary  for  those  men  who  fol- 
lowed him  to  have  those  keys  upon  their  shoulders,  that  they  might  continue  to 
build  upon  the  foundation  that  had  been  laid;  but  as  soon  as.  Joseph  received 
the  keys  of  the  Aaronic  and  Melchizedek  priesthood,  as  soon  as  he  received 
the  keys  from  Moses  for  the  gathering  together  of  the  House  of  Israel  in  the 
latter  days,  and  from  Elijah  to  seal  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children  and 
children  to  the  fathers— when  Joseph  received  all  these  keys,  and  had  power 
to  seal  them  upon  the  heads  of  other  men,  the  Lord  called  him  away.  Why 
did  he  call  him  into  the  spirit  world?  Because  he  held  the  keys  of  this  dis- 
pensation, not  only  before  he  came  to  this  world  and  while  he  was  in  the  flesh, 
but  he  would  hold  them  throughout  the  endless  ages  of  eternity.  He  held  the 
keys  of  past  generations— of  the  millions  of  people  who  dwelt  on  the  earth  in 
the  fifty  generations  that  had  passed  and  gone  who  had  not  the  law  of  the  gos- 
pel, who  never  saw  a  prophet,  never  saw  an  Apostle,  never  heard  the  voice  of 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


9 


any  man  who  was  inspired  of  God  and  had  power  to  teach  them  the  gospel  of 
Christ,  and  to  organize  the  church  of  Christ  on  earth.  He  went  to  unlock  the 
prison  doors  to  these  people,  as  far  as  they  would  receive  his  testimony,  and 
the  Saints  of  God  who  dwell  in  the  flesh  will  build  temples  unto  the  name  of 
the  Lord,  and  enter  these  temples  and  perform  certain  ordinances  for  the 
redemption  of  the  dead.  This  was  the  work  of  Joseph  the  prophet  in  the 
spirit  world.  Now,  I  believe  in  my  own  mind  that  every  Elder  of  Israel  who 
has  gone  into  the  spirit  world,  who  has  been  faithful  in  the  flesh,  has  as  much 
to  do  on  the  other  side  of  the  vail  as  we  have  to  do  here,  and  if  anything  more 
so.  This  is  my  view  with  regard  to  tHfe  labors  of  the  Elders  of  Israel.  The 
Lord  hath  need  of  some  on  the  other  side  of  the  vail.  He  preserves  some  to 
labor  here,  and  he  takes  home  whom  he  will  according  to  the  counsels  of  his 
own  will;  this  is  his  manner  of  dealing.  Those  of  our  brethren  who  have 
passed  away  have  got  through  the  labors  of  the  flesh ;  we  are  left  here  to  labor 
a  little  while  on  the  earth.  Then  I  would  like  to  ask  my  brethren  and  sisters 
this  morning  in  view  of  these  things,  if  these  things  are  true,  if  this  is  the 
church  of  Christ,  if  this  is  the  Zion  of  God — which  the  Lord  Almighty  foreor- 
dained before  the  world  was  should  be  established  in  the  latter  days,  and  had 
a  class  of  men  and  women  whom  he  had  reserved  in  the  spirit  world,  whose 
lives  were  hid  with  Christ  in  God  and  knew  it  not,  to  come  forth  and  stand  in 
the  flesh  and  take  hold  of  this  kingdom  and  build  it  up,  and  war  with  the 
world,  the  flesh  and  the  devil — then,  if  this  be  true,  what  manner  of  men  and 
women  ought  we  to  be?  I  feel  in  my  reflections,  in  my  thoughts  and  in  my 
meditations,  that  we,  as  Elders  of  Israel,  should  have  nothing  else  to  do  in 
this  world  while  we  dwell  in  the  flesh  but  to  build  up  this  kingdom,  and  when 
we  are  building  up  this  kingdom  we  are  building  up  ourselves;  when  we  are 
faithful  to  God  we  are  magnifying  our  calling. 

The  eyes  of  the  heavenly  hosts  are  over  us;  the  eyes  of  God  himself  and 
his  Son  Jesus  Christ;  the  eyes  of  all  the  prophets  and  Apostles  who  have 
dwelt  in  the  flesh;  they  are  watching  our  works.  I  have  spent  more  time 
lately  with  those  who  are  in  the  spirit  world,  in  my  night  seasons,  than  in  all 
the  rest  of  my  life  together.  On  one  occasion  I  thought  in  my  dream  that 
Presidents  Young,  Kimball,  George  A.  Smi-th,  and  many  others,  attended  one 
of  our  Conferences.  When  Brother  Young  was  asked  to  preach  he  said:  "  No, 
I  have  done  my  preaching,  I  have  done  my  instructions  in  the  flesh;  I  have 
come  to  hear  you  talk,  I  have  come  to  look  at  you,  I  have  come  to  watch  over 
you,  I  wish  to  see  what  this  people  are  doing."  This  has  been  the  answer 
and  these  are  thoughts  I  believe  in.  I  believe  we  are  not  shut  out  from  God, 
we  are  not  shut  out  from  our  brethren,  though  the  vail  is  between  us.  They 
understand  our  works,  our  condition,  our  position,  and  I  feel  a  desire  myself, 
what  little  time  I  have  to  spend  in  the  flesh,  to  make  my  time  useful.  I  wish 
to  do  what  I  can  for  the  building  up  of  the  kingdom  of  God.  I  wish  to  do 
what  I  can  to  bring  to  pass  righteousness,  and  I  feel  that  we  should  all  be  in 
this  position;  we  should  all  labor  to  occupy  our  time,  our  talents,  and  our  at- 
tention as  far  as  we  possibly  can  to  build  up  the  kingdom  of  God. 

I  wish  to  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Sometimes  people  apostatize;  we 
speak  of  people  getting  into  the  dark.  It  does  not  make  any  difference  who 
sells  whiskey,  nor  who  drinks  it;  it  makes  no  difference  who  blasphemes  the 


10 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


name  of  God,  or  apostatizes  from  the  church  and  kingdom  of  God,  as  far  as 
the  establishment  of  the  kingdom  of  God  is  concerned ;  the  Lord  has  got  val- 
iant men  and  women  in  his  kingdom  who  will  be  true  and  faithful  to  the  Lord 
and  his  work.  If  half  of  this  church  were  to  fall  away,  it  would  not  destroy 
the  purposes  of  the  Lord.  With  regard  to  ourselves  that  is  another  thing. 
Many  men  who  have  received  the  gospel,  and  have  had  the  Holy  Ghost  con- 
ferred upon  them,  have  fallen  away,  but  in  doing  so  they  condemn  themselves, 
they  destroy  themselves,  they  miss  and  lose  all  the  hopes  they  ever  had  of 
eternal  life  and  the  blessings  of  God  in  the  celestial  kingdom.  Men  may  fall, 
but  the  kingdom  of  God  never,  never.  The  Lord  has  a  good  many  men  and 
women  in  this  church  and  kingdom  that  cannot  afford  to  surrender  any  princi- 
ple that  the  God  of  Israel  has  commanded  us  to  obey,  no  principle  that  the 
Lord  has  commanded  us  to  receive,  no  principle  that  is  embodied  in  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Why?  Because  we  know  and  understand  very  well  that  our 
destiny,  our  position,  and  our-blessings  are  all  in  his  hands.  We  also  know 
that  the  destinies  of  all  the  armies  of  the  nations  of  the  earth  under  the  whole 
heavens  are  in  the  hands  of  God.  The  Lord  guides  these  things;  he  will 
guide  them.  We  are  approaching  an  important  day  and  time.  We  are  ap- 
proaching a  period  when  there  must  be  a  change  in  Babylon,  a  change  in  our 
nation,  and  a  change  in  Zion.  Judgments  are  going  to  begin  at  the  house 
of  God.  They  will  go  forth,  and  will  not  be  taken  from  the  earth  until  all  has 
been  fulfilled. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  wished  to  say  this  much  this  morning.  I 
desired  to  exhort  you,  and  I  exhort  myself.  Let  us  watch  and  be  sober.  Let 
us  keep  the  commandments  of  God.  Let  us  labor  for  the  Holy  Spirit,  for 
without  this  no  man  can  serve  God.  What  condition  is  the  world  in?  To-day 
the  world  is  a  great  way  from  the  Lord,  and  they  are  getting  a  great  way  fur- 
ther off  year  by  year,  and  just  so  far  as  they  get  from  the  Lord  in  this  world, 
just  so  far  off  will  they  be  in  the  world  to  come.    Bear  this  in  mind. 

I  do  think  that  as  Elders  in  Israel  we  have  no  reason  to  be  discouraged. 
God  is  with  us.  God  is  with  this  people.  He  is  watching  over  our  interests. 
He  guides  and  directs  our  destiny,  and  you  may  look  back  and  scan  the  history 
of  this  church  and  kingdom  from  the  days  of  its  organization,  and  you  will 
find  it  has  never  gone  backward,  it  has  gone  forward  all  the  way  through,  year 
by  year,  no  matter  the  difficulties  thrown  in  our  way.  We  have  had  persecu- 
tion and  oppression ;  we  were  driven  from  one  place  to  another  for  many  years, 
until  we  were  driven  into  these  Rocky  Mountains,  to  the  land  given  to  Jacob 
and  his  posterity,  the  land  preserved  for  the  gathering  of  the  Saints  in  the  lat- 
ter days.  When  I  look  at  this  assembly  and  contemplate  the  work  of  this 
people  in  these  valleys  and  in  the  surrounding  Territories;  when  I  perceive 
how  this  desert  is  occupied,  how  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  progressing,  how 
they  are  cultivating  the  earth,  building  temples,  halls,  tabernacles,  school- 
houses,  towns  and  villages,  I  marvel  at  the  work  of  the  Lord.  This  is  the 
work  of  the  Almighty,  and  when  our  enemies  look  for  the  stoppage  of  this 
work,  for  the  stoppage  of  the  progress  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  they  will  be 
disappointed,  because  these  things  are  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord,  and  no  power 
can  hinder  their  progress. 

I  rejoice  in  having  the  privilege  of  meeting  with  an  assemblv  of  the  Saints 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


if 


of  God  in  Salt  Lake  City,  and  especially  in  such  a  good  building  as  this.  It 
is  a  credit  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  It  is  an  ornament  to  this  Temple  Block, 
and  an  honor  to  those  who  have  helped  lo  build  it.  We  must  continue  these 
things.  We  must  go  forward,  not  backward.  We  have  this  fine  temple 
which  we  are  building  at  the  present  time,  and  there  are  others  being 
erected  in  other  parts  of  the  Territory,  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  may  enter 
these  temples  of  our  God  and  attend  to  the  ordinances  for  the  redemption 
of  the  living  and  the  dead.  I  bear  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, the  whole  spirit  world  is  watching  your  labor  and  your  works,  and  as  I 
said  in  the  beginning,  if  the  vail  was  taken  from  off  our  eyes,  we  would  see 
the  responsibility  of  our  acts,  and  what  would  be  the  result  of  these  things? 
We  would  labor  diligently  and  do  all  we  could  for  the  rearing  of  these  temples 
for  the  redemption  of  our  dead ;  we  would  sanctify  ourselves  and  keep  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  and  unite  ourselves  together  according  to  the  law  of  God. 
There  are  many  things  we  do  as  Latter-day  Saints  that  we  should  abstain 
from;  we  should  see  the  importance  of  our  laboring  in  the  flesh  to  build  up  the 
Zion  of  God. 

I  have  spent  the  last  year  of  my  life  on  a  mission.  I  have  been  traveling 
with  our  southern  brethren ;  spent  some  time  in  the  temple ;  been  through 
Arizona,  where  the  brethren  and  sisters  are  living  in  the  United  Order.  I  will 
say  that  I  have  been  pleased  with  my  visit  to  the  southern  country.  In  many 
of  our  settlements  the  people  are  endeavoring  to  keep  the  commandments  of 
God,  uniting  together  according  to  the  order  of  the  kingdom  of  God;  and  I 
will  say  here  that  from  my  experience  among  them  I  am  pleased  with  the  re- 
sult, I  am  pleased  with  the  fruits  manifested  by  the  people,  and  you  know  we 
judge  a  tree  by  the  fruit  it  bears.  I  made  my  home  in  Sunset  when  I  was 
not  traveling.  The  people  there  are  living  in  the  United  Order,  as  also  in 
Brigham  City  and  St.  Joseph,  and  while  I  was  in  those  settlements  I  never 
heard  an  oath,  I  never  saw  a  quarrel,  I  never  saw  any  man  or  boy  smoke  a 
cigarette,  or  use  an  ounce  of  tobacco,  or  drink  whiskey,  or  drink  a  cup  of 
coffee  or  tea,  except  what  I  drank  myself.  The  idea  of  drinking  coffee  where 
nobody  else  was  drinking  it  was  a  very  poor  example,  I  thought,  for  an  Apos- 
tle; I  therefore  took,  instead  of  coffee,  water  and  milk,  and  have  felt  a  great 
deal  better.  The  promise  is  that  those  who  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom  "  shall 
run  and  not  be  weary,  shall  walk  and  not  faint,"  and  I  can  say  I  have  enjoyed 
much  better  health  than  before.  Another  thing  I  wish  to  mention.  Among 
this  people,  if  you  go  to  the  herd-grounds,  to  the  shepherds,  those  who  herd 
the  sheep  and  cattle,  you  never  see  any  man  with  a  pack  of  cards.  Every 
man  prays  morning  and  night  at  least,  and  you  will  always  find  a  book  of  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  Spencer's  Letters,  Voice  of  Warning,  or  other  good 
books.  I  speak  of  these  things  because  they  are  manifestations  of  good  fruit. 
God  has  blessed  the  people ;  they  are  living  together  in  peace  and  unity,  and 
there  are  many  others  who  are  bleesed  of  the  Lord  in  that  land  who  are  not 
altogether  carrying  out  these  principles.  But  I  do  think  the  Lord  requires  of 
us  to  unite  together.  I  think  it  is  our  duty  to  co-operate  together  and  help 
bring  about  temperance,  holiness  and  righteousness. 

I  spent  a  good  deal  of  my  time  last  season  in  visiting  our  Lamanite  breth- 
ren, the  American  Indians,  and  I  will  here  remark  that  while  in  Apache 


12 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


County  I  learned  it  was  reported  that  the  Mormons  were  accused  of  having 
supplied  arms  to  the  Utes  who  have  been  at  war  with  the  whites,  and  that  we 
urged  them  on  to  fight.  A  greater  libel  than  this  was  never  pepetrated.  The 
Latter-day  Saints  have  done  more  to  bring  the  American  Indians  to  peace 
than  all  the  efforts  of  the  United  States  put  together.  Until  the  Elders  of  Is- 
rael went  among  the  Indians  no  man's  life  was  safe,  no  matter  who  he  was  ; 
but  since  we  have  been  amongst  them  they  are  the  friends  of  the  white  man ; 
they  are  peaceable ;  many  of  them  have  turned  their  hearts  to  the  cultivation 
of  the  earth,  and  to-day  many  tribes  of  them  will  not  steal  the  cattle  and  the 
horses  of  the  white  men.  We  have  become  acquainted  with  many  of  the 
tribes  in  that  part  of  the  country.  We  have  had  many  opportunities  of  becom- 
ing acquainted  with  both  the  Navajoes  and  Apaches,  who  have  been  wander- 
ing, warlike  tribes,  and  no  white  man's  life  or  scalp  was  safe  with  them  until 
the  "Mormon"  Elders  went  among  them  and  taught  them  the  gospel  and  peace 
and  the  benefits  of  cultivating  the  earth.  Now  any  white  man  can- go  among 
them  in  safety,  if  he  will  behave  himself,  attend  to  his  own  business,  and  not 
interfere  with  the  families  of  the  Indians.  This  will  apply  to  the  Navajoes 
and  Apaches,  with  the  exception  of  a  remnant  of  Apaches  who  are  not  under 
the  control  of  Petrone  and  Pedro,  the  war  and  peace  chiefs.  This  remnant, 
under  Vutone,  is  still  on  the  war  path.  The  Navajoes  return  to  the  whites 
any  strayed  or  stolen  horses  or  cattle.  The  Navajoes  visit  the  "  Mormon " 
settlements  in  peace,  where  they  are  fed  and  treated  kindly,  taught  to  cultivate 
the  earth,  and  instructed  in  the  principles  of  peace  and  to  prevent  war. 

We  have  visited  the  Oribas,  Moquis,  Zunis,  Lagoonis,  and  Islatas.  All  live 
in  villages,  the  houses  of  which  are  made  of  stone,  laid  in  mortar,  and  are 
from  one  to  four  stories  high,  with  fiat  roofs.  They  and  their  forefathers  have 
occupied  these  villages  for  generations.  They  are  all  peaceable  Indians,  and 
all  wish  to  avoid  war.  The  Oribas  and  Moquis  occupy  seven  villages,  built 
upon  the  top  of  solid,  barren  rocks,  from  500  to  1 500  feet  nearly  perpendicular, 
with  no  soil  upon  the  rocks.  The  last  three  villages  we  visited  stand  upon  a 
barren  rock,  one  mile  long,  100  yards  wide  at  the  top,  and  about  1500  feet  high. 
The  three  villages  stand  upon  the  south  end  of  the  rock,  from  200  to  300  yards 
apart,  and  number  about  1500  people.  Were  it  not  for  a  sink  in  the  rock  of 
about  200  feet,  with  a  steep  serpentine  trail  and  stone  steps,  no  mortal  being 
could  reach  those  villages,  only  in  a  balloon.  The  natives  have  no  tradition 
who  built  the  villages,  but  they  have  been  occupied  for  centuries,  and  were  lo- 
cated in  their  romantic  situation  evidently  for  the  purpose  of  protection  from 
the  Navajoes,  the  traditional  enemies  of  the  Moquis,  and  also  from  other  ene- 
mies, who  would  rob  them  of  their  horses,  asses,  sheep  and  goats  whenever 
an  opportunity  presented  itself,  until  the  "  Mormons "  made  peace  between 
the  contending  parties,  and  now  they  are  on  friendly  terms.  The  Moquis  have 
a  thousand  or  more  acres  of  corn,  beans,  melons,  squashes,  and  peach  or- 
chards planted  in  the  sand  on  the  earth  below  them,  where  they  raise  good 
corn,  from  pure  white  to  jet  black,  without  irrigation.  The  black  corn  is  the 
best.  Every  pound  of  water,  wood  and  corn,  and  everything  they  subsist  upon, 
has  to  be  carried  up  the  steep  trail  and  stone  steps  some  1500  feet,  on  the  backs 
of  men,  women  and  asses,  as  it  is  too  steep  for  mules  and  horses.  There  is  a 
projection  on  the  east  side  of  the  mountain,  100  feet  from  the  top,  about  100 


TWO  DAYS  MEETINGS. 


13 


yards  in  length  and  twelve  feet  wide.  By  a  trail  in  the  side  of  the  mountain 
the  projection  is  reached,  and  every  night  it  is  filled  with  thousands  of  sheep 
and  goats,  which  are  kept  in  by  a  frail  stone  wall  about  two  feet  high.  Should 
an  animal  jump  over,  it  would  not  touch  ground  for  about  1200  feet,  which 
would  abridge  its  usefulness  for  either  wool  or  mutton. 

The  names  of  these  three  villages  are — first,  Hano;  second,  Cheehomova; 
third,  Walpe.  The  last  named  stands  on  the  south  end  of  the  rock,  and 
has  about  1000  people.  Their  workshops  stand  flush  with  the  outer  edge 
of  the  precipice.  Their  dwellings  stand  from  ten  to  twenty  feet  back  from  the 
edge,  with  nothing  to  keep  men,  women  or  children  from  falling  off,  either  by 
day  or  night.  Five  Navajoes  were  thrust  off  this  precipice,  several  years  ago, 
in  a  quarrel,  and  never  struck  ground  for  about  1500  feet.  One  Moquis  chief 
and  several  children  have  fallen  off  at  the  same  place,  and  the  only  wonder  is 
that  half  of  the  people  of  the  village  have  not  been  killed  in  the  same  way. 
In  my  visit  to  these  villages  I  was  accompanied  by  Elders  Lot  Smith  and  Ira 
Hatch. 

The  villages  eastward  are  built  upon  slightly  elevated  pieces  of  ground, 
and  are  much  better  off  than  the  Moquis.  The  Zunis,  Lagoonis  and  Islatas,  all 
have  large  cultivated  fields.  The  Islatas  are  the  most  advanced  in  civilization 
and  industry  of  any  natives  I  ever  visited.  The  village  numbers  3000  inhabit- 
ants, and  is  located  on  the  Rio  del  Norte,  twelve  miles  below  Albuquerque. 
When  I  visited  the  village  the  people  thereof  had  large  fields  of  corn,  kept 
clear  of  weeds  and  well  irrigated.  They  had  also  large  apple,  pear  and  peach 
orchards,  besides  twenty-one  grape  vineyards,  with  about  1000  vines  in  each, 
kept  clean  and  loaded  with  fine  fruit.  Their  houses  were  clean  and  neat  and 
some  of  their  floors  were  carpeted.  Theii  blood  has  been  kept  pure,  they  be- 
ing unmixed  with  other  tribes,  or  with  the  Mexicans  or  any  white  men.  The 
old  patriarch,  John  King,  the  leading  spirit  of  the  place,  said  it  was  seldom  a 
case  of  seduction  or  adultery  had  occurred  among  his  people;  and  he  said  that 
death  had  always  been  the  penalty  for  the  crime. 

I  saw  one  peculiar  practice  in  Islata  that  I  never  saw  in  any  civilized  city. 
No  man,  woman,  or  child  was  permitted  to  sweep  any  dust  or  dirt  from  the 
floor  to  the  sidewalk  or  into  the  street  under  penalty  of  a  fine.  All  sweep- 
ings had  to  be  gathered  into  baskets,  or  on  blankets,  at  the  threshold,  and 
emptied  upon  one  of  the  mounds  located  in  different  parts  of  the  city. 

We  occupied  a  house  facing  the  public  square.  The  largest  mound  in  the 
city  was  near  that  location,  and  measured  140  yards  in  circumference  and  forty 
feet  high,  all  gathered  from  sweepings  of  floors,  probably  for  generations,  as 
it  did  not  appear  that  any  had  been  carted  away. 

It  is  expected  that  the  railway  will  cross  at  Islata,  there  being  the  only 
rocky  bed  and  shores  for  many  miles  up  and  down  that  river. 

The  Islatas  have  their  own  laws,  rules,  regulations,  courts,  police,  etc. 
They  are  a  wealthy  people,  and  stand  at  the  he'ad  of  many  of  the  surrounding 
villages.  They  have  traditions  among  them  concerning  their  past  and  future 
history,  which  they  are  looking  for  the  fulfilment  of.  Their  record  gives  a 
history  of  their  final  restoration  to  civilization,  industry,  prosperity  and  the 
gospel  of  Christ,  and  their  deliverance  from  oppression  and  war.  This  must 
be  the  future  destiny  of  a  remnant  of  them,  or  the  promises  of  their  forefa- 


14 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


thers  must  fall  unfulfilled.  Elders  Ammon  M.  Tenney  and  Christopher- 
sen  accompanied  me  on  my  visit  to  these  villages.  Brother  Tenney,  three 
years  previous,  had  visited  the  inhabitants  of  these  villages,  and  had  formed 
an  acquaintance  with  them  and  assisted  in  baptizing  one  hundred  and  fifteen 
of  the  Zunis. 

I  feel  to  thank  the  Lord  that  I  have  lived  to  see  this  day  and  time ;  that  I 
have  lived  to  see  the  Fiftieth  Anniversary  of  the  history  of  the  church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints ;  and  brethren  and  sisters,  whatever  little  time  we 
have  to  spend  let  us  spend  it  in  laying  aside  iniquity,  let  us  labor  to  build  up 
the  kingdom  of  God.  Our  position  after  death  will  depend  upon  the  little 
time  that  we  spend  here  in  the  flesh,  and  when  I  consider — when  I  can  get 
enough  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  guide  my  mind  to  comprehend  the  bless- 
ings of  life  and  salvation — when  I  consider  the  great  difference  between  being 
in  the  kingdom  of  God  and  out  of  it —  I  think  it  will  pay  any  man  or  woman 
to  keep  the  commandments  of  God.  Blessed  is  that  people  whose  God  is  the 
Lord.    The  Latter-day  Saints  profess  to  make  our  Heavenly  Father  their  God. 

I  do  not  wish  to  detain  my  brethren  and  sisters  any  longer  this  morning.  I 
rejoice  again  to  see  you,  and  again  to  walk  the  streets  of  Salt  Lake  City.  And 
I  hope  while  we  are  together  in  this  Conference  the  Spirit  of  God  may  be  with 
us,  that  our  hearts  may  be  enlightened,  our  minds  opened  to  comprehend  our 
duties,  and  that  we  will  be  inspired  to  teach  the  Saints  of  God  in  the  path  of 
righteousness  and  truth,  which  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDEE   MOSES  THATCHES. 

I  have  been  very  much  edified  with  the  remarks  to  which  we  have  listened. 
I  feel  that  we  are  a  blessed  people  in  being  privileged  to  meet  and  worship  God 
under  so  favorable  circumstances ;  and  while  listening  to  the  remarks  of  my 
brethren  it  has  been  very  apparent  to  my  mind  that  God's  kingdom  is  increas- 
ing, that  the  stakes  of  Zion  are  being  extended  and  her  cords  lengthened.  We 
are  engaged  in  the  work  of  God,  our  Heavenly  Father.  We  are,  as  a  people, 
in  the  enjoyment  of  privileges  that  are  very  great;  indeed,  we  live  in  that  day 
and  age  of  the  world  to  which  the  prophets  anciently  looked  with  joy  and  re- 
joicing. God's  kingdom  is  being  built  up,  never  again  to  be  thrown  down  nor 
given  to  another  people.  Whatever  may  be  the  reflections  of  the  people  of 
the  world  in  regard  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  there  is  one  fact  that  is  apparent 
to  them,  and  that  is  that  we  are  growing,  that  we  are  increasing  in  numbers, 
that  while  our  mission  is  "  peace  on  earth  and  good  will  to  men,"  the  powers 
of  God  are  being  made  manifest,  and  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  are  being 
preached  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people. 

We  have  been  seeking  for  years  to  extend  this  knowledge  to  the  Lamanites, 
to  the  remnants  of  the  House  of  Israel,  to  the  fruit  of  the  loins  of  Jacob 
through  Joseph,  but  until  recently  it  has  been  apparent  to  us  that  their  hearts 
have  not  been  opened  to  receive  the  testimony  which  is  contained  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon. 

_ 1  have  listened  with  much  pleasure  to  the  remarks  of  Elder  Woodruff 
which  we  have  heard  this  morning,  in  regard  to  the  experience  he  has  had  in 
laboring  among  the  people  of  Arizona  and  New  Mexico,  and  it  might  be  of 


TWO  DAYS'  meetings. 


some  interest  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  have  a  short  sketch  of  my  experience 
during  the  time  I  have  been  absent.  I  have  visited  the  capital  of  the  Republic 
of  Mexico  for  the  purpose  of  preaching  the  gospel  to  the  people  there.  We 
were  courteously  received,  kindly  treated,  had -the  Spirit  of  God  to  be  with 
us  and  the  Lord  to  be  our  Friend;  and  notwithstanding  the  reports  that  have 
been  circulated  through  the  medium  of  the  press,  we  feel  that  a  good  work,  a 
great  work,  will  be  accomplished  in  the  Republic  of  Mexico.  More  than  one" 
half  of  the  entire  population  are  of  the  pure  Indian  stock,  numbering,  I  be- 
lieve, a  little  in  excess  of  five  millions.  They  are  different  in  many  respects 
from  the  Indians  who  roam  in  these  mountain  regions,  having  at  no  time  in 
their  history,  so  far  as  we  can  trace  it,  been  so  steeped  in  ignorance,  slothful- 
ness  and  destitution  as  have  been  the  Indians  in  this  country.  At  the  time 
they  were  subjugated  by  the  Spaniards  under  Cortez,  commencing  in  the  year 
1520,  they  were  to  some  extent  an  enlightened  race  of  people.  They  had  a 
fair  knowledge  of  the  arts  and  sciences,  and  were  particularly  well  versed  in 
architecture;  while  their  notation  of  time  was  quite  equal  to  that  of  any  nation 
then  living.  Their  traditional  history,  as  well  as  their  written  history,  is  very 
interesting,  and  had  it  not  been  for  the  disposition — doubtless  through  igno- 
rance— of  the  Catholic  priests  who  followed  up  the  conquest,  we  might  have 
had  knowledge  that  would  now  be  valuable  to  the  world.  But  as  Cortez  bore 
down  heavily  upon  the  thirty  millions  of  people  who  then  lived  in  what  was 
called  Mexico  proper,  so  the  priests  who  followed  his  camp  bore  heavily  upon 
their  works  of  art,  and  particularly  in  the  destruction  of  their  libraries,  which 
were  burned  in  great  heaps,  while  the  poor  Indians  gathered  round,  and, 
gazing  upon  the  destruction  of  their  treasures,  wept  like  children.  But  there 
has  been  enough  preserved  to  bring  forth  remarkable  historical  evidence  in 
confirmation  of  the  truths  contained  in  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

There  are  many  interesting  things  connected  with  these  historical  works 
that  I  might  mention  if  I  had  time  to  do  so,  but  at  present  I  will  simply  say 
that  their  history  clearly  portrays  that  they  had  a  full  knowledge  of  the  crea- 
tion of  the  earth,  of  the  garden  of  Eden,  the  deluge,  the  ark,  the  tower  of 
Babel,  the  confusion  of  tongues,  and  their  construction  of  eight  boats  in  which 
to  cross  the  great  waters.  They  also  had  a  knowledge  of  the  birth,  ministry 
and  crucifixion  of  the  Savior,  and  a  person  answering  the  description  of  the 
Son  of  Man  was  well  known  in  their  midst.  He  taught  them  the  arts  of  peace, 
and  all  those  higher  elements  of  learning  which  the  Aztecs  were  found  in  pos- 
session of  at  the  time  of  the  conquest.  We  find  that  preceding  the  conquest 
they  were  highly  educated,  highly  instructed  in  the  arts  and  in  some  of  the 
sciences,  and  their  forefathers  had  what  was  called  a  sacred  book.  An  aged  In- 
dian, when  asked  in  reference  to  this  sacred  book  by  one  of  the  early  Catholic 
priests,  replied  that  it  contained  to  some  extent  the  knowledge  that  they,  the 
priests,  sought  to  teach  them;  and  when  asked  where  that  book  was,  the  Indian 
replied  that  they  had  a  tradition  which  had  come  down  from  generation  to 
generation  that  it  was  buried  in  the  earth.  But  I  do  not  wish  to  take  up  time 
this  morning  upon  these  points,  but  desire  to  speak  of  the  Indians  as  we  find 
them  now.  They  are  the  laborers  of  Mexico.  Where  there  are  railroads  con- 
structed, they  construct  them.  Where  there  are  cities  built,  they  build  them. 
They  are  an  industrious  class  of  people,  many  of  them  being  skillful  artisans 


[6 


TWO  DAYS  MEETINGS. 


and  mechanics.  They  are  docile,  slow  to  resent  an  injury,  but  will  remember 
an  act  of  injustice  for  a  long  time.  They  are  true  to  their  promises,  quite  dif- 
ferent in  this  respect  from  many  who  claim  a  higher  civilization.  If  you  can 
secure  their  word  and  their  friendship  they  will  be  true  to  you.  It  is  very 
remarkable  to  notice  in  the  general  cast  of  their  features  the  resemblance  to 
the  Jewish  race,  even  more  striking  than  we  find  it  here  among  our  Indians; 
and  when  crossed  with  the  white  or  Spanish  race,  you  would  almost  in  every 
instance  take  them  to  be  Jews.  Thus,  when  I  first  arrived  in  the  city  of 
Mexico  I  observed  to  a  gentleman,  "You  have  a  great  many  Jews  here." 
"  No,"  said  he,  "  they  are  not  Jews,  they  are  Mexicans."  They  are  a  very 
polite  people.  The  common  Indian  laborer  on  the  street  is  as  polite  as  almost 
any  one  you  meet  in  this  country.  As  to  the  educated  class — such  as  con- 
gressmen, judges,  and  members  of  the  Cabinet,  you  invariably  find  them  well 
informed.  Most  of  them  have  traveled  extensively,  and  many  of  them  speak 
German,  French  and  English,  as  well  as  Spanish.  The  educated  portion  of 
the  Mexicans  are  not  ignorant  with  reference  to  the  history  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  They  have  traced  them  up  from  the  day  of  the  organization  of  the 
church.  They  are  familiar  with  our  wanderings,  our  drivings,  and  our  perse- 
cutions. They  are  also  familiar  with  the  indomitable  courage  which  has  been 
exhibited  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  redeeming  this  barren  waste,  and  as  a 
prominent  Mexican  gentleman  expressed  himself  to  me — "  Why,"  said  he, 
"  you  Mormon  people  have  a  poor  country,  and  yet  you  seem  to  prosper,  while 
we  have  a  very  rich  country,  but  as  a  whole  a  very  poor  people."  This  I  have 
no  doubt  is  mainly  attributable  to  the  nature  of  the  climate.  For  it  has  been 
observed  that  where  God  has  done  much  for  man,  man  does  very  little  for 
himself.  I  believe  this  is  the  case  to  some  extent  in  Mexico.  The  climate  at 
the  capital  does  not,  it  is  said,  vary  more  than  io°  the  year  round.  Thus  they 
have  there  what  you  might  call  perpetual  spring.  The  result  is  that  the  people 
lack  enterprise,  and  therefore  it  would  be  a  delight  to  the  leading  men  of 
Mexico  if  a  population  composed  of  the  Anglo-Saxon  race  could  be  induced 
to  locate  themselves  in  that  country,  in  order  to  develop  its  latent  resources, 
because  the  undeveloped  resources  of  Mexico  are  very  great.  The  mines  are 
not  only  numerous,  but  are  rich.  The  land  is  also  very  productive,  and  is 
capable  of  growing  anything  you  can  name  that  can  be  produced  in  any  other 
part  of  the  world.  We  have  no  climate  here  to  be  compared  with  that  of  the 
Gulf  Coasts  of  Mexico.  I  was  down  there  on  the  14th  of  December;  the 
heat  was  certainly  not  comfortable;  indeed,  it  was  so  intense  that  we  felt  we 
must  at  once  change  our  clothing  and  assume  lighter  garments.  But,  on  leav- 
ing the  city  of  Vera  Cruz  about  eleven  o'clock  in  the  evening,  and  in  passing 
up  to  the  tablelands,  we  found  that  in  a  few  hours  we  required  heavy  over- 
coats in  order  to  keep  us  comfortable.  The  valley  of  Mexico  proper  is  740c 
feet  above  the  level  of  the  sea.  Thus  you  can  see  the  altitude  is  much  greater 
than  ours. 

Referring  to  our  missionary  experience  there,  I  will  say,  when  the  article 
appeared  in  the  New  York  Sun  stating  that  we  had  gone  to  Mexico  to  arrange 
with  the  Mexican  Government  officials  for  the  purchase  of  land  for  the  colo- 
nization of  our  people,  of  course  it  brought  to  us  a  great  many  inquiries,  and 
while  we  had  before  desired  that  we  might  become  acquainted  with  leading 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


17 


men  and  government  officials,  we  had  not  up  to  that  date  had  the  privilege  of 
doing  so.  But  after  the  publication  of  this  article,  Which  was  copied  into  the 
leading  journals  of  the  City  of  Mexico,  we  then  had  numerous  callers,  many 
having  valuable  tracts  of  land  to  sell,  in  which,  as  Colonel  Sellers  would  say, 
"there's  millions  in  it."  Indeed,  one  man  was  anxious  that  we  might  secure 
twenty  million  acres ;  another,  that  we  might  secure  an  entire  State ;  and  they 
exhibited  a  good  deal  of  anxiety  that  we  might  colonize  in  the  Republic.  But 
I  told  them  we  had  no  such  mission,  and  that  indeed  if  we  had  come  to  buy 
we  had  not  yet  seen  sufficient  of  the  country  or  people ;  adding  that  our  mis- 
sion was  to  preach,  and  to  publish  the  word  of  the  Lord  to  the  people.  Through 
the  politeness  of  some  of  these  gentlemen,  we»  became  acquainted  with  many 
influential  officials  and  men  of  eminence,  whose  courtesy  and  kindness  we 
shall  not  soon  forget. 

We  found  on  inquiry  that  the  Mexican  Constitution  was  much  the  same 
as  our  own;  in  some  respects  a  little  more  liberal.    It  guarantees  freedom  of 
the  press,  of  speech,  and  full  religious  toleration.    It  recognizes  churches  as 
no  portion  of  the  governmental  power;  while  all  are  free  to  preach  in  their 
houses  of  worship,  they  are  not  free  to  perform  religious  ceremonies  in  the 
open  streets,  highways,  or  market  places.    The  act  prohibiting  any  manifesta- 
tion of  religious  worship  on  the  public  highways  and'streets  was  caused  to  be 
passed  by  the  late  President,  Juarez — who  was  a  pure-blooded  Indian,  there 
being  not  a  drop  of  white  blood  in  his  veins.    He  was  a  great  statesman  and  a 
thorough  soldier.    His  name  will  pass  down  into  history  as  being  a  great 
benefactor  of  his  race  and  people.    He  was  a  liberal-minded  man,  whose 
heart  beat  for  the  highest  human  liberty.    Being  a  foe  to  tyranny  in  every 
form,  he  traced  the  sufferings  of  Mexico  very  clearly,  and  comprehended  that 
they  were  mainly  traceable  to  the  influence  which  the  clergy  exercised  over  the 
minds  of  the  people.    From  this  thraldom  he  labored  with  all  his  might  to  free 
his  race,  and  sought  to  place  them  upon  the  solid  basis  of  civil  and  religious 
liberty.    Now  the  churches  are  entirely  free  to  perform  their  ordinances  within 
the  walls  of  their  buildings;  but  there  was  a  time  when,  if  a  Catholic  priest 
should  happen  to  be  moving  along  the  street  in  his  robes,  the  people  were  re- 
quired to  bow  down.    It  was  the  oppression  and  not  the  rights  of  religious 
powers  that  Juarez  sought  to  crush,  and  he  succeeded.    The  second  Judge  of 
the  Supreme  Court  of  the  Republic,  who  was  for  a  number  of  years  the  lead- 
ing man  in  the  House  of  Representatives,  predicted  about  ten  years  ago  that 
the  clergy  in  that  land  must  be  tolerant,  and  follow  in  the  future,  better  than 
they  had  done  in  the  past,  the  examples  of  the  lowly  Nazarene,  or  they  would 
have  to  march  out  of  Mexico  by  thousands.    That  prediction — although  it 
may  not  have  been  looked  upon  as  such  at  the  time — was  noticed  by  some 
eminent  writers,  and  has  been  literally  fulfilled.    The  clergy  have,  as  I  have 
been  informed,  had  to  leave  in  great  numbers.    Nunneries  have  been  abolished, 
and  churches  have  been  sold  by  hundreds,  so  that  in  the  space  of  a  few  years 
$200,000,000  have  been  confiscated  in  this  way.    God  has  moved  in  the  midst 
of  the  nation,  and  I  believe  a  great  work  will  be  performed  among  the  rem- 
nants of  the  House  of  Israel  in  that  land.    The  power  of  God  in  the  mani- 
festation of  their  faith  is  greater  perhaps  than  you  will  find  among  some  of 

the  Anglo-Saxon  race.    It  is  true,  they  have  been  under  bondage  for  nearly 
2 


iS 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


400  years.  They  may  see  the  power  of  God  made  manifest  to-day,  in  the 
healing  of  their  infirmities,  and  to-morrow  forget  the  blessings  of  the  Lord. 
But  in  that  respect  wherein  are  they  different  from  the  children  of  Israel?  Did 
they  not  witness  the  power  of  God  in  the  separation  of  the  waters  of  the  Red 
Sea,  and  in  various  other  ways?  Did  they  not  hear  the  voice  of  the  Lord, 
and  yet  longed  for  the  leeks  and  onions,  and  threatened  to  do  evil  to  their 
leader,  Moses? 

In  this  regard  the  Mexican  people  are  much  the  same.  They  have 
ideas,  ways  and  manners,  peculiar  to  themselves.  They  are  in  their  ex- 
pressions very  kind,  and  wherever  we  met  influential  men — men  connected 
with  the  Government  of  Mexico — we  met  with  uniform  kindness.  Our  recep- 
tion was  warm  and  genuine,  and  we  felt  to  bless  such  people.  We  believe 
that  the  Lord  will  yet  open  up  the  way  by  which  thousands  and  hundreds  of 
thousands  will  receive  a  knowledge  of  the  truth.  We  have  baptized  some 
twenty  in  that  land,  and  have  a  little  branch  already  formed,  and  the  manifes- 
tations of  the  power  of  God  among  them  are  not  wanting.  The  second  mem- 
ber baptized  into  the  branch  is  an  Indian.  It  is  very  clear  that  he  is  of  the 
House  of  Israel.  After  he  was  ordained  to  the  office  of  an  Elder,  he  began 
to  read,  to  some  extent,  our  works.  He  was  very  much  interested  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  so  far  as  it  Ls  published  in  the  Spanish  language,  and  he  has  full 
faith  in  the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel.  One  day  a  woman  was  found  in  the 
street  suffering  under  the  influence  of  an  evil  spirit,  being  sadly  deranged. 
The  police  were  seeking  to  allay  her  feelings  and  quiet  her,  while  a  great 
crowd  was  attracted  by  the  occurrence.  The  Indian  happened  to  be.  there  at 
the  time,  and,  perceiving  what  was  the  matter,  made  his  way  through  the 
crowd  to  the  woman,  and  in  the  name  of  Jesus  rebuked  the  evil  spirit,  where- 
upon she  was  quieted,  and,  to  the  astonishment  of  the  people,  walked  away 
without  uttering  another  word. 

Before  closing  my  remarks  it  might  be  somewhat  interesting  to  the  con- 
gregation to  learn  the  cause  which  led  to  sending  the  Elders  to  the  city  of 
Mexico.  I  will  tell  you  briefly  how  it  occurred.  There  is  a  Dr.  Rhodacanaty, 
who  is,  I  believe,  a  Greek  on  the  side  of  his  father  and  a  Mexican  on  the  side 
of  his  mother.  He  had  been  engaged  in  a  socialistic  work,  having  for  its  ob- 
ject the  benefitting  of  the  poorer  classes — seeking  to  organize  a  system,  in  some 
respects  like  our  co-operative  system  here,  for  the  intelligent  direction  of 
labor,  and,  having  used  his  influence  in  this  direction  for  a  short  time,  he  be- 
came perplexed,  and  his  mind  seemed  to  close  down,  so  that  he  could  not  see 
how  to  make  further  progress.  He  therefore  felt  to  pray  to  the  Lord  to  give 
him  wisdom  to  proceed.  During  the  night  he  dreamed  that  a  person  came  and 
presented  to  him  a  book,  pressing  it  emphatically  upon  his  forehead.  On  the 
following  day,  while  teaching  his  class  in  the  college,  wherein  he  was  Greek 
Professor,  a  little  boy  entered  and  asked  him  to  buy  a  book.  "  No,"  said  he 
to  the  boy,  "  I  do  not  want  your  book."  "  But,"  says  the  boy,  "  you  do  want 
this  book,  and  it  is  only  a  riel"  (twelve  and  a  half  cents).  He  told  the  boy 
again  that  he  did  not  want  the  book,  but  the  boy  still  insisted  that  he  did,  and 
finally  he  took  it.  When  he  came  to  read  the  book,  it  proved  to  be  that  part 
of  the  Book  cf  Mormon  which  has  been  translated  into  the  Spanish  language. 
From  this  time  he  received  light  daily,  and  finally  communicated  with  Presi- 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


dent  Taylor,  and  the  result  was  that  the  Elders  were  sent  and  the  mission  was- 
opened  in  Mexico. 

I  will  relate  another  circumstance  to  show  you  how  the  wisdom  of  tfsse- 
Lord  is  greater  than  that  of  man.  We  became  acquainted  with  Professes- 
Sherwin,  an  American  from  the  State  of  Iowa,  who  was  also  teaching  in  tEre- 
Presbyterian  College,  and  who  frequently  visited  us  at  our  rooms.  When  wit 
had  prepared  the  "Voice  of  Warning"  in  manuscript  for  publication  he  de- 
sired that  the  Presbyterians  should  have  a  chance  to  bid  for  the  printing  of  ft_ 
Elder  Stewart  told  him  that  they  would  not  print  the  work.  "  Why,"  said  Iie„ 
"they  surely  will  not  carry  prejudice  into  business  matters."  "  Well,"  repIfeS 
Brother  S.,  "to  please  you  we  will  give  them  a  chance  to  bid  on  the  work,  IraS. 
I  am  satisfied  that  they  will  absolutely  refuse  to  publish  anything  about  cMor— 
monism.'  "  He  went  to  the  printing  establishment  and  offered  the  work.  T&e- 
young  men  who  had  charge  of  the  printing  office  readily  assented  to  bid  upoe 
the  work,  and  asked  until  the  next  evening,  in  order  that  they  might  bid  intel- 
ligently. In  the  meantime  they  submitted  the  matter  to  the  head  of  the  Pres- 
byterian and  other  churches,  (for  there  they  work  together — Presbyterians, 
Baptists  and  Methodists),  and  when  the  matter  was  submitted  to  the  Bishop, 
he  scouted  the  very  idea,  and  said  we  had  not  money  enough  to  hire  them  t© 
print  our  works.  The  young  men  were  astonished,  and  desired  to  see  us  ice 
reference  to  such  prejudice.  They  came  and  we' talked  with  them,. saying  that 
it  was  because  of  the  ignorance  of  the  world  in  reference  to  us  and  the  princi- 
ples we  advocated,  that  caused  much  of  the  prejudice  which  existed  in  the  min«£s. 
of  many  who  neither  knew  us  nor  the  object  of  our  mission.  We  pointed  oust 
to  them  different  texts  of  Scripture,  and  read  from  the  Bible  for  some  lengtfe 
of  time.  After  we  had  talked  with  them  an  hour  or  two  they  desired  us  tc* 
pray  with  them,  to  which  we  readily  assented.  Closing  the  door  of  our  roons,. 
we  gave  these  two  young  men  a  chance  to  pray;  and  they  did  so,  asking  tike- 
Lord,  if  they  had  been  deceived  all  the  days  of  their  lite,  to  manifest  it  andt 
to  impart  to  them  a  testimony  as  to  whether  we  spoke  by  the  power  of  the- 
Holy  Ghost  or  by  the  wisdom  of  man,  and  that  they  might  know  by  revelations 
for  themselves  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ.  We  endorsed  their  prayer,  andE 
prayed  the  Almighty  most  earnestly  that  they  might  have  eyes  to  see,  ears  tcs> 
hear,  and  hearts  to  understand  the  truth  which  we  sought  to  impart.  The  last 
we  heard  of  these  two  young  men  was  that  they  were  preaching  "Mormonism,'r 
and  were  in  a  fair  way  to  convert  themselves  if  not  others. 

As  another  instance  of  the  hatred  shown  towards  the  "  Mormons,"  I  might 
mention  that  there  was  a  young  friend  who  crossed  the  Gulf  of  Mexico  witia 
us,  being  in  company  with  the  nephew  of  the  American  Minister,  Mr.  Foster^ 
and  who  remained  in  Mexico  with  us  several  weeks.  This  young  friend  of 
ours  met  a  Methodist  Minister  one  day  in  the  streets  of  Mexico,  and  happened? 
to  mention  that  there  were  "  Mormon  "  missionaries  in  the  city.  c"  Oh,  yes."  safd1, 
the  devout  Minister,  "and  I  would  to  God  that  the  American  Government 
would  drive  all  the  "Mormons"  into  the  bottom  of  the  sea."  I  simply  mention 
these  matters  to  show  how  ungenerous  and  uncharitable  are  the  feelings  of 
many  religious  denominations,  or  the  members  thereof,  towards  us  as  a  people. 
They  may  never  have  known  a  "  Mormon,"  they  may  never  have  met  one ;  the>- 
certainly  have  received  no  unkindness  at  the  hands  of  our  people,  and  they 


20 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


have  never  placed  themselves  in  a  position  to  receive  the  courtesies  of  the 
people.  I  believe  that  as  a  general  thing  where  men,  influential,  intelligent 
and  honest  men,  have  visited  Salt  Lake  City,  or  other  parts  of  the  Territory, 
they  have  almost  invariably  spoken  kindly  of  the  "Mormon"  people.  I  of  course 
except  a  certain  class,  namely,  those  who  make  it  their  mission  to  persecute, 
hate  and  despise  us— such  men  of  course  exhibit  bitterness ;  deprive  them  of 
that  and  there  would  be  little  left  of  them.  But  the  best  thing  we  can  do  is  to 
pass  them  by.  In  doing  so  I  do  not  know  that  we  can  say  in  their  case  what 
the  Lord  said  to  the  Jews,  "Father,  forgive  them,  they  know  not  what  they 
do."  I  fear  many  of  them  too  well  know  what  they  do ;  but  they  have  their 
mission,  let  them  fill  it.  As  an  individual,  I  do  not  feel  that  we  can  afford  to 
bestow  much  time  or  attention  to  what  such  may  do  or  say.  I  learned  one 
thing  during  my  early  boyhood,  and  that  is  that  I  cannot  hate  man  and  at  the 
same  time  love  God ;  therefore  I  pay  little  attention  to  what  those  evil  dis- 
posed persons  may  do.  They  are  in  the  hands  of  the  Almighty,  who  will  meet 
to  them  a  just  punishment.    Let  us  pity  rather  than  despise  them. 

This  I  know,  God  will  establish  his  Kingdom  and  carry  it  off  victorious ; 
he  will  redeem  his»people  and  make  Zion  to  shine.  But  when  I  think  of  the 
benighted  condition  which  the  nations  are  in,  it  fills  my  heart  with  sorrow.  I 
feel  to  thank  God  that  he  has  placed  in  our  hearts  these  compassionate  feel- 
ings. To  us  he  has  been  compassionate,  and  filled  us  with  tender  mercy. 
Therefore  it  becomes  our  duty  as  Elders  to  go  to  the  ends  of  the  earth  to 
preach  the  Gospel.  To  the  Lamanites?  Yes;  to  every  part  of  the  habitable 
globe,  to  say  to  every  people  that  we  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  he 
only  can  say  this  truthfully  who  has  the  spirit  of  prophecy  upon  him,  because 
as  it  is  written,  "the  testimony  of  Jesus  is  the  spirit  of  prophecy."  Let  us 
then  make  it  the  mission  of  our  lives  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  the  nations  of 
the  earth,  to  extend  to  them  this  knowledge  which  has  made  us  so  happy,  and 
which  has  made  us  the  people  that  we  are. 

There  will  be  a  great  work  accomplished  in  Mexico.  I  feel  that  the  La- 
manites in  that  land  will  receive  the  Gospel  by  thousands.  God  will  give 
them  the  power  to  heal  the  sick,  unstop  the  eyes  of  the  blind,  and  to  open  the 
ears  of  those  that  are  deaf.  He  will  manifest  himself  unto  them  as  he  did  to 
their  forefathers,  the  children  of  Israel.  They  have  been  downtrodden  for 
more  than  three  hundred  years.  They  filled  the  cup  of  their  iniquity,  and 
thirty  millions  of  them  were  killed  off  in  about  forty  years.  He  permitted 
this  to  come  upon  them  because  of  their  iniquity  and  the  sin  of  their  fathers 
in  slaying  the  prophets.  The  Spanish  nation  was  once  a  great  nation,  but  God 
has  humbled  them.  In  the  work  of  death  that  nation  filled  a  fearful  mission 
among  the  Indians  of  Mexico  and  Peru,  since  when  they  have  been  treading 
the  downward  track.  To-day  what  is  Spain?  A  fallen,  broken,  Catholic- 
ridden  nation  that  cannot  understand  the  whisperings  of  the  Spirit  of  God. 
But  the  remnant  of  Israel  will  come  forth  and  manifest  that  they  have  faith  in 
their  forefathers,  who  knew  Jesus,  and  when  their  children  hear  his  voice  a 
stranger  they  will  not  follow. 

May  God  bless  the  mission  in  Mexico,  and  the  poor  Indians  whom  our 
own  great  nation  has  .seemed  determined  to  exterminate,  but  who  will  yet 
arise  and  prove  to  the  world  their  worth.    May  God  bless  them  to  this  end. 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


21 


We  have  no  mission  save  that  of  peace.  We  do  not  go  to  teach  them  the 
art  of  war,  although  many  of  them  are  soldiers.  You  can  frequently  see  the 
streets  of  Mexico  crowded  with  well  drilled  Indian  regiments,  but  our  mission 
to  them  or  others  is  not  war,  it  is  peace  and  good  will  to  all.  And  may  the 
Lord  give  us  power  to  extend  this  to  them,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

The  choir  sang  an  anthem. 

Elder  Charles  C.  Rich  dismissed  with  prayer. 


2    P.  M. 

In  the  afternoon  the  Hall  was  densely  packed,  and  hundreds  went  away 
disappointed,  not  being  able  to  enter  the  building. 
Singing  by  the  choir. 
Prayer  by  Counselor  Daniel  H.  Wells. 

ELDER   OESON  PBATT. 

It  is  many  months  since  I  attempted,  except  on  one  occasion,  to  address  a 
public  congregation.  On  account  of  ill  health  and  other  circumstances,  I  have 
refrained  from  public  speaking,  except  at  the  former  meeting  held  in  this  house 
last  winter.  I  do  not  know  whether  I  shall  be  able  to  raise  my  voice  to  that 
loudness  that  the  congregation  will  be  able  to  understand;  I  will,  however,  do 
the  best  that  I  can.  I  pray  my  Father  in  heaven  to  pour  out  his  Spirit  upon 
me,  that  what  I  may  say — whether  it  be  a  few  words  or  many — may  be  indited 
by  the  gift  and  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  without  which  all  our  preaching 
is  in  vain. 

I  certainly,  for  one,  was  very  much  instructed  in  our  forenoon  meeting, 
especially  in  regard  to  the  remarks  of  the  first  speaker  on  the  fiftieth  anniver- 
sary since  the  organization  of  this  church ;  and  I  was  also  very  much  instructed 
in  the  remarks  made  by  the  following  speaker. 

It  is  a  great  delight  to  me,  as  an  individual,  to  look  forth  upon  the  large 
congregations  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  are  assembled  from  time  to  time 
in  these  mountains,  in  the  capacity  of  a  General  Conference.  In  all  these 
assemblies  and  conferences  I  remember  the  early  rise  of  this  church;  I  re- 
member when  we  were  a  small  people,  when  we  could  assemble  ourselves  in  a 
very  small  room,  and  that  in  General  Conference.  I  remember  the  first  Con- 
ference that  I  attended,  on  the  2d  day  of  January,  1831,  consisting  perhaps  of 
some  seventy  or  eighty  members  in  all,  assembled  in  the  house  of  Father 
Whitmer,  whose  sons  were  chosen  to  be  especial  witnesses  in  relation  to  this 
great  latter-day  work.  I  remember  our  trials,  our  difficulties,  our  gathering, 
our  persecutions,  our  afflictions,  more  or  less,  from  that  day  until  the  present 
time.  Then  I  was  but  a  boy  nineteen  years  of  age ;  now  I  am  over  sixty-eight, 
and  in  a  few  months  more  fifty  years  will  have  passed  over  my  head  since  I 
was  first  baptized  into  this  church.    How  thankful  I  ought  to  be  that  I  am  still 


22 


TWO  DAYS'  MEETINGS. 


living.  How  thankful  I  ought  to  be  that  I  am  still  numbered  with  this  people. 
How  thankful.  I  ought  to  be  that  I  have  the  opportunity  and  privilege  of  ad- 
ministering in  your  public  congregations,  preaching  the  words  of  eternal  life, 
lifting  up  my  voice  in  humble  testimony  concerning  the  great  work  which  the 
Lord  our  God  has  been  doing  during  the  last  fifty  years. 

Among  the  ancient  Jewish  nation  in  the  land  of  Palestine  there  was  a 
law  ordained  in  relation  to  the  fiftieth  year.  Every  fiftieth  year  was  to  be  a 
peculiar  year  in  the  midst  of  that  nation.  There  were  many  special  times  set 
apart  by  the  Almighty,  as  times  that  were  symbolical  in  their  nature ;  times 
laving  reference  to  the  future,  among  which  was  the  cultivation  of  the  earth 
for  six  years,  and  on  the  seventh  year  the  land  was  made  to  rest.  The  tribes 
<©f  Israel  cultivated  the  soil,  but  they  were  required  on  the  seventh  year  to  let 
the  whole  land  rest.  I  presume  that  the  Lord  had  in  view  several  things  to  be 
-symibolized  by  these  six  years  of  labor  and  the  resting  on  the  seventh.  This 
a©  doubt  had  a  reference  to  the  creation  of  the  heavens  and  the  earth,  so  that 
ike  Israelites  might  keep  in  remembrance  the  great  work  which  was  accom- 
plished by  the  Lord  our  God  in  the  beginning — the  formation  or  organization 
of  the  temporal  heavens  over  our  heads,  and  also  of  the  earth  upon  which  we 
^stand.  By  resting  on  the  seventh  year  from  all  their  labors,  they  symbolized 
tfeat  which  existed,  or  took  place,  when  the  seventh  period  or  time  came  round 
in  the  creation.  In  six  days,  we  are  informed,  this  great  work  of  creation  was 
performed,  at  least  so  far  as  the  spiritual  portion  thereof  was  concerned.  On 
•the  seventh  day,  we  are  informed  by  new  revelation,  as  well  as  instructed  in 
part  by  old  revelation,  that  the  Lord  rested.  He  did  not  commence  resting,  as 
ssome  have  supposed,  on  the  sixth  day  evening,  neither  at  midnight,  nor  early 
-®n  the  seventh  day,  because  there  was  a  certain  work  to  be  performed  on  the 
seventh  day,  which  the  Lord  delayed  until  that  time.  On  the  seventh  day  the 
Lord  formed  the  garden  of  Eden,  planted  the  trees  of  that  garden,  laid  out  the 
work,  beautified  it,  and  also  placed  man  in  the  garden,  having  formed  his  fleshly 
Sabernacle,  which  was  also  the  work  of  the  morning  of  the  seventh  day,  and 
"fee  has  informed  us  that  on  the  morning  of  that  day  there  was  no  flesh  upon 
the  earth  except  the  man  whom  he  had  formed  and  placed  in  the  garden.  Yet 
all  the  children  of  men  were  created  the  day  previous,  or  the  period  previous, 
called  the  sixth  day,  so  that  they  all  existed ;  but  the  Lord  says  "  in  heaven 
created  I  them."  They  were  not  created  here  upon  the  earth,  but  they  were 
•  created  in  heaven ;  but  on  the  seventh  day  man  was  placed  here  upon  the 
earth,  having  a  tabernacle  of  flesh  and  bones.  So  says  the  new  translation, 
or  that  portion  thereof  contained  in  this  book,  called  the  "  Pearl  of  Great 
Price."  I  have  oftentimes  thought,  when  reading  these  revelations,  that  they 
typified  something ;  or  that  the  Lord  would  not  fully  accomplish  his  work  in 
six  thousand  years  preparatory  to  the  day  of  rest,  but  intended,  on  his  part,  to 
do  something  on  the  morning  of  the  seventh  thousand  years,  just  as  he  did  in 
Hie  beginning.  Was  the  spirit  of  man  placed  on  the  earth  in  a  body  of  flesh 
and  bones  on  the  morning  of  the  seventh  day  of  the  creation?  He  was. 
What  was  that  typical  of?  Typical  of  the  resurrection,  when  the  righteous 
wall  again  have  fleshly  tabernacles,  formed,  as  in  the  beginning,  out  of  the 
-.dmst  of  the  earth ;  when  they  will  come  forth  from  the  grave  with  immortal 
'foodies.    These  bodies  will  be  flesh  and  bones,  like  unto  the  bodies  of  the  first 


TWO  DAYS'  meetings. 


23 


pair  that  were  formed  on  the  morning  of  the  seventh  day.  Was  the  first  man 
immortal?  He  was.  Will  those  who  shall  be  resurrected,  or  formed  from  the 
dust  of  the  grave,  in  the  morning  of  the  seventh  thousand  years,  also  be  im- 
mortal? They  will;  the  one  being  typical  of  the  other.  Was  there  any  curse 
upon  the  earth  when  the  first  man  was  permitted  to  occupy  it  with  a  body  of 
flesh  and  bones?  There  was  not.  There  was  no  death;  indeed,  man  was 
"the  first  flesh  upon  the  earth,  the  first  man  also."  There  were  no  beasts  on 
the  earth,  no  fowls  to  fly  in  the  firmament  of  heaven,  no  fish  to  swim  in  the 
sea.  But  you  may  ask,  how  is  this?  Do  we  not  read  that  on  the  fifth  day  God 
created  great  whales,  fish  of  all  kinds  that  could  swim  in  the  sea,  &c?  Yes. 
How  was  it,  then,  that  there  was  no  flesh  on  the  earth,  neither  in  the  sea,  on 
the  seventh  day  till  man  was  placed  there?  All  that  we  need  in  reconciling 
the  two  chapters  is  to  understand  the  two  creations.  Everything  was  created 
first  spiritual.  The  fish  that  swim  in  the  waters  were  first  made  spiritual.  The 
fowls  that  fly  in  the  open  firmament  of  the  heavens,  that  were  created  also  on 
the  fifth  day,  were  made  spiritual.  Their  spirits  existed  and  were  formed; 
but  God  saw  proper  that  on  the  seventh  day  the  first  flesh  that  should  be  on 
the  earth  should  be  man.  Afterwards,  out  of  the  ground  the  Lord  God  made 
the  beasts  of  the  field  and  every  creeping  thing,  and  cattle,  and  every  beast 
after  his  kind;  that  is,  in  the  beginning,  the  first  pairs  were  formed  and  placed 
upon  this  new  creation,  not  before,  but  after  man  was  placed  here.  Is  this 
typical  of  anything?  Yes;  typical  of  the  resurrection  of  beasts  as  well  as  of 
man,  according  to  the  revelations  contained  here  in  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants.  Everything  to  which  the  Lord  has  granted  life  will  be  brought 
forth  in  its  time  and  in  its  season,  be  resurrected,  receive  its  body,  and  the 
spirits  of  beasts,  and  the  spirits  of  fowls,  and  the  spirits  of  fish  and  all  ani- 
mated beings  will  receive  their  bodies  in  the  resurrection,  and  be  made  im- 
mortal, as  they  were  on  the  morning  of  the  seventh  day;  the  one  being  typical 
of  the  other.  This  is  one  thing,  no  doubt,  that  the  Lord  intended  to  symbol- 
ize, in  order  to  keep  in  remembrance  before  the  minds  of  the  children  of  Is- 
rael concerning  that  first  great  work  of  his,  "firstly  spiritual,  and  secondly 
temporal,  which  was  the  beginning  of  his  work." 

Another  thing  intended  to  be  typified  by  this  seventh  year,  wherein  the 
land  was  commanded  to  rest,  was  to  show  forth  the  future,  to  show  forth  the 
last  of  his  work,  which  will  be  "firstly  temporal  and  secondly  spiritual,"  being 
the  last  of  his  work  pertaining  to  this  creation.  But  unto  himself  there  is  no 
beginning  nor  end  of  his  works,  neither  to  his  words.  Two  great  and  impor- 
tant things  were,  therefore,  symbolized  by  these  ordinances  which  the  children 
of  Israel  were  required  to  observe  throughout  their  generations,  namely,  the 
great  future  of  this  creation,  commencing  with  the  great  temporal  work  in  the 
morning  of  the  seventh  thousand  years,  wherein  everything  will  be  restored  to 
its  proper  condition,  as  it  was  in  the  animal  creation,  with  the  fowls  and  fish 
and  beasts,  and  man  on  the  morning  of  the  seventh  day  of  creation. 

Prior  to  this  time,  or  during  this  period  of  time,  wherein  this  second  tem- 
poral work  will  commence,  there  will  be  a  literal  sounding  of  seven  trumpets, 
as  recorded  in  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  page  278,  electrotype  edi- 
tion, which  you  can  read  at  your  leisure.  I  will  give  you  the  words  of  the 
revelation,  so  that  you  can  read  it  when  you  go  home.    It  is  called  the  "Key 


=4 


TWO  DAYS'  meetings. 


to  the  revelations  given  to  St.  John  on  Patmos."  Joseph,  inquiring  of  the 
Lord  about  the  sounding  of  the  seven  trumpets,  is  informed  that  the  sounding 
would  take  place,  not  directly  near  the  close  of  the  six  thousand  years,  or 
rather  not  during  the  period  of  the  six  thousand  years,  but  after  the  seventh 
thousand  years  should  commence.  He  says  that  the  sounding  of  the  seven 
trumpets  typifies  this:  "That  as  God  made  the  world  in  six  days,  and  on  the 
seventh  day  he  finished  his  work,  and  sanctified  it,  and  also  formed  man  out  of 
the  dust  of  the  earth;  even  so,  in  the  beginning  of  the  seventh  thousand  years 
will  the  Lord  God  sanctify  the  earth  and  complete  the  salvation  of  man,  and 
judge  all  things,  and  shall  redeem  all  things*  except  that  which  he  has  not  put 
into  his  power,  when  he  shall  have  sealed  all  things,  unto  the  end  of  all  things; 
and  the  sounding  of  the  trumpets  of  the  seven  angels  are  the  preparing  and 
finishing  of  his  work,  in  the  beginning  of  the  seventh  thousand  years;  the 
preparing  of  the  way  before  the  time  of  his  coming."  Thus  we  see,  that  as 
man  in  the  beginning  "was  formed  out  of  the  dust  of  the  earth"  "on  the 
seventh  day,"  in  his  immortal  state,  so  he  shall  be  brought  forth  in  the  resur- 
rection from  the  dust  of  the  grave,  on  the  morning  of  the  seventh  thousand 
years,  by  the  sounding  of  these  trumpets,  to  inherit  certain  blessings,  even  as 
it  was  promised  in  the  beginning. 

We  perceive,  therefore,  from  the  revelations  of  God,  that  the  Lord  insti- 
tuted these  ordinances  and  laws  for  the  children  of  Israel  for  a  double  purpose, 
not  only  to  commemorate  the  past,  but  to  keep  in  the  vivid  remembrance  of 
the  children  of  Israel  the  great  future,  which  they  were  never  to  lose  .sight  of. 

Moreover,  they  were  not  only  required,  in  the  days  of  ancient  Israel,  to  let 
their  lands  remain  uncultivated  in  the  seventh  year,  and  to  rest,  but  the  Lord 
also,  in  order  to  doubly  fix  this  idea  upon  their  minds,  established  what  is 
termed  a  year  of  Jubilee.  After  seven  times  seven  years  had  passed  away — 
that  is,  forty-nine  years — then  came  the  fiftieth  year,  which  seemed  to  be 
above  all  the  rest,  so  far  as  the  observance  thereof  was  concerned,  and  so  far 
as  certain  duties  were  required  at  their  hands.  It  was  to  be  a  year  of  rest,  a 
year  of  jubilee —  a  year  wherein  all  real  estate  that  had  been  sold  during  the 
past  fifty  years  was  to  return  again  to  the  original  owners.  They  could  not 
sell  their  lands  as  we  sell  ours;  that  was  not  permitted;  no  man  could  sell  his 
land  in  that  time  for  fifty-one,  fifty-two,  nor  one  hundred  years,  nor  to  the 
people  and  their  heirs  forever.  No  such  thing  existed  in  those  days  as  now 
exist  in  this  and  among  other  nations ;  their  lands  could  only  be  sold  for  fifty 
years ;  then  came  the  year  of  redemption,  wherein  all  lands  that  were  sold 
were  to  return  to  their  original  owners,  or  to  the  tribe,  or  their  descendants,  as 
the  case  might  be ;  it  matters  not  who  bought  it  or  paid  for  it,  that  was  always 
understood  in  the  deed  of  sale.  It  was  the  custom  in  those  ancient  times  to 
purchase  individuals  for  a  certain  term  of  years,  in  consequence  of  debts,  &c, 
that  they  may  have  contracted;  they  would  buy  the  people,  not  exactly  as  hired 
servants,  but  they  were  compelled,  according  to  the  laws  of  the  nation,  to  re- 
main in  servitude  for  a  certain  period  of  time ;  but  that  period  never  extended 
beyond  the  year  of  Jubilee.  When  that  notable  year  came,  all  those  hand- 
maidens and  servants  that  may  have  been  sold  in  consequence  of  the  debts 
that  they  had  contracted,  were  to  go  free ;  all  had  the  promise  of  liberty.  It 
was  a  year  of  general  release  from  bondage.    There  are  a  great  many  other 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


25 


privileges  that  might  be  named,  set  forth  in  the  revelations  of  God,  that  existed 
in  the  year  of  Jubilee.  Whether  such  a  year  will  again  be  established  by  reve- 
lation, I  do  not  certainly  know;  whether  the  Lord  will  command  his  servants  to 
commemorate  past  events  by  the  establishment  of  such  a  custom,  in  a  time  to 
come,  is  not  fully  revealed.  It  is  revealed,  however,  in  part,  so  that  we  may 
draw  some  conclusions  from  what  has  been  revealed  in  ancient  times.  Moses 
says,  by  the  word  of  the  Lord,  that  when  that  people,  Israel,  should  corrupt 
themselves  before  the  heavens,  and  should  do  after  the  manner  of  the  abomi- 
nations of  the  heathen  nations  round  about — should  forget  the  Lord  their  God, 
should  bow  down  to  the  idols  of  the  heathen  nations,  and  turn  away  from  the 
Lord,  that  he  would  send  certain  curses  upon  them,  and  among  those  curses 
they  were  to  be  scattered  to  the  uttermost  parts  of  the  earth,  &c,  as  mentioned 
in  the  28th  chapter  of  Deuteronomy.  A  long  list  of  plagues  is  given  that 
should  follow  them  among  all  the  nations  whither  they  should  be  driven.  After 
they  had  experienced  all  these  things,  Moses  says:  "When  thou  shalt  return 
unto  the  Lord  thy  God,  and  shall  obey  his  voice,  according  to  all  that  I  com- 
mand thee  this  day,  thou  and  thy  children,  with  all  thy  heart  and  with  all  thy 
soul;  that  then  the  Lord  thy  God  will  turn  thy  captivity,  and  have  compassion 
upon  thee,  and  will  return  and  gather  thee  from  all  the  nations,  whither  the 
Lord  thy  God  hath  scattered  thee.  If  any  of  thine  be  driven  out  unto  the  ut- 
most parts  of  heaven,  from  thence  will  the  Lord  thy  God  gather  thee,  and 
from  thence  will  he  fetch  thee:  And  the  Lord  thy  God  will  bring  thee  unto  the 
land  which  thy  fathers  possessed,  and  thou  shalt  possess  it,  and  he  will  do 
thee  good  and  multiply  thee  above  thy  fathers."  Now,  notice  the  conditions 
of  this  gathering:  "And  shall  obey  his  voice  according  to  all  that  I  com- 
mand thee  this  day."  What  were  they  commanded  in  that  day?  Among  other 
things  they  were  commanded  to  keep  the  year  of  Jubilee;  to  keep  a  great  many 
other  ordinances,  such  as  the  seventh  year  to  let  their  land  rest;  also  to  keep 
certan  feasts,  such  as  the  feast  of  tabernacles  and  the  passover;  and  many 
other  things,  all  of  which  were  commanded  in  that  day,  and  in  that  age,  by  the 
mouth  of  the  servant  of  God,  even  Moses ;  when  they  should  remember  all 
these  things,  even  every  commandment,  not  neglecting  one,  then  the  Lord 
their  God,  should  permit  them  to  enjoy  all  the  blessings  of  the  promised  land. 
I  draw  the  conclusion,  from  this  saying,  that  there  will  be  a  time  when  Israel 
shall  return  to  their  own  lands,  and  that  they  will  again  keep  the  year  of  jubi- 
lee; I  draw  the  conclusion  that  they  will  also  offer  up,  as  it  is  written  in  the 
Scriptures,  offerings  to  the  Lord;  that  they  will  keep  all  the  commandments 
given  unto  them  through  the  servant  of  God,  even  Moses.  How  long  these 
institutions,  given  to  Moses,  will  be  observed;  how  long  they  will  be  com- 
pelled or  required  to  give  heed  to  that  which  he  commanded  them,  through 
Moses,  I  do  not  know.  The  time  may  come,  when  they  prove  to  the  Lord 
that  they  can  keep  those  commandments  and  do  his  will — the  time  may  come 
when  some  of  these  ordinances  may  be  done  away. 

But  because  such  events  may  happen  among  Israel  in  their  great  future,  is 
no  evidence  that  we,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  should  institute  any  of  these  things 
among  ourselves,  unless  we  are  directed  by  divine  revelation  from  the  heav- 
ens. I  do  not  know  that  we  are  under  any  obligations  to  keep  any  of  the  ordi- 
nances, rites,  and  ceremonies,  that  were  given  in  the  days  of  Moses,  unless 


26 


TWO  DAYS'  MEETINGS 


we  receive  direct  revelation  for  ourselves  in  relation  to  these  matters.  If  the 
Lord  should,  at  some  future  period  of  the  history  of  this  Curch,  see  proper  to 
give  us  a  commandment  to  keep  every  fiftieth  year  sacred  unto  him,  in  order 
to  commemorate  certain  events  that  took  place  in  the  past,  I  think  that  this 
people  will  be  ready  and  willing  to  obey  such  a  commandment. 

Among  Israel,  in  ancient  days,  they  had  the  law  of  plurality  of  marriage. 
Did  we  adopt  that  in  this  Church  from  these  old,  ancient  commandments?  No, 
we  did  not.  Did  that  give  us  any  authority  in  the  least?  No;  the  laws 
given  to  Moses  have  no  bearing  upon  us,  unless  God  should  renew  his  com- 
mandments and  laws  to  us  as  a  people;  for  we  profess,  like  Israel  of  old,  to 
be  under  the  direction  and  guidance  of  new  revelation.  Like  the  Church  of 
God  in  all  former  ages,  we  receive  no  new  ordinances,  neither  old  ordinances, 
only  by  new  revelation.  Did  we  presume  to  baptize  with  water  on  the  author- 
ity of  old  revelation?  No.  Did  we  presume  to  lay  hands  upon  the  people  to 
confirm  upon  them  the  Holy  Ghost,  by  the  authority  of  ancient  revelation? 
No.  Did  we  presume  to  establish  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  or  organize  it, 
about  fifty  years  ago,  because  they  established  one  eighteen  hundred  years 
ago  and  upwards?  No.  Did  we  presume  to  officiate  in  any  order  of  the 
priesthood  by  virtue  of  any  ancient  revelation  given  to  the  ancient  Saints? 
No.  We  did  not  undertake  to  do  any  of  these  things  by  virtue  of  former  reve- 
lation; but  all  we  have  done  in  this  Church  has  been  done  by  direct  commu- 
nication and  revelation  from  heaven ;  all  the  ordinances  that  we  administer 
have  been  directed  by  new  revelation;  all  the  priesthood  that  this  people  hold 
this  day  was  given  by  new  revelation ;  all  the  various  duties  of  the  priesthood 
to  be  performed  by  us  in  our  day  were  given  by  new  revelation;  and  we  would 
not  dare  presume  to  enter  into  this  or  that  form  of  marriage,  pertaining  to 
plural  matrimony,  by  any  former  revelation;  it  has  been  by  new  revelation 
that  these  things  have  been  done. 

We  say  that  this  is  the  kingdom  of  God,  established  on  the  earth.  We 
say  that  it  was  organized  by  divine  revelation.  We  say  that  the  authority  was 
sent  down  from  heaven  and  conferred  upon  the  heads  of  mortal  man  in  our 
generation.  We  have  seen  these  things  in  the  former  days  of  this  Church,  or 
at  least  in  the  first  rise  of  the  Church.  The  Lord  our  God  was  pleased  to 
confer  the  authority  that  is  symbolized  by  these  pictures  here  in  this  hall.  We 
have  no  authority  given  by  any  other  people,  any  other  nation,  any  other  sect, 
any  other  denomination;  we  do  not  consider  their  pretensions  to  divine  au- 
thority worth  the  ashes  of  a  rye  straw — we  mean  the  whole  of  their  authority 
put  together.  Hence  the  Lord  has  given  all  these  things  by  his  own  power. 
Now,  if  this  be  the  kingdom  of  God,  as  we  testify,  organized  and  set  up  by  his 
own  divine  will,  the  authority  restored  by  his  own  power,  the  ordinances  re- 
newed by  divine  revelation,  what  then  should  we  expect  in  the  future  ?  Should 
we  expect  to  lay  down  these  principles  in  the  future,  and  say  they  are  no 
longer  required?  No.  In  all  our  future  doings,  in  all  our  future  journeyings, 
in  all  our  future  administrations  among  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  from  this 
time  henceforth  and  forever,  the  Lord  our  God  is  our  Lawgiver,  the  Lord  our 
God  is  our  King,  the  Lord  our  God  is  our  Revelator,  the  Lord  our  God  will 
direct  in  all  these  things. 

The  year  of  jubilee !    These  are  words  that  sound  very  pleasantly  to  my 


TWO  DAYS'  meetings. 


27 


ears.  I  am  looking  forward  to  the  Great  Jubilee  that  is  now  near  at  hand,  and 
when  I  hear  the  words  spoken  from  this  stand,  when  I  read  these  ordinances 
that  were  instituted  among  ancient  Israel,  and  when  my  thoughts  reach  out  to 
the  great  future,  to  the  time  when  there  will  be  a  jubilee  indeed,  my  heart  re- 
joices before  the  Lord.  A  jubilee  for  all  the  Saints  of  God,  wherein  they  will 
be  subject  to  no  power,  save  it  be  the.  power  of  God  and  the  power  that  he 
has  ordained;  wherein  there  will  be  no  earthly  governments  to  triumph  over 
the  Saints  of  that  kingdom;  wherein  there  will  be  but  one  government  upon 
the  face  of  the  whole  earth,  and  the  dominion  and  the  greatness  of  that  do- 
minion and  that  kingdom  will  extend  forth  under  the  whole  heavens.  It  will 
be  a  time  of  jubilee — a  time  wherein  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  will  rejoice,  a 
time  wherein  the  inhabitants  of  heaven  will  rejoice,  a  time  when  the  inhabi- 
tants of  heaven  will  join  with  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  in  one  great,  grand, 
general  assembly,  although  we  will  afterwards  be  permitted  to  spread  forth  in 
our  generations  over  the  face  of  the  earth,  to  perform  various  duties  required 
at  our  hands ;  but  yet,  in  the  commencement  of  that  gcand  period  it  will  be  a 
general  assembly  of  the  Church  of  the  First-born — of  the  living  and  the  dead 
who  have  died  in  Christ.  Jesus  will  be  our  King;  he  will  be  our  Lawgiver ; 
he  will  reign  over  us.  The  resurrected  Saints  will  be  with  us.  We  will  hear 
the  words  of  their  mouths.  They  will  also  be  kings  and  priests;  they  will 
administer  among  their  households  of  the  generations  that  shall  be  in  mortal 
flesh;  they  will  be  called  the  priests  of  God,  and  will  administer  in  power  and 
great  glory  during  the  happy  period  of  the  Millennium. 

A  year  of  Jubilee !  No  sorrow,  no  sighing,  no  bondage  among  the  people 
of  God,  but  all  will  be  free,  full  of  joy,  full  of  blessings ;  and  this  jubilee  will 
last  for  one  thousand  years.  Amen. 

EI.DEB   CHARLES   C.  RICH. 

I  feel  very  thankful  to  enjoy  the  privilege  of  meeting  .with  my  brethren 
and  sisters  in  this  hall,  and  of  listening  to  the  instructions  we  have  received  to-day. 
I  often  feel  that  we  are  a  highly  favored  people  in  being  permitted  to  gather 
together  from  the  different  nations  of  the  earth  unto  these  valleys  for  the  pur- 
pose of  being  instructed  by  the  spirit  and  power  of  God  in  relation  to  the 
kingdom  of  God,  and  the  building  up  of  that  kingdom  on  the  earth.  We  are 
thus  a  highly  favored  people,  and  so  far  as  I  am  concerned  I  only  feel  very 
desirous  that  we  should  appreciate  the  blessings  we  enjoy,  realizing  that  they 
come  from  our  Heavenly  Father,  realizing  that  we  are  in  a  position  to  receive 
such  instruction  as  we  need  from  day  to  day  in  order  to  comprehend  his  will 
concerning  us,  and  be  willing  to  perform  the  labor  that  is  required  of  us.  This 
should  be  our  study  by  day  and  by  night,  in  order  that  we  may  comprehend 
the  duties  and  responsibilities  that  rest  upon  us  as  Saints,  that  we  may  perform 
them  in  the  flesh  in  a  manner  that  will  be  acceptable  to  God  our  Heavenly 
Father.  We  learn  from  the  revelations  that  we  have  received,  that  the  labors 
pertaining  to  the  flesh  should  be  performed  whilst  in  the  flesh.  We  are  re- 
quired to  perform  labors  for  our  friends  that  have  gone  before,  labors  that  they 
cannot  perform  for  themselves,  and  should  we  pass  away  without  doing  this 
work  we  should  fail  in  our  duty.  It  would  be  well,  therefore,  for  us  to  reflect 
upon  these  principles — that  is,  upon  the  principle  of  performing  the  labors  per- 


28 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


taining  to  us  in  the  flesh  while  we  are  in  the  flesh.  For  this  purpose  we  aie 
laboring  to  build  temples  to  enable  us  to  perform  the  works  we  should  per- 
form. I  sometimes  think,  however,  that  we  are  a  little  careless  in  relation  to 
this  matter.  Having  been  favored  as  we  have  been  as  Saints  of  the  Most  High 
God,  being  directed  what  to  do  and  how  to  do  it,  let  us  be  found  faithful  in  the 
discharge  of  the  duties  that  are  incumbent  upon  us. 

There  are  no  people  on  the  earth  that  I  know  anything  about  who  have 
been  so  highly  favored  as  we  kave  been.  We  have  had  the  word  of  the  Lord 
from  the  beginning  of  this  Church  until  the  present  time  in  relation  to  what 
we  should  do  to  build  up  the  kingdom  of  God  on  the  earth.  We  have  had  his 
servants  that  have  said  to  us  "verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord,"  do  this  thing,  and 
that  thing  in  our  temporal  as  well  as  spiritual  affairs  that  we  might  perform  our 
duties  in  a  manner  acceptable  to  the  Lord  our  God. 

In  observing  the  principles  of  the  everlasting  gospel,  we  find  that  we  are 
removed  from  difficulties  that  other  people  have  to  encounter.  We  find  the 
gospel  has  a  remedy  for  all  our  evils.  We  may  have  difficulties  to  encounter, 
but  we  have  the  opportunities  of  overcoming  them.  We  have  the  privilege  of 
doing  right  all  the  time  and  not  doing  wrong.  Our  words  can  be  for  good; 
our  labors  can  be  for  good;  and  our  energies  can  be  used  for  the  establish- 
ment of  righteousness  on  the  earth.  This  is  our  privilege,  and  I  trust  we  are 
living  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God  and  the  building  up  of  his  king- 
dom on  the  earth,  for  all  other  kingdoms,  as  we  have  been  told,  will  pass 
away,  but  his  kingdom  will  remain  forever.  We  must  labor  in  that  direction. 
We  must  seek  his  Holy  Spirit  to  assist  us,  for -without  it  we  can  accomplish 
but  very  little. 

The  Elders  are  sent  all  over  the  earth,  or  over  a  great  portion  of  the  earth, 
for  the  purpose  of  warning  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  of  the  judgments  to 
come,  and  of  proclaiming  the  everlasting  gospel  that  they  may  have  an  oppor- 
tunity of  embracing  it,  and  be  gathered  out  with  his  people.  This  is  a  privi- 
lege that  is  offered  far  and  wide  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  inasmuch  as 
they  will  receive  it;  but  we  have  found  that  the  great  majority  are  not  dis- 
posed to  receive  the  benefits  and  blessings  of  the  gospel;  only  a  few  out  of 
the  many  are  willing  to  hearken  to  the  counsels  offered  unto  them.  We  are 
among  the  few  that  have  listened  to  and  obeyed  the  principles  of  the  gospel, 
and  we  are  privileged  to  meet  together  on  this  occasion,  and  other  occasions, 
for  the  purpose  of  being  instructed  in  relation  to  the  duties  resting  upon  us. 
We  find  we  do  not  learn  everything  at  once.  We  receive  something  to-day, 
and  probably  something  else  tomorrow,  and  so  on  from  time  to  time,  and  thus 
our  knowledge  increases  in  relation  to  the  things  of  God.  This  is  a  great 
blessing  to  us ;  and  we  should  embrace  every  opportunity  of  overcoming  our 
faults,  our  follies,  and  our  imperfections,  realizing  that  they  do  us  no  good. 
They  are  an  injury  to  us,  and  as  fast  as  we  can  overcome  them  so  fast  are  we 
blessed. 

I  have  thought  sometimes  that  we  are  more  anxious  to  know  some  things 
in  relation  to  the  future  than  we  are  things  pertaining  to  the  present  life.  I 
feel  that  it  is  a  very  important  matter  to  comprehend  the  duties  of  this  life, 
what  we  should  do,  and  what  we  should  not  do.  For  instance,  if  the  Lord  de- 
sires a  temple  built,  it  is  very  desirable  that  we  should  know  how  to  build  it; 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


29 


if  the  Lord  desires  that  we  should  go  on  a  mission  it  is  very  desirable  that  we 
should  go  on  that  mission.  These  are  things  that  we  want  to  understand,  and 
when  we  understand  them  we  want  to  be  engaged  in  that  labor,  and  thus  be 
engaged  in  that  work  the  Lord  requires  us  to  perform.  We  have  already 
learned  that  the  Lord  wants  us  to  build  temples  for  the  purpose  of  redeeming 
our  dead.  We  are  engaged  in  that  labor,  and  I  trust  we  will  accomplish  the 
work  required  at  our  hands  as  speedily  as  possible.  I  will  say,  however,  that 
I  find  a  good  spirit — and  a  willing  spirit — to  engage  in  this  work,  and  the  Lord 
has  blessed  those  who  have  labored  on  these  temples.  He  has  poured  out  his 
blessings  upon  them ;  they  have  received  an  abundance  to  sustain  them,  and 
have  got  means  as  fast  in  laboring  to  build  these  temples  as  they  did  when 
engaged  in  other  work.  The  Lord  has  verily  fulfilled  his  promises  in  relation 
to  this  matter. 

We  cannot  carry  with  us  behind  the  vail  gold  and  silver,  houses  and  lands, 
or  any  earthly  substances ;  but  the  principles  of  eternal  life — if  we  practice 
them  in  our  lives — we  will  carry  them  with  us.  "Straight  is  the  gate  and  nar- 
row is  the  way  that  leadeth  unto  life,  and  few  there  be  that  find  it,"  is  a  saying 
of  the  Savior,  and  it  is  for  us  to  reflect  upon  it.  We  should  never  tire  in 
doing  good.  I  once  met  a  man  who  had  reached  the  years  of  seventy.  He 
thought  he  was  free,  he  thought  he  had  labored  enough.  Now,  I  do  not 
feel  so.  I  do  not  think  we  should  feel  so,  if  we  live  to  be  a  thousand 
years  old.  I  think  we  should  feel  to  exert  ourselves  to  accomplish  all  that 
the  Lord  requires  of  us  both  in  time  and  eternity. 

Brother  Pratt  has  been  laboring  in  this  Church  almost  fifty  years.  I  have 
been  in  the  Church  a  long  time  myself.  What  do  I  find  in  relation  to  myself? 
I  find  that  with  all  my  labors,  and  all  the  exertions  that  I  have  used,  I 
come  short  of  having  done  all  that  I  would  like  to  have  done.  The  longer 
we  live  the  more  we  learn.  Then  let  us  make  good  use  of  our  time. 
Let  us  perform  all  the  earthly  labors  we  can,  and  leave  nothing  undone,  so  that 
when  we  pass  away  we  shall  feel  satisfied  with  our  labors  in  this  probation, 
and  receive  the  welcome  "well  done,  thou  good  and  faithful  servant;  thou  hast 
been  faithful  over  a  few  things,  I  will  make  thee  ruler  over  many  things ;  enter 
thou  into  the  joy  of  thy  Lord."  Now,  the  Lord  has  offered  this  freely  to  all, 
not  to  one,  two,  or  twenty,  but  to  all. 

Well,  I/eel  very  thankful  that  my  life  has  been  spared  to  behold  the  present 
day.  I  am  very  thankful  that  I  was  willing  to  receive,  in  the  early  rise  of  this 
Church,  the  everlasting  gospel.  I  am  very  thankful  that  I  am  able  to-day  to 
bear  testimony  that  I  know  it  is  true,  and  I  know  that  if  we  hearken  to  the 
precepts  of  the  gospel,  and  live  up  to  them,  we  will  receive  an  inheritance  in 
the  celestial  kingdom  of  our  God.  Let  us,  then,  be  found  faithful  to  the  duties 
devolving  upon  us.  Let  us  live  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God,  to  the 
building  up  of  his  kingdom,  and  to  accomplishing  the  work  he  has  designed 
we  should  accomplish. 

That  the  Lord  may  bless  us,  and  bless  his  Saints  everywhere,  is  my  prayer 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


3° 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


PRESIDENT   JOHN  TAYLOR. 

I  have  been  very  much  interested — as  no  doubt  you  all  have— in  listening 
to  the  principles  that  have  been  unfolded  to  us  this  day,  in  this  house.  I  was 
going  to  say  I  almost  wish  the  house  was  a  little  larger;  but,  then,  upon  re- 
flection, it  is  right  enough ;  it  was  not  intended  to  be  as  large  as  the  tabernacle. 
The  large  tabernacle  is  a  place  for  the  assembling  of  the  people  in  General 
Conference,  and  on  public  occasions,  and  it  has.become  a  question  whether  we 
had  better  go  into  the  other  building  or  continue  in  this  to-morrow.  However, 
the  weather  is  a  little  cold  and  inclement  at  present,  and  perhaps  by  the 
sixth  of  April  it  may  be  a  little  warmer  and  more  comfortable.  If  not,  we  shall 
have  to  do  the  best  we  can.  As  I  stated,  this  building  is  not  intended  for  a 
General  Conference,  but  for  holding  meetings  in  the  winter  time  when  the 
weather  is  cold,  and  as  a  Stake  house  to  hold  Priesthood  and  quarterly  Con- 
ferences in,  where  all  may  be  warm  and  comfortable ;  and  so  far  as  that  is 
concerned,  it  seems  to  me  that  the  house  will  accomplish  all  that  is  required 
in  this  respect.  And  then  for  our  Conference  meetings  we  have  the  large  tab- 
ernacle, which  will  hold,  I  suppose,  three  or  four  times  more  people  than  this 
will.  I  am  sorry  that  there  should  be  a  necessity  for  any  to  turn  away;  but  we 
cannot  always  help  these  things,  and  it  is  better  for  those  that  are  here  to  be 
comfortable,  than  for  all  to  be  uncomfortable,  cold  and  unpleasant. 

In  regard  to  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged,  we  all  feel  to  a  certain 
extent  interested  therein,  and  there  are  many  points  that  it  will  be  necessary 
for  us  to  reflect  upon.  One  is,  that  it  is  "not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me, 
Lord,  Lord,  that  shall  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven;  but  he  that  doeth  the 
will  of  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven."  And  it  is  for  us  to  square  our  lives 
according  to  the  principles  laid  down  for  all  of  us ;  for  all  of  the  officers ;  for 
the  Twelve  and  their  Counselors;  for  the  Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their 
Counselors;  for  High  Priests,  for  Seventies,  Elders,  Priests,  Teachers  and 
Deacons ;  and  for  every  man  to  magnify  his  calling  with  singleness  of  heart 
before  God,  and  to  feel  that  God  demands  of  us  righteousness,  truth  and  in- 
tegrity in  our  hearts ;  that  we  cleave  unto  him,  observe  his  laws  and  keep  his 
commandments;  and  if  we  do  this,  then  the  blessings  of  which  we  have  heard 
are  ours;  if  we  do  not  we  shall  not  possess  them. 

I  do  not  wish  to  talk  long,  as  the  time  has  expired.  I  thought  I  would  make 
a  very  few  remarks.  There  are  other  things  to  attend  to ;  but  for  the  present 
I  will  desist. 

The  choir  sang  an  anthem. 

Meeting  adjourned  until  Monday,  at  10  a.m. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Franklin  D.  Richards. 


TWO  DAYS'  MEETINGS. 


31 


Monday,  10  a.m. 

Singing  by  the  choir. 

Prayer  by  Elder  Charles  C.  Rich. 

ELDER   BEIGHAM  YOUNG. 

We  have  been  highly  edified  during  our  meetings  in  this  hall,  and  I  am 
thankful  for  the  privilege  of  meeting  with  the  Saints  in  this  beautiful  building. 
It  is  certainly  a  great  improvement  upon  those  brush  boweries  that  we  once 
occupied,  and  even  upon  the  old  tabernacle  that  formerly  stood  in  this  corner 
of  the  block.  If  we  are  improving  as  Latter-day  Saints  in  spiritual  things,  and 
in  union  in  temporal  matters,  as  we  are  improving  in  wealth,  in  architectural 
taste,  and  in  all  of  those  amenities  that  make  life  agreeable  in  a  temporal  point 
of  view,  no  doubt  it  is  well  with  us.  I  presume  that  we  are  advancing  in  the 
knowledge  of  God,  and  that  we  are  preparing  ourselves  for  a  future  life  and 
exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  But  when  we  examine  ourselves  closely, 
it  is  evident  we  are  not  making  the  progress  in  the  knowledge  of  the  things  of 
the  kingdom  of  God  that  we  should  make,  as  the  representatives  of  the 
Almighty  in  this  whole  earth.  Of  all  the  millions  of  people  that  inhabit  this 
globe  the  Latter-day  Saints  alone,  so  far  as  I  know,  represent  the  kingdom  of 
God  upon  the  earth,  represent  the  great  latter-day  work — the  restoration  of 
all  things — and  are  in  possession  of  those  ordinances  which  reach  into  eternity 
and  which  are  of  so  vital  importance  to  the  future  existence  of  all  mankind. 
Do  we  truly  realize  the  importance  of  the  position  we  occupy?  We  have  had 
revelation;  we  are  receiving  revelation  constantly.  God  has  placed  us  in  a 
position  that  we  may  communicate  with  the  heavens,  that  we  may  receive  in- 
spiration of  the  Holy  Ghost  and  be  actuated  thereby  in  all  the  labors  of  this 
life.  But  in  our  daily  avocations  we  fail  frequently  to  enjoy  the  free  flow  of 
that  Spirit  that  comes  from  above ;  our  humanity  too  often  steps  in  between, 
and  when  this  is  our  condition  we  become  more  or  less  subject  to  other  influ- 
ences whose  work  is  to  deceive  and  lead  astray.  There  is  a  principle  of  reve- 
lation which  all  Saints  are  required  to  understand  and  observe.  It  is  not  our 
province  to  have  angels  of  God  visit  us,  as  they  certainly  did  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  when  he  laid  out  the  broad  foundation  of  the  kingdom  of  God 
upon  the  earth.  In  his  case  their  visits  were  actually  necessary;  for  nothing 
short  of  direct  communication  with  the  heavens  could  have  enabled  him  to  do 
the  work  he  did;  in  ours  it  is  different.  The  foundation  is  already  laid  accord- 
ing to  divine  approval  and  the  work  of  building  fairly  on  its  way;  revelations 
communicating  the  will  of  the  Lord  have  been  given  for  our  profit  and  general 
guidance,  and  it  remains  with  us  to  carry  ft  on  to  completion.  But  there  is  a 
principle  of  revelation  in  the  heart  of  every  Latter-day  Saint  which,  if  cher- 
ished and  encouraged,  is  calculated  to  lead  us  safe  in  all  the  minor  affairs 
of  life ;  and  we  should  live,  and  it  is  our  privilege  to  so  live,  as  to  be  operated 
upon  by  the  influences  of  the  Spirit  of  God  through  all  our  labors  until  the 
whisperings  of  that  Spirit  shall  be  constantly  with  us.  Man  is  in  a  fallen  con- 
dition; we  realize  this  every  day.    He  looks  hither  and  thither;  he  casts  his 


32 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


eyes  to  the  right  and  to  left,  and  desires  this  thing  and  the  other  thing,  and 
wishes  and  hopes  to  obtain  them;  and  thus  follows  after  those  earthly  posses- 
sions, paying  heedless  regard  to  more  weighty  things  of  the  kingdom.  Now, 
the  principle  of  revelation  should  be  in  the  breast  of  every  Latter-day  Saint; 
it  should  be  there  and  continue  to  grow  and  increase  and  expand  in  the  hearts 
of  the  people  until  they  are  thoroughly  imbued  with  that  Spirit.  It  will  not 
come  in  a  day  nor  perhaps  in  a  year,  nor  in  a  series  of  years ;  it  will  take  years 
and  years  of  faithfulness  on  the  part  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  before  their 
minds  can  be  wholly  and  fully  absorbed  by  the  spirit  of  revelation,  so  that 
every  thought  and  every  act  will  be  prompted  by  the  influence  of  the  Spirit  of 
God.  It  is  our  duty  to  encourage  that  Spirit  until  it  absorbs  the  whole  being, 
until  all  our  thoughts  and  actions  shall  spring  from  that  pure  source  which 
comes  from  above. 

Now,  that  our  acts  do  not  comport  with  this  teaching  at  all  times,  I  am 
aware ;  but  it  is  expected  of  us  to  grow  unto  these  things ;  and  in  order  to  grow 
unto  them,  it  is  necessary  for  us  to  take  a  course  to  nourish  and  cherish  this 
Spirit  in  our  every  day  associations  and  conversations,  that  nothing  may  ob- 
struct the  free  flow  of  the  Holy  Spirit  unto  us. 

We  listen  to  many  things  that  are  pleasing  to  the  ear,  but  which  are  not 
profitable  to  the  mind.  This  should  not  be.  The  things  of  the  world  should 
have  no  place  in  the  hearts  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  If  I  place  myself  in  a 
condition  to  receive  the  things  which  are  outside  of  this  Church  and  kingdom ; 
if  I  associate  with  people  who  have  denied  the  faith  and  who  acknowledge 
not  God,  who  will  not  bow  in  obedience  to  the  principles  of  the  everlasting 
Gospel,  and  who  are,  say,  spiritualists  and  infidels — if  I  associate  with  such 
men,  I  must  to  a  greater  or  less  degree  partake  of  their  influence. 

Our  associations  have  a  great  deal  to  do  with  either  the  encouraging  or 
discouraging  within  us  the  principle  of  revelation.  For  instance,  I  hear 
of  people  calling  themselves  Latter-day  Saints  who  make  a  practice  of  taking 
their  wives  and  children  to  beer  saloons,  and  while  in  such  places  they  get  so 
happy  that  they  shout  out  the  songs  of  Zion,  and  seem  to  enjoy  themselves  to 
a  great  degree.  Does  anybody  know  of  circumstances  of  this  kind?  Yes; 
we  cannot  deny  it.  Who  are  these  people ?  Are  they  Latter-day  Saints?  I 
should  not  think  so,  indeed ;  although  to  hear  them  sing  one  might  be  led  to 
believe  them  the  best  of  people,  for  they  select  the  choicest  ot  hymns,  and 
they  shout  them  out  before  men  who  make  a  living  by  selling  intoxicating 
liquors.  To  my  mind  it  is  casting  pearls  before  swine.  Perhaps  you  may 
think  that  is  a  little  strong;  but  that  is  the  view  I  take  of  it.  I  am  aware  that 
all  the  people  do  not  do  this ;  I  am  aware,  in  fact,  that  they  are  very  few,  com- 
paratively speaking.  I  am  not  censuring  those  people  who  do  not  do  this 
thing,  but  there  are  some  people  who  call  themselves  Latter-day  Saints  whose 
conduct  in  this  respect  is  censurable.  To  associate  with  the  drunkard  is  not 
the  way  to  encourage  the  principle  of  revelation.  Every  Latter-day  Saint  is 
bound  to  encourage  this  principle  if  he  desires  to  attain  the  blessings  that  ac- 
crue from  the  everlasting  gospel.  But  there  is  but  one  way,  one  road,  and  the 
end  thereof  is  life  everlasting. 

Now,  what  shall  we  do,  Latter-day  Saints?  We  are  aware  of  the  fact 
that  society  is  sadly  mixed  up  in  this  city;  and  that  every  engine  and  power  of 


TWO  DAYS'  MEETINGS. 


33 


darkness  having  a  tendency  to  win  away  the  hearts  of  our  sons  and  daughters, 
and  to  allure  the  weak-minded  is  at  work  endeavorjing  to  lead  them  down  to 
destruction.  These  local  affairs  should  engage  our  attention  until  these  evils 
are  rooted  out  from  our  midst.  And  let  the  line  be  drawn  between  those  that 
live  their  religion  and  those  that  do  not.  The  very  best  way  to  show  them  up 
in  their  true  colors  is  for  us  to  live  our  religion  and  let  people  see  by  our  works 
that  we  are  for  God  and  his  kingdom. 

My  prayer  is — and  I  presume  it  is  the  prayer  of  all  Latter-day  Saints — 
that  God  will  inspire  our  hearts  to  do  right,  to  walk  in  his  paths,  and  help  us 
to  overcome  evil  with  good.  Let  us  have  charity.  I  believe  in  charity,  I 
would  like  to  have  more  of  it;  but  I  do  not  consider  it  is  charity  for  me  and 
mine  to  indulge  in  the  society  of  those  that  are  apostates,  that  are  wicked  in 
their  hearts,  and  will  deny  the  covenants  which  they  have  made  before  their 
Father  and  God;  I  do  not  think  itis  charity  for  me  to  throw  pearls  before  swine. 
I  believe  in  charity,  and  at  the  same  time  I  believe  in  entire  cxclusiveness,  so  far 
as  mixing  up  my  interest  and  striking  hands  with  the  unbelievers  is  concerned. 

That  God  may  help  us  to  cultivate  and  develop  within  us  the  spirit  of 
revelation,  until  every  thought  shall  be  inspired  from  on  high,  is  my  prayer,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER   JOSEPH   F.  SMITH. 

While  listening  to  Brother  Young,  my  mind  reverted  to  one  or  two  pass- 
ages in  the  early  revelations  given  to  the  Church,  which  would  seem,  from  the 
testimony  we  have  had  from  him,  to  be  somewhat  applicable  at  the  present 
time  as  well  as  at  the  time  the  revelations  were  given,  and  I  thought  I  would 
refer  to,  and  perhaps  read  a  few  of  these  passages,  so  that  we  can  reflect  upon 
them  ourselves.  [The  speaker  then  read  from  the  first  to  the  tenth  verse  of 
the  revelation  given  to  Joseph  Smith  June  22,  1834,  page  377  of  the  new  edi- 
tion of  Doctrine  and  Covenants;  also  from  a  revelation  given  De'cember  16, 
1833,  first  to  the  nineteenth  verse,  same  book,  page  349.] 

I  realize  that  I  am  speaking  to  people  that  have  joined  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  as  members  of  that  Church,  profess 
faith  in  the  Gospel  as  it  has  been  revealed  in  this  dispensation.  It  would 
seem,  sometimes,  almost  superfluous  to  keep  preaching  upon  these  plain  and 
simple  principles,  which  all  ought  to  understand  and  be  anxious  to  carry  out. 
Nevertheless  we  find  it  necessary,  and  therefore  we  continue  to  preach,  ex- 
pound, exhort  and  to  plead  with  the  people,  our  brethren  and  sisters  in  the 
covenant  of  the  Gospel,  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God  which  they  have 
covenanted  to  keep.  The  Lord  keeps  pleading  with  us ;  he  has  to  forbear 
with  us,  to  extend  mercy,  kindness  and  forgiveness  day  after  day.  For  we  are 
very  forgetful,  careless,  indifferent  and  thoughtless  of  our  duties.  It  is  only 
when  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  upon  us  that  we  can  really  sense  the  responsi- 
bilities that  we  are  under  to  God  and  to  each  other.  When  we  are  engaged  in 
the  daily  avocations  of  life  our  minds  are  occupied  with  other  things;  we  are 
thinking  how  to  make  means,  or  get  wealth,  how  to  provide  for  our  necessities 
and  to  make  our  families  comfortable.  These  thoughts  take  possession  of  our 
minds  and  exclude  reflections  upon  the  commandments  of  God  which  we  have 
covenanted  to  keep,  and  which,  by  keeping,  we  would  avoid  all  the  errors, 


34 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


evils  and  follies  that  have  been  referred  to  by  Elder  Young,  to  which  so  many 
of  us  are  liable,  notwithstanding  we  are  professedly  Latter-day  Saints.  It 
was  said  by  our  Savior,  to  those  who  professed  to  be  his  disciples,  "Except 
your  righteousness  shall  exceed  the  righteousness  of  the  Scribes  and  Phari- 
sees, ye  shall  in  no  case  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven."  Now,  when  I 
see  a  Latter-day  Saint,  or,  rather,  a  person  who  professes  to  be  a  Latter-day 
Saint,  guilty  of  drunkenness,  of  profanity,  of  dishonesty,  or  cheating  his 
neighbor,  or  of  bearing  false  witness  against  his  brother,  I  say  in  my  heart 
that  that  man  is  two-fold  more  a  child  of  hell  than  as  though  he  had  never  been 
baptized;  for  "to  him  thatknoweth  how  to  do  good  and  doeth  it  not,  to  him  it 
is  sin,"  saith  the  Apostle  James.  And  verily  it  is  true  in  relation  to  those  who 
profess  to  be  Latter-day  Saints,  who  should  know  to  do  good,  for  they  have 
covenanted  to  do  that  which  is  right  and  forsake  that  which  is  evil.  That 
covenant  has  been  made  with  God,  and  is  recorded  in  the  archives  of  heaven 
as  well  as  upon  the  earth.  If  we  take  a  course  to  violate  our  covenants,  we 
declare  our  unworthiness  before  him  with  whom  those  covenants  are  made, 
who  understands  the  nature  of  the  covenants  and  of  the  obligations  we  are 
under,  and  must  regard  us  as  transgressors,  far  more  worthy  of  chastisement 
than  those  who  have  never  entei'ed  into  covenant  with  the  Lord  to  keep 
his  laws.  Is  not  this  correct,  sound,  just  and  reasonable  doctrine?  Is  not 
this  the  way  in  which  we  would  judge  ourselves  and  regard  one  another?  Do 
we  not  look  upon  our  neighbor,  who  has  made  a  promise  to  us  and  has  wilfully 
and  intentionally  broken  that  promise,  as  untrustworthy,  as  untrue  to  his  word, 
and  unworthy  of  our  confidence  and  esteem?  Certainly.  Then  how  much 
more  will  God,  who  is  perfect,  who  sees  clearly  the  end  from  the  beginning, 
look  upon  us  with  disfavor,  who  have  received  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying 
on  of  hands,  and  therefore  the  means  of  knowing  the  way  of  life,  if  we  turn 
away  from  the  truth  and  disregard  our  vows  and  covenants  with  God  and  each 
other.  Are,  we  not,  under  the  circumstances,  worthy  of  condemnation  and 
chastisement?  If  the  wicked,  who  will  not  repent  of  their  sins,  and  who 
therefore  know  not  God  nor  keep  his  commandments,  will  be  destroyed  for 
their  wickedness,  how  much  more  worthy  of  destruction  will  they  be  who. 
having  once  repented  of  their  sins  and  learned  the  way  of  life,  have  turned 
from  their  righteousness  again  to  their  evil  practices  and  ways? 

It  is  said  here,  in  the  language  that  I  have  read,  "Zion  cannot  be  built  up 
unless  it  is  by  the  principles  of  the  law  of  the  celestial  kingdom,  otherwise  I 
cannot  receive  her  unto  myself."  In  other  words,  those  who  profess  to  be 
Latter-day  Saints  must  become  acquainted  with  the  laws  of  the  celestial  king- 
dom, must  abide  by  them,  must  comply  with  the  requirements  of  heaven  and 
hearken  to  the  word  of  the  Lord,  in  order  that  Zion  may  be  built  up  accepta- 
bly, and  that  we  may  partake  of  the  benefits  and  blessings  of  this  labor.  For 
it  is  a  labor  which  devolves  upon  those  who  have  been  called  out  from  the 
midst  of  the  world  in  this  dispensation.  We  have  been  called,  and  so  far  as 
we  will  be  faithful  we  are  chosen  to  do  this  work.  But  notwithstanding  we 
have  been  called,  if  we  do  not  prove  faithful  we  will  be  rejected.  I  do  not 
speak  this  in  reference  to  the  whole  Church,  but  in  reference  to  individual 
members  of  the  Church :  for  it  is  my  implicit  faith  and  belief  that  this  work 
will  never  cease,  that  it  will  never  be  given  to  another  people,  and  that  the 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


35 


purposes  and  designs  of  God  will  be  accomplished,  for  he  has  decreed  it.  In 
one  sense  we  are  not  doing  this  work,  for  it  is  not  the  work  of  man,  neither 
individually  nor  collectively,  nor  of  any  single  quorum  of  the  priesthood,  nor 
of  all  the  quorums  combined,  except  God  is  with  them.  In  other  words,  it  is 
God  Almighty  who  will  accomplish  this  work,  and  he  will  use  such  instru- 
ments as  he  can  find  for  its  accomplishment,  and  those  instruments  will  be 
honored  and  blessed  of  the  Lord,  and  will  share  in  the  rewards,  exaltation  and 
glory  of  Zion.  Yet  the  honor,  glory  and  power  must  be  ascribed  unto  the 
Father,  Son  and  Holy  Spirit,  now  and  forever,  for  it  is  God's  work  and  not 
the  work  of  man.  We  often  hear  it  said  that  if  such  and  such  a  man  should 
lead  the  Church  that  he  would  lead  it  to  destruction.  I  will  say,  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord,  that  if  any  man  were  to  lead  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  he  would 
lead  it  to  destruction ;  that  is,  if  the  Church  would  follow.  But  I  will  say,  on 
the  other  hand,  that  if  God  Almighty  chooses  a  man  to  lead  the  Church,  God 
will  speak  through  that  man.  It  will  not  be  the  man  that  will  lead  the  Church, 
but  it  will  be  God  that  will  do  it  through  that  instrumentality,  and  we  will  give 
the  honor  to  God;  we  will  not  arrogate  the  credit  or  the  honor  to  ourselves. 

But  we  cannot  build  up  Zion  except  upon  the  principles  of  righteousness. 
Men  must  forsake  their  wickedness,  their  lusts,  covetousness,  greed,  and  love 
of  the  pleasures  of  the  world,  and  bring  themselves  under  the  laws  of  God,  or 
they  never  will  partake  of  the  blessings  and  glory  of  Zion.  And  that  is  not 
all.  It  is  said  in  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  that  we  must  be  willing 
to  make  a  sacrifice  of  everything  that  we  possess  in  the  world  for  the  King- 
dom of  God's  sake,  and  the  man  or  woman  that  presumes  to  lay  claim  to  the 
gift  of  eternal  life,  who  is  unwilling  to  make  this  sacrifice,  will  be  offering  an 
insult  to  the  dignity  of  the  Creator.  (See  Sixth  Lecture  on  Faith.)  It  is  writ- 
ten that  we  must  love  the  Lord  with  all  our  hearts,  and  our  neighbor  as  we  love 
ourselves.  When  we  reach  this  point,  we  shall  not  be  liable  to  the  accusation 
of  loving  the  world  more  than  we  love  God.  It  will  then  be  easy  to  make  any 
sacrifice  for  the  sake  of  truth,  though  it  be  the  sacrifice  of  life  itself;  that  is, 
this  present  life.  Jesus  said:  "Fear  not  them  which  kill  the  body,  but  are  not 
able  to  kill  the  soul;  but  rather  fear  him  which  is  able  to  destroy  both  soul  and 
body  in  hell."  Rather  fear  God  than  man.  Rather  fear  to  offend  the  Al- 
mighty than  to  offend  mankind.  Rather  fear  to  trangress  the  laws  of  God 
than  those  of  men. 

There  are  some  few,  so  called,  very  good  Latter-day  Saints,  who  have 
formed  the  acquaintance  of  those  who  are  not  members  of  the  Church,  and 
because  of  these  associations  they  are  led  into  saloons  to  drink  with  them,  not 
daring  to  refuse  for  fear  of  offending  their  friends !  I  say  a  man  who  is  so 
weak  as  to  do  that  is  not  fit  to  be  an  Elder  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  nor 
to  be  fellowshipped,  or  held  as  in  good  standing  in  the  ward  in  which  he  lives. 
Why?  Because  his  example  is  bad.  He  shows  weakness  and  unworthiness 
before  the  Lord  and  mankind.  He  has  not  the  strength  of  character  to  refuse 
to  join  his  friend  in  doing  an  evil,  for  fear  of  offending  that  friend.  The  same 
principle  would  lead  him,  and,  by  his  example,  others  perhaps,  to  gambling, 
stealing,  profanity,  whoredom,  or  anything  else  in  the  catalogue  of  crime.  I 
love  a  man  who  dares  refuse  to  do  wrong,  no  matter  where  he  is  nor  what  the 
wrong  even  to  drinking  hot  drinks,  or  neglecting  the  "  Word  of  Wisdom." 


36 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


Many  of  our  good  people  have  become  so  weak  that,  according  to  the  "Word 
of  Wisdom,"  they  are  not  worthy  to  be  called  Saints,  for  it  is  "adapted  to  the 
capacity  of  the  weak  and  the  weakest  of  all  Saints  who  are  or  can  be  called 
Saints."  But  says  one,  "  If  I  am  offered  a  cup  of  tea  or  a  cup  coffee  I  cannot 
refuse  it."  Then,  according  to  the  word  of  the  Lord,  you  are  too  weak  to  be  a 
Latter-day  Saint. 

It  has  been  said  that  Brother  Joseph  F.  Smith  is  "radical."  Perhaps  so, 
for  when  I  give  my  word  I  expect  to  fulfil  it;  I  always  have  felt  so,  and  always 
have  endeavored  to  keep  my  word  whenever  I  have  given  it.  Those  to  whom 
my  word  is  given  have  a  right  to  expect  and  demand  its  fulfilment,  or  a  justifi- 
able reason  for  failing  to  do  so.  And  if  ever  I  fail  to  fulfil  my  word,  I  hope 
to  be  able  to  give  a  sufficient  reason  for  it.  I  do  not  presume  that  I  am  better 
than  the  Lord,  I  do  not  think  that  man  can  be  better  than  God;  I  therefore 
suppose  that  when  God  has  given  his  word  that  he  will  fulfil  it;  I  suppose 
that  when  he  makes  a  requirement  of  men  he  expects  them  to  comply  there- 
with, and  doubly  so  when  they  have  agreed  to  comply,  and  if  they  fail,  I  am 
simple  enough  to  believe  with  all  my  heart  that  God  Almighty  will  demand 
satisfaction.  Does  any  one  call  me  radical  for  that?  If  so,  then  I  confess 
that  I  am  radical.  When  I  read  the  laws  of  God  in  this  good  book  (the  Bible), 
that  the  liar,  the  hypocrite,  the  sorcerer,  and  the  adulterer,  cannot  enter  the 
kingdom  of  heaven,  I  understand  that  that  is  what  is  meant.  I  can  give  it  no 
other  construction  or  meaning,  therefore  I  believe  that  liars,  adulterers,  drunk- 
ards, sorcerers,  &c,  &c,  will  not  get  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  without 
they  repent  and  make  restitution  for  the  wrongs  they  have  done ;  God  has 
opened  the  way  of  escape  for  those  that  will  hearken  to  and  avail  themselves 
of"  the  privileges  of  the  Gospel.  "  Who  is  there,"  says  the  Lord,  "  that  hath 
understanding,  that  I  have  not  called  to  repentance."  There  is  not  one  that 
God  has  not  called  to  repentance,  which  means  the  forsaking  of  sin,  a  depar- 
ture from  evil  to  do  righteousness  and  walk  in  the  way  of  life  and  salvation.  I 
understand  that  unless  we  do  this  we  will  be  weighed  in  the  balance  and  found 
wanting.  Can  you  take  any  other  view  of  these  matters?  How  can  a  man 
excuse  himself  for  drunkenness,  when  he  knows  that  it  is  injurious  to  himself, 
to  his  family  and  others,  and  is  forbidden  by  the  law  of  God,  and  is  a  violation 
of  the  most  sacred  covenants  he  can  make?  How  can  a  man  excuse  himself 
under  these  circumstances?  What  reason  will  he  be  able  to  give  before  God? 
How  can  he  escape  the  damnation  that  awaits  the  wicked?  It  is  written  that 
"  not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me,  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  kingdom 
of  heaven."  No;  but  those  who  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  who  walk 
righteously  before  him;  they  shall  say  "Lord,  Lord,"  and  the  Lord  will 
hearken  unto  them. 

The  cry  of  the  angel  was,  "Come  out  of  her  (Babylon),  my  people,  that 
ye  be  not  partakers  of  her  sins,  and  that  ye  receive  not  of  her  plagues."  The 
doom  of  Babylon  is  sealed.  The  judgments  of  God  will  be  poured  out  upon 
her;  they  are  at  the  door;  the  wicked  will  perish;  Babylon  will  fall,  for  God 
has  decreed  it.  They  have  rejected  the  prophets,  and  have  shed  the  blood  of 
the  Saints  and  of  those  who  brought  life  and  salvation  unto  them.  They  have 
cast  out  the  Church  of  Christ  from  their  midst  and  have  called  it  evil ;  they 
have  blackened  the  character  of  those  that  have  taken  leading  parts  in  the 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


37 


Church  and  Kingdom  of  God.  Therefore,  the  cup  of  her  iniquity  is  about 
full,  and  the  cry  is,  "  Come  out  of  her,  my  people,  that  ye  be  not  partakers  of 
her  sins,  and  that  ye  receive  not  of  her  plagues."  Now  what  will  it  avail  us 
to  come  out  of  Babylon,  if  we  bring  Babylon  with  us,  or  continue  her  prac- 
tices in  Zion?  It  does  not  look  to  me  as  though  it  would  be  much  benefit.  I 
read,  in  the  sixth  chapter  of  the  second  epistle  of  Paul  to  the  Corinthians, 
something  that  is  applicable  to  some  of  us  in  our  present  condition.  Paul 
says:  u  Be  ye  not  unequally  yoked  together  with  unbelievers ;  for  what  fellow- 
ship hath  righteousness  with  unrighteousness?  And  what  communion  hath 
light  with  darkness?  And  what  concord  hath  Christ  with  Belial?  Or  what 
part  hath  he  that  believeth  with  an  infidel?  And  what  agreement  hath  the 
Temple  of  God  with  idols  ?  For  ye  are  the  Temple  of  the  living  God ;  as  God 
hath  said,  I  will  dwell  in  them  and  walk  in  them,  and  I  will  be  their  God,  and 
they  shall  be  my  people.  Wherefore,  come  out  from  among  them,  and  be  ye 
separate,  saith  the  Lord,  and  touch  not  the  unclean  thing,  and  I  will  receive 
you,  and  will  be  a  Father  unto  you,  and  ye  shall  be  my  sons  and  daughters, 
saith  the  Lord  Almighty."  Do  you  want  any  stronger  language  than  that?  Do 
you  want  any  stricter  command?  for  it  is  the  word  of  God  to  us,  although  it  is 
recorded  here  in  the  Second  Epistle  of  Paul  to  the  Corinthians,  and  written 
eighteen  hundred  years  ago,  or  more,  to  the  ancient  Saints.  It  applies  equally 
to  us.  The  Bible  contains  the  law  of  God  to  this  people.  The  Lord  says: 
"Thou  shalt  take  the  things  which  thou  hast  received,  which  have  been  given 
unto  thee  in  my  Scriptures  for  a  law,  to  be  my  law  to  govern  my  Church,  and 
he  that  doeth  according  to  these  things  shall  be  saved,  and  he  that  doeth  them 
not  shall  be  damned,  if  he  continues."  Thus  you  see  the  Bible  is  in  force, 
and  this  is  the  word  of  the  Lord  to  the  people,  "  Come  out  from  among  them, 
and  be  ye  separate,  saith  the  Lord,  and  touch  not  the  unclean  thing."  Do  not 
assimilate  to  their  ways,  but  forsake  them,  and  in  the  name  of  reason  and  hu- 
manity, for  the  sake  of  the  kingdom  and  for  your  own  sakes,  do  not  let  it  be 
necessary  for  an  Elder  of  Israel  to  repeat  on  the  stand  what  has  been  stated 
this  day  in  your  hearing  by  Elder  Brigham  Young.  Let  it  not  be  necessary  to 
proclaim  these  evils  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  at  a  Conference  of  the  peo- 
ple; let  it  be  possible  when  we  come  together  for  the  Elders  who  speak  to  tes- 
tify of  the  good  works  of  the  people,  of  their  increasing  faith  in  God,  of  the 
power  of  God  manifest  in  their  midst,  and  to  exhort  the  people  to  continued 
faithfuluess  and  progress  in  the  right  path,  until  Zion  shall  be  redeemed,  the 
world  subdued,  and  evil  put  under  foot.  Zion  must  be  built  up  on  the  princi- 
ples of  righteousness,  truth,  and  obedience  to  the  laws  of  God;  not  an  ignor- 
ant nor  a  "blind  obedience  "  or  submission  to  the  requirements  of  heaven  or 
the  dictates  of  the  priesthood,  but  an  intelligent  submission  to  the  laws  of  God; 
for  the  Lord  has  said  that  he  "  requireth  the  heart  and  a  willing  mind,  and  the 
willing  and  the  obedient  shall  eat  the  good  of  the  land  of  Zion  in  these  last 
days ;  and  the  rebellious  shall  be  cut  off  out  of  the  land  of  Zion,  and  shall  be 
sent  away,  and  shall  not  inherit  the  land." 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  as  a  people,  and  help  us  to  be  united,  to  be  more 
faithful  and  upright,  to  live  our  religion,  so  that  our  righteousness  may  exceed 
that  of  the  Scribes  and  Pharisees  of  this  dispensation,  and  to  keep  aloof  from 
the  wicked  and  ungodly,  is  my  earnest  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


38 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


COUJNTSELOB   DANIEL   H.  WELLS. 

I  have  ever  felt  loth  to  bring  before  a  public  congregation  the  misdeeds 
of  a  few,  lest  a  credulous  public  be  led  to  suppose  that  evil  is  more  prevalent 
among  us  than  it  really  is;  and  for  this  reason,  perhaps,  if  for  no  other,  I 
feel  ashamed  that  such  things  as  have  been  referred  to  should  exist.  I  have 
felt  rather  that  people  should  turn  away  from  evil  and  cleave  to  the  Lord,  and 
maintain  that  better  character  before  him,  before  one  another  and  before  the 
world.  It  would  seem  as  though  it  were  necessary  to  bring  up  such  matters, 
on  the  principle,  perhaps,  that  a  wound  in  order  to  be  healed  should  be  prob- 
ed. But  it  would  seem,  too,  that  such  things  that  have  been  referred  to  to-day, 
if  they  do  exist  in  the  church,  that  while  they  should  not  pass  unrebuked, 
there  is  certainly  a  more  proper  time  and  place  to  deal  with  them  than  before 
a  public  congregation. 

We  are  gathering  out  from  the  midst  of  the  people  of  the  earth  to  be 
taught  in  the  ways  of  the  Lord,  and  to  walk  more  perfectly  in  his  paths,  that 
we  may  learn  righteousness,  and  come  to  a  knowledge  of  the  the  mind  and  the 
will  of  our  Father  who  is  in  heaven.  God  has  decreed  that  he  will  redeem  the 
earth  from  sin  and  wickedness,  and  establish  his  own  rule  and  dominion  there- 
on. And  it  is  necessary  in  order  to  build  up  the  kingdon  of  God  on  the  earth 
that  the  Lord  should  have  a  people  prepared  with  whom  he  can  work,  and  who 
will  be  submissive  and  ready  to  do  his  will.  We  pray  to  our  Father,  saying, 
"Thy  kingdom  come,  thy  will  be  done  on  earth,  as  it  is  done  in  heaven." 
Now,  how  can  this  come  to  pass  until  the  Lord  has  a  people  who  shall  be  wil- 
ling to  do  his  will,  and  who  shall  be  desirous  to  walk  in  the  path  that  he  marks 
out  for  them.  Do  we  realize  how  very  far  we  are  from  the  Lord's  ways;  how 
we  have  been  instructed  in  the  ways  of  the  world  through  the  traditions  and 
false  teachings  of  generations  that  are  passed,  and  which  we  have  inherited. 
We  had  been  taught  the  precepts  of  men  instead  of  the  commandments  of 
God.  Now,  however,  it  is  plain  that  the  Lord  is  endeavoring  to  work  a  refor- 
mation in  the  midst  of  his  children;  and  for  this  purpose  he  has  made  known 
his  laws  again,  laws  which  are  calculated  to  redeem  the  people  from  the 
thraldom  of  sin  and  iniquity  so  prevalent  in  the  world;  and  he  has  made  them 
applicable  to  this  generation,  hence  they  are  in  force  upon  the  human  family. 
He  has  brought  them  home  to  our  senses,  and  it  is  with  delight  that  we  behold 
them  in  contrast  with  the  erroneous  teachings  we  have  received  from  men  who 
have  professed  to  be  the  teachers  of  religion,  who  have  professed  to  be  the 
servants  of  God,  who  have  professed  to  stand  in  holy  places  and  to  lead  the 
people  in  the  way  of  life  and  salvation — I  say,  they  have  proposed  to  do  all 
these  things,  whereas  they  have  neither  the  authority  nor  the  knowledge  to  do 
so,  because  they  have  not  been  called  of  the  Lord  for  that  purpose,  nor  have 
they  the  revealed  will  of  heaven  to  direct  them.  They  have  sought  to  teach 
their  own  will ;  they  themselves  are  blind,  and  they  lead  the  blind,  and  they 
must  sooner  or  later  fall  into  the  pit  together.  Our  minds,  however,  have 
been  touched  with  the  Spirit  of  the  living  God,  made  manifest  unto  us.  And 
this  is  what  inspired  us  to  come  out  from  the  midst  of  the  world  to  these  val- 
leys of  the  mountains,  where  the  Lord  has  appointed  to  build  a  Zion  unto  his 
holy  name,  where  he  has  condescended  to  establish  his  authority,  and  also  to 
build  temples  in  which  to  attend  to  the  ordinances  of  his  house.    We  have 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


39 


been  gathered  from  the  midst  of  the  nations  with  this  object  in  view,  under  the 
inspiration  of  the  Almighty,  to  do  his  will  and  to  bring  to  pass  his  purposes 
and  establish  his  purposes  upon  the  earth.  Is  not  this  what  has  actuated  us 
and  brought  us  together  to  these  valleys?  If  there  was  any  other  motive  or 
design  I  do  not  know  what  it  was.  There  are  places  more  desirable  to  men 
than  these  sterile  valleys;  there  are  places  where  the  land  is  richer  and  where 
better  seasons  prevail,  and  where  more  profitable  results  can  be  obtained  in 
many  respects ;  for  this  is  not  so  very  desirable  a  country,  in  fact  a  great  portion 
of  it  is  very  undesirable  and  unprofitable  to  man  for  settlements.  But  it  is  not 
for  the  sake  of  wealth  that  we  have  come  here ;  it  is  to  be  taught  in  the  ways 
of  the  Lord,  and  to  walk  in  his  paths ;  it  is  to  keep  his  commandments,  to  do 
his  will  that  it. may  be  done  on  earth  as  it  is  done  in  heaven. 

Reference  has  been  made  this  afternoon  to  the  words,  "Come  out  of  her, 
my  people,  that  ye  be  not  partakers  of  her  sins  and  that  he  receive  not  of  her 
plagues."  Now,  we  have  gathered  bodily,  but  if  we  have  brought  with  us  the 
evils  that  are  so  prevalent  in  the  world,  have  we  gathered  in  the  spirit  as  the 
people  of  God  should  gather?  No.  We  might  just  as  well  have  stayed  in  the 
world,  and  it  would  have  been  better  indeed  to  have  done  so,  than  to  drag  the 
evils  of  the  world  into  the  midst  of  Zion.  Any  people  who  will  corrupt  their 
ways  before  the  Lord  are  bound  for  destruction,  according  to  the  words  of 
the  Lord  through  the  prophets.  The  principles  of  truth  and  virtue,  and  of 
temperance  and  honesty  are  the  foundation  of  exaltation,  and  just  as  certain 
as  people  will  practise  them  they  will  be  exalted;  and  just  as  sure  as  they 
indulge  in  iniquity,  it  will  lead  them  down  to  death  and  destruction,  and  that, 
too,  upon  natural  principles.  There  is  the  way  of  life,  and  there  is  the  way  of 
death  set  before  us,  and  it  is  for  us  to  choose  the  course  we  will  take;  it  is 
through  obedience  to  the  principles  of  life  we  shall  obtain  an  exaltation  in  the 
celestial  kingdom  and  upon  no  other.  If  a  person  ever  inherits  a  celestial 
glory  can  he  inherit  it  upon  any  other  principle  than  that  of  obeying  the  laws 
of  that  kingdom?  No;  because  all  kingdoms  have  laws,  and  a  person  can  only 
attain  to  the  glory  and  benefit  of  that  kingdom,  the  laws  of  which  he  observes 
to  keep.    This  is  the  way  I  read  and  understand  the  revelations  of  the  Lord. 

Now,  would  it  not  be  better  to  endeavor  to  find  out  the  will  of  God  out- 
Heavenly  Father  concerning  ourselves,  and  live  so  as  to  enjoy  the  light  of  his 
spirit  to  guide  us  in  the  duties  of  life  ?  I  think  it  certainly  would.  The  best 
investment  a  man  can  make  is  to  give  his  all  into  the  kingdom  of  God,  to  hold 
himself  on  the  altar  ready  for  the  Master's  use,  to  place  his  ability,  his  time 
and  means  at  his  command  to  further  the  purposes  of  his  Father  in  Heaven, 
and  thus  accomplish  his  design  and  purpose  in  bringing  him  into  this  state  of 
existence.  It  is  no  haphazard  matter  that  we  have  been  born  in  this  day  and 
generation,  a  day  in  which  God  has  revealed  his  mind  and  will  to  the  children 
of  men.  He  has  withheld  these  spirits  to  come  forth  when  he  should  again 
reveal  the  laws,  that  peradventure  there  might  be  those  upon  the  earth  who 
would  receive  his  laws  and  assist  to  bring  to  pass  his  purposes  and  designs, 
because  it  is  through  the  instrumentality  of  his  children  that  he  will  bring 
forth  his  kingdom  and  prepare  the  way  for  the  coming  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  to  rule.  For  he  will  rule,  even  from  the  rivers  to  the  ends  of  the  earth, 
For  the  earth  is  the  Lord's  and  the  fulness  thereof;  it  belongs  to  him;  it  is  his 


40 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


right  to  rule,  dictate,  and  lead  forth ;  and  it  is  only  a  question  of  time  when 
he  will  do  so. 

I  teel  well  in  this  work.  I  cannot  express  the  gratitude  that  I  feel  to  the 
Lord  that  he  has  made  manifest  unto  us  his  law,  his  will,  the  principles  of  the 
holy  gospel,  and  that  he  has  brought  them  home  to  our  understanding.  We 
have  the  privilege  of  learning  to  know  God,  whom  to  know,  the  Apostle  says, 
is  life  eternal.  Now,  if  to  know  him  is  life  eternal,  we  cannot  attain  to  eternal 
life  without  a  knowledge  of  him.  And  how  can  we  become  acquainted  with 
God  unless  he  reveals  himself?  He  has,  however,  revealed  himself  to  man  in 
this  our  day.  We  have  partially  become  acquainted  with  him;  we  know  who 
he  is,  and  who  we  are,  and  we  know  his  purpose  and  design  in  bringing  us 
into  this  state  of  existence.  It  is  for  us  to  learn  the  will  and  design  of  God 
our  Father  concerning  us  as  his  children  in  this  probation,  that  we  may  fulfil 
the  full  measure  thereof,  and  be  worthy  to  return  into  his  presence  from 
whence  we  have  come.  No  second  or  third  rate  glory  will  satisfy  the  Saints 
of  God.  Nothing  short  of  a  full  and  complete  salvation  in  the  celestial  king- 
dom of  God,  can  answer  their  desires  and  aspirations.  But  how  do  we  expect 
to  attain  to  that  glory  ?  As  I  have  already  observed,  there  is  no  other  way 
save  that  of  keeping  a  celestial  law.  This  is  plainly  set  forth  here  in  the  Book 
of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  it  having  been  revealed  to  the  servant  of  the 
Lord  in  the  day  and  age  in  which  we  live.  We  do  not  go  back  to  the  myste- 
rious ages  in  order  to  attain  this  knowledge.  God  has  revealed  it  to  us  in  this 
our  day;  and  although  we  do  believe  in  the  Bibie,  Book  of  Mormon,  and 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  nevertheless  we  have  also  the  living  oracles  here 
day  by  day  to  teach  us  in  the  ways  of  truth  and  righteousness.  Can  we  govern 
and  control  ourselves?  We  can  partly,  but  I  can  conceive  that  in  a  great 
many  instances  we  could  do  much  better.  Many  of  us,  no  doubt,  are  doing  as 
well  as  we  can,  and  yet  we  are  not  doing  as  well  as  we  know  how.  We, 
perhaps,  know  a  great  many  things  which  may  be  utterly  impossible  for  us  to 
bring  into  actual  practice  owing  to  surrounding  circumstances ;  but  yet  many 
are  doing  the  best  they  can,  and  we  should  all  the  time  try  to  do  as  well  as  we 
know  how.  Our  struggle  should  be  to  progress  in  the  knowledge  of  God  and 
the  things  pertaining  to  eternal  life,  that  our  course  may  be  onward  and  up- 
ward until  we  "all  come  in  the  unity  of  the  faith,  and  of  the  knowledge  of  the 
Son  of  God,  unto  a  perfect  man,  unto  the  measure  of  the  stature  of  the  fullness 
of  Christ."  It  is  true  we  are  imperfect;  the  traditions  of  our  fathers  are  upon 
us,  and  I  know  of  and  could  point  out  a  great  many  things  that  are  erroneous 
which  our  fathers  in  their  ignorance  taught  and  practised.  But  there  is  one 
thing  that  people  who  live  in  this  day  will  have  to  account  for,  and  that  is, 
their  presuming  to  administer  in  sacred  places  the  precepts  of  men  instead  of 
the  ordinances  which  pertain  to  the  house  of  God,  thereby  leading  people  away 
from  the  truth. 

We  live  in  a  peculiar  age  of  the  world.  We  live  in  a  day  when  the  God 
of  heaven  is  establishing  his  kingdom  to  bring  to  pass  his  purposes,  prepara- 
tory to  the  millennial  reign.  We  live  in  a  day  when  we  are  building  temples 
in  which  a  work  may  be  performed  for  those  who  have  died  in  ignorance  of 
the  gospel,  that  they  may  also  be  saved.  The  gospel  plan  reaches  out  to  and 
includes  all  the  children  of  men;  it  is  ample  to  save  all  who  will  bow  and  live 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


41 


in  obedience  to  its  teachings.  If  a  person  has  not  had  an  opportunity  of  re- 
ceiving the  gospel  in  this  world,  he  will  have  an  opportunity  of  doing  so  in  the 
next,  in  the  place  of  departed  spirits.  And  the  labor  of  the  Elders  of  Israel 
who  die  and  pass  into  the  Spirit  world,  clothed  upon  with  the  authority  of  the 
holy  priesthood — is  to  preach  to  them  the  principles  of  the  holy  gospel,  that 
they  may  live  according  to  God  in  the  spirit  and  be  judged  according  to  men 
in  the  flesh.  But  there  are  ordinances  which  have  to  be  performed  for  them 
on  the  earth.    It  is  for  this  purpose  we  are  building  temples. 

Well,  I  pray  God  to  help  us  to  live  our  religion,  because  in  it  there  is  life 
and  salvation — I  was  going  to  say,  in  this  world,  as  well  as  in  the  world  to 
come.  And  so  there  is.  The  principles  of  the  gospel  are  calculated  in  their 
nature  to  elevate  mankind  in  the  scale  of  human  existence,  and  are  fraught 
with  salvation  to  men  in  this  time  as  well  as  in  the  time  to  come.  I  pray  God 
to  bless  all  those  who  seek  to  work  righteousness  in  all  the  earth,  and  espe- 
ially  to  remember  the  household  of  faith,  I  pray  that  he  may  preserve  us  from 
stepping  into  bye  and  forbidden  paths ;  that  we  may  be  instruments  in  his 
hands  in  bringing  to  pass  his  purposes  and  in  upholding  the  principles  of 
truth,  because  there  are  but  few  who  are  disposed  to  do  this.  The  great 
tendency  of  the  age  is  to  wickedness  and  corruption,  and  there  are  but  few 
comparatively  who  will  receive  the  truth.  Let  us  sustain  these  principles  like 
an  unbroken  phalanx,  standing  shoulder  to  shoulder,  that  the  enemy  may  not 
make  an  inroad  in  our  midst.  In  union  there  is  strength.  If  therefore  we  can 
carry  out  these  things  unitedly,  we  will  be  able  to  exert  a  greater  power  not 
only  in  the  world  but  before  the  Lord. 

May  God  bless  us  to  this  end  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  an  anthem. 

Elder  Erastus  Snow  dismissed  by  prayer. 


2  P.  M. 

On  Monday  afternoon  the  Assembly  Hall  was  again  completely  filled. 

Singing  by  the  choir. 

Prayer  by  Elder  Joseph  E.  Taylor. 

PRESIDENT   JOSEPH  YOUNG. 

He  recollected  the  day  when  the  Church  consisted  of  a  mere  handful  of 
people  scattered  over  two  or  three  States  of  the  Union.  In  traveling  to  visit 
them  an  Elder  was  greeted  with  the  sound,  "  There  goes  a  Mormon!"  Now, 
from  Idaho  to  Arizona,  through  hundreds  of  miles>  the  settlements  of  the 
Saints  extend  and  the  people  greet  an  Elder  with  joy  and  friendship.  It  was 
the  work  of  the  Lord  and  caused  astonishment.  He  was  the  Author  of  it,  and 
his  hand  was  over  all,  guiding  the  destiny  of  the  greatest,  and  caring  even  for 
the  sparrow.    By  his  Spirit  we  were  guided,  and  it  was  to  carry  the  tidings  of 


42 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


his  work  that  we  traveled  or  sent  our  brethren  to  the  ends  of  the  earth.  The 
speaker  described  the  condition  of  the  world  in  regard  to  religion,  referring  to 
the  ignorance  and  fallacies  that  prevailed.  He  portrayed  the  Spirit  of  Christ 
and  its  effects  upon  the  human  heart,  and  expressed  his  full  confidence  in  the 
Lord  and  the  triumph  of  this  work.  Exhorted  both  young  and  old  to  plant 
within  their  hearts  a  reservoir  of  truth,  and  to  live  so  as  to  know  that  God 
lives,  and  that  they  were  accepted  of  him.  Whenever  Christian  sects  had  en- 
joyed a  portion  of  the  spirit  of  truth,  and  rejected  this  Gospel  when  it  came  to 
them,  they  had  lost  the  measure  of  the  spirit  previously  bestowed.  Those 
who  had  accepted  this  work  received  the  power  of  God  and  a  testimony  of  the 
truth  and  lost  the  fear  of  death.  He  bore  testimony  that  the  time  was  near 
when  God  would  shake  the  earth  and  all  things  would  tremble,  and  none  but 
the  righteous  could  stand.  He  wanted  to  know  that  his  brethren  and  sisters 
were  taking  a  course  that  was  pleasing  in  the  sight  of  God,  staying  themselves 
on  the  promises  of  God,  training  their  children — the  hope  of  Israel — in  the 
fear  of  the  Lord,  so  that  when  the  terrible  things  predicted  by  the  Savior  and 
the  prophets  take  place  before  their  eyes,  they  may  be  on  the  watch  tower  and 
prepared  for  every  emergency. 

ELDER  A.   O.  SMOOT 

Expressed  his  pleasure  at  the  instructions  that  had  been  imparted  during 
these  meetings.  Referring  to  the  sharp  reproofs  administered  in  the  forenoon 
to  some  of  the  Latter-day  "Mormons,"  it  occurred  to  him  that  there  were 
others  at  fault  besides  the  drinkers  and  swearers.  He  asked  himself  where 
were  the  priests  and  teachers  when  these  evils  were  taking  place.  If  the 
teachers  were  aware  of  these  things,  had  they  discharged  their  duty  towards 
the  transgressors  ?  If  they  had  done  this,  and  failing  to  work  a  reformation, 
had  they  reported  those  cases  to  the  Bishops?  If  so,  they  had  done  well,  and 
the  fault  would  lay  with  the  Bishop,  unless  he  attended  to  these  evil  doers.  He 
would  ask,  why  not  apply  the  remedy?  Let  the  erring  brother  who  would  not 
reform  go  in  peace  and  no  longer  be  held  in  fellowship  to  spread  the  evil  ex- 
ample. He  thought  perhaps  some  of  the  officers  slept  upon  their  rights  and 
duties,  and  neglected  the  injunctions  of  the  revelations  concerning  these  mat- 
ters. If  we  allowed  these  evils  to  exist,  their  influence  would  be  demoraliz- 
ing. All  are  subject  to  weaknesses,  but  when  we  are  once  overcome  thereby, 
it  should  prove  a  warning,  and  we  should  take  care  not  to  be  ever  again  over- 
taken in  a  similar  way.  In  the  course  of  forty  years'  experience  he  had  seen 
men  holding  official  position  in  the  priesthood  committing  the  evils  spoken  of, 
and  their  faults  had  been  let  slip.  Why  were  these  cases  not  alluded  to  ?  Why 
was  not  the  inside  of  the  platter  cleaned?  There  was  a  fault  somewhere;  he 
would  leave  others  to  say  where  it  was.  God  had  commenced  to  establish  his 
kingdom  on  the  earth,  and  had  so  organized  his  priesthood  that  these  irregu- 
larities could  be  checked  and  wickedness  purged  out.  The  speaker  bore  testi- 
mony that  this  was  the  kingnom  that  Daniel  saw]  in  spite  of  their  imperfec- 
tions, this  was  the  people  whom  the  Lord  cherished ;  this  was  the  priesthood 
that  would  regulate  all  things  according  to  the  heavenly  pattern;  and  many 
before  him  in  the  congregation  were  destined  to  be  priests  and  kings  unto  the 
Most  High  God.    He  had  nought  but  blessings  in  his  heart  for  the  faithful, 


TWO  days'  meetings. 


43 


and  he  besought  the  Lord  to  preserve  them  from  the  evils  that  predominate  in 
the  world,  enable  them  to  magnify  their  calling,  that  Israel  might  triumph  and 
the  enemy  be  placed  beneath  their  feet. 

ELDER   JOHN"   VAN  COTT 

Referred  to  the  prophesies  concerning  the  redemption  of  the  remnants  of 
Jacob,  and  rejoiced  to  hear  of  the  work  which  was  being  accomplished  among 
them.  While  Elder  Orson  Pratt  was  speaking,  he  remembered  that  he  (the 
speaker),  when  a  boy  of  sixteen,  had  the  privilege  of  witnessing  the  baptism 
of  Elder  Pratt,  and  was  the  only  member  of  the  Church  now  living  who  wit- 
nessed it.  It  was  forty-nine  years  ago  last  September.  It  was  some  years" 
after  that  he  himself  was  baptized,  but  at  that  time  he  received  a  witness  of 
the  truth,  and  it  never  left  him  wherever  he  went.  If  it  were  not  for  that  tes- 
timony he  would  not  be  here  this  day.  It  was  a  similar  witness  that  had  in- 
duced the  Saints  from  every  part  of  the  earth  to  gather  to  these  mountains. 
It  was  time  that  we  should  become  united  and  prepared  for  those  important 
events  predicted  which  were  near  at  hand.  We  should  refrain  from  evil,  ob- 
tain the  power  to  discern  the  signs  of  the  times  and  of  the  coming  of  the  Son 
of  Man,  cultivate  the  spirit  of  meekness,  forbearance  and  long  suffering,  and 
seek  to  God  for  wisdom  that  we  might  be  prepared  for  the  great  change  that  is 
to  come  on  the  earth. 

The  choir  sang  an  anthem- 
Benediction  by  Elder  Orson  Pratt. 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE, 


Salt  Lake  City,  Tuesday,  April  6,  A.  D.  1880. 

The  Fiftieth  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  convened  in  the  Large  Tabernacle  at  10  A.  m.  An  immense  audi- 
ence assembled,  nearly  filling  the  huge  building,  galleries  included. 

On  the  stand  were: 

President  John  Taylor,  and  Elders  Orson  Pratt,  Wilford  Woodruff, 
Charles  C.  Rich,  Erastus  Snow,  Lorenzo  Snow,  F.  D.  Richards,  Brigham 
Young,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Albert  Carrington  and  Moses  Thatcher,  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles. 

Counselor  to  the  Twelve,  Daniel  H.  Wells. 

Patriarch  John  Smith. 

Of  the  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies,  Joseph  Young,  Horace  S.  Eldredge, 
Levi  W.  Haucock  and  John  Van  Cott. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishops,  Edward  Hnnter,  Leonard  W.  Hardy  and 
Robert  T.  Burton. 

The  Presidency  of  Salt  Lake  and  other  Stakes,  with  members  of  High 
Councils,  Bishops  and  leading  Elders  from  various  parts  of  the  Territory. 
Conference  was  called  to  order  by  President  John  Taylor. 
Choir  sang: 

' '  Great  God  attend  while  Zion  sings 
The  joy  that  from  thy  presence  springs." 

ELDER   ORSON"  PRATT. 

O  God,  the  Eternal  Father  of  Heaven  and  of  earth,  we  thy  children,  thy 
sons  and  daughters,  have  assembled  ourselves  together  on  this  the  6th  day  of 
April — the  day  appointed  and  set  apart  for  the  General  Conference  of  thy 
Saints  from  year  to  year — we  have  assembled  in  this  large  and  commodious 
Tabernacle,  for  the  purpose  of  commemorating  this  day,  and  of  hearing  the 
words  that  may  be  spoken  from  this  stand,  and  also  of  giving  in  our  votes  and 
our  voices  unitedly  in  relation  to  all  business  matters  that  pertain  to  the 
Church  of  God  here  on  the  earth  that  may  be  transacted  on  this  occasion. 

We  thank  thee,  Holy  Father,  that  we  have  been  permitted  to  receive  the 
tulness  of  the  everlasting  Gospel  revealed  anew  in  this  great  last  dispensation 
of  the  fulness  of  times.  We  thank  thee  that  thou  hast  organized  thy  Church 
and  established  the  kingdom  that  was  spoken  of  by  Daniel  the  prophet,  and 
other  holy  men  that  lived  in  ancient  times,  in  fulfilment  of  their  words,  and 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


45 


that  it  has  been  organized  to  stand  forever,  never  more  to  be  destroyed  or 
given  into  the  hands  of  other  people. 

And  we  thank  thee,  Holy  Father,  that  in  the  midst  of  all  the  persecutions 
and  difficulties  we  have  encountered  during  the  fifty  years  now  being  brought 
to  a  close,  that  thou  hast  sustained  us,  that  thou  hast  not  utterly  cast  us  off, 
that  thou  hast  not  suffered  us  to  become  victims  to  our  enemies  and  to  those 
that  have  persecuted  us ;  but  that  thou  hast  sustained  thy  Saints,  and  brought 
them  into  these  mountain  valleys,  and  planted  them  in  the  midst  of  the  fast- 
nesses of  these  everlasting  hills,  and  spread  them  forth  upon  the  right  and 
upon  the  left,  until  we  have  become  a  great  and  a  numerous  people. 

We  thank  thee  for  the  great  gathering  which  thou  hast  commanded  and 
inaugurated  in  this  dispensation — the  gathering  of  thine  elect,  the  gathering  of 
the  Saints  of  the  Most  High — that  we  have  been  permitted  to  come  from  all 
the  various  nations  wherever  the  Gospel  has  been  preached  and  churches 
raised  up,  and  establish  ourselves  in  these  mountain  vales. 

We  thank  thee,  O  Lord,  for  all  thy  peculiar  care  and  thy  great  mercies 
that  have  been  extended  to  this  people.  Notwithstanding  our  many  imper- 
fections, our  many  follies  and  sins,  thine  eyes  have  been  upon  us  for  good. 
Thou  hast  raised  us  up;  thou  hast  strengthened  our  hands;  thou  hast  encour- 
aged us  in  our  work;  thou  hast  visited  us  by  the  manifestations  of  thy  Spirit; 
thou  hast  given  revelations  from  time  to  time  to  strengthen  thy  servants  and 
encourage  thy  Saints.  And  we  thank  thee  for  all  these  blessings  in  the  name 
of  thy  beloved  Son.  And  as  the  fiftieth  year  since  the  organization  of  thy 
Church  is  now  about  drawing  to  a  close,  we  pray  that  thy  peculiar  blessings 
may  continue  to  rest  upon  thy  people,  and  that  we  may  be  able  to  esteem  the 
past  year  since  our  General  Conference  as  a  year  of  jubilee  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  And  we  pray  that  as  the  close  of  this  year  of  jubilee  will  come  to  an 
end  this  day,  notwithstanding  the  close  thereof,  that  we  may,  in  all  our  future 
years,  humble  ourselves  before  the  Lord  our  God  and  keep  thy  command- 
ments blameless,  and  walk  in  all  thy  ordinances  and  the  institutions  of  thy 
kingdom,  and  serve  the  Lord  our  God,  and  be  united  more  perfectly  according 
to  the  law  which  thou  hast  given  concerning  the  union  of  thy  people. 

Bless,  we  humbly  pray,  thy  servant  Brother  Taylor.  Thou  hast  raised 
him  up  by  thy  power,  and  placed  him  in  a  high  and  important  position  in  thy 
Church,  to  preside,  in  connection  with  his  brethren,  the  Apostles,  over  the 
affairs  of  this  great  latter-day  Kingdom.  We  pray  that  thou  wilt  inspire  him 
with  great  and  important  knowledge  and  information  for  the  welfare  and  hap- 
piness and  benefit  of  the  Saints  over  whom  he  presides.  Bless  him  abun- 
dantly with  the  spirit  of  revelation ;  bless  him  with  the  visions  of  eternity; 
bless  him  with  knowledge  that  comes  down  from  heaven ;  bless  him  with  the 
discernment  of  thy  spirit;  bless  him  in  all  things,  and  qualify  him  for  the  im- 
portant and  high  position  in  this  thy  Church  and  thy  Kngdom,  in  this  thine 
earth. 

Bless  his  brethren,  the  Apostles ;  fill  them  with  the  Holy  Ghost,  inspire 
their  hearts  . from  on  high,  and  give  unto  them  the  spirit  of  counsel  and  wis- 
dom, that  they  may  impart  unto  these  thy  people  that  which  shall  benefit  them 
and  build  them  up  in  their  most  holy  faith,  Bless  all  the  Presidents  of  the 
Stakes  of  Zion  and  their  Counselors,  and  also  the  Bishops,  and  also  the  vari- 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


ous  wards  in  every  Stake.  Bless  them  with  inspiration,  with  the  knowledge 
of  God,  with  an  understanding  of  their  several  duties  and  callings ;  and  may 
thy  servants,  from  the  highest  to  the  least,  in  all  the  various  councils  of  the 
priesthood,  be  inspired  from  on  high,  and  thus  be  able  to  carry  out  the  great 
purposes  which  thou  hast  intended  concerning  the  everlasting  priesthood  again 
sent  down  from  heaven  and  conferred  upon  man. 

We  pray,  O  Lord,  that  the  work  of  the  gathering  of  thy  Saints  may  con- 
tinue, that  thine  Israel  may  be  gathered  from  all  nations  and  peoples  under  the 
whole  heavens,  to  dwell  in  these  mountain  valleys,  and  become  a  great  people, 
that  the  borders  of  Zion  may  be  stretched  out,  and  the  cords  of  Zion  be 
strengthened,  and  thy  people  be  prepared  with  one  heart  and  one  mind  for 
that  great  redemption  which  thou  hast  promised  to  them  in  the  latter  days. 

Let  thy  blessing,  O  Lord,  be  upon  this  congregation,  upon  every  man, 
every  woman,  every  child  and  every  person  that  attends  whose  heart  is  desir- 
ous of  serving  the  Lord  his  God.  May  the  spirit  of  inspiration  rest  upon 
them  all.  May  the  Spirit  of  the  Most  High  impart  peace  and  consolation  to 
all  who  may  be  sick  and  afflicted,  that  are  not  permitted  to  meet  with  us  this 
day — may  they  find  favor  in  the  sight  of  God,  may  thine  angels  be  sent  forth 
to  minister  unto  them,  that  they  may  be  comforted,  raised  up  and  healed,  and 
that  the  destroyer  may  be  rebuked  from  the  midst  of  this  people  in  every  set- 
tlement. 

O  Lord,  we  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  during  the  convention  of 
our  Conference  from  day  to  day  until  the  close  thereof,  that  the  Lord  our  God 
may  be  in  the  midst  of  this  people,  that  thine  angels  may  be  round  about  us, 
that  the  heavenly  hosts  may  rejoice  over  us,  that  the  vision  of  our  minds  may 
be  opened  to  contemplate  the  things  of  God;  and  and  that  all  who  speak  may 
speak  by  the  inspiration  of  thy  Spirit,  and  all  be  edified  together.  We  ask 
thee,  O  Lord,  to  let  thy  blessing  be  upon  all  the  missionaries  that  are  sent 
forth  into  the  nations  of  the  earth,  that  they  may  go  in  power,  go  in  strength, 
filled  with  the  Spirit  and  power  of  God,  filled  with  courage  and  holy  boldness 
to  carry  forth  among  the  children  of  men  the  glorious  Gospel  of  the  Son  of 
Man,  revealed  in  these  latter  days  for  the  benefit  of  the  human  family. 

Hear  us,  O  Lord,  in  these  our  supplications.  Be  with  us  in  our  delibera- 
tions. Assist  us  in  this  Conference,  and  smile  upon  us  from  thy  holy  habita- 
tion. And  when  we  have  fully  accomplished  the  work  which  thou  hast  given 
us  to  do  in  this  probation,  may  we  be  prepared  to  go  into  thy  kingdom,  behold 
thy  face,  and  receive  that  welcome  plaudit,  "  Come,  ye  blessed  of  my  Father, 
and  inherit  the  kingdom  prepared  for  you  from  before  the  foundation  of  the 
world."  These,  together  with  all  other  blessings  which  we  should  pray  for, 
we  seek  for  at  this  time,  not  in  our  own  name,  but  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Choir  sang: 

"  When  earth  in  bondage  long  had  lain, 

And  darkness  o'er  the  nations  reigned. " 
President  John  Taylor  announced  that  important  business  would  be 
transacted  to-morrow,  in  which  the  Salt  Lake,  Utah,  Davis  and  Weber  Stakes, 
were  particularly  interested,  and  he  wished  the  presidents  of  these  Stakes  and 
as  many  others  as  possible,  to  be  present. 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  GONFERENCE. 


47 


ELDER   FRANKLIN   D.  RICHARDS. 

It  is  very  pleasing  to  find  that  we  have  so  peaceful  and  favorable  an  op- 
portunity, in  every  general  respect,  of  meeting  together  on  this  the  fiftieth  an- 
niversary of  the  organization  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  upon  the  earth  in  this  the  last  dispensation.  Let  us  endeavor  to  calm 
our  minds,  call  in  the  wandering  thoughts  and  exercise  our  faith,  that  we  may 
receive  an  abundant  measure  of  the  Holy  Spirit  to  rest  upon  us;  for  if  we 
seek  it  I  am  sure  the  Lord  will  be  greatly  pleased  to  bestow  it  upon  us  during 
this  Conference.  When  we  contemplate,  in  the  light  of  history,  what  fifty 
years  have  done  towards  bringing  forward  the  work  of  the  Lord  in  the  earth, 
and  of  disseminating  a  knowledge  of  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  which  he 
has  revealed,  .and  observe  the  results  that  these  labors  and  efforts  have  ac- 
complished toward  building  up  the  Kingdom  of  God,  we  have  reason,  if  we 
can  only  sense  it,  to  feel  that  he  has  done  great  things  for  his  people,  whereof 
we  ought  to  be  very  glad.  Indeed,  to  contemplate  it  in  its  various  bearings, 
and  the  relationship  which  this  work  sustains  to  the  whole  human  family  and 
to  the  spirits  departed,  it  is  indeed  so  wonderful  that  we  might  exclaim,  like 
one  of  old,  "What  hath  God  wrought!  " 

As  this  is  our  jubilee  year,  let  us,  as  Israel  did  in  ancient  times,  look  back 
and  recount  our  doings,  review  our  condition  and  surroundings.  On  every 
fiftieth  year  they  redeemed  their  brethren  that  were  in  bondage,  the  homestead 
that  had  been  pledged  for  the  necessaries  of  life;  and  they  reviewed  their 
business  transactions  of  previous  years,  that  they  might  place  everything  right 
between  themselves  and  before  the  Lord.  Even  the  strangers  that  were 
among  them  were  remembered,  for,  saith  the  Lord,  "  Thou  shalt  neither  vex  a 
stranger,  nor  oppress  him:  for  ye  were  strangers  in  the  land  of  Egypt."  Let 
us  seek  for  the  spirit  of  jubilee  as  designed  of  God,  and  as  shall  be  best,  most 
happily  and  profitably  entertained  by  man.  For,  indeed,  if  fifty  years  have 
brought  to  pass  the  creation  and  existence  of  a  Territory  with  over  a  hundred 
thousand  of  our  people  in  it,  what  shall  the  next  fifty  years  produce  by  the 
blessing  of  the  Most  High  upon  the  exertions  yet  to  be  made,  if  we  shall  but 
abide  in  his  favor,  and  thus  inherit  his  multiplied  blessings !  We  are  not  apt 
to  realize  the  achievements  of  the  past,  when  we  but  consider  the  period  of  a 
day,  a  week,  or  even  a  year.  If  we  watch  the  hands  on  a  clock  we  scarcely 
discern  that  they  move;  but  if  we  look  once  in  an  hour,  we  note  the  lapse  of 
time  and  observe  the  events  that  have  occurred  during  that  hour.  So  let  us 
contemplate  upon  the  dial  of  time  a  few  of  the  events  that  have  transpired 
with  us  as  a  community,  and  recount  with  thanksgiving  and  praise  some  of 
those  things  which  God  has  done  for  the  deliverancs  of  his  people. 

History  informs  us  that  when  the  Church  in  Missouri  was  in  straitened 
circumstances,  being  sorely  distressed,  and  the  enemies  of  God's  people 
camped  round  about ;  at  the  time  appointed  for  the  onset,  the  Lord  sent  thun- 
ders, lightnings,  rain,  hail  and  tempests,  with  such  a  destructive  flood,  that 
the  mob  found  enough  to  do  to  save  their  own  lives  and  attend  to  the  safety  of 
their  families;  several  of  them  did  perish.  This  was  in  the  vicinity  of  Fishing 
River  in  1834. 

It  will  be  remembered  by  those  who  knew  the  Prophet  Joseph,  that  he  was 
worried  as  a  lamb  is  worried  by  the  wolves ;  that  he  scarcely  knew  rest  or 


4s 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


peace  because  of  the  wicked,  who  sought  him  continually  for  their  prey.  The 
Lord  raised  up  a  man  who  was  a  judge  in  the  land,  whose  name  was  Stephen 
A.  Douglas.  He  favored  this  people  in  that  he  gave  to  them  even  and  fair- 
handed  justice  in  his  court,  so  that  they  might  enjoy,  in  some  small  degree, 
the  rights,  privileges,  liberties  and  powers  guaranteed  to  them  by  the  Constitu- 
tion and  laws  of  their  country.  This  fair  and  honorable  administration  of 
justice  in  behalf  of  the  Prophet  and  some  of  his  friends,  won  for  him  the  re- 
spect of  the  Saints  and  the  favor  of  the  Lord,  insomuch  that  Joseph  told  him, 
if  he  would  continue  to  protect  the  rights  of  this  people,  he  should  go  on  to 
greatness  and  power  and  attain  to  his  utmost  ambition  in  righteousness  before 
the  Lord.  He  became  a  Senator  in  Congress,  and  finally  a  candidate  for  the 
Presidency;  and  with  the  goal  of  his  hopes  fairly  in  view,  like  the  dog  in  the 
fable,  who,  while  crossing  the  stream  with  a  piece  of  meat  in  his  mouth,  saw 
the  shadow  of  it  in  the  water,  and  grasping  at  it,  dropped  the  substance,  so 
did  he;  in  the  political  crusades  against  us  he  declared  himself  in  favor  of 
putting  the  knife  into  the  loathsome  ulcer  of  "  Mormonism,"  and  cutting  it  out 
of  the  side  of  the  body  politic.  And  what  became  of  him?  He  went  to  the 
Convention  in  Carolina,  and  there  his  party  split  and  he  failed  to  get  the  nomi- 
nation. Under  this  disappointment  his  light  grew  dim,  and  a  short  period  of 
Senatorial  labor  ended  his  mortal  career.  Whereas,  if  he  had  persevered  in 
maintaining  the  right,  he  might  have  gone  on  to  the  fulfilment  of  Joseph's 
prophesy,  reaching  the  acme  of  his  ambition,  and  made  for  himself  in  that 
position  a  name  that  would  have  graced  and  honored  the  pages  of  history  for 
all  time  to  come. 

Let  us  look  a  little  farther,  and  see  what  God  has  done  for  us  in  some 
other  instances.  About  the  time  when  we  were  considered  no  longer  fit  to 
have  place  among  mankind  in  the  States,  when  the  people  around  had  deter- 
mined that  we  must  go  hence,  and  when  we  had  laid  our  course  for  the  moun- 
tains, who  should  rise  up  and,  acting  in  the  interest  of  Government,  impose 
upon  us  a  most  extraordinary  and  destructive  measure,  seeking  to  encompass 
our  destruction  in  the  wilderness,  but  the  celebrted  Senator,  Thomas  H.  Ben- 
toh,  who  had  acquired  the  cognomen  of  "  Old  Bullion."  This  was  accom- 
plished by  a  requisition  on  our  President,  Brigham  Young,  demanding  that 
five  hundred  of  our  young  men  should  be  called  out  of  our  camps  to  go  to  war 
to  help  to  make  the  conquest  of  Mexico.  Did  we  refuse  compliance?  Not  at 
all ;  but,  on  the  contrary,  in  the  midst  of  the  most  adverse,  destitute  and  trying 
circumstances,  it  was  submitted  to;  and  the  full  complement  of  our  young 
men  went  forth  and  did  honor  to  the  arms  of  the  nation,  and  God  blessed  them 
and  preserved  them,  that  not  one  of  them  fell  by  the  hands  of  a  deadly  foe. 
But  what  became  of  the  Senator  who,  in  the  wickedness  of  his  heart,  did  this? 
I  will  not  say  that  God  took  him  away  because  of  his  injustice  to  us,  but  he 
was  soon  after  afflicted  with  a  cancer  in  his  inner  parts,  which  caused  his 
death. 

You  remember  what  was  called  the  Buchanan  War— the  speculators'  war? 
or  war  on  the  Treasury— when  a  detail  of  picked  troops,  comprising  the  flower 
of  the  United  States  army,  came  out  to  fight  the  "Mormons."  But  the 
Prophet  told  them  to  stop  at  Fort  Bridger,  and  they  stopped  there  until  their 
ardor  cooled,  being  blockaded  in  the  snow,  and  having  to  consume  some  of 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


49 


their  mules  for  food,  while  we  herded  their  cattle  for  them.  Nor  did  they 
move  the  following  season  until  the  President  of  the  United  States  sent  out 
his  commissioners  to  negotiate  with  President  Young,  when  they  were  allowed 
to  pass  quietly  through  our  city  and  go  to  Camp  Floyd.  Do  we  forget  these 
things?  Or  do  we  remember  that  the  forest  of  polished  bayonets  which  glis- 
tened in  the  sunlight,  looking  terrible  indeed,  became  as  harmless  as  the  trees 
that  grow,  and  afterwards,  when  they  broke  camp,  helped  to  furnish  us  with 
steel  and  iron  and  other  articles  which  we  then  greatly  needed.  These  are 
some  of  the  Lord's  doings.   We  should  not  and  cannot  overlook  nor  forget  them. 

Who  does  not  remember  the  deadly  strife  that  ensued  in  the  United  States, 
when  father  and  son  went  to  war  against  each  other,  when  the  armies  of  the 
North  and  South  met  each  other  in  mortal  combat?  Through  this  terrible  or- 
deal we  were  here  in  these  mountains  safe  and  secure ;  we  did  not  have  to 
take  part  in  the  terrible  conflict,  nor  to  bleed  upon  the  battlefield.  Has  not  the 
Lord  been  very  kind  to  us,  even  while  he  has  permitted  the  wicked  to  afflict 
and  chastise  us?  There  are  other  things  I  wish  to  call  your  attention  to, 
which  loom  up  before  me. 

Alter  we  came  here  and  had,  by  the  wisdom  and  counsel  of  God,  estab- 
lished ourselves — not  by  roaming  the  hills  hunting  for  minerals  and  will-o'- 
the-wisps,  but  by  making  homes,  gardens  and  orchards,  beautifying  and  tilling 
the  land,  and  by  making  families  comfortable  and  our  homes  desirable,  officers 
were  sent  here  by  the  Government  to  rule  over  us;  and  they,  in  the  evil  spirit 
of  their  hearts,  began  to  persecute  and  afflict  us.  You  remember  that  a  gov- 
ernor was  sent  here  by  the  name  of  Shaeffer,  and  that  the  great  distinguishing 
act  of  his  official  career  was  the  issuing  of  a  proclamation  forbidding  this  peo- 
ple to  bear  arms  and  commanding  them  to  refrain  from  making  any  military 
display  in  their  celebration  of  the  Fourth  of  July,  and  that,  too,  when  the  Con- 
stitution of  our  country  distinctly  says  that  "the  right  of  the  people  to  keep  and 
bear  arms  shall  not  be  infringed,"  and  we,  in  an  Indian  country!  But  what 
became  of  this  unrighteous  man?  He  had  hardly  seen  the  order  carried 
into  execution,  when  his  bones  were  carried  away  to  be  buried  with  those  of 
his  kindred  somewhere  in  the  States. 

Who  does  not  remember  Judge  McKean,  who  came  here  with  power  from 
Government  and  with  the  authority  of  the  Methodist  Church,  as  a  missionary 
jurist,  to  oppress  and  humble  us  before  the  nation  and  before  the  world?  Who 
of  us  can  forget  the  morning  when  he  ignominiously  dragged  President  Young 
to  his  Court  over  a  stable,  to  answer  certain  illegal  indictments  and  false 
charges?  During  about  a  year  and  a  half  of  official  career,  this  man,  by  per- 
verting and  misapplying  the  laws,  and  by  utterly  disregarding  the  well  estab- 
lished principles  of  jurisprudence,  procured  convictions  of  some  of  our  citi- 
zens through  illegal  juries.  But  a  single  case  carried  up  to  the  Supreme 
Court  at  Washington  reversed  his  decisions,  invalidated  the  greater  part  of  his 
official  acts,  and  made  President  Young  a  free  man,  after  having  been  confined 
a  prisoner  in  his  own  house  for  several  months.  Where  is  this  judicial  lumi- 
nary now?  "This  day  thy  soul  shall  be  required  of  thee,"  was  written  upon 
the  wall  of  his  habitation,  and  he  has  gone  to  his  account;  but  his  words  to 
President  Young  are  still  fresh  in  our  minds—"  While  the  case  at  bar  is  called 
'The  People  versus  Brigham  Young,'  its  other  and  real  title  is,  'Federal  Au- 

4 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


thority  versus  Polygamic  Theocracy."  Also  his  tantalization  of  Thomas 
Hawkins,  when  he  had  him  by  maladministration  in  his  power:  "  I  am  sorry 
for  you,  very  sorry;  you  may  not  think  so  now,  but  I  shall  try  to  make  you 
think  so  by  the  mercy  which  I  shall  show  you  " — which  mercy  consisted  of  a 
sentence  of  five  hundred  dollars  fine  and  three  years  imprisonment. 

When  we  look  back  upon  these  things,  which  give  us,  however,  but  a  faint 
glimmer  of  the  wisdom  of  God  in  delivering  and  preserving  his  people;  with- 
out arrogating  anything  to  ourselves,  we  may  truly  say,  "  God  has  glorified 
himself  and  exalted  his  people."  Have  we  not  reason  for  thankfulness,  and 
can  we  help  feeling  that  he  has  acknowledged,  at  least,  in  the  dispensations 
of  his  providence  to  us,  that  this  is  his  work  and  that  we  are  the  children  of 
his  covenant?  We  are  to-day  in  the  hands  of  God,  our  Father,  whose  mer- 
cies are  abundant,  and  whose  blessings  are  multiplied  upon  us.  Let  us  then 
take  into  consideration  the  goodness  of  our  God,  his  preservation  of  us  in 
hours  of  trial  and  danger,  and  in  every  circumstance  and  condition  of  life ;  for 
we  have  individually  as  well  as  collectively  the  greatest  reason  to  praise  his 
holy  name  for  the  grace  we  have  received  at  his  hands,  in  sustaining  us  and 
helping  us  to  thus  far  overcome.  The  Lord  is  having  a  people  which  is  a  tried 
people.  Let  us  rejoice  that  we  are  in  the  crucible  and  counted  worthy  to  be 
tried.  But,  my  brethren,  let  us  rise  up  in  holy  boldness  against,  and  put  away 
far  from  us,  the  accursed  things  which  the  wicked  have  brought  among  us, 
and  which  to-day  are  fostered  and  encouraged  by  them  in  our  midst;  even  as 
drunkenness,  whoredom,  stealing,  and  kindred  vices,  that  are  fast  becoming 
popular  among  many  of  our  youth,  whose  hearts  are  sought  thereby  to  be 
drawn  away  from  the  Lord  by  corruption  and  wickedness.  It  is  time  the  Elders 
of  Israel  were  putting  on  the  sword  of  the  Spirit,  to  do  battle  against  these  things. 

The  Lord  has  said  that  Zion  shall  be  redeemed  by  judgment,  but  her  con- 
verts by  righteousness.  He  has  strictly  enjoined  upon  us  that  we  shall  not  go 
to  war  with  our  enemies.  "Judgment  is  mine,"  saith  the  Lord,  "and  I  will 
repay."  Then  we  have  not  time  nor  occasion  to  go  to  war,  nor  to  study  the 
means  of  destruction  and  death;  on  the  contrary,  we  are  called  upon,  and  it  is 
our  pleasing  duty,  to  study  and  develop  the  elements  of  life — the  spirit  of  faith 
in  the  everlasting  Gospel.  What  better  can  we  do,  in  this  our  year  of  jubilee, 
in  token  of  our  gratitude  to  God  for  the  abundance  of  his  favors  bestowed 
upon  us,  than  to  do  good  to  each  other,  and  to  make  glad  the  hearts  of  the 
poor  in  Israel?  The  authorities  of  the  Church  are  thinking  of  doing  some- 
thing by  way  of  aiding  such  as  are  needy.  The  officers  of  the  Perpetual  Emi- 
grating Fund  Company  calcucate  to  relieve  in  part  the  worthy  poor,  who  are 
owing  for  their  emigration ;  and  as  President  Taylor  suggested  in  public  on 
Sunday,  let  us  all  do  something  to  aid  the  poor  and  make  the  hearts  of  the 
Saints  rejoice,  and  see  that  no  one  is  allowed  to  suffer.  This  same  charitable 
feeling  should  extend  through  all  our  Co-operative  Institutions;  our  rich 
brethren  merchants  who  have  got  debts  owing  to  them  by  the  worthy  poor, 
who  are  struggling  with  adversity  in  the  world  for  a  subsistence,  let  them  get 
out  their  accounts  and  send  them  receipted,  either  in  full  or  in  part,  to  their 
debtors,  as  the  case  may  be,  with  a  note  of  forgiveness,  telling  them  to  lift  up 
their  heads  and  rejoice,  and  the  Lord  will  bless  them  for  it.  Let  the  rich  men 
in  our  Territory,  who  have  been  blessed  to  accumulate  means,  and  who  hold 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


51 


notes  drawing  interest  against  their  poor  brethren,  look  over  their  papers,  and 
where  they  find  a  note  given  by  their  poor  but  worthy  brother,  who  has  per- 
haps mortgaged  his  home  and  is  in  danger  of  being  sold  out,  let  them  forgive 
the  debt,  and  thus  our  rich  brethren  may  help  fulfil  the  prophecy  that  the  poor 
shall  rejoice  in  the  Holy  One  of  Israel.  There  are  those  who  have  borrowed 
money,  and  whose  homes  stand  pledged  for  the  payment  thereof,  who  have  in- 
curred debt  through  misfortune,  or  hard  times,  or  perhaps  through  sickness, 
and  who  deserve  relief — I  would  say  to  all  the  brethren  who  may  be  the  cred- 
itors of  such  persons,  go  to  and  make  yourselves  their  benefactors,  and  estab- 
lish the  principle  in  the  hearts  of  God's  people — "Make  to  yourselves  friends 
with  the  mammon  of  unrighteousness,  riiat,  when  ye  fail,  they  may  receive 
you  into'everlasting  habitations."  For  your  riches  may  take  the  wings  of  the 
morning,  when  you  least  expect  it,  and  fly  away;  or  they  may  burn  up  and  you 
be  left  destitute. 

And  if  the  people  of  the  Territory  everywhere,  who  have  means,  and  who 
have  poor  relations  or  friends  in  the  old  country— for  there  are  families  scat- 
tered throughout  those  lands  who  perhaps  never  have  a  chance  to  attend  a 
meeting  of  the  Saints — would  wake  up  and  send  for  a  ship-load  or  two  of 
them,  not  those  who  are  able  to  bring  themselves,  but  the  poor,  whose  hearts 
beat  low  and  whose  hopes  have  become  forlorn,  and  who  despair  of  ever  get- 
ting out  on  their  own  account.  This  too  would  be  a  fitting  and  proper  thing  to 
do  on  this  rare  occasion,  and  one  that  would  bring  blessing  and  joy  to  all  con- 
cerned; and  thus  the  glad  tidings  of  our  jubilee  would  reach  to  those  afar  off, 
and  they  would  be  made  to  know  that  there  is  a  people  on  the  earth  who  re- 
member their  God,  their  covenants  and  their  poor  afflicted  brethren. 

There  is  a  great  deal  that  might  be  said  on  this  subject,  but  I  will  leave  it 
to  be  said  by  my  brethren  who  are  yet  to  speak.  I  perhaps  ought  to  say  that 
the  object  of  granting  relief  to  those  indebted  to  the  P.  E.  Fund  Company,  is 
not  to  benefit  those  who  are  able  to  pay,  but  those  who  are  poor,  unfortunate 
or  suffering,  having  no  prospect  of  being  able  to  pay,  that  such  of  our  brethren 
may  be  stimulated  to  fresh  courage  and  to  go  on  in  the  progress  of  the  Gospel 
of  life  and  salvation.  # 

Will  not  efforts  like  these  awaken  a  sense  of  duty  in  those  who  are  in 
need  of  and  receive  our  mercy,  and  thus  make  all  hearts  glad?  And  will  not 
our  Father  in  Heaven  and  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  angels,  and  the 
spirits  of  the  just  awaiting  us,  will  they  not  all  join  with  us  in  thanksgiving 
and  praise  to  Jehovah  for  even  the  little  good  we  are  trying  to  do  on  the  earth? 

That  the  Lord  may  pour  out  the  spirit  of  jubilee  upon  us,  and  help  us  to 
continue  with  gratifying  results  the  labors  of  the  cause  of  truth  on  the  earth, 
is  my  earnest  prayer  and  desire,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

Elder  L.  John  Nuttall  read  the  statistical  report  of  the  various  Stakes. 
President  Taylor  said,  as  the  house  was  rather  cold  the  meeting  would 
not  be  prolonged. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem, 

"Who  is  like  unto  thee,  O  Lord." 

Adjourned  till  2  p.m. 

Dismissed  with  prayer  by  Elder  Lorenzo  Snow. 


52 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


Tuesday,  2  p.m. 

Choir  sang, 

"From  Greenland's  icy  mountains, 
From  India's  coral  strand." 

Prayer  by  Elder  Albert  Carrington. 
Choir  sang, 

' '  Ye  Gentile  nations  cease  your  strife 
And  listen  to  the  words  of  life," 

Elder  L.  John  Nuttall  read  the  financial  report  of  the  Trustee  in  Trust, 
containing  a  detailed  statement  of  the  receipts  and  disbursements  during  the 
year  1879. 

President  Taylor  stated  that  vouchers  were  on  hand  for  all  the  accounts 
read,  and  thought  that  the  Auditing  Committee  should  examine  them. 

Elder  Lorenzo  Snow  moved  that  we  accept  the  report,  and  that  it  be  re- 
ferred, with  the  accompanying  documents,  to  the  Auditing  Committee.  The 
motion  was  seconded  and  carried  unanimously. 

The  financial  report  of  the  Logan  Temple  was  then  read,  also  of  the 
Manti  Temple. 

An  exhibit  of  the  receipts  and  expenditures  of  the  Perpetual  Emigration 
Fund  for  the  past  six  months,  was  presented. 

ELDEE   EBASTUS  SNOW. 

I  am  somewhat  weary  from  journeying,  hut  I  will  try,  if  the  congregation 
will  be  as  quiet  as  possible,  to  make  myself  heard  the  short  time  I  may  speak. 

I  congratulate  myself,  my  brethren  and  the  people  generally  on  this  au- 
picious  occasion — the  end  of  our  fiftieth  year  in  our  organized  capacity,  as  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints;  and  on  the  general  outlook,  the 
prosperity  that  is  attending  our  efforts,  the  general  peace  that  prevails  through- 
out our  land,  the  goodly  degree  of  unanimity  and  fellowship  and' brotherly  love 
existing  among  the  people  as  shown  in  the  general  good  feeling  that  is  mani- 
fest in  all  the  quarterly  conferences  and  Stakes  of  Zion,  as  well  as  in  the  inter- 
est shown  by  the  people  at  large  on  this  occasion.  The  financial  reports  which 
we  have  heard,  coupled  with  the  general  reports  of  school  superintendents 
and  other  public  functionaries  to  the  Legislative  Assembly  during  the  last 
winter,  tend  to  show  the  general  advancement  and  progress  of  the  people  in 
all  that  is  calculated  to  elevate  and  exalt  a  nation.  The  great  number  of  meet- 
inghouses and  schoolhouses,  and  pupils  in  attendance  in  our  district  schools, 
and  also  in  the  more  advanced  schools  of  the  Territory,  are  very  gratifying ; 
and  the  general  health  of  the  people  at  large,  and  all  sources  of  gratitude  and 
thanksgiving,  calling  forth  our  devotion  to  our  Father,  the  Creator. 

The  discourse  this  morning  by  Elder  F.  D.  Richards  foreshadows  what 
was  anciently  figured  by  the  year  of  jubilee,  and  as  understood  and  practised 
by  ancient  Israel,  namely,  the  severing  of  the  bonds  with  which  the  people 
were  bound — the  breaking  of  the  yoke  from  off  their  necks,  and  setting  the 
captive  free,  an*d  the  proclaiming  of  liberty  throughout  the  land  unto  all  the 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


S3 


inhabitants  thereof.  The  general  recommendation  to  exercise  mercy  and  for- 
giveness of  sins,  and  release  the  poor  of  indebtedness,  extending  relief  to  the 
needy,  and  making  the  hearts  of  all  the  people  glad;  it  is  to  be  hoped  that  in 
this  good  work  of  liberality,  of  kindness,  of  charity,  of  love — love  unto  God 
and  unto  all  his  children  may  make  itself  manifest  more  abundantly  among  all 
Israel  than  it  has  in  times  past — notwithstanding  the  Latter-day  Saints  have 
been  proverbial  for  their  self-abnegation,  for  their  devotion  to  each  others 
interest,  for  their  brotherly  kindness  and  charity,  for  their  ministering  unto  the 
poor,  and  gathering  their  poor  brethren,  and  uniting  and  co-operating  together 
and  in  promoting  each  others  general  interest  and  welfare — we  hope  to  see  a 
renewal  of  our  efforts  in  this  direction ;  and  that  from  this  time  we  may  date 
more  rapid  progress,  renewed  efforts,  more  earnest  devotion  to  the  sacred 
principles  of  our  holy  religion,  to  this  spirit  of  oneness  and  unity  which  we 
look  for  and  pray  for,  and  which  has  been  prophesied  of  by  all  the  holy  proph- 
ets, that  is  necessary  to  prepare  a  people  for  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man  to 
reign  in  the  midst  of  his  people.  And  we  might  offer  a  few  words  by  way  of 
reminder  and  exhortation  unto  those  that  have  been  delinquent  in  their  duty 
in  times  past,  and  in  their  efforts  to  live  up  to  their  privileges  and  to  exemplify 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel  in  their  lives  and  conduct.  When  will  they  have 
a  better  time  than  the  present,  and  what  period  of  the  history  of  the  Church 
of  Christ  so  suitable  as  the  present — the  commencement  of  the  second  half 
century  of  our'  existence — as  the  period  to  date  their  reformation  of  life  and 
the  allaying  of  all  that  lethargy  and  apathy  which  has  prevailed? 

Touching  our  P.  E.  Fund  indebtedness,  the  books  of  the  company  show 
a  vast  amount  due  from  those  who  have  been  emigrated  during  the  last  thirty 
years  in  which  we  have  been  laboring  to  gather  the  poor  from  distant  lands 
and  countries.  I  am  informed  by  those  better  acquainted  with  this  matter 
than  I  am,  that  the  amount  of  indebtedness  amounts  to  sixteen  hundred  thou- 
sand dollars.  With  all  this  vast  amount  due  from  the  people  all  over  the  land, 
we  find  their  operation  during  the  last  six  months  limited  to  about  ten  thou- 
sand dollars;  when  in  reality  the  operations  of  this  company  in  the  gathering 
of  the  poor  ought  and  might,  if  all  did  their  duty,  reach  a  hundred  thousand 
dollars  every  year,  extending  reTief  to  many  thousands  of  those  who  are  pray- 
ing for  deliverance  in  the  downtrodden  countries  of  Europe  and  elsewhere 
where  the  poor  have  the  Gospel  preached  unto  them.  For  as  it  was  in  the 
days  of  the  Savior,  so  it  is  now — the  poor  have  the  Gospel  preached  unto 
them.  This  fact  Jesus  announced  to  the  disciples  of  John  who  were  sent  by 
John  while  he  was  in  prison,  to  the  Savior  to  inquire  about  the  rumors  which 
he  had  heard  of  him.  The  Savior  was  preaching  and  baptizing,  performing 
miracles,  etc.,  and  as  John  was  in  prison  he  could  hear  nothing  but  general 
rumor,  and  therefore  he  sent  his  disciples  to  seek  this  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  who 
was  making  such  a  stir  in  the  land,  and  to  ascertain  who  he  was  and  what  his 
message  to  the  people  was.  And  in  answer  to  their  inquiry — "Art  thou  he 
that  should  come,  or  do  we  look  for  another?"  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto 
them,  "  Go  and  show  John  again  those  things  which  ye  do  hear  and  see:  the 
blind  receive  their  sight,  etc.,  and  the  poor  have  the  Gospel  preached  unto 
them."  By  this  John  was  to  know  who  he  was  and  what  his  message  was. 
The  same  answer  is  before  the  world  to-day  in  the  message  of  the  Latter-day 


54 


FIFTI15TH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


Saints  and  their  labors  throughout  the  earth,  wherever  this  Gospel  has  been 
sent  and  preached  by  the  Elders  of  this  Church.  The  sick  have  been  healed 
by  the  prayer  of  faith  and  the  laying  on  of  hands,  and  devils  have  been  cast 
out,  and  the  poor  have  the  Gospel  preached  unto  them,  and  many  of  the  poor 
have  been  gathered.  And  very  many  of  these  have  shown  themselves  worthy 
— they  have  paid  their  indebtedness  as  fast  as  they  could ;  others  have  been 
w  illing  and  desirous  of  doing  so,  but  adverse  circumstances  have  prevented 
them;  while  another  class  have  been  ungrateful,  and  have  not  sufficiently  re- 
alized the  rock  from  whence  they  were  hewn,  nor  the  pit  from  which  they  were 
digged,  allowing  years  to  pass  without  an  effort,  or  even  a  righteous  desire,  to 
pay  this  just  debt,  thereby  preventing  the  means  thus  due  to  go  on  its  errand 
of  mercy  to  bring  other  poor. 

Now,  it  is  contemplated  that  this  year  of  jubilee  shall  be  made  a  year  of 
release  and  comfort  to  those  who  are  indebted  to  the  Fund,  who  have  striven 
to  do  their  duty  and  discharged  it  as  far  as  able  to  do  so,  but  whose  circum- 
stances have  been  adverse,  preventing  them  from  doing  as  their  hearts  listed. 
It  is  proposed  that  such  be  set  free ;  and  while  we  feel  it  is  a  privilege  the  Lord 
has  given  us  of  speaking  comforting  words  to  such,  and  of  loosing  the  bands 
from  their  feet  and  set  them  free,  we  feel,  on  the  other  hand,  it  to  be  equally 
our  duty  to  remind  those  who  have  been  negligent,  that  if  they  also  would  en- 
joy the  riches  of  Christ  and  the  forgiveness  of  their  sins,  they  must  bestir 
themselves  and  come  up  to  every  duty,  and  cease  from  all  hard  speeches  and 
from  worldly-mindedness  and  pride,  and  from  a  desire  to  get  rich  before  they 
are  just,  and  to  accumulate  wealth  before  they  have  signified  their  gratitude  for 
past  favors. 

We  might  also  refer  to  the  reports  of  tithing,  but  from  the  observations  of 
the  Bishops  and  others,  perhaps  I  might  be  permitted  to  repeat  their  observa- 
tions, founded  on  the  experince  of  years,  in  receiving  and  disbursing  the  tithes 
of  the  people,  and  the  general  accounts  from  the  various  wards  and  stakes  and 
settlements  throughout  the  land;  and  in  repeating  their  observations  I  might 
add  my  own  testimony  and  experience  and  observation,  formed  by  the  experi- 
ence of  many  years  in  ministering  among  the  people,  examining  reports  and 
accounts,  and  receipts  and  disbursements,  and  lists  of  those  who  do  tithe 
themselves  and  those  who  do  not;  and  the  general  expression  of  the  presiding 
Bishop  and  his  Counselors  and  men  of  observation  and  experience ;  bears  out 
a  declaration  once  made  by  President  Young  in  his  lifetime,  in  effect,  that 
there  was  not  more  than  halt  an  honest  tithing  paid  in  the  midst  of  Israel; 
and  that  if  an  honest  tithing  ware  paid  by  the  people  generally,  we  should 
have  an  abundance  to  build  our  temples,  our  meel^ighouses,  to  provide  for  the 
poor  and  relieve  the  needy,  to  gather  the  Saints,  and  accomplish  what  may  be 
necessary  for  the  benefit  of  all  the  people,  without  calling  on  them  for  extra 
donations.  But  from  the  Logan  and  Manti  Temple  reports  we  learn  that  about 
$170,000  has  been  expended  upon  these  temples  within  the  last  year;  while 
about  twenty-eight  to  thirty  thousand  of  this  sum  has  been  appropriated  out  of 
the  tithing,  the  balance  being  the  free-will  offering  of  the  people.  We  have 
no  report  of  what  has  been  done  in  the  way  of  donations  in  this  temple  district, 
but  the  presumption  is  that  while  $140,000  of  the  tithing  has  been  expended 
upon  the  Salt  Laki  Temple,  that  perhaps  an  equal  sum  has  been  donated;  but 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


55 


of  this  we  are  not  informed,  and  not  being  myself  in  a  position  to  be  able  to 
speak  of  it,  of  course  I  will  leave  it  to  my  brethren  residing  here  in  this  temple 
district  to  speak  on  this  matter,  as  it  might  be  gratifying  to  the  people  of  the 
Salt  Lake  Temple  district  to  be  represented  in  our  General  Conference,  and 
that  it  might  also  be  known  what  they  are  doing  in  the  way  of  free-will  offer- 
ings in  the  building  of  this  temple,  as  well  as  their  brethren  in  other  temple 
districts.  But  I  repeat  what  President  Young  said,  and  which  I  believe  to  be 
true,  that  if  an  honest  tithing  were  paid  by  all  the  people,  according  to  their 
professions,  these  extra  offerings  and  donations  would  be  unnecessary.  You 
perceive  from  the  financial  reports  that  the  aggregated  sum  of  the  tithes  and 
offerings  seem  somewhat  large,  yet  considering  the  various  sources  of  dis- 
bursement, as  well  as  the  character  of  the  property  received — being  all  kinds 
of  produce  and  labor,  and  comparatively  but  little  money — that  the  disburse- 
ments in  the  various  directions  have  been  sufficient  to  exceed  and  consume 
the  income  together  with  the  offerings.  And  with  some  it  would  seem  as 
though  they  w,ere  not  making  progress  as  fast  as  the  people  could  desire  or 
wish ;  but  if  we  are  not  in  our  public  improvements  moving  as  fast  as  the  peo- 
ple could  wish,  you  will  perceive  it  is  not  the  fault  of  the  Bishops  and  others 
who  have  the  direction  of  these  financial  affairs.  Nor  does  there  appear  to  be 
a  wastefulness  or  unreasonable  expenditure  in  the  receiving  and  disbursing,  as 
-a  rule;  though  there  may  be  in  isolated  cases,  which  do  not  come,  perhaps, 
sufficiently  manifest  to  be  noticed  in  order  to  be  corrected;  but  as  fast  as  any 
thing  of  the  kind  does  appear  it  receives  proper  attention.  And  the  people 
have  reason  to  feel  a  measure  of  satisfaction  and  congratulation  in  the  great 
amount  of  good  that  is  being  accomplished  from  these  small  revenues  gath- 
ered from  this  vast  people  in  all  parts  of  the  land,  and  extending  as  we  are 
new  settlements  on  the  east  and  north  and  south  and  southeast,  and  in  various 
directions,  occupying  new  regions  of  country  and  bringing  into  use  fertile  fields, 
preparing  homes  for  the  Saints,  and  thus  fulfilling  the  words  of  the  Prophet 
Isaiah — "Enlarge  the  place  of  thy  tent,  and  let  them  stretch  forth  the  curtains 
of  thine  habitations;  spare  not,  lengthen  thy  cords  and  strengthen  thy  stakes; 
for  thou  shalt  break  forth  on  the  right  hand  and  on  the  left;  and  thy  seed  shall 
inherit  the  Gentiles,  and  make  the  desolate  cities  to  be  inhabited."  That  our 
nation  should  be  somewhat  jealous  of  us  is  not  to  be  wondered  at  from  the 
very  nature  and  character  of  our  institutions  and  thrift  of  our  people.  The 
same  jealousy  manifested  itself  in  Missouri  in  early  days,  when  the  Saints  were 
broken  up  and  driven  from  that  place  because  of  their  thrift,  their  provoking 
industry,  the  extent  of  their  mechanism,  the  skill  of  their  artisans,  and  the 
thrift  that  was  manifested  in  turning  the  desert  into  a  fruitful  field,  making  a 
great  contrast  in  northwest  Missouri  between  the  settlements  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  and  other  regions  of  Missouri  at  those  early  times.  Not  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  in  these  mountains  by  anything  they  or  their  institutions  are 
doing  are  menacing  the  general  interests  of  the  country,  only  they  are  provok- 
ing many  people  upon  this  American  Continent  who  seem  rather  inclined  to 
dwindle  and  live  in  voluptuousness  and  ease,  and  spend  their  vast  incomes  in 
gratifying  the  pride  of  life  and  lusts  of  the  flesh,  ostentation  and  show;  while 
the  Latter-day  Saints  seek  more  enduring  wealth — and  fill  the  land  with  an  en- 
terprising population ;  and  are  content  to  provide  the  common  necessaries  of 


56 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


life— essential  elements  to  the  growth  and  development  of  a  people— and  the 
training  and  education  of  their  spirits.  By  our  statistical  reports  we  find  that 
nearly  one-third  of  the  population  are  under  eight  years  of  age ;  while  another 
third  are  between  eight  and  twenty  years— children  who  have  been  born  and 
grown  up  in  these  mountains,  and  are  being  educated  in  our  common  schools. 
While  the  reports  of  our  Sabbath  Schools  show  in  the  neighborhood  of 
40,000  children  belonging  to  our  people  who  are  enrolled  in  the  Sabbath 
Schools — more  than  twice  the  number  of  all  the  other  Territories  combined, 
with  some  of  the  minor  States  thrown  into  the  bargain. 

Our  nation  is  inclined  to  find  fault  with  us  because  of  our  marriage  rela- 
tions— not  that  they  have  reason  to  believe  that  the  people  of  Utah  are  not 
virtuous — not  that  licentiousness  or  looseness  of  morals  prevail,  or  that  there 
is  a  disregard  of  sexual  purity — not  that  wives  and  mothers  are  not  honored 
as  they  deserve  to  be — not  that  children  are  not  beloved  and  cared  for  and 
trained  and  educated;  but  that  there  is  a  disposition  under  the  teachings  and 
sanction  of  our  holy  religion  to  amplify  the  doctrine  (which  was  also  sanctioned 
by  the  fathers  and  practised  in  ancient  Israel,  and  nowhere  disallowed  in  the 
Gospel  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ)  that  every  healthful,  virtuous  woman  desir- 
ing to  fulfil  the  law  of  God,  ought  to  have  the  opportunity  of  becoming  an 
honored  wife  and  mother,  and  to  partake  of  those  conjugal  blessings  and  en- 
joyments that  are  interwoven  with  our  nature  and  our  being,  and  thus  fill  the 
object  and  purposes  of  our  creation.  We  believe  that  where  this  opportunity 
is  not  afforded,  where  the  institutions  of  the  State,  or  the  tenets  of  religion,  or 
the  morals  of  the  sterner  sex  forbid  or  interfere  with  this  privilege,  there  is 
something  wrong.  It  is  a  state  of  Society  that  is  unnatural,  and  ought  not  to 
exist;  that  a  remedy  ought  to  be  sought  for  and  found.  Some  ancient  nations 
recognized  the  correctness  of  this  principle  and  attempted  to  compel  the  male 
population  to  marry,  while  some  of  the  ancient  Gentile  nations,  under  the 
leadership  of  Rome,  sought  to  establish  monogamy;  they  also  sought  to 
remedy  the  evils  to  which  I  have  referred,  by  compelling  the  males  to  marry. 
If  they  could  enforce  such  a  law,  I  should  think  it  imperative  upon  any  State 
that  forbids  polygamy.  A  large-souled  man  who  cherishes  a  proper  respect 
for  his  mother  and  sister,  and  for  every  other  man's  mother  and  sister,  and  is 
disposed  to  marry  and  deal  justly  with  more  than  one  woman,  he  ought  to  have 
the  privilege  so  lo  do;  but  if  the  State  forbids  him  so  to  do,  then  the  State 
ought  to  compel  delinquent  bachelors  to  wake  up  and  do  their  duty.  Presi- 
dent Young  in  his  lifetime  often  made  this  banter  to  the  United  States ;  if  you 
will  not  remove  your  narrow-contracted  laws,  be  consistent,  and  compel  the 
bachelors  to  do  their  duty,  and  compel  every  man  to  confine  himself  to  his  own 
wife  and  let  other  men's  wives  and  daughters  alone,  then  we  will  wait  and  see 
the  result,  and  shall  be  satisfied  if  the  women  shall  have  no  longer  cause  to 
complain.  But  while  the  tens  of  thousands  of  the  daughters  of  Eve  are  left 
in  our  large  mercantile  towns  and  elsewhere  to  fall  a  prey  to  the  brutish  lusts 
of  wicked  men,  and  afterwards  to  be  cast  off  to  die,  rotten  with  disease,  in 
gutters  and  in  dens  and  hovels,  and  in  this  state  to  be  swept  away  from  earth 
—we  say  while  tens  of  thousands  of  the  fair  daughters  of  Eve  are  thus  victim- 
ized and  made  to  suffer  from  this  unnatural  state  of  things  in  modern  Christen- 
dom, it  seems  to  us  the  sheerest  hypocrisy  for  the  solons  of  our  nation— backed 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


57 


by  the  clergy  of  the  land — to  decry  the  honorable  marriage  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  with  the  example  before  them  of  40,000  children  attending  our  Sabbath 
Schools — which  I  repeat  is  more  than  those  of  all  the  other  Territories  of  the 
United  States  and  half  a  dozen  of  the  minor  States  thrown  in. 

There  is  an  ancient  doctrine  which  God  established  in  ancient  Israel  and 
commanded,  namely,  that  the  adulterer  should  be  put  to  death.  We  ask  our- 
selves the  question,  if  it  became  necessary  for  God  to  command  by  Moses  that 
Israel  should  not  suffer  the  adulterer  to  live,  but  that  whosoever  should  be 
caught  in  the  act  should  first  be  tried  before  the  elders,  and  if  found  guilty  the 
elders  should  declare  their  sentence  and  bring  them  to  the  gates  of  the  city 
and  call  upon  all  the  people  to  pick  up  stones  and  join  in  his  execution,  that 
by  all  throwing  at  the  same  time  no  one  would  have  it  to  say  that  "Your  stone 
killed  him,"  or  that  no  relative  could  charge  his  death  to  any  one  person,  nei- 
ther could  the  ignominy  be  fastened  upon  an  executioner,  as  it  is  in  our  day, 
but  the  whole  people  signifying  their  contempt  for  the  transgressor,  joined  in 
administering  the  penalty  until  he  died  the  death  of  the  dog.  But  the  natural 
sequence  of  the  law  is — liberty  for  honorable  men  of  the  earth  to  absorb  the 
surplus  female  element  in  honorable  marriage,  though  it  should  be  under  the 
plural  system  practised  by  the  patriarchs  and  prophets  of  old.  And  while  this 
privilege  was  extended — so  long  as  there  was  a  surplus  of  female  element  to 
be  absorbed — the  man  who  tampered  with  his  neighbor's  wife  or  daughter  suf- 
fered death.  Brother  Woodruff  related  in  my  hearing  a  short  time  since,  an 
account  of  his  visit  among  the  village  Indians  of  New  Mexico,  on  the  Rio 
Grande,  and  of  a  conversation  between  him  and  the  governor  of  one  of  the 
chief  villages,  numbering  some  3,000  souls,  who  were  partially  civilized  main- 
taining schools  and  also  maintaining  purity  in  their  social  relations.  The  gov- 
ernor assured  him  that  they  had  for  many  generations  kept  themselves  free 
from  mixing  with  the  Castilian  blood,  and  that  the  death  penalty  was  scrupu- 
lously enforced  upon  the  man  guilty  of  adultery  among  them.  He  said  the 
railroad  was  approaching  their  town,  that  the  whites  were  crawling  upon  them, 
and  it  would  be  but  a  short  time  before  they  would  be  overrun  with  them;  and 
that  though  they  boasted  of  far  greater  intelligence,  greater  wealth,  and  were 
a  powerful  people,  they  were  given  to  many  crimes,  to  drunkenness  and  whore- 
dom, and,  he*  said,  they  feared  the  result  of  their  approach  and  their  "civiliza- 
tion" in  their  midst;  for,  he  said,  if  any  of  them  were  to  take  liberties  with 
our  women,  and  our  men  should  execute  the  penalty  of  the  law  of  our  fathers, 
which  has  been  in  force  among  us  for  centuries,  and  put  to  death  the  guilty 
adventurer,  what  would  be  the  result,  said  the  old  gray-haired  patriarch  of  the 
village?  I  suppose,  said  he,  they  would  send  their  troops  upon  us  and  slay  us- 
Such  are  the  reflections  and  such  are  the  rebukes  of  the  chieftain,  who  is 
called  a  savage,  upon  the  civilization  of  the  age. 

As  a  people,  we  are  exceedingly  anxious  to  acquit  ourselves  as  good  citizens 
in  every  department  of  life,  with  honor  and  credit  before  our  nation  and  the 
world.  We  look  forward  to  the  time  when  the  great  tree  that  has  sprung  up 
and  spread  abroad,  over-shadowing  the  land  in  this  rocky  mountain  region, 
this  great  people  the  Latter-day  Saints,  when  their  influence  will  be  felt  in  all 
the  land.  We  are  striving,  in  our  weak  way,  to  conduct  ourselves  and  the  ris- 
ing generation  under  our  care  for  the  great  work  in  the  earth.     The  bigotry 


58 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  the  superstition,  and  the  self-righteousness  that  to-day  reign  in  the  breasts 
of  the  ignorant,  will,  by  and  by,  begin  to  break  and  give  way  as  the  Latter-day 
Saints  become  better  known,  or  when  the  time  comes  spoken  of  by  the  anci- 
ent prophet,  when  Zion  shall  break  forth  on  the  right  and  the  left,  and  she 
shall  possess  the  gates  of  her  enemies.  How  will  that  be  done?  We  are 
doing  it  by  purchase — as  we  appproach  the  gates  of  our  enemies  we  buy  them 
out,  buy  out  their  ranches,  their  little  settlements  and  towers,  and  in  this  way 
will  that  prophecy  be  accomplished.  And  as  we  spread  abroad,  the  cry  will 
be,  "Give  us  room,  that  we  may  dwell;"  and  it  is  in  this  sense  that  we  are  an 
aggressive  people — net  aggressive  by  war,  not  aggressive  by  abridging  the 
rights  of  our  fellows,  but  in  the  sense  that  we  are  growing — in  the  same  sense 
as  the  potato  is  aggressive  when  planted  in  a  fruitful  field.  And  this  reminds 
me  of  a  remark  made  by  the  late  Dr.  Willard  Richards,  when,  in  1847,  we 
came  to  the  top  of  the  Big  Mountain  and  began  to  descend  through  the  quak- 
en-asps  in  the  black  soil,  says  he,  "Brethren,  methinks  I  hear  the  Irish  potato 
crying  out,  lie  over,  give  me  room."  Such,  indeed,  are  the  Latter-day  Saints; 
the  cry  will  be,  "Lie  over,  give  me  room."  We  are  extending  and  spreading 
abroad,  and  we  continue  to  gather  our  brethren  and  sisters  from  distant  nations 
and  provide  for  them  homes  and  means  of  employment;  and  we  are  marrying 
and  multiplying  and  endeavoring  to  encourage  the  fulfillment  of  the  command- 
ment given  to  our  first  parents— multiply  and  replenish  the  earth.  And  when 
I  look  back  to  New  England — the  cradle  of  American  liberty— and  see  the  ma- 
jority of  the  New  England  families  dwindling — for  go  where  you  will  among  the 
wealth}',  the  banker,  the  merchant,  the  wealthy  farmer  or  the  well-to-do  me- 
chanic in  the  more  well-to-do  portions  of  the  New  England  States,  if  you  find 
any  children  at(all,  as  a  rule  it  is  not  more  than  a  son  and  daughter,  or  an  only 
son  or  only  daughter — two  or  three  children  at  the  most  in  the  majority  of 
cases,  and  they,  generally  sickly  and  short-lived.  During  my  last  visit  to  that 
country  I  often  spoke  of  it  and  referred  to  it  among  my  kindred  and  acquain- 
tances, of  whom  I  have  many,  that  being  the  land  of  my  nativity,  and  there- 
fore I  may  be  permitted  to  speak  of  the  land  and  home  that  gave  me  birth, 
and  refer  to  what  I  regard  its  degeneracy.  In  referring  to  this  state  of  affairs 
the  answer  of  my  old  aunt  who  ranks  herself  among  the  aristocracy  of  the 
land,  "Oh,"  said  she,  "it  has  become  unpopular  to  have  large  families."  And 
in  looking  over  the  newspapers  of  New  England  and  those  of  other  Eastern 
States,  I  was  not  a  little  shocked  to  see  the  advertisements  of  abortionist  doc- 
tors, male  and  female,  unblushingly  put  forth  before  high  heaven  and  in  the 
face  of  civilized  humanity — pardon  the  expression,  shall  I  say  non-civilized 
humanity?  I  should  offend  the  pride  of  the  world;  but  if  the  Gods  and  the 
angels  were  to  speak,  they  would  blush  at  the  term  "civilization."  And  these 
papers  containing  such  advertisements,  are  scattered  throughout  the  land 
broadcast,  read  by  families,  and  before  the  gaze  of  every  woman  and  every  girl, 
as  well  as  every  profligate  of  the  land ;  and  these  point  out  the  ways  and  means 
developed  by  "Christianity"  to  prevent  the  fulfilment  of  the  first  great  command 
of  God  to  our  first  parents.  The  way  to  destroy  the  foetus  in  the  womb,  to 
produce  premature  birth  and  abortion,  and  lastly,  when  this  fails  to  secretly 
smother  the  offspring  or  cast  them  into  sewers— anything  to  be  relieved  from 
being  burdened,  burdc7ied—Qo&  save  the  mark !— burdened  with  the  offspring, 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  COXFELENCE. 


59 


the  spirit  that  came  from  heaven,  as  if  it  were  a  burden.  What  false  education 
is  this?  What  false  religion  is  this  that  has  poisoned  the  human  heart,  that 
has  turned  their  brain,  that  has  turned  all  common  sense  out  of  the  Christian 
world  into  beastly  lust,  and  that  patronizes  and  sustains  these  vampires  of  so- 
ciety, and  makes  them  palatial  residences  on  Broadway  and  on  the  Fifth  Ave- 
nue of  New  York?    The  price  of  blood. 

These  iniquities  cry  unto  heaven,  and  God  will  visit  them  in  his  own  due 
time  with  judgment  upon  those  who  uphold  them,  and  those  States  that  defend 
and  protect  this  wickedness,  and  at  the  same  time  cry  out  against  the  institu- 
tions of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  say,  crucify!  crucify  and  imprison  them,  and 
put  them  to  death  if  necessary.  Will  the  Lord  not  lend  an  ear?  Will  he  not 
take  congnizance  of  such  doings?  And  will  he  not  judge  between  his  people 
in  the  mountains  and  their  accusers  and  those  who  rail  against  them  and  who 
at  the  same  time  are  connected  either  directly  or  indirectly  with  the  many 
sinks  of  iniquity  that  flourish  on  this  so-called  Christian  land?  Shall  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  assimilate  themselves  with  these  abominations?  Shall  they  too 
give  themselves  up  to  whoredoms  and  lust?  Shall  they  encourage  infanticide, 
foeticide  and  all  their  kindred  evils?  Shall  we  forbid  honorable  marriage  and 
leave  the  surplus  female  element  a  prey  to  libertines  and  reap  the  consequen- 
ces, in  the  foul  and  loathsome  diseases  that  taint  society  and  ruin  future  gener- 
ations? No,  God  forbid!  the  heart  of  every  Latter-day  Saint,  man  and  woman 
in  the  land  says  no.  We  will  pray  for  our  people;  we  will  pray  for  our  na- 
tion, we  will  pray  God  to  soften  their  hearts  and  stay  their  hand  and  hold  their 
arm,  and  not  permit  them  to  execute  their  narrow  contracted  laws  which  they 
have  framed  in  the  days  of  their  bigotry  and  ignorance,  under  the  traditions  of 
their  father,  and  in  violation  of  the  great  principles  on  which  American  liberty 
is  founded.  We  know  full  well  that  the  old  Puritan  States  of  New  Eng- 
land and  the  other  commonwealths  of  America — grew  up  under  the  monogamic 
system,  and  that  their  hearts  have  not  become  sufficiently  enlarged  to  compre- 
hend the  final  result  of  this  tree  of  liberty  which  they  planted  in  the  land,  they 
consequently  retained  in  their  new  colonies  and  the  States  formed  out  of  them, 
the  old  Roman  system  of  monogamy  that  made  laws  against  bigamy.  But  the 
bigamy  which  their  laws  contemplated  and  which  the  laws  of  England  contem- 
plated, after  which  they  patterned,  was  not  the  plural  marriage  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  regulated  as  it  is  under  the  sanction  of  religion,  its  duties  and  ob- 
ligations, and  religiously  observed  by  the  people.  But  their  laws  against  big- 
amy were  based  upon  the  principle  of  fraud,  fraud  practised  by  a  man  or 
woman,  who,  believing  in  monogamy,  enter  into  that  relationship  and  then  se- 
cretly violate  the  sacred  covenants  entered  into  with  each  other,  and  unbe- 
known to  each  other,  contract  a  marriage  with  another  and  clandestinely  carry 
it  on.  The  crime  in  this  instance  was  not  in  the  religious  doctrine  of  plural 
marriage,  but  in  the  fraudulent  manner  in  which  it  is  contracted  and  carried  on 
and  the  violation  of  their  covenants  and  the  law  of  the  land.  But  the  Consti- 
tution of  the  L'nited  States  is  a  broad  instrument,  framed  to  suit  the  growth  of 
the  country  and  the  expansion  of  liberal  ideas  in  the  land,  containing  no  pro- 
vision looking  to  the  establishing  of  monogamy  as  an  institution  of  the  com7 
mon  country;  there  are  no  provisions  in  the  Constitution  requiring  or  empow- 
ering Congress  to  enforce  such  order  of  society;  on  the  contrary,  the  princi- 


6o 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


pies  of  social,  civil  and  religious  liberty  are  engrafted  upon  it  and  made  insti- 
tutions of  our  country  by  that  charter  of  our  liberties — I  say  all  these  pro- 
visions are  so  ample  in  their  character  that  they  will  admit  and  protect  the 
Mohammedan,  the  Jew,  the  patriarch  Abraham  himself  if  he  were  here  with 
his  wives  and  concubines,  and  Jacob  and  Joseph,  and  all  the  ancient  patriarchs 
as  well  as  the  Khedive,  if  he  were  to  come  here  with  his  wives  and  people, 
and  form  colonies  in  our  midst.  The  true  spirit  of  that  glorious  Constitution 
of  our  country  as  understood  by  us,  is  illustrated  in  the  hymn  which  we  so  fre- 
quently hear  sung,  composed  by  Elder  Parley  P.  Pratt  on  the  occasion  of  the 
first  celebration  of  the  entry  of  the  pioneers  into  this  valley,  held  on  the  24th 
of  July,  1848.  The  first  great  feast  was  celebrated,  called  the  harvest  feast, 
commemorating  the  first  anniversary  of  the  arrival  of  the  pioneers  in  this  land 
and  the  following  is  part  of  the  hymn  sung  on  that  occasion : 

"Come,  ye  Christian  sects  and  pagans, 

Indian,  Moslem.  Greek  and  Jew, 
Worshipers  of  God  or  Dagon, 

Freedom's  banner  waves  for  you." 

These  are  the  sentiments  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  as  to  the  nature  of  the 
liberty  our  fathers  fought  for,  and  which  we  desire  to  maintain  in  the  land, 
namely,  freedom  for  all  people  of  every  land  and  clime.  Nor  does  it  require 
them  to  leave  behind  their  wives  and  children  and  adopt  the  narrow-contracted, 
bigoted  laws  of  monogamy.  It  was  a  New  England  bigot,  Mr.  Morrill,  of 
Vermont — my  native  State,  disgraced  on  account  of  it — who  introduced  that 
bill  known  as  the  anti-polygamy  bill  of  1862,  which  was  adopted  by  the  solons 
of  our  nation,  under  the  last  priestly  influence  and  sectarian  bigotry  of  the 
land,  of  which  the  noble  Mr.  Lincoln  was  ashamed.  And  when  the  bill  was 
enrolled  and  sent  to  him,  knowing  the  pressure  under  which  it  had  passed ; 
and  with  a  war  upon  his  hands,  he  lacked  the  moral  courage  to  express  his  real 
sentiments  of  disapproval  of  the  bill,  but  quietly  pocketed  it,  refusing  to  sign 
it,  but  allowed  it  to  become  law  by  limitation.  If  there  was  any  one  act  in  the 
life  of  Mr.  Lincoln  in  which  he  will  be  found  faulty  and  for  which  he  will  be 
found  wanting  when  he  shall  be  weighed  in  the  balance,  it  was  for  declining 
to  express  his  honest  sentiments  to  the  Congress  of  the  United  States  in  dis- 
approval of  that  bill.  And  if  there  is  anything  in  which  Presidents  and  Sen- 
ators, Congressmen  and  judges  will  be  found  wanting  before  the  heavens 
when  weighed  in  the  balance,  it  will  be  in  their  future  endorsements  of  that 
bill  and  their  efforts.to  enforce  it. 

May  God  have  mercy  on  them  and  spare  them  the  consequences;  and 
may  grace  abound  in  Israel,  that  we  may  abide  in  the  truth  and  honor  God  our 
Father,  and  at  last  be  found  worthy  of  an  exaltation  in  his  kingdom,  is  my 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

Choir  sang  the  anthem, 

"  Glory  to  God." 
Adjourned  till  10  a.m.  to-morrow. 

Dismissed  with  prayer  by  Elder  Wilford  Woodruff.  • 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE.  6l 


SECOND  DAY. 

Wednesday,  io  a.m. 

Choir  sang, 

"  The  morning  sun  has  chased  the  night 
And  brought  again  the  cheering  light." 

Prayer  by  Counselor  D.  H.  Wells. 
Choir  sang, 

"  Let  those  who  would  be  Saints  indeed 
Fear  not  what  others  do." 

ELDER   LEVI   W.  HANCOCK 

Said  he  was  seventy-seven  years  old  to-day,  and  nearly  fifty  years  ago  he 
was  baptized  after  receiving  the  testimony  of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  who  received 
the  word  of  the  Lord  and  was  slain  by  the  professed  followers  of  Him  who 
died  for  his  fellow  man.  He  was  familiarly  acquainted  with  the  Prophet, 
lived  with  him  for  three  years,  worked  under  his  direction;  and  he  was  one  of 
the  most  pleasing  spirits  he  had  ever  been  associated  with.  He  then  bore 
testimony  that  this  gospel  was  true;  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  true;  the 
Twelve  were  true;  he  heard  Joseph  say  that  this  work  could  not  be  built  up 
without  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Seventies  followingin  their  wake.  Their  de- 
cisions, if  made  in  righteousness  and  unity,  were  as  valid  as  the  decision  of 
the  first  presidency  in  the  days  of  the  Prophet,  as  was  declared  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  and  if  there  were  no  divisions  among  them  their  voice  would 
be  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  and  all  Israel  should  say  amen  to  it.  He  exhorted 
all  the  Saints  to  works  of  righteousness,  and  invoked  the  blessings  of  God 
upon  them. 

PRESIDENT   JOHN"  TAYLOR. 

As  I  stated  on  the  opening  of  the  Conference,  there  were  some  things  of 
considerable  importance  that  we  wished  to  lay  before  the  Saints,  and  especially 
before  the  authorities  of  the  Church  to-day.  We  have  had  in  operation  for 
quite  a  length  of  time,  what  is  known  as  the  "  Perpetual  Emigration  Fund 
Company,"  and  a  great  many  of  you  that  are  present  have  contributed  to  that 
Fund.  And  as  it  is  a  jubilee  year  to  you — although  I  suppose  the  forty-ninth 
year  would  be  the  proper  jubilee — it  is  really  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  It  occurred  to  me  that  we  ought 
to  do  something,  as  they  did  in  former  times,  to  relieve  those  that  are  oppressed 
with  debt,  to  assist  those  that  are  needy,  to  break  the  yoke  off  those  that  may 
feel  themselves  crowded  upon,  and  to  make  it  a  time  of  general  rejoicing. 
And  as  it  is  a  matter  in  which  you  are  all  interested,  it  is  thought  proper  to  lay 
the  matter  before  you,  because  we  have  contemplated  to  release  one-half  of 
the  indebtedness  of  those  who  are  indebted  to  the  P.  E.  Fund  Company. 
That  is  one  subject. 

There  is  a  variety  of  other  things,  which  I  mentioned  to  my  brethren  of  the 


62 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


Twelve,  and  they  all  join  in  the. feeling  with  a  hearty  co-operation,  all  being 
desirous  of  seeing  something  of  this  kind  done  which  will  tend  to  produce 
happiness,  joy  and  comfort,  and  a  feeling  of  relief  among  many  of  our  breth- 
ren. 

We  wish  the  brethren  who  have  contributed  to  this  fund,  and  all  the  offi- 
cers of  this  Church,  to  have  a  voice  in  it,  because  it  is  our  act;  and  we  want 
to  make  it  the  act  of  the  whole  people,  that  all  may  have  a  voice,  which  we 
consider  they  ought  to  have  in  all  these  leading  prominent  actions  wherein 
they  are  concerned. 

The  proposition  is  to  release  one-half  of  the  people's  indebtedness  to  the 
Perpetual  Emigration  Fund  Company.  I  may  say,  I  have  also  spoken  to 
Brother  Carrington  on  this  matter,  who  is  the  president  of  this  company,  and 
learn  that  it  meets  his  views.  I  would  further  state  that  to  the  best  of  my 
knowledge  nobody  has  hitherto  been  oppressed  or  crowded  on  account  of  this 
indebtedness  at  all;  they  have  been  called  upon  and  requested  to  meet  their 
engagements,  which  is  certainly  just;  because  others  were  interested  in  these 
matters  besides  ourselves,  who  had  a  right  to  expect  a  return  of  means  appro- 
priated, that  they  also  might  be  relieved,  and  partake  of  the  benefits  of  this 
fund,  which  was  properly  named  perpetual;  that  is,  many  of  the  poor  for 
which  the  means  were  subscribed  formerly,  under  the  direction  of  President 
Young,  who  was  the  originator  of  the  Perpetual  Emigrating  Fund  Company. 

I  have  some  figures  which  I  will  read  to  you;  they  will  show  what  has  not 
been  returned  again  by  those  who  have  been  benefited  by  it.  The  amount  of 
the  original  indebtedness  is  $704,000.  The  interest,  extending  along  for  many 
years  at  10  per  cent,  per  annum,  is  some  $900,006",  which  interest,  in  many  in- 
stances, has  had  to  be  paid  by  us.  The  whole  of  the  amount  is  $1,604,000. 
That  is  the  amount  of  the  whole  indebtedness,  principal  and  interest. 

Now,  we  propose  to  forgive  those  who  are  poor  and  that  are  struggling  with 
difficulties  in  life,  who.have  not  been  able  to  meet  their  engagements  in  this  mat- 
ter; not  half  the  amount  that  they  are  due,  but  the  whole ;  and  to  those  who  are 
forgiven  the  debt  it  will  be  blotted  out ;  not  partly,  but  entirely ;  and  the  remainder 
will  be  left  to  those  to  pay  who  are  able  to  and  have  not  done  it.  And  we  shall 
expect  that  those  who  have  not  met  their  engagements  to  meet  them  ;that  is, 
when  half  has  been  forgiven  to  the  poor.  For  in  former  times  they  did  not 
release  the  rich,  it  was  the  poor.  The  rich  can  always  take  care  of  themselves 
— that  is,  so  far  as  this  world  is  concerned,  I  do  not  know  how  it  will  be  about 
the  next.  [Laughter.]  I  wish  it  distinctly  understood  that  it  is  one-half  of  the 
whole  amount,  which  we  wish  to  relieve  the  poor  from.  It  will  be  a  little  start 
on  the  year  of  jubilee.  This  is  one  item.  All  of  you  who  are  in  favor  of  this 
release  signify  it  by  holding  up  your  right  hand.  [The  congregation  voted 
unanimously  in  favor  of  the  motion.]  I  will  state  that,  as  to  the  manner  in 
which  this  will  be  done;  it  will  be  provided  for  hereafter;  and  a  circular  will 
be  issued  by  the  Twelve  to  the  authorities,  instructing  them  how  to  act  in  re- 
lation to  this  matter. 

There  is  another  thing  we  want  to  do  at  the  same  time ;  that  is,  there  is  a 
large  amount  of  indebtedness  on  tithing  account.  You  heard  something  about 
that  yesterday;  it  was  then  averred  that  all  the  indebtedness  was  not  reported  ; 
that  is,  if  we  had  it  all  down  it  would  be  a  great  deal  more  than  is  here  stated. 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


63 


We  as  a  people  believe  in  paying  our  tithes  and  offerings  to  the  Lord — and 
when  I  get  through  I  want  Brother  Hardy  to  get  up  and  talk  on  tithing;  he  is 
quite  a  hand  to  talk  on  this  subject.  We  believe  it  is  proper  for  us  to  pay 
one-tenth  of  our  increase,  or  one-tenth  of  our  time,  as  the  case  may  be,  to  the 
Lord  regularly.  And  a  great  many  men  do  this,  and  do  it  very  promptly;. but 
a  great  many  more  do  not  do  it,  only  a  very  little — about  that  much  sometimes 
[measuring  the  end  of  the  finger.  Laughter.]  I  think  it  will  be  a  tight 
squeeze  for  some  of  them  to  dig  through.  I  am  not  talking  about  this  because 
I  care  anything  about  it  personally;  but  because  of  the  interest  of  those  who 
ought  to  do  it,  but  do  not.  There  are  a  great  many  who  have  neglected  the 
payment  of  these  things  partly  through  carelessness,  partly  through  poverty 
and  a  variety  of  circumstances,  and  it  begins  to  feel  oppressive  to  them.  Now, 
we  want  to  break  off  this  yoke  too,  that  is,  off  those  who  are  worthy;  the 
others  we  do  not  care  much  about — that  is  unless  they  turn  about  and  reform 
and  take  another  course,  live  their  religion  and  act  as  Latter-day  Saints.  But 
we  wish  that  there  shall  be  a  release  of  the  poor  and  those  who  are  unable  to 
meet  it.  The  amount  that  is  behind,  according  to  the  bishops'  records — which 
many  of  the  people  owing  it  signify  their  willingness  to  pay  but  are  not  able 
to — is  $151,798.  We  propose  releasing  half  of  the  amount  to  the  deserving 
poor,  and  that  will  be  #75,899.  This  of  course  will  have  to  be  managed  by 
the  proper  authorities,  the  same  as  the  others ;  that  is,  first  on  the  recommenda- 
tion of  the  bishop  of  the  ward,  approved  by  the  president  of  the  stake ;  and 
then  to  receive  the  sanction  of  the  Presiding  Bishop.  The  P.  E.  Fund  mat- 
ter will  be  subject  to  the  recommendation  of  the  bishops,  the  sanction  of  the 
presidents  of  stakes  and  also  the  President  of  the  P.  E.  F.  Company,  sanc- 
tioned by  the  Council  of  the  Twelve;  so  that  those  that  are  really  worthy  may 
be  released,  and  those  that  are  not,  ought  to  pay  it.  And  then,  we  who  have 
got  a  little  behind  in  our  tithing,  will  try  and  pay  it  up  and  thus  keep  the 
record  right  between  us  and  the  Lord;  and  then  we  may  look  for  blessings 
from  his  hands. 

I  will  call  a  vote  on  this  subject  that  I  have  mentioned.  All  who  are  in 
favor  of  releasing  the  obligations  amounting  to  $75,899,  on  tithing,  signify  it 
by  holding  up  the  right  hand.  [Unanimous  vote  in  favor.]  All  right,  we 
knew  that  would  be  the  feeling  of  the  brethren. 

Another  thing.  We  have  had  a  great  scarcity  of  water  the  last  year,  and 
consequently  short  crops.  It  is  proposed  that  inasmuch  as  there  may  be  suf- 
fering more  or  less  in  some  places — we  hope,  however,  that  our  brethren  will 
not  allow  our  poor  unfortunate  brethren  to  suffer,  I  have  not  heard  of  any- 
thing of  the  kind ;  but  still  a  little  help  will  not  do  any  harm.  And  where 
people  have  been  in  straitened  circumstances  through  the  loss  of  crops  and 
of  stock— and  some  people  have  lost,  perhaps,  their  last  cow,  and  some  have 
I  lost  many  of  their  stock,  and  yet  have  a  good  many  left;  but  there  has  been 
quite  a  general  loss.  Now,  we  propose  to  raise  1000  head  of  cows— not  old 
cows  that  do  not  give  any  milk;  nor  any  one-teated  cows,  but  good  milk  cows, 
and  have  them  distributed  among  those  that  may  be  destitute  in  the  different 
stakes,  under  the  direction  of  the  authorities  thereof.  And  the  Church  will 
put  in  300  of  this  1000.  I  spoke  to  Brother  Sheets  and  told  him  that  we  did 
not  want  any  one-teated  cows.    The  balance  of  this  number,  namely,  700,  we 


64 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


would  like  the  Stakes  to  make  up.  We  have  been  informed  by  the  presidents 
that  this  can  be  easily  done.  It  would  have  been  quite  hard  a  while  ago,  be- 
fore we  lost  so  many  of  our  animals;  but  now  it  seems  we  can  do  it  quite  easy. 
[Laughter.]  It  is  much  better  to  give  them  to  the  poor  than  to  have  them 
die,  and  they  have  not  all  died  yet,  so  we  may  as  well  begin  to  dispose  of  them. 

I  want  to  call  upon  the  presidents  of  stakes  and  the  bishops  to  know  if 
you  are  prepared  to  furnish  the  balance — you  that  are  in  favor  of  doing  it,  sig- 
nify by  holding  up  the  right  hand.  [The  presidents  and  bishops  voted  unani- 
mously in  the  affirmative.]  To  the  congregation— all  you  Saints  who  approve 
of  this  motion,  signify  it  by  holding  up  the  right  hand.  [The  vote  was  unani- 
mous in  the  affirmative.] 

Now,  we  are  going  to  come  to  our  sisters.  Some  people  think  that  the  sisters 
cannot  do  anything;  I  will  show  you  what  they  can  do.  President  Young  re- 
organized the  Relief  Society — it  having  been  organized  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  in  Nauvoo— and  inasmuch  as  the  brethren  had  been  careless  and  slow  to 
heed  the  counsel  of  President  Young  in  relation  to  storing  away  wheat,  he 
requested  the  sisters  to  do  it,  and  some  of  we  "lords  of  creation"  thought  it 
was  a  very  little  thing  for  our  sisters  to  be  engaged  in.  But  we  find  now  they  are 
of  some  use,  and  that  the  "ladies  of  creation"  can  do  something  as  well  as  the 
"lords."  I  spoke  to  Sister  Eliza  R.  Snow,  who  is  the  president  of  the  Relief 
Society,  and  asked  what  her  feelings  would  be,  and  that  of  her  sisters,  in  rela- 
tion to  the  distribution  of  their  wheat,  for  those  who  are  in  need  of  seed, 
letting  the  people  have  it  as  a  loan,  for  which  the  bishops  should  become  re- 
sponsible and  see  that  it  is  returned  after  harvest.  She  replied  that  it  would 
meet  her  entire  approbation.  The  sisters  have  not  had  the  opportunity  to 
meet  yet  to  get  an  expression  of  their  minds  in  relation  to  it;  but  I  will 
guarantee  that  they  will  do  what  they  are  requested  to  do,  for  they  have 
already  been  doing  something  in  that  line,  as  I  understand  it.  Is  not  that  so 
Brother  Hunter ?  [Bishop  Hunter:  "Yes,  sir."]  Now,  we  want  to  show  you, 
what  the  sisters  can  do.  I  will  guarantee  that  they  will  do  it,  and  that  we  will 
have  a  report  from  them  before  we  get  through.  They  have  34,761  bushels  of 
wheat.  Who  of  you  men  can  raise  that  much  ?  Where's  your  wheat  ?  [Laughter.] 
Now,  those  34,761  bushels  of  wheat  will  be  of  considerable  importance  judi- 
ciously managed,  and  loaned  out  to  some  of  our  poor  brethi'en.  It  will  furnish 
seed  wheat,  and  after  harvest  they  can  return  it  again.  We  do  not  want  any 
more  harsh  talk  about  the  woman  question  after  this.  [A  voice:  "May  they 
vote  now?"]  O  yes,  they  may  vote  now  if  they  choose  to;  everybody  is  will- 
ing that  they  should  vote  now.  [Laughter.]  That  is,  they  are  willing  the 
sisters  shall  vote  on  the  wheat  question.  [Renewed  laughter.]  We  may  as 
well  call  a  vote  on  this  question  now,  our  sisters  are  present  whom  we  will  ask 
to  vote.  All  you  sisters  who  are  in  favor  of  carrying  out  this  request,  hold  up 
your  right  hand.  [A  forest  of  hands  went  up.]  There  they  go,  you  see. 
[Laughter.]  I  think  that  is  the  most  hearty  vote  yet.  I  knew  they  would  do 
it.  [A  voice:  "Is  it  to  be  loaned  without  interest?"]  Somebody  asks  if  it  is 
to  be  loaned  without  interest.  Why,  of  course  it  is ;  we  do  not  want  any  non- 
sense of  that  kind;  it  is  the  time  of  jubilee. 

There  is  another  thing.  We  have  got  through  with  many  public  matters, 
I  will  say  something  else.    It  is  no  more  harm  for  private  people  to  forgive 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


65 


one  another  than  for  public  ones.  If  you  find  people  owing  you  who  are  dis- 
tressed, if  you  will  go  to  work  and  try  to  relieve  them  as  much  as  you  can, 
under  the  circumstances,  God  will  relieve  you  when  you  get  into  difficulties. 
I  will  tell  you  that  in  the  name  of  the  Lord.  Let  us  act  on  a  kind,  generous, 
brotherly  principle,  doing  good  one  to  another  and  carrying  out  the  principles 
of  the  everlasting  gospel  in  our  lives. 

We  talk  sometimes  about  the  United  Order.  There  is  a  little  of  that 
spirit  manifested  in  our  operations  to-day,  is  there  not?  Operating  together 
for  the  welfare  of  all ;  that  is  what  we  ought  to  do;  that  is  what  the  gospel 
teaches  us. 

I  speak  of  these  things  for  your  reflection,  and  they  are  matters  we  will 
leave  in  your  own  bosom.  And  I  would  like  to  see  Z.  C.  M.  I.  and  our 
bankers,  merchants  and  other  creditors  scratch  off  a  few  names  of  their 
debtors;  and  I  think  they  feel  disposed  to  do  it;  I  have  spoken  to  some  of  the 
directors  of  Z.  C.  M.  I.,  and  find  that  they  feel  about  as  we  do.  We  expect  to 
hear  a  report  from  them  before  long.  While  God  is  blessing  us,  let  us  bless 
one  another;  although  we  are  not  suffering,  neither  do  we  intend  to  suffer; 
God  will  not  let  us  if  we  will  not  let  one  another  suffer.  We  will  go  along  as 
if  we  had  no  drouth  or  dead  cattle,  or  any  other  stop,  and  everything  will  be 
prosperous.  There  is  now  every  prospect  of  a  good  harvest;  the  grain  is  not 
all  in  yet,  but  we  have  snow  in  the  mountains,  and  things  look  quite  prosper- 
ous. And  if  we  take  good  care  of  one  another,  God  will  take  care  of  us ;  and 
he  will  deliver  us  and  stretch  out  his  hand  in  our  behalf,  and  we  will  be  his 
people,  and  he  shall  be  our  God ;  and  we  will  treat  one  another  as  we  wish  to 
be  treated  by  one  another,  and  then  we  are  prepared  to  receive  blessings  from 
his  hands.  Amen. 

BISHOP   L.  W.  HARDY. 

The  principle  of  tithing  I  heartily  believe  in,  for  the  reason  that  the  Lord 
instituted  it  himself,  and,  therefore,  it  is  not  a  new  thing  on  the  earth.  It  is 
an  old  doctrine.  Even  Abraham  paid  his  tithes  to  Melchisedec  when  he  met 
him,  because  he  held  the  higher  priesthood  of  God.  We  have  had  many  les- 
sons on  this  subject,  so  many  that  it  is  almost  useless  to  talk  about  it  now. 
The  time  was,  since  we  came  to  the  valleys  of  the  mountains,  when  the  Saints 
had  nothing  to  pay  tithing  in  but  labor,  hence  they  devoted  every  tenth  day  to 
beautifying  and  building  up  this  city  and  other  cities.  Every  tenth  day  the 
Bishops  called  upon  those  that  lived  in  their  wards  to  go  to  work  on  the  pub- 
lic works  and  streets,  and  the  call  was  generally  very  promptly  responded  to. 
Thus  when  the  tithing  came  to  be  made  up  at  the  end  of  the  year,  the  tithing 
paid  in  this  way  amounted  to  about  $48.00  each  man.  As  time  wore  on,  how- 
ever, the  people  became  more  numerous,  and  as  they  had  so  much  to  do  for 
themselves,  they  began  to  pay  a  tenth  of  what  they  raised,  whatever  ihat 
might  be — say  butter,  cheese,  eggs,  or  anything  else  they  might  have  about 
their  farms,  and  this  amounted  to  a  large  sum  when  it  was  all  brought  in. 
Now,  we  find,  in  looking  over  the  schedules  for  1879,  men  that  we  know  are 
doing  a  pretty  good  business — we  find  that  they  have  paid  from  $3  to  $5, 
whereas  it  ought  to  be  from  $300  to  $500.  It  is  a  mockery  to  attempt  to  pay 
tithing  to  the  Lord  in  this  way.    Had  we  the  honest  tithing  of  this  people 


66 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


to-day,  we  would  not  require  to  ask  for  any  donations  to  the  temple ;  we  would 
have  sufficient  to  maintain  the  poor  and  pay  the  salaries  of  the  different  officers 
of  the  Church,  and  in  addition  to  this,  we  would  have  so  much  that  we  would 
scarcely  have  room  to  contain  it.  This  is  a  principle  that  the  Lord  demands 
of  this  people,  and  there  is  a  blessing  attached  to  it,  for  the  Lord  has  promised 
that  inasmuch  as  we  will  pay  our  tithes  he  will  open  the  windows  of  heaven 
and  pour  out  a  blessing  that  there  will  not  be  room  enough  to  receive  it. 

Elder  L.  John  Nuttall  then  read  the  names  of  Elders  called  to  go  on 
missions.    They  were  sustained  by  vote  of  the  Conference  as  follows: 

Great  Britain—  Charles  W.  Stayner,  Salt]  Lake  City;  Jesse  West,  6th 
Ward,  Salt  Lake  City;  John  Donaldson,  Mendon;  Samuel  Roskelley,  Smith- 
field;  William  Henry  Shepherd,  Beaver;  Joseph  Orton,  St.  George;  William 
C.  Parkinson,  Franklin;  Thomas  X.  Smith,  Logan;  David  Rees  Davis, 
Marsh  Valley,  Idaho;  Robert  Kewley,  Benson;  Thomas  Jackson,  Glenwood; 
William  D.Williams,  Ogden;  Edward  Kay,  Mona;  J.  W.  Gardiner,  Plea- 
sant Grove;  Thomas  C.  Griggs,  15th  Ward,  Salt  Lake  City;  Edward  King, 
15th  Ward,  Salt  Lake  City,  John  Evans,  Brigham  City;  Robert  L.  Fishburn, 
Brigham  City;  Thomas  Maycock,  3d  Ward,  Salt  Lake  City;  Lorenzo  Farr, 
Ogden;  Newton  Farr,  Ogden;  James  Finlayson,  Payson;  Wm.  C.  McGregor, 
Parowan;  James  Lowe,  Beaver. 

Europe. — C.  H.  Lundberg,  Logan;  Charles  P.  Warnick,  Pleasant  Grove; 
Hans  J.  Christiansen,  Logan;  Niels  O.  Anderson,  Ephraim;  Christian  Ho- 
gansen,  Montpelier,  Idaho;  Simon  Christensen,  Richfield;  Anders  Gustave, 
Johnson,  Grantsville;  John  Christensen,  Brigham;  Hans  Madsen,  Marriott; 
Peter  Anders  Lofgreen,  Huntsville;  Jens  Iver  Jensen,  Elsinore;  OleC.  Tellef- 
sen,  Hyrum;  John  Dahle,  Logan;  Lars  K.  Larsen,  Hyrum. 

United  States. — John  W.  Jackson,  Glenwood;  William  M.  Palmer,  Glen- 
wood; Hyrum  Jensen,  Salina;  Abraham  R.  Wright,  20th  Ward,  Salt  Lake 
City;  Jens  Frederick  Mortensen,  Salina;  Mads  Anderson,  Mount  Pleasant; 
Joseph  W.  Burt,  2 1st  Ward,  Salt  Lake  City;  B.  H.  Roberts,  Centreville; 
Thomas  Davies,  East  Portage;  Benjamin  Isaacs,  Spanish  Fork;  David 
Spillsbury,  Toquerville;  Alma  P.  Spillsbury,  Toquerville. 

Southern  States. — Henry  G.  Boyle,  Payson;  Geo.  ,0.  Pitkin,  Millville; 
Geo.  T.  Bean,  Richfield;  Wm.  J.  Bean,  Richfield;  Albert  D.  Thurber,  Rich- 
field; Peter  A.  Nebeker,  Willard;  Joseph  B.  Keeler,  Provo;  Walter  Scott, 
Provo;  Wm.  Clark,  Lehi;  Nicholas  H.  Groesbeck,  Springville. 

Germany. — Carl  C.  Schramm,  Payson;  John  Alder,  Manti;  Ulrich  Stauf- 
fer,  Willard;  Morris  D.  Rosenbaum,  Brigham. 

French  Switzerland. — Geo.  L.  Graehl,  Jr.,  Brigham. 
Netherlands  —  S.  Van  Dyke,  Ogden. 
Sandwich  Islands. — Sidney  Coray,  Provo. 
San  Juan.— Wm.  Hyde,  Salt  Lake  City. 

The  following  report  was  read : 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


67 


Statistical  Report  of  the  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union,  for  the  year  ending 

December  31  st,  1879: 

No.  of  Stakes  from  which  reports  have  been  received,  21 ;  No.  of  Sunday- 
Schools  reported,  256;  No.  of  officers  and  teachers,  4,998;  Average  attend- 
ance of  officers  and  teachers,  3,405;  No.  of  pupils,  30,768;  Average  attend- 
ance of  pupils,  21,922;  Total  number  of  officers,  teachers  and  pupils,  35,759; 
No.  of  Theological  Classes,  133;  No.  of  Bible  and  Testament  Classes,  991; 
No.  of  Book  of  Mormon  Classes,  361 ;  No.  of  Doctrine  and  Covenant  Classes, 
159;  No.  of  Juvenile  Instructor  Classes,  203;  No.  of  Jaques'  Catechism 
Classes,  187;  No.  of  Miscellaneous  Classes,  1,316;  Total  number  of  Classes, 
3,350;  No.  of  Books  in  Sunday  School  Libraries,  17,908;  Amount  of  funds 
on  hand,  end  of  previous  year,  $962.84;  Amount  of  funds  collected  in  1879, 
$5,742.75;  Amount  of  funds  disbursed  in  1879,  $5>SI3-93'>  Amount  of  funds 
in  treasury,  end  of  year,  $1,198.26;  No.  of  Schools  not  reported,  and  there- 
fore not  included  in  the  above  figures,  19. 

The  above  report  shows  an  increase  of  about  2,000  children  more  than 
were  reported  for  the  last  year;  and  also  a  proportionate  increase  in  the  num- 
ber of  classes  and  the  average  attendance  of  both  teachers  and  scholars,  num- 
ber of  books  in  libraries,  etc.  The  rapid  growth  and  prosperous  condition  of 
the  Sunday  School  cause  generally,  throughout  the  different  Stakes  of  Zion,  is 
very  gratifying  and  gives  us  abundant  cause  for  thankfulness  to  God  our  Hea- 
venly Father  for  his  blessings  on  his  faithful  servants  and  handmaidens  en- 
gaged in  this  good  and  great  work. 

Geo.  O.  Cannon, 
General  Superintendent  Deseret  S.  S.  Union. 
Geo.  Goddard,  Assistant. 
Levi  W.  Richards,  Secretary. 
John  C.  Cutler,  Treasurer  pro.  tern. 

PRESIDENT   JOHN  TAYLOE. 

I  do  not  know  whether  we  fully  understand  what  is  meant  by  holding  up 
our  hands  to  testify  that  we  will  sustain  these  missionaries.  I  will  tell  you  how 
I  understand  it.  In  the  first  place  we  select  the  very  best  men  we  can  find, 
and  we  do  not  want  anybody  to  go  but  those  who  have  the  spirit  of  their  mis- 
sion upon  them,  and  who  feel  a  desire  to  magnify  their  calling  and  priesthood. 
And  when  they  go,  we  wish  them  to  go  as  honorable  men,  and  we  also  want 
their  wives  to  be  treated  as  honorable  women  while  their  husbands  are  gone, 
and  inasmuch  as  they  or  their  families  need  assistance  or  looking  after — al- 
though it  is  not  all  who  do — we  expect  the  Presidents  of  Stakes  and  the 
Bishops  will  attend  to  such  matters;  that  the  wives  of  our  missionaries  may 
not  feel  as  though  they  were  outcasts;  but  as  honorable  women,  the  wives  of 
honorable  men,  and  more  so  than  those  who  are  not  doing  their  duty.  We 
want  the  missionaries'  wives  and  children  made  comfortable  and  taken 
care  of.  The  sisters  have  voted  to  let  us  have  some  of  their  wheat  for  the  re- 
lief of  the  poor.  Then  on  the  other  hand,  let  us  do  something  for  them.  It 
does  not  matter  how  much  we  pray  for  them,  for  this  is  in  accordance  with  our 
covenants  or  voting.    Some  people  would  rather  pray  for  them  than  relieve 


63 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


them.  Prayers  are  all  well  enough ;  but  a  little  flour,  a  little  pork,  a  little  beef, 
sugar,  store  goods,  and  temporal  comforts  are  a  great  deal  better  than  all  our 
prayers  without  this  material  assistance.  Let  us  look  after  their  welfare  as  we 
do  after  our  own  families,  while  their  husbands  are  making  a  sacrifice  in 
leaving  their  families  and  homes,  and  God  will  bless  us.  "Every  one,"  says 
the  Lord,  "that  hath  forsaken  houses,  or  brethren,  or  sisters,  or  father,  or  mo- 
ther, or  wife,  or  children,  or  lands,  for  my  name's  sake,  shall  receive  an  hun- 
dred fold,  and  shall  inherit  everlasting  life."  Let  us  make  the  words  of  the 
Lord  true.  Amen. 

Choir  sang  the  anthem, 

"  Resound  His  Praise. " 

Adjourned  till  2  p.m. 

Dismissed  with  prayer  by  Elder  Moses  Thatcher. 


Wednesday,  2  p.m. 

Choir  sang, 

"  Let  every  mortal  ear  attend, 
And  every  heart  rejoice." 

Prayer  by  Elder  Joseph  F.  Smith. 
Choir  sang, 

"  Hark  the  song  of  jubilee, 
Loud  as  mighty  thunders  roll." 

Elder  L.  John  Nuttall  presented  the  authorities  of  the  Church,  who 
were  unanimously  sustained  by  the  Conference,  as  follows: 

John  Taylor,  as  President  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  as  one 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

As  members  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles — Wilford  Woodruff, 
Orson  Pratt,  Charles  C.  Rich,  Lorenzo  Snow,  Erastus  Snow,  Franklin  D.  Rich- 
ards, George  O.  Cannon,  Brigham  Young,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Albert  Carring- 
ton  and  Moses  Thatcher. 

Counselors  to  the  Twelve  Apostles— John  W.  Young  and  D.  H.  Wells. 

The  Twelve  Apostles  as  the  presiding  quorum  and  authority  of  the 
Church,  and,  with  their  counselors,  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Patriarch  of  the  Church— John  Smith. 

As  the  First  Seven  Presidents  of  the  Seventies-^Joseph  Young,  Levi  W. 
Hancock,  Henry  Herriman,  Horace  S.  Eldredge,  Jacob  Gates  and  John 
Van  Cott. 

President  Joseph  Young  moved  that  Wm.  W.  Taylor  be  elected  one  of  the 
First  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies,  to  fill  the  vacancy  occasioned  by  the 
death  of  Elder  A.  P.  Rockwood.    Carried  unanimously. 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


69 


The  Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church,  Edward  Hunter,  with  Leonard  W. 
Hardy  and  Robert  T.  Burton  as  his  counselors. 

John  Taylor  as  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  body  of  religious  worshippers 
known  and  recognized  as  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  to 
hold  the  legal  title  to  its  property  and  contract  for  it. 

The  Twelve  Apostles,  their  two  counselors  and  Bishop  Edward  Hunter 
as  counselors  to  the  Trustee-in-Trust. 

Albert  Carrington  as  President  of  the  Perpetual  Emigrating  Fund  for  the 
Gathering  of  the  Poor,  and  F.  D.  Richards,  F.  M.  Lyman,  H.  S.  Eldredge, 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  John  W.  Young,  Angus  M.  Cannon,  Moses.  Thatcher,  Wm. 
Jennings,  John  R.  Winder,  Henry  Dinwoodey,  Robert  T.  Burton,  A.  O. 
Smoot  and  H.  B.  Clawson  as  his  assistants. 

Orson  Pratt  as  Historian  and  General  Church  Recorder,  and  Wilford 
Woodruff  as  his  assistant. 

Truman  O.  Angel  as  General  Architect  of  the  Church,  and  T.  O.  Angel, 
Junr.,  and  W.  H.  Folsom  as  his  assistants. 

As  Auditing  Committee— W.  Woodruff,  E.  Snow,  F.  D.  Richards,  J.F. 
Smith. 

George  Goddard  as  clerk  of  the  General  Conference. 

ELDER   ALBERT  CARRINGTON. 

At  any  time  at  your  pleasure,  by  turning  to  the  Second  Book  of  Nephi, 
nth  chapter,  15th  paragraph,  in  the  last  sentence  of  that  paragraph,  you  can 
read  these  words:  "But  the  laborer  in  Zion  shall  labor  for  Zion;  for  if  they 
labor  for  money  they  shall  perish."  I  presume  all  of  you  have  read,  or  have 
heard  read,  the  decree  of  Jehovah ;  but  have  we  fully  realized  that  inasmuch 
as  we,  his  covenant  people,  are  not  always  careful  to  observe  his  requirements 
with  due  strictness,  but  unduly  labor  for  that  which  perisheth,  and  spend  too 
much  of  our  time,  means  and  influence  for  that  which  only  pertains  to  this 
time,  we  also  run  great  risk  of  disappointment?  If  we  do  not  realize  this,  I 
really  think  it  behooves  us  to  comprehend  that  our  father  in  the  heavens  has 
decreed  that  we  shall  labor  for  Zion — for  the  upbuilding  and  establishment  of 
his  kingdom  upon  this  the  earth  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  Some  of  us  were 
aware  of  this  plain  declaration  nearly  fifty  years  ago,  but  have  we  diligently 
striven,  to  the  utmost  of  our  powers,  to  carry  out  that  requirement?  Have  we 
observed  it  with  all  care  and  singleness  of  purpose,  in  connection  with  many 
other  like  texts  ? 

Our  Father  has  also  taught  us,  through  his  revealed  will,  that  inasmuch  as 
the  inhabitants  of  this  land  of  Zion  will  seek  unto  him  and  learn  to  do  his  will, 
they  shall  prosper  spiritually  and  temporally — in  their  persons,  in  their  habita- 
tions, in  their  families,  and  in  all  that  pertains  to  them:  but  inasmuch  as  they 
will  not  do  his  will,  they  shall  be  cut  off  from  his  presence.  Are  there  any 
exceptions  to  that  decree  and  that  wise  purpose  of  our  Father?  Will  he  for 
our  sakes,  when  he  has  not  for  the  sake  of  our  forefathers,  change  his  unal- 
terable purpose  and  his  fixed  times  and  decrees?  I  think  not.  Is  it  not  then 
obligatory  upon  us  to  diligently  comply  with  all  these  plain  requirements,  and 
to  more  faithfully  bring  ourselves  in  accord  with  other  requirements  like  unto 
them,  wherein  we  are  required  to  love  one  another,  to  do  unto  others  as  we 


7o 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


would  they  should  do  unto  us,  to  love  the  Lord  our  God  with  all  our  might) 
mind  and  strength,  and  our  neighbor  as  ourselves?  Are  we  careful  on  these 
points?  Or  do  we  flatter  ourselves  that  these  plain,  righteous  requirements 
will  be  changed  to  suit  our  views,  our  convenience,  our  carelessness,  our  in- 
difference, and  at  times  our  niggardly,  selfish,  covetous"  feelings  ? 

As  I  do  not  deem  it  proper  to  occupy  much  time,  to  the  exclusion  of  others,  I 
will  confine,  my  remarks  more  purticularly  to  a  matter  that  I  have  been  much 
interested  in  from  the  day  of  a  vote  in  the  Temple  in  Nauvoo — the  gathering 
of  the  Lord's  poor.  In  1849  President  Young  initiated  the  Perpetual  Emigrat- 
ing Fund  Company,  and  in  1850,  if  I  correctly  remember,  that  Company  was 
organized  on  a  plan  to  be  perpetual  so  long  as  it  may  be  needed  by  the  poor 
of  scattered  Israel.  From  that  date  it  has  aided  thousands  upon  thousands 
from  the  bondage  of  oppression  and  poverty  in  far  off  lands  to  peaceful  and 
properous  homes  in  these  valleys  of  the  mountains,  and  above  all  to  the  bless- 
ings of  the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel.  Has  not  that  been  one  of  the  greatest 
blessings  and  privileges  to  all  who  have  thus  been  relieved? 

When  I  reflect  upon  these  facts,  and  bear  in  mind  that  much  care  has  been 
taken  for  a  right  application  of  the  funds,  even  all  possible  care,  so  far  as  I 
know,  and  then  turn  to  the  treatment  that  so  many  have  meted,  not  only  to  the 
Fund,  but  also  to  their  brethren  and  sisters  yet  ungathered,  many  of  whom  are 
in  more  adverse  circumstances  than  were  some  who  have  been  aided,  at  times 
I  should  almost  become  discouraged.  But  I  know  of  no  such  feeling  as  dis- 
couragement in  the  operations  of  the  Fund,  for  it  will  accomplish  its  work  as 
the  Lord  may  will,  however  much  individuals  may  fail  in  complying,  when 
able,  with  their  agreements.  But  how  those  who  have  been  and  are  able  to 
repay  are  so  slack,  careless  and  indifferent  in  regard  to  their  obligations  so 
thankfully  undertaken,  I  am  at  a  loss  to  comprehend.  Should  they  not,  for 
their  own  sakes  and  the  sakes  of  the  ungathered  poor,  be  more  diligent  in 
repaying  ? 

.  So  far  as  I  am  aware,  there  has  not  been  the  least  oppression  exercised  in 
trying  to  collect  indebtedness  to  the  P.  E.  Fund.  Do  we  now  wish  to  crowd, 
or  oppress,  or  infringe  upon  the  comfor  -  of  any  one  indebted  to  the  Fund  ?  No ; 
but  we  are  very  anxious  that  the  Fund  shall  be  able  this  season  to  aid  many 
from  the  adverse  circumstances  in  which  they  are.  Many  have  no  expectation 
of  deliverance  except  under  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  through  this  Fund. 
And  can  we  help  them  unless  those  pay  who  are  indebted?  Some  may  say, 
"Solicit  donations,"  and  may  wonder  why  donations  to  the  P.  E.  Fund  have 
not  been  solicited  for  some  time  past. 

In  1869  the  P.  E.  Fund  expended  some  $60,000  to  $70,000  for  the  emigra- 
tion of  the  poor.  The  next  season  it  was  hoped  that,  having  used  so  large  a 
sum  to  aid  those  who  had  but  ltttle,  and  frequently  no  means,  the  Fund  would 
be  able  to  assist  those  who  had  the  nearest  enough  for  their  emigration.  This 
would  have  been  a  stimulus  for  all  to  save  as  much  as  possible,  and  would 
have  gathered  a  much  larger  number  with  a  like  disbursement.  But  from  that 
day  to  this,  with  our  utmost  striving,  we  have  not  been  able  to  get  beyond  the 
suffering  poor,  for  that  clas's  increase  beyond  our  means.  This  I  have  regret- 
ted. This  regret  may  arise  from  a  lack  of  understanding  on  my  part,  for  our 
Fath  er  in  heaven  orders  all  things  wisely,  and  his  hand  is  in  all  these  matters. 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


7* 


He  rules  and  controls,  not  only  in  the  armies  of  heaven,  but  in  the  midst  of 
the  affairs  of  the  children  of  men,  disposing  the  results  of  their  acts  according 
to  his  own  good  will  and  pleasure.  Realizing  this,  I  have  not  felt  to  worry, 
but  I  have  felt  somewhat  grieved  that  we  have  not  been  able  to  more  effectu- 
ally encourage  those  who  are  doing  so  much  for  their  own  deliverance.  In 
the  meantime,  the  poor,  the  worthy,  faithful,  deserving  poor,  have  been  accu- 
mulating, in  spite  of  all  the  Fund  can  do.  We  endeavor,  all  in  our  power,  to 
collect  the  means  due  the  Fund,  and  then  to  expend  the  payments  and  dona- 
tions in  the  best  manner  possible. 

It  may  be  asked,  "  Have  you  not  aided  some  who  have  not  proved  faithful 
Latter-day  Saints  since  they  arrived  here?"  Yes;  and  how  can  you  foretell 
who  will  apostatize,  unless  you  have  direct  revelation  in  each  case  ?  We  have 
all  been  anxious,  and  have  taken  all  possible  care,  not  to  aid  any  who  would 
not  prove  worthy.  But  have  we  not  been  mistaken  in  some  instances,  after 
exercising  all  the  care  in  our  power?  Yes ;  some  whom  we  thought  to  be  good, 
faithful  Latter-day  Saints,  and  who,  so  far  as  we  could  learn,  were  so  there, 
and  had  been  all  the  while,  have,  since  their  arrival  here,  made  shipwreck  of 
their  faith;  and  at  the  same  time  have  not  had  enough  manhood,  or  principle, 
to  pay  back  the  means  advanced  to  help  them  out  of  bondage  to  a  land  of  liberty. 
Can  we  help  that?  Not  that  I  am  aware  of;  and  it  seems  impossible  for  us  to 
do  so,  try  we  ever  so  hard,  from  the  fact  that  this  kingdom  is  likened  to  a  net 
which  is  to  gather  fish  of  every  kind.  If  we  could  keep  out  the  garfish,  catfish, 
suckers,  and  every  other  kind  of  coarse  fish,  it  would  not  be  the  Gospel  net. 
Aside  from  this,  I  think  there  are  some  who,  if  they  had  remained  in  their  na- 
tive lands,  would  never  have  apostatized;  but  gather  them  here  and  they  apos- 
tatize !  That  also  seems  to  be  in  the  economy  of  this  great  latter-day  work,  so 
I  have  not  felt  to  critically  question  the  wisdom  or  good  judgment  of  those 
who  have  recommended  this,  that,  or  the  other  one  for  assistance,  even  when 
those  assisted  have  apostatized. 

President  Taylor,  the  Trustee-in-Trust,  has  presented  to  our  votes  the 
question  of  releasing  a  large  amount  of  back  tithing  indebtedness,  due  from 
those  who  are  aged  and  infirm,  and  others  who  have  no  prospect  for  paying. 
The  Bishops,  upon  due  examination,  will  recommend  for  relief,  stating  a  few 
chief  reasons  therefor;  then  the  Presidents  of  Stakes  will  examine  the  recom- 
mends made  by  the  Bishops,  and  add  such  comments  as  they  may  please,  and 
forward  the  lists  to  the  P.  E.  F.  Office  in  this  city,  where  they  can  be  carefully 
considered  and  then  submitted  to  President  Taylor,  under  whose  direction  the 
Fund  operates.  I  rejoice  that  the  worthy  poor,  struggling  with  adversity,  are 
to  be  so  kindly  treated,  and  are  to  be  left  free  and  untrammeled,  when  they 
cannot  possibly  free  themselves  in  any  other  way.  I  know  of  no  just  way  of 
becoming  clear  of  a  fair  indebtedness,  except  by  payment  or  forgiveness. 

That  reminds  me  of  another  class  of  Fund  debtors.  When  I  speak  to 
them  they  say:  "Oh,  yes,  we  are  abundantly  able  to  pay,  but  you  cannot  col- 
lect the  debt  by  law,  because  it  is  outlawed."  I  am  well  aware  that  I  cannot 
compel  you  by  law  to  pay  that  indebtedness,  neither  would  I  had  I  it  in  my 
power;  that  is  not  the  way  the  Fund  does  its  business.  All  its  business  is 
conducted  on  the  broad  principle  of  fairness  and  liberality,  wronging.no  one, 
benefitting  every  one  as  far  as  possible.    But  consider,  inasmuch  as  you  are 


72 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


able  to  pay  the  indebtedness  which  you  incurred  in  being  delivered  from  bond- 
age and  placed  where  you  can  provide  yourselves  with  the  necessaries  and 
comforts  of  life,  whether  you  are  even  worldly  wise  in  being  unwilling  to  repay 
that  amount  and  thus  prevent  others  enjoying  the  privileges  you  once  esteemed 
so  highly.  And  what  has  been  said  to  the  Saints  abroad  when  they  have  im- 
portuned and  plead,  and  promised  to  repay  soon  after  arriving  here— they  know 
how  they  plead,  they  know  how  they  promised— many  professing  to  be  willing 
to  bind  themselves  for  a  lifetime  if  they  could  only  be  gathered  to  these  moun- 
tains. What  has  been  said  to  them?  You  do  not  understand  what  you  are 
talking  about.  You  may  not  find  things  altogether  as  you  anticipate.  You 
may  meet  with  disappointment  and  misfortune.  We  will  help  you,  we  will 
send  you  through  as  comfortably  and  as  cheaply  as  we  can ;  and  when  you  ar- 
rive there  and  find  employment,  just  pay  your  tithing  faithfully  and  promptly, 
provide  yourselves  with  shelter,  comfortable  clothing,  food  and  fuel,  all  of 
which  things  you  will  need;  then,  please,  when  you  have  done  all  this,  begin 
to  pay  your  indebtedness  to  the  Fund ;  pay  one  dollar,  two  dollars,  ten  dollars, 
as  you  are  able,  without  depriving  yourselves  of  the  necessaries  of  life,  and  in 
that  way  you  will  all  the  while  keep  the  spirit  of  the  work  which  you  now 
measurably  enjoy,  and  it  will  grow  and  increase,  because  you  will  be  comply- 
ing with  the  requirements  of  the  Gospel.  And  others  in  like,  or  worse,  cir- 
cumstances can  be  helped  through  your  paying  the  obligations  you  are  so 
strongly  pleading  to  be  allowed,  and  so  energetically  promising  you  will  pay 
as  fast  as  possible.  Ought  not  these  fair  requirements  to  be  complied  with  by 
those  who  have  been  aided,  as  soon  and  as  far  as  may  be  in  their  power, 
through  their  faithfulness? 

After  all  indebtedness  to  the  Fund  has  been  remitted,  that  ought  to  be, 
there  will  still  be  a  large  sum  due.  Will  we  be  able  to  collect  all  of  that?  I 
am  afraid  not;  for  some  Fund  debtors  who  had  property  have  apostatized, 
and  others  have  accumulated  property  since  they  apostatized,  without  sufficient 
manhood  to  repay  the  means  that  enabled  them  to  be  here.  They  worship  the 
world,  have  apostatized  and  gone  with  the  world.  I  pity  them,  because  they 
are  traveling  on  a  road  of  exceeding  darkness;  and  they  cannot  see  things  as 
they  are,  or  they  would  pay  their  Fund  indebtedness. 

As  to  interest  on  sums  advanced,  has  any  one  been  crowded  in  the  least 
in  regard  to  payment  of  interest?  Not  to  my  knowledge.  Have  some  paid 
their  indebtedness  with  interest,  without  grumbling,  and  preferring  so  to  do? 
Yes.  Who  are  they?  Those  who  rejoice  in  the  light,  life  and  intelligence  of 
a  goodly  measure  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  which  is  beyond  all  comparison  as  to 
value.  Others,  when  making  payment,  have  said:  "With  regard  to  the  inter- 
est, I  do  not  like  that."  Has  not  the  interest  been  put  at  the  lowest  rate? 
Could  you  borrow  a  like  amount  from  any  one,  during  all  these  years,  for  less  ? 
You  cannot  borrow  money  in  small  amounts  to-day  for  so  low  an  interest,  and 
scarcely  large  amounts  at  so  low  a  rate,  except  with  the  very  best  security. 
The  Fund  has  never  asked  more  than  ten  per  cent.,  and  it  was  placed  at  that 
rate  under  the  instruction  of  President  Young.  How  long  it  will  so  remain  I 
do  not  know.  Some  will  say,  "  I  am  willing  to  pay  a  little  interest."  Very 
well,  how  much  are  you  willing  to  pay,  and  feel  well  about  it?  "I  am  willing 
to  pay  five  per  cent."   Very  well;  Bro.  Anderson,  cast  the  interest  at  five  per 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


73 


cent,  and  give  up  the  note,  though  the  other  five  per  cent,  belongs  to  the  Fund 
by  his  own  gladly  undertaken  agreement.  Another  says:  "I  am  willing  to 
pay  the  principal,  but  I  will  not  pay  any  interest."  That  is  not  very  polite* 
though  it  certainly  is  plain.  Pay  us  the  principal  and  you  can  have  your  note. 
And  lately  some  have  gone  so  far  as  to  ask  us  to  forego  a  portion  of  the  prin- 
cipal, which  we  have  not  felt  at  liberty  to  do;  but  now  all  such  persons  can 
apply  to  their  Bishops,  and  they  will  report.  Can  any  one  discern  any  crowd- 
ing or  oppression  in  these  cases?  Now,  in  all  kindness,  in  all  sincerity,  I  ear- 
nestly solicit  the  debtors  to  the  Fund,  for  their  own  sakes,  for  the  sake  of  the 
work  they  profess  to  uphold^and  sustain,  and  for  the  sake  of  the  ungathered  poor 
in  their  poverty  and  bondage,  to  wake  up  and  help  this  season,  so  far  as  they 
maybe  able,  that  more  of  the  Lord's  poor  may  also  rejoice  in  their  deliverance. 

As  to  the  application  of  the  funds  in  assisting,  it  has  been  the  custom,  as 
a  general  practice,  to  use  the  very  best  information  to  be  had  as  to  the  disposal 
of  any  given  amount.  On  that  plan,  last  season  and  the  season  before,  most 
of  the  means  were  directed  from  the  P.  E.  Fund  office.  This  season  they  have 
the  best  information  at  the  office  in  Liverpool,  or  can  obtain  it,  with  regard  to 
the  condition  and  circumstances  of  the  Saints,  for  which  reason  all  the  means 
we  receive,  except  small  amounts  loaned  to  those  who  have  nearly  enough, 
and  to  be  returned  in  time  for  this  year's  emigration,  are  forwarded  to  Liver- 
pool, to  be  distributed  as  the  authorities  there  may  deem  best.  But  with  all 
our  efforts  since  the  close  of  last  season,  after  paying  off  an  indebtedness  in- 
curred in  helping  a  number  of  Saints  from  the  East  who  had  been  mobbed,  we 
had  only  ^112,  or  $543,  to  send  to  Liverpool  for  the  April  company.  That 
would  not  emigrate  one  large  destitute  family;  it  is  a  mere  drop  in  the  bucket. 
But  it  was  all  we  had;  and  we  were  obliged  to  instruct  that  the  amount  must 
not  be  exceeded,  because  we  have  no  right  to  fall  back  upon  the  Trustee,  and 
ask  him  to  pay  indebtedness  incurred  by  the  operations  of  the  Fund.  ■'Will 
we  be  able  to  forward  any  money  for  the  May  company?  Only  a  very  small 
amount,  so  far  as  I  know,  though  this  rests  with  those  who  are  due  the  Fund. 

Some  may  wish  to  know  why  the  making  of  donations  has  not  been  urged 
more  than  it  has.  In  1869  there  were  so  many  assisted  that  it  interfered  with 
other  arrangements,  not  known  at  the  time ;  and  before  there  were  means  for 
overcoming  that  difficulty,  the  financial  crash  of  I873  occurred.  When  I  spoke 
to  President  Young  about  donations,  he  said:  "Wait  a  while;  the  people  are 
poor  just  now.  Try  and  collect  the  indebtedness,  as  far  as  you  can  "  And 
since  then,  among  other  reasons,  I  have  not  felt  to  solicit  donations,  because 
it  is  well  known  that  there  is  a  very  large  sum  due  to  the  Fund,  so  large  that, 
if  we  could  only  receive  one-half  of  it,  we  could  gather  all  that  any  one  would 
say  ought  to  be  gathered,  and  then  have  much  money  left  to  go  on  with;  and 
were  I  to  solicit  aid  under  such  circumstances,  I  am  of  the  opinion  that  I  might 
be  advised  to  collect  what  is  due  to  the  Fund.  And  what  could  I  say?  I  have 
yet  to  learn  what  I  would  be  able  to  say. 

I  deem  the  gathering  of  scattered  Israel  to  be  a  part  of  the  work  that  be- 
longs to  us  as  Latter-day  Saints,  in  building  up  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of 
our  God  upon  the  earth.  I  think  it  is  part  of  our  labor,  the  same  as  building 
temples,  sustaining  the  poor,  sending  missionaries  abroad  and  sustaining  their 
families  when  necessary,  and  all  that  tends  to  spread  the  principles  of  truth 


74 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  righteousness  the  wide  world  over.  But  do  I  wish  to  give  the  gathering 
of  the  poor  an  undue  share  of  the  means,  of  the  labor,  and  of  the  time  that 
pertains  to  this  great  latter-day  work?  I  do  not  know  that  I  do.  But  I  feel 
anxious  for  the  debtors  to  the  Fund  to  so  far  honor  our  God  and  themselves  as 
to  free  themselves  from  this  indebtedness  as  speedily  as  they  may  be  able,  and 
thus  free  the  scattered  poor  from  bondage,  and  bring  them  here  to  enjoy  the 
blessings  we  enjoy;  and  I  can  not  see  how  we  are  going  to  entirely  escape  a 
measure  of  the  condemnation  made  known  in  the  paragraph  I  have  quoted, 
except  we  are  a  little  more  diligent  in  attending  to  these  matters.  And  I  trust 
you  will  not  blame  us  when  we  entreat  those  who  are  able  to  pay  their  indebt- 
edness to  the  Fund  as  soon  as  possible. 
God  bless  you.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT   JOHN"  TAYLOR. 

In  relation  to  the  subject  that  I  referred  to  this  morning  pertaining  to  the 
Co-op,  I  am  informed  that  they  are  very  busy  with  their  affairs  and  have  not 
had  time  to  make  any  specific  statement  pertaining  to  this  matter ;  but  they 
feel  disposed  to  unite  with  us  in  relieving  the  necessitous  and  worthy,  as  far 
as  they  would  be  justified  in  the  premises,  and  in  accordance  with  correct 
principles,  to  do  their  part.  I  would  here  remark  that  the  same  kind  of  feel- 
ing would  be  very  commendable  on  the  part  of  other  store-keepers,  bankers, 
or  any  one  of  us  to  relieve  each  other. 

I  would  make  a  statement  in  relation  to  the  Co-op.  I  have  had  reports 
from  the  north,  that  some  parties  who  ought  to  know  better,  had  said  that  the 
Co-op.  was  no  longer  a  Church  institution,  and  that  it  was  managed,  directed 
and  controlled  by  a  few  monopolists,  and  that  we  were  asking  the  people  to 
sustain  them  in  their  operations,  which  I  consider  very  infamous  talk,  and 
especially  coming  from  men  who  profess  to  be  men  of  honor.  The  Church,  I 
will  here  say,  holds  an  interest  in  that  establishment  to  the  amount  of  $360,000, 
and  then  there  are  580  stockholders,  who  are  Latter-day  Saints,  in  it,  besides 
the  interest  which  the  Church  holds.  And  when  men  make  such  statements  I 
consider  it  infamous  and  contrary  to  correct  principles ;  and  I  should  recom- 
mend their  bishops  and  the  authorities  of  the  Church  where  they  live  to  bring 
them  up  for  slander  and  treat  them  accordingly.  That  enterprise  was  started 
as  is  properly  implied  by  the  initials  of  its  name.  What  is  it?  "Zion's  Co- 
operative Mercantile  Institution."  They  had  for  sometime  difficulties  to  cope 
with;  perhaps  things  might  not  have  been  managed  as  well  as  they  could 
have  been.  There  may  have  been  errors  in  judgment.  For  sometime  they 
did  not  pay  dividends;  but  latterly  they  have  paid  what  might  be  considered  a 
fair  dividend,  and  the  Institution  never  was  in  a  better  condition  than  it  is  to- 
day. I  speak  of  this  that  you  who  are  stockholders  in  that  institution  may 
not  be  imposed  upon  by  speculators  who  would  seek  by  false  representations 
to  get  from  you  your  stock  at  less  figures  than  it  is  really  worth,  I  think  it 
is  our  duty,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  to  sustain  that  institution;  and  then,  on  the 
other  hand,  I  think  it  is  the  duty  of  that  institution  to  sustain  the  Saints,  and 
let  us  get  closer  together  in  our  relationship,  and  act  honorably  and  uprightly 
in  everything  we  engage  in,  then  we  can  secure  the  blessing  of  the  Almighty. 
I  thought  I  would  say  so  much  in  relation  to  this  matter. 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


75 


In  regard  to  the  work  we  are  engaged  in,  it  is  one  of  very  great  impor- 
tance; it  is  one  on  which  God  and  angels,  apostles,  prophets,  patriarchs  and 
men  of  God  who  have  lived  in  the  different  ages  of  the  world,  have  felt  in- 
terested about;  and  do  to-day.  And  about  these  little  matters  of  dollars  and 
cents  we  do  not  care  so  much  about  them  or  ought  not  to ;  although  we  have 
to  attend  to  all  these  matters — matters  temporal,  matters  spiritual,  things  per- 
taining to  time  and  things  pertaining  to  eternity.  It  is  expected  of  us  that  we 
act  wisely,  prudently  and  understandingly  in  all  of  our  doings.  And  in  speak- 
ing of  the  Perpetual  Emigrating  Fund  Company's  operations,  we  expect  that 
all  decent  men  will  meet  their  obligations,  and  those  who  are  not  of  that  class 
will  not.  We  will  forgive  the  poor  and  let  them  go,  and  the  others  may  go  if 
they  want  to.  But  we  will  not  release  them  from  their  indebtedness  if  they 
are  able  to  pay  it.  Is  not  that  just?  I  think  it  is.  We  will  relieve  the  poor 
and  needy;  but  as  to  those  people  who  have  called  upon  you — and  you  have 
sent  out  your  teams  and  have  loaded  those  teams  with  provisions  of  all  kinds, 
and  you  have  either  gone  yourselves  or  sent  your  sons  to  drive  them,  to  help 
them  in,  if  those  men  do  not  feel  like  acting  just  and  right,  let  them  be  con- 
sidered among  the  unjust  who  have  used  your  means  which  was  appropriated 
by  you  to  relieve  the  necessitous  and  have  not  had  the  honesty  to  return  it, 
but  as  to  the  poor,  the  needy  and  distressed,  we  will  come  to  their  relief  and 
help  them,  the  same  as  we  are  obliged  to  go  to  God  our  Heavenly  Father  and 
ask  him  to  help  us,  for  we  are  all  dependent  upon  the  mercy  of  God,  we  live 
in  him,  we  move  in  him,  and  to  him- we  are  indebted  for  our  existence  as  well 
as  for  every  blessing  that  we  enjoy  pertaining  to  time  or  eternity.  He  has  re- 
vealed unto  us  the  fullness  of  the  blessings  of  the  gospel  of  peace,  he  has  taken 
our  feet  from  the  mire  and  clay  and  has  planted  us  upon  the  rock  of  eternal 
truth,  he  has  imparted  unto  us  the  light,  intelligence  and  revelation  of  heaven, 
he  has  made  us  to  sit  together  in  heavenly  places  in  Jesus  Christ,  he  has 
taught  us  how  to  save  ourselves  and  our  families,  how  to  save  our  progenitors 
and  how  to  save  our  posterity.  And  we  have  this  labor  to  perform.  And  if 
we  have  gone  forth  and  assisted  our  brethren  we  have  only  done  our  duty, 
and  what  was  there  so  much  after  all?  Not  much,  we  have  simply  performed 
a  duty — a  duty  we  owed  to  God  and  our  brethren.  If  we  had  not  had  the 
means  we  could  not  have  given  it,  and  having  given  it,  we  will  continue  to  do 
the  best  we  can  and  we  will  keep  on  doing,  helping  all,  comforting  all,  reliev- 
ing all,  teaching  all  and  seeking  to  promote  the  well  being  of  the  human  fam- 
ily and  to  carry  out  the  designs  of  God  in  the  best  manner  that  we  can. 

One  duty  we  owe  to  the  world  is  to  preach  to  them  the  gospel,  and  for 
that  the  priesthood  is  organized  in  part.  The  Elders  are  sent  forth  from  time 
to  time — many  that  are  around  me  on  my  right  and  left  and  also  before  me 
have  gone  forth  "weeping,  bearing  precious  seed,"  they  have  gone  in  the 
midst  of  persecution  and  affliction,  to  an  unthankful  world,  to  proclaim  to  the 
people  the  glad  tidings  of  salvation,  and  they  have  "returned  again  rejoicing 
bringing  their  sheaves  with  them."  And  we  are  still  doing  the  same,  the 
Lord  has  laid  it  upon  us  and  it  must  be  done.  And  when  we  send  out  mission- 
aries— I  was  told  that  some  did  not  hear  what  I  said  this  morning  upon  this 
subject,  I  will  try  to  make  you  all  hear  now — when  we  send  out  missionaries 
we  want  you  to  see  that  their  families  are  provided  for  in  their  absence,  if  they 


76 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


have  not  the  means  to  do  it  themselves,  stand  by  them  and  treat  them  kindly 
and  provide  them  with  the  necessaries  of  life  that  they  require,  that  they  may 
be  comfortable  and  made  happy  and  be  one  with  us,  and  while  our  brethren 
are  engaged  laboring  abroad,  notable  to  provide  for  their  families,  let  us  pro- 
vide for  them.  And  we  call  upon  the  presidents  of  Stakes,  and  upon  the  bis- 
hops and  upon  the  people  where  they  reside  to  see  that  these  things  are  at- 
tended too,  that  the  families  of  our  missionary  brethren  are  made  comfortable 
and  happy.  Our  brethren  under  these  circumstances  can  feel  contented  and 
can  go  forth  with  satisfaction  and  joy.  "Why,"  they  will  say,  "we  are  going 
forth  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  trusting  in  the  God  of  Israel,  and  while  we  are 
gone  we  have  left  our  families  among  our  friends  who  will  take  care  of  them, 
and  all  is  well  and  all  will  be  well."  When  you  do  that  they  will  bless  you 
and  you  will  be  blessed  in  time  and  in  eternity.  It  is  a  great  privilege  to  be 
able  to  do  good.  Did  you  ever  think  of  it?  Jesus  said,  "Make  to  yourselves 
friends  of  the  mammon  of  unrighteousness,  that  when  ye  fail  they  may  receive 
you  into  everlasting  habitations."  Then  let  us  feel  after  the  welfare  of  our 
brethren,  and  we  will  not  dwell  much  upon  one  another's  weaknesses,  for  God 
knows  that  all  of  us  have  enough  of  them,  at  least,  I  feel  I  have,  and  I  think 
my  brethren  feel  that  they  have,  and  I  do  not  think  that  many  of  you  are  very 
much  better  than  we  are.  But  I  tell  you  what  we  desire  to  do  and  to  see  car- 
ried out.  We  wish  correct  principles  to  be  carried  out,  and  while  we  are 
sending  the  gospel  to  the  nations  afar  off,  we  want  to  see  the  pure  principles 
of  the  gospel  lived  up  to  at  home.  We  do  not  want  to  be  influenced  by  th*e 
corruptions  that  float  upon  us  here.  While  we  respect  proper  authority  and 
pay  proper  deference  to  all  honorable  men  in  all  positions  in  our  country,  we 
do  not  want  to  copy  after  the  devices  of  this  corrupt  generation,  we  want 
them  to  keep  them  to  themselves  if  they  admire  them.  We  neither  want 
drunkenness  nor  whoredom  nor  infanticide  nor  foeticide  nor  any  of  the  cor- 
ruptions that  abound  throughout  the  world,  or  of  this  nation,  of  which  every 
honorable  man  ought  to  and  does  feel  ashamed.  We  want  to  train  up  our 
youth  in  the  fear  of  God,  and  hence  we  have  our  Young  Men's  and  Young 
Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  Associations,  which  are  doing  a  great  deal  ot 
good  throughout  the  land  in  teaching  and  being  taught  correct  principles. 
It  is  our  youth  that  are  growing  up  that  we  shall  have  to  look  to,  by  and  by, 
to  bear  off  this  kingdom,  and  we  wish  the  fathers  and  mothers  to  set  their 
children  a  good  and  proper  example,  to  be  patterns  of  purity,  of  honesty, 
truth,  integrity  and  uprightness,  that  they  may  be  able  to  meet  and  look 
every  man  in  the  face  with  a  clear  conscience  and  open  countenance,  and  not 
be  obliged  to  dodge  around  corners  for  fear  of  some  one  seeing  them  and 
finding  them  out.  There  are  no  people  under  the  heavens  that  make  greater 
pretensions  than  we,  there  are  no  people  under  the  heavens  that  have  been 
more  favored  of  God  than  we  have  been.  We  feel  inclined  sometimes  to 
murmur  and  complain  about  the  nation  to  which  we  belong.  It  is  true  they 
have  not  treated  us  very  generously  or  very  kindly  in  many  respects,  but  the 
Lord  seems  to  take  care  of  us,  and  we  do  not  suffer  much  do  we?  We  en- 
joy more  liberty  to-day  than  millions  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  world  do.  And 
I  do  not  know  of  any  nation  under  the  heavens  where  we  would  be  better 
protected  than  we  are  here,  thanks  to  many  honorable  men  and  thanks  to  the 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


77 


God  of  Israel  who  has  delivered  us  and  who  has  told  us  that  he  would 
watch  over  us  and  take  care  of  us  and  provide  for  us,  which  he  has  done, 
and  I  feel  grateful  to  him.  For  this,  however,  we  are  not  under  any  obli- 
gations to  our  enemies,  but  no  matter,  if  they  can  stand  it  we  can.  When 
I  see  men  violating  the  sacred  principles  of  liberty  and  trampling  under 
foot  the  institutions  of  our  nation,  I  feel  to  realize  that  they  are  the  enemies 
of  mankind  and  of  the  nation.  I  do  not  care  what  position  they  occupy.  God 
will  hold  them  to  an  account,  as  breakers  of  their  own  covenants.  We  will 
try,  however,  to  maintain  our  own,  and  treat  everybody  right,  and  pray  for  all 
honorable  men,  and  let  the  devil  take  care  of  the  balance.  (Laughter).  This 
is  how  I  feel  in  relation  to  these  matters.  We  want  among  ourselves  to  learn 
strictly  the  principles  of  honesty,  to  have  and  maintain  honest  dealing  one 
with  another  and  be  true  to  our  word,  and  to  let  our  word  be  our  bond.  And 
never  mind  so  much  about  litigation.  I  do  not  know  that  I  ever  sued  a  man 
in  my  life,  and  I  do  not  think  that  I  ever  shall.  I  am  not  fond  enough  of  law, 
or  money  either,  to  do  it.  And  God  will  help  us  and  protect  us  in  our  rights, 
if  we  will  only  do  right.  And  then  we  Latter-day  Saints,  we  elders  of  Israel 
and  we  sisters  of  Israel,  we  ought  to  be  ladies  and  gentlemen,  we  ought  to 
treat  one  another  with  courtesy  and  kindness,  and  true  politeness.  Lord 
Chesterfield  and  others  have  written  long  treatises  on  politeness.  I  will  tell 
you,  in  a  few  words,  what  it  is  to  be  polite:  try  to  make  everybody  as  com- 
fortable and  happy  as  you  can,  in  all  your  words  and  in  all  your  acts,  and 
then  you  will  be  polite.  Study  the  feelings  of  those  with  whom  you  are  asso- 
ciated and  those  with  whom  you  come  in  contact.  And  when  a  man  meets  an 
elder,  why,  says  he,  that  is  an  honorable  man,  that  man  is  anointed  of  the 
Lord,  I  will  respect  him,  I  expect  to  be  associated  with  him  in  time  and  in 
eternity,  and  shall  I  degrade  myself  by  speaking  harshly  or  acting  harshly 
towards  him?  No,  but  we  will  treat  one  another  with  kindness  and  courtesy. 
And  we  will  treat  our  sisters  in  the  same  way,  and  act  the  part  of  gentlemen 
towards  them,  and  protect  them  in  all  their  rights  and  in  all  their  privi- 
leges, and  never  be  afraid  that  they  are  going  to  run  away  with  some  of  our 
rights.  When  I  hear  people  talk  that  way  I  think  they  are  a  little  in  doubt 
of  themselves.  Why,  we  expect  our  sisters — our  wives — to  be  with  us  rwt 
only  in  time,  but  in  eternity;  and  let  us  treat  them  accordingly,  with  kindness, 
with  affection,  with  love  and  with  esteem.  And  then  let  the  sisters  turn  round 
and  treat  their  husbands  and  brothers  and  fathers  in  the  same  way;  and  let  us 
all  cultivate  those  principles  that  are  calculated  to  promote  one  another's  hap- 
piness and  peace,  that  it  may  reign  in  our  own  bosoms,  and  dwell  in  our  habi- 
tations, and  prevail  throughout  the  land,  that  the  peace  of  God  and  the  bless- 
ing of  God  may  rest  upon  us.  And  while  we  feel  a  disposition  to  do  right  and 
to  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  God  will  bless  us  and  sustain  us  in  all  of 
our  operations ;  and  every  plot  and  every  contrivance  devised  against  us  will 
fall  to  the  ground,  for  God  will  be  our  deliverer  and  our  protector.  Let  us  train 
up  our  children  in  the  fear  of  God  too,  and  watch  over  their  morals,  and  espe- 
cially the  morals  of  our  daughters,  and  see  that  they  do  not  get  led  astray  in 
the  paths  of  iniquity;  but  watch  over  them  and  pray  with  them  and  for  them; 
and  pray  for  one  another,  and  sustain  one  another,  and  help  one  another,  and 
bless  one  another,  and  God  will  bless  us. 


78 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


We  are  sending  out  persons  to  go  and  extend  the  borders  of  Zion,  to  make 
new  settlements.  I  was  very  much  pleased  to  hear  some  remarks  made  by 
Brother  Woodruff  in  relation  to  these  things,  and  the  acts  and  doings  of  the 
brethren  in  Arizona,  a*id  of  some  of  the  new  settlements  south  and  southeast. 
There  is  a  number  of  "those  settlements  referred  to  by  Brother  Woodruff,  the 
members  of  which  we  advised  when  they  went,  to  come  as  near  to  the  United 
Order  as  they  could — that  is,  to  be  united.  Brother  Woodruff  says  that  in 
those  new  settlements  he  did  not  see  a  man  drunk,  he  did  not  hear  a  man 
swear,  neither  did  he  see  any  person  use  tea  or  coffee.  In  this  respect  they 
are  setting  an  example  that  it  would  be  well  for  us  to  follow.  And,  then,  do 
not  pursue  that  licentious  course  exhibited  around  us  here.  It  is  this  d — d 
infernal  "civilization"  that  has  introduced  these  infamies  into  our  midst.  Let 
us  purge  ourselves  from  them,  and  not  mix  Up  with  their  ungodly  doings.  Ex- 
cuse me  for  the  remarks,  but  they  are  true  before  God ;  they  are  both  damned 
and  infernal,  for  those  who  practice  them  will  be  damned,  and  they  are  infer- 
nal, because  they  proceed  from  the  infernal  regions.  I  do  not  care  who  sus- 
tains them,  whether  governors,  judges,  priests,  or  whatever  they  may  be ;  they 
are  of  their  father,  the  devil,  who  sustains  those  things  and  maintains  them. 
Those  crimes  are  not  original  with  us ;  they  are  brought  here  to  try  to  cor- 
rupt and  enslave  and  debase  and  pollute  us.  Keep  yourselves  pure  from 
these  corruptions,  and  walk  worthily  of  the  high  vocation  whereunto  you 
are  called. 

I  heard  the  other  day  from  one  of  our  speakers  that  there  were  Elders,  High 
Priests  and  Seventies  who  got  drunk.  What  are  the  Bishops  doing?  What 
are  the  Presidents  of  .Stakes  doing?  Why  do  you  not  bring  them  up  and  cut 
them  off  from  the  Church — any  such  Elder,  any  such  High  Priest,  or  any 
such  Seventy,  or  any  of  the  Saints  who  may  be  found  guilty  of  such  thing? 
For  they  are  hypocrites,  and  want  dealing  with  and  severing  from  the  Church. 
Furthermore,  I  have  heard  of  some  Bishops  who  have  been  seeking  to  cover 
up  the  iniquities  of  men ;  I  tell  them,  in  the  name  of  God,  they  will  have  to 
bear  them  themselves,  and  meet  that  judgment;  and  I  tell  you  that  any  man 
who  tampers  with  iniquity,  he  will  have  to  bear  that  iniquity,  and  if  any  of  you 
want  to  partake  of  the  sins  of  men,  or  uphold  them,  you  will  have  to  bear  them. 
Do  you  hear  it,  you  Bishops  and  you  Presidents?  God  will  require  it  at 
your  hands.  You  are  not  placed  in  position  to  tamper  with  the  principles  of 
righteousness,  nor  to  cover  up  the  infamies  and  corruptions  of  men.  Now,  do 
not  say  you  did  not  know  anything  about  it;  I  have  given  you  fair  warning, 
and  I  clear  my  skirts  of  your  blood;  and  their  infamies  will  cleave  to  you  un- 
less you  attend  to  it. 

God  expects  us  to  do  right;  he  has  giveu  unto  us  the  priesthood  for  that 
purpose,  and  he  requires  us  to  magnify  it  and  honor  it  and  carry  it  out.  And 
it  is  the  place  of  those  men,  and  the  place  of  the  teachers  to  see  that  there  is 
no  iniquity  in  the  Church;  and  if  they  do  not  do  their  duty,  it  then  becomes 
the  duty  of  the  Bishops  to  see  to  it;  and  if  the  Bishops  do  not  see  to  it,  it  is 
the  place  of  the  Presidents  of  Stakes  to  see  to  it;  and  if  they  do  not  see  to  it, 
and  it  comes  to  our  ears,  it  will  then  become  our  duty  to  see  to  it,  and  also  to 
see  to  them  who  do  not  magnify  their  calling.  God  will  not  be  mocked. 
"Whatsoever  a  man  soweth,  that  shall  he  also  reap;  if  he  sows  to  the  flesh, 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  GONFERENCE. 


79 


he  shall  of  the  flesh  reap  corruption;  if  he  sows  to  the  spirit,  he  shall  of  the 
spirit  reap  life  everlasting." 

We  are  gathered  here  to  serve  God ;  we  are  gathered  here  to  be  taught  in 
the  ways  of  the  Lord;  we  are  gathered  here  to  build  up  temples,  and  then  to 
administer  in  them;  we  are  gathered  here  to  send  the  Gospel  to  the  nations  of 
the  earth,  and  to  fulfil  those  various  requirements  v/hich  God  has  placed  upon 
us  to  attend  to;  and  if  we  are  faithful  in  all  our  duties,  God  will  bless  us. 

I  find  that  the  time  has  expired.  Shall  we  continue  the  Conference  an- 
other day?  All  who  desire  to  do  so  say  aye.  (The  vast  congregation  re- 
sponded "  aye.") 

Choir  sang  the  anthem, 

"Sing  to  the  Lord  a  joyful  strain." 

Adjourned  till  Thursday,  at  10  a.m. 

Dismissed  with  prayer  by  Elder  Brigham  Young. 


THIRD  DAY. 

Thursday,  io  a.m. 

Choir  sang, 

"Praise  ye  the  Lord,  my  heart  shall  join 
In  work  so  pleasant,  so  divine." 

Prayer  by  Elder  Orson  Pratt. 
Choir  sang, 

"Joy  to  the  world — the  Lord  will  come, 
And  earth  receive  her  king." 

ELDER   LORENZO  SNOW. 

We,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  profess  to  believe  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  in 
the  restoration  of  the  fulness  of  the  everlasting  Gospel,  in  the  restoration  of 
the  Holy  Priesthood,  with  its  privileges  and  powers,  and  in  the  restoration  of 
the  authority  to  administer  to  the  sick,  and  to  receive,  through  the  medium  of 
this  Gospel  which  we  have  espoused,  supernatural  gifts  and  blessings,  the 
Holy  Spirit,  which  communicates  a  knowledge  of  things  past,  of  things 
present  and  of  things  to  come.  And  when  we  received  this  Gospel,  we  cove- 
nanted before  God  that  we  would  be  led,  that  we  would  be  governed,  and 
would  follow  the  suggestions  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  that  we  would  follow  the 
suggestions  of  the  principle  that  gives  life,  that  gives  knowledge,  that  gives 
understanding  of  the  things  of  God,  that  communicates  the  mind  of  God ;  and 
that  we  would  labor  for  the  accomplishment  of  the  purposes  of  God  in  the 
salvation  of  the  human  family,  adopting  as  a  motto  of  life,  "  The  Kingdom  of 
God,  or  nothing."  How  far  we  have  kept  these  covenants  during  the  past 
fifty  years,  and  followed  the  dictates  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  we  ourselves  must  be 


8o 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  judges.  So  far  as  we  have  done  this,  so  far  have  the  blessings  of  the  Al- 
mighty descended  upon  us,  and  our  minds  have  been  enlightened,  our  under- 
standings enlarged,  and  we  have  moved  forward  in  the  path  of  holiness,  in  the 
path  of  perfection,  and  which  enables  us  this  day  to  stand  in  the  knowledge 
and  power  of  God,  and  in  the  intelligence  of  heaven,  just  in  proportion  as  we 
have  observed  the  spirit  of  those  covenants  which  we  made  at  the  waters  of 
baptism;  and  just  so  far  as  we  have  failed  in  our  faithfulness,  in  our  adherence 
to  our  engagements,  just  so  far  have  we  been  losers  in  this  enterprise  in  which 
we  have  engaged  to  obtain  eternal  life,  to  obtain  wisdom  and  knowledge  and 
divine  intelligence  sufficiently  to  stem  the  tide  of  evils  and  temptations  that 
surround  us.  And  just  so  far  as  we  have  followed  the  suggestions  of  this 
divine  spirit,  have  we  experienced  peace  and  joy  to  our  souls,  we  have  dis- 
comfitted  the  enemy,  we  have  laid  up  unto  ourselves  treasures  that  moth  and 
rust  cannot  destroy,  so  far  have  we  forwarded  ourselves  in  the  path  of  the 
celestial  kingdom;  just  so  far  have  we  secured  ourselves  the^blessings  and 
privileges  that  pertain  to  the  celestial  law.  When  these  things  were  opened 
up  to  our  view — the  principles  of  the  Gospel  and  the  glory  of  the  celestial 
worlds — it  was  then  our  privilege  to  enjoy  its  blessings  to  a  certain  extent,  just 
as  though  we  had  been  translated  into  the  celestial  worlds ;  it  was  our  privi- 
lege to  enjoy  a  certain  amount  of  the  blessings  that  pertain  to  those  laws. 
And  just  so  far  as  we  have  conformed  to  these  laws  that  pertain  to  our  tem- 
poral salvation,  just  so  far  as  we  have  obeyed  the  instructions  given  to  us  in 
regard  to  our  temporal  union,  just  so  far  we  stand  in  prosperity  before  God 
and  before  the  world;  just  so  far  as  we  have  been  induced  to  open  our  hearts 
to  display  the  principles  of  philanthropy  in  the  exercise  of  our  religion,  just 
so  far  do  we  stand  this  day  approved  of  the  Almighty  God;  just  so  far  have 
we  secured  the  implements  or  the  means  to  defend  ourselves  against  the  ap- 
proaching evils;  just  so  far  in  all  our  settlements,  cities,  towns  or  villages,  as 
we  have  observed  these  laws  that  pertain  to  our  temporal  obligations,  just  so 
far  has  prosperity  attended  our  exertions,  and  just  so  far  as  the  spirit  of  union 
prevailed  in  our  midst,  and  we  have  advanced  ourselves  in  these  principles. 
And  just  so  far  as  we  have  ignored  these  things,  just  so  far  do  we  stand  weak 
to-day  before  God  and  before  the  world. 

A  sufficiency  of  information  has  been  placed  before  us  in  the  revelations 
of  former  days,  in  the  revelations  to  us  at  the  present  time  to  guide  us  in  all 
of  our  affairs,  both  spiritual  and  temporal,  to  guide  us  even  to  the  celestial 
kingdom  to  receive  of  the  fulness  of  the  Father.  If,  after  the  expiration  of 
fifty  years,  we  as  a  community  do  not  stand  in  that  high  relationship  to  God 
that  we  could  wish,  the  fault  is  not  in  the  Lord,  it  is  not  for  the  lack  of  infor- 
mation placed  before  us,  but  that  lack  is  in  ourselves;  it  arises  from  our  ignor- 
ance or  neglect,  or  from  a  desire,  peradventure,  to  serve  the  spirit  of  the  world 
instead  of  the  Spirit  of  God. 

It  is  true,  when  we  look  upon  the  temporal  position  that  thousands  and 
tens  of  thousands  occupied  at  the  time  we  received  this  Gospel,  and  when  we 
take  into  consideration  the  spiritual  fetters  by  which  we  were  bound,  and  the 
ignorance  that  attended  us  in  our  spiritual  affairs  at  that  time,  we  certainly 
may  feel  very  thankful  to  the  Lord  for  the  progress  we  have  made  when  com- 
paring our  present  position  with  that  we  sustained  when  we  received  the  Gos- 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


81 


pel;  there  must  arise  in  our  hearts  the  deepest  gratitude  to  the  Almighty  for 
so  far  redeeming  us  spiritually  and  temporally  as  we  find  ourselves  this  day. 
For  the  progress  we  have  made  we  are  indebted  to  the  blessings  of  God  at- 
tending our  diligence  and  faithfulness.  And  we  should  renew  our  covenants 
before  God  and  the  holy  angels,  that  we  will,  God  being  our  helper,  serve  him 
more  faithfully  during  the  ensuing  year  than  we  have  in  the  past,  that  our 
public  and  private  life,  our  actions  and  the  spirit  and  influence  we  wield  may 
be  in  keeping  with  the  motto,  "The  Kingdom  of  God  or  nothing."  I  trust, 
my  brethren,  that  we  may  devote  ourselves  entirely  to  the  service  of  our  God 
in  the  establishing  of  his  Zion  on  the  earth,  zealously  laboring  in  the  interest 
of  truth  and  righteousness  on  the  earth,  until  it  shall  become  a  joy  to  us  to  be 
so  engaged,  that  it  may  become  second  nature  to  us  to  serve  God  and  keep  his 
commandments,  and  to  observe  the  celestial  law,  and  that  we  may  so  enjoy  the 
Holy  Spirit  in  our  hearts  that  we  may  overcome  the  world  and  establish  the 
celestial  law  in  our  minds  and  establish  it  in  our  practice ;  that  we  may  so  un- 
derstand ourselves  and  our  privileges  that  we  may  in  this  life  secure  a  consid- 
erable portion  of  the  blessings  that  pertain  to  the  celestial  law,  and  which  are 
to  be  enjoyed  in  the  celestial  glory.  That  so  far  as  God  gives  us  power  in  the 
earth,  so  far  as  he  gives  us  possessions,  houses  and  lands,  flocks  and  herds, 
that  these  possessions  shall  become  sanctified  by  our  doings  and  actions  and 
the  manner  in  which  we  exercise  o'urselves  in  relation  to  them,  that  they  may 
become  sanctified,  and  that  we  may  show  ourselves  worthy  of  the  priesthood 
we  possess,  in  establishing  God's  work,  in  establishing  his  laws  and  every- 
thing that  pertains  to  the  celestial  glory,  just  so  far  as  God  gives  us  this 
power,  that  we  may  show  to  the  heavens  that  we  are  worthy  of  this  Gospel 
and  this  confidence  that  God  has  placed  in  us,  in  restoring  to  us  the  fulness  of 
the  holy  priesthood. 

And  now  I  will  close  my  remarks  by  bearing  my  testimony  to  the  knowl- 
edge of  God  that  I  have  received  in  relation  to  this  work.  It  is  true.  I  re- 
ceived a  knowledge  of  the  truth  of  this  work  by  a  physical  administration  of 
the  blessings  of  God.  And  when  receiving  the  baptism  of  the  Holy  Ghost  I 
knew  I  was  immersed  in  a  divine  principle  that  filled  my  whole  system  with 
inexpressible  joy ;  and  from  that  day  to  the  present  has  blessing  crowned  my 
labors.  And  when  baptizing  people  and  .administering  the  ordinances  of  this 
holy  priesthood,  God  has  confirmed  those  administrations  by  imparting  the 
Holy  Ghost,  giving  a  knowledge  to  the  individuals  to  whom  I  administered, 
convincing  them  that  the  authority  was  delegated  from  heaven.  And  every 
Elder  who  has  gone  forth  to  preach  this  everlasting  Gospel,  and  acted  in  the 
spirit  of  his  calling,  can  bear  the  same  testimony,  that  through  their  adminis- 
trations in  these  holy  ordinances  the  glory  and  power  of  God  has  been  made 
manifest  in  a  convincing  manner  upon  the  heads  of  those  to  whom  they  have 
administered.  This  is  our  testimony;  this  was  the  testimony  fifty  years  ago 
of  a  certain  individual  who  stood  forth  and  claimed  that  God  had  authorized 
him  to  baptize  people  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  lay  hands  upon  them  for 
the  reception  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  should  impart  unto  them  a  knowledge 
from  the  eternal  worlds  that  he  had  this  authority.  This  person  was  Joseph 
Smith ;  and  he  conferred  this  authority,  which  was  given  unto  him  by  holy 
angels,  upon  others  who  were  sent  forth  to  bear  testimony  to  the  world  that 


82 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


those  who  would  receive  those  holy  ordinances,  should  receive  the  testimony 
from  the  Almighty  that  they  were  thus  authorized  to  so  administer.  And  this 
is  our  testimony;  and  this  is  my  testimony  before  this  people  and  before  the 
world. 

And  may  God  bless  us ;  may  he  pour  out  his  Spirit  upon  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  And  may  we  be  faithful  in  all  of  our  labors,  having  the  motto  indelibly 
stamped  upon  our  hearts,  "The  Kingdom  of  God  or  nothing."  Amen. 

ELDER  WILFORD  WOODRUFF. 

"A  little  one  shall  become  a  thousand,  and  a  small  one  a  strong  nation:  I 
the  Lord  will  hasten  it  in  his  time."  This  is  the  word  of  the  Lord  through 
the  Prophet  Isaiah.  Fifty  years  has  made  this  little  one  not  only  a  thousand, 
but  more  than  one  hundred  thousand,  and  I  do  not  think  it  will  take  half  of 
fifty  years  more  to  make  a  strong  nation:  and  if  it  were  not  for  offending  the 
ears  of  the  Christian  world,  I  would  quote  a  word  or  two  from  the  Prophet 
Daniel,  where  he  says :  "Thou  sawest  till  that  a  stone  was  cut  out  of  the  moun- 
tains without  hands,  which  smote  the  image  upon  his  feet,  that  were  of  iron  and 
clay,  and  break  them  to  pieces.  *  *  And  the  stone  that  smote  the  image 
became  a  great  mountain  and  filled  the  whole  earth.  *  *  *  And  it  shall 
break  in  pieces  and  consume  all  these  kingdoms,  and  it  shall  stand  forever." 
I  know  it  becomes  offensive  sometimes  to  the  Christian  world  to  quote  the 
Bible,  therefore  I  think  I  will  not  quote  much  more  of  it.  But  I  wish  to  say 
this  is  the  destiny  "of  the  kingdom  of  God  which  is  planted  here  in  the  moun- 
tains of  Israel.  But  I  will  take  the  liberty  of  asking  a  question  ;  I  would  ask 
it  of  the  Gentile  world;  I  would  ask  it  of  the  whole  Christian  world  if  I  had 
a  chance  and  an  opportunity,  and  that  is  this:  If  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord, 
and  if  the  God  of  Israel  has  set  up  a  kingdom,  undertaken  to  establish  a  Church 
and  a  Zion,  I  wish  to  ask — can  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  help  it?  Can  they 
hinder  it?  Can  they  stay  the  hand  of  the  Lord?  I  wish  the  world  to  reflect 
upon  these  things.  Or  will  the  unbelief  of  the  world  make  the  truth  of  God 
without  effect?  Judge  ye.  Joseph  Smith,  while  in  Liberty  Jail,  while  in 
chains  and  imprisoned,  prayed  to  the  Lord — you  will  find  it  in  the  latter  part 
of  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  page  383 — he  prayed  to  the  Lord  and 
the  Lord  answered  his  prayer.  He. told  him  a  great  many  things,  among  the 
rest  that  all  things  should  be  revealed  in  the  days  of  the  dispensation  of  the 
fulness  of  times,  according  to  that  which  was  ordained  in  the  midst  of  the 
Council  of  the  Eternal  God  of  all  other  Gods,  before  the  world  was — all  these 
things  should  be  revealed  in  the  latter  days.  Now,  says  the  Lord,  "How  long 
can  rolling  waters  remain  impure?  What  power  shall  stay  the  heavens?  As 
well  might  man  stretch  forth  his  puny  arm  to  stop  the  Missouri  River  in  its 
decreed  course,  or  to  turn  it  up  stream,  as  to  hinder  the  Almighty  from  pour-  • 
ing  down  knowledge  from  heaven  upon  the  heads  of  the  Latter-day  Saints." 
The  powers  of  earth  cannot  stay  the  progress  of  his  Church  and  kingdom,  for 
God  has  decreed  it.  And  I  wish  again  to  say  a  word  or  two  that  is  upon  my 
mind  with  regard  to  my  present  condition.  I  have  read  the  Bible,  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  and  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  a  good  many  times,  and  they 
have  brought  me  to  a  condition  that  I  love  to  trace  these  revelations  like  the 
pyramidal  histories  that  have  written  to  the  world  thatjcomes  to  an  end  pretty 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


S3 


soon.  And  I  am  about  in  the  same  position  as  the  farmer  that  sees  his  har- 
vest ripe  for  the  sickle.  What  must  he  do?  He  must  go  to  work  and  cut  it, 
or  else  it  will  go  back  into  the  ground;  and  that  is  the  way  I  view  the  world 
to-day.  It  is  fifty  years  since  these  revelations  of  God  were  revealed  to 
man.  Is  not  the  world  ripe?  Is  not  the  whole  earth  covered  with  whore- 
dom, murder,  blasphemy  and  abominations  of  every  kind,  until  it  rises  up  in 
the  face  of  high  heaven  and  before  the  Lord?  What  will  be  the  result?  The 
crop  must  be  reaped ;  the  harvest  is  at  the  door,  it  is  ripe.  The  Lord  said 
fifty  years  ago  to  Orson  Pratt  and  others,  "  The  field  is  ready  for  the  har- 
vest. Now,  thrust  in  your  sickle  and  reap,  and  any  man  who  will  may  thrust 
in  his  sickle  and  reap."  If  we  are  not  approaching  a  change,  if  the  judgments 
of  God  are  not  to  be  poured  out  upon  Babylon,  and  if  there  is  not  a  change 
awaiting  Zion,  then  I  am  at  a  loss  concerning  the  fulfilment  of  the  revelations 
of  God ;  I  have  got  about  as  far  as  I  can  go  unless  these  changes  are  at  the 
door.  The  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man  is  near.  The  signs  of  heaven  and 
earth  have  indicated  this  for  many  years;  that  is  about  where  I  am  to-day;  as 
an  Elder  of  Israel,  as  an  Apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  I  can  see  no  road 
before  me  unless  I  am  looking  for  the  judgment  of  God  to  be  poured  out  upon 
the  wicked,  and  the  judgments  will  begin  at  the  House  of  God,  and  it  will  go 
forth  from  them  to  the  world. 

Now,  a  few  words  with  regard  to  what  Brother  Taylor  said.  In  the  first 
place,  these  Apostles  here  are  in  the  same  position  that  Ezekiel  was.  The 
Lord  said  unto  him,  "Son  of  man,  I  have  made  thee  a  watchman  unto  the 
House  of  Israel;  therefore,  hear  the  word  of  my  mouth  and  give  them  warn- 
ing from  me.  When  I  say  unto  the  wicked,  thou  shalt  surely  die ;  and  thou 
gavest  them  not  warning,  nor  speakest  to  warn  the  wicked  from  his  wicked 
way  to  save  his  life;  the  same  wicked  man  shall  die  in  his  iniqity,  but  his 
blood  will  I  require  at  thine  hand.  Yet  if  thou  warn  the  wicked,  and  he  turn 
not  from  his  wickedness,  nor  from  his  wicked  way,  he  shall  die  in  his  iniquity; 
but  thou  hast  delivered  thy  soul."  So  I  say  with  regard  to  the  Apostles  here, 
as  well  as  the  Seventies  and  High  Priests  and  Elders  and  Priests — they  are 
set  here  in  these  latter  days  upon  the  walls  of  Mount  Zion  as  watchmen.  I 
tell  you  we  are  under  a  mighty  responsibility  to  God,  and  I  tell  you  we  cannot 
afford,  as  Apostles,  as  Seventies,  as  Elders,  and  as  High  Priests,  to  sit  still 
and  know  that  sin  reigns  in  our  midst,  and  not  rebuke  it;  we  can  not  do  it,  and 
be  justified  before  the  Lord.  Another  thing,  if  we  as  Apostles,  bearing  the 
holy  priesthood,  use  that  priesthood  for  any  other  purpose  under  heaven  but 
to  build  up  the  Kingdom  of  God,  if  we  do  our  power  will  fall  like  lightning 
from  heaven.  A  good  many  men  have  undertaken  this — men  high  in  the 
priesthood,  even  the  Apostleship— to  build  themselves  up  upon  the  authority 
of  the  priesthood.  And  where  have  they  gone  ?  You  may  say  amen  to  their 
power  and  authority.  They  have  lost  their  Bishopric  and  Apostleship.  Let 
us  reflect  on  these  things.  I  say  the  same  to  myself.  I  say  the  same  to  the 
Apostles,  Seventies  and  High  Priests.  You  cannot  u&e  the  priesthood  for  any 
other  purpose  under  heaven  but  to  build  up  the  kingdom  and  do  the  will  of 
God ;  and  when  you  attempt  to  do  otherwise  your  power  will  be  taken  from  you. 

I  wanted  to  say  so  much,  and  now  I  desire  to  say  another  thing.  It  is  our 
jubilee  year.    I  want  to  give  an  exhortation.    I  have  heard  things  during  this 


84 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


Conference  that  have  had  an  effect  upon  my  mind.  I  want  to  say  to  old  and 
young  who  have  been  in  the  habit  of  doing  anything  that  is  not  pleasing  in  the 
sight  of  God,  it  is  time  for  us^to  lay  aside  these  things.  It  is  time  for  us  to 
lay  aside  our  whiskey,  our  tobacco,  our  drunkenness,  and  everything  that  lies 
in  our  path  to  hinder  us  in  our  duty,  or  we  shall  be  under  condemnation.  High 
Priests,  and  Elders,  and  Apostles,  or  any  other  man,  cannot  bear  this  priest- 
hood on  the  earth  and  revel  and  drink  with  the  drunken.  You  cannot  do  it,  it 
is  too  late  in  the  day;  if  you  do,  your  power  will  fall  from  you.  I  felt  yester- 
day, while  Brother  Taylor  was  rebuking  these  things,  to  say,  Amen.  I  know 
that  Brother  Taylor,  as  leader  of  this  Church  and  Kingdom,  can  no  more  sit 
and  hold  his  peace  while  these  things  are  going  on  in  Israel,  than  he  can  live 
without  breathing.  It  is  time  for  us  te  repent  and  turn  away  from  all  our 
evils.  The  responsibility  of  carrying  forward  this  Kingdom  is  upon  the  shoul- 
ders of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

Now  I  will  say  a  few  words  more,  and  then  I  will  close.  I  have  often 
been  asked  the  question,  what  condition  should  a  man  be  in  in  order  to  receive 
a  recommend  to  go  through  the  Temple  of  the  Lord?  I  will  tell  my  feel- 
ings in  regard  to  this  matter,  and  if  they  are  not  correct,  President  Taylor 
and  others  of  the  Twelve  can  correct  me.  I  believe  it  is  too  late  in  the 
day  to  send  men  to  the  Temple  who  make  a  daily  use  of  whiskey,  or  other 
strong  drinks,  tobacco,  &c,  and  there  perform  the  ordinances  for  their  dead; 
it  is  not  acceptable  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord  God  of  Israel.  If  we  are  going 
to  be  saved,  let  us  build  up  the  Kingdom  of  God,  let  us  be  reasonable  and  live 
according  to  what  we  preach;  let  us  live  our  religion.  I  do  not  believe  that  a 
man  is  fit  to  go  into  the  temples  of  the  Lord  to  administer  these  ordinances 
for  the  living  and  the  dead,  who  will  make  a  practice  of  drinking  strong  drinks. 
What  do  you  drink?  Whiskey?  No;  you  drink  strychnine;  you  drink  tobacco 
and  a  great  deal  of  abysinthe,  "blue  ruin"  and  death;  you  drink  anything 
under  heaven  but  pure  liquor.  It  can  scarcely  be  said  to  exist  in  the  land. 
The  "stuff  that  is  sold  deprives  you  of  your  agency,  and  gives  the  devil  power 
over  you;  it  does  so  with  anybody  who  makes  a  practice  of  using  this  liquor 
and  other  intoxicants.  No  one  who  uses  them  is  fit  to  administer  in  the  ordi- 
nances of  the  House  of  the  Lord.  My  own  faith  is  that  no  one  is  fit  to  ad- 
minister the  sacrament,  baptize  the  children  of  men,  or  administer  in  the 
House  of  God,  unless  he  in  a  measure  keeps  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  The 
Spirit  of  God  will  not  dwell  in  unholy  temples. 

If  we  are  going  to  build  up  the  Kingdom  of  God,  it  is  time  we  commenced 
to  keep  the  commandments  of  God  and  live  by  every  word  that  proceedeth 
from  his  mouth.  Our  responsibility  is  great.  It  is  the  Kingdom  of  God,  it  is 
no  more  nor  less.  It  is  the  Church  of  Christ;  it  is  the  Zion  of  God  that 
every  prophet  who  has  ever  lived  since  the  world  began  has  seen  in  vision  and 
declared  our  future  history.  The  revelations  of  God  in  the  Bible,  Book  of 
Mormon  and  Doctrine  and  Covenants  are  being  fulfilled.  We  are  fulfilling 
them.  And  while  we  are  here  let  us  be  faithful  to  God,  the  Great  Elohim,  the 
God  of  the  Jews  as  well  as  the  Gentiles.  He  looks  to  us  and  to  nobody  else. 
He  looks  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Why?  Because  nobody  else  has  received 
the  fulness  of  the  everlasting  Gospel;  nobody  else  has  taken  hold  to  build  up 
this  kingdom.   My  faith  and  feeling  about  this  matter  is  that  we  were  appointed 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


before  the  world  was,  as  much  as  the  ancient  apostles  were,  to  come  forth  in 
the  flesh  and  take  hold  of  this  Kingdom,  and  we  have  it  to  do,  or  be  damned. 
That  is  our  position  to-day.  The  eyes  of  the  heavenly  hosts  are  over  us ; 
the  eyes  of  God  himself  and  his  son  Jesus  Christ  and  all  those  apostles 
and  prophets  who  have  sealed  their  testimony  with  their  blood  are  watch- 
ing this  people.  They  visit  you,  they  observe  your  works,  for  they  know  very 
well  that  your  destiny  is  to  build  up  this  Kingdom,  to  build  up  Zion,  sanctify 
it,  sanctify  the  earth  and  prepare  the  world  for  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man. 
The  judgments  of  God  are  at  the  door  of  the  wicked ;  they  cannot  hinder 
them.  The  Lord  will  hold  all  men  and  all  nations  to  an  account  for  the  deeds 
done  in  the  body,  and  as  Isaiah  says  in  speaking  of  Zion,  "The  nation  and 
kingdom  that  will  not  serve  thee  shall  perish ;  yea,  those  nations  shall  be 
utterly  wasted."  These  are  tremendous  sayings.  There  are  hundreds  of 
the  revelations  of  God,  all  of  which  are  going  to  be  fulfilled  upon  the  heads  of 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  in  the  generation  in  which  we  are  living.  Be  pre- 
pared, therefore,  for  that  which  is  to  come.  There  is  a  change  at  your  door. 
There  is  a  change  at  the  door  of  this  generation.  The  Lord  is  watching  over 
you,  and  he  will  sustain  his  work. 

May  God  bless  you.  May  he  bless  the  Apostles,  and  clothe  them  with 
his  power  and  with  the  revelations  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  I  will  say  as  Brother 
Snow  has  said — I  know  this  is  the  Kingdom  of  God.  I  know  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  he  sealed  his  testimony  with  his  blood. 
That  testimony  is  in  force  upon  all  the  world,  and  it  will  cost  this  generation 
just  as  much  to  shed  the  blood  of  the  Lord's  anointed  to-day  as  it  has  cost  the 
Jews  for  shedding  the  blood  of  Jesus  Christ  eighteen  hundred  years  ago.  The 
Jews  have  been  scattered,  they  have  been  under  the  bondage  of  the  Gentiles 
for  all  these  years,  and  they  have  until  recently  been  denied  all  political  rights. 1 
But  the  Lord  is  about  to  restore  them.  This  is  the  Kingdom  of  God.  It  is 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  heavenly  hosts  are  preparing  themselves  to 
help  the  fulfilment  of  the  revelations  that  are  recorded  in  these  records. 

The  Lord  raised  up  President  Young  to  lead  this  Church,  which  he  led 
for  a  generatfon.  He  has  now  passed  behind  the  vail,  where  he  labors  with 
other  Apostles  who  have  furnished  their  testimony  on  the  earth.  The  Lord 
has  raised  up  President  Taylor.  The  spirit  of  wisdom  is  with  him.  The 
Lord  is  blessing  him  and  blessing  his  brethren.  The  Lord  will  stand  by  us 
and  sustain  us  if  we  keep  his  commandments. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  you  and  to  bless  Zion,  that  we  may  have  power  to 
bring  these  principles  home  to  our  hearts,  to  comprehend  in  a  measure  the  re- 
sponsibilities resting  upon  us,  for  I  will  say  there  never  was  a  generation  since 
the  creation  in  which  the  responsibility  of  the  Apostles  and  Elders  was  greater 
than  that  in  which  we  live. 

I  am  thankful  that  I  have  lived  to  see  this  day.  I  have  sometimes  said  I 
have  felt  lonesome.  I  look  around  me  and  find  Joseph  and  Hyrum  and  a 
great  share  of  the  Twelve  have  been  taken  away.  They  are  now  in  the  spirit 
world.  We  soon  shall  go  there  too — myself,  Brother  Taylor,  Brother  Pratt  and 
many  of  us  are  getting  grey-headed — we  shall  soon  pass  to  the  other  side  of 
the  vail;  but  let  us  do  our  duty  while  we  are  here,  and  all  the  rest,  old  and 
young,  that  we  may  inherit  eternal  life  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen, 


86 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDEB  OHSON  PRATT. 

I  do  feel  with  all  my  heart  to  thank  the  Lord  our  God  for  the  blessings 
conferred  upon  this  people.  Our  year  of  Jubilee,  if  we  may  so  term  it,  is  past. 
We  entered  upon  it  the  sixth  day  of  April,  1879 — ^ast  Tuesday  was  the  end  of 
it.  We  are  now  living  in  the  fifty-first  year  of  the  organization  of  this  King- 
dom. At  the  close,  or  near  the  close  of  this  first  half  century,  the  Lord  has 
been  very  kind  and  merciful  in  behalf  of  the  poor;  he  has  put  it  into  the  hearts 
of  his  servants  to  administer  liberally  and  bountifully  for  their  good.  It  is  to 
be  hoped  that  the  fiftieth  year  will  not  close  up  those  great  and  good  acts,  on 
the  part  of  the  Church,  as  well  as  on  the  part  of  individuals  in  the  Stakes  of 
Zion,  for  and  in  behalf  of  the  poor:  but  that  the  good  work  may  continue,  and 
that  all  the  poor  and  the  needy  may  be  supplied,  so  far  as  circumstances  will 
permit,  with  the  necessaries  of  life.    So  much  upon  that  subject. 

In  regard  to  the  future,  it  has  been  a  duty  devolving  upon  me,  in  connec- 
tion with  hundreds  of  others,  to  declare  not  only  the  Gospel,  but  to  portray 
before  the  people  future  events.  There  are  great  things  in  the  future,  and  we 
are  sometimes  apt  to  forget  them.  We  have  been  looking,  for  some  time  past, 
for  the  Lord  to  accomplish  and  fulfill  the  times  of  the  Gentiles;  or  the  times 
allotted  to  them,  during  which  the  testimonies  of  his  servants  should  go  forth 
among  them ;  or  in  other  words,  the  times  of  the  warning  of  the  Gentile  na- 
tions, the  gathering  out  of  their  midst,  a  few  here  and  there,  of  the  believing 
Gentiles,  away  from  the  corruptions  of  Great  Babylon,  preparatory  to  the  de- 
structions that  are  to  be  poured  out  without  measure  upon  the  Gentile  nations. 
These  things  have  been  sounded  so  long  in  the  ears  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
that  I  have  sometimes  thought  they  have  become  like  a  pleasing  song,  or  like  a 
dream,  and  that  they  scarcely  realize  that  these  great  events  are  at  hand,  even 
at  the  doors.  But  if  we  can  depend  upon  the  word  of  the  Lord,  if  we  can  de- 
pend upon  the  predictions  recorded  in  the  Scriptures  of  truth — if  we  can  de- 
pend upon  modern  revelation  which  God  has  given — there  is  a  time  of  tribula- 
tion, of  sorrow,  of  great  judgment,  of  great  wrath  and  indignation,  to  come 
upon  the  nations  of  the  earth,  such  as  has  not  been  since  the  foundation  of 
the  world.  And  these  things  are  not  far  off,  but  are  near  at  hand,  and  who,  in 
that  day,  that  has  any  sympathy  in  their  hearts,  any  feelings  of  humanity,  but 
will  mourn  and  sorrow  over  the  calamities  that  will  fall  upon  the  nations.  I 
know  that  these  things  are  true.  I  have  known  these  things  ever  since  the 
autumn  of  1830;  and  I  know  that  God  will  fulfil  his  word,  and  that  the  day  is 
almost  at  our  doors,  when  God  will  pour  out  his  indignation,  without  measure, 
upon  the  nations  of  the  earth;  and  they  will  be  swallowed  up  with  judgments 
and  calamities  of  all  kinds  and  descriptions. 

I  have  sometimes  reflected  upon  a  new  witness  that  the  Lord  seems  to 
have  brought  to  light,  by  the  opening  of  the  Great  Pyramid  of  Egypt.  There 
are  many  things  revealed  by  the  opening  of  that  Pyramid,  nearly  3000  years 
after  it  was  built,  that  are  great  and  marvellous,  so  far  as  I  can  understand 
them.  There  seems  to  be  a  prophetic  spirit  running  through  the  construction 
of  all  that  vast  superstructure,  pointing  forward  to  the  very  end.  Among  the 
great  events  clearly  portrayed  by  that  Pyramid,  was  the  organization  of  this 
Church  on  the  sixth  of  April,  1830.  This  is  expressed  in  the  construction  of  the 
"  Great  Step,"  in  the  Grand  Gallery  of  that  Pyramid.    Time  was  measured 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


87 


in  that  ascending  gallery  by  sacred  cubit  inches.  The  measurement  from  the 
birth  of  Christ  to  the  upper  edge  of  the  "  Step,"  which  terminates  the  ascend- 
ing passage,  was  exactly  1829  cubit  inches,  and  the  fraction  of  another  inch; 
that  is,  a  little  over  the  twenty-sixth  hundredth  part  of  an  inch.  Allowing  one 
year  to  a  cubit  inch,  it  gives  the  sixth  of  April,  1830,  as  the  exact  time,  corres- 
ponding to  the  upper  edge  of  the  "  Grand  Step."  At  this  point  the  Gallery 
ceases  to  ascend,  and  the  passage  becomes  horizontal.  This  points  out  the 
very  period  of  time  when  the  Church  was  organized,  and  the  very  day  and 
month  and  year.  Sixty-one  cubit  inches  are  measured  off,  from  that  point  in  a 
horizontal  direction,  until  you  come  to  the  great  impending  wallr  the  end  of 
the  Gallery.  What  that  means,  I  do  not  pretend  to  know.  It  may  mean  the 
closing  up  of  the  times  of  the  Gentiles.  Sixty-one  years  from  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  Church  brings  us,  according  to  pyramidal  testimony,  to  the  end  of 
something.  Whether  these  pyramidal  symbols  are  divine  or  not,  there  is  one 
thing  that  I  do  know  is  true,  namely,  that  the  generation  in  which  the  fulness 
of  the  Gospel — the  Book  of  Mormon — was  brought  forth,  is  the  generation 
that  will  close  up  the  times  of  the  Gentiles.  That  I  know,  if  I  do  not  know 
much  about  the  Pyramid.  I  know  the  former  by  revelation.  I  know  that  the 
days  of  the  Gentiles  are  but  very  few ;  the  end  of  the  dispensation  to  them  is 
now  drawing  very  near  to  a  close.  God  has  revealed  this  work.  His  arm  was 
made  bare  in  the  restoration  of  this  Church.  His  arm  was  made  bare  in  send- 
ing his  angels  from  heaven  to  restore  the  everlasting  priesthood  and  authority 
to  the  children  of  men.  His  power  was  made  manifest  in  the  organization  of 
the  Kingdom  that  must  stand  forever.  These  things  are  not  a  matter  of  opin- 
ion with  me.  I  know  them  to  be  true.  God  revealed  them  to  me  in  my  youth. 
I  have  known  them  from  that  day  to  this.  And  the  work  of  God  will  prosper, 
will  prevail,  will  accomplish  that  whereunto  it  is  sent,  until  every  nation  under 
heaven  shall  receive  sufficient  warning,  and  then  will  come  the  terrible,  the 
dreadful  downfall  of  Great  Babylon.  Awake,  therefore,  O  ye  inhabitants  of 
Zion!  Awake  to  the  importance  of  your  duties!  Awake  to  the  duties  of  the 
everlasting  priesthood  which  has  been  conferred  upon  you  by  the  servants  of 
the  living  God.  Seek  after  God  with  all  your  hearts,  with  all  your  souls,  and 
with  all  your  might,  mind  and  strength,  that  you  may  be  prepared  for  the 
events  that  are  in  the  future,  not  only  to  be  preserved  when  the  great  desola- 
tions of  Babylon  shall  take  place,  but  also  to  be  partakers  in  all  the  blessings 
ordained  to  be  bestowed  upon  Zion  in  the  latter  days.  Awake  for  the  redemp- 
tion of  Zion  is  very  near,  when  this  people  shall  possess  again  their  inheri- 
tances upon  the  promised  land;  when  this  people  shall  erect  unto  the  Lord  a 
house  and  build  up  that  city  called  Zion,  wherein  the  glory  of  our  God  shall 
be  made  manifest  upon  all  the  inhabitants  that  are  counted  worthy  to  dwell  in 
the  midst  thereof. 

May  God  bless  this  Conference  and  the  Latter-day  Saints  everywhere — 
upon  the  mountains,  in  the  valleys,  and  throughout  the  Territories  where  they 
dwell;  that  the  Spirit  of  the  living  God  may  be  with  us,  with  our  wives,  with 
our  children,  and  with  all  who  desire  to  serve  the  living  God ;  that  the  destroyer 
may  be  rebuked  from  our  midst,  and  that  we  may  rise  up  as  the  children  of 
Zion,  and  do  the  work  which  the  Lord  our  God  requires  at  our  hands.  Amen. 


ss 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER   CHARLES   C.  RICH. 

I  am  thankful  for  the  opportunity  of  making  a  few  remarks  before  the  close 
of  the  Conference.  The  Lord  has  certainly  poured  out  upon  us  a  goodly  de- 
gree of  his  Holy  Spirit,  and  we  have  received  instructions  which,  if  observed 
and  carried  out  in  our  lives,  will  be  of  everlasting  benefit  and  salvation  to  us 
as  Saints  of  the  Most  High  God. 

There  are  certain  things  that  we  are  in  duty  bound  at  all  times,  to  bear  in 
mind  and  never  lose  sight  of,  and  one  of  those  things  is,  the  requirement  of  the 
Lord  that  his  Saints  should  become  one.  This  lesson  has  been  taught  to  us 
from  the  very  beginning  until  now,  and  in  it  is  involved  the  strength  of  this 
people.  It  is  a  lesson  that  should  first  be  taught  and  acted  upon  in  the  family 
of  every  Latter-day  Saint;  and  whenever  difficulties  arise  between  neighbors, 
families,  or  settlements,  the  first  step  to  be  taken  by  all  the  parties  concerned 
should  be  to  amicably  settle  the  same,  and  from  that  time  seek  to  do  better,  to 
be  more  respectful  to  another's  feelings,  and  to  really  become  united  as  Saints 
of  the  Most  High  in  the  bonds  and  the  covenants  of  peace.  Therefore,  my 
beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  take  this  matter  in  hand  and  see  to  it;  see 
to  it  that  we  labor,  every  man  in  his  individual  capacity,  to  become  united,  and 
this,  too,  by  laying  aside  our  faults,  our  follies  and  our  imperfections;  and  as 
far  as  possible  seek  to  build  up  the  Kingdom  of  God  on  the  principles  revealed 
unto  us  from  heaven.  For  most  assuredly  he  will  not  accept  of  us  or  our 
labors  on  any  other  terms  than  those  which  he  himself  has  dictated. 

And,  again,  among  other  things  of  importance  required  of  us,  as  a  com- 
munity, and  which  is  the  work  of  to-day,  is  the  building  of  temples  in  which 
to  receive  certain  blessings  essential  to  our  salvation  and  exaltation  in  his  ce- 
lestial kingdom.  He  has  ordained  from  before  the  foundation  of  our  world, 
and  has  revealed  this  fact  to  us  in  our  day,  that  his  people  can  only  receive 
from  him  certain  blessings  in  certain  places — having  a  special  reference  to 
those  sacred  buildings  we  call  temples ;  and  for  this  reason  are  we  required  to 
perform  this  work.  We  have  been  reminded  that  the  time  of  the  end  draws 
near,  so  near,  indeed,  that  there  is  no  time  to  spare :  and  this  labor  is  required 
of  us  and  will  have  to  be  performed  in  a  proper  time.  The  Lord  said  to  this 
people  at  an  early  day,  that  if  the  Saints  did  not  perform  a  certain  work  by  a 
certain  time — referring  to  to  the  building  of  the  Nauvoo  Temple— that  they 
should  be  rejected,  and  also  their  dead.  Inasmuch  as  we  were  not  rejected, 
and  now  have  time  and  opportunity,  let  us  use  the  time  and  improve  the  oppor- 
tunity to  the  best  advantage  and  of  our  ability  to  perform  the  work  which  he 
requires  of  us,  and  labor  while  it  is  called  to-day.  I  feel  that  we  are  a  blessed 
people,  that  the  Lord  has  poured  out  upon  us  choice  blessings  in  rich  abun- 
dance, and  inasmuch  as  we  prove  ourselves  worthy  to  receive  them  on  the  terms 
which  he  has  proposed,  we  will  find  that  our  Heavenly  Father  is  abundantly 
willing  and  able  to  bestow,  for  surely  there  is  no  good  thing  that  will  then  be 
withheld  from  us.  But  I  have  sometimes  thought,  judging  from  the  actions  of 
some,  that  they  expect  to  realize  the  much  desired  blessing  of  the  future  on 
their  own  terms,  as  it  suits  them;  it  would  seem  that  this  was  the  case  with 
some  of  our  brethren,  who  seemingly  want  to  do  nothing  unless  it  suits  their 
individual  feelings,  overlooking  partially,  if  not  entirely,  the  great  fact,  that 
we  have  enlisted  to  do  nothing  but  the  will  of  our  Father  as  it  is  and  shall  be 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


s9 


.  made  known  to  us  through  the  proper  authority.  Nor  does  it  matter  to  us,  as 
his  faithful  servants,  what  that  will  may  be,  whether  to  build  temples  or  any- 
thing else,  we  should  engage  with  our  whole  heart  in,  the  work  required  of  us. 

The  results  of  the  labors  of  this  people  for  half  a  century  are  before  the 
world,  which,  although  wrought  in  much  weakness,  and  ofttimes  in  poverty 
and  distress,  have  been,  under  the  blessing  of  a  merciful,. a  just  and  allwise 
God,  crowned  with  success;  and  on  this,  the  occasion  of  our  jubilee  year  just 
closed,  I,  in  common  with  my  brethren,  raise  my  heart  and  voice  in  praise  to 
him  who  lives  and  rules  in  the  heavens  above,  and  in  testimony  to  this  being 
his  work,  even  the  work  to  be  developed  in  the  latter  days,  so  often  spoken  of 
in  holy  writ.  And  I  repeat  what  has  been  said  that  the  judgments  are  nigh, 
even  at  the  door,  and  this  work  is  going  to  be  fulfilled.  Let  us  open  our  eyes 
and  ears,  that  we  may  see  and  hear  as  the  wise  virgins,  that  we  may  rightly 
comprehend  the  nature  of  the  work  to  be  performed,  not  in  some  other  genera- 
tion, but  in  the  generation  in  which  we  live. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  the  the  truth  of  what  we  have  heard  in  relation  to 
the  judgments  of  God  that  are  to  come  upon  the  earth,  as  well  as  in  relation  to 
the  truthfulness  of  this  latter-day  work.  This  testimony  was  given  to  me 
many  years  ago,  having  embraced  the  Gospel  as  early  as  the  year  1832,  when 
the  Lord  opened' the  vision  of  my  mind  and  manifested  to  me  that  it  was  of 
him,  and  that  it  was  the  commencement  of  that  work  which  should  eventually 
"fill  the  whole  earth."  I  know  this  to  be  true  to-day,  and  have  known  it  and 
testified,  whenever  opportunity  afforded,  to  its  truthfulness  ever  since  that 
early  day:  and  I  bear  testimony  of  it  this  day  before  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  to  all  the  world,  that  this  is  verily  the  work  of  God,  and  that  he 
will  fulfil  the  words  that  have  been  spoken  to  us  his  Saints  concerning  all 
things  coming  on  the  earth.  And  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  I  would  say,  inas- 
much as  we  treasure  up  in  good  and  honest  hearts  the  principles  and  words  of 
life  which  God  has  revealed,  and  live  in  * consonance  with  them,  we  have 
nothing  to  fear;  on  the  contrary,  the  faithful  will  rejoice,  not  in  the  downfall 
of  the  disobedient  and  wicked,  but  in  the  realization  of  the  promised  blessings 
in  which  they  will  rejoice,  both  in  time  and  eternity. 

Then,  my  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  awaken  to  the  warnings  we 
hear  from  tune  to  time,  and  especially  cherish  the  Spirit,  and  ponder  over  and 
improve  upon  the  instructions  of  this  Conference,  for  they  are  true  and  faith- 
ful, and  to  this  you,  as  well  as  I,  can  testify.  And  when  we  go  to  our  homes 
let  us  carry  with  us  and  impart  the  spirit  of  this  Conference  to  our  brethren 
and  sisters  of  the  several  Stakes  who  have  not  been  present,  that  they  also 
may  take  warning  and  square  their  lives  according  to  the  principles  of  the 
everlasting  Gospel,  laying  aside  everything  that  is  wrong,  and  doing  that 
which  is  right  in  all  things  pertaining  to  our  religion,  as  Saints  of  the  Most 
High  God.  And  that  we  may  pursue  that  course  which  will  guarantee  unto 
us  all  the  blessings  of  the  new  and  everlasting  Covenant,  is  my  prayer,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  ERASTUS  SNOW. 

St.  Paul  once  said,  "If  in  this  life  only  we  have  hope  in  Christ,  we  are  of 
all  men  most  miserable."    He  said  this  to  the  ancient  Saints  in  reference  to 


go 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  spirit  of  hatred  and  persecution  raging  in  the  world  against  the  Apostles 
and  their  followers.  I  have  sometimes  thought,  when  we  hear  and  read  of  the 
vituperation  and  lies  abroad  in  the  earth  concerning  this  people,  when  we  see 
how  they  are  misrepresented  and  slandered,  it  would  seem  as  if  the  flood  gates 
of  hell  were  opened  to  swallow  them  up,  and  we  might  at  times  almost  despair 
were  it  not  for  the  assurance  that  we  feel  that  God  is  with  us,  that  the  Lord  of 
Hosts  is  our  God,  and  he  has  led  us  until  the  present  time,  and  we  are  en- 
couraged to  continue  our  efforts  and  labors  with  the  feeling  and  assurance  that 
he  has  not  departed  from  us,  that  he  has  not  cast  us  off,  notwithstanding  our 
follies  and  the  many  evils  in  our  midst,  and  notwithstanding  that  the  servants 
of  God  are  called  upon  to  speak  by  way  of  reproof  and  ofttimes  to  rebuke 
with  sharpness.  God  has  spoken  by  one  of  the  ancient  prophets  in  this  wise: 
" Faithful  are  the  wounds  of  a  friend;  but  the  kisses  of  an  enemy  are  deceit- 
ful." The  word  of  the  Lord,  though  it  be  sharp  like  a  two-edged  sword,  has 
salvation  in  it.  It  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  to  all  them  that  believe, 
and  by  the  sharpness  of  the  word  of  God  are  we  brought  to  comprehend  our- 
selves, to  see  ourselves  as  God  sees  us,  and  to  purge  evil  from  our  midst. 
And  it  becomes  us  to  lay  to  heart  the  word  spoken,  and  it  should  begin  with 
the  Apostles,  Presidents  of  Stakes,  Bishops,  the  Presidents  of  Quorums,  and 
heads  of  families  and  run  through  all  the  organizations  of  society,  and  the 
spirit  of  repentance,  of  reformation  and  of  purification  should  flow  in  our 
midst,  flow  through  the  people  in  all  our  organizations  until  every  man, 
woman  and  child  shall  feel  that  the  Spirit  of  God  rests  upon  them;  we  should 
put  away  evil,  and  endeavor  to  overcome  the  world,  to  withstand  the  influences 
of  the  hosts  of  hell,  to  resist  the  example  of  evil  minded  persons,  to  resist 
temptations  of  pride  and  vanity,  and  cease  to  be  hypocritical;  in  other  words, 
to  be  honest  before  God  and  one  another,  for  his  eye  is  upon  us.  Our  ways 
are  openly  known  unto  him.  I,t  becomes  not  his  people  to  seek  to  hide  their 
ways  from  the  Lord.  Hypocrites*do  this.  Many  of  the  Gentile  Christians  do 
this,  as  did  many  of  the  ancient  Jewish  Pharisees,  for  which  they  were  re- 
buked with  severity  by  the  teachings  of  the  Savior.  None  of  us  need  think 
that  we  shall  be  benefitted  by  covering  up  our  uncleanness  and  expect  that  we 
shall  be  sanctified  by  the  outer  ordinances  of  the  temple  of  our  God,  when 
the  inner  man  is  corrupt.  There  is  power  in  all  the  ordinances  of  God's 
house  to  all  those  whose  hearts  are  clean,  who  accept  the  ordinances  of  God 
in  faith  and  with  purity  of  purpose.  The  Gospel  of  Christ  is  a  savor  of  life 
unto  life  to  all  those  that  receive  it  in  honest  hearts,  while  it  is  a  savor  of  death 
unto  death  to  all  those  that  reject  and  handle  the  truth  in  unrighteousness.  So 
with  all  the  ordinances  pertaining  to  the  priesthood.  They  bring  condemna- 
tion to  the  hypocrite  and  evil  doer,  while  they  bring  sanctification  to  those 
who  are  clean  in  spirit.  And  the  priesthood  which  we  have  received  with  the 
keys  and  ordinances  thereof  can  only  be  received  and  handled  in  connection 
with  the  powers  of  heaven,  and  on  principles  of  truth  and  righteousness.  The 
Lord  has  restored  all  the  keys  of  this  priesthood  unto  Israel  in  the  last  days 
through  his  servant  Joseph  by  the  hands  of  the  ancients  who  held  the  priest- 
hood before  him,  who  bore  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  when  they  were  upon  the 
earth  in  ancient  times;  the  Apostles  Peter,  James  and  John,  and  John  the 
Baptist,  from  whom  he  received  the  priesthood  pertaining  to  the  gospel  of  re- 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


91 


pentance  and  baptism  for  the  remission  of  sins  and  the  promise  that  this 
priesthood  should  not  again  be  taken  from  the  earth  until  the  sons  of  Levi 
should  be  purified  and  all  that  was  promised  Israel  should  be  fulfilled;  and 
however  much  individuals  may  fall  away  from  Zion  and  forfeit  their  blessings, 
however  much  men  may  apostatize  from  the  truth,  and  iniquity  abound,  and 
the  love  of  many  wax  cold,  yet  the  Lord  will  work  in  the  midst  of  his  people, 
turning  and  overturning,  rebuking  and  cleansing,  until  he  has  performed  all 
he  has  promised.  And  when  the  times  of  the  Gentiles  shall  be  fulfilled,  the 
power  of  God  will  be  made  manifest  in  the  redemption  of  the  House  of  Israel. 
As  it  is  written,  "And  so  all  Israel  shall  be  saved.  There  shall  come  out  of 
Zion  the  Deliverer,  and  shall  turn  away  ungodliness  from  Jacob."  Knowing 
this,  the  Apostle  Paul  says  to  the  Romans,  who  were  Gentiles,  "Be  not  high- 
minded,  but  fear:  For  if  God  spared  not  the  natural  branches,  take  heed  lest 
he  also  spare  not  thee.  Behold,  therefore,  the  goodness  and  severity  of  God; 
on  them  which  fell  severity ;  but  toward  thee,  goodness,  if  thou  continue  in 
his  goodness:  otherwise  thou  also  shalt  be  cut  off."  This  is  the  work  which 
God  has  commenced  on  the  earth,  to  fulfil  the  promises  made  to  Abraham 
concerning  his  seed,  and  the  promises  made  to  Joseph  concerning  his  seed, 
the  degenerate  sons  of  America,  among  whom  God  is  working  in  his  own 
marvelous  and  wonderful  manner,  preparing  their  hearts  for  the  changes  that 
await  them  in  accordance  with  his  promises,  when  the  cup  of  iniquity  shall  be 
filled  up  in  the  midst  of  the  Gentiles,  and  his  jndgment  shall  be  poured  out 
upon  them  to  break  them  in  pieces  as  a  potter's  vessel  is  broken. 

We  are  witnesses  of  these  things  and  know  the  things  whereof  we  speak, 
and  we  rejoice  in  the  manifestation  of  the  spirit  bearing  witness  of  these  things 
among  the  people  of  God,  and  though  there  are  many  who  are  negligent  in 
duty,  dark  in  their  understanding,  covetous  in  their  hearts,  worldly  minded 
and  cling  to  this  world  and  are  more  or  less  beset  therewith,  yet  the  Lord  is 
working  in  the  midst  of  his  people;  for  poor,  frail,  feeble,  faulty,  sinful  as  we 
are,  taken  as  a  whole,  we  are  the  best  the  Lord  has  been  able  to  find,  and 
►therefore  he  is  not  disposed  to  cast  us  off,  but  to  reprove,  admonish  and  in- 
struct, that  he  may  make  us  what  he  has  called  us  to  be  in  deed  and  in  truth, 
saints  of  the  last  days. 

May  God  help  us  to  keep  our  covenants,  cleanse  ourselves  from  sin,  our 
hearts  from  all  hypocrisy,  our  persons,  our  habitations,  our  towns  and  our 
cities;  and  may  our  municipal  officers  as  well  as  our  ecclesiastical  officers 
have  wisdom,  strength,  power,  nerve,  and  energy  to  stem  the  current  of  crime, 
to  check  the  progress  of  drunkenness,  whoredom,  profanity,  and  all  manner  of 
abomination,  and  execute  judgment  and  justice  in  the  land  with  firmness, 
vigor,  and  strength ;  and  may  God  bless  every  officer  of  the  law  who  magni- 
fies his  calling  with  soberness,  diligence,  and  honesty,  and  every  Apostle, 
President,  Bishop,  Elder,  Priest,  Teacher  and  Deacon  who  labors  to  put  away 
evil  from  himself,  his  household  and  the  community,  and  every  mother  in 
Israel  who  teaches  her  children  righteousness  and  faith,  and  every  organiza- 
tion for  the  improvement  of  the  rising  generation.  May  grace  and  peace  be 
multiplied  upon  them  through  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


92 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER   FRANKLIN   D.  RICHARDS."! 

Forty-two  years  next  June  I  had  become  convinced  of  the  truth  of  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel  that  had  been  taught  to  me,  at  the  age  of  seventeen 
years;  having  received  the  word  from  the  testimony  of  our  aged  veteran  Joseph 
Young,  sen.,  president  of  the  Seventies,  in  my  native  State,  Massachusetts. 
I  found  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  very  harmonious  to  my  feelings,  although 
very  much  opposed  to  the  views  of  my  friends  and  neighbors.  It  offered  to 
me  the  ancient  blessings  restored,  if  I  would  but  receive  them.  I  considered 
the  matter  carefully  and  prayerfully,  and  ascertained  that  there  was  but  one 
way  of  finding  out  positively  whether  the  Gospel  was  true  or  not,  or  whether 
what  was  taught  to  me  as  the  gospel  was  indeed  such;  and  that  the  whole  sub- 
ject was  made  to  turn  upon  the  saying  of  the  Savior,  "If  any  man  will  do  His 
(the  Father's)  will  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God  or 
whether  I  speak  of  myself."  And  finding  that  there  was  only  one  way  to 
come  to  a  demonstration  of  the  matter  fairly  and  honestly,  I  concluded  that  if 
those  gifts  and  blessings  were  restored  to  the  human  family,  which  were  an- 
ciently given  God's  people  to  enjoy,  I  wanted  to  obtain  them  even  at  the  risk 
of  expatriation  from  my  family,  my  friends  and  associates  upon  rendering  a 
penitent  obedience  to  the  ordinance  of  baptism  for  the  remission  of  my  sins. 
The  Lord  answered  my  prayers,  blessed  me  with  an  outpouring  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  and  gave  me  a  certain  revelation  therewith,  which  made  me  to  know 
that  he  took  cognizance  of  me  personally,  and  that  this  was  none  other  than 
the  great  work  of  God.  From  that  time  I  have  never  seen  the  moment  that  I 
doubted  or  felt  uncertain  or  fearful  concerning  the  progress  of  the  work,  or 
the  ultimate  triumph  of  its  outcome.  I  have  not  only  received  such  testimony, 
but  also  many  of  the  various  manifestations  of  the  Spirit  recorded  in  the  Bible 
and  promised  in  the  revelations  which  mankind  have  a  right,  through  obedi- 
ence and  faithfulness  in  this  mortal  life,  to  enjoy. 

The  gifts  of  prophecy,  of  tongues  and  the  interpretation  of  tongues,  of 
healing  and  being  healed,  and  a  great  variety  that  we  will  not  take  time  to 
enumerate,  even  to  the  casting  out  of  devils.  These  gifts  and  blessings,  signs 
and  mercies,  have  been  bestowed  upon  not  only  myself,  but  upon  my  brethren 
of  the  Council,  the  faithful  Elders,  and  the  Saints  generally.  It  is  no  strange 
thing  among  us  that  any  one  enjoys  these  blessings,  ail  of  them  having  been 
promised  unto  those  who  believe  and  obey  the  Gospel  message.  It  is  only  to 
be  wondered  at  that  more  of  us  do  not  get  nearer  to  God  and  realize  more  of 
them  than  we  do;  it  is  the  only  or  greatest  regret  that  I  have  to-day  that  any 
unfaithfulness  on  my  part  in  the  performance  of  my  duties  should  hinder  me 
from  participating  more  fully  in  the  enjoyment  of  God's  favors,  and  advancing 
more  rapidly  in  the  knowledge  of  himself  and  of  his  ways. 

A  man  in  this  Church,  who  is  an  Elder  in  Israel,  must  have  a  degree  of 
heroism  if  he  is  determined  to  be  a  servant  of  God,  he  must  know  what  it  is 
to  be  able  to  stand  up  in  the  spirit  and  power  of  his  calling  under  all  circum- 
stances. God  requires  him  to  live  and  serve  him  with  all  his  heart,  with  all 
his  mind,  might  and  strength ;  and  to  give  himself  wholly  unto  the  work  to 
which  he  has  been  called,  and  to  have  no  other  business,  on  hand  except  those 
things  which  are  subservient  to  the  interests  of  his  Church  and  Kingdom.  I 
want  to  say  to  the  brethren,  that  we  as  Elders  in  Israel  have  come  not  only  to 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


93 


prophecy  but  to  revelation;  I  testify  to  you  that  while  you  are  sustaining  the 
Twelve  Apostles  as  such — as  the  presiding  quorum,  and  as  prophets,  seers 
and  revelators  in  the  Church  of  Christ,  that  your  faith  and  prayers  are  not  in 
vain,  that  God  is  answering  them,  that  he  is  fulfilling  them  in  your  brethren  of 
that  quorum,  and  you  will  see  from  time  to  time  more  abundantly  the  fruits, 
blessings  and  powers  resulting  therefrom  in  a  greatly  increased  degree. 
Therefore,  continue  your  union,  your  faith,  and  prayers,  and  God  will  multiply 
his  blessings  still  more  abundantly  upon  us  all.  There  is  more  union  among 
the  brethren  of  the  Council,  there  is  more  love  and  fellowship  existing  among 
them,  they  are  increasing  in  those  graces  and  qualities  which  made  the  bonds 
of  brotherhood  strong  and  powerful  to  resist  successfully  the  encroaching 
powers  of  darkness,  and  to  become  strong  in  the  name  of  our  God — to  ac- 
complish all  the  work  required  at  our  hands.  Those  graces  we  see  most 
abundantly  shining  forth  in  the  ministration  and  counsel  of  President  John 
Taylor  who  is  our  leader. 

I  want  to  say,  for  the  benefit  of  strangers  present,  that  this  work  in  which 
we  are  engaged,  is  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times,  in  which  God 
has  promised  to  gather  together  in  one  all  things  in  Christ,  be  they  things  of 
heaven  or  things  of  earth,  or,  he  might  have  said  all  persons  and  things,  for 
that  is  the  fact.  All  Christendom  has  become  permeated  with  the  belief  that 
the  second  advent  of  the  Savior  is  approaching  and  not  very  far  off,  so,  also, 
the  spirit  of  gathering  has  commenced,  and  if  you  will  have  your  eyes  open 
and  watch  the  signs  of  the  times,  you  will  see  that  the  spirit  of  the  gathering 
is  becoming  more  and  more  widespread,  and  is  reaching  Israel  in  all  their 
abidings;  they  are  becoming  interested  in  and  waked  up  to  the  importance  of 
their  gathering  together.  It  is  not  only  an  item  of  news  that  the  Israelites 
have  got  hold  of  the  land  of  Canaan,  but  it  is  a  commencement  of  the  work 
that  will  gather  the  house  of  Judah  and  restore  their  land  to  fruitfulness — a 
land  which  will  become  glorious ;  and  the  House  of  the  Lord  which  is  to  be 
built  there  is  to  be  far  more  glorious  than  the  former  one.  • 

Not  only  that,  but  the  heavenly  tocsin  is  sounding  to  the  Ten  Tribes,  and 
they  are  preparing  themselves  to  come  forth  and  make  manifest  the  power  of 
God  and  be  established  with  his  people  upon  the  land  of  Zion  promised. 
And  if  any  of  you  doubt  it,  enquire  among  the  Indians  of  our  land  and  you 
will  find  that  they  are  having  dreams  and  visions  from  above,  and  are  beginning 
to  enquire  after  the  word  of  God,  and  to  wonder  whether  they  are  cast  off  and 
forsaken,  and  to  be  crowded  quite  into  the  sea,  or  whether  the  promises  made 
to  their  race  by  their  ancient  prophets  and  patriarchs  shall  be  fulfilled  as  re- 
corded in  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

The  Lord  has  commenced  his  work  and  it  has  taken  a  firm  footing  in  the 
earth,  and  he  has  assured  us  that  he  will  carry  it  on;  and  although  we  are 
frowned  upon  by  forty  millions  of  people  who  tell  us  that  we  cannot  live  and 
exercise  ourselves  in  all  the  ordinances  and  institutions  of  Christ's  Church  in 
this  land;  let  me  tell  you  there  are  a  hundred  times  forty  millions  in  yonder 
heavens  who  are  watching  over  and  urging  us  to  perform  the  heavenly  re- 
quirements made  to  us  from  on  high.  Which  do  you  think  we  shall  give  heed 
to?  One  of  ancient  times,  when  he  thought  that  appearances  were  rather 
threatening,  began  to  manifest  considerable  concern.     And  the  prophet 


94 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


Elisha,  seeing  the  timidity  of  the  young  man,  prayed  unto  the  Lord  to  open 
his  eyes.  Whereupon,  we  are  told,  that  he  saw  the  mountain  on  which  he 
stood  was  filled  with  horses  and  chariots  of  fire  encircling  the  prophet  round 
about,  demonstrating  to  his  entire  satisfaction  the  words  of  his  master  which 
were  uttered  just  previously,  namely,  that  "they  that  be  with  us  are  more  than 
they  that  be  with  them,"  the  forty  millions  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding. 
Hence  then,  whom  shall  we  obey?  My  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  obey  and 
serve  the  Most  High  God,  hearken  to  his  counsels  and  keep  the  command- 
ments which  he  has  given  unto  us,  even  every  word  that  proceeds  from  his 
mouth,  including  the  "word  of  wisdom"  which  he  in  his  goodness  has  made 
known  to  us,  for  anything  that  is  worthy  for  him  to  give  unto  us  is  worthy  for 
us  to  keep  in  the  most  sacred  manner. 

Now  let  me  say  to  the  poor — for  this  conference  has  been  fraught  with 
blessing  unto  them — you  who  shall  be  forgiven  your  back  indebtedness  upon 
tithing,  commence  anew  to  tithe  yourselves ;  be  men  of  God,  take  hold  of  that 
duty  and  henceforth  live  determined  to  honor  it  with  other  requirements  in  the 
Church.  The  Savior  anciently  said,  in  speaking  to  the  Jews,  "If  ye  were  the 
children  of  Abraham,  you  would  do  the  works  of  Abraham."  One  of  the 
most  prominent  features  of  father  Abraham's  life  was  to  leave  his  native  land, 
and  go  to  a  land  which  he  knew  not  of,  but  which  the  Lord  should  show  him. 
And  having  done  this,  there  was  a  time  when  he  was  met  by  the  minister  of 
God,  Melchisedek,  when  he  was  on  his  return  from  a  triumphant  victory  over 
certain  kings,  on  which  occasion  Melchisedek  congratulated  him  on  his  suc- 
cess, when  he,  as  if  to  reciprocate  this  minister's  kindness,  "gave  him  tithes 
of  all,"  which  law  of  tithing,  if  you  please,  he  handed  down  to  his  generations 
after  him.  Let  us  regard  it  in  like  manner,  for  it  is  a  standing  law  unto  us  up- 
on this  land.  And  if  we  do  not  live  it  and  carry  it  out,  with  all  other  require- 
ments, this,  we  are  told,  shall  not  be  a  land  of  Zion  unto  us. 

And  unto  the  brethren  who  shall  be  released  from  their  P.  E.  Fund  in- 
debtedness, I  would  say,  lift  up  your  hearts  and  be  glad,  take  fresh  courage 
when  you  are  released  from  that  obligation,  and  endeavor  to  make  yourselves 
more  useful.  Strengthen  yourselves  in  the  the  name  of  the  Lord;  let  the 
weak  say,  I  am  strong;  and  let  all  the  people  know  that  the  Lord  Most  High 
is  our  God,  and  let  us  give  ourselves  wholly  to  his  service. 

Let  the  poor  rejoice  in  the  kindness  and  liberality  of  God  and  their 
brethren  to  them.  Let  the  rich  be  glad  that  God  has  given  unto  them  the 
means  whereby  they  can  bestow  blessings  upon  the  poor. 

God  requires  in  his  mercy  that  they  who  have  an  abundance  shall  impart 
with  a  kindly  regard  for  the  destitute,  or  his  blessing  will  not  rest  upon  them 
and  their  substance. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  by  the  authority  of  the  apostlcship  God  has  be- 
stowed upon  me,  I  feel  to  bless  you  in  all  your  interests,  your  wives  and 
children  and  all  that  pertain  to  you,  your  fields,  your  orchards  and  gardens, 
your  flocks  and  herds;  hoping  and  praying  that  we  may  become  more 
abundantly  devoted  to  him,  and  that  he  may  accept  of  us  and  lead  us  forth 
from  faith  to  faith,  and  from  grace  to  grace  until  the  little  stone  rolls  down 
from  the  mountains  and  fills  the  whole  earth. 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  GONFERENCE. 


95 


May  God  preserve  us  in  the  faith  as  he  has  hitherto  done,  and  help  us  to 
do  his  biddings  so  long  as  we  dwell  in  the  flesh,  through  Christ  our  Lord. 
Amen. 

ELDER   JOSEPH   F.  SMITH. 

I  can  bear  testimony  to  the  discourses  we  have  had  this  morning.  And  I 
can  also  bear  testimony  to  the  great  latter-day  work  in  which  we  are  engaged, 
for  I  know  it  to  be  the  workot  God. 

In  regard  to  the  remarks  of  Brother  Pratt,  respecting  the  judgments  of 
God  that  are  about  to  be  poured  out  upon  the  nations,  if  the  people  will  take 
the  trouble  to  read  the  predictions  of  the  prophets  concerning  them,  especially 
those  referred  to  by  the  angel  Moroni,  when  conversing  with  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  at  the  opening  up  of  this  dispensation,  I  think  they  will  be  thor- 
oughly satisfied  and  convinced,  if  they  have  any  faith  at  all,  that  these  coming 
judgments  are  not  matters  of  mere  speculation  or  supposition,  nor  of  tradition 
handed  down  from  remote  ages,  but  that  they  are  matters  of  fact,  or  will  be 
ere  long,  when  God  shall  consummate  his  designs  against  the  wicked  and  un- 
godly of  the  world.  For  not  only  have  prophets  and  inspired  men  declared  these 
things,  but  they  have  been  declared  by  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  and  by  holy  mes- 
sengers sent  from  the  presence  of  God,  as  well  in  modern  as  in  ancient  times. 

The  Angel  Moroni,  who  visited  Joseph  Smith  on  the  21st  of  September, 
1823,  quoted  the  Scriptures  concerning  these  judgments,  and  declared  that  the 
predictions  of  the  prophets  had  not  yet  been  fulfilled,  but  that  they  would  be 
in  this  dispensation,  and  that  the  beginning  was  now  at  hand,  even  at  the 
door.  Among  these  quotations  I  would  like  to  call  your  attention  to  Malachi, 
second  chapter:  "Behold,  I  send  my  messenger,  and  he  shall  prepare  the  way 
before  me,"  etc.  "Bui  who  may  abide  the  day  of  his  coming?  And  who  shall 
stand  when  he  appeareth  ?  For  he  is  like  a  refiner's  fire,  and  like  fullers'  soap, 
and  he  shall  sit  as  a  refiner  and  purifier  of  silver,"  &c.  "  And  I  will  come 
near  to  you  to  judgment,  and  I  will  be  a  swift  witness  against  the  sorcerers, 
and  against  the  adulterers,  and  against  false  swearers,  and  against  those  that 
oppress  the  hireling  in  his  wages,  the  widow,  and  the  fatherless,  and  that 
turn  aside  the  stranger  from  the  right,  and  fear  not  me,  saith  the  Lord  of  Hosts.'' 

And  again,  Malachi,  4th  chapter — all  of  which  was  quoted  by  Moroni — 
"  For  behold,  the  day  cometh  that  shall  burn  as  an  oven,  and  all  the  proud, 
yea,  and  all  that  do  wickedly,  shall  be  as  stubble,  and  the  day  that  cometh 
shall  burn  them  up,  saith  the  Lord  of  Hosts,  that  it  shall  leave  them  neither 
root  nor  branch."  Again,  Moroni  quoted  the  nth  chapter  of  Isaiah,  in  which 
are  these  words  on  this  subject:  "But  wiih  righteousness  shall  he  judge  the 
poor,  and  reprove  with  equity  for  the  meek  of  the  earth;  and  he  shall  smite 
the  earth  with  the  rod  of  his  mouth,  and  with  the  breath  of  his  lips  shall  he 
slay  the  wicked."  Again,  Acts,  3d  chapter,  22d  and  23d  verses— quoted  by 
Moroni  just  as  they  read  in  the  New  Testament — "  A  prophet  shall  the  Lord 
your  God  raise  up  unto  you.  *  *  Him  shall  ye  hear  in  all  things  whatso- 
ever he  shall  say  unto  you,  and  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  every  soul  which 
will  not  hear  that  prophet  shall  be  destroyed  from  among  the  people."  Now 
this  is  strong  language,  and  to  the  point.  Moroni  declared  that  this  prophet 
was  Christ  at  his  second  coming;  that  this  scripture  was  not  fulfilled,  but  was 


96 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


about  to  be  fulfilled  in  the  literal  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man  to  reign  upon  the 
earth  and  to  execute  judgment  upon  the  world.  Moroni  also  quoted  Joel,  2d 
chapter,  28th  to  the  32d  verses,  declaring  that  this  scripture  was  also  shortly 
to  be  fulfilled:  "And  I  will  show  wonders  in  the  heavens  and  in  the  earth, 
blood,  and  fire,  and  pillars  of  smoke,  &c.  And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  who- 
soever shall  call  on  the  name  of  the  Lord  shall  be  delivered,  for  in  Mount 
Zion  and  in  Jerusalem  shall  be  deliverance,  as  the  Lord  hath  said,  and  in  the 
remnant  whom  the  Lord  shall  call." 

Now,  it  seems  to  me  that  none  of  the  interest  or  importance  of  this  vital 
subject  are  lost  in  the  fact  that  we  are  not  left  to  the  traditions  of  the  fathers 
nor  to  the  written  word  solely,  nor  to  any  uncertain  means  for  the  verification 
of  these  predictions,  but  rather  our  interest  should  be  awakened  from  the  fact 
that  an  angel  from  heaven,  an  actual  messenger  from  the  presence  of  God, 
has  -re-iterated  these  very  predictions  to  man  on  the  earth  in  this  generation. 

Some  of  these  passages  of  scripture  quoted  by  the  angel  were  presumed 
to  have  been  fulfilled  in  the  days  of  the  ancient  apostles.    Thus  the  world  was 
in  ignorance  respecting  them.    All  uncertainty  upon  this  subject  is  now,  how- 
ever, dispelled,  and  the  truth  is  made  plain  to  all.    For  Moroni  declared  to 
Joseph  Smith  that  these  scriptures  had  not  been  fulfilled,  but  that  the  set  time 
had  come  when  they  would  be  fulfilled,  every  whit,  and  the  coming  of  Christ, 
the  execution  of  the  judgements,  and  the  ushering  in  of  the  final  reign  of 
peace  therein  referred  to,  should  be  consummated  in  this  dispensation.  The 
power  of  the  wicked  nations  of  the  earth  will  be  broken.    Thrones  shall  tot- 
ter, and  kingdoms  fall,  while  Zion  shall  arise  and  shine,  and  put  on  her  beau- 
tiful garments,  and  be  clothed  with  power,  wisdom,  majesty  and  dominion  upon 
the  earth.    Babylon  must  fall  to  rise  no  more.    As  a  servant  of  the  Lord  I 
have  received  a  testimony  in  relation  to  these  things,  and  in  connection  with 
my  brethren  I  am  thankful  to  have  the  privilege  of  bearing  that  testimony, 
which  I  do  in  all  solemnity  before  God  and  man,  and  am  willing  and  ready  to 
meet  the  consequences,  If  I  continue  faithful,  at  the  bar  of  final  judgment. 
And  I  further  testify,  that  unless  the  Latter-day  Saints  will  live  their  religion, 
keep  their  covenants  with  God  and  their  brethren,  honor  the  priesthood  which 
they  bear,  and  try  faithfully  to  bring  themselves  into  subjection  to  the  laws  of 
God,  they  will  be  the  first  to  fall  beneath  the  judgments  of  the  Almighty,  for 
his  judgments  will  begin  at  his  own  house.'  Therefore,  those  who  have  made 
a  covenant  with  the  Lord  by  baptism,  and  have  broken  that  covenant,  who 
profess  to  be  saints  and  are  not,  but  are  sinners,  and  covenant-breakers,  and 
partakers  of  the  sins  of  Babylon,  most  assuredly  will  "  receive  of  her 
plagues,"  for  it  is  written  that  the  righteous  will  barely  escape.    This  is  my 
testimony  in  relation  to  these  matters.    We  rely  upon  the  word  of  the  Lord 
in  these  things,  and  not  upon  the  word  of  man,  for  not  only  has  angels,  but 
God  Almighty  has  spoken  from  the  heavens  in  this  our  own  age  of  the  world, 
and  we  know  his  word  is  true. 

That  we  as  a  people  may  be  prepared  not  only  for  the  judgments,  but  for 
the  glory  and  coming  of  our  Lord,  that  we  may  escape  the  calamities  to  be 
poured  out  upon  the  wicked,  and  receive  the  welcome  plaudit  of  the  faithful 
servant,  and  be  counted  worthy  to  stand  in  the  presence  of  the  Lord  in  his 
glorious  kingdom,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


97 


ELDER   ALBERT  CARRINGTON". 

In  several  places  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  you  have  read,  or  can  read,  that 
our  Faither  in  the  heavens,  in  revealing  his  will  concerning  the  inhabitants  of 
North  and  South  America,  made  known  that  inasmuch  as  they  would  keep 
His  commandments  they  should  prosper;  but  inasmuch  as  they  did  not  keep 
his  commandments,  they  should  be  cut  off  from  his  presence.  Do  we  flatter 
ourselves  that  we  are  naturally  better  than  our  brethren  and  sisters,  of  the 
numerous  family  of  Adam,  who  lived  in  the  days  of  the  Jaredites,  or  in  the 
days  of  the  Nephites  ?  They  were  wealthy  and  powerful  nations,  and  when 
they  worked  righteousness,  observing  the  will  of  our  kind,  wise  Father  in  the 
heavens,  they  prospered  exceedingly;  but  as  they  transgressed  the  require- 
ments designated  for  their  welfare,  they  dwindled  to  destruction. 

We,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  are  under  the  same  requirements  as  have  been 
all  previous  occupants  of  this  continent,  to  whom  the  everlasting  Gospel  has 
been  preached,  to  seek  unto,  love  and  serve  the  Lord  our  God,  if  we  would  be 
kindly  regarded  by  Him.  Do  we  natter  ourselves  that  we  will  be  so  regarded 
in  any  other  course?    If  so,  we  are  unwisely  deceiving  ourselves. 

I  rejoice  in  the  great  blessings  we  have  enjoyed  during  this  Conference. 
I  rejoice  in  the  strength,  power  and  truthfulness  of  the  testimonies  we  have 
been  blessed  with.  I  rejoice  in  observing  the  increase  of  that  spirit  of  union 
that  we  must  attain  to,  to  be  indeed  Saints  of  the  Most  High  God.  And  I  feel 
to  add  my  testimony  to  the  testimonies  of  my  brethren,  that  this  great  latter- 
day  work  is  verily  the  work  of  the  true  and  living  God,  and  He  will  carry  it  on 
to  victory  over  all  the  opposition  of  the  powers  of  earth  and  evil.  This  every 
faithful  Latter-day  Saint  knows,  whatever  the  world  may  think  or  imagine  to 
the  contrary;  however  much  they  may  oppose  in  their  blindness,  through  way- 
wardness, stupidity  and  ignorance  in  the  midst  of  their  fancied  intelligence 
and  power.  The  Lord  our  God  is  infinitely  more  powerful  than  the  numbers 
and  powers  of  earth  and  darkness  combined,  and  we  have  only  to  be  careful 
to  be  His  Saints,  and  all  will  be  well  with  us.  We  know  this,  and  I  would 
that  our  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  world  would  wisely  realize  these  facts. 

When  I  look  forward  to  the  near  future,  that  has  been  so  much  spoken  of 
in  this  our  day,  and  so  plainly  prophesied  of  from  the  beginning,  and  contem- 
plate the  terrible  calamities  that  are  to  befall  those  who  reject  the  Gospel  and 
oppose  the  work  of  God,  do  I  feel  in  the  least  to  exult  over  their  downfall?  I 
feel  that  it  will  be  a  day  of  sorrow  and  mourning;  that  it  will  be  painful  even 
to  hear  the  report  of  the  going  forth  of  the  wise  and  just  judgments  of  our 
Father  upon  the  heads  of  the  wicked— those  of  our  fellow-beings  who  have 
preferred  to  do  evil. 

I  take  great  pleasure  in  being  able  to  add  my  testimony  to  the  testimonies 
of  my  brethren  to  the  fact,  which  all  the  world  cannot  truthfully  gainsay,  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a  true  prophet  of  the  true  and  living  God ;  that  he 
died,  as  he  had  lived,  honoring  and  glorifying  our  Father  in  Heaven;  that  he 
laid  the  foundation  of  this  great  work,  in  which  we  are  engaged,  broad  and 
deep,  according  to  the  mind  and  will  of  God,  and  consummated  every  require- 
ment which  devolved  upon  him. 

That  we  may  be  and  continue  faithful,  and  be  saved  with  a  complete  sal- 
vation in  the  Celestial  Kingdom  of  our  God,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen- 


98 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDEE   MOSES  THATCHER. 

Would  it  not  be  well,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  reflect,  after  the  close 
of  this  Conference,  in  reference  to  our  individual  acts  during  our  past  exper- 
ience in  the  Church?  Would  it  not  be  well  to  ask  ourselves  the  question 
whether  we  shall  be  prepared  in  the  future  to  receive  that  measure  which  we 
have  meted  out  to  others ;  whether  we  shall  be  satisfied  with  that  judgment 
with  which  we  have  judged  others;  whether  we  have  followed  the  whisperings 
of  the  Spirit  of  God;  whether  we  have  been  humble,  prayerful,  faithful  and 
true?  It  would  be  well  for  us,  I  think,  to  reflect  upon  these  points,  and 
wherein  we  are  satisfied  we  have  not  lived  up  to  our  privileges,  let  us  as  far  as 
possible  make  amends  and  start  again,  rejoicing  before  the  Almighty. 

I  am  pleased  to  be  able  to  add  my  humble  testimony  to  those  to  which  you 
have  listened  this  morning.  I  know  that  this  is  the  Churah  of  Christ.  I 
know  that  we  have  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators.  I  know  that  every  bless- 
ing which  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  has  promised  is  within  the  reach  of  this  peo- 
ple, if  they  will  live  so  that  they  can  claim  them.  I  can  bear  my  testimony 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God;  that  he  with  his  natural  eyes  saw 
the  face  of  angels;  that  he  heard  the  voice  of  God;  that  he  heard  the  voice  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  and  that  he  received  the  Aaronic  and  Meldhisedec 
priesthood.  I  can  bear  my  testimony  that  he  sealed  his  testimony  with  his 
blood,  and  that  therefore  it  is  in  force  upon  the  whole  world.  His  brother 
Hyrum  died  by  his  side,  and  the  blood  of  our  venerated  and  respected  Presi- 
dent, who  presides  to-day  over  the  quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  was 
mingled  with  their  blood,  and  stands  also  as  a  testimony  before  this  nation  and 
before  this  people.  I  know  that  he  is  led  to-day  by  the  revelations  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  I  can  bear  my  testimony  that  when  you  raise  your 
hands  to  sustain  him  as  a  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  that  God  hears  and 
answers  your  prayers.  There  is  this  spirit  of  revelation  in  the  midst  of  the 
people.  I  know  it  in  every  fibre  of  my  nature,  Iknow  it  in  every  sense  of  my 
being,  and  I  thank  God  that  He  has  given  me  this  testimony.  I  know  also  in 
reference  to  the  judgments  that  are  to  be  poured  out  upon  the  earth.  Enough 
has  been  revealed  to  make  me  feel  sorrowful  and  frequently  like  shedding  bit- 
ter tears.  I  have  no  feeling  of  enmity  against  our  government.  I  have  no 
feeling  of  bitterness  against  a  living  human  being,  wicked  though  many  may 
be,  because  their  sorrows  will  be  more  than  they  can  bear,  and  the  judgments 
of  the  Almighty,  when  they  come  to  be  poured  out,  will  touch  the  hearts  Of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  and  cause  them  to  retire  to  their  closets  and  secret 
places  and  weep  because  of  the  desolation  and  ruin  that  will  be  brought  upon 
this  and  other  nations.  I  can  also  bear  my  testimony  that  the  preaching  of 
righteousness  is  accomplishing  a  great  work  among  the  remnants  of  Israel, 
and  that  the  poor  Indians,  who  have  been  despised  and  hated  through  the  ig- 
norance, bigotry,  and  folly  of  the  wicked,  will  yet  arise  and  stand  forth  in  their 
manhood;  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  will  bring  them  out  of  their  bondage  and  ful- 
fil all  the  words  of  the  prophets  concerning  them,  that  are  recorded  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon. 

May  God  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints.  May  we  march  on  to  perfection,  to 
liberty,  and  to  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  is  my  earnest  prayer,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE.  gg 

PRESIDENT   JOHN  TAYLOR. 

little^  WWk6HP  °n  ^  l0ng6r'  °r  Sha11  We  1uit?    1  think  we  have  a 

little  time.    We  adjourned  the  first  day  of  our  meeting  because  it  was  rather 
cold  and  now  it  is  not  quite  so  cold,  and  we  will  stayt  little  longer.    I  have 
felt  a  desire  to  hear  the  testimony  of  my  brethren  of  the  Twelve,  and  that  of 
our  Counselor  who  is  here.    All  of  the  Twelve  are  present  except  one    he  i 
at  his  post,  attending  to  the  interests  of  Zion.    And  we  will  pray  for  him  that 

tliis  p^l'e6      h  SUStain        PreSerVG  hIm'  -d 

There  are  a  few  things  I  want  to  speak  upon,  and  I  realize  that  while  I 
and  my  brethren  are  speaking,  we  are  not  only  speaking  to  this  congregation, 
but  to  others-to  the  Saints  throughout  this  and  adjoining  Territories -  to  the 

mnf  T\l{  Unit£d  StateS  t0  thG  W°rld^  because  our  teSny  will 
go  forth  to  them.  J 

There  are  many  things  which  I  wish  to  draw  the  attention  of  the  brethren 
to,  that  they  may  not  lose  sight  of  them.  One  is  Co-operation.  We  have  a 
number  of  Co-operative  institutions;  we  have  one  here,  which  may  properly 
be  denominated  the  parent  institution ;  we  have  also  many  others,  and  we  wish 
to  sustain  them,  and  to  do  it  not  nominally,  but  really  in  our  hearts,  and  with 
honesty  of  purpose;  and  do  everything  we  do  on  that  principle,  without  hy- 
pocrisy of  any  kind,  in  truthfulness  before  God,  and  operating  together  for  the 
welfare  of  Israel.  But  Co-operation  is  not  a  system  only  for  importing  goods 
and  selling  them;  we  want  to  co-operate  in  home  manufactures.  We  have 
done  considerable  of  that,  and  we  desire  to  do  more  of  it.  The  Co-operative 
Store  here  has,  I  presume,  as  much  as  two  hundred  men  at  work  in  all— about 
140  to  150  making  shoes,  and  about  50  or  60  making  certain  kinds  of  clothing; 
and  we  want  to  see  these  things  increased,  until  we  can  make  all  our  ovv'n 
clothing  right  here  at  home ;  and  instead  of  having  to  employ  tailors  abroad 
to  make  it  tor  us,  we  want,  as  quickly  as  practicable— and  I  think  it  is  practica- 
ble now— to  make  it  ourselves.  I  mean  the  clothing  which  is  imported  here; 
and  then,  instead  of  employing  comparatively  only  a  few  men,  use  all  of  our 
own  labor;  let  our  factories  be  run  on  double  time  and  use  our  own  wool  at 
home,  instead  of  exporting  it,  and  thus  increase  the  means  of  employment  and 
be  self-sustaining.  And  then  if  we  could  get  some  of  the  best  machinery  for 
the  manufacture  of  hats,  that  would  be  another  commendable  enterprise,  be- 
cause we  use  a  large  number.  I  see  there  are  a  great  many  heads  here,' and 
there  are  a  great  many  more  in  the  Territory,  all  needing  hats— and  if  we  should 
supply  them  ourselves  it  would  be  much  better  than  to  take  the  other  course. 

Then  there  are  some  that  are  trying  to  engage  in  the  United  Order,  up 
and  down  in  different  parts,  especially  far  off  in  the  South.  They  have  our 
blessing  and  our  prayers.  I  say  God  bless  them  in  all  their  attempts  to  ap- 
proach that  order  which  is  instituted  of  God.  We  have  not  got  at  it  yet,  by 
and  by  we  will  come  to  it;  but  in  the  meantime  we  will  approach  it  as  near  as 
we  can.  God  is  pleased  with  the  action  of  this  people  in  their  liberality 
towards  the  poor.  Now  be  liberal  one  towards  another,  and  help  and  relieve 
one  another,  and  God  will  relieve  and  bless  you. 

Speaking  again  of  Co-operation  we  have  what  are  called  Boards  of  Trade, 
and  it  is  expected  that  they  will  operate  and  co-operate  with  our  central  insti- 


IOO 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


tution.  A  meeting  of  that  kind  will  be  held  this  afternoon,  therefore  I  do  not 
wish  at  this  time  to  say  much  upon  that  subject. 

There  is  a  subject  I  wish  to  speak  a  little  upon  to  High  Councils,  to  Bish- 
eps,  to  Bishops'  Counselors  and  to  the  Presidents  of  Stakes  particularly;  but 
as  we  shall  hold  a  priesthood  meeting,  what  I  am  about  to  refer  to  can  be  more 
fully  talked  of  then;  but  I  will  allude  to  it  briefly  here.  Reference  was  made 
by  one  of  the  speakers  to  a  revelation  contained  in  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, in  which  we  are  given  to  understand  that  the  priesthood  is  given  unto 
us,  not  for  our  own  aggrandizement,  nor  to  advance  our  own  interests,  but  to 
build  up  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God  upon  the  earth,  acting  upon  the 
principles  of  justice,  equity  and  righteousness,  as  you  are  yourselves  willing 
to  be  judged — and  will  be  judged,  before  the  Great  I  AM,  when  the  time  comes 
that  we  shall  have  to  give  an  account  of  our  stewardship.  We  want  no  favor- 
itism shown  to  any  man,  or  to  any  woman,  or  to  any  set  of  men,  but  in  the  ad- 
ministration of  justice  to  do  it  as  in  the  sight  of  God,  with  integrity  of  heart 
and  uprightness;  anything  different  from  this  cannot  receive  the  approbation 
of  God.  And  furthermore,  this  priesthood  is  not  conferred  upon  men  to  ex- 
ercise any  degree  of  unrighteousness  or  tyranny,  or  to  in  any  way  oppress  or 
injure  anybody;  but  if  any  man  use  his  priesthood  to  subserve  any  such  pur- 
pose, God  will  take  hold  of  him,  as  the  Priesthood  above  him  will  take  hold 
of  him,  and  he  will  be  removed  out  of  his  place  except  he  repent. 

Another  thing.  'The  Lord  has  given  unto  us  our  various  Courts — Bishops' 
Courts,  High  Councils,  etc.,  and  it  is  expected  that  the  Saints  will  adjust  any 
matters  of  difficulty  or  dispute  that  may  arise  among  them,  before  those  courts, 
and  that  they  do  not  go  to  law  before  the  ungodly;  and  if  any  do  so,  I  will 
promise  them,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  God  of  Israel,  that  they  will  be  de- 
stroyed by  the  ungodly.  Hear  it,  you  Elders  of  Israel,  and  you  Saints  of  lat- 
ter days!  Let  us  seek  in  the  first  place  among  ourselves  to  execute  judgment 
in  righteousness,  and  then  let  every  man  and  every  woman  submit  to  them. 
That  is  God's  law,  and  any  man  that  acts  contrary  to  this  law  cannot  go  into 
the  temples  of  the  Lord  to  receive  the  ordinances  of  God's  house.  For  if  we 
cannot  submit  to  the  law  of  God  on  the  one  hand,  we  cannot  receive  the  bless- 
ings through  his  ordinances,  on  the  other  hand.  Is  that  right?  [The  con- 
gregation answered,  Yes.] 

Again.  I  have  been  very  much  interested  in  our  Sabbath  School  opera- 
tions, and  should  have  been  pleased  to  have  been  present  at  the  general  meet- 
ing of  the  Sunday  School  Union,  last  evening,  but  having  so  much  labor  on 
hand,  I  thought  it  better  to  rest.  But  I  am  interested  in  the  cause  of  our  Sun- 
day Schools,  and  so  are  my  brethren  of  the  Twelve.  God  has  given  unto  us 
the  most  precious  of  gifts— children,  and  has  placed  us  over  them  as  the 
fathers  and  mothers  of  lives.  They  are  eternal  beings,  and  it  should  be  our 
constant  care  to  train  them  up  in  the  fear  of  God.  And  we  want  the  Bishops 
and  the  Presidents  to  sustain  them,  which  I  believe  they  do,  and  all  good 
brethren  and  all  good  sisters  should  take  an  interest  in  the  welfare  of  the  ris- 
ing generation,  and  do  all  they  can  to  train  the  children  in  the  fear  of  God. 
And  God  will  bless  you  in  your  labors  and  desires,  and  the  youth  of  Zion  will 
rise  up  and  call  you  blessed.  And  let  no  man  or  woman  shirk  the  responsi- 
bility of  teaching  the  children  when  it  is  put  upon  him  or  her. 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


IOI 


And  then,  our  Young  Men's  and  Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement 
Associations  are  very  good  institutions,  and  the  Lord  is  blessing  them,  and  he 
will  continue  to  bless  them;  and  we  desire  to  see  them  encouraged  in  their 
operations  throughout  the  land,  that  the  principles  of  righteousness,  truth  and 
purity  may  be  promulgated  and  sustained ;  and  that  vice,  evil,  corruption,  and 
infamy  may  be  frowned  upon,  and  the  right  honored  and  maintained;  and 
that  our  youth  may  grow  up  as  plants  of  renown  and  become  mighty  men 
and  women  in  Israel,  filled  with  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  and  the  power 
of  God. 

Again,  in  regard  to  the  Relief  Societies.  They  are  doing  a  great  deal  of 
good,  and  I  say,  God  bless  the  sisters,  and  let  all  the  congregation  say  Amen. 
[The  vast  congregation  said,  Amen.]  Sisters,  continue  your  labors  of  love, 
and  continue  to  propagate  good,  virtuous  and  holy  principles;  teach  your 
daughters,  and  also  your  sons,  principles  of  holiness  and  purity;  and  seek  out 
the  poor  and  distressed  and  minister  to  them,  and  God  will  bless  you  in  your 
labors.  We  thank  you,  and  I  thank  you  in  behalf  of  the  Twelve,  and  in  be- 
half of  the  people,  for  the  liberal  vote  you  gave  us  yesterday  in  regard  to  sup- 
plying the  poor  and  the  necessitous  with  the  grain  that  you  have  stored — 
something  which  we,  who  profess  to  be  so  much  more  intelligent,  have  not 
been  able  to  do.  God  bless  you;  continue  your  good  works  and  adhere  to  the 
principles  of  right  and  truth,  and  God  will  bless  you,  and  he  will  bless  your 
sons  and  daughters,  and  your  names  will  be  honored  in  Israel,  and  you  will  be 
honored  by  God  and  the  holy  angels. 

Again,  in  regard  to  the  building  of  temples,  we  are  engaged  in  doing  a 
good  work.  Our  Salt  Lake  Temple  is  progressing  very  nicely,  and  we  expect 
it  will  go  forward  as  usual,  only  a  little  more  so,  next  season.  I  would  say  in 
regard  to  this  temple — there  were  some  remarks  made  about  no  reports  having 
been  made.  This  is  true;  the  people  here  have  been  careless  and  indifferent, 
at  the  same  time  a  large  amount  of  means  has  been  used  on  it,  and  why  the 
report  has  been  omitted,  I  do  not  know.  And  the  building  known  as  the  Salt 
Lake  Assembly  Hall  has  been  erected  within  a  short  time,  at  a  cost,  I  suppose, 
of  not  less  than  $100,000;  besides  attending  to  other  things.  I  have  no  com- 
plaint to  make,  only  we  will  try  and  do  a  little  better;  and  when  you  are  called 
upon  to  furnish  quarry  hands,  be  a  little  more  prompt  about  it,  and  do  not  be 
backward ;  and  when  you  are  called  upon  to  furnish  men  to  assist  us  here,  do 
not  be  backward  about  it.  And  we  will  try  and  improve,  one  and  all,  upon  our 
past  labors  in  relation  to  these  things.  In  Logan  and  Manti  we  have  two  tem- 
ples under  construction,  and  when  finished  they  will  be  a  credit  to  the  people. 
We  are  trying  at  least  to  carry  out  the  word  and  will  of  God  in  this  direction, 
and  he  is  helping  us  to  do  it.  We  will  build  our  temples  and  administer  in 
them,  and  stand  forth  as  the  priests  of  the  Most  High  God,  administering  sal- 
vation to  the  living  and  for  the  dead.  And  then,  we  will  continue  to  send 
forth,  as  we  are  doing,  our  missionaries  to  the  nations  of  the  earth.  Although 
they  do  not,  very  frequently,  receive  us  very  kindly,  but  no  matter;  they  did 
not  receive  Jesus,  nor  the  prophets  in  ancient  times,  very  kindly.  The  laws 
of  God,  nor  the  servants  of  God,  never  were  received  very  kindly  upon  the 
earth,  except  for  about  two  hundred  years  upon  this  continent;  but  the  time  is 
coming  when  the  Saints  of  the  Most  High  God  will  take  the  kingdom  and 


102 


FIFTU.TH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


possess  it,  and  reign  for  ever  and  ever;  and  he  whose  right  it  is  will  come 
and  take  the  possession. 

I  will  speak  a  little  in  regard  to  our  government.    We  complain  a  good 
deal  about  the  way  we  have  been  treated.    Well,  we  have  been  treated  very 
scurvily,  it  is  true — everybody  will  admit  that — but  we  must  consider  the  cir- 
cumstances :  they  are  not  of  our  faith,  they  do  not  believe  as  we  do,  they  have 
their  ideas,  and  theories,  and  notions,  and  so  have  other  nations  as  well  as 
this.    Well,  what  shall  we  do?    We  will  do  the  very  best  we  can.    Do  you 
think  you  could  improve  your  condition  in  any  other  nation  or  under  any  other 
government,  or  receive  any  better  treatment  than  you  do  in  this?    I  tell  you 
no,  you  could  not.    We  here,  at  least,  have  the  form  and — I  was  going  to  say, 
the  guarantee  of  liberty;  that  is,  the  promise  of  the  guarantee.    We  have  the 
form,  but  it  is  like  a  religion  without  the  power.    What  shall  we  do  ?  Consign 
everybody  to  damnation  and  destruction?    No.    Who  are  they?    They  are 
God's  children.    Would  he  like  to  see  them  reform?    He  would;  and  he  has 
told  us  to  try  to  do  it.    If  we  had  children  that  had  gone  astray,  would  we  not 
like  to  see  them  reform?    Yes,  we  would,  and  if  our  children  do  anything 
wrong  we  tell  them  of  it,  and  we  try  to  reform  them.    We  will  therefore  con- 
tinue to  go  to  this  nation  as  we  have  done,  as  saviors,  with  the  message  of  life 
and  salvation,  and  we  will  pray  for  the  honest,  the  upright  and  virtuous,  and 
those  who  love  righteousness,  and  those  who  are  willing  to  accord  to  men 
equal  rights,  and  a  great  many  who  are  not;  and  we  will  do  them  all  the  good 
we  can.    We  will  sustain  the  government  in  its  administration,  and  be  true  to 
it,  and  maintain  this  position  right  along.    And  when  division,  strife,  trouble 
and  contention  arise,  we  will  try  to  still  the  troubled  waters,  and  act  in  all 
honesty  as  true  friends  to  the  government;  and  when  war  shall  exist  among 
them,  and  there  is  no  one  found  to  sustain  the  remnants  of  liberty  that  may  be 
left,  the  Elders  of  Israel  will  rally  round  the  standard  of  freedom  and  proclaim 
liberty  to  all  the  world.    These  things  will  assuredly  take  place,  and  when  they 
do  our  motto  will  be  as  it  now  is,  "Peace  on  earth  and  good  will  to  men." 
These  are  our  sentiments  and  feelings  in  relation  to  these  matters.    But  while 
we  feel  liberal,  generous  and  kind  to  all  men  of  all  nations,  classes  and  creeds, 
we  have  no  fellowship  with  unrighteousness ;  we  do  not  believe  in  the  actions 
of  many  men,  nor  in  their  corruptions  and  evils ;  we  want  to  purge  ourselves 
from  them  and  stand  forth  aloof  as  servants  of  God  in  the  midst  of  a  crooked 
and  perverse  generation,  and  try  in  all  fidelity,  in  the  interests  of  our  common 
humanity,  to  bear  off  the  government  of  God  triumphantly. 

I  would  also  say  a  little  about  the  P.  E.  Fund.  While  we  have  relieved  a 
great  many,  to  the  amount  of  $800,000,  of  their  indebtedness,  which  is  right 
before  God  and  all  honorable  men;  there  are  a  great  many  poor  Saints 
among  the  nations  yet.  And  we  want  those  who  are  not  forgiven — for  we 
shall  not  forgive  those  that  are  able  to  pay  and  do  not  do  it — to  come  forward 
and  meet  their  obligations.  And  then,  if  there  are  those  that  are  desirous  of 
assisting  any  in  this  direction,  who  have  it  in  their  hearts  to  do  so,  and  to  im- 
part a  blessing  to  their  friends  in  foreign  lands,  let  them  come  forward  and 
present  their  means  to  Brother  Carrington,  who  is  President  of  the  Perpetual 
Emigration  Fund  Company,  and  he  will  see  that  the  means  are  properly  ap- 
plied.   We  do  not  want  to  close  up  this  avenue  of  relief  to  the  scattered  poor, 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


I03 


but  we  wil}  continue  our  efforts  to  gather  Israel.  And  further;  we  will  con- 
tinue to  build  temples,  and  to  administer  in  them,  and  we  will  also  continue  to 
preach  the  Gospel,  until  the  word  of  the  Lord  be  fulfilled  pertaining  to  this 
and  other  nations,  and  then  he  will  say,  Turn  to  the  Jews,  go  to  the  House  of 
Israel,  the  cup  of  the  Gentiles  is  full.    This  time  has  not  come  yet. 

Now,  in  regard  to  these  matters,  God  is  our  God  in  whom  we  put  our 
trust;  we  have  nothing  ourselves  to  boast  of.  Have  we  wealth ?  Who  gave 
it  to  us?  The  Lord.  Have  we  property?  Who  put  us  in  possession  of  it? 
The  Lord.  Our  horses,  cattle  and  sheep,  our  flocks,  herds  and  possessions, 
are  his  gifts.  The  gold  and  the  silver  and  the  precious  things  of  earth,  and 
also  the  cattle  upon  a  thousand  hills,  are  his,  and  we  are  his,  and  in  his 
hands,  and  all  nations  are  in  his  hands,  and  he  will  do  with  us  and  with  them 
as  seemeth  him  good.  And  as  a  kind,  wise  Father,  he  will  watch  over  their 
interests ;  and  when  the  time  of  judgment  comes,  it  will  not  be  withheld.  We 
ought  always  to  remember  that  our  strength  is  in  God;  we  have  nothing  to 
boast  of  ourselves,  we  have  no  intelligence  that  God  has  not  given  unto  us; 
we  have  nothing  in  life,  or  property,  but  what  has  been  given  unto  us  of  the 
Lord.  Everything  we  possess  pertaining  to  time  and  eternity  has  been  im- 
parted to  us  by  him.  Let  us  then  act  as  Saints  of  God  in  all  humility,  with- 
out rebuke,  in  the  midst  of  a  crooked  and  perverse  generation.  I  say  God 
bless  you,  and  God  bless  my  brethren  of  the  Twelve,  and  God  bless  my  bieth- 
ren  of  the  Seventies,  and  God  bless  my  brethren  of  the  High  Priesthood,  and 
God  bless  the  Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Counselors,  and  God  bless  the 
Bishops  and  their  Counselors,  and  the  Elders,  Priests,  Teachers  and  Deacons, 
our  missionaries  laboring  in  foreign  lands,  and  all  the  Holy  Priesthood,  and 
God  bless  all  the  Saints.  And  let  us  all  seek  to  do  our  duty  and  honor  and 
magnify  our  calling.  Fear  God  and  keep  His  commandments,  and  the  peace 
and  blessing  of  God  will  abide  with  us  from  this  time  henceforth  and  forever. 
And  I  now  testify,  as  my  brethren  have  done,  that  this  is  the  work  of  God 
that  has  been  revealed  by  the  Almighty,  and  I  know  it.  And  God  will  sustain 
Israel,  and  no  power  can  injure  us  if  we  will  do  what  is  right;  and  this  king- 
dom will  roll  on,  and  the  purposes  of  God  will  progress,  and  Zion  will  arise 
and  shine,  and  the  glory  of  God  will  rest  upon  her.  And  we  will  continue  to 
grow  and  increase  until  the  kingdoms  of  this  world  shall  become  the  kingdoms 
of  our  God  and  his  Christ,  and  he  will  reign  for  ever  and  ever.  Amen. 

Elder  L.  John  Nuttall  read  the  following  names  of  missionaries,  who 
were  sustained  by  unanimous  vote: 

Great  Britain. — Robert  R.  Irvine,  Fourth  Ward,  Salt  Lake  City;  Mark 
Beazer,  Kaysville;  John  Cooper,  Fillmore;  William  R.  Webb,  American 
Fork;  Edward  Stevens,  Payson;  John  Kynaston,  East  Bountiful. 

Sandwich  Islands.— Orrin  D.  Allen,  Huntsville. 

United  States. — Peter  Lauritzen,  Moroni;  Erik  Bastel  Ericksen,  Mt. 
Pleasant;  Samuel  G.  Bunnell,  Spring  City;  James  Sanderson,  Fairview;  Wil- 
liam Clark,  Lehi,  and  Nicholas  H.  Groesbeck,  Springville. 

Frank  Warner,  Willard  City,  place  to  be  designated  hereafter. 


104 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


Choir  and  congregation  sang: 

"  Praise  God  from  whom  all  blessings  flow." 
Adjourned  till  October  6,  1880,  at  10  a.  m.,  in  the  same  place. 
Benediction  by  Elder  Wilford  Woodruff. 

George  Goddard.  Clerk. 


PBIESTHOOD  MEETING. 

A  meeting  of  the  Priesthood  was  held  according  to  appointment  in  the 
Assembly  Hall,  Thursday  evening  at  7  o'clock.  It  was  opened  by  singing,  and 
prayer  by  President  Angus  M.  Cannon.  After  which  the  meeting  was  ad- 
dressed by  Elder  George  Teasdale,  who  was  followed  by  Elder  Erastus 
Snow,  in  a  discourse  on  the  authority  of  the  Priesthood  in  its  several  classes 
and  callings.  President  John  Taylor  made  some  closing  remarks,  full  of 
instruction  and  inspiration. 

Elder  L.  John  Nuttall  then  read  the  following  additional  names  of 
Elders  nominated  for  missions:  Charles  Schneitter,  First  Ward,  Salt 
Lake  City,  to  Switzerland  and  Germany;  Jens  Hansen,  of  Mill  Creek,  to 
Scandinavia;  James  Myler,  Clarkston,  to  the  United  States. 

The  doxology  was  sung,  and  meeting  dismissed  with  prayer  by  Elder 
Wilford  Woodruff 


MINUTES 

Of  the  Fourth  Semi- Annual  General  Conference  of  the  Young  Men's  Mutual 
Improvement  Associations,  held  in  the  Salt  Lake  Assembly  Hall,  Tuesday 
Evening,  April  6,  1880. 

On  the  stand  were  President  John  Taylor,  Apostles  W.  Woodruff,  C.  C. 
Rich,  F.  D.  Richards,  Joseph  F.  Smith  and  Moses  Thatcher,  and  Counselor 
D.  H.  Wells. 

The  Presidency  of  the  Salt  Lake  and  Utah  County  Stakes,  Junius  F. 
Wells  and  Milton  H.  Hardy,  and  the  Stake  Superintendents  of  Box  Elder, 
Davis,  Morgan,  Salt  Lake,  Utah  and  Weber  Counties,  and  representatives 
from  Beaver,  Juab,  Sanpete,  St.  George,  Sevier,  Summit,  Tooele  and  Wasatch. 

Meeting  called  to  order  by  Junius  F.  Wells.  After  singing  and  prayer, 
President  John  Taylor  addressed  the  meeting  on  the  subject  of  mutual  im- 
provement, referring  more  particularly  to  the  young  men,  and  explained  the 
suggestions  from  the  Council  of  Apostles  in  relation  to  a  more  complete  and 
permanent  organization.  After  which,  Apostle  Wilford  Woodruff  was  nom- 
inated for  General  Superintendent,  with  Apostles  Joseph  F.  Smith  and  Moses 
1  hatcher  as  his  assistants.    The  nominations  were  carried  unanimously. 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


105 


Superintendent  Woodruff  then  briefly  addressed  the  meeting,  express- 
ing his  interest  in  the  work  of  mutual  improvement  among  the  young,  and 
called  for  the  statistical  report,  the  totals  of  which  were  accordingly  read  as 
follows: — 

Stake  organizations,  20;  associations,  239;  members,  9,206;  average  at- 
tendance, 5,755 ;  quarterly  conferences,  47 ;  weekly  meetings,  2,640;  conjoint 
sessions,  551 ;  extra  meetings,  156;  total  meetings,  3,394;  visitors  sent,  1,326; 
visitors  received,  1,155  >  visits  of  county  and  general  officers,  390;  members  gone 
on  missions,  73;  libraries,  95 ;  volumes  3,554;  value  of  books,  $3,986.45 ;  manu- 
script papers,  274;  financial  exhibit  showed  cash  and  other  property  on  hand, 
$3,794.87;  Scripture  reading,  total  chapters  read,  77,012;  subjective  lectures 
given,  2,904;  testimonies  borne,  3,295. 

After  the  reading  of  the  report,  Superintendent  Woodruff  made  a  few 
remarks,  and  called  for  a  vote  of  the  people  to  sustain  the  suggestions  of  the 
Apostles  in  relation  to  the  organization,  which  was  unanimous.  A  preamble 
and  resolutions  respecting  cruelty  to  animals  and  the  killing  of  birds  were  pre- 
sented and  read,  and  the  sentiments  expressed  therein  voted  upon. 

The  meeting  was  dismissed  by  President  John  Taylor. 


CIRCULAR  FROM  THE  TWELVE  JIPOSTLES. 


Salt  Lake  City,  U.  T.,  April  16th,  1880. 

To  the  Presidents  of  Stakes  and  Bishops  of  the  several  Wards: 

Dear  Brethren: — During  the  annual  Conference  begun  in  this  city  on  the 
6th  inst.j  the  Trustee  in  Trust,  with  the  unanimous  approval  of  the  Apostles 
and  Counselors,  deemed  it  a  fitting  opportunity  on  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of 
the  organization  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  at 
the  close  of  the  Year  of  Jubilee,  to  propose  remitting  some  $800,000,  or  one- 
half  of  the  indebtedness  to  the  Perpetual  Emigrating  Fund  Company,  by  the 
worthy  poor  who  are  struggling  with  adversity,  unable  to  pay,  and  with  but 
little  prospect  of  ever  being  able.  This  very  liberal  proposition  was  cordially 
sustained  by  the  unanimous  vote  of  the  vast  congregation,  composed  of 
authorities  and  members  from  all  regions  of  our  settlements. 

That  these  remissions  may  be  applied  in  the  wisest  manner  possible,  the 
Bishops  of  the  several  wards  are  hereby  respectfully  requested  to  at  once 
proceed  to  learn  who  of  those  indebted  to  the  P.  E.  Fund  Company  they  may 
deem  entitled  to  the  benefit  of  the  aforenamed  remissions,  and  write  down 
names,  ages,  year  of  immigration  and  post  office  address,  with  a  few  of  the 
principal  reasons  why  they  recommend  a  remission,  and  forward  all  such 
recommends  to  their  several  Presidents  of  Stakes. 

The  Presidents  of  Stakes  are  also  respectfully  requested  to  at  once  care- 
fully examine  the  aforesaid  recommends  from  the  Bishops ;  endorse  thereon 
their  approval  or  disapproval,  with  or  without  remarks,  as  the  may  please,  and 
forward  to  the  President  or  clerk  of  the  P.  E.  F.  Co.,  Box  B,  this  city,  for  con- 
sideration and  final  action  by  the  proper  authorities  here,  and  their  action 
thereon  will  be  made  known  to  the  parties  concerned  through  their  bishop  as 
speedily  as  may  be. 

In  case  a  bishop  shall  deem  it  more  proper  to  recommend  remitting  only 
a  part  of  an  indebtedness,  he  will  recommend  accordingly,  as  aforenamed, 
specifying  the  amount. 

DELINQUENT  TITHING  REMITTED. 

At  the  general  Jubilee  Conference,  April,  1880,  President  John  Taylor 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


107 


proposed,  and  the  Conference  voted  that  the  deserving  poor  have  their  delin- 
quent tithing  remitted  throughout  the  whole  Church,  to  the  amount  of  one-half 
the  total  of  all  the  delinquencies;  under  such  regulations  as  shall  be  approved 
by  the  Stake  Presidents  and  the  Apostles.  The  Presidents  of  Stakes  and 
Bishop's  agents  are  therefore  respectfully  requested  to  ascertain  from  the 
books  in  the  several  wards  under  their  jurisdiction  the  amount  of  all  such  de- 
linquencies, and,  at  an  earlyday,  a  list  of  names  and  the  wards  whei'e  found, 
with  the  amounts  recommended  for  remittal,  which  should  include  all  delin- 
quencies of  persons,  generally  well  disposed,  but  who,  by  reason  of  losses, 
affliction,  helpless  families  or  missionary  labors,  have  been  unable  to  pay,  and 
such  amounts  of  other  delinquents  as  may  be  deemed  right  and  proper,  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  spirit  of  the  Conference.  Should  the  total  amounts  so 
recommended  for  remission  amount  to  less  or  more  than  one-half  the  total  de- 
linquency of  your  Stakes  respectively,  it  will  be  adjusted  and  equalized  as  far 
as  practicable,  and  as  shall  be  deemed  to  be  just  by  the  Presiding  Bishop, 
with  the  approval  of  the  Apostles.  The  several  agents  should  consult  with 
bishops,  and  make  up  lists  to  be  submitted  to  the  Stake  Presidency,  which, 
after  such  modifications  as  they  deem  advisable,  should  be  signed  by  them  and 
the  Bishop's  agents  for  the  Stake,  and  forwarded  to  the  Presiding  Bishop  of 
the  Church. 

We  need  not  remind  you  that  neither  favoritism  nor  prejudice  should  in- 
fluence anyone  in  these  matters,  but  only  an  earnest  desire  to  make  the  yoke 
easy  and  the  burden  light. 

DONATION  OF  COWS  AND  SHEEP. 

On  the  suggestion  of  President  John  Taylor  and  his  brethren  of  the 
Council  of  Apostles,  by  common  consent,  as  expressed  by  the  unanimous  vote 
of  the  Saints  in  Conference  assembled,  on  April  7,  1880,  one  thousand  good 
young  milch  cows  and  five  thousand  head  of  healthy  sheep  were  appropriated 
for  the  relief  of  the  deserving  poor  Saints  in  Zion.  Three  hundred  of  the 
former  and  two  thousand  of  the  latter  were  subscribed  by  the  Church,  and  the 
remainder  as  a  donation  by  the  several  Stakes,  as  expressed  by  the  vote  of 
the  Presidencies  of  the  Stakes  and  Bishops  of  the  wards,  who  were  present  at 
the  meeting. 

In  order  that  a  proper  apportionment  may  be  determined,  the  Presidents 
of  the  several  Stakes  are  requested  to  ascertain  and  report  to  the  Trustee  in 
Trust  as  speedily  as  possible  the  number  of  cows  and  sheep  that  will  be  re- 
quired to  relieve  the  worthy  poor  in  their  Stakes. 

A  prompt  report,  giving  the  names  and  residences  in  full  of  such  as  the 
Bishops  recommend,  and  whom  you  can  endorse  as  being  worthy  and  needy, 
will  enable  us  to  determine  at  once,  and  inform  you  of  how  many  head  of  each 
it  will  be  necessary  for  you  to  furnish.  In  securing  subscriptions,  it  would  be 
well  as  far  as  possible  to  make,  at  at  the  same  time,  distributions  as  you  may 
think  proper. 

Being  aware  of  the  object  of  this  charitable  measure,  you  will,  we  feel 
assured,  perceive  the  importance  of  being  thorough,  prompt  and  energetic  in 
its  accomplishment. 


io8 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


THE  LOANING  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  WHEAT. 

To  the  President  of  the  Central  Grain  Committee,  and  Presidents  of  the 
various  Branches  of  the  Relief  Society  in  Salt  Lake  City  and  through- 
out the  Stakes  of  Zion,  having  in  charge  stored  Wheat: 

In  accordance  with  a  unanimous  vote  of  the  sisters  present  at  our  late 
general  Conference,  we  recommend  that  you  loan  to  your  respective  bishops 
so  much  wheat  as  they  may  consider  requisite  to  meet  the  necessities  of  the 
deserving  poor. 

We  also  recommend  that  the  bishops  receipt  to  you  and  take  receipts  from 
those  to  whom  they  distribute,  that  the  wheat  loaned  maybe  faithfully  returned 
when  circumstances  shall  permit. 

We  realize  that  our  sisters  have  performed  a  highly  commendable  and 
praiseworthy  labor  in  storing  wheat  for  future  emergencies,  and  we  trust  that, 
inasmuch  as  the  wheat  is  loaned  without  interest,  the  bishops,  in  carrying  out 
the  above  measures,  will  see  that  they  receive  a  full  equivalent  for  their  loans, 
taking  into  consideration  the  losses  in  changing,  as  well  as  the  difference  be- 
tween old  and  new  wheat  as  to  quality  and  quantity.  The  shrinkage  is  sup- 
posed to  be  about  ten  per  cent.  The  bishops  should  be  responsible  for  the 
return  of  the  wheat,  hence  they  should  loan  on  good  security  and  to  such  per- 
sons as  will  return  the  same  according  to  agreement.  It  should  be  loaned 
mainly  for  seed.  The  Tithing  Office  will  in  no  case  be  responsible  for  the 
return  of  the  whole  or  any  part  thereof. 

THE  FORGIVENESS  OF  DEBTS  TO  THE  WORTHY  POOR  IN  ZION. 

At  our  recent  Annual  Conference,  the  Church,  by  common  consent,  re- 
mitted one-half  of  the  people's  entire  indebtedness  to  the  Perpetual  Emigrating 
Fund  Company,  and  one-half  the  amount  due  on  back  tithing  account,  aggre- 
gating about  $875,900.  This^amount  to  apply  to  the  cancellation  of  the  obli- 
gations of  the  worthy  poor  on  their  emigration  and  tithing  accounts,  thus  free- 
ing them  from  a  burden  which  they  have  been  unable  to  honorably  cast  off. 
To  all  such,  in  this  regard,  we  offer  a  jubilee.  The  power  of  God  moving  the 
hearts  of  the  Saints  still  further,  caused  them  to  appropriate,  for  the  relief  of 
the  deserving  poor  of  Zion,  one  thousand  head  of  cows  and  five  thousand 
head  of  sheep.  In  addition  to  this,  the  Relief  Societies,  with  a  liberal  gen- 
erosity, offer  to  loan  to  the  needy  some  thirty-four  thousand  bushels  of  wheat 
until  after  harvest,  without  interest. 

With  these  worthy  examples,  as  the  fruits  of  the  gospel  before  us,  we  wish 
to  extend  to  all  our  brethren  and  sisters  the  privilege  of  aiding  in  this  good 
work  of  compassion  and  love.  We  respectfully  remind  those  who  have  the 
riches  of  this  world  more  abundantly  bestowed  upon  them,  that  they  have  a 
fitting  opportunity  of  remembering  the  Lord's  poor.  If  you  hold  their  notes 
and  they  are  unable  to  pay,  forgive  the  interest  and  the  principle,  or  so  much 
thereof  as  you  might  desire  them  to  forgive  were  their  and  your  circumstances 
reversed,  thus  doing  unto  others  as  you  would  that  others  should  do  unto  you. 
For  upon  this  hang  the  law  and  the  prophets.  If  you  have  mortgages  upon 
the  homes  of  your  brethren  and  sisters  who  are  poor,  worthy  and  honest,  and 
who  desire  to  pay  you  but  cannot,  free  them  in  whole  or  in  part.    Extend  to 


FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 


IO9 


them  a  jubilee,  if  you  can  consistently.  You  will  have  their  faith,  prayers  and 
confidence,  which  may  be  worth  more  than  money.  We  invite  Zion's  Co-op- 
erative Mercantile  Institution  as  the  parent;  all  other  co-operative  institutions 
as  the  children  and  our  brethren  who  are  engaged  in  profitable  railroad,  banking, 
mercantile,  manufacturing  or  other  remunerative  enterprises,  to  extend  a  help- 
ing hand.  Free  the  worthy  debt-bound  brother  if  you  can.  Let  there  be  no 
rich  among  us  from  whose  tables  fall  only  crumbs  to  feed  a  wounded  Lazarus. 
Rather  let  us  each  and  all  do  our  part  honorably,  justly,  charitably  and  well. 
The  Church  of  Christ  has  given  us  a  worthy  example,  let  us  follow  it,  so  that 
God  may  forgive  our  debts  as  we  forgive  our  debtors.  By  so  doing,  you  will, 
as  Jesus  says,  "Make  unto  yourselves  friends  with  the  mammon  of  unrighteous- 
ness, that  when  ye  fail,  they  may  receive  you  into  everlasting  habitations." 

That  all  these  matters  may  be  carried  promptly  to  a  successful  issue,  we 
advise  the  Presidencies  of  the  several  Stakes  and  the  Bishop's  agents,  to  pro- 
ceed at  once  to  visit  all  the  wards  therein,  holding  meetings  in  order  to  ar- 
range all  these  matters  while  making  their  visits.  By  this  means  they  will 
more  readily  accomplish  what  is  herein  required,  and  have  their  minds  relieved 
of  the  responsibilities  relating  thereto.  Those  needing  wheat  for  seed  must 
of  course  have  it  soon  in  order  that  it  may  be  available  for  that  purpose  this 
season;  while  those  needing  cows  and  sheep  will  appreciate  promptness  in 
their  delivery. 

John  Taylor, 
In  behalf  of  the  Council  of  Apostles. 


TO   ALL   PRESIDENTS   AND  BISHOPS. 

In  addition  to  items  contained  in  our  Circular,  we  call  attention  to  persons 
removed  from  your  wards  leaving  unsettled  tithing  accounts.  All  balances 
against  them  should  be  promptly  forwarded  to  the  bishops  where  they  now 
reside,  if  known,  and  if  their  present  residence  be  unknown  to  you,  send  it  to 
the  Presiding  Bishop,  so  that  such  old  accounts  may  be  considered  and  in- 
cluded in  the  recommendations  of  bishops  for  cancellation.  An  entry  should 
be  made  in  your  books  showing  the  transfer  of  such  old  accounts,  that  they 
may  not  be  longer  reported  among  your  delinquencies. 

In  behalf  of  the  Apostles. 

John  Taylor, 

President. 


HO  FIFTIETH  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE. 

THE  YEAR  OF  JUBILEE. 


{April 

God  of  our  Fathers,  we,  this  day 

Our  voices  raise  in  sacred  song, 
And  in  it  our  glad  homage  pay —  • 

This  tribute  doth  to  thee  belong! 
Thine  hand  has  been  our  staff  and  stay, 
Thy  power  has  lit  our  darkest  day, 
And  Israel,  blind,  this  day  can  see 
The  first  glad  Year  of  Jubilee ! 

In  all  the  past,  Ihy  people,  thou 

Hast  led  with  more  than  Father's  care, 
And  every  trial,  then  or  now, 

From  foes  within  or  foes  elsewhere 
Hath  testimony  brought,  as  rain 
Upon  the  parched  and  desert  plain 
Gives  life  and  gladness,  fresh  and  free, 
A  sure  perennial  jubilee! 

What  more  could'st  thou  for  us  have  done? 

What  blessing  hast  thou  e'er  denied? 
In  eastern  lands  thou  wert  our  sun, 

As  on  Ohio's  praries  wide; 
And  when  Missouri's  hate  was  keen, 
When  from  Far  West  we  fled  unseen 
We  hailed  afar  the  yet  to  be — 
This  blessed  Year  of  Jubilee! 

When  by  the  Mississippi's  stream, 

The  Temple  lifted  high  in  air, 
Beauteous  as  any  poet's  dream, 

"City  of  Joseph,"  wondrous  fair; 
Thou  did'st  thy  people  succor  then 
When  martyred  prophets  fell,  as  when 
From  death  thy  thousands  had  to  flee 
To  wait  this  Year  of  Jubilee! 

Thy  people's  enemies  have  met 

The  fate  which  prophets  did  portray, 

Their  sun  in  darkness  quickly  set 
And  with  it  all  their  jocund  day; 

Nq  more  to  them  thy  Saints  shall  bow, 

No  more  receive  their  ready  blow. 

This  is  our  triumph,  surely  we 

Enjoy  our  Year  of  Jubilee! 


6,  1880.) 

Here,  'mid  the  mountains  peace  hath  dwelt; 

"Rest  for  the  weary"  hath  been  found; 
Here  many  a  bursting  heart  hath  felt 

Far  from  the  hated  war  cry's  sound, 
As  'twere  a  heaven  already  won 
'Neath  the  unclouded  western  sun. 
These  had  no  need  to  wait  for  Thee, 
In  peace  they  had  their  Jubilee! 

Oh  swelling  hearts!  A  cup  run  o'er, 
With  mercies,  blessings,  is  your  lot; 

And  there's  "a  fulness"  yet  in  store, 
In  heaven  the  Saints  are  unforgot. 

Promise  and  prophecy  entwined, 

In  sacred  record  is  enshrined, 

These  every  hour  fulfilled  to  thee, 

O  Israel,  is  a  Jubilee! 

Can  Zion's  children  tell,  to-day, 
The  half  of  what  they  now  enjoy? 

Or  can  a  soul  by  words  portray 
What  fifty  years  more  will  employ 

Of  inspiration's  force  and  flame? 

Or  how  far  lost  a  foes  great  name? 

Or  what  the  world  will  surely  see 

Before  next  Year  of  Jubilee? 

The  Saints  will  live,  the  Kingdom  grow, 
Zion  unveiled  will  "rise  and  shine!" 

Nations  and  tongues  will  homage  pay 
To  Truth,  of  origin  divine. 

And  God  will  bring  to  nought  each  plan 

Of  false,  corrupt,  and  wicked  man. 

Who  would  not  wish  to  live  and  see 

The  next  glad  Year  of  Jubilee? 

"Thy  kingdom  come,  thy  will  be  done," 
Done,  on  the  earth  as  'tis  above. 

Faith  that  'tis  nearer  with  each  sun, 
Inspired  work  is  a  life  of  love. 

Triumph  is  certain,  victory  sure; 

Blessed  are  all  who  will  endure. 

Time  and  eternity  shall  be 

To  them  unending  Jubilee! 

H.  W.  N. 


