sJiKiiiiiiiiiii  iir  urn  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiimNimiiiiiimiiiiiiHiiiiiii  11  iimiiimiimmiimiimiiiiiiiiiii  umiimimi  iiimimimmitmiiiv 

E  = 

NINETY-EIGHTH 

I             SEMI-ANNUAL  1 

|  CONFERENCE  | 

of  the  Charch  of  Jesus  Christ  of 

Latter-day  Saints  ) 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly  Hall 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

October  7,  8  and  9, 1927 

With  a  Full  'Report  of  All 
the  'Discourses 


Published  by  the  | 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

^iiiiliimmiimiiilMimmHiiumiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiim  i  iiiiHiiiiiHiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiMiiiiHiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiHiiiHiiiiiMiiiiiiiin 


JOSEPH  SMITH 

The  Prophet-Teacher 

BY  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

A  new  edition —  in  two  colors — Just  the  thing  for  a  Xmas  Gift. 

Contains 

"Religious  and  Philosophical  Beliefs  of  One  Hundred  Years 

Ago." 

"The  Prophet's  Correction  of  Sectarian  Errors." 
"The  Prophet's  Philosophical  Doctrines" 
And  other  interesting  and  enlightening  ideas. 
Price  $1.50 


Latter-Day  Saint  Hymns 

The  New  Book 

For  our  choirs  and  adult  congregations  is  now  ready. 

It  contains  421  songs  with  music.  Many  of  the  old  favorites  and 
a  lot  of  new  ones. 

You'll  sing  better  and  more  happily  out  of  this  new  book. 

$1.00  Postpaid 
Per  Dozen,  $11.00 
Cash  With  the  Order,  $10.00  per  doz. 

Deseret  Book  Company 

The  Home  of  Worth  While  Books 
44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  P.  O.  BOX  1793 


Ninety-Eighth  Semi-Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


FIRST  DAY 

MORNING  MEETING 

The  Ninety-eighth  semi-annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  opened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah,  on  Friday  morning  at  10  o'clock,  October  7,  1927. 

President  Heber.  J.  Grant  presided. 

A  large  representative  audience  was  in  attendance  from  all  parts 
of  the  Church. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  and 
Charles  ,W.  Nibley. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed  Smoot, 
George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David 
O.  McKay,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,*  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R. 
Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  John  A.  Widtsoe. 

Presiding  Patriarch :    Hyrum  G.  Smith. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy :  B.  H.  Roberts,  J.  Golden  Kimball' 
Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi  Edgar 
Young,  Rey  L.  Pratt. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric:  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A. 
Smith,  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  and  the 
following  assistants:  Andrew  Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A.  William 
Lund.** 

Presidents  of  stakes  with  their  counselors  were  well  represented 
from  the  ninety-nine  stakes  of  Zion,  three  new  stakes  having  been  or- 
ganized in  the  past  six  months. 

The  Priesthood  Quorums,  including  high  priests,  seventies  and 
elders,  and  bishops  and  their  counselors,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church 
were  in  attendance.  There  were  officers  also,  men  and  women,  of  the 


*James  E.  Talmage  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 
**Junius  F.  Wells  absent  in  the  East. 


2 ,  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

auxiliary  organizations  present,  and  members  of  the  Church  Board  of 
Education.  1 

Mission  Presidents  were  present  as  follows:  ,  Henry  H.  Rolapp, 
Eastern  States ;  John  H.  Taylor,  Northern  States ;  Samuel  O.  Bennion, 
Central  States ;  John  M.  Knight,  Western  States  ;  Wm.  R.  Sloan,  North- 
western States;  Chas.  H.  Hart,  Canada;  John  G.  Allred,  Northcentral 
States;  Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern  States;  Rey  L.  Pratt,  Mexico; 
Benjamin  Goddard,  Bureau  of  Information,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O  say,  what  is  truth." 

Elder  John  M.  Holt,  president  of  the  West  Jordan  stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer.  , 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "High  on  the  mountain 
top." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  is  a  source  of  satisfaction  and  pleasure  to  greet  so  many  of  you 
here  this  morning  at  our  semi-annual  conference. 

VISITS  TO  STAKES,  WARDS  AND  MISSIONS 

It  has  fallen  to  my  lot  since  our  last  conference  to  visit  a  number 
of  the  stakes  of  Zion,  to  be  present  at  the  dedication  of  a  number  of 
meeting  houses  in  the  various  wards,  and  to  dedicate  four  chapels  and 
recreation  halls  in  the  missions  of  the  Church. 

I  have  also  had  the  pleasure  of  being  present  at  a  meeting  on  the 
Hill  Cumorah,  which  was  held  in  commemoration  of  the  one  hundredth 
anniversary  of  the  delivery  to  Joseph  Smith  of  the  golden  plates  from 
which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  translated  by  the  inspiration  of  the 
living  God,  and  also  to  attend  a  meeting  in  the  Sacred  Grove  at  Palmyra, 
where  God,  our  heavenly  Father,  and  Jesus  Christ  appeared  to  the  boy 
Joseph  Smith — the  most  remarkable  .and  wonderful  vision  that  we 
have  any  record  of  in  the  Holy  Scriptures. 

I  rejoice  in  the  growth  of  the  Church  and  in  the  general  prosperity 
of  the  people.  There  have  been  quite  a  number  of  changes  in  the  various 
stakes  and  wards  since  our  last  conference. 

STAKE  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

East  Jordan  stake,  Heber  J.  Burgon. 
West  Jordan  stake,  Joseph  M.  Holt. 
Los  Angeles  stake,  Leo  J.  Muir. 
San  Francisco  stake,  W.  Aird  Macdonald. 
Hollywood  stake,  George  W.  McCune. 

The  former  president  of  the  Los  Angeles  stake,  George  W.  McCune, 
is  now  the  president  of  the  new  Hollywood  stake. 

MISSION  PRESIDENT  RELEASED 

Brother  Martin  Christopherson  was  released  as  the  president  of  the 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


Norwegian  mission,  and  since  his  return  home  he  has  passed  to  the 
great  beyond.  Brother  Lorenzo  W.  Anderson  was  appointed  to  succeed 
Brother  Christopherson. 

NEW  WARDS  ORGANIZED 

Osgood  ward,  Idaho  Falls  stake. 
Soldier  Summit  ward,  Kolob  stake. 
Wiltshire  ward,  Hollywood  stake. 
Winslow.  ward,  Snowflake  stake. 

Riverton  ward,  West  Jordan  stake,  divided  into  Riverton  first  and 
Riverton  second  wards. 

Berkeley  ward,  San  Francisco  stake. 
Diamond  ward,  San  Francisco  stake. 
Elmhurst  ward,  San  Francisco  stake. 
Martinez  ward,  San  Francisco  stake. 
Mission  ward,  San  Francisco  stake. 
Oakland  ward,  San  Francisco  stake. 
San  Francisco  ward,  San  Francisco  stake. 
Richmond  ward,  San  Francisco  stake. 
Sunset  ward,  San  Francisco  stake. 
Daly  City  ward,  San  Francisco  stake. 

NEW  STAKES  ORGANIZED 

Los  Angeles  stake  was  divided  into  the  Los  Angeles  and  Hollywood 
stakes. 

Jordan  stake  was  divided  into  East  Jordan  and  West  Jordan  stakes. 
San  Francisco  stake. 

BISHOPS  WHO  HAVE  DIED 

Sylvester  C.  Williams  of  Glenwood  ward,  Alberta  stake. 
Thomas  J.  McCann  of  Turner  ward,  Bannock  stake. 

NUMBER  OF  STAKES,  NINETY-NINE  INCREASE  IN   SIX  MONTHS,  THREE 

We  now  have  930  wards,  an  increase  of  15  in  the  past  six  months. 
We  have  75  independent  branches,  an  increase  of  four  in  the  past  six 
months,  making  a  total  of  wards  and  branches  from  Canada  to  Mexico 
of  1,005. 

We  have  27  missions,  covering  all  parts  of  the  world. 

STATEMENT  BY  THE  U.  S.  ATTORNEY  GENERAL 

I  have  decided  this  morning  to  make  rather  brief  remarks  person- 
ally, and  to  read  from  the  revelations  of  God  to  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
but  before  doing  so  I  want  to  call  attention  to  a  very  remarkable  state- 
ment made  by  the  attorney  general  of  the  United  States.  This  state- 
ment was  made  at  Bedford  Springs,  Penn.,  June  22,  1927 : 

ON  OBSERVANCE  OF  LAW 

"When  intelligent,  educated  men  hold  up  to  ridicule  the  rules  for 
its  conduct  which  society  has  made,  intimate  and  by  innuendo  and  sug- 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


gestion  advise  that  such  rules  ought  to  be  violated ;  ridicule  and  revile 
as  undesirable  members  of  a  community,  men  sworn  to  defend  and  en- 
force its  rules ;  devote  their  intelligence,  wit  and  resources  to  making- 
crime  and  criminals  interesting  and  attractive,  why  is  it  not  expected 
that  the  thoughtless,  the  unfortunate,  the  ignorant,  the  vicious,  will  try 
to  get  rid  of  ,the  oppressors  of  the  criminal  in  any  way,  by  any  means, 
any  violence  that  will  be  most  effective? 

"Because  someone  pays  for  the  doing  of  it,  and  because  the  great 
body  of  law-abiding  citizens  is  complaisant  and  says  nothing  to  show  its 
disapproval,  flippant,  jeering  writers,  publishers,  soap-box  orators, 
cabaret  performers  sow  the  wind;  and  society  reaps  it  in  whirlwinds 
which  blast  and  destroy." 

The  attorney  general,  without  mentioning  prohibition,  asserted 
that  in  buying  any  commodity,  traffic  in  which  is  forbidden  by  law,  the 
purchaser  is  directly  sanctioning  and  rewarding  a  violation  of  the  law 
in  exactly  the  same  manner  as  does  the  receiver  of  stolen  goods,  by 
making  the  transaction  profitable. 

"It  will  not  do,"  he  asserted,  "to  say  in  the  same  breath :  'I  believe 
in  and  demand  enforcement  of  the  laws  of  the  country,  and  I  will  pay 
well  any  man  who  will  violate  these  laws.'  " 

I  regret  that  his  speech  was  not  published  in  full  in  the  dispatches, 
because  it  is  the  speech  of  a  statesman,  the  speech  of  a  man  who  loves 
his  country  and  is  desirous  of  maintaining  and  upholding  the  laws  of 
that  country. 

THE  DOCTRINE  AND  COVENANTS  ON  THE  SUBJECT 

In  the  very  first  revelation  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  we  find 
the  following: 

"Search  these  commandments,  for  they  are  true  and  faithful,  and  the  pro- 
phecies and  promises  which  are  in  them  shall  all  be  fulfilled. 

"Whiat  I  the  Lord  have  spoken,  I  have  spoken,  and  I  excuse  not  myself; 
and  though  the  heavens  and  the  earth  pass  away,  my  word  shall  not  pass  away, 
but  shall  all  be  fulfilled,  whether  by  mine  own  voice  or  by  the  vpice  of  my 
servants,  it  is  the  same." 

We  read  in  one  of  the  revelations : 

"I,  the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do  what  I  say ;  but  when  ye  do  not  what 
I  say,  ye  have  no  promise." 

I  wish  that  I  had  the  ability  to  impress  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints 
the  necessity  of  searching  the  commandments  of  God,  the  revelations 
from  the  Lord,  the  Creator  of  heaven  and  earth,  as  contained  in  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants.  If  we  as  a  people  would  live  up  to  those  won- 
derful revelations  that  have  come  to  us,  we  would  be  a  bright  and 
shining  light  to  all  the  wide  world. 

"Let  no  man  break  the  laws  of  the  land,  for  he  that  keepeth  the  laws  of 
God  hath  no  need  to  break  the  laws  of  the  land. 

"Wherefore,  be  subject  to  the  powers  that  be,  until  he  reigns  whose  right 
it  js  to  reign,  and  subdues  all  enemies  under  his  feet."" 

"According  to  the  laws  and  constitution  of  the  people,  which  I  have  suffered 
to  be  established,  and  should  be  maintained  for  the  rights  and  protection  of  all 
flesh,  according  to  just  and  holy  principles; 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


"That  every  man  may  act  in  doctrine  and  principle  pertaining  to  futurity, 
according  to  the  moral  agency  which  I  have  given  unto  him,  that  every  man  may 
be  accountable  for  his  own  sins  in  the  day  of  judgment.    *    *  * 

"And  for  this  purpose  I  have  established  the  Constitution  of  this  land,  by 
the  hands  of  wise  men  whom  I  raised  up  unto  this  very  purpose,  and  redeemed 
the  land  by  the  shedding  of  blood." 

LOYALTY  TO  THE  CONSTITUTION 

All  Latter-day  Saints  believe  absolutely  that  the  Constitution  of 
our  Country  was  inspired  of  God,  and  that  he  used  wise  men,  noble  men, 
as  instruments  in  his  hands  for  establishing  that  Constitution,  and  when 
any  law  is  enacted  and  becomes  a  constitutional  law,  no  man  who  spends 
his  money  to  help  men  break  that  law  can  truthfully  say  that  he  is  a  loyal 
citizen. 

"And  now,  verily  I  say  unto  you  concerning  the  laws  of  the  land,  it  is  my 
will  that  my  people  should  observe  to  do  all  things  whatsoever  I  command  them. 

"And  that  law  of  the  land  which  is  constitutional,  supporting  that  principle 
of  freedom  in  maintaining  rights  and  privileges,  belongs  to  all  mankind,  and  is 
justifiable  before  me. 

"Therefore,  I,  the  Lord,  justify  you,  and  your  brethren  of  my  church  in 
befriending  that  law  which  is  the  constitutional  law  of  the  land. 

"And  as  pertaining  to  law  of  man,  whatsoever  is  more  or  less  than  this 
cometh  of  evil. 

"I,  the  Lord  God,  make  you  free,  therefore  you  are  free  indeed;  and  the 
law  also  maketh  you  free. 

"Nevertheless,  when  the  wicked  rule  the  people  mourn. 

"Wherefore,  honest  men  and  wise  men  should  be  sought  for  diligently,  and 
good  men  and  wise  men  ye  should  observe  to  uphold ;  otherwise  whatsoever 
is  less  than  these  cometh  of  evil. 

"And  I  give  unto  you  a  commandment,  that  ye  shall  forsake  jail  evil  and 
cleave  unto  all  good,  that  ye  shall  live  by  every  word  which  proceedeth  forth 
out  of  the  mouth  of  God." 

"For  behold,  it  is  not  meet  that  I  should  command  in  all  things ;  for  he  that 
is  compelled  in  all  things,  the  same  is  a  slothful  and  not  a  wise  servant ;  wherefore 
he  receiveth  no  reward. 

"Verily  I  say,  men  should  be  anxiously  engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and  do 
many  things  of  their  own  free  will,  and  bring  to  pass  much  righteousness ; 

"For  the  power  is  in  them,  wherein  they  are  agents  unto  themselves.  And 
inasmuch  as  men  do  good  they  shall  in  nowise  lose  their  reward. 

"But  he  that  doth  not  anything  until  he  is  commanded,  and  receiveth  a 
commandment  with  doubtful  heart,  and  keepeth  it  with  slothfulness,  the  same 
is  damned. 

"Who  am  I  that  made  man,  saith  the  Lord,  that  will  hold  him  guiltless  that 
obeys  not  my  commandments  ? 

"Who  am  I,  saith  the  Lord,  that  have  promised  and  have  not  fulfilled  ?" 

"I  command  and  men  obey  not;  I  revoke  and  they  receive  not  the  blessing. 

"Then  they  say  in  their  hearts :  This  is  not  the  work  of  the  Lord,  for  his 
promises  are  not  fulfilled.  But  woe  unto  such  for  their  reward  lurketh  beneath, 
and  not  from  above." 

Another  statement  in  this  book  is  that  "there  is  a  law,  irrevocably 
decreed  in  heaven  before  the  foundations  of  this  world,  upon  which  all 
blessings  are  predicated: 

"And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that 
law  'upon  which  it  is  predicated." 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


THE  WORD  OF  WISDOM 

"A  Word  of  Wisdom  for  the  benefit  of  the  council  of  high  priests,  as- 
sembled in  Kirtland,  and  the  Church,  and  also  the  Saints  in  Zion. 

"To  be  sent  greeting;  not  by  commandment  or  constraint,  but  by  revelation 
and  the  word  of  wisdom,  showing  forth  the  order  and  will  of  God  in  the  temporal 
salvation  of  all  Saints  in  the  last  days. 

"Given  for  a  principle  with  promise,  adapted  to  the  capacity  of  the  weak  and 
the  weakest  of  all  Saints,  who  are  or  can  be  called  Saints." 

And  every  Latter-dayv  Saint  knows  that  tea,  that  coffee,  that  to- 
hacco,  that  liquor,  are  the  things  that  this  Word  of  Wisdom  says  it  is 
not  pleasing  unto  God  that  we  should  partake  of.  There  are  many  Saints 
who  say:  "Oh,  that  is  not  by  way  of  commandment;"  but  it  is  "the 
order  and  the  will  of  God."  And  what  does  the  Lord  promise  to  you 
and  to  me  and  to  every  Latter-day  Saint  who  observes  this  Word  of 
Wisdom  ? 

"And  all  Saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking  in 
obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel  and  marrow 
to  their  bones ; 

"And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures; 

"And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk  and  not  faint. 
"And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise,  that  the  destroying  angel  shall 
pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them." 

A  CALL  FOR  HELP  TO  DO  RIGHT 

May  God  help  you  and  me  and  every  Latter-day  Saint  to  observe 
the  Word  of  Wisdom,  that  we  may  have  health  and  hidden  treasures  of 
knowledge,  and  that  God  will  allow  us  to  live  here  upon  the  earth  until 
we  have  filled  out  the  measure  of  our  creation ;  and  may  God  help  you 
and  me  to  uphold  the  laws  of  our  land  in  every  way  within  our  power, 
is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer, 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

I  would  be  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if  I  were  able  to 
impress  upon  this  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  upon  those 
who  may  be  present  who  are  not  identified  with  the  Church,  the  vital 
importance  of  that  part  of  the  remarks  just  made  by  the  President  of 
the  Church  which  refers  to  our  obligation  to  magnify,  uphold  and  sustain 
the  civil  law  by  which  we  are  governed  in  our  temporal  affairs. 

UPHOLD  AND  SUSTAIN  THE  CIVIL  LAW 

I  have  made,  while  sitting  here  upon  my  seat  and  listening  to  the 
President,  some  notes  which  I  desire  very  briefly  to  call  to  your  atten- 
tion. To  me  the  establishment  of  the  government  of  the  United  States, 
and  the  development  of  this  nation  of  which  we  are  citizens,  did  not 
come  by  chance,  but  was  a  thing  of  destiny,  just  one  of  the  incidents 
connected  with  the  development  of  the  purposes  of  the  Lord  in  the 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IV1NS 


7 


consummation  of  his  great  plan,  looking  to  the  redemption  of  his 
covenant  people,  coming  in  the  time  in  which  it  was  to  come,  developing, 
as  he  decreed  it  should  develop,  and  accomplishing,  notwithstanding  all 
of  the  weaknesses  and  shortcomings  of  its  people,  the  purposes  for 
which  it  was  intended. 

WE  OCCUPY  SIMILAR  POSITION  TO  ISRAEL  OF  OLD 

It  had  its  inception  more  than  four  thousand  years  ago,  when 
the  Lord  called  Abraham  from  his  home  in  Chaldea,  and  entered  into 
covenant  with  him,  a  covenant  which  was  to  be  everlasting,  that  he 
would  make  of  him  and  his  descendants  a  great  people,  and  that  through 
them  all  of  the  nations  of  the  earth  should  be  blessed.  It  is  a  long 
time  to  go  back  four  thousand  years,  and  the  time  which  is  allotted  to 
me  would  not  justify  an  effort  upon  my  part  to  do  so.  It  is  sufficient 
for  me  to  state  to  you,  and  this  can  be  definitely  and  fully  demonstrated, 
that  the  history  of  the  Israelitish  people  from  that  time  until  the 
present,  brings  us,  step  by  step,  to  the  condition  which  we  occupy 
today.  The  way, is  clearly  marked.  Trie  path  in  which  they  have 
traveled  in  the  past,  as  well  as  the  road  which  will  lead  to  the  consum- 
mation of  this  covenant  which  God  entered  into1  with  them,  are  all 
plainly  outlined  in  the  scriptures  which  we  have  before  us. 

A  GOVERNMENT  DESIGNED  FOR  ALL  MANKIND 

The  coming  of  Columbus  to  this  continent  was  not  a  thing  of 
chance.  It  had  been  foreseen  and  foretold  by  the  prophets  of  God. 
The  coming  of  the  Pilgrim  fathers  to  New  England,  of  the  Dutch  to 
New  York,  and  the  cavaliers  of  the  Old  World  to  Virginia,  was  not 
a  thing  of  chance,  it  was  just  the  chosen  combination  of  men  and  women 
who  were  calculated  to  make  up  the  composite  government  which  was 
established  at  the  time  of  the  adoption  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States.  They  were  prayerful  people,  they  were  people  who  had  faith  in 
God,  they  prayed  to  him  and  their  prayers  were  answered ;  and,  as  stated 
in  the  scripture  which  the  President  has  read,  it  was  under  the  Lord's 
inspiration  that  these  men  were  moved  upon  to  give  us  this  government 
under  which  we  have  so  rapidly  and  wonderfully  developed.  It  was  not 
to  be  a  government  of  Englishmen,  nor  of  Dutchmen,  nor  of  royalty 
represented  in  the  cavaliers,  nor  of  French  people  who  were  in  Louisiana, 
and  to  the  north  of  us,  in  Canada,  but  a  government  designed  for  the 
benefit  of  all  mankind,  a  government  which  was  to  make  all  people 
equal  under  the  law. 

CIVIL  AND   RELIGIOUS  LAWS   ARE  SEPARATE 

The  beginnings  of  it  in  this  dispensation  were  had  when  Martin 
Luther  struck  from  the  people  of  the  Old  World  the  shackles  which 
bound  them  to  a  policy  by  which  the  church  sought  to  dominate  the  state 
and  government  in  civil,  as  well  as  religious  affairs — a  thing  which  the 
Lord  has  told  us  is  not  his  will,  that  we  are  responsible  to  him  for  our 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


faith,  for  the  morality  and  the  righteousness  of  our  lives.  He  has  told 
us  just  as  definitely  that  we  are  responsible  to  the  civil  law,  SO'  far  as 
the  control  of  our  temporal  affairs  is  concerned.  What  could  be  ac- 
complished without  the  proper  administration  of  civil  law  ?  There  would 
be  no  protection  for  society,  the  weak  would  be  subject  to  the  power 
of  the  strong,  to  prevent  all  of  which  fundamental  laws  of  our  country 
have  been  enacted  by  wise  men.  How  wisely  the  Constitutional  law 
of  our  country  has  been  framed !  It  provides  for  a  legislative  body  to 
carefully  study  and  enact  the  laws  of  our  country.  These  men  are 
not  to  execute  the  laws  that  they  themselves  make — it  would  be  a  danger- 
ous thing — but  an  administrative  department  of  government  is  pro- 
vided, which  is  to  execute  and  administer  the  law  enacted  by  the  legis- 
lative body.  They  are  just  laws.  It  may  he  that  laws  have  been  enacted 
which  were  in  a  sense  undesirable.  A  way  is  provided  by  which  they 
may  be  abrogated  or  amended,  and  that  is  the  proper  mode  of  procedure. 

GLADSTONE  ON  THE1  CONSTITUTION  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES 

I  desire  to  quote  what  William  Gladstone,  one  of  the  greatest  of 
our  modern  statesmen,  says  in  regard  to  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States :  ; 

"The  Constitution  of  the  United  States  is  the  most  wonderful  work 
ever  struck  off  at  a  given  time  by  the  brain  and  purpose  of  men."  And 
he  speaks  truly.  It  was  the  work  of  God,  his  wisdom  manifested  in 
the  men  who  created  it  and  brought  it  forth.    Gladstone  is  right. 

THE  NEED  OF  EMPHASIZING  LAW  OBSERVANCE 

Now  what  is  the  necessity  of  calling  attention  to  this  matter  at  this 
particular  time  ?  I  believe  that  we  who  are  present  know  that  the  neces- 
sity does  exist.  You  only  need  to  read  the  reports  that  come  to  us  from 
the  various  parts  of  the  United  States,  and  from  our  own  state  and 
county.  There  is  sufficient  evidence  to  demonstrate  that  lawlessness  is 
running  riot.  Men  go,  boldly  and  unmasked,  and  shoot  their  way  into 
the  treasure-houses  of  this  country,  killing,  if  law-abiding  men  stand  in 
the  way,  in  order  that  they  may  carry  away  that  which  does  not  belong 
to  them.  Men  violate,  unblushingly,  the  laws  of  chastity  and  virtue, 
which  are  the  very  foundations  upon  which  all  good  governments  may 
stand.  Men  holding  public  office  violate  that  trust  which  has  been  re- 
posed in  them  by  the  people,  and  themselves  stand  out  violators  of  the 
very  law  that  they  are  appointed  to  magnify  and  uphold.  Only  this 
morning  you  who  read  the  papers  saw  an  account  of  one  of  the  most 
atrocious  crimes  that  could  be  named,  said  to  have  been  perpetrated 
by  an  official  who  has  been  appointed  to  administer  the  law,  not  to 
violate  it,  in  which  at  a  threat  of  life  he  takes  a  woman  into  an  auto- 
mobile, carries  her  away  to  a  secluded  place,  and  there  keeps  her  during 
the  entire  night.  I  have  passed  a  good,  part  of  my  life  among  uncivilized 
people.  I  have  been  with  Indian  tribes  from  the  Canadian  border  to  the 
interior  of  Mexico,  and  I  have  never  in  my  experience  encountered  a 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS 


9 


tribe  of  Indians  who  would  tolerate  lawlessness  of  this  character  in  the 
indifferent  manner  that  we  do.  Men  are  arrested,  prosecution  is  sought, 
the  best  legal  talent  available  is  called  in  for  their  defense,  and  there  is 
scarcely  one  chance  in  ten  that  they  will  be  convicted.  Witnesses  un- 
blushingly  perjure  themselves,  while  attorneys  who  pose  as  respectable 
members  of  society,  with  full  knowledge  of  the  fact,  encourage  them 
in  it. 

OFFICIALS  BESET  WITH  VEXATIOUS  LAW  SUITS 

Officials  who  conscienciously  endeavor  to  execute  the  law  are  beset 
with  vexatious  law  suits,  the  money  for  which  is  furnished  by  lawless 
people,  until  they  are  driven  from  office. 

I  do  not  refer  to  local  conditions  alone.  Is  there  need  to  call  the 
attention  of  the  people  of  the  United  States,  of  our  own  state,  of  this 
entire  inter-mountain  country,  to  the  necessity  of  following  the  admo- 
nition of  the  Lord,  in  the  scripture  which  has  been  read  to  us,  that  in  the 
selection  of  the  men  who  are  to  administer  the  law,  we  should  choose 
men  of  integrity?  and  there  are  plenty  of  such  men,  many  of  whom 
are  now  in  public  service.  Do  not  understand  me  to  infer  that  there 
is  not  integrity  in  the  administration  of  our  public  affairs,  but  by  some 
means  rogues  slip  in,  under  the  shadow^ of  good  men,  before  their 
character  becomes  known. 

CALLING  OF  THE  CHURCH  TO  UPHOLD  RIGHT  AND  OPPOSE  CRIME 

I  speak  plainly  upon  this  subject,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  because  it 
appears  to  me  to  be  vital  to  our  welfare.  I  do  not  direct  my  remarks 
to  Latter-day  Saints  alone,  but  to  the  people  of  all  creeds,  professions 
of  faith,  or  of  no  faith  at  all.  I  know  that  politics  has  been  held  up  to 
us  as  a  thing  so  sacred  that  the  Church  has  nothing  to  do  with  it,  and 
should  not  refer  to  it.  I  ask  you,  in  heaven's  name,  what  is  the 
calling  of  the  Church,  if  it  is  not  to  oppose  lawlessness  and  crime,  and 
seek  to  establish  righteousness;  if  it  is  not  to  stand  firmly  for  the 
proper  administration  of  the  law,  and  to  oppose  violation  of  it  that  peace 
and  prosperity  may  abide  with  the  people  of  our  country,  which  can 
be  had  under  no  other  conditions? 

DESTINY  OF  NATION  FORETOLD 

I  wish  that  the  people  of  the  world  could  be  made  familiar  with  the 
contents  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  this  American  scripture  which  has 
been  before  the  world  during  a  century  of  time.  It  outlines  the  destiny 
of  this  nation,  tells  jt  as  plainly  as  history  will  tell  it  after  its  destiny  is 
accomplished.  It  makes  very  plain  this  fact :  That  if  the  government 
is  to  be  perpetuated,  as  it  may,  if  it  is  to  endure  as  God  has  decreed 
that  it  may,  it  can  only  be  by  service  to  the  God  of  the  land,  who  is 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord  and  Master.    That  is  definitely  decreed. 

AN  APPEAL  TO  CITIZENS  TO  UPHOLD  THE  LAW 

I  appeal  to  good  people  everywhere,  not  to  any  political  party,  not 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  any  particular  church,  but  to  all  people,  to  use  their  influence  to 
bring  to  pass  righteousness  in  the  administration  of  the  civil  affairs  of 
our  country,  and  I  make  this  appeal  to  both  the  church  and  the  state, 
for  both  need  it.  Do  men  preach  righteousness  who  themselves  violate 
the  civil  law?  Ask  the  preachers  of  today  for  the  answer.  Do  men 
standing  in  high  places  in  governmental  affairs  violate  the  law?  Go 
back  to  Washington  and  investigate.  How  can  we  expect,  as  this  states- 
man from  whom  the  president  has  quoted,  asks,  that  the  common  people, 
one  of  whom  I  am,  who  look  to  their  leaders  for  example,  shall  honor 
and  obey  the  law  when  they  see  it  constantly  violated  in  higher  callings 
of  life?  Violation  of  the  law  is  an  evil  under  any  circumstance,  but 
when  the  law  is  violated  by  people  who  are  chosen  to  maintain  and 
administer  it,'  it  becomes  a  double  offense  in  the  sight  of  God  and  man, 
because  a  man  not  only  becomes  a  violater  of  the  law,  but  he  breaks  the 
trust  placed  in  him,  the  trust  which  his  fellow  citizens  have  reposed 
in  him  and  which  he  has  sworn  to  discharge.  He  thus  becomes  doubly . 
guilty. 

nation's  salvation  rests  with  its  citizens 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  shall  not  prolong  my  remarks.  We  leave 
this  question  with  you.  We  want  you  to  understand  that  the  salvation 
of  this  nation  rests  in  the  hands  of  its  citizens,  not  in  the  hands  of 
those  who  control, its  civil  affairs  at  present,  but  those  who  hold  the 
franchise,  and  are  to  exercise  it  in  the  future.  It  appears  to  me  that  if 
the  importance  of  this  were  understood,  greater  care  would  be  exercised 
in  the  selection  of  men  for  public  office. 

There  are  enough  of  such  men,  and  to  spare,  to  administer  our 
public  affairs.  There  are  good  men,  honest  men,  in  all  political  parties, 
and  associated  with  all  churches,  and  many  who  are  allied  with  neither 
party  or  church.  I  do  not  appeal  to  any  particular  group  of  people,  but 
to  Christian  people  the  world  over. 

TEACH  AND  PRACTICE  PURITY  OF  LIFE 

I  appeal  to  you  to  teach  and  practice  righteousness  and  purity  of  life. 

Do  you  know  what  those  Indians  to  whom  I  have  referred  would 
do  with  a  woman  who  violated  the  law  of  chastity  ?  They  would  split 
her  ears,  and  cut  her  hair  in  a  maimer  that  she  would  be  recognized 
for  what  she  is,  wherever  she  went.  They  would  never  allow  her  to 
marry  in  the  tribe  again,  and  the  man  who  would  be  guilty  of  offences 
such  as  are  almost  daily  committed  in  our  communities,  would  be 
put  to  death.  It  may  have  been  a  barbarous  law,  but  it  kept  those  people 
free  from  the  sin  of  immorality,  until  they  were  corrupted  by  the  white 
man  who  came  among  them  and  introduced  his  more  civilized  mode  of 
life. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters.    May  his  spirit  be  with  us 
during  the  meetings  of  this  conference. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


11 


PROGRESS  OF  THE  CHURCH  WHAT  IT  STANDS  FOR 

The  report  made  by  the  President  indicates  to  you  that  the  Church 
is  developing ;  it  is  progressing.  Word  comes  to  us  from  one  of  the  mis- 
sions of  the  United  States  that  more  than  fourteen  thousand  copies  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon  have  been  distributed  by  the  Elders  of  the  Church 
in  that  mission  during  the  present  year.  It  is  a  wonderful  thing.  It  is  a 
wonderful  achievement,  indicating  that  the  people  of  the  United  States 
are  becoming  interested.  They  are  beginning  to  understand  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  what  it  stands  for,  what  it  lives 
for,  and  what\it  is  willing  to  die  for  to  the  last  man  if  necessary.  The 
constitutional  law  which  God  has  given  us  for  our  guidance,  has  made 
us,  through  observance  of  it,  the  dominant  nation  of  the  world  today. 
I  pray  for  God's  blessings  upon  the  government,  its  president,  its 
legislators,  upon  the  state  government,  its  governor  and  its  officers  who 
have  been  chosen ;  those  who  seek  to  administer  the  law  in  righteousness. 
May  God  bless  and  give  them  success,  I  pray,  through  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

A  solo,  "The  Lord  is  mindful  of  his  own,"  was  sung  by  Mrs. 
Jesse  Morley. 

ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

"And  they  were  all  young  men,  and  they  were  exceedingly  valiarit  for  cour- 
age, and  also  for  strength  and  activity;  but  behold,  this  was  not  all — they  were 
men  who  were  true  at  all  times  in  whatsoever  thing  they  were  entrusted. 

"Yea,  they  were  men  of  truth  and  soberness,  for  theyi  had  been  taught  to 
keep  the  commandments  of  God  and  to  walk  uprightly  before  him." — Alma  53 :20, 

THE  MISSION  OF  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  . 

The  mission  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  may  be  considered  in  two 
great  aspects ;  one,  the  proclamation  to  the  world  of  the  restoration  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ — the  declaration  to  all  mankind  that  God 
the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  appeared  in  this  dispensation  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  That  in  itself  is  a  wonderful  message. 

There  are  in  this  audience  sixty-two  missionaries  who  are  prepar- 
ing to  go  abroad  to  give  this  proclamation.  They  are  but  representa- 
tives of  two  thousand  others  who,  paying  their  own  expenses,  are 
abroad  in  the  world  declaring  in  all  rsincerity  that  God,  as  a  /loving 
Father,  ever  mindful  of  the  children  of  men,  has  revealed  the  means 
whereby  mankind  can  return  to  his  presence.  That  is  one  important 
phase  or  mission  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  other  great  purpose  of  the  Church  is  to  translate  truth  into 
a  better  social  order,  or  in  other  words,  to  make  our  religion  effective 
in  the  individual  lives  of  men,  and  in  improving  social  conditions.  It 
is  the  second  aspect  to  which  I  wish  to  call  attention  this  morning. 

I  have  read  from  the  fifty-third  chapter  of  Alma,  which  gives  an 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


account  of  young  men  who  were  exceedingly  valiant  for  courage,  for 
strength,  and  activity — men  who  were  true  at  all  times  in  whatsoever 
thing  they  were  entrusted.  Who  were  these  young  men?  They  were 
sons  of  parents  who  were  equally  true  to  every  trust.  Their  parents 
were  converted  Lamanites  who,  when  the  Spirit  of  God  came  upon 
them,  devoted  their  lives  to  the  service  of  their  fellow  men,  and  in  their 
ministry  in  the  Church  covenanted  that  they  would  never  more  take 
up  arms  against  their  brethren,  never  more  go  to  war.  Such  was  their 
oath  ;  such  was  their  covenant;  and  they  were  true  to  it  even  unto  death. 

A  MOST  BEAUTIFUL  PICTURE 

One  of  .the  most  beautiful  .pictures  given  in  all  literature  is  the 
picture  of  these  parents  going  out  to  meet  enemies  who  came  against 
them  with  swords,  and  sacrificing  their  lives  rather  than  to  uncover 
the  swords  they  had  buried  and  given  their  word  not  to'  unearth.  One 
thousand  of  these  parents  suffered  death  rather  than  violate  their 
covenant.  Meeting  no  resistance,  the  enemy,  being  conscience-stricken, 
stopped  the  massacre,  after  a  thousand  men  had  proved  that  they  pre- 
ferred death  to  the  violation  of  a  trust. 

THE  RESPONSIBILITY  OF  PARENTHOOD 

I  mention  this  because  parenthood  has  much  to  do  in  inculcating 
courage  and  trustworthiness  in  children.  The  law  of  cause  and  effect 
is  working  in  parenthood  as  it  is  in  any  other  law  of  nature.  There  is  a 
responsibility  upon  all,  and  especially  upon  fathers  and  mothers,  to  set 
examples  to  children  and  young  people  worthy  of  imitation.  Parents 
must  be  sincere  in  upholding  law  and  upholding  the  priesthood  in  their 
homes,  that  children  may  see  a  proper  example.  Respect  for  law  and 
order,  as  charity,  begins  at  home. 

These  young  men  were  true  to  every  trust.  They  were  men  of 
integrity.  I  cannot  think  of  anything  which  will  contribute  more  to 
the  establishing  of  law  and  order  than  for  each  individual  to  cherish 
integrity  and  honesty  in  his  or  her  heart.  Integrity,  honesty — the 
Latter-day  Saints  stand  for  these  fundathental  principles.  They  are 
generally  noted  for  their  integrity  and  honesty,  and  it  is  with  sorrow 
we  receive  the  word,  whenever  it  comes  through  the  press  or  by  voice, 
that  one  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  has  failed  in  his  obligation  to  trust. 

THE  VALUE  OF  INTEGRITY 

I  remember  with  what  pride  I  listened  to  a  conversation  over  the 
telephone  in  one  of  our  stakes.  The  president  was  called  from  the 
dining  table  to  the  telephone.  His  part  of  the  conversation  I  heard, 
and  I  can  give  both.  The  gentleman  at  the  other  end,  no;t  a  member 
of  the  Church,  was  a  real  estate  man.  He  had  in  his  office  a  man  who 
was  making  a  purchase  but  who  could  not  pay  the  entire  sum  for  the 
property.  The  purchaser  claimed  to  be  a  member  of  this  Church,  and 
the  real  estate  dealer  called  up  the  president  of  the  stake  to  confirm 
this  statement. 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


13 


"Do  you  know,"  said  the  realtor,  "Mr.  Blank?" 

"Yes,"  said  the  president. 

"Is  he  a  member  of  your  Church?" 

"He  is." 

"Is  he  in  good  standing?" 
"Yes,"  replied  the  president. 

"Thank  you,"  said  the  real  estate  dealer.  "He  is  here  to  make  a 
loan.  If  he  is  a  member  of  your  Church  in  good  standing  I  will 
trust  him." 

Integrity,  the  first  principle  of  success.  "Give  us  the  man  of  in- 
tegrity, on  whom  we  know  we  can  thoroughly  depend,  who  will  -stand 
firm  when  others  fail,  the  friend  faithful  and  true,  the  adviser,  honest 
and  fearless,  the  adversary,  just  and  chivalrous ;  such  a  one  is  a  frag- 
ment of  the  rock  of  ages."  Integrity  is  the  first  step  to  true  greatness. 
Men  love  to  praise,  but  are  slow  to  practice,  integrity.  To  maintain  it 
in  high  places  costs  self-denial.  In  all  places  it  is  liable  to  opposition, 
but  its  end  is  glorious,  and  the  universe  will  yet  do  it  homage.  "A  man 
of  integrity  will  never  listen  to  any  plea  against  conscience." 

MR.  BABSONJS  COMMENT 

Many  of  you  are  familiar  with  a  comment  on  this  fundamental 
principle  by  Mr.  Roger  W.  Babson,  the  great  statistician : 

"The  things  which  we  look  upon  as  of  great  value:  the  stocks,  bonds,  bank- 
books, deeds,  mortgages,  insurance  policies,  etc.,  are  merely  nothing.  While  51 
per  cent  of  the  people  have  their  eyes  on  the  goal  of  Integrity,  our  investments 
are  secure ;  but  with  51  per  cent  of  thepi  headed  in  the  wrong  direction,  our 
investments  are  valueless.  So  the  first  fundamental  of  prosperity  is  integrity. 
Without  it  there  is  no  civilization,  there  is  no  peace,  there  is  no  security,  there 
is  no  safety.  Mind  you,  also,  that  this  applies  just  as  much  to  the  man!  who  is 
working  for  wages  as  to  the  capitalist  and  every  owner  of  property. 

"Integrity,  however,  applies  to  many  more  things  than  money.  Integrity 
requires  the  seeking  after,  as  well  as  the  dispensing  of,  the  truth.  It  was  this 
desire  for  truth  which  founded  our  educational  institutions,  our  sciences  and  our 
arts.  All  the  great  professions,  from  medicine  to  engineering,  rest  upon!  this 
spirit  of  integrity.  Only  as  they  so  rest,  can  they  prosper  or  even  survive. 

"Integrity  is  the  mother  of  knowledge.  The  desire  for  truth  is  the  basis 
for  all  learning,  the  value  of  all  experience  and  the  reason  for  all  study  and 
investigation.  Without  integrity  as  a  basis,  our  entire  educational  system  would 
fall  to  the  ground ;  all  newspapers  and  magazines  would  become  sources  of 
great  danger,  and  the  publication  of  books  would  have  to  be  suppressed.  Our 
whole  civilization  rests  upon  the  assumption  that  people  are  honest.  With  this 
confidence  shaken,  the  structure  falls.  And  it  should  fall,  for  unless  the  truth 
should  be  taught,  the  nation  would  be  much  better  off  without  its  schools,  news- 
papers, books  and  professions.  Better  have  no  gun  at  all,  than  one  aimed  at 
yourself.  .The  cornerstone  of  prosperity  is  the  stone  of  Integrity." 

George  Washington,  the  father  of  our  country,  said : 

"I  hope  I  shall  always  possess  firmness  and  virtue  enough  to  maintain  what 
I  consider  to  be  the  most  enviable  of  all  titles,  the  character  of  an  honest  man." 

THE  APPLICATION 

Now,  the  application  of  this  thought.  In  addition  to  what  we  have 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


heard  this  morning  from  the  President,  I  would  like  to  read  this  from 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

"We  believe  that  governments  were  instituted  of  God  for  the  -benefit  of 
man;  and  that  he  holds  men  accountable  for  their  acts  in  relation  to  them, 
both  in  making  laws  and  administering  them,  for  the  good  and  safety  of  society. 

"We  believe  that  all  governments  necessarily  require  civil  officers  and  magis- 
trates to  enforce  the  laws  of  the  saime;  and  that  such  as  will  administer  the 
law  in  equity  and  justice  should  be  sought  for  and  upheld  by  the  voice  of  the 
people." 

No  Latter-day  Saint  can  be  true  to  his  country,  true  to  his  Church, 
true  to  his  God,  who  will  violate  these  laws  which  relate  to1  the  moral 
welfare  and  the  spiritual  advancement  of  mankind. 

LATTER-DAY  SAINTS   MUST  UPHOLD  THE  LAW 

There  is  much  being  said  now  about  the  law  prohibiting  the  manu- 
facture and  sale  of  liquor.  Latter-day  Saints  should  uphold  that  law 
everywhere,  at  socials,  at  banquets.  Civil  officers,  members  of  clubs, 
who  are  contributing  to  the  formation  of  public  opinion  ought  to  be 
proud  to  uphold  that  law.  It  is  a  constitutional  law,  and  it  is  time  that 
the  leaders  of  this  country,  the  politicians,  the  statesmen,  the  leaders  in 
civic  affairs  in  the  state  and  in  the  cities  should  so  speak  of  this  law, 
so  act  towards  it,  that  public  sentiment  would  be  turned  in  favor  of  its 
enforcement.  Latter-day  Saints,  we  are  expected  to  uphold  it  and  to 
uphold  every  other  law  which  contributes  to  the  advancement  and  peace 
of  mankind.  And  these  laws  against  the  manufacture  and  sale  of  in- 
toxicating liquors  are  such  laws,  and  our  conditions  now  in  society, 
with  millions  of  automobiles,  the  drivers  of  which  must  be  at  their 
very  best,  active  mentally,  quick  to  respond  physically  in  emergency, 
make  it  necessary  that  we  eliminate  from  society  anything  that  will  be- 
cloud the  brain  or  leave  the  driver's  hand  unsteady.  We  are  living 
in  a  condition  in  which  we  cannot  with  impunity  foster  traffic  in  intoxi- 
cating liquors.  God  said  long  ago  that  they  were  not  good  for  man. 
Our  boys  and  girls,  from  the  standpoint  of  integrity  and  consistency, 
should  take  a  stand  against  the  use  thereof. 

TRANSLATE  OUR  RELIGION  INTO  PERFECT  SOCIAL  CONDITIONS 

All  should  take  pride  in  making  "Mormonism"  a  synonym  for 
trustworthiness,  temperance,  chastity,  honesty,  justice — these  are  funda- 
mental principles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
and  by  exemplifying  them  in  our  lives  we  contribute  to  the  transfor- 
mation of  society,  we  translate  our  religion  into  better  social  condi- 
tions and  bring  salvation  and  peace  to  men  here  and  now. 

May  our  Father  in  heaven  guide  and  protect  the  missionaries  who 
are  out  proclaiming  the  restoration  of  the  gospel.  May  he  bless  Israel 
here  at  home,  who,  through  faithfulness,  will  contribute  to  an  im- 
proved social  order.  May  it  be  recorded  also  of  our  young  men : 
They  are  men  of  truth  and  soberness — men  who  are  true  at  all  times 
in  whatsoever  thing  they  are  entrusted,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


15 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  have  been  much  impressed,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  with  the 
instructions  given  to  us  this  morning.  I  realized  while  listening  to 
the  remarks  and  instructions  that  in  what  has  been  said  there  is  inspira- 
tion for  many  sermons.  I  would  like  to  discuss  for  a  moment  the 
statement  contained  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  to  the  effect  that 
there  is  "a  law  irrevocably  decreed,  in  heaven,  before  the  foundations 
of  this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated,  ,and  when  we 
obtain  any  blessing  from  God  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law  upon  which 
it  is  predicated."  In  effect,  as  I  understand  it,  this  means  that  obedi- 
ence to  principle  and  law  brings  blessings.  Conversely,  we  may  say 
that  disobedience  to  principle  and  law  will  fail  to  produce  desired 
results. 

I  am  impressed  with  the  statement  made  by  Brother  David  O. 
McKay  with  regard  to  the  matter  of  integrity.  This  great  fundamental 
characteristic  is  too  often  lacking  among  mankind.  Some  years  ago 
one  of  the  great  national  engineering  societies,  composed  of  many 
thousands  of  members,  sent  out  a  questionnaire  to  these  various  men 
throughout  the  country,  asking  them  to  indicate  the  requisites  to  suc- 
cess in  engineering  work.  The  result  of  that  questionnaire  was  in 
some  respects  rather  surprising.  Instead  of  specifying  the  first  requi- 
site as  technical  skill  and  knowledge,  the  statement  generally  made 
was  that  the  first  requisite  is  character  and  integrity,  and  that  other 
things  should  follow.  I  am  sure  that  that  characteristic  is  recognized 
as  being  most  important  for  the  welfare  and  lasting  success  of  men 
everywhere.  There  are  conditions  prevailing,  as  has  been  stated  today, 
that  require  the  development  of  integrity  and  stability  among  the  people 
of  the  United  States  and  of  the  world  generally. 

To  produce  the  greatest  results  in  this  direction  it  will  invp^ve 
thorough  training  of  young  people.  Theodore  Roosevelt  declared,  in 
speaking  of  the  development  of  boys,  that  "if  you  are  going  to  do  any- 
thing permanent  for  the  average  man,  you  have  got  to  begin  before 
he  is  a  man.  The  chances  of  success  lie  in  working  with  the  boy  and- 
not  the  man."  I  think  it  was  Henry  VanDyke  who  stated  that  few 
men  over  twenty-five  years  of  age  change  their  habits  of  thought  and 
action.  I  do  not  believe  that  to  be  entirely  the  case,  although  it  is' 
probably  true  in  mo^t  instances. 

In  my  own  experience  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  I'  know  that 
the  Lord  has  power  to  and  does  change  men's  hearts  and  their  desires 
and  determination  when  they  are  much  older.  This  occurs  when  they 
are  brought  to  a  condition  of  repentance,  through  an  understanding 
of  the  fact  that  the  things  they  are  doing  are  not  in  conformity  with  his 
laws.  No  matter  what  their  age  may  be  they  can  repent  and  change 
entirely  their  habits  and  course  of  action,  and  their  desires  and  deter- 
mination. If  time  would  permit,  experiences  could  be  related  indi- 
cating such  changes  which  have  entirely  altered  the  course  of  life  of 


16  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

men  in  the  world  who  have  come  to  a  knowledge  and  acceptance  of 
the  principles  of  the  gospel. 

It  being  the  case  that  character  and  integrity  are  recognized  gener- 
ally as  a  prime  requisite  to  supcess  and  progress,  I  am  sure  that  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  which  we  have  espoused,  if  they  were  observed 
by  the  people  of  the  world  generally,  would  develop  these  very  quali- 
ties in  them.  I  appreciate  the  fact  that  olbedience  to  the  principles  of 
the  gospel  requires  will  power,  and  will  power  is  developed  through 
integrity.  So  that,  in  a  sense,  the  observance  of  these  principles  re- 
quires integrity,  and  also  produces  integrity.  That  is  true  with  regard 
to  every  principle  of  the  gospel. 

So  far  as  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  concerned  we  realize  that,  as 
the  Lord  has  said,  those  who  observe  this  principle  and  endeavor  to 
live  in  accordance  with  the  spirit  of  it  will  receive  blessings — temporal 
and  spiritual  blessings.  They  develop  physically,  mentally  and  spir- 
itually, and  as  they  do  so  they  develop  their  will  power  to  resist  the 
things  that  are  contrary  to  the  desires  of  the  Lord  and  their  own  well- 
being. 

If  time  permitted  we  could  discuss  at  some  length  the  benefits 
that  come  from  observance  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  the  bad 
results  that  come  from  the  lack  of  observance  of  that  principle.  Medical 
authorities  are  agreed  that  the  use  of  cigarettes  is  harmful,  that  it 
tends  to  weaken  the  moral  fiber  of  men  and  women,  and  that  in  addi- 
tion thereto  the  use  of  cigarettes  by  women  not  only  weakens  their 
moral  vitality,  but  also  interferes  with  the  functions  of  motherhood 
and  the  welfare  of  their  children.  Shall  it  be  said  that  those  who  use 
cigarettes  are  morally  unfit,  or  that  they  are  not  living  in  accordance 
with  moral  principles?  I  will  not  say  that,  but  I  do  say  that  they  are 
able  to  maintain  their  morals  in  spite  of,  rather  than  because  of,  the 
use  of  cigarettes  and  tobacco.  I  realize  the  fact,  and  I  believe  it  is 
recognized,  that  those  who  do  use  tobacco  are  weakened  thereby,  and 
any  success  they  enjoy  is  in  spite  of  the  fart  that  they  use  it.  This  is 
just  as  true  of  the  use  of  liquor  and  narcotics,  which  injuriously  affect 
the  moral  stamina  as  well  as  the  physical  body. 

Some  time  ago  the  claim  was  made  to  me  by  a  man  who  is  giving 
his  main  efforts  toward  money-making,  that  the  most  successful  men 
of  today  in  the  business  world  are  using  liquor  notwithstanding  it  is 
contrary  to  law.  At  random  I  have  noted  the  statements  made  by  vari- 
ous men  of  prominence  relative  thereto.  I  would  like  to  show  the  atti- 
tude of  such  men,  some  of  whom  did  not  use  liquor  even  when  it 
was  not  against  the  law. 

Richard  Washburn  Child  said  of  Theodore  Roosevelt  that  in  years 
of  intimate  acquaintance  he  never  knew  him  to  take  any  stimulant  other 
than  hot  milk.  Henry  Ford  is  strongly  against  the  use  of  liquor,  and 
does  not  even  allow  smoking  by  his  men.  Tom  Mix,  the  noted  movie 
artist,  does  not  smoke  or  drink.  Calvin  Coolidge  is  opposed  to  the 
use  of  liquor.  Mussolini,' the  great  Italian  dictator,  says,  "I  abstain 
rigidly  from  all  kinds  of  alcoholic  beverages,  even  from  the  lightest 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


17 


wines."  Also,  he  says,  "Coffee  is  never  served  me  at  any  meal.  It  is 
a  stimulant,  compelling  by  its  action  a  useless  nervous  effort,  resulting 
in  no  concrete  good."  Charlie  Chaplin,  the  noted  movie  comedian,  says 
he  does  not  use  liquor.  It  is  further  stated  that  once  in  a  while  he  uses 
a  cigarette,  but  without  enthusiasm. 

The  result  of  the  observance  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  that  it 
develops  integrity  and  character  in  men  and  women.  Whether  they 
acknowledge  that  these  principles  have  been  given  of  the  Lord,  or 
whether  they  accept  them  as  coming  from  medical  science,  the  observ- 
ance of  the  same  makes  for  their  welfare.  From  whatever  source  or 
idea  they  gain  the  conviction,  it  is  for  their  benefit  if  they  observe  it ; 
and,  if  they  fail,  it  is  for  their  injury.  In  like  manner  every  principle 
of  the  gospel  brings  its  own  blessing. 

Now,  of  course,  as  Latter-day  Saints  we  realize  that  the  thing  the 
Lord  desires  of  us  is  that  we  should  observe  his  commandments  be- 
cause we  love  him  and  because  we  recognize  in  him  the  fulness  of 
wisdom.  Yet,  while  we  accept  these  things  as  coming  from  the  Lord, 
we  also  gain  understanding  of  the  reasons  why  they  are  for  our  blessing. 

The  principle  of  tithing  is  for  many  people  a  difficult  one  to  ob- 
serve. Yet  there  are  many  people  outside  of  this  Church  who,  while 
not  recognizing  any  direct  revelation  from  the  Lord  for  the  observ- 
ance of  the  principle,  read  the  Bible  and  find  that  in  early  times  this 
principle  was  observed.  Therefore,  they  are  undertaking  to  live  it. 
/  They  call  themselves  tithers,  and  are  faithful  in  the  observance  of  that 
principle.  Not-long  since  there  was  a  man  in  my  office  from  the  East — 
a  Presbyterian — and  we  were  discussing  the  principle  of  tithing.  He 
stated  that  anyone  who  would  observe  the  principle  of  tithes,  would 
find  that  nine-tenths  of  his  income  would  go  as  far  as  the  ten  would 
otherwise  go.  It  seems  from  an  economic  standpoint  a  difficult  thing 
to  understand  and  appreciate,  and  yet  that  is  the  testimony  of  many 
people. 

I  would  like  to  relate  to  you  briefly  an  instance  that  occurred  in 
a  ward  in  one  of  the  stakes  in  Canada.  Some  years  ago  the  people  were 
in  a  critical  financial  condition  because  of  the  failure  of  crops.  At 
that  time  a  special  tithing  campaign  was  inaugurated  and  the  people 
were  encouraged  to  fully  obey  this  principle.  From  that  time,  about 
five  years  ago,  up  to  the  present  they  have  continued  to  suffer  at  least 
partial  losses  of  their  crops.  Some  of  the  people  moved  away,  mainly 
non-members  of  the  Church.  But  the  members  of  the  ward  under- 
took faithfully  to  live  the  principle  of  tithing,  and  as  evidence  of  that 
it  is  shown  that  in  the  six  months'  report  for  this  year,  90  per  cent 
of  those  who  should  observe  the  principle  of  tithing  had  observed  it. 

What  is  the  result?  In  spite  of  the  fact  that  crop  conditions  and 
climatic  conditions  have  not  been  entirely  favorable ;  in  spite  of  the  fact 
that  at  the  time  they  were  financially  embarrassed,  the  people  have  been 
blessed  and  prospered.  They  have  practically  gotten  out  of  debt,  they 
have  become  more  united,  their  attendance  at  meetings  is  remarkable, 
and  the  activities  of  the  ward  are  unusual.    They  are  living  the  prin- 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ciples  of  the  gospel.  They  have  been  relieved  of  their  obligations.  They 
have  learned  how  to  do  things,  they  have  brought  in  dairy  cows,  sheep 
and  hogs,  and  have  learned  to  manufacture  the  raw  materials  of  the 
farm  into  products  that  will  sell  profitably.  The  result  is  that  they  are 
in  a  position  to  go  forward,  and  they  are  now  building  a  meeting-house 
which  they  expect  will  be  paid  for  within  a  year.  A  little  ward  of 
that  kind,  under  the  most  unfavorable  conditions,  through  renewing 
their  covenants  and  observing  this  principle,  have  gained  financial  bless- 
ings. More  than  that,  they  have  gained  spiritual  blessings  which  come 
through  the  observance  of  it.  And  so  the  blessing  comes  to  every  one 
of  us  according  to  the  way  we  live  it. 

I  am  convinced  of  the  fact  that  the  principle  of  tithing  is  a  prin- 
ciple of  blessing,  spiritually  first,  financially  second,  and  that  it  offers 
opportunity  to  relieve  ourselves  of  obligations  that  may  press  upon  us, 
and  will  increase  our  progress  and  growth  in  the  gospel  and  in  life. 
I  know  that  it  develops  in  every  one  that  obeys  it  the  qualities  of  integrity 
and  determination  to  be  worthy  of  the  trust  that  is  placed  in  us,  so 
that  our  word  shall  he  as  good  as  our  bond.  I  know  that  the  observ- 
ance of  this  principle  will  bring  us  up  to  that  standard.  . 

It  is  the  same  with  regard  to  the  principle  of  fasting  and  fast  offer- 
ings. The  Lord  declared  many  years  ago  through  his  servants  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  should  observe  fasting.  The  Savior  in  his  day 
taught  this  principle.  Those  who  observe  that  principle  are  /physically 
stronger  and  better  off,  the  digestive  system  has  the  opportunity  to 
rest  and  to  gain  strength  and  vigor  to  be  able  to  carry  on  its  func- 
tions. Some  of  the  worst  diseases  of  the  people  of  the  United  States 
today  are  due  to  digestive  troubles  through  overeating.  The  principle 
of  fasting,  properly  observed,  will  help  us  to  enjoy  greater  vitality.  It 
will  also  help  us  to  develop  increased  will  p'ower  and  determination,  to 
overcome  and  to  resist  the  temptations  which  come  to  us  in  life,  and 
it  will  develop  in  us  the  spirit  of  sympathy  and  consideration  for  our 
fellowmen.  And  so,  the  observance  of  this  principle  will  bring  the 
blessings  which  we  desire  to  enjoy  and  which  we  need  to  enable  us 
to  become  better  men  and  women. 

In  like  manner  the  observance  of  the  principle  of  prayer  yields 
remarkable  blessings.  It  is  a  principle  that  is  being  neglected  very 
seriously  throughout  the  world  today  by  many  people  who  have  gotten 
away  from  the  love  of  God  and  faith  in  him.  This  principle,  drawing 
one  to  the  Lord  in  humility,  and  in  faith,  asking  him  for  the  things 
we  desire,  and  giving  him  gratitude  and  praise  for  his  blessings  to  us, 
is  a  source  of  strength  and  power  that  will  enable  us  to  overcome  our 
weaknesses,  and  develop  in  us  faith  and  determination  to  do  right.  ' 

I  do  not  feel  that  I  ought  to  take  more  time,  my  brethren  and 
sisters.  I  desire  to  testify  to  you  that  the  observance  of  these  principles 
will  bring  blessings  to  men  that  will  develop  in  them  integrity  and 
uprightness,  initiative,  faith,  and  ability  to  stand  against  all  the  winds 
of  contrary  doctrine,  or  of  temptation  or  trial.    Observance  of  these 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


19 


principles  will  enable  us  to  go  forward  and  live  in  humility  in  accord- 
ance with  the  will  of  the  Lord. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  that  we  may  train  the  young  men  and 
women  especially,  that  they  may  be  qualified  and  developed  in  the 
observance  of  these  things,  and  thereby  become  men  and  women  of 
integrity,  in  order  that  the  next  generation  shall  be  able  to  carry  on 
every  phase  of  activity  in  the  most  effective  way,  I  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

Senior  President  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  call  yo^ur  attention,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  what  is  desig- 
nated as  our  Twelfth  Article  of  Faith,  which  reads : 

"We  believe  in  being  subject  to  kings,  presidents,  rulers  and  magis- 
trates ;  in  obeying,  honoring  and  sustaining  the  law." 

I  think  by  reading  this  Article  of  Faith  as  a  text  I  shall  be  able 
in  my  thinking  to  be  in  harmony  with  the  spirit  of  this  meeting  by* 
reason  of  what  our  president  has  said,  and  this  meeting  may  be  the 
dominating  influence  of  the  entire  conference. 

On  my  way  home  from  the  East  recently,  when  passing  through 
Scranton,  Pennsylvania,  I  picked  up  the  current  paper  of  that  day,  and  in 
it  was  a  statement  from  the  census  returns  of  the  United  States,  taken 
from  the  Census  Bureau,  Washington,  that  crime  was  increasing,  in  pro- 
portion, faster  than  the  growth  of  our  population,  according  to  the  in- 
crease of  persons  sent  to  prison.  Complete  returns  from  thirty-one 
states,  covering  fifty-eight  of  a  total  of  ninety-nine  state  prisons  and 
reformatories,  listed  27,018  new  prisoners  received  by  these  institu- 
tions in  1926,  as  compared  with  21,054  in  1923,  the  firsjt  prison  census 
year  in  this  country,  or  an  increase  of  28.3  per  cent.  There  were  34.1 
prisoners  for  100,000  population  jailed  last  year,  as  against  27.9  in  1923. 

Then  as  we  came  through  Denver,  I  picked  up  the  Rocky  Moun- 
tain News,-  and  in  it  found  a  column  devoted  to  crime  and  its  increase. 
I  do  not  have  time  to  read  it,  but  it  would  be  very  enlightening  to  do 
so.  It  would,  however,  occupy  too  much  time.  Let  it  be  sufficient  to 
say  that  the  writer  of  that  special  column  traced  the  crime  of  our  coun- 
try from  the  highest  stations  in  political  life,  from  those  who  had  been 
found  guilty  of  crime  in  the  President's  cabinet,  through  governors  of 
states  and  mayors  of  cities,  down  to  the  lowly  stations  in  life.  It  con- 
stitutes a  rather  severe  arraignment  of  the  present  status  of  the  United 
States  in  the  matter  of  law  observance.  One  statement  was  to  the 
effect  that  according  to  General  Lincoln  C.  Andrews,  former  Assistant 
Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  there  are  no  less  than  40,000,000  drinkers  in 
this  prohibition  country,  and  "home-brew  is  becoming  a  nation-wide 
enterprise."  (  ; 

And  so  throughout  in  the  column  he  discusses  the  question  of 
violation  of  law  and  the  increase  of  the  volume  of  it. 

Then,  on  the  evening  that  I  arrived  home,  I    chanced  to  pick  up 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


a  Salt  Lake  paper,  and  noticed  that  the  Chief  of  Police  in  our  city 
was  calling  attention  to  "special  juvenile  delinquencies"  in  the  city,  and 
giving  special  instructions  to  the  police  officers  of  the  city  to  under- 
take the  arrest  of  the  development  of  this  species  of  crime.  In  that 
article  there  is  a  list  running  through  crimes  of  four  days  that  makes 
the  heart  sick,  crimes  committed  upon  juveniles,  and  crimes  by  juve- 
niles, that  no  man  can  read,  I  am  sure,  and  not  be  moved  by  sorrow  at 
the  spectacle  it  represents. 

You  will  see  that  coming  in  contact  with  these  incidents,  through 
the  public  press,  on  my  way  home,  and  just  upon  my  arrival  here, 
brought  me  in  contact  with,  and  reminded  me  of,  the  subject  that  has 
been  under  discussion  for  the  last  thirty  years  in  this  country  by  pub- 
licists, by  statesmen,  jurists,  and  various  institutions  that  stand  for  law 
and  order. 

.  I  have  been  interesting  myself  in  this  subject  for  some  length  of 
time.  I  happened  to  come  upon  some  notes  since  arriving  home  wherein 
I  found  a  discourse  delivered  by  myself  in  this  tabernacle,  in  1924,  in 
which  I  set  forth,  after  elaborate  statistical  investigations,  the  support- 
ing evidence  for  a  statement  which  had  been  made  by  Chief  Justice 
Taft,  in  1908,  before  the  Bar  Association  in  New  York,  to  the  effect 
that  "the  administration  of  law  in  our  country  was  a  disgrace  to  civiliza- 
tion." There  was  much  disputation  that  arose  over  that  statement, 
which  led  me  to  an  investigation  with,"  to  me,  startling  results,  only  to 
be  convinced  that  our  Chief  Justice  was  within  the  truth  in  making 
that  very  strong  statement. 

We  cannot  go  into  statistics  in  relation  to  this  subject  now, 
but  you  will  be  interested  in  hearing  this  quotation  from  the  words  of 
Judge  Alfred  Talley,  of  the  Court  of  General  Sessions  of  New  York, 
when  introducing  into  office  a  new  jurist  a  year  or  two  ago.  He  said 
to  him  in  giving  him  his  charge : 

"One  of  the  things  that  you  will  come  to  learn  is  that  you  have  come  to  the 
bench  of  the  greatest  criminal  court  in  the  world,  and  the  oldest  court  of  any 
kind  in  the  United  States,  at  a  time  when  this  country  is  suffering  under  an 
indictment  which  proclaims  it  to  be  the  most  lawless  on  earth.  You  will  find 
that  the  United  States  must  plead  guilty  to  that  indictment.  Most  of  the 
desperate  criminals  are  mere  boys." 

And  that  I  think  is  one  of  the  tragical  things  connected  with  the 
growth  of  crime,  that  its  increase  is  chiefly  among  the  youth  of  the  land. 
Judge  Talley  continued: 

"You  will  be  heartbroken  at  discovering  that  the  vast  majority  of  defendants 
are  under  nineteen  or  twenty  years  old,  and  that  is  going  to  be  your  distressing 
problem." 

Another  statement  I  want  to  read  to  you  is  an  excerpt  from  the 
report  of  the  Commission  of  Law  Enforcement,  presented  to  a  meet- 
ing of  the  American  Bar  Association  in  San  Francisco,  several  years 
ago  ;  and  the  conditions  have  not  changed  since  then,  only  to  grow  worse. 
This  is  the  statement : 

"Crime  and  lawlessness  in  the  United  States  have  been  steadily  on  the  in- 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS 


■21 


crease  and  out  of  proportion  to  pur  growth,  and  there  has  been  a  steady  and 
growing  disrespect  for  law  in  our  nation.    This  is  not  a  result  of  the  war." 

You  know  we  are  disposed  to  blame  pretty  much  all  of  this  spirit 
of  lawlessness  to  the  effect  of  the  great  World  War.  But  this  authority 
denies  that  and  offers  this  in  proof: 

"We  do  not  find  the  proportional  increase  in  crime  from  1916  to  1922  greater 
than  from  1910  to  1916,  (That  is  the  year  before  we  went  into  the  War)  and 
we  have  not  been  able  to  discover  that  crimes  of  violence  have  materially  increased 
in  France,  in  England  or  Canada  during  or  since  the  War,  although  the  effect  of 
the  War  naturally  must  be  more  marked  in  those  countries." 

There  is  much  more  that  might  be  said  in  evidence  of  this,  but 
perhaps  it  is  unprofitable,  and  impossible  at  least,  for  me  now  to  discuss 
the  obvious.  The  testimonials  are  so  overwhelming,  the  crowd  of  wit- 
nesses is  so  great  that  as  American  citizens  we  are  face  to  face  with 
the  fact  that  in  our  country  we  are  Kving  in  an  age  of  lawlessness;  aind 
therefore  I  deem  it  important  that  for  ourselves  and  for  the  world, 
as  far  as  we  can  reach  them  by  proclamation,  it  should  be  known  that 
in  these  mountains,  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  stands  a  people 
pledged  to  the  support  of  law  and  of  order,  and  I  think  Latter-day 
Saints  no  less  than  the  world  ought  to  have  their  attention  called  to 
that  important  truth. 

Many  reasons  crowd  in  upon  our  attention  that  are  interwoven 
with  this  great  theme,  the  keynote  of  which  President  Grant  has  struck 
in  his  opening  remarks  this  morning. 

I  shall  only  take  time  to  note  here  one,  ,but  that  one  represents 
a  great  contributing  cause  of  the  growth  and  increase  of  lawlessness 
in  our  country.  It  arises  from  the  uncertainty  in  the  execution  of  the 
law.  Perhaps  in  the  foundation  of  our  government,  in  establishing 
the  constitution  of  our  country  and  our  state  constitutions,  the  people 
of  that  generation  had  been  under  the  iron  heel  of  oppressive  govern- 
ments so  long,  that  they  became  extremely  anxious  to  protect  the  indi- 
vidual against  encroachments  of  tyrannical  administration  of  law,  and 
therefore  over-emphasized  the  rights  of  the  individual  and  the  protec- 
tion of  those  rights,  and  had  less  concern  for  the  larger  rights  and  the 
protection  of  society  from  criminals.  In  this  spirit  the  legislation  has 
run  in  our  states  and  in  our  nation,  viz :  to  safeguard  and  to  provide 
every  possible  means  for  the  protection  of  the  rights  of  those  who  are 
accused  of  crimes.  And  these  laws,  favoring  so  strongly  the  criminal, 
have  been  so  used  by  skilful  attorneys  for  the  defense,  that  the  adminis- 
tration of  law  has  become  a  science  for  protecting  the  criminal  from 
the  just  judgment  and  punishment  of  his  crimes. 

We  have  a  very  prominent  case  in  mind  now  and  of  recent  occur- 
rence that  illustrates  this  point.  iSix  years  ago  two  men  were  con- 
victed under  due  process  of  law  in  the  state  of  Massachusetts  for  shoot- 
ing down  and  robbing  in  full  daylight,  and  in  a  crowded  thoroughfare 
of  the  city,  two  men  who  were  entrusted  with  a  payrool  of  a  manufactur- 
ing company.  Two  men  were  arrested  for  the  crime,  tried  under  due 
process  of  law,  and  found  guilty.   I  shall  not  attempt  to  undertake  any 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


analysis  of  that  case,  of  course.  But  they  were  found  guilty.  By  the 
skill  and  cunning  of  lawyers  for  the  defense,  however,  delays  and 
appeals,  based  on  exceptions  to  procedure,  and  in  devious  ways,  the 
execution  of  the  sentence  was  postponed  from  year  to  year.  The  radical 
element  of  the  community  organized  for  withstanding  the  execution 
of  the  law.  They  went  on  from  one  scheme  to  another,  growing,  it 
seemed  to  me,  more  desperate  in  their  determination  to  thwart  the 
law,  and  the  execution  of  the  sentence  in  pursuance  thereof,  and  this 
for  seven  years  from  the  time  the  crime  was  committed.  Millions  in 
the  United  States,  aided  and  abetted  by  some  of  the  foremost  newspapers 
of  the  land,  begged  and  pleaded  for  a  mitigation  of  the  sentence  pro-  * 
nounced  by  the  court.  Fortunately,  as  I  view  it — fortunately  for  the 
stability  of  the  administration  of  the  law — the  state  of  Massachusetts 
withstood  all  these  appeals,  and  at  last  the  law  was  vindicated,  not- 
withstanding its  long  delay.  I  was  struck  myself  with  the  splendid 
answer  that  Governor  Fuller  made  to  the  dramatic  appeal  of  the  wife 
and  the  sister  respectively  of  these  two  condemned  men.  His  answer 
was,  and  I  believe  it  will  become  historic : 

"I  am  sorry.   My  duties  are  outlined  by  the  law." 

Governor  Fuller  refused  to  interfere  with  the  final  execution  of 
these  sentenced  men. 

We  have  in  this  case  an  illustration  of  one  of  the  great  defects  of 
administration  of  law  in  the  United  States,  that  is,  "the  law's  delay," 
and  the  uncertainty  of  punishment.  Let  that  thing  continue,  and  crimin- 
als will  mock  the  law. 

A  touch  of  divine  wisdom  comes  into  this  question  from  the  distant 
past.  Solomon  left  on  record  this  remarkable  statement:  "Because 
sentence  against  an  evil  work  is  not  executed  speedily,  therefore  the 
heart  of  the  sons  of  men  is  fully  set  in  them  to  do  evil."  Eccl.  8 :11.  The 
whole  consensus  of  legal  opinion  upon  this  subject  is  to  the  effect  that  the 
uncertainty  of  the  execution  of  the  penalty  encourages  desperate  men 
in  crime. 

If  it  were  in  harmony  with  the  feelings  of  the  brethren — and  I 
know  nothing  of  what  their  feelings  are  on  this  subject — it  seems  to  me 
that  we  could  with  propriety  voice  the  sentiments  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  in  this  conference  by  a  proper  reso- 
lution making  known  this  our  great  principle,  announcing  our  convic- 
tion of  duty  in  the  sustaining  of  the  law,  by  publishing  this  Article  of  our 
faith  in  such  a  resolution.  It  would  be  a  proper  occasion,  in  the  face  of 
these  increasing  crime  waves,  to  let  our  country  know  where  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  stands  upon  this  question. 

President  Grant,  I  beg  to  venture  one  more  thing,  even  if  I  tres- 
pass a  little  on  your  time.  I  cannot  leave  this  subject  without  calling 
attention  to  an  important  declaration  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  inci- 
dentally referred  to  by  some  of  the  brethren  in  their  remarks  this  ' 
morning.  They  are  the  words  of  the  Prophet  Moroni.  Hearken  unto 
this,  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  would  like  to  see  this,  too,  coupled  with  the 
resolution  to  which  I  have  referred,  as  the  message  of  the  American 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS  23 

volume  of  scripture  to  the  great  Gentile  nation  that  now  is  in  control 
of  this  land,  the  U.  S.,  and  has  great  influence  throughout  the  whole 
continent : 

"And  he  [God!  had  swSrn  in  his  wrath  unto  the  brother  of  Jared,  that 
whoso  should  possess  this  land  of  promise,  from  that  time  henceforth  and  forever, 
should  serve  him,  the  true  and  only  God,  or  they  should  be  swept  off  when  the 
fulness  of  his  wrath  should  come  upon  them. 

And  now,  we  can  behold  the  decrees  of  God  concerning  this  land,  that  it 
is  a  land  of  promise;  and  whatsoever  nation  shall  possess  it  shall  serve  God,  or 
they  shall  be  swept  off  when  the  fulness  of  his  wrath  shall  come  upon  them. 
And  the  fulness  of  his  wrath  cometh  upon  them  when  they  are  ripened  in  iniquity. 

For  behold,  this  is  a  land  which  is  choice  above  all  other  lands;  wherefore 
he  that  doth  possess  it  shall  serve  God  or  shall  be  swept  off;  for  it  is  the 
everlasting  decree  of  God.  And  it  is  not  until  the  fulness  of  iniquity  among 
the  children  of  the  land,  that  they  are  swept  off." 

Now,  mark  you :' 

"And  this  cometh  unto  you,  O  ye  Gentiles,  that  ye  may  know  the  decrees 
of  God — that  ye  may  repent,  and  not  "continue  in  your  iniquities  until  the  fulness 
come,  that  ye  may  not  bring  down  the  fulness  of  the  wrath  of  God  upon  you  as 
the  inhabitants  of  the  land  have  hitherto  done."  (Ether  2:9-12). 

Only  three  weeks  ago,  about  now,  I  had  the  pleasure  of  standing 
upon  the  summit  of  the  Hill  Cumorah  in  company  with  President 
Grant.  Being  there  upon  that  height  of  land,  which  so  splendidly 
commands  a  view  of  the  whole  surrounding  country,  I  could  not  refrain 
from  recalling  the  time  when  Moroni  stood  upon  the  crown  of  that 
hill  with  the  evidence  of  the  ruins  of  the  civilization  of  his  people 
about  him.  And  this  warning,  written  in  the  Book  of  Ether,  let  me  say, 
in  closing,  comes  from  the  prophet  of  God  who  was  also  the  historian  of 
the  great  Jaredite  nation,  by  abridging  and  translating  their  history  into 
the  Nephrite  language.  This  warning  comes,  then,  from  the  historian  of 
one  civilization  that  had  perished  about  the  Hill  Cumorah ;  it  came  also 
from  the  same  man  who  was  a  witness  of  the  destruction  of  the  civiliza- 
tion of  his  own  people  at  the  same  place.  I  hold  that  he  was  com- 
petent to  speak  upon  this  question,  and  it  is  most  fitting,  and 
is  one  of  the  evidences  of  inspiration,  in  this  Book,  that  one 
so  competent  to  speak  in  warning  should  be  chosen  to  be  God's 
mouthpiece  in  warning  this  great  Gentile  nation,  holding  dominion 
over  the  land  in  our  day,  to  beware  of  their  course  lest  they,  too,  forfeit 
their  rights  to  the  pride  of  place  they  occupy  among  the  nations  of  the 
earth.  For  great  as  our  nation  is,  it  is  not  above  the  powers  of  destruc- 
tion if  it  observes  not  the  conditions  upon  which  it  may  hold  its  position 
upon  this  land. 

May  the  blessing  of  God  so  come  to  the  Gentiles  that  they  shall  not 
share  the  fate  of  the  nations  that  have  preceded  them,  is  my  earnest 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "The  Doxology." 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Elmer  E.  Taylor,  president 
of  the  Young  stake  of  Zion. 

The  meeting  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Promptly  at  2  o'clock  p.  m.,  President  Heber  J.  Grant  opened 
the  meeting  by  announcing  that  the  choir  and  congregation  would  sing 
the  hymn,  "Do  what  is  right." 

After  the  singing  the  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  W. 
Aird  McDonald,  president  of  the  San  Francisco  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "For  the  strength  of  the  hills  we 
bless  thee." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE  RELEASED  AND  ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

APPOINTED 

In  announcing  the  changes  that  have  taken  place  during  the  last 
six  months  I  overlooked  a  most  important  change ;  namely,  Brother 
James  E.  Talmage,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  has  been  honorably 
released,  with  his  good  wife,  to  return  home,  from  presiding  over  the 
European  mission,  and  Brother  John  A.  Widtsoe  and  his  wife  will 
succeed  them  in  presiding  over  the  mission  and  the  Relief  Society  in 
that  great  mission.  We  will  now  hear  from  Brother  John  A.  Widtsoe. 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  President  Grant  has  announced  the  call 
which  has  come  to  me,  and  I  wish  to  say  that  it  always  has  been  a  great 
privilege  to  me  to  serve  in  the  work  of  the  Master.  I  am  glad  to  obey 
the  request  that  has  been  made  of  me  and  shall  go  forth,  with  mine,  to 
do  the  best  we  can  in  behalf  of  this  high  and  holy  cause.  Like  every 
other  elder  in  Israel,  called  to  serve,  I  feel  humble  and  incapable,  of 
my  own  strength,  to  accomplish  the  work  that  lies  before  me ;  but  I  have, 
faith,  I  may  say  absolute  faith,  in  the  inspiration  that  guides  this  Church 
and  kingdom,  and  I  know  that,  throughout  the  ages,  the  Lord  has  made 
use  of  the  weak  things  of  the  earth  to  accomplish  mighty  purposes. 
With  that  faith  I  go  forth  gladly  at  the  request  and  call,  and  under  the 
authority,  of  those  who  preside  in  Zion,  with  the  prayer  in  my  heart 
that  good  may  come  of  the  action  taken. 

OUR  OBLIGATION  TO  PREACH  THE  GOSPEL 

I  recognize,  with  Elder  McKay,  who  spoke  briefly  oh  the  subject 
this  morning,  that  we  are  under  obligation  to  preach  the  gospel  to  all 
the  world.  Every  person  must  hear  the  truth ;  every  honest  heart  must 
be  warned.  It  is  our  bounden  duty,  from  which  we  may  not  and  cannot 
escape,  to  do  this  work.  Throughout  the  world  there  are  hosts  of 
honest  hearts  who  love  and  seek  the  truth,  but  who  are  so  hedged  about 
by  the  traditions  of  their  fathers  and  by  the  conditions  of  their  lives, 
that  they  find  it  difficult  to  recognize  the  truth  when  it  is  placed  before 
them.   It  is  not  only  a  privilege  to  attempt  to  break  down  this  barrier 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


25 


which  stands  between  truth  and  untruth,  but  it  is  also  a  solemn  obliga- 
tion and  a  heavy  responsibility.  Many  years  ago  in  the  days  of  my  early 
boyhood  I  came  out  of  the  European  countries,  into  this  blessed  land, 
blessed  above  all  other  lands,  to  live  here.  As  my  memory  goes  back 
to  my  mother  country,  and  later  to  the  days  I  spent  in  the  European 
countries  in  my  early  manhood,  as  a  student,  I  feel  that  there  are  in 
those  countries  a  very  great  number,  perhaps  untold  hosts  of  men  and 
women,  children  of  God,  honest  souls,  whom  we  may  reach  if  the  Lord 
will  but  assist  us  in  our  labors. 

GOD  OVERRULES  ALL  THINGS  FOR  HIS  PURPOSES 

I  was  impressed  this  morning  by  the  remarks  made  by  President 
Ivins,  that  throughout  all  the  ages  of  history  the  hand  of  God  has  over- 
ruled the  actions  of  mankind,  that  nothing  is  done  except  as  the  Lord 
may  use  it  for  the  accomplishment  of  his  mighty  purposes.  No  truth 
has  become  more  living  in  my  soul  throughout  my  life  than  this.  I  have 
little  belief  in  chance,  little  belief  that  things  happen  just  because  we, 
often  stupid  people,  do  certain  work  in  our  blindness.  The  things  accom- 
plished by  humanity  become  in  the  end  God's  accomplishments,  as  he 
makes  use  of  them  in  working  out  his  infinite  purposes.  So,  with  respect 
to  this  great  missionary  activity  to  which  we  have  devoted  so  much 
of  our  strength  from  the  beginning  of  this  dispensation,  I  cannot  help 
but  believe  that  the  mighty  changes  that  have  come  in  this  latest  day 
of  civilization,  the  vast  physical,  economic  and  social  changes,  have  all 
been  brought  about  through  the  goodness  of  the  Lord  for  the  accomplish- 
ment of  his  latter-day  work.  The  printing  press  came  into  existence, 
and  by  it  the  Word  of  God  has  been  brought  to  all  people.  Then  in  this 
day,  when  the  Lord  has  restored  the  gifts  and  blessings  of  the  gospel 
and  the  organization  of  the  Church,  have  come  other  marvelous  means 
by  which  we  may  speak  the  eternal  truth  in  our  keeping  to  all  the  world. 
The  steamship  came'that  we  might  carry  the  truth  from  continent  to  con- 
tinent, across  the  great  oc'eans ;  the  railway  that  we  might  deliver  the 
sarne  everlasting  truth  to  every  part  of  every  land ;  the  telephone  and 
the  telegraph,  and  now  the  radio,  that  we  might  spread,  the  truth  of 
the  gospel  over  all  the  world.  In  time  we  shall  be  able  to  utilize  all 
these  agencies  to  bear  our  witness  to  the  peoples  of  the  world,  that  we 
may  stand  free  from  blame  before  our  Maker  in  the  last  great  day. 

THE  SPIRIT  OF  GOD  THE  STRENGTH  OF  ZION 

The  spirit  of  God  is  upon  the  face  of  the  earth ;  it  enters  the  hearts 
of  men.  That  spirit  tempers  human  acts,  and  impels  humanity  to  actions 
of  righteousness.  That  same  spirit  serves  as  a  powerful  preparatory 
agent  for  us  in  our  gospel  labors.  In  fact,  the  most  important  thing 
for  every  person  engaged  in  this  great  latter-day  work  is  that  we  do 
rely  upon  the  assistance  of  the  Spirit  of  God.  No  man  can  safely  stand 
in  his  own  strength  in  the  holy  labor  assigned  to  us,  but  we  must  stand 
before  our  daily  duty  with  the  knowledge  that  the  Spirit  of  God  is  within 
our  reach  to  assist  us,  to  bless  us  and  to  carry  us  on  in  our  labors, 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


OBEDIENCE  TO  THE  GOSPEL  WILL  SOLVE  ALL  DIFFICULTIES 

We  were  all  deeply  impressed  this  morning  by  the  message  of 
President  Grant  and  of  those  who  elaborated  the  thoughts  in  his  opening 
address.  This  is  indeed  a  day  of  wonderful  blessings  for  humanity, 
but  correspondingly  great  temptations.  When  much  light  is  given, 
the  contrasting  darkness  is  also  deep ;  where  there  are  our  present  im- 
measurable opportunities  for  service,  there  are  also  temptations  to  do 
evil  such  as  never  before  has  been  known.  This  condition  has  existed 
in  all  ages.  The  battle  between  righteousness  and  wickedness  has  always 
been  waged  actively.  It  is  our  duty,  our  business  as  a  chosen  people, 
to  teach  righteousness  and  truth  forever  and  forever  to  the  world  until 
the  end  shall  come.  When  we  teach  righteousness,  the  key  to  our  con- 
quest of  evil  will  be  the  application  of  the  few  simple  principles  that 
constitute  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  gospel  is  not  a  compli- 
cated system,  but  is  simple  and  easily  understood.  It  may  be  brought 
into  the  hearts  of  men ;  it  may  be  used  in  their  daily  lives ;  and  if  we 
use  the  simple  principles  of  the  gospel  in  fighting  wickedness  and  in 
establishing  righteousness,  our  course  will  be  well  set  and  our  success 
will  be  fairly  promised. 

INTERNAL  EVIDENCE  OF  THE  TRUTH  OF  "MORMONISM"  MOST  CONVINCING 

During  the  last  few  weeks  I  have  been  reading,  with  my  brethren 
and  sisters  throughout  the  Church,  the  glorious  book  of  doctrine  known 
as  the  Book  of  Mormon,  which  came  into  the  hands  of  the  Prophet  one 
hundred  years  ago.  In  that  book  we  find  over  and  over  a  repetition  of 
the  methods  by  which  wickedness  may  be  overcome ;  for  throughout 
that  whole  book  runs  the  great  message  that,  in  the  words  of  Alma, 
wickedness  or  sin  is  never  happiness.  The  beginning  of  our  teaching 
to  those  who  tend  to  depart  from  righteousness  is  that  out  of 
unrighteousnass  man  may  never  win  happiness,  and  happiness  is  the 
most  fundamental  and  the  choicest  desire  of  humanity. 

In  my  reading  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  I  am  always  reminded  that 
the  witness  of  the  truth  of  this  work — restored  through  the  instrumen- 
tality of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith — lies  within  the  \vork  itself.  One 
does  not  have  to  go  into  external  places  for  proof,  since  within  the 
work  itself,  within  its  doctrines  and  organization  lies  the  most  convinc- 
ing witness  of  the  truth  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  restored  by 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  The  Book  of  Mormon  itself,  I  have  no 
doubt,  within  the  next  few  years  will  be  corroborated  by  all  manner 
of  discoveries.  Men  are  digging  in  the  earth ;  things  are  found  that 
we  did  not  dream  of  a  few  years  ago.  A  man  voiced  the  opinion  a 
few  days  ago — a  visiting  Englishman — that  every  new  discovery  in 
American  archaeology  tends  to  confirm  the  truth  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. We  shall  use  such  finds  and  discoveries  for  the  establishment  in 
the  hearts  of  seekers  after  truth,  of  the  correctness  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  Yet,  within  that  book  itself  there  lies  in  the  history  it  tells,  in 
the  doctrines  it  sets  forth,  and  in  the  pictures  that  it  paints,  the  most 
convincing  evidence  of  its  truth.    I  have  always  felt  that  the  best  ap- 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


27 


proach  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  through  the  study  of  the  internal 
evidences,  found  within  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  the  Book  of 
Mormon. 

ETERNAL  VALUE  OF  THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON 

There  are  only  two  kinds  of  books  in  the  world.  First,  the  kind 
that  lasts  for  a  -day,  published  by  the  tens  of  thousands,  but  have  only 
a  momentary  existence,  then  pass  away.  The  other  kind  of  books  are 
few  in  number,  written  and  produced  under  the  inspiration  of  divine 
power;  they  live  on  throughout  the  ages.  They  are  the  books  that 
contain  principles  of  eternal  truth";  the  doctrines  that  live  and  last,  that 
satisfy  the  needs  of  humanity  irrespective  of  time  and  age.  They  become 
the  permanent  possession  of  mankind  and  shape  the  destinies  of  man- 
kind. In  the  Book  of  Mormon  we  have  just  such  a  book,  one  which 
contains  those  eternal,  true  principles,  that  may  be  read  upon  all  occa- 
sions, in  all  emergencies  and  in  all  ages.  It  belongs  with  the  Bible  to 
the  class  of  everlasting  writings.  The  religious  classics  of  the  world 
have  survived  the  centuries,  and  have  influenced  the  destinies  of  man- 
kind, because  they  contain  perhaps  a  grain  here  and  a  grain  there  of 
such  eternal  truth.  The  Book  of  Mormon  does  not  deal  with  trivial 
things, — the  battles  and  contests,  the  conquests  of  the  enemy  and  the 
treaties  made,  the  many  difficulties  of  history,  form  merely  a  back- 
ground against  which  the  principles  that  really  make  the  book  are  illus- 
trated. The  teachings  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  appear  against  a  narrative 
of  historical  events,  but  the  events  are  of  little  consequence  in  comparison 
with  the  lessons  that  are  taught  for  man's  guidance  in  any  day. 

KEYS  TO  SOLVE  OUR  PRESENT  PROBLEMS 

Keys  to  the  solution  of  the  difficult  problems  that  were  dis- 
cussed this  morning — none  more  difficult  in  the  course  of  history —  - 
are  found  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  in  a  few  simple  teachings  that  are  1 
presented  over  and  over  again.  First,  there  is  constant  teaching  against 
atheism  and  all  unbelief,  and  for  belief  in  the  existence  of  God  and  his 
son  Jesus  Christ,  and-  that  a  definite  plan  has  been  proposed  by  God  our 
heavenly  Father,  for  the  salvation  of  his  children.  I  am  not  so  certain 
but  that  today  the  most  dangerous  enemy  to  truth  is  the  feeling  on  the 
part  of  some  men  that  they  must  dedicate  their  strength  to  destroy  faith 
in  God.  Within  the  last  two  years,  one  of  the  great  states  of  the  Union 
has  authorized  by  law  the  formation  of  an  association  for  the  advance- 
ment of  atheism,  an  organization  apparently  supplied  with  ample  funds, 
formed  for  the  purpose  of  proving  to  the  American  nation  that  there 
is  no  God.  We  cannot  solve  our  social  or  economic  problems  except 
upon  the  basis  of  faith  in  the  existence  of  God  and  man's  relationship 
to  his  Father  in  heaven.  Therefore,  we  do  not  hesitate,  as  a  people, 
to  teach  all  the  world  faith  in  God,  which  by  this  time  should  be  so 
much  a  part  of  man  as  the  blood  and  bone  and  marrow  of  his  physical 
organism.  Out  of  the  pages  of  Nephite  days  comes  also  the  lesson 
that  men  dwindle  in  unbelief  and  become  wicked  and  practice  evil  if 
they  allow  themselves  to  become  unequal  in  their  social  and  economic 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

relationships.  This  is  a  land  of  liberty,  yet  we  are  beginning,  though  we 
are  founded  upon  the  doctrine  of  equality,  to  have  classes  of  the  wealthy, 
the  learned,  the  powerful,  and  of  those  who  have  neither  power  nor 
wealth  nor  station.  This  Church  teaches  the  equality  of  humanity,  that 
that  Lord,  loves  all  his  children  equally,  if  they  but  do  his  will ;  that  he 
reaches  out  for  us  all,  and  that  the  glorious  destiny  of  a  place  near  him  is 
for  all  if  we  only  make  use  of  that  which  he  has  offered  us.  In  this 
marvelous  book  there  is  a  third  warning,  already  discussed  here.  When 
men  begin  to  defy  the  laws  of  the  land  and  the  laws  of  God — usually 
two  aspects  of  the  same  inclination — when  lawlessness  grows  and  in- 
creases, then  men  and  women  begin  to  depart  from  the  truth.  Some 
will  call  themselves  better  than  others  in  their  own  estimation ;  their 
faith  in  God  diminishes;  soon  they  are  overwhelmed  by  the  difficulties 
that  of  necessity  come  to  the  disobedient,. and  ultimately  they  will  receive 
the  terrible  punishment  quoted  this  morning  by  Brother  Roberts  from 
the  Book  of  Mormon. 

TESTIMONY 

I  bear  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  know  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  true.  It  is  dear  to  me.  It  has  helped  me  in 
times  of  joy  and  in  times  of  sorrow.  It  has  been  like  a  great  beacon  light 
to  guide  me  in  all  the  affairs  of  my  life,  not  merely  in  the  Church,  but 
in  those  beyond  the  Church,  in  matters  of  State  and  of  private  concern. 
I  have  found  it  possible  to  use  the  simple  principles  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  for  my  upbuilding  and  strengthening,  for  bringing 
me  into  closer  communion  with  the  great  unseen  universe  which,  after 
all,  is  the  great  concern  of  everlasting  life.  I  am  grateful  for  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  I  am  always  thankful  that  missionaries  were  sent  into 
my  native  land;  grateful  that  my  mother,  throbbing  with  faith,  had 
courage  to  receive  the  gospel  and  go  into  the  waters  of  baptism,  to 
leave  her  home  and  friends  and  relatives,  and  all  her  loved  ones.  I 
am  grateful  for  the  thousands  of  Latter-day  Saints  who  have  done 
likewise,  who,  either  in  person  or  by  their  children,  make  up  this  vast 
congregation.  We  are  children  of  faithful  and  courageous  parents, 
who  have  opened  the  door  to  us,  and  made  clear  to  us  the  joy  oif  ac- 
cepting and  living  the  eternal  truth  of  God.  This  Church  is  the  bearer 
of  truth.  God  bless  us,  and  make  us  steadfast  in  the  truth.  May  we 
walk  always  according  to  our  best  light  before  our  Father  in  heaven, 
I  pray,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

In  calling  upon  the  Presidents  of  our  United  States  missions,  we 
would  be  very  pleased  to  have  them  speak  briefly  and  give  us  a  little 
account  of  the  condition  of  their  missions.  Inasmuch  as  we  have  over 
two  thousand  of  our  people  in  the  mission  field  I  am  sure  the  Saints 
would  be  deeply  interested  in  knowing  the  condition  of  the  missions. 
We  will  ask  Brother  Rey  L.  Pratt  to  be  the  first  mission  president  to 
speak ; 


i 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


29 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT  " 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

I  am  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  he  in  attendance  at  this 
conference,  and  to  report  the  condition  of  the  mission  over  which  I 
have  "been  called  to  preside.  In  the  first  place,'  I  am  happy  to  say  to 
the  fathers  and  mothers  of  the  missionaries  in  the  Mexican  mission 
that  they  are  all  enjoying  at  the  present  time  good  health;  they  are 
in  splendid  spirits.  They  manifest  a  determination  to  fill  their  mission 
in  honor  and  to  reach  with  their  testimonies  and  teachings  as  many  of 
our  Father's  children  as  lie   in  their  power. 

You,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  undoubtedly  are  acquainted  with 
the  fact  that  due  to  the  present  religious  controversy  in  Mexico,  and 
existing  laws,  it  is  impossible  for  our  ministers  or  missionaries  who 
are  of  foreign  birth,  that  is,  not  Mexican  citizens,  to  labor  and  officiate 
within  the  Republic  of  Mexico.  Consequently  we  have  been  obliged 
to  withdraw  from  that  land  all  of  our  active  missionaries  from  Zion. 
We  are  happy,  however,  in  the  fact  that  our  local  priesthood  in  some 
twenty  odd  branches  in  the  Republic  of  Mexico  are  doing  all  that  is 
possible  to  maintain  the  organizations  of  the  branches,  and  to  continue 
the  holding  of  meetings  and  the  administration  of  the  gospel  among 
that  people.  Notwithstanding  the  adverse  circumstances  existing  in  that 
country  at  this  time,  and  the  fact  that  so  many  missionaries,  about  60 
per  cent  of  the  force  that  we  ordinarily  have,  have  been  withdrawn, 
the  people  are  doing  remarkably  well.  They  are  faithful  in  attendance 
at  meetings,  and  in  payment  of  tithing.  We  are  in  constant  communi- 
cation with  them  by  letter,  and  their  leaders  manifest  to  us  not  only  a 
belief  in  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  but  a  knowledge  that  these  prin- 
ciples are  true.  They  pray  for  the  return  of  the  missionaries  to  that 
land,  and  a  continuation  of  the  preaching  of  the  gospel  among  their 
people. ' 

It  may  be  a  revelation  to  some  of  you  to  know  that  there  are  great 
communities  of  Lamanite  people  of  Mexican  nationality,  residing  in 
the  large  cities  of  the  south  and  southwestern  parts  of  our  country. 
In  the  city  of  Los  Angeles  alone  it  is  estimated  that  there  are  between 
fifty  and  seventy-five  thousand  Mexican  people  living  in  sections  of 
the  city  pretty  much  by  themselves.  In  that  city  we  have  a  remarkable 
work  started  and  are  making  great  progress.  Your  boys  and  ,girls  who 
are  down  there  in  that  mission  are  happy  to  he  engaged  in  that  work 
and  find  no  difficulty  in  confining  their  labors  to  a  people  who  speak 
a  foreign  language.  They  have  acquired  the  language  with  remarkable 
success,  and  success  is  attending  their  labors.  The  same  might  be 
said  in  relation  to  other  cities  along  the  border.  We  have  missionaries 
-  in  Mesa,  Arizona,  in  Ray  and  other  places  around  the  great  mining 
parts  of  Arizona.  We  have  missionaries  in  Tucson ;  we  have  mis- 
sionaries in  Bisbee,  and  Douglas,  also  in  Albuquerque  and  southern 
Colorado.  They  are  doing  a  splendid  work  in  El  Paso,  Texas.  We  have 
missionaries  in  Del  Rio,  San  Antonio,  Houston,  Corpus  Christi,  Eagle 
Pass,  Laredo,  and  Brownsville,  all  in  Texas.    At  a  recent  conference 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


held  in  the  southeastern  part  of  our  mission  at  Laredo,  at  which  Elder  * 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  of  the  Council  of  Twelve,  was  present,  we 
were  able  to  preach  to  a  congregation  of  some  two  hundred  and  twenty 
people  at  some  of  our  sessions.  I  remember  to  have  gone  to  the  same 
city  only  a  few  years  ago,  at  which  time  I  surveyed  the  situation,  and 
there  was  not  so  much  as  one  who  had  any  sympathy  for  us  within 
the  confines  of  that  city  or  surrounding  country.  I  am  proud  to  be 
identified  with  the  missionary  work  there.  I  am  proud  of  the  young 
men  and  the  young  women  who  comprise  our  missionary  force.  I 
love  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  the  gospel 
is  true. 

And,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  I  stand  before  you  this  after- 
noon, I  make  a  plea  for  tolerance  for  the  Lamanite  people;  they  are 
our  Father's  covenant  children.  I  have  learned  it  more  intimately  than 
I  ever  knew  it  before,  in  the  last  twenty-one  years  of  consecutive  mis- 
sionary service  among  them.  I  was  acquainted  with  them  years  before 
that,  and,  notwithstanding  all  that  is  said  to  the  contrary  in  the  press 
and  "by  people  who  might  think  very  lightly  before  they  speak,  I  have 
never  been  injured  at  their  hands,  nor  have  any  of  your  boys  or 
girls  been  injured  at  their  hands.  And  although  it  may  seem  para- 
doxical to  send  a  lady  missionary  among  people  who  are  so  maligned, 
and  expect  her  to  get  away  unhurt,  the  chivalry  of  the  Indians,  spoken 
of  by  President  Ivins  this  morning,  is  a  safeguard  even  to  your  daugh- 
ters, and  you  need  not  fear  for  them  even  among  the  people  of  Mexico 
or  the  Lamanite  people.  There  are  underlying  reasons  why  they  fight, 
and  I  want  to  tell  you  that  if  I  were  suffering  as  they  have  suffered 
for  four  hundred  years,  I  would  be  ashamed  if  I  did  not  fight  as  they 
fight.  There  is  wrong,  of  course,  in  the  country,  and  it  would  take 
a  long  time  to  explain  it  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  people  as  I  under- 
stand it.  I  pray  God  that  he  will  right  the  wrongs  of  that  oppressed 
people,  and  that  freedom  and  liberty  and  right  and  justice  may  come 
to  them.  I  bespeak  for  them  your  sympathy  and  your  love.  Brethren 
and  sisters,  in  the  name  of  consistency,  let  us  give  them  credit  for  being 
what  they  are,  because  through  their  fathers  we  truly  have  this  great 
volume  of  scripture,  this  New  Witness  for  God,  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
and  it  is  replete  with  promises  to  them  of  a  redemption,  and  an  uplift 
from  the  conditions  under  which  they  labor.  I  lament,  perhaps  as 
much  as  anyone,  the  existing  conditions  in  the  Republic  of  Mexico, 
and  all  I  can  do  is  to'  pray  that  right  will  triumph.  I  firmly  believe 
that  it  will,  and  I  wish  that  we  could  extend  to  them  sympathy  and 
the  right  kind  of  help  which  is  not  always  condemnation. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  see  the  right  and  to  do  it,  is  my  prayer, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  CHAS.  A.  CALLIS 

President  of  the  {southern  States  Mission 

Brethren  and  sisters:  When  Elder  David  O.  McKay  was  speak- 
ing this  morning  of  the  two  thousand  young  Lamanites  and  their  splen- 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


31 


did  mothers,  I  was  led  to  reflect  that  in  the  Southern  States  mission 
there  are  young  men  and  women  who  have  these  same  qualities,  and 
their  fathers  and  mothers  have  the  same  devotion,  and  give  the  same 
counsel  as  did  those  noble  Lamanite  mothers.  Today  our  elders  go  forth 
to  encounter  dangers  that  are  more  fatal,  in  a  way,  than  the  sword. 
These  mothers  in  Zion  are  giving  their  children  wonderful  and  soul- 
saving  counsel  that  enables  them  to  battle,  with  faith  and  in  the  might 
of  God,  the  evils  in  the  world. 

One  day  during  the  summer,  while  attending  a  conference  in  the 
most  southerly  part  of  the»mission,  I  offered  the  elders  a  week's  rest 
because  of  the  intense  heat.  I  was  a  little  surprised  at  the  unwelcome 
spirit  in  which  my  offer  was  received.  The  district  president  spoke 
up  and  said :  "Brother  Callis,  we  would  rather  keep  on  working.  We 
have  the  spirit  of  our  work,  and  are  afraid  that  we  would  lose  it  if 
we  took  a  vacation."  That  is  the  spirit  of  the  missionaries  in  the  South. 
Deeply  imbedded  in  their  hearts  is  the  glorious  truth  contained  in 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  that  when  ye  are  in  the  service  of  your  fellow- 
men,  ye  are  in  the  service  of  your  God. 

Through  the  kindness  of  the  First  Presidency  an  extensive  build- 
ing program  is  being  carried  on.  We  are  going  to  build  a  new  chapel 
for  the  Catawba  Indians.  Never  among  any  people  have  I  witnessed 
more  faith  than  among  these  people.  The  president  of  the  branch 
certainly  does  not  believe  in  race  suicide,  because  he  is  the  father  of 
twenty-one  children.  We  have  built  a  neat  little  chapel  for  the  Choc- 
taw Indians,  and  these  people  are  receiving  the  gospel  with  joy.  What 
a  wonderful  change  is  coming  over  the  spirit  of  the  people !  I  suppose 
you  will  be  inclined  to  wonder  at  the  statement  that  fully  10  per  cent 
of  the  missionaries  in  the  South — and  this  is  a  conservative  estimate — 
are  the  descendants  of  men  and  women  who  obeyed  the  gospel  in  the 
Southern  states  and  migrated  to  the  West.  This  is  one  proof  of  the 
vitality  of  "Mormonism." 

Only  a  few  weeks  ago  we  held  a  conference  up  in  the  mountains 
of  East  Tennessee.  There  were  twenty-three  members  of  the  Church, 
including  the  elders,  and  from  eight  hundred  to  a  thousand  people, 
non-members,  in  attendance  at  our  conference.  There  was  not  a  note 
of  discord — peace,  good  will,  tolerance,  prevailed.  For  this  change 
I  praise  the  Lord.  I  do  not  forget  the  labors  of  the  elders  in  the  early 
history  of  that  mission,  who  suffered  much  tribulation  to  establish 
the  foundation  upon  which  we  are  now  building. 

Consider  the  sterling  qualities  of  these  young  men.  It  has  been 
my  sad  duty  to  go  to  more  than  one  of  them  and  say:  "My  brother, 
I  have  received  the  sad  news  that  your  mother,  or  your  father,  is  dead." 
These  young  men  have  wept,  they  have  sorrowed,  but  the  noble  resolu- 
tion in  them  to  continue  in  their  mission  was  unshaken,  and  in  the 
strength  of  God  they  have  gone  ahead  with  their  missionary  labors.  1 
Fathers  and  mothers  have  said:  "Our  crops  are  a  partial  failure,  but 
we  are  willing  to  continue  to  sacrifice  to  keep  ontr  sons  in  the  mis- 
sion field."  Where  would  you  go  to  find  nobler  faith  than  this?  And 
this  faith  comes  from  a  belief  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the  other 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


standard  Church  works,  and  in  the  restored  gospel.  Surely  such  faith  as 
that  cannot  be  justly  characterized  as  a  base  faith.  I  want  to  say  to 
you  parents  that  God  will  bless  you  for  the  sacrifice  you  are  making 
to  keep  your  sons  and  your  daughters  in  the  mission  field.  It  is  sacred 
in  his  sight,  and  you  will  share  in  the  joy  and  the  glory  that  comes  to 
your  sons  and  daughters  through  bringing  souls  unto  God.  I  love  the 
missionaries.  It  is  an  inspiration  to  be  with  them.  I  love  their  parents, 
the  faith,  and  the  Church  which  is  the  mother  of  men,  for  producing 
these  fine  characters  and  instilling  in  their  hearts  that  unwavering 
faith  that  sends  them  into  the  mission  field  in  the  spirit  of  sacrifice 
and  service,  to  proclaim  the  everlasting  gospel  to  the  world. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  this  gospel  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation,  that  this  Church  is  built  upon  the  foundation  of  apos- 
tles and  prophets;  that  it  is  being  led  today  by  divine  revelation,  and 
that  these- young  men  and  young  women  in  the  mission  field  enjoy  the 
spirit  of  inspiration  to  help  them  in  the  districts  where  they  labor,  and 
God  is  with  them.  This  is  my  testimony,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

President  of  the  Central  States  Mission 

I  take  great  pleasure,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  reporting  to 
you  the  condition  of  the  Central  States,  as  far  as  our  missionary  work 
is  concerned.  I  think  no  father  or  mother  need  have  any  fear  con- 
cerning his  or  her  sons  or  daughters  who  are  engaged  in  this  labor, 
for  I  doubt  if  there  is  any  institution  of  learning  in  the  country  that 
will  broaden  and  develop  a  young  man  or  young  woman  more,  or  give 
them  an  experience  that  will  compare  with  that  obtained  in  the  mis- 
sion field. 

Our  missionaries  are  active ;  young  men  and  young  women,  going 
out  with  scarcely  any  experience,  get  ''right  into  the  work  with  as  much 
faith  as  you  could  expect  them  to  have.  My  testimony  to  you  is  that 
the  work  of  the  Lord  is  growing  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men, 
that  the  youth  of  Zion  are  not  weakening  by  any  means,  but  that  they 
are  growing  stronger.  We  have  some  missionaries  in  the  field  without 
money  and  some  with  money.  They  are  splendid  young  people  and  are 
not  afraid  of  work.  They  go  from  early  in  the  morning  until  late  at 
night.  :  We  do  not  have  to  urge  them,  but  sometimes  have  to  call  a 
halt,  especially  among  women  missionaries  who  are  so  interested  in 
their  labors  that  they  often  work  harder  than  their  strength  allows. 
But  after  all,  they  stand  the  test  and  seem  to  hold  up  their  part  of 
the  work  as  favorably  as  the  elders  do,  and  frequently  can  go  where 
an  elder  cannot  go.  They  have  many  conversations  among  their 
own  sex. 

Latter-day  Saints  are  found  in  every  nook  and  corner,  almost,  of 
the  Central  States  mission — from  Brownsville,  Texas,  to,  the  northern 
part  of  Missouri,  and  from  Louisiana  almost  to  El  Paso,  Texas — six 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BEN  N I  ON 


33 


states.  Little  organizations  are  found  almost  in  every  county,  and 
in  many  of  the  great  cities.  We  ask  the  elders  to  hold  meetings  once 
a  day  if  they  possibly  can,  and  that  no  night  shall  pass  without  their 
being  in  a  cottage  meeting,  if  possible,  or  in  a  street  meeting,  or  in 
some  of  the  halls  or  churches  of  that  mission.  Let  me  say  again  that 
nothing  finer  than  the  spirit  of  those  young  people  can  be  found  any- 
where in  the  world.  They  are  faithful  and  true  to  their  calling  every 
day.  They  are  not  concerned  with  temporal  matters,  consequently 
they  grow  rich  spiritually,  and  as  a  result  of  their  time  in  the  field, 
they  become  well  acquainted  with  the  gospel.  I  take  great  pleasure  in 
saying  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  there  has  not  come  to  me 
in  my  life  any  other  joy  or  pleasure  that  has  compared  with  this  mis- 
sionary labor.  ' , 

I  know  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  at  home  are  doing  a  great  work. 
Our  work  could  not  be  done  without  the  parents  who  sustain  us  in 
the  mission  field ;  unless  we  are  all  united  there  cannot  be  success. 
I  say  to  the  missionaries  frequently:  Brethren  and  sisters,  you. ought 
to  do  well,  every  father  and  mother,  ^brother  and  sister  and  little  child 
is  praying  for  you  daily,  that  you  may  be  successful  in  the  mission 
field,  that  the  Lord  will  preserve  you  and  that  you  may  be  able  to 
reach  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men. 

We  do  not  have  enoughj  missionaries.  There  are  thousands 
of  men  and  women  who  have  not  heard  the  gospel,  and  who 
will  never  :  hear  it  unless  we  are  able  to  reach  them  in  some 
other  way  than  by  the  present  method.  I  do  not  know  how 
it  can  be  done  unless  through  the  radio,  but  there  are  hundreds  and 
thousands  of  young  men  and  young  women  growing  to  manhood  and 
womanhood  in  the  Central  states,  who  have  never  seen  a  "Mormon" 
missionary.  A  way  to  reach  them  the  Lord  undoubtedly  will  arrange ;  I 
know  that  he  is  at  the  helm.  I  am  as  sure  as  that  I  stand  before  you 
today  that  our  Father  who  appeared  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
in  the  state  of  New  York,  in  that  Sacred  Grove,  and  introduced  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ,  has  never  been  very  far  away  from  the  Church,  and 
that  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  Living  God,  who  appeared  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  has  honored  this  Church  and  organized  the  destinies 
of  it,  and  speaks  through  its  leaders.  I  am  just  as  sure  of  that  as  I 
am  that  I  live.  I  want  to  go  on  record  before  the  world  in  my  testi- 
mony that  the  Lord  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  he  is  with  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  that  his  work  is 
growing  in  "the  earth  and  will  continue  to  grow  until  the  time  comes 
for  him  to  call  a  halt  and  say  enough.  No  one  knows  when  that  time 
will  be,  excepting  him  who  governs  and  rules  and  guides  the  destinies 
of  the  children  of  men  according  to  their  works.  We  have  friends  as 
well  as  enemies,  but  the  Church  does  have  many  friends  in  the  mis- 
sion field  among  those  who  are  not  members  of  it. 

We  have  had  the  opportunity  this  year  of  building  three  churches. 
President  Grant  was  in  pur  mission  a  short  time  ago  and  dedicated 
three  buildings  in  the  state  of  Missouri. 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


We  are  celebrating  at  Independence,  Missouri,  this  week,  the  cen- 
tennial of  that  city.  It  has  been  one  hundred  years  since  Independence 
was  made  a  village.  This  Church  is  taking  its  part  in  the  pageant, 
in  the  parade,  in  the  contributions,  in  the  printing  and  everything  that 
is  being  done.  We  have  been  accorded  all  that  is  due  us,  and  I  take 
great  pleasure  in'  saying  to  you  that  the  Church  has  many  friends  in 
that  section  of  the  country,  and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  moving  upon 
the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men,  and  his  work  will  be  accomplished 
in  his  own  due  time. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  us  that  we  may  honor  his  name  continu- 
ally. I  pray  for  those  who  are  not  of  us,  that  they  may  listen  to 
the  elders  whoi  happen  to  come  to  their  doors,  and  be  led  to  glorify 
the  Lord's  name  through  baptism  by  his  servants,  and  I  do  it  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

As  I  came  onto  the  grounds  to  attend  the  meeting  this  afternoon, 
I  met  about  a  half  dozen  missionaries  who  had  just  returned  from  the 
Northern  States  mission.  I  observed  them  as  they  stood  on  the  sidewalk, 
and  thought,  How  splendidly  these  young  fellows  have  developed  in  the 
mission  field.  They  are  a  clean-looking  set  of  fellows.  They  have 
done  a  remarkable  work  out  in  the  world.  Most  of  them  have  been 
district  presidents ;  and,  because  of  the  summer  work,  they  remained 
in  the  mission  field  longer  than  the  usual  time  in  order  that  they  might 
take  their  missionaries  out  into  the  country  and  show  them  the  ad- 
vantages of  traveling  without  purse  or  scrip,  and  placing  their  full 
reliance  in  God  the  eternal  Father.  I  am  grateful  for  the  mission, 
because  it  results  in  wonderful  progress  with  the  missionaries ;  and 
while  some  of  our  boys  and  girls  may  come  into  the  field  in  the  spirit 
of  adventure,  may  think  that  it  is  the  usual  thing  for  boys  and  girls  to 
do,  I  am  quite  certain  and  can  bear  testimony  that  they  are  not  very 
long  in  the  mission  field  before  they  realize  the  necessity  of  getting 
close  to  God  the  eternal  Father,  and  of  giving  service  in  the  great  cause 
to  which  they  have  been  called.  Our  missionaries  are  faithful,  and  they 
are  doing  a  good  \vork  in  traveling  among  the  people. 

We  have  just  finished  our  country  campaign,  and  the  missionaries 
have  returned  to  their  districts  for  the  winter  with  the  testimony  that 
God  has  been  with  them  and  has  blessed  them  wherever  they  have 
been.  I  sent  a  questionnaire  to  the  missionaries  to  be  answered  and 
returned  by  them.  One  of  the  questions  was :  "How  many  times  did 
you  have  to  sleep  out  because  of  not  receiving  entertainment  from  the 
people?"  It  is  remarkable  how  few  times  the  missionaries  have  had 
to  sleep  out  during'  the  country  campaign.  Their  testimony  has  been 
that  God  has  been  good  to  them,  and  they  came  back  with  joy  and 
happiness  in  their  hearts  because  of  God's  mercy  to  them. 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 


35 


The  missionaries,  on  their  return  home,  make  the  statement  that 
the  time  spent  on  a  mission  was  the  best  time  of  their  lives,  and  often 
the  younger  people  who  had  not  had  a  similar  experience  might  question 
the  statement.  But  if  they  should  have  the  same  experience  I  am  quite 
certain  they  would  come  back  with  the  same  testimony,  that  missionary 
life  has  been  the  best  time  of  their  lives.  They  do  not  mean  good  times, 
like  we  might  have  at  parties ;  they  do  not  mean  the  good  times  that  they 
might  have  at  school ;  they  do  not,  mean  that  it  has  been  a  happier  time 
than  the  very  happy  life  that  they  have  had  in  the  home,  which  is  the 
most  sacred  place  the  boy  and  girl  can  be ;  but  when  they  say  that  it  has 
been  the  happiest  time  of  their  lives  they  mean  that  they  have  been 
closer  to  God  the  eternal  Father  than  they  have  ever  been  before.  It 
is  because  of  service,  it  is  because  of  doing  things  for  God  and  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ  that  there  comes  into  their  souls  that  humility,  that  testi- 
mony, and  that  joy  that  is  superior  to  all  other  joys  that  can  come  into 
one's  life. 

We  are  very  grateful  to  have  in  the  Northern  states  mission  such 
a  splendid  group  of  students  as  are  attending  the  various  universities 
located  in  Chicago  and  the  surrounding  cities.  They  are  keeping  their 
faith.  We  are  proud  of  them  because  they  can  still  find  time— the 
majority  of  them — to  come  to  Church  and  partake  of  the  sacrament  and 
attend  the  Sabbath  school,  that  they  may  have  their  spirits  renewed  for 
the  studies  of  the  week.  They  are  a  wonderful  help  to  the  Church 
wherever  they  are,  because  of  the  strength  of  their  testimony  and  their 
desire  to  be  of  service  in  the  mission  field  while  they  are  attending 
school.  Our  boys  and  girls  who  are  in  the  Universities  have  things 
brought  to  their  attention  that  might  make  them  wonder  at  times,  or 
might  make  them  thing  deeper  and  cause  them  to  search  deeper  into  the 
religion  of  God  the  eternal  Father,  and  "Mormonism"  as  you  search 
into  it,  gives  an  answer  to  most  of  the  problems  that  come  to  the 
student  or  to  the  missionary.  When  they  encounter  a  problem  that 
cannot  yet  be  solved  to  their  satisfaction,  they  hold  on  to  the  faith 
of  their  fathers  and  their  mothers,  and  are  willing  to  serve  God  and 
wait  until  the  time  comes  when  the  question  can  be  answered  by  study 
and  by  the  revelations  of  God. 1 

We  are  happy  because  of  the  Saints  of  the  Northern  states  mission, 
because  of  their  faithfulness  and  devotion  to  God's  work.  They  are 
willing  to  go  out  on  the  street  corner  and  give  service  and  proclaim  the 
gospel.  I  am  sure  God  will  bless  them  because  of  their  devotion  and 
desire  to  be  of  service  in  his  great  work  in  the  mission  field. 

May  God  bless  this  great  work,  and  strengthen  the  missionaries  as 
they  go  out  into  the  field.  May  he  bring  them  home,  as  these  young 
fellows  to  whom  I  have  referred  have  been  brought  home,  clean  and 
fine,  and  above  all,  with  a  testimony  of  the  truthfulness  of  the  restored 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  is  my  prayer,  in  his  name.  Amen. 


- 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 

President  of  the  Western  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  It  is  a  privilege  to  be  present  on  this 
occasion  and  make  a  report  of  the  work  in  the  Western  states  mission. 
Conditions  in  all  of  the  missions  of  the  United  States  are  quite  similar, 
and  all  that  has  been  said  by  the  mission  presidents  who  have  spoken 
is  equally  true  of  the  missionaries  laboring  in  our  mission.  No  finer 
group  of  young  men  and  young  woman  can  be  found  anywhere  in  the 
world.  They  are  men  and  women  of  integrity  and  faith ;  loyal  and  true 
to  the  covenants  that  they  have  made  with  God,  undaunted  and  un- 
afraid they  carry  the  gospel  message  to  the  people,  manifesting  in  their 
lives  the  faith  which  has  come  to  them  through  their  obedience  to  the 
gospel  and  the  call  made  of  them  to  proclaim  the  message  of  salvation  to 
the  people  of  the  world.  The  burden  of  their  message  is  that  God  has 
spoken  again  to  the  world  through  a  modern  prophet.  They  have  testified 
that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  in  reality  the  Son  of  the  living  God, 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  They  have  borne  witness  to  the  divine  mis- 
sion of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  the  re-etsablishment  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  in  the  nineteenth  century.  We  affirm  that  Joseph  Smith 
came  in  the  hour  of  the  world's  greatest  need  and  was  the  instrument  in 
the  hands  of  God  of  restoring  to  the  world  the  authority  of  the  holy 
Priesthood  which  gave  to  men  the  right  to  act  in  the  name  of  God  and 
reveals  every  principle  and  ordinance  necessary  to  the  complete  salvation 
of  the  human  soul. 

We  have  laid  down  the  gauntlet  and  declared  that  God  is  no 
respector  of  persons,  that  all  men  who  repent  of  their  sins  and  yield 
obedience  to  the  ordinance  of  baptism  and  the  laying  on  of  hands  for 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  shall  know  of  the  doctrine  whether  it  is  of 
God  or  man.  Hundreds  have  accepted  the  challenge  and  bear  witness 
that  they  know  the  gospel,  as  we  teach  it,  is  true  and  the  very  power 
of  God  unto  salvation,  that  doubt  has  been  removed  from  their  souls  and 
a  peace  and  joy  they  have  never  known  before  have  come  into  their  lives 
I  am  happy  to  report  that  all  of  the  missionaries  without  exception  are 
rendering  meritorious  service. 

The  attitude  of  the  people  in  the  Western  states  mission  towards 
our  work  is  very  much  changed  since  first  I  went  into  that  district 
to  labor  as  a  missionary — we  are  received  in  many  places  with  open 
arms  where  a  few  years  ago  we  could  not  get  a  hearing.  Elders  have  been 
accorded  the  privileges  of  preaching  in  many  churches  and  invitations 
have  been  extended  to  present  our  -message  before  some  of  the/  theological 
schools  of  our  district.  The  press  has  been  very  friendly  and  accorded 
us  much  space  in  advertising  our  work.  Many  of  the  missionaries  have 
traveled  in  the  country  districts  without  purse  or  scrip  and  have  reported 
some  wonderful  and  unusual  experiences.  I  would  relate  just  one 
circumstance:  two  of  the  elders  laboring  in  the  Denver  district  reported 
that  while  traveling  without  purse  or  scrip  about  one  hundred  miles  east 
of  the  city,  they  sought  entertainment  for  the  night  at  quite  a  late 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 


37 


hour.  They  were  invited  into  a  home.  The  man  and  his  wife  were  the 
only  members  of  the  family  and  they  had  but  one  bed.  These  good 
people  insisted  that  the  elders  should  sleep  in  the  bed  while  they  slept 
upon  the  floor.  The  man  who  had  thus  entertained  them  was  a  pro- 
testant  minister.  He  showed  a  real  Christian  spirit.  Such  entertainment 
is  not  usually  accorded  our  missionaries.  I  am  very  grateful  for  the 
measure  of  success  that  is  attending  our  efforts.  The  missionaries  are 
imbued  with  the  spirit  of  their  work.  They  love  it,  and  their  greatest 
desire  is  that  the  people  of  the  world  might  be  impressed  by  their 
message. 

It  is  true  that  some  of  our  missionaries  are  illy  prepared  when  they 
come  into  ithe  missions,  but  it  requires  only  a,  short  time  until  they 
are  able  to  present  the  gospel  message  to  all  with  whom  they  come 
in  contact. 

I  was  impressed  with  the  counsel  given  by  the  President  this 
morning  advising  the  (Saints  to  search  the  scriptures,  to  read  the  Bible, 
The  Book  of  Mormon,  and  become  familiar  with  the  revelations  given 
to  the  Church  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  If  this  is  done  in 
the  homes,  our  missionaries  will  be  better  prepared  to  give  a  reason 
for  'the  "hope  that  is  within  them  when  they  arrive  in  the  mission. 

We  are  making  some  progress  in  providing  comfortable  places  for 
our  members  in  which  to  worship.  At  the  present  time  we  are  building 
two  meetinghouses  and  one  recreation  hall.  We  have  also  purchased 
one  chapel  this  year. 

I  feel  that  I  need  not  say  more.  I  am  happy  to  be  engaged  in  this 
work.  I  know  that  it  is  of  God.  I  bear  testimony  to  its  truth,  and 
the  influence  that  it  is  having  upon  the  lives  of  men  and  women  in  the 
world  is  for  good.  God  grant  unto  us  the  spirit  of  this  work,  that  we 
may  go  forward  in  the  performance  of  every  duty  that  he  requires  at 
our  hands,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  G.  ALLRED 

President  of  the  Northcentral  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  I  prize  highly  my  standing  among  thi9 
people.  I  would  rather  have  my  standing  in  this  Church  than  all  the  gold 
of  Ophir.  I  would  rather  be  where  I  am  now,  laboring  in  the  ministry 
of  our  Lord,  than  in  any  other  place  that  I  kniow  of.  To  labor  with 
these  young  men  and  young  women,  to  meet  them  in  their  weakness, 
when  they  arrive  in  the  field,  and  then  to  watch  them  grow  and  in- 
crease in  their  power,  is  an  inspiration  that  you  cannot  get  anywhere 
else  in  the  world.  They  undergo  a  wonderful  transformation  and  a 
steady,  constant  growth.  Some  of  the  young  men  and  young  women 
who  come  into  the  field  do  not  have  a  testimony  of  the  gospel,  but 
within  a  few  short  months  they  stand  before  the  congregations  of  the 
world  and  bear  witness,  out  of  the  abundance  of  their  hearts,  that  they 
know  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  trn§. 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Not  so  long  ago  at  the  close  of  one  of  our  conferences,  a  young 
lady  missionary  only  nineteen  years  of  age  who  had  just  arrived  in 
the  field  came  back  into  the  building  as  I  left  it.  I  found  her  weeping, 
and  asked  her  what  was  the  matter.  She  said :  "Brother  Allred,  I 
do  not  believe  that  I  can  do  this  work.  I  just  feel  that  I  cannot  do  it." 
After  talking  with  her  a  few  moments,  I  laid  my  hands  upon  her  head 
and  blessed  her  and  promised  her  that  if  she  would  put  her  attention 
to  the  work  and  trust  in  God,  that  God's  pohver  would  come  into 
her  soul  until  her  heart  would  be  overflowing  with  a  testimony  of 
the  work  of  God.  Three  weeks  later  I  happened  to  be  in  that  same 
district  again,  and  I  met  this  same  girl  standing  on  a  street  corner, 
bearing  witness  to  the  people  that  she  knew  the  gospel  as  restored  is 
true.  In  talking  with  her,  she  said :  "Brother  Allred,  I  have  had 
more  glory  in  the  last  three  weeks  than  I  have  had  before  in  all  my 
life  put  together."  What  is  the  change  which  gives  this  joy?  Where 
is  the  strength  of  this  Church?  Is  it  with  these  brethren  on  the  stand? 
no.  I  will  tell  you,  the  strength  of  this  Church  lies  in  the  testimony 
that  God  implants  in  the  hearts  of  its  members,  and  once  that  testi- 
mony is  implanted  in  the  heart  of  a  boy  or  girl  he  or  she  will  go 
through  fire  for  the  religion  that  they  are  preaching  in  the  world. 

Not  long  ago  we  sent  two  young  elders,  at  the  beginning  of  this 
summer's  work,  into  a  country  district.  One  of  them  was  from  San 
Francisco  and  the  other  from  Alberta,  Canada.  One  was  nineteen 
years  old  and  the  other  twenty.  They  began  their  work  in  a  certain 
county,  and  five  preachers  in  that  county,  when  they  saw  the  activities 
of  these  elders,  decided  that  they  ought  to  hold  some  anti-"Mormon" 
meetings.  So  they  called  these  meetings  together,  and  five  of  them 
sat  on  the  stand.  They  sent  to  Chicago  for  an  anti-"Mormon"  lecturer 
who  had  labored  in  Utah,  and  who  knew  all  about  the  "Mormons." 
He  came,  and  they  held,  a  meeting.  They  actually  asked  the  sheriff 
of  the  county  to  come  and  sit  close  to  the  front  where  he  could  take 
care  of  these  two  "Mormon"  boys,  lest  they  do  someone  bodily  harm. 
The  preachers  held  three  anti-"Mormon"  meetings,  and  the  boys  fol- 
lowed after  them.  One  man  told  me  afterwards  that  the  dignity  of 
these  young  men,  the  spirit  that  accompanied  their  talks,  the  power 
that  was  behind  them,  convinced  him  that  they  were  not  what  these 
preachers  said  they  were.  And  afterwards  that  man  and  all  his  family 
joined  the  Church.  When  these  two  elders  were  asked  to  take  this 
country  trip  they  did  not  want  to  go,  they  said  that  they  had  made  a 
lot  of  friends  where  they  were,  and  they  thought  they  ought  to  follow 
up  what  they  had  been  doing.  They  said  to  the  district  President: 
"You  are  taking  us  away  and  putting  two  elders  in  our  places,  and 
we  do  not  want  to  go.  We  would  rather  stay  here."  As  they  talked 
this  matter  over  in  their  meeting,  the  president  of  the  district  arose 
and  said:  "I  prophesy,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  that  if  you  will  take 
this  trip,  as  you  have  been  called  to  do,  you  shall  have  more  friends 
where  you  go  than  you  have  ever  had  here.  You  shall  heal  the  sick 
in  every  direction  in  which  you  travel,  and  the  very  elements  shall  be: 


ELDER  JOHN  G.  ALLRED 


39 


subject  to  you."  These  two  boys  went  out  and  came  back  and  testi- 
fied that  the  Lord  had  healed  the  sick  wherever  they  had  gone,  that 
the  very  elements  had  been  subject  to  them,  that  they  had  commanded 
the  elements  to  be  still  when  they  interfered  with  their  meetings,  and 
the  elements  had  been  stilled.  I  tell  you  people,  there  is  a  power  in 
this  Church  which  the  world  must  yet  recognize.  I  am  wondering 
what  the  answer  of  the  world  would  be  if  we  were  to'  ask  them,  today, 
Whence  comes  this  power?  How  can  we  get  these  young  men  and 
young  women  to  go  out  into  the  world  and  devote  their  attention  to 
this  work,  and  how  is  it  that  they  make  such  growth? 

Not  long  ago  we  received  a  wire  from  Port  William,  Ontario,  Can- 
ada. A  family  living  there  said  that  they  had  lost  three  of  their  children 
by  drowning  in  the  river,  and  for  us  to  come  at  once.  The  preachers  of 
the  town  said :  "These  'Mormon'  elders  will  never  travel  four  hundred 
miles  to  attend  a  funeral  service.  You  might  just  as  well  let  us  hold  it." 
The  Saints  replied :  "The  elders  will  come  if  there  is  a  possibility  of 
their  doing  so."  When  we  got  to  the  place  we  found  that  they  had 
arranged  for  the  funeral  service  to  be  held  in  a  little  chapel.  Twenty 
minutes  before  the  time  for  the  service  to  commence,  we  went  to  the 
chapel  and  found  it  crowded,  and  hundreds  of  people  were  there  who 
could  not  obtain  entrance.  I.  said  to  Elder  Jones,  the  presiding  elder, 
"We  will  have  to  find  a  different  place  in  which  to  meet."  We  went 
down  the  street  a  block  where  a  funeral  service  was  being  held  in  a 
church,  and  we  requested  of  the  preacher  the  privilege  of  holding  our 
services  in  his  church.  "Well,"  he  said,  "I  will  see  the  elders."  He 
conferred  with  the  elders  and  came  back  in  a  few  minutes  and  said  that 
he  felt  he  could  not  allow  us  to  meet  in  his  building.  We  went  back. 
Just  across  the  road  from  the  undertaker's  parlor  was  the  city  hall,  and 
in  this  hall  was  a  large  auditorium.  We  asked  the  mayor  over  the  phone 
if  we  could  not  hold  our  service  there.  He  said:  "We  have  refused, 
four  times  in  succession,  to  allow  your  elders  the  use  of  that  hall."  We 
said  :  "We  know  you  have,  but  don't  you  think  that  under  the  conditions 
you  ought  to  open  the  hall  and  let  us  hold  a  funeral  service  there?" 
Then  he  said:   "I  think  possibly  we  could." 

"How  many  people  will  your  hall  hold  ?" 

"Six  hundred." 

We  carried  the  caskets  across  the  road  into  this  hall  and  in  ten 
minutes  every  seat  was  taken.  As  we  had  five  preachers,  the  mayor, 
and  the  Salvation  army  captain,  sitting  on  the  stand  with  us,  my  soul 
went  out  in  prayer  to  God  that  he  would  magnify  us  that  we  might 
be  able  to  make  these  people,  who  were  in  mourning,  wipe  away  their 
tears  and  look  up  and  not  down,  forward  and  not  back,  and  that  we 
might  also  be  able  to  let  the  people  of  that  city  who  had  been  so 
prejudiced  that  they  had  never  heard  the  voice  of  a  "Mormon"  elder, 
know  what  the  doctrines  and  teachings  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
and  our  conceptions  of  life  and  the  world  to  come,  really  are.  When 
it  was  all  over  we  found  that  we  had  made,  not  one  friend,  not  one 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


family  of  friends,  but  that  we  had  made  scores  of  friends.  One  man 
said  to  his  wife  when  he  went  home :  "You  are  all  the  time  asking 
me  to  go  to  church  and  hear  the  preacher.  If  you  will  get  a  preacher 
in  our  church  like  those  elders  I  will  go  every  Sunday."  Another 
man  said :  "  I  do  not  know  what  it  is  in  this  'Mormon'  Church,  but 
it  is  remarkable  that  these  elders  can  come  up  here  and  make  these 
people  wipe  away  their  tears  and  influence  them  in  such  a  way  that 
they  can  go  to  the  cemetery  and  lay  away  three  of  their  children  at 
the  same  time  and  not  weep.  Our  preachers  cannot  do  it,  but  these 
elders  of  the  'Mormon'  Church  have  done  it." 

I  want  to  say  to  you  today  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  will 
meet  every  human  need,  and  it  will  meet  it  fully  and  completely,  for 
this  is  God's  work,  it  is  not  the  work  of  man.  I  bear  witness  to  this 
fact  today,  with  all  the  earnestness  of  my  soul,  and  I  testify  'that  he 
will  carry  it  through  successfully  to  the  end. 

We  are  grateful  for  those  very  splendid  young  men  and  young 
women  who  come  to  our  mission  who  will  face  any  kind  of  cold 
weather — and  we  have  a  lot  of  it  up  there — to  preach  the  gospel.  They 
are  going  into  the  homes  of  the  people.  The  doors  are  being  opened 
in  such  numerous  instances  that  we  are  not  able  to  take  care  of  them 
all.  We  need  more  elders,  "an'd  we  need  them  to  come  out  into  the 
field  like  those  who  are  there. 

Let  me  say  to  you  in  closing,  you  fathers  and  mothers  who  have 
girls  in  the  mission  field:  Do  not  fear  for  them  while  they  are  there. 
Let  your  fears  begin  when  they  return  home  to  the  body  of  the  Church 
and  throw  off  the  harness  of  responsibility.  Those  boys  and  girls, 
while  they  are  engaged  in  the  ministry,  are  growing  every  hour,  and 
the  longer  they  stay  the  faster  they  grow. 

May  God  bless  this  work  at  home  and  abroad,  that  men  and 
women,  holding  responsibility  in  it,  may  be  endowed  with  the 
spirit  of  their  office  and  calling,  that  we  may  work  day  and  night  for 
the  furtherance  of  the  purposes  of  God,  and  that  his  purposes  might 
be  accomplished  and  his  will  prevail  on  earth  as  it  docs  in  heaven,  1 
humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  HENRY  H.  ROLAPP 

President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  As  I  stood  before  this  conference  six 
months  ago,  after  having  been  called  to  preside  over  the  Eastern  states 
mission,  I  had  very  little  conception  of  the  influence  which  that  mis- 
sion would  have  upon  my  life.  In  the  East  we  have  some  thirty-four 
million  people  to  approach,  or  seventy  or  eighty  times  as  many  as 
there  are  in  this  state.  We  have  only  a  comparatively  few  missionaries 
to  do  the  work.  I  went  through  that  mission  with  Brother  Ballard, 
of  the  Twelve.  He  was  there  with  me  for  twenty-three  days.  He  spoke 
every  day.  He  made  thirty-six  stalks  in  the  twenty-three  days  that 
he  was  with  us,  and  the  wonderful  results  that  came  from  those  meet- 


ELDER  HENRY  H.  ROLAPP 


41 


ings,  each  of  which  was  attended  by  a  great  many  investigators,  are 
simply  marvelous.  He  was  with  us  in  June,  and  possibly  a  few  days 
in  July.  During  the  months  of  July  ana  August  ninety-nine  new  con- 
verts were  baptized  into  the  Church  of  Christ.  We  have  not  been 
able  to  keep  it  up  in  September.  I  have  just  received  a  telegram  to 
the  effect  that  we  had  only  twenty-one  baptisms  during  September, 
sixteen  of  whom  were  converts. 

I  feel  thankful  to  the  Lord  that  we  had  a  member  of  the  Twelve 
with  us  in  that  great  mission.  I  am  also  certain  that  we  do  not  under- 
stand the  Eastern  states.  I  know  that  I  did  not.  I  had  been  in  New 
York  not  less  than  twice  every  year  for  twenty  or  twenty-five  years, 
but  I  did  not  understand  it.  There  is  more  distinct  evidence  of  preju- 
dice against  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  the  Eastern  states  than  anywhere 
else  that  I  can  conceive  oi'.  We  cannot  get  at  them,  comparatively 
speaking.  It  is  difficult  in  a  city  of  eight  or  nine  millions  of  people  to 
reach  a  great  many,  but  we  go  from  door  to  door  and  we  are  reaching 
some  of  them.  If  some  of  the  authorities  could  stay  in  the  larger 
cities  and  communities  in  the  East,  from  Vermont  and  New  Hampshire 
down  to  West  Virginia — all  of  the  states  lying  along  the  Atlantic 
coast  belonging  to  the  Eastern  states  mission — if  they  could  stay  there 
a  little  more  and  not  just  go  there  on  a  short  trip,  but  do  as  Brother 
Ballard  did  (some  of  the  other  apostles  no  doubt  have  done  the  same), 
and  realize  the  possibilities  of  that  mission,  I  believe  that  a  whole  lot 
of  good  could  be  done. 

So  far  as  our  missionaries  are  concerned,  I  must  confess  that 
I  did  not  believe  it  possible  that  young  men  and  women  whom  I  knew 
who  went  into  the  Eastern  states  or  any  other  mission,  with  the  limited 
knowledge  and  experience  they  possessed,  could  obtain  the  strength 
of  testimony  that  they  do.  But  I  say  to  you  that  95  per  cent  of  the 
missionaries  who  are  in  the  Eastern  states  sincerely  believe  all  that 
they  tell  about  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  about  the  "Mormon"  religion. 
They  have  become  thoroughly  aroused  to  the  fact  that  they  are  engaged 
in  the  service  of  God.  So  far  as  I  know,  not  a  single  one  of  our  mis- 
sionaries is  sick.  They  are  all  anxious  to  work,  and  it  is  their  greatest 
desire  to  stay  fully  two  years  in  the  mission.  A  lady  missionary  whom 
I  released  a  little  before  her  time  was  up,  telegraphed  me  the  other  day 
that  she  would  like  to  find  out  what  was  the  matter,  she-  wanted  to 
stay  her  full  time.  I  wired  back  to  her  and  explained  why  she  should 
be  released.  But  that  is  the  spirit,  and  that  is  the  good  feeling  that 
there  is  in  the  Eastern  states  mission. 

I  am  very  much  more  gratified  today  about  being  called  as  a 
missionary  in  the  Church  of  Christ  than  I  was  six  months  ago.  I  was 
rather  fearful  that  the  many  other  things  I  had  done  in  my  lifetime 
were  so  different  from  going  into  the  missionary  field,  that  my  atten- 
tion would  be  distracted  from  the  work  that  ought  to  be  clone;  but 
the  Lord  has  been  with  me  and  I  feel  that  there  is  not  any  other  thing  that 
interests  me  in  the  least  so  long  as  I  am  in  New  York  and  doing  this 
work.    I  have  traveled  all  over  the  mission  now.    I  have  been  over 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


two-thirds  of  the  mission  the  second  time  and  expect  to  spend  all  of 
my  time  in  getting  around  among  the  Saints.  Let  me  say  to  you  here 
that  1  am  not  trying  to  preach  the  gospel  to  the  Saints.  The  mission- 
aries, your  boys  and  girls,  are  doing  that.  I  cannot  preach  very  much. 
I  say  a  few  words  at  the  end  of  the  meeting,  but  after  such  meetings 
I  sit  down  with  the  missionary  elders  and  sisters,  and  we  hold  a  two 
or  three  hours'  meeting.  We  do  not  get  up  on  our  feet  and  talk  to  one 
another,  but  we  sit  around  the  table  and  discuss  the  situation.  I  think 
we  have  all  come  to  the  conclusion  that  we  are  all  serving  the  same 
Master,  that  we  have  but  one  thing  to  do  and  that  is  to  see  that  more 
people  get  a  knowledge  of  the  truth.  I  have  taken  the  elders  away 
from  the  Saints,  very  largely.  I  think  that  they  are  needed  to  preach 
the  gospel  to  those  who  have  not  heard  it.  I  have  said  to  the  local 
priesthood  in  the  branches,  you  take  care  of  the  Saints  and  let  the  elders 
preach  the  gospel.  We  have  had  remarkable  success  in  a  majority  of 
the  branches.  I  hope  to  have  more  success.  I  hope  that  we  may  have 
a  still  better  year  this  year  than  last.  Last  year  was  the  ban- 
ner year  of  the  mission.  There  were  two  hundred  and  nineteen  con- 
verts last  year.  In  the  first  nine  months  we  baptized  one  hundred  and 
eighty-three  new  converts,  and  we  will  do  better  than  last  year  before 
this  year  is  ended.  We  are  paying  comparatively  more  tithing  in  the 
East  than  you  are  at  home.  We  are  doing  wonderful  things  with  the 
people  that  are  living  there.    So,  no  doubt,  are  all  other  missionaries. 

I  feel  grateful  for  the  privilege  of  laboring  jn  the  mission.  Let  me 
just  ask  you  one  thing.  There  are  hundreds  of  you  who  have  relatives 
and  friends  in  the  East  or  in  other  missions.  Why  don't  you  write 
to  the  elder  who  presides  in  the  mission  where  your  friend  lives,  and 
say  to  him:  "I  have  a  friend,  Mr.  John  A.  Jones,  living  in  such  a 
street  and  such  a  town  ?"  and  we  will  ascertain  the  rest.  We  will  ap- 
proach them  right.  We  will  not  try  to  convert  them,  we  will  just  go 
and  call  on  them  and  try  to  continue  calling  on  them  until  we  get  them 
interested  in  the  gospel.  But  we  would  like  to  have  you  help  us  to  the 
extent  of  giving  us  the  addresses.  Merely  John  A.  Jones,  New  York, 
doesn't  mean  a  thing.  We  have  tried  it,  and  can't  do)  a  thing  with  them. 
But  give  us  John  A.  Jones,  212  Olive  street,  New  York,  and  they 
will  be  visited.  We  need  you,  we  are  relying  upon  you.  The  more 
than  eighty  missionaries  who  are  laboring  in  the  Eastern  states  are  the 
ones  who  are  telling  them  about  the  gospel  of  Christ,  as  you  are  living 
it,  and  we  hope  that  there  may  be  some  success  come  from  their  efforts. 

I  testify  to  you,  as  I  have  done  to  the  people  in  the  East, 
that  the  gospel  of  Christ  has  been  restored.  That  was  an  old  story  with 
me.  I  am  more  than  ever  confirmed  in  it,  ahd  I  proclaim  it  to  the  peo- 
ple with  whom  I  come  in  contact.  God  bless  the  Saints  at  home.  It 
is  gratifying  to  have  an  opportunity  to  stand  before  them  occasion- 
ally and  tell  them  what  we  are  doing,  because  that  is  really  what  is 
interesting. 

God  bless  you  all  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  SLOAN 


43 


ELDER  WM.  R.  SLOAN 

President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

I  am  extremely  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  to 
report  the  condition  of  the  Northwestern  states  mission.  When  I  re- 
port the  condition  of  the  mission  and  my  feelings,  I  want  to  associate 
with  myself  my  good  companion  and  wife,  who  is  a  big  factor  in  what 
little  degree  of  success  we  have  attained  this  year.  We  are  immensely 
happy  in  our  labors,  and  we  have  been  working  together,  trying  with  the 
help  of  the  Lord  to  further  his  great  work  in.  the  earth.  We  have  a 
great  field  in  which  to  labor,  covering  a  tremendous  area  of  country, 
but  our  population  is  nowhere  as  numerous  as  President  Henry  Hi 
Rolapp  reports  in  the  Eastern  states. 

In  the  past  ten  months  I  have  traveled  over  twenty-five  thousand 
miles  visiting  the  Saints  and  friends  of  the  Northwestern  states  mis- 
sion, and  I  am  very  happy  to  report  a  wonderful  spirit  of  cordiality  is 
now  extended  to  us '  in  that  section,  by  the  press.  The  freedom  of 
the  press  and  the  way  in  which  the  newspapers  voluntarily  write  articles 
about  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  indeed  gratify- 
ing to  us,  and  at  no  time  do  we  ask  for  favors1  but  that  those  favor's 
are  granted. 

We  have  seven  thousand  members  of  the  Church  residing  in  that 
mission.  We  have  thirty-seven  branches,  fifty-three  Sunday  schools, 
seventy  Primaries,  twenty-four  Relief  Society  organizations,  and  sev- 
enty-four missionaries  now  laboring  in  the  field.  We  could  use  many- 
times  seventy- four  missionaries  had  we  them  to  use.  At  the  present  time 
in  our  Primary  work  we  have  recently  organized,  in  the  city  of  Seattle, 
a  Primary  in  the  Orphans'  Home.  This  is  a  sectarian  orphanage.  In 
this  Primary  organization  we  have  one  hundred  thirty-five  children. 
We  met  with  the  Board  of  Governors  and  the  matron  of  that  institu- 
tion and  laid  our  plans  before  them  and  asked  for  the  privilege  of 
organizing  a  Primary,  giving  them  to  understand  that  we  are  members 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  They  asked  us 
to  come  and  hold  a  class.  The  class  was  held.  The  children  were 
divided  into  their  groups,  just  as  you  would  organize  them  here  at  home, 
and  at  the  close,  in  the  presence  of  the  governing  body  of  that  institu- 
tion, they  came  and  said :  "Can  you  not  occupy  at  least  one  hour  each 
day  with  such  work  as  this  ?"  We  have  three  other  Orphans'  Homes  in 
Seattle  that  are  open  to  us,  but  we  have  only  four  little  missionary  girls 
to  take  care  of  that  work,  and  with  our  numerous  other  duties  we  are 
handicapped.  We  are  not  even  attempting  to  organize  primaries  in  those 
homes  until  the  time  comes  when  we  can  get  reinforcements.  We  are 
happy  to  tell  you  that  the  Presidency  have  listened  to  our  plea  and 
will  send  to  us  eight  or  ten  young  women  in  the  immediate  future  who 
will  constitute  the  reinforcements  necessary,  and  then  we  will  proceed 
at  once  to  organize  other  Primaries.  -W e  have  four  young  ladies  labor- 
ing in  Tacoma.  They  have  seven  primaries  there  to  take  care  of,  or  a 
Primary  every  day  of  the  week.  So  I  could  go  on  indefinitely,  telling 
you  oi  this  work. 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


1  We  have  today  in  this  audience,  I  am  quite  sure,  one  of  our  young 
missionaries  who  has  just  been  released  atter  serving  twenty-eight 
months  in  the  mission  field.  Last  spring  he  and  his  companion  were 
laboring  in  Olympia,  Washington,  on  the  Pacific  coast.  I  said :  "Elder, 
I  want  you  and  your  companion  to  go  over  into  Montana.  You  take 
the  highway  and  travel  without  purse  or  scrip.  I  don't  want  you  to 
ask  for  a  ride  during  your  entire  journey.  Travel  as  if  you  had  a  desti- 
nation in  view  and  you  will  have  plenty  of  opportunities  to  ride."  The 
first  day  they  rode  over  a  hundred  miles  in  an  automobile,  and  at  the 
close  of  the  day,  as  they  were  leaving  him,  the  gentleman  with  whom 
they  were  riding  put  his  hand  into  his  pocket  and  gave  them  four  dol- 
lars and  forty-three  cents,  and  said :  "Boys,  I  don't  want  you  to  go 
hungry."  The  next  day  another  gentleman  picked  them  up,  gave  them 
a  ride  of  a  hundred  and  seventy-five  miles.  His  father-in-law,  who 
happened  to  be  in  the  car  with  them,  a  little  man,  was  very  quiet  and 
had  nothing  to  say  all  day,  but  had  listened  to  the  conversation.  Towards 
evening,  he  said :  "Boys,  I  remember  many  years  ago  meeting  two 
'Mormon'  missionaries,  away  back  in  my  old  home  town,  the  city  of 
Carthage,  Illinois.  I  do  not  remember  what  those  men  preached  about, 
but  I  do  remember  the  words  of  one  of  the  songs  they  sang."  And,  by 
the  way,  we  sang  that  hymn  for  our  opening  song  this  afternoon.  He 
said :  "I  cannot  remember  all  the  words,  but  part  of  the  words  of  that 
hymn  were  these:  'Do  what  is  right,  let  the  consequence  follow.'  "  The 
Elders  opened  their  grips  and  took  therefrom  a  little  pamphlet  hymn- 
book  and  sang  the  hymn,  "Do  what  is  right."  The  old  gentleman  sat 
there  with  his  eyes  bedimmed  with  tears,  and  from  then  on  he  was 
talkative  in  the  extreme. 

We  have  a  young  lady  sitting  in  the  congregation  this  afternoon 
who,  a  few  months  ago,  held  a  street  meeting  on  the  streets  of  Tacoma, 
Washington,  in  company  with  her  companion  and  the  elders.  At  the 
close  of  the  meeting,  just  as  they  dismissed,  a  gentleman  spoke  up  and 
said,  "May  I  say  a  word?"  The  privilege  was  granted  him.  He  said: 
"Ladies  and  gentlemen,  I  want  to  say  that  the  city  of  Tacoma,  Washing- 
tion,  is  honored  in  the  presence  of  these  young  men  and  women  repre- 
senting the  'Mormon'  Church.  I  only  wish  that  we  had  more  such 
young  men  and  young  women  as  they  are."  He  was  one  of  the  repre- 
sentative business  men  of  Tacoma,  Washington. 

And  so  I  could  go  on.  Our  Saints  are  working  unitedly  together. 
We  are  enjoying  the  work.  We  took  a  caravan  to  the  Canadian  temple 
this  summer.  One  hundred  and  ninety-three  people  from  our  mission 
made  the  trip  to  Cardston,  traveling  in  automobiles  the  entire  distance, 
some  of  them  going  sixteen  hundred  miles.  The  experiences  of  that 
caravan,  the  spiritual  uplift,  development  and  growth  as  a  result  of  that 
trip,  time  will  never  last  long  enough  to  efface.  I  bear  you  that  witness, 
my  brethren  and  sisters.  The  treatment  that  we  were  accorded  in 
the  Canadian  temple  was  simply  wonderful. 

Just  one  word  further.  I  have  a  clipping  from  one  of  the  leading- 
newspapers  of  the  Northwest,  which  I  would  like  to  read  to  show 
you  the  spirit  of  the  press.    In  speaking  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  and 


ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  SLOAN 


45 


that  auspicious  22nd  day  of  September,  the  writer  said  this.  It  is  an  edi- 
torial, by  the  way : 

"While  Messrs.  Dempsey  and  Tunney  are  pummeling  each  other  for  a 
million  dollars  or  so  at  Chicago  Thursday  night,  a  scene  quite  different  will  be 
unfolded  through  Utah  on  that  occasion. 

"On  the  22nd  day  of  September,  1927,  it  will  be  one  hundred  years  since 
the  Angel  Moroni  delivered  to  the  prophet,  Joseph  Smith,  the  gold  plates  which 
had  been  deposited  for  centuries  in  the  Hill  Cumorah,  near  Palmyra,  New  York, 
from  which  plates  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  translated  by  the  gift  and  power 
of  God.  I  i  .  i 

"Believe  it  or  not,  as  you  choose.  The  undoubted  fact  remains  that  the 
'Mormon'  people  have  contributed  vastly  to  the  upbuilding  of  the  west.  Literally, 
they  made  the  deseret  'blossom  like  a  rose.'  In  these  days  of  quarreling 
religious  sects  it  is  worth  while  to  point  to  the  thrift,  industry,  discipline  and 
co-operation  of  the  'Mormons'  to  show  what  may  be  accomplished  by  a  church 
organization  in  the  practical  development  of  a  commonwealth. 

"  'All  for  one  and  one  for  all,'  to  employ  the  slogan  of  The  Three  Guardsmen. 
has  ever  been  their  watchword. 

"The  other  night  as  the  train  moved  by  the  well-kept  homes  and  ripe  gardens 
in  the  outskirts  of  Salt  Lake  City,  the  Pullman  porter  who  lives  in  Chicago, 
remarked :    'They  still  think  a  heap  of  Brigham  Young  in  this  town.' 

"And  well  they  may.  Whatever  may  be  said  of  the  teachings  of  'Mormonism,' 
Brigham  Young  was  one  of  the  ablest  and  most  remarkable  administrators  and 
leaders  of  men  and  women  ever  developed  in  our  American  civilization." 

In  closing  allow  me  to  repeat  the  words  of  one  of  the  poets  : 

"We  are  building  every  day, 

In  a  good  or  evil  way; 

And  the  building,  as  it  grows, 
i  Shall  our  inmost  selves  disclose, 

And,  in  every  arch  and  line, 
All  our  faults  and  failings  find. 

"We  may  build  a  palace  grand, 
Or  a  wreck  upon  the  sand. 
Do  you  ask  what  building  this. 
That  can  show  both  pain  and  bliss, 
That  can  be  both  dark  and  fair? 
Lo,  its  names  is  Character. 

"Build  it  well  what'er  you  do, 
Build  it  straight  and  strong  and  true. 
Build  it  clean,  and  high,  and  broad. 
Build  it  for  the  eyes  of  God." 


So  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "God  moves  in  a  mysterious  way." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Hyrum  G.  Smith,  pre- 
siding patriarch  of  the  Church. 

Tire  conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  a.  m.  Saturday,  October 
8,  1927. 


SECOND  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

The  conference  continued  on  Saturday  morning,  10  o'clock,  Oc- 
tober 8,  1927.   The  congregation  comfortably  filled  the  large  tabernacle. 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Prayer  is  the  soul's  sincere 
desire." 

Invocation  was  offered  by  Elder  David  K.  Udall,  president  of  the 
Arizona  temple. 

The  congregation  sang,  "How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the 
Lord." 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  esteem  very  highly  the  privilege  of  attending  this  conference  and 
of  listening  to  the  instructions  and  testimonies  that  we  have  heard. 
There  is  in  my  soul  a  sincere  gratitude  for  my  membership  in  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ.  As  I  came  down  this  morning,  observing  the  sunshine, 
the  changing  tints  of  the  foliage,  and  the  beauties  of  this  valley  that 
surround  us,  I  felt  that  surely  the  great  pioneer  leader  made  no  mistake 
when  he  announced  to  that  little  band  of  pilgrims  who  had  crossed  the 
trackless  plains,  "This  is  the  place !" 

THE  JOY  OF  THE  WORK 

I  desire  to  be  blessed  by  the  Lord,  that  the  thoughts  voiced  by  me 
may  be  profitable  to  you.  We  are  a  small  part  of  a  great  congregation 
that  belongs  to  our  heavenly  Father.  All  the  children  in  the  world, are 
his,  and  upon  us  has  been  laid  the  responsibility  of  delivering  to  them 
the  truth,  much  of  which  has  been  in  the  world  before,  some  of  which 
has  been  lost  until  the  gospel  was  restored  again  in  this  latter  day.  We 
have  listened  to  these  good  men  who  preside  over  our  missions,  have 
partaken  of  the  spirit  of  the  mission  field,  and  have  rejoiced  with  them 
and  with  those  who  labor  under  them,  that  our  heavenly  Father  has 
given  to  us  in  this  latter-day  the  duty  to  perform  of  proclaiming  his 
truth  to  the  children  of  men.  Perhaps  it  might  appear  to  the  outside 
observer  that  there  is  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  an  unusual  en- 
thusiasm. As  one  man  recently  said  :  "It  is  strange  to  me  how  joyfully 
you  people  carry  your  work  forward.  It  matters  not  whether  I  speak 
to  a  youth  or  to  a  mature  man,  to  a  gardener  or  a  policeman  among 
your  people,  they  are  all  happy  and  satisfied  and  confident  that  they 
possess  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ."  Everyone  should  possess  the  spirit 
of  the  work,  a  spirit  of  love,  a  spirit  of  kindness,  a  spirit  of  charity 
for  the  weaknesses  and  frailties  of  mankind,  but  with  a  pronounced 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH. 


47 


desire  that  the  truth  may  be  made  manifest,  that  those  who  err  in  their 
lives  may  be  led  to  forsake  their  folly  and  turn  to  the  Lord  our  God. 

SEEK  FIRST  THE  KINGDOM  OF  GOD 

We  believe  absolutely  in  the  admonition  that  was  given  by  the 
Savior  of  the  world  when  he  said: 

"Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness,  and  all 
other  things  will  be  added." 

Therefore,  we  believe  that  if  we  can  establish  faith  in  the  minds 
of  the  rising  generation,  if  we  can  teach  the  truth  in  such  a  way  that 
our  Father's  children  will  seek  him  and  his  influence  first,  that  this 
world  will  begin  to  prepare  for  the  Millennium,  when  there  will  be  joy 
and  peace  and  happiness,  and  when  our  heavenly  Father  will  establish 
his  kingdom,  into  which  he  has  invited  every  child  of  his  that  has  been 
born  into  the  world.  With  that  understanding  in  our  hearts,  and  with 
that  feeling  in  our  souls,  is  it  any  wonder  that  there  is  enthusiasm  in 
6ur  worship,  that  we  have  a  disposition  to  be  anxious  to  divide  these 
glorious  truths  with  our  neighbors?  Is  it  to  be  wondered  at,  that  when 
the  time  comes  that  our  sons  are  called  into  the  mission  field,  or  we 
are  asked  to  lay  aside  our  duties  and  go  out  as  servants  of  the  living 
God,  endued  with  power  from  on  high,  possessing  authority  that  has 
been  conferred  in  this  latter-day,  in  order  that  we  may  divide  with  all 
people  this  wonderful  truth  that  has  made  our  lives  so  rich,  and  that  is 
preparing  us  to  be  desirable  companions  for  all  his  children  wherever 
we  may  find  them,  that  we  respond  willingly  and  gladly? 

OBEDIENCE  AND  THE  SPIRIT  OF  UNSELFISH  SERVICE  NEEDED 

It  is  this  spirit  of  unselfish  service  that  is  needed  in  the  world.  Re- 
pentance of  sin  is  also  greatly  needed  by  mankind.  It  is  necessary  that 
there  be  obedience  to  law,  not  only  to  the  laws  of  God,  but  obedience  to 
the  laws  of  the  land  should  be  stimulated  in  the  minds  of  men,  if  we 
expect  this  earth  upon  which  we  live  to  be  the  kind  of  a  home  that  he 
desires  us  to  possess.  Our  ministry  is  one  of  love  and  forbearance, 
and  we  desire  to  do  good  to  all,  and  to  assist  all  to  understand  the 
plan  of  life  and  salvation  that  the  Lord  revealed  in  this  latter  day.  The 
assurance  that  God  lives  is  most  desirable  and  that  knowledge  may  be 
just  as  fixed  in  the  lives  of  the  humble  man  and  the  humble  woman  in  the 
ranks  as  it  is  in  the  lives  of  those  who  preside  over  us.  I  am  not  , 
dependent  upon  the  testimony  of  my  brethren  arid  my  sisters  by  whom 
I  am  surrounded,  and  for  whom  I  have  an  affectionate  regard.  And 
this  is  the  testimony  that  I  desire  to  leave  with  you,  I  may  if  I  will 
know  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  he  is  the  Redeemer 
ot  the  world,  and  that  he  so  loved  the  world  that  he  gave  his  life  in 
order  that  his  gospel  might  be  preached  to  all  men. 

SACRIFICE  AND  LABORS  OF  THE  PROPHET  JOSEPH  SMITH 

Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet,  who  was  the  servant  of  Jesus  Christ, 
our  Lord,  was  given  an  understanding  of  the  gospel  that  was  taught  by 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  Redeemer,  and  in  our  day  was  inspired  to  perfect  a  church  organi- 
zation that  is  recognized  as  the  most  perfect  in  the  world. 

This  youth  was  so  sure  of  the  revelation  that  he  had  received,  and 
was  so  anxious  that  his  Father's  children,  all  of  them,  should  know  of 
the  truth,  that  from  the  time  he  received  the  plates  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon from  the  angel  Moroni  he  devoted  his  entire  life  to  the  organization 
of  the  Church  and  disseminating  the  truth.  Those  chosen  to  carry  the 
work  forward  received  the  holy  priesthood  and  were  prepared  to  carry 
on  when  the  prophet  said :  "I  go  like  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter,  but 
I  have  a  conscience  void  of  offense  toward  God  and  all  men,  and  it 
will  yet  be  said  of  me,  'he  died  in  cold  blood'."  So  he  went  to  his  doom 
as  he  understood  it,  but  there  was  burning  in  his  soul  a  knowledge  such 
as  Stephen  had,  such  as  the  Redeemer  had,  that  our  heavenly  Father 
was  at  the  helm,  that  it  was  his  work  that  was  upon  the  earth,  that  it 
was  his  power  that  would  eventually  control,  that  this  life  was  but  a 
part  of  eternity.  He  was  prepared  to  give  up  a  part  of  his  earth-life, 
if  need  be,  in  order  that  he  might  enjoy  eternally  the  companionship 
that  he  so  .sincerely  loved,  and  the  association  of  good  .men  and  women 
who  have  and  do  dwell  upon  the  earth,  and  will  again  dwell  upon  the 
earth  when  it  becomes  the  celestial  kingdom.  This  testimony  the 
humblest  individuals  of  this  Church  may  have,  and  know  just  as  they 
know  that  they  live,  that  these  things  are  true. 

THE  GOSPEL  THE  POWER  OF  GOD  UNTO  SALVATION 

This  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation, 
as  the  Apostle  Paul  declared.  It  is  the  Redeemer's  work.  It  is  the 
only  way  whereby  we  may  attain  the  highest  exaltation  that  the  Savior 
of  mankind  intended  that  those  who  followed  him  should  enjoy.  I  do 
not  say  that  egotistically,  I  say  it  with  all  charity  for  our  Father's  chil- 
dren who  belong  to  other  churches.  I  say  it  with  love  for  his  sons  and 
daughters  who  do  not  understand,  but  he  has  commanded  that  we  should 
say  this  thing.  It  is  his  will  that  people  should  know.  In  no  uncertain 
tone  is  the  gospel  being  proclaimed  among  the  children  of  men,  and  the 
message  of  life  and  salvation  is  being  offered,  without  money  and-with- 
out  price,  to  all  our  Father's  children,  in  order  that  they  may  avail 
themselves  of  the  knowledge  that  will  prepare  them  for  eternal  life 
in  his  celestial  kingdom.  That  is  why  there  is  rejoicing  in  the  lives 
of  those  who  keep  the  commandments  of  God. 

THE  CAUSE  OF  HAPPINESS 

The  happiest  men  and  the  happiest  women  that  you  know  in  the 
world  are  those  who  are  conforming  their  lives  to  the  teachings  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  They  are  those  who  have  the  assurance  of 
eternallife;  they  are  those  who  understand  the  purpose  of  our  being  \ 
they  are  those  who  realize  that  to  seek  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and 
his  righteousness,  means  for  them  all  that  men  and  women  can  enjoy 
in  this  life  or  in  the  life  that  is  to  come. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  49 


With  happiness  and  with  thanksgiving,  there  departs  into  the 
world  from  his  Church  a  group  of  men  and  women  whose  lives  are 
devoted  to  proclaiming  the  truth.  In  the  neighborhood  of  two  thousand 
are  in  the  world  today,  paying  their  own  expenses,  going  from  door  to 
door,  teaching  what  our  heavenly  Father  has  said  must  be  known  by  the 
children  of  men  before  this  world  can  be  transformed  into  the  kingdom 
of  our  Lord.  These  are  your  sons  and  daughters.  After  them  shall 
go  others  who  will  carry  this  message  forward  to  the  honor  and  glory 
of  our  heavenly  Father.  As  I  have  traveled  to  and  fro  in  the  world 
bearing  this  message,  my  soul  has  been  filled  with  joy,  and  my  eyes 
have  been  dimmed  with  tears,  when  I  have  seen  how  perfectly  men's  lives 
may  be  transformed  by  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  have  seen  those 
who  were  discouraged,  those  who  were  in  darkness,  those  who  ques- 
tioned the  purpose  of  their  being,  and  when  they  have  had  taught  to 
them  the  glorious  truths  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  they  have 
changed,  they  have  learned  to  be  happy,  to  be  contented,  to  be  satisfied, 
to  be  enthusiastic  in  believing  and  teaching  the  gospel  that  was  pro- 
claimed by  Jesus  Christ  when  he  dwelt  upon  this  earth  and  traveled 
in  Galilee. 

THE  GOSPEL   MISSION   PROCLAIMED  IN  LOVE 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  world  does  not  understand  that,  but  it 
is  our  mission  to  assist  them  to  understand  it,  and  it  is  not  with  egotism, 
it  is  not  with  arrogance,  but  with  charity  for  all,  with  loving  tenderness, 
that  this  message  is  sent  forth.  We  do  not  say  to  the  Presbyterians, 
to  the  Methodists,  to  the  Baptists,  to  the  Catholics,  and  those  others 
who  in  their  lives  are  striving  to  live  the  teachings  of  their  churches, 
we  do  not  say  to  them :  "You  must  give  up  all  that  you  have  been 
,  taught,  you  must  turn  away  from  the  truth  that  has  been  deposited  with 
you  in  order  that  you  may  come  into  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ."  But 
we  say  to  them.  "Keep  all  that  you  possess.  Keep  all  the  virtues,  keep 
all  the  truth,  keep  all  the  goodness  that  has  ever  come  into  your  lives,  and 
then  permit  us  to  share  with  you  the  additional  light  that  our  heavenly 
Father,  in  his  tender  mercy,  has  bestowed  upon  the  children  of  men  in 
our  day."  That  is  our  mission  to  our  Father's  children.  It  is  a  mission 
t  of  peace,  of  good  will  towards  all  men.  It  is  an  intense  and  enthusiastic 
desire  to  divide  with  all  our  Father's  children  the  good  things  that  he 
has  so  generously  bestowed  upon  us ;  and  it  is  with  the  hope  that  they 
may  understand,  that  we  go  upon  our  bended  knees,  day  after  day,  and 
pray  that  their  hearts  may  be  touched,  that  the  spirit  of  God  may  come 
into  their  souls,  that  they  may  understand  the  truth  as  it  is  given  unto 
them,  and  thereby  make  preparation  for  the  time  to  come  when  our 
heavenly  Father  will  gather  those  who  have  sought  him  first  and  who 
have  prepared  themselves  thereby  to  be  the  eternal  companions  of  Jesus 
Christ  our  Lord. 

TESTIMONY  AND  GRATITUDE 

This,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  what  brings  joy  into  our  hearts. 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


That  is  why  there  is  peace  in  your  home  and  in  mine.  Therefore,  this 
morning,  as  one  of  the  humblest  among  you,  I  thank  him  with  all  my 
heart  for  the  assurance  that  has  come  into  my  life,  for  the  privileges  that 
have  been  mine,  for  the  associations  that  are  so  desirable,  that  I  have 
been  permitted  to  enjoy  while  I  have  lived  here  these  few  years  upon  the 
earth.  And  above  all,  I  thank  him  for  the  knowledge  that  has  been 
burned  into  my  soul;  I  know  that  my  heavenly  Father  lives,  I  know 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Savior  of  mankind,  and  that  there  is  no  other 
name  under  heaven  whereby  men  and  women  may  be  exalted,  but  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  I  do  know  that  he  came  into  the  world 
in  this  latter  day,  that  he  bestowed  divine  authority  upon  a  humble  boy 
who  was  seeking  the  truth,  and  the  result  of  that  has  been  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  Church  with  which  we  are  identified ;  and  there  is  with  it 
the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  to  all  those  who  believe.  Knowing 
that  as  I  know  that  I  live,  I  bear  you  witness  of  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

About  the  middle  o>f  September  of  this  year  I  was  taken  by  my 
son  from  San  Pedro,  California,  to  Hollywood.  At  that  time  I  attended 
Grauman's  Chinese  theatre.  They  had  printed  on  their  program :  "The 
.  Glories  of  the  Scriptures."  The  screen  play  was  "The  King  of  Kings." 
The  prologue  was  enchanting  and  wonderful.  This  screen  play  has 
not  yet  been  released.  Thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  of  people  have 
gone  to  Hollywood  to  this  great  theatre  to  witness  this  play,  the  "King 
of  Kings."  The  cast  O'f  great  actors — they  tell  me  they  are  among  the 
great  actors — represented  Jesus  the  Christ,  Mary  the  Mother,  the 
Twelve  Apostles,  Mary  Magdalene,  Martha,  and  Mary  of  Bethany,  Caia- 
phas,  the  Pharisee,  the  Scribe,  Pontius  Pilate,  the  woman  taken  in 
adultery,  satan,  and  hundreds  of  other  characters  as  found  in  the  story 
of  Jesus.  The  characterization,  costumes,  life  and  surroundings  must 
have  been  true  to  life.  At  times  it  was  thrilling  and  pathetic.  Many 
who  were  at  all  spiritual  were  brought  to  tears.  It  was  the  greatest 
sermon  of  Christ's  life,  sorrows  and  sufferings,  ending  with  his  cru- 
cifixion and  resurrection,  that  could  possibly  be  presented,  and  its  effects 
1  will  be  everlasting.  To  my  mind  it  would  almost  immortalize  Cecil  B. 
De  Mille  and  others. 

The  actors,  so  I  am  told,  signed  a  pledge,  a  contract,  binding  upon 
them  to  live  lives  that  would  be  fitting  to  the  characters  they  repre- 
sented, for  three  years,  for  in  doing  otherwise'  it  would  mar  and  destroy 
the  effect  and  purpose  of  the  picture. 

When  I  returned  home  I  read  the  Life  of  Christ  by  Giovani 
Papini,  to  make  clear  my  conception  of  men.  I  learned  from  this  book 
this  information : 

"What  manner  of  men  were  the  Apostles,  chosen  of  Christ? 

"He  chose  them  from  among  the  Galileans;  he  chose  them  from 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


51 


among  the  poor ;  simple  men,  but  of  divine  simplicity,  transcending  all 
philosophies.  He  knew  these  men  were  rough,  but  had  integrity ;  were 
ignorant,  but  ardent,  and  that  he  could  in  the  end  mold  them  according 
to  his  desire  and  bring  them  up  to  his  level." 

"These  disciples  lived  with  Christ  and  were  fortunate  to  walk, 
to  eat  with  him,  to  sleep  in  the  same  room,  to  look  into  his  face,  to 
touch  his  hand,  to  kiss  him,  to  hear  his  words  from  his  mouth." 

"We  see  them,  hard  of  head  and  of  heart,  not  able  to  understand 
the  clearest  parable  of  the  Master ;  often  lacking  in  faith,  in  lotve,  in 
brotherly  affection,  eager  for  pay;  envying  each  other,  impatient  for 
the  revenge  which  would  repay  them  for  their  long  wait ;  intolerant  of 
those  who  were  not  one  with  them.  One  of  them  denies  him  three 
times."  They  disputed  among  themselves  to  know  who  should  have 
the  chief  place  in  the  new  kingdom.  Jealous  of  their  privileges,  they  de- 
nounced to  Jesus  one  who  was  casting  out  devils  in  his  name.  Jesus 
said:  "Forbid  him  not  for  there  is  no  man  which  shall  do  a  miracle 
in  my  name  that  can  lightly  speak  evil  of  me.  For  he  that  is  not  against 
us  is  on  our  part."  This  is  a  hard  saying;  who  can  hear  it?  and  they 
left  Jesus.  ' 

Peter,  James  and  John  are  the  only  ones  who  accompany  Jesus 
into  the  house  of  Jairus  and  on  the  Mount  of  Transfiguration  and  they 
are  the  ones  whom  he  takes  with  him  on  the  night  of  Gethsemane.  But 
in  spite  O'f  their  long  intimacy  with  the  Master,  they  did  not  acquire 
sufficient  faith  and  humility. 

At  one  time  Jesus  and  some  of  his  disciples  started  together  to- 
wards Jerusalem.  They  were  crossing  Samaria  and  were  badly  re- 
ceived in  a  village.  James  and  John  said:  "Lord,  wilt  thou  that  we 
command  fire  to  come  down  from  heaven  and  consume  them."  But 
he  turned  and  rebuked  them.  It  seemed  in  vain  that  they  had  heard 
the  Sermon  on  the  Mount.  James  and  John  wanted  Jesus  to  grant 
them  the  right  (one  to  sit  on  the  right  hand,  and  one  on  the  left  hand 
in  his  glory).  Yet  John  was  among  the  nearest  and  most  loving  of  the 
diseiples. 

Jesus  Christ  trained,  educated,  and  tried  to  mold,  his  disciples 
according  to  his  desire  to  bring  them  up- to  his  level.  To  the  Twelve 
much  should  be  pardoned,  because  always  they  had  faith  in  him,  be- 
cause they  tried  to  love  him  as  he  wished  to  be  loved.  I  would  like 
to  have  myself  and  everyone  feel  and  realize  that  God,  too,  is  molding 
his  servants  in  this  day  and  age  of  the  world.  The  gospel  has  been  re- 
stored upon  the  earth  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  with  all  of 
its  gifts  and  blessings  pertaining  thereto,  and  I  am  a  living  witness, 
a  Seventy  and  a  preacher  of  righteousness  who,  standing  before  you 
without  fear  and  ,  without  doubt — for  I  have  seen  the  power  of  God 
made  manifest  through  the  administration  of  those  ordinances.  So  it 
was  with  these  great  apostles,  and  we  love  and  cherish  their  memories. 
But  what  they  needed  was  to  be  enlightened  by  the  flame  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  for  their  transformation.  Until  the  day  of  Pentecost  they  acted 
like  natural  men.  They  were  then  prepared  to  announce  that  the  king- 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


dom  of  heaven  was  at  hand,  to  heal  the  sick  and  command  men  every- 
where to  repent ;  and  they  quoted  the  scriptures — as  I  have  quoted-  those 
passages  of  scripture  in  the  South  hundreds  and  hundreds  of  times, 
and  they  are  being  quoted  all  over  the  world  by  the  elders  who  are 
preaching  the  gospel. 

"Behold  I  send  the  promise  of  my  Father  upon  you ;"  that  same 
promise  is  upon  us.  "Tarry  ye,"  said  the  Lord,  "Tarry  ye  in  the  city  of 
Jerusalem  until  ye  be  endowed  with  power  from  on  high."  I  never 
place  my  hands  upon  an  elder  to  set  him  apart  that  I  do  not  think  of 
that  passage  of  scripture.  It  has  been  verified  and  fulfilled,  fo<r  elders 
have  come  back,  young  men  of  whom  I  have  no  remembrance,  but 
they  come  back  to  the  apostles  and  to  those  who  set  them  apart  and 
say:  "Brother  Kimball,  you  set  me  apart,  and  the  promises  you  made 
have  been  realized." 

"And  he  led  them  out  as  far  as  to  Bethany  and  he  lifted  up  his 
hands  and  blessed  them."    Luke  24:49,  50. 

"But  the  Comforter,  which  is  the  Holy  Ghost,  whom  the  Father 
will  send  in  my  name,  he  shall  teach  you  all  things  and  bring  all  things 
to  your  remembrance  whatsoever  I  have  said  unto  you."   John  16  :26. 

"Howbeit  when  he,  the  Spirit  of  truth,  is  come,  he  will  guide  you 
into  all  truth ;  for  he  shall  not  speak  of  himself,  'but  whatsoever  he 
shall  hear,  that  shall  he  speak  ;  and  he  will  show  you  things  to'  come. 

"Nevertheless,  it  is  expedient  that  I  go  away,  for  if  I  go  not  away, 
the  Comforter  will  not  come  unto  you,  but  if  I  depart,  I  will  send  him 
unto  you." 

After  the  crucifixion  and  death  of  their  Master  they  go  forth 
as  witnesses  to  teach  the  truth  and  to  speak  without  fear,  and  without 
hiding  anything,  and  to  cry  out  from  the  heights  in  order  that  all  may 
hear  it,  in  order  that  there  may  be  no  one  to  say  on  that  day  that  he  has 
not  heard  it. 

Now,  brethren,  I  confess  to  you  that  I  have  been  among  this  people 
for  a  considerable  length  of  time,  and  have  tried  to  fill  my  appoint- 
ments as  best  I  could.  I  have  traveled  among  the  people  from  Canada 
to  Mexico,  but  I  have  never  in  all  my  labors  felt  the  thrill  and  the  flame 
of  the  Holy  Spirit  like  I  did  when  I  was  on  my  mission.  It  has  been 
strange  to  me  that  I  have  not  been  able  to  reach  the  hearts,  to  reach 
the  humility,  the  childlike  simplicity,  the  perfect  faith  in  God  that  I 
enjoyed  in  the  Southern  states,  as  an  ignorant  elder,  perhaps,  and  with 
very  little  information.  Yet  I  traveled  without  purse  or  scrip  absolutely, 
and  I  had  such  perfect  confidence  that  I  never  doubted  but  that  I 
would  be  cared  for.  Now,  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  a  while  back  I 
was  sick,  two  or  three  weeks,  with  what  they  call  the  ''flu."  I  inherited 
that  disease ;  I  get  it  every  little  while.  While  I  was  there  I  wondered 
if  I  had  exaggerated  my  experience  in  the  South,  so  I  hunted  up  my 
diaries  which  I  had  not  read  for  forty  years,  and  I  discovered  that 
I  told  the  truth.  The  record  is  as  correct  as  the  record  of  the  Bible, 
and  I  was  astonished  how  God  blessed  me  and  how  I  enjoyed  his  spirit 
and  the  manifestations  and  testimonies  that  were  given  to  me.   Let  me 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


53 


call  your  attention  to  an  incident.  It  happened  away  down  in  Alabama. 
That  was  at  a  time  in  the  '90's  when  I  presided  over  the  Southern  states 
mission.  The  elders  had  been  ask'ed  to  assemble  themselves  together. 
They  were  laboring  in  that  low,  marshy,  malarial  district  that  was 
scarcely  safe  for  a  human  to  live  in,  and  they  came  straggling"  in,  suf- 
fering with  malaria,  rather  low-spirited,  because  they  had  been  travel- 
ing without  purse  or  scrip  through  that  section  of  the  country.  We 
assembled  to  hold  a  conference.  After  the  conference  was  over,  two 
days,  we  were  to  hold  a  priesthood  meeting.  We  had  no  place  to  meet 
in  those  days  except  in  the  woods,  but  I  had  instructed  the  elders  to 
clean  some  place  off  in  the  woods,  a  circle,  where  we  could  meet  to- 
gether and  hold  our  priesthood  meeting.  On  that  occasion  there  was  a 
young  man  whose  mother  was  a  remarkable  woman,  a  Latter-day  Saint. 
The  father  had  left  the  Church  years  and  years  ago.  He  opposed  the 
boy,  "he  stood  out  against  him,  he  refused  to  assist  him,  but  the  mother's 
faith  and  the  faith  of  the  young  man  who  was  in  that  conference  did  not 
fail.  I  don't  know  what  his  trouble  was,  but  one  of  his  legs  was  as 
large  as  my  body,  and  it  looked  like  a  great  piece  of  raw  meat.  It 
looked  like  it  would  burst.  The  people  there  did  the  best  they  could 
for  him.  He  had  no  physician. ,  We  did  not  know  what  a  physician  was 
in  the  South,  in  my  day.  There  may  have  been  physicians  there,  but 
I  never  happened  to  meet  any.  So  on  this  occasion  I  said  to  this  elder : 
"Well,  you  will  have  to  stay  here  with  the  people.  You  can't  go  up 
there."  "Why,"  he  said,  "Brother  Kimball,  I  have  been  dreaming  about 
this,  and  I  have  been  talking  about  it.  It  would  ruin  my  whole  mission 
unless  I  can  be  at  that  priesthood  meeting."  "Well,"  I  said,  "if  yoy 
feel  that  way,  two  of  the  elders  will  carry  you  up  there,  one  mile."  We 
went  there  in  order  to  get  away,  to  a  place  where  we  would  be  secluded, 
and  when  we  got  into  the  woods  in  that  little  circle  and  sat  down,  as 
best  we  could,  I  'looked  those  elders  over.  I  was  not  very  well  myself, 
but  I  said:   "Brethren,  what  are  you  preaching?" 

"We  are  preaching  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ." 

"Are  you  telling  these  people  that  you  have  the  power  and  author- 
ity, through  faith,  to  heal  the  sick?" 

They  said :  "Yes." 

"Well,  then,  why  don't  you  believe  it?" 

This  young  man  spoke  up  and  he  said :  "I  believe  it !"  He  sat 
down  on  a  stump  and  the  elders  gathered  around  him.  He  was 
anointed  and  I  administered  to  him,  and  he  was  healed  right  in  their 
presence.  It  was  quite  a  shock ;  and  every  other  elder  that  was  sick 
was  administered  to,  and  they  were  all  healed.  We  went  out  of  that 
priesthood  meeting  and  the  elders  received  their  appointments,  and 
there  was  a  joy  and  a  happiness  that  cannot  be  described.  The  people 
gathered  around,  and  the  elders  before  their  departure,  got  down  and 
they  cried.  Those  elders,  many  of  them,  had  never  seen  one  another  un- 
til they  assembled  in  that  conference,  and  "Such  love,"  those  people  said, 
"we  have  never  known."  My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  realize  that 
we  at  home  are  carried  away  in  many  instances  with  material  things. 


^54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


It  is  spiritual  first,  and  then  temporal.  My  experience  of  late  has 
been  such,  unfortunately,  that  I  have  had  to  hark  back  to  find  testi- 
monies of  the  great  healing  power  of  God. 

I  will  tell i  you  a  story  and  then  I  shall  stop.  I  got  a  telephone  mes- 
sage some  time  ago,  I  think  a  year  ago,  may  be,  that  I  had  some  rela- 
tives in  the  hospital.  They  wanted  me  to  hurry  up  there  and  adminis- 
ter to  them.  They  were  two  sisters.  They  were  married,  and  they 
were  not  city  people,  and,  by  the  way,  their  father  and  mother  were 
good  Latter-day  Saints,  and  these  young  girls  had  been  taught  and 
they  had  been  active,  but  they  were  not  healed,  so  they  came  to  the 
hospital.  When  I  arrived  I  found  one  of  them  in  one  room,  and  she' 
had  been  operated  upon,  and  getting  along  very  nicely.  The  other 
sister  jwanted  me  to  bless  her  before  she  was  operated  upon.  I  asked 
her  how  much  she  was  paying  for  her  room.  She  told  me.  "And  how 
much  are  you  paying  the  doctor." 

"Three  hundred  dollars." 

"Well,  haven't  you  got  confidence  in  him?  He  is  charging  you 
enough.  Why  don't  you  trust  him?" 

"Well,"  she  said,  "Uncle  'Golden,  jl  have  been  administered  to, 
but  I  was  not  healed,  and  I  felt  forced  to  come  to  the  doctor." 

I  said,  "I  am  a  little  jealous  for  God,  and  if  I  bless  you,  and 
you  are  healed,  who  is  going  to  get  the  credit?  If  the  doctor  gets 
all  the  money  and  all  the  credit,  and  God  heals  you,  I  don't  think 
that  fair." 

So  I  blessed  her  as  best  I  knew  how,  frnd  I  blessed  the  doctor.  I 
made  a  full  anointing  and  blessed  the  nurse,  and  asked  God  that 
his  spirit  might  be  there  and  the  patient's  life  be  spared.  I  realize  that 
hospitals,  physicians,  and  surgeons,  do  wonderful  things,  and  that 
faith  without  works  is  dead.  I  want  to  bear  testimony  to  you,  and 
I  know  it,  I  don't  think  it,  I  don't  imagine  it:  (I  have  seen  God  heal 
the  sick.  I  know  it  isn't  in  me,  but  I  know  that  where  there  is  faith 
there  is  nothing  impossible,  and  these  young  elders  who  are  sent  out 
now,  it  may  not  be  wisdom  to  send  them  out  as  we  went,  but  when 
we  were  in  the  South,  God  had  to  take  care  of  us,  whether,  it  was  stormy 
or  sunshine,  as  we  had  no  choice.  I  know  the  Lord  can  take  care  of 
us  and  will  take  care  of  us  if  we  have  faith. 

I  was  in  the  South  three  years,  presiding  over  the  mission,  under 
the  greatest  hardships ;  and  the  greatest  difficulties  I  have  ever  en- 
dured in  all  my  life  were  experienced  in  the  missionary  field,  yet  I 
have  had  the  greatest  joy  and  the  greatest  peace  and  happiness.  Dur- 
ing my  three  years  of  presidency  there  was  only  one  elder  who  died. 
EHas  S.  Kimball  presided  over  the  mission  for  seven  years,  and  he  had 
seventeen  hundred  fifty  elders  under  his  presidency,  and  only  two 
died.  When  the  Spanish-American  war  was  on,  there  were  at  Chicka- 
mauga  Park,  Tenn.,  forty  thousand  of  the  finest  5'oung  men  of  Amer- 
ica, and  they  were  looked  after,  and  yet  they  died  by  the  hundreds. 
Don't  tell  me  that  God  can't  take  care  of  his  servants  if  they  will  have 
faith. 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


55 


I  know  this  work  is  true.  I  pray  God  always  to  help  me  to  sus- 
tain the  work,  to  uphold  the  hands  of  the  priesthood,  and  to  overlook 
my  weaknesses  and  help  me  to  finish  and  complete  my  mission  here 
upon  the  earth.  I  have  no1  fear  of  the  hereafter.  I  am  not  afraid  of 
God.  I  know  God  is  a  God  of  love,  a  Father  who  will  look  after  you, 
if  you  will  trust  him.  I  sustain  this  work,  and  I  sustain  the  brethren. 
I  sustain  all  those  who  labor  for  God  and  his  cause.  All  of  which  I 
humbly  pray  for,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


When  President  Grant  announced  the  changes  in  the  missionary 
field  in  his  opening  remarks  yesterday.  I  whispered  to  Brother  Mc- 
Murrin  who  sat  next  to  me:  "Surely  he  overlooked  the  change  in  the 
European  mission  in  the  appointment  of  Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe  to 
succeed  President  James  E.  Talmage  in  the  presidency  of  that  mis- 
sion." We  were  pleased,  however,  when  the  announcement  was  subse- 
quently made,  and  I  have  been  thinking :  "How  abundantly  has  the 
Lord  endowed  Brother  Widtsoe  to  become  the  successor  to  that  other 
defender  of  the  faith  (who  is  now  honorably  released  to  return  home) 


complish  a  good  work  in  that  great  mission,  which,  however,  is  a  mis- 
sion comprising  many  missions  located  in  various  parts  of  the  eastern 
hemisphere,  where  a  great  many  different  foreign  languages  are  spoken ; 
and  in  this  particular  Brother  Widtsoe  is  especially  fitted  and  equipped, 
it  seems  to  me,  for  the  great  work  unto  which  the  Lord  has  called  him. 

Not  very  many  years  ago  I  had  the  pleasure  of  attending  the 
Canadian  quarterly  conferences  in  company  with  Elder  Widtsoe. 
Previous  to  our  conferences  Dr.  Widtsoe  had  been  visiting  the  North- 
west delivering  addresses  on  agriculture,  irrigation,  reclamation,  dry- 
farming  and  kindred  subjects,  and  there  were  people  including  many 
not  of  our  faith  and  living  in  outlying  districts  who  desired  to  hear  him, 
for  his  fame  as  an  agriculturist  had  gone  before  him.  Accordingly  a 
meeting  was  arranged  and  some  of  the  visitors  at  the  Alberta  conference, 
including  myself,  were  also  in  attendance.  He  gave  a  most  excellent 
talk.  I  have  never  listened  to  one  where  I  received  so  much  infor- 
mation regarding  the  principles  of  agriculture.  He  stated  that  there 
were  five  essentials  to  successful  farming :  first,  soil.  There  must  be 
soil.  Second,  there  must  be  air.  Third,  there  must  be  seed.  Fourth, 
there  must  be  water,  and  fifth,  there  must  be  sunshine.  He  went  on 
explaining  how  it  was  necessary  to  break  up  the  soil,  to  pulverize  it  in 
order  that  the  air  might  get  in,  that  it  might  be  thoroughly  aerated,  fairly 
filled  with  atmosphere.  He  went  on  to  show  how  it  was  necessary  that 
seed  should  be  planted  in  the  soil,'  thus  prepared.  He  continued  to 
show  that  it  was  necessary  that  water  stiould  be  applied  if  that  seed  is 
to  grow  and  that  the  sun  must  shine  upon  it  before  it  can  yield  a  harvest. 
He  made  it  much  more  complete  than  I  would  be  able  to  do  here;  but 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 


with  those  qualifications 


enable  him  to  ac- 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


what  surprised  me  most  was  that,  at  the  close  of  his  remarks,  he  said : 
"Now,  before  we  dismiss  this  meeting  I  would  like  to  hear  from  my  com- 
panion, Mr.  Wells,  who  is  a  practical  farmer." 

Well,  I  thought  that  was  rather  a  strange  introduction  to  give 
to  me,  as  I  had  never  held  a  plow  in  my  hand  in  all  my  life.  I  had  no 
horny  hands  of  toil  and  my  muscles  were  soft  and  had  not  become 
hardened  to  that  kind  of  work,  but  nevertheless  I  responded  to  the  invi- 
tation, and  as  I  did  so  it  came  to  me  that  perhaps  after  all  Dr.  Widtsoe 
was  right,  and  that  I  was  indeed  a  practical  farmer,  but  the  soil  that  I 
I  have  been  endeavoring  to  cultivate  is  the  soil  of  the  human  heart.  It 
is  sometimes  an  unwieldy  soil,  and  full  of  hardness.  It  needs  to  be 
broken  up  and  harrowed ;  it  needs  to  be  pulverized  and  softened  before 
it  is  prepared  to  receive  the  seed.  The  seed  that  I  have  been  planting 
has  been  the  seed  of  faith.  We  do  not  call  it  farming ;  we  call  it  sowing 
ihe  seeds  of  faith — faith  on  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  men  shall  be- 
lieve that  he  is  indeed  the  Son  of  God,  who  was  chosen  before  the 
foundations  of  this  earth  were  laid  to  create  it  and  redeem  it.  For,  let 
it  be  remembered,  there  had  been  a  great  council  in  Heaven,  when  the 
great  plan  of  life  and  salvation  had  been  proclaimed  among  the  children 
of  God  before  this  world  was,  "When  the  morning  stars  sang  together 
and  all  the  sons  of  God  shouted  for  joy ;"  and,  in  order  to  carry  out  the 
Lord's  plan,  the  question  arose :  "Whom  shall  I  send  ?"  There  was 
one  like  unto  the  Son  of  man  who  arose  and  said :  "Here  am  I,  send  me. 
Thy  will  be  done  'and  the  glory  be  thine  forever."  This  was  the  first- 
born, even  Jehovah,  who  became  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father,  and 
was  known  as  Jesus  Christ  in  the  flesh.  I  have  been  teaching  men  to 
have  faith  in  him  who  came  into  this  world,  created  and  peopled 
it  with  the  children  of  God,  that  they  might  have  life  in  this  world,  this 
natural  world  where  we  should  have  the  experience  of  an  earth-life ;  to 
have  faith  in  him  who  not  only  created  the  world,  but  who  should  re- 
deem the  world ;  who  should  redeem  mankind  from  the  fall  which  was 
to  ensue,  thus  giving  us  the  opportunity  to  prove  whether  we,  with  a 
knowledge  of  good  and  evil  and  in  the  exercise  of  our  free  agency,  would 
do  all  things  whatsoever  the  Lord  our  God  should  command;  to  have 
faith  in  him  by  whose  almighty  power  mankind  should  be  redeemed 
from  death  and  the  grave. 

But  there  was  another  who  arose  invthat  primeval  council  who  re- 
jected that  plan  and  led  many  away  from  God  through  his  deception  and 
insidious  sophistries,  and  he  said:  "Here  am  I,  send  me.  I  will  be  thy 
son,  and  I  will  see  that  not  one  soul  shall  be  lost  and  surely  I  will  do  it ; 
therefore  give  me  thine  honor."  And  God  said,  I  will  send  the  first ; 
and  satan,  for  he  it  was  who  spake  thus,  became  angry  and  was.  cast  out 
of  heaven  and  with  him  fell  one-third  of  the  hosts  of  heaven.  The  one 
all  important  thing,  then,  is  to  teach  men  to  have  faith  in  Him  whom 
God  sent)  and  reject  the  other  whom  God  cast  out  of  heaven.  The  first 
was  a  plan  of  freedom  wherein  men  should  exercise  their  own  volition ; 
the  other  was  one  of  compulsion  and  eventual  subjection  to  the  power 
of  evil.    To  teach  this  fundamental  truth  has  been  the  good  seed  which 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


57 


I  have  always  endeavored  to  plant  in  the  hearts  of  men,  in  this  oftimes 
imwieldly.  sour  and  hardened,  but  withal  most  prolific  "and  fertile  soil. 

But  other  seeds  were  constanly  being  planted  in  this  receptive  soil — 
evil  seeds.  That  war  begun  in  heaven  is  continued  here  on  earth.  The 
evil  hand  that  led  so  many  away  from  God  in  that  primeval  conflict, 
with  all  his  evil  followers,  continues  ,  here  to  lead  mankind  astray  by 
planting  evil  seeds,  the  seeds  of  hate,  of  greed,  of  avarice  and  lust,  and 
these  grow,  too,  along  with  the  good  seed.  These  are  the  weeds,  the 
thistles  and  the  thorns,  hence  the  good  farmer  will  pull  them  out  or 
cut  them  clown,  lest  they  overrun  the  good  and  hinder  its  growth.  This 
we  call  repentance  from  sin  or  casting  the  devils  out. 

Then  comes  the  need  for  water,  another  essential  in  successful 
farming.  So  we  preach  not  only  faith  and  repentance  but  also  baptism 
by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins,  for  the  extinction  of  all  the 
evil  effects  of  sin,  that  the  hearts  and  souls  of  men  may  be  washed 
clean  in  the  blood  of  the  Lamb  of  God,  by  being  buried  with  him  by 
baptism  into  his  death,  and  coming  forth  from  that  watery  grave  in 
the  likeness  of  his  glorious  resurrection. 

Now  let  in  the  sunshine  of  God's  Holy  Spirit.  How  can  the  garden 
grow  in  darkness?  How  can  the  trees  blossom  and  produce  their 
luscious  fruit?  Or  how  can  the  fields  grow  and  ripen  into  golden 
fiarvests,  unless  the  sun  shall  shine  upon  them  ?  How  can  we  know  or 
understand  the  things  of  God  without  the  light  of  his  Holy  Spirit? 
And  yet,  "This  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee  the  only  true 
God,  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent."  Hence,-  there  is  need  to 
obtain  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  which  in  the  gospel  of  our  Lord  is 
bestowed  upon  repentant  and  baptized  believers  by  the  laying  on  of 
hands. 

These  are  the  essentials  in  this  practical  farming  which  has  engaged 
so  many  years  of  my  life.  There  appear  to  be  two  kinds  of  farming 
and  both  are  practical.  How  greatly  and  grandly  do  they  resemble 
each  other !  I  think  it  was  Goethe,  the  great  German  poet,  who  said : 
"Alles  vergaengliche  is  pur  ein  Gleichniss," — all  things  temporal  are  but 
symbols  of  things  eternal. 

And  now,  Brother  Widtsoe,  so  well  informed  in  the  science  of 
agriculture — the  reclamation  of  the  waste  lands  of  the  desert — has  also 
had  a  still  greater  experience  as  an  apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in 
the  cultivation  of  human  hearts,  in  planting  the  seeds  of  faith,  not  only 
by  word  of  mouth,  but  also  by  his  convincing  pen  in  this  still  wider 
field  of  human  welfare,  by  applying,  in  their  spiritual  form  these  same 
essentials  of  practical  and  successful  farming. 

May  the  Lord  bless  him  in  his  ministry  abroad.  And,  as  he  shall 
travel  in  the  various  missions  of  Europe,  may  he  be  able  to  speak  forth 
the  words  of  eternal  life  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people 
wheresoever  he  shall  come,  even  to  the  convincing  of  the  honest  in  heart 
and  in  a  language  which  .they  can  understand.  This  is  my  humble 
prayer  and  sincere  wish  for  Brother  Widtsoe,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen.  • 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  California  Mission 

I  have  rejoiced,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  proceedings  of 
this  conference,  £nd  feel  that  we  have  had  a  truly  wonderful  time  to- 
gether. I  have  enjoyed  the  testimonies  and  counsels  of  all  who  have 
spoken,  from  President  Grant  to  my  companion  and  fellow-laborer, 
President  Rulon  S.  Wells.  I  would  like  to  say  that  I  know,  by  close 
association  with  President  Wells,  that  he  has  been  a  successful  farmer 
in  the  manner  that  he  has  indicated,  in  sowing  the  seeds  of  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Qirist  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men.  I  joy- 
fully bear  witness  to  the  good  that  has  come  to  me  as  an  individual 
through  my  companionship  with  President  Wells,  both  at  home  and 
abroad,  and  I  thank  God  for  his  example,  for  his  patience,  for  his 
excellent  teachings,  for  the  love  he  has  manifested  for  his  fellow  men, 
and  for  the  blessings  that  he  has  produced  in  my  own  soul  by  his 
teaching  and  by  his  kind  and  loving  companionship. 

If  I  caught  aright  the  suggestion  made  by  the  President  of  the 
Church  yesterday,  it  was  his  desire  that  the  mission  presidents  should 
give  information  concerning  the  mission  intrusted  to  their  care.  You 
have  all  learned  from  the  remarks  of  President  Grant  that  some  things 
a  little  out  of  the  ordinary  have  taken  place  in  the  California  mission. 
Three  stakes  have  been  organized  in  that  mission.  I  suppose  I  can 
say  in  the  mission,  although  in  a  sense  they  are  entirely  outside  of 
the  mission,  for  the  presidencies  of  the  stakes,  and  those  who  are  under 
their  direction,  control  and  manage  and  direct  the  organizations 
that  are  within  the  stakes,  are  entirely  independent  of  any  mission 
authority,  and  yet  there  are  missionary  districts  covering  some  of  the 
same  territory  that  the  stakes  cover.  The  Los  Angeles  missionary  dis- 
trict covers  the  territory  that  is  embraced  in  the  Los  Angeles  and  Holly- 
wood stakes.  The  San  Francisco  missionary  district  covers  the  identical 
territory  now  embraced  in  the  San  Francisco  stake.  I  think  there  has 
never  been  just  this  kind  of  experience  in  missions  before.  It  is  true 
that  stakes  have  been  organized  that  have  taken  sections  of  missions, 
but  the  mission  headquarters  have  not  been  maintained  in  the  midst 
of  those  sections ;  so  that,  in  California  we  have  what  might  be  termed 
a  double  line  of  authority,  the  authority  of  the  mission  and  the  author- 
ity of  the  various  stakes. 

I  am  happy  to  say  that  the  utmost  goodwill  has  been  maintained 
between  mission  authority  and  stake  authority.  At  the  present  time 
in  the  San  Francisco  stake,  President  MacDonald  and  his  associates, 
and  Bishop  Newman  of  the  San  Francisco  ward  and  his  associates,  and 
the  Relief  Society  organizations  in  that  section,  are  all  banded  together 
to  improve  the  quarters  in  San  Francisco  that  are  occupied  by  the 
missionaries.  We  thank  the  Lord  for  such  men  as  are  in  the  San  Fran- 
cisco stake  presidency  and  other  presidencies  in  California,  and  for 
their  desire  to  honor  and  respect  and  build  up  the  missionaries  and 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 


59 


give  them  opportunity  to  accomplish  the  work  that  belongs  to  them. 
I  feel  that  that  is  just  as  it  should  be.  The  missionaries  are  sent  forth 
by  proper  authority  to  proclaim  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and 
they  should  be  given  in  California,  in  every  stake  and  in  every  ward, 
abundant  opportunity  to  lift  up  their  voices  in  proclamation  of  the 
truth,  that  they  may  magnify  the  callings  whereunto  they  have  been 
called.    I  am  happy  to  say  that  this  condition  prevails. 

Then,  outside  of  California  the  missionaries,  under  the  direction 
of  mission  authority,  have  labored  in  the  St.  Joseph  stake  of  Zion  and 
in  the  Snowflake  stake  of  Zion,  and  I  think  have  been  instrumental  in 
accomplishing  good  in  all  of  the  stakes  named.  We  have  gone  into 
those  stakes  by  permission  of  stake  authority,  and  have  operated  among 
the  people  under  their  jurisdiction,  with  their  full  approval  and  sanc- 
tion. The  mission  has  turned  over  to  those  stakes  of  Zion  possibly  some 
thirty  wards,  numbering  about  eleven  thousand  souls,  and  with  the 
organization  of  the  stakes  there  has  gone  to  the  stakes  about  two  hun- 
dred thousand  dollars'  worth  of  chapel  property  that  had  been  built 
up  under  mission  authority.  In  the  organization  of  the  San  Francisco 
stake,  ten  splendid  wards  went  into  that  organization.  I  am  happy  to 
say  that  since  the  stake  was  organized,  we  have  been  successful  in 
organizing  four  new  branches  in  other  parts  of  the  mission,  two  of 
them  being  in  Sacramento,  the  capital  of  the  state  of  California.  In- 
stead of  one  branch  in  that  city  we  now  have  three  branches,  and  re- 
cently a  branch  has  been  organized  in  San  Luis  Obispo,  the  first  Church 
branch  ever'  established  in  that  city,  and  we  have  just  recently  organ- 
ized a  branch  of  the  Church  in  Compton,  right  in  the  heart  of  the  Los 
Angeles  stake ;  and  this  has  been  done  with  the  full  sanction  and  ap- 
proval of  the  presidency  of  that  stake.  We  hope  that  under  mission 
authority  men  and  women  will  be  developed  in  the  branches  and  in 
the  auxiliary  organizations  who  in  a  time  to  come  will  be  instrumental 
for  the  advantage  and  welfare  of  that  and  other  stakes  of  Zion  that 
I  have  named.  I  am  reminded  also  that  we  -have  labored  in  the  Mari- 
copa stake  of  Zion  and  have  been  given  a  most  hearty  welcome  in 
that  stake  by  President  Price,  who  formerly  was  the  bishop  of  the 
Phoenix  ward.  He  has  always  given  me  to  understand  that  when  mis- 
sionary tours  were  being  made  in  Arizona,  that  he  would  like  the 
Phoenix  ward  to  be  numbered,  temporarily  at  least,  in  the  California 
mission.  We  have  had  some  wonderful  times  in  Phoenix,  and  we 
have  rejoiced  very  greatly  in  the  testimony  of  Bishop  Price  and  others 
that  the  ministry  of  the  missionaries  in  that  section  of  the  country  has 
been  Very  greatly  to  the  advantage  of  the  work  of  the  Lord  in  that  stake. 

We  have,  at  present,  outside  of  the  stakes  of  Zion,  nearly  fifty 
Relief  Societies,  seventy  Sunday  schools,  thirty  Young  Men's  Mutual 
Improvement  associations,  thirty  Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Improve- 
ment associations,  and  thirty  Primary  organizations.  All  of  these 
organizations  are  established  exactly  in  the  same  manner  as  they  are 
organized  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  and  are  officered  in  that  manner.  They 
conduct  their  services  strictly  in  accordance  with  the  lessons  outlined 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


by  the  General  Boards,  and  that  are  in  use  in  the  stakes  of  Zipn.  In 
our  mission,  branch  presidents  carry  practically  the  same  authority 
carried  by  the  bishops  in  the  stakes  of  Zion.  They  stand  at  the 
head,  they  receive  the  tithings  of  the  people,  they  ordain,  according 
to  their  judgment,  young  men  to  the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  Usually,  if 
men  are  to  be  ordained  to  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  before  such 
ordination  their  names  are  referred  to  the  mission  president. 

We  need  more  missionaries.  I  suppose  it  is  impossible  to  get  that 
into  the  minds  of  the  men  in  authority,  who  are  here  in  this  congrega- 
tion. I  mean  not  the  men  behind  me,  but  you  men  down  in  the  con- 
gregation who  make  recommendations  to  the  presidency  of  the  Church. 
.We  have  discovered  a  way  of  getting  missionaries  that  could  be  adopted. 
It  is  to  call  stake  presidents  into  the  mission  field.  They  sent  Stephen 
L.  Chipman  to  the  California  mission,  and  there  seemed  to  come  to 
Brother  Chipman  a  great  revelation  concerning  the  necessity  of  mis- 
sionaries, and  while  he  was"  in  the  mission  field  he  got  more  mission- 
aries from  the  Alpine  stake  of  Zion  than  he  has  been  able  to  obtain 
since  he  returned.  One  of  our  missionaries  intimated  that  it  was  be- 
cause he  had  the  missionary  spirit  upon  him  in  the  mission  field,  more 
than  he  had  in  the  Alpine  stake  of  Zion  ;  but  if  we  could  have  other 
stake  presidents  sent  into  the  California  mission,  who  would  do  the 
same  work  that  President  Chipman  did  in  obtaining  missionaries,  one 
of  our  great  problems  would  be  solved. 

I  was  impressed  yesterday  with  the  testimony  of  President  Henry 
H.  Rolapp.  He  told  us  that  when  he  was  called  to  preside  over  the 
Eastern  states  mission  he  had  some  question  in  his  mind  as  to  whether 
that  would  be  a  satisfactory  way  in  which  to  spend  his  time,  and  yet 
he  declared  that  a  wonderful  revelation  had  come  to  him  regarding  the 
joy  of  missionary  work.  Well,  that  comes  to  every  missionary  who 
faithfully  meets  the  obligation  that  rests  upon  him.  I  would  not  like 
to  be  misunderstood,  or  to  give  offense  to  anybody,  but  I  say  deliber- 
ately that  in  the  mission  field  I  have  listened  to  trembling  boys  and 
trembling  girls  bear  witness  concerning  the  truth  of  the  gospel,  when 
my  own  soul  has  been  pierced  just  as  greatly  as  in  listening  to  the 
testimony  of  any  man  of  authority  who  has  ever  saluted  my  ears  with 
his  testimony.  I  thank  God  for  that  condition.  Young  men  and  young 
women  do  make  the  discovery  by  the  power  of  God  that  they  are 
engaged  in  the  work  of  God ;  and  I  feel  that  when  these  weak  vessels, 
for  they  feel  that  they  are  weak,  can  pierce  and  melt  my  own  soul  and 
bring  tears  of  joy  to  my  eyes  with  their  testimonies,  surely  by  the 
same  spirit  and  by  the  same  power  they  may  reach  the  hearts  of  men 
who  are  not  of  our  faith,  and  that  the  Almighty,  by  the  weak  things 
that  he  has  called  and  sent  forth  to  minister  in  his  name,  is  actually 
accomplishing  the  work  designed  in  the  sending  forth  of  these  young 
men  and  young  women  who  feel  most  intensely  their  own  weakness. 
I  thank  God  for  their  companionship.  I  am  proud  of  them,  I  love  them, 
I  trust  them,  and  I  believe  they  love  me.  They  gladly  hearken  to  my 
counsel,  and  they  carry  out,  generally  speaking,  without  hesitation,  and 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 


61 


in  great  cheerfulness,  the  recommendations  that  are  made  to  them. 

During  this  last  month  of  September,  we  suggested  to  the  mis- 
sionaries of  California  that  in  honor  of  the  one  hundredth  anniversary 
of  the  delivery  of  the  plates  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  to  Joseph  the 
prophet,  they  should  make  an  extra  effort  to  place  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. They  responded  wonderfully.  We  do  not  know  just  how  many 
were  placed,  but  we  believe  that  in  September  alone  we  placed  in 
the  California  mission  three  or  four  thousand  copies  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon. 

I  am  glad  to  say  that  about  twenty-six  of  our  branches  are  housed 
in  comfortable  chapel  buildings,  which  they  own  and  control.  This 
has  been  brought  about  by  the  liberality  of  the  presidency  of  the 
Church,  and  it  has  given  me  wonderful  satisfaction  to  tell  the  people 
in  the  California  mission  that  every  dollar  of  the  tithing  paid  through- 
out the  California  mission  has  been  expended  in  helping  to  house  the 
branches  of  California  in  proper  meeting  places.  When  I  say  that 
of  California  it  includes  portions  of  the  state  of  Nevada,  and  portions 
of  the  state  of  Arizona.  We  have  built  during  the  season  just  closing 
a  comfortable  little  chapel  in  Fresno,  California.  We  are  roofing 
at  the  present  time  in  Prescott,  Arizona,  a  wonderful  chapel,  built  to 
endure,  you  would  think  to  look  upon  it,  forever  and  ever,  built  out 
of  blocks  of  granite.  And  the  preliminary  steps  have  .been  taken  for 
the  erection  of-  a  chapel  in  Binghampton,  Arizona,  and  in  Palo  Alto, 
California.  So,  little  by  little  we  are  obtaining  better  foothold,  and 
I  am  happy  to  say  that  I  feel  in  my  soul  that  it  is  not  a  liability,  in 
any  sense  of  the  word,  in  the  California  mission,  to  be  known  as  a 
member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  believe, 
with  many  of  our  non-"Mormon"  friends,  that  the  announcement  that 
an  individual  is  a  member  of  the  Church  is  a  distinct  asset  to  him, 
and  we  are  held,  generally  speaking,  in  high  esteem  by  our  non- 
"Mormon"  friends  in  Nevada,  in  California  and  in  x<\rizona.  We  feel 
that  the  purposes  of  God  are  advancing",  and  we  know,  thank  God,  that 
we  are  engaged  in  the  Lord's  service.  May  he  help  us  to  meet  our 
obligations  and  magnify  our  callings,  1  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  are  honored  with  the  presence  of  General  Charles  T.  Summerall, 
Chief  of  Staff  of  the  United  States  Army,  and  some  of  his  associate 
officers.  He  is  visiting  Salt  Lake  on  a  tour  of  inspection.  We  will 
ask  our  organist  to  play  a  selection  in  honor  of  these  guests,  and  then 
we  will  be  honored  by  listening  to  the  General. 

An  organ  solo  was  then  rendered  by  Edward  P.  Kimball. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  have  very  great  pleasure  in  presenting  General  Summerall. 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

GENERAL  CHARLES  F.  SUMMERALL 

Chief  of  Staff,  United  States  Army 

President  Grant  and  friends :  It  is  a  very  distinct  honor  to  appear 
in  this  noble  temple,  the  fame  of  which  is  known  throughout  civiliza- 
tion, and  to  look  into  the  faces  of  the  men  and  women  who  represent 
the  sterling  citizenship  of  this  great  state  of  Utah.  While  I  am  not 
a  stranger  to  your  people,  this  is  the  first  opportunity  afforded  to 
bring  to  you,  as  a  representative  of  the  army  of  our  country,  a  greeting 
and  an  expression  of  appreciation  of  what  the  people  of  your  faith 
have  done  as  patriotic  citizens,  throughout  your  history,  in  the  service 
of  our  country.  Many,  many  years  ago,  it  was  my  privilege  to  number* 
among  my  friends  and  my  comrades  in  arms,  men  who  represented 
not  only  the  high  ideals  of  the  faith  of  your  Church,  but  the  high  ideals 
of  officers  and  soldiers  of  the  army  of  our  country. 

Our  nation  is  great,  not  because  of  any  material  development  of 
the  people,  so  much  as  by  the  lofty  faith  of  the  religious  denominations 
throughout  our  great  land.  It  is  the  religion  of  a  people  which  ha/^ 
ever  marked  its  civilization.  One  cannot  traverse  your  state  and  sec 
its  productive  fields,  its  prosperous  and  happy  homes,  its  attractive 
and  rapidly  growing  cities,  without  realizing  that  there  is  a  guiding 
hand  and  a  great  influence  over  the  minds  of  its  population.  They 
have  achieved  great  industrial  development.  Their  educational  system 
is  second  to  none.  This  morning  I  was  only  a  few  minutes  in  your 
University,  and  yet  I  was  profoundly  impressed  by  the  educational 
standards,  under  the  dominant  leadership  of  Dr.  Thomas,  which  must 
make  you  indeed  very  proud.  You  are  guiding  the  footsteps  and  the 
minds  of  the  rising  generation  along  the  paths  which  you  and  those 
who  preceded  you  have  found  to  be  essential  to  make  a  noble,  a  power- 
ful, a  pious  and  a  God-fearing  people. 

I  stand  before  you,  therefore,  with  reverence1  at  your  'accomplish- 
ments, with  admiration  of  your  ideals,  and  with  a  sense  of  pride  thai 
I,  too,  am  with  you  a  citizen  of  this  great  land.  We  share  love  of  coun- 
try and  the  flag  and  patriotic  loyalty  with  our  fellow  citizens  wherever 
they  may  be  found.  It  is  a  noble  tribute  to  your  faith  and  your  con- 
victions that  we  find  today  so  many  who  have  laid  aside  the  burdens 
of  their  daily  lives  to  come  together  for  religious  devotion  in  order 
that  they  might  make  better,  not  only  their  own  lives,  but  the  state 
and  the  country  in  which  they  live. 

Let  me  thank  you,  indeed,  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart,  for  this 
privilege,  and  to  hope  that  I  may  continue  to  enjoy  the  friendship  of 
your  people,  and  the  support  that  we  need  from  you  in  carrying  out 
the  great  mission  of  making  our  country  safe  for  us  and  for  those 
who  come  after  us.    Thank  you. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  regard  it  as  a  great  honor  to  have  listened  to  the  very  splendid 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


63 


compliments  that  have  been  paid  our  people.  I  rejoice  in  knowing 
that  there  are  no  people  in  all  the  United  States  of  America  who  are 
really  more  patriotic  than  the  Latter-day  Saints,  or  more  willing  to 
perform  every  duty  that  devolves  upon  them,  and  where  the  members 
of  our  people  have  been  in  the  army  or  the  navy  they  have  made  a 
record  second  to  none.  , 

The  congregation  sang,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints." 
Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  George  Whitehead  of  the  St.  George 
temple. 

The  conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m.  , 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  meeting  opened  at  2  o'clock  in  the  Tabernacle,  October  8,  1927. 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 
The  congregation  sang,  "O  ye  mountains  high." 
Elder  Franklin  S.  Richards  offered  the  opening  prayer. 
The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "How  great  the  wisdom  and  the 
love." 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

There  is  no  situation  that  has  arisen  since  the  organization  of  this 
Church,  neither  will  there  be,  in  the  future,  that  the  Lord  has  not  made 
ample  provision  to  meet.  No  matter  how  complicated  it  may  seem  to 
be  or  how  difficult,  there  is,  ample  provision  made  in  the  wisdom  of 
the  Lord  to  solve  it. 

THREATENING  DANGERS  FORESEEN 

We  read  in  the  first  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

"Wherefore,  I  the  Lord,  knowing  the  calamity  which  should  come  upon 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  called  upon  my  servant,  Joseph  Smith,  Jun.,  and 
spake  unto  him  from  heaven,  and  gave  him  commandments: 

"And  also  gave  commandments  to  others,  that  they  should  proclaim 
these  things  unto  the  world;  and  all  this  that  it  might  be  fulfilled  which  was 
written  by  the  prophets." 

The  Lord  has  seen  fit  to  warn  his  sons  and  daughters,  has  antici- 
pated their  danger  and  foreseen  their  needs,  in  ample  time  to  save  them. 
He  has  submitted  not  only  the  warning  that  there  is  danger  ahead,  but 
the  means  of  escape  have  been  provided  and  in  ample  time  to  save  his 
children.  So  that  I  say  the  Lord  knew  the  perils  of  this  hour  that  were 
spoken  of  yesterday,  the  dangers  that  threaten  the  world,  this  country, 
and  this  present  civilization.  These  things  were  known  by  the  Lord 
when  he  laid  the  foundations  of  this  work,  and  he  prepared  his  work 
to  be  able  to  withstand  all  the  storms  that  should  beat  upon  it,  and  that 
it  should  stand  as  a  shining  light  before  the  nations  of  the  earth.  He 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


endowed  us  not  only  with  the  responsibility  of  becoming  the  salt  of  the 
earth  but  with  every  facility  to  attain  unto  that  distinction. 

In  the  115th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  Lord  says 
to  all  the  Church: 

THE  GOSPEL,  A  KEY  TO  THE  SOLUTION  OF  ALL  PROBLEMS 

"Verily  I  say  unto  you  all:  Arise  and  shine  forth,  that  thy  light  may 
be  a  standard  to  the  nations; 

"And  that  the  gathering  together  upon  the  land  of  Zion,  and  upon  her 
stakes,  may  be  for  a  defense,  and  for  a  refuge  from  the  storm,  and  from 
wrath  when  it  shall  be  poured  out  without  mixture  upon  the  whole  earth." 

I  say  that  the  Lord  has  made  ample  provision  that  we  may  arise 
and  shine.  The  obligation  is  upon  us.  There  is  coming  a  day  when 
we  shall  see  the  fruits  of  the  gospel  as  it  has  been  lived  in  the  lives  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  discover  that  it  has  not  only  brought  peace 
and  happiness  to  them  while  they  live,  but  made  them  a  light  to 
the  nations,  and  their  salvation.  In  keeping  these  simple  gospel  com- 
mandments, men  and  women  are  also  fortified  to  stand  when  the  storms 
do  beat  upon  the  children  of  men,  and  in  them  lies  the  key  to  the  solution 
of  all  the  problems  that  at  present  distress  the  world. 

DANGERS  AHEAD 

I  confess  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  have  felt  in  my 
own  spirit  that  there  is  danger  ahead,  not  only  for  the  world  but  for 
the  Church.  I  recognize  that  the  powers  of  evil  have  been  arrayed 
against  this  Church  from  the  beginning.  When  the  prophet's  life  was 
taken,  that  was  but  one  item  in  the  program  of  the  adversary.  The 
driving  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  from  their  homes  to  this  western  coun- 
try was  another ;  and  their  long  years  of  struggle  to  maintain  their  right 
to  exist  has  been  contested  until  that  right,  apparently,  is  conceded. 
And  yet  I  can  plainly  see  that  the  adversary  of  this  work  is  not  yet 
satisfied.  I  believe  that  the  thing  he  has  at  heart  is  to  realize  his  first 
great  ambition ;  namely,  to  have  the  privilege  of  ruling  over  the  king- 
doms of  this  world.  He  has  never  lost  sight  of  it,  and  when  he  met 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world  and  tempted  him,  while  Jesus  was  among 
men  in  mortality,  the  great  purpose  of  that  temptation  was  manifest 
in  the  last  effort  when  the  kingdoms  of  the  world  passed  in  panoramic 
vision  before  the  mind  of  Jesus.  The  tempter  said,  Are  they  not  won- 
derful? Would  you  not  love  them?  They  are  mine.  Bow  down  and 
worship  me,  and  you  may  have  them  on  easy  terms.  He  knew  that  this 
was  the  purpose  for  which  Christ  came  into  the  world  to  die — to  earn 
the  right  to  become  the  King  of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords  and  rule  over 
them.  Satan's  purpose  was  not  to  give  the  kingdoms  of  the  world,  but 
to  overcome  the  elect  and  chosen  Son  of  God.  Jesus  went  to  Calvary 
and  paid  the  price  and  earned  the  right  to  rule  over  the  kingdoms  of  the 
world.  Putt  the  enemy  was  not  satisfied,  and  he  encompassed  Christ 
and  brought  about  his  death,  and  planned  the  death  of  the  apostles  and 
the  destruction  of  the  Church. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD  1  65 

ESTABLISHING  THE  WORK  THAT  SHALL  NOT  FAIL 

No  wonder  when  the'  boy  Joseph  Smith  knelt  in  the  grove  that 
before  the  Father  and  the  Son  could  appear  unto  him  the  powers  of  evil 
knew  that  this  humble  instrumentality  was  God's  means  of  establishing 
once  again  the  work  that  shall  riot  fail.  He  is  vain  enough  to  believe, 
the  enemy  of  our  souls,  that  he  is  yet  to  win  the  contest,  for  he  has  an 
ambition  to  become  the  king  of  this  world,  and  has  sought  to  frustrate 
every  proposition  that  our  Father  has  made  permanently  to  establish 
here  God's  work. 

How  grateful  I  am  for  the  assurance  that  we  have  in  the  vision 
which  the  Lord  gave  to  Daniel  of  old  that  in  the  last  days,  when  our 
Father  should  set  up  his  kingdom,  it  should  not  be  overthrown  nor  left 
to  another  people;  and  yet  that  kingdom  shall  be  buffeted,  and  has  been 
buffeted.  Nephi  saw  it.  He  saw  its  trials,  saw  its  dangers,  dangers 
that  are  past  and  dangers  that  are  yet  ahead  of  it;  and  yet  out  of  it 
all,  we  cling  with  joy  and  gladness  to  the  assurance  that  these  are  the 
last  days,  that  this  is  the  last  time  when  God  shall  set  his  hand  to  ac- 
complish his  work,  and  that  it  shall  not  fail  no  matter  how  the  powers 
of  evil  may  conspire  against  it. 

EVERY  INDIVIDUAL  TO  BE  TRIED 

Powers  of  evil  are  not  through  with  their  opposition,  neither  have 
they  conceded  to  us  the  right  of  way,  but  are  seeking  to  tempt  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  to  turn  away  from  the  promises  of  the  Lord,  seeking  to 
blind  their  eyes.  The  spirit  of  self  indulgence  that  is  rampant  in  the 
world,  that  leads  to  such  lawlessness  as  was  described  here  yesterday 
will  naturally  have  its  influence  over  the  "Latter-day  Saints.  There 
will  not  be  a  man  or  woman  in  this  Church,  a  boy  or  a  girl,  who  shall  not 
be  tempted  or  tried.  The  adversary  will  lay  individual  siege  against 
every  man's  faith  and  against  every  woman's  faith,  to  seek  to  darken 
their  spirits,  and  have  them  believe  that  they  have  perhaps  been  deluded 
in  some  of  these  great  and  wonderful  things ;  that  the  Lord  is  not  sus- 
taining the  establishment  of  this  work,  or  that  the  Lord  delayeth  his 
coming,  or,  that  after  all  it  is  only  a  matter  of  opinion.  The  love  for 
things  of  this  world  will  take  possession  of  the  hearts  of  men  even  in 
this  Church  and  blind  their  eyes,  for  the  desire  for  material  things  will 
darken  their  spirits.  But  the  most  damning  thing  that  shall  happen  is 
the  sin  and  transgression  into  which  men  and  women  will  go,  who, 
yielding  to  that  spirit  of  self-indulgence,  will  not  be  able  to  keep  the 
•commandments  of  God  because  of  not  observing  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
and  they  will  weaken  themselves  until  they  shall  succumb  to  a  greater 
and  more  terrible  evil,  the  evil  of  immorality,  which  is  the  end  of 
self-indulgence,  which  has  brought  about  the  destruction  of  men  and 
nations. 

HOW  TO  GAIN  STRENGTH  TO  RESIST 

Yet  the  Lord  has  fortified  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  these  simple 
gospel  principles,  if  only  we  shall  adhere  to  them,  to  enable  us  to  stand 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


when  the  storms  do  blow,  and  when  the  dangers  threaten.  Men  and 
women  who  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  observing  to  abstain  from  the 
things  that  the  natural  appetite  of  men  may  crave,  shall  develop  a 
strength  and  power  to  resist  greater  temptations  when  they  come.  But 
whosoever  has  been  unable  to  observe  this  law  that  is  suited  to  the 
capacity  of  the  weakest  of  the  weak,  may  not  be  able  to  survive  the 
clangers  that  shall  come. 

A  WARNING  OF  DA.NGER 

Now,  I  do  not  want  to  paint  a  dark  picture,  I  simply  want  to  lift 
my  voice  in  warning  as  a  watchman  upon  the  towers  of  Zion,  that  there 
is  danger  ahead ;  that  the  time  of  peace  and  prosperity  of  the  people 
becomes  their  most  perilous  time,  and  has  been'  so  in  all  the  ages  of  the 
past.  And  yet  with  perfect  confidence  I  look  forward  throughout  those 
days  of  individual  testing  to  a  time  to  come  when  vindication  will  arise 
for  those  who  are  true  and  faithful  under  all  circumstances  and  adhere 
to  these  gospel  principles.  It  is  not  an  idle  boast.  We  have  lived  long 
enough  to  see  the  fruits  of  "Mormonism"  in  the  lives  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  by  their  fruits  they >  shall  be  judged,  and  that  is  a  just  and 
righteous  judgment. 

Behold  how  the  application  of  the  law  of  tithing  has  helped  to 
solve  a  problem  for  the  Latter-day  Saints.  It  has  brought  them  into 
the  enjoyment  of  facilities  and  opportunities,  not  only  in  a  religious,  but 
in  a  social  way.  It  has  enabled  the  authorities  of  the  Church  to 
provide  ways  and  means  for  the  social  welfare  of  people  by  the  building 
of  recreation  halls,  by  the  building  of  temples  and  the  building  .of 
tabernacles,  by  the  provisions  such  as  are  not  found  in  any  other  church. 
And  this  by  reason  of  the  fact  that  the  great  majority  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  have  observed  the  law  of  tithing. 

SOLVING  THE  CONFLICT  B.ETWEEN  CAPITAL  AND  LABOR 

That  is  only,  however,  an  incident  along  the  way,  for  all  this  is 
a  training  and  preparation  for  other  things  that  are  to  come.  The 
eternal  conflict  that  has  been  waged  between  capital  and  labor  cannot 
be  solved  nor  shall  it  be  solved  by  all  the  legislation  that  men  shall  enact. 
When  men  become  their  brothers'  keepers,  when  the  love  of  God  is  in 
ihe  hearts  of  men,  and  they  are  willing  to  pay  their  honest  tithing  they 
are  making  a  step  towards  the  establishment  of  an  order  that  obtained 
once  in  the  days  of  Enoch  and  shall  obtain  again  when  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  comes  to  rule  and  reign.  And  there  shall  be  no  rich  and  no  poor. 
The  Lord's  gospel  plan  is  the  true  and  only  solution  of  that  problem. 

GOVERNMENT'S  STRENGTH  LIES  IN  THE  PEOPLE'S  OBSERVANCE  OF  LAW 

I  rejoice  in  every  measure  that  is  put  forth  to  curtail  the  use  of 
alcoholic  beverages.  I  rejoice  to  know  that  at  one  time  at  least  in  the 
history  of  our  own  country  we  rose  to  the  height  that  we  were  enabled 
to  establish  in  the  Constitution  of  the  Cnited  States  a  law  that  prohibits 
the  use  of  liquor  or  strong  drink  which  every  intelligent  man  knows  is 
positively  an  injury  to  the  human  body.    Yet  I  grieve  to  see  a  spirit 


ELDER  MEL VIN  J.  BALLARD 


67 


rampant  in  the  hearts  of  men  who  ought  to  know  better,  to  temporize 
with  and  alter  this  law.  If  we  do  recede  from  the  high  ground  we  took 
when  this  country  made  an  attempt  to  free  itself  from  the  destructive 
influences  of  alcoholic  beverages,  we  shall  start  on  a  downward  program 
that  is  full  of  danger  and  destruction  to  the  people  of  this  country. 

So  far  as  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  concerned,  we  rejoice  in  every 
measure  that  seeks  to  preserve  us  from  these  destructive  influences,  and 
yet  I  recognize  that  all  the  legislation  that  can  be  enacted  will  not  charge 
the  appetites  of  men  or  control  their  will.  If  it  becomes  necessary  for 
us  to  use  half  the  people  of  this  country  to  police  the  other  half,  civiliza- 
tion will  ,be  in  dire  peril.  The  strength  and  power  of  the  American 
government  was  in  the  willingness  on  the  part  of  the  great  masses  of 
the  people  to  observe  the  constitutional  law  and  honor  and  respect  it. 
We  have  been  changing  year  by  year  from  that  time  until  the  present, 
and  never  before  in  the  history  of  our  government  has  there  been  such 
a  police  force  in  use  in  the  nation,  in  the  states,  and  in  the  counties 
and  in  the  cities  to  attempt  to  maintain  law  and  order.  There  must  come 
an  awakened  respect  for  law  and  order  or  we  shall  reach  the  point  where 
51%  of  the  people  shall  be  lawless,  and  then  our  interests  will  be  in 
danger,  our  constitution,  our  privileges  and  our  rights  will  be  in  im- 
minent jeopardy. 

CIVILIZATION  RESTS  UPON  SELF-CONTROL  OF  PEOPLE 

I  heard  an  eminent  economist  of  our  country,  (I  refer  to  Dr. 
Thomas  Nixon  Carver)  deliver  an  address  at  the  commencement  exer- 
cises of  the  University  of  Utah  a  few  years  ago,  wherein  he  discussed 
the  subject  of  how  much  civilization  can  the  world  maintain.  He 
undertook  to  prove,  and  I  believe  he  was  successful,  that  the  present 
civilization  can  endure  only  because  the  majority  of  the  people  of  this 
country  can  maintain  the  power  of  self-control ;  that  a  nation  or  a  people 
who  have  lost  the  power  of  self-control  have  lost  all  possibility  of  preserv- 
ing unto  themselves  and  their  children  a  civilization.  There  was  pub- 
lished last  year  by  Professor  Wiggam,  an  interesting  treatise  upon  that 
very  subject.  He  draws  attention  to  the  fact  that  ours  is  not  the  only 
civilization  that  has  reached  a  glorious  eminence.  He  refers  to  Egypt 
in  all  its  glory,  to  Greece,  and  to  the  civilizations  that  arose  and 
flourished  on  this  American  continent,  that  perhaps  in  some -respects 
excelled  our  own  civilization.    And  said  he : 

"We  need  not  feel  that  we  are  secure  as  the  mountains,  or  that  our 
present  civilization  shall  stand  and  endure  no  matter  what  may  come." 

DANGERS  THAT  THREATEN  OUR  CIVILIZATION 

He  points  out  the  dangers  that  threaten  our  civilization  and  asks 
the  question  whether  or  not  we  have  reached  the  summit  and  shall  begin 
to  recede,  and  whether  there  is  in  humanity  itself  the  power  to  preserve 
forever  a  civilization.  He  said  that  it  is  only  a  short  step,  as  nations 
in  the  past  have  shown,  back  to  the  jungle ;  that  while  there  has  always 
been  an  element,  a  few,  that  have  contended  for  the  maintenance  of 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


these  high  standards,  they  have  been  gradually  absorbed  and  overcome, 
and  the  will  of  the  majority  has  prevailed  and  darkness  has  come  over  the 
spirits  of  men  again.  As  I  read  riis  gloomy  forecast  I  was  filled  with 
this  hope  and  absolute  conviction,  that  the  Lord  God  Almighty  knew 
the  dangers  and  determined  to  preserve  a  civilization  that  shall  withstand 
all  the  troubles  of  the  future.  But  that  civilization  cannot  be  maintained 
by  the  wisdom  of  man.  God  alone  can  do  it,  and  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  alone  is  the  path  and  the  way  and  the  means  by  which  that 
civilization  may  be  preserved. 

KIND  WORDS  FOR  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

This  same  author  that  1  am  referring  to  calls  attention,  in  a  treatise 
of  that  subject,  to  the  strength  and  power  of  the  "Mormon"  Church.  It 
is  gratifying  to  me  to  know  that  while  we  ourselves  know  the  plans 
and  purposes  of  the  Lord  and  have  faith~in  those  plans,  that  men  who 
are  looking  from  the  outside  are  also  noticing  the  fruits  of  "Mormon- 
ism"  in  the  lives  of  the  people.  And  so  it  ought  to  be.  We  should  be 
attracting  the  attention  of  the  world. 

I  remember  that  a  few  years  ago  Dr.  Carver  said  from  this  ver\ 
place  where  I  now  stand,  that  if  he  were  going  to .  search  the  world 
over  to  study  the  highest  state  of  civilization  being  developed  he  would 
come  to  Utah  and  find  it  among  the  "Mormons."  I  discovered  in 
Boston,  during  my  recent  visit  there  with  President  Rolapp,  that  Dr. 
Carver  is  just  as  freely  speaking  there  of  his  findings  among  the 
"Mormons"  as  he  did  here.  For  he  said,  on  his  return  in  1925  from 
teaching  summer  school  in  the  Agricultural  College,  the  philosophy 
of  life  involved  in  the  "Mormon"  Church  is  the  most  constructive  thing 
he  has  seen  in  American  life.  He  sees  only  a  church  which  embraces 
the  whole  faith  and  has  a  tremendous  value  for  the  adherents,  so  well 
is  it  organized,  so  much  is  it  the  center  of  all  community  pleasure,  so 
closely  does  it  endeavor  to  establish  heaven  upon  earth. 

Dr.  Wiggam,  in  his  observations,  has  the  following  to  say  in  Next 
Age  of  Man : 

"There  can  be  little  question  that  in  all  ages  religious  appeal  has  had 
great  influence  upon  the  birthrate." 

He  is  calling  attention  to  the  fact  that  nation  after  nation  is  re- 
ceding in  its  birthrate,  that  decay  is  setting  in  and  the  end  may  be  that 
nations  will  destroy  themselves  by  their  own  suicide  ;  and  in  the  solution 
of  this  question'he  sees  a  ray  of  hope  in  what  he  calls  the  "Mormoh" 
plan : 

"As  an  illustration  the  'Mormon'  people  of  Utah,  under  the  influence  of 
their  religious  belief,  have  kept  up  a  higher  birthrate  among  their  intellectual 
and  professional  classes  than  the  people  of  any  other  state  of  the  Union.  Their 
theology  teaches  that  every  child  that  is  born  means  that  this  act  of  human 
beings  gives  another  soul  its  opportunity  to  pass  from  a  lower  state  of  exist- 
ence through  the  trial  state  of  this  bodily  life  to  a  higher  state  of  spiritual 
evolution.  Dr.  Johnson,  a  professor  in  the  University  of  Pittsburgh  (I  met 
this  gentleman  in  the  east.  He  was  in  one  of  our  meetings  in  Pittsburgh)  be- 
lieves that  the  'Mormon'  religion  is  the  most  eugenical  religion  in  the  world." 


ELDER  MELVIN  1.  BALLARD 


69 


ETERNITY  OF  THE  FAMILY  RELATIONSHIP 

In  this  time  of  trouble  that  is  threatening  not  only  the  peace  of  the 
nation  but  its  life,  in  the  destruction  of  the  home,  the  "Mormon"  example 
is  attracting"  attention,  wherein  we  plan  to  be  united  in  companionship 
not  only  until  death  does  us  part,  but  for  eternity,  which  is  quite  in  con- 
trast to  the  spirit  of  the  age  that  seeks  for  companionship  marriage 
that  may  be  dissolved  at  will,  without  the  edict  of  the  court.  t  Upon 
an  enduring  foundation  we  look  forward  to  the  perpetuation  and  the 
establishment  of  these  unions  throughout  time  and  all  "eternity.  God 
never  could  have  provided  for  the  strength  and  endurance  of  this 
Church  on  a  more  solid  basis  than  he  did  when  he  established  in  it 
the  union  of  families  for  time  that  shalbendure  throughout  all  the  ages, 
and  gave  us  the  conception  that  the  children  who  come  to  us  are  his 
sons  and  daughters,  entitled  as  much  as  we  are  to  the  rights  and  priv- 
ileges of  earth  life,  and  that  it  is  one  step  onward  towards  their  glorious 
destiny. 

There  has  been  inculcated  into  our  hearts,  therefore,  by  the  example 
of  our  fathers  and  mothers,  through  the  observance  of  the  first  great 
commandment  of  God  to  multiply  and  replenish  the  earth,  the  true 
conception  of  one  of  the  chief  purposes  of  life  that  cannot  and  must 
not  be  lost  sight  of  by  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  through  adhering  to  it 
we  shall  survive  and  shall  not  perish. 

THE  KERNELS  OF  LIFE  IN  GOSPEL  TEACHINGS 

So  each  simple  gospel  principle  has  in  it  the  very  kernel  of  life. 
We  need  no  new  revelation.  All  we  need  to  do  is  to  get  a  new  con- 
ception, perhaps,  of  those  simple  gospel  principles  contained  in  these 
doctrins  taught  during  this  conference:  The  observance  of  the  Fast 
day,  thereby  taking  care  of  the  poor  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  also 
providing  for  a  spiritual  growth  and  development  on  the  part  of  the 
membership.  The  adherence  to  these  gospel  principles  shall  bring  hon- 
esty, for  the  man  who  pays  an  honest  tithing  is  inculcating  deep  in  his 
heart  the  elements  of  honesty  such  as  no  other  practice  or  teaching  can 
do.  The  old  "Mormon"  slogan  that  "a  'Mormon's'  word  is  as  good  as 
his  bond"  should  be  the  watchword  of  all  Latter-day  Saints  if  we  are  to 
seek  to  distinguish  ourselves  and  establish  integrity  the  like  of  which  is 
not  known  elsewhere. 

I  think  as  I  said  a  moment  ago,  the  Lord  has  overlooked  nothing 
in  enabling  us  to  realize  these  great  promises.  He  has  selected  the  right 
people.    They  are  the  house  of  Israel,  sons  and  daughtrs  of  Joseph. 

WE  ARE  THE  CHILDREN  OF  JOSEPH 

I  read,  a  few  years  ago,  an  article  by  an  eminent  author  in  one 
of  our  national  magazines  in  which  he  discussed  the  question,  "Are  the 
Jews  the  chosen  people  of  God"?  He  granted  to  them  a  claim  to  all 
the  blessings  that  were  pronounced  upon  their  father  Judah.  "But 
when,"  said  he,  "they  assume  to  be  the  inheritors  of  those  blessings 
that  were  pronounced  upon  his  brother  Joseph,  they  are  usurping  that 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


which  they  have  no  right  to."  And  he  concluded  his  article  with  the 
statement  that  if  somewhere  in  the  world  we  could  find  the  descendants 
of  Joseph,  the  descendants  of  Ephraim,  we  would  indeed  find  the 
chosen  people  of  God. 

WE  SHOULD  THEREFORE  RISE  TO  THE  LORD'S  EXPECTATIONS 

How  we  ought  to  rejoice  in  knowing  that  they  are  found  and  that 
we  are «the  children  of  Joseph.  These  are  the  chosen  people  (if  God, 
and  yet  not  in  boast  fulness,  but  as  the  natural  inheritors  of  ulessings 
and  privileges.  We  should  arise  to  the  Lord's  expectations  ;  and  through 
his  providing  we  ought  to  become  distinguished  and  unlike  the  world, 
a  peculiar  people.  The  Lord  brought  us  to  the  right  place,  in  the  right 
part  of  the  United  States,  where,  with  all  its  natural  privileges  and  ad- 
vantages, there  can  be  developed  an  unusual  race  of  men.  Every 
environment,  every  setting,  every  struggle  through  which  this  people 
have  passed  and  the  very  nature  of  their  employment,  means  that  there 
is  in  these  things  the  building  of  men  and  women  who  shall  arise  and 
shine.  I  am  glad  to  know  that  we  have  the  only  plan,  God's  plan,  that 
would  make  any  people,  I  care  not  who  they  are,  distinguished  people — 
with  inspired  leaders,  with  a  man  to  whom  the  revelations  of  God  are 
given,  to  tell  the  people  what  to  do  next  in  the  unfolding  of  this  program. 
With  such  possibilities,  nothing,  overlooked  on  the  part  of  the  Lord, 
why  shall  we  not  arise  and  shine,  that  our  light  indeed  may  be  a  standard 
to  the  nations,  that  we  may  become  the  salt  of  the  earth?  The  power 
is  in  this  Church,  to  become  a  mighty  people. 

God  bless  us  that  we  shall  treasure  our  heritage,  that  we  shall 
recognize  that  we  are  to  do  an  unusual  thing.  We  are  not  .called  to  be 
imitators,  we  are  called  to  be  exemplars  to  the  world,  a  light  that  shall 
shine  until  the  day  will  come  when  from  the  east  to  the  west,  the 
north  to  the  south,  they  will  come,  not  to  look  upon  our  lands  nor  our 
fields  nor  our  factories,  but  to  learn  of  our  ways  that  they  may  walk  in 
our  paths,  and  thereby  find  peace,  preservation  and  salvation  now  and 
eternally. 

May  God  bless  us  to  keep  our  .eye  upon  our  glorious  destiny  and 
recognize  that  within  our  hands  are  the  means  of  accomplishing  such 
an  end,  and  not  be  blind  to  our  privileges.  The  Lord  help  us  thus  to 
see  his  wonderful  providing  and  go  forward  towards  that  which  is 
ours,  through  our  faithfulness,  and  may  God  grant  it,  I  ask  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

1  ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

During  the  fifteen  minutes  allotted  to  me  I  am  very  anxious 
that  the  spiritual  feast  which  we  have  thus  far  enjoyed  shall  be  con- 
tinued. 

I  recognize  the  practical  value  of  the  principal  theme  of  this  con- 
ference— law  enforcement.    The  Dominion  of  Canada  is  a  country  of 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


71 


law  enforcement.  They  have  celebrated  this  year  the  Diamond  Jubilee, 
or  the  Jubilee  anniversary  of  confederation.  They  revere  the  fathers 
of  federation  as  we  revere  the  fathers  of  our  Constitution.  They  are 
not  unmindful  of  the  comparison  between  the  United  States  and  Can- 
ada in  the  matter  of  law  enforcement.  My  defense  has  been  that  the 
United  States  is  great  in  potentialities,  in  practical  statesmanship,  in 
self-government  and  in  good  common  sense,  and  that  it  is  just  a  ques- 
tion of  a  little  time  when  the  laxity  of  law  enforcement  in  the  States 
will  be  remedied.  There  have  grown  up  too  many  technical  refine- 
ments in  the  administration  of  the  criminal  law,  and  those  refinements 
and  technicalities  will  have  to  be  swept  away  without  impairing  the 
valuable  system  of  judge-made  laws  that  exists  in  the  United  States. 

Canada  can  give  us  an  example  of  law  and  order  upon  the  Sab- 
bath day.  No  newspaper  is  published  nor  even  distributed  on  that 
day,  that  I  have  been  able  to  learn  of  in  my  sojourn  there. 

In  speaking  of  the  missionary  work  in  Canada :  We  do  not  have 
the  background  that  exists  in  many  of  the  missions  of  the  United 
States,  the  background  of  from  five  to  eight  thousand  members  to 
support  the  missionary  work.  The  statistics  of  the  Dominion  give 
our  church  credit  for  having  nearly  twenty  thousand  members,  about 
ten  thousand  of  whom  are  located  in  the  stakes  of  the  Alberta  Province. 
The  other  ten  thousand  I  do  not  know  just  where  fchey  may  be  scat- 
tered. Certainly  there  are  not  more  than  one  thousand  of  them  in 
the  mission  over  which  I  have  the  honor  of  presiding.  We  do  feel 
the  assistance  of  the  few  we  have,  scattered  as  they  are  among  the 
millions  of  population  there,  in  supporting  the  cause.  We  have  young 
ladies  newly  converted  to  the  Church  who  will,  stand  upon  the  street 
corners  and  with  very  fine  courage  give  a  reason  for  the  faith  and 
knowledge  which  they  have.  At  one  of  our  conferences  we  called 
forward  two  young  converts,  one  from  the  Northwestern  .states  mis- 
sion and  one  from  Montreal.  Each  of  them  gave  a  telling  speech  de- 
scribing their  conversion  and  the  great  joy  which  had  come  to  him 
as  a  member  of  the  Church. 

We  are  building  upon  the  work  of  all  those  who  have  gone  be- 
fore— the  work  there  of  President  Grant,  and  Elders  George  Albert 
Smith,  Orson  Ff  Whitney,  and  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  all  of  whom 
have  made  tours  through  that  mission.  We  are  building  upon  the  work 
of  President  ,  Nephi  Jensen,  President  Joseph  Quinney,  Jr.,  and 
the  hundreds  of  elders  and  sisters  who  have  served  there  during  the 
past  decade.  We  are  finding  very  many  encouraging  symptoms.  In 
going  through  the  districts  of  the  mission  last,  month  I  discovered  a 
marked  contrast  between  conditions  existing  now  and  those  of  three 
months  before.  Instead  of  the.  conferences  assembling  in  a  private 
home,  as  was  the  case  in  the  city  of  London,  a  city  of  some  sixty-five 
thousand  people,  we  had  two  or  three  times  the  number  of  people  in 
attendance  in  a  public  hall,  and  some  of  them  had  arisen  as  early  as 
5  :30  in  the  morning  and  traveled  long  distances  to  be  in  attendance 
at  that  conference.    We  have  no  meeting  houses  of  our  own  there,  but 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


we  have  about  reached  a  stage  when  it  will  be  proper  to  have  the  stabil- 
izing influences  which  will  come  to  the  people  by  owning  their  own 
meeting  houses.  I  am  sure  the  Presidency  will  be  just  as  generous 
with  the  Canadian  mission  as  with  any  of  the  other  missions.  They 
have  indicated  that.  They  have  given  token  of  that  in  spending  the 
large  sums  of  money  necessary  to  build  the  Cardston  temple. 

.We  have  a  very  fine  body  of  elders  and  sisters  in  that  mission, 
although  few  in  number.  They  are  of  the  same  quality  as  described 
by  the  brethren  of  the  other  missions.  It  will  save  much  time  for  me 
to  simply  incorporate  in  my  remarks  here  the  same  words  of  just 
praise  that  have  been  given  the  missionaries  in  each  of  the  other  mis- 
sions by  their  presidents  during  this  conference.  These  elders  and 
missionary  sisters  are  of  the  same  cloth,  so  to  speak,  that  these  other 
missionaries  come  from.  They  manifest  good  zeal,  good  spirituality 
in  all  they  have  encountered,  and  when  they  have  made  it  a  matter 
of  fasting  or  of  prayer,  the  end  desired  has  been  attained.  That  was 
the  case  in  the  matter  of  having  the  privilege  to  use  a  Young  Men's 
Christian  Association  pool  to  baptize  in.  As  they  went  back  after 
their  fasting  and  prayer,  without  any  argument,  they  were  accorded 
the  privilege  denied  them  by  the  same  man  shortly  before  their  fasting 
and  their  prayer. 

We  have  experiences  of  interest,  adventures  upon  every  street 
corner  where  we  hold  meetings ;  and  we  are  holding  many  street 
meetings  during  the  summer  months.  The  period  is  very  short  during 
which  it  is  practicable  to  hold  such  meetings  in  that  cold  climate.  Next 
month,  if  not  this,  will  surely  terminate  the  holding  of  street  meetings 
for  the  year. 

While  upon  an  elevator  in  the  Queen's  Hotel,  going  to  luncheon, 
by  invitation  of  a  member  of  the  Rotary  Club,  I  was  introduced  to 
"Jim  Hughes,"  as  they  called  him  in  Rotarian  parlance,  but  no  less 
a  person  than  Dr.  James  L.  Hughes  of  Toronto.  He  said  to  me  in 
a  voice  loud  enough  to  be  heard  by  all  those  in  the  elevator,  knowing 
that  I  was  from  Salt  Lake  City: 

"Are  you  a  member  of  the  'Mormon'  Church?" 

In  a  tone  just  as  emphatic  I  declared  that  I  was.  I  did  not  know 
what  was  coming,  but  he  followed  his  question  and  the  answer  thereto 
by  saying : 

"Mr.  Hart,  dp  you  know  that  I  am  the  first  man  in  Canada  to 
do  justice  through  the  press  to  your  people?" 

He  had  written  a  splendid  article  for  the  Canadian  Magazine 
in  the  April  number,  1904,  under  the  caption,  "My  Misconceptiqns 
of  the  'Mormon'  People,"  or  some  such  heading.  He  had  visited  the 
tabernacle.  Plis  interest  in  the  subject  started  from  an  acquaintance 
with  one  individual,  Sister  Susa  Young  Gates.  He  told  me  that  after 
his  article  was  published  a  preacher  said  to  him,  "Dr.  Hughes,  I  am 
ashamed  of  you  for  writing  the  article  you  did."  And  he  said,  "I  re- 
torted to  the  minister,  T  should  think  you  preachers  would  be  ashamed 
after  all  the  fibbing  you  have  done  and  are  doing  against  the  'Mormon' 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


73 


people.  I'll  tell  you  what  I  will  do.  We  will  get  on  the  train  and  go 
to  Salt  Lake  City,  and  if  you  can  find  a  single  misrepresentation  in 
that  article  I  will  pay  the  expenses  for  both  of  us.  But  if  you  are 
unable  to  find  a  single  thing  in  which  I  have  misrepresented  the  case, 
then  you  pay  the  expenses.  Now,  come  on,  let  us  get  on  the  train.'  " 
The  preacher  would  not  accept  the  challenge. 

We  need  such  information  as  that  and  such  friends  to  remove 
prejudice.  It  is  not  an  unusual  thing  to  find  people  who  at  first  will 
rave  at  the  mention  of  the  "Mormon"  people ;  they  will  decline  to  accept 
a  tract,  will  refuse  to  hold  a  conversation  with  you,  but  by  being  a 
little  patient  with  them  so  as  to  get  our  cause  before  them,  they  soon 
grow  apologetic.  It  is  a  rather  good  sign  when  they  are  so  intense  in 
their  feelings  to  begin  with,  because  after  we  get  the  truth  to  them 
they  are  more  friendly  than  they  perhaps  otherwise  would  be. 

The  missionaries  there  are  laboring  hard.  For  example,  one  of  ■ 
the  elders  purchased  a  second-hand  car,  and  used  it  as  a  means  of 
conveyance  by  day  and  a  bedroom  by  night  for  himself  and  his  com- 
panion. They  presented  the  picture  slides,  giving  archaeological  and 
geological  support  to  the  Book  of  Mormon,  to  2,500  people  scattered 
through  the  eastern  part  of  the  Dominion.  They  traveled  3,725  miles 
and  held  fifty-seven  meetings. 

We  had  a  choice  treat  in  meeting  at  the  Memorial  Cottage.  We 
had  the  honor  of  warming  our  feet  at  the  same  hearth  where  the 
Prophet  as  a  child  had  been  warmed,  whose  destiny  was  to  take  part 
in  the  greatest  single  achievement  of  the  nineteenth  century, — the 
coming  forth  of  the  gospel  and  the  restoration  of  the  holy  priesthood. 
The  monument  to  Joseph  Smith  isN  certainly  a  very  beautiful  creation. 
Those  who  had  to  do  with  it  are  to  be  congratulated.  The  one  hun- 
dred tons  of  granite  are  certainly  in  very  beautiful  form. 

It  is  a  matter  of  regret  to  me  today  that  I  could  not  attend  the 
unveiling  of  the  monument  to  our  Salt  Lake  boys  of  the  145th  Artil- 
lery. I  stood  the  other  evening  viewing  the  Mormon  Battalion  monu- 
ment, and  it  seemed  to  me  it  was  a  beautiful  creation,  and  I  was  im- 
pressed much  as  the  poet  Vachel  Lindsay  was  impressed,  as  recorded 
by  his  traveling  companion,  who  gave  a  description  of  the  Canadian 
temple  by  electric  light  and  moonlight.  For  an  artistic  treat  one 
should  visit  the  monument  not  only  by  day  but  also  by  night. 

We  were  thrilled  at  Cumorah  in  celebrating  the  centennial  of  the 
anniversary  of  the  delivery  of  the  golden  plates.  We  had  the  honor 
to  there  meet  President  Grant  and  several  of  the  mission  presidents. 
Those  who  sang,  those  who  prayed,  and  those  who  spoke  did  so 
in  proper  appreciation  of  the  historic  significance  of  that  occasion. 
The  missionaries,  two  hundred  of  them,  some  of  whom  had  traveled 
a  thousand  miles  to  be  in  attendance,  at  the  invitation  of  President 
Grant,  were  greatly  impressed.  I  am  sure  they  received  a  spiritual 
elevation  that  will  richly  repay  them  for  the  journey.  They  made  that 
journey,  many  pf  them,  by  the  "missionary  express,"  and  they  were 
not  so  modest  as  not  to  remember  the  scriptural  passage,  "Ask  and 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ye  shall  receive."  They  were  cheerfully  driven  by  men  who  acknowl- 
edged that  they  were  not  in  the  habit  of  picking  up  people  upon  the 
highway,  but  it  seemed  to  be  different  to  them  on  this  occasion.  The 
elders  have  preached  the  gospel  as  they  traveled,  and  have  received 
the  appreciation  of  people  of  distinction  who  have  driven  them  for 
hundreds  of  miles.     ■  •  ,  1 

We  were  thrilled. by  holding  the  exercises  in  the  Sacred  Grove. 
I  look  forward  to  the  time  when  that  will  be  made  a  Mecca  more  than 
it  is  now.  I  anticipate  that  the  desire  to  visit  there  will  increase  from 
year  to  year  and  that  they  will  receive  spiritual  exhilaration,  as  they 
contemplate  the  glories  and  wonders  of  the  great  event  that  occurred 
there  more  than  a  hundred  years  ago. 

My  time  has  expired.  May  the  Lord  bless  us,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, and  help  us  to  put  into  this  work  all  it  is  entitled  to  receive,  that 
•  this  glorious  message  may  go  forth  to  all  the  world,  is  my  Prayer,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

William  Holdaway  sang  a  sacred  baritone  solo :  "Asleep  in  the  deep." 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  Supervisor  of  the 
Bureau  of  Information 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  The  Japanese  gentleman  present  this 
morning  on  the  stand  with  us,  was  Dr.  Seiska  Tada  of  the  University 
of  Tokio,  Japan.  He  is  at  the  head  of  all  the  raiyways  of  the  govern- 
ment of  Japan  and  this  is  his  first  visit  to  America.  Doctor  Tada  is 
one  of  the  very  many  distinguished  men  who  have  visited  the  Temple 
Block  mission  this  year.  There  has  grown  up  at  this  mission  a  wonder- 
ful center  for  the  entertainment  of  tourists  who  come  to  Salt  Lake 
City. 

Recently  we  had  a  party  of  German  scientists  who  for  three  days 
kept  coming  to  my  office  to  talk  on  the  subject  of  religion  and  science. 
One  of  these  distinguished  men  was  a  relative  of  the  great  German 
historian  and  philosopher,  Oswald  Spengler,  whose  hook  entitled 
The  Decline  of  Civilisation  in  the  West,  is  one  of  the  out- 
standing works  of  history.  It  is  considered  by  some  to  be  the  most 
scholarly  work  on  history  written  since  the  days  of  the  French  philos- 
ophers of  the  eighteenth  century. 

We  had  the  pleasure  of  conducting  a  party  of  French  actors  through 
the  grounds  one  day  this  Summer,  and  when  we  took  them  to  the  stage 
of  the  old  Salt  Lake  Theatre  and  told  them  the  story  of  the  building  of 
the  great  theatre  in  the  wilderness,  they  were  overcome  by  its  beauty 
and  idealism.  We  have  working  at  the  mission  fourteen  brethren  and 
sisters  who  willingly  give  much  of  their  time  in  coming  to  the  Bureau 
of  Information  to  conduct  tourists  through  the  grounds  and  buildings. 
They  are  very  faithful,  and  are  doing  a  very  important  work. 

We  receive  letters  from  all  over-  the  world  asking  about  Utah  and 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


75 


the  "Mormons,"  and  while  it  sometimes  requires  weeks  to  answer  them, 
information  is  sent  as  requested,  and  many  of  our  letters  have  been 
printed  in  leading  newspapers  of  the  world.  It  is  necessary  that  we 
missionaries  become  careful  and  comprehensive  readers,  for  the  ques- 
tions asked  cover  a  wide  field  of  knowledge  on  religion,  science,  and 
philosophy. 

During  the  months  of  June,  July,  and  August  we  have  averaged  from 
eight  to  ten  thousand  people  a  week.  The  groups  are  cosmopolitan  in 
nature.  One  day  we  had  twenty-two  states  represented,  and  in  another 
group  there  were  thirteen  nationalities  represented.  It  is  our  object 
to  welcome  every  tourist  who  comes  here,  and  to  make  him  feel  that 
we  are  servants  in  God's  house,  and  if  there  is  anything  we  can  do 
for  him  it  is  our  desire  to  do  it. 

During  the  past  year  we  have  had  a  missionary  class  consisting 
of  the  missionaries  of  the  Temple  Block.  To  give  you  an  idea  of  the 
instruction  the  brethren  and  sisters  receive,  I  quote  to  you  one  of  the 
twenty  letters  that  was  placed  in  their  hands  to  study : 

TO  THE  MISSIONARIES  OF  THE  TEMPLE  BLOCK  MISSION 

Dear  Brethren  and  Sisters :  In  conversing  with  a  company  of  tourists  on 
the  Temple  Block,  try  to  understand  the  nature  of  the  people  with  whom  you 
speak.  The  spirit  of  crowds  is  often  very  much  the  same,  and  there  are  some 
dominant  personalities  who  will  lead  the  conversation.  In  conversing  on  the 
GOSPEL,  remember  that  you  can  give  your  views  freely  if  you  will  bring  your 
hearers  to  you.  There  are  always  so  many  vital  truths  common  to  all  people. 
Belief  in  God  and  the  great  work  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord  will  find  a  happy 
response  on  the  part  of  your  hearers.  If  you  speak  about  the  beauties  of  the 
Holy  Bible  and  the  Bible  as  a  work  of  history  and  religion,  you  will  win  the 
people  to  your  side,  and  then  is  the  time  to  explain  something  of  the  GOSPEL 
OF  JESUS  CHRIST. 

Le  me  give  you  an  example  of  how  I  was  able  to  interest  a  crowd  not  long 
ago.  We  were  in  a  museum,  and  a  woman  read  the  words  of  Emerson  inscribed 
on  the  wall:  "MAN  IS  LORD  OF  HIS  OWN  ACTIONS."  As  she  went  to 
copy  them,  she  asked  how  I  interpreted  their  meaning.  The  crowd  was  interested,' 
and  immediately  I  had  the  opportunity  of  explaining  to  her  the  vital  principles 
of  the  ethics  of  the  "Mormon"  people.  We  have  the  right  to  chose  between  right 
and  wrong,  and  the  choosing  of  right  becomes  more  powerful  on  our  part,  as 
we  discern  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ  by  our  lives  and  our  attitude  towards 
the  world  and  humanity.  In  fact,  the  thought  of  Einerson  opens  up  the  whole 
theme  of  the  gospel :  Free  Agency,  Faith  in  God,  the  principles  of  the  gospel  by 
which  we  come  to  know  the  life  that  God  would  have  us  live.  This  was  the  way 
I  interpreted  Emerson's  words,  and  the  people  listened. 

Another  little  folder  we  issued  is  entitled  The  Missionary's  Re- 
sponsibility. 

THE  MISSIONARY'S  RESPONSIBILITY 

Any  faith  that  lasts  will  teach  righteousness  toward  man  as  a  part  of  duty 
toward  God.  It  was  so  in  all  the  past  and  will  be  so  in  all  time.  Thousands  of 
inscriptions  exhumed  in  these  modern  times  teach  us  this  truth  of  the  past 
and  we  have  Christ's  teachings  and  those  of  his  followers  to  guide  the  present. 
In  this  particular  mission  field  on  Temple  Square,  we  come  in  close  contact  with 
people  from  every  nation,  every  creed,  every  race,  every  tongue.  They  come  in 
a  peculiar  frame  of  mind — they  are  curious,  open-minded,  tolerant  and  pleasant 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  without  fear  of  the  petty  worries  and  anxieties  of  every-day  life.  They  are 
en  a  vacation,  free  and  observant;  critical  and  appreciative.  For  these  reasons 
and  many  others  I  believe  this  mission  to  be  the  greatest  in  the  world.  When  they 
leave  us  we  want  them  to  have  the  wish,  the  desire,  the  determination  to  know 
something  of  the  truth  we  believe  to  be  the  everlasting  and  true  Gospel.  We  wish 
to  inspire  them- with  our  ideals,  our  faith,  concerning  what  we  are  and  what  we 
know  we  ought  to  be.  That  "Power  that  makes  for  righteousness"  and  "A 
Power  not  ourselves"  is  the  basis  of  every  reasonable  faith  and  all  durable  hope. 
We  wish  to  impress  them  with  a  knowledge  of  this  Power  as  it  has  been  brought 
to  us  and  as  it  has  brought  our  lives  to  their  present  stage  of  righteousness 
"toward  man" ;  and  knowledge  of  what  God  is  and  what  he  has  destined  man  to 
be. 

We  always  meet  these  tourists  and  talk  to  them  with  this  one  thought  in 
mind :  "Therefore  all  things  whatever  ye  would  that  men  should  do  to  you,  do 
ye  even  so  to  them ;  for  this  is  the  law  and  the  prophets."  To  live  this  law  means 
a  careful  study  of  yourself,  as  well  as  a  careful  study  of  the  attitude,  the  dlind, 
and  the  feeling  of  the  traveler,  the  tourist,  the  stranger,  the  brother  who  comes 
to  you.  We  meet  the  learned  and  the  simple  alike.  The  gospel  to  them  all 
should  be  intelligible,  attractive,  and  convincing,  remembering  always  that  no 
truth  is  really  important  in  our  lives  that  cannot  be  simply  stated.  St.  Paul 
expressed  a  fear  for  the  Corinthians  that  lest,  "as  the  serpent  beguiled  Eve,  their 
minds  should  be  corrupted  from  the  simplicity  that  is  in  Christ."  Robert  Louis 
Stevenson  said,  "My  duty  to  my  neighbor  is  not  to  make  him  good  but  to  make 
him  happy  if  I  can."  Does  not  this  state  Christ's  admonition  in  another  form? 
This  is  simple  and  true.  How  do  we  like  to  be  treated?  Do  we  wish  to  express 
our  views?  To  answer  this  imagination  is  absolutely  necessary.  We  must  for 
the  time  be  the  "other  one."  We  must  develop  imagination  or  we  are  ignorant 
and  dull. 

Loving  God,  loving  one's  neighbor  as  one's  self,  doing  justice  is  what  the 
Lord  requires  of  us.  -It  comes  to 'us  through  study,  which  is  work;  through 
prayer,  through  cultivation  of  imagination,  and  sympathy. 

We  are  very  anxious  that  the  spirit  of  reverence  be  increased  in 
our  hearts,  for  these  buildings  and  grounds  so  that  the  tourists  may 
know  rather  from  a  spiritual  influence  than  by  words,  that  we  have 
sincere  faith  in  Almighty  God.  We  show  the  visitors  this  great  Taber- 
nacle and  our  beautiful  Temple.  Marvelous  buildings,  they  are.-  The 
Latter-day  Saints  were  never  so  happily  inspired  as  when  they  erected 
these  buildings.  A  house  of  God  or  Temple  such  as  this  is  a  "part  of 
the  great  picture  book  of  humanity."  As  I  look  over  this  vast  congre- 
gation to-day,  I  am  reminded  of  the  words  of  the  priest,  Abul-Fazl, 
which  appeared  on  the  portal  of  his  temple  in  Kashmir : 

"Oh  „God,  in  every  Temple,  I  see  people  who  see  Thee, 
And  in  every  language  I  hear,  they  praise  Thee." 

We  are  often  asked  what  these  buildings  represent,  and  the  answer 
naturally  brings  out  the  resourcefulness  and  courage  of  the  founders  of 
the  State  of  Utah.  But  they  signify  something  vital  and  far  more  im- 
portant than  the  average  man  appreciates.  I  want  to  say  that  these 
buildings  express  the  conception  of  the  all-loving  Christ  as  the  Redeemer 
of  fallen  humanity.  This  is  the  thought  that  inspired  the  building  of 
them,  and  it  has  vitalized  every  bit  of  our  creative  work  and  ideals  in 
our  history. 

I  was  impressed  this  morning  by  what  Doctor  Tada  said  to  me. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


77 


He  was  to  have  left  the  building  at  10 :30  and  when  the  hour  came  and 
I  suggested  that  we  go,  Elder  George  Albert  Smith  was  speaking,  and 
Doctor  Tada  turned  and  said,  "I  beg  your  pardon,  but  let  us  wait 
until  the  gentleman  who  is  speaking  finishes  his  devotions  to  his  God ; 
then  we  will  go." 

The  success  in  preaching  the  gospel  of  Christ  lies  in  the  method 
of  approach.  Impressions  are  lasting  things,  and  if  we  can  impress 
the  people  of  the  world  with  the  spirit  of  our  lives,  It  will  go  much 
further  than  words,  "For  he  who  walketh  in  the  light  has  the  truth, 
and  the  light  shineth  upon  the  paths  of  men."  Much  has  been  said  at 
this  conference  concerning  the  ills  of  human  society.  The  social  order 
is  in  a  furor  and  there  are  five  principal  ills  afflicting  humanity.  They 
are  the  unprecedented  challenge  to  law  and  authority ;  hatred  between 
man  and  man;  the  abnormal  aversion  of  work;  the  excessive  thirst 
for  pleasure  as  the  aim  of  life;  and  the  gross  materialism  of  the  day 
which  denies  the  reality  of  the  spirit  in  life. 

I  wish  to  add  a  larger  element  to  this  statement.  Today  there  is  a 
great  misunderstanding  as  to  the  meaning  of  religion.  The  difficulty 
with  the  various  Christian  sects  is  that  religion  does  not  exist  for  the 
saving  of  the  souls  but  for  the  preservation  and  welfare  of  society.  If 
Christ  our  Lord  taught  anything  it  is  the  fact  that  "Pure  religion  and 
undefiled  is  for  the  saving  of  the  souls  of  all  men."  The  trend  of 
modern  sociology  has  resulted  in  a  false  conception  of  the  word 
"religion." 

There  are  three  distinct  things  needed  in  the  world  today  as  forces 
to  spiritualize  humanity.  First,  a  revival  and  adherence  to  the  Ten 
Commaffdments  given  to  Moses  on  Mount  Sinai ;  the  second  is  a  re- 
newal of  faith  in  God  the  eternal  father,  and  his  son  Jesus  Christ ;  and 
the  third  a  divine  knowledge  that  in  this  day  and  age  of  the  world 
the  gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  has  been  restored  by 
revelation.  The  priesthood,  sacred  in  its  gift,  divine  in  its  influence, 
and  spritual  in  its  character,  has  been  given  to  man  directly  by  the  power 
of  God.  These  are  the  three  great  truths  that  must  be  taught  to  the 
human  race. 

The  gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  is  a  champion  of 
the  truth  concerning  the  redeeming  love  of  God,  "and  is  the  custodian 
of  a  particular  and  exclusive  way  in  which  the  redeeming  power  reaches 
man."  To  have  the  right  kind  of  belief  in  the  plan  of  salvation  is  in- 
dispensable to  right  relations  with  God.  We  believe  in  the  infinite 
power  of  the  human  mind ;  we  hold  to  the  truth  that  man  is  divine,  and 
his  personal  power  and  individuality  live  throughout  the  countless  ages 
of  eternity.  1 

I  pray  that  we  may  grow  in  knowledge  and  in  faith ;  and  that  the 
divine  love  of  God  will  lead  us  to  people  with  his  divine  message. 
Amen. 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 

Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church 

I  am  very  grateful  to  be  present  at  this  conference,  as  it  has  " 
been  a  year  since  I  was  present,  not  being  able  to  attend  the  last  gen- 
eral conference  of  the  Church.  , 

Just  a  year  ago  today  (Oct.  8,  1926)  I  left  Salt  Lake  City,  in 
company  with  a  group  of  missionaries,  one  of  whom  was  our  eldest 
son,  who  is  now  in  Germany.  At  that  time  it  was  my  privilege  to  visit 
the  Northern  States  mission  in  company  with  President  John  H.  Tay- 
lor. I  enjoyed  the  spirit  of  missionary  work  manifested  in  the  devo- 
tion of  the  young  men  and  women  who  are  in  the  field. 

I  was  very  sympathetic  in  my  feelings  when  the  mission  presidents 
were  making  their  reports,  and  declaring  to  us  the  testimonies  and 
blessings  that  come  to  the  missionaries  and  to  the  presidents  of  mis- 
sions because  of  their  faith  and  humility  in  the  mission  field.  It  is  a 
sacred  truth  that  the  happiest  time  of  our  lives  is  while  in  the  mission 
field,  and  in  the  faithful  performance  of  our  duty. 

It  is  true,  however,  that  the  Lord  blesses  his  servants  both  in 
the  mission  field  and  at  home,  for  I  am  a  witness  of  the  fact,  and  I 
wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  both  the  Lord  and  my  brothers 
and  sisters  for  their  kindness,  for  I  know  that  it  is  through  the  kind- 
ness of  the  Lord  and  the  faith  of  members  of  the  Church  that  I  have 
thus  far  been  so  greatly  blessed. 

I  am  very  grateful  that  the  Lord  has  extended  his  mercy  to 
me  and  given  me  a  testimony  of  his  work.  I  am  very  grateful  for  the 
privilege  of  doing  what  little  I  can  in  his  service,  because  I  feel  that 
I  am  one  of  trie  weakest  of  the  weak,  and  that  it  is  an  important  privi- 
lege to  labor  in  his  service.  I  am  also  very  grateful  for  the  privilege  of 
standing  here,  in  the  sight  of  those  who  are  members  of  the  Church, 
to  acknowledge  the  hand  of  the  Lord  in  blessing  the  people,  for  I  have 
seen  his  blessings  manifest  as  I  administer  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  and 
to  individuals.  I  know  that  the  Lord  has  blessed  this  Church  and  the 
people  and  that  not  only  has  he  magnified  those  who  are  called  into 
service  and  leadership,  but  he  has  blessed  the  people  in  their  homes, 
in  their  flocks  and  in  their  herds.  He  has  blessed  us  far  beyond  our 
gratitude  and  acknowledgement  of  his  kindness.  He  has  extended  his 
mercy  to  the  sick  and  afflicted,  to  those  who  are  tried  and  those  who 
have  been  deprived  of  many  of  their  privileges. 

I  desire  to  bring  to  your  attention  one  of  the  items  that  is  so 
interesting  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  We  are  told  in  III  Nephi,  17:7-25 
(I  will  not  take  time  to  read  it.  I  think  I  can  tell  it  more  briefly),  that 
the  Lord,  when  he  visited  his  people  on  the  American  continent,  ex- 
pressed his  joy  in  meeting  them  and  his  heart  was  touched  in  kind- 
ness towards  them.  He  blessed  them,  and  we  know  that  they  received 
his  blessings  because  they  gathered  around  him  in  the  spirit  of  appre- 
ciation and  gratitude.  After  he  had  taught  them  pertaining  to  the 
Lord's  Supper  and  had  given  them  the  emblems  of  his  body  and 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


79 


blood,  which  we  call  the  sacrament,  they  further  desired  his  blessings, 
and  as  they  gathered  around  him  they  expressed  their  appreciation  in 
fondness. 

He  desired  to  further  bless  them,  and  so  he  said,  in  words  to  this  ef- 
fect :  Bring  your  sick  and  your  blind,  your  lame  and  those  who  are  af- 
flicted; bring  them  hither  and  they,  too,  shall  receive  a  blessing.  And  so 
they  did.  I  imagine  I  see  them  now,  going  from  home  to  home  or 
from  place  to  place,  tenderly  and  lovingly  bringing  their  sick  and 
afflicted,  and  their  blind  and  those  who  had  caused  them  great  care 
and  anxiety,  and  there,  in  the  love  of  the  Lord  he  extended  his  bless- 
ings to  them  and  healed  and  restored  them.  Then  he  further  directed 
them  to  their  little  children,  that  they,  too,  might  receive  a  blessing. 
They  were  brought,  and  the  people  saw  the  angels  of  the  Lord  minis- 
tering to  their  children. 

This  is  only  one  example  of  how  the  Lord  extended  his  kindness 
to,  the  people  that  once  lived  upon  this  continent.  He  has  been  just 
as  kind  to  us.  I  have  seen  the'  sick  healed.  I  have  seen  the  power 
and  kindness  of  the  Lord  made  manifest  to  his  people.  I  have  seen 
his  blessings  fulfilled  upon  little  children.  I  have  seen  little  children 
offer  their  prayers  for  the  restoration  of  the  sick  and  afflicted,  and 
I  have  seen  those  prayers  answered  immediately ;  so  that  I  know  that 
the  Lord  still  loves  us'  and  is  still  anxious  to  extend  further  mercies, 
if  we  will  only  hearken  to  the  teachings  and  counsels  that  we  have 
received  in  this  conference,  because  the  Lord  in  all  his  kindness,  in  all 
his  anxiety  to  bless  us,  to  heal  our  sick,  to  restore  the  blind,  to  com- 
fort those  who  are  in  distress,  and  to  bless  those  who  are  healthy  and 
well,  is  bound  by  law.  It  is  a  wonderful  thing  for  us  to  have  the 
laws  of  the  gospel,  which  are  the  laws  of  Christ,  given  to  us  in  our 
own  language  and  in  such  plainness. 

,  Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  let  me  plead  with  you  as  members 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  accounted  to  be 
the  most  blessed  people  in  all  the  world  because  of  the  wonderful 
opportunities  that  have  come  to  us,  and  because  of  the  fact  that  we  have 
the  gospel,  the  law  of  Christ,  for  we  have  all  the  blessings  and  privi- 
leges that  the  Lord  in  his  kindness  has  seen  fit  to  grant  unto  us  for 
our  happiness  and  our  progress.  Therefore  we  should  express  a 
greater  appreciation  for  our  blessings  by  greater  diligence  in  serving 
the  Lord,  and  by  further  preparation  for  the  blessings  which  are 
promised  unto  the  faithful. 

I  see  in  our  midst  a  number  of  Lamanites,  commonly  called  In- 
dians. I  am  very  grateful  that  they  have  faith  as  well  as  we  do.  They 
are  descendants  of  Manasseh,  and  we  are  of  Ephraim.  The  Lord  has 
blessed  the  sons  of  Joseph  who  were  sold  into  Egypt,  and  I  was  much 
interested  when  Brother  Pratt  made  his  report  relative  to  the  great 
nation  of  the  house  of  Manasseh,  for  they  truly  are  the  descendants 
of  Joseph,  but  they  are  the  descendants  through  Manasseh,  while  .we 
are  the  descendants  through  Ephraim.  Now,  there  may  be  others 
of  the  house  of  Israel  among  us,  but  the  great  majority  of  people 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


who  love  and  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  upon  both  North  and 
South  America,  are  the  people  of  Joseph,  and  they  are  enjoying  the 
„  blessings  which  were  declared  upon  the  head  of  Joseph  and  his  sons 
Ephraim  and  Manasseh.  So  I  desire  to  call  your  attention  to  the 
kindness  of  the  Lord  in  blessing  this  land  and  the  people  who  live  upon 
it,  both  in  North  and  South  America. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  continue  to  bless  us  and  further  extend 
his  kindness  to  us,  and  magnify  us  in  the  eyes  of  all  the  world,  that 
the  purposes  of  the  Lord  may  be  brought  about  through  our  efforts 
to  serve  him  and  keep  his  commandments.  I  know  that  it  is  a  good  thing 
to  hold  up  to  the  world  our  good  deeds  and  to  strive  diligently  to  make 
our  deeds  better,  and  to  cause  that  our  light  should  shine  before  the 
world,  and  to  honor  the  Lord  and  to  glorify  him.  I  therefore,  desire 
to  put  to  the  front  the  best  we  have,  and  acknowledge  the  hand  of 
the  Lord  for  his  kindness  in  blessing  us  in  our  homes  and  in  our  con- 
gregations, in  our  fields,  in  our  flocks,  and  in  all  that  we  possess.  I 
pray  for  a  continuation  of  God's  blessing  upon  the  land  of  Joseph  and 
the  people  who  possess  it,  upon  President  Grant  and  all  the  leaders 
of  the  Church,  all  who  bear  the  priesthood,  all  who  are  called  to 
lead  and  to  direct,-  that  we  may  further  honor  the  Lord  through  obey- 
ing the  teachings  which  he  has  given  us  in  such  simplicity  and  plain- 
ness, that  we  may  be  recipients  of  his  kindness  and  mercy  even  unto 
the  end. 

I  pray  for  these  blessings  and  leave  them  with  the  Church  and 
with  this  congregation  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

INTRODUCING  STAKE  PRESIDENTS 

With  the  exception  oi  some  of  the  brethren  who  have  been  ab- 
sent, all  of  the  stake  presidents  have  had  the  opportunity  of  offering 
a  prayer  in  our  general  conference.  There  are  still  some  thirty-three 
stake  presidents  who  have  not  had  the  privilege,  during  the  past  five 
years,  some  of  them  during  the  past  seven  years,  of  saying  anything 
in  our  general  conferences. 

I  would  appreciate  it  if  the  stake  presidents,  when  they  cannot 
be  at  our  conferences,  would  notify  us  of  that  fact,  because  it  must  be 
a  little  humiliating  for  me  to  call  upon  brethren  to  pray  or  to  preach 
for  a  few  moments  and  they  not  be  here.  There  are  many  occasions 
when  it  is  not  possible  for  men  to  be  at  these  general  conferences, 
and  I  have  been  very  glad  to  receive  excuses  from  those  who  are 
not  here. 

I  am  going  to  call  upon  some  of  the  brethren  to  make  five-  or 
six-minute  speeches.  Of  course,  I  do  not  know  whether  they  are 
here  -or  not,  but  I  am  going  to  start  with  those  who  have  been  longest 
neglected. 


ELDER  CLARENCE  GARDNER 


81 


ELDER  CLARENCE  GARDNER 

r 

President  of  the  Star  Valley  Stake  of  Zion 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  While  I  feel  my  weakness  and  inability 
in  addressing  you  this  afternoon,  I  desire  to  assure  you  that  I  appre- 
ciate my  standing  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

As  I  look  over  this  congregation  I  feel  that  indeed  it 'should  be 
a  great  strength  to  the  Church  in  going  from  this  conference,  in  carry- 
ing with  one  the  spirit  that  has  been  manifest  during  these  meetings. 
I  .have  enjoyed  to  the  fullest  extent  everything  said  during  this  .con- 
.  ference,  the  wonderful  spirit  that  has  been  manifest  by  the  brethren 
who  have  occupied  this  position.  I  greatly  enjoyed  the  excellent  re- 
marks yesterday  by  the  brethren  who  have  been  called  and  chosen  to 
go  out  into  the  various  parts  of  the  world  to  lead  the  work  of  the 
Lord  in  proclaiming  his  word  to  the  nations  of  the  earth.  My  heart 
is  filled  with  gratitude  unto  the  Lord  that  I  have  had  the  privilege  of 
going  into  the  world  and  bearing  testimony  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
that  Joseph  Smith  is  indeed  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  living  God. 
I  am  grateful  also  that  my  son  has  just  returned  from  a  mission 
after  having  spent  two  years  of  his  time  in  the  Eastern  states  in  rais,- 
ing  his  voice  in  defense  of  the  truth.  I  also  feel  grateful  that  I 
now  have  a  daughter  who  is  in  the  Northwestern  states  mission  labor- 
ing for  the  advancement  of  truth  in  that  part  of  the  Lord's  vineyard. 
I  am  grateful  beyond  words  that  I  have  been  called  and  chosen  to 
labor  in  the  ministry  of  the  Lord  in  one  of  the  stakes  of  Zion.  I  desire 
from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  to  fill  and  magnify  my  calling  in  a  way 
that  will  be  acceptable  unto  our  Father  in  heaven,  and  also  those  who 
preside  in  this  Church. 

I  feel  that  we  are  indeed  a  blessed  people.  I  love  my  adopted 
state,  the  state  of  Wyoming.  I  was  born  in  the  state  of  Utah  and 
moved  to  Wyoming.  I  want  to  tell  you  we  have  a  splendid  people  there. 
Lor  a  number  of  years  in  our  schools,  and  in  our  different  gatherings, 
our  children  would  sing  of  Utah,  "Utah,  the  queen  of  the  West,"  but 
today  after  years  in  that  state  our  children  have  learned  to  sing  "Wyo- 
ming, we  love  thee."  And  we  do  love  Wyoming.  We  have  a  splendid 
people,  and  I  find  in  my  travels  throughout  that  state  that  we  are 
becoming  established  in  every  part  of  it.  Branches  are  being  organ- 
ized in  all  parts  of  Wyoming.  Therefore,  no  matter  where  we  go, 
whether  it  be  Canada,  on  the  north,  or  Mexico,  on  the  south,  or  whether 
it  be  in  these  stakes  and  wards  of  Zion,  we  find  the  same  testimony 
borne,  we  find  the  same  spirit  manifest  in  all  parts  of  the  United 
States.  I  am  grateful  for  this,  and  it  is  a  testimony  unto  me  that  we 
have  the  truth,  that  we  hear  the  same  teachings,  no  matter  where  we 
go.  As  we  meet  upon  these  grounds,  and  as  we  meet  our  brethren  and 
sisters  in  this  conference,  whether  or  not  we  have  met  them  before, 
as  we  take  their  hands  we  feel  that  same  good  spirit  coming  from  them, 
v/hich  to  me  is  also  a  testimony  that  we  are  engaged  in  the  work  of 
the  Lord.  K 


aubui  sb  pus;;B  ubs  j  ;sq;  acloq  i  puv.  'uoisbooo  sin;  J0J  s-1^3^  3A|i  -10} 
Suqquisj;  pue  jbsj  ui  ps;iBA\  3ABq  j     :  SMfsis  pun  udMydAq 

uoi%  jo  aqvts  uifof       ai/?  jo  fuapisa-ij 

nvan  s  iast:  nacna 

'jsijq3  snssj"  jo  auiBu  aq;  in  'A"Bjd  Ajquinq  j  'sn  ayou>[  oqM.  asoq;  jo  saoj 
puB  ;D3cIs3j  sq;  ureS  Aqajaq;  puB  suoijoiAUOD  ;sauoq  jiio  joj  dn  puB;s 
a;  aSBjnoa  jbjouj  aq;  aABq  jaAa  sm  a*bj,\[    ^'iqSu  si  ;BqM  oq  'uoipB 

A\l3A3  JO  SlII>p2;  S3;0U  ;U3]IS  3 -IB  SXl  3A0qB  SpSlIV,,  ;Bq;  J3qiU3UI3J  J3A3 
ABUM  3 AY  }Bqj  puB  'SuOJAV  aq;  }SlliB§B  pi!B  'jqSu  3L[]  JOJ  pUB}S  J3A3  [|B 

abiu  3A\  ;Bq;  iuoj2  jo  q;noA"  sq;  sssjq  a"eui  pjoq  sq;  ;Eq;  Avid  j 

■pdsoS  aq;  jo  sajdpuud  aq; 
aai;aBjd  puB  3A3ipq  oqA\  asoq;  SuiMoqoj  33S  3A\  ;Bq;  sSuissajq  aq;  joj 
puB  'jaqjBj  AmaAEaq  jno  jo  \\itA  aq;  op  o;  Suiaujs  ajB  oqM  sja;sis 
puB  uajqpjq  jo  piiBq  jnjq;iEj  aq;  q;iA\  pajBpossB  aq  o;  aui  o;  paapui 
SinA"ji;BjS  si  ;j  -apEiu  aABq  j  ;Bq;  s;uBuaAoa  aq;  o;un  ana;  puB  ^nj 
-q;iBj  uiBuiaj  o}  ajqB  aq  jaAa  a"euj  j  ;Bq;  ;siu;  j_  puB  'sn  o;un  sjo;bpa3j 
puB  sasss  'sjsqdoid  ajs  SApMj^  aq;  jo  miuonb  aq;  puB  sjopsunoa 
siq  tjjiav  jaq;ago;  ';uBjr)  ■[  .laqajj  luapisaj^  ;Bq;  Auotupss;  b  aABq 
I  }Bqj  [njj[UBqj  uib  j  qadsoS  aq;  3jo;ssj  o;  sA"Bp  js;;bi  asaqj  ui  dn 
pasiBj  por)  jo  ;ueaj3s  b  sbav  q;iuig  qdasof  isqdojj  aq;  ;Bq;  'aABq  j 
A"uomi;sa;  aq;  joj  aaq;B.j  XjuaABaq  Am  o;  paapui  |nja;BJ§  psj  j 

■pdsoS  aq;  o;  aABq  j  ;Bq;  \ye  3ayo  j  05  -XBpo;  axaq  aq  ;ou  p]noA\  f 
s;uaAa  snouo|2  sssq;  aoj  pire  ssaij  |iijq;iBj  apq;  joj  uaaq  ;ou  ;i  pBq 
— A"ba\  aq;  jpj  ;jB3piiBq  b  Suijjnd  'A"a[[BA  siq;  o;  BqBiiiQ  iuojj  Suijjjem  '3isq 
auiBa  puB  jadsoS  aq;  pa;daaaB  oqA\  'jaq;oiu  Am  punoj  A"aq;  ajaqA\  'puB[ 
-Sug  o;  SuioS  qaanqa  aq;  jo  sjapp  ;sjij  aq;  joj  iiaaq  ;ou  ;i  pBq — sA"Bp 
AjJBa  aq;  u;  o;  aiUBa  aq  aouaqAV  iuojj  'q;iaig  qdasof  ;aqdojfj 

aq;  jo  joqqSpu  b  sbav  aq  ajaqM  'ooaiib;^  o;  paAoiu  puB  'pdsoS  aq; 
pa;daaoB  aq  aaaqA\  'aassauuajL  jo  3;b;s  3ai;bu  siq  ui  jsq;Bj  Am  punoj 
SniABq  qaanq^)  sq;  ui  s.ispp  a'jjbs  3q;  joj  U33q  ;ou  ;i  pBj-[  '3jq  in 
ssp  j(B  UBq;  sjoiw  q;jOA\  si  s;uiBg  X'Bp-ja;;Bq  aq;  jo  suoiibuossb  sq; 
auj  oj^  "uoouj3;jb  siq;  ami;  sjqBi-qBA  jnoX  jo  s;u3tuoui  A\aj  b  Xdnaao 
o;  ps>{SB  Supq  jo  jouoq  aq;  3;BpsjddB  j   :  ?Mfsis  puv  uoxi^djiq  fcjq 

uot%  jo  oyvfs  -isqdjW  ai[4  jo  )U3pissjj 

ONiNMoaa  a  aoaoao  Haa^a 

'uatuy  ';suq2>  snsaf  jo  suibu  aq;  ui  A"Bjd  j  'sn  o;un  sSui 
-sssjq  asaq;  ;ubjS  pog  'sn  uodn  ;ssj  ;Bq;  sspipqisuodssj  puB  sspnp  ;bsjS 
sq;  o;  jBnbs  sn  3S[bui  puB  sn  q;iA\  aq  jjim  pjo^j  aq;  ;Bq;  a\ou>[  j  usqj^ 
•ssausnoa;qSu  siq  pire  po£)  jo  uiopSup]  aq;  ;sjij  >jaas  'ajaq  pp?s  uaaq 
SBq  sb  'puB  'uoi2  jo  sa>jB;s  jno  o;  >[3Bq  ;uids  atuBS  ;Bq;  A*jjb3  Xbui 
3av  ;Bq;  'sXbmjb  ;s3jiubui  ussq  SBq  ;Bq;  'sn  o;un  uaAi§  uaaq  SBq  ;Bq; 
;uids  pipuajds  aq;  Xofua  Xbiu-3A\  ;Bq;  'spjBA\  aq;  ui  apissjd  oqA\  ssoq; 
puB  uo;2.  jo  s3>|b;s  sq;  ui  spissjd  oqM  sn  o;un  ;ubj§  poQ  A"bjaj 


3DN3H3JN0D  7VX3N3Q 


ELDER  CLARENCE  GARDNER 


85 


more  conferences  of  the  Church  without  being  thus  embarrassed.  But 
I  do  appreciate  the  confidence  of  my  presiding  brethren.  I  appreciate 
the  privilege  of  coming  here  and  partaking  of  the  spirit  of  this  con- 
ference, and  of  mingling  my  testimony  of  the  truth  of  this  work  with 
those  who  have  spoken  before  me. 

The  message  that  I  would  like  to  leave  with  you  this  afternoon 
is  this:  If,  as  brethren  and  sisters  in  the  wards  and  stakes,  you  will 
avail  yourselves  of  the  opportunities  that  come  to  you  to  entertain 
the  general  authorities  of  the  Church,  and  take  them  into  your  homes, 
I  am  sure  you  will  never  regret  it.  But  on  the  contrary  it  will  be  the 
greatest  influence  in  the  lives  of  your  children  that  can  come  to  them. 
I  speak  as  one  who  was  reared  in  a  home  where  the  general  authorities 
of  the  Church  visited  for  thirty-five  years.  I  believe  that  their  asso- 
ciation, their  example  and  their  teachings  in  my  father's  home  have 
done  as  much  as  any  other  influence  to  inculcate  a  love  of  the  gospel 
in  the  hearts  of  his  children,  and  I  would  like  at  this  time  to  thank  the 
general  authorities  for  their  wonderful  influence  in  my  life  and  the 
lives  of  my  children  and  those  whom  I  love. 

As  has  been  stated  in  this  conference  by  some  of  the  previous 
speakers,  the  strength  of  the  Church  lies  in  the  individual  testimony 
of  its  members.  We  are  not  depending  upon  the  testimony  of  the 
general  authorities  or  upon  the  testimony  of  others,  but  each  of  us  can, 
if- he  will  but  live  for  it  and  study,  gain  for  himself  that  testimony  that 
will  give  .him  a  knowledge  that  this  is  the  work  of  God  in  which  we 
are  engaged.  It  seems  to  me  that  we  have  some  of  the  most  beautiful 
principles  in  the  gospel,  and  that  the  world  should  see  them,  and  some 
of  them  have  seen,  as  was  quoted  from  Emerson,  who  said : 

"The  vice  of  our  theology  is  seen  in  the  claim  that  the  Bible  is  a  closed  book, 
and  that  the  age  of  inspiration  is  past." 

This  great  thinker  recognized  what  was  the  vice  in  their  theology. 
Thank  God  we  have,  in  our  Church,  inspiration,  that  we  have  books 
that  have  come  to  us,  such  as  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  which  make  clear  the  prin- 
ciples taught  in  the  Bible,  and  to  us  the  Bible  is  not  a  closed  book, 
because  we  have  with  us  the  living  oracles  of  God. 

It  is  my  testimony,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  work  we 
are  engaged  in  is  true.  May  God  help  us  to  do  our  duty.  I  desire  in 
closing  to  read  a  verse  from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

"Wherefore,  now  let  every  man  learn  his  duty,  and  to  act  in  the  office  in 
which  he  is  appointed,  in  all  diligence! 

■"He  that  is  slothful  shall  not  be  counted  worthy  to  stand,  and  he  that  learns 
not  his  duty  and  shows  himself  not  approved  shall  not  be  counted  worthy  to 
stand.    Even  so.  Amen." 

ELDER  GEORGE  A.  LITTLE 

President  of  the  Oquirrh  Stake  of  Zion 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters:  This  is  not  altogether>a  surprise 
to  me.    However,  I  was  very  much  surprised  this  afternoon,  because 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  thought  the  time  would  be  occupied  by  the  other  brethren  who  were 
called  to  the  stand.  | 

I  am  pleased  and  proud  of  this  opportunity  of  standing  before 
the  Saints  in  this  general  conference.  It  has  been  my  privilege  to 
be  called  to  preside  over  the  Oquirrh  stake  which  lies  on  the  west  side 
of  this  valley.  It  consists  of  five  wards  and  about  five  thousand  mem- 
bers. We  are  situated  in  the  section  where  the  Utah  Copper  and  the 
American  Smelting  and  Refining  companies  have  their  works.  A 
large  number  of  the  members  of  our  stake  consists  of  men  and  women 
who  are  working  for  these  companies.  A  great  many  transients  come 
into  our  midst.  One  of  the  bishops,  a  short  time  ago,  told  me  that 
there  were  128  recommends  sent  out  of  his  ward  this  year.  We  are 
receiving  new  people  continually  and  others  are  moving  out,  and 
it  is  rather  difficult  for  us  to  keep  our  organizations  in  working  order, 
as  we  would  like  to  have  them.  However,  we  have  a  faithful  people, 
a  class  of  people  who  are  anxious  to  serve  God  and  keep  his  com- 
mandments ;  and  even  though  men  and  women  come  into  our  com- 
munity and  remain  there  only  a  few  months,  we  find  them  to  be  good, 
faithful  Latter-day  Saints,  and  willing  to  do  anything  that  God  has 
asked  them  to  do,  or  willing  to  do  anything  they  are  called  upon  to 
do  by  those  presiding  over  them.  We  appreciate  this.  We  appreciate 
the  spirit  that  exists  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  our  stake. 

What  a  wonderful  privilege  it  is  to  be  a  member  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  It  is  a  .  Church  of  development, 
it  is  a  Church  of  privileges. 

When  the  brethren  were  reporting  their  missions  today,  it  took 
me  back  to  the  time  when  I  was  called  into  the  mission  field,  and  I 
sometimes  feel  .that  I  would  like  to  be  called  there  again.  What  a 
wonderful  thing  it  is  to  go  out  into  the  world  and  preach  the  gospel 
to  the  people,  and  bear  testimony  to  them,  and  to  know  that  the  gospel 
is  true  when  you  are  preaching  it  to  the  people.  When  I  went  to  the 
doors  of  the  people  to  carry  my  message  to  them,  it  was  a  reality 
to  me.  I  knew  as  I  know  today  that  the  gospel  is  true,  and  I  knew 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a  prophet  of  God.  I  knew  that  God  had 
called  his  servants  out  into  the  world  to  preach  the  gospel,  and  1 
could  not  understand  how  it  was  that  sometimes  the  people  could  not 
see  and  understand  that  our  missionaries  were  really  preaching  the 
true  principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  because  of  the  strong 
testimony  that  they  bore  and  the  earnest  desire  they  had  to 
carry  that  message  to  the  people,  and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  that  ac- 
companied th'em  while  they  were  doing  so.  The  young  men  would 
leave  their  rooms  with  determined  looks  upon  their  faces  and  with 
an  anxious  desire  to  find  someone  who  was  seeking  after  truth.  They 
would  go  from  door  to  door  and  find  some  who  would  listen  to  them, 
but  there  were  many  who  would  reject  them. 

1  am  thankful  that  my  father  was  a  pioneer,  and  that  I  was  born 
of  goodly  parents ;  that  mv  mother  was  a  pioneer.  I  am  thankful 
that  I  have  been  born  and  reared  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 


ELDER  GEORGE  A.  LITTLE 


85 


Latter-day  Saints,  and  that  I  was  born  under  the  covenant.  I  have 
a  strong  testimony  that  the  gospel  is  true.  I  am  thankful  for  the 
privilege  of  bearing  my  testimony  to  you  this  afternoon,  and  I  pray 
that  God  may  bless  us,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "The  time  is  far  spent,  there  is  little  re- 
maining." _  ■ 

The  closing  prayer  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Nathan  Ricks, 
The  conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Sunday,  October 
9,  1927. 


THIRD  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

Sunday  Morning,  10  o'clock,  October  9,  1927. 

The  great  tabernacle  which  had  been  comfortably  filled  by  an  ever- 
increasing  number  of  people  during  the  past  meetings  of  this  session  of 
conference,  was  this  morning  filled  in  every  space  both  in  the  galleries 
and  imam  hall,  and  hundreds  were  standing  in  the  doors  and  aisles. 
The  Assembly  Hall,  where  an  overflow  meeting  was  held,  was  filled  to 
capacity,  and  many  were  unable  to  gain  admission  to  either  building, 
and  remained  on  the  grounds  or  in  their  homes  listening  to  the  services 
by  radio. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  announced  that  the  choir  and  congre- 
gation would  sing  the  hymn,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet." 

Following  this  song,  which  was  sung  with  enthusiastic  spirit,  the 
opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Edward  J.  Wood,  President  of 
the  Alberta  stake  of  zion. 

A  duet  and  chorus  by  members  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  sang,  "An 
angel  from  on  high." 

PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

This  is  a  glorious  day  for  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We  live  in  a- 
glorious  land ;  for  in  spite  of  all  the  crime  that  is  committed — and 
it  is  shameful  that  there  is  so  much  of  it — this  is  the  land  of  Zion 
spoken  of  by  the  prophets ;  and  this  country,  especially  this  inter- 
mountain  country,  this  western  country,  is  the  place  for  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  are  a  God-blessed  people.  If  you  don't  think  this  is  a 
goodly  land,  and  a  blessed  country,  go  down  into  Mexico,  our  neighbor 
on  the  south,  or  over  to  Europe ;  go  to  Russia,  to  China  or  Japan,  and 
you  will  return  here  and  say  this  land,  which  the  Lord  in  his  mercy 
has  given  to  us,  is  the  best  in  all  the  world. 

PROGRESS  OF  THE  WORK  OF  THE  LORD 

We  have  heard  during  the  sessions  of  this  conference  concerning 
the  progress  of  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  have  been  much  encouraged  and 
thrilled  in  my  soul  by  the  remarks  that  have  been  made,  showing  the 
evidences  of  the  growth  and  development  of  this  great  latter-day  work. 
We  are  commissioned  to  preach  the  gospel.  Every  elder  of  this  Church 
has  that  mission.  He  should  feel,  as  St.  Paul  expressed  it,  that  "a 
dispensation  of  the  gospel  has  been  committed  unto  me,  and  woe  unto 
me  if  I  preach  not  the  gospel." 

WE  ARE  ALL  MISSIONARIES 

We  are  all  missionaries  in  that  sense,  by  the  power  and  authority 
of  the  holy  priesthood,  and  we  ought  to  be  filled  with  the  spirit  and 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


determination /to  extend  this  work  and  to  build  it  up.  From  almost 
every  part  of  the  earth  come  calls  for  more  and  still  more  missionaries. 
We  can't  get  enough  to  meet  the  demand.  Then  along  with  the  spiritual 
side,  the  necessity  for  more  preachers  of  righteousness,  there  is  a 
growing  demand  also  on  the  material  side  for  more  meeting  houses, 
for  means  to  extend  the  work. 

We  say — and  we  prove  it,  too,  by  our  works — that  we  do  love  this 
great  latter-day  work  of  the  Lord.  But  do  we  do  all  that  we  should 
for  it?  The  test  of  love,  after  all,  is  what  will  you  do  for  the  thing 
you  love,  the  person  you  love,  the  institution  you  love,  the  country  you 
love?  How  much  will  you  do  for  it?  ,  Will  you  give  your  life  for  it? 
Will  you  give  up  your  means  for  it  ? .  To  what  extent  will  you  help  to 
build  it  up  in  a  material  way?  This  tabernacle,  for  example,  was  not 
built  simply  by  preaching  and  praying.  It  was  built  by  hard  labor.  It 
took  material,  it  took  work,  it  took  means. 

BUILDING  MEETING  HOUSES 

We  have  heard  from  the  president  of  the  Church"  down  through 
the  presidents  of  stakes  and  presidents  of  missions,  of  the  wonderful 
development  that  has  occurred  in  the  building  -of  meeting  houses  in 
the  Church.  Let  me  just  give  you  some  figures.  I  will  read  first  the 
expenditure  for  meeting  house  purposes  in  all  the  Church  for  the  year 
1917.  That  is  ten  years  ago  and  the  people  were  doing  well  then, 
according  to  the  means  they  had.  The  entire  appropriation  for  meet- 
ing houses  for  that  year,  1917,  was  one  hundred  sixty-eight  thousand 
dollars.  Now,  in  nine  months  of  this  year,  just  to  the  end  of  Septem- 
ber, the  trustee-in-trust  has  paid  out  in  appropriations  for  stake  and 
ward  meeting  houses,  seven  hundred  and  fifty  thousand  dollars.  For 
the  same  period  last  year,  1926,  it  was  four  hundred  thousand  dollars. 
So  you  see  the  amount  appropriated  for  that  activity  alone,  the  building 
of  meeting  houses,' has  been  enormous.         ,  . 

I  hope  the  time  will  never  come  when  there  will  not  be  a  call  for 
more  meeting  houses,  because  if  such  a  time  should  come,  there  would 
be  no  more  growth.'  Since  we  expect  to  grow  and  expand  and  to  keep 
on  growing  and  expanding,  there  will  necessarily  be  additional  calls 
for  more  meeting  houses  and  more  elders  to  preach  the  gospel. 

ROOM  FOR  IMPROVEMENT  IN  PAYMENT  OF  TITHING 

One  other  item :  Comparing  the  tithing  of  1926  with  that  of  1917, 
it  shows  an  increase  in  nine  years  of  about  forty  per  cent  only,  whereas 
the  appropriation  for  meeting  houses  increased  in  the  same  period  be- 
tween four  and  five  hundred  per  cent.  I  have  not  included  the  ap- 
propriations that  have  been  made  for  meeting  houses  built  in  the  mis- 
sions. That  is  additional.  I  will  not  take  the  time  to  go  into  the  details 
of  the  figures,  nor  in  the  increase  of  Church  population,  etc;  it  would 
take  too  long.  But  the  point  is  that  all  this  requires  means,  and  I  am 
under  covenant,  and  you  are  under  covenant,  to  furnish  the  means  to 
build  up  this  Church.    How?  By  tithes  and  offerings. 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


In  the  observance  of  this  principle  nearly  every  member  of  the 
Church  can  improve,  can't  we?  How  many  hundreds  are  there,  not 
thousands,  but  how  many  hundreds  are  there  in  the  whole  Church  who 
pay  strictly  and  exactly  one- tenth  of  all  their  interest?  The  revelation 
says  one-tenth  of  all  your  interest  annually.  How  many  of  us  do  it? 
There  are  some,  of  course,  but  there  are  not  many  who  cannot  improve 
and  perform  more  fully  this  duty  in  respect  to  this  matter. 

The  Lord  commanded  the  law  of  tithing  in  ancient  times.  He 
has  revealed  it  to  us  in  this  dispensation.  You  may  read  in  Genesis 
that  first  of  all,  Abraham,  Jacob's  grandfather,  paid  tithes  of  all  that 
he  had  to  Melchizedek;  and  then  Jacob,  the  father  of  the  twelve  tribes 
of  Israel,  made  this  covenant  with  the  Lord :  "Of  all  that  thou  shalt 
give  me,  I  will  surely  give  the  tenth  unto  thee."  In  Leviticus  27 :32,  the 
Lord  says  this  concerning  the  tithe  of  the  herd  and  of  the  flock,  "the 
tenth  shall  be  holy  unto  the  Lord."  Solomon,  in  Proverbs,  3rd  chapter, 
9th  verse,  says : 

"Honor  the  Lord  with  thy  substance,  and  with  the  first  fruits  of  thine 
increase.  So  shall  thy  barns  be  filled  with  plenty,  and  thy  presses  shall  burst  out 
with  new  wine." 

In  the  last  book  of  the  Old  Testament  the  Lord,  speaking  through 
the  Prophet  Malachi,  reproved  the  Saints  in  that  day.  I  don't  think 
we  need  such  a  stern  rebuke  as  he  gave  them,  but  these  were  his  words : 

"Will  a  man  rob  God?  Yet  ye  have  robbed  me.  But  ye  say,  Wherein  have 
we  robbed  thee?  In  tithes  and  offerings.  *  *  *  Bring  ye  all  the  tithes  into 
the  storehouse,  that  there  may  be  meat  in  mine  house,  and  prove  me  now  herewith, 
saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  if  I  will  not  open  you  the  windows  of  heaven,  and 
pour  you  out  a  blessing,  that  there  shall  not  be  room  enough  to  receive  it." 

THE  LORD'S  REQUIREMENT 

Here  was  a  challenge  to  them  to  prove  the  Lord.  That  same  chal- 
lenge is  open  to  every  Latter-day  Saint  today. 

"And  I  will  rebuke  the  devourer  for  your  sakes,  and  he  shall  not  destroy 
the  fruits  of  your  ground ;  neither  shall  your  vine  cast  her  fruit  before  the  time 
in  the  field,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts. 

"And  all  nations  shall  call  you  blessed,  for  ye  shall  be  a  delightsome  land, 
saith  the  Lord  of  hosts." 

You  can  read  the  revelation  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
with  respect  to  this  principle  of  tithing,  and  that  same  thought  occurs 
in  it,  namely,  that  if  you  will  pay  your  tithing  the  very  land  shall  be 
sanctified  and  shall  be  made  holy.  Let  me  take  occasion  to  read  a  little 
of  this  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  given  in  July,  1838: 

"Verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord,  I  require  all  their  surplus  property  to  be  put 
into  the  hands  of  the  bishop  of  my  Church  in  Zion. 

"And  this  shall  be  the  beginning  of  the  tithing  of  my  people. 

"And  after  that,  those  who  have  thus  been  tithed  shall  pay  one-tenth  of  all 
their  interest  annually ;  and  this  shall  be  a  standing  law  unto  them  forever  ior 
my  holy  priesthood,  saith  the  Lord. 

"Verily  I  say  unto  you,  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  all  those  who  gather  unto 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


89 


the  land  of  Zion  shall  be  tithed  of  their  surplus  properties,  and  shall  observe 
this  law,  or  they  shall  not  be  found  worthy  to  abide  among  you. 

"And  I  say  unto  you,  If  my  people  observe  not  this  law,  to  keep  it  holy  and 
by  this  law  sanctify  the  land  of  Zidn  unto  me,  that  my  statutes  and  my  judgments 
may  be  kept  thereon,  that  it  may  be  most  holy,  behold,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  it 
shall  not  be  a  land  of  Zion  unto  you. 

"And  this  shall  be  an  ensample  unto  all  the  stakes  of  Zion." 

THE  SAVIOR'S  VIEW  ON  TITHING 

We  have  the  commandment  from  the  prophets  of  old,  and  here  also 
is  the  command  through  the  prophet  of  the  last  dispensation.  I  know 
it  is  contended  by  some  people  that  the  Savior  in  restoring  the  fulness 
of  the  gospel  in  his  dispensation  did  not  insist  on  the  law  of  tithing, 
and  that  it  was  done  away  in  the  law  of  Moses,  etc.  Anyone  who 
takes  that  position  is  entirely  wrong,  for  here  is  the  word  of  the  Savior 
rimself,  in  the  gospel  according  to  St.  Luke,  11:42: 

"But  woe  unto  you,  Pharisees !  for  ye  tithe  mint  and  rue  and  all  manner 
of  herbs,  and  pass  over  judgment  and  the  love  of  God;  these  ought  ye  to  Have 
done,  and  not  to  leave  the  other  undone." 

In  other  words  pay  your  tithing,  ,of  course,  but  don't  go  around 
boasting  about  it  as  you  do.  This  ye  ought  to  have  done,  said  he,  and 
the  other  ye  ought  not  to  have  left  uundone.  So  there  is  the  positive 
injunction  of  the  Savior  of  the  world  that  the  principle  of  tithing  shall 
be  observed. 

HAVE  FAITH  TO  PROVE  THE  LORD 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  my  testimony  is  that  I  could  always  get 
along  better  and  be  more  prospered,  more  blessed  and " certainly  more 
satisfied  in  my  heart  and  soul,  at  the  end  of  the  year,  if  I  got  along  with 
90  per  cent  and  gave  the  Lord  his  ten  per  cent.  I  have  tried  to  do  that ;  ! 
not  perfectly,  not  as  I  should,  but  I  have  done  it  well  enough  to  prove 
the  Lord.  I  accepted  the  challenge  which  he  made  through  Malachi : 

"Try  me  and  prove  me  herewith,  if  I  will  not  open  you  the  windows  of  heaven, 
and  pour  out  j&  blessing,  that  there  shall  not  be  room  enough  to  receive  it." 

I  have  proved  the  truth  of  it  in  my  own  experience  and  to  my  own 
satisfaction.  I  know  there  are  those  who  quibble  about  it  and  say: 
"Will  90  pounds  of  flour  go  as  far  as  100  pounds  of  flour?  Will 
$90  go  as  far  as  $100?  If  you  are  spending  a  dollar  a  day,  will  not 
the  one  amount  last  100  days  and  the  other  last  only  90  days  ?" 

Yes,  mathematically  you  are  correct,  but,  spiritually  and  counting 
faith  in  God  and  in  his  promises,  you  are  all  wrong.  For  "without  faith 
it  is  impossible  to  please  God."  You  may  take  as  a  sample  a  couple 
■  of  men  working— I  have  in  mind  two  such  men  now.  One  spends  all 
his  means,  and  hasn't  enough  to  pay  tithes,  he  thinkjs.  The  other 
struggles  along  and  pays  his  tithing.  At  the  end  of  the  year  the  one 
who  has  paid  his  tithing  is  better  off  somehow  or  other.  He  has  had 
less  sickness,  less  of  what  we  call  bad  luck,  and  a  better  "break"  as  they 
phrase  it,  than  the  other  man  has  had  at  the  end  of  the  year. 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

SANCTIFY  THE  LAND  OF  ZION  KEEP  THE  COMMANDMENTS 

I  bear  witness  before  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  if  we  keep 
that  law,  the  Lord,  just  as  he  has  promised,  will  sanctify  the  very  land, 
and  it  shall  be  the  land  of  Zion  to  us.  It  is  a  land  of  Zion  to  the  man 
who  has  paid  his  tithing  honestly  before  God.  He  feels  it  in  his  soul. 
He  feels  that  he  is  dwelling  on  a  blessed,  happy,  prosperous  land.  He 
knows  that  he  is  keeping  the  commandment  of  the  Lord.  Do  you  not 
think  the  Lord,  by  his  Spirit,  will  sanctify  and  bless  the  very  land  for 
us  according  to  his  promise?  I  know  he  will,  I  feel  that  way  when  1 
come  on  this  block.  Time  and  again,  especially  if  I  am  alone,  my  hat 
goes  off  in  reverence  as  I  step  inside  the  wall.  Why?  Because  I  feel 
in  my  heart  and  in  my  soul  that  the  very  ground  upon  which  I  stand  is 
holy,  sacred  unto  the  Lord.  It  has  been  blessed  by  the  ppwer  of  the  holy 
priesthood  and  it  is  sanctified,  so  that  the  spirit  of  reverence,  the  spirit 
of  thankfulness  to  God  comes  over  me,  and  off  comes  my  hat,  in 
token  of  that  reverence. 

I  know,  too,  that  in  our  homes,  with  our  farms,  in  our  merchandis- 
ing and  all  that  we  have,  if  we  keep  this  law,  we  will  sanctify  to  the 
Lord  the  land  upon  which  we  dwell,  the  homes  in  which  we  live,  and 
all  that  we  engage  in;  and  we  will  feel  the  influence  of  his  spirit  and 
know  by  the  power  of  the  living  God  that  we  are  helping  to  build  up 
his  work,  far  more,  of  course,  than  we  would  if  we  fail  to  obey  this 
commandment. 

HOW  THE  TITHING  IS  EXPENDED 

I  repeat,  means  are  called  for  as  well  as  prayers.  Prayers  are 
necessary,  preaching  is  necessary,  but  it  takes  work,  it  takes  means  to 
build  up  the  kingdom  of  God. 

I  have  just  given  you  enough  figures  to  illustrate  how  the  means 
are  expended.  I  could  give  a  great  many  mbre  items.  In  closing,  I 
just  want  to  take  occasion  to  say  that  the  funds  that  you  give  to  the 
Trustee-in-Trust  of  the  Church  are  honestly  and  wisely  expended  with 
absolute  integrity  and  sincerity  of  purpose,  supplemented  by  the  wisdom 
that  the  Lord  gives.  No  man  or  set  of  men  could  expend  them  with 
greater  care.  I  know  that.  I  have  known  it  for  twenty  years,  for  I 
have  been  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric  and  with  the  President  of  the 
Church  since  that  time.  You  can  strust  these  men  implicitly.  They 
have  not  the  first  selfish  thought  for  themselves  with  respect  to  any 
of  the  means.  Every  penny  is  as  sacred  as  if  it  were  held  by  any  of 
your  own  family.  You  can  depend  upon  that.  President  Grant  is 
almost  an  exception  among  men  in  this  regard.  He  almost  leans  over 
backwards  in  the  strictness  of  his  integrity  and  honesty. 

PROVE  THE  LORD  IN  THE  PROPER  SPIRIT 

Now  I  have  taken  all  the  time  I  should.   The  Lord  bless  Zion,  bless 
latter-day  Israel.    May  we  as  members  of  the  Church  resolve  now  once 
again  in  our  hearts  and  souls  that  we  will  prove  him,  not  in  the  way  ■ 
of  challenge,  not  in  the  way  of  saying :    "Here,  I  am  giving  you  some- 

/ 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  IV.  NIBLEY 


91 


thing,  and  I  want  a  whole  lot  more  in  return."  No,  that  kind  of  spirit 
itv  paying  tithes  will  not  get  you  any  blessing.  The  Lord  loveth  a 
cheerful  giver — one  who  can  go  to  the  bishop  and  say :  "Bishop,  I 
feel  all  right.  I  want  to  help  the  Church.  I  am  going  to  do  all  I  can. 
Here  is  my  tithing,  my  full  tithing.  I  want  to  build  up  this  work  and 
be  the  means  of  helping  it."  If  he  goes  in  that  spirit,  thankful  for 
what  he  has  received,  he  will  obtain  the  blessing.  But  let  him  not  give 
something  merely  in  the  hope  of  getting  more  in  return,  for  that  spirit 
will  not  do  at  all.  Let  him  give  in  this  spirit :  "Lord,  thou  hast  blessed 
me.  Here  is  thy  portion.  Of  all  that  thou  wilt  give  unto  me,  I  will 
surely  give  a  tenth  unto  thee."   The  Lord  bless  you.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  an  anthem :  "The  earth  is  the  Lord's  and  the  ful- 
ness thereof." 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

MESSAGE  OF  THE  WORD  OF  WISDOM 

I  know  of  nothing  wiser  than  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  I  regard  this 
great  message  from  the  Lord  as  being  one  of  the  most  distinctive  and 
one  of  the,  most  vital  contributions  coming  to  the  world  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Like  all  great  messages  and  documents  it  con- 
notes even  more  than  it  denotes.  It  is  given  in  sufficient  detail  to 
obviate  all  ambigtiilty,  and  at  the  same  time  it  is  sufficiently  general  to 
have  application  to  many  phases  of  life  and  to  all  of  those  items  which 
enter  into  clean  living.  It  proceeds  upon  the  assumption  that  the 
greatest  thing,  in  life  is  living,  and  that  the  most  indispensable  thing,  to 
good  living  is  health — bodily,  mental  and  spiritual. 

We  cannot  contemplate  a  good  man  who  does  not  have  respect 
for  the  sacred  institution  of  his  body.  God  has  given  to  us  in  this 
dispensation  a  new  conception  of  the  body  of  man.  It  is  something 
more  than  earth  and  the  elements  of  earth.  We  believe  that  the  spirit 
is  the  literal  child  of  God,  that  it  comes  to  earth  in  divine  providence 
to  take  on  mortality,  that  while  here  it  is  housed  in  a  tabernacle, 
that  that  tabernacle  itself  is  made  through  the  beneficient  provision 
of  the  Creator  in  his  own  likeness.  In  that  conception  no  one  may" 
defile  the  tabernacle,  wherein  dwells  the  spirit,  without  offering  affront 
to  God  who  gave  it.  He  cannot  pollute  his  body  with  poisonous  or 
disintegrating  substances  without  committing  an  offense  against  his 
God  and  his  Creator. 

SENT  BY  WAY  OF  GREETING 

The  Word  of  Wisdom  has  come  to  us  in  what  seems  to  me  the 
most  excellent,  the  most  pleasing  manner  possible  to  give  a  message.  It 
came  by  way  of  greeting  to  the  Saints,  not  by  way  of  constraint — so 
it  states — in  which  respect  it  has  seemed  to  me  to  be  comparable  to  the 
greatest  messages  which  came  from  the  Redeemer  of  the  world  when 
in  the  flesh  he  spoke  to  mankind.  It  rings  with  the  same  spirit  as 
do  the  Beatitudes,  wherein  the  Christ  said,  not  by  way  of  constraint, 
not  in  the  thunder  of  commandment,  but  in  that  lovely  spirit  which 


* 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


characterized  his  ministry :  "Blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart,  for  they 
shall  see  God.  Blessed  are  the  merciful,  for  they  shall  obtain  mercy." 
So  he  gave  to  us  this  fundamental  message  of  life  and  health  and 
strength  and  purity,  "as  a'  principle  with  promise." 

Is  it  less  binding  upon  us ;  does  it  constrain  us  the  less,  because 
the  Lord  has  said  that  it  is  pleasing  unto  him  that  we  should  do;  the 
things  here  enumerated  and  avoid  the  things  here  enjoined? 

SPIRIT  AND  BODY  CLOSELY  RELATED 

Within  it  comes  to  me  the  very  genius  of  the  philosophy  of  the 
gospel.  Where  is  the  man,  impure  in  body  and  defiled,  within  whom 
may  dwell  the  Spirit  of  the  Most  High?  Is  there  not  the  closest  of 
relation  between  the  condition  of  our  tabernacles  and  the  spirits  which  . 
therein  reside?  I  take  it  that  one  of  our  supreme  messages  to  the  whole 
world  is  the  word  which  comes  from  this  transcendent  statement  of  the 
fundamentals  of  our  very  faith :  Keep  clean  your  bodies  and  undefiled, 
in  order  that  you  may  serve  God  and  work  out  your  destiny  in  mortality. 

We  have  heard  considerable  during  this  conference  relative  to 
the. disorders  of  society  and  the  great  iniquity  which  prevails  in  the  land. 
If  it  were  possible  to  make  a  survey  of  all  those  who'  have  been  quilty 
of  infraction  of  the  law,  and  who  have  perpetrated  crimes  against 
society,,  we  should  not  find  that  the  perpetrators  of  these  offenses  were 
men  and  women  who  have  had  sacred  regard  for  the  tabernacle  of  their 
spirits  and  kept  clean  their  bodies  which  God  gave  to  them. 

The  most  serious,  the  direst  consequences  which  follow  an  infrac- 
tion of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  in  my  judgment,  are  spiritual,  rather  than 
physical;  for  while  the  body  may  be  impaired,  the  spirit  suffers  most. 
When  the  boy  begins  to  smoke  he  usually  ceases  to  pray,  and  when  he 
ceases  to  pray  he  loses  contact  not  only  with  our  Father  in  heaven 
and  his  uplifting  influence,  but  he  often  becomes  estranged  from  his 
family  and  the  best  people  and  is  thrown  into  environment  which  fre- 
quently brings  his  downfall. 

TEACH  PURITY  AND  CLEANLINESS  OF  LIFE 

So,  my  brethren  and  my  sisters  of  theChurch,  I  charge  you  to  go 
forth  among  the  youth  of  Zion  and  give  to  them  the  lofty  conception 
that  we  have  of  the  bodies  which  God  in  his  kindness  has  given  to  us. 
Do  all  that  lies  within  your  power  to  keep  them  from  polluting  these 
sacred  institutions.  Exhort  them  to  preserve  their  purity  for  efficient 
service  in  the  kingdom  of  our  Father,  for  if  they  keep  clean  they  will 
be  fit  instruments  for  the  working  out  of  the  great  purposes  of  our 
Lord.  Let  us  devote  our  time  and  our  energy,  our  preaching  and  our 
teaching,  to  the  cleanliness  of  life  that  follows  the  keeping  of  the  Word 
of  Wisdom.  I  pray  also  that  the  message  which  comes  from  this  great 
and  remarkable  statement  given  to  us  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
may  go  beyond  the  confines  of  the  Church  into  all  corners  of  the 
earth,  that  men  and  women  may  understand  that  they  are  created  in  the 
image  of  God  and  have  sacred  obligation  to  preserve  that  image  in  all 
respects. 


* 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


93 


"We  love  God.  As  we  love  him  we  will  do  what  he  asks.  He  has 
asked  us  in  the  most  kind  and  affectionate  way  to  do  these  things  for 
our  own  welfare,  for  our  prosperity,  for  our  spiritual  growth  and  de- 
,  velopment,  for  the  preparation  we  need  to  make  to  carry  forward 
his  great  work,  to  preach  the  gospel  in  its  fulness,  and  to  give  to  man- 
kind proper  conceptions  of  life.  Surely  as  we  love  him  we  will  follow 
his  admonition  and  yield  to  his  kindly  persuasion.  I  pray  that  his 
spirit  may  attend  us  in  the  keeping  of  our  bodies  pure  and  immaculate, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE.  F.  RICHARDS 

It  is  exceedingly  gratifying  to  those  who  have  responsibility  for  the 
-  conduct  of  this  great  latter-day  work  to  witness  the  large  attendance  at 
'  this  conference,  this  large  Tabernacle  being  filled  to  overflowing,  as 
well  as  the  Assembly  Hall,  and  great  crowds  of  people  on  the  grounds, 
perhaps  thousands.  And  this,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  a  great 
many  people  in  their  homes  today  are  hearing  the  proceedings  of  the 
conference  through  their  radio  sets. 

SALVATION  AN  IMPORTANT  QUESTION 

I  have  been  edified  and  built  up  by  what  I  have  felt  and  heard 
during  the  sessions  of  this  conference.  My  heart  has  been  made  to 
rejoice  exceedingly.  Every  speaker  has  spoken  upon  some  one  or  more 
phases  of  the  gospel,  and  the  gospel  is  given  us  that  we  might  know 
what  salvation  is  and  how  we  may  attain  that  boon  and  blessing.  There 
is  no  other  question  of  such  great  importance  to  mankind  as  that  of 
salvation,  of  what  it  consists  and  how  it  may  be  attained.  There  is 
no  other  question  that  has  engaged  the  attention  of  so  many  people 
as  that  of  salvation,  and  perhaps  there  is  no  other  question  upon  which 
there  has  been  such  a  diversion  of  views  and  opinions.  As  I  understand 
it,  this  is  the  cause  of  there  being  so  many  religious  sects,  creeds  and 
denominations  upon  the  earth  today,  and  this  fact  is  strange  when  we 
think  that  all  these  religionists  have  based  their  views  and  established 
their  creeds  and  denominations  upon  a  belief  in  the  Bible,  and  its 
doctrines. 

WHY  SO  MANY  CREEDS? 

It  seems  to  call  for  an  answer  to  the  question:  Why'is  it  so? 
And  I  am  reminded  of  the  sayings  of  the  scripture  that  prophecy  came 
not  in  olden  time  by  the  will  of  man,  but  holy  men  of  God  spake  as 
they  were  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost.  The  contents  of  the  Old  and 
New  testaments,  then,  are  the  things  of  God  given  to  the  children  of 
men  by  the  inspiration  of  the  Hbly  Ghost.  The  trouble  with  men 
today,  and  the  cause  of  this  spiritual  darkness  that  is  found  everywhere 
throughout  Christendom  is  that  men  lack  that  spirit,  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  that  was  enjoyed  by  the  prophets  who  wrote  and  spoke 
t:he  things  contained  in  that  sacred  book,  the  Bible.  If  we  had  the 
same  spirit,  the  same  measure  of  that  spirit,  we  would  understand  as 
they  understood,  and  we  would  all  understand  alike. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


REPENTANCE  NECESSARY 

Why  do  we  not  get  the  Htjjy  Spirit,  the  measure  necessary  to 
understand  these  things  aright?  The  answer  is  that  we  have  not  taken 
the  course  that  is  indicated  by  the  gospel,  by  the  scriptures,  to  obtain  it. 
A  man  must  be  born  again  in  order  to  even  see  the  Kingdom  of  God. 
He  must  be  born  of  water  and  of  the  spirit,  to  receive  the  Holy  Ghost 
in  the  measure  that  it  was  enjoyed  by  the  prophets  who  gave  us  the 
word  of  the  Lord  contained  in  the  holy  scriptures.  We  must  be  born 
again,  first  of  the  water  and  then  of  the  spirit,  but  before  we  can 
receive  these  ordinances  and  these  great  blessings,  our  faith  in  God 
must  be  such  as  will  be  approved  of  him,  that  will  lead  us  to  do  the 
things  that  he  would  have  us  to  do,  as  fast  as,  they  are  made  known 
unto  us.  We  must  have  that  faith  that  will  lead  us  to  forsake  evil 
and  wrong-doing  of  every  kind,  tp  repent  of  our  sins,  to  right  the 
wrongs  which  we  have  done,  as  far  as  it  lies  in  our  power,  and  to  for- 
give our  fellowmen  who  have  trespassed  against  us,  even  as  we  desire 
to  be  forgiven.  Then  when  we  receive  the  ordinance  of  baptism  by 
immersion,  by  one  having  authority,  and  have  hands  laid  upon  our 
heads  for  the  bestowal  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  confirmation  to  member- 
ship in  the  Church  of  Christ,  our  sins  are  washed  away,  the  Holy  Spirit 
comes  upon' us,  even  the  Holy  Ghost,  whose  office  it  is,  and  his  mission 
is  to  bear  witness  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  truth  of 
all  things. 

OUR  MISSION  TO  MAKE  PLAIN  THE  WAY  OF  SALVATION 

Our  mission  as  Latter-day  Saints  is  to  the  world  to  make  plain  the 
way  of  life  and  salvation.  With  us  what  salvation  is  and  how  it  may 
be  obtained  is  no  longer  a  question.  That  question  has  been  solved. 
We  know  the  way.  God  our  Father,  because  of  his  love  for  us,  desires 
above  all  other  things  that  we  shall  have  salvation  in  his  kingcjpm, 
exaltation  where  he  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  dwell,  and  that  we  might 
have  salvation  he  has  made  the  provisions  of  the  gospel,  including  the 
atonement  wrought  out  by  his  Son  Jesus  Christ.  He  has  also  given 
us  the  organization  of  the  Church.  One  might  ask  why  all  this  religious 
activity  in  the  Church,  and  all  that  we  see  of  the  auxiliary  associations? 
It  is  necessary ;  the  salvation  of  man  depends  upon  it.  These  children 
of  Zion  are  to  have  their  faith  established,  and  they  are  to  become  so 
educated  in  the  work  that  they  in  turn  may  be  able  to  take  responsibility 
and  labor  for  the  accomplishment  of  God's  purposes.  Why  all  this 
effort  and  this  expenditure  of  means  in  the  pre'aching  of  this  gospel, 
as  it  is  done  by  the  Latter-day  Saints?  The  answer  is,  the 
salvation  of  man  depends  upon  it.  Why  the  building  of  temples  and 
the  work  that  is  accomplished  therein  at  such  tremendous  effort  and 
expense?  The  salvation  of  man  depends  upon  it;  and  the  salvation  of 
man  is  the  end  in  view  that  our  Father  in  heaven  has.  All  his  works  of 
which  we  have  any  account  are  but  a  means  to  that  end,  and  it  is 
because  he  loves  us.    The  sacrifice  made  by  the  Savior — for  he  gave 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


95 


himself  willingly  as  such — is  the  result  of  love  for  us,  because  we  are 
the  children  of  his  father,  because  we  are  his  brothers  and  his  sisters. 
What  a  glorious  truth,  what  a  glorious  principle,  that  we  are  born 
sons  and  daughters  of  God.  That  is  why  he  loves  us  with  a  perfect 
love,  because  we  are  his  sons  and  daughters.  We  ought  to  love  him  with 
all  our  hearts,  with  all  our  minds,  and  with  all  our  souls,  and  serve 
h'im  and  keep  his  commandments,  seeking  to  know  his  will  concerning 
us  and  doing  it  at  all  hazards. 

TESTIMONY 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  know  that  this  is  the  work,  of  the  Lord.  I 
rejoice  in  the  light  that  has  come  to  us  through  the  everlasting  gospel. 
I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God.  I  am  not  afraid  to 
bear  this  testimony.  I  never  have  been.  It  is  my  responsibility,  and 
it  gives  me  the  greatest  of  pleasure  to  have  the  opportunity  to  testify 
of  these  great  facts.  I  know  just  as  well  that  Brigham  Young,  who 
succeeded  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  presiding  over  this  Church,  was 
inspired  of  God,  that  he  held  the  place  the  Lord  prepared  for  him,  and 
that  his  work  was  acceptable  unto  the  Lord.  And  so  I  know  of  each 
of  the  succeeding  presidents  of  this  Church.  They  were  the  mouth- 
pieces of  God  unto  this  people,  inspired  of  the  Lord  for  their  work,  and 
the  work  has  grown  and  prospered ;  and  today  he  who  stands  at  the 
head  is  an  inspired  man  of  God.  We  know  him  because  he  is  mortal, 
and  we  see  that  which  is  mortal  of  him  perhaps  more  apparent  than 
that  which  is  divine,  but  we  who  have  association  with  him  so  closely 
bear  witness  to  you  as  Latter-day  Saints  and  to  all  the  world,  that 
Heber  J.  Grant  has  uppermost  in  his  heart  the  desire  to  know  what  the 
will  of  our  Father  is  concerning  this  great  latter-day  work  and  this 
people,  and  to  do  the  thing  that  our  Father  would  have  him  to  do. 
He  is  inspired,  has  been  and  ever  will  be,  and  under  his  administration 
this  work  will  go  on  and  prosper.  I  know  that  this,work  will  triumph, 
that  it  is  our  Father's  work,  that  he  is  at  the  helm.  Men  cannot  ac- 
complish this.  There  is  nothing  that  we  can  do  without  his  help,  but 
with  his  help,  his  purposes  will  be  accomnlished,  and  his  name  will  be 
glorified  in  the  earth.  1  bear  this  testimony  to  you,  brethren  and  sisters 
and  friends,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus'  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

WE  KNOW  NO  PARTY 

In  time  of  war  we  know  no  party;  all  come  to  the  defense  of  the 
country.  In  this  hour,  when  Constitution  and  laws  are  being  ridiculed, 
there  ought  to  be  no  Democrats  and  no  Republicans,  no  Prohibition- 
ists and  no  Socialists,  but  only  the  one  great  party — the  party  of  those 
who  stand  for  law  and'  order,  for  the  Constitution  of  our  country  and 
the  liberties  for  which  we  have  paid  so  great  a  price. 

*  Surely  this,  the  greatest  country  in  the  world,  is  not  bringing  up 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


a  generation  of  young  folks  who  carelessly,  recklessly,  and  thought- 
lessly break  the  laws  and  trample  the  Constitution  under  foot,  shouting 
in  drunken  laughter  that  this  sacred  document  is  "only  a  scrap  of  paper." 

Four  things  I  desire  to  mention  in  the  few  moments'  that  I  stand 
before  you :  First,  the  coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon ;  secondly, 
a  brief  reference  to  the  teachings  of  this  book ;  thirdly,  the  greatest 
problem  that  confronts  the  people  of  the  United  States  at  this  moment — 
lawlessness  and  disrespect  for  law ;  and  fourthly,  in  a  few  words,  I  desire 
to  make  an  appeal  to  you,  here  in  the  tops  of  these  everlasting  hills,  to 
come  to  the  defense  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States. 

I.    THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON 

• 

My  lifetime  has  been  devoted  to  the  study  and  the  teaching  of 
mathematics  and  engineering.  I  think  I  am  not  regarded  as  one  given 
-  to  hysteria.  I  have  asked  many  scientific  men  to  offer  a  solution  for 
Joseph  Smith  and  the  work  that  he  accomplished.  I  have  not  found 
anyone  able  to  give  any  other  explanation  than  that  which  we  give ;  that 
is,  that  Joseph  was  directed  in  his  work  by  divine  Providence.  One  man 
might  be  deceived;  but  can  you  deceive  three  or  four  together? 

THE  THREE  WITNESSES 

"Be  it  known  unto  all  nations  *  *  *  and  people,  unto  whom  this  work 
shall  come :  That  we,  through  the  grace  of  God  the  Father,  and  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  have  seen  .the  plates  which  contain  this  record.  *  *  *  We  know  that 
these  plates  have  been  translated  by  the  gift  and  power  of  God,  for  his  voice  hath 
declared  it  unto  us.  *  *  *  And  we  also  testify  that  we  have  seen  the  engrav- 
ings which  are  upon  the  plates.  *  *  *  And  we  declare  with  words  of  sober- 
ness, that  an  angel  of  God  came  down  from  heaven,  and  he  brought  and  laid 
before  our  eyes,  that  wc  beheld  and  saw  the  plates,  and  the  engravings  thereon; 
*  *  *  And  it  is  marvelous  in  our  eyes.  Nevertheless,  the  voice  of  the  Lord 
commanded  us  that  we  should  bear  record  of  it;  wherefore,  to  lie  obedient  unto 
the  commandments  of  God,  we  bear  testimony  of  these  things." 

THEY  WERE  NOT  DECEIVED 

Let  us  consider  that  testimony.  Is  it  not  remarkable,  odd,  strange 
— something  new  in  the  world  ?  One  man  might  be  mistaken ;  but  can 
three  or  four  ?    Here  are  the  Prophet  and  three  witnesses.    They  say :    >  - 

"And  we  declare  with  words  of  soberness" — three  sane  men,  mark 
you — "that  an  angel  of  God  came  down  from  heaven,  and  he  brought 
and  laid  before  our  eyes,  that  we  beheld  and  saw  the  plates,  and  the 
engravings  thereon ;  and  it  is  marvelous  in  our  eyes" — marvelous  to  me, 
marvelous  to  you,  marvelous  to  all  the  world  for  an  angel  in  these  days 
to  come  down  from  heaven. 

"Nevertheless,  the  voice  of  the  Lord  commanded  us  that  we  should  bear 
record  of  it;  wherefore,  to  be  obedient  unto  the  commandments  of  God,  we 
bear  testimony  of  these  things." 

In  this  skeptical  age  when  the  world  doubts  nearly  everything, 
men  might  not  be  satisfied  with  the  testimony  of  the  Prophet  himself 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


97 


and  these  three  witnesses;  so  there  are  eight  more,  twelve  in  all,  who 
bear  also  the  same  testimony : 

EIGHT  MORE  WITNESSES 

"Be  it  known  unto  all  nations,  kindreds,  tongues,  and  people,  unto  whom 
this  work  shall  come  :  That  Joseph  Smith,  Jun.,  the  translator  of  this  work, 
has  shown  unto  us  the  plates    *    *    *    which  have  the  appearance  of  gold.". 

Does  anyone  suppose  that  these  witnesses  were  deceived  in  that 
respect?  They  say  the  plates  had  the  appearance  of  gold.  People  may 
object:  "All  that  glitters  is  not  gold;  the  witnesses  may  have  been  in 
error."  But  their  testimony  is :  "They  have  the  appearance  of  gold ; 
and  as  many  of  the  leaves  as  the  said  Smith  has  translated  we  did 
handle  with  onr  hands."  Can  eight  men  be  so  deceived?  Can  they 
come  along,  one  after  another,  and  handle  with  their  hands  plates 
which  have  the  appearance  of  gold  and  be  deceived  as  to  their  reality? 

"we  have  seen  and  hefted" 

"As  many  of  the  leaves  as  the  said  Smith  has  translated  we  did  handle  with 
our  hands;  and  we  also  saw  the  engravings  thereon,  all  of  which  has  the  appear- 
ance of  ancient  work,  and  of  curious  workmanship.  And  this  we  bear  record  with 
words  of  soberness,  that  the  said  Smith  has  shown  unto  us,  for  we  have  seen  and 
hefted,  and  know  of  a  surety  that  the  said  Smith  has  *  *  *  the  plates  of 
which  we  have  spoken.  And  we  give  our  names  unto  the  world,  to  witness  unto 
the  world  that  which  we  have  seen.    And  we  lie  not.    God  bearing  witness  of  it." 

I  want  someone  who  thinks  these  testimonies  are  not  true, 
to  account  for  them. 

TESTIMONY  OF  THE  SPIRIT  - 

Those  who  were  in  the  Assembly  Hall  this  morning  listened  to 
the  reading  of  the  sixth  chapter  of  Jacob  in  a  silence  as  profound 
as  I  have  ever  observed  in  an  audience.  When  you  go  to  your 
homes,  open  that  book.  If  you  can  read  the  sixth  chapter  of 
Jacob  as  it  was  read  this  morning,  and  can  be  impressed  as  was 
this  audience,  I  believe  that  a  light  of  heaven  will  shine  into  your 
souls,  and  bring  to  you  the  conviction  which  we  call  a  testimony, 
that  this  is  scripture. 

II.    TEACHINGS  OF  THE  BOOK 

A  PERVERSE  GENERATION 

From  Helaman,  13th  chapter — that  odd  number  13 — I  shall 
read  from  the  38th  verse,  a  few  words  spoken  by  Samuel  the  Lamanit^ 
prophet,  as  he  stood  upon  the  walls  of  the  city  of  Zarahemla : 

"O  ye  wicked  and  ye  perverse  generations  *  *  *  how  long- 
will  ye  choose  darkness  rather  than  light?"  Does  not  that  sound  like 
scripture? — like  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ?  It  seems  to  me  that,  gener- 
ation after  generation,  as  Samuel  explains,  the  human  family  "will 
choose  darkness  rather  than  light." 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


CYCLES  OF  HISTORY 

Nations  go  around  in  a  cycle.  Out  of  poverty  comes  religion ;  out  of 
religion  come  character,  honor,  industry  and  dependability;  the  result 
is  faith.  Then  come  success,  prosperity,  riches — all  the  bright  lights; 
but  with  these,  temptation  and  that  darkness  spoken  of  by  this 
prophet  arise.  Sin,  iniquity,  wickedness,  follow  this  darkness, 
and  thus  again,  the  causes  of  poverty  return.  Within  a  few  genera- 
tions, we  begin  with  poverty,  rise  into  riches  and  success,  then 
go  back  to  poverty.  Speaking  to  the  people  in  Zarahemla,  Samuel 
says :  "In  the  days  of  your  poverty  you  shall  cry  unto  the  Lord, 
saying,  O  Lord,  canst  thou  not  turn  away  thine  anger  from  us?" 
Then  he  continues : 

/ 

HOW  TO  BUILD  MEN 

"But  behold,  your  days  of  probation  are  past;  ye  have  procrastinated  the  day 
of  your  salvation  *  *  *  ye  'have  sought  all  the  days  of  your  lives  for  that 
which  ye  could  not  obtain;  and  ye  have  sought  for  happiness  in  doing  iniquity." 

And  does  not  the  world,  at  this  minute,  seem  to  be  seeking 
for  happiness  in  doing  iniquity?  It  is  character,  it  is  honesty,  it 
is  integrity,  sincerity,  dependability,  that  will  bring  stable  suc- 
cess. This  Church  is  struggling  to  bring  up  a  generation  of  people 
having  these  qualities.  The  Relief  Society  conference,  just  adjourned, 
was  struggling  to  learn  what  to  do  before  and  after  children  are  born, 
to  make  them  young  men  and  young  women  with  the  qualities  of  Abra- 
ham Lincoln,  upon  whose  life  and  character  no  limelight  has  yet  been 
turned  that  is  strong  enough  to  find  a  flaw. 

A  CALL  FROM  LINCOLN 

In  a  proclamation,  March  30,  1863,  Lincoln  said : 

"We  have  been  the  recipients  of  the  choicest  bounties  of  heaven ;  we  have 
bedn  preserved  these  many  yfears  in  peace  and  prosperity;  we  have  grown  in 
numbers,  wealth,  and  power  as  no  other  nation  has  ever  grown.  But  we  have 
forgotten  God.  We  have  forgotten  the  gracious  hand  which  preserved  us  in 
peace  and  multiplied  and  enriched  and  strengthened  us,  and  we  have  vainly 
imagined,  in  the  deceitfulness  of  our  own  hearts,  that  all  these  blessings  were 
produced  by  some  superior  wisdom  and  virtue  of  our  own.  Intoxicated  with 
unbroken  success,  we  have  become  too  self-sufficient  to  feel  the  necessity  of 
redeeming  and  preserving  gra*e,  too  proud  to  pray  to  the  God  that  made  us. 
It  behooves  us,  then,  to  humble  ourselves  before  the  offended  power,  and  to 
confess  our  national  sins,  and  to  pray  for  clemency  and  forgiveness." 

INIQUITY   BRINGS  RUIN 

Can  doing  iniquity  bring  happiness?  Iniquity  is  the  absence  of 
character,  honesty,  integrity,  virtue,  sincerity,  genuineness  and  depend- 
ability. It  is  the  want  of  rectitude  and  uprightness ;  it  is  injustice, 
unrighteousness,  and  wickedness.'  Some  of  its  fundamentals  are 
drunkenness,  immorality,  gambling,  crookedness.  When  I  speak 
against  these,  I  am  teaching  not  only  the  doctrine  of  my  dwn  Church, 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


99 


but  that  of  every  church,  of  every  philosopher.  Educators  agree  that 
these  vices  will  bring  ruin  not  only  to  individuals,  but  to  nations  and 
peoples. 

PROHIBITION  AND  PROSPERITY 

I  shall  here  refer  to  only  one  of  these  types  of  evil — the  use  of 
intoxicating  liquor.  The  United  States  is  enjoying  unprecedented 
prosperity.  The  savings  of  the  country  in  1926  were  five  times  those 
of  1914.  In  that  year  the  savings  amounted  to  but  $6.71  per  capita, 
while  in  1926  they  were  $33.00  per  capita,  an  increase  of  390  per  cent. 

Many  attribute  this  unprecedented  prosperity  to  prohibition.  The' 
late  Wayne  B.  Wheeler  has  said  that  since  the  war  we  have  had  hun- 
dreds of  thousands  fewer  arrests  and  jail  commitments  per  annum  for 
drunkenness ;  that  our  drink-caused  poverty  has  decreased  74  per  cent, 
and  that  we  have  reached  the  lowest  rate  of  pauperism  that  has  been 
known  in  the  United  States. 

John  G.  Cooper  of  the  Brotherhood  of  Locomotive  Engineers 
says  that  prohibition  is  making  a  capitalist  out  of  the  worker ;  that 
when  the  saloon  closed,  the  "Poor  Man's  Club"  vanished,  that  it  is  being 
replaced  by  comfortable  homes.  He  adds  that  labor  is  getting  greater 
satisfaction  out  of  an  automobile  and  a  decent  home  than  it  ever 
did  out  of  the  corner  saloon. 

No  less  an  authority  than  Herbert  Hoover  says  that  our  prosperity 
is  due  to  the  elimination  of  industrial  waste  and  to  the  advent  of  pro- 
hibition. When  prohibition  was  adopted  we  had  in  the  United  States 
507  distilleries,  which  produced  annually  288,000,000  gallons  of  dis- 
tilled spirits ;  130,000,000  of  these  were  made'  into  whiskey.  We  were 
maintaining  1,300  breweries,  which  made  annually  two  billion  gallons 
of  beer.  There  was  a  saloon  in  nearly  every  business  block  of  our 
larger  cities. 

HOW  STANDS  THE  LAW  ? 

Today,  anyone  who  buys,  drinks,  gives,  sells,  or  has  in  his  pos-  ' 
session  intoxicating  liquor  is  doing  so  contrary  to  the  provisions  of 
the  Constitution  and  contrary  to  both  federal  and  state  laws. 

III.    LAWLESSNESS  AND  DISRESPECT  FOR  LAW. 

The  National  Economic  League  which  is  composed  of  leading 
and  influential  men  from  all  the  States  of  our  Union,  has  concluded 
that  the  greatest  problem  confronting  our  country  today'  is  "lawless-  . 
ness  and  disrespect  for  law,"  due,  they  believe,  first  to  indifferent 
public  sentiment  on  prohibition,  and  secondly,  to  lax  enforcement  of 
the  law. 

Hoover  says  it  is  time  for  all  good  citizens  to  give  attention  to 
the  following  by-products  of  our  prosperity :  One,  weakening  of  moral 
fiber ;  two,  loosening  of  family  and  home  ties ;  three,  youthful  crimi- 
nality ;  four,  easy  breaking  of  the  law  by  adults. 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"god  give  us  men/" 

We  need  in  official  positions,  more  men  like  John  Wanamaker. 
To  the  end  of  his  days,  this  man,  perhaps  the  world's  greatest  mer- 
chant, regarded  as  one  of  his  most  valuable  possessions  a  notebook  in 
which  were  recorded  the  names  of  those  with  whom  he  had  taken  the 
temperance  pledge. 

When  Postmaster  General,  he  passed  through  the  gay  life  of  the 
Nation's  capital  without  partaking  of  wine  and  without  serving  it 
upon  his  table.  This  unusual  conduct  brought  censure  and  ridicule ; 
but  this  broad-minded  citizen  passed  without  flinching  through  this 
fire  of  criticism. 

Not  infrequently  young  men  were  taken  into  his  presence,  while 
millionaires  impatient  for  an  audience  with  him  paced  his  waiting 
rooms.  When  wealthy  men  expressed  surprise  at  his  neglect  of  them, 
he  explained  that  those  who  came  on  spiritual  or  religious  matters 
had  come  on  the  King's  business,  and  that  he  always  attended  to  the 
King's  business  first. 

THE  DAY  OF  EFFICIENCY 

Not  many  years  ago  a  lawyer  would  hardly  think  of  standing 
before  a  jury  without  a  few  jolts  of  liquor  behind  his  belt.  It  is  no! 
long  since  it  was  the  rule  to  close  a  business  deal  with  a  drink.  But 
that  day  has  passed.  In  this  age  of  efficiency,  no  man  can  trust  himself 
to  do  business  if  his  mental  machinery  is  impeded  by  liquor.  Competi- 
tion is  so  keen  that,  other  things  being  equal,  he  who  drinks  will  fail. 

In  all  seriousness  I  ask  if  the  United  States,  or  the  people  thereof, 
have  partially  lost  the  old-fashioned  virtues  of  honesty,  sincerity,  so- 
briety, virtue;  and  dependability. 

A  PERILOUS  TIME 

Is  it  a  time  to  look  with  indifference  upon  leading  citizens  and 
young  people  whoiare  breaking  the  law? 

In  Salt  Lake  City  recently  a  national  officer  in  one  of  the  social 
fraternities  of  the  country  said  that  all  good  citizens  ought  to  be  aroused 
to  the  seriousness  of  the  situation.  "Most  of  the  young  men  who  are  in 
college  today,"  he  declared,  "are  drinking  liquor."  If  so,  what  may  we 
expect  in  years  not  far  ahead?  '  This  subtle  menace  threatens  the  very 
foundations  of  our  constitutional  freedom. 

IV.    APPEAL  TO  .CITIZENS 

I  appeal  to  you  as  good  citizens  to  go  to  the  primaries,  to  do  your 
duty  at  the  polls,  and  elect  to  office  men  who  are  concerned  with  the 
wishes  and  hopes  of  the  people,  not  heeding  the  bidding  of  men  whose 
principal  interest  is  money-making. 

THE  HOUR  HAS  COME 

The  hour  has  come  when  a  call  ought  to  be  issued  for  citizens 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


101 


to  stand  with  the  Boy  Scouts  and  pledge  allegiance  anew  to  the  Flag 
of  the  United  States  and  to  the  Republic  for  which  it  stands. 

A  resolution  of  the  judicial  section  of  the  American  Bar  Associa- 
tion explains  that  the  United  States  has  undertaken  to  suppress  the 
age-long  evils  of  the  liquor  traffic ;  that  when,  for  the  gratification 
of  appetite  or  for  gain,  lawyers,  bankers,  manufacturers,  merchants, 
and  social  leaders  disobey  and  scoff  at  the  prohibition  law,  they  are 
aiding  the  cause  of  anarchy,  promoting  mob  violence,  encouraging  rob- 
bery, and  increasing  homicide.  Is  it  not  time  for  us  to  call  out  for 
those  who  can  save  our  country  from  lawlessness  and  ruin ;  time  for  us 
to  exclaim  with  J.  G.  Holland,  "God  grve  us  men"  ?  Do  not  the  times 
demand  strong  minds,  great  hearts,  men  whom  the  lust  of  office  will 
not  kill,  whom  the  spoils  of  office  cannot  buy? 

THE  PRICE  OF  LIBERTY 

American  liberty  has  been  purchased  by  the  blood  and  lives  of 
our  ancestors.  My  own  brother's  son  gave  his  life  in  the  recent  World 
War  in  defense  of  that  liberty.  The  body  of  my  own  brother  lies 
buried  in  the  sacred  soil  of  France,  where  he  gave  his  life  in  the  same 
cause. 

Have  such  lives  been  given  in  vain?  Are  we  losing  respect  for 
the  Constitution,  that  document  which  Gladstone  has  called  "the  great- 
est state  document  of  all  the  Christian  ages"  ?  Must  voices  be  raised 
in  the  tops  of  these  everlasting  hills,  calling  to  the  people  of  the  United 
States  to  come  to  the  defense  of  the  Constitution?  Our  forefathers, and 
our  own  loved  ones  have  spent  their  lives  for  its  principles.  Are  we 
unwilling  to  cast  our  votes  for  those  who  will  honor  it? 

t 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  We  have  had  a  most  glorious  con- 
ference. I  have  enjoyed  every  moment  of  it  up  to  this  hour.  The 
teachings  of  this  conference  have  been  equal  to  any  that  I  have 
heretofore  listened  to. 

A  LARGE  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 

Last  evening  a  great  multitude  of  men  bearing  the  holy  Priesthood 
of  God  gathered  in  this  tabernacle.  It  was  a  time  of  interest  and  in- 
struction, and  perhaps  as  largely  attended  a  priesthood  meeting  as 
we  have  ever  had  in  the  Church.  Represented  there  were  all  the  orders 
and  degrees  of  the  priesthood  of  God.  The  duties  devolving  upon  the 
priesthood  are  quite  well  defined  in  the  revelations  of  God.  You  will 
pardon  me  if  I  refer  briefly  this  morning  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles  and  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  since  I  am  quite  closely 
identified  with  these  councils.  As  to  whether  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  and  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  enjoy  the  spirit  of  their  call- 
ing, you  Latter-day  Saints  are  perhaps  well  able  to  judge.  They  are 
.very  close  to  you  and  you  know  them. 


102   ■  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

THE  WORD  OF  THE  LORD  TO  THE  APOSTLES  AND  SEVENTY 

The  word  of  the  Lord  to  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet,  respecting 
these  councils,  will  perhaps  be  appropriate  at  this  time.  In  section 
107  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  the  Lord  says : 

"The  Twelve  are  a  Traveling  Presiding  High  Council,  to  officiate  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord,  under  the  direction  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  agreeable  to 
the  institution  of  heaven;  to  build  up  the  church,  and  regulate  all  the  affairs  of 
the  same  in  all  nations,  first  unto  the  Gentiles  and  secondly  unto  the  Jews. 

"The  Seventy  are  to  act  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  under  the  direction  of  the 
Twelve  or  the  traveling  high  council,  in  building  up  the  church  and  regulating  all 
the  affairs  of  the  same  in  all  nations,  first  unto  the  Gentiles  and  then  to  the  Jews ; 

"The  twelve  being  sent  out,  holding  the  keys,  to  open  the  door  by  the  procla- 
mation of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  first  unto  the  Gentiles  and  then  unto 
the  Jews." 

This  is  repeated  in  section  124,  where  the  following  language  oc- 
curs. Remember,  these  sections  disclose  sacred  revelations  of  God  to 
Joseph  Smith,  his  servant: 

The  "Twelve  hold  the  keys  to  open  up  the  authority  of  my  king- 
dom upon  the  four  corners  of  the  earth,  and  after  that  to  send  my 
word  to  every  creature." 

And  in  respect  to  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  the  "Quorum  is 
instituted  for  traveling  elders  to  bear  record  of  my  name  in  all  the 
world,  wherever  the  traveling  high  council,  mine  apostles,  shall  send 
them  to  prepare  a  way  before  my  face." 

THE  LABORS  OF  THESE  COUNCILS 

You  will  remember  that  it  is  said  that  the  Twelve  is  a  Traveling 
Presiding  High  Council.  Such  is  actually  the  case.  They  are  not  ex- 
pected to  preside  directly  in  the  Church,  but  are  also  required  to  travel, 
and  so  that  has  fallen  to  the  lot  of  these  two  councils  since  the  Church 
was  organized.  They  are  constantly  on  the  road,  so  to  speak,  going  or 
coming,  whether  at  home  or  abroad,  going  into  the  stakes  of  Zion, 
when  at  home,  to  regulate  the  affairs  of  the  Church  in  the  stakes,  under 
the  direction  of  the  First  Presidency ;  to  visit  by  rotation,  some  ninety- 
nine  stakes  of  Zion.  And  you  will  perceive  that  it  requires  some  time 
to  get  around  and  visit  these  stakes.  At  least  ten,  eleven  oir  twelve 
stake  conferences  are  held  weekly,  and  at  most  of  the  conferences  mem- 
bers of  the  Twelve  and  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  are  represented. 
What  are  they  there  for?  To  preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  to 
organize  and  reorganize  wards  and  stakes  of  Zion,  and  to  set  apart 
to  the  callings  of  the  priesthood  presidents  of  stakes,  high  councilors, 
etc.  And,  having  accomplished  this  work  at  any  one  or  all  of  these 
conferences,  the  apostles  and  the  members  of  the  first  council  of  seventy 
return  to  report  their  work  to  the  first  presidency  of  the  Church.  And 
I  may  say  that  these  brethren  have  very  great  pleasure  and  delight  in 
the  labor  that  is  placed  upon  them. 

What  about  the  nations  ?  Well,  as  the  Twelve  and  the  First  Council 
are  required  to  have  a  very  considerable  interest  in  the  missions  of 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON  103 


the  world,  we  have  some  twenty-seven  missions,  it  is  the  particular 
duty  of  the  Twelve,  and  so  stated  by  the  revelation,  to  open  the  door 
for  the  proclamation  of  the  gospel  to  the  nations,  and  perhaps  also 
to  teach  the  gospel,  by  first  opening  the  door  and  then  sending  the 
word  of  the  Lord  to  the  nations.  It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  report 
here  this  morning  that  the  Twelve  have  accomplished,  in  my  judg- 
ment, a  very  great  work  in  respect  to  this  matter.  The  door  for  the 
proclamation  of  the  gospel  was  opened  up  to  America,  our  beloved 
country,  by  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet,  and  the  keys  to  turn  this  door 
were  also  committed  by  Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet,  to  members  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 

The  gospel  was  introduced  into  Great  Britain  in  1839  by  Elder 
Heber  C.  Kimball,  who  was  {hen  one  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 
He  was  accompanied  by  Orson  Hyde,  Willard  Richards,  and  Joseph 
Fielding.  They  accomplished  a  great  mission.  The  gospel  was  intro- 
duced into  France  in  1850  by  Elder  John  Taylor  of  the  Twelve ;  and  in 
Italy  in  1850,  by  Elder  Lorenzoi  Snow ;  in  Scandinavia  in  1850,  by 
Elder  Erastus  Snow;  in  Japan  in  1901  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant; 
in  South  America  in  1925,  by  Elder  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  who  was  accom- 
panied by  Elder  Rulon  S.  Wells  and  Rey  L.  Pratt. 

The  Pacific  Islands  mission  was  opened  in  - 1844  by  Elder  Noah 
Rogers  and  others.  Elder  Rogers  was  not  of  the  Twelve.  Elder  David 
O.  McKay  and  Elder  Hugh  J.  Cannon  visited  the  Pacific  Islands  mission 
in  1921.  It  was  a  complete  and  extended  visit.  They  also  went  to 
Ch;na,  and  while  Elder  McKay  was  there  in  that  distant  land,  he  felt 
impressed  to  bless  the  land  that  the  gospel  might  take  root  in  the  hearts 
of  that  people. 

■We  are  told  in  the  revelation  that  the  Twelve  will  not  only  take 
the  gospel  to  the  Gentiles,  but  also  to  the  Jews.  Perhaps  the  first 
step  taken  in  this  matter  was  the  appointment,  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  of  Orson  Hyde  of  the  Twelve,  who  was  despatched  to  dedicate 
and  consecrate  the  land  of  Palestine  for  the  gathering  of  Judah's  scat- 
tered remnant,  and  also  the  scattered  remnants  of  Israel.  You  will  under- 
stand, my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  since  that  time  there  has  been  a  pro- 
nounced movement  on  the  part  of  the  Jews  of  the  world  to  gather  to 
Palestine,  undoubtedly  influenced  by  the  sacred  prayer  that  was  put  upon 
the  land  of  Palestine  and  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  who  is  directing  in  all 
these  matters. 

TESTIMONY 

I  rejoice  in  the  integrity,  in  the  faithfulness,  in  the  devotion  of 
my  brethren  and  associates  of  the  Council  of  Twelve  and  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy.  I  know  these  brethren  intimately.  I  think  I  have 
been  able  to  looik  into  their  hearts,  and  to  know  how  they  feel.  I  know 
what  they  are  doing.  I  believe  that  their  labors  are  approved  of  the 
Lord,  and  that  his  blessing  is  attending  their  activities. 

We  members  of  these  two  councils  rejoice  greatly  in  the  spirit 
of  the  gospel  and  are  pleased  to  labor  under  the  directiota  of  the  First 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Presidency  of  the  Church.  We  love  one  another ;  we  uphold  one  an- 
other in  our  faith.  I  believe,  in  fact,  I  think  I  may  say  that  I  know 
that  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  and  the  First  Coluncil  of  Seventy  see 
eye  to  eye. 

Of  course,  there  are  other  councils  in  the  Church,  and  there  are 
a  great  many  important  callings.  I  might  be  pardoned  in  closing  my 
remarks  by  quoting  from  Paul  the  Apostle,  who  is  regarded  as  a  very 
eminent  authority  on  things  pertaining  to  the  work  of  God.    He  said : 

"The  Church  of  God  is  founded  upon  apostles  and  prophets,  Jesus 
Christ  himself  being  the  chief  cornerstone."  Now,  the  Apostle  might 
very  well  have  added — certainly  he  might  have  truthfully  added — that 
the  Church  of  God  is  founded,  o!r  built,  upon  the  foundation  of  the 
apostles  and  prophets,  of  high" priests,  of  seventies,  elders,  and  of  priests, 
teachers  and  deacons,  because  it  must  be  very  apparent  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  that,  after  all  is  said  and  done,  the  real  meaning  of  the 
pronouncement  of  the  apojstle  was  this :  that  the  Church  of  God  is 
built  upon  the  foundation  of  the  Holy  Priesthood  of  God  for  that 
represents  divine  authority  upon  the  earth.  And  it  is  by  divine  author- 
ity that  the  Church  of  God  has  been  established  and  will  be  built  up 
upon  the  earth. 

This  is  my  testimony.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  I  know  it 
as  fully  and  completely  as  I  know  that  I  live.  I  know  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  and  is  a  true  Prophet  of  God.  Pie  was  a  mighty  man  in 
Israel,  and  I  bear  this  testimony  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Awake,  my  Soul,"  by  Evan  Stephens. 
Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  J.  Wesley  Smith. 
The  meeting  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p".  m. 

FIRST  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

In  the  Assembly  Hall,  10  o'clock,  Sunday  Morning,  October  9, 
1927,  an  overflow  meeting  was  held. 

Elder  David  A.  Smith,  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  presided. 
,   The  music  was   rendered  by  the   Ensign  ward   choir,  Wallace 
Bennett,  conductor,  Alex  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang:  "Come,  O  thou  King  of  kings." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Axel  A.  Madsen,  bishop 
of  the  Ensign  ward. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem :  "Fierce  raged  the  tempest." 

ELDER  BRYANT  S.  HINCKLEY 

President  of  the  Liberty  Stake 

'My  brethren  and  sisters:  It  is  perhaps  known  to  many  of 
you  that  the  Liberty  stake  of  Zion  is  located  in  the  southeastern 
part  of  this  city.   This  stake  is  about  a  mile  and  a  half  wide  and 


ELDER  BRYANT  S.  HINCKLEY 


105 


three  miles  long,  so  that  it  occupies  very  little  territory.  Resid- 
ing within  the  limits  of.  this  stake  there  are  approximately  25,000 
people,  15,000  of  whom  belong  to  [the  Church.  It  is  an  easy  mat- 
ter to  walk  from  my  house  to  any  meeting  house  in  the  stake  in 
twenty  minutes  and  to  make  the  journey  over  paved  walks.  In 
some  sections  of  the  stake,  and  I  may  say  generally,  the  people 
are  pretty  well-to-do.  They  live  in  good  homes,  on  an  average 
better,  I  suppose,  than  the  homes  owned  by  the  Latter-day  Saints 
,  in  many  other  places.  Many  of  them  are  professional  men.  Many 
of  them  are  successful  business  men.  And  withal  one  must  say 
with  pride,  the  people  are  good  people.  We  know  that  it  requires 
the  same  faith  to  save  a  rich  man  that  it  does  a  poor  man,  and 
that  no  man  can  buy  salvation  with  anything  as  cheap  as  money. 
It  requires  the  same  humility  and  the  same  obedience  and  the 
same  diligence  to  save  a  rich  man  that  it  does  a  poor  man.  We 
have  fine  meeting  houses  in  our  stake,  good  choirs.  Every  oppor- 
tunity seems  (to  be  within  easy  reach  of  the  people,  but  I  am  sure 
our  problems  are  just  as  serious  and  just  as  difficult  as  the  prob- 
lems of  the  people  who  live  in  the  remoter  parts  of  the  Church. 
It  is  a  difficult  thing  to  maintain  in  the  Sacrament  meetings  the 
attendance  that  many  of  the  wards  on  the  outside  maintain.  I 
discover  that  it  is  a  very  difficult  thing  for  a  man  who  is  prosperous, 
who  is  successful,  who  has  gathered  about  him  the  things  of  the 
world,  to  exercise  the  same  faith,  the  same  humility,  that  he  did 
in  his  humbler  days,  but  nevertheless  it  is  necessary. 

I  came  from  the  country.  I  grew  up  on  the  soil.  I  came  to 
this  city  when  I  ;was  a  grown  man.  Of  course,  I  can  never  forget 
my  love  for  the  plain  people.  My  early  contact  with  the  people 
of  the  soil  has  left  forever  in  my  soul  an  appreciation  of  their 
worth  and  of  the  contribution  which  they  make  to  the  Church 
and  to  society.  I  love  the  people  of  the  city.  There  are  no  more 
faithful  people  in  the  world  than  some  of  the  Saints  who  live  in- 
this  city.  I  know  hired  girls  who  pay  more  tithing,  I  really  be- 
lieve, than  many  prosperous  farmers.  V 

I  have  enjoyed  this  conference  very  greatly.  I  think  the 
reference  made  by  the  President  of  the  Church,  to  .  the  support 
that  should  be  given  to  law  and  order,  and  the  pride  which  this 
people  should  have  in  the  great  government  of  which  they  form  a 
part,  was  very  timely  and  fundamental.  Whenever  I  am  depressed 
with  little  things,  my  heart  is  inspired  with  two  great  thoughts 
that  always  cheer  and  comfort  rne.  In  the  first  place,  I  am  de- 
voutly grateful  that  I  am  an  American.  It  is  a  proud  thing  to  be 
an  American.  I  firmly  believe  that  the  flag  that  waves  over  you 
and  over  me  is  the  best  flag  that  ever  waved  over  any  land  or 
any  people — made  so  by  the  heroism  of  the  men  who  founded 
this  Republic  and  who  have  maintained  it.  My  heart  was  touched 
with  the  beautiful  and  dignified  tribute  which  a  distinguished  visi- 
tor, General  Summerall,  paid  to  this  people  yesterday  morning.  I 


106  '  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

hope  we  deserve  it,  and  I  believe  that  we  do.  I  am  sure  that 
"Mormonism"  has  in  it  the  genius  of  the  best  civilization  the 
world  has  ever  seen.  All  good  Latter-day  Saints  are  good  citizens. 
Poor  citizenship  is  an  evidence  of  poor  affiliation  with  the  Church. 
It  cannot  be  otherwise.  I  am  grateful  for  the  government  that 
shelters  us,  for  the  opportunity  which  it  gives  to  its  citizens.  I  love 
this  land  of  ours.  The  Almighty  in  his  infinite  kindness  has  established 
our  feet  in  the  tops  of  the  eternal  hills  and  given  us  a  place  where  the 
sun  shines  more  days  in  the  year  than  in  any  other  place,  where  the 
skies  are  bluer  and  the  water  clearer.  We  ought  to  be  good  citizens,  and 
we  ought  to  stand  firmly  for  the  maintenance  of  the  principles  bred  in 
the  institutions  which  we  love  and  cherish. 

And  I  am  grateful,  my  brethren  arid  sisters,  that  I  am  a  Latter- 
day  Saint.  I  am  not  boasting,  of  course,  of  my  devotion,  but  rejoic- 
ing in  the  thought  that  I  belong  to  this  people.  We  belong  to  a 
great  Church.  Every  man  and  every  woman  who  belongs  to  this 
Church  is  to  be  congratulated  upon  his  opportunity,  his  opportuni- 
ties for  growth,  for  development,  for  the  establishment  of  his  char- 
acter. The  history  of  the  past  should  inspire  us,  and  the  promises 
of  the  future  should  sustain  us.  It  is  a  great  thing  to  belong  to 
this  Church. 

Stress  has  been  placed  upon  missionary  work  during  this  con- 
ference. In  no  sense  would  I  minimize  the  importance  of  that 
work.  I  know  that  the  ingenuity  of  men  never  devised  such  a 
marvelous  educational  agency  as  the  missionary  system  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  There  is  nothing  like 
it  in  the  world.  Boys  go  to  the  ends  of  the  earth  and  bring  back 
all  they  see,  and  enjoy  the  advantages  of  education  that  comes 
from  travel.  Now,  that  is  only  one  part  of  it.  There  is  something 
about  putting  a  young  man  on  his  own  responsibility  and  com- 
pelling him  to  make  the  Almighty  his  friend  that  has  a  marvelous 
influence  upon  him.  A  young  man  came  into  my  office  and  when 
I  looked  into  his  face,  I  said  to  him,  "Where  have  you  been?"  He 
said,  "I  have  been  to  New  Zealand.  I  have  traveled  around  the 
world."  Then  he  told  me  what  he  had  seen.  In  the  conversation 
he  said  to  me:  "What  is  the  greatest  thing  you  ever  saw?"  I 
had  the  inspiration,  I  believe,  to  say  to  him,  "The  finest  thing  I 
ever  saw  in  my  life  is  a  boy  in  whose  eye  the  fire  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  burns,  in  whose  face  is  reflected  the  presence  and  power  of 
the  spirit  of  Almighty  God."  Isn't  it  marvelous  that  mere  boys, 
modest,  trembling  boys,,  go  away  from  home  and  come  back  in 
two  or  three  years  transformed  into  strong  men?  Have  you  ever 
seen  anything  that  is  quite  comparable  to  that  experience  in  help- 
ing a  boy?  I  never  have.  It  is  wonderful. 

Now,  this  Church  has  just  three  great  things  to  do :  First, 
to  preach  the  gospel  to  jevery  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people, 
declaring  with  a  loud  voice  that  an  angel  has  flown  through  the 
midst  of  heaven  and  has  revealed  again,  to  earth,  the  gospel  of 


ELDER  BRYANT  S.  HINCKLEY 


107 


Jesus  Christ.  We  are  trying  to  do  that;  we  are  doing  it,  feebly, 
perhaps,  but  doing  pretty  well.  JSTow,  the  second  is,  to  develop 
the  individual  members  of  the  Church,  to  help  them  to  grow  into 
their  best.  And  the  third  is  to  make  a  icommunity  which  will  re- 
flect the  spirit  and  power  of  the  gospel.  Now,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  the  great  problem  that  always  addresses  itself  to  each 
of  us  is  to  preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  our  daily  contact. 
That  is  not  so  easy.  I  know  men  who'  have  gone  on  missions  and 
preached  with  power  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  but  who,  when 
home,  under  the  influence  of  prosperity  and  ease,  have  grown 
apathetic  and  indifferent  and  careless.  You  know  it  is  an  easy 
matter  to  face  belching  guns  when  the  delirium  of  war  is  on,  but 
many  a  man  who  is  brave  in  battle  falls  down  supinely  under  the 
monotony  and  routine  of  daily  life.  Our  mission  at  home  is  to 
"carry  on,"  so  that  when  men  come  from  far  and  see  what  we 
are  doing  and  get  in  touch  with  us,  they  will  discover  that  back 
of  our  conduct  there  is  something  sincere  and  genuine,  something 
that  carries  over.  That  is  the  acid  test.  God  expects  to  make 
of  us  a  great  people.  I  believe  that  we  will  become  rich  and  pros- 
perous, if  we  ^re  only  big  enough  to  stand  it.  If  we  only  have 
that  childlike  faith  that  will  enable  us  to  practice  the  plain  princi- 
ples of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  we  will  succeed.  We  wear  better 
clothes  than  our  fathers  wore ;  we  live  in  finer  houses,  eat  finer 
food,  but  that  is  not  fundamental.  Have  we  a  better  quality  of 
faith?  Do  we  manifest  that  faith  in  more  righteous  behavior?  That 
is  the  important  thing.  God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
you  men  and  women  who  come  from  afar  to  hear  the  word  of 
the  Lord,  in  whose  honest  souls  a  love  of  truth  burns.  You  and  all 
people  of  your  kind  are,  after  all,  the  salt  of  the  earth,  and  your 
names  will  endure  forever  on  the  records  of  his  Church.  GoH 
help  us  all,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  R.  MAYCOCK 

President  of  the  Kolob  Stake 

"It  takes  a  heap  of  livin'  in  a  house  to  make  it  home."  I  know 
that  my  good  teacher,  Brother  Hinckley,  did  not  mean  that  Liberty 
stake  has  better  homes ;  he  meant  that  Liberty  stake  has  better 
houses.  I  come  from  a  stake  so  much  larger  than  his  that  he  does 
not  really  know  that  he  has  any  troubles.  Our  stake  is  six  miles 
wide  and  forty-five  miles  long,  and  we  haven't  any  paved  roads, 
and  very  few  paved  sidewalks.  But  we  have  wonderful  people  and 
a  wonderful  lot  pf  homes,  homes  wherein  the  Spirit  of  God  dwells, 
where  people  are  trying  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God  and 
where  we  are  endeavoring  to  draw  near  unto  him.  I  appreciate 
Brother  Hinckley,  my  brothers  and  sisters.  I  have  loved  him  for 
a  long,  long  while.  There  came  into  my  life  some  of  his  teachings 
in  1897,  in  the  Brigham  Young  Academy,  that  have  stood  out  from 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


then  until  now.  I  am  glad  to  follow  him  and  the  good  things  that 
he  taught  us  in  that  class.  I  never  have  been,  in  another  class,  so 
filled  with  inspiration.  I  have  never  received  teaching  from  an- 
other teacher  that  stood  out  in  my  life  like  the  teachings  of  Bryant 
S.  Hinckley,  and  so  I  love  him  and  appreciate  him  and  pray  God's 
blessings  upon  him. 

I  appreciate  the  privilege  of  laboring  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  the  responsibilities  that  have  come  unto  me  have 
helped  me  to  appreciate  more  fully  the  blessings  that  have  come ; 
because  I  believe  that  as  we  labor  we  learn  to  love ;  because  I 
believe  that  as  we  associate  with  our  brethren  and  sisters  and 
see  their  integrity  and  devotion  and  determination  to  keep  the 
commandments  of  God,  we  more  fully  appreciate  the  gospel  that 
has  been  given  to  us.  We  can  see  its  fruits,  we  can  see  its  bless- 
ings, and  we  cherish  them  more  the  more  we  work. 

I  love  this  wonderful  country  of  ours,  and  I  am  glad  that  our 
brethren  have  talked  to  us  about  keeping  the  laws  of  the  land. 
I  desire  to  read  a  few  words  from  Abraham  Lincoln  on  this  subject : 

"Let  every  American,  every  lover  of  liberty,  every  well-wisher  of  his  posterity 
swear  by  the  blood  of  the  revolution  never  to  violate  in  the  least  particular  the 
laws  of  the_  country,  and  never  to  tolerate  their  violation  by  others.  Let  reverence 
for  the  laws  be  breathed  by  every  American  mother  to  the  lisping  babe  that  prattles 
on  her  lap;  let  it  be  taught  in  the  schools,  in  seminaries,  in  colleges;  let  it  be 
written  in  primers,  in  spelling  books,  and  in  almanacs ;  let  it  be  preached  from 
the  pulpit,  proclaimed  in  legislative  halls,  and  enforced  in  the  courts  of  justice. 
And,  in  short,  let  it  become  the  political  religion  of  the  nation;  and  let  the  old 
and  the  young,  the  rich  and  the  pcor,  the  grave  and  the  gay,  of,  all  sects  and 
tongues  and  colors  and  conditions,  sacrifice  unceasingly  upon  its  altars." 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  wish  we  could  get  that  into  our 
souls  and  appreciate  the  fact  that  we  should  not  only  live  the 
law  ourselves  but  that  we  should  sustain  it  by  assisting  others  to 
live  it.  We  have,  to  a  certain  extent,  a  responsibility  in  this  regard, 
because  we  are  American  citizens.  I  have  been  in  a  position  the 
last  few  years  to  know  something  about  the  enforcement  of  law, 
and  I  have  seen  some  of  the  results  that  have  come  from  people  stepping 
over  just  a  little.  First  we  break  some  of  the  lesser  laws,  disregard 
some  of  the  lesser  things,  and  then  our  conscience  is  seared  to 
the  extent  that  we  can  disregard  some  of  the  greater  ones.  And 
in  our  disregarding  those  things  we  are  setting  examples  to  those 
with  whom  we  associate.  I  wish  that  every  mother  in  this  great 
country  of  ours  could  say  to  her  boy  and  to  her  girl,  "I  want 
you  to  live  the  laws  of  the  land  as  your  father  lives  them."  But 
what  would  be  the  condition  if  -  our  mothers  did  that?  We  some- 
times are  prone  to  try  to  cover  up  our  actions,  to  try  to  break  the 
law  and  not  let  anyone  know  it.  But  there  is  always  someone  to 
watch.  There  is  that  boy  and  that  girl  who  are  always  seeing  and 
always  imitating  what  the  older  ones  do.  This  summer  we  raised 
a  little  garden  at  the  back  of  our  house,  and  not  so  long  ago  I 
took  the  hand  plow  and  went  out  and  was  pushing  that  plow  in 


ELDER  GEORGE  R.  MAY  COCK 


109 


the  garden.  As  I  stepped  in  the  loose  soil  after  I  had  plowed  it,  I 
looked  back  and  there  was  our  babe,  nearly  four  years  old,  fol- 
lowing-. I  said,  "What  are  you  doing?"  "Walking  in  your  steps." 
My  brethren  and  sisters,  there  came  tears  to  my  eyes.  I  said  to 
myself,  "Am  I  leading  aright?  Am  I  willing  that  my  child  should 
walk  in  my  steps  in  all  the  things  that  I  do?"  If  I  can  so  live  that 
I  am  willing  that  they  should,  if  I  can  so  live  that  my  children  can 
appreciate  the  gospel  and  appreciate  the  country  in  which  we  live, 
because  they  have  walked  in  my  steps,  then  I  shall  feel  that  my 
mission  has  been  well  filled. 

If  is  not  only  in  the  laws  of  our  land  but  in  the  laws  of  our 
Church  that  we  must  keep  the  commandments,  i  You  know  the 
prophet  said  that  there  has  been  a  law  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven 
before  the  foundation  of  the  world,  upon  which  every  blessing  is 
predicated,  and  if  we  expect  to  receive  the  blessing,  we  must  keep 
the  law  upon  which  it  is  predicated.  Too  many  of  us,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  are  trying  to  dead-head  our  way  into  heaven.  Too 
many  of  us  are  expecting  to  be  judged  in  that  great  judgment  day 
by  the  things  that  we  believe  rather  than  by  the  things  we  do.  The 
apostle  of  old  said,  "The  devils  also  believe,  and  tremble."  The 
Latter-day  Saints  believe  the  gospel.  I  have  a  friend  who  never 
did  anything  for  the  Church ;  in  fact,  he  scarcely  knew  that  he 
belonged  to  the  Church.  He  went  away  and  someone  attacked 
"Mormonism,""and  he  began  to  defend  it,  but  he  defended  it  not 
as  the  "Mormon"  elders  defend  it,  but  with  his  fists.  He  believed 
the  gospel,  and  when  the  time  came  that  he  had  to  defend  it,  he 
defended  it  the  best  he  could.  Will  we  be  judgd  by  the  things  we 
believe  ?  If  we  must  keep  the  commandments  to  receive  the  bless- 
ings, it  is  time  that  we  begin  to  work." 

There  are  three  great  commandments  revealed  that  will  give 
to  us,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  every  blessing,  I  believe,  that  we  could 
desire.  The  first  thing,  it  seems  to  me,  that  we  need — the  very 
first  thing  that  we  need  as  Latter-day  Saints,  is  the  Spirit  of  God 
to  attend  us  continually,  and  there  is  an  ordinance  given  that  if 
we  would  gather  together  on  the  Lord's  day  and  partake  of  his 
sacrament  and  covenant  to  always  remember  him,  we  will  always 
have  his  Spirit  to  be  with  us.  I  have  sat  in  congregations  of  the 
Saints  and  have  watched  them  partake  of  that  sacram,ent,  have 
seen  them  put  out  their  hands — in  fact,  I  believe  I  have  done  it 
myself  on  many  occasions — with  my  mind  just  as  far  away  from 
that  ordinance  as  it  was  possible  for  it  to  be,  not  remembering  him 
always,  not  remembering  him  even  while  I  was  partaking  of  the 
sacrament.  I  believe  that  we  should  keep  that  commandment.  I 
believe  that  we  should  partake  of  the  sacrament  regularly  and  'always 
remember  him,  in  order  that  we  may  have  his  spirits  to  be  with  us. 

And  then,  after  we  have  his  spirit  to  be  with  us,  we  want  next 
wisdom  and  knowledge  and  understanding;  we  want  health  and 
strength.  And  if  we  will  read  the  eighty-ninth  section  of  the  Doctrine 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  Covenants,  we  can  read  there  the  comimandment  by  which  we 
can  receive  these  blessings — wisdom,  knowledge,  and  understand- 
ing, and  health  and  strength,  and  not  only  that,  but  we  have  been 
given  the  promise  that  the  destroying  angel  shall  pass  by  us,  even 
as  in  the  days  of  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  destroy  us. 

And  after  we  have  received  those  blessings,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  if  we  turn  to  the  fifty-ninth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  we  can  read  there  the  commandments  by  which  all 
things  else,  it  seems  to  me,  that  we  may  need  will  come  unto  us ; 
because  we  are  told  in  that  section  (and  with  your  permission  I 
will  read  a  few  verses)  : 

"And  that  thou  mayest  more  fully  keep  thyself  unspotted  from  the  world, 
thou  shalt  go  to  the  house  of  prayer  and  offer  up'  thy  sacraments  upon  my  holy 
day; 

"For  verily  this  is  a  day  appointed  unto  you  to  rest  from  your  labors,  and 
to  pay  thy  devotions  unto  the  Most  High ; 

"Nevertheless,  thy  vows  shall  be  offered  up  in  righteousness  on  all  days 
and  at  all  times; 

"But  remember  that  on  this,  the  Lord's  day,  thou  shalt  offer  thine  oblations 
and  thy  sacraments  unto  the  Most  High,  confessing  thy  sins  unto  thy  brethren,  and 
before  the  Lord. 

"On  this  day  thou  shalt  do  none  other  thing,  only  let  thy  food  be  prepared 
with  singleness  of  heart  that  thy  fasting  may  he  perfect],  or,  in  other  words, 
that  thy  joy  may  be  full. 

"Verily,  this  is  fasting  and  prayer,  or,  in  other  words,  rejoicing  and  prayer. 

"And  inasmuch  as  ye  do  these  things,  with  thanksgiving,  with  cheerful  hearts 
and  countenances,  not  with  much  laughter,  for  this  is  sin,  but  with  a  glad 
heart  and  a  cheerful  countenance — 

"Verily  I  say,  that  inasmuch  as  ye  do  this,  the  fulness  of  the  earth  is  yours, 
the  beasts  of  the  field  and  the  fowls  of  the  air,  and  that  which  climbeth  upon 
the  tree  and  walketh  upon  the  earth ; 

"Yea,  and  the  herb, .and  the  good  things  which  come  of  the  earth,  whether  for 
food  or  for  raiment,  or  for  houses,  or  for  barnsj,  or  for  orchards,  or  for  gardens, 
'or  for  vineyards." 

All  are  ours,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  by  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  God. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  we  "are  laboring  in  the  cause 
of  Christ,  that  we  are  in  his  Church,  which  is  indeed  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation.  Every  fibre  of  my  soul  declares  unto  me 
that  these  things  are  true.  My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  pray  that 
we  may  live  to  show  to  the  world  that,  they  are  true,  for  our  actions 
will  show  more  than  our  words.  May  the  blessings  of  God 
attend  us  in  this  conference  and  throughout  our  lives,  I  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  J.  DAYNES 

President  of  \the  Grant  Stake 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  that  I  shall  enjoy 
the  spirit  of  this  conference,  that  the  Lord  will  direct  me  in  what  I 


ELDER  JOSEPH  J.  DAYNES- 


111 


shall  say,  that  I  shall  enjoy  your  sympathy  and  good  will,  and  that  my 
efforts  shall  be  the  means  of  stimulating  myself  to  better  action  and  per- 
haps of  helping  those  of  you  who  are  here. 

I  appreciate  the  responsibility  that  comes  to  an  elder  in  this 
Church  when  called  upon  to  speak  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  ap- 
preciate that  we  should  undertake  to  believe  in  the  principles  that  we 
advocate.  I  have  observed  in  this  conference,  since  its  opening  session 
Friday  morning,  that  the  theme  generally  has  been  that  of  law  and 
its  enforcement,  all  of  which  I  feel  to' endorse  and  feel  to  appreciate 
its  importance.  There  are  many  laws  that  are  given  to  the  people  of 
the  city  and  nation  which  are  given  for  a  benefit  and  a  blessing ;  first, 
to  teach  us  to  respect  the  rights  of  others,'  and  secondly  that  in  respect- 
ing the  rights  of  others  we  may  grow  stronger  ourselves.  There  are 
other  principles  that  have  been  given  not  in  the  way  of  legislation  by 
the  authorities  of  the  land,  but  laws  and  commandments  given  unto  us 
by  our  heavenly  Father. 

One  of  these  principles,  known  as  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  has  been 
touched  upon  more  or  less  during  the  conference.  Being  a  profound 
advocate  of  this  doctrine  I  have  been  impressed  with  its  importance, 
and  with  your  kind  permission  would  like  to  consider  some  of  its  many 
phases.  It  really  surprises  us  very  much  to  observe  that  when  we  are 
subjected  to  an  examination,  that  as  to>  our  own  strength,  in  the  living 
and  observance  of  this  law  of  the  Church,  that  we  have  many  short- 
comings, and  fail  to  measure  up  to  the  ideals  and  standards  of  a  typical 
Latter-day  Saint. 

One  great  authority  has  said  that  in  the  United  States,  during  the 
year  1925,  there  were  consumed  sixty-nine  billion  ready-made  cigarettes, 
which  would  mean  that  during  that  year  every  man,  woman  and  child 
consumed  690  ready-made  cigarettes — not  counting  the  number  of 
hand-made  cigarettes,  cigars,  and  tobacco.  It  would  be  unfair  to  say 
that  this  startling  condition  exists  only  in  other  states,  for  Utah,  the 
land  in  which  we  live,  has  undoubtedly  contributed  its  share.  '  From 
the  records  that  have  been  published  it  may  be  well  for  us  to  see  as 
to  what  extent  Utah  has  been  a  contributing  factor  in  the  consumption 
of  some  of  these  articles.  During  the  year  1924  the  residents  of  the 
State  of  Utah,  including  of  course  all  classes,  and  not  Latter-day  Saints 
alone,  actually  threw  away: 

For  coffee   $2,000,000 

For  cigarettes    1,500,000 

For  tea   1,500,000 

For  tobacco   2,000,000 

.    Total  $7,000,000 

I  have  not  given  an  estimate  as  to  the  amount  of  money  involved 
in  the  purchase  of  liquor,  because  that  perhaps  would  be  beyond 
computation. 

I  have  taken  this  sum  of  $7,000,000 ;  and  have  done  a  little  figuring 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  see  what  we  could  accomplish  if  this  sum  of  money  were  applied  in 
legitimate  channels  for  the  development  and  growth  and  upbuilding 
of  our  communities,  and  this  is  what  I  observe.  We  could  buy  any  one  of 
the  following  things :  ten  million  bushels  of  potatoes,  seventy  million 
loaves  of  bread,  seventy  million  quarts  of  milk,  2,500,000  pairs  of 
shoes,  100  million  streetcar  fares — in  fact,  this  money,  if  applied, 
would  ^ide  the  entire  population  of  Salt  Lake  City,  estimated  at  140,000 
people,  to  work  and  return  every  day  for  one  year.  It  would  buy 
14,000  Ford  automobiles.  You  could  take  a  series  of  one-dollar  bills, 
standing  them  up  end  to,  end,  and  construct  a  fence  reaching  from  Salt 
Lake  City  to  Los  Angeles.  It  would  build  230  meeting  houses,  at  an 
average  cost  of  $30,000.  Assuming  that  it  would  cost  $5C0  per  year 
to  maintain  and  sustain  each  of  the  students  in  attendance  at  the  fol- 
lowing schools  for  their  living  for  the  entire  year,  it  would  provide 
the  education  and  living  for  the  total  enrollment  of  the  student  member- 
ship of  the  University  of  Utah,  the  Agricultural  College  at  Logan,  the 
L.  D.  S.  College  here  in  this  city,  the  East  High  School,  Salt  Lake  City, 
the  West  High  School,  Salt  Lake  City;  the  Brigham  Young  University 
at  Provo,  the  Granite  High  School,  and  perhaps  others.  A  total  of 
14,000  students  could  be  taught  and  educated  for  a  whole  year  for  this 
money.  And  further,  let  me  state  that  if  this  money  were  used  legiti- 
mately and  honorably,  it  would  pay  the  entire  taxes  for  the  State  of 
Utah  for  the  whole  yeaf.  It  would  take  2,000  people  on  a  tour  around 
the  world  extending  over  a  period  of  three  or  four  months,  giving  to 
each  one  the  sum  of  $3,500  for  expenses. 

It  may  be  interesting  for  you  to  know  that  in  the  United  States 
there  was  expended  in  the  year  1923  for  tobacco  alone,  the  amazing 
sum  of  900  million  dollars,  for  liquor  two  billion,  while  for  furniture 
which  contributes  to  the  happiness  and  joy  of  every  home,  there  was 
expended  but  375  million.  As  we  think  of  this  inconceivable  amount 
of  money  that  is  expended  for  these  non-essentials,  is  it  not  time  for 
us  to  consider  as  to  what  extent  we  may  be  contributing  to  these 
abuses?  As  a  means  of  giving  us  a  better  understanding  as  to;  how 
to  enjoy  wisdom  in  all  of  our  daily  undertakings,  I  feel  that  a  proper 
understanding  of  this  precious  revelation  is  most  vital  to  every  Latter- 
day  Saint  family. 

In  view  of  these  alarming  conditions  might  it  not  be  well  to  ask 
ourselves  the  question,  as  to  what  we  are  doing  to  rectify  the  same? 
You  will  recall  in  the  revelation  given  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  on  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  the  declaration  is  made  that  these 
stimulants  are  not  good  for  the  human  body.  Are  we  exercising  the 
proper  restraint  ourselves,  and  are  efforts  likewise  applied  in  teaching 
our  children,  that  the  use  of  these  beverages  and  narcotics  can  only 
work  to  their  spiritual  and  physical  detriment  ? 

I  feel  to  compliment  and  congratulate  those  who  regard  this  principle 
as  vital,  and  who  undertake  to  observe  this  law.  For  those  who  are 
weak  and  apparently  not  able  in  and  of  their  own  strength  to  over- 
come, I  earnestly  pray  that  the  Lord  in  his  infinite  mercy  shall  give 


ELDER  JOSEPH  J.  DAYNES 


113 


them  that  added  strength  that  they  may  be  successful  in  their  righteous 
desires. 

I  earnestly  pray  that  the  means,  the  talent  and  the  ability  that  God 
has  given  us,  will  be  at  all  times  used  in  honorable  and  legitimate  pur- 
suits.   God  help  each  of  us  to  know  our  duty,  and  give  us  the  strength 

always  to  properly  apply  it,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

A  solo,  "How  beautiful  upon  the  mountains"  was  sung  by  Arvilla 
Allen. 

ELDER  HENRY  A,  GARDNER 

President  of  the  Palmyra  Stake 

Realizing  my  limited  knowledge  and  ability,  I  feel  very 
keenly,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  the  responsibility  that  rests  upon 
me  at  this  moment,  and  I  humbly  desire  that  the  prayer  that  was 
offered  by  our  brother  at  the  beginning  may  be  made  manifest 
in  my  behalf,  that  I  may  be  able  to  say  something  to  encourage 
you  along  the  pathway  of  life.  Like  Paul  of  old,  I  am  not  ashamed 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  I  realize  and  know  that  it  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation.  I  have  been  taught  the  principles 
of  "Mormonism"  from  my  youth  up  and  have  been  taught  to 
honor  and  sustain  those  who  are  in  authority  over  me,  and  as 
I  com;e  to  these  conferences  and  gaze  into  the  faces  of  the  brethren 
who  preside  over  this  Church,  I  go  home  with  a  renewed  deter- 
mination and  desire  to  press  on  in  this  great  latter-day  work.  It 
seems  to  me  that  there  never  was  a  time  in  the  history  of  our 
Church  when  the  Lord  has  fortified  us  with  men  to  lead  and 
guide  us  as  he  has  at  the  present  time.  Coming  yesterday  morn- 
ing, as  I  read  the  Tribune  and  saw  on  the  front  page  a  picture 
of  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church  as  they  were  taken  just 
before'  entering  the  tabernacle,  I  thought,  what  a  wonderful 
team  of  men — well  fitted  and  qualified  for  the  great  responsibility 
of  leaders  of  this  people !  With  the  other  brethren,  I  thank  God 
that  I  am  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  for  I  realize  that  this  is  God's  work.  Though  we  may  fall 
by  the  wayside,  this  work  will  go  on,  for  it  is  God's.  "Mormon- 
ism," so  called,  is  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  To  me  it 
is  the  grandest,  noblest,  broadest  religion  in  all  the  world,  for 
it  not  only  accepts  the  truth  that  we  have,  but  accepts  the  truth, 
the  virtues  and  the  praiseworthy  things  that  we  find  in  men,  in 
churches,  and  in  associations  wherever  they  may  be  found.  We  are 
told  to  seek  after  the  things  that  are  elevating,  that  are  uplifting 
and  praiseworthy. 

I  come  from  the  Palmyra  stake,  situated  in  the  southern  part 
of  Utah  county.  We  are  there  a  common  people.  I  thank  God 
that  I  am  ^mong  the  common  people,  for  I  realize  that  if  we  are 
humble  and  willing  to  let  the  Spirit  of  God  work  upon  us  and 


114  '   GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

actuate  our  lives,  we  shall  be  fitted  and  prepared  to  enjoy  our  offices 
and  callings  as  members  of  the  Church. 

Much  has  been  said  during  this  conference  relative  to  law  and 
order.  It  seems  to  me  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  been  taught 
from  their  youth  that  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  and 
that  great  document  of  human  (rights,  the  Declaration  of  Independ- 
ence, were  written  by  men  inspired  of  our  heavenly  father.  Mr. 
Babson  said  recently,  "The  United  States  of  America  at  the 
present  time  'is  blessed  with  everything  except  religion."  I  feel 
that  not  only  as  a  nation,  but  sometimes  as  a  people,  the  thing 
we  need  most  is  a  return  to  simple  faith  in  God  our  Father.  We 
need  in  our  home-lives  more  of  the  Spirit  of  God  to  lead  and 
guide  us.  We  peed  to  have  more  family  prayer.  We  need  to  pray 
in  the  spirit  and  meaning  of  the  word. 

I  remember  a  little  poem  I  learned  a  number  of  years  ago.  It 
went  something  like  this: 

I  often  say  my  prayers, 

But  do  I  ever  pray? 
And  do  the  wishes  of  my  heart 
Go  with  the  words  I  say?  • 

I  may  as  well  kneel  down 

And  worship  gods  of  stone, 
As  offer  to  the  living  God 

A  prayer  of  words  alone. 

Prayer  without  the  faith 

The  Lord  will  never  hear, 
Nor  will  he  to  those  Hps  attend 

Whose  prayers  are  not  sincere. 

If  we  go  back  to  the  beginning  of  this  Church,  we  find  that 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  went  out  to  the  lonely  grove  that  he 
might  offer  up  a  simple,  earnest  prayer  to  his  heavenly  Father, 
desiring  to  know  which  of  all  the  churches  then  existing  upon 
the  earth  Jwas  the  true  church  of  God ;  for  they  were  saying,  "Lo, 
Christ  is  here,"  and  "Lo,  Christ  is  there."  It  was  that  simple, 
earnest  prayer  that  reached  the  throne  of  glory,  and  God  our 
Father  condescended  to  come  and  visit  him  on  the  earth.  What 
glorious  news  to  the  children  of  men,  to  know  that  God  lives, 
has  spoken  again,  and  has  revealed  in  this  day  and  age  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ  unto  the  world.  How  thankful  we  as  a  people  ought 
to  be !  We  ought  to  be  willing,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  sing- 
the  song  with  the  full  meaning  of  the  word,  "We  thank  thee,  O 
God,  for  a  prophet,  to  guide  us  in  these  latter  days."  And  when 
we  are  thinking  and  speaking  of  this  great  Church  of  ours,  I  some- 
times wonder,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  if  there  is  not  too  large 
a  difference  between  the  prayer  that  we  speak  or  utter  and  the 
lives  we  lead.  Everywhere  we  go,  up  and  down  in  this  state  and 
other  states,  we  find  the  urgent  need  of  the  application  of  the  ideals 
and  principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  which  we  believe  and 


ELDER  HENRY  A.  GARDNER 


115 


teach,  more  earnestly,  adopted  in  our  daily  lives.  We  need  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  preached  not  only  from 
the  pulpit  but  taught  and  preached  by  the  example  of  the  lives  that 
we  live.  I  want  to  tell  you  as  a  servant  of  God  that  I  believe  he 
is  not  pleased  with  us  as  a  people  unless  we  do  our  duty.  He  is 
willing,  I  believe,  to  draw  near  unto  us  if  we  will  give  him  the 
opportunity,  if  we  draw  near  unto  him.  Not  everyone  who  saith 
unto  him,  "Lord,  Lord,"  will  enter  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  but 
he  that  doeth  the  will  of  the  Father,  which  is  in  heaven.  We  talk 
about  Latter-day  Saints  and  our  Church,  and  I  grant  you  it  is  a 
wonderful  Church,  for  me  it  is  the  /Church  of  God ;  but  ,  I  some- 
times wonder,  and  I  wondered  this  morning  as  Brother  Daynes 
read  to  us  some  of  the  statistics  regarding  our  own  fair  state — the 
tremendous  amount  of  money  expended  for  those  things  that  the 
Lord  tells  us  jn  a  simple  way  are  detrimental  to  our  health-  -1 
wonder  if  we  are  really  and  truly  living  up  to  the  principles  that 
are  taught  to  us?  Do  those  statistics  indicate  to  us  that  "Mormon- 
ism"  is  not  functioning  as  it  should  function,  that  we  have  not  the 
faith  to  live  the  gospel  as  we  believe  it?  Or  does  it  simply  show, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  are  not  able  to  reach  the  goal 
that  is  set  for  us? 

I  hope  and  pray  that  we  shall  remember  the  counsel  and 
advice  given  to  us  by  the  leaders  of  this  Church,  that  we  may 
be  fitted  and  prepared  for  the  great  responsibility  that  rests  upon 
us  as  members  of  this  Church  in  carrying  the  great  message  of 
peace  on  earth  and  good  will  to  the  sorrowing  hearts  of  mankind. 
Jesus  Christ  did  for  us  the  thing  that  we  are  not  able  to  do  for 
ourselves,  and  made  it  possible  for  us  to  have  the  glorious  privi- 
lege and  opportunity  of  worshiping  God  according  to  the  dictates 
of  our  own  conscience  and  carrying  this  great  message  to  the  sor- 
rowing world,  that  they  too  may  enjoy  the  glorious  principles  of 
Salvation  and  life  that  we  possess.  Everywhere  we  go  we  find  the 
urgent  need  of  the  principles  of  truth,  honesty,  and  integrity  that 
we  believe  in,  to  be  practiced  and  applied  in  the  lives  of  the  people. 
We  are  told  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  that  the  people  of  this  land 
shall  prosper  as  long  as  they  believe  and  obey  the  will  of  the  God 
of  the  land — meaning  that  if  we  do  not  obey  the  principles  of 
truth  and  righteousness,  even  this  fair  country  of  ours,  the  grand 
old  United  States,  may  see  perilous  times. 

I  sometimes  feel  that  unless  we  believe  the  principles  of  the 
gospel  in  our  daily  lives  we  may  stumble  by  the  wayside.  Only 
recently  I  had  a  conversation  with  a  brother  who  said  to  me, 
"Brother  Gardner,  that  which  I  used  to  know,  I  do  not  believe 
now."  And  I  said  to  him,  "I  wish  that  you  would  come  back 
again,  when  I  have  a  few  moments,  that  we  may  have  a  heart-to- 
heart  talk  together."  And,  as  he  enumerated  to  me  some  of  the 
things  that  had  happened  in  his  life — for  I  knew  that  at  one  time 
he  was  a  faithful  brother  in  the  Church ;  I  had  listened  to  him  bear 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  work,  and  had  been  inspired  and 
touched  by  the  sincere  words  that  he  had  uttered — I  found  out  that 
perhaps  some  time  or  other  in  his  life  he  had  been  disappointed,  had 
failed  to  reach  some  particular  office,  or  that  some  brother  in  authority 
had  failed  to  show  him  the  proper  recognition,  or  had  hurt  his  feel- 
ings, and  that  because  of  such  action  he  had  become  dark  and  gloomy 
and  had  drifted  away  from  the  Church.  It  seems  to  me  that  there  can 
be  no  sadder  picture  painted  than  that  of  a  man  who  has  been  instru- 
mental in  instilling  in  others  the  principles  of  the  gospel  and  in  show- 
ing others  the  pathway  of  life,  who  has  planted  faith  and  determination 
in  the  souls  of  men  and  women  to  serve  God  and  keep  his  command- 
ments, and  at  the  closing  days  of  his  life  comes  and  says  to  a  young 
man  whom  he  has  inspired,  "That  which  I  used  to  know,  I  do  not 
believe  now." 

Oh,  I  want  to  tell  you  there  is  no  greater  joy  in  this  world  that 
can  come  to  any  man  living  than  the  joy  of  rendering  service  in  the 
Church  of  God.  Oftentimes  I  feel  my  weakness  and  am  very  humble 
in  trying  to  go  about  to  inspire  and  teach  others  to  do  their  duty 
in  this  Church,  but  I  want  to  acknowledge  to  you  that  I  know  this  is 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  feel  it  in  every  fiber  of  my  soul  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  living  God.  I  feel, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  it  is  your  responsibility  and  mine,  in  order 
that  we  may  fulfil  the  great  destiny  that  God  our  Father  intended 
that  we  should. 

I  do  want  to  say  to  you,  let  us  be  watchmen  upon  the  towers.  Let 
us  remember  who  we  are.  Let  us  remember  that  as  fathers  and  moth- 
ers it  is  our  responsibility  to  see  that  our  children  are  taught,  that  we 
do  have  family  prayer,  tbat  we  do  pray  with  earnestness  and  sincerity, 
that  we  may  enjoy  God's  blessings,  and  that  we  may  be  watchmen  for 
our  children  and  our  neighbors'  children,  that  we  may  be  indeed  our 
brother's  keeper.  But  above  all,  may  we  keep  ourselves  clean  and  un- 
spotted from  the  world,  that  the  Spirit  of  Christ  may  be  in  our  hearts 
and  homes.  For  if  we  have  a  contented  home,  we  are  a  contented  peo- 
ple; and  if  we  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  we  shall  have  joy  in 
this  world  and  in  the  world  to  come. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  with  the  power  of  appreciation,  that  we 
may  have  in  our  hearts  a  love  for  the  truth.  May  we  have  a  desire 
to  acknowledge  the  hand  of  God  in  our  many  blessings,  and  be  willing 
to  bear  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  work,  not  only  abroad  but 
to  the  rising  generation.  I  want  to  tell  you  that  there  are  hundreds 
and  thousands,  not  only  of  the  older  brothers  and  sisters  but  of  the 
younger  brothers  and  sisters,  who  are  hungering  and  thirsting  for 
the  Word  of  God.  We  need  to  teach  them  the  simple  truths  of  "Mor- 
monism."  We  need  to  implant  in  their  hearts  and  lives  a  testimony 
not  only  of  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  but  of  the 
divinity  of  Jesus  the  Christ,  and  that  this  is  his  work.  May  we  be 
equal  to  the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  us,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


117' 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  having  the  privilege  of 
meeting  with  you. 

Yesterday  I  appeared  in  the  tabernacle  in  the  uniform  of  an  officer 
of  the  United  States  army,  and  many  wondered  why  I  should  be 
about  my  official  Church  duties  so*  attired.  In  explanation,  let  me  say 
that  as  a  reserve  officer  of  the  United  States  army,  I  was  under  orders 
yesterday  to  go  to  the  station  and  meet  General  Charles  T.  Summerall, 
Chief  of  Staff  of  the  United  States  army.  His  program  had  been  ar- 
ranged before  he  reached  here,  but  in  conference  with  the  officers  at 
Fort  Douglas  and  the  reserve  officers  in  charge  here,  the  suggestion  was 
made  that  it  might  be  interesting  for  the  General  to  look  upon  a  con- 
gregation of  Latter-day  Saints  in  conference  session.  Accordingly, 
we  planned  for  it,  with  the  permission  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church, 
and  yesterday  morning  as  General  Summerall  arrived  in  the 'city  an 
invitation  was  extended  to  him  to  attend  and  address  the  congrega-  - 
tion.  In  order  that  he  might  do  this,  it  was  necessary  to  shorten  his 
inspection  tour  at  Fort  Douglas  and  the  University  of  Utah.  Upon 
leaving  the  tabernacle,  he  expressed  his  appreciation  for  the  privilege 
he  had  of  sitting  upon  the  stand  and  looking  upon  that  vast  congre- 
gation, and  for  the  music,  and  for  the  privilege  of  saying  a  few  words 
from  the  pulpit  of  that  wonderful  building.  He  left  yesterday  after- 
noon to  continue  his  inspection  tour  of  the  army  posts  of  the  United 
States.  One  of  the  great  outstanding  features  of  his  tour  will  be,  I  am 
sure,  his  visit  with  us. 

While  mentioning  this,  perhaps  it  will  be  proper  for  me  to  say 
that  after  the  World  War,  I  was  offered  a  commission  and  refused  to 
'  accept  it,  feeling  that  there  was  no  further  need  of  my  serving  in  that 
capacity,  knowing  that  my  Church  work  was  all  I  could  possibly  expect 
to  do.  Finally  request  was  made  of  President  Nibley,  who  at  that 
time  was  Presiding  Bishop.  He  authorized  my  enlistment.  I  was 
called  before  a  board,  and  a  commission  with  the  rank  of  Major  in  the 
reserve  corps  was  given  to  me.  I  have  since  been  called  to  the  Presidio 
of  San  Francisco  and  for  two  years  have  been  a  member  of  the  Ninth 
Corps  Area  Conference  Committee.  This  work  I  found  to  be  very 
interesting,  for  it  gave  me  an  opportunity  to  study  army  life  in  all  its 
phases. 

One  little  experience  I  had  there  may  be  interesting  to  you.  As 
members  of  the  Conference  Committee,  we  were  lined  up  waiting  to  take 
conveyances  to  go  on  a  tour  of  inspection,  when  the  officer  in  charge 
called  my  name  and  stated  that  I  was  to  ride  with  the  Commanding 
General.  I  hardly  knew  what  to  expect  of  it.  I  was  almost  the  junior 
officer,  and  as  I  stepped  out  of  line,  my  companion  from  Utah,  who 
was  standing  near,  and  who  is  not  a  member  of  this  Church,  said: 
"Now,  bishop,  cut  out  that  Church  influence."  I  did  not  realize  that 
it  was  Church  influence  for  the  moment.    I  was  somewhat  bewildered, 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


but  I  had  the  privilege  that  day  of  riding  with  the  Commanding  General, 
stepping  ahead  of  men  who  held  higher  offices ;  men  of  greater  service 
and  experience.  It  was  not  until  a  few  days  later  that  I  found  out  what 
this  Church  influence  really  consisted  of,  that  it  was  not  I  who  was  being 
honored;  it  was  you.  It  was  your  sons,  your  brothers,  your  fathers. 
And  I,  as  your  representative,  was  receiving  the  reward  for  your 
service  and  activity. 

As  a  member  of  that  committee  it  was  my  privilege  and  duty  to 
visit  all  departments  of  army  work.  It  was  my  privilege  to  go  into 
any  office,  of  any  department,  of  any  officer,  from  the  Chief  of  Staff 
down,  to  find,  if  possible,  conditions  that  could  be  improved.  In  this 
work  I  discovered  why  I  had  been  so  honored.  I  found  in  all  activities 
that  Utah  stands  at  the  head.  I  found  that  the  University  of  Utah  as 
a  R.  O.  T.  C.  school  stands  in  the  first  rank.  That  our  high  schools— 
the  Ogden,  the  East  High  and  the  West  High,  were  outstanding  in  their 
work.  I  was  proud  of  them.  I  found  that  in  all  our  war  work,  when- 
ever we  have  been  called  into  service,  every  demand  made  by  the  war 
department  had  been  met,  and  met  admirably.  Then  I  fully  realized 
that  it  was  not  I  who  was  being  honored,  but  you,  this  people. 

Last  March  I  was  called  to  attend  a  conference  in  Washington. 
With  nearly  three  hundred  men  we  stood  out  in  front  of  the  Interior 
building  for  the  purpose  of  having  a  picture  taken.  I  was  standing 
about  four  rows  back,  where  my  rank  required  that  I  should  be.  My 
name  was  called,  and  I  was  requested  to  step  down  to  the  front.  As 
I  did  so,  all  eyes  were  turned  upon  me,  for  they  wondered  what  was 
going  to  happen  and  I  wondered  also.  General  Summerall,  who  ad- 
dressed us  yesterday,  was  standing  in  front  of  that  group.  I  was  re- 
quested to  take  my  place  at  his  side.  And  there  I  stood  while  pictures 
of  the  group  were  taken.  I  realized  this  time  that  it  was  not  I  who 
was  being  honored.  I  have  met  with  high  ranking  officers  many  times, 
I  have  been  a  dinner  guest  in  the  homes  of  many,  I  have  had  an  oppor- 
tunity of  finding  out  what  these  officers  were  doing,  trying  to  do  and 
hoping  to  do ;  of  knowing  what  they  thought  of  you  as  a  people  and  of 
you'r  sons,  and  they  do  appreciate  every  helpful  service. 

I  am  not  a  prophet,  and  I  have  no  right  to  prophesy  in  the  name 
of  the  living  God,  but, as  his  servant  I  am  entitled  to  the  inspiration 
of  his  Holy  Spirit,  and  if  I  am  faithful  in  keeping  his  commandments, 
I  should  understand  the  whisperings  of  that  Spirit  and  know  how  to 
act  and  when  to  act.  I  remember  before  we  got  into  the  World  War, 
(I  had  been  called  to  render  service  for  my  country  before  that  time), 
that  on  the  way  to  a  priesthood  meeting  held  in  this  building,  I  men- 
tioned to  my  father,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  who  was  then  president  of  this 
Church,  that  I  thought  something  should  be  said  to  the  men  who  were 
assembled  as  to  how  they  should  conduct  themselves  in  case  we  should 
be  called  upon  to  defend  and  uphold  the  spirit  of  freedom  and  liberty. 
During  that  meeting,  father  turned  to  me  and  requested  that  I  make 
trie  statement  I  thought  necessary.    Briefly  it  was  this,  that  (at  that 


ELDER  DAVID,  A.  SMITH 


119 


time)  I  could  not  see  how  we  could  possibly  avoid  getting  into  war,  for 
the  principles  upon  which  our  nation  was  founded  obligated  us  to  assist 
in  the  cause  of  peace  and  freedom.  I  was  concerned  for  our  boys,  and 
I  advised  that  they  immediately  fill  up  the  organizations  of  our  state 
troops,  that  they  join  the  national  guard,  which  afterward  became  the 
145th,  that  they  get  in,  then,  before  final  enlistments  and  drives  should 
come.  Nothing  had  been  said  of  a  draft  at  that  time.  And  many  of 
you  bishops  and  presidents  of  stakes  and  fathers  went  home  and,  realiz- 
ing the  situation,  advised  your  boys  to  enlist  in  their  local  units,  where 
they  could  have  the  companionship  of  one  another,  where  they  could 
have  in  a  measure,  that  spirit  under  which  they  grew  and  developed, 
to  be  with  them  during  their  enlistment,  and  their  war  experience,  if 
such  experiences  should  come  to  them.  And  finally  they  were  mobilized 
and  ordered  to  the  .Coast,  and  after  a  period  of  training  were  brought 
home  and  encamped  at  Fort  Douglas.  Then  orders  came  to  move  on. 
For  some  days  these  boys  were  seen  lined  up  at  the  Beehive  House  or 
Church  offices,  awaiting  a  blessing.  Day  after  day  it  was  my  pleasure 
to  be  with  my  father  as  he  gave  blessings  to  those  boys — your  boys — 
going  out  to  serve  their  country  in  a  righteous  cause.  And  in  every 
case,  as  I  recall,  the  blessing  pronounced  upon  their  head,  gave  them 
the  promise  that  if  they  would  keep  themselves  clean,  obey  the  laws 
of  the  land,  remember  their  God,  say  their  prayers  in  faith  and  humility, 
and  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  they  would  go  and  return 
uninjured.  As  I  heard  father  pronounce  those  words  time  and  again  on 
those  boys,  and  as  I  saw  them  leave,  not  knowing  what  minute  they 
would  be  on  their  way,  yet  with  joy  in  their  souls  because  of  the  com- 
forting promise,  I  paused  to  wonder !  One  day  in  the  lull,  I  turned  to 
father  and  asked,  "What  is  there  that  impresses  you  to  make  this 
promise?  When  we  read  of  the  great  slaughter  and  destruction  on  the 
other  side,  it  seems  to  me  the  only  possible  thing  that  can  cause  your 
promise  to  come  true  will  be  the  termination  of  the  war  before  the  boys 
get  there."  He  answered :  "I  do  not  know  whether  they  shall  be 
called  to  go  into  battle  or  not,  but  this  I  do  know,  for  the  Lord  has  given 
me  to  understand  and  know;  that  promise  is  made  to  these  young  men 
through  their  faithfulness,  and  if  they  abide  the  commandments  of 
God,  they  shall  return."  Well,  the  rest  of  the  story  you  know.  They 
served  and  met  every  requirement  and  returned  home  again  to  engage 
in  their  pursuits  of  life  uninjured. 

I  am  reminded  of  them  by  General  Surnmerall's  having  been  here. 
Perhaps  it  is  not  just  proper  to  mention  these  things  at  this  time,  but 
I  do  it  because  I  want  you  to  know  that  we  as  a  people  are  looked  upon 
by  the  men  who  are  responsible  for  our  country's  defense,  as  being 
outstanding  in  our  willingness  to  serve.  May  I  mention  one  more 
incident  which  goes  to  show  their  feeling  toward  us. 

At  the  close  of  the  conference  I  attended  in  Washington  last  March, 
General  Cheathem,  the  presiding  officer,  stood  up  to  give  the  closing 
address.    He  made  this  statement.    "We  have  sin  this  body  today,  an 


sq;  q§no.iq;  ';nq  'Smop  s.re  A"sq;  ;bi[a\  Ajresip-iosq;  A"pisiu  Motq  o;  ;ou 
'>jjoa\  ipq;  jo  sjrepp  a"jsa  sq;  o;iq  oS  o;  'usui  sssq;  q;iA\  psjurenbsB 
Siqiuossq  jo  aSajiAud  sq;  pBq  SABq  o;  inpjBjS  are  j  'abs  j  os  puy 

"SSIUUB  piIB  S.I3SIJJ0  SDBsd  SABq  0}  AJBSS3D3U  Sq  qiAY  ;i  'spiXS 

uoiqpuos  req;  sb  Suoj  sy  'smbj  siq  d;  sousipsqo  mo  qSnoaq;  siuos  o; 
pssuuo.id  SBq  poQ  qsiqAi  uoiqpuos  ;bij;  aoj  sdoq  jouires  say  's.isq;o  jo 
;(;sjbs  pire  ssBsd  sq;  uodn  suoi;sb  qsq;  jo  psjjs  sq;  jo  sssjpjBSaj  'spus 
uayo  Jpq;  Siqqsss  sjb  srenpiAipm  sb  Suoj  sb  ;ng  -abayb  3uop  sdBq.isd 
puB  psussssj  sq  sjsdijjo  ssBsd  jo  pssu  sq;  qiAv  u3qj  'a"aus  puB  sssusno 
-J3A03  'sssuqsijps  jo  ;uids  sq;  'ssaij  A\i3A  qsq;  puB  sjnos  qsq;  jo  ;no 
;nd  ires  A"sq;  usqA\  'po;3  saoj  o;  iubs|  A"sq;  usijay  'pog  jo  ;uidg  sq}  s;ba 
-pjno  Usui  U3qy\\    'psuoq  pire  pnf  'SuiAOj-ssBsd  sjb  oijay  ssoq;  ps;oad 

O;  SJ3DIJJ0  SSBsd  3ABq  pjllOqS  SAY  JBqj  A\lBSSSSSU  St  q  'lIOSBSi  }Bqj  J0J 

'.  ;usiusauos  si  q  usqAv  aybj  sq;  A~sqo  oqAv  suios  :  psqsiund  pire  ;qSnBD 
Supq  jo  aab]  sq;  .Supresjq  in  JsSirep  si  s.isq;  usqAY  avbj  sq}  A"sqo  o; 
.isckud  si  q  ;Bq;  psj  oijay  s.isq;o  3.ib  S-isqj,  'pssssjq  s.ib  3A\  a\bj  o; 
33U3ip3qo  qSnoiq;  ;Bq;  s}BpsjddB  say  .ioj  'a\b[  sq}  A"sqo  o;  qSnous  AYouq 
sn  jo  siuog    'a\bj  sq;  A"sqo  'ussq  SBq  sdus.isjuod  siq;  jo  suisq;  3qj^ 

'SDBsd  SinqsqqBjss  puB  jbm 

SuiJUSASid  JO  SUB31U  SlUSIASp  0}  S3I§J3U3  pilB  SjqSnOqJ  JS3q  pUB  3UIIJ 

iisq;  Suijjnd  sjb  asij;  'jbay  Suppss  ;ou  3JB  'ssjb^S  P3^un  J°  ^lU-iy 
sq;  jo  sjibjjb  sq}  Sui;33jq3  sjb  oijav  usra  sq;  ;  sqq.iBA\  jou  3jb  Xsq;  jBqj 
usiu  sssq;  qjiAV  uoijBpossB  Am  in  ps.i3A03sq^  sabij  j  pire  'uosaad  Suiaoj 
-soBad  b  lire  j  •jj.ioaa.  jBqj  o;ui  SiqoS  Km  psiioijDires  Asjqi^ — ;uspis3jj 
a\ou — doqsig  XqM  3zqB3j  oj  SuiuuiEsq  ure  J  A\o  \r  -niaqj  o;  Aioaiqss; 
JBqj  aiuoq  pBq  j  aoj  l(!;suq3  sq;  si  snssf  jbij;  'ssAq  poQ  jBq;  SMouq 
sq  ;bij;  a"bs  pire  sssuBjsumsap  pire  suoijqouoD  A"ub  aspun  dn  puBjs  oj 
SuqpAA  si  oqA\  ubui  b  punoj  jsb|  ;b  sabij  j  reqj  A\B[-ui-asqjBj  pjo  JBsp 
Km  o;  a"bs  oj  SuroS  uib  j  pire  'saioq  SuioS  ure  jM  'pres  pire  jjo  Suiaoui 
sba\  q  sb  jbs  sq;  jo  dsjs  sq;  uodn  SiqpuB;s  sbav  j  sb  pireq  Km  qooqs 
iraui  ssoq;  jo  suq  -uibj;  sq;  o;  usas  piiB  'uoi;b;s  sq;  o;  siu  psAvoqoj 
smog  qs;oq  sq;  o;  /Cbav  sip  no  sin  psuoqssnb  Asqx  "SJOia  Suiq; 
-suios  AAOuq  o;  SupuEAV  siu  puno.iB  pspAAOJD  Usui  sb  'sjsq;  poop  i 

(/psiunofpB  saB  no^  •sdus.idjuos  siq;  jo  sq.iBiusj  Suisop 
sq;  sb  puBjs  qqius  -lofBj^  jo  sqjiBiiisi  sq;  ;sj  o;  SuioS  ure  j  -o;  psuspq 
;snf  SABq  sa\  ipiqA\.  sqaBiusj  sq;  uioaj  pBjpp  Xqio  pjnoAV  X!bs  ppioqs  j 
§inq;^uB  ;Bq;  jssj  j  ;nq  'ssusxsjuos  siq;  jo  sssq^pB  |buij  sq;  asAqsp  o; 
iuB.i.§o.id  sq;  uo  ure  j;)  'pres  pire  dh  poop  uisipBsq^  reasusQ  -psaspqMsq 
reqMSiuos  sba\  j  pire  'ubui  suo  sb  ssojb  usiu  jo  Xpoq  ;bij;  'uMop  ;bs 
puB  psqsiiqj  pBq  j  usqyY\  "sidosd  SiquSissp  puB  |ias  jsuibSb  ;i  pusjsp 
o;  A";np  -ino  sba\  ;i  psAsqsq  sa\  ;bi[;  puB  'jsasjoj  A"psqq  jo  puB]  b  sq 
praoqs  ;i  ;Bq;  pire  uopBii  siq;  psqsqqBps  peq  poQ  psAsqsq  say  req;  rasq; 
pp;  j  -sjdosd  siq;  o;  poQ  jo  sssupooS  sq;  jo  uisq;  o;  a"uouii;ss;  s.ioq 
j  'suoib  sjibjjb  A\iB;qiui  uodn  ;ou  ;nq — os  pip  j  puy  -ssus.isjuo3  req; 
sss.ippB  o;  3ui  uodn  psqB3  spj  </3lui;  siq;  ;b  sn  sss'appB  o;  uiiq  Suijjsb 
jo  A";iim;joddo  sq;  sqB;  o;  §upS  uib  j  -ssiuos  sq  ipiipw  iuojj  pupip 
sq;  jo  sp;q  ^jsa  A\ouq  noj^    'ssirepip  ;bsj§  b  pspABj;  SBq  oqA\  jssijjo 


3DN3H3JN0D  1VX3N3D 


OZl 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


121 


records  and  their  plans,  to  know  just  what  they  are  looking  for  in  the 
future.  I  find  they  are  men  of  high  ideals,  men  untrammeled  by  the 
course  of  politics.  Army  officers  receive  their  position  through  ap- 
pointment, upon  -merit.  They  go  on  year  after  year,  and,  as  in  the 
priesthood,  if  I  may  make  a  comparison,  though  not  for  a  moment 
do  I  think  there  is  an  equality  between  the  two,  but  only  a  similarity, 
for  purpose  of  comparison.  We  hold  the  Priesthood,  and  under  that 
Priesthood  we  are  blessed  as  we  honor  it.  We  grow  in  intelligence  and 
power  to  serve  as  we  serve.  One  of  our  brethren  has  said  during  this 
conference,  one  thing  that  we  want  in  this  Church  is  more  thought  to 
the  gospel  doctrine,  to  the  teachings  of  God.  Let  me  add  to  that,  and 
more  real  service,  which  permits  us  to  apply  that  gospel  and  doctrine 
through  actually  doing  the  things  of  God;  for  it  is  not  alone  through 
the  study  of  the  work  that  we  are  to  gain  salvation,  but  through  doing 
the  things  of  God  which  actually,  require  service.  The  army  of  the 
United  States  is  built  upon  the  same  principle.  Men  develop  as  they 
serve  and  have  ability  to  serve,  and  their  knowledge  enables  them  to 
go  on,  step  by  step.  They  are  not  there  subject  to  any  senator  or 
politician.  Unless  because  of  misconduct,  there  is  no  power  that  can 
remove  them  other  than  the  President  of  the  United  States,  who  is  the 
Commander-in-Chief  of  the  Army  of  the  United  States.  That  gives 
to  them  a  freedom  which  enables  them  to  speak  from  their  heart  that 
which  they  think.  General  Summerall,  because  of  his  position,  is 
familiar  with  the  record  we  have  made  as  a  people,  which  gave  him 
foundation  for  the  statement  he  made.  As  President  Grant  has  said. 
_ "Thank  the  Lord  he  has  said  it,  and  thank  the  Lord  he  could  truthfully 
say  it." 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  should  not  talk  longer.  I  have 
not  said  what  I  intended  to  say.  I  wanted  to  say  something  about  the 
Word  of  Wisdom  and  our  missionary  work.  We  have  sitting  over  there 
in  the  tabernacle,  53  elders  and  nine  lady  missionaries.  I  wish  you 
could  have  been  with  us  last  Wednesdav  night.  We  had  been  in 
session  since  early  morning  and  when  the  time  for  dismissal  came,  they 
were  not  ready  to  go.  They  were  full  of  questions.  They  put  question 
after  question.  And  it  was  8:30  p.  m.  before  we  finally  dismissed  our 
little  meeting.  And  yet  in  that  group  called  to  be  missionaries,  only 
eleven  out  of  the  53  elders  had  assisted  in  baptisms,  not  one  has  ever 
confirmed  a  person  a  member  of  the  Church,  five  have  assisted  in 
administering  to  the  sick,  three  have  assisted  in  consecrating  oil,  five 
have  not  assisted  in  the  blessing  of  the  bread  or  the  water.  Speaking  of 
service,  these  are  just  everv  day  things  that  should  come  to  them  at 
home  and  all  of  which  will  be  required  of  them  when  they  get  into 
the  missionfield.  They  are  not  at  fault  for  not  having  had  the  privilege 
of  performing  these  ordinances.  We  should  see  to  it  that  these  expe- 
riences come  to  them.  This  opportunity  for  service  should  come  to 
them  before  thev  go  into  the  missionfield.  Many  of  them  come  hce 
without  a  testimony  of  the  gospel.   Let  me  remind  you.  that  a  testimony 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  the  gospel  comes  only  through  work.  President  Young  said  that 
more  men  gain  a  testimony  of  this  gospel  while  upon  their  feet  than 
while  upon  their  knees.  We  can  pray  from  now  to  the  end  of  our  days, 
and  prayer  alone  may  not  bring  a  testimony  of  this  work.  But  through 
prayer  and  actual  service,  we  do  get  a  testimony.  '  , 

Don't  you  know  that  every  individual  that  comes  into  this  world 
with  the  promise  of  the  new  and  everlasting  covenant,  has  embodied  in 
his  very  soul  a  testimony  of  this  gospel  ?  That  testimony  we  may  liken 
to  the  parable  of  the  Savior  regarding  the  sower ;  some  of  the  seed,  when 
sown,  falls  upon  stony  ground,  where  it  is  picked  up  by  the  birds  and 
devoured ;  some  in  shallow  soil,  where  it  sprouts  and  grows  for  a  little 
season  and  withers  and  dies ;  spme  in  soil  where  it  grows  up  with  the 
weeds,  and  the  weeds  choke  it  and  prevent  its  growth ;  and  some  in 
•good  soil,  where  it  grows  and  develops  and  brings  forth  fruit  in 
abundance.  That  is  the  condition  of  our  boys  and  our  girls,  and  it  is 
our  duty  as  Latter-day  Saints,  as  men  holding  the  Priesthood,  as 
mothers  and  fathers  in  Israel,  not  to  wait  until  our  boys  get  into  the 
missionfield  before  that  seed  is  watered  and  cultivated  and  cared  for, 
that  it  may  grow  into  a  testimony  and  into  service.  That  should  be 
developed  at  home.  From  the  moment  of  birth,  the  home,  the  parents, 
are  responsible.  The  bishops  of  the  wards  are  responsible  with  the 
parents  for  providing  a  means  for  development  for  these  young  men. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  must  not  talk  longer.  I  rejoice 
in  this  privilege  I  have  of  being  with  you.  I  pray  God  to  bless  you.  I 
rejoice  in  the  fact  that  I  have  fellowship  with  you  in  this  Church!  I 
take  a  pride  in  it.  I  have  found  that  it  is  for  me  a  condition  of  honor 
wherever  I  go ;  for  the  people  of  the  world  are  beginning  to  look  upon 
your  works,  your  faith,  your  lives,  and  your  teachings  as  an  example 
to  be  followed.  To  be  one  with  you,  to  partake  of  these  blessings,  to 
partake  of  these  privileges,  is  indeed  a  most  wonderful  opportunity,  and 
I  thank  God  for  that  blessing  and  that  privilege.  May  his  blessings 
continue  with  us.  May  we  always  be  found  serving  in  faith,  that  we 
may  be  entitled  to  his  promised  blessings,  I  pray;  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem :   "A  prayer  of  thanksgiving." 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Don  Carlos  Young. 

SECOND  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

At  2  o'clock  p.  m.,  October  9,  1927,  a  second  overflow  meeting  was 
held  in  the  Assembly  Hall. 

Elder  John  Wells,  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  presided. 

The  music  and  song  were  given  by  the  Ensign  ward  choir,  Wallace 
Bennett,  conductor ;  Tracy  Y.  Cannon  at  the  organ. 

The  choir  sang,  "Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  salvation." 

The  opening  prayer  was  by  Elder  Charles  B.  Felt. 

An  anthem,  "Send  out  thy  light,"  was  sung  by  the  choir. 


\ 


ELDER  LEE-R.  TAYLOR  123 

ELDER  LEE  R.  TAYLOR 

-  x.  President  of  the  iNebo  Stake 

I  certainly  trust  that  the  prayer  offered  shall  be  answered  and 
fulfilled  in  my  behalf.  I  feel  a  very  weak  instrument  at  this  time  in 
attempting  to  proclaim  the  gospel  of  bur  Lord  and  Master  to  you, 
but  nevertheless  with  Paul,  "I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  gospel,  because 
it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation"  to  all  those  who  accept  its 
principles  and  live  them.  If  considerable  time  and  care  were  taken  in 
the  preparation  of  a  questionnaire,  scattered  very  generally,  and  col- 
lected, and  the  results  tabulated,  and  if  the  main  question  in  that  docu- 
ment were  this,  "What  is  the  great  aim  of  life?"  I  am  sure  that  the 
answers  compiled,  and  the  meanings  boiled  down  to  their  last  stages,  it 
would  be  something  like  this,  especially  to  the  non-members  of  the 
Church,  that  the  great  object  of  life  is  to  have  a  rich,  full,  abundant 
life.  The  answer  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  could  possibly  be  something 
like  this,  "To  be  saved  and  exalted  in  God's  kingdom  is  the  prime  aim 
and  object  of  life." 

If  we  were  to  outline  the  plan  whereby  this  aim  could  be  ac- 
complished, I  think  it  would  well  come  under  three  heads  or  divisions : 
first,  to  develop  right  attitudes — proper  ideals,  if  you  please;  second, 
to  develop  knowledge,  or  the  intellect;  and  third,  to  develop  proper 
habits  or  to  do  the  will  of  God. 

With  our  first  proposition,  then,  we  must  develop  right  attitudes 
or  the  proper  ideals  in  life.  We  must  know  and  teach  our  children  to 
know  that  what  we  are  to  be,  each  day,  each  moment,  each  hour,  we 
are  becoming.  And  in  the  words  of  Thackeray,  we  must  also  know 
that  "we  sow  an  act,  we  reap  a  habit ;  we  sow  a  habit,  we  reap  a 
character ;  we  sow  a  character,  and  we  reap  a  destiny"  in  life.  I  some- 
times wonder  if  our  attitude  in  life  does  not  depend  very  much  more 
upon  faith  than  it  does  upon  reason.  Please  do  not  misunderstand 
me ;  as  important  as  reason  is  in  this  life,  and  it  is  the  power  to  reason 
that  chiefly  distinguishes  man  from  the  lower  animals,  yet  there  are 
too  many  people  in  the  world  today  who-  accept  this  doctrine  alone 
and  quit  at  the  point  that  it  discontinues.  That,  it  seems  to  me,  is 
one  of  the  tragedies  of  life,  to  accept  only  reason.  Accepting  only  that, 
I  doubt  if  one  can  have  the  proper  ideals  or  proper  attitude  toward  life ; 
because  faith  begins  largely  where  reason  ends.  Reason  may  be  said 
to  be  finite,  while  faith  has  no  limits.  Think  of  a  person  who  tried  to 
live,  who  does  live,  only  in  the  realm  of  reason,  who  has  shut  out  from 
his  existence  the  great  field  outside  of  the  field  of  reason—faith.  No 
■  Latter-day  Saint  could  possibly  stop  with  reason  alone.  I  am  sure  that 
testimonies  generally  are  not  gained  by  reasoning  them  out.  We  go  as 
far  as  we  can  by  reason,  and  then  we  depend  upon  a  higher  source,  and 
that  higher  source  takes  us  into  the  realm  of  faith  and  makes  possible 
the  proper  ideals  and  the  proper  attitudes  of-  life. 

Our  second  proposition :  we  must  develop  knowledge,  the  intellect. 
Herein  comes  the  great  battle  against  ignorance.    Intelligence  is  the 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


glory  of  God.  To  know  what  a  wonderful  thing  that  is  in  life,  to  know, 
not  to  be  driven  by  every  wind  of  doctrine  but  at  all  times  to  be  able  to 
make  decisions,  to  reach  conclusions,  through  reason  and  through  faith 
and  thereby  reach  our  second  great  aim  to  our  salvation  and  exaltation 
in  life.  And  I  sometimes  wonder  if  we  take  the  time  that  we  should, 
as  true  Latter-day  Saints,  to  teach  our  children,  in  order  that  they  may 
know.  How  many  evenings,  how  many  Sunday  mornings,  or  Sunday 
afternoons,  when  the  hours  are  long,  do  you  call  others  about  you,  your 
children  particularly?  I  am  most  interested  at  this  moment  in  the  chil- 
dren, in  the  young  people  of  our  Church,  for  next  to  creating  a  human 
soul,  the  divinest  thing  is  to  educate  it  aright.  How  many  times  do  we 
call  them  around  about  us  and  teach  them  to  pray?  How  many  boys 
and  girls  can  repeat  from  memory  the  Lord's  prayer,  the  Beatitudes, 
the  Articles  of  Faith,  and  can  give  a  reason  for  the  hope  that  is  within 
them  regarding  each  of  these?  How  quickly  they  grasp  them !  You  would 
be  surprised  how  they  drink  them  in.  And  I  sometimes  think  that  as 
teachers  of  this  Church,  and  as  exponents  of  the  great  gospel  of  Christ, 
we  overlook  a  valuable  opportunity  in  teaching  our  boys  and  girls  so 
that  they  will  know,  will  have  the  power  to  decide  in  the  hour  of  temp- 
tation. 

Our  third  proposition  is  that  of  developing  right  habits.  This,  the 
power  to  do,  is  the  most  important,  I'm  sure,  of  the  three;  because  it 
is  not  a  matter  of  what  we  say  or  what  we  know  but  what  we  do  in  life 
that  is  going  to  determine  our  happiness,  our  destiny,  our  salvation, 
and  our  exaltation.  Would  that  somehow  we  had  the  power,  that  we 
knew  the  process,  the  formula,  if  you  please,  of  transferring  or  working 
over  that  which  we  know  so  that  it  will  be  a  guide  to  that  which  we  do. 
I  believe  the  nearest  formula  that  we  have,  and  which  will  insure  the 
greatest  success,  is  to  start  in  life  young,  always  to  do  the  right  and  to 
keep  in  mind  that  that  which  we  are  to  be,  every  moment,  every  hour,  we 
are  becoming. 

.And  last,  we  must,  in  order  to  gain  our  aims  and  objectives  in  life, 
enrich  the  lives  of  others.  How  often  others  may  be  about  us  who 
would  like  to  know  the  things  that  we  know,  who  perhaps  do  not  have 
the  peace  of  mind  that  we  possess  regarding  some  of  these  eternal 
principles.  And  yet  we  are  fearful  that  we  might  offend,  or  we  are 
fearful  that  someone  else  could  do  it  better,  and  as  a  result  some  of  our 
near  neighbors,  some  of  our  friends  in  life,  go  through  without  the 
proper  perspective  of  this  gospel. 

It  was  a  joy  in  our  stake,  quite  recently,  to  have  a  veryxievout  Chris- 
tian man  come  back  into  the  Church  after  an  absence  of  37  years. 
Through  lack  of  understanding,  largely  through  the  lack  of  a  kind 
word,  a  warm  handclasp,  a  sympathetic  and  confidential  chat,  as  others 
met  him  upon  the  corner,,  he  felt  that  the  Saints,  that  the  Church  were 
against  him.  Let  me  implore  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  not  to  let 
any  opportunities  pass  in  life  to  enrich  the  lives  of  others,  to  make  them 
conscious  of  the  great  purposes  of  life.  As  to  how  it  may  be  accom- 
plished :  first,  by  our  attitudes,  our  proper  ideals ;  second,  by  the  knowl- 


ELDER  LEE  R.  TAYLOR 


125 


edge  that  we  gain ;  and  last,  by  our  habits  or  the  things  in  life  we  do. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  read  the  words  of  one  who  has  said  something 
.  that  appeals  to  me  very  much. 

"One  ship  drives  east  and  another  drives  west 
With  the  self-same  winds  that  hlow. 
'Tis  the  set  of  the  sails  and  not  the  gales 

That  tell  the  way  to  go. 
Like  the  winds  of  the  sea  are  the  winds  of  Fate; 

We  may  joy  along  through  life, 
But  'tis  the  set  of  the  sail  that  decides  the  gale ; 
And  not  the  calm  or  the  strife." 

It  is  a  pleasure,  at  this  time,  to  tell  you  that  I  feel  very  deeply  the 
truthfulness  of  this  gospel,  and  I  bear  you  this  testimony,  and  I  do  it 
in  humble  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  WHITE 

President  of  the  Yellowstone  Stake 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  I  feel  indeed  humble  in  occupying  this 
position,  and  most  sincerely  trust  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  come 
to  my  aid.  This  is  one  position  where  one  is  solely  dependent  upon  the 
Spirit  of  God,  if  he  shall  utter  the  things  that  are  most  profitable.  I 
have  been  interested  in  the  remarks  of  President  Taylor  in  giving  us 
the  principal  keys,  motives,  the  attitude  that  should  direct  us  in  life. 
I  was  thinking  about  the  words  of  the  Lord  to  the  children  of  Israel, 
"The  Lord  hath  chosen  thee  to  be  a  peculiar  people  unto  himself." 
Living  in  this  age  of  the  world  there  is  ofttimes  a.  tendency  among 
Latter-day  Saints  to  try  to  be  so  much  like  those  of  other  churches  that 
there  appears  to  be  no  means  of  determining  whether  they  are  Latter-day 
Saints  or  members  of  some  other  church,  or  of  none  at  all.  I  think  it  is 
well  that  we  try  to  impress  the  world  and  our  associates  that  we  are  a 
distinct  people — not  that  we  hold  ourselves  as  better  than  they,  except 
as  we  may  do  better,  but  principally  for  the  fact  that  we  bear  a  message 
which  no  other  people  is  in  possession  of. 

How  may  we  obtain  a  testimony  of  the  gospel?  No  doubt  a  number 
of  those  whp  heard  the  teachings  of  Jesus  doubted  the  divinity  of  his 
calling,  and  he  read  their  thoughts  and  said,  "My  doctrine  is  not  mine, 
but  his-  that  sent  me.  If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the 
doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself  ."  We  Latter- 
day  Saints  say  to  the  people  of  the  world,  that  if  they  will  accept  of  the 
doctrines  of  "Mormonism,"  in  faith  and  in  the  spirit  of  true  repentance 
and  humility,  they,  too,  may  obtain  such  a  testimony. 

There  are  certain  features  or  blessings  that  characterize  faith  and 
obedience  to  the  gospel.  The  Savior  in  commissioning  his  disciples, 
before  sending  them  out  to  preach,  gave  them  promises  that  certain 
blessings  should  follow  those  who  would  obey.  Among  those  promises 
were  the  gift  of  faith,  and  the  gift  of  prophesy.  My  attention  is  now 
directed  to  some  incidents  that  have  been  of  peculiar  interest  to!  me 


I 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

coming  from  the  Snake  River  valley.  Many,  many  years  ago,  when  most 
of  the  section  now  comprised  in  the  Yellowstone  stake  was  in  its  rough 
state,  there  was  one  section  covered  with  large  sagebrush  lying  level  and 
beautiful.  No  water  had  yet  been  taken  out  of  the  river,  and  just  a  few 
people  resided  there,  struggling  against  adverse  conditions  and  almost 
discouraged  because  of  the  dryness  of  the  soil.  One  of  the  brethren  of 
.the  Council  of  the  Twelve  was  present  with  a  little  body  of  Saints  in  our 
stake.  A  brother  remarked  to  him,  as  the  visitor  was  being  entertained 
at  his  home,  "I  have  dug  a  hole  here  in  the  hope  of  getting  water,  but  I 
suppose  it  is  hopeless."  The  visiting  brother,  being  inspired  of  the  Lord, 
said  to  the  brother,  "Do  not  fill  up  the  well ;  you  will  yet  have  water  in 
the  well,  and  that  within  a  short  time."  They  had  already  gone  through 
a  few  years  of  trial  and  had  made  similar  attempts  but  without  success. 
But  within  a  year  following  that  prophecy,  water  appeared  in  that  well. 
Since  that  time  everyone  who  desired  it  has  obtained  water.  Water  is 
plentiful.  That  section,  then  so  barren  and  uninviting,  is  the  paradise 
of  the  upper  Snake  river  valley,  the  famed  Egin  bench. 

Another  incident  >  comes  to  me.  In  1909,  when  our  stake  was 
organized,  two  of  the  brethren,  shortly  after  the  selection  of  the  presi- 
dency, and  a  few  other  stake  officers,  proceeded  with  the  new  presidency 
to  different  parts  of  the  stake  to  set  the  wards  in  order.  They  went  into 
one  ward,  which  previous  to  that  time  had  been  a  part  of  the  Fremont 
stake.  There  was  a  vacancy  in  the  bishopric,  one  counselor.  These 
brethren  made  the  visit  to  .select  the  other  counselor.  As  they  sat  in  the 
little  ward  chapel,  with  its  pulpit  in  the  west  and  the  entrance  at  the  east, 
they  went  over  the  matter,  trying  to  determine  upon  the  right  man  to  fill 
the  vacancy.  But  they  could  hardly  find  one  who  seemed,  according  to 
the  judgment  of  the  bishop,  to  be  the  right  man.  While  they  were  yet 
discussing  the  matter,  a  brother  opened  the  door  to  the  east  and  called 
out  across  the  room  to  one  of  the  brethren  sitting  on  the  stand,  "Brother, 
you  are  wanted  on  the  outside."  Our  visiting  brother  beckoning  to  him 
said,  "Brother  come  in,  come  in."  Turning  to  the  brethren  behind,  he 
said,  "Brethren,  there  is  your  man."  He  had  no  knowledge  of  having 
ever  seen  that  man  before.  Who  told  him  that  that  was  the  man  to  fill 
the  place  in  the  bishopric  ?  What  spirit  told  him  that  that  man  was  even 
a  member  of  the  Church?  The  man  was  selected,  and  I  am  a  living  wit- 
ness to  the  fact  that  he  served  in  that  capacity  faithfully  and  well  for  a 
number  of  years,  even  up  to  his  death.  •  • 

I  could  enumerate  a  number  of  such  incidents  as  proof  of  the  ful- 
filment of  the  promise  made  by  the  Savior  that  these  signs  shall  follow 
them  that  believe.  ' 

I  wish  to  support  most  heartily  the  remarks  of  President  Taylor 
with  reference  to  teaching  in  the  home.  I  fear,  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  we  arc  not  giving  enough  attention  to  the  training  of  our  children 
in  the  home.  Too  often  parents  thrust  the  entire  responsibility  of 
training  their  children  upon  the  organizations  of  the  Church,  forgetting 
that  at  the  hearthstone,  where  the  family  may  assemble  and  have  their 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  WHITE 


127 


family  prayer  and  devotion,  is  the  place  where  the  most  important  train- 
ing and  the  greatest  impression  may  be  given. 

Let  me  say  further,  that  I  sometimes  feel  that  our  people  trust  their 
children  too  much — not  that  we  wish  to  lack  faith  in  our  children,  but 
remember  they  are  human.  With  the  many  temptations  about  us,  some- 
times those  children,  and  perhaps  we  as  well,  do  things  that  are  not 
always  in  keeping  with  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.,  Sometimes  some  friend 
would  feel  to  give  us  warning  of  dangers  that  beset  our  children,  and  we 
turn  them  aside  and  say,  "I  do  not  believe  a  word  of  it."  I  think  it 
is  well  to  give  heed  to  any  kind  word  that  may  come  from  our  neighbor. 
I  invite  it  ^rom  our  good  neighbors.  If  they  can  help  my  wife  and 
me  by  offering  us  a  suggestion  of  how  dangers  may  be  avoided,  with 
which  our  children  are  confronted,  we  will  thank  them  for  it. 

Another  thing,  brothers  and  sisters,  that  impresses  me.  I  believe 
that  the  important  factors  that  contribute  vitally  to  the  development 
of  our  children  and  to  the  advancement  of  the  Lord's  purposes  is  the 
education  of  our  children  in  our  Church  schools  where  they  may  be 
prepared  to  go  into  the  world  as  ministers  of  the  word  of  God.  We 
note  that  when  they  return  home  they  seem  to  bring  life  and  spirit  into 
our  wards.  I  hope,  brothers  and  sisters,  that  we  will  look  upon  the 
privilege  granted  us  of  sending  our  sons  and  daughters  abroad  as  a 
very  important  opportunity ;  it  means  so  much  to  the  lives  of  these  young 
people  even  aside  from  the  great  good  they  may  do  in  carrying  the  truth 
to  the  people  of  the  earth. 

I  wish  before  closing,  to  bear  you  my  humble  testimony.  I  know 
the  gospel  which  we  have  embraced  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  that 
it  possesses  all  the  saving  principles  that  will  protect  and  preserve  us, 
make  us  happy  in  life  and  prepare  us  for  a  future  in  the  eternities. 

iMay  the  Lord  give  us  faith.  ,  May  we  always  have  the  spirit  of 
humility  and  a  desire  to  do  his  will,  I  humbly  pray,  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

Florence  Higgs  sang  a  soprano  solo :    "Lead,  kindly  light." 

ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  PALMER 

President  of  the  Parozvan  Stake 

It  is  a  bit  disconcerting,  I  assure  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
be  called  out  of  the  congregation  and  asked  to  occupy  a  portion  of  the 
time  of  these  meetings,  at  which  the  Saints  have  gathered  from  almost 
the  ends  of  the  earth  to  be  fed  the  bread  of  life.  I  am  tremendously 
impressed  with  the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  the  elder  who  presumes 
to  occupy  even  a  few  brief  minutes  of  this  precious  time,  and  I  desire 
very  much  the  support  of  your  faith  and  prayers,  to  the  end  that  the 
Lord  will  bless  me  with  his  Spirit,  and  draw  from  me  those  things  which 
he  would  have  you  receive.  I  believe  that  it  is  quite  as  much  the  privilege 
of  the  congregation  to  receive  the  blessings  of  inspiration  and  to 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


receive  it  through  the  speaker  as  it  is  the  privilege  of  the  speaker  to 
have  that  inspiration. 

I  have  been  impressed  with  the  strength  and  the  growth  everywhere 
evident  in  the  Church.  When  we  see  the  Saints  gather  at  these  great 
conferences,  the  young  people  mingling  with  the  old,  it  is  evidence  suf- 
ficient that  faith  is  not  dead,  but  that  the  Church  is  growing  in  strength 
and  in  power  and  in  influence. 

I  was  impressed  this  morning  with  the  talks  that  were  given  by 
President  Charles  W.  Nibley  and  by  Elder  Stephen  L.  Richards  on 
-  those  two  somewhat  commonplace  principles  of  our  faith,  tithing  and 
the  Word  of  Wisdom.  They  expounded  those  principles  much  better 
than  I  could  ever  hope  to  do,  but  in  the  few  brief  moments  of  the  time  ■ 
allotted  to  me ;  I  desire  to  hear  my  testimony  to  you  of  the  blessings 
that  accompany  the  living  of  those  principles.  I  like  to  find  some 
logical  connection  between  the  promises  of  the  gospel  and  the  expe- 
rience of  my  every-day  life.  I  am  not  one  of  those  who  look  for  the 
mysterious,  the  mystic,  and  the  miraculous.  I  like  to  read  of  the  bless- 
ings, the  promises,  and  their  fulfilment,  in  the  every-day  affairs  of  my 
life  and  in  every-day  experiences.  And  it  is  in  this  light  that  I  desire  to 
interpret  to  you  my  understanding  of  these  precious  principles  of  truth. 

The  Word  of  Wisdom  is  given  to  us  as  a  principle  with  promise. 
The  promises  that  we  have  in  that  great  revelation  are  these,  that  we 
shall  have  strength  of  body,  that  we  shall  walk  and  not  be  weary,  that 
,  we  shall  run  and  not  faint,  that  the  destroying  angel  shall  pass  us  by 
as  the  children  of  Israel  and  not  slay  us;  and  that  there  shall  come  to 
us  through  the  observance  of  that  principle,  treasures  of  wisdom  and  of 
knowledge,  yea  even  hidden  treasures.  Some  time  ago  a  brother  came 
to  me  with  a  somewhat  visionary  and  impractical  proposition  which  he 
wanted  me  to  support,  and  said  to  me  that  this  had  come  to  him  as  one 
of  the  hidden  treasures  of  knowledge  through  the  observance  of  the 
Word  of  Wisdom.  Now,  just  what  is  the  meaning  of  these  promises? 
Does  it  mean  that  if  I  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  abstain  from 
tea,  coffee  and  tobacco  and  strong  drink,  that  1  can  walk  and 
never  get  weary,  or  that  I  can  run  all  day  and  never  get  faint?  I  do 
not  understand  it  so.  I  see  this  in  it,  it  is  a  simple  law  of  health.  If 
I  have  been  a  violator  of  this  law  of  health  and  then  repent  of  that 
and  keep  the  law  of  health,  I  will  have  an  increased  capacity  to  walk 
and  not  be  weary,  to  run  and  not  faint.  In  other  words,  my  capacity, 
my  physical  strength,  will  be  increased  to  me  so  that  I  can  accomplish 
more  in  a  day's  work.  And  that  is  the  realization  of  the  blessing  to  me. 
And  this  promise  of  hidden  treasures  of  knowledge — we  know,  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  we  knew  it  as  a  people,  those  who  had  faith  in  the  word 
of  the  Lord,  long  before  the  scientific  world  knew  it.  But  the  scientific 
world  knows  it  today,  perhaps  better  than  we  know  it,  that  tobacco 
and  tea  and  coffee  and  strong  drink  does  inhibit  our  mental  processes, 
shuts  down  and  restricts  our  capacity  to  reason,  to  analyze.  Now,  if  I 
have  been  breaking  the  law  and  then  1  repent  of  it  and  keep  the  com- 


ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  PALMER  129 


mandments  of  the  Lord,  my  mind  expands  and  there  is  opened  to  me  a 
whole  world  of  treasures  of  knowledge  and  of  wisdom  that  before  had 
been  hidden  from  me.  And  so  I  see  in  the  observance  of  this  law.  of 
the  Lord  an  increase  of  wisdom  or  an  increase  of  capacity  to  work  and 
receive  wisdom;  because  my  mind  can  analyze  and  penetrate  farther 
in  its  mental  processes. 

Now  that  other  promise  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  that  the  destroy- 
ing angel  shall  pass  us  by  as  the  children  of  Israel  and  not  slay  us. 
Where  is  the  fulfilment  of  that?  You  can  read  it  in  the  statistics  of 
the  Church,  the  mortality  rate  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  is  lower 
than  even  among  the  picked  risks  of  the  insurance  companies  of  the 
world.  Now,  what  is  the  meaning  of  those  statistics?  It  means  that 
the  Lord  is  lengthening  our  days.  We  do  not  keep  this  law  100%. 
We  are  not  as  faithful  in  it  as  we  should  be.  But  just  in  proportion 
as  we  do  keep  it,  just  in  proportion  as  we  have  been  faithful  in  the 
observance  of  that  law,  the  Lord  has  blessed  us,  and  as  a  people  our 
days  are  lengthened. 

And  so  with  this  principle  of  tithing.  It  also  is  a  principle  of 
promise,  a  promise  of  temporal  blessings.  "Prove  me  now  herewith, 
saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  if  I  will  not  open  you  the  windows  of  heaven, 
and  pour  you  out  a  blessing  that  there  shall  not  be  room  enough  to  re- 
ceive it."  I  have  faith  in  that  principle.  Now,  I  know  there  are  always 
those  who  say,  "Here  is  this  brother  who  does  not  live  his  religion, 
who  seems  to  care  nothing  about  his  faith,  and  yet  everything  he 
touches  seems  to  turn  to  gold ;  and  here  is  this  other  brother,  who  is 
as  faithful  as  can  be,  but  can  hardly  keep  the  wolf  away  from  the  door.". 
The  thing  that  is  wrong  in  that  analysis  seems  to  me  to  be  that  this  is 
a  principle  given  to  a  people,  as  well  as  a  principle  to  individuals.  There 
are  always  exceptions  to  the  rule,  and  these  are  the  exceptions  to  the 
rule.  I  do  not  regard  this  promise  as  a  promise  of  great  wealth  to  us. 
I  do  not  ask  the  Lord  to  send  me  great  wealth  for  the  reason  that  I 
keep  the  law  of  tithing.  I  take  it  that  his  promise  to  me  is  that  if  I 
keep  that  law  I  shall  have  plenty,  I  shall  not  want.  pVIaybe,  if  the  Lord 
showered  wealth  upon  me  it  would  be  a  curse  rather  than  a  blessing. 

Now,  brothers  and  sisters,  if  we  have  faith  in  that  law  and  observe 
it  and  have  the  assurance  in  our  souls  that  we  will  not  want,  is  there 
any  more  to  worry  about  ?  We  strive,  scheme  and  work  to  build  up  a 
bank  account,  and  to  create  a  large  estate  of  houses,  lands,  cattle 
and  so  on,  just  so  that  we  may  not  want  and  that  our  loved  ones  who 
are  dependent  upon  us  may  not  come  to  want.  Brothers  and  sisters,  if 
we  keep  this  law  of  the  Lord,  we  shall  not  want.  We  are  not  as  a 
people  observing  the  law  of  tithing  100%.  We  are  not,  perhaps,  keep- 
ing it  75%  or  50%,  but  to  some  extent  we  are  observing  that  law. 
And  are  we  a  blessed  people?  I  look  over  this  congregation,  I  have 
observed  people  on  this  square.  We  are  a  well  fed  people,  a  well  clothed 
people,  there  is  no  evidence  of  want  among  us.  The  Lord  has  gener- 
ously fulfilled  his  promises  to  us.  And  it  is  my  humble  faith  and 
testimony  to  you  that  if  we  keep  these  laws,  the  blessings  that  are 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


predicated  upon  them  and  that  are  promised  ,to  us  will  be  ours.    I  bear 
you  this  testimony  humbly  and  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  K.  NICHOLES 

President  of  the  St.  George  Stake 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  have  listened  with  great  interest  to 
these  services,  and  to  the  other  services  which  I  have  attended  through- 
out this  conference.  1  have  had  greater  interest  during  the  short  time 
that  I  have  occupied  a  leading  position  in  our  stake,  for  the  reason  that 
I  desire  to  take  home  to  our  people  the  messages  of  the  conferences 
which  I  attend.  I  have  tried  to  analyze  the  message  given  by  each 
speaker,  with  the  hope  that  when  I  return  I  may  take  that  home. 

I  am  more  particularly  interested,  as  President  Taylor  has  said  he 
is,  in  the  young  people  of  our  stake;  because  I  believe  that  the  hope 
of  Israel  resides  in  them.  And  I  believe,  too,  that  if  we  can  inspire 
these  young  people  with  a  testimony  of  the  gospel  which  we  have 
espoused,  that  no  greater  good  can  come  to  them  than  through  this 
source.  I  recognize  that,  in  general,  we  have  the  motive  powers  of 
life — the  great  joys  and  pleasures  of  life,  the  sympathies  of  our  lives, 
have  their  sources  in  our  religious  services. 

I  believe  that  the  opening  services  of  this  conference  are  more 
easily  analyzed  than  the  later  services.  I  believe  that  I  can  appeal 
to  the  young  people  to  recognize  the  necessity  of  law  enforcement 
easier  than  I  can  give  them  the  desire  for  a  testimony,  the  kind  of  a 
testimony  which  men  of  long  years  of  experience  bear  before  our  people. 

I  have  tried  to  analyze  this  problem  of  a  testimony,  and  I  agree 
that  it  is  not  an  easy  matter.  There  is  not  as  much  evidence  of  a 
reasoning  character  to  appeal  to  as  we  might  think.  And  yet  the  greatest 
things  of  life  lie  beneath  the  certainty  of  this  testimony.  I  think  this 
is  also  paralleled  in  the  fact  that  the  greatest  forces  in  nature  are  those 
we  are  not  able  to  measure.  It  is  not  easy  to  analyze  the  strength  that 
is  in  men  which  we  call  personality.  It  is  not  easy  to  analyze  the  fact 
that  the  greatest  joy  in  life  comes  through  parenthood.  And  especially 
it  seems  to  me  that  it  would  be  difficult  to  have  a  young  unmarried 
man  or  woman  believe,  in  this  day  and  age,  that  possibly  the  greatest 
joys  in  life  do  come  through  parenthood.  And  yet  those  who  have 
become  parents  and  who  know  this  great  source  of  joy  and  satisfaction 
will  testify  that  this  is  the  case.  These  are  facts.  In  the  midst  of  an 
economic  drive  like  we  live  in  today,  and  unknown  in  the  world  before, 
the  fact  might  be  against  a  testimony  that  the  greatest  joys  in  life 
come  through  the  family.  A  great  teacher  in  the  University  of  Chicago, 
Dr.  Cope,  has  said  that  the  family  is  the  sure  way  to  walk  the  path  of 
the  cross.    We  who  are  parents  can  testify  of  the  truthfulness  of  this. 

Now,  it  is  not  easy  to  analyze  any  fact,  and  obtain  through  the 
reasoning  powers  alone' the  great  force  of  a  testimony  of  the  divine 
authenticity  of  our  religious  doctrine,  and  yet  those  of  us  who  have 


ELDER  JOSEPH  H.  NICHOLES 


131 


had  sufficient  experience  know  that  this  is  the  case.  After  our  services 
the  other  day  when  the  missionary  presidents  spoke,  I  wondered  if  we 
could  pass  before  us  the  essential  doctrines  of  all  the  creeds  in  the 
world — and  they  would  number  hundreds — if  we  had  the  power  to 
analyze  the  essential  doctrines  of  all  these  creeds,  and  through  our 
intellect  determine  which  of  all  these  things  were  right,  whether  we 
would  not  have  great  difficulty  indeed.  I  believe,  though,  that  the 
student,  through  the  general  processes  of  reasoning  which  are  applied 
to  him,  in  his  daily  life,  through  his  training  in  high  school,  in  the  district 
school,  and  through  his  college  days,  would  adopt  that  as  the  natural  re- 
course, and  he  may  challenge  you  and  me,  when  we  bear  testimony  that 
this  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  to  know  the  reasons  upon  which  we  base 
that  assertion.  This  student  might  say,  "Have  you  reviewed  all  the  doc- 
trines in  the  world  and  know  through  this  examination  that  yours  are 
true  ?"  I  would  have  to  say  that  I  have  not.  "Do  you  know  through  travel 
the  world  over  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  which  we  have  espoused 
is  true?"  And  with  many  I  would  have  to  say  that  I  have  not  so  traveled, 
but  it  is  the  testimony  borne  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  that  is  all- 
essential. 

I  had  an  experience  once  sitting  before  Brother  Ballard,  which 
gave  to  me  one  of  the  finest  evidences  of  the  divinity  of  this  work 
that  I  know  of.  I  heard  him  speak  upon  the  redeeming  power  of  Jesus, 
the  redemption  of  his  atoning  blood.  This  subject  to  me  had  never 
been  interesting,  but  in  the  light  in  which  he  placed  it,  it  became  so. 
Without  much  analysis  he  proceeded  to  testify,  through  a  period  of  about 
one  hour,  of  the  divinity  of  Jesus,  the  fact  that  he  had  lived  and  died 
for  us,  and  I  saw  men -and  women  on  every  side  of  me  weep  with  joy  and 
satisfaction,  and  I  said  to  myself  that  if  I  ever  knew  anything,  if.  I 
knew  that  I  lived,  I  knew  that  what  this  man  said  was  true. 

Sometimes  when  I  have  been  called  upon  to  bless  little  children 
I  have  tried  to  question  myself  as  to  what  was  the  most  important' 
thing  to  present  in  a  blessing  upon  the  head  of  a  child.  As  a  father 
I  would  say  that  the  most  important  thing  in  the  world  is  faith,  faith 
to  believe,  faith  to  see,  faith  to  hope,  faith  to  understand,  faith  to 
desire  to  do  the  right  thing  in  the  world,  faith  necessary  to  cause  a 
man  and  a  woman  to  serve  each  other.  One  of  the  finest  things  that 
I  have  learned  in  the  Church  is  the  continued  sacrifice  of  men  and 
women  in  this  wonderful  service,  the  great  quantity  of  unpaid  labor 
in  this  Church.  I  sometimes  wonder  how  a  man  or  woman  can  give 
so  much  time  and  effort  to  the  common  service  of  all  the  Saints. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  in  this  wonderful  gospel  of  ours. 
The  finest  thing  that  has  come  into  my  life  is  an  opportunity  to  serve. 
I  rejoice  because  of  the  people  that  I  live  with,  who  make  my  life 
happy,  who  help  me  to  see  the  joy  in  each  day.  I  rejoice  in  the  message 
of  the  gospel.  I  pray  that  we  shall  all  learn  more  and  more  as  we  live. 
How  wonderful  it  is  to  know  that  Jesus  lives,  that  he  is  the  Christ, 
the  son  of  the  living  God,  and  that  in  him  there  is  life  and  light  and 
hope  and  wisdom  and  salvation  and  all  that  life  holds  near  and  dear 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


unto  us.  May  we  rejoice  in  the  privileges  that  we  have  to  serve  one 
another  and  the  great  Master  of  all,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

Elder  J.  Robert  Smith  sang  a  tenor  solo :  "I  think  when  I  read  that 
sweet  story  of  old." 

ELDER  HEBER  J.  MEEKS 

President  of  the  Kanab  Stake 

I  have  been  coming  up  to  the  general  conferences  of  the  Church 
for  sixteen  years.  In  that  length  of  time  I  have  missed  only  three 
conferences,  and  during  all  the  conferences  that  L  have  attended  I 
have  been  thrilled  by  the  spirit  and  teachings  of  the  brethren.  During 
the  sessions  of  this  conference  ,1  have  been  thrilled.  My  heart  has 
been  made  to  rejoice.  I  have  seen  many  situations  arise  in  the  Church, 
but  the  Lord  has  provided  a  way  by  which  every  situation  has  been 
met.  He  has  placed  inspired  men  at  the  head  of  the  Church,  and  he 
is  wielding  an  unseen  hand  and  power  over  this  people. 

I  rejoice  that  we  have  a  progressive  Church,  an  organization  which 
provides  for  the  service  of  all  its  members,  that  they  may  all  find 
work  to  do  and  thereby  enrich  their  own  souls  and  help  to  enrich  the 
souls  of  their  brethren  and  sisters.  It  seems  to  me  that  without  in- 
spiration it  would  be  difficult  to  organize  a  church  that  would  meet 
the  needs  and  requirements  of  the  present  day.  This  Church  was 
organized  under  the  direction  of  a  youth,  but  the  foundations  were 
laid  so  well  and  ,so  deeply  that  it  has  provided  not  only  for  the  present 
day  but  for  the  future,  and  we  will  find  the  Lord  providing  a  means 
for  this  people  to  accomplish  the  work  they  have  set  their  hands  to 
do.  I  am  grateful  that  I  was  born  in  the  Church,  that  my  father  knew 
the  Prophet  Joseph.  He  has  told  me  many  times  that  the  Prophet 
called  at  his  house  at  Nanvoo  only  a  few  days  before  his  martyrdom 
and  said,  "Brother  Meeks,  the  Saints  will  yet  go  to  the  Rocky  Moun- 
tains, and  you  will  go  with  them,"  and  told  him  many  things  that 
would  transpire'  after  the  Saints  came  to  the  mountains,  and  especially 
to  my  father  and  his  family — all  of  which  came  true.  After  the 
Prophet's  death,  the  Saints  were  in  great  distress  of  mind  and  anxiety 
regarding  the  future  of  the  work,  and  my  father  testified  that  when  the 
Saints  were  called  together  and  Sidney  Rigdon  made  claim  to  the 
guardianship  of  the  Church  and  spoke  in  behalf  of  his  claims  for 
something  like  two  hours  to  the  assembled  Saints,  that  he  was  there 
and  heard  him,  and  when  President  Young  arose  when  Sidney  was 
through,  my  father  testified  that  Brigham  Young  spoke  with  the  voice 
of  Joseph  Smith,  that  the  mantle  of  Joseph  fell  upon  him.  He  wit- 
nessed it,  and  he  bore  testimony  to  that  truth.  And  it  seems  that  it 
was  burned  into  my  soul  to,  honor  and  revere  those  two  great  men. 

Those  who  have  succeeded  have  also  been  prophets  of  the  living 
God  and  have  been  rightful  successors  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  to 
Brigham  Young.     These  brethren  have  each  been  given  a  period 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  MEEKS 


133 


of  presidency.  The  Prophet's  presidency  has  passed  away,  gone  into 
eternity,  and  he  is  there  giving  an  account  of  the  years  when 
he  presided  over  the  Church.  President  Young  likewise  has  passed 
beyond.  His  administration  has  gone  by,  but  he  stands  at  the  head 
of '  that  time  and  will  stand  there  throughout  all  eternity,  and 
he  must  give  an  account  of  his  stewardship,  of  his  presidency.  And 
their  successors  have  been  given  their  presidencies,  just  as  every 
president  of  a  stake  and  every  bishop  of  a  ward  has  been  given  a 
period  of  presidency.  They  must  account  for  that  not  only  here 
but  in  eternity;  for  we  will  be  [associated  with  this  great  organization 
there,  and  the  kindred  spirits  with  whom  we  associated  here  will  be 
associated  with  us  there,  and  (if  there  have  been  'differences,  errors, 
creep  in  during  our  administrations,  they  must  be  corrected,  and  we 
must  be  responsible  for  the  part  that  we  play.  Therefore,  I  feel  the 
great  responsibility  that  rests  upon  me  in  presiding  over  a  stake  of  Zion. 

I  am  grateful,  as  I  said  before,  for  the  organization  that  provides 
for  the  service  of  all  its  members,  and  in  analyzing  the  teachings  of 
this  gospel  and  what  it  means,  what  priesthood  means  to  us,  it  seems 
to  me  that  it  may  be  summed  up  in  these  words,  "It  is  the  pref  ect  plan 
of  (service. "  There  can  be  no  better  plan  devised  for  people  to  serve, 
both  young  and  old,  and  the  Lord  has  inspired  this  wonderful  organiza- 
tion, and  it  bears  the  stamp  of  divinity  and  is  recognized  by  those  who 
study  it.  There  is  no  human  organization  to  compare  with  it.  I 
appreciate  the  fact  that  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  not  only 
spiritual  salvation  but  temporal,  and  if  we  will  observe  the  simple 
teachings  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  we  will  be  saved,  both  spirit- 
ually and  temporally. 

May  we  be  given  strength  and  power  to  withstand  the  temptations 
that  come  to  us.  May  we  be  given  strength  and  power  to  live  the 
simple  truths  of  the  everlasting  gospel,  that  we  may  grow  in  love, 
that  we  may  grow  in  knowledge  of  the  truth,  and  that  we  may  have 
•  the  favor  and  the  approval  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  I  humbly  ask, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

We  have  listened  this  afternoon  to  testimonies  of  the  truth  of  the 
gospel,  also  to  advise,  counsel  and  instructions  dealing  with  our 
temporal  and  spiritual  affairs.  We  have  appreciated  the  wonderful 
music  rendered  by  the  choir,  appointed  for  this  meeting.  One  of  the 
soloists  sang  the  hymn,  "Suffer  little  children  to  come  unto  me."  The 
remarkable  incident  of  the  blessing  of  children  occurred  in  the  little 
village  of  Ephron,  in  the  district  (of  Perea,  on  the  east  side  of  the 
Jordan  valley,  just  before  the  Master  started  his  journey  to  Jerusalem 
to  be  crucified. 

The  speakers  at  the  tabernacle  session  have  urged  us  to  obey  the 
laws  of  the  country,  to  sustain  the  constitution,  and  to  observe  the  Word 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  Wisdom  and  the  law  of  tithing.  Our  faith  has  been  strengthened 
by  marvelous  stories  concerning  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  One  of  the  brethren  speaking  in  the  tabernacle  quoted 
the  statement  of  Jesus : 

"Cohie  unto  me,  all  ye  that  labor  and  are  heavy  laden,  and  I  will  give  you  rest. 
"Take  my  yoke  upon  you,  and  learn  of  me ;  for  I  am  meek  and  lowly  in  heart : 
and  ye  shall  find  rest  unto  your  souls." 

This  thought  occurred  to  me :  Were  the  Master  here  today 
thousands  in  this  building  could  say :  "Master,  we  have  come  to  thee. 
We  have  listened  to  the  call  of  thy  servants.  We  have  obeyed  the 
gospel.  Testimonies  have  been  given  us  of  its  truth.  The  burden 
of  doubt  concerning  you  has  left  us.  We  have  found  rest  for  our  souls." 
The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  will  give  rest  and  contentment  to  any  person 
who  will  obey  and  live  it. 

THE  SABBATH  DAY 

I  want  to  use  the  remainder  of  the  time  allotted  to  me  to  call  to 
your  attention  one  subject  that  has  not  been  spoken  on  during  this 
conference,  and  that  is,  the  observance  of  the  Sabbath,  or  the  Lord's  day. 
During  the  last  few  years  many  changes  have  occurred  in  the  social 
life  of  the  people,  caused  by  the  automobile,  motion  pictures  and  the 
great  world  war,  which  has  had  a  detrimental  effect  on  the  observance 
of  the  Lord's  day  of  rest.  In  addition  to  these  conditions,  a  habit  is 
growing  to  hold  football  and  baseball  games,  Sunday  concerts  with  or 
without  pay,  Sunday  railroad  excursions,  etc.,  and  places  of  amusement 
and  resorts  are  open  on  the  Lord's  day,  and  even  some  places  of  busi- 
ness. 

LAW  OF  MOSES 

The  great  law  giver,  Moses,  at  one  time  gathered  the  Hebrews 
around  Mount  Sinai  so  that  they  could  see  the  manifestations  of  the 
power  of  the  Lord.  At  that  time  there  was  delivered  to  him  that  re- 
markable series  of  laws  known  as  the  Decalogue,  or  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments. The  opening  of  this  remarkable  series  of  commandments 
says:  "I  am  the  Lord  thy  God  which  hath  brought  thee  out  of  the 
land'  of  Egypt;  out  of  the  house  of  bondage,"  and  among  those  ten 
commandments  he  gave  these : 

"Remember  the  sabbath  day,  to  keep  it  holy. 
"Six  days  shalt  thou  labor,  and  do  all  thy  work : 

"But  the  seventh  day  is  the  sabbath  of  the  Lord  thy  God :  in  it  thou  shalt 
not  do  any  work,  thou,  nor  thy  son,  nor  thy  daughter,  thy  manservant,  nor  thy 
maidservant,  nor  thy  cattle,  nor  thy  stranger  that  is  within  thy  gates." 

Later  the  Lord  re-stated  this  law  to  Moses,  and  he  said : 

"Verily  my  sabbaths  ye  shall  keep;  for  it  is  a  sign  between  me  and  you 
throughout  your  generations ;  that  ye  may  know  that  I  am  the  Lord  that  doth 
sanctify  you.    *   *  * 

"Wherefore,  the  children  of  Israel  shall  keep  the  sabbath.  It  is  a  sign  between 
ime  and  the  children  of  Israel  forever." 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


135 


To  the  credit  of  the  Hebrew  people  they  did  observe  the  Sabbath. 
Even  in  their  captivity  and  when  in  bondage  to  foreign  nations  they  did 
their  best  to  rest  on  the  seventh  day.  Before  the  advent  of  the  Messiah 
two  great  religious  and  political  parties  arose  in  Palestine.  They  added 
to  the  Sabbath  day  law  many  trifling  and  irritating  restrictions.  No 
Jewish  army  would  attack  on  a  Sabbath  day ;  no  Jewish  army  would 
march  on  that  day;  the  people  were  forbidden  to  bake  or  cook;  to 
build  a  fire  or  to  prepare  food,  etc.,  and  they  could  only'walk  a  certain 
distance  with  a  friend  on  that  day.  Some  of  their  restrictions  were 
rebuked  several  times  by  the  Master  and  at  one  time  he  said:  "The 
Sabbath  was  made  for  man  and  not  man  for  the  Sabbath." 

The  Master  was  crucified  on  a  Friday.  He  was  hurriedly  buried 
before  the  Sabbath  day,  which  commenced  on  Friday  at  six  o'clock. 
His  body  laid  in  the  tomb  until  Sunday  morning,  the  first  day  of  the 
week,  when  he  arose  from  the  dead.  On  that  day  he  was  seen  by  several 
women,  then  by  Peter,  and  then  by  Mary  Magdalene.  He  accom- 
panied two  of  his  friends  to  Emmaus  and  then  appeared  to  his  disciples 
and  their  friends  in  an  upper  room,  and  on  the  following  first  day  of 
the  week  he  again  appeared  to  his  disciples  and  others,  and  from  that 
time  on  the  Christian  church  observed  the  first  day  of  the  week  as 
the  Lord's  day  in  remembrance  of  his  resurrection. 

The  Lord  has  definitely  placed  the  responsibility  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  concerning  the  day  of  rest.  On  the  7th  day  of  August,  1831,  he 
gave  a  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  known  to  us  as  section  59, 
Doctrine  and  Covenants.  The  part  of  the  section  which  I  wish  to  call 
to  your  attention  is  as  follows : 

"And  that  thou  mayest  more  fully  keep  thyself  unspotted  from  the  world, 
thou  shalt  go  to  the  house  of  prayer  and  offer  up  thy  sacraments  upon  my  holy 
day.  For  verily  this  is  a  day  appointed  unto  you  to  rest  from  your  labors,  and 
to  pay  thy  devotions  unto  the  Most  High.  But  remember  that  on  this,  the  Lord's 
day,  thou  shalt  'of  fer  thine  oblations  and  thy  sacraments  unto  the  Most  High, 
confessing  thy  sins  unto  thy  brethren  and  before  the  Lord." 

President  Brigham  Young  called  the  observance  of  the  Lord's  day 
to  the  attention  of  the  Saints  in  his  time,  and  these  instructions  can  be 
found  in  the  Discourses  of  Brigham  Young,  as  follows : 

"All  Latter-day  Saints  should  observe  the  Sabbath  by  resting  from  all  labor, 
except  those  who  must  be-  detained  to  take  care  of  children  or  perform  some 
work  of  mercy.  Now  remember,  those  who  go  skating,  buggy  riding,  or  on 
excursions  on  the  Sabbath  day  are  weak  in  the  faith  and  gradually,  little  by  little, 
the  spirit  of  their  religion  leaks  out  of  their  hearts  and  their  affection.  When 
I  see  a  man  gathering  in  his  crops,  or  cattle,  or  making  repairs  on  the  Lord's 
day,  I  pount  him  weak  in  the  faith.  At  least  he  has  lost  the  spirit  of  his 
religion.  We  should  devote  our  time  as  the  Church  requires  it,  on  the  Lord's 
day,  for  the  express  purpose  of  renewing  our  mental  and  physical  powers  and 
getting  our  spiritual  food." 

The  late  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  was  equally  as  emphatic  on 
this  subject  as  President  Brigham  Young,  and  in  his  writings  contained 
in  Gospel  Doctrine,  he  has  said : 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"Men  are  not  resting  from  their  labors  when  they  plow,  plant,  dig  or  do 
work  of  any  kind.  Men  are  not  resting  when  they  work  around  the  house  all 
day  doing  odd  jobs.  Men  are  not  honoring  the  Lord  when  they  go  to  places  of 
amusement.  Men  are  not  honoring  the  Lord  when  they  loiter  around  ice  cream 
places,  go  to  ball  games  and  witness  these  games.  It  is  a  reflection  on  any 
Latter-day  Saint  community  to  patronize  a  ball  game  on  the  Lord's  day." 

LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  AND  THE  SABBATH 

Not  Latter-day  Saint  can  feel  in  full  fellowship  with  the  Holy 
Spirit  who  uses  the  Lord's  day  for  recreation  and  pleasure,  who  visits 
pleasure  resorts,  picture  shows  and  theatres,  who  goes  to  baseball  or 
football  games,  who  goes  on  picnics,  fishing  or  hunting  trips,  or  on 
railway  excursions  on  the  Lord's  day,  or  who  uses  that  day  in  auto- 
mobile riding  for  pleasure. 

Experience  has  shown  that  those  who  remember  the  Lord's  day 
and  keep  it  holy  are  in  harmony  with  the  spirit  of  the  gospel.  The 
keeping  of  this  law  will  affect  our  'lives  for  good,  and,  if  we 
disobey  it  it  will  affect  our  lives  for  evil.  The  Lord  has  designed 
this  day  so  that  we  may  rest  from  our  labors,  attend  to  our  religious 
duties  in  a  spirit  of  thankfulness  and  appreciation  for  the  gospel,  and 
obtain  spiritual  comfort  and  spiritual  food.  I  am  wondering  if,  in  the 
rush  and  whirl  of  life,  we  are  overlooking  some  of  the  fundamentals 
of  the  gospel.  Are  we  making  this,  day  a  day  of  rest  and  devotion  or 
a  day  of  recreation  and  pleasure?  I  hope  the  Latter-day  Saints  will 
follow  the  word  of  the  Lord  given  to  us  in  these  latter  days  and  that 
we  shall  strictly  observe  the  day  of  rest. 

I  testify  to  you  that  "Mormonism,"  as  it  is  called,  is  true.  That 
it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  to  the  believer.  It  is  a  living 
force  which  will  make  us  better  every  day  we  apply  its  truth  and 
principles,  and  will  take  us  back  to  the  presence  of  our  Father  in  heaven 
from  whence  we  came.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "The  day  is  ended." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  David  R.  Lyon,  of  the 
Ensign  stake. 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  closing  meeting  of  the  98th  semi-annual  conference  of  the 
Church  opened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Sunday,  October  9,  1927,  at  2 
o'clock.    The  attendance  was  very  large. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  announced  that  the  choir  and  congre- 
gation would  sing  the  hymn :   "The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is  burning." 

After  the  fervent  and  earnest  singing  by  the  great  audience,  the 
opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Edward  H.  Anderson. 

The  Hymn,  "I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives,"  was  sung  by  the 
choir,  Jessie  Evans,  soloist. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


137 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

HEARD  BY  RADIO 

We  have  received  word  from  Elder  David  A.  Broadbent  of  the 
Wasatch  stake  presidency,  that  the  Heber  tabernacle  is  filled  with 
Saints  who  are  getting  perfect  reception  of  the  conference  services. 

We  have  a  telegram  to  the  effect  that  there  is  a  large  gathering 
of  listeners  at  Ephraim,  who  wish  to  express  their  appreciation  of  the 
KSL  broadcast  of  the  conference  services. 

It  is  only  fair  to  say  that  the  interruption  that  occurred  during 
the  opening  meeting  of  our  conference,  at  which  time  the  broadcast  of 
baseball  news  came  into  our  meeting,  was  by  reason  of  the  fact  that 
the  KSL  radio  service  is  rented  by  the  hour,  and  our  time  expired  at 
ten  minutes  after  twelve  o'clock.  They,  therefore,  thought  we  had 
adjourned  our  meeting. 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

I  crave  a  double  portion  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  while  I  stand 
before  this  magnificent  audience  of  Latter-day  Saints  this  afternoon. 

THANKS  TO  GOD 

I  thank  my  heavenly  Father  for  all  his  mercies  in  the  past,  and 
above  all  I  thank  him  that  I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives.  I  also  thank 
him,  at  this  time,  for  the  wonderful  care  he  has  had  over  Sister  Smoot. 
Over  seven  months  ago  I  was  directed  by  a  man  of  science,  a  great 
doctor,  that  if  I  intended  that  she  should  be  buried  in  Utah,  I  should 
at  once  arrange  for  the  care  of  her  body  and  make  plans  for  leaving 
Washington  within  forty-eight  hours.  I  have  to  acknowledge,  not  only 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  but  to  all  the  world,  that  it  is  not  science  that 
has  kept  her  alive  so  long,  but  it  has  been  the  prayers  of  God's  people, 
which  have  safeguarded  her  so  far.    God's  will  be  done,  not  mine. 

THE  INFLUENCE  AND  POWER  OF  GOD 

I  have  been  more  than  pleased  at  this  conference.  It  is  so  often 
said  at  the  close  of  conference  that  it  was  the  best  conference  that  was 
ever  held.  I  have  never  before  attended  one  in  all  my  life  where  I 
have  felt  the  influence  and  power  of  Almighty  God  as  I  have  at  this 
conference.  The  Spirit  of  God  has  been  with  us,  and  no  man,  no 
matter  what  his  belief  may  be,  could  stand  before  an  audience  of  this 
character  and  listen  to<  what  has  been  said  and  not  admit  in  his  heart 
that  there  is  something  in  "Mormonism"  which  ino  other  religion  on 
earth  has. 

i 

THE  CATHOLIC  FATHER  MISTAKEN 

On  the  22nd  day  of  September  last  I  was  thinking  of  an  experi- 
ence that  came  to  me  forty-five  years  ago  last  July.  I  was  then  a 
young  man  of  twenty  years  and  was  superintendent  of  the  Provo  Co- 
op.   I  decided  that  I  would  go  to  Leadville  and  Denver,  with  a  view 


138 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  opening  up  a  market  for  the  products  of  the  farm  that  we  handled 
in  Utah  county.  I  made  that  trip  and  was  successful.  On  my  return, 
coming  over  the  Denver  and  Rio  Grande  Railroad,  we  had  scarcely 
left  Denver  until  a  gentleman  approached  me.  He  was  a  Catholic 
father,  a  splendid  type  of  physical  manhood,  a  well  educated  man,  one 
whose  appearance  would  attract  the*  attention  of  people  anywhere. 
I  had  been  conversing  with  one  or  two  men.  As  I  left  them  and  took 
my  seat  he  came  and  sat  by  me.   Said  he : 

"I  understand  that  you  live  in  Utah." 

"I  do." 

"Are  you  a  'Mormon'?" 
"I  am." 

He  then  began  to  discuss  the  question  of  "Mormonism,"  and 
among  other  things  he  said :  "I  tell  you,  young  man,  that  no  matter 
whether  the  Church  has  grown  in  years  past  or  not,  it  will  never  live 
a  hundred  years." 

The  reason  assigned  was  that  it  was  a  fraud,  that  God  did  not 
reveal  himself  to  man  in  these  days;  that  the  testimony  of  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  falsehood  upon  its  face;  and  an  institution  based  upon  a 
falsehood  never  lived  a  hundred  years,  'and  therefore  "Mormonism" 
would  not  live  that  length  of  time.. 

The  thought  came  to  me  as  I  have  looked  over  these  vast  audiences 
gathered  here  in  this  general  conference,  of  what  has  happened  during 
the  last  forty  five  years,  and  O  how  mistaken  that  father  was. 

AN  ANSWER  FROM  THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON 

There  were  a  number  of  things  that  impressed  me  greatly  in 
what  he  said.  I  suppose  many  of  the  people  of  Utah  and  particularly 
my  neighbors  knew  that  I  had  up  to  that  time  not  taken  much  interest 
in  Church  work.  I  was  wrapped  up,  body  and  soul,  in  commercial 
affairs.  I  had  no  testimony  that  this  was  God's  work.  And  so  when 
I  got  home  the  first  thing  I  did  was  to  tell  my  mother  of  this  circum- 
stance. Among  other  things  that  he  called  to  my  attention  was  this, 
that  there  must  be  something  wrong  with  the  Church,  with  the  organi- 
zation, with  the  people,  because  the  whole  world  was  in  opposition  to 
them,  and  therefore  the  Church  could  not  be  true.  Of  course  he  gave 
his  reasons  why  the  great  Catholic  church  was  the  only  church  of  God. 
I  told  my  mother  this,  and  in  her  quiet  way  she  said : 

"I  wish  you  would  read  the  second  chapter  of  II  Nephi,  in  that 
wonderful  book,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  I  think  it  will  answer  the 
statements  made  by  the  father  or  anyone  else  as  to  opposition." 

I  took  occasion  to  read  it,  and  I  want  to  call  your  attention  to  it 
today.  Not  the  whole  of  it,  by  any  manner  of  means.  I  wish  I  had 
the  time  to  do  so,  but  I  am  going  to  content  myself  after  reading  just 
a  few  of  the  statements  regarding  opposition,  by  asking  you  all  to  read 
that  chapter  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  It  is  an  account  of  Lehi  ad- 
dressing his  son  Jacob,  and  in  it  Lehi  says: 

"And  behold,  in  thy  childhood  thou  hast  suffered  afflictions  and  much  sorrow, 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


139 


because  of  the  rudeness  of  thy  brethren.    *    *  * 

"And  he  [speaking  of  God]  shall  consecrate  thine  afflictions  for  thy  gain." 

And  as  to  opposition  Lehi  says,  in  the  eleventh  verse  of  the  chapter : 

"For  it  must  needs  be  that  there  is  an  opposition  in  all  things.  If  not  so, 
my  first-born  in  the  wilderness,  righteousness  could  not  be  brought  to  pass, 
neither  wickedness,  neither  holiness  nor  misery,  neither  good  nor  bad.  Wherefore 
all  things  must  needs  be  a  compound  in  one ;  wherefore,  if  it  should  be  one 
body  it  must  needs  remain  as  dead,  having  no  life,  neither  death,  nor  corruption, 
nor  incorruption,  happiness  nor  misery,  neither  sense  nor  insensibility." 

NEED  OF  OPPOSITION  IN  ALL  THINGS 

Lehi  goes  on  to  explain  why  there  must  be  opposition  in  all  things. 
When  you  stop  to  think  about  it,  it  is  absolutely  as  God's  servant, 
Lehi,  predicted.  If  there  were  no  opposition  to  business  it  would 
run  to  dry  rot.  And,  brethren  and  sisters,  if  there  were  no  opposition 
to  the  Church  of  Christ,  it  never  would  make  the  headway  it  is  making. 
Its  foundations  never  would  be  so  strong  as  they  are  without  the  op- 
position it  has  encountered.  Many  of  the  hardships  and  evils  that 
come  to  us,  come  as  blessings  in  disguise.  People  wonder  why  weeds 
grow  on  the  farm,  why  disease  comes  to  the  body,  why  the  wicked 
among  the  peoples  of  the  world,  why  evil  exists  upon  every  hand? 
Evil  is  a  challenge  to  good.  The  fight  is  between  evil  and  good,  and 
God  intends  to  have  a  people  who  know  the  difference  between  good 
and  evil,  and  follow  in  the  footsteps  of  the  teachings  of  the  Master. 
And  nothing  but  good  ever  was  uttered  by  him  in  mortal  life.  Why 
do  we  have  the  poor  among  us?  Suppose  we  did  not  have  any  poor. 
I  have  always  considered  poverty  a  challenge,  and  it  does  challenge 
our  sympathy  and  generosity,  and  do  you  know  that  that  is  a  wonder- 
ful thing  to  broaden  a  man  or  woman?  And  I  know  of  no  other 
pleasure  in  all  the  world  equal  to  that  which  comes  to  one  whose 
generosity  and  kindness  helps  one  of  God's  children. 

BELIEF  IN  REVELATION 

One  of  the  things  that  the  Catholic  father  complained  most  bit- 
terly about  was  that  we  claim  to  have  had  revelation  in  this  day  direct 
from  God,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  received  revelations  for  the  establish- 
ment of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  That  I 
think,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  pretty  well  found  to  be  one  of  the 
great  criticisms  of  the  Church.  I  know  that  in  my  own  case,  when 
there  was  an  effort  made  to  unseat  me  as  a  Senator  of  the  United 
States,  after  all  the  testimony  had  been  given  and  I  think  most  every- 
one of  my  witnesses  had  testified  to  the  effect  that  revelation  was  given 
to  the  founder  of  the  Church,  and  I  myself  testified  that  I  believed  it 
with  all  my  heart,  Mr.  Taylor,  in  summing  up  the  arguments  of  the  case 
to  present  to  the  Senators  of  the  United  States  with  a  view  to  unseat 
me  as  being  unworthy  of  a  seat  in  that  great  body,  made  this  statement : 

"Several  hundred  thousand  sincere  men  and  women  have  believed  and  now 
believe,  as  they  believe  in  their  own  existence,  that  Joseph  Smith,  Junior,  received 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


revelation  direct  from  God,  and  if  anyone  ever  believed  that,  we  must  believe 
that  Senator  Smoot  believes  it.  Now  a  Senator  of  the  United  States  might 
believe  anything  else  in  the  world  but  that  and  not  be  ineligible  to  a  seat  in  the 
body  to  which  he  belongs.  He  might  believe  in  polygamy;  he  might  believe  that 
murder  was  commendable;  he  might  deny  the  propriety  as  a  rule  of  life  of  all 
the  ten  commandments;  he  might  believe  in  the  sacrifice  of  human  life;  he 
might  believe  in  no  God  or  in  a  thousand  gods ;  ■  he  might  be  Jew  or  Gentile, 
Mohammedan  or  Buddhist,  Atheist,  or  Pantheist ;  he  might  believe  that  the  world 
began  last  year  and  would  end  next  year,  but  to  believe  in  the  kind  of  conviction 
that  Reed  Smoot  possesses,  that  God  speaks  to  him  or  anay  speak  to  him  is  to 
admit  by  the  inevitable  logic  of  his  conviction  that  there  is  a  superior  authority 
with  whom  here  and  now  he  may  converse,  and  whose  command  he  can  no 
more  refuse  to  obey  than  he  can  will  himself  not  to  think." 

My  time  has  expired,  but  I  want  to  tell  you  today  that  I  haven't 
any  more  doubt  in  my  mind  than  that  I  live  that  God  did  reveal  him- 
self to  Joseph  Smith,  that  this  Church  is  founded  upon  the  great 
principle  of  revelation  from  God.  He  is  the  author,  the  one  that  we 
worship,  the  one  into  whose  presence  we  hope  in  time  to  return  and 
give  a  report  of  the  stewardship  that  he  granted  to  us,  such  that  the 
Father  would  say,  "Well  done,  thou  good  and  faithful  servant." 

God  bless  the  people,  God  bless  our  country.  Instill  in  the  hearts 
of  the  American  people  a  greater  love,  if  possible,  in  the  future  than  in 
the  past,  of  the  great  Constitution  of  this  land.  I  feel  in  my  soul  that 
the  time  will  never  come  in  all  the  history  of  the  world,  be  it  short 
or  be  it  long,  that  this  people  will  deny  that  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States  came  from  God  himself  through  men  raised  up  for  the 
purpose  of  establishing  it  and  building  upon  it  the  greatest  nation  on 
earth.    God  be  with  us,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

I  have  been  made  very  happy  while  listening  to  the  remarks  of 
the  brethren  who  have  spoken,  for  the  nature  of  the  testimonies  and 
instruction  has  been  very  timely. 

A  WARNING  VOICE  AGAINST  EVIL 

It  is  pleasing  to  know  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  loyal,  as  a 
people,  to  the  Government,  to  the  Constitution,  and  that  they  observe 
the  law.  Moreover,  it  is  well  to  have  our  attention  called  to  the  duties 
and  responsibilities  that  are  ours  as  members  of  the  Church,  and  to 
have  the  warning  voice  raised,  from  time  to  time,  against  the  evils 
that  prevail  in  the  world  that  we  may  be  prepared  to  resist  them. 

WE  LIVE  IN  PERILOUS  TIMES 

I  take  it  for  granted  that  every  member  of  the  Church  sincerely 
believes  that  we  are  living  in  the  last  days,  and  that  most  of  those 
who  are  not  of  us  who  profess  to  believe  in  the  scriptures  and  in  our 
Redeemer  hold  the  same  view.  This  being  true,  I  think  we  will  have 
to  agree  also  that  we  are  living  in  perilous  times,  for  the  prophets  of 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  141 


old  who  had  their  vision  opened  so  that  they  could  see  our  times  have 
spoken  of  these  conditions. 

PROPHETS  HAVE  FOREWARNED  THE  PEOPLE 

Isaiah,  Peter,  Paul,  and  even  the  Savior  himself,  have  spoken  of 
these  things.  Paul  when  writing  to  Timothy  of  the  last  days  had  this 
to  say: 

"Now  the  Spirit  speaketh  expressly,  that  in  the  latter  times  some  shall  depart 
from  the  faith,  giving  heed  to  seducing  spirits,  and  doctrines  of  devils; 

"Speaking  lies  in  hypocrasy,  having  their  conscience  seared  with  a  hot  iron; 
"Forbidding  to  marry,  and  commanding  to  abstain  from  meats." 
And  again  he  says: 

"This  know  also,  that  in  the  last  days  perilous  times  shall  come. 

"For  men  shall  be  lovers  of  their  own  selves,  covetous,  boasters,  proud, 
blasphemers,  disobedient  to  parents,  unthankful,  unholy. 

"Without  natural  affection,  truce-breakers,  false  accusers,  incontinent,  fierce, 
despisers  of  those  that  are  good, 

"Traitors,  heady,  highminded,  lovers  of  pleasure  more  than  lovers  of  God; 

"Having  a  form  of  Godliness,  but  denying  the  power  thereof." 

It  appears  that  there  is  very  little  lacking,  in  this  prophecy  that 
might  have  been  said  of  the  evils  of  our  times;  and  the  Savior  declared 
that  the  days  before  his  second  coming  were  to  be  like  the  days  before 
the  flood.  The  prophets  who  dwelt  on  this  continent  had  the  same 
knowledge  revealed  to  them  and  have  proclaimed  it  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon:  : 

"But  behold,"  said  Nephi,  "in  the  last  days,  or  in  the  days  of  the  Gentiles — ■ 
'   yeai,  behold  all  the  nations  of  the  Gentiles  and  also  the  Jews,  both  those  who 
shall  come  upon  this  land  and  those  who  shall  be  upon  other  lands,  yea,  even 
upon  all  the  lands  of  the  earth,  behold,  they  will  be  drunken  with  inquity  and 
all  imanner  of  abominations — 

"And  when  that  day  shall  come  they  shall  be  visited  of  the  Lord  of  Hosts, 
with  thunder  and  with  earthquake,  and  with  a  great  noise,  and  with  storm,  and 
with  tempest,  and  with  the  flame  of  devouring  fire." — 2  Nephi  27:1-2. 
Then  he  adds  this : 

"Woe  unto  them  that  turn  aside  the  just  for  a  thing  of  naught  and  revile 
against  that  which  is  good,  and  say  that  it  is  ;of  no  worth!  For  the  day  shall 
come  that  the  Lord  God  will  speedily  visit  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth ;  and  in 
that  day  that  they  are  fully  ripe  in  iniquity  they  shall  perish. 

"But  behold,  if  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  shall  repent  of  their  wickedness 
and  abominations  they  shall  not  be  destroyed,  saith  the  Lord  of  Hosts.    *    *  * 

"For  the  kingdom  of  the  devil  must  shake,  and  they  which  belong  to  it  must 
needs  be  stirred  up  to  repentance,  or  the  devil  will  grasp  them  with  his  ever- 
lasting chains,  and  they  be  stirred  up  to  anger,  and  perish ; 

"For  behold,  at  that  day  shall  he  rage  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men, 
and  stir  them  up  to  anger  against  that  which  is  good. 

"And  others  will  he  pacify,  and  lull  them  away  into  carnal  security,  that 
they  will  say :  All  is  well  in  Zion ;  yea,  Zion  prospereth,  all  is  well — and  thus 
the  devil  cheateth  their  souls,  and  leadeth  them  away  carefully  down  to  hell. 

"And  behold,  others  he  flattereth  away,  and  telleth  them  there  is  no  hell ; 
and  he  saith  unto  them :  I  am  no  devil,  for  there  is  none — and  thus  he  whis- 
pereth  in  their  ears,  until  he  grasps  them  with  his  awful  chains,  from  whence 
there  is  no  deliverance."— 2  Nephi  28:16-22. 


142 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


NEPHI  SPOKE  FOR  THE  BENEFIT  OF  THE  PEOPLE  OF  OUR  DAY 

I  have  read  these  Scriptures  to  show  that  these  ancient  prophets, 
who  saw  our  times,  have  spoken,  not  particularly  for  the  benefit  of 
the  people  of  their  day,  but  for  the  benefit  of  the  people  living  in  the 
days  of  which  these  prophecies  speak.  The  world  now  is  in  just  that 
condition  declared  by  Nephi  and  by  Paul.  The  people  are  denying  the 
Lord  and  his  atonement  and  the  resurrection  of  the  dead,  and  they  are 
declaring  that  there  is  no  personal  devil,  who  is  Lucifer  who  was  cast 
out  of  heaven  for  his  rebellion.  Nor  are  the  Latter-day  Saints  alto- 
gether free  from  these  evils  and  these  false  teachings  that  prevail  so 
generally  in  the  world.  We  must  not  think  that  these  things  do  not 
apply  to  us,  for  unless  we  walk  in  paths  of  righteousness  and  in  har- 
mony with  the  revelations  from  the  Lord,  we  too  will  be  under  con- 
demnation. It  is  in  Zion,  according  to  this  prophecy,  that  people  are 
to  feel  the  "carnal  security,"  that  all  is  well,  and  Nephi  has  spoken  to 
us  words  of  warning : 

"Therefore,  woe  be  unto  him  that  is  at  ease  in  Zion ! 
"Woe  be  unto  him  that  crieth,  All  is  well! 

"Yea,  woe  be  unto  him  that  hearkeneth  unto  the  precepts  of  men,  and 
denieth  the  power  of  God,  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost." 

Nephi  further  predicted  that  in  these  days  there  would  be  churches 
which  are  built  up,  not  unto  the  Lord,  and  "they  shall  contend  one  with 
■another;  and  their  priests  shall  contend  one  with  another,  and  they 
shall  teach  with  their  learning,  and  deny  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  giveth 
utterance. 

"And  they  deny  the  power  of  God,  and  the  Holy  One  of  Israel;  and  they 
say  unto  the  people :  Hearken  unto  us,  and  hear  ye  our  precept ;  for  behold  there 
is  no  God  today,  for  the  Lord  and  the  Redeemer  hath  done  his  work,  and  he 
hath  given  his  power  unto  men; 

"Behold,  hearken  ye  unfo  my  precept;  if  they  shall  say  there  is  a  miracle 
wrought  by  the  hand  of  the  Lord,  believe  it  not;  for  this  day  he  is  not  a  God 
of  miracles ;  he  hath  done  his  work." 

Does  it  not  appear  that  this  prophet  has  truly  depicted  the  con- 
ditions in  the  world  today,  both  in  the  churches  and  generally  among 
mankind  ? 

MODERN  CONDITIONS  MAKE  FOR  UNRIGHTEOUSNESS 

It  seems  to  me  as  I  reflect  upon  these  things  that  it  is  perhaps  a 
little  more  difficult  for  a  man  to  be  righteous  today  than  it  has  been 
in  some  other  periods  of  the  world's  history.  I  think  this  because  of 
modern  conditions  with  all  the  temptations  and  evils  that  now  confront 
us  at  every  turn.  If  this  is  the  case  then  Latter-day  Saints  should  be 
just  a  little  more  prayerful,  a  little  more  diligent,  and  seek  the  Lord 
just  a  little  more  closely,  that  we  might  be  kept  free  from  all  the  evils 
that  now  prevail.  The  fact  that  we  are  baptized  and  have  a  standing 
in  good  fellowship  in  the  Church  will  not  insure  for  us  our  salvation. 
Evils  may  come  upon  us,  for  the  Lord  has  said  by  way  of  warning. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  143 


"Therefore,  let  the  Church  take  heed  and  pray  always,  lest  they  fall 
into  temptation." 

Our  Duties  Pointed  Out 

During  the  meetings  of  this  conference  some  of  our  duties  as 
members  of  the  Church  have  been  pointed  ou{.  It  would  be  impossible 
in  the  limited  time  that  is  ours  to  mention  all  the  duties  and  responsi- 
bilities which  rest  upon  us,  and  the  remarks  we  make  have  to  be  more 
or  less  of  a  general  character. 

Our  attention  has  been  called  very  forcefully  to  the  keeping  of 
the  law  of  tithing,  and  the  observance  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  I 
would  like  to  call  attention  in  a  general  way  to  the  fact  that  we  have 
received  many  commandments,  and  it  is  our  duty  to  keep  them  all. 
I  wonder  if  we  are  all  faithfully  paying  our  tithing  and  observing  the 
Word  of  Wisdom?  I  wonder  if  we  are  praying  in  our  homes,  if  we  are 
teaching  our  children  in  the  spirit  of  prayer  to  approach  our  Father 
in  heaven;  if,  in  the  family  circle,  we  remember  this  obligation  and 
are  faithful  to. this  great  commandment?  For  it  is  a  great  command- 
ment. I  wish  each  would  ask  himself  the  question,  "Am  I  seeking 
the  Lord  in  secret  chambers,  and  thanking  him  for  the  many  blessings 
I  receive  ?"  I  wonder  if  we  faithfully  observe  the  Sabbath  day  to  keep 
it  holy?  There  are  very  few  among  the  people  generally  in  this  land 
who  do,  and  the  Lord  will  not  forget  the  breaking  of  this  law.  I 
wonder  if  we  have  forgotten  the  fast-day  which  has  been  set  apart  to 
be  observed  by  the  members  of  the  Church?  And  if  we  remember  the 
fast  offerings  for  the  poor  ?  There  are  so  many  things  I  cannot  take 
time  to  mention  all. 

We  are  to  be  judged  according  to<  our  works,  and  we  have  before 
us  the  law.  If  we  fail  to  observe  it,  if  we  reject  it. or  prove  ourselves 
unfaithful,  we  shall  not  receive  the  blessings,  for  the  Lord  has  said 
it.  We  have  the  Gospel  as  it  has  been  restored  in  its  fulness  and  if 
we  do  not  observe  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  we  are  without 
excuse,  "For  of  him  unto  whom  much  is  given  much  is  required ;  and 
he  who  sins  against  the  greater  light  shall  receive  the  greater  con- 
demnation." We  should  be  most  diligent  in  our  observance  of  the 
fast  meetings,  the  Sacrament  meetings,  and  our  Priesthood  meetings. 
I  regret  to  say  that  in  many  of  the  wards  of  the  Church  there  is  a 
falling  off  in  the  attendance  at  the  Sacrament  service,  which  is,  in  my 
judgment,  the  greatest  and  most  important  meeting  in  the  Church. 
We  cannot  afford  to  fail  in  this  important  duty  and  in  the  other  im- 
portant duties  which  are  upon  us.  Our  light  is  set  upon  a  hill,  which 
gives  light  to  all  the. world,  and  we  should  let  it  shine  so  that  people 
can  see  our  good  works  and  glorify  our  Father  in  Heaven. 

I  pray  that  all  Latter-day  Saints  will  prove  themselves  to  be 
humble,  faithful  and  willing  to  serve  the  Lord,  keeping  all  his  com- 
mandments as  they  come  to  us  through  those  who  have  the  right  to 
speak.    This  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang:    "O  awake,  my  slumbering  minstrel." 


144 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 

Two  difficulties  confront  the  ordinary  speaker  at  a  general  confer- 
ence of  the  Church.  One  is  to  select  a  theme  suitable  to  the  occasion ; 
the  other  is  to  present  that  theme  in  some  degree  of  completeness  with- 
out overrunning  the  allotted  time. 

I  recognize,  of  course — we  all  do — the  wisdom  and  the  necessity  for 
time  limitations,  where  so  many  speakers  are  to  be  heard  from ;  and  I 
try  to  conform  to  the  regulation.  But  it  is  not  the  easiest  thing  in  the 
world  to  lose  one's  self  in  a  subject  and  keep  an  eye  on  the  clock ;  to  talk 
about  eternity  and  all  the  while  be  thinking  about  time — the  time  to  close. 
"No  man  can  serve  two  masters." 

This  is  my  reason  for  using  notes  on  some  occasions.  I  can  speak 
without  them,  and  generally  do,  but  cannot  condense  my  thoughts  so 
well  when  speaking  impromptu,  as  when  I  have  committed  them,  in  part 
at  least,  to  paper. 

THE  WORTH  OF  KNOWLEDGE 

Knowing  just  what  to  say,  on  any  occasion,  is  very  important. 
Knowing  how  to  say  it,  or  having  the  power  to  say  it  in  a  way  that  ap- 
peals, is  equally  so.  A  machine  in  a  big  plant  broke  down,  and  an  expert 
was  called  in  to  fix  it.  He  gave  two  taps  with  his  hammer,  and  the 
machine  started.  The  bill  was  $250.  The  superintendent,  as  soon  as  he 
could  get  his  breath,  demanded  an  itemized  statement.  It  came,  and  read 
as  follows :  "Tapping  with  hammer,  $1.00 ;  knowing  where  to  tap,  $249." 

It  is  just  so  with  the  speaker.  He  must  know  where  to  tap  and  even 
then  must  leave  it  to  the  Lord  to  do  the  tapping.  Our  Heavenly  Father 
knows  our  needs,  and  he  alone  can  supply  them.  He  knows  where  to 
tap,  and  the  speaker  is  the  hammer  that  he  taps  with.  The  sledge-hammer 
blows  struck  during  this  Conference  are  samples  of  his  handiwork. 
They  ought  to  be  sufficient  to  set  any  machine  going — in  the  right 
direction. 

FIRST  PRINCIPLES 

Daniel  Webster,  in  his  great  reply  to  Senator  Hayne  upon  the  neces- 
sity for  the  preservation  of  the  Union,  counseled  a  return  to  first  prin- 
ciples. Our  own  Brother  Roberts,  equally  eloquent,  gave  similar  advice 
at  one  of  our  recent  general  conferences.  I  find  myself  in  much  the  same 
mood  today.    I  desire  to  speak  upon  the  first  principles  of  the  Gospel. 

One  of  our  Articles  of  Faith  reads  as  follows: 

"We  believe  that  the  first  principles  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  are : 
First,  Faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  Second,  Repentance;  Third,  Baptism  by 
Immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins;  Fourth,  Laying  on  of  Hands  for  the  Gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost." 

I  learned  these  principles  in  Sabbath  school,  when  I  was  a  boy,  and 
they  have  served  me  all  the  days  of  my  life.  I  took  them  with  me  when, 
as  a  youth  of  twenty-one,  I  went  out  into  the  world  to  preach  the  gospel. 
I  found  them  as  effectual  in  combating  error,  as  did  David  the  stone 


I 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY  145 

and  sling  in  his  encounter  with  the  Giant.  I  have  never  met  the  man  or 
woman  who  could  gainsay  them. 

UNPROFITABLE  QUESTIONS 

And  our  missionaries  today  can  say  the  same,  when  they  preach 
these  principles  in  the  power  and  demonstration  of  the  Holy,  Spirit, 
testifying  to  the  Restoration  of  the  Gospel,  and  letting  alone  such  un- 
profitable questions  as,  Who  wrote  the  Book  of  Genesis?  Was  Job  a 
fictitious  or  an  historical  character?  Does  God  save  man  or  does  man 
save  himself? 

This  Church  was  not  established,  nor  are  its  missionaries  sent  forth 
to  quibble  and  contend  over  these  or  any  other  questions.  With  a  world's 
salvation  trembling  in  the  balance,  it  matters  very  little  which  was  first — 
the  chicken  or  the  egg,  or  whether  a  house  burns  up  or  burns  down. 

BRIGHAM  YOUNG'S  COUNSEL 

Fifty  years  ago,  when  I  was  a  young  missionary  in  the  State  of 
Ohio,  I  received  a  letter  from  President  Brigham  Young,  containing 
these  golden  words :  "Never  condescend  to  argue  with  the  wicked.  The 
principles  of  the  gospel  are  too  sacred  to  be  quarreled  over.  Bear  your 
testimony  in  humility,  and  leave  the  result  with  the  Lord." 

That  is  all  we  can  do.  This  is  God's  work,  not  man's,  and  He  is 
doing  it  in  his  own  way,  and  using  men  and  women  as  his  instruments. 
No  man  can  say,  of  any  part  of  the  Lord's  work,  "I  did  it."  No  flesh  can 
glory  in  his  presence.  The  missionary  does  his  whole  duty  when  he 
bears  a  faithful  testimony  by  tongue  or  pen,  by  word  and  deed,  and 
leaves  the  result  with  the  Lord. 

CONTENTION  AN  EVIL 

Contention  is  "of  the  devil,"  the  Lord  says,  and  the  time  is  so  pre- 
cious and  so  short  between  Now  and  the  End,  that  we  need  every  minute 
of  it  to  deliver  our  message,  to  cry  repentance,  and  warn  the  world  of 
divine  judgments  that  will  follow  the  rejection  of  the  gospel. 

WHAT  THE  GOSPEL  IS  AND  WHAT  IT  DOES 

The  Gospel  of  Christ  "is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation."  It  is 
more  than  that — it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  exaltation.  It  redeems, 
saves  and  glorifies  all  "who  yield  obedience  to  its  requirements.  It  is 
the  Pathway  to  Perfection,  and  was  instituted  as  such  by  the  wisdom  of 
the  Gods  before,  this  world  was  formed,  before  man  had  fallen,  before 
he  had  need  of  redemption  and  salvation.  There  is  only  one  gospel, 
but  there  have  been  many  gospel  dispensations,  and  this  is  the  greatest 
and  the  last.  There  never  will  be  another  upon  this  planet.  It  is  the  last 
time  that  God  will  so  speak  to  man.  But  he  will  speak  in  other  ways, 
by  other  tongues,  and  the  world  will  have  to  listen : 


,      OTHER  TESTIMONIES 

"For  after  your  testimony" — the  Lord  says  to  the  Elders  of  Israel— 


146  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

"cometh  the  testimony  of  earthquakes,  that  shall  cause  groanings  in 
the  midst  of  her,  and  men  shall  fall  upon  the  ground,  and  shall  not  be 
able  to  stand. 

"And  also  cometh  the  testimony  of  the  voice  of  thunderings,  and 
the  voice  of  lightnings,  and  the  voice  of  tempests,  and  the  voice  of  the 
waves  of  the  sea,  heaving  themselves  beyond  their  bounds. 

"And  all  things  shall  be  in  commotion;  and  surely,  men's  hearts 
shall  fail  them;  for  fear  shall  come  upon  all  people; 

"And  angels  shall  fly  through  the  midst  of  heaven,  crying  with  a 
loud  voice,  sounding  the  trump  of  God,  saying,  Prepare  ye,  prepare  ye, 
O  inhabitants  of  the  earth ;  for  the  judgment  of  our  God  is  come :  behold, 
and  lo!  the  Brfdegroom  cometh,  go  ye  out  to  meet  him."  (D.  and  C. 
88:89-92.) 

ETERNAL  PRINCIPLES 

The  Gospel's  fundamental  principles  are  eternal.  They  never  were 
created.  They  are  self-existent.  Divine  wisdom,  recognizing  certain 
laws  and  ordinances  as  essential  to  human  uplift  and  advancement, 
placed  them  in  the  gospel  plan  and  made  them  available  and  effectual 
unto  man's  redemption,  salvation  and  eternal  glory. 

And  how  were  they  made  available  and  effectual  to  those  high 
ends?  Here  we  touch  the  question  of  whether  God  saves  man  or  man 
saves  himself. , 

A  SINISTER  SPIRIT 

A  sinister  spirit  is  creeping  over  this  world — a  spirit  of  arrogant 
self-assertion,  a  disposition  to  do  away  with  God,  to  shut  him.  out  from 
his  own  universe,  to  strip  the  Divine  One  of  his  divinity,  deny  his 
miraculous  power,  and  regard  him  as  nothing  more  than  a  superman, 
a  good  and  wise  Teacher  who  points  out  the  Way  in  which  men  should 
walk — and  that  is  about  all.  Even  in  the  pulpit  such  things  are  said  at 
times.  In  current  literature  divinity  is  below  par.  Any  writer  who 
makes  a  sensational  assault  upon  religion,  robbing  Christ  of  his  Christli- 
ness,  finds  a  willing  publisher  and  a  ready  sale.  One  who  stands  up 
stalwartly  for  God  and  Truth — his  manuscript  goes  begging. 

NO  MARKET  VALUE 

Pure  religion  has  no  market  value.  It's  the  humbug  that  prospers. 
Ah  religion  is  looked  upon  by  many  as  old-fashioned  fogyism,  some- 
thing out  of  date,  and  it  is  deemed  progressive  and  even  heroic  to  get 
along  without  it.  Dr.  William  B.  Riley,  in  a  recent  address  in  this  city, 
said :  "The  idea  has  been  put  forth  in  some  of  our  secular  institutions, 
that  a  person  should  make  his  own  moral  decisions,  without  regard  to 
divine  law."  Heaven  forbid  that  such  a  spirit,  or  anything  like  it,  should 
ever  invade  the  Church  of  Christ — the  Church  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  ! 
Says  Riley  again:  "Make  man  believe  that  he  is  responsible  only  to 
himself,  remove  all  belief  of  higher  power,  and  it  is  certain  that  a  state 
of  anarchy  will  prevail." 

Let  me  now  read  to  you  a  very  splendid  poem: 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY  147 

INVICTUS 
By  William  Ernest  Henley 

Out  of  the  night  that  covers  me, 

Black  as  the  pit  from  Pole  to  Pole, 
I  thank  whatever  gods  may  be, 

For  my  unconquerable  soul. 

In  the  fell  clutch  of  circumstance 

I  have  not  winced  nor  cried  aloud, 
Under  the  bludgeonings  of  chance 

My  head  is  bloody,  but  unbowed. 

Beyond  this  place  of  wrath  and  tears 

Looms  but  the  horror  of  the  shade, 
And  yet  the  menace  of  the  years 

Finds  and  shall  find  me  unafraid. 

It  matters  not  how  straight  the  gate, 
How  charged  with  punishments  the  scroll, 

I  am  the  master  of  my  fate, 
I  am  the  captain  of  my  soul. 

We  all  admire  courage,  fortitude,  and  the  power  to  patiently  endure. 
We  recognize  such  traits  as  essential  to  success,  both  in  spiritual  and 
in  temporal  pursuits.  But  these  heroic  qualities,  admirable  though  they 
be,  and  desirable  -withal,  cannot  lessen  one  jot  or  tittle  the  need  for 
a  Savior,  to  do  for  us  what  we  cannot  do  for  ourselves.  In  this  won- 
derfully virile  and  powerful  poem,  there  is  no  recognition  of  any  need 
for  divine  help.  That,  to  me,  is  a  defect.  Of  course,  a  man  must  know 
God  before  he  can  recognize  him,  and  this  poor  man  evidently  did  not 
know  him. 

A  BROKEN  REED 

A  reasonable  amount  of  self-reliance  is  a  good  thing,  is  a  pillar  of 
strength  in  any  human  character.  But  when  a  man  relies  wholly  upon 
himself  and  seeks  no  help  from  the  divine  Helper,  he  is  leaning  upon  a 
broken  reed,  however  mighty  he  may  think  himself. 

David  was  self-reliant  when  he  met  Goliath  of  Gath;  but  it  was 
because  he  knew  God  was  with  him.  "He  will  give  you  into  my  hands," 
said  the  shepherd  boy.  And  it  was  his  simple  faith,  his  sublime  trust, 
his  absolute  confidence  in  the  Almighty,  that  overthrew  the  Giant — not 
merely  a  sling  with  a  stone  in  it. 

"I  am  the  captain  of  my  soul,"  is  true  only  to  a  very  limited  extent. 
Man  is  a  free  agent,  with  a  will  of  his  own,  with  the  power  to  achieve,  to 
succeed  or  fail.  That  much  is  true.  But  there  is  a  Greater  Captain  of 
our  souls,  to  whom  we  all  owe  allegiance,  for  He  redeemed  our  souls 
from  death,  and  they  are  his ;  he  purchased  them  with  a  price.  Self- 
reliance  is  a  good  thing,  if  not  carried  too  far.  But  self-assurance,  self- 
sufficiency,  self-conceit,  is  a  bad  thing.  There  is  no  such  thing  as  abso- 
lute independence.  We  depend  upon  one  another,  and  all  are  dependent 
upon  God. 

FALL  AND  REDEMPTION 

Answering  now  the  question :   How  are  the  principles  of  the  gospel 


148  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


made  available  and  effectual  for  man's  salvation  and  exaltation?  It  is 
through  the  Fall  and  the  Redemption.  "Adam  fell  that  men  might  be" — 
that  a  race  of  spirits  might  tabernacle  in  ithe  flesh,  and  thus  become 
souls,  capable  of  endless  increase,  of  eternal  progression  and  exaltation. 
But  the  if  all  brought  death — eternal  death,  which  had  to  be  overcome 
before  these  spirits,  these  souls,  God's  sons  and  daughters,  could  fulfil 
their  heaven-decreed  destiny  and  go  on  to  perfection. 

Christ  overcame  death — conquered  hell  and  the  grave — died  and 
rose  again  ;  and  because  he  lives  we  shall  live  also.  He  gained  this 
great  victory,  not  by  slaughtering  his  enemies,  but  by  forgiving  them, 
by  allowing  his  own  blood  to  be  shed  for  them  and  for  all,  thus  paying 
a  debt  that  no  one  else  could  pay.  "Greater  love  than  this  hath  no'  man, 
that  he  will  lay  down  his  life  for  his  friends."  But  here  was  One  who 
laid  down  his  life  for  his  enemies  as  well  as  his  friends.  No  mere  man 
could  do  that.  It  required  the  love  and  the  life  of  a  God. 

THE  DIVINE  AGONY 

It  took  a  Being  capable  of  enduring  pangs  that  no  mere  mortal 
could  endure — pangs  of  the  body  and  of  the  spirit,  so  terrible,  so  poig- 
nant, so  far-reaching  and  fathomless  that  the  finite  mind  stands  aghast 
in  contemplation  of  the  infinite  and  awful  mystery;  pangs  that  caused 
him,  "even  God,  the  greatest  of  all,  to  tremble  because  of  pain,  and  to 
bleed  at  every  pore." 

And  he  "suffered  these  things  for  all,  that  they  might  not  suffer, 
if  they  would  repent."  But  if  they  would  not  repent,  then  they  must 
suffer  even  as  did  he.  (D.  and  C.  19:16-18.) 

"For  behold,  he  suffereth  the  pains  of  all  men,  yea,  the  pains  of 
every  living  creature,  both  women  and  children,  who  belong  to  the 
family  of  Adam. 

"And  he  suffereth  this  that  the  resurrection  might  pass  upon  all 
men,  that  all  might  stand  before  him  at  the  great  and  judgment  day. 

"And  he  commandeth  all  men  that  they  must  repent,  and  be  bap- 
tized in  his  name,  having  perfect  faith  in  the  Holy  One  of  Israel, 
or  they  cannot  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

"And  if  they  will  not  repent  and  believe  in  his  name,  and  be  bap- 
tized in  his  name,  and  endure  to  the  end,  they  must  be  damned :  for  the 
Lord  God,  the  Holy  One  of  Israel,  has  spoken  it."  (2  Nephi  9:21-24. 
See  also  D.  and  C.  18:11,  12.) 

Can  anyone  read  that,  and  believe  that  all  Christ  did  was  to  point 
out  the  Way  of  Salvation  and  bid  men  walk  therein  ?  What  about  the 
construction  of  the  way  ?  There  was  no  way  till  he  made  one.  Walking 
in  it,  however  difficult  at  times,  is  a  mere  bagatelle  by  comparison. 

MACHINERY  AND  THE  POWER  ' 

Adam's  fall  placed  man  on  earth  and  made  available  for  him  the 
plan  of  salvation  and  exaltation.  Without  the  fall,  the  spirit  would  have 
no  body,  and  consequently  no  claim  upon  the  resurrection.  And  it 
was  Christ  who  brought  about  the  resurrection.    He  is  its  Author.  It 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


149 


was  his  death,  his  sacrificial  offering,  that  gave  vitality  to  the  gospel 
plan  and  rendered  effectual  man's  faith  and  works  in  his  own  behalf. 
Without  the  Atonement,  to  offset  and  nullify  the  fatal  effects  of  the 
original  transgression,  all  man's  self-help  would  count  for  nothing,  and 
the  very  iGospel  itself  would  be  mere  machinery  without  the  power. 

IN  AND  OUT  OF  THE  PIT 

When  Adam  fell,  it  was  as  if  the  human  race  had  fallen  into  a  pit, 
from  which  they  were  powerless,  by  any  act  of  their  own,  to  emerge ; 
having  no  means  whereby  to  climb  up  and  out,  and  not  even  knowing 
how  to  climb.  But  a  Friend,  all-wise  and  all-powerful,  comes  to  the 
mouth  of  the  pit,  compassionates  its  wretched  inmates,  and  proposes 
to  rescue  them  from  their  unhappy  situation.  He  makes  of  his  own  life 
a  ladder;  lets  it  down  into  the  pit  and  says:  "Now  climb!"  They  who 
climb,  get  out  of  the  pit.  They  who  refuse  to  climb,  remain  in  the  pit — 
and  who  is  to  blame  but  themselves? 

The  Crucifixion  on  Calvary,  the  self-immolation  of  a  God,  is  the 
Rock  upon  which  the  gospel  rests — the  Everlasting  Gospel,  the  ladder 
unto  life  eternal. 

"Faith  without  works  is  dead."  We  work  out  our  salvation.  There 
is  no  question  about  that.  But  we  work  it  out  through  Jesus  Christ,  and 
not  independently  of  Him.  We  do  not  save  ourselves.  We  but  avail 
ourselves  of  the  means  of  salvation  provided  by  our  Lord  and  Savior, 
the  God  who  died  that  man  might  live. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  the  General  Authorities  and  Officers  and  Auxiliary 
Heads  of  the  Church,  who  were  voted  upon  and  sustained  by  unanimous 
vote  of  the  congregation,  as  follows : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthony  W.  Ivins,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Charles  W.  Nibley,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Reed  Smoot  James  E.  Talmage 

George  Albert  Smith  Stephen  L.  Richards 

George  F.  Richards  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

David  O.  McKay  John  A.  Widtsoe 

PRESIDING  PATRIARCH 

Hyrum  G.  Smith 


150 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and 
the  Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 


FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 


Brigham  H.  Roberts 

Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Charles  H.  Hart 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Levi  Edgar  Young 

Joseph  W.  McMurrin  Rey  L.  Pratt. 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  O.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

TRUSTEE  IN  TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee  in  Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants:  Andrew 
Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A.  William  Lund,  Junius  F.  Wells. 

CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Anthony  W.  Ivins  David  O.  McKay 

Charles  W.  Nibley  Stephen  L.  Richards 

Willard  Young  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Rudger  Clawson  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

SUPERINTENDENT  OF  CHURCH  SCHOOLS 

Adam  S.  Bennion 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Henry  H.  Rolapp  John  C.  Cutler 

Peter  G.  Johnston 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor  B.  Cecil  Gates,  Asst.  Conductor 

George  C.  Smith,  Secretary 

ORGANISTS 

Edward  P.  Kimball  Alexander  Schreiner 

Tracy  Y.  Cannon  Frank  W.  Asper 

CLERK  OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Edward  H.  Anderson 


/ 


A UX1LLIARY  OFFICERS  SUSTAINED 


NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Clarissa  S.  Williams,  President 
Jennie  B.  Knight,  First  Counselor 
Louise  Y.  Robison,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

David  O.  McKay,  General  Superintendent 
Stephen  L.  Richards,  1st  Asst.  Gen'l  Supt. 
George  D.  Pyper,  2nd  Asst.  Gen'l  Supt. 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Albert  Smith,  General  Superintendent 
Richard  R.  Lyman,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  LADIES'-  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Martha  H.  Tingey,  President 
Ruth  May  Fox,  First  Counselor 
Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  President 
Sadie  G.  Pack,  First  Counselor 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

ELDER  DATUS  E.  HAMMOND 

President  of  the  Pioneer  Stake 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  have  enjoyed  the  privileges  and  the 
blessings  of  this  conference,  and  I  feel  perhaps  more  than  at  any  other 
time  in  my  life  that  I  have  appreciated  my  membership  in  the  Church, 
the  blessings  that  come  through  it,  and  the  wonderful  associations  that 
come  with  this  privilege.  My  testimony  has  been  increased,  my  desire 
to  labor  and  do  good  have  increased,  and  I  have  prayed  that  my 
heavenly  Father  would  give  me  strength  to  be  able  to  build  up  myself 
and  to  carry  into  my  life  some  of  the  resolutions  that  I  have  made  as 
a  result  of  the  inspiration  of  this  conference.'  I  am  very  much  con- 
cerned and  interested  in  the  welfare  of  the  young  people  of  this  Church. 
I  feel  that  our  greatest  strength  should  be  given  more  particularly  to 
them.  I  feel  that  our  greatest  concern  is  with  them.  Those  who 
have  grown  old  in  years  and  in  service,  and  have  a  testimony  of  the 
divinity  of  thfs  work,  can't  be  changed  very  much ;  and,  while  we  must 
labor  with  them,  we  are  not  nearly  so  much  concerned  as  with  the 


152  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

youth  of  Israel.  Our  young  people  in  our  auxiliary  organizations,  the 
youth  of  the  Church  in  our  Lesser  priesthood  work,  gives  our  greatest 
anxiety.  I  have  been  grateful  indeed  that  there  has  come  such  activity 
and  such  a  program  and  such  organization  in  the  Lesser  priesthood  work 
to  more  carefully  direct  and  teach  and  inspire  the  young  men  of  the 
Church.  As  one  associated  in  this  work  with  the  young  people,  and 
connected  with  the  Mutual  Improvement  organizations,  I  have  been 
greatly  interested  in  the  work  for  young  boys.  I  have  been  happy  in- 
deed that  all  of  my  time  for  a  number  of  years  past  has  been  spent  with 
them,  with  the  Boy  Scouts  of  America. 

May  the  Lord  bless  our  young  people.  May  all  of  us,  who  are 
responsible  for  their  welfare,  in  all  our  organizations  and  priesthood 
quorums,  give  them  all  we  have  to  direct  their  work,  their  thought  and 
their  actions.  May  our  greatest  desire  and  ambition  be  to  instil  in 
their  hearts  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are 
engaged,  and  if  they  enjoy  this  testimony,  we  may  feel  assured  as  to 
their  welfare  and  the  outcome  of  their  lives.  May  we  thus  be  con- 
cerned, and  have  as  an  objective  in  every  contact,  in  every  activity 
and  program  the  putting  into  the  hearts  of  our  young  people  an  ap- 
preciation and  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  work,  I  sincerely 
pray,  through  Jesus  Christ,  Amen.  , 

ELDER  MILTON  H.  WELLING 

President  of  the  Bear  River  Stake 

I  have  attended  every  one  of  the  sessions  of  this  conference.  The 
conference  began  with  the  admonition  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church, 
and  those  who  followed  in  the  early  meetings,  with  warnings  to  the 
people  of  the  Church  against  a  spirit  of  lawlessness  that  seems  to  be 
abroad  in  the  land  today.  I  do  not  feel  that  it  is  my  responsibility  or 
my  business  to  stand  as  a  watchman  upon  the  tower,  so  far  as  giving 
general  direction  to  the  thought  and  activity  of  the  Church  is  con- 
cerned. When  those  warnings  were  given  on  Friday  morning  and 
Friday  afternoon  I  thought  of  myself  as  being  among  the  great  multi- 
tude of  people  in  this  Church,  and  in  the  world,  who  were  being  warned, 
and  as  I  thought  of  that  I  reflected  upon  the  things  that  had  occurred 
in  my  life  which  were  useful  to  me,  a  help  to  me  in  receiving  the  warn- 
ings of  my  brethren  who  had  addressed  the  conference.  I  thought  of 
the  time  when,  as  a  boy,  I  was  taught  to  repeat  the  Sermon  on  the 
Mount,  in  connection  with  one  of  my  brothers  who  is  down  here  now 
somewhere  among  the  bishops  of  this  Church.  We  were  taken  into 
the  meeting  house  and  stood  up  on  a  bench.  He  would  recite  one  verse 
and  I  would  recite  the  next  until  we  had  finished  it.  We  received 
from  our  father  twenty-five  cents  between  us,  as  I  remember  it,  for 
learning  Christ's  Sermon  on  the  Mount.  I  don't  believe  that  any 
other  money  that  I  ever  earned  in  the  world  was  more  useful  to  me 
than  that. 

There  is  one  verse  in  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount  which  was  always 


ELDER  MILTON  H.  WELLING 


153 


useful  to  me.  It  is  found  near  the  end  of  the  6th  chapter  of  St.  Mat- 
thew. In  that  verse  the  Savior  of  the  world  spoke  of  the  fact  that  we 
were  to  seek  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness  and  all 
else  would  be  added  unto  us.  I  want  to  testify,  in  the  moments  that 
I  occupy  this  afternoon,  that  every  good  thing  that  has  come  into  my 
life  has  come  through  following  the  admonition  and  the  advice  of  the 
servants  of  God,  and  through  seeking  to  live  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
I  have  been  inspired  by  the  teachings  of  this  conference,  and  my  one 
hope  is  that  I  can  go  back  home  to  my  own  people,  hundreds  of  whom 
are  not  here  this  afternoon,  but  who  are  listening  in  to  these  services, 
and  bear  testimony  to  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  God  which  has 
directed  his  servants  in  this  conference,  and  which  is  directing  the 
Church  of  Christ.  I  know  that  the  gospel  of  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world  is  true,'  and  I  pray  God  the  eternal  Father  that  that  testimony, 
and  a- disposition  to  bear  it  to  the  world,  will  remain  with  me  forever, 
in  the*  name  of  Jesus  .Christ,  Amen. 


ELDER  GEORGE  H.  ROMNEY 

President  of  the  Fremont  Stake 

I  am  deeply  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Lord  has 
so  blessed  me  in  this  life  that  I  am  counted  worthy  to  stand  in  this  pul- 
pit and  speak  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  general  conference,  but  I  am 
more  grateful  that  he  has  blessed  me  with  a  testimony  of  the  truthful- 
ness of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  has  been  restored  to  us  in 
these  days,  through  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  and  those  who  have 
followed  him.  I  feel  particularly  grateful  that  my  fathers  heard  the 
sound  of  the  gospel  and  were  thrilled  by  it,  inspired  by  it,  to  come 
to  Zion.  I  am  glad  for  the  privilege  of  being  recognized  as  worthy 
of  representing  our  people  in  Idaho.  I  shall  be  very  glad  to  carry 
back  to  them,  if  the  Lord  will  give  me  his  Spirit,  the  messages  of  this 
conference.  I  have  been  thrilled  by  the  inspiration  that  has  come  to 
us.  I  remarked,  at  the  close  of  the  first  session  of  this  conference,  and 
the  instructions  of  the  brethren  in  regard  to  keeping  sacred  the  laws 
of  the  land  and  of  being  true  and  faithful  and  full  of  integrity,  that 
the  statements  made  impressed  me  very  much,  and  I  believe  that  the 
instruction  is  needed  to  be  given  to  the  people  in  Idaho,  the  Latter-day 
Saints  who  live  there  as  much  as  it  is  to  the  people  throughout  all  the 
world.  I  believe  that  our  brethren  are  inspired.  One  of  the  problems 
of  my.  life  has  been  to  understand  how  it  is  that  the  Lord  can  prompt 
the  thinking  of  men  and  inspire  them  so  that  they  can  say  his  mind 
and  will,  so  that  they  can  give  his  words  instead  of  giving  the  product 
of  their  own  thinking.  It  became  a  question  at  one  time  in  my  life 
how  to  exercise  faith,  what  attitude  to  take.  What  is  the  proper 
attitude  that  a  person  must  be  in,  in  order  that  he  can  be  inspired,  and 
that  he  can  hear  the  voice  of  the  Lord  and  speak  his  words  to  the 
people? 


154 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  realized,  as  a  boy,  that  it  was  necessary  for  one  to  receive  some- 
thing by  direct  contact ;  that  is,  for  his  mind  to  be  guided  in  such  a 
way  that  he  was  not  speaking  of  himself.  I  afterwards  learned  through 
some  of  the  experiences  which  I  had  that  if  a  person  will  have  perfect 
faith  and  trust  and  confidence  in  the  Lord,  that  if  he  will  believe  with 
his  whole  heart  that  the  Lord  will  guide  and  direct  him  in  what  he 
says,  he  is  bound  to  go  forth  and  do  the  best  he  can,  and  the  Lord 
will  see  that  he  makes  no  mistake  in  judgment  when  he  is  acting  in 
the  performance  of  the  duties  of  his  calling.  This  is  my  faith  and 
my  confidence  in  the  Lord,  that  he  will  guide  and  direct.  I  do  not 
believe  that  the  judgment  of  man  or  the  wisdom  of  man  is  sufficient 
to  perform  the  duties  of  the  priesthood  in  this  Church.  I  believe  that 
it  is  not  possible  for  men  to  know  what  is  most  needful  for  the  people ; 
but  I  believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  if  in  humble  prayer  and 
thankfulness  they  approach  the  Lord,  that  he  will  guide  them.  I  have 
perfect  confidence  that  that  has  been  the  case  in  this  conference.  May 
the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  accept  it  in  that  spirit,  is  my  prayer, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

CLOSING  THOUGHTS 

I  rejoice  in  the  very  splendid  testimonies  that  we  have  heard 
during  this  conference,  and  in  the  advancement  of  the  work  of  the 
Lord.  I  rejoice,  as  I  look  into  the  faces  of  this  body  of  men  who  are 
here  before  me,  the  presidencies  of  stakes,  the  bishops  of  wards,  the 
men  who  have  dedicated  their  lives  to  God,  all  that  they  have,  for  the 
advancement  of  his  kingdom ;  men  who  are  seeking  first  the  Kingdom 
of  God.  I  rejoice  as  I  look  at  these  sisters,  on  my  left,  who  are  as 
devoted  as  mortals  can  be,  for  the  advancement  of  this  work.  When 
I  think  of  our  auxiliary  organizations  and  the  integrity  and  devotion 
of  the  men  and  women  who  preside  over  them,  my  heart  goes  out  in 
gratitude  and  thanksgiving  to  God  for  such  men  and  such  women. 

BLESSINGS  UPON  THE  PEOPLE 

I  pray  God's  choicest  blessings  to  attend  each  and  all  of  you, 
that  every  blessing  which  your  hearts  can  desire  may  be  yours.  I  pray 
for  all  Zion,  for  God's  people  in  every  part  of  the  world,  at  home  and 
abroad,  for  every  soul  that  is  laboring  for  the  salvation  of  the  souls  of 
men  and  women.  I  beseech  God  to'  give  to  each  and  all  of  us  who 
have  partaken  of  the  inspiration  of  this  conference  his  Spirit,  that  we 
may  be-  representatives  of  him,  to  labor  particularly  among  the  youth 
of  Zion,  that  they  may  not  get  into  that  broad  way  that  leads  to  de- 
struction, but  may  the  Lord  help  you  and  me  and  every  soul  having  a 
testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  to  so 
order  our  lives  that  we  can  bring  the  wayward  back  into  that  straight 
and  narrow  path  that  will  lead  them  back  into  the  presence  of  God 
and  our  Redeemer.  I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  inspiration  of  his  Spirit 
during  this  conference,  and  I  leave  my  blessing  upon  all  who  are  here 


/ 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  155 

assembled,  all  who  are  listening  in,  and  upon  the  honest  the  world  over. 
May  God  help  the  Saints  to  be  in  very  deed  a  shining  light  to  the 
world,  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our 
Redeemer,  Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "Worthy  the  lamb." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  President  Anthony  W.  Ivins. 
The  conference  adjourned  to  meet  again  in  six  months. 


Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing,  assisted  'by 
Brigham  Cecil  Gates.  Accompaniments  and  interludes  were  played  on 
the  great  organ  by  Edward  P.  Kimball,  Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Frank  W. 
Asper  and  Alexander  Schreiner. 

Stenographic  notes  were  taken  in  the  Tabernacle  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrdm  and  Joseph  Anderson,  and  in  the  Assembly  Hall  by  Fred- 
erick G.  Barker. 

Edward  H.  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


\ 


INDEX 


Authorities  Present   1 

Authorities  Presentation  of  149 

Allred,  Elder  John  G   37 

Assembly  Hall,  Morning  Meeting  104 

Assembly  Hall,  Afternoon  Meeting  ...122 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0   32 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J   63 


Threatening  Dangers  Foreseen,  63 — The  Gospel,  a  Key  to  the 
Solution  of  all  Problems,  64 — Dangers  Ahead,  64— Establishing  the 
Work  that  shall  not  Fail,  65 — Every  Individual  to  be  Tried,  65 — 
How  to  Gain  Strength  to  Resist,  65 — A  Warning  of  Danger,  66 — ■ 
Solving  the  conflict  between  Capital  and  Labor,  66 — Government's 
Strength  Lies  in  the  People's  Observance  of  Law,  66 — Civilization 
Rests  upon  Self-control  of  people,  67 — Dangers  that  Threaten  our 
Civilization,  67 — Kind  Words  for  the  Latter-day  Saints,  68 — Eternity 
of  the  Family  Relationship,  69 — The  Kernels  of  Life  in  Gospel 
Teachings,  69 — We  are  the  Children  of  Joseph,  69 — We  should 
therefore  Rise  to  the  Lord's  Expectations,  70. 


Browning,  Elder  George  E   82 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q   15 

Callis,  Elder  Chas.  A   30 

Clawson,  President  Rudger   101 

A  Large  Priesthood  Meeting,  101 — The  Word  of  the  Lord  to  the 
Apostles  and  Seventy,  102 — The  Labors  of  these  Councils,  102 — 
Testimony,  103. 

Clerk  of  Conference   155 

Daynes,  Elder  Joseph  J  110 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 

Visits  to  Stakes  and  Wards  and  Missions,  2 — Stake  Presidents 
Appointed,  2 — Mission  Presidents  Released,  2 — New  Wards  Organ- 
ized, 3 — New  Stakes  Organized,  3 — Bishops  who  have  Died,  3 — 
Number  of  Stakes,  3 — Statement  by  the  U.  S.  Attorney  General, 
3 — On  Observance  of  Law,  3 — The  Doctrine  and  Covenants  on  the 
Subject  4 — Loyalty  to  the  Constitution,  5 — Word  of  Wisdom,  6 — 
A  Call  for  Help  to  do  Right,  .6.  ' 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   24 

Elder  James  E.  Talmage  Released,  Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe  Succeeds 
as  President  European  Mission. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   28 

Introducing  Mission  Presidents. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  '.   61 

Introducing  General  Charles  P.  Summerall. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   62 


158  '   GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

i 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   80 

Introducing  Stake  Presidents. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  137 

Heard  by  Radio,  137. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  149 

General  Authorities    Presented,  149 — General  Officers  Presented, 
150 — Auxiliary  Officers  Presented,  151. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  154 

Closing  Thoughts,  154 — Blessings  upon  the  People,  154. 

Gardner,  Elder  Clarence    81 

Gardner,  Elder  Henry  A  113 

Hart,  Elder  Charles  H   70 

Hinckley,  Elder  Bryant  S  104 

Hammond,  Elder  Datus  E  151 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W   6 


Uphold  and  Sustain  the  Civil  Law,  6 — We  Occupy  Similar  Position 
to  Israel  of  Old,  7 — A  Government  Designed  for  all  Mankind,  7 — ■ 
Civil  and  Religious  Laws  are  Separate,  7 — Gladstone  on  the  Consti- 
tution of  the  United  States,  8 — The  Need  of  Emphasizing  Law  Ob- 
servance, 8 — Officials  Beset  with  Vexatious  Law  Suits,  9 — Calling 
of  the  Church  to  Uphold  Right  and  Oppose  Crime,  9 — Destiny  of 
Nations  Foretold,  9 —  An  Appeal  to  Citizens  to  Uphold  the  Law, 
9 — Nation's  Salvation  Rests  with  its  Citizens,  10 — Teach  and  Practice 
Purity  of  Life,  10 — Progress  of  the  Church — What  it  Stands  for, 


11. 

Knight,  Elder  John  M   36 

Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden  . . . '.   50 

Little,  Elder  George  A   83 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   95 


We  Know  no  Party,  95 — The  Book  of  Mormon,  96 — The  Three  Wit- 
nesses, 96 — They  were  not  Deceived,  96 — Eight  more  Witnesses, 
97 — "We  have  Seen  and  Hefted,"  97 — Testimony  of  the  Spirit,  97 
— Teachings  of  Me  Book,  A  Perverse  Generation,  97 — Cycles  of 
History,  98 — How  to  Build  Men,  98 — A  Call  From  Lincoln,  98—  Iniq- 
uity Brings  Ruin,  98 — Prohibition  and  Prosperity,  99 — How  Stands 
the  Law,  99 — Lawlessness  and  Disrespect  for  Law,  99 — God  Give  us 
Men,  100— The  Day  of  Efficiency,  100— A  Perilous  Time,  100— Ap- 
peal to  Citizens,  100 — The  Hour  Has  Come,  100 — The  Price  of 
Liberty,  101. 

McKay,  Elder  David  0   11 

The  Mission  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  11 — The  Most  Beautiful 
Picture,  12 — The  Responsibility  of  Parenthood,  12 — The  Value  of 
Integrity,  12 — Mr.  Babson's  Comment,  13 — The  Application,  13 — 
Latter-day  Saints  Must  Uphold  the  Law,  14 — Translate  our  Religion 
into  Perfect  Social  Conditions,  14. 


McMurrin,  Elder  Joseph  W   58 

Maycock,  Elder  George  R  107 

Meeks,  Elder  Heber  J  132 

Music  Directors  155 


INDEX 


159 


Nibley,  President  Charles  W   86 

Progress  of  the  Work  of  the  Lord,  86 — We  are  all  Missionaries, 
86 — Building  Meeting  Houses,  87 — Room  for  Improvement  in  Pay- 
ment of  Tithing,  87 — The  Lord's  Requirement,  88 — The  Savior's 
View  on  Tithing,  89- — Have  Faith  to  Prove  the  Lord,  89 — Sanctify 
the  Land  of  Zion — Keep  the  Commandments,  90 — How  the  Tithing 
is  Expended,  90 — Prove  the  Lord  in  the  Proper  Spirit,  90. 

Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L   29 

Palmer,  Elder  William  R  '  127 

Roberts,  Elder  B.  H   19 

Rolapp,  Elder  Henry  H   40 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   91 

Message  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  91 — Sent  by  Way  of  Greeting, 
91 — Spirit  and  Body  Closely  Related,  92 — Teach  Purity  and  Cleanli- 
ness of  Life,  92. 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   93 

Salvation  an  Important  Question,  93 — Why  so  Many  Creeds?  93 — 
Repentance  Necessary,  94 — Our  Mission  to  Make  Plain  the  Way  of 
Salvation,  94 — Testimony,  95.  • 

Romney,  Elder  George  H  153 

Sloan,  Elder  Wm.  R   43 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert   46 

The  Joy  of  the  Work,  46 — Seek  First  the  Kingdom  of  God,  47 — 
Obedience  and  the  Spirit  of  Unselfish  Service  Needed,  47 — Sacrifice 
and  Labors  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  47 — The  Gospel  the  Power 
of  God  Unto  Salvation,  48 — The  Cause  of  Happiness,  48 — The 
Gospel  Mission  Proclaimed  in  Love,  49- — Testimony  and  Gratitude, 
49. 

Summerall,  General  Charles  F   62 

Smith,  Elder  Hyrum  G   78 

Smith,  Elder  David  A   117 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed   137 

Thanks  to  God,  137 — The  Influence  and  Power  of  God,  137 — The 
Catholic  Father  Mistaken,  137 — An  Answer  From  The  Book  of 
Mormon,  138 — Need  of  Opposition  in  all  Things,  ,139 — Belief  in 
Revelation,  139. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  140 

A  Warning  Voice  Against  Evil,  140 — We  Live  in  Perilous  Times, 
140 — Prophets  have  Forewarned  the  People,  141 — Nephi  Spoke  for 
the  Benefit  of  the  People  of  Our  Day,  142 — Modern  Conditions 
Make  for  Unrighteousness,  142 — Our  Duties  Pointed  Out,  143. 

Stenographers  155 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H   34 

Taylor,  Elder  Lee  R  123 

Udall,  Elder  Levi  S   82 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A   24 

Our  Obligation  to  Preach  the  Gospel,  24 — God  Overrules  All  Things 
for  His  Purposes,  25 — The  Spirit  of  God  the  Strength  of  Zion,  25 


160 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


— Obedience  to  the  Gospel  Will  Solve  All  Difficulties,  26 — Internal 
Evidence  of  the  Truth  of  "Mormonism"  Most  Convincing,  26 — 
Eternal  Value  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  27 — Keys  to  Solve  Our 
Present  Problems,  27 — Testimony,  28. 


Law  of  (Moses,  134 — Latter-day  Saints  and  the  Sabbath,  136. 


The  Worth  of  Knowledge,  144 — First  Principles,  144 — Unprofitable 
Questions,  145 — Brigham  Young's  Counsel,  145 — Contention  an  Evil, 
145 — 'What  the  Gospel  is  and  What  it  Does,  145 — Other  Testimonies, 
145 — Eternal  Principles,  146 — A  Sinister  Spirit,  146 — No  Market 
Value,  146 — "Invictus,"  147— A  Broken  Reed,  147 — Fall  and  Re- 
demption, 147 — The  Divine  Agony,  148 — Machinery  and  the  Power, 
148— In  and  Out  of  the  Pit,  149: 


Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S, 
White,  Elder  John  H, 
Wells,  Elder  John  . . . 


55 
125 
133 


Whitney,  Elder  Orson  F. 


144 


Welling,  Elder  Milton  H. 
Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar 


152 
74 


Can  you  answer  all  of  the  questions  that  are  put  to  you  about 
the  Church? 

THE  OFFICIAL 

History  of  the  Church 

Will  answer  many  of  these  questions  for  you. 

IN  SIX  LARGE  VOLUMES 

Compiled  by  the  Church  Historians  and  published  by  the  Church. 
Completing  the  First  Period. 

"The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  with  introduction  and 
notes  by  B.  H.  Roberts. 

Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Quorum  and  Private  Library 
should  have  a  set. 

Cloth— Embossed,  per  vol  $2.50  Postpaid 

Half  Morocco— Gilt  Top,  per  vol   3.S0  " 

Full  Morocco — Full  Gilt  Edge,  per  vol   6.00  " 

The  above  work  is  suggested  as  reference  in  connection  with  the 
study  of  Church  History  in  all  of  the  activities  of  the  Church. 

iiiiiiiiillillliiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiHiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiii  uiuiiMimimiiiimiiiimimi 

For  the  reader  who  does  not  want  this  exhaustive  history,  we  rec- 
ommend the  one  volume  book  entitled 

Essentials  in  Church  History 

BY  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

"As  the  title  of  the  book  implies,  the  vital  and  essential  points  of 
history  and  doctrine  have  been  selected,  and  as  far  as  possible  arranged 
in  chronological  order." 

PRICE,  CLOTH  BINDING— $1.75 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  P.  O.  BOX  1793 


WHENCE  THIS  GOSPEL  WE  TEACH? 

Read: 


"Restoration  of  the  Gospel" 

BY  OSBORNE  J.  P.  WIDTSOE 

"This  book  prepared  by  Elder  Osborne  J.  P.  Widtsoe,  dealing  with 
the  important  subject  of  the  Restoration  of  the  everlasting  Gospel, 
should  be  read  and  its  contents  carefully  considered  by  those  who  are 
seeking  after  truth."  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr. 

PRICE  $1.00  POSTPAID 


JUST  OFF  THE  PRESS! 

A  timely  book  by  a  competent  writer  in  commemoration  of  the  One 
Hundredth  Year  since  the  Angel  Moroni  delivered  the  plates  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 

the  DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY  offers  the  First  Edition  of 

AN 

INTRODUCTION 

to  the  Study  of  the 

BOOK  OF  MORMON 

BY  J.  M.  SJODAHL 

This  book  is  something  new.    Is  highly  recommended 
Many  unanswerable  arguments  for  the 
Divinity  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 
Many  splendid  illustrations  by  courtesy  of  the  National  Geographic 
Yale  Expedition  to  Peru,  Etc. 

INSTRUCTIVE  SCIENTIFIC  NEW 

Price  $3.50  Over  500  Pages 


ARTICLES  OF  FAITH 

BY  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

A  consideration  of  the  principal  doctrines  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

This  book  will  be  helpful  to  all  who  desire  a  clear  and  concrete 
exposition  of  the  beliefs  and  attitudes  of  the  "Mormons." 

PRICE  $1.00 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  P.  O.  BOX  1793 


