 ^ 

Ninety-Second 
ANNUAL  GONFERENGE 

of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Ghrist 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly  Hall 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

April  6,  7  and  9,  1922 


With  a  Full  "Report  of 
all  the  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Ghrist  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


HISTORY  of 
the  CHURCH 


Compiled  by  the    Church  Historians 
and  published  by  the  Church. 


IN  SIX  LARGE  VOLUMES 


"The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  with 
introduction  and  notes  by  B.  H.  Roberts. 

A  remarkably  low  price  has  been  placed  on  the  His- 
tory by  the  First  Presidency  to  secure  the  widest  pos- 
sible circulation. 

Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Quorum  and 
Private  Library  should  have  a  set. 

Cloth — Embossed,  per  vol.  $1.50  postpaid 


Half  Morocco— Gilt  Top,  per  vol.  2.50  " 

Half  Calf— Gilt  Top,  per  vol         2.50  " 

Full  Morocco— Full  Gilt  Edge,  vol.  4.00  " 

Th  e  above  work  is  suggested  as  reference  in  con- 
nection with  the  study  of  "Essentials  in  Church  His- 
tory. 

SEND  FOR  OUR  NEW  CATALOG  FREE 


Completing  the  First  Period. 


44  E.  SOUTH  TEMPLE  ST. 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


Ninety-Second  Annual  Conference 

of  the 

Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 

FIRST  DAY 

The  92nd  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  at 
10  a.  m.,  Thursday,  April  6,  1922. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  and  announced  the  opening  of 
the  Conference. 

AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Charles  W.  Penrose,  and 
Anthony  W.  Ivins. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles :  Rudger  Clawson,* 
George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,*  David  O.  McKay,  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Talmage,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R. 
Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  and  John  A.  Widtsoe. 

Presiding  Patriarch :  Hyrum  G.  Smith. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy :  Seymour  B.  Young,  B.  H.  Rob- 
erts,t  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  Charles  H.  Hart.t 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  Charles  W.  Nibley,  David  A.  Smith, 
and  John  Wells. 

Of  the  Church  Historians:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Church  His- 
torian; Andrew  Jenson,  A.  William  Lund,  B.  H.  Roberts,  and  Junius 
F.  Wells,  Assistant  Historians. 

There  were  many  presidents  of  stakes  and  their  counselors,  pa- 
triarchs, bishops  of  wards  and  their  counselors,  and  numerous  other 
prominent  officers,  men  and  women,  representing  various  quorums 
of  the  Priesthood  and  auxiliary  organizations  of  the  Church. 

The  following  mission  presidents  were  in  attendance :  George 
W.  McCune,  Eastern  States ;  Winslow  Farr  Smith,  Northern  States ; 
Samuel  O.  Bennion,  Central  States ;  Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern  States ; 


*Reed  Smoot  was  absent  in  Washington  and  Orson  F.  Whitney  presid- 
ing over  the  British  mission. 

f  J.  Golden  Kimball  was  absent  in  California  owing  to  sickness ;  and 
Levi  Edgar  Young  owing  to  his  work  at  the  U.  of  U.  Elder  Young  was  pres- 
ent at  subsequent  meetings. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


John  M.  Knight,  Western  States,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  California; 
Heber  C.  Iverson,  Northwestern  States ;  Rey  L.  Pratt,  Mexico ;  Nephi 
Jensen,  Canada ;  and  Benjamin  Goddard,  Bureau  of  Information,  Tem- 
ple Block,  Salt  Lake  City. 

The  Tabernacle  was  filled,  every  seat  being  occupied,  both  in  the 
gallery  and  in  the  body  of  the  building,  with  people  from  all  parts  of 
the  Church. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil 
nor  labor  fear." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley, 
President  of  the  Deseret  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Zion  stands  with 
hills  surrounded." 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  am  delighted  once  more  to  have  the  opportunity  of  meeting  with 
the  Latter-day  Saints  in  General  Conference  assembled.  I  am  pleased 
indeed  to  see  so  large  a  congregation  here  today,  considering  the  in- 
clement weather  of  some  months  past,  and  the  great  need  of  our 
farming  community  to  stay  at  home  to  prepare  their  farms  for  the 
coming  harvest.  It  shows  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  when 
they  neglect  their  ordinary  temporal  affairs,  and,  upon  a  week  day, 
assemble  in  such  large  numbers  as  we  see  here  before  us.  I  believe 
this  is  one  of  the  largest  congregations  I  have  seen  for  a  number  of 
years,  except  on  the  Sabbath  day,  of  Conference  when,  as  you  know, 
the  building  is  overcrowded  and  we  have  to  hold  overflow  meet- 
ings. 

THE  INSPIRATIONS  FROM   A   NOTED  HYMN 

I  never  hear  the  opening  hymn,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil 
nor  labor  fear,  but  with  joy  wend  your  way,"  but  that  my  heart  goes 
out  in  gratitude  and  thanksgiving  to  God  for  these  wonderful  men 
and  women  who  sang  this  hymn,  day  after  day,  and  week  after  week, 
and  month  after  month,  as  they  were  crossing  the  plains,  coming  fif- 
teen hundred  miles  from  the  city  of  Nauvoo,  where,  as  you  know, 
they  had  been  expelled  by  a  mob.  A  gentleman  said  to  me  in  substance, 
when  I  sang  him  this  hymn  one  day  as  I  was  taking  him  up  one  of  our 
beautiful  canyons,  "Mr.  Grant,  I  have  never  heard  a  single  verse  of 
any  hymn  that  has  impressed  me  more  with  an  absolute  and  perfect 
faith  in  the  immortality  of  the  soul  of  man  than  that  last  verse  in 
your  hymn,  'Come,  come,  ye  Saints.'  "  Previously  he  had  asked  me 
for  a  copy  of  the  hymn  which  I  gave  him,  and  in  addition,  I  had 
given  him  a  copy  of  The  Songs  of  Zion. 

"And  should  we  die  before  our  journey's  through,  happy  day,  all 
is  well.    We  then  are  free  from  toil  and  sorrow  too,  with  the  just 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


we  shall  dwell."  I  am  convinced  that  every  one  of  the  people  who 
traveled  a  thousand  miles  over  an  almost  trackless  trail  to  these  val- 
leys of  the  mountains,  and  who  sang  this  hymn,  had  an  absolutely 
abiding  testimony  in  their  hearts  and  souls  of  the  immortality  of  man. 
There  is  no  doubt  in  the  mind  of  any  Latter-day  Saint  that  the  body 
shall  be  literally  resurrected,  that  we  shall  meet  God,  our  Father,  in 
whose  image  we  were  made,  that  we  shall  meet  our  Redeemer,  our 
elder  brother,  the  Son  of  the  living  God.  We  have  in  very  deed 
found  the  place  which  God  for  us  prepared.  We  have  in  very  deed 
been  blessed  of  God.  We  have  become,  as  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
predicted,  a  mighty  people  in  the  midst  of  the  Rocky  Mountains.  He 
said  that  the  Saints  should  continue  to  suffer  much  persecution  and 
affliction,  that  many  should  be  put  to  death  by  our  persecutors,  and 
others  should  live  to  go  and  assist  in  building  cities  and  making  set- 
tlements and  should  become  a  great  and  a  mighty  people  in  the  midst 
of  the  Rocky  Mountains.  This  part  of  the  country  was  then  con- 
sidered a  worthless  tract ;  it  was  put  down  upon  the  maps  as  the  "Great 
American  Desert,"  but  the  inspiration  of  the  living  God  to  Joseph 
Smith  as  shown  by  the  prophecy  that  he  uttered  and  had  recorded, 
was  that  we  were  to  come  here;  and  we  have  come  here,  and  we  have 
become  a  mighty  people  in  the  midst  of  these  mountains.  Brigham 
Young  announced  that  in  vision  the  Lord  had  shown  him  this  valley, 
and  when  he  stood  upon  the  hill  to  the  east  and  saw  the  valley,  he  said 
"This  is  the  place."  When  I  think  of  this  great  building  erected  by 
him  and  remember  that  the  few  nails  used  in  it  cost  at  the  rate  of 
$1.00  a  pound,  and  that  it  is  held  together  with  wooden  pins  and  tied 
with  raw-hide — when  I  think  of  the  erection  of  this  building  and  the 
organ  here  and  all  the  great  things  that  were  accomplished  under  the 
direction  of  that  wonderful  pioneer,  especially  when  I  hear  this  hymn, 
my  heart  goes  out  in  gratitude,  that  I,  too,  had  a  father  who  was  one 
of  those  who  came  here  in  early  days  as  a  pioneer  and  that  he  had  in 
his  heart  the  love  of  God  and  the  faith  that  God  had  prepared  a  place 
for  us,  far  away  in  the  West. 

CONCERNING  THE  GREAT  SUGAR  INDUSTRY  OF  THE 
INTERMOUNTAIN  COUNTRY 

I  have  received  a  communication  asking  me  if  I  did  not  think  I 
had  charged  a  little  bit  too  much  when  I  received  $900,000  commis- 
sion for  raising  $2,100,0001  to  help  out  the  Utah-Idaho  Sugar  Company. 
I  did  not  get  one  dollar  of  commission,  neither  did  the  "Mormon" 
Church  get  a  dollar  of  commission ;  but  the  "Mormon"  Church  used 
its  credit  for  $2,100,000  to  buy  $3,000,000  of  preferred  stock,  (less 
the  limited  amount  which  the  share  holders  took,  which  was  a  little 
less,  as  I  remember  it,  than  10  per  cent  of  the  capital  stock).  We 
did  this  to  save  the  sugar  industry,  and  I  spent  weeks  of  my  time  bor- 
rowing money  for  the  Church — something  we  do  not  like  to  do,  and 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


would  not  have  done  except  to  save  a  great  industry,  for  the  benefit 
of  the  farmers  and  the  stockholders  of  the  company. 

I  want  to  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  the  first  beet  sugar 
factory  ever  built  in  the  United  States  of  America,  with  American 
machinery,  was  built  by  the  people  of  Utah,  at  Lehi ;  but  for  the  fact 
that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  used  its  credit 
and  borrowed  the  money  to  build  that  factory,  during  the  panic  of 
1891,  that  factory  would  never  have  been  built.  I  was  utilized  by 
President  Woodruff  and  his  counselors  as  the  financial  agent  of 
the  Church,  and  I  went  to  New  York,  to  Boston,  to  Hartford,  to 
Philadelphia,  to  San  Francisco  and  other  places,  and  borrowed  money 
upon  the  credit  of  the  Church  to  finish  that  factory,  for  the  people 
who  had  subscribed  for  stock  in  it,  because  of  the  panic,  failed  to  ful- 
fil their  pledges.  It  is  only  fair  to  say  that  many  of  the  bankers  were 
not  willing  to  loan  money  to  build  that  factory,  even  to  the  Church, 
because  banks  were  failing  all  over  the  country.  I  made  a  proposi- 
tion to  the  bank  that  loaned  the  last  $100,000  for  the  building  of  the 
factory  that  if  the  banker,  the  cashier  and  manager  of  Wells  Fargo 
Bank  of  San  Francisco,  would  write  the  names  of  twenty-five  of 
the  strongest  financial  men  in  Salt  Lake  City  who  were  "Mormons" 
I  would  promise  that  twenty  out  of  that  twenty-five  would  individually 
and  collectively  guarantee  the  payment  of  the  $100,000.  i  used 
to  be  his  office  boy  in  Salt  Lake  City  when  he  was  the  manager  of 
Wells  Fargo  Bank  here,  and  I  pleaded  with  him  that  as  he  believed  in 
me  as  a  boy,  to  believe  in  me  now  as  a  man  and  as  one  of  the  leaders 
of  the  "Mormon"  Church.  He  laughed  and  said,  "Why,  Heber,  that 
is  an  impossibility,  no  set  of  men  on  the  face  of  the  earth  would 
guarantee  four  Church  notes  for  $25,000  each.  I  said,  "All  I  ask 
is  for  you  to  give  me  the  privilege,  and  if  I  fail  to  get  the  twenty 
signatures,  then  I  do  not  ask  you  to  loan  me  the  money."  He  said, 
"My  boy,  I  will  go  you  100  per  cent  better;  you  offer  me  a  margin 
of  five;  I  will  give  you  a  margin  of  ten.  I  will  write  thirty  names, 
and  if  you  can  get  twenty  out  of  the  thirty,  your  Church  can  have 
the  money."  He  wrote  four  or  five,  tore  up  the  slip  of  paper,  threw 
it  in  the  waste-basket  and  said,  "By  the  way,  Heber,  twelve  or  four- 
teen years  have  passed  since  I  left  Salt  Lake,  many  a  man  who  was 
wealthy  then  may  be  busted  now ;  I  will  just  have  my  successor  in 
Salt  Lake  write  those  thirty  names  and  when  you  take  him  the  notes 
he  will  pay  you  the  money.  I  came  home  and  the  man  wrote  thirty 
names.  I  secured  twenty-four  signatures  out  of  the  thirty  and  three 
of  the  men  on  the  list  were  out  of  the  city,  and  I  secured  one  endorser 
who  was  not  on  the  list,  the  late  David  Eccles,  who  was  worth  more 
than  any  half  dozen  of  the  men  who  signed.  David  Eccles  who  heard 
me  telling  the  story,  asked  me  the  question,  "Is  my  name  one  of  the 
thirty?"  When  I  said,  "No,"  he  said,  "I  would  like  to  look  at  those 
notes."  I  had  said  they  were  payable,  one  in  six  months,  one  in 
twelve  months,  one  in  eighteen  months  and  one  in  twenty-four  months. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


He  did  not  look  at  the  face  of  them ;  he  turned  them  wrong  side  up 
and  wrote  his  name  on  the  back  of  them  and  said,  "My  name  won't 
hurt  them."  Then  he  said,  "You  tell  President  Wilford  Woodruff 
that  David  Eccles  always  keeps  two  or  three  hundred  thousand  dol- 
lars where  he  can  put  his  hand  on  it  by  giving  thirty  days'  notice,  and 
that,  as  these  notes  fall  due,  if  he  will  give  me  thirty  days'  notice,  I 
will  take  them  up,  and  he  can  pay  me  in  one  year  or  five  years  or  ten 
years  or  whenever  convenient. 

There  is,  perhaps,  nothing  more  tiresome  to  an  audience,  ac- 
customed to  hearing  a  man  speak  always  without  reading,  than  for 
him  to  read  to  them,  but  I  am  going  to  tire  you  by  reading  an  edi- 
torial from  the  Improvement  Era,  entitled,  "Integrity  and  Industry :" 

"In  the  practical  religion  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  we  find  not  only  spirit- 
uality, but  integrity;  not  only  faith,  but  works"    *    *    *  * 

I  may  not  have  been  a  very  good  preacher  of  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord,  Jesus  Christ,  from  the  standpoint  of  doctrinal  preaching,  but 
I  have  endeavored,  to  the  best  of  my  ability,  since  I  was  called  as  a 
boy  forty  odd  years  ago,  to  preside  over  the  Tooele  stake  of  Zion, 
and  forty  years  this  coming  October,  to  be  one  of  the  apostles  of  the 
Lord,  Jesus  Christ,  to  preach  the  doctrine  of  St.  James,  "I  will  show 
thee  my  faith  by  my  works."  He  wanted  men  to  show  their  faith  by 
their  works ;  and  I  have  announced  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  time  and 
time  again  from  my  first  public  speech  lasting  seven  and  a  half  min- 
utes, after  my  call  to  the  ministry,  +hat  I  did  not  ask  any  man  to  be 
a  more  honest  tithe  payer,  or  a  more  perfect  observer  of  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  or  to  be  a  better  observer  of  his  family  and  secret  prayers, 
or  to  be  more  liberal  in  proportion  to  his  means,  for  the  advance- 
ment of  God's  kingdom,  than  I  would  be ;  and,  thank  the  Lord,  I 
have  kept  that  promise,  made  to  the  people  of  Tooele.  I  believe  in 
the  Latter-day  Saint  who  is  honest  with  the  Lord,  God  Almighty, 
who  believes  it  a  privilege  to  contribute  to  the  Lord  one-tenth  of 
all  that  the  Lord  puts  into  his  hands,  I  believe  in  the  man  who  goes 
down  on  his  knees  and  supplicates  God  every  day  of  his  life  for  the 
guidance  that  comes  from  above ;  I  believe  in  the  man  who  observes 
the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  who  has  faith  enough  not  to  take  into  his 
system  those  things  that  the  Lord,  God  Almighty  has  revealed  to  us 
are  not  good  for  man. 

.<*  *  *  *  no(-  only  thrift,  but  industry,  not  only  co-operation,  but 
unselfish  service.  In  a  community  where  these  characteristics  predomi- 
nate, the  consequence  must  necessarily  result  in  a  God-fearing,  clean,  loyal, 
prosperous  and  dependable  people. 

"As  an  illustration  of  these  remarks,  we  cite  the  wisdom  displayed  in 
the  saving  of  the  sugar  industry  of  Utah  and  Idaho  from  the  recent  threat- 
ened disaster.  The  founding  of  the  sugar  industry  was  one  of  the  grandest 
happenings  that  could  come  to  the  West,  and  is  an  illustration  of  the  wis- 
dom, faith,  and  integrity  of  those  who  stood  and  who  stand  at  its  head.  Had 
this  great  industry,  which  was  seriously  threatened,  not  been  sustained 
and  protected,  the  disastrous  effects  would  indeed  have  been  far-reaching.. 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  the  loss  most  dreadful,,  not  only  to  business,  but  to  individual  producers 
as  well. 

"In  view  of  these  facts,  and  considering  the  benefits  to  be  derived  from 
this  accomplishment,  the  following  statement,  from  one  who  is  well-in- 
formed on  the  subject,  must  prove  of  great  interest,  both  to  manufacturers 
and  farmers,  as  well  as  to  the  people  in  general: 

"  'For  the  various  sugar  companies  of  Utah  and  Idaho  during  the  season 
of  1921,  there  were  approximately  1601.000  acres  of  sugar  beets  grown  by 
approximately  16,000  farmers.  About  half  of  this  amount  was  raised  for  the 
Utah-Idaho  Sugar  Company.  The  16,000  farmers  delivered  from  the  160.  - 
000  acres  to  the  various  companies  in  the  two  states  approximately  1,600',- 

000  tons  of  beets,  from  which  upwards  of  4,000,000  bags  of  sugar  have  been 
manufactured,  which-  if  sold  at  the  present  price  of  about  $4.50  per  bag, 
would  amount  to  approximately  $18,000,000,  this  being  distributed,  about 
one-half  to  the  farmer,  and  the  other  half  to  the  workmen  and  manufac- 
turers for  material,  etc.  While  the  manufacturers  of  this  sugar  will  un- 
doubtedly sustain  a  loss,  unless  the  price  of  sugar  increases,  yet  the  benefits 
to  be  derived  from  the  circulation  of  this  vast  sum  of  money,  during  this 
period  of  financial  .distress),  is  of  inestimable  value.  It  furnishes  the  very 
life's  blood  of  our  industrial  pursuits,  and  will  assist  in  tiding  this  section 
of  the  country  over,  in  some  of  its  financial  difficulties. 

Speaking  of  circulation  of  the  blood  reminds  me  of  the  fact  that 
a  dollar  as  the  circulating  medium  of  finance,  is  to  the  body  of  the 
financial  world,  exactly  what  a  drop  of  blood  is  to  the  human  body. 

1  understand  there  are  about  twenty  pounds  of  blood  in  the  human 
body,  and  that  the  heart  handles  about  four  ounces  every  time  it 
beats;  therefore  it  handles,  since  the  heart  beats  about  eighty  times 
a  minute,  the  whole  twenty  pounds  every  minute.  Multiply  this 
quantity  by  sixty,  and  then  multiply  it  by  twenty-four,  and  you  get 
more  than  ten  tons — yet  there  are  only  twenty  pounds  of  blood 
which  circulate  continuously  every  twenty-four  hours.  Twenty 
pounds  of  circulating  medium ;  ten  tons  of  work  every  twenty-four 
hours — the  heart,  just  about  the  size  of  my  hand,  is  a  wonderful  little 
pump.  It  goes,  with  some  people,  over  ninety  years,  without  even 
being  told  to  go.  Of  course,  it  just  accidentally  dropped  inside  of  us, 
and  just  accidentally  goes  on,  according  to  the  ideas  of  some  people! 

Now,  it  is  estimated  that  a  dollar  does  from  $25  to  $100  worth  of 
work  every  year.  Just  figure  it  out — if  you  can  get  a  string  of 
figures  long  enough — what  this  $18,000,000  would  do,  if  it  did  a 
hundred  times  that  much  work  every  year.  Brother  Ivins  had  an  inter- 
esting check.  A  man  in  Arizona,  where  they  have  had  great  money  de- 
pression and  are  hard  up  on  account  of  the  discontinuance  of  the  high 
prices  for  cotton,  drew  up  a  check  for  $25.  When  the  check  was  returned 
it  had  paid  $500  in  debts,  having  twenty  endorsers.  I  heard  the  manager 
of  the  Federal  Reserve  bank  in  our  city  say  that  some  six  or  seven 
months  ago  there  were  forty  odd  million  dollars  of  rediscounts  in  that 
bank,  and  that  they  had  been  reduced  to  twenty-two  and  a  fraction.  I 
want  to  give  it,  as  my  judgment,  that  as  85  per  cent  of  all  the  sugar 
that  is  raised  in  the  intermountain  country  has  to  go  to  or  beyond  the 
Missouri  river,  if  the  vast  sum  of  money,  resulting  from  sugar  sales  had 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


not  been  brought  here,  instead  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  having  only 
twenty  odd  millions  of  rediscounts  today,  it  would  have  nearer  thirty 
odd  millions. 

I  have  often  told  the  story  about  Bishop  Geo.  E.  Farrell,  who  bought 
some  home-made  shoes  and  paid  for  them  at  the  depot,  and  then 
found  his  $5  went  around  and  around  and  at  last  landed  in  his  own 
pocket  after  paying  $25  worth  of  debts.  He  said  he  bought  home- 
made goods  because  it  kept  the  money  at  home  and  helped  build  up  the 
community.  I  recommend  this,  because,  since  I  was  a  youth  of  17 
or  18,  I  bought  but  one  suit  of  clothes  in  Salt  Lake.until  the  mills  closed, 
not  made  from  cloth  manufactured  in  the  old  Provo  Woolen  Mills. 
I  heard  Brigham  Young  deliver  a  sermon  here,  telling  the  people  who 
were  then  a  thousand  miles  from  supplies,  that  we  should  be  self- 
sustaining  and  should  patronize  home  manufacturing  institutions.  I 
patronized  the  Provo  Woolen  Mills  from  that  day  until  the  day  the 
mills  closed.  The  one  suit  purchased  in  Salt  Lake  that  was  not  made 
from  Provo  goods,  was  when  I  had  the  honor  of  being  in  the  Legis- 
lature. We  gave  a  ball  to  the  members  of  the  Wyoming  legislature. 
I  was  wearing  at  that  time  a  gray  Provo  suit;  but  did  not  want  to 
be  the  only  white  sheep  at  the  ball  in  the  theatre ;  so  I  bought  a  hand- 
me-down  black  suit  from  the  Z.  C.  M.  I. — "Prince  Albert."  The  next 
day  I  gave  that  thirty  odd  dollar  suit  to  a  poor  relative.  I  said  I  did 
not  want  to  have  it  on,  if  I  should  happen  to  want  to  preach  on  sup- 
porting home  manufacture.  • 

"  'Had  this  financing  not  been  accomplished,  business  concerns  through- 
out this  section  would  have  been  shaken  to  their  very  foundations  and 
would  have  suffered  great  losses. 

"  'To  produce  the  $18,000,000  resulting  from  the  160,000  acres  of  beets 
and  the  sugar  manufactured  therefrom,  it  would  take  1,000,000  acres  of 
grain  or  1,500,000  acres  of  alfalfa  at  the  present  prices.  Therefore  the 
sugar  beet  crop  manufactured  into  sugar  has  produced,  in  the  gross,  five  or 
six  times,  at  least,  as  much  per  acre  as  that  of  the  other  standard  crops  of 
this  section.  \t  also  furnishes  thousands  of  people  with  employment  both 
in  and  out  of  the  factories,  which  the  other  crops  do  not  furnish. 

"  'Besides,  the  by-products  of  the  beet  crop,  such  as  tops,  pulp  and  syrup, 
have  fed  thousands  of  head  of  cattle,  sheep  and  dairy  cows,  thus  produc- 
ing abundance  of  beef,  mutton  and  dairy  products,  for  home  consumption 
and  shipment  abroad,  the  returns  for  which  have  been  brought  back  to  the 
two  states  above  mentioned.  Futher,  the  feeding  of  the  livestock  on  the 
farms  helps  to  keep  up  the  fertility.  It  has  been  thoroughly  demonstrated 
that  the  growing  of  sugar  beets  raises  the  standard  of  farming  and  in- 
creases the  yields  of  other  crops  to  follow.  The  countries  of  the  old  world, 
as  well  as  the  new,  where  sugar  beets  have  been  grown  for  a  long  period 
of  years,  have  proved  that  where  25  per  cent  of  the  land  has  been  used 
for  beet  culture  the  remaining  75  per  cent  has  raised  as  much  in  cereals  as 
the  100  per  cent  produced  before  sugar  beets  were  grown.  The  deep  plow- 
ing required  for  this  crop,  the  intense  cultivation  of  the  soil,  and  the  sma'l, 
fine  rootlets  of  the  beets,  that  penetrate  deeply  into  the  soil,  and  are  left  there 
to  pass  off  into  the  soil,  are  all  beneficial  to  other  crops  in  the  rotation  system 
which  so  many  of  the  farmers  have  learned  to  follow.'  " 

This  is  the  end  of  the  quotation  from  whoever  furnished  this  in- 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


formation.  The  associate  editor  of  the  Era,  Edward  H.  Anderson, 
than  whom  no  more  faithful,  no  more  upright,  no  more  diligent  man 
is  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  makes  the 
following  comment: 

"Both  business  and  agriculture  have  indeed  cause  to  be  thankful  that 
the  policy  pursued  in  the  beginning  of  the  sugar  industry  in  Utah,  about 
thirty  years  ago,  is  still  to  be  continued." 

After  hearing  an  adverse  report  to  establishing  the  industry,  made 
by  a  committee  of  leading  financial  minds  of  Utah,  President  Wilford 
Woodruff  said,  "The  beet  sugar  industry  will  be  beneficial  to  this 
community,  and  although  it  may  break  the  Church,  it  shall  be  estab- 
lished." To  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  to  that  man,  we  are  indebted  for 
the  establishment  of  this  great  industry. 

HOME  MANUFACTURE 

I  am  delighted  to  say  that  within  the  last  week,  I  have  placed 
an  order  for  a  suit  of  clothes  from  goods  made  at  the  Knight  Woolen 
factory.  Go  thou  and  do  likewise.  I  am  delighted  to  say  that  I  am 
standing  in  shoes  that  are  made  here  at  home.  Go  thou  and  do  like- 
wise. We  sing,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet  to  guide  us 
in  these  latter  days,"  but  many  of  us  ought  to  put  a  postscript  on  it, 
"Provided  he  doesn't  guide  us  to  do  something  that  we  do  not  want 
to  do." 

GOVERNMENT  AID  TO  INDUSTRY 

During  the  past  year,  on  account  of  the  financial  distress  and 
other  troubles,  I  have  had  to  go  to  New  York  and  Washington  three 
times.  I  want  to  say  that  I  am  delighted  to  be  a  citizen  of  this  great 
Republic.  I  am  delighted  that  we  are  a  great  and  powerful  nation; 
I  am  delighted  that  the  men  who  stand  at  the  head  of  this  nation 
are  anxious  for  the  welfare  of  the  farmer,  the  stock-growers,  the 
beet  industry  and  every  other  industry  in  our  country.  I  believe  that, 
except  for  the  aid  extended  by  the  Government  of  the  United  States, 
through  the  War  Finance  Committee,  amounting  to  about  nine  mil- 
lion, five  hundred  thousand  dollars,  our  beet  sugar  industry  could  not 
have  survived.  Bankers  from  San  Francisco,  Chicago  and  New  York 
declined  to  assist  when  we  appealed  for  aid  to  harvest  our  beet  crops, 
for  some  of  our  factories  here.  We  asked  for  an  adjournment  of  forty- 
eight  hours.  The  next  day  a  committee  of  influential  men  from  this 
City  and  from  Denver  presented  our  claims  to  Mr.  Eugene  Meyer,  Jr., 
the  manager  of  the  War  Finance  Committee,  and  to  his  associates.  Mr. 
Meyer  introduced  us  to  the  President  of  the  United  States,  who  very 
kindly  said,  "These  men  are  entitled  to  your  help."  Before  the  day  was 
over  we  were  pledged  ten  million  dollars  upon  our  stock  of  sugars, 
with  which  to  harvest  the  beet  crop  and  to  furnish  the  money  to  pay 
the  farmer.  That  money  came  to  us  rapidly.  The  next  day,  when  we 
went  back  to  New  York,  where  we  had  been  met  with  a  cold  reception 
and  no  promise  of  help,  arrangements  were  made  for  a  year's  exten- 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


sion  upon  several  millions  of  obligations  of  some  of  the  sugar  com- 
panies.   I  am  grateful  for  our  wonderful  country. 

SERVICES  AND  LIBERTIES  OF  OUR  GREAT  AND  GLORIOUS  COUNTRY 

Speaking  of  our  wonderful  country  reminds  me  that  recently 
I  heard, three  speeches  by  Herbert  Hoover,  which  are  among  the  most 
remarkable  that  I  have  heard  in  my  life.  One  was  given  at  the 
Commercial  Club,  one  before  the  Engineer's  Association  of  Utah  and 
the  third  one  before  the  Rotarians.  I  have  just  sent  a  copy  of  the 
speech  before  the  Rotarians  to  the  Deseret  News,  to  be  printed  next 
Saturday.  I  would  to  the  Lord  that  every  American  citizen  would 
read  that  speech.  I  will  read  the  closing  paragraph.  He  had  told 
of  the  feeding  of  millions  upon  millions  by  our  great  and  glorious 
country,  and  he  closed  by  saying: 

"I  feel  certain  that  it  is  more  important  to  our  country  both  spiritually 
and  materially  that  we  should  have  planted  the  American  flag  in  the 
hearts  of  250,000,000  people,  than  that  we  should  maintain  it  at  the  mast- 
head of  any  battle-ship  we  have  yet  built." 

While  I  think  of  it,  I  am  grateful  for  the  success  of  that  won- 
derful Disarmament  Conference  recently  held  in  Washington,  as  a 
result  of  which  millions  upon  millions  of  dollars  of  battleships  will  be 
peaceably  sunk,  instead  of  being  used  as  engines  of  war  to  kill  hosts 
of  people  and  to  be  sunk  in  battle ;  and  that  the  armaments  of  the 
great  countries  have  been  reduced. 

A  FIVE  WEEKS'  REST  AND  ACTIVITY  IN  CALIFORNIA 

I  recently  had  the  pleasure  of  spending  a  little  more  than  five 
weeks  in  Southern  California.  After  the  strenuous  time  that  I  had 
in  the  East,  and  the  multiplicity  of  duties  that  devolve  upon  me,  I 
took  my  first  long  rest  since  I  was  a  boy  of  fifteen.  Nevertheless, 
mail  followed  me  and  I  kept  a  stenographer  busy  most  of  the  time 
while  I  was  resting.  In  addition  I  had  the  pleasure  of  attending 
meetings  in  the  wonderful  city  of  Los  Angeles,  which  is  growing  by 
leaps  and  bounds,  in  Ocean  Park,  in  San  Bernardino,  in  Fresno,  in 
Bakersfield,  in  Long  Beach  and  in  San  Diego.  I  attended  nine 
meetings  in  five  weeks.  Notwithstanding  the  "loaf,"  so  to  speak, 
that  I  had  down  there,  I  did  quite  a  bit  of  work.  We  dedicated  a 
meeting-house  in  San  Bernardino,  and  I  feel  to  rejoice  that  upon  the 
spot  of  ground  that  was  originally  settled  by  "Mormon"  pioneers,  we 
now  have  our  own  meeting-house.  The  United  States  sent  an  army 
against  us  because  some  run-away  judges  lied  and  said  that  we  had 
burned  the  court  records  and  that  we  were  in  rebellion,  etc.,  etc. ; 
when  these  charges  were  afterwards  proved  to  be  false  we  were 
pardoned  for  sins  that  we  had  not  committed.  At,  that  time  the 
"Mormon"  pioneers  in  San  Bernardino  were  called  home  from  the  great 
California  ranch  which  they  had  bought  and  which  today,  no  doubt, 
is  worth  more  than  all  the  possessions  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


of  Latter-day  Saints,  several  times  over.  The  fact  is  that  those  who 
remained  there  and  who  did  not  come  back  when  Brigham  Young 
called  them,  lost  their  faith;  and  every  Latter-day  Saint  who  believes 
and  knows  that  we  have  the  truth,  realize  that  the  saving  of  one  soul 
is  of  greater  value  than  all  the  wealth  of  the  world.  Therefore  we 
feel  to  thank  the  Lord  that  about  95  per  cent  of  the  San  Bernardino 
settlers  came  back  to  Utah.  I  thank  the  Lord  that  upon  the  spot  in 
California  where  once  the  Latter-day  Saints  were  established,  we 
now  have  our  own  meeting-house. 

I  rejoice  thoroughly  in  the  wonderful  spirit  of  the  gospel  which 
I  found  in  my  recent  labors  in  California.  There  are  no  people  in 
all  the  wide  world  that  can  compare  with  the  Latter-day  Saints  in 
fulfiling  the  admonition  of  our  Redeemer  to  keep  the  first  and 
second  great  commandents,  "Thou  shalt  love  thy  God  with  all 
thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul  and  with  all  thy  mind" ;  and  the 
second  is  like  unto  it,  "Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself." 

WONDERFUL    MISSIONARY    WORK    OF    THE    LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

When  I  think  of  the  wonderful  missionary  work  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  the  five  hundred,  the  thousand,  and  some  years  two  thous- 
and men  at  a  time  who  go  out  at  their  own  expense,  with  no  hope  of 
earthly  reward,  to  proclaim  an  unpopular  doctrine,  solely  because  of 
the  love  of  their  fellow  men,  I  rejoice  in  this  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
that  inspires  men  with  a  willingness  to  perform  such  service.  When 
I  think  of  the  twenty  long  years  that  have  been  given  in  proclaiming 
the  gospel  without  money  and  without  price,  by  my  counselor,  Presi- 
dent Charles  W.  Penrose,  now  90  years  old — twenty  long  years  in 
his  native  land,  ten  years  as  a  young  man  from  nineteen  to  twenty- 
nine,  without  purse  and  without  scrip — .without  hope  of  earthly  re- 
ward, I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  and  the  knowledge  of  the  gospel  that 
must  be  in  a  man's  heart  who  will  give  such  wonderful  evidence  of 
the  love  of  God  and  the  love  of  his  fellow  man.  No  peoples  in  all  the 
world  can  compare  with  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  giving  of  their  time 
and  their  money  for  the  benefit  of  their  fellows,  to  carry  to  them  the 
glad  tidings  of  great  joy.  The  California  mission  is  growing  by 
leaps  and  bounds  as  are  all  of  our  missions. 

EDUCATIONAL  ACTIVITIES — CHURCH  AND  SECULAR 

That  reminds  me  that  I  have  a  few  missionary  statistics  here  in 
connection  with  some  others,  that  I  will  now  read : 

"There  have  been  expended  for  the  year  1921  for  stake  and  ward 
purposes  in  the  maintenance  of  operation  of  the  stakes  and  the  wards  of 
the  Church,  $925,270. 

"Education — Expended  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  Church 
schools  and  seminaries,  $893,000.  i 

I  will  read  something  about  education  from  a  great  educator, 
Nicholas  Murray  Butler,  President  of  the  Columbia  University.  This 
was.  sent  to  me  by  the  President  of  the  Brigham  Young  College : 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


11 


"The  little  red  schoolhouse  of  the  generation  that  followed  the  Civil 
War,  with  its  wretchedly  poor  equipment  but  with  an  earnest  and  devoted 
teacher  who  laid  stress  upon  character-building  and  upon  the  fundamentals 
of  intellectual  training,  did  more  for  the  American  people  than  does  many 
a  costly  and  well-equipped  educational  palace  such  as  may  be  seen  in  any 
part  of  the  United  States  today. 

"It  is  significant,  too,  that  in  this  period  of  vigorous  and  able-bodied 
reaction  the  world  should  be  without  a  poet,  without  a  philosopher,  and 
without  a  notable  religious  leader.  The  great  voices  of  the  spirit  arte  all  stilled 
just  now.  while  the  mad  passion  for  gain  and  for  power  endeavors  to 
gratify  itself  through  the  odd  device  of  destroying  what  has  already  been 
gained  or  accomplished. 

"The  simple  business  of  training  young  children  in  good  habits  of  diet 
and  exercise  and  conduct;  of  teaching  them  the  elementary  facts  of  the 
nature  which  surrounds  them  and  of  the  society  of  which  they  form  a  part; 
and  of  giving  them  ability  to  read  undcrstandingly,  to  write  legibly  and  to 
perform  quickly  and  with  accuracy  the  fundamental  operations  with  num- 
bers, has  been  pushed  into  the  background  by  all  sorts  of  enterprises  that 
have  their  origin  in  eimotionalism  in  ignorance,  or  in  mlere  vanity. 

"There  is  no  man,  there  is  no  people,  without  a  God.  That  God  may  be 
a  visible  idol,  carved  of  wood,  or  stone,  to  which  sacrifice  is  offered  in 
the  forest,,  in  the  temple,  or  in  the  market-place;  or  it  may  be  an  invisible 
idol,  fashioned  in  a  man's  own  image  and  worshiped  ardently  at  his  own 
personal  shrine.  Somewhere  in  the  universe  there  is  that  in  which  each 
individual  has  firm  faith,  and  on  which  he  places  steady  reliance.  The  fool 
who  says  in  his  heart,  "There  is  no  God"  really  means  there  is  no  God  but 
himself.  His  supreme  egotism,  his  colossal  vanity,  have  placed  him  at  the 
center  of  the  universe  which  is  thereafter  to  be  measured  and  dealt  with  in 
terms  of  his  personal  satisfactions.  So  it  has  come  to  pass  that  after 
nearly  two  thousand  years  much  of  the  world  resembles  the  Athens  of  St. 
Paul's  time,  in  that  it  is  wholly  given  to  idolatry;  but  in  the  modern  case 
there  are  as  many  idols  as  idol  worshipers,  and  every  such  idol  worshiper 
finds  his  idol  in  the  looking-glass.  The  time  has  come  once  again  to  repeat 
and  to  expound  in  thundrous  tones  the  noble  sermon  of  St.  Paul  on  Mars 
Hill,  and  to  declare  to  these  modern  idolaters  "Whom,  therefore,  ye  ignorantly 
worship,  Him  declare  I  unto  you." 

A  gentleman  sent  out  several  hundred  letters  to  representative 
ministers,  and  asked  them  the  question:  "Do  you  believe  in  God,  a 
personal  God,  a  definite  and  tangible  intelligence,  not  a  congeries  of 
laws  floating  like  a  fog  in  the  universe,  but  God  a  person,  in  whose 
image  you  were  made?"  Not  a  minister  answered,  "yes."  They  said 
they  could  not  be  certain  about  a  thing  of  that  kind.  There  is  no 
Latter-day  Saint  who  does  not  believe  absolutely  in  God  as  a  person- 
al being,  and  that  the  scripture  tells  the  truth  when  it  says  "In  the 
image  of  God  created  He  him;  male  and  female  created  He  them." 
The  foundation  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  organized  ninety-two 
years  ago  today,  is  based  upon  the  appearance  of  the  Liord,  God  Al- 
mighty, a  glorified  Being  beyond  the  power  of  man  to  describe,  to  a 
boy  not  yet  fifteen  years  of  age.  It  is  based  upon  the 
appearance  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  in  the  express  image 
of  the  Father,  to  that  boy.  In  answer  to  the  boy's  simple  question, 
"Which  of  all  the  churches  on  earth  today  is  the  true  one,"  the  Lord 
God  Almighty  pointed  to  His  Son  and  said  to  that  boy,  "This  is  my 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


beloved  Son ;  hear  Him."  When  the  question  was  repeated,  which 
church  to  join,  that  boy  was  told  to>  join  none  of  them;  that  they  had 
all  gone  astray.  lie  was  given  to  understand  that  he  would  be  the 
instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  of  again  establishing  upon  the  earth 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  declare  to  all  the  world  that  God 
lives,  that  He  is  the  Father  of  our  spirits,  that  He  is  absolutely  the 
Father  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world. 
Men  say  we  lack  liberality  and  breadth,  because  we  say  we  are  the 
only  true  Church.  We  are  not  lacking  in  liberality  or  breadth ;  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world,  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord  and  Savior,  said  it,  and 
we  are  repeating  what  He  said.  We  believe  in  allowing  all  men  abso- 
lute freedom  to  worship  where  and  what  they  may,  but  we  declare  to 
all  the  world  the  truth  as  it  has  been  revealed  to  us  through  the  Proph- 
et Joseph  Smith.  All  men,  all  women,  from  the  midnight  sun  country 
of  Scandinavia  to  South  Africa,  from  Canada  to  South  America,  or 
upon  the  Islands  of  the  sea,  who  have  entered  the  waters  of  baptism 
and  joined  the  Church  of  Christ,  believe  that  Joseph  Smith  was  in  very 
deed  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  living  God,  and  that  God  is  a  person 
and  talked  to  the  boy  Joseph.  The  whole  world  may  declare  they 
do  noi  believe  that  Joseph  Smith  saw  God,  the  whole  world  may  declare 
that  they  do  not  believe  that  Jesus  Christ  appeared  to  him  or  delivered 
a  message,  but  all  the  disbelief  of  the  world  cannot  change  that  message 
and  the  truth  of  it,  as  it  was  delivered.  Joseph  Smith  declared  that 
three  years  after  the  First  Vision,  in  answer  to. fervent  prayer,  an  an- 
gel of  God  appeared  and  delivered  a  message  to  him ;  that  the  angel  dis- 
appeared and  leturned  and  repeated  his  message  again;  that  he  again 
dissappeared  and  returned  the  third  time.  The  entire  night  was  con- 
sumed with  the  three  repetitions  of  that  message  which  was  that 
there  were  buried,  in  the  Hill  Cumorah,  some  golden  plates  upon 
which  was  inscribed  the  sacred  history  of  the  forefathers  of  the 
American  Indians,  and  that  he  should  be  the  instrument  in  the  hands 
of  God  of  translating  those  plates.  The  plates  have  been  translated  and 
the  translation  is  now  known  as  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

"Oh,"  says  one,  "I  do  not  believe  he  ever  had  the  plates."  If 
he  had  the  plates,  the  disbelief  of  the  world  cannot  change  it.  Joseph 
Smith  announced  that  John,  the  Baptist,  came  to  the  earth  laid  his 
hands  upon  the  heads  of  Oliver  Cowdery  and  Joseph  Smith,  and  or- 
dained them  to  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  with  authority  to  baptize;  and 
he  also  announced  that  Peter,  James  and  John  came  to  the  earth  and 
delivered  the  authority  to  build  up  the  Church  of  Christ,  by  laying 
their  hands  upon  them  and  by  ordaining  them  to  the  Melchizedek  or 
the  higher  Priesthood  and  by  bestowing  upon  them  the  Apostleship. 
So,  to  all  the  world  we  declare  these  truths,  and  the  disbelief  of  all 
the  world  cannot  change  the  fact,  for  it  is  a  fact.  God  has  given  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints  by  the  revelations  of  His  Spirit  a  knowledge 
that  this  is  true.  Again  reading  from  Prest.  Butler's  remarks:  "We 
are  trustees  of  a  great  inheritance.    If  we  abuse  or  neglect  that  trust, 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  13 

we  are  responsible  before  Almighty  God  for  the  infinite  damage  that 
will  be  done  in  the  lives  of  individuals  and  of  nations." 

I  will  have  this  extract  from  the  speech  of  Nicholas  Murray 
Butler,  part  of  which  I  have  read,  published  in  full  in  the  Era. 1 1  think 
you  will  all  enjoy  reading  it. 

I  rejoice  in  the  very  splendid  exercises  that  we  had  yesterday  up 
at  the  University.  You  will  undoubtedly  be  able  to  read  the  speeches 
that  were  made.    I  thoroughly  enjoyed  them,  and  I  am  sure  you  will. 

There  has  been  expended  for  educational  purposes  $893,000. 

This  is  over  100  per  cent,  nearly  150  per  cent  more  than  it  was 
a  few  years  ago.  I  regret,  because  of  the  falling  off  in  tithing,  the 
discontinuance  of  dividends  from  sugar  companies  and  other  ins- 
titutions, that  we  will  have  to  curtail  very  materially  during  the  com- 
ing year,  our  school  activities. 

CHURCH  CHARITIES  AND  MISSION  EXPENDITURES 

Expenditures  for  Temples : — Expended  for  the  construction,  maintenance 
and  operations  of  temples,  $170,000. 

Charities : — Amount  expended  from  the  tithes,  $266,649. 

There  was  expended  for  charities  through  the  Relief  Socities  and  other 
sources,  $459,769,  therefore  the  total  expenditures  for  Church  charities  last  year 
was  $726,733. 

You  wi'l  notice  that  the  total  expenditures  not  including  the  Relief  Society 
disbursements,  amount  to  $2,255,234,  which  is  for  stake  and  ward  purposes, 
education,  temples  and  charities. 

Mission  Expenditures 

For  the  erection  of  chapels  and  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  all  the 
missions  $518,647.  In  additions  to  the  payments  made  from  Church  funds  for 
mission  purposes,  we  estimate  there  has  been  sent  to  missionaries  by  their 
families  and  friends,  $860,640. 

By  the  way,  we  have  heard  it  remarked  by  some  people,  that 
they  had  quit  paying  tithing  because  all  the  tithing  comes  to  Salt  Lake 
City,  and  that  they  would  like  to  build  up  their  own  local  section. 
For  the  benefit  of  the  Saints,  I  will  announce  that  84  2-3  per  cent  of 
all  the  tithes  collected,  in  the  missions  and  in  the  Church,  is  sent  back 
to  the  stakes,  wards  and  missions.  So  the  immense  amount  that  is 
used  up  here  won't  hurt  anybody  very  much. 

CHURCH  GROWTH  AND  VITAL  STATISTICS 

Children  blessed  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  Church  in  the  stakes  and 


missions   20,441. 

Children  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions    15,404. 

Converts  entered  on  the  records  of  the  Church  by  baptism    7,113 

Net  increase  in  Church  membership  for  the  year  1921    22,779 


There  are  now  86  stakes  of  Zion,  879  wards,  24  missions  and  789  branches  in 
the  missions. 

Birth  rate,  37.3  per  thousand. 
Death  rate,  8.2  per  thousand. 

Families  owning  their  own  hemes,  75  per  cent. 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


VITAL  STATISTICS 

We  are  a  very  wicked  and  bad  people,  according  to  liars  over  in 
England  and  some  other  places,  even  in  this  country.  As  a  rule  no 
bad  people  have  a  high  birth  rate.  No  civilized  people,  who  are  bad, 
have  a  low  death  rate.  No  bad  people  have  a  low  proportion  of  the 
inmates  of  the  penitentiary.  The  Ex-Governor  of  Arizona  was  reputed 
to  have  said — I  did  not  hear  him  say  it,  but  George  Albert  Smith  and 
Joseph  F.  Smith  say  they  did;  that  no  better  citizens  could  be  found 
in  Arizona  than  the  "Mormons."  In  one  particular,  considering  the 
expenditure  of  the  state  taxes,  he  said  they  were  being  robbed  of  be- 
tween 2500  and  3000  per  cent,  because  in  proportion  to  their  popula- 
tion they  ought  to  have  in  the  Arizona  State  Penitentiary  from  twen- 
ty-five to  thirty  inmates  and  they  only  had  one.  He  said  that  in  anoth- 
er respect  they  were  being  robbed,  also,  for  they  ought  to  have  seven 
or  eight  in  the  Insane  Asylum,  and  did  not  have  any.  The  first 
time  I  went  to  Arizona,  after  I  heard  this  story,  I  was  speaking  in 
the  St.  Johns  meeting  house,  and  when  I  expressed  my  gratitude  that 
we  were  lacking  twenty-four  to  twenty-nine  inmates  in  the  state  peni- 
tentiary, a  gentleman  got  up  and  said  that  he  was  the  District  Judge 
in  Apache  county  and  that  the  one  "Mormon"  inmate  of  the  peni- 
tentiary had  been  pardoned.  When  Governor  Campbell  was  here 
with  the  Governors  of  the  states  of  the  Union,  he  and  some  others 
did  us  the  honor  to  call  upon  my  counselors  and  myself,  and  I  re- 
peated this  story  to  the  Governor.  '  He  laughed  and  said,  "Yes,  I 
remember,  he  was  from  Apache  county." 

I  have  been  connected,  since  the  time  I  was  a  boy  of  fif- 
teen— fifty  long  years — with  the  insurance  business.  The  death  rate 
in  the  great  life  insurance  companies,  like  the  Mutual  Life  and  the  New 
York  Life,  that  I  also  represented,  (neither  of  whom  would  insure  me, 
because  I  was  too  long  and  lean,  and  they  had  a  rule  you  know,  that 
a  man  has  to  be  somewhere  within  the  bounds  of  proportion  before 
he  is  fit  to  be  insured)  is  ten  and  a  fraction  to  the  thousand,  yet 
this  bad,  immoral  people  that  are  sending  out  missionaries  to  secure 
girls  practically  for  brothels  and  houses  of  ill-fame,  according  to  the 
liars  in  England,  whose  lies  have  caused  mobs  to  break  all  of  the  win- 
dows in  our  London  meeting  house  and  to  have  the  Government  it- 
self consider  the  question  whether  they  will  let  a  "Mormon"  preach 
in  that  fair  land ;  this  people  has  a  death  rate  nearly  20  per  cent  lower 
than  the  great  life  insurance  companies.  "By  their  fruits  ye  shall 
know  them."  I  am  at  the  defiance  of  the  world  to  prove  that  there 
can  be  found  in  any  land  or  in  any  clime  a  community  that  by  their 
fruits  of  honesty,  of  integrity,  of  virtue,  of  sobriety,  of  all  these  things 
that  go  to  make  a  good  community — can  show  anything  better  by 
their  vital  statistics  than  can  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  rejoice  indeed, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  knowledge  that  we  have  that  we  are 
serving  God  and  that  we  are  keeping  His  commandments  and  that 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  15 


sooner  or  later  those  who  know  not  the  Truth,  if  they  will  investi- 
gate our  message  and  will  investigate  the  record  we  have  made,  will 
have  to  put  the  stamp  of  honesty,  of  sobriety,  of  integrity,  of  love  of 
fellow-men  and  of  love  of  God  and  the  love  of  country  upon  the 
Latter-day  Saints. 

MISSIONARY  ACTIVITIES 


Number  on  foreign  missions    1,688 

Missionaries  laboring  in  the  stakes  of  Zion    2,046 

Books  of  Mormon  and  standard  Church  works  distributed   in  stakes  and 

missions    252,879 

Gospel  tracts  distributed  in  stakes  and  missions    8,746,793 

Gospel  meetings  held  in  stakes  and  missions    171,049 

Temple  Work 

Baptisms,  endowments,  and  sealing  for  living  and  dead  performed  in  the 
temp'es  in  the  year  1921    646,410 


Changes  Since  October  Conference 
New  Stakes  Organized: — Lethbridge  stake. 

New  Stake  Presidents :— President  Hugh  B.  Brown,  Lethbridge  fgtake ; 
President  Lewis  R.  Anderson,  So.  Sanpete  stake;  President  James  W.  Funk, 
Benson  stake;  President  John  A.  Beckstrand,  Millard  stake. 

New  Wards  Organized: — Moffatt  ward,  Roosevelt  stake;  Grand  View 
ward,  Utah  stake;  Solomonville  ward),  St.  Joseph  stake;  McCornick  ward, 
Millard  stake;  Brigham  City  Sixth  ward,  Box  Elder  stake;  Cedron  ward, 
Teton  stake. 

Bishops  Who  Have  Died: — Bishop  Gilbert  Taysome,  Afton  So.  ward,  Star 
Valley  stake ;  Bishop  Frank  Stanley,  Poplar  Grove  ward,  Pioneer  stake ; 
Bishop  John  W.  Ginger,  Labelle  ward,  Rigby  stake;  Bishop  Thomas  H. 
Blackburn,  Brigham  City  Second  ward,  Box  Elder  stake;  a  former  Bishop, 
Thomas  R,  Cutler,  of  Lehi. 

DEATH  OF  WM.  W.  RITER 

We  have  lost  by  death  the  chairman  of  our  auditing  committee, 
William  W.  Riter,  the  Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Regents  of  the 
University,  a  pioneer,  one  of  the  stalwart,  faithful,  diligent  men  of 
our  Church.  The  last  time  I  heard  him  preach,  he  delivered  a  ser- 
mon, which  I  sincerely  regret  was  not  reported.  He  announced  that 
for  some  fifteen  or  twenty  years,  as  I  remember  it,  he  had  religiously, 
once  a  year,  read  the  Book  of  Mormon  through ;  and  he  said,  to  his 
mind,  it  contained  more  inspiring  and  uplifting  doctrine  than  any 
book  that  had  ever  been  published.  He  said  he  was  at  the  defiance 
of  any  man  to  find  anything  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  from  cover  to 
cover,  to  offend ;  that  everything  taught  was  uplifting  to  man- 
kind. He  stated  that  he  loved  the  contents  of  that  book  with  all  his 
heart.  He  bore  a  wonderful  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  work; 
and  of  his  intimate  acquaintance  and  knowedge  of  the  integrity 
of  the  men,  from  Brigham  Young  down  to  the  present  time  who  had 
stood  at  the  head  of  the  Church.  He  was  only  a  boy  when  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  was  martyred,  but  he  knew  him;  he  came  here  as  a 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


boy;  he  was  one  of  the  stalwarts  of  the  business  world  in  Utah.  We 
mourn  his  loss. 

RETURN  OF  ELDER  DAVID  O.   MCKAY  FROM   CIRCLING  THE  GLOBE 

I  rejoice  in  this  wonderful  gathering.  I  rejoice  in  the  knowledge 
which  I  possess  that  we  are  engaged  in  the  work  of  the  living  God. 
I  rejoice  in  the  fact  that  Brother  McKay  is  with  us  today.  Brother 
McKay  has  circled  the  globe  since  he  was  last  at  a  conference — has 
visited  our  missions  in  nearly  every  part  of  the  world,  and  has  re- 
turned, as  every  missionary  does  return  who  goes  out  to  proclaim 
this  gospel  and  comes  in  contact  with  the  people  of  the  world  and 
with  all  the  varieties  of  faiths  of  the  world,  with  increased  light, 
knowledge  and  testimony  regarding  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which 
we  are  engaged. 

THANKFULLNESS    AND    CAUSES    FOR  REJOICING 

I  thank  God  for  the  knowledge  that  I  have  that  He  lives.  I 
thank  God  for  the  knowledge  I  have  that  Jesus  Christ  is  thd  Reedenier 
of  the  world.  I  thank  God  for  the  knowledge  that  I  possess  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living  God,  and  that 
this  gospel,  commonly  called  "Mormonism"  is  in  very  deed  the  plan 
of  life  and  salvation.  I  thank  the  Lord  that  I  know  that  the  souls  of 
men  are  precious  in  the  sight  of  God,  and  that  no  other 
people  upon  all  the  earth  are  so  ready,  so  willing,  so  anx- 
ious, as  the  Latter-day  Saints  are,  to  proclaim  and  spread  the 
gospel  so  that  those  who  embrace  it  may  go  back  and  dwell  eternally  in 
the  presence  of  God,  our  heavenly  Father.  We,  as  a  people,  have  cause 
to  rejoice  because  of  the  rich  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  of  the  living  God 
upon  the  people  all  over  the  wide  world,  who  have  embraced  the  re- 
stored gospel.  I  do  pray  with  all  the  power,  with  all  the  fervor  ol 
my  soul,  that  every  Latter-day  Saint  who  knows  that  God  lives,  who 
knows  that  Jesus  Christ  is  our  Redeemer,  who  knows  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet,  may  live  the  gospel,  may  proclaim  it  by  their 
works  of  honesty,  of  integrity,  of  devotion,  of  a  prayerful,  upright 
life,  that  those  who,  know  not  the  truth,  by  our  example  and  our  works 
may  be  led  to  investigate  the  message  that  we  have  to  bear.  This  is 
my  prayer  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  sacred  solo,  music  by  Evan  Stephens,  was  sung  by  Jessie  Evans, 
entitled  "Be  with  me,  Lord." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  are  honored  with  the  presence  this  morning  of  Professor 
Thomas  Nixon  Carver,  of  Harvard  University,  President  Walter 
Ernest  Clark,  of  the  University  of  Nevada,  and  President  Charles  A. 
Lory,  of  the  Colorado  Agricultural  College.  I  am  sure  we  will  be 
delighted  to  hear  a  few  words  from  these  gentlemen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


17 


THOMAS  NIXON  CARVER 

{Of  Harvard  University) 

I  never  expected  to  have  such  an  honor  as  this  in  my  life.  I  have 
been  in  this  community  a  number  of  times  and  I  have  frequently  thought 
that  here  was  the  best  place  in  the  world  to  study  the  science  and  the 
art  of  nation-building  in  the  field.  My  subject  is  Political  Economy, 
sometimes  called  the  science  of  statesmanship.  Some  things  pertain- 
ing to  this  subject  we  can  get  out  of  books,  but  it  seems  to  me  that  here 
is  the  one  place  in  the  world  where  we  can  see  in  operation,  in  the  field 
itself,  the  processes  going  on  under  which  a  great  nation  is  built.  If 
"By  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them,"  as  your  President  has  said,  the 
"Mormons"  must  be  a  great  people,  for  their  fruits  are  good.  I  have 
not  only  been  impressed,  in  several  visits,  by  what  is  to  be  seen  in 
this  immediate  neighborhood.  It  has  also  been  my  privilege  to  visit 
some  of  the  smaller  communities  in  the  southern  part  of  the  state  and 
some  in  central  Idaho ;  and  in  the  small  communities,  as  well  as  in  the 
large,  I  have  seen  in  operation  the  snence  and  the  art  of  community- 
building,  which  is  nation-building  in  miniature,  and  everywhere  it  has 
my  unbounded  admiration. 

I  did  not  know  what  I  was  going  to  say  when  I  got  up.  I  have 
often  had  this  in  my  mind,  and  I  am  very  glad,  now  that  it  is  over  with, 
that  I  have  had  the  opportunity  of  saying  it.  Though  I  was  very  much 
scared  at  first,  I  am  very  glad  that  I  have  had  the  privilege  of  saying 
what  I  have  often  thought. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

President  Clark  of  the  University  of  Nevada,  our  next  door 
neighbor.  We  like  to  be  on  good  terms  with  our  neighbors;  that  is 
good  citizenship. 

WALTER  E.  CLARK 

(President  of  the  University  of  Nevada) 

The  world  has  made  much  advance  in  mechanical  things,  during 
our  recorded  race  history.  It  has  made  relatively  small  'advance 
in  spiritual,  things.  Your  fathers  in  a  marvelous  pioneer  pilgrimage 
came  into  this  valley,  and  with  their  hands  builded  here  a  perfect  temple, 
that  the  souls  might  open  in  this  temple  towards  the  spiritual  power, 
and,  perhaps,  in  larger  and  larger  measure,  be  imbued  with 
that  power  from  above.  It  is  my  belief  and  strong  hope  that  in  the 
years  just  ahead  men  are  going  to  illuminate  life  in  spiritual  terms; 
that  just  as  they  have,  within  these  twenty-five  years,  on  the  mechan- 
ical side,  touched  that  marvelous  thing  we  call  radium  and  learned  that 
it  gives  fifty  million  times  the  energy  of  other  substances  science  has 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


been  handling,  so  there  lies  within  us,  if  we  will  but  open  our  souls  and 
receive  the  endowment  that  freely  has  always  been  offered,  many,  many, 
many  times  the  spirit  power  men  have  known.  My  impress  from  the 
hours  I  have  had  in  your  city  is  that  this  people  are  holding  their  souls 
open,  and  the  great  Giver  of  life  and  power  will  answer  their  prayers. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

President  Charles  A.  Lory,  of  the  Agricultural  College  of  the  State 
of  Colorado,  our  neighbor  to  the  East. 

CHARLES  A.  LORY 

(President  of  the  Agricultural  College  of  Colorado) 

Friends  and  neighbors  of  Utah,  this  is  not  the  first  time  I  have  had 
the  privilege  of  being  in  this  wonderful  Tabernacle  of  yours,  but  it  is 
the  first  time  I  have  ever  had  the  honor  and  privilege  of  speaking  to  so 
many  of  you  at  this  place.  We  were  entertained  here  in  a  splendid  way 
when  the  Rotarians  were  here  about  three  years  ago  ;  and  all  the  memo- 
ries we  have  of  you  people,  of  your  Church,  of  your  Tabrnacle,  of  this 
wonderful  city,  are  altogether  good  and  on  the  positive  side.  Those  of 
us  who  are  charged  with  the  work  of  education  and  with  the  work  of 
building  forward  our  civilization,  cannot  help  but  admire  the  work  that 
you  are  doing.  As  a  young  man,  it  was  my  privilege,  first,  to  get 
acquainted  with  folks  like  you  in  Northern  Wyoming ;  and  as  a  young 
man,  I  must  confess  that  I  carried  all  the  prejudice  of  certain  young 
men  regarding  you  and  your  beliefs.  In  all  fairness  I  must  say  that 
those  prejudices  were  altogether  wrong,  that  I  found  you  altogether 
different,  and  so  far  as  my  experience  goes  with  the  pioneer  "Mormon" 
citizens  of  northern  Wyoming,  altogether  good.  In  all  fairness,  also, 
I  must  confess  that  the  training  I  there  got  has  helped  me,  as  much  as 
any  course  I  ever  took,  in  trying  to  carry  out  my  duties  as  an  educator 
in  your  neighboring  State  to  the  East.  No  one  can  be  here  at  a  gather- 
ing like  this  without  being  impressed  with  the  wonder  of  what  it  means, 
to  every  community  here  represented. 

I  listened  with  interest  to  President  Grant's  statement  about 
your  sugar  industry.  We  also  have  a  sugar  industry,  but,  President 
Grant,  ours  was  not  as  fortunate  as  yours,  because  I  am  afraid  our 
farmers  are  going  to  lose  heavily  throueh  the  loss  of  one  of  their  inde- 
pendent companies.  I  have  listened  to  the  report  of  the  development  of 
your  work  and  of  your  members,  and  certainly  everyone  here  has  cause 
to  be  gratified  for  the  progress  that  you  are  making. 

We  are  privileged  to  work  with  the  "Mormon"  settlers  in  Southern 
and  Southwes'ern  Colorado.  We  know  their  worth  and  we  always  go 
to  those  sections  with  a  great  deal  of  r nthusiasm,  because  we  know  what 
is  being  done.   I  feel  that  the  time  is  here  when,  as  President  Clark  has 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


19 


said,  we  must  build  spirituality.  The  curve  that  represents  the  growth 
of  spirituality  is  rather  a  flat  one ;  the  curve  that  represents  the  increase 
in  wealth,  the  increase  in  material  knowledge,  is  rather  a 
steep  one;  and,  somehow,  we  must  learn  to  do  as  you  are 
doing;  carry  our  religion  into  our  day's  work — not  religion  on  one 
day  only,  but  religion  on  seven  days,  and  every  hour  of  the  twenty- 
four.  I  count  it  a  privilege  to  add  my  testimony  to  the  work  that  you 
are  doing.  I  count  it  a  privilege  that  I  am  permitted,  as  a  laborer  in 
the  vineyard,  to  carry  forward  the  work  of  education.  I  count  it  a  priv- 
ilege to  tell  you  that  your  people  in  Colorado  are  doing  their 
part  well.  They  are  good  neighbors  and  they  are  helping  us  in  a  work 
that  we  count  highly  important,  a  piece  of  work  that  you  are  doing 
and  doing  well  in  Utah,  namely,  supplanting  the  "little  red  school 
house"  by  a  better  school  house,  usually  a  consolidated  school,  where 
better  opportunities  can  be  given  to  the  country  children,  'a  work  that 
has  placed,  in  (he  last  ten  years,  something  like  thirty-six  thousand 
children  in  consolidated  schools  and  brought  high  school  facilities  to 
something  like  six  thousand  children  who  had  no  such  school  facilities 
before;  and  best  of  all,  a  work  that  is  resulting  in  the  formation  of  a 
community  church  where  men  and  women  of  many  different  sects  and 
faiths  could  gather  in  one  place  under  one  organization,  to  worship 
God.    May  your  work  prosper. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

These  gentlemen  have  another  appointment.  We  will  pardon  them 
if  they  say  goodby.  We  are  very  grateful  for  the  very  spledid  com- 
plimentary things  they  have  said  of  us,  and  we  hope  that  we  will  have 
the  pleasure  of  welcoming  them  back  here  at  no  far  distant  date ;  and 
certainly  I  hope  that  I  may,  some  day,  have  the  privilege  of  meeting 
these  people  in  their  own  homes. 

ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 

(President  of  the  Western  States  Mission.) 

One  of  our  distinguished  educators  stated  that  he  was  frightened. 
I  said  to  my  co-laborers  that  at  this  conference  I  would  be  ready  for 
almost  anything  that  might  happen,  because  I  had  a  similar  experience 
to  this  one  at  the  October  conference,  last  year. 

I  feel  very  keenly  my  weakness  in  occupying  this  position  this 
morning.  However,  I  rejoice  in  the  privilege  of  being  present  with 
you  and  listening  to  the  opening  address  of  our  President.  It  was 
just  what  we  need.  Recently  in  our  mission,  the  Western  States,  we 
have  been  told  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
was  a  great  commercial  institution,  engaged  in  big  business  enterprises 
to  the  exclusion  of  spiritual  matters.  You  know  that  is  not  true.  A 
gentleman  in  Denver,  whom  the  papers  said  was  an  authority  on  the 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


"Mormon"  question  stated  recently  that  all  of  the  tithing  of  the  Church 
had  been  hoarded  until  it  controlled  four  hundred  millions  of  dollars, 
and  that  is  was  able  to  shake  Wall  Stret  to  the  very  center  (laughter). 
You  know  how  true  that  is. 

I  am  very  glad  President  Grant  made  the  statement  he  did  with 
reference  to  the  beet  sugar  industry,  and'  the  part  played  by  the 
Church  in  extending  its  credit,  to  assist  this  worthy  enterprise  during 
the  recent  financial  troubles.  We  hear  of  it  in  our  neighboring  states 
to  the  east  of  us,  Wyoming,  in  Colorado,  in  Nebraska,  and  in  South 
Dakota.  Some  of  our  good  friends  are  opposed  to  the  Church  be- 
cause of  its  activity  in  these  enterprises ;  but  I  am  grateful  to  belong 
to  an  organization  that  looks  after  the  temporal  as  Well  as  the  spiritual 
interests  of  its  members. 

I  am  very  grateful  also  for  the  testimony  that  has  been  borne 
by  the  President  of  the  Church  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  wor- 
shiping God,  and  that  they  have  an  abiding  faith  in  the  divine  mis- 
sion of  Jesus  Christ ;  that  they  believe  him  to  be  the  very  Son  of  the 
living  God.  We  have  many  in  our  field  of  labor  who  deny  these 
things.  Some  of  them  are  making  the  statement  that  Christ,  the  Son 
of  God,  never  claimed  divinity  for  himself,  that  in  everv  sense  of  the 
word  he  was  man,  with  a  human  mind,  with  human  intellect,  and  with 
human  will ;  and  when  one  quotes  to  them  from  the  gospel  of  St. 
John,  where  he  declared  Himself  to  be  the  Messiah,  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world,  thev  will  tell  you  it  cannot  be  accepted  because  it  is  not 
well  authenticated  history,  and  is  not  corroborated  by  the  synoptic 
gospels,  Matthew,  Mark  and  Luke.  I  am  thankful  for  the  faith  that 
has  come  into  the  lives  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  who  have  the  witness 
of  the  Spirit  that  these  things  are  true,  that  the  Redeemer  of  the  world 
did  make  a  supreme  sacrifice  on  Calvary  for  the  salvation  of  the  hu- 
man  family,  and  that  He  is,  in  every  sense!  of  the  word,  the  Son  of  th« 
living  God ;  that  He  was  more  than  philosopher,  more  than  a  teacher 
of  great  moral  truths,  that  He  was  what  He  professed  to  be:  the  Son 
of  the  living  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  We  know  that  His 
is  the  only  name  given  under  heaven  by  and  through  which  salvation 
can  come  to  the  children  of  men. 

I  have  often  wondered  whv  these  men.  these  learned  men,  many 
of  them  professed  ministers  of  the  gospel,  deny  the  oower  there  is  in 
the  gospel  and  deny  the  sonship  of  the  Redeemer.  I  am  convinced  it 
is  because  they  have  not  the  witness  of  the  Holv  Spirit.  The  Savior 
said.  "If  I  bear  witness  of  myself,  my  witness  is  not  true.  There  is 
another  that  beareth  witness  of  me ;  and  I  know  that  the  witness  which 
He  witnesseth  of  me  is  true.  Ye  sent  unto  John  and  He  bare  witness 
of  the  truth.  *  *  *  But  I  have  greater  witness  than  that  of  John ;  for 
the  works  which  the  Father  hath  given  me  to  finish,  the  same  works 
that  I  do,  bear  witness  of  me,  that  the  Father  hath  sent  me.  And 
the  Father  himself,  which  hath  sent  me,  hath  borne  witness  of  me." 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 


21 


We  know  this  witness  is  true,  through  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
Remember  the  words  of  the  Apostle  Paul,  writing  to  the  Corinthian 
Saints  (1  Cor.  12:)  "Now  concerning  spiritual  gifts,  brethren,  I 
would  not  have  you  ignorant.  *  *  *  Wherefore  I  give  you  to  under- 
stand, that  no  man  speaking  by  the  Spirit  of  God  calleth  Jesus  ac- 
cursed :  and  that  no  man  can  say  that  Jesus  is  the  Lord,  but  by  the 
Holy  Ghost."  The  w,orld  is  without  this  witness,  they  deny  the 
power  by  which  they  may  know  these  things.  That  is  what  was  said 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  by  the  Redeemer  on  the  occasion  of  the 
first  great  vision  and  revelation  in  this  dispensation :  the  creeds  of 
men  have  a  form  of  godliness  but  deny  the  power  thereof.  The 
Savior  said  to  his  disciples:  "If  ye  love  me,  keep  my  commandments. 
And  I  will  pray  the  Father,  and  He  shall  give  you  another  Comforter, 
that  he  may  abide  with  you  forever  ;  even  the  Spirit  of  truth,  whom 
(he  world  cannot  receive,  because  it  seeth  him  not,  neither  knoweth 
him ;  but  ye  know  him ;  for  he  dwelleth  with  you,  and  shall  be  in 
you." 

Who  are  the  world?  I  answer  they  who  have  not  put  on  Christ 
by  baptism.  Call  to  mind  the  statement  that  was  made  by  the  Apostle 
Peter  when  he  appeared  before  the  chief  priests  who  had  thrown  him 
into  prison  for  speaking  unto  the  people  "all  the  words  of  this  life," 
healing  their  sick,  and  adding  multitudes  to  the  Church.  In  answer 
to  their  question:  "Did  not  we  straightly  command  you  that  ye  should 
not  teach  in  this  name?  and,  behold,  ye  have  filled  Jerusalem  with 
your  doctrine,  and  intend  to  bring  this  man's  blood  upon  us.  Then 
Peter  and  the  other  apostles  answered  and  said,  We1  ought  to  obey  God 
rather  than  men.  The  God  of  our  fathers  raised  up  Jesus,  whom  ye 
slew  and  hanged  on  a  tree.  Him  hath  God  exalted  with  His  right  hand 
to  be  a  Prince  and  a  Savior,  for  to  give  repentance  to  Israel,  and 
forgiveness  of  sins. 

"And  we  are  his  witnesses  of  these  things ;  and  so  is  also  the  Holy 
Ghost,  whom  God  hath  given  to  them  that  obey  Him." 

I  thank  the  Lord  that  this  witness  has  come  into  the  lives  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  that  we  are  not  as  the  world.  We  have  come 
out  of  the  world,  and  the  Lord  has  blessed  us  with  a  testimony  of  the 
truth ;  the  greatest  gift  of  God  to  man. 

May  God  add  his  blessings,  that  we  may  have  a  time  of  rejoic- 
ing in  all  the  sessions  of  this  conference,  that  we  may  go  from  here 
with  a  full  determination  to  more  perfectly  serve  God  and  keep  His 
commandmen' s,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Do  what  is  right,  the  day- 
dawn  is  breaking." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Heber  C.  Austin,  President 
of  the  Bingham  stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

At  2  o'clock  President  Heber  J.  Grant  opened  the  meeting  by 
announcing  that  the  choir  and  congregation  would  sing,  "Guide  us,  U 
Thou  great  Jehovah." 

After  singing,  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Frank  Y.  Taylor, 
President  of  the  Granite  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  and  congregation  then  sang  the  hymn,  "High  on  the 
mountain  top." 

PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 

I  feel  very  thankful  today  for  the  many  blessings  bestowed  upon 
me.  In  the  first  place  I  thank  the  Lord  for  preserving  my  lite  and 
giving  me  the  opportunity  of  gathering  with  the  Saints  in  this  confer- 
erence,  especially  that  I  had  the  pleasure  and  privilege  of  listening  to 
the  discourse  delivered  by  the  President  of  the  Church — so  timely 
and  with  so  much  fervor  and  strength  of  body  and  of  spirit.  I  rejoice 
in  the  progress  that  President  Grant  has  made  since  he  was  chosen  and 
set  apart  as  the  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

I  am  thankful  to  a  large  number  of  my  friends,  whom  I  have  not 
had  the  privilege  of  communicating  with  since  the  celebration  of  my 
ninetieth  birth-day,  when  so  large  a  gathering  met  in  this  house  and 
paid  me  so  many  gracious  compliments,  and  for  the  letters  of  congratu- 
lation that  I  have  received  from  all  points  of  the  compass,  from  differ- 
ent lands,  from  friends — I  won't  say  foes — but  persons  not  connected 
with  the  Church,  many  of  them  to  my  great  surprise  and  all  to  my 
satisfaction,  and  I  take  this  public  opportunity  of  returning  thanks  to 
those  who  have  conimunicated  with  me  on  this  matter. 

The  Lord  has  been  good  to  me  all  my  days  and  especially  since 
he  opened  the  eyes  of  my  understanding  so^  that  I  was  able  to  see 
the  truth  and  the  beauty  of  his  great  latter-day  work — a  blessing  that 
does  not  now  come  to  all  people.  It  will,  I  presume,  in  the  eternities 
that  lie  before  us,  when  the  time  comes  that  every  knee  will  bow  and 
every  tongue  confess  that  Jesus  of  Nazareth  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of 
the  living  God,  and  that  willingly  and  freely  of  their  own  choice  and 
to  the  glory  of  our  heavenly  Father. 

THE  ELEMENTS  ETERNAL 

The  light  of  the  Lord  shines  always,  even  in  the  darkness,  although 
the  darkness  comprehendeth  it  not,  but  there  is  a  light  that  proceeds 
from  the  presence  of  the  Son  of  Righteousness  and  goes  throubout  all  the 
immensity  of  space.  Of  course  it  cannot  "fill"  space,  because  space 
cannot  be  filled,  as  there  is  no  outside  to  it,  but  throuhgout  "the  im- 
mensity of  space,"  the  Lord  has  revealed,  that  this  light  that  com*eth 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  23 


from  Him,  which  is  "in  all  things  and  through  all  things,  and  round 
about  all  things  and  is  the  law  by  which  all  things  are  governed,"  and 
by  which  he  created  all  things,  both  spiritual  and  temporal,  using  the 
word  temporal  after  the  manner  of  our  speech,  for  all  things  are  eternal 
to  Him  and  therefore  spiritual  is  not  always  in  force. 

Everything  that  is  organized,  of  course  had  a  beginning,  and  so,  in 
the  nature  of  things,  its  beginning  was  when  it  was  organized,  but  the 
beginning  of  all  substance  is  nowhere  and  is  not.  The  elements  of 
all  things  spiritual  and  physical,  are  eternal  in  their  nature  and  our 
bodies  which  had  a  beginning  when  they  were  organized,  when  they 
were  born  into  this  world,  as  far  as  the  body  is  concerned,  had  a  begin- 
ning ;  but,  according  to  the  word  of  the  Lord,  the  essence  or  substance, 
whether  we  call  it  spiritual  or  physical,  is  eternal  in  its  nature,  as  are1 
light  and  truth  and  power  and  justice;  all  those  eternal  verities  had 
no  beginning  and  certainly  will  never  have  an  end,  but  they  come  to 
beings  when  they  are  ready  to  receive  them,  according  to  their  organiza- 
tion. Jesus  of  Nazareth  tells  us  in  his  own  words  that  he  was  "in  the 
beginning  with  the  Father,"  not  as  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  not  as  the  Son  of 
the  Virgin  Mary,  but  as  the  First-born  of  every  creature,  as  he  is  named 
by  his  ancient  Apostles.  He  was  in  the  beginning  with  the  Father, 
was  "the  First-born,"  and  we  also,  He  says,  "were  in  the  beginning  with 
the  Father ;  that  which  is  spirit,"  that  part  of  us  which  is  spirit,  wjas  in 
the  beginnning  with  God.  We  had  our  beginning  as  persons,  as  indi- 
viduals, as  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God,  when  we  were  organized 
or  created  or  begotten,  whichever  term  you  like  to  use. 

WE  SHOULD  NOT  GO  BEYOND  WHAT  THE  LORD  HAS  REVEALED 

Now,  all  these  things  ought  to  be  very  plain  to  us  from  what  we 
have  learned  by  revelation  from  God,  and  we  need  not  try  to  go  further 
back  than  the  period  spoken  of  in  the  revelations  of  God,  and  speculate 
about  ourselves  and  our  fellows.  We  are  living  in  a  time,  in  our 
Church,  of  a  great  deal  of  speculation,  of  imagination,  of  desire  to  go 
beyond  what  the  Lord  has  revealed,  both  as  to  that  which  precedes 
our  present  state  and  that  which  is  to  follow  us  in  our  future  condition, 
but  the  Lord  stands  in  our  midst,  and  he  is  our  Father,  he  is  the  God 
that  we  worship.  The  very  first  article  of  our  faith,  as  made  known  and 
arranged  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  is  that : 

"We  believe  in  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  and  in  his  Son,  Jesus 
Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost."  This  is  a  simple  statement  of  the  per- 
sons in  whom  we  believe  and  whom  we  revere  as  we  are  commanded  to 
do.  God'  our  eternal  Father  is  the  Father  of  Jesus  Christ  and  is  the 
Father  of  Adam,  or  rather  Michael,  the  name  of  that  person  before  he 
came  in  the  flesh.  There  is  nothing  new  in  what  I  am  saying;  it  is 
all  very  old  to  me,  and  to  members  of  the  Church  who  have  investigated 
the  latter-day  work  from  the  revelations  of  God.  Now,  this  ought 
to  be  clear  to  all  our  minds,  and  yet,  among  some  of  the  classes 
in  the  Priesthood  and  in  our  Sunday  school  classes,  and  other  organiza- 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


tions,  some  disputes  arise.  There  shouldn't  be  any;  there  is  no  need 
for  it.  I  would  not  try  to  limit  the  thoughts  of  men,  nor  their  progress 
in  understanding  the  things  of  God  and  the  things  of  man. 
I  believe  in  eternal  progression,  but  when  the  Lord  has  revelaed 
something  very  plain  and  simple  to  us,  we  should  take  that  for  granted 
and  let  that  be  sufficient  for  us  until  he  reveals  something  further. 

WE  ARE  IN  THE  MIDST  OF  THE  DAY  OF  REVELATION 

I  do  not  mean  to  say  that  the  day  of  revelation  is  past-  We  are  in  the 
midst  of  it ;  we  have  the  spirit  of  revelation  in  the  Church.  It  was  by 
that  spirit  that  we  heard  that  splendid  discourse  this  morning,  by 
which  it  was  spoken  and  by  which  we  understood  it.  I  hope 
all  of  us  did  understand.  I  hope  that  all  who  are  here 
this  afternoon  were  hire  this  morning  and  heard  that  dis- 
course, and  if  not,  I  hope  that  when  it  is  published  they  will  all  read 
it  and  understand  it.  Jesus  taught  that  lesson,  you  know,  when'  he  was 
on  the  earth.  "Whoso  readeth  let  him  understand,"  and  we  Latter-day 
Saints  should  all  understand  the  things  of  God  alike  as  he  has  revealed 
them.  We  may  not  have  the  same  degree  of  light  upon  these  matters, 
but  we  should  have  the  same  light  and  come  to  the  same  understanding 
in  all  things  that  are  essential ;  and  one  of  the  essentials  of  our  faith 
is  that  we  believe  in  God,  the  eternal  Father,  and  it  is  He  whom  we 
worship;  it  is  to  Him  that  we  pay  deference  and  reverence,  and  all 
revelation,  whether  it  comes  through  Jesus  Christ  or  from  any  of  the 
prophets  of  God,  comes  from  Him.  Sometimes  men  are  endowed  with 
authority  to  use  His  name  and  speak  for  Him,  and  Jesus  Christ  is  one 
of  them,  He  is  "The  Word." 

GOD  THE  ETERNAL  FATHER  OVER  ALL 

President  Grant  quoted  this  morning  the  word  of  the  Father  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  in  the  grove,  when  he  prayed  to  God  that  he  might 
learn  which  was  the  true  religion.  The  Father,  turning,  said,  "This 
is  my  beloved  Son,  hear  Him."  That  is  the  word  of  God  to  all  the 
world  and  was  so  from  the  beginning;  the  word  comes  through  the 
Son,  sometimes  from  Him  through  living  prophets,  sometimes  by  the 
mouths  of  angels,  and  when  it  comes  in  that  way,  authority  is  bestowed 
to  use  the  sacred  name  of  the  Savior  and  of  the  Eternal  Father.  One 
of  the  ancient  prophets  whose  writings  are  in  the  New  Testament,  said, 
"If  any  man  cometh  unto  God,  he  must  believe  that  he  is,  and  that  he  is 
a  revvarder  of  those  who  diligently  seek  him."  That  is  quite  an 
important  point.  He  is  a  being,  a  personality,  an  individual,  as  we  were 
told  this  morning,  and  He  made  man  in  His  own  image,  and  likeness 
That  is  very  clear  and  plain  to  us  if  we  will  take  it  as  it  stands.  We 
are  in  the  image  and  likeness  of  God  the  Father,  and  Jesus  Christ 
was  His  express  image  and  likeness,  the  brightness  of  His  glory  and 
the  express  image  of  His  person.   Sometimes,  in  any  family,  there  is  one 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 


25 


person  in  the  express  image  of  the  father  or  the  mother.  The  relation- 
ship between  him  and  the  first  parent  on  earth,  the  father  of  our  bodies 
— Adam  is  our  father — can  be  read  in  the  107th  section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants.  We  are  told  there  that  a  few  years  before  his  death, 
Adam  gathered  together  his  posterity,  who  were  in  the  faith,  (some  of 
them  went  out  of  the  faith)  but  all  those  who  were  in  the  Lord  and 
were  high  priests,  met  in  the  Valley  of  Adam-ondi-Ahman,  and  Adam 
arose  in  the  midst  of  the  congregation  and  blessed  his  children  and 
predicted  what  would  befall  them  to  their  latest  generations,  and  the 
Lord  appeared  and  He  blessed  Adam  and  said,  "See,  I  have  placed 
thee  at  the  head ;  a  multitude  of  nations  shall  come  of  thee,  and  thou 
art  a  prince  over  them  forever."  And  they  called  him  Michael,  the 
prince,  the  archangel.  That  was  his  station  before  he  came  here.  When 
he  came  here  as  Adam,  he  was  the  son  of  God,  and  God  was  over  him 
and  he,  Adam,  prayed  to  the  Eternal  Father  as  we  do.  I  merely 
mention  that  because  there  are  some  disputes  in  regard  to  the  person- 
ality of  Adam  before  he  came  into  the  body.  The  Lord  said  he  was 
Michael,  the  archangel,  and  He,  the  Father,  set  him  here  at  the  head  of 
His  race  to  which  we  belong.  He  is  "our  father,  Adam,"  and  as  Adam's 
body  was  of  the  dust  of  the  earth,  this  earth  on  which  we  live,  it  had  to 
return  to  dust  because  of  his  transgression. 

THE  REDEEMER'S  NAME  IS  JESUS  CHRIST 

Now,  in  regard  to  the  second  individual  spoken  of  in  the  first 
article  as  the  Son  of  God,  Jesus  Christ.  Some  of  us  have  adopted  the 
habit  of  saying  "the  Christ  , "He  is  all  th  at,  but  He  is  named  Jesus  Christ ; 
that  is  His  name.  In  the  18th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
the  Savior  there,  Himself  reveals  to  us  that  His  name,  the  name  that 
was  given  to  Him  of  the  Father,  is  Jesus  Christ.  He  is  the  anointed ; 
He  is  the  Redeemer;  He  is  the  Savior ;  but  His  name  is  Jesus  Christ ;  and 
when  you  say  "in  the  name  of  Jesus"  you  only  use  half  of  His  name. 
Now  just  understand  that  wc  are  commanded  of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ, 
(o  do  all  things  in  His  name  and  that  is  the  name  given  Him  of  the 
Father  and  "the  only  name  under  heaven  whereby  man  can  be  saved." 

This  is  what  we  preach  to  all  the  world,  go  out  in  our  missions 
to  preach  to  all  the  world,  that  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  the  Son  of  the  Virgin 
Mary,  was  the  Son  of  God  in  the  flesh  and  that  he  was  also  the  Son 
of  God,  the  First-born  in  the  spirit,  and  his  name  is  to  be  preached  and 
the  name  is  Jesus  Christ.  A  great  many  of  us,  when  we  pray  and  are  a 
little  careless,  say,  "In  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen."  You  often  hear  it  at 
the  table  when  you  sit  down  and  hear  a  blessing  pronounced  upon  the 
food  ;  it  has  come  to  be  quite  common.  I  merely  refer  to  this,  which 
you  may  think  is  a  very  small  matter,  but  a  great  deal  of  importance 
is  attached  to  it  by  Jesus  Christ,  Himself,  and  you  will  find  all  through 
the  first  revelations  given  to  the  Church,  He  says,  "Listen  to  the  voice 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


of  Jesus  Christ,  the  great  I  Am,  whose  arm  of  mercy  has  atoned  for 
your  sins,"  etc. 

WE  ARE  TO  PERFORM  ALL  ORDINANCES  IN  THE  NAME  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 

When  we  baptize,  we  are  to  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
by  his  authority ;  and  when  we  ask  a  blessing  on  the  bread  or  the  water, 
in  the  sacrament  of  the  Lord's  supper,  we  are  to  use  the  name  Jesus 
Christ;  and  when  we  ordain  persons  to  some  office  in  the  Priesthood, 
they  are  to  be  ordained  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ ;  we  do  it  by  His 
authority,  for  He  is  at  the  head,  and  the  word  of  the  Lord  God  of  hosts 
is  to  all  the  world,  "Hear  Him."  "This  is  my  beloved  Son,  hear  Him." 
If  all  the  world  today  were  in  the  humor  and  willing  to  hear  Him,  He 
could  speak  the  word  which  would  settle  all  their  difficult  problems ; 
He  would  bring  the  nations  together ;  He  would  do  away  with  war  and 
conflict  of  all  kind's ;  He  would  establish  peace,  for  He  is  the  prince 
of  peace,  and  His  rule  will  be  the  rule  of  peace,  and  the  time  will  come 
when  He  will  ride,  as  the  prophet  said,  "From  the  river  to  the  ends  of 
the  earth." 

THE  WORD  OF  THE  FATHER  TO  US  IS  TO  HEAR  HIS  SON  JESUS  CHRIST 

So,  hear  it,  O  ye  Latter-day  Saints,  the  Word  of  the  Father  to  you 
is,  "Hear  Him,  the  Son."  Take  the  revelations  which  He  has  given 
to  the  Church ;  a  great  many  of  them  are  bound  up  in  the  book  called 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  a  new  edition  of  which  has  been  issued, 
and  has  made  a  very  fine  arrangement  of  those  revelations,  and  I  would 
that  everybody  would  study  it,  get  acquainted  with  the  things  that  God 
has  revealed,  and  they  have  all  come  through  Jesus  Christ.  He  is  our 
living  head  and  all  of  our  prophets  and  apostles  and  others  who  have 
authority  in  the  Church  are  under  His  direction,  and  under  His  authority 
they  act  and  preach  and  labor.  Lie  has  said  to  us  as  He  did  to  the  early 
apostles,  "Go  ye  into  all  the  world  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every 
creature.  He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized  shall  be  saved,  and  he  that 
believeth  not  shall  be  damned."  He  has  repeated  that  authority  in  these 
times  and  this  authority  rests  upon  all  the  elders  of  this  Church  who 
are  called  to  be  ministers  of  Jesus  Christ.  They  are  to  do  all  things 
in  His  name,  and  His  blessing  will  attend  what  you  do.  I  want  to  say 
to  you  that  there  is  virtue  in  that  name ;  the  evil  powers  tremble  at  the! 
sound  thereof ;  they  stand  rebuked  when  it  is  used  by  proper  authority 
and  they  flee  from  it.  "In  my  name  shall  ye  cast  out  devils ;  ye  shall 
speak  with  new  tongues ;  ye  shall  take  up  serpents ;  and  if  ye  drink 
any  deadly  thing  it  shall  not  hurt  you ;  ye  shall  lay  hands  on  the  sick 
and  they  shall  recover."  It  is  all  to  be  done  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  the  Redeemer,  the  Son  of  the  living  God  in  spirit  and  in  bodv. 

Brother  Knight  bore  testimony  concerning  Jesus,  in  this  regard, 
this  morning,  and  I  echo  it  and  say  amen  to  it.  I  have  been  engaged 
in  preaching  His  name  for  a  great  many  years,  and  during  all  that  time  I 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  IV.  PENROSE  27 


found  that  name  to  have  power  in  it,  power  in  it  for  good,  power  in  it 
to  rebuke  evil,  power  to  overcome  darkness  and  to  spread  light,  and  it 
carries  the  spirit  of  health  and  life  and  light  and  is  the  name  given  under 
heaven,  and  the  only  one,  whereby  man  can  be  saved.  Do  not  forget  it, 
brethren ;  but  use  it  with  prudence  and  with  faith  and  with  reverence. 
Men  use  it  sometimes  by  way  of  cursing,  but  they  have  no  right  to  do 
so,  and  it  is  a  wrong  thing  to  do ;  but  because  they  misuse  it,  there  is 
no  reason  why  we  should  drop  it. 

THE  GOSPEL  TO  BE  PREACHED  TO  EVERY  CREATURE 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  to  be  preached  to  every  creature. 
Those  who  do  not  hear  it  in  the  flesh  will  at  some  period  or  other  hear 
it  in  the  spirit  world;  some  at  one  time  and  some  at  another;  and  we 
have  learned,  by  the  ordinances  revealed  in  the  latter-days,  we  who  have 
been  baptized  unto  Christ,  believing  in  Him  and  His  commandments,  that 
we  are  privileged  to  stand  as  proxies  for  others  who  have  passed  away 
without  hearing  it  and  some  who  have  heard  it,  through  the  corrup- 
tions of  men  and  their  own  weakness,  have  not  received  it.  This 
is  a  grand  and  glorious  work  that  is  being  performed  in  the  temples 
that  have  been  reared  in  behalf  of  our  departed  ancestors  and  some 
"perhaps  to  whom  we  are  not  directly  related. 

TOUCHING  THE  FULLNESS  OF  THE  GOSPEL 

Now,  some  of  our  brethren  have  taken  up  quite  a  discussion  as  to 
the  fidness  of  the  everlasting  gospel.  We  are  told  that  the  Book  of 
Mormon  contains  the  fulness  of  the  gospel,  that  those  who  like  to  get 
i*p  a  dispute,  say  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  does  not  contain  any  refer- 
ence to  the  work  of  salvation  for  the  dead,  and  there  are  many  other 
things  pertaining  to  the  gospel  that  are  not  developed  in  that  book, 
and  yet  we  are  told  that  book  contains  "the  fulness  of  the  everlasting 
gospel."  Well,  what  is  the  fulness  of  the  gospel?  You  read  care- 
fully the  revelation  in  regard  to  the  three  glories,  section  76,  in  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  you  find  there  defined  what  the  gospel 
is.  There  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  and  Jesus  Christ,  His  Son,  and  the 
Holy  Ghost,  are  held  up  as  the  three  persons  in  the  Trinity —  the  one 
God.  the  Father,  the  Word,  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  all  three  being  united 
and  being  one  God.  When  people  believe  in  that  doctrine  and  obey 
the  ordinances  which  are  spoken  of  in  the  same  list  of  principles,  you 
get  the  fulness  of  the  gospel  for  this  reason:  If  you  really  believe 
so  as  to  have  faith  in  our  Eternal  Father  and  in  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ, 
the  Redeemer,  and  will  hear  Him,  you  will  learn  all  about  what  is 
needed  to  be  done  for  the  salvation  of  the  living  and  the  redemption  of 
the  dead. 

WTien  people  believe  and  repent  and  are  baptized  by  Divine  au- 
thority and  the  Holy  Ghost  is  conferred  upon  them  as  a  gift,  they  receive 
the  everlasting  gospel.    We  used  to  call  it,  and  it  is  now  called  in  the 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


revelations,  the  "Gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,"  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  spirit 
that  proceeds  from  the  presence  of  the  Father  throughout  the  immensity 
of  space,  which  guides,  directs,  enlightens,  which  is  light  in  and  of  itself, 
which  is  the  spirit  of  intelligence,  "the  light  of  truth,"  and  when  the 
Holy  Ghost  as  a  gift  is  conferred'  upon  people,  young  or  old,  as  an 
"abiding  witness,"  as  a  continuous  gift,  as  a  revelating  spirit,  they  have 
the  beginning,  and  I  would  not  say  the  end,  but  they  have  the  substance 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  They  have  that  which  will  bring  salva- 
tion, for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  is  such  that  it  will  highly  enlighten 
everyone  who  receives  it.  That  is  the  spirit  that  enlightens  every  man 
that  comes  into  the  world,  we  are  told.  Certainly,  it  is  the  spirit  of  life 
and  of  light,  but  when  it  is  conferred  by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  as  a 
gift  to  the  individual,  a  special  gift,  above  that  natural  light  that  comes 
bv  birth,  then  there  is  something  given  to  the  individual  by  which  he  or 
she  can  inquire  and  learn  and  be  inspired  of  God.  The  Holy  Ghost 
is  the  Spirit  of  inspiration  which  comes  from  the  presence  of  the 
Father  and  the  Son ;  it  enlightens  in  regard  to  all  things.  "God  has 
revealed  these  things  unto  us  by  his  Spirit,"  said'  the  ancient  Apostle 
Peter,  "For  the  spirit  searcheth  all  things,  yea  the  deep  things  of  God," 
and  if  a  man  holds  the  authority  of  the  holy  Priesthood,  he  has  to  speak 
and  preach  and  administer  under  the  influence  of  that  spirit  to  make  it 
divine.  All  revelation  from  the  Father  comes  through  the  Son,  and  by 
the  power  and  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  who,  as  one  of  the  Trinity,  is  an 
individual,  as  we  are  told  in  the  revelation,  he  is  "a  personage  of  spirit." 

Now  some  of  our  brethren  get  these  two  ideas  confounded  no  mat- 
ter what  is  done  or  said  or  printed  or  written.  It  has  been  explained 
time  and  time  agam,  and  vet  some  of  our  brethren  want  to  know  if  everv 
child  receives  the  Holy  Ghost  as  a  personage  of  spirit,  when  confirmed 
into  the  Church.  No,  that  is  not  the  idea  at  all ;  the  Holy  Spirit 
or  Holy  Ghost  (the  two  terms  are  used  svnonymously  very  often — 
sometimes  perhaps  unnecessarilv  so)  the  Holy  Ghost  which  pervades 
all  tlrngs,  bv  which  God  said  he  created  all  things,  the  Holy  Ghost 
which  is  the  Spirit  that  comes  from  His  presence,  this  power  is  dissemi- 
nated through  all  the  worlds  ;  by  that  means  God  enlightens  just  like  the 
lighf  that  comes  from  the  sun ;  each  person  does  not  receive  the  sun  as 
an  oreanized  body  but  the  light  of  the  sun  proceeds  forth  and  illuminates 
different  parts  of  space,  to  a  certan  extent,  at  any  rate. 

RECEIVING  THE  HOLY  GHOST 

Now,  let  us  understand  this  clearly  in  our  own  minds :  When 
we  lay  hands  upon  an  individual  and  say,  "Receive  the  Holy  Ghost," 
or  "Receive  ye  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,"  what  is  it?  Do  you  mean 
to  say  that  upon  every  child  that  is  confirmed,  you  give  the  personality 
of  the  Holv  Ghost,  as  a  personage  of  spirit?  Not  at  all;  it  is  the 
universal  Spirit  in  a  higher  degree  that  is  conferred.  That  Spirit  is  in 
all  things  and  through  all  things  and  round  about  all  things,  "the  law  by 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  29 


which  all  things  are  governed,"  and  by  which  God  controls  and  regulates 
the  universe.  It  is  a  gift  from  God  to  be  with  the  individual  always. 
If  he  or  she  will  yield  to  its  inspiration,  walk  in  its  light,  it  wilt  lead 
right  up  to  the  presence  of  the  Father.  It  comes  from  Him;  it  leads  to 
Him.  I  know  it  to  be  a  reality,  as  I  know  that  I  live.  Before  I  ever 
came  here  or  received  the  blessings  of  the  House  of  the  Lord,  I  know 
that  I  had  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  in  my  faith,  in  my  preaching, 
in  my  ministry,  in  attending  to  the  ordinances  that  I  administered  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord-  I  know  that  the  Spirit  and  power  of  God  was  there. 
I  know  that  when  I  have  been  placed  in  difficult  circumstances,  par- 
ticularly in  regard  to  my  ministry  abroad,  different  problems  that  con- 
fronted me  when  I  was  placed  in  authority,  I  know  that  jby  faith  and  by 
fervent  prayer  the  Lord  opened  the  eyes  of  my  understanding  and  gave 
me  to  see  what  to  do,  and  it  was  by  the  power  of  His  Spirit,  and 
by  that  Spirit  I  know  that  He  lives.  I  know  that  Jesus  of  Nazareth  is 
the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God.  By  that  Spirit  I  know  that  all 
the  ordinances  that  have  been  revealed  for  the  benefit  and  salvation 
of_the  human  family,  which  form  a  part  of  the  everlasting  gospel, 
have  come  from  God,  and  I  know  that  they  bring  salvation  to  the 
honest  in  heart  everywhere  on  the  earth,  and  they  will,  in  good  time, 

unto  all  the  races  and  conditions  of  men  that  exist  in  the  spirit  world. 
« 

AS  TO  SONS  OF  PERDITION 

There  are  some  other  little  things  that  people  get  jangling  about, 
I  am  sorry  to  say,  in  some  of  our  classes.  For  instance :  In  that  sec- 
tion that  I  just  referred  to — Section  76  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants — 
there  is  one  of  the  grandest  revelations  that  I  ever  saw  in  my  life  in 
any  book ;  there  is  nothing  in  the  Bible  that  compares  with  it ;  there  is 
nothing  in  any  book  that  I  ever  read  that  compares  with  it,  for  glory, 
for  perfection,  for  detail,  for  a  revelation  of  the  plans  of  the  Father 
for  the  salvation  of  his  children.  Now,  in  that  revelation,  we  are 
told  what  the  gospel  is,  and  we  are  told  for  what  it  was  designed,  and 
that  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  was  given  to  the  Savior  of  the  world, 
and  that  the  time  will  come  when  He  will  save  all  except  certain  ones 
that  are  named  there.  The  three  different  degrees  of  glory  are  made 
very  plain  and  clear,  I  think,  to  all  people  who  will  read  with  a 
prayerful  heart  The  celestial  glory  is  likened  to  the  sun,  because  the 
sun  is  the  biggest  luminary  that  we  know  much  about ;  the  sun  in  our 
firmament  is  to  us  the  brightest  orb  that  revolves,  and  the  glory  of  the 
celestial  kingdom  is  therefore  likened  to  the  sun.  The  glory  of  the 
•terrestrial  kingdom  is  likened  to  the  moon,  because  the  moon  is  second 
in  our  sight  in  glory ;  and  the  third  degree,  telestial,  is  called  the  glory 
of  the  stars,  and  as  one  star  differs  from  another  star  in  its  magnitude 
and  glory,  according  to  what  we  know  of  astronomy,  so  it  is  called  the 
telestial  kingdom.  Now,  Jesus  Christ  will  bring  forth  all  these  in  the 
resurection  from  the  dead,  even  the  malefactors  and  the  extortioners  and 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


those  who  love  and  make  a  lie — the  wickedest  kind  of  people,  after  they 
have  suffered  the  penalty  of  the  wrath  of  God,  so  that  justice  is  satis- 
fied, will  be  brought  forth  into  some  degree  of  glory.  Those  who  get  into 
the  celestial  kingdom  have  to  attend  to  certain  ordinances  that  are  ex- 
plained, and  those  who  get  into  the  terrestrial  kingdom  are  to  have 
certain  qualities  that  are  explained;  there  are  several  degrees  in  that 
one  glory;  and  so  in  the  telestial  world,  the  worst  kind  of  humanity, 
all  except  those  few  that  are  called  "Sons  of  Perdition." 

The  meaning  of  that  is  made  very  plain.  There  was  an  angel  in 
the  presence  of  God,  of  great  authority  and  power,  and  he  was  called 
a  Son  of  the  Morning,  a  bright  luminary  among  the  spirits  in  the 
celestial  world,  and  he  rebelled  against  the  Father  and  tried  to  get  the 
glory  that  belonged  to  the  Son,  and  he  was  turned  away  and  cast 
down  with  those  who  followed  him,  and  he  was  called  Perdition,  and 
the  heavens  wept  over  him  when  he  was  cast  out.  Then  those,  who 
by  his  power,  while  they  are  in  the  flesh,  after  receiving  the  testimony 
of  Jesus  Christ,  the  spirit  of  prophecy ;  after  receiving  the  Holy  Ghost, 
turn  away  from  its  light  altogether  and  deny  the  Holy  Ghost  and  deny 
the  Father  and  the  Son ;  when  they  thus  turn  away,  they  come  under 
Satan's  power  and  his  dominion  and  are  called  Sons  of  Perdition,  and 
these  are  the  exceptions  to  the  rule  spoken  of  in  that  revelation.  All 
the  rest  are  brought  forth  by  the  resurrection  of  the  dead  into  some 
degree  of  glory,  as  explained,  not  in  that  single  verse,  as  some  people 
think  it  ought  to  have  been,  but  throughout  the  whole  revelation,  and  we 
learn  clearly  that  those'who  are  eventually  saved,  redeemed,  brought 
out  of  darkness,  brought  out  of  punishment,  they  are  brought  forth 
by  the  resurrection  of  the  dead,  into  one  of  these  degrees  of  glory,  all 
but  these  exceptions.  He  says  he  saves  all  except  them;  they  shall  go 
away  with  the  devil  and  his  angels  into  everlasting  punishment. 

ALL  MANKIND,  GOOD  AND  EVIL  WILL  BE  RESURRECTED 

Now  then,  some  of  our  brethren  have  taken  a  notion  in  their  heads 
that  when  he  says  all  except  them,  it  means  they  will  not  be  resurrected. 
I  would  like  briefly  to  refer  you  to  the  88th  section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  in  which  this  subject  is  elaborated;  that  is,  the  things 
revealed  in  the  76th  section  in  regard  to  these  three  different  degrees 
of  glory  into  which  all  these  persons  are  brought  forth  to  salvation,  are 
congregated  and  arranged  and  organized  with  these  exceptions.  Now, 
in  the  88th  section,  you  will  find  that  the  Lord  goes  into  further 
details,  and  he  shows  that  when  the  resurrection  comes,  those  who  are 
of  a  celestial  spirit,  having  obeyed  the  celestial  law,  will  be  quickened 
by  the  celestial  glory.  Then  comes  the  next  degree,  those  who  receive  the 
terrestrial  principles,  and  they  come  forth  and  are  quickened  by  the  ter- 
restrial glory.  Then  comes  the  third  group.  These  are  they 
who  come  forth  in  the  telestial  glory,  and  their  glory  dif- 
fers as  one  star  differs   from   another,   and  they   shall   each  be 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  31 


judged  according  to  their  works,  as  all  will  be.  So  there  are 
various  degrees  of  these  people  who  are  brought  forth  according  to 
their  crimes  and  their  punishments  and  their  redemption;  they  come 
forth  into  the  glory  of  the  stars,  and  it  says :  "They  who  remain" — who 
are  they  that  remain?  It  tells  us  these  are  the  exceptions,  these  who 
go  away  with  the  devil  and  his  angels  and  are  called  Sons  of  Perdition, 
And  they  who  remain  shall  also  be  quickened ;  but  they  shall  return  to 
their  own  place,  because  they  would  not  receive  that  which  they  might 
have  had,  but  frittered  away  their  time  and  season  for  repentance,  and 
they  go  away  into  everlasting  punishment  with  the  devil  and  his  angels. 
Read  section  29  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  particularly  verses 
26-30;  also  88:  32,  33. 

"Well,  now,"  say  some  persons,  "won't  they  be  redeemed  some 
time  ?  How  do  you  know  ?"  Why  the  Lord  does  not  tell  you  and 
He  says  He  will  not  do  it.  He  says  it  is  not  revealed ;  the  height  and  the 
depth  and  the  extent  and  the  end  thereof  is  not  revealed,  so  do  not  try 
to  find  out  for  yourselves,  without  the  Lord  reveals  something  about  it; 
and  if  He  does  He  will  not  reveal  it  to  you  or  me  for  the  Church,  but 
will  reveal  it  to  us,  if  at  all,  for  our  own  enlightenment.  I  know  that 
the  Lord  reveals  things  to  men  for  their  enlightenment  and  blessing  and 
comfort  and  qualification  in  times  of  stress  and  pain  and  deliverance; 
He  reveals  things  to  them  by  the  power  of  the  Spirit  which  searcheth 
all  things,  yea  the  deep  things  of  God,  but  when  the  Lord  is  going  to 
reveal  anything  for  the  Church,  He  will  reveal  it  to  the  one  man 
appointed  for  the  purpose  of  revealing  something  new  to  the  Church. 

OUR  STRUGGLE  IS  TO  OBTAIN  CELESTIAL  GLORY 

Now,  brethren,  won't  it  be  just  as  well  to  leave  that  alone?  Some 
of  our  brethren  are  so  anxious  regarding  Lucifer :  "Shall  not  Lucifer 
be  redeemed  some  time?  Won't  the  time  come  when  he  will  repent?" 
If  that  time  does  come,  probably  he  would  be  restored  to  something ;  but 
repentance  does  not  come  to  everybody.  People  sin  away  the  time 
when  they  can  repent — they  cannot  be  saved  without  it.  Repentance  is 
a  principle  of  the  everlasting  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Why  are  some 
folks  so  anxious  about  that?  Do  any  of  our  brothers  and  sisters 
ever  expect  to  struggle  to  get  into  the  telestial  kingdom?  You  need 
not  bother  about  that  query.  Do  you  expect  to  get  into  the  terrestrial  ? 
You  need  not  bother  about  that.  You  are  after  the  celestial  kingdom  ;  are 
we  not  all  on  the  road,  striving  to*  overcome  our  little  infirmities  and 
weaknesses  of  nature  inherited  from  our  ancestors,  and  to  ovecome  the 
world  and  the  devil,  as  well  as  the  flesh?  Are  we  not  candidates 
for  the  celestial  glory  ?  Certainly  we  are,  and  what  we  should  be  anx- 
ious about  is  to  perform  our  duty  today,  to  be  Latter-day  Saints  in  very 
deed;  to  serve  the  Lord,  to  keep  his  commandments  and  to  remember 
the  commandment  of  the  Father:  "There  is  the  Son,  hear  Him-"  Listen 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  the  voice  of  Jesus  Christ.  That  is  the  word  of  the  Lord  to  us  in  these 
latter-days,  for  he  is  the  revealer  to  us. 

Now  then,  suppose  these  people  sometime  could  repent,  what  have 
you  got  to  do  with  it?  You  take  the  New  Testament  and  read  the 
last  chapter  in  the  gospel,  according  to  St.  John,  and  you  will  find  a 
little  account  there  of  a  colloquy  between  Jesus  and  Peter.  He  told 
Peter  to  feed  his  sheep ;  then  he  told  him  to  feed'  his  lambs,  and  then 
Peter  turned  around  and  said,  concerning  John,  "What  shall  this 
man  do?"  He  said,  "If  I  will  that  he  tarry  till  I  come,  what  is  that  to 
thee  ?"  You  feed  my  sheep.  That,  I  think,  is  a  very  good  lesson  for 
all  of  us.  What  does  it  matter  to  us  about  Lucifer?  What  does  it 
matter  to  us  whether  the  Sons  of  Perdition  ever  get  redemption?  The 
Lord  has  not  revealed  it,  and  he  says  he  does  not  reveal  it  except  to  them 
who  are  made  partakers  thereof.  Don't  pretend  to  know  any  more  than 
your  brethren  on  these  matters.  I  say  unto  you,  whether  Lucifer  shall 
be  redeemed,  or  these  Sons  of  Perdition  be  redeemed,  what  niattereth 
it  to  you  ?  You  do  your  duty,  you  candidates  for  celestial  glory,  go  on, 
continuing  to  serve  the  Lord,  keep  His  commandmnts ;  do  your  duty ; 
if  you  are  called  upon  to  preach  abroad — go  out  into  the  world  and 
preach — you  cannot  have  a  better  occupation. 

THE  JOY  OF  SERVICE  IN  THE  MISSION  FIELD 

I  see  men  nearly  every  day  that  have  been  on  missions  and  come 
home  with  a  smiling  countenance;  only  once  in  a  great  while  is  there 
a  fellow  looking  down  his  nose — very  seldom,  indeed,  that  they  do  not 
come  home  thankful  for  the  glorious  time  they  have  had ;  and  I  know 
what  that  is.  President  Grant  was  kind  enough  to  allude  to  my 
services  abroad,  and  I  have  been  abroad  or  at  home  in  this  ministry 
now  for  over  seventy  years.  When  I  have  been  abroad  or  at  home, 
I  have  been  laboring  in  the  same  great  cause ;  it  is  what  I  wanted.  It 
is  what  I  prayed  for,  that  I  might  be  in  the  service  of  the  Lord ;  that 
I  might  hejp  to  build  up  Zion,  and  whether  at  home  or  abroad,  on  the 
land  or  on  the  sea ;  in  every  nation  and  country,  among  every  people 
I  have  visited,  I  have  tried  to  preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son 
of  the  living  God,  and  bear  testimony  to  His  divinity  and  to 
the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  which  to  us,  in  this  dis- 
pensation are  blended  together  in  one.  For,  if  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet 
of  God.  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  for  He  was  His  minister;  and  if 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  Savior  of  the  world,  Joseph  Smith  is  His  prophet, 
for  He  gave  him  the  authority  to  establish  His  Church.  It  came  in  the 
right  and  proper  way,  and  it  is  here  to  stay,  thank  God.  While  at  home, 
and  abroad,  my  labors  have  been  in  this  ministry.  I  thank  God  for  it. 
I  prayed  to  the  Lord,  when  I  accepted  the  gospel,  that  He  would  make 
(the  truth  plain  to  me,  as  it  was  before  Him.  I  did  not  want  a 
man-made  religion,  nor  mere  opinions,  nor  what  I  could  learn  from 
what  I  read  and  thought,  but  I  wanted  to  understand  the  truth  as  it  is 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  33 


in  Christ  Jesus.  The  Lord  has  manifested  a  great  many  things  to  me, 
individually,  that  I  have  never  talked  about  in  public,  because  it  was 
not  my  duty  nor  my  place,  but  He  has  been  with  me ;  praise  be  to  His 
holy  Name;  praise  God  from  whom  all  blessings  flow;  praise  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Savior,  our  Redeemer,  our  living  head  in  our  Church. 
Praise  the  Holy  Ghost  for  light  and  truth  spread  abroad  under  the 
direction  of  the  Father  and  the  Son.  Praise  God  for  all  his  goodness, 
and  for  every  principle  of  truth  and  light  revealed  for  our  salvation 
and  our  comfort. 

I  could  go  on  and  talk  a  good  deal  more,  this  afternoon,  but  it 
would  not  be  wise  for  me,  because  there  are  so  many  others  to  speak. 
I  thank  Brother  Grant  for  giving  me  this  privilege  this  afternoon,  ot 
spending  a  little  time  in  saying  a  few  word's  to  my  brothers  and  sisters. 
I  am  anxious  for  this  cause  in  which  we  all  labor.  I  feel  blessed  in  my 
soul  this  afternoon  to  look  down  here  and  see  these  old  friends  that  I 
have  known  for  so  long,  and  some  new  friends.  God  is  with  them ;  they 
are  doing  a  splendid  work,  preaching  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the 
salvation  of  mankind.  It  is  a  good  work ;  it  pays  as  it  goes.  I  would 
not  stop  and  detain  you  to  tell  you  about  the  trials,  struggles,  and 
vicissitudes  I  passed  through  in  my  early  days  when  I  ministered  with- 
out purse  or  scrip— not  at  all.  The  Lord  was  with  me,  and  I  thank 
Him  that  He  is  with  me  today,  and  that  I  am  able  to  be  here  and  bear  you 
my  testimony  that  Jesus  of  Nazareth  is  Christ  Jesus ;  He  is  the  Christ  : 
He  is  the  Messiah ;  He  is  the  Savior  of  mankind ;  by  Him  and  through 
Him  and  of  Him,  under  the  direction  of  the  Father,  were  the  worlds 
created-  By  Him  and  through  Him  this  earth  will  be  saved  and  crowned 
with  glory.  By  Him  and  through  Him,  salvation  will  come  to  all  who 
can  be  saved  and  redeemed  and  brought  forth  in  the  due  time  of  the 
Lord,  to  receive  that  which  they  can  have,  though  they  may  not  get 
that  which  they  might  have  had. 

BLESSINGS  UPON  THE  PEOPLE 

May  God  bless  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters;  you  good  sisters  labor- 
ing in  the  various  organizations;  you  are  doing  a  splendid  work;  you 
don't  get  much  financial  pay  for  it,  but  you  are  paid  in  yourselves, 
at  least,  if  you  have  the  same  experience  I  have  had,  you  are  paid 
every  day  in  the  blessings  of  the  Holy  Spirit ;  in  the  light  of  the  Lord ; 
in  the  fellowship  of  the  Holy  Ghost ;  in  the  power  and  demonstration 
of  the  Spirit  in  my  soul ;  in  the  enlightenment  of  my  mind,  that  I  am 
able  to  draw  near  to  God  and  receive  from  Him  His  divine  light  and 
Spirit  and  blessing  and  comfort  and  be  a  blessing  and  comfort  to  a  few 
of  my  fellow  creatures. 

God  bless  you,  everyone,  in  all  your  stations  and  places.  Be  faith- 
ful and  true  and  set  God's  kingdom  first;  obey  the  injunction  of  the 
Savior,  "Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness,"  and 
when  you  quote  it  do  not  say  "It's."  A  good  many  of  our  writers  say, 
"Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  its  righteousness,"  but  Jesus 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


said,  "Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and'  his  righteousness."  Why  ? 
Because,  as  Paul  taught  the  Galatians :  "I  am  not  ashamed,"  said  he, 
"of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  in  it  the  righteousness  of  God  is 
revealed,  from  faith  to  faith."  "It  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation, 
and  therein  is  the  righteousness  of  God  revealed,  from  faith  to  faith," 
but  when  you  get  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  revealed  formerly  and 
as  revealed  in  these  latter  days,  as  revealed  to  the  Nephites  and  wher- 
ever the  Savior  went,  when  you  get  that  and  have  faith  in  the  true  God, 
the  Eternal  Father,  and  in  His  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  Holy 
Ghost,  and  you  get  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  in  and  through  that, 
the  righteousness  of  God  will  be  revealed  from  faith  toJaith  and  you 
will  take  hold  of  that  faith  and  you  will  come  to  a  fulness  of  perfec- 
tion, which  may  God  help  us  all  to  do,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Baritone  solo,  "Plains  of  Peace,"  was  sung  by  Raymond  Wil- 
liams, accompanied  on  the  organ  by  Edward  P.  Kimball. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

"As  the  heavens  are  higher  than  the  earth,  so  are  my  ways  higher  than 
your  ways,  and  my  thoughts  than  your  thoughts.  For  as  the  rain  cometh 
down,  and  the  snow  from  heaven,  and  returneth  not  thither,  but  watereth 
the  earth  and  maketh  it  bring  forth  and  bud,  that  it  may  give  seed  to  the 
sower,  and  bread  to  the  eater;  so  shall  my  word  be  that  goeth  forth  out 
of  my  mouth;  it  shall  not  return  to  me  void,  but  it  shall  accomplish  that 
which  I  please,  and  it  shall  prosper  in  the  thing  whereunto  I  send  it." 

THE  NATURE  OF  THIS  CONFERENCE 

The  President  announced,  in  his  opening  remarks,  that  ninety-two 
years  have  elapsed  since  the  organization  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  which  occurred  on  the  sixth  of  April,  1830. 

At  the  time  of  the  organization,  the  Lord  revealed,  in  connection 
with  other  regulations  for  the  government  of  the  Church,  that  general 
conferences  should  convene,  from  time  to  time,  as  the  requirements  of 
the  Church  might  make  them  necessary.  Since  that  time  it  has  been 
customary,  when  circumstances  have  not  prevented,  for  the  members 
to  meet  together  in  general  conference  on  the  sixth  of  April. 

This  is  a  meeting  to  which  officers  of  the  Church,  both  general 
and  local,  are  expected  to  be  present,  as  well  as  those  of  the1  members 
who  can  conveniently  attend.  The  general  condition  of  the  Church 
is  considered,  its  progress  noted,  the  past  reviewed,  the  problems  of 
the  present  discussed  and  aspirations  for  the  future  outlined,  as  the 
Lord  may  prompt  his  servants,  who  are  called  to  address  the  people, 
to  treat  these  various  topics. 

ADMINISTRATION  EPOCHS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Since  the  organization  of  the  Church,  six  men,  exclusive  jof 
the  present  administration,  have  been  called  to  preside  over  it,  to  di- 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IV INS  35 


rect  its  policy,  and  stand  as  the  mouth-piece  of  the  Lortd  to  its 
members. 

The  administration  of  each  of  these  men  marks  an  epoch  in  the 
development  of  the  Church,  each  as  distinct  from  the  other,  as  was 
the  character  and  temperament  of  the  man  who  administered  its 
affairs. 

Joseph  Smith  was  the  first  man  called  of  the  Lord  to  preside 
over  the  Church  in  this  dispensation.  Moroni,  a  messenger  sent  to 
communicate  the  will  of  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet,  after  his  first 
great  vision,  declared  to  Joseph  that  the  Lord  had  chosen  him  for 
the  accomplishment  of  a  special  work;  that  las  a  result  of  that 
work  his  name  Would  be  known  for  good  and  evil  among  all  na- 
tions, that  by  some  it  would  be  held  in  honor,  and  among  others 
in  reproach. 

THE  EPOCH  OF  RESTORATION 

Referring  to  the  opening  of  the  present  gospel  dispensation 
Isaiah,  the  Prophet,  from  whom  I  have  just  quoted,  said:  "For  as 
much  as  this  people  draw  near  me  with  their  mouth,  and  with  their 
lips  do  honor  me,  but  have  removed  their  heart  far  from  me,  and 
their  fear  toward  me  is  taught  by  the  precepts  of  men;  therefore, 
behold,  I  will  proceed  to  do  a  marvelous  work  among  this  people, 
even  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder ;  for  the  wisdom  of  their  wise 
men  shall  perish,  and  the  understanding  of  their  prudent  men  shall 
be  hid." 

Joseph  Smith  lived  to  fulfil  the  words  spoken  by  the  angel 
Moroni,  and  by  the  Lord  through  His  prophet  Isaiah. 

The  administration  of  the  Prophet  may  be  referred  to  as  the 
epoch,  or  period  of  restoration.  Line  upon  line,  precept  upon  pre- 
cept, the  Lord  revealed  to  him,  and  restored  through  him,  the  keys 
and  order  of  the  Priesthood,  the  organization  of  the  Church,  and  de- 
fined the  duties  of  its  members  with  such  fulness  that  nothing 
is  lacking.  The  keys  of  the  gathering  of  Latter-day  Israel  were  re- 
stored, as  well  as  those  making  possible  the  redemption  of  the  dead. 

,  His  entire  administration  was  characterized  by  bitter  perse- 
cution. In  vain  he  sought  a  home  for  the  gathered  Saints.  At 
Kirtland  there  was  no  peace.  In  Missouri,  where  the  people  hoped 
to  find  a  resting  place,  persecution  was  more  bitter  than  before. 
For  a  brief  period  the  Church  found  peace  and  rest  in  Illinois,  but 
just  when  its  members  began  to  reap  the  fruits  of  their  labors,  after 
infinite  sacrifice,  the  vials  of  wrath  were  poured  out  upon  them 
with  greater  violence  than  ever  before,  and  the  destruction  of  the 
Church  was  threatened. 

With  the  martyrdom  of  Joseph  the  enemies  of  the  Church  undoubt- 
edly thought  that  this  had  been  accomplished.  They  overlooked  the  fact 
that  the  Lord  had'  said  that  the  works,  and  designs  and  purposes 
of  the  Lord  cannot  be  frustrated,  but  that  the  designs  of  men 
fail. 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


With  the  death  of  the  prophet  the  Church  was  left  without  a 
direct  leader,  but  not  without  leadership.  Joseph  Smith  was  sur- 
rounded by  men  of  powerful  intellect,  devoted  faith,  and  unsur- 
passed courage,  as  clearly  fore-ordained  for  the  accomplishment  of 
the  task  before  them,  as  was  the  prophet  himself. 

THE  PIONEER  EPOCH 

From  among  these  men  Brigham  Young  was  chosen  to  be  the 
president  of  the  Church,  to  direct  its  policy,  under  circumstances 
entirely  different  from  those  which  confronted  his  predecessor. 

Recognizing  the  hopelessness  of  reconciliation  with  their 
neighbors,  determined  to  find  a  place  where  the  Saints  could  wor- 
ship the  Lord  without  molestation,  this  modern  Moses  and  his 
associates  tur/ned  their  faces  westward,  and  after  a  journey  unparal- 
leled in  the  history  of  the  world  found  asylum  in  these  mountain 
valleys,  where  the  body  of  the  Church  now  resides. 

PARALLEL  BETWEEN  THE  JOURNEY  OF  MODERN  AND  ANCIENT  ISRAEL 

It  is  true  that  Moses  led  the  Israelites  out  from  the  Egyptian 
captivity ;  the  Puritans  had  left  their  homes  in  the  old  world  and 
landed  at  Plymouth  Rock. 

The  impulse  which  prompted  each  of  these  great  movements, 
which  have  meant  so  much  to  the  world  and  its  people,  were 
similar,  but  the  circumstances  under  which  they  were  accomplished 
entirely  different. 

The  Israelites  were  going  out  from  a  grievous  and  humiliating 
bondage,  and  returning  to  their  old  home,  in  the  land  of  their 
fathers.  Modern  Israel  were  leaving  their  homes,  the  lands  of  their 
fathers,  and  were  going  into  a  country  unknown  to  them,  a  country 
uninhabited  by  civilized  man. 

The  Israelites  were  a  people  of  one  race,  influenced  in  the  ac- 
complishment of  their  purpose  by  the  traditions  and  religion  of 
their  fathers.  The  Latter-day  Saints  were  composed  of 
people  gathered  from  various  nations,  bringing  with  them  differ- 
ent traditions,  different  customs  and  different  languages. 

Ancient  Israel  was  separated  from  their  destination  by  only 
about  two  hundred  and  fifty  miles,  in  a  direct  line,  and  that  over 
a  country  where  great  armies  have  marched  from  remote  times. 
The  "Mormon"  Pioneers  traveled  over  a  road  where  few  had  gone 
before,  a  distance  of  more  than  a  thousand  miles. 

Ancient  Israel  were  led  by  great  occular  demonstrations  of  the 
power  of  the  Lord,  and  their  daily  bread  was  provided  by  manna 
sent  down  from  heaven.  The  "Mormon"  Pioneers  walked  by  di- 
vine faith,  and  provided  for  their  daily  necessities  with  the  labor 
of  their  own  hands. 

Reaching  their  destination  Ancient  Israel  found  cities  already 
built,  orchards  and  vineyards  already  planted,  and  flocks  and  herds 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


37 


which  the  Lord  delivered  into  their  hands.  Modern  Israel  found 
a  desert  waste,  which  could  only  be  redeemed,  and  made  produc- 
tive by  infinite  toil.  ' 

So,  I  feel  justified  in  saying  that  this  accomplishment  has  no 
parallel  in  the  history  of  the  world. 

With  the  arrival  of  the  "Mormon"  Pioneers  in  the  Salt  Lake 
Valley  the  wisdom,  intelligence  and  vision  of  their  great  leader 
was  manifested.  The  earth,  said  Brigham  Young,  is  the  most 
sacred  heritage  which  God  has  bequeathed  to  man.  From  it  he 
obtains  all  that  he  possesses  that  is  worth  while,  and  when  his 
mortal  life  is  finished  he  returns  to  its  bosom.  Do  not,  he  pleaded, 
be  decieved  by  the  lure  of  gold  in  California,  nor  by  the  precious 
minerals  which  abound  in  the  mountains  surrounding  this  valley, 
but  secure  and  hold  the  land.  It  is  the  heritage  which  the  Lord 
has  held  in  reserve  for  you  and  your  children,  and  must  never  be 
permitted  to  pass  into  the  hands  of  strangers. 

The  Saints  were  gathered  from  abroad,  colonists  were  sent  out 
until  every  available  valley  was  occupied,  towns  and  villages 
sprang  up  in  desert  places,  factories,  mills,  thje  trades  and  indus- 
tries were  established  and  fostered,  and  the  people  made  as  nearly 
independent  and  self-sustaining  as  possible  under  the  circum- 
stances which  prevailed. 

Such  was  the  administration  of  President  Brigham  Young. 
Its  outstanding  accomplishment  was  the  hegira  of  the  "Mormon" 
people  from  Illinois  to  the  Rocky  Mountains,  the  gathering  of  the 
Saints  from  abroad,  and  the  colonization  and  redemption  of  these 
mountain  valleys.  To  me  it  has  always  been  the  great  gathering, 
colonization,  and  industrial  epoch  in  the  history  of  the  Church. 
There  has  never  been  an  epoch  like  unto  it  in  the  past,  there  will 
be  none  like  it  in  the  future. 

AN  EPOCH  OF  STORM 

The  administration  of  John  Taylor  followed  that  of  President 
Young. 

During  the  former  administration  storm  clouds  had  again 
gathered,  which  broke  with  great  fury  soon  after  John  Taylor  as- 
sumed the  presidency.  The  Church  and  the  world  were  again  at 
variance,  as  they  have  always  been,  and  must  continue  to  be  until 
the  doctrines  taught  by  the  Redeemer  are  accepted  and  applied. 

The  marital  relations  of  members  of  the  Church  were  made  the 
pretext  for  assault.  Plural  marriage,  under  certain  restrictions, 
had  been  accepted  as  a  proper  relation  of  sexes.  Laws  were  en- 
acted by  the  congress  prohibiting  such  marriages,  and  providing 
punishment  for  those  who  persisted  in  the  practice.  Prosecutions 
for  violations  of  the  law  were,  frequent,  the  property  of  the  Church 
was  escheated  to  the  Government,  resulting  in  great  suffering  and 
financial  loss. 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


The  laws  prohibiting  plural  marriage  were  regarded  as  un- 
constitutional and  unjust  by  the  Church,  and  their  execution  was 
bitterly  opposed.  Suits  were  carried  to  the  Supreme  Court,  which 
upheld  the  law,  and  more  vigorous  steps  were  taken  to  enforce  it. 
While  this  storm  raged  John  Taylor  stood  immovable  in  his  con- 
viction that  the  anti -polygamy  law  was  unjust,  and  died  without 
making  any  concession.  This  was  the  outstanding  feature  of  his 
administration. 

THE  MANIFESTO  FORBIDDING  PLURAL  MARRIAGE 

During  the  early  part  of  the  administration  of  Wilford  Wood- 
ruff, who  succeeded  John  Taylor  as  president  of  the  Church,  the 
contention  which  had  been  brought  on  because  of  the  enforcement 
of  the  anti-polygamy  laws  continued.  It  became  evident  that 
every  available  legal  means  had  been  exhausted,  and  that  to  continue 
the  struggle  longer  would  be  useless  and  disastrous.  In  a  revela- 
tion given  to  the  Church,  in  1841,  the  Lord  had  said:  "Verily, 
verily,  I  say  unto  you :  That  when  I  give  a  commandment  to  any 
of  the  sons  of  men,  to  do  a  work  unto  my  name,  and  those  sons 
of  men  go  with  all  their  might,  and  with  all  they  have,  to  perform 
that  work,  and  cease  not  their  diligence,  and  their  enemies  come 
upon  them,  and  hinder  them  from  performing  that  work ;  behold, 
it  behooveth  me  to  require  that  work  no  more  at  the  hands  of  those 
sons  of  men,  but  to  accept  of  their  offering." 

President  Woodruff  issued  the  declaration  known  as  the 
Manifesto,  in  which  he  pledged  himself  to  abide  by  the  law,  and 
advised  all  members  of  the  Church  to  do  likewise. 

This  changed  attitude  of  the  Church,  in  regard  to  plural  mar- 
riage, resulted  in  the  restoration  of  the  remnant  of  property,  which 
had  been  in  the  hands  of  the  receiver,  to  the  rightful  owner.  Men 
who  had  been  disfranchised,  because  of  their  marital  relations, 
were  restored  to  full  citizenship,  Utah  was  admitted  to  the  Union 
as  a  sovereign  state,  ajnd  comparative  peace  established  between 
hitherto  warring  factions.  It  was  an  epoch  of  great  importance 
and  concern  to  the  Church. 

LAYING  THE  FOUNDATION  FOR  FINANCIAL  PROSPERITY 

When  Lorenzo  Snow  succeeded  to  the  Presidency  he  found 
the  finances  of  the  Church  in  a  deplorable  condition.  As  a  result 
of  the  receivership  the  revenues  had  been  cut  off,  its  resources 
greatly  depleted,  and  heavy  obligations  had  been  incurred,  with 
no  available  means  for  liquidation.  He  at  once  eintered  upon  the 
work  of  reconstruction,  appealed  to  the  people  to  be  more  liberal 
in  the  payment  of  their  tithes  and  offerings,  and  promised  that 
the  burden  which  rested  so  heavily  upon  the  Church,  and  upon 
them,  would  be  lifted  if  this  course  were  pursued. 

During  his  short  administration    many    of    the    debts    of  the 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS 


39 


Church  were  paid,  and  the  foundation  was  laid  for  the  financial  pros- 
perity which  was  to  follow. 

BUSINESS  EXPANSION  AND  FREEDOM  FROM  DEBT 

The  administration  of  President  Josieph  F.  Smith  was  ushered 
in  under  more  favorable  circumstances,  in  many  respects,  than 
any  which  preceded  it.  As  a  result  of  his  liberal  and  wise  policy, 
the  political  animosites  which  had  long  obstructed  the  proper  de- 
velopment of  both  the  Church  and  State  were  adjusted.  Better 
feeling  and  closer  business  relations  were  established  between 
members  and  non-members  of  the  Church.  Through  his  wise  and 
conservative  business  policy  the  obligations  of  the  Church  were 
liquidated,  until  it  was  entirely  free  from  debt.  Financial  pros- 
perity came  to  the  Church  and  its  members.  Ma,ny  new  buildings 
were  erected,  including  office  buildings,  amusement  halls,  gymna- 
siums, schools,  churches  and  temples.  It  was  a  period  of  peaceful 
relations  with  our  neighbors,  business  expansion,  and  general  pros- 
perity the  like  of  which  the  Church  had  never  before  experienced. 

PREACHING  THE  GOSPEL — THE  MAIN  RESPONSIBILITY  ALWAYS  BORNE  IN 

MIND 

During  the  entire  period  to  which  I  have  referred  the  'first 
great  responsibility  resting  upon  the1  Church  had  not  for  a  moment 
been  forgotten,  nor  neglected.  When  asked  by  His  disciples  for  a 
sign  by  which  they  might  recognize  the1  approach  of  the  time  when 
He  would  come  in  power  and  glory  in  the  latter  days,  the  Re- 
deemer said,  among  other  things:  "This  gospel  of  the  kingdom 
shall  be  preached  in  all  the  world,  as  a  witness  to  every  crfeature, 
and  then  shall  the  end  come."  In  a  revelation  given  to  the  Church, 
at  a  very  early  day,  the  Lord  said:  "This  gospel  shall  be  preached 
to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people,  and  the  servants  of 
the  Lord  shall  go  forth  saying  in  a  loud  voiice,  Fear  'God  and 
give  glory  to  Him,  for  the  hour  of  His  judgment  has  come,  and 
worship  Him  that  made  the  heavens  and  the  earth,  the  sea,  and 
the  fountains  of  water." 

While  in  poverty  and  distress,  in  the  midst  of  persecution,  or 
when  blessed  with  peace  and  plenty,  the  Church  has  not  for  a 
moment  neglected  this  first  great  command.  Its  missionaries 
have  gone  into  every  civilized  country  of  the  world,  where  en- 
trance was  permitted,  bearing  witness  to  the  people  that  a  light 
had  broken  forth  among  those  who  sit  in  darkness,  which  was  the 
fulness  of  the  everlasting  gospel,  and  warning  the  people  to  pre- 
pare the  way  of  the  Lord,  and  make  straight  His  paths,  that  they 
might  be  prepared  for  His  kingdom  and  coming. 

MAGNITUDE  OF  MISSIONARY  WORK 

I  have  no  means  by  which  I  can  definitely  state  the  number 
of  missionaries  who  have  gone  into  the  field,  since  the  organiza- 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


tion  of  the  Church,  or  the  number  of  years  of  missionary  work 
which  has  been  given,  but  taking  the  record  of  the  past  twenty 
years,  during  which  period  we  have  kept  accurate  records,  and 
making  a  very  low  estimate,  the  result  would  be  about  as  follows: 
Sixty  thousand  aind  eighty  men  have  gone  to  the  mission  fields, 
we  think  many  more.  It  has  cost,  to.  send  these  elders  to  their  fields  of 
labor,  and  bring  them  back  to  their  homes,  at  least  six  millions  of 
dollars.  The  expense  of  keeping  them  in  the  field  has  not  been 
less  than  eighteen  millions  of  dollars.  Counting  their  earning 
capacity,  again  a  very  low  estimate,  at  seventy-five  dollars  per 
month,  would  amount  to  fifty-four  millions  of  dollars,  so  we  have 
a  total  of  seventy-eight  millions  of  dollars,  which  have  been  ex< 
pended,  in  time  and  money,  by  the  elders  of  the  Church,  in  carry- 
ing the  gospel  message  to  the  people  of  the  world  since  the  or- 
ganization of  the  Church.  When  it  is  considered  that  all  of  this 
time  and  money  has  been  given  without  compensation,  the  men 
who  have  accomplished  the  work  having  paid  their  own  expenses, 
I  feel  justified  in  saying  that  it  is  an  accomplishment  which  can- 
not be  duplicated  in  the  history  of  the  world. 

When  it  is  remembered  that  these  missionaries  have  been, 
in  the  great  majority  of  cases,  young  men  taken  from  the  farms, 
the  work  shops,  the  trades  and  industries,  without  previous  train- 
ing or  experience,  we  exclaim,  with  Isaiah,  a  marvelous  work  and 
a  wonder  has  been  accomplished,  for  the  wisdom  of  the  wise  has 
perished,  and  the  understanding  of  the  prudent  has  been  hid.  Dur- 
ing the  past  ninety-two  years  the  wise  and  learned  of  the  world 
have  combatted  these  unlearned  men,  and  have  never  proved 
them  wrong  in  a  single  doctrine  which  they  have  taught. 

HOME  OCCUPATIONS  OF  MISSIONARIES 

It  may  be  interesting  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  know 
that  during  the  past  ten  years,  since  accurate  statistics  have  been 
kept,  the  following  have  been  the  occupations,  of  the  men  who  have 
gone  into  the  mission  field :  There  have  been  of  artizans  and 
tradesmen,  4  per  cent;  of  men  engaged  in  clerical  work,  8.5  per 
cent;  professional  men  5.7  per  cent;  engaged  in  mercantile  pur- 
suits; 4  per  cent;  laborers,  8.3  per  cent;  not  classified,  17.5  per 
cent ;  farmers,  your  boys  and  girls  from  the  rural  districts,  52  per 
cent..  The  unclasssified  are  largely  boys  just  from  school,  many  of 
them  from  the  rural  districts,  showing  that  a  majority  of  all  the 
missionary  work  done  is  by  m/en  from  the  farming  communities. 

THE  PRESENT  AND  TO  US  MOST  IMPORTANT  EPOCH  OF  THE  CHURCH 

This  brief  review  brings  us  to  the  present,  to  us  the  most 
important  epoch  in  the  development  of  the  Church,  because  it  is 
our  day,  the  day  when  we,  who  are  members  of  the  Church,  and 
who  direct  its  affairs,  are  to  prove  ourselves.    This  day  has  never 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  1VINS  41 


come  before,  it  will  never  come  again.  Tomorrow  the  sixth  of 
April,  1922,  will  have  gone  with  its  successes  and  failures,  its  ac- 
complishments, and  neglect  of  duty,  and  can  never  be  recalled. 

The  past  is  of  inestimable  worth  to  us,  provided  we  profit  by 
the  lessons  which  it  teaches.  The  future,  in  so  far  as  the  Lord 
has  revealed  it,  through  his  servants  the  prophets,  is  a  sure  guide 
by  which  we  may  prepare  for  coming  events.  The  present  is  the 
day  of  our  probation.  Will  we  be  equal  to  the  tasks  and  respon- 
sibilities which  are  to  come,  the  test  which  is  to  be  applied?  If 
iwe  put  our  trust  in  the  Lord,  and  devotedly  serve  Him,  as  our 
predecessors  have  done,  we  shall  triumph;  if  we  forget  Him,  and  de- 
pend upon  the  arm  of  flesh,  we  shall  fail,  as  all  who  have  traveled 
down  this  broad  road  have  hitherto  done. 

PROBLEMS    CONFRONTING    US    DANGEROUS    AND  DIFFICULT 

The  problems  with  which  the  Church  is  now  confronted,  while 
differing  from  those  of  the  past,  are  none  the  less  dangerous  and 
difficult  of  solution. 

The  Church  is  not  now  confronted  by  the  problem  of  separa- 
tion from  other  people,  by  migration  to  an  unknown  country,  and 
the  difficulties  of  colonization.  The  political  differences  which 
have  divided  the  "Mormon"  people  and  their  fellow  citizens  have 
been  largely  solved. 

After  separating  ourselves  from  the  world,  the  world  has  come 
to  us,  bringing  with  it  much  that  is  good,  much  which  is  bad. 
One  thing  this  chajnged  condition  has  taught  us :  We  are  an  in- 
tegral part  of  the  great  world,  and  whether  we  desire  it  or  not,  we 
must  be  influenced,  to  a  greater  or  less  extent,  by  its  invironment  with 
which  we  are  surrounded. 

That  we  are  in  a  world  the  very  foundations  of  which  are 
being  shaken  by  the  conflicting  creedsl,  traditions,  and  interests  of 
its  people,  none  will  deny. 

Notwithstanding  the  ages  of  effort  put  forth  by  the  churches 
to  turn  the  hearts  of  men  to  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  infidelity 
and  lack  of  faith  are  manifested  everywhere.  Notwithstanding 
our  ages  of  endeavour  to  establish  suitable  conditions  for  the 
stability  and  protection  of  society,  lawless  men  walk  the  streets 
of  every  city  of  our  land,  who  rob  and  kill  for  gain,  secret  com- 
binations ride  and  burn  and  destroy  by  night,  who,  if  appre- 
hended, which  is  rarely  the  case,  are  more  seldom  convicted  by 
our  courts  and  juries,  prosecution  being  excessively  expensive,  and 
conviction  well  nigh  impossible. 

Notwithstanding  our  efforts  to  protect  the  weak  against  the 
strong,  to  maintain  purity  in  our  social  life,  to  make  the  home  the 
altar  of  God,  and  create  through  marriage  a  protection  for  virtue, 
which  should  be  sacred  as  life  itself,  the  statistics  published  by 
any  city  in  our  land  will  show  that  courtezajns   walk    the  streets 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


with  brazen  disregard  for  decency,  innocent  girls  are  made  the 
victims  of  libertines,  who  are  rarely  punished,  and  the  fountains 
of  life  are  corrupted  with  impurity. 

Selfishness;  ambition  for  wealth,  which  under  our  present  sys- 
tem brings  power;  disregard  for  law,  when  it  conflicts  with  our 
personal  interests;  the  combination  of  wealth,  through  great  cor- 
porate organizations,  for  the  purpose  of  exercising  control  over 
the  law-making  bodies  of  our  country,  and  the  courts  by  which 
the  law  is  administered,  are  among  the  dangers  which  menace  the 
world  and  threaten  us. 

AUTHENTIC  VIEWS  CONCERNING  THESE  PROBLEMS 

That  I  may  not  be  accused  of  expressing  my  own  views  only, 
upon  these  questions,  permit  me  to  read  the  statements  of  other 
men.  At  Chicago,  on  the  21st  of  last  month,  Chief  Justicel  Scanlon, 
in  stating  the  purpose  for  which  a  meeting  had  been  called,  de- 
clared that  it  was  for  the  purpose  of  discussing  means  to  combat 
and  throttle  the  hold  crime  has  upon  the  throat  of  the  city.  Chief 
of  police  Fitzmorris  said : 

"The  city  is  on  the  edge  of  chaos.  The  work  of  the  police  department 
is  being  undone  as  fast  as  the  police  can  do  it.  Unless  this  city  awakens 
to  the  emergency  which  confronts  it,  the  day  will  come,  and  it  is  not  far 
distant,  when  gun  men,  like  Macaulay's  New  Zealander,  will  stand  on  Michi- 
gan Avenue  bridge,  and  exultantly  look  down  upon  the  ruins  of  law  and 
order." 

James  A.  Patten,  representing  the  citizens  committee,  said : 

"It  is  time  for  plain  talking.  The  cold  facts  in  the  situation  are  known. 
Men  are  murdered,  property  destroyed,  the  safety  and  comfort  of  the  com- 
munity are  in  danger.  The  murderers  are  known.  They  are  arrested, 
tried,  and  turned  loose.  Thpy  have  no  fear  of  the  police.  They  sneer  at  the 
law,,  and  make  a  mockery  of  criminal  justice  as  it  is  administered  in  this 
community.  This  is  no  time  for  excuses  or  promises,  it  is  time  for  action. 
The  turning  point  has  come,  decency  wins  or  anarchy  triumphs,  there  is 
no  middle  course." 

Senator  Cummins,  of  Iowa,  who  has  been  for  many  years  a 
member  of  the  United  States  Senate,  and  a  representative  of  the 
dominant  party  now  in  control  of  the  government,  at  a  meeting 
recently  held  at  Des  Moines,  said : 

"Washington  is  merely  a  place  where  organizations  make  war  upon 
each  other  for  selfish  legislative  purposes,  organization  has  gone  to  such 
length  that  it  is  now  practically  impossible  for  congress  to  get  an  unselfish 
and  unbiased  opinion  on  any  public  question.  Where  are  we  to  get  at 
Washington,  when  every  bit  of  information  that  comes  to  us  is  from  a 
selfish  standpoint.  Down  there  it  is  simply  a  war  between  organizations. 
Congressional  committees  are  constantly  holding  hearings  ujpon  important 
questions,  and  I  have  yet  to  hear,  during  this  session,  a  single  man  come 
to  a  committee  hearing  for  the  purpose  of  enlightening  the  committee  from 
the  public  standpoint.    All  come  to  urge  something  which  will  help  the 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVJNS  43 


particular  organization  with  which  they  arc  affiliated.  It  creates  in  my 
opinion,  a  very  difficult  and  alarming  situation." 

Do  we  honor  and  sustain  the  civil  law?  Let  one  of  the  wisest 
and  best  informed  bodies  of  men  in  the  world  speak  upon  that 
subject.  I  read  from  a  report  unanimously  adopted  by  the  Judi- 
cial section  of  the  American  Bar  Association,  of  the  United  States. 
I  clipped  this  from  Current  Opinion,  December,  1921 : 

'The  judicial  section  of  the  American  Bar  Association,  venturing  to 
speak  for  all  the  judges,,  wishes  to  express  this  warning  to  the  Amer- 
ican people.  Reverence  for  law,  and  enforcement  of  law,  depend  main'y  upon 
the  ideals  and  customs  of  those  who  occupy  the  vantage  ground  in  business 
and  society.  The  people  of  the  United  States,  by  solemn  constitutional 
and  statutory  enactment,  have  undertaken  to  suppress  t^a  age-long  evil  of 
the  liquor  traffic.  When,  for  the  gratification  of  their  appetites,  or  the 
promotion  of  their  interests,  lawyers,  bankers,  great  merchants  and  manu- 
facturers, and  social  leaders,  both  men  and  women,,  disobey  and  scoff 
at  this  law,  or  any  other  law,  they  are  aiding  the  cause  of  anarchy  and 
promoting  mob  violence,  robbery,  and  homicide,  they  are  sowing  dragons' 
teeth,  and  they  need  not  be  surprised  when  they  find  that  no  judicial  or 
police  authority  can  save  our  country  or  humanity),  from  reaping  the  har- 
vest." 

HOW  THE  CHURCH  STANDS  ON  THESE  QUESTIONS 

Against  all  of  these  evils  the  Church  stands  uncompromisingly 
opposed>  and  expects  the  support  of  every  member  in  the  battle 
which  is  being  waged. 

Is  there  a  Church  member  who  is  a  violator  of  the  prohibition 
law,  or  any  other  civil  law?  Let  him  repent.  Is  there  onje  who 
says  the  attitude  of  the  Church  is  changed  in  relation  to  the  ob- 
servance of  the  law  given  of  the  Lord  known  as  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  or  any  other  law  given  of  the  Lord?  Let  him  be  in- 
formed that  there  has  been  no  change,  unless  it  be  that  now,  more 
than  ever  before,  the  observance  of  these  laws  is  necessary.  Is 
there  one  who  in  his  own  strength  and  pride  has  forgotten  his  de- 
pendence upon  the  Lord,  and  ceased  to  pray  to  him,  and  teach 
his  children  to  so  do.  Let  him  repent  and  return  to  the  Lord,  that 
whether  in  his  banking  house,  his  store,  in  the  work  shop,  while 
cultivating  his  fields,  or  with  his  flocks  and  herds  upon  the  plains 
or  mountains,  his  prayers,  uttered  or  unexpressed  may  ascend  to 
the  Lord  in  gratitude  for  blessings  received,    and    others  desired. 

ADMONITIONS 

Remember,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  word  of  the  Lord, 
which  goeth  forth  from  His  mouth,  shall  not  return  unto  Him 
void,  but  shall  accomplish  the  thing  whereunto  He  sent  it,  and  He 
has  declared  that  his  Church  has  been  established  for  the  last 
time,  never  to  be  destroyed  or  given  to  other  people.     Let  us 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


hold  fast  to  the  rod  of  iron,  which  is  the  word  of  God,  and  it  will 
lead  us  to  the  tree  of  life,  taking  us  safely  through  this  world  of 
darkness  and  confusion.  May  the(  Lord  help  us  all  to  this  end,  I 
humbly  pray,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "We  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a 
prophet,"  and  the  Conference  was  adjourned  until  10  o'clock,  Fri- 
day morning,  the  closing  prayer  being  offered  by  Elder  Edward  C. 
Rich,  President  of  the  Montpelier  stake  of  Zion. 


SECOND  DAY 

The  meeting  began  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Friday,  April  7,  Presi- 
dent Heber  J.  Grant,  presiding. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  announced  that  the  choir  and  congre- 
gation would  sing  the  hymn,  "How  firm  a  foundation  ye  Saints  of 
the  Lord." 

After  the  hymn  had  been  sung,  the  opening  prayer  was  pronounced 
by  Elder  William  L.  Adamson,  President  of  the  Blaine  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Redeemer  of  Israel,  our  only 
delight." 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

I  wondered,  as  I  sat  in  the  stand  yesterday,  where  President  John 
M.  Knight  got  his  stentorian  voice.  If  I  knew1  where  such  voices  were 
manufactured,  I  think  I  should  go  and  get  one.  As  hq  stood  there  and 
spoke  to  the  congregation,  he  roared  like  a,  lion,  and  the  building  trem- 
bled. I  cannot  roar.  Nevertheless,  I  may  possibly  be  able  to  make  you 
hear',  if  I  speak  straight  ahead. 

I  was  speaking  to  one  brother  yesterday,  about  yes.erday  morning's 
meeting,  who  said,  "It  was  an  epoch  in  our  history  of  conferences."  I 
quite  agreed  with  him,  because  it  seemed  to  me  to  be  a  very  extraordi- 
nary meeting,  a  meeting  of  abounding  interest  to  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

LESSON  FROM  THE  HOLY  BIBLE 

Let  me  say,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  a 
blessed  people,  for  we  live  in  the  latter  days,  and  have  access  to  the 
lives  and  experiences  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  from  the  earliest 
ages.  For  example,  take  the  Holy  Bible  ;  it  is  one  of  the  most  precious 
books  of  the  world  today;  it  goes  back  to  the  very  beginning  and  is 
written  in  the  simplest,  purest  English.  It  deals  with  every  phase  of 
human  nature — both  good  and  bad.  It  is  a  work  of  great  literary  value, 
and,  although  it  sets  forth  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  its  Sfulness, 
which  is  its  principal  value,  it  nevertheless  reads  like  a  romance — so 
absorbing  is  the  story.  What  can  be  of  greater  interest  to  the  human 
family  than  the  story  of  Adam  and  Eve  in  the  Garden  of  Eden?  Thev 
were  our  first  parents,  the  root  from  which  we  sprang.  It  is  good  'o 
know  (his,  and  to  become  somewhat  familiar  with  their  history.  The 
Bible  tells  us  that  Adam  and  Eve  were  subjected  to  a  great  tempta- 
tion and  yielded,  that  is  to  say.  the  woman  yielded,  and  the  man,  volun- 
tarily shared  in  her  transgression.  This  experience  seemed  to  be  neces- 
sary for  them  to  have,  for  we  are  told  in  holy  writ  that  "Adam  fell  that 
man  might  be,  and  man  is  that  he  might  have  joy."  There  was,  there- 
fore, a  great  purpose  in  it.  The  story  tells  us  that  Cain,  one  of  Adam's 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


sons,  through  the  spirit  of  greed  and  jealousy,  rose  up  and  slew  his 
brother  Abel.  Thus  was  sin,  and  the  greatest  of  all  sins,  introduced  in- 
to the  world.  This  was  the  first  murder.  There  have  been  many  since. 
Many  generations  pass  away  before  we  come  to  Noah  and  the  flood. 
During  those  long  years,  the  children  of  Adam  multiplied  greatly ;  right- 
eousness they  followed  not,  but  were  steeped  in  all  manner  of  s;n  and 
debauchery.  Noah  the  prophet,  preached  to  them  the  gospel  of  re- 
pentance for  one  hundred  and  twenty  years,  but  his  message  and 
warning  were  rejected.  It  was  then  the  flood  came  and  cleansed  the 
earth  of  violence  and  wickedness. 

THE  THREE  GREAT  PATRIARCHS 

Most  absorbing  is  the  story  of  the  three  great  patriarchs :  Abra- 
ham, Isaac  and  Jacob.  They  were  indeed  noble  men.  The  Lord, 
Himself,  declared  that  He  was  the  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob. 
Did  man  ever  before  or  after,  receive  such  great  distinction?  Could 
greater  honor  have  been  conferred  upon  them?  Then,  we  should 
remember  that  the  integrity  and  faith  of  Abraham  was  so  great  thai 
the  Lord  put  upon  him  a  blessing,  under  oath,  saying,  that  unto  him 
and  his  children,  the  land  of  Canaan  should  be  given  and  that  in  him 
and  in  his  seed,  all  the  families  of  the  earth  should  be  blessed.  This 
same  glorious  promise  was  also  put  upon  Isaac  and  Jacob.  On  one 
occasion  Jacob  wrestled  with  an  angel  all  night,  and  would  not  let 
him  s;o  until  he  had  received  a  blessing.  The  angel  thereupon  said 
that  his  name  should  no  more  be  called  Jacob  but  Israel,  for.  said  he, 
as  a  prince  hast  thou  power  with  God  and  with  man,  and  hast  pre- 
vailed. Jacob  was  the  father  of  twelve  sons,  from  whom  sprang  the 
twelve  tribes  of  Israel.   We  are  of  Israel. 

THE  STORY  OF   JOSEPH   IN  EGYPT 

Who  can  read  the  story  of  Joseph  and  the  Children  of  Israel  in 
Egypt,  of  their  bondage,  and  of  their  deliverance  from  bondage 
by  ten  great  miracles,  without  being  touched  to  the  heart?  It  is  a 
fascinating  story,  brothers  and  sisters,  this  story  of  Joseph,  who  was 
sold  info  slavery  in  the  days  of  his  youth,  and  was  confronted  with 
a  great  and  lerrible  temofation  by  a  beautiful  woman.  He  resisted 
tbe  temptation,  and,  for  this  evidence  of  his  virtue,  he  was  cast  into 
prison.  After  two  vears,  be  was  brought  out  again,  and  almost  im- 
mediately, was  lifted  to  well  nigh  unlimited  authority  under  Pharaoh; 
and,  through  the  wisdom  that  was  given  him,  he  not  only  saved  Egypt, 
but  saved  his  father's  house  from  starvation  by  famine.  No  storv 
in  fiction  is  of  greater  interest,  and  certainly,  no  storv  of  fiction  is 
quite  as  profitable,  to  my  mind,  as  the  journeying  of  the  Children 
of  Israel  in  the  wilderness,  and  later,  of  tbeir  occupation  of  the 
Promised  Land,  or  Palestine. 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


47 


THE  KINGS  AND  PROPHETS 

The  vital  lessons  taught  by  the  disobedience  of  King  Saul  and 
of  the  humility  and  obedience  of  David  in  his  early  life,  and  of  his 
great  sin  in  later  life,  are  of  great  importance  to  the  world  and  most 
instructive. 

The  story  of  Daniel  and  the  three  Hebrews  in  Babylon  exhibits 
a  sublime  faith,  for,  notwithstanding  the  fact  they  were  condemned  to 
death  by  the  lions  and  by  fire,  nevertheless,  they  steadily  refused  to 
bow  down  to  man  but  continued  openly  to  worship  the  God  of  heaven ; 
and,  mark  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  the  God  of  heaven  rescued  them 
from  their  extremity.    Oh!  it  is  a  wonderful  lesson  indeed. 

The  great  and  wonderful  prophecies  of  Isaiah,  Ezekiel,  Moses, 
Jeremiah,  Daniel  and  others  give  a  value  to  the  Bible  that  cannot  be 
over-estimated. 

THE  STORY  OF  JESUS  CHRIST  MOST  WONDERFUL  OF  ALL 

But,  the  sweetest,  most  touching,  most  wonderful  story  of  all  the 
wonderful  stories  in  the  Bible,  is  the  story  of  Jesus  Christ  and  His  min- 
istry in  Jerusalem.  In  that  story  is  set  forth  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
in  its  fulness,  with  all  of  its  gifts,  rites  and  powers,  and  Priesthood,  that 
will  save  and  exalt  men  in  eternal  glory,  if  they  will  but  repent  and, 
render  obedience  to  it.  Here  also  is  given  an  account  of  the  organi- 
zation of  the  true  Church  of  God,  consisting  of  apostles,  prophets, 
pastors,  teachers,  high  priests,  seventies,  elders,  priests,  teachers  and 
deacons.  There  is  nothing  in  literature,  brethren  and  sisters,  thai 
is  quite  comparable  to  the  parables  of  Jesus — so  simple,  so  direct,  so 
profound,  so  God-like.  They  seem  almost  to  cover  our  human  ex- 
perience. 

The  greatest  event,  however,  in  the  life  of  the  Savio:-,  was  the 
crucifixion  upon  Mount  Calvary,  for  therein  did  He  give  His  life 
in  atonement  for  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  by  this  sacrifice — the 
greatest  sacrifice  ever  witnessed — he  has  drawn  us  to  Him  and  put  us 
under  an  obligation  of  eternal  duration. 

The  lives  and  acts  of  the  apostles  of  Jesus,  who  preached  the 
gospel  extensively,  and  who,  in  the  end,  were  martyred,  like  their 
Master,  teaches  a  lesson  that  will  bear  fruit  to  the  end  of  time- 

IMPORTANCE  OF  THE  STUDY   OF  THE  BIBLE 

I  have  thus  spoken  of  the  Bible  to  emphasize  the  importance  of 
its  study,  which,  if  mastered,  would  be  quite  equal,  I  am  sure,  to  a 
college  education.  This  holy  record  has  come  down  to  us,  under  the 
providence  of  the  Lord,  through  the  years.  It  is  a  most  precious  treas- 
use  and  will  be  found  in  nearly  every  household,  but  I  ferr  it  is  hot 
read  as  often,  and  is  not  pondered  over  as  deeply,  by  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  as  it  should  be.  God  has  given  us  His  word  and  He  will  no*, 
be  mocked. 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


MODERN  SCRIPTURE  OF  EQUAL  VALUE 

.  In  the  brief  talk  that  I  have  made  this  morning,  I  have  said! 
nothing  about  the  Book  of  Mormon,  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  the 
Pearl  of  Great  Price,  standard  Church  works,  which  are  of  equal 
value  to  the  Bible,  and  should  have  our  closest  and  most  careful  at- 
tention. The  Lord  has  poured  down  from  above  and  brought  up  from 
beneath  a  flood  of  light  and  truth  for  the  benefit  of  mankind  and  we 
should  remember  that  he  reigns  in  the  heavens  and  holds  in  his  hand 
the  destinies  of  the  earth.  He  will  not  condone  ignorance,  for  "the 
glory  of  God  is  intelligence,"  and  if  we  would  be  like  him,  we  must 
become  intelligent. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  may  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  do  our 
duty  by  keeping  His  commandments  and  by  studying  His  word.  This 
is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  hope  that  you  are  enjoying  this  Conference  as  much  as  I  am. 
I  sat  here  yesterday  and  rejoiced  in  the  good  things  we  listened  to. 
This  morning,  the  same  spirit  is  present,  and  I  sincerely  desire 
that  I  may  be  blessed  of  the  Lord  to  say  something  that  will  be 
helpful. 

GODS  PROMISE  TO  THE  TEACHER 

The  responsibility  of  standing  in  the  presence  of  a  congrega- 
tion like  this,  about  ten  thousand  people,  is  great,  and  yesterday 
Dr.  Thomas  Nixon  Carver,  of  Harvard,  so  expressed  himself. 
President  Walter  E.  Clark,  of  the  Nevada  University,  and  President 
Charles  A.  Lory,  of  the  Colorado  Agricultural  College,  felt  the 
responsibility  of  standing  here  without  preparation  when  they 
were  suddenly  called  to  speak.  The  Latter-day  Saints  have  been 
admonished  to  put  their  trust  in  the  Lord  when  they  arc  called  to 
advocate  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  year  1832,  elders 
were  advised  not  to  take  thought  beforehand  what  they  should 
say,  but  to  treasure  up  in  their  minds  continually  (be  words  of 
life  with  the  assurance  that  they  would  be  inspired  to  mete  out 
what  was  needed  to  every  man.  I  take  it  for  granted  that  applies 
to  all  Israel ;  so  you  men  who  are  presidents  of  stakes  and  bishops 
of  wards — when  you  stand  in  the  presence  of  your  flock,  if  you 
have  stored  your  mind,  as  our  heavenly  Father  indicated  should, 
be  done,  you  have  the  promise  from  Him  that  He  will  give  to 
you  and  to  the  congregation,  what  is  necessary  for  that  particular 
occasion. 


EIDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  49 


COMPLIMENTS  FROM  PROMINENT  VISITORS 

Yesterday  we  received  compliments  from  our  visiting  edu- 
cators, previously  named,,  that  were  surely  gratifying.  It  was 
very  interesting  to  me  to  see  how1  they  partook  of  the  spirit  of  our 
gathering.  I  have  often  observed,  and  I  think  most  of  you  who 
have  had  missionary  experience,  will  bear  me  out,  that  no  good 
man  or  woman  can  come  under  the  influence  of  the  faithful  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  with- 
hold their  commendations  of  what  they  observe  while  with  us.  When 
they  leave  us,  sometimes  it  is  different,  but  while  they  are  under  that 
influence  that  comes  from  the  Lord,  possessed  by  His  servants,  who  are 
serving  Him,  they  are  usually  pleased  to  commend  what  they  have 
seen  and  felt.  That  was  a  wonderful  compliment  that  was  paid  us 
yesterday  by  Dr.  Carver,  who  is  a  student  of  political  economy  and 
national  history.  He  said  (I  am  not  going  to  try  to  quote  him 
but  I  am  going  to  quote  the  impression  he  gave  me)  that  if  he 
were  looking  for  information  as  lo  how  to  build  a  real  common- 
wealth or#  empire,  he  would  come  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  in 
this  part  of  America.  If  he  and  other  great  men  would  learn  that 
it  was  not  man's  wisdom  that  planned  what  he  saw  here,  but  that 
it  was  inspired  by  our  heavenly  Father,  they  would  realize,  as 
we  do,  that  it  is  not  only  the  best  plan  by  which  to  build  an  empire 
in  this  world,  but  a  sure  foundation  for  eternal  happiness  in  the 
world  to  come, 

MF^T  ARE  REACHING  OUT  FOR  THE  SPIRITUAL 

President  Grant  read,  yesterday,  an  extract  from  the  annual 
report  of  President  Nicholas  Murray  Butler,  of  Columbia  Univer- 
sity, for  1920,  that  calls  our  attention  to  the  fact  that  men  are 
thinking  seriously,  and  they  are  looking  out  for  something  dif- 
ferent from  what  the  world  already  has.  I  believe  I  will  read  a 
paragraph  cr  two  from  the  same  report : 

"There  can  be  no  cure  for  the  world's  ills  and  no  abatement  of  the  world's 
discontents  until  faith  and  the  rule  of  everlasting  princip'e  are  again  restored 
and  made  supreme  in  the  life  of  men  and  of  nations.  These  millions  of  man- 
made  gods,  these  myriads  of  personal  idols,  must  be  broken  up  and  destroyed, 
and  the  heart  and  mind  of  man  brought  back  to  a  comprehension  of  the  real 
meaning  of  faith  and  its  place  in  life.  This  cannot  be  done  by  exhortation  or 
by  preaching  alone.  It  must  be  done  also  by  teaching ;  careful,  systematic, 
rational  teaching,  that  will  show  in  a  simple  language  which  the  uninstructed 
can  understand  what  are  the  essentials  of  a  permanent  and  lofty  morality,  of 
a  stable  and  just  social  order,  and  of  a  secure  and  sublime  religious  faith. 

"Here  we  come  upon  the  whole  great  problem  of  national  education,  its 
successes  and  its  disappointments,  its  achievements  and  its  problems  yet  un- 
solved. Education  is  not  merely  instruction — far  from  it.  It  is  the  leading  of 
the  youth  out  into  a  comprehension  of  his  environment,  that,  comprehending, 
he  may  so  act  and  so  conduct  himself  as  to  leave  the  world  better  and  happier 
for  his  having  lived  in  it.  This  environment  is  not  by  any  means  a  material 
thing  alone.    It  is  material,  of  course,  but,  in  addition,  it  is  intellectual,  it  is 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


spiritual.  The  youth  who  is  led  to  an  understanding  of  nature  and  of  eco- 
nomics and  left  blind  and  deaf  to  the  appeals  of  literature,  of  art,  of  morals 
and  of  religion,  has  been  shown  but  a  part  of  that  great  environment  which 
is  his  inheritance  as  a  human  being.  The  school  and  the  college  do  much,  but 
the  school  and  the  college  cannot  do  all.  Since  Protestantism  broke  up  the 
solidarity  of  the  ecclesiastical  organization  in  the  western  world,  and  since  de- 
mocracy made  intermingling  of  state  and  church  impossib'e,  it  has  been  neces- 
sary, if  religion  is  to  be  saved  for  men,  that  the  family  and  the  church  do  their 
vital  cooperative  part  in  a  national  organization  of  educational  effort.  The 
school,  the  family  and  the  Church  are  three  cooperative  educational  agencies, 
each  of  which  has  its  weight  of  responsibility  to  bear.  If  the  family  be  weak- 
ened in  respect  to  its  moral  and  spiritual  basis,  or  if  the  Church  be  neglectful 
of  its  obligation  to  offer  systematic,  continuous  and  convincing  relig'ious  in- 
struction to  the  young  who  are  within  its  sphere  of  influence,  there  can  be 
no  hope  for  a  Christian  education  or  for  the  powerful  perpetuation  of  the 
Christian-  faith  in  the  minds  and  lives  of  the  next  generation  and  those  im- 
mediately to  follow.  We  are  trustees  of  a  great  inheritance.  If  we  abuse 
or  neglect  that  trust  wc  are  responsible  before  Almighty  God  for  the  infinite 
damage  that  wi'l  be  done  in  the  life  of  individuals  and  of  nations." 

THE  DANGER  T!  I    T  CONFRONTS  THE  WORLD 

I  rejoice  to  find  mc  who  are  thinking,  as  that  man  thinks, 
of  the  necessity  of  spiritual  education.  The  danger  that  confronts 
this  world  today  is  similar  to  that  of  the  ages  past.  Calamity  has 
overtaken  the  nations  where  men  and  women  have  departed  from 
the  teaching  of  the  true  and  living  God  and  have  accepted  the 
philosophies  of  uninspired  men  ihstead.  Having  turned  away 
from  those  glorious  truths  that  emanate  from  the  source  of  all 
knowledge,  they  have  been  led  captive  by  the  fallacies  of  those  who 
have  set  themselves  up  as  wiser  than  their  Creator. 

History  repeats  itself.  We  read  in  the  Old  Testament  the 
circumstances  that  surrounded  the  people  at  the  time  of  the  flood. 
We  are  informed  that  they  were  not  destroyed  tmtil  they  had 
been  fully  warned.  For  one  hundred  and  twenty  years  Noah,  a 
prophet  of  God,  went  to  and  fro  among  the  people,  calling  on  them 
to  abandon  their  wickedness.  He  warned  them  that  unless  they 
repented  of  their  sins  and  turned  to  the  Lord,  destruction  would 
overtake  them.  One  hundred  and  twenty  years  of  pleading  to  do 
right  was  followed  by  the  flood  that  destroyed  all  flesh  not  pre- 
served in  the  ark.  Bcause  Noah  was  indeed  a  prophet  of  God, 
and  had  only  told  the  people  what  the  Lord  had  directed,  his 
promise  was  fulfilled,  he  was  vindicated,  and  the  earth  received 
its  baptism  of  water.  Only  the  little  handful  that  believed  in  the 
prophet  of  God  and  listened  to  his  wise  counsels,  were  saved. 

WARNING  MESSENGERS 

Yesterday  President  Ivins  informed  us  that  we  have  had  60,- 
080  missionaries  go  out  from  this  Church  into  the  world,  since 
1830.  Think  of  it,  more  than  sixty  thousand  men,  possessing  divine 
authority,  imbued  with  a  desire  to  save  humanity  from  the  calam- 
ity that  threatened ;  men  who  have  paid  their  own  expenses,  and 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


51 


with  a  burning  desire  in  their  souls  to  uplift  mankind,  have  gone 
to  the  ends  of  the  earth  calling  attention  to  the  fact  that  there  is 
only  one  true  and  living  God,  proclaiming  the  divine  mission  of 
the  risen  Redeemer,  giving  of  their  time  and  their  talents  and  all 
that  God  has  given  to  them,  to  the  end  that  the  world  might  be 
spared  the  distresses  that  have  overtaken  it  in  the  ages  that  are 
past.  Now  the  average  mission  is  about  two  years,  that  means 
more  than  one  hundred  twenty  thousand  years  of  individual  serv- 
ice, instead  of  one  hundred  twenty  years;  and  if  the  Lord,  after 
one  hundred  twenty  years  teaching  the  truth  through  His  servant 
Noah,  found  it  necessary,  because  of  the  wickedness  of  men,  to 
destroy  all  but  eight,  it  is  not  surprising  to  me  that,  after  one 
hundred  twenty  thousand  years  of  preaching  the  gospel  among 
the  children  of  men,  and  their  refusal  to  accept  the  truth  as  it 
has  been  delivered  in  this  latter  day,  the  sorrows  of  the  world  are 
multiplying.  Think  of  the  condition  of  humanity  today.  On  every 
hand  men  are  suspicious  of  one  another;  nation  is  jealous  of  na- 
tion, the  pursuit  of  wealth  and  popularity  occupy  much  of  the  at- 
tention of  the  majority.  Immorality,  murder,  robbery  and  suicide 
appear  to  increase,  and  unless  the  people  of  the  earth  reform  their 
lives,  destruction  is  sure  to  follow,  for  the  Lord  has  declared  it. 
Where,  in  the  world,  will  you  go  to  find  a  people  such  as  the  one 
that  you  are  a  part  of,  most  of  whom  have  placed  their  all  upon 
the  altar,  where  nearly  all  of  those  who  have  been  called  into  serv- 
ice have  said,  in  substance:  "Here,  Lord,  am  I,  what  would  you 
have  me  do?" 

At  the  present  time  the  world  is  in  distress,  not  because  of 
shortage  of  food,  nor  for  lack  of  money,  not  because  there  is  not 
clothing  enough ;  but  because  of  the  suspicion  that  is  in  the  hearts 
of  men;  the  distrust  that  everywhere  prevails  and  the  determina- 
tion on  the  part  of  the  few  to  possess  more  than  they  can  possibly 
enjoy.  Fortunately  for  us  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  taught 
us  a  better  way,  and  in  His  great  mercy  our  Lord  continues  to 
teach  us  and  bless  us.  My  soul  rejoices  as  I  look  over  these  great 
mountains  and  valleys,  and  I  realize  that  this  is  the  heritage  of 
the  sons  and  daughters  of  God,  gathered  from  (he  nations  of  the 
earth.  They  have  heard  the  warning  voice- — "Come  out  of  her, 
my  people,  that  ye  be  not  partakers  of  her  sins,  and  that  ye  re- 
ceive not  of  her  plagues.  "Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  His 
righteousness"  has  been  the  cry  that  has  rung  in  the  ears  of  modern 
Israel,  and  because  they  have  received  a  witness  that  the  gospel 
has  been  restored  again ;  because  they  have  learned  for  them- 
selves that  God  really  does  speak  to  his  children  upon  the  earth, 
men  and  women  by  thousands  have  been  willing  to  part  company 
with  those  with  whom  they  have  associated  and  loved,  and  leave 
the  homes  of  their  ancestors  to  cast  their  lot  with  this  much  mis- 
represented and  despised  people.    And  they  have  lived  to  realize 


52  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

the  remainder  of  the  promise,  "And  all  these  things  shall  be 
added,"  for  surely  the  material  blessings  of  life  have  been  be- 
stowed upon  us. 

OUR  BLESSINGS  AND  OBLIGATIONS 

When  we  look  back  over  the  record  of  the  past  and  think 
that  since  the  year  1830,  with  a  little  organization  of  six  members, 
unpopular  then  as  it  is  now  and  opposed  by  the  adversary  in  every 
possible  way,  glorious  truths  of  the  eternal  gospel  have  been  dis- 
seminated and  accepted  by  men  and  women  anxious  to  serve  God, 
the  teaching  of  the  humble  elders  has  appealed  to  their  reason, 
with  the  result  that  from  that  nucleus  of  six  has  developed  a 
Church  of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  our  Father's  children,  created 
in  His  image,  whose  spirits  were  created  by  Him,  who  have  earned 
the  right  to  come  into  the  world  to  work  out  their  eternal  exalta- 
tion. These  have  joined  the  Church  and  have  been  willing  to  in 
cur  the  unkind  feelings  of  former  friends  and  the  hatred  of  the 
world,  in  order  that  they  might  please  their  heavenly  Father  and 
obtain  eternal  happiness  in  His  celestial  kingdom.  It  is  true  that 
you  will  not  find  in  any  place  else  in  the  world  so  perfect  a  form  of 
government  as  has  been  given  to  the  Church  with  which  we  are 
identified.  This  is  the  Lord's  way ;  Joseph  Smith  did  not,  of  his 
own  wisdom,  lay  the  foundation  for  this  Church;  Brigham  Young, 
of  his  own  wisdom  did  not  plan  what  we  behold  in  these  valleys ; 
those  men  were  inspired  by  the  same  power  that  directed  Moses 
when  he  led  ancient  Israel  into  the  wilderness.  The  same  Father 
in  heaven  lives  today,  His  power  prevails  and  the  evidence  of  it 
is  seen  in  the  development  of  His  children.  While  we  enjoy  all 
these  wonderful  blessings,  we  do  not  feel  to  criticise  those  who 
do  not  comprehend  the  truth,  we  do  not  feel  to  find  fault  with  the 
men  and  women  of  other  churches  or  out  of  the  churches  who 
cannot  understand ;  but,  on  the  contrary,  the  gospel  teaches  us 
to  have  charity  for  all  and  to  love  our  fellows.    The  Savior  said: 

"Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and 
with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind,  this  is  the  first  and  great 
commandment. 

"And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor 
as  thyself.  On  these  two  commandments"  hang  all  the  law  and 
the  prophets." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  if  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  delivered 
to  you,  has  not  planted  that  feeling  of  love  in  your  hearts  for 
your  fellow  men,  then  I  want  to  say  that  you  have  not  enjoyed 
the  full  fruition  of  that  wonderful  gift  that  came  to  earth  when 
this  Church  was  organized.  As  I  go  to  and  fro  in  the  earth  and 
find  opportunity  to  mingle  with  our  Father's  children  in  various 
lands  and  climes,  many  of  them  honored  because  of  their  intellect 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  S3 

i 

and  because  of  their  virtues,  I  rejoice  to  realize  that  these  are  our 
brothers  and  sisters.  It  is  to  them  that  the  gospel  has  been  sent, 
a,nd  upon  us,  as  elders  of  this  Church,  has  been  laid  the  obligation 
to  go  into  all  the  world  and  preach  the  gospel  unto  every  creature. 
We  have  received  a  wonderful  gift,  but  with  that  gift  comes  a 
great  responsibility.  We  have  been  blessed  of  the  Lord  with  a 
knowledge  beyond  our  fellows,  and  with  that  knowledge  comes 
the  requirement  that  we  divide  it  with  His  children  wherever  they 
may  be.  So,  while  we  are  here  comfortably  situated  in  the1  valleys 
of  these  great  mountains — as  communities  by  ourselves,  in  many 
cases,  we  must  not  forget  that  wherever  the  sun  shines  our 
Father's  children  are  there.  We  must  not  forget  that  wherever 
His  children  are,  He  is  seeking  after  them.  He  is  desirous  that 
they  should  know  Him.  He  is  anxious  that  they  should  have  tak- 
en from  their  minds  the  delusions  that  have  been  placed  there 
by  the  adversary  of  all  righteousness.  For  that  reason,  He  has  be- 
stowed upon  men  in  this  latter  day,  a  knowledge  of  the  old  gospel, 
and  has  required  us  to  disseminate  His  truth  among  His 
children  wherever  opportunity  offers.  It  is  not  an  easy  task;  it 
is  not  a  pleasant  thing,  perhaps,  to  be  called  out  into  the  world, 
to  leave  our  dear  ones,  but  I  say  to  you  that  it  will  purchase  for 
those  who  are  faithful,  for  those  who  discharge  that  obligation  as 
they  may  be  required,  peace  and  happiness  beyond  all  under- 
standing, and  will  prepare  them  that,  in  due  time,  when  life's 
labor  is  complete,  they  will  stand  in  the  presence  of  their  Maker, 
accepted  of  Him  because  of  what  they  have  done. 

THE  WORLD  IN  NEED  OF  OUR  MINISTRY 

We  must  not  be  idle.  This  world  is  in  need  of  our  ministry. 
Our  Father's  children  everywhere  are  anxious  to  know  what  they 
should  do,  but,  by  reason  of  the  evil  influences  that  have  pervaded 
the  earth,  they  have  been  deceived ;  honorable  men  of  the  earth 
are  blinded  to  the  truth ;  and  the  adversary  continues  with  his 
work,  destroying,  not  individuals  alone,  but,  as  in  the  great  war 
that  recently  filled  all  nations  with  alarm,  millions  of  God's  chil- 
dren are  wiped  out  and  millions  more  are  made  miserable.  The 
adversary  is  at  work,  and  the  only  power  that  can  neutralize  his 
influence  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  churches  of  the  world 
are  trying,  in  their  way,  to  bring  peace  into  the  hearts  of  men. 
They  are  possessed  of  many  virtues  and  many  truths,  and  accom- 
plish much  good,  but  they  are  not  divinely  authorized.  Neither 
have  their  priests  been  divinely  commissioned. 

ADVICE  TO  THE  HEARERS  OF  OUR  MESSAGE 

I  want  to  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  when  the  boy 
Prophet  knelt  in  the  woods  and  when  he  asked  the  Father  of  us 
all  which  of  the  churches  he  should  join,  .he  was  warned  that 


54 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE. 


he  should  join  none  of  them,  "For,''  said  the  Lord,  "they  worship 
me  with  their  lips,  but  their  hearts  are  far  from  me.  They  teach 
for  doctrine  the  commandments  of  men.  They  have  a  form  of  god- 
liness, but  they  deny  the  power  thereof."  When  the  Lord  said 
that,  he  was  not  condemning  all  his  children,  but  he  was  stating 
the  truth  that  has  been  manifested  since  the  gospel  was  restored. 
When  He  organized  His  Church,  it  was  not  intended  that  men 
should  be  discouraged  or  disappointed,  who  had  joined  other 
churches,  but  it  was  desired  that  all  the  virtues,  all  the  blessings 
that  were  worth  while,  all  the  truth  that  they  had  acquired  in 
their  church  organizations  might  remain  with  them  and  that  they 
might  take  it  with  them  when  they  embraced  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ- — verily  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  We  have  never 
asked  any  good  Catholic:,  Methodist  or  Presbyterian  to  give  up 
any  virtue  or  truth  that  has  been  possessed  by  him  in  the  organi- 
zation with  which  he  has  been  identified,  but  with  all  the  power 
that  a  numerically  weak  organization  could  exert  we  have  said 
to  the  men  and  women  of  this  world :  Keep  all  the  good  that  you 
have  acquired,  and  go  to  the  Lord  in  mighty  prayer  and  learn 
from  Him  and  that  His  gospel  has  again  been  restored  upon  the  earth. 
Learn  from  Him  that  His  truth  is  here  and  that  there  are  men  liv- 
ing who  possess  divine  authority  conferred  by  Him.  Go  to  Him. 
Go  to  the  Lord,  and  ask  Him  that  you  may  know  the  proper 
course  to  pursue.  Surely  intelligent  men  can  see  that  all  these 
various  deviating  paths  cannot  lead  back  into  the  presence  of  our 
Lord,  but  there  is  a  path  and  He  who  marked  it  out  has  all  power 
in  heaven  and  earth.  He  has  ordained  that  His  gospel  should  be 
proclaimed  to  His  children  not  in  unkindness,  not  in  harshness 
but  with  love  unfeigned,  that  they  may,  before  it  is  too  late, 
investigate  His  truth  and  turn  from  the  error  of  their  ways  and 
be  wor;hy  to  be  received  by  Him  when  the  time  comes  for  Him  to 
establish  Hio  kingdom. 

WHAT  THE  WORLD  NEEDS 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  in  the  opportunity  that  has 
come  to  me.  I  am  grateful  for  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  I  am 
thankful  for  the  companionship  of  my  brothers  and  sisters  in  this 
Church.  I  appreciate  the  opportunity  to  meet,  from  time  to  time,  in- 
telligent men  in  the  world,  who,  like  the  president  of  Columbia 
University,  see  that  this  great  nation  must  reform,  that  there  is 
need  for  the  people  of  this  world  to  retrace  their  steps  and  get 
back  to  the  foundation  that  was  laid  by  the  Master  of  heaven  and 
earth,  the  foundation  of  faith,  repentance  and  baptism  by  immer- 
sion for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  the  reception  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
under  the  hands  of  those  possessing  divine  authority.  That  is 
what  the  world  needs.  I  am  grateful  indeed  that  many  are  looking 
that  way.    They  have  been  going  blindly  along  a  pathway  that 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  55 


has  led  to  sorrow  and  distress,  but  there  has  been  placed  within 
reach  a  remedy  for  all  ills — the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  There  has 
been  mapped  out  for  all  a  path  that,  while  it  is  narrow,  and  dif- 
ficult to  follow,  leads  back  to  the  Father  of  us  all ;  and  there  is 
no  other  path  that  leads  there.  Knowing  that,  how  grateful  we 
should  be  that  there  has  come  to  us  in  these  latter  days,  a  knowl- 
edge of  this  truth,  and  oh,  how  happy  we  ought  to  be  that  we  are 
permitted  to  partake  of  itL 

That  the  Lord  may  add  His  blessing;  that  the  knowledge  of 
this  glorious  truth  may  burn  in  our  hearts :  that  we  may  jnot  be 
led  to  the  right  nor  to  the  left,  by  the  cunning  craftiness  of  the 
adversary,  but  day  by  day,  with  faith  planted  in  our  souls,  that 
we  may  go  forward,  with  a  desire  to  be  worthy  of  Him,  in  whose 
likeness  we  are,  desirous  of  leading  back  to  Him,  all  His  children 
wherever  they  may  be;  and  in  the  end.  as  a  result  of  our  faith  and 
devotion,  we  may  find  many  of  His  sons  and  daughters  gathered 
into  His  glorious  kingdom,  to  be  our  companions  throughout  the 
ages  of  eternity,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  sacred  solo  entitled,  "Come,  come  to  me,"  was  sung  by  Louise 
Watson. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

I  realize,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  is  a  splendid  oppor- 
tunity afforded  to  deliver  a  message  to  the  people,  there  being  so 
many  in  attendance.  I  also  realize,  somewhat,  the  responsibility  of 
such  an  undertaking  and  almost  feel  to  shrink  from  the  responsibility. 

It  is  my  purpose  to  occupy  but  a  few  moments,  and  while  doing  so 
I  desire  the  faith  and  prayers  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  present.  I 
am  very  glad  to  be  able  to  say  that  my  feelings  have  been  in  perfect 
accord  with  the  spirit  and  instructions  of  the  conference,  both  yes- 
terday and  today. 

WE  CARRY  OUR  RELIGION  INTO  OUR  DAILY  WORK 

I  desire  to  refer  briefly  to  some  of  the  statemejnts  made  by  one 
of  our  honored  visitors  who  spoke  briefly  in  the  conference  yester- 
day morning.  I  refer  to  the  remarks  of  Mr.  Lory,  from  Colorado, 
in  which  he  stated  that  we  must  learn  to  carry  our  religion  into  our 
every  day  work. 

If  there  is  any  one  thing  that  we  have  tried  to  impress  upon 
the  minds  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  from  the  beginning,  it  has  been 
the  necessity  for  carrying  our  religion  into  our  daily  work,  and  I  be- 
lieve there  is  no  other  people  upon  the  earth  who  has  so  fully  and 
well  accomplished  this  as  have  the  Latter-day  Saints ;  yet,  I  realize 
that  there  is  opportunity  for  much  improvement.    Our  understanding 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


is  not  that  we  are  here  upon  the  earth  for  the  purpose  of  accumulat- 
ing the  wealth  of  this  world,  with  which  to  purchase  the  luxuries  and 
pleasures  of  life.  Our  purpose  here  is  more  exalting,  these  other 
things,  temporal,  being  but  a  means  to  a  nobler  end. 


In  conversation  with  some  prominent  people  in  Arizona  a  few 
years  ago,  while  paying  a  visit  to  the  Roosevelt  dam,  when  it  was 
in  course  of  construction,  the  leading  draftsman  upon  the  works 
asked  me  this  question:  "How  is  it,  Mr.  Richards,  that  your  people 
are  so  successful  as  colonizers  and  pioneers?"  The  ajnswer  came  to 
me  very  readily,  "Because,  with  us,  it  is  a  religious  principle,"  and 
then  I  proceeded  to  explain  that  we  pioneer  new  countries  and 
colonize— not  from  a  selfish  viewpoint,  but  that  we  may  prepare  a 
place  for  those  who  gather  in  fulfilment  of  the  predictions  of  the 
prophets,  to  assist  in  the  establishment  of  God's  kingdom  upon  the 
earth ;  that  our  religion  is  one  of  service  and  helpfulness  to  one  an- 
other, and  this  is  one  of  the  means  by  which  we  are  able  to  manifest 
it. 


Another  remark  of  Mr.  Lory's  was,  that  all  that  he  observed 
pertaining  to  our  people  and  of  this  city  of  Salt  Lake  and  of  this 
tabernacle,  the  construction  of  which  President  Grant  had  briefly 
explained  as  an  evidence  of  the  wisdom  of  the  president  of  the 
Church  who  designed  it,  were  on  the  positive  side.  That  made  an  im- 
pression upon  my  mind ;  and  I  thought,  too,  that  our  religion  is  a 
positive  religion,  from  beginning  to  end ;  that  those  who  are  in  op- 
position to  us  and  the  doctrines  which  we  teach  are  negative:  We 
affirm  and  they  deiny.  You  may  take  the  principles  and  ordinances, 
one  by  one,  as  we  declare  their  necessity  for  man's  salvation  anid 
exaltation,  and  you  will  find  this  principle  involved,  and  the  same 
with  the  gospel  as  a  whole.  It  is  a  satisfaction  to  one  to  have  been 
right  on  any  question,  and  a  disappointment  to  have  been  wrong ; 
and  the  greater  and  more  important  the  question  involved,  the  greater 
the  satisfaction  or  the  disappointment  as  the  case  may  be.  There  is 
no  other  question  so  great,  that  has  moved  the  people  of  the  world  in 
different  dispensations  as  that  of  religion  or  salvation.  What  does 
salvation  mejJn?  How  is  it  to  be  obtained?  The  religion  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  answers  these  questions  perfectly.  It  is  the  divi- 
sion upon  this  question  that  has  made  the  various  religious  organi- 
zations that  are  upon  the  earth  today.  If  there  is  a  God  in  heaven, 
and  there  is ;  and  if  the  soul  of  man  is  immortal,  and  it  is,  the  time 
will  come  when  these  facts  will  be  generally  known.  If  the  gospel 
which  we  have  received  alnd  are  teaching  to  the  world  is  indeed  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  only  true  plan  of  life  and  salvation,  and 
it  is,  the  time  will  come  when  men  and  women  generally  will  know 


WHY   THE   SAINTS    ARE   SUCCESSFUL  PIONEERS 


OUR  RELIGION  A  POSITIVE  RELIGION 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


57 


this  fact.  Then  the  disappointment  of  those  who  have  rejected  the 
prophets  of  this  day  and  the  revelations  which  God  has  given  us,  by 
which  men  and  women  might  be  saved,  will  be  supremely  great ;  while 
the  satisfaction  of  those  who  have  accepted  the  gospel,  and  have 
made  it  the  guiding  star  in  their  lives,  will  be  correspondingly  great. 

NEED  OF  PROFITING  BY  THE  EXPERIENCE  OF  OTHERS 

"History  repeats  itself."  We  are  told  that,  "Experience  is  a  dear 
school,  but  that  fools  will  learn  in  no  other."  I  think  we  may  apply 
this  to  individuals  and  peoples,  alike.  Not  only  should  we  learn  from 
our  own  experience  and  from  things  which  we  may  read  and  study 
from  books  and  which  may  be  told  us  by  those  who  have  the  authori- 
ty to  interpret  the  mind  and  will  of  God,  but  we  should  profit  by  the 
experiences  of  others.  It  has  been  a  weakness  of  mankind,  from  the 
beginning,  that  we  will  not  profit  by  the  experiences  of  others;  we 
must  experience  these  things  ourselves.  Several  references  have  been 
made  already  in  this  conference  to  the  destruction  of  the  ante-dilu- 
vians,  because  of  their  wickedness  and  because  they  rejected  the  mes- 
sage and  messengers  sent  to  them  of  the  Lord.  It  does  seem  that 
in  nearly  every  dispensation  the  people  have  not  been  prepared  for 
that  which  God  has  had  to  give  them,  notwithstanding  He,  who 
knows  the  end  from  the  beginning,  has  raised  up  prophets  who  have 
foretold  the  coming  of  events.  So,  it  was  with  the  ante-diluvians, 
and  they  were  swept  from  off  the  earth  with  a  flood.  We  should 
not  stop  there,  in  considering  the  seriousness  of  the  consequences  of 
their  rejecting  the  prophets  and  the  gospel  which  was  sent  to  them. 
We  are  told  in  the  third  chapter  of  First  Peter,  that  Christ  went  and 
preached  to  those  people  who  were  disobedient  in  the  days  of  Noah, 
while  the  ark  was  a  preparing.  They  had  been  shut  up  in  prison, 
so  characterized  by  Isaiah  aJixl  others  of  the  prophets  for  about 
twenty-four  hundred  years.  Just  the  character  of  their  imprison- 
ments, I  do  not  understand ;  but  one  of  our  Book  of  Mormon  proph- 
ets speaks  of  it  as  a  fearful,  awful,  looking  forward  to  the  time 
when  the  fiery  indignation  of  the  wrath  of  God  should  be  poured  out 
upon  them.  Then  we  should  remember  this,  too,  which  the  Lord  has 
revealed  through  the  prophet  Joseph,  found  recorded  in  the  76th 
Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  that  those  of  the  terrestrial 
kingdom,  of  which  the  moon  is  typical,  include  those  who  were  dis- 
obedient in  the  days  of  Noah.  When  we  think  of  their  physical  de- 
struction, their  spiritual  imprisonment,  and  their  being  consigned  to 
the  terrestrial  kingdom,  we  are  impressed  with  the  seriousness  of  their 
mistake  and  the  greatness  of  their  disappointment.  It  is  a  terrible 
thing  to  reject  the  prophets  and  their  message.  All  the  dispensations 
since  that  time,  should  have  profited  by  the  unwise  course  and  con- 
duct of  this  people  and  the  wisdom  of  the  conduct  of  Noah  and  his 
family,  who  were  true  and  faithful.  The  cities  of  Sodom  and 
Gommorrah  were  burned  by  fire  because  of  the  wickedness  of  the 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


people  and  because  they  rejected  the  messsengers  that  had  been  sent 
them  of  the  Lord.  The  same  old  story,  and  if  we  knew  the  further 
results,  we  would,  perhaps,  discover  that  they  would  be  in  the  same 
class  with  those  alnte-diluvians  who  were  destroyed  by  the  flood. 

There  is  the  case  of  Jonah's  preaching  to  the  great  city  of  Nine- 
veh. This  shows  the  other  side  of  the  picture;  how  through 
conversion  and  repentance  of  the  people,  from  the  king  upon  his 
throne  to  the  least  member  of  that  great  city,  the  wrath  of  God  and 
His  judgments  were  turned  aside  and  the  people  and  the  city  were 
spared. 

We  come  to  Jerusalem.  The  Lord  sent  Lehi,  Jeremiah  and 
other  prophets,  to  tell  the  people  of  their  wickedness,  and  call 
them  to  repentance  but  their  message  was  rejected  and  the  city  was 
destroyed.  Again,  when  the  Savior  came,  in  the  meridian  of  time, 
lie  came  to  His  own  but  His  own  received  Him  not,  and  they  were 
cursed  and  scattered  and  became  a  hiss  and  a  byword  among  all 
nations.  As  a  rule  the  word  of  the  Lord,  the  gospel  of  Christ,  has 
not  been  popular,  it  has  been  rejected  by  all  except  a  few.  It  was  so 
in  the  days  of  Isaiah,  who  said,  "Lord,  who  hath  believed  our  report?" 
or  the  equivalent  of  saying,  "Lord,  not  many  have  received  the 
gospel" ;  and  in  the  New  Testament,  we  read  of  the  days  of  Christ, 
"Not  all  have  obeyed  the  gospel,  for,  as  Esaias  saith,  'Lord  who  hath 
believed  our  report?'" 

THE  MESSAGE  OF  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

The  Lord  has  raised  up  a  prophet  in  these  last  days,  and  he 
has  been  succeeded  by  other  prophets,  who  have  led  this  people,  as 
the  Lord's  mouth-piece,  not  only  to  the  chosen  people  of  the  Lord,  but 
to  the  whole  world ;  and  for  almost  a  century,  we  have  been  trying 
to  convince  the  world  that  God  has  spoken  from  the  heavens ;  that 
He  has  revealed  Himself  and  His  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  the 
Father  is  indeed  a  resurrected  immortal  and  glorified  being,  having 
a  body  of  flesh  and  bones,  and  spirit  like  His  Son  after  His  resur- 
rection, and  that  the  Son  ascended  to  heaven  with  His  resurrected 
body,  and  retains  it  in  the  heavens  and  will  come  with  that  same 
body  to  reign  and  rule  upon  the  earth  as  King  of  kings  and  Lord 
of  lords.  How  many  have  received  this  message  ?  It  is  but  telling 
the  old  story  over  again,  that  there  are  but  few  who  have  accepted 
it ;  the  same  with  other  gospel  principles.  The  gospel  has  been  re- 
stored, i;n  fulfilment  of  the  predictions  of  many  prophets.  The  Sa- 
vior, Himself,  said,  "This  gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall  be  preached 
in  all  the  world,  for  a  witness  unto  all  nations,  and  then  shall  the  end 
come."  Just  prior  to  the  coming  of  the  Lord,  then,  this  gospel  which 
Jesus  taught,  must  be  taught  again  to  the  world.  John,  the  Reve- 
lator,  declared  that  he  saw  in  the  then  future,  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel  by  an  angel.  It  has  been  so  restored.  Daniel,  in  the  inter- 
pretation that  the  Lord  gave  him  of  Nebuchadnezzar's  dream,  saw 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


59 


a  kingdom  which  God,  Himself,  would  set  up  in  the  last  days,  that 
should  never  be  thrown  down  or  given  to  another  people.  That 
kingdom  has  been  established,  and  we  have  been  trying  for  nearly  a 
century  to  convince  the  world  of  this  fact.  How  many  of  all  the  one 
hundred  ten  millions  of  people  in  these  United  States  have  accepted 
the  message?    A  mere  handful,  less  than  half  a  million. 

The  coming  of  our  Lord  is  nigh ;  the  wars  and  rumors  of  wars, 
famines,  pestilence,  apostasy  and  wickedness  bespeak  the  near  ap- 
proach of  His  coming,  and  we  have  been  giving  this  message  to  the 
people  for  about  ninety  years,  pleading  with  them  to  repent  and  pre- 
pare the  way  and  put  on  the  wedding  garments,  to  fill  their  lamps  that 
they  might  be  prepared  to  go  out  and  meet  the  bridegroom.  How 
many  have  received  the  message?  The  same  old  story — history  re- 
peats itself,  men  and  nations  have  to  learn,  it  seems,  by  their  own 
experience,  and  many  will  suffer  bitter  disappointment  and  condem- 
nation. 

May  the  Lord  bless  those  of  us,  who  have  embraced  the 
gospel,  and  enable  us  to  be  true  and  faithful  and  may  He  have  mercy 
upon  those  who  are  in  spiritual  darkness,  and  who  have  honest  hearts, 
and  lead  them  to  hear,  to  understand,  and  to  obey  its  truth ;  I  pray  in 
Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

I  was  praying  in  my  heart  that  whoever  should  speak  at  this 
time  it  would  not  be  Brother  McKay,  for  the  very  same  reason  which 
has  been  expressed,  and  I  am  glad  that  I  have  been  called  on,  be- 
cause it  will  soon  be  over. 

TOO    LITTLE   TIME   SPENT    IN    PROPER   DISCUSSION    OF   THE  PRINCIPLES 

OF  THE  GOSPEL 

I  feel  my  weakness  in  standing  before  you  at  this  time,  and  yet, 
I  have  been  very  happy,  because  throughout  this  conference  the  testi- 
mony has  been  one  of  preaching  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
there  is  nothing  that  appeals  to  me,  that  finds  response  in  my  soul, 
quite  so  much  as  the  preaching  of  the  simple  principles  of  the  everlast- 
ing gospel.  The  people  are  not  taught  these  principles  enough.  We 
do  not  spend  any  too  much  time  in  discussion,  that  is  of  the  proper 
kind,  I  mean,  of  these  principles  which  the  Lord  has  revealed  for  our 
salvation;  nor  do  we  know  any  too  much  concerning  them. 

JESUS  CHRIST  REDEEMER  OF  THE  WORLD 

Much  has  been  said  in  the  conference  in  relation  to  the  warning 
of  the  people,  and  in  admonishing  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  observe 
the  laws  and  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel,  which  have  been  given  us 
for  our  salvation.  We  believe  in  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ,  as  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world.    No  Latter-day  Saint  can  believe  anything 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


contrary  to  that.  It  is  true  that  those  who  profess  to  be  Christians, 
in  large  part  at  least,  do  not  accept  Him  as  the  Redeemer,  do  not 
look  upon  Him  as  the  Son  of  God,  are  not  willing  to  believe  that  He 
died  for  the  remission  of  sins,  for  the  transgression  of  our  first 
parents,  and  that  we,  through  repentance,  may  com©  back  into  the 
presence  of  the  Father;  yet  these  doctrines  are  fundamental  with  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  No  man  shall  see  the  kingdom  of  God  unless  he 
is  willing  to  accept  these  truths. 

THE  CELESTIAL  KINGDOM  OF  GOD 

I  would  like  to  say  a  word  or  two  in  relation  to  the  kingdom  of 
God.  In  the  great  sermon  that  was  preached  by  our  Redeemer,  on  the 
mount,  He  taught  the  people,  as  we  have  already  been  informed, 
that  they  should  "Seek  first  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  His  righteous- 
ness," and  moreover,  that  the  way  was  narrow  and  the  gate  was 
strait  which  led  to  life  eternal,  and  few  there  were  who  found  it. 
What  did  he  have  reference  to?  To  the  celestial  kingdom.  Presi- 
dent Penrose,  yesterday,  very  clearly  and  properly,  pointed  out  to  us, 
through  the  revelations  of  the  Lord,  that  it  was  the  purpose  of  our 
Father,  and  through  the  ministration  of  His  Son,  our  Redeemer,  to 
save  all  mankind,  but  that  must  be  done  through  man's  agency, 
through  his  faithfulness,  through  his  obedience  to  the  gospel,  and  it 
can  be  done  i,n  no  other  way.  All  men  are  to  be  saved,  with  the 
exception  of  the  sons  of  perdition,  who  reject  the  truth  after  having 
received  it,  and  who  crucify  Christ  again  unto  themselves  and  place 
themselves  in  such  a  condition  that  eternal  judgment  must  be  passed 
upon  them,  of  banishment  into  outer  darkness,  with  the  devil  and  his 
angels.  But,  in  the  salvation  of  the  human  family,  it  is  contemplated 
that  before  salvation  comes,  every  knee  must  bow,  and  every  tongue 
must  confess  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  through  the  shedding 
of  His  blood,  comes  redemption  from  death  and  from  individual  sin. 
Moreover,  the  Lord  has  never  promised  those  who  enter  into  the 
telestial  kingdom  that  they  shall  receive  the  blessings  of  exaltation. 
He  has  not  promised  to  those  who  enter  into  the  terrestrial  kingdom 
a  fulness ;  but  He  has  declared  that  he  who  endures  to  the  end,  he 
who  will  keep  all  the  commandments,  he  who  will  be  faithful,  shall 
find  a  place  in  His  kingdom;  and  when  He  speaks  of  His  kingdom, 
He  has  reference,  not  to  the  great,  broad  kingdom  which  will  em- 
brace all  humanity  save  the  few,  who  become  sons  of  perdition,  but 
speaks  of  that  place  where  He  and  His  Father  dwell. 

Let  me  repeat,  in  my  own  words,  however,  the  expression  that 
was  made  here  yesterday  by  President  Penrose.  Who,  among  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  is  seeking  a  place  in  the  telestial  kingdom?  Who, 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  is  seeking  a  place  in  the  terrestrial 
kingdom?"  With  those  kingdoms  we  should  want  nothing  to  do;  it  is 
not  the  intention  of  the  man  who  is  baptized  into  the  Church,  or 
ought  not  to  be,  to  so  live  that  he  will  not  find  a  place  in  the  celes- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  61 


tial  kingdom  of  God ;  for  baptism,  itself,  is  the  way  into  that  king- 
dom. Baptism  is  of  two-fold  nature ;  primarily  for  the  remission  of 
sins,  and  then,  entrance  into  the  kingdom  of  God,  not  the  telestial 
kingdom,  not  into  the  terrestrial  kingdom,  but  entrance  into  the  celes- 
tial kingdom,  where  God  dwells.  That  is  what  baptism  is  for ;  that  is 
what  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  is  for — ■ 
to  prepare  us  that  we  may,  through  obedience,  continue  on  and  on, 
keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  until  we  shall  receive  the 
fulness  in  the  celestial  kingdom. 

AS  TO  ADVANCEMENT  FROM  ONE  GLORY 
OR  KINGDOM  TO  ANOTHER 

There  has  been  a  great  deal  of  discussion  going  on  in  certain 
parts,  as  to  whether  or  not  those  of  the  telestial  kingdom  may  ad- 
vance into  the  terrestrial,  and  those  of  the  terrestrial  into  the  celes- 
tial, and  whether  eventually  all  men  enter  into  the  kingdom  where 
God  lives  and  Christ  reigns.  Why  should  we  worry  ourselves?  Why 
should  we  argue  ?  Why  should  we  contend  ?  Why  should  we  dis- 
cuss a  matter  of  that  kind?  When  we  have  come  out  of  the  world 
and  have  received  the  gospel  in  its  fulness,  we  are  candidates  for 
celestial  glory;  nay,  we  are  more  than  candidates,  if  we  are  faithful, 
for  the  Lord  has  given  unto  us  the  assurance  that  through  our  faith- 
fulness, we  shall  enter  into  the  celestial  kingdom,  and  surely,  no  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  desires  a  place  somewhere  else,  there  to  take  a  chance  of 
some  day  being  forgiven  and  having  the  opportunity  of  advancing 
and  finally  reaching  the  place  where  the  righteous  dwell. 

Then  again,  let  us  keep  in  mind  what  the  Lord  has  said;  it  is 
unnecessary  for  us  to  go  outside  of  that  which  the  Lord  has  stated 
in  the  revelations  unto  the  Church.  He  has  declared,  speaking  of 
those  who  enter  into  the  telestial  kingdom,  "that  where  God  and 
Christ  dwell,  they  cannot  come,  worlds  without  end."  Then,  why 
should  we  bother  about  it ;  why  should  we  argue  about  it ;  why  should 
we  consider  these  things  in  such  a  serious  mariner?  So  far  as  we 
are  concerned  let  us  live  so  that  we  will  be  assured  of  our  pflace, 
and  so  we  will  know,  through  the  lives  we  live,  that  we  shall  enter 
into  His  presence  and  dwell  with  Him,  receiving  the  fulness  of  the 
blessings  that  have  been  promised.  Who  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints  will  be  content  with  anything  short  of  the  fulness  of  salvation 
which  is  promised  us  ?  The  revelations  are  clear ;  the  Lord  has  re- 
vealed unto  us  just  what  course  we  should  take;  He  has  given  us 
commandments ;  they  are  plain ;  they  can  be  understood.  It  does 
not  require  an  interpreter ;  he  who  runs,  may  read  and  may  under- 
stand and  get  the  knowledge  which  is  essential  to  his  salvation.  And 
then  of  course  it  is  necessary  for  us,  in  our  humility,  and  in  the  spirit 
of  repentance,  to  press  on  and  on;  keeping  the  commandmelnts  unto 
the  end,  for  our  hope  and  our  goal  is  eternal  life,  and  that  is  life  in 
the  presence  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son ;  "And  this  is  life  eternal," 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


said  the  Lord,  "that  they  might  know  thee  the  only  true  God,  and 
Jesus  Christ  whom  thou  hast  sent."  That  we  may  know  this,  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "O  ye  mountains  high." 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Lewis  Anderson,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Manti  temple. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

The  meeting  began  at  2  o'clock  p.  m.,  President  Heber  J.  Grant, 
presiding. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "O  say  what  is  truth?" 
Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  James  W.  Funk. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Though  deepening  trials  throng 
your  way." 

ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

"But  if  from  thence  thou  shalt  seek  the  Lord  thy  God,  thou  shalt  find  Him, 
if  thou  seek  Him  with  all  thy  heart  and  with  a'l  thy  soul.  When  thou  art  in 
tribulation,  and  all  these  things  are  ccme  upon  thee,  even  in  the  latter  days, 
if  thou  turn  to  the  Lord  thy  God  and  shalt  be  obedient  unto  His  voice;  (For 
the  Lord  thy  God  is  a  merciful  God.  He  will  not  forsake  thee,  -neither  destroy 
thee,  nor  forget  the  covenant  of  thy  fathers,  which  he  sware  unto  them." 

At  twelve  o'clock  today  I  envied  the  peace  to  which  Brother 
Joseph  Fielding  was  entitled  and  which  I  am  sure  he,  enjoyed,  after 
his  closing  address  this  morning.  It  is  no  easy  task  to  anticipate 
facing  this  audience. 

A  VISIT  TO  DISTANT  MISSIONS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Eighteen  months  have  passed  since  I  had  the  privilege  of  trem- 
bling before  a  congregation  in  this  tabernacle.  Twelve  months  of  that 
time  have  been  spent  in  company  with  President  Hugh  J.  Cannon  in 
visiting  the  distant  missions  of  the  Church.  When  President  Grant 
suggested  Brother  Cannon  as  my  companion,  I  readily  acquiesced,  be- 
cause I  knew  his  worth.  Then  I  respected  him ;  today  I  love  him. 
I  think  that  conveys  to  you  the  fact  that  our  more  than  twelve  months' 
constant  companionship,  night  and  day,  was  most  genial  and  happy. 

NEARNESS  OF  GOD  TO  US,  AND  HIS  GUIDING  HAND 

I  should  like  very  much,  this  afternoon,  to  choose  some  part  of 
that  wonderful  trip  and  take  you  over  it,  but  all  throughout  this  con- 
ference I  have  been  prompted  to  try  to  give  the  message  that  seemed 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


63 


to  be  the  most  precious  to  me  of  all  our  experiences;  namely,  the 
many  manifestations  of  the  nearness  of  the  Lord  and  of  His  guiding 
hand. 

THE  MESSAGE 

The  message  is  found  in  the  passage  I  have  read:  "If  thou  turn 
to  the  Lord  Thy  God,  and  shalt  be  obedient  unto  His  voice,  He  will 
not  forsake  thee."  I  pray  that  I  may  be  able,  in  a  few  words,  to 
give  that  message  to  the  brethren  and  sisters  present  this  afternoon, 
in  the  hope  that  they  may  convey  it  to  the  hosts  of  young  men 
and  women  who  ought  to  receive,  even  indirectly,  the  inspiration  of 
this  memorable  conference. 

A   KEEN   SENSE  OF  THE  TRAVELER'S  RESPONSIBILITY 

When  we  left  home,  December  4,  1920,  we  looked  forward  with 
no  little  misgiving  and  anxiety  to  the  trip  ahead  of  us.  It  was  no 
simple  matter  to  contemplate  traveling  to  the  Orient,  thence  to  the 
Antipodes,  much  of  that  distance  to  be  spent  on  the  water.  The  dis- 
tance itself  made  us  realize  that  we  were  undertaking  a  great  re- 
sponsibility. Absence  from  our  loved  ones  was  keenly  felt  by  both, 
but  greater  than  these  two,  and  other  incidental  things  that  made 
us  hesitate  about  accepting  this  responsibility,  was  the  realization  that 
we  were  going  on  a  first  visitation  to  our  people  to  represent  the  gen- 
eral authorities.  The  keen  sense  of  our  responsibility,  adequately 
to  fulfil  the  desires  of  President  Grant  and  his  counselors  and  the 
Twelve,  who  had  honored  us  with  that  call,  made  us  seek  the  Lord 
as  I  had  never  sought  him  before  in  my  life,  and  I  wish  to  say  this 
afternoon  that  the  promise  made  by  Moses  to  the  children  of  Israel 
just  before  they  crossed  the  Jordan  River  into  the  Promised  land, 
has  been  fulfilled  in  our  experiences.  As  we  sought  the  Lord  with  all 
our  souls  He  came  to  our  guidance  and  assistance. 

TENDENCY  OF  THE  WORLD  TO  DENY  THE  EXISTENCE  OF  A  PERSONAL  GOD 

It  may  be  that  the  realization  of  our  dependence  upon  Him  made 
more  prominent  what  seems  to  me  to  be  a  deplorable  tendency  of  the 
world  to  disregard,  even  to  disown,  their  relationship  to  our  heavenly 
Father.  It  was  our  privilege  to  hear  educators  and  other  prominent 
men  speak  in  different  places  and  upon  different  occasions,  and  to 
mingle  with  different  classes  of  men  and  women  on  boats,  for  we 
spent  a  total  of  five  months  on  the  water,  sailing  in  about  twenty- 
three  different  vessels,  and  every  vessel  well  crowded  with  all  classes 
of  tourists,  most  of  whom  were  professed  Christians.  Frequently 
we  were  grieved  to  note  the  attitude  of  apology  that  these  Christian 
men  and  women,  assumed  toward  God,  their  Creator,  and  His  son 
Jesus  Christ.  I  have  been  in  mixed  gatherings  here  in  the  State,  and 
out  of  the  State,  in  which  some  men,  when  speaking  of  the  early 
pioneers  of  Utah  would  refer  in  a  rather  apologetic  way  to  Brigham 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Young,  and  on  some  occasions  I  have  felt  that  the  speakers  even 
hesitated  to  name  him  and  give  him  the  credit  due  him  in  the  settle- 
ment of  this  great  intermountain  commonwealth,  and  in  the  founding 
of  institutions  that  have  since  hecome  centers  of  influence  and  might. 
Just  such  an  attitude  I  have  seen  manifest  among  so-called  Christians 
when  they  would  begin  to  talk  about  God.  He  did  not  seem  to  be 
real  to  them.  He  did  not  seem  to  be  in  very  deed  their  Father  in 
Heaven.  There  is  a  tendency,  it  seems  to  me,  among  Christian  nations 
to  move  toward  a  conception  of  God  very  much  similar  to  the  con- 
ception of  the  Buddhist  who  says :  "There  is  no  personal  God-Creator 
on  whose  mercy  and  good  will  the  universe  is  dependent.  Every- 
thing owes  its  origin  and  development  to  its  own  inherent  vitalism, 
or,  what  comes  to  the  same,  to  its  own  will  to  live.  Human  ignor- 
ance it  is  which  alone  invented  a  personal  God-Creator."  The  Bud- 
dhist utterly  rejects  the  belief  in  a  personal  God.  So  do  many  in  the 
Christian  world.  In  opposition  to  this  false  conception  of  God,  I 
wish  to  declare  that  today  I  feel  as  I  have  never  felt  before  in  all 
my  life  that  God  is  my  Father.  He  is  not  just  an  intangible  power, 
a. moral  force  in  the  world,  but  a  personal  God  with  creative  powers, 
the  Governor  of  the  world,  the  Director  of  our  souls.  I  would  like 
to  have  the  young  men  of  Israel  feel  so  close  to  Him  that  they  will 
approach  Him  daily,  not  in  public  alone,  but  in  private. 

I  would  have  them  have  the  trust  in  Him  which  the  little  blind 
girl  had  in  her  father.  She  was  sitting  on  his  lap  in  the  train,  and 
a  friend  sitting  by  said :  "Let  me  rest  you,"  and  he  reached  over  and 
took  the  little  child  on  his  lap.  The  father  said  to  her:  "Do  you 
know  who  is  holding  you  ?"  "No,"  she  replied,  "but  you  do."  Oh, 
the  trust  of  that  child  in  her  father.  She  knew  she  was  safe  because 
he  knew  who  was  holding  her.  Just  so  real  should  be  the  trust 
which  the  Latter-day  Saint  boys  and  girls  have  in  their  Father  in 
heaven. 

FOUR  GREAT  BLESSINGS  COMING  FROM  FAITH  IN  GOD  AND  PRAYER 

Like  Benjamin  Franklin:  "The  longer  I  live  the  more  convincing 
proofs  I  see  that  God  governs  in  the  affairs  of  men ;  and  if  a  sparrow 
cannot  fall  to  the  ground  unnoticed,  is  it  possible  that  an  empire  can 
rise  without  His  aid?"  If  we  can  get  our  young  people  to  have  this 
faith  and  so  to  approach  their  God  in  secret,  there  are  at  least 
four  great  blessings  that  will  come  to  them  here  and  now.  The  first 
is  gratitude — gratitude  for  blessings  before  unrealized.  Their  souls 
will  be  filled  with  thanksgiving  for  what  God  has  done  for  them. 
They  will  find  themselves  rich  in  favors  bestowed.  The  young  man 
who  closes  the  door  behind  him,,  who  draws  the  curtains,  and  there 
in  silence  prepares  to  plead  with  God  for  help,  should  first  pour 
out  his  soul  in  gratitude  for  health,  for  friends,  for  loved  ones,  for 
the  gospel,  for  the  manifestations  of  God's  existence,  as  seen  in  the 
rocks  and  the  trees  and  .  the  stones  and  the  flowers,  and  all  things 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


65 


about  him.  He  should  first  count  his  many  blessings,  name  them  one 
by  one,  and  it  will  surprise  him  what  the  Lord  has  done. 

The  second  blessing  of  prayer  is  guidance.  I  cannot  conceive  of 
a  young  man's  going  astray  who  will  kneel  down  by  his  bedside  in  the 
morning  and  pray  to  God  to  help  him  keep  himself  unspotted  from 
the  sins  of  the  world.  I  think  that  a  young  girl  will  not  go  far 
wrong  who  will  kneel  down  in  the  morning  and  pray  that  she  might 
be  kept  pure  and  spotless  during  the  coming  day.  I  cannot  think 
that  a  Latter-day  Saint  will  hold  enmity  in  his  heart  if  he  will  sin- 
cerely, in  secret,  pray  God  to  remove  from  his  heart  all  feelings  of 
envy  and  malice  toward  any  of  his  fellowmen.  Guidance?  Yes,  God 
will  be  there  to  guide  and  direct  him  -who  "will  seek  Him  in  faith 
with  all  his  might  and  with  all  his  soul." 

The  third  blessing  is  confidence.  All  over  this  land  there  are 
thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  of  students  who  are  struggling  to 
get  an  education.  Let  us  teach  these  students  that  if  they  want  to 
succeed  in  their  lessons,  they  should  seek  their  God,  that  the  greatest 
teacher  known  to  the  world  stands  near  them  to  guide  them.  Once 
the  student  feels  that  he  can  approach  the  Lord  through  prayer,  the 
student  will  receive  confidence  that  he  can  get  his  lessons,  that  he 
can  write  his  speech,  that  he  can  stand  up  before  his  fellow  students 
and  deliver  his  message  without  fear  of  failure.  Confidence  comes 
through  sincere  prayer. 

Finally  he  will  get  inspiration.  It  is  not  imagination,  that  we 
can  approach  God  and  can  receive  light  and  guidance  from  Him, 
that  our  minds  will  be  enlightened,  our  souls  thrilled  by  His  Spirit. 
Washington  sought  it,  Abraham  Lincoln  received  it,  Joseph  Smith 
knew  it ;  and  the  testimony,  the  evidence  of  the  Prophet  Joseph's  in- 
spiration is  manifest  to  all  who  will  but  open  their  eyes  to  see  and 
their  hearts  to  understand. 

EXAMPLES  OF   INSPIRATION   ENJOYED  BY  THE  TRAVELERS 

Inspiration  was  given  to  us  on  this  trip.  That  is  why  I  touch 
this  theme. 

I  want  to  testify  to  you  that  God  was  with  us  when  we  stood 
beneath  that  tree  in  old  China  and  turned  the  key  for  the  preaching 
of  the  gospel  in  the  Chinese  realm.  My  words  may  not  convince  you 
of  the  fact,  but  no  disputant  can  convince  us  that  our  souls  were  not 
filled  to  overflowing  with  the  Spirit  of  God'  on  that  occasion. 

Again  the  veil  was  thin  between  us  and  departed  friends,  when 
we  stood  in  prayer  on  the  side  of  old  Haleakala,  the  largest  extinct 
volcano  in  the  world,  and  poured  out  thanksgiving  to  God  for  what 
He  had  done  for  Presidents  Joseph  F.  Smith,  George  Q.  Cannon, 
Elders  Francis  A.  Hammond,  James  Hawkins  and  their  wives,  and 
other  missionaries  who  carried  the  gospel  message  to  the  Hawaiian 
people. 

I  knew  of  His  protecting  care  in  the  Tongan  Islands;  for  when 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  vessel  was  submerged  by  a  mountainous  wave,  we  felt  that  peace 
and  security  which  the  little  girl  felt  when  she  said  to  her  father: 
"No,  but  you  know,  and  I  am  safe." 

At  Papeete,  Tahiti,  we  knew  His  guiding  hand  and  acknowledged 
His  overruling  providence,  when  replacing  our  judgment  by  His  in- 
spiration He  moved  us  to  do  something  which  our  own  judgment  had 
told  us  not  to  do,  subsequent  events  proving  that  the  inspiration  came 
in  rich  abundance  in  the  priesthood  meetings  with  your  boys.  God 
bless  them  wherever  they  are  today,  for  they  are  God's  servants,  as 
long  as  they  will  keep  themselves  pure  and  spotless  from  the  sins 
of  the  world,  and  I  testify  to  you  that  His  Spirit  is  guiding  them, 
magnifying  them  in  their  youth,  making  them  a  power  in  preaching 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Again,  when  among  the  Samoans,  we  felt  His  presence  on  sev- 
eral occasions,  especially  in  that  memorable  farewell  at  Sauniatu. 
May  I  take  this  occasion  to  say,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  are 
not  sufficiently  close  to  the  Tahitians,  the  Maoris,  the  Tongas,  the 
Samoans  and  the  Saints  in  Australia  and  New  Zealand.  In  distance 
they  are  a  long  way  off,  and  visitations  of  general  authorities  are  all 
too  infrequent.  They  need  things  which  they  do  not  get — some- 
times, I  think,  just  because  of  the  great  intervening  distance;  but 
their  hearts  are  just  as  true  and  genuine  and  their  faith  just  as  sin- 
cere as  yours  and  mine. 

Another  memorable  example  of  God's  guiding  hand  was  experi- 
enced when  we  met  Joseph  Wilford  Booth  at  the  very  time  and  place 
that  we  should  have  met  him  in  order  to  make  our  mission  to  the 
Armenians  successful.  He  did  not  know  where  we  were  and  we 
knew  not  where  he  was.  He  was  praying  that  the  hope  of  President 
Grant,  expressed  in  a  letter,  might  be  realized;  (for  the  President 
of  the  Church,  too,  was  praying  that  Brother  Booth  would  meet  us, 
and  that  we  three  would  go  to  Armenia  together)  ;  we  were  praying 
that  we  might  meet  him,  so  that  our  mission  there  would  not  be  a 
failure,  and  God  answered  our  prayers.  If  I  narrated  the  details, 
most  of  you,  too,  would  be  convinced  that  there  was  some  power  above 
chance  that  brought  about  that  meeting. 

RESTORATION   OF  THE  JEWS   IN  PALESTINE 

Now,  I  say  that  one  result  of  approaching  God,  our  Father,  is  in- 
spiration. Now  may  I  take  sufficient  time  to  give  one  little  circum- 
stance in  which  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph— 
nay  more  than  inspiration,  the  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  was 
fulfilled  in  part  at  least,  right  before  our  eyes.  The  same  chapter 
from  which  I  read  at  the  opening  of  my  remarks  says  also  that:  "If 
they  [Israel]  depart  from  the  ways  of  the  Lord,  and  go  to  worship- 
ing images  again,  I  call  heaven  and  earth  to  witness  against  you  this 
day,  that  you  shall  soon  utterly  perish  from  the  land  whereunto  ye 
go  over  Jordan  to  possess  it.    Ye  shall  not  prolong  your  days  upon 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


67 


it,  but  shall  utterly  be  destroyed."  "But,"  says  the  Prophet,  "in  the 
latter  days,  if  thou  turn  to  the  Lord  thy  God,  and  shalt  be  obedient 
unto  his  voice,  he  will  not  forget  the  covenant  of  thy  fathers,  which 
he  swore  unto  them."  You  remember  also  in  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
which  was  published  before  the  organization  of  the  Church,  that  there 
is  a  passage  referring  to  the  Jews  as  follows  :"Nevertheless,  when  the 
day  cometh  that  they  no  more  turn  aside  their  hearts  from  the  Holy 
One  of  Israel,  then  will  He  remember  the  promise  He  made  to  their 
fathers."  If  you  will  turn  to  the  tenth  chapter  of  Second  Nephi,  you 
will  see  what  that  promise  is.  "They  shall  be  restored  in  the  flesh, 
upon  the  earth,  unto  the  lands  of  their  inheritance."  And  another 
significant  remark,  that  "in  that  day  the  Gentiles  shall  be  great  in 
mine  eyes  in  carrying  them  forth  to  the  lands  of  their  inheritance." 
That  prophecy  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  is  very  significant  in 
the  light  of  current  events,  in  the  light  of  the  attitude  of  the  Jews 
today  toward  Christianity,  and  toward  Christ. 

A  SIGNIFICANT  EXPERIENCE  IN  JERUSALEM 

All  this,  however,  I  must  leave  by  mere  reference  and  carry  you 
now  to  Jerusalem  on  the  2nd  day  of  November,  1921.  On  the  pre- 
vious day,  Jerusalem  had  been  all  bustle  and  business.  David  Street 
was  lined  with  little  shops  in  which  Jews  and  Mohammedans  were 
carrying  on  their  trade.  Little  donkeys  heavily  laden  with  the  goods 
of  commerce  were  walking  up  the  rough  stone  steps  of  David  Street. 
We  saw  no  camels  on  that  street,  it  being  too  narrow.  Camels  were 
lying  down  depositing  their  burdens  at  Damascus  Gate.  On  Novem- 
ber 1,  1921,  Jerusalem  was  a  typically  busy  Oriental  city;  but  on 
the  2nd  all  things  were  changed.  David  Street,  so  far  as  business  was 
concerned,  was  quiet.  Shop  windows  were  closed,  so  were  the  shops 
outside  of  the  wall.  By  the  Allenby  Hotel  every  shop  window  was 
boarded.  No  autos  stood  as  usual  in  front  of  the  hotel  ready  to 
carry  tourists  down  to  the  Dead  Sea  and  to  Jericho.  Our  guide, 
Michael,  a  Greek  Christian,  seemed  to  radiate  a  foreboding  feeling. 
I  rather  jocularly  approached  him  and  wondered  what  was  the  matter 
with  him.  He  remained  silent,  his  attitude  portending  evil,  and  he 
intimated  to  us  to  be  quiet.  We  had  scarcely  reached  the  Jaffa  Gate 
where,  by  the  way,  is  seen  the  "eye  of  the  needle,"  when  he  broke  his 
silence. 

"Don't  you  see  that  all  business  houses  are  closed?"  said  he. 
"Yes,"  I  replied,  "what  does  it  signify?" 

"It  means,"  he  continued,  "that  today  the  Mohammedans  and 
the  Christians  are  uniting  in  protest  against  Mr.  Balfour's  declara- 
tion that  Palestine  shall  be  set  aside  as  a  Jewish  State." 

Well,  it  was  like  a  thunderclap  from  a  clear  sky.  I  had  not 
dreamed  that  there  would  be  opposition  to  that  movement.  We  had 
seen  the  Jews  present  in  the  city  carrying  on  their  trade  evidently 
in  peace,  without  molestation.    We  had  looked  up  a  few  statistics  and 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


knew  that  in  1914  it  was  estimated  that  80,000  people  were  in  Jeru- 
salem ;  50,000  of  whom  were  Jews,  most  of  whom  had  come  there 
but  recently  ;  for  fifty  years  before  that  there  were  only  20,000  peo- 
ple in  Jerusalem  all  told.  Now  to  hear  from  our  guide,  who  seemed 
to  know  what  he  was  talking"  about,  that  the  Mohammedans  and 
Christians  were  opposed  to  the  Jews'  coming  back,  was  an  astonish- 
ment to  me.  I  haven't  time  to  take  you  through  that  day,  but  I 
just  call  your  attention  to  this  fact,  that  at  eleven  o'clock  when  we 
came  back  to  the  street  leading  to  the  Jewish  quarter,  Brother  Can- 
non and  I  expressed  a  desire  to  confer  with  the  Jews  regarding  the 
opposition  so  strongly  manifest  that  day. 

"Don't  go  there,"  cried  Michael. 

"Why?"  we  asked. 

"Because  there  is  danger." 

"No,"  I  replied,  "I  think  there  is  no  danger." 

"If  you  go  there,  you  go  alone,"  said  our  guide. 

I  said :  "All  right,  Michael,  here  is  where  you  and  we  part  ' 
company.    We  will  meet  you  at  two  o'clock." 

So,  alone  we  went  into  the  Jewish  quarter,  to  hear  their  side  of 
it.  We  will  never  forget  that  scene.  Groups  of  Jews  from  foreign 
countries,  Russia,  Rumania,  and  Orthodox  Jews,  who  had  been  in 
Jerusalem  a  number  of  years  talked  together  in  subdued  tones.  From 
windows  and  balconies  women  peered  at  us,  evidently  suspicioning 
us  as  spies — children  looking  from  behind  shutters,  and  doorways. 
We  finally  found  a  young  Jew  who  could  speak  English ;  and  in 
answer  to  our  question  what  all  this  means,  he  said : 

"The  Mohammedans  and  the  Christians  are  uniting  in  protest 
against  Mr.  Balfour's  declaration  that  Palestine  shall  be  set  apart  as 
a  home  of  the  Jews." 

As  we  walked  back,  we  again  passed  through  a  group  of  Brit- 
ish soldiers  in  full  uniform,  including  steel  helmets,  muskets  in  hand, 
bayonets  fixed,  guarding  the  Jews.  We  knew  how  necessary  their 
presence  was;  for,  as  we  had  come  up  David  Street  we  had  seen 
several  Jews  and  two  Jewesses,  one  of  whom  clasped  a  baby  to  her 
breast,  stoned  by  Mohammedans  and  so-called  Christians,  their  only 
offense  being  that  they  were  Jews,  who  had  come  back  to  their 
promised  land. 

As  we  passed  these  British  soldiers,  I  said :  "Boys,  we  hope  you 
will  keep  them  (the  Moslems)  straight." 

"Oh,  I  think  we  can,"  answered  one  of  the  "Tommies" ;  and  as 
we  went  back  to  our  hotel  we  commented  upon  this  scene  and  the 
significant  passage  which  I  have  read :  "And  the  Gentiles  shall  be 
great  in  mine  eyes  in  restoring  them  to  their  land.  Yea,  the  kings 
of  the  Gentiles  shall  be  nursing  fathers  unto  them,  and  the  queens 
nursing  mothers."  On  the  tower  that  now  marks  the  spot  of  the 
tower  of  David,  British  officers  were  waving  signals  over  the  city, 
giving  orders  to  keep  the  peace;  armored  cars,  bearing  British  sol- 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


69 


diers  were  driven  through  the  streets  to  subdue  the  threatened  up- 
rising. Notwithstanding  these  precautions,  eight  men  lost  their 
lives  on  the  streets  of  Jerusalem  that  day. 

At  five  o'clock  the  order  was  given  by  Acting  Governor  General 
Samuels,  the  first  Jew  to  rule  in  Palestine  since  before  the  days  of 
the  Savior,  that  no  person  should  be  on  the  street  after  five  o'clock. 
We  ventured  out  after  that  hour  just  to  see  if  the  order  had  been 
obeyed.  It  was,  absolutely.  We  were  witnesses  that  day  of  the  be- 
ginning of  the  fulfilment  of  that  prophecy  which  refers  to  the  time, 
now  near  at  hand,  when  the  Jews  will  "no  more  turn  aside  their 
hearts  from  the  Holy  One,"  and  when  the  Gentiles  shall  be  the  means 
of  restoring  them  to  their  own  land. 

IF  WE  ONLY  KNEW  THE  READINESS  OF  CHRIST  TO  HELP 

Next  day  we  crossed  the  Brook  Kedron,  passed  the  Garden  of 
Gethsemane,  and  ascended  the  Mount  of  Olives,  to  the  spot  as  near 
as  we  could  determine,  where  Christ  stood  when  He  looked  at  Jeru- 
salem and  wept  over  her.  In  the  light  of  the  opposition  to  His  pur- 
poses to  which  we  were  witnesses,  I  thought  that  He  would  weep 
again  if  he  were  standing  there  today.  "If  thou  hadst  known,"  cried 
he,  "even  thou,  at  least  in  this  day,  the  things  which  belong  unto  thy 
peace !  but  now  they  are  hid  from  thine  eyes."  Neither  do  they  who 
are  now  opposing  his  purposes  know  the  things  which  belong  unto 
their  peace.  "If  they  only  knew!"  I  desire  to  say  to  the  children  of 
Israel  today,  in  these  valleys  of  the  mountains,  to  the  boys  and  girls 
especially:  If  you  only  knew  that  Christ  is  ever  ready  to  give  you 
help  in  time  of  need,  and  comfort  and  strength,  you  would  approach 
Him  in  purity,  simplicity,  and  faith.  I  indicated  in  the  beginning 
how  this  might  be  done.  May  I  illustrate  it  by  a  little  paragraph 
which  I  will  read  in  conclusion : 

The  builder  who  first  bridged  Niagara's  gorge, 
Before  he  swung  his  cable,  shore  to  shore, 
Sent  out,  across  the  gulf,  his  venturing  kite 
Bearing  a  slender  cord  for  unseen  hands 
To  grasp  upon  the  further  cliff,  and  draw 
A  greater  cord,  and  a  greater  yet. 
Ti  1  at  the  last  across  the  chasm  swung 
The  cable — then  a  mighty  bridge  in  air ! 
So  we  may  send  our  little  timid  thought 
Across  the  void,  out  to  God's  reaching  hands — 
Send  out  our  love  and  faith  to  thread  the  deep, 
Thought  after  thought,  until  the  little  cord 
Has  greatened  to  a  chain  no  chance  to  break, 
And — we  are  anchored  to  the  Infinite!' 

God  bless  our  youth  that  they  may  send  out  these  thoughts  in 
prayer  and  faith  and  receive  the  assurance  that  they  are  anchored  to 
the  Infinite,  in  God  our  Father  and  His  holy  Son,  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world.  This  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

They  call  us  "Mormons."  The  Church  to  which  we  belong  is 
known  as  the  "Mormon  Church."  The  gospel  which  is  committee} 
to  the  Church  is  called  "Mormonism."  These  names,  pseudonyms 
as  they  are,  have  been  fastened'  upon  us.  We  do  not  resent  the  titles, 
but  we  must  not  forget  that  they  are  false  names,  as  thus  applied. 
Nicknames  they  were;  and  where  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  is  known  in  the  world  to  one  by  its  proper  name,  it 
has  been  heard  of  by  hundreds  as  the  "Mormon  Church."  The  pos- 
sibility of  error,  misunderstanding,  false  conception,  through  this  ap- 
plication of  the  term  "Mormon"  should  not  be  forgotten.  The  Luth- 
eran Church  is  named  after  a  great  man,  and  those  who  chose  to  follow 
his  bannner  called  themselves  "Lutherans."  So  in  many  other  in- 
stances have  sects  and  denominations  been  named  after  men ;  but 
this  is  not  the  Church  of  Mormon,  nor  the  Church  of  Joseph  Smith, 
nor  of  Brigham  Young,  nor  of  any  other  man,  save  only  that  Man  who 
was  the  Son  of  the  Living  God,  He  who  was  and  is  Jesus  the  Christ. 

WHOSE  CHURCH  IS  IT? 

The  compound  name-title  given  to  the  Church  has  drawn  questions 
and  has  aroused  thought  in  the  minds  of  those  who  are  not  of  us : 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  You  will  remem- 
ber that  after  Christ  had  established  his  Church  among  the  aboriginal 
peoples  of  this  continent,  when  he  appeared  as  a  resurrected  Being 
amongst  them,  after  he  had  chosen  and  ordained  twelve  men  to  direct 
the  affairs  of  the  Church,  there  was  some  little  disputation  as  to  the 
name  the  Church  should  bear,  and  the  Twelve,  remembering  the  Lord's 
gracious  promise  that  when  they  would  call  upon  him,  united  in  heart 
and  purpose,  they  would  be  sure  of  a  hearing,  fasted  and  prayed,  and 
He  appeared  again  amongst  them  there  in  their  council  meeting  in 
bodily  presence  and  asked  them  what  they  would.  They  said,  "Lord, 
we  will  that  thou  wouldst  tell  us  the  name  whereby  we  shall  call  this 
Church."  His  answer,  as  we  may  render  it  in  modern  style  of  speech, 
was  to  this  effect :  Why  should  there  be  any  question  on  so  simple 
a  matter  as  that?  Whose  church  is  it?  Is  it  the  church  of  Moses? 
If  so,  call  it,  of  course,  by  the  name  of  Moses;  or  if  it  be  the  church 
of  any  other  man,  then  call  it  by  his  name,  but  if  it  be  my  Church,  as  ye 
say,  and  it  is,  then  call  it  by  my  name. 

THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST  OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

When  this  restored  church  was  organized  in  1830,  ninety-two 
years  ago  yesterday,  it  was  named  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ ;  but 
afterward,  by  special  revelation  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the 
Lord  himself  gave  the  extended  name  and  said :  "For  thus  shall  my 
Church  be  called  in  the  last  days,  even  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


71 


of  Latter-day  Saints."  Many  of  us  content  ourselves  with  the  as- 
sumption that  this  addition  was  made  to  avoid  confusion  with  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  as  it  had  existed  in  earlier  days,  the  primitive 
Church  as  we  call  it;  and  I  agree  with  that  as  being  a  good  purpose 
well  served.  Nevertheless,  to  me  there  is  a  deeper  meaning.  This 
is  in  one  sense,  and  that  an  all-comprehending  sense,  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ.  It  was  organized  by  his  commandment.  Its  doctrines 
are  his  doctrines.  The  salvation  it  preaches  is  the  salvation  which 
he  made  possible ;  but  as  an  organization  among  men,  as  a  body  of 
human  beings  it  is  likewise  the  Church  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  to 
this  body  constituting  the  organization  is  committed  certain  authority 
and  to  such  are  given  certain  privileges  coupled  with  commensurate 
responsibilities.  It  is  a  self-perpetuating  organization,  all  its  affairs 
being  carried  on  by  men  who  are  duly  called  under  the  inspiration  or 
by  direct  revelation  from  the  Lord  who  stands  at  its  head. 

PRONE  TO  USE  "MORMON"  TOO  FREELY 

The  Church,  therefore,  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints ;  and  while  I  say  we  do  not  resent  the  term  "Mormon,"  I  am 
inclined  to  think  that  we  Latter-day  Saints,  as  we  call  ourselves,  and 
rightly  too,  are  prone  to  use  the  term  "Mormon"  a  little  too  freely. 
I  have  been  impressed  by  comments  made  to  me,  orally  and  by  letter, 
by  men  of  thought,  theologians  and  scripture  students,  telling  of  the 
impression  made  upon  them  when  they  first  considered  the  name 
"The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints"  and  expressing 
surprise  that  we  use  the  term  "Mormon"  among  ourselves,  as  we  do, 
so  freely.  I  have  thought  of  this  matter  many  times,  extending 
through  many  years,  but  "Mormon"  is  a  common  name  with  us.  If  we 
will  only  remember  that  it  is  used  because  others  know  us  thereby  and 
because  it  is  shorter,  and  because  we  are  used  to  it,  there  may  be  no 
reason  for  strong  objection;  and  there  is  a  little  excuse,  perhaps,  if  not 
of  justicifation,  for  I  remember  that  the  Lord  has  made  plain  that  the 
holy  Priesthood,  which  we  are  told  is  after  the  order  of  the  Son  of  God, 
has  been  and  is  called  the  Melchizedek,  Priesthood  to  avoid  the  too  fre- 
quent repetition  of  the  sacred  Name,  and  I  would  rather  hear  the 
Church  spoken  of  as  the  "Mormon  Church"  if  we  understand  the  sense 
in  which  the  term  is  used,  than  to  hear  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  used 
loosely,  or  with  contempt,  and  perhaps  with  feelings  that  are  even 
more  sinful. 

ATTEMPTS  OF  SMALL  SECTS  TO  USE  NICKNAME 

By  the  way,  now  that  the  term  "Mormon,"  thus  fastened  upon 
us,  has  become  commonly  current,  I  note  that  because  of  the  esteem 
in  which  the  Church  is  held  by  many  who  know  us  as  we  are  and 
yet  are  not  of  us,  attempts  have  been  made  by  certain  small  sects  to 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


claim  it.  You  know  there  are  a  number  of  small,  aberrant,  and  ab- 
normal denominations  who  profess  to  believe  in  this  little  thing  that 
the  Prophet  Joseph  said  or  did,  or  to  accept  that  part  of  the 
revelations  which  God  gave  to  him  though  they  reject  many 
of  the  revelations  from  the  Lord  given  through  that  same  prophet, 
and  in  years  past  they  have  made  manifest  their  detestation,  of  the 
term  "Mormon."  Their  advertisements  in  the  papers  used  to  be 
coupled  with  an  explanatory  line  "Not  Mormon,"  and  now  I  think* 
1  am  not  saying  too  much  when  I  affirm  that  they  are  trying  to  purloin 
that  nickname  and  apply  it  to  themselves.  They  want  to  be  called 
"Mormons."  But  the  world  who  gave  us  the  nickname  have  given 
ns  letters  patent  assuring  our  right,  our  exclusive  right  to  it.  Whether 
we  want  to  use  it  or  not  is  another  matter. 

THE  REAL  MEANING  OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

But  I  pray  you  consider  wriat  the  real  name  means — "The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints."  We  can  understand,  easily, 
what  "Latter-day"  means — modern  day,  this  day  ;  but  what  does  the 
word  "Saint"  mean?  By  derivation,  by  acceptation,  and  by  the  best 
authority  in  the  language,  it  means  directly,  used  as  an  adjective, 
"holy,"  and  when  used  as  a  noun,  "a  holy  one ;"  and  we,  therefore, 
profess  to  be  a  body  of  holy  men,  holy  women.  We  proclaim  our- 
selves in  the  name  otf  Jesus  Christ  to  be  the  holy  ones  of  the  last 
days,  a  significant  proclamation,  blasphemous  in  the  extreme  if  it  be 
not  justified.  But  that  name  was  given  us  of  God.  We  do  not 
apologize  for  it,  nor  do  we  preach  the  doctrines  of  the  gospel,  com- 
mitted to  the  Church  to  ibe  preached,  in  any  apologetic  manner.  We 
preach  in  simplicity,  in  humility,  but  not  by  way  of  apology.  I  agree, 
from  my  own  observation,  with  the  attitude  assumed  by  many,  re- 
ferred to  and  described  so  tersely  by  Elder  McKay.  We  have  no 
apology  to  offer  for  our  name  nor  for  our  membership  in  the  Church, 
nor  for  our  scriptures  that  have  been  given  by  revelation  through  the 
prophets  of  the  Lord  unto  the  people. 

What  should  it  mean  to  you  and  me,  to  be  thus  called  a  holy; 
man,  a  holy  woman  ?  As  thus  applied,  the  t'erm  does  not  mean  that 
the  one  who  bears  it  is  necessarily  without  weakness  or  devoid  of 
blemish.  An  authorized;  usage  of  the  term  "holy"  is  that  it  shall  apply 
to  anyone  or  anything  that  is  authoritatively  appointed  and  set  apart 
for  exclusive  service  in  the  cause  of  God,  and  such  we  profess  to  be, 
set  apart  amongst  men  and  nations  as  the  people  of  God.  However, 
all  peoples  and  all  nations  may  be  one  with  us  and  m&y  thus  be  s'et 
apart,  if  they  only  will,  and  so  become  entitled'  to  bear  that  distinguish- 
ing name. 

GREAT  POWER  IN  CHURCH  REGARDLESS  OF  NUMBER 

There  is  power  in  a  name  given  of  God,  and  there  is  power  in 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  T ALU  AGE 


73 


this  Church.  You  know  it,  we  all  know  it,  though  our  numbers  be 
few.  One  of  our  speakers  referred  to  the  total  membership  of  the 
Church  as  constituting  a  handful  as  compared  with  the  people  of  the 
world,  the  human  population  at  this  time.  The  expression  was  apt; 
but  I  pray  you  let  us  not  forget  that  the  Lord  does  not  reckon  strength 
in  terms  of  the  numbers  of  men.  You  know  a  certain  king  of  old, 
the  king  of  Israel,  was  rebuked  because  he  wanted  to  number  Israel 
and  find  out  over  how  many  people  he  ruled.  Why  should  he  not 
have  known  that  though  they  were  one  one-thousandth  part  as  many 
as  he  hoped,  with  the  Lord  on  their  side  they  could  vanquish  the 
world,  if  so  directed.  The  success  of  this  Church,  as  an  organization 
among  men,  does  not  depend  wholly  upon  numbers. 

ILLUSTRATIONS 

Let  me  illustrate,  showing  that  other  people  recognize  the  fact. 
Some  time  ago  it  was  my  privilege  to  be  in  consultation  with  a  man 
of  letters,  who  was  a  directing  editor  of  two  large  newspapers  in 
Boston.  He  inquired  into  some  phases  of  our  Church  history,  asked 
me  many  questions  in  an  investigative  manner,  and  be  put  this  in- 
quiry to  me :  "What  is  the  membership  of  your  Church  ?"  This  was 
long  ago,  a  few  years  ago,  before  the  last  census  was  taken.  I  said : 
"Approximately  five  hundred  thousand."  "Oh,"  he  said,  "I  don't  mean 
here  in  New  England,  or  in  this  section  only.  I  want  the  total  mem- 
bership." "I  have  told  you,  sir."  He  leaned  back  in  his  chair;  then 
he  said,  "Do  you  tell  me,  in  all  earnestness,  that  the  great  "Mormon" 
Church  numbers  only  approximately  half  a  million?"  "I  do."  Again 
he  leaned  back  and,  after  a  moment's  thought,  rose  as  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  gave  him  utterance,  and  bore  testimony  to  the  power  of  God 
in  these  simple  words :    "Surely,  the  hand  of  God  is  in  it." 

We  are  not  a  big  Church,  but  we  are  a  great  one — the  greatest 
on  the  face  of  the  earth.  I  say  it  without  apology,  without  qualifi- 
cation. Between  bigness  and  greatness  there  is  a  fundamental  differ- 
ence. 

Again,  in  the  city  of  Baltimore  I  was  once  talking  with  the 
editor  of  one  of  the  leading  papers.  I  had  been  announced  to  speak 
in  the  city.  He  explained  to  me — this  was  during  the  war  season — 
that  space  was  precious  in  their  papers,  that  the  force  of  reporters 
had  been  cut  down,  and  perhaps  they  could  not  cover  the  meeting 
as  they  would  otherwise  have  been  pleased  to  do.  In  a  casual  way  he 
said :  "Flow  many  have  you  in  your  congregation  here  in  Baltimore  ?" 
I  was  able  to  answer  him  promptly  and  accurately,  for  shortly  before 
my  interview  with  him  I  had  been  in  consultation  with  the  conference 
president.  I  gave  the  number — as  I  remember  it,  it  was  twenty-nine. 
"Twenty-nine,"  I  replied.  He  started  in  his  chair — "Twenty-nine 
what?"  "Twenty-nine  souls,"  said  I,  "most  of  them  children."  He 
said :    "Are  you  in  earnest  ?    Are  they  all  you  have  ?"    I  said,  "Yes ; 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  if  you  wish  I  can  give  you  the  names  and  the  addresses.  We)  have 
the  complete  roll  and  record  of  our  members  here."  His  answer  was : 
"We  will  send  a,  reporter.    You  shall  have  all  the  space  you  want." 

NOT  DISAPPOINTED  IN  SMALL  NUMBERS 

Do  you  see,  that  such  men  recognize  the  fact  that  there  is  some- 
thing more  in  the  Church  than  mere  numbers?  I  call  to  mind  the 
prediction  of  the  ancient  Nephite  prophet — no,  the  prediction  of  the 
living  God,  given  through  his  prophet,  that  in  these  days,  in  the  very 
dispensation  in  which  this  book,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  should  come 
forth  out  of  the  earth,  the  Church  of  the  Lamb  should  be  found 
in  many  lands,  all  over  the  earth,  but  that  their  numbers  would  be 
few ;  so  we  are  not  disappointed.  We  expect  to  be  few ;  for,  of  the 
whole  human  family  there  are  few  who  are  willing  to  recognize  the 
truth,  very  few.  I  read  with  deep  emotion  that  declaration  recorded 
in  the  seventy-sixth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  that  the 
inhabitants  of  the  Telestial  world,  kingdom  or  glory,  whichever  you 
like,  the  lowest  of  the  kingdoms  of  glory,  were  seen  to  be  as  in- 
numerable as  the  stars  in  heaven  or  the  grains  of  sand  upon  the  sea- 
shore. We  are  started  on  the  high  journey  along  that  straight  and 
narrow  path  that  has  been  referred  to,  leading  to  the  Celestial  king- 
dom of  the  Lord  our  God.  Let  us  sanctify  ourselves,  as  becomes  holy 
ones,  that  there  be  no  blemish  upon  our  sacred  name  and  title.  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Him  who  gave  the  Church  its  designation,  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Claire  Goslind  sang  a  sacred  solo  entitled,  "Abide  with  me." 
ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

A  REVOLTING  CRIME 

Two  months  ago  a  prominent  business  man  of  this  city  sat  in 
his  home,  eating  his  evening  meal,  with  his  family  surrounding  him. 
Without  warning,  there  entered  his  home  two  masked  men.  Upon 
their  entrance  they  commanded  him  to  raise  his  hands,  and  there- 
after, immediately,  this  man  was  shot  to  death.  The  crime  cast  a 
pall  of  horror  and  of  gloom  over  this  entire  community. 

CRITICISM  OF  THE  POLICE  OFFICERS  AND  THE  LAW 

Following  the  first  effects  there  came  a  reaction  in  the  form  of 
indignation  and  rather  severe  criticism  of  the  municipal  and  police 
authorities  for  the  crime  which  had  been  committed.  A  delegation 
of  business  men,  representative  of  clubs  and  associations  to  which 
the  deceased  belonged,  waited  upon  the  police  and  civic  departments 
of  the  city,  voicing  something  in  the  nature  of  criticism  for  what  was 
alleged  to  be  inefficiency  on  the  part  of  that  department  and  its 
inability  to   forestall   such   terrible   disasters   as    that    which  bad 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


75 


happened.  Among  the  criticisms  that  were  urged  at  the  time  was 
this  one :  It  was  said  the  police  department  had  given  over  so  much 
of  its  time  and  endeavor  to  the  attempted  enforcement  of  laws  which 
were  in  their  nature  quasi-moral  regulations  that  it  was  unable  to 
throw  the  whole  force  of  its  power  into  .  measures  and  safe- 
guards tending  to  mitigate  and  to  forestall  the  commission  of  crime. 
Not  very  complimentary  things  were  said  at  the  time  regarding  the 
class  of  legislation  which  the  police  department  had,  in  some  measure, 
attempted  to  enforce.  Among  these  laws  which  were  held  up  to  ridi- 
cule by  the  men  who  felt  so  aggrieved,  was  the  law  passed  by  the  last 
legislature  of  this  state  against  the  sale  and  disposition  of  cigarettes, 
and  the  smoking  of  tobacco  under  certain  proscribed  conditions, 
Other  laws  came  in  for  a  share  of  condemnation,  and  it  was  said 
that  altogether  too  much  of  the  efforts  put  forth  by  the  police  de- 
partment had  gone  to  the  enforcement  of  laws  against  gambling, 
against  (he  keeping  open  of  places  of  ill  repute,  and  other  measures 
tending  to  regulate  society  in  this  community. 

OTHER  CAUSES  THAN  THE  POLICE  AT  FAULT 

Shortly  after  these  criticisms  were  urged  against  the  police  de- 
partment of  this  city  certain  developments  came  to  light  in  the  hor- 
rible crime  which  had  been  committeed.  It  was  at  first  supposed  that 
the  crime  had  been  perpetrated  by  masked  bandits,  probably 
strangers  to  the  city,  in  the  hope  of  procuring  goods  and  wealth  from 
the  home  of  him  who  had  been  shot.  It  later  developed  that  the 
whole  tragedy  had  its  inception  in  the  plan  of  a  young  girl  who 
had  been  retained  in  the  household  as  a  servant;  and  according  to 
the  confession  which  she  made,  as  it  was  set  forth  in  the  press,  it 
seems  that  her  ideas  were  formulated  largely  from  the  education — I 
use  the  word  advisedly — which  she  had  received  in  the  moving  pic- 
ture halls  of  this  city.  You  are  all  more  or  less  acquainted  with  the 
details  of  her  confession.  You  know  what  importance  she  attached 
to  the  fact  that  she  had  conjured  up  in  her  own  mind  a  tragedy  in 
which  she  should  play  a  very  important  part  and  possibly  secure  some 
coveted  notoriety.  Further  investigation  and  development  also 
brought  to  light  the  fact  that  one  of  the  principals  in  the  murder 
was  the  son  of  a  widow  whose  husband  was  murdered  several 
years  ago ;  that  he  came  from  a  broken  home,  and  that  by  reason  of 
the  inability  of  a  poor  mother  to  properly  provide  that  training  and 
those  safeguards  which  should  be  around  the  life  of  every  young 
man,  he  had  been  subjected  to  improper  influences,  had  given  him- 
self over  to  association  with  bad  characters  and  thus  came  to  this 
lamentable  end.  The  antecedents  of  the  other  principal  do  not  seem 
to  be  so  well  known.  I  think,  however,  it  would  be  a  safe  estimate 
that  he  likewise  had  come  from  a  home  which  had  not  exerted  around 
him  that  influence  which  is  designed  to  safeguard  him  from  the  temp- 
tations of  the  world.    The  point  that  I  desire  to  bring  to  your  atten- 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


tion  in  again  reminding  you  of  the  circumstances  attendant  upon  this 
tragedy  is  this,  that  the  very  thing  against  which  the  legislation  which 
is  so  bitterly  complained  of  was  directed,  an|d  the  very  things 
against  which  it  and  similar  legislation  were  provided  as  safeguards, 
are  the  things  which  gave  rise  to  this  unspeakable  tragedy. 

THE  REAL  CAUSE 

The  lack  of  moral  culture,  the  failure  to  supply  the  innocent  or 
unfortunate  with  the  safeguards  that  should  be  about  them  in  youth 
had  given  rise  and  stimulation  to  ideas  and  false  notions  which  resulted 
in  that  terrible  crime.  The  men  who  voiced  their  disapproval,  not 
only  of  the  laws  passed  by  the  legislature  but  of  the  enforcement  of 
those  laws  by  the  civic  authorities  of  this  city  surely  must  have  felt 
that  they  were  mistaken  when  they  urged  that  criticism  against  our 
municipal  authorities. 

AN  APPEAL  TO  SUSTAIN  THE  LAW  AND  ITS  OFFICERS 

I  want  to  appeal  for  co-operation  and  support  for  the  municipal 
authorities  of  our  cities  and  towns  in  the  enforcement  of  that  legis- 
lation which  is  somewhat  paternal,  which  has  for  its  object  the  safe- 
guarding of  society  even  though  it  may  not  be  entirely  in  consonance 
with  the  belief  of  many  men  and  women  as  to  the  proper  and  legiti- 
mate function  of  the  government.  Every  good  citizen  knows  that  when 
the  legislature  passes  a  law,  that  action  ends  discussion  as  to  whether 
or  not  the  principle  is  a  right  or  proper  one  for  legislation,  at  least 
until  such  time  as  an  issue  shall  be  formulated  upon  the  question 
again.  The  legislature  of  this  State  and  the  legislatures  of  some 
other  states  have  passed  laws  tending  to  safeguard  the  moral,  the 
physical,  the  spiritual  well-being  of  the  citizens  of  this  and  other 
slates.  It  ill  becomes  any  citizen,  surely  it  is  ill  becoming  in  any 
member  of  the  Church,  to  interpose  any  degree  of  criticism,  at  this 
stage  either  upon  the  wisdom  of  the  legislation  or  the  propriety  of  en- 
forcing the  law. 

It  is  not  an  easy  thing  to  enforce  law.  My  sympathy  goes  out 
to  the  men  who  have  been  elected  to  positions  of  responsibility  and 
who  are  called  upon  to  bring  to  justice  those  who  violate  the  laws 
and  the  ordinances  of  the  land.  I  believe  that  never,  at  any  time  in 
our  history,  has  there  been  greater  need  for  whole-souled  support 
of  the  administrators  of  law  than  at  the .  present  time.  It,  is  re- 
gretable  in  the  utmost  degree  that  there  are  citizens  of  this  country, 
as  pointed  out  by  President  Ivins  in  his  remarkable  address  of  yes- 
terday, who  are  inclined  to  look  with  very  great  allowance  upon  the 
infraction  of  those  ordinances  and  laws  which  are  passed  tending  to 
bring  about  better  conditions  in  our  state,  and  surely  it  must  follow 
that  if  we  neglect  the  enforcement  of  these  laws  there  will  come  a 
degree  of  crime  and  infraction  of  law  that  will  be  horrible  to  all  the 
people  and  to  all  the  world.    I  believe  that  the  time,  has  come  when 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


77 
t 


we  must  stand  by  the  laws  of  the  State,  when  we  must  support  these 
regulations,  and  we  must  lend  such  co-operation  to  our  municipal 
authorities  that  they  will  feel  and  know  that  the  best  people  of  the 
country  stand  squarely  behind  them.  Not  only  is  it  our  duty  as  a 
Church  to  lend  influence  and  support  in  this  measure  and  in  these 
particulars,  but  it  is  likewise  our  duty  to  so  use  these  great  organiza- 
tions which  the  Lord  has  given  to  us  that  they  may  educate  boys  and 
girls  in  respect  for  law  and  for  order.  I  believe  thoroughly  that 
the  firmest  props  to  our  government  lie  in  religion  and  morality. 

OUR  NEED  OF  FAITH,  SERVICE  AND  SELF-CONTROL 

A  memorable  address  was  made  at  the  university,  upon  the  in- 
auguration of  its  new  president,  by  Doctor  Carver,  who  addressed  this 
conference,  upon  the  pertinent  question :  "How  much  civilization  can 
we  stand?"  He  answered  his  question  by  saying  in  substance:  "We 
can  stand  only  so  much  civilization  as  we  may  show  service  and 
self-control."  Religion,  true  religion,  faith  in  God  the  Father,  adher- 
ence to  His  commandments  and  to  the  principles  of  truth,  are  in- 
dispensable to  the  development  of  self-control  and  to  the  development 
of  that  great  altruistic  spirit  which  shall  render  service  to  humanity 
and  to  God.  Therefore,  I  appeal  to  my  brethren  and  sisters  who 
officer  and  direct  these  great  organizations  of  the  Church,  to  so  use 
them  that  they  may  stimulate  and  establish  faith  in  the  hearts  of 
boys  and  girls  and  men  and  women.  The  Church  is  not  an  end  in 
and  of  itself.  The  Church  is  but  a  great  implement  to  be  used  by 
these  holy  ones,  of  whom  Brother  Talmage  has  spoken,  for  the  en- 
lightenment of  the  world,  for  the  reclamation  of  the  souls  of'  men  and 
for  the  establishment  in  the  hearts  of  men  of  the  great  virtues  which 
go  to  make  character  and  manhood  and  womanhood.  God  grant  that  the 
people  of  the  Church  may  support  and  sustain  the  law,  the  adminis- 
trators of  the  law,  and  the  foundation  of  the  law,  which  lies  in  the 
great  principles  of  truth,  virtue,  equity  and  justice,  I  humbly  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

As  a  result  of  the  promise  and  resolution  I  made  in  our  General 
Conference  six  months  ago,  I  am  standing  before  you  this  afternoon 
in  what  is  probably  the  largest  pair  of  shoes  ever  made  at  Z.  C.  M.  I. 
And  who  can  say  that  the  making  of  this  suit  of  mine,  of  Provo-made 
cloth,  has  not  so  increased  the  demand  for  wool  that  its  price  has  ad- 
vanced from  something  like  fourteen  cents,  six  months  ago,  to  some- 
thing like  thirty-five  cents  now. 

OUR  MISSIONARIES  HAVE  A  NOTABLE  MESSAGE 

President  Grant  read  a  statement  yesterday  from  Prest.  Nicholas 
Murray  Butler  of  Columbia  University  that  it  is  significant  that  in  this 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


period  of  vigorous  and  able-bodied  reaction  the  world  should  be  "without 
a  poet,  without  a  philosopher,  and  without  a  notable  religious  leader. 
The  great  voices  of  the  spirit  are  all  stilled  just  now,  while  the  mad 
passion  for  gain  and  for  power  endeavors  to  gratify  itself  through  the 
odd  service  of  destroying  what  has  already  been  gained  or  accom- 
plished." 

While  our  missionaries  as  individuals  may  not  be  regarded  as 
"notable  religious  leaders,"  by  the  great  mass  of  people  in  the  world, 
they  do  speak  with  authority  and  they  do  have  a  message  for  the  world 
that  to  them  is  of  such  importance  that  they  are  willing,  at  their  own 
expense,  to  give  their  time  and  devote  themselves  thus  unselfishly  to 
carrying  the  gospel  message  "to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and 
people." 

Sooner  or  later  the  world  will  learn  that  in  these  days  the  heavens 
have  been  opened,  God  the  Father  has  spoken,  the  Son  has  appeared, 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  restored,  and  it  is  being  preached  "as 
a  witness"  and  that  when  this  message  has  been  carried  to  "every 
nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people"  our  Lord  and  Master  will  come 
rgain  in  accordance  with  prophecies  clearly  made  in  Holv  Writ. 

THE  GREATEST  NEED  OF  THE  WORLD  TODAY 

The  greatest  need  of  the  world  today  is  the  return  to  simple 
Christian  religious  ideals.  One  of  the  world's  greatest  financial  sta- 
tisticians (  Roger  W.  Babson, Fundamentals  of  Prosperity,  p.  55)  has 
stated  the  situation  clearly  in. the  following  words: 

"Much  of  the  prosperity  of  this  nation  is  due  to  the  family  prayers  which 
were  o'nce  he'd  daily  in  the  homes  of  our  fathers.  Tg  a  very  large  extent  this 
custom  has  gone  by.  Whatever  the  arguments  pro  and  con  may  be,  the  fact 
neverthelesss  remains  that  such  family  prayers  nurtured  and  developed  these 
spiritual  resources  to  which  the  prosperity  of  the  nation  is  due.  The  custom 
of  family  prayers  should  be  revived  along  with  many  other  good  New  England 
customs  which  some  modern  radicals  may  ridicule,  but  to  which  they  owe  all 
that  they  possess." 

HOW  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  MAY  PERFORM  THEIR  TASK 

The  work  that  has  been  given  us  to  do,  that  of  preaching  the  gospel 
to  all  the  world,  is  a  tremendous  undertaking.  This  work  can  be  ac- 
complished only  if  we,  the  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  live  in  fairly  strict  conformity  with  the  teachings 
of  the  gospel  of  our  Master.  Of  these  teachings  there  is  none  more 
thoroughly  fundamental  and  important,  perhaps,  than  that  of  family 
prayer.  Are  the  fathers  and  mothers  of  the  Church  devoting  them- 
selves faithfully  to  this  important  duty,  and  are  they  teaching  their 
sons  and  daughters  to  place  their  trust  in  Divine  Providence? 

If  it  were  possible  for  me  to  do  so,  I  should  be  glad,  this  after- 
noon, to  teach  you  some  sure  method  of  making  money,  to  teach  you 
how  to  save  money,  to  teach  you  some  method  of  going  forward  with 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


79 


certainty  to  secure  honor,  to  secure  distinction,  to  accomplish  some 
unusual  or  tremendous  success.  But  giving  such  instruction  would 
not  be  of  greatest  importance,  for  the  accomplishments  I  have  named 
are  not  in  and  of  themselves  the  greatest  of  the  fundamentals. 

That  Scripture  quoted  yesterday  by  President  Charles  W.  Penrose 
and  this  morning  by  Brother  George  Albert  Smith,  is  founded  upon 
the  essential  fundamentals.  We  must,  if  we  are  to  achieve  the  greatest 
success,  "seek  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  His  righteousness,"  then 
all  these  things  will  be  added  unto  us. 

PRAYER  ONE  OF  THE  FUNDAMENTALS  OF  SUCCESS 

The  forefathers,  the  founders  of  our  country,  sought  first  the 
kingdom  of  God.  This  great  nation  of  ours  is  builded  upon  a  religious 
spirit.  Our  forefathers  were  religious  men.  Washington,  Franklin, 
Lincoln — these  great  Americans  were  all  prayerful.  The  great  leaders 
of  our  country  all  the  way  along  the  line  have  been  men  who  were 
firm  believers  in,  and  who  placed  their  confidence  in,  Almighty  God. 

The  wise  men  of  the  world  seem  these  days  to  be  pretty  well 
agreed  that  in  all  time  the  peoples  of  the  world  have  been  in  no 
more  serious  situation  than  they  are  today. 

Lincoln's  proclamation  for  a  day  of  prayer 

For  Lincoln's  time  the  situation  faced  was  a  serious  one.  What 
he  did  then  ought  the  world  not  to  do  now  ?  In  what  was  probably  the 
darkest  hour  of  the  Civil  War,  he  set  apart  March  the  30th,  1863,  as 
a  day  of  fasting  and  prayer  by  issuing  a  proclamation  which  read  in 
part  as  follows : 

"Whereas,  the  Senate  of  the  United  States,  devoutedly  recognizing  the 
supreme  authority  and  just  government  of  Almighty  God  in  all  the  affairs  of 
men  and  nations;  has  by  a  resolution  requested' the  President  to  designate 
and  set  apart  a  day  for  national  prayer  and  humiliation ;  and 

"Whereas,  it  \s  the  duty  of  nations  as  well  as  of  men  to  own  their 
dependence  upon  the  overruling  power  of  God,  to  confess  their  sins  and  trans- 
gressions in  humbled  sorrow,  yet  with  assured  hope  that  genuine  repentance 
will  lead  to  mercy  and  pardon,  and  to  recognize  the  sublime  truth,  announced 
in  the  Holy  Scriptures  and  proven  by  all  history,  that  those  nations  only  are 
blessed  whose  God  is  the  Lord : 

"And,  insomuch  as  we  know  that  by  His  divine  law,  nations,  like  individ- 
uals, are  subjected  to  punishments  and  chastisement  in  this  world,  may  we  not 
justly  fear  that  the  awful  calamity  of  civil  war  which  now  desolates  the  land 
may  be  but  a  punishment  inflicted  upon  us  for  our  presumptuous  sins,  to  the 
needful  end  of  our  national  reformation  as  a  whole  people?  We  have  been 
recipients  of  the  choicest  bounties  of  Heaven ;  we  have  been  preserved  these 
many  years  in  peace  and  prosperity;  we  have  grown  in  numbers,  wealth,  and 
power  as  no  other  nation  has  ever  grown  But  we  have  forgotten  God.  We 
have  forgotten  the  gracious  hand  which  preserved  us  in  peace  and  multiplied 
and  enriched  and  strengthened  us,  and  we  have  vainly  imagined,  in  the  deceit- 
fulness  of  our  hearts,  that  all  these  blessings  were  produced  by  some  superior 
wisdom  and  virtue  of  our  own.    Intoxicated  with  unbroken  success,  we  have 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


become  too  self-sufficient  to  feel  the  necessity  of  redeeming  and  preserving 
grace,  too  proud  to  pray  to  the  God  that  made  us. 

"It  behooves  us,  then,  to  humble  ourselves  before  the  offended  power,  to 
confess  our  national  sins  and  to  pray  for  clemdicy  and  forgiveness  

-"This  fasting  and  praying  being  done  in  sincerity  and  truth,  let  us  then 
rest  humbly  in  the  hope  authorized  by  the  divine  teachings  that  the  united  cry 
of  the  nation  will  be  heard  on  high  aind  answered  with  blessing  no  less  than 
the  pardon  of  our  national  sins  and  the  restoration  of  our  now  divided  and 
suffering  country  to  its  former  happy  condition  of  unity  and  peace." 

TEACH  THE  YOUNG  PEOPLE  TO  PRAY 

To  the  last  degree  I  am  interested  in  the  welfare  of  this  people. 
The  ambition  of  my  life  is  to  use  my  physical  strength  and  mental 
power  for  the  good  of  the  young  people  in  the  Church.  I  want  them 
to  succeed.  May  heaven  help  us  to  induce  them  to  live  in  accordance 
with  the  principles  of  the  gospel.  I  desire1  them  to  have  eyes  that  are 
brighter,  intellects  that  are  clearer,  minds  that  are  more  active  than 
are  the  minds  and  intellects  and  the  vision  of  other  people.  These 
blessings  must  be  ours  if  we,  the  people  of  the  Church,  though  few  in 
numbers,  are  to  accomplish  so  much. 

If  there  is  before  me  now  any  father  or  any  mother  who  has  not 
taught  his  or  her  son,  his  or  her  daughter,  to  lead  in  family  prayer 
I  beg  of  you,  accept  my  sympathy.    Teach  them  to  pray. 

Only  last  Tuesday  a  mission  president  reported  that  when  he 
called  upon  a  young  man  to  lead  in  family  prayer,  who  had  come  into 
the  mission  field,  the  young  man  hesitated,  stumbled,  uttered  but  a  few 
words,  finally  finished  in  considerable  embarrassment  and  then  said : 
"That  is  the  first  time  in  my  life  I  have  spoken  a  word  of  prayer." 

SEEK  FIRST  THE  KINGDOM  OF  GOD 

Let  us,  I  beg  of  you,  remember  the  Lord,  "Seek  ye  first  the  king- 
dom," and  all  these  things  shall  be  added  unto  us. 

Our  obligation  to  train  our  children  as  they  ought  to  be  trained 
is  an  important  one.  While  "We  believe  the  Bible  to  De  the  word  oi 
God,"  we  believe  that  what  is  written  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
and  what  is  recorded  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  applies  with  a  greater 
degree  of  accuracy  to  us  in  these  days  and  in  this  age  than  does  that 
which  is  recorded  in  the  Bible.  I  shall  read  to  you  now  Scripture  from 
the  sixty-eighth  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  beginning  with 
the  twenty-fifth  verse.   This  scripture  is  intended  for  us  here  and  now : 

"And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents  have  children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized,  that  teach  them  not  to  understand  the  doctrine  of 
repentance,  faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  and  of  baptism  ;<nd  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  hands  when  eight  years  old,  the  sin 
be  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents ; 

"For  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  the  inhabitants  of  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized : 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


81 


"And  their  children  shall  be  baptized  for  the  remission  of  their  sins  when 
eight  years  old,  and  receive  the  laying  on  of  the  hands. 

"And  they  shall  also  teach  their  children  to  pray  and  to  walk  uprightly 
before  the  Lord. 

"And  the  inhabitants  of  Zion  shall  also  observe  the  Sabbath  day — "And 
the  inhabitants  of  Zion  shall,  also,  remember  their  labors,  inasmuch  as  they  are 
appointed  to  la,bor  in  all  faithfulness,  for  the  idler  shall  be  had  in  rememberance 
before  the  Lord. 

"Now,  I  the  Lord,  am  not  well  pleased  with  the  inhabitants  of  Zion,  for 
there  are  idlers  among  them;  and  their  children  are  also  growing  up  in  wicked- 
nss ;  they  also  seek  not  earnestly  the  riches  of  eternity,  but  their  eyes  are  full 
of  greediness. 

"These  things  ought  not  to  be,  and  must  be  done  away  from  among  them." 

Let  us,  then,  primarily  seek  not  honor,  nor  position,  nor  money, 
not  social  standing,  but  let  us  seek  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  His 
righteousness  and  then  incidentally  all  these  very  desirable  things  will 
follow. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  to  this  end  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Come  let  us  anew  our  jour- 
ney pursue." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Wm.  W.  Seegmiller,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Kanab  stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Sunday  morning,  notice  be- 
ing given  that  a  general  Priesthood  meeting  would  be  held  this  eve- 
ning; and  that  a  special  Priesthood  meeting  would  be  held  on  Satur- 
day morning  at  10  o'clock. 


THIRD  DAY 


The  Conference  met  on  Sunday  morning,  April  9,  at  10  o'clock ; 
all  the  seats  being  occupied,  as  well  as  the  aisles,  where  many  stood 
during  the  services,  and  hundreds  by  the  doors  unable  to  gain  admission. 
There  was,  besides,  a  crowded  overflow  meeting  in  the  Assembly  Hall. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  and  announced  the  opening 
hymn. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire 
is  burning." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Edward  H.  Anderson,  of  the  presi- 
dency of  the  Granite  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn,  "Hail !  bright  millennial  day  of  rest." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

ANNOUNCING   A    MEETING   OF   TWO   AND   ONE    HALF  HOURS 

This  is  certainly  a  very  wonderful  audience  for  such  a  stormy 
day.  We  feel  grateful  because  of  the  desire  on  the  part  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  to  attend  their  meetings — that  we  have  this  wonderful 
audience.  If  a  person  has  a  journey  of  two  hundred  miles  to  travel, 
and,  at  the  end  of  that  time,  finds  that  he  must  go  another  fifty,  it 
makes  him  very  tired  indeed,  but  if  he  starts  out  for  two  hundred 
fifty  miles  to  begin  with,  he  is  not  weary  or  worn  out  when  he  ar- 
rives at  the  end.  Usually,  we  are  here  two  hours  but  we  are  going 
to  make  it  two  and  a-half  today.'  T  thought  if  I  gave  you  fair  notice, 
you  would  not  be  so  fidgety  as  you  otherwise  would. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

I  wish  to  read  from  the  52nd  chapter  of  Isaiah  beginning  with 
the  7th  verse : 

"How  beautiful  upon  the  mountains  are  the  feet  of  him  that  bnngeth 
good  tidings,  that  publisbeth  peace ;  that  bringeth  good  tidings  of  good,  that 
pubhsheth  salvation;  thii,  saith  unto  Zion,  Thy  God  reigneth. 

"Thy  watchmen  shall  lift  up  the  voice ;  with  the  voice  together  shall  they 
sing ;  for  they  shall  see  eye  to  eye,  when  the  Lord  shall  bring  again  Zion. 

"Break  forth  into  joy,  sing  together,  ye  waste  places  of  Jerusalem ;  for 
the  Lord  hath  comforted  His  people,  He  hath  redeemed  Jerusalem. 

'1  he  Lord  hath  made  bare  His  holy  arm  in  the  eyes  of  all  the  nations ; 
and  all  the  ends  ot  the  earth  shall  see  the  salvation  of  our  God." 

WHAT  OF  THE  DAY  AND  HOUR  IN  WHICH  WE  LIVE? 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  belong  to  a  Church  that  has 
watchmen,  who  sing  together  in  unison,  who  indeed  have  the  vision, 
the  light,  and  the  inspiration  of  the  living  God,  to  direct  this  people. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


83 


When  the  people  come  together,  as  we  do  on  these  great  occasions, 
there  may  be  in  the  hearts  of  many,  the  cry,  "Watchman,  what  of 
the  night,  and  what  of  the  hour,  and  what  of  the  day  in  which  we 
live?" 

But  that  cry  is  not  made  in  vain.  The  hour,  the  times,  and  the 
seasons  in  which  we  live,  are  known  and  have  been  revealed  during 
the  sessions  of  this  conference,  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  not 
groping  in  the  dark,  and  we  live  in  the  day  that  Isaiah  was  talking 
about  when,  upon  tbe  mountains  of  Ephraim,  where  we  stand,  the 
watchmen  shall  sing  together  in  unity ;  the  day  when  the  waste  places 
shall  be  redeemed ;  and  Jerusalem,  as  we  heard  at  this  conference, 
stands  on  the  threshold  of  her  redemption,  for  the  Lord  hath  decreed 
it. 

A  PEOPLE  WITH  A  GREAT  MISSION 

I  rejoice,  I  say,  to  live  and  to  be  identified  and  associated  with 
a  people  who  have  the  great  mission  that  has  been  committed  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  rejoice,  with  my  brethren,  in  the  thoughts  ex- 
pressed by  the  distinguished  gentlemen,  who  spoke  to  us  following  the 
remarkable  address  of  the  chief  watchman  upon  the  towers  of  Zion, 
our  president.  I  thought  that  Professor  Carver  might  have  referred 
to  what  he  has  written  with  reference  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  He 
s'ated,  in  our  hearing,  that  he  thought  this  was  one  of  the  most  fruitful 
fields  in  the  world  to  study  those  who  were  dealing  with  great  em- 
pire building  questions.  He  wrote,  two  years  ago,  in  a  preface  to  a 
book  published  by  Professor  Warren  H.  Wilson  of  Harvard,  entitled 
Evolution  of  the  Country  Community,  deploring  the  tendency  on  the 
part  of  the  majority  of  the  people  of  this  country  to  move  from 
the  rural  communities  and  the  small  towrts  into  the  larger  cities.  He 
commented  upon  the  exceptions  to  this  general  rule,  and  he  found  the 
exceptions  among  the  "Mormon"  people.  He  has  been  here ;  he  has 
studied  us.  It  is  not  only  considered  a  fruitful  field  by  him  upon 
the  occasion  of  this  visit,  his  attention  has  been  upon  it  a  long  time, 
or  he  would  not  have  said  what  I  now  quote  from  his  introductory 
chapter : 

"The  elements  of  permanent  cultivation  of  the  soil  are  found  in  greater 
niimber  among  the  'Mormons' " — [You  will  note  he  mentions  them  first]  — 
"Scotch,  Irish.  Presbyterians,  and  Pennsylvania  Germans,  who  are  the  best 
American  agriculturists." 

A  PEOPLE  WHO  MAINTAIN  SELF-CONTROL 

Professor  Wilson  said  in  his  book,  in  a  later  chapter,  "The 
'Mormons'  represent  in  the  highest  degree,  these  exceptional  farm 
communities  in  the  United  States.  Perhaps  no  other  so  large  or  pow- 
erful a  body  of  united  farmers  is  found  in  the  whole  country."  Then 
I  thought  of  something  Professor  Carver  said  in  that  very  excellent 
work  he  has  published,  entitled,  The  Religion  Worth  Having.  He 
asks  the  question:  "What  is  the  best  religion,"  and  answers  it  in 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


these  words :  "The  best  religion  is,  first,  that  which  acts  most  power- 
fully as  a  spur  to  energy ;  and  second,  directs  that  energy  most  pro- 
ductively." I  was  thinking  upon  these  utterances  of  the  distinguished 
gentleman,  who  was  a  visitor  and  a  speaker  at  this  conference,  and 
in  connection  with  his  very  remarkable  address  which  I  was  privi- 
leged to  hear  at  the  University  the  other  day,  in  which  he  summed  up 
his  whole  answer  to  the  question,  "How  much  civilization  can  we 
stand?"  He  said:  "The  answer  is  found  in  our  ability  to  maintain 
self-control."  When  I  think  of  these  questions,  and;  khe  sugges- 
tion in  his  message,  I  ask:  "Where  in  all  the  earth,  could  he  or  any 
other  man  go  to  find  a  people  who  maintain  more  self-control  than 
the  Latter-day  Saints? 

RULES  OF  CONDUCT  BROAD  AND  COMPREHENSIVE 

I  tell  you  when  God  laid  the  foundation  of  this  Church,  He 
gave  us  the  principles  and  rule  of  conduct  for  the  membership  of 
this  Church,  so  broad,  so  complete  and  comprehensive,  that  upon  that 
foundation  we  can  build  to  attain  heights  that  men  never  have  at- 
tained in  the  history  of  this  world.  We  are  here  for  that  purpose; 
we  are  here  to  produce  the  highest  civilization  that  has  ever  graced 
the  foot-stool  of  God. 

THE  DESTINY  OF  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  THEIR  DUTY 

IN   REACHING  IT 

If  this  people  will  listen  to  the  voice  of  the  watchmen,  who,  in 
the  days  that  are  past,  have  successfully  piloted  this  people  to  their 
present  state  of  efficiency,  on  the  farm,  in  their  commercial  relations, 
in  the  family  institutions,  and  in  the  morals  of  the  people,  I  testify  to 
you  there  will  be  no  disappointment.  Every  principle  by  which  these 
problems  may  be  solved  has  been  delivered  to  this  people.  We  did 
not  come  here  to  be  imitators.  If  there  is  anything  good  or  praise- 
worthy, we  seek  after  these  things,  but  we  are  not  here  to  be  lured 
from  the  great  goal  and  end,  which  is  to  build  up  the  most  perfect 
race  of  people  that  have  lived,  and  they  will  not  be  perfected  by 
talking  about  it.  We  will  attain  that  end  when  we  can  maintain  full 
self-control.  When  I  listened  to  those  stirring  words  from  President 
Ivins  relative  to  the  conditions  that  obtain  in  the  world,  indicating 
that  even  in  our  own  blessed  land,  there  is  a  loss  of 'self-control ;  that 
men  are  not  willing  to  abide  by  the  constitutional  law  of  the  land; 
when  I  listened  also  to  the  statement  quoted  from  a  distinguished 
senator  to  the  effect  that  there  are  no  interests  in  this  country  now 
that  are  not  bound  up  together  for  selfish  purposes,  I  wonder  if  we 
are  not  approaching  the  day  prophesied  of  in  olden  times,  both  upon 
the  eastern  and  the  western  continent,  and  again  uttered  in  this  dis- 
pensation, through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  to  the  effect  that  men 
would  be  bound  in  bundles ;  and  when  the  time  cometh  that  they 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


85 


are  bound  in  bundles,  they  are  ready  for  the  burning;  they  are  ready 
for  destruction. 

THE   DANGER   OF   SELFISHNESS    AND    CLASS  COMBINATIONS 

I  plead  with  you  now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  shall  not 
fall  into  the  ways  of  the  world  in  being  bound  into  selfish  bundles. 
Every  organization  and  institution  that  promotes  the  welfare  of  one 
particular  class  against  the  welfare  and  interest  of  others,  is  dangerous ; 
any  institution,  I  care  not  what  its  name  may  be,  that  makes  you  con- 
cerned only  in  your  own  particular  group  of  workers,  promotes 
selfishness.  Unions  have  never  found  very  much  favor  in  this 
Church;  not  because  we  do  not  like  to  see  our  brethren  of  one  par- 
ticular profession  or  group  affiliated  together,  but  we  see  the  dan- 
ger of  the  system,  the  plan  and  the  purpose  of  it,  which  is  selfish- 
ness, wherein  the  man  within  the  union  or  combination  is  at  enmity 
with  his  brother,  who  is  out  of  the  organization.  There  ought  to 
be,  therefore,  no  feeling  tO'  find  fault  with  the  leaders  of  this  Church, 
who  have  given  counsel  and  advice  to  our  brethren,  with  respect  to 
this  matter  because  they  see  dangers  that  we  can  not  see.  The  ap- 
peal to  selfishness  is  dangerous,  and  there  never  was  a  period  in 
the  world's  history  when  it  was  more  rampant  than  it  is  today.  We 
talk  about  the  time  when  the  Redeemer  of  the  world  shall  come,  when 
peace  shall  be  in  the  earth,  when  we  shall  enjoy  universal  brother- 
hood. But  outside  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  it  seems  to  me,  there  never  was  a  period,  in  modern  days 
at  least,  when  there  was  less  universal  brotherhrood  than  there  is  to- 
day, and  more  selfishness  displayed  than  -ever  before.  But  you 
brethren,  sixty  thousand  of  you,  who  have  filled  missions,  who  left 
your  homes,  paid  your  way,  to  preach  this  gospel  to  strangers,  what 
was  your  training?  It  was  a  training  in  universal  brotherhood.  It 
shows  that  we  love  our  brothers  and  sisters  in  other  parts  of  the 
world,  sufficiently,  that  we  not  only  pray  for  them  but  we  spend  our 
good  means  and  time  to  bring  them  salvation. 

THE  LAW  OF  TITHING  A  REMEDY  FOR  SELFISHNESS 

The  law  of  tithing  which  has  been  revealed  to  this  people  makes 
for  the  destruction  of  selfishness,  and  for  the  establishment  of  uni- 
versal brotherhood.  And  how  much  that  is  needed  now,  when  we 
think  that  a  half-million  people  in  this  country  today  are  on  strike 
because  of  the  warfare  between  capital  and  labor,  wherein  the  coun- 
try itself,  is  in  danger  and  in  peril,  and  the  whole  world  is  in  dis- 
tress because  of  the  conflict  between  capital  and  labor.  I  have  reached 
the  conclusion  that  the  Lord  knew  the  needs  of  our  times  when  he 
gave  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  the  law  of  tithing.  And  prior 
to  that,  he  gave  him  the  law  of  consecration,  a  plan  by  which,  in  the 
days  of  Enoch,  men  had  all  things  in  common ;  there  were  no  rich 
and  no  poor  among  them.    Our  people  were  willing  to  go  forward 


86 


GEXERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  enter  into  that  order,  but  they  were  not  prepared,  they  lacked 
training,  they  lacked  preparation,  and  the  Lord  gave  the  law  of  tith- 
ing in  his  own  words,  "as  a  schoolmaster,"  to  bring  us  to  the  higher 
law.  I  want  to  tell  you  that  the  day  of  graduation  from  that  school 
is  coming,  but  it  will  not  come  by  a  little  group  going  off  here,  and 
another  there,  to  undertake  to  precede  the  Church.  It  will  come 
when  God  inspires  His  prophet  to  step  forward  and  speak  the  word, 
and  many  men  and  women  will  be  prepared  for  graduation,  to  enter 
into  those  principles  that  are  altogether  righteous,  that  God  has  de- 
creed must  be  established  when  the  Son  of  God  comes  to  reign  and 
rule  among  men  upon  the  earth.  They  will  come  from  that  school, 
and  be  the  men  and  women  who  have  paid  their  honest  tithing,  and 
those  who  have  not,  will  be  ready  to  go  back  in  the  primer  class  and 
start  all  over.  How  many  are  prepared  to  do  greater  things  ?  Flow 
well  have  we  attended  school  ?  I  appeal  to  you  now,  at  this  time,  when 
men  are  tempted,  because  of  their  financial  circumstances,  because 
of  their  distress  and  inability  to  pay  their  obligations,  perhaps,  to 
depart  from  the  commandment  of  the  Lord,  and  deny  Him  that  which 
belongs  to  Him.  I  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters — I  know  it, 
in  the  very  depths  of  my  heart ;  I  know  it,  and  I  say  it  to  you.  As 
the  Lord  lives,  if  this  people  will  pay  their  honest  tithing  and  prac- 
tice economy,  as  suggested  by  the  President  of  this  Church,  you  will 
meet  your  debts  and  your  obligations  and  be  free.  I  promise  you  that 
if  we  will  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  we  will  never  lack 
means  to  the  accomplishment  of  the  purposes  which  he  has  in  store 
for  us,  if  we  will  use  the  material  things  as  but  a  means  to  a  glorious 
end. 

HOW  THIS  PEOPLE  HAVE  LEARNED  OBEDIENCE  AND  SELF-CONTROL 

I  said  that  we  are  men  and  women  who  have  learned  self-con- 
trol. We  have  learned  it  in  the  payment  of  tithing ;  we  have  learned 
it  in  obeying  the  laws  of  the  land.  One  of  the  things  that  men  are 
now  deploring  is  the  tendency  upon  the  part  of  the  people,  even  of 
our  own  country,  to  disregard  and  disobey  the  laws  of  the  land.  I 
hold  up  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  to  the  world  the  example  of  this 
Church,  in  obeying  the  law  as  an  evidence  of  our  superior  ability  in 
self-control. 

President  Ivins  called  our  attention  to  those  experiences  through 
which  we  passed  in  the  days  of  President  Woodruff,  when  we  re- 
signed the  practice  of  a  principle  that  God  had  revealed,  when  we 
gave  it  up.  What  for?  In  order  to  obey  the  law  of  the  land.  It 
produced  hardship,  heart-ache,  sorrow  and  distress.  Men  had  shown 
their  devotion  to  that  principle  and  had  suffered  bonds  and  imprison- 
ment, but  in  order  that  we  might  be  a  law-abiding  people,  honoring 
and  obeying  and  sustaining  the  law,  we  surrendered  it,  no  matter 
what  it  cost ;  the  practice  of  it  we  gave  up,  and  I  hold  it  before 
the  people  of  this  country   as   an   evidence   of   the   ability   of  the 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


87 


''Mormon"  people  to  honor  and  to  obey  the  law.  Let  us  not  forget 
it,  Latter-day  Saints,  that  there  is  a  duty  incumbent  upon  us,  to  con- 
tinue, to  set  a  law  abiding  example.  The  Lord  said  (you  will  find 
it  recorded  in  the  115th  Section  of  the  book  of  Dbctrine  and  Coven- 
ants) that  he  called  upon  the  Church  to  come  out  of  the  world  and 
to  lift  up  an  ensign  to  the  nations.  That  is  what  we  are  here  for, 
to  show  them  the  way. 

TO   REACH   THE  GOAL  WE   MUST   PAY  THE   PRICE   OF   MORAL  INTEGRITY 

I  speak  now  of  another  principle  involving  the  same  question. 
No  people  ever  shall  reach  the  heights  except  they  are  pure  in  heart. 
There  is  coming  from  abroad,  reaching  us  in  some  form  or  another, 
and  it  will  continue  to  come,  the  demoralizing  influences  that  are  in 
the  world  ;  that  have  broken  down  the  moral  standards  of  the  nations 
of  the  earth.  I  care  not  what  they  say  against  us  in  England.  They 
are  saying  that  we  have  selected  handsome  boys  to  go  to  England  just 
now,  when  there  are  two  million  more  women  in  England  than  men. 
to  lure  the  women  and  girls  of  England  to  come  over  here  for  im- 
moral purposes.  As  Sir  Phillip  Gibbs  said  to  us  privately,  in  com- 
menting upon  it,  "You  would  not  need  to  send  boys  over  to  England 
to  do  that,  particularly  handsome  boys ;  if  you  would  just  put  a  little 
advertisement  in  the  paper  that  you  would  pay  their  fare  you  would 
get  a  boat-load  a  week."  Let  them  say  what  they  please  in  England 
or  anywhere  else.  I  care  not  what  they  say ;  but  what  I  am  concerned 
in  is  what  we  do.  All  the  world  may  condemn  us  and  count  us  as 
the  scum  of  the  earth,  impure  and  unclean,  but  that  will  not 
keep  us  down,  nor  deter  us  from  reaching  the  heights.  On  the  other 
hand,  all  the  world  may  speak  well  of  us  and  praise  us  and  give  us 
credit  for  being  a  virtuous  people,  and  if  we  are  not,  we  cannot  rise, 
by  all  the  plaudits  of  the  world.  So,  the  secret  of  our  attaining  the 
goal  is  to  pay  the  price  of  moral  integrity.  We  must  maintain  the 
standard  that  has  been  exalted  for  this  people.  I  have  heard  it,  as 
you  have.  From  the  clays  of  my  boyhood,  I  was  taught  by  my  mother 
to  live  as  clean  and  as  chaste  and  as  pure  as  the  girl  I  asked  to  be  my 
wife,  the  mother  of  my  children.  It  has  been  taught  by  this  Church, 
that  next  to  murder  itself,  is  the  crime  of  sexual  impurity.  Jesus 
said,  discussing  the  question  of  the  morals  of  men,  "He  that  looketh 
upon  a  woman  to  lust  after  her  hath  committed  adultery  already  with 
her  in  his  heart."  In  these  last  days  he  has  said  that  he  that  looketh 
upon  a  woman  to  lust  after  her  and  does  not  repent,  shall  deny  the 
faith.  There  never  was  an  immoral  people  who  did  not  entertain 
immoral  thoughts.  I  believe  this  generation  excels  all  others 
in  doing  this  wicked  thing  and  we  are  encouraged  by  reason  of  the 
dress  and  deportment  of  women,  innocently,  sometimes,  perhaps,  and 
yet  in  others,  deliberately  to  attract  the  attention  and  make  the  sexual 
appeal.  They  deport  themselves  in  such  a  manner  that  their  very  ap- 
pearance is  suggestive  to  impure  and  unclean  thoughts.    The  depict- 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ing  of  the  sex  stories  that  we  now  often  see  upon  the  "Movie" 
screen,  tends  in  the  same  direction,  and  I  could  mention  other  things. 

APPEAL    TO    YOUNG    MEN    AND    WOMEN  TO 
MAINTAIN  OUR  MORAL  STANDARDS 

Now,  I  say  to  you,  daughters  of  Israel,  do  not  fall  into  the 
snares  of  the  world.  It  is  incumbent  upon  you,  not  only  to  preserve 
yourself,  but  to  save  your  brothers.  If  the  young  men  of  this  Church 
do  not  keep  themselves  clean,  woe,  woe  unto  the  daughters  of  Israel ! 
You,  young  men,  it  is  incumbent  upon  you  to  preserve  our  standards ; 
to  preserve  the  moral  integrity  of  the  daughters  of  Israel;  and  re- 
member that  next  to  murder  itself,  is  the  crime  of  sexual  impurity. 
Let  that  be  burned  into  our  hearts  and  our  souls,  and  we  will  weather 
the  storms  that  beat  upon  us. 

PARENTS  SPIOULD  ASSUME   MORE  RESPONSIBILITY 

Then,  parents,  let  us  assume  a  little  more  responsibility ;  do  not 
take  too  much  for  granted.  I  have  said  to  my  own  sons  and  daughters. 
;"It  isn't  that  I  do  not  trust  you  and  have  confidence  in  you,  but 
I  know  the  temptations  of  the  hour ;  I  am  not  going  to  let  you  stand 
alone ;  I  am  going  to  keep  a  little  closer  to  you  than  I  have  ever  done 
before.  Too  many  courtships  are  going  on  in  automobiles,  instead 
of  next  door  where  father  and  mother  are  within  the  home.  I  am 
appealing  to  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  we  shall  not  follow 
these  alluring  things,  because  they  are  deceptive. 

A    CALL  TO  REPENTANCE 

I  say  to  you  that  the  civilization  of  this  world  has  reached  its 
pinnacle.  Except  it  shall  repent  and  serve  God,  there  will  never  be 
any  greater  civilization  in  this  world  than  there  is  today.  They  can- 
not go  higher,  because  their  foundation  is  not  solid.  They  have  not 
learned  self-control.  We  who  have  set  out  upon  a  great  task  of 
doing  things,  that  never  have  been  done,  let  us  remember  the  lessons 
we  are  to  learn;  and  if  we  adhere  to  these  things,  we  shall  "go  over 
the  top ;"  we  shall  attain  the  heights.  May  God  help  us  to  get  clearly 
in  our  mind  the  vision  of  what  we  are  called  to  do  and  the  ambition 
to  do  it,  by  individually  maintaining  control,  while  chaos  shall  reign 
out  there.  Do  you  know  what  is  coming?  Oh,  my  heart  is  sick 
when  I  see  what  is  coming  in  the  world.  Do  you  want  to  know  what 
it  is?  You  read  what  happened  when  Rome  became  immoral  and  de- 
generate; you  read  what  happened  on  this  land  of  America  when 
the  Lamanite  and  the  Nephites  became  degenerate.  Kings  will  be 
murdered  upon  their  thrones,  bands  of  men  with  common  interest 
shall  seize  the  government  for  a  moment,  to  be  overthrown  by  other 
combinations  of  interest ;  property  will  be  unsafe ;  law  will  be  mocked 
at,  and  the  rule  that  will  obtain  is  the  rule  of  self-interest  and  selfish- 
ness, except  men  shall  repent. 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


89 


A  VISION  FOR  ZION 

But,  I  see  something  different  for  Zion.  I  see  her  rise  and  shine 
in  glory  and  power  and  might,  because  she  has  the  truth,  if  she  will 
only  treasure  it  and  live  up  to  it.  The  day  will  come  when  people 
shall  come  from  the  east  and  the  west,  and  the  north  and  the  south, 
and  say,  "Come,  let  us  go  up  to  the  mountain  of  the  house  of  the  God 
of  Jacob,  that  there  we  may  learn  to  walk  in  her  paths."  and  so,  we 
shall  attract  not  only  them  but  we  shall  attract  the  angels  of  God  and 
bring  to  live  upon  the  earth  again,  among  men,  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  We  can  speed  that  day,  for  he  is  waiting  upon  us.  Let  us 
rouse  ourselves,  and  go  forth  from  this  conference  with  a  determina- 
tion that,  better  than  ever,  we  will  adhere  to  the  standards  of  Zion,  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

i 

ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 

(Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church.') 

In  my  memory  I  go  back  ten  years  ago  from  this  Conference.  I 
was  not  present,  however,  but  I  suppose  a  great  many  of  you  were 
here  when  the  opportunity  came  for  you  to  raise  your  hands  in  vote 
to  sustain  the  patriarch  of  the  Church.  You  sustained  a  man  you 
did  not  know,  and  whom  many  of  you  had  never  seen.  Today,  I  am 
grateful  for  the  testimony  which  has  been  strengthened  in  me,  es- 
pecially during  the  past  ten  years.  It  seems  only  a  clay,  in  one  sense, 
since  that  Sabbath  day — the  6th  of  April  1912 — when,  as  a  branch 
president,  seven  hundred  miles  from  here,  I  had  entered  upon  my 
duty  as  a  humble  elder  in  the  Church,  while  the  great  multitude  of 
Saints  who  had  gathered  here  in  this  building,  raised  their  hands  to 
sustain  me  as  the  Patriarch  of  the  Church. 

The  Lord  has  blessed  me  in  my  ministry  and,  before  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  I  wish  to  acknowledge  the  hand  of  God  in  his 
blessings  unto  me.  and  unto  this  people.  I  have  observed  that  during 
my  tenure  of  office  many  important  changes  have  taken  place  in  the 
growth  of  the  Church.  Many  of  its  leading  men  and  women  have  fin-- 
ished  their  earthly  missions  and  are  separated  from  us.  I  have  seen 
the  workings  of  the  Church  here  at  home,  in  the  stakes  and  wards  of 
Zion,  and  in  the  mission  fields,  and  I  see  the  Church  going  on  in  growth, 
in  keeping  with  the  wonderful  teachings  which  you  have  just  listened 
to,  in  obedience  to  the  true  law  of  Christ,  the  love  of  our  fellows,  liv- 
ing the  pure  laws  of  life,  which  have  been  revealed  from  heaven  from 
our  Father  and  our  Redeemer.  I  not  only  see  the  work  of  the  Lord 
progressing  here  at  home,  in  the  wards  and  stakes  of  Zion,  but  I 
see  the  honest  in  heart  of  the  world  being  brought  out  of  the  world, 
through  obedience  to  the  teachings  of  humble  elders  and  the  mission- 
aries in  general,  both  men  and  women,  throughout  the  world,  in  the 
missions  that  have  been  organized  by  the  Church.  I  see  today  that 
the  missions  are  gradually  partaking  of  the  nature  of  stakes.  Further 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


organization  and  growth  will  go  forth  to  gather  out  the  honest  in 
heart  and  those  who  are  willing  to  take  upon  them  the  name  of  Christ 
and  enter  into  these  holy  alliances  for  the  establishment  and  growth 
of  truth  and  righteousness  in  the  world.  This  work  has  been  organ- 
ized and  given  to  the  earth,  never  more  to  be  thrown  down  nor  given 
to  another  people.  It  has  been  given  for  a  purpose,  and  the  Lord 
will,  in  his  own  due  time  and  way,  see  to  it  that  that  purpose  will  be 
accomplished  and  fulfilled.  The  responsibility  is  upon  us  today.  God 
grant  that  we  may  have  the  power,  the  courage  of  our  convictions,  to 
stand  by  our  standards,  and  be  equal  to  the  responsibilities  given  us. 
I  pray  that  God  will  bless  and  sustain  those  whom  He  has  called  to 
preside  in  the  Church — our  President — the  First  Presidency,  and  all 
associated  in  this  great  work,  both  directly  and  indirectly,  whether 
called  to  labor  at  home  or  abroad.  With  all  the  power  that  the  Lord 
has  given  me,  my  heart  goes  out  in  blessings  to  those  who  are  in 
the  Church  today  and  those  who  are  willing  to  come  in,  in 
the  proper  way,  that  we  may  all  rally  together  and  work  together  for 
the  standards  of  truth  and  virtue,  even  in  the  face  of  evil  witnesses, 
who  decry  us  as  untrue  and  false. 

I  suppose  there  will  always  be  someone  to  rise  up  in  the  world 
to  testify  against  the  work  of  the  Lord,  but  He  will  triumph  in  the 
end;  and  in  the  present  time,  the  great  responsibility  of  carrying  orf 
His  work  is  given  to  us — the  great  multitude  that  is  assisting  to  bring 
about  the  blessings  which  were  pronounced  upon  the  head  of  Ephraim 
the  son  of  Joseph,  to  fulfil  the  blessings  of  Joseph,  who  was  separated 
from  his  brethren,  and  became  a  savior  unto  his  people,  are  being  ful- 
filled today  in  our  very  lives.  We  are  the  nation  today  that  should 
preside  and  become  established  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains,  even  in 
the  utmost  bounds  of  the  everlasting  hills,  where  that  great  salvation 
for  all  the  world  should  be  established,  where  not  only  the  house  of 
Abraham  and  Isaac  and  Jacob  should  be  established,  and  saved,  but 
where  all  of  God's  chosen  children  should  receive  their  blessings — 
and  they  shall  receive  them  at  the  hands  of  Ephraim. 

Therefore,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  kinsmen  in  the  house  of 
Joseph,  descendants  of  his  chosen  son,  let  us  be  true  to  our  birth- 
right— valiant  workers  in  this  great  cause  of  righteousness  and  be 
prepared  to  administer  the  promised  blessings. 

We  were  admonished  by  the  President  of  the  Church  in  repeat- 
ing that  great  truth  that  is  revealed  to  us,  that  all  of  our  blessings  are 
predicated  upon  obedience.  No  matter  how  great  or  how  small  the 
blessing  we  desire,  we  must  first  learn  the  law  upon  which  that  blessing 
is  predicated,  and  then,  in  obedience  to  that  law,  we  must  work  for 
our  blessings.  If  we  are  to  share  in  this  great  work  and  officiate  in 
turning  the  keys  for  the  blessing  of  all  mankind,  of  every  kindred, 
tongue  and  nation,  we  must  learn  the  law  and  we  must  obey  it.  We 
must  receive  our  blessings  first,  else  we  cannot  share  them  with  our 
fellows. 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG 


91 


In  the  name  of  the  Lord,  I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  our  Father 
in  heaven  may  be  upon  this  people,  and  upon  all  those  who  are  called 
to  preside  and  lead  in  their  midst ;  that  we  may  get  the  blessings  which 
our  Father  has  provided  for  us ;  that  we  may  stand  true  and  firm  in 
the  faith;  that  we  may  live  virtuous  lives  as  sons  and  daughters  of 
God,  and  be  worthy  to  administer  the  promised  blessings  to  the  world,  as 
the  people  come  out,  cleansing  themselves  from  the  sins  of  the  world 
and  espousing  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  There  are  in 
the  Church,  as  it  is  organized  today,  over  two  hundred  patriarchs 
bearing  the  holy  Priesthood,  with  power  to  administer  blessings  unto 
the  faithful  members  of  the  Church.  I  pray  God  to  bless  and  magni- 
fy them,  that  they  may  honor  that  great  gift  of  pronouncing  blessings 
upon  the  people.  God  bless  us  all.  in  our  homes,  in  our  fields  and 
places  of  business,  bless  our  labors  both  temporal  and  spiritual,  and 
bless  those  who  befriend  us  at  home  and  abroad,  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG 

{President  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

My  brothers  and  sisters :  I  trust  that  I  shall  be  able  to  make  you 
hear  some  of  the  remarks  that  I  shall  make,  if  not  all. 

On  the  30th  day  of  June,  1843,  it  is  recorded  that  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prisoner  in  the  hands  of  Mr.  Reynolds,  a  sheriff 
from  Missouri,  who  had  endeavored  to  carry  him  away,  across  the. 
border  of  the  state  of  Illinois,  into  Missouri,  that  they  might  there 
destroy  his  life.  I  believe  that  was  their  intention,  and  I  believe 
that  he  was  impressed  with  that  thought,  for  he  says,  on  this  occa- 
sion :  "I  was  a  prisoner  in  the  hands  of  Reynolds,  the  agent  of 
Missouri,  and  Wilson,  his  assistant.  They  were  prisoners  in  the  hands 
of  Sheriff  Campbell  who  had  delivered  the  whole  of  us  into  the  hands 
of  Stephen  L.  Markham."  By  the  way,  Brother  Markham  was  a  per- 
sonal friend,  and  faithful  follower,  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  so 
that  the  prophet  expressed  himself  as  full  of  joy  and  rejoicing  that 
he  was  once  more  in  the  hands  of  his  friends. 

Years  after  the  Saints  had  left  the  city  of  Nauvoo,  in  company 
with  my  wife  I  visited  the  great  exposition  of  the  western  states 
and  of  the  Union  Pacific  Railroad  combined,  held  in  Omaha,  Nebras- 
ka. After  the  exposition  had  received  our  attention  and  we  had  vis- 
ited as  long"  as  we  desired,  we  took  a  journey  down  to  the  city  of 
Nauvoo.  I  found  the  city  of  Nauvoo  consisted  of  about  eight  hun- 
dred inhabitants,  and  they  had  removed  the  city  from  the  banks  of  the 
Mississippi  river,  and  from  the  homes  surrounding  the  mansion  house 
and  dwelling  place  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  up  on  to  higher 
ground  and  further  out  on  to  the  prairie,  making  a  new  town  or  a 
new  city,  as  they  claimed.  The  walls  of  the  temple  had  also  been 
taken  down  and  removed,  stone  by  stone,  and  much  of  that  material 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


composing  the  lime-rock  walls,  was  taken  and  builded  into  a  school 
house,  just  east  and  north  of  where  the  temple  stood.  A  few  of  the 
marked  stones  in  the  temple — the  union,  clasping  of  the  hands,  and 
the  faces  representing-  different  individuals  or  different  scenes  in  the 
history  of  creation  were  still  held  by  private  individuals,  as  stones 
representing  a  curious  condition  or  time  of  the  building  of  the  temple 
by  the  Saints  in  Nauvoo.  They  were  retained  as  a  matter  of  curios- 
ity; not  that  they  had  any  veneration  for  these  building  stones  that 
became  so  sacred  in  the  walls  of  the  temple  of  the  Saints. 

We  visited  the  Mansion  House  also.  A  Mr.  Sells  was  in 
possession  of  it,  a  young  German  and  his  wife.  They  had  gone  there 
because  they  could  rent  the  place,  with  an  acre  of  land  containing  an 
orchard,  for  the  small  sum  of  $50  a  year ;  and  so,  we  found  them  liv- 
ing in  the  old  home  of  the  Prophet.  After  it  became  time  for  us  to 
depart  and  close  our  visit  with  this  very  interesting  young  couple,  I 
asked  the  privilege  of  remaining  in  the  mansion  house  over  night 
and  sleeping  in  one  of  the  rooms  where  the  Prophet  once  dwelt. 
My  wish  was  readily  granted  and  they  prepared  a  bed  for  us  in  the 
reception  room,  on  the  east  side  of  the  hall. 

[  make  mention  of  this  matter  to  you  because  my  feelings  were 
very  much  wrought  up  during  this  visit,  and  I  had  deep  sympathy, 
in  memory  of  the  suffering  of  those  martyrs,  of  their  imprisonment 
and  their  final  murder  by  an  armed  mob  in  Carthage  jail,  and  the 
grief  that  came  over  the  people  at  the  time  of  their  burial  when  their 
remains  were  taken  from  the  funeral  services  and  deposited  in  the 
earth.  I  remember  very  well  the  feelings  of  veneration  that  came 
over  me  that  morning ;  and  a  new  love  and  a  new  light  seemed  to 
dawn  in  my  heart,  in  realizing  that  I  had  come  to  view  and  had  been 
permitted  to  see  the  blood-stains  of  the  martyrs  that  were  left  at  the 
time  they  lay  in  that  sacred  room. 

I  remember  very  well  the  first  time  that  I  ever  beheld  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  He  sat  upon  his  horse,  "Old  Charley,"  as  he  affec- 
tionately called  his  saddle-horse,  a  very  fine  specimen  of  a  messenger 
horse,  dark  in  color,  with  a  white  stripe  in  his  face ;  and  as  I  saw 
him  sitting  upon  this  noble  animal,  dressed  in  his  full  uniform,  as 
Lieutenant-General  of  the  Nauvoo  Legion,  at  the  head  of  that  Le- 
gion, in  the  Spring  of  the  year  1842,  as  the  rank  and  file  were  on 
parade  in  their  uniforms,  marching  to  and  fro  on  a  prairie  lot,  ad- 
joining the  farm  owned  by  the  Prophet  Joseph,  the  sight  of  the 
Prophet  at  this  time  made  a  lasting  impression  upon  my  mind,  that 
never  has  been  erased.  I  felt  that  I  was  looking  upon  the 
greatest  man  that  I  had  ever  seen,  and  truly  his  appearance  was 
prepossessing,  dressed  in  his  full  uniform  of  the  State  Militia,  as 
commanding  general  of  the  Nauvoo  Legion,  this  military  organization 
composed  of  Latter-day  Saints  entirely.  I  remember  often  seeing  the 
Prophet  after  this  occasion,  and  every  time  that  I  saw  him,  I  was 
more  and  more  impressed  with  the  sacredness  of  his  calling,  with  the 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG 


93 


nobility  of  his  manhood,  and  in  lesser  degree  with  the  great  work 
that  he  was  establishing  for  the  benefit  of  human  kind.  On  this 
morning,  that  I  mentioned  in  the  beginning  of  my  remarks  (see  Vol. 
V.,  History  of  the  Church,  pp.  459-475),  he  expressed  his  joy  and 
satisfaction  that  he  was  once  more  at  liberty,  freed  from  the  hands 
of  his  enemies  and  among  his  own  people  again.  He  was  met  on  this 
occasion  at  the  outskirts  of  the  city  by  his  brother  Hyrum  and  by  his 
wife,  Emma,  in  company  with  many  of  the  leading  citizens  of  Han- 
cock county,  escorted  to  his  home  again,  on  the  30th  day  of  June,  1843. 

The  impressions  of  his  greatness,  of  his  prophetic  ministry,  that 
I  received,  although  but  a  small  boy,  only  six  years  of  age,  I  never 
have  forgotten.  On  the  morning  of  June  23,  1844,  he  passed  our  little 
dwelling,  riding  along  the  road  known  as  Mulholland  Street,  to- 
ward the  town  of  Carthage,  in  company  with  his  brother  Hyrum  and 
some  ten  or  fifteen  brethren,  members  of  the  Church,  who  were  ac- 
companying him  on  his  way  to  Carthage.  On  the  steps  of  our  little 
dwelling,  some  few  rods  away  from  Mulholland  Street,  with  my 
mother  and  her  four  children,  I  saw  them  pass.  My  mother  pointed 
to  the  company  as  they  passed  plainly  in  our  sight,  and  said,  "Chil- 
dren, there  go  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  his  brother  Hyrum,  on  their 
way  to  Carthage,"  and  she  added.  "1  fear  they  are  going  to  their 
martyrdom."  Those  words  impressed  me  with  a  deep  meaning  of 
sorrow,  for  they  were  prophetic  indeed. 

On  the  28th  day  of  June,  at  5  o'clock,  about  day  light  in  the 
morning,  Jacob  Gates,  our  near  neighbor,  came  to  our  door  and 
rapped  upon  it,  and  said:  "Sister  Jane,  are  you  awake?"  addressing 
my  mother.  He  would  have  said  "Brother  Joseph,  are  you  awake," 
but  my  father  was  on  a  mission  to  the  eastern  states  at  the  time.  So 
my  mother  answered  and  said,  "Yes,  Brother  Gates,"  and  I  never  shall 
forget  the  startled  tone  in  which  she  asked  the  question :  "What  is 
it  ?"  Brother  Gates  replied :  "The  Prophet  Joseph  and  his  brother 
Hyrum  were  murdered  in  Carthage  jail  last  night  at  5  o'clock."  I 
never  remember  of  referring  to  this  matter  directly,  and  talking  it 
over  with  my  mother,  but  the  memory  of  her  words  and  the  memory 
of  the  visit  of  Brother  Gates  and  the  statement  that  he  made  con- 
cerning the  martyrdom  of  the  Prophet  and  Patriarch  of  the  Church 
comes  up  before  me,  and  it  has  never  left  me,  and  the  recognition 
that  I  felt  in  my  very  soul  of  the  greatness  of  that  man,  so  far  as  I 
could  comprehend  it,  have  never  been  separated  from  my  memory 
from  that  time  to  the  present. 

I  rejoice  with  you  today,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  I  have 
a  testimony  of  the  life  and  labors,  acceptable  to  the  Lord,  of  this 
great  man,  that  he  was  indeed  the  Prophet  and  revelator,  the  seer 
of  the  fulness  of  times,  bringing  to  earth  again  for  the  acceptance  of 
mankind,  the  gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ,  organiz- 
ing the  Church  under  the  inspiration  that  God  had  given  unto  him, 
with  all  its  officers  complete,  and  the  quorums  of  the  priesthood,  all 
put  in  perfect  order,  organized  before  his  martyrdom.    He  seemed 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


never  satisfied  to  rest  from  his  labors  until  every  quorum  of  the 
priesthood  was  represented  in  the  organization  of  the  Church. 

In  1834,  a  company  under  his  direction,  went  up  to  the  State  of 
Missouri  to  see  what  could  be  done  in  replacing  the  Saints  again 
in  possession  of  their  homes,  from  which  they  had  been  driven  in 
Missouri,  and  particularly  in  the  town  of  Independence.  This  visit 
was  made,  and  the  company  making  it  was  styled  "Zion's  Camp." 
How  much  they  accomplished,  the  Lord  only  knows,  and  the  good 
that  they  did,  He  knows  also,  for  he  directed  and  led  the  company 
and  piloted  them  until  their  safe  return,  most  of  them,  back  to  their 
homes,  in  fulfilment  of  the  promise  made  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  to 
his  brethren. 

The  quorum  of  the  Twelve  apostles  was  organized  the  following 
spring,  and  the  quorum  of  Seventies,  all  of  which  evidenced  the  de- 
termination of  the  Prophet  to  complete  the  organization  of  the 
Church.  He  had  been  warned,  as  he  declared,  that  his  life  would  not 
be  prolonged,  only  until  time  had  been  given  him  to  finish  his  work, 
which  the  Lord  had  assigned  him. 

I  testify  to  you  today,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  with  what  little 
experience  I  have  had  in  the  Church  for  lo,  these  eighty  years  or 
more ;  I  say  I  know  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Savior 
of  the  world,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  indeed  a  prophet  of  the 
living  God,  and  that  he  has  accomplished  the  purposes  and  the  work 
assigned  to  him,  organizing  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  once  more 
upon  the  earth,  and  I  am  happy  to  say  that  I  have  a  testimony  with- 
in my  heart  today  that  I  am  a  member  of  that  Church. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  all  and  help  us  to  be  faithful  and  true,  I 
pray,  through  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 

A  sacred  solo,  "The  mighty  Lord  hath  spoken,"  was  sung  by  Mrs. 
Laurinda  Brewerton. 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

At  this  moment  I  sympathize  very  heartily  with  the  remark  made 
by  Dr.  Carver  last  Thursday,  as  I  left  him  at  the  Tabernacle  door,  "I 
have  heard  of  many  ways  by  which  a  man  may  lose  his  breath,  but  I 
know  now  that  the  most  effective  method  is  to  speak  before  a  General 
Conference  meeting  in  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle."  Nevertheless,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  glad  to  bear  to  you  my  testimony  of  the  con- 
viction in  my  heart  that  this  is  the  work  of  God. 

THERE  IS  A  SPIRIT  IN  MAN 

Surely  every  person  in  this  vast  congregation,  who  has  tasted  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  can  testify  that  the  words  spoken  during  this 
conference,  have  been  uttered  by  the  inspiration  of  God,  and  not  of  man. 
The  Lord  has  made  His  servants  mighty  and  strong.    "There  is  a 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


95 


spirit  in  man,  and  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty  gives  them  under- 
standing." 

I  rejoice  to  know  that,  if  I  obey  the  commandments  of  God  and  live 
in  accordance  with  my  best  knowledge  of  His  law,  when  great  things 
are  required  of  me,  I  may,  with  confidence,  draw  upon  the  power  of 
God,  to  secure  the  assistance  I  need. 

MATERIAL  HYPOTHESES  DO  NOT  EXPLAIN  THE  WORLD 

As  I  have  listened  with  great  interest  to  the  addresses  made  at 
this  Conference,  from  the  remarkable  key-note  address  given  by  orn 
beloved  president,  to  the  last  address  made,  I  have  been  reminded  over 
and  over  again,  of  the  sober  words  spoken  by  one  of  America's 
greatest  chemists,  who  died  only  about  two  months  ago.  This  man 
was  a  discoverer  of  two  of  the  chemical  elements.  He  had  made  many 
other  notable  contributions  to  human  welfare.  Sometime  before  his 
death,  he  gave  himself  to  the  study  of  the  purification  of  'ether,  with  a 
view  of  making  it  more  serviceable  in  the  surgeon's  operating  room. 
A  short  time  before  he  died,  Dr.  Baskerville,  who  was  both  a  great 
chemist  and  humanitarian,  in  conversation  with  some  of  his  friends, 
reviewed  the  great  advances  in  knowledge  during  his  life  and  the 
peculiarly  intimate  knowledge  that  he  had  gained  of  his  own  field  in 
science.  In  summing  up  the  results  of  his  life's  labor,  he  declared 
that  "There  is  something  which  cannot  be  explained  on  a  purely  materi- 
alistic hypothesis."  This  man,  standing  at  the  pinacle  of  scientific 
knowledge — in  the  full  light  of  man-made  knowledge — declared' 
soberly  to  his  friends  that  w'ith  all  the  knowledge  he  had 
won  in  the  laboratories  and  from  books,  he  was  constrained 
to  say  that  his  knowledge  was  incomplete,  that  there  is  a  spiritual  some- 
thing which  must  be  taken  into  account,  even  in  the  domain  of  science. 
This  declaration  of  a  modern  scientist  is  the  age-old  and  eternal  wail 
of  the  baffled  soul,  which,  rich  in  man-made  knowledge,  stands  helpless 
by  an  impenetrable  wall  which  only  spiritual  truth  can  open  or  move 
away.  His  declaration  is  also  the  great  cry  of  faith  for  man,  when  he 
discovers  his  limitations  and  learns  to  understand  the  value  and  power 
of  faith,  cries  out,  "There  is  something  in  the  world  which  cannot  be 
explained  on  a  purely  materialistic  hypothesis." 

THE  EXPLANATION  OF  EXPLANATIONS 

Ever  since  the  beginning  of  time,  men  have  sought  for  an  explan- 
ation of  the  universe.  Facts  are  merely  the  building  blocks  of -truth ; 
they  have  no  value  in  themselves ;  but  when  facts  are  placed  in  conjj unc- 
tion with  each  other,  in  an  organized  form  in  the  service  of  gneat  ex- 
planations, they  leap  into  life  and  attain  meaning.  The  world  moves 
on,  not  by  the  discovery  of  facts,  but  by  the  explanation  of  the  facts 
that  men  secure ;  and  the  most  rapid  way  of  discovering  new  truth  is  to 
win  the  great  explanations  that  make  coherent  the  innumerable  facts 
of  the  universe. 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


It  is  instinctive  in  the  human  soul  to  seek  for  the  greatest  of  all 
explanations — the  explanation  of  human  existence.  The  questions : 
Whence  comes  man?  What  is  his  purpose  here?  What  will  he  do 
hereafter?  are  the  natural  questions  of  every  human  being  who  thinks 
about  the  things  about  him.  Poets  and  philosophers,  from  the  begin- 
ning of  time,  have  attempted  to  answer  these  fundamental  questions, 
and  thereby  give  satisfaction  to  the  human  soul.  Nations  have  become 
great,  or  have  remained  small ;  have  impressed  themselves  greatly  or 
poorly  upon  the  course  of  human  history,  as  they  have  been  able, 
in  a  greater  or  in  a  smaller  degree,  to  answer  these  fundamental  ques- 
tions regarding  human  existence,  and  to  train  the  people  in  this  knowl- 
edge. A  nation  with  a  purposeless  philosophy  of  man's  existence  has 
never  served  the  world  greatly. 

It  is  the  glory  of  this  Church  that  it  possesses,  and  the  glory  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  he  left  behind  him,  for  us  and  for  all 
generations  to  come,  the  explanation  of  explanations,  the  reason  for 
life  and  reason  for  human  existence.  Under  the  inspiration  of  God, 
he  told  us  whence  we  came,  what  we  are  doing  here  and  where  we  are  to 
go.  This  knowledge  is  a  glorious  heritage.  We  lived  before  this 
life;  we  were  in  the  beginning  with  our  Father,  our  God.  We  were 
begotten  by  Him,  as  President  Penrose  declared  last  Thursday.  In  tha. 
preexistent  life,  we  made  a  preparation  and  laid  a  foundation  on  which 
we  are  building  today :  we  won  our  right,  as  Elder  Talmage  said,  to 
come  forth  upon  this  earth,  to  do  our  work.  We  shall  live  hereafter — ■ 
not  a  quiet,  silent,  purposeless  life,  but  a  life  of  development  and  pro- 
gress, everlastingly  achieving,  everlastingly  growing,-;  everlastingly 
becoming  more  and  more  like  the  greatest  and  highest  of  our  ideals. 
Around  such  an  explanation  of  life  may  be  clustered  in  orderly  fashion 
all  the  events  of  existence.  It  was  such  an  explanation,  I  think,  that 
our  friend  Dr.  Baskerville  had  in  mind  when,  a  few  month  ago,  he 
spoke  the  sober  words  I  have  quoted  relative  to  the  achievements  of 
his  life. 

ALL  ACTS  MUST  HAVE  SPIRITUAL  MEANING 

I  would  like  to  leave  as  one  of  the  thoughts,  and  perhaps  the  main 
thought,  of  the  few  moments  I  have  at  my  disposal,  with  this  vast 
assemblage  of  people,  that  the  all-important  thing  in  life,  after  all,  is  to 
find  a  place  in  the  universal  scheme  of  things,  for  all  the  acts  of  our 
lives.  There  is  a  Spiritual  meaning  of  all  human  acts  and  earthly  events. 
The  Lord  has  specifically  declared  "not  at  any  time  have  I  given  unto 
you  a  law  which  was  temporal."  It  is  the  business  of  man  to  find  the 
spiritual  meaning  of  earthly  things.  I  pay  my  tithing,  for  many  reasons, 
perhaps,  but  the  one  great  reason  is  that  by  so  doing,  I  am  advancing 
this  great  cause,  this  great  purpose,  this  great  plan  to  which  I  am  com- 
mitted. I  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom  to  keep  my  body  clean  and  pure 
and  wholesome,  but  I  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom  also,  because  by  so 
doinb  I  make  myself  an  abler  colaborer  with  God  in  carrying  onward 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  W1DTS0E 


97 


this  great  work.  I  grow  sugar  beets,  not  merely  becajuse  I  want  clothing 
and  food  for  my  family,  but  because  the  cultivation  of  the  soil  and  the 
consequent  increased  prosperity  among  the  people,  adds  to  the  onward 
progress  and  nearer  fulfilment  of  the  purposes  of  Almighty  God,  of 
the  great  explanation  of  explanations,  beginning  in  tine  vast  Before 
and  ending  in  the  vast  Hereafter.  No  man  is  quite  so  happy,  I  think, 
as  he  who  backs  all  his  labors  by  such  a  spiritual  interpretation  and 
understanding  of  the  acts  of  his  life.  A  piece  of  silver  always  has  a 
certain  value  as  it  passes  from  hand  to  hand ;  it  is  weighed  and  we  sell  it 
in  the  market  place ;  but,  when  that  piece  of  silver  is  coined  into  a 
dollar,  it  receives  the  stamp  of  government  service ;  it  becomes  a  coin  of 
the  realm,  and  it  moves  from  hand  to  hand  to  accomplish  the  work  of 
the  realm.  So,  every  act  of  man,  the  moment  it  is  fitted  into  the  great 
plan,  the  plan  of  salvation,  receives  spiritual  coinage,  and  passes  from 
hand  to  hand,  from  mind  to  mind,  to  accomplish  the  great  work  of  God. 
It  is  a  great  theme  beyond  my  powers  to  develop  fully,  and  far  beyond 
the  time  at  my  disposal ;  but  I  desire  to  leave  with  you  as  my  testimony, 
the  thought  that  the  greatness  of  life  is  won  only  when  men  regulate 
and  order  the  affairs  and  acts  of  their  lives  by  an  understanding  of  the 
great  spiritual  purpose  of  man's  existence.  Those  who  do  not  so  place 
their  lives,  who  act  because  of  selfish  purposes,  independently  of  the 
great  plan,  are  as  the  purblind;  they  stand  in  the  midst  of  knowledge 
and  light,  yet  they  do  not  see.  In  times  of  material  difficulty,  like  these, 
it  is  more  important  than  ever  to  hold  to  the  spiritual  significance  of  life 
and  to  obey  the  spiritual  law. 

OUR  TEMPLES  PLACES  FOR  SPIRITUAL  INSPIRATION 

We  have  on  every  hand  in  this  Church  many  opportunities  for 
gaining  the  great  spiritual  knowledge  and  strength  with  which  we  may 
surround  and  interpret  all  the  acts  of  our  lives.  Every  principle,  every 
part  of  the  organization  of  this  Church,  lends  itself  to  the  spiritual 
strengthening  and  iup-building  of  our  lives. 

Temple  work,  for  example,  gives  a  wonderful  opportunity  for 
keeping  alive  our  spiritual  knowledge  and  strength.  We  believe  that 
those  who  die  without  the  faith,  may  be  served  by  us,  as  proxies,  in  the 
holy  temples ;  and  that  these  dead,  because  of  our  unselfish  labors,  may 
be  able  to  secure  blessings,  somewhat  similar  to  those  that  we  desire 
for  ourselves.  Thus,  by  serving  the  dead,  we  commit  ourselves  defi-1 
nitely  to  the  great  eternal  plan  of  human  salvation,  which  constitutes 
the  spiritual  basis  of  all  life.  The  past,  the  present  and  the  future  are 
united  by  our  vicarious  acts.  The  mighty  perspective  of  eternity  is 
unraveled  before  us  in  the  holy  temples ;  we  see  time  from  its  infinite 
beginning  to  its  endless  end ;  and  the  drama  of  eternal  life  is  unfolded 
before  us.  Then  I  see  more  clearly  my  place  amidst  the  things  of  the 
universe,  my  place  among  the  purposes  of  God;  I  am  better  able  to 
place  myself  where  I  belong,  and  I  am  better  able  to  value  and  to  weigh. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  separate  and  to  organize  the  common,  ordinary  duties  of  my  life,  so 
that  the  little  things  shall  not  oppress  me  or  take  away  my  vision  of 
the  greater  things  that  God  has  given  us. 

TEMPLE  WORK  A  SIGN  OF  THE  LAST  DAYS 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  belong  to  the  last  days,  in  this  last 
great  dispensation,  which  has  unfolded  the  great  explanations  of  life.  God 
has  said  that  this  people  is  to  prepare  for  the  last  days.  The  last  days 
will  come ;  there  will  be  a  time  when  this  work  shall  be  accomplished, 
and  a  new  work  undertaken.  One  of  the  great  purposes  of  this  Church 
is  to  prepare  for  the  last  days.  There  shall  be  signs  of  the  last  days ; 
there  shall  be  things  that  will  tell  us  when  the  last  days  are  about  to 
occur  and  when  they  are  here.  May  I  say  to  you  that  we  need  not  go 
far  away  to  look  for  these  signs ;  they  are  about  us.  I  know  of  no  more 
convincing  sign  of  the  approaching  end  than  the  work  now  being  done 
in  our  temples.  I  heard  Elder  George  F.  Richards,  president  of  the 
Salt  Lake  Temple,  say,  a  short  time  ago,  that  five  or  six  times  as 
many  endowments  are  now  being  done  daily  in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple 
as  were  done  a  few  years  ago.  This  is  a  sign  of  the  last  days.  When 
the  hearts  of  the  fathers  and  the  hearts  of  the  children,  living  and  dead, 
are  tied  together  in  love,  and  in  recognition  of  God's  great  purposes 
for  the  human  family,  then  the  Lord  has  found  a  people  which  may 
prepare  properly  for  the  last  great  coming  of  the  Savior  and  the 
purification  of  all  things,  and  the  re-establishment  of  the  true  kingdom 
of  God. 

God  bless  us,  that  in  all  we  do,  in  our  labors  in  the  home  and  the 
field,  or  wherever  we  may  be,  we  may  understand  the  spiritual  mean- 
ing and  value  of  the  things  we  do ;  that  we  may  go  through  life  with 
seeing  eyes,  finding  light  even  in  the  darkness  of  earth,  I  ask  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "O  say,  what  is  Truth  ?" 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

I  have  recently  returned  from  attending  the  National  Council 
of  the  Boy  Scouts  of  America,  held  in  the  city  of  Chicago,  on  the 
29th  and  30th  of  March.  As  our  Church  is  very  much  interested  in 
the  Boy  Scout  movement,  I  have  thought  that  perhaps  the  best 
contribution  I  could  make  to  our  conference,  would  be  to  report  some 
things  connnected  with  the  National  Council  proceedings. 

It  so  happened  that  the  Sunday  before  going  east  to  attend  this 
conference,  I  delivered,  in  this  Tabernacle,  a  discourse  on  the  subjects 
that  have  been  dwelt  upon,  more  or  less,  by  the  speakers  in  this  con- 
ference; namely,  the  wave  of  lawlessness  which  seems  to  be  sweep- 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


99 


ing  over  our  land.  It  was,  therefore,  somewhat  refreshing,  to  get 
connected  up  with  a  movement,  and  obtain  a  vision  of  the  other  side 
of  the  picture  that  represents  our  country — the  good  side.  If  we  at- 
tend solely  to  observation  and  the  summing  up  of  evil  alone,  we  are 
very  apt  to  get  a  mis-vision  of  things.  Truth  is  knowledge  of  things 
as  they  are — not  as  they  are  in  wrong  vision  of  them,  but  as  they 
are  in  reality.  And  so,  attendance  upon  this  National  Council  of 
the  Boy  Scouts  of  America  gave  me  an  opportunity  to  get  a  vision 
of  some  of  those  progressive  things  that  are  being  done  in  our  land, 
that  make  for  good  citizenship,  for  moral  worth,  for  spiritual  uplift, 
and  I  feel  very  grateful  for  that  view  of  the  things  which  came  to 
me  by  reason  of  my  connection  with  this  national  council. 

There  were  in  attendance  at  this  council  about  two  hundred  men, 
representing  the  finest  citizenship  of  our  land,  men  interested  in 
the  future  welfare  of  our  country.  They  came  from  New  England, 
from  the  Atlantic  Coast  states,  and  from  the  Gulf  coast  states,  and 
from  the  great  Middlewest.  They  were  a  fine  representative  body  of 
American  men  interested  in  more  than  eight  millions  of  the  youth 
of  our  land  within  the  Scout  age,  the  age  from  12  tO'  18, 

It  was  reported  by  those  having  this  work  in  hand,  that  we  had 
enlisted  in  this  great  cause  of  citizen  development  of  our  youth,  about 
530,000  men  and  boys,  403,000  of  them  being  enrolled  scouts.  Plans 
were  adopted  by  the  National  Council,  looking  to  the  complete  oc- 
cupancy of  the  whole  territory  of  our  country,  by  which  all  the  youth 
of  our  land  would  be  brought  within  the  territorial  organization  of 
this  great  movement.  It  was  recognized  that  what  had  been  done 
was  but  little  in  comparison  with  what  remains  to  be  done.  It  is  im- 
portant, of  course,  that  more  than  five  hundred  thousand  men  and 
boys  are  enlisted  in  this  cause,  but  it  is  of  still  greater  importance 
that  plans  should  be  adopted  for  reaching  the  eight  millions  of  lads 
within  the  scout  age  and  not  yet  enrolled  in  scouting.  This  body  of 
men  from  all  parts  of  the  country  were  made  up  from  among  the 
leading  citizens  of  the  various  districts  they  represented.  And  not 
only  did  they  represent  the  organizations  directly  interested  in  this 
movement,  but  also  those  organizations  which  indirectly  are  inter- 
esting themselves  in  it,  and  giving  it  financial  and  moral  support. 
There  was  spoken  of  there  the  business  men's  organizations  through- 
out the  land,  that  are  interesting  themselves  in  this  movement;  the 
Kiwanis  clubs  were  mentioned;  and  the  Rotary  clubs,  and  "The 
Lions,"  an  organization  of  business  men's  societies — all  these  were 
represented  as  playing  the  part  of  the  "big  brother"  to  the  Boy  Scout 
movement,  in  many  localities.  The  financial  aid  and  moral  support 
that  these  business  men's  organizations  are  giving  to  the  Boy  Scout 
movement  convince  me  that  the  reputation  America  has  for  being 
materialistic  in  spirit,  and  selfishly  money-mad,  isn't  altogether  true, 
since  so  many  organizations  of  business  men  are  interesting  themselves 
in  a  movement  that  is  so  purely  unselfish,  and  that  has  for  its  pur- 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


! 

pose  the  moral  uplift  of  the  present  boyhood  of  America,  in  order 
to  provide  for  the  future  good  citizenship  of  our  country. 

America,  notwithstanding  the  present  reign  of  lawlessness,  which 
we  all  deplore,  is  not  all  bad.  There  is  a  great  volume  of  good  in  it, 
and  those  prophecies  of  evil  that  we  have  in  the  scriptures  that  have 
been  given  to  our  Church  respecting  our  country — the  United  States 
— while  they  sound  a  note  of  warning  against  lawlessness  and  the 
evil  conditions  that  now  obtain,  yet  they  also  carry  with  them  an  al- 
ternative, to  the  effect  that  if  the  people  of  our  country  will  repent 
and  respect  the  conditions  of  righteousness,  which  God  requires  of 
any  people  that  inhabit  this  God-blessed  land  of  America,  then  He  will 
not  destroy  them,  but  will  secure  them,  in  the  enjoyment  of  their 
rights  and  of  their  liberties.  His  blessings  will  attend  them,  and 
they  will  become  a  mighty  instrument  in  His  hands  for  good ;  and 
He  will  couple  their  destiny  with  the  destiny  of  modern  Israel,  until 
the  Zion  of  God  shall  be  founded  upon  this  land  which  is  "choice 
above  all  other  lands."  I  have  been  thinking  of  late  that  if  I  were  a 
younger  man,  I  would  be  disposed  to  consecrate  all  the  years  of  my 
life  in  sounding  that  warning  to  our  American  people,  to  outline 
for  them,  as  God  has  outlined  it  in  our  scriptures,  the  glory,  and 
honor,  and  power,  and  influence,  and  world-leadership  that  God  is 
willing  to  confer  upon  this  mighty  people  of  America,  and  upon  their 
government  that  He  has  brought  forth  through  the  inspiration  of  His 
Spirit,  upon  the  minds  of  the  fathers  of  the  republic,  who  laid  deep 
and  well  the  foundations  of  human  liberty  by  creating  and  adopting 
the  constitution  of  our  country.  I  would  be  willing  to  devote  my  life 
to  that,  I  say,  to  the  saving  of  the  manhood  and  womanhood  of  Amer- 
ica ;  and  get  that  manhood  and  womanhood  consecrated  to  the  accom- 
plishment of  God's  high  purposes  with  reference  to  our  land. 

What  I  now  want  to  do,  however,  and  more  especially,  is  to 
awaken  your  interest  in  this  Boy  Scout  movement.  You  do  not 
know  how  proud  I  was  to  have  it  said  that  our  state  of  Utah  held 
the  record  for  the  highest  percentage  of  enrollment  of  Boy  Scouts  of 
America ;  that  in  this  state  we  had  registered  one  in  ten ;  whereas,  in 
other  states  the  nearest  number  approaching  that  is  about  one  in 
thirteen.  This  gives  evidence  of  larger  interest  in  boy  scouting  in 
Utah  than  elsewhere. 

Now,  what  I  want  to  do  in  these  few  minutes  in  which  I  am  to 
address  you  is  to  awaken  a  universal  interest  in  this  Boy  Scout 
movement.  We  have  gathered  here  in  this  meeting,  representatives 
from  all  sections  of  the  territory  occupied  by  the  Church  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  not  alone  from  Utah,  but  from  surrounding  states. 
I  would  like,  if  I  could  do  so,  to  send  you  all  home  enthusiastic  in 
this  cause.  I  would  be  delighted  if  all  our  bishops  could  go  from  here 
determined  to  give  full  recognition  and  encouragement  to  this  move- 
ment, until  what  has  become  a  mission  with  the  General  Board  of 
Y.  M.  M.  I.  A.,  which,  as  you  know,  is  assuming  the  role  of  "Big 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


101 


Brother"  to  boy  scouting;  I  would  like  to  have  you  officers  of  the 
Church,  everywhere,  give  welcome  to  the  promotion  of  this  organi- 
zation, and  I  am  sure  that  you  will  be  inclined  to  do  that  if  only  once 
the  great  purpose  to  be  achieved  through  this  organization  is  carried 
home  to  your  hearts.  To  accomplish  that  desire  I  am  going  to  repeat 
to  you,  but  only  in  "head-lines,"  the  purposes  of  this  great  organi- 
zation, to  which  our  Church  has  given  official  recognition  and  en- 
couragement ;  and  which  our  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  As- 
sociation has  taken  under  its  wing,  for  the  purpose  of  helping  it  de- 
velop and  achieve  its  highest  purposes.  "The  Scout  Promise" — 
sometimes  called,  "The  Scout  Oath,"  is: 

1.  On  my  honor  I  will  do  my  best  to  do  my  duty  to  God,  and 
my  country,  and  to  obey  the  scout  law. 

2.  To  help  other  people  at  all  times. 

3.  To  keep  myself  physically  strong,  mentally  awake,  and  mor- 
ally straight. 

What  a  foundation  is  here !  All  that  these  apostles,  with  the 
spirit  of  their  apostleship  upon  them,  have  urged  and  asked  for  with 
reference  to  our  labors  among  our  youth,  is  pretty  well  covered  by 
this  solemn  promise  that  the  boy  gives  upon  entering  into  scouting. 

The  further  aim  of  scouting  is  set  forth  in  the  scout  law,  which 
requires  that  the  scout  shall  be  trustworthy,  that  he  will  be  loyal, 
that  he  will  be  helpful,  that  he  will  be  friendly,  that  he  will  be  cour- 
teous, that  he  will  be  kind,  that  he  will  be  obedient,  that  he  will  be 
cheerful,  that  he  will  be  thrifty,  that  he  will  be  brave,  that  he  will  be 
clean,  that  he  will  be  reverent.  What  more  could  be  required  of 
boydom  than  that? 

Fathers  and  mothers  in  Israel ;  presidents  of  stakes,  and  high 
councilors ;  bishops  of  wards,  Church  officers  of  all  grades,  who  have 
to  do  with  boy  life,  what  a  fine  program  is  here,  and  what  co-opera- 
tion and  help  you  will  get  to  the  main  effort  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  from  this  organization,  engaged  in -lay- 
ing these  foundation  stones  in  the  life  and  character  of  boys! 

Can  this  program  be  improved  upon?  Yes,  I  think  it  can  be  a 
little  improved  upon.  A  rather  interesting  and  amusing  incident 
happened  at  the  banquet  that  was  given  in  honor  of  this  National 
Council,  gathered  in  Chicago.  Father  Cavanaugh,  of  the  Catholic 
Church,  who  was  called  upon  to  deliver  an  address  at  the  banquet, 
given  in  honor  of  the  National  Council,  cautioned  the  representa- 
tives not  to  regard  scouting  as  religion.  While  Rabbi  Emil  G.  Hirsch, 
of  Chicago,  who  was  also  among  the  speakers,  very  boldly  proclaimed 
that  since  so  much  of  scouting  had  to  do  with  helpfulness  to  others, 
it  was  good  religion.  Mr.  J.  H.  Beveridge,  Superintendent 
of  Schools  of  Omaha,  and  President  of  the  National  Education  As- 
sociation, held  that  the  movement  was  chiefly  educational.  While 
another  speaker,  Mr.  H.  H.  Merrick,  I  think,  representing  the  Exec- 
utive Committee  of  Chicago,  stated  that  he  was  glad  to  hear  all 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  had  been  said  by  the  other  speakers  in  relation  to  scouting,  but 
held  that  it  was  an  American  movement — a  movement  for  good 
American  citizenship.  And  so  these  parties  differed,  very  greatly, 
but  each  one  contributed  a  thought  worth  while,  for  scouting. 

But  now,  as  to  improving  upon  the  scouting  program.  When 
Brigham  Young  instituted  the  Y.  M.  M.  I.  Association  he  said : 

"Let  the  keynote  of  your  work  be  the  establishment  in  the  youth  of 
individual  testimony  of  the  truth  and  magnitude  of  the  great  latter-day  work; 

the  development  of  the  gifts  within  them,  that  have  been  bestowed  upon  them 
by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands  of  the  servants  of  God;  cultivating  a  knowledge 
and  an  application  of  the  eternal  principles  of  the  great  science  of  life.  It  is 
our  desire  that  our  young  men  may  grow  in  the  comprehension  of  and  faith 
in  the  holy  principles  of  the  gospel  of  eternal  salvation,  and  furthermore,  have 
an  opportunity  to  testify,  and  be  encouraged  in  bearing  testimony  and  speak- 
ing of  the  truths  of  our  holy  religion." 

The  superintendency  of  our  Mutual  Improvement  Associations, 
while  President  Ivins  was  our  superintendent,  declared,  through  the 
Improvement  Era,  that  coupling  this  spiritual,  religious  element 
voiced  by  President  Young,  with  the  Boy  Scout  movement,  gave  the 
finest  program  for  boy  control  and  guidance,  and  work,  that  it  was 
possible  to  conceive.  It  adds  the  one  other  important  element  to  such 
a  work;  the  element  that  Dr.  Widtsoe  spoke  of  a  moment  since,  that 
mysterious,  almost  indefinable,  spiritual  ingrejdient  anjd  power,  es- 
sential to  the  success  of  things  human — it  makes  it  then  a  genuinely 
religious  movement,  as  well  as  an  educational,  a  moral,  and  a  physical 
betterment  movement.  Well,  add  that  religious  element  to  the  Boy 
Scout  program,  and  you  have,  as  a  means  of  guidance  for  the  citizen- 
ship of  tomorrow,  in  these  United  States,  the  best  possible  program. 
And  so,  I  commend  this  movement  to  you,  elders  in  Israel;  bid 
it  welcome  into  your  several  communities,  and  grant  to  it  your  moral 
and  whole  hearted  support,  so  that  we  may  extend  scouting  until 
every  Improvement  Association  shall  have  its  Boy  Scout  organization. 

Just  these  words  in  conclusion.  In  this  thing  we  cannot  as  suc- 
cessfully walk  alone  as  we  can  by  keeping  step  with  the  national  or- 
ganization. I  learned  a  new  idea  at  this  National  Council,  to  which 
I  have  been  giving  much  thought  since,  namely,  a  man  or  a  com- 
munity who  comes  to  regard  himself  as  all-sufficient,  turns  out  gener- 
ally to  be,  and  it  is  the  observation  of  experience,  turns  out  to  be  in- 
efficient. We  cannot  be  all-sufficient  in  ourselves  in  such  a  work  as 
guidance  of  our  youth — such  a  work  as  scouting.  Wa  need  the  national 
organization.  We  need  it  for  the  classification  of  scouts,  from  tender- 
foot to  the  eagle  scout.  We  need  its  courts  of  honor ;  we  need  its  system 
of  merits  and  rewards ;  we  need  the  "national  pull"  that  is  found  in 
these  things.  We  need  the  recognition  that  the  national  organization  is 
willing  to  give  us.  We  can  not,  of  course  we  would  not  desire,  to  pla- 
giarize all  this  organization,  and  the  splendid  things  that  have  been  de- 
veloped by  it.  Yet  you  cannot  devise  another  boy  program  without 
plagiarizing  it — it  covers  the  field  so  completely — and  that  being  true, 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


103 


there  is  nothing  for  us  to  do  but  to  join  in  the  great  national  march  of 
the  boyhood  of  our  land,  toward  the  goal  of  the  highest  citizenship. 
Therefore,  let  us  recognize  in  boy  scouting  a  point  of  contact  with 
our  fellow  citizens  of  the  United  States  that  is  of  great  advantage  to 
us,  and  through  which  we  also,  perhaps,  can  contribute  something  to 
the  great  national  movement.  Be  friendly,  therefore,  my  brethren  in 
your  attitude  towards  this  great  organization,  I  pray  you  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

A  DELEGATION  FROM  JAPAN 

I  am  reminded,  by  a  little  note  from  Elder  Junius  F.  Wells,  that 
fifty  years  ago,  February,  1872,  a  large  delegation  from  Japan,  headed 
by  Prince  Sionii  Tomomi  Iwakura,  Marquis  Ito,  and  other  eminent 
Japanese  officials,  were  snow-bound  in  our  great  city.  We  have  here 
today  a  delegation  from  Japan,  and  we  welcome  them  with  another 
snow  storm,  which  is  rather  unusual.  The  above  embassy  was  de- 
tained here  for  about  three  weeks.  The  Territorial  Legislature  was  in 
session  at  the  time  and  they  were  extended  many  courtesies  by  the 
Mayor,  City  Council,  the  Territorial  and  military  officials,  and  they 
visited  this  tabernacle  and  heard  the  great  organ  played  upon  by  El- 
der Ridges,  its  builder.  '  Here  they  had  their  first  glimpse  of  the 
pioneer  work  accomplished  by  the  people  of  Utah,  and  the  great  West 
in  twenty-five  years.  They  obtained  statistics  regarding  the  develop- 
ment and  colonization  of  our  beloved  country,  and  studied  its  gov- 
ernment in  our  city.  It  fell  to  my  lot  to  have  the  honor  of  being 
called  upon  a  mission  to  Japan  and  open  the  way  there  for  the  spread 
of  the  gospel,  as  believed  in  by  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  am  very 
glad,  indeed,  upon  this  occasion,  to  welcome  some  of  my  friends  from 
Japan. 

We  also  have  with  us  today,  as  visitors,  several  members  of  the 
General  Staff  of  the  American  Army. 

The  choir  sang  the  finale  of  the  Oratorio,  "The  Restoration," 
under  the  direction  of  its  composer,  Elder  Brigham  Cecil  Gates. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  James  H.  Robinson,  Presi- 
dent of  the  South  Davis  stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

FIRST  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

An  overflow  meeting  of  the  Conference  was  held  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall  at  10  o'clock,  Sunday  morning,  April  9,  1922. 

Elder  Charles  A.  Callis,  president  of  the  Southern  States  mission, 
presided. 

The  music  and  singing  were  furnished  by  the  Richards  and  Water- 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


loo  combined  choirs,  Granite  stake  of  Zion,  and  by  a  string  quintette, 
Lon  Fisher  and  Arthur  McFarland,  conductors.  Members  of  the 
quintette  are;  Thorwald  Jorgensen,  W.  N.  Morris,  Murray  Snow,  A. 
H.  Kirschner,  and  Oge  Jorgensen.  Professor  E.  P.  Kimball,  or- 
ganist. 

The  combined  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "The  Lord  of  Heaven," 
solo  parts  by  Mrs.  Minnie  Eckard  and  Mrs.  Nettie  Swortwood. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Hyrum  L.  Nelson. 

The  combined  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Heavenly  Father,"  so'o 
parts  by  Joseph  Kjar,  Ruby  Childs,  and  Agnes  M.  Bolto. 

ELDER  JAMES  W.  FUNK 

(President  of  the  Benson  Stake  of  Zion.) 

My  brethren  and  Sisters,  I  have  rejoiced  in  the  proceedings  of 
this  conference  thus  far,  and  after  the  next  few  moments,  I  am  sure 
I  shall  rejoice  in  the  remainder  of  the  proceedings.  In  the  midst  of 
my  surprise  at  being  called  upon,  and  in  the  fact  that  I  had  never 
thought  that  it  should  fall  to  my  lot  to  be  called  upon,  I  trust  that 
you  will  bear  with  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  that  the  testimony 
which  I  may  express  may  find  a  response  in  your  hearts,  and  that 
we  may  have  occasion  to  rejoice  together,  feeling  that  God  is  blessing 
us  as  He  has  blessed  us  in  the  past,  in  the  worthy  work  in  which  we 
are  engaged.  We  are  truly  grateful  for  the  opportunities  we  have  of 
drawing  near  unto  the  Lord  through  our  service  in  His  cause,  because 
He  said,  that  if  we  will  draw  near  unto  Him  He  will  draw  near 
unto  us.  And  I  am  sure  the  experience  of  every  Latter-day  Saint 
will  confirm  that  statement  of  the  Lord,  that  every  Latter-day  Saint 
who  is  in  His  service  are,  in  their  humility,  drawn  near  unto  Him.  It 
is  inevitable  that,  under  such  circumstances,  the  Lord  will  draw  near 
unto  us.  It  is  the  only  way  of  approach  to  the  Lord  and  to  receive 
the  blessings  of  His  Spirit,  which  brings  consolation  and  peace  and 
happiness.  For,  after  all,  I  think  little  genuine  happiness  comes  to  us 
and  permanently  remains  with  us,  except  that  it  be  through  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord,  and  that  sweet  influence  that  comes  with  association  with 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  No  other  organization,  perhaps,  in  the  world 
affords  to  its  members  opportunity  for  individual  effort,  and  the  priv- 
ilege of  drawing  near  unto  the  Lord  by  service,  as  does  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Every  member  of  the  Church 
has  an  opportunity  to  show  faith  in  the  principles  of  the  gospel  which 
they  have  espoused,  to  show  forth  faith  in  God  and  in  His  goodness 
and  mercy,  by  their  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel. 
Not  only  that,  but  he  has  opportunity  to  show  faith  in  his  willingness 
to  lend  a  helping  hand  to  his  fellow  man,  and  in  his  desire  to  be  of 
service  in  this  great  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times.  I  am  sure 
that  those  who  have  had  experience  in  the  work  of  the  Lord  will 


ELDER  JAMES  W.  FUNK 


105 


bear  testimony  to  this  fact,  that  it  is  a  wonderful  work  and  that 
wonderful  blessings  follow  those  who  put  their  heart  into  it. 

I  come  from  Benson  stake,  as  was  announced ;  and  perhaps  some 
of  you  are  inquiring  where  the  Benson  stake  is.  It  is  not  a  new  stake, 
having  been  taken  from  a  part  of  the  Cache  stake,  in  the  year  1901, 
if  I  remember  correctly  the  year.  It  is  composed  of  the  northern 
part  of  Cache  county,  and  was  named  in  honor  of  Elder  Ezra  T.  Ben- 
son of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  at  one  time,  and  who  resided  in 
Logan,  in  the  Cache  stake,  from  which  Benson  stake  was  taken. 
Cache  stake  was  divided  into  four  stakes.  The  work  is  growing  there, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  it  is  growing  in  other  parts  of  the  vineyard 
of  the  Lord.  This  is  a  day  of  financial  distress,  which  some  of  us  are 
inclined  to  call  hard  times  and  in  fact  they  are  hard  times.  I  some- 
times believe,  however,  that  hard  times  are  more  a  matter  of  mental 
attitude  than  of  actual  conditions. 

It  is  hard  times  because  in  times  of  plenty,  and  a  particularly 
easy  money  market,  some  of  us  indulged  in  the  things  that  we  would 
like  to  avoid,  and  which  we  thought,  by  reason  of  our  prospects,  we 
were  entitled  to;  hard  times  because,  in  great  measure  we  ignored 
the  counsels  that  were  given  us,  from  time  to  time,  by  those  who'  had 
been  called  to  preside  over  us.  In  the  face  of  these  conditions,  I  feel 
that  the  people  of  the  Church  have  drawn  nearer  unto  the  Lord  than 
they  have  done  in  many  years  past,  and  sometimes  I  have  rejocied 
that  conditions  have  so  shaped  themseves  that  we  are  inclined  to1  turn 
toward  the  Lord,  and  that  we  are  more  inclined  to  turn  toward  re- 
ligion, and  to  be  more  neighborly,  and  more  sympathetic  to  our1 
brethren  and  sisters  than  we  have  been  before. 

As  a  result  of  the  conditions  that  I  have  mentioned,  I  feel  that 
the  Latter-day  Saints  are  drawing  nearer  to  the  Lord  today  than 
they  have  drawp  before  in  years  past;  and  the  Lord  is  making  good 
His  promise  to  draw  near  unto  the  people. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  know  that  we  are  engaged  in  the 
work  of  the  Lord;  that  this  gospel  which  has  been  restored  to  the 
earth  in  these  the  last  days  is  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation  to  those 
who  believe  and  do;  that  the  line  of  succession  from  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  to  the  Prophet  and  President,  Heber  J.  Grant,  has  been 
unbroken;  that  the  truth  which  was  established  in  the  earth  with  the 
restoration  of  the  gospel  remains  upon  the  earth;  that  those  who  pre- 
side over  the  Church  have  that  same  authority  that  was  conferred 
upon  Joseph  Smith;  and  that  we  as  a  people  will  be  saved  and 
exalted  just  in  proportion  to  our  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances 
of  the  gospel  as  promulgated  from  time  to  time  by  the  mouthpiece  of 
God  upon  the  earth,  and  his  associates. 

May  God  bless  us  as  Latter-day  Saints,  and  the  people  of  the 
world  generally.  May  He  draw,  us  near  unto  Him  at  all  times,  is  my 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

(President  of  the  Lethbridge  Stake  of  Zion.) 

I  have  been  shivering  ever  since  I  left  Canada,  and  I  will  be  glad 
to  get  back  there,  where  I  can  get  warm  again.  I  have  shivered  more 
since  I  came  into  this  building  than  before. 

The  Lethbridge  stake,  brethren  and  sisters,  comprises  the  whole 
of  the  north  end  of  the  world  (laughter.)  The  southern  boundary  of 
the  Lethbridge  stake  is  fifteen  miles  north  of  the  international  bound- 
ary line,  between  Canada  and  the  United  States.  I  think  the  northern 
boundary  of  our  stake  is,  perhaps,  the  southern  boundary  of  South 
America.  We  have  a  very  large  stake,  geographically  speaking ;  and  I 
believe,  if  we  were  able  to  discover  all  of  our  people  there,  we  would 
have  the  largest  stake  in  the  Church,  numerically  speaking,  because 
I  believe  we  have  in  our  stake  the  Ten  Tribes.  They  are  up  there 
somewhere,  although  we  haven't  found  them  yet.  I  received  a  letter 
the  other  day  from  some  member  of  the  Church,  asking  me  to  go  up 
into  the  Peace  river  country,  and  organize  a  branch  there.  That  is 
about  600  miles  north  of  Lethbridge,  and  Lethbridge  is  about  700 
miles  north  of  Salt  Lake  City.  We  have  nine  wards  and  eleven 
branches  in  the  new  stake  (Lethbridge),  and  we  have  some  splendid 
people. 

I  rejoice  in  this  great  work.  I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  opportunity 
of  working  in  this  cause.  I  have  come  to/  realize,  in  the  last  few  years, 
that  men  sometimes  place  high  values  on  things  that  are  not  really 
worth  while.    Sometimes  we  are  found  chasing  bubbles. 

If  you  will  pardon  me,  I  will  refer  to  a  personal  experience  that 
I  had  during  the  late  war.  It  appealed  to  me  more  than  anything 
else  I  ever  had  in  my  life — some  things  that  are  really  worth  while. 
I  had  taken  a  few  years  in  school,  in  Canada,  preparing  for  military 
work,  at  the  request  of  the  president  of  the  stake ;  and  at  the  outbreak 
of  the  war  I  held  a  commission  in  the  Canadian  army,  and  it  became 
my  duty  to  put  on  a  uniform,  and  go  and  do  what  little  I  could  dur- 
ing the  war.  And  I  had  the  opportunity  of  serving,  in  a  weak  way,  for 
a  little  over  three  years,  and  during  that  time  I  had  the  opportunity 
of  preaching  the  gospel  of  Christ  more  than  I  had  during  my  mission- 
ary experience  in  England,  some  seventeen  years  ago.  And  while  I  was 
in  uniform,  I  had  the  oportunity  of  extending  a  helping  hand  to  some 
of  our  boys.  Quite  a  number  of  Latter-dav  Saint  boys  went  from  south- 
ern Lethbridge,  from  our  stake  there,  and  some  of  them  did  not  return. 
And  upon  several  occasions,  while  I  was  in  England  and  France,  ap- 
peals came  to  me  from  some  of  the  boys  who  had  been  wounded  who 
were  sick  in  the  hospital,  asking  me  to  intercede  for  them  with  officers 
higher  up  to  make  an  appeal,  if  need  be,  to  His  Majesty,  the  King, 
asking  that  they  might  be  returned  home  while  they  were  convales- 
cing ;  asking,  perhaps,  that  they  might  have  leave  of  absence.    And  on 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


107 


several  occasions  it  was  my  privilege  to  intercede  for  the  boys  and  to 
get  favors  for  them.  When  in  London,  one  morning,  I  received  a 
message  that  some  boy  wanted  to  see  me  in  the  hospital ;  and  imme- 
diately I  thought,  here  is  another  boy  who  would  like  to  return  to  his 
mother,  who  perhaps  is  asking  me  to  intercede  for  him  with  the  pow- 
ers higher  up,  by  reason  of  the  authority  that  I  held  as  an  officer  in 
the  army.  And  as  I  went  in  response  to  that  call  to  the  hospital  re- 
ferred to,  I  believed  that  I  felt  just  a  little  pride  in  my  heart  because 
I  had  the  honor  of  wearing  the  uniform ;  and  as  I  went  down  to 
that  hospital  I  believe  that  my  head  was  working,  feeling  that  I  was 
going  in  to  do  a  favor  to  one  of  my  brethren,  by  virtue  of  the  fact 
that  I  held  the  right  to  ask  for  a  favor,  perhaps,  for  him  from  the 
king.  With  this  feeling  I  went  into  the  hospital,  and -as  I  was  ushered 
into  the  little  ward  where  that  boy  was  sick,  with  a  feeble  hand  he 
reached  out  and  said,  Brother  Brown,  I  sent  for  you  to  come  and  ad- 
minister to  me ;  I'm  afraid  I'm  going  to  die,  and  I  want  you  to  ask  God 
to  spare  my  life  that  I  can  return  home  to  my  mother.  Upon,  that  occa- 
sion it  seemed  to  me  my  uniform  fell  from  me.  All  the  pride  that  I  had 
felt  in  standing  in  that  uniform  of  the  king  vanished.  And  at  that 
moment  I  was  made  to  realize,  that  there  is  an  authority,  there  is  a 
power  inestimably  greater  than  any  authority  or  power  that  can  be 
given  by  man.  And  as  I  laid  my  hands  upon  the  head  of  that  boy, 
I  interceded  for  him,  not,  with  the  king  of  England,  not  with  any  man, 
and  not  by  virtue  of  my  authority  as  an  officer  in  that  army.  But 
as  I  laid  my  hands  upon  his  head,  I  said,  "In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and  by  authority  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  came  to  realize  that  the  most  valuable 
thing  in  this  world  is  the  Priesthood  of  God,  the  right  tot  speak  and  to 
act  in  the  name  of  God.  And  as  I  stood  there,  as  it  were  clasping 
hands  with  that  boy  and  his  Maker,  by  virtue  of  the  Priesthood  that  had 
been  given  unto  me,  I  forgot  any  honor  that  had  come  to  me  in  tht 
army.  And  as  I  knelt  at  his  bedside,  my  prayer  to  God  was,  that 
never  again  in  my  life  would  I  be  found  seeking  the  honors  of  men, 
that  I  would  remember  that  the  things  that  are  really  worth  while  in 
this  life  come  to  us  through  the  gospel  of  Jesu3  Christ. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  that  experience,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 
I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know  that  this  work  is  true.  That 
time,  after  a  vear  "over  there,"  when  I  came  and  endeavored  to  raise 
my  voice  in  defense  of  this  work,  I  had  the  joy,  the  satisfaction,  the 
consolation  of  testifying  to  the  men  of  the  world,  that  here  in  the 
west  there  were  a  people  who  were  living  clean  lives,  who  were  obey- 
ing the  commandments  of  God. 

I  thank  the  Lord  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  for  the  work  and' 
the  life  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  testi- 
mony that  I  have  as  to  the  mission  of  Brigham  Younp".  the  mission  of 
Lorenzo  Snow,  of  John  Taylor,  of  Wilford  Woodruff,  of  Joseph  F'. 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Smith ;  and  I  thank  the  Lord,  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart,  for  the 
mission  and  the  life  of  Heber  J.  Grant  today.  I  don't  want  to  be 
classed  among  the  poeple  of  whom  it  was  said,  "You  build  altars  to 
dead  prophets,  and  you  hate  the  living."  I  honor  today  men  whom 
God  has  called.  I  pray  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  sustain  and  sup- 
port these  men,  for  they  are  ordained  of  God. 

I  hope  w,e  look  upon  men  from  a  deeper  experience,  and  judge 
them  by  that.  God  looketh  upon  the  heart.  He  looks  into  the  hearts 
of  these  men,  and  he  has  honored  them,  and  called  them  to  lead  this 
people.  The  Lord  makes  no  mistakes.  Let  us  support  these  men; 
let  us  rally  round  them ;  let  us  let  them  know  that  we  support  them. 
And  let  us  not  be  found  questioning  the  wisdom  of  God  in  any  choice 
that  He  makes.  Remember  what  He  said  to  Samuel,  when  he  went 
down  to  anoint  a  king  of  Israel.  When  the  oldest  son  of  Jesse  came 
up,  he  said:  Why,  this  is  the  man;  look  at  him;  just  a  fine  looking 
fellow,  he  should  be  king.  But  the  Lord,  said  Samuel,  did  not  look 
upon  the  outward  appearance ;  God  looketh  upon  the  heart.  Brethren 
and  sisters,  let  us  remember,  let  us  try  to  do  that.  But  remember  that 
God  alone  possesses  the  perfect  power  to  look  into  the  hearts  of 
men ;  and  He  has  chosen  these  men.  May  we  never  be  found  chasing 
bubbles.  May  we  get  the  real  value  fixed  in  reference  to  these  men. 
Let  us  go  for  those  things  that  are  really  worth  while  in  life. 

Let  us  pray  God  for  the  spirit  of  humility  and  meekness.  Let 
us  keep  clean,  doing  the  right  as  God  has  given  us  light  to  see  it,  and 
to  do  your  duty.  Let  us  have  the  courage  of  our  conviction.  This 
work  is  strong,  and  it  will  continue  to  grow.  It  must  go  on.  The  good 
ship  Zion  has  set  sail,  and  if  any  man  wishes  to  jump  overboard,  he 
must  take  the  consequence.  The  good  ship  will  go  on.  God  help 
us  to  remember  that,  and  to  be  true  to  our  covenants,  true  to  the 
trust  that  has  been  given  to  us,  and  always  found  in  the  line  of  duty, 
so  that  when  the  call  comes,  as  it  came  to  me  on  that  occasion — the 
call  to  duty,  we  will  be  worthy  and  ready  to  respond.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEWIS  R.  ANDERSON 

(President  of  the  North  Sanpete  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  if  I  did  not  have  a  testimony  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  I  do  not  think  that  I  would  have  the  courage 
to  face  this  audience  at  this  time.  But  I  feel  I  know  that  I  am  in  the 
house  of  my  friends,  associated  with  my  brethren  and  sisters  in  this 
great  work  in  which  we  are  engaged,  and  that  their  love  and  faith 
and  sympathy  go  out  to  one  who  is  placed  in  this  responsible  position. 
I  had  not  dreamed  of  being  called  to  address  you  here  today.  But 
I  have  learned  in  my  experience  in  the  work  of  the  Lord  to  go  where 
I  am  sent,  and  I  would  rather  be  where  I  am  at  this  time  than  any 
place  on  earth,  because  I  have  been  called  to  be  here. 


ELDER  LEWIS  R.  ANDERSON 


109 


I  remember,  more  than  twenty  years  ago,  I  received  a  letter  of 
inquiry,  asking"  if  I  would  accept  a  mission.  It  came  from  President 
Wilford  Woodruff,  and  after  I  had  answered  that  I  would  be  pleased 
to  accept  a  mission,  if  I  was  thought  worthy  of  it,  I  remember  that 
I  hoped  that  when  the  call  came  it  would  not  be  to  the  Southern  States. 
I  had  considerable  prejudice  in  my  heart  against  the  people  of  those 
states,  because  so  many  of  our  elders  had  been  mobbed  and  mistreated 
in  that  section.  And  so  I  hoped  in  my  heart  that  I  would  be  sent  to 
some  other  part  of  the  world.  But  when  my  call  came,  it  read  to  the 
Southern  States  mission.  And  when  I  got  to  the  headquarters  of  that 
mission,  I  was  assigned  to  the  middle  Tennessee  conference,  and  I  ex- 
pected then  that  I  would  next  be  assigned  to  labor  in  Lewis  county, 
Tenn.,  where  our  brethren,  Gibbs  and  Berry,  as  you  remember,  were 
killed.  But  I  came  to  know  the  Southern  people  and  to  appreciate 
their  worth,  to  love  the  people  with  whom  I  had  been  called  to  work. 
And,  like  all  missionaries  who  enjoy  their  mission  and  get  the  spirit 
of  their  office  and  calling,  I  felt  that  I  would  rather  be  working  in 
the  Southern  States  than  in  any  other'  mission  in  the  world. 

I  have  been  imbued  with  the  spirit  of  this  conference.  It  has  been 
a  conference  of  the  foundation  of  things — getting  back  to  normalcy, 
and  I  appreciate  it.  The  instruction  that  we  have  received  from 
President  Grant,  and  the  other  speakers  of  this  conference,  have  been 
by  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  have  treated  of  re- 
pentance, of  integrity,  dependability,  thrift — things  which  go  to  make 
up  a  true  life. 

I  was  impressed  with  a  remark  that  was  made  by  President  Rud- 
ger  Clawson,  in  the  talk  he  gave  upon  the  Bible,  admonishing  us  to* 
study  it ;  for,  said  he,  if  we  study  it  and  get  a  good  hold  of  it,  it  is 
equal  to  a  college!  education,  because  it  treats  of  every  phase  of  hum^an 
nature,  and  it  contains  some  of  the  most  beautiful  literature  that  was 
ever  penned.  And  I  thought  of  our  great  President  of  this  nation, 
Abraham  Lincoln,  and  the  books  that  he  had.  He  had  the  Bible, 
and  was  a  close  student  of  it.  He  also  had,  we  are  told,  the  life  of 
George  Washington,  and  also  had  access,  I  believe,  to  Aesop's  Fables, 
Bunyan's  Pilgrim's  Progress,  and  possibly  one  or  two  other  books. 
Now  Abraham  Lincoln  undoubtedly  was  a  learned  man.  These  books 
which  he  had  access  to  contain  the  fundamental  things,  and  they  were 
ground  into  his  soul,  and  made  him  great.  And  sometimes  I  think 
that  is  one  of  the  things  that  is  the  matter  with  us  in  these  troublous 
times,  that  we  do  not  hold  to,  and  have  not  had  ground  into'  ouc 
souls,  the  fundamental  things. 

Up  at  the  University  the  other  day,  as  has  been  said,  we  listened? 
to  a  very  notable  address  by  Dr.  Carver,  Professor  of  Political  Econ- 
omy in  H-fvard  University.  And  in  one  of  his  comparisons,  he  likened 
the  ho-rs'.   hrifty  community  with  one  that  was  dishonest  and  un- 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


thrifty;  and  the  thought  came  to  me  there,  that  if  all  the  bad  people 
— unthrifty,  dishonest — were  put  together  in  one  place  where  they 
could  not  take  advantage  and  deceive  the  good  people,  they  would 
have  about  all  the  hell  that  they  are  entitled  to. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  in  the  gospel,  and  in  all  the 
principles  thereof,  and,  as  President  Brown  has  said,  I  trust  that  we 
will  give  every  loyal  support  in  every  way  to  those  who  were  placed 
over  us  to  lead  and  to  guide  us  at  this  time.  In  that  remarkable  ad- 
dress of  president  Ivins,  the  other  day,  he  pointed  out  to  us  in  a 
very  clear  manner,  the  administrations  of  the  respective  prophets  who 
have  presided  over  us  since  the  organization  of  the  Church,  and  that 
each  had  his  special  work  to  perform.  Now  it  is  up  to  us.  President 
Grant  is  our  Prophet.  We  have  our  problems  to  solve.  We  love  and 
appreciate  the  brethren,  those  in  authority  who  have  gone  before ;  but 
this  is  our  day,  let  us  make  the  best  of  it.  Let  us  give  full  support 
to  the  living  prophets,  and  may  we  be  able  to  do  so  with  all  our 
might,  mind  and  strength,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

The  combined  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "The  nations  bow  to  Satan's 
thrall,"  solo  parts  by  Mrs.  Josephine  Brower  and  August  Glissmeyer. 

ELDER  WINSLOW  FARR  SMITH 

(President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission) 
How  wonderful  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ!  When  I  say  this 
I  refer,  not  to  the  religions  of  the  world  as  we  find  them,  but  to  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  its  fulness,  as  it  is  found  in  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints — the  gospel  as  it  was  given  to  us, 
the  children  of  our  Father,  with  the  grave  responsibility  of  bearing 
its  glad  message  to  all  the  world.  In  it,  I  see  not  only  a  religion 
for  Sunday,  which  merely  brings  us  together  in  our  place  of  worship 
for  the  purpose  of  singing  the  praises  of  our  Maker,  and  listening 
to  the  words  of  advice  and  counsel,  but  I  see  in  it  a  religion  suited 
to  the  weakest  and  the  strongest,  to  the  unlearned  and  the  most 
profound  student,  to  the  wisest  of  us  all,  and  yet  adapted  to  the 
needs  of  every  boy  and  girl.  I  see  in  it  a  force  that  fits  you  and 
me  for  every  walk  of  life.  I  see  in  the  working  of  the  great  Church, 
which  God  has  commissioned  to  teach  this  gospel,  a  vital  interest 
in  the  spiritual  and  temporal  welfare  of  every  one  of  its  members. 

I  have  rejoiced  during  this  conference  to  hear  divinely  com- 
missioned servants  of  the  Lord  admonish  the  Latter-day  Saints  in 
temporal  affairs.  I  have  rejoiced  in  the  counsel  of  President  Grant, 
that  the  Saints  should  rally  in  the  support  of  the  institutions  of 
Zion  to  the  fullest  of  their  capacity;  build  them  up  and  strengthen 
them,  that  there  might  be  means  all  through  the  land  to  carry 
on  the  great  work,  and  fill  the  mission  that  the  Church  has.  When 


ELDER  WINSLOW  FARR  SMITH  111 


we  realize  that  we  must  buy  many  things  from  the  outside  and 
ponder  the  fact  that  every  cent  we  pay  for  these  things,  of  necessity, 
must  go  to  the  outside,  shall  we  not  support  home  institutions ;  buy 
the  things  that  can  be  made  here  and  that  can  be  grown  here,  so 
that  every  dollar  that  these  products  bring  may  remain  at  home 
to  build  up  the  institutions  that  are  ours  and  in  turn  enrich  us  as 
a  people? 

I  believe  God  inspired  Wilford  Woodruff  to  back  the  great  sugar 
industry  with  the  credit  of  the  Church ;  and  I  believe  that  in  these 
trying  times,  when  the  men  at  the  head  of  the  Church  have  placed 
the  resources  of  this  people  back  of  these  great  institutions,  it  has 
been  done  with  one  thought  only,  and  that  thought  is,  that  the 
institutions  that  have  made  us  prosperous  shall  be  preserved  to  the 
people  here  at  home,  and  shall  not  fall  into  the  hands  of  capitalists 
not  interested  in  us. 

I  have  listened  to  criticisms  of  the  policy  of  the  Church  in  these 
matters,  and  I  am  free  to  say,  that  I  have,  in  each  and  every  case, 
expressed  my  opinion  that  at  this  time  the  Saints  dare  not  resort 
to  any  criticism,,  lest  they  lose  their  faith.  Criticism  of  the  men 
God  sustains  is  the  beginning  of  the  loss  of  faith,  and  the  children 
of  our  Father  who  have  been  called  from  all  the  nations  of  the  earth 
to  love  and  rejoice  in  all  the  wonderful  blessings  of  the  gospel, 
should  realize  that  these  men  have,  deep  in  their  hearts,  the  interests 
of  every  one  of  us. 

I  wish  every  one  of  you  could  have  come  into  close  contact 
with  President  Grant  in  the  trying  times  that  we  have  been  passing 
through,  when  it  looked  as  if  our  great  industries  might  go  to 
the  wall.  He  was  in  my  home  in  Chicago,  in  the  mission  home, 
weighed  down  with  worry  and  trouble — not  personal  trouble,  but 
anxiety  for  the  interests  of  the  people  God  has  called  him  to  preside 
over ;  and  I  believe  that  if  every  true  Latter-day  Saint  realized  what 
President  Grant  went  through  for  the  people,  in  trying  to  save 
their  interests  for  them,  they  would  be  more  loyal  to  the  work  of 
God  and  to  his  divinely  appointed  servants  than  they  have  been  in 
the  past.  I  hope  and  pray  that  the  Saints  will  consider  this  matter 
and  will  awaken  to  the  realization  that  this  difficulty  has  been  met 
largely  by  the  work  of  the  man  that  God  sustains  as  President  of 
His  Church  upon  the  earth,  and  that  he  should  be  sustained  by  every 
member  of  the  Church. 

What  does  the  gospel  mean  to  you?  What  does  the  Church 
mean  to  you  ?  Is  it  merely  an  opportunity  that  you  have  of  mingling 
together  socially,  in  coming  out  and  studying  in  the  various  organ- 
izations and  auxiliary  associations  the  outlines  that  are  placed  be- 
fore you?  Does  it  mean  merely  an  opportuntiy  for  you  to  get  for- 
ward in  the  world?  If  it  does,  then  you  have  failed  to  grasp  the 
great  mission  and  the  wonderful  message  and  power  of  the  gospel  of 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Jesus  Christ.  It  is,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  not  for  our  spirits  only, 
but  for  our  bodies.  It  is  not  for  time  only,  but  for  all  eternity.  It 
did  not  begin  for  you  and  me  when  we  came  here  to  receive  it,  but  it 
began  when  time  began,  and  it  will  continue  through  all  the  ages. 
The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  was  and  is  planned  for  the  eternal  sal- 
vation and  exaltation  of  His  children,  a  scheme  that  was  devised 
in  the  heavens,  a  plan  that  was  laid  down  with  definite  laws,  with 
commandments,  with  ordinances  that  we  must  hearken  unto  and  to 
which  obedience  must  be  rendered,  if  we  will  have  the  blessings  that 
this  gospel  promises. 

God  has  made  us  free,  has  placed  us  here  on  earth  to  live  our 
lives  just  exactly  as  we  want  to  live  them.  This  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  perfect  law  of  liberty,  and  no  man,  be  he  weak  or  be 
he  strong,  is  forced  to  obey  its  behests ;  but  every  man  is  given  the 
opportunity,  is  given  the  privilege  of  obtaining  perfect  liberty  con- 
tingent upon  rendering  obedience  to  its  laws.  We  came  here  free, 
free  as  the  very  air  we  breathe,  and  can  elect  to  go  forward  along 
the  path  of  righteousness,  or  can  follow  along  the  path  of 
unrighteousness  and  error.  But  we  cannot  look  for,  we  can- 
not hope  for,  nor  will  we  receive,  the  blessings  predicated  upon  the 
keeping  of  these  laws  unless  we  live  them.  It  is  necessary  that  we 
live  righteously  to  gain  eternal  life.  I  tell  you,  my  friends,  it  is  a 
serious  thing  and  the  temptations  that  come  to  us  must  be  met.  We 
hear  people  say,  occasionally,  "What  a  terrible  thing  it  was  that 
Adam  sinned."  They  do  not  realize  that  the  sin  of  Adam,  so- 
called,  was  in  fact  a  great  blessing  to  you  and  me,  for  it  made 
possible  the  establishing  of  the  human  family;  the  bringing  of  our 
souls  into  mortality,  and  permiting  us  to  enjoy  the  experiences  of  this 
earth  life.  By  successfully  completing  the  course  in  this  school  of 
experiences,  we  qualify  ourselves  to  live  eternally  with  God  and 
Christ  in  the  everlasting  kingdom  of  our  Father.  "Adam  fell  that 
men  might  be,  and  men  are  that  they  might  have  joy."  And  so 
it  rests  with  us,  whether  we  will  measure  up  to  the  standard,  avoid 
the  temptations  that  come  in  our  way,  and  gain  that  experience,  that 
wonderful  experience,  of  the  school  of  mortality,  which  is  absolutely 
necessary  to  an  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  God,  our  Father. 

When  we  see  temptation  round  about  us,  we  have  the  duty  of 
meeting  it ;  of  fighting  against  it  and  of  triumphing  over  it.  If  we 
will  meet  it  nobly  and  exert  ourselves  to  the  fullest,  giving  every 
measure  of  strength  that  we  have  to  the  great  work,  then  there  will 
come  to  our  lives  the  wonderful  joy  that  God  has  promised.  And 
truly,  the  happiest  man,  the  happiest  woman,  on  the  earth,  are 
they  who  keep  the  commandments  of  God.  The  worth  while  thing 
is  not  the  wealth  of  the  world,  not  the  honors  of  men,  but  that  gen- 
uine, deep-seated  joy  that  comes  into  our  hearts,  placed  there  by 
God  the  eternal  Father  through  the  Holy  Spirit,  when  we  do  our 


ELDER  WINSLOW  FARR  SMITH 


113 


duty.  O  that  every  child  of  our  heavenly  Father,  and  every  member 
of  His  Church  in  particular,  might  realize  what  it  means  to  keep  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord,  and  that  we,  as  one  united  whole,  might 
put  forth  a  mighty  effort  to  combat  evil  in  its  every  form.  Then  day 
by  day  we  would  approach  nearer  to  our  heavenly  Father,  and  our 
righteous  example  would  draw  into  our  ranks  many  souls  to  aid  us 
in  the  great  work  of  redemption,  and  the  joy  of  all  would  be  in- 
creased many,  many  fold. 

It  was  my  privilege  recently  to  visit  the  site  of  the  City  of 
Nauvoo.  As  I  stood  on  Temple  Hill  and  looked  down  upon  the 
majestic  sweep  of  the  river,  and  recalled  that  there  the  Saints  had 
been  established  and  had  been  prospered,  only  to  be  driven  away  and 
to  make  that  memorable  journey  across  the  plains,  I  thanked  my 
heavenly  Father  for  the  class  of  men  and  women  who  came  out  of 
the  world  to  accept  the  gospel,  who  lived  their  religion,  near  to  their 
heavenly  Father,  and  who  withstood  the  persecutions  that  were 
heaped  upon  them.  I  thanked  God  for  my  parentage.  Arid  as  I 
looked  upon  the  old  homes  of  my  ancestors,  and  the  old  residences 
of  ethers  with  whose  names  you  are  familiar,  I  could  not  help  say- 
ing, God  knew  what  He  was  doing  when  He  permitted  persecutions 
to  come  to  those  people,  for  they  were  tried  in  the  fiery  furnace; 
they  grew  stronger  under  opposition;  they  were  victorious  over 
temptations  and  trials  that  were  placed  before  them;  and  they 
were  blessed  and  sustained,  and  though  they  came  into'  this  wil- 
derness with  hardly  enough  food  to  sustain  them  through  the  first 
season,  and  though  they  were  opposed  by  the  nation  and  harassed 
by  the  Indians;  yet  they  were  true  to  their  covenants,  to  their 
heavenly  Father,  and  He  blessed  them  and  sustained  them,  and 
buoyed  them  up,  and  now  we  are  enjoying  the  fruits  of  their  faith- 
fulness. 

If  we  could  only  heed  that  admonition  of  our  president  to  leave 
those  things  alone  that  come  from  the  outside,  that  are  a  curse  to 
us, — I  refer  to  those  things  decried  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom — and 
could  the  money  that  we  send  away  from  home  for  tea,  coffee, 
tobacco,  liquors  and  coco-cola  be  applied  to  the  establishment  of 
industrial  institutions,  and  in  the  carrying  on  of  the  work  of  the  Lord, 
and  if  we  were  to  live  this  holy  law,  then  the  peoples  of  the  earth 
would  have  to  look  up  in  admiration  to  the  people  of  God. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  gospel  is  for  you  and  me.  It  is 
a  reality,  a  genuine  thing,  and  not  a  passing  fancy  Those  who  keep 
every  one  of  the  commandments  of  our  Father  and  live  near  to  Him, 
and  do  the  things  that  He  has  laid  down  for  them,  are  happy.  All 
others  receive  joy  in  a  direct  ratio  to  the  effort  they  put  forth. 

We  are  today  passing  through  a  period  of  persecution.  In  the 
British  Isles  it  is  especially  severe  and  trying,  while  in  our  own 
country  there  are  some  who  attempt  to  injure  us  by  their  malicious 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


stories.  The  lives  of  the  Saints  and  the  achievements  of  the  Church 
stand  up  before  the  world  greater  and  more  glorious  than  ever, 
despite  the  vituperations  of  the  hirelings  who  do  that  work.  The 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  genuine.  It  is  the  power  of  God  unto  sal- 
vation. It  is  the  true  way  for  you  and  for  me.  It  stands  for  good 
citizenship.  Good  Latter-day  Saints  are  loyal  citizens  ill  the  coun- 
try, regardless  of  the  party  they  may  individually  belong  to.  A  good 
Latter-day  Saint  is  a  credit  to  his  nation,  for  he  upholds  the  men  in 
power  and  he  is  striving  continually  to  do  his  part  as  a  man,  being 
honest  with  his  fellow  men,  and  with  his  Master.  I  believe  that 
this  great  nation  of  ours  was  divinely  brought  forth,  that  it  might 
be  a  place  for  the  coming  forth  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I 
believe  that  that  grand  old  flag  of  ours,  the  red,  the  white  and  blue, 
will  always  shine  out  as  an  emblem  of  liberty  to  the  nations  of  the  earth. 
I  believe  that  God  will  not  permit  men  to  come  into  power  as  leaders 
in  our  nation  who  will  disgrace  those  jnoble  colors.  That  banner 
of  liberty  was  given  to  the  world  that  under  it  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  might  come  forth ;  and  when  the  time  had  arrived,  when 
the  hour  had  struck,  when  the  world  was  ready,  God  chose  a  humble 
boy  in  the  backwoods  of  New  York  and  gave  him  the  divine  com- 
mission to  go  forth  and  establish  His  Church. 

He  did  as  commanded,  and  though  the  Church  has  been  perse- 
cuted, and  men  have  heaped  upon  it  all  manner  of  opposition ;  yet, 
after  ninety  years,  it  stands  unimpeached  and  unimpeachable,  be- 
cause it  is  the  work  of  Almighty  God.  Its  destiny  is  to  fill  the  earth  ; 
its  mission  is  to  preach  the  gospel  to  all  mankind ;  its  purpose  is  to 
prepare  the  human  family  for  the  coming  of  Jesus  Christ  to  reign 
as  king  of  kings  and  Lord  of  Lords.  And  we,  who  remain  true, 
who  keep  the  commandments  of  the  living  God,  will  when  Christ 
comes  to  take  His  place  be  found  in  our  places,  glorified,  blessed  of 
our  heavenly  Father,  and  He  will  say  unto  us,  "Well  done,  thou 
good  and  faithful  servant." 

Let  us  be  true,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  Let  us  be  loyal  to  our 
state  and  to  our. nation  ;  loyal  to  ourselves  and  to  the  Church.  Stand 
back  of  the  men  God  chooses  and  sustains  to  preside  over  us. 

If  we  will  do  this,  our  hearts  will  be  joyful;  our  lives  will  be 
filled  with  blessings,  and  the  fame  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  will  go 
forth  to  all  the  world.  Then  nothing  can  stop  the  onward  march 
and  the  work  of  God  will  triumph. 

A  duet,  "Grant  us  peace,"  was  sung  by  Agnes  Bolto  and  Don 
Priestly,  obligato  part  by  Ruby  Childs,  and  a  mixed  double  quartette. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


115 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

{President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission) 

I  humbly  pray  that  I  may  be  blessed  with  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
and  speak  lunder  that  divine  power  by  which  words  are  carried  unto  the 
hearts  of  the  children  of  men. 

"The  rights  of  the  priesthood  are  inseparably  connected  with  the 
powers  of  heaven."  This  comforting  truth  has  been  abundantly  mani- 
fested in  this  conference  thus  far,  for  by  the  rights  of  the  Priesthood, 
the  President  of  the  Church,  his  counselors,  and  other  general  authori- 
ties have  spoken  unto  Israel,  and  the  powers  of  heaven  have  responded, 
to  the  instruction  and  comfort  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  half 
in  heaven  and  half  on  earth  when  we  do  the  will  of  the  Father;  for 
there  is  no  liberty  so  sweet  and  enduring  as  the  liberty  of  the  gospel ; 
and  the  wealth,  the  honors,  the  dignities  of  the  world  cannot  equal 
nor  bring  that  peace  which  comes  from  a  still  and  quiet  conscience, 

Isaiah  said: 

"For  unto  us  a  Child  is  born,  unto  us  a  Son  is  given;  and  the  govern- 
ment shall  be  upon  His  shoulder;  and  His  name  sholl  be  called  Wonderful,, 
Counsellor,  the  mighty  God,  the  everlasting  Father,  the  Prince  of  Peace." 

It  was  the  Prince  of  Peace  who  inspired  President  Warren  G. 
Harding  to  call  that  notable  assembly,  the  Disarmament  Conference. 
Under  the  Spirit  of  the  Prince  of  Peace,  that  conference  labored  to  do 
away  with  the  horrors  of  war,  and 'bring  peace  to  a  troubled  world. 
Is  it  not  the  beginning  of  the  fulfilment  of  that  great  prediction  that 
swords  shall  be  beaten  into  plowshares  and  spears  into  pruninghooks? 
As  the  Lord  can  send  peace  to  the  nations  who  seek  himt  so  can  he  send 
peace  to  the  laboring  conscience.  In  the  beginning  of  this  dispensation 
God  commanded  that  the  elders  of  this  Church  should  preach  repentance 
unto  the  people,  because  if  people  do  not  repent,  they  become  ripened 
in  iniquity,  and  then  their  doom  is  sealed,  for  the  fulness  of  the  wrath  of 
God  comes  upon  people  and  nations  when  they  are  ripened  in  iniquity. 

By  the  word  of  the  Lord  this  land  was  designated  as  the  land  of 
promise,  which  was  choice  above  all  other  land's,  which  the  Lord  God 
had  preserved  for  a  righteous  people  *  *  *  whoso  should  possess 
this  land  of  promise,  from  that  time  henceforth  and  forever,  should 
serve  Him,  the  true  and  only  God,  or  they  should  be  swept  off  when  the 
fulness  of  his  wrath  should  come  upon  them..  *  *  *  And  the 
fulness  of  His  wrath  cometh  upon  them  when  they  are  ripened  in 
iniquity.  Moroni,  in  the  second  chapter  of  the  book  of  Ether,  gives 
this  solemn  warning  to  the  people  of  this  dispensation.  He  had  in  mind 
the  people  of  the  world  today  when  "he  spoke  this  word  of  warning: 

"And  this  cometh  unto  you,,  O  ye  Gentiles,  that  ye  may  know  the 
decrees  of  God — that  ye  may  repent,  and  not  continue  in  your  iniquities 
until  the  fulness  come,  that  ye  may  not  bring  down  the  fulness  of  the  wrath 
of  God  upon  you  as  the  inhabitants  of  the  land  have  hitherto  done." 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


In  the  same  book  is  a  fateful  prophecy.  The  prophets  "testified 
that  a  great  curse  should  come  upon  the  land,  and  also  upon  the 
people,  and  that  there  should  be  a  great  destruction  among  them,  such 
an  one  as  never  had  been  upon  the  face  of  the  earth,  and  their  bones 
should  become  as  heaps  of  earth  upon  the  face  of  the  land,  except  they 
should  repent  of  their  wickedness.''  On  the  banks  of  the  Tennessee 
river,  near  Chattanooga,  is  an  artificial  hill,  called  the  Citico  Mound. 
The  officials  of  the  county  in  which  the  mound  is  situated  were  build- 
ing a  road  and  had  commenced  to  plow  away  the  mound ;  but  the  lead- 
ing Presbyterian  minister  of  that  city  protested  against  it  as  an  act  of 
desecration.  Why?  Because  scientists  who  had  explored  that  mound 
discovered  it  to  be  a  vast  tomb  filled  with  the  hones  of  men  and  women 
upon  whom  judgments  had  fallen  because  of  their  iniquity.  This  is 
one  evidence  of  the  fulfilment  of  that  prophecy.  I  ask  you,  is  that  not 
a  proof  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God  and  that  the  Book  of 
Mormon  was  translated  by  the  gift  and  power  of  God? 

What  sin  brings  men  and  women  in  the  ripeness  of  iniquity?  I 
tell  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  immorality.  Coming  from 
Miami,  a  few  weeks  ago,  to  Jacksonville,  in  an  automobile,  a  distance  of 
four  hundred  miles,  we  saw  many  automobiles  on  the  road  in  the  dead' 
of  night,  after  the  clock  had  tolled  the  hour  of  midnight,  and  in  these 
automobiles  we  could  see  by  the  light  of  the  moon,  girls  of  tender  age, 
young  women  and  young  men,  ofut  riding  that  time  of  night  in  the 
country  over  lonely  roads.  Such  practice  will  result  in  disaster.  Young 
men  and  young  women,  who  go  automobile  riding  in  the  dead  of  night, 
when  it  is  not  necessary  to  make  such  journeys,  so  sure  as  God  lives  are 
sowing  the  seeds  of  misery  and  sorrow.  "Woe  to  them,"  says  the 
prophet,  "that  are  at  ease  in  Zion."  Woe  to  the  parent  who  is  at  ease 
when  his  sons  and  daughters  are  out  pleasure-riding  at  night.  Woe  to 
the  parents  who  are  lulled  into  a  sense  of  fancied  security  concerning 
their  sons  and  daughters.  These  precious  and  splendid  young  men  and 
women  who  come  to  the  missions  to  preach  the  word  of  God  are  choice 
spirits — the  greatest  blessing  that  God  has  given  to  His  people. 
'  Isaiah  declared  that  Jesus  was  "a  man  of  sorrows." 

"But  He  was  wounded  for  our  transgressions,  He  was  bruised  for  our 
iniquities;  the  chastisement  of  our  peace  was  upon  Him;  and  with  His  stripes 
we  are  healed." 

Physicians  find  diseases  that  baffle  their  skill,  but 

"Earth  holds  no  sorrow  that  heaven  cannot  heal." 

Jesus  Christ  is  the 

"Joy  of  the  desolate,  light  of  the  straying, 
Hope  of  the  penitent,  fadeless  and  pure." 

He,  hy  His  gospel,  will  heal  the  diseased  mind  ;  He  will  pluck  from 


ELDER  CHARLES- A.  CALLIS 


117 


the  repentant  heart  the  sting  of  sin  and  wickedness.  He  will  remove 
that  awful  torture  of  remorse  of  conscience,  if  the  sinner  will  surrender 
unconditionally  to  Him  and  obey  the  gospel.    The  Apostle  John  says, 

"But  if  we  walk  in  the  light,  as  He  is  in  the  light,,  we  have  fellowship 
one  with  another,  and  the  blood  of  Jesus  Christ,  His  Son,  cleanseth  us  from 
all  sin." 

But  suppose  the  sinner  elects  to  take  the  downward  path  and 
become  a  law  unto  himself.   What  then?   Listen  to  what  the  Lord  says : 

"For  behold,  I,  God,  have  suffered  these  things  for  all  that  they  might 
not  suffer  if  they  would  repent." 

What  wonderful  goodness !    Well  might  Paul  say, 

"For  ye  know  the  grace  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that,  though  he  was 
rich,  yet  for  your  sakes  he  became  poor,  that  ye  through  his  poverty,  might 
be  rich." 

Not  rich  according  to  the  things  of  the  world,  but  rich  as  to  the 
things  of  God — the  gift  of  salvation,  the  boon  of  eternal  life,  which  will 
exalt  us  in  the  presence  of  God. 

"But  if  they  would  not  repent,  they  must  suffer  even  as  I." 

Now  Jesus  describes  the  suffering  of  the  sinner.    Listen  to  Him : 

"Which  suffering  caused  myself,  even  God,  the  greatest  of  all,  to 
tremble  because  of  pain,  and  to  bleed  at  every  pore,  and  to  suffer  both 
body  and  spirit;  and  would  that  I  might  not  drink  the  bitter  cup  and  shrink. 

"Nevertheless,  glory  be  to  the  Father,  and  I  partook  and  finished  my 
preparations  unto  the  children  of  men: 

"Wherefore,  I  command  you  again  to  repent,,  lest  I  humble  you  with 
my  almighty  power,  and  that  you  confess  your  sins,  lest  you  suffer  these 
punishments  of  which  I  have  spoken,  of  which  in  the  smallest,  yea,  even 
in  the  least  degree  you  have  tasted  at  the  time  I  withdrew  my  Spirit." 

What  makes  an  apostate  bitter?  What  makes  a  man  rebellious  at 
heart,  and  fight  with  fury  and  bitterness  of  soul  the  Church  and  the 
leaders  whom  God  hath  appointed?.  I  tell  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
it  is  the  sins  which  were  forgiven  him  at  baptism  that  have  returned 
unto  him ;  for  so  hath  the  Lord  said.  He  commands  men  to  retain  by  a 
godly  life  the  remission  of  their  sins,  but  if  they  sin,  he  withdraws  His 
Spirit ;  they  are  left  to  themselves,  they  are  filled  with  bitterness  and 
hate  for  the  work  of  God ;  no  matter  how  bright,  how  glowing,  how 
strong  the  testimony  of  the  gospel,  it  cannot  live,  it  will  not  abide, 
when  men  who  had  that  testimony  do  wickedly.  And  they  return  to 
their  former  sins,  as  the  dog  to  his  vomit,  and  the  sow  to  her  wallow- 
ing in  the  mire,  their  former  sins  return  to  them  and  they  are  left  in 
the  bitterness  of  sin  and  in  the  thralldom  and  bondage  of  Satan. 

"Salvation,"  said  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith,  "is  for  a  man  to  be 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


saved  from  all  his  enemies ;  for  until  a  man  can  triumph  over  death 
he  is  not  saved.  A  knowledge  of  the  Priesthood  alone  will  do  this." 
By  the  power  of  Jesus  Christ  the  faithful  Saints  shall  arise  in  the  glory 
of  the  resurrection,  clothed  in  white,  heirs  of  God,  and  joint  heirs  of 
Jesus. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  this  gospel  is 
the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  Just  as  surely  as  I  know  that  I 
stand  here,  I  know  that  Jesus  is  our  Redeemer,  and  that  He  liveth  and 
maketh  intercession  with  God  for  the  children  of  men.  By  the  same 
Spirit  I  know  that  this  gospel  is  the  power  of  God  Unto  salvation — 
that  salvation  which  shall  conquer  death  and  bring  light,  immortality, 
and  glory  and  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

Those  here  who  do  not  belong  to  this  Church,  who  have  not 
tasted  of  the  sweetness  of  the  fruits  of  the  gospel,  I  invite  to 
repent  and  to  be  baptized  for  the  remission  of  their  sins,  and  they  shall 
receive,  by  the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  a 
testimony  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a 
prophet  of  God,  and  that  this  gospel  is  in  truth  and  in  deed  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation,  which  I  testify  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

The  anthem,  "Send  out  Thy  light,"  was  sung  by  the  combined 
choir. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  George  J.  Cannon,  a  mem- 
ber of  the  General  Board  Y.  M.  M.  I.  A. 


SECOND  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

The  second  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall, 
Sunday  afternoon,  2  o'clock,  April  9,  1922. 

Elder  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  president  of  the  Central  States  mis- 
sion, presided. 

The  Mt.  Nebo  choir,  Utah  stake,  furnished  the  singing,  under  the 
leadership  of  Carl  O.  Nelson,  conductor.  Elder  Tracy  Y.  Cannon 
played  the  organ  accompaniments. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "For  the  strength  of  the  hills 
we  bless  Thee." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  William  C.  Winder,  of 
the  Granite  stake  High  Council. 

The  choir  sang,  "The  Pilgrims'  chorus." 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


119 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

(President  of  the  Mexican  Mission.) 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  if  the  Gentiles  shall  hearken  unto  the 
Lamb  of  God  in  that  day  that  He  shall  manifest  Himself  unto  them  in  word 
and  also  in  power,  in  very  deed  unto  the  taking  away  of  their  stumbling 
blocks,  and  if  they  harden  not  their  hearts  against  the  Lamb  of  God,  they 
shall  be  numbered  among  the  seed  of  thy  father :  yea,  they  shall  be  number- 
ed among  the  house  of  Israel;  and  they  shall  be  a  blessed  people  upon  the 
promised  land  forever;  they  shall  be  no  more  brought  down  into  captivity; 

and  the   house    of    Israel   shall   no   more  be  confounded  And 

it  came  to  pass  that  the  angel  spake  unto  me,  Njephi,  saying,  Thou  hast 
beheld  that  if  the  Gentiles  repent  it  shall  be  well  with  them;  and  thou  also 
knowest  concerning  the  covenants  of  the  Lord  unto  the  house  of  Israel; 
and  thou  also  hast  heard  that  whoso  repenteth  not  must  perish.  Therefore, 
wo  be  unto  the  Gentiles  if  it  so  be  that  they  harden  heir  hearts  against  the 
Lamb  of  God.  For  the  time  cometh,  saith  the  Lamb  of  God,  that  I  will 
work  a  great  and  a  marvelous  work  among  the  children  of  men;  a  work 
which  shall  be  everlasting,  either  on  the  one  hand  or  on  the  other — either 
to  the  convincing  of  them  unto  peace  and  life  eternal,  or  unto  the  deliverance 
of  them  to  the  hardness  of  their  hearts  and  the  blindness  of  their  minds 
unto  their  being  brought  down  into  captivity,  and  also  into  destruction,,  both 
temporally  and  spiritually,  according  to  the  captivity  of  the  devil,,  of  which 
I  have_  spoken."    I  Nephi  14:  1-7. 

These  are  the  words  that  the  Lord  spoke  through  His  prophet 
Nephi,  when  He  gave  unto  him  the  vision  of  what  should  be  upon 
this  continent  in  the  last  days.  He  beheld  that  the  remnant  of  his 
seed  that  should  be  mingled  with  the  Lamanites,  should  be  brought 
down  by  the  hand  of  the  Gentile  nations  that  should  come  in  among 
them.  He  prophesied  also  that  the  Lord  would  not  permit  the  Gen- 
tiles to  remain  in  a  state  of  darkness,  described  by  him  incident  to,  or 
touching,  the  great  and  abominable  church  in  their  midst,  incident 
to  the  fact  that  the  holy  scriptures  had  been  wrested  and  twisted 
among  them,  to  the  end  that  the  people  were  not  able  to  discover  or  dis- 
cern which  was  right  or  which  was  wrong ;  but  the  Lord  would  through 
his  mercy,  establish  among  the  Gentiles  the  fulness  of  His  everlasting 
gospel.  And  he  made  wonderful  promises  unto  the  Gentiles,  who 
should  be  blessed.  And  here  he  sets  forth  very  plainly,  that  if  they 
would  give  heed  to  the  teachings  of  that  gospel  that  would  be  restored 
among  them,  they  should  be  numbered  among  those  of  the  house  of 
Israel,  they  should  be  blessed  for  ever,  they  should  not  be  molested 
in  their  possession  of  this  land  of  promise.  But  there  is  another  side 
of  the  question  here,  and  it  is  specifically  set  forth  that  if  they  should 
not  serve  the  Lord  with  full  purpose  of  heart,  if  they  should  turn 
from  Him,  they  should  be  destroyed,  and  that  not  only  temporally  but 
also  spiritually.  I  find  in  this  Book  of  Mormon  things  that  to  me 
are  very  pertinent,  for  this  is  the  very  nation  described.  This  book 
is  one  that  has  come  into  the  world  with  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel.  It  is  true,  it  is  the  word  of  the  Lord  given  through  His 
ancient  prophets  and  apostles  upon  this  land,  who  foresaw  our  day. 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


And  inasmuch  as  the  note  has  been  sounded  in  this  conference,  of 
repentance,  it  seems  to  me  timely  to  call  attention  to  some  of  these 
things  that  so  specifically  point  to  our  day;  for  if  we  are  not  mindful 
as  a  people,  if  we  are  not  mindful  as  a  nation,  if  the  Gentile  people 
who  have  come  here  do  not  give  heed  to  the  inspired  word  of  God, 
do  not  accept  the  gospel  as  offered  to  them,  this  scripture  foretells  for 
them  an  awful  destruction. 

I  would  like  to  read  to  you  the  Lord's  decree,  the  first  decree 
that  we  have  any  account  of  having  been  given,  concerning  this  land 
on  which  we  dwell.  This  decree  was  given  to  the  brother  of  Jared, 
a  great  prophet  who  led  his  people  to  this  land  at  a  very  early  day. 
You  will  find  it  in  the  words  of  the  brother  of  Jared  given  in  the 
second  chapter  of  the  Book  of  Ether,  through  Moroni,  who  abridged 
the  history  of  the  Jaredites  found  on  the  gold  plates.  It  is  there 
stated : 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  they  did  travel  in  the  wilderness,  and  did 
build  barges,  in  which  they  did  cross  many  waters,  being  directed  continually 
by  the  hand  of  the  Lord.  And  the  Lord  would  not  suffer  that  they  should 
stop  beyond  the  sea  in  the  wilderness  but  He  would  that  they  should  come 
forth  even  unto  the  land  of  promise,  which  was  choice  above  all  other  lands, 
which  the  Lord  God  had  preserved  for  a  righteous  people.  And  He  had 
sworn  in  His  wrath  unto  the  brother  of  Jared,  that  whoso  should  possess 
this  land  of  promise  from  that  time  henceforth  and  forever  should  serve 
him,  the  true  and  only  God,,  or  they  should  be  swept  off  when  the  fulness  of 
His  wrath  should  come  upon  them.  And  now,  we  can  behold  the  decrees  of 
God  concerning  this  land,  that  it  is  a  land  of  promise;  and  whatsoever 
nation  shall  possess  it  shall  serve  God,  or  they  shall  be  swept  off  wjhen 
the  fulness  of  His  wrath  has  come  upon  them.  And  the  fulness 
of  His  wrath  cometh  upon  them  wh'en  they  are  ripened  in 
iniquity.  For  behold,  this  is  a  land  which  is  choice  above  all  other  lands; 
wherefore  he  that  doth  possess  it  shall  serve  God  or  shall  be  swept  off; 
for  it  is  the  everlasting  decree  of  God.  And  it  is  not  until  the  fulnes  of 
iniquity  among  the  children  of  the  land  that  they  are  swept  off.  And  this 
cometh  unto  you,  O  ye  Gentiles,  that  ye  may  know  the  decrees  of  God — 
that  ye  may  repent,  and  not  continue  in  your  iniquities  until  the  fulness 
come,  that  ye  may  not  bring  down  the  fulness  of  wrath  of  God 
upon  you  as  the  inhabitants  of  this  land  hath  hitherto  done.  Behold, 
this  is  a  choice  land,,  and  whatsoever  nation  shall  possess  it  shall  be 
free  from  bondage,  and  from  captivity,  and  from  all  other  nations  under 
heaven,  if  they  will  but  serve  the  God  of  the  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ 
who  hath  been  manifested  by  the  things  which  we  have  written. " 

Here  again  we  find  the  perfect  warning  voice  of  God  coming 
to  the  Gentiles  who  should  possess  this  land.  Now  the  question  of 
all  importance  to  us  is  not  armies,  not  navies,  is  not  ambition,  is  not 
universities,  is  not  learning,  but  the  question  to  us  is,  wherein  lies 
the  security  of  this  great  Gentile  nation?  Not  only  the  one  but  the 
many  Gentile  nations  commingling,  making  a  nation  that  has  built  one 
of  the  greatest  governments  that  has  ever  been  known,  that  has  es- 
tablished better  laws  and  better  living  conditions  than  have  ever  be- 
fore been  known  among  the  children  of  men  since  the  creation,  things 
that  are  in  every  way  desirable?    But  I  repeat,  that  the  continuance 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


121 


of  these  conditions  depends  upon  the  fact  as  to  whether  the  people 
will  accept  and  subscribe  to  the  principles  of  the  gospel.  And  to  ac- 
cept the  gospel  is  none  other,  nor  aught  else  than  to  put  our  lives  in 
harmony  with  the  laws  of  eternal  truth,  which  are  God's  laws ;  the  laws 
by  which  all  that  is  was  created,  and  all  that  is,  is  sustained  in 
the  universe ;  and  when  those  laws  are  controverted,  when  those  laws 
are  disobeyed,  that  disobedience  brings  disintegration,  and  destruc- 
tion, and  the  ultimate  annihilation  of  those  who  indulge  in  breaking 
them.  Is  there  not  today,  by  the  prophets,  seers  and  revelators,  who 
stand  at  the  head  of  Israel,  who  are  God's  mouth-pieces  unto  the 
world  today,  who  sound  the  cry  of  repentance  today,  and  also  to 
the  whole  earth — is  there  not  again  a  sounding  of  that  decree  ? 

We  have  not  only  the  testimony  of  your  sons  in  the  mission 
field,  who  come  in  contact  with  the  world  ;  the  testimony  of  mission 
presidents  who  sound  their  voices  to  and  mingle  their  voices  in,  all 
parts  of  this  fair  land,  Canada  and  Mexico ;  but  we  have  the  testimony 
of  this  nation's  statesmen  and  great  men,  that  there  has  never  been  a 
time  in  the  history  of  this  country,  when  there  was  so  crying  a  need 
for  repentance  as  there  is  today.  I  believe  we  are  living  in  the  ful- 
filment of  the  time  spoken  of  by  Paul,  in  his  Epistle  to  Timothy.  This 
is  as  I  find  it,  and  I  hope  you  will  not  take  it  that  I  am  a  calamity 
howler,  and  that  I  do  this  for  effect.  I  consider  it  incumbent  upon 
me  to  raise  my  voice  abroad  and  at  home ;  and  I  do  not  let  an  oppor- 
tunity pass,  to  sound  my  voice,  even  the  cry  of  repentance,  in  the 
ears  of  the  people,  so  that  not  only  we,  but  the  nations  and  people 
with  whom  we  dwell,  might  repent,  and  be  saved  in  the  kingdom 
of  heaven.  I  believe  we  are  living  in  the  time  of  the  fulfilment  of 
the  words  spoken  by  the  Apostle  Paul  to  Timothy:  (II  Tim.  3:1-7.) 

"This  know  also,  that  in  the  last  days  perilous  times  shall  come.  For 
men  shall  be  lovers  of  their  own  selves,  covetous,  boasters,  prou<A,  blas- 
phemers, disobedient  to  parents,  unthankful,  unholy,  without  natural  af- 
fection, trucebreakers,  false  accusers,  incontinent,  fierce,,  despisers  of  those 
who  are  good,  traitors,  heady  highminded,  lovers  of  pleasures  more  than 
lovers  of  God,  having  a  form  of  godliness,,  but  denying  the  power  thereof; 
from  such  turn  away.  For  of  this  sort  are  they  which  creep  into  houses,, 
and  lead  captive  silly  women,  laden  with  sins,  led  away  with  divers  lusts, 
ever  learning,  and  never  able  to  come  to  the  knowledge  of  the  truth." 

I  request  you  candidly,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  ask  yourselves  the 
question,  was  there  ever  a  time  when  you  have  seen  manifested  so 
great  a  spirit  of  selfishness  as  there  is  today,  individually,  in  groups, 
in  cities,  and  nationally?  We  find  this  selfish  instinct  more  apparent 
than  I  have  ever  seen  it  in  my  life.  Do  we  not  find  ourselves  to  be 
deceivers,  truce-breakers,  and  find  the  same  in  others?  And  do  we 
not  find  ourselves  hating  one  another,  partaking  of  practices  of  the 
world  that  are  not  righteous?  Why,  I  am  constantly  kept  in  hot 
water.  I  came  up  here,  in  the  last  two  weeks,  from  the  interior  of 
Mexico,  and  I  find  here,  in  the  newspapers  and  among  the  people, 
things  that  are  slanderous  to  the  Mexican  people,  things  that  are 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


given  out  as  facts  without  facts  to  support  them.  But  they  are  slan- 
derous to  those  people ;  they  stir  up  hatred  against  the  people  there, 
and  when  I  return  I  am,  of  course,  asked  about  such  things,  and  hence 
am  kept  in  hot  water.  We  go  to  the  southern  republic,  and  we  find 
the  press  of  that  country  rampant  over  the  treatment  that  they  re- 
ceive, that  is  heaped  upon  their  citizens  who  happen  to  be  here,  and 
I  have  to  act  in  the  roll  of  a  pacifier  in  both  countries.  I  try  to  make 
them  see  that  it  is  not  the  work  of  the  masses,  but  of  agitators,  and 
I  think  likely  that  class  is  to  be  found  here. 

In  the  religions  of  the  day  do  we  find  the  power  of  God,  or  is 
there  more  likely  to  be  found  a  form  of  godliness,  and  the  men  en- 
gaged in  religious  pursuits  denying  the  power  of  godliness,  more  than 
we  find  in  them  a  living  and  loving  faith,  and  the  love  of  God  and  His 
righteousness?  I  wish  to  read  a  little  extract  from  the  Literary 
Digest  of  February  25 : 

''Interviewed  by  a  reporter  of  the  New  York  Times,  several  clergymen 
exhibit,  we  _are  told,,  a  decidedly  'liberal'  tendency,  one  of  them  going  so 
far  as  saying  that  many  Methodists  in  good  standing  had  only  a  'technical' 
belief  in  the  verbal  inspiration  of  the  Bible,  and  that  in  his  opinion  a  man 
might  be  a  good  Methodist  and  believe,  for  instance,  that  the  Biblical 
account  of  the  creation,  literally  understood,  was  not  in  accordance  with 
the  fact." 

.  Further  on  in  the  article  it  says : 

"People  widen  their  experience.  They  are  simply  out-growing  these  old 
points  of  view.  There  has  been  an  emancipation  in  theological  views  about 
the  verbal  inspiration  of  the  Bible.  The  belief  in  verbal  inspiiation  is  only 
technically  held  today  by  a  great  many  people.  Today  we  "emphasize 
the  spirit  of  the  word.  The  great  thing  is  to  exercise  discrimination.  There 
are  good  books  and  bad,  and  you  have  to  discriminate  but  nobody  can  do 
that  for  rne.  The  attitude  of  most  Methodists  toward  Darwinism,  I  think 
is  that  it  is  accepted  with  reservations.  There  is  a  certain  type  of  mind  which 
carries  it  too  far,  and  makes  it  odious.  But  the  principle  is  believed  in 
general'y.    It  is  the  great  fundamental  law  of  life." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  if  God  does  not  exist,  why  then  the 
need  of  any  ism  in  all  the  wide  world  ?  If  the  world  does  not  need 
I  will  say,  any  moral  life,  and  God  did  not  create  us,  why  then  con- 
tinue any  nonsense  along  that  line?  They  go  further  than  this  and 
many  ministers  tell  you  that  Jesus  Christ  is  a  fiction,  as  a  living  entity 
never  did  live;  that  the  Christ  story  is  only  a  beautiful  story  con- 
cocted for  whatever  end  it  might  serve.  So  they  have,  I  say,  a  form 
of  godliness,  but  they  deny  the  very  foundation  upon  which' it  rests 
and  must  rest.  I  thank  God  I  believe  in  Him  as  a  literal  tangible 
Being,  who  is  my  Father,  and  whose  child  I  am,  and  I  feel  that  I  can 
go  to  Him  in  all  of  my  anxieties,  if  I  would  go  in  the  true  spirit- 
and  I  can  get  salvation ;  I  can  get  help.  I  am"  thankful,  but  not  in 
the  spirit  of  the  Pharisee,  who  thanked  the  Lord  that  he  "was  not  as 
other  men,"  but  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  I  thank  the  Lord  that 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


123 


I  know  I  am  created  in  the  image  of  the  Lord,  my  Maker;  that  I 
know  that  Jesus  Christ  came  into  the  world,  and  was  and  is  the  Son 
of  God,  that  He  taught  wisdom  to  men,  whereby  they  may  be,  as  He 
has  again  been,  exalted  into  the  celestial  kingdom  of  our  Father  in 
heaven. 

Perhaps  I  would  not  have  spoken  in  this  vein,  had  it  not  been 
sounded  in  this  conference;  but  I  lift  my  voice  with  those  who  have 
spoken  in  this  conference,  and  those  who  are  crying,  "Repent,  ye 
nations  of  the  earth,  for  the  kingdom  of  God  is  at  hand." 

Do  I  fear  for  this  Church  that  has  been  established,  although  we 
are  surrounded  by  temptations  and  the  evils  of  the  world?  No.  But 
I  do  know  that  this  Church  was  established  in  these  last  days  on 
the  rock  of  revelation,  and  it  will  go  on  to  its  success.  And  I  do 
know  that  we  have  a  duty  incumbent  upon  us  to  tell  it  to  those  who 
do  not  see  as  we  see.  That  obligation  comes  with  the  knowledge  we 
have  of  the  gospel.  I  am  perfectly  positive  and  sure  that  the  Church 
will  go  on  to  ultimate  success  and  triumph.  The  only  fear  I  have 
is,  will  I  be  able  to  stay  with  it?  Will  I  be  able  to  keep  myself  clean 
and  unspotted  from  the  sins  of  the  world?  And  next  to  that,  will  my 
children,  surrounded  as  they  are  by  the  evils  and  temptations  of  the 
world,  be  able  to  keep  themselves  pure  and  clean  and  unspotted  from 
the  sins  of  the  world,  and  triumph  with  the  work  of  God? 
And,  next  to  that,  will  you,  and  particularly  your  children, 
be  able  to  do  likewise?  That  is  the  concern  I  have  for 
Israel.  After  that,  my  concern  is  to  gather  from  the  world  those  who 
are  honest  at  heart,  who  are,  like  ourselves,  our  Father's  children — 
millions  of  them  in  the  world ;  and  we  want  to  teach  them  the  way 
that  they  may  escape  calamities  that  will  come  upon  them,  if  they  do 
not  repent. 

Now,  is  this  promise  of  destruction  a  myth?  I  will  only  say 
that  its  fulfilment  or  non-fulfilment  depends  upon  this  people.  You 
will  find  in  the  words  of  Moroni,  that  the  Lord  will  destroy  the 
people  if  they  do  not  repent,  even  as  He  has  hitherto  done.  I  am  a 
witness.  As  I  have  traveled  over  the  valleys  of  Mexico  I  have  seen 
evidences  of  the  mighty  judgments  that  came  upon  the  people  of  a 
former  generation  that  have  lived  upon  this  land.  One  month  ago 
yesterday,  with  some  fellow  missionaries — perhaps  some  of  your  sons 
— I  stood  in  the  midst  of  a  majestic  ruined  city.  If  Salt  Lake  City 
were  to  be  ruined,  and  be  left  in  a  state  of  decomposition  for  as  long 
a  time  as  that  one  has  been,  it  would  leave,  in  comparison,  but  a  mere 
scratch  upon  the  land.  .  Those  were  a  mighty  people  that  have  built 
cities  that  are  wonderful  even  in  their  ruins  today.  I  stood  upon 
the  summit  of  a  mighty  building  in  that  city  of  Mexico,  covering 
more  ground  at  its  base  than  the  block  on  which  we  stand,  the  other 
day,  and  looked  as  far  as  I  could  see,  and  saw  the  mounds  of  that 
ruined  city.  They  were  a  cultured  people  and  highly  civilized  who 
had  built  that  city.    But  the  Book  of  Mormon  recounts  to  us  that 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


there  came  a  time  when  they  became  ripened  in  iniquity.  And  what 
did  God  do?  He  swept  them  off  the  land  as  completely  as  if  they 
had  never  been,  according  to  appearances  which  remain.  Will  he 
do  it  again?  My  knowledge  is,  that  he  will,  except  the  people  serve 
the  God  of  the  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ.  Therefore,  I  repeat  to  you 
that  there  lies  for  Israel,  aye  for  America,  no  other  way  of  safety 
but  in  keeping  and  living  the  commandments  of  God. 

This  is  the  Lord's  Church.  I  know  that  it  is  true.  Sometimes 
the  preaching  of  the  elders,  or  sometimes  even  the  word  of  the 
Savior,  incites  the  ill-will  of  those  who  cannot  see  just  exactly  as  we 
do.  I  wish  to  read  you  the  words  of  the  Savior  Himself  as  recorded 
in  the  15th  chapter  of  Matthew: 

"Then  came  to  Jesus  scribes  and  Pharisees;,  which  were  of  Jerusalem, 
saying,  Why  do  thy  disciples  transgress  the  tradition  of  the  elders?  For 
they  wash  not  their  hands  when  they  eat  bread.  But  he  answered  and 
said  unto  them,  Whyi  do  ye  also  transgress  the  commandment  of  God  by 
your  tradition?  For  God  commanded,  saying,  Honor  thy  father  and  mother: 
and,  He  that  curseth  father  and  mother,  let  him  die  the  death.  But  ye  say, 
Whosoever  shall  say  to  his  father  or  his  mother.  It  is  a  gift,  by  whatsoever 
thou  mightest  be  profited  by  me;  and  honor  not  his  father  or  his  mother,  he 
shall  be  free.  Thus  have  ye  made  the  commandment  of  God  of  none  effect 
by  your  tradition.  Ye  hypocrites;,  well  did  Esaias  prophesy  of  you  saying, 
This  people  draweth  nigh  unto  me  with  their  mouth  and  honoreth  me  with 
their  lips;  but  their  heart  is  far  from  me.  But  in  vain  they  do  worship  me, 
teaching  for  doctrines  the  commandments  of  men.  And  He  called  the 
multitude  and  said  unto  them,  Hear,  and  understand:  Not  that  which  goeth 
into  the  mouth  defileth  a  man;  but  that  which  cometh  out  of  the  mouth, 
this  defileth  a  man.  Then  came  his  disciples,  and  said  unto  Him,  Knowest 
thou  that  the  Pharisees  were  offended,  after  they  heard  this  saying?  But 
He  answered  and  said,  Every  plant  which  my  heavenly  Fr.ther  hath  not 
planted,,  shall  be  rooted  up.  Let  them  alone:  they  be  blind  leaders  of  the 
blind.    And  if  the  blind  lead  the  blind,  both  shall  fall  into  the  ditch." 

So  we  say,  that  every  plant  that  is  not  planted  of  our  heavenly 
Father  shall  be  by  Him  rooted  up.  And  what  care  we,  though  the 
world  scoff  and  scorn.  This  Church  has  been  nurtured  on  persecu- 
tion from  the  day  of  its  inception ;  and  if  it  brings  persecution  to 
declare  ihe  truth,  let  it  come,  for  our  duty  is  to  warn  the  world  and 
call    men  unto  repentance. 

Oh,  we  do  not  preach  that  all  men  are  lost.  There  are  none, 
so  far  as  we  know,  lost,  only  if  they  continue  to  do  evil.  Then  they 
will  be  lost.  But  today,  even  as  in  the  times  of  old,  the  Savior, 
through  His  disciples,  through  His  ministers,  through  His  mission- 
aries that  are  sent  into  the  world,  is  crying  to  the  world  to  come 
to  Him.  I  almost  fancy  I  can  hear  His  voice,  as  He  said  to  Jeru- 
salem :  "O  Jerusalem,  Jerusalem,  thou  that  killest  the  prophets,  and 
stonest  them  which  are  sent  unto  thee,  how  often  would  I  have  gath- 
ered thy  children  together,  even  as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chickens 
under  her  wings,  and  ye  would  not !  Behold,  your  house  is  left  unto 
you  desolate."  But  how  literally  has  that  promise  been  fulfilled  upon 
the  Jews.    They  still  have  an  opportunity,  but  they  have  no  oppor- 


ELDER  KEY  L.  PRATT 


125 


tunity  to  return,  save  by  the  road  of  repentance,  and  acknowledging 
Jesus  as  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  their  King  and  their 
Ruler  whom  they  have  to  look  upon  as  their  Lord  and  their  Savior. 

God  help  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  realize  our  true  position 
as  fathers  and  mothers  in  Zion,  to  teach  our  children  lessons  of  chas- 
tity, purity  and  truth,  that  they  may  know  how  to  pray  to  our 
Father  in  heaven ;  teach  them  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  of  life,  of 
health.  All  you  fathers  and  mothers,  get  close  to  your  boys  in  this 
age,  get  close  to  your  daughters,  and  know  where  they  are,  and  what 
they  are  doing,  for  man)'  times  they  suffer  by  coming  in  contact  with 
evil  and  ignorantly  embracing  it,  not  knowing  the  consequence ;  and 
the  responsibility  may  rest,  in  many  instances,  upon  the  father  or 
the  mother,  who  has  not  taken  proper  care  in  teaching  their  young 
folks.  It  is  a  time  when  men  want  wealth,  they  want  riches,  want 
commodities  and  comforts;  but,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  my  .concern 
is  not  so  much  for  these  things  as  for  the  eternal  truth,  and  those 
things  which  are  of  God,  for  our  true  and  proper  living.  These 
are  the  pearls  of  great  price.  They  are  greater  than  all  other  things 
given  to  man. 

May  God  help  us  to  fulfil  our  mission  and  destiny  upon  the 
earth  in  righteousness,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  NEPHI  JENSEN 

(Presidept  of  the  Canadian  Mission) 

I  sincerely  pray  in  my  heart,  that  the  Spirit  of  our  heavenly 
Father  shall  attend  me  and  give  me  utterance  while  I  stand  before 
you  this  afternoon.  I  appear  before  you  with  a  sense  of  humility  and 
obligation,  and  I  ask  you  to  pray  for  me,  that  I  shall  be  your  spokes- 
man, and  deliver  to  you  counsel  and  instructions  that  will  be  edifying 
to  you  as  well  as  myself. 

I  am  thankful,  with  all  my  heart,  for  membership  in  this  great 
Church.  I  am  thankful  for  the  opportunity  of  coming  here  from 
my  home  in  Eastern  Canada,  to  participate  with  you  in  the  worship 
of  our  Father.  I  am  thankful  for  the  impressions  and  inspiration 
that  have  come  to  my  heart  while  attending  the  sessions  of  this  great 
conference. 

We  think  it  is  stormy  here  at  the  present  time.  But  we  have 
had  a  storm  in  Toronto,  Canada,  recently  in  comparison  with  which 
our  storm  here  is  but  a  gentle  summer  zephyr.  We  have  had,  back 
there,  a  storm  of  agitation  against  this  people,  and  the  message  of 
truth  that  this  people  is  endeavoring  to  deliver  to  the  world. 

We  have  passed  through  a  fierce  storm  of  newspaper  agitation 
in  the  city  of  Toronto  during  the  last  few  weeks.  Through  it  all 
I  have  been  reminded  of  the  statement  of  the  great  Emerson,  that 
there  is  a  compensation  in  all  things.    I  noticed,  as  I  have  often 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


noticed  in  the  past,  that  when  men  commence  to  speak  against  us, 
they  very  frequently  unwittingly  bear  testimony  to  the  divinity  of 
this  great  work.  I  recall  an  incident  of  this  kind  some  years  ago. 
There  was  held,  as  I  now  remember,  in  the  state  of  Idaho,  in  the 
year  1908,  a  convention  of  the  Christian  Endeavorers.  One  of  the 
speakers  at  that  convention  was  Mr.  G.  W.  Barnes,  the  president  of 
the  association.  He  was  so  close  to  the  "Mormon"  territory  that  he 
could  not  quite  resist  the  temptation  to  throw  a  few  rocks  over  into 
the  state  of  Utah.  But  a  singular  thing  among  the  statements  he 
made  against  this  people  and  our  religion,  is  the  fact  that  he  unin- 
tentionally testified  of  the  vitality  and  the  fervor  of  spirit  which  are 
found  in  this  great  Church.  He  said,  "We  can  never  hope  to  crush 
'Mormonism'  until  we  have  a  zeal  equal  to  that  of  the  'Mormons.'  " 
I  have  often  wondered  why  any  minister  of  religion  should  have  a 
desire  in  his  heart  to  destroy  a  religion  which  plants  in  the  human 
heart  living  faith  in  the  living  God,  and  inspires  them  with  a  self- 
forgetting  zeal  that  sends  them  to  the  ends  of  the  world  to  testify 
of  the  great  things  of  our  God.  But,  singular  as  it  is,  it  is  never- 
theless a  fact  that  the  men  who  endeavor  to  bring  to  naught  the  pur- 
poses of  this-  great  work,  unwittingly  testify  of  the  greatness  of 
God's  Latter-day  kingdom. 

Another  instance  of  this  kind  came  to  my  attention  a  few  months 
ago  in  the  Dominion  of  Canada.  There  lives  up  there  in  our  country 
over  in  the  province  of  Saskatchewan  a  minister  of  a  Protestant 
church,  by  the  name  of  Toombs.  He  wrote  a  lengthy  pamphlet  against 
our  religion.  In  the  course  of  his  article  he  said  that  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  most 
wonderful.  He  became  even  more  superlative,  he  said:  "It  may  be 
even  said  to  be  perfect."  Shortly  after  the  publication  of  this  pamph- 
let, the  great  Anglican  church,  which  is  a  division  of  the  Church  of 
England,  deemed  it  necessary  to  put  out  a  pamphlet  against  the  pro- 
paganda of  our  Church  in  the  Dominion  of  Canada.  They  could 
find  nothing  that  suited  their  purpose  better  than  the  article  written 
by  Mr.  Toombs.  And  so  in  the  month  of  July,  1921,  the  great  Angli- 
can church  published  the  Toombs  article  as  its  Bulletin  No.  44,  against 
"Mormonism."  That  bulletin  contains  the  significant  statement  that 
the  "Mormon"  Church  "may  be  said  to  be  perfect."  When  I  read 
that  statement  in  that  bulletin,  I  felt  deeply  grateful  to  the  great 
Church  of  England.  I  have  felt  like  writing  them  a  letter,  thanking 
them  heartily  for  testifying  officially"  to  the  divinity  of  the  Church 
of  which  we  are  members.  For  this  bulletin  does  contain  a  very  im- 
pressive testimony  of  the  divinity  of  our  Church. 

We  have  always  been  led  to  believe  that  when  you  say  that  any- 
thing is  perfect,  it  is  equivalent  to  saying  that  it  is  divine.  If  we  were 
to  select  that  adjective  which  most  completely  describes  God's  attri- 
butes, we  would  select  the  adjective  "perfect."  God  is  perfect.  And 
that  which  he  establishes  in  the  world  is  perfect.    So  we  might  well 


ELDER  NEPHI  JENSEN 


127 


be  truly  thankful  in  our  hearts,  that  from  the  seats  of  the  mighty, 
men  are  commencing  to  testify,  even  though  it  be  unwittingly,  to  the 
divinity  of  this  great  work. 

Not  only  is  this  great  Church  of  ours  perfect  in  organization,  but 
there  is  in  it  also  the  perfect  Spirit  of  Jesus  Christ.  What  is  it  in 
the  ministry  of  the  Son  of  God  that  impresses  us  as  being  most  di- 
vine? All  of  you  would  say  that  it  is  His  great  spirit  of  self-sacrifice, 
And  so  it  is. 

Just  a  few  days  ago,  I  had  the  opportunity  of  attending  a  won- 
derful priesthood  meeting,  in  one  of  the  wards  of  this  city.  There 
were  present  at  this  priesthood  meeting  several  hundred  splendid  men 
of  all  ages  who  bear  the  Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God.  At  that  meet- 
ing a  number  of  men,  who  had  recently  been  called  to  go  out  into  the 
world  to  preach  the  gospel,  were  called  upon  to  speak  briefly.  I 
recall  distinctly  one  of  them.  He  was  a  German.  He  had  been  con- 
verted to  the  Church  in  far-away  Germany,  some  eight  or  nine  years 
ago.  This  plain  man  came  to  this  country  with  his  family.  Since 
his  arrival  here  he  has  been  pursuing  the  plain  occupation  of  a  laborer. 
Through  his  industry,  thrift  and  frugality,  he  has  been  able  to  save 
a  few  hundred  dollars.  Because  of  the  beautiful,  divine  spirit  of 
self-sacrifice  in  his  heart,  he  has  accepted  a  call  to  go  to  his  mother 
country  to  preach  the  gospel.  He  is  going  out  to  spend  the  money 
that  he  has  earned  by  hard  labor,  in  testifying  to  the  world  of  the 
-  restoration  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  want  you  to  know  that 
when  I  heard  that  plain  man's  testimony,  my  heart  thrilled  with  grati- 
tude because  I  was  a  member  of  that  Church  which  puts  this  splen- 
did, divine  spirit  of  self-sacrifice  into  the  hearts  of  men. 

There  is  in  this  great  Church  also  the  power  of  the  living  God. 
T  recall  today,  with  deep  emotion,  and  a  sense  of  gratitude,  thje 
blessing  which  came  to  me  on  the  first  Sunday  of  the  month  of  March 
this  year.  At  that  time  the  storm  of  agitation,  in  the  city  of  Toronto, 
had  reached  its  crest.  Because  of  the  strain  I  underwent  in  writing 
newspaper  articles  in  defense  of  our  people,  I  felt  that  a  nervous 
break-down  was  coming  upon  me.  I  requested  the  Saints  and  the 
members  of  the  Church  in  Toronto  to  fast  and  pray  for  me  the  first 
Sunday  in  the  month  of  March.  Before  our  good  people  had  con- 
cluded their  fast  on  that  day,  our  missionaries  came  to  the  Mission 
Home  and  held  a  prayer  circle  for  me.  While  these  young  men  and 
women  prayed  for  me,  my  flesh  quivered  all  over,  because  of  the 
power  of  God's  Spirit  which  came  upon  me.  One  of  my  companions, 
a  mere  boy,  scarcely  out  of  his  teens,  laid  his  hands  upon  my  head, 
and  said,  "You  shall  be  made  well  from  this  very  day."  I  can  testify 
today,  in  the  sincerity  and  gratitude  of  my  heart,  that  those  words 
came  to  me  by  the  voice  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  I  can  testify  moreover 
that  my  heavenly  Father  has  remembered  those  words,  and  made 
them  true  in  my  life.  God  be  praised  for  His  goodness  and  kindness 
to  me.    With  all  my  heart  I  thank  my  heavenly  Father,  that  I  belong 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  this  great  organization.  With  all  my  heart  I  thank  him  that  I 
have  had  the  opportunity  of  spending  six  years  of  my  short  life  on 
the  firing  line  of  truth,  telling  the  people  of  the  marvelous  things  God 
has  wrought  in  our  day  and  time. 

I  know  that  there  is  in  this  great  Church  the  spirit  and  power  of 
God.  I  know  that  outside  of  this  wonderful  organization  there  is  no 
peace,  but  chaos,  confusion,  destruction  and  misery.  It  is  good  to  be 
in  the  house  of  God  in  these  days  of  strife  and  turmoil.  Let  us  re- 
member, in  sincere  humility  and  deep  gratitude,  the  goodness  of  our 
heavenly  Father  to  us,  in  committing  to  us  these  great  riches,  these 
great  graces  and  powers  which  are  found  in  this  Church. 

God  help  us  to  walk  through  this  life  with  bowed  heads  and 
broken  hearts.  God  help  us  to  trust  in  Him,  and  hold  fast  to  the  iron 
rod,  that  through  His  mercy  and  His  power,  we  shall  receive  salvation 
and  exaltation  in  His  kingdom,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  HEBER  C.  IVERSON 

(President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission.) 

Two  thoughts  expressed  by  our  beloved  President  in  his  opening 
address,  and  emphasized  by  nearly  every  speaker  who  has  followed, 
are  these :  A  call  to  repentance  and  greater  diligence  in  keeping  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord,  and  an  appreciation  of  changed  condi- 
tions in  which  our  motives  and  the  results  of  our  efforts  are  better 
understood  and  are  bringing,  forth  merited  praise. 

Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  in  the  past  we  have  been,  and  at 
present  are  being,  basely  misrepresented,  yet  the  light  of  truth  has 
pierced  the  darkness,  and  many  honest-in-heart  are  beginning  to  recog- 
nize us  as  we  are  and  not  as  we  have  been  falsely  reputed  to  be. 
Among  those  who  have  been  thus  favorably  impressed  with  our 
achievements,  the  fruits  of  the  gospel,  are  men  of  eminence.  You  who 
were  present  at  the  opening  session  of  this  conferenc  heard  the  words 
of  three  distinguished  visitors  who  spoke  on  that  occasion.  These  are 
three  educators  of  high  standing  who  spoke ;  one,  Doctor  Carver, 
of  Harvard  University,  Professor  of  Political  Economy,  who  said  in 
substance  that  were  he  looking  for  a  people  among  whom  the  pro- 
cesses were  going  on  under  which  a  great  nation  is  built,  among  the 
Latter-Day  Saints  is  the  one  place  in  the  world  where  one  can  see  this 
in  operation  in  the  field  itself.  The  other  two  noted  scholars,  Doctor 
Clark,  President  of  the  University  of  Nevada,  and  Doctor  Lory,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Agricultural  College  of  Colorado,  spoke  also  in  terms  of 
high  commendation  and  praise. 

A  book  which  has  recently  been  written  by  one  William  E.  Smith, 
which  book  bears  the  title,  City  Homes  on  Country  Lanes,  has  much 
to  say  of  the  "Mormon"  Colonization  experiences.  Among  other  state- 
ments the  following  appears:  "Utah  is  a  monument  to  leadership — 
to  a  quality  of  leadership  that  has  been  creative  and  inspiring.  This 


ELDER  HEBER  C.  IVERSON 


129 


leadership  has  been  generally  attributed  to  the  'Mormon'  Church, 
and  justly  so.  It  is  often  said,  'Yes,  the  Church  could  do  it  but 
nobody  else  could  do  it.'  "  It  is  a  shallow  remark,  based  on  the  most 
superficial  knowledge  of  "Mormon"  institutions.  Leadership  is 
leadership,  and  great  as  is  the  "Mormon"  Church,  it  is  a  very  small 
thing  when  compared  to  the  government  of  the  United  States. 

The  writer  appears  unconscious  of  the  secret  of  this  superior 
leadership.  He  seems  to  think  it  lies  in  the  kind  of  form  of  organi- 
zation, and  is  unconscious  of  the  real  source  of  power  whence  it  eman- 
ates. 

Doctor  Thomas  Bicknell,  for  many  years  president  of  the  Nation- 
al Education  Association,  great  writer  and  philanthropist,  after  pay- 
ing high  tribute  to  the  educational  achievements  of  our  people,  con- 
cludes his  statement  with  these  splendid  words :  "The  vitality  and 
force  of  all  societies  and  organizations  founded  on  Christianity  lies 
in  the  self-sacrifice  of  its  adherents.  No  other  church,  no  other  or- 
ganization, can  produce  such  manifestations  of  self-sacrifice  as  that 
shown  in  the  'Mormon'  missionary  system." 

Our  missionary  system  is  truly  a  source  of  power,  a  marvelous 
work  and  a  wonder.  You  may  recall  the  words  of  the  Lord  to  the 
prophet  Isaiah  recorded  in  the  29th  chapter  of  the  book  bearing  his 
name,  in  which  the  Lord  foretells  the  coming  forth  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  Following  this  wonderful  prediction  He  says,  "For  inas- 
much as  this  people  draw  near  me  with  their  mouth  and  with  their 
lips  do  honor  me,  but  have  removed  their  hearts  far  from  me,  and 
their  fear  toward  me  is  taught  by  the  precepts  of  men,  therefore  I 
will  proceed  to  do  a  marvelous  work  among  this  people,  even  a  marve- 
lous work  and  a  wonder,  for  the  wisdom  of  their  wise  men  shall  per- 
ish, and  the  understanding  of  their  prudent  men  shall  be  hid." 

From  the  midst  of  the  deep  distress,  following  the  terrible  world 
happenings  of  the  past  few  years,  men  are  crying  for  superior,  aye, 
for  inspired  leadership,  because  they  have  come  to  recognize  the  fact 
that  human  wisdom  is  wholly  inadequate  to  solve  the  mighty  problems 
of  the  present  and  future,  and  herein  we  see  the  fulfilment  of  the 
Lord's  words  I  have  just  quoted  from  Isaiah.  The  wisdom  of  the 
worldly  wise  has  perished,  come  to  naught,  and  the  understanding  of 
their  prudent  men  is  hid  in  overwhelming  uncertainty  and  distress. 

Many  eminent  characters  have  spoken  in  high  praise  of  the 
fruits  of  "Mormonism"  and  many  popular  magazine  writers,  within 
the  recent  past,  have  written  very  complimentary  articles  concerning 
our  people.  In  'fact  it  appears  they  are  vieing  with  one  another  in 
declaring  our  virtues.  I  fear  that  herein  lies  great  danger  to  us  for 
we  are  but  human  and  liable  to  think  ourselves  great,  forgetting  the 
source  of  our  strength,  the  secret  of  our  greatness.  Here  the  words 
of  Apostle  Paul  are  apropos,  he  says: 

"I  knew  a  man  in  Christ  above  fourteen  years  ago  (whether  in  the 
body,  I  cannot  tell,  or  whether  out  of  the  body,  I  cannot  tell;  God  knoweth;) 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


such  an  one  caught  up  to  the  third  heaven.  And  I  knew  such  a  man, 
(whether  in  the  body,  or  out  of  the  body,  I  cannot  tell:  God  knowfcth;) 
how  that  he  was  caught  up  into  paradise,  and  heard  unspeakable  words,, 
which  it  is  not  lawful  for  a  man  to  utter.  Of  such  an  one  will  I  glory: 
yet  of  myself  I  will  not  glory,  but  in  mine  infirmities.  For  though  I  would 
desire  to  glory,  I  shall  not  be  a  fool ;  for  I  will  say  the  truth :  but  now  b 
forbear,  lest  any  man  should  think  of  me  above  that  which  he  seeth  me  to 
be,  or  that  he  heareth  of  me.  And  lest  I  should  be  exalted  above  measure 
through  the  abundance  of  the  revelations,  there  was  given  to  me  a  thorn 
in  the  flesh,  the  messenger  of  Satan  'to  buffet  me,  lest  I  should  be  exalted 
ajbove  measure.  For  this  thing  I  besought  the  Lord  thrice,  that  it  might 
depart  from  me.  And  He  said  unto  me,  My  grace  is  sufficient  for  thee : 
for  my  strength  is  made  perfect  in  weakness.  Most  gladly  therefore  will 
I  rather  glory  in  my  infirmities,  that  the  power  of  Christ  may  rest  upon  me." 

Whatever  strength  or  power  we  possess  has  its  foundation  in 
humility  and  devotion.  The  greatest  among  us  are  always  the  most 
humble.  Among  the  many  glorious  sayings  of  the  Master  is  this: 
"He  that  would  be  greatest  among  you,  let  him  be  servant  of  all." 
In  a  revelation  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  found  in  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  section  121,  the  Lord  reveals  in  plainness  the 
source  of  real  power,  the  path  to  true  greatness  and  glory.  Speaking 
of  the  holy  Priesthood,  which  is  the  power  of  God  delegated  to  man 
he  says: 

"Behold,  there  are  many  called  but  few  are  chosen.  And  why  are  they 
not  chosen?  Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  much  upon  the  things  of  this 
world"  and  aspire  to  the  honors  of  men,  that  they  do  not  learn  this  one 
lesson — That  the  rights  of  the  Priesthood  are  inseparably  connected  with 
the  powers  of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of  heaven  cannot  be  con- 
trolled nor  handled  only  upon  the  principles  of  righteousness.  That  they 
may  be  conferred  upon  us,  it  is  true;  but  when  we  undertake  to  cover  our 
sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride^  our  vain  ambition,  or  to  exercise  control,  or 
dominion,  or  compulsion,,  upon  the  souls  of  the  children  of  men,  in  any 
degree  of  unrighteousness,  behold,  the  heavens  withdraw  themselves;  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  grieved;  and  when  it  is  withdrawn,  Amen  to  the 
Priesthood  or  the  authority  of  that  man.  Behold!  ere  he  is  aware  he  is 
left  unto  himself,  to  kick  against  the  pricks;  to  persecute  the  Saints,  and  to 
fight  against  God.  We  have  learned,  by  sad  experience,  that  it  is  the  nature 
and  disposition  of  almost  all  men,  as  soon  as  they  get  a  little  authority,  as 
they  suppose,  they  will  immediately  begin  to  exerice  unrighteous  dominion. 
Hence  many  are  called,,  but  few  are  chosen.  No  power  or  influence  can  or 
'ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the  priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by 
long-suffering,  by  gentleness,  and  meekness,  and  by  love  unfeigned;  by 
kindness,  and  pure  knowledge,  which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the  soul  without 
hypocrisy  and  without  guile,  reproving  betimes  with  sharpness,  when  moved 
upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  then  showing  forth  afterwards  an  increase 
of  love  toward  him  whom  thou  hast  reproved,  lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be 
his  enemy;  that  he  may  know  that  thy  faithfulness  is  stronger  than  the 
cords  of  death;  let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men,  and 
Ito  the  household  of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly, 
then  shall  thy  confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God,  and  the  doc- 
trine of  the  Priesthood  shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews  from  heaven. 
The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  constant  companion,  and  thy  scepter  an 
unchanging  scepter  of  righteousness  and  truth,  and  thy  dominion  shall  be 


ELDER  HEBER  C.  IVERSON 


131 


an  everlasting  dominion,  and  without  compulsory  means  it  shall  flow  unto 
thee  forever  and  ever." 

Here  we  discover  the  source  and  secret  of  whatever  real  power 
or  greatness  we  possess,  the  manner  in  which  it  may  be  obtained,  and 
the  manner  in  which  it  may  be  lost.  The  most  destructive  of  all 
agencies  is  selfishness ;  such  as  inspired  the  rebellion  in  heaven,  and 
which  manifests  itself  in  a  lesser  degree  in  a  thousand  different 
ways  by  mortals  on  earth.  One  of  the  most  common  expressions 
of  selfishness  is  the  one  against  Which  the  Lord  sounds  a  signifi- 
cant warning.  I  fear  that,  too  frequently,  we  consider  what  our 
efforts  in  this  work  will  mean  by  way  of  "honors  of  'men/'  of 
self  glorification;  if  so,  we  violate  the  spirit  of  this  revelation,  and  St 
is  truly  Amen  and  Amen  to  our  power  and  Priesthood.  The  Lord  has 
said,  "Whsoever  shall  exalt  himself  shall  be  abased,  and  he  that  shall 
humble  himself  shall  be  exalted."  Again,  "Whosoever  will  lose  his 
life,  for  my  sake  and  the  gospel,  shall  find  it."  I  take  it  that  these 
words  are  equivalent  to  saying  that  whosoever  will  lose  self  in  the 
Lord's  great  cause,  consecrate  every  energy  of  his  being,  every  sym- 
pathy ot  his  soul,  to  its  up-building,  and,  that  with  an  eye  single  to 
the  glory  of  God,  shall  find  eternal  life  in  His  kingdom. 

"Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men  and 

let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly  then  shall  the  Holy 

Ghost  be  thy  constant  companion."  What  a  glorious  possession  to  have 
the  Holy  Ghost  as  a  constant  companion.  This  Divine  companionship 
is  wholly  contingent  upon  our  absolute  chastity  of  mind  and  charity 
of  soul. 

How  timely  these  instructions,  "let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts 
unceasingly,"  for  the  world  is  truly  in  the  midst  of  a  veritable  mael- 
strom of  immorality.  During  the  past  decade,  especially  since  the  great 
world  war,  there  has  been  a  decided  weakening  of  moral  fibre  through- 
out the  world. 

In  conclusion,  may  I  repeat  some  ringing  words  spoken  this  morn- 
ing to  the  officers  of  the  Y.  M.  M.  I.  A.  by  our  worthy  General  Super- 
intendent George  Albert  Smith.  Speaking  of  our  moral  standard  he 
declared  that  second  only  to  murder  is  unchastity.  He  also  repeated 
some  very  impressive  words  spoken  to  him  in  his  boyhood  days  by 
his  illustrious  father.  His  father  said,  "Son,  if  an  evil-minded  man 
were  to  come  into  your  home  for  the  purpose  of  assaulting  your 
mother  or  sister,  you  would  protect  her  honor,  her  virtue,  with  your 
life.  And  just  so,  I  would  have  you  defend  the  honor  and  virtue  of 
every  other  woman,  for  she  is  the  daughter  of  some  father  and  mother, 
and  the  sister  of  some  man." 

May  virtue  garnish  our  thoughts  unceasingly  that  we  may  be- 
queath to  posterity  a  most  wholesome  influence,  and  if  possible,  a 
definite  disposition  toward  a  positive  disapproval  of  all  that  is  inde- 
cent and  immoral,  whether  upon  the  movie  screen,  in  literature,  in 
music,  or  in  dress,  for  it  is  everywhere  to  be  found.    It  is  Satan's 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


trump  card,  and  should  these  demoralizing  agencies  succeed  as  he 
hopes  they  will,  inevitable  destruction  will  come  to  individuals  and 
nations  who  abandon  themselves  to  his  vices. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  maintain  the  high  moral  standards 
vouchsaved  unto  us  by  our  faithful  parents,  that  we  may  be  among 
the  Saviors  on  Mount  Zion,  not  alone  in  this  our  beloved  na- 
tion but  throughout  the  world,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "The  Heavens  are  telling." 

ELDER  GEORGE  W.  McCUNE 

(President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission.) 

I  have  sat  in  fear  and  trembling  so  far  throughout  every  session 
of  this  Conference  lest  I  might  be  given  this  opportunity  of  talking 
to  you,  and  then  to  come  to  this  final  session  knowing  that  I  would 
be  expected  to  talk,  and  here  be  compelled,  by  our  beloved  brother, 
President  Bennion,  to  keep  silent  until  the  last,  has  almost  made  a 
nervous  wreck  of  me.  Therefore,  I  beg  of  you,  brethren  and  sisters, 
sustain  me  by  your  faith  and  prayers  that  I  may  say  nothing  which 
will  mar  the  sweet  spirit  which  has  prevailed  throughout  our  entire 
Conference.  I  know  that  we  have  been  blest  of  the  Lord  with  a  rich 
portion  of  His  Holy  Spirit,  without  which  we  could  not  be  fed  with 
the  bread  of  life. 

Many  great  truths  have  been  spoken  upon  during  the  various  ses- 
sions of  this  Conference  and  I  desire  to  say  a  hearty  amen  to  all  of 
them,  and  for  one  I  have  a  sincere  desire  in  my  heart  to  try  and  carry 
out  in  my  daily  life  these  valuable  instructions  given  by  our  leaders. 

One  of  our  visiting  educators,  I  think  it  was  Dr.  Clark,  of  the 
University  of  Nevada,  who  visited  the  first  session  of  our  Conference 
in  the  Tabernacle,  Thursday  morning,  made  a  statement  to  the  effect 
that  science  did  not  satisfy  the  soul  of  man  and  that  it  was  essential 
that  we  keep  our  souls  open  and  susceptible  to  spiritual  instruction, 
in  order  that  we  may  have  soul  satisfaction,  and  I  know  that  this  is 
true,  and  that  the  sincere  seekers  for  truth,  the  world  over,  are  fast 
finding  it  out.  Scientific  facts  or  truths  which  have  been  established 
beyond  question  do  not  disagree  with  revealed  religion,  and  they  are 
good,  and  we  accept  them,  because  all  truth  is  a  part  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  but  scientific  theories  are  not  truths,  and  may  at  any 
time  be  overthrown  by  the  establishment  of  truth.  Scientific  theories 
are  one  thing  today  but  may  be  quite  a  different  thing  tomorrow; 
hence,  they  do  not  satisfy  the  soul  which  hungers  and  thirsts  for 
truth. 

During  a  recent  visit  to  our  Boston  conference  we  were  favored 
with  the  presence  of  one  of  our  leading  scientists,  Professor  Ralph 


ELDER  GEORGE  W.  McCUNE 


133 


Chamberlin,  formerly  at  the  University  of  Utah,  but  now  holding  an 
important  position  in  the  great  Harvard  University,  who  gave  us  a 
wonderful  talk,  during  which  he  made  a  similar  statement  to  the  one 
mentioned  before,  to  the  effect  that  all  his  labors  and  reserches 
in  the  laboratories  of  science,  while  very  interesting,  and  to  a  great 
extent  satisfying  to  the  intellect,  did  not  satisfy  the  soul  of  man,  and 
that  he  yearned  for  something  more.  He  bore  a  beautiful  testimony  to 
this  effect,  adding  that  he  felt  in  this  meeting  a  spirit  which  was  soul- 
satisfying  and  bore  testimony  that  he  knew  that  ours  is  the  true 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  when  we  were  baptized  into  this 
Church  and  received  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  we  were  given  a 
most  wonderful  blessing,  which,  if  cultivated  and  developed,  will 
prove  to  be  the  source  through  which  the  soul  may  be  fed  and  satis- 
fied, but  it  must  be  kept  in  tune  to  the  great  broadcasting  station  from 
whence  all  messages  of  uplift  and  good  cheer  are  sent.  Two  weeks 
ago  today  I  had  the  pleasure  of  dining  with  Brother  David  P.  Howells 
and  his  family  in  New  York.  Perhaps  many  of  you  know  Brother 
Howells.  He  formerly  lived  in  Salt  Lake  City,  and  is  one  of  our 
very  successful  young  men,  who  by  his  course  in  life,  is  preaching 
the  gospel  daily  to  all  with  whom  he  Gome's  in  contact,  because  he 
follows  out  in  his  daily  life  the  teachings  of  the  gospel  to  a  very 
great  degree.  After  dinner  had  been  served  Brother  Howells  invited 
us  into  the  living  room  where  he  showed  us  the  wireless  telephone  in- 
strument which  had  recently  been  installed  in  his  home,  beside  which 
was  a  program  telling  of  the  various  messages  of  interest  which  would 
be  broadcasted  at  certain  hours  of  each  day  from  the  central  station. 
Brother  Howells  preceded  to  make  some  slight  adjustments  by  turning 
certain  keys  to  the  right  or  to  the  left,  as  he  found  it  necessary,  in 
order  to  put  this  instrument  in  strict  tune  to  the  central  station.  When 
this  had  been  accomplished,  behold  beautiful  strains  of  music  burst 
forth  in  the  room,  very  much  clearer  than  the  ordinary  music  box 
in  which  there  is  some  metallic  sound.  It  was  not  necessary  for  each 
one  in  the  room  to  have  something  to  their  ears,  but  all  could  hear 
distinctly  the  sweet  strains  of  music  which  were  being  played  at  the 
broadcasting  station  some  twenty-two  miles  distant.  This,  of  course, 
is  a  marvelous  accomplishment  of  man's  and  I  could  not  help  comparing 
it  with  the  divine  instrument  God  placed  in  each  and  every  one  of 
His  children  entering  into  the  world — an  instrument  which  if  kept 
in  tune  with  our  Father's  Kingdom  will  bring  to  its  possessor  rich 
messages  of  love,  encouragement,  patience,  gentleness,  meekness,  kind- 
liness and  all  the  virtues  and  fruits  of  the  gospel  of  our  Redeemer. 
We  might  make  a  comparison  of  these  matters  at  great  length  but 
suffice  it  to  say,  my  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  divine  in- 
strument within  us  is  even  more  sensitive  than  the  wireless  telephone, 
it  will  easily  be  put  out  of  tune  by  sin,  either  through  acts  of  com- 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


mission  or  omission.  The  little  keys  referred  to  on  the  wireless  in-> 
strument  which  Brother  Howells  turned  to  the  right  or  to  the  left  in 
order  to  put  the  wireless  instrument  in  tune  with  the  great  broadcasting 
station  may  be  compared  to  the  principles  of  the  gospel  which,  if  ad- 
hered to,  will  put  us  in  strict  tune  with  our  Father's  Kingdom,  and 
should  we  find  our  instrument  made  discordant  through  sin,  as  in- 
dicated above,  we  can  always  turn  to  the  glorious  principle  of  re- 
pentance, of  which  we  have  heard  so  much  throughout  this  entire  Con- 
ference, and  if  we  sincerely  repent  of  our  wrong  doing,  having  com- 
plied with  the  other  ordinances  of  the  gospel,  our  Father  in  heaven 
will  accept  of  our  repentance  and  forgive  our  sins. 

I  want  to  heartily  approve  of  what  our  brethren  have  said  re- 
garding this  great  principle  of  repentance.  It  is  a  fact  that  repentance 
is  a  gift  of  God  and,  as  stated  by  our  beloved  President  Penrose, 
there  is  a  possibility  of  sinning  away  the  time  of  repentance,  for  the 
Spirit  of  God  will  not  always  strive  with  man.  It  is  indeed  a  sad 
spectacle  to  see  one  of  our  companions  or  associates  who  has  been 
faithful  for  many  years,  fall  by  the  way  side,  but,  my  dear  brethren 
and  sisters,  it  is  a  sadder  sight  to  see  one  of  such  incapable  of  laying 
hold  of  this  glorious  principle  of  repentance,  to  find  him  lifted  up 
in  pride  and  justifying  His  actions.  I  say  this  is  a  far  more  serious 
condition  than  the  fact  of  our  sinning,  because,  as  I  have  indicated 
already,  our  sins  shall  be  forgiven  through  the  glorious  principle  of 
repentance,  but  if  we  halve  not  lived  or  acquired  this  gift  of  God, 
there  is  no  avenue  through  which  our  sins  can  be  forgiven,  we  will 
go  on  through  life  justifying  ourselves  and  thus  sinning  away  the 
time  of  repentance.  Now,  we  need  to  teach  this  principle  in  our 
homes.  All  great  movements  and  reformations  must  begin  at  the  fire- 
side. We  must  put  our  own  house  in  order  first,  then  we  can,  with 
good  grace,  cry  repentance  to  the  world. 

In  the  remarks  of  President  Ivins,  we  heard  regarding  condi- 
tions throughout  the  world  as  to  disrespect  for  law  and  order  which 
are  indeed  appalling;  as  Latter-day  Saints  we  must  be  zealous  in 
guarding  against  such  evils.  The  most  effective  way,  in  my  estima- 
tion, to  guard  against  evil  will  be,  first,  to  show  by  our  actions  abso- 
lute respect  for  all  constituted  authority  in  our  conversation  and  in 
our  lives,  not  only  the  ecclesiastical  authorities,  the  authorities  in 
our  Church,  but  all  c  onstituted  authority ;  municipal,  state,  or  national, 
let  us  learn  the  joy  of  upholding  and  sustaining  them.  Do  not  let  us 
be  guilty  of  indulging  in  destructive  criticism.  Someone  has  said, 
we  must  first  learn  to  obey  orders  before  we  attempt  to  give  orders. 
We  must  certainly  learn  to  first  uphold  authority.  I  for  one  certainly 
intend  to  take  to  heart  these  splendid  instructions  and  go  from  this 
Conference  with  a  greater  determination  to  repent  of  my  sins  if  I 
have  been  guilty  of  showing  any  disrespect  for  constituted  authoritv. 
I  have  learned  to  love  the  brethren  of  the  Church,  those  who  preside 


ELDER  GEORGE  W.  McCUNE 


over  us,  and  I  find'  great  joy  and  satisfaction  in  honoring  and  sus- 
taining them  and  I  also  find  a  feeling  of  genuine  pride  in  seeking 
for  and  talking  about  the  good  acts  of  our  civil  authorities.  On  the 
other  hand,  I  always  feel  a  sort  of  unworthiness  if  I  have  indulged 
in  unjust  criticism  of  any  constituted  authority.  Someone  has  said 
of  our  people,  that  we  are  like  the  blind  leading  the  blind,  and  yet  it 
is  a  fact  that  within  our  Church  there  is  the  greatest  opportunity  for 
individual  development. 

This  Church  organization  is  designed  to  develop  and  cultivate 
the  talents  of  each  and  every  individual  in  it,  and  it  will  do  so  to  the 
extent  that  such  individuals  will  respond  to  the  opportunities  af- 
forded them  and  respond  to  responsibilities  placed  upon  them.  In  the 
the  various  organizations  of  man.  it  is  the  custom  to  have  a  select 
few  designated  to  do  the  thinking,  preaching,  speaking,  writing,  and 
so  forth,  hut  this  is  not  the  case  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  Our 
heavenly  Father  instructs  each  and  every  one  of  His  children  how  to 
live  their  individual  lives  and  make  the  most  of  their  opportunities.  Now 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  these  deplorable  conditions  of  disrespect  for 
law  and  order  and  morahty  are  of  the  world,  and  we  are  in  the 
world  and  must  be  prepared  to  fight  and  withstand  the  onslaught  of 
Satan's  hosts  for  he  will  tempt  our  young  people  and  lead  them  away 
in  the  most  alluring  fashion.  While  we  are  far  from  perfection  I  am 
indeed  happy  to  know  that  we  are  above  most  of  the  world  morally 
and  I  hope  we  shall  continue  to  maintain  this  lead  and  improve  upon 
it.  The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  revealed  to  Joseph  Smith  in  latter 
days  has  certainly  given  to  the  world  high  ideals  for  their  salvation,  not 
only  morally  but  intellectually  and  physically  as  well  as  spiritually. 

I  will  relate  a  little  incident  which  happened  in  Utah  during  the 
recent  war,  which  illustrates  to  my  mind  the  status  of  Latter-day 
Saints  morally.  When  our  splendid  young  men  were  being  called  to 
the  Colors  there  was  a  good  mother  who  accompanied  her  son  to  the 
railroad  station  to  bid  him  farewell.  Just  before  the  departure  of 
the  train,  on  which  this  young  man  must  leave  home,  his  mother 
looked  him  straght  in  the  eye  and  said,  "My  boy,  your  country  has 
called  you  into  service.  I  want  you  to  go  like  a  man  and  do  your 
full  duty.  Honor  and  respect  those  who  are  in  command.  Be  faith- 
ful to  every  trust  placed  upon  you,  and  if  your  country  shall  require 
your  life,  be  . a  man  and  give  the  same,  for  I  could  stand  to  see  you 
come  home  in  a  box  if  it  should  be  necessary.  God  grant  that  it  will 
not  be,  but  there  is  one  thing  I  want  you  to  promise  me.  I  could  not 
stand  it  to  have  you  come  home  contaminated  with  the  sins  of  the 
world.  Therefore,  I  want  you  to  come  back  to  me  clean,  or  come  back 
not  at  all." 

I  believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  is  the  sentiment  of  all 
Latter-day  Saints.  We  have  all  been  taught  from  infancy  that  it  is 
better  to  lose  our  lives  than  to  lose  our  virtue  and  chastity.    We  can 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


not  get  away  from  these  fundamental  principles  of  morality,  and  it 
behooves  the  younger  generation  to  instil  the  same  integrity  into  the 
hearts  of  our  children  as  did  our  fathers  and  mothers  before  us.  If 
we  can  but  live  this  one  principle  of  the  gospel,  the  principle  of  moral- 
ity, and  live  it  strictly,  through  this  great  law  we  shall  be  able  to 
redeem  the  world,  but  should  we  fail  to  stand  apart  from  the  world 
in  this  respect,  history  will  repeat  itself  upon  us,  as  well  as  the  rest 
of  the  world,  which  shows  that  when  a  people  become  immoral,  they 
degenerate,  and  destruction  is  inevitable.  Let  us  go  from  this  Con- 
ference, my  brethren  and  sisters,  with  a  determination  in  our  hearts 
to  live  better  lives  and  to  seek  the  Lord  in  mighty  prayer  that  we 
may  have  wisdom  to  teach  our  children  the  principles  of  morality,  and 
impress  them  upon  their  minds  so  that  they  will  feel  that  it  is  better 
to  lose  their  lives  than  to  lose  their  virtue.  It  is  a  difficult  task  to 
rear  our  children  to  be  different  from  their  neighbors,  but  we  must 
try  earnestly  to  keep  them  from  indulging  in  the  excesses  of  the  world. 
Some  of  the  brethren  have  mentioned  during  the  Conference  the  evils 
of  modern  dress.  I  feel  that  it  is  the  extremes  that  harm  and  are 
not  proper.  We  are  taught  to  be  a  moderate  people  in  all  things  and 
this  applies  to  dress,  to  our  eating,  to  our  language  and  all  our  conduct 
in  life.  There  is  indeed  a  great  responsibility  upon  us  and  I  sincerely 
pray  that  we  will  be  equal  to  the  occasion  and  not  fall  into  the  sin 
of  indifference  as  regards  the  duties  of  life.  This  is  the  greatest  evil 
we  have  to  contend  with ;  the  sin  of  indifference.  It  is  appalling  to 
find  the  condition  of  the  world  as  regards  their  attitude  toward  re- 
ligion and  toward  our  duties  in  life.  We  ought  to  realize  full  well, 
my  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  "Life  is  real,  life  is  earnest,  and  the  grave 
is  not  its  goal.  Dust  thou  art,  to  dust  returnest  was  not  spoken  of  the 
soul."  There  is  much  for  us  to  do,  every  moment  is  precious  and  we 
are  all  hastening  on  to  the  end.  "Our  hearts,  though  strong  and  brave, 
still  like  muffled  drums  are  beating  funeral  marches  to  the  grave.  We 
know  not  when  the  end  will  come  but  we  know  it  will  come  in  due 
time,  and  great  will  be  our  joy  and  satisfaction  if  we  have  striven 
hard  to  learn  the  purpose  of  our  being  here  in  mortal  life,  and  of  try- 
ing to  magnify  the  same  to  the  satisfaction  of  our  heavenly  Father. 

I  was  deeply  impressed  by  the  sweet  rendition  by  the  choir  of  the 
beautiful  anthem,  based  upon  the  scriptural  reference,  wherein  the 
Savior  said :  "Come  unto  me,  all  ye  that  labor  and  are  heavy  laden, 
and  I  will  give  you  rest,"  and  wherein,  He  went  on  to  say,  "For  my 
yoke  is  easy,  and  my  burden  is  light."  My  dear  brethren  and  sisters, 
I  know  that  if  we  accept  the  gospel  of  our  Redeemer  with  full  purpose 
of  heart,  and  live  up  to  its  teachings  with  faith  in  God,  we  shall  find 
the  words  of  the  Savior  to  be  true  and  correct  that  His  yoke  is  easy 
to  bear  and  that  His  burden  is  light. 

I  earnestly  pray  that  God  will  bless  you  all  that  we  may  try  earn- 


ELDER  GEORGE  W.  McCUNE 


137 


estly  to  understand  the  purpose  of  life  and  seek  to  magnify  our  duties 
to  the  very  best  of  our  ability,  and  I  humbly  pray  for  this  blessing  in 
behalf  of  all  of  us,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

(President  of  the  Central  States  Mission.) 

Only  those  who  stand  before  great  audiences  like  this  can  feel 
what  it  means  to  occupy  the  time  of  the  meeting.  One  is  always  re- 
minded that  the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  those  who  are  assigned 
any  duties  in  this  Church  is  great,  and  that  unless  the  Lord  comes  to 
to  rescue  these  duties  cannot  be  adequately  discharged. 

I  have  been  much  impressed  at  this  conference,  I  think  more 
than  ever  before,  by  the  fact  of  the  divine  appointment  of  the  leaders 
of  this  Church.  I  think  I  have  never  recognized  more  fully  the  pow- 
er, the  inspiration,  that  rests  upon  the  President  of  this  Church  and 
his  counselors,  and  the  twelve  apostles,  men  who  have  been  appointed 
and  ordained  in  the  time  in  which  we  live,  to  lead  Latter-day  Israel.  It 
is  to  me  a  great  testimony,  to;  listen  to  the  inspired!  doctrine  and  teach- 
ings of  Christ,  manifested  through  these  men. 

I  have  been  reminded  of  two  or  three  passages  of  scripture  per- 
taining to  our  pre-mortal  state.  The  Lord,  in  speaking  to  Jeremiah, 
as  recorded  in  the  first  chapter,  told  him  that  before  he  was  born 
he  knew  him,  and  ordained  him  a  prophet  unto  the  nations.  In  the 
Pearl  of  Great  Price,  we  find  more  scripture  which  proves  the  divine 
appointment  of  men  who  take  part  in  the  administration  of  God's  work 
in  the  earth. 

The  Lord  revealed  unto  Abraham  some  things  pertaining  to  us 
in  this  life,  and  in  the  language  of  Abraham  I  read : 

"Now  the  Lord  has  shown  unto  me,  Abraham,  the  intelligences  that 
were  organized  before  the  world  was,  and  among  all  these  were  many  of 
the  noble  and  great  ones;  And  God  saw  these  souls  that  they  were  good,, 
and  He  stood  in  the  midst  of  them,  and  He  said :  These  I  will  make  my 
rulers;  for  he  stood  among  those  that  were  spirits,  and  he  saw  that  they 
were  good,  and  he  said  unto  me:  Abraham,  thou  art  one  of  them;  thou 
wast  chosen  before  thou  wast  born." 

The  Lord  told  Abraham  that  with  him  were  many  of  the  noble 
and  great  ones,  whom  He  would  make  His  rulers.  The  world  be- 
lieves not  in  the  ante-mortal  state  of  men,  according  to  the  teachings 
of  their  churches  and  their  ministers.  They  halve  not  arrived  at  that 
knowledge,  because  they  have  not  obeyed  the  law  upon  which  that 
blessing  is  predicated,  for  it  is  a  great  and  glorious  blessing  to  a  man 
or  a  woman  to  obtain  a  knowledge,  while  they  sojourn  in  the  flesh,  that 
before  they  came  here  they  lived,  and  that  God  organized  intelligences, 
and  established  them,  so  that  when  they  should  come  into  the  earth, 
some  should  be  His  rulers ;  not  particularly  the  riders  of  nations,  but 


L38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  rulers  of  His  Church,  in  the  day  that  His  Church  should  be  in 
the  earth,  for  he  says,  "These  I  will  make  my  rulers.'"  These  men 
were  tried,  and  proved  to  be  the  spirits,  among  others,  who  were  able 
to  be  leaders  of  men ;  and  before  they  were  born  in  this  earthlife,  in 
the  clays  of  their  "primeval  childhood,"  when  they  were  "nurtured  at 
his  side,"  in  immortality,  the  God  of  our  Fathers  and  their  fathers 
had  given  unto  them  their  calling;  and  we  have  thousands  of  people 
who  stand  in  the  midst  of  Israel,  as  also  many  who  have  passed  away, 
who  can  testify,  and  do  testify,  that  the  leaders'  of  this  Church  were  in- 
spired men,  who  were  called  and  ordained  to  be  his  rulers  in  the 
day  and  age  in  which  they  were  to  come  on  the  earth. 

The  history  of  Joseph  Smith  is  evidence  to  this  people,  that  he  was 
and  is  a  prophet  of  the  Living  God,  and  impresses  even  those  who  do 
not  believe  with  evidence  of  his  leadership.  We  find  no  greater* 
leadership  in  all  the  world  than  in  this  "Mormon"  Prophet,  who  la- 
bored early  and  late,  unceasingly,  to  establish  in  the  minds  and  hearts 
of  men  that  faith  and  that  knowledge  which  he  had  received  in  his 
communication  with  the  Father,  the  Father  of  all  the  children  of  men 
who  have  to  be  reached  in  the  flesh,  and  with  Jesus  Christ.  He  gave  his 
life  for  the  testimony  which  he  bore,  that  he  had  seen  the  Father  and' 
the  Son,  and  that  they  had  revealed  unto  him  the  true  order  of  wor- 
ship. And  as  the  world  grows  older,  men  and  women  of  all  countries 
will  become  acquainted  with  his  work  and  with  his  character,  and  they 
will  point  to  him  as  being  the  man  who  was  a  leader  of  men ;  and 
when  they  recognize  that  he  was  a  leader  of  men,  then  the  power  of 
the  Almighty  will  rest  upon  them,  and  they  will  recognize  in  him  a 
leader  of  God's  people  here  in  the  earth.  Then  will  they  begin  to  re- 
member the  Lord,  and  will  begin  to  come  unto  him  in  repentance,  and 
will  finally  come  unto  Him  in  His  kingdom.  It  may  take  unto  eter- 
nity before  the  truth,  that  has  been  preached  to  them  while  here  in  the 
flash,  shall  pierce  them,  but  except  a  few  who  may  reject  it,  all  will  re- 
ceive it  ultimately. 

Now  I  want  to  say  a  word'  about  Brigham  Young.  How  many 
people  have  given  consideration  as  to  what  it  took  to  build  that  Temple 
on  this  block,  to  lay  those  mighty  stones,  to  plan  that  mighty  edifice? 
I  think  there  are  but  few  in  the  Church  today  who  can  properly  es- 
timate what  one  of  those  stones  weigh,  and  what  it  took  to  build  that 
great  structure.  I  question  very  much  if  any  of  us  have  given  it 
sober  or  serious  thought.  None  but  a  man  moved  upon  by  God  could 
build  such  a  building.  It  stands  there  as  a  monument,  and  will  stand 
as  a  monument,  that  Brigham  Young  was  and  is  a  prophet  of  God, 
and  that  God  did  inspire  him.  You  know  when  he  stood  at  the  head 
of  the  Church  he  preached  the  gospel  with  as  much  power  as  any 
prophet  has  ever  done.  Men  asked  him  how  he  was  going  to  build  the 
temple.  He  said,  "The  Lord  has  shown  unto  me  the  pattern  of  the 
temple,  and  I  know  what  it  shall  be  like,  and  how  to  builcf.  it."  Those 


ELDER  SAMUEL  A.  BENNION 


139 


words  of  his  are  there  in  granite.  That  is  evidence  to  this  Church  and 
to  the  world  that  he  was  a  leader  of  men,  a  mighty  man,  and  a  glorious 
character,  one  who  was  ordained,  and  one  who  stood  in  the  midst  of  the 
Gods  when  these  rulers  of  the  Church  were  chosen.  Brigham  Young- 
was  among  them.  So  was  the  Prophet  Joseph.  So  was  John  Taylor, 
who  also  gave  his  life,  offered  it  in  Carthage  jail  when  Joseph  and 
Hyrum  fell  martyrs,  and  who  gave  up  their  lives  because  of  persecution 
many  years  later,  when  he  stood  at  the  head  of  this  great  Church. 
Wilford  Woodruff  was  there.  Lorenzo  Snow  was  there.  Joseph  F. 
Smith  was  there.  Heber  J.  Grant  was  there.  God  said,  "These  I  will 
make  my  rulers."  And  you  who  have  the  testimony  of  Jesus,  you 
who  have  received  the  knowledge  that  this  latter-day  work  is  true, 
you  know,  in  your  own  hearts,  that  these  men  were  and  are  leaders 
of  God's  people  in  the  great  work  He  has  established  upon  the  earth. 

As  I  listened  to  President  Grant,  at  our  opening  session,  tell  the 
people  what  they  should  do,  and  what  he  had  done  for  them1  in  the 
way  of  establishing  them  more  firmly  in  their  industries,  so  that  they 
might  pay  their  debts  and  live  as  becometh  the  people  of  God,  and  as 
He  intended  they  should,  there  was  testimony  in  his  heart,  the  testi- 
mony and  words  of  the  living  Redeemer  shone  forth  in  his  counten- 
ance. The  living  God  governs  the  words  and  testimonies  of  his  serv- 
ants as  they  come  upon  the  earth,  just  as  he  counseled  with  them  when 
they  stood  among  the  spirits  and  knew  them  to  be  the  men  that  He 
would  have  them  to  be. 

God,  our  eternal  Father,  through  His  Son  Jesus  Christ,  has 
proved  to  the  world  that  he  has  never  made  a  mistake  with  the  men 
that  He  has  called  to  lead  Israel ;  from  the  days  of  Adam  until  now. 
He  has  chosen  men  that  He  knew>  before  their  worldly  career,  who 
would  come  forth  in  time,  and  be  the  leaders  of  men,  and  He  said 
through  Paul,  the  Apostle,  that  He  hath  determined  the  times  before 
appointed,  and  the  bounds  of  their  habitation.  And  Moses  tiells 
us,  in  Deuteronomy,  that  the  "nations  of  the  earth  were  divided  ac- 
cording to  the  number  of  the  children  of  Israel,"  and  Israel  was  known 
of  the  Lord,  and  leaders  of  Israel  were  recognized  by  Him  because  of 
their  ability  to  carry  on  His  work.  Why  was  Jeremiah  ordained  a 
prophet?  Because  God  knew  who  he  was,  knew  that  he  was  a  pro- 
phet because  of  the  power  that  he  had  received  through  observing  the 
laws  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  before  the  world  was.  God  knew 
that  he  would  be,  in  his  day  and  in  his  time,  when  he  should  come 
to  the  earth  according  to  appointment,  a  prophet  of  the  living  God,  and 
one  in  whom  the  Lord  could  repose  confidence,  because  of  his  stability, 
strength,  power,  life,  and  love  for  His  work. 

I  want  you  Latter-day  Saints  to  go  home,  with  this  feeling  in 
your  hearts  that  he  who  leads  this  Church  is  a  man  divinely  called 
and  associated  with  men  who  are  duly  appointed  to  act  in  the  name 
of  God,  and  who  have  the  power  to  ordain  others ;  and  that  through 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


them  comes  revelation  for  the  guidance  of  this  Church,  for  the  preach- 
ing of  the  gospel,  for  the  redemption  of  mankind;  that  they  are  chil- 
dren of  our  Father,  called  by  our  Father  to  be  leaders  of  the  children 
of  men  before  they  lived  upon  the  earth.  A  man  will  make  no  mis- 
take who  follows  them,  and  receives  their  advice,  and  who  keeps  the 
commandments  of  God. 

I  heard  President  Grant  say,  recently,  that  he  would  consider  it 
a  favor  to  him,  if  men  and  women  would  abstain  from  the  use  of  tea 
and  coffee,  tobacco,  liquor,  and  coca-cola;  that  they  would  have 
power  given  them  to  establish  themselves  in  the  faith,  and  save  them- 
selves from  debt,  sickness,  and  disease.  And  he  read  from  the  reve- 
lations, that  the  destroying  angel  would  pass  them,  by;  and  he  is  a 
prophet  of  God. 

Read  in  the  scriptures ;  in  them  is  life  and  light  and  the  power  that 
leads  back  unto  God,  our  Father.  A  shor-t  time  ago,  I  asked;  the)  branch 
presidents  and  conference  presidents  and  each  missionary  in  the  Cen- 
tral States  mission,  to  take  up  a  labor  with  the  members  of  their 
branches,  and  with  every  member  of  the  Church  with  whom  they 
came  in  contact,  encouraging  them  to  read  the  scriptures,  not  only  in 
preparation  for  their  lessons  for  auxiliary  organizations,  but  separate 
and  apart  from  that — to  read  the  scriptures  one-half  hour  a  day.  I  tell 
you  if  men  and  women  will  do  this  the  Lord's  truth  will  come  into 
their  minds  and  into  their  hearts,  and  they  will  remember  constantly 
the  word  of  God,  and  will  avoid  the  pitfalls  that  are  everywhere 
present  to  entrap  those  who  have  a  knowledge  that  this  is  the  Church 
of  God  in  the  earth,  and  that  there  is  none  other  through  which  salva- 
tion to  the  human  family  can  come.  May  God  give  us  the  power  to  be 
true  to  his  work  I  humbly  pray  in  His  name.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "God's  refuge  and  strength." 
Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Joseph  A.  McRae. 


CLOSING  SESSION 

The  Conference  was  continued  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Sunday  after- 
noon, April  9,  1922,  at  2  o'clock. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

An  overflow  meeting  was  announced  to  be  held  in  the  Assembly 

Hall. 

The  choir  sang,  "Arise,  O  glorious  Zion." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  David  R.  Langlois,  president  of  the 
Burley  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  sang,  "Hark,  listen  to  the  trumpeters." 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


141 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

I  am  quite  sure  that  we  have  all  been  impressed  by  the  remarks 
of  our  brethren  on  the  great  increase  of  crime  and  sin  in  the  world 
at  large  and  the  growing  spirit  of  lawlessness — disregard  for  the  laws 
of  the  land.  This  spirit  is  so  prevalent  that  it  even  menaces  the  safety 
of  our  own  great  nation,  say  nothing  about  the  other  nations  of  the 
world.  When  I  read  in  the  newspapers  that  th4  lawless  elements  are 
gaining  control  of  the  offices,  both  executive  and  judicial,  in  our  great 
cities,  appointing  police  and  judges  friendly  to  their  criminal  enter- 
prises, and  contemplate  the  general  disregard  for  law  and  order  now 
threatening  our  municipal  governments  in  the  leading  cities  of  our 
fair  land,  it  occurs  to  me  that  we  are  living  in  perilous  times,  "when 
iniquity  shall  abound"^ — in  the  days  that  we  read  about  in  the  'scrip- 
tures, and  concerning  which  the  Savior  of  the  world  said,  when  He  had 
been  asked  to  give  to  His  apostles  the  sign  of  His  second  coming  and 
of  the  destruction  of  the  world:  "For  then  shall  be  great  tribulations, 
such  as  was  not  since  the  beginning  of  the  world  to  this  time,  no, 
nor  ever  shall  be.  And  except  those  days  should  be  shortened,  there 
should  no  flesh  be  saved ;  but  for  the  elect's  sake  those  days  shall  be 
shortened."  These  impending  evils,  iniquity,  and  sin,  that  are  so  ram- 
pant in  all  the  world  cannot  fail  to  have  some  effect  upon  us,  for  we 
are  more  or  less  in  contact  with  that  world  of  sin.  The  Latter-day 
Saints  ought  to>  be  in  complete  accord  and  harmony  with  every  move- 
ment that  is  made  to  combat  the  progress  of  sin.  We  say  to  every 
organization  and  to  every  man  who  lifts  up  his  voice  and  stretches 
forth  his  hand  to  stem  the  tide  of  evil :  "You  are  engaged  in  a  glorious 
work.  God  bless  you  in  every  such  undertaking."  But  of  all  these 
agencies — and  there  are  many  of  them — there  is  only  one  that  is  ade- 
quate to  overcome  the  sin  of  the  world,  and  that  is  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  administered  by  the  Church  of  our  Redeemer  estab- 
lished in  the  earth  for  that  express  purpose,  that  we  might  overcome 
this  world  of  sin.  How  may  we  then  properly  equip  ourselves  to  meet 
the  arch  enemy  of  God  and  his  legions  that  are  abroad  in  the  world, 
luring  men  and  women  away  from  the  path  of  rectitude  into  the  paths 
of  sin  and  down  to  degredation  and  destruction?  How  can  men  and 
women  be  properly  equipped  in  order  that  they  may  combat  evil  when 
the  enemy  shall  make  an  attack  upon  them  individually  ?  For  even  the 
elect  are  not  safe,  but  it  is  comforting  and  pleasing  to  contemplate  that 
we  shall  not  have  to  endure  the  great  trials  and  tribulations  that  shall 
come  to  the  world  for  any  great  extended  length]  of  time,  because,  we 
are  told,  "for  the  elect's  sake  those  days  shall  be  shortened."  Were,  it 
otherwise,  no  flesh  would  be  saved.  It  matters  not  how  strong  we  may 
feel  ourselves  to  be. 

It  matters  not  what  position  we  may  occupy  in  the  Church  or  out 
of  it.   No  man  is  so  safe  that  he  may  boast  of  his  own  strength,  but  only 


142 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


as  God  shall  be  our  strength  and  come  to  our  rescue,  and  then  shorten 
the  days,  will  we  be  able  to  overcome,  and  finally  gain  the  victory ;  at 
least,  that  is  the  way  I  read  the  holy  scripture.  And  what  is  the 
equipment?  Can,  you,  then,  or  can  I.  or  can  any  human  sou'  in  all  the 
world,  combat  and  overcome  the  temptations  of  the  present  day  in  and 
of  ourselves  without  being  properly  equipped  for  that  great  struggle? 
I  answer  "No,  we  cannot."  We  need  the  help  of  God.  We  need  the 
companionship  or  His  Holy  Spirit.  Without  these  we  cannot  succeed. 
And  how  shall  we  obtain  that  help ;  and  how  secure  this  holy  compan- 
ionship? Through  obedience  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ:  Faith  in 
God  and  in  His  only  Begotten  Son — faith  in  the  efficacy  of  His  redeem- 
ing blood  that  was  shed  for  the  sins  of  all  mankind ;  through  sincere 
repentance  from  sin  :  with  a  broken  heart  and  contrite  spirit  exercise 
our  own  powers  of  resistance.  Then  be  baptized  by  immersion  for  the 
remission  of  sins  by  a  servant  of  God  who  has  been  endowed  with 
power  from  on  high,  divinely  authorized  to  perform  that  holy  ordinance. 
Then,  and  not  until  then,  may  we  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
without  which  no  man  can  overcome  the  sins  of  the  world.  The  Spirit 
of  God  will  not  dwell  in  an  unclean  tabernacle.  The  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  cannot  be  secured  until  our  sins  have  been  washed  away  by  bap- 
tism, through  the  atoning  blood  of  the  Lamb  of  God. 

This  is  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  This  is  the  equip- 
ment that  every  soul  must  have,  if  he  shall  combat  the  sins  of  this 
world  and  overcome  them.  So  we  say  to  all  the  world :  Repent  and 
be  baptized,  every  one  of.  you  ;  believe  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  ac- 
cept of  Him  as  the  very  Son  of  God,  who  gave  His  life  to  overcome 
death  and  the  grave  and  redeem  mankind  from  their  fallen  condition. 
Do  this  that  you  may  receive  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  thereby  be 
prepared  to  fight  the  good  fight  of  faith  and  overcome  the  power  of 
the  adversary.  Let  me  say  further,  that  "Except  ye  repent,  ye  shall  all 
likewise  perish."  Oh,  ye  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  wherever  you  may  be, 
turn  to  the  Lord  and  repent  of  sin  and  accept  of  the  atonement  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Let  me  say  to  Latter-day  Saints,  repent  of  yuur 
sins,  be  they  great  or  be  they  small,  accept  the  counsels  that  are  given 
to  us. from  the  presiding  authorities  of  the  Church,  and  if  we  have  com- 
mitted sin,  be  it  great  or  small,  let  us  turn  to  the  Lord.  If  we  have 
failed  in  the  payment  of  our  tithes  and  our  offerings,  if  we  have 
failed  in  the  observance  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  let  us  repent  and 
turn  away  from  nt  gleet  of  duty.  If  we  have  in  any  way  offended  the 
Lord  or  done  aught  amiss,  let  us  turn  to  Him  throught  repentance,  and 
He  will  forgive  and  grant  us  His  Holy  Spirit  that  we  may  not  lose  its 
companionship,  for  we  need  that  companionship  every  day  of  our 
lives  that  we  may  be  prepared  to  meet  the  enemy  wherever  he  may 
assail  us. 

The  only  adequate  means  of  combatting  the  sins  of  the  world, 
then,  is  obedience  to  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  only 
edequate  agency  is  His  Church  which,  on  account  of  a  universal  apostasy, 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


143 


was  withdrawn  from  the  world,  but,  thanks  be  unto  Him,  has  again 
been  restored  to  the  earth  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  It  is  the  only  Church  endowed  with  power  from  on 
high  authorized  to  administer  the  saving  ordinances  of  His  gospel, 
including  the  bestowal  of  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  without  which 
not  even  the  elect  can  hope  to  gain  the  victory. 

Then,  beware  of  sin,  oh,  ye  sons  and  daughters  of  Zion !  Adhere  to 
the  faith  of  your  fathers ;  secure  for  yourselves  the  companionship  of 
the  Holy  Spirit ;  keep  yourselves  unspotted  from  the  sins  of 
the  world,  for  the  adversary  is  seeking  your  destruction.  Art  unvirtu- 
ous  youth  or  maiden  is  like  fruit  without  flavor,  or  the  flower  that 
hath  no  fragrance,  or  the  salt  that  hath  lost  its  savor,  "thenceforth  good 
for  nothing  but  to  be  cast  out  and  to  be  trodden  under  foot  of  men." 

Through  the  laying  on  of  hands  by  a  duly  authorized  servant  of 
God  the  Holy  Spirit  is  conferred  upon  us  as  a  gift  from  God.  This  en- 
titles us  to  its  constant  companionship,  but  only  so  long  as  we  retain 
the  remission  of  our  sins,  and  this  we  may  retain  by  virtue  of  our 
baptism,  just  so  long  as  we  continue  in  the  good  fight  of  faith,  and  if 
we  endure  unto  the  end  of  our  lives  then  shall1  we  gain  the  victory  over 
sin,  notwithstanding  our  many  weaknesses  and  shortcomings. 

God  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints.  May  they  grow  in  the  knowledge 
of  Him,  and  in  good  works.  Good  bless  thei  youth  of  Zion.  Shield  and 
protect  them  from  the  power  of  evil.  May  they  not  fall  into  by  and  for- 
bidden ways.  God  bless  His  children  everywhere,  the  honest  in  heart 
in  every  land,  and  lead  them  into  His  fold.  May  they,  through  obedi- 
ence to  His  gospel,  secure  the  remission  of  their  sins  and  the  glorious 
companionship  of  His  Holy  Spirit.  And  may  we  all,  thus  equipped  for 
the  battle  of  life,  gain  the  victory  over  sin  and  secure  unto  ourselves 
the  crown  of  eternal  life  and  unto  Thee,  O  Lord,  we  will  give  the 
honor  and  glory  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  read  the  following  report  of  the  Church 
Auditing  Committee:  / 

AUDITING  COMMITEE'S  REPORT 

April  4,  1922 

President  Heber  J.  Grant, 
Trustee-in-Trust. 

Dear  Brother:  We  have  pleasure  in  reporting  to  you  that  the 
books  of  the  Trustee-in-Trust  and  the  Presiding  Bishop's  Office  have 
been  audited  in  detail  month  by  month  for  the  year  1921.  The  com- 
piled report  for  these  two  offices  also  has  been  carefully  audited  for 
the  same  period. 

We  have  pleasure  also  in  certifying  to  you  that  the  accounts  for 
the  year1  1921  were  accurately  kept  andi  that  the  books  are  in  good  con- 
dition. 


144 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


The  compiled  reports  of  the  Trustee-in-Trust,  covering  the  entire 
financial  interests  of  the  Church,  are  so  arranged  as  to  give  a  clear 
and  comprehensive  understanding  of  the  present  financial  condition  of 
the  Church. 

Very  respectfully  submitted, 

Your  brethren  in  the  Gospel, 

Henry  H.  Rolapp, 
John  C.  Cutler, 
Heber  Scowcroft, 
Peter  G.  Johnston, 
Church  Auditing  Committee. 

On  motion  the  report  was  unanimously  approved  by  vote  of  the 
conference. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  have,  a  long  list  of  the  general  boards  of  the  Sunday  School, 
the  Mutual  Improvement  Association,  the  Relief  Society,  and  other 
auxiliary  institutions,  but  inasmuch  as  these  institutions  hold  their 
regular  annual  conferences,  we  will  dispense  with  the  reading  of  all 
the  names  in  the  future  at  our  general  conferences,  and  only  read 
the  names  of  the  presiding  officers  and  sustain  the  general  boards 
with  them,  without  reading  all  those  names.  The  General  Authori- 
ties of  the  Church  and  Auxiliary  officers  and  boards  were  then 
presented,  and  by  unanimous  vote  of  the  assembled  multitude,  were 
sustained  in  their  various  offices  and  callings  as  follows : 

general  authorities  of  the  church 

First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer,  and  Revelator 
and  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Charles  W.  Penrose,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  Twelve  Apostles :  Rudger  Clawson. 

Council  of  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed  Smoot, 
George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David 
O.  McKay,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Talmage,  Stephen  L. 
Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  John  A.  Widtsoe. 

Presiding  Patriarch:  Hyrum  G.  Smith. 

The  counselors  of  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and 
the  Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventy :  Seymour  B.  Young,  Brigham 
H.  Roberts,  Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  Mc- 
Murrin,  Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi  Edgar  Young. 

Presiding  Bishopric:  Charles  W.  Nibley,  Presiding  Bishop;  David 
A.  Smith,  First  Counselor;  John  Wells,  Second  Counselor. 

Trustee-In-Trust :  Heber  J.  Grant,  as  Trustee-in-Trust,  for  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 


CHURCH  A  UTHORITIES 


145 


Church  Historian  and  Recorder :  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the 
following  assistants :  Andrew  Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A.  Wil- 
liam Lund,  Junius  F.  Wells. 

Church  Board  o  f  Education :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Charles  W.  Pen- 
rose, Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Willard  Young,  Rudger  Clawson,  Orson  F. 
Whitney,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  David  O.  McKay, 
Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman ;  Arthur  Winter,  Secretary 
and  Treasurer. 

Commissioners  of  Education :  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Stephen  L.  Rich- 
ards, Richard  R.  Lyman. 

Superintendent  of  Church  Schools:  Adam  S.  Bennion. 

'Auditing  Committee :  Henry  H.  Rolapp,  John  C.  Cutler,  Heber 
Scowcroft,  Peter  G.  Johnston. 

Tabernacle  Choir:  Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor;  B.  Cecil  Gates, 
Assistant  Conductor;  John  J.  McClellan,  Organist;  Edward  P.  Kim- 
ball, Assistant  Organist;  Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Assistant  Organist; 
George  C.  Smith,  Secretary  and  Treasurer.  And  all  the  members  of 
the  Choir. 

Clerk  of  General  Conference :  Edward  H.  Anderson. 

AUXILIARY  ORGANIZATIONS 
GENERAL  BOARD  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Officers:  Mrs.  Clarissa  S.  Williams,  General  President;  Mrs. 
Jannie  B.  Knight,  First  Counselor;  Mrs.  Louise  Y.  Robison,  Second 
Counselor:  Mrs.  Amy  Brown  Lyman,  General  Secretary  and  Treas- 
urer.   And  the  members  of  the  board. 

DESERET,  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION  BOARD 

Officers:  David  O.  McKay,  Superintendent;  Stephen  L.  Rich- 
ards, First  Assistant  general  Superintendent;  George  D.  Pyper,  Sec- 
ond Assistant  General  Superintendent;  John  F.  Bennett,  Treasurer ; 
Albert  Hamer  Reiser,  Secretary.  And  the  members  of  the  general 
board. 

YOUNG  MEN'S   MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Officers:  George  Albert  Smith,  Superintendent;  Brigham  H. 
Roberts,  First  Assistant;  Richard  R.  Lyman,  Second  Assistant;  Oscar 
A.  Kirkham,  Executive  Director;  Moroni  Snow,  Secretary.  And  the 
members  of  the  board. 

YOUNG  LADIES'  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Officers:  Martha  H.  Tingey,  President;  Ruth  May  Fox,  First 
Counselor ;  Mae  T.  Nystrom,  Second  Counselor ;  Clarissa  A.  Beesley, 
Secretary  and  Treasurer ;  Maria  Y.  Dougall,  Honorary  Member ;  Mar- 
garet Summerhays,  Music  Director ;  Evangeline  Thomas,  Assistant 
Music  Director.    And  the  members  of  the  board. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

Officers:  Louie  B.  Felt,  President;  May  Anderson,  First  Coun- 


146 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


selor;  Clara  W.  Beebe,  Second  Counselor;  Mary  R.  Jack,  Secretary 
and  Treasurer ;  Matilda  W.  Cahoon,  Chorister ;  Jane  R.  Crawford, 
Organist;  Genet  Bingham  Dee,  Librarian;  Isabell  S.  Ross,  Ann  Nebe- 
ker,  Edna  H.  Thomas,  Physical  Directors.  And  the  members  of  the 
general  board. 

GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIGION  CLASSES  RELEASED 

Inasmuch  as  the  commissioners  of  education,  under  the  direction 
of  the  General  Board  of  Education,  have  taken  over  the  work  of  the 
Religion  Classes,  it  is  moved  and  seconded  that  we  honorably  release 
with  our  blessing  for  their  past  splendid  labors,  the  members  of  the 
General  Board  of  Religion  Classes.  The  motion  was  put  and  carried 
unanimously. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 

( Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  President  of  the  ; 
California  Mission-) 

It  is  certainly  a  very  great  privilege,  as  well  as  a  great  responsi- 
bility, to  stand  before  this  great  congregation.  I  sincerely  hope  that 
the1  few  moments  I  occupy  this  position  I  may  be  prompted  by  that 
good  spirit  which  has  been  made  manifest  in  the  remarks  that  have 
been  made  by  the  presiding  authorities  of  the  Church  during  the 
meetings  of  this  great  conference.  I  have  felt  impressed,  while 
listening  to  the  valuable  instructions  imparted,  with  the  testimony 
of  the  member  of  a  stake  presidency  that  I  listened  to  several  years 
ago  when  I  was  attending  a  stake  conference.  He  had  just  returned 
from  attending  the  general  conference  of  the  Church,  and  he  stated 
that  he  had  been  in  attendance  at  the  general  conference  for  fifty-two 
years.  When  he  returned  from  this  particular  conference  his  people 
inquired  as  to  the  character  of  the  conference  and  how  he  had  en- 
joyed himself.  He  answered  by  saying  that  it  was  the  greatest  con- 
ference he  had  ever  attended.  Then  the  children  laughed  and  said: 
"Why,  father,  we  have  heard  you  say  that  after  every  conference,  as 
long  as  we  can  remember."  I  have  been  attending  conferences  my- 
self forabout  forty  years,  and  I  think  I  may  go  back  to  the  people  of 
the  California  mission  and  say,  in  all  truth  and  sincerity,  that  this 
conference  has  been  most  enjoyable;  that  the  instructions  that  have 
been  imparted,  from  my  point  of  view,  have  been  as  valuable,  that  the 
manifestations  of  the  Spirit  of  the  living  God  have  been  as  great  in 
the  teachings  imparted  to  the  people,  as  any  conference  I  have  ever 
attended.  I  thank  God  for  a  religion  of  this  character;  that  after 
long  years  of  listening  to  the  instructions  and  testimonies  of  the  pre- 
siding authorities  of  the  Church,  there  is  such  light,  and'  power  in  the 
gospel  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world  that  the  hearts  of  men  and 
women  are  made  just  as  glad  in  the  work  of  God,  after  they  have 
listened  to  these  instructions  for  a  lifetime,  as  when  they  first  heard 


ELDER  JOSEPH  IV.  McMURRIN 


147 


the  glad  tidings  of  great  joy.  I  don't  know  that  there  is  anything  else 
in  the  world  just  like  "Mormonism."  It  surely  is  the  power  of  God. 
It  is  the  fulfiling  of  the  prophecies  that  have  been  given  through  an- 
cient prophets  in  days  gone  by,  and  if  any  man  can  come  into 
this  great  congregation  and  listen  to  the  character  of  instructions  im- 
parted by  the  presiding  men  of  the  Church,  and  look  into  the  faces 
of  the  hosts  of  Israel  who  have  come  up  from  the  East,  and  the  West, 
and  the  North  and  the  South,  that  they  may  be  more  perfectly  in- 
structed in  the  ways  of  God,  and  not  feel  that  this  is  a  marvelous 
work  and  a  wonder,  and  a  fulfilment  of  the  predictions  of  the  proph- 
ets in  relation  to  the  latter-days,  then  I  can  only  say  that  he  would 
be  in  evei;y  way  contrary  to  my  own  view  and  contrary  to  the  con- 
victions of  my  own  soul. 

I  am  glad,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  a  missionary,  and  glad 
to  say  to  the  fathers  and  mothers  who  have  sons  and  daughters  in  the 
California  mission,  that  those  sons  and  daughters  are  doing  honor  to 
their  parentage.  It  is  really  a  wonderful  thing  to  witness  the  develop- 
ment that  takes  place  with  these  missionaries,  and  yet  it  is  true  that 
they  are  weak  men  and  weak  women  and  they  feel  very  keenly  their 
weakness.  Still,  through  the  blessing  and  power  of  God,  they  are  con- 
vinced of  the  truth  of  the  gospel  and  they  are  made  to  comprehend, 
by  the  unerring  guide  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  the  truth  of  the  religion  re- 
vealed of  the  Lord  in  the  dispensation  in  which  we  are  living,  just 
as  fully  and  completely  as  their  fathers  and  their  mothers  have  been 
made  to  know  that  truth. 

I  was  thrilled  in  my  soul,  just  a  short  time  ago,  in  attending  a 
priesthood  meeting  of  the  missionaries  in  the  San  Francisco  confer- 
ence, to  hear  a  young  sister  say — and  she  said  it  in  the  fear  of  God  and 
under  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  God — "I  never  knew  that  1 
was  alive  until  I  came  into  this  mission."  I  talked,  not  long  ago, 
with  a  young  man  who  has  been  and  is  a  stock-raiser,  and  has  been  quite 
prominent  in  connection  with  this  business,  and  he  said  to  me,  "Presi- 
dent McMurrin,  I  have  never  taken  as  much  pleasure  in  watching 
my  flocks  and  my  herds,  and  in  witnessing  the  increase  in  their 
numbers,  as  I  have  taken  here  in  striving  to  preach  the  doctrines  of 
the  everlasting  gospel.  I  have  never  found  any  joy  in  connection  with 
my  personal  affairs  that  could  in  any  way  equal  the  joy  that  I  have 
experienced  as  I  have  tried,  to  the  best  of  my  ability,  to  communicate 
to  men  the  message  of  the  gospel  that  has  been  committed  into  my 
hands,  and  I  have  never  been  half  as  anxious  over  any  of  my  wordly 
possessions;  I  have  never  prayed  about  them  to  the  same  extent  that 
I  have  prayed  about  the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  me  as  a  preacher 
of  righteousness." 

I  am  glad  to  say  that  the  sons  and  daughters  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  who  are  laboring  in  the  California  mission  are  laboring  there 
under  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  There  may  not  be 
anything  of  a  very  remarkable  character  transpiring,  and  yet  there 


148 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


is  something  remarkable  transpiring,  for  the  message  of  the  gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  being  delivered  to  the  people  of  that  mis- 
sion, and  that  message  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  The  de- 
livering of  the  message,  bearing  witness  to  the  truth,  will  have  its  ef- 
fect in  due  time,  for  the  Lord  God  Himself  has  promised  that  the  de- 
claration of  His  word,  as  it  is  spoken  by  His  servants,  shall  never 
fall  to  the  ground  without  bearing  fruit,  and  I  am  a  believer  in  the 
promise  that  has  been  made  in  relation  to  these  matters. 

We  have  recently  had  the  pleasure,  in  California,  of  having  with 
us  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  Dr.  John  A.  Widstoe  and  Bishop  Charles 
W.  Nibley,  and'  of  having  the  President  dedicate  a  chapel  at  San 
Bernardino.  That  name  ought  to  have  interest  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  President  Brigham  Young,  in  the  early  settlement  of  this 
great  section  of  the  country,  sent  pioneers  into  California.  There  is 
a  story  related  that  he  said  that  when  they  found  a  mountain  with  a 
mark  upon  its  side  of  an  arrow-head  they  should  pitch  their  tents.  I 
don't  know  whether  he  ever  said  anything  of  the  kind  or  not,  but  it  is 
represented,  at  least  in  Railroad  literature,  and  in  other  ways,  that 
such  a  declaration  was  made.  But  be  that  as  it  may,  those  people 
pitched  their  tents  in  the  section  where  San  Bernardino  now  stands, 
and  upon  the  mountain  side  there  is  the  perfect  picture  of  an  arrow 
head,  and  it  has  been  made  as  you  know  the  emblem  of  the  Salt  Lake 
Route.  Owing  to  the  coming  of  the  Johnston  army,  these  early 
pioneers  were  called  back  home,  and  from  that  time,  from  that  day  up 
until  the  present  time,  we  have  had  no  real  foot-hold  in  San  Bernar- 
dino ;  and,  of  course,  our  hearts  are  glad  and  we  praise  the  Lord  God 
of  heaven  in  the  fact  that  we  are  now  privileged,  through  the  minis- 
try that  is  being  carried  on  in  California,  to  establish  a  splendid  little 
chapel  that  has  been  dedicated  to  the  Lord  our  God  by  the  President 
of  the  Church.  We  have  come  to  believe  that  some  of  the  things  that 
possibly  illumined  the  mind  of  President  Brigham  Young,  long  ago, 
may  yet  take  place  in  that  region  of  country,  and  we  have  recently 
thought  it  to  the  advantage  of  the  work  of  God  to  establish  a  confer- 
ence, with  headquarters  in  San  Bernardino.  We  have  also  been  suc- 
cessful in  establishing  a  conference  with  headquarters  in  the  city  of 
Fresno,  where  we  have  had  but  little  opportunity  in  the  past  to  pro- 
claim these  glad  tidings  of  great  joy.  There  is  a  great  multitude  of 
people,  three  hundred  fifty  thousand  strong,  in  the  Fresno  conference, 
who  know  just  about  as  much  regarding  the  principles  of  the  gospel  of 
of  Lord  Jesus  Christ  as  if  they  lived  in  some  far-off,  distant  land ;  and 
the  missionaries,  who  are  operating  at  that  point,  have  joy  and  glad- 
ness in  their  souls,  because  of  the  success  that  is  attending  their  minis- 
try. And  so  we  might  continue  to  speak  of  San  Francisco,  and  to 
speak  of  Los  Angeles,  and  to  speak  of  San  Diego,  and  to  speak  of 
sections  of  Nevada  and  Arizona  where  these  young  boys,  in  their 
weakness,  and  yet  with  joy  in  their  hearts  and  with  confidence  in  the 
call  that  they  have  received  from  the  servants  of  God,  are  lifting  up 


ELDER  JOSEPH  IV.  McMURRIN 


149 


their  voices  according  to  their  ability,  calling  men  to  repentance,  and 
bearing  witness,  under  the  inspiration  and  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
concerning  the  truth  of  the  everlasting  gospel? 

We  had  the  privilege,  while  President  Grant  was  visiting,  to  go 
out  to  Long  Beach,  where  the  civil  authorities  had  given  the  "Mor- 
mon" choir  of  Los  Angeles,  Long  beach,  and  Ocean  P'ark  the  oppor- 
tunity of  singing  The  Martyrs  in  their  great  auditorium,  and  it  was 
packed  to  its  capacity.  They  say  there  were  six  thousand  people 
present. 

Elder  Axel  A.  Madsen,  the  conference  president,  delivered  a  con- 
cise and  comprehensive  story  in  relation  to  the  martyrs,  the  character 
of  men  they  were,  and  the  causes  that  led  up  to  their  martyrdom. 
Under  the  inspiration  and  Spirit  of  God  he  was  enabled  to  present 
things  of  very  great  importance,  and  I  take  it  there  are  many  men 
who  heard  what  he  had  to  say,  as  well  as  who  heard  the  singing  of 
the  choir,  who  will  remember  favorably  something  concerning  "Mor- 
monism."  President  Grant  had  the  opportunity,  I  am  glad  to  say 
also,  before  that  great  congregation,  of  saying  a  few  words  in  appre- 
ciation of  the  kindness  and  liberality  of  the  authorities  in  Long  Beach. 
Permission  has  now  been  granted  us  by  the  commissioners  of  Balboa 
Park  to  meet  there.  Balboa  Park  is  the  park  that  housed  the  buildings 
of  the  great  fair  during  the  International  Fair  that  was  held  at  San 
Francisco  and  San  Diego,  and  they  have  there  a  great  open  air  organ, 
and  permission  has  been  given  to  the  choir  of  Southern  California 
to  go  and  sing  The  Martyrs  to  the  people  of  San  Diego,  and  the 
privilege  also  of  using  the  great  organ  that  was  erected  during  the 
fair  period.  We  had  the  privilege,  some  time  ago,  in  Long  Beach  of 
singing  The  Vision  to  a  great  host  of  people,  four  thousand  or  five 
thousand  strong,  when  Elder  Everard  McMurrin  had  the  blessed  priv- 
ilege of  bearing  record  to  the  truth  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  and  expounding  in  clearness  and  force  the  nature  of  that  great 
first  vision,  and  what  was  to  come  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  world 
as  a  result  of  it.  While  we  do  not  see  great  things  transpiring,  our 
hearts  are  made  glad  in  what  is  taking  place,  and  your  sons  and  your 
daughters  know  that  the  Lord  has  spoken.  They  know  that  the  gospel 
of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  as  revealed  to  Joseph  Smith,  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation,  and  they  have  the  courage  to  tell  the 
people,  according  to  their  power  and  ability,  the  gospel  message.  God 
bless  the  sons  and  daughters  of  ZTon,  and  establish  them  for  ever 
and  for  ever  in  that  form  of  religion  which  is  indeed  and  of  a  truth 
the  Power  of  God,  the  only  means  of  salvation  to  a  perishing  world. 
Amen. 

A  sacred  solo  was  sung  by  James  H.  Neilson,  "Thus  shall  Thy 
light  shine  forth." 


150 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

We  have  been  pleased  and  instructed  by  the  sweet  music,  and 
thrilled  by  the  testimonies  of  our  brethren,  and  deeply,  and  I  trust 
abidingly  impressed  by  the  timely  instructions  given  during  this  con- 
ference. In  the  keynote  speeches  by  the  First  Presidency  we  had 
presented  to  us  the  gospel  of  temporal  salvation,  scriptural  philosophy, 
(concerning  which  not  yet  all  of  the  elders  of  the  Church  are  fully 
informed,)  and  then  we  had  presented  to  us  some  of  the  great  national 
problems.  President  Ivins,  in  speaking  upon  the  latter  topic,  challenged 
our  attention  to  the  question  as  to  whether  or  not  it  was  sensationalism 
for  him  to  say  what  he  did,  and  while  he  spoke  there  went  forth  from 
the  city  of  New  York  a  press  dispatch  giving  information  that  Police 
Commissioner  Enright  had  advised  the  organization  of,  and  was  organiz- 
ing, New  York  City  as  a  sort  of  armed  camp,  with  a  dozen  armed  private 
citizens,  upon  each  block,  to  come  forward  at  the  call  of  the  officers, 
because  there  had  been  in  ninety-three  days  as  many  spectacular  mur- 
ders committed  in  that  great  city.  While  President  Ivins  spoke,  there 
came  from  Chicago  an  account  of  five  murders  in  the  past  forty-eight 
hours,  and  an  account  of  a  letter  received  by  Mr.  Kickham  Scanlan, 
whom  Brother  Ivins  mentioned,  the  Chief  Justice  of  the  Criminal 
Courts  of  Chicago,  who  recently  called  upon  the  people  of  Chicago  to 
know  whether  they  were  going  to  degenerate  into  a  race  of  yellow  men 
or  not,  or  stand  by  the  enforcement  of  the  law.  Justice  Scanlan  received 
a  letter  from  some  of  those  whom  he  had  offended,  because  he  had  said 
that  gun-men  and  thugs  headed  local  labor  unions.  The  letter  received 
was  to  the  effect  that  he  would  be  "bumped  off,"  to  use  the  language 
of  outlawry ;  that  he  might  sing  it,  hum  it,  or  whistle  it,  but  an  armed 
guard  could  not  be  with  him  always,  and  his  life  would  be  forfeited'. 
Time  will  tell  whether  the  threat  will  be  carried  out. 

This  same  Chief  Justice  Scanlan,  a  few  weeks  before,  had  been 
called  upon  by  a  notable  organization  held  in  the  city  of  Chicago,  the 
officers  of  the  N.  E.  A.  which  represented  in  a  way  some  seven  hundred 
thousand  school  teachers  of  the  United  States.  They  desired  to 
know  of  the  Chief  Justice  of  the  criminal  court  the  cause  for  outlawry, 
and  he  assigned  the  passing  of  the  old-fashioned  home  in  which  religion 
was  taught,  and  a  disbelief  in  God,  lack  of  faith  in  God,  as  the  reasons, 
and  said  that  no  finer  institution  existed  than  the  old-fashioned  home- 
stead where  religion  was  taught.  There  were  others  at  the  N.  E.  A. 
who  discussed  some  of  the  problems  that  our  nation  is  concerned  with, 
and  that  we  as  a  people,  as  a  religious  body,  and  as  American  citizens, 
are  interested  in. 

There  was  Professor  Edward  A.  Ross,  the  sociologist  of  the  Wis- 
consin University,  who  declared  that  the  formula  for  making  boys  and 
girls  worth  living  with  was  as  well  understood  by  sociologists  as  the 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


151 


formula  for  the  manufacture  of  soap,  and  after  giving  some  of  the 
elements  he  declared  that  the  crowning  formula  of  all  was  religion. 
He  noted,  by  the  way,  and  we  will  disagree  with  him  on  that 
point,  that  about  the  ages  of  seventeen  or  eighteen  years  of  age  was  the 
time  to  begin  to  teach  religion.  We  well  know  that  we  must  start  at  an 
earlier  age,  but  this  same  sociologist,  while  agreeing  that  religion  was  the 
crowning  factor  in  his  formula,  said  that  the  preachers  or  the  clergy 
had  greatly  exaggerated  what  they  had  to  offer;  a  charge,  perhaps, 
growing  out  of  his  experience  with  such  representatives  of  the  clergy 
as  he  was  acquainted  w,ith.  , 

And  there  was  Professor  Frank  E.  Spaulding,  Dean  of  the  Grad- 
uate School  of  Yale,  who  spoke  also  at  that  organization  in  reference 
to  education,  quoting  Sir  Aukland  Geddes,  the  British  representative, 
who  had  recently  declared  that  the  very  end  of  education  was  to  turn 
out  pupils  with  minds  which  saw  things  in  a  certain  color.  And  then 
Professor  Spaulding  asked  :  "What  color  ?  What  is  the  color  of  the  edu- 
cation in  the  United  States  ?"  And  he  said  it  was  true  that  it  contained 
certain  pigments,  had  in  it  the  pigments  of  patriotism,  honesty,  sincerity, 
truth,  goodness,  courage,  cheer,  generosity,  humility,  sympathy,  love  for 
humanity,  for  justice,  law,  and  order.  "But  what  of  the  color  itself," 
he  asked,  "the  deep  absorbing,  overwhelming  color  of  our  public  edu- 
cation ?"  And  he  declared  that  it  was  "individual  success  through  individ- 
ual effort,  a  desire,  a  determination,  for  individual  achievement,  and  this 
desire,  this  determination,  is  overwhelmingly,  almost  universally  focused 
upon  ideals  of  material  achievement  and  material  prosperity."  And 
then  he  asks  the  question  if  that  sort  of  coloring  is  satisfactory,  and 
declared  that  it  was  a  problem  for  the  deepest  thought  of  our  statesmen 
to  answer  whether  that  sort  of  coloring  in  our  education  is  satisfactory. 

Mr.  Tigert,  the  United  States  Commissioner  of  Education,  also 
made  a  speech  in  which  he  said :  "Unless  along  with  these  so-called 
high-t>row  subjects,  we  can  teach  honesty,  justice  and  decency,  we'd 
better  dismantle  our  finely  equipped  educational  institutions  and  gO'  back 
to  the  old  log  schoolhouse."  And  he  quoted  from  a  noted  ecclesiast, 
who  said :  "I  would  rather  have  my  boy  in  heaven  learning  his  A,  B,  C's 
than  I  would  have  him  in  hell  reading  Latin  and  Greek."  He  declared 
that  it  was  a  great  discovery  in  surgery,  the  sharp  knife,  but  it  was  a  still 
greater  discovery,  the  clean  knife,  sterility ;  and  he  would  rather  have  a 
dull  knife,  if  clean,  thp^n  the  sharp  knife  if  foul. 

These  are  some  of  the  problems  that  concern  the  American 
people.  Such  statesmen  as  William  Jennings  Bryan  and  others  are  not 
satisfied  with  the  sort  of  education  being  given  to  our  boys  and  girls. 
It  was  a  source  of  satisfaction  to  me  to  hear  the  discussion  at  the 
Universitv  of  Utah  the  other  day,  and  I  would  place  along  with  the 
paner  that  has  been  mentioned  as  delivered  by  Dr.  Carver,  the  paper 
delivered  by  Dr.  Georse  Thomas  stating  the  policy  of  our  chief  educa- 
tional institution.    I  think  these  companion  documents  should  be  in  the 


152 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


homes  of  our  people,  and  for  consideration  of  our  boys  and  girls.  It 
is  of  great  importance,  that  sort  of  coloring  that  they  have  in  their 
education.  , 

One  of  our  greatest  scientists,  Pascal,  in  speaking  of  belief  in  the 
immortality  of  the  soul,  declared  that : 

"All  our  actions  and  thoughts  follow  paths  so  different,  carrying  accord- 
ing to  the  hope  of  gaining  eternal  blessings  or  not,  that  it  is  impossible 
to  take  any  sensible  or  judicious  step  without  regulating  ft  from  thfis 
standpoint,  which  must  be  our  final  object." 

The  great  statistician,  Babson,  in  a  convention  of  business  men  at 
Pittsburgh  a  few  years  ago,  speaking  on  this  question  of  law  and  order, 
which  is  a  problem  now  with  our  large  centers  of  population,  said  this : 

"If  you  gentlemen  are  assuming  that  it  is  the  police  and  government 
that  preserve  law  and  order  in  this  nation,,  and  create  the  conditions  of 
safety  in  which  you  live  and  do  business,  you  are  mistaken.  It  is  the 
church  which  makes  this  nation  safe." 

Many  educators  have  been  quoted  during  this  conference  on  the 
question  of  religious  training.  Mr.  Butler,  the  President  of  the 
largest  University  in  our  land,  defines  education  as  having  to  do  with 
man's  spiritual  environment,  and  he  uses  the  term  spiritual  in  a  very 
broad  sense,  having  to  do  with  man's  art,  man's  science,  his  literature, 
his  institutional  life,  and  last,  but  not  least,  with  religious  training. 

But  the  problem  is  how  to  give  this  religious  training.  I  rejoice  that 
we  are  solving  it  so  far  as  the  Church  is  concerned,  in  our  religious 
instruction  at  home,  and  in  our  Church  schools,  and  in  the  seminaries 
for  boys  and  girls  who  are  pursuing  studies  in  the  high  schools,  colleges 
and  universities. 

I  appreciate  the  importance  of  our  auxiliary  associations.  I  would 
not  detract  from  the  impressive  picture  Brother  Roberts  gave  of  the 
importance  of  the  Boy  Scout  movement;  and  yet,  after  all,  it  is  but  an' 
auxiliary  of  which  there  are  many  in  the  United  States,  such  as  Weed 
Craft  League  of  America,  headed  by  Mr.  Ernest  Thompson  Seton, 
and  the  Father  and  Sons'  League,  and  the  Big  Brother  and 
the  Big  Sister  Federations,  the  De  Molay  movement,  and  the 
Camp  Fire  Girls,  Girl  Scouts,  our  Bee  Hive  Girls;  and  just 
lately  we  heard  of  another  organization  of  the  girls  connected  with 
our  Primary,  the  Seagull  Girls.  But  all  these,  after  all,  are  but  auxiliary 
to  the  training  which  must  be  given  in  the  home.  Mr.  Thomas  Nixon 
Carver  has  been  liberally  quoted  from  in  this  conference,  and  it  is 
indeed  refreshing  to  hear  stated  some  theological  principles  after  being 
transmuted  into  the  terms  of  the  political  economists.  For  instance,  he 
defines  truthfulness  as  a  labor  saving  device,  and  proves  it.  Altruism 
for  practical  purposes  he  defines  as  being  a  good  sport.  We  know  altru- 
ism, however,  in  a  higher  form  than  that,  as  evidenced  by  our  temple 
work,  and  also  the  vast  amount  of  work  being  done  for  humanity,  such 
as  indicated  by  the  reports  of  our  mission  presidents. 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


153 


There  is  just  one  extract  I  would'  like  to  read  from  Dr.  Carver's 
The  Religion  Worth  Having,  as  to  the  sort  of  boys  and  girls  he 
would  have  in  a  church  that  is  able  to  hold  its  place  in  the  nation  and  to 
comply  best  with  the  first  great  command  to  multiply  and  replenish 
the  earth,  and  subdue  it.   He  says : 

"What  attractions  does  the  fellowship  of  the  productive  life  offer?  To 
young  men  it  offers  days  of  toil  and  nights  of  study.  It  offers  frugal 
fare  and  plain  clothes.  It  offers  lean  bodies,  hard  muscles,  horny  hands, 
or  furrowed  brows.  It  offers  wholesome  recreation  to  the  extent  necessary 
to  maintain  the  highest  efficiency.  It  offers  the  burdens  of  bringing  us 
large  families  and  training  them  in  the  productive  life.  It  offers  the  obli- 
gation of  using  all  wealth  as  tools  and  not  as  a  means  of  self-gratification. 
It  does  not  offer  the  insult  of  a  life  of  ease  or  aesthetic  enjoyment,  or 
graceful  consumption  or  emotional  ecstasy.  It  offers  instead  the  joy  of 
productive  achievement,  of  participating  in  the  building  of  the  Kingdom  of 
God. 

"To  the  young  woman  also  it  offers  toil,  study,  frugal  fare  and  plain 
clothes  such  as  befit  those  who  are  honored  with  a  great  and  difficult  task. 
It  offers  also  the  pains,  the  burdens  and  responsibilities  of  motherhood. 
It  offers  the  obligation  of  perpetuating  in  succeeding  generations,  the 
principles  of  productive  life  made  manifest  in  themselves.  It  does  not 
offer  the  insult  of  a  life  of  pride  and  vanity.  It  offers  the  joj  of  achieve- 
ment, of  self-expression,  not  alone  on  dead  marble  and  canvas,  but  also  in  the 
plastic  lives  of  children  to  be  shaped  and  molded  into  those  ideal  form-;  of 
mind  and  heart  which  their  dreams  have  pictured.  In  these  ways  it  offers  to  them 
also  the  joy  of  participating  in  the  building  of  the  Kingdom  of  God." 

In  conclusion  may  I  quote  the  prayer  of  parenthood  which  is  just 
now  being  presented  as  a  text  for  this  year  to  the  Parents'  Classes : 

"I  thank  Thee.  O  God,  for  being, 

For   WHAT,    and   for   WHY   I  am; 

For   wedded   companionship   without  end; 

For  a  life  blended  with  lives  that  through  me  come — 

Help  me,  O  God,  to  know  these  lives  as  they  are: 

To  companion  them  each  day  and  hour, 

To  live  before  them  that  faith  that  carries  on,  and  on — 

e3i|®.  toward  divinity. 
That  mine  may  be  that  joy  unutterable — 
A  sweet,  uplifting  presence  to  each  life  through  mine, 
And  unto  Thee  be  all  praise  forever.  Amen." 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

I  have  been  helped  spiritually  by  the  testimonies  that  have  been 
given  at  this  conference.  It  is  good  to  hear  men  tell  of  God's  goodness 
to  them :  it  is  stimulating  to  listen  to  words  that  bear  witness  that  God 
lives.  The  world  needs  the  spirit  of  inspiration  and  testimony,  and  it 
is  necessary  that  we  as  servants  of  the  Lord  be  ever  ready  to  explain 
the  message  of  our  Savior  Jesus  Christ  in  a  broad  and  comprehensive 
manner.  The  other  evening  I  was  asked  if  "Mormonism"  is  to  solve 
the  problems  of  the  world  from  an  economic  viewpoint.    I  was  in  con- 


154 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


versation  at  the  time  with  a  prominent  American  educator  who  had 
spoken  at  the  University  Club  on  the  conditions  of  civilization  today. 
He  had  explained  that  the  behavior  of  mankind  is  measured  by  economic 
principles  and  ideals.  If  these  principles  are  high,  then  the  solution 
of  the  world's  problems  will  be  correspondingly  good.  If  they  are 
wrong,  then  the  world  will  go  to  pieces,  and  civilization  will  decay. 
He  cited  Russia  as  an  example  of  where  a  people  have  tried  to  bring 
about  reform  in  adopting  economic  ideals  of  a  low  standard.  To  the 
question  as  to  whether  or  not  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  is  to  solve  the  problems  of  humanity  from  an  economic  view- 
point, I  answer  that  the  religion  of  the  Master  is  a  pure  religion,  and 
holds  that  the  spiritual  life  of  man  is  above  all  things,  and  that  the 
suffering  of  humanity  can  only  be  eliminated  as  humanity  humbly 
and  courageously  approaches  the  work  and  problems  of  life  with  a 
supreme  faith  in  God.  We  must  come  back  to  a  fundamental  truth 
which  I  sometimes  fear  we  are  forgetting,  and  that  is  the  fact  that 
Vv-e  are  all  naturally  blessed  with  a  consciousness  of  what  is  righl  and 
what  is  wrong.  We  must  cultivate  this  consciousness  and  choosing 
the  right  as  God  gives  us  the  power  to  see  the  right,  fearlessly  live 
and  preserve  the  better  moral  life  of  our  natures  both  individually 
and  socially. 

Nineteen  centuries  have  passed  since  the  Savior  of  the  world 
uttered  the  ringing  admonition,  "Go  ye  into  all  the  world,"  and  yet 
the  majority  of  mankind  are  unsaved.  Almost  a  thousand  million  of  the 
race  perish  in  the  life  of  each  generation  without  the  gospel,  which 
is  the  only  force  after  all  that  can  re-generate  mankind.  In  answer 
to  the  question,  then,  "Will  'Mormonism'  solve  life's  problems  from  an 
economic  viewpoint?"  I  reply  YES.  But  only  as  the  gospel  of  Christ 
in  its  purity  affiliates  itself  through  men  of  wisdom  with  the  practical 
affairs  of  life.  We  have  reached  a  crisis  in  the  history  of  the  race  when 
but  the  universal  spread  and  triumph  of  the  gospel  can  save  the  world 
from  dire  disaster ;  for  in  the  gospel  is  wrapped  up  the  solution  of  all 
the  industrial,  financial,  political,  social,  and  moral  problems  of  the  age 
with  which  philosophers,  statesmen,  and  philanthropists  are  hopelessly 
struggling.  I  ask :  "Is  not  the  call  a  clear  one  to  us  who  have  the 
gospel,  and  understanding  its  regenerating  and  transforming  power,  to 
teach  mankind  how  to  apply  it  in  making  over  mankind,  and  transform- 
ing institutions  by  this  divine  agency?" 

Let  me  give  you  an  example  of  how  "Mormonism"  has  contributed 
to  the  solution  of  the  social  problem  of  mankind.  No  one  will  deny 
the  fact  that  the  idealism  of  Christianity  is  the  highest  known  to 
humanity.  And  when  it  comes  to  government,  the  principles  of  the. 
Government  of  the  United  States  are  the  most  democratic  and  idealistic 
ever  worked  out  by  statesmen.  The  "Mormon"  Church  has  brought 
people  of  twenty-seven  different  nationalities  together  and,  uniting 
them  in  a  common  purpose,  has  caused  them  to  look  to  the  highest 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


155 


ideals  religiously  and  politically.  When  a  society  is  united  on  the  same 
principles  of  life  and  are  agreed  to  the  same  ideals,  it  is  a  demotic  type, 
as  the  Socialists  express  it.  The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  tells  us  that 
every  man  must  work  out  his  own  salvation,  and  develop  the  individu- 
ality which  God  has  ■blessed  him  with.  This  is  the  greatest  of  all  rights 
and  privileges  in  life,  and  we  should  learn  to  appreciate  it.  The  highest 
ideals  can  only  be  attained  by  our  looking  to  God  for  divine  guidance, 
and  by  our  working  every  day  with  faith  in  ourselves  and  confidence 
in  our  fellow  men.  The  fact  that  one  morning,  God  the  Father  and  His 
Son  Jesus  Christ  spoke  to  the  little  boy  Joseph  Smith  and  gave  him  the 
divine  message  as  to  what  he  was  to  do  to  direct  the  children  of  men 
back  to  the  Throne,  is  the  lesson  which  teaches  that  mankind  must  come 
back  to  God  and  recognize  His  Godship  over  all.  < 

We  have  in  this  congregation  a  delegation  of  Japanese  who  are 
passing  through  our  city.  They  are  welcome  to  these  services,  and  I 
hope  they  will  be  able  to  understand  much  of  what  is  said  this  after- 
noon. A  great  Japanese  poet  once  explained  in  one  of  his  poems  that 
every  man  is  a  part  of  the  "light  of  the  Great  Light,"  and  the  gleam 
of  his  soul  will  ever  be  the  directing  influence  into  the  Great  Light. 
In  one  sense,  this  is  our  philosophy,  for  Joseph  Smith,  recognizing  the 
gleam  of  "Light"  in  his  soul,  went  to  the  "Eternal  light"  and  asked  for 
more  knowledge,  and  he  was  answered.  It  was  as  you  state  in  your 
philosophy,  the  gleam  that  is  in  the  soul  of  man,  participating  in  the 
greater  light  that  brought  us  into  being,  "but  this  light  is  embodied 
in  God,  and  His  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  personages,  beings,  individuals 
as  you  and  I  are. 

I  have  been  asked  what  compromises  "Mormonism"  will  make  with 
the  world?  I  reply,  no  compromise  when  it  comes  to  the  fundamental 
principles  of  religion,  for  they  are  of  God,  and  no  one  has  a  right 
to  compromise  the  eternal  truths  of  God.  They  belong  to  Him.  We 
have  no  right  to  say  we  will  compromise  with  man.  So  I  pray  that 
we  may  hold  up  these  eternal  truths.  There  is  no  compromise  in  God's 
principles  and  holy  laws.  There  can't  be,  they  are  of  God ;  and  we  have 
seen  the  "gleam,"  and  we  must  follow  the  "gleam"  according  to  the 
will  of  God  for  all  His  children. 

The  Lord  help  us  to  see  these  things  and  to  keep  straight  to  the 
path,  loving  all  men  as  individuals.  I  have  hopes  for  the  world,  and 
while  I  agree  with  everything  that  has  been  said  from  this  stand,  I 
know  you  agree  with  me  in  the  statement  that  there  are  great  truths 
being  established  by  men  in  the  world,  that  there  is  goodness  in  the 
world,  there  is  sweetness  and  light  in  the  hearts  of  humanity.  God  help 
us  that  we  may  unite  on  all  these  powers  for  right,  that  the  power  of 
light  may  overcome  the  power  of  darkness.  Amen. 


156 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

(Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric) 

While  listening  to  the  advice  we  have  received  during  this  confer- 
ence. I  thought  of  that  passage  of  scripture :  "My  soul  doth  magnify 
the  Lord,  and  my  spirit  hath  rejoiced  in  God  my  Savior,"  for  I  do  re- 
joice that  we  are  permitted  to  meet  here  in  such  pleasant  surroundings 
and  under  such  auspicious  circumstances,  blessed  with  the  privilege  of 
listening  to  instruction  and  advice  given  by  our  brethren,  under  the 
inspiration  of  the  Lord.  I  realize  what  a  blessing  it  is  to  have  this 
privilege.  What  a  glorious  blessing  it  is  to  feel  the  power  and  influence 
of  the  Holy  Spirit,  under  which  we  make  new  resolves  and  determi- 
nations to  better  serve  the  Lord.  There  is  something  in  "Mormonism," 
commonly  so-called,  or  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  forces  every  one 
of  us,  when  under  its  influence,  to  think  better,  to  act  better  and  to 
make  new  resolves. 

We  have  been  told  to  hold  the  gospel's  standards  high ;  to  keep 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord ;  to  pay  our  tithes  and  offerings ;  and  to 
remember  the  poor.  All  of  these  instructions,  if  carried  out,  will 
develop  in  our  hearts  the  spirit  of  unselfishness  and  devotion  to  our 
fellow  men.  No  one  can  perform  a  good  act  or  a  service  for  the  Lord 
but  what  he  rids  himself  of  some  selfishness.  I  often  meditate 
on  the  great  commandment  given  by  our  Lord  and  Master:  "Thou 
shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul, 
and  with  all  thy  mind.  This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment.  And 
the  second  is  like  unto  it.  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself." 
This  commandment  is  practically  the  sum  and  substance  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and  His  great  work  will  roll  forward  just  in  proportion 
to  the  measure  that  we  grasp  that  fact  and  live  it.  We  cannot  possibly 
separate  the  love  of  God  from  the  love  of  fellow  men.  The  more 
we  love  God,  and  the  more  we  try  to  serve  Him,  the  more  we  shall  love 
our  fellow  men ;  and  the  more  we  shall  desire  to  labor  for  our  Master. 
We  cannot  separate  our  religion  into  two  parts,  to  be  forgotten  in  wordly 
affairs  and  to  be  remembered  on  the  Sabbath  day  only.  Every  Latter- 
day  Saint  who  has  in  his  heart  a  desire  to  love  God  and  to  keep  His 
commandments,  must,  at  the  same  time,  love  his  fellow  men,  and  this 
great  body  of  Latter-day  Saints  demonstrate,  as  no  other  people  on 
this  earth  have  done,  the  force  and  power  behind  the  great  command- 
ment of  our  Lord  and  Master,  and  the  sacrifice  and  labors  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  for  the  love  of  their  fellow  men.  This  is  almost  beyond 
comprehension. 

When  I  listened  to  the  President  give  out  the  report  of  temple 
work,  I  thought  to  myself :  "It  would  take  a  thousand  years  for  one 
person  to  do  all  the  work  that  has  been  done  in  the  temples  for  the  dead 
in  one  year."  Then,  when  we  remember  the  twenty-five  thousand 
ward  teachers  who  visit  the  homes  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  every 
month,  going  in  humility  of  heart  with  a  message — not  a  scolding  or 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


157 


fault-finding — but  a  message  of  uplift,  of  love,  of  kindness  and  of  help- 
fulness ;  we  realize  what  service  and  love  of  our  fellow  man  means. 
Then,  there  are  the  sisters  of  the  Relief  Society,  acting  as  visiting  teach- 
ers, going  from  home  to  home,  laboring  week  in  and  week  out,  gather- 
ing small  funds  for  the  poor  and  for  other  social  purposes,  leaving 
their  blessing,  their  sympathy,  and  the  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  in  the  homes  they  visit.  Then,  we  must  remember  the  seventy 
thousand  brethren  in  the  Church,  holding  offices  in  the  Priesthood, 
from  patriarch  to  deacon,  who  are  trying  to  exercise  the  Priesthood 
given  unto  them  to  teach  others  by  example  and  by  precept  the  gospel 
of  our  Lord  and  Master. .  Our  critics  are  still  groping  about  to  find 
fault  with  the  work  of  the  Lord.  They  will  not  lift  up  their  heads  to 
see  the  good  we  are  doing.  They  are  very  much  like  the  picture  I  saw 
in  my  early  days  in  an  edition  of  John  Bunyan's  Pilgrim's  Progress, 
in  which  an  angel  stood  over  a  man  in  poverty  who  was  raking  the 
gutters  with  a  muck  rake,  trying  to  find  something  valuable  there,  while 
there  stood  over  him  the  angel  who  had  a  crown  for  him  if  he  would 
only  look  up  for  it.  The  world  is  in  the  same  condition  today  in 
relation  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  They  have  not  made  up  their  minds 
that  good  can  come  from  Nazareth,  after  all. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  must  be  prepared  to  give  sweetness, 
kindness  and  helpfulness  and  to  develop  the  highest  type  of  com- 
munity life  among  the  Latter-day  Saints.  By  this  I  do  not  mean  the 
cooperative  movement  that  prevails  in  the  world,  by  which  one  great 
organization,  under  the  name  of  cooperation,  is  developing  this 
movement  through  stores,  for  the  movement  is  nothing  more  than  a 
protest  against  their  competitors,  and  is  still  the  competitive  system  of 
living.  Such  methods  only  aggravate  the  class  distinction  that  is  grow- 
ing so  pronounced.  The  cooperation  the  Latter-day  Saints  should  have 
is  that  of  sympathy  and  love,  kindness  and  helpfulness,  improvement  of 
homes,  farms,  and  all  working  with  that  ideal  of  the  common 
good  in  mind,  with  that  neighborly  spirit  that  is  so  well  under- 
stood among  the  Latter-day  Saints.  This  spirit  of  helpfulness  in 
community  life  will  rid  us  of  our  selfishness,  whether  it  be  com- 
mercial or  otherwise. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  pay  our  tithes  and  offerings,  and 
let  us  remember  the  poor ;  let  us  have  sympathy  for  those  less  fortunate 
than  ourselves,  and  let  this  sympathy  be  of  a  practical  kind ;  let  sweet 
neighborliness  grow  in  our  communities,  for,  after  all,  a  sweet  home  life 
is  the  greatest  help  to  the  community.  I  was  examining  the  United  States 
census  a  few  days  ago.  It  shows  that  a  majority  of  the  people  of  the 
United  States  live  in  the  great  centers  of  population.  The  drift,  all 
through  the  United  States,  is  toward  the  cities.  We  are  not  growing 
in  the  cities,  but  we  are  growing  in  our  semi-rural  and  farming  com- 
munities. We  are  growing  in  our  little  towns  and  hamlets,  where  the 
sweetest  home  life  and  the  finest  development  take  place. 


158 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


May  the  Lord  bless  us  that  we  may  magnify  our  callings,  honor 
our  Priesthood,  serve  Him  wi  h  full  purpose  of  heart,  and  ail  oth  r 
things  will  be  added  to  us.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Come,  come,  ye 
Saints." 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

(Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric) 

I  am  sure  that  as  good  as  President  Grant  is  with  figures,  he 
would  have  a  difficult  problem  in  trying  to-  determine  how  much  blood 
my  heart  has  pumped  during  this  day,  and  judging  from  the  feeling 
that  came  over  me  when  my  name  was  mentioned,  the  first  two  seconds, 
my  blood  was  pumped  to  a  froth. 

I  remember,  a  number  of  years  ago  while  on  the  train,  listening  to 
a  discussion  between  President  Lorenzo  Snow,  President  George  Q. 
Cannon  and  President  Joseph  F.  Smith.  They  were  discussing  their 
missionary  experiences  and  trials  that  had  come  to  them  in  their 
missionary  work.  To  my  surprise  at  that  time,  they  agreed  that  the 
hardest  thing  they  had  to  do  was  to  occupy  this  position.  Having 
listened  to  each  of  them,  preach  wonderful  sermons,  I  could  not  under- 
stand how  this  could  be,  but  I  can  now  say  that  I  have  lived  to  appre- 
ciate, in  a  modest  way,  their  feelings,  and  I  believe  I  have  learned  that 
it  is  a  virtue  to  be  desired  rather  than  avoided.  For  I  have  discovered 
that  when  a  man  acts  in  and  of  himself,  in  his  own  strength,  he  makes 
mistakes,  but  when  God  acts,  he  makes  no  mistakes,  and  He  has  prom- 
ised His  children  that  if  they  humble  themselves  before  Him,  His 
blessings  will  attend  them,  and  I  have  found  in  my  short  experience 
nothing  that  will  humble  one  so  effectively  as  being  called  to  this 
position. 

Merciful  and  gracious  is  the  Lord,  and  marvelous  is  His  work. 
Blessed,  indeed,  are  those  of  us  who  have  been  permitted  to  take  upon 
us  His  name,  and  covenant  with  Him  through  the  waters  of  baptism 
that  we  are  willing  to  serve  Him,  that  we  appreciate  the  opportunity 
He  has  given  unto  us  of  again  returning  into  His  presence,  to  enjoy 
the  blessings  promised  the  faithful.  While  I  attended  a  convention 
in  the  East  a  few  years  ago,  this  statement  was  made: 

"Our  experience  in  Europe  with  the  army  has  taught  us  that  today  the 
people  have  no  love  for  the  old  conventional  religion.  Instead  there  are 
selfishness  and  pettiness.  We  must  do  away  with  the  false  social  distinc- 
tions and  create  a  church  ideal,  fit  for  our  present  need,  one  with  social 
aims  worth  fighting  for,  not  a  mere  selfish  gospel  of  safety.  Let  them 
lift  up  the  center  faiths  of  the  Christian  life,  let  them  practice  as  well 
as  preach  fraternity,  and  draw  together  in  one  common  cruse." 

I  want  to  say  to  you  that  in  God's  Church  we  have  a  perfect  fra- 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


159 


ternity.  When  men  learn  to  live  as  God  would  have  them  live,  then  are 
selfishness  and  pettiness  done  away  with ;  but  as  long  as  men  continue 
to  be  selfish  and  petty,  and  jealous,  then  we  cannot  hope  for  the  perfect 
Church  which  God  would  have.  This  is  a  most  wonderful  work  in 
which  we  are  engaged,  and  when  we  learn  to  obey,  when  we  learn  to 
depend  upon  God,  to  take  Him  at  His  word,  and  prepare  to  receive 
His  blessings,  then  can  we  expect  the  promise.  1  learn  a  lesson  from 
the  stories  we  read  in  the  Scriptures  concerning  the  preparation  of  men 
who  have  been  called  to  positions  of  responsibility  in  this  Church 
and  in  the  Church  of  God  anciently.  Abraham,  Isaac,  Jacob,  Joseph, 
Daniel  and  David,  were  trained  in  their  youth.  They  were  prepared 
in  their  youth,  the  foundation  was  laid  for  the  work  that  would  be 
required  of  them  later  in  life.  The  Savior  had  that  experience,  and  in 
this  day  Joseph  Smith,  in  his  youth, — having  been  born  of  goodly 
parents,  having  been  taught  to  have  faith  in  God,  finding  a  difference 
of  opinion  in  his  home,  his  parents  not  agreeing  as  to  which  church 
was  the  church  of  God,  went  to  the  one  place  where  he  could  reason- 
ably be  expected  to  go  to  receive  the  information  "he  needed.  Believing 
in  the  Scriptures,  having  faith,  not  wavering,  he  went  to  God,  and  hav- 
ing complied  with  the  condition  the  promise  was  fulfilled.  God  the  Father 
and  Jesus  Christ,  His  only  begotten  Son,  appeared  to  Him.  God 
the  Father,  all-powerful,  fulfilling  His  promise,  appeared  to  the  boy 
who,  through  faith  and  having  complied  with  the  condition,  was 
worthy.  But  what  was  the  reply  when  asked  which  of  all  the  churches 
was  true?  "This  is  my  beloved  Son,  hear  Him."  God  might  have 
answered  in  further  detail  but  with  Him  there  is  order  in  all  things  and 
this  was  the  mission  of  His  Son. 

Later,  the  Angel  Moroni,  whose  mission  it  was  to  bring  forth  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  which  was  to  open  the  gate  to  this,  the  last  dispen- 
sation, was  sent  to  counsel,  to  watch  over,  to  help  prepare  the  boy  for 
the  work  that  he  was  to  do.  Later,  John  the  Baptist  came  to  fulfil  his 
mission,  it  being  his  right  under  the  direction  of  Peterjames  and  John 
to  restore  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  which  Priesthood  holds  the  keys  of 
the  preparatory  gospel,  the  gospel  of  faith,  repentance  and  baptism  by 
immersion  for  the  .remission  of  sins.  Then  came  Peter,  James  and 
John  who  held  the  right  and  the  power  to  restore  the  holy  Melchizedek 
Prieshood,  and  then  the  Prophet  Elijah  who  came  to  turn  the  hearts  of 
the  fathers  to  the  children  and  the  children  to  the  fathers,  lest  the  whole 
earth  be  smitten  with  a  curse. 

Oh,  I  thank  God  that  there  are  in  this  Church,  as  President 
Ivins  said,  young  men  who  are  willing  to  take  upon  them  the  burden  of 
this  work,  who  are  willing  to  labor  with  all  their  might  for  the  up- 
building of  God's  Kingdom  on  earth,  and  I  know  that  there  are  thou- 
sands of  them  in  the  Church  today  who  can  say,  as  David  of  old  said : 
"Who  is  this  Philistine  that  he  should  defy  the  armies  of  the  living 
God?"  And  then,  when  ridiculed  because  of-  their  youth,  because  of  their 


160 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


inexperience,  they  can  answer  as  he  answered :  "Thy  servant  kept  his 
father's  sheep,  and  there  came  a  lion,  and  a  bear  and  took  a  lamb'  out  of 
the  flock :  and  I  went  out  after  him,  and  smote  him,  and  delivered  it  out 
of  his  mouth ;  and  when  he  arose  against  me,  I  caught  him  by  his  bearJ. 
and  smote  him,  and  slew  him.  Thy  servant  slew  both  the  lion  and  the 
bear,  and  this  Philistine  shall  be  as  one  of  them,  seeing  he  hath  defied 
the  armies  of  the  living  God." 

Oh,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  burden  that  is  resting  upon  us  at 
this  time  is  that  we  shall  continue  to  impress  upon  the  hearts  of  those 
young  men  that  Spirit,  that  we  shall  find  work  for  them  to  do,  that  they 
shall  feel  the  glory  and  the  joy  of  service,  and  when  we  are  laboring, 
as  it  is  expected  that  we  shall  labor,  when  we  humble  ourselves  as  it  is 
expected  we  shall  humble  ourselves,  then  will  the  deacons  in  this  Church 
be  laboring  as  deacons,  assisting  the  bishops  in  caring  for  the  meeting- 
houses, and  looking  after  the  poor.  Then  will  those  who  are  ordained 
to  the  office  of  teacher  watch  over  the  Church  always,  and  be  with 
and  strengthen  them,  and  see  that  there  is  no  iniquity  in  the  Church, 
neither  hardness  with  each  other,  neither  lying,  backbiting,  nor  evil 
speaking;  then  will  those  who  are  ordained  to  the  office  of  priest 
be  prepared  and  be  willing  to  preach,  teach  and  expound  the  principles 
of  the  gospel. 

We  are  told  that  "the  field  is  ripe  and  ready  for  harvest."  "Where- 
fore the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  the  ends  of  the  earth,-  that  all  that 
will  hear  may  hear.  Prepare  ye,  prepare  ye,  for  that  which  is  to  come, 
for  the  Lord  is  nigh,  and  the  anger  of  the  Lord  is  kindled,  and  his  sword 
is  bathed  in  heaven,  and  it  shall  fall  upon  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth, 
and  the  arm  of  the  Lord  shall  be  revealed,  and  the  day  cometh  that  they 
who  will  not  hear  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  neither  the  voice  of  His  serv- 
ants ;  neither  give  heed  to  the  words  of  the  prophets  and  apostles,  shall 
be  cut  off  from  among  the  people." 

Oh  ye  that  embarked  in  the  service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve  Him 
with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and  strength,  that  ye  may  stand  blame- 
less before  God  at  the  last  day.  God  so  grant,  I  numbly  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

{Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church) 

My  heart  and  my  soul  are  in  entire  sympathy  and  harmony 
with  the  doctrines  and  precepts  and  counsel  and  admonition  and 
spirit  of  this  great  conference.  I  know  that  the  men  who  stand  at 
our  head,  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  the  Apostles,  the  Patri- 
arch, the  Seventies,  and  the  Bishopric — you  may  exclude  me  from 
God.  There  may  have  been,  doubtless  have  been,  in  times  past,  one 
God.  There  may  have  been,  doubtless  have  been,  in  times  past,  one 
here  and  there,  more  distinguished  as  a  leader,  more  fitted,  as 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


161 


President  Ivins  pointed  out  to  us,  for  the  work  that  they  were 
called  upon  to  do,  than  any  others  who  preceded  them  or  who 
have  followed  them;  but  in  the  history  of  this  Church  I  don't 
believe  there  ever  has  been  a  band  of  brethren  of  general  author- 
ities who  are  more  desirous  of  serving  the  Lord  unselfishly  than 
the  brethren  that  we  now  have  who  preside  over  the  Church.  They 
are  men  of  God,  clean  of  life  and  unselfish,  and  most  devoted  in 
their  labors.  They  are  men  to  whom  the  Lord  manifests  Himself 
and  to  whom  He'  gives  guidance  and  direction,  in  the  conduct  of 
the  affairs  of  the  Church. 

The  same  may  be  truly  said  with  respect  to  the  authorities  in 
the  stakes,  in  all  the  stakes  of  Zion.  As  far  as  I  know,  the  presi- 
dencies, high  councilors,  the  bishops  and  their  counselors  are,  as  a 
rule,  unselfish  workers,  and  in  the  missions  also,  as  well  as  the 
auxiliary  organizations  and,  in  fact,  in  all  the  activities  of  the 
Church  everywhere,  there  are  more  faithful  workers  today  who 
labor  unselfishly  for  the  upbuilding  of  the  kingdom  of  God  than 
there  ever  were  up  to  this  time ;  so  that  the  Church  and  kingdom  of 
God  is  today  stronger,  more  powerful,  more  potent  than  it  ever 
has  been  in  any  hour  of  its  history  in  the  past. 

But  notwithstanding  all  this,  we  are,  Oh,  so  dreadfully  weak 
in  many  things.  We  are  not  self-sustaining  as  we  should  be ;  far 
from  it.  We  are  most  woefully  in  debt.  I  have  been  thinking  in 
these  meetings  this  thought :  I  wonder  what  Brother  Brigham 
would  say  to  us  if  he  could  happen  along  here  now  and  ascertain 
that  we  do  not  produce  in  our  state  more  than  about  one-half  of 
the  meat  that  we  eat!  We  ship  in  tens  of  thausandp:  of  hogs  from 
other  states  instead  of  raising  them  here  at  home!  I  wonder  what 
he  would  say  after  all  the  years  of  his  teaching,  which  I  heard 
and  others  here  heard,  and  which  you  can  read,  that  this  people 
should  become  self-sustaining,  and  then  find  out  that  today  forty 
to  fifty  per  cent  of  all  the  eggs  consumed  by  the  people  of  this 
state  are  shipped  in  from  the  East,  and  the  fowls  that  you  go  down 
in  the  market  and  buy  are  shipped  in  by  the  carload !  We  do 
not  produce  them  here  where  everybody,  pretty  much,  who  has  a 
little  piece  of  land  could  be  producing  a  few  chickens  and  eggs, 
and  have,  as  Brother  Brigham  used  to  tell  us,  a  pig  or  two,  and 
thereby  become  self-sustaining. 

Then  again,  following  the  same  thought,  I  wonder  what 
President  Smith  wduld  say  to  us  if  he  found  now  that  we  are  more 
in  debt  individually  than  we  ever  were  before.  We  have  not 
followed  the  wise  counsels  that  have  been  given  to  us  as  we 
should  have  done.  I  plead  guilty  myself,  and  yet  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  as  a  whole  are  a  good  people.  I  believe  in  them.  They 
are  my  people.  I  want  to  be  with  them. 

I  see  men  here  and  there  going  away  from  this  camp-fire  of  ours, 
going  off  with  people  who  are  not  of  our  faith.  They  seem  to  find'  hap- 


162 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


piness  and  enjoyment  there,  and  I  fear  some  of  them  have  pleasures 
in  unrighteousness.  But  for  me,  I  like  my  own  people  best,  for  I  be- 
lieve they  are  the  Lord's  people,  and  yet  those  of  our  friends  and  neigh- 
bors at  these  different  campfires  around  us,  they,  too,  are  good 
people. 

I  have  an  abiding  faith  in  this  Nation,  which  the  Lord,  our 
God,  brought  into  being,  and  has  brought  to  this  day  and  age, 
standing  as  it  does,  doing  a  great  work,  a  leader  among  nations  for 
good,  for  helpfulness,  for  righteousness,  for  peace.  President  Grant 
noticed  in  his  opening  remarks  the  wonderful  work  that  had  been 
done,  and  commended  it,  by  the  recent  conference  held  in  the 
city  of  Washington,  looking  to  the  partial  disarmament  of  the 
nations;  that  has  been  a  great  work  and  a  good  work.  We  might 
say,  if  they  had  only  done  that  one  thing,  the  return  of  Shantung 
with  its  thirty  millions  or  more  of  Chinese  to  their  own  land,  to 
their  own  country,  returned  them  to  their  own  government,  if  that 
alone  was  the  only  thing  that  had  been  accomplished,  that  alone  was 
worth  while.  But  many  other  great  things  have  been  accomplished, 
and  I  am  proud  of  what  our  Nation  is  trying  to  do. 

We  need  not  fear  as  to  this  Nation  from  without.  The  Lord  has 
said,  "I  will  fortify  this  land  against  all  other  nations."  The  dan- 
ger is  not  from  without,  but  from  within,  as  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon plainly  points  out  from  secret  combinations  of  men  giving 
their  first  allegiance  to  their  secret  combination.  That  is  the  dan- 
ger for  after  awhile  these  combinations  will  be  contending  one 
against  the  other  until  anarchy  is  apt  to  prevail,  crime  becomes 
rampant  and  danger  to  the  existence  of  our  government  with  its 
glorious  Constitution  is  great,  unless  the  people  turn  unto  the  Lord 
and  seek  Him. 

Our  attention  was  called  by  a  distinguished  educator  here  the 
other  day.  to  the  fact  that  the  great  curve,  as  he  called  it.  of 
mechanical  development,  invention  of  every  kind,  patents'  being 
issued  by  the  millions  on  all  these  inventions,  which  go  on  multi- 
plying by  the  thousands,  the  great  mechanical  development  that 
makes  this  the  most  wonderful  age  in  all  the  history  of  the  world, 
that  curve  he  said  had  gone  way  up  almost  out  of  sight,  but  he 
said  the  spiritual  line  or  curve  has  not  moved  upward  but  rather 
downward,  and  he  suggested  that  the  people  of  this  Nation  should 
give  more  attention  to  the  spiritual  and  less  to  the  temporal. 

On  the  opening  day  of  our  conference,  when  I  saw  a  larger 
congregation  here  than  had  ever  met  on  a  week  day  of  any  confer- 
ev:e  before.  T  marveled  at  it.  What  is  it?  I  thought,  as  this  learned 
educator  called  attention  to  this  lack  in  the  spiritual  growth,  or 
development  of  spiritual  matters,  which  is  so  sadly  lacking  in  the 
wld,  that  here  is  this  very  thing  that  brings  these  thousands 
and  tens  of  thousands  together,  this  spiritual  power  which  is  lack- 
ing in  the  world.  There  isn't  any  use  denying  the  lack  of  it  in  . the 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


163 


world.  Indeed,  it  is  not  denied.  It  is  confirmed.  We  heard  it  con- 
firmed tare  the  other  day  on  the  best  authority,  and  we  see  it; 
we  see  the  lack  of  it;  we  have  heard  it  repeated  in  these  confer- 
ences, the  lack,  as  these  men  testify,  such  men  as  Nicholas  Murray 
Butler  and  others  from  him  on  down,  all  testify  to  that  lack  in 
the  world,  but  here  is  that  spiritual  power  which  has  brought 
these  tens  of  thousands  together  to  this  conference  on  a  week  day 
to  listen  to  the  servants  of  the  Lord.  That  is  the  very  power  which 
the  people  of  the  world  lack.  For  these  thousands  who  come,  do 
not  come  here  to  grumble  and  complain  at  the  Priesthood.  As  a 
rule,  they  are  clean  men,  good  men.  They  are  tithepayers.  They 
are  men  who,  generally  speaking,  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  But 
those  who  do  not  pay  tithes,  and  who  do  not  keep  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  you  will  not  find  them  crowding  into  this  tabernacle  on 
a  week  day,  or  on  a  Sunday  even,  not  as  a  rule.  It  is  those  who 
have  this  spiritual  essence  and  power  in  their  souls,  which  these 
distinguished  educators  say,  and  which  we  know,  the  world  lacks. 
'We  have  it  here,  and  so  we  come  to  be  refreshed  and  to  learn 
of  the  ways  of  the  Lord,  and  to  partake  of  His  spirit,  and  to  grow  in 
grace,  and  in  the  knowledge  of  the  truth. 

■  A  distinguished  and  learned  man,  a  ruler  among  the  Jews,  and 
an  educator,  called  on  the  Savior  in  his  day  and  stated  that  he 
knew  that  the  Savior  had  power  which  they  did  not  have  because, 
he  said,  "No  man  could  do  the  works  you  are  doing  unless  God 
be  with  you."  Now  the  Savior  said  to  him,  "Except  a  man  be  born 
again  he  cannot  see  the  kingdom  of  God."  At  that  the  distinguish- 
ed ruler,  educator  and  teacher  began  to  quibble  and  say :  "Well 
now,  how  can  a  man  be  born  again  when  he  is  old,"  etc.,  and  the 
Savior  replied,  "Except  a  man  be  born  of  the  water,  and  of  the 
spirit,  he  cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God.'" 

He  can  secure  for  himself,  by  conforming  to  the  law,  this 
spiritual  essence  and  power  which  shall  make  him  to  know  God. 
Read  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  how  the  conferring  of  the 
Priesthood  was  brought  about,  and  how  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  which  gives  the  key  of  the  knowledge  of  God,  was  given 
through  holy  angels,  conferring  this  Priesthood  upon  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  and  his  fellow-servant  Oliver  Cowdery.  They  re- 
ceived this  power,  this  authority.  They  were  delegated  to  confer 
it  upon  others,  and  when  they  laid  their  hands  upon  them  and  said, 
"Receive  ye  the  Holy  Ghost,"  then,  mystery  of  mysteries,  miracle 
of  miracles,  thev  received  it.  And  you  also  have  partaken  of  that 
Spirit,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  You  have  received  it  just  as  the 
Savior  told  this  great  teacher  that  he  could  receive  it.  The  Savior 
said,  "The  wind  iblowefth  where  it  listeth,,  |and  thou  hearest  the 
sound  thereof,  but  canst  not  tell  whence  it  cometh,  and  whither 
it  goeth."  We  need  not  inquire  further  than  to  know  that  that  power, 
that  spiritual  essence,  is  received  when  we  comply  with  the  condi- 


164 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


tions.  The  Savior  said  that  no  man  could  receive  it  without  obey- 
ing. You  know  that  is  true.  You  have  received,  as  T  say,  of  this 
Spirit,  and  that  is  what  brings  you  here.  That  is  what  gathers  this 
great  body  of  people  every  six  months.  That  is  what  makes  you 
to  know  that  these  brethren  of  the  Presidency  arc  men  of  God, 
that  these  presiding  officers  are  clean,  good,  upright  men,  compe- 
tent by  the  purity  of  their  lives  alone,  to  be  entitled  to  communion 
with  that  Spirit  and  power  called  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  to  receive 
direction  and  guidance  from  that  source,  and  give  it  -to  this 
people,  and  this  notwithstanding  our  many  little  failings  and  weak- 
nesses which  beset  us  in  our  lives. 

We  can  say,  as  Jesus  said  to  this  great  teacher,  Nicodemus, 
'Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  We  speak  that  we  do  know,  and 
testify  that  we  have  seen ;  and  ye  receive  not  our  witness."  The 
Latter-day  Saints  teach  that  which  they  know,  and  they  say  with 
the  power  of  Almighty  God,  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  this 
spiritual  existence,  this  spiritula  missing  force  which  the  world  is 
now  finding  out  that  it  lacks,  oh,  so  greatly,  too,  which  they  have 
not  got  and  neither  can  they  find  it  only  in  the  Lord's  way,  "Ex- 
cept ye  be  born  of  the  water,  and  of  the  Spirit  ye  cannot  enter  into 
the  kingdom  of  God,"  neither  con  you  know  and  feel  assured  of 
this  spiritual  essence  and  power  which  we  possess,  and  which  we 
know  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  without  complying 
with  this  requirement.  God  Bless  you.  Amen. 

i 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

PRAYERS  ANSWERED 

My  attention  has  been  called  to  the  fact  that  a  resolution  was  passed 
here  some  time  ago,  recommending  that  a  day  be  set  apart  for  a  general 
fast  and  prayer  meeting  among  the  Saints,  to  ask  for  the  success  of 
the  great  International  Conference  on  the  Limitation  of  Armaments. 
We  thank  the  Lord  that  our  prayers  and  those,  undoubtedly,  of  the 
great  majority  of  all  the  people  in  the  United  States,  for  the  success 
of  that  conference,  have  been  answered. 

AIM  AND  DESIRE  OF  THE  GENERAL  AUTHORITIES 

I  believe  that  I  am  in  a  position  to  know,  better  than  any  other 
living  man,  the  heart,  the  aspiration,  the  desire  and  the  ambition  of  each 
of  the  twenty-six  men  who  constitute  the  General  authorities  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Starting  with  myself  and 
ending  with  Brother  John  Wells,  and  without  any  mental  reservation 
whatever,  I  announce  to  you  that  I  believe — I  not  only  believe,  but  I 
know,  that  each  and  every  one  of  these  men  has  his  heart  set  upon  the 
accomplishment  of  the  purposes  of  God.    While  we  all  have  our  faults, 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


165 


our  failings,  our  imperfections,  our  weaknesses,  nevertheless  there  is 
no  mental  reservation  in  saying  to  you  that  these  brethren,  one  and  all, 
desire  the  advancement  of  God's  Kingdom,  and  that  it  is  first  and 
foremost  in  their  affections.  When  we  become  perfect  we  may  not 
be  able  to  stay  here. 

AN  APPEAL  TO  FATHERS  AND  MOTHERS 

Once  I  was  able  to  quote  the  following  stanza  correctly,  but  I 
am  not  quite  sure  of  it  now : 

"Vice  is  a  monster  of  such  frightful  mien, 
As  to  be  hated  needs  but  to  be  seen ; 
But  seen  too  oft,  familiar  with  her  face, 
We  first  endure,  then  pity,  then  embrace." 

I  can  remember  when  a  young  lady  walked  the  streets  of  Salt 
Lake  with  her  dress  high  enough  to  show  the  tops  of  her  shoes,  and  an 
inch  or  two  more,  that  we  were  shocked ;  but  I  have  seen  many  a  knee  on 
the  Temple  grounds  today,  because  the  dresses  were  too  short.  Fathers 
and  mothers,  use  your  influence  with  your  modest,  pure,  sweet  girls 
who,  in  their  anxiety  to  follow  fashion,  are  causing  men  to  blush  with 
shame ! 

USE  NO  DRUG  THAT  CREATES  AN  APPETITE  FOR  ITSELF 

The  head  of  the  health  department,  Dr.  Beatty,  has  requested  me 
to  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  that,  there  are  more  injurious  ingredients 
in  coca-cola  than  there  are  in  coffee,  and  particularly  when  some 
of  the  good  people  say :  "Give  me  the  double  shot."  I  say  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  it  is  my  right  to  say  it — because  you  have  sung,  since 
this  conference  started  (whether  you  meant  it  or  not,  T  am  not 
saying)— 

"We  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet, 

To  guide  us  in  these  'atter  days ; 
We  thank  Thee  for  sending  the  gospel 

To  lighten  our  minds  with  its  rays  ; 
We  thank  Thee  for  every  blessing 

Bestowed  by  Thy  bounteous  hand ; 
We  feel  it  a  pleasure  to  serve  Thee, 

And  love  to  obey  Thy  command." 

Now,  if  you  mean  it — I  am  not  going  to  give  any  command,  but  I 
will  ask  it  as  a  personal,  individual  favor  to  me,  to  let  coca-cola  alone. 
There  are  plenty  of  other  things  you  can  get  at  the  soda  fountains  with- 
out drinking  that*  which  is  injurious.  The  Lord  does  not  want  you  to  use 
any  drug  that  creates  an  appetite  for  itself. 

A  WORD  TO  FARMERS  AND  POULTRYMEN 

Fifteen  years  ago,  yes  longer  than  that,  when  I  was  presiding 
over  the  European  mission,  I  remember  reading  an  article  on  the. poultry 


166 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


industry,  and  I  was  dumb-founded  to  learn  that  the  products  of  the 
poultry  industry — eggs,  chickens,  ducks,  etc.,  were  greater  than  all 
the  products  of  any  other  industry  in  the  United  States  of  America. 
Cotton  was  not  "in  it."  Corn  was  not  "in  it."  I  would  not  be  positive 
as  to  the  figures,  but  my  recollection  is  that  in  the  state  of  Utah  there 
were  not  two  hundred  thousand  chickens,  and  in  the  state  of  Iowa 
there  were  over  ten  millions ;  and  yet,  I  believe  we  have  as  good 
feed  for  chickens  here  as  they  have  in  Iowa.  I  ate  butter  all  the 
way  from  Denmark,  when  I  went  to  Japan.  We  ought  to  export  butter, 
but  never  import  it.  We  ought  to  export  eggs  and  chickens,  but  never 
import  them.  I  have  known  of  poultry  coming  in  here  by  the  car-load, 
which  ought  never  to  come.  It  is  really  almost  a  moral  obligation  on 
us  to  provide  these  things  here  at  home. 

THE  TESTIMONY  OF  THE  GOSPEL  FAR-REACHING 

We  had  at  our  Priesthood  meeting  here,  two  thousand  three  hun- 
dred ninety-eight  men — lacked  only  two  of  two  thousand  four  hundred 
men — the  largest  Priesthood  meeting  that  has  ever  been  held  within  my 
recollection,  and  in  another  six  months  it  will  be  forty  years  since  I 
first  had  the  privilege  of  occupying  this  stand  to  proclaim,  the  gospel  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  thank  the  Lord  for  that  power  and  that 
inspiration  of  His  Spirit  which  abides  in  the  hearts  of  the  Latter-day 
Sainfs,  men,  women  and  children.  No  other  people  like  them ;  no  other 
people  have  the  absolute  knowledge  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  that  God  has  spoken,  and  that  He  did  reveal  Himself  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  The  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  that  man's 
mission  has  been  given  to  people  from  the  country  of  the  mid-night 
sun,  Scandinavia,  clear  away  to  South  Africa.  It  has  been  given  to 
men  and  women  all  over  Europe,  from  Canada  to  South  America,  and  in 
the  islands  of  tne  sea.  The  Japanese  and  Chinamen,  and  men  all 
over  the  world  have  been  blessed  by  Almighty  God  through  His 
giving  to  them  a  knowledge  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the 
true  and  the  living  God. 

THE  ABSENT  BRETHREN  OF  THE  GENERAL  AUTHORITIES 

Brother  J.  Golden  Kimball  is  not  with  us  today  on  account  of  poor 
health.  He  is  in  San  Francisco,  or  in  the  neighborhood  of  San  Fran- 
cisco. Our  prayers  and  faith  go  out  for  his  recovery.  With  the  excep- 
tion of  Brother  Kimball,  the  only  members  absent  from  this  conference, 
of  the  twenty-six  men  standing  as  the  general  authorities  of  the  Church 
are:  Elder  Reed  Smoot,  who  is  in  Washington,  and  Brother  Orson  F. 
Whitney  who  is  presiding  over  the  European  mission.  Brother  Whitney 
is  accomplishing  a  wonderful  work.  I  have  read  with  the  keenest 
interest  some  of  his  splendid  editorials  in  the  Millennial  Star.  T  believe 
that  it  is  needless,  now,  for  me  to  say  anything  in  praise  of  Elder  Peed 
Smoot.  From  the  President  of  the  United  States  down,  he  is  being 
commended  for  his  splendid  labors  as  a  senator. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


167 


A  MEETING  OF  STAKE  PRESIDENCIES  WITH  THE  GENERAL  AUTHORITIES 

Now,  I  agreed  to  quit  in  thirty-five  minutes,  and  I  am  through  in 
ten,  with  one  single  exception,  two  exceptions ;  maybe  I  will  find  three 
before  I  get  through.  I  have  found  three.  The  Presidency  and  the 
general  authorities  desire  to  meet  tomorrow  morning  at  9:30  in  the 
Temple — en' race  from  the  west  door — all  the  presidents  of  stakes  who 
are  here  at  this  conference,  and  their  counselors.  We  will  not  promise 
to  close  that  meeting  till  we  get  through.  You  know  if  you  were  at  a 
picture  show  you  could  stand  it  for  three  hours  without  getting  tired, 
but  when  you  are  in  a  meeting  somewhere,  you  know  it  nearly  kills 
you  to  sit  a  little  over  the  regular  time. 

PRAYER  IN  THE  PUBLIC  SCHOOLS  AND  IN  THE  FAMILIES 

I  have  here  a  note  from  Elder  Stephen  L.  Richards,  who  is  an 
attorney,  and  he  says:  "A  notion  seems  to'  be  prevalent  among  educa- 
tional people  that  the  offering  of  prayer  in  our  public  schools  contravenes 
the  law  of  the  State.  I  believe  a  reputable  legal  opinion  will  not  sup- 
port this  view ;  since  provision  is  made  for  prayer  in  the  Federal  Con- 
gress, the  State  Legislatures,  and  other  public  assemblies,  why  prohibit 
prayer  for  the  children?" 

President  Brigham  Young  said:  "Prayer  keeps  a  man  from  sin, 
and  sin  keeps  a  man  from  prayer."  We  ought  to  have  enough  interest 
in  our  children  to  have  prayers.  I  will  thank  the  Lord  when  the  public 
sentiment  of  America  shall  say  that  a  man  who  c'oes  not  believe  in  pray- 
er cannot  teach  our  children,  at  the  expense  of  the  public.  Why  should 
my  money  be  used  to  employ  a  man  to  teach  my  children  infidelity  and  a 
lack  of  faith  in  God?  I  remember  as  a  boy,  when  we  had  our  small 
common  schools,  that  they  hired  a  non-"Mormon,"  to  teach  in  the 
Twelfth  Ward  school.  He  got  up  and  said :  "I  understand  that  in  the 
past  you  have  prayed  in  this  school.  We  will  not  have  any  more 
prayers,  because  we  do  not  know  whether  or  not  there  is  anybody  to 
pray  to."  I  consider  it  an  outrage  that  the  money  of  people  who  be- 
lieve in  the  Lord  God  Almighty  can  be  spent  to  teach  our  children 
that  kind  of  ''rot."  I  endorse  Nicholas  Murray  Butler's  words, 
"The  fool  who  says  in  his  heart:  'There  is  no  God,'  finds  his  god 
when  he  is  looking  in  a  mirror." 

Mr.  Babson,  the  greatest  statistician  in  America,  and  be  knows 
what  he  is  talking  about,  says :  "Much,  of  the  prosperity  of  the  nation 
is  due  to  the  family  prayers  which  were  once  held  in  the  homes  of  our 
fathers.  To  a  very  large  extent,  this  custom  has  gone  by.  Whatever 
the  argument  pro  and  con  may  be,  the  fact  remains  that  such  family 
prayers  nurtured  and  developed  the  spiritual  resources  to  which  the 
prosperity  of  the  nation  is  due.  The  custom  of  family  prayers  should 
be  revived,  along  with  many  other  good  New  England  customs  which 
some  radicals  may  ridicule,  but  to  which  they  owe  all  they  possess." 


168 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


HAPPINESS  CONSISTS  IN  GIVING  AND  SERVING 

Those  are  the  two  things  I  nearly  forgot.  Here  is  the  other. 
Henry  Drummond  has  written  some  of  the  best  essays,  and  has  deliv- 
ered some  of  the  finest  speeches  that  I  have  ever  read.  In  one  of  his 
books  entitled,  The  Greatest  Thing  in  the  Word,  he  says:  "Half  the 
world  is  on  the  wrong  scent  in  its  pursuit  of  happiness.  They  think 
it  consists  in  having  and  getting  and  in  being  served  by  other.s.  It 
consists  in  giving  and  in  serving  others."  The  happiest  men  in  the 
world  are  the  missionaries  who  are  giving  the  gospel  free  of  charge 
to  the  people  of  the  world. 

May  the  Lord  sanctify  all  that  has  been  said  and  done  in  this  great 
conference.  May  He  bless  our  organizations.  I  thank  the  Lord  for  that 
wonderful  oratorio,  "The  Restoration,"  that  came  from  the  brain  of  the 
daughter,  Susa  Young  Gates,  and  partly  from  the  voice  of  the  grand- 
daughter, Emma  Lucy  Gates  Bowen,  and  from  the  inspired  pen  in  writ- 
ing the  music  of  the  grandson,  B.  Cecil  Gates — of  the  great  man,  Brig- 
ham  Young,  under  whose  direction  was  erected  this  building,  and  our 
great  organ.  May  the  Lord  inspire  us  one  and  all  who  have  a  knowledge 
of  the  gospel  to  live  it.  May  we  obey  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  because 
God  tells  us  to,  to  say  nothing  about  the  advantages  to  ourselves  by  so 
doing.  May  we  pay  our  tithing  so  that  we  will  be  on  the  right  road 
to  happiness,  is  my  prayer.  May  we  pray  to  God,  so  that  we  will  have 
His  Spirit ;  may  we  live  the  gospel,  so  that  we  may  inspire  our  children 
to  do  the  same,  I  ask  it,  with  my  blessing  upon  you  all,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 
Amen. 

A  selection  from  the  Oratorio,  "The  Restoration,"  was  given  by 
John  W.  Summerhays,  Melvin  Peterson,  Evangeline  Thomas,  and 
Martha  Smith  lensen,  of  the  choir. 

The  conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Arthur  W.  Horsley, 
president  of  the  Carbon  stake  of  Zion. 

Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing  in  the  Taber- 
nacle, Professor  J.  J.  McClelland  played  the  accompaniments,  inter- 
ludes, etc.  on  the  great  organ,  assisted  by  Edward  P.  Kimball  and 
Tracy  Y.  Cannon.  Stenographic  reports  of  the  discourses  were  made 
in  the  Tabernacle  by  Franklin  W.  Otterstrom,  assisted  by  Joseph 
Anderson,  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  by  Frederick  E.  Barker,  and  Fred 
G.  Barker. 

Edward  H.  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Page 

Anderson,  Elder  Lewis  R   108 

Auditors'  Report    143 

Authorities,  Present    1 

Authorities,  General  .   144 

Auxiliary  Officers    145 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J   82 


What  of  the  Day  and  Hour  in  which  We  Live?.  82 — A  People 
with  a  Gret  Mission,  83 — A  People  Who  Maintain  Self-Control, 
83 — Rules  of  Conduct  Broad  and  Comprehensive,  84 — The  Destiny 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints — Their  Duty  in  Reaching  It.  84 — The 
Danger  of  Selfishness  and  Class  Combinations,  85 — The  Law  of 
Tithing  a  Remedy,  for  Selfishness.  85 — How  This  People  have 
Learned  Obedience  and  Self-Control,  86 — To  Reach  the  Goal  We 
Must  Pay  the  Price  of  Moral  Integrity,  87 — Appeal  to  Young  Men 
and  Women  to  Maintain  Our  Moral  Standards,  88 — Parents  should 
Assume  More  Responsibility,  88 — A  Call  to  Repentance,  88 — A 


Vision  for  Zion,  89. 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  O   137 

Brown,  Elder  Hugh  B   106 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   115 

Carver,  Thomas  Nixon                                                       .  17 

Clark,  Walter  E   17 

Clawson,  President  Rudger   45 


46 —  The  Story  of  Joseph  in  Egypt,  46 — The  King  and  Prophets, 

47—  The  Story  of  Jesus  Christ  Most  Wonderful  of  All,  47— 
Importance  of  the  Study  of  the  Bible,  47 — Modern  Scripture  of 
Equal  Value,  48. 

Funk,  Elder  James  W   104 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 

The  Inspirations  from  a  Noted  Hymn,  2 — Concerning  the  Great 
Sugar  Industry  of  the  Intermountain  Country,  3 — Home  Manufac- 
ture, 8. — Government  Aid  to  Industry,  8 — Services  and  Liberties 
of  our  Great  and  Glorious  Country,  9 — A  five  Weeks'  Rest  and 
Activit}'  in  California,  9 — Wonderful  Missionary  Work  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  10 — Educational  Activities — Church  and  Secu- 
lar, 10 — Church  Charities  and  Mission  Expenditures,  13 — Church 
Growth  and  Vital  Statistics,  13 — Vital  Statisctics,  14— Missionary 
Activities,  15— Death  of  Wm.  W.  Riter,  15— Return  of  Elder  David 
O.  McKay  from  Circling  the  Globe,  16 — Thankfulness  and  Causes 
for  Rejoicing,  16. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   16 

Announcing  Presence  of  Visitors,  16 — Introducing  Thomas  Nixon 
Carver,  of  Harvard  University,  16 — Walter  E.  Clark,  President  of 


170 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Page 

the  University  of  Nevada,  17 — And  Charles  A.  Lory  President  of 

the  Agricultural  College  of  Colorado,  18. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   19 

Excusing  Visitors,  Owing  to  Other  Appointments,  19. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   82 

Announcing  a  Meeting  of  Two  and  Cue  Half  Hours,  82. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   103 

A  Delegation  from  Japan,  103. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   143 

Auditr'ng  Committee's  Report,  143. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   144 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  144 — Auxiliary 

Officers,  145. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   146 

General  Board  of  Religion  Class  Released,  146. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   164 

Prayers  Answered,  164 — Aim  and  Desire  of  the  General  Authori- 
ties, 164 — An  Appeal  to  Fathers  and  Mothers,  165 — Use  no  Drug 
that  Creates  an  Appetite  for  Itself,  165 — A  Word  to  Farmers  and 
Poultrymen,  165 — The  Testimony  of  the  Gospel  Far-reaching, 
166 — The  Absent  Brethren  of  the  General  Authorities,  166 — A 
Meeting  of  Stake  Presidencies  with  the  General  Authorities,  167 — 
Prayer  in  the  Public  Schools  and  in  the  Families,  167 — Happiness 
Consists  in  Giving  and  Serving,  168. 

Hart,  Elder  Charles  H   150 

Iverson,  Elder  Heber  C   128 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W   34 

The  Nature  of  this  Conference,  34 — Administration  Epochs  of  the 
Church,  34 — The  Epoch  of  Restoration,  35 — The  Pioneer  Epoch, 
36 — Parallel  between  the  Journey  of  Modern  and  Ancient  Israel, 
36 — An  Epoch  of  Storm,  37 — The  Manifesto  Forbidding  Plural 
Marriage,  38 — Laying  the  Foundation  for  Financial  Prosperity, 
38 — Business  Expansion  and  Freedom  from  Debt,  39 — Preaching 
the  Gospel — the  Main  Responsibility  Always  Borne  in  Mind,  39 — 
Magnitude  of  Missionarly  Work,  39 — Home  Occupations  of 
Missionaries,  40 — The  Present  and  to  Us  Most  Important  Epoch 
of  the  Church,  40--Problems  Confronting  (Js  Dangerous  and 
Difficult,  41 — Authentic  Views  Concerning  these  Problem.-',  42-- 
How  the  Church  Stands  on  these  Questions,  43 — Admonitions,  43. 

Jensen,  Elder  Nephi   125 

Knight,  Elder  John  M   19 

Lory,  Charles  A   18 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   77 

Our  Missionaries  have  a  Notable  Message,  77 — The  Create- 1 
Need  of  the  World  Today,  78 — How  the  Latter-day  Saints  may 
Perform  Their  Task,  78  Prayer  One  of  the  Fundamentals  of 
Success.  79 — Lincoln's  Proclamation  for  a  Day  of  Prayer,  79 — 
Teach  the  Young  People  to  Pray,  80 — Seek  First  the  Kingdom 
of  God,  80. 

McCune,  Elder  George  W   132 

McKay,  Elder  David  0   62 

A  Visit  to  Distant  Missions  of  the  Church,  62 — Nearness  of  God 


INDEX 


171 


Page 

to  Us,  and  His  Guiding  Hand.  62— The  Message,  63— A  Keen 
Sense  of  the  Traveler's  Responsibility,  63 — Tendency  of  the 
World  to  Deny  the  Existence  of  a  Personal  God,  63— Four  Great 
Blessings  Coming  from  Faith  in  God  and  Prayer,  64 — Examples 
of  Inspiration  Enjoyed  by  the  Travelers,  65— Restoration  of 
the  Jews  in  Palestine,  66— A  Significant  Experience  in  Jerusalem 
67— If  We  Only  Knew  the  Readiness  of  Christ  to  Help,  69. 

McMurrin,  Elder  Joseph  W   146 

Nibley,  Elder  Charles  W   160 

Penrose,  President  Charles  W   22 

The  Elements  Eternal,  22— We  Should  Not  Go  Beyond  what  the 
Lord  has  Revealed,  23— We  are  in  the  Midst  of  the  Day  of 
Revelation,  24 — God  the  Eternal  Father  Over  All,,  24 — The 
Redeemer's  Name  is  Jesus  Christ,  25— We  are  to  perform  all 
Ordinances  in  the  Name  of  Jesus  Christ,  26 — The  Word  of  the 
Father  to  Us  is  to  Hear  the  Word  of  His  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  26— 
The  Gospel  to  be  Preached  to  Every  Creature,  27— Touching 
the  Fulness  of  the  Gospel,  27— Receiving  the  Holy  Ghost,  28— 
As  to  Sons  of  Perdition,  29 — All  Mankind,,  Good  and  Evil,  will 
be  Resurrected,  30 — Our  Struggle  is  to  obtain  Celestial  Glory, 
31— The  Joy  of  Service  in  the  Mission  Field,  32 — Blessings 
Upon  the  People,  33. 

Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L   119 

Roberts,  Elder  Brigham  H   98 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   55 

We  Carry  Our  Religion  into  Our  Daily  Work,  55 — Why  the 
Saints  are  Successful  Pioneers,  56 — Our  Religion  a  Positive  Reli- 
gion, 56 — Need  of  Profiting  by  the  Experience  of  Others,  57 — . 
The  Message  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,,  58. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   74 

A  Revolting  Crime,  74 — Criticisms  of  the  Police  Officers  and  the 
Law,  74 — Other  causes  than  the  Police  at  Fault,  75 — The  Real 
Cause,.  76 — An  Appeal  to  Sustain  the  Law  and  Its  Officers,  76 —  . 
Our  Need  of  Faith,  Service  and  Self-Control,  77. 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert   48 

God's  Promise  to  the  Teacher,  48 — Compliments  from  Prominent 
Visitors,  49 — Men  are  Reaching  Out  for  the  Spiritual,  49 — The 
JDanger  that  Confronts  the  World  50 — Warning  Messengers, 
SO— Our  Blessings  and  Obligat:ons,  52— The  World  in  Need  of 
our  Ministry,  53 — Advice  to  the  Hearers  of  our  Message  53 — 
What  the  World  Needs,  54. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   59 

Too  Little  Time  Spent  in  Proper  Discussion  of  the  Principles  of 
the  Gospel,  59— Jesus  Christ,  Redeemer  of  the  World,  59— The 
Celestial  Kingdom  of  God.  60 — As  to  Advancement  from  One 
Glory  or  Kingdom  1o  Another,  61. 

Smith,  Elder  Hyrum  G   89 

Smith,  Elder  Winslow  Farr   110 

Smith,  Elder  David  A   158 

Talmage,  Elder  James  E   70 

Whose  Church  Is  It?,  70— The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 


172 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Page 


day  Saints,,  70 — Prone  to  Use  "Mormon"  too  Freely,  71 — Attempts 
of  Small  Sects  to  Use  Nickname,  71 — The  Real  Meaning  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  72 — Great  Power  in  Church,  Regardless  of 
Number,  72 — Illustrations,  73 — Not  Disappointed  in  Small  Num- 
bers, 74. 


There  is  a  Spirit  in  Man,  94 — Material  Hypotheses  Do  Not 
Explain  the  World,  95 — The  Explanation  of  Explanations,  95 — 
All  Acts  Must  Have  Spiritual  Meaning,  96 — Our  Temples  Places 
for  Spiritual  Inspiration,  97 — Temple  Work  a  Sign  of  the  Last 
Days,  98. 

Young,  President  Seymour  B   91 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   153 


Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S. 

Wells,  Elder  John  

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A 


141 
156 
94 


T>ESERET  BOOK 
COMPANY 

44  E.  South  Temple  St. 


We  can  supply  you  with 

BOOKS 

For  all  Departments  of  Sunday  School  Work. 

Young  Men  and  Young  Ladies'  M.  I.  Associa- 
tions, including  Manuals  and  the  New  Read- 
ing Course. 

Text  Books  for  the  Aaronic  and  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  Quorums'  study. 

Church  School  and  Seminary  Text  Books  and 
Books  of  Reference. 

Primary  Association,  Stories  to  tell  Children, 
Short  Stories,  Dialogues,  Recitations,  Speak- 
ers and  Music  Books. 

Books  for  every  day  in  the  year,  especially  for 
Summer  reading — Immense  Lines,  new  and 
attractive. 


SEND  FOR  OUR  NEW  CATALOG  FREE 


Three  Notable  Books 

ESSENTIALS  IN  CHURCH  HISTORY 

BY  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  and  Church  Historian 

A  History  of  the  Church  from  the  birth  of  the  Prophet  to  the 
present  time,  in  ONE  LARGE  VOLUME,  of  700  pages,  suitably 
illustrated  with  portraits  of  the  leaders,  early  scenes  and  docu- 
ments of  historical  value,  and  original  maps,  showing  the  travels 
of  the  Church  from  its  organization  to  its  establishment  in  the 
mountains;  also  the  route  of  the  famous  Mormon  Battalion  to  the 
Pacific  Coast. 

This  book  is  adopted  as  a  text  for  the  study  of  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  and  for  the  Priests  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  for  the 
years  1922  and  1923. 

It  is  well  printed  and  handsomely  bound,  and  will  be  sold  at 
the  special  low  price  of  $1.50. 

"A  Guide  to  the  study  of  Essentials  in  Church  History"  con- 
taining lessons  for  the  entire  volume  and  arranged  for  a  two 
years'  course,  each  15c,  Doz.  $1.50. 

SATURDAY  NIGHT  THOUGHTS 

A  Series  of  Dissertations  on  Spiritual,  Historical  and  Philosophical  Themes. 
BY  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

The  book  is  designated  for  use  in  L.  D.  S.  schools  and  sem- 
inaries, but  as  the  Themes  in  this  work  are  calculated  to  stim- 
ulate study  and  deep  reflection  of  Gospel  truths,  it  will  be  prized 
by  the  thoughtful  reader  everywhere.  Handsomely  bound  in 
cloth,  $1.00. 

Prophecies  of  Joseph  Smith  and  Their  Fulfillment 

«        BY  NEPHI  LOWELL  MORRIS 

Was  Joseph  Smith  a  Prophet?  What  answers  come  from  the 
century  that  has  rolled  by  since  he  beheld  his  first  vision?  Have 
the  Latter-day  Saints  misplaced  faith  in  him?  After  the  progress 
of  a  hundred  years,  what  has  Time  done  with  his  claims  to  the 
title  of  a  Prophet? 

In  order  to  make  plain  the  outcome  of  Time  the  author  has 
dug  up  old  and  forgotten  manuscripts  and  prints  which  he  lays 
before  his  readers,  with  photographic  reproductions  of  the  orig- 
inals.   Price,  $1.25. 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

44-4648  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE  SALT  LAKE  CITY 

SEND  FOR  OUR  NEW  CATALOG  FREE 


