Om.  dtundted,  Tumiesudh, 
SEMI-ANNUAL 

COnfERfllCE 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

OdtobsJi.  1, 2  and.  3,  1%8 

With  Report  of  Discourses 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-Day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 


26l  Zl  ariisuL . . . 

"THE  ENIGMA  OF  PALMYRA" 

For  more  than  100  years  vigorous,  but  futile  attempts  have 
been  made  to  explain  him  away,  only  to  be  rejected,  dis- 
credited or  abandoned. 

One  explanation  survives  the  tests  of  time  and  truth.  Read  it, 
and  its  many-sided  manifestations  in  these  books: 

JOSEPH  SMITH,  AN  AMERICAN  PROPHET.  ..$3.25 


By  John  Henry  Evans 

JOSEPH  SMITH,  THE  PROPHET  $3.25 

By  Preston  Nibley 

TEACHINGS  OF  THE  PROPHET 

JOSEPH  SMITH   $2.75 

By  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

PROPHECIES  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH  AND 

THEIR  FULFILLMENT   $1.75 

By  Nephi  L  Morris 


One  significant  and  irrroressive  fact  about  him  is  the  caliber 
of  men  whose  love  and  loyaltv  he  won,  and  what  they  ac- 
complished under  the  motivation  and  enthusiasm  of  their 


testimonies: 

BRIGHAM  YOUNG,  THE  MAN  AND 

HIS  WORK   $2.75 

By  Preston  Nibley 

BRIGHAM  YOUNG,  THE  COLONIZER   $3.00 

By  Milton  R.  Hunter 

HEBER  C.  KIMBALL  $3.00 

By  Orson  F.  Whitney 

DANIEL  HANMER  WELLS   $2.50 

By  Bryant  S.  Hinckley 

EZRA  T.  BENSON   $3.00 


By  John  Henry  Evans  and  Minnie  Egan  Anderson 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 
44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


The  One  Hundred  Nineteenth  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 

The  One  Hundred  Nineteenth  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Taber- 
nacle, Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday^  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  October 
1,  2,  and  3,  1948. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  Conference  were  held  at  10:00  a.m. 
and  2:00  p.m.,  Friday,  Saturday  and  Sunday,  and  the  General  Priest- 
hood meeting  was  held  Saturday  evening  at  7:00. 

The  Church,  of  the  Air  broadcast  ( a  copy  of  which  is  included  in 
this  record)  was  presented  Sunday  morning,  October  3,  at  8:30  over 
Radio  Station  KSL  and  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast,  which  was  pre- 
sented over  KSL  and,  through  the  courtesy  and  facilities  of  Colum- 
bia Broadcasting  Company's  system,  throughout  the  United  States, 
on  Sunday  morning  at  9:30,  is  also  made  a  part  of  this  report. 

Television  equipment  having  been  installed  in  the  Assembly 
Hall,  on  the  Tabernacle  Grounds,  those  who  assembled  in  that  build- 
ing were  enabled  to  see  and  hear  the  speakers  and  those  who  ren- 
dered musical  numbers. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  was  present  and  presided  at 
each  of  the  sessions.  He  conducted  the  services  at  each  of  the  meet- 
ings, with  the  exception  of  the  Friday  afternoon  meeting,  which  was 
conducted  by  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and  the  Saturday  morn- 
ing meeting,  which  was  conducted  by  President  David  O.  McKay. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  Present 

The  First  Presidency :  George  Albert  Smith,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr., 
and  David  O.  McKay.  ' 

The  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  George  F.  Richards,  Jo- 
seph Fielding  Smith,  Stephen  L  Richards,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph 

F.  Merrill,  Albert  E.  Bowen,  Harold  B.  Lee,  Spencer  W.  Kimball*, 
Ezra  Taft  Benson,  Mark  E.  Petersen,  Matthew  Cowley,  and  Henry 
D.  Moyle. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G.  Smith. 

Of  the  Assistants  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles :  Marion 

G.  Romney,  Thomas  E.  McKay,  Clifford  E.  Young,** 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy:  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine 

*  Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  was  absent  from  most  of  the  sessions 
of  the  Conference  convalescing  from  illness. 
**Elder  Alma  Sonne  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  European 
Mission. 


2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  Octobcc  1  First  Day 

R.  Ivins,  Richard  L.  Evans,  Oscar  A.  Kirkham,***,  Milton  R.  Hunt- 
er, and  Bruce  R.  McConkie. 

The  Presiding  Bishopric:  LeGrand  Richards,  Joseph  L.  Wirth- 
lin,  and  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson. 

Officers  and  Other  Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  A. 
William  Lund,  Assistant. 

Members  of  the  General  Welfare  Committee,  Church  Welfare 
Program. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education,  Commissioner  of 
Education,  and  Seminary  Supervisor. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Counselors,  Bishops  of  Wards 
and  their  Counselors,  Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs,  High 
Priests,  Seventies,  General,  Stake,  and  Ward  officers  of  Auxiliary 
Associations,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  Conference  commenced  Friday  morning,  October  1,  at 
10:00,  with  President  George  Albert  Smith  presiding  and  conduct- 
ing the  services. 

Every  seat  in  the  great  Tabernacle  auditorium  and  galleries  was 
occupied,  and  in  addition  many  people  found  accommodation  in  the 
Assembly  Hall,  directly  south  of  the  Tabernacle,  where  they  listened 
to  and  watched  the  proceedings  by  means  of  a  loud-speaking  system 
and  television. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

This  is  a  glorious  sight  and  we  welcome  you  to  the  house  of  the 
Lord  at  the  beginning  of  our  conference  that  will  now  extend  for 
three  days.  The  Relief  Society  had  this  building  filled  to  overflow- 
ing yesterday,  a  wonderful  group  of  women,  and  I  am  sure  they  had 
a  happy  time.  Now,  we  follow  up  today  with  the  General  Confer- 
ence, and  I  am  assuming  that  each  of  us  has  come  to  worship.  We 
are  here  to  wait  upon  the  Lord,  and  he  has  promised  us  that  his  Spirit 
would  always  be  with  us  when  we  do  that. 

Our  program  this  morning,  so  that  you  may  understand  what  we 
are  going  to  do,  will  be  as  follows : 

This  is  the  opening  session  of  the  119th  Semi- Annual  Confer- 

***Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  New 
England  Mission. 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  3 


ence  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are 
convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah. 

There  are  on  the  stand  this  morning  all  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church  except  Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  who  is  convalesc- 
ing at  home  under  his  doctor's  orders;  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  who  is  in 
Europe  in  charge  of  the  European  Missions;  and  President  S.  Dil- 
worth  Young,  President  of  the  New  England  Mission. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  is  the  Clerk  of  the  Conference. 

This  full  service  will  be  broadcast  over  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  as  will  also  the  service  this  afternoon,  beginning  at  2:00  p.m.; 
likewise  the  services  tomorrow,  Saturday,  at  10:00  a.m.,  and  2:00 
p.m.;  and  also  the  two  services  on  Sunday  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00 
p.m.  By  arrangement  through  KSL,  these  same  sessions  will  be 
broadcast  over  the  following  stations:  KDSH  at  Boise,  KSUB  at 
Cedar  City,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at  Pocatello,  KSVC  at  Rich- 
field, KJAM  at  Vernal,  and  over  KTYL  at  Mesa  by  transcription. 

These  services  will  also  be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  over 
a  loud  speaking  system  and  by  television.  All  general  sessions  of 
the  Conference  will  be  heard  and  seen  in  the  Assembly  Hall  in  the 
same  way. 

Any  messages  and  calls  that  come  to  us  from  persons  supposed 
to  be  in  attendance  at  the  Conference  will  be  announced  at  the  dis- 
missal of  this  meeting  over  the  loud"  speaking  system  on  the  grounds. 
Everyone  would  do  well  to  listen  carefully  to  such  announcements. 

The  choir  singing  during  today's  sessions  will  be  by  the  Relief 
Society  Singing  Mothers  of  the  Salt  Lake  Region.  Sister  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen  is  the  conductor;  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  the 
organist. 

The  first  song  will  be:  "Come,  Come  Ye  Saints,"  sung  by  the 
Choir  and  congregation,  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  James  E.  Ririe 
of  the  East  Rigby  Stake,  Rigby,  Idaho. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn:  "Come,  Come  Ye 
Saints." 

President  James  E.  Ririe  of  the  East  Rigby  Stake  offered  the 
invocation. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  of  the  Salt  Lake  Region 
sang:  "O  Come,  Let  Us  Worship." 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  appreciate  the  fact  that  there  are  many  people  who  come  to 
this  house  from  time  to  time  who  do  not  realize  what  a  blessing  a 
gathering  of  this  kind  means  to  those  who  attend.  As  your  first 
speaker  this  morning,  and  for  the  benefit  of  the  radio  audience,  I 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


will  say,  George  Albert  Smith,  the  President  of  the  Church  will 
now  speak. 


I  announce  to  you  that  you  can  find  nowhere  else  in  all  the 
world  a  gathering  comparable  to  this  one.  We  have  had  two  days 
of  meetings  on  this  block.  This  house  has  been  filled  with  women 
of  the  Relief  Society  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  gathered  here,  representing  the  stakes  and  missions  of  the 
Church.  They  represent  the  oldest  women's  religious  organiza- 
tion in  the  world.  They  came,  not  on  a  sight-seeing  trip,  but  to 
worship,  and  to  be  instructed.  They  came  here  to  the  house  of  the 
Lord  knowing  that  if  they  were  assembled  under  proper  conditions, 
they  would  be  blessed.  Their  two  days  of  mingling  and  rejoicing 
together  have  prepared  the  way  for  this  other  great  general  confer- 
ence. 

This  conference  will  continue  three  days,  and  during  that  time 
it  will  be  remarkable  if  all  the  seats  in  the  building  are  not  taken  and 
people  standing,  and  in  addition  to  that  the  Assembly  Hall,  which 
has  been  equipped  with  radio  television,  will  take  care  of  an  over- 
flow as  far  as  possible,  and  also  the  open  air  will  be  enjoyed  by 
many  people  listening  to  the  amplified  program  outside. 

As  I  came  in  this  morning  and  saw  this  wonderful  audience, 
these  beautiful  flowers,  our  sisters  here  representing  a  great  organiza- 
tion, the  Singing  Mothers,  I  feft  subdued  in  my  soul  and  thankful 
to  my  Heavenly  Father  that  it  is  possible  for  me  to  meet  with  you 
today.  When  we  think  of  the  disturbances  that  are  in  the  world, 
the  uncertainty  that  is  in  the  minds  of  individuals  everywhere  as  to 
what  may  occur,  we  are  grateful  to  come  into  the  Lord's  house  as 
we  do  this  morning,  a  house  that  was  dedicated  to  him  in  the  days 
of  the  poverty  of  our  people,  a  house  that  has  been  recognized  as  un- 
usual among  all  the  houses  of  worship  in  all  the  world,  and  from 
this  tabernacle  every  Sabbath  day  there  goes  forth  a  broadcast  to 
all  the  states  of  the  American  Union  and  to  many  parts  of  the  world 
in  other  lands,  a  broadcast  of  religious  music  and  a  sermonette.  Not 
anything  to  compare  with  this  program  can  be  found  anywhere. 
These  singers  voluntarily  come  here  every  Sunday  to  render  these 
programs. 


For  twenty  years  this  great  choir  has  been  rendering  service 
to  the  delight  and  the  spiritual  uplift  of  hundreds  of  thousands, 
yes,  millions  of  people,  by  means  of  radio,  and  the  choir  itself  re- 
ceives no  compensation.  This  organ,  when  it  was  built,  was  one  of 
the  great  organs  of  the  world  and  still  is,  and  it  has  been  heard 
in  many  lands.  Personally  I  have  had  the  pleasure  of  hearing  it  and 
the  choir  while  visiting  in  the  missions  in  the  South  Seas  and  other 


Relief  Society  Conference 


Service  of  Tabernacle  Choir 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  5 


places.  They  are  devoting  their  time,  every  Sunday,  singing  praises 
to  our  Heavenly  Father,  causing  his  children  everywhere  to  rejoice. 

Here  in  Salt  Lake  City  a  large  percentage  of  the  population 
are  not  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
but  thousands  of  them  listen  to  this  program  and  seem  to  have  joy 
in  telling  us  that  they  feel  that  it  is  a  rich,  spiritual  uplift  to  them. 

Missionary  Work 

This  morning  we  have  over  five  thousand  missionaries  scattered 
throughout  the  world.  For  what  purpose?  "Surely,"  as  one  minister 
said  to  me  in  England  many  years  ago,  "we  don't  desire  you  to 
come  over  here  to  preach;  we  have  all  the  churches  that  we  can 
fill."  And  he  said,  "We  have  all  the  preachers  that  we  can  afford 
to  pay.    Why  do"  you  come  over  here?" 

And  my  answer  to  him  was,  "My  brother,  we  are  over  here 
withbut  financial  remuneration  to  share  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
with  the  wonderful  people  who  dwell  in  this  part  of  the  world." 

He  asked,  "Why  don't  you  go  to  the  heathens  like  we  do?" 
And  I  answered,  "We  do."  He  asked,  "Where  do  you  go?"  And 
I  said,  "We  come  right  here." 

He  looked  somewhat  annoyed,  and  I  said  to  him,  "Now  don't 
be  disturbed,  my  brother.  That  isn't  intended  as  an  offense  at  all. 
There  are  no  finer  people  in  the  world  than  you  have  here,  but  what 
is  a  heathen  anyhow?" 

With  some  hesitation  he  answered,  "Well,  a  heathen  is  a  man 
who  doesn't  believe  in  the  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob,  and 
Jesus  Christ." 

I  said,  "Do  you  have  any  people  like  that  here  in  Great  Britain?" 

He  dropped  his  head  and  said,  "Yes,  I  am  sorry  to  say  we  have." 

Then  I  said,  "Surely  you  are  not  going  to  complain  about  us 
if  we  come  over  here  to  help  you  convert  them.  You  haven't  been 
able  to  do  it,  and  that  is  why  we  are  here.  We  want  them  all  to 
understand  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ." 

Today  our  five  thousand  missionaries  are  scattered  over  the 
face  of  the  earth,  paying  their  own  expenses  or  having  them  paid 
by  their  loved  ones  at  home,  and  the  sole  purpose  of  that  great  mis- 
sionary effort  is  that  all  of  your  brothers  and  sisters  and  mine,  all 
of  the  children  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  may  be  brought  to  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  purpose  of  life  and  be  given  understanding  of  what 
it  means  to  be  born  into  this  world  and  to  know  that  we  are  living 
eternal  lives.  The  entire  world  is  a  marvelous  missionary  field  for 
this  great  Church!  There  are  some  nations  in  which  we  have  been 
unable  to  do  missionary  work,  but  the  Lord  in  his  own  way,  will 
provide  for  doing  that.  And,  of  course,  many  people  hear  the  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ  by  means  of  radio,  who  wouldn't  otherwise  hear 
it. 


6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  1  First  Day 

Center  of  Missionary  Activity 

Speaking  of  the  missionary  field,  I  wonder  sometimes,  if  we 
realize  that  Salt  Lake  City  is  the  center  of  our  great  missionary  acti- 
vity. There  isn't  a  city  in  the  world,  in  my  judgment,  that  is  better 
known  than  this  city  because  of  the  temple,  the  Tabernacle,  and  the 
great  organ  and  choir  broadcasting  as  they  have  been  every  Sunday 
for  nearly  twenty  years.  Salt  Lake  City  is  one  of  the  world's  most 
beautiful  cities. 

I  wonder  if  some  of  you  realize  the  hours  and  the  days  and 
the  months  that  are  spent  by  your  brothers  under  the  direction  of 
President  Irvin  T.  Nelson  of  the  Big  Cottonwood  Stake  beautifying 
the  grounds,  making  the  flowers  to  bloom  and  the  shrubs  to  be  de- 
lightful, the  lawns  to  be  kept  green.  I  would  like  those  brethren  who 
do  that  fine  work  to  know  that  many  of  us  appreciate  it  very  much. 
They  are  helping  the  people  who  come  here  to  become  interested  in 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  many  of  them  say,  "Why  we  never 
saw  anything  like  this  any  place  else,"  and  they  go  away  and  tell  their 
neighbors  and  friends. 

Wherever  I  go,  it  seems  to  be  in  the  minds  of  people,  many  of 
them,  and  they  say,  "I'm  going  to  Salt  Lake  City  some  day.  I  want 
to  go  out  there  and  see  what  you  people  have  accomplished  in  the 
wilderness."  We  haven't  done  it  all,  brethren  and  sisters.  This 
is  the  Lord's  Church.  He  gave  it  the  name  of  his  Beloved  Son. 
He  directed  the  pioneers  to  come  here.  He  didn't  send  them  some 
place  else,  and,  under  his  guidance,  and  under  his  inspiration,  the 
people  have  lived  out  here  and,  with  his  blessing,  the  soil  has  been 
made  fruitful,  and  there  is  no  more  beautiful  place  in  all  the  world 
that  is  occupied  as  homes  by  the  sons  and  daughters  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  than  the  section  of  country  that  you  live  in.  Surely  we  should 
be  grateful. 

Referring  to  the  missionary  work,  think  of  sending  more  than 
five  thousand  into  the  world  to  teach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to 
people  who  believe  that  they  already  have  it,  and  yet  when  they 
compare  what  the  Lord  has  revealed  in  this  latter-day  in  addition 
to  what  they  already  have,  they  discover  that  it  took  the  revelations 
of  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  our  day  to  make  the 
Bible,  the  Old  and  the  New  Testaments,  plain  to  these  people. 

Conversion  Through  Book  of  Mormon 

I  remember  a  good  many  years  ago  when  I  was  down  in  Cali- 
fornia, I  met  a  man  who  was  a  great  geologist,  whose  name  was 
Robert  Hill.  While  being  employed  in  research  in  Mexico  and 
Central  America  by  the  Smithsonian  Institute  or  National  Museum, 
a  Book  of  Mormon  fell  into  his  hands,  and  he  read  it.  He  was  work- 
ing under  the  direction  of  the  department  at  Washington,  where 
they  collect  all  of  the  curiosities  from  the  various  sections  of  the 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  7 

country.  He  was  there  as  a  government  employee.  The  National 
Museum,  I  presume,  is  where  much  of  the  material  may  be  found. 

When  he  read  the  Book  of  Mormon  he  asked  for  a  leave  of 
absence.  He  came  to  Salt  Lake  City  and  inquired  for  somebody 
who  would  indicate  to  him  the  source  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  for 
he  said,  "This  book  explains  some  things  that  the  scientists  are  un- 
able to  harmonize."  Dr.  James  E.  Talmage  took  him  in  hand  and 
informed  him  as  to  the  source  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  how  it  had 
been  revealed,  how  the  people  had  come  here  under  the  direction  of 
of  our  Heavenly  Father  and  built  up  this  country.  Before  Robert 
Hill  left,  he  said,  "This  is  what  I  have  been  looking  for,"  and  he 
was  baptized  and  became  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  He  returned  to  Mexico,  and  I  saw  him  later  in  Los 
Angeles.  When  I  asked  him  what  effect  the  Book  of  Mormon  had 
on  his  life,  he  said,  "Why,  Brother  Smith,  it  enabled  me  to  under- 
stand the  Bible  as  I  have  never  understood  it  before." 

There  have  been  distributed  hundreds  of  thousands  of  tracts 
and  books  teaching  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  expense  for 
which  has  been  paid  by  the  Church  and  its  members  in  order  that 
other  people  might  enjoy  what  we  enjoy. 

There  isn't  anything  that  enriches  our  lives  like  an  under- 
standing of  the  purposes  of  life  and  the  ability  to  live  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  All  happiness  worthy  of  the  name  comes  to  us  when 
we  observe  the  teachings  of  our  Lord  and  live  to  be  worthy  to  be 
his  sons  and  daughters. 

Visitors  to  Temple  Square  l- 

Since  coming  into  this  building  this  morning  I  have  asked  how 
many  strangers  there  are  who  come  onto  this  block  each  year.  Last 
year  I  had  supposed  was  the  greatest  year  we  have  ever  had  be- 
cause of  the  number  coming  here  during  our  celebration,  but  I  un- 
derstand that  this  year  up  to  today  840,662  of  the  children  of  our 
Heavenly  Father,  your  brothers  and  sisters  and  mine,  have  come  here 
onto  this  block  to  see  and  learn  what  the  Lord  has  done.  I  think  it 
is  marvelous,  and  so  this  morning  as  I  stand  here  in  your  presence, 
I  am  grateful  that  I  belong  to  the  same  organization  that  you  be- 
long to,  grateful  that  all  the  good  things  that  the  world  enjoys,  all 
that  is  true  and  wholesome  and  uplifting  and  educational  may  be 
enjoyed  by  the  membership  of  this  Church  without  having  to  give 
up  one  thing. 

I  have  said  to  many  people  when  they  have  asked  me,  "What  is 
there  about  this  organization  that  you  belong  to?  What  is  it  that 
you  are  so  concerned  about,  that  you  send  your  missionaries  all 
over  the  world?"  I  have  replied  sometimes,  "We  want  you  all  to 
be  happy.  We  want  you  all  to  rejoice  as  we  rejoice.  After  awhile 
we  will  have  to  meet  our  record,  and  if  we  have  been  faithful,  I  am 
sure  the  Father  of  us  all  in  the  world  will  thank  us  and  bless  us  for 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  1  First  Day 

bringing  so  many  of  his  sons  and  daughters  to  an  understanding  of 
the  purpose  of  life  and  how  to  enjoy  it  under  the  influence  of  his 
spirit." 

Obedience  Brings  Blessings 

It  is  glorious  to  live  in  this  part  of  the  world.  I  might  say  it  is 
glorious  to  live  in  this  age  of  the  world  notwithstanding  the  sorrow 
and  distress  and  uncertainty  that  exist.  We  have  received  an  as- 
surance that  our  Heavenly  Father  is  mindful  of  us  if  we  will  be 
faithful.  We  have  no  promise  that  he  will  care  for  us  on  any  other 
terms,  but  he  has  said  that  if  we  will  honor  him  and  keep  his  com-, 
mandments,  he  will  watch  over  us  and  protect  and  bless  us.  I 
think  of  that  lovely  audience  that  I  saw  here  yesterday,  all  our  sis- 
ters, and  now  this  morning  there  is  a  great  mixed  audience  apparently 
mostly  men.  Yet  we  are  only  a  small  portion  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  that  has  become  identified  with  the 
Church  of  the  Lamb  of  God  since  the  year  1830.  It  is  marvelous, 
my  brothers  and  sisters,  what  the  Lord  has  done — and  he  has  done 
it. 

Inspiration  of  General  Conference 

We  will  have  the  pleasure  today  and  during  the  days  to  follow 
of  hearing  quite  a  number  of  those  who  devote  their  time  to  teach- 
ing the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  have  people  here  from  nearly 
all  parts  of  the  Church  throughout  the  world.  Many  have  come 
a  long  way,  not  to  hear  men  speak,  but  to  feel  the  inspiration  of  the 
Almighty  as  it  flows  to  those  who  are  called  to  address  us,  play  for 
us,  and  sing  for  us  in  this  wonderful  house  of  the  Lord. 

I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ. 
And  I  am  thankful  to  know  that  we  are  all  brothers  and  sisters — 
thankful  that  he  gives  us  all  opportunities  so  to  adjust  our  lives 
here  that  when  mortality  is  complete  and  our  work  is  done  that 
we  will  dwell  in  his  presence  and  enjoy  the  companionship  of  those 
we  love  forever.  Shouldn't  that  make  us  feel  that  our  homes  must 
be  the  abiding  place  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord?  Shouldn't  that  make 
each  of  us  feel,  where  we  know  what  the  Lord  has  advised  us  to  do, 
that  it  is  the  best  for  us  and  we  will  do  what  he  wants  us  to  do?  I 
want  to  say  that  the  happiest  people  in  all  the  world  are  those  who 
obey  the  counsel  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

I  pray  that  his  spirit  may  continue  with  us.  I  pray  that  when 
we  have  finished  this  conference,  we  may  go  away  feeling  that  we 
have  waited  upon  our  Heavenly  Father  and  not  in  vain.  We  will 
return  to  our  homes,  sharing  what  we  have  enjoyed  here  with  those 
not  able  to  come,  and  to  our  families  with  a  renewed  determination 
that  we  will  keep  the  commandments  of  God  and  that  we  will  so 
adjust  ourselves  that  our  homes  will  be  the  abiding  place  of  his 
spirit  that  will  guide  us  into  all  truth.    That  the  Lord  may  add  his 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  9 


blessings  and  his  peace  be  with  us,  as  we  go  through  this  conference, 
I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  o/  the  Twelve  Apostles 

It  is  written  that  faith  is  the  first  principle  of  revealed  religion, 
the  foundation  of  all  righteousness.  (See  D.  &  C.  Lectures  on  Faith 
1:1.)  This  being  true,  all  our  righteousness  is  due  to  faith,  and 
it  follows  that  our  unrighteousness  is  due  to  a  lack  of  faith.  We 
desire  in  preaching  the  gospel  to  the  Saints  and  strangers  alike  to 
establish  as  far  as  possible  faith  in  the  minds  and  the  hearts  of 
people  that  they  may  bring  forth  righteousness,  for  righteousness 
is  what  makes  for  salvation  in  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  we  are  all 
candidates  for  salvation. 

Evidences  of  God's  Existence 

In  my  remarks  today,  I  desire  to  speak  of  some  of  the  evidences 
of  the  divine,  personal,  and  glorified  existence  of  God,  the  Eternal 
Father,  and  of  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  a  knowledge  of  whom  I  re- 
gard as  the  world's  greatest  need;  also  to  give  evidence  of  the 
fact  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  divinely  inspired  prophet  of  God, 
that  he  was  an  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  in  the  restoration 
of  the  everlasting  gospel,  and  the  establishment  of  the  Church 
and  kingdom  of  God  on  earth  in  this,  the  gospel  Dispensation  of 
the  Fulness  of  Times. 

Joseph  Smith's  First  Vision 

On  a  beautiful  spring  morning  in  the  year  1820,  a  fourteen- 
year-old  boy  of  Manchester,  New  York,  being  considerably  ex- 
ercised over  religion,  and  believing  the  scripture  which  reads: 

If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all 
men  liberally,  and  upbraideth  not;  and  it  shall  be  given  him  (James  1:5) 

retired  into  a  grove  of  trees  nearby  to  pray.  He  tells  his  own 
story  as  follows: 

After  I  had  retired  to  the  place  where  I  had  previously  designed  to 
go,  having  looked  around  me,  and  finding  myself  alone,  I  kneeled  down 
and  began  to  offer  up  the  desires  of  my  heart  to  God.  I  had  scarcely  done 
so,  when  immediately  I  was  seized  upon  by  some  power  which  entirely 
overcame  me,  and  had  such  an  astonishing  influence  over  me  as  to  bind 
my  tongue  so  that  I  could  not  speak.  Thick  darkness  gathered  around 
me,  and  it  seemed  to  me  for  a  time  as  if  I  were  doomed  to  sudden  destruc- 
tion. 

But,  exerting  all  my  powers  to  call  upon  God  to  deliver  me  out  of 
the  power  of  this  enemy  which  had  seized  upon  me,  and  at  the  very 
moment  when  I  was  ready  to  sink  into  despair  and  abandon  myself  to 
destruction — not  to  an  imaginary  ruin,  but  to  the  power  of  some  actual 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  1  First  Day 

being  from  the  unseen  world,  who  had  such  marvelous  power  as  I  had 
never  before  felt  in  any  being — just  at  this  moment  of  great  alarm,  I  saw 
a  pillar  of  light  exactly  over  my  head,  above  the  brightness  of  the  sun, 
which  descended  gradually  until  it  fell  upon  me. 

It  no  sooner  appeared  than  I  found  myself  delivered  from  the  enemy 
which  held  me  bound.  When  the  light  rested  upon  me  I  saw  two  Person- 
ages, whose  brightness  and  glory  defy  all  description,  standing  above  me 
in  the  air.  One  of  them  spake  unto  me,  calling  me  by  name,  and  said, 
pointing  to  the  other — This  is  My  Beloved  Son.  Hear  Him! 

jjly  object  in  going  to  inquire  of  the  Lord  was  to  know  which  of  all 
the  sects  was  right,  that  I  might  know  which  to  join.  No  sooner,  there- 
fore, did  I  get  possession  of  myself,  so  as  to  be  able  to  speak,  than  I  asked 
the  Personages  who  stood  above  me  in  the  light,  which  of  all  the  sects  was 
right — and  which  I  should  join. 

I  was  answered  that  I  must  join  none  of  them,  for  they  were  all 
wrong;  and  the  Personage  who  addressed  me  said  that  all  their  creeds 
were  an  abomination  in  his  sight;  that  those  professors  were  all  corrupt; 
that:  "they  draw  near  to  me  with  their  lips,  but  their  hearts  are  far 
from  me;  they  teach  for  doctrines  the  commandments  of  men,  having  a 
form  of  godliness,  but  they  deny  the  power  thereof." 
He  again  forbade  me  to  join  with  any  of  them.  .  .  .  (Pearl  of  Great  Price, 
Joseph  Smith  2:15-20.) 

It  is  of  supreme  importance  that  the  story  told  by  this  boy 
Joseph  Smith,  and  the  evidence  of  its  truth,  be  carefully  and  prayer- 
fully considered,  for  upon  the  truth  or  falsity  of  his  story,  Mor- 
monism,  so-called,  must  stand  or  fall. 

Truth  Concerning  God  Revealed 

In  this  eventful  experience  there  was  revealed  to  the  boy 
Joseph,  and  through  him,  to  the  world,  two  exceedingly  important 
truths.  First,  that  God  the  Eternal  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ  are  separate,  living  personages,  glorified  and  exalted;  and 
second,  that  all  the  religious  creeds  were  wrong. 

Whatever  Joseph's  views  or  understanding  pertaining  to  the 
personality  of  God  the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  may  have 
been,  he  now  had  a  perfect  knowledge  on  that  point.  He  had  not 
before  entertained  the  thought  that  all  the  creeds  or  denominations 
might  be  wrong,  but  on  these  two  points  his  mind  was  now  clear 
and  at  ease. 

The  debris  of  a  decayed  religion  having  now  been  removed, 
room  is  made  in  the  world  for  the  establishment  of  the  true  re- 
ligion of  the  Master.  It  later  developed  that  this  boy,  Joseph  Smith, 
was  raised  up  of  the  Lord  to  be  the  mighty  prophet  of  the  last 
days,  an  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  in  the  restoration  of  the 
everlasting  gospel,  and  in  the  establishment  of  his  Church  and 
kingdom  anew  upon  the  earth,  as  described  by  Daniel  the  prophet 
in  his  interpretation  of  the  dream  of  King  Nebuchadnezzar. 

o: ',  Evil  Power  of  Satan 

i  As  important  evidence  that  Joseph's  story  is  true,  when  he 
kneeled  down  to  pray,  he  was  seized  upon  by  an  evil  power  which 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  11 


bound  his  tongue,  so  that  he  could  not  speak.  Such  an  attack 
by  Satan  might  well  have  been  expected. 

If  his  story  had  not  included  his  experience  with  the  evil  power, 
at  that  psychological  moment,  it  would  have  lacked  vital  evidence 
of  its  truth.  Satan,  who  is  the  enemy  of  God  and  of  man,  has 
from  the  beginning  thus  operated  in  an  effort  to  defeat  the  purpose 
of  God  whose  purpose  is  the  saving  of  the  souls  of  men. 

When  Adam  and  Eve  were  placed  in  the  Garden  of  Eden, 
straightway  came  Satan  tempting  them,  with  the  same  evil  intent. 
After  the  personal  visitation  of  God  to  his  servant  Moses,  as  re- 
corded in  the  first  chapter  of  the  Book  of  Moses,  Satan  came 
tempting  him,  saying: 

Moses,  son  of  man,  worship  me  .  .  .  (Moses  1:12) 

a  presumption  of  which  only  Satan  could  be  capable. 

When  the  Savior  had  fasted  forty  days  and  nights  and  was 
an  hungred,  Satan  came  tempting  him,  saying: 

...  If  thou  be  the  Son  of  God,  command  this  stone  that  it  be  made 
bread.  (Luke  4:3.) 

In  what  respect  was  the  boy,  Joseph  Smith,  so  different  from 
other  fourteen-year-old  boys  of  his  time  that  Satan  should  seek 
his  destruction;  and  why  mention  him  in  connection  with  Adam 
and  Eve,  Moses,  and  Jesus  as  objects  of  Satan's  attack?  Let  us 
see  if  we  can  find  the  explanation  in  the  following  scripture: 

Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto  me,  Abraham,  the  intelligences  that 
were  organized  before  the  world  was;  and  among  all  these  were  many  of 
the  noble  and  great  ones; 

And  God  saw  these  souls  that  they  were  good,  and  he  stood  in  the 
midst  of  them,  and  he  said:  These  I  will  make  my  rulers;  for  he  stood 
among  those  that  were  spirits,  and  he  saw  that  they  were  good;  and  he 
said  unto  me:  Abraham,  thou  art  one  of  them;  thou  wast  chosen  before 
thou  wast  born.  (Abraham  3:22-23.) 

Joseph  Smith  Chosen  for  His  Work 

Joseph  Smith  was  also  one  of  those  noble  spirits  chosen  before 
he  was  born.  Had  any  number  of  boys  fourteen  years  of  age, 
other  than  Joseph  Smith,  gone  into  the  woods  to  pray  for  light 
and  spiritual  guidance,  not  one  of  them  would  have  had  the  vision 
given  to  the  boy  Joseph.  He  was  chosen  and  ordained  for  the 
special  work  of  restoration,  and  this  vision  of  the  Father  and  the 
Son  was  the  first  step  in  his  life's  ministry.  No  doubt  Satan  knew 
of  Joseph's  calling,  and  that  if  he  did  not  succeed  in  destroying 
him  at  this  time,  he  would  not  be  able  to  do  so  thereafter;  hence 
the  vigorous  assault  made  upon  the  boy's  life. 

Again,  by  the  testimony  of  the  eleven  living  witnesses  to  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  the  truth  of  Joseph's  story  is  established,  for 
had  his  story  been  untrue,  he  would  have  been  a  great  imposter 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


and  as  such,  God  would  not  have  used  him  in  bringing  forth  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  which  contains  a  fulness  of  the  gospel,  as  taught 
by  Jesus  Christ  to  the  ancient  inhabitants  of  this  American  conti- 
nent, which  fact  is  logically  established  by  eleven  living  witnesses. 


The  need  of  this  new  revelation  of  God  today,  as  in  1820,  is 
apparent  from  statements  such  as  follows: 

In  a  radio  address  Elder  Thomas  C.  Romney  related  a  con- 
versation with  a  professor  in  a  great  educational  institution  in 
which  the  professor  said  to  Elder  Romney: 

Your  conception  of  God,  to  me,  is  jnost  absurd.  I  cannot  conceive 
of  a  group  of  people  who  claim  to  keep  abreast  of  the  times  in  science, 
art,  and  religion,  still  clinging  to  the  antiquated  doctrine  that  God  is  in 
the  form  of  a  man. 

On  page  15  of  Shorter  Catechism,  a  textbook  of  the  Presby- 
terian Church,  is  found  the  following: 

We  must  be  content  to  call  Father,  Son,  and  Holy  Ghost  persons; 
but  while  we  do  so,  we  must  always  remember  that  they  are  utterly 
unlike  any  personalities  we  have  ever  known.  In  modern  philosophical 
usage,  the  term  person  means  a  separate  and  distinct  rational  individual. 
But  the  personality  of  God  is  not  a  numerical  or  essential  trinity  of 


Another  reference  showing  the  need  for  a  new  revelation  from 
God  is  the  following: 

The  Bishop  of  Liverpool  performed  the  consecration  ceremony  at 
Holy  Trinity  Church,  Southport,  yesterday,  October  11,  1911.  In  his 
sermon  he  said  one  of  the  great  needs  of  the  Christian  Church  was 
power.  Religion  today  was  wearing  silver  slippers  and  moving  in  high 
places,  and  yet  he  ventured  to  think  there  was  a  strange  want  of  power 
about  the  Church  of  God,  not  only  in  their  church,  but  about  every  other 
branch.  .  .  .  What  was  the  cause  of  the  strange  paralysis  that  had  be- 
fallen the  church?  He  believed  that  the  church  needed  today  a  redis- 
covery of  God;  he  believed  the  church  was  weak  today  because  God 
was  so  distant,  so  unreal,  so  dimly  seen.  Today  they  saw  the  results 
of  that  dim  vision  of  the  distant  God. 

The  first  article  of  religion  in  the  Church  of  England  Prayer 
book  reads  as  follows: 

There  is  one  living  and  true  God,  everlasting,  without  body,  parts, 
or  passions;  of  infinite  wisdom,  power,  and  goodness;  the  maker  and  pre- 
server of  all  things,  visible  and  invisible,  and  in  the  unity  of  this  god- 
head, there  are  three  personages  of  one  substance,  power,  and  eternity, 
the  Father,  the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost. 


There  are  some  men  of  considerable  eminence  who  are  not 
bound  by  religious  creeds,  who  are  frank  in  their  professions  of 
belief  in  the  personality  of  God,  and  their  views  should  be 


Need  of  New  Revelation 


Personality  of  God 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  13 


weighed  in  this  connection  as  in  opposition  to  the  views  of  those 
who  do  not  believe  in  a  personal  God.    For  example: 

In  a  discourse  by  President  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  delivered  in 
this  Tabernacle  March  15,  1914,  he  quotes  a  statement  made  by 
William  H.  Gladstone,  a  great  English  statesman,  and  at  one  time 
prime  minister  of  Great  Britain,  in  response  to  the  question  put 
to  him  as  to  what  he  regarded  as  the  world's  greatest  need;  and 
his  answer  to  that  question  in  substance  was  that  the  world's 
greatest  need  was  to  hold  more  firmly  to  the  conception  of  God  as  a 
personality,  to  whom  man  was  accountable  for  his  deeds.  Said  he: 

I  mean  a  living  faith  in  a  personal  God.    After  sixty  years  of 

public  life,  I  hold  more  strongly  than  ever  to  the  conviction,  deepened 

and  strengthened  by  long  experience,  of  the  reality,  and  the  nearness, 
and  the  personality  of  God. 

Henry  Ward  Beecher,  in  his  book  entitled,  Lectures  on  Preach- 
ing, page  129,  says: 

I  am  compelled  to  say  that  I  must  form  an  ideal  of  God,  through 
his  Son  Jesus  Christ.  Christ  is  indispensible  to  me.  My  nature  needs 
to  fashion  the  thought  of  God,  though  I  know  him  to  be  a  spirit,  into 
something  that  will  nearly  or  remotely  represent  that  which  I  know.  I 
hold  before  my  eyes  a  glorified  form,  therefore,  but  after  all  this 
glory,  whatever  may  be  the  nimbus  and  the  effulgence  round  about  it, 
it  is  to  me  a  glorified  form  of  a  glorified  man. 

The  first  Article  of  Faith  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  reads  as  follows: 

We  believe  in  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  and  in  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ, 
and  in  the  Holy  Ghost. 

What  we  believe  concerning  these  members  of  the  Godhead 
is  set  forth  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  section  130:22,  as 
follows: 

The  Father  has  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones  as  tangible  as  man's; 
the  Son  also;  but  the  Holy  Ghost  has  not  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones,  but 
is  a  personage  of  Spirit.  .  .  . 

These  latter  quotations  and  interpretations  are  in  complete 
harmony  with  Joseph  Smith's  vision  and  with  the  teachings  of  the 
Bible,  both  the  Old  and  the  New  Testament,  and  cannot  be  suc- 
cessfully controverted.  They  are  truths  which  all  men  must 
accept  who  would  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God;  and  to  which 
I  bear  testimony,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  and  the  congregation  joined 
in  singing  the  hymn:  'We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For  a  Prophet." 


14  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Ptiday,  October  1  First  Day 

ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a  real  inspiration  to  look 
into  the  faces  of  so  many  people  as  are  assembled  in  this  vast  con- 
gregation. I  do  humbly  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  God  will  attend 
me  in  the  few  remarks  that  I  make  on  this  occasion.  It  is  my  de- 
sire this  morning,  with  the  help  of  the  Lord,  to  say  a  few  words 
which  will  supplement  the  beautiful  talk  just  given  by  President 
George  F.  Richards. 

The  Character  of  God 

It  is  my  sincere  desire  to  bear  my  testimony  and  say  a  few 
words  regarding  the  Latter-day  Saints'  concept  of  God  the  Eternal 
Father,  whom  we  as  members  of  the  true  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
so  devotedly,  humbly,  and  prayerfully  worship. 

Shortly  before  his  death,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  stated 

that: 

It  is  the  first  principle  of  the  gospel  to  know  for  a  certainty  the 
character  of  God.    (Teachings  o[  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  p.  345.) 

We  read  in  the  gospel  of  John  (and  a  similar  statement  is 
recorded  in  modern  revelation)  that: 

.  .  .  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee  the  only  true  God, 
and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent.  (John  17:3;  see  D.  &  C.  132:24.) 

From  these  statements  made  by  holy  men  through  divine 
revelation,  we  find  that  the  concept  of  God  that  a  people  have 
is  very  important  in  helping  to  determine  the  type  of  life  that  they 
live.  History  affirms  that  when  any  group  of  people  have  had 
as  their  belief  the  concept  that  God  was  a  God  of  love,  charity, 
and  kindness;  in  other  words,  when  they  have  accepted  God  as  a 
divine  Being  possessing  all  of  the  characteristics  of  goodness  in 
an  infinite  portion,  those  people  have  tried  to  emulate  in  their  lives 
that  type  of  Deity.  On  the  other  hand,  when  a  group  of  people 
have  believed  that  the  Eternal  Father  was  a  God  of  caprice,  a 
God  who  is  unjust  and  prone  to  play  favoritism,  we  find  that 
those  people  have  resorted  to  very  low  forms  and  modes  of  worship, 
such  as  human  sacrifice.  In  fact,  their  moral  behavior  was  on  the 
same  plane  as  their  concept  of  God. 

As  I  occupy  this  position  this  morning,  I  realize  that  it  will 
be  absolutely  impossible  for  me  to  explain  very  accurately  the 
Latter-day  Saints'  concept  of  the  personality  of  God  the  Eternal 
Father,  because  he  is  an  infinite  being  with  infinite  characteristics 
and  attributes  while  I  am  merely  a  finite  man.  It  is  impossible  for 
the  finite  to  understand  and  fully  comprehend  the  infinite;  and  yet 
I  would  like  to  say  a  few  words,  as  I  have  already  indicated,  to 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


15 


supplement  what  President  George  F.  Richards  has  so  masterfully 
explained  regarding  Elohim — the  Eternal  Father. 

God  A  Personal  Being 

We  believe  that  God  is  a  personal  being.  By  a  personal 
being,  we  mean  that  he  is  a  man — an  exalted  man.  Approximately 
one  hundred  years  ago,  soon  after  Lorenzo  Snow  became  a  member 
of  the  true  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  he  formulated  a  remarkable 
couplet  which  has  since  that  time  become  famous.  He  said:  "As 
man  is,  God  once  was;  as  God  is,  man  may  become."  (Lorenzo 
Snow,  The  Millennial  Star  54:404.)  Time  and  time  again  during 
the  period  of  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  various  evidences  were  given  to  him  sustain- 
ing, amplifying,  and  explaining  the  personality  of  God.  If  time 
would  permit,  many  excellent  quotations  could  be  cited  from  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  which  would  help  to  describe  the  person- 
ality of  our  Eternal  Father.  However,  I  would  like  on  this  occa- 
sion to  quote  a  statement  taken  from  a  great  sermon  which  was 
given  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  shortly  before  his  death.  This  quo- 
tation is  a  continuation  of  the  statement  I  have  already  quoted 
from  the  Prophet.    To  use  his  exact  words: 

It  is  the  first  principle  of  the  Gospel  to  know  {or  a  certainty  the 
character  of  God,  and  to-  know  that  we  may  converse  with  him  as  one 
man  converses  with  another,  and  that  he  was  once  a  man  like  us;  yea, 
that  God  himself,  the  Father  of  us  all,  dwelt  on  an  earth,  the  same  as 
Jesus  Christ  himself  did.  .  .  . 

I  will  go  back  to  the  beginning  before  the  world  was,  to  show  what 
kind  of  a  being  God  is.  What  sort  of  a  being  was  God  in  the  beginning? 
Open  your  ears  and  hear,  all  ye  ends  of  the  earth.  .  .  . 

God  himself  was  once  as  we  are  now,  and  is  an  exalted  man,  and 
sits  enthroned  in  yonder  heavens.  That  is  the  great  secret.  If  the  veil 
were  rent  today,  and  the  great  God  who  holds  this  world  in  its  orbit,  and 
who  upholds  all  worlds  and  all  things  by  his  power,  was  to  make  himself 
visible, — /  say,  if  you  were  to  see  him  today,  you  would  see  him  like  a 
man  in  form — like  yourselves  in  all  the  person,  image,  and  very  form 
as  a  man;  for  Adam  was  created  in  the  very  fashion,  image  and  likeness 
of  God,  and  received  instructions  from,  and  walked,  talked  and  cow- 
versed  with  him,  as  one  man  talks  and  communes  with  another.  (Teach- 
ings of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  pp.  345-346.) 

I  would  like  to  discuss  with  you  for  a  moment  or  two  the 
doctrine  of  what  kind  of  being  God  is  at  the  present  time.  He  is 
an  exalted,  glorified,  celestialized  man,  but  actually  and  literally 
a  personal  being.  By  this  description  I  mean  that  his  body  is 
eternal,  being  composed  of  spiritual  matter  which  cannot  decay, 
age,  nor  deteriorate.  Furthermore,  Elohim,  or  the  Eternal  Father, 
is  a  being  brighter  than  the  noonday  sun.  From  that  Divine  Per- 
sonage radiates  light,  light  with  the  characteristic  of  excessive 
brilliance. 


16 

Friday,  October  1 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 
The  First  Vision 


First  Day 


I  believe  that  in  order  best  to  define  what  I  have  in  mind,  we 
could  with  profit  refer  to  that  wonderful  experience  had  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  known  as  the  "First  Vision,"  which  was 
so  beautifully  explained  a  few  moments  ago  by  President  George 
F.  Richards.  When  the  Prophet  Joseph  was  engaged  in  deep 
prayer  on  that  memorable  spring  morning  in  1820,  a  pillar  of 
light,  as  he  explained,  brighter  than  the  noonday  sun  came  down 
from  heaven  and  fell  upon  him.  In  the  midst  of  that  light,  Joseph 
saw  two  ".  .  .  Personages  whose  brightness  and  glory  defy  all 
description,"  as  far  as  their  glory,  radiance,  and  brilliance  are 
concerned.   (Pearl  of  Great  Price,  Joseph  Smith,  2:17.) 

The  Boy-Prophet  returned  from  the  Sacred  Grove  that  morn- 
ing with  more  knowledge,  yes,  with  a  clearer  concept  in  his  mind 
regarding  the  personality  of  God  and  the  Godhead  than  had  all 
the  ministers  in  the  world  combined.  And  it  would  be  no  exag- 
geration to  say  that  his  knowledge  of  God,  received  through  that 
divine  manifestation,  surpassed  the  understanding  had  at  that  time 
by  all  the  people  in  the  world  combined.  I  feel  deeply  that  it  is  a 
fact  that  one  of  the  principal  purposes  that  God  the  Eternal  Father 
and  his  Only  Begotten  Son  had  in  coming  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  on  that  beautiful  spring  morning  was  to  give  to  the  world 
again  a  true  concept  of  the  personality  of  God. 

The  Holy  Trinity 

Jesus  Christ  came  into  the  world  in  the  meridian  of  time  to 
reveal  to  the  human  family  the  Eternal  Father.  Shortly  before 
Christ's  death  Philip  asked  him  to  show  the  Apostles  the  Father. 
The  Son  of  Man  answered  that  those  who  had  seen  him  had  seen 
the  Father,  meaning  that  he  was  a  perfect  prototype  of  the  Father 
and  that  he  exemplified  the  Father  in  all  things.  (See  John  14:8-9.) 
Throughout  the  pages  of  the  New  Testament  we  find  a  very  definite 
doctrine  proclaimed  of  the  actuality  and  existence  of  three  mem- 
bers in  the  Godhead — three  personal  beings,  the  Father,  the  Son, 
and  the  Holy  Ghost — constituting  the  Holy  Trinity. 

During  the  early  Christian  centuries  following  the  death  of 
Jesus'  Apostles,  darkness  crept  into  the  minds  of  the  Christian 
leaders.  This  fact  resulted  in  the  holding  of  council  meetings  dur- 
ing the  early  portion  of  the  fourth  century  for  the  purpose  of  re- 
defining God.  At  those  council  meetings,  the  "Christian  Fathers" 
formulated  a  creed  or  creeds  in  which  they  attempted  to  define  the 
personality  of  God  and  the  Godhead.  In  those  creeds,  the  three 
Divine  Personages  of  the  Godhead  were  merged  into  one.  Their 
new  and  corrupted  concept  of  God  did  away  with  his  personal  attri- 
butes, making  of  him  a  God  without  body,  parts,  and  passions.  In 
fact,  they  confused  and  polluted  the  beautiful  concept  of  the  Holy 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER  17 


Trinity  which  had  been  revealed  to  his  followers  by  the  Son  of  God 
by  making  the  Father,  the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost  incompre- 
hensible and  indefinable.  During  the  following  fifteen  hundred 
years,  all  Christian  churches  were  affected  by  the  erroneous  and 
benighted  thinking  of  the  fourth  century  "Christian  Fathers." 

Revelation  of  God's  Personality 

Since  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  revealed  the  fact  that  the 
first  principle  of  the  gospel  is  to  know  for  a  certainty  the  character 
of  God  and  the  world  was  engulfed  in  spiritual  darkness,  it  be- 
came necessary  for  Elohim,  the  Eternal  Father,  to  open  the  Dis- 
pensation of  the  Fulness  of  Times  with  a  new  revelation  of  his 
personality.  As  a  result  of  that  revelation  and  the  .restoration  of 
the  gospel  in  its  fulness,  Latter-day  Saints  accept  the  viewpoint 
that  God  is  omnipotent,  that  he  is  omniscient,  and  that  he  is  omni- 
present. In  other  words,  he  is  all-powerful  and  all-knowing.  We 
believe  that  he  always  works  according  to  natural  law,  and  through 
his  understanding  of  those  laws  and  by  putting  them  into  operation 
he  has  created  worlds  without  number,  that  is,  they  are  not  numbered 
to  mortal  man.  In  fact,  he  created  this  earth  upon  which  we  live 
and  gave  the  laws  or  put  the  laws  into  operation  which  govern  it. 
Also,  he  put  into  operation  the  laws  which  govern  all  the  worlds 
that  he  has  created. 

We  believe  that  God  is  omniscient:  that  he  is  all-knowing, 
that  he  sees  all  things  and  that  he  hears  all  sounds.  In  other 
words,  that  his  sight  and  his  hearing  know  no  bounds,  and  that 
his  knowledge  is  absolutely  unlimited.  We  even  believe  that  so 
great  is  the  infinite  power  of  that  Divine  Being  that  he  can  see 
the  things  that  we  do  at  nighttime  in  our  private  chambers  or  even 
read  the  secret  thoughts  of  our  hearts. 

We  also  believe  that  God  the  Eternal  Father  is  omnipresent. 
Now  by  that  I  might  point  out  that  since  he  is  a  personal  being, 
he  can  be  in  only  one  place  at  one  time;  and  yet  from  him  eman- 
ates a  divine  substance  or  spirit  which  we  term  the  Spirit  of  God, 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  or  the  Holy  Spirit.  That  divine  substance 
emanates*  from  God  to  fill  the  immensity  of  space.  It  is  through  that 
divine  spirit  that  he  performs  his  great  work.  Also,  it  is  through 
that  divine  Spirit  that  he  is  omnipresent. 

Divine  Attributes 

This  Supreme  Being  whom  we  worship  has  a  number  of 
attributes.  In  fact,  all  the  good  attributes  that  you  and  I  possess, 
he  possesses  to  an  infinite  degree.  The  attributes  of  love,  justice, 
mercy,  kindness,  integrity,  honesty,  charity,  purity,  and  constancy 
are  among  those  that  belong  to  him.  The  author  of  the  Gospel 
of  John  was  explaining  and  defining  God,  and  he  summarized  his 


18  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  1  First  Dag 

great  explanation  by  saying  that  "God  is  love."  So  deep,  so 
great,  so  universal,  and  so  all-comprehensive  is  the  love  of  our 
Divine  Father  that  John's  definition — "God  is  love" — describes 
the  Infinite  and  Eternal  One  very  aptly. 

We  are  informed  by  the  holy  scriptures  that  God  is  a  God 
that  cannot  sin;  and  also,  that  God  is  a  God  that  cannot  lie.  He 
lives  in  accordance  with  truth  and  eternal  law,  therefore,  every  act 
that  he  performs  is  in  complete  harmony  with  divine  truth  and  di- 
vine law. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  prophets  proclaimed  that  all  truth  em- 
anates from  God  and  that  he  is  the  author  of  all  truth.  Having 
put  himself  in  harmony  with  all  truth  and  by  being  interested  in 
you  and  me,  he  reveals  to  us  those  divine  and  eternal  truths  as 
fast  as  we  are  willing  and  able  to  receive  them;  and  so  he  is  the 
author  of  all  truth. 

One  of  the  greatest  attributes  of  God  is  the  attribute  of  in- 
telligence. We  read  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  that  "The 
glory  of  God  is  intelligence."  (D.  6  C.  93:36.)  In  the  great  vision 
given  to  Father  Abraham,  referred  to  by  President  Richards,  the 
Lord  showed  the  ancient  patriarch  the  spirits  that  he  had  created 
and  made  the  remark,  "I  am  the  Lord  thy  God,  I  am  more  in- 
telligent than  they  all."  (Abraham  3:19.)  For  these  reasons  I 
have  concluded  that  God's  intelligence  is  one  of  his  greatest  attri- 
butes. 

You  and  I  are  closely  akin  to  God.  He  is  our  Father.  He  is 
actually  and  literally  the  Father  of  all  people  who  have  ever  been 
in  this  world  and  who  ever  will  be  in  this  world.  We  were  born 
unto  him  in  the  spirit  world  as  his  sons  and  daughters.  By  being 
his  children,  we  inherited  from  him  the  divine  attributes  that  he 
as  our  Father  possesses.  It  is  our  duty  to  develop  those  attributes. 
Since  we  are  his  sons,  he  has  a  great  concern  over  us  and  a  great 
love  for  us.  He  desires  that  we  live  in  harmony  with  the  gospel 
plan  of  salvation  in  order  that  we  may  eventually  come  back  to 
dwell  in  his  presence. 

Testimony 

v  In  conclusion  I  would  like  to  bear  my  testimony."  I  know 
that  God  lives.  I  know  that  he  is  the  Father  of  the  human  family. 
I  know  that  he  has  a  deep  concern  and  love  for  us.  I  know  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  true  and  Living  God,  the  Savior 
of  the  world,  and  that  his  name  is  the  only  name  given  whereby 
salvation  can  come  to  the  children  of  men.  I  know  that  Joseph 
Smith  is  a  true  prophet  of  God,  and  the  great  prophet  who  was 
foreordained  to  open  the  last  dispensation  of  the  gospel.  If  you 
and  I  will  live  according  to  the  teachings  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  I  know  that  we  will  some  day  return  to  the  presence  of 
God  our  Eternal  Father  and  become  exalted,  glorified,  and  celes- 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON  19 


tialized  beings,  receiving  a  portion,  along  with  him,  of  the  great 
glory  that  he  posesses. 

I  humbly  pray  that  you  and  I  will  do  this,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

President  Smith,  my  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  (and  I  can  call 
you  my  dear  brothers  and  sisters  because  I  feel  that  way  towards 
you,  and  I  hope  you  feel  that  way  toward  me),  I  feel  very  hum- 
ble this  morning,  and  I  can  publicly  admit  that  I  have  asked 
the  Lord  not  once,  but  many  times,  to  bless  me  this  day  while  I 
speak  to  you  for  a  few  moments.  I  am  sure  that  I  could  not  occupy 
this  position  and  say  anything  worth  while  without  the  help  of 
the  Lord,  and  I  will  be  grateful  to  you  if  I  can  have  an  interest 
in  your  faith  and  prayers. 

Defense  in  Spirituality 

This  is  surely  a  spiritual  conference,  and  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  is  here  in  rich  abundance.  Each  one  of  us  knows  that.  The 
testimonies  that  we  have  listened  to  about  the  Prophet  Joseph 
are  true,  and  the  words  that  we  shall  hear  from  your  brethren  will 
be  inspired  by  the  Lord.  I  hope  that  we  can  take  the  advice  and 
the  testimonies  that  will  be  given  to  us,  that  our  minds  and  hearts 
will  be  open.  Truly,  we  can  rejoice  in  the  gospel  of  the  Lord, 
Jesus  Christ. 

If  we  can  live  close  to  our  Father  in  heaven,  we  can  partake 
of  his  Spirit.  If  we  get  too  far  away  from  the  Lord,  we  cannot  partake 
of  his  Spirit.  I  have  come  to  believe  that  the  only  defense  that 
we  can  have  against  the  spirit  of  the  adversary  or  against  the  spirit 
of  the  devil  is  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  That  is  truly  the  great  de- 
fense that  we  can  have. 

May  I  repeat  from  Corinthians,  "Eye  hath  not  seen,  nor  ear 
heard,  neither  have  entered  into  the  heart  of  man,  the  things  which 
God  hath  prepared  for  them  that  love  him."  (I  Cor.  2:9.)  As  I 
think  of  that,  it  makes  me  feel  that  I  cannot  quite  understand  the 
blessings  that  the  Lord  has  in  store  for  us  if  we  love  him.  They 
are  great  blessings,  but,  to  the  best  of  our  ability,  we  can  partake 
of  them  if  we  truly  love  the  Lord.  How  can  we  love  our  Father 
in  heaven?  The  best  way,  I  believe,  is  for  us  to  draw  near  to 
him  each  day  of  our  lives,  and  it  is  good  for  us  to  study  his  words 
and  his  life.  We  have  so  beautifully  heard  this  morning,  "Love 
our  Father  in  heaven,  try  to  serve  him  and  keep  his  commandments, 
and  he  will  bless  us  to  a  greater  degree  than  we  can  ever  realize." 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


Principle  of  Repentance 


It  may  be  necessary  for  us  to  make  some  adjustments  in  our 
lives.  It  may  be  necessary  for  us  to  overcome  some  things,  but 
the  Lord  has  promised  us  great  blessings  if  we  try  to  repent  and 
come  unto  him  and  partake  of  his  life  and  his  Spirit.  And  what 
has  he  said  about  him  that  overcometh?    In  Revelation  we  read: 

To  him  that  overcometh  will  I  give  to  eat  of  the  tree  of  life.  .  .  . 
To  him  that  overcometh  will  I  give  to  eat  of  the  hidden  manna,  and  will 
give  him  a  white  stone,  and  in  the  stone  a  new  name  written.  (Rev.  2:7, 


We  can  come  near  to  our  Father  in  heaven  through  that 
great  principle  of  prayer  and  repentance.  We  have  been  known 
as  a  praying  people.  We  are  glad  to  be  known  as  a  praying 
people,  because  we  believe  in  prayer.  We  bear  witness  to  the. 
world  that  the  Lord  does  hear  and  answer  prayers  if  we  ask  in 
humility,  and  so  we  can  go  to  the  Lord  each  day  of  our  lives. 
We  do  not  need  to  worry  about  talking  to  the  Lord,  no  matter 
where  we  are,  about  any  of  our  trials  and  sorrows  and  problems, 
and  the  Lord  has  told  us  if  we  ask  in  faith,  he  will  bless  us. 


What  is  prayer?  Someone  has  said,  "Prayer  is  the  most 
valuable  habit  a  boy  can  have.  It  is  a  safeguard  in  youth,  a  com- 
fort and  a  pillar  of  strength  and  power  in  middle  life,  and  in  old 
age  a  consolation  that  wipes  away  the  sting  of  the  grave  and 
takes  from  death  its  victory."  That  is  the  way  we  can  become 
close  to  our  Father  in  heaven,  yes,  through  the  principle  of  prayer, 
and,  oh,  that  we  could  keep  our  lines  open  so  that  we  can  com- 
municate with  the  Lord  and  so  that  we  can  hear  his  answer. 

Just  a  little  poem  on  prayer: 


17.) 


Prayer  A  Valuable  Habit 


I  say  a  prayer  each  morning, 
So  the  day  will  turn  out  right, 
And  when  the  sun  has  disappeared, 
I  tell  the  Lord  good  night. 


The  world  looks  brighter  in  the  dawn 
When  I  pronounce  a  prayer, 
Because  it  reassures  me 
The  Lord  is  fealty  there, 


And  that  I  seem  to  walk  with  him 
Each  hour  of  the  day, 
While  I  am  occupied  with  work 
Or  taking  time  to  play. 


I  listen  to  his  counsel 

And  find  my  courage  strong, 

Whenever  I  am  weary 

Or  when  anything  goes  wrong. 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON  21 


And  when  the  day  is  over, 
And  the  moon  and  stars  are  bright, 
I  feel  the  least  that  I  can  do 
Is  tell  the  Lord  good  night. 

— Author  Unknown 

May  we  draw  nearer  to  the  Lord  each  day,  thank  him  for 
the  blessings  that  we  enjoy,  try  to  serve  him  and  keep  his  com- 
mandments with  all  the  strength  that  f  we  can  muster,  because 
therein  lies  the  happiness  of  life  and  its  fulness.  Without  those 
blessings,  we  are  not  happy  nor  can  we  be  successful. 

Goodness  of  the  Lord 

I  want  to  bear  testimony  of  the  goodness  of  the  Lord  to  me. 
I  am  grateful  for  the  association  that  I  have  with  the  brethren 
of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  whom  I  love  very  dearly. 
I  want  to  say  to  the  people  of  the  Church  and  to  the  whole  world 
that  there  is  no  disunity  in  the  Church  so  far  as  the  brethren  are 
concerned.  No  greater  love  hath  one  man  for  another  than  is 
experienced  in  the  associations  with  these  men.  I  know  they  are 
men  of  God;  I  witness  their  faith  each  day;  I  know  they  believe 
in  the  principle  of  prayer;  and  I  know  they  encourage  the  people 
and  bless  the  people  because  they  know  that  is  the  will  of  the  Lord. 

Observance  of  Sabbath  Day 

With  reference  to  the  Sabbath  day,  I  was  quite  astonished 
recently  regarding  the  London  Olympic  Games  of  the  world 
wherein  those  great  games  were  not  held  on  Sunday,  even  though 
many  of  the  people  of  that  great  city  wanted  those  games  to  go 
forward  on  the  Sabbath  day,  because  they  could  get  large  crowds 
and  because  the  revenue  would  be  great.  But  there  is  a  law  in 
London  that  says  there  can  be  no  games  or  sports  on  the  Sabbath 
day.  When  I  read  that  letter  and  read  that  law  and  read  that 
article  that  was  sent  to  me  about  the  Olympic  Games  from  one  of 
our  people  in  London,  I  could  not  help  feeling  a  little  ashamed  that 
here  we  are  living  right  where  those  doctrines  and  principles  have 
been  given  to  us,  and  sometimes  we  have  a  hard  time  living  the 
Sabbath  day  and  keeping  it  holy  as  the  Lord  has  told  us  to  do.  I 
hope  that  we  can  popularize  the  Sabbath  day  and  keep  it  holy  and 
truly  worship  the  Lord  with  all  our  hearts  and  draw  near  to  him 
so  that  we  can  partake  of  his  Spirit  and  be  happy  in  our  daily  life 
and  in  our  homes. 

I  hope  that  our  young  people  are  not  being  robbed  of  the 
blessings  of  prayer  and  that  we  are  not  too  busy  in  our  daily 
life  to  call  our  family  together,  or  that  we  will  not  become  too 
self-sufficient,  or  too  modest,  or  too  backward,  to  call  our  family 
together.    Even  though  there  are  only  one  or  two  home,  do  not 


22  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  1  First  Dag 

let  us  deny  our  children  the  blessing  that  comes  from  family 
prayers.  Do  not  let  us  feel  sufficient  without  the  Lord's  help,  be- 
cause it  is  impossible  for  us  to  succeed  and  reach  eternal  life 
and  have  joy  and  happiness  here  upon  earth  without  those  bless- 
ings that  come  from  our  kind,  loving  Father  in  heaven. 

Encouragement  to  Overcome  Mistakes 

In  closing,  I  would  like  to  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know 
the  Lord  hears  and  answers  prayers.  I  know  that  he  will  help 
his  people  overcome  some  of  their  weaknesses.  I  know  that  he 
will  help  them  in  their  problems.  I  like  to  believe  that  I  can 
go  to  my  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  no  matter  what  my  problems 
may  be,  no  matter  how  far  I  may  have  drifted.  I  want  to  feel 
that  I  can  go  to  him,  and  I  hope  that  our  young  people,  and  for 
that  matter,  all  of  our  people,  will  never  feel  as  though  they  can 
make  a  break  with  the  Living  God,  even  though  they  have  mis- 
takes to  overcome.  There  is  no  time  that  we  can  forsake  the  Lord, 
least  of  all  when  we  are  weak,  least  of  all  when  we  are  discouraged, 
least  of  all  when  we  are  disappointed,  and  I  hope  that  the  young 
people  will  not  live  with  their  mistakes  long.  I  think  they  should 
be  encouraged  to  go  to  the  Lord  as  soon  as  they  have  made  mis- 
takes, and  I  hope  we  as  bishops,  Aaronic  Priesthood  advisers  and 
advisers  to  adult  members  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  can  be  so  true 
with  those  men,  yes,  likewise,  with  all  young  men  and  young 
women,  that  if  they  have  made  mistakes  or  if  they  need  help,  do 
not  let  us  cut  them  off  sharp.  Let  us  be  kind  and  lovable  to  them 
so  they  can  come  to  us  with  their  sorrows  and  their  mistakes  and 
their  problems,  and  then  encourage  them  to  go  to  the  Lord  and 
ask  him  to  forgive  them,  and  go  to  the  Lord  and  ask  him  to  help 
them  overcome  some  of  the  things  that  they  have  done  that  they 
should  not  have  done. 

I  like  to  believe  in  the  law  of  repentance  where  the  Lord  has 
said  in  effect:  "If  you  come  unto  me  truly  and  repent  of  your 
wrongdoing,  I  will  forgive  you."  I  am  grateful  for  the  law  of 
repentance;  it's  never  too  late  to  repent. 

The  Lord  has  never  forsaken  us.  He  has  told  us,  "I  the  Lord 
am  bound  when  ye  do  what  I  say;  but  when  ye  do  not  what  I  say, 
ye  have  no  promise."  (D.  &  C.  82:10.)  And  in  closing,  may  I 
urge  that  we  start  all  over  again  and  try  not  to  make  those  mis- 
takes. In  the  words  of  Emerson:  "All  that  I  have  seen  teaches 
me  to  trust  the  Creator  for  all  I  have  not  seen." 

God  bless  you  that  you  may  enjoy  the  spirit  of  the  conference, 
that  the  spirit  of  prayer  may  always  be  with  us,  I  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Tesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE  23 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

That  I  may  have  your  sustaining  prayers  and  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  to  be  with  me,  as  it  has  been  with  the  brethren  who  have 
spoken  this  morning,  is  the  desire  of  my  heart. 

Today  we  have  heard  President  George  F.  Richards  and 
President  Milton  R.  Hunter  talk  to  us  about  the  nature  and  kind 
of  being  that  God  the  Eternal  Father  is,  and  about  pur  relationship 
to  him.  If  he  will  sustain  me  I  would  like  to  bear  you  my  witness 
and  tell  you  what  I  understand  to  be  the  doctrine  of  this  Church 
and  kingdom  with  reference  to  his  Beloved  Son,  Jesus  Christ. 

"What  Think  Ye  of  Christ" 

When  Christ  was  among  men,  in  one  of  his  last  conver- 
sations with  the  Pharisees,  he  asked:  ".  .  .  What  think  ye  of 
Christ?  whose  son  is  he?"  He  received  the  answer,  "The  son 
of  David."    Thereupon  he  asked: 

How  then  doth  David  in  spirit  call  him  Lord,  saying, 
The  Lord  said  unto  my  Lord,  Sit  thou  on  my  right  hand,  till  I  make 
thine  enemies  thy  footstool? 

If  David  then  call  him  Lord,  how  is  he  his  son?   (Matt.  22:42-45.) 

Because  those  Jews  had  lost  the  knowledge  of  God  and  of 
Christ,  they  were  unable  to  answer.  The  world  by  wisdom  knew 
not  God.  Like  many  devout  people  today  they  had  inherited 
from  their  fathers  lies,  vanity,  and  things  in  which  there  was  no 
profit.  They  did  not  know  that  God  the  Eternal  Father  was  the 
Father  of  Christ,  and  that  Christ  was  of  the  seed  of  David  through 
Mary,  his  mother.  People  in  that  day  needed,  just  as  did  the 
people  in  Joseph  Smith's  day,  a  new  revelation  of  God  and  of  the 
plan  of  salvation. 

As  I  understand  it,  our  mission  to  the  world  in  this  day,  is 
to  testify  of  Jesus  Christ.  Our  mission  is  to  bear  record  that  he 
is  the  Son  of  the  Living  God  and  that  he  was  crucified  for  the 
sins  of  the  world;  that  salvation  was,  and  is,  and  is  to  come,  in 
and  through  his  atoning  blood;  that  by  virtue  of  his  atonement 
all  men  will  be  raised  in  immortality,  and  those  who  believe  and 
obey  the  gospel  law  both  in  immortality  and  unto  eternal  life. 

And  the  position  which  Joseph  Smith  holds  in  the  scheme  of 
things  is  that  he  is  the  chiefest  witness  of  Christ  that  there  has 
been  in  this  world  since  the  Son  of  God  personally  walked  among 
men  and  bore  record  of  himself  saying,  "I  am  the  Son  of  God!" 

Firstborn  in  Spirit  World 

We  believe,  and  I  certify  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Firstborn 
Spirit  Child  of  Elohim  who  is  God,  our  Heavenly  Father.  We 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  1  First  Day 

believe  that  while  he  lived  in  the  pre-existent  world,  by  virtue 
of  his  superior  intelligence,  progression,  and  obedience,  he  attained 
unto  the  station  of  a  God.  And  he  then  became,  under  the  Father, 
the  Creator  of  this  world  and  all  things  that  are  in  it,  as  also  the 
Creator  of  worlds  without  number. 

We  believe  that  he  was  the  Jehovah  of  the  Old  Testament; 
that  it  was  through  him  that  God  the  Father  dealt  with  all  the 
ancient  prophets,  revealing  his  mind  and  his  will  and  the  plan  of 
salvation  to  them. 

Christ  gave  the  gospel  to  the  ancients  beginning  with  Adam 
and  going  on  down,  dispensation  after  dispensation,  until  this 
present  time.  And  everything  that  has  been  given  in  the  gospel 
and  everything  that  has  been  in  any  way  connected  with  it  has 
been  designed  for  the  express  purpose  of  bearing  record  of  Christ 
and  certifying  as  to  his  divine  mission. 

In  the  Similitude  of  Christ 

From  Adam  to  Moses  and  From  Moses  to  Christ,  God's 
prophets  and  priests  offered  sacrifices.  Such  were  in  the  similitude 
of  the  sacrifice  of  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father  who  was  to 
come.  When  Moses  lifted  the  serpent  on  the  pole  in  ancient  Israel 
and  told  the  Israelites  that  those  who  would  look  would  live  when 
they  were  bitten  by  poisonous  serpents,  it  was  in  similitude  of  the 
fact  that  the  Son  of  God  would  be  lifted  up  on  the  cross  and  that 
all  who  would  look  to  him  might  live  eternally. 

Every  ordinance  of  the  gospel  is  designed  to  point  and  center 
the  attention  of  men  in  Christ.  We  are  baptized  in  similitude  of 
his  death,  burial,  and  resurrection.  We  honor  Sunday  as  the 
Sabbath  because  it  was  on  that  day  when  he  arose  from  the  grave, 
breaking  the  bands  of  death  and  becoming  the  first  fruits  of  them 
that  slept.  The  ancients  honored  the  seventh  day  as  one  of  rest 
and  worship  because  it  was  on  that  day  that  he  rested  from  his 
labors  after  working  under  the  direction  of  his  Father  in  the 
creation  of  this  world.    In  fact,  as  Jacob  says: 

...  all  things  which  have  been  given  of  God  from  the  beginning  of 
the  world,  unto  man,  are  the  typifying  of  him.    (II  Nephi  11:4.) 

Every  prophet  that  there  has  been  in  the  world  has  borne 
record  that  he  is  the  Son  of  God,  because  in  its  very  nature  that 
is  the  chief  calling  of  a  prophet.  The  testimony  of  Jesus  is  syn- 
onymous with  the  spirit  of  prophecy. 

Christ's  Earthly  Ministry 

We  believe  that  Christ  was  born  into  the  world,  literally  and 
actually,  in  the  most  real  and  positive  sense  as  the  Son  of  God, 
the  Eternal  Father.    He  was  born  with  that  Being  as  his  Father 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 


25 


just  as  certainly  and  just  as  actually,  just  as  literally  and  definitely 
as  he  was  born  with  Mary  as  his  mother.  It  was  by  virtue  of 
that  birth  that  he  was  able  to  say  that  no  man  took  his  life  from 
him,  that  he  had  power  to  lay  down  his  life  and  power  to  take  it 
up  again,  and  had  been  so  commanded  of  his  Father. 

We  .believe  that  he  came  into  the  world  with  the  express 
mission  of  dying  upon  the  cross  for  the  sins  of  the  world;  that  he 
is  actually,  literally,  and  really  the  Redeemer  of  the  world  and 
the  Savior  of  men;  and  that  by  the  shedding  of  his  blood  he  has 
offered  to  all  men  forgiveness  of  sins  conditioned  upon  their  re- 
pentance and  obedience  to  the  gospel  plan. 

Our  revelations  say  that  when  he  came  into  this  life  he  re- 
ceived not  of  the  fulness  at  the  first,  but  that  he  continued  from 
grace  to  grace — which,  I  take  it,  means  from  intelligence  to  intelli- 
gence, from  a  low  degree  to  a  higher  one — until  he  received  a  ful- 
ness of  the  glory  of  the  Father.  Then  the  revelation  recites  that 
if  you  and  I  keep  the  commandments  of  God  and  walk  in  the 
paths  of  truth  and  righteousness,  we,  too,  shall  go  from  grace 
to  grace  until  we  receive  of  the  fulness  of  the  Father  and  are 
glorified  in  Christ  as  he  is  in  the  Father. 

We  understand  that  he  was  in  all  points  tempted  as  we  are, 
and  yet  remained  without  sin.    We  accept  Paul's  statement  that 

Though  he  were  a  Son,  yet  learned  he  obedience  by  the  things  which 
he  suffered; 

And  being  made  perfect,  he  became  the  author  of  eternal  salvation 
unto  all  them  that  obey  him.    (Heb.  5:8-9.) 

In  his  ministry  he  preached  the  gospel  of  salvation,  revealed 
to  men  his  Father  who  must  be  known  if  men  gain  life  eternal, 
and  went  forth  working  many  mighty  miracles.  He  raised  the 
dead,  caused  the  lame  to  walk,  the  blind  to  receive  their  sight, 
the  deaf  to  hear,  and  cured  all  manner  of  diseases.  He  suffered 
temptations,  and  pain  of  body,  hunger,  thirst,  and  fatigue,  even 
more  than  man  can  suffer,  except  it  be  unto  death. 

In  the  Garden  of  Gethsemane  when  he  took  upon  himself 
the  sins  of  the  world,  conditioned  upon  the  repentance  of  men,  his 
agony  and  suffering  were  so  great  that  he  sweat  drops  of  blood 
from  every  pore.  Then  it  was  he  suffered  for  all  that  they  might 
not  suffer  if  they  would  repent,  which  suffering,  he  says,  caused 
himself,  even  God,  the  greatest  of  all,  to  tremble  because  of  pain 
and  to  bleed  at  every  pore,  and  to  suffer  both  body  and  spirit,  and 
would  that  he  might  not  drink  the  bitter  cup  that  the  Father  had 
given  him. 

"Nevertheless,"  he  says,  "glory  be  to  the  Father,  and  I  par- 
took." It  was  the  spirit,  "Thy  will,  O  God,  not  mine  be  done." 
It  was  exactly  the  stand  he  had  taken  in  the  counsels  of  eternity 
when  the  Father  had  presented  the  plan  of  salvation  and  ex- 
plained the  need  for  a  Redeemer.    In  answer  to  that  call  for  a 


26  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  1  First  Dag 

Redeemer  he  had  said:  "Here  am  I,  send  me."  And  also:  "Father, 
thy  will  be  done  and  the  glory  be  thine  forever."  And  such, 
to  my  way  of  thinking,  is  the  perfect  answer,  the  one  we  should 
all  give  in  all  things  pertaining  to  life  and  salvation  and  to  all 
of  our  affairs  during  this  mortal  probation,  and  then  on  in  eternity. 
It  is  the  will  of  the  Father  that  you  and  I  want  to  follow,  not  the 
will  of  anyone  else;  we  want  to  rise  above  our  own  wayward 
courses. 

Latter-day  Appearances 

We  believe  that  Christ  has  appeared  in  this  our  day  with  his 
Father,  as  has  been  certified  to  from  this  pulpit  this  day.  His 
latter-day  appearances  began  when  he  and  the  Father  came  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  the  sacred  grove.  We  believe  that 
from  the  day  of  its  organization,  his  hand  has  been  guiding  and 
directing  and  looking  after  the  affairs  of  this  Church.  He  has 
given  us  the  spirit  of  revelation,  and  the  Light  of  Christ,  and  also 
the  Holy  Ghost  which  bears  record  of  the  Father  and  the  Son, 
to  light  our  path  and  guide  the  destiny  of  the  Church. 

And  it  will  not  be  a  far-distant  day  when  with  power  and  glory 
and  dominion  the  Son  will  return  to  reign  a  thousand  years  on 
earth  with  righteous  men.  And  there  will  be  a  time  appointed 
when  you  and  I  and  every  person  who  has  lived  from  Adam  to 
the  last  man  will  be  called  to  stand  before  the  judgment  bar  and 
be  judged  by  him  according  to  our  works. 

Witnesses  of  Christ 

When  we  Latter-day  Saints  pass  through  the  waters  of  bap- 
tism, it  is  with  a  covenant  that  we  will  stand  as  witnesses  of  Christ 
at  all  times  and  in  all  things,  and  in  all  places  that  we  may  be  in, 
even  until  death,  that  we  may  be  redeemed  of  God,  numbered 
with  those  of  the  first  resurrection  and  gain  eternal  life,  by  which 
we  mean  life  in  the  celestial  kingdom  of  heaven.  One  of  our 
revelations  says  that  it  becometh  every  man  who  hath  been  warned 
to  warn  his  neighbor.    That  is  our  responsibility. 

You  and  I  are  the  most  blessed  and  favored  people  on  the 
face  of  the  earth.  God  has  actually  spoken  in  this  day  and  that 
through  the  men  who  have  presided  over  this  kingdom.  We  have 
that  testimony,  and  the  Holy  Ghost  bears  record  of  its  truth  to  us. 
And  now  our  obligation  is  to  carry  that  message  to  the  world,  to 
proclaim  Christ's  divine  Sonship  and  the  salvation  which  comes 
through  him.  He  is  the  Savior  of  the  world,  and  I  think  that 
every  one  of  us  ought  to  take  every  opportunity  that  comes  to  us 
to  bear  that  witness. 

Now  it  is  not  always  a  matter  of  just  saying  in  so  many 
words  that  these  things  are  true.  First  of  all,  I  think  we  bear 
witness  of  Christ  in  the  life  that  we  live,  by  letting  our  light  shine 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 


27 


and  by  letting  the  gospel  principles  speak  through  us.  If  we  can 
get  the  love,  charity,  integrity,  humility,  and  virtue  that  are  part 
of  the  gospel  into  our  hearts  so  that  others  may  see  our  good 
works,  we  are  by  that  fact  testifying  of  the  fruits  of  Mormonism, 
of  the  fact  of  the  restoration  of  the  gospel,  and  of  the  divinity  of 
Jesus  Christ  whose  hand  is  in  this  work. 

The  Message  of  Salvation 

Having  done  that,  it  remains  our  responsibility,  I  think,  to 
teach  the  doctrines  of  the  kingdom,  to  expound  the  principles  of 
salvation  to  the  world.  Our  time  is  too  important  to  teach  ethical 
platitudes.  We  are  expected  to  give  all  men  to  whom  we  have 
opportunity  to  give  it,  the  message  of  salvation,  the  glad  tidings 
of  the  restoration,  the  fact  that  God  has  spoken  in  this  day,  and 
the  assurance  that  there  is  peace  and  joy  and  happiness  by  living 
the  gospel  here  and  now,  and  an  eternal  reward  in  the  world  to 
come. 

Then  after  we  have  taught  people  the  principles  of  the  gospel, 
after  we  have  let  our  light  shine  before  them,  it  remains  for  us 
to  seal  that  witness  with  pure  testimony,  as  moved  upon  by  the 
Holy  Ghost,  that  we  as  individuals  know  that  these  things  are  true. 

Last  Sunday  I  was  in  the  Granite  Stake.  They  have  about 
5500  members  »f  the  Church  and  sixty-three  missionaries  serving 
in  the  foreign  field,  nearly  1.2  percent  of  their  stake  population. 
Two  weeks  ago  I  was  in  the  Juarez  Stake.  The  Dublan  Ward 
has  214  members  of  the  Church  and  twelve  foreign  missionaries 
now  serving.  As  President  Smith  said,  there  are  5000  missionaries 
out  in  the  world  today,  which  is  one-half  of  one  percent  of  the 
Church  population. 

I  am  not  so  sure  but  what  we  can  increase  our  missionary 
force,  but  what  the  quorums  of  the  priesthood  can  do  more  to 
assist  in  the  support  of  worthy  missionaries  who  cannot  otherwise 
be  supported  in  the  mission  field.  By  doing  this  they  will  be  help- 
ing to  roll  forth  the  testimony  of  Christ  in  this  day.  Our  ward 
teachers  have  the  glorious  opportunity  of  bearing  testimony  of 
Christ  every  month  to  the  members  of  the  Church,  by  teaching 
them  the  doctrines  of  the  kingdom  and  urging  them  to  righteousness. 

The  Lord  has  given  us  every  opportunity.  We  have  the  prom- 
ise that,  if  we  are  valiant  in  the  testimony  of  Christ  and  keep  his 
commandments,  we  will  receive  glory  and  honor  and  reward  in 
eternity,  but  if  we  do  not  what  the  Lord  says,  we  have  no  promise. 

I  know  that  this  work  is  true.  I  know  that  God's  hand  is  with 
this  Church  and  that  the  men  who  now  preside  over  it  as  prophets, 
seers,  and  revelators  are  giving  the  mind  and  will  of  the  Lord  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  the  things  that  will  lead  them  to  glory  and 
honor  and  reward  in  the  eternal  world.  I  think  every  member  of 
this  Church  who  has  arrived  at  the  years  of  accountability  is  both 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  1  First  Day 

entitled  to  be  and  expected  to  be  a  witness  for  Christ.  That  you 
and  I  may  stand  valiant  and  firm  in  the  testimony  of  Christ  is  my 
prayer,  in  his  name.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  of  the  Salt  Lake  Region 
will  now  Sing:  "Build,  Thou,  For  Life's  Immortal  Goal,"  words  and 
music  by  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Cecil  E.  Hart  of 
the  South  Idaho  Falls  Stake,  after  which  this  Conference  will  stand 
adjourned  until  2:00  o'clock  this  afternoon.  The  afternoon  session 
will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  at  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement 
through  KSL  over  the  following  stations:  KDSH  at  Boise,  KSUB  at 
Cedar  City,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls;  KEYY  at  Pocatello,  KSVC  at 
Richfield,  KJAM  at  Vernal,  and  over  KTYL  at  Mesa  by  transcrip- 
tion. 

The  audience  should  be  seated  not  later  than  ten  minutes  before 
the  hour  for  starting  the  meeting. 

Any  important  messages  and  calls  that  have  come  to  us  for 
persons  supposed  to  be  in  attendance  at  the  Conference,  will  be  an- 
nounced at  the  dismissal  of  this  meeting  over  the  loud  speaking  sys- 
tem on  the  grounds.  Everyone  would  do  well  to  listen  carefully  to 
such  announcements.  » 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  has  been  furnished  by  the  Relief 
Society  Singing  Mothers  of  the  Salt  Lake  Region,  Sister  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen  conducting,  and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the 
organ.  They  will  now  sing,  after  which  President  Hart  will  offer 
the  benediction. 

Singing  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers:  "Build  Thou, 
For  Life's  Immortal  Goal." 

Elder  Cecil  E.  Hart,  President  of  the  South  Idaho  Falls  Stake, 
offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 

FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  second  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  2:00  p.m., 
Friday,  October  1. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

This  is  the  second  session  of  the  1 19th  Semi- Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 


REPORT  OF  CHANGES 


29 


President  Smith  is  presiding.  He  has  requested  the  speaker,  Presi- 
dent Clark,  to  conduct  these  services. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  afternoon  all  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church  except  Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  who  is 
convalescing  at  home  by  his  doctor's  direction;  Elder  Alma  Sonne, 
who  is  in  Europe  in  charge  of  the  European  Missions;  and  President 
S.  Dilworth  Young,  who  is  presiding  over  the  New  England  Mission. 

The  proceedings  of  this  Conference,  as  already  announced,  will 
be  broadcast  over  KSL  at  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through 
KSL  over  the  following  stations:  KDSH  at  Boise,  KSUB  at  Cedar 
City,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at  Pocatello,  KSVC  at  Richfield, 
KjAM  at  Vernal,  and  over  KTYL  at  Mesa  by  transcription. 

Any  important  messages  and  calls  that  come  to  us  for  persons 
supposed  to  be  in  attendance  at  Conference  will  be  announced  at 
the  dismissal  of  this  meeting  over  the  loud-speaking  system  on  the 
grounds.  Everyone  would  do  well  to  listen  carefully  to  such  an- 
nouncements. 

The  choir  singing  for  this  session  will  be  by  the  Relief  Society 
Singing  Mothers  of  the  Salt  Lake  Region,  of  whom  Sister  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen  is  the  conductor;  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  will  be 
at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  the  services  by  the  Singing  Mothers  rendering: 
"Recessional." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  J.  Byron  Bar- 
ton, San  Francisco  Stake,  San  Francisco,  California. 

Singing  by  the  Singing  Mothers:  "Recessional." 

President  J.  Byron  Barton  of  the  San  Francisco  Stake  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

The  Singing  Mothers  sang:  "If  With  All  Your  Hearts  Ye  Truly 
Seek  Me." 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  read  the  fol- 
lowing report  of  changes: 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS,  STAKE,  WARD,  AND 
BRANCH  ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE  APRIL 
CONFERENCE  1948 

General  Superintendence  of  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement 
Association: 

The  General  Superintendency  of  the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Im- 
provement Association  has  been  reorganized  with  Elbert  R.  Curtis  as 
General  Superintendent,  A.  Walter  Stevenson  as  First  Assistant,  and 
Ralph  W.  Hardy  as  Second  Assistant.  These  brethren  succeed  in 
their  respective  positions,  George  Q.  Morris,  General  Superintendent, 
John  D.  Giles,  First  Assistant,  and  Lorenzo  H.  Hatch,  Second  As- 
sistant. 


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  1  *  First  Day 

Temple  President  Appointed: 

Willard  L.  Smith  appointed  President  of  the  Alberta  Temple, 
to  succeed  Edward  J.  Wood. 

New  Mission  Presidents  have  been  appointed  as  follows : 

George  Q.  Morris,  president  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission,  to 
succeed  Roy  W.  Doxey. 

Gordon  C.  Young,  president  of  the  New  Zealand  Mission,  to 
succeed  A.  Reed  Halverson. 

Golden  H.  Hale,  president  of  the  Samoan  Mission,  to  succeed 
John  Q.  Adams. 

Evan  P.  Wright,  president  of  the  South  African  Mission,  to 
succeed  June  B.  Sharp. 

Emile  C.  Dunn,  president  of  the  Tongan  Mission,  to  succeed 
Evon  W.  Huntsman. 

New  Stakes  Organized: 

San  Joaquin  Stake  organized  April  25,  1948,  from  the  Sacra- 
mento Stake. 

Cedar  Stake  organized  May  2,  1948,  from  the  Parowan  Stake. 

New  Stake  Presidents  Chosen: 

Gordon  A.  Brewerton,  president  of  the  Alberta  Stake,  to  suc- 
ceed Willard  L.  Smith. 

David  LeRoy  Sargent,  president  of  the  Cedar  Stake. 

Herbert  K.  Whitworth,  president  of  the  Idaho  Stake,  to  suc- 
ceed Christian  Call. 

Wm.  F.  Edwards,  president  of  the  New  York  Stake,  to  succeed 
Howard  S.  Bennion. 

W.  Cla'ir  Rowley,  president  of  the  Parowan  Stake,  to  succeed 
David  LeRoy  Sargent. 

Wendell  B.  Mendenhall,  President  of  the  San  Joaquin  Stake. 

New  Wards  Organized: 

Beaver  1st,  2nd,  and  3rd  Wards,  formed  by  division  of  Beaver 
East  and  Beaver  West  Wards,  Beaver  Stake. 

North  Ogden  2nd  Ward,  Ben  Lomond  Stake,  formed  by  di- 
vision of  the  North  Ogden  Ward. 

Berkeley  2nd  Ward,  Berkeley  Stake,  formed  by  division  of  the 
Berkeley  Ward. 

Carquinez  Ward,  Berkeley  Stake,  formed  by  division  of  the 
Vallejo  Ward. 

Holladay  2nd  Ward,  Big  Cottonwood  Stake,  formed  by  divis- 
ion of  Holladay  and  Winder  Wards. 

Olympus  South  Ward,  Big  Cottonwood  Stake,  formed  by  di- 
vision of  the  Mt.  Olympus  Ward. 

Boise  6th  Ward,  Boise  Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Boise  1st 
Ward. 


REPORT  OF  CHANGES  31 

Ririe  2nd  Ward,  East  Rigby  Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Ririe 
Ward. 

Lennox  Ward,  Inglewood  Stake,  formed  by  division  of  the  Cen- 
tinela  Ward. 

Calgary  2nd  Ward,  Lethbridge  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
the  Calgary  Ward. 

Taber  2nd  Ward,  Lethbridge  Stake,  formed  by  division  of  the 
Taber  Ward. 

Lemhi  Ward,  Lost  River  Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Salmon 
Ward. 

Menan  2nd  Ward,  Rigby  Stake,  formed  by  division  of  the 
Menan  Ward. 

Arlington  Ward,  San  Bernardino  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
the  Riverside  Ward. 

Wards  Discontinued: 

Kimball  Ward,  Alberta  Stake,  membership  transferred  to  near- 
by wards. 

Hamilton  Ward,  Gunnison  Stake,  membership  transferred  to 
Gunnison  and  Centerfield  Wards. 

Avon  Ward,  Hyrum  Stake,  membership  transferred  to  the 
Paradise  Ward. 

Eden  Ward,  Minidoka  Stake,  membership  transferred  to  Hunt 
Branch. 

Independent  Branches  Made  Wards: 

Basin  Ward,  Big  Horn  Stake,  formerly  Basin  Branch. 

Cody  Ward,  Big  Horn  Stake,  formerly  Cody  Branch. 

Powell  Ward,  Big  Horn  Stake,  formerly  Powell  Branch. 

Worland  Ward,  Big  Horn  Stake,  formerly  Worland  Branch. 

Naglee  Park  Ward,  Palo  Alto  Stake,  formerly  Naglee  Park 
Branch. 

Tracy  Ward,  San  Joaquin  Stake,  formerly  Tracy  Branch. 
Turlock  Ward,  San  Joaquin  Stake,  formerly  Turlock  Branch. 

Independent  Branches  Organized: 
Jefferson  Branch,  Alberta  Stake. 
Eagle  Branch,  Boise  Stake. 
Fruitland  Branch,  Duchesne  Stake. 
Strawberry  Branch,  Duchesne  Stake. 

Hunt  Branch,  Minidoka  Stake,  formerly  part  of  Eden  Ward. 
Animas  Branch,  Mt.  Graham  Stake,  formerly  part  of  the  Lords- 
burg  Ward. 

Auburn  Branch,  Sacramento  Stake,  formerly  part  of  the  North- 
ern California  Mission. 

Placerville  Branch,  Sacramento  Stake,  formerly  part  of  North- 
ern California  Mission. 


32  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  1  First  Day 

lone  Branch,  San  Joaquin  Stake,  formerly  part  of  the  Northern 
California  Mission. 

Oakdale  Branch,  San  Joaquin  Stake,  formerly  part  of  the  North- 
ern California  Mission. 

Cascade  Branch,  Weiser  Stake,  formerly  part  of  Emmett  2nd 
Ward. 

Independent  Branches  discontinued: 

Pershing  Branch,  Alberta  Stake,  disorganized. 

Kellogg-Wallace  Branch,  Spokane  Stake,  transferred  to  the 
Northwestern  States  Mission. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  with  humility  that  I  seek  the 
sustaining  influence  of  your  faith  and  prayers  while  I  endeavor 
to  fill  this  most  important  responsibility. 

The  Ways  of  the  World 

I  have  been  impressed,  since  this  call  came  to  me,  with  the 
fact  that  it  is  very  easy  for  the  children  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  in 
their  lives,  to  follow  the  will  and  the  ways  of  the  masses.  There 
seems  to  be  something  that  naturally  attracts  us  in  our  weakness 
to  go  with  the  ways  of  the  world.  In  so  doing  we  lose  sight  of 
the  fact  that  one  of  the  greatest  gifts  bestowed  upon  us  is  our 
own  free  agency,  and  that  free  agency  of  ours  should  compel  us 
to  make  our  own  decisions,  to  exercise  our  own  judgment,  to  know 
where  we  are  going,  and  to  know  the  means  by  which  we  expect 
to  arrive  at  our  destination.  There  is  so  much  that  could  be  said 
upon  this  subject  because,  unwittingly,  it  would  seem  that  so 
many  of  us  are  sacrificing  this  right  of  free  agency.  We  are  so 
imbued  with  the  idea  that  we  must  do  as  the  world  does,  be  one 
with  our  neighbors  regardless  of  what  their  ideals  and  ambitions 
may  be,  that  we  are  unwittingly  forfeiting  the  right  to  make  our 
own  judgments  and  our  own  decisions. 

Objectives  of  Life  Sidetracked 

There  are  few  of  us  who,  if  we  were  to  take  a  trip,  would 
not  give  some  concern  to  the  vehicle  in  which  we  would  travel, 
the  road  along  which  we  would  walk  or  go,  and  the  goal  we  would 
seek  as  a  destination.  Now  all  of  these  things  seem  commonplace 
to  us  in  our  everyday  life,  but  when  it  comes  to  knowing  where 
we  are  going,  so  far  as  life  is  concerned,  where  our  goal  is,  the 
objective  of  our  creation,  the  fulfilling  of  our  purposes  here  upon 
this  earth,  we  seem  to  be  very  easily  sidetracked. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


33 


I  was  very  much  impressed  in  reading  recently  a  statement 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.    He  said: 

Consider  for  a  moment,  brethren,  the  fulfilment  of  the  words  of  the 
prophet;  for  we  behold  that  darkness  covers  the  earth,  and  gross  darkness 
the  minds  of  the  inhabitants  thereof — that  crimes  of  every  description  are 
increasing  among  men — vices  of  great  enormity  are  practiced — the  rising 
generation  growing  up  in  the  fulness  of  pride  and  arrogance — the  aged 
losing  every  sense  of  conviction  and  seemingly  banishing  every  thought 
of  a  day  of  retribution — intemperance,  immorality,  extravagance,  pride, 
blindness  of  heart,  idolatry,  the  loss  of  natural  affection;  the  love  of  this 
world,  and  indifference  toward  the  things  of  eternity  increasing  among 
those  who  profess  a  belief  in  the  religion  of  heaven,  and  infidelity 
spreading  itself  in  consequence  of  the  same — men  giving  themselves  up 
to  commit  acts  of  the  foulest  kind,  and  deeds  of  the  blackest  dye,  blas- 
pheming, defrauding,  blasting  the  reputation  of  neighbors,  stealing,  rob- 
bing, murdering,  advocating  error  and  opposing  the  truth,  forsaking  the 
covenant  of  heaven,  and  denying  the  faith  of  Jesus — and  in  the  midst 
of  all  this,  the  day  of  the  Lord  fast  approaching  when  none  except  those 
who  have  won  the  wedding  garment  will  be  permitted  to  eat  and  drink 
in  the  presence  of  the  Bridegroom,  the  Prince  of  Peace!  (Teachings  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  p.  47.) 

Loss  of  Natural  Affection 

In  thus  enumerating  the  crimes  of  which  the  world  would,  in 
the  future,  be  guilty,  the  Prophet  Joseph  evidenced  his  true  pro- 
phetic nature — the  power  which  he  possessed,  given  him  from  on 
high  to  see  into  the  future,  for  I  warrant  that  in  the  days  of  the 
Prophet  no  one  realized  the  extent  to  which  the  people  of  the 
world,  would  lose  their,  "natural  affection,"  in  the  years  to  come. 
Today  there  seems  to  be  a  greater  urge  to  destroy  this  "natural 
affection"  than  to  commit  any  other  offense  of  comparable  enormity. 

We  are  for  the  most  part,  not  conscious  of  the  existence  of 
agencies  at  work  in  our  midst  with  this  result  as  their  purpose. 
We  are  losing  one  of  our  most  precious  prizes  which  mankind 
can  hold  on  to  if  they  will. 

Certainly  natural  affection  is  something  that  was  bestowed 
upon  us  at  birth.  We  had  an  abundance  of  love  at  that  time  for 
our  parents.  The  child  loves  its  mother.  We  are  brought  to  a 
time  in  our  lives,  in  the  history  of  this  world,  today,  when  we 
should  begin  to  inquire  as  to  whether  there  is  any  less  degree  of 
affection  existing  between  us,  as  we  grow  to  maturity,  for  our 
parents,  than  that  which  existed  in  the  days  of  our  childhood  and 
our  youth.  If  we  find  the  slightest  difference,  if  we  find  that  there 
has  been  any  loss  of  affection,  then  we  should  examine  our  lives 
carefully  to  ascertain  what  we  can  do  to  bring  about  its  restoration. 
Of  all  the  people  upon  this  earth  we  should  be  the  last  people 
to  consider  accepting  any  of  the  philosophies  of  the  world,  no 
matter  what  the  prize  attached  thereto  might  be,  if  so  to  do  would 
be  to  withdraw  from  that  close  affinity  and  affection  which  must 
exist  between  father  and  son  and  mother  and  daughter  if  we  are 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  1  First  Day 

to  realize  here  in  our  mortal  existence  the  full  purpose  of  our  creation. 

It  is  a  serious  matter  to  me  and  one  which  has  been  brought 
close  to  my  heart,  because  of  my  work  in  our  welfare  program. 
I  am  thrilled  when  I  read  the  statistics  of  how  much  we  have 
accomplished  in  the  welfare  program,  how  many  trainloads,  car- 
loads, shiploads  of  supplies  we  have  sent  to  the  needy  Saints  in 
Europe  and  how  much  we  have  accomplished  in  the  organized 
stakes  of  Zion.  It  seems  as  though  those  things  may  be  measured 
in  tons,  but  there  has  been  a  benefit  come  to  the  people  of  "this 
Church  as  a  result  of  this  welfare  program  of  a  spiritual  nature 
which  cannot  be  measured.  It  cannot  be  estimated,  but  the  good 
which  has  been  accomplished  can  be  seen  in  the  increased  affection 
which  this  work  has  brought  between  the  children  and  the  par- 
ents. If  we  were  to  work  all  the  days  of  our  life  and  sacrifice  all 
of  our  surplus  and  keep  only  that  which  we  actually  need  for 
ourselves  and  bring  into  our  lives  as  a  result  thereof  a  closer  love 
and  affection  for  our  children  than  we  have  heretofore  had,  no 
one  would  deny  but  what  we  have  spent  our  means  well. 

The  Significance  of  the  Home 

It  would  seem  that  all  of  the  philosophies  of  the  world  today 
are  set  upon  destroying  the  home.  As  we  travel  through  the 
world,  the  people  of  the  world  seem  to  have  lost  in  their  lives  the 
significance  of  home.  We  as  Latter-day  Saints  cannot  do  this. 
We  must  still  maintain  the  home  as  a  place  where  we  can  kneel 
down  daily  with  our  children  and  teach  them  to  pray.  Our  home 
is  the  place  where  we  can  teach  them  the  gospel.  We  cannot  be 
saved  in  ignorance,  and  neither  can  our  children.  What  a  won- 
derful work  it  would  be  if  today  we  could  bring  back  into  the 
home  the  teachings  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  a  means  of 
overcoming  the  delinquency  there  is  in  the  world,  among  the 
youth.  We  can't  deny  the  fact  that  there  is  greater  delinquency 
among  the  young  people  of  the  world  than  ever  before.  We  as 
Latter-day  Saints  have  the  responsibility  to  see  to  it  that  this  de- 
linquency of  which  the  world  is  guilty  does  not  creep  into  our 
homes.  I  have  had  occasion  many  times,  to  suggest  that  maybe 
if  we  would  enter  into  this  family  relationship  with  the  same  en- 
thusiasm, with  the  same  ambition  and  the  same  energy  and  the 
same  desire  as  we  do  our  temporal  affairs  that  our  families  and 
the  home  would  mean  more  to  us  than  they  do  now.  It  has  been 
my  thought  for  a  long  time,  certainly  my  considered  opinion  and 
my  testimony  to  you  today  that  one  way  to  combat  divorce  in  the 
wqrld  is  for  men  to  pay  more  attention  to  their  wives  and  for 
wives  to  pay  more  attention  to  their  husbands,  and  let  some  of 
the  things  of  the  world  go  by  and  do  not  take  the  example  of  the 
world  as  that  which  we  must  follow  but  rather  apply  ourselves  to 
the  performance  of  some  of  the  humbler  duties  of  life. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


35 


The  Lord  bless  the  mothers  in  Israel  who  keep  their  flock 
under  their  arms,  who  teach  them  to  pray  at  their  knees,  and  the 
Lord  bless  the  fathers  in  Israel  who  are  willing  to  take  time  off 
from  their  business  and  from  their  farms  to  spend  with  their  sons 
and  their  daughters. 

Virtue  in  Church  Activity 

Of  course  I  see  a  great  deal  of  virtue  in  this  welfare  program. 
If  fathers  would  pull  themselves  away  from  their  work  and  would 
engage  themselves  in  the  various  projects  that  have  been  initiated 
in  this  welfare  program,  they  would  soon  see  the  blessing  to  be 
derived  from  taking  their  sons  with  them  and  mothers  their 
daughters. 

As  I  go  into  the  meetings  of  the  Saints,  I  always  have  a  feel- 
ing, I  have  it  today,  that  the  adversary  has  absolutely  no  power 
over  us  so  long  as  we  are  assembled  here  in  the  Lord's  house  and 
worshiping  him.  Brethren  and  sisters  that  same  protection  goes 
with  us  throughout  our  lives  and  in  all  our  activities  if  our  asso- 
ciations be  with  those  who  have  the  same  ideals  and  the  same 
objectives  in  life.  The  priesthood  was  given  to  us  to  be  a  pro- 
tection, and  in  order  that  it  be  a  orotection  we  must  be  active  in  the 
quorums  to  which  we  belong.  Men  who  associate  actively  in  the 
priesthood  quorums  of  this  Church  will  keep  themselves  from  the 
power  of  the  adversary.  Their  motives  will  always  be  righteous. 
They  will  bring  into  their  homes  a  spirit  and  an  atmosphere  that 
will  keep  their  children  in  the  line  of  their  duty.  It  will  give  to 
each  and  every  one  of  us  a  desire  which  we  cannot  overcome  ex- 
cept we  fulfil  it,  to  see  to  it  that  every  son  and  daughter  with 
whom  we  are  blessed  knows  as  much  about  this  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  as  we  do. 

It  would  be  a  reflection  upon  the  people  of  the  Church  if  their 
sons  and  daughters  as  they  come  to  us  to  be  interviewed  to  go  on 
a  mission  should  tell  us  that  they  had  never  heard  their  father  or 
their' mother  bear  their  testimony.  So  we  should  go  to  our  various 
places  of  labor  throuqhout  the  Church  and  teach  our  people  to  bear 
their  testimonies  to  their  children  and  to  teach  them  the  simple  but 
the  fundamental  princioles  of  this  gospel.  There  will  be  none  of 
our  youth  leave  our  Church  and  join  any  of  the  churches  of  the 
world  if  they  once  have  within  themselves  a  knowledge  of  the  true 
qospel  of  Tesus  Christ  as  restored  through  the  instrumentality  of  the 
Prophet  Joseoh  Smith.  I  tell  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  we  have 
a  responsibility  to  make  of  our  homes  a  sacred  place  where  our 
children  will  want  to  come  and  bring  their  children  and  kneel  with 
us  in  prayer  and  read  the  scriptures  with  us  and  discuss  with 
us  the  problems  of  life. 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  1  First  Dag 

Parental  Influence  in  the  Home 

Now,  if  we  devote  ourselves  to  the  institutions  of  the  world, 
and  they  are  multiplying  daily,  we  will  have  no  time  for  the 
Church.  All  of  us  have  opportunities  to  join  this  organization  or 
that  organization,  and  it  is  time  for  us  to  realize  that  every  or- 
ganization which  we  join,  no  matter  how  good  its  purposes  may  be, 
detracts,  to  some  extent  at  least,  from  our  observing  and  practising 
the  things  which  we  should  do  in  our  home  and  above  all  giving 
of  ourselves  to  our  families.  It  is  not  enough  in  this  day  and  age 
to  make  money,  to  be  able  to  bestow  the  riches  of  the  world  upon 
our  children  to  let  them  live  in  luxury,  give  them  all  of  the  things 
of  life  that  they  might  want.  Better  than  all  that  is  to  give  a  little 
of  ourselves  to  our  children,  that  they  might  know  us  for  what  we 
are  and  feel  of  the  spirit  which  we  have  and  which  we  receive 
through  keeping  the  commandments  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

I  was  reading  the  other  day  what  President  George  Albert 
Smith  said  many  years  ago,  and  in  conclusion  I  want  to  read  his 
statement: 

Grateful  should  we  be  for  a  knowledge  of  the  eternity  of  the  marriage 
covenant.  If  in  this  life  only  have  we  hope  we  would  indeed  be  of  all  men 
the  most  miserable.  The  assurance  that  our  relationship  here  as  parents 
and  children,  as  husbands  and  wives,  will  continue  in  heaven  and  this  is 
but  the  beginning  of  a  great  and  glorious  kingdom  that  our  Father  has 
destined  we  shall  inherit  on  the  other  side,  fills  us  with  hope  and  joy. 
One  of  the  greatest  evidences  to  me  of  the  divinity  of  this  work  is  that  it 
teaches  there  is  life  eternal  on  the  other  side  and  that  there  will  be  a 
reunion  there  of  the  loved  ones  who  have  known  each  other  here,  conse- 
quently as  parents  we  may  well  be  patient  and  loving  toward  our  children, 
for  they  will  eternally  abide  with  us  on  the  other  side,  if  we  and  they 
are  faithful.  The  few  years  that  we  live  here  will  be  regarded  as  a  time 
in  which  we  become  acquainted,  but  when  we  mingle  in  the  other  life,  we 
will  know  each  other  better  than  we  have  here. 

.  President  Wilford  Woodruff  said  on  one  occasion: 

Bless  your  souls,  if  you  live  here  in  the  flesh  a  thousand  years,  as  long 
as  Father  Adam  and  lived  and  labored  all  your  life  in  poverty  and  when 
we  get  through,  if  by  your  acts  you  could  secure  your  wives  and  children 
in  the  first  resurrection  to  dwell  with  you  in  the  presence  of  God  that  one 
thing  would  amply  pay  you  for  the  labors  of  a  thousand  years. 

Now  let  us  make  the  sacrifice,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  of  the 
labors  of  a  day  or  two  a  month  to  spend  with  our  children  and 
help  them  to  gain  a  place  in  the  celestial  kingdom  of  our  Heavenly 
Father,  there  to  dwell  with  us  and  to  add  to  our  glory  eternally. 
I  pray  humbly  this  may  be  our  happy  lot,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG  37 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Tutelve  Apostles 

I  approach  this  task,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  with  a  good 
deal  of  misgiving,  and  I  trust  I  may  have  an  interest  in  your  faith 
and  prayers  the  few  minutes  that  I  occupy.  It  seems  to  me  we 
have  had  thus  far  an  unusual  outpouring  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  The 
counsel  and  advice  that  we  have  received  and  the  fundamental 
teachings  that  have  been  given  certainly  should  give  us  cause  for 
serious  reflection,  and  we  should  go  to  our  homes  encouraged  in 
the  thought  that  we  are  engaged  in  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

The  Message  All-Important 

Some  time  ago  I  was  reading  of  the  laying  of  the  cable  from 
England  to  India,  which,  it  is  said  cost  so  much  effort  and  sacrifice 
and  heartache  because  of  the  encountering  of  so  many  obstacles 
and  difficulties  incident  to  the  frequent  breaking  of  the  cable. 
Finally  it  was  completed  and  to  commemorate  this  great  achieve- 
ment a  celebration  was  held  in  London.  John  Ruskin  was  asked  to 
speak,  and  in  the  course  of  his  remarks  he  is  said  to  have  made 
this  striking  observation: 

I  am  not  concerned  about  the  mechanics  of  this  which  we  are  here 
celebrating;  the  all-important  thing  is  the  message  that  will  be  trans- 
mitted over  this  cable. 

As  I  thought  of  that  and  applied  it  to  the  stirring  messages 
we  have  thus  far  received  in  this  conference,  the  message  of 
eternal  truth,  I  thought  that  after  all  it  is  the  message  that  is  giv- 
ing this  work  its  great  vitaliy. 

Integrity  of  Missionary  Service 

Since  our  last  conference  it  has  been  my  great  privilege  to 
visit  and  tour  two  of  our  missions.  This  has  brought  me  in  close 
contact,  not  only  with  the  mission  presidents  but  with  the  mission- 
aries themselves,  and  I  have  been  tremendously  impressed  with 
the  integrity  of  our  missionary  service,  with  the  young  boys  and 
girls  who  are  called  to  this  activity  of  the  Church.  I  thought, 
where  could  one  find  its  equal?  Here  we  have  a  cross  section  of 
our  youth,  boys  and  girls  who  are  not  called  because  of  their 
scholastic  training;  they  have  not  been  trained  in  the  refinement 
of  the  ministry,  nor  have  they  had  seminary  training,  as  this  is 
understood  outside  of  our  Church.  They  are  called  from  the 
farms,  the  workshops,  and  from  the  schools;  called  to  a  service 
which  is  quite  new  to  them,  yet  they  enter  into  this  new  work 
with  a  spirit  and  energy  which  is  most  impressive  and  inspiring. 

Back  of  all  this,  I  repeat,  is  not  their  training  but  the  great 
message  of  eternal  truth  which  they  have  to  give  to  the  world. 


38  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  1  First  Dag 

If  one  needed  additional  evidence  of  the  ultimate  destiny  of  this 
work,  he  need  but  reflect  on  the  great  missionary  system  of  the 
Church  to  which  President  Smith  has  referred,  and  the  splendid 
work  being  done  by  these  missionaries.  Few  there  are  that  fail, 
very  few  indeed.  Most  of  them  make  good,  and  they  come  through 
with  an  abiding  testimony  of  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  the  divine  mission  of  Jesus,  our  Savior,  that  he  is  the  Christ, 
that  God  lives  and  hears  and  answers  our  prayers.  It  is  one  of 
the  most  heartening  experiences  of  one's  life  to  sit  in  a  testimony 
meeting  of  these  missionaries  and  feel  the  intensity  of  their  spirit 
and  faith,  and  their  devotion  to  this  work.  It  is  the  testimony  we 
feel,  these  unseen  things,  these  hidden  assets,  if  we  may  so  call 
them,  that  give  such  force  to  this  work. 

Tribute  to  Mission  Presidents  m 

Then,  too,  I  want  to  pay  my  humble  tribute  to  these  mission 
presidents  and  their  wives.  They,  too,  are  called  from  all  walks 
of  life.  They  are  asked  to  give  up  their  vocations,  many  of  them 
of  a  lucrative  nature,  and  yet  they  never  waver;  nor  do  their  wives. 
It  is  not  an  easy  task  to  break  those  home  ties  that  have  been  estab- 
lished perhaps  for  a  quarter  of  a  century  or  more  and  to  leave 
home  to  go  into  the  mission  field  to  devote  three  or  four  years 
of  one's  time  and  service  to  this  great  work.  Yet  these  men  and 
women  do  just  that,  and  it  is  certainly  gratifying  to  note  the  lovely 
spirit  they  have,  the  interest  they  take  in  your  boys  and  girls,  the 
personal  interviews  they  have  with  them,  the  help  they  give  them. 
Some  of  the  boys  and  girls  come  poorly  prepared  for  missionary 
service,  and  yet  through  the  kindness  and  generosity  of  these 
splendid  men  and  women  they  are  brought  into  line,  not  in  un- 
kindness,  but  in  the  spirit  of  love  and  sympathy  and  understanding, 
and  they  are  thus  able  to  adjust  themselves  and  they  come  through 
successfully.  One  young  man  that  I  have  in  mind  ,a  man  who 
comes  from  an  excellent  family,  and  thousands  of  them  are  so 
situated,  a  boy  who  gives  great  promise  to  his  parents,  had  been 
in  the  mission  field  for  twenty-three  months  .  The  school  year 
was  beginning.  He  had  the  opportunity  to  go  to  college,  and 
when  his  mission  president  approached  him  to  see  if  it  would 
be  helpful  to  him,  knowing  of  his  ambition  to  go  to  school,  if  he 
were  released  in  the  twenty-three  months  so  that  he  could  enter 
college,  the  boy  replied,  "No,  I  want  to  finish  out  my  mission. 
That's  the  important  thing  to  me."  It  is  a  lovely  spirit,  and  this  is 
reflected,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  by  these  missionaries,  these 
boys  and  girls  of  yours,  and  you  may  be  proud  of  and  grateful 
to  the  Lord,  for  them. 

Blessings  of  Sabbath  Observance 

Now,  there  is  another  phase  that  has  been  touched  on  in  this 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG  39 


conference  that  I  would  like  to  speak  about  for  a  few  minutes  that 
involves,  too,  our  young  people.  I  had  the  privilege  of  attending 
a  sacrament  meeting  in  this  city  during  the  summer  vacation. 
To  attend  this  meeting  I  came  up  from  my  home  in  Utah  County 
with  my  daughter,  and  as  we  were  riding  along  Sunday  after- 
noon we  passed  a  ball  park.  Two  games  were  being  played, 
one  in  one  end  and  the  other  in  the  other  end  of  the  park,  and 
there  were  hundreds  of  people  there  and  a  large  number  of  boys 
and  girls  witnessing  these  games.  My  daughter  remarked:  "Dad, 
just  what  harm  is  there  to  these  boys  and  girls  in  watching  this 
sport?  Isn't  there  a  rather  wholesome  influence  about  it?  They're 
doing  no  harm  here  Sunday  afternoon;  aren't  they  better  here 
than  they  would  be  some  other  places?"  I  was  rather  challenged. 
These  questions  are  always  a  challenge.  I  didn't  say  anything. 
We  rode  along.  We  had  a  lovely  meeting.  The  spirit  of  it  was 
so  impressive;  it  was  reflected  in  the  music,  the  administering  of 
the  sacrament  as  it  should  be,  and  in  very  deed  we  were  made 
to  feel  that  we  were  remembering  the  Lord,  that  we  were  renewing 
our  covenants,  taking  upon  ourselves  again  his  holy  name,  being 
made  to  feel  that  he  is  near,  and  when  the  meeting  was  over,  we 
felt  that  we  wanted  to  keep  his  commandments. 

After  meeting,  we  rode  home.  My  daughter's  reaction  was 
heartening,  "Dad,"  she  said,  "I  know  the  answer  now.  I  know 
the  harm.  I  know  the  danger.  If  this  thing  is  permitted  to  go  on, 
boys  and  girls  will  lose  their  desire  for  the  lovely  thing  that  we 
have  had  tonight,  and  something  will  be  taken  out  of  their  lives 
that  they  can't  recover."  She  continued,  "If  men  and  women  and 
boys  and  girls  could  just  realize  what  it  means  to  be  spiritually 
fed  on  the  Sabbath  day,  many  of  our  problems  of  keeping  this 
day  holy  would  be  solved."  Well,  I  thank  the  Lord  for  that 
faith.  I  thank  the  Lord  for  that  inspiration  because  it  inspired 
me.  I  know  it  isn't  an  easy  thing  to  say  to  boys  and  girls  and  to 
our  children  that  they  must  not  do  this  or  that.  We  should,  if 
possible,  find  some  answer,  some  solution  to  these  problems. 

Problem  of  Sunday  Baseball 

I  commend  to  you  a  method  that  has  been  adopted  in  one  of 
our  stakes.  Baseball  on  Sunday  became  a  challenge.  The  stake 
presidency  took  the  problem  in  hand  and  by  contacting  those 
who  were  on  the  committee  to  provide  this  athletic  activity  the 
way  was  opened  whereby  the  games  could  be  played  on  a  week- 
night.  Flood  lights  were  provided,  and  the  men  who  had  it  in 
charge  felt  good  about  it.  They  are  our  own  people.  They  are 
Latter-day  Saints.  They  are  not  very  active,  but  they  are  not 
unsympathetic,  and  I  thought  to  myself  if  we  could  approach  un- 
derstandingly  some  of  these  important  problems  perhaps  we  could 
find  a  solution  by  sitting  down  around  a  table  and  together  working 


40  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  1  first  Day 

them  out.  I  know  these  problems  are  not  easy  to  solve,  but  I  do 
know  that  if  we  can  make  our  young  people  feel  the  strength  of 
our  message,  if  we  can  make  them  feel  this  hidden  something 
that  gives  strength  and  power  to  these  boys  and  girls  who  I  said 
are  not  so  well  trained  but  who  have  testimony  and  faith,  if  our 
children  can  be  made  to  feel  the  strength  and  power  that  comes 
from  the  spirit  of  our  Heavenly  Father  and  from  serving  him,  and 
from  keeping  his  commandments,  many  of  our  problems  will  be 
solved.  None  of  us  know,  as  I  have  said  many  times,  all  the 
answers,  but  we  do  know  that  there  is  a  spiritual  force  in  this 
great  work.  I  would  that  we  could  translate  it  into  the  lives  of 
our  people,  that  we  could  make  them  all  feel  as  you  and  I  feel, 
in  this  house  of  worship  this  day,  that  divine  presence,  to  make  them 
feel  resolved  in  their  hearts  as  we  feel  resolved  in  ours,  that  as 
for  us  we  will  try  to  serve  the  Lord  and  to  keep  his  Commandments. 
May  God  help  us  so  to  do,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn:  "Come,  O  Thou 
King  of  Kings." 

BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  have  been  delighted  with  the  mes- 
sages we  have  heard  from  the  brethren  during  this  conference.  I 
love  to  meet  with  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  have  a  great  apprecia- 
tion in' my  heart  for  you  fine  people  and  for  your  kindness  to  me 
as  I  am  privileged  to  visit  in  the  various  stakes  of  Zion. 

Financial  Obligations 

In  trying  to  think  what  I  might  say  today  that  could  be  an 
encouragement  or  help  to  you,  I  thought  I  might  say  a  few  words  on 
our  financial  and  temporal  obligations  to  the  Church  because  they 
are  many,  and  there  are  some  among  us  who  feel  that  they  are 
heavy.  One  stake  president  said:  "It  costs  a  lot  to  be  a  member 
of  this  Church,"  and  I  have  thought  a  great  deal  of  it.  I  have 
thought  of  the  payment  of  our  tithing,  our  fast  offerings,  our  wel- 
fare contributions,  our  ward  budget,  our  great  missionary  work, 
the  building  of  our  chapels  and  temples  and  places  of  worship,  the 
temple  work  we  are  doing,  and  genealogical  work,  and  I  feel  as 
many  of  you  do  that  when  we  consecrate  all  that  we  have  to  the 
building  up  of  the  kingdom  of  God  it  really  is  a  substantial 
thing  as  far  as  our  temporal  obligations  and  responsibilities  are 
concerned. 

The  Lord  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith'  that  he  had 
never  given  a  temporal  commandment  unto  his  children,  that  all 
of  his  commandments  were  spiritual,  for  they  all  have  a  spiritual 


BISHOP  LE  GRAND  RICHARDS  41 


meaning  and  a  spiritual  development  and  a  spiritual  purpose,  be- 
cause behind  all  that  the  Lord  is  attempting  to  do  in  the  earth, 
he  has  indicated  that 

.  .  .  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — ito  bring  to  pass  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man.   (Pearl  of  Great  Price,  Moses  1:39.) 

And  hence,  all  of  his  commandments  have  been  given  for 
the  achievement  and  the  accomplishment  of  that  great  objective. 

"No  Man  Can  Serve  Two  Masters"  k 

However,  the  Lord  has  made  some  definite  statements  with 
respect  to  temporal  things  and  our  responsibility  therein.  That  is, 
I  suppose,  what  Jesus  meant  when  he  said: 

No  man  can  serve  two  masters:  for  either  he  will  hate  the  one,  and 
love  the  other;  or  else  he  will  hold  to  the  one,  and  despise  the  other.  Ye 
cannot  serve  God  and  mammon.    (Matt.  6:24.) 

I  take  it  he  understood  that  in  the  lives  of  most  men  the  time 
would  come  when  they  might  have  to  make  a  choice  as  to  whether 
or  not  they  should  choose  God  or  mammon,  and  it  is  my  con- 
viction and  my  testimony  that  when  we  make  the  choice,  if  we 
choose  to  serve  the  Lord,  it  is  just  like  forming  a  partnership  with 
him.  He  will  be  on  our  side,  he  will  see  us  through;  and  I  wonder 
sometimes  if  we  really  sacrifice  when  we  choose  to  serve  the  Lord, 
rather  than  to  serve  mammon,  and  make  the  necessary  effort  and 
contributions  required  to  show  our  faith  in  him. 

You  will  recall  that  before  the  Lord  needed  any  financial  help 
to  promote  the  interests  of  his  kingdom  in  the  earth  he  gave  un- 
to Cain  and  Abel  the  law  of  sacrifice.  The  Lord  did  not  need 
the  fruits  of  the  field  from  Cain  nor  the  first  of  the  flocks  from  Abel, 
but  they  needed  to  give  it;  they  needed  to  put  their  faith  to  the 
test.  They  needed  to  be  able  to  show  to  God  whether  they  served 
and  chose  God  or  mammon,  for  you  cannot  serve  two  masters. 

And  you  will  recall  that  Cain  brought  of  the  fruit  of  the  field, 
and  his  offering  was  not  acceptable  to  the  Lord,  and  Abel  brought 
the  firstlings  of  his  flock  and  of  the  fat  thereof.  We  are  told  that 
Abel's  .offering  was  accepted.  We  do  not  know  just  why  Cain's 
was  not;  probably  he  did  not  bring  the  best  of  his  field,  but  at 
any  rate,  he  was  very  much  perturbed  and  put  out  when  his  offering 
was  not  accepted,  and  hardness  entered  into  his  heart.  The  light 
of  the  Lord  left  him,  and  he  turned  to  that  terrible  sin  of  murder- 
ing his  own  brother.  And  the  Lord  indicated  to  Cain  when  he  ex- 
pressed his  displeasure:  "If  thou  doest  well,  shalt  thou  not  be 
accepted?"    (Gen.  4:7.) 

We  often  see  in  our  midst  brethren  who  turn  away  from  the 
Lord,  who  cease  to  pay  their  tithes  and  their  offerings,  who  neglect 
to  prove  to  God  that  they  love  him  better  than  they  love  mammon, 
and  darkness  comes  into  their  lives,  and  they  do  things  that  are 


* 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Dag 


not  pleasing  to  the  Lord.  They  walk  in  the  ways  of  darkness  and 
cease  to  help  to  build  the  kingdom  of  God  in  the  earth. 


You  will  recall  the  experience  of  Job  when  the  devil  came  to 
the  Lord  and  the  Lord  said:  "Hast  thou  considered  my  servant 
Job?"  (Job  1:8.)  And  the  devil  rather  laughingly  said,  in  substance: 

Oh,  that  is  easy.  You  have  surrounded  him  with  so  much.  You 
have  giMen  him  everything.  No  wonder  he  is  your  friend,  but  just  let 
me  take  it  away  from  him. 

The  Lord  gave  him  the  privilege;  told  him  he  might  take 
everything  away  if  he  would  just  spare  his  life.  So  he  took  every- 
thing away,  his  lands  and  his  herds,  and  his  buildings  were  burned, 
and  his  family  died,  and  when  his  body  was  afflicted  and  sore,  he 
lay  there,  and  his  wife  said  unto  him:  "Dost  thou  still  retain  thine 
integrity?" 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  would  like  to  read  the  testimony 
that  came  from  Job.  I  think  it  is  one  of  the  most  beautiful  things 
that  we  have  in  holy  writ,  for  this  is  what  Job  said: 

Oh  that  my  words  were  now  written!  oh  that  they  were  printed  in 
a  book! 

That  they  were  graven  with  an  iron  pen  and  lead  in  the  rock  for  ever! 

For  I  know  that  my  redeemer  liveth,  and  that  he  shall  stand  at  the 
latter  day  upon  the  earth: 

And  though  after  my  skin  worms  destroy  this  body;  yet  in  my  flesh 
shall  I  see  God: 

Whom  I  shall  see  for  myself,  and  mine  eyes  shall  behold,  and  not 
another.    (Job  19:23-27.) 

Is  there  any  amount  of  wealth  in  this  world  that  could  take 
the  place  of  that  positive  assurance  that  Job  had  in  his  heart,  as  a 
friend  of  God,  through  the  testimony  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that 
though  his  body  should  be  destroyed  yet  in  his  flesh  should  he  see 
God — whom  he  should  see  for  himself? 


Malachi  gives  us  this  call  back  to  service  of  the  Lord  in  the 
matter  of  the  payment  of  our  tithes  and  our  offerings.  I  think  the 
third  chapter  of  Malachi  was  directed  entirely  to  the  people  of 
this  generation,  for  he  begins  that  he  would  send  his  angel  to  pre- 
pare the  way  for  his  coming,  and  then  he  should  come  swiftly  to 
his  temple — that  did  not  occur  in  the  meridian  of  time — and  that 
he  should  come  cleansing  and  purifying  as  refiner's  fire  and  as 
fuller's  soap,  and  then  he  invites  all  Israel  to  return  unto  him, 
and  they  say: 


Experience  of  Job 


Malachi's  Admonition 


BISHOP  LE  GRAND  RICHARDS  43 


.  .  .  Wherein  shall  we  return? 

Will  a  man  rob  God?  Yet  ye  have  robbed  me.  But  ye  say,  Wherein 
have  we  robbed  thee?    In  tithes  and  offerings. 

Ye  are  cursed  with  a  curse:  for  ye  have  robbed  me,  even  this  whole 
nation.   (Malachi  3:7-9.) 

And  I  presume  there,  is  not  one  here  today  who  realizes  what 
the  truth  of  that  statement  was,  for  I  think  there  was  no  church 
or  people  in  all  the  world  paying  tithes  at  the  time  the  Church 
was  restored  in  these  latter  days,  when  the  Lord  sent  his  angel 
to  call  them  back  to  serve  him. 

And  then  the  Lord  said: 

Bring  ye  all  the  tithes  into  the  storehouse,  that  there  may  be  meat 
in  mine  house,  and  prove  me  now  herewith,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  if  I 
will  not  open  you  the  windows  of  heaven,  and  pour  you  out  a  blessing, 
that  there  shall  not  be  room  enough  to  receive  it.  And  I  will  rebuke  the 
devourer  for  your  sakes,  and  he  shall  not  destroy  the  fruits  of  your 
ground;  neither  shall  your  vine  cast  her  fruit  before  the  time  in  the  field, 
saith  the  Lord  of  hosts. 

And  all  nations  shall  call  you  blessed:  for  ye  shall  be  a  delightsome 
land,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts.   (Idem  10-13.) 

A  Delightsome  Land 

Brothers  and  sisters,  when  we  think  of  the  condition  of  this 
land  when  our  pioneer  fathers  came  here,  has  not  the  Lord  ful- 
filled his  promise;  has  he  not  made  it  a  delightsome  land;  has  he 
not  proved  that  he  would  keep  his  promise?  The  Lord  has  indi- 
cated that  he  is  bound  when  we  do  what  he  says,  but  when  we 
do  not  what  he  says,  then  have  we  no  promise.  The  Lord  has 
made  this  a  delightsome  land,  and  all  nations  who  know  us  and 
know  of  our  prosperity  call  us  blessed,  and  out  of  this  land  we  are 
able  to  send  forth  the  gospel  message,  as  David  of  old  saw,  unto 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  for  David  said: 

Out  of  Zion,  the  perfection  of  beauty,  God  hath  shined.  (Psalms 
50:2.) 

There  is  one  part  of  that  third  chapter  of  Malachi  that  we 
do  not  usually  hear  much  about,  and  I  would  like  to  read  it  to 
you  today.  • 

After  the  Lord  said  that  all  nations  should  call  us  blessed, 
he  adds: 

Your  words  have  been  stout  against  me,  saith  the  Lord.  Yet  ye 
say,  What  have  we  spoken  so  much  against  thee? 

Ye  have  said,  It  is  vain  to  serve  God:  [and  we  hear  that  occasionally 
in  our  midst]  and  what  profit  is  it  that  we  have  kept  his  ordinance, 
and  that  we  have  walked  mournfully  before  the  Lord  of  hosts? 

And  now  we  call  the  proud  happy;  yea,  they  that  work  wickedness 
are  set  up;  yea,  they  that  tempt  God  are  even  delivered.  (Mai.  3:13-15.) 

A  Book  of  Remembrance 
In  other  words,  as  the  scriptures  say,  the  xain  falls  upon  the 


44  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  1  First  Day 

just  and  the  unjust,  and  when  we  see  the  unjust  in  our  midst  en- 
joying blessings  of  the  Lord,  sometimes,  in  our  own  estimation, 
beyond  even  the  blessings  of  him  who  walks  in  His  ways  and 
keeps  his  commandments,  we  begin  to  argue  whether  or  not  it 
pays  to  serve  the  Lord.  That  is  what  Malachi  saw,  and  the  Lord 
heard  them,  and  said: 

Then  they  that  feared  the  Lord  spake  often  one  to  another:  and  the 
Lord  hearkened,  and  heard  it,  and  a  book  of  remembrance  was  written 
before  him  for  them  that  feared  the  Lord,  and  that  thought  upon  his 
name. 

And  they  shall  be  mine,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  in  that  day  when 
I  make  up  my  jewels;  and  I  will  spare  them,  as  a  man  spareth  his  own 
son  that  serveth  him. 

Then  shall  ye  return,  and  discern  between  the  righteous  and  the 
wicked,  between  him  that  serveth  God  and  him  that  serveth  him  not. 
(Idem  16-18.) 

I  would  like  to  see  every  friend  of  mine  in  this  Church  have 
his  name  recorded  in  that  book  of  remembrance,  and  I  am  sure  that 
when  he  comes  to  claim  his  jewels,  he  will  realize  that  no  sacrifice 
that  has  ever  been  required  at  his  hands  could  compensate  for  the 
lack  of  that  very  thing,  for  they  will  be  numbered  among  his  jewels. 
That  is  what  I  think  being  partners  with  him  means. 

What  a  promise!  What  a  promise  that  he  will  bless  the  land! 
I  wonder  as  we  go  about  our  daily  duties  from  day  to  day  if  we 
are  able  to  realize  how  much  of  the  joy  and  the  happiness  and  the 
success  that  is  ours  in  life  is  really  ours  by  virtue  of  our  own  doings 
and  how  much  of  it  is  the  result  of  the  blessings  of  the  Lord. 

Redemption  of  Zion 

Do  you  remember  the  statement  of  Daniel  Webster  about  this 
western  part  of  America,  when  he  said  that  he  would  not  vote 
one  cent  from  the  public  treasury  to  place  the  Pacific  coast  one 
inch  nearer  Boston  than  it  was  then?  And  Jim  Bridger,  when 
Brigham  Young  met  him,  said  that  he  would  give  one  thousand 
dollars  if  he  only  knew  we  could  raise  an  ear  of  corn  in  these 
valleys,  but  Isaiah,  Jeremiah,  and  the  prophets  of  old,  had  seen 
the  prosperity  of  Zion  in  these  valleys  of  the  mountains.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  had  declared  that  the  Saints  would  continue  to 
suffer  persecution  and  be  driven,  and  many  would  apostatize,  and 
some  would  be  put  to  death,  and  that  they  should  ultimately  be 
driven  to  the  Rocky  Mountains,  and  here  they  should  become  a 
mighty  people  in  the  Rocky  Mountains. 

I  want  to  read  to  you  two  brief  statements  from  Isaiah  with 
respect  to  what  the  Lord  promised  to  do  in  the  redemption  of  this 
wilderness,  to  make  it  blossom  as  the  rose,  and  I  want  to  say  to 
you  it  is  a  miracle  in  my  mind  the  part  "water"  was  to  play  in 
the  redemption  of  latter-day  Zion. 

Isaiah  said:  "Behold,  I  will  do  a  new  thing,"  and  as  far  as 


BISHOP  LE  GRAND  RICHARDS  45 


my  understanding  of  this  scripture  is  concerned,  that  new  thing 
was  the  great  principle  of  irrigation.  It  is  true  the  Saints  had  to 
make  the  canals,  they  had  to  make  the  ditches,  they  had  to  put  in 
the  dams,  but  the  land  might  have  remained  arid  had  not  the  Lord 
put  into  their  minds  the  inspiration  to  do  this  very  thing,  and 
that  is  what  Isaiah  saw  that  the  Lord  would  do.    He  said: 

Behold,  I  will  do  a  new  thing;  now  it  shall  spring  forth;  shall  ye  not 
know  it?    I  will  even  make  a  way  in  the  wilderness,  and  rivers  in  the  ' 
desert. 

The  beast  of  the  field  shall  honour  me,  the  dragons  and  the  owls: 
because  I  give  waters  in  the  wilderness,  and  rivers  in  the  desert.  .  .  . 
(Isaiah  43:19-20.) 

If  you  want  to  see  the  rivers  in  the  desert,  just  go  up  through 
Idaho  and  see  the  great  canals  that  come  out  of  the  Snake  River. 
They  are  greater  than  many  of  the  rivers  of  the  land. 

[The  Lord  has  done  this]  ...  to  give  drink  to  my  people,  my  chosen. 
This  people  have  I  formed  for  myself;  they  shall  shew  forth  my 
praise. 

And  Isaiah  states: 

I  will  open  rivers  in  high  places,  and  fountains  in  the  midst  of  the 
valleys:  I  will  make  the  wilderness  a  pool  of  water,  and  the  dry  land 
springs  of  water. 

That  they  may  see,  and  know,  and  consider,  and  understand  together, 
that  the  hand  of  the  Lord  hath  done  this,  and  the  Holy  One  of  Israel 
hath  created  it.    (Isaiah  43:20-21;  41:18,  20.) 

,  So  as  you  brethren  gather  in  your  crops  by  day  in  the  harvest » 
time,  remember  that  it  was  the  Lord  God  of  Israel  who  did  this 
new  thing  in  this  great  wilderness  to  make  it  to  prosper  as  a  rose 
and  to  be  a  land  that  would  attract  the  attention  of  all  the  world. 

President  Grant's  Experience 

Now,  I  would  like  to  remind  you  of  a  little  statement  that 

President  Grant  used  to  make  often.    He  said: 

I  believe  that  to  those  who  are  liberal,  the  Lord  gives  ideas,  and 
they  grow  in  capacity  and  ability  more  rapidly  than  those  who  are 
stingy.    I  have  that  faith  and  I  have  had  it  from  the  time  I  was  a  boy. 

I  believe  the  Lord  gives  ideas  to  men  who  are  liberal  and 
men  who  have  desires  to  serve  God,  and  those  who  choose  to 
serve  the  God  of  Israel  rather  than  the  God  of  mammon,  and  I 
remind  you  of  President  Grant's  story.  It  impressed  me  when  I 
was  a  boy.  When  he  heard  Bishop  Woolley,  President  Clark's 
grandfather,  in  a  fast  meeting  ask  the  Saints  to  be  liberal  in  their 
contributions,  he  promised  them  that,  if  they  would  be  liberal,  the 
Lord  would  bless  them  four-fold. 

President  Grant  was  then  only  a  boy.  He  had  fifty  dollars  in 
his  pocket.    He  was  working  at  the  Zion's  Savings  Bank  and  in- 


46  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  1  First  Dag 

tended  to  deposit  it,  but  he  handed  it  to  the  bishop,  and  the  bishop 
wrote  him  a  receipt  for  five  dollars  and  gave  him  forty-five  dollars 
change,  but  President  Grant  indicated  that  he  wanted  to  pay  it  all. 
He  wanted  to  put  the  Lord  in  his  debt,  because  his  mother  needed 
two  hundred  dollars,  and,  if  he  paid  fifty  and  he  got  four-fold,  he 
would  have  his  two  hundred  dollars.  And  Bishop  Woolley  said: 
"Do  you  believe,  Heber,  that  you  will  get  your  two  hundred  dollars 
sooner  if  you  give  this  fifty  dollars  to  the  Lord?" 

He  said:  "I  do."  And  the  bishop  wrote  him  a  receipt  for 
the  other  forty-five  dollars,  and  on  the  way  back  to  the  bank  he 
got  an  idea.  Where  did  he  get  it  from?  He  might  never  have  received 
it  had  he  not  paid  the  fifty  dollars.  God  Almighty  sends  ideas  and 
he  has  regard  for  each  one  of  his  children  individually.  President 
Grant  wired  a  man  in  the  East,  and  in  a  few  days  he  sold  him 
enough  bonds  to  make  $218.50  profit,  so  when  he  paid  the  tithing 
on  it  the  Lord  had  given  him  his  two  hundred  dollars  and  almost 
enough  to  pay  the  tithing. 

Testimony  of  Law  of  Tithing 

I  met  a  man  in  the  East  when  I  was  there  on  a  short-term 
mission.  I  noticed  that  he  paid  a  large  tithing  and  that  he  was 
very  regular  in  the  payment  of  his  tithing,  and  I  said, 

Brother  so-and-so,  you  must  have  a  wonderful  testimony  of  the 
law  of  tithing,  and  he  said,  "I  have." 
I  said:  "Would  you  tell  me?" 

"Well,"  he  said,  "my  wife  and  children  joined  the  Church  a  few 
years  ago  in  England,  but  I  didn't  join  because  I  did  not  have  enough 
faith  to  pay  my  tithing,  and  I  did  not  want  to  be  a  hypocrite.  And  so," 
he  said,  "one  day  when  one  of  the  young  missionaries  was  being  re- 
leased, he  came  to  me  and  said: 

"Brother  so-and-so,  I  want  to  baptize  you  before  I  go  home." 

And  I  said,  "You  cannot." 

"Why  not?" 

"Well,"  I  said,  "I  have  not  the  faith  to  pay  my  tithing,  and  I  am 
not  going  to  join  the  Church  until  I  have." 

And  then  that  young  elder  spoke  up,  under  the  influence  of  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord,  and  the  Lord  heeded  his  words  and  his  promise  when  he 
said:  "Brother  so-and-so,  if  you  will  let  me  baptize  you  before  I  go 
home,  I  promise  you  that  within  a  year  from  now  you  will  be  in  America 
earning  three_  times  as  much  as  you  are  earningtoday." 

I  said:  "All  right,  where  shall  we  go?  That  is  good  enough  for 
me.  If  you  are  a  servant  of  the  Lord,  I  will  take  your  promise."  "Now," 
he  said,  "I  did  not  see  how  in  the  world  it  could  be  fulfilled,  because  I 
was  under  contract  to  work  for  my  company  for  three  years,  and  I 
knew  I  would  not  break  my  contract." 

This  was  during  the  first  world  war  when  we  had  great  diffi- 
culty here  in  America  to  get  dyes  that  would  hold  their  color,  and 
we  sent  representatives  from  America  to  England  to  get  dye 
workers.  They  went  to  this  man's  father,  and  his  father  said: 
"I  am  not  interested,  but  I  have  a  son  who  may  be." 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS  47 


They  went  to  the  son.  The  son  said:  "I  cannot  go.  I  am  under 
contract  with  my  company." 

"Well,  if  we  will  buy  you  off,  will  you  go?" 
And  he  said,  "Yes." 

"Now,"  he  said,  "to  make  the  story  short,  the  Lord  just  threw  in  a 
little  for  good  measure. 

"Within  a  year  I  was  in  America  with  my  family,  and  I  was  earning 
four  times  as  much  as  I  was  when  that  young  elder  made  me  that  pro- 
mise." 

The  Lord  Fulfills  His  Promises 

I  told  the  elders,  where  it  has  been  my  privilege  to  preside  in  the 
mission  field,  if  they  wanted  to  see  what  the  Lord  did  in  the  way  of 
fulfilling  his  promises  just  to  keep  their  eyes  open  as  they  went 
around  among  the  Saints — those  who  kept  the  commandments, 
paid  their  tithes  and  their  offerings — and  compare  them  with  those 
who  failed,  and  they  would' know  that  the  Lord  is  true  to  his 
promises. 

I  say  to  you  brothers  and  you  sisters,  may  God  bless  you,  and 
when  you  give,  remember  you  are  only  giving  to  show  your  loyalty 
to  him  whom  you  have  chosen  to  serve,  for  "No  man  can  serve 
two  masters." 

God  bless  you  all,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  desire  your  faith  and  prayers,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  for  I 
feel  terribly  in  need  of  them.  There  is  nothing,  I  believe,  that  I  ap- 
preciate more  in  all  the  world  than  my  membership  in  the  Church. 
It  is  the  last  thing  I  would  ever  want  to  lose,  and  I  trust  that  with 
your  aid  and  the  aid  that  I  can  get  from  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  I  shall 
be  able  to  carry  on  in  a  life  of  service  unto  the  Church  and  unto  my 
brethren  and  sisters.  I  want  to  thank  all  of  you  who  are  here  who 
have  been  kind  to  me  in  the  visits  that  I  have  made  to  your  confer- 
ences. I  realize  that  it  is  a  burden  many  times  upon  you,  and  I 
appreciate  it  very,  very  much,  just  as  Bishop  Richards  has  expressed 
his  appreciation. 

Service  Brings  Happiness 

The  great  value,  I  believe,  that  the  Church  has  for  us  is  the  op- 
portunity it  gives  us  to  serve,  for,  after  all,  the  great  benefits  of  life 
come  from  service.  Generous,  open-hearted,  full  service  to  our 
fellows,  I  believe,  is  the  thing  which  brings  us  the  greatest  hap- 
piness. We  can  serve  our  families  and  gain  happiness  by  it;  we 
can  serve  our  friends  and  gain  happiness  by  it;  but  if  we  would  be 
happy  we  must  serve  and  serve  generously,  and  I  believe  myself 
that  the  greatest  happiness  that  comes  to  me  from  observing  the 
standards  of  the  Church  and  meeting  my  obligations  to  it  is  the  spir- 


48  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  1  First  Day 

itual  values  that  I  get  out  of  that  service.  I  would  like  to  be  able  to  say 
that  I  always  serve  for  the  sheer  love  of  service.  I  don't  know 
whether  I  can  honestly  say  that  or  not,  but  I  hope  I  can.  I  would 
like  to  suggest  that  all  of  us  who  serve,  serve  for  the  same  motive, 
out  of  sheer  joy  and  love  of  service.  I  would  that  every  man  who 
accepts  a  responsibility  in  a  priesthood  quorum  would  accept  it  be- 
cause of  the  opportunity  for  service  which  it  offers  him;  not  that 
he  be  a  good  deacon  so  he  may  be  the  president  of  his  quorum.  Not 
that  he  be  a  good  priest  that  some  day  he  may  be  made  president 
of  the  elders'  quorum.  Not  to  be  a  good  bishop,  that  when  the 
stake  is  reorganized  he  may  become  the  president  of  the  stake,  be- 
cause if  he  serves  with  that  motive,  there  is  very  likely  to  be  a  day 
of  disappointment  for  him,  but  if  he  serves  because  he  loves  to,  if 
he  serves  because  he  loves  his  fellows,  then  whether  the  other  things 
come  or  not,  he  is  never  disappointed* 

Service  of  High  Quality 

People  may  not  appreciate  his  service,  always,  but  he  will  al- 
ways have  deep  down  in  his  heart  a  feeling  that  he  has  done  his 
best,  and  that  is  the  great  satisfaction,  I  believe,  that  comes  from  it. 
That  is  the  motive  that  prompts  our  young  men  and  young  women 
to  accept  calls  for  the  mission  field.  .We  have  heard  this  afternoon 
of  the  great  numbers  that  are  in  the  mission  field,  preaching  the 
gospel,  trying  to  tell  the  world  that  after  all  there  has  come  back 
to  the  earth  a  true  testimony  as  to  the  personality  of  the  God  we 
worship  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ.  We  believe  that  through  that 
testimony,  through  the  acceptance  of  that  testimony  and  the  ad- 
herence to  the  standards  and  the  requirements  that  the  Church  of- 
fers its  members  that  there  is  a  guarantee  to  us,  a  future,  even  after 
this  life,  of  exaltation  in  the  presence  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  the 
boon  that  is  greater  than  any  earthly  blessing  that  we  may  enjoy. 
We  feel  duty  bound,  because  we  have  that  privilege,  to  carry 
it  to  other  people  and  to  offer  it  to  them.  That  is  service  in  its  high 
sense. 

The  other  day  when  I  asked  a  young  man  who  wants  to  go 
on  a  mission  why  he  wants  to  go,  he  said  it  was  because  he  had 
always  grown  up  with  the  idea  that  he  would  like  to  go  out  and 
serve  the  Church  in  that  capacity.  Another  young  man  whom  I 
asked  why  he  wanted  to  go,  said  that  while  he  was  in  the  service 
of  his  country  he  gained  a  fervent  testimony  as  to  the  truth  of  the 
gospel,  but  he  saw  the  woeful  lack  of  that  testimony  in  the  lives  of 
his  associates,  and  he  wanted  an  opportuniy  to  go  out  and  teach  re- 
pentance to  the  people  of  the  world.  That  is  service  of  a  high  de- 
gree and  a  high  quality.  Service  is  the  great  blessing,  I  believe, 
that  we  get  from  it  all. 

Loyalty  to  the  Church  demands  that  we  render  that  service 
to  it,  whether  it  be  a  financial  obligation  of  which  we  have  just  heard 
or  whether  it  be  a  spiritual  calling,  for  we  do  distinguish  in  our 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


49 


minds  usually  between  the  temporal  and  the  spiritual.  The  Church 
asks  that  service  of  us,  and  loyalty  to  the  Church  demands  that  we 
give  it. 

Missionary  Opportunities  at  Home 

Now  in  the  giving  we  sometimes  miss  our  opportunities,  and 
I  wonder  if  you  would  allow  me  to  call  your  attention  this  after- 
noon, for  just  a  moment,  to  a  field  for  missionary  work  that  is  not 
always  emphasized  but  which  seems  to  be  always  with  us,  and  to 
me  is  a  very,  very  important  field.  I  have  called  the  attention  of  the 
various  officers  of  the  stakes  I  have  visited  this  year  to  this,  but 
there  are  many  of  you  here  whom  I  shall  not  have  the  opportunity 
to  visit  and  whose  attention  I  wish  to  call  to  it. 

The  other  day  in  visiting  a  stake,  a  stake  within  this  valley,  I 
discovered  that  there  are  within  that  stake  two  hundred  and  fifty 
men,  more  than  twenty-one  years  of  age  who  have  never  been  suf- 
ficiently interested  in  the  priesthood  to  be  ordained  to  any  office  in 
it.  I  wonder  who  they  are.  I  wonder  why  they  are.  I  wonder  if 
they  are  in  that  position  because  some  of  us,  who  have  undertaken 
the  responsibility  of  guiding  our  quorums,  have  been  negligent  or 
at  least  have  overlooked  a  responsibility  and  an  opportunity.  Now 
those  men,  in  most  cases  I  believe,  are  men  who  have  been  born  in  the 
Church.  They  represent  the  same  fine  qualities  as  to  their  heritage 
that  the  active  members  do,  but  for  some  reason  they  were  never 
brought  into  service  and  have  never  been  ordained.  Those  of  us 
who  are  neighbors  to  those  people  have  a  responsibility  toward 
them,  it  seems  to  me.  We  may  live  by  them,  week  after  week  and 
month  after  month,  and  even  year  after  year,  and  we  take  them  for 
granted,  and  we  never  offer  them  an  opportunity.  We  never  offer 
them  an  inducement  to  go  with  us  as  we  perform  our  religious 
service.  I  have  known  of  cases  of  men  who  have  been  offered  such 
opportunities  who  were  brought  into  activity  and  made  rapid  prog- 
ress within  the  Church,  and  I  recommend  that  all  of  us  make  it  a 
personal  responsibility  to  do  all  we  can  to  bring  into  activity  those 
men  who  are  near  us. 

Record  of  Stake  Missionary  Work 

During  the  ten  years  that  these  stake  missionaries  have  been 
operating  under  the  direction  of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy — 
it  is  eleven  years  now  I  believe — but  in  the  first  ten  years  we  made 
a  baptismal  record  of  twenty-two  thousand  odd  baptisms  and  at 
the  same  time  we  reported  back  into  activity  through  our  stake  mis- 
sions thirty  odd  thousand  people.  Not  too  long  ago  I  made  an 
analysis  of  those  twenty  odd  thousand  baptisms  and,  brethren  and 
sisters,  I  was  astonished  to  find  out  that  one  out  of  three  of  those 
baptisms  was  the  baptism  of  a  person  over  nine  and  under  fifteen 
both  of  whose  parents  are  members  of  the  Church.  Now,  why  is 
that?   Why  do  we  let  them  slip  by  us  that  way?   Is  it  the  fault  of 


* 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


the  father  or  the  mother?  Is  it  the  fault  of  a  ward  teacher?  Is  it  the 
fault  of  a  ward  clerk  who  fails  to  notify  his  bishop  of  the  approach- 
ing age  of  the  children  of  his  ward,  or  is  it  our  fault  when  we  don't 
bring  it  to  your  attention  from  the  pulpit?  But  it  certainly  must  be 
the  fault  of  somebody  because  when  our  stake  missionaries  ap- 
proached those  young  people,  seven  thousand  of  them  asked  to  be 
baptized,  and  have  come  into  the  Church  to  receive  its  opportuni- 
ties and  its  blessings.  There  are  others  we  know,  over  fifteen, 
of  Mormon  parentage,  who  have  come  back  through  the  ministry 
of  our  stake  missionaries.  They  have  done  a  grand  work,  but  the 
thing  that  startles  me  is  that  unless  we  pay  strict  attention  to  our 
duties  as  leaders  in  the  priesthood  that  that  condition  is  likely  to 
go  on  and  on,  and  next  year  there  will  be  an  additional  group  writ- 
ten off  the  records  of  the  Church  because  nobody  has  taken  the  care 
to  teach  them  the  importance  and  the  value  of  baptism  into  the 
Church.  And  then  I  find  that  we  have  an  army  of  forty-nine  thou- 
sand people  at  home  who  are  over  twenty-one  years  of  age  and  still 
in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  Many  of  them  are  fine  men  at  heart 
and  they  just  lack  the  inducement  that  some  of  us,  if  we  were  in 
touch  with  them,  could  render  to  bring  them  into  activity,  and  ac- 
tivity is  what  it  takes  to  keep  them  going.  I  have  known  those  men 
who  have  started  in  the  welfare  work  to  go  right  on  to  advance- 
ment in  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  and  when  I  tell  you  that  I  have 
visited  stakes  where  there  was  only  one  out  of  three  families  in  the 
stake  who  had  a  man  in  it  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  you 
will  realize  that  we  have  another  responsibility  to  teach  our  boys 
and  girls  the  value  of  being  married  in  the  temple  of  God  for  time 
and  for  all  eternity.  It  has  already  been  suggested  to  you  this  after- 
noon. I  have  found  one  stake  where  only  thirty-five  families  out 
of  a  hundred  could  possibly  be  represented  in  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood, and  later  I  found  one  worse  than  that.  The  best  I  ever  found 
was  a  hundred  and  seven  percent. 


Brothers  and  sisters,  while  we  are  spending  hundreds  of  thou- 
sands of  dollars,  as  we  are,  to  send  men  to  Japan  and  Africa  and  all 
intervening  points  what  are  we  doing  with  these  people  who  are 
right  around  our  doors,  to  bring  them  into  activity?  I  give  that  to 
you  as  our  great  objective  in  the  missionary  work  for  the  immediate 
future.  Let  us  see,  brothers  and  sisters,  if  we  can  do  it.  Now  for 
that  purpose  perhaps  each  and  every  one  of  us  will  have  to  make  of 
himself  a  specially-called  emissary  to  his  neighbor,  especially  his 
inactive  neighbor,  that  he  may  show  him  the  benefits  and  the  bless- 
ings of  the  gospel;  but  before  he  goes  to  that  neighbor  he  must  trim 
his  sails.  He  must  analyze  himself,  and  he  must  bring  his  conduct 
into  strict  conformity  with  the  teachings  of  the  gospel,  and  if  he 
can  go  to  him  and  show  him  by  the  life  he  lives  the  benefits  he  gets 
out  of  activity  in  the  Church,  the  chances  are  far  greater  of  a  con- 


CONCERN  FOR  INACTIVE  NEIGHBORS 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


51 


version  than  if  he  has  to  apologize  for  his  own  conduct  when  he  tries 
to  teach  the  advantages  of  adhering  to  the  teachings  of  the  Church. 

That  is  our  problem,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  live  in  a  way  that 
every  man  fwho  comes  amongst  us  to  study  us  will  see  the  fine  side 
of  the  gospel  reflected  in  our  lives  and  that  he  will  have  no  just  cause 
for  adverse  criticism  of  us.  That  is  a  large  order,  I  will  admit,  but 
nevertheless  it  is  the  duty  and  responsibility  of  every  man  and  woman 
in  the  Church  to  show  by  the  way  he  lives  the  values  that  are  in 
the  gospel,  and  those  values  are  usually  spiritual.  If  you  are  highly 
spiritual,  those  values  will  shine  from  your  eyes  like  the  reflected 
light  from  a  diamond.  You  can't  prevent  it.  When  you  live  it,  it 
shows,  and  when  you  don't,  it  shows  too,  but  it  is  a  dark  light  which 
comes  forth  when  you  are  not  living  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Now  I  trust,  brothers  and  sisters,  that  we  may  have  the  power 
of  God  to  do  it.  When  we  bowed  our  heads  here  this  afternoon, 
we  asked  God  to  give  us  his  Spirit.  It  is  my  experience  that  when 
I  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  God,  it  is  because  I  try  to  put  myself  in  con- 
formity with  it,  and  when  I  do  that,  I  enjoy  hearing  what  is  prompted 
in  others  by  the  Spirit  of  God.  If  I  can't  do  it,  I  get  no  pleasure  out 
of  it.  So  when  we  come  to  these  gatherings,  brethren,  and  when 
we  undertake  our  duties  as  leaders  in  the  wards  and  stakes,  let  us 
try  and  put  ourselves  in  a  position  so  that  we  can  expect,  when  we 
ask  it  of  God,  his  Spirit  to  guide  and  direct  us. 

May  he  bless  us  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Two  of  the  speakers  this  afternoon  have  expressed  their  ap- 
preciation for  the  courtesy  and  the  consideration  that  is  given 
them  by  the  Saints  as  they  move  out  on  Church  assignments 
throughout  the  stakes  and  missions  of  the  Church.  I  have  likewise 
in  my  heart  an  appreciation  for  that  service.  Not  the  least  of  the 
compensations  that  come  to  me  from  my  present  appointment  is 
the  fact  that  wherever  I  am  sent  under  such  conditions,  during 
that  period  of  service,  I  am  visiting  with  and  laboring  with  the 
finest  people  in  the  community  and  the  finest  people  in  the  world. 

It  is  about  some  of  the  observations  that  I  have  made  while 
thus  privileged  that  I  would  like  to  speak  for  a  few  moments, 
and  time  is  too  short  to  go  into  much  detail,  but  merely  to  men- 
tion a  few  of  those  observations. 

Dangers  Confronting  Our  Homes 

Elder  Moyle  has  called  our  attention  to  some  of  the  tragic 
things  that  warn  us  that  there  are  dangers  confronting  our  homes. 
The  increase  of  crime  and  the  increase  of  divorce,  the  increase  of 


52  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  1  First  Day 

juvenile  delinquency,  all  indicate  that  there  is  a  weakening  of 
the  good  influence  of  the  family  home,  and  an  increase  in  the 
dangers  that  threaten  to  destroy  it.  From  the  stress  that  has  been 
laid  upon  the  subject  of  home  and  marriage,  not  only  in  the 
scriptures,  but  also  in  our  conferences  from  time  to  time,  it  would 
appear  that  it  has  always  been  considered  fundamental  to  the  estab- 
lishment of  a  strong  religious  life  and  the  building  of  the 
kingdom  that  the  homes  of  our  people  be  safeguarded  and  mar- 
riage be  held  sacred. 

In  the  first  marriage  that  was  performed  upon  this  earth, 
the  Lord  made  four  significant  declarations.  First,  that  it  was 
not  good  for  man  to  be  alone;  second,  that  woman  was  formed 
to  be  a  help  meet  for  man;  third,  that  they  twain  should  be  of  one 
flesh;  and  fourth,  that  man  should  leave  father  and  mother  and 
cleave  unto  his  wife. 

At  a  later  time  the  Lord  reinforced  that  by  saying: 

.  .  .  What  therefore  God  hath  joined  together,  let  not  man  put 
asunder.  (Matt.  19:6.) 

Lofty  Concepts  of  the  Home 

There  is  no  other  people  on  the  face  of  the  earth,  that  I  know 
anything  about,  who  have  the  lofty  concepts  of  marriage  and 
the  sacredness  of  the  home  as  do  the  Latter-day  Saints.  In  a 
revelation  given  in  our  day  the  Lord  said: 

.  .  .  marriage  is  ordained  of  God  unto  man. 

Wherefore,  it  is  lawful  that  he  should  have  one  wife,  and  they 
twain  shall  be  one  flesh,  and  all  this  that  the  earth  might  answer  the  end 
of  its  creation.  (D.  &  C.  49:15-16.) 

There  are,  however,  unmistakable  evidences  that  the  same 
dangers  that  are  abroad  are  among  us  and  are  seeking  to  destroy 
this  God-given  institution,  the  home.  Many  there  are  who  have 
given  counsel  in  the  scientific  fields,  relating  to  family  life,  but 
largely  have  their  findings  about  the  homes  in  the  modern  day  been 
taken  from  broken  and  unhappy  homes.  It  has  been  my  privilege 
to  visit,  with  the  others  of  the  General  Authorities,  regularly  in 
the  finest  homes  of  our  people,  and  it  is  from  those  visits  that  I 
have  gleaned  some  things  that  I  should  like  to  mention  to  you,  sug- 
gestive of  the  elements  that  build  for  strength  and  happiness  in  the 
home. 

Love  and  Desire  for  Children 

If  I  were  to  name  the  first  thing  that  impresses  me  always  in 
these  fine  Latter-day  Saint  homes,  I  would  say  it  was  a  love  for 
and  a  desire  for  children.  These  are  homes  where  the  having  of 
children  was  not  delayed  because  of  some  social  or  educational 
or  financial  objective,  and  where  the  size  of  the  families  has  not 
been  limited  by  the  practice  of  birth  control. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


53 


A  few  years  ago  I  read  some  statistics  taken  from  the  United 
States  Census  Bureau  which  indicated  that  out  of  180,000  divorces 
for  that  given  year,  57  percent  were  in  homes  where  there  were 
no  children,  21.2  percent  where  there  was  only  one  child;  and  in 
families  with  five  or  more  children,  divorces  ranged  all  the  way 
from  none  to  only  .7  of  one  percent.  Clearly  is  it  evident  that 
parental  love  and  oneness  that  come  from  planned  parenthood 
is  a  safe  and  sure  guarantee  to  the  happiness  of  the  home. 

Miracle  of  Motherhood 

Sometime  ago  I  was  privileged  to  hear  something  about  the 
influence  that  had  come  from  one  of  these  homes  in  a  letter  that 
was  written  by  a  lovely  daughter  who  had  just  given  birth  to 
her  first  baby.  In  the  early  hours  of  the  morning  the  baby  had 
come,  and  late  in  the  afternoon  she  was  in  a  reflective  mood;  in 
this  reflective  mood  she  had  written  home  to  her  family.  In  her 
letter  she  told  first  about  her  impressions  and  feelings  at  the  mir- 
acle of  motherhood,  how  she  had  been  privileged  to  be  a  partici- 
pant in  this  wonderful  creation.    Then  she  wrote  this: 

I  wonder  that  we  women  are  not  required  to  undergo  even  more  than 
labor  pains  to  bring  these  little  ones  from  another  world  into  this  one. 
It  seems  so  right  that  we  through  pain  are  forced  to  slip  for  a  few  minutes, 
at  least,  half-way  into  another  sphere,  to  sort  of  bring  our  baby  by  the 
hand  into  this  new  world. 

The  beauty  of  that  girl's  thinking  about  the  lofty  ideals  of 
womanhood  and  the  sacred  calling  of  the  mother  in  the  home  is 
matched  only  by  that  which  I  heard  in  Canada  when  I  interviewed 
a  young  man  who  was  preparing  to  go  on  a  mission.  I  sought 
to  find  out  what  his  idea  and  standards  had  been  with  respect 
to  honoring  womanhood.  He  looked  me  unflinchingly  in  the  eye 
and  replied: 

Brother  Lee,  my  mother  has  taught  me  all  my  life  that  a  mother 
can  rear  her  daughter,  but  it  takes  a  mother  plus  a  good  pure  girl  in 
order  to  rear  her  son  properly. 

Guarantees  of  a  Happy  Home 

I  am  reminded  of  the  remark  of  a  young  man  to  his  sweet- 
heart and  her  reply,  when  he  planned  to  postpone  their  marriage 
because  of  finances.  He  said  to  her  somewhat  facetiously:  "I 
think  probably  all  I  can  promise  you  is  a  sagebrush  home  in  Idaho," 
and  she  replied  :  "Well,  that  is  fine,  then  if  we  ever  get  anything, 
it  will  belong  to  both  of  us  and  not  just  you." 

I  am  thinking  of  that  mother  blessed  with  a  family  of  girls 
who  kneeled  down  each  night  and  prayed  God  that  somewhere 
there  would  be  a  mother  rearing  some  sons  worthy  to  become 
the  husbands  of  her  daughters,  and  then,  the  daughters  finally 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  1  First  Dag 

married.  In  talking  with  the  mothers  of  the  sons,  she  found  that 
those  mothers  had  been  praying  ever  since  their  boys  were  born 
that  somewhere  God  would  be  preparing  some  girls  worthy  to 
become  the  wives  of  their  sons. 

I  say  to  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  such  lofty  concepts  of  home, 
family,  and  the  responsibilities  of  home  and  family,  are  certain 
guarantees  to  a  happy  and  successful  home. 

Coming  home  on  the  train  from  California  this  last  week,  I 
rode  with  one  of  these  lovely  mothers  whom  I  have  known  and 
who  has  reared  an  excellent  family.  We  talked  about  the  things 
that  had  helped  to  keep  her  family  in  line.    She  said: 

Brother  Lee,  I  made  it  my  practice  and  rule,  when  my  children  came 
along  that  I  was  going  to  make  as  many  contacts  with  my  children  in 
the  home  as  I  possibly  could.  I  was  always  there  when  they  went  to 
school;  I  planned  to  give  up  everything  else,  if  necessary,  to  be  there 
when  they  came  home;  I  was  there  when  they  had  their  parties  and  their 
friends  in  the  home;  and  I  always  waited  up  after  the  evening  parties  in 
order  to  greet  my  children  when  they  came  home  from  the  party,  be- 
cause I  found  that  at  such  moments  I  was  able  to  encourage  a  frankness 
between  us,  and  it  permitted  me  to  enjoy  their  confidences  that  over  the 
years  builded  a  comradeship  which  kept  them  safe  in  times  of  difficulty. 

What  a  blessing  is  such  a  wise  mother!  Such  children,  so 
taught,  with  whom  mothers  and  fathers  have  made  such  comrades, 
in  times  of  stress  and  storm  will  turn  to  mother  and  father  as  the 
ship  laboring  in  the  storm  to  the  port  for  safety. 

Love  In  the  Home 

The  Apostle  Paul,  because  apparently  of  the  importance  that 
he  saw  of  love  in  the  home,  made  this  statement: 

Husbands,  love  your  wives,  even  as  Christ  also  loved  the  church, 
and  gave  himself  for  it;  .  .  . 

So  ought  men  to  love  their  wives  as  their  own  bodies.  (Eph.  5:25, 

28.) 

And  another  prophet  condemned  the  infidelity  of  men  and 
their  unfaithfulness  to  their  companions,  those  who  had  failed 
in  their  parental  responsibilities  in  these  words: 

For  behold,  I,  the  Lord,  have  seen  the  sorrow,  and  heard  the  mourn- 
ing of  the  daughters  of  my  people  in  the  land  of  Jerusalem,  yea  and  in 
all  the  lands  of  my  people,  because  of  the  wickedness  and  abominations 
of  their  husbands. 

...  Ye  have  broken  the  hearts  of  your  tender  wives,  and  lost  the 
confidence  of  your  children,  because  of  your  bad  examples  before  them 
and  the  sobbings  of  their  hearts  ascend  up  to  God  against  you.  And 
because  of  the  strictness  of  the  word  of  God,  which  cometh  down  against 
you,  many  hearts  died,  pierced  with  deep  wounds.  (Book  of  Mormon, 
Jacob  2:31,  35.) 

Children  Made  Partners 


I  have  found  in  these  Latter-day  Saint  homes  that  one  of 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


55 


the  characteristics  that  mark  them  as  outstanding  is  that  the 
family  has  been  made  into  a  partnership.  Father  and  mother  in 
the  early  days,  managing  the  income,  have  given  small  weekly 
allowances  to  the  children  to  make  them  partners.  As  they  have 
grown  older,  there  has  been  a  sort  of  partial  partnership  with 
father  and  mother  as  the  parent  corporation,  and  still  older,  a 
full  partnership,  and  then  in  old  age  the  parents  sell  to  the  chil- 
dren and  retire  on  the  income  from  the  properties  thus  disposed 
of.  Learning  how  to  do  on  the  farm,  having  a  part  in  homemaking 
and  the  family  earnings  is  a  sure  guarantee  against  juvenile  de- 
linquency. The  blase  g'irl  who  is  overpainted  and  immodestly 
dressed  presents  but  the  unlovely  picture  of  the  unhappy  girl  who 
is  making  a  bid  for  a  kind  of  popularity  that  personal  endowments 
did  not  provide.  The  boy  with  his  first  smoke  and  the  first  drink 
and  the  beginning  of  profanity  ofttimes  is  one  who  is  trying  to 
flag  a  feeling  of  inferiority,  and  acts  thus  to  make  himself  seem- 
ingly equal  to  a  difficult  situation.  The  kinds  of  homes  that  I  have 
been  describing,  as  found  among  the  leaders  throughout  the  stakes 
and  missions  of  this  Church,  are  homes  where  delinquency  is 
rarely  to  be  found,  because  of  the  responsibilities  that  have  been 
given  to  the  children  throughout  their  growing  years.  Individual 
responsibilities  assigned  to  family  members  seems  most  vital  in 
the  building  of  these  successful  homes. 

Respect  for  Each  Other 

I  see  these  families  showing  respect  towards  each  other; 
father  to  mother,  and  affection  for  her,  and  mother  to  father;  no 
quarrelings,  no  bickerings  before  the  children  at  least,  misunder- 
standings talked  out  sensibly — I  saw  one  such  home  with  nine 
lovely  children  where  the  children  bear  testimony  to  the  fact 
that  they  have  never  heard  their  father  and  mother  quarrel.  The 
result  is  now  that  in  the  nine  homes  of  these  children,  following 
this  period  of  instruction,  and  the  good  example  of  parents,  there 
are  nine  more  lovely  and  secure  families  living  happily  together. 

I  contrast  that  with  the  lament  of  a  father  who  said:  "What 
is  the  matter  with  my  family?  In  every  one  of  their  homes,  now 
they  are  married,  they  are  having  trouble,  and  divorce  is  threat- 
ening." I  saw  the  kind  of  home  they  grew  up  in,  and  I  con- 
trasted it  with  this  other  home  where  safety  and  security  have 
been  provided. 

Maintenance  of  Spiritual  Contacts 

The  maintenance  of  spiritual  contacts,  the  exercise  of  family 
prayers,  the  constant  attention  to  Church  duties  have  all  been 
some  of  the  things  that  have  helped  these  homes  to  be  successful, 
and  so  as  I  close  with  these  few  observations,  may  I  remind  you 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  1  First  Day 

that  the  Lord  has  said  that  those  who  are  sealed  in  the  temple  by 
the  Holy  Spirit  of  Promise  shall  pass  by  the  angels  and  the  gods, 
which  are  set  there,  to  their  exaltation  in  all  things. 

May  I  call  that  to  your  attention,  -you  brethren,  reminding 
you  that  your  marriages  shall  be  eternal  and  shall  be  per- 
petuated through  eternity  only  so  long  as  you  keep  the  covenants 
that  you  have  made.  The  Spirit  of  Promise  is  the  spirit  which 
searches  the  hearts  of  men,  and  only  when  his  sealing  approval  is 
given — only  then  will  your  blessings  become  eternal. 

God  grant  that  the  homes  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  may  be 
blessed  and  that  there  shall  come  into  them  happiness  here  and  the 
foundation  for  exaltation  in  the  celestial  kingdom  in  the  world 
to  come,  for  which  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

Brother  Ursenbach,  I  believe  they  have,  in  military  matters, 
what  they  call  a  reserve,  which  they  throw  in  at  times  when  they  feel 
there  is  an  emergent  need,  so  we  will  ask  you  to  constitute  for  to- 
morrow a  reserve  force  upon  which  we  may  call. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  of  the  Salt  Lake  Region 
will  sing  as  the  closing  number:  "Peace  I  Leave  With  You."  The 
closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Robert  J.  Potter  of  the 
Bear  River  Stake,  of  Garland,  Utah,  after  which  this  conference 
will  adjourn  until  10  o'clock  tomorrow,  Saturday  morning. 

The  proceedings  of  that  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  at 
Salt  Lake  Citv,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the  following 
stations:  KDSH  at  Boise,  KSUB  at  Cedar  City.  KID  at  Idaho  Falls, 
KEYY  at  Pocatello,  KDVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at  Vernal,  and  over 
KTYL  at  Mesa  by  transcription. 

We  should  like  to  express  at  this  time  our  keen  appreciation  and 
gratitude  to  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  for  furnishing  us 
with  such  beautiful  and  well  rendered  songs  during  this  Conference. 

Tomorrow  morning  the  audience  should  be  in  their  seats  not 
later  than  ten  minutes  before  the  time  of  beginning. 

The  Presiding  Bishopric  will  meet  the  Bishoprics  of  the  Church 
here  in  the  Tabernacle  tonight  at  7:00  p.m.  The  members  of  all 
Bishoprics  and  Ward  Clerks  are  requested  to  be  in  attendance.  The 
members  of  the  Presidencies  of  Stakes  are  also  invited. 

Singing  by  the  Singing  Mothers:  "Peace  I  Leave  With  You." 
Elder  Robert  J.  Potter,  President  of  the  Bear  River  Stake,  of- 
fered the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Saturday,  October  2,  10:00  a.m. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY  57 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Saturday  morning  at  10:00. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  presided  at  this  session,  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency, 
conducted  the  services.  The  singing  for  this  session  of  the  Confer- 
ence was  furnished  by  the  congregation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  third  session  of  the  119th  Semi- Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  President  George 
Albert  Smith  is  presiding.  He  has  requested  that  David  O.  McKay 
conduct  the  exercises.  We  are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  morning,  all  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church,  except  Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  who  is 
under  doctor's  care  convalescing  at  home;  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  who  is 
presiding  over  the  European  Mission;  and  President  S.  Dilworth 
Young,  who  is  presiding  over  the  New  England  Mission. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL,  and 
by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the  following  stations:  KDSH 
at  Boise,  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at  Poca- 
tello,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at  Vernal,  and  over  KTYL  at 
Mesa  by  transcription. 

These  services  will  also  be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  over 
a  loud  speaking  system  and  by  television.  All  general  sessions  of 
the  Conference  will  be  heard  and  seen  in  the  Assembly  Hall  in  the 
same  way. 

Any  important  messages  and  calls  that  come  to  us  for  persons 
supposed  to  be  in  attendance  at  the  Conference  will  be  announced  at 
the  dismissal  of  this  meeting  over  the  loud-speaking  system  on  the 
grounds.  Everyone  would  do  well  to  listen  carefully  to  such  an- 
nouncements. 

The  singing  during  this  morning's  session  will  be  by  the  Con- 
gregation led  by  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  with  Elder  Roy  M. 
Darley  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  morning's  services  by  the  congregation  sing- 
ing: "O  Say,  What  Is  Truth?" 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Golden  D. 
Carlston  of  the  North  Sanpete  Stake. 

As  an  opening  number,  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn:  "O  Say, 
What  is  Truth?" 

President  Golden  D.  Carlson,  of  the  North  Sanpete  Stake,  of- 
fered the  opening  prayer. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn:  "O  Ye  Mountains  High." 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dag 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Brethren,  sisters  and  friends  —  those  listening  here  and  else- 
where: I  propose  in  the  few  minutes  allotted  to  me  to  talk  primarily 
to  the  Mormon  people,  but  I  would  feel  complimented  if  any  others 
would  care  to  listen.  It  is  trite  to  say  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  has  many  characteristic  teachings — those  not 
accepted  and  taught  by  other  churches  as  we  teach  them.  Some 
of  these  are  basic  and  therefore  fundamental  to  Mormonism,  as 
you  all  know.  Among  them  are  that  Joseph  Smith  was  the  recipi- 
ent of  divine  visions,  visitations,  and  revelations,  that  the  Book  of 
Mormon  is  a  God-given  volume  to  the  world  which,  by  reason  of 
the  miraculous  way  it  came  forth,  is  the  most  marvelous  book  in 
print  today  and  that  the  Holy  Priesthood — the  authority  to  act  for 
and  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ — was  given  to  Joseph  Smith  and 
Oliver  Cowdery  by  the  laying  on  of  hands  of  heavenly  messengers 
— first,  John  the  Baptist,  and  a  little  later,  the  Apostles  Peter,  James, 
and  John.  To  members  of  our  Church  these  are  actual  facts  to 
which  countless  thousands  of  them  bear  fervent  testimony,  saying 
in  effect  they  really  do  know,  not  believe  only,  that  these  things  are 
true.  Incidentally,  may  I  say  testimony  bearing  of  this  nature  is, 
as  you  know,  a  characteristic  practice  among  us. 


Since  the  current  policy  of  interviewing  returned  missionaries 
by  some  one  of  the  General  Authorities  began  a  dozen  years  ago,  I 
have  interviewed  hundreds  of  these  young  people  and  on  ques- 
tioning, at  least  ninety-nine  percent  of  them  readily  and  positively 
declared  they  knew  certainly  that  God  lives  and  that  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  his  Church.  Were  these 
young  people  telling  the  truth?  Did  they,  and  can  any  one,  posi- 
tively know  that  God  lives?  Multitudes  of  worldly  people  answer, 
nay.  But  in  such  a  case  a  negative  answer  has  no  value.  All  it 
can  do  is  to  show  that  the  witness  is  without  knowledge.  The 
testimony  of  a  single  witness  who  has  the  facts  far  outweighs  the 
testimony  of  the  multitudes  who  have  no  facts.  We  read  that 
Jesus  once  declared: 

My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  his  that  sent  me. 

If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether 
it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself.  (John  7:16-17.) 

Further,  on  one  occasion  addressing  the  question  to  his  disciples, 
Jesus  asked: 

But  whom  say  ye  that  I  am? 

And  Simon  Peter  answered  and  said,  Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son 
of  the  living  God. 

And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  him,  Blessed  art  thou,  Simon 


Testimonies  of  Returned  Missionaries 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL  59 


Bar-jona:  for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my 
Father  which  is  in  heaven.  (Matt.  16:15-17.) 

The  Latter-day  Saints  accept  this  teaching,  and  multitudes 
among  them  declare  they  know  by  personal  experience  that  it  is 
the  truth.  "But  how  can  they  know?"  the  doubter  asks.  Those 
having  the  knowledge  rarely,  if  ever,  claim  they  have  ever  seen 
or  heard  God.  (But  the  boy  Joseph  Smith  asserted  that  he  both 
saw  and  heard.)  "Then  how  can  they  know?"  the  doubter  asks. 
The  answer  is:  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  as  Moroni  de- 
clared. (See  Moroni  10:4-5.)  Was  it  not  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  that  Peter  got  his  knowledge? 

Avenues  of  Getting  Knowledge 

There  are  avenues  of  getting  knowledge  other  than  those  of 
seeing,  hearing,  or  touching.  One  of  them  is  mind  and  feeling.  If 
one  has  a  pain,  does  he  not  know  it?  How?  Through  his  feelings. 
If  he  is  elated,  or  sad,  or  depressed,  or  hungry,  does  he  not  know 
it?  It  is  through  our  feelings  that  much  of  our  knowledge  comes. 
In  his  work  of  translating  the  Book  of  Mormon,  how  did  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  know  when  a  particular  translation  was  correct?  By 
a  "burning"  in  his  bosom,  he  declared  —  that  is,  by  a  feeling  of 
perfect  assurance. 

Many  a  prayer  has  been  divinely  answered  while  the  petitioner 
was  still  on  his  knees.  How  did  he  know  the  answer  came  from 
above?  By  the  way  he  felt — the  feeling  of  satisfaction,  of  elation, 
of  perfect  assurance,  of  right  accompanying  the  mental  impressions 
received.  But  it  is  well  for  us  to  remember  that  mental  impressions 
may  come  from  two  different  sources — one  from  above,  the  other 
from  below — from  the  Lord,  or  from  Satan.  We  may  know  the 
source  of  the  impression  by  the  way  we  feel.  If  it  is  from  the  devil, 
it  is  never  accompanied  by  a  feeling  of  joyous  satisfaction  and  posi- 
tive assurance  of  right — a  characteristic  of  impressions  that  come 
from  the  Lord.  The  one  who  prays  need  not  be  deceived  by  im- 
pressions that  come  into  his  mind  in  answer  to  prayer.  Divine  im- 
pressions have  accompanying  characteristics  of  genuineness. 

Vision  Given  to  Joseph  Smith 

Yes,  God  does  live.  The  Father,  Son,  and  Holy  Ghost  are 
three  separate  personal  beings,  alike  in  form,  in  whose  image  man 
is  made.  In  order  that  these  basic  fundamental  truths,  lost  to  the 
world  through  centuries  of  erroneous  teachings,  might  again  be 
available  to  people  of  our  day,  a  new  revelation  was  necessary,  and 
this  was  given  to  the  fourteen-year-old  Joseph  Smith  in  the  form 
of  the  most  glorious  vision  ever  given  to  mortal  man,  so  far  as  the 
records  indicate  —  a  vision  in  which  Father  and  Son  appeared 
simultaneously — given  to  this  uneducated,  backwoods  boy  in  order 
"  .  .  .  that  I  might  show  forth  my  wisdom  through  the  weak  things 


60  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

of  the  earth"  (D.  &  C.  124:1)  — a  youth  who  three  and  one-half 
years  later  was  told  by  a  messenger  from  heaven  that  his  name 
should  be  had  for  good  and  evil  among  all  nations,  kindreds,  and 
tongues.  Yes,  Joseph  Smith  was  divinely  called,  a  truth  to  which 
his  works  and  the  personal  testimony  of  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
his  followers  sincerely  testify.  And  judged  solely  by  his  works — 
the  measuring  stick  universally  employed  in  determining  great- 
ness in  men — Joseph  Smith  surely  presents  a  challenge  to  every 
normal-minded  adult  human  being  interested  in  the  good  and  hap- 
piness of  himself  and  fellowmen,  a  challenge  to  give  careful  study 
and  thorough  investigation  to  his  claims  and  teachings.  Personally, 
I  believe  that  even  very  many  of  our  Mormon  people  are  more  or 
less  careless  and  indifferent  to  the  significance  of  the  message  Joseph 
Smith  was  called  to  deliver  to  the  world. 

Satan  Responsible  for  World  Troubles 

In  this  connection,  it  is  perhaps  well  to  remind  ourselves  that 
Satan  the  devil,  whom  I  mentioned  a  moment  ago,  is  a  real  personal 
being,  a  spirit  brother  of  ours  with  a  spirit  body  in  form  like  that 
of  all  other  men.  He  is  here  on  earth  with  a  multitude  of  other 
spirit  children  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  He  and  his  hosts  are  doing 
all  they  can  to  handicap  the  work  of  the  Lord  by  handicapping  the 
Father's  children  here  in  mortality.  All  our  troubles,  sorrows, 
miseries,  sins,  and  wickedness  stem  right  back  to  Satan,  who 
through  his  temptations  and  machinations  leads  men  away  from 
the  paths  of  peace,  fair  dealing,  and  righteous  living,  from  the  love 
of  God  and  love  of  their  fellow  mortals. 

When  traveling  about  Europe  twelve  to  fifteen  years  ago,  we 
frequently  met  people  who  said,  "There  is  no  God  who  loves  us 
and  whose  children  we  are;  otherwise,  he  never  would  have  per- 
mitted the  First  World  War,  entailing  misery  and  destruction  to 
many  millions  of  human  beings."  Of  course  the  answer  of  Mor- 
monism  to  such  false  conclusions  is  that  Satan,  and  not  God,  is 
responsible  in  the  final  analysis  for  these  troubles.  To  every  child 
that  comes  into  mortality  our  Father  in  heaven  has  given  his  free 
agency — freedom  to  do  as  he  pleases,  freedom  to  yield  to  the  temp- 
tations and  power  of  Satan,  freedom  to  reject  God  and  righteous- 
ness. These  matters  are  fairly  well  understood  by  Latter-day 
Saints,  but  not  by  many  of  their  non-Mormon  brethren.  Yes, 
Satan  is  the  father  of  lies,  the  inspiration  of  wickedness,  and  the 
source  of  wars.  Years  ago  a  great  newspaper  in  the  Middle  West 
entitled  its  lead  editorial  "Hitler,  the  Devil  Incarnate."  God  works 
through  men  willing  to  obey  him,  to  lead  his  mortal  children  to 
paths  of  righteousness.  Likewise,  Satan  works  through  men  will- 
ing to  yield  to  temptations,  to  bring  troubles  and  destruction  to 
God's  children.  Whether  we  serve  God  or  Satan  is  a  matter  for 
the  individual  to  decide.    But  having  given  each  person  his  free 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


61 


agency,  God  holds  him  responsible  for  the  way  he  uses  it — whether 
for  the  good  and  uplift,  or  otherwise,  of  his  fellow  men. 

The  Power  of  Satan 

Relative  to  Satan,  perhaps  he  has  more  influence  among  men 
today  than  ever  before  in  human  history.  We  have  yet  no  treaty 
of  peace  with  Germany  or  Japan,  and  none  as  yet  in  sight,  though 
fighting  with  these  countries  ended  more  than  three  years  ago.  In 
the  First  World  War,  Armistice  Day  came  the  11th  of  November. 
In  the  following  June  a  treaty  of  peace  with  Germany  was  signed. 
What  is  the  trouble  now?  My  answer  is  Satan.  I  think  the  leaders 
of  certain  nations  who  have  a  voice  in  making  treaties  are  in  the 
power  of  Satan.  And  Satan  does  not  want  peace.  The  more 
trouble,  fighting,  and  wickedness  in  the  world,  the  more  Satan 
laughs.  How  childish,  weak,  and  stupid  many  of  us  are!  We  yield 
more  or  less  readily  to  our  destroyer,  both  in  matters  that  affect 
us  in  person  and  in  mass.  But  Russia  is  wholly  atheistic.  In  all  the 
public  schools  there,  from  the  kindergarten  to  the  university,  the 
children  are  taught  the  Satanic  doctrine  that  there  is  no  God.  The 
"law  of  the  jungle"  rules  in  government  circles.  When  will  treaties 
of  peace  conformable  to  Christian  standards,  in  the  making  of  which 
Russia  has  a  voice,  become  effective  in  Germany  and  Japan? 

But  we  need  not  look  abroad  to  see  troubles  and  unchristian 
conduct.  We  have  plenty  in  our  beloved  America.  But  whether 
in  our  country  or  abroad,  the  ultimate  cause  is  the  same — the  in- 
fluence of  Satan.  And  this  influence  is  largely  manifested  through 
a  universal  human  trait — that  of  selfishness.  Have  not  all  the  major 
wars  of  history  been  due  to  selfishness,  especially  when  associated 
with  the  similar  traits  of  ambition  and  greed?  The  Christian  rule 
of  conduct  is  indicated  by  the  second  great  commandment:  "Love 
thy  neighbor  as  thyself."  If  you  do  this,  then  necessarily  you  treat 
your  neighbor  as  you  would  like  to  be  treated  in  similar  circum- 
stances. In  other  words,  you  observe  the  Golden  Rule,  a  thing  so 
difficult  to  do  that  perhaps  no  one  fully  succeeds  in  doing  it.  But 
the  rule  expresses  the  Christian  ideal.  If  this  ideal,  even  approxi- 
mately, motivated  the  makers  of  international  treaties,  peace  be- 
tween nations  would  soon  be  here — the  great  desideratum  of  the 
vast  majority  of  the  people  of  every  country. 

Devil-Inspired  Troubles 

Now  in  our  own  country  what  do  we  see?  A  multitude  of  devil- 
inspired  troubles,  most  of  them  having  their  roots  in  uncontrolled 
and  excessive  selfishness,  exhibited  by  excessive  prices  of  necessi- 
ties, work  stoppages,  strikes,  mass  picketing,  lockouts,  crimes,  and 
indulgence  in  sinful  practices,  pressure  groups  making  inordinate 
demands,  struggles  to  get  something  for  nothing — to  name  only  a 
few  of  them.   Unless  America  wakes  up  to  the  grave  dangers  of 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


the  trend  of  the  times  and  takes  steps  to  curb  and  elminate  these 
evils,  her  doom  is  sealed  as  a  land  of  free,  prosperous,  and  happy 
people.  This  land  is  to  continue  as  a  "choice  land  above  all  other 
lands,"  (words  divinely  spoken)  onjy  on  condition  of  the  right- 
eousness of  her  inhabitants. 

Latter-day  Saints  will  observe  that  I  have  said  nothing  new 
— nothing  that  they  do  not  already  know.  But  my  purpose  in  say- 
ing these  things  is  to  call  them  again  to  our  attention.  In  obedience 
to  the  divine  will  given  to  us  by  revelation,  we  partake  weekly  of 
the  emblems  of  the  Holy  Sacrament  as  a  reminder  and  for  a  re- 
newal of  our  covenants.  The  Lord  knows  we  have  very  good  for- 
getters;  he  knows  we  need  to  be  frequently  reminded. 


Brethren  and  sisters,  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  we  need  to  repent  of  sinful  worldly  practices 
in  which  many  of  us  indulge  more  or  less.  We  need  to  bring  our 
selfish  desires  and  practices  within  the  limits  of  the  Golden  Rule. 
We  need  to  cultivate  humility  and  do  more  sincere  praying,  par- 
ticularly in  our  family  circles.  We  need  to  keep  more  vividly  in 
mind  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  and  with  more  determination 
increase  our  efforts  to  govern  our  lives  accordingly,  that  is,  imple- 
ment these  commandments  in  our  daily  living. 

Everyone  of  us  has  more  or  less  influence  with  those  who  see 
and  know  how  we  act,  how  we  live.  And  since  we  are  all  ex- 
pected to  be  missionaries  and  teach  the  gospel  of  Christ  our  Lord 
to  all  the  world,  we  should  keep  in  mind  the  fact  that  in  the  long 
run  the  most  effective  way  the  majority  of  us  can  do  this  is  by  ex- 
ample. We  are  all  familiar  with  the  old  saying,  "I  would  rather 
see  a  sermon  than  hear  one" — a  very  natural  attitude  to  take.  With 
the  Apostle  James  we  teach  that  faith  without  works  is  dead  and 
that  in  the  great  day  of  judgment  we  shall  be  judged  according  to 
our  works. 


In  this  connection  may  I  mention  the  Fourth  Commandment 
which  enjoins  us  to  keep  holy  the  Sabbath  day — a  commandment 
so  frequently  violated  by  multitudes  of  people,  even  by  some  of  our 
own  people.  Whatever  non-members  may  do  in  violation  of  this 
holy  day  does  not  justify  us  in  any  degree  whatsoever  in  doing  like- 
wise on  this  day.  We  cannot  go  to  movies,  or  ball  games,  or  other 
kinds  of  commercial  entertainments.  We  may  not  go  hunting,  or 
fishing,  or  golfing,  on  the  Sabbath  without  violating  the  holiness 
of  the  day — such  is  a  doctrine  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  we 
interpret  it,  notwithstanding  the  teachings  of  some  professing  Chris- 
tians to  the  contrary.  The  Lord  has  spoken  in  modern  days  on 
this  subject. 

I  have  spoken  of  some  characteristic  teachings  of  the  Church 


Repentance  Needed 


Observance  of  Sabbath  Day 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


63 


of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  In  addition  we  have  some 
teachings  that  are  at  the  basis  of  every  acceptable  Christian  life. 
Some  of  these  are  indicated  in  the  Thirteenth  Article  of  Faith: 

We  believe  in  being  honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and 
in  doing  good  to  all  men.  .  .  . 

Brethren  and  sisters,  God  has  again  showed  himself  and  spoken 
to  man  in  modern  times.  He  is  a  personal  being  in  whose  image 
we,  his  children  are  made  both  in  the  spirit  and  the  flesh.  This  is 
his  Church,  the  only  one  on  earth  that  he  recognizes  as  his  own,  a 
truth  that  we  declare  not  boastfully  but  in  humility,  very  thankful 
that  we  have  been  given  eyes  to  see,  ears  to  hear,  hearts  to  feel,  and 
minds  to  understand. 

God  help  us  all  to  accept  and  continue  loyal  and  faithful  to 
these  truths  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Somehow  or  other,  this  task  never  seems  to  become  any  easier. 
In  fact  at  times  I  feel  that  it  becomes  more  difficult,  and  I  earnestly 
hope  that  you  will  sustain  me  with  your  thoughts  and  prayers  and 
that  my  Father  in  heaven  will  give  me  utterance. 

Testimony  of  Informed  Witness 

I  was  struck  by  a  thought  that  Dr.  Merrill  presented  in  the 
opening  paragraphs  of  his  talk,  that  the  testimony  of  one  informed 
witness  is  worth  infinitely  more  than  the  testimony  of  many  who 
don't  know.  I  have  often  made  the  observation  that  an  idiotic 
opinion  multiplied  by  fifty  million  is  still  an  idiotic  opinion.  Some- 
times our  children  endeavor  to  induce  us  to  give  them  permission 
to  do  things  we  know  they  shouldn't  do,  with  the  well-worn  phrase 
that  "everybody  is  doing  them." 

But  no  matter  what  everybody  does,  an  error  is  still  an  error 
even  though  it  is  multiplied  millions  of  times.  So  is  an  evil,  and 
it  doesn't  matter  how  popular  or  how  glamorous  or  how  universal 
evils  become,  they  are  still  evils.  .Some  evils  have  been  made  very 
glamorous,  very  appealing  and  very  popular,  but  we  must  be  aware 
of  the  fact  that  they  are  still  what  they  are,  regardless  of  who  par- 
takes of  them  or  what  they  are  called,  or  what  appearance  they 
assume.  History  has  proved  many  times  over  that  the  opinion  of  one 
man  who  knows  and  who  knows  that  he  knows,  the  opinion  of  one 
man  who  has  the  truth  and  proclaims  it,  is  much  more  important 
than  the  opinions  of  many  millions  who  don't  know. 

Events  of  a  Century  Ago 
I  can't  look  at  this  audience  this  morning  without  thinking  of 


64  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Dag 

another  audience  that  gathered  on  Temple  Square  a  hundred  years 
ago.  It  is  one  hundred  years  this  month  since  the  first  general  con- 
ference was  held  on  Temple  Square.  A  bowery  was  built  here  in 
1847.  A  special  conference  was  held  in  that  year,  in  August,  I  be- 
lieve, and  the  two  general  conferences  following  that  one,  one  on 
Christmas  day,  1847,  and  one  in  April  1848,  were  held  back  in 
Kanesville,  Iowa.  The  first  general  conference  of  the  Church  on 
this  square  was  one  hundred  years  ago  now,  and  what  has  hap- 
pened since  then,  here  and  elsewhere,  is  almost  beyond  belief. 

The  picture  of  those  people  comes  before  us — men  and  women 
who  faced  the  harsh  realities  of  physical  existence,  who  had  been, 
that  summer  and  that  spring,  through  the  ordeal  of  seeing  their  crops 
threatened  by  complete  destruction,  and  many  of  whom  had  wit- 
nessed the  deliverance  through  their  Father  in  heaven  by  the  epi- 
sode of  the  seagulls,  which  is  now  immortalized  in  stone  on  this 
block. 

With  what  little  they  had,  ragged,  I  am  sure,  many  of  them, 
and  worn  and  weary,  nevertheless  they  continued  to  consult  their 
convictions  rather  than  their  convenience,  and  the  fact  that  they  did 
so  accounts  for  what  we  have  here  today,  physically  and  tangibly, 
as  well  as  the  greater  spiritual  and  intangible  values  that  have  so 
blessed  our  lives  and  the  lives  of  our  children.  May  God  bless 
their  memories  and  help  us  to  be  worthy  of  the  heritage  they  gave  us. 

Fame  of  Temple  Square 

This  square  has  since  become  one  of  the  most  visited  and  most 
talked-of  ten  acres  in  the  world,  I  am  sure.  President  Smith  told 
you  yesterday  that  we  had  had  more  than  eight  hundred  forty  thou- 
sand visitors  up  to  this  time  this  year.  About  a  million  people  a 
year  are  coming  here  currently,  a  little  more  or  less.  There  are 
still  many  people  who  come  here  from  all  parts  of  the  country  who 
remember  and  who  speak  feelingly  of  their  visits  in  decades  gone 
by,  when  they  met  such  men  as  Joseph  Peery  who  so  greatly  in- 
fluenced what  went  on,  on  this  block,  for  so  many  years. 

But  we  are  facing  new  circumstances  so  far  as  the  operation 
of  this  square  is  concerned.  It  was  only  fifteen  years  ago,  in  1933, 
that  there  were  about  one  hundred  thousand  people  who  visited 
this  place,  and  I  rather  think  that  that  figure  might  have  included 
the  general  conference  visitors.  We  have  about  ten  times  that 
number  now,  excluding  general  conference  visitors.  It  was  only 
three  years  ago,  1945,  that  we  had  about  a  third  as  many  people 
come  here  as  we  have  now,  three  hundred  seventy-seven  thousand 
in  1945.  You  can  see  that  we  are  facing  new  problems  of  organ- 
ization and  administration,  and  if  the  activities  on  these  grounds 
continue  to  multiply  in  the  next  ten  or  fifteen  years  as  they  have  in 
the  past,  these  ten  acres  literally  will  not  accommodate  them. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS  65 


Temple  Square  Guides 


We  have  some  seventy-five  guides  functioning  now  on  these 
grounds,  faithful  men  and  women  who  take  time  from  their  busi- 
nesses and  their  professions  and  their  homes  at  a  moment's  notice 
to  come  here  and  render  such  service  as  is  needed.  We  have  about 
eight  lawyers,  three  or  four  doctors,  and  many  successful  business- 
men, who  leave  their  clients,  their  patients,  and  their  customers 
waiting  in  their  offices  while  they  come  here  to  conduct  strangers 
about  these  grounds.  There  are  many  times  when  we  have  five 
or  six  groups  moving  on  the  grounds  at  once,  and  if  one  building 
is  tied  up,  it  means  that  there  are  many  times  when  we  have  no 
place  to  take  these  people  who  come.  They  come  at  their  conven- 
ience, not  at  ours,  and  we  have  to  take  care  of  them  when  they 
come  or  not  see  them  at  all. 

These  grounds  are  open  about  fourteen  hours  a  day  at  the 
present  time,  and  they  are  open  almost  every  day  of  the  year,  seven 
days  a  week.  The  only  day  we  have  been  closed  in  my  experience 
here  is  Christmas  Day,  and  I  am  sure  we  could  have  conducted 
some  people  about  the  grounds  even  on  that  day.  This  is  our 
window  to  the  world,  and  I  want  to  express  my  appreciation  tb 
the  Presiding  Bishopric  for  their  most  helpful  and  sympathetic  co- 
operation in  maintaining  the  personnel  and  the  physical  appear- 
ance of  these  grounds,  and  to  the  First  Presidency,  President  Smith 
and  President  Clark,  and  President  McKay,  in  helping  us  to  get 
the  help  we  need  and  in  helping  us  with  many  of  our  problems  and 
in  acquiring  the  physical  facilities  we  need  here.  I  almost  believe 
at  times,  without  being  able  to  prove  it,  that  not  only  do  we  see 
more  people  here  than  anywhere  else  in  the  Church,  but  that  more 


to  my  attention  a  few  sentences  from  the  mind  and  heart  and  ex- 
perience of  Brother  Karl  G.  Maeser  who  had  such  an  influence  on 
this  Church  and  its  educational  policies  in  his  generation,  arid  bh 
the  lives  of  those  who  have  succeeded  his  generation,  '  '  r 

Here  is  one  which  we  may  all  have  heard  many  times  over  but 
repitition  of  which  is  well  worth  while:  ?  ; 

The  Lord  has  unconditionally  declared  the  triumph  of  his  Church, 
but  his  promises  to  me  are  all  conditional.  My  concern,  therefore  ,is 
about  myself.  *     :  tsci  ••  ■ 

I  have  no  fear,  and  I  know  you  haven't,  as  to  the  ultimate 
destiny  of  this  Church,  and  of  the  Lord's  work  in  the  earth.  But 
many  individuals  fall  by  the  wayside,  and  in  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants the  Lord  has  in  a  number  of  places  distinguished  between 
his  pleasure  with  the  Church  collectively  and  his  pleasure  with 
people  individually,  or  displeasure  as  it  may  be.   One  -such  utter- 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  2  Second  Day 

ance  is  in  the  first  section,  where  he  declares  that  he  is  pleased 
with  the  Church  speaking  collectively  but  not  individually.  Re- 
gardless of  the  great  strides  the  Church  has  made,  in  the  words  of 
Karl  G.  Maeser,  "my  concern  ...  is  about  myself"  and  my  own 
part  and  contribution  to  it.  I  commend  to  you  the  beautiful  and 
profound  thought  of  President  Ivins  yesterday:  "Serving  for  the 
sheer  joy  of  service,  without  thought  of  self." 
Another  sentence  from  Brother  Maeser: 

No  man  shall  be  more  exacting  of  me  or  of  my  conduct  than  I  am 
of  myself. 

And  another  one: 

I  would  rather  trust  my  child  to  a  serpent  than  to  a  teacher  who 
does  not  believe  in  God. 

Here  is  another: 

The  Lord  never  gets  in  debt  to  any  man. 

I  am  reminded  of  Bishop  Richards'  remarks  here  yesterday. 
And  here  is  another  sentence  from  Karl  G.  Maeser  that  is 
pertinent  to  our  present  problems: 

Youth  demands  recreation,  and  if  it  is  not  provided  in  high  places 
they  will  seek  it  in  low  places. 

Brother  Moyle  touched  on  that  yesterday:  Spending  time  with 
our  children  regardless  of  our  other  pressing  professional  and  busi- 
ness pursuits.  These  children  of  ours  are  going  to  grow  up.  What 
we  have  said  about  the  visitors  who  come  here,  that  they  come  at 
their  convenience  and  not  at  ours,  is  true  of  children.  They  grow 
up  at  their  convenience,  or  at  Nature's  convenience,  and  not  at 
ours,  and  we  had  better  touch  their  lives  while  they  are  with  us 
and  while  we  have  the  opportunity.  They  are  going  to  find  com- 
panionship somewhere,  and  if  it  isn't  our  companionship,  it  will  be 
the  companionship  of  someone  else.  If  it  isn't  our  influence,  it  will 
be  some  other  influence  that  shapes  and  molds  them,  because  they 
are  not  going  to  be  isolated  from  outside  influences,  and  we  shall 
have  no  cause  for  complaint  about  the  influences  that  do  mold  their 
lives  unless  we  do  our  best  to  see  that  ours  is  dominant  in  the  shap- 
ing and  moulding  of  their  characters. 

A  final  sentence  from  Brother  Maeser:  j  .  1 

If  you  want  excuses,  go  to  the  devil — he  can  give  you  any  number. 

We  can  go  to  the  devil  for  a  good  many  things,  and  sometimes, 
in  some  instances,  I'm  afraid  that  is  the  source  of  too  much  that  is 
plentiful  in  the  world.  The  law  of  supply  and  demand  does  not 
seem  to  work  as  well  as  it  should  in  this  instance. 

Repentance  and  Forgiveness 
I  am  grateful,  however,  as  Bishop  Isaacson  expressed  yester- 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 


67 


day,  that  this  is  a  Church  that  proclaims  the  principles  of  repentance 
and  forgiveness.  If  it  weren't  for  repentance  and  forgiveness,  life 
would  be  hopeless  for  most  of  us,  if  not  for  all  of  us. 

I  was  talking  a  day  or  two  ago  with  two  of  our  brethren  who 
are  attorneys,  and  we  were  speaking  of  some  of  our  penal  prac- 
tices and  problems,  about  life  imprisonment,  for  example.  A  man 
who  is  imprisoned  for  life,  and  who  knows  that  there  is  no  hope 
for  him,  hasn't  much  inducement,  perhaps,  to  be  on  his  good  be- 
havior. I  recall  a  scene  to  which  I  was  a  witness  not  long  ago, 
which  involved  a  small  boy  who  had  been  invited  to  stay  in  the 
house  for  the  rest  of  the  day  because  he  needed  some  disciplining. 
He  was  rather  obstreperous  during  the  day  and  said,  "Why  should 
I  be  good?  I  can't  go  out  anyway." 

Well,  he  had  to  be  reminded  that  there  was  another  day  com- 
ing. If  there  isn't  another  day  coming,  there  isn't  much  induce- 
ment, and  I  am  grateful  for  the  principle  of  repentance  and  for- 
giveness. There  is  another  day  coming  for  all  men,  with  some 
rare  exceptions,  on  terms  of  repentance  and  forgiveness,  and 
obedience.  "Go  thy  way,  and  sin  no  more."  There  are  two  parts 
to  that  equation  and  they  involve  both  forgiveness  and  sincere  re- 
pentance. 

I  am  grateful  for  my  fellowship  with  you,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  more  than  I  can  speak.  And  I  am  grateful  that  the  mysteries 
of  the  kingdom  have  never  troubled  me  much.  I  think  that  the 
simple  truths  of  the  gospel  are  so  plain  and  so  beautiful  that  I  don't 
worry  much  about  the  things  that  no  man  can  explain;  and  I  am 
sure  in  my  own  heart  that  if  we  will  just  live  as  well  as  we  know 
how  to  live,  we  will  be  all  right  here  and  hereafter.  It  won't  be 
the  things  that  we  don't  know  that  will  give  us  trouble.  It  will  be 
the  things  that  we  do  know  and  fail  to  abide  by. 

May  God  help  us  to  go  forth  and  live  our  lives  and  meet  our 
problems  and  counsel  our  families  and  render  service  in  his  Church 
and  be  accepted  into  the  kingdom  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  with  his 
approbation,  when  that  time  shall  come,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 

!;      Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Tu*etve  Apostles 

President  Smith,  President  Clark,  President  McKay,  and 
President  Richards,  and  brethren  and  sisters,  may  I  join  with  some 
of  the  other  speakers  who  have  preceded  me  in  expressing  sincere 
appreciation  for  my  membership  in  the  Church  and  for  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  as  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  our  day. 
I  am'  especially  thankful  for  the  gospel  because  of  the  many  oppor- 
tunities it  has  given  me  and  is  giving  me  to  work.  I  think  work 
is  one  of  the  greatest  blessings  a  kind  Heavenly  Father  can  bestow 
upon  his  children. 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  2  Second  Dag 

.  I  quote  the  following  lines  about  work,  signed  "Author  Un- 
known."   It  starts  out  by  asking  the  question,  "Who  am  I?" 

Who  Am  I? 

I  am  the  foundation  of  all  prosperity. 

I  am  that  from  which  all  blessings  flow. 

Everything  that  is  of  value  in  this  world  springs  from  me. 

I  am  the  salt  that  gives  life  its  savor. 

I  am  the  sole  support  of  the  poor. 

And  the  rich  who  think  they  can  do  without  me  live  futile  lives — fill 
premature  graves. 

I  have  made  America. 

I  have  built  her  matchless  industries,  laid  her  incomparable  rail- 
roads, created  her  citizens,  and  reared  her  skyscrapers. 

I  am  the  friend  of  every  worthy  youth.  If  he  makes  my  acquaintance 
when  he  is  young  and  keeps  me  by  his  side  throughout  his  life,  I  can 
do  more  for  him  than  the  richest  parent. 

I  keep  bodies  clean  and  fit,  minds  alert;  and  when  neglected,  both 

bodies  and  minds  grow  fat  and  sluggish. 

I  am  even  the  parent  of  genius  itself. 

I  am  represented  by  every  paper  that  flies  from  the  press,  in  every 
loaf  of  bread  that  springs  from  the  oven,  in  every  train  that  crosses 
the  continent,  and  in  every  ship  that  steams  the  ocean. 

Fools  hate  me;  wise  men  love  me. 

The  man  who  keeps  his  hand  in  mine  through  life  never  dies — be- 
cause that  which  he  has  created  with  my  help  lives  on  after  he  is  gone. 
"•  '      The  man  who  shirks  me  and  scorns  my  aid,  never  lives — Never  really 
lives,  even  though  he  may  continue  to  breathe. 
Who  am  I?   What  am  I? 
I  am  WORK! 

— Author  Unknown 

Opportunities  for  Church  Service 

I  am  especially  grateful  for  the  great  organization  of  our 
Church,  an  organization  that  gives  every  person,  who  desires,  an 
opportunity  for  work.  Even  the  members  are  supposed  to  be  mis- 
sionaries and  set  the  proper  example.  "A  clean  life  is  the  greatest 
sermon  in  the  world." 

I  am  indebted  for  the  following  figures,  showing  how  the  or- 
ganization works,  to  the  general  committee  on  statistics  of  the 
Church  of  whom  Dr.  Widtsoe  is  the  chairman. 

Speaking  first  of  the  ward  units: 

Offices  to  be  filled  from  ward  membership 

(average  ward  membership  665) 
Number  of  wards  and  dependent  branches  in  stakes 
'  Offices  by  stakes 

s:;  -  /  (average  stake  membership  5,300) 
^  Number;  of  stakes  • 

Estimated  offices  in  missions  including  missionaries 
*  General  Church  officers  400 
•i  ':■  C: ''•(including  general  boards  and  mission  presidencies) 

.^!^»Q»^9fe»Vl>!?-*iW  "  469,115 


257 

Total 

1,419 

364,683 

256 

172 

44,032 

60,000 

ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 


69 


There  is  no  other  organization  in  the  world  comparable  to  the 
organization  in  our  Church.  Then  think  of  the  priesthood  officers 
and  the  priesthood  members,  all  of  whom  have  special  assignments. 

Quorums  Membership 

High  Priests                                                       172  30.451 

Seventies                                                        332  20,675 

Elders                                                          1,001  95,204 


11,821 
20,011 

1,263 

31,832 

15,455 
15,422 

1,296 

30,877 

26,162 
15,478 

2,168 

41,640 

4,727 

104,349 
17,296 
121,645 
267,975 

1,505  146,330 

Priests 

(under  21) 

(over  21) 
Teachers 

(under  21) 

(over  21) 
Deacons 

(under  21) 

(over  21) 

Total  Aaronic  Priesthood  in  Stakes 
Aaronlc  Priesthood  in  missions 
Total  Aaronic  Priesthood 
Total  all  priesthood  membership* 

Calling  of  a  Ward  Teacher 

All  these  officers  and  teachers  have  an  opportunity  to  work. 
Some  may  think,  "Oh,  it  doesn't  matter  if  I  don't  keep  the  Word 
of  Wisdom  or  am  only  a  part  tithepayer.  I'm  only  a  deacon,  or 
I'm  only  an  elder,  or  a  counselor  in  an  organization;  if  I  were  a 
bishop  or  a  president  of  a  stake,  I'd  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 
I  wouldn't  break  the  Sabbath  day,  but  I'm  only  a  ward  teacher." 
Only  a  ward  teacher!  There  is  no  greater  calling,  brethren,  in  the 
Church,  than  that  of  a  ward  teacher.  If  the  ward  teachers  realized 
what  an  opportunity  that  is  and  if  they  were  doing  their  duty, 
we  wouldn't  have  the  condition  exist  that  Brother  Ivins  referred 
to  in  his  splendid  talk  yesterday.  The  bishop  would  know  through 
these  ward  teachers  if  any  of  the  children  in  his  ward  were  over 
nine  years  of  age  and  not  baptized,  or  needed  shoes  before  they 
could  enter  school.  He  would  know  if  the  ward  teachers  were 
doing  their  duty,  where  our  boys  are  who  are  in  the  service  at 
this  time,  and  when  they  changed  their  address.  They  could  al- 
ways get  such  information  from  the  mothers  in  the  homes  they  visit. 
It  doesn't  matter,  brethren  and  sisters,  so  much  what  the  position 
is.  It  is  how  we  fill  that  position.  We  are  given  a  job  to  do.  It 
may  be  the  only  position  that  we  have  to  show  our  Father  in 
heaven  that  we  can  make  good,  that  he  can  depend  upon  us. 

*In  this  computation,  the  approximately  ten  percent  of  transient  Church  mem- 
bers has  been  added  only  to  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  figures.  If  a  similar  ten 
percent  were  added  to  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  figures  the  Aaronic  Priesthood 
membership  would  total  133,810,  giving  a  total  priesthood  membership  of  280,140. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


Visit  to  Western  States  Mission 


I  am  very  grateful  for  the  opportunity  that  I  have  in  visiting 
the  stakes  and  the  missions.  I  wish  to  endorse  what  Brother  Clifford 
Young  said  yesterday  with  reference  to  our  mission  presidents 
and  missionaries— the  fine  work  they  are  doing.  Just  recently  Sister 
McKay  and  I  returned  from  a  very  strenuous  but  interesting  and 
beneficial  tour  of  the  Western  States  Mission  with  President  and 
Sister  Francis  A.  Child.  They  also  are  doing  a  wonderful  work. 
They  are  real  leaders,  fine  executives,  and  they  have  the  respect, 
confidence,  and  love  of  all  the  missionaries  as  well  as  of  the  mem- 
bers and  non-members. 

We  traveled  by  auto  nearly  five  thousand  miles,  averaged 
about  three  hundred  miles  a  day;  held  nineteen  district  conferences 
and  eleven  district  meetings  with  the  missionaries.  In  these  thirty 
meetings  we  contacted  and  heard  from  all  the  one  hundred  and 
•  fifty  missionaries.  They  are  doing  a  fine  work.  We  were  cer- 
tainly delighted  with  the  manner  in  which  President  Child  meets 
the  new  missionaries  as  they  come  into  the  field.  They  are  taken 
to  their  home  headquarters  and  made  to  feel  that  they  are. wel- 
come. President  and  Sister  Child  get  acquainted  with  these  new 
missionaries  by  holding  a  testimony  meeting  and  a  "search-for- 
talent"  meeting,  an  impromptu  meeting  where  these  new  missionaries 
are  given  an  opportunity  to  show  what  they  can  do;,  and  then 
they  are  given  their  instructions  and  their  assignments.  I  was 
especially  delighted  with  one  of  the  instructions. 


President  Child  is  an  optimist.  He  exemplifies  what  I  like  to 
call  the  "boost  spirit."  I  think  we  need  more  of  it  in  the  Church 
and  in  the  world,  more  "boost  spirit"  and  less  knock-knock;  more 
builders  and  fewer  wreckers,  more  lifters  and  fewer  leaners. 

"If  we  look  for  the  good  and  the  beautiful,  the  good  and  the 
beautiful  will  come  back  to  us."  A  prominent  writer  expresses 
this  truth  as  follows: 

The  universe  pays  every  man  in  his  own  coin:  if  you  smile,  it  smiles 
upon  you  in  return;  if  you  frown,  you  will  be  frowned  at;  if  you  sing, 
you  will  be  invited  into  gay  company;  if  you  think,  you  will  be  enter- 
tained by  thinkers;  and  if  you  love  the  world  and  earnestly  seek  for  the 
good  that  is  therein,  you  will  be  surrounded  by  loving  friends,  and  nature 
will  pour  into  your  lap  the  treasures  of  the  earth.  Censure,  criticize, 
and  hate,  and  you  will  be  censured,  criticized,  and  hated  by  your  fellow 
men.  Every  seed  brings  forth  after  its  kind.  Mistrust  begets  mistrust, 
and  confidence  begets  confidence;  kindness  begets  kindness,  and  love 
begets  love.  ("Compensation" — N.  W.  Zimmerman.)     ■       -  fl.v-:r  ,  ;r,vj 

How  much  happier  we  would  be  and  how  much  more  joy  there 


Here's  a  good  thing  to  remember  and  a  better  thing  to  do. 

Aways  join  the  construction  gang  and  never  the  wrecking  crew. 


The  Good  and  the  Beautiful 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 


71 


would  be  in  the  world 'if  we  looked  for  and  spoke  only  of  the 
good  and  the  beautiful;  if  we  looked  at  -the  beauty  of  the  hawthorn 
twig,  its  symmetry,  instead  of  pointing  out  to  everyone  the  dead 
leaf;  if  we  enjoyed  the  fragrance  and  the  beauty  of  the  rose,  instead 
of  frowning  and  calling  people's  attention  to  the  thorn  on  the 
stem;  if  we  enjoyed  to  the  fullest  the  Uplift  of  the  purity  of  the 
lily  instead  of  calling  attention  to  the  little  dirt  left  on  the  roots! 
I  like  this  story  of  the  old  frog: 

Once  on  the  edge  of  a  quiet  pool, 
Under  the  bank  where  'twas  nice  and  cool, 
Just  where  the  stream  flowed  out  of  the  bay, 
There  sat  a  grumpy  and  mean  old  frog,  ' 
Who  sat  all  day  in  the  sand  to  soak, 
r  And  just  did  nothing  but  croak  and  croak. 

A  blackbird  hollered,  "I  say,  you  know. 
What  is  the  matter  down  there  below? 
Are  you  in  trouble  or  pain  or  what?" 
The  old  frog  growled,  "Mine  is  an  awful  lot." 
"  'Tis  a  dirty  world,"  thus  the  old  frog  spoke — 
"Croakety,  croakety,  croakety,  croak." 
Then  the  blackbird  said.  "I  see  what's  wrong. 
Why  don't  you  smile  or  sing  a  song? 

  Look  up,  young  feller,  why  bless  my  soul, 

You're  looking  down  a  muskrat  hole!" 

A  wise  old  turtle,  who  boarded  near, 

Said  to  the  blackbird,  "Now,  friend,  see  here, 

Don't  waste  no  tears  on  him,"  says  he. 

"That  fool's  down  there,  cause  he  wants  to  be." 

Builders  and  Not  Wreckers 

In  the  future  when  any  of  us  have  the  urge  or  are  tempted 
to  repeat  gossip  or  speak  unkindly  or  perhaps  untruthfully  of  a 
neighbor  or  a  brother,  let  us  think  that  we  also  are  just  looking 
down  a  muskrat  hole  and  then  look  up  at  the  birds.  Imagine  we 
can  hear  the  beautiful  song  of  the  meadow  lark  or  the  robin  or  the 
red-winged  blackbird.  My,  how  I  used  to  thrill  to  listen  to  those 
red-winged  blackbirds  after  a  hard  and  dreary  old  winter,  singing 
that  early  spring  song!  How  much  I  am  indebted  to  the  Church, 
to  the  gospel  of  work  since  those  early  days!  I  trust,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us  that  we  may  be  boosters 
and  not  fault-finders,  builders  and  not  wreckers,  lifters  and  not 
leaners,  that  we  may  look  for  and  speak  of  only  the  good  and  the 
beautiful  and  above  all  that  we  may  do  our  work  so  well,  no 
matter  what  the  calling  is,  that  it  can  never  be  said  of  us  truth- 
fully or  written  after  our  names  that  we  were  called  and  found 
wanting,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


72  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  following  cablegram  came  this  morning,  signed  by  Harold 
Rex,  President  of  the  Brazilian  Mission: 

"Brazilian  missionaries  'and  Saints  send  greetings  to  Saints 
assembled  in  conference  and  wish  to  report  a  twenty  per  cent  in- 
crease in  membership  thus  far  this  year." 

Singing  by  the  congregation:  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  would  like  to  ask  each  of  you  to  offer  a  silent  prayer  on 
your  own  behalf  that  while  I  speak  you  may  enjoy  the  spirit  of 
the  Holy  Ghost  and  that  I,  too  may  enjoy  it,  that  we  may  thereby 
all  be  edified. 

Like  some  of  the  other  brethren,  I  have  just  returned  from 
visiting  one  of  the  missions,  the  Canadian  Mission.  President  Eyre, 
with  the  able  support  of  his  good  wife,  is  doing  a  good  work.' 
While  there,  I  was  impressed  as  I  think  one  might  be  who  was 
watching  a  great  experiment,  an  experiment  in  which  it  was  being 
determined  what  the  power  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  can  do 
to  the  changing  of  the  lives  of  men  and  women.  The  experiences 
of  that  visit  are  still  upon  my  mind. 

Early  Missionary  Efforts  In  Canada 

I  was  reminded  of  some  of  the  events  which  took  place  there 
during  the  early  rise  of  this  kingdom  in  these  latter-days.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  with  Sidney  Rigdon,  was  in  Brantford, 
Ontario,  in  1833.  They  went  there  following  receipt  of  the  reve- 
lation we  know  as  the  one  hundredth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  in  which  the  Lord  had  shown  unto  them  great  mercy 
and  consideration  in  advising  them  that  their  families  were  well. 
They  had  been  separated  from  their  families  for  some  time  and 
were  concerned  about  them. 

While  in  Canada,  they  experienced  the  fulfilment  of  the  prom- 
ise the  Lord  made  in  that  revelation,  that  an  effectual  door  would 
be  opened  for  them  in  the  land  roundabout.  At  Mount  Pleasant 
and  Brantford,  some  sixteen  or  eighteen  people  joined  the-  Church. 
The  promise  that  the  Holy  Ghost  would  bear  record  of  the  truth- 
fulness of  what  the  brethren  said  was  there  fulfilled.  Of  one 
meeting  the  Prophet  said: 

Elder  Rigdon  preached  to  a  large  congregation  .  .  .  and  I  bore  record 
while  the  Lord  gave  his  spirit  in  a  remarkable  manner. 

Toward  the  people  the  Prophet  evidenced  the  same  kind  feel- 
ings that  the  Lord  had  shown  to  him  and  Sidney  Rigdon.   Of  them 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


73 


he  makes  entries  in  his  journal,  such  as,  "The  people  were  very 
tender  and  inquiring."  And  again,  "O  God,  seal  our  testimony  to 
their  hearts." 

You  are  all  acquainted  with  the  fact  that  in  1836  Parley  P. 
Pratt  went  to  Canada  following  a  great  prophecy  uttered  by 
Heber  C.  Kimball,  in  which  Parley  P.  Pratt  was  instructed  to  go 
to  Toronto.  He  was  told  that  he  would  there  find  people  waiting 
for  him  who  would  receive  the  gospel,  and  that  from  there  the 
gospel  would  spread  into  England  where  a  great  work  would  be 
done.  You  know  how  he  found  President  John  Taylor,  the 
Fieldings,  and  others,  and  how  from  correspondence  that  went 
out  from  that  place  the  ground  was  laid  for  the  opening  of  the  great 
British  Mission. 

In  August  of  the  next  year,  1837,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
with  Sidney  Rigdon  and  Thomas  B.  Marsh,  then  president  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles,  visited  Toronto.  Riding  in  a  carriage  and 
holding  evening  meetings  by  candlelight,  they  visited  the  churches. 
Elder  Taylor  accompanied  them.  "This  was  as  great  a  treat  to 
me  as  I  ever  enjoyed,"  he  said.  "I  had  daily  opportunity  of  con- 
versing with  them,  of  listening  to  their  instructions,  and  in  partici- 
pating in  the  rich  stores  of  intelligence  that  flowed  continually 
from  the  Prophet  Joseph." 

Spirituality  Noted  In  Canadian  Mission 

As  we  traveled  through  the  mission,  it  seemed  to  me  that  the 
spirit  which  accompanied  these  early  brethren  in  their  missionary 
labors  was  still  to  be  found  among  the  people  in  that  goodly  land. 

We  could  feel  it  among  the  missionaries  as  we  shook  hands 
with  them  and  conversed  with  them  and  heard  them  make  their 
reports.  The  power  of  the  gospel  operating  upon  them  is  effect- 
ing a  marvelous  transformation  in  their  lives.  In  the  missionary 
meetings  they  bore  eloquent  testimony  of  the  truthfulness  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  of  its  restoration  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  Their  eyes  would  fill  with  tears  as  they  expressed 
their  appreciation  to  their  Heavenly  Father,  to  you  their  parents, 
and  to  others  of  their  loved  ones,  who  are  making  it  possible  for 
them  to  fulfil  their  missions. 

It  was  inspiring  to  see  these  young  missionaries — who  a  few 
months  ago  were  to  a  large  extent,  irresponsible,  carefree  boys 
and  girls — watching  the  doors  of  the  meetinghouses  as  the  time 
for  meeting  approached.  As  their  contacts  arrived,  they  gathered 
them  together,  shepherded  them  to  seats  near  the  front,  and  proudly 
and  tenderly  sat  down  in  the  midst  of  them. 

At  the  conferences  there  were  in  attendance  in  every  one  of 
the  general  meetings  from  seven  to  twenty  non-member  friends 
of  the  missionaries  who  were  interested  in  the  gospel.  Some 
of  them  came  as  far  as  three  hundred  miles  to  attend  the  meeting 
— of  course,  some  of  the  Saints  came- much  longer  distances — and 


■M  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Dag 

they  all  said  it  was  worth  it.  As  the  gospel  has  affected  the  lives 
of  the  missionaries  in  this  great  work,  so  has  it  affected  the  lives 
of  the  members  and  the  investigators.  When  they  truly  accept 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  they  have  a  completely  new  outlook 
on  life. 

After  the  meetings  they  are  loath  to  leave  the  premises.  They 
stand  around  for  a  long  time.  Of  course  that  is  characteristic  of 
all  Latter-day  Saint  gatherings.  Speaking  to  one  of  the  non- 
members  after  he  had  been  there  an  hour,  he  said  to  me:  "Well, 
since  the  meeting  I  have  shaken  hands  with  that  young  missionary 
over  there  four  times.  And,"  he  said,  "I  have  enjoyed  it  every 
time." 

May  I  say  again  that  the  effect  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
has  had  upon  these  missionaries  and  upon  these  members  and 
sincere  investigators  is  proof  positive  of  its  power  to  change  the 
interest  and  the  very  lives  of  men  and  women.  It  has  always 
been  that  way. 

Experience  of  Enos 

I  call  to  mind  the  experience  of  Enos,  a  grandson  of  Lehi, 
who  longed  in  his  heart  for  a  knowledge  of  the  truthfulness  of 
the  things  of  which  he  had  heard  his  father,  Jacob,  speak,  and 
so  while  he  was  hunting  beasts  in  the  forest,  he  kneeled  down  upon 
the  ground  and  called  upon  his  Father  in  heaven  in  mighty  prayer 
and  supplication.  And  as  he  was  praying,  he  heard  a  voice  say 
unto  him: 

.  .  .  Enos,  thy  sins  are  forgiven  thee,  and  thou  shalt  be  blessed. 
And  he  cried  out: 

Lord,  how  is  it  done? 

And  then  the  Lord  said: 

.  .  .  Because  of  thy  faith  in  Christ,  whom  thou  hast  never  before 
heard  nor  seen  .  .  .  wherefore,  go  to,  thy  faith  hath  made  thee  whole. 
(Enos  5,  7-8) 

Now  the  effect  upon  Enos  of  that  testimony  of  the  truth  and 
the  knowledge  of  the  gospel  which  he  had  is  shown  in  the  follow- 
ing paragraph  in  which  he  said: 

,'.  Now,  it  came  to  pass  that  when  I  heard  these  words  I  began  to  feel 

a  desire  for  the  welfare  of  my  brethren,  the  Nephites;  wherefore,  I  did 
pour  out  my  whole  soul  unto  God  for  them.  (Ibid.,  9.) 

And  not  only  did  his  heart  change  that  he  had  a  desire  for  the 
welfare  of  the  Nephites,  who  were  his  brethren,  but  he  had  a  similar 
desire  for  the  Lamanites,  who  were  his  enemies,  and  he  poured  out 
his  soul  unto  God  for  them. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY  75 

Gospel  Effects  Changes 

In  the  twenty-third  and  twenty-fourth  chapters  of  Alma  We 
have  a  dramatic  account  of  the  power  of  the  gospel  changing  almost 
a  whole  nation  from  a  bloodthirsty,  indolent,  warlike  people  into  in- 
dustrious, peace-loving  people.  Of  these  people  the  record  says 
that  thousands  were  brought  to  a  knowledge  of  the  Lord,  and  that 
as  many  as  were  brought  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth  never  did  fall 
away, 

For  they  became  a  righteous  people;  they  did  lay  down  the  weapons 
of  their  rebellion,  that  they  did  not  fight  against  God  any  more,  neither 
against  any  of  their  brethren.  (Alma  23:7.)  • 

And: 

...  there  was  not  one  soul  among  all  the  people  who  had  been  con- 
verted unto  the  Lord  that  would  take  up  arms  against  their  brethren; 
.  .  .  they  would  not  even  make  any  preparations  for  war.  {Ibid.,  24:6.)  -Z 

On  the  contrary,  they  gave  thanks  unto  God  that  he  had  given 
them  a  portion  of  his  spirit  to  soften  their  hearts. 

That  is  the  great  message  I  want  to  leave  here.  It  is  the  soften- 
ing of  the  hearts  that  this  gospel  does  to  the  people  who  receive  it. 

The  record  continues: 

.  .  .  and  this  they  did,  vouching  and  covenanting  with  God,  that 
rather  than  shed  the  blood  of  their  brethren  they  would  give  up  their  own 
lives;  and  rather  than  take  away  from  a  brother  they  would  give  unto 
him;  and  rather  than  spend  their  days  in  idleness  they  would  labor  abund- 
antly with  their  hands.  (Ibid..  24:18.) 

And: 

.  .  .  they  buried  the  weapons  of  war,  for  peace.  (Ibid.,  24:19) 

Now  this  remarkable  transformation  wrought  in  the  hearts  of 
these  thousands  of  people  was  done  in  a  very  short  period  of  time 
under  the  influence  and  power  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  It 
would  do  the  same  thing  today  for  all  the  peoples  of  the  earth  if 
they  would  but  receive  it,  for  in  very  deed  it  is,  as  Paul  said,  "the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation,"  (Romans  1:16)  not  only  spiritually, 
but  also  temporally  and  politically  and  in  every  other  way. 

It  is  a  marvelous  light  even  now  shining  in  the  darkness  in  this 
benighted  world,  but,  unfortunately,  as  John  said: 

...  the  light  shineth  in  the  darkness;  and  the  darkness  comprehendeth 
itnot.  (John  1:5.) 

Results  of  Rejection 

Time  and  time  again  during  the  history  of  man's  sojourn  upon 
this  earth,  the  Lord  has  sent  his  gospel,  this  marvelous  light,  into 
the  world  to  change  the  hearts  of  men  in  the  time  of  crisis,  that  they 
might  be  saved  from  destruction,  and  time  and  time  again  the  peo- 
ples of  this  earth  have  rejected  it. 


76  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

Just  as  acceptance  of  it  changes  the  hearts  of  men  and  women, 
bringing  righteousness,  love,  peace,  and  happiness,  so  the  rejection 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus,  Christ  brings  wickedness,  hate,  war,  and 
suffering.  History  clearly  establishes  the  fact  that  the  message  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  cannot  be  rejected  with  impunity. 

On  this  point  I  call  to  mind  and  ask  you  to  consider  with  me 
for  a  moment  the  experiences  of  the  Jews  in  the  meridian  of  time. 
The  Savior  presented  himself  and  taught  his  gospel  personally  to 
them,  but  they  rejected  it.  Near  the  close  of  his  ministry,  knowing 
that  they  had  rejected  both  him  and  the  gospel  which  he  taught 
them,  he  was  moved  with  profound  sorrow  and  broke  forth  in  that 
great  well-known  lamentation : 

O  Jerusalem,  Jerusalem,  thou  that  killest  the  prophets,  and  stonest 
them  which  are  sent  unto  thee,  how  often  would  I  have  gathered  thy 
children  together,  even  as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chickens  under  her  wings, 
and  ye  would  not! 

He  said,  as  a  result  of  this  rejection: 

Behold,  your  house  is  left  unto  you  desolate.  For  I  say  unto  you, 
Ye  shall  not  see  me  henceforth,  till  ye  shall  say,  Blessed  is  he  that 
cometh  in  the  name  of  the  Lord.  (Matt.  23:37-39.) 

Elder  James  E.  Talmage  says  he  probably  uttered  these  fateful 
words  as  he  stood  on  the  heights  of  the  temple  for  the  last  time 
overlooking  the  city  of  the  great  king.  This  thought  seemed  to  con- 
tinue with  him,  because  a  short  time  thereafter  as  he  was  leaving 
for  the  final  time  the  temple  environs,  the  Apostles  came  to  him  and 
pointed  out  to  him  the  beauty  of  the  temple  and  the  buildings  on  the 
temple  site.   His  only  answer  was : 

.  .  .  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  There  shall  not  be  left  here  one  stone 
upon  another  that  shall  not  be  thrown  down.  (Ibid.,  24:2.) 

He  returned  again  to  this  subject  on  his  way  to  Golgotha  when 
he  said  to  certain  women  who,  following  him,  bewailed  the  fate  to 
which  he  was  going : 

.  .  .  Daughters  of  Jerusalem,  weep  not  for  me,  but  weep  for  your- 
selves, and  for  your  children.  (Luke  23:28.) 

And  then  he  detailed  to  them  the  terrible  events  that  would 
accompany  the  destruction  of  Jerusalem,  which  he  saw  coming  as  a 
result  of  the  rejection  of  his  message  by  the  people  of  that  day.  He 
told  them  that  those  times  and  events  would  be  so  terrible  that  they 
would  call  upon  the  mountains  to  fall  upon  them  and  upon  the  hills 
to  cover  them. 

You  all  know  the  sequel,  how  the  Jews  carried  through  their 
awful  plot  and  crucified  the  Son  of  God,  and  how  thereafter  they 
continued  to  fight  against  his  gospel.  You  remember,  too,  the  price 
they  paid,  how  in  70  A.D.  the  city  fell  into  the  hands  of  the  Romans 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


77 


as  the  climax  of  a  siege  in  which  the  historian  Josephus  tells  us 
there  were  a  million  one  hundred  thousand  people  killed  and 

.  .  .  tens  of  thousands  were  taken  captive,  to  be  afterwards  sold 
into  slavery,  or  to  be  slain  by  wild  beasts,  or  in  gladiatorial  combat  for 
the  amusement  of  Roman  spectators. 

All  of  this  destruction  and  the  dispersion  of  the  Jews  would  have 
been  avoided  had  the  people  accepted  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
and  had  their  hearts  changed  by  it. 

Choice  Before  World  Today  • 

Today  the  peoples  of  the  earth  stand  at  the  crossing  of  the 
same  roads  as  did  the  Jews  in  the  days  of  Jesus.  The  same  choice 
is  before  them.  They  may  accept  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and 
move  on  to  righteousness,  peace,  love,  and  happiness,  or  they  may 
reject  it  and  suffer  wickedness,  hate,  war,  and  destruction. 

The  Lord  in  his  great  mercy  has  seen  the  events  of  our  time 
coming,  and  he  has  sounded  the  warning  and  offered  the  way  of 
escape.  Remember  that  in  the  first  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  he  said: 

...  I,  the  Lord,  knowing  the  calamity  which  should  come  upon  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth,  called  upon  my  servant  Joseph  Smith,  Jun.,  and 
spake  unto  him  from  heaven,  and  gave  him  commandments; 

Continuing  with  this  modern  revelation,  the  Lord  makes  refer- 
ences to  that  experience  of  Jerusalem,  of  which  I  have  told  you: 

Behold,  I  tell  you  these  things  even  as  I  also  told  the  people  of 
the  destruction  of  Jerusalem;  and  my  word  shall  be  verified  at  this  time 
as  it  hath  hitherto  been  verified.  (Ibid.,  5:19-20.) 

Now  my  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  in  conclusion  I  bear  wit- 
ness to  the  fact  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  restored  to  the 
earth  in  these  latter-days  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  is  in- 
tended to  be  and  it  is  the  key  to  the  solution  of  the  problems  which 
face  our  world  today,  both  people  individually  and  collectively.  May 
we  who  have  accepted  and  declared  our  allegiance  to  it  keep  it  brigh- 
ly  shining  in  our  own  lives  and  before  the  nations  of  the  world,  and 
may  others  of  our  Father's  children  in  sufficient  numbers  receive  it 
before  it  is  too  late,  that  the  world  may  be  saved  from  destruction, 
I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  humbly  pray  that  the  spirit  which 
thus  far  has  guided  this  conference,  of  which  we  have  all  partaken, 
may  continue  while  I  shall  speak  to  you. 

One  gets  so  much  in  one  of  these  general  conferences  not  only 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  2  Second  Dag 

from  the  direct  instructions  and  observations  which  come,  but  also 
from  the  thought  which  these  instructions  and  directions  invoke, 
that  it  is  a  little  difficult  sometimes  to  collect  one's  thoughts  along 
a  particular  line. 

The  Treasures  of  Life 

As  we  grow  and  enter  the  upper  brackets  of  years,  we  reflect 
a  great  deal  upon  the  things  which  are  of  lasting  importance  and 
we  come  clearly  to  see  that  many  of  the  things  which  we  thought 
were  of  value  in  our  earlier  lives  are  merely  the  dross  and  that  the 
gold,  the  treasures  of  life,  we  may  have  overlooked. 
3  1  I  am  grateful  that  while  I  still  live  and  have  opportunity  to 
Serve  that  I  have  come  more  or  less  to  appreciate,  I  try  fully  so  to 
do,  the  things  that  are  worth  while.  I  try  to  shear  away  the  un- 
important, and,  when  I  do  so,  I  find  that  worldly  things  have  pretty 
largely  disappeared,  that  the  objects  which  ordinarily  are  the 
matters  of  ambition  among  men  have  gone,  and  life  settles  down  to 
the  problem  of  the  future.  I  cease  to  look  at  time  and  get  over  as 
near  as  may  be  into  eternity.  I  am  grateful  for  the  knowledge 
which  the  Lord  has  enabled  me  to  get,  which  means  he  has  given 
to  me  of  the  things  of  the  spirit.  I  am  grateful  for  the  knowledge 
of  the  gospel,  imperfect  as  is  the  knowledge  which  I  have.  I  am 
grateful  for  my  testimony  which  strengthens  with  the  days  and 
the  years,  and  I  am  grateful  that  the  blessings  which  I  thus  recount 
to  myself  are  the  blessings  which  belong  and  are  enjoyed  by  all  of 
you.  I  come  to  see  that  the  things  which  men  give  in  the  way  of 
honor  and  respect  and  office  and  position  are  really  of  little  worth. 
They  are  not  worth  what  sometimes  we  feel  we  have  to  give  in 
order  to  obtain  them.  I  come  to  know  that  worldly  goods  are  of 
no  consequence  whatever,  save  I  have  enough  to  eat,  and  to 
drink  and  reasonably  to  wear,  and  that  to  attempt  to  leave  wealth 
to  my  children  will  not  only  be  a  futile  effort  but  that  it  may  prove  a 
curse. 

-I  do  not  mean  by  this  that  we  should  cease  to  exert  our  efforts 
to  become  influential  for  good  in  our  communities.  I  do  not  mean 
that  we  should  forget  that  we  are  living  here  and  have  our  lives 
to  live.  I  do  not  forget  that  a  reasonable  provision  for  those  who 
come  after  us  is  a  wise  thing.  I  am  only  saying  that  none  of  these 
things  is  worth  the  sacrifice  of  a  principle.  They  are  not  worth 
the  sacrifice  of  our  integrity,  of  our  honor,  of  our  righteous  living. 

World  In  a  Mess 

It  is  a  trite  thing  to  say  the  world  is  in  a  mess.  That  we  know, 
and  out  of  a  life  of  seventy-seven  years  I  can  say  that  so  far  as 
I  can  see,  it?has  never  been  in  the  mess  that  it  is  in  today.  There; 
have  never  before,  in  my  life,  been;  the  powers  of  evil  in:  such 
strength.   Satan  seems  to  have  taken  us  over  very  largely,  arid  we 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  79 

are  more  or  less  his  tools.  This  is  not  the  first  time  in  our  national 
history  that  we  have  been  in  trouble,  and  when  I  say  "we,"  I  mean 
the  people.  I  am  not  talking  of  administrations.  I  am  talking  of 
us,  we  the  people  of  the  United  States. 

Proclamation  of  Abraham  Lincoln  ■  ; 

I  have  always  been  impressed  with  a  great  proclamation  that 
was  issued  by  Abraham  Lincoln.  He  issued  it  in  one  of  the  darkest 
hours  of  the  Civil  War,  just  before  Vicksburg,  the  surrender  of 
which  opened  up  the  Mississippi  River,  and  just  before  Gettysburg, 
which  stopped  the  threatened  invasion  of  the  North.  The  Senate 
had  passed  a  resolution  calling  attention  to  the  needs  of  the  country 
and  asked  him  to  set  apart  a  day  for  national  prayer  and  humilia- 
tion. The  nation  was  considered  almost  bankrupt  from  debt.  The 
people  were  tax-ridden,  almost  beyond  endurance;  the  army  was 
unpaid,  some  of  it  for  a  period  of  six  months,  and  it  was  daily 
dwindling  by  desertion.  The  president  issued  a  proclamation,  and 
I  want  to  read  two  or  three  paragraphs  therefrom. 

"We,"  by  which  he  meant  the  people, 

.  .  .  have  been  the  recipients  of  the  choicest  bounties  of  heaven;  we 
have  been  preserved  these  saany  years  in  peace  and  prosperity;  we  have 
grown  in  number,  wealth,  and  power  as  no  other  nation  has  ever  grown. 
But  we  have  forgotten  God.  We  have  forgotten  the  gracious  hand 
which  preserved  us  in  peace  and  multiplied  and  enriched  and  strengthened 
us,  and  we  have  vainly  imagined,  in  the  deceitfulness  of  our  hearts,  that 
all  these  blessings  were  produced  by  some  superior  wisdom  and  virtue  — 
-  of  our  own.  Intoxicated  with  unbroken  success  we  have  become  too 
self-sufficient  to  feel  the  necessity  of  redeeming  and  preserving  grace, 
too  proud  to  pray  to  the  God  who  made  us. 

It  behooves  us,  then,  to  humble  ourselves  before  the  offended  power, 
to  confess  our  national  sins,  and  to  pray  for  clemency  and  forgiveness.: 
Now,  therefore  in  compliance  with  the  request  and  fully  concurring  in  the 
views  of  the  Senate,  I  do  by  this  my  proclamation  designate  and  set  apart 
Thursday  the  30th  day  of  April,  1863,  as  a  day  of  national  humiliation, 
to  abstain  on  that  day  from  their  ordinary  secular  pursuits,  and  to  unite 
in  their  several  places  of  public  worship  and  be  devoted  to  the  humble  dis- 
charge of  the  religious  duties  proper  to  that  solemn  occasion. 

All  this  being  done  in  sincerity  and  truth,  let  us  then  rest  humbly  in 
the  hope  authorized  by  the  divine  teachings  that  the  united  cry  of  the 
nation  will  be  heard  on  high  and  answered  with  blessings  no  less  than 
the  pardon  of  our  national  sins  and  the  restoration  of  our  now  divided 
and  suffering  country  to  its  former  happy  condition  of  unity  and 
peace. 

We  Have  Had  Prophets 

In  some  respects,  too  many,  we  stand  in  that  same  place  today. 

Some  time  ago  a  pamphlet  came  across  my  desk  which  un- 
fortunately I  threw  away.  On  the  outside  page  it  was  stated,  "We 
need  a  prophet,"  and  as  I  read  it  then,  and  as  I  think  of  it  now,  I 
think  how  blind  the  world  is.  We  have  had  a  prophet,  an  American 
prophet,  one  who  spoke  our  language,  one  who  was  imbued  with 


80  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  2  Second  Dag 

Christian  ideals,  and  that  prophet  gave  us  the  great  righteous  princi- 
ples of  which  we  know  and  of  which  the  world  partly  knows;  he 
gave  them  in  our  own  language  over  a  hundred  years  ago.  These 
may  all  be  read;  we  have  been  teaching  them  for  a  century.  The 
trouble  with  the  world  is  they  do  not  want  a  prophet  teaching 
righteousness.  They  want  a  prophet  that  will  tell  them  that  what 
they  are  doing  is  right,  no  matter  how  wrong  it  may  be. 

There  is  nothing  new  in  this.  Going  back  to  the  beginning, 
Noah  taught  the  people.  He  was  a  prophet,  and  he  told  them  what 
to  do.  He  finally  convinced  his  own  family,  and  they  were  saved. 
So  of  Moses — while  the  children  of  Israel  were  in  Egypt  and  he 
was  promising  them  deliverance,  they  followed  him,  they  did  what 
he  told  them,  but  once  out  of  Egypt  and  away  from  the  bondman's 
lash  they  forgot,  and  he  had  rebellion  after  rebellion  upon  his 
hands  from  then  until  he  died.  The  later  prophets  in  Israel — Elijah 
vindicated  by  a  miracle,  that  he  was  a  prophet  of  God;  yet  Jezebel 
hunted  him  like  a  wild  beast  and  would  have  killed  him  had  not 
the  Lord  taken  him  by  a  miracle;  and  Isaiah  and  Jeremiah,  these 
prophets  spoke  not  only  about  righteous  living  and  what  Israel 
should  do  in  their  family  life  and  in  their  religious  worship,  but 
those  prophets  spoke  also  of  the  relationship  of  nations  and  how 
Israel  should  bear  herself  toward  those  nations,  but  their  warnings 
and  prophecies  went  unheeded,  and  the  calamities  which  they  pre- 
dicted came. 

Now  our  Prophet,  Joseph  Smith,  and  the  prophets  since  his  time 
— and  there  has  always  been  a  prophet  in  this  Church,  and  prophets, 
and  you  sustain  the  brethren  here,  conference  after  conference,  as 
prophets,  seers,  and  revelators — the  Prophet  himself,  through  the 
Lord  by  revelation,  gave  certain  great  principles  that  would  save 
the  world  if  the  world  would  but  listen.  We  do  not  lack  a  prophet; 
what  we  lack  is  a  listening  ear  by  the  people  and  a  determination  to 
live  as  God  has  commanded.  That  is  all  we  need.  The  way  has 
been  made  perfectly  clear. 

Revelations  Given  to  Joseph  Smith 

In  the  earliest  days  of  the  Church  the  Prophet,  through  revela- 
tion, gave  a  plan — we  call  it  the  United  Order— which,  if  lived, 
would  have  preserved  individual  initiative,  what  we  have  come  to 
call  the  American  way  of  life,  and  at  the  same  time  have  cared  for 
all  who  needed  to  be  cared  for.  When  we  could  not  live  that, 
the  Lord  then  gave  us,  through  a  series  of  revelations,  step  by  step — 
for  he  always  leads  us  gradually,  we  cannot  always  be  led  clear 
through  to  the  end  all  at  once — he  gave  us  revelations  out  of  which 
we  have  developed  the  plan  for  caring  for  the  poor,  through  the 
giving  by  those  who  have  to  those  who  have  not.  We  now  know  it 
as  the  great  welfare  plan.  There  is  nothing  new  in  the  welfare 
plan  except  a  little  machinery  that  we  have  added  to  carry  it  out. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


81 


The  Lord  gave  us  a  great  dietary  law  more  than  one  hundred 
years  ago.  He  called  it  a  Word  of  Wisdom.  If  this  law  were  lived, 
it  would  regenerate  the  human  race,  so  far  as  their  physical  bodies 
are  concerned;  and  because  of  the  intimate  relationship  between 
our  physical  bodies  and  our  spiritual  welfare,  we  would,  if  we  had 
lived  it,  by  this  time  be  well  on  our  way  spiritually  toward  that 
peace  for  which  men  today  so  earnestly  and  devoutly  work  and 
pray. 

He  taught  us  also  the  relationship  between  father  and  son, 
child  and  parent,  a  great  principle,  one  of  the  saving  principles  of 
society,  given  first  on  Mount  Sinai  and  repeated  by  the  Savior  to 
the  questioning  Pharisees.  We  have  forgotten  that.  The  prophecy 
is  here.  There  is  no  difficulty  about  that.  It  is  our  ears  that  are 
at  fault. 

He  gave  us  the  true  principle  for  righteous  ruling  in  that  great 
revelation  which  tells  us 1  how  the  priesthood  should  rule,  as  al- 
ready referred  to  by  Brother  Romney,  I  believe,  who  quoted  some 
teachings  from  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

He  gave  us  a  great  law  of  war  telling  us  that  we  his  people, 
should  not  go  to  war  unless  commanded  by  him  and  then  telling 
what  those  who  were  attacked  should  do,  how  many  times  they 
should  forgive,  following  along  the  lines  of  those  quotations  made 
by  Brother  Romney. 

He  declared  also,  this  prophet  of  ours,  that  this' was  a  promised 
land  and  should  so  remain  so  long  as  we  worshiped  the  God  of  this 
land,  Jesus  Christ;  but  he  warned  us  that  when  and  if  we  became 
ripe  in  iniquity,  he  would  destroy  us,  just  as  he  had  destroyed  others 
before  us. 

The  Prophet  gave  a  great  revelation  involving  fundamental  prin- 
ciples of  government,  the  relationship  between  the  civil  officers  and 
the  people,  the  relationship  between  the  people  and  the  laws  com- 
manded obedience  to  righteous  laws — all  sufficient  in  general  prin- 
ciples to  take  us  out  of  our  present  morass  of  pride,  lawlessness,  and 
crime. 

He  told  us  that  the  Constitution,  under  which  we  live,  was  an 
inspired  document,  that  its  principles  were  elemental  to  free  human 
government  and  declared  we  should  adhere  to  the  Constitution  and 
to  the  principles  thereof.  In  that  Constitution  is  the  great  Bill  of 
Rights,  guaranteeing  to  us  freedom  of  the  press,  freedom  of  speech, 
freedom  of  conscience,  freedom  to  assemble,  and  so  on, 

America  Needs  a  Listening  Ear 

All  this  is  in  our  gospl.  It  is  all  part  of  the  work  of  our  great 
prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  those  who  have  followed  him.  It  is  in 
the  books  and  has  been  in  print  for  a  century.  The  American 
Prophet  has  spoken;  American  prophets  are  speaking.  The  great 
principles  I  have  named,  and  almost  countless  others,  have  been 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE  \c 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

proclaimed  for  a  hundred  years.  No,  America  does  not  need  a 
prophet;  America  needs  a  listening  ear.  And  more  than  all,  we 
who  are  here,  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  we  need  a  listening  ear. 

May  God  give  us  that  ear.  May  he  give  us  a  disposition  to 
read  what  he  has  told  us.  May  he  give  us  a  spirit,  his  spirit,  to  take 
into  our  souls  the  principles  of  the  gospel  which  he  has  given  to  us. 
May  he  give  us  the  will  and  power  to  live  them,  having  taken  them 
into  our  souls;  and  the  blessings  and  the  joy  and  the  happiness  of 
life  that  will  come  to  us  if  we  so  live  are  beyond  any  powers  of  ex- 
pression or  suggestion  that  I  possess. 

May  God  give  us,  again  I  say,  a  listening  ear  to  all  that  he  has 
told  us,  in  order  that  we  may  live  as  he  would  have  us  live  and  give 
us  the  spirit  to  which  I  have  referred,  and  the  power  to  live  as  he 
would  have  us  live,  and  to  us  men  the  will  and  power  to  honor  our 
priesthood,  and  give  to  all  of  us  every  blessing  that  would  be  for 
our  good,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  OCTAVE  W.  URSENBACH 

Former  President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

With  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  in  the  great  bless- 
ing that  is  ours,  collectively,  for  being  in  attendance  at  this  confer- 
ence. We  have  been  fed  the  bread  of  life.  We  have  drunk  of  that 
cup  of  living  water  which  will  give  us  an  everlasting  blessing.  I  hope 
our  souls  have  been  fired  with  a  determination  to  serve  the  Lord  and 
to  keep  his  commandments. 

I  should  like  at  this  time  to  express  my  gratitude  to  my  Father 
in  heaven  and  to  his  servant*  who  preside  over  this  Church  for  the 
opportunity  of  serving  in  the  Canadian  Mission  for  almost  four  years. 
You  may  well  imagine  how  closely  I  followed  the  report  of  Elder 
Romney  as  he  recounted  his  experiences  in  that  mission  recently.  It 
was  the  first  foreign  mission  of  the  Church.  Work  commenced  there 
in  the  year  1832.  Canada  is  a  great  country,  great  in  possibilities 
but  not  great  in  population.  Its  population  of  about  twelve  million 
people  is  represented  in  all  the  churches  that  are  dominant.  The 
largest  church  in  Canada  is  the  Catholic  Church  which  comprises 
about  forty-three  percent  of  the  population  of  the  country.  The 
United  Church  of  Canada  is  the  second  largest.  Of  the  people  more 
than  ninety-eight  percent  of  the  total  population  claim  allegiance  to 
some  Christian  denomination,  according  to  the  records  of  the  Domin- 
ion Bureau  of  Statistics.  Canada  was  settled  by  English,  Irish, 
Scotch  and  French  peoples  and  there  are  among  them  many  honest 
souls,  and  from  that  country  have  come  faithful  members  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  My  labor  among  those  people  was  most 
satisfying.  I  congratulate  the  membership  of  this  Church  in  giving 
of  its  strength  in  young  men  and  young  women  who  have  faith  and 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY  83 


fortitude  and  fidelity  to  serve  the  Lord_  in  the  proclamation  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  I  have  seen  in  their  labors  the  exemplification 
of  the  admonition  the  Lord  gave  to  his  servants  when  he  said,  "There- 
fore, o  ye  that  embark  in  the  service  of  God  see  that  ye  serve 
him  with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and  strength,  that  ye  may  stand 
blameless  before  God  at  the  last  day. ...  And  faith,  hope,  charity  and 
love  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  god  qualify  you  for  the  work." 
That  is  being  exemplified  in  the  lives  of  the  young  men  and  young 
women  who  are  serving  in  the  Canadian  Mission  and  I  am  sure  in 
Other  missions.  I  wish  to  express  my  gratitude  to  my  companion 
who  stood  side  by  side  with  me  hardly  missing  any  appointment  in 
her  endeavor  to  sustain  the  women  of  that  mission.  Also  for  the 
fidelity  of  my  family,  some  of  whom  were  with  me  and  others  who 
were  not.  I  shall  never  be  able  to  express  my  gratitude  for  that 
experience.  I  pray  that  the  labor  performed  may  have  been  pleas- 
ing to  our  Father  in  heaven  and  that  many  souls  have  been  touched 
by  the  testimonies  we  have  borne  from  time  to  time.  I  thank  the 
Lord  that  he  has  given  me  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  and  that  he  lives  today,  that  he  is  watching  over  his 
people,  that  he  will  bless  and  sustain  us  as  we  serve  him  in  righteous- 
ness, which  may  we  do  I  pray  humbly,  in  his  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

After  congregational  singing,  "High  On  The  Mountain  Top," 
and  the  benediction  by  President  William  N.  Brotherson  of  the 
Moon  Lake  Stake,  this  Conference  will  be  adjourned  until  2:00 
o'clock  this  afternoon. 

The  proceedings  of  the  afternoon  session  will  be  broadcast  over 
KSL  and  other  stations  named  at  the  opening  of  this  session.  The 
singing  of  this  session  of  the  Conference  has  been  T3y  the  congrega- 
tion, Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting,  Elder  Roy  M.  Darley, 
Organist.  The  congregation  will  now  join  in  singing  "High  On  the 
Mountain  Top." 

The  Congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn:  "High  On  the 
Mountain  Top." 

President  William  N.  Brotherson,  of  the  Moon  Lake  Stake, 
offered  the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


84  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  .  Second  Dag 

SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  fourth  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  Saturday  after- 
noon, October  2,  at  2:00. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  presided  and  conducted  the  serv- 
ices. 

The  Choir  singing  for  this  session  of  the  Conference  was  by 
members  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

This  is  the  fourth  session  of  the  119th  Semi- Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  afternoon,  all  of  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church,  except  Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  who 
is  convalescing  at  home  under  his  doctor's  directions;  Elder  Alma 
Sonne,  who  is  presiding  over  the  European  Mission;  and  President  S. 
Dilworth  Young,  who  is  presiding  over  the  new  England  Mission. 

The  proceedings  of  this  Conference  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL 
at  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the  fol- 
lowing stations:  KDSH  at  Boise,  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KID  at  Idaho 
Falls,  KEYY  at  Pocatello,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at  Vernal, 
and  over  KTYL  at  Mesa  by  transcription. 

Any  important  messages  and  calls  that  come  to  us  for  persons 
supposed  to  be  in  attendance  at  the  Conference  will  be  announced 
at  the  dismissal  of  this  meeting  over  the  loud  speaking  system  on  the 
grounds.  Everyone  would  do  well  to  listen  carefully  to  such  an- 
nouncements. 

The  choir  singing  for  this  session  will  be  furnished  by  members 
of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting  and 
Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  the  services  by  the  choir  singing  "Holy  Spirit, 
Truth  Divine." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  J.  Cleve  Hansen 
of  the  Lost  River  Stake,  Moore,  Idaho. 

The  Choir  sang  as  an  opening  number:  "Holy  Spirit,  Truth  Di- 
vine." 

President  J.  Cleve  Hansen  of  the  Lost  River  Stake  offered  the 
invocation. 

The  Choir  sang:  "The  Crusader's  Hymn." 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 


85 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 

O/  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Constancy  is  a  virtue  of  such  high  degree  that  James,  in  his 
epistle  to  the  tribes  of  Israel,  declared  it  to  be  one  of  the  distingishing 
characteristics  of  Deity.   He  wrote. 

Every  good  gift  and  every  perfect  gift  .  .  .  cometh  down  from  the 
Father  of  lights,  with  whom  is  no  variableness,  neither  shadow  of  turn- 
ing. (James  1:17.) 

In  like  vein,  Paul  writing  to  the  Hebrews,  says  of  the  Lord: 

Jesus  Christ  the  same  yesterday,  and  to  day,  and  for  ever.  (Hebrews 
13:8.) 

God  Unchangeable 

In  the  very  nature  of  things,  the  Almighty  must  possess  this 
steadfastness.  To  be  worshiped  he  must  command  the  implicit 
confidence  of  the  worshiper.  Unless  there  is  an  abiding  faith  in 
the  integrity  of  Deity,  there  could  be  no  trust.  But  there  could  be 
neither  faith  nor  trust  if  he  were  inconstant,  changeable,  capricious, 
or  unstable.  One  must  know  that  he  is  to  be  counted  on.  His 
promises  must  be  infallibly  sure  of  performance,  and  the  same  ap- 
probation or  condemnation  must  flow  unerringly  from  the  same 
acts  regardless  of  by  whom,  or  where,  or  in  what  age  of  the  world 
committed,  with  due  allowance  for  the  knowledge  and  enlighten- 
ment available  to  the  actors.  The  ultimate  law  by  which  man's 
conduct  is  to  be  judged  must  be  the  same  law  tomorrow  as  today 
and  so  on  down  through  all  the  tomorrows.  Such  is  our  concept  of  the 
immutability  of  the  course  of  God.  There  is  something  immensely 
solid  about  that  concept.  It  speaks  of  perpetuity  and  gives  a  sense 
of  something  enduring  to  stand  on. 

The  Soundness  of  Principles 

But  it  is  not  a  popular  idea  in  this  day  when  principles  and 
practices  and  institutions  and  beliefs,  grown  venerable  with  age, 
are  cast  aside  with  contemptuous  abandon,  often  for  no  other  reason 
than  that  they  are  old.  We  have  even  invented  some  names  for 
those  who  refuse  to  throw  overboard  the  principles  by  which  they 
have  lived  and  flourished.  In  the  language  of  the  day,  no  doubt, 
James  and  Paul  would  be  called  reactionaries,  anti-liberals,  non- 
progressives.  It  would  be  easily  demonstrable  that  most  of  the 
supposedly  new  and  progressive  offerings  of  the  hour  are  in  fact 
age-old  and  have  been  tried  and  found  delusive  and  been  thrown 
into  the  discard  in  the  far-distant  past.  Their  advocates  so  far  from 
pointing  the  way  to  progress,  are  the  real  reactionaries,  leading 
back  to  discredited  failures  of  long  ago.  I  have  a  notion  that  the 
reactionary  or  progressive  quality  of  a  doctrine  should  be  deter- 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

mined  by  the  soundness  or  lack  of  soundness  of  the  principles  it 
embodies  and  not  by  its  age.  Take  for  instance  theTen  Command- 
ments. 

The  Ten  Commandments 

 They  are  fairly  old.    But  which  one  of  them  would  you 

eliminate?  In  what  degree  have  the  principles  they  lay  down  found 
their  place  in  the  laws  enacted  by  the  legislative  bodies  of  modern 
nations?  Would  any  one  in  all  the  world  be  the  worse  off  for  ob- 
serving them?  Can  they  be  violated  without  injurious  consequences 
to  the  violator?  These  are  fair  tests  of  their  eternal  nature.  It  is 
safe  to  say  that  the  observance  of  them  never  brought  to  the  indi- 
vidual remorse,  nor  caused  injury  or  suffering  to  another.  On  the 
contrary,  remorse,  self-accusation,  sorrow,  and  injury  to  others  are 
the  inescapable  consequences  of  the  violation  of  most  of  them. 

"Thou  shalt  not  bear  false  witness  against  thy  neighbor"  (Exo- 
dus 20:16)  is  particularly  to  be  commended  to  our  attention  in  these 
electioneering  times.  If  all  the  falsity  and  calculated  deception 
were  squeezed  out  of  many  of  the  speeches  we  listen  to,  they  could 
be  reduced  to  about  one  minute's  duration  instead  of  thirty. 

"Thou  shalt  not  covet  .  .  .  any  thing  that  is  thy  neighbour's." 
(Exodus  20:17.)  The  observance  of  this  law  would  rid  the  world 
of  most  of  its  strife.  Out  of  a  fairly  long  experience  in  dealing 
with  the  disputations  of  men,  and  the  causes,  I  am  persuaded  that 
most  of  them  arise  out  of  a  covetous  desire  to  obtain  some  material 
thing  or  to  reap  some  advantage  to  which  the  contender  is  not 
entitled.  If  everybody  wanted  to  do  what  he  knew  was  right — 
deal  justly,  man  to  man,  and  would  be  content  to  have  what  he 
justly  could  claim — there  wouldn't  be  much  litigation  or  strife.  If 
applied  to  the  conduct  of  nations,  there  would  be  no  war.  War 
results  when  one  nation  covets  what  another  nation  has  or  seeks 
dominion  over  it.  The  victim  does  not  want  to  give  Up  either  its 
possession  or  its  independence.  The  designing  one  says,  "I  am 
bigger  than  you,"  or  "I  have  a  bigger  or  better  equipped  army  so 
I  shall  take  what  I  want  by  force."  The  other  resists,  and  we  have 
war. 

The  tenth  commandment  has  to  be  obeyed  before  war  and 
contention  can  cease.  It  states  a  universal  principle,  true  for  all 
time;  hence,  it  is  subject  neither  to  change  nor  compromise.  The 
same  may  be  said  of  all  the  commandments  of  God.  I  can  think 
of  none,  the  keeping  of  which  is  harmful  to  the  observer  or  any 
one  else.  On  the  contrary,  it  brings  inward  peace.  Great  stability 
results  to  individuals  and  nations  from  steadfast  adherence.  I 

The  Quality  of  Stability 

John  Ruskin,  in  that  unique  book,  the  Seven  Lamps  of  Architec- 
ture, speaks  of  stability  as  an  essential  quality  of  the  very  buildings 
which  we  rear  and  which  are  the  expression  of  our  culture: 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 


87 


The  greatest  glory  of  a  building  is  not  in  its  stones,  or  in  its  gold.  :.: 
Its  glory  is  in  its  Age,  and  in  that  deep  sense  of  voicefulness  ...  it  is 
;  in  that  golden  stain  of  time,  that  we  are  to  look  for  the  real  light,  and 
color,  and  preciousness  of  architecture;  and  it  is  not  until  a  building  has 
assumed  this  character,  till  it  has  been  entrusted  with  the  frame,  and 
hallowed  by  the  deeds  of  men,  till  its  walls  have  been  witnesses  of  suffer- 
ing, and  its  pillars  rise  out  of  the  shadows  of  death,  that  its  existence, 
more  lasting  as  it  is  than  that  of  the  natural  objects  of  the  world  around 
it,  can  be  gifted  with  even  so  much  as  these  possess  of  language  and  of 
:  life. 

Today,  however,  men  are  not  building  for  durability  either  in 
their  structures,  their  lives,  their  religious  faiths,  or  their  institutions. 
The  result  is  a  troubled  world.  Everywhere  is  anxiety  and  the 
dread  arising  from  uncertainty  which  halts  or  stays  all  the  normal 
processes  of  life.  It  all  arises  out  of  one  cause — lack  of  fidelity  to 
right  principles — principles  which  are  known  and  are  not  myster- 
iously hidden.  Men  have  failed  in  allegiance  to  their  religious 
principles  and  nations  have  not  been  true  to  their  political  principles. 
The  two  infidelities  go  together.  When  there  is  a  breakdown  of 
religious  constancy,  there  inescapably  follows  deterioration  in  the 
political  morality.  Both  have  the  same  root  cause,  namely,  the 
breaking  away  from  or  the  compromising  of  sound  principles.  It 
amounts  to  a  running  away  from  reality  and  giving  way  to  the  urge 
for  avoiding  the  hard  and  rigorous  disciplines  incident  to  meeting 
the  issues  of  life,  trying  to  reach  goals  without  traveling  the  thorny 
road  that  leads  to  them.  We  want  to  avoid  all  the  disagreeable 
things.  We  are  trying  to  live  under  a  pleasure  economy  in  a  pleasure 
world.  So  we  live,  really,  in  nothing:  for  no  God,  for  no  piety  to- 
wards the  past,  for  no  pride  of  race  or  personality.  Once  we  lived  for 
freedom,  pledging  "our  lives,  our  fortunes  and  our  sacred  honor." 
The  very  expression  implies  sacrifice  and  suffering,  discipline  of 
the  soul  to  meet  reality.  Now  we  want  to  be  spared  suffering  of 
any  kind — physical,  emotional,  or  mental.  We  seek  security,  a  six- 
hour  day,  a  car,  and  a  pension.  But  all  the  time  life  eludes  us,  peace 
of  mind  eludes  us,  and  we  have  dissatisfaction,  turmoil,  uncertainty, 
and  dread. 

Continuity  Needed  in  Changes 

True,  human  institutions,  bearing  in  themselves  the  imperfec- 
tions incident  to  the  limited  wisdom  and  capacities  of  those  who 
fashion  and  operate  them,  fall  short  of  the  permanence  character- 
istic of  things  divine  and  may  be  subject  to  change  with  the  progress 
of  unfolding  wisdom  and  experience.  But  change  should  be  to- 
ward the  ideal  and  should  not  run  ahead  of  readiness  to  receive 
and  assimilate  it  without  violent  disruptions  lest  mischief  instead 
of  betterment  result.  Change  so  brought  about  will  be  accomplished 
without  destroying  continuity,  a  factor  vital  to  orderly  progress.  VG 

Let  me  point  this  up  with  an  illustration.  When  the  American 
colonies  revolted  against  the  mother  country,  it  was  not  out  of  a 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  2  Second  Day 

purpose  to  discard  the  principles  by  which  they  had  lived.  As 
Englishmen  they  merely  claimed  the  recognized  rights  of  English- 
men, which  rights,  they  contended,  they,  as  residents  of  the  colonies, 
were  being  denied.  If  Britain  had  acceded  to  their  requests,  they 
would  have  been  content  to  remain  as  subjects  of  the  kingdom  and 
there  would  have  been  no  revolution.  Britain  did  not  yield  to  their 
demands.  So  they  declared  a  political  separation  and  fought  a  war 
to  make  their  declaration  good.  Having  achieved  that,  they  had 
to  set  up  a  new  framework  of  government  to  carry  on.  But  they 
did  not  throw  their  old  principles  into  the  scrap  heap.  They  per- 
petuated them  under  their  new  government.  The  principle  they 
had  contended  for  was  freedom — -the  rights  of  free  men.  That  con- 
tinued to  be  the  purpose  of  their  new  government  and  was  the  core 
of  continuity  binding  the  old  to  the  new.  They  were  still,  as  their 
English  forebears  had  been,  a  God-fearing  Christian  nation  stand- 
ing on  their  right  to  be  free.  The  government  they  fashioned  was 
concerned  primarily  with  making  that  ancient  right  secure.  They 
tried  by  every  art  and  device  they  knew  to  provide  against  another 
infringement  of  it.  It  took  a  little  floundering,  a  period  of  travail, 
before  they  got  their  government  going;  but  when  they  did,  it  con- 
stituted no  rupture  with  the  past,  and  that  continuity  imparted  a 
wonderful  stability  to  the  new  nation;  it  began  life  free  of  blood 
purges,  reprisals  and  excesses.  For  one  hundred  sixty  years  now 
it  has  run  its  unbroken  course.  So  begun  and  so  perpetuated,  the 
United  States  of  America  has  achieved  unparalleled  transcendence 
among  the  nations.  It  stands  today  the  last  hope  of  free  men,  the 
one  steadying  support  to  this  reeling  world. 

Fury  of  French  Revolution 

Contrast  that  with  the  story  of  the  French  Revolution  which 
came  along  shortly  after.  This  was  inaugurated  by  a  wild  fury 
of  murder,  rapine,  and  blind  vengeance,  with  monsters  contending 
for  supremacy  and  the  victor  sending  the  vanquished  to  the  guillo- 
tine. Excesses  spiraled,  with  frenzied  zealots  pushing  ever  to  fur- 
ther extremes.  At  the  bottom  was  the  utter  abandonment  of  princi- 
ples. It  was  sought  to  wipe  out  the  past.  God  was  dethroned  and 
mocked  in  derision;  reason  deified  and  a  new  cult  proclaimed.  With 
the  thread  of  continuity  completely  severed,  there  could  be  no  settl- 
ing down  to  a  stabilized  order,  and  terror  reigned  until  Napoleon 
trained  on  them  his  guns  and  established  his  personal  rule.  Since 
then,  governments  have  risen  and  fallen  in  France,  republic  passing 
into  totalitarian  empire,  and  empire  back  into  republic,  and  republic 
into  republic  with  the  very  existence  of  the  present  one  hanging  in 
the  balance.  The  attendant  uncertainty  and  confusion  and  lack 
of  steadfastness  is  its  plague. 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BO  WEN 


89 


Socialistic  Experimentation 

And  yet  with  this  and  multitudinous  other  examples  of  history 
before  us,  we  have  today  in  this  land  those  who  would  destroy  our 
solid  foundations  by  importing  here  from  the  Old  World  what  our 
forebears  ran  away  from  to  come  and  plant  deep  in  the  virgin  soil 
of  this  new  land  the  roots  of  the  tree  of  liberty.  The  news  is  leaking 
out  that  there  is  now  forming,  to  be  publicly  launched  as  soon  as 
the  elections  are  over,  a  new  party,  spearheaded  by  men  who, 
having  enjoyed  a  brief  hour  of  power,  but  no,w  out  of  favor  in  the 
party  that  elevated  them,  are  loath  to  see  authority  slipping  out  of 
their  hands.  Their  purpose  is  to  bring  to  pass  here  the  socialistic 
experimentation  that  is  destroying  the  strength  of  England  and 
shaking  that  nation  to  its  foundation.  That  experiment  has  been 
aptly  described  as  "the  half-way  house  on  the  road  to  totalitarian- 
ism." 

The  land  is  also  fecund  of  pseudo  religious  cults  spawning  like 
pestilence.  We  have  already  lost  some  of  our  own  stability  and 
shall  not  recover  it  if  the  people  surrender  to  the  seductive  lure 
of  specious  phantasmas,  religious  or  political,  forswearing  the  solid 
principles  on  which  we  are  foundationed  and  on  which  the  Church 
and  the  nation  have  grown  to  greatness  and  power. 

Unrest  and  Turmoil  Abroad 

Look  out  over  the  world  today  and  you  see  seething  unrest, 
turmoil,  confusion,  dread,  suspicion,  envy,  distrust,  and  preparation 
for  devastating  war.    What  has  happened? 

Britain  and  France  went  to  war  to  guarantee  the  territorial 
integrity  of  Poland.  We  made  that  cause  our  cause.  The  princi- 
ple was  that  no  nation  should  be  suffered  to  be  trampled  underfoot 
by  a  ruthless  invader  of  its  land.  The  enemy  was  subdued,  but 
the  principle  of  protection  of  a  people  against  the  incursions 
and  oppression  of  a  foreign  tyrant,  for  which  the  war  was  ostensibly 
fought,  was  relinquished  and  a  large  part  of  the  territory  of  Poland 
was  suffered  to  be  seized  and  its  entire  people  brought  under  the 
dominion  of  a  despot  quite  as  ruthless  and  cruel  as  the  first  invader. 
The  invasion  of  Finland  was  denounced  as  an  act  of  wanton  bru- 
tality and  the  perpetrator  of  the  invasion  as  a  despot  as  tyrannical 
as  any  in  the  world.  Then  by  a  turn  of  the  wheel  of  fortune  that 
despot  got  over  on  to  our  side,  or  more  properly  speaking,  we  got 
on  to  his  and  winked  our  eyes  at  his  dismemberment  of  that  unhappy 
land  and  his  impositions  upon  its  people  of  unconscionable  indem- 
nities. 

Without  so  much  as  consulting  our  ancient  friend,  China,  we 
gave  consent  to  the  seizure  of  a  vast  chunk  of  its  territory  and  the 
control  over  its  vital  communications. 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

One  Truth  and  One  Morality 

The  world  is  reaping  the  fruit  of  this  abandonment  of  principles. 
There  is  only  one  truth  and  one  morality.  When  discovered,  it 
matters  not  whether  they  find  application  to  religious  observances 
or  to  political  systems.  They  bear  the  hallmark  of  eternity  and 
may  not  with  impunity  be  abandoned  or  compromised. 

Stability  will  come  when  men  once  more  live  by  the  promises 
they  make  and  in  their  public  morality  as  in  their  private  conduct, 
in  their  religious  as  in  their  political  life,  they  develop  integrity  of 
purpose  and  steadfastness  to  principle  and  adherence  to  known 
laws  foundationed  in  the  wisdom  of  the  eternal. 

As  we  struggle  forward  toward  that  goal,  let  us  hold  stead- 
fastly before  our  eyes  the  shining  beacon  of  Christ's  perfect  order 
as  stated  for  us  by  Alma: 

...  he  cannot  walk  in  crooked  paths;  neither  doth  he  vary  from  that 
which  he  hath  said;  neither  hath  he  a  shadow  of  turning  from  the  right 
to  the  left,  or  from  that  which  is  right  to  that  which  is  wrong;  therefore, 
his  course  is  one  eternal  round.  (Alma  7:20.) 

May  God  grant  us  the  wisdom  and  the  strength  to  achieve 
this  stability,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 

While  I  stand  before  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  I  sense  my 
weakness,  and  ask,  with  humility,  for  your  faith  and  prayers  in  my 
behalf.  I  am  indeed  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  his  many  blessings  to 
me,  the  greatest,  of  course,  being  the  gospel  and  the  knowledge  of  its 
divinity.  The  most  cherished  blessing  of  the  gospel  is  the  opportunity 
it  gives  us  to  continue  throughout  all  eternity  the  family  ties  made 
on  earth.  Can  there  be  anything  greater  or  more  far-reaching?  Is 
there  any  greater  joy  that  can  come  than  that  which  comes  from  un- 
selfish love  for  others,  the  love  of  a  good  wife  and  husband,  united 
together  in  holy  matrimony,  the  love  for  our  children?  Is  there  any- 
thing which  makes  a  man  feel  more  like  bursting  his  shirt  buttons 
off  in  pride  and  happiness  than  the  first  time  he  picks  up  his  own 
child;  or  brings  the  mother  more  sheer  joy  than  when  her  first  child  is 
placed  in  her  arms? 

Importance  of  Temple  Marriage 

Yet  too  many  of  us  are  willing  to  give  up  all  these  joys  of  family 
ties  when  death  comes,  and  come  it  will,  to  separate  us.  If  we  do 
not  obey  God's  laws  of  celestial  marriage,  we  cannot  hope  to  continue 
as  a  family  unit  with  father,  mother,  children,  grandchildren,  and 
so  on  down  the  line.   Death  is  a  sad  enough  separation  at  best,  even 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


when  we  know  it  is  only  for  a  short  time,  but  to  have  no  certainty 
of  a  future  union,  that  would  be  darkness  indeed. 

God  has  been  so  kind  to  us  he  has  given  us  the  wonderful  pro- 
mise of  eternal  progression  in  our  family  units,  if  we  will  but  obey 
his  laws;  yet  it  is  constantly  being  brought  to  my  attention  that 
many  members  of  the  Church  are  not  taking  full  advantage  of  their 
blessings. 

Temple  marriage  is  an  ideal  which  should  be  upheld  in  our 
homes  from  earliest  infancy.  Don't  think  that  a  child  is  too  young 
to,  understand.  You  would  be  surprised  at  his  comprehension.  A 
small  seven-year-old  boy  was  being  teased  at  school  one  day;  his 
friends  were  saying  that  a  certain  little  girl  was  his  sweetheart. 
The  little  boy's  answer  was,  "Oh,  she  couldn't  be  my  sweetheart; 
she  isn't  even  a  Mormon."  Truly,  train  a  child  in  the  way  he  should 
go,  and  when  he  is  old,  he  will  not  depart  from  it. 

Training  in  the  Home 

We  have  had  too  many  cases  in  the  Church  (and  if  we 
have  had  one,  that  is  too  many ) ,  where  the  parents  have  been  active 
in  Church  work  and  thought  that  as  a  result  of  their  Church  activi- 
ties, the  Lord  would  take  care  of  their  children  for  them.  We  too 
often  forget  that  our  children  have  to  be  taught  the  gospel,  as  well 
as  anyone  else.  It  is  as  much  our  responsibility,  as  parents,  to  teach 
the  gospel  to  our  children  as  it  is  to  live  it  ourselves.  We  must  not 
take  it  for  granted  that  because  they  attend  Sunday  School,  Primary, 
and  M.I.A.,  our  responsibility  is  ended.  It  isn't;  it  is  only  begun.  It 
is  in  the  home  that  the  real  training  is  given.  From  infancy  on,  we 
exert  an  influence  which  will  direct  our  children's  lives.  We  mustn't 
be  too  busy  to  answer  questions  or  explain  the  principles  of  the 
gospel.  When  the  child  asks,  is  the  time  to  answer,  or  promise  a 
time  when  we  will  answer  and  then  keep  our  promise. 

I  have  fond  memories  of  the  home  of  my  youth,  where  many 
times,  many  evenings,  we  have  gathered  together  around  the  fire- 
place after  dinner  and  studied  the  scriptures.  We  have  taken  turns 
reading  to  each  other,  and  there  we  learned  many  of.  the  principles 
of  the  gospel  and  doctrines  which  have  helped  us  as  a  family;  and  I 
think  my  brothers  and  sisters  can  say  the  same,  as  their  experiences, 
with  mine,  have  helped  us  in  our  paths  of  life  to  stay  true  to  the 
gospel,  regardless  of  what  may  have  come  to  us. 

Our  children  are  entitled  to  our  missinonary  efforts  more  than 
anyone  else  in  the  world.  They  aren't  born  with  a  knowledge  of 
the  gospel,  just  because  we  are  good  Latter-day  Saints.  In  section 
68,  verse  28,  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  the  Lord  says: 

And  they  [parents]  shall  also  teach  their  children  to  pray,  and  to 
walk  uprightly  before  the  Lord. 

Parents,  this  is  your  responsibility,  not  that  of  the  Sunday  School 
or  the  M.I.A.  They  are  willing  to  help,  but  it  is  you  who  shall  have  to 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  2  Second  Day 

answer.  I  have  had  several  young  men  say  to  me,  "My  parents  never 
taught  any  of  their  children  the  laws  of  chastity,"  and  their  parents 
were  members  of  the  Church.  As  parents,  would  you  like  to  have 
that  to  answer  for?  Scarcely  a  day  passes  that  I  do  not  have  some- 
one come  to  see  me  who  is  having  family  trouble.  The  situations 
vary,  but  they  are  all  very  real.  They  usually  have  one  situation  in 
common:  they  are  not  married  in  the  temple,  and  they  do  not  pro- 
vide adequate  teaching  for  the  children.  Perhaps  the  fault  is  not 
all  theirs.  Perhaps  they  in  turn  did  not  learn  from  their  parents,  but 
they  are  suffering  for  the  need  of  the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  and  their 
children  are  suffering  . 

There  are  some  Latter-day  Saints  who  are  successful  in  con- 
verting their  companions  after  marriage.  Don't  expect  this  to 
happen  to  you.  In  most  of  these  cases  those  concerned  are  married 
before  they  know  or  understand  the  laws  of  temple  marriage.  Teach 
your  children  that  if  they  do  not  love  enough  to  be  married  for  eter- 
nity, they  should  not  be  married  at  all.  After  one  is  given  the  knowl- 
edge of  temple  marriage,  so  that  he  knows  how  the  Lord  intended 
marriage  to  be,  and  then  in  spite  of  that  knowledge  he  deliberately 
does  contrary,  it  is  like  closing  the  door  in  the  Lord's  face  and  saying, 
"I  don't  need  your  help;  I'll  get  along  without  you."  We  can't  af- 
ford to  try  to  get  along  without  the  Lord's  help. 

No  wonder  the  divorce  rate  is  much  lower  for  those  who  are 
married  for  time  and  eternity  than  for  those  who  have  only  a  civil 
or  ordinary  church  wedding.  The  Lord  will  help  them  to  overcome 
their  differences,  if  they  will  let  him.  If  we  understood  more  fully 
the  significance  of  celestial  marriage,  there  would  be  no  such  thing 
as  divorce  among  our  people. 

Blessings  of  Celestial  Marriage 

In  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  Lord  makes  the  follow- 
ing promise: 

And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  if  a  man  marry  a  wife  by  my  word, 
which  is  my  law,  and  by  the  new  and  everlasting  covenant,  and  it  is 
sealed  unto  them  by  the  Holy  Spirit  of  promise,  by  him  who  is  anointed, 
unto  whom  I  have  appointed  this  power  and  the  keys  of  this  priesthood; 
and  it  shall  be  said  unto  them — -Ye  shall  come  forth  in  the  first  resurrection; 
and  if  it  be  after  the  first  resurrection,  in  the  next  resurrection;  and  shall 
inherit  thrones,  kingdoms,  principalities,  and  powers,  dominions,  all 
heights  and  depths — then  shall  it  be  written  in  the  Lamb's  Book  of  Life, 
that  he  shall  commit  no  murder  whereby  to  shed  innocent  blood,  and  if 
he  abide  in  my  covenant,  and  commit  no  murder  whereby  to  shed  innocent 
blood,  it  shall  be  done  unto  them  in  all  things  whatsoever  my  servant 
hath  put  upon  them,  in  time,  and  through  all  eternity;  and  shall  be  of 
full  force  when  they  are  out  of  the  world;  and  they  shall  pass  by  the  angels, 
and  the  gods,  which  are  set  there,  to  their  exaltation  and  glory  in  all  things, 
as  hath  been  sealed  upon  their  heads,  which  glory  shall  be  a  fulness  and 
a  continuation  of  the  seeds  forever  and  ever. 

Then  shall  they  be  gods,  because  they  have  no  end;  therefore  shall 
they  be  from  everlasting  to  everlasting,  because  they  continue;  then  shall 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


93 


they  be  above  all,  because  all  things  are  subject  unto  them.  Then  shall 
they  be  gods,  because  they  have  all  power,  and  the  angels  are  subject 
unto  them. 

Verily,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  except  ye  abide  my  law,  ye  cannot 
attain  to  this  glory.   (D.  &  C.  132:19-21.) 

Opportunities  for  Exaltation 

We  often  say,  and  you  have  heard  the  expression  as  it  has 
already  been  referred  to  in  this  conference,  that  "as  man  now  is, 
God  once  was,  and  as  God  now  is,  man  may  become."  The  only  way 
man  may  become  as  God  now  is,  is  through  fulfilling  the  laws  of 
celestial  marriage  and  the  laws  of  the  gospel,  as  I  have  just  read  to 
you  the  word  of  the  Lord  from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  Can 
we  afford  to  overlook  such  opportunities  for  exaltation?  Temple 
marriage  is  not  just  another  form  of  church  wedding;  it  is  a  divine 
covenant  with  the  Lord  that  if  we  are  faithful  to  the  end,  we  may 
become  as  God  now  is. 

Are  you  teaching  your  children  to  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
only  because  it  is  a  good  health  habit,  or  are  you  teaching  them  that 
by  not  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom  they  are  not  eligible  to  re- 
ceive the  knowledge  and  understanding  to  comprehend  the  laws  of 
godliness,  and  so  will  be  deprived  of  the  opportunity  to  receive  the 
power  of  the  priesthood,  and  then  not  be  permitted  to  enter  the 
temple  and  thereby  lose  all  the  blessings  of  increase  for  all  eternity? 
That  is  quite  a  price  to  pay,  I  would  say.  We  are  told  they  will 
become  ministering  angels,  and  in  worlds  without  end  shall  have  no 
increase.  (See  D.  &  C.  132:15-18.) 

Teach  them  to  live  the  gospel  by  keeping  all  the  laws  and 
ordinances  of  the  gospel,  that  they  may  have  eternal  life.  No  price 
is  too  high,  no  sacrifice  too  great. 

May  the  Lord's  blessings  be  with  us.  May  we  follow  these 
teachings  and  counsels,  that  these  blessings  and  promises  that  are 
given  to  us  will  be  realized  in  due  time,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Like  all  great  movements  in  history,  the  rise  of  Mormonism 
has  been  interpreted  in  various  ways.  When  we  think  of  its  im- 
portance in  the  preparation  of  our  modern  habit  of  mind,  we  must 
class  it  with  the  greatest  epochs  of  advancement  in  human  history. 
Great  epochs  have  always  had  a  prime  mover,  a  man  with  en- 
lightened soul.  So  it  is  with  Mormonism.  Human  society  con- 
tains in  itself  the  causes  of  development  in  everything  except  the 
higher  religious  and  moral  truths,  and  the  real  facts  of  our  future 
life.    To  the  divine  help,  the  life  of  Joseph  Smith  was  confined; 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  2  Second  Day 

to  the  bringing  of  that  higher  truth  and  moral  light  which  could 
not  be  developed  except  by  some  divine  message  from  heaven.  He 
brought  to  light  the  nature  of  God,  man's  immortality,  and  the 
highest  elements  of  moral  character.  The  things  which  he  taught 
are  destined  to  be  recognized  as  the  most  enlightened  teachings  for 
the  world  since  Jesus  Christ  gave  his  gospel  to  mankind.  The  power 
of  his  teachings  is  gradually  rising  to  shape  the  destiny  of  the 
human  race.  As  a  boy  he  bore  witness  to  the  nations  of  the  earth 
of  the  need  of  a  light  which  is  not  of  man. 

Divisions  of  Christianity 

Itinerant  preachers  of  the  frontier  came  to  the  parental  cabin 
with  tracts  on  the  subject  of  religion.  These  preachers  were  the 
representatives  of  the  denominations  of  America,  particularly  the 
Protestant  faiths.  The  divisions  of  Christendom  were  the  most 
conspicuous  reproach  and  chief  cause  of  the  inefficiency  of  Chistian- 
ity.  "They  presented  a  moral  affront  to  the  enterprise  inaugurated 
by  Jesus  Christ  and  constituted  the  outstanding  limitation  of  its 
progress  in  the  world."  Mr.  Herbert  L.  Willett  in  a  recent  article 
in  the  magazine,  Christendom,  says: 

As  truly  as  war  is  an  anachronism  and  a  scandal  to  civilization  the 
divided  state  of  the  Church  is  an  affront  to  Christianity. 

"Divide  and  conquer,"  was  the  counsel  which  Milton  put  into 
the  mouth  of  Satan  in  the  assembly  of  the  rebel  angels. 

Dispensations  of  the  Gospel  , 

In  the  history  of  mankind  down  to  the  time  of  Christ,  there 
have  been  dispensations  of  the  gospel  of  Christ.  Adam,  the  father 
of  the  human  race,  had  the  gospel.  His  descendants  were  know- 
ing men,  men  with  a  knowledge  of  God.  Between  God  and  the 
earth  was  man,  created  in  the  image  of  God.  The  description 
is  exalted.  The  greatness  of  man  came  by  his  knowledge  that  he 
was  closely  related  to  his  Creator,  and  he  felt  the  divine  creative 
presence.  He  knew  his  Creator,  he  listened  to  him,  he  obeyed  him, 
he  loved  him.  In  a  phrase  written  long  after  by  the  Psalmist,  man 
was  made  "a  little  lower  than  the  angels,  and  hast  crowned  him 
with  glory  and  honour."  (Psalms  8:5.)  From  Adam's  time  to  the 
present,  we  may  know  this  truth:  "No  religion  made  by  man  can  do 
for  men  that  which  must  be  done." 

One  modern  writer,  Maurice  Maeterlinck,  writes  in  his  book, 
The  Great  Secret:  "What  we  read  in  the  ancient  archives  of  wis- 
dom gives  us  only  a  faint  idea  of  the  sublime  doctrines  of  the  ancient 
teachers,  and  even  so  these  are  not  in  their  original  form.  The 
more  ancient  the  texts,  the  purer,  the  more  awe-inspiring  the  doc- 
trines which  they  reveal."       '..  '    r". :  :   -  i  s"r:l 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG  95 


Contributions  of  Joseph  Smith 

The  facts  of  the  Prophet's  life  are  many.  His  teachings  are 
reduced  to  writing  in  one  of  the  marvelous  books  of  the  age 
in  which  we  live:  The  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  We  may  con- 
trast this  fact  with  the  influence  of  other  men  upon  the  world,  for 
there  have  been  teachers  whose  influence  never  will  die.  Socrates 
became  a  moral  force  for  mankind  throughout  the  ages.  Plato,  his 
disciple,  was  second  to  none  as  a  great  teacher.  He  wrote  copiously 
and  elaborately.  Possibly  no  one  has  ever  surpassed  him  in  the 
art  of  writing  and  thinking.  Then  came  Aristotle,  who  wrote  on 
science  and  philosophy.  The  force  of  the  Greek  mind  of  ages  ago 
still  lives.  All  of  these  masters  were  morally  and  intellectually  great. 
Joseph  Smith  stands  out  as  the  revealer  of  God's  eternal  principles 
that  show  above  all  writers  in  this  age  the  divinity  of  man;  the  doc- 
trine of  eternal  progression;  the  true  meaning  of  salvation;  the  di- 
vine love  which  man  must  have  toward  all  other  men;  the  purify- 
ing of  the  soul  before  God. 

'  His  teachings  are  not  the  result  of  mere  intellectual  attain- 
ments. It  was  not  human  genius  that  made  him  what  he  was;  It 
is  not  enough  for  man  to  think  wisely  and  well.  The  power"  of 
his  teachings  has  arisen  from  the  words  that  God  spoke  to  him. 
The  secret  of  his  power  lay  in  the  truth  that  man  is  a  divine  creation 
and  can  understand  the  divine  word  if  one's  life  is  tuned  to  the 
noblest  feeling  with  his  God.  The  men  who  accepted  the  revealed 
gospel,  who  were  given  the  priesthood,  helped  to  inaugurate  a  new 
period  in  the  history  of  the  human  race. 

Religion  Requires  Revelation 

The  supreme  test  of  religion  is  revelation.  No  religion  can  be 
persuasive  and  convincing  that  does  not  rely  upon  and  embody  an 
authentic  principle  of  revelation.  Religion  as  a  purely  human  pro- 
duct, valuable  as  it  might  be  to  human  progress,  has  not  the  inner 
vigor  to  maintain  a  place  of  commanding  power.  Religion  requires 
revelation.  All  truth  is  revealed  not  less  so  because  it  is  discovered. 

The  most  complete  carrier  of  revelation  can  be  no  other  or  less 
than  a  chosen  personality.  This  is  the  Christian  doctrine  and  con- 
ception. Revelation  requires  development  and  the  concept  of  the 
divinity  of  the  spirit  and  mind  of  man.  Such  was  in  brief  the  teach- 
ing of  Adam,  of  Abraham,  of  Moses,  Isaiah,  and  all  the  prophets 
of  the  Old  Testament.  It  constituted  the  pure  idealism  and  faith 
of  Jesus  Christ,  for  he  gave  to  his  Father  in  heaven  the  dominant 
role  in  ordering  the  world  for  good.  It  gave  in  olden  times,  and  must 
give  now,  the  supreme  lesson  that  God  lives,  that  the  spirit  and 
the  body  are  the  soul  of  man,  and  the  resurrection  from  the  dead  is 
the  redemption  of  the  soul.  Therefore,  it  must  needs  be  sanctified 
from  all  unrighteousness,  that  it  may  be  prepared  for  the  celestial 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

glory.  It  gives  to  man  the  supreme  principles  of  ethical  and  moral 
life.  It  becomes  the  supreme  power  whereby  man  knows  life  and 
knows  it  more  abundantly, 

For  intelligence  cleaveth  unto  intelligence;  wisdom  receiveth  wisdom; 
truth  embraceth  truth;  virtue  loveth  virtue;  light  cleaveth  unto  light;  mercy 
hath  compassion  on  mercy  and  claimeth  its  own;  justice  continueth  its 
course  and  claimeth  its  own;  judgment  goeth  before  the  face  of  him  who 
sitteth  upon  the  throne  and  governeth  and  executeth  all  things. 

"The  Glory  of  God  is  Intelligence,  .  .  .  light  and  truth."  "To 
his  own  master  each  man  will  stand  or  fall;  and  he  that  judgeth  us 
is  the  Lord."  We  will  serve  our  church  and  country  best  as  we  per- 
form day  by  day  and  hour  by  hour  those  humble  and  simple  acts 
of  self-dedication  which  make  our  lives  a  silent  witness  of  him  who 
brought  light,  and  life  and  love  into  this  sorrowful  world. 

The  Founders  of  America 

America  must  hold  to  the  simple  beginnings  of  our  founders. 
They  brought  hither  in  their  little  ships  not  money,  not  merchandise, 
no  array  of  armed  force,  but  they  came  with  deep  religious  feelings, 
learning,  law,  and  the  spirit  of  faith.  When  they  stepped  upon 
these  shores  a  wild,  frowning  wilderness  received  them.  Strong  in 
their  faith  in  God,  they  began  their  combat  with  danger  and  hard- 
ship. Sickness  overcame  them,  but  they  fainted  not.  They  feasted 
on  roots  with  patient  spirits.  The  first  thing  they  did  was  to  kneel 
and  give  thanks  to  God  for  his  protective  care.  Then  they  built  a 
meetinghouse  where  they  might  worship,  then  a  house  for  them- 
selves. They  established  education  and  stern  principles  of  morality. 
Their  old  town  government  was  the  most  democratic  of  all  govern- 
ments. They  knew  the  meaning  of  the  term  democratic,  meaning 
a  government  of  the  people,  but  back  of  it  is  the  feeling  that  every 
person  must  have  a  due  respect  for  the  rights  of  all  other  people. 
Churches  arose  in  the  depths  of  the  forests,  industry  was  fostered, 
no  easy  work  in  those  days;  colleges  were  established,  and  their  civic 
life  soon  grew  into  the  majesty  of  states.  Then  came  a  mighty  na- 
tion— a  nation  of  law,  art,  industry,  education,  and  an  expansion 
into  new  territory  never  before  equaled  in  the  history  of  man.  A 
government  was  brought  into  being  with  a  background  of  civic  and 
political  idealism  which  was  the  blessing  of  Almighty  God,  and 
for  this  they  gave  thanks  in  solemn  prayer,  y 

Carrying  the  Gospel  to  the  Nations 

Today  we  are  sending  into  all  the  world  young  men  and  women 
who  are  carrying  the  gospel  to  the  nations.  It  is  a  holy  duty!  We 
are  turning  our  thoughts  forward,  as  was  done  when  the  Church 
was  organized.  The  missionary  idea  cannot  be  lost  and  the  expecta- 
tions cherished  by  our  fathers  cannot  be  forgotten.  Men  and  women 
of  many  nations  have  found  in  the  faith  that  which  they  required. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


97 


They  have  been  the  means  of  adding  to  the  culture  of  our  state.  We 
must  not  overlook  the  benefits  which  these  men  confer.  They  are 
by  no  means  confined  to  things  unseen  and  eternal.  They  are  stu- 
dents and  teachers.  Geography,  ethnology,  history,  sociology, 
philology,  and  every  department  of  knowledge  is  indebted  to  them. 
They  represent  their  country,  and  with  honor.  What  we  term 
missionary  work  is  not  limited  to  personal  effort.  Nations  are  mis- 
sionaries. Our  mission  today  is  to  act.  We  must  advance  the 
cause  of  the  restored  gospel  by  our  onward  march  to  greater  ac- 
complishments. No  one  can  measure  the  years  to  come.  To  be 
alive  and  increasing,  to  be  young  and  awake,  this  is  the  order  of  the 
future.  The  heroes  and  divinities  of  the  past  have  their  own  place, 
but  we  have  our  leaders  today.  There  is  perspective  in  prophecy. 
A  prophet  of  old  declared:  "Your  young  men  shall  see  visions. 
Your  sons  and  daughters  shall  prophecy."  Today  it»is  superbly  true. 
If  there  was  ever  a  time  that  the  world  needs  vision,  it  is  today. 

Duties  of  Seventies 

Our  Seventies  have  a  great  duty,  a  divine  call.  They  are  work- 
ers in  the  vineyard  of  God  wherever  they  live.  They  must  keep 
ever  in  mind  that  they  have  a  fine  ambition  to  teach  and  to  live. 
In  their  everyday  walks  of  life,  they  are  committed  to  nothing  but 
the  truth.  They  have  the  ardor  of  youth  with  the  discipline  of  study 
and  prayer.  The  word  Seventy  signifies  a  divine  calling  to  teach 
God's  word.  The  gospel  must  prevail  in  all  the  world.  We  need 
energy,  enterprise,  to  prove  that  the  "now"  is  the  most  important  time 
of  all.  It  is  an  unmistakable  idea  that  a  man  who  gives  himself  to 
Christ  and  his  Spirit,  will  become  what  has  been  termed  "a  new  man." 
The  gospel  requires  reverent  and  hopeful  study.  The  gospel  does 
more  than  teach  duty.  It  provides  the  motive  and  desire  to  do  it, 
and  it  gives  the  moral  strength.  The  divine  message  is  advancing, 
and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  moves  before  it,  cloud  by  day  and  fire 
by  night.   The  truth  of  Christ  is  to  find  men  and  to  save  them. 

My  brother  Seventies,  what  the  world  needs  first  and  to  the 
end  is  God.  Not  God  in  the  heavens  and  in  the  past  alone.  But 
God  here,  and  known  by  "the  man  whom  he  hath  ordained."  The 
renewed  gospel  is  young,  and  the  currents  of  its  life  are  strong.  It 
keeps  pace  with  knowledge,  and  intends  to  bring  the  world  to  the 
Lord.  It  is  deep  in  the  heart  of  man.  The  peoples  of  the  world 
have  made  some  preparation  in  the  past.  They  are  making  preparat- 
ion today.  India  will  some  day  welcome  missionaries.  The  walls 
of  Egyptian  sanctuaries  long  since  destroyed  will  be  rebuilt  for 
Christ.  The  land  of  the  Nile  sheltered  Christ  when  he  was  a  child. 
It  will  shelter  Christ  again.   All  nations  shall  know  his  word. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn:  "Now  Let  Us 
Rejoice." 


98  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  2  Second  Day 

ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters:  This  is  an  inspiring  but  sober- 
ing experience.  I  pray  for  the  inspiration  of  heaven  and  for  your 
faith  and  prayers  as  I  attempt  to  speak  to  you  briefly  this  after- 
noon. 

Faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 

I  never  return  from  visiting  one  of  the  great  missions  of  the 
Church,  as  I  did  this  week,  or  return  from  visiting  a  stake  of  Zion, 
but  what  my  heart  is  filled  with  gratitude  as  I  note  the  devotion, 
the  loyalty,  and  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  As  I  witness 
the  growth  of  th,e  work  of  the  Lord  in  various  parts  of  the  world, 
my  heart  rejoices.  With  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  love  this 
great  latter-day  work.  I  am  wondering  today  if  we  fully  appreciate 
what  we  have. 

I  have  sometimes  said  to  my  wife,  as  I  returned  from  visiting 
in  the  stakes,  that  I  do  not  know  exactly  what  heaven  is  going  to 
be  like,  but  I  could  ask  nothing  finer  over  there  than  to  have  the 
pleasure  and  joy  of  associating  with  the  type  of  men  and  women  I 
meet  in  the  leadership  of  the  stakes  and  wards  of  Zion  and  the  mis- 
sions of  the  earth.  Truly  we  are  richly  blessed.  President  Smith 
continually  calls  our  attention  to  the  rich  treasures  of  heaven  that 
come  to  us  as  Latter-day  Saints,  members  of  the  true  church  of 
Christ.  It  is  about  one  of  these  blessings  that  I  should  like  to  speak 
briefly  this  afternoon. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  said  many  years  ago  that  one  of  the  great- 
est sins  for  which  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  guilty  is  the  sin  of  in- 
gratitude. I  wonder,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  are  fully  grate- 
ful for  all  that  we  enjoy. 

Distinguishing  Feature  of  True  Church 

One  of  the  distinguishing  features,  and  a  very  important  fea- 
ture, of  the  true  church  of  Christ  is  its  priesthood,  the  authority  of 
God.  It  is  widely  distributed  among  the  male  membership  of  the 
Church,  boys  and  men,  fathers  and  sons,  and  its  blessings  are 
shared  by  our  mothers,  daughters  and  wives.  Do  we  fully  under- 
stand and  appreciate  what  it  means  to  us?  What  is  it  and  what 
is  its  significance  to  those  of  us  who  have  been  blessed  with  it? 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  said: 

[The  priesthood]  is  nothing  more  nor  less  than  the  power  of  God 
delegated  to  man  by  which  man  can  act  in  the  earth  for  the  salvation 
of  the  human  family,  in  the  name  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son  and  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  and  act  legitimately;  not  assuming  that  authority,  nor  bor- 
rowing it  from  generations  that  are  dead  and  gone,  but  authority  that  has 
been  given  in  this  day  in  which  we  live  by  ministering  angels  and  spirits 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


99 


from  above,  direct  from  the  presence  of  Almighty  God.  .  .  .  (Gospel 
Doctrine  1939  edition,  pp.  139-140.) 

President  Taylor  said: 

[Priesthood]  is  the  power  of  God  delegated  to  intelligences  in  the 
heavens  and  to  men  on  the  earth.  (The  Gospel  Kingdom,  p.  129.) 

So  priesthood  transcends  this  mortal  life.  Its  power  and  great- 
ness has  been  referred  to  by  prophets,  modern  and  ancient.  In  my 
own  heart  I  can  conceive  of  nothing  greater  that  man  can  possess 
than  the  priesthood  of  God,  coupled  with  a  burning  testimony  of 
the  divinity  of  this  work.  The  two  should  always  be  coupled  to- 
gether. Priesthood  is  the  very  heart  of  the  Church.  We  may  have 
the  priesthood  without  the  Church,  but  never  the  Church  without 
the  priesthood. 

Gift  of  the  Holy  Priesthood 

There  are  many  gifts  that  we  enjoy  as  members  of  the  Church, 
but  I  can  think  of  none  greater  than  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Priesthood, 
the  authority  to  represent  God  in  the  earth.  This  priesthood  is 
destined  to  build  and  exalt  men  as  well  as  to  assist  the  Lord  in  the 
promotion  of  his  great  work  in  saving  and  exalting  the  souls  of  men. 

-  In  recent  weeks,  in  fact,  within  the  last  few  days,  there  have 
come  into  this  building  two  distinguished  Americans,  one  of  them 
the  President  of  the  United  States.  I  was  not  able  to  attend  the 
meeting  at  which  he  spoke,  but  as  I  sat  here  the  other  night  and 
contemplated  our  blessings  as  we  listened  to  the  other  distinguished 
visitor,  I  wondered  how  men  of  the  priesthood  regard  their  priest- 
hood in  comparison  with  the  honors  of  men,  political  and  otherwise. 
Is  the  wealth  of  the  world  or  the  honors  of  men  to  be  compared 
with  the  priesthood  of  God 

I  realize  it  comes  easy.  Our  boys  twelve  years  of  age,  if  worthy, 
receive  the  Holy  Priesthood  by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  and  our 
young  men  are  hardly  more  than  boys  when  at  nineteen  they  re- 
ceive the  holy  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  the  authority  to  officiate  in 
the  most  sacred  ordinances  known  to  man.  This  priesthood  will,  if 
they  are  worthy,  entitle  them  eventually  to  a  place  in  the  celestial 
kingdom  of  God.  I  have  been  amazed  at  the  great  number  of  men 
and  boys  in  the  Church  who  hold  this  great  authority  and  who  have 
in  their  hands  this  great  blessing,  if  they  will  only  take  advantage 
of  it. 

I  checked  a  few  figures  recently  which  indicate  that  we  have 
approximately  280,140  men  and  boys  in  the  Church  who  hold  the 
priesthood.  There  are  146,330  who  hold  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood— elders  in  the  Church — who  are  candidates  for  the  celestial 
kingdom.  We  have  133,810  boys  who  have  been  blessed  with  this 
great  privilege  of  serving  in  the  name  of  the  Master. 


100  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  2  Second  Day 

Obligation  of  the  Priesthood  Bearer 

What  is  the  obligation  of  the  priesthood  bearer?  We  have 
been  referred  to  as  the  greatest  body  of  men  on  the  face  of  the 
earth.  Of  course  the  fact  that  we  possess  the  priesthood,  is  no 
assurance  of  our  exaltation.  But  certainly  in  terms  of  power,  pre- 
rogative, and  responsibility  no  group  of  men  in  all  the  world  has 
been  blessed  with  such  obligations  and  opportunities  as  has  the 
body  of  men  and  boys  in  the  Church  who  hold  the  priesthood. 

I  have  been  impressed,  too,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  prob- 
ably nowhere  in  all  the  world  can  we  find  a  group  of  men  who  give 
so  unselfishly  of  their  time,  their  means,  and  their  talents  to  the 
promotion  of  good  and  righteousness  in  the  world  as  does  this 
body  of  men.  I  marvel  as  I  witness  the  great  voluntary  service 
which  is  carried  forward  by  this  body  of  priesthood,  and  always 
in  the  back  of  my  head,  as  I  give  encouragement  to  greater  activity, 
is  the  assurance  that  this  is  a  choice  group  of  men.  In  the  Church, 
there  is  truly  a  spirit  of  unselfish  service. 

Spirit  of  Service 

There  came  to  my  office  a  few  days  ago  a  fine  upstanding,  sweet- 
spirited  elderly  man.  He  'came  in  timidly  and  took  a  chair  at  the 
desk,  and  then  he  said:  "Brother  Benson,  how  old  can  a  man  be  be- 
fore he  is  too  old  to  go  on  a  mission?" 

And  I  answered:  "My  good  brother,  I  do  not  know  that  there 
is  any  upper  age  limit." 

He  said:  "I  have  been  on  two  missions,  and  I  would  like  to  go 
on  one  more  before  I  pass  away.  I  would  like  to  go  back  to  Okla- 
homa, where  I  served  my  second  mission.  Do  you  think  I  am  too 
old?" 

"How  old  are  you?" 

"Eighty-six;  but  I  would  like  to  go  once  more  before  I  die." 

Now,  there  is  much  of  that  spirit  among  the  priesthood  of  the 
Church.  I  thrill  with  it,  my  brethren,  and  I  am  grateful  to  be  as- 
sociated with  men  who  carry  that  spirit. 

I  have  been  impressed  in  reading  the  revelations,  that  there  are 
at  least  four  significant  things  pertaining  to  this  priesthood  which 
have  been  emphasized  by  the  Lord  to  his  prophets.  If  I  may,  I 
Would  like  to  refer  to  those  four  items. 

Oath  and  Covenant  of  Priesthood 

Back  in  1832  when  the  missionaries  had  returned  from  their 
fields. of  labor  to  Kirtland,  Ohio,  and  had  evidenced  concern  about 
the  priesthood  which  they  had  been  blessed  with,  the  Lord  gave  a 
revelation  on  priesthood,  contained  in  the  84th  section  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants.  In  that  revelation  the  Lord  spoke  of  the  "oath 
and  covenant"  of  the  priesthood,  and  the  obligation  of  men  who 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


101 


hold  it  to  be  true  and  faithful  to  that  priesthood  and  to  magnify  their 
callings.    The  Lord  said: 

.  .  .  whoso  is  faithful  unto  the  obtaining  these  two  priesthoods  of 
which  I  have  spoken,  and  the  magnifying  of  their  callings,  are  sanctified  by 
the  Spirit,  .  .  .  [and  become]  ...  the  church  and  kingdom  and  the  elect 
of  God.  (D.  &  C.  84:33-34.) 

And  then,  even  more  significant,  this  great  promise  was  made: 
".  .  .  therefore  all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be  given  unto  him," 
{Idem  38)  the  priesthood-bearer  who  is  faithful  and  magnifies  his 
calling. 

". .  .  this,"  says  the  Lord,  "is  according  to  the  oath  and  covenant 
which  belongeth  to  the  priesthood  .  .  .  those  who  receive  the  priest- 
hood," the  Lord  indicates,  "receive  this  oath  and  covenant  of  my 
Father,  which  he  cannot  break.  .  .  ."  (Idem  39-40.) 

And  this  solemn  warning: 

But  whoso  breaketh  this  covenant  after  he  hath  received  it,  and 
altogether  turneth  therefrom,  shall  not  have  forgiveness  of  sins  in  this 
world  nor  in  the  world  to  come.  (Idem  41.) 

Now  this  covenant  is  between  our  Heavenly  Father  and  those 
of  us  who  bear  the  priesthood.  We  promise  when  we  receive  it  to 
be  true  and  faithful,  to  honor  the  priesthood  and  magnify  it.  The 
Lord  promises  in  return  the  richest  blessings  of  eternity. 

"Anxiously  Engaged  in  a  Good  Cause-" 

The  second  significant  thing  spoken  of  in  the  revelations  is 
found  in  the  fifty-eighth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and 
was  given  to  the  elders  117  years  ago.  It  is  to  the  effect  that  men 
who  hold  the  priesthood  "should  be  anxiously  engaged  in  a  good 
cause."  The  Lord  points  out  that  it  is  not  to  be  expected,  it  is  not 
expedient,  "it  is  not  meet,"  he  says,  "that  I  should  command  in  all 
things,"  for  he  that  does  not  anything  until  he  is  commanded  is  a 
slothful  servant.  -And  then  he  says:  "...  men  should  be  anxiously 
engaged  in  a  good  cause  .'.  .  and  bring  to  pass  much  righteousness" 
(D.  6  C.  58:26-27),  of  their  own  free  will  for  the  power  is  in  them 
to  be  agents  unto  themselves. 

So  it  is  not  enough  to  receive  the  priesthood  and  then  sit  back 
passively  and  wait  until  someone  prods  us  into  activity.  When  we 
receive  the  priesthood,  we  have  the  obligation  of  becoming  actively 
and  anxiously  engaged  in  promoting  the  cause  of  righteousness  in 
the  earth,  because  the  Lord  says: 

...  he  that  doeth  not  anything  until  he  is  commanded,  and  receiveth 
a  commandment  with  doubtful  heart,  and  keepeth  it  with  slothfulness, 
the  same  is  damned.  (Idem  29.) 

Priesthood  Exercised  Upon  Righteousness 


The  third  significant  thing  regarding  the  priesthood  and  the 
priesthood-bearer  is  that  it  should  be  exercised  "only  upon  princi- 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Dag 

pies  of  righteousness."  Reference  was  made  by  President  Clark 
this  morning  to  that  section  of  prayer  and  prophecies  of  the  Proph- 
et Joseph,  section  121,  in  which  it  is  pointed  out  that  many  are  called 
but  few  are  chosen.  And  the  reason  why  they  are  not  chosen  is 
because  men's  hearts  are  so  set  upon  the  things  of  this  world  and 
aspire  to  the  honors  of  men  that  they  do  not  learn  fundamental 
lessons.  "That  the  rights  of  the  priesthood  are  inseparably  con- 
nected with  the  powers  of  heaven"  (D.  &  C.  121:36),  and  the 
priesthood  can  be  exercised  and  controlled  only  upon  the  principles 
of  righteousness.  Yes,  there  is  danger  in  receiving  authority  and 
power,  if  exercised  unrighteously.  And  the  Prophet  makes  it  very 
clear  that  it  seems  to'  be  the  disposition  of  almost  all  men,  as  soon 
as  they  get  a  little  power,  to  exercise  unrighteous  dominion  over 
their  fellows,  and  when  that  time  comes,  then  there  usually  follows' 
the  spirit  of  apostasy,  a  spirit  of  criticism,  a  tendency  to  persecute 
the  Saints  and  fight  against  the  Church.  "No  power  or  influence 
can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the  priesthood,"  says 
this  section,  "only  by  persuasion,  by  long-suffering,  by  gentleness 
and  meekness,  and  by  love  unfeigned."  (Idem  41.)  And  then  great 
promises  follow  to  the  man  who  exercises  his  priesthood  upon  the 
principles  of  righteousness. 

Act  in  All  Diligence 

The  fourth  significant  thing  is  found  in  that  great  revelation 
on  the  priesthood,,  given  through  the  Prophet  to  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  and  the  Church  as  the  Twelve  were  about  to  depart  on 
missions  to  various  parts  of  the  country.  It  is  contained  in  the  107th 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  The  Lord  closes  that  great 
revelation  with  these  words: 

Wherefore,  now  let  every  man  learn  his  duty,  and  to  act  in  the  office 
in  which  he  is  appointed,  in  all  diligence.  He  that  is  slothful  shall  not 
be  counted  worthy  to  stand,  and  he  that  learns  not  his  duty  and  shows  him- 
self not  approved  shall  not  be  counted  worthy  to  stand.'  (Ibid.  107:99- 
100.    Italics  speaker's.) 

There  are  two  obligations  in  connection  with  that  significant  in- 
junction; first,  that  we  learn  our  duty,  and  secondly,  that  we  act  in 
the  office  in  which  we  have  been  appointed  in  all  diligence. 

Now  to  help  to  make  this  priesthood  more  effective  in  our  lives 
and  in  the  lives  of  those  we  serve,  the  Lord  has  provided  quorums 
of  the  priesthood — service  units,  classes,  brotherhoods — through 
which  we  may  operate  and  make  our  efforts  more  productive  of 
good. 

Obligations  of  Priesthood 

There  are  really  two  great  obligations  resting  upon  the  priest- 
hood quorum,  or  brotherhood.  First,  is  the  obligation  of  looking 
after  the  welfare  of  our  members.    Anything  pertaining  to  the  so- 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


103 


cial,  economic,  or  spiritual  welfare  of  memBers  should  be  the  concern 
of  the  quorum.  In  addition,  it  is  the  great  obligation  of  quorums  to 
assist  in  promoting  the  program  of  the  Church  which  is  three- fold: 
first,  the  building  up  of  the  stakes  and  wards  of  Zion  and  keeping  the 
people  in  the  line  of  their  duty;  second,  the  carrying  of  the  mes- 
sage of  the  restored  gospel  to  those  who  have  not  yet  heard  it  or 
accepted  it;  and  third,  the  carrying  forward  of  the  great  responsibility 
of  temple  work  for  the  living  and  the  dead  in  the  houses  of  the 
Lord. 

These  obligations  rest  squarely  upon  the  priesthood. 

Inactive  Members  Present  Challenge 

Now,  my  brethren,  we  face  a  great  challenge.  At  the  present 
time  we  have  wide  participation  and  wide  activity,  and  we  are  making 
progress  as  evidenced  by  the  records  that  come  in  from  all  parts  of 
the  Church.  Our  progress  is  splendid.  Our  performance  probably 
was  never  any  better,  if  as  good,  as  now,  yet  there  is  much  to  be 
done.  As  we  have  checked  the  records  for  last  year,  we  find  that 
approximately  one-third  of  the  total  Melchizedek  Priesthood  mem- 
bership is  not  engaged  in  any  Church  activity  of  any  kind.  In 
addition  to  this  group  we  have  approximately  twenty  thousand  men 
over  twenty-one  who  hold  no  priesthood;  approximately  fifty-six 
thousand  adult  members  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  and  some 
four  thousand  boys  twelve  to  twenty-one  not  yet  ordained.  This 
gives  a  total  of  eighty  thousand  for  which  the  Lord  will  hold  us  in 
large  measure  responsible,  to  win  them  to'  activity  and  devotion, 
so  that  they  may  receive  the  Holy  Melchizedek  Priesthood  and 
enjoy  blessings  which  flow  therefrom.  This  great  number,  plus 
inactive  Melchizedek  Priesthood  members,  present  a  great  respon- 
sibility and  challenge.  In  their  veins  flow  some  of  the  best  blood  of 
this  dispensation. 

We  are  expected,  in  very  deed,  to  be  our  brother's  keeper,  and 
if  we  fail,  we  will,  of  course,  be  our  own  accusers.  Now  is  the  time 
to  live  the  standards  of  the  Church,  to  magnify  our  priesthood,  to 
live  worthy  of  the  rich  promises  made  to  us  as  bearers  of  the  priest- 
hood. Let  us,  therefore,  be  anxiously  engaged  in  a  good  cause.  Let 
us  be  true  to  the  oath  and  covenant  of  the  priesthood.  Let  us  exer- 
cise the  priesthood  upon  the  principles  of  righteousness.  And  let 
us  all  learn  our  duty  and  act  in  the  office  in  which  we  have  been 
appointed  in  all  diligence. 

I  leave  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  my  testimony  that 
no  greater  blessing  can  come  to  any  man  on  this  earth  than  to  re- 
ceive the  priesthood  of  God  and  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this 
work,  if  he  honors  that  priesthood  and  lives  according  to  the  teach- 
ings and.  standards  of  the  church. 

This  is  the  work  of  God.  I  know  it  as  I  know  I  live.  May  God 
help  us  as  a  body  of  men,  clothed  with  power  and  authority,  to  help 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  2  Second  Day 

establish  Zion  and  build  up  the  kingdom,  to  go  forward  and  ac- 
complish the  work  which  the  Lord  would  have  us  do,  without  flinching 
and  without  hesitation,  in  all  faithfulness,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ROY  W.  DOXEY 

Formerly  President  of  Eastern  States  Mission 

I  am  grateful  indeed  for  this  opportunity  to  stand  before  you, 
coming  so  soon  after  my  release  from  the  Eastern  States  Mission. 
Sister  Doxey  and  I  have  been  here  only  one  week. 

Words  cannot  express  the  gratitude  of  our  hearts  for  this 
wonderful  privilege  we  have  enjoyed  of  serving  in  a  mission  of  the 
Church.  There  have  been  many  things  in  our  lives  through  which 
blessings  have  been  received  but  of  all  things  we  feel  this  has  been 
the  greatest  blessing  that  has  come  into  our  lives. 

The  missionary  field  is  a  great  experience.  In  the  mission  field 
there  is  power,  and  there  is  happiness  and  joy  in  the  lives  of  the 
missionaries  and  the  membership  of  the  Church.  I  should  like  to 
bring  to  you  now  the  greetings  of  the  over  one  hundred  and  sixty 
missionaries  in  that  mission  and  also  the  membership  of  the  Eastern 
States  Mission.  They  are  doing  a  very,  very  fine  work  and  the  Lord 
is  blessing  their  efforts. 

Of  the  many  experiences  which  come  into  a  missionary's  life, 
he  finds  his  relationship  to  his  Father  in  heaven,  and  it  has  been  our 
joy  to  see  in  the  lives  of  the  missionaries  the  strength  which  comes 
through  diligence,  through  prayer  and  through  activity  in  this  great 
work. 

The  Lord  blesses  the  missionaries  in  many,  many  ways.  I  am 
sure  that  their  lives  are  greatly  enriched,  and  when  they  come  home 
they  have  found  great  happiness  here  in  seeing  the  membership  of 
the  Church  in  Zion  faithful  and  true. 

I  am  thinking  now  of  the  many  experiences  which  have  come 
to  many  of  these  missionaries  as  they  have  participated  actively  in 
the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  recall  the  power  and  influence  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  in  the  lives  of  converts  to  this  Church  as  they  have  been  brought 
into  the  faith  through  the  efforts  of  these  young  men  and  women. 
The  happiness  and  joy  that  may  come  to  them  is  so  great  that  tears 
have  been  shed  on  many  occasions  by  converts  in  expressing  their 
happiness  in  the  fact  that  they  have  been  found  by  the  missionaries, 
and  their  souls  have  been  touched  by  the  Holy  Spirit. 

Many  expressions  of  joy  and  happiness  are  found  in  the  mis- 
sion field  by  the  membership,  the  converts  to  the  Church.  I  re- 
call that  not  many  months  ago  there  came  into  my  office  a  man  who 
has  served  as  an  evangelist.  He  was  free-lancing  through  this 
country  and  had  spent  considerable  time  in  proselyting  a  message 


ELDER  ROY  W.  DOXEY 


105 


which  he  felt  was  most  important.  He  had  come  into  possession  of 
a  Book  of  Mormon  and  in  reading  it  the  Spirit  of  God  had  touched 
his  soul.  It  had  touched  his  soul  so  strongly  that  he  had  come  to  the 
conclusion  that  he  must  find  more  copies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  to 
distribute  to  his  friends  in  his  proselyting  work.  Tears  of  joy  came 
into  his  eyes  as  there  was  unfolded  to  him  the  great  possibilities  for 
increasing  faith  in  Jesus  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  through 
the  instrumentality  of  this  sacred  record.  It  was  his  statement  and 
belief  that  through  the  Book  of  Mormon  there  could  come  greater 
faith  in  the  lives  of  people  than  through  the  other  great  book  of 
scripture  known  as  the  Holy  Bible.  In  this,  of  course,  I  concurred 
because  of  the  promise  which  has  been  made  manifest  in  the  life 
of  this  man  when  he  prayed  to  receive  a  testimony  of  its  truthful- 
ness. 

And  I  recall  also  the  experience  of  a  retired  Methodist  minister, 
who.  upon  hearing  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  proclaimed  by 
humble  missionaries  received  a  rejuvenation  of  faith,  of  health  even, 
in  the  message  which  had  come  to  him.  It  came  into'  his  conscious- 
ness that  God  had  truly  spoken  from  the  heavens,  revealed  anew 
divine  truths  which  would  make  men  and  women  happy  and  bring 
to  them  the  assurance,  the  comfort,  the  strength,  which  can  come 
only  through  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  And  then  this  man's 
great  joy  and  happiness  in  becoming  a  member  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  testifying  to  his  many  friends 
and  former  parishioners  of  the  happiness  and  the  worth  which  might 
be  found  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  it  has  been  proclaimed  and 
is  being  proclaimed  today  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

I  rejoice  with  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  in  the  strength  which 
is  found  in  this  Church,  in  the  power  which  is  present  in  the  stakes, 
in  the  missions  of  this  great  organization.  I  know  beyond  the  shadow 
of  a  doubt  that  this  work  is  of  God.  Truly  he  has  spoken  from  the 
heavens  and  committed  divine  authority  to  his  people  here  upon  the 
earth,  and  we  who  have  this  power  may  go  forth  in  the  majesty  of  our 
calling  to  proclaim  these  great  truths  to  the  world,  give  to  them 
the  happiness  and  joy  which  is  available  through  the  gospel  message. 

I  should  like  to  say,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  owe  a  great 
debt  of  gratitude  to  my  Heavenly  Father  for  the  things  which  have 
come  into  my  life  as  a  result  of  this  missionary  service,  and  I  feel 
grateful  indeed  to  his  servants  here  upon  the  earth.  I  believe  that 
you  and  I  will  be  the  most  happy  people  upon  the  earth  if  we  can  get 
into  our  consciousness  the  fact  that  there  is  no  safety  in  this  life 
except  through  following  the  counsel  of  those  men  who  constitute 
the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church. 

It  has  been  my  blessing  and  privilege  to  indoctrinate  this  into 
the  hearts  of  the  missionaries  of  the  Eastern  States  and  I  hope  the 
membership  of  that  mission,  and  in  this  there  has  been  a  great  privi- 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

lege,  for  it  is  my  conviction  that  there  is  only  stability  in  life,  both 
temporal  and  spiritual,  by  following  the  counsel  of  those  men  who 
have  the  divine  authority  to  speak  in  the  name  of  God. 

I  pray  the  Lord's  blessings  to  be  with  each  one  of  us,  that  we 
shall  remain  true  and  faithful  to  the  covenants  which  we  have  made 
with  our  Father  in  heaven,  that  we  shall  always  recognize  the  bless- 
ings which  may  come  to  us  by  true  faith  and  devotion  to  this  great 
cause. 

I  bear  testimony  to  the  truthfulness  of  this  work,  knowing  full 
well  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  indeed  the  Savior  and  Redeemer 
of  the  world,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God,  and  that  his 
successors  in  like  manner,  with  President  George  Albert  Smith,  and 
I  leave  this  testimony  with  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  A.  REED  HALVERSON 

Former  President  o/  New  Zealand  Mission 

Tena  koutou  e  nga  pononga  a  te  Atua  me  nga  hunga  tapu  kua 
huihui  mat  nei. 

Such  would  be  the  greetings  of  any  one  of  our  good  Maori 
brethren  and  sisters  who  may  be  called  to  speak  in  New  Zealand. 
In  other  words,  greetings  to  the  servants  of  the  Lord  and  to  the 
saints  who  have  gathered  here. 

It  is  a  wonderful  thing  to  be  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  am  truly  grateful  for  and  proud  of 
my  membership  in  this  Church.  I  am  thankful  for  the  privilege 
I  have  of  again  attending  the  General  Conference  of  the  Church. 
It  helps  satisfy  a  hunger  for  such  a  gathering  and  such  inspiration 
that  we  have  experienced  during  the  past  few  years,  the  past  four 
years,  while  it  has  not  been  our  privilege  to  be  here.  That  hunger 
has  only  been  supplied  in  part  in  our  hui  tau,  our  annual  conference 
of  the  Church  in  New  Zealand,  where  we  have  three  or  four  thou- 
sand of  our  good  people  meet  together,  not  in  a  building  of  this 
kind,  not  under  such  favorable  conditions,  but  rather  under  the 
covers  of  a  large  marquee;  it  almost  takes  us  back  to  the  days  of 
the  children  of  Israel  when  they  met  in  the  wilderness  where  they 
carried  their  tabernacle  with  them,  and  there  in  those  large  tents 
we  do  receive  inspiration,  we  do  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the  Lord, 
and  we  are  grateful  for  our  membership  and  our  connection  with 
this  Church. 

I  am  truly  grateful  for  the  privilege  I  have  at  this  time  of 
being  in  the  presence  of  the  General  Authorities.  With  all  my 
heart  I  sustain  them  as  servants  of  God.  I  am  thankful  for  them, 
I  am  thankful  for  their  faith  in  me  that  prompted  them  to  call  me 
and  my  good  wife  into  the  New  Zealand  mission.  I  am  thankful 
for  what  they  have  done  for  that  mission  since  that  time. 


ELDER  A.  REED  HALVERSON  107 


It  was  a  wonderful  thrill  to  all  the  missionaries  and  the  saints 
in  New  Zealand  when  we  received  word  that  our  fine  President 
Matthew  Cowley,  had  been  sustained  as  a  member  of  the  Quorum 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles;  and  a  little  later  when  we  received  the 
news  that  he  had  been  appointed  president  of  the  Pacific  Missions, 
another  thrill  came  to  us,  and  it  has  afforded  the  saints  of  New 
Zealand  an  opportunity  for  closer  contact  with  the  General  Authori- 
ties of  the  Church. 

Do  you  know  that  until  the  appointment  of  President  Cowley 
as  our  Pacific  Mission  president,  that  good  mission  and  others  in 
the  South  Pacific  had  had  but  two  visits  of  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church,  once  when  President  McKay  and  President  Cannon 
made  their  visit  in  the  year  1921,  and  the  other  the  visit  of  President 
Smith  and  President  Hardy  in  1938.  We,  undoubtedly,  as  you 
will  realize,  miss  that  contact  which  you  people  enjoy,  and  so  we 
are  thankful  for  this  closer  contact  that  we  have. 

I  appreciate  the  privilege  which  has  come  to  me  to  labor  among 
those  people  in  the  land  of  New  Zealand — those  good  Europeans 
who  reside  there,  as  well  as  that  remnant  of  the  house  of  Israel  who 
were  led  away  to  that  far-off  land,  fulfilling  the  predictions  of  the 
scriptures  of  the  prophets  of  old  wherein  they  said  that  the  house 
of  Israel  should  be  scattered  even  to  the  ends  of  the  earth,  to  the 
islands  of  the  sea,  and  there  they  should  worship  other  gods,  even 
gods  of  stone  and  of  wood.  Those  were  the  gods  of  the  Maori 
people  until  just  a  little  over  a  hundred  years  ago.  But  it  is  a 
testimony  to  us  that  they  are  of  the  house  of  Israel  since  in  this  last 
hundred  years  that  the  gospel  has  been  preached  there,  even  though 
it  has  "not  always  been  preached  with  the  understanding  that  we 
have  of  it,  they  recognized  the  story  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and 
this  day  they  are  all  Christians.  And  even  though  our  teaching 
to  those  people  did  not  begin  until  they  had  all  become  members 
of  other  churches,  still  we  have  now  more  than  ten  thousand  of 
those  good  people  in  our  Church. 

In  my  experiences  in  the  mission  I  have  learned  many  things 
and  some  things  seemed  rather  peculiar  to  me  as  they  do  to  all 
missionaries.  One  of  our  good  missionaries  made  the  remark  one  day 
after  he  had  been  out  tracting  for  two  or  three  days  with  one  of  the 
experienced  elders,  "I  can't  understand  why  the  people  that  we 
visit  can't  accept  the  teachings  in  the  way  that  my  companion  gives 
them.  They  are  so  plain,  so  natural,  so  simple,  that  anybody  who 
really  wants  to  could  understand  that  they  are  the  truth." 

Well,  it  seems  that  way  to  all  of  us.  It  is  just  natural  to  us 
but  the  Lord  gives  unto  us  his  revelations  from  time  to  time  to 
guide  us.  We  are  the  children  of  God.  He  would  not  put  us  down 
here  without  any  possibility  of  knowing  what  to  do,  but  from  time 
to  time  while  men  have  been  upon  the  earth,  as  teachings  of  the 
gospel  have  become  changed  and  different,  he  has  enlightened  his 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

prophets  and  given  them  the  commandment  to  go  teach  the  gospel 
to  all  the  world.  And  though  they  have  been  persecuted,  though 
they  have  been  put  to  death,  still  the  word  of  the  gospel  has  gone  on. 
To  us  it  is  the  natural  thing,  while  to  the  world  it  seems  ridiculous 
when  we  say  that  God  the  Father  and  his  Son  appeared  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  To  us  it  seems  only  natural  when  angels 
come  with  knowledge  and  inspiration.    To  the  world  it  is  false. 

I  know  that  this  gospel  is  true.  I  know  that  these  men  who 
lead  this  Church  are  indeed  servants  of  God,  that  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  was  raised  up  in  this  day  to  bring  God's  teachings 
to  the  earth,  and  I  know  that  he  was  directed  by  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  and  by  others,  who  visited  him. 

It  is  a  wonderful  thing,  brothers  and  sisters,  to  know  that  not 
only  once  did  Jesus  Christ  visit  the  earth  in  this  day,  but  several 
times,  that  not  only  one  angel,  but  several  have  come  with  messages 
and  with  inspiration  and  with  power  and  have  given  that  power 
and  that  inspiration  and  those  messages  to  men  here  upon  this 
earth. 

I  am  thankful  for  the  missionary  system  of  this  Church.  To 
me  it  is  a  wonderful  thing.  You  and  I  are  here  as  a  result  of  that 
missionary  system.  I  am  truly  grateful  for  the  humble  missionaries 
that  went  into  that  far-off  land  of  Scandinavia  and  gathered  my 
ancestors  from  that  land,  and  when  I  think  of  my  own  cousins  in 
the  land  of  New  Zealand  who  are  good  people  but  understand  not 
the  gospel,  I  am  that  much  more  thankful  for  missionaries  that  con- 
verted my  father  and  my  grandparents  on  my  mother's  side. 

I  am  thankful  to  you  people  that  you,  through  your  work  in 
this  day  and  age  are  showing  your  gratefulness  to  missionaries 
in  that  you  have  sent  your  sons  and  your  daughters  into  the  mission 
field.  The  one  hundred  and  twenty  young  men  and  women  that  we 
have  in  the  New  Zealand  Mission  at  the  present  time  are  truly  an 
inspiration  to  me  and  to  all  who  meet  them  and  try  to  understand 
them  in  their  work. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  it  is  a  wonderful  thing  to  come  back  and 
witness  the  activities  of  the  Church  in  Zion.  May  God  bless  us 
and  help  us  to  realize  the  importance  of  the  things  that  we  are 
blessed  with  from  time  to  time.  May  we  go  on  and  work  day  by 
day  in  fulfillment  of  our  purposes  here  and  appreciate  the  fact  that 
we  are  living  in  a  day  and  age  when  God  is  giving  us  inspiration 
through  his  chosen  Authorities  here  upon  this  earth,  I  humbly  pray, 
and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Savior.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

The  members  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  will  sing  "Lord,  Hear 
Our  Prayer,"  and  the  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President 
James  H.  Ockey  of  the  Juab  Stake,  Nephi,  Utah,  after  which  this 
Conference  will  be  adjourned  until  7:00  o'clock  this  evening,  when 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


109 


in  accordance  with  the  custom  of  the  Church,  the  general  meeting 
of  the  priesthood  of  the  Church  will  be  held.  Only  the  priesthood 
are  invited  to  be  present.  It  takes  every  inch  of  space  to  hold  them, 
and  we  invite  those  who  do  not  hold  the  priesthood  not  to  take  that 
space.  Persons  not  holding  the  priesthood  will,  therefore,  please  not 
enter  the  building  at  that  time.   That  session  will  not  be  broadcast. 

The  session  at  10:00  o'clock  tomorrow  morning,  Sunday,  Oc- 
tober 3rd,  will  be  broadcast  over  the  various  stations  that  have  already 
been  announced. 

Because  the  regular  Tabernacle  Choir  broadcast  comes  from 
9:30  to  10:00  o'clock  tomorrow  morning,  those  desiring  to  attend 
the  broadcast  must  be  in  their  seats  in  this  building  by  9:20.  As  the 
Choir  may  be  rehearsing  during  the  time  the  audience  is  gathering, 
it  is  necessary  to  request  that  the  audience  come  in  and  take  their 
seats  quietly  and  refrain  from  making  any  disturbing  noise  of  any 
kind  during  the  broadcast. 

The  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast,  on  which  Elder  John  A.  Widt- 
soe  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  the  speaker,  will  begin  at 
8:30  a.m.  Those  desiring  to  attend  this  broadcast  must  be  in  their 
seats  by  8:20  a.m. 

The  regular  session  of  the  Conference  will  begin  at  10:00  a.m. 

I  am  sure  we  have  had  a  lovely  time,  and  now  after  the  singing 
of  the  Choir  and  the  benediction,  we  will  be  prepared  to  go  to  our 
homes  grateful  to  the  Lord  not  only  that  we  live  in  the  world  but  that 
we  live  in  the  Church  and  enjoy  the  Lord's  blessings. 

Singing  by  the  Choir,  "Lord,  Hear  Our  Prayer." 
President  James  H.  Ockey,  of  the  Juab  Stake,  offered  the  ben- 
ediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10:00  a.m.,  Sunday,  October  3. 

THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 

The  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast  was  presented  Sunday  morn- 
ing, October  3,  from  8:30  to  9:00  over  radio  station  KSL  and  the 
Columbia  Broadcasting  System. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  direction  of  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall, furnished  the  music  for  the  service,  with  Dr.  Frank  W.  Asper 
at  the  organ.   Richard  L.  Evans  was  the  announcer. 

The  Choir  sang  a  scared  song:  "O  Loving  Saviour,"  and  follow- 
ing the  rendition  of  this  number  the  Choir  sang:  "Hallelujah,"  by 
Louis  Lewandowski. 


110  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Dag 

Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  was  the 
speaker,  his  subject  being  "Hunger  In  the  Midst  of  Plenty." 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Friends  of  the  Church  of  the  Air: 

Our  generation  of  men  has  secured  a  tremendous  command  over 
surrounding  things  and  forces.  Matter  and  energy  have  become  man's 
abject  servants.  His  mastery  of  the  physical  universe  has  reached 
heights  beyond  the  dreams  of  earlier  days.  Every  thinkable  material 
comfort  and  help,  including  the  conquest  of  most  diseases,  seems 
within  man's  reach.  Man  has  become  a  conquering  giant.  The 
Utopias  of  the  past,  the  dreams  of  ideal  places,  were  trivial  in  ma- 
terial comforts  compared  with  our  present  luxurious  world. 

Hunger  in  the  Midst  of  Plenty 

Yet,  in  the  midst  of  such  plenty  there  is  hunger,  a  worldwide, 
gripping  hunger — a  hunger  for  simple  happiness,  culminating  in 
peace.  The  nature  of  man  is  not  satisfied  with  the  multiplicity  of 
inventions  in  our  mechanical-scientific  age.  Fear  and  unhappiness 
are  becoming  the  world's  masters.  The  very  discoveries  that  have 
made  possible  the  world's  physical  comforts,  have,  in  distorted  use, 
produced  unspeakably  horrible  instruments  of  destruction.  Peace 
has  been  replaced  by  war,  bloody  and  beastly;  and,  daily,  war  clouds 
rise  in  the  horizon.  As  a  result,  fear,  the  chief  torturing  implement 
of  evil  stalks  the  halls  of  government,  stands  at  household  doors,  and 
tears  at  every  human  heart.  Tomorrow  is  no  longer  a  hope;  it  has 
become  a  thredt.   The  world  is  sick. 

It  requires  neither  sage  nor  "elder  statesmen"  in  church  or  state- 
craft to  tell  us  why  this  condition  exists.  The  marvelous  gifts  of 
the  day  are  material  only.  Such  physical  bounties  do  not  produre 
happiness;  they  only  contribute  to  our  ease.  Material  gifts,  used 
throughout  the  ages  in  the  hope  of  satisfying  man's  hunger,  have  al- 
ways been  found  wanting.  If  true  happiness  could  be  found  in  ma- 
terial things,  humanity's  joy  should  now  exceed  any  ever  known. 

The  Cure  for  the  World's  Dilemma 

To  cure  the  world's  present  distemper,  we  must  turn  for  help 
to  the  larger  domain,  of  which  the  material  is  but  a  faint  reflection. 
Out  of  the  unseen  world  comes  a  body  of  laws,  the  so-called  moral 
laws,  among  them  the  Ten  Commandments  and  the  Beatitudes.  These 
laws  are  as  real  and  comprehensible  as  any  physical  law.  If  a  wire 
carrying  an  electric  current  is  placed  above  a  mariner's  compass,  the 
needle  swings  sharply  to  one  side,  and  remains  there.   Just  so,  obedi- 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE  111 

ence  to  any  of  the  moral  laws  will  determine  and  hold  the  actions  of 
the  man  under  that  law.  The  acceptance  or  rejection  of  these  moral 
or  spiritual  laws,  higher  laws  of  God,  determine  in  fact  the  behavior 
and  conduct  of  every  human  being.  They  determine  the  use  a  man 
makes  of  any  gift.  It  is  the  misuse  of  physical  laws,  in  defiance  of 
higher  laws,  which  has  brought  into  being  cannons,  bombs,  torpedoes, 
and  other  devices  for  the  destruction  of  human  life.  The  moral 
laws,  if  sincerely  and  properly  used,  give  power  to  solve  life's  pro- 
blems. Above  all  else,  conformity  to  them  gives  men  conquest  over 
themselves.  They  then  dare  to  do  right.  In  short,  conformity  to 
the  laws  that  flow  from  the  unseen  world  where  God  dwells,  their 
acceptance  in  spirit  and  in  deed,  is  the  cure  for  the  world's  dilemma. 
True,  it  is  an  ancient  remedy,  but  is  certain  to  cure  the  soul's  anxiety. 

But,  as  a  nation,  and  as  a  world,  we  are  largely  ignoring  these 
laws  of  well-being.  We  have  wandered  away  from  the  practices  that 
form  the  foundation  of  the  happy  life.  We  must  not  shy  away  from 
the  knowledge  of  existing  conditions. 

Happiness  Begins  With  Health 

For  example:  Happiness  begins  with  the  health  of  the  human 
body,  fashioned  in  the  image  of  God.  Yet  our  bodies  are  held,  today, 
perhaps  often  ignorantly,  in  utter  disregard.  Not  only  are  the  general 
laws  of  health  in  contempt;  but  at  no  other  time  in  our  country  have 
nerve-whipping,  destructive  substances  been  used  by  the  people  so 
extensively  and  greatly.  For  this  surrender  to  unnatural  appetites 
we  are  paying  a  terrible  price  in  illness  of  body  and  mind.  It  is  not 
conceivable  that  whiskey  and  vodka  are  reasonable  preparations  for 
the  wise  consideration  of  matters  of  state — so  urgently  needed  today. 

A  List  of  Our  Sins 

The  marriage  covenant,  the  basis  of  a  sound  society,  is  flagrantly 
forgotten.  The  mounting  divorce  rate  has  become  a  national  disgrace. 
Thereby  the  very  foundations  of  our  nation  are  undermined.  Im- 
morality, with  its  unspeakable  slime  of  degradation,  is  reaping  its 
harvest. 

The  Sabbath  day,  ordained  by  God,  has  been  the  main  and  full 
day  of  pleasure.  In  the  mad  rush  for  wealth,  the  nation  will  not 
suffer  a  play-day  to  be  established  in  the  week.  Consequently,  not 
only  are  the  churches  empty,  but  men  no>  longer  take  time  to  com- 
mune with  God,  an  essential  requirement  of  the  happy  life.  We  are 
fast  growing  into  a  godless  nation. 

Likewise,  in  our  greedy  love  of  gold,  advantage  is  taken  of  our 
neighbor  whenever  legally  possible.  Our  own  advantage  is  our 
main  concern.  When  we  give,  it  is  because  it  helps  us.  That  is 
not  the  spirit  of  honesty.  We  stand  on  the  verge  of  becoming  a  dis- 
honest nation. 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

We  have  forgotten  the  practice  of  family  and  private  prayer. 
We  have  become  sufficient  unto  ourselves,  and  therefore  have  loosed 
the  tie  that  binds  us  to  God.  Thereby  we  are  allowing  evil  to  range 
freely  among  men,  and  in  horror.  We  have  lost  the  divine  protection 
and  sweet  peace  and  satisfactions  that  come  to  a  family  who  engage 
in  daily  prayer. 

The  list  of  our  sins  is  long — too  long  for  this  talk. 

Return  to  the  Spiritual  Fold 

We  know  that  to  correct  these  and  other  evils,  to  heal  our  sick 
world,  and  to  bring  happiness  to  hungry  hearts,  mankind  must  re- 
turn to  the  spiritual  fold,  and  become  worthy  citizens  of  the  moral 
kingdom.  But  how  is  it  to  be  done?  Churches  and  other  organiza- 
tions that  try  to  win  men  to  the  better  way  of  life  have  had  indifferent 
success.   They  have  been  able  to  reach  only  a  few. 

Can  we  not  hopefully  try  an  old  type  of  missionary  endeavor, 
one  which,  unfortunately,  has  fallen  into  disuse  in  matters  of  human 
welfare?  We  have  tried  other  ways  and  failed..  Why  not  try  this 
one? 

Let  each  follower  of  the  moral  law,  the  nation  over,  accept  the 
duty  of  being  his  neighbor's  keeper.  Let  him  assume  a  personal 
responsibility  in  this  matter  of  curing  a  sick  world.  Let  him  consti- 
tute himself  a  missionary  to  neighbors  and  friends,  to  teach  by  ex- 
ample and  word  of  mouth  the  better  way  of  life,  to  persuade  them 
that  it  is  the  best  way. 

Determined  Righteousness  Needed 

Under  this  call  to  world  service,  all  men  of  good  will — in  busi- 
ness and  professions,  farmers  and  artisans,  in  and  out  of  organiza- 
tions— would  set  out  with  courage,  emphasis,  and  steady  faith  to 
talk  about  and  teach  the  eternal  plan  for  human  joy,  and  the  stern 
necessity  of  victory  over  self,  if  the  world's  sickness  is  to  be  cured. 

This  could  be  made  a  mass  movement  of  national  and  inter- 
national scope.  It  would  flow  and  grow  from  centers,  such  as  the 
group  listening  in  today.  It  would  be  doubly  powerful  coming  out 
of  the  hearts  of  common  men.  It  would  be  a  help  to  church  and  other 
organizations  for  human  good.  It  would  be  a  mighty  deterrent  to 
evil,  for  Satan,  an  incarnate  coward,  flees  before  determined  right- 
eousness.   And  it  would  have  divine  backing. 

True,  such  a  campaign  would  need  some  sacrifice  of  time, 
strength,  and  money.  But  the  cause  is  the  greatest  on  earth.  Lesser 
causes  are  fiercely  vocal.  Millions  of  dollars  are  spent  annually  to 
advertise  a  brand  of  whiskey  or  cigarets.  Why  not  shout  the  way 
to  peace  from  the  housetops?  Publicity  and  repetition  need  not  be 
confined  to  the  material  aspects  of  life.  Our  spiritual  needs,  always 
battling  with  evil,  have  greater  rights.   It  could  be  made  the  greatest 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


113 


campaign  for  human  happiness  in  the  last  two  thousand  years.  It 
would  beggar  any  movement  for  human  good,  of  any  time. 

Consideration  of  Individual  Man 

Any  campaign  for  righteousness  must  consider  first  the  indi- 
vidual man.  As  he  is,  so  the  group  is.  He  is  the  one  who,  noting 
current  events,  is  either  hopeful  or  hopeless,  who  either  courageously 
tries  to  solve  for  himself  the  problems  of  the  day,  or  thinking  there 
is  no  escape  from  impending  events,  eats,  drinks,  and  is  merry.  By 
happy  individuals  the  happy  nation  is  built,  as  bricks  of  a  color  and 
shape  reveal  the  architect's  dream.  Mass  conversions  are  like  heaps 
of  bricks. 

Moreover,  we  must  teach  these  hungry  individuals  in  our  Chris- 
tian country  the  doctrines  of  Christ,  as  taught  by  him,  and  not  as 
conceived  and  interpreted  by  men.  Christ  spoke  as  man  to  man, 
to  common  men,  and  they  understood  him.  It  often  happens  that 
men  lose  the  spirit  of  a  doctrine  because  they  cannot  agree  on  the 
meaning  of  well-known  words.  There  is  no  saving  grace  in  such 
hair-splitting,  no  cure  of  the  soul's  hunger.  It  only  confuses  the  ordi- 
nary man.  We  must  speak  to  one  another  as  we  offer  Christ's  words, 
his  lucid  teachings,  to  solve  our  present  crisis,  in  simple,  understand- 
able language. 

Besides,  the  individual  man  asks  for  specific  directions.  Gen- 
eralizations serve  little.  When  we  talk  of  the  moral  law,  he  replies, 
which  one?  He  asks  what  in  the  nation  saps  our  strength?  What 
shall  I  do,  he  asks,  to  be  saved  from  the  world's  confusion?  In  answer 
to  such  questions  we  can  begin  with  the  issues  of  the  day  at  home, 
such  as  those  here  mentioned.  Acceptance  of  one  law  makes  it  easier 
to  yield  to  others. 

Solution  of  Worlds  Troubles 

There  are  then  two  principles  of  action  in  solving  the  world's 
troubles:  Every  man  must  be  his  brother's  keeper;  and  in  his  labor 
must  consider  individual  needs  first,  group  needs  last. 

We  live  in  a  land  of  plenty  in  material  things.  We  revel  in 
luxury.  Meanwhile,  the  blood  of  our  children  is  shed  over  the  earth, 
for  heaven  only  knows  what.  We  live  in  a  land  of  spiritual  famine. 
We  are  hungry  for  the  bread  that  feeds  the  spirit.  Because  of  our 
waywardness,  contention,  warfare,  and  other  evils  rob  us  of  the 
happiness  the  Lord  would  have  us  enjoy. 

However,  we  must  not  be  hopeless  of  the  future.  Repentance 
and  forgiveness  are  eternal  principles.  But  there  is  work  to  do. 
Each  one  of  us  must  change  his  own  life.  Each  one  of  us  must  be 
a  converter  of  others. 

May  the  Lord  of  heaven  help  us  so  to  build  that  there  will  no 
longer  be  hunger  in  the  land — in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


114  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  2  Second  Day 

The  Choir  then  sang  the  hymn:  "How  Firm  a  Foundation," 
followed  by  another  hymn,  "God  Is  Our  Refuge." 

CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

Preliminary  to  the  commencement  of  the  Sunday  morning 
session  of  the  General  Conference,  which  convened  at  10  o'clock 
a.m.,  the  regular  Sunday  morning  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ 
broadcast  was  presented  from  9:30  to  10:00. 

This  broadcast,  which  was  presented  through  the  courtesy 
and  facilities  of  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System's  coast-to- 
coast  network,  throughout  the  United  States,  was  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans  and  originated  with  Station  KSL, 
Salt  Lake  City.    It  was  as  follows: 

(Organ  began  playing  "As  the  Dew"  and  on  signal  the  organ 
and  choir  broke  into  "Gently  Raise,"  singing  words  to  end  of 
second  line,  and  humming  to  end  of  verse  for  announcer's  back- 
ground.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome  you  within  these  walls 
as  music  and  the  spoken  word  are  heard  again  from  the  Cross- 
roads of  the  West. 

From  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City  the  Columbia  Broad- 
casting System  and  its  affiliated  stations  bring  you  at  this  hour 
the  music  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ,  with  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall  conducting  the  Choir,  Frank  W.  Asper,  Tabernacle 
Organist,  and  the  spoken  word  was  by  Richard  Evans. 

We  open  today  with  a  chorus  by  A.  Archangelsky  written 
on  Psalm  55 — "Lend  Thine  ear  to  my  prayer  .  .  .  Fear  and  trem- 
bling have  come  over  me.   Help  me,  Lord,  to  conquer  over  danger." 

(Choir  sang  "Lend  Thine  Ear  To  My  Prayer" — Archangelsky 
— Wilhousky.) 

Announcer:  The  moving  theme  of  a  religious  march  by  Guil- 
mant  is  Dr.  Asper's  first  organ  offering. 

(Organ  presented  "Marche  Religieuse" — Guilmant.) 

Announcer:  We  turn  now  to  the  music  of  the  "Messiah"  to 
hear  the  Tabernacle  Choir  singing  a  sacred  song  on  a  New  Testa- 
ment text:  "His  yoke  is  easy;  his  burden  is  light."  (Adaptation 
of  Matthew  11:30) 

(Choir  sang  "His  Yoke  Is  Easy" — Handel.) 

Announcer:  People  who  write  plays  often  pull  themselves  out 
of  predicaments  by  the  use  of  "exit  lines."  With  a  good  exit 
line  an  actor  can  extricate  himself  from  the  most  difficult  dilemmas. 
But  the  need  for  exit  lines  is  by  no  means  confined  to  the  theatre. 
In  real  life  exit  lines  may  save  many  situations  also.  For  example 
we  could  often  use  one  for  the  person  who  has  time  to  waste,  and 
who  wants  to  waste  our  time  while  he  is  wasting  his — for  the 
person  who  supposes  that  his  leisure  is  everyone's  leisure.  But 
there  are  numerous  needs  for  exit  lines  in  more  serious  circum- 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST  115 


stances.  Often  young  people  are  faced  with  unpleasant  alter- 
natives, such  as  a  choice  between  their  principles  and  so-called 
popularity.  But  popularity  with  people  who  offer  only  this  alter- 
native isn't  ever  worth  the  price.  And  when  we  are  dealing 
with  people  who  won't  understand  any  other  language,  often  the 
only  adequate  exit  line  is  a  definite  and  determined  "No.!"  And  if 
an  emphatic  "No"  isn't  accepted,  exit  by  action  may  be  called 
for — a  determined  exit  without  lingering  or  looking  back.  Doing 
just  that  has  saved  many  a  man  from  many  a  mistake — -and 
Joseph  in  Egypt  was  one  of  them.  One  of  the  most  unforgettable 
exit  lines  of  all  time  is  the  one  that  terminated  the  temptation  of 
Jesus  the  Christ  when  "the  devil  .  .  .  showeth  him  all  the  kingdoms 
of  the  world,  .  .  .  and  saith  unto  him.  All  these  things  will  I  give 
thee,  if  thou  wilt  fall  down  and  worship  me.  Then  saith  Jesus 
unto  him,  Get  thee  hence,  Satan."  In  social  situations,  in  business 
bargaining,  and  in  many  other  matters,  all  of  us  meet  many  pro- 
posals. But  when  a  proposal  passes  the  limits  of  propriety  and 
principle,  then  it  is  time  for  an  exit.  There  isn't  enough  money 
in  the  world,  there  isn't  enough  popularity  or  social  prestige  to 
justify  anyone's  doing  anything  contrary  to  conscience  and  con- 
viction. Our  safety  and  self-respect  suggest  that  we  adopt  prin- 
ciples within  which  we  will  conduct  our  lives,  and  beyond  which 
we  will  not  be  moved — principles  by  which  we  can  immediately 
decide  what  will  be  our  final  answer — our  exit  line — to  any  pro- 
posal. .  "Let  men  decide  what  they  will  not  do,  and  they  will  be 
free  to  do  vigorously  what  they  ought  to  do." 

(Organ  presented  "Song  of  Gratitude" — Harold  K.  Marks.) 

Announcer:  And  now  from  Temple  Square  we  recall  the  stir- 
ring conviction  of  a  hymn  by  Daniel  C.  Roberts,  with  the  music 
of  George  W.  Warren:  "God  of  our  fathers,  whose  almighty 
hand  leads  forth  in  beauty  all  the  starry  band  of  shining  worlds 
in  splendor  through  the  skies,  our  grateful  songs  before  thy  throne 
arise.  Thy  love  divine  hath  led  us  in  the  past,  in  this  free  land  by 
Thee  our  lot  is  cast;  be  Thou  our  ruler,  guardian,  guide  and  stay, 
Thy  word  our  law,  Thy  paths  our  chosen  way." 

(Choir  sang  "God  of  Our  Fathers"— Warren. ) 

(Organ  presented,  "He  Died!  The  Great  Redeemer  Died." — 
George  Careless.) 

Announcer:  "...  I  know  that  my  Redeemer  liveth,  and  that 
he  shall  stand  at  the  latter-day  upon  the  earth."  (Job  19:25)  In 
the  quiet  conviction  of  this  immortal  utterance  from  Job,  we  close 
this  day  from  Temple  Square  with  the  closing  chorus  from  Handel's 
"Messiah":  "Worthy  is  the  Lamb  that  was  slain.  .  .  .  Blessing  and 
honor  and  glory  and  power  be  unto  him  ...  for  ever  and  ever." 

(Choir  sang  "Worthy  is  the  Lamb" — Handel.) 

Announcer:  We  leave  you  now  once  more  within  the  shadows 
of  the  everlasting  hills.  May  peace  be  with  you,  this  day — and 
always. 


116  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  2  Second  Day 

This  concludes  the  998th  presentation  continuing  the  20th 
year  of  this  broadcast  from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square,  brought  to  you  by  the  Columbia  network  and  its  affiliated 
stations,  originating  with  Radio  Station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducted  the  singing  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir.  Frank  W.  Asper  was  at  the  organ.  The  spoken  word 
was  by  Richard  Evans.  . 


SUNDAY  MORNING  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 
SESSION 

Conference  reconvened  at  10:00  a.m.,  Sunday,  October  3,  im- 
mediately following  the  conclusion  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
Organ  broadcast. 

The  great  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity;  the  Assembly 
Hall  just  south  of  the  Tabernacle  was  filled  with  people,  arrange- 
ments having  been  made  so  that  they  could  enjoy  the  services  by 
means  of  radio  broadcasting  and  television;  and  hundreds  who 
could  not  find  accommodation  in  the  Tabernacle  or  the  Assembly 
Hall,  assembled  upon  the  Tabernacle  grounds,  where  they  listened 
to  the  Conference  services  as  they  were  broadcast  from  the  Taber- 
nacle. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  presided  and  conducted  the  serv- 
ices at  this  session. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  was  present  and  furnished  the  Choir  sing- 
ing for  this  meeting. 

President  George  Albert  Smith; 

This  is  the  sixth  session  of  the  1 1 9th  Semi-Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  morning  all  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church,  except  Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  who 
is  convalescing  at  home  by  orders  of  his  doctor;  Elder  Alma  Sonne, 
who  is  in  Europe,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission;  and  Presi- 
dent S.  Dilworth  Young,  presiding  over  the  New  England  Mission. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  at 
Salt  Lake  City  and,  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the  follow- 
ing stations:  KDSH  at  Boise,  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KID  at  Idaho 
Falls,  KEYY  at  Pocatello,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at  Vernal, 
and  over  KTYL  at  Mesa  by  transcription. 

These  services  will  also  be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  over 
a  loud  speaking  system  and  by  television.  All  general  sessions  of 
the  Conference  will  be  heard  and  seen  in  the  Assembly  Hall  in  the 
same  way. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY  117 

Any  messages  and  calls  that  come  to  us  for  persons  supposed  to 
be  in  attendance  at  the  Conference  will  be  announced  at  the  dismissal 
of  this  meeting  over  the  loud-speaking  system  on  the  grounds.  Every- 
one would  do  well  to  listen  carefully  to  such  announcements. 

The  choir  singing  for  today's  sessions  of  the  Conference  will  be 
by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conduct- 
ing, and  with  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ  for  the  morning 
session  and  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ  for  the  afternoon 
session. 

We  will  begin  the  morning  services  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
and  congregation  singing:  "Praise  to  the  Man,"  Elder  Richard  P. 
Condie  directing. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  A.  Carlos  Mur- 
dock  of  the  Beaver  Stake,  Beaver,  Utah. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn:  "Praise 
to  the  Man." 

President  A.  Carlos  Murdock,  of  the  Beaver  Stake,  offered  the 
invocation. 

The  Choir  sang:  "The  King  of  Glory,"  Sister  Jessie  Evans 
Smith,  soloist. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  as  I  approach  this  solemn  duty,  I  sense 
fully  the  need  of  your  united  support,  and  particularly  the  sustain- 
ing influence  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

Importance  of  Environment 

It  is  my  purpose  this  morning  to  say  a  few  words  about  the 
effect  of  environment  upon  youth,  and  the  responsibility  of  adults 
to  make  home  and  civic  environment  a  contributing  factor  to  their 
right  living. 

The  following  is  pertinent  to  what  I  have  in  mind: 

It  is  the  age  that  forms  the  man,  not  the  man  that  forms  the  age.  Great 
minds  do  indeed  react  on  the  society  which  has  made  them  what  they 
are,  but  they  only  pay  with  interest  what  they  have  received.  (Macaulay.) 

So  also  is  this  ancient  proverb  applicable: 

If  there  is  righteousness  in  the  heart,  there  will  be  beauty  in  the 
character.  If  there  is  beauty  in  the  character,  there  will  be  harmony 
in  the  home.  If  there  is  harmony  in  the  home,  there  will  be  order  in 
society.  And  if  there  is  order  in  society,  there  will  be  peace  in  the 
world. 

From  the  pulpit  and  public  press,  even  in  homes  and  social 
circles,  we  hear  discouraging  comments  on  the  delinquency  of  youth. 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Dag 

If  there  is  concern  about  the  recalcitrance  of  boys  and  girls, 
this  generation  is  no  exception  to  those  which  have  preceded  it. 
Our  great-grandfathers  and  their  great-grandfathers  worried  about 
the  forwardness  and  recklessness  of  their  children,  and  the  bleak- 
ness of  their  future  just  as  we  do  today. 

Confidence  in  Young  People 

Speaking  generally,  I  have  confidence  in  our  young  people. 
This  confidence  springs  primarily  from  my  intimate  associations 
with  hundreds  of  returned  soldiers  and  others  who  have  gone  on 
missions,  partcularly  during  the  last  three  years.  While  our  young 
men  were  in  the  army,  most  of  them  (there  were  exceptions,  of 
course)  conducted  themselves  creditably.  They  met  as  regularly 
as  possible  for  sacred  service.  As  an  illustration:  During  the  war 
in  the  Pacific  when  the  conflict  was  at  its  height,  a  chaplain  one 
day  accosted  a  colonel,  saying,  "Are  you  going  to  conference  to- 
morrow?" "What  do  you  mean,  conference?"  answered  the  colonel. 
"The  Mormon  soldiers  in  New  Britain  are  holding  a  conference 
tomorrow." 

I  heard  that  same  colonel  say,  upon  his  return  from  the  army, 
"Those  soldiers  are  among  the  best  missionaries  that  the  Church  has 
ever  had." 

Many  of  these  young  men  saved  their  money  to  pay  the  ex- 
penses of  missions  which  they  are  now  filling  in  various  parts  of  the 
world,  some  of  them  in  lands  where  they  fought  as  soldiers.  One 
of  these,  as  others  of  his  comrades,  sent  his  savings  home,  request- 
ing his  mother  to  keep  them  to  pay  the  expenses  of  his  anticipated 
mission  after  his  discharge  from  the  army.  Then  he  added,  "If  I 
do  not  return,  use  my  savings  to  send  out  some  other  comrade  to 
preach. the  gospel."  He  did  not  return,  but  in  keeping  with  his 
desire,  his  parents  are  now  using  this  soldier's  savings  to  support 
another  youth  who  is  fulfilling  the  dead  soldier's  request. 

I  tell  you,  so  long  as  there  is  an  indication  of  that  spirit  among 
our  youth,  I  am  going  to  uphold  them  and  have  confidence  in  them. 

I  know  that  it  is  hardly  fair  to  judge  the  group  by  those  especial- 
ly selected  as  missionaries,  but  I  have  been  in  touch  with  other 
groups  whose  lives  tip  the  scales  against  delinquency.  Recently 
there  was  held  in  this  city  a  convention  of  one  of  the  national  col- 
lege fraternities.  For  dignity,  temperance,  brotherhood,  and  other 
commendable  virtues,  it  was  one  of  the  choicest  conventions  if  not 
the  choicest  convention  ever  held  by  such  an  organization,  and  that 
was  said  by  one  who  had  attended  fifty  of  them.  In  nearly  every 
detail,  it  was  planned  and  carried  out  by  our  local  youth. 

A  recent  outing  by  that  same  group,  one  hundred  twenty  strong, 
was  characterized  by  actions  most  creditable. 

That  there  is  a  threatening  increase  in  delinquency  in  our  com- 
munities, particularly  among  boys  and  girls  of  high-school  age,  is 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY  119 

all  too  apparent  to  anyone  who  will  open  his  eyes  to  see,  and  his 
ears  to  hear;  and  steps  should  be  taken  to  curtail  this  delinquency. 

Delinquency  of  Adults 

It  is  with  this  purpose  in  mind  that  I  refer  not  to  the  delinquency 
of  youth,  but  to  the  delinquency  of  adults. 

Youth  is  influenced  by  example  and  environment.  Dominating 
groups  exerting  this  influence  are  the  home,  the  church,  the  school, 
social  circles,  and  civic  conditions. 

There  are  too  many  delinquent  fathers  and  mothers.  Our 
homes  are  the  centers  that  determine  the  type  of  our  citizenry.  To 
dignify  home  and  parenthood  is  one  of  the  noblest  aims  of  human 
society.  The  greatest  responsibility  given  to  women  is  the  divine 
gift  to  be  a  mother.  She  thus  blessed,  who  has  health  and  opportun- 
ity, and  shirks  the  responsibility  for  social  prestige  and  pleasure, 
is  recreant  to  her  duty  as  wife  and  mother.  The  father,  particularly, 
if  he  be  a  member  of  the  Church  and  holds  the  priesthood,  who  fails  to 
set  a  proper  example  before  his  children  is  a  delinquent,  and  is  a 
contributor  to  child  delinquency.  • 

Need  of  Proper  Home  Environment 

Upon  the  responsibility  of  parents  to  have  proper  home  environ- 
ment, modern  revelation  is  most  explicit: 

And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents  have  children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of 
her  stakes  which  are  organized,  that  teach  them  not  to  understand  the 
doctrine  of  repentance,  faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  and  of 
baptism  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands, 
when  eight  years  old,  the  sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents. 

For  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  the  inhabitants  of  Zion,  or  in  any  of 
her  stakes  which  are  organized. 

And  their  children  shall  be  baptized  for  the  remission  of  their  sins 
when  eight  years  old,  and  receive  the  laying  on  of  the  hands. 

And  they  shall  also  teach  their  children  to  pray  and  to  walk  up- 
rightly before  the  Lord.  (D.  &  C.  68:25-28.) 

Quarreling  among  parents  and  children,  faultfinding,  backbit- 
ing, smoking  cigarets,  drinking  intoxicating  liquors,  using  profane 
language,  make  a  home  environment  that  contributes  to  delinquency. 
No  parent  can  consistently  teach  faith  in  Christ  who  profanes  the 
name  of  Deity.  Profanity  is  never  heard  in  the  well-ordered  home. 
Swearing  is  a  vice  that  bespeaks  a  low  standard  of  breeding.  Blasphe- 
mous exclamations  drive  out  all  spirit  of  reverence.  Irreverence  is 
always  a  mark  of  delinquency. 

Wrote  General  George  Washington  to  his  Continental 
soldiers: 

The  foolish  and  wicked  practice  of  profane  cursing  and  swearing 
is  a  vice  so  mean  and  low  that  every  person  of  sense  and  character  detests 
and  despises  it. 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Dag 

Profanity  is  a  vice  all  too  prevalent  in  America,  and  though 
we  say  it  with  embarrassment,  all  too  frequently  used  in  the  Church. 

The  great  Chinese  philosopher,  as  a  minister  of  crime,  is  re- 
ported to  have  set  free  a  son  who  had  offended  against  the  canon 
of  filial  behavior,  on  the  ground  that  the  father  who  had  so  ill-taught 
him  was  the  one  to  blame.    Said  he: 

When  superiors  fail  in  their  duty,  should  inferiors  die?  This  father 
never  taught  his  son  to  be  filial.  To  act  upon  this  charge  would  be  to 
kill  the  innocent. 

But  until  the  millennium  there  will  be  delinquent  parents  and 
delinquent  homes,  and  as  a  result  from  out  of  these  there  will  come 
children  inclined  to  delinquency. 

Duties  of  Church  and  School 

It  is  the  duty  of  the  Church  to  render  such  assistance  as  is 
possible.  First,  to  find  these  delinquents,  and  then  to  awaken  higher 
ideals  in  daily  living  and  to  inspire  faith  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

But  only  a  small  percentage  of  children  and  youth  ever  come  in 
eontact  with  the  church.  In  New  York  City  alone,  fifty  thousand 
children  are  unaffiliated  with  any  church.  A  potent  factor,  there- 
fore, in  character  development  is  the  public  school. 

To  these  democratic  institutions  come  children  from  all  kinds 
of  homes,  including  the  delinquent.  All  I  can  say  this  morning  is 
that  every  teacher  in  church  and  in  school  should  realize  that  he 
has  the  moral  as  well  as  the  assigned  responsibility  to  impress  upon 
his  students  the  true  value  of  the  highest  and  noblest  things  in  life. 

White  House  Conference  Report 

More  concern,  it  is  now  apparent,  should  be  given  to  the 
influences  outside  the  home,  the  church,  and  the  school.  One  of 
the  most  important  conferences  ever  held  in  this  country  was  the 
White  House  Conference  on  Child  Health  and  Protection  held 
during  President  Hoover's  administration.  Governor  George  Dern 
followed  the  matter  up  in  Utah.  As  a  result,  hundreds  of  progressive 
people,  forward-looking  citizens,  participated  in  the  Utah  State 
White  House  Conference,  and  considered  influences  that  affect  the 
child.    From  one  of  these  reports  I  quote  as  follows: 

The  decadence  of  the  old-type  home  with  its  wide  physical  arena  of 
family  life,  its  home  with  genius  industry,  its  concern  in  the  individual 
welfare  and  control  over  the  child,  yields  to  community  influences  which 
now  have  a  larger  part  in  the  life  of  the  child. 

With  the  great  masses  of  sensationalism  and  artificial  stimula- 
tion to  which  the  child  of  today  is  subjected  in  this  age  of  mechani- 
cal wonders,  it  is  of  the  gravest  importance  that  society  realize 
that  it  is  only  in  the  example  of  sincere  living  upon  the  part  of  the 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


121 


individual  members  of  society  that  the  child  finds  a  dynamic  im- 
pulse for  his  own  wholesome  development. 

If  we  are  sincere  in  our  desire  to  reduce  this  delinquency  among 
youth,  let  us  look  to  ourselves  as  members  of  the  community  and  as 
leaders  and  officials  in  civic  circles.   I  continue  to  quote: 

A  nation  that  has  conquered  great  material  difficulties,  and  harnessed 
its  physical  powers  must  have'  some  more  effective  means  of  combating 
the  cynicism  of  its  youth — the  cynicism  born  of  widely  flaunted  dishonesty 
of  those  in  high  places,  insincerity  of  leadership,  and  gaudy  pageantry  of 
crime. 

We  have  been  termed  the  most  lawless  nation  in  the  world.  This  is 
not  merely  that  we  have  so  many  laws  that  any  one  enactment  loses 
sanctity.  This  is  not  merely  that  the  administration  of  criminal  law  has 
failed  to  keep  pace  with  our  urbanization.  This  is  not  merely  that  we 
feel  that  individual  rights  stand  above  the  law.  Deeper  than  all  this 
lies  a  form  of  lawlessness  that  pervades  our  whole  people,  that  infects 
our  children — the  tragic  result  of  our  unlimited  natural  resources,  the 
facility  of  their  wealth  and  the  apparent  omnipotence  of  our  machinery — 
the  heritage  in  our  generation  of  the  vicious  belief  that  somehow  more  can 
be  gotten  out  of  life  than  one  puts  into  it.  This  is  truly  in  its  deepest 
and  most  devastating  sense  a  belief  in  lawlessness. 

Delinquency  in  Hollywood 

Recently  a  delinquent  adult,  a  prominent  movie  actor,  was 
caught  with  others  in  an  illegal  "dive."  A  few  days  later,  a  columnist 
published  in  the  public  press,  the  following: 

I  don't  quite  savvy  all  this  sudden  bleeding  over  the  plight  of  a 
droopy-eyed  young  movie  actor  who  seems  to  have  been  caught  by  the 
cops  on  a  reefer  binge  with  a  couple  of  blondes.  For  one  thing,  it  is  not 
an  unusual  offense  in  Hollywood.  Dragging  the  weed  ranks  roughly 
in  the  film  colony  with  taking  benzedrine  as  a  substitute  for  sleep  and 
sobriety. 

I  ask  you,  I  ask  the  American  public,  to  consider,  what  effect 
such  comment  would  have  upon  young  people  who  are  already  in- 
clined to  yield  to  the  urge  of  new  experience.  More  shame  to  the 
adult  delinquent  than  to  the  youth! 

Wholesome  Community  Environment 

It  is  the  duty  of  every  law-abiding  citizen  to  see  to  it  that  our 
children  have  a  wholesome  community  environment  in  which  to  live 
during  their  tender  and  impressive  years. 

I  commend  those  officers  who  recently  broke  up  that  gambling 
den  out  here  in  our  county,  where  sixteen  adults — well,  more  than 
that — when  the  sheriff  and  his  deputy  caught  them  because  of  the 
activity  of  some  neighbors  .  .  .  sixteen  adults  who  were  guilty  of 
gambling  and  cock-fighting.  Eleven  were  caught,  arrested,  and 
fined  fifty  dollars  each.  The  officers  broke  it  up,  but  now  the 
gamblers  are  active  in  another  county,  I  am  informed. 

The  secret,  illegal  selling  of  bawdy  literature  and  obscene  pic- 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  u  Second  Dag 

tures,  the  drinking  of  intoxicating  liquors  in  public,  the  harboring  of 
gambling  devices,  and  particularly  of  "one-armed  bandits"  in 
"joints"  throughout  the  state,  and  I  speak  advisedly,  lure  the  youth 
into  an  atmosphere  of  criminality.  Sale  of  liquor  by  the  drink  would 
only  increase  the  danger  and  make  more  readily  accessible  to  young 
people  a  demoralizing  environment. 

I  am  throwing  out  these  two  thoughts  to  emphasize  the  need 
of  keeping  our  young  people,  as  far  as  possible,  in  a  wholesome  and 
not  a  demoralizing  environment. 

Gratitude  for  the  Church 
In  conclusion,  let  me  say: 

Let  us  here  and  now  express  gratitude  for  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  with  quorums  and  auxiliaries  specially  organized  to  combat 
these  evils.  It  was  established  by  divine  revelation  of  God  the 
Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ.  Its  glorious  mission  is  to  proclaim 
the  truth  of  the  restored  gospel;  to  uplift  society  that  people  may 
mingle  more  amicably  one  with  another;  to  create  in  our  communi- 
ties a  wholesome  environment  in  which  our  children  may  find  strength 
to  resist  temptation  and  encouragement  to  strive  for  cultural  and 
spiritual  attainment;  to  make  ineffective  the  influence  of  designing 
men  who  would  make  profit  out  of  their  fellows  who  are  fallen'  so 
low  as  to  be  slaves  to  their  appetites  and  passions — and  who  would 
fill  their  purses  through  the  weaknesses  of  addicts  to  gambling,  and 
the  pitiable  courtesan  outcasts.  The  gospel  is  a  rational  philosophy 
that  teaches  men  how  to  get  happiness  in  this  life,  and  exaltation  in 
the  life  to  come. 

The  mission  of  the  Church  is  to  establish  the  kingdom  of  God 
upon  the  earth,  which,  in  the  words  of  Thomas  Nixon  Carver,  is  not 
a  mystical  but  a  real  kingdom.  It  is  a  body  of  people  dominated  by 
ideals  of  productivity,  which  is  mutual  service.  We  do  not  strive 
for  the  things  which  satisfy  but  for  the  moment  and  then  leave  a 
bad  taste.  We  strive  for  the  things  which  build  us  up,  and  enable 
us  and  our  children  to  be  strong,  to  flourish,  and  to  conquer.  We 
strive  to  make  ourselves  worthy  to  receive  the  world  by  flitting  our- 
selves to  use  the  world  more  productively  than  others.  We  believe 
that  obedience  to  God  means  obedience  to  the  laws  of  nature,  which 
are  but  the  manifestations  of  his  will;  and  we  try  by  painstaking  study 
to  acquire  the  most  complete  and  exact  knowledge  of  that  will,  in 
order  that  we  may  conform  ourselves  to  it. 

We  believe  that  reverence  for  God  is  respect  for  these  laws,  that 
meekness  is  teachableness  and  willingness  to  learn  by  observation  and 
experience.  By  practicing  this  kind  of  meekness,  or  teachableness,  we 
believe  that  we  shall  inherit  the  earth;  whereas  the  unmeek,  the  unteach- 
able,  the  pigheaded,  who  are  dominated  by  pride  of  tradition,  shall  not. 
We  offer  you  hard  work,  frugal  fare,  severe  discipline,  but  a  share  in  the 
conquest  of  the  world  for  the  religion  of  the  productive  life. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  123 


God  help  us  to  discharge  our  responsibilities  to  our  youth  by 
making  an  environment  in  home,  in  school,  in  church,  and  in  our 
communities  that  will  be  uplifting,  wholesome,  faith-inspiring,  I 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

This  great  conference,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  has  been  a  most 
inspirational  occasion  for  all  of  us.  As  I  heard  one  good  sister  re- 
mark yesterday,  "It  is  out  df  this  world,"  and  I  say  to  you  that  all 
that  we  have  listened  to  is  out  of  this  world,  and  all  of  those  who 
spoke  to  us  have  been  animated  by  that  spirit  which  is  out  of  this 
world.  All  of  the  counsel  and  advice  that  we  have  listened  to  dur- 
ing this  great  conference  will  go  for  the  salvation  of  all  of  us  and  for 
the  eventual  salvation  of  this  world.  Then  at  some  future  date  it  will 
become  the  celestial  kingdom. 

This  morning  President  David  O.  McKay  has  delivered  a  most 
inspired  address  with  reference  to  youth  and  particularly  with  refer- 
ence to  those  who  are  responsible  for  youth,  and  I,  too,  desire  to 
express  a  few  thoughts  along  the  same  line  and  in  so  doing  I  may 
cross  the  path  of  President  David  O.  McKay,  but  I  don't  know  of 
anyone's  path  that  I  would  rather  follow  than  a  member  of  the  First 
Presidency. 

Youth  Program  of  the  Church 

This  past  week  has  been  devoted  by  some  of  the  great  youth 
organizations  to  the  problems  of  youth.  Some  of  you  have  listened  to 
the  broadcasts  that  have  come  from  youth  organizations.  All  that 
I  have  listened  to  and  all  that  I  have  read  -with  reference  to  this  youth 
movement  has  been  inspiring  and  is  worthy  of  commendation.  But 
in  thinking  of  youth  organizations  of  the  world,  the  question  came 
to  my  mind,  what  about  the  youth  program  of  the  restored  Church 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ?  As  I  pondered  over  that  question,  there 
came  to  my  mind  the  thought  that  the  youth  program  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  is  founded  upon  the  priesthood  of  Almighty  God. 
This  program  had  its  inception  on  May  1 5th,  1 829,  when  two  young 
men  who  were  translating  an  ancient  record  ran  across  a  statement 
that  had  to  do  with  baptism.  A  question  arose  in  their  minds,  so 
they  went  out  into  the  woods  and  upon  the  bank  of  a  beautiful 
river,  supplicated  God  that  they  might  have  the  right  interpretation 
of  that  ancient  scripture.  An  answer  was  given  in  the  form  of  a 
visitation  by  a  resurrected  being  who  introduced  himself  as  John 
the  Baptist,  and  in  the  following  words  conferred  upon  Joseph  Smith 
and  Oliver  Cowdery  the  Aaronic  Priesthood: 


124  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

Upon  you  my  fellow  servants,  in  the  name  of  Messiah  I  confer  the 
Priesthood  of  Aaron,  which  holds  the  keys  of  the  ministering  of  angels, 
and  of  the  gospel  of  repentance,  and  of  baptism  by  immersion  for  the 
remission  of  sins;  and  this  shall  never  be  taken  again  from  the  earth, 
until  the  sons  of  Levi  do  offer  again  an  offering  unto  the  Lord  in  righteous- 
ness.   (D.  &  C.  13.) 

The  cornerstone  of  the  youth  program  of  this  Church  is  the 
priesthood  of  God,  and  along  with  it  there  have  come  into  being  other 
organizations,  which  have  come  into  existence  through  the  inspira- 
tion and  revelation  of  the  Lord  to  the  leaders  of  Israel  to  organize 
the  great  Sunday  School,  the  M.I.A.,  and  the  Primary  organization. 
There  has  been  brought  into  being  the,  great  system  of  religious 
education  and  also  the  Latter-day  Saint  girls'  program.  This  pro- 
gram of  youth,  which  has  been  and  is  being  fostered  by  the  Church,  is 
one  which  comprehends  all  of  the  needs  of  youth  and  places  into  the 
hands  of  those  who  are  responsible  for  them,  instruments  whereby 
this  great  program  can  be  implemented  in  behalf  of  youth  to  guide 
and  direct  them  along  the  paths  of  faith,  virtue,  and  service  to 
others. 

Blessings  of  Aaronic  Priesthood 

When  the  priesthood  of  Aaron  was  first  given  to  the  tribe  of 
Levi,  it  was  entrusted  to  mature  men,  but  in  this  day  and  age  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  has  been  given  to  young  men  because  of  the 
fact  that  the  members  of  the  tribe  of  Levi  are  not  worthy  to  hold  that 
priesthood,  and  hence  the  heirs  of  Ephraim  are  carrying  on  the  work 
of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  today.  We  have  often  been  asked  the 
question,  "Why  is  it  that  the  priesthood  is  bestowed  upon  boys  at 
the  age  of  twelve?"  I  don't  know  whether  or  not  there  is  on  record 
any  definite  instructions  as  to  this,  but  I  can  say  it  was  a  master 
stroke  of  inspiration,  and  I  am  sure  that  when  the  leadership  of  this 
Church  decided  to  ordain  boys  at  the  age  of  twelve  it  came  at  the 
direction  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  I  know  of  no  time  in  the  age  of 
any  young  man  when  he  begins  to  form  impressions  and  habits  more 
readily  than  he  does  at  the  age  of  twelve,  and  in  this  great  program 
of  youth  we  commence  early.  These  boys  at  the  age  of  twelve,  when 
they  receive  the  priesthood  of  God,  must  be  sweet  and  clean  in  their 
bodies.  They  are  taught  the  law  of  chastity.  They  are  taught  that 
there  is  but  one  standard  of  virtue  in  this  Church,  both  for  young 
men  and  for  young  women.  They  are  taught  to  be  prayerful,  and 
they  are  taught  that  priesthood  means  service  and  that  where  there 
is  no  service,  and  a  man  or  a  boy  holds  the  priesthood,  it  is  of  little 
value  to  him  and  surely  the  Lord  God  will  hold  such  an  individual 
accountable  when  he  fails  to  use  this  divine  gift  of  authority  in  the 
service  of  the  Master  and  for  the  benefit  of  the  Lord's  children  here 
upon  the  earth.  Out  of  priesthood  service  he  is  taught  to  be  depend- 
able; he  evaluates  integrity  and  honesty  highly.  He  is  taught  some- 
thing about  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States.    He  is  taught 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  125 


that  the  document  came  to  us  from  the  Lord  through  the  instrumental- 
ity of  great  and  wise  men  who  were  raised  up  for  that  very  purpose. 
He  is  taught  that  in  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  there  is 
found  the  great  fundamental  principle  of  the  gospel,  namely  that  of 
free  agency.  And  so  with  these  noble  qualities  of  character  and  the 
assignments  that  come  to  him  from  time  to  time,  he  is  taught  in  a 
practical  way  the  principles  and  fundamentals  of  the  gospel  of  sal- 
vation. For  example,  the  deacon  is  assigned  to  go  out  and  collect 
the  contributions  of  the  people  to  the  end  that  those  who  are  in 
distress  might  have  assistance  and  relief.  He  is  also  taught  that  he 
should  participate  in  the  great  welfare  program,  for  out  of  these  two 
assignments  he  is  taught  what  pure  and  undefiled  religion  is,  namely, 
to  help  those  who  are  in  need,  the  aged,  the  widows,  and  the  orphans. 
I  am  sure  that  no  young  man  participates  in  these  assignments  but 
what  he  sees  the  blessings  that  will  come  to  him  and  to  others  be- 
cause of  his  willingness  to  serve. 

Duties  of  Deacons  and  Teachers 

The  deacon  has  the  privilege  of  assisting  in  the  administration 
of  the  sacrament,  and  no  young  man  could  listen  to  the  sacramental 
prayers  and  not  have  a  deep  and  lasting  impression  of  what  the 
mission  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  means  and  what  his  great  sacrifice 
on  the  cross  did  for  all  of  us.  The  office  of  the  ordained  teacher 
carries  great  responsibility.  At  the  age  of  fifteen  he  is  sent  out  with 
a  member  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  to  teach  Israel  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  In  other  religious  organizations  there 
would  be  some  question  with  reference  to  sending  out  a  young  man 
at  the  tender  age  of  fifteen  to  teach  adults  and  others  the  principles 
of  the  gospel.  I  bear  personal  testimony  to  you  that  some  of  the 
most  impressive  ward  teaching  that  I  have  ever  listened  to  has  fallen 
from  the  lips  of  these  young  servants  of  God,  and  we  must  never 
forget  that  they  have  a  promise,  a  promise  that  if  they  will  do  their 
duty,  they  will  enjoy  that  spirit  of  testimony,  namely  the  Holy  Ghost, 
which  will  magnify  them  before  the  families  that  they  are  called  upon 
to  visit.  These  young  men  have  other  assignments,  and  out  of  all 
of  them  there  comes  a  realization  that  they  are  engaged  in  the  work 
of  the  Lord. 

The  Office  of  Priest 

What  about  the  young  man  just  budding  into  manhood  who  is 
called  to  the  office  of  priest?  He  has  the  same  authority  and  the 
same  privilege  that  John  the  Baptist  had,  the  forerunner  of  Christ, 
in  that  it  is  his  high  privilege  and  honor  to  perform  the  ordinance 
of  baptism;  and  I  would  that  every  priest  in  this  Church  may  have 
that  opportunity  and  privilege,  for  out  of  it  comes  the  assurance  that 
he  holds  the  priesthood  of  Almighty  God. 

When  a  priest  steps  into  the  waters  of  baptism  and  brings  his 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

arm  to  the  square  and  repeats  the  baptismal  prayer,  it  impresses  him 
that  he  is  indeed  a  servant  of  God.  These  are  the  words  he  repeats: 
"Having  been  commissioned  of  Jesus  Christ,  I  baptize  you  in  the 
name  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Amen." 
A  short  prayer  but  a  prayer  wherein  he  declares  without  any  reserva- 
tions that  he  has  been  commissioned  of  Jesus  Christ  to  perform  the 
holy  ordinance  of  baptism. 

The  priest  has  the  right  of  administering  the  sacrament,  of  bless- 
ing the  water  and  the  bread;  and  no  young  man  can  repeat  these 
blessings  thoughtfully  and  prayerfully  but  what  it  strengthens  his 
testimony  that  the  lowly  Nazarene  who  was  crucified  upon  Calvary's 
Hill  was  the  true  and  the  Living  Son  of  God,  and  that  the  Redeemer 
appeared  in  the  meridian  of  time  to  another  young  man,  Joseph  Smith, 
who  gave  to  the  world  the  sweetest  story  ever  told,  since  the  cruci- 
fixion, that  He  lives.  There  is  no  doubt  but  what  these  experiences  in 
the  priesthood  affect  the  lives  of  these  young  men  to  the  end  that 
what  they  do,  or  think,  or  say,  shall  be  wholly  compatible  with  the 
priesthood  which  they  hold.  It  is  as  Brigham  Young  said,  if  these 
boys  have  been  guided  and  directed  and  taught  as  they  should  be, 
all  the  acts  they  perform  should  be  governed  by  the  guidance  of  the 
priesthood. 

Achievements  of  Aaronic  Priesthood 

In  1 947,  fifty-four  thousand  members  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood 
filled  1,403,461  assignments,  twenty-six  assignments  for  every  one 
of  these  young  men,  which  indicates  that  they  would  have  a  priest- 
hood assignment  every  two  weeks  throughout  the  year.  There  are 
some  of  these  young  men  who  are  not  taking  full  advantage  of  their 
priesthood  work,  which  would  indicate  that  some  members  of  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  filled  in  a  year  one  hundred  or  one  hundred  and 
fifty  of  these  assignments.  Out  of  the  filling  of  these  assignments 
there  comes  a  strengthening  of  their  testimony;  there  comes  that 
training  which  guides  them  into  the  paths  of  virtue,  of  being  prayer- 
ful and  dependable,  and  a  building  up  of  the  spiritual  side  of  their 
lives. 

I  could  go  on  indefinitely  pointing  out  to  you  the  achievements 
of  these  young  men.  When  we  speak  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  and 
this  great  youth  program  of  the  Church,  we  not  only  find  emphasis 
on  the  priesthood,  which  should  come  first,  but  we  find  the  great 
auxiliary  organizations  providing  a  program  that  inspires  them  and 
builds  them  up  in  their  faith  and  lays  the  foundation  for  a  testimony. 
We  are  grateful  to  the  great  Primary  organization  for  its  work  with 
boys  under  the  age  of  twelve,  and  giving  them  instructions  on  the 
priesthood  that  they  are  about  to  receive.  The  Sunday  School  organ- 
ization has  the  responsibility  of  teaching  young  men  the  gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  The  Y.M.M.I.A.  organization  provides  for 
them  a  fine  cultural  and  recreational  program,  and  in  addition  to 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHUN  127 


these  two,  it  has  fostered  a  great  program  for  boys,  namely,  scouting. 

The  Church  educational  system  affords  daily  religious  educa- 
tion. The  Latter-day  Saint  girls'  program  has  in  it  all  of  the  same 
factors  and  elements  that  we  have  for  the  young  men,  and  it  too  is 
proving  to  be  a  great  success. 

Fruits  of  Religious  Living 

As  we  think  of  these  assignments  and  priesthood  training  and 
all  that  the  auxiliary  organizations  offer  to  our  young  people,  we 
wonder  what  the  fruits  of  their  lives  will  be.  President  McKay  has 
indicated  to  you  already  what  the  fruits  are  in  some  instances.  It 
is  best  illustrated  in  the  words  of  the  Savior  found  in  Matthew: 

Ye  shall  know  them  by  their  fruits.  Do  men  gather  grapes  of 
thorns,  or  figs  of  thistles? 

Even  so  every  good  tree  bringeth  forth  good  fruit;  but  a  corrupt 
tree  bringeth  forth  evil  fruit.  .  .  . 

Wherefore  by  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them.   (Matt.  7:16-17, 

20.) 

What  are  the  fruits  of  the  priesthood?  Some  of  them  are  ser- 
vice, testimony,  virtue,  honesty,  prayerfulness,  dependability,  respect 
for  authority,  and  selection  of  the  proper  kind  of  associates.  As 
one  of  the  General  Authorities  it  has  been  my  high  privilege  to  inter- 
view many  of  these  young  people  for  missions.  Some  of  these  young 
men  have  spent  several  years  in  the  armed  forces  of  our  country, 
and  upon  returning  have  expressed  a  desire  to  fill  a  mission.  I  have 
invariably  asked  them  the  question:  "You  have  been  away  from 
home  now  for  three  or  four  years,  and  you  mean  to  say  that  you 
are  now  anxious  to  go  and  spend  two  more  years  on  a  mission?" 
And  without  hesitating  they  have  answered,  "Yes,  that's  the  thing 
I  would  like  to  do."  They  saved  their  money  while  in  the  armed 
forces,  to  the  end  that  it  might  be  used  in  preaching  the  word  of  God 
to  the  nations  of  the  earth. 

I  learned  something  else  about  them.  Some  of  them  expressed 
a  desire  to  return  to  the  lands  of  the  enemy  whose  guns  they  had 
faced.  To  me  that  manifested  the  true  spirit  of  the  Christ.  That 
spirit,  my  brethren,  that  the  Savior  taught  us  to  cultivate,  to  love 
God  and  love  our  neighbor  as  ourselves,  to  me  is  the  spirit  of  the 
peacemaker. 

Blessed  are  the  peacemakers:  for  they  shall  be  called  the  children 
of  God.  (Matt.  5:9.) 

Blessings  of  Priesthood  Service 

The  other  fruits  of  the  youth  program  of  the  Church  have  been 
manifested  in  other  ways.  In  the  fields  of  business  the  young  men, 
who  have  taken  full  advantage  of  all  of  their  priesthood  opportunities 
and  all  the  privileges  afforded  by  the  youth  program  of  the  Church, 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

have  received  responsible  positions  without  any  question  and  have 
been  successful. 

I  know  of  one  man  whose  life's  desire  was  living  the  gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  He  took  advantage  of  the  opportunities  of 
priesthood  service  in  his  boyhood  days,  and  not  long  ago  a  great 
company  was  searching  for  a  very  dependable  man  to  take  over  one 
of  its  institutions,  and  they  let  it  be  known  that  no  one  should  apply 
except  a  member  of  the  Church.  This  young  man  applied  and  re- 
ceived the  position  at  a  salary  of  ten  thousand  dollars  a  year.  Why 
was  that  company  particularly  anxious  to  have  a  member  of  this 
Church?  They  knew  that,  if  they  found  the  right  kind  of  member  of 
this  Church,  they  would  have  a  man  with  integrity  and  honesty, 
dependability,  and  one  who  would  be  an  example  to  those  who  work- 
ed with  him. 

There  are  some  of  our  young  men  who  become  indifferent  for 
one  reason  or  another,  but  I  want  to  say  that  if  we  have  done  our 
part,  if  we  have  planted  the  seeds  of  faith  in  their  hearts,  they  can- 
not get  too  far  away  from  the  Church. 

Letter  to  Bishop 

I  should  like  to  read  to  you  a  few  paragraphs  of  a  letter  written 
to  one  of  our  fine  bishops  by  one  of  these  boys  who  had  all  of  the 
advantages  of  the  youth  program  of  the  Church  and  then  became 
indifferent. 

The  teachings  a  fellow  receives  in  his  youth  have  a  great  effect 
upon  his  life  which  I  am  just  beginning  to  find  out  more  and  more  each 
day.  The  teachings  and  blessings  I  received  from  my  quorum  while  I 
was  a  teacher  and  a  priest  have  paid  off  so  numerously  that  I  could  not 
begin  to  quote  all  of  them.  Also  the  instructions  I  received  in  seminary 
have  been  of  great  value.  The  things  my  parents  taught  me  from  the 
time  I  could  sit  up  in  bed  have  also  made  me  what  I  am  today.  Now,  as 
I  stop  to  look  back  upon  all  of  the  instructions,  both  large  and  small,  that 
I  received  in  my  past  twenty-one  years,  I  have  more  in  the  wealth  of 
the  better  things  in  life  now  than  a  lot  of  people  have  in  a  lifetime. 

I  want  you  to  listen  to  this  statement  in  particular. 

I  am  a  cross  section  of  all  the  people  that  have  had  an  influence  on 
my  life  here  so  far.  From  here  on  out  I  am  on  my  own,  and  it  has  taken 
me  two  years  of  married  life  to  find  it  out.  The  responsibilities  of  an 
L.D.S.  father  are  great,  and  I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  trust  that  he  has 
put  in  me  to  carry  out  such  responsibilities.  When  we  were  in  our 
priesthood  quorums  I  heard  a  lot  about  a  person's  being  spiritually  sick, 
and  I  always  wondered  what  it  was.  The  big  wonder  in  my  mind  is  now 
a  reality.  I  don't  wonder  what  it  is  now.  I  know.  It  has  been  said  that 
experience  is  the  best  teacher,  and  my  mother  always  said  there  would 
be  a  lot  of  things  I  would  learn  the  hard  way,  and  she  is  so  right.  To 
be  spiritually  sick  is  a  lost  feeling.  You  have  your  friends,  but  they 
seem  to  have  no  way  of  helping  you  no  matter  what  they  say  or  do. 
It  is  something  that  is  lost  from  inside,  and  the  only  way  you  can  get  it 
back  is  from  the  inside.  I  have  never  really  stepped  inside  an  L.D.S. 
chapel  for  the  past  two  years  with  an  attitude  of  real  worship  of  God, 
until  the  other  night  when  I  went  to  the  nurses'  graduation  at  the  Idaho 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


129 


Falls  L.D.S.  Tabernacle.  Elder  Moyle  spoke  that  night,  and  I  realized 
then  that  I  had  lost  a  very  valuable  gift  which  I  still  had  in  my  power 
to  regain  if  I  put  my  mind  to  it. 

Responsibility  to  Youth 

This  young  man  took  advantage  of  the  youth  program  of  the 
Church.  For  some  reason  he  became  indifferent,  but  as  a  result  of 
the  proper  kind  of  teaching  and  the  impression  it  made  upon  his  life 
when  he  heard  a  servant  of  God  preaching  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  there  was  a  ready  response  in  his  heart,  and  now  that 
young  man  is  trying  to  find  his  way  back,  I  was  particularly  im- 
pressed with  his  thought,  "I  am  a  cross  section  of  all  the  people  that 
have  had  an  influence  upon  my  life  here  so  far."  I  wonder  if  we 
who  are  responsible  for  the  youth  of  Israel  realize  that  they  are  a 
cross  section  of  what  we  teach  them,  not  only  by  precept  but  by  ex- 
ample. After  all,  every  man  or  woman,  whether  a  parent,  one  of  the 
lesser  priesthood  advisers,  or  a  bishop,  is  wholly  responsible  for  these 
young  people.  As  one  said.  "We  stand  in  the  docket  with  every 
lost  boy  and  girl.  Have  we  a  self  that  is  worth  putting  into  a  boy?" 
That  is  the  question,  and  should  we  not  examine  our  inner  selves 
to  determine  whether  or  not  we  have  within  us  the  qualities  of  char- 
acter which  should  become  a  part  of  the  character  of  every  boy  and 
girl  to  make  them  the  kind  of  men  and  women  that  God  wants  them 
to  be? 

Out  of  youth  there  will  come  in  thought  and  in  deed  the  things 
that  you  and  I  have  taught  them  over  the  years.    If  we  sow  the  right 
.kind  of  seed,  it  will  logically  follow  that  the  right  kind  of  fruit  will 
come  forth. 

May  God  bless  all  of  us  who  have  this  high  and  glorious  privi- 
lege of  laboring  with  youth,  that  out  of  our  testimonies,  out  of  our 
teathings,  and  above  all,  out  of  our  examples,  it  will  be  as  Brigham 
Young  declared: 

An  individual  who  holds  a  share  in  the  priesthood,  and  continues 
faithful  to  his  calling,  who  delights  himself  continually  in  doing  the 
things  God  requires  at  his  hands,  and  continues  through  life  in  the  per- 
formance of  every  duty  will  secure  to  himself  not  only  the  privilege  of 
receiving,  but  the  knowledge  how  to  receive  the  things  of  God,  that 
he  may  know  the  mind  of  God  continually;  and  he  will  be  enabled  to 
discern  between  right  and  wrong,  between  the  things  of  God  and  the 
things  that  are  not  of  God.  And  the  priesthood — the  spirit  that  is  with- 
in him,  will  continue  to  increase  until  it  becomes  like  a  fountain  of 
living  water;  until  it  is  like  the  tree  of  life;  until  it  is  one  continued  source 
of  intelligence  and  instruction  to  that  individual. 

I  humbly  pray  for  all  of  these  blessings  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn:  "For  the  Strength 
of  the  Hills,"  Elder  Richard  P.  Condie  directing. 


130  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

It  is  a  blessing  to  have  such  a  fine  demonstration  as  was  just 
now  given  by  the  choir  and  their  leader.  When  a  man  is  left  with- 
out accompaniment,  it  is  important  that  he  does  get  the  right  pitch, 
and  then  how  glorious  it  is  for  one  to  feel  when  one  starts  to  do  his 
best,  there  comes  the  strength  of  a  great  organ. 

I  do  humbly  pray  that  the  Lord  will  be  with  me  and  bless  me. 

Need  of  Love  and  Understanding 

I  recently  had  the  pleasure  of  filling  a  number  of  assignments  in 
the  East,  and  I  am  deeply  impressed  with  one  or  two  simple,  yet  I  feel, 
great  needs.  I  feel  sincerely  that  among  us,  as  well  as  among  other 
people  we  need  greater  understanding  and  love  of  all  people. 

I  once  had  the  privilege  of  filling  an  assignment  with  President 
Anthony  W.  Ivins.  One  of  the  things  that  was  on  the  itinerary  was 
a  special  meeting  with  a  brother  who  had  been  in  error.  When  we 
arrived  at  our  destination,  we  sat  with  the  president  of  the  stake. 
President  Ivins  began  to  talk  and  said:  "You  know,  I  was  coming 
here,  some  time  ago,  and  I  had  an  automobile  accident  and  'Charlie' 
was  the  man  that  stopped  to  help.  Many  other  cars  went  by,  but 
he  was  the  man  that  stopped  and  stayed  with  me  until  my  car  was 
running  again.  Do  you  remember  when  that  fire  broke  out  down 
in  the  valley?  The  first  man  there  was  Charlie,  and  I  remember  he 
was  the  last  man  to  leave.  And  a  few  days  later  when  they  started  _ 
subscriptions  to  help  build  that  home,  I  noticed  that  Charlie  was  on 
the  top  of  the  list." 

The  president  of  the  stake  now  broke  in  and  said:  "Say,  Presi- 
dent Ivins,  do  you  want  us  to  consider  this  man's  conduct?" 

"Well,  what  do  you  think  about  it?" 

No  more  was  said,  but  that  afternoon  in  the  congregation  of 
the  Saints  there  Charlie  was  sitting.  What  a  lovely  thing  really 
to  have  understanding  and  a  love  of  people. 

The  Russian  People 

I  want  to  say  a  word  about  the  Russian  people.  I  had  the  good 
fortune  when  I  was  studying  in  Berlin  to  live  for  about  a  year  with 
a  young  Russian.  He  was  a  great  fellow.  I  did  not  understand  him 
at  first,  but  he  came  home  one  day,  and  in  his  enthusiasm  he  grabbed 
me  and  said:  "Well,  let's  go  up  town.  I  sold  a  painting  today  for 
four  hundred  marks." 

And  we  went.  When  we  came  back,  he  placed  on  the  table 
what  remained  of  his  money,  and  he  said:  "I  want  to  share  this  with 
you." 

I  think  of  Tolstoy,  a  great  Russian,  who  paid  one  of  the  loveliest 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 


131 


compliments  to  the  life  of  Christ  and  his  teachings  that  I  have  ever 
read. 

I  was  never  so  deeply  impressed  in  the  great  temperance  move- 
ment as  when  I  heard  in  Berlin,  pne  night,  Gorky's  great  play,  Nights' 
Lodging,  an  appeal  for  temperance.  And  let  me  say  one  word  about 
this  play,  for  it  was  so  great  in  its  simplicity. 

The  scene  was  an  inn.  People  were  waiting  for  the  coming  of 
a  great  personality.  Finally  he  arrived,  and  they  applauded  him 
and  applauded  him  and  asked  him  to  stand  and  give  them  a  mes- 
sage. He  seemingly  had  done  this  many  times,  at  the  inn,  and  he 
sprang  upon  the  table.  He  had  been  drinking,  but  he  started  out 
with  his  lines.  His  eloquence  was  impressive;  then,  all  at  once  the 
actor's  mind  seemed  to  go;  his  memory  was  gone.  And  all  that  was 
done  to  tell  the  story  was  that  from  his  pocket  a  flask  fell  and  broke 
upon  the  floor.   Three  bells  tolled,  and  the  play  was  over. 

I  think  of  Shostakovich,  a  young  Russian  in  Petrograd,  (now 
Leningrad).  When  the  enemy  came,  he  bravely  fought,  and  after 
it  was  over  he  wrote  his  great  Seventh  Symphony  which  many  of 
the  world's  critics  have  said  is  one  of  the  greatest  realistic  movements 
in  all  the  world.  I  stood  with  thousands  of  young  men  in  southern 
California,  a  few  years  ago.  out  in  the  desert  when  the  Los  Angeles 
Symphony  Orchestra  played  this  great  symphony.  It  so  thrilled  these 
young  men  that  many  climbed  up  telephone  poles  that  they  might 
see  the  orchestra,  and  thousands  stood  for  an  hour  and  fifteen  min- 
utes with  rapt  attention  to  hear  this  great  music.  , 

Yes,  these  are  voices  of  the  Russian  pepple.  I  agree  that  in  the 
Kremlin  there  are  unworthy  men  to  represent  them.  The  papers  flood 
us  with  the  story,  but  some  day  out  on  the  plains  of  the  Ukraine, 
way  back  in  Siberia,  our  men  shall  be  knocking  at  doors  and  bring- 
ing the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

A  moment  ago  I  shook  hands  with  Elder  Anastasiou,  one  of 
our  faithful  members,  a  Russian  by  birth.  We  must  differentiate 
between  the  present  leaders  and  the  people.  We  must  love  all  peo- 
ples. That  is  one  of  the  high  purposes  of  the  priesthood  of  God  and 
the  message  of  our  Church  as  our  people  go  into  the  world  to  preach 
the  word  of  God. 

Stand  for  the  Right 

\  I  wish  to  make  one  other  appeal.  May  God  bless  us  that  we  may 
ever  know  the  right  and  courageously  stand  for  it.  One  personal 
application  of  this  principle!  I  had  the  pleasure  of  setting  apart 
a  member  of  the  presidency  of  the  Texas-Louisiana  Mission.  After 
the  ordinance  was  performed,  I  asked  the  brethren  if  they  had  some- 
thing they  would  like  to  say,  and  one  of  the  men,  one  of  the  leaders 
in  that  mission,  said:  "One  day  I  sat  in  a  barber  shop  chair,  waiting. 
The  barber  took  a  towel  as  was  his  custom  and  threw  it  over  my 
face,    I  reached  to  straighten  it.    I  felt  the  cigars  in  my  pocket.  I 


132  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  2  Second  Dag 

had  been  seriously  thinking  about  what  I  had  heard  about  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  and  that  moment  there  flooded  through  my  soul 
the  spirit  of  courage,  and  I  said:  'Let  this  be  the  day.'  "  And  he 
smoked  no  more.  To  know  what  is  right  and  courageously  stand 
for  it,  this  is  our  opportunity. 

I  met  just  last  week,  in  New  York,  a  splendid  Christian  gentle- 
man whom  I  have  known  through  the  years.  He  has  spoken  in  this 
Tabernacle,  Dan  Poling.  He  is  just  home  from  the  great  conference 
of  religious  leaders  at  Amsterdam,  Holland.    He  said: 

"You  know,  Kirkham,  to  summarize  that  whole  thing,  there 
are  two  words  that  stand  out,  as  I  have  also  visited  Berlin  and  other 
places  of  Europe.    These  two  words  are  'courage'  and  'calm.'." 

I  have  thought  a  great  deal  about  that,  "courage"  and  "calm." 

"Probably  the  outstanding  address,"  said  Dan  Poling,  "that 
was  made  at  that  conference  was  by  John  Foster  Dulles,  adviser  to 
Secretary  Marshall,  now  in  Paris." 

Let  me  read  you  just  a  few  words  of  Dulles  as  reported  by  Dan 
Poling,  as  given  to  the  religious  leaders  of  the  world: 

He  warned  that  if  their  religious  sessions  resulted  merely  in  theologi- 
cal definitions  it  would  be  a  colossal  failure.  He  spoke  for  peace  but 
with  words  of  dynamic  realism. 

Yes,  may  God  preserve  ever  among  us,  throughout  the  earth, 
men  who  know  the  right  and  have  the  courage  to  stand  for  it,  and 
may  ever  preserve  the  dignity  of  personality,  and  the  strength  of  the 
voice  of  the  people. 

Faith  in  God 

And  finally,  may  God  give  us  that  other  great  need,  faith  in  him. 

I  read  these  words  from  the  immortal  Lincoln,  which  I  treasure: 

i 

If  it  were  not  for  my  belief  in  an  overruling  Providence  it  would 
be  difficult  for  me,  in  the  midst  of  such  complications  of  affairs,  to  keep 
my  reason  in  its  seat,  but  I  am  confident  that  the  Almighty  has  his  plans  and 
will  work  them  out,  and  whether  we  see  it  or  not,  they  will  be  the  wisest 
and  the  best. 

In  closing  I  bear  my  testimony  to  the  divine  mission  of  the  Proph- 
et Joseph  Smith.  I  never  bear  this  testimony  but  what  I  feel  in  my 
heart  I  have  done  something  worthy  and  lovely.  God  bless  us  that 
we  may  love  all  peoples,  that  we  may  know  the  right,  then  courageous- 
ly stand  for  it,  and  may  we  continue  in  our  faith  in  'God  and  in  the 
divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Oscar  A.  Kirkham  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy,  following  him  will  be  Elder  Mark  E.  Peter- 
gen  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  following  Brother  Petersen  will 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN  133 


be  Elbert  R.  Curtis,  former  secretary  of  the  European  Mission,  former 
president  of  the  Western  States  Mission,  president  of  the  Sugar 
House  Stake  of  Zion  and  recently  sustained  as  general  superintend- 
ent of  the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association. 

ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  am  very  grateful,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  for  the  emphasis 
that  has  been  placed,  in  this  session  and  in  this  whole  conference, 
upon  the  youth  of  the  Church.  With  you  I  love  the  youth  with  all 
my  soul,  and  I  desire  with  all  my  heart  that  they  may  love  the  truth 
and  live  it  that  they  may  be  saved  here  in  the  earth.  There  is  noth- 
ing that  I  shall  ask  more  of  life  than  that  my  children  shall  love  the 
gospel  and  serve  the  Lord,  and  I  know  that  there  is  nothing  more  that 
you  will  ask  in  behalf  of  yourselves. 

Contrast  at  Funeral  Service 

Yesterday  as  I  listened  to  Elder  Bowen  in  his  masterful  way 
deliver  that  great  address  on  stability,  my  mind  went  to  a  funeral 
service  I  had  attended  just  previously.  In  that  service  I  saw  a  lovely 
Latter-day  Saint  family  bowed  down  in  grief.  One  of  their  mem- 
bers had  been  taken  away.  She  had  died  in  faith.  The  other  mem- 
bers of  the  family,  surrounding  that  casket,  also  were  filled  with 
faith  and  that  blow  of  death  which  had  struck  in  that  home  was 
greatly  softened  because  of  the  faith  that  those  people  had  the  knowl- 
edge and  the  testimony  concerning  immortality  and  what  the  gospel 
does  for  us.  I  saw  sitting  in  the  audience  a  direct  contrast  to  the  scene 
around  that  casket,  for  there  I  saw  two  men  who  had  once  been  faith- 
ful in  the  Church,  men  who  had  had  the  pearl  of  great  price  within 
their  own  hands,  and  then,  because  they  loved  worldliness  more  than 
they  loved  spirituality,  they  sold  their  birthright  for  a  mess  of  pottage. 
They  gave  up  their  membership  in  the  Church.  They  loved  dark- 
ness more  than  they  loved  light,  and  there  they  sat  looking  at  this 
faithful  family.  I  thought,  oh,  what  a  contrast!  Oh,  what  stability 
in  their  characters  might  have  done  for  them!  Oh,  if  they  could  have 
been  in  the  position  of  those  faithful  ones  who,  though  mourning  at 
the  passing  of  a  loved  one,  had  remained  true  and  faithful  and  stable 
in  the  faith.  Had  they  really  appreciated  their  membership  in  the 
Church? 

Our  main  object  in  life  is  to  be  good  Latter-day  Saints.  To  be 
good  Latter-day  Saints  means  that  we  work  out  our  salvation  here 
in  the  earth,  through  the  facilities  of  the  Church,  and  teach  our  chil- 
dren to  do  likewise.  In  order  to  obtain  that  objective  we  must  so 
plan  our  affairs  that  everything  we  do  in  life  will  bring  us  nearer 
that  goal.  We  must  choose  from  life  those  things  which  will  so 
affect  our  thoughts  and  habits  as  to  bring  us  nearer  the  Church 


134  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 

into  closer  harmony  with  it  and  its  program.  It  is  by  cooperating  with 
the  Church  and  its  program,  laboring  in  its  organizations  and  sus- 
taining its  institutions  that  we  work  out  our  salvation  here  in  the  earth. 

t 

The  Right  of  Choice 

As  we  choose  those  things  which  shall  become  a  part  of  our 
daily  lives,  let  us  remember  that  there  is  an  opposition  in  all  things. 
We  have  our  free  agency,  as  Elder  Moyle  taught  us.  We  have  our 
right  of  choice.  If  we  choose  certain  things  in  life,  they  will  drag 
us  down  and  tend  to  separate  us  from  close  affiliation  with  the  Church. 
Such  things  become  barriers  between  us  and  our  life's  great  objec- 
tive. On  the  other  hand,  if  we  choose  those  things  which  will  bring 
us  closer  to  the  Church,  we  will  live  the  gospel  better,  and  we  will 
be  better  Latter-day  Saints.  Every  day  we  must  make  decisions 
affecting  our  lives.  Some  of  those  decisions  may  seem  small,  but 
nevertheless  they  affect  our  thinking  and  either  bring  us  nearer  to 
God  or  help  to  remove  us  farther  away. 

Good  Reading  Habits 

v  One  of  the  men  who  have  influenced  my  life  for  good  and  to  whom 
I  owe  a  great  debt  of  gratitude  is  one  of  my  former  bishops,  John  C. 
Duncan  of  the  First  Ward  here  in  Salt  Lake  City.  I  love  that  man 
because  of  his  great  stability.  He  measures  up  to  what  Elder  Bowen 
was  talking  about  yesterday.  I  remember  his  teachings  so  well.  He 
always  has  been,  and  still  is,  a  great  advocate  of  good  reading  habits. 
He  has  always  told  us  that  what  we  read  helps  to  make  us  what  we 
are.  Naturally,  what  we  read  affects  our  thinking,  and  as  a  man 
thinketh  in  his  heart,  so  is  he.  Bishop  Duncan  has  always  taught 
us  that  we  should  read  the  periodicals  of  the  Church,  because  of  the 
wholesome  influence  those  periodicals  have  in  our  lives. 

There  are,  I  suppose,  about  a  quarter  of  a  million  Latter- 
day  Saint  homes.  Every  one  of  those  homes  would  be  a  better  home 
if  the  people  who  live  there  would  read  and  study  and  digest  the 
messages  that  are  carried  in  the  periodicals  of  the  Church.  There 
would  be  in  them  a  greater  respect  for  virtue,  better  observance  of 
the  high  standards  of  the  Church;  there  would  be  greater  love  and 
brotherhood;  there  would  be  more  spirituality. 

Every  one  of  you  desires  to  know  the  mind  of  the  leaders  of  the 
Church,  the  advice  of  the  First  Presidency.  We  do  not  often  come 
into  their  presence.  We  do  not  often  have  the  opportunity  of  hear- 
ing what  they  have  to  say.  But  every  one  of  you  may  feel  their  in- 
fluence and  receive  the  messages  they  have  to  give  if  you  will  take 
the  periodicals  of  the  Church  and  read  those  messages.  , 

The  Improvement  Era 

President  Smith  is  widely  loved.  When  he  goes  to  speak  in  a 
meetinghouse,  the  building  is  overflowing  with  people.    You  love 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN    ■  135 


him  because  of  his  love  for  humanity.  You  love  him  for  what  he 
tells  you  and  the  spirit  and  the  influence  he  carries  with  him.  But 
you  cannot  be  in  his  presence  every  day,  nor  every  month.  But  Presi- 
dent Smith  is  the  editor  of  The  Improvement  Era,  and  every  month 
there  is  an  editorial  from  him  in  The  Improvement  Era,  which 
would  do  you  and  your  family  much  good  if  you  would  read  it.  I 
wouldn't  for  anything  pass  by  that  Era  every  month.  I  love  it,  and 
I  love  the  messages  it  carries.  I  wouldn't  for  anything  miss  the 
editorials  that  appear  there  under  the  name  of  the  President  of  this 
Church.  I  always  get  great  stimulus  out  of  it.  I  am  a  better  man 
because  I  read  what  he  says,  because  I  love  the  influence  he  carries. 
Although  I  cannot  be  in  his  presence  every  day,  I  can  read  what  he 
has  said,  and  through  it  feel  his  influence. 

President  Smith  is  assisted  in  the  editorship  of  The  Improve- 
ment Era  by  Dr.  John  A.  Widtsoe  and  President  Richard  L.  Evans. 
These  men  are  a  great  inspiration  to  the  Church.  You  are  in  excellent 
company  when  you  are  in  their  presence,  and  if  you  want  to  have 
their  influence  about  you  and  the  children  in  your  home,  then  take 
The  Improvement  Era. 

I  do  not  know  what  the  exact  circulation  of  The  Improvement 
Era  is,  but  I  know  that  it  is  not  what  I  would  like  to  see  it.  I  think 
that  if  we  have  a  quarter  of  a  million  homes  in  this  Church  we  ought 
to  have  nearly  a  quarter  of  a  million  circulation  for  The  Improve- 
ment Era,  because  it  ought  to  be  in  every  home  for  the  good  it  will 
do  to  you  and  to  your  children. 

The  Relief  Society  Magazine 

I  feel  exactly  the  same  way  about  the  Relief  Society  Magazine.  I 
do  not  know  anywhere  where  you  can  find  a  magazine  that  will  do  you 
as  much  good,  as  a  woman  and  as  a  mother,  as  does  the  Relief  Society 
Magazine.  It  is  published  and  edited  by  women  of  great  faith  and 
great  spirituality  as  well  as  of  great  mentality.  Every  woman  in  this 
Church  should  have  the  Relief  Society  Magazine  and  read  it.  Wher- 
ever there  is  a  Latter-day  Saint  home,  there  should  be  the  Relief  So- 
ciety Magazine.  Wherever  there  is  a  Latter-day  Saint  mother,  there 
should  be  the  Relief  Society  Magazine. 

You  will  be  a  better  Latter-day  Saint,  and  you  will  be  a  better 
mother  if  you  will  take  the  Relief  Society  Magazine  in  your  home. 
Your  husband  and  your  children  likewise  will  be  benefited  by  it  be- 
cause it  does  carry  the  spirit  and  the  very  essence  of  the  gospel  of 
Christ  right  into  your  home. 

If  you  want  better  homes  such  as  President  McKay  has  been 
talking  about  here,  then  you  bring  into  your  home  these  magazines 
which  help  you  so.  I  again  say  that  I  believe  that  the  Relief  Society 
Magazine  should  be  in  every  home,  and  therefore  that  magazine 
also  should  have  a  circulation  in  excess  of  two  hundred  thousand. 


136  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  2  Second  Day 


The  Children's  Friend 

And  then,  we  are  also  interested  in  our  little  children.  Don't  you 
love  your  little  ones  and  don't  you  fast  and  pray  for  them,  and  don't 
you  hope  that  they  will  be  converted  to  the  gospel  of  Christ,  and  don't 
you  hope  that  they  will  grow  up  to  be  stalwart  members  of  this 
Church?  Then  place  in  their  hands  every  facility  that  you  can  to 
help  them  to  get  this  faith  deep  in  their  hearts  and  to  establish  habits 
and  customs  which  will  be  in  compliance  with  the  teachings  of  the 
Church.  Do  you  know  one  of  the  greatest  and  best  helps  you  can  get 
to  place  in  the  hands  of  your  children?  It  is  a  magazine  published  by 
the  Primary  Association  of  this  Church,  and  it  is  called  The  Children's 
Friend.  It  is  the  grandest,  by  all  odds  the  best,  child's  magazine,  that 
I  have  ever  seen  anywhere.  It  will  do  a  great  service  for  your  chil- 
dren. The  children  of  the  Church  love  it.  It  provides  wonderful 
things  with  which  to  build  faith  and  character.  It  also  gives  them 
entertainment.  It  gives  to  the  children  of  the  Church  that  something 
which  they  love  and  which  they  need. 

It  is  indeed  a  mistake  to  suppose  that  The  Children's  Friend  is 
only  to  go  into  the  homes  of  those  people  who  happen  to  be  workers 
in  the  Primary  Association.  Every  child  in  this  Church  is  entitled 
to  the  benefit  that  can  come  to  him  or  her  through  the  use  of  that 
wonderful  magazine.  If  you  love  your  children  and  if  you  desire 
to  build  faith  in  their  hearts  and  to  develop  character,  put  in  their 
hands  this  valuable  child's  magazine.  Whether  you  yourself  happen 
to  be  a  Primary  worker  or  not,  your  children  need  the  increased 
faith  and  strength  that  can  come  to  them  through  the  use  of  that 
magazine.  Take  it.  It  is  one  of  the  helps  that  God  has  given  to 
you  to  assist  you  in  teaching  and  rearing  your  children. 

Then  there  is  another  magazine,  The  Instructor  which  is  provided 
by  the  Sunday  School,  primarily  for  teachers.  It,  too,  is  designed 
to  build  faith  and  character  and  stability  here  in  the  Church. 

The  Deseret  News 

V 

\  ' 

There  is  another  publication  which  I  love  with  all  my  heart,  and 
that  is  The  Deseret  News,  a  publication  which  is  owned  and  operated 
entirely  by  the  Church.  As  President  McKay  said  the  other  night, 
The  Deseret  News  is  your  newspaper.  It  belongs  to  you,  and  you 
should  be  interested  in  it.  You  should  be  interested  in  seeing  it  grow 
and  develop. 

One  of  the  great  merchandising  experts  in  the  United  States  is 
a  man  named  Amos  Parrish.  I  have  always  enjoyed  reading  his 
magazine.  One  of  the  things  he  teaches  merchants  is  that  they  are 
to  sell  their  products  for  what  they  will  do  for  the  people,  and  he 
tells  the  buyers  to  buy  products  for  what  those  products  will  do  for 
them,  for  the  type  of  service  they  will  render. 

What  does  The  Deseret  News  do  for  you? 


I 


ELDER  MARK  E,  PETERSEN  137 

In  the  first  place,  The  Deseret  News  brings  to  you  a  fine  high  class 
news  and  feature  coverage  which  is  in  keeping  with  the  very  highest 
traditions  of  American  journalism.  That  newspaper  has  been  very 
greatly  improved  in  the  recent  past.  It  is  a  first-class  newspaper, 
one  of  which  you  may  well  be  proud,  one  which  will  serve  you  well 
in  your  home  and  one  which  will  serve  your  children  equally  well. 

What  else  does  The  Deseret  News  do  for  you?  The  Deseret 
News  stands  for  Americanism.  Whether  you  are  a  member  of  this 
Church  or  not,  The  Deseret  News  will  help  to  make  you  a  better 
American,  and  everybody  needs  to  be  better  Americans  today.  So  I 
commend  to  you  that  newspaper  which  builds  patriotism,  genuine 
Americanism  in  your  hearts.  It  stands  for  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States  which  has  been  referred  to  here  today,  and  its  editors 
believe  with  all  their  hearts  that  the  Constitution  was  God-inspired. 
It  promotes  greater  and  finer  communities,  and  better  family  life. 
You  are  all  of  you  interested  in  cleaner  communities,  in  higher  stand- 
ards of  living.  You  would  like  to  see  reduced  the  vice  that  is  so 
apparent  in  so  many  of  our  communities.  I  would  like  you  to  know 
that  The  Deseret  News  stands  for  the  high  standards  of  the  Church. 
It  stands  for  clean  communities,  clean  government,  and  clean  living. 
If  you  want  to  be  a  good  citizen  and  enjoy  clean  community  life,  The 
Deseret  News  will  help  you  to  do  so. 

Much  has  been  said  here  about  the  youth.  I  tell  you  that  The 
Deseret  News  will  serve  your  youth.  You  know  and  I  know  what 
faith-destroyers  cigarets  are.  You  and  I  know  that  a  cigaret  will 
help  to  destroy  the  faith  and,  if  it  continues  on,  the  very  salvation  of 
your  children.  You  may  place  The  Deseret  News  with  confidence 
and  safety  in  the  hands  of  your  children,  because  the  pages  of  that 
newspaper  will  never  tempt  your  children  to  take  a  smoke.  Likewise 
it  never  will  tempt  your  children  to  drink  beer  or  hard  liquor,  because 
such  advertisements  are  not  there.  The  Deseret  News  is  a  clean 
newspaper,  and  it  will  help  you  and  your  children  to  live  the  gospel 
better  if  you  have  it  in  your  homes. 

You  come  here  to  these  conferences  and  you  want  to  know  what 
the  Authorities  of  the  Church  are  thinking  and  talking  about.  The 
Deseret  News  brings  to  you  almost  daily  the  attitude  of  the  leaders 
of  this  Church.  I  would  not  have  you  think  that  they  read  and 
study  everything  before  it  goes  into  the  newspaper,  because,  of 
course,  that  could  not  be.  But  the  general  policy  of  The  Deseret  News 
is  the  reflection  of  the  policy  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  if  you  want  to  know  what  the  general  attitude  of 
this  Church  is  on  most  subjects,  The  Deseret  News  will  bring  it  to 
you. 

The  Deseret  News  also  will  give  you  another  great  service  in 
that  it  brings  to  you  its  Church  Section  which,  in  my  opinion,  is  one 
of  the  very  finest  things  this  Church  has  ever  produced  in  periodical 
form.  Every  Church  worker  will  do  his  work  better  if  he  has  that 
Church  Section.    Your  homes  will  have  more  faith  if  you  read  that 


138  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Satardag,  October  2  Second  Day 

Church  Section.  Your  children  will  love  the  gospel  better  if  they 
read  that  Church  Section.  I  commend  it  to  you  with  all  my  heart  and 
all  my  soul. 

Support  of  Church  Publications 

There  are  many  other  things  that  I  could  say  about  this  news- 
paper, but  time  is  fast  going  on.  My  brethren  and  my  sisters,  some 
of  you  say,  "We  cannot  afford  to  take  all  these  Church  publications." 
I  ask  you  in  all  seriousness  how  can  you  afford  not  to  take  them?  An 
investment  in  the  Church  publications  costs  but  very  little,  but  it  is 
an  investment  in  good  living.  You  cannot  go  to  the  corner  store  and 
buy  a  dollar's  worth  of  character  or  a  quarter's  worth  of  faith.  Yet 
these  are  the  things  above  all  else  for  which  we  strive  in  life.  Are 
we  going  to  count  our  dimes  so  carefully — dimes  that  so  many  times 
otherwise  we  throw  away  for  far  less  valuable  things — that  we  are 
going  to  keep  from  our  children  and  our  homes  these  faith-building, 
character-building  influences?    How  can  we  afford  not  to  take  them? 

I  remember  Paul  once  said  that  the  eye  cannot  say  to  the  hand, 
"I  have  no  need  of  thee."  The  head  cannot  say  to  the  foot,  "I  have 
no  need  of  thee."  (See  I  Corinthians  12:14-25.)  Is  there  one  of  us 
knowing  the  dangers  that  surround  our  children  in  this  day  of  lax 
morality,  in  this  day  of  smoking,  drinking,  and  carousing,  is  there 
one  of  us  who  will  say  that  a  single  safeguard  of  the  Church  is  un- 
necessary? 

These  publications  are  safeguards  of  the  Church  and  I  pray 
that  we  may  have  the  vision  to  see  them  as  such,  and  that  we  may 
not  say  to  any  one  of  them,  "I  have  no  need  of  thee,"  and  for  this  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen.  . 

ELDER  ELBERT  R.  CURTIS 

General  Superintendent  of  Y.M.M.I.A. 

I  wonder  if  any  of  you  know  how  far  it  is  up  those  stairs. 
As  President  Smith  referred  to  some  of  the  past  privileges  and 
responsibilities  that  have  been  mine,  if  he  had  just  added,  "and 
presently  frightened  almost  to  death,"  he  would  have  brought  you 
up  to  date. 

This  has  been  a  wonderful  conference.  The  spirit  of  it  has 
been  such  that  it  almost  takes  the  fear  from  my  heart.  Surely  you 
appreciate  that  a  man  may  not  respond  to  such  a  calling  as  has 
now  come  to  me  without  a  spirit  of  humility  and  a  desire  to  serve 
the  Lord  to  the  utmost  of  his  ability. 

In  his  remarks.  Bishop  LeGrand  Richards  suggested  that 
as  a  man  gives  of  his  time  and  his  efforts  to  the  work  of  the  Lord 
that  the  Lord  makes  it  up  to  him,  puts  thoughts  into 'his  mind. 
In  fact,  he  suggested  thoughts  that  will  make  money.  I  have 
not  prayed  and  do  not  for  the  temporal  blessings  of  the  earth. 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  139 


but  I  have  prayed  sincerely  that  the  Lord  will  enlarge  my  think- 
ing, will  inspire  me  that  through  me  as  his  humble  servant  the 
youth  of  this  Church  might  be  blessed. 

Was  it  Daniel  Webster  who,  when  asked  what  is  the 
greatest  thought  you  have  ever  had,  answered,  "my  responsibility 
to  God."  And  as  I  think  of  the  responsibility  of  leading  the  youth 
of  this  great  Church  it  well  nigh  takes  the  courage  from  me. 

I  realize  that  the  brethren  have  not  asked  me  to  do  this  alone. 
They  have  blessed  *me  with  splendid  assistants.  There  will  be  an 
equally  fine  board  I  am  sure. 

Each  talk  of  the  brethren  during  Conference,  it  seems  to  me, 
has  been  directed  toward  the  problems  of  youth.  They  are  con- 
cerned. Their  tender  loving  care  is  an  inspiration  in  and  of  itself. 
We  follow  great  and  grand  men  who  have  presided  over  the 
Mutuals  of  the  Church  and  whose  work  we  hope  to  carry  on  in  a 
way  that  will  be  pleasing  to  our  Father  in  heaven. 

This  is  God's  work.  With  some  fourteen  hundred  bishops 
who  lead  the  youth  of  their  respective  wards  and  whose  support 
we  know  we  can  count  upon,  with  the  many  stake  presidents  and 
all  who  love  this  work  as  we  love  it,  surely  we  cannot  fail. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  as  we  strive  to  carry  out 
his  will  for  the  blessing  of  his  children  here  in  the  earth,  I  humbly 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

We  have  just  listened  to  the  general  superintendent  of  the 
Y.  M.  M.  I.  A.,  Elbert  R.  Curtis,  who  succeeds  Brother  George  Q. 
Morris,  who  is  now  in  the  Eastern  States  Mission  presiding  over 
that  mission. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  sing  to  us:  "Give  Unto  the  Meek," 
and  the  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  W.  Glenn  Har- 
mon of  the  Berkeley  Stake,  Berkeley,  California,  after  which  this 
Conference  will  stand  adjourned  until  2:00  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

The  proceedings  of  this  afternoon's  session-  will  be  broadcast 
over  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL  over 
the  following  stations:  KDSH  at  Boise,  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KID 
at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at  Pocatello,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at 
Vernal,  and  over  KTYL  at  Mesa  by  transcription. 

This  afternoon  the  audience  should  be  in  their  seats  not  later 
than  ten  minutes  before  the  hour  of  opening  the  meeting. 

Singing  by  the  Choir:  "Give  Unto  the  Meek." 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  President  W.  Glenn  Harmon 
of  the  Berkeley  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


140  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sandag.  October  3  Third  Day 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  Sunday 
afternoon,  October  3,  at  2:00  p.m. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  presided  and  conducted  the  serv- 
ices. * 

Again  the  great  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity,  the  As- 
sembly Hall  was  filled  with  people,  who  listened  to  the  services  as 
they  were  broadcast  over  the  loud  speaking  system  and  by  television, 
and  hundreds  of  others  assembled  upon  the  grounds  and  listened  to 
the  Conference  services  by  means  of  the  loud-speaking  system. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  was  present  and  furnished  the  Choir 
music  for  this  session. 

President  George  Albert  Smiths 

I  hope  that  everybody  will  crowd  as  close  together  as  they  can, 
giving  the  people  who  are  standing  a  seat  where  possible. 

This  is  the  seventh  and  concluding  session  of  the  1 1 9th  Semi- 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah.  The  house  is  filled  to  capacity  and  hundreds  stand- 
ing. The  Assembly  Hall  is  filled,  and  on  the  grounds,  in  the  open 
air,  hundreds  of  people  are  listening  in. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  afternoon  all  of  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church  with  the  exception  of  Elder  Alma  Sonne, 
who  is  presiding  over  the  European  Mission;  and  President  S.  Dil- 
worth  Young,  presiding  over  the  New  England  Mission. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  at 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the  following 
stations:  KDSH  at  Boise,  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls, 
KEYY  at  Pocatello,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at  Vernal,  and  over 
KTYL  at  Mesa  by  transcription. 

I  take  this  occasion  to  express  appreciation  to  these  broadcast- 
ing stations  for  carrying  our  messages  to  the  communities  that  they 
serve. 

Any  messages  and  calls  that  come  in  for  persons  supposed  to 
be  in  attendance,  if  they  are  important,  will  be  announced  over  the 
loud-speaking  system  on  the  grounds  at  the  close  of  the  meeting. 
Everyone  would  do  well  to  listen  for  such  notices. 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  will  be  rendered  by  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir,  Elder  }.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting,  and  Elder  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  this  afternoon's  service  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
singing:  "Almighty  God  of  Our  Fathers." 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  141 


The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Fred  W. 
Schwendiman  of  the  Wells  Stake,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

The  Choir  sang:  "Almighty  God  of  Our  Fathers." 
The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Fred  W.  Schwendi- 
man, President  of  the  Wells  Stake. 

Singing  by  the  Choir:  "My  Shepherd  Will  Supply  My. Need." 

President  David  O.  McKay  presented  the  General  Authorities, 
General  Officers,  and  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church,  and 
they  were  unanimously  sustained  as  follows: 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  First  Presidency 

George  Albert  Smith,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

George  F.  Richards 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

George  F.  Richards  Harold  B.  Lee 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Spencer  W.  Kimball 

Stephen  L.  Richards  Ezra  Taft  Benson 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Mark  E.  Petersen 

Joseph  F.  Merrill  Matthew  Cowley 

Albert  E.  Bowan  Henry  D.  Moyle 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 

Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  counselors  in  the  First'  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles, 
and  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Marion  G.  Romney  Clifford  E.  Young 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Alma  Sonne 

Trustee-in-Trust 

George  Albert  Smith 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 


142  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  3  Third  Day 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Seymour  Dilworth  Young 

Richard  L.  Evans  Milton  R.  Hunter 

Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Presiding  Bishopric 

LeGrand  Richards,  Presiding  Bishop 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  First  Counselor 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  Second  Counselor 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  as  Assistant 

Church  Board  of  Education 

George  Albert  Smith  John  A.  Widtsoe 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Adam  S.  Bennion 

David  O.  McKay  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Franklin  L.  West 

Stephen  L  Richards  Albert  E.  Bowen 

Frank  Evans,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

Commissioner  of  Education 
Franklin  L.  West 

Seminary  Supervisor 
J.  Karl  Wood 

Auditing  and  Finance  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams  George  S.  Spencer 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Harold  H.  Bennett 


Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner 
Frank  W.  Asper 

Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  143 

Church  Welfare  Committee 
Advisors 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

Harold  B.  Lee  LeGrand  Richards 

Marion  G.  Romney  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 

Alma  Sonne 

General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 

General  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 
Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 
Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 
Wm.  E.  Ryberg  Mark  B.  Garff 

Roscoe  W.  Eardley  Leonard  E.  Adams 

Paul.C.  Child  J.  Leonard  Love 

T.  C.  Stayner  W.  T.  Lawrence 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Velma  N.  Simonsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

Milton  Bennion,  General  Superintendent 
George  R.  Hill,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
A.  Hamer  Reiser,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Elbert  R.  Curtis,  General  Superintendent 
A.  Walter  Stevenson,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Ralph  W.  Hardy,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted, — 
with  the  understanding  that  all  the  members  will  be  released 
at  the  conclusion  of  the  holding  of  the  present  conventions, 
and  a  new  Board  of  the  Y.M.M.I.A.  will  be  chosen  by  the 
new  Superintendency  whom  you  sustain  today. 


144  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  3  Third  Day 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Bertha  S.  Reeder,  President 
Emily  H.  Bennett,  First  Counselor 
LaRue  C.  Longden,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Primary  Association 

Adele  Cannon  Howells,  President 
LaVern  W.  Parmley,  First  Counselor 
Dessie  G.  Boyle,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

All  you  who  can  sustain  these  brethren  and  sisters  in  their 
respective  positions,  with  the  explanation  made  regarding  the  Young 
Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association,  please  manifest  it  by  rais- 
ing your  right  hand. 

(the  hands  were  raised) 
As  far  as  I  can  see  the  voting  has  been  unanimous  in  the  affirmative. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

We  have  just  heard  President  David  O.  McKay  of  the  First 
Presidency  presenting  the  General  Authorities,  general  officers  and 
general  auxiliary  officers  of  the  Church  for  the  sustaining  vote  of 
the  Conference.  It  is  a  magnificant  sight  from  this  point  of  vantage 
to  look  over  this  great  audience  and  see  the  unanimous  vote — not  a 
dissenting  vote  being  apparent. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  o/  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  have  been  deeply  moved  by  this  conference,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  my  inclination  would  be  to  spend  my  allotted  time 
in  lending  support  and  sanction  to  the  great  messages  which  have 
come  to  us.  I  have,  however,  another  obligation  that  I  feel  I  must 
discharge. 

Report  of  South  American  Trip 

My  wife  and  I  returned  from  South  America  last  spring  just  a 
day  or  two  too  late  to  attend  the  April  conference.  While  I  have 
spoken  of  some  of  my  experiences  in  a  few  of  the  stake  conferences, 
I  have  thought  that  I  should  make  a  report  to  the  Church  on  our  visits 
to  these  missions  in  the  southern  continent. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  145 


Perhaps  it  might  be  well  at  the  outset  just  to  refresh  your  geo- 
graphical memories  a  little.  South  America  is  not  only  south  of 
North  America,  but  it  is  almost  entirely  east  of  the  United  States, 
so  that  during  nearly  all  of  the  time  we  spent  away  we  were  four 
hours,  or  time  zones;  east  of  Salt  Lake  City,  and  only  two  time  zones 
west  of  London.  Our  travels  consumed  about  eighteen  thousand 
miles,  so  you  see  we  here  at  home  are  a  long  way  from  our  fellow 
members  in  the  missions  of  South  America,  and  because  of  that 
difference  and  the  fact  that  about  twenty-two  years  had  elapsed 
since  that  country  was  visited  by  General  Authorities,  you  will 
readily  understand  that  we  were  awaited  with  a  royal  welcome. 

We  left  Salt  Lake  City  on  the  last  day  of  December  last  year. 
We  spent  about  two  weeks  in  Washington  DC,  and  in  New  York 
in  securing  letters  of  introduction  to  prominent  business  people  in  the 
south,  and  also  in  interviews  at  the  embassies  of  the  countries  we 
intended  to  visit,  where  we  were  introduced  through  the  courtesy 
of  our  Congressional  representatives.  We  never  did  secure  time 
enough  to  present  all  of  these  letters,  but  we  had  the  satisfaction 
of  making  our  mission  presidents  acquainted  with  some  prominent 
men  who  may  be  of  some  aid  in  the  future. 

It  was  bitter  cold  when  we  left  New  York  harbor,  with  some 
of  the  water  pipes  of  the  ship  frozen,  so  I  assure  you  it  was  alto- 
gether agreeable,  after  a  few  days,  to  come  into  a  warmer  climate. 
However,  we  found  that  you  can  often  get  too  much  of  a  good  thing, 
and  when  we  reached  Rio  de  Janeiro  in  the  middle  of  their  summer, 
comparable  to  our  July,  in  a  heat  wave  more  intense  than  they  had 
had  in  four  years,  we  longed  for  the  snow  and  ice  we  had  so  re- 
cently left.  You  know  you  can  usually  protect  yourself  against 
the  cold,  but  you  can't  against  the  heat,  and  I  am  sure  I  prolonged 
my  visit  to  the  few  air-conditioned  offices  where  I  presented  letters 
of  introduction,  beyond  the  bounds  of  strict  propriety.  I  hope  it 
wasn't  too  obvious.  Down  in  Sao  Paulo,  the  headquarters  of  the 
Brazilian  Mission,  it  was  a  little  bit  more  temperate  because  that  has 
some  elevation  above  the  sea,  and  Montevideo  and  Buenos  Aires  are 
farther  south  and  in  a  more  temperate  zone. 

"Divine  Services"  Conducted 

Soon  after  we  boarded  the  ship,  we  were  happy  to  learn  that 
there  were  seven  missionaries  abpard,  and  one  member  of  the  Church 
in  the  ship's  employ.  With  the  assistance  of  these  good  folk,  on 
the  request  of  the  ship's  command,  we  conducted  what  were  called 
"divine  services"  on  the  two  Sundays  of  the  voyage.  The  mission- 
aries were  all  splendid  young  men.  I  am  sure  they  made  an  ex- 
cellent impression.  On  the  way  home,  on  the  same  ship  and  a  sister 
ship,  we  were  asked  to  conduct  three  more  Sunday  services,  so 
that  I  began  to  feel  that  I  ought  to  have  been  put  on  the  ship's 
payroll.    That  hope  vanished  early,  however,  when  it  was  learned 


146  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  3  Third  Day 

that  we  didn't  preach  for  hire.  The  captain,  however,  rewarded 
me  somewhat  by  giving  me  the  rather  rare  privilege  of  going  on  the 
bridge  of  the  vessel  with  an  officer  guide  to  explain  the  mysteries  of 
automatic  steering  and  radar,  and  when  I  was  escorted  to  the  huge  en- 
gine room  where  I  inspected  one  of  the  greatest  power  plants  I 
have  ever  seen,  I  felt  quite  rewarded  for  my  preaching. 

We  arrived  in  Buenos  Aires,  headquarters  of  the  Argentine 
Mission,  in  the  morning.  We  could  see  from  the  ship's  deck  the 
mission  president,  and  his  wife,  and  the  missionaries  and  Saints 
gathered  to  meet  us.  It  was  noon,  however,  before  we  could  greet 
them.  The  time  consumed  in  getting  baggage  through  customs 
and  in  the  inspection  of  visas  and  securing  medical  permits,  is  very 
considerable,  I  assure  you. 

Inconvenience  of  Receiving  Packages 

In  this  connection  I  would  like  to  broadcast  the  counsel  through- 
out the  Church  to  all  parents  and  friends  of  missionaries  in  the  South 
American  missions,  not  to  send  to  the  missionaries  packages  at 
Christmas,  or  any  other  time,  containing  articles  which  are  not  es- 
sential to  them  in  their  work.  It  often  requires  many  hours  and 
sometimes  days  of  the  precious  time  of  missionaries,  or  the  mission 
staff,  to  get  packages  out  of  customs,  and  a  box  of  stale  cookies 
which  has  spent  two  or  three  months  on  the  way,  even  though  it 
carries  a  lot  of  love  and  sentiment  from  the  folk  at  home  isn't  worth 
it.  An  airmail  letter  on  thin  paper  with  a  ten-cent  stamp  is  a  far  more 
expeditious  and  satisfactory  message  of  your  affection  and  en- 
couragement under  the  circumstances  that  prevail  in  South  America. 

There  is  a  word  in  frequent  use  in  South  America  which  ex- 
presses a  quality  wholly  necessary  to  peace  of  mind.  It  is  the  word 
paciencia  meaning  patience.  Everybody  takes  his  time  about  doing 
things,  the  government  and  its  agencies,  especially.  The  sooner 
you  learn  this  the  happier  you  are.       -  , 

Hospitable  Reception 

Well,  we  finally  got  through  customs  to  enjoy  the  welcome  and 
greetings  of  our  patient  friends.  I  will  say  just  a  word  about  our 
reception  at  the  Laniers  Branch  of  the  Argentine  Mission  in  Buenos 
Aires,  because  this  was  typical  of  the  hospitality  and  greeting  of 
the  Saints  and  missionaries  throughout  the  missions.  The  Laniers 
Branch  is  the  largest  of  all  the  branches  of  the  Church  in  South 
America,  and  is  one  of  the  very  few  which  owns  its  own  place  of 
meeting,  which  is  a  very  modest  one.  On  this  occasion  there  were 
gathered  about  four  hundred  members  of  the  Church  and  friends. 
The  hall  was  crowded.  It  had  been  decorated  with  flowers  and 
streamers,  and  presented  an  attractive  appearance.  An  elaborate 
program  had  been  prepared,  with  both  amateur  and  professional 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  147 


talent,  consisting  of  speeches,  singing,  and  folk  dancing  rendered 
in  Spanish  and  native  costume,  with  some  interpretations  for  our 
benefit.  Children  participated  liberally.  Some  of  the  skits  and 
songs  had  been  specially  written,  and  the  whole  program  repre- 
sented the  expenditure  of  a  large  amount  of  time  and  effort  in  pre- 
paration. As  a  climax.  Sister  Richards  was  presented  with  beauti- 
ful flowers  which  grow  in  profusion  in  that  country.  On  one 
occasion  the  orchids  given  to  her  hung  from  her  shoulder  almost 
to  her  knee.    I  know  the  ladies  will  take  note  of  that. 

I  was  given  a  beautifully  ornamented  cake  made  by  some  of 
the  good  sisters.  I  am  not  supposed  to  eat  cake,  but  I  soon  dis- 
covered that  the  missionaries  have  good  appetites  without  many 
restrictions,  and  I  assure  you  that  none  of  the  cake  given  to  me  was 
wasted. 

It  was  in  this  welcoming  social  that  we  were  first  made  really 
to  feel  the  sentiment  and  spirit  of  our  fellow  members  of  the  Church 
in  those  distant  lands.  They  were  respectful  and  reverent  almost 
to  an  embasassing  degree.  I  am  not  used  to  having  my  hand  kissed, 
a  custom  which  is  a  holdover  that  some  of  the  older  people  have 
kept,  from  the  traditions  and  practices  of  their  earlier  affiliations. 
They  were  warm-hearted,  and  for  the  most  part  demonstrative  and 
impulsive.  It  was  apparent  that  the  fellowship  promoted  by  the 
Church  had  found  a  place  in  their  lives,  and  particularly  among 
the  sisters  I  noted  that  affectionate  regard  for  each  other  which  we 
so  frequently  see  at  home.  It  was  apparent  that  nearly  all  were  in 
humble  circumstances,  although  many  were  tastefully  and  some- 
what stylishly  dressed.  Particularly  was  this  true  of  the  girls.  They 
were,  however,  a  little  short  on  the  latest  fashions.  The  long  skirts 
had  not  yet  reached  them. 

Many  Nationalities  Represented 

It  was  evident  that  many  nationalities  were  represented,  with  a 
preponderance  of  the  brunette  people  from  Spain,  Italy,  and  the 
Mediterranean  countries.  There  were  a  few  of  German  and  Eng- 
lish extraction,  but  far  more  from  southern  than  from  northern 
Europe.  This  group  of  people  which  we  first  met  were  typical  in 
their  racial  composition,  of  the  groups  we  met  in  all  the  missions.  The 
stocks  from  southern  Europe  prevail.  Spanish  is  the  national  lan- 
guage in  Argentina  and  Uruguay,  and  in  Brazil,  the  Portuguese. 
I  talked  with  a  number  of  families  in  Brazil  who  prided  themselves 
on  pure  Portuguese  blood.  It  so  happens,  however,  that  our  work 
in  both  Argentina  and  Brazil  was  begun  in  the  German  language, 
among  immigrants  from  Germany.  We  still  have  a  few  German 
groups  of  Saints,  where  German  is  spoken,  but  this  practice  is  being 
discontinued. 

It  should  be  said  here,  for  the  information  of  the  Church,  that 
our  South  American  missions  do  substantially  no  work  among  the 


148  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  3  Third  Dag 

Lamanite  people,  and  so  far  as  I  know,  we  have  no  Indian  members 
of  the  Church  in  these  missions.  I  met  a  few  Indian  boys  who  were 
attending  school  at  one  of  the  universities  in  Argentina  who  had 
come  from  Peru.  The  missionaries  had  made  friends  with  them, 
and  they  took  part  on  one  of  our  programs.  They  were  small- 
statured,  but  seemed  intelligent  and  kindly  disposed,  and  some  day 
perhaps  our  work  may  be  carried  to  their  country. 

Distrust  in  Evidence 

My  observation  that  the  Latin  Americans  are  predominantly 
from  the  southern  European  stocks  led  me  to  wonder  how  suscept- 
ible these  people  are  to  the  teachings  and  influence  of  the  gospel. 
I  recalled  that  in  more  than  one  hundred  years  we  have  done  little 
or  no  missionary  work  in  Spain,  Italy,  Portugal,  and  adjacent  coun- 
tries. Perhaps  this  may  be  the  means,  in  South  America,  of  some 
day  approaching  those  countries.  I  thought  I  could  see  in  the  disposi- 
tion, customs  and  practices  of  these  South  Americans  ,some  of  the 
reasons  which  have  impeded  gospel  work  among  them.  They  are 
people  who  have  suffered  many  impositions.  They  have  not  been 
trained  and  nurtured  in  the  kind  of  freedoms  which  northern 
Europeans  and  North  Americans  have  enjoyed,  in  consequence  of 
which,  perhaps,  they  have  become  by  nature  suspicious  and  distrust- 
ful. American  businessmen  told  me  that  after  many  years  of  business 
dealings  they  were  unable  to  build  up  that  mutual  confidence  and 
friendship  with  native  South  Americans  which  may  be  established 
in  a  7ew  weeks  or  months  among  our  own  people.  The  buildings 
and  homes  of~the  people  are  indicative  of  this  distrust.  Everything 
is  walled  in.  Even  a  little  home  is  usually  surrounded  by  a  wall 
six,  ten,  twelve  feet  in  height,  almost  unscalable,  with  a  locked  gate 
and  sometimes  broken  glass  on  top  of  the  wall  as  a  protection  against 
neighbors  and  others  who  ought  to  be  counted  friends. 

All  this  has  a  bearing  on  our  missionary  work,  as  you  will  read- 
ily see.  Homes  are  not  easily  accessible.  Interviews  are  difficult 
and  it  takes  a  long  time  to  build  up  that  confidence  which  is  essential 
to  friendship  and  mutual  understanding.  Tracting  is  attended  with 
difficulties,  not  only  because  of  walls  and  locked  gates,  but  because 
customs  are  new  and  strange  to  our  missionaries.  During  the  day- 
time men  folk  are  not  at  home,  except  perhaps  for  the  siesta  period, 
when  they  are  not  to  be  disturbed.  This  siesta  takes  a  big  portion 
out  of  a  day.  Places  of  business  close  from  twelve  to  three  o'clock, 
and  our  missionaries  are  greatly  limited  in  their  opportunities  to  make 
contacts.  In  some  sections  they  were  beginning  evening  tracting  in 
the  hope  of  meeting  the  families  at  what  would  seem  to  us  late  hours. 
I  have  not  heard  yet  what  success  attended  these  experiments. 

In  the  main  our  missionary  work  is  prosecuted  through  the 
medium  of  locales.  A  local  is  usually  a  small  rented  building  which 
serves  as  a  home  for  the  missionaries  and  a  place  of  meeting  in  carry- 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  149 


ing  forward  Church  activities  for  the  groups  who  attend.  One  room 
in  the  local  is  fitted  out  to  serve  as  a  little  church  modestly  equipped 
with  a  pulpit,  a  small  organ  and  benches.  Owing  to  the  housing 
shortage  which  prevails  in  South  America  as  it  does  with  us,  it  has 
been  very  difficult  to  secure  Iqcales  in  good  locations  of  the  cities, 
and  we  have  often  been  forced  to  take  places  in  poor  localities. 

Civilization  Centers  in  Cities 

It  should  be  noted  that  all  civilized  life  in  South  America  centers 
in  the  big  cities.  There  is  very  little  agricultural  or  rural  life,  as 
we  know  it.  The  vast  livestock  ranches  of  Argentina,  and  the 
coffee  plantations  of  Brazil  are  owned  by  wealthy  families  who  live 
in  the  big  cities  and  who  dominate  the  whole  agricultural  field.  The 
independent  farm  owner  and  operator  is  almost  unknown.  This 
situation  is  material  to  our  missionary  work.  We  do  no  country 
work.  Our  missionaries  visit  no  farm  homes  so  productive  of  in- 
vestigators and  converts  in  other  countries.  They  are  not  allowed, 
without  permits,  even  to  enter  the  great  ranches  and  plantations. 
One  of  the  greatest  needs  apparent  in  the  countries  we  visited  is 
a  division  of  the  lands  for  a  far  greater  productivity  and  realization 
of  the  vast  resources  of  the  countries,  and  more  importantly,  for  the 
establishment  of  an  independent,  vigorous  middle  class  of  land- 
owners and  workers. 

South  America  is  a  land  of  violent  contrasts — the  very  beauti- 
ful and  the  very  ugly;  the  very  rich  and  the  very  poor;  the  very 
intellectual  and  sophisticated,  and  the  very  ignorant.  Of  course, 
countries  differ  in  these  respects,  but  everywhere  there  is  conspicu- 
ously lacking  that  strong  middle  class  which  is  the  backbone  of  our 
own  and  other  progressive  countries,  I  saw  some  indications  that 
this  class  may  be  growing.  In  some  industrial  centers,  such  as  Sao 
Paulo  in  Brazil,  when  and  if  it  grows,  our  missionary  work  will  have 
more  assurance  of  success.  It  takes  humility  and  intelligence  to 
understand  and  receive  the  restored  gospel.  The  aristocracy  lack 
the  humility,  and  the  poor  and  destitute  often  lack  in  good  measure 
the  intelligence. 

Promising  Prospects  Among  Youth 

Our  most  promising  prospects  are  among  the  youth  in  all  the 
countries.  They  are  forward-looking,  and  they  are  emerging  from 
some  of  the  distrust  and  suspicion  which  has  so  retarded  the  pro- 
gress of  their  elders.  These  young  people  have  admiration  for  many 
things  in  America.  They  learn  about  us  largely  through  the  picture 
shows.  Unfortunately,  through  this  medium  they  do  not  always 
get  correct  impressions  of  the  best  part  of  our  North  American  life. 
It's  a  shame  that  we  have  to  be  advertised  by  the  most  effective 
advertising  there  is,  for  our  gangsterism,  infidelity,  frivolity,  and 


* 


150  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  3  Third  Day 

cheap  wit.  These  young  people,  however,  see  our  automobiles, 
our  clothes,  our  fine  homes  in  the  pictures,  and  they  think  they  would 
like  to  have  some  of  these  things.  They  want  to  learn  English  and 
our  missionaries  capitalize  on  this  desire  and  teach  many  of  them 
English.  English  classes  are  held  in  the  locales.  The  young  people 
who  come  in  contact  with  our  missionaries  develop  a  great  admira- 
tion for  them — for  their  fine,  clean  manhood,  their  friendliness  and 
their  serious  work.  Mutual  Improvement  Associations  are  begun,  and 
gradually  the  gospel  plan  unfolds  before  these  people,  and  they 
are  given  an  entirely  new  vision  of  abundant  and  rich  living  with 
purpose  and  incentive,  even  in  their  poverty. 

I  saw  some  branches  of  the  mission  made  up  and  carried  for- 
ward entirely  by  young  people.  Of  course,  there  are  older  people, 
too,  who  have  proved  susceptible  to  gospel  teaching,  but  in  the 
main  I  feel  that  our  hope  lies  with  the  youth. 

South  America  desperately  needs  the  restored  gospel.  The  na- 
tions of  that  land  need,  more  than  anything  else,  the  true  concepts 
of  liberty  which  arise  out  of  a  correct  understanding  of  the  relation- 
ship of  man  to  God  and  his  fellow  man.  They  need  a  comprehension 
of  justice,  equity,  and  equality.  They  need  to  understand  more 
perfectly  the  dignity  of  work,  and,  of  course,  they  need  the  en- 
lightenment of  education.  As  one  man  said  who  gave  me  a  letter 
of  introduction  to  business  associates  in  South  America:  "South 
America  needs  what  the  Mormon  Church  has  to  offer." 

Our  missionaries  are  trying  hard  to  give  these  things  to  the 
people  who  so  sorely  need  them.  Their  work  is  conducted  at  great 
expense.  It  costs  more  than  one  thousand  dollars  in  transportation 
alone  to  put  a  missionary  in  one  of  these  missions  and  bring  him  home'. 
Living  costs  are  very  high,  even  in  American  money,  which  sells  at 
a  premium.  The  language  is  difficult,  particularly  the  Portuguese, 
and  many  months  pass  before  a  missionary  can  adequately  express 
himself  before  the  people.  However,  they,  our  missionaries,  carry 
with  them  a  spirit,  and  the  testimony  of  truth  which,  even  imperfectly 
expressed  in  the  language  of  the  people,  touches  the  hearts  of  many 
who  hear  them. 

Missionaries  and  Saints  Faithful 

Now  I  found  in  all  the  missions  a  great  enthusiasm  among  the 
missionaries  for  their  work.  They  have  developed  a  love  for  the 
people,  which  lies  at  the  base  of  all  good  missionary  labors,  and 
they,  under  the  direction  of  their  mission  presidents,  are  organizing 
and  planning  to  meet  the  conditions.  We  also  have  some  very  faith- 
ful Saints  who  are  great  aids  in  promoting  our  work.  I  saw  some 
very  good  work  being  carried  forward  by  small  branches  of -  the 
missions — Sunday  Schools  and  Primaries  where  little  children  are 
being  taught;  priesthood  classes  where  men  and  boys  are  learning 
their  duties;  Relief  Societies  and  welfare  workers  are  carrying  for- 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  151 


ward  commendable  projects.  Generally,  the  groups  were  small  and 
largely  dependent  upon  the  missionaries,  but  there  was  promise  in 
them.  Perhaps  the  most  stimulating  of  any  exercises  I  saw  were  the 
baptismal  ceremonies.  We  had  the  privilege  of  being  present  at 
two,  one  in  Argentina  and  one  in  the  interior  of  Brazil.  Nothing  is 
more  encouraging  to  missionaries  and  to  members  of  the  Church 
than  to  see  the  fruits  of  their  labors  and  the  happiness  which  comes 
to  those  who  ally  themselves  with  the  work  of  the  Lord.  In  each 
service,  six  to  ten  were  baptized  into  the  Church. 

If  time  permitted,  I  would  tell  you  some  rather  interesting  aspects 
of  these  baptismal  services,  but  it  does  not.  After  all,  this  is  the 
great  encouragement  to  our  missionaries.  The  realization  of  know- 
ing that  they  may  have  been  the  means  of  bringing  peace — peace 
of  mind  and  peace  to  the  heart  and  soul  of  some  one  of  God's  chil- 
dren who  has  humbled  himself  to  seek  the  truth.  I  am  not  able  to 
say  how  many  in  South  America  will  respond  to  the  spirit  and  mes- 
sage we  bear,  but  I  am  sure  we  are  doing  our  duty,  fulfilling  divine 
command,  when  we  carry  the  word  of  our  Lord  to  all  lands  and  peo- 
ples. 

Gratitude  for  Visit 

I  acknowledge  my  gratitude  to  the  First  Presidency  in  extend- 
ing to  me  the  opportunity  of  making  this  visit,  and  I  also  acknowledge 
the  innumerable  courtesies  and  kindnesses  shown  to  my  wife  and 
me  by  the  mission  presidents  and  their  wives,  the  missionaries,  and 
Saints,  and  friends  of  the  South  American  missions.  It  was  an 
unforgetable  experience.  If  any  good  to  the  noble  cause,  which  I 
love,  shall  come  of  it,  I  shall  be  very  grateful. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  may  bless  our  missionaries  in  all  lands  and 
the  Saints  who  are  scattered  over  the  earth.  I  trust  that  they  may 
all  feel  as  we  tried  to'  make  them  feel  in  South  America,  that  we  are 
all  one  in  the  Church  of  Christ,  that  even  though  we  may  be  widely 
separated,  we  can  reach  out  over  the  lands  and  the  oceans  and  ex- 
tend the  handclasp  of  fellowship  and  good  brotherhood  to  our  mem- 
bers throughout  the  globe.  I  think  this  was  the  message  which  they, 
in  the  southern  hemisphere,  appreciated  more  than  any  other.  They 
wanted  to  be  assured  that  they  were  one  with  us  and  we*  with  them. 
The  day  will  come,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  when  the  mighty  cause 
with  which  we  have  the  honor  to  be  associated,  will  bring  to  pass 
that  unity  in  a  divided:  and  stricken  world.  God  grant  it  may  come 
soon  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


152  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  3  Third  Day 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  seek  the  guidance  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

I  am  not  going  to  give  you  anything  new.  Everything  that 
pertains  to  the  gospel  is  new,  but  I  shall  not  present  anything  that 
has  not  already  been  considered,  either  at  this  conference  or  at 
some  other  time,  and  I  may,  in  the  course  of  my  remarks,  repeat  and 
emphasize  some  things  that  have  already  been  said. 

Light  and  Truth 

First,  I  shall  read  to  you  from  section  nine-three  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  where  the  Lord  says,  speaking  of  light  and  truth 
which  is  the  Spirit  of  Christ: 

Light  and  truth  forsake  that  evil  one. 

Every  spirit  of  man  was  innocent  in  the  beginning;  and  God  having 
redeemed  man  from  the  fall,  men  became  again,  in  their  infant  state,  in- 
nocent before  God. 

And  that  wicked  one  cometh  and  taketh  away  light  and  truth,  through 
disobedience,  from  the  children  of  men,  and  because  of  the  tradition  of 
their  fathers. 

But  I  have  commanded  you  to  bring  up  your  children  in  light  and 
truth.  (D.  6  C.  93:37-40.) 

I  know  we  were  all  very  deeply  impressed  with  the  remarks  of 
President  McKay  this  morning,  and  others  of  the  brethren  who 
have  spoken,  in  relation  to  the  care  of  our  children  in  the  home.  I 
wish  to  continue,  perhaps  treating  this  matter  from  a  little  different 
viewpoint,  but  nevertheless  calling  the  attention  of  the  members 
of  the  Church,  of  fathers  and  mothers,  to  their  responsibility  in  re- 
gard to  the  training  of  their  children. 

The  Family  Unit 

There  is  no  substitute  for  a  righteous  home.  That  may  not  be 
so  considered  in  the  world,  but  it  is  and  ought  to  be  in  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  family  is  the  unit  in  the 
kingdom  of  God.  That  we  believe,  and  if  we  are  fortunate  enough, 
through  the  keeping  of  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  to  go  back 
and  re-enter  the  celestial  kingdom  to  dwell  with  him,  we  will  find 
that  we  are  his  sons  and  his  daughters,  that  he  is  in  very  deed  our 
Father.  As  Paul  has  stated  it,  we  are  his  offspring,  and  through 
obedience  to  every  principle  of  eternal  truth  we  will  go  back  to  be 
his  sons  and  his  daughters. 

Paul  has  said  and  prayed,  speaking  of  the  mission  of  Christ  and 
his  obedience  to  him: 

For  this  cause  I  bow  my  knees  unto  the  Father  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ. 

Of  whom  the  whole  family  in  heaven  and  earth  is  named.  (Eph. 
3:14-15.) 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  153 


If  we  get  back  into  that  great  kingdom  after  the  earth  is  re- 
deemed, we  will  find  ourselves  members  of  the  great  family  of  God, 
and  he  will  be  our  Father. 

He  said,  you  know,  to  John: 

He  that  overcometh  shall  inherit  all  things;  and  I  shall  be  his  God, 
and  he  shall  be  my  son.  (Rev.  21:7.) 

We  should  remember,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  that  outside  of  the 
celestial  kingdom,  there  is  no  family  organization.  That  organiza- 
tion is  reserved  for  those  who  are  willing  to  abide  in  every  covenant 
and  every  obligation  which  we  are  called  upon  to  receive  while  we 
sojourn  here  in  this  mortal  life. 

Duties  of  Parents 

Now,  let  me  take  up  where  these  brethren  left  off.  Of  course 
there  should  be  prayer  and  faith  and  love  and  obedience  to  God  in 
the  home.  It  is  the  duty  of  parents  to  teach  their  children  these 
saving  principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  so  that  they  will  know 
why  they  are  to  be  baptized  and  that  they  may  be  impressed  in 
their  hearts  with  a  desire  to  continue  to  keep  the  commandments 
of  God  after  they  are  baptized,  that  they  may  come  back  into  his 
presence.  Do  you,  my  good  brethren  and  sisters,  want  your  fami- 
lies, your  children;  do  you  want  to  be  sealed  to  your  fathers  and 
your  mothers  before  you,  do  you  want  to  have  this  family  unit 
perfect  when  you,  if  you  are  permitted,  shall  enter  the  celestial 
kingdom  of  God?  If  so,  then  you  must  begin  by  teaching  at  the 
cradle-side.  You  are  to  teach  by  example  as  well  as  precept.  You 
are  to  kneel  with  your  children  in  prayer.  You  are  to  teach  them, 
in  all  humility,  of  the  mission  of  our  Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  You  have 
to  show  them  the  way,  and  the  father  who  shows  his  son  the  way 
will  not  say  to  him: 

"Son,  go  to  Sunday  School,  or  go  to  Mutual,  or  go  to  the  priest- 
hood meeting,"  but  he  will  say:  "Come  and  go  with  me."  He  will 
teach  by  example. 

Family  prayer  will  be  in  the  home.  In  the  morning  when  the 
family  arises  for  the  day,  the  father  will  gather  his  family,  kneel 
in  prayer,  and  thank  the  Lord  for  his  blessings.  At  night  he  will 
have  them  assemble  again,  and  in  the  family  unit  they  will  kneel 
again  to  pray.  And  all  these  things  will  be  taught  in  the  home, 
because  we  want  to  have  that  home,  intact.  We  do  not  want  it 
destroyed  when  we  cross  to  the  other  side. 

Family  Organization  in  the  Hereafter 

I  have  a  great  deal  of  pity  in  my  heart  for  the  world,  this  so- 
called  Christian  world,  professing  to  believe  in  the  mission  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  in  sincerity,  many  of  them,  I  am  sure.  They  think  they 
are  on  the  right  course;  but  they  have  been  misled  by  false  teachers 


■ 


154  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  3  Third  Day 

into  thinking  that  the  family  comes  to  an  end  at  death,  that  husband 
and  wife  are  separated  eternally,  and  that  there  is  no  more  claim  for 
them  upon  their  children.  And  that  is  true  for  them,  according  to 
their  belief.  That  is  the  condition  that  will  prevail  in  the  terrestrial 
kingdom  and  in  the  telestial  kingdom,  because  there  will  be  no  mar- 
riage there,  and  there  will  be  no  family  order  there.  Do  you  want 
that?  I  say  I  feel  sorry  for  these  people  that  have  been  misled  into 
these  false  notions  in  regard  to  the  hereafter  and  the  family  organi- 
zation. 

Why  do  we  go  into  the  temples  to  be  sealed,  husbands  and 
wives,  and  children  to  parents,  and  why  are  we  commanded  to  have 
this  work  done,  not  only  for  ourselves,  but  also  to  be  sealed  to  our 
fathers  and  mothers,  and  their  fathers  and  mothers  before  them, 
back  as  far  as  we  can  go?  Because  we  want  to  belong  to  that  great 
family  of  God  which  is  in  heaven,  and,  so  far  as  the  Church  is  con- 
cerned, on  earth.    That  is  why. 

Eventually,  when  this  work  is  perfected,  and  Christ  delivers  up 
to  his  Father  the  keys  and  makes  his  report,  and  death  is  destroyed, 
then  that  great  family  from  the  days  of  Adam  down,  of  all  the 
righteous,  those  who  have  kept  the  commandments  of  God,  will 
find  that  they  are  one  family,  the  family  of  God,  entitled  to  all  the 
blessings  that  pertain  to  the  exaltation. 

Responsibility  to  Teach  Children 

Are  you  teaching  your  children  these  truths,  my  brothers,  my 
sisters?  Are  you  training  them  so  that  when  they  are  married  they 
will  want  to  go  to  the  house  of  the  Lord?  Are  you  teaching  them 
so  that  they  will  want  to  receive  the  great  endowment  which  the  Lord 
has  in  store  for  them?  Have,  you  impressed  upon  them  the  fact 
that  they  can  be  sealed  as  husbands  and  wives  and  have  bestowed 
upon  them  every  gift  and  every  blessing  that  pertains  to  the  celes- 
tial kingdom,  and  thus  they  shall  become  the  sons  and  the  daughters 
of  God,  and  have  you  impressed  upon  them  that  great  truth  that 
if  they  are  not  married  for  time  and  eternity  that  they  will  come 
forth  in  the  resurrection  of  the  dead  separately  and  singly,  to  be 
servants  for  those  who  belong  to  the  family  of  God.  Have  you  done 
that?    Are  you  doing  that? 

Time  will  not  permit  me  to  say  anything  more,  but  I  want  to 
leave  this  impression  with  you,  in  continuation  of  our  responsibilities 
as  parents  to  each  other  and  to  our  children,  and  as  the  Patriarch 
declared  yesterday,  if  we  will  do  these  things,  keep  these  command- 
ments and  live  as  we  ought  to,  there  will  be  no  divorce  in  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  Lord  bless  you,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 


155 


President  George  Albert  Smith; 

The  Choir  and  congregation  will  now  sing:  "I'll  Go  Where  You 
Want  Me  To  Go,"  after  which  we  will  hear  from  Elder  Matthew 
Cowley,  also  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

As  I  announce  that  hymn,  "I'll  Go  Where  You  Want  Me  to 
Go,"  I  can  imagine  there  are  many  of  the  thousands  of  people  in  this 
congregation  who  have  in  mind  a  man  who  used  to  sing  it  so  beau- 
tifully, who  traveled  all  over  the  Church  as  a  missionary  of  the 
Church,  Elder  Melvin  J.  Ballard.  •  I  always  think  of  him  when  we 
sing  this  hymn. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn — "I'll  Go  Where 
You  Want  Me  to  Go." 

ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  it  is  good  to  be  back  from  wandering 
to  and  fro  in  the  earth.  I  have  long  needed  the  inspiration  of  a  gen- 
eral conference,  and  I'  have  not  been  disappointed. 

When  we  sustained  this  day,  as  the  custodians  of  the  kingdom, 
the  men  and  women  whose  names  were  read,  I  was  convinced  within 
my  heart  that  as  long  as  men  and  women  such  as  these  are  the 
custodians  of  the  kingdom,  the  ordinances  will  never  be  changed,  and 
the  everlasting  covenants  will  never  be  broken. 

It  is  my  privilege  to  serve  as  a  missionary  in  some  of  the  far- 
flung  areas  of  the  earth  and  in  the  islands  of  the  sea.  I  am  reminded 
of  the  last  commission  which  the  Master  gave  to  his  disciples  and 
said  unto  them: 

Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature. 
He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized  shall  be  saved;  and  he  that  be- 
lieveth  not  shall  be  damned.  (Mark  16:15.)  • 

Signs  to  Follow  Believers 

And  certain  signs  were  to  follow  those  who  believed.  Among 
those  signs  were  these,  that  they  should  speak  with  new  tongues, 
that  they  would  lay  their  hands  upon  the  sick,  and  they  would  be 
healed.  About  these  two  signs  I  would  like  to  speak  for  just  a  moment 
while  I  visit  with  you. 

On  Friday  evening  I  attended  the  reunion  of  the  New  Zealand 
missionary  society,  and  as  I  stood  before  that  group  I  could 
see  more  men  who  could  speak  the  Maori  language  of  New  Zea- 
land than  there  are  among  the  million  and  a  half  white  people  re- 
siding in  New  Zealand  who  can  speak  the  native  language  of  their 
native  people. 

I  attended  the  Tahitian  missionary  reunion,  and  I  am  sure  that 
the  same  could  be  said  of  those  men  at  that  reunion.   I  believe  there 


156  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  3  Third  Dag 

are  here  in  this  city  more  white  men  who  can  speak  the  Hawaiian 
language  than  there  are  in  all  the  islands  of  Hawaii.  I  am  sure 
that  there  are  more  white  people  here  who  speak  the  Samoan 
language  than  there  are  among  the  white  residents  of  Samoa,  and 
the  same  is  true  of  the  other  islands  of  the  Pacific. 

They  do  speak  with  new  languages,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
when  they  accept  the  call  to  go  into  the  world  to  preach  the  gospel 
to  all  creatures. 

Missionary  Labors'  in  New  Zealand 

I  am  reminded  of  President  McKay's  beautiful  tribute  to  youth, 
the  confidence  he  has  in  youth.  I  am  personally  grateful  for  the  con- 
fidence this  Church  had  in  me  in  my  extreme  youth.  I  was  just 
turning  seventeen  when  I  was  called  to  go  to  New  Zealand  as  a 
missionary.  My  first  appointment  there  was  to  a  little  place  called 
Judea,  a  wonderful  place  to  go,  for  a  young  missionary.  At  the 
first  meeting  I  attended  in  Judea,  I  could  not  understand  the  words 
that  were  being  said,  and  after  the  meeting  a  sister  who  could 
speak  English  said  to  me:  "Do  you  know  what  they  said  in  there, 
and  what  they  did?"  I  said:  "I  could  not  understand  a  word." 

She  said:  "Well,  you  were  called  and  sustained  as  the  secretary 
of  the  Relief  Society  of  the  Judea  Branch." 

I  made  up  my  mind  right  there  and  then  that  the  Relief  Society 
was  not  going  to  take  any  liberty  with  my  time  as  a  missionary, 
without  my  knowing  something  about  it;  and  so  I  determined  to  get 
the  gift  of  the  Maori  language,  even  if  I  had  to  work  for  it,  and  I 
did  have  to>  work  for  it. 

Gift  of  Tongues 

I  studied  eleven  hours  every  day  for  several  weeks.  I  read  the 
Book  of  Mormon  in.  Maori,  and  my  studies  were  punctuated  with 
fasting  and  with  prayer;  and  on  my  twelfth  Sunday  I  delivered  my 
first  sermon  in  the  Maori  language.  They  do  speak  with  new  tongues, 
those  who  accept  the  call  to  the  ministry  of  our  Lord  and  Savior 
Jesus  Christ. 

I  have  seen  young  missionaries  in  Samoa  and  in  Tonga  and  in 
New  Zealand  and  in  Hawaii  who,  within  six  months'  time,  could 
deliver  sermons  in  the  languages  of  the  people  among  whom  they 
were  laboring  —  young  men  and  women  who  did  not  have  much 
scholastic  training  before  they  were  called  into  the  mission  fields, 
but  these  young  men  and  women,  placed  in  the  hands  of  God,  and 
molded  like  clay  in  the  hands  of  the  potter,  received  the  gifts  which 
they  had  been  promised. 

I  had  a  shoemaker  on  one  occasion  down  in  New  Zealand 
say  to  me.  "Oh,  you  Mormon  missionaries  think  you  are  smart.  You 
come  out  here  and  learn  to  speak  the  Maori  language  in  two  or  three 
years."  He  said:  "I  was  only  here  six  weeks,  and  I  could  say  "Kaore 


ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 


157 


an  moriorio  ki  re  korio  Maori,"  which  means  absolutely  nothing  in 
the  Maori  language.  What  he  was  trying  to  say  was  that  he  did 
not  know  how  to  speak  the  Maori  language,  and  he  did  not.  I  saw 
him  three  or  four  years  later,  and  he  was  still  trying  to  say  he  did 
not  know  how  to  speak  the  Maori  langauge. 

I  have  seen  our  young  men  in  Hawaii,  in'  the  Central  Pacific 
Mission,  learn  to  teach  the  gospel  in  Japanese. 

Results  of  Administration 

Brothers  and  sisters,  with  the  restoration  of  this  gospel  came 
the  reiteration  of  Christ's  commission:  "...  these  signs  shall  follow 
them  that  believe."  (D.  &  C.  84:65.)  There  is  no  question  about  it  in 
my  mind.  "Lay  your  hands  upon  the  sick,  and  they  shall  recover." 
(Ibid.,  66:9.) 

In  Tonga  last  year  there  came  to  the  mission  home  a  couple 
who  had  been  married  for  twenty-seven  years,  and  they  had  never 
been  blessed  with  children.  This  couple  wanted  to  have  children, 
and  so  they  requested  us  to  lay  our  hands  upon  them  and  bless 
them  that  they  might  have  children.  And  so  President  Huntsman 
and  I  laid  our  hands  upon  that  couple,  and  we  blessed  them.  They 
had  the  gift  of  being  healed.  They  had  the  gift  of  receiving  these 
blessings. 

When  my  wife  and  I  visited  Tonga,  I  think  it  was  last  May, 
the  child  had  been  born. 

Last  year  I  went  from  Tonga  to  Samoa.  Another  couple  who 
had  been  married  for  years  and  had  had  no  children  came  to  the 
mission  home  there  to  be  blessed  that  they  might  have  this  greatest 
of  all  blessings.  And  incidently,  brothers  and  sisters,  the  greatest 
calamity  that  can  come  to  the  home  of  a  Polynesian  is  not  to  have 
children.  It  is  such  a  great  calamity  when  they  do  not  have  children 
that  they  go  out  and  borrow  their  neighbor's  children  and  rear  them. 

Well,  we  blessed  this  young  couple,  and  when  my  wife  and  I 
were  there  in  May,  they  brought  the  child  to  me  to  be  christened 
and  blessed,  and  asked  that  it  might  be  given  the  name  of  my  wife. 

A  lady  came  to  me  in  the  mission  home  suffering  from  what  the 
Samoans  call  mu  mu  —  or  elephantiasis  —  her  legs  swollen  out  of 
all  proportion.  She  said:  "Brother  Cowley,  bless  me  and  remove 
from  me  this  dread  disease."  A  month  ago  in  Samoa  she  came  to  the 
-  mission  home  and  she  said:  "Do  you  remember  me?"  I  said,  "Yes, 
you  are  Sister  Purcell  who  was  suffering  from  mu  mu  when  I  was 
here  before."  She  showed  me  her  ankles,  and  they  were  entirely 
normal.  Then  she  said:  "Now,  I  want  the  cataracts  to  drop  from  my 
eyes.  Bless  me  now  that  I  may  receive  this  blessing  through  the 
priesthood  of  God,  from  God  who  has  all  power  to  heal." 

Faith  of  Polynesians 
Down  in  New  Zealand  during  my  last  mission — and  incidental- 


158  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  3  Third,  Day 

ly  I  have  not  reported  my  last  mission  to  New  Zealand  when  I  was 
president  there.  I  will  wait  six  or  seven  years  to  do  that  and 
be  in  line  with  some  of  you  other  mission  presidents.  But  I  went 
to  a  place  there  one  day.  It  was  during  the  war  years.  A  young 
man  brought  his  child,  an  eight-month-old  child  to  me,  and  he 
said:  President  Cowley,  I  want  you  to  christen  our  baby."  I  said: 
"It  looks  like  quite  an  old  child  to  be  blessed.  Why  have  you 
not  brought  it  before?" 

"Oh,"  he  said,  "I  just  have  not  gotten  around  to  it." 

So  I  said,  "All  right,  what  is  the  name?"  And  he  told  me  the 
name,  and  I  was  just  about  to  bless  the  child  and  he  said:  "While 
you  are  giving  it  a  name,  please  give  it  its  vision.  It  was  born 
blind." 

Just  like  that — just  as  a  matter  of  fact!  "You  have  the  authority 
to  give  this  child  a  name  and  a  blessing  and  you  have  the  authority 
to  give  it  its  vision." 

I  was  overwhelmed.  I  was  doubtful,  but  I  knew  that  within 
the  being  of  that  Polynesian  there  was  the  simple  faith  of  a  child,  a 
faith  not  beclouded  by  psychology  or  any  of  the  learning  of  men  but 
a  simple  faith  in  God  and  the  promises  he  had  made  through  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ.  I  gave  that  child  its  name,  and  eventually  I  mustered 
up  enough  courage  to  bless  it  with  its  vision. 

President  Halversen  knows  the  little  boy.  I  saw  it  a  few  months 
ago.  He  is  now  six  or  seven  years  old,  running  all  over  the  place, 
and  he  can  see  as  well  as  I  can  see  this  day.  "Lay  your  hands  upon 
the  sick,  and  they  shall  recover." 

Story  of  Pearl  Shell  Diver 

I  would  like  to  add  a  story  or  two  here  to  those  which  have 
been  related  by  Bishop  Richards.  Down  in  Tahiti  where  I  have 
recently  visited- — and  I  could  tell  some  stories  about  traveling  on 
ships  down  there — our  people  down  there  have  a  seasonal  occupa- 
tion of  pearl  shell  diving,  and  our  men  are  the  best  pearl  shell  divers 
in  the  islands  of  French  Oceania.  Why  are  they  the  best  divers? 
Because  they  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  they  can  stay  under 
the  water  longer  than  the  others  who  do  not.  They  stay  under 
the  water  at  a  depth  of  ninety  feet  for  upwards  of  two  minutes  and 
forty  seconds.  They  dive  to  that  depth  and  bring  up  the  pearl 
shell  which  gives  them  part  of  their  means  of  support  for  the  re- 
mainder of  the  year  until  the  next  season  approaches. 

This  one  young  Latter-day  Saint  placed  his  pearl  shell  on  the 
shore  in  two  piles,  one  was  a  large  one  and  one  a  rather  small  one, 
and  when  the  trader  came  around  with  whom  he  had  the  contract  to 
sell  his  pearl  shell  the  trader  asked  him  about  the  small  pile. 
He  said:  "Is  that  yours?"  He  said:  "No,  that  is  not  mine." 

The  trader  said:    Where  did  it  come  from?" 

He  said:  "Oh,  I  dove  for  it." 

"Well,  why  is  it  not  yours?"  » 


ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY  159 

He  said:  "That  is  God's  pearl  shell." 
"Who  has  the  right  to  sell  it?" 
He  said:  "I  can  sell  it." 
"Well  then,  I  will  buy  it." 

"Yes,  you  may  buy  it,  but  not  at  the  contract  price.  You  will 
have  to  pay  the  market  price  for  God's  pearl  shell";  because  the 
market  price  had  gone  up  since  he  had  signed  the  contract. 

And  so  he  sold  God's  pearl  shell  at  the  market  price  and  his 
own  at  the  price  for  which  he  had  contracted.  And  when  I  inquired 
what  he  would  have  done  had  the  price  gone  down  instead  of  up, 
he  said:  "I  would  not  have  segregated  God's  pearl  shell.  I  would 
have  left  it  with  mine.  I  would  always  see  to  it  that  God  gets 
the  top  price  for  his  pearl  shell." 

How  would  you  like  to  have  a  partner  like  that,  brothers  and 
sisters?  When  you  men  are  dividing  up  your  pearl  shell  what  con- 
sideration do  you  give  to  the  price  which  should  be  paid  for  God's 
pearl  shell?  I  have  a  sneaking  idea  that  if  the  price  had  changed 
as  it  did  in  that  instance  that  some  of  us  would  have  tried  in  some 
way  to  have  obtained  the  market  price  rather  than  the  contract  price 
for  our  own. 

Honesty  in  Tithe-Paying 

I  had  a  little  mother,  and  I  still  have  her  down  in  New  Zealand. 
I  knew  her  on  my  first  mission  when  I  was  just  a  young  boy.  In 
those  days  she  called  me  her  son.  When  I  went  back  to  preside, 
she  called  me  her  father.    I  am  fearfully  and  wonderfully  made. 

Now,  on  one  occasion  I  called  in  as  I  always  did  when  I  visited 
that  vicinity,  to  see  this  grand  little  woman,  then  in  her  eighties, 
and  blind.  She  did  not  live  in  an  organized  branch,  had  no  contact 
with  the  priesthood  except  as  the  missionaries  visited  there.  We  had 
no  missionaries  in  those  days.    They  were  away  at  war. 

I  went  in  and  greeted  her  in  the  Maori  fashion.  She  was  out 
in  her  back  yard  by  her  little  fire.  I  reached  forth  my  hand  to  shake 
hands  with  her,  and  I  was  going  to  rub  noses  with  her  and  she 
said:    "Do  not  shake  hands  with  me,  Father." 

I  said:  "Oh,  that  is  clean  dirt  on  your  hands.  I  am  willing  to 
shake  hands  with  you.  I  am  glad  to.   I  want  to." 

She  said:  "Not  yet."  Then  she  got  on  her  hands  and  knees 
and  crawled  over  to  her  little  house.  At  the  corner  of  the  house 
there  was  a  spade.  She  lifted  up  that  spade  and  crawled  off  in 
another  direction,  measuring  the  distance  as  she  went.  She  finally 
arrived  at  a  spot  and  started  digging  down  into  the  soil  with  that 
spade.  It  finally  struck  something  hard.  She  took  out  the  soil 
with  her  hands  and  lifted  out  a  fruit  jar.  She  opened  that  fruit 
jar  and  reached  down  in  it,  took  something  out  and  handed  it  to 
me,  and  it  turned  out  to  be  New  Zealand  money.  In  American 
money  it  would  have  been  equivalent  to  one  hundred  dollars. 


160  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  3  •  Third  Day 

She  said:  "There  is  my  tithing.  Now  I  can  shake  hands  with 
the  priesthood  of  God." 

I  said:  "You  do  not  owe  that  much  tithing." 

She  said:  "I  know  it.  I  do  not  owe  it  now,  but  I  am  paying 
some  in  advance,  for  I  do  not  know  when  the  priesthood  of  God  will 
get  around  this  way  again." 

And  then  I  leaned  over  and  pressed  my  nose  and  forehead 
against  hers,  and  the  tears  from  my  eyes  ran  down  her  cheeks,  and  as 
I  left  her,  I  asked  God  in  my  heart  to  bring  down  upon  me  a  curse 
if  from  that  day  henceforth  and  forever  I  did  not  return  to  God 
his  pearl  shell,  one-tenth  of  all  that  should  ever  come  into  my  hands. 

I  love  this  work,  my  brothers  and  sisters.  I  thank  God  for  my 
missionary  companions.  The  traveling  which  I  do  is  sometimes 
hazardous,  but  I  love  it;  I  feel  the  protection  of  the  Almighty  God. 

Divine  Protection  in  Travels 

We  left  New  Zealand  three  or  four  weeks  ago,  and  I  was  on 
one  of  those  fine  clippers  of  the  air.  Two  hours  out  of  New  Zea- 
land we  struck  a  violent  storm.  The  first  thing  I  realized  was  that 
we  had  struck  something.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  we  had  been  struck 
by  lightning.  The  lightning  had  penetrated  the  nose  of  the  ship, 
and  that  lightning  ball  bounced  around  the  plane.  How  it  missed 
the  propellers,  I  do  not  know.  It  destroyed  one  stabilizer  on  the 
plane.  We  continued  on  our  way.  I  believe  from  that  moment 
until  we  landed  at  Nandi,  Fiji,  God  was  the  pilot  of  that  plane,  and 
I  was  his  servant,  praying  that  we  might  be  landed  safely  at  our 
destination. 

I  had  no  fear  in  my  heart.    I  know  that  God  looks  after  his 

own. 

I  was  on  a  little  ship  in  Tahiti,  a  little  submarine  chaser  of 
about  fifty  tons,  a  converted  submarine  chaser.  The  way  that  thing 
acted  I  am  sure  it  had  not  been  converted;  not  properly  so.  Eight 
days  I  was  on  that  submarine  chaser,  and  there  was  never  a  calm 
moment.  There  were  a  hundred  and  ten  live  pigs  on  the  deck  space, 
and  they  were  closed  in  by  crates  containing  chickens.  I  think 
Tahiti  is  the  only  place  in  the  world  where  roosters  crow  all  night. 
And  then  just  ahead  in  front  of  these  porcine  quadrupeds  and  the 
fowl,  were  thirty-eight  seasick  natives. 

President  Mitchell  and  I  were  in  a  tiny  cabin.  That  ship  tossed 
and  rolled.  We  never  had  our  clothes  off  for  six  days.  I  had  to  lie 
on  my  bunk  and  hang  on  to  some  pipes  overhead  to  keep  from 
being  catapulted  out  into  whatever  space  there  was  there,  and  I  have 
never  heard  such  a  symphony  in  my  life.  I  will  never  forget  it.  Pigs 
squealing,  roosters  crowing,  sick  natives  retching,  and  me  hanging 
on  for  dear  life.  But  I  was  not  seasick.  Never  have  I  been  seasick  or 
plane  sick  or  car  sick  or  train  sick.  I  have  been  sick,  but  it  has  never 
been  caused  by  vehicles  of  transportation. 


ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 


161 


God  Opens  the  Way 

I  left  Tahiti  in  a  freight  ship.  I  was  a  member  of  the  crew  of 
that  freight  ship.  It  was  the  only  way  I  could  get  on  the  ship. 
I  had  to  go  to  the  captain  and  ask  him  if  he  would  take  me  on  as 
a  passenger,  and  he  said:  "No,  we  are  not  allowed  to  take  pas- 
sengers." 

I  said:  "May  I  sign  on  as  a  member  of  the  crew?" 

He  said:  "I  think  that  can  be  arranged." 

And  so  I  signed  on  as  a  member  of  the  crew,  and  I  went  from 
there  to  New  Zealand.  I  never  did  find  out  what  my  duties  were 
on  that  ship  as  a  member  of  the  crew.  I  thought  for  a  time  that  I 
might  be  the  chaplain,  but  we  crossed  the  international  date  line 
Saturday  night,  and  when  I  woke  up  it  was  Monday,  so  Sunday  was 
scratched  right  out,  and  I  could  not  even  perform  my  duties  as  a 
chaplain. 

When  we  arrived  at  Samoa,  I  was  called  to  the  bridge  of  the 
ship.  The  captain  said  to  me:  "Do  you  know  where  Apia,  Samoa, 
is?" 

.    I  said:  "Yes,  you  are  just  passing  it." 

He  had  passed  our  port  of  destination  so  we  turned  back  and 
went  into  Apia.  From  there,  we  went  on  to  New  Zealand,  and 
before  they  started  doing  the  heavy  work  of  unloading  the  ship,  I 
signed  off  as  a  member  of  the  crew. 

God  opens  up  the  way,  brothers  and  sisters,  for  his  servants 
to  accomplish  their  work. 

Love  All  People 

I  see  sitting  before  me  now  one  or  two  of  our  good  Japanese 
members  from  the  Central  Pacific  Mission.  Some  of  the  finest  Saints 
we  have  in  this  Church  are  our  Japanese  Saints.  I  think  sixty-five 
percent  of  them  pay  a  full  tithing.  Most  of  them  keep  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  and  so  our  erstwhile  enemies  are  indeed  among  our  best 
Saints.    As  President  Kirkham  said,  let  us  love  all  people. 

I  love  the  people  of  my  missions  with  all  my  heart.  I  love  my 
missionary  companions.  They  are  doing  a  great  work.  They  are 
the  servants  of  God.  Way  down  in  far-off  Australia,  that  great 
commonwealth,  over  in  New  Zealand  and  back  up  into  the  Poly- 
nesian Islands,  your  sons  and  your  daughters  are  those  who  have 
gone  into  the  world  in  answer  to  the  commission  of  our  Lord  and 
Savior. 

God  bless  you  all.  I  leave  my  testimony  with  you  that  God 
lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God, 
and  these  are  men  of  God,  endowed  with  the  power  from  on  high  to 
be  the  leaders  of  God's  children  in  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness 
of  Times.  May  we  sustain  them  as  such  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


162  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  3  Third  Day 

President  George  Albert  Smith; 

You  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Matthew  Cowley  of  the  Quorum 
of  the  Twelve.  I  was  not  aware  when  Brother  Cowley  was  called 
to  preside  over  the  missions  of  the  South  Seas  that  he  could  not  be 
seasick.  I  think  Tie  is  the  only  one  of  the  Brethren,  probably,  who 
could  have  gone  through  what  he  went  through  and  come  back  re- 
porting as  well  as  he  has  done. 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

You  have  listened  to  Elder  Matthew  Cowley  of  the  Quorum  of 
the  Twelve.  I  was  not  aware  when  Brother  Cowley  was  called 
to  preside  over  the  missions  of  the  South  Seas  that  he  couldn't  be 
seasick  .  I  think  he  is  probably  the  only  one  of  the  brethren  that 
could  have  gone  through  what  he  went  through  and  come  back 
reporting  as  well  as  he  has. 

We  are  nearing  the  close  of  a  delightful  conference,  the  end  of 
the  third  day,  and  as  I  stand  here  for  just  a  few  moments,  I  crave 
an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers  that  I  may  be  able  to  say  some- 
thing that  will  be  helpful. 

Blessings  of  Conference 

I  am  sure  if  nothing  more  were  said,  this  great  congregation 
could  go  back  to  their  homes  and  truthfully  say,  "We  waited  upon 
the  Lord,  and  we  were  not  disappointed."  The  influence  in  this  house 
and  in  the  adjoining  properties  where  people  are  at  worship  at  this 
hour  is  such  that  with  all  my  heart  I  feel  to  express  my  gratitude  to 
the  Lord  that  he  has  heard  and  answered  the  prayers  that  have 
been  offered  and  that  he  has  fed  us  the  bread  of  life. 

This  congregation  is  made  up  of  members  from  many  parts 
of  the  world.  When  conference  adjourns,  no  doubt  you  will  re- 
turn to  your  homes.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  caution 
you  that  if  you  are  driving  on  the  highways  that  you  be  as  careful 
as  possible,  and  if  you  are  walking  on  the  streets  of  Salt  Lake 
City  that  you  likewise  be  careful. 

The  Lord  has  blessed  us  thus  far,  and  I  trust  that  as  we  finish 
our  conference  and  go  to  our  various  fields  of  labor,  we  may  know 
that  his  preserving  hand  has  been  over  us,  and  when  we  go  to  our 
homes,  we  may  bow  in  thanksgiving  and  gratitude  to  him  for  his 
many  blessings. 

Do  you  realize,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  you  are  only  a 
small  speck  in  the  great  universe  of  the  population  of  this  world — so 
few  in  number  that  by  comparison  we  are  insignificant?  However, 
you  will  find  no  other  place  in  the  world  this  day  where  there  will 
be  a  congregration  so  large  as  this  congregation,  most  of  whom  can 
testify  that  they  know  that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
and  that  we  are  his  children.  That  is  a  marvelous  blessing  when  we 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  163 


contemplate  the  predicament  that  many  countries  are  in  at  the  present 
time  while  here  we  are  at  peace;  here  we  are  enjoying  the  companion- 
ship of  one  another,  different  nationalities  and  the  descendants  of 
those  nationalities  meeting  here  as  sons  and  daughters  of  the  Living 
God.  Surely  not  anything  else  that  we  can  think  of  in  the  way  of  a 
blessing  would  take  the  place  of  the  assurance  we  enjoy. 

The  Gift  of  Language 

It  has  been  my  privilege  to  travel  in  many  parts  of  the  world. 
I,  too,  was  down  in  New  Zealand  where  Elder  Cowley  filled  his 
first  mission,  and  I  witnessed  the  affection  those  people  have  for 
him.  I  remember  one  experience.  Elder  Cowley  had  not  been 
there  for  twenty  years,  and  yet  the  first  meeting  that  we  attended 
at  their  huitau,  he  talked  fluently  to  the  people  in  their  own  language. 
There  was  present  an  educated  Irishman  who  was  the  secretary  of 
the  Princess  Tepueeta.  When  the  meeting  was  over,  he  took  me 
off  to  one  side  and  said: 

"How  do  you  account  for  this?  That  man  hasn't  been  down 
here  for  all  these  years.  I've  been  here  for  three  years  trying  to 
learn  this  language,  and  he  stands  there  and  talks  better  than  the 
natives  talk  in  their  own  tongue." 

The  Lord  does  bless  us,  and  I  am  glad  to  have  Elder  Cowley 
call  attention  to  the  fact  that  many  of  our  missionaries  need  to 
acquire  the  languages  of  the  natives  in  the  countries  where  they 
are  called  to  labor.  The  native  people  prefer  to  hear  the  gospel 
in  their  own  tongue.  I  hope  we  will  not  neglect  our  opportunities  to 
become  proficient  in  speaking  the  languages  of  the  peoples  among 
whom  we  do  missionary  work.  I  hope  we  will  give  the  Lord  a  chance 
to  help  us  learn  to  speak  the  tongue  of  the  people  to  whom  we  have 
been  sent  as  servants  of  the  living  God. 

Blessing  of  Eternal  Life 

If  you  were  to  take  from  the  world  today  the  membership  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  the  Book  of 
Mormon  and  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  were  wiped  out,  we 
would  have  a  world  without  any  hope  of  eternal  life  in  the  celestial 
kingdom.  The  people  of  the  world  wouldn't  even  know  what  it 
means.  I  don't  say  that  disparagingly,  but  I  am  trying  to  say  it  so 
we  will  appreciate  the  blessings  that  the  Lord  has  given  to  us.  We 
not  only  have  the  Holy  Bible,  that  great  volume  of  scripture  that  the 
Lord  has  preserved  all  these  centuries  and  handed  down  from  genera- 
tion to  generation  so  that  his  children  could  know  about  him  and  his 
desires  for  us,  but  we  also  have  these  other  great  books.  And  yet 
the  larger  proportion  of  the  population  of  this  world  do  not  now 
know  the  contents  of  the  Bible.  Most  of  those  who  have  read  it  and 
are  familiar  more  or  less  with  its  text  do  not  know  after  all  these 
years  how  to  interpret  it.    The  Lord  has  given  to  us  the  power  to 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Dag 


interpret  it.  He  gave  to  the  Prophet  Joseeph  Smith  the  privilege  of 
retranslating  it,  if  I  may  use  that  term. 


I  hold  in  my  hand  the  American  volume  of  scripture  called  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  containing  approximately  five  hundred  pages 
translated  from  gold  plates.  We  have  all  that  the  world  has,  the 
scripture  that  came  from  the  old  world,  but  we  have  the  scripture 
of  the  new  world  which  is  the  Book  of  Mormon  added  to  that; 
and  then,  in  addition,  I  hold  in  my  hand  another  book  of  approx- 
imately three  hundred  pages  containing  the  revelations  of  our  Heav- 
enly Father  given  in  these  latter-days.  We  also  have  the  Pearl  of 
Great  Price  containing  other  information  that  the  Lord  has  revealed, 
including  in  it  the  Book  of  Abraham  translated  from  papyri  found 
buried  with  mummies  in  the  catacombs  of  Egypt,  and  the  Book  of 
Moses,  revealed  by  the  power  of  God  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
This  also  constitutes  part  of  the  scripture  we  possess.  These  latter 
scriptures  assist  the  reader  to  understand  the  Holy  Bible.  There 
is  the  greatest  library  to  be  found  in  all  the  world.  There  isn't  any- 
thing else  like  it.  What  does  it  contain?  It  contains  what  your 
Father  and  mine  has  thought  of  enough  importance  to  preserve  and 
give  to  the  children  of  men  and  make  accessible  in  many  languages 
of  the  World.  These  scriptures  are  all  important  and  should  be 
understood  by  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  am  not  going  to  ask  you 
to  hold  up  your  hands  to  ascertain  how  many  here  assembled  have 
ever  read  these  books,  but  I  desire  to  call  your  attention  to  the  fact 
that  these  are  precious  truths,  and  they  contain  the  revealed  word 
of  the  Lord  printed  and  published  to  the  world  for  the  purpose  of 
preparing  his  children  for  a  place  in  the  celestial  kingdom.  That 
is  why  I  say  they  are  so  valuable.  Other  books  contain  copies, 
extracts,  from  some  of  these  books,  but  these  are  the  originals  as 
far  as  the  Lord  is  concerned,  and  he  has  given  them  to  us.  How 
thankful  we  ought  to  be  that  we  live  in  a  day  and  age  when  we  can 
read  his  advice  and  counsel  and  have  things  explained  that  other- 
wise might  be  obscure  and  uncertain  to  us. 


I  am  not  concerned  whether  or  not  you  have  the  books  of  the 
great  libraries  of  the  world  in  your  home,  provided  you  do  have  these 
books.  Think  of  the  millions  of  volumes  that  there  are  in  our  own 
Congressional  Library  at  Washington,  in  the  British  Library,  and 
in  the  libraries  of  other  countries,  millions  of  volumes — and  yet  all 
that  God  has  revealed  and  published  to  the  children  of  men  that  is 
necessary  to  prepare  them  for  a  place  in  the  celestial  kingdom  is 
contained  within  the  covers  of  these  sacred  books.  How  many  of 
us  know  what  they  contain?  I  frequently  go  into  homes  where  I 
see  all  the  latest  magazines.   I  find  the  books  that  are  advertised  as 


Latter-day  Scriptures 


Importance  of  Revealed  Word  of  God 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  165 


best  sellers  on  the  bookshelves.  If  you  were  to  throw  them  all  away 
and  retain  only  these  sacred  scriptures,  you  wouldn't  lose  what  the 
Lord  has  caused  to  be  written  and  made  available  for  us  all  to  enjoy. 
So,  brethren  and  sisters,  among  our  other  blessings  let  us  not  forget 
that  the  Lord  has  made  it  possible  for  us  to  have,  enjoy,  and  under- 
stand the  scriptures  and  to  have  his  word  that  has  been  given  down 
through  the  ages  for  the  salvation  of  his  children. 

Our  missionaries  are  out  in  the  world  today  trying  to  explain 
these  things  to  the  learned  and  other  men  of  the  world,  and  there  are 
many  learned  men  who  have  access  to  all  of  these  books  who  do 
not  believe  in  God,  who  do  not  know  that  we  are  living  eternal 
lives,  but  have  an  idea  that  when  we  die  that  is  the  end  of  every- 
thing. Yet  in  the  comparatively  small  organization  known  as  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  there  are  thousands 
of  men  and  women  and  some  children  who  know  that  we  are  the 
children  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  that  we  are  here  and  now  living 
eternal  lives,  that  the  gospel,  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  to 
all  those  who  will  believe  and  obey,  is  on  the  earth. 

Surely  we  ought  to  be  grateful  for  our  blessings.  Brethren 
and  sisters,  keep  this  library  where  you  can  find  it,  and  where  your 
children  will  find  it,  and  then  have  enough  interest  in  the  eternal 
salvation  of  those  boys  and  girls  that  are  in  your  home  that  you 
will  find  ways  and  means  to  interest  them  in  what  these  books  contain, 
that  they  may  know  how  precious  they  are  in  the  sight  of  their 
Heavenly  Father. 

Assurance  of  Eternal  Life 

We  have  been  taught  during  this  conference,  among  other 
things,  the  importance  of  family  prayers,  of  asking  a  blessing  upon 
the  food,  of  the  importance  and  sacredness  of  eternal  wedlock. 
We  have  been  taught  the  necessity  and  desirability  of  honoring 
the  Sabbath  day  to  keep  it  holy,  and  so  I  might  go  on  through  the 
advice  and  counsel  that  the  Lord  has  given.  Today  we  are  seated 
in  a  house  that  the  Lord  provided  for  us  that  we  might  come  together 
and  consider  all  these  blessings  under  the  influence  of  his  spirit. 
I  fear  sometimes  that  we  pay  little  attention  to  the  seriousness  of  this 
life,  and  that  we  take  it  too  much  for  granted  until  it  is  too  late. 
I  remember  being  on  a  train  one  day  with  a  man  who  was  born 
and  reared  in  the  Church.  We  were  returning  from  California, 
and  I  made  myself  known  to  him.  As  we  visited,  I  talked  to  him 
about  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  He  told  me  that  his  people  were 
members  of  the  Church,  but  he  didn't  understand  anything  about  it. 
And  he  said  as  we  discusssed  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  "These 
things  interest  me."  We  visited  quite  a  long  time,  and  when  we 
finished,  that  good  man,  I  believe  he  was  a  good  man,  said  to  me, 
"I  would  give  all  that  I  possess  to  have  the  assurance  that  you  have 
of  eternal  life."  I  said,  "My  brother,  you  don't  have  to  give  all  that 
you  possess  to  have  that  assurance.  All  you  have  to  do  is  to  search 


166  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  3  Third  Day 

the  scriptures  prayerfully.  Go  where  they  may  be  explained  to  you. 
Seek  the  truth,  and  the  beauty  of  the  truth  will  appeal  to  you,  and 
perhaps  without  much  of  an  effort  on  your  part,  and  I  am  sure  with- 
out giving  away  all  your  property,  you  can  know  as  I  know  that 
God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of 
the  Living  God,  and  that  we  are  living  eternal  lives." 

Teaching  of  Gospel  Principles 

Don't  let  your  children  grow  up  without  teaching  them  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Don't  wait  to  send  them  into 
the  mission  field  to  learn  what  the  gospel  means.  I  remember  when 
I  was  in  the  South  fifty-five  or  sixty  years  ago,  a  man  who  came  from 
a  large  family  said,  "I  don"t  know  what  to  say.  I  don't  know 
what  to  tell  these  people." 

"Why,"  one  of  the  brethren  said,  "teach  them  the  Bible.  Go 
and  get  your  Bible  and  read  Genesis."  He  said,  "I  don't  know  where 
Genesis  is  in  the  Bible,"  and  yet  he  had  gone  from  a  Latter-day 
Saint  community,  and  from  a  Latter-day  Saint  home  to  carry  the 
message  of  life  and  salvation  to  those  people  in  the  South.  How- 
ever, it  was  not  very  long  after  that  until  his  mind  was  changed. 
He  had  received  a  testimony  of  the  truth  through  study  and  prayer, 
and  he  knew  that  the  gospel  was  here,  and  he  was  able  to  stand 
on  his  feet  and  freely  bear  testimony  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
is  the  truth. 

Now,  fathers  and  mothers,  appreciate  your  children.  Don't 
turn  them  over  to  somebody  else  to  train  and  educate  in  regard 
to  matters  of  eternal  life.  That  is  your  privilege,  and  it  is  a 
privilege.  Teach  them  to  pray  and  walk  uprightly  before  the  Lord, 
and  then  in  time  of  need  they  can  go  to  him,  and  he  will  answer  their 
prayers.  It  will  be  astonishing  to  you  the  great  happiness  that  will 
come  into  your  home  that  you  theretofore  have  not  enjoyed,  if  you 
will  follow  this  counsel. 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  in 
the  celestial  kingdom  to  all  those  who  will  believe  and  obey  it.  There 
are  some  who  seem  to  have  the  idea  that  if  they  believe  it  and  their 
names  are  on  the  records  that  is  sufficient,  but  that  isn't  sufficient. 
Don't  let  them  go  on  in  that  blind  thoughtlessness.  Reach  out  after 
those  who  are  in  the  Church  and  those  who  are  out  of  it,  and  seek 
in  every  way  to  share  the  blesings  of  the  gospel  of  our  Lord  with 
them,  his  children.  That  is  what  we  are  expected  to  do.  Freely  we 
have  received,  and  freely  we  should  give.  When  we  return  to  our 
various  places  of  abode,  let  our  homes  from  now  on  be  sanctified  by 
prayer  and  with  gratitude  and  thanksgiving,  so  that  those  who  come 
there  might  feel  the  influence  and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  be  pre- 
pared to  bear  testimony  of  the  truth  of  he  gospel  of  our  Lord. 

Name  of  the  Church 

This  is  our  Father's  Church.    He  gave  it  its  name.  Only 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  167 


today  a  good  sister  handed  me  a  paper,  something  that  she  herself 
had  prepared.  Among  the  things  that  were  written  there  was  her 
testimony  of  the  true  name  of  this  Church,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 
She  wanted  to  know  why  we  don't  pay  attention  to  what  the  Lord 
has  said  about  its  name.  We  sometimes  call  ourselves  Mormons, 
not  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  she  wanted  to 
know  why.  "Why,"  she  says,  "the  Lord  has  made  it  just  as  plain 
as  can  be  what  his  Church  should  be  called.  He  called  it  by  the 
name  of  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ."  In  another  place  he  said  that  if 
it  was  the  church  of  some  other  man  it  would  bear  his  name, 
the  name  of  the  other  man.  She  wrote  it  out  in  her  own  thoughtful, 
simple  way.  And  so,  brethren  and  sisters,  when  you  go  away  from 
here,  you  may  be  associating  with  various  denominations  of  the 
world,  but  remember  that  there  is  only  one  Church  in  all  the  world 
that  by  divine  command  bears  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord. 
I  am  sure  we  will  show  our  appreciation  of  that  great  and  wonder- 
ful name  by  respecting  it,  and  not  be  found  calling  ourselves 
Mormons  as  the  world  nicknames  us.  The  name  Mormon 
to  many  people  in  the  world  means  anything  but  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  In  fact  they  do  not  know  what  it  means.  I  con- 
gratulate you  as  members  of  the  Church,  that  you  belong  to  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ;  live  in  the  age  when  his  Church  has  been 
organized  and  has  been  given  his  name.  If  we  are  faithful  and  de- 
votetl  to  the  end  of  our  lives,  when  we  go  to  the  other  side  we  will 
find  we  shall  not  belong  to  some  other  Church  such  as  the  Church 
of  St.  John  or  St.  Peter  or  St.  Paul  or  Mormon,  or  that  of  any  of  the 
Apostles  or  great  men  who  have  lived  upon  the  earth,  but  we  will 
find  that  we  belong  to  the  Church  of  the  Son  of  God,  Jesus  Christ, 
our  Lord.  Let  us  remember  that,  and  let  us  respect  it,  brethern 
and  sisters,  and  not  be  careless  about  it. 

Prayer  and  Blessing 

Now,  in  conclusion,  I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  may  be  in  our  lives,  in  our  hearts,  and  in  our  homes,  that  each 
of  us  may  go  from  here  with  a  renewed  determination  that  we  will 
be  worthy  of  the  great  honor  that  has  come  to  us  of  being  members 
of  this  great  organization,  grateful  for  all  of  our  blessings,  and  for 
this  wonderful  house  we  worship,  in,  this  great  choir  that  sings  for 
us  and  has  sung  so  many  years  for  the  world,  and  grateful  for  the 
privilege  of  associating  together  in  our  wards  and  branches  in  the 
Church  under  the  influence  of  the  spirit  of  the  Lord. 

I  pray  that  the  love  of  the  gospel  of  our  Lord  will  burn  in  our 
souls  and  enrich  our  lives,  that  it  will  cause  husbands  to  be  kinder 
to  wives,  and  wives  to  be  kinder  to  husbands,  parents  to  children, 
and  children  to  parents  because  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which 
is  a  gospel  of  love  and  kindness.  It  will  cause  us,  if  we  are  living  as 
we  should,  to  love  our  neighbors  as  ourselves,  and  go  out  of  our 


168  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  3  Third  Dag 

way,  if  possible,  to  help  them  understand  better  the  purpose  of  life. 
These  are  some  of  our  privileges. 

Now,  I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  may  be  with  you,  and 
as  far  as  I  have  power  and  the  authority  of  the  priesthood  I  bless 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  power  of  the  Lord  may  be  and 
go  with  you,  and  that  his  peace  and  his  love  may  abide  with 
you,  and  that  you  will  so  live  that  you  will  be  worthy  of  these 
blessings  as  long  as  you  live  upon  the  earth,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 

President  George  Albert  Smith: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  sing  "The  Hallelujah  Chorus,"  and 
the  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Newel  P.  Baker  of  the 
Burley  Stake,  Burley,  Idaho,  after  which  this  Conference  will  ad- 
journ. 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  has  been  furnished  by  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir,  with  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting  and  Elder 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

I  want  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  appreciation  and  grati- 
tude to  these  people  who  come  and  sing  for  us,  and  not  only  for  us 
but  who  sing  for  the  world,  week  after  week  and  year  after  year. 
I  am  sure  they  are  appreciated  by  millions  of  people  not  members 
of  the  Church.  • 

Tonight  at  7:00  o'clock  in  this  building  the  Deseret  Sunday 
School  Union  will  hold  its  service.  You  are  all  invited  to  be  present, 
and  I  am  sure  you  will  enjoy  being  here. 

The  choir  will  now  sing,  and  we  will  draw  our  meeting  to  a  close. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  "The  Hallelujah  Chorus,"  after 
which  President  Newel  P.  Baker,  President  of  the  Burley  Stake, 
offered  the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  sine  die. 

GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 

The  General  Priesthood  meeting  of  the  Church  was  held  in  the 
Tabernacle  Saturday  evening,  October  2,  at  7:00. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  presided  and  conducted  the  ser- 
vices. 

The  men  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  musical  numbers 
for  this  session,  Elder  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting.  Elder 
Alexander  Schreiner  was  at  the  organ  console. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in  singing:  "Do  What  Is 
Right." 

President  A.  George  Raymond  of  the  Mount  Logan  Stake  of- 
fered the  opening  prayer. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD 


169 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus  sang:  "A  Poor  Wayfaring 
Man  of  Grief." 

President  Smith: 

I  am  sure  there  is  a  large  number  of  members  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  present  tonight,  and  I  feel  to  call  the  Presiding  Bishop  to 
come  to  the  stand  and  say  to  them  what  may  be  in  his  heart.  I  realize 
that  the  Presiding  Bishopric  had  their  meeting  last  night  with  the 
bishops  and  others,  but  I  see  a  good  many  members  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  here  and  I  am  sure  they  would  like  to  hear  this  fine  Pre- 
siding Bishop  of  the  Church,  Bishop  LeGrand  Richards. 

BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

Brethren,  I  need  not  tell  you  that  this  is  a  great  surprise.  I  had 
my  turn  at  conference  and  last  night  I  had  an  opportunity  to  talk 
to  the  Bishops  and  the  day  before  to  the  Relief  Society,  but  there 
is  no  one  I  would  rather  talk  to  than  the  boys  of  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood, if  there  were  not  so  many  of  the  dads  here  and  so  many  of  the 
brethren  sitting  here  on  the  stand.  But  I  do  appreciate  the  privilege 
of  being  here  and  being  invited  to  say  a  few  words  in  this  Priesthood 
meeting  for  I  cannot  help  but  feel  that  if  every  man  and  every  boy 
who  is  honored  of  the  Lord  to  bear  the  Holy  Priesthood  could  just 
realize  the  responsibility  resting  upon  his  shoulders  in  that  respect,  it 
would  be  marvelous  thing. 

"The  Light  of  the  World" 

I  would  like  to  preface  what  I  say  tonight  by  reading  a  few 
words  from  the  5th  chapter  of  St.  Matthew  and  I  will  commence  with 
the  13th  verse,  for  the  Lord  said: 

Ye  are  the  salt  of  the  earth;  but  if  the  salt  have  lost  his  savour, 
wherewith  shall  it  be  salted?  it  is  thenceforth  good  for  nothing,  but  to  be 
cast  out,  and  to  be  trodden  under  foot  of  men. 

Ye  are  the  light  of  the  world.  A  city  that  is  set  on  an  hill  cannot 
be  hid.  Neither  do  men  light  a  candle,  and  put  it  under  a  bushel,  but  on 
a  candlestick;  and  it  giveth  light  unto  all  that  are  in  the  house. 

Let  your  light  so  shine  before  men,  that  they  may  see  your  good 
works,  and  glorify  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven. 

I  cannot  think  of  anyone  in  the  Church  who  has  a  greater  re- 
sponsibility to  let  his  light  so  shine  before  men  that  they  seeing  his 
good  works  may  glorify  our  Father  in  Heaven  than  the  brethren  who 
hold  the  priesthood,  both  the  Melchizedek  and  the  Aaronic. 

It  was  Peter  of  old,  who  in  addressing  the  Saints  of  his  day, 
made  this  declaration: 


170 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


But  ye  are  a  chosen  generation,  a  royal  priesthood,  an  holy  nation, 
a  peculiar  people;  that  ye  should  show  forth  the  praises  of  him  who  hath 
called  you  out  of  darkness  into  his  marvelous  light. 

A  Royal  Priesthood 

Now,  brethren,  we  are  just  as  much  a  royal  priesthood  today 
as  the  priesthood  was  in  the  days  of  Peter.  The  Lord  has  called 
us  out  of  the  world  that  we  might  show  forth  the  praises  of  him  who 
hath  called  us  out  of  darkness  into  his  marvelous  light  and  there  is 
not  a  day  of  our  lives,  that  we  do  not  have  an  opportunity  to  show 
forth  his  praises  because  the  world  looks  upon  us,  they  expect  more 
of  us  than  from  those  who  are  not  members  of  our  Churh,  and  we 
can  hardly  stoop  to  do  the  things  that  others  do.  To  illustrate  what 
I  mean  along  this  line:  When  I  was  attending  a  conference  in  San 
Diego  during  the  war  we  had  about  35  boys  in  uniform  present. 
We  called  some  of  them  to  speak  and  one  lieutenant  made  a  state- 
ment something  like  this.  He  said:  "When  I  first  entered  the  ser- 
vice I  went  back  East  to  attend  an  officers'  training  school"  and  he 
'said,  "one  day  when  we  were  sitting  in  the  reception  room,  the  boys 
started  telling  dirty  stories,  and  when  my  turn  came  I  told  one  too. 
That  night  when  I  went  to  go  to  bed  my  companion,  not  a  member 
of  the  Church,  turned  to  me  and  said  'I  didn't  think  you  would  do 
it.'  "  He  kept  that  in  his  heart  all  day  long  since  he  had  heard 
that  companion  of  his  tell  the  dirty  story  because  he  knew  that  he 
was  a  Mormon  boy  and  no  doubt  this  lieutenant  had  already  told 
him  something  about  the  Church,  therefore,  he  did  not  thing  he 
would  do  it;  and  that  lieutenant  as  he  stood  there  in  that  stake  con- 
ference said  "That  was  the  best  sermon  I  have  listened  to  for  many 
a  day  and  it  just  keeps  ringing  in  my  ears  until  the  present,  'I  did 
not  think  you  would  do  it'  and  I'll  tell  you,  I  have  not  done  it  since 
that  time." 

Exemplary  Serviceman 

Illustrating  another  case.  We  have  heard  so  many  lovely  things 
about  our  boys  who  have  been  away  in  the  service  and  returned  to 
us  that  have  not  hid  their  light  under  a  bushel.  The  Lord  has  called 
us  out  of  the  world  to  be  a  light  unto  the  world  and  in  all  man's 
sight  we  cannot  afford  to  let  our  light  go  out.  I  received  a  letter, 
it  was  published  in  the  Church  Section  of  the  Deseret  News,  so  you 
may  have  read  it,  from  a  missionary  in  California.  He  said  he  and 
his  wife  were  laboring  in  this  particular  town  and  he  said  the  atti- 
tude of  the  people  had  literally  changed  toward  the  Mormons  be- 
cause there  had  been  so  many  Mormon  boys  there  in  uniform  and 
they  had  lived  such  fine  lives  they  had  attracted  the  attention  of  the 
people.  Then  he  gave  one  specific  illustration.  He  said  one  of  the 
ladies  clubs  in  the  town  was  giving  a  luncheon  at  the  hotel  and  the 
hostess  had  an  extra  plate  placed  at  the  table  and  when  the  guests 
came  she  said  we  will  invite  the  first  soldier  who  comes  along  to 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD 


171 


occupy  this  extra  place  at  the  table.  It  happened  to  be  a  Mormon 
boy,  and  thank  the  Lord  he  was  a  good  one;  the  Lord  had  called 
him  out  of  the  world  to  be  a  light  unto  the  world  and  he  did  not 
hide  his  light  under  a  bushel,  and  when  the  women  passed  the 
coffee  around  he  would  not  touch  it.  I  do  not  think  he  thought  of 
the  harm  a  cup  of  coffee  would  do  his  body,  just  one  cup,  the  bishop 
wasn't  there  to  see  what  he  was  going  to  do,  whether  he  took  it 
or  not,  his  mother  and  father  were  not  there  to  see  whether  he  would 
turn  it  away;  neither  was  his  best  girl,  but  he  knew  that  the  all- 
seeing  eye  of  God  was  upon  him,  he  knew  he  bore  the  priesthood 
of  God,  he  knew  the  Lord  looked  to  him  as  the  salt  of  the  earth  and 
if  the  salt  has  lost  its  savour,  wherewith  shall  it  be  salted,  and  he 
would  not  touch  it.  They  offered  him  tea  and  he  would  not  touch 
tea.  They  asked  him  where  he  was  raised,  and  finally  when  they 
were  through  eating  they  passed  the  cigarettes  around,  imagine 
women  doing  this — shame  on  the  women — but  this  boy  would  not 
touch  the  cigarettes,  and  one  of  these  women  said,  "I  resolved  that 
if  ever  a  Mormon  elder  called  at  my  door  I  would  let  him  in,  I 
would  like  to  know  more  about  a  people  that  could  raise  a  boy  like 
that  young  man  who  sat  at  our  table."  And  when  that  letter  was 
written  that  very  woman  was  a  very  earnest  investigator  of  the 
Church. 

I  told  that  story  in  the  Assembly  Hall  sometime  back  and  at  the 
close  of  the  meeting  a  young  man  walked  up  to  me  and  said,  "Bishop, 
I  am  that  young  man."  I  said,  "No  kidding?"  He  said,  "No  sir, 
I  am  that  young  man."  I  would  not  be  surprised  if  he's  in  this 
audience  tonight.  I  said,  "Is  the  story  correct?"  He  said,  "Just 
exactly."   I  said,  "What  are  you  doing  in  the  Church  now?" 

"Why,  I'm  bishop  of  such-and-such  ward." 

That  is  the  kind  of  men  the  Lord  wants  to  do  his  work  among 
the  people,  not  the  kind  that  go  with  the  crowd  and  do  what  the 
crowd  does,  but  the  kind  that  have  the  courage  to  let  their  light  shine 
before  men,  because  the  Lord  has  called  us  out  of  the  world  to  be  a 
light  unto  the  world. 

Reputation  for  Honesty 

I  would  like  to  say  a  word  that  comes  out  of  my  experience  at  a 
conference  last  week.  I  met  a  new  convert  to  the  Church.  He 
had  served  in  a  branch  presidency  in  the  East. before  coming  West, 
and  I  said,  "How  are  you  enjoying  living  among  us?"  He  said, 
"Very  much,  but  I  have  been  disappointed."  I  said,  "Why?"  He 
said,  "I  have  found  that  some  of  the  brethren  are  not  very  careful 
what  kind  of  financial  deals  they  make  and  how  well  they  treat 
friends  that  come  within  their  midst."  That  made  me  feel  bad  be- 
cause "ye  are  the  salt  of  the  earth  and  if  the  salt  hath  lost  its 
savour,  wherewith  shall  the  earth  be  salted?"  Imagine  how  I  felt 
to  get  that  report  as  compared  with  the  one  I  received  down  in  Miami 
when  I  was  president  of  the  Southern  States  Mission.   I  was  invited 


172  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

into  the  home  of  one  of  our  brethren  who  stood  high  in  financial 
and  social  circles.  He  said,  "If  you  will  stay  over  night  I  will  invite 
my  friends  into  my  home  and  let  you  tell  them  why  I  am  a  member 
of  the  Church."  Of  course,  I  could  not  run  away  from  an  opportun- 
ity like  that;  so  when  the  crowd  was  gathered,  about  35  prominent 
business  people  of  Miami,  he  stood  up  and  said,  "You  all  know  I 
am  a  Mormon,  but,"  he  said,  "you  don't  know  why  I  am  a  Mormon. 
I  have  invited  President  Richards  tonight  to  tell  you  why  I  am  a 
Mormon  and  I  want  to  tell  you  that  my  membership  in  the  Mormon 
Church  means  more  to  me  than  anything  else." 

At  the  close  of  the  meeting  a  man  came  up  by  the  name  of 
Knowlton  and  said,  "My  first  experience  with  the  Mormons  was 
when  I  went  out  to  Arizona.  There,"  he  said,  "I  worked  in  an  im- 
plement house,  a  cash  store  that  never  gave  time  on  anything.  One 
day  a  man  came  in  and  wanted  $200  credit  for  about  60  days,  and 
I  said,  'No,  we  don't  do  any  credit  business'  and  the  man  said, 
'would  you  mind  asking  the  boss?'  So  I  went  to  the  owner  of  the 
store  and  the  owner  said,  'Who  is  this  man?'  When  I  gave  him 
the  name,  'Oh,'  he  said,  'he  is  a  Mormon  bishop,  let  him  have  any- 
thing he  wants,'  and  he  gave  him  the  credit."  He  said:  "After  that 
whenever  a  Mormon  came  into  the  store  and  wanted  anything  I 
did  not  even  bother  the  boss  about  it." 

Wouldn't  it  be  marvelous  if  every  Latter-day  Saint  could  be 
trusted  like  that? 

You've  heard  President  Grant's  story  about  how  the  Consolidat- 
ed Wagon  &  Machine  Co.  used  to  sell  the  paper  of  the  Mormon 
farmers  to  a  non-Mormon  banker  here  in  Salt  Lake  at  100  cents  on 
the  dollar  because  the  farmers  never  defaulted,  but  somehow  or  other, 
there  are  those  among  us  who  think  that  if  they  can  do  a  shrewd 
thing  and  outwit  their  neighbors  and  their  friends  with  whom  they 
do  business,  that  it  is  good  business,  and  they  classify  it  as  business. 
I  want  to  tell  you  one  more  story: 

The  Effect  of  Conversion 

When  I  was  president  of  the  Southern  States  Mission  I  was 
crossing  the  state  of  Florida  one  day  with  one  of  our  brethren  who 
went  there  from  the  West,  a  grand  character.  He  said,  "Brother 
Richards,  there  is  a  new  convert  living  over  here.  He  would  be 
thrilled  if  we  would  visit  him."  I  said,  "Let  us  call  on  him."  And 
we  did.   This  was  his  story: 

He  said,  "I  used  to  be  a  fruit  merchant  in  these  parts.  I  bought 
up  the  entire  product  of  these  fruit  farmers  and  sold  it  on  the  New 
York  fruit  market."  He  said,  "When  I  heard  of  Mormonism  and 
met  the  elders  I  joined  the  Church  and  began  to  think  of  all  the 
shrewd  deals  I  had  made  as  a  fruit  merchant."  He  said,  "One  day 
I  left  my  home  and  took  my  check  book  in  my  pocket,  and  when  I 
returned"  he  said,  "I  had  spent  $3,000  just  among  my  neighbors  and 
friends,  to  try  to  even  up  some  of  the  shrewd  deals  I  had  made." 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD 


173 


He  said,  "I  felt  like  I  could  then  look  my  neighbors  in  the  face  and 
tell  them  that  I  was  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints." 

"Ye  are  a  chosen  generation,  a  royal  priesthood,  a  holy  nation, 
a  peculiar  people  that  ye  should  show  forth  the  praise  of  Him  who 
hath  called  you  out  of  darkness  into  His  marvelous  light,"  and  may 
your  light  never  go  out  in  the  presence  of  your  fellowmen  no  matter 
where  you  go,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  MCKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

While  listening  to  Bishop  Richards  I  was  reminded  of  an  inci- 
dent in  the  life  of  Superintendent  Nelson,  formerly  Utah  State 
Superintendent  of  Public  Instruction.  During  the  latter  part  of  his 
life  he  was  sorely  afflicted,  and  went  back  East  to  have  performed 
a  very  difficult,  indeed  dangerous,  operation.  His  affliction  was 
so  serious  that  doctors  hesitated  about  operating  on  him.  While 
considering  the  matter  they  asked  him  several  questions  relating  to 
his  private  life.  They  inquired  whether  he  was  addicted  to  the  use 
of  tobacco.  He  answered:  "No."  Whether  he  indulged  in  in- 
toxicants. He  said:  "No."  Then  they  touched  more  vitally  upon 
his  life  and  asked  him  whether  he  had  had  any  venereal  disease. 
Superintendent  Nelson  said,  "Why  no,  doctor,  I  am  a  Mormon." 

"Well,"  said  the  doctor,  "what  the  h          does  that  matter?" 

"Well,  that  means  that  we  do  not  indulge  in  these  things.  It 
means  that  I  never  have  used  tobacco,  that  I  never  have  indulged  in 
whiskey,  and  that  I  have  lived  a  virtuous  life  and  have  known  only 
one  woman  and  she  is  my  wife." 

The  doctor  was  surprised.  He  used  the  word  astonished  and 
said:  "If  you  have  lived  that  kind  of  life  we  are  going  to  operate 
on  you." 

They  did  so,  and  Superintendent  Nelson  returned  home  and 
continued  his  service  here  as  State  Superintendent  of  Public  In- 
struction. 

Tonight  President  Raymond,  in  his  opening  prayer,  expressed 
two  very  important  thoughts.  One  was  an  invocation  that  God 
would  enable  us  to  appreciate  our  responsibilities;  and  the  other, 
an  appeal  that  we  may  set  proper  examples,  "that  we  might  be  a 
light  to  others."  I  hope  the  Lord  will  answer  that  invocation,  and 
that  we  as  men  who  hold  the  priesthood  may  realize  its  value. 

The  Value  of  the  Priesthood 

I  have  told  you  before  of  a  little  incident  that  happened  in  front 
of  the  Japanese  Emperor's  palace  in  Tokyo.  Three  or  four  of  us, 
Mormon  missionaries,  were  there,  and  with  us  a  Japanese  convert, 
a  carver  of  ivory,  wearing  the  cloak  of  the  ordinary  working  man. 


174 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


As  we  stood  there,  I  noticed  the  obeisance  this  Japanese,  though  a 
member  of  the  Church,  paid  the  grounds  and  particularly  the  palace. 
I  turned  to  him  and  said:  "Do  you  know,  Brother  Watanabe,  that 
you  have  something  which  is  of  more  value  than  all  the  wealth  you 
are  looking  at,  and  something  which  the  Emporer  cannot  have  un- 
less he  follows  the  same  road  that  you  have  followed?" 

The  man  looked  up  in  surprise  to  think  that  he,  a  humble 
carver,  would  have  something  which  was  of  more  value  than  the 
Emperor's  palace  or  all  his  possessions.  And  through  the  inter- 
preter, Brother  Stimpson,  he  said:    "What  is  it?" 

"Why,"  I  said,  "it  is  the  priesthood  of  Almighty.  You  are  an 
Elder  in  the  Church  of  Christ  and  that  is  of  more  worth  to  you  than 
all  the  wealth  you  are  now  looking  at." 

I  pray  that  we  may  so  sense  the  value  of  the  priesthood,  and 
that  every  deacon  in  this  Church  will  realize  that  when  he  is  given 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood  he  is  set  apart  among  his  fellows,  that  he 
is  different  from  others.  He  cannot  with  impunity  swear  as  other 
boys  may  swear,  he  cannot  participate  in  pranks  in  the  neighborhood 
as  other  boys  may  participate,  he  stands  apart.  That  is  what  it 
means  to  a  twelve  year  old  boy,  and,  bishops,  that  is  just  what  you 
should  explain  to  them  when  you  choose  them  to  be  deacons.  Do 
not  just  call  them  up  and  ordain  them,  but  have  a  talk  with  them  and 
let  them  realize  what  it  means  to  be  given  the  Aaronic  Priesthood. 
In  the  boyhood  area  these  boys  so  chosen  and  instructed  should 
exert  an  influence  for  good. 

Obligation  to  Set  Worthy  Examples 

The  second  part  was  example.  It  is  our  obligation  when  we 
accept  the  priesthood  to  set  an  example  worthy  of  imitation  by  our 
fellows.  It  is  not  what  we  say  that  will  influence  them.  It  is  what 
we  do.  It  is  what  we  are.  One  reputed  to  be  the  wisest  American 
said:  "What  you  are  thunders  so  loud  in  my  ears  I  cannot  hear 
what  you  say,"  referring  to  the  radiation  of  character  from  each  of 
us. 

As  I  have  sat  here,  thrilled  with  this  inspiring  audience,  and 
"thrilled"  is  the  word,  my  mind  wandered  out  to  as  many  more  in 
our  wards,  stakes,  who  never  come  here,  and  many  who  do  not  care 
to  come.  It  is  our  duty  to  reach  them,  kindly,  as  neighbors,  official- 
ly, as  ward  teachers,  officially,  as  members  of  quorums  and  officers 
in  quorums.    That  is  our  obligation. 

Reopening  of  Japanese  Mission 

But  that  is  not  the  message  which  I  have  for  you  tonight.  In 
giving  it  I  am  not  going  to  occupy  much  time.  I  have  just  a  few 
words  to  say  regarding  our  missionary  work.  And  may  I  report 
for  your  information  and  satisfaction,  I  am  sure,  that  recently 
five  native  Japanese  missionaries  left  Honolulu,  properly  set  apart 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD 


175 


to  go  back  to  Japan  and  preach  the  gospel  in  their  native  tongue. 
We  have  come  some  distance,  have  we  not,  since  that  Japanese 
mission  was  opened?  And  in  addition  to  the  elders,  two  Japanese 
sisters  have  accepted  their  calls  and  are  going  over  there  to  help 
President  Clissold  in  that  great  work. 

Let  me  say  in  passing  that  Brother  Watanabe  remained  true 
all  through  the  time  that  the  Church  was  absent  from  there  and  he 
died  holding  his  priesthood;  and  his  daughter,  I  believe  is  over  there 
now,  active  in  the  Church. 

"Go  Ye  Therefore  and  Teach  All  Nations" 

You  will  be  pleased  to  hear  also  that  we  recently  received  a 
cable  from  President  Stover  in  Germany  that  we  may  have  a  few 
missionaries  now  in  East  Germany.  The  way  is  opening  up  in  all 
the  world  and  now,  as  perhaps  never  before,  those  who  hold  the 
priesthood  may  fulfill  the  injunction  given  by  the  Savior  to  his 
Twelve  wherl  he  said:  "Go  ye  therefore  and  teach  all  nations, 
baptizing  them  in  the  name  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son  and  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  teaching  them  to  observe  all  things  whatsoever  I  have 
commanded  you  and  lo,  I  am  with  you  alway,  even  unto  the  end  of 
the  world." 

It  is  most  inspiring  to  see  how  eagerly  our  young  men  and  young 
women  are  seeking  the  opportunity  to  fulfill  that  injunction,  but 
brethren,  in  missionary  work  the  power  of  example  is  most  important. 
It  is  a  glorious  thing  for  a  young  man  to  be  sent  into  the  mission 
field.  It  is  a  great  opportunity  for  him.  At  the  dinner  table  today 
friends  commented  upon  the  number  of  our  missionaries  in  different 
parts  of  the  world.  What  a  culture  they  bring  into  our  community! 
One  guest  had  two  sons  in  Germany.  He  mentioned  another  in 
France,  and  another  in  one  of  the  missions  in  the  United  States. 
Another  guest  mentioned  two  in  Norway,  one  in  France,  one  in 
Argentine,  and  so  they  are  in  different  parts  of  the  world. 

Worthiness  of  Missionaries 

What  a  wonderful  thing  it  is;  but,  brethren,  missionaries  are 
called  not  for  individual  blessings.  They  are  called  to  preach  the 
gospel,  to  represent  the  Church.  The  blessings  come  inevitably  as 
they  do  their  duty,  and  it  is  most  unfortunate  if  a  young  man  leaves 
your  ward  to  represent  the  Church  who  does  so  unworthily.  It 
injures  him,  breaks  his  parents'  hearts,  reflects  upon  the  ward,  and 
it  might  blight  some  souls  who  otherwise  would  come  into  the 
Church. 

And  so,  I  am  asked  tonight  to  plead  with  you  bishops  and 
presidents  of  the  stakes  to  be  more  careful  in  your  inquiries  into  the 
worthiness  of  the  missionaries  whom  you  recommend.  Will  you, 
before  calling  them  or  interviewing  them,  just  look  over  the  mis- 
sionary recommendation  which  you  are  going  to  sign?    Do  not  just 


176 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


put  it  in  the  hand  of  the  missionary  and  let  him  fill  the  blanks, 
but  you  note  the  significance  of  these  questions.  If  he  is  married, 
please  inquire  into  the  condition  of  his  family.  Is  he  divorced  or 
is  she  divorced?  Please  state  why  and  see  whether  or  not  he  or 
she  is  worthy  to  go  out  and  preach  the  sacredness  of  the  marriage 
covenant  and  the  ideals  of  the  Church  in  regard  to  homebuilding. 

Standards  of  Morality 

Under  morality,  answer  sincerely  before  you  put  this  in  the 
hands  of  the  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  Are  you  satis- 
fied, after  thorough  investigation,  that  he  or  she  conforms  to  Church 
standards,  aye,  in  chastity.  The  world  has  difficulty  in  believing 
that  young  men  in  our  Church  grow  to  manhood  as  chaste  and  pure 
as  virgins.  I  have  had  them  say  they  did  not  believe  it;  they  did 
not  believe  that  any  young  men  could  do  that.  But  I  tell  them 
such  is  the  fact,  and  that  it  is  the  standard  of  the  Church  for  young 
men  as  well  as  for  young  women  to  keep  themselves  unspotted  from 
the  world.  In  the  Church  there  is  but  the  single  standard  of  moral- 
ity and  that  applies  to  young  men  as  well  as  to  young  women.  See 
to  it  that  prospective  missionaries  realize  what  this  means,  no  matter 
what  false  teaching  they  have  had  in  psychology  or  in  other  classes 
about  "inhibitions"  and  so  on.  The  standard  of  the  Church  is  right; 
it  is  divine;  it  contributes  to  manhood  and  virtuous  womanhood, 
happy  homes,  perpetuity  of  the  nation. 

Are  you  satisfied  through  investigation  that  he  or  she  conforms 
to  the  Church  in  the  observance  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom?  And 
note  this,  in  integrity.  Is  there  anybody  in  the  ward  who  will  say: 
"Well,  he  has  cheated  me.  He  is  not  worthy.  If  that  is  the  kind  of 
men  they  have  to  send  out,  well  then,  I  am  done  with  the  Church." 

These  pointed  questions  are  put  in  the  recommend  purposely, 
and  they  mean  something,  because  those  who  go  out  to  represent 
the  Church  are  chosen.  They  are  set  apart.  They  are  leaders. 
They  are  teachers.  They  are  ambassadors  of  truth.  Please,  when 
you  bring  these  young  men  and  young  women  to  the  members  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  and  place  in  the  hands  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  this  written  recommendation  with  your  signature,  be  sure 
that  you  have  made  a  thorough  investigation,  because  it  is  embar- 
rassing, very  embarrassing,  to  the  young  man  to  be  rejected  as  a 
representative. 

Selective  Service  Requirements 

Another  point.  From  questions  received  in  person  and  in 
writing  it  is  evident  that  there  are  some  problems  in  the  minds  of 
bishops  and  the  stake  presidents  as  to  whom  they  should  recommend 
for  missionary  service  in  the  light  of  the  recent  selective  service.  In 
answer  to  these  inquiries  we  offer  the  following  suggestions,  without 
going  into  many  details.  Young  men  may  continue  to  be  recommended 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD 


177 


for  missionary  service  as  follows: 

Those  who  have  reached  the  age  of  twenty  years,  or  approxi- 
mately that  age,  or,  young  men  under  twenty  years  of  age  who  have 
had  either  previous  military  service  or  two  years  of  college. 

If  a  young  man  receives  his  notice  of  induction  from  the  selec- 
tive service  before  he  enters  the  missionary  home,  the  Church  will 
excuse  him  from  missionary  service.  In  other  words,  if  the  young 
man  receives  his  call  in  November  to  enter  the  missionary  home,  let 
us  say,  in  the  following  May,  if  he  will  register  in  his  regular  voca- 
tion as  a  mechanic,  a  student,  a  farmer,  or  whatever  it  may  be, 
and  if,  during  that  interim,  between  the  time  of  his  call  and  his  en- 
trance into  the  home,  he  is  selected  in  the  draft,  he  is  to  respond. 
If,  however,  he  enters  the  missionary  home  before  he  is  drafted  his 
status  changes.  He  is  then  recognized  as  being  an  ordained  minister 
and  the  government  will  excuse  him.  He  will  be  deferred  by  the 
Selective  board  for  military  service  for  the  duration  of  the  term  he 
is  to  serve  as  an  ordained  minister.  Following  his  release,  I  believe 
it  is  within  five  days  after  he  is  home,  he  is  to  report  to  his  local  draft 
board. 

For  the  present  bishops  and  presidents  of  stakes  will  govern 
themselves  accordingly. 

Requirements  for  Young  Women  Missionaries 

The  age  of  young  women  is  set  at  twenty-three.  Young  women 
under  twenty-three  years  of  age,  preferably  twenty-one,  who  are 
engaged  to  young  men  who  are  in  the  field,  may  be  considered  as 
prospective  missionaries,  provided  they  can  go  and  serve  a  regular 
term  mission  and  be  home  in  time  to  meet  their  sweethearts.  Some 
requests  are  made  that  they  may  go  out  and  spend  a  few  months, 
some  a  year.  Now,  it  is  evident,  if  you  give  that  a  thought,  this 
cannot  be  done  for  the  good  of  the  service.  Presidents  of  missions 
will  make  certain  appointments,  assignments.  Those  assignments 
will  be  broken  up  and  it  is  not  advantageous  to  send  young  mis- 
sionaries out  for  less  than  the  regular  term  missions. 

Brethren,  "Go  into  all  the  world  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every 
creature."    We  are  heeding  that  call. 

God  bless  the  young  men  and  the  young  women  who  are  re- 
sponding, and  God  bless  the  parents,  the  fathers  and  mothers,  who 
in  pride  are  sacrificing  where  necessary  to  pay  the  expenses  of  these 
choice  young  men  and  women. 

That  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  may  continue  to  be  poured  out 
upon  the  priesthood  of  this  Church,  that  we  may  in  every  way  be 
honorable  representatives  of  the  Master,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus  then  sang  "The  Holy 
City,"  after  which  the  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
the  congregation  sang  the  hymn:  "I  Need  Thee  Every  Hour." 


178 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  is  an  awe-inspiring  view,  this  great  body  of  priesthood 
again.  As  we  sing  in  unison  I  can  picture  in  my  mind  the  scene 
before  Jericho,  when  the  priesthood  of  Aaron  marched  around  the 
walls  and  blew  the  trumpets  and  the  walls  fell.  God  was  with 
Israel  and  his  priesthood. 

Crusade  of  Peter  the  Hermit 

That  incident  reminds  me  that  during  the  great  crusade  into 
the  Holy  Land,  known  as  the  Crusade  of  Peter  the  Hermit,  when 
the  crusaders  finally  reached  the  walls  of  Jerusalem,  they  tried  to 
repeat  the  miracle  of  Jericho  but  failed.  The  crusaders  had  gone 
to  the  Holy  Land  with  a  plenary  indulgence  from  the  Pope  of  Rome, 
which  promised  every  man  who  went  into  this  crusade  forgiveness, 
as  it  was  popularly  understood,  for  all  the  crimes  he  ever  had  commit- 
ted and  all  that  he  ever  might  commit.  Their  criminal  excesses 
astounded  even  the  infidels. 

The  next  day  or  two  after  the  trial  for  the  miracle,  the  walls 
of  Jerusalem  were  stormed  and  the  crusaders  entered.  The  accounts 
say  that  as  they  went  up  those  narrow  streets  toward  Mount  Zion, 
the  blood  running  down  from  the  men,  women,  and  children  who 
had  been  masacred,  was  up  to  the  horses  knees.  As  the  crusaders 
pushed  into  the  city  they  took  children  by  the  heels  and  dashed 
out  their  brains  against  the  walls.  Some  who  were  particularly 
dexterous,  took  children  by  the  heels  and  tried  to  throw  them  over 
the  walls. 

Godfrey,  the  head  of  the  crusaders,  went  into  the  temple  and 
got  down  on  his  knees  and  thanked  God  for  this  day  of  achievement, 
and  the  representative  of  the  Pope,  the  papal  legate,  was  heard  in 
the  streets  thanking  God  for  what  had  happened.  But  God  refused 
to  give  the  priesthoodless  Crusaders  the  approval  he  gave  to  Joshua 
and  his  priesthood  in  the  ancient  day  at  Jericho. 

Priesthood  an  Everlasting  Endowment 

This  body  of  priesthood  here  to-night  holds  the  priesthood  of 
the  Son  of  God;  it  is  a  holy  priesthood. 

We  have  had  much  said  about  the  priesthood  today  and  I  en- 
dorse all  of  it.  Brother  Benson  talked  about  it  at  length  this  after- 
noon. Bishop  Richards  referred  to  it  tonight;  President  McKay 
also  spoke  of  it.  And  I  hope  they  will  excuse  me  if  I  carry  the 
matter  just  a  little  farther. 

The  priesthood  is  an  everlasting  endowment.  Some,  at  least, 
who  have  come  to  the  earth  had  it  before  they  came  here.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  said:  "Every  man  who  has  a  calling  to  minister 
to  the  inhabitants  of  the  world  was  ordained  to  that  very  purpose 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  179 


in  the  Grand  Council  of  Heaven  before  the  world  was.  I  suppose," 
says  he,  "I  was  ordained  to  this  very  office  in  that  Grand  Council." 
The  priesthood  of  God  is  from  everlasting  to  everlasting,  and  the 
thought  that  I  would  like  to  leave  with  you  will  be  suggested  by 
a  number  of  semi-questions  I  shall  ask. 

Pertinent  Questions 

Do  you  know  of  any  way  in  which  you  can  lay  your  priesthood 
aside?  Do  you  suppose  that  after  you  get  through  with  this  con- 
ference you  can  go  home  and  lay  it  off  like  a  suit  and  go  forward 
with  your  avocations  without  the  priesthood?  Do  you  suppose 
that  you  can  lay  your  priesthood  aside  if  you  should  wish  to  do  a 
dishonest  thing,  and  then  pick  it  up  again  afterwards  and  put  it 
on  and  go  on  as  if  nothing  had  happened?  Can  you  lay  your 
priesthood  aside  while  you  go  into  a  saloon  and  take  a  drink,  or 
when  you  take  a  smoke?  Can  you  lay  your  priesthood  aside  if 
you  begin  an  immoral  act?  Can  you  lay  your  priesthood  aside  if 
you  undertake  any  crime  or  any  transgression? 

And  to  the  young  men  who  are  here  I  would  like  particularly 
to  ask  them,  do  you  think  you  can  lay  your  priesthood  aside  if  you 
shall  undertake  to  make  immoral  advances  to  some  girl  that  you 
had  taken  out,  or  could  you  lay  it  aside  while  you  committed,  com- 
pleted the  immoral  act?  The  priesthood  you  hold  is  with  you  every 
second  of  your  lives  until  it  is  taken  from  you. 

But  how  about  honoring  it  and  how  about  so  living  that  when 
you  have  occasion  to  use  its  powers  they  are  at  your  command. 

If  a  man  had  given  you  a  commission  to  do  something  which 
required  that  you  walk  down  the  straight  and  narrow  path,  do  you 
think  you  would  be  honoring  that  commission  if  you  were  to  go 
off  on  detours,  do  things  that  you  ought  not  to  do  outside  of  and 
contrary  to  your  commission? 

Obligation  to  Honor  Priesthood 

Those  of  us  who  have  been  in  the  temple  of  course  know  of 
the  obligations  we  take  there.  But  there  are  obligations  which  are 
taken  by  every  man  who  bears  the  priesthood,  from  the  office  of 
deacon  up.  Do  not  dishonor  your  priesthood,  brethren,  and  do  not 
any  of  you  let  your  life  so  shape  itself  that  you  will  lose  the  powers 
Which  the  priesthood  gives. 

I  return  again  to  the  theme  that  I  have  always  mentioned  in 
these  priesthood  meetings  since  I  came  into  the  Council,  to  the 
question  of  unity.  Brethren,  if  we  could  act  as  united  and  in 
unison  as  we  can  sing  and  have  sung  in  unison,  there  is  no  power 
that  could  withstand  anything  that  we  sought  to  do  in  righteous- 
ness. 

May  God  give  us  the  strength  and  the  power  and  the  will  and 
the  desire  to  honor  our  priesthood,  to  remember  that  we  cannot 


180 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


lay  it  aside  as  a  cloak;  it  is  always  with  us  to  be  dishonored  and 
disgraced  if  we  shall  so  act.  May  he  give  to  us  the  will  and  the  deter- 
mination always  so  to  honor  our  priesthood,  that  we  may  be  indeed 
the  agents  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  to  perform  his  will, — to  the  end 
that  ultimately  righteousness  may  rule  the  earth,  as  it  will  ultimately 
through  the  priesthood,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  wonder  sometimes  if  as  fathers  we  take  pains  to  explain  to 
our  boys  the  seriousness  of  the  obligation  assumed  when  a  boy  be- 
comes a  deacon.  I  wonder  if  when  the  boy  is  ordained  a  deacon 
the  father  lets  him  feel  that  he  has  something  now  that  is  eternally 
important. 

Contrasting  Ward  Situations 

I  remember  hearing  upon  one  occasion  of  two  wards,  side  by 
side,  with  about  an  equal  population.  One  of  the  bishops  made  it 
a  point  to  visit  the  homes  of  the  members  of  his  flock  when  a  child 
was  born,  and  when  the  time  came  for  it  to  be  blessed  in  the  fast 
meeting  he  was  on  hand  to  encourage  the  parents  that  their  child 
might  receive  a  blessing.  As  the  children  grew  a  little  older  he 
taught  both  the  girls  and  the  boys  that  there  would  be  a  blessing 
come  to  them  if  they  would  go  to  Primary  and  to  Sunday  School. 

He  made  them  want  to  be  baptized  when  they  were  eight  years 
of  age,  both  the  boys  and  the  girls.  When  the  boys  were  nearly 
old  enough  to  be  ordained  deacons  he  had  talked  with  them  and 
made  them  feel  that  they  could  be  ordained  deacons.  He  was 
another  father.  He  followed  all  those  families  through  life  and 
it  was  said  of  the  ward  that  every  boy  and  every  girl  were  married 
in  the  temple  and  many  of  them  went  on  missions. 

The  ward  that  adjoined  this  one  had  another  kind  of  bishop. 
He  was  busy.  He  did  not  have  time  to  follow  up.  He  let  his  coun- 
selors do  that.  It  was  proper  that  his  counselors  should  do  part  of 
it  but  the  difference  was  noted  by  the  stake  presidency,  that  in  the 
one  ward  all  of  the  young  people,  almost  without  exception,  were 
faithful,  took  advantage  of  their  opportunities,  were  prepared  and 
taught  beforehand  the  importance  of  what  they  were  to  receive, 
while  in  the  other  ward  if  the  parents  did  not  teach  the  children 
they  were  not  taught  except  in  a  mediocre  way,  and  the  result  was 
that  the  majority  of  those  young  people  grew  up,  not  particularly 
interested  in  the  church. 

Responsibilities  of  a  Bishop 

Now,  I  mention  this  because  a  father  of  a  ward,  a  bishop,  has 
a  great  responsibility.    I  do  not  mean  that  the  father  of  the  child 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD 


181 


and  the  mother  of  the  child  do  not  have  a  responsibility.  It  is  their 
duty  and  their  responsibility,  but  what  a  wonderful  addition  to  the 
life  of  these  young  people  when  they  feel  that  the  bishop  recognizes 
them  on  the  street,  goes  out  of  his  way  to  encourage  them  to  do  what 
they  ought  to  do.  There  is  not  anything  that  the  children  will  not 
do  for  a  bishop  of  that  kind. 

I  remember,  as  if  it  were  yesterday,  when  John  Tingey  placed 
his  hands  on  my  head  and  ordained  me  a  deacon.  I  had  the  matter 
so  presented  to  me  and  the  importance  of  it,  that  I  felt  it  was  a  great 
honor.  The  result  was,  it  was  a  blessing  to  me,  and  then  after  awhile 
other  ordinations  came  to  me.  But  in  each  case  the  foundation  was 
laid  in  my  mind  that  here  was  an  opportunity  for  another  blessing, 
and  I  want  to  suggest  to  you  fathers  who  are  here  tonight,  there  is 
no  time  that  you  can  spend,  no  way  in  which  you  can  utilize  your 
time  that  will  be  of  greater  advantage  than  training  your  boys  and 
your  girls  to  be  worthy  of  the  blessings  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

Failure  of  Parents 

Only  a  few  weeks  ago  a  good  woman  came  into  my  office,  a 
daughter  of  one  of  the  most  prominent  men  that  ever  has  been  in 
the  church.  She  said:  "I  cannot  understand  why  my  children  do 
not  have  any  interest  in  the  church."  She  continued,  "I  have  talked 
to  them  and  explained  to  them  what  they  ought  to  do." 

I  went  back  in  my  mind,  and  I  was  not  unkind  enough  to  say 
to  her,  "What  did  you  do  with  them  when  they  were  younger?" 
I  did  not  read  to  her  that  scripture,  Section  68  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  which  says: 

"Inasmuch  as  parents  have  children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes,  which  are  organized,  that  teach  them  not  to  understand  the 
doctrine  of  repentance,  faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of  the  living  God, 
and  of  baptism  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  the 
hands,  when  eight  years  old,  the  sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the 
parents." 

I  do  not  know  all  the  facts  in  regard  to  that  family  but  I  do 
know  that  they  spent  considerable  of  their  time  unmindful  of  their 
growing  children,  and  I  am  wondering  if  by  now,  (the  father  is 
gone  and  the  mother  is  still  living),  I  am  wondering  now  if  she 
looked  back  and  took  into  account  what  the  father  and  mother  did  if 
it  would  not  explain  why  these  children  now  do  not  have  much  faith. 

And  so,  brethren,  as  fathers,  as  brothers,  as  associates,  as 
neighbors,  why  not  lay  up  treasures  in  heaven  by  going  out  of  our 
way  and  encouraging  these  young  people  to  do  what  the  Lord 
would  have  them  do,  so  that  as  they  grow  up  it  will  be  natural  for 
them  to  do  the  things  that  our  Heavenly  Father  would  like  them 
to  do. 


182 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


History  of  Jerusalem 

Reference  has  been  made  tonight  to  Jerusalem.  I  think  the 
story  of  Jerusalem  is  one  of  the  most  pathetic  of  all  the  stories  we 
hear.  A  city  that  had  every  advantage;  a  city  that  had  within  its 
walls  those  that  the  Lord  himself  claimed.  They  were  his  children 
and  he  still  claims  them.  But  a  city  that  was  so  selfish,  and  the  leader- 
ship of  which  was  so  careless,  that  the  population  of  the  city  grew 
up  in  wickedness,  not  one  group,  but  generation  after  generation, 
and  the  city  was  destroyed  repeatedly  although  the  Lord  did  every- 
thing he  could  by  means  of  his  prophets  to  train  them  that  they  could 
have  been  preserved. 

There  was  one  time  when  they  were  preserved.  It  showed 
how  the  power  of  the  Lord  could  be  made  manifest.  The  city  was 
surrounded  and  the  plans  were  being  made,  and  the  Army  outside 
made  its  threat,  but  a  prophet  went  to  the  Lord  and  said,  "These  peo- 
ple need  your  help.  They  are  repentant  and  will  you  not  help  them. 
They  are  helpless.  They  are  surrounded  by  their  enemy,"  and  the 
next  morning  when  daylight  came  a  very  large  portion  of  the  army 
outside  was  dead.  The  power  of  the  Lord  had  been  made  manifest 
in  that  case  and  the  city  was  preserved. 

It  is  marvelous  what  the  Lord  has  done  in  that  regard,  but  I  am 
thinking  of  Jerusalem  today.  After  all  these  years  and  experience 
after  experience,  it  is  a  battleground,  and  one  of  the  most  undesirable 
places  to  be  living  that  you  can  think  of  in  all  the  world.  But  there 
will  come  a  change.  Repentance  will  come  and  when  that  repentance 
comes  and  is  accepted  by  the  Lord,  Jerusalem  will  be  redeemed. 

It  was  redeemed  once,  you  will  remember,  after  being  in  bond- 
age seventy  years.  The  Lord  had  told  the  prophet  Jeremiah  that 
Jerusalem  would  be  destroyed  and  its  people  would  be  in  bondage 
seventy  years. 

Freedom  from  Babylonian  Captivity 

One  hundred  years  before  Cyrus,  the  general  who  captured 
Babylon,  was  born,  the  Lord  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Isaiah  that 
Cyrus  should  be  his  servant  and  say  unto  Jerusalem  that  it  should 
be  rebuilt.  Babylon  at  that  time  was  the  greatest  city  in  all  the 
world,  and  was  thought  to  be  impregnable.  Cyrus  was  not  a  Jew.  Cy- 
rus did  not  understand  the  old  Testament,  nor  did  he  know  of  the  part 

he  was  to  play  in  the  freeing  of  the  captive  Jews  and  rebuilding 
Jerusalem. 

While  Cyrus  was  besieging  the  city  of  Babylon  the  great 
king,  Belshazzar  of  Babylon  and  his  associates  were  using  the  sacred 
vessels  that  had  been  taken  from  the  house  of  the  Lord  in  Jerusalem 
to  drink  from.  It  was  a  great  debauch,  and  suddenly  in  the  midst 
of  it  was  seen  a  hand  writing  on  the  wall  these  words,  "Me-ne,  Me- 
ne,  Tekel,  U-phar-sin,"  and  they  could  not  read  it. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  183 


The  Queen  said  to  the  King,  "There  is  a  Hebrew  prophet 
among  us.   He  can  tell  you  what  it  means." 

And  so  they  went  out  and  brought  Daniel  in  and  when  Daniel 
saw  the  handwriting  on  the  wall  he  could  read  it.  It  was  not  difficult 
for  him.  He  was  the  servant  of  the  Lord.  He  had  the  priesthood 
and  he  had  honored  it  in  a  most  marvelous  way  all  down  through 
his  life. 

The  king  and  others  felt  perfectly  secure,  feeling  that  with  food 
and  provisions,  and  a  river  of  water  running  through  the  city,  not 
anything  could  come  in  to  disturb  them,  and  yet  on  that  wall  were 
written  the  words  which,  when  interpreted,  read,  "You  have  been 
weighed  in  the  balance  and  found  wanting,  and  your  kingdom  will 
be  divided  among  the  Medes  and  the  Persians."  At  that  very  hour 
"my  servant  Cyrus"  had  diverted  the  river  that  went  through  the 
city  from  its  channel  and  his  army  entered  under  the  wall,  which 
wall  was  so  high  that  it  could  not  be  scaled  or  destroyed  with  any 
means  or  weapons  that  they  had,  and  so  wide  that  several  chariots 
could  ride  abreast  on  the  top. 

When  that  gentile,  if  we  may  use  that  term,  that  alien  to  those 
that  had  had  the  priesthood  and  the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  the  des- 
cendants of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob,  realized  that  the  Lord  had 
given  him  Babylon,  he  issued  a  proclamation  freeing  the  Jewish  cap- 
tives and  returning  them  to  rebuild  their  city  of  Jerusalem.  He 
not  only  took  his  own  army  and  his  own  people  but  he  gave  them 
means  to  use  in  payment  to  the  workers. 

Present  Condition  of  Jews 

I  mention  this  because  of  the  predicament  Jerusalem  is  in  to- 
night. Think  of  the  condition  the  Jews  find  themselves  in,  wherever 
they  are  in  all  the  world.  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  some  of  the  best 
people  that  have  ever  lived  were  the  Hebrew  race  and  they  were 
examples  in  many  instances  but  they,  in  some  cases,  lost  their  faith 
and  turned  away.  I  want  to  say  that  some  of  the  best  men  and 
women  that  we  have  had  in  Salt  Lake  City  were  Jews.  I  hope  that 
the  Latter-day  Saints  will  not  forget,  will  not  fall  into  the  habit 
that  people  have  who  hate  the  Jews  because  of  their  prosperity,  and 
sometimes  hate  them  for  other  reasons;  that  they  will  not  fall  into 
the  habit  of  condemning  a  nation,  condemning  all  those  people, 
without  remembering  a  circumstance  that  happened  in  the  British 
Parliament. 

Disraeli's  Answer 

There  was  an  argument  going  on  between  a  great  Hebrew, 
Benjamin  Disraeli,  who  was  the  Prime  Minister  of  England,  and  a 
man  who  was  a  noted  arguer  in  the  House  of  Lords,  and  when  he 
could  no  longer  answer  the  Jew,  then  he  began  to  taunt  him  with  be- 
ing a  Jew.   He  said:  "Yes,  you  are  only  a  Jew  anyhow." 

And  then  Disraeli  arose  and  said:  "This  man  has  taunted  me 


184 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


with  being  a  Jew.  I  am  a  Jew  and  I  am  proud  of  it.  And  when  the 
forebears  of  this  man  were  fighting  like  wild  beasts  for  their  mates, 
my  people  were  laying  the  foundation  for  the  literature  of  the 
world."  That  was  his  answer. 

And  then  one  more,  and  I  hope  we  will  all  remember  it.  "When 
this  man  and  those  he  loves  bow  in  prayer,  everything  they  ask 
for,  they  ask  for  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  a  Jew." 

I  am  stressing  that  tonight,  although  I  did  not  expect  to  when 
I  got  on  my  feet  because  of  the  hatred  that  sometimes  grows  in 
men's  hearts  and  we  fail  to  see  the  virtues  of  others.  Brethren,  in 
the  midst  of  these  political  campaigns  such  as  we  are  having  now, 
for  goodness'  sake  do  not  stoop  to  criticising  and  finding  fault  un- 
fairly and  unjustly  with  those  who  do  not  believe  the  same  as  you 
do  in  politics.  Let  us  be  real  Latter-day  Saints, — not  make  be- 
lieves— and  see  the  virtues  of  the  others.  There  is  virtue  in  both 
camps. 

Think  of  Jerusalem,  tonight.  Think  of  the  predicament  of  that 
great  people  who  have  maintained  their  integrity  as  a  nation,  as 
individuals,  as  a  race,  as  few  others  in  the  world  have  done.  It  has 
been  marvelous  to  me,  but  see  how  pitiable  their  situation  is  now, 
and  if  all  the  people  of  the  world  were  righteous  and  they  were 
in  transgression,  there  would  be  hope  for  them  because  our  Heavenly 
Father  has  insisted,  in  his  advice  and  counsel  to  the  world,  that 
"Jerusalem  shall  be  redeemed." 

Blessings  Predicated  on  Righteousness 

We  do  not  have  to  go  so  far  away.  What  about  America?  I  was 
in  a  meeting,  not  very  long  ago,  where  a  group  of  Boy  Scouts  stood 
and  sang,  "God  Bless  America,"  and  they  sang  it  beautifully,  and  all 
the  time  they  were  singing  I  asked  myself  the  question,  "How  can 
he  bless  America  until  America  repents?"  Every  great  blessing  that 
we  desire  is  promised  us  by  our  Heavenly  Father  on  condition  that 
we  honor  him  and  keep  his  commandments.  Praying  is  not  sufficient. 
Not  only  must  we  pray  but  we  must  live  to  be  worthy  of  the  bless- 
ing. 

In  the  midst  of  the  upheavals  of  the  world — I  almost  hesitate 
to  open  the  newspaper  and  see  the  headlines  of  all  the  articles  be- 
cause so  many  of  them  are  in  large  type  and  so  often  they  indicate 
that  the  danger  of  another  war  confronts  us. 

Brethren,  why  did  the  Lord  gather  us  out  from  the  nations  of 
the  earth.  Why  did  he  not  leave  us  in  all  the  other  lands.  Why  did 
he  call  our  forebears  to  leave  the  comforts  of  home  and  the  opportuni- 
ties and  blessings  of  civilization,  such  as  it  was,  to  come  way  out 
here  into  the  tops  of  these  everlasting  hills,  to  settle  these  sterile 
desert  plains,  in  many  cases.  Why?  He  knew  what  we  needed. 
He  knew  that  his  people  would  have  to  keep  his  commandments 
if  they  were  to  endure,  and  like  the  time  when  the  crickets  came  and 
were  about  to  devour  the  crops,  and  starvation  stared  our  people 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD 


185 


in  the  face,  there  were  those  among  them  who  knew  there  was  a 
way  out.  They  did  not  know  what  it  was,  but  then  they  began  to 
pray.  They  had  done  everything  else  to  destroy  the  pests,  but 
when  they  began  to  pray  there  came  into  the  western  sky  big  flocks 
of  seagulls,  and  they  came  in  and  began  to  devour  the  crickets. 

Do  you  suppose  that  would  have  happened  if  those  people  had 
been  wicked,  if  they  had  been  immoral,  if  they  had  been  drunken, 
if  they  had  been  violators  of  the  commandments  of  God?  I  cannot 
believe  it  would  have  occurred,  but  I  believe  that  among  those  peo- 
ple were  some  of  the  finest  men  and  women  that  have  ever  lived 
upon  the  earth,  and  for  that  reason  the  Lord  preserved  their  crops. 

Faith  Rewarded  in  Bear  River 

Then  there  was  a  circumstance  up  here  on  the  Bear  River.  For 
ten  years  the  frost  had  taken  their  crops  every  year.  People  had 
to  go  out  of  the  valley  for  their  breadstuffs.  They  could  raise  hay 
and  cattle  but  they  could  not  mature  their  food  crops.  And  the 
President  of  the  Church  and  his  brethren  went  up  there  to  hold 
conference.  And  when  they  were  coming,  O  how  the  people  prayed 
that  the  President  of  the  Church,  the  prophet  of  the  Lord,  would 
rebuke  the  curse  that  seemed  to  be  upon  that  land,  that  they  might 
raise  their  harvest. 

There  may  be  quite  a  number  of  people  from  that  stake  here  to- 
night because  there  are  a  lot  of  fine  people  who  live  there  now. 

And  their  conference  was  held — two  days  of  conference.  And 
the  brethren  had  all  talked.  Not  a  word  was  said  about  their 
distress;  not  anything  was  said  to  them  to  encourage  them  that 
conditions  would  be  better.  The  benediction  was  pronounced  and 
the  people  were  going  out,  and  all  at  once  the  President  stood  up 
and  he  said:  "Call  the  people  back.  I  have  something  to  say  to 
them." 

They  came  back  and  took  their  seats,  and  he  said:  "Now,  you 
people  have  been  faithful.  You  have  not  run  away  from  here.  You 
stayed.  You  have  tilled  the  ground.  You  have  done  your  best 
and  every  year  you  have  lost  your  harvest  of  grain.  The  Lord 
knows  what  you  need,  and  I  can  say  to  you  that  from  this  time  forth 
you  shall  raise  your  crop." 

Imagine  after  ten  years,  but  they  have  raised  a  crop  in  that 
valley  ever  since. 

These  things  are  not  accidents,  my  brethren.  The  authority 
of  the  priesthood,  properly  exercised,  brings  to  our  minds  the  fact 
that  we  are  not  very  far  from  the  Lord  and  he  is  all-powerful  and 
he  is  all-merciful.  If  we  repent  of  our  foolishness  and  turn  to  him, 
he  will  hear  and  answer  our  prayers. 

Brethren,  bishops,  I  was  sorry  that  I  could  not  be  with  you  last 
night.  Bishop  Richards,  I  think  I  owe  an  apology  right  from  the 
stand  here.  I  went  home  last  night  after  the  meeting  and  went  to 
bed  just  as  soon  as  I  could  get  there  after  the  afternoon  meeting, 


186 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


because  I  wanted  to  come  down  to  your  meeting.  But  when  the 
time  came  to  dress  and  come  down,  I  got  up  and  I  was  so  weak 
I  did  not  dare  to  come.  I  did  not  dress.  I  went  back  to  bed,  and  I 
missed  your  fine  meeting.  But  I  wanted  to  be  there  and  I  am  sure 
you  had  a  happy  time. 

Office  of  A  Bishop 

I  want  to  say  this  to  the  bishops.  There  is  no  position  in  the 
Church  that  will  bring  a  greater  blessing  to  any  man  than  the  office 
of  a  bishop,  if  he  will  honor  that  office  and  be  a.  real  father  to  the 
flock  over  whom  he  is  called  to  preside.  Do  not  forget  that.  He 
can  go  into  the  home,  not  to  scold  and  find  fault  and  criticize,  but 
he  can  go  like  a  loving  grandfather,  if  I  may  use  that  term,  and  the 
family  will  pay  attention,  if  he  is  wise,  and  he  can  gather  them 
around  him.  And  if  he  can  only  get  his  ward  teachers  to  help  him, 
there  could  be  a  great  change  in  some  of  the  wards  of  this  church. 

I  am  pleading  with  you,  my  brethren.  Do  not  be  satisfied  with 
just  going  to  the  door  and  saying:  "We  want  to  know  if  everything 
is  all  right,"  and  go-  your  way.  That  is  not  the  duty.  That  is  not 
the  way  a  ward  teacher  should  operate,  but  every  bishop  should 
have  under  his  direction  men,  young  men,  middle-aged  men  and 
old  men,  who  will  go  into  the  homes,  not  apologizing  for  breaking 
into  the  house,  but  going  as  ward  teachers. 

Ward  Teaching 

Rodney  Badger  was  a  teacher  in  my  father's  home  for  years, 
and  a  great  man.  Whenever  he  came  the  family  met  and  he  sat  and 
asked  us  questions  and  told  us  the  things  that  he  thought  we  ought 
to  understand.  And  I  want  to  tell  you  that  when  he  came  into  our 
home  he  brought  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  with  him.  And  when  he  went 
out  we  felt  we  had  had  a  visit  from  a  servant  of  the  Lord. 

Let  us  try  and  see  if  we  cannot  improve  our  ward  teaching, 
brethren.  Surely,  in  some  cases,  it  is  pitiable,  because  the  Lord 
has  given  us  all  the  power  and  authority  and  the  ability  to  go  into 
the  homes  and  draw  his  sons  and  daughters  nearer  to  him.  But  we 
often  feel  that  we  are  so  busy  with  other  things  we  cannot  do  it. 

Blessings  Promised  Bishops 

I  am  not  complaining.  I  know  what  a  difficult  thing  it  is  to  be 
a  bishop.  I  have  been  in  the  homes  of  many  bishops  and  I  have  or- 
dained a  good  many,  and  I  have  followed  them  and  seen  what  their 
experiences  were;  they  have  a  very  great  responsibility,  and  it  takes 
a  lot  of  their  time.  But  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  there  is  no  bishop, 
nor  has  there  been  a  bishop  in  the  Church,  who  has  given  the  time 
that  the  Lord  expected  him  to  give  in  looking  after  the  flock  and 
teaching  his  people  and  preparing  them  to  do  the  work,  that  has 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD 


187 


not  received  one  hundred  percent  of  the  blessings  that  he  labored 
for,  and  they  will  extend  to  him  throughout  the  ages  of  eternity. 

He  may  not  have  had  wealth,  may  not  have  had  distinction.  He 
may  not  have  had  the  honor  of  presiding  over  clubs  and  things  of 
that  kind,  but  if  he  has  done  his  duty  as  a  bishop,  he  has  been  hand 
in  hand  with  the  Father  of  us  all,  and  everything  that  he  has  done 
to  bless  his  kind  is  laid  up  as  a  treasure  in  heaven  and  nobody  can 
take  the  blessing  from  him. 

Let  us  see  if  we  cannot  improve  that,  brethren.  As  well  as 
some  of  us  have  done,  let  us  see  if  we  cannot  do  better. 

False  Teachers 

There  is  one  little  item  here  that  has  been  called  to  our  attention. 
In  some  of  our  wards,  in  order  to  draw  the  congregations  and  bring 
more  people  out,  our  bishops,  and  in  some  cases,  our  auxiliary 
organization  leaders,  go  out  and  find  somebody  to  come  and  deliver 
a  lecture  in  the  Sunday  night  meeting.  Sometimes  men  are  invited 
they  do  not  know  anything  about  and  sometimes  those  men  say 
things  that  are  not  what  should  be  said  in  the  meeting. 

There  are  two  Indians  that  are  working  now  among  our  peo- 
ple and  they  are  being  invited  from  ward  to  ward  and  they  are  going 
in  and  telling  stories,  and  they  dress  up  with  their  feathers  and 
costumes  that  are  attractive  to  young  people,  and  we  are  informed 
that  they  teach  things  that  are  foreign  to  what  we  believe  and  what 
the  Lord  wants  us  to  have  our  people  believe. 

Bishops,  and  leaders  of  organizations,  protect  your  people 
from  those  who  would  teach  them  things  that  would  be  harmful 
to  them.  There  are  some  of  the  finest  people  in  the  world  that  are 
Indians.  Those  men  that  I  am  talking  about  now  may  have  many 
good  traits  of  character,  but  right  now  they  are  going  among  our 
people  and  saying  and  doing  things  that  will  do  harm  and  will  all 
have  to  be  set  aside,  because  they  are  not  telling  that  which  is  true. 
So,  we  would  like  you  tonight  to  pass  that  on  in  your  wards,  and 
stakes,  you  stake  presidents  and  the  bishops  that  are  here,  and 
in  whatever  you  do,  protect  your  people  in  the  ward  from  those  that 
you  do  not  know  anything  about  and  who  will  seek  an  opportunity 
to  come  in  and  talk  to  the  people  when  they  should  not  be  permitted 
to  do  so,  because  they  are  not  teaching  that  which  would  be  helpful 
to  the  people. 

Honor  the  Sabbath 

Another  thing,  brethren,  our  bishops  and  our  stake  presidents 
can  have  a  tremendous  influence  in  bringing  the  people  of  their 
wards  and  stakes  to  feel  that  they  must  honor  the  Sabbath  day. 
Honoring  the  Sabbath  day  and  keeping  it  holy  is  a  commandment 
of  our  Heavenly  Father.  Six  days  he  has  given  us  to  do  about  as 
we  please,  as  long  as  we  do  not  do  wrong,  but  on  the  seventh,  he 
said,  "The  seventh  is  the  Sabbath  of  the  Lord  Thy  God."    He  has 


188 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


advised  us  to  do  no  work,  neither  our  animals,  nor  the  stranger  with- 
in our  gates,  and  he  has  promised  us  blessings  if  we  will  do  what 
we  ought  to  do. 

Brethren,  it  is  not  an  insignificant  thing  to  violate  the  Sabbath 
day.  I  want  to  say  that  you  lose  every  time  you  violate  the  Sabbath 
day,  you  lose  more  than  you  can  gain,  no  matter  what  you  may  think 
you  are  going  to  gain,  but  your  boys  and  girls  sometimes  do  not 
understand  that.  Teach  it  to  them.  Teach  them  that  their  homes 
may  be  the  abiding  place  of  prayer. 

I  remember  when  I  was  a  child,  living  right  across  the  street 
from  here  and  the  boys  would  come  over  to  our  place  on  Sunday 
after  Sunday  School,  and  I  was  like  the  boys,  I  thought  it  would 
be  lots  of  fun  to  play  ball  and  to  play  other  games.  But  I  had  a 
Wonderful  mother.  She  did  not  say,  "You  cannot  do  it,"  but  she 
did  say:  "Son,  you  will  be  happier  if  you  do  not  do  that.  Let  the 
boys  go  home  and  read  a  good  book," 

Home  Training 

I  want  to  tell  you  I  am  grateful  for  that  kind  of  training  in  the 
home,  but  there  are  places  where  the  children  are  turned  loose  and 
they  are  not  guarded  and  they  are  not  protected  and  they  are  not 
trained,  and  the  result  is,  not  only  do  they  lose  the  blessing  that 
would  be  eternally  advantageous  to  them,  but  they  cross  to  the  devil's 
side  of  the  line,  and  the  first  thing  you  know  they  do  things  that 
they  should  not  do. 

I  want  to  say  that  just  as  soon  as  we  go  into  the  devil's  territory 
we  are  in  his  power,  and  our  safety  is  on  the  Lord's  side  of  the  line, 
and  the  Lord's  side  of  the  line  is  on  the  side  of  the  Ten  Command- 
ments and  the  other  commandments  that  the  Lord  has  given,  and  we 
can  easily  tell  what  they  are. 

Protection  of  Young  Women 

Quite  a  number  of  our  young  people  are  leaving  home  in  the 
country  settlements  and  coming  here  to  Salt  Lake  City.  Our  young 
girls  are  coming,  and  when  they  come  if  they  are  not  in  homes  that 
will  protect  them,  not  under  the  supervision  of  good  women,  they 
are  in  great  danger.  If  I  were  living  in  some  of  the  outlying  settle- 
ments, knowing  what  I  know,  if  I  had  a  precious  daughter  I  never 
would  let  her  come  to  Salt  Lake  City  without  a  guardian,  no  matter 
how  good  she  was.  If  I  let  her  come  at  all  I  would  be  sure  that  she 
was  properly  safeguarded  and  chaperoned  and  helped. 

Brethren,  pass  that  word  around.  It  is  such  an  attractive  thing 
for  these  girls  to  come  where  the  bright  lights  are,  and  the  papers 
are  always  telling  what  is  going  on  here,  but  their  eternal  happiness 
may  be  destroyed  by  falling  into  the  hands  of  some  wicked,  careless 
boy  or  man.  And  when  they  are  ruined  it  is  too  late  then  to  begin 
to  say,  "I  wish  we  had  not  done  it."  Safeguard  them,  please,  as  far 
as  you  can,  and  when  they  come  to  the  city  and  you  know  they  are 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD 


189 


coming,  you  bishops  send  word  here.  You  can  send  word  or  find 
out  what  ward  they  go  into  and  you  can  write  the  bishops  direct. 
If  there  is  no  other  way,  write  the  Young  Women's  Mutual  Improve' 
ment  Association  and  give  the  addresses  of  these  girls,  and  they  will 
help  to  take  care  of  them.  They  will  do  a  wonderful  job  for  you 
and  help  to  save  those  that  are  more  precious  than  gold. 

Watchcare  Needed 

A  great  effort  is  being  made  right  now  to  break  into  the  ranks 
of  this  people.  Others  who  are  not  members  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  are  building  churches,  building 
.houses  of  amusement  among  us,  and  those  who  are  skillful  in  at- 
tracting young  people  are  gathering  them  in,  and  some  of  our  young 
people  have  asked  to  have  their  names  taken  from  the  records  of 
the  church.  They  come  out  of  good  homes,  but  in  some  cases  have 
not  been  taught  properly  and  are  easily  misled  by  strangers. 

Brethren,  watch  your  people.  You  may  have  cattle  and  sheep 
on  a  thousand  hills  and  all  the  hay  and  grain  and  potatoes  and  other 
things,  you  may  own  stocks  and  bonds  and  houses  and  banks  and 
everything,  but  if  you,  by  reason  of  your  own  carelessness  and  in- 
difference, lose  one  of  those  young  sons  or  daughters  that  God  has 
given  to  you,  you  will  be  repenting  of  it  a  long  time,  and  your  repent- 
ance may  not  accomplish  what  you  desire. 

There  is  a  lot  I  might  say  but  there  is  not  time.  I  have  talked 
so  long  now. 

It  is  lovely  to  be  here  with  you.  I  am  happy  to  be  with  a 
group  of  men  like  this,  so  many  young  men  and  boys  here.  Remem- 
ber boys,  every  one  of  you,  is  a  child  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  Every 
one  of  you  is  living  eternal  life.  Each  of  you  boys  and  men,  if  you 
live  properly,  has  a  right  to  the  priesthood  of  the  living  God.  Do  not 
lose  that  blessing  and  that  privilege.  And  fathers,  with  your  wives, 
teach  your  children  the  beauty  of  the  things  that  the  Lord  has  given 
to  us  as  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  they  will  be  happy  and  you 
will  be  happy,  and  your  families  will  not  be  broken  up  by  those  who 
mislead  them,  many  times  wilfully  and  maliciously. 

The  Lord's  Help  Needed 

This  is  a  day  and  age  of  the  world  when  we  need  the  Lord's 
help,  every  one  of  us.  I  am  grateful  that  we  have  almost  every- 
where now,  in  our  schools,  in  our  congress,  in  our  stakes  in  different 
parts  of  the  world,  good  men  and  good  women  that  are  not  only 
teaching  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  but  they  are  living  it.  Wonder- 
ful helps  they  are  in  the  various  places  that  they  are  in,  and  we  need 
it  all.  All  those  who  have  faith  and  live  to  be  worthy  of  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  Lord  will  be  guided  and  inspired  and  helped  in  times  of 
distress.  He  is  not  so  far  away.  He  is  our  Father.  He  loves  us 
and  wants  us  to  be  worthy  to  be  called  his  children.  This  great 
body  of  men  here  tonight,  this  marvelous  group,  every  one  of  you 


190 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


is  a  son  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  This  great  group  of  men,  every 
one  is  living  eternal  life,  and  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  was  given 
to  our  forbears  and  now  to  us,  to  prepare  us  to  live  with  him  eternal- 
ly on  this  earth  when  it  becomes  the  celestial  kingdom.  Can  you 
think  of  anything  more  wonderful? 

Blessings  and  Testimony 

May  the  Lord  add  his  blessing.  I  pray  that  he  will  bless  every 
one  of  you  fine  men,  you  teachers  in  the  schools,  you  men  in  the 
wards  and  stakes,  those  of  you  who  are  working  in  companionship 
with  men  and  boys  and  women  in  different  parts  of  the  world,  I  pray 
the  Lord  to  bless  you  that  you  will  not  lose  an  opportunity  to  help 
uplift  and  develop  and  bring  them  to  be  what  our  Father  would  have 
them  to  be,  and  they  will  be  your  companions,  then,  throughout  the 
ages  of  eternity. 

God  lives.  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of 
the  Living  God.  The  Lord  gave  to  him  the  priesthood  that  we  hold 
and  it  will  continue  to  be  passed  on  to  our  descendants  as  it  came 
from  our  forbears,  if  we  will  do  our  part. 

God  bless  you  brethren,  I  am  so  grateful  to  be  with  you. 

Think  of  what  it  means  to  be  a  royal  priesthood,  not  a  make- 
believe,  but  a  royal  priesthood,  everyone  having  contact,  if  we  will, 
with  the  power  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  the  great  King  of  kings 
and  Lord  of  lords. 

This  is  his  work  and  I  bear  my  testimony  to  you  that  I  know 
it  as  I  know  that  I  live,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord.  Amen. 

Singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus:  "Prayer  at 
Evening." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  President  John  Whitaker 
Taylor,  of  the  Lyman  Stake. 

The  congregational  singing  of  the  Conference  was  directed  by 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor,  and  Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant 
Conductor  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir. 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir  was  in  attendance  at  the  Satur- 
day afternoon  and  Sunday  sessions  and  furnished  the  choral  music 
for  those  sessions.  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  directed  the  singing  of  the 
Choir. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  of  the  Salt  Lake  Region, 
with  Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen,  director,  furnished  the  chor- 
al music  for  the  Friday  meetings. 

The  music  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast,  Sun- 
day morning,  9:30  to  10:00,  as  also  the  music  for  the  Church  o/  the 
Air  broadcast,  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Frank  W.  Asper 
was  at  the  organ  console,  and  the  spoken  word  was  by  Richard  L. 
Evans. 

The  music  for  the  General  Priesthood  meeting  was  furnished 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  191 

by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  men's  chorus,  under  the  direction  of  Spencer 
Cornwall. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played 
by  Alexander  Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper,  and  Roy  M.  Darley. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 
Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Authorities  and  Officers  Present   1 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained  141 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft   98 

Faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  98,  Distinguishing  Feature  of  True 
Church  98,  Gift  of  the  Holy  Priesthood  99,  Obligation  of  the  Priest- 
hood Bearer  100,  Spirit  of  Service  100,  Oath  and  Covenant  of  Priest- 
hood 100,  "Anxiously  Engaged  in  a  Good  Cause"  101,  Priesthood 
Exercised  Upon  Righteousness  101,  Act  in  All  Diligence  102, 
Obligations  of  Priesthood  102,  Inactive  Members  Present  Challenge 
103. 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E.   85 

God  Unchangeable  85,  The  Soundess  of  Principles  85,  The  Ten 
Commandments  86,  The  Quality  of  Stability  86,  Continuity  Needed 
in  Changes  87,  Fury  of  French  Revolution  88,  Socialistic  Exper- 
imentation 89,  Unrest  and  Turmoil  Abroad  89,  One  Truth  and  One 
Morality  90. 

Changes  in  Church  Officers,  Stake,  Ward  and  Branch  

Organizations  —   29 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  -  114 

Church  of  the  Air  109 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.  28,  56 

Clark,  President  J.  Rueben,  Jr.   77 

The  Treasures  of  Life  78,  World  In  a  Mess  78,  Proclamation  of 
Abraham  Lincoln  79,  We  Have  Had  Prophets  79,  Revelations  Given 
to  Joseph  Smith  80,  America  Needs  a  Listening  Ear  81. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.  178 

Crusade  of  Peter  the  Hermit  178,  Priesthood  an  Everlasting  Endow- 
ment 178,  Pertinent  Questions  179,  Obligation  to  Honor  Priesthood 
179. 

Cowley,  Elder  Matthew   155 

Signs  to  Follow  Believers  155,  Missionary  Labors  in  New  Zealand 
156,  Gift  of  Tongues  156,  Results  of  Administration  157,  Faith 
of  Polynesians  157,  Story  of  Pearl  Shell  Diver  158,  Honesty  in  Tithe- 
Paying  159,  Divine  Protection  in  Travels  160,  God  Opens  the  Way 
161,  Love  All  People  161. 

Curtis,  Elder  Elbert  R.  138 

Doxey,  Elder  Roy  W.  104 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L.   63 

Testimony  of  Informed  Witness  63,  Events  of  a  Century  Ago  63, 
Fame  of  Temple  Square  64,  Temple  Square  Guides  65,  Teachings 
of  Karl  G.  Maeser  65,  Repentance  and  Forgiveness  66. 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting     28 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting     2 

General  Authorities  Present   1 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained  141 

General  Priesthood  Meeting  168 

Halverson,  Elder  A.  Reed   106 


194  INDEX 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  R   14 

The  Character  of  God  14,  God  a  Personal  Being  15,  The  First 
Vision  16,  The  Holy  Trinity  16,  Revelation  of  God's  Personality  17, 
Divine  Attributes  17,  Testimony  18. 

Isaacson,  Elder  Thorpe  B.   19 

Defense  in  Spirituality  19,  Principle  of  Repentance  20,  Prayer  a 
Valuable  Habit  20,  Goodness  of  the  Lord  21,  Observance  of 
Sabbath  Day  21,  Encouragement  to  Overcome  Mistakes  22. 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R.   47 

Service  Brings  Happiness  47,  Service  of  High  Quality  48,  Missionary 
Opportunities  at  Home  49,  Record  of  Stake  Missionary  Work  49, 
Concern  for  Inactive  Neighbors  50. 

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A  130 

Need  of  Love  and  Understanding  130,  The  Russian  People  130, 
Stand  for  the  Right  131,  Faith  in  God  132. 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B.    51 

Dangers  Confronting  Our  Homes  51,  Lofty  Concepts  of  the  Home 
52,  Love  and  Desire  for  Children  52,  Miracle  of  Motherhood  53, 
Guarantees  of  a  Happy  Home  53,  Love  in  the  Home  54,  Children 
Made  Partners  54,  Respect  for  Each  Other  55,  Maintenance  of 
Spiritual  Contacts  55. 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R.   23 

"What  Think  Ye  of  Christ?"  23,  Firstborn  in  Spirit  World  23,  In 
the  Similitude  of  Christ  24,  Christ's  Earthly  Ministry  24,  Latter- 
day  Appearances  26,  Witnesses  of  Christ  26,  The  Message  of 
Salvation  27. 

McKay,  President  David  O.  57,  72,  83,  141 

McKay,  President  David  0  117 

Importance  of  Enviroment  117,  Confidence  in  Young  People  118, 
Delinquency  of  Adults  119,  Need  of  Proper  Home  Environment  119, 
Duties  of  Church  and  School  120,  White  House  Conference  Report 
120,  Delinquency  in  Hollywood  121,  Wholesome  Community  En- 
vironment 121,  Gratitude  for  the  Church  122. 

McKay,  President  David  O.  173 

The  Value  of  the  Priesthood  173,  Obligation  to  Set  Worthy  Ex- 
amples 174,  Reopening  of  Japanese  Mission  174,  "Go  Ye  There- 
fore and  Teach  All  Nations"  175,  Worthiness  of  Missionaries  175, 
Standards  of  Morality  176,  Selective  Service  Requirements  176, 
Requirements  for  Young  Women  Missionaries  177. 

McKay,  Elder  Thomas  E.   67 

Who  Am  I?  68,  Opportunities  for  Church  Service  68,  Calling  of 
a  Ward  Teacher  69,  Visit  to  Western  States  Mission  70,  The 
Good  and  the  Beautiful  70,  Builders  and  Not  Wreckers  71. 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F.   58 

Testimonies  of  Returned  Missionaries  58,  Avenues  of  Getting  Knowl- 
edge 59,  Vision  Given  to  Joseph  Smith  59,  Satan  Responsible 
for  World  Troubles  60,  The  Power  of  Satan  61,  Devil-Inspired 
Troubles  61,  Repentance  Needed  62,  Observance  of  Sabbath  Day 
62. 

Moyle,  Elder  Henry  D.   32 

The  Ways  of  the  World  32,  Objectives  of  Life  Sidetracked  32, 
Loss  of  Natural  Affection  33,  The  Significance  of  the  Home  34, 
Virtue  in  Church  Activity  35,  Parental  Influence  in  the  Home  36. 


INDEX 


195 


Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E  133 

Contrast  at  Funeral  Service  133,  the  Right  of  Choice  134,  Good 
Reading  Habits  134,  The  Improvement  Era  134,  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine  135,  The  Children's  Friend  136,  The  Deseret  News  136, 
Support  of  Church  Publications  138. 

Presentation  of  Authorities    141 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General  168 

Richards,  President  George  F.   9 

Evidences  of  God's  Existence  9,  Joseph  Smith's  First  Vision  9, 
Truth  Concerning  God  Revealed  10,  Evil  Power  of  Satan  10, 
Joseph  Smith  Chosen  for  His  Work  11,  Need  of  New  Revelation  12, 
Personality  of  God  12. 

Richards,  Bishop  LeGrand   40 

Financial  Obligations  40,  "No  Man  Can  Serve  Two  Masters"  41, 
Experience  of  Job  42,  Malachi's  Admonition  42,  A  Delightsome 
Land,  43  A  Book  of  Remembrance  43,  Redemption  of  Zion  44, 
President  Grant's  Experience  45,  Testimony  of  Law  of  Tithing  46, 
The  Lord  Fulfills  His  Promises  47. 

Richards,  Bishop  LeGrand  169 

"The  Light  of  the  World"  169,  A  Royal  Priesthood  170,  Exemplary 
Serviceman  170,  Reputation  for  Honesty  171,  The  Effects  of  Con- 
version 172. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L.  144 

Report  of  South  American  Trip  144,  "Divine  Services"  Conducted 

145,  Inconvenience  of  Receiving  Packages  146,  Hospitable  Reception 

146,  Many  Nationalities  Represented  147,  Distrust  in  Evidence  148, 
Civilization  Centers  in  Cities  149,  Promising  Prospects  Among 
Youth  149,  Missionaries  and  Saints  Faithful  150,  Gratitude  for 
Visit  151. 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G.   72 

Early  Missionary  Efforts  in  Canada  72,  Spirituality  Noted  in 
Canadian  Mission  73,  Experience  of  Enos  74,  Gospel  Effects 
Changes  75,  Results  of  Rejection  75,  Choice  Before  World  Today  77. 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   84 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting    57 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G   90 

Importance  of  Temple  Marriage  90,  Training  in  the  Home  91, 
Blessings  of  Celestial  Marriage  92,  Opportunities  for  Exalation  93. 

Smith,  President  George  Albert  2,  28,  84,  108,  116, 

132,  139,  140,  144,  155,  162,  168,  169 

Smith,  President  George  Albert   3 

Relief  Society  Conference  4,  .  Service  of  Tabernacle  Choir  4, 
Missionary  Work  5,  Center  of  Missionary  Activity  6,  Conversion 
through  Book  of  Mormon  6,  Visitors  to  Temple  Square  7,  Obedience 
Brings  Blessings  8,  Inspiration  of  General  Conference  8. 

Smith,  President  George  Albert   162 

Blessings  of  Conference  162,  The  Gift  of  Language  163,  Blessings 
of  Eternal  Life  163,  Latter-day  Scriptures  164,  Importance  of 
Revealed  Word  of  God  164,  Assurance  of  Eternal  Life  165,  Teaching 
of  Gospel  Principles  166,  Name  of  the  Church  166,  Prayer  and 
Blessing  167. 


196 


INDEX 


Smith,  President  George  Albert  180 

Contrasting  Ward  Situations  180,  Responsibilities  of  a  Bishop 
180,  Failure  of  Parents  181,  History  of  Jerusalem  182,  Freedom 
from  Babylonian  Captivity  182,  Present  Condition  of  Jews  183, 
Disraeli's  Answer  183,  Blessings  Predicated  on  Righteousness  184, 
Faith  Rewarded  on  Bear  River  185,  Office  of  a  Bishop  186,  Ward 


Teaching  186,  Blessings  Promised  Bishops  186,  False  Teachers  187, 
Honor  the  Sabbath  187,  Home  Training  188,  Protection  of  Young 
Women  188,  Watchcare  Needed  189,  The  Lord's  Help  Needed  189, 
Blessings  and  Testimony  190. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding     152 

Light  and  Truth  152,  The  Family  Unit  152,  Duties  of  Parents  153, 
Family  Organization  in  the  Hereafter  153,  Responsibility  to  Teach 
Children  154. 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers   141 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast   114 

Third  Day — Afternoon  Meeting  140 

Third  Day — Morning  Meeting   109 

Ursenbach,  Elder  Octave  W.    82 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A.  110 

Hunger  in  the  Midst  of  Plenty  110,  The  Cure  for  the  World's 
Dilemma  110,  Happiness  Begins  with  Health  111,  A  List  of  Our 
Sins  111,  Return  to  the  Spiritual  Fold  112,  Determined  Righteous- 
ness Needed  112,  Consideration  of  Individual  Man  113,  Solution 
of  World's  Troubles  113. 

Wirthlin,  Elder  Joseph  L.   123 

Youth  Program  of  the  Church  123,  Blessings  of  Aaronic  Priesthood 

124,  Duties  of  Deacons  and  Teachers  125,  The  Office  of  Priest 

125,  Achievements  of  Aaronic  Priesthood  126,  Fruits  of  Religious 
Living  127,  Blessings  of  Priesthood  Service  127,  Letter  to  Bishop 
128,  Responsibility  to  Youth  129. 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E.   37 

The  Message  All-Important  37,  Integrity  of  Missionary  Service  37, 
Tribute  to  Mission  Presidents  38,  Blessings  of  Sabbath  Observance 
38,  Problem  of  Sunday  Baseball  39. 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar    93 

Divisions  of  Christianity  94,  Dispensations  of  the  Gospel  94, 
Contributions  of  Joseph  Smith  95,  Religion  Requires  Revelation 
95,  The  Founders  of  America  96,  Carrying  the  Gospel  to  the 
Nations  96,  Duties  of  Seventies  97. 


IS  NURTURED  BY  EXPERIENCE  AND  TRUTH 


READ- 
FAITH  PROMOTING  STORIES   $1.35 

Compiled  by  Preston  Nibley 

PIONEER  STORIES   $1.35 

Compiled  by  Preston  Nibley 

THE  MORMON  PIONEERS   $2.50 

By  E.  Cecil  McGavin 

NAUVOO.  THE  BEAUTIFUL  $3.00 

By  E.  Cecil  McGavin 

THREE  MORMON  CLASSICS   $2.75 

MY  FIRST  MISSION 
George  Q.  Cannon 

LEAVES  FROM  MY  JOURNAL 
Wilford  Woodruff 

LIFE  OF  JACOB  HAMBLIN 

SWEET  LOVE  REMEMBERED   $2.75 

By  Helen  Cortez  Stafford 

PROTESTORS  OF  CHRISTENDOM   $2.00 

By  James  L.  Barker 

WORLD  RELIGIONS  IN  THE  LIGHT  OF  MORMONISM  ....$2.00 
By  Thomas  C.  Romney 

TRUTH  SEEKER  AND  MORMONISM   $1.00 

By  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

THE  CHURCH  IN  WAR  AND  PEACE  $1.00 

By  Stephen  L  Richards 

FUNDAMENTALS  OF  RELIGION   $1.50 

By  Charles  A.  Callis 

FRUITS  OF  RELIGION   $1.50 

By  Franklin  L.  West 

PROBLEMS  OF  YOUTH   $1.75 

By  Harold  B.  Lee 

CONSTANCY  AMID  CHANGE   $2.00 

By  Albert  E.  Bowen 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 
44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


Enjoy  the  Fellowship  of  Great  Minds 

by  Reading  GOOD  Books 

A  book  is  cm  invitation  to  share  the  thoughts  of  an  illum- 
inating mind.  Consider  the  enrichment  one  will  receive  from 
spending  quiet  hours  with  the  authors  of  these  books: 


Heber  J.  Grant  GOSPEL  STANDARDS   $2.25 

David  O.  McKay         ANCIENT  APOSTLES    1.25 

James  E.  Talmage       JESUS  THE  CHRIST    2.75 

ARTICLES  OF  FAITH    2.00 

Joseph  F.  Smith  GOSPEL  DOCTRINE   2.75 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith   ESSENTIALS  IN  CHURCH 

HISTORY    2.75 

TEACHINGS  OF  THE  PROPHET 

JOSEPH  SMITH    2.75 

LIFE  OF  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH    2.50 

SIGNS  OF  THE  TIMES    1.25 

RESTORATION  OF  ALL  THINGS..  1.75 

John  A.  Widtsoe         IN  SEARCH  OF  TRUTH  75 

HOW  THE  DESERT  WAS  TAMED..  1.25 

RATIONAL  THEOLOGY    1.25 

DISCOURSES  OF  BRIGHAM 
YOUNG    2.75 

Richard  L.  Evans        UNTO  THE  HILLS    1.50 

THIS  DAY  AND  ALWAYS    1.50 

"and  THE  SPOKEN  WORD"    1.50 


These  and  many  other  sources  of  inspiration  are  available 
to  you  in  the  large  stock  of  the 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

Publishers  oi  Latter-day  Saint  Literature 

44  East  South  Temple  Street 
Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 
"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 


