✓  \ 

NINETY-SIXTH 

SEMI-ANNUAL 

CONFERENCE 

Of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Assembly  Hall  and  Barrett  Hall 
Salt  Lake  Gity,  Utah 

October  4, 5  and  6 
1925 

With  a  Full  Report  of  All 
the  'Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

>  ^, 


Can  you  answer  all  of  the  questions  that  are  put  to  you 
about  the  Church? 


THE  OFFICIAL 

History  of  the  Church 

Will  answer  many  of  these  questions  for  you. 

IN  SIX  LARGE  VOLUMES 

Compiled  by  the  Church  Historians  and  published  by 
the  Church. 
Completing  the  First  Period. 

"The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  with 
introduction  and  notes  by  B.  H.  Roberts. 

Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Quorum  and 
Private  Library  should  have  a  set. 

Cloth — Embossed,  per  vol  $2.50  Postpaid 

Half  Morocco— Gilt  Top,  per  vol       3.50  " 

Full  Morocco— Full  Gilt  Edge,  vol.  6.00  " 

The  above  work  is  suggested  as  reference  in  con- 
nection with  the  study  of  Church  History  in  all  of 
the  activities  of  the  Church. 

SEND  FOR  OUR  NEW  CATALOG  FREE 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  East  South  Temple  Street         Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
P.  O.  Box  1793 


Ninety-Sixth  Semi-Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


FIRST  DAY 

The  96th  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  -Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
Sunday,  October  4,  1925. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  announced  the  opening  of  Conference 
at  10  o'clock  a.  m. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Anthony  W.  Ivins  and 
Charles  W.  Nibley. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve :  Rudger  Clawson,*  George  Albert 
Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David  O.  McKay, 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith, t  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman, 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  John  A.  Widtsoe. 

Presiding  Patriarch  :    Hyrum  G.  Smith. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy :  B.  H.  Roberts,  J.  Golden 
Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  Charles  H.  Hart, 
Levi  Edgar  Young,  Rey  L.  Pratt. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A.  Smith, 
John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  and  the 
following  assistants;  Andrew  Jenson,  B.  H.  Roberts,  A.  William  Lund. 

Presidents  of  stakes  with  their  counselors  were  well  represented 
from  the  ninety-four  stakes  of  Zion,  and  many  other  prominent  officers 
representing  the  quorums  of  the  Priesthood ;  also  general,  stake  and 
ward  officers  of  the  Church  auxiliary  organizations  were  present. 

Mission  Presidents  were  in  attendance  as  follows :  B.  H.  Roberts, 
Eastern  States;  John  H.  Taylor,  Northern  States;  Samuel  O.  Bennion, 
Central  States;  John  M.  Knight,  Western  States;  Joseph  W.  McMurrin, 
California;  Brigham  S.  Young,  Northwestern  States;  Rey  L.  Pratt, 
Mexico ;  Joseph  Quinney,  Jr.,  Canada ;  John  G.  Allred,  North  Central 


*Reed  Smoot,  absent  in  Washington. 

tjames  E.  Talmage  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission, 
tjunius  F.  Wells,  absent  in  the  East. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


States;  Chas.  A.  Callis,  Southern  States,  and  Benjamin  Goddard,  Bureau 
of  Information,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City. 

All  available  seats,  and  all  spaces  where  people  could  stand,  were 
occupied.    Others  were  gathered  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt 
Hall  where  overflow  meetings  were  held.    The  services  in  the  Taber- 
nacle were  broadcast  and  sent  by  radio  to  the  large  crowds  gathered 
'on  the  lawns  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds. 

President  Grant  announced  that  the  choir  and  congregation  would 
begin  the  services  by  singing,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet." 
Following  the  singing,  in  which  all  took  spirited  part,  the  opening 
prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Hyrum  G.  Smith,  presiding  Patriarch 
of  the  Church. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang:'  "The  morning  breaks  the 
shadows  flee." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  think  the  hymn  to  which  we  have  just  listened  is  entitled  to 
the  place  it  occupies  in  our  hymn  book,  namely,  the  first  hymn — the 
place  of  honor.   It  was  written  by  the  late  Apostle  Parley  P.  Pratt : 

A  FIRST  PLACE  POEM 

"The  morning  breaks,  the  shadows  flee; 
Lo!  Zion's  standard  is  unfurled! 
The  dawning  of  a  brighter  day, 
Majestic  rises  on  the  world. 

"The  clouds  of  error  disappear 
Before  the  rays  of  truth  divine; 
The  glory  bursting  from  afar, 
Wide  o'er  the  nations  soon  will  shine. 

"The  Gentile  fulness  now  comes  in, 
And  Israel's  blessings  are  at  hand; 
Lo!  Judah's  remnant,  cleansed  of  sin, 
Shall  in  their  promised  Canaan  stand. 

"Jehovah  speaks;  let  earth  give  ear, 
And  Gentile  nations  turn  and  live, 
His  mighty  arm  is  making  bare, 
His  cov'nant  people  to  receive. 

"Angels  from  heaven  and  truth  from  earth, 
Have  met,  and  both  have  record  borne; 
Thus  Zion's  light  is  bursting  forth, 
To  cheer  her  children's  glad  return." 

I  earnestly  desire  the  faith  and  prayers  of.  this  vast  audience 
to  assist  me  in  that  which  I  may  say  to  you  today.  I  sense  the 
great  responsibility  of  addressing  so  large  an  audience — for  this 
building  is  filled  to  overflowing — and  I  desire  that  my  remarks  shall 
encourage  and  bless  the  Saints  here  assembled. 

A  TRIBUTE  TO  PRESIDENT  PENROSE 

Since  we  last  convened  in  general  conference  one  of  the  great 
and  faithful  laborers  in  the  Church  has  departed  this  life — the  late 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


President  Charles  W.  Penrose.  Perhaps  no  man  in  all  Israel  has 
written  more  in  defense  of  the  people  than  Charles  W.  Penrose,  and 
I  believe  that  the  literature  from  his  pen  has  been  more  widely  dis- 
tributed than  the  writings  of  any  other  of  our  leading  men.  He 
spent  nearly  twenty  years  of  his  life  as  a  missionary  in  his  native 
land.  As  I  announced  at  his  funeral,  during  the  last  nine  months 
that  I  presided  over  the  European  mission  we  distributed  about 
eight  million  pages  of  the  writings  of  Charles  W.  Penrose.  I  have 
been  thrilled  by  his  discourses  from  this  stand,  from  my  childhood 
days  until  the  time  of  his  last  public  address.  He  was  inspired  in 
his  utterances,  and  he  had  the  capacity  and  the  ability  to  make 
plain  the  principles  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  as  per- 
fectly as  any  of  our  speakers  that  I  have  ever  heard.  We  also  re- 
joice from  time  to  time  in  listening  to  the  inspired  hymns  that  he 
has  written.  We  moUrn  his  loss,  but  we  rejoice  in  the  wonderful 
record  of  labor  and  service  that  he  made  in  the  spread  of  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  at  home  and  abroad. 

WILLIAM  JENNINGS,  bryan's  visit  to  salt  lake  city 

At  one  of  our  general  conferences  some  years  ago  we  were 
honored  with  the  presence  of  Senator  Owen  from  Oklahoma  and 
Honorable  William  Jennings  Bryan.  These  gentlemen  remained 
until  after  the  conference  session,  when  an  informal  organ  recital 
was  given  in  their  honor.  Perhaps  a  hundred  or  a  hundred  and 
fifty  people  were  present  and  following  the  recital,  requests  came 
from  different  parts  of  the  small  audience  that  Senator  Owen  and 
Mr.  Bryan  make  some  remarks.  They  did  so,  and  from  the  press 
reports  of  the  occasion  we  read  the  following: 

HIS  ESTIMATE  OF  "MORMONISM" 

"Mr  Bryan  said  the  truths  he  had  heard  expounded  there  that  day  he 
should  endeavor  to  carry  with  him  throughout  life,  and  he  believed  that 
through  him  many  people  might  hear  the  truth  concerning  'Mormonism,' 
for  he  would  endeavor  to  give  an  exposition  of  what  he  had  heard  in  plain 
truth  to  the  people  with  whom  he  associated.  Mr.  Bryan  said  he  had  been 
undecided  about  coming  to  Salt  Lake.  He  had  been  asked  to  speak  in  Los 
Angeles  Monday,  but  he  had  obeyed  a  whim  almost  and  had  come  to  Salt 
Lake.  He  did  not  know  why,  but  now  he  said  he  believed  it  was  providen- 
tial. At  any  rate  he  said  he  had  heard  truths  uttered  that  impressed  him 
deeply,  and  he  knows  that  he  is  better  equipped  to  perform  his  work  in  the 
world  for  having  heard  'Mormonism'  expounded.  Particularly  was  he  im- 
pressed, Mr.  Bryan  said,  with  the  'Mormon'  belief  in  the  personality  of 
God.  It  is  a  beautiful  belief,  he  said,  and  one  by  which  the  world  might 
profit.  He  referred  to  the  application  of  the  gospel  in  the  lives  of  the 
'Mormon'  people,  and  said  such  principles  applied  to  the  problems  of  the 
world  would  in  very  deed  solve  the  difficulties  with  which  the  world  is  beset. 

He  referred  to  the  single  standard  of  morality,  as  expounded  by  one  of 
the  speakers,  and  said  that  in  very  truth  that  is  a  principle  that  might  well 
be  applied  to  the  lives  of  all  men." 

HIS  LAST  SPEECH   SHOWS  HIS  PERFECT  FAITH   IN  GOD 

The  publishing  house  of  Revell  &  Co.  have  published  a  book 
containing  the  last  address  of  William  Jennings  Bryan,  which  ad- 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


dress  was  prepared  for  the  celebrated  evolution  case  in  Tennessee, 
but  was  never  delivered.  I  have  had  the  privilege  of  reading  and  re- 
reading the  book.  It  shows  that  he  had  perfect  faith  in  God  our 
heavenly  Father  and  in  my  judgment  it  is  a  very  strong  defense  of 
the  divinity  of  Christ  and  of  the  Godhood  of  our  Father  in  heaven. 

I  had  the  pleasure  of  visiting  with  Mr.  Bryan,  after  his  remarks 
following  our  conference,  and  he  said  that  he  was  expected  to  de- 
liver three  speeches  in  California  before  leaving,  but  that  he  be- 
lieved the  world  at  large  would  get  more  benefit  from  what  he  had 
learned  in  our  conference  than  the  people  would  have  received  had 
he  remained  in  California  and  delivered  those  three  speeches.  He 
promised  to  send  me  a  little  pamphlet  containing  his  ideas  about 
God.  After  reading  it  I  remember  saying  to  my  family  that  Wil- 
liam Jennings  Bryan  ought  to  be  a  Latter-day  Saint,  because  many 
of  his  views  were  in  perfect  harmony  with  our  faith.  Every  Latter- 
day  Saint  upon  the  face  of  the  earth  believes  in  the  individuality  and 
personality  of  God  our  Father,  and  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  A 
man  who  does  not  so  believe  has  no  right  to  be  called  a  Latter-day 
Saint.  Every  Latter-day  Saint  believes  absolutely  that  God  con- 
versed with  Joseph  Smith,  and  introduced  to  him  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  as  his  well-beloved  Son. 

PRESIDENT  GRANT  PRESENT  AT  HISTORICAL  EVENTS 

During  the  past  six  months  I  have  had  the  privilege  of  visiting 
in  California  and  meeting  with  the  Saints  there.  I  had  the  pleasure 
of  being  present  at  the  official  opening  of  Zion's  National  Park  in 
southern  Utah,  and  of  attending  the  general  conference  in  June  of 
the  Young  Men's  and  Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  associa- 
tion, and  also  the  Primary  association.  That  great  celebration  of 
the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  organization  of  the  Young  Men's 
Mutual  Improvement  association  was  one  of  the  grandest  that 
we  have  ever  had.  It  was  a  marvelous  outpouring  of  the  youth  of 
Israel  upon  the  streets  of  this,  the  central  city  of  Zion.  The  parade 
was  an  honor  to  the  Mutual  Improvement  association  and  a  credit 
to  the  Church.  I  believe  that  special  credit  for  that  parade  was  due 
to  the  insistence  of  Junius  F.  Wells,  the  man  called  originally  by 
Brigham  Young  to  organize  the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement 
association.  For  the  very  splendid  and  orderly  way  in  which  it 
was  conducted,  credit  is  due  to  Governor  Mabey  and  to  each  and 
every  one  of  those  on  the  committees.  Credit  is  also  due  to  the 
various  people  who  took  part  in  speaking,  singing,  or  giving  ora- 
tions or  the  various  contests,  musical  and  otherwise,  at  the  con- 
ference. My  heart  was  filled  with  gratitude  and  thanksgiving  to 
know  that  we  have  today  one  hundred  thousand  young  men  and 
young  women  in  these  Improvement  associations  interested  in 
laboring  with  zeal  and  energy  for  the  advancement  of  the  work  of 
God. 

I  had  the  pleasure  of  being  present  at  a  celebration  in  connec- 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


tion  with  the  great  dam  that  is  to  be  erected  at  American  Falls, 
where  millions  of  money  will  be  expended  and  a  vast  empire  re- 
deemed through  utilizing  the  waters  of  the  Snake  River.  It  was 
also  a  pleasure  later  to  attend  the  Burley  stake  conference.  Satur- 
day evening  I  held  a  meeting  at  Oakley  at  which  thirty  odd  per 
cent  of  the  people  of  Cassia  stake  were  in  attendance.  I  first  visited 
that  section  of  the  country  forty-four  years  ago  this  fall,  when  it 
was  only  a  branch  of  the  Grantsville  ward  of  the  Tooele  stake  of 
Zion,  numbering  perhaps  a  hundred  and  fifty  to  two  hundred  and 
fifty  Latter-day  Saints.  There  are  now  in  that  section  of  the  coun- 
try a  number  of  stakes  of  Zion,  among  them  the  Twin  Falls  stake. 
The  city  of  Twin  Falls  has  over  eight  thousand  inhabitants.  None 
of  our  people  were  located  there  at  that  time,  but  I  rejoice  in  the 
wonderful  growth  of  our  people  and  others  in  redeeming  that  sec- 
tion of  the  country. 

I  was  requested  to  go  to  Pocatello  and  dedicate  an  amusement 
hall — a  fine  large  building.  I  thought  back  to  the  time  when  I  first 
went  there  and  met  with  just  a  handful  of  Latter-day  Saints  in  a 
little  rented  hall,  and  when  I  contemplated  the  fact  that  there  are 
now  six  organized  wards  of  the  Church  at  Pocatello,  and  thought 
of  the  wonderful  growth  of  Latter-day  Saints  in  that  section,  I  re- 
joiced in  the  material  and  spiritual  advancement  of  the  people  there. 

VISITS  MANY  SCENIC  WONDERS 

I  was  requested  to  send  a  speaker  to  hold  a  meeting  at  the 
West  entrance  of  the  Yellowstone  National  Park  the  Sunday  even- 
ing that  I  was  at  Pocatello.  I  made  several  efforts  to  secure  a 
speaker  to  go  there,  but  all  those  to  whom  I  applied  were  engaged. 
So  I  decided  to  drive  from  Pocatello  myself  Sunday  afternoon,  and 
attend  the  meeting  at  West  Yellowstone.  The  next  day  and  the  day 
following  I  had  the  privilege  of  going  through  the  Yellowstone 
Park,  and  then  driving  down  to  Driggs,  where  I  held  a  meeting 
Tuesday  night.  Yellowstone  Park  can  be  reached  from  here  in  a 
night's  ride  on  the  train  and  the  scenery  there  is  among  the  grand- 
est in  all  the  world. 

Upon  my  return  home  Thursday  I  found  an  invitation  from 
my  son-in-law  to  climb  Timpanogos  the  following  Saturday,  which 
I  did.  From  the  top  of  that  mountain,  the  view  of  Wasatch,  Utah, 
and  Salt  Lake  counties,  the  cities  therein,  and  other  sections  of  the 
country  in  the  distance,  is  one  of  the  grandest  that  my  eyes  have 
ever  beheld. 

The  following  Sunday  night  I  left  for  the  scenic  wonders  of 
southern  Utah,  reaching  Cedar  Monday  morning  with  President 
Ivins  and  wife,  Sister  Grant  and  my  niece.  We  visited  Cedar 
Breaks  and  Zion  canyon,  and  the  next  day  going  to  the  Grand 
Canyon,  or  at  least  to  the  V.  T.  ranch  in  the  Kaibab  forest.  We 
saw  between  two  hundred  and  three  hundred  deer  that  afternoon 
as  we  were  traveling  to  this  ranch.  The  next  day  we  visited  Point 
Sublime  and  saw  the  Colorado  river  and  that  wonderful  gorge  in 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


which  you  could  drop  about  one  hundred  Grand  Canyons  of  the 
Yellowstone.  It  is  twelve  miles  wide  and  one  mile  deep  as  com- 
pared with  the  gorge  thirteen  hundred  feet  deep  and  two'  thousand 
feet  wide  at  the  Grand  Canyon  of  the  Yellowstone.  It  is  a  sight 
that  beggars  all  description.  It  is  a  marvel ;  it  is  a  wonder !  We 
drove  that  afternoon  to  Kanab  and  in  the  evening  held  a  meeting 
with  the  Saints.  I  rejoice  in  the  fine  meeting  house  that  they  have 
erected  there. 

The  next  day  we  visited  Bryce  Canyon,  and  I  was  more 
charmed  wjth  it  than  the  first  time  I  visited  this,  one  of  the  scenic 
wonders  of  the  world.  The  next  morning,  Friday,  September  11, 
I  parted  with  Brother  Ivins ;  he  returned  to  Salt  Lake  by  way  of 
Fish  Lake,  and  I  returned  to  Cedar  City  via  Cedar  Breaks  and  was 
present  in  the  afternoon  at  the  opening  of  the  bridge  over  Ash 
Creek,  which  connects  with  the  Black  Ridge.  I  had  the  privilege  of 
traveling  over  the  road  fifty-nine  years  ago,  when  the  wagon  in 
which  I  was  riding  jumped  from  one  black  rock  to  another,  seldom 
finding  any  ground  to  light  upon.  On  that  old  route  which  was 
selected  by  the  pioneers  who  first  went  into  St.  George  there  is 
now,  over  the  Black  Ridge,  one  of  the  finest  dirt  roads  that  I  have 
ever  had  the  privilege  of  motoring  over.  It  is  a  real  delight  to 
travel  upon  it.  The  bridge  over  Ash  Creek  is  certainly  a  very 
creditable  structure  indeed. 

In  my  travels  (in  Europe)  from  Scandinavia  on  the  north  to 
Italy,  on  the  south,  and  from  Canada  on  the  north  to  Mexico  on  the 
south,  in  Hawaii  and  in  Japan,  I  have  witnessed  many  wonderful 
scenes ;  but  if  they  were  rolled  in  together  they  do  not  compare 
with  the  Yellowstone  and  these  wonderful  sights  in  southern 
Utah — Bryce  Canyon,  Cedar  Breaks,  Zion  Canyon  and  the  scenic 
points  from  the  north  rim  of  the  Grand  Canyon  of  the  Colorado. 

THE  GREAT  MISSION  OF  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Saturday  and  Sunday  following  the  opening  of  the  bridge  over 
Ash  Creek  I  attended  the  Parowan  stake  conference  and  enjoyed 
visiting  there  with  the  Saints  and  taking  part  in  one  of  the  con- 
ferences. 

I  rejoice  in  the  wonderful  growth  in  all  the  stakes  of  Zion  from 
Canada  on  the  north  to  Mexico  on  the  south,  and  in  the  increase  of 
interest  and  faith  on  the  part  of  the  Sa'ints  throughout  the  world. 
I  rejoice  that  there  is  a  cry  for  more  missionaries,  from  all  parts 
of  the  world.  The  one  great  mission  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  at 
home  and  abroad  is  to  preach  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
to  preach  the  individuality  and  personality  of  God  and  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  to  preach  the  restoration  again  to  the  earth  of  the 
plan  of  life  and  salvation.  There  is  nothing  that  qualifies  a  man  so 
much  for  preaching  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  as  to  study 
the  revelations  that  the  Lord  has  seen  fit -to  give  us  in  our  day.  In 
them  he  says: 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


"For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none  to 
escape;  and  there  is  no  eye  that  shall  not  see,  neither  ear  that  shall  not 
hear,  neither  heart  that  shall  not  be  penetrated.  *  *  * 

"Search  these  commandments,  for  they  are  true  and  faithful,  and  the 
prophecies  and  promises  which  are  in  them  shall  all  be  fulfilled.  *  *  * 

"What  I  the  Lord  have  spoken,  I  have  spoken,  and  I  excuse  not  myself; 
and  though  the  heavens  and  earth  pass  away,  my  word  will  not  pass  away, 
but  shall  all  be  fulfilled,  whether  by  mine  own  voice  or  by  the  voice  of  my 
servants,  it  is  the  same.  *  *  * 

"Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the  service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve 
him  with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and  strength;  that  ye  may  stand 
blameless  before  God  at  the  last  day.  *  *  * 

"And  now,  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  put  your  trust  in  that  Spirit 
which  leadeth  to  do  good — yea  to  do  justly,  to  walk  humbly,  to  judge 
righteously;  and  this  is  my  Spirit. 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  I  will  impart  unto  you  of  my  Spirit, 
which  shall  enlighten  your  mind,  which  shall  fill  your  soul  with  joy.  *  *  * 

"Seek  not  for  riches  but  for  wisdom;  and,  behold,  the  mysteries  of  God 
shall  be  unfolded  unto  you,  and  then  shall  you  be  made  rich.  Behold,  he 
that  hath  eternal  life  is  rich.  *  *  * 

""Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  even  as  you  desire  of  me  so  it  shall  be 
done  unto  you;  and  if  you  desire,  you  shall  be  the  means  of  doing  much 
good  in  this  generation.  *  *  * 

"Behold,  I  speak  unto  all  who  have  good  desires,  and  have  thrust  in 
their  sickle  to  reap.  *  *  * 

"Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God.  I  am  the  life  and  the  light 
of  the  world.  *  *  * 

"Say  nothing  but  repentance  unto  this  generation.  Keep  my  command- 
ments, and  assist  to  bring  forth  my  work,  according  to  my  command- 
ments, and  you  shall  be  blessed." 

A  CENTRAL  THOUGHT  APPLYING  TO  US 

This  last  revelation  from  which  I  have  read  was  given  to  Hy- 
rum  Smith,  the  brother  of  the  Prophet  Joseph.  He  was  martyred 
with  Joseph  Smith,  as  you  all  know,  in  Carthage  jail. 

I  wish  to  emphasize  one  passage  in  this  revelation : 

"Behold,  I  speak  unto  all  who  have  good  desires,  and  have 
thrust  in  their  sickle  to  reap." 

So  that  it  applies  to  you,  to  me  and  to  all  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  The  central  thought  in  this  revelation  is  that  we  are  to  keep 
the  commandments  of  God.  It  is  reiterated  in  this  one  revelation 
some  three  or  four  or  five  times,  that  the  duty  was  upon  Hyrum 
Smith  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God  and  to  preach  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ. 

The  previous  revelation  from  which  I  quoted  was  given  to  the 
father  of  the  prophet.  I  will  repeat  the  words  of  that  part  of  it,  as 
I  did  before,  and  I  wish  to  emphasize  it  with  all  my  heart: 

"Behold,  a  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth  among  the 
children  of  men."  (As  I  look  at  this  marvelous  audience  and  think 
of  the  people  on  the  outside,  who  are  hearing  what  I  say,  as  well 
as  the  audiences  in  Barratt  Hall  and  the  Assembly  Hall,  surely  I 
can  say  that  this  revelation,  given  to  the  father  of  the  prophet  and 
the  patriarch,  has  been  literally  fulfilled.) 

"Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the  service  of  God,  see  that  ye 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


serve  him  with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and  strength,  that  ye 
may  stand  blameless  before  God  at  the  last  day." 

r 

WORTH  OF  SOULS  GREAT  IN  THE  SIGHT  OF  GOD 

I  am  well  aware  of  the  fact  that  it  is  tiresome  to  any  audience 
to  listen  to  a  speaker  when  most  of  his  time  is  occupied  in  reading; 
but  when  I  contemplate  the  fact  that  my  words  uttered  here  today 
will  be  published  in  The  Deseret  News,  which  goes  into  the  homes 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  from  Canada  on  the  north  to  Mexico  on 
the  south ;  when  I  realize  that  what  I  am  saying  here  is  to  be  pub- 
lished in  a  conference  pamphlet,  copies  of  which  will  be  sent  to 
the  missionaries  all  over  the  world,  then  I  am  far  more  anxious  to 
have  the  words  of  the  Lord  and  the  Savior  of  the  world  published 
in  this  address  than  to  make  remarks  myself.  I  desire  therefore  to 
read  what  the  Savior  said : 

"Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight  of  God; 

"For,  behold,  the  Lord,  your  Redeemer,  suffered  death  in  the  flesh; 
wherefore  he  suffered  the  pain  of  all  men,  that  all  men  might  repent  and 
come  unto  him. 

"And  he  hath  risen  again  from  the  dead,  that  he  might  bring  all  men 
unto  him,  on  conditions  of  repentance. 

"And  how  great  is  his  joy  in  the  soul  that  repenteth! 

"Wherefore,  you  are  called  to  cry  repentance  unto  this  people. 

"And  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your  days  in  crying  repent- 
ance unto  this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul  unto  me,  how  great 
shall  be  your  joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father! 

"And  now,  if  your  joy  shall  be  great  with  one  soul  that  you  have 
brought  unto  me  into  the  kingdom  of  my  Father,  how  great  will  be  your 
joy  if  you  should  bring  many  souls  unto  me! 

"Behold,  you  have  my  gospel  before  you,  and  my  rock,  and  my  salvation. 

"Ask  the  Father  in  my  name,  in  faith  believing,  that  you  shall  receive, 
and  you  shall  have  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  manifesteth  all  things  which  are 
expedient  unto  the  children  of  men. 

"And  if  you  have  not  faith,  hope,  and  charity,  you  can  do  nothing." 

This  quotation  is  from  the  18th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants. 

TESTIMONIES  OF  RETURNED  MISSIONARIES 

It  fell  to  my  lot  two  weeks  ago  today  to  sit  upon  the  stand  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  and  listen  to  the  testimonies  of  five  young  men 
who  had  just  returned  from  missions,  and  then  listen  to  the  testi- 
mony of  James  H.  Moyle,  the  father  of  one  of  those  young  men. 
My  heart  was  thrilled  with  the  testimony  they  bore,  and  their 
undoubting  knowledge  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ,  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world,  the  Savior  of  mankind,  that  Joseph  Smith  is 
a  prophet  of  the  true  and  living  God,  and  that  the  gospel,  commonly 
called  "Mormonism"  by  the  world,  is  in  very  deed  the  plan  of  life 
and  salvation  again  restored  to  the  earth. 

A  TESTIMONY  OF  THE  DIVINITY  OF  THIS  WORK 

I  rejoice  in  the  absolute  knowledge  which  I  possess,  of  the  truth 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


as  contained  in  section  76  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  which  is 
known  among  us  as  "The  Vision."  I  have  been  thrilled  with  the 
testimony  there  borne  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  as  I  have 
repeated  it  itme  and  time  again ;  and  if  it  were  repeated  every  day  of 
my  life,  as  I  supplicate  God  from  day  to  day,  it  would  do  me  no 
harm : 

"This  is  the  gospel,  the  glad  tidings,  which  the  voice  out  of  the  heavens 
bore  record  unto  us — ■ 

"That  he  came  into  the  world,  even  Jesus,  to.  be  crucified  for  the  world 
and  to  bear  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  to  sanctify  the  world,  and  to  cleanse 
it  from  all  unrighteousness; 

"That  through  him  all  might  be  saved  whom  the  Father  had  put  into 
his  power  and  made  by  him; 

"Who  glorifies  the  Father,  and  saves  all  the  works  of  his  hands,  except 
those  sons  of  perdition  who  deny  the  Son  after  the  Father  has  revealed 
him."  (Thank  God  they  are  few  and  far  between.) 

"And  now,  after  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  to  him,  this 
is  the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him:  That  he  lives! 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  the 
voice  bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father. 

"That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and  of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were 
created,  and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto 
God."  |  \  ; 

When  preaching  to  those  not  of  our  faith,  in  different  parts  of 
the  world,  I  read,  whenever  I  have  the  opportunity,  the  articles 
promulgated  by  Joseph  Smith  known  as  the  13  Articles  of  Faith  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  rejoice  in  read- 
ing them  and  in  testifying  to  those  who  know  not  the  truth  that  in 
very  deed  those  articles  have  been  vindicated ;  that  we  believe  in 
God  the  Eternal  Father,  and  in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  I  testify 
to  the  world  that  we  know  that  they  live,  because  they  appeared 
to  Joseph ;  that  we  believe  men  must  be  called  of  God,  and  we  know 
that  they  have  been  called  of  God  in  our  day,  because  the  apostles 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  ordained  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cow- 
dery.  We  believe  that  men  should  receive  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  we 
testify  to  all  the  world  that  they  have  received  it  in  this  Church. 
I  rejoice  that  all  the  gifts  and  graces,  that  were  enjoyed  in  ancient 
days —  the  speaking  in  tongues,  the  interpretation  of  tongues,  the 
healing  of  the  sick,  and  kindred  gifts  as  enumerated  in  the  Articles 
of  Faith,  are  enjoyed  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  all  over  the  world, 
wherever  this  gospel  has  gone.  I  rejoice  in  the  wonderful  faith  and 
knowledge  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  regarding  the  divinity  of  this 
work.  I  am  thankful  beyond  expression  that  wherever  this  gospel 
has  gone,  in  answer  to  humble,  faithful  prayers,  God  has  given  to 
individuals  all  over  the  world  a  knowledge  of  themselves  concern- 
ing the  divinity  of  this  work.  What  kind  of  men  and  women  should 
we  be,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  in  view  of  this  wonderful  knowledge 
that  we  possess,  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph 
Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God?    We  should  be  the  most  honest,  the 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


most  virtuous,  the  most  charitable-minded,  the  best  people  upon 
the  face  of  the  earth. 

That  God  may  help  us  to  live  up  to  the  knowledge  we  possess, 
that  we  may  grow  in  the  light  and  knowledge  and  testimony  of  the 
gospel,  and  that  our  lives  shall  be  a  bright  and  shining  testimony 
of  the  divinity  of  this  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  is  my  prayer, 
and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

MISSIONARY  CALLS 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  made  the  following  additional  re- 
marks at  the  close  of  his  opening  speech,  concerning  missionaries, 
and  missionary  calls  decided  upon : 

OPENING  OF  SOUTH  AMERICAN  MISSION 

One  announcement  I  intended  to  make,  which  undoubtedly  all 
of  you  have  seen  in  the  paper,  is  that  Elders  Melvin  J  Ballard, 
Rulon  S.  Wells  and  Rey  L.  Pratt,  have  been  called  to  go  to  South 
America  and  open  a  mission  there. 

APPEAL  FOR  ONE  MAN  FROM  EACH  WARD  FOR  MISSION  IN  THE 
UNITED  STATES 

In  addition  to  opening  a  mission  in  South  America,  as  the 
President  of  the  Church  and  the  Apostles,  we  desire  to  make  an 
appeal  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  throughout  the  Church,  from  Can- 
ada on  the  north  to  Mexico  on  the  south,  that  a  special  effort  be 
made  to  secure  in  every  ward,  from  among  men  of  mature  years 
and  sound  judgment,  who  have  had  experience  in  the  preaching  of 
the  gospel,  one  missionary,  and  where  possible  more  than  one,  who 
is  financially  able  to  go  forth  and  labor  in  the  mission  fields  of  the 
United  States,  Canada  or  Mexico  for  at  least  six  months,  at  his 
own  expense,  both  going  and  returning. 

MEN  OF  MEANS  AND  EXPERIENCE  WANTED 

Since  there  are  a  thousand  wards  in  the  Church,  this  would 
mean  a  thousand  or  more  men  of  experience  to  perform  this  labor. 
We  feel  that  men  who  have  been  prospered  and  blessed  should  be 
ready  and  willing  to  respond  to  such  a  call.  We  know  more  than  a 
thousand,  more  than  two  thousand,  have  been  so  blessed.  Many  of 
them  may  have  come  to  this  land  without  a  dollar.  Some  may  have 
borrowed  the  money  to  come  here.  The  parents  of  some  of  them 
were  perhaps  assisted  by  what  was  known  as  the  Perpetual  Emigra- 
tion Fund.  Many  of  these  men  are  now  worth  twenty-five  thou- 
sand, fifty  thousand,  one  hundred  thousand,  and  some  more  than 
one  hundred  thousand  dollars.  We  ask,  in  view  of  the  wonderful 
material  blessings  which  God  has  bestowed  upon  them,  that  they  be 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


11 


and  proclaim  this  gospel,  and  if  they  can  stay  longer,  all  well  and 
good. 

Many  of  them  have  gone  on  trips,  time  and  again,  for  three  and 
four  months,  for  pleasure  only,  and  spent  large  sums  of  their  money. 
Now  we  want  during  the  coming  year  to  have  the  greatest  of  all 
the  great  missions  that  the  Church  has  ever  had,  given  to  the  peo- 
ple of  the  world  by  one  or  two  thousand  men  who  have  been  thus 
wonderfully  blessed  financially — men  of  experience,  ability  and 
testimony.  We  believe,  in  view  of  the  wonderful  harvests  that  will 
be  of  such  great  benefit  to  the  people  in  all  sections  of  the  country 
where  the  Saints  are  located,  that  we  are  not  asking  too  much  when 
we,  as  the  Pre'sidency  and  Apostles  of  the  Church,  make  this  great 
appeal  for  missionary  service. 

The  choir  and  Hyrum  Christensen,  and  Alvina  Ridges,  grand 
daughter  of  Joseph  Ridges,  builder  of  the  Tabernacle  organ,  sang 
the  hymn,  'An  angel  from  on  high,"  after  the  hymn  had  been  announced 
and  read  in  full  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant. 

PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

Sensing  very  deeply  this  great  responsibility,  I  approach  it  in 
humility  and  with  a  desire  in  my  heart  that  I  may  be  assisted  by 
your  faith  and  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

ENDORSEMENT  OF  THE  MISSIONARY  CALL 

I  wish  to  endorse  most  heartily  the  remarks  of  our  president. 
He  has  given  an  outline  of  the  .great  work  in  which  we  are  engaged 
— the  "marvelous  work  and  a  wonder"  which  the  Lord  said, 
through  the  prophets  in  olden  times,  that  he  would  bring  to  pass  in 
the  latter  days. 

I  believe  it  will  be  an  easy  matter  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  to 
comply  with  the  president's  request  to  send  out  an  additional  1,000 
missionaries  to  the  United  States  and  Canada  and  probably  some 
to  Mexico,  to  labor  for  six  months,  or  longer,  if  the  missionaries 
feel  that  they  would  like  to  remain  longer,  and  many  of  them  will, 
no  doubt.  I  believe  it  will  be  the  greatest  missionary  effort  that 
has  been  put  forth  in  the  history  of  the  Church,  and  no  man  can 
foresee  the  great  good  that  will  be  accomplished  thereby.  Some  of 
the  wards,  many  of  them  indeed,  can  easily  spare  two  or  three  ma- 
ture, competent,  capable  men  who  have  had  experience,  and  who 
will  not  only  be  willing,  but  glad  to  go.  We  may  therefore  have 
considerably  more  than  one  from  each  ward,  in  which  event  there 
will  be  more  than  1,000  missionaries. 

MATERIAL  PROSPERITY  AND  BLESSINGS 

I  rejoice  very  much  in  the  growth  and  development  of  this 
great  work.    I  am  thankful  to  the  Lord  for  the  privilege  of  assist- 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE' 


ready  and  willing  to  respond  to  the  call  of  the  Bishops  of  their 
wards  and  the  Presidents  of  their  stakes  to  go  out  for  six  months 
ing  in  it.  I  have  been  thankful  for  that  high  privilege  all  the  days 
of  my  life,  and  I  have  tried  in  my  weak  way  to  assist  wherever  I 
have  been  called. 

President  Grant  has  referred  to  the  wonderful  productivity  of 
the  soil  during  the  past  season.  We  have  never  experienced  any- 
thing like  it  in  our  history.  The  earth  is  fairly  teeming  with  riches, 
in  its  products  of  every  kind,  and  they  are  bringing  fair  prices. 
May  I  turn  from  the  very  splendid  spiritual  talk  that  the  president 
has  delivered,  to  the  material  things  for  a  few  moments.  "Mor- 
monism"  comprises  both  the  temporal  and  spiritual ;  they  go  hand 
in  hand,  but  the  spiritual  is  first.  If  for  a  few  moments,  therefore, 
I  talk  about  temporal  things,  I  hope  you  will  pardon  me  and  that 
that  advice  and  counsel  may  not  be  lost. 

CAUTION  TO  THE  PEOPLE  TO  WISELY  CARE  FOR  THEIR  WEALTH 

What  are  we  going  to  do  with  these  great  blessings  of  the  earth 
that  the  Lord  has  given  and  is  giving  us  this  season?  I  was  told 
only  a  week  or  two  ago  that  down  at  Delta,  and  over  in  the  Vernal 
country  also,  where  they  were  threshing  alfalfa  seed,  in  fact,  wher- 
ever it  was  known  that  a  farmer  had  a  little  surplus  money,  certain 
individuals  were  swarming  like  vultures,  seeking  to  present  every 
sort  of  scheme  imaginable  to  try  to  separate  that  farmer  from  his 
money.  They  were  going  to  make  him  rich  "quick."  All  he  had  to 
do  was  to  invest  his  little  surplus  in  some  scheme  which  this  glib 
talker  could  portray  in  glowing  terms,  and  it  would  make  him  rich. 
The  talker  did  not  know  how  to  make  himself  rich — of  course  not 
— but  he  was  going  to  make  the  farmer  rich. 

TAKE  COUNSEL  BEFORE  YOU  INVEST  IN  PRESENTED  SCHEMES 

I  have  had  some  experience  with  this  class  of  people,  and  with 
such  schemes.  I  have  been  fooled  myself  more  than  once,  though 
once  ought  to  be  enough  for  any  man.  I  have  tried  mines,  and  I 
have  tried  oil — not  the  flow  that  Andy  Gump  pictures,  but  oil 
spouting  from  the  ground,  assuring  riches  quickly;  and  I  have  been 
fooled  in  every  one  of  them.  It  is  my  advice,  my  counsel  to  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  you  "pass  up"  the  people  that  come 
with  these  get-rich-quick  schemes.  Otherwise  you  will  be  de- 
ceived ;  and  you  will  be  disappointed ;  you  will  lose  your  money. 
If  you  have  surplus  means  to  invest^and  I  hope  you  will  have, 
consult  the  president  of  the  stake,  consult  the  bishop  of  the  ward, 
consult  your  banker.  Usually  the  banker  in  a  community  is  a  safe 
man  to  consult  in  respect  to  investments.  There  are  plenty  of  safe 
and  sane  investments  that  may  be  made  on  which  you  can  be  abso- 
lutely sure  and  certain  to  receive  a  fair  return.  So  my  advice,  my 
counsel  is  to  turn  away  from  men  who  are  trying  to  make  you  rich 
over  night.   It  cant'  be  done. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIB  LEY 


13 


THE  SOUND  COUNSEL  OF  BRIGHAM  YOUNG  APPLIES  TODAY 

President  Young  used  to  counsel  the  Saints  in  his  day  to  invest 
in  something  that  they  knew  about,  such  as  land,  cattle,  sheep  and 
the  like.  "Make  your  investments,"  he  said,  "in  something  you 
know  about,  and  keep  out  of  mining."  The  time,  he  said,  had  not 
come  to  develop  mining.  Mining,  of  course,  is  a  legitimate  busi- 
ness, we  cannot  do  without  the  minerals  and  the  precious  metals. 
The  world  could  not  get  along1  without  copper,  lead,  zinc,  tin  and 
other  minerals ;  even  silver  and  gold  are  needed  also.  President 
Young's  counsel  at  that  time  was,  as  you  may  read  in  his  sermons : 
"You,  brethren  and  sisters,  who  will  stay  here  at  home  and  attend 
to  your  farms,  look  after  what  you  have,  I  promise  you  that  you 
will  be  richer  and  better  off  than  if  you  go  away  hunting  mines." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  that  counsel  is  just  as  sound  today,  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  as  it  was  the  day  President  Young  gave  it.  It  is 
good  sense  yet.  Let  me  say  here  that  "Mormonism"  is  good  sound 
sense.  I  know  of  investments  that  have  been  made  in  coal  mines 
which  have  not  turned  out  very  satisfactory.  Some  fellow  comes 
along,  and  he  has  a  coal  mine  prospect.  If  you  will  only  invest  your 
money  in  a  coal  mine  you  are  sure  to  get  rich  quickly. 

.  Well,  people  invested  up  in  Cache  valley  and  in  southern  Utah. 
What  is  the  result?  Hundreds  of  thousands  of  dollars  were  frit- 
tered away  and  lost  in  that  way.  That  is  not  good  judgment,  nor 
does  it  show  good  sense.  And  this  is  not  only  the  case  in  coal 
mines;  we  have  communications  come  to  the  president's  office 
sometimes  about  "dream"  mines.  Some  brother  or  sister  has 
dreamed  about  a  mine  located  in  a  certain  place,  and  it  is  a  sure 
thing,  because  it  has  been  "revealed."  Well,  now,  don't  take  any 
stock  in  such  "revelations,"  they  will  not  "pan  out."  You  will  only 
be  disappointed.  Save'  your  means  and  use  them  wisely.  If  we 
have  means,  and  we  owe  any  debts,  our  first  duty  is  to  pay  our 
debts.  If  we  owe  a  mortgage,  for  goodness  sake  wipe  out  the 
mortgage  before  we  buy  a  new  car.  It  is  fine  to  have  a  new  car, 
and  I  rejoice  to  see  the  many  thousands  that  are  parked  in  the 
streets  around  this  block.  Every  street  seems  filled  with  automo- 
biles. I  am  glad  you  have  them,  but  don't  buy  any  new  cars  while 
there  is  a  mortgage  on  the  home  or  on  the  farm. 

CULTIVATE  THE  SPIRIT  OF  THRIFT  AND  SAVING 

Try  to  economize,  try  to  save.  We  have  almost  lost  the  spirit 
of  thrift  and  saving.  We  hardly  know  what  it  is.  Our  children 
run  wild  to  picture  shows.  It  is  only  25  cents  to  attend  a  picture 
show,  and  there  are  only  four  or  five  children,  and  they  only  go 
three  or  four  or  five  times  a  week,  and  the  money  is  gone,  frit- 
tered away.  What  good  has  been  done  with  it?  "Well,"  one  says, 
"do  you  want  the  children  to  be  shut  up  and  not  have  any  amuse- 
ment?" No,  people  will  have  amusement;  children  need  it;  but  we 
are  going  to  extremes  foolishly,  spending  money  in  excess  of  our 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


means.  We  do  not  save;  we  have  lost  the  old-time  spirit  of  New 
England  thrift  or  of  Scotch  thrift.    We  don't  know  what  it  means. 

REMEMBER  YOUR  OBLIGATIONS  TO  THE  LORD 

Then  there  is  another  debt  that  we  will  owe  this  fall,  not  to 
our  neighbors,  but  to  the  Lord,  who  has  given  us  this  wonderful 
harvest.  Will  we  remember  and  pay  our  tithes  and  our  offerings 
to  him,  to  help  build  up  this  work?  If  you  could  see  the  stack  of 
applications  for  the  building  of  meeting  houses  all  over  the  world, 
you  would  realize  that  we  will  never  get  more  than  is  needed. 
There  will  always  be  more  applications,  I  believe,  as  this  work 
grows  and  extends,  than  there  will  be  means  in  hand  to  fill  them. 
We  cannot  do  better  with  our  tithes  than  build  good  church  edi- 
fices for  the  Saints  to  worship  in,  places  where  our  young  people 
may  meet,  instead  of  running  here  and  there,  wasting  our  money. 

COUNSEL  TO  THE  YOUNG  TO  MARRY 

When  boys  and  girls  arrive  at  the  age  of  manhood  and  woman- 
hood they  should  be  counseled  to  marry,  to  settle  down  and  raise 
families.  That  is  the  very  purpose  of  our  being  here.  We  are  sent 
to  this  earth  to  pass  through  this  stage  of  experience,  to  bring  to 
pass  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  to  make  it  possible  for  the  spirits 
that  are  waiting  to  come  and  tabernacle  in  the  flesh,  to  have  the 
opportunity.  So  it  is  much  better  for  the  young  people  to  get  mar- 
ried and  settle  down  rather  than  to  be  running  hither  and  yon, 
spending  their  means,  not  knowing  how  to  save,  or  how  to  curtail 
expenses.  But  today  the  tendency  is,  not  only  here  but  all  through 
the  country,  to  put  off  marriage.  "We  haven't  means  enough,"  they 
say ;  "we  haven't  saved  enough."  Well,  a  good  young  man  and  a 
good  young  woman,  working  together,  can  save  money  anywhere 
and  any  time,  if  they  will  only  make  up  their  minds  to  do  it.  All  it 
needs  is  work,  application  and  saving.  Just  five  words  spell  pros- 
perity, success  and  happiness — five  words  only — and  they  are  these : 
"Spend  less  than  you  get." 

SACRIFICE  FOR  THE  GLORY  OF  THE  LORD  AND  THE  CHURCH 

Brethren  and  sisters,  shall  we  not  sacrifice  for  this  work?  Are 
we  losing  the  spirit  of  sacrifice  that  existed  in  the  Church  in  years 
gone  by?  Are  we  forgetting  what  our  fathers  and  mothers  did,  and 
the  sacrifices  they  made?  Are  we  not  willing  to  respond  to  the  call 
of  the  president  and  to  work  in  the  spirit  of  sacrifice  for  the  glory 
of  the  Lord  and  the  credit  of  his  Church,  that  it  may  be  built  up 
and  made  glorious?  Let  us  make  this  place  the  best  there  is  in 
the  world,  as  I  believe  it  is  now,  in  point  of  citizenship.  A  com- 
munity of  this  kind,  without  a  single  beggar  of  our  membership  on 
the  street,  is  the  best  I  know  of.  A  community  of  this  size,  with 
as  low  a  death  rate  and  as  high  a  birth  rate  (although  not  high 
enough),  is  a  community  that  I  don't  know  the  like  of  anywhere 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY  15 


in  the  world.  So  the  Lord  is  working  through  us  and  is  making  us 
a  little  better;  but  we  are  forgetting,  I  fear,  that  spirit  of  sacrifice 
with  which  our  fathers  and  mothers  built  up  this  country  and 
passed  through  all  the  struggles  and  trials  incident  thereto.  I  hope 
we  will  try  to  impress  that  spirit  upon  our  own  minds  and  upon 
the  minds  of  our  children. 

WE  ARE  ENGAGED  IN  THE  LORD'S  WORK 

The  Lord  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  may  he  bless 
Zion.  The  Lord  will  comfort  Zion,  and  will  establish  his  kingdom. 
He  is  doing  it.  It  is  not  the  presidency  and  apostles,  the  seventy 
and  bishopric,  the  presidents  of  stakes  and  the  bishops  of  wards 
who  are  doing  this  great  work,  let  me  tell  you.  They  are  faithful 
servants,  willing  to  be  used,  willing  to  help,  willing  to  devote  their 
lives  to  the  upbuilding  of  the  kingdom ;  but  it  is  the  Lord  God  Al- 
mighty who  is  building  up  this  work,  caring  for  it  and  leading  it; 
and  his  power  of  leadership  is  just  as  strong  in  it  today,  through 
the  president  of  the-  Church,  as  it  ever  was  in  the  history  of  the 
Church.  The  Lord  Almighty  lives.  He  is  the  only  true  and  living 
God,  and  we  believe  in  him,  and  in  Jesus  Christ  whom  he  has  sent. 
May  that  faith  in  him  and  in  his  Son  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost  be  in- 
creased in  our  hearts,  and  may  we  turn  our  hearts  and  minds  to 
him  and  say:  "Lord,  take  me  and  use  me.  I  will  devote  myself 
and  my  energies  to  the  upbuilding  of  thy  cause  and  kingdom  in  the 
earth."  I  humbly  pray  that  we  may  be  endowed  with  this  spirit, 
and  I  ask  this  blessing  and  all  blessings  upon  this  Church,  upon 
this  people,  and  upon  this  nation  as  well,  and  those  who  administer 
its  affairs,  as  well  as  upon  all  the  nations  of  the  earth,  where  right- 
eousness is  sought,  where  the  people  desire  peace  on  earth  and 
good  will  towards  men.  I  ask  blessings  upon  all,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  a  tremendous  gathering  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  trust  that  by  the  aid  of  the  radio  my_  voice 
will  reach  you. 

WHO  CAN  DRAW  THE  LINE  BETWEEN  SPIRITUAL  AND  TEMPORAL 

In  times  past,  and  perhaps  to  some  extent  up  to  the  present 
time,  criticism  has  been  offered  against  the  leaders  of  the  Church 
for  being  engaged  in  business  affairs.  It  is  said,  by  some  people, 
perhaps  even  by  some  who  are  in  the  Church,  that  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church  ought  to  be  devoted  entirely  and  wholly 
to  spiritual  affairs,  and  not  be  engaged  in  temporal  affairs,  or  in 
business.  I  think  the  stand  is  taken  through  a  misunderstanding. 
I  am  of  opinion  that,  if  the  leaders  of  the  Church  should  withdraw 
entirely  from  business  affairs,  the  purposes  of  the  Lord  con- 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


cerning  Zion  would  fail.  I  grant  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the 
spiritual  takes  the  precedence.  It  is  of  greater  consequence  than 
material  or  temporal  things,  but  who  among  us  has  the  wisdom  to 
draw  the  line  between  the  spiritual  and  the  temporal,  and  to  say 
where  the  spiritual  ends  and  the  temporal  begins?  I  am  sure  that 
I  haven't  that  wisdom,  and  really  I  don't  think  it  can  be  done. 

JOSEPH,  THE   PROPHET,   THOUGH   SPIRITUAL,  HAD   MUCH   TO  DO  WITH 

THE  TEMPORAL 

About  a  hundred  years  ago  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  was  organized,  and  in  those  early  days,  a  leader 
was  needed  who  had  eminent  spiritual  talents  and  ability.  It  was 
necessary  that  that  man  should  be  in  constant  communication 
with  the  heavens,  and  should  have  the  gift  and  power  of  revelation, 
that  by  this  spirit  he  might  declare  the  will  of  God  to  his  people. 
He  would  necessarily  occupy  a  parallel  position  to  that  which  was 
held  by  the  Apostle  Peter  when  the  Lord  said  to  Peter  that  he 
would  give  unto  him  the  keys  of  the  Kingdom  of  Heaven,  that 
whatsoever  he  should  bind  upon  the  earth  should  be  bound  in 
heaven,  and  that  whatsoever  he  should  loose  upon  the  earth  should 
be  loosed  in  heaven.  Such  was  the  spirit  and  power  and  gift  that 
rested  upon  Joseph  Smith.  The  Lord  said  to  him  in  a  great  revela- 
tion, Sec.  132  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

"And  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  that  whatsoever  you  seal  on  earth 
shall  be  sealed  in  heaven;  and  whatsoever  you  bind  on  earth,  in  my  name 
and  by  my  word,  saith  the  Lord,  it  shall  be  eternally  bound  in  the  heavens; 
and  whosesoever  sins  you  remit  on  earth  shall  be  remitted  eternally  in  the 
heavens;  and  whosesoever  sins  you  retain  on  earth  shall  be  retained  in 
heaven. 

"And  again,  verily  I  say,  whomsoever  you  bless  I  will  bless,  and  whom- 
soever you  curse  I  will  curse." 

And  so,  in  this  manner,  the  keys  to  the  kingdom  of  heaven 
were  delivered  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Shall  we  say  that  he 
was  spiritually  minded?  Yea,  verily,  for  he  had  to  do  largely 
with  spiritual  things.  The  Lord  said  to  him  that  his  strength  was 
not  in  temporal  things,  but  in  that  which  was  spiritual.  Neverthe- 
less— and  this  is  a  thing  I  want  to  emphasize  at  this  point — never- 
theless the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  had  to  do  with  temporal  things. 
He  with  his  associates  founded  the  city  of  Kirtland ;  he  founded  the 
city  of  Nauvoo,  which  was  sometimes  called  "Nauvoo  the  Beauti- 
ful." Truly  it  was  a  beautiful  city,  and  surely  it  was  a  modern  city. 
Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  was  a  member  of  the  first  city  council 
of  Nauvoo.  When  the  Nauvoo  Legion  was  organized  Joseph 
Smith,  the  Prophet,  was  elected  Lieutenant  General,  which  position 
he  held  until  his  death.  He  had  occasion  many  times  to  counsel 
the  people  in  temporal  things,  as  well  as  to  deliver  to  them  the 
great  spiritual  commandments  of  God.  Where  can  you  find  a 
separation  there?  Where  is  the  line  between  the  temporal  and  the 
spiritual? 


I 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


17 


BRIGHAM  YOUNG  WAS  GIFTED  IN  BOTH  SPIRITUAL  AND  TEMPORAL  THINGS 

When  Brigham  Young  was  called  to  lead  the  Latter-day  Saints 
out  of  bondage,  out  from  Missouri,  out  and  away  from  Illinois,  and 
away  from  Nauvoo  the  Beautiful ;  to  lead  that  people  into  the 
■  wilderness,  it  was  needful,  I  apprehend,  that  he  should  be  endowed 
with  high  spiritual  attainments,  that  he  could  counsel  the  people 
for  the  welfare  of  their  very  souls.  It  was  needful  also,  surely  it 
was  needful,  that  he  should  have  a  practical  view  of  life,  that  he 
should  have  some  knowledge  of  temporal  things  and  temporal  con- 
ditions, and  such  was  the  case.  Let  me  tell  you,  brethren  and 
sisters,  as  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  was  the  man  of  the  hour  in 
his  day,  surely  Brigham  Young  was  the  man  of  the  hour  in  his 
time — a  man  of  destiny,  who  led  the  people  across  the  plains  under 
the  direction  and  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  God.  Brigham  Young 
was  a  great  leader  of  men.  He  brought  them  into  these  mountain 
vales,  and  here  it  was  that  he,  with  his  associates,  founded  a  great 
commonwealth.  Cities  and  towns  sprang  up  and  were  laid  out  in 
a  spirit  of  wisdom  and_  most  excellent  judgment.  Look  at  Salt 
Lake  City,  with  its  wide  streets,  and  noble  shade  trees,  with  ample 
room  for  turning  around  and  getting  through.  Great  foresight 
and  wisdom  were  exhibited  in  the  founding  of  Salt  Lake  City, 
Ogden  and  Logan  on  the  north,  Provo  on  the  south,  and  other 
cities  and  towns.  It  was  under  the  direction  of  Brigham  Young 
that  this  intermountain  region  was  pioneered  and  colonized.  He 
had  superior  temporal  gifts  and  superior  spiritual  gifts.  Brigham 
Young  was  one  of  the  first  to  recognize  the  advantage  of  coopera- 
tion. But  he  was  not  the  first  in  this  great  latter-day  movement. 
Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  was  the  first,  because  he  gave  the  people, 
by  the  gift  of  revelation,  the  principle  of  the  United  Order,  which 
is  a  very  high  and  advanced  form  of  cooperation.  Cooperation  you 
might  say  is  the  lesser  law.  The  United  Order  is  the  higher  law. 
The  Lord  declared  in  unmistakable  language  that  if  we  would  be- 
come one  in  heavenly  things  we  must  also  become  one  in  earthly 
things,  but  when  that  will  be  I  do  not  know.  Cooperation  is  a 
step  in  that  direction.  President  Brigham  Young  and  his  associ- 
ates, the  apostles  and  others,  preached  that  doctrine  both  loud  and 
long.  All  the  day  long  and  all  the  night  long  for  years,  the  people 
were  advised  to  come  together  and  combine,  and  cooperate  in  their 
business  affairs,  in  handling  temporal  matters,  building  grist  mills, 
building  woolen  mills,  in  manufacturing  sugar,  in  establishing  a 
life  insurance  company,  banking  and  in  carrying  on  the  mercantile 
business.    This  they  have  done. 

THE  PRINCIPLE  OF  CO-OPERATION  APPLIES  TO  BOTH  RELIGION 
AND  BUSINESS 

It  will  be  conceded,  I  think,  by  those  who  are  familiar  with 
present  conditions  in  Zion,  that  the  business  of  these  enterprises 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  institutions  has  been  wisely  administered,  and  the  tremendous 
strength  and  power  exerted-  by  them  are  due  mainly  to  the  prin- 
ciple of  cooperation.  The  principle  of  cooperation  enables  us  to  live 
rapidly  and  accomplish  much  in  short  periods  of  time.  It  might 
be  illustrated  in  this  way.  One  hundred  men  can  accomplish 
as  much  in  one  day  as  one  man  can  accomplish  in  one  hundred  days. 

The  cooperative  principle  applies  as  logically  to  farming  and 
fruit  raising  as  it  does  to  banking  and  the  mercantile  business,  or 
the  manufacture  of  sugar,  or  the  insurance  business. 

Dixie  on  the  south  has  long  been  regarded  as  a  somewhat 
desert  country,  dry  and  unproductive.  Brethren  and  sisters,  that 
is  a  fallacy. 

CO-OPERATION  IN  FARMING  VS.  INDIVIDUAL  EFFORT 

At  a  priesthood  meeting  in  St.  George  the  other  day,  at  which 
I  was  in  attendance,  several  brethren,  notably  bishops,  gave  their 
experience  regarding  the  matter  of  fruit  raising  in  such  places  as 
Hurricane,  LaVerkin,  Santa  Clara  and  St.  George.  By  actual  test 
on  their  part  it  was  found  that  one  acre  of  a  hundred  Delicious  apple 
trees  would  produce  four  hundred  bushels,  which  if  sold  at  $1.90 
per  bushel  would  bring  $760. — that  one  acre  of  Jonathan  apple  trees 
would  yield  fourteen  hundred  twenty-eight  bushels,  which  if  sold 
at  $1  per  bushel  would  bring  $1,480.  That  an  acre  of  apricot  trees 
would  bring  $1,093.  That  an  acre  of  100  trees  of  French  prunes, 
dried,  would  produce  a  value  of  $2,048.  That  an  acre  of  160  pear 
trees  would  produce  a  value  of  $1,012.  That  one  acre  of  grape  vines 
would  produce  a  value  of  $556.  Remember  these  figures  were 
taken  from  actual  tests.  With  wise  and  intensive  cultivation  it 
can  be  done.  What  is  needed  in  Dixie  as  in  other  places  in  Utah, 
and  other  parts  of  Zion,  is  a  united  effort  among  the  farmers  and 
fruit  growers,  a  careful  grading  of  fruit,  and  the  establishment  of 
packing  houses  at  convenient  places  by  the  fruit  growers  where 
they  could  bring  their  fruit,  and  from  which  places  it  could  be 
shipped  in  carload  lots  to  the  market.  In  this  matter  cooperation 
means  success — individual  efforts  often  lead  to  failure,  or  partial 
failure. 

The  Lord  bless  you  and  prosper  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang:  "Watching  over  Israel." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Henry  H.  Rolapp,  of  the 
Church  auditing  committee. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p:  m. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W .  IVINS 


19 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

At  2  o'clock  p.  m.,  President  Heber  J.  Grant  stated  that  the  choir 
and  congregation  would  sing,  as  the  opening  hymn:  "The  Spirit  of 
God  like  a  fire  is  burning." 

After  the  song,  Elder  George  Ray  Maycock,  president  of  the 
Kolob  stake,  offered  prayer. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

It  is  a  source  of  gratification,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
another  opportunity  is  afforded  us  of  assembling  in  general  confer- 
ence under  the  favorable  circumstances  which  exist. 

I  stand  before  you  this  afternoon  with  great  trepidation,  facing 
this  large  congregation  of  people,  and  pray  that  I  may  have  your 
support,  and  the  support  of  our  Father  in  Heaven,  during  the  few 
moments  which  I  expect  to  occupy. 

THE  SPIRIT  OF  PROPHECY  VS.  THE  WISDOM  OF  MAN 

As  a  basis  for  the  remarks  which  I  desire  to  make  I  will  read 
briefly  from  the  second  general  epistle  of  the  Apostle  Peter  to  the 
Church.  He  had  been  bearing  testimony  to  the  divinity  of  the 
mission  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  World,  had  recounted  the  many  evi- 
dences of  his  divinity  to  which  the  people  were  witnesses,  and  con- 
cluded with  these  words : 

"We  have  also  a  more  sure  word  of  prophecy,  whereunto  ye  do  well 
that  ye  take  heed,  as  unto  a  light  that  shineth  in  a  dark  place,  until  the  day 
dawn,  and  the  day  star  arise  in  your  hearts.  Knowing  this  first,  that  no 
prophecy  of  the  scripture  is  of  any  private  interpretation. 

"For  the  prophecy  came  not  in  old  time  by  the  will  of  man,  but  holy 
men  of  God  spake  as  they  were  moved  by  the  Holy  Ghost." 

The  spirit  of  prophecy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  which  the 
scripture  I  have  read  refers,  is  the  word  of  the  Lord  which  comes  to 
the  Church,  through  the  agencies  he  has  provided. 

It  must  always  continue  with  the  Church  if  one  purposes  of 
the  Father,  as  they  apply  to  his  chidlren,  here  upon  earth,  are  to 
be  accomplished,  for  without  the  word  of  prophecy,  which  is  the 
word  of  the  Lord,  expressed  through  those  whom  he  has  appointed, 
and  who  have  been  sustained  by  the  voice  of  the  people  who  make 
up  the  membership  of  the  Church,  we  are  left  to  depend  upon  the 
wisdom  of  man,  and  if  we  are  to  judge  the  future  by  the  past,  the 
time  will  never  come  when  the-wisdom  of  man  alone  will  be  suf- 
ficient to  lead  us  on  to  the  ultimate  ideal  of  the  perfect  life,  to 
which  we  aspire. 

At  the  afternoon  meeting,  on  Tuesday,  if  we  follow  our  usual 
mode  of  procedure,  the  names  of  the  men  who  have  been  designated 
to  direct  the  affairs  of  the  Church  at  the  present  time,  will  be  pre- 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


sented  to  you,  and  you  will  vote  to  sustain  them  as  prophets,  seers, 
and  revelators. 

I  sometimes  wonder  if  the  keys  of  authority  which  belong  to 
the  office  and  calling  of  one  who  occupies  this  exalted  position  in 
the  Church,  is  fully  understood  by  the  people. 

CHARACTER  AND  DUTY  OF  PROPHETS,  SEERS  AND  REVELATORS 

A  careful  study  of  the  etymology  of  the  word  and  of  the  lives, 
works  and  character  of  the  prophets  of  old  makes  clear  the  fact 
that  a  prophet  was,  and  is,  one  called  to  act  as  God's  messenger. 
He  is  to  teach  men  the  character  of  God,  and  define  and  make 
known  to  the  people,  his  will.  He  is  to  denounce  sin,  and  declare 
the  punishment  of  trangression.  He  is  to  be  above  all  else  a 
preacher  of  righteousness,  and  when  the  people  depart  from  the 
path  which  he  has  marked  out  for  them  to  follow,  is  to  call  them 
back  to  the  true  faith.  He  is  an  interpreter  of  the  scripture,  and 
declares  its  meaning  and  application.  When  future  events  are  to 
be  declared  he  predicts  them,  but  his  direct,  and  most  important 
calling  is  to  be  a  forth-teller,  or  director  of  present  policy,  rather 
than  a  foreteller  of  that  which  is  to  come. 

There  is  but  little  difference  between  the  calling  of  a  prophet 
and  that  of  a  seer,  or  revelator.  Saul,  who  had  been  sent  by  his 
father  on  an  errand  which  appeared  to  be  impossible  of  accomplish- 
ment, said  to  the  servant  who  accompanied  him,  let  us  return ;  but 
the  servant,  knowing  that  Samuel,  the  prophet  of  the  Lord,  was  in 
the  city  where  they  chanced  to  be,  replied :  Let  us  go  thither. 
Peradventure  he  can  show  us  the  way  in  which  we  are  to  go,  and 
here  we  are  told  that  before-time  in  Israel,  when  a  man  went  to 
inquire  of  God,  thus  he  spake :  "Come  and  let  us  go  to  the  seer,  for 
he  that  is  now  called  a  prophet,  was  before  time  called  a  seer." 

The  scripture  also  tells  us  that  when  King  David  was  up  in  the 
morning,  the  word  of  the  Lord  came  to  the  prophet  Gad,  David's 
seer,  instructing  him  to  deliver  a  certain  message  to  the  king. 

It  will  thus  be  seen  that  the  words  prophet  and  seer  are  used 
inter-changeably,  and  have  practically  the  same  meaning.  In  the 
revelations  which  have  been  given  for  the  direction  of  the  Church, 
in  the  present  dispensation,  the  Lord  says : 

"The  duty  of  the  president  of  the  high  priesthood  is  to  preside  over 
the  whole  Church,  and  to  be  like  unto  Moses,  Yea,  to  be  a  seer,  a  revelator, 
a  translator  and  prophet,  having  all  the  gifts  of  God,  which  he  bestows 
upon  the  head  of  the  Church." 

I  have  made  these  introductory  remarks,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  in  the  hope  that  you  may  better  understand  the  calling  and 
responsibility  which  develops  upon  these  men  whom  you  sustain 
as  the  presiding  authorities  of  the  Church,  to  be  prophets,  seers  and 
revelators  to  it. 

As  I  have  defined  the  calling  and  responsibility  of  a  prophet, 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS  21 


you  are  my  witnesses  that  these  men  who  are  before  you  today 
are  discharging  the  responsibility  which  has  been  placed  upon  them. 
They  are  expounding  the  scriptures,  calling  men  to  repentance  from 
sin  and  transgression,  and  pointing  out  the  way  which,  if  you  walk 
in  it,  will  lead  you  back  into  the  presence  of  our  Heavenly  Father, 
and  Jesus  Christ,  his  Only  Begotten  Son. 

OUR  PERILOUS  TIMES  NEED  THE  DIRECTING  POWER  OF  PROPHECY 

I  believe  that  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  you  my  friends 
who  may  be  present,  who  are  not  members  of  the  Church,  but  are 
interested  in  and  carefully  studying  existing  conditions  in  the  world, 
will  agree  with  me  in  the  conclusion  which  I  have  reached,  that  if 
there  has  ever  been  a  time  when  the  spirit  of  prophecy  has  been 
needed  to  compose  and  harmonize  the  conflicting  forces  which  are 
warring  one  against  the  other,  when  the  word  of  the  Lord  is  neces- 
sary in  order  that  these  questions,  which  are  shaking  the  very 
foundations  upon  which  our  religious,  social  and  political  structures 
are  builded  may  be  settled,  it  is  the  day  in  which  we  live. 

In  some  localities  the  social  laws  which  have  from  the  begin- 
ning of  time,  as  we  count  it,  given  protection  to  the  family  relation, 
and  made  possible  the  development  of  the  world  to  its  present  social 
condition  and  civlization,  are  entirely  ignored,  while  in  others  they 
are  perilously  near  chaos. 

The  world  war,  instead  of  bringing  the  allied  nations  closer  to- 
gether, as  we  had  hoped  that  it  might,  threatens,  because  of  the 
financial  complications  which  have  arisen,  to  drive  us  farther  apart, 
while  in  the  school  of  religion  conflicting  opinions  threaten  to  bring 
chaos  to  existing  theories  regarding  our  relationship  to  God,  and 
the  present  and  future  state  of  man,  as  it  applies  to  eternal  life. 

Already  the  people  are  assembling  in  two  hostile  camps,  one 
calling  itself  fundamentalists,  the  other  modernists,  one  professing 
to  base  its  conclusions  on  the  truths  brought  out  by  modern 
scientific  research,  the  other  on  the  Word  of  the  Lord,  as  it  has 
come  down  to  us  in  sacred  writ,  regardless  of  its  harmony,  or  lack 
of  harmony  with  modern  thought,  or  the  onward  march  of  scientific 
investigation. 

It  is  not  a  new  controversy,  but  one  which  has  characterized 
every  gospel  dispensation  which  has  existed  from  the  beginning  to 
the  present. 

Men  highly  educated,  and  trained  in  certain  fields  of  scientific 
research,  with  but  limited  knowledge  of  the  great  plan  of  human 
redemption,  provided  by  the  Lord  for  the  blessing  of  his  children, 
proceed  to  point  out  certain  obscure  passages  which  may  be  found 
in  the  Bible,  and  which  may  have  no  bearing  at  all  on  the  relation- 
ship of  man  to  his  Maker,  thus  seeking  to  bring  the  entire  book  to 
ridicule,  and  destroy  faith  in  it  as  a  divine  revelation  from  God. 

On  the  other  hand  men  knowing  little  of  the  great  truths  which 
have  come  to  the  world  through  the  investigations  of  men,  denounce 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


all  modern  thought,  sometimes  even  when  it  is  demonstrated  truth, 
if  it  does  not  appear  to  harmonize  with  their  interpretation  of  the 
written  word  of  the  Lord. 

The  controversy,  it  appears  to  me,  is  one  which  might  be  more 
readily  composed  if  the  parties  to  it  better  understood  both  sides  of 
the  question  under  discussion,  and  were  governed  by  a  spirit  of 
tolerance  and  reason,  rather  than  one  of  dogmatism. 

DIFFERENCE  BETWEEN  FUNDAMENTALIST  AND  MODERNIST 

What  is  the  difference  between  a  fundamentalist  and  a  modern- 
ist? If  asked  this  question  I  would  answer  somewhat  as  follows: 
A  fundamentalist  is  one  who  believes  in  the  teachings  and  customs 
of  the  past,  as  they  have  come  down  to  us  by  means  of  the  written 
word  contained  in  sacred  writ,  or  secular  history,  preferring,  where 
the  ideas  and  teachings  of  today  conflict  with  the  past,  and  where- 
definite  evidence  is  lacking  to  establish  one  or  the  other  theory  to 
accept  the  old,  rather  than  the  more  modern  interpretation. 

The  modernist  prefers,  and  accepts,  the  customs,  philosophy 
and  thought  of  the  present  in  preference  to  that  of  the  remote  past. 

The  fact  that  a  person  may  profess  to  be  a  fundamentalist  is 
no  evidence  that  he  is  either  right  or  wrong,  and  the  same  rule  may 
be  applied  to  the  modernist.  Fundamentalism  is  that  upon  which 
a  system  or  structure  is  builded. 

In  the  first  century  after  the  ministry  of  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world  many  conflicting  opinions  prevailed  upon  the  subject  of  re- 
ligion. Numerous  churches  were  established,  each  professing  to  be 
followers  of  ;Christ,  while  differing  greatly  in  creed.  Paganism 
and  idolatry  were  almost  universal  except  among  the  Hebrew 
people,  and  even  among  them  some  were  converted  to  the  various 
systems  which  prevailed. 

In  the  confusion  which  ensued,  Mohammed,  a  descendant  of 
Abraham,  through  his  son,  Ishmael,  seeing  the  danger  which  threat- 
ened, arose  and  declared  that  there  was  but  one  God,  the  God  of  his 
father,  Abraham,  and  called  his  people  away  from  the  worship  of 
idols,  to  the  worship  of  a  living  but  invisible  God.  To  the  present 
day  this  doctrine  remains  the  fundamental  faith  of  Islam. 

Buddha  established  a  great  system  of  religion  on  the  theory 
that  the  spirit  of  man  is  eternal,  that  it  may  come  to  earth  and 
tabernacle  in  the  flesh  at  different  periods  of  probation,  perhaps 
more  than  once  in  the  body  of  a  man,  perhaps  in  the  body  of  an 
animal,  if  the  man  has  proven  to  be  unworthy,  until  in  time  it  may 
go  into  the  presence  of  God,  or  Nirvana.  This  is  funadmental  to 
the  faith  of  the  followers  of  Buddha.  Thus  we  see  that  the  Moham- 
medan and  Budhist,  while  greatly  differing  in  creed,  are  both 
fundamentalists,  but  that  is  no  evidence  that  either  is  right  or 
wrong. 

The  same  may  be  said  in  truth  of  the  modernist.   Looking  back 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


23 


over  the  history  of  the  past  it  is  plain  that  man  cannot  with  safety 
ignore  the  lessons  which  it  teaches,  for  truth,  no  matter  when  re- 
vealed, remains  the  same,  and  that  great  truths  have  been  made 
known  to  man  in  the  remote  past  cannot  be  denied. 

Neither  can  we  ignore  the  truths  which  have  come  to  the  world 
as  a  result  of  scientific  research  in  the  dispensation  in  which  we 
live.  The  sure  anchor,  then,  upon  which  we  are  safe  in  building 
our  structure,  is  demonstrated  truth,  whether  it  be  the  truth  of  the 
remote  past,  or  the  living  present.  Thus  we  become  both  funda- 
mentalists and  modernists,  with  our  feet  firmly  planted  on  solid 
ground. 

WHENCE  CAME  MAN,  AND  WHITHER  GOETH  HE? 

The  question  most  discussed  in  the  present  controversy  is  that 
phase  which  deals  with  the  origin  and  destiny  of  man.  Whence 
came  man,  and  whither  goeth  he? 

Without  reference  to  the  many  theories  which  have  existed 
upon  this  question,  and  which  still  exist,  I  desire  to  refer  briefly  to 
the  one  which  is  today  greatly  disturbing  the  minds  of  the  people. 
Was  man  created  by  the  decree  of  God,  our  Father,  and  placed  upon 
the  earth  in  his  present  form,  or  is  he  the  creature  of  some  natural 
process  of  development,  which  has  in  the  course  of  the  aeons  which 
have  passed  brought  him  to  where  he  is  ? 

.  The  suggestion  of  Darwin,  the  great  scientist,  that  man,  by  a  pro- 
cess of  natural  selection  and  gradual  development,  may  have  evolved 
from  a  lower  order  of  animal  life  to  what  he  now  is,  although  he  did 
not  declare  this  a  fact,  but  only  a  theory,  has  resulted  in  much  discussion, 
and  too  often  in  bitter  controversy. 

Closely  allied  to  the  Darwinian  theory,  but  still  quite  different 
is  the  theory  of  evolution,  which  is  being  so  widely  discussed,  and  I 
sometimes  think  so  generally  misunderstood  today. 

Evolution  is  the  process  of  evolving,  or  becoming  developed. 
An  unfolding  or  growth,  from  a  latent  state,  or  from  a  pre-arranged 
plan. 

WHAT  IS  THE  ATTITUDE  OF  THE   CHURCH  ON  THIS  QUESTION  ? 

Naturally  many,  many  people  are  asking,  "What  is  the  attitude 
of  the  Church  on  this  important  question,  as  it  applies  to  the  ex- 
istence of  man?"    Let  me  answer  briefly. 

The  foundation  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  rests  upon  faith  in  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  and  in  his  Son, 
Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost 

We  believe  that  God  is  an  existent,  living  personality,  and  that 
man  was  created  in  his  image.  "In  the  image  of  God  created  he 
him,  male  and  female  created  he  them." 

We  believe  that  Jesus  Christ  was,  and  is  the  Son  of  God,  the 
Only  Begotten  of  the  Father  in  the  flesh,  immaculately  conceived 
and  born  of  the  Virgin  Mary.  That  through  the  atonement  wrought 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


out  by  him  all  men  are  redeemed  from  the  penalty  of  death,  pro- 
nounced upon  our  father  Adam,  through  the  resurrection  from  the 
grave,  which  he  made  possible,  and  that  by  obedience  to  the  divine 
principles  of  right  living  which  he  taught,  mankind  may  be  re- 
deemed from  personal  sin,  and  brought  back  into  the  presence  of 
the  Father,  to  enjoy  the  fellowship  and  association  of  the  Son. 

We  believe  that  the  Holy  Ghost  is  the  agency  through  which 
the  will  of  the  Father  is  communciated  to  his  children,  here  upon 
earth.  That  it  takes  of  the  things  of  the  Father,  and  manifests  them 
unto  man.  It  bears  record  of  the  Father  and  the  Son,  is  our  comfort 
in  sorrow  and  distress,  our  strength  in  weakness,  and  our  guide 
when  in  doubt.  It  is  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  the  light  which  light- 
eth  everything  that  cometh  into  the  world,  and  with  which  all  men 
are  endowed  in  a  greater  or  less  degree.  It  is  the  spirit  of  knowl- 
edge, by  which  man  became  a  responsible  agent,  knowing  good 
from  evil,  thus  becoming  answerable  for  the  deeds  done  while 
here  in  probation,  an  account  of  which  all  men  must  render  when 
they  stand  before  the  bar  of  God  to  be  judged  according  to  their 
works. 

These  doctrines  are  as  old  as  the  revealed  will  of  the  Lord  to 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth.  It  is,  always  has  been,  and  will  con- 
tinue to  be  the  doctrine  of  the  Church.  From  it  the  Church  has 
never  receded,  it  never  can  recede ;  it  is  fundamental,  and  our  faith 
in  it  makes  us  fundamentalists. 

Unlike  the  sectarian  Christian  denominations  of  the  world,  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  believes  and  teaches, 
that  birth  into  this  life  is  not  the  beginning  of  the  existence  of  man, 
nor  is  death  the  end  of  it,  but  that  the  spirits  of  all  men  existed  in 
a  pre-mortal  state,  before  coming  to  this  earth  to  be  clothed  upon 
with  mortality.  That  after  death  they  return  to  the  spirit  world  to 
await  the  resurrection,  when  they  will  come  forth  from  the  grave, 
with  glorified,  immortal  bodies,  to  receive  the  glory  and  exaltation 
to  which  their  works  while  in  mortality  entitle  them. 

We  believe  that  the  earth  is  constantly  undergoing  changes 
which  will  eventually  restore  it  to  its  paradisiacal  glory,  and  make 
it  a  fit  abode  for  glorified  man. 

We  believe  all  thatGod  has  revealed,  all  that  he  does  now  re- 
veal, and  we  believe  that  he  will  yet  reveal  many  great  and  import- 
ant things  pertaining  to  the  Kingdom  of  God. 

If,  then,  to  have  our  faces  constantly  toward  the  future,  if  to 
be  forward  looking,  forward  moving  men  and  women,  if  to  believe 
that  great  stores  of  knowledge,  hidden  treasures  of  knowledge,  are 
yet  to  be  revealed  by  men  who  have  the  spirit  of  the  pioneer,  which 
impels  them  to  reach  out  into  new  and  unknown  fields  of  endeavor, 
whether  it  be  in  science,  sociology,  or  exploration,  if  this,  I  say,  is 
modernism,  and  if  these  changes  which  have  come,  and  which  are  to 
come  in  the  future,  through  the  exercise  of  the  intelligence  of  man, 
which  is  the  intelligence  of  God,  and  which  is  based  upon  demon- 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


25 


strated  truth,  and  not  theory,  is  evolution,  then  are  we  evolutionists. 

If,  however,  to  be  in  harmony  with  modern  thought  we  must 
renounce  our  faith  in  a  living,  personal  God,  the  Creator  of  heaven 
and  earth,  not  only  the  earth  upon  which  we  dwell,  but  the  universe 
of  which  we  form  so  small  a  part,  that  he  holds  dominion  over  it, 
shapes  the  destiny  of  its  inhabitants,  and  controls  the  laws  by  which 
it  is  governed ;  if  we  are  to  deny  the  knowledge  which  has  come  to 
us  by  direct  revelation  from  heaven  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  only 
begotten  of  the  Father ;  if  we  are  to  deny  the  truth  which  has  been 
revealed  which  teaches  that  man  was  created  in  the  image  of  God, 
was  so  in  the  beginning  and  will  always  remain  so,  while  he  goes 
on  in  intelligent  development  forever;  if  to  be  in  harmony  we  are 
to  renounce  a  single  doctrine  of  revealed  truth  which  has  come  to 
us,  we  unhesitatingly  separate  ourselves  from  modern  thought  and 
theory,  and  confidently  await  the  time  when  revealed  truth,  whether 
it  be  the  result  of  scientific  research  or  the  revealed  word  of  the 
Lord,  will  vindicate  our  faith  in  his  word,  which  through  his  mercy 
has  come  to  us  in  this,  the  greatest  of  all  dispensations  of  the 
world's  history. 

The  earth  and  all  that  is  upon  it,  the  sea  and  all  that  is  in  it 
did  not  come  into  existence  by  chance.  Man  is  not  the  accidental 
product  of  chance.  We  admit  the  changes  which  have  come,  and 
believe  that  others  of  mighty  import  are  before  us,  but  in  it  all  the 
Church  sees  not  a  thing  of  chance,  but  a  definite  plan,  being  shaped 
and  moulded  by  a  master  mind,  for  the  accomplishment  of  a  divine 
purpose. 

THE  REVEALED  WORD  OF  GOD  TO  US  CONCLUSIVE  PROOF 

Time  will  not  permit  a  presentation  of  the  many  evidences 
which  exist  in  support  of  this  doctrine  of  the  pre-existence  and 
future  destiny  of  man.  I  ask  your  indulgence,  however,  while  I 
refer  to  a  few  of  the  outstanding  facts  in  relation  to  it. 

The  life,  ministry  and  teachings  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  World 
are  sufficient,  alone,  definitely  to  settle  the  existing  controversy. 
We  know  that  there  are  those  who  do  not  regard  the  written  word, 
as  it  is  contained  in  the  scripture  as  satisfactory  proof,  but  to  us  it 
should  be  conclusive. 

We  concede  to  all  men  the  right  to  believe  as  they  choose,  but 
to  members  of  the  Church  we  appeal  to  remain  steadfast  in  their 
faith  in  the  revealed  word  of  the  Lord. 

There  is  one  thing  which  characterizes  his  word  which  has  al- 
ways appealed  to  me.  It  never  comes  to  us  as  an  hypothesis,  but 
always  as  a  definite  fact.  In  the  beginning  God  created  the  heaven 
and  the  earth.  And  God  said  let  us  make  man  in  our  image,  after 
our  likeness.  So  God  created  man  in  his  own  image,  in  the  image 
of  God  created  he  him,  male  and  female  created  he  them. 

There  is  nothing  hypothetical  in  this,  nothing  which  admits 
of  various  interpretations,  if  we  are  to  define  words  in  their  real 
meaning.   It  is  a  definite  abstract  statement  of  fact.    The  exact 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


process  by  which  this  was  accomplished  we  do  not  know,  nor  is  it 
essential  that  we  know  it,  the  fact  is  sufficient,  and  it  will  never  be 
disproved  by  scientific  research  or  otherwise,  because  it  is  the  truth. 

THE  PRE-EXISTENCE  OF   JESUS    CHRIST   THE  LOGICAL  OUTCOME 

That  Christ  lived  in  mortality  is  admitted  by  all  people  who 
are  familiar  with  the  history  of  his  time,  whether  they  are  be- 
lievers or  not.  That  he  was  condemned  and  cruicifed  on  Calvary 
is  not  denied,  and  that  after  his  crucifixion  and  resurrection  from 
the  dead  he  appeared  to  his  disciples,  and  to  many  of  the  Saints 
with  his  glorified  body  is  testified  to  by  those  who  saw  and  com- 
muned with  him. 

Christ  frequently  declared  that  he  was  with  the  Father  before 
he  came  to  earth,  and  took  upon  him  mortality,  and  that  he  re- 
turned to  the  Father  after  his  work  among  men  had  been  accom- 
plished. That  he  revealed  himself  to  the  people  of  the  world  be- 
fore his  earthly  existence,  is  plainly  declared  in  the  scripture,  as  the 
following  will  show. 

Soon  after  the  confusion  of  tongues,  at  the  time  of  the  building 
of  the  Tower  of  Babel,  Jared,  a  prophet  of  the  Lord,  led  a  colony 
of  people  from  the  old  world  to  the  new.  The  brother  of  this  man 
Jared  had  gone  out  to  plead  with  the  Lord  in  behalf  of  his  people, 
when  the  word  of  the  Lord  came  to  him,  as  follows : 

"Believest  thou  the  words  which  I  shall  speak?  And  he  answered: 
Yea,  Lord,  I  know  that  thou  speakest  the  truth,  for  thou  art  a  God  of 
truth,  and  canst  not  lie. 

"And  when  he  had  said  these  words,  behold,  the  Lord  showed  himself 
unto  him,  and  said:  Because  thou  knowest  these  things  ye  are  redeemed 
from  the  fall;  therefore  ye  are  brought  back  into  my  presence:  Therefore 
I  show  myself  unto  you. 

"Behold,  I  am  he  who  was  prepared  from  the  foundation  of  the  world 
te  redeem  my  people.  Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ.  In  me  shall  all  mankind 
have  light,  and  that  eternally,  even  they  who  shall  believe  on  my  name;  and 
they  shall  become  my  sons  and  daughters.  Seest  thou  that  ye  are  created 
after  my  own  image?  Yea,  even  all  men  were  created  in  the  beginning 
after  mine  own  image.  Behold,  this  body  which  ye  now  see  is  the  body  of 
my  spirit;  and  man  have  I  created  after  the  body  of  my  spirit;  and  even  as 
I  appear  to  thee  to  be  in  the  spirit,  will  I  appear  unto  men  in  the  fle'sh." 

At  a  later  date  Samuel,  a  Lamanite,  prophesied  to  the  Nephites 
that  Christ  would  be  born  at  a  certain  date,  and  would  appear  to  the 
people  of  this  continent,  and  that  he  was  the  Redeemer  of  the 
World.  Unbelievers,  as  has  always  been  the  case,  were  bitterly 
opposed  to  this  doctrine,  and  declaring  that  the  date  fixed  by  Sam- 
uel had  passed,  set  a  day  when  all  who  professed  faith  in  his  teach- 
ings should  be  put  to  death.  In  this  crisis  Nephi  cried  unto  the 
Lord  in  behalf  of  those  who  were  believers,  with  the  following  re- 
sult : 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  he  cried  mightily  unto  the  Lord,  and  behold 
the  voice  of  the  Lord  came  unto  him  saying: 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS 


27 


"Lift  up  your  head  and  be  of  good  cheer;  for,  behold,  the  time  is  at 
hand,  and  on  this  night  shall  the  sign  be  given,  and  on  the  morrow  come 
I  into  the  world,  to  show  unto  the  world;  that  I  will  fulfil  all  that  which 
I  have  caused  to  be  spoken  by  the  mouth  of  my  holy  prophets. 

"Behold,  I  come  unto  my  own,  to  fulfil  all  things  which  I  have  made 
known  unto  the  children  of  men  from  the  foundation  of  the  world,  and  to 
do  the  will  both  of  the  Father  and  the  Son.  And  behold  the  time  is  at 
hand,  and  this  night  shall  the  sign  be  given." 

It  was  the  voice  of  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  pro- 
claiming to  man  in  mortality  his  coming  and  the  following  day  the 
babe  of  Bethlehem  was  born. 

What  evidence,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  do  we  require  more 
conclusive  than  this,  of  the  ante-mortal  existence  of  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world? 

MAN  ALONE  ENDOWED  WITH  REASON 

Of  all  created  things  man  alone  is  endowed  with  reason,  which 
is  the  glory  and  intelligence  of  God.  Of  man  alone  the  Creator  has 
said :  The  man  has  become  as  one  of  us,  knowing  good  and  evil. 

BY  REASON'S  EXERCISE  MAN  GOES  FORWARD 

It  is  by  the  exercise  and  application  of  this  endowment  that 
man  goes  forward,  and  will  continue  to  go  forward,  forever.  By 
the  application  of  the  intelligence  of  man,  which  is  the  intelligence 
of  God,  conditions  are  changed,  and  may  become  either  better  or 
worse.  Remove  the  application  of  this  intelligence  and  we  have 
no  knowledge  of  anything  in  nature  which  has  gone  forward,  but 
we  do  know  that  the  highest  degree  of  perfection  reached  by  man 
in  development,  when  bereft  of  it,  may  rapidly  retrograde,  whether 
it  applies  to  things  of  nature,  individuals,  communities  or  nations, 
and  even  where  the  intelligence  of  man  has  been  applied  to  its  full- 
est extent,  but  without  the  sure  word  of  prophecy,  without  the  sup- 
porting power  of  the  Creator,  our  Father  and  God,  chaos  has  re- 
sulted and  it  will  continue  to  result,  for  it  is  the  eternal  decree  of 
God  that  man  whom  he  has  placed  here  upon  earth,  shall  recognize 
him,  otherwise  he  cannot  go  on  in  eternal  progression. 

"in  the  beginning,  god" 

My  knowledge  of  geology,  which  is  limited,  was  obtained 
through  study  of  that  subject  from  books  written  by  J.  Dorman 
Steele  whose  works  on  science  were  probably  more  generally  used 
in  my  school  days  than  any  other.  In  conclusion  I  wish  to  read 
briefly  from  his  Fourteen  Weeks  in  Geology,  the  following : 

"We  have  traced  in  the  dim  light  of  the  past  the  history  of  our  earth 
and  its  inhabitants.  Everywhere  we  have  found  a  divine  hand  shaping  and 
moulding  to  accomplish  a  divine  ideal.  Was  man  created  by  God's  fiat,  or 
by  some  intermediate  process  of  secondary  causes?  Alas  for  the  impotence 
of  science,  and  the  scope  of  our  finite  intelligence.  Primeval  man  shows 
no  sign  of  development  from  the  higher  tribes  of  animals.  No  fossil  yet 
found  is  a  link  between  him  and  the  monkey.  -No  ape  ever  made  any  im- 
provement on  the  condition  in-  which  he  was  born.    Man,  on  the  other 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


hand  never  stays  where  he  starts,  he  continually  progresses.  In  the  be- 
ginning God.  We  can  add  nothing  to  the  old  Hebrew  declaration.  The 
study  of  science  ought  never  to  lead  one  estray  from  this  great  fundamental 
thought.  God  has  assuredly  never  written  anything  in  nature  contradictory 
of  himself.  Science  and  religion  are  alike  his  offspring,  both  will  ultimately 
vindicate  him  and  his  attributes.  Forgetting  then  the  rancor  and  bitterness 
of  the  past  in  the  joy  of  newly  found  truth,  they  will  clasp  hand  and  to- 
gether cast  the  crowns  of  their  triumphs,  the  triumphs  of  science  and 
Christianity,  at  the  feet  of  their  common  author,  and  God  will  be  pro- 
claimed Lord  of  all." 

LISTEN  TO  THE  WORD  OF  GOD.     NO  TRUTH1  WILL  CONTRADICT  IT 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  may  these  fundamental  truths  remain 
fixed  in  your  minds,  let  nothing  lead  you  away  from  them.  Listen 
to  the  word  of  prophecy,  as  it  comes  to  you  through  these  men  who 
sit  before  you  this  afternoon  and  I  promise  that  you  will  never  be 
led  astray.  No  development  of  science  will  ever  contradict  the 
revealed  word  of  the  Lord,  which  has  come  to  us.  For  the  moment 
theories  may  appear  to  be  in  conflict  with  his  revealed  word,  but 
demonstrated  truth  will  always  be  in  harmony  with  it,  for  he  is  the 
author  of  all  truth. 

That  his  blessing  may  continue  with  us,  and  his  protecting  arm 
be  over  us,  I  humbly  pray,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  sacred  solo :  "How  beautiful  upon  the  mountains,"  was  sung 
by  Louise  Watson. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  believe  I  fully  sense  the  importance  of  this  occasion  and  the 
value  of  the  time  that  is  passing  for  this  great  congregation.  Of 
myself  I  have  little  to  say,  except  to  announce  my  belief  in  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  During  the  two  sessions  of  this  conference 
my  soul  has  been  enriched  by  the  truths  that  have  been  announced 
by  those  who  have  addressed  us,  and  the  music  that  seems  almost 
divine.  I  have  had  the  privilege  of  grasping  the  hands  of  dozens  of 
my  brethren  and  sisters  who  live  in  remote  places,  and  who  have 
left  their  homes  and  their  own  affairs,  and  have  paid  their  expenses 
to  come  here  to  meet  in  this  great  conference.  I  am  sure  that  when 
it  is  concluded  the  feeling  will  abound  in  the  heart  of  each — 
that  it  has  been  well  worth  while. 

AN  IMPORTANT  SUBJECT 

President  Ivins  touched  upon  a  subject,  and  I  regret  that  he 
did  not  take  more  time  to  enlarge  upon  it,  as  I  know  he  is  capable 
of  doing,  to  our  blessing.  He  reminded  me  of  a  statement  made 
only  a  short  time  ago  with  reference  to  what  has  been  going  on  in 
Tennessee,  where  some  of  the  brightest  minds  of  this  world  were 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


29 


in  conflict — those  who  adhere  to  the  plain  teachings'  of  the  Old- 
Testament  and  the  New,  and  those  who  accept  none  of  these 
teachings  as  divine.  During  the  catechisation  of  an  important  wit- 
ness reference  was  made  to  the  first  two  chapters  of  Genesis,  where- 
in it  is  stated  that  the  heavens  and  the  earth  were  created.  And 
each  day  something  was  accomplished  until  the  seventh  day.  After 
discovering  by  reading  the  same  that  all  the  various  animals  and 
the  shrubs  and  vegetation  had  been  created,  the  witness  was  asked : 
"Do  you  believe  this?"  And  he  announced  that  he  did.  Then  he 
was  asked :  "What  then  is  meant  by  this,  and  do  you  believe  it : 
'And  on  the  seventh  day  God  ended  his  work  which  he  had  made ; 
and  he  rested  on  the  seventh  day  from  all  his  work  which  he  had 
made'"? 

'And  God  blessed  the  seventh  day,  and  sanctified  it :  because 
that  in  it  he  had  rested  from  all  his  work  which  God  created  and 
made.'  "   And  then  he  read  this : 

"These  are  the  generations  of  the  heavens  and  of  the  earth  when  they 
were  created,  in  the  day  that  the  Lord  God  made  the  earth  and  the  heavens, 

"And  every  plant  of  the  field  before  it  was  in  the  earth,  and  every  herb 
of  the  field  before  it  grew;  for  the  Lord  God  had  not  caused  it  to  rain  upon 
the  earth,  and  there  was  not  a  man  to  till  the  ground." 

He  said :  "What  does  this  mean?  and  do  you  believe  it?  Here 
we  have  the  heavens  and  the  earth,  and  man  created  in  the  image 
of  God,  male  and  female,  and  after  the  seventh  day  we  find — after 
the  completion  of  it — the  statement  that  there  was  not  rain  upon 
the  earth  and  there  was  not  man  to  till  the  ground. 

"But  there  went  up  a  mist  from  the  earth,  and  watered  the  whole  face 
of  the  ground. 

"And  the  Lord  God  formed  man  of  the  dust  of  the  ground,  and  breathed 
into  his  nostrils  the  breath  of  life;  and  man  became  a  living  soul." 

The  witness  could  not  explain,  but  he  affirmed  his  profound 
belief  in  the  statement  contained  therein. 

TWO  CREATIONS  REFERRED  TO 

Now  to  this  vast  audience  I  could  ask  that  question  without 
hesitation,  with  the  assurance  that  most  of  you  would  say,  Why, 
there  were  two  creations  referred  to.  In  the  first  place  God  created 
all  these  things.  He  formed  the  earth  that  was  without  form  and 
void.  He  caused  light  to  appear,  he  caused  the  waters  to  take  their 
place,  and  the  dry  land  to  appear.  He  created  spiritually, 
everything  that  dwells  upon  the  earth;  and  after  he  had 
done  that,  the  statement  is  made  that  there  was  not  yet  man  to  till 
the  earth.  Man  in  his  spiritual  condition  was  not  prepared  to  till 
the  earth,  and  so  God  formed  his  body  for  him.  He  prepared  his 
physical  being,  and  then  the  spirit  that  had  been  prepared  before 
was  placed  in  that  body  and  he  became  a  living  soul.  It  seems  to 
me  that  a  splendid  opportunity  was  lost  to  say  to  all  the  world,  read 
the  first  and  second  chapters  of  Genesis  carefully,  and,  to  a  very 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


large  degree  it  will  settle  any  doubt  that  may  be  in  your  mind  as 
to  the  possibility  of  the  various  forms  of  life  gravitating  from  one  to 
the  other,  because  we  are  told,  "every  tree  and  every  seed  bearing 
fruit  after  its  kind." 

THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  HAVE  ANOTHER  WITNESS 

And  then  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  another  witness,  and  I 
am  minded  to  read  to  you,  just  briefly,  the  testimony  of  something 
that  the  world  has  not  yet  received,  but  which,  to  my  mind,  is  the 
truth  as  contained  upon  papyrus,  and  I  will  read  the  heading  of 
this : 

"A  translation  of  some  ancient  records,  that  have  fallen  into 
our  hands,  from  the  catacombs  of  Egypt ;  the  writings  of  Abraham 
while  he  was  in  Egypt,  called  the  Book  of  Abraham,  written  by  his 
own  hand,  upon  papyrus."  The  Latter-day  Saints  accept  the  state- 
ment at  face  value,  as  contained  in  the  first  and  second  chapters 
of  Genesis.  Yea,  we  believe  the  Bible,  all  the  Bible,  to  be  the  word 
of  God,  as  far  as  it  is  translated  correctly,  and  in  addition  we  find 
in  this  translation  that  has  been  given  to  us  from  papyrus,  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  this  statement  by  Abraham : 

PRE-EXISTENT  SPIRITS 

"Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto  me,  Abraham,  the  intelligences  that 
were  organized  before  the  world  was;  and  among  all  these  there  were  many 
of  the  noble  and  great  ones; 

"And  God  saw  these  souls  that  they  were  good,  and  he  stood  in  the 
midst  of  them,  and  he  said:  These  I  will  make  my  rulers;  for  he  stood 
among  those  that  were  spirits," 

Let  us  keep  that  in  mind:  "For  he  stood  among  those  that  were 
spirits." 

Not  the  physical  tabernacles  that  we  now  possess. 

"And  he  saw  that  they  were  good;  and  he  said  unto  me:  Abraham, 
thou  art  one  of  them;  thou  wast  chosen  before  thou  wast  born. 

"And  there  stood  one  among  them  that  was  like  unto  God,  and  he  said 
unto  those  who  were  with  him:  We  will  go  down,  for  there  is  space  there, 
and  we  will  take  of  these  materials,  and  we  will  make  an  earth  whereon 
these  may  dwell; 

"And  we  will  prove  them  herewith,  to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things 
whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God  shall  command  them; 

"And  they  who  keep  their  first  estate  shall  be  added  upon;  and  they 
who  keep  not  their  first  estate  shall  not  have  glory  in  the  same  kingdom 
with  those  who  keep  their  first  estate;  and  they  who  keep  their  second 
estate  shall  have  glory  added  upon  their  heads  for  ever  and  ever. 

"And  the  Lord  said:  Whom  shall  I  send?  And  one  answered  like 
unto  the  Son  of  Man:  Here  am  I,  send  me.  And  another  answered  and 
said:    Here  am  I,  send  me.   And  the  Lord  said:    I  will  send  the  first. 

"And  the  second  was  angry,  and  kept  not  his  first  estate,  and,  at  that 
day,  many  followed  after  him." 

Of  course  there  is  a  great  similarity  between  this  and  the  Old 
Testament. 

THE  CREATION  OF  LIGHT 
"Then  the  Lord  said:    Let  us  go  down.    And  they  went  down  at  the 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


31 


beginning,  and  they,  that  is  the  Gods,  organized  and  formed  the  heavens 
and  the  earth. 

"And  the  earth,  after  it  was  formed,  was  empty  and  desolate,  because 
they  had  not  formed  anything  but  the  earth;  and  darkness  reigned  upon 
the  face  of  the  deep,  and  the  Spirit  of  the  Gods  was  brooding  upon  the  face 
of  the  waters. 

"And  they  (the  Gods)  said:    Let  there  be  light;  and  there  was  light. 
"And  they  (the  Gods)  comprehended  the  light,  for  it  was  bright;  and 
they  divided  the  light,  or  caused  it  to  be  divided,  from  the  darkness. 

THE  CREATIVE  PERIODS 

Then  I  will  skip  several  passages: 

"And  the  Gods  called  the  expanse,  Heaven.  And  it  came  to  pass  that  it 
was  from  evening  until  morning  that  they  called  night;  and  it  came  to  pass 
that  it  was  from  morning  until  evening  that  they  called  day;  and  this  was 
the  second  time  that  they  called  night  and  day." 

Note  the  phraseology.  Whether  it  was  a  period  of  twenty-four 
hours  or  whether  it  was  a  period  of  hundreds  of  years  was  not  ex- 
plained, but  it  was  a  period  of  time.  And  this  record  that  is  given 
as  the  words  of  Abraham,  having  been  revealed  to  him  by  his 
heavenly  Father,  specifies  it  as  a  time.  And  so  after  each  creation 
it  is  referred  to  as  a  first  time,  a  second  time,  a  third  time,  and 
so  on. 

"And  the  Gods  ordered,  saying:  Let  the  waters  under  the  heaven  be 
gathered  together  unto  one  place,  and  let  the  earth  come  up  dry;  and  it  was 
so  as  they  ordered; 

"And  the  Gods  pronounced  the  dry  land,  earth;  and  the  gathering  to- 
gether of  the  waters,  pronounced  they,  great  waters;  and  the  Cods  saw  that 
they  were  obeyed. 

"And  the  Gods  said:    Let  us  prepare  the  earth  to  bring  forth  grass." 

THE  EARTH  PREPARED  TO  BRING  FORTH  GRASS 

Mind  you,  they  were  to  prepare  the  earth  to  bring  forth  grass. 

"The  herb  yielding  seed;  the  fruit  tree  yielding  fruit,  after  his  kind, 
whose  seed  in  itself  yieldeth  its  own  likeness  upon  the  earth;  and  it  was  so, 
even  as  they  ordered. 

"And  the  Gods  organized  the  earth  to  bring  forth  grass  from  its  own 
seed,  and  the  herb  to  bring  forth  herb  from  its  own  seed,  yielding  seed  after 
his  kind;  and  the  earth  to  bring  forth  the  tree  from  its  own  seed,  yielding 
fruit,  whose  seed  could  only  bring  forth  the  same  in  itself,  after  his  kind; 
and  the  Gods  saw  that  they  were  obeyed. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  they  numbered  the  days;  from  the  evening 
until  the  morning  they  called  night;  and  it  came  to  pass,  from  the  morning 
until  the  evening  they  called  day;  and  it  was  the  third  time." 

THE  ORIGIN  OF  SPECIES 

We  will  now  pass  over  a  few  paragraphs,  telling  of  the  prepara- 
tion for  bringing  forth  whales,  winged  fowl,  creeping  things,  etc., 
then  we  read : 

"And  the  Gods  prepared  the  earth  to  bring  forth  the  living  creature 
after  his  kind,  cattle  and  creeping  things,  and  beasts  of  the  earth  after  their 
kind;  and  it  was  so,  as  they  had  said. 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"And  the  Gods  organized  the  earth  to  bring  forth  the  beasts  after  their 
kind,  and  cattle  after  their  kind,  and  every  thing  that  creepeth  upon  the 
earth  after  its  kind;  and  the  Gods  saw  they  would  obey. 

"And  the  Gods  took  counsel  among  themselves  and  said:  Let  us  go 
down  and  form  man  in  our  image,  after  our  likeness;  and  we  will  give  them 
dominion  over  the  fish  of  the  sea,  and  over  the  fowl  of  the  air,  and  over  the 
cattle,  and  over  all  the  earth,  and  over  every  creeping  thing  that  creepeth 
upon  the  earth. 

"So  the  Gods  went  down  to  organize  man  in  their  own  image,  in  the 
image  of  the  Gods  to  form  they  him,  male  and  female  to  form  they  them. 

"And  the  Gods  said:  We  will  bless  them.  And  the  Gods  said:  We  will 
cause  them  to  be  fruitful,  and  multiply,  and  replenish  the  earth,  and  subdue 
't,  and  to  have  dominion  over  the  fish  of  the  sea,  and  over  the  fowl  of  the 
air,  and  over  every  living  thing  that  moveth  upon  the  earth. 

"And  the  Gods  said:  Behold,  we.  will  give  them  every  herb  bearing 
seed  that  shall  come  upon  the  face  of  all  the  earth,  and  every  tree  which 
shall  have  fruit  upon  it;  yea,  the  fruit  of  the  tree  yielding  seed  to  them  we 
will  give  it;  it  shall  be  for  their  meat." 

Again  I  will  pass  over  a  few  passages : 

"And  the  Gods  came  down  and  formed  these  the  generations  of  the 
heavens  and  of  the  earth,  when  they  were  formed  in  the  day  that  the  Gods 
formed  the  earth  and  the  heavens, 

"According  to  all  that  which  they  had  said  concerning  every  plant  of 
the  field  before  it  was  in  the  earth,  and  every  herb  of  the  field  before  it 
grew;  for  the  Gods  had  not  caused  it  to  rain  upon  the  earth  when  they 
counseled  to  do  them,  and  had  not  formed  a  man  to  till  the  ground. 

"But  there  went  up  a  mist  from  the  earth,  and  watered  the  whole  face 
of  the  ground. 

"And  the  Gods  formed  man  from  the  dust  of  the  ground,  and  took  his 
spirit  (that  is,  the  man's  spirit),  and  put  it  into  him;  and  breathed  into  his 
nostrils  the  breath  of  life,  and  man  became  a  living  soul. 

"And  the  Gods  planted  a  garden,  eastward  in  Eden,  and  there  they  put 
the  man,  whose  spirit  they  had  put  into  the  body  which  they  had  formed." 

That  is  another  testimony  to  me  of  the  origin  of  the  species. 
It  is  to  me  the  simplest  explanation  of  the  preparation  of  this  earth 
for  the  habitation  of  animal  and  vegetable  life  that  has  ever  been 
prepared.  It  has  been  my  privilege  to  read  the  theories  and  to 
listen  to  the  solutions  of  this  problem  by  some  of  the  wisest  men 
of  the  world,  but  wherein  they  have  differed  from  this  plain  state- 
ment of  facts,  as  revealed  by  our  Father  in  heaven  to  his  servants, 
who  were  his  mouthpieces  to  the  children  of  men,  the  arguments 
of  my  Father's  sons,  my  brethren  if  you  will,  whom  I  love,  every 
•  one  of  them  has  been  feeble  indeed,  to  bear  to  my  mind  a  compre- 
hension of  the  origin  of  man. 

THE  TESTIMONY  OF  MODERN  REVELATION 

Then  we  come  again  to  the  story  contained  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  which  adds  also  to  the  testimony  we  have  of  where  we 
came  from.  Then  we  have  the  testimony  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  in  our  day,  who  has  supplemented  these  things  by  revela- 
tions, that  to  me  are  beautiful  explanations  of  the  purposes  of  God 
toward  his  children,  and  his  preparation  of  their  peace  and  happi- 
ness throughout  the  ages  of  eternity. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


33 


A  SURE  KNOWLEDGE  OF  THE  ORIGIN  OF  MAN 

I  am  grateful  that  in  the  midst  of  the  confusion  of  our  Father's 
children  there  has  been  given  to  the  members  of  this  great  organ- 
ization a  sure  knowledge  of  the  origin  of  man,  that  we  came  from 
the  spirit  world  where  our  spirits  were  begotten  by  our  Father  in 
heaven,  that  he  formed  our  first  parents  from  the  dust  of  the  earth, 
and  that  their  spirits  were  placed  in  their  bodies,  and  that  man 
came,  not  as  some  have  believed,  not  as  some  have  preferred  to  be- 
lieve, from  some  of  the  lower  walks  of  life,  but  our  ancestors  were 
those  beings  who  lived  in  the  courts  of  heaven.  We  came  not  from 
some  menial  order  of  life,  but  our  ancestor  is  God  our  heavenly- 
Father.  I  am  grateful  that  we  are  not  laboring  under  a  handicap 
such  as  I  feel  that  some  men  are  who  feel  that  they  have  grown  up 
and  evolved  from  some  unknown  condition ;  but,  on  the  contrary, 
standing  as  we  do,  facing  the  problems  of  life,  believing  as  we  do 
that  we  were  first  created  in  the  image  of  God,  that  he  is  the 
Father  of  our  spirits,  and  that  he  created  this  earth  for  us  that  we 
might  dwell  hereon,  under  his  wise  counsel  and  direction,  we  may 
be  happy,  to  rejoice  in  life  and  to  prepare  ourselves  to  go  back  into 
his  presence,  to  live  forever,  when  our  life  here  upon  this  earth  has 
been  terminated. 

NO  DOUBT  ABOUT  OUR  ANCESTRY 

These  are  some  of  the  things  that  have  come  into  my  mind 
during  this  conference,  and  -I  stand  here,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
again  to  say  to  you :  grateful  am  I  that  there  is  no  doubt  in  my  mind 
as  to  our  ancestry,  and  I  believe,  as  I  believe  that  I  live,  that  if  we 
will  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  as  they  have  been  handed 
down  to  us  through  his  prophets  from  age  to  age,  if  we  will  avail 
ourselves  of  this  glorious  truth  as  it  has  been  promulgated  among 
the  children  of  men,  our  lives  upon  this  earth  will  be  filled  with  joy 
and  satisfaction  and  assurance,  and  in  the  end  there  will  come  to  us 
the  joy  of  eternal  life  and  eternal  companionship  with  those  we 
love  throughout  the  ages  of  eternity. 

OUR  MISSION 

This  is  a  part  of  your  mission,  ye  men  of  Israel,  to  evidence  by 
your  lives,  to  teach  by  word  of  mouth,  this  truth,  as  also  the  other 
truths  that  are  essential  for  men  and  women  to  dwell  in  the  celes- 
tial kingdom  of  our  heavenly  Father.  Gathered  together  as  we  are 
today  under  the  roof  of  this  building  that  has  been  dedicated  to 
the  worship  of  the  Lord  our  God,  how  grateful  we  ought  to  be  that 
there  has  been  removed  from  us  the  doubt  that  exists  in  the  minds 
of  so  many  of  our  Father's  splendid  sons  and  daughters,  that  there 
has  come  to  us  that  abiding  assurance  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  that  he  is  our  elder  brother,  and  that  if  we  are  faithful, 
in  his  own  due  time  he  will  cleanse  and  purify  this  earth  on  which 
we  dwell,  and  it  will  be  celestialized,  and  those  who  have  prepared 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


themselves  for  the  celestial  kingdom  will  have  the  joy  of  dwelling 
hereon,  to  be  directed,  to  be  counseled,  to  be  taught,  and  advised  by 
the  Lord  of  lords  and  King  of  kings,  throughout  the  ages  of  eter- 
nity. What  a  wonderful  promise,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  has  been 
given  to  the  children  of  men,  and  oh,  how  I  pray  that  there  may 
come  into  the  souls  of  the  thousands  and  millions  of  God's  children 
a  knowledge  of  the  purpose  of  their  being,  that  they  may  prepare, 
while  there  is  yet  time  before  their  final  summons,  for  the  time  when  we 
will  be  classified  and  placed  in  whatever  kingdom  ;we  have  earned  the 
right  to  dwell  in,  when  we  go  to  the  other  side. 

That  the  Lord  may  add  his  blessings,  that  the  joy  that  comes 
from  knowing  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  may  spread  throughout  the 
earth,  that  the  truth  that  is  necessary  for  the  salvation  of  men  may 
be  disseminated  by  those  bearing  divine  authority,  that  by  and  by 
when  our  Father  shall  gather  his  jewels,  when  the  Lamb's  book  of 
life  shall  be  opened  that  we,  with  those  we  love  and  all  our  Father's 
children  wherever  they  may  be,  may  be  found  enrolled  there  is  my 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

My  dear  Brethren  and  Sisters :  In  using  this  form  of  address 
I  do  so  not  without  thought  or  feeling,  for  to  me  the  Latter-day 
Saints  are  dear.  I  love  the  faithful  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  sympathize  with  and  pity  those 
who  are  not  faithful. 

I  am  glad  to  be  associated  with  you  in  conference,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  as  a  member  of  the  Church  I  am  glad  to  share 
with  you  whatever  of  ignominy  may  rest  upon  us  as  a  people  be- 
cause of  our  religion,  and  being  unpopular  with  the  world.  I  am 
not  ashamed  of  the  gospel  of  Christ,  for  I  know  that  it  is  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation  to  all  those  who  will  faithfully  obey  the 
same. 

THE  SAINTS  HAVE  THE  COURAGE  OF  THEIR  CONVICTIONS 

There  are,  without  doubt,  people  listening  in  on  their  radio 
sets  to  the  proceedings  of  this  conference,  who  would  be  ashamed 
perhaps  to  be  seen  in  our  midst  worshiping  with  us,  and  yet  they 
have  an  inward  conviction  that  we  are  right  in  our  worship,  and 
that  this  is  indeed  the  true  gospel  of  the  Master.  The  Latter-day 
Saints  are  not  of  that  character,  they  have  not  only  a  firm  convic- 
tion but  a  true  and  abiding  testimony  of  the  truth,  and  they  have 
the  courage  of  their  convictions. 

I  have  no  doubt  that  there  are  many  others  listening  in  who 
are  interested  in  the  doctrines  which  we  teach,  but  who,  because 
of  what  it  would  cost  to  be  a  consistent  member  of  this  Church, 
are  manifesting  no  interest  among  us.  The  Latter-day  Saints  are 
not  of  that  class,  either — they  have  embraced  the  Gospel  as  the 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


35 


straight  gate  and  the  narrow  way  that  leadeth  to  everlasting  life. 
They  have  accepted  it  as  a  gospel  of  sacrifice  and  self  abnegation 
from  beginning  to  end,  and  they  realize  that  in  order  to  be  worthy 
disciples  of  the  Master  they  must  be  willing  to  give  of  their  sub- 
stance in  any  amount  that  may  be  required,  even  to  all  that  they 
possess  if  necessary,  for  the  building  up  of  the  kingdom  of  God  on 
the  earth  and  the  establishment  of  his  kingdom.  They  understand 
that  they  must  have  it  in  their  hearts  to  lay  down  their  lives  for 
the  truth,  if  need  be,  and  that  none  who  is  not  thus  willing  is  ap- 
proved of  the  Lord.  There  are,  of  course,  individuals  among  us 
who  become  lukewarm  and  indifferent.  This  fact  we  greatly  regret 
and  we  are  striving  to  bring  all  to  a  unity  of  the  faith  and  to  faith- 
fulness in  serving  the  Lord. 

THE  DANGER  OF  LOSING  SALVATION 

There  are  various  causes  that  keep  men  and  women  outside  the 
Church,  who  have  investigated  far  enough  to  be  assured  that  we 
teach  the  true  scriptural  doctrine.  I  would  that  they  had  the  cour- 
age of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  feel  that  all  such  are  in  serious 
danger,  their  salvation  is  in  jeopardy.  Jesus  Christ,  the  Savior  and 
Redeemer  of  mankind  is  also  Mediator  with  the  Father  for  us,  and 
he  has  said  that  if  we  are  ashamed  of  him,  he  will  be  ashamed  of 
us  before  the  Father.  Men  and  women  who  are  ashamed  of  the 
work  of  God  and  the  followers  of  Jesus  Christ  I  fear,  will  be  re- 
garded by  Him  as  being  of  this  class. 

THE  STANDARD  OF  WORTHINESS 

I  rejoice  in  my  association  with  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  be- 
lieve that  I  love  God,  I  hope  and  pray  that  I  do,  so  as  to  meet  every 
requirement  that  he  has  made  upon  me.  I  hope  and  pray  con- 
stantly that  my  faith  and  testimony  in  the  life,  the  existence  and 
the  mission  of  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Savior  of  the  world  may  not  be 
wanting.  As  often  as  I  partake  of  the  sacrament  as  emblems  of 
his  body  and  blood,  I  ask  myself  the  question,  "Am  I  ready,  am  I 
willing,  if  it  should  be  required  at  my  hands,  to  give  my  life  for 
him  and  for  this  cause?"  And  if  I  am  not  thus  ready  and  willing 
I  have  yet  much  to  learn  and  to  do,  for  I  must  reach  that  standard 
if  I  would  be  accounted  worthy  of  an  exaltation  with  him  in  our 
Father's  kingdom.  If  I  did  not  love  the  Latter-day  Saints  I  should 
consider  myself  unworthy  of  the  position  which  I  occupy.  I  ought 
to  so  love  this  people  that  I  would  rejoice  with  them  in  their  suc- 
cesses and  sorrow  with. them  in  their  misfortunes.  I  think  that  is 
a  good  standard  for  all  of  us.  If  I  do  not  love  my  brother,  I  fear 
my  love  of  God  and  of  Christ  as  the  Savior  and  Redeemer  of  the 
world  is  wanting,  and  I  do  know  that  salvation  is  the  thing  above 
all  other  things  that  I  desire  and  that  we  all  should  desire.  And  I 
know  equally  well  that  we  cannot  hope  to  obtain  the  goal  of  salva- 
tion and  exaltation  unless  we  do  believe  in  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Son 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  God,  not  merely  as  a  great  teacher,  but  we  must  accept  him  as 
the  Savior  and  the  Redeemer  of  mankind.  No  man  can  be  saved 
without  this  faith  in  Jesus  Christ.  That  means  that  many  men  and 
women  are  going  to  be.  greatly  disappointed  in  the  end  when  they 
learn  the  whole  truth. 

AN  INDIVIDUAL  TESTIMONY 

I  am  thankful  to  my  Father  in  heaven  that  he  has  made  it  easy 
for  me  to  believe  on  him  as  the  God  of  this  world  and  the  Creator 
of  the  heavens  and  the  earth  and  the  laws  by  which  they  are  gov- 
erned, the  very  eternal  Father  of  the  spirits  of  all  men ;  I  have  no 
doubts,  every  fiber  of  my  being  responds  to  that  testimony  and 
declaration.  I  am  equally  thankful  that  I  have  no  doubts  with  re- 
gard to  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  and  his  mission.  I  do  know  by  the 
witness  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  whose  mission  it  is  to  reveal  unto  us 
the  things  of  God,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Savior  and  Re- 
deemer of  the  world,  the  very  Messiah.  I  thank  the  Lord  that  I 
have  believed  and  that  I  have  received  the  witness,  and  that  I  am 
without  doubt  with  regard  to  these  things.  As  a  special  witness  of 
the  Lord  unto  the  people,  not  the  Latter-day  Saints  alone/but  unto 
this  whole  world,  I  bear  my  testimony,  which  I  know  I  will  have 
to  meet  hereafter,  that  I  do  know  that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world,  and  that  I  do  know  this  is  his 
work,  and  that  there  must  be  faith  in  Jesus  Christ,  and  obedience 
unto  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  his  gospel,  if  we  would  obtain 
eternal  life.  These  things  we  have  accepted,  and  it  is  our  desire 
and  we  are  making  effort  to  live  up  to  the  perfect  law  of  Christ,  the 
law  of  the  gospel,  which  is  a  law  of  liberty.  But  we  are  mortal, 
we  confess  our  sins  daily  before  God,  and  before  one  another,  still 
we  have  hope,  notwithstanding  our  weaknesses,  that  we  will  endure 
in  the  faith,  and  that  by  persistent  striving  and  with  the  help  of  the 
Lord,  we  will  ultimately  overcome  evil  and  gain  eternal  life,  and 
we  can  afford  to  be  merciful  and  charitable  to  those  who  are  less 
fortunate  than  are  we. 

OUR  ACCEPTED  PRINCIPLES  ETERNAL 

To  those  who  are  on  the  outside  I  would  like  to  say  this,  that 
while  members  of  this  Church  are  mortal,  and  have  weaknesses, 
and  do  err  and  do  things  that  are  not  commendable,  the  principles 
which  we  have  accepted  are  eternal,  they  are  true  and  exalting,  and 
we  should  be  able  to  differentiate  between  the  lives,  actions  and 
words  of  men,  and  the  religion  which  they  have  received  and  which 
in  their  weakness  they  are  trying  to  live.  Now,  I  admonish  you 
to  repent  of  your  sins  and  come  and  join  us  and  be  better  men  and 
women,  if  you  can,  than  we  are,  and  we  will  not  be  jealous  or 
envious,  we  will  love  you  the  more. 

God  bless  you  all,  members  of  the  Church  and  non-members 
alike,  our  Father's  children,  may  those  who  are  in  spiritual  dark- 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


37 


ness,  be  brought  to  see  the  light.  May  they  be  given  courage  to 
act  according  to  the  light  and  understanding  they  may  receive, 
that  all  who  would,  may  eventually  be  saved  and  exalted  in  the 
kingdom  of  God,  I  earnestly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

SYMPATHY  EXTENDED  TO  THOSE  WHO  MOURN 

Since  our  last  Conference,  President  Peter  M.  Hansen,  of  the 
Bear  River  stake,  has  passed  away,  also  Brothers  Arthur  A.  Pax- 
man,  Edgar  A.  Hunsaker  and  Hans  C.  Sorenson,  Bishops  of  Wash- 
ington, Mesa,  and  Mount  Carmel  wards,  respectively. 

The  fine  singing  today  reminds  me  of  the  fact  that  our  organ- 
ist, the  late  John  J.  McClellan,  has  also  passed  away. 

We  extend  our  heartfelt  sympathy  to  those  who  have  been 
called  upon,  through  the  death  of  their  loved  ones,  to  be  separated 
from  them. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Great  is  Jehovah,  the  Lord,"  Jessie 
Williams  singing  the  solo  parts. 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Harry  L.  Payne,  presi- 
dent of  the  St.  Joseph  stake,  Arizona. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Monday  morning,  10  o'clock,  October 
5,  1925. 

FIRST  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

An  overflow  meeting  of  the  conference  was  held  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  at  10  o'clock,  Sunday  Morning,  October  4.  1 

Elder  Rey  L.  Pratt,  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President 
of  the  Mexican  mission,  presided. 

The  music  was  furnished  by  a  double  quartet  from  the  Thirty-first 
ward,  Salt  Lake  City,  Elder  George  H.  Durham,  conductor;  Elder 
Tracy  Y.  Cannon  at  the  organ. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Harrison  E.  Jenkins,  of  Salt  Lake 

City. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Come,  let  us  anew." 

ELDER  SERGE  F.  BALLIF 

Formerly  President  of  the  Swiss-German  Mission 

My  beloved  brothers  and  sisters,  I  feel  very  humble  and  weak 
this  morning  in  standing  before  this  great  congregation  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  I  trust  that  the  words  uttered  in  the  prayer  may 
be  realized. 

I  am  very  thankful  to  my  heavenly  Father  for  the  knowledge 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  testimony  that  I  have  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  There 
never  has  been  a  doubt  in  my  mind  from  my  earliest  infancy  of 
the  divinity  of  this  work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  I  take  this 
book,  the  Bible,  from  cover  to  cover,  as  an  inspired  word,  inspired 
of  the  Lord,  and  I  have  been  taught  all  my  life  to  believe  it.  Not- 
withstanding all  that  may  be  said  by  the  scientists,  I  never  have 
discovered  anything  in  my  life  in  the  Word  of  the  Lord  that  is 
not  a  part  of  all  true  science.  I  believe  it  with  all  my  soul;  I  be- 
lieve it  is  the  science  of  all  truth,  and  if  we  have  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  with  us  when  we  read  this  book,  we  will  be  able  to  know  be- 
yond all  question  of  doubt  that  it  is  the  Word  of  God. 

I  was  a  little  surprised,  this  morning,  in  reading  the  morning 
paper,  to  see  my  name  announced  as  one  of  the  speakers  in  this 
conference,  this  morning. 

I  have  just  recently  returned  from  a  business  and  pleasure 
trip  throughout  Utah,  Idaho,  Oregon,  and  Washington,  and  I  also 
went  over  into  British  Columbia.  In  all  the  years  of  my  life  I  do 
not  believe  that  I  ever  saw  the  country  so  prosperous  as  it  is  at 
the  present  time.  I  never  saw  such  crops  of  wheat  throughout 
the  northwest,  such  crops  of  alfalfa,  of  beets,  and  fruit  as  I  have 
seen  during  my  travels  the  last  few  weeks.  And  I  was  thinking 
that  we  all  should  feel  that  the  Lord  is  mindful  of  this  people.  He 
has  blessed  the  earth  for  our  sakes,  for  our  good ;  for  we  are  all  his 
people,  all  his  children — we  may  not  all  see  alike,  but  at  the  same 
time  we  are  all  the  children  of  the  Father — and  he  pours  out  his 
blessings  upon  us.  And  when  he  does  that,  he  does  it  for  the  pur- 
pose that  we  will  use  these  blessings  to  accomplish  good.  I  hope 
that  this  will  be  a  warning  to  our  people  that  they  should  be  mind- 
ful of  these  blessings  and  take  care  of  the  things  that  the  Lord  is 
blessing  us  with.  I  appreciate,  beyond  my  power  to  say,  the  bless- 
ings that  have  come  to  me.  I  enjoy  them  and  I  appreciate  them, 
and  I  want  to  show  my  appreciation  by  serving  the  Lord  and  keep- 
ing his  commandments.  And  the  only  way  I  can  do  it,  is  by  being 
mindful  of  the  Lord's  goodness  to  me,  and  doing  my  full  duty  in 
keeping  his  commandments  and  obeying  his  laws.  What  a  wonder- 
ful thing  it  would  be  today  if  all  the  people  this  year  should  remem- 
ber the  Lord,  not  forget  him  at  this  time  of  prosperity !  It  is  easy 
to  remember  him  when  we  are  in  distress,  in  famine.  Remember 
the  Lord  in  the  day  of  plenty.  Remember  that  he  has  opened  the 
windows  of  heaven  and  has  poured  his  blessings  upon  us.  Now, 
let  us  be  good  stewards  and  take  care  of  what  the  Lord  has  given 
us,  and  pay  our  tithes  and  our  offerings,  and  the  Lord  will  con- 
tinue to  bless  us. 

Since  coming  into  the  room  I  have  thought  of  this  passage  of 
scripture,  which  I  am  going  to  read  to  vou.  I  believe  in  all  the 
principles  of  the  gospel.  We  have  been  preaching  them  now  for 
practically  one  hundred  years:  faith,  repentance,  and  baptism,  and 
many  of  us — perhaps  all  of  us  present  today — have  rendered  obedi- 


I 


ELDER  SERGE  F.  BALLIF  39 

ence  to  the  first  principles  of  the  gospel.  I  remember  so  well  that 
beautiful,  matchless  sermon  of  the  Master's,  the  Sermon  on  the 
Mount.  After  he  had  concluded  that  sermon  he  spoke  to  the  Saints 
as  follows : 

"Judge  not,  that  ye  be  not  judged. 

"For  with  what  judgment  ye  judge,  ye  shall  be  judged:  and  with  what 
measure  ye  mete,  it  shall  be  measured  to  you  again. 

"And  why  beholdest  thou  the  mote  that  is  in  thy  brother's  eye,  but 
considerest  not  the  beam  that  is  in  thine  own  eye? 

"Or  how  wilt  thou  say  to  thy  brother,  Let  me  pull  out  the  mote  out  of 
thine  eye;  and  behold,  a  beam  is  in  thine  own  eye? 

"Thou  hypocrite,  first  cast  out  the  beam  out  of  thine  own  eye;  and 
then  shalt  thou  see  clearly  to  cast  out  the  mote  out  of  thy  brother's  eye." 

I  think  of  this  for  myself  very  often.  I  would  like  to  judge  my 
brethren  and  sisters  righteously  and  justly.  I  think  that  we  are 
too  often  prone  to  judge  harshly.  O,  it  is  a  beautiful  thing  to  be 
kind  and  charitable  and  judge  righteously  in  all  affairs  pertaining 
to  our  everyday  lives.  This  gospel  of  faith,  repentance,  and  bap- 
tism to  me  does  not  end  when  we  have  been  born  again,  but  it  goes 
on  throughout  our  daily  lives,  and  what  we  build  here,  we  will  in- 
habit; what  we  sow  here,  we  will  reap,  just  as  surely  as  the  Lord 
lives.  And  we  cannot  deceive  the  Lord,  because  the  Lord  is  just 
and  will  mete  out  unto  us  justice  in  the  fullest  measure,  and  I  be- 
lieve, my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  should  be  careful  in  judging 
one  another  not  too  rashly  and  too  quickly.  Be  careful  and  wise  in 
your  judgments. 

"Ask,  and  it  shall  be  given  you;  seek,  and  ye  shall  find;  knock,  and  it 
shall  be  opened  unto  you." 

I  believe  those  words  with  all  my  heart;  I  think  they  are  all 
true.  And  I  do  not  believe  that  I  can  sit  down  in  my  home  and 
pray  and  ask  the  Lord  to  help  me,  and  then,  if  I  go  out  on  to  the 
road  in  my  daily  life  in  business,  that  I  can  deceive  the  Lord,  if  I 
am  not  honest  and  just  with  my  fellowmen,  do  not  pay  my  tithes 
and  offerings,  and  am  not  honest  in  my  daily  labors.  I  believe  that 
a  true  Latter-day  Saint  is  true  in  every  respect,  and  lives  up  to  his 
professions  in  every  respect.  That  is  the  doctrine  of  the  Master, 
that  we  shall  practice  and  live  up  to  the  principles  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  that  the  world  may  see  our  good  works,  judge  us  by 
them,  and  glorify  our  Father  in  heaven. 

"For  every  one  that  asketh  receiveth;  and  he  that  seeketh  findeth;  and 
to  him  that  knocketh  it  shall  be  opened." 

How  are  you  going  to  knock?  "Seek  and  ye  shall  find."  My 
brothers  and  sisters,  the  Lord  is  not  going  to  give  us  anything  that 
we  do  not  work  for.  We  can  sit  here  and  prav  for  a  thing,  but 
faith  without  works  is  dead,  and  in  all  avocations  of  life,  in  my 
daily  business,  in  my  daily  work,  I  commend  myself  every  morn- 
ing to  the  Lord.  And  O,  how  thankful  I  am  for  the  teachings  of 
my  dear  old  mother !  I  can  remember  very  well  when  I  was  a  little 
boy,  when  my  mother  called  her  family  about  her  knee  and  we 
prayed.   We  did  not  pray  to  an  unknown  God  but  to  our  heavenly 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Father.  And  I  can  testify  to  you  that  our  heavenly  Father  hears 
and  answers  prayers.  I  know  that  just  as  well  as  I  know  that  I  am 
living,  and  I  know  that  he  will  answer  the  prayers  of  all  his  faith- 
ful and  humble  servants  who  seek  him  honestly  and  diligently. 

"Or  what  man  is  there  of  you,  whom  if  his  son  ask  bread,  will  he  give 
him  a  stone? 

"Or  if  he  ask  a  fish,  will  he  give  him  a  serpent? 

"If  ye,  then,  being  evil,  know  how  to  give  good  gifts  unto  your  chil- 
dren, how  much  more  shall  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven  give  good 
things  to  them  that  ask  him?" 

Ask  him  in  faith  and  he  will  bless  you.  He  often  blesses  us, 
I  think,  more  than  we  are  worthy  of.  He  is  kinder  to  us  than  we 
are  in  many  instances  to  our  neighbors,  to  our  brothers  and  sisters. 

"Therefore,  all  things  whatsoever  ye  would  that  men  should  do  to  you, 
do  ye  even  so  to  them:  for  this  is  the  law  and  the  prophets." 

I  believe  in  that,  I  believe  in  every  word  of  it.  I  never  would 
ask  a  man  to  do  a  thing  for  me  that  I  would  not  do  for  him.  I  was 
president  of  the  Swiss-German  mission  in  1903.  For  about  six 
years  and  a  half  I  presided  over  that  mission,  but  I  always  had  this 
in  mind  that  I  would  never  send  a  man  to  do  a  thing  in  the  mission 
field  that  I  would  not  do  and  did  not  do  myself.  I  believe  in  that 
principle,  I  believe  in  justice,  and  whatever  I  ask  a  man  to  do  I  am 
willing  and  feel  that  we  should  all  be  willing  to  do  ourselves.  That 
was  the  teaching  of  the  Master. 

"Enter  ye  in  at  the  strait  gate:  for  wide  is  the  gate,  and  broad  is  the 
way,  that  leadeth  to  destruction,  and  many  there  be  which  go  in  thereat; 

"Because  strait  is  the  gate,  and  narrow  is  the  way,  which  leadeth  unto 
life,  and  few  there  be  that  find  it." 

I  was  thinking  of  this  scripture  during  my  last  travels.  I  was 
in  the  city  of  Portland,  I  was  in  the  city  of  Seattle,  and  a  great  many 
of  the  large  centers,  and  the  first  thing  I  looked  for  was  the  "Mor- 
mon" Church,  the  Church  which  claims  to  be  the  only  true  Church 
upon  the  earth,  and  I  believe  that  absolutely,  but  in  those  large 
cities  I  had  to  hunt  around  as  if  for  a  needle  in  a  haystack  to  find 
our  people.  I  found  them  in  Portland,  but  not  in  Seattle.  I  could 
not  find  them  in  many  other  places.  No  doubt  they  were  there. 
I  was  there  only  a  short  time.  But  in  visiting  among  those  people 
I  could  see  their  condition — not  that  I  condemn  or  blame  them ; 
they  are  living  up  to  what  they  know,  to  what  they  understand 
perhaps  to  be  right — but  O,  what  a  power  it  would  be  if  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  could  be  made  known  to  those  people.  In  the  city 
of  Seattle  I  felt  as  if  I  would  like  to  stand  up  on  some  high  hill 
and  proclaim  the  gospel  to  the  people  of  Seattle.  I  believe  they  are 
a  good  people  and  are  ready  for  the  gospel,  and  it  will  be  given 
them. 

"Beware  of  false  prophets,  which  come  to  you  in  sheep's  clothing,  but 
inwardly  they  are  ravening  wolves. 

"Ye  shall  know  them  by  their  fruits.  Do  men  gather  grapes  of  thorns, 
or  figs  of  thistles? 


ELDER  SERGE  F.  BALLlP 


41 


''Even  so,  every  good  tree  bringeth  forth  good  fruit;  but  a  corrupt  tree 
bringeth  not  forth  good  fruit. 

"A  good  tree  cannot  bring  forth  evil  fruit,  neither  Can  a  corrupt  tree 
bring  forth  good  fruit. 

"Every  tree  that  bringeth  not  forth  good  fruit  is  hewn  down,  and  cast 
into  the  fire. 

"Wherefore  by  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them. 

"Not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me,  Lord,  Lord,  shall  ehter  ihto  the 
kingdom  of  heaven;  but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  my  Father  which  is  in 
heaven." 

Now,  my  message  to  you,  by  brethren  and  sisters,  is  to  do  the 
will  of  our  Father  which  is  in  heaven,  and  you  will  find  in  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  restored  in  our  day,  the  true  and  unadulter- 
ated gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  have  no  apologies  to  offer  for  the 
gospel  restored  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  I  know,  and  have  always  known,  and  bear  testimony  to  you 
that  I  know,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  that  he  was 
the  instrument  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  in  establishing  his  Church 
here  upon  the  earth.  And  I  want  to  testify  to  you  that  I  know  be- 
yond all  question  of  doubt  that  all  those  prophets  who  have  suc- 
ceeded the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  have  been  prophets,  seers,  and 
revelators,  called  and  inspired  of  the  Lord.  And  the  man  who 
stands  at  the  head  of  this  Church  today,  I  want  to  bear  witness  to 
you,  holds  the  keys ;  and  when  God  has  a  message  for  this  people, 
I  promise  you  that  that  message  will  come  through  the  proper 
channel.    God  bless  you.  Amen. 

A  double  mixed  quartet,  consisting  of  Elders  George  H. 
Durham,  John  T  Siech,  Sisters  Ada  Thompson,  Aurora  Hiatt,  Jennie 
Thompson,  Mrs.  George  H.  Durham,  and  Elder  Harrison  E.  Jenkins 
and  June  Sharp,  sang,  "The  sermon  on  the  mount." 

ELDER  ABEL  JOHN  EVANS 

Of  the  Presidency  of  the  Alpine  Stake 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I  presume  an  apology  is  due 
from  me  for  coming  into  the  meeting  late.  I  have  been  a  subscriber 
to  the  Deseret  News,  and  a  reader  of  it  for  fifty  years,  but  the 
notice  that  was  published  there  escaped  my  attention  and  for  that 
reason  I  was  called  from  the  congregation  in  the  large  Tabernacle 
by  President  Grant  this  morning,  and  I  rejoice  exceedingly  this 
morning  that  I  have  been  counted  worthy  to  occupy  a  few  moments 
of  your  time  in  this  conference.  I  feel  great  diffidence  in  arising  to 
address  you,  for  I  have  long  since  learned  that  no  elder  of  this 
Church  can  interest  the  Latter-day  Saints  except  he  be  guided  by 
the  divine  influence  of  our  Father,^  and  therefore  I  beseech  of  you 
an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers  for  a  short  time. 

I  rejoice  in  this  great  Latter-day  work,  and  bear  witness  to  the 
remarks  made  by  Elder  Ballif  that  I  heard  after  coming  into  the 
building.   That  great  apostle  of  the  Gentiles,  Paul,  in  writing  to  the 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Corinthians,  made  this  remarkable  statement:  "Eye  hath  not  seen 
nor  ear  heard,  neither  hath  it  entered  into  the  heart  of  man,  the 
things  God  hath  laid  up  in  store  for  those  who  love  him."  And  then 
let  me  add  that  "those  who  love  him  will  keep  his  commandments." 
I  sometimes  fancy  that  perhaps  we  are  not  as  appreciative  of  our 
membership  in  this  Church  as  we  ought  to  be,  for  when  we  remem- 
ber that  no  person  can  occupy  a  position  of  trust  in  this  Church 
without  first  becoming  a  member  thereof,  and  that  all  these  bless- 
ings and  these  wonderful  experiences  that  we  are  permitted  to  enjoy 
and  by  reason  Of  participation,  in  which  our  souls  become  en- 
larged, our  vision  extends,  and  we  are  better  able  to  appreciate  and 
see  the  handiwork  of  our  Father.  We  realize  that  all  these  matters 
grow  out  of  our  membership  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  can  say  for  one  that  I  have  been  in  the  Church 
all  my  life,  and  at  no  time,  during  that  entire  period,  have  I  been 
better  satisfied,  had  more  assurance,  or  ever  felt  in  my  mind  more 
determination  to  continue  to  the  end  than  I  do  this  day.  I  thank 
God  for  that.  It  has  been  my  privilege  to  traverse  land  and  sea  to 
the  old  world  to  preach  the  gospel,  and  I  have  sought  in  my  humble 
way  to  explain  the  principles  of  our  doctrine.  I  have  borne  my 
testimony  in  private  homes,  upon  the  street  corners,  and  in  assem- 
blages of  people  in  halls,  bearing  witness  of  the  divinity  of  the 
restoration  of  the  gospel  anew — not  a  new  gospel  but  the  old  gospel 
introduced  and  ushered  into  the  world  while  we  have  been  per- 
mitted to  live  in  it.  O,  what  a  wonderful  thing  it  is,  and  when  we 
contemplate  all  the  great  multitude  and  millions  of  people  extant 
upon  the  earth,  we  realize  that  but  few  in  comparison  have  had  their 
hearts  touched  and  their  souls  lit  up  so  that  they  have  received  a 
witness  of  the  divinity  of  this  great  latter-day  work.  When  I  con- 
template the  condition  of  my  own  father  and  mother;  and  when  I 
refer  to  that,  it  is  not  from  a  selfish  standpoint,  because  many  of 
your  grandfathers  and  grandmothers  were  under  the  same  condi- 
tion— my  father  belonged  to  no  church,  he  took  very  great  delight 
in  going  and  putting  ministers  to  rout.  He  was  a  great  reader  of 
the  Scriptures  and  could  put  them  all  to  rout  by  the  Scriptures 
themselves.  When  he  heard  a  man  by  the  name  of  Hanshaw  had 
come  to  preach  the  gospel,  he  and  his  father  went  there  for  the  very 
purpose  of  exploding  the  things  that  he  would  put  forth.  When  he 
heard  that  witness,  though  in  broken  sentences,  and  with  a  stam- 
mering tongue,  bearing  witness  that  the  Lord  had  revealed  anew, 
that  the  Lord  had  come  himself  and  brought  his  Son  and  introduced 
him  to  that  boy,  in  answer  to  prayer,  that  he  was  to  restore  that 
lost  gospel  that  had  been  obliterated  from  the  earth  for  so  many 
years,  it  touched  his  soul,  and  not  a  word  came  from  his  lips.  And 
when  they  were  going  away,  my  grandfather  said  to  him,  "Abel, 
how  is  it  you  did  not  pitch  into  this  man?"  He  said,  "Father,  that 
man  has  the  truth,  and  I  shall  not  be  found  fighting  against  God." 
And  I  think,  as  I  understand  it,  that  he  was  the  second  man  bap- 


Elder  Abel  John  evans 


43 


tized  in  Wales.  He  devoted  ten  years  of  the  best  of  his  life  from 
the  time  he  was  25  years  old  to  35  years  old  in  preaching  that 
gospel  in  his  native  land.  He  then  came  out  here  to  Utah,  under 
trying  circumstances,  and  endured  the  common  hardships  incident 
to  pioneer  life  in  Utah,  and  then  was  called  from  the  Great  Taber- 
nacle without  previous  notice  and  sent  back  to  his  native  land,  and 
after  a  year  and  a  half  of  service,  laid  down  his  bones  in  that  land 
for  the  gospel's  sake. 

My  mother,  a  girl  of  twenty  years  of  age,  never  met  my  father 
until  they  were  on  the  sea.  She  left  the  home  of  her  father  and 
mother,  who  were  dear  and  good  people,  because  her  heart  had 
been  touched  with  that  divine  message,  and  went  out  into  a  world 
among  strangers,  knowing  not  where  she  was  going,  except  that 
the  voice  had  called  and  she  had  heeded  it,  "Come  out  of  Babylon ; 
the  great  Babylon  is  falling."  When  I  think  of  these  things,  I  won- 
der sometimes,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  if  we  have  been  as  true  to 
them,  if  we  have  been  as  faithful  to  the  trust  and  heritage  com- 
mitted to  our  keeping  as  we  should  be,  when  they  endured  what 
they  did  in  these  trials  and  circumstances ! 

So  I  rejoice  in  this  great  latter-day  work,  and  my  mind  reverted 
back  to  a  passage  of  scripture  when  Brother  Ballif  was  reading  this 
great  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  considered  and  accepted  as  among  the 
greatest  sermons  ever  delivered  to  humanity.  The  closing  part  of 
it  came  to  my  mind :  When  ye  read  these  things,  if  you  accept  them 
not  you  will  be  as  a  man  that  built  his  house  upon  the  sand,  and 
when  the  winds  blew  and  the  rains  descended  and  the  floods  came 
and  beat  upon  that  house,  it  fell,  because  it  was  builded  upon  the 
sand ;  but  those  who  hear  these  words  of  mine  and  do  them,  I 
will  liken  unto  a  man  that  built  his  house  upon  the  rock,  and 
when  the  winds  blew  and  the  rains  descended  and  the  floods  came 
and  beat  upon  that  house,  it  fell  not.  Why?  Because  it  was  built 
upon  a  rock.  I  want  to  bear  witness  to  this  congregation  here  this 
morning  that  this  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is 
builded  upon  the  rock.  And  when  the  winds  blow,  as  they  have 
blown  in  the  past,  when  the  rains  descend,  as  they  have  descended 
in  the  past,  when  floods  come,  as  they  have  in  the  past,  it  will  not 
fall,  because  it  is  founded  upon  a  rock.  All  the  persecution,  driv- 
ings, scourges  that  have  been  put  upon  this  people  have  left  them 
standing  firm,  and  unmoved  from  their  mooring,  because  God  is 
at  the  helm. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  should  rejoice  in  this  work. 
If  there  is  one  principle  that  has  sunk  into  my  soul  and  over  which 
I  rejoice,  as  much  as  any  that  has  come  into  my  life,  it  is  because 
I  am  sure  beyond  the  question  of  a  doubt  that  men  and  women  will 
be  rewarded  according  to  the  deeds  done  in  the  body.  If  that  is 
true,  it  should  be  an  incentive  to  you  and  me,  in  every  walk  in 
life,  to  see  to  it  that  we  shall  give  to  the  world,  to  our  friends,  to 
our  Church,  to  our  God,  the  best  there  is  in  us.    That  is  the  way 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


it  appeals  to  me.  We  might  deceive  our  bishop,  brethren  and 
sisters,  we  may  deceive  his  counselors,  we  may  deceive  our  neigh- 
bors, but  let  me  assure  you  that  you  cannot  deceive  God.  The  Lord 
has  told  us  that  we  should*  pay  one-tenth  of  our  interest  annually 
into  his  storehouse,  that  the  means  may  be  provided  for  the  Church 
that  it  may  be  carried  on  properly  in  conformity  with  the  plan  he 
has  instituted  to  carry  out  his  work.  I  wonder  if  we  are  doing  it. 
If  we  are,  then  we  are  justified;  if  we  are  not  doing  it,  we  are  not, 
for  it  is  a  most  gracious  and  just  law,  the  most  equitable  perhaps 
ever  instituted  in  the  world.  If  a  man  only  earns  $100  a  year  he  is 
only  required  to  pay  $10;  if  he  earns  a  thousand  dollars,  $100; 
$10,000,  then  a  thousand.  It  is  equitable,  it  is  distributed  properly 
and  justly.  And  O,  what  a  blessing  it  is  that  this  system  has  come 
into  our  midst,  that  the  Lord  has  revealed  it  anew  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  the  law  that  was  carried  out  anciently.  You  re- 
member what  the  Lord  charged  his  people  with  when  he  said,  "This 
whole  people  have  robbed  me."  If  they  were  robbing  God  then,  if 
we  are  doing  the  same  thing  now,  we  are  robbing  him  now.  Do 
you  want  to  rob  him,  my  brethren  and  sisters?  I  take  it  that  you 
don't.    But  sometimes  we  lack  just  a  little  faith. 

It  seems  now  that  the  world  is  moving  mighty  rapidly;  we 
must  have  automobiles,  we  must  go  to  places  of  resort,  we  must 
dress  in  fine  linen.  That  seems  to  be  the  rule,  but  I  want  to  tell 
you  and  warn  you  now  that  there  must  be  a  curtailing  in  these 
things,  that  our  hearts  may  turn  to  God  and  his  purposes  and  his 
work  in  the  world ;  for  we  are  the  salt  of  the  earth,  and  don't  forget 
it,  and  on  us  rests  the  responsibility  of  preaching  this  gospel  to  the 
nations  of  the  earth,  that  all  people  may  be  warned  to  repent  and 
come  unto  the  Lord.  That  is  our  mission.  And  then  in  addition  to 
that  we  are  expected  to  gather  in  the  genealogy  of  our  ancestry, 
that  we  may  be  bound  back  to  father  Adam,  for  they  without  us 
cannot  be  made  perfect,  nor  we  without  them.  This  is  our  responsi- 
bility.  Will  we  discharge  it?   Each  one  must  answer  for  himself? 

May  God  help  us  to  do  it,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  see  the 
light  and  then  walk  in  it,  for  I  bear  witness  that  this  is  the  work  of 
the  Lord.  Joseph  Smith  was  divinely  called  by  the  Father,  and  I 
have  not  any  more  doubt  that  the  Father  and  Son  appeared  to 
Joseph  Smith  and  that  the  Father  instructed  the  Savior,  and  the 
Savior  delivered  the  message  to  Joseph  Smith,  than  I  would  have, 
had  I  heard  it,  because  God  has  borne  witness  to  me.  You  remem- 
ber in  the  case  of  Thomas,  when  the  Savior  was  resurrected  and 
Thomas  would  not  believe,  unless  he  could  see  the  prints  and 
thrust  his  hand  into  the  wound,  this  is  what  the  Savior  said  wheu 
Thomas  did  see  him,  "Come  hither,  Thomas,  and  put  your  fingers 
in  the  prints,  thrust  your  hand  into  the  wound."  Then  he  said, 
"Blessed  art  thou,  Thomas,  for  thou  hast  seen  and  believed ;  but 
more  blessed  are  those  who  have  believed  and  not  seen" — because 
of  the  witness  and  the  divine  impression  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 


ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENNION 


45 


May  God  help  us  to  do  these  things,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENNION 

Superintendent  of  Church  Schools 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  sincerely  trust  that  the  time  I 
may  occupy  may  be  occupied  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord.  This  is  the  first  time  that  it  has  come  to  me  to  address 
a  congregation  in  General  Conference.  I  have  sat  through  these 
conferences  now  for  six  years  with  a  sort  of  safety,  a  safety  akin  to 
the  security  of  the  man  who  refused  to  take  out  any  insurance  be- 
cause, he  said,  he  had  never  died  yet.  And  then,  as  a  thunderbolt 
out  of  the  sky  comes  the  call  from  the  tabernacle  to  come  over  here 
to  join  with  you.  I  trust  that  I  may  catch  the  spirit  of  this  gather- 
ing, that  the  spirit  which  has  prompted  both  Brother  Ballif  and 
Brother  Evans  may  be  mine,  to  join  with  you  in  the  spirit  of  that 
wonderful  sermon,  "Blessed  are  they  which  do  hunger  and  thirst 
after  righteousness,  for  they  shall  be  filled."  I  would  that  we  might 
so  hunger  and  thirst  this  hour  and  not  be  disappointed. 

My  testimony  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  grows  with  the 
years.  It  is  stronger  as  I  gain  more  experience.  I  am  more  grate- 
ful every  day  that  I  live  that  I  belong  to  this  Church.  I  find  such 
evidence  of  its  truth  and  its  divinity  that  I  am  proud,  though  proud 
in  humility,  for  my  membership  in  it;  and,  like  the  brethren  who 
have  preceded  me,  I  have  been  a  member  in  it  all  of  my  life.  I  was 
born  into  it  and  therefore  cannot  claim  the  distinction  that  attaches 
to  conversion,  but  the  longer  I  am  in  it  the  more  grateful  I  am  for 
my  membership.  Very  many  times  of  late  I  have  been  running 
through  my  consciousness  to  discover  the  reasons  for  that  grati- 
tude. The  subject  is  altogether  too  big  to  be  launched  here  in  its 
entirety ;  I  find  evidences  at  every  turn,  but  there  have  been  run- 
ning through  my  mind  of  late  thoughts  which  go  back  to  Califor- 
nia. As  a  matter  of  fact,  they  center  in  an  experience  that  I  had 
down  in  the  University  of  California.  The  men  on  the  faculty  of 
the  University  of  California  used  to  make  the  observation  fre- 
quently that  in  view  of  the  fact  that  I  had  come  from  Utah  perhaps 
I  knew  something  about  the  Mormons,  and  when  I  said,  yes,  I  was 
from  Utah,  and  made  the  second  revelation  to  them  that  I  was  also 
a  Mormon,  without  an  exception,  when  they  heard  that  word  they 
used  to  exclaim,  "O — ,  O,  you  are  a  Mormon !"  It  has  been  ex- 
claimed so  many  times  that  it  began  to  get  into  the  center  of  my  in- 
terest. Just  last  summer,  as  we  climbed  up  Timpanogos,  a  visiting 
teacher,  who  was  giving  work  in  the  Alpine  summer  school,  took 
occasion  to  make  an  observation  with  reference  to  God  and  his  con- 
cept of  Him,  and  as  he  explained  that  his  idea  of  God,  of  course, 
was  an  intangible  sort  of  being,  not  a  being  at  all,  for  that  matter — 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


a  great  universal  force — he  looked  up  and  caught  the  expression,  I 
suppose,  on  my  face,  and  said,  "O,  I  suppose  I  should  not  have 
said  that  to  you,  because  you  are  a  Mormon."  As  I  thought  of 
those  "O's"  so  many  times  I  decided  that  I  would  work  out  a 
little  answer,  and  so  now,  when  any  of  my  friends  say,  "O,  you  are 
a  Mormon?"  I  say,  "O,  yes,  I  am."  And  I  am  going  to  leave  you, 
if  I  may  enjoy  the  spirit  of  this  gathering,  a  few  of  the  O's  which 
go  into  my  little  scheme  of  answer. 

I  take  it  we  have  gathered  this  morning  that  we  may  think 
through  anew  the  gospel  plan,  in  order  that  we  may  build  up  our 
own  testimonies.  For  want  of  a  better  scheme,  I  would  like  to 
hang  a  few  ideas  about  this  little  scheme  which  I  call  the  O's  of 
Mormonism. 

The  first  O  that  makes  me  grateful  for  my  membership  in  this 
Church  is  the  O  of  Origin.  A  noted  writer,  who  has  produced  one 
of  the  outstanding  books  in  religious  education  in  this  country,  says 
that  he  is  not  very  much  concerned  about  origins,  that  the  origin 
of  a  church  does  not  bother  him ;  he  does  not  ask,  "How  did  it  get 
started?"  but  his  test  of  a  religion  or  church  is,  "What  will  it  do  for 
its  members?"  I  grant  you — and  I  hope  to  say  something  about 
that  before  I  am  through — I  grant  you  that  what  a  church  does  for 
its  people  really  is  a  great  test  of  a  religion,  but  I  am  not  prepared 
to  go  the  full  limit  and  sav  that  origins  do  not  make  any  difference. 
I  find  that  is  not  true ;  this  is  a  day  of  origins.  I  have  been  reading 
and  rereading  again  that  book  by  Dr.  Wiggam,  "The  New  Deca- 
logue of  Science,"  and  the  whole  foundation  is  a  foundation  of 
origins.  He  says  that  men  and  women  become  what  they  become 
essentially  because  of  their  birthright ;  given  a  noble  family,  in  all 
probability  out  of  that  parenthood  you  will  have  worthy  children ; 
given  inferior  parenthood,  and  the  chances  are  you  will  have  in- 
ferior children ;  it  is  all  largely  a  matter  of  origins.  He  opens  one 
of  the  chapters  in  that  book  with  the  famous  declaration  that  this 
has  become  a  wonderful  country  very  largely  because  it  had  its 
origin  in  a  foundation  of  wonderful  people.  He  pays  them  the 
tribute  to  say  that  they  shot  Indians  through  the  porthole  with  one 
eye  but  that  they  taught  the  Bible  to  their  children  with  the  other  ; 
they  lived  on  parched  corn,  it  is  true,  but  they  preserved  their 
parched  learning,  which  centered  in  their  idea  of  God.  And  Amer- 
ica has  been  builded  as  a  great  commonwealth  because  America  had 
a  great  origin.  Wherever  I  turn,  I  find  that  origins  count  tremend- 
ously. I  have  just  had  the  good  fortune  to  enjoy  this  same  trip  that 
Brother  Ballif  has  described,  and  along  the  way  I  have  been  struck 
with  the  thought  that  along  with  other  wonders,  the  water  supply 
throughout  the  Northwest  is  a  very  great  source  of  satisfaction. 
Their  water  supply  is  pure,  because  its  origin  is  right.  It  arises  in 
the  mountains.  Very  many  cities  in  this  great  country  of  ours  have 
the  problem  of  a  water  supply,  because  they  lack  that  origin.   It  is 


ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENNION 


47 


hard  to  improve  upon  the  water  that  nature  gives  us.  Origin !  we 
could  spend  the  hour  on  origins.  No  breeder  of  animals  but  knows 
that  he  will  produce  the  kind  of  stock  that  he  breeds  to.  He  knows 
that  at  every  turn  he  will  get  in  kind,  and  the  kind  of  stock  he 
raises  will  be  determined  by  the  origin  of  the  stock.  No  man  ever 
chooses  a  wife  but  he  is  tremendously  impressed  with  the  import- 
ance of  origins.  I  cannot  conceive  of  a  man's  going  forward  to  say, 
"I  have  come  to  that  time  when  I  want  a  helpmate ;  I  do  not  care 
at  all  about  origins;  I  will  just  find  an  available  girl,  and  quite  apart 
from  her  family  history  and  all  else  I  will  choose  her."  I  have  dis- 
covered that  men  of  discernment  choose  out  of  worthy  families.  I 
am  grateful  to  the  comment  of  a  brother-in-law  who  gave  this 
humorous  but  tremendously  helpful  hint — I  wish  I  had  the  genius 
to  pass  it  on  to  the  boys — he  said,  if  he  could  give  advice  to  boys  he 
would  tell  them  when  they  came  to  pick  a  helpmate,  to  find  a 
worthy  mother,  and  take  any  one  of  the  daughters  they  could  get. 
He  was  impressed  that  there  is  a  tremendous  force  in  origins.  And 
yet  some  of  our  good  friends  would  say  that  in  this  most  vital  of 
concerns  in  life,  religion,  the  thing  that  binds  us  here  and  here- 
after, which  links  up  between  time  and  eternity,  it  does  not  matter 
what  the  origin  may  be.  I  am  glad  to  belong  to  a  church  that 
claims  as  its  origin  a  revelation  out  of  heaven  announcing  the  voice 
of  God  Himself  and  His  Son  to  declare  His  prophet,  as  was  declared 
unto  those  of  old.  And  that  is  the  kind  of  origin  I  want  my  Church 
to  claim.  All  Latter-day  Saints  may  be  grateful  this  morning  that 
we  belong  to  a  church  that  has  its  origin  in  that  divine  pronounce- 
ment. The  pronouncement  was  followed  by  others  and  with  an 
ushering  in  of  the  power  of  the  Priesthood  and  the  giving  of  the 
keys  of  this  last  dispensation.  Mormonism  rises  or  falls  upon  that 
tremendous  platform,  that  in  its  origin  it  goes  back  to  God  the 
Father  and  the  Son.  We  could  spend  the  morning  on  origins.  I 
am  simply  throwing  out  a  few  hints  for  your  more  mature  think- 
ing, when  you  shall  have  left  this  conference. 

Much  has  been  said  in  the  writings  of  this  Church  about  our 
wonderful  second  O.  I  want  to  say  only  a  word  about  it.  The 
second  O  is  the  O  of  Organization.  It  was  said  a  number  of  years 
ago  that  the  two  most  perfect  organizations  in  the  world  were  the 
German  army  and  the  Mormon  Church,  and  as  I  have  said  to  my 
friends  rather  jocularly  of  late,  "We  knew  what  has  happened  to 
the  German  army ;  I  presume  we  have  a  pretty  clear  claim  to  the 
title."  But  I  do  not  say  it  boastfully.  This  Church  has  a  wonder- 
ful organization.  It.  is  possible  for  a  message  to  go  forth  from  the 
President  of  this  Church  to  all  the  stakes  of  Zion,  out  through  the 
wards,  and  within  a  week  there  can  be  aroused  the  membership  of 
more  than  half  a  million,  to  any  word  that  shall  be  proclaimed.  It 
was  the  pronouncement  during  all  the  time  of  the  war,  during  the 
campaign  of  enlistment,  in  the  raising  of  funds  and  supplies,  that 
it  was  marvelous  how  this  Church  could  respond. 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


But  I  am  not  interested  in  that  aspect  of  organization  so  much 
as  I  am  in  another.  Not  one  of  your  speakers  here  this  morning  had 
announcement  other  than  he  may  have  picked  up  through  the 
paper,  and  I  suspect  all  of  us  were  alike  in  not  having  yet  read 
that  issue,  many  of  us  being  out  at  an  early  meeting  long  before  this 
one  was  called.  There  are  speaking  at  the  sessions  of  this  confer- 
ence men  who  have  had  no  previous  notification.  That  lies  within 
the  genius  of  our  organization.  It  is  a  very  wholesome  thing.  I 
sometimes  wish  it  might  be  extended.  Nobody  can  be  feeling  abso- 
lutely safe  today,  because  it  may  be  his  good  privilege  to  occupy 
this  same  position.  Going  back  to  that  same  California  experi- 
ence :  I  took  a  good  friend  of  mind  down  to  our  service  at  Oak- 
land, and  when  the  service  was  over  he  inquired,  "Is  that  the  kind 
of  service  you  have  regularly?"  I  said,  "In  general,  that  is  the 
plan." 

"Will  that  man  speak  next  Sunday?"  and  I  said,  "No,  he  won't 
speak  next  Sunday." 

"Who  will?"  v 
"I  don't  know." 

"Well,  who  will  sneak  the  next  Sunday?" 
"I  don't  know." 

"Do  you  mean  to  tell  me  that  you  have  men  speak  there  who 
are  not  regularly  appointed  to  do  so?"  I  said,  "Yes,  that  is  the 
scheme." 

Then  he  made  the  observation — and  I  think  he  had  not  been 
particularly  struck  by  what  he  had  heard  that  evening — "Don't  you 
think  you  would  get  better  sermons  if  you  had  one  man  deliver 
them  all  and  if  you  would  let  him  prepare  them  carefully?" 

I  said,  "I  have  just  one  observation  to  make  in  answer  to  that : 
I  presume  you  might  get  a  more  finished  product,  but  I  will  ask 
you  which  would  make  the  stronger  church — to  leave  all  the  ser- 
mons to  one  man  and  let  him  prepare  them  carefully,  or  to  have  a 
church  membership  any  man  in  which  knows  that  on  Sunday  he 
may  be  called  to  fill  that  responsibility?  I  will  leave  it  with  you 
as  a  question,  which  will  build  greater  strength  on  the  part  of  the 
members  of  our  Church,  your  plan  or  ours?" 

He  said  nothing,  but  the  next  day  he  came  over  to  my  desk  and 
said,  "I  have  been  thinking  over  your  question  ever  since  you  asked 
it  last  night,  and  you  win ;  yours  will  build  a  strength  which  cannot 
be  built  in  the  other  plan."  That  is  the  genius  of  this  organization. 
I  am  delighted  when  I  think  that  there  is  no  caste  or  class  or  family 
control  in  this  organization.  Nobody  knows  who  shall  be  called 
next  to  responsibilities  in  wards,  stakes,  or  general  positions.  The 
membership  in  this  Church  has  in  its  own  being  the  potentiality  of 
its  own  leadership.  Let  me  put  it  the  other  way,  the  strength  of 
a  democracy  lies  in  the  fact  that  its  leadership  is  always  inherent ; 
given  great  numbers,  you  have  the  chance  for  great  leadership.  It 
can  come  up  from  within.   I  say  the  second  great  O  in  this  Church 


ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENNION 


49 


is  the  O  of  Organization,  and  I  am  mighty  happy  in  my  member- 
ship in  that  organization. 

But,  let  me  run  on,  because  I  should  like  to  expose  you  for  a 
minute  or  two  to  two  other  O's  that  you  may  think  about  them.  The 
third  O  grows  out  of  the  second.  It  is  very  much  like  the  second, 
except  that  it  is  a  double-headed  one.  I  have  said  very  many  times,' 
that  it  is  as  if  it  were  a  double  link  in  a  chain ;  the  two  segments 
always  go  together.  I  know  of  no  way  of  separating  them,  and  I 
should  not  want  to  if  I  could.  One  of  the  very  great  things  that 
attaches  to  this  organization  lies  in  the  fact  that  that  organization 
presumes  obligation  on  the  part  of  all  of  the  membership  of  this 
Church.  And  then  I  am  struck  with  the  companion  thought — a 
man  never  encounters  an  Obligation  in  his  life  but  he  finds  in  it  his 
Opportunity.  Up  in  the  northwest  recently  a  young  man  was  called 
into  a  bishopric,  and  under  the  suddenness  of  that  call  he  felt  de- 
pressed. He  said*  "I  doubt  that  I  shall  ever  be  able  to  respond 
under  this  obligation."  It  occurred  to  me  that  the  obligation  that 
was  placed  upon  him  as  a  new  bishop  in  this  Church  was  the  oppor- 
tunity that  opened  the  door  to  a  great  life  for  him.  And  at  every 
turn  in  this  Church  I  find  that  these  two  third  O's  go  together.  I 
call  them  the  O's  of  Obligation-Opportunity.  Nobody  ever  joined 
this  Church  because  he  anticipated  having  an  easy  time.  I  cannot 
imagine  any  one's  coming  into  membership  in  this  Church  feeling 
that  he  was  thereby  opening  the  door  of  an  easy  access.  The  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  as  taught  by  the  Latter-day  Saints,  presumes  obli- 
gation, and  with  it  opportunity.  From  the  time  a  boy  is  a  deacon  he 
is  called  to  fill  responsible  positions,  and  from  then  on  up  until  his 
declining  years,  he  finds  an  office  that  is  imposing  obligation  upon 
him.  He  is  asked,  and  so  are  the  women  in  this  Church,  to  respond 
to  calls,  and  no  man  living  fully  to  his  duty  is  free  from  obligation. 

There  came  into  my  office  only  within  the  last  two  weeks,  a 
young  man  who  had  been  called  to  go  upon  a  mission  to  a  foreign 
land.  He  came  out  of  a  familv  that  had  not  been  well  to  do,  and 
which  had  no  funds  to  see  him  through  the  call.  He  had  been  work- 
ing for  two  years  to  lay  by  a  little  sum  to  go  to  college,  and  there 
had  come  the  call  to  go  on  a  mission.  He  said,  "It  is  the  biggest 
obligation  that  has  ever  come  my  way,  and  I  am  wondering  just 
what  I  ought  to  do.  I  have  a  mind  to  go  through  college.  I  would 
like  to  complete  my  training.  I  have  saved  enough.  Should  I  go 
on  a  mission?    I  would  like  your  judgment." 

In  the  face  of  that  obligation,  calling  for  the  expenditure  of  all 
that  he  had  saved  during  two  hard  years  of  labor,  that  boy  was 
willing  to  lay  his  all  upon  the  altar.  I  am  happv  to  announce  to  this 
congregation  that  he  has  left  for  his  mission  and  will  have  spent  all 
of  his  savings  under  that  obligation  before  he  returns,  but  I  prom- 
ised him  that  that  obligation  will  be  an  opportunity  greater  than  he 
could  get  in  any  college  in  all  the  world.  I  say  it  as  a  school  man, 
and  I  am  as  satisfied  as  I  stand  "here  that  there  will  come  out  of 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  obligation  and  his  rising  to  it  a  blessing  which  will  cause  him 
to  pronounce  it  not  an  obligation  but  a  tremendous  opportunity. 
And  the  Church  at  every  turn  offers  them  to  you  and  to  me. 

I  see  that  I  have  run  to  within  the  margin  of  my  time.  I  should 
like  just  to  leave  you  with  the  fourth  O  of  this  little  scheme,  in 
order  that  you  may  run  it  through  to  your  satisfaction.  I  must 
advert  to  the  man  I  quoted  in  the  beginning.  After  all,  the  test  of 
a  religion  does  lie  in  the  kind  of  men  and  women  it  helps  to  make ; 
so  that  my  last  O,  of  necessity,  is  the  O  of  Outcome,  or  Output,  if 
you  prefer  it.  I  am  very  happy  to  have  my  Church  judged  by  the 
kind  of  men  and  women  it  produces.  I  have  said  it  many  times, 
and  I  like  to  repeat  it,  it  is  a  tremendous  challenge :  if  I  could  not 
discuss  the  gospel  with  friends,  I  would  ask  them  just  to  do  two 
things :  let  them  find  a  representative  group  of  young  men  and 
women  who  have  been  taught  the  gospel  and  have  formed  their 
habits  of  life  under  its  inspiration ;  let  them  see  that  group  of  boys 
and  girls  as  one  side  of  the  picture;  and  then  let  them  find  as 
they  could  in  this  audience  this  morning,  men  and  women,  silvered 
with  years,  who  have  spent  their  lives  in  the  gospel,  who  have  sub- 
scribed to  its  principles,  who  have  loved  and  lived  it ;  and  I  am  will- 
ing to  leave  those  two  groups  as  my  evidence  to  the  world  that  this 
gospel  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation. 

I  am  happy,  as  I  stand  here,  to  know  that  this  Church  has  pro- 
duced clean  men  and  women.  When  our  young  men  went  up  to 
Camp  Lewis,  through  which  place  I  have  had  the  privilege  to  go 
within  the  last  two  weeks,  fifteen  hundred  of  them  reported  for  ex- 
amination, and  out  of  fifteen  hundred  only  three  gave  any  evidence 
whatever  of  social  disease.  I  am  proud  to  know  that  Utah  ranked 
with  three  other  states  in  this  Union,  the  cleanest  states  morally 
that  sent  boys  to  the  front.  I  am  willing  to  be  judged  by  the  fruit 
of  the  tree.  I  am  glad  to  know  that  we  have  one  of  the  highest 
birth  rates  in  the  world  today,  33  to  the  thousand.  A  high  birth  rate 
almost  always  carries  with  it  a  high  death  rate.  Though  we  have  a 
birth  rate  of  33,  our  death  rate  is  only  7  to  the  thousand,  one  of  the 
lowest  in  the  world.  I  read  that  with  pride  when  I  read  that 
Frances'  death  rate  is  17  to  the  thousand,  with  an  infant  mortality 
of  96  to  the  thousand — almost  one  in  10  born  to  die  within  the  first 
years  of  its  career.  I  am  glad  to  know  that  we  lead  Europe.  I 
have  quoted  France — 17  to  the  thousand ;  England  follows,  as  I  re- 
call, with  11.6.  Our  death  rate,  in  spite  of  our  high  birth  rate,  is 
only  7  to  the  thousand.  We  have  a  divorce  record  of  which  any 
people  in  the  world  could  be  proud.  We  have  been  charged  with 
immorality,  with  a  lack  of  standard  of  virtue,  and  yet  I  am  glad  to 
proclaim  to  the  world  that  with  all  of  our  membership,  numbering 
beyond  a  half  million,  there  have  been  within  the  past  year  only 
256  cases  of  divorce.  I  only  regret  them,  but  they  constitute  the 
barest  fraction  of  a  per  cent  of  our  total  population.  That  kind  of 
record  cannot  be  held  up  to  the  world  by  a  people  whose  lives  have 


ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENNION 


51 


not  been  based  upon  sound  principles.  I  am  happy  to  testify  that 
judged  by  its  fruit,  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  produced  worthy 
men  and  women. 

I -just  find  in  that  a  tremendous  challenge  to  all  of  us.  I  wish 
we  had  the  power  so  to  live  that  men  and  women  seeing  us  could 
come,  as  they  have  come  on  hundreds  of  occasions,  to  marvel  at 
this  work.  May  I  close  with  the  thought  that  was  given  me  in 
California  as  I  met  people  there  who  had  been  converted  to  our 
Church.  I  took  occasion  to  ask  them  what  it  was  that  brought 
them  into  the  Church.  First  of  all,  thev  said,  they  became  inter- 
ested in  this  gospel,  because  of  the  young  men  and  young  women 
who  proclaimed  its  message.  "Any  church  that  will  produce  that 
type  of  men  and  women  is  a  good  enough  church  for  me."  God 
bless  us  with  the  strength  to  live  this  gospel,  that  wherever  we  go 
men  and  women  will  say  of  us  that  as  members  of  that  Church  we 
are  an  Outcome  that  does  honor  to  the  Church. 

And  so,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  when  my  friends  exclaim,  "O, 
you  are  from  Utah?"  or  "O,  you  are  a  'Mormon'?"  I  say,  ''O,  yes, 
thank  God  that  I  am."  And  O  that  he  would  give  us  the  power  to 
live/to  all  of  its  possibilities,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON 

Assistant  Church  Historian 

I  have  been  greatly  interested  in  the  remarks  already  made  at 
this  overflow  meeting,  and  one  thing  that  impressed  me  in  the  be- 
ginning was  the  singing  of  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil  nor  labor 
fear."  I  also  became  very  much  interested  in  one  of  those  O's  that 
Brother  Bennion  spoke  of — the  Origin  of  Mormonism. 

It  has  been  my  privilege  during  the  past  two  months  to  visit 
some  of  the  so-called  waste  places  of  Zion,  and  adding  these  places 
to  the  list  of  those  I  have  previously  visited,  I  am  now  able  to  say 
that  I  am  more  or  less  acquainted  with  nearly  all  the  places  that 
have  become  sacred  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  because  of  their  con- 
nection with  the  early  days  of  this  Church. 

It  was  a  pleasant  task  for  me  to  visit  Sharon,  Windsor  county, 
Vermont,  where  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  born,  and  to  then 
'follow  in  his  wake  to  the  western  part  of  the  State  of  New  York 
and  there  to  enter  that  sacred  grove  (a  remnant  of  an  extensive 
forest),  where  the  Father  and  the  Son  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith 
and  gave  him  certain  instructions  about  not  joining  the  sects  of  the 
day,  but  to  wait  for  further  revelation.  I  also  visited  the  old  Smith 
residence,  or  the  very  spot  where  the  angel  Moroni  appeared  to 
Joseph  Smith  on  that  memorable  night  between  the  21st  and  22d 
of  September,  1825,  and  then  followed  the  young  Prophet,  as  it 
were,  to  the  hill  Cumorah,  where  I  have  stood  a  number  of  times 
looking  at  the  place  where  the  angel  Moroni  showed  the  Prophet 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Joseph  where  the  plates  containing  an  account  of  the  old  in- 
habitants of  this  land,  were  hidden,  from  which  plates  Joseph  after- 
wards translated  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

Then  on  my  last  visit  I  had  occasion  to  go  down  to  the  Susque- 
hanna River  in  Pennsylvania  to  visit  old  Harmony  where  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  after  he  had  been  driven  by  mobs  from  his  parents' 
home,  translated  the  Book  of  Mormon.  The  work  of  translation 
was  done  in  the  States  of  Pennsylvania  and  New  York,  but  mostly 
in  that  part  of  the  township  of  Harmony,  which  is  now  included  in 
Oakland,  Susquehanna  county,  Pennsylvania.  I  also  had  the  privi- 
lege of  visiting  the  place,  or  the  vicinity,  where  John  the  Baptist 
appeared  to  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  on  the  15th  day  of 
May,  1829,  and  ordained  them  to  the  holy  Aaronic  Priesthood,  and 
again,  to  visit  the  vicinity  where  the  Melchesidec  Priesthood  was 
restored  and  where  the  voice  of  Peter,  James  and  John  was  heard 
in  the  wilderness  on  the  banks  of  the  Susquehanna  River  between 
Harmony,  Pennsylvania,  and  Colesville,  Broome  county,  New  York. 

It  was  indeed  a  blessed  privilege  to  me  to  stand  upon  these 
holy  places,  for  such  they  are  classed  with  me.  I  have  also  been 
permitted  to  enter  the  Kirtland  Temple  in  the  State  of  Ohio,  and 
to  stand  in  the  very  pulpit  where  the  Savior  himself  appeared  on 
the  3rd  of  April,  1836,  and  spoke  to  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cow- 
dery, telling  them  that  he  had  accepted  of  the  temple  which  had 
been  built  to  his  name  by  the  Saints  in  the  days  of  their  poverty. 
It  was  in  the  same  pulpit  and  on  the  same  occasion  that  Moses 
appeared  and  restored  the  keys  for  the  gathering  of  Israel  from 
the  lands  of  the  north,  the  isles  of  the  sea  and  from  other  places 
to  which  Israel  was  driven  thousands  of  years  ago.  The  giving  of 
these  keys  to  men  in  mortality  meant  the  fulfillment  of  prophesy 
to  the  effect  that  God  who  scattered  Israel  will  gather  them  again 
in  the  last  days.  The  congregation  of  Saints  in  this  building  and 
the  thousands  and  thousands  of  people  congregated  upon  this 
Temple  Block  today,  attending  this  General  Conference  of  the 
Church,  are  here  as  a  result  of  those  keys  given  by  Moses  in  the 
Kirtland  temple  on  that  memorable  3rd  of  April.  On  the  same  day, 
Elijah  the  prophet,  who  was  taken  up  to  heaven  without  tasting 
death,  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith  and  gave  unto  him  the  keys  for 
turning  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children  and  the  hearts  of 
the  children  to  their  fathers.  And  as  a  result  of  the  restoration  of 
these  keys  we  witness  today  the  work  going  on  in  the  Temple  for 
the  salvation  of  not  only  ourselves  but  for  our  ancestors  who  have 
passed  away  without  a  knowledge  of  the  true  plan  of  salvation.  It 
has  brought  love  into  our  hearts  for  our  progenitors  and  we  hope 
the  children  after  us  will  do  their  duty  in  continuing  this  great 
vicarious  work. 

The  visits  to  the  earth  of  these  holy  beings  and  the  restora- 
tion of  the  keys  of  the  Priesthood  is  the  origin  of  "Mormonism,"  the 
beginning  of  it.   It  is  a  known  fact  that  water  never  rises  above  its 


Elder  andrew  jeMson 


source.  All  our  mountain  streams  rise  high  up  in  the  mountains 
and  hills  and  they  continue  to  run  down  grade,  forming  streams 
and  rivers ;  thus  a  creek  or  river  does  not  rise  above  its  source.  So 
with  "Mormonism" ;  it  must  be  traced  to  its  source.  The  origin  of 
Mormonism  is  revelation  from  heaven.  God  has  spoken  from  his 
heavenly  abode  and  restored  unto  the  earth  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  with  its  Priesthood  and  authority.  Based  on  such  a  begin- 
ning, we  can  boldly  say  that  the  doctrines  taught  by  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  are  true  and  stand  out  in  great 
contrast  with  doctrines  taught  by  men.  Joseph  Smith  was  not  per- 
mitted to  "join  the  sects  of  the  day  because  the  preachers  of  these 
sects  taught  for  doctrines  the  commandments  of  men ;  they  honored 
God  with  their  lips,  while  their  hearts  wer-e  far  away  from  him; 
they  had  a  form  of  goldiness,  but  denied  the  power  thereof.  But 
the  Gospel  which  the  Latter-day  Saints  advocate  and  which  has 
brought  such  grand  and  glorious  results  is  different.  It  has  also 
brought  into  the  world  some  of  the  best  men  and  women  that  can 
be  found  anywhere  on  God's  footstool.  These  indeed  are  the  fruits 
of  Mormonism,  or  the  restored  Gospel  of  Christ.  If  it  had  not  been 
for  the  divine  origin  of  Mormonism,  and  the  truths  revealed  to  us 
from  heaven — not  by  the  cunning  craftiness  of  men  but  revealed  by 
God  himself — our  success  as  a  Church  would  have  been  altogether 
different.  Christ  himself  revealed  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  in 
our  day  his  own  religion,  and  that  is  why  we  claim  that  we  possess 
Christ's  Christianity — not  a  German-  Christianity,  not  an  American 
Christianity,  not  an  English  or  Dutch  Christianity,  but  Christ's  own 
Christianity,  which  in  its  nature  is  today  similar  to  the  doctrines 
advocated  by  the  Savior  in  that  grand  and  glorious  Sermon  on 
the  Mount  referred  to  by  a  former  speaker. 

During  my  late  sojourn  in  the  East  it  was  my  privilege  to 
travel  over  the  Pioneer  trial.  I  passed  over  it  the  first  time  fifty- 
nine  years  ago,  as  a  little  white-haired  Danish  boy  traveling  with 
ox  teams,  and  to  follow  the  same  trail  now  and  to  see  Chimney 
Rock  and  many  other  important  and  interesting  points  of  interest 
made  by  heart  rejoice  and  reminded  me  of  the  days  of  my  youth. 
I  was  pleased  to  think  that  I,  who  in  1866,  walked  all  the  way  from 
the  Missouri  River  to  Salt  Lake  City  as  a  lad,  now  had  the  oppor- 
tunity to  go  over  the  same  trail  in  an  automobile  as  one  of  the 
Church  historians,  for  the  purpose  of  locating  that  trail  so  accu- 
rately that  our  children  and  all  generations  to  come  may  know  what 
is  meant  by  the  old  "Mormon  Trail,"  and  to  a  certain  extent  be 
made  to  understand  how  their  fathers  and  mothers,  grandfathers 
and  grandmothers,  made  sacrifices  for  the  Gospel's  sake.  Many  of 
these  weary  pilgrims  rest  in  unknown  graves.  There  is  scarcely 
a  mile  between  Nauvoo,  Illinois,  and  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  which 
would  not  have  been  marked  by  graves  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
who  fell  as  martyrs  by  the  wayside,  if  a  knowledge  of  their  resting 
places  had  been  preserved. 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


There  have  been  several  classes  of  martyrs  in  this  Church. 
Those  who  have  been  put  to  death  violently  by  mobs  number  about 
fifty,  and  those  who  have  died  in  the  missionary  field,  like  Brother 
Abel  Evans'  father,  number  about  four  hundred ;  these  of  the  latter 
class  sacrificed  their  lives  while  traveling  in  the  different  mission- 
ary fields  preaching  the  gospel.  And  then  more  numerous  than 
any  other  class  of  martyrs  are  those  hundreds — yes,  thousands — 
who  died  on  the  journey  from  Nauvoo  to  the  west  or  later  as  emi- 
grants from  Europe  died  on  the  voyage  across  the  ocean,  on  the 
passage  up  the  Mississippi  and  Missouri  rivers  ,and  on  the  plains 
while  trying  to  reach  the  homes  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  the 
Rocky  mountains. 

I  visited  Nauvoo^beautiful  Nauvoo  as  it  once  was — with  its 
old  "Mormon"  cemetery.  It  made  me  think  of  Palestine  which 
once  was  a  land  flowing  with  milk  and  honey,  figuratively  speaking, 
but  the  people  in  that  country  transgressed  the  laws,  changed  the 
ordinances,  and  broke  the  everlasting  covenant,  and  brought  the 
whole  country  under  a  curse.  Thus,  when  I  visited  Palestine,  many 
years  ago,  I  could  scarcely  see  anything  interesting  there  except 
reminders  of  the  good  old  times  that  once  were  but  are  no  more. 
The  curse  of  the  Almighty  has  rested  upon  that  land  ever  since 
the  day  of  Isaiah,  of  which  its  present  barrenness  amply  testifies, 
though  some  changes  for  the  better  may  have  taken  place  of  late 
years  since  General  Allenby  of  the  British  forces  took  possession  of 
the  country. 

When  I  saw  Nauvoo,  once  a  beautiful  city,  with  a  great  temple 
costing  a  million  dollars — a  city  that  covered  almost  the  whole  of 
the  peninsular  on  which  it  was  built,  I  felt  sad  to  witness  its  desola- 
tion. Between  New  Orleans  and  the  twin  cities  (St.  Paul  and 
Minneapolis)  there  is  not  a  more  beautiful  place  for  the  location 
of  a  city  than  Nauvoo.  But  what  is  Nauvoo  today?  A  wilderness! 
I  crossed  the  great  Mississippi  river,  from  Montrose  to  Nauvoo 
(which  in  years  gone  by  had  been  crossed  by  so  many  of  our 
people).  I  wanted  to  see  Nauvoo  once  more,  though  I  had  seen  it 
before ;  but  on  this,  my  last  visit,  I  took  occasion  to  visit  certain 
places  in  and  around  Nauvoo  that  I  never  visited  before.  On  my 
first  approach  to  it,  I  wondered  where  the  city  was,  for  I  wandered 
through  the  weed-covered  streets,  one  after  another,  and  only  here 
and  there  saw  a  human  habitation  surrounded  by  weeds.  On  the 
banks  of  the  river,  where  one  of  the  old  stone  houses  stood  as  early 
as  1839,  I  encountered  thousands  of  vicious  birds  which  swarmed 
around  my  head  apparently  with  evil  intent.  And  besides  these 
there  were  millions  and  millions  of  flies — "Mormon"  flies,  they  call 
them — though  I  think  the  "Mormons"  had  nothing  to  do  with  origi- 
nating them.  The  people  from  the  surrounding  country  do  not  like 
to  visit  Nauvoo  for  fear  of  being  eaten  up  by  flies,  ravens  and  other 
vicious  birds  which  circle  around  the  visitor  where  there  was  once 
a  high  grade  of  civilization.    Nauvoo,  the  Beautiful,  is  now  a  little 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON 


55 


insignificant  village.  I  came  to  the  conclusion  that  a  curse  had 
indeed  rested  upon  the  place  ever  since  the  Saints  were  driven  from 
there  by  wicked,  bloodthirsty  mobs  in  the  memorable  year  of  1846. 
Some  of  the  best  houses  in  Nauvoo  today  are  those  erected  by  our 
people  eighty  years  ago,  among  them  the  old  residences  of  Brigham 
Young,  Heber  C.  Kimball,  John  Taylor,  Parley  P.  Pratt,  Orson 
Pratt,  Edward  Hunter,  and  a  score  of  others.  Only  a  few  houses 
of  any  consequence  have  been  erected  since  that  time.  The  beauti- 
ful Nauvoo  temple  is  no  more ;  not  one  stone  is  left  upon  another 
of  that  grand  structure  in  which  so  many  of  the  faithful  Saints 
received  their  blessings  before  starting  for  the  mountains. 

The  "Jack  'Mormons',"  who  succeeded  the  Saints  in  Nauvoo 
came  into  possession  of  the  city  for  almost  nothing.  The  Icarians, 
a  French  community,  came  next  and  tried  to  turn  the  temple  into 
an  academy,  but  did  not  succeed.  They  split  up  almost  entirely 
as  an  organized  community  while  endeavoring  to  make  Nauvoo 
their  home.  Then  finally  came  a  German  population,  the  present 
inhabitants  of  Nauvoo.  Germans  are  good  pioneers,  usually,  and 
have  made  good  in  the  United  States ;  they  are  generally  classed 
among  the  best  settlers  and  most  industrious  citizens  who  have 
come  across  the  Atlantic  to  America,  but  even  they  cannot  flourish 
in  Nauvoo.  The  blood  of  the  prophets  which  was  shed  there,  and 
many  others  of  the  Saints  who  were  mobbed  and  killed  by  their 
enemies  is  crying  from  the  earth  against  their  murderers  and  plun- 
derers. The  Lord  was  vexed  because  of  these  evil  deeds  and  has 
caused  a  blight  to  rest  heavily  upon  the  country.  The  same  thing 
is  true,  more  or  less,  of  Far  West,  the  country  around  Haun's  Mill, 
and  the  Crooked  river  country,  in  Missouri,  where  the  Latter-day 
Saints  Once  lived  and  prospered. 

In  following  the  Pioneer  trail  from  Nauvoo  on  the  Mississippi 
river  I  visited  Sugar  Creek,  where  a  number  of  women  gave  birth 
to  children  prematurely  through  being  exposed  to  the  inclemencies 
of  the  weather.  Richardson's  Point,  where  a  number  of  our  people 
lie  buried.  Chariton  River,  so  well  known  to  our  people  who 
crossed  the  plains  in  1846  and  following  years,  and  Garden  Grove, 
founded  by  the  Saints  in  1846,  where  many  of  our  people  lie  buried 
in  a  "cow  yard."  This  made  my  heart  bleed.  At  Mt.  Pisgah,  Iowa,  a 
monument  has  been, erected  marking  the  graves  of  some  250  of  our 
martyrs,  who  fell  by  the  wayside  through  being  driven  away  from 
Nauvoo  in  the  dead  of  winter,  these,  exiles  suffering  as  only  few 
people  have  suffered  in  this  western  land. 

Continuing  my  journey  I  crossed  the  Missouri  river  to  old 
Florence,  or  Winter-Quarters,  Nebraska  and  there  visited  the  old 
"Mormon"  graveyard.  What  did  I  find  there?  A  lonely  spot  where 
some  six  hundred  Latter-day  Saints  lie  buried  under  the  sod — men, 
women  and  children,  who  could  not  stand  the  hardships  of  the 
journey  any  longer.  Some  of  these  martyrs  were  exiles  from  Nau- 
voo, while  others  had  come  up  the  Mississippi  and  Missouri  rivers 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


from  the  European  countries.  They  took  sick  and  died  with  cholera 
and  other  diseases,  brought  about  by  over  exertion  and  privitations, 
and  their  bones  are  resting  in  the  cemetery  at  Florence  to  this  day, 
waiting  for  that  glorious  resurrection  which  awaits  God's  faithful 
sons  and  daughters. 

Now,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  the  origin  and  foundation  of 
"Mormonism"  is  of  such  a  nature  that  we  can  safely  build  upon  it. 
Let  us  then  be  true  to  our  God  and  to  the  gospel  of  Christ,  true  to 
our  parents,  to  the  pioneers  of  Utah  and  to  the  faithful  Saints  who 
died  by  the  wayside.  Let  us  ever  remember  that  the  origin  of 
"Mormonism"  is  revelation  from  God,  and  that  it  is  not  a  temporary 
organization,  but  rather  what  the  late  Patriarch  John  R.  Murdock 
of  Beaver,  once  said,  when  he  referred  to  "Mormonism"  as  "the 
greatest  thing  a-going."  Let  us  be  true  to  our  fathers'  God  and  to 
every  truth  that  we  have  espoused,  and  let  us  realize  that  we  have 
within  our  reach  the  obtaining  of  a  testimony,  if  we  do  not  already 
possess  it,  to  the  effect  that  God  is  the  founder  of  this  work,  that 
it  is  organized  in  the  right  way,  and  that  it  is  expected  of  us  to 
become  the  salt  of  the  earth  and  to  be  a  light  and  an  example  to  all 
the  world.  Christ,  addressing  his  disciples  on  the  Mount  said,  "Ye 
are  the  light  of  the  world  *  *  *  Neither  do  men  light  a  candle  and 
put  it  under  a  bushel,  but  on  a  candlestick ;  and  it  giveth  light  unto 
all  that  are  in  the  house.  Let  your  light  so  shine  before  men,  that 
they  may  see  your  good  works,  and  glorify  your  Father  which  is 
in  heaven."  This  passage  of  scripture  is  also  applicable  to  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  May  God  bless  you,  one  and  all;  may  we  be  true  to 
our  God,  who  is  our  fathers'  God,  true  to  our  religion  which  is  true 
Christianity,  and  true  to  every  obligation  which  we  have  taken  upon 
ourselves,  and  may  we  also  teach  our  children  to  walk  in  the  paths 
of  righteousness,  I  sincerely  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

The  quartet  sang,  "What  manner  of  man  is  this?"  ' 

ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  may  be  able 
to  crowd  into  the  brief  ten  minutes  left,  some  few  of  the  thoughts 
that  have  been  in  my  mind  this  morning.  I  have  listened  very  at- 
tentively to  all  that  has  been  said,  and  bear  witness  to  its  truthful- 
ness. I  have  been  charmed  by  the  beautiful  singing  of  this  session 
and  particularly  by  this  last  rendition,  and  truly,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  we  might  marvel  and  exclaim,  "What  manner  of  man  was 
this  that  has  wrought  so  much  in  the  world  and  that  we  believe  is 
to  do  so  much  in  the  future  in  shaping  the  destinies  and  bringing 
about  the  well-being  and  the  salvation  of  our  Father's  children,  even 
all  that  have  ever  lived  upon  this  earth!"    My  thoughts  have  cen- 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


57 


tered  upon  him  and  his  great  mission  and  the  great  faith  that  we 
should  have  in  him.  I  will  read  to  you  from  our  Articles  of  Faith : 
"We  believe  that  through  the  atonement  of  Christ,  all  mankind  may 
be  saved,  by  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel. 
We  believe  that  the  first  principles  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel 
are :  first,  Faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  ..."  I  will  leave  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  follow  out  the  quotations  and  read  what 
the  others  are,  but  I  wish  to  dwell  particularly  this  morning  upon 
our  belief  that  underlying  all  in  this  Church  stands  first  and  fore- 
most faith  in  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ.  It  has  been  the 
moving  power  to  all  action  -in  all  ages  of  the  world. 

I  would  like  to  read  to  you  here  what  Paul  says  in  regard  to 
faith: 

"Now  faith  is  the  substance  of  things  hoped  for,  the  evidence  of  things 
not  seen. 

"For  by  it  the  elders  obtained  a  good  report. 

"Through  faith  we  understand  that  the  worlds  were  framed  by  the 
word  of  God,  so  that  things  which  are  seen  were  not  made  of  things  which 
do  appear. 

"By  faith  Abel  offered  unto  God  a  more  excellent  sacrifice  than  Cain, 
by  which  he  obtained  witness  that  he  was  righteous,  God  testifying  of  his 
gifts:  and  by  it  he  being  dead  yet  speaketh. 

"By  faith  Enoch  was  translated  that  he  should  not  see  death;  and  was 
not  found,  because  God  had  translated  him:  for  before  his  translation  he 
had  this  testimony,  that  he  pleased  Qod. 

"But  without  faith,  it  is  impossible  to  please  him:  for  he  that  cometh  to 
God  must  believe  that  he  is,  and  that  he  is  a  rewarder  of  them  that  dili- 
.  gently  seek  him." 

I  commend  to  your  perusal,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  Hebrews 
11 ;  that  shows  to  us  to  be  a  fact  what  I  have  asserted,  that  all  the 
great  and  mighty  works  of  the  prophets  and  apostles  and  the  great 
men  of  old  were  guided  and  were  wrought  by  faith.  By  faith  they 
knew  of  a  surety  their  status  before  God,  they  were  able  to  serve 
him,  they  were  able  to  keep  his  commandments.  By  faith  Daniel 
was  able  to  live  in  harmony  with  the  teachings  of  his  Israelitish 
parentage  even  in  Babylon  and  become  a  mighty  factor  in  shaping 
the  destinies  of  that  great  nation  and  of  his  own  people.  And 
Moses  was  guided  by  faith.  Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob,  and  all 
the  old  worthies  were  guided  by  faith,  and  they  did  all  they  did  by 
faith.  It  was  by  faith  that  Moses  smote  the  Red  Sea  and  its  waters 
rolled  back  and  the  Children  of  Israel  passed  through  dry-shod.  It 
was  by  faith  that  they  were  not  consumed  by  famine  in  the  desert, 
but  God  sent  them  daily  that  which  was  necessary  to  sustain  them 
and  see  them  through  their  years  of  pilgrimage. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  in  this  day  reference  has  been  made  to 
the  origin  of  this  Church  and  its  accomplishments  and  its  priva- 
tions and  sufferings  and  persecutions  that  have  been  heaped  upon 
it.  What  has  been  the  underlying  factor  to  all  this  that  has  been 
done  in  this  dispensation  in  which  we  live  ?  By  faith  Joseph  Smith, 
a  mere  boy,  was  able  to  bring  down  to  earth  the  revelations  of 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Almighty  God  for  the  redemption  of  his  people,  for  the  establish- 
ment of  righteousness.  By  faith  he  saw  the  Father  and  he  saw  the 
Son,  and  he  learned  and  has  proclaimed  to  the  world  that  we  are  in 
very  deed  in  the  image  of  our  Maker.  By  faith  he  learned  his  status 
before  the  Lord  and  received  further  revelation  through  the  angel 
Moroni.  By  faith  he  learned  of  all  the  restoration  that  was  to  be 
and  was  the  instrument  by  which  it  was  consummated  in  the  earth. 
By  faith  he  found  the  record  of  the  ancient  people  who  inhabited 
this  land,  and  by  faith  he  translated  it  and  brought  forth  a  new  wit- 
ness for  God  in  this  day  and  age  in  which  we  live.  By  faith  he  was 
able  to  establish  the  Church  and  perfect  this  wonderful  organiza- 
tion of  which  has  been  spoken  today.  And  by  faith  it  has  continued 
on  down  to  the  very  moment  of  time  in  which  we  live.  By  faith 
he  and  his  people  were  able  to  withstand  the  trials  and  persecu- 
tions heaped  upon  them,  for  they  saw,  over  and  above  and  beyond, 
Christ;  and  they  knew ihe  was  a  reality.  They  had  faith  in  him  as 
the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  through  whom  should 
be  consummated  the  salvation  of  men  here  upon  the  earth.  It  was 
faith  that  made  it  possible  for  Joseph  Smith  to  turn  back  and  go  to 
his  certain  martyrdom — for  he  knew  where  he  was  going;  he  said 
he  was  going  like  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter.  But  by  faith  he  went 
and  sealed  his  testimony  with  his  blood. 

Bringing  it  down  to  the  present  day,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  it 
is  faith  that  is  taking  your  boys  into  the  world  today  to  proclaim 
this  same  truth  to  the  untold  millions  of  our  Father's  children  who 
are  yet  in  darkness.  It  is  by  faith  that  the  fathers  and  mothers 
sustain  them  with  means  to  pursue  their  labors  in  the  world. 

I  marvel,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  when  we  contemplate  what 
a  wonderful  thing  this  faith  is.  The  point  I  want  to  get  to  is  this. 
We  are  living  in  a  day  and  age  and  hour  when  all  the  powers  of 
the  adversary  are  combining  to  destroy  faith  in  the  hearts  of  men. 
Within  the  churches  and  without  the  churches,  every  device  and 
every  means  that  can  be  brought  to  bear  is  being  brought  to  bear 
to  destroy  faith  in  the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  from  the  pulpits 
of  the  world  men  who  profess  to  be  Christian  ministers  are  doubt- 
ing and  boohooing  the  belief  that  Jesus  Christ  was  in  very  deed  the 
Son  of  God.  They  are  endeavoring  by  all  means  to  discredit  his 
origin  as  the  Son  of  our  Almighty  Father.  And  faith  is  being  at- 
tacked from  every  standpoint — by  immortality,  by  dishonesty,  by 
unchastity — the  young  people,  one  after  another,  are  coming  to  a 
point  in  many  instances  where  they  are  face  to  face  with  the  issue, 
"Is  there  anything  in  this  or  not?"  And  their  faith  is  being  assailed, 
their  faith  is  being  attacked. 

There  were  some  O's  referred  to  here  today,  and  the  last  par- 
ticularly struck  my  attention,  "Opportunity  and  obligation"  that 
rests  upon  us  today  in  Israel.  O  my  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  by 
every  means  within  our  power  kindle,  if  needs  be,  and  if  it  is  there, 
keep  alive,  the  faith  of  our  young  men  and  women.    Do  not  let  it 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


59 


be  destroyed ;  do  not  let  it  be  overcome  by  any  sort  of  teaching 
which  may  be  going  around  today.  Have  in  your  family  circles 
prayer  daily  together,  that  they  may  witness  the  exercise  of  faith 
in  prayer,  that  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  may  be  upon  your  house- 
holds. Teach  your  children  the  simple  principles  of  the  gospel  as 
they  have  been  received  through  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ, 
for  in  nothing  else  is  there  safety  in  the  world  today.  O  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  what  the  steering  gear  is  to  the  automobile 
today,  is  faith  in  the  life  of  young  men  and  women.  We  are  going 
at  a  headlong  pitch.  And  did  it  ever  occur  to  you  what  happens 
to  an  automobile  when  the  steering  gear  is  broken  or  defective  and 
ceases  to  operate?  Always,  with  that  irresponsible  speed  with 
which  the  machine  flies,  it  goes  on  to  certain  destruction.  Did  any 
of  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  ever  lie  in  a  trough  of  the  sea,  in  a 
little  vessel,  with  both  rudder  and  sail  gone?  I  have,  for  six  hours, 
when  the  waves  were  slopping  over  everywhere.  And  I  have 
thought  that  what  the  rudder  or  sail  was  to  that  little  vessel — that 
would  have  saved  us,  and  did  ultimately  when  we  got  them  into 
operation — so  would  be  faith  in  Jesus  Christ  in  the  life  of  every 
young  man.  Did  any  young  man,  boy  of  yours  or  otherwise,  ever 
come  to  you  and  show  you  with  the  look  in  his  eye  and  the  anguish 
in  his  soul,  when  he  came  asking,  "Is  there  anything  to  this  or  not?" 
and  you  saw  that  somebody  in  some  insidious,  dastardly  way  had 
trifled  with,  and  partly  destroyed  the  faith  in  that  young  man's 
life?  If  you  ever  did,  my  brethren,  you  saw  an  object  of  pity,  an 
object  of  sorrow,  and  it  has  been  my  good  fortune  and  good  pleas- 
ure to  assist  to  kindle  again  and  keep  alive  the  faith  in  many  young 
men,  that  has  seemed  to  have  been  lost.  And  in  many  of  them  their 
faith  has  been  attacked  in  associations  here  at  home.  I  have  been 
through  sorrows  in  my  life;  I  have  laid  parents,  brothers  and 
sisters  and  children  away,  and  only  God  knows  how  I  have  loved 
them !  I  wonder  sometimes  if  I  love  more  intently  than  some  peo- 
ple. It  seems  that  my  love  for  them  makes  me  suffer,  and  the  more 
I  suffer  the  more  I  love  them.  I  would  rather  they  would  all  go 
and  I  could  lay  them  away,  with  faith  in  God,  than  to  have  one  of 
them  become  the  richest  man  or  the  greatest  ruler  or  the  greatest  in- 
tellectual man  but  without  faith ;  for  without  faith  he  is  without 
anchor,  and  without  faith  he  has  nothing  to  keep  him  in  the  path 
of  duty,  that  makes  for  happiness,  not  only  in  the  great  hereafter, 
but  makes  for  happiness  and  well-being  here  in  this  life  in  which 
we  live.  So  that  now  then,  when  faith  is  being  attacked  in  all  sects 
and  denominations  and  through  all  the  schools,  through  the  teach- 
ings of  dubious  science,  science  that  after  all  is  only  a  theory ;  hold 
to  the  faith  that  our  fathers  have  cherished,  I  say,  hold  to  the  faith 
in  Jesus  Christ  that  is  the  foundation  rock  upon  which  we  can 
surely  build  for  a  salvation  in  our  Father's  kingdom!  The  Lord 
help  you  to  do  so,  the  Lord  bless  the  youth  of  Zion  and  keep  them 
in  the  faith  of  their  fathers,  and  keep  us  all,  that  we  may  work  out 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


our  salvation  in  his  presence,  is  my  humble  prayer,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Guide  us,  O  thou  great  Jehovah." 
Benediction,  Elder  Arthur  F.  Barnes,  of  Salt  Lake  City. 

SECOND  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

A  second  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  Sunday 
afternoon,  at  2  o'clock,  October  4.  Elder  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  of 
the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  California  mission, 
presided. 

The  singing  was  directed  by  Professor  George  H.  Durham  of  the 
L.  D.  S.  University,  Salt  Lake  City.  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper,  officiated 
as  organist. 

The  male  chorus  of  the  L.  D.  S.  University  sang,  "God  bless  our 
mountain  home,"  after  which  the  chorus  and  congregation  sang,  "We 
thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet."  , 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  William  C.  Parkinson,  former  presi- 
dent of  Hyrum  stake. 

The  L.  D.  S.  University  mixed  chorus  sang,  "Still,  still,  with  thee, 
my  God." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  R.  SHEPHERD 

President  of  the  Logan  Temple 

I  feel  very  humble,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  this  afternoon 
in  being  asked  to  address  you  in  this  gathering.  I  sincerely  ask 
that  you  may  give  me  your  faith  and  prayers,  that  I  may  enjoy  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  while  attempting  to  address  you. 

One  of  our  Articles  of  Faith  reads,  "We  believe  all  that  God 
has  revealed,  all  that  he  does  now  reveal,  and  we  believe  that  he 
will  yet  reveal  many  great  and  important  things  pertaining  to  the 
Kingdom  of  God."  This  principle  of  continued  revelation  is  one  of 
the  prominent  characteristics  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  It  is  distinctive,  for  while  there  are  many  good 
Christian  people  in  the  world  who  put  great  confidence  and  faith 
in  the  Scriptures,  as  they  have  been  given  to  us  in  the  Bible,  yet 
a  large  proportion  of  them  deny  that  God  has  communicated  with 
his  people  since  the  days  of  the  Saints  of  which  the  Bible  speaks, 
and  believe  that  there  are  none  now  who  receive  revelations  from 
God  the  eternal  Father,  but  that  revelation  has  ceased  and  that  we 
have  all  that  is  sufficient  for  our  guidance  in  life  contained  in  the 
Scriptures  as  they  are  bound  in  this  volume  called  the  Holy  Bible. 
Is  it  any  wonder,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  those  who  reject 
continued  revelation  should  find  among  the  many  honest  Christian 
people  in  the  world  such  differing  views  concerning  God  and  his 


ELDER  JOSEPH  R.  SHEPHERD 


61 


will  concerning  us  ?  As  we  study  the  condition  of  Christian  people 
today  and  note  the  differing  views  as  expressed  by  their  leading 
men,  men  who  claim  to  be  the  teachers  of  the  word  of  God  to  the 
people,  noting  the  contention  that  exists,  the  widely  varying  views 
regarding  God  and  his  will,  is  it  any  wonder,  I  say,  when  they  by 
their  own  free  will  and  choice  deny  that  God  can  speak  to  them 
today  and  that  he  has  authorized  servants  to  speak  in  the  name  of 
God  and  give  his  word  concerning  these  things  of  which  I  have 
spoken  ? 

Wherever  the  spirit  of  revelation  exists  there  will  be  harmony, 
peace,  and  contentment,  but  where  there  is  no  revelation  from  God 
and  where  people  will  not  accept  revelation  from  God,  you  will  find 
discord,  discontent,  and  contention.  One  of  the  peculiar  things 
that  has  been  manifested  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  from  the  beginning  up  to  the  present  time,  has  been 
the  unanimity  in  which  the  people  find  themselves.  It  is  seldom 
that  you  find  anyone  contending  concerning  the  doctrine  of  the 
Church.  It  is  seldom  that  you  find  anyone  who  is  disobedient  to 
the  authority  of  the  Church.  The  people  are  noted  as  being  a  united 
people.  In  fact,  a  great  many  people  outside  of  the  Church  have 
rather  felt  to  find  fault  with  the  "Mormon"  people,  as  they  call 
them,  because  of  the  unity  that  exists  among  them.  They  com- 
plained for  the  reason  that  the  people  were  always  willing  to  follow 
their  leaders  and  to  do  as  they  were  told.  Rather  a  strange  indict- 
ment to  be  brought  against  the  people  of  God !  And  what  is  the 
secret  of  the  unity  of  the  people,  my  brothers  and  sisters?  It  is  that 
they  are  actuated  by  the  spirit  of  revelation,  through  its  President 
and  those  who  are  sustained  as  prophets,  seers,  and  revelators,  but 
the  membership  of  the  Church  is  entitled  to  revelation  also.  The 
members  as  individual  members  are  not  entitled  to  revelation  for 
the  Church  as  an  organized  body,  but  the  same  spirit  of  revelation 
may  be  enjoyed  by  them  for  their  own  use,  for  their  own  blessing, 
and  for  their  own  support.  Every  man  who  stands  at  the  head  of 
a  household  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  is  entitled  to  revelation 
for  that  family: — not  for  somebody  else's  family.  Every  member  of 
the  Church  is  entitled  to  revelation  for  his  or  her  guidance,  though 
not  for  the  guidance  of  any  one  else.  Every  bishop  is  entitled  to 
revelation  for  the  direction  of  the  affairs  of  the  ward  over  which  he 
presides,  and  so  forth ;  every  person  according  to  his  position ;  but 
there  is  not  a  member  of  the  Church  who  is  not  entitled  to  the 
principle  of  revelation,  and  upon  that  principle  does  the  strength 
of  this  Church  stand,  and  so  long  as  we  continue  to  live  in  such  a 
way  as  to  receive  revelation,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  there  never 
will  be  discord  or  disunity,  because  if  was  upon  this  very  principle 
that  the  Lord  founded  his  Church. 

Let  a  man  stand  up  here  before  you  and  teach  a  false  doctrine, 
something  that  is  not  true,  something  that  is  in  opposition  to  the 
revealed  word  of  God,  and  there  is  not  one  in  the  congregation  but 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


may  detect  it,  if  he  or  she  is  in  possession  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  and 
the  testimony  of  Jesus  which  is  the  spirit  of  revelation.  Occa- 
sionally someone  will  say  something — not  very  often ;  very  seldom 
have  I  heard  any  one  from  the  stand  speak  anything  that  was  not 
perfectly  orthodox,  but  occasionally  there  has  been  something  a 
little  of  what  we  might  call  a  little  off-color,  and  immediately  you 
would  see  everybody  pretty  nearly  in  the  congregation  looking 
toward  one  another.  They  can  detect  it  in  a  moment.  Why?  Be- 
cause they  have  the  spirit  of  revelation  and  they  can  detect  error, 
and  they  cannot  be  deceived  in  doctrine. 

Now,  how  may  we  have  this  spirit  of  revelation,  my  brethren 
and  sisters?  We  may  have  it  as  a  right  by  the  possession  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  And  how  may  we  receive  the  Holy  Ghost?  By  first 
having  faith  in  God  and  in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  gospel  of 
the  Lord  as  he  has  revealed  it  unto  us :  repentance  of  our  sins, 
being  baptized  in  water  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  receiving  the 
laying  on  of  hands  by  one  having  authority  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  And  this  Holy  Ghost  is  the  power  and  the  means  by  which 
we  may  have  constant  revelation. 

There  are  some  people,  indeed  there  are  a  great  many,  in  the 
world,  who  will  not  accept  anything  as  a  truth  except  it  can  be  dem- 
onstrated to  them  through  the  five  senses.  It  has  to  be  proved  to 
them  by  the  wisdom  and  the  skill  of  men,  and  if  that  cannot  be 
done,  they  reject  it.  We  are  taught  in  the  Scriptures  that  no  man 
can  say  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  except  by  the  Holy  Ghost.  Is  it 
any  wonder  that  we  find  the  condition  existing  in  the  world  today, 
when  they  will  not  accept  the  plan  of  salvation  as  laid  down  by  the 
Savior  himself  ?  On  the  day  of  Pentecost,  when  Peter,  preaching 
to  the  vast  throngs,  declared  unto  them  the  gospel,  and  the  condi- 
tion in  which  the  people  found  themselves  at  that  time,  convicted 
them  in  their  hearts  and  they  cried  out,  "Men  and  brethren,  what 
shall  we  do  to  be  saved?"  They  were  told  directly  what  they  should 
do.  They  all  believed  or  they  would  not  have  been  convicted  in 
their  hearts,  but  as  the  next  thing,  "Repent  of  your  sins,  and  be  bap- 
tized for  the  remission  of  sins,"  and  then  they  would  receive  the 
Holy  Ghost.  It  is  essential,  my  brethren  and  my  sisters,  that  we 
shall  have  the  Holy  Ghost  as  our  companion  in  order  that  we 
shall  not  be  deceived  and  misdirected  and  that  we  may  always  know 
the  truth  from  error.  A  thorough  Latter-day  Saint  does  not  require 
some  truth  that  God  has  revealed  to  be  demonstrated  by  the  skill 
and  wisdom  of  men.  He  does  not  have  to  have  it  proved ;  he  knows 
it.  And  how  does  he  know  it?  By  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
Upon  one  occasion  Jesus,  in  talking  to  those  around  him,  said, 
"Who  do  men  say  that  I,  the  Son  of  man,  am?"  "O,  some  say  this 
and  some  say  that;  some  say  that  you  are  John  the  Baptist  risen 
from  the  dead,  or  one  of  the  old  prophets  come  again."  "But  who 
say  ye  that  I  am?"  What  was  the  answer?  "Thou  art  Christ,  the 
Son  of  the  living  God."  There  was  no  hesitancy  in  that  answer ;  it 


ELDER  JOSEPH  R.  SHEPHERD 


63 


was  positive  and  to  the  point.  "Thou  art  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
living  God,"  said  Peter,  in  answering.  "Blessed  art  thou,  Simon 
Bar-jona;  for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed  it  unto  thee,  but 
my  Father  who  is  in  heaven.  And  I  say  unto  thee,  That  thou  art 
Peter,  and  upon  this  rock  I  will  build  my  church. 'r  Now,  you  know 
there  has  been  a  great  deal  of  contention  as  to  what  was  meant  by 
that.  There  is  a  large  body  that  believes  that  it  meant  that  the 
church  was  built  upon  Peter,  but  that  was  not  it  at  all.  It  was 
that  spirit  of  revelation  that  came  from  God  to  Peter,  that  made 
him  say  without  any  hesitancy,  "Thou  art  Christ,  the  son  of  the 
living  God."  That  is  the  rock  upon  which  the  Church  is  built.  It  is 
upon  that  assurance,  that  testimony,  that  witness,  that  spirit  of 
revelation  that  comes  from  God  directly  to  the  individual.  And 
that  is  the  rock  upon  which  this  Church  is  built,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  the  testimonies  of  our  brethren 
and  sisters  that  are  given  in  our  fast  meetings  give  evidence  of  the 
truthfulness  of  that  statement,  for  the  reason  that  that  testimony, 
though  it  comes  not  through  the  teachings  and  wisdom  and  knowl- 
edge of  men  nor  the  scientific  learning  of  the  world,  comes  unadul- 
terated as  the  mind  and  will  of  God  to  the  conviction  of  the  person 
bearing  testimony,  and  they  rise  up  and  say,  "I  know  that  this  is 
the  work  of  God,  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son,  and 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God."  Now,  that  is  a  knowl- 
edge that  never  can  be  transferred  from  one  man  to  another  by 
that  man's  wisdom  or  knowledge;  it  can  only  come  as  the  knowl- 
edge came  to  Peter,  that  Jesus  Christ  was  the  Son  of  God. 

We  have  as  a  people  absolutely  no  fear  of  any  discovery  of 
scientific  men.  Men,  under  the  inspiration  of  God,  are  beginning 
to  find  out  little  by  little  something  that  God  has  known  for  ages, 
but  God  may  and  does  reveal  truths  that  men  have  not  vet  under- 
stood. And  simply  because  we  or  men  cannot  understand  them  is 
no  justification  why  they  should  be  rejected.  Latter-day  Saints 
under  the  spirit  of  revelation,  may  know  whether  Jesus  Christ  is 
verily  the  Son  of  God  or  not.  No  man  can  prove  it  that  I  know  of 
by  any  of  his  learning  or  anything  that  he  has  found  out.  Unless 
we  have  faith  in  God,  we  cannot  please  him.  Without  faith  it  is 
impossible  to  please  God.  We  must  exercise  faith,  and  the  prin- 
ciple of  faith,  in  and  of  itself,  is  a  thing  that  is  difficult  for  some 
men  who  have  been  scientifically  trained;  because  they  have  been 
taught  to  accept  nothing  as  a  truth  except  it  can  be  demonstrated 
by  the  wisdom  and  learning  and  skill  of  men.  Above  all  of  this, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  that  blessing,  that  gift,  that  is  one  of  the 
fundamental  doctrines  of  the  Church,  the  reception  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  that  comes  through  obedience  to  the  laws  and  the  ordinances 
of  the  gospel ;  and  as  long  as  the  Latter-day  Saints  shall  be  in  pos- 
session of  that  gift,  we  need  have  no  fear  as  to  what  the  outcome  of 
this  Church  shall  be.  And  when  men  in  the  world,  who  claim  to 
be  Christians,  will  honestly  accept  of  the  gospel  of  our  Lord  and 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Savior  Jesus  Christ  and  submit  to  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel  that 
the  Lord  himself  has  prescribed,  they,  too,  may  receive  the  Holy 
Ghost  and  then  they  may  know  and  will  know  of  the  doctrine, 
whether  it  is  true  or  not — and  not  until  then.  There  have  been 
some  men,  and  probably  women,  converted,  or  at  least  becoming 
members  of  the  Church  simply  because  of  the  logic  there  was  in  it, 
because  of  the  splendid  evidences  that  are  manifested  by  the  people 
in  their  lives  and  in  their  homes.  Some  are  attracted  to  it  because 
of  the  wonderful  government  that  exists  in  the  Church,  or  because 
of  its  teachings  regarding  things  pertaining  to  every-day  life,  be- 
cause of  the  law  of  health  that  is  taught  by  the  Church,  and  for 
other  reasons,  all  good.  But  the  only  reason,  and  the  only  thing 
that  will  keep  any  man  or  woman  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  is 
to  be  in  possession  of  the  Spirit  of  God  or  the  Holy  Ghost,  through 
obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel. 

May  the  Lord  help  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  remain 
humble  and  faithful  and  true,  and  not  be  disturbed  by  what  this 
man  may  say  or  what  that  man  may  say,  or  what  this  man  may 
deny  or  what  he  may  reject.  Let  us  not  want  to  prove  that  what 
God  has  said  is  true  by  comparing  it  with  that  which  has  been  dis- 
covered by  men.  That  is  getting  the  cart  before  the  horse.  But 
let  us  have  faith  in  God  that  what  he  has  said  is  true,  so  that  we 
can  be  able  to  say  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son,  and 
that  he  did  shed  his  blood  that  all  might  come  back  unto  our  Father 
in  heaven,  that  we  do  know  that  this  work  is  true  and  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a'  prophet  of  God,  not  because  of  any  reasoning  or  any 
proofs  that  men  by  their  wisdom  and  judgment  may  give  us,  but 
because  the  Spirit  of  God,  the  Holy  Ghost,  bears  witness  to  us  in 
our  souls  that  it  is  true,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

The  L..D.  S.  male  chorus,  Earl  Martin,  Irving  Beesley  and  Wil- 
ford  Leonard,  then  sang  a  selection. 

ELDER  JOHN  P.  LILLYWHITE 

Recently  President  of  the  Netherlands  Mission 

I  am  very  happy  to  be  associated  with  you  here  this  afternoon 
and  to  be  in  attendance  at  this  conference.  I  feel  tremendously 
the  responsibility  resting  upon  one  who  is  called  to  occupy  this 
position,  to  bear  testimony  of  the  truth  and  to  give  evidence  ofc 
the  faith  that  we  have  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  but  I  rejoice 
in  the  gospel  and  in  the  many  blessings  that  I  have  received 
through  the  same  and  pray  God  that  the  few  words  that  I  may 
utter  this  afternoon  may  be  directed  through  his  Spirit  to  the  good 
of  all  those  gathered  here. 

The  throngs  that  have  come  into  the  buildings  on  these 
grounds  today  and  that  are  on  the  outside  bear  witness  to  me  of 


ELDER  JOHN  P.  LILLY  WHITE 


65 


faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  the  divine  mission  of  the  boy  who 
knelt  in  the  grove  in  Palmyra.  I  say  these  multitudes  stand  as  a 
powerful  witness  and  a  beautiful  tribute  to  "the  man  who  com- 
muned with  Jehovah,"  the  man  who  spoke  with  God  our  eternal 
Father  and  with  his  son  Jesus  Christ  in  holy  vision.  The  brethren 
and  sisters  who  have  come  from  near  and  far  to  be  present  during 
the  sessions  of  this  conference  have  come  with  a  faith  in  the 
divinity  of  "Mormonism,"  a  faith  in  the  divine  mission  of  the  Son 
of  God  and  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Otherwise  you  and  I  prob- 
ably would  not  have  come  here  to  Salt  Lake  and  been  in  attend- 
ance at  these  meetings.  Our  presence  here  is  an  evidence  and  a 
witness  unto  the  world  that  the  labors  and  the  lives  and  the  faith 
of  the  early  leaders  of  this  Church  and  the  Saints,  that  faith  that 
impelled  them  to  make  the  march  across  the  parching  plains  and 
over  these  rugged  mountains  into  these  valleys,  that  subdued  the 
wilderness  and  made  the  desert  as  it  were  to  blossom  as  a  rose,  has 
not  been  in  vain ;  that  they  did  not  live  in  vain,  but  that  their  ex- 
ample, their  faith  has  come  down  to  us ;  and  we  witness  to  them 
and  to  all  the  world  by  our  presence  on  these  occasions  that  we 
are  determined  to  carry  on  the  work  which  they  began,  until  the 
last  son  and  daughter  of  God  redeemable  has  been  redeemed.  The 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  beautiful  in  every  detail  to  the  man  and 
the  woman  who  is  willing  to  live  it  and  keep  the  commandments 
that  God  has  given  us.  There  is  no  peace  nor  comfort  nor  cheer 
nor  gladness  that  can  come  unto  the  souls  of  men  from  any  other 
source,  so  great  as  that  experienced  through  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  To  have  a  witness,  a  testimony  of  the  truth,  to  know  that 
God  lives,  to  know  that  Jesus  Christ  was  indeed  his  Son,  and  to 
know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  called  to  open  the 
work  of  this  last  dispensation,  is  greater,  more  glorious,  than  to  be 
in  possession  of  all  the  riches  and  wealth  of  the  world. 

This  gospel,  this  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder,  that  the  Lord 
said  was  about  to  come  to  pass,  is  exemplified  and  fulfilled  in  the 
thousands  who  come  here  to  receive  the  word  of  God  from  his 
living  oracles  in  the  Church  today.  The  Master,  on  one  occasion 
when  he  was  preaching  to  the  Jews  and  many  of  them  had  be- 
lieved in  his  words  and  accepted  the  truth  by  reason  of  the  miracles 
which  he  performed  among  them,  said  to  those  who  believed  in 
him,  "If  ye  continue  in  my  word,  ye  shall  know  the  truth,  and 
the  truth  shall  make  you  free."  And  the  Jews  wondered  what  he 
meant,  and  said,  "We  be  Abraham's  seed,  and  were  never  in  bond- 
age to  any  man:  how  sayest  thou,  Ye  shall  be  made  free?"  Then 
the  Master  answered,  "Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  Whosoever 
committeth  sin  is  the  servant  of  sin.  And  the  servant  abideth  not 
in  the  house  forever:  but  the  Son  abideth  ever.  If  the  Son  there- 
fore shall  make  you  free,  ye  shall  be  free  indeed."  That  is  the 
message  to  the  world  today.  This  gospel  message  that  is  carried 
to  the  nations  by  the  elders  of  this  Church  is  to  the  believing  of  the 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


world,  those  who  profess  to  believe  in  the  word  of  God.  After  it 
is  explained  to  them  and  they  accept  it,  they  are  told  in  the  words 
of  the  Master,  if  they  continue  in  this  work,  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  faithfully  keeping  his  commandments,  observing  the  laws 
and  ordinances,  they  shall  know  for  themselves  if  the  doctrine  be 
true.  Yea,  "you  shall  know  the  truth,"  is  the  promise,  "and  the 
truth  will  make  you  free."  And  that  is  the  freedom  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  enjoy  today.  It  is  not  the  freedom  of  riches,  of  wealth, 
it  is  the  freedom  of  the  truth,  knowing  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  knowing  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  has  made  them  free,  free  in 
the  expression  of  the  hope  and  the  faith  that  they  have  in  their 
existence  here  and  hereafter.  It  is  that  freedom  that  is  expressed 
in  the  lives  of  the  missionaries,  the  young  boys  that  are  sent  into 
the  nations.  They  are  not  very  far  advanced  in  the  gospel,  not 
with  a  great  knowledge  of  the  principles  of  life  and  salvation,  yet 
by  their  living,  by  the  truth  of  the  message  which  they  are  sent  to 
bear  to  the  nations,  by  abiding  in  the  Word  of  God,  they  have 
learned  the  truth,  and  the  truth  has  made  them  free,  and  they 
stand  up  in  the  meetings  or  on  the  street  corners,  whenever  an 
opportunity  presents  itself,  and  declare  unto  the  world  that  God 
lives,  a  personal  being,  that  Jesus  lives,  a  personal  being,  each 
separate  one  from  the  other,  yet  united  in  the  things  of  God  per- 
taining to  the  salvation  of  the  children  of  men.  They  declare  that 
they  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  that  the 
gospel  called  "Mormonism"  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  plan 
of  life  and  salvation,  given  to  the  children  of  men. 

The  world  cannot  bear  that  testimony.  Then  men  and  the 
women  who  have  not  accepted  the  word  of  God  and  who  do  not 
abide  in  the  word  of  God  cannot  bear  that  testimony  and  say  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  with  knowledge  and  with  conviction.  That  be- 
longs to  the  men  and  the  women  who  have  followed  him  in  the 
path  of  the  regeneration,  who  have  been  born  anew  in  the  kingdom 
of  God  and  have  received  the  Holy  Ghost  to  lead  them  unto  all 
truth,  to  make  things  known  unto  them,  the  things  of  God  and  the 
vital  things  of  life;  for  that  is  the  mission  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  And 
as  we  were  told  this  afternoon  by  President  Shepherd,  every  man 
and  every  woman  born  into  this  Church  through  the  waters  of 
baptism  has  conferred  upon  them  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by 
men  who  are  in  authority  to  administer  this  ordinance ;  and  if  they 
are  faithful,  if  their  repentance  has  been  genuine  and  sincere  and 
they  seek  God  in  the  humility  of  their  hearts,  they  have  a  right  to 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost ;  and  that  gift  is  knowledge,  intelligence, 
revelation ;  for  he  will  take  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son  and  give  it 
unto  you,  leading  you  unto  all  truth.  That  was  the  promise  of  the 
Master.  So  we  are  right  when  we  say,  if  we  know  it,  and  feel  it, 
and  have  received  the  gift  of  revelation,  we  know  that  God  lives  and 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  indeed  his  Son,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world. 


ELDER  JOHN  P.  LILLY  WHITE 


67 


I  was  thinking,  during  the  remarks  of  President  Grant  this 
morning  and  of  President  Shepherd  this  afternoon,  how  many 
people  are  there  in  the  world  not  of  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  who  would  stand  up  and  say,  if  the  Master  appeared  unto 
them  or  if  he  came  and  presented  the  question  as  he  did  to  Peter, 
unto  the  apostles,  "Who  do  men  say  that  I  am?" — how  many  would 
declare  as  Peter  declared,  "Thou  art  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
living  God"?  I  tell  you,  there  are  not  many  in  the  world  who  be- 
lieve in  that  doctrine.  There  are  not  many  men  and  women  out- 
side of  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  will  declare  with  conviction  that 
they  know  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God.  They  doubt  it. 
Many  of  the  men  who  are  called  to  preach  the  doctrine  of  the 
Master  deny  his  divinity  and  attribute  to  him  another  origin  aside 
from  his  heavenly  siredom.  The  Latter-day  Saints,  one  and  all, 
the  thousands  that  gather  upon  such  occasions  as  this,  if  the  ques- 
tion were  put  to  them  and  they  were  asked  if  they  knew  and  could 
declare  "with  conviction  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  the  living 
God,  that  our  eternal  Father  in  heaven,  indeed,  is  his  Father,  and 
that  he  was  born  of  the  virgin  Mary — every  man  and  woman  al- 
most without  exception  would  answer  in  the  affirmative  that  they 
know  it,  because  they  have  received  the  truth  and  have  abided  in 
the  truth,  and  the  truth  has  made  them  free. 

So  I  glory  in  the  gospel  of  the  Master,  its  message  to.  the 
world.  This  message  is  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue,  and  peo- 
ple, that  they  must  repent  and  turn  to  the  Lord,  keeping  his  com- 
mandments, obeying  his  laws,  if  they  will  have  peace  and  escape 
the  judgments  which  God  has  decreed  shall  be  poured  out  upon 
those  who  forget  God  and  forsake  his  ways.  I  pray  that  we  shall 
ever  be  humble  and  prayerful,  seeking  constantly  the  guidance  of 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  all  our  undertakings,  in  our  everyday  life, 
that  our  acts  will  be  circumspect,  that  our  lives  will  be  clean  before 
God  and  man,  that  the  lives  we  live  will  speak  more  eloquently  of 
the  gospel  which  we  have  embraced  than  any  words  that  we  have 
power  to  utter.  That  this  may  be  our  desire,  I  pray  through  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  A.  WILLIAM  LUND 

Assistant  Church  Historian 

I  feel  keenly,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  position  that  I  am 
called  to  occupy,  and  most  humbly  ask  for  an  interest  in  your 
faith  and  prayers,  that  the  few  words  that  I  may  speak  this  after- 
noon may  be  spoken  under  the  influence  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  I  am 
proud  that  I  am  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  I  am  proud  of  my  father  and  my  mother  and  the  teach- 
ings that  they  have  given  me  in  my  youth,  and  I  do  hope  and  trust 
that  these  teachings,  which  I  know  to  be  true,  may  always  be 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


uppermost  in  my  life,  because  I  realize  that  by  obedience  unto 
them  I  shall  gain  eternal  life. 

When  Brother  Shepherd  spoke  to  us  concerning  the  faith  of 
our  fathers,  I  was  proud,  too,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  my 
'  grandparents  on  my  mother's  side  were  pioneers  in  this  valley,  that 
they  came  here  in  1849,  and  helped  to  subdue  the  wilderness,  that 
they  were  among  the  early  settlers  of  Lehi  and  helped  to  build  that 
place;  that  later  my  grandfather  was  one  of  those  who  helped  to 
build  up  Sanpete  County  and  became  the  president  of  the  Sanpete 
Stake  of  Zion.  I  rejoice  that  my  father  was  a  pioneer  of  this  state, 
that  he  came  in  the  early  days  and  helped  to  build  up  this  won- 
derful commonwealth.  I  rejoice  in  the  faith  that  he  always  ex- 
hibited, in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  of  the  knowledge  that  he  had 
that  this  Church  taught  the  gospel,  which  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation.  I  rejoice,  too,  in  the  faith  that  my  mother  has  always 
exhibited,  with  other  mothers  in  the  Church,  in  sacrificing  the  as- 
sociation of  her  husband,  the  pleasure  and  friendship  of  her 
sons,  by  helping  them  go  upon  missions  whenever  they  have 
been  called  by  the  Lord,  our  God.  It  is  a  sweet  memory  to  me  that 
faith  has  been  planted  in  my  heart  by  my  parents  for  I  realize  that 
men  and  women  grow  old  and  cannot  be  with  us  forever.  Our 
fathers  and  our  mothers  cannot  always  be  here  to  guide  us,  but 
the  truth,  the  gospel,  that  Brother  Lillywhite  has  mentioned  can 
be  our  guide,  can  make  us  free,  and  obedience  to  it  will  lead  us 
back  into  the  presence  of  our  Father  in  heaven. 

The  mothers  of  this  Church,  in  the  early  days,  sacrificed  greatly 
for  the  advancement  of  this  Church  and  of  God's  work.  Many  a 
time  when  the  leaders  of  the  Church  have  been  called  upon  to  go 
forth  in  the  world  to  present  the  gospel  of  life  and  salvation  unto 
the  nations,  these  mothers  have  been  left  behind  sick  and  with 
little  children,  some  of  them  even  in  bed  with  a  newly  born  babe, 
my  own  mother  being  one  of  these ;  but  they  never  said  not  to  go, 
when  their  husbands  were  called  to  go  forth  for  the  work  of  the 
Lord.  Men  went  forth  in  the  early  days  preaching  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  without  purse  and  without  scrip,  working  their  way 
by  their  own  hands  from  Nauvoo  to  New  York,  or  to  whatever 
field  they  were  called  to  labor,  chopping  wood,  in  fact,  doing  any- 
thing they  could,  to  get  a  few  cents  on  the  way  to  pay  their  fare. 
They  never. hesitated  when  God  called  them.  They  never  said  no, 
it  mattered  not  what  the  circumstances  were,  under  which  they 
were  placed.  I  do  not  believe  that  that  faith  is  dead,  I  believe  that 
today  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  is  still  that  of  sacrifice, 
that  they  will  give  of  their  time,  that  they  will  go  forth  and  do  God's 
bidding.  I  appeal  to  the  young  men  and  the  young  women  here 
this  afternoon  to  do  what  they  are  asked  by  the  bishops  of  their 
wards.  You  cannot  expect  to  gain  a  reward  unless  you  do  the  thing 
that  is  required  of  you.  You  never  saw  a  steam  engine  run  with- 
out steam;  luke-warm  water  will  not  turn  the  wheels.  Neither 


ELDER  A.  WILLIAM  LUND  69 

/ 

will  luke-warmness  in  the  Church  of  God  bring  to  you  that  joy,  that 
happiness  that  is  ours  if  we  will  work.  We  must  love  the  work  of 
God. 

The  story  is  told  of  the  great  violinist,  Ole  Bull,  that  he  loved 
his  violin  so  well  that  he  took  it  to  bed  with  him,  always  had  it  with 
him.  That  love  was  repaid  when  he  became  one  of  the  great 
masters  of  that  instrument.  So  our  love  for  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  should  be  taken  with  us  always,  that  whenever  we  are  called 
we  are  ready  to  do  and  ready  to  go ;  that  we  may  be  masters  of  the 
inclinations  and  passions  that  are  in  us  as  individuals,  that  we  may 
control  them  and  go  forth,  clean,  sweet  and  pure,  into  the  world  to 
preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  There  is  not  a  missionary  who 
goes  out  into  the  world  but  that  the  prayers  of  his  mother  and  his 
father  ascend  to  God  that  he  may  go  forth  in  humility,  be  clean 
and  keep  himself  unspotted  from  the  sins  of  the  world.  The  Lord 
has  instituted  a  way  for  you  and  for  me  to  keep  ourselves  clean, 
and  that  way  is  going  to  our  Sacrament  meetings,  going  to  the 
house  of  God,  partaking  of  the  Sacrament,  remembering  Jesus 
Christ,  who  atoned  for  us  that  we  might  come  back  into  his  pres- 
ence. Go  there  faithfully  and  listen  to  the  words  of  the  men  of  God 
who  are  sent  to  give  unto  us  the  bread  of  life.  If  we  do  that  we 
are  prepared  to  meet  the  world,  to  meet  sin,  to  know  it  and  over- 
come it. 

This  gospel  which  we  have  obeyed  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation ;  there  is  no  doubt  of  that  in  my  mind.  I  have  often 
heard  President  McMurrin,  in  bearing  his  testimony  to  the  people 
in  the  Tabernacle  and  in  other  places,  say  that  he  knows  that  the 
gospel  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation ;  I  have  that  same  testi- 
mony and  I  believe  that  every  missionary  who  has  been  out  in  the 
world,  who  returns  home  and  strives  to  do.  the  will  of  the  Lord, 
will  retain  the  wonderful  blessings  that  are  given  to  him  in  the 
testimony  that  he  receives  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
and  that  this  Church  has  in  it  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation, 
this  gospel  that  we  believe  and  teach. 

We  all  look  forward,  the  whole  world  I  might  say,  to  the  com- 
ing again  of  Jesus  Christ  upon  the  earth.  We  look  forward  to  that 
time  when  he  shall  rule  and  reign,  and  if  he  should  come  while  we 
are  living,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  are  we  going  to  be  prepared  to 
meet  him?1  It  is  a  question  I  ask  myself,  "Am  I  ready,  so  that  I 
would  be  prepared  to  meet  him,  if  he  came?"  We  ought  to  take 
inventory  of  ourselves,  especially  we  younger  boys  and  girls  in  the 
Church  of  God,  and  find  out  if  we  are  living  according  to  his  com- 
mandments. If  not,  we  should  then  turn  our  lives  in  that  straight 
and  narrow  way  that  will  lead  us  unto  God;  for  he  is  merciful, 
loves  his  children,  and  has  given  unto  us  that  wonderful  principle 
of  repentance;  that  we  may  turn  away  from  our  sins,  turn  away 
from  our  evil  ways,  and  gain,  through  the  Lord's  mercy  a  forgive- 
ness of  our  sins.    True  it  is,  that  we  must  have  first  obeyed  the 


.  70  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

* 

ordinance  of  baptism  for  the  remission  of  sins,  by  one  having 
authority  to  perform  that  ordinance,  in  order  that  we  may  get  into 
the  kingdom  of  God.  But  the  Lord  loves  his  children,  and  has 
given  us  also,  the  principle  of  repentance,  that  we  may  turn  unto 
him  again,  as  he  wants  us  all  to  come  back. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  Lord  could  shake  this  world  and 
bring  you  and  me  upon  our  knees  mighty  quick,  if  he  desired  our 
return  to  him  in  that  way.  But  he  does  not.  He  loves  us  and 
wants  us  to  have  our  own  free  agency;  he  has  given  this  to  us. 
Even  before  we  came  here  he  gave  us  our  freedom  of  choice.  We 
chose  in  heaven  whether  we  would  serve  him  or  follow  the  one 
who  would  not  obey  God's  commandments.  So  we  have  that  free 
agency  now.  We  may  choose  good  or  evil.  God  wants  us  to  choose 
the  good,  because  we  are  his  children,  and  he  desires  that  we  may 
be  saved  in  his  kingdom.  For  that  reason  he  has  given  us  these 
laws  and  commandments  known  as  the  gospel  which  is  the  plan 
of  life  and  salvation.  Whenever  God  has  had  a  message  to  deliver 
to  the  people  of  this  earth  he  has  always  sent  his  prophets  before 
him.  When  the  cities  of  the  plains  were  to  be  destroyed  he  sent 
his  servants  to  preach  unto  them  and  call  them  to  repentance.  So 
in  these  days  in  which  we  live,  God  has  again  sent  the  gospel 
message  forth  as  a  warning  unto  all  the  world  before  the  end  shall 
come.  There  is  a  way  and  only  one  way  of  going  back  into  his  pres- 
ence, and  that  way,  we  testify  to  the  world  in  all  soberness,  as 
members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  has  been  opened  by  our 
•  Father  in  heaven,  through  the  instrumentality  of  Joseph  Smith, 
that  boy  who  was  called  in  his  youth  and  who  remained  true  to  his 
testimony  that  he  did  see  God  and  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  the  Father 
spoke  unto  him,  saying,  "This  is  my  beloved  Son,  hear  him."  The 
most  glorious  vision,  I  believe,  that  has  ever  been  given  in  the  his- 
tory of  man  is  this  vision  of  the  Almighty  God  and  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ  shov/ing  themselves  to  this  boy,  Joseph  Smith. 

Later  angels  came  unto  him  and  brought  the  authority  of  the 
holy  Priesthood  of  God  ;  because,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  know, 
if  we  will  stop  and  think  for  one  minute,  that  unless  we  have  the 
proper  authority,  nothing  can  be  done  and  be  valid,  whether  it  be 
in  civil  law  or  religious  law.  The  Lord  understood  this  and  sent, 
to  this  Prophet,  angels  bearing  the  holy  Priesthood  of  God.  John 
the  Baptist  came  on  the  15th  day  of  May  in  1829,  bringing  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  and  bestowing  it  upon  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Cowdery,  giving  unto  them  the  right  to  baptize  in  the  name  of  God 
for  the  remission  of  sins,  giving  unto  them  the  keys  of  the  pre- 
paratory gospel,  also  the  right  of  visitation  of  angels.  Some  few 
weeks  later,  we  do  not  know  the  exact  date,  Peter,  James  and  John 
did  come  and  give  unto  them  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  the 
power  of  God  to  act  in  his  name  in  all  the  ordinances  of  life  and 
salvation.  In  the  Historian's  Office  we  have,  in  the  handwriting  of 
Oliver  Cowdery,  the  statement  telling  the  story  of  John  the  Bap- 


ELDER  A.  WILLIAM  LUND 


71 


tist's  coming,  of  \his  ordaining  them,  and  of  Joseph  and  Oliver  bap- 
tizing each  other  in  turn  after  they  had  received  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood ;  and  in  his  writing  he  states  that  Peter,  James  and  John  did 
come  and  confer  upon  them  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood.  There  is 
the  evidence,  if.  we  need  it,  that  the  words  of  this  man,  this  prophet 
whom  we  love  and  revere,  are  true.  Other  angels  came  bringing 
the  keys  of  the  different  gospel  dispensations — because  this  is  the 
gospel  dispensation  of  the  fullness  of  times,  in  which  all  others 
shall  be  gathered  together  in  one  and  shall  be  returned  unto  God 
by  his  Son  in  completeness.  In  order  to  do  that  there  must  be 
other  keys  given.  Some  of  these  keys  were  given  on  the  third  day 
of  April,  1836,  just  one  week  after  the  dedication  of  the  Kirtland 
temple,  which  dedication  was  witnessed  by  the  people  there  that 
God  approved  of  that  temple.  Even  people  of  the  city  came  and 
wondered  what  was  going  on  at  the  dedication  of  this  temple. 

On  the  third  day  of  April,  1836,  Oliver  Cowdery  and  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  went  into  the  temple  to  pray.  As  was  their 
custom,  when  they  needed  light,  whenever  they  wanted  informa- 
tion, they  went  to  God  and  asked  him  for  it.  They  went  into  the 
temple  on  this  day,  and  kneeling  before  the  altar  were  asking  God 
certain  things  pertaining  to  this  kingdom,  when  a  most  glorious 
vision  came  unto  them,  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  appeared 
standing,  as  it  were,  upon  a  breastwork  of  gold  directly  over  the 
altar,  and  he  spoke  unto  them  with  a  voice  sounding  as  the  rushing 
of  great  waters,  saying: 

"I  am  the  first  and  the  last;  I  am  he  who  liveth,  I  am  he  who  was  slain; 
I  am  your  advocate  with  the  Father. 

"Behold,  your  sins  are  forgiven  you;  you  are  clean  before  me;  there- 
fore, lift  up  your  heads  and  rejoice. 

"Let  the  hearts  of  your  brethren  rejoice,  and  let  the  hearts  of  all  my 
people  rejoice,  who  have,  with  their  might,  built  this  house  to  my  name. 

"For  behold  I  have  accepted  this  house  and  my  name  shall  be  here;  and 
I  will  manifest  myself  to  my  people  in  mercy  in  this  house." 

A  wonderful  statement  from  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  After 
that  glorious  vision  had  passed  then  came  Moses  the  prophet  of 
God,  holding  the  keys  of  the  gathering  of  all  the  Tribes  of  Israel, 
and  he  gave  those  keys  to  these  two  men.  After  that  vision  had 
closed,  then  came  Elias,  a  prophet  who  lived,  we  are  told,  in  the 
days  of  Abraham.  Then,  when  that  vision  had  closed,  came  the 
marvelous  vision  of  Elijah,  the  prophet  of  God,  of  whom  Malachi 
spoke,  saying,  that  he  should  come  before  the  great  and  the  dread- 
ful day  of  the  Lord,  who  came  giving  unto  these  two  men  the  keys 
of  the  sealing  power,  the  keys  of  sealing  the  living  and  also  the 
dead. 

It  is  a  wonderful  thing,  that  the  Priesthood  of  God,  and  all  its 
keys,  have  been  restored  to  these  two  men  and  handed  down,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  by  ordination  according  to  the  call  and  direc- 
tion of  our  Father  in  heaven.  My  testimony  is  to  you  that  every 
man,  Brigham  Young,  and  all  those  who  have  succeeded  Joseph 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Smith,  have  received,  by  the  laying  on  of  hands  of  those  in  author- 
ity, these  keys,  and  that  President  Grant  has  them  today — every 
key  necessary  to  turn  the  lock  that  will  open  the  door  into  the 
celestial  kingdom  of  God,  if  we  will  but  obey  and  keep  the  teachings 
of  this  man  who  was  called  of  God  directly  by  revelation  unto  the 
apostleship,  and,  I  believe  firmly,  by  revelation  placed  at  the  head 
of  this  Church,  and  I  know  holds  the  keys  of  this  Priesthood.  Oh, 
how  we  ought  to  rejoice,  as  young  men  and  young  women,  that  we 
may  grow  up  under  such  a  wonderful  influence  and  realize  by  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  who  testifies  of  the  Father  and  the  Son, 
that  these  things  are  true. 

In  all  soberness  I  leave  with  you  my  humble  testimony  that  I 
do  know  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  and  is  a  prophet  of  the  living  God,  and  that  all  the  keys  neces- 
sary for  life  and  salvation  are  in  this  Church..  May  it  be  our  happy 
lot,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  gain  eternal  life,  God's  greatest 
blessing  to  man,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  our  Re- 
deemer. Amen. 

The  L.  D.  S.  University  ladies'  trio,  composed  of  Sisters  Nellie 
Priestley,  Zella  Benson,  and  Nellie  Durham,  sang,  "Trust  in  God." 

i 

ELDER  EDWARD  J.  WOOD 

President  of  Alberta  Stake  and  Canadian  Temple 

President  of  Alberta  Stake  and  of  the  Canadian  Temple 
I  feel  that  the  time  remaining  belongs  to  Brother  McMurrin. 
I  am  sorry  we  cannot  give  him  longer ;  we  all  like  to  hear  Presi- 
dent McMurrin  bear  his  testimony  and  preach  the  gospel,  which 
he  has  done  ever  since  I  can  remember. 

Like  the  rest  of  you,  I  always  feel  it  my  duty  to  respond  when- 
ever called  upon.  I  have  listened  with  interest  to  the  testimony  of 
the  elders  and  the  beautiful  music  rendered,  and  I  rejoice  also  this 
morning  in  hearing  the  presiding  authorities,  as  far  as  they  spoke  in 
the  Tabernacle,  especially  when  we  were  told  by  the  First  Presi- 
dency that  each  ward  should  furnish  one  missionary  to  go  on  a 
short-term  mission — brethren  with  past  experience. 

I  come  from  Canada,  as  was  mentioned  by  Brother  McMurrin, 
the  land  of  the  north.  I  bring  you  glad  tidings  from  some  of  the 
lost"  Ten  Tribes,  and  we  are  pleased  to  report  everything  in  very 
good  condition  we  think,  in  our  three  stakes  in  Canada ;  and  also 
that  the  temple  work  is  progressing  very  favorably.  We  find  the 
person  who  goes  to  the  temple  most  regularly  is  the  one  who  goes 
to  the  Sacramental  meetings  and  pays  his  tithing  more  regularly 
than  anybody  else.  So  my  advice  is  that  we  always  take  a  little 
time  to  go  to  the  temple  and  work  for  the  dead  as  well  as  the  living. 
As  always,  I  was  delighted  to  be  in  the  company  of  Brother  Shep- 
herd ;  I  have  felt  for  years  the  spirit  of  temple  work. 


ELDER  EDWARD  J.  WOOD 


Speaking  of  the  missionary  movement,  I  feel  keenly  the  value 
of  temple  work  and  missionary  work  this  afternoon.  I  do  not  be- 
lieve for  a  minute  that  the  Church  built  the  temple  in  the  Hawaiian 
Islands  only  for  the  benefit  of  a  few  of  the  Sandwich  Islanders.  I 
have  been  on  the  Islands  three  times,  also  to  the  Samoan  and  Navi- 
gator Islands,  and  I  love  that  people  very  much.  I  have  heard 
President  Smith  say  .he  did  not  think  that  Utah  and  Idaho,  or  any 
of  the  North  American  colonies,  or  stakes,  would  ever  be  the  per- 
manent dwelling  place  of  the  Polynesian  Islanders.  I  know  how  he 
felt.  When  I  heard  that  Brother  Ballard  was  appointed  to  open  up 
the  South  American  mission,  with  Brother  Rey  L.  Pratt  of  the 
Mexican  mission,  and  President  Rulon  S.  Wells,  I  thought  then  of 
the  many  times  that  I  heard  President  Smith  say  we  have  got  to 
do  something  for  the  benefit  of  the  Polynesian  Islanders,  to  prepare 
them  for  the  future,  without  assisting  them  or  encouraging  them  to 
emigrate  to  Utah.  When  I  heard  of  the  building  of  the  temple, 
this  is  what  I  thought:  I  think  I  see  the  stopping  place  for  the 
Polynesian  Islanders,  a  place  to  prepare  them  for  some  future  work. 
But  just  as  soon  as  I  heard  of  Brother  Ballard's  being  called  to 
Buenos  Ayres,  South  America,  I  thought,  there  is  my  hope.  I  be- 
lieve firmly  that  the  great  hope  and  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
regarding  the  home  of  the  ancient  inhabitants  of  North  and  South 
America,  the  Lamanites  and  Nephites,  will  receive  blessings  on  the 
Sandwich  Islands,  prepare  the  Samoan,  the  Maori,  the  Tahitian, 
the  Hawaiian,  and  the  Tongan  in  that  temple  to  get  ready  for  the 
opening  up  and  the  preaching  of  the  gospel  to  their  own  country- 
men in  South  America.  It  is  just  a  delightful  thought  to  me  to  feel 
that  way. 

In  the  first  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  the  Lord 
says : 

"And  the  rebellious  shall  be  pierced  with  much  sorrow;  for  their  in- 
iquities shall  be  spoken  upon  the  housetops,  and  their  secret  acts  shall  be 
revealed. 

"And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my 
disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these  last  days. 

"And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none  shall  stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord  have 
commanded  them." 

In  1916  I  was  called  to  make  my  third  trip  to  the  Islands.  The 
company,  my  old  acquaintances  and  others  were  leaving  Salt  Lake. 
President  Smith  told  me  to  be  here  at  a  certain  time,  that  we  might 
leave  San  Francisco  on  a  certain  boat.  But  I  am  a  Canadian- 
British  subject,  although  born  in  Salt  Lake,  and  they  never  knew  it. 
I  did  not  tell  them.  Let  me  tell  you  what  happened,  through  the 
power  of  faith  and  prayer.  There  are  a  good  many  young  people 
here,  and  though  I  do  not  like  to  mention  myself,  I  want,  above 
all  things,  that  the  young  people,  our  boys  and  girls,  our  future  mis- 
sionaries, shall  believe  firmly  in  prayer.  I  was  to  leave  at  a  cer- 
tain time.    I  had  sent  to  Ottawa,  the  Washington  of  Canada,  for 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


my  passport,  and  it  had  not  arrived  in  Cardston  in  time.  We  were 
fourteen  miles  north  of  the  international  boundary  line.  What 
should  I  do?  The  First  Presidency  requested  that  I  be  here  at  a 
certain  time  to  report,  to  leave  San  Francisco  at  a  certain  time. 
Well,  I  told  the  Lord.  Of  course  he  knew  it,  but  I  always  think, 
like  any  other  father;  he  enjoys  being  told.  If  your  children  ever 
get  anything  they  long  for,  they  do  not  get  it,  generally,  by  asking 
just  once  or  twice  to  show  their  parents  they  want  it.  It  is  not 
what  we  want  but  what  we  need.  Our  heavenly  Father  is  willing 
to  grant  us,  I  believe,  what  we  most  need.  I  told  the  Lord  I  did 
not  have  my  passport  and  I  was  to  leave  at  a  certain  time.  The 
Spirit  said,  just  get  ready  and  go.  I  did.  I  went  to  the  boundary 
line,  met  the  emigration  officer,  and  he  said,  "How  do  you  do,  Mr. 
Wood?  Where  are  you  going?"  "I  am  going  to  Salt  Lake." 
"Where  is  your  passport?"  "I  haven't  any?  "Why  didn't  you  get 
it?"  I  said,  "Ottawa  did  not  get  it  here  in  time."  He  said,  "All 
right,  when  you  get  it,  send  it  to  me."  I  came  to  Salt  Lake.  The 
passport  was  to  be  in  Salt  Lake  by  the  time  I  was  to  leave,  giving 
three  days  grace  between  the  time  I  got  here  and  the  time  I  left. 
The  first  day  it  didn't  come.  I  waited  until  the  morning  of  the  third 
day  to  be  set  apart.  I  did  not  tell  President  Smith  or  any  of  the 
presiding  brethren  that  I  did  not  have  a  passport.  I  was  afraid 
they  would  say,  "You  had  better  wait  and  go  on  some  other 
steamer."  President  Smith,  when  he  set  me  apart,  said,  "Brother 
Wood,  you  will  go  with  this  company."  When  he  said  that  a  thrill 
went  through  my  whole  being.  I  did  not  have  my  passport.  How 
could  I  go  with  the  company?  He  said,  "You  will  go  with  the 
company ;  you  will  perform  the  mission  for  which  you  are  sent, 
and  .you  will  return  in  safety."  So  we  got  ready.  They  all  thought 
I  had  my  passport  the  same  as  the  others.  We  arrived  in  San 
Francisco,  where  I  would  have  to  present  my  passport  to  get  my 
ticket,  and  then  again  on  the  steamer.  We  went  to  get  our  tickets. 
The  emigration  officer  was  very  busy.  He  said  to  me,  "Mr.  Wood, 
you  are  in  charge  of  this  little  company  ?"  "Yes."  "Sit  down  here 
and  give  me  some  assistance."  I  sat  down  and  helped  him  take  the 
passports  from  all  the  other  passengers.  We  did  not  get  through 
that  day.  Tomorrow  came.  We  met  early  in  the  morning.  "Mr. 
Wood,  you  were  here  yesterday.  All  right.  You  are  a  British  sub- 
ject? Go  right  on  board.  Thank  you  very  much.  I  have  your 
passport."   I  thonght,  "You  haven't,  but  it  is  all  right." 

I  went  on  board  the  steamer  .  Two  days  out  from  San  Fran- 
cisco the  purser  said,  "Mr.  Wood,  better  come  in  and  give  me  your 
passport  with  those  of  the  rest  of  the  company."  All  right,  I  said. 
We  went  into  the  purser's  office,  got  talking  about  the  gospel,  when 
he  said,  "Well,  if  all  you  have  said  is  true,  you  do  not  need  a  pass- 
port to  go  to  preach  to  the  nations  of  the  earth."  He  never  asked 
me  for  it.   I  read  him  what  I  read  to  you. 

I  thought  then,  I  am  on  the  steamer,'  but  it  may  be  harder  to 


ELDER  EDWARD  J.  WOOD 


75 


get  off  at  Samoa.,  where  I  was  to  land.  Out  of  about  four  hundred 
passengers  there  would  be  only  fifteen  or  twenty  for  Samoa.  "What 
will  I  do  to  get  off?"  So  I  prayed  with  the  company  that  was  going 
to  the  Samoan  Islands,  just  a  few  of  the  elders.  I  told  the  Lord  we 
had  gotten  by  the  Canadian  officials  and  the  United  States  officer 
at  San  Francisco,  "and  now  comes  the  most  severe  test  of  all,  the 
immigration  officer  on  the  Samoan  Islands,  where  there  are  only 
a  few,  nothing  to  take  up  his  time."  When  the  steamer  came  up  to 
the  wharf  there  were  the  natives  with  whom  I  had  been  acquainted 
years  before,  when  four  of  us  were  pioneers,  and  then  later  the 
same  good  old  faithful  Latter-day  Saints.  One  of  our  elders  had  a 
Samoan  band,  one  of  the  finest  bands  in  the  Islands,  which  came 
to  meet  me,  and  here  I  was:  I  could  not  get  off.  Could  not?  I 
knew  if  they  learned  I  did  not  have  a  passport  I  would  either  be  de- 
ported or  taken  on  to  Australia.  Samoa  is  2,100  miles  south  of 
Honolulu,  Australia  is  2,000  miles  away  from  Samoa.  I  would  have 
to  be  taken  to  Australia  if  I  could  not  present  my  passport,  and  here 
were  the  natives  trying  to  reach  my  hand,  delighted  to  think  I  had 
come  back  the  third  time  to  visit  them  again,  and  some  were  crying, 
so  overcome  with  joy,  as  their  love  is  very  great  indeed  for  the 
elders  from  Zion.  They  will  give  all  they  have  to  help  a  missionary. 
They  were  making  way,  so  that  I  could  come  down  and  shake  hands 
and  rub  noses  with  them.  Wouldn't  it  be  a  disappointment  if  I 
could  not  get  off !  So  I  told  the  Lord,  "You  have  said,  'My  mes- 
sengers will  go  to  the  four  corners  of  the  earth ;'  here  I  am,  no  pass- 
port ;  help  me  now."  Well,  we  lined  up.  Here  was  one  immigra- 
tion officer  and  there  was  another,  and  a  lot  of  people  in  front  of 
me.  I  did  not  know  whether  to  come  first,  last,  or  where.  So  when 
we  got  right  up  to  within  the  last  man,  the  other  immigration  offi- 
cer said  to  the  man  he  was  examining,  "You  are  an  anarchist."  The 
man  with  me  jumped  up  and  went  oyer  and  sat  down  and  they  had 
a  few  moments  talk,  and  I  was  praying.  After  he  got  through  he 
was  very  much  irritated,  very  much  out  of  patience.  He  said,  "Mr. 
Wood,  I  have  your  passport ;  thanks  very  much ;  go  right  on." 

Brothers  and  sisters,  I  know  it  pays  to  pray.  Young  folks,  at- 
tend to  vour  Sacramental  meetings,  go  to  the  temple,  perform  work 
for  the  living  and  the  dead.  God  bless  all  Israel,  wherever  they 
may  be,  is  my  humble  prayer  and  testimony  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  California  Mission 

It  is  almost  time,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  to  bring  this  meet- 
ing to  a  close.  I  suppose  there  may  have  been  some  wonder  in  the 
minds  of  some  of  the  people,  especially  those  who  heard  the  an- 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


nouncement  made  in  the  morning  session  by  President  Heber  J. 
Grant,  regarding  Dr.  George  H.  Brimhall,  who  was  named  as  one 
of  the  brethren  who  would  speak  in  this  meeting  this  afternoon. 
Dr.  Brimhall  had  made  a  promise  to  attend  the  funeral  services  of 
a  friend  in  Provo,  and  for  that  reason  was  excused  from  being  in 
attendance  at  this  meeting. 

I  have  very  greatly  rejoiced  in  the  testimonies  that  have  been 
borne  by  our  brethren.  I  have  had  the  thought  in  my  mind,  what  a 
wonderful  blessing  it  is  to  be  associated  with  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  when  all  of  these  marvelous  things  that 
have  been  spoken  of  have  taken  place,  and  the  Lord  our  God,  in  his 
mercy  and  kindness  and  in  keeping  with  the  promises  that  he  made 
to  holy  prophets  in  ancient  times,  has  revealed  anew  the  ever- 
lasting gospel  and  sent  from  his  presence  holy  beings  to  clothe 
mortal  men  with  power  and  authority  to  legally  teach  the  things 
of  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  and  to  legally  administer  sacred  and  holy 
ordinances  that  are  essential  to  the  salvation  of  the  children  of  men. 
We  should  be  a  most  grateful  people.  No  other  people  are  pos- 
sessed of  such  blessings  as  we  enjoy. 

I  hope  that  the  testimony  that  has  been  borne,  in  relation  to 
the  virtue  and  power  of  prayer,  may  find  lodgment  in  the  hearts  of 
the  people,  that  not  only  young  men  and  women  may  believe  in 
this  power,  but  that  older  men  and  women  also  may  have  the  same 
belief,  that  they  may  understand  and  realize  that  God,  our  eternal 
Father,  is  a  living,  intelligent  being,  and  that  by  means  known  only 
to  him  he  is  able  to  hear  our  humble  petitions,  and  he  has  the  power 
to  bless  us  with  the  blessings  that  will  be  for  our  advantage.  And 
I  know  that  the  Lord  our  God  is  hearing  the  prayers  of  his  people. 
I  sometimes  think  of  what  advertising  would  be  done  by  some  of 
the  so-called  healers  in  the  state  of  California  under  like  circum- 
stances ;  for  we  have  "healers"  there,  men  and  women  who  profess, 
through  the  power  of  prayer,  to  heal  the  sick,  and  they  tell  some 
very  remarkable  stories  in  relation  to  the  healing  that  oftimes 
follows  their  ministry.  And  sometimes  Latter-day  Saints  are  dis- 
turbed because  of  hearing  that  somebody  has  received  a  blessing 
through  prayer.  I  often  think  of  the  statement  made  to  me  by 
President  Charles  W.  Penrose,  when  discussing  this  angle  of  the 
question,  that  there  were  healings  taking  place,  and  his  answer 
was,  "Well,  what  of  it?"  I  was  a  little  startled  for  the  moment, 
but  the  more  I  have  given  thought  to  that  answer  the  more  sensible 
it  appears  to  me.   What  of  it? 

No  healings  that  take  place  among  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth, 
no  matter  who  may  be  healed,  take  from  us  today  the  authority 
that  was  given  by  the  sending  of  holy  angels,  that  that  authority 
might  be  conferred  upon  men.  We  have  healings,  marvelous  heal- 
ings, from  time  to  time,  in  the  state  of  California.  It  might  sur 
prise  people,  because  generally  when  people  think  of  California  thev 
think  of  pleasure,  not  of  religion,  not  of  prayer ;  and  yet  we  have 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 


77 


praying  men  and  praying  women  in  California,  Latter-day  Saints, 
who  believe  in  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and 
the  power  and  virtue  of  the  authority  that  has  been  restored.  One 
of  those  men  is  Bishop  Thomas,  who  formerly  lived  in  Idaho  Falls. 
He  went  as  a  patriarch,  at  the  call  of  a  sister  who  was  afflicted,  not 
long  ago,  and  she  commenced  to  tell  him  that  she  was  going  to  one 
of  the  "healers,"  a  woman  that  has  attracted  great  attention  in  the 
city  of  Los  Angeles,  and  she  wanted  a  patriarchal  blessing  before 
she  visited  this  woman.  The  patriarch  did  not  feel  like  giving  her 
a  blessing,  just  at  that  time,  but  he  taught  her  the  doctrines  of  the 
gospel,  told  her  of  the  promises  that  had  been  made  by  the  Lord 
our  God  through  the  holy  Priesthood,  that  if  any  were  sick  they 
were  to  call  for  the  elders  of  the  Chuch  and  anoint  with  oil,  and 
the  prayer  of  faith  should  save  the  sick.  This  woman  had  been 
bedridden  for  four  years,  but  she  commenced  to  grasp  the  import- 
ance of  the  teachings  that  were  given  her,  and  then  she  sought  a 
blessing,  in  the  way  appointed  of  the  Lord,  at  the  hands  of  Bishop 
Thomas,  she  was  blessed  by  the  authority  of  the  Priesthood,  and 
the  next  morning,  before  Bishop  Thomas  left  his  home,  there  was  a 
rap  at  his  door,  and  when  he  opened  the  door  the  husband  of  this 
woman  was  standing  there  and  said,  "Come  out,  come  out,  and  meet 
my  wife ;  she  can  walk."  The  woman  that  had  not  walked  for  four 
years  was  healed  by  the  power  of  God.  How  such  a  thing  would 
be  heralded,  if  it  had  been  brought  about  by  one  of  these  so-called 
"divine  healers" !  It  is  not  heralded  so  much  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Those  are  incidents  in  connection  with  the  Lords'  work 
that  are  transpiring  all  the  time,  and  they  are  treasured  in  the 
minds  of  the  people  but  are  never  advertised  to  the  world  for  gain. 

I  myself  not  long  ago  went  to  the  Los  Angeles  county  hospital, 
and  I  looked  upon  a  girl  who,  in  my  own  judgment  was  dying,  and 
the  doctors  said  she  was  dying.  They  had  telegraphed  to  Salt  Lake 
City  for  her  father  and  mother  to  come.  The  father  works  over 
here  in  the  Bishop's  building.  And  at  the  girl's  request,  as  she 
gasped  out  word  by  word  with  what  seemed  to  be  her  dying 
breath,  for  the  healing  ordinance,  we  administered  to  her,  and  when 
I  left  her,  to  go  to  the  railway  station  a  mile  or  two  away,  I  thought, 
I  wonder  if  that  father  and  mother  coming  in  on  the  train  within  a 
few  minutes  will  be  in  time  to  see  their  beloved  daughter  alive. 
When  we  returned,  the  dying  girl  had  been  healed  by  the  power  of 
God — not  raised  up  to  health  and  strength  instantaneously,  but  that 
dying  power  that  had  seized  upon  her  had  been  banished  away, 
that  look  of  death  was  gone,  and  she  was  able  to  converse  with 
father  and  mother  and  she  also  was  healed  by  divine  power  in  an- 
swer to  prayer. 

I  rejoice  in  this  authority  that  God  has  restored  to  men  upon 
the  earth.  I  know  its  value,  I  know  its  truth.  I  thank  God  that 
the  ears  of  my  own  parents  were  saluted  with  this  gospel  message 
in  their  native  land,  and  that  in  the  mysterious  providences  of  God 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  by  his  power  and  by  the  operation  of  his  Spirit,  they  were 
brought  to  understand  and  believe  the  message  of  the  gospel,  and 
that  because  of  their  faith  and  their  belief  and  their  travels  from 
afar,  they  gave  me  birth  in  the  land  of  Zion.  I  rejoice  in  it.  I  praise 
the  name  of  God  for  my  birthplace  here,  in  this  choice  land,  and  I 
believe,  with  all  my  heart,  that  this  is  a  choice  land.  I  believe  that 
when  President  Brigham  Young  made  the  announcement,  as  he 
looked  over  this  valley,  "This  is  the  place,"  that  he  made  a  declara- 
tion of  greater  importance  than  he  himself  comprehended.  And  as 
time  has  gone  on  and  development  has  taken  place,  we  have 
learned  something  of  the  richness  of  the  soil  here  in  this  barren 
American  "desert" — no  richer  soil  upon  the  face  of  the  whole  earth. 
We  have  learned  something  of  the  richness  of  these  mountains, 
teeming  with  their  precious  wealth — mountains  of  iron  and  moun- 
tains of  coal,  and  mountains  of  copper  and  many  other  precious 
minerals.  We  are  just  beginning  to  learn  something  of  the  marvel- 
ous scenery  of  this  country,  and  people  are  being  attracted  to  our 
beloved  Utah. 

We  are  preparing  a  stereopticon  lecture  to  deliver  to  the  people 
in  the  California  mission,  and  we  will  probably  have  the  hardihood 
to  give  that  lecture  the  title,  "Utah,  the  Wonderland  of  America." 
Some  such  title  is  necessary  to  carry  over  to  the  minds  of  people  the 
thought  that  we  have  in  our  own  minds  that  this  is  a  choice,  a 
marvelous,  a  wonderful  section.  We  purpose  to  show  the  scenic 
beauties  of  Zion  Canyon  and  other  wonders.  We  ought  to  praise 
God  that  through  his  mercy  and  by  his  power  and  the  inspiration 
of  his  Spirit  the  feet  of  our  fathers  were  planted  here,  and  we  ought 
to  believe  that  "This  is  the  place." 

God  help  us  to  so  believe,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is  burning." 
The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  F.  F.  Hintze,  former 
president  of  the  Turkish  mission. 

THIRD  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

A  third  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  Barratt  Hall  at  10:30 
a.  m.,  Sunday,  October  4. 

Elder  John  M.  Knight,  president  of  the  Western  States  mis- 
sion, was  in  charge. 

The  music  was  furnished  by  the  Tenth  ward  choir  under  the 
direction  of  Norman  Martin. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Praise  to  the  man  who  communed 
with  Jehovah." 

Elder  Charles  S.  Martin  offered  the  invocation. 

The  choir  sang,  "In  our  Redeemer's  name." 


ELDER  JOHN  G.  ALLRED 


79 


ELDER  JOHN  G.  ALLRED 

President  io/  the  North  Central  States  Mission 

The  Lord  has  been  very  good  to  the  children  of  men  ever  since 
man's  advent  upon  the  earth.  In  the  very  beginning  the  Lord  sent 
an  angel  to  Adam  and  gave  his  instructions  concerning  the  plan  of 
redemption.  He  later  talked  to  Noah  and  Moses  and  Isaiah  and 
Jeremiah  and  gave  them  instructions  to  give  the  people  with  refer- 
ence to  their  conduct  in  the  earth.  Last  of  all  he  sent  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ  into  the  world  not  only  to  give  the  plan  of  redemption  but 
to  give  us  an  example  of  a  perfect  life. 

The  children  of  men  from  the  very  beginning  have  shown  a 
disposition  to  disregard  the  teachings  that  the  Lord  has  given 
them.  They  stoned  the  prophets  and  imprisoned  those  who  be- 
lieved in  them,  and  when  Christ,  the  Master,  the  Son  of  God, 
made  his  appearance  they  rebuked  him  as  they  had  the  prophets 
who  preceded  him  and  put  him  to  an  open  death.  But  not  until  he 
had  established  his  work  among  men  and  commissioned  his  apostles 
to  go  forth  and  make  proclamation  of  the  messages  which  he  had 
entrusted  them  with.  Every  one  of  these  apostles  suffered  an  ig- 
nominous  death.  Not  one  of  them  was  allowed  to  die  in  his  own 
home  surrounded  by  his  family  and  friends.  The  same  blood- 
thirsty desires  which  put  Jesus  Christ,  the  Master,  to  death  were 
still  lingering  in  the  souls  of  men  and  they  were  not  content  as 
long  as  there  remained  an  apostle  or  prophet  in  the  earth.  Not 
only  the  leaders,  but  the  followers  themselves  were  hounded  and 
prosecuted  and  put  to  death,  until  there  was  not  a  representative  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  left  among  men.  The  Bible  came  to  be  the 
only  surviving  witness  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ,  and  the  time 
finally  came  in  the  history  of  the  world  when  even  the  Bible  and 
its  teachings  were  confused,  and  men  who  professed  to  be  teachers 
of  the  doctrine  of  Christ  began  to  doubt  the  divinity  of  his  mission, 
and  when  this  time  arrived  infidelity  and  unbelief  began  to  spread 
more  abundantly  in  the  earth. 

The  Lord  saw  fit  in  his  wisdom  and  mercy  to  the  children  of 
men  to  bring  forth  another  witness  to  substantiate  the  teachings 
of  the  holy  Bible,  for  unknown  to  the  world  there  was  another 
witness  which  the  Lord  in  his  own  due  time  was  to  bring  forth, 
which  was  to  testify  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ  and  bear  witness  of 
his  work  which  had  been  instituted  on  the  western  continent,  for  in 
the  lonely  Hill  of  Cumorah  for  fourteen  hundred  years  this  mute 
witness  had  been  waiting  the  command  of  God  when  it  should 
come  forth  to  bear  witness  in  connection  with  the  Bible  that  God 
lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  the  plan  of  redemption  which 
he  instituted  was  the  same  today  that  it  had  been  in  all  ages  of  the 
world.  When  this  witness  came  out  the  whole  world  declared 
against  it,  that  it  was  not  divine,  but  the  Lord  gave  evidence  to  a 
few  or  his  servants  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  that  this  record 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


was  true,  and  since  the  world  was  in  such  a  deplorable  condition 
spiritually,  this  witness  came  forth  at  a  very  opportune  time. 

Joseph  Smith,  who  was  the  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  in 
introducing  the  Book  of  Mormon,  had  received  while  yet  in  his  boy- 
hood, one  of  the  most  glorious  and  wonderful  visions  ever  given  to 
mortal  man.  He  had  looked  into  the  face  of  the  Lord  and  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ,  and  had  heard  from  them  their  message  in  unmistak- 
able words  that  the  world  was  wrong,  that  they  had  changed  the 
ordinances  and  broken  the  everlasting  covenants,  and  that  the  Lord 
had  seen  fit  not  only  to  bring  forth  this  witness  of  which  we  have 
spoken,  but  to  reveal  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  the  gospel  in 
its  fullness  with  all  its  primitive  power  and  its  beauty,  with  every 
officer,  doctrine,  and  ordinance  which  had  been  promulgated  by 
Christ  and  his  apostles,  again  revealed  to  the  earth  with  the  power 
of  the  holy  Priesthood  to  officiate  in  these  ordinances  for  the  re- 
demption and  exaltation  of  God's  children. 

It  is  the  mission  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  make  proclamation 
to  the  world  of  the  things  that  the  Lord  has  done  in  our  day  and 
generation,  for  the  Lord  desires  that  we  should  make  known  to  the 
world  that  he  has  spoken  and  raised  up  an  ensign  unto  the  nations, 
and  that  his  servants  were  to  go  forth  with  all  the  earnestness, 
power  and  zeal  of  their  souls,  to  declare  to  the  people  of  this  genera- 
tion that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  a  divine  witness  and  that  it  bears 
record  that  Jesus  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world,  visited  the  Amer- 
ican continent  after  his  cricifixion  and  resurrection,  and  estab- 
lished among  the  residents  of  the.  western  world  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ ;  and  that  he  effected  his  organization  among 
them  with  apostles,  prophets  pastors  and  teachers  just  as  he  had 
done  among  the  Jews. 

As  missionaries  and  elders  of  the  Church,  we  are  bearing  wit- 
ness of  these  things  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  and  declaring  to 
them  with  all  the  sincerity  and  seriousness  of  our  souls  that  these 
things  are  true. 

Many  people  believe  that  "Mormonism"  doesn't  bring  anything 
of  importance  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  but  those  of  us  who 
have  become  acquainted  with  its  teachings,  are  convinced  more  and 
more  that  we  stand  in  the  same  relationship  to  the  world  that  the 
Apostle  Paul  occupied  when  he  went  on  to  Mars  Hill  and  saw  the 
inscription  "To  the  unknown  God"  and  said  to  the  people  on  that 
occasion :  "You  are  altogether  too  superstitious,  for  whom  you 
ignorantly  worship,  him  declare  I  unto  you."  The  elders  and  mis- 
sionaries of  this  Church  are  in  the  world  to  tell  the  people  of  this 
generation  that  they  are  altogether  too  superstitious  and  that  they 
have  an  unknown  God  whom  they  are  ignorantly  worshiping,  and 
him  we  are  declaring  unto  this  generation,  for  be  it  remembered 
that  the  angel  whom  John  saw  fly  through  the  midst  of  heaven 
was  carrying  the  Everlasting  Gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell 
on  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation,  and  kindred,  and  tongue  and 


ELDER  JOHN  G.  ALLRED 


people,  saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God  and  give  glory  to  him, 
for  the  hour  of  his  judgment  is  come:  and  worship  him  that  made 
heaven,  and  earth,  and  the  sea  and  the  fountains  of  water. 

The  God  of  heaven  who  made  the  seas  and  the  fountains  of 
water  was  a  personal  God  that  we  are  declaring  unto  the  inhabi- 
tants of  the  earth,  a  personal  God  who  speaks  to  man,  not  two 
thousand  years  ago,  but  now,  and  we  are  bearing  witness  with  all 
the  power  of  our  souls  that  God  has  raised  up  a  prophet  in  this  day 
and  age  who  has  the  power  and  the  authority  to  say  to  this  genera- 
tion, "Thus  saith  the  Lord."  Not  two  thousands  years  ago,  but 
today  to  this  particular  generation,  this  is  our  message.  This  is  our 
witness  and  we  rejoice  before  the  Lord  that  we  are  privileged  to 
engage  in  his  ministry  to  prune  the  vineyard  for  the  last  time,  pre- 
paratory for  the  coming  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  S.  YOUNG 

President  of  the  Northwestern,  States  Mission 

Dear  Brethren  and  Sisters :  It  is  a  great  pleasure  to  know  that 
the  great  congregations  which  fill  the  buildings  provided  for  our  annual 
and  semi-annual  conferences,  are  being  supplied  with  the  necessary 
spiritual  food  to  enable  them  to  live  their  lives  as  our  heavenly  Father 
desires. 

The  world  needs  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  because  of  the  almost 
hopeless  condition  of  human  spiritual  thought.  The  world  lacks  the 
idealism  the  gospel  furnishes,  in  that  it  does  not  know  the  objects  of 
earthly  life.  If 'men  knew  their  destiny,  the  object  of  their  creation, 
and  God's  purposes  concerning  them,  they  would  not  drift  to  the 
extremes  of  folly  and  crime  which  are  everywhere  so  apparent.  The 
"Mormon"  people  are  blessed  with  knowledge  of  what  God  intends  in 
giving  us  mortality.  Men  flounder  in  the  mazes  of  human  understand- 
ing attempting  to  solve  the  problems  of  life  from  "human  basis"  of 
understanding.  To  attempt  to  explain  why  we  are  here  from  purely 
human  sources  of  information  is  impossible,  and  unless  we  include  God 
and  what  he  has  taught  us,  through  the  revelations  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  it  is  impossible  for  us  to  comprehend  life  or  its  possibilities. 

The  theology  of  the  world  has  involved  men  in  such  a  maze  of 
incomprehensibility  that  no  consistent  conclusions  are  possible.  Many 
cannot  reconcile  the  teachings  of  Christianity,  either  with  the  scripture 
or  with  common-sense,  because  of  the  inconsistency  of  its  professed 
teachers. 

It  is  a  great  thing  to  have  the  assurance  that  we  had  a  place  and 
being  with  our  Father  before  we  came  to  earth ;  to  know  that  we  had 
a  spirit  life  and  companionship  and  understanding,  and  that  our  experi- 
ences and  attainments  opened  for  us  the  possibilities  and  experiences  we 
are  enjoying  in  mortality;  to  know  that  through  the  birth  into  mortality 
and  the  uniting  of  the  spirit  and  the  body  we  can  attain  to  what  God 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


has  destined  respecting  our  future;  that  through  the  acceptance  and 
faithfulness  to  the  gospel  we  can  reach  higher  stages  of  development 
and  that  eternal  progress  lies  before  us,  if  we  shall  comply  with  what 
the  Almighty  has  taught  and  demands  of  us  in  the  observance  of  the 
principles  of  revealed  religion.  If  men  could  be  convinced  of  the  pos- 
sibilities of  eternal  development  and  progress,  and  that  attainment  is  not 
limited  to  mortality,  there  would  be  a  greater  striving  among  men  to 
lead  better  lives,  to  accomplish  more  good,  to  attain  to  higher  develop- 
ment, than  they  are  now  striving  for,  through  a  lack  of  the  knowledge 
of  the  gospel. 

Men  of  the  world  do  not  appreciate  the  truth  because  they  do  not 
know  it.  If  they  knew  that  every  wrong  done  had  to  be  righted ;  if 
they  knew  that  every  obligation  contracted  had  to  be  discharged;  if 
they  knew  that  they  would  be  literally  judged  according  to  their  records, 
there  would  be  much  greater  care  exercised  in  their  conduct  in  life.  The 
Latter-day  Saints,  through  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
know  what  life  means.  How  they  may  eternally  progress;  how  they 
may  acquire  an  ever-widening  field  of  intelligence  until  in  time  they 
shall  possess  capability  to  assume  positions  of  power,  that  are  now  incon- 
ceivable to  them.  If  men  knew  their  chosen  lines  of  endeavor,  that 
they  could  eternally  continue  to  progress,  it  would  furnish  them  an 
incentive  to  labor  in  intelligent  righteousness.  Philosophers  and  scien- 
tists, if  they  knew  that  their  work  could  be  extended  into  the  eternities, 
and  they  become  masters  of  information  that  would  give  them  incon- 
ceivable power,  they  would  accept  the  gospel  and  would  live  it  right- 
eously and  rigorously  because  of  their  great  desire  for  progressive 
development.  It  is  given  us  to  know  these  things  and  we,  therefore, 
are  a  highly  blessed  people. 

Compared  with  the  idealism  of  "Mormonism,"  there  is  nothing  in 
literature  or  science  that  reaches  the  wonderful  possibilities  of  that  which 
God  has  supplied  in  giving  us  a  knowledge  of  the  truth.  Men  can 
only  be  brought  to  a  comprehension  of  these  marvelous  truths  by  accept- 
ing the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  How  necessary  it  is,  then,  that  through 
diligent  preparation,  we  should  fit  ourselves  to  make  adequate  appeal  to 
men  of  high  intellectual  understanding.  For  that  reason  we  encourage 
in  our  community  the  highest  standards  of  education,  and  it  is  for  that 
reason  that,  as  missionaries,  we  are  continually  striving  ior  higher 
and  higher  planes  of  intellectual  as  well  as  spiritual  power.  Men  are 
saved  only  as  fast  as  they  get  knowledge,  which  means  that  they  can  only 
have  that  to  which  they  are  entitled,  and  as  we  develop  or  educate  our 
bodies  through  observance  of  the  laws  of  life,  so  will  those  bodies  be 
prepared  to  go  into  the  degree  of  power  and  glory  that  we  have  edu- 
cated or  developed  ourselves  to  fill.  There  is  no  limit  to  human  achieve- 
ment, so  it  follows  that  there  will  be  none  to  eternal  achievement. 

God  help  us  to  understand,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  my  prayer 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  girls'  chorus  sang:  "Lift  thine  eyes." 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


83 


ELDER  CHAS.  A.  CALLIS 

President  of  the  South'ern  States  Mission 

I  pray  that  I  may  be  led  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  the  re- 
marks that  I  shall  make  so  that  they  may  be  edifying  and  faith 
promoting.  The  fatness  of  the  fields  in  these  peaceful  vales,  the 
abundant  crops  with  which  God  has  blessed  the  people,  ought  to  fill 
our  hearts  to  overflowing  with  gratitude  to  the  Giver  of  every  good 
and  precious  gift. 

As  I  have  looked  over  these  fruitful  fields  I  have  thought  of 
the  words  of  the  Savior  in  which  he  described  the  growth  of  the 
crops,  leading  up  to  the  harvest.  The  Master  says :  "For  the  earth 
bringeth  forth  fruit  of  herself ;  first,  the  blade ;  then  the  ear,  after 
that  the  full  corn  in  the  ear."  (Mark  4:28.)  Truly  we  are  rejoicing 
in  the  "full  corn  in  the  ear." 

Faith,  sacrifice  and  obedience  must  precede  blessings.  We  are 
told  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  that  we  receive  no  reward  until  after 
the  trial  of  our  faith.  This  great  lesson  the  Savior  teaches  in  John 
12:24.  He  says:  "Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  except  a  corn  of 
wheat  fall  into  the  ground  and  die,  it  abideth  alone ;  but  if  it  die,  it 
bringeth  forth  much  fruit." 

If  the  farmers  had  been  content  to  let  their  golden  corn  and 
wheat  remain  securely  stored  in  the  granaries  there  would  not  have 
been  these  bounteous  crops  to  sustain  life.  The  husbandmen  with 
faith  and  sacrifice  took  the  wheat,  corn  and  other  seeds,  planted 
them  in  the  ground,  watched  for  the  blade,  cultivated  it  when  it  ap- 
peared, until  it  developed  into  the  "full  corn  in  the  ear."  God  gives 
the  increase.  ! 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  has  grown 
great  in  service  and  sacrifice.  This  Church  will  always  be  a  mis- 
sionary church,  and  its  glorious  work  will  be  performed  in  a  spirit 
of  service  and  sacrifice.  Sacrifice  will  bring  forth  the  blessings  of 
heaven. 

The  Lord,  of  course,  in  the  verse  which  I  have  quoted  was 
foreshadowing  his  own  death  and  the  eternal  blessings  his  atone- 
ment and  resurrection  would  place  within  the  reach  of  mankind. 
Because  he  lives,  we  also  shall  live.  Though  he  was  rich,  yet  for 
our  sakes  he  became  poor,  and  we,  through  his  poverty,  as  the 
Apostle  Paul  says,  have  become  eternally  rich.  The  fruits  of  the 
death  and  the  resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ  are  holy  and  glorious. 

We  should  not  accept  the  blessings  of  God,  the  harvests  of  the 
fields,  as  a  matter  of  course.  They  are  gifts  from  the  Creator.  In 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Sections  59:21,  we  read,  "And  in  noth- 
ing doth  man  offend  God,  or  against  none  is  his  wrath  kindled, 
save  those  who  confess  not  his  hand  in  all  things,  and  obey  not  his 
commandments."  The  Lord  is  willing  for  us  to  enjoy  the  good 
things  of  this  life  in  moderation  and  wisdom ;  provided  we  receive 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


them  "from  the  hand  of  the  Lord  with  a  thankful  heart  in  all 
things." 

Even  in  affliction  it  is  well  to  acknowledge  his  hand.  "Before 
I  was  afflicted,"  the  Psalmist  David  said,  "I  went  astray ;  but  now 
have  I  kept  thy  word.  It  is  good  for  me  that  I  have  been  afflicted ; 
that  I  might  learn  thy  statutes.  The  law  of  thy  mouth  is  better 
unto  me  than  thousands  of  gold  and  silver."  (Psalms  119:67,  71, 
72.) 

Sins  unrepented  of  bring  a  penalty ;  for  God  will  bring  every 
work  into  judgment.  An  ancient  prophet  said:  "Rejoice,  O  young 
man,  in  thy  youth;  and  let  thy  heart  cheer  thee  in  the  days  of  thy 
youth,  and  walk  in  the  ways  of  thine  heart,  and  in  the  sight  of  thine 
eyes :  but  know  thou  that  for  all  these  things  God  will  bring  thee 
into  judgment."  (Eccl.  11 :9.)  They  who  sow  their  wild  oats  shall 
reap  a  harvest  of  trouble.  "For  whatsoever  a  man  soweth  that 
shall  he  also  reap."  He  that  soweth  the  wind  shall  reap  the  whirl- 
wind. 

Forgiveness,  like  repentance,  is  not  always  obtained  for  the 
asking.  Sins  cannot  go  unpunished.  Repentance,  without  the  of- 
fender making  all  the  restitution  that  it  is  in  the  power  of  his  hand 
to  make,  is  as  dead  as  faith  without  works. 

We  are  told  in  holy  writ  that  Satan  provoked  David  to  number 
Israel.  It  was  the  "time  that  kings  go  out  to  battle."  God  was 
displeased.  He  sent  his  prophet  to  David.  "So  Gad  came  to  David 
and  said  unto  him.  Thus  saith  the  Lord,  choose  thee,  either  three 
years'  famine;  or  three  months  to  be  destroyed  before  thy  foes, 
*  *  *  or  else  three  days  the  sword  of  the  Lord,  even  pestilence 
in  the  land,  and  the  angel  of  the  Lord  destroying  throughout  all  the 
coasts  of  Israel.  *  *  *  And  David  said  unto  Gad,  I  am  in  a 
great  strait ;  let  me  fall  now  into  the  hand  of  the  Lord ;  for  very 
great  are  his  mercies ;  but  let  me  not  fall  into  the  hand  of  man.  So 
the  Lord  sent  pestilence  upon  Israel."  (I  Chronicles  21.)  Let  us 
take  these  lessons  to  heart  for  they  were  written  for  our  admoni- 
tion. Before  the  day  of  trouble  comes  let  us  make  the  Lord  of 
hosts  our  friend.  Don't  wait  until  judgments  come  before  repent- 
ing.  Now  is  the  time  to  repent. 

A  great  deal  of  the  South  has  been  afflicted  with  a  severe 
drouth  this  summer.  Fields  "are  desolate  and  bare.  Brimming 
rivers  have  dwindled  to  small  streams.  The  governor  of  Georgia 
issued  a  proclamation  to  the  people  of  that  state  in  which  he  called 
on  them  to  "humble  themselves,  acknowledge  their  sins,  and  make 
supplication  for  relief  from  present  distressing  conditions."  Simi- 
lar proclamations  were  issued  by  the  governors  of  South  Carolina 
and  Virginia.  It  would  not  be  long  before  the  beautiful  southland 
would  be  transformed  into  a  land  of  desolation  if  the  heavens  did 
not  give  showers  to  satisfy  the  thirsty  soil. 

The  Lord,  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  section  101,  says  of 
those  people  who  in  the  days  of  prosperity  were  slow  to  hearken 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALL1S 


85 


unto  him :  "In  the  day  of  their  peace  they  esteemed  lightly  my 
counsel ;  but  in  the  day  of  their  trouble,  of  necessity  they  feel  after 
me. 

The  mission  of  the  Church  is  to  fill  the  earth  with  the  knowl- 
edge of  the  Lord.  We  are  divinely  commissioned  to  perform  this 
mission.  In  the  doing  of  this  duty  there  is  peace  and  joy  that 
passeth  all  understanding.  The  Lord  is  with  us.  Without  him 
we  are  nothing.  We  know  and  testify  that  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of 
God,  is  the  Redeemer,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God. 

I  pray  that  we  will  keep  foremost  in  our  lives  and  affections 
our  mission  on  earth,  and  that  our  precious  testimony  will  fill  our 
souls,  our  whole  beings,  with  a  constant,  broad  and  a  glowing  light, 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 

President  of  the  W estern  States  Mission 

The  splendid  discourses  delivered  this  morning  have  been  a 
real  inspiration  to  me.  I  hope  they  have  made  a  deep  impression 
upon  your  souls.  We  need  the  gospel  of  repentance  preached  at 
home  as  well  as  abroad.  I  believe  the  home  to  be  the  place  where 
our  children  should  be  taught  the  things  they  should  know  with 
respect  to  virtue,  honesty,  temperance,  truthfulness,  etc.  I  fear 
there  is  a  false  modesty  existing  between  many  fathers  and  their 
sons,  likewise  between  mothers  and  daughters,  and  our  young 
people  often  get  the  wrong  impressions  of  life  from  their  associates 
instead  of  being  told  the  things  they  ought  to  know  by  their 
parents. 

I  appreciate  the  splendid  auxiliary  organizations  we  have  in 
the  Church,  and  the  wonderful  influence  they  are  having  upon  the 
lives  of  our  young  men  and  women  in  creating  within  them  faith 
in  God  and  inspiring  them  with  a  testimony  of  the  gospel  and  the 
divine  mission  of  Jesus  Christ.  All  these  things  are  fine,  but 
parents,  too,  have  a  great  responsibility. 

I  have  faith  in  the  youth  of  Zion,  I  believe  in  them.  No  finer 
or  cleaner  men  and  women  can  be  found  anywhere  than  those  who 
come  into  the  mission  field.  I  count  it  a  blessed  privilege  to  be  as- 
sociated with  them.  Without  exception  they  are  developing  into 
splendid  representatives  of  the  Church  capable  of  giving  a  reason 
for  the  hope  that  is  within  them. 

While  the  religious  world  is  being  split  wide  open  over  the 
most  fundamental  doctrines  of  Christian  faith,  while  churches  are 
divided  and  pastors  forced  to  resign  because  of  their  modernistic 
views,  and  the  intellectuals  are  ridiculing  religion,  calling  it  super- 
stition, good  enough  to  hold  the  ignorant  in  check,  our  mission- 
aries are  going  right  ahead  preaching  the  gospel  of  repentance,  and 
contending  for  the  faith  once  delivered  to  the  Saints.  There  is  no 
schism,  no  controversy,  no  difference  of  opinion  with  respect  to  the 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


saving  ordinances  of  the  gospel,  to  be  found  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  am  frequently  asked  why  we  do  not 
center  our  efforts  on  the  heathen  in  Africa,  and  other  foreign  coun- 
tries, rather  than  here  in  Christian  America!  Some  feel  we  have 
no  right  to  proselyte  among  members  of  other  churches.  My 
answer  has  been  that  our  message  is  to  every  nation,  kindred, 
tongue  and  people,  and  is  as  much  needed  in  this  country  as  any- 
where in  the  world.  We  have  a  message  for  all  people  if  they  will 
but  receive  it.  We  have  no  apology  to  offer  for  our  presence  in  the 
world.  God  has  again  spoken  from  the  heavens  and  established 
his  work  in  the  earth;  we  are  his  representatives  and  the  gospel  we 
preach  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation. 

In  the  World's  Work  for  Feb.,  1924,  W.  P.  Merrill  makes  this 
statement : 

"It  is  time  we  were  facing  the  question:  What  right  has  a  denomina- 
tion to  exist?  It  is  plain  truth  that  no  organization  of  men  or  women  has 
a  right  to  call  itself  a  Christian  church  which  is  not  built  on  Christ's  line. 
*  *  *  *  If  Christ  did  not  found  the  Church  and  lay  down  its  lines,  it  has  no 
divine  authority.  If  he  did,  then  to  change  those  lines  to  alter  conditions, 
to  demand  what  he  did  not  demand,  to  insist  on  that  which  he  ignored  is 
indefensible." 

We  are  glad  to  face  the  question,  because  we  are  built  upon 
Christ's  lines.  He  is  the  author  of  our  faith,  the  founder  of  our 
Church,  and  is  the  chief  corner  stone  upon  which  it  is  built.  We  are 
demanding  only  that  which  he  demanded :  implicit  obedience  to  the 
ordinances  of  the  gospel,  and  we  teach  that  every  doctrine  and  prin  • 
ciple  advocated  and  taught  by  Christ  and  his  apostles  is  part  of  the 
great  plan  of  salvation.  We  affirm  that  we  have  divine  authority  to 
teach  the  gospel  and  administer  in  the  ordinances  thereof.  We 
declare  that  holy  angels  have  been  sent  from  the  very  presence  of 
the  Christ  to  restore  the  holy  Priesthood,  and  to  commission  men 
with  authority  to  organize  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  upon  the 
earth.  We  identify  the  angels,  Moroni,  John  the  Baptist,  Peter, 
James,  John,  Moses,  Elias,  Elijah;  we  state  when  they  came,  where 
they  came  to,  and  what  they  said  and  did.  We  affirm  that  we  have 
the  same  kind  of  an  organization  that  existed  in  the  primitive 
Church,  with  apostles,  prophets,  pastors,  teachers,  evangelists, 
elders,  seventies,  high  priests,  bishops,  priests,  teachers,  and  dea- 
cons ;  that  they  are  in  the  work  for  the  perfecting  of  the  Saints,  the 
work  of  the  ministry  and  the  edifying  of  the  body  of  Christ,  and  that 
they  will  continue  in  the  Church  until  there  is  unity  of  faith  in  the 
world.  We  invite  the  most  searching  investigation  of  our  claims, 
and  go  so  far  as  to  declare  if  men  and  women  will  make  that  in- 
vestigation, with  a  sincere  desire  to  know  the  truth,  God  will  mani- 
fest it  unto  them  by  the  power  of  his  Spirit.  Furthermore,  we  are 
making  no  compromise ;  we  are  not  altering  conditions  or  changing 
gospel  ordinances. 

Recently  I  was  in  Grand  Island,  Nebraska.  A  convention  of 
one  of  the  great  Protestant  churches,  for  that  district,  was  in  ses- 
sion.   Baptism  was  being  discussed.    One  of  those  present  said, 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 


87 


"Baptism  when  properly  administered,  is  a  beautiful  and  inspira- 
tional sight,  that  is  why  we  are  reluctant  about  giving  it  up."  Think 
of  it!  Not  because  it  is  a  commandment  from  God,  not  because  it 
is  the  door  into  the  fold  of  Christ,  not  because  it  is  the  only  ordi- 
nance through  which  we  may  receive  a  remission  of  sins,  not  be- 
cause it  is  an  outward  sign  of  an  inward  grace,  the  answering  of  a 
good  conscience  toward  God,  but  because  it  is  a  beautiful  and  in- 
spirational sight.  Such  trifling  with  sacred  things  can  have  but 
one  effect ;  the  destroying  of  faith  in  religion  as  a  means  of  salva- 
tion. I  am  grateful  to  belong  to  a  Church  which  states  its  position 
in  very  definite,  concrete  terms  upon  all  these  matters  that  are  so 
vital  to  the  Christian  faith. 

I  testify  to  you  that  I  know  God  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the 
very  Son  of  God,  and  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  and  is  a  Prophet  of  the  living  God ;  that  what  is  known  to  the 
world  today  as  "Mormonism"  is  the  gospel  of  Christ;  which  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation.  I  pray  that  we  may  have  a  broad 
vision  of  our  responsibilities,  that  we  may  give  loyal  and  willing 
service  to  the  cause  which  is  so  dear  to  our  hearts,  that  we  may 
all  be  saved  in  our  Fathers'  kingdom,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

At  the  close  the  choir  sang,  "Hosannah." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  F.  F.  Hintze. 

FOURTH  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

A  fourth  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  Barratt  Hall,  Sunday, 
October  4,  at  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

Elder  David  A.  Smith  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  presided. 

Music  was  furnished  by  the  Tenth  ward  choir  under  the  direc- 
tion of  Norman  Martin. 

The  choir  sang,  "How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the 
Lord." 

Elder  John  L.  Anderson,  of  the  Granite  Stake  Y.  M.  M.  I.  A., 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  choir  sang,  "Rouse,  ye  mortals." 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

President  of  the  Central  States  Mission 

I  desire,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  my  remarks  may  be 
directed  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  that  I  may  be  led  to  say  that 
which  the  Lord  would  have  me  say  here  today.  I  have  enjoyed 
the  spirit  of  this  conference  very  much  and  was  much  impressed 
with  the  remarks  of  President  Grant  in  his  sermon  this  morning, 
and  was  led  to  conclude  that  it  is  always  safe  to  refer  to  the  word 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  the  Lord  in  preaching  the  gospel.  It  is  more  necessary  than  it 
has  ever  been,  it  appears  to  me,  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  should 
familiarize  themselves  with  the  revelations  of  God  to  his  people 
in  this  day,  when  doubt  and  theory  are  everywhere  present,  leading 
so  many  of  the  children  of  men  away  from  God. 

Solomon  said,  "Where  there  is  no  vision,  the  people  perish" 
(Proverbs  29:18),  and  had  it  not  been  for  revelation  from  our 
Father  in  heaven  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the  entire  world 
would  be  perishing  in  unbelief,  and  the  correct  form  of  worship 
would  not  be  known  in  the  earth,  neither  would  there  be  the  cer- 
tain knowledge  that  God  lives.  Thousands  of  our  young  people 
throughout  the  land  today  are  being  taught  the  Darwinian  theory, 
and  many  of  them  are  accepting  it  as  a  fact,  and  not  as  a  theory, 
which  it  is.  The  Latter-day  Saints  believe  in  the  evolution  tend- 
ing to  progress,  but  not  according  to  the  theory  that  is  being  so 
prominently  placed  before  the  young  people  of  our  country  in  the 
schools  of  today. 

There  is  a-  lack  of  faith  in  God  among  the  children  of  men,  and 
men  are  trying  in  their  own  wisdom  to  account  for  the  creation  of 
the  world  and  the  creation  of  the  human  family.  How  much  better 
it  is  to  believe  in  the  gospel  of  Christ,  our  Lord,  as  recorded  in  the 
Bible,  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and 
in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  Light  and  peace  and  joy  come  through 
the  study  of  the  holy  scriptures.  To  believe  that  we  are  the  chil- 
dren of  God,  and  that  we  are  made  in  his  image,  is  elevating  and 
inspiring,  while  to  believe  that  we  have  descended  from  some  lower 
form  of  life  has  no  such  result.  All  people  take  a  natural  pride  in 
feeling  that  they  have  been  born  of  goodly  parents,  that  they  come 
through  an  honorable  line  of  ancestry.  Associated  with  that,  to 
feel  and  to  know  that  God  is  truly  our  Father,  and  that  we  are  made 
in  his  image,  brings  true  happiness.  But  were  it  not  for  the  fact 
that  God  revealed  himself  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  this 
dispensation,  a  true  knowledge  of  God  could  not  be  found  in  the 
earth.  If  the  men  who  are  moulding  the  lives  of  our  young  people 
throughout  this  great  land  would  give  more  time  to  the  study  of  the 
holy  scriptures,  they  would  gain  more  true  knowledge  of  the  origin 
and  purpose  of  life  than  they  ever  will  gain  from  the  study  of  rocks 
and  fossils,  and  the  minds  of  our  young  people  would  receive  an 
inspiration  that  would  lead  them  to  live  better  lives.  The  Honor- 
able William  Jennings  Bryan  said  that  men  should  be  more  in- 
terested in  the  "Rock  of  Ages  than  in  the  ages  of  rocks,"  and  I 
heartily  agree  with  him. 

No  man  can  obtain  a  knowledge  that  God  lives,  that  he  made 
man  in  his  image,  and  that  he  has  revealed  himself  in  this  dispensa- 
tion to  men  in  the  earth,  except  he  places  himself  in  a  condition  to 
receive  the  impression  of  the  holy  Spirit  of  God,  which  leads  to 
him ;  and  no  man  can  find  God  except  he  walks  in  the  paths  which 
God,  our  heavenly  Father,  has  ordained. 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


89 


Joseph  Smith  testified  to  the  world  that  he  had  seen  God  the 
Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  they  are  tangible  beings, 
for  he  saw  with  his  own  eyes  that  he  was  made  in  their  image.  He 
bore  testimony  to  the  world  that  an  angel  of  God  delivered  unto 
him  the  plates  from  which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  translated, 
and  that  the  truths  contained  in  that  book  were  given  unto  him  to 
be  distributed  in  all  the  world,  as  a  witness  that  the  God  of  heaven 
has  truly  revealed  himself  to  men  in  this  dispensation.  We  have 
also  the  testimony  of  the  three  witnesses  to  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
that  an  angel  of  God  appeared  to  them,  and  brought  and  laid  before 
their  eyes  the  plates  from  which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  trans- 
lated. In  addition  to  that,  eight  witnesses  saw  the  plates,  and  they 
also  bore  testimony  of  the  fact  to  the  world.  Is  not  the  testimony 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  these  eleven  witnesses  worthy 
of  consideration  ?  Is  it  not  more  reasonable  for  us  to  conclude  that 
it  is  true  than  it  is  for  us  to  believe  in  the  unproven  theories  of  men 
who  have  tried  to  solve  the  problem  of  life  in  their  own  way  and 
have  failed? 

In  my  judgment  it  is  wrong  to  teach  the  youth  of  this  great 
nation  such  theories  as  would  lead  them  to  conclude  that  we  are 
not  truly  the  children  of  God,  made  in  his  image,  as  men  have 
testified  who  have  seen  God,  both  in  this  generation  and  in  the 
generations  of  the  past.  Is  it  not  more  reasonable  to  believe  that 
God  made  man  in  his  image  than  it  is  to  believe  that  we  have  come 
up  from  the  lower  forms  of  life  ?  Is  it  not  more  reasonable  to  be- 
lieve that  this  world  was  made  by  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord,  under  the 
direction  of  God  the  eternal  Father,  and  that  Jesus  made  the  world 
before  he  was  tabernacled  in  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones,  as  the 
Scriptures  testify?  Is  it  not  reasonable  to  believe  that  God  fore- 
ordained prophets,  as  we  read  in  Jeremiah,  first  chapter,  and  that 
we  were  in  an  ante-mortal  state  able  to  act  and  to  perform  works 
.  under  the  direction  of  our  eternal  Father — the  Father  of  our  spirits 
— who  gave  us  bodies  in  the  beginning,  and  that  our  parentage  goes 
back  to  that  eternal  Sire  who  governs  and  controls  the  destinies  of 
men,  according  to  their  obedience  to  law? 

I  prefer  to  believe  the  things  that  God  has  revealed  to  me,  by 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  rather  than  to  believe  the  theories  of 
men  who  have  not  that  witness.  I  prefer  to  believe  that  God  our 
Father  did  not  leave  his  sons  and  daughters  here  on  the  earth  with- 
out a  true  witness  that  he  is  our  Father,  and  that  we  have  been 
given  this  earthly  existence,  with  its  duties  and  experiences,  to 
prove  ourselves  whether  we  are  worthy  to  be  exalted  and  glorified 
with  his  faithful  sons  and  daughters  or  whether  we  are  not,  for  if  we 
prove  ourselves  worthy  we  can  return  unto  him,  and  if  we  do  not 
prove  ourselves  worthy  we  cannot  return  unto  him. 

I  never  saw  Joseph  Smith,  nor  any  of  the  eleven  witnesses  to 
the  Book  of  Mormon ;  but  I  have  received  a  witness  from  God, 
through  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  our  heavenly  Father  and 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


his  Son  Jesus  Christ  did  appear  to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  that  the  men 
who  have  testified  concerning  the  Book  of  Mormon  have  told  the 
truth,  and  that  the  work  we  are  engaged  in  is  truly  the  work  of  God. 
Through  this  witness  I  know  that  I  am  his  son,  and  that  he  is  my 
eternal  Father,  and  that  neither  my  body  nor  any  part  of  it  has 
come  from  any  other  form  of  life  than  the  life  that  now  produces 
humankind.  Our  Father's  decrees  are  unalterable,  and  so  are  his 
plans  concerning  the  destiny  of  the  human  family.  Men  may  seek 
by  every  means  conceivable  to  disprove  the  truth  as  God  has  re- 
vealed it  to  his  servants  in  ancient  as  well  as  in  modern  times ;  but 
the  time  will  come,  and  I  bear  witness  of  it,  that  they  will  be 
weighed  in  the  balance  and  found  wanting.  May  we  cherish  the 
truth,  as  God  has  revealed  it  again  in  these  latter  days,  for  the  salva- 
tion of  the  children  of  men,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

I  appreciate  the  privilege  of  meeting  with  you  good  people  in 
the  conference  meeting,  at  Barratt  Hall.  I  am  sure  that  there  is 
always  a  desire  in  our  hearts  to  learn  of  the  gospel  and  to  partake 
of  the  good  spirit  that  always  prevails  in  our  conference  meetings. 

A  few  days  ago,  a  young  lady  asked  my  why  it  was  that  there 
were  so  many  young  people  who  did  not  have  a  testimony  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  In  our  conversation  I  told  her  that  I  be- 
lieved it  was  because  the  young  people  were  not  giving  the  atten- 
tion to  these  matters  in  the  same  degree  that  they  were  giving  their 
attention  to  other  things.  I  am  of  the  opinion  that  there  is  a  senti- 
ment among  some  of  our  young  people  that  a  testimony  of  the  gos- 
pel will  come  to  them  in  some  peculiar  way,  and  that  all  they  have 
to  do  is  to  sit  around  and  wait  for  it.  Others  expect  the  testimony 
to  be  theirs,  irrespective  of  the  lives  they  live,  or  the  attention  they 
give  to  the  observance  of  the  laws  and  commandment  of  the  Lord. 
However,  we  as  a  people  know  that  no  one  can  receive  a  testimony 
of  the  gospel  without  searching  for  it,  and  observing  the  conditions 
upon  which  a  knowledge  is  founded. 

We  do  not  apply  the  same  principles  of  reasoning  to  our  relig- 
ious experience  as  we  do  to  other  affairs  of  life.  The  student  would 
not  expect  to  go  into  school  and  acquire  a  knowledge  of  the  subject 
under  consideration  without  considrable  study  and  application.  For 
example,  a  student  who  is  studying  chemistry  would  not  think  of 
combining  two  acids  and  getting  the  proper  result  if  the  combina- 
tion were  not  the  correct  combination.  But  sometimes  in  religious 
affairs  he  feels  that  there  is  no  obligation  on  his  part  to  apply  the 
truths  he  has  received  in  religious  lines  as  he  applies  the  truths 
that  have  been  found  out  by  investigation  along  other  lines. 

A  testimony  of  the  gospej  can  only  come  to  people  who  are 
willing  to  apply  themselves  in  first  learning  the  gospel,  and  the 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 


91 


things  necessary  to  be  done  and  then  observing  and  putting  into 
practice  these  principles.  As  in  the  example  of  chemistry  the  result 
comes  after  a  time  when  the  proper  combination  is  made,  so  it  is 
with  the  gospel,  the  desired  result  cannot  be  obtained  except  by  the 
proper  application  of  the  truths  involved. 

We  occasionally  have  people  who  come  into  our  Church  with 
an  idea  that  something  very  remarkable  is  going  to  happen  to  them 
in  the  way  of  manifestations  or  miracles  that  will  be  an  outward 
demonstration  to  them  of  the  truthfulness  of  the  gospel,  confirming 
without  question  this  thing  that  they  have  believed  to  be  right. 
I  remember  a  young  man  who  had  investigated  the  principles  of 
the  gospel  and  done  some  research  work.  He  had  been  in  the 
war  and  had  been  injured  so  that  it  was  necessary  for  him  to  use 
crutches.  While  he  had  investigated  in  a  fair  way,  still  he  contin- 
ually had  doubts  and  questions  about  some  of  the  principles.  These 
doubts  kept  him  rather  undecided  as  to  whether  it  was  right  or 
wrong.  However,  eventually  he  decided  that  the  principles  were 
true,  and  felt  that  he  had  received  a  sufficient  testimony,  so  that  he 
applied  for  baptism.  On  coming  up  out  of  the  water,  I  am  con- 
vinced that  he  expected  to  be  healed  of  the  injury  that  he  had  re- 
ceived in  the  war  and  that  this  remarkable  miracle  or  blessing 
would  be  given  to  him  as  an  added  testimony,  removing  from  his 
mind  any  particular  doubt  that  he  had.  But  there  was  no  outward 
demonstration  of  the  power  of  the  Lord  in  his  behalf.  Hands  were 
laid  upon  his  head  and  he  was  confirmed  a  member  of  the  Church. 
He  went  along  for  awhile  rather  feeling  that  this  blessing  should 
come  to  him,  but  nothing  particular  was  given  to  him  as  far  as  an 
outward  demonstration  was  concerned.  Because  of  this  absence 
of  any  outward  sign,  he  decided  that  the  Church  was  not  true  and 
left  the  Church. 

We  had  another  case  where  a  woman  had  been  in  touch  with 
the  principles  of  the  gospel  from  her  childhood  but  had  not  taken 
the  opportunity  of  coming  into  the  Church.  In  the  later  years  of 
her  life,  she  felt  that  she  could  not  stay  out  any  longer,  because  of 
the  testimony  that  had  come  to  her,  the  truths  that  she  had  heard 
from  time  to  time,  as  the  elders  visited  at  her  father's  home.  She 
applied  for  baptism,  and  afterwards  she  expressed  herself  as  being 
rather  surprised  that  she  felt  no  particular  difference  after  being 
baptized  than  she  did  before.  It  was  her  idea  that  undoubtedly 
the  Lord  would  so  impress  her  that  she  would  know  beyond  any 
shadow  of  a  doubt  that  she  was  absolutely  right  in  coming  into 
the  Church.  Of  course,  in  a  way,  she  was  rather  disappointed  that 
this  outward  manifestation  was  not  given  to  her. 

I  am  of  the  opinion  that  often  our  young  people,  as  well  as  our 
older  people,  are  waiting  for  some  of  these  remarkable  things  to 
happen  to  them,  feeling  that  their  faith  all  at  once  will  be  made  al- 
most perfect  by  the  demonstration  that  they  will  receive  from  their 
heavenly  Father,  as  to  the  divinity  of  the  Church.   This  is  not  the 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


way  that  the  Lord  usually  acts  towards  his  people,  and  all  of  us 
will  be  rather  disappointed  if  our  faith  is  dependent  on  outward 
signs.  The  way  has  been  shown  and  marked  out  in  a  very  plain  and 
unmistakable  manner,  the  following  of  which  will  bring  us  safely 
to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth. 

I  sincerely  trust  that  our  young  people  will  feel  that  it  is  nec- 
essary for  them  to  follow  out  the  usual  methods  of  receiving  a 
testimony  observing  that  marked  path  which  has  been  given  to  us. 
If  they  will,  there  will  be  no  question  about  their  receiving  such 
manifestation,  the  power  of  the  Lord,  as  will  indicate  to  their  souls 
that  they  are  in  the  right  Church,  that  the  Lord  lives,  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  is  his  prophet  in  these  latter 
days. 

The  Lord  has  indicated  that  it  is  obligatory  on  the  part  of 
parents  to  teach  their  children  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  but  in 
the  final  analysis  of  the  thing,  it  is  quite  necessary  for  the  children 
themselves  to  investigate,  and  to  find  out  for  themselves  concern- 
ing the  truth  of  the  principles  that  have  been  taught  to  them  by 
their  parents. 

I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  will  do  what  we  can 
to  interest  our  sons  and  daughters  in  the  gospel,  and  guard  them 
along  intelligent  lines,  so  that  they  will  not  have  to  go  at  it  blindly. 
Then  they  may  be  shown  how  to  apply  the  principles  that  will 
bring  to  them  the  desired  blessings  and  the  testimony,  so  that  in 
the  end  our  young  people,  as  they  grow  to  manhood  and  woman- 
hood, will  not  be  left  in  doubt  as  to  the  truth  of  the  gospel.  They 
will  have  the  staunch,  firm  testimony  that  their  fathers  and  mothers 
had  because  of  their  application  of  the  principles  which  bring  a 
testimony. 

If  we  as  parents  will  only  do  our  part  and  follow  the  command- 
ments given  to  us,  as  far  as  teaching  our  children  are  concerned, 
the  boys  and  girls  will  continue  to  work  out  for  themselves  the 
different  processes  necessary  to  be  gone  through  in  order  to  get 
this  definite  knowledge  from  their  heavenly  Father. 

Let  us  live  the  gospel,  and  lay  up  treasures  in  heaven  by  keep- 
ing the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  so  that  when  the  time  comes 
that  we  are  especially  in  need  of  blessings,  we  can  draw  on  the 
account  that  we  have  with  the  Lord,  and  find  that  our  balance  is 
on  the  credit  side.  This  knowledge  will  give  us  greater  confidence 
in  going  to  the  Father,  in  faith,  for  blessings  that  we  may  stand 
so  much  in  need  of,  which  blessings  may  be  in  being  able  to  reach 
the  hearts  of  our  sons  and  daughters,  impress  them  with  the  testi- 
mony and  faith  of  their  Fathers. 

A  tenor  solo  was  sung  by  Charles  S.  Martin,  entitled,  "In  my 
Father's  house  are  many  mansions." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR. 
President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 
Never  in  my  life  have  I  felt  more  joy  and  happiness  in  proclaim- 
ing and  teaching  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  mankind  than  I  do  at 


ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR. 


93 


the  present  time.  It  seems  to  me  that  there  is  a  vital  need  of  the  simple 
faith  that  the  gospel  provides  among  the  children  of  men.  I  am  happy, 
therefore,  in  the  thought  that  we  as  Latter-day  Saints  stand  firmly 
on  the  ground  that  the  quality  of  faith  that  will  'bring  both  spiritual 
and  temporal  salvation  to  human  kind  is  the  kind  that  leads  us  to 
know  without  a  question  of  doubt  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  resur- 
rection and  the  life  of  man,  the  Redeemer  of  mankind,  and  that  through 
him  and  by  yielding  obedience  to  his  great  plan  of  life  we  are  to  become 
like  him  in  that  we  are  to  have  immortality  and  eternal  life. 

When  one  takes  into  consideration  the  fact  that  there  are  extant  in 
the  world  today  many  who  are  advocating  and  teaching  from  the  pulpit, 
in  homes,  in  conversation,  and  through  the  printed  pages  of  newspapers 
and  magazines,  the  idea  that  the  Son  of  God  was  merely  a  great  moral 
teacher  and  not  the  Savior  of  mankind,  that  the  mighty  works  he  did 
were  only  myths,  that  the  literal  resurrection  of  his  body  was  not  a 
fact,  then  it  seems  to  me  that  our  mission  should  be  more  intensified  in 
teaching  mankind  everywhere  the  necessity  of  cultivating  a  vital  faith 
in  him  so  that  the  witness  that  God  has  implanted  in  our  beings  will 
spring  up  into  everlasting  joy,  so  much  so  that  we  will  be  able  to 
impress  the  divinity  of  the  Christ  upon  the  hearts  of  those  with  whom 
it  is  our  privilege  to  meet  from  time  to  time. 

A  few  Sundays  ago,  together  with  some  of  my  missionary  com- 
panions, I  attended  the  services  in  a  very  fashionable  church  in  one  of 
the  great  cities  of  the  land.  We  were  interested  in  the  services,  and 
more  especially  in  the  sermon  delivered  by  the  minister  of  the  church. 
His  remarks  partook  more  or  less  of  the  changes  that  take  place  in  the 
lives  of  individuals  who,  when  they  are  touched  with  some  super- 
power that  brings  about  a  reformation  in  their  lives,  then  after  this 
change  they  step  out  and  devote  themselves  to  a  cause,  and  usually  the 
cause  is  along  the  lines  of  moral  subjects  which  they  teach  quite  relig- 
iously. His  sermon  was  built  upon  the  idea  that  we  must  be  touched 
with  a  supernatural  power  before  we  are  able  to  bring  to  pass  anything 
worth  while.  I  think  his  remarks  were  well  received  and  suggested,  at 
least,  the  idea  that  improvements  were  always  in  order  and  that  we 
arrive  at  great  heights  only  when  operated  upon  by  this  power  which 
gives  us  vision. 

I  have  often  told  missionaries  that  the  greatest  and  most  sacred 
thought  that  can  enter  the  hearts  of  men  is  a  thought  of  God,  and  then 
allow  that  thought  to  develop  and  expand  until  it  becomes  the  dominat- 
ing power  of  life.  A  pure  faith  must  be  built  upon  this  thought  of 
God.  He  is  the  greatest  we  know  and  a  knowledge  of  him  is  measured 
more  by  vital  faith  in  him  than  the  use  of  any  device  or  mental  process 
we  can  possibly  adopt.  We  can  soon  come  to  our  limitations  in  real 
faith  when  we  use  only  our  minds,  but  there  are  no  limitations  to  our 
faith  when  we  build  it  upon  spirituality.  If  we  were  to  judge  the  faith 
of  Moses  we  would  come  to  an  understanding  that  it  was  built  upon 
spiritual  power.    It  was  not  until  he  was  touched  by  the  light  of  God's 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Holy  Spirit  that  he  reached  the  zenith  of  his  power.  This  great  leader 
of  nations  knew  full  well  the  value  of  faith  in  God,  he  led  Israel  out  of 
bondage  because  his  trust  in  God  was  so  great  that  it  seemed,  as  we 
read  the  story,  that  he  could  talk  face  to  face  with  Jehovah  whenever 
the  occasion  required.  There  was  no  doubt,  it  seems,  of  a  perfect  under- 
standing as  to  where  he  would  receive  help  when  he  needed  it.  He 
also  was  conscious  of  the  fact  that  to  maintain  this  quality  of  faith  he 
must  devote  himself  to  living  righteously  before  God  daily. 

The  holy  scriptures  abound  in  testimonials  where  the  quality  of 
faith  has  always  been  operative  in  communing  with  God.  Indeed,  one 
is  inspired  when  he  reads  the  testimonies  of  the  prophets  regarding 
their  talks  with,  and  seeing,  God.  It  seems  that  faith  and  trust  in  God 
have  always  been  the  gateway  to  joy  and  happiness. 

In  the  days  of  the  Christ  great  principles  of  righteousness  were 
taught  and  lived  by  him  to  demonstrate  his  divinity  and  have  mankind 
believe  in  his  mighty  mission.  We  hear  him  constantly  telling  his 
followers  that  to  believe  in  him  was  to  have  faith  in  him  who  sent  him, 
and  that  to  know  him  and  his  Father  is  life  eternal. 

Let  us  pause  for  a  moment  and  feel  the  effect  that  the  Son  of 
God  had  upon  his  disciples  through  this  quality  of  faith.  He  had  made 
them  the  promise  that  when  he  went  away  he  would  send  the  Comforter, 
the  Holy  Ghost,  and  he,  the  Holy  Ghost,  would  teach  them  all  things, 
and  above  all  he  would  bear  witness  of  the  divinity  of  the  Christ. 
Mark  you,  when  Christ  was  gone  from  among  them  they  had  only  one 
alternative,  and  that  was  to  return  to  their  former  occupations.  Then 
it  was  that  they  were  touched  by  that  light  and  power,  and  by  their 
faith  in  the  things  that  the  Christ  had  taught  them  they  increased  their 
hope,  faith,  and  knowledge,  until  they  at  last  lost  no  time  in  doing  the 
works  that  he  had  taught  them  to  do.  Only  their  faith  impelled  them 
to  move  among  the  people  and  preach  Christ  and  him  crucified.  This 
faith,  as  their  shield,  went  with  the  most  of  them  to  a  martyr's  grave. 
A  faith  in  a  righteous  cause  will  live  after  men  are  dead  and  gone.  We 
know  what  it  means  to  have  a  vital  faith  in  our  Lord  and  Master. 
We  have  some  idea  of  the  character  of  work  we  must  do  to  enjoy  this 
kind  of  faith. 

It  is  written  by  a  gifted  writer : 

"Faith  is  a  necessary  faculty  of  the  soul;  the  power  by  which  we  commit 
ourselves  to  any  object  that  wins  our  devotion  and  commands  our  allegiance. 
No  man  avoids  its  use,  and  men  differ  only  in  the  objects  toward  which 
their  faith  is  directed.  Of  all  the  tragedies  caused  by  the  misuses  of  human 
powers,  none  is  more  frequent  and  disastrous  than  the  ruin  that  follows 
the  misuse  of  faith.  With  this  necessary  and  powerful  faculty  in  our  pos- 
session capable  of  use  on  things  high  or  low,  to  what  determination  can  a 
man  more  reasonably  set  imself  than  this — 'Since  I  must  and  do  use  faith  on 
something  I  will  choose  the  highest'?  It  is  with  such  a  rational  and  worthy 
choice  that  the  Christian  turns  to  Jesus.  He  is  the  best  we  know.  We  will 
direct  our  faith  toward  him.  This  does  not  mean  that  in  the  end  our  faith 
does  not  rest  on  God — it  does,  for  Jesus  is  the  way,  the  door,  as  he  has  said, 
faith  in  him  moves  us  up  through  him  to  the  One  who  sent  him. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR. 


95 


"Faith  in  Jesus  is  the  most  vivid,  true,  and  compelling  way  we  have  of 
committing  ourselves  to  the  highest  and  best  we  know.  In  the  light  of  this 
truth  we  can  understand  why  John  called  such  faith  the  supreme  work 
which  God  demands  of  us." 

This  very  hope  we  have  within  us  when  crystallized  into  a  vital 
faith  is  the  greatest  assurance  we  have  of  our  immortality  and  eternal 
life.  To  me,  this  thought  is  wonderful,  it  drives  me  on  in  that  channel 
whose  tributaries  are  ever  flowing  into  that  stream  of  faith  which  makes 
me  know  and  feel  the  Creator  and  Founder  of  the  eternal  plan  of  life. 
It  is  only  when  we  deal  in  the  complex  things  of  life  that  our  faith  in 
Christ  becomes  skeptical  and  doubtful.  The  things  that  Jesus  did  while 
here  upon  the  earth  were  simple  and  generous.  They  were  even  great 
and  powerful  in  their  simplicity.  They  added  joy  and  happiness  to 
those  who  were  affected.  Yet  we  find  many  today  who  are  trying 
to  belittle  and  destroy  faith  in  these  mighty  truths.  Who  is  there  here 
that  would  care  to  have  removed  from  the  scriptures  the  simple  story 
of  the  poor  woman  who  had  spent  all  her  twelve  years  earnings  on 
doctors  to  rid  herself  of  the  dread  disease  she  was  troubled  with?  Not 
one,  I'm  sure.  Yet  in  a  moment  of  aboslute  faith  in  the  Christ  and  his 
healing  power  she  has  left  us  an  example  of  pure  faith  that  cannot  be 
excelled.  In  face  of  opposition  she  declares  that  "If  I  can  but  touch  the 
hem  of  his  garment  I  shall  be  made  well."  Then  the  Savior,  with  all  the 
power  needed,  said  to  her,  "Be  made  clean.' '  Shall  we  let  this,  together 
with  all  the  other  incidents  filled  with  faith,  slip  away  from  holy 
writ  and  have  people  say  they  are  only  myths  ?  God  forbid.  There 
are  too  many  such  things  being  wrought  by  the  power  of  God  today 
to  permit  anything  to  come  along  and  mar  the  beauty  and  power  of 
this  circumstance  as  it  stands  in  the  Bible. 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  to  have  faith  in  God  and  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  greatest  thing  we  should  strive  for.  It  can  be 
ours,  this  great  gift  of  faith,  by  bringing  ourselves  to  our  knees  and  in 
the  silent  hour  of  prayer  asking  God  for  the  fortifying  power  of  his  holy 
Spirit,  and  by  responding  to  the  principles  of  righteousness  as  con- 
tained in  the  mighty  plan  of  life  and  salvation  established  by  our  Lord 
and  Master,  Jesus  Christ. 

I  bear  witness  with  all  the  power  I  have  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  that  through  him  the 
gospel  has  been  restored  in  power  and  authority.  I  do  humbly  pray  that 
our  faith  will  never  wane,  but  that  it  will  continue  to  develop  and  grow 
into  an  absolute  fellowship  with  God  and  his  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ANGUS  T.  WRIGHT 

Former  President  pf  the  New  Zealand  Mission 

My  dear  Brethren  and  Sisters:  I  rejoice  in  having  this  privi- 
lege of  addressing  you  for  a  few  moments  in  the  overflow  meet- 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ing.  My  remarks,  if  I  am  so  led,  will  be  more  in  the  nature  of  a 
report  of  the  labors  of  myself  and  wife  while  traveling  to  and  from 
New  Zealand  and  some  of  our  experiences  while  there. 

I  must  say  first  that  I  appreciate  the  honor  which  was  con- 
ferred upon  me  in  having  had  the  privilege  of  representing  the 
Church  of  God  in  that  far  off  foreign  land,  to  have  been  a  mes- 
senger of  salvation  to  those  who  are  in  darkness,  and  those  who 
know  not  the  plan  of  salvation. 

When  my  wife  and  I  were  set  apart  for  this  work,  we  were 
promised  that  we  should  be  blessed  and  preserved  to  go  in  peace 
and  to  return  in  safety,  and  if  we  were  faithful  and  diligent  we 
should  enjoy  the  promptings  of  the  Holy  Spirit  of  God.  I  want  to 
testify  here  and  now  that  those  promises  were  fulfilled  completely 
and  I  was  frequently  surprised  to  receive  impressions  and  prompt- 
ings that  when  followed,  led  me  aright  every  time  and  were  really 
a  source  of  wonder  and  consolation  to  me.  President  Grant,  who 
was  mouth,  told  me  also  to  go  and  be  a  father  to  the  young  elders 
over  there.  I  tried  to  remember  and  obey  this  admonition  always, 
and  so  when  I  could  not  be  a  father,  then  I  was  a  brother  to  them ; 
I  tried  to  enter  into  their  joys  and  to  sympathize  with  them  in  their 
troubles  and  their  sorrows.  We  had  our  annoyances — ves,  among 
fifty  elders  one  could  not  expect  to  have  perfection  in  all,  particu- 
larly when  most  all  were  very  young — 18,  19  and  20  years  only,  the 
majority  of  them  were,  of  course,  inexperienced,  but  infractions  of 
the  mission  rules  were  confined  to  but  one  or  two  of  them. 

On  our  voyage  over  we  were  so  unfortunate  as  to  have  a  case 
of  smallpox  develop  in  the  steerage,  and  in  consequence,  when  in 
the  Waitemate  harbor,  in  sight  of  our  friends  on  the  wharf,  the 
vessel  was  put  about,  and  we  all  were  taken  to  the  quarantine 
island,  fifty  miles  distant,  and  kept  there  for  two  weeks.  It  was  all 
for  a  good  purpose,  however,  as  on  the  second  Sabbath,  I  was 
asked  if  I  would  speak  in  the  evening  service  for  twenty  minutes. 
I  gladly  consented  and  it  was  so  arranged.  Before  beginning  I  was 
asked  if  I  would  speak  on  two  subjects,  namely,  Polygamy,  and, 
did  we  as  "Mormons"  believe  in  Christ?  The  time  arrived  and  the 
large  upper  room  was  filled  with  the  whole  passenger  assembly  of 
about  300  souls.  I  told  them  frankly  that  we  were  not  there  to 
preach  polygamy.  In  the  year  1890  the  practice  had  been  discontinued 
through  a  manifesto  from  the  then  President  of  the  "Mormon"  Church, 
since  which  time  no  plural  marriages  had  been  solemnized  in  any  place, 
nor  by  any  officer  in  the  Church  over  which  the  Church  had  any  control. 

As  to  the  second  question,  do  we  believe  in  Christ?  Yes;  we 
not  only  believe,  but  we  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  and  that  he 
lives  because  we  have  seen  him.  It  is  no  longer  a  question  of  simple 
belief,  but  an  absolute  knowledge,  as  the  Father  and  the  Son  ap- 
peared to  our  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  talked  with  him,  and  this 
is  the  important  message  which  we  have  to  bear  to  you,  that  these 
holy  personages,  after  whose  images  we  were  created,  came  to  the 


ELDER  ANGUS  T.  WRIGHT 


97 


earth  and  restored  the  everlasting  gospel  in  its  fulness,  and  this  is 
what  we  preach  to  you  today  and  bear  our  testimony  to  you  that 
it  is  true,  is  God-given,  and  we  call  upon  you  to  repent  and  to  em- 
brace the  gospel. 

I  felt  well  and  spoke  to  them  for  thirty  minutes,  and  then  they 
said  I  quit  too  soon.  We  made  many  firm  friends  among  fellow 
passengers  and  removed  much  prejudice.  While  in  that  land  we 
met  many  of  the  high  government  officials,  also  a  number  of  other 
prominent  men,  and  know  that  we  removed  much  prejudice  and 
feel  well  pleased  with  the  results  of  our  two  years'  labor. 

The  principal  newspaper  at  Wauganui  had  printed  several 
scurrilous  misrepresentations  of  our  traveling  elders,  having  been 
influenced  by  stories  which  had  appeared  in  English  papers  to  the 
effect  that  these  Utah  elders  were  sent  out  to  induce  young  women 
to  join  the  Church,  who  were  then  sent  in  large  companies  to  Utah 
for  immoral  purposes,  etc. 

I  said  to  him:  Now,  Mr.  Editor,  I  want  to  say,  first,  that  these 
statements  are  all  false,  that  we  don't  confine  our  work  to  the 
young  ladies,  that  we  are  here  to  preach  Christ  and  him  crucified, 
and  to  warn  the  whole  world  of  his  second  coming  and  to  induce 
the  whole  people  to  be  prepared  to  meet  him;  that  to  pay  $250  per 
head  to  land  young  women  in  Utah,  where  there  is  already  a  great 
plenty  and  of  the  best  quality,  for  immoral  or  any  other  purpose  is 
preposterous,  and  as  a  business  man  you  know  that  the  emigration 
laws  of  New  Zealand  are  so  strict  and  each  person  applying  for  a 
passport  is  so  closely  scrutinized  and  thoroughly  questioned,  that 
this  is  all  a  physical  impossibility ;  and  besides,  the  American  laws 
governing  immigration  and  the  quota  .allowed  would  absolutely 
prevent  any  wholesale  transfer  of  young  or  old  to  Utah.  Now,  Mr. 
Editor,  be  fair  to  these  young  elders  who  have  come  thus  far  at 
their  own  expense  to  bear  their  testimonies  to  this  people ;  pub- 
lish no  more  of  your  damaging  reports  until  you  have  personally 
investigated  them.  i 

He  promised  to  do  this  and  give  us  a  fair  write-up  in  the  next 
issue  of  his  paper. 

Now,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  I  must  not  take  up  more  of  the 
valuable  time  lest  I  encroach  on  the  time  of  Brother  Smith.  I  have 
much  I  would  like  to  say  to  the  parents  of  the  elders  over  there,  but 
time  will  not  permit.  Again  I  rejoice  in  this  privilege,  especially  to 
be  found  in  the  company  of  these  stalwarts,  these  mission  presi- 
dents, some  of  whom  have  served  in  this  capacity  for  a  score  of 
years.  I  testify  that  it  is  a  noble  work,  that  it  is  the  work  of  God. 
I  have  been  blessed  in  this  labor,  and  I  desire  to  continue  to  serve. 
May  God  keep  us  all  true  and  faithful,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  of  the  Church 

There  are  only  a  few  moments  left,  but  I  feel  that  I  should  take 
the  time  to  comment  upon  a  thought  expressed  by  one  of  our 
speakers,  who  said  that  he  was  asked  why  our  young  people  do  not 
have  a  testimony  of  the  gospel.  I  think  that  the  person  asking  this 
question  was  either  misinformed,  or  was  not  acquainted  with  the 
young  people  of  the  Church.  It  is  true  that  few  of  them  feel  to  ex- 
press themselves  as  having  a  testimony  of  the  gospel,  but  when  put 
to  the  test,  they  soon  learn  the  difference  between  that  strong  feel- 
ing they  have, that  the  gospel  is  true  and  the  assurance  that  causes 
them  to  say  they  know. 

In  my  opinion,  one  reason  for  this  apparent  lack  of  knowledge, 
on  the  part  of  the  young  people,  is  that,  as  parents  and  officers  in 
the  Church  organizations,  we  have  not  taken  advantage  of  the 
means  provided  and  have  not  given  the  encouragement  needed  to 
bring  out  this  important  fact.  Perhaps  we  are  not  setting  the 
proper  example,  and  many  of  us  fail  to  show  the  proper  interest  in 
this  great  gift,  for  we  are  told  that  a  testimony  is  the  gift  of  God 
and  does  not  come  unsought. 

Some  of  our  young  men  go  into  the  mission  field  and  express 
themselves  as  not  knowing  for  a  surety  that  the  gospel  is  true,  but 
they  feel  that  it  is,  and  hope  soon  to  gain  a  testimony.  If  they  had 
been  put  to  work  and  given  more  opportunities  to  bear  testimony 
at  home,  this  gift  of  God  would  have  come  to  them,  just  as  it  does 
later  in  the  mission  field.  It  should  be  the  aim  of  every  parent  and 
every  officer  in  the  Church  to  assist  the  young  people  to  gain  a 
testimony,  for  those  who  are  not  of  our  faith  do  not  understand  why 
we  send  young  men  and  young  women  into  the  world  to  preach  the 
gospel  who  seemingly  are  not  fully  converted. 

I  read  a  letter  the  other  day  from  a  young  man  who  a  few 
months  ago  was  attending  the  missionary  class  here.  He  is  now 
laboring  in  one  of  the  large  cities  in  Europe.  In  his  letter  he  calls 
attention  to  many  little  incidents  that  tend  to  impress  him  with  the 
great  importance  of  the  service  in  which  he  is  engaged,  and  of  the 
guiding  influence  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 

I  will  repeat  one  incident.  One  morning  he  awakened  early 
and  could  not  go  to  sleep  again.  His  companion  complained  of  his 
restlessness,  which  the  elder  could  not  explain.  He  finally  arose 
from  his  bed  to  study,  but  could  not  apply  himself  to  his  study  and 
so  decided  to  take  a  walk.  As  he  started  out,  he  was  impressed  to 
go  to  another  part  of  the  city,  where  two  other  elders  were  living. 
On  the  way  there  he  met  a  man  and  his  wife  from  Utah  whom  he 
knew.  They  did  not  have  the  address  of  any  of  the  elders  or  Saints 
in  that  city,  and  in  their  prayers  had  asked  the  Lord  to  direct  them. 
This  boy,  being  the  only  elder  in  that  city  who  was  acquainted  with 
them,  was  led  to  them  by  this  unseen  Power,  and  his  vision  was 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH  99 

opened  to  the  great  power  of  prayer  and  the  willingness  of  the  Lord 
to  answer  the  prayers  of  his  children. 

Similar  incidents  of  the  manifestations  and  power  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  could  be  related  by  nearly  every  member  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Even  so,  are  we  fully  impressed 
with  the  importance  of  these  manifestations?  Do  they  enter  into 
our  lives  and  cause  us  to  turn  to  our  heavenly  Father  in  humility, 
with  a  desire  to  serve  him  with  all  our  might,  mind,  and  strength? 

Two  or  three  days  ago  I  met  a  young  man  on  the  street  whom 
I  have  not  seen  for  a  great  many  years.  As  I  stopped  to  shake 
hands  with  him,  he  said  that  he  wanted  to  have  a  visit  with  me  and 
a  long  talk.   We  stepped  to  the  curb  and  he  told  this  story : 

Having  left  school  in  his  youth  and  obtained  employment 
which  took  him  away  from  home,  he  had  very  little  opportunity  to 
labor  in  the  Church.  His  companions  and  associates  having  but 
little  time  for  religion,  he  drifted  from  active  participation  in 
Church  affairs.  After  two  or  three  children  had  been  born  to  him, 
his  thoughts  wandered  to  his  early  home  teachings,  and  to  the  pros- 
pects of  the  future  for  his  family.  In  his  youth  he  had  been  taught 
to  pray,  and  had  never  turned  from  this  practice. 

Finally,  the  elders  were  called  in  to  administer  to  one  of  his 
children  who  had  been  given  up  by  the  attending  physicians.  Al- 
most instantly  the  child  was  relieved  and  continued  to  improve 
until  it  was  soon  in  perfect  health. 

This  little  incident  brought  forcibly  to  his  mind  the  teachings 
of  his  childhood,  and  he  was  so  impressed  that  his  whole  soul  is 
now  centered  upon  so  living  that  he  may  go  with  his  family  to  the 
temple,  there  to  have  the  promise  of  the  new  and  everlasting  cove- 
nant sealed  upon  them.  This  young  man's  mother  has  been  a  con- 
stant worker  in  the  temple  for  many  years,  and  her  prayers  have 
gone  out  to  the  Lord,  asking  that  the  heart  of  her  son  be  touched, 
and  in  the  Lord's  own  way  and  in  due  time  these  prayers  have  been 
answered. 

Thus,  we  see  the  importance  of  loving  one  another,  as  we  are 
commanded  to  do  and  we  should  constantly  be  found  serving  the 
Lord  by  serving  our  fellow  men  and  encouraging  them  in  their 
efforts  to  earn  as  their  reward  salvation  in  the  celestial  kingdom. 

May  this  be  our  lot,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "Daughter  of  Zion." 

The  closing  praver  was  offered  by  Elder  John  Keddington. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  SESSION 

At  10  o'clock,  Monday  morning,  October  S,  1925,  the  meeting 
in  the  Tabernacle  was  opened  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant  who  an- 
nounced that  the  choir  and  congregation  would  sing,  "Come,  come,  ye 
Saints." 

After  the  song,  Elder  Bryant  S.  Hinckley,  President  of  the  Liberty 
stake  of  Zion,  offered  the  opening  prayer. 

A  solo,  "The  Seer,  the  Seer,  Joseph  the  Seer,"  was  sung  by 
William  Russell. 

ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 

DIVINE  REVELATION 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  stands  for  the 
doctrine  of  divine  revelation,  immediate,  continuous  and  direct. 
"We  believe  all  that  God  has  revealed,  all  that  He  does  now  reveal, 
and  we  believe  that  He  will  yet  reveal  many  great  and  important 
things  pertaining  to  the  Kingdom  of  God."  Such  is  the  language 
of  one  of  our  Articles  of  Faith,  written  for  the  Church  by  its 
founder,  Joseph  Smith,  prophet,  revelator  and  seer. 

My  reason  for  referring  to  the  subject  at  this  time  is  a  remark 
attributed  to  Colonel  William  Jennings  Bryan,  of  honored  memory, 
during  the  famous  Evolution  trial  at  Dayton,  Tennessee.  He  is  re- 
ported to  have  said  that  to  destroy  the  Bible  would  be  to  destroy 
revealed  religion. 

MAN  IN  THE  IMAGE  OF  GOD 

Before  going  any  further  into  that,  I  wish  to  say  that  I  was  in 
full  sympathy  with  the  Great  Commoner  in  his  general  attitude  on 
that  historic  occasion.  I  believe  that  when  God  made  man  in  His 
own  image,  He  made  a  man,  and  not  a  monkey,  nor  any  other 
animal  out  of  which  man  has  evolved.  I  do  not  believe  that  the 
first  of  our  race  was  a  savage,  or  a  cave  man,  who  courted  his  wife 
with  a  club  and  carried  her  off  by  force.  Such  creatures  there 
may  .have  been,  and  there  may  be  now.  I  do  not  dispute  the  find- 
ings and  the  facts  of  science — real  science — which  is  knowledge,  not 
guess-work.  But  I  do  deny  that  the  great  father  of  the  human 
family  was  a  creature  of  that  kind. 

adam's  antecedents 

Adam  was  no  ordinary  character.  How  could  he  be,  with  such 
a  mission  and  such  antecedents  as  were  his?  In  the  heavens,  before 
this  earth  was  formed,  he  was  Michael  the  Archangel,  leader  of  the 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


101 


loyal  spirit  hosts  that  vanquished  Lucifer  and  his  rebellious  legions, 
winning  the  right  to  take  bodies  upon  this  planet,  to  become  "souls" 
capable  of  endless  increase  and  advancement.  What  Latter-day 
Saint  can  doubt  that  Adam  was  among  "the  noble  and  great,"  re- 
ferred to  in  the  Book  of  Abraham  as  "rulers,"  chosen  before  they 
were  born  into  this  world  to  play  leading  parts  in  the  divine  drama 
having  as  its  purpose  the  uplift  and  promotion  of  "the  lesser  in- 
telligences" who  became  God's  sons  and  daughters — the  end  de- 
signed by  the  all-wise,  all-benevolent  Creator  from  the  beginning? 

THE  EVERLASTING  GOSPEL 

Bear  in  mind  that  the  Gospel  of  Christ  is  not  a  mere  life  boat  or 
fire  escape — a  way  out  of  a  perilous  situation.  It  is  all  this  and  more. 
It  is  the  path  to  endless  glory  and  exaltation,  the  plan  of  eternal 
progression,  designed  by  the  wisdom  of  the  Gods  before  the  founda- 
tion of  the  world.  Adam's  fall  was  a  part  of  the  great  plan.  It 
brought  death,  spiritual  and  temporal  death — for  Divine  Justice  de- 
mands a  penalty  for  every  transgression,- — but  it  also  produced  the 
human  race,  so  far  as  mortal  bodies  are  concerned,  a  race  re- 
deemed by  the  great  Atoning  Sacrifice,  which  paid  Adam's  debt, 
mended  the  broken  law,  repoised  the  unbalanced  scale,  and  restored 
the  equilibrium  of  right.  Thenceforth  man,  by  pursuing  the  path 
marked  out  for  him,  might  go  on  to  perfection.  It  was  Adam's 
mission  to  bring  us  into  this  world.  It  is  Christ's  mission  to  lift 
us  up  out  of  this  world,  when  the  object  of  our  sojourn  here  is  ac- 
complished. 

THE  DISPENSATIONS 

Adam  was  the  first  to  receive  and  obey  the  Gospel,  revealed  to 
him  out  of  Eternity  at  the  very  beginning  of  Time.  Since  his  day 
it  has  been  upon  the  earth  repeatedly,  in  a  series  of  dispensations, 
of  .which  this  is  the  greatest  and  the  last.  Adarn,presides  over  all 
the  gospel  dispensations,  including  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fullness 
of  Times — he  presides  over  them  all,  just  as  the  President  of  the 
Church  presides  over  all  the  Stakes  of  Zion  and  all  the  outside 
Missions,  though  each  has  its  own  immediate  presiding  authority. 
Joseph  Smith  is  the  immediate  head  of  this  dispensation,  and  Adam 
is  the  -general  head  of  all.  Standing  next  to  Christ  in  the  Priest- 
hood, whenever  that  divine  power  is  revealed  from  heaven  to  earth, 
"it  is  by  Adam's  authority."   So  says  Joseph  Smith. 

The  world  has  not  seen  the  last  of  Father  Adam.  He  is  coming 
again,  as  the  Ancient  of  Days,  to  fulfill  the  prophecy  of  Daniel.  He 
will'  come  to  the  valley  of  Adam-ondi-Ahman,  where  of  old  he 
blessed  his  posterity,  foretelling  what  should  befall  them  to  the 
latest  generation.  He  will  call  a  council  and  assemble  his  righteous 
descendants,  to  prepare  them  for  the  glorious  advent  of  the  King 
of  Kings. 

This  is  a  part  of  the  divine  program,  as  made  known  bv  modem 
reyelation, 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


NEITHER  APE  NOR  CAVE  MAN 

Dismiss  from  your  minds,  my  hearers — if  any  of  you  entertain 
the  notion — that  Adam,  the  Ancient  of  Days,  the  great  Prince  and 
Patriarch  of  our  race,  was  ever  a  jungle-inhabiting  ape,  or  even  an 
unenlightened  cave  man.  He  knew  more  about  religion  than  all  the 
theologians  of  the  world  combined.  He  knew  more  about  science — 
the  sources  of  science — than  any  evolutionist  has  ever  dreamt 
of  knowing.  How  can  anyone  whose  soul  has  been  fed  with  the 
revelations  of  God,  whose  mind  has  been  illumined  by  the  spirit  of 
the  Gospel,  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  conceive  of  Adam,  the  first 
of  the  human  race,  as  anything  less  than  the  Bible  represents  him 
to  be — a  man  formed  in  the  image  of  his  Maker? — which  is  tanta- 
mount to  saying  that  the  Maker  is  in  the  form  of  man. 

BRYAN  ANSWERED 

And  now  as  to  that  remark  of  Colonel  Bryan's.  Is  it  a  fact 
that  the  destruction  of  the  Bible  would  mean  the  destruction  of  re- 
vealed religion?  According  to  my  reckoning  there'  are  at  least 
three  books,  in  addition  to  the  Bible,  that  would  have  to  be  de- 
stroyed before  revealed  religion  could  perish.  I  refer  to  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  the  PearL-of  Great 
Price,  which  three,  with  the  Bible,  are  the  accepted  doctrinal  stand- 
ards of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  All  these 
sacred  volumes  have  to  do  with  revealed  religion,  and  they  would 
have  to  be  destroyed  before  it  could  see  destruction.  Even  then  it 
would  survive  if  a  man  like  Joseph  Smith  remained,  to  receive  from 
God  the  revelations  of  His  will. 

NOT  DEPENDENT  UPON  BOOKS 

Revelation  does  not  depend  upon  books.  It  is  an  eternal  prin- 
ciple, a  perennial,  ever-flowing  fountain.  Books  may  come  and 
books  may  go,  but  revelation  goes  on  forever. 

The  Bible  is  one  of  the  best  books  in  creation.  We  do  not 
undervalue  it.  To  the  Latter-day  Saints  it  is  the  word  of  the  Lord, 
save  for  the  errors  that  have  crept  into  it  through  faulty  translation. 
But  it  is  not  the  source  of  eternal  truth,  nor  the  foundation  of  all 
righteousness.  No  book  can  claim  that  distinction.  Religion  could 
exist  without  the  Bible,  and  it  did  exist,  as  revealed  from  Heaven, 
before  that  ancient  volume  was  compiled. 

There  were  prophets  before  Moses,  he  who  wrote  the  Penta- 
teuch or  first  five  books  of  the  Bible ;  and  their  inspired  utterances 
(some  of  which  have  been  brought  to  light  in  modern  days)  are 
just  as  sacred  as  the  writings  of  Israel's  great  law-giver.  But  they 
are  no  substitute  for  revelation ;  they  do  not  constitute  the  founda- 
tion of  religion.  Religion  rests  upon  the  Rock  of  Revelation,  and 
that  rock  is  Jesus  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world. 

Some  critics  think  they  have  discovered  that  Moses  did  not 
write  the  books  attributed  to  him.    But  there  was  no  such  thought 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


103 


in  the  mind  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  when  he  revised,  by  the 
Spirit  of  Revelation,  the  writings  of  Moses,  as  they  now  appear  in 
the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  He  plainly  identifies  Moses  with  the 
authorship  of  the  Book  of  Genesis.  Surely  the  testimony  of  a 
prophet  of  God  is  quite  as  worthy  of  consideration  as  the  theories 
of  college  students  and  the  carpings  of  "higher  criticism." 

The  Book  of  Mormon  is  also  the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  that  it 
was  translated  correctly,  we  have  the  Lord's  declaration  to  the 
Three  Witnesses.  But  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  not  the  basis  of 
our  religious  faith.    It  rests  upon  a  much  solider  foundation. 

The  Bible  is  not  the  Gospel ;  neither  is  the  Book  of  Mormon ; 
though  both  may  be  said  to  contain  it.  Such  books  are  records  of 
the  Gospel's  experience  among  men,  and  are  a  means  of  preserving 
a  knowledge  of  the  truth  and  handing  it  down  to  posterity.  Books 
are  a  great  convenience,  an  almost  priceless  boon,  but  they  are  not 
absolutely  indispensable.    Religion  could  live  without  them. 

THE  SCIENCE  OF  SCIENCES 

But  it  could  not  live  without  God.  He  is  the  Source  of  all  true 
religion  and  all  true  science,  revealed  or  unrevealed.  What  is 
science  but  a  part  of  religion,  a  branch  or  form  of  revelation?  And 
what  is  religion  but  the  science  of  all  sciences — the  science  of  eter- 
nal life?  Music,  poetry,  and  other  arts — they  also  are  forms  of 
revelation,  means  used  by  the  Giver  of  every  good  gift  to  make 
known  the  beautiful  and  the  sublime — things  that  we  "seek  after," 
and  ought  to  seek,  for  they  are  portions  of  the  Divine  Message,  ac- 
cessories to  the  Everlasting  Gospel. 

THE  HOUSE  OF  ISRAEL 

The  Bible  is  a  history  of  God's  dealings  with  an  ancient  people 
— the  House  of  Israel — the  descendants  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and 
Jacob,  in  whom  Jehovah  purposed  to  bless  all  nations,  and  did  so 
when  He  came  through  the  lineage  of  those  Hebrew  patriarchs  as 
the  Redeemer  of  mankind.  He  also  blessed  the  world  when  he  dis- 
persed his  chosen  people  among  the  nations,  thus  sprinkling  them 
with  the  blood  of  the  faithful,  the  blood  that  believes,  and  with 
spirits  answering  to  that  blood.  The  Bible  is  likewise  a  prophecy 
of  God's  intentions  toward  the  human  family,  and  a  repository  of 
laws  and  ordinances  that  His  ancient  people  were  commanded  to 
observe  and  obey. 

LAWS  ACTIVE  AND  OBSOLETE 

Some  of  those  laws  are  still  in  force,  notwithstanding  the  lapse 
of  ages.  Others  are  obsolete,  out  of  date.  This  cannot  be  said  of 
the  Ten  Commandments,  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  or  the  princi- 
ples of  the  Everlasting  Gospel ;  but  it  can  be  said  of  many  parts  of 
the  Holy  Scriptures.  They  make  good  reading,  but  their  day  is 
past ;  they  are  not  in  force  upon  the  present  generation. 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  same  is  true  of  parts  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  parts  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  They  have  no  reference  to  us  what- 
ever; and  I'll  prove  it  in  a  twinkling. 

MODERN  ILLUSTRATIONS 

In  the  month  of  January,  1847,  the  main  body  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  were  encamped  upon  the  Missouri  River,  prior  to  crossing 
the  great  plains  to  the  Rocky  Mountains.  President  Brigham 
Young,  who  was  then  the  head  of  the  Church,  voiced  to  its  members 
"the  word  and  will  of  the  Lord,"  now  constituting  Section  136  of 
the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  It  directed  all  the  people  of 
the  Church  and  those  who  journeyed  with  them  to  be  organized  into 
companies  of  hundreds,  fifties  and  ten's  (meaning  wagons)  prepara- 
tory to  the  passage  of  the  plains.  This  meant  that  they  were  to 
yoke  up  their  ox  teams,  hitch  them  to.  their  covered  wagons,  and 
organize  as  directed,  "with  a  covenant  and  promise  to  keep  all  the 
commandments  and  statutes  of  the  Lord  our  God." 

Now,  this  part  of  the  revelation  is  still  alive  and  in  force.  We 
are  all  required  to  keep  the  Lord's  commandments,  such  as  apply 
to  our  case  and  condition.  But  we  are  not  required  to  hitch  up  ox 
teams,  organize  into  companies  of  hundreds,  fifties  and  tens,  and 
cross  the  plains  to  the  Rocky  Mountains.  Yet  that  requirement, 
obsolete  as  to  us,  was  the  word  and  will  of  the  Lord  to  our  fathers 
and  mothers,  our  grandfathers  and  grandmothers,  encamped  upon 
the  Missouri  River  in  January,  1847. 

Another  illustration :  Many  years  ago  there  came  to  Salt  Lake 
City  a  learned  prelate  of  the  Greek  Catholic  Church.  He  visited 
one  of  our  Sacrament  meetings,  and  was  greatly  shocked  to  see  the 
Saints  sipping  water  instead  of  wine  at  the  table  of  the  Lord.  He 
afterwards  said  to  me  :  "Why  do  you  do  this  ?  Jesus  Christ  author- 
ized the  use  of  wine  when  he  instituted  the  Sacrament  at  Jeru- 
salem." "Yes,"  I  assented,  "and  He  also  authorized  wine  when  He 
instituted  the  same  ordinance  among  the  Nephites  here  in  America, 
as  told  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  But  what  has  that  fo  do  with  us? 
We  are  living  in  another  dispensation.  We  are  not  governed  by 
what  Jesus  told  the  Jews  to  do,  nor  by  what  he  told  the  Nephites 
to  do.  We  are  governed  by  what  He  tells  the  Latter-day  Saints  to 
do ;  and  the  latest  word  that  comes  from  Him  through  his  living 
oracle  at  the  head  of  the  Church,  must  always  take  precedence  over 
any  former  commandment  given  by  Him  to  us  or  to  any  other  peo- 
ple. We  also  will  use  wine  in  the  Sacrament  whenever  the  Lord 
requires  it ;  but  since  He  has  said  that  it  matters  not  what  we  eat 
or  drink  at  such  times,  so  long  as  we  do  it  with  an  eye  single  to  His 
glory,  we  use  water  instead." 

THE  CHURCH  OF  THE  LIVING  GOD 

No  book  is  good  enough  to  preside  over  the  Church  of  God  and 
direct  its  activities.    Books  are  not  a  sufficient  guide  for  a  pro- 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


105 


gressive  people  on  their  way  to  the  celestial  kingdom.  They  are 
good  as  far  as  they  go,  but  they  do  not  go  far  enough.  We  have 
something  better — a  living,  heaven-inspired  Priesthood,  with  the 
restored  Gospel,  the  gifts  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  the  principle  of 
immediate  and  continuous  revelation.  Other  churches  are  built  upon 
books,  traditions,  decrees  of  councils  and  synods,  private  inter- 
pretations, man-made  doctrines,  maybe-so's  and  peradventures.  But 
the  Church  of  the  Living  God  stands  where  He  has  placed  it,  upon 
the  Rock  of  Divine  Revelation,  and  the  gates  of  hell  cannot  prevail 
against  it. 

A  BRAVE  FIGHT 

No,  Friend  Bryan.  You  meant  well,  and  you  made  a  brave 
fight  for  the  truth  as  you  saw  it,  though  somewhat  hampered  by 
tradition,  and  probably  by  environment.  And  the  Lord  will  bless 
you  for  it  and  remember  you  when  He  makes  up  his  jewels.  But 
you  fell  short,  through  lack  of  further  light  and  understanding. 

No,  the  destruction  of  the  Bible  would  not  destroy  all  that  God 
has  revealed.  It  would  not  destroy  what  the  other  good  books  con- 
tain, nor  seal  up  the  heavens  against  future  revelation.  It  would 
remove  only  a  history  or  a  hand-book  of  religion,  one  of  the  means 
used  by  the  Almighty  to  preserve  among  men  the  truth  as  Heaven 
nas  revealed  it. 

TRUTH  THE  ETERNAL 

What  is  Truth?  Joseph  Smith  says:  "It  is  the  knowledge  of 
things  as  they  are,  as  thev  have  been,  and  as  they  will  be."  John 
Jaques,  inspired  by  the  Muse  of  Poesy,  which  is  only  another  name 
for  the  God  of  Truth,  built  upon  the  same  great  thought  when  he 
gave  us  this  glorious  hymn  : 

O  say  what  is  truth?    'Tis  the  fairest  gem 

That  the  richest  of  worlds  can  produce ; 
And  priceless  the  value  of  truth  will  be  when 
The  proud  monarch's  costliest  diadem 

Is  counted  but  dross  and  refuse. 

Yes,  say,  what  is  truth?    'Tis  the  brightest  prize 

To  which  mortals  or  Gods  can  aspire ; 
Go  search  in  the  depths  where  it  glittering  lies, 
Or  ascend  in  pursuit  to  the  loftiest  skies ; 

'Tis  an  aim  for  the  noblest  desire. 

The  sceptre  may  fall  from  the  despot's  grasp 
When  with  winds  of  stern  justice  he  copes, 
But  the  pillar  of  truth  will  endure  to  the  last, 
And  its  firm-rooted  bulwarks  outstand  the  rude  blast 
And  the  wreck  of  the  fell  tyrant's  hopes. 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Then  say  what  is  truth?   'Tis  the  last  and  the  first, 

For  the  limits  of  time  it  steps  o'er: 
Though  the  heavens  depart  and  the  earth's  fountains  burst, 
Truth,  the  sum  of  existence,  will  weather  the  worst, 

Eternal,  unchanged,  evermore. 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

AUTHORIZATION  OF  CHRIST  TO  WITNESSES  OF  HIM 
"But  ye  shall  receive  power  after  that  the  Holy  Ghost  is  come  upon 
you;  and  ye  shall  be  witnesses  unto  me  both  in  Jerusalem,  and  in  all  Judea, 
and  in  Samaria,  and  unto  the  uttermost  part  of  the  earth." 

These  men  who  were  to  be  witnesses  were  eye  witnesses  of 
the  resurrectionxif  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  is  the  principal 
fact  to  which  they  were  to  bear  witness  in  all  parts  of  Judea,  Sa- 
maria and  unto  the  uttermost  parts  of  the  earth. 

THE  REALITY  OF  CHRIST  AS  DEITY 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  world  today  belief  in 
Jesus  Christ  is  too  perfunctory,  too  conventional.  The  reality  of 
Christ  as  Deity  does  not  seem  to  possess  the  souls  of  men.  The 
resurrected  Lord  is  a  something  apart  'from  most  men's  lives.  I 
think  I  cannot  better  illustrate  this  thought  than  to  read  a  few 
lines  written  by  one  of  the  soldiersin  Flanders,  when  he  was  in  the 
midst  of  shot  and  shell  and  facing  death.  Writing  of  the  Christ 
he  says : 

"We  had  forgotten  you,  or  very  nearly,. 
You  didn't  seem  to  touch  us  very  nearly. 
Of  course  we  thought  about  you  now  and  then — 
Especially  in  any  time  of  trouble —  • 
We  knew  that  you.  were  good  in  time  of  trouble — 
But  we  are  very  ordinary  men. 

"Now,  we  remember,  over  here  in  Flanders — 
(It  is  not  strange  to  think  of  you  in  Flanders) — ■ 
This  hideous  warfare  seems  to  make  things  clear. 
We  never  thought  about  you  much  in  England — 
But  now  that  we  are  far  away  from  England— 
We  have  no  doubts,  we  know  that  you  are  here. 

"We  think  about  you  kneeling  in  the  Garden — 

Ah,  God,  the  agony  of  that  dread  Garden — 

We  know  you  prayed  for  us  upon  the  cross. 

If  anything  could  make  us  glad  to  bear  it 

'Twould  be  the  knowledge  that  you  willed  to  bear  it — 

Pain,  de^th,  the  uttermost  of  human  loss!" 

Too  many  in  the  psuedo  Christian  world  today  can  say  as 
truthfully  as  the  soldier : 

"We  had  forgotten  you,  or  very  nearly — • 
You  do  not  seem  to  touch  us  very  nearly." 

The  reality  of  God  the  Father,  the  reality  of  Jesus  Christ,  the 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


107 


risen  Lord,  is  a  truth  which  should  possess  every  human  soul.  God 
is  the  center  of  the  human  mind  as  surely  as  the  sun  is  the  center  of 
this  universe,  and  once  we  feel  his  Fatherhood,  once  we  feel  his 
nearness,  sense  the  divinity  of  the  deity  of  the  Savior,  the  truths  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  follow  as  naturally  as  the  day  the  night, 
and  as  night  the  day. 

HOW  MAY  WE  KNOW  GOD  AND  FEEL  HIS  NEARNESS? 

How  may  we  know  God,  how  may  we  feel  that  nearness  to 
him  ?  That  is  the  question  that  young  men  are  asking  today.  Boys 
and  girls  are  nof.  naturally  irreligious ;  they  are  not  profaners  be- 
cause they  love  to  be.  I  know  they  seem  indifferent,  but  in  their 
very  hearts,  they  are  asking  these  eternal  questions,  and  they  long 
for  the  answer. 

ONE  WAY,  TO  THINK,  TO  REASON 

There  are  three  ways,  among  others,  to  which  we  should  like 
to  ask  the  young  men  of  Israel,  particularly,  to  seek  their  God  and 
to  feel  his  nearness.  One  is  to  think,  to  reason.  Reason  though  only 
an  insecure  guide  will  lead  us  to  him.  However,  "Dim  as  the 
borrowed  rays  of  moon  and  stars  to  lonely,  weary,  wandering 
traveler — is  reason  to  the  soul,"  but  it  is  a  guide,  and  too  few  men 
use  it  positively  with  a  desire  to  know  the  truth. 

ANOTHER,  TO  ACCEPT  THE  WITNESS  OF  MEN  OF  INTEGRITY 

Another  pathway  is  to  accept  the  witness  of  men  who  have 
known  him,  who  have  seen  him.  I  think  we  pay  too  little  attention 
to  the  value  of  these  witnesses.  I  have  read  in  your  presence  this 
morning  the  authorization  of  Christ  to  his  apostles  who  were  to 
be  witnesses  of  him.  The  very  first  act  of  the  Twelve  after  Christ's 
ascension  was  to  choose  a  man  from  among  those  who  had  been 
eye  witnesses  of  Christ's  resurrection.  That  was  what  they  wanted 
the  apostle  to  be  who  was  to  take  Judas'  place.  (Read  in  the  first 
chapter  of  Acts) — a  witness  of  his  resurrection.  Mind  you,  many 
men  in  the  world  today  accept 'Christ  as  a  great  teacher,  but  that 
is  not  the  fact  which  is  going  to  transform  their  souls.  He  was 
a  great  teacher,  the  greatest  teacher  of  men,  but  he  was  also  God. 
Through  him  we  know  God;  through  Christ,  God  reveals  himself 
to  men.  It  is  the  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world  of  whom  I 
speak  when  I  plead  for  young  men  to  come  close  to  him  and  to  think 
of  him  as  a  reality  after  his  death,  after  his  burial.  Of  the  resur- 
rected Christ  were  the  early  apostles  to  be  witnesses  in  all  Judea, 
and  in  Samaria  and  unto  the  uttermost  parts  of  the  earth. 

Now  let  me  here  say  that  we  ought  not  to  question  the  in- 
tegrity of  these  men.  I  believe  in  them,  I  cannot  believe  that  they 
wanted  to  deceive,  I  cannot  believe  that  they  were  deceived,  I  can- 
not. In  measurement  of  time  we  are  a  long  way  from  them,  I 
know,  but  if  we  study  carefully  their  lives  and  their  histories  we 


i08 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


shall  find  that  their  testimonies  are  reliable  and  that  the  integrity 
of  their  lives  is  unquestioned.  To  emphasize  the  value  of  their 
testimony,  let  me  call  your  attention  to  what  Mr.  Roger  W.  Babson, 
author  of  Fundamentals  of  Prosperity  has  written  about  integrity, 
how  our  entire  social  structure  is  built  upon  it: 

"The  first  fundamental  of  prosperity  is  integrity.  Without  it  there  is  no 
civilization,  there  is  no  peace,  there  is  no  security,  there  is  no  safety.  Mind 
you  also  this  applies  just  as  much  to  the  man  who  is  working  for  wages 
as  to  the  capitalist  and  every  owner  of  property.  Integrity  however  is 
very  much  broader  than  the  above  illustration  would  indicate." 

Before  this  quotation,  he  shows  that  there  is  no  value  at  all 
in  the  bank  book,  no  value  in  the  deeds  and  mortgages  that  we 
hold. 

"The  value  of  them  lies  in  the  integrity  of  the  lawyers  and  stenogra- 
phers who  draw  up  the  papers,  in  the  integrity  of  the  officer  and  clerks 
who  sign  the  documents,  in  the  integrity  of  the  courts  and  judges  who 
would  enable  us  to  enforce  our  claims;  in  the  integrity  of  the  people,  the 
citizenship  who  will  stand  behind  that  enforcement,  and  make  our  claims 
legal  and  valid." 

"Integrity,"  he  continues,  "applies  to  many  more  things  than  money. 
Integrity  requires  the  seeking  after  as  well  as  the  disposing  of  truth.  It 
was  their  desire  for  truth  which  founded  our  education  institutions,  our 
sciences  and  our  arts.  All  the  great  professions,  from  medicine  to  engineer- 
ing, rest  upon  this  spirit  of  integrity,  and  only  as  they  so  rest  can  they 
prosper  or  even  survive." 

TESTIMONY  OF  MEN  WHO  SAW  THE  RESURRECTED  CHRIST 

These  men  who  were  to  be  witnesses  declared  before  their 
enemies,  the  very  men  who  had  put  Jesus  Christ  to  death  on  the 
cross,  that  they  had  seen  the  risen  Lord.  I  will  first  read  Peter's 
testimony  given  immediately  after  the  resurrection : 

"Ye  men  of  Israel,  hear  these  words;  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  a  man  ap- 
proved of  God  among  you  by  miracles  and  wonders  and  signs,  which  God 
did  by  him  in  the  midst  of  you,  as  ye  yourselves  also  know; 

"Him,  being  delivered  by  the  determinate  counsel  and  foreknowledge  of 
God,  ye  have  taken,  and  by  wicked  hands  have  crucified  and  slain: 

"Whom  God  has  raised  up,  having  loosed  the  pains  of  death;  because 
it  was  not  possible  that  he  should  be  holden  of  it    .    .  . 

"This  Jesus  hath  God  raised  up,  whereof  we  all  are  witnesses." 

Ah,  but  the  doubting  critic  says,  and  he  says  conscientiously, 
if  we  had  absolute  proof  that  this  was  Peter's  testimony,  it  would 
have  force.  But  remember,  he  says,  that  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles 
were  not  written  until  eighty  years  after  Christ,  or  nearly  half  a 
century  after  the  event  of  which  Peter  testified  took  place.  Right. 
But  let  us  remember  also  that  in  the  severe  test  to  which  modern 
science  has  put  all  these  ancient  scriptures  during  the  last  half 
century,  especially  every  ancient  document  that  purports  to  con- 
tain any  witness  of  the  resurrected  Christ,  many  documents  have 
been  thrown  aside  as  spurious,  the  "Acts  of  John,"  the  "Acts  of 
Andrew,"  the  "Acts  of  Peter,"  and  others,  have  been  thrown  aside, 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


109 


but  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles  has  emerged  from  that  criticism  with 
its  authenticity  established.  Then  we  know  that  the  author — we 
accept  Luke  as  the  author,  and  that,  too,  is  fairly  well  established- 
Luke  received  the  witness  personally  of  the  men  who  saw  Jesus 
Christ  after  he  was  resurrected.  We  know  that  Luke  was  in  Rome 
with  Mark,  and  we  know  that  Mark  was  in  Jerusalem  at  the  time 
that  these  great  events  took  place.  It  is  not  thoroughly  established 
but  it  is  quite  certain  however  that  Mark  was  the  young  man  who 
ran  into  the  Garden  the  night  of  the  betrayal.  We  know  that  Luke 
was  in  the  house  of  Philip,  the  evangelist,  and  stayed  many  days 
at  Caesarea.  We  know  that  at  that  time  he  went  to  Jerusalem,  he 
conferred  with  James  who  presided  over  the  Church  at  Jerusalem- 
James  the  brother  of  the  Lord,  who  had  accepted  the  gospel  after 
the  resurrection.  The  testimony  of  James,  Luke  heard,  and  in 
all  probability  the  testimony  of  Peter,  because  Peter  was  there  as 
one  of  the  leaders  when  Luke  went  up  to  Jerusalem  on  that  oc- 
casion, and  he  would  hear  first  hand  Peter's  testimony.  Men  were 
living,  five  hundred  of  them  at  that  time,  who  had  seen  the  resur- 
rected Lord.  What  about  the  integrity  of  men,  integrity  of  wit- 
nesses? What  right  had  Luke  to  suspect  them?  He  did  not,  he 
accepted  their  testimony  as  valid,  and  their  testimony  of  the  resur- 
rected Lord  convinced  him  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  of  Jesus 
Christ  to  which  he  subscribed  and  of  which  he  became  a  member. 

He  heard  from  Paul,  day  after  day  and  night  after  night,  the 
testimony  that  he  gave,  and  if  there  is  any  question  about  the  di- 
rect testimony  of  Peter  we  have  the  direct  testimony  of  Paul  in  the 
oldest  recorded  testimony  extant,  older  than  the  Acts — a  testimony 
written  in  the  first  twenty-five  years  of  the  Christian  church.  Paul 
testifies  that  he  saw  the  risen  Lord.  With  that  testimony  you  are 
all  acquainted.  He  further  testifies  that  the  risen  Lord  was  seen 
of  Cephas  (Peter),  "then  of  the  Twelve;  after  that  he  was  seen 
of  above  five  hundred  brethren  at  once;  of  whom  the  greater  part 
remain  unto  this  present,  but  some  are  fallen  asleep.  After  that 
he  was  seen  of  James;  then  of  all  the  Apostles.  And  last  of  all 
he  was  seen  of  me  also,  as  one  born  out  of  due  time." 

I  cannot  doubt  that  testimony.  Why  can  the  world?  This 
testimony  is  of  the  resurrected  Lord,  not  Jesus  the  teacher,  not  the 
Jesus  of  Nazareth,  who  went  about  as  any  other  Jew,  but  Jesus  the 
Lord,  the  Redeemer  of  mankind. 

THE  MODERN  TESTIMONY  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH 

Let  me  call  your  attention  to  another  witness  nearer  to  us  than 
the  ancient  apostles — the  testimony  of  Joseph  Smith  the  prophet 
This  comes  closer  to  us.  These  other  men  are  a  long  way  from  us 
in  measurement  of  time.  Joseph  Smith  testified  that  the  risen  Lord 
appeared  to  him,  that  he  was  introduced  to  the  boy  prophet  by  the 
Lord  himself,  the  Father,  who  said  ,"This  is  my  beloved  Son ;  hear 
him."   If  that  testimony  stood  alone  it  would  be,  as  Christ  said  his 


no 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


testimony  would  be,  of  no  avail  when  he  spoke  of  himself.  If  Jesus 
were  the  only  witness  it  would  not  be  of  force,  but  he  had  also 
God's  testimony  and  the  Scriptures.  And  so,  Joseph  Smith  has 
other  witnesses  whose  integrity  cannot  be  questioned.  Of  Joseph's 
wonderful  testimony  I  have  not  time  to  speak,  I  am  merely  suggest- 
ing a  line  of  thought  that  young  men  may  follow  and  come  nearer 
to  Christ  if  they  will  be  conscientious  and  true,  and  not  "play 
pranks  with  their  souls,"  but  be  honest  as  Joseph  Smith  was  honest, 
and  as  these  other  men  were  honest  to  death  in  their  testimonies. 

THREE  WITNESSES  CORROBORATE  THE  VISION   OF  JOSEPH 

Three  witnesses  corrobrated  Joseph  Smith's  wonderful  vision, 
and  in  that  testimony  which  they  give  they  bear  record  of  another 
truth,  the  immortality  of  man.  For  if  Jesus  Christ  lived  after  death, 
and  the  angel  Moroni  came  as  these  three  witnesses  declared,  then 
you  and  I  shall  live  after  death !  Man  is  immortal.  Oh,  what  a 
wonderful  revelation,  what  it  means  to  men  who  now  but  perfunc- 
torily and  in  a  conventional  manner  accept  the  gospel  of  Christ! 
These  three  men  testified : 

"Be  it  known  unto  all  nations,  kindreds,  tongues,  and  people,  unto  whom 
this  work  shall  come:  That  we,  through  the  grace  of  God  the  Father,  and 
our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  have  seen  the  plates  which  contain  this  record, 
which  is  a  record  of  the  people  of  Nephi,  and  also  of  the  Lamanites,  their 
brethren,  and  also  of  the  people  of  Jared,  who  came  from  the  tower  of 
which  hath  been  spoken.  And  we  also  know  that  they  have  been  trans- 
lated by  the  gift  and  power  of  God,  for  His  voice  hath  declared  it  unto  us." 

"Oliver  Cowdery,  David  Whitmer,  MartinHarris." 

I  will  not  take  time  to  read  all. 

One  of  the  most  pleasant  features  of  an  interesting  and  profit- 
able visit  that  I  recently  made  with  President  B.  H.  Roberts  through 
the  Eastern  States  mission,  was  our  coming  in  contact  with  scenes 
in  early  Church  history.  When  we  were  at  Palmyra  I  read  in  one  of 
the  local  papers  a  testimony,  or  memorandum,  given  by  a  man  who 
knew  these  three  witnesses  personally.  He  has  never  joined  the 
Church,  but  in  that  local  paper  I  read  this  testimony  of  the  integrity 
of  one  of  these  witnesses : 

John  H.  Gilbert,  on  September  8,  1892,  the  man  who  set  the 
type  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  says  this  of  Martin  Harris : 

"Martin  Harris  was  a  good  farmer  owning  a  farm  of  about  one  hundred 
and  fifty  acres  about  a  mile  north  of  Palmyra  village,  and  had  money  at 
interest.  Martin,  as  everybody  called  him,  was  considered  by  his  neighbors 
a  very  honest  man." 

Martin,  the  honest  man,  says  to  the  world,  "God's  voice  de- 
clared to  us  that  the  plates  from  which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was 
translated  are  true ;  an  angel  of  God  came  down  and  he  brought  and 
laid  before  our  eyes,  that  we  beheld  and  saw  the  records."  "A  very 
honest  man,"  bears  the  witness,  why  should  we  doubt  it? 

I  rejoiced  at  the  last  meeting  in  Pittsburgh  to  hear  President 
Roberts  bear  witness  in  a  most  inspirational  meeting,  that  he  heard 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


111 


David  Whitmer,  another  of  the  three  special  witnesses,  testify  in 
these  words  of  the  book: 

"Young  man,  if  that  book  (pointing  to  one  of  the  early  editions  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon)  is  not  true,  then  there  is  no  truth  in  this,  God's  world." 

The  integrity  of  these  three  witnesses  cannot  be  successfully 
questioned.  Men  who  heard  these  testimonies  direct  from  the 
witnesses  themselves  are  with  us,  and  their  witness  is  true. 

THE  WITNESS  OF  THE  SPIRIT 

But  there  is  a  greater  witness  than  the  witness  of  men,  great 
as  that  is.  If  we  receive  the  witness  of  man,  the  witness  of  God  is 
greater,  for  this  is  the  witness  of  God  which  he  has  testified  of  his 
Son :  "He  that  believeth  on  the  Son  of  God  hath  witness  in  him- 
self." There  is  a  witness  of  the  Spirit.  God  does  reveal  today  to 
the  human  soul  the  reality  of  the  resurrection  of  the  Lord,  the 
divinity  of  this  great  work,  the  truth,  the  divine  and  eternal  truth, 
that  God  lives,  not  as  a  power,  an  essence,  a  force,  as  electricity,  but 
as  our  Father  in  heaven.  Oh,  why  do  men  try  to  make  that  power, 
recognized  by  science  and  religion  everywhere,  a  mere  force.  I 
sometimes  wish  that  such  men  would  kneel  down  and  try  to  pray 
to  electricity.  Imagine  trying  to  pray  to  electricity !  You  can't 
do  it,  and  yet  that  is  one  of  the  greatest  known  forces.  You  can, 
however,  pray  to  God  the  Father,  a  personal  being.  God  reveals  to 
the  soul  his  existence.  He  reveals  the  deity  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  who  came  to  earth  to  give  to  men  the  great  reality  of  the 
existence  of  God  and  his  Son ;  and  in  that  spirit  and  with  such 
witness  in  my  soul  I  bear  testimony  today  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world : 

"I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives, 
What  comfort  this  sweet  sentence  gives, 
He  lives,  He  lives  who  once  was  dead; 
He  lives,  my  ever  living  head. 
He  lives,  all  glory  to  his  name! 
He  lives,  my  Savior  still  the  same, 

0  the  sweet  joy  this  sentence  gives, 

1  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives." 

God  help  us  and  all  the  world  to  sense  the  reality,  that  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  established  among  men,  and  through  obedi- 
ence to  it  the  Fatherhood  of  God  and  the  brotherhood  of  man  may 
become  realities  to  every  son  and  daughter  of  Adam.  God  hasten  the 
day  when  that  testimony  will  be  real  in  every  heart,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

I  feel  very  humble  and  never  have  I  felt  more  than  I  do  today 
to  rejoice  in  the  revelations  of  the  Lord,  especially  in  those  that 
have  come  to  us  in  this  dispensation.    It  has  caused  my  heart  to 


212 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


swell  within  me  as  I  have  listened  to  the  testimonies  from  our 
brethren  as  they  have  borne  witness  that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  our  Redeemer  and  the  Son  of  God.  I  desire  to  add  a  few 
words  of  testimony  to  these  great  truths,  knowing  as  I  do  that  not 
only  the  brethren  on  this  stand,  but  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
are  also  able  to  bear  the  same  testimony,  because  these  things  have 
been  made  known  to  you  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

TO  KNOW  GOD  AND  JESUS  CHRIST  IS  LIFE  ETERNAL 

In  a  prayer  uttered  by  our  Savior  just  before  his  death,  he  said : 

"And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee,  the  only  true  God 
and  Jesus  Christ  whom  thou  hast  sent. 

"I  have  glorified  thee  on  the  earth;  I  have  finished  the  work  which 
thou  gavest  me  to  do. 

"And  now,  O  Father,  glorify  thou  me  with  thine  own  self  with  the 
glory  which  I  had  with  thee  before  the  world  was." 

I  know,  as  these  our  brethren  know,  that  God  lives ;  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  Only  Begotton  Son  of  God  in  the  flesh,  and  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world.  But  I  have  not  learned  all  that  there  is  to 
know  about  him  and  our  Father,  neither  have  you,  for  in  this  mortal 
life  it  is  impossible  for  us  fully  to  comprehend  the  mission  of  our 
Lord  and  Redeemer,  to  know  him  and  just  who  and  what  he  is,  and 
the  extent  of  the  great  work  he  accomplished.  But  if  we  shall  be 
worthy  to  enter  into  the  presence  of  God  the  Father  and  Jesus 
Christ  his  Son  and  there  be  crowned  with  exaltation,  it  will  be 
necessary  for  us  to  know  them  in  the  fullness.  However,  until  we 
do  enter  into  their  presence  and  receive  this  great  blessing,  we  will 
not  fully  know  the  only  true  God  and  Jesus  Christ  whom  he  has 
sent. 

THE  PRE-EXISTENCE  OF  CHRIST 

A  very  significant  thing  in  this  prayer  is  the  expression,  "And 
now,  Father,  glorify  thou  me  with  thine  own  self  with  the  glory 
which  I  had  with  thee  before  the  world  was."  The  work  accom- 
plished by  our  Savior  did  not  begin  when  he  came  into  this  world 
a  babe  at  Bethlehem.  A  great  work  had  already  been  accomplished 
by  him  before  he  came  here,  and  he  exercised  authority  in  the 
eternities,  under  his  Father,  before  this  world  was  framed,  but  not 
with  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones. 

John,  the  beloved  disciple,  bearing  witness  of  this,  says : 

"In  the  beginning  was  the  Word,  and  the  Word  was  with  God,  and 
the  Word  was  God. 

"The  same  was  in  the  beginning  with  God. 

"All  things  were  made  by  him;  and  without  him  was  not  anything 
made  that  was  made. 

"In  him  was  life;  and  the  life  was  the  light  of  men. 

"And  the  light  shineth  in  darkness;  and  the  darkness  comprehendeth 
it  not." 

THE  WORK  OF  CHRIST  TO  BRING  TO  PASS  IMMORTALITY  AND 
ETERNAL  LIFE 

Jesus  Christ  was  the  light  of  men  before  he  came  here  to  die. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  113 


Under  the  direction  of  his  Father  he  created  worlds — great  earths 
for  habitation  by  the  children  of  God — and  exercised  authority  as 
the  Son  of  God,  the  first  begotten  in  the  spirit,  beyond  that  which 
we  can  comprehend.  In  the  scriptures,  known  to  us  as  the  Writ- 
ings of  Moses,  we  have  some  account  of  this  great  work  that  was 
performed  by  Jesus  Christ.  I  want  to  read  a  portion  of  the  con- 
versation, had  by  Moses  with  the  Lord,  and  recorded  in  this  scrip- 
ture : 

"And  the  Lord  God  said  unto  Moses:  For  mine  own  purpose  have  I 
made  these  things.    Here  is  wisdom  and  it  remaineth  in  me. 

"And  by  the  word  of  my  power,  have  I  created  them,  which  is  mine 
Only  Begotten  Son,  who  is  full  of  grace  and  truth. 

"And  worlds  without  number  have  I  created;  and  I  also  created  them 
for  mine  own  purpose;  and  by  the  Son  I  created  them,  which  is  mine  Only 
Begotten. 

"And  the  first  man  of  all  men  have  I  called  Adam,  which  is  many. 

"But  only  an  account  of  this  earth,  and  the  inhabitants  thereof,  give  I 
unto  you.  For  behold,  there  are  many  worlds  that  have  passed  away  by 
the  word  of  my  power.  And  there  are  many  that  now  stand,  and  innumer- 
able are  they  unto  man;  but  all  things  are  numbered  unto  me,  for  they  are 
mine  and  I  know  them. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  Moses  spake  unto  the  Lord,  saying:  Be 
merciful  unto  thy  servant,  O  God,  and  tell  me  concerning  this  earth,  and  the 
inhabitants  thereof,  and  also  the  heavens,  and  thy  servant  will  be  content. 

"And  the  Lord  God  spake  unto  Moses,  saying:  The  heavens  they  are 
many,  and  they  cannot  be  numbered  unto  man;  but  they  are  numbered  unto 
me,  for  they  are  mine. 

"And  as  one  earth  shall  pass  away,  and  the  heavens  thereof,  even  so 
shall  another  come;  and  there  is  no  end  to  my  works,  neither  to  my  words. 

"For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  im- 
mortality and  eternal  life  of  man." 

So  we  see  by  this  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  light  and  the  life  of 
men,  he  was  a  Creator  before  this  world  was  made.  But  we  are  not 
concerned  so  much  just  now  with  the  works  he  then  performed,  nor 
are  we  concerned  just  now  with  these  other  worlds  and  their  in- 
habitants. 

LIFE  DID  NOT  ORIGINATE  ON  THE  EARTH 

This  we  know,  and  that  will  suffice  until  all  things  are  revealed, 
the  inhabitants  of  these  worlds  created  by  Jesus  Christ,  are  begotten 
sons  and  daughters  unto  God.  Life  did  not  originate  here;  man 
did  not  first  come  into  existence  here.  We  are  told  by  our  Father 
in  heaven,  that  man  is  eternal,  that  he  has  always  existed,  and  that 
all  life  on  this  earth  came  from  elsewhere.  We  may  not  be  able  to 
comprehend  all  this  now,  but  the  time  will  come  in  the  providence 
of  the  Lord,  when  all  these  things  shall  be  made  known  and  we  shall 
have  knowledge  in  the  fullness. 

THE  FAITHFUL  PROMISED  ETERNAL  LIFE 

The  thing  we  are  vitally  interested  in  in  this  life  is  stated 
in  that  expression :  "For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — ■ 
to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man."  This 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


truth  is  vital  to  every  faithful  Latter-day  Saint,  for  we  have  had 
committed  into  our  care  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  have  been 
commissioned  and  given  power  through  the  Priesthood,  to  go  forth 
and  proclaim  this  message  of  salvation  in  all  the  world.  We  are 
to  bear  witness  to  the  fact  that  God  our  Father,  through  the  re- 
demption made  by  Jesus  Christ  his  Son,  has  granted  unto  all  men 
the  power  of  forgiveness  and  remission  of  sin  through  their  faith, 
repentance,  and  baptism  in  water,  by  which  they  may  come  back,  if 
they  will  be  faithful  in  keeping  his  commandments  to  the  end, 
and  enjoy  eternal  life  in  his  presence.  Through  the  mercy  of  God 
all  men  are  to  receive  immortality,  and  to  those  who  are  willing 
to  serve  and  be  obedient  to  all  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  he 
has  promised  another  great  blessing  known  as  eternal  life.  Immor- 
tality means  life  without  death,  and  eternal  life  means  much  more 
than  that,  it  is  life  in  the  presence  of  God  and  in  the  presence  of 
Jesus  Christ  his  Son,  there  to  receive  the  fullness  of  the  blessings 
and  the  power  which  the  Father  has  promised  to  his  sons  and 
daughters  who,  through  the  keeping  of  the  commandments  are 
found  just  and  true.  All  who  receive  the  gospel  and  endure  in 
faith  to  the  end  are  heirs  to  the  blessings  of  this  great  promise — 
eternal  life. 

When  the  Savior  stood  at  the  well  in  conversation  with  the 
woman  of  Samaria,  he  gave  her  some  very  important  instruction 
regarding  eternal  life.  There  he  also  declared  himself  to  be  the 
Son  of  God.  He  asked  her  for  water  to  drink,  and  in  turn  promised 
her  and  all  who  would  believe  on  him  and  keep  his  sayings,  that  to 
them  he  would  give  water  which  if  they  would  drink  of  it  they 
would  never  thirst.    It  is  written : 

"Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  her,  Whosoever  drinketh  of  this  water 
shall  thirst  again,"  (He  was  speaking  of  the  water  in  the  well),  "but  who- 
soever drinketh  of  the  water  that  I  shall  give  him  shall  never  thirst,  but 
the  water  that  I  shall  give  him  shall  be  in  him  a  well  springing  up  unto 
everlasting  life." 

On  another  occasion  when  teaching  the  Jews,  they  asked  Jesus 
what  sign  he  could  show,  or  what  great  work  he  had  accomplished, 
to  prove  his  ministry.  They  referred  to  Moses  and  to  the  manna 
that  the  Lord  had  sent  to  the  children  of  Israel  when  they  were  in 
the  wilderness.    The  Lord  answered  them  thus : 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you  Moses  gave  you  not  that  bread  from 
heaven,  but  my  Father  giveth  you  the  true  bread  from  heaven. 

"For  the  bread  of  God  is  he  that  cometh  down  from  heaven,  and  giveth 
life  unto  the  world." 

So  he  declared  himself  to  be  the  water  of  life  and  the  bread  of 
life,  and  made  the  promise  that  those  who  would  receive  this  water 
and  this  bread  should  never  thirst,  and  never  hunger,  their  souls 
would  be  satisfied.  They  misunderstood  him ;  the  woman  thought 
he  spoke  of  water  which  quenches  thirst.  The  Jews  thought  he 
spoke  of  bread  which  sustains  the  body,  but  he  was  speaking  of  the 
principles  of  the  gospel,  these  principles  of  eternal  life  which,  if  the 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  115 


people  would  live  them,  would  bring  them  back  into  the  presence 
of  the  Father. 

Again  he  said : 

"I  am  the  light  of  the  world.  He  that  followeth  me  shall  not  walk  in 
darkness,  but  shall  have  the  light  of  life." 

This  is  my  testimony.  I  know  these  things  are  true.  I  know 
that  if  we  are  obedient  to  the  laws  and  principles  of  the  gospel  as 
they  have  been  made  known  to  us,  if  we  will  walk  in  righteousness 
and  endure  in  faith  that  we  shall  obtain  eternal  life.  This  life  will 
bring  us  back  into  the  presence  of  God,  there  to  dwell  in  the  full- 
ness of  light,  there  to  know  our  eternal  Father,  the  only  true  God 
and  Jesus  Christ  whom  he  has  sent.  Those  who  do  not  dwell  there 
shall  not  know  them,  for  they  shall  not  be  blessed  with  eternal 
life,  which  is  God's  life,  although  they  may  be  in  possession  of 
immortality,  for  all  men  will  receive  the  gift  of  the  resurrection 
through  the  atonement  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  must  have  faith  in 
Jesus  Christ  as  the  Son  of  God.  We  must  believe  in  the  Father,  in 
the  Son,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost,  as  three  separate  and  distinct  per- 
sonages, the  Father  and  the  Son  having  bodies  of  flesh  and  bones, 
not  blood.  We  are  misunderstood  by  many  people  when  we  say 
that  Jesus  Christ  has  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones  and  his  Father  also, 
and  they  naturally  conclude  that  such  a  body  must  be  quickened  by 
the  blood,  but  the  body  after  the  resurrection  is  not  quickened  by 
blood,  but  is  quickened  by  spirit,  and  is  immortal.  We  must  believe 
in  the  Father,  Son  and  Holy  Ghost  as  the  great  governing  power 
of  the  universe.  It  is  necessary  for  men  to  repent  of  their  sins  in 
order  to  have  perfect  faith,  and  after  repenting  of  their  sins  it  is 
necessary  that  they  have  their  sins  remitted  in  the  waters  of  bap- 
tism, that  they  be  cleansed  in  the  manner  which  the  Lord  has  pro- 
vided and  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  by  which  they  may 
come  back  again  from  spiritual  death  to  spiritual  life,  to  dwell  in 
the  presence  of  the  Father  and  the  Son. 

CONDITIONS   UNDER   WHICH   MEN    MAY  SECURE  SALVATION 

In  conclusion  let  me  read  these  words  by  revelation  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the  day  on  which  this  Church  was  organ- 
ized : 

"And  we  know  that  all  men  must  repent  and  believe  on  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and  worship  the  Father  in  his  name,  and  endure  in  faith  on 
his  name  to  the  end,  or  they  cannot  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

"And  we  know  that  justification  through  the  grace  of  the  Lord  and 
Savior  Jesus  Christ  is  just  and  true; 

"And  we  know  also,  that  sanctification  through  the  grace  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior  Jesus  Christ,  is  just  and  true  to  all  those  who  love  and  serve 
God  with  all  their  mights,  minds  and  strength. 

"But  there  is  a  possibility  that  man  may  fall  from  grace  and  depart 
•from  the  living  God. 

"Therefore  let  the  Church  take  heed  and  pray  always,  lest  they  fall 
into  temptation." 


116  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


We  are  not  saved  now.  I  have  stood  on  the  street  corners  and 
heard  men  declaring  that  they  are  saved,  because  they  have  received 
religion  and  been  converted.  No  man  is  saved  as  long  as  mortality 
endures,  unless  he  is  'faithful  to  the  end,  and  there  is  always  a  pos- 
sibility, as  I  have  read  to  you  here,  that  men  may  fall  from  grace. 

So,  it  behooves  us,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  to  be  faithful,  to  keep 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  to  walk  in  righteousness  all  the 
days  of  our  lives.  Thus  through  obedience  to  those  command- 
ments which  are  set  forth  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  by 
continuance  therein,  we  shall  receive  immortality,  glory,  eternal 
life,  and  dwell  in  the  presence  of  God  the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ,  where  we  shall  truly  know  them.  Oh,  I  pray  that  we 
may  endure,  that  we  may  receive  these  blessings,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "O  ye  mountains  high." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Datus  E.  Hammond, 
president  of  the  Pioneer  stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

AFTERNOON  SESSION 

At  2  o'clock,  President  Heber  J.  Grant  announced  the  opening 
hymn,  "Do  what  is  right,  the  day-dawn  is  breaking." 

After  singing  by  the  choir  and  congregation,  prayer  was  offered 
by  Elder  William  R.  Palmer,  President  of  the  Parowan  stake. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Now  let  us  rejoice." 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

I  am  humbled  in  the  presence  of  this  vast  assembly.  It  is  the 
earnest  desire  of  my  heart  to  make  at  least  a  small  contribution  to 
this  great  conference  of  the  Church.  I  recognize,  however,  that  I  can 
hope  to  do  that  only  through  the  aid  of  our  Father's  Spirit,  and  I  sin- 
cerely pray  that  I  may  have  his  Spirit  to  guide  and  direct  me  in  the 
remarks  which  I  shall  make. 

THE  NATURE  AND  VALUE  OF  TESTIMONY 

I,  with  you,  have  listened  with  great  interest  and  profit  to  the 
testimonies  which  have  been  borne  during  this  conference,  and  I 
have  sat  under  the  spell  of  the  inspired  words  which  have  fallen 
from  the  lips  of  those  upon  whom  the  Spirit  of  God  has  been  oper- 
ating. I  have  thought  of  the  value  of  testimony,  and  I  should  like, 
with  your  indulgence,  to  discuss  for  a  few  moments  the  nature  of 
testimony.  What  is  the  testimony  of  Jesus  Christ?  I  do  not  have 
reference  to  a  differentiation  between  and  among  the  various  terms 
of  scripture  which  are  used  to  designate  the  testimony  of  Jesus.  I 
am  not  particularly  concerned  that  in  some  instances  it  may  be 
called  the  gospel,  or  faith,  or  the  Holy  Spirit,  or  the  Comforter,  or 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


117 


even  the  Holy  Ghost.  It  is  the  nature  and  essence  of  this  Spirit 
which  brings  conviction  to  the  hearts  of  people  that  has  brought 
me  to  think  and  reflect  upon  it. 

MORE  THAN  JUST  A  MENTAL  STATUS 

Is  it  more  than  just  a  mental  status,  a  psychological  phenom- 
enon which  may  be  changed  with  the  state  of  a  man's  mind,  today 
believing  and  knowing,  and  tomorrow  forgetting  and  denying? 
Has  it  constituency,  essence,  and  force?  These  questions  have 
given  me  food  for  much  thought  and  reflection.  I  am  persuaded 
that  the  testimony  of  Jesus  is  something  indescribable,  but  never- 
theless some  real  tangible  thing  that  has  force  and  power,  some- 
thing which  serves,  when  once  taken  into  the  structure  of  a  man's 
life,  to  work  therein  a  transformation,  to  change  some  of  the  vital 
elements  which  are  part  and  parcel  of  his  life. 

GREAT  SPIRITUAL  FORCE 

Great  physical  forces  themselves  defy  the  efforts  of  science  to 
fully  describe  and  comprehend  them.  Science  has  not  given  the 
constituency *of  gravity.  What  is  light?  What  is  electricity ?  What 
is  heat?  As  I  understand  it,  we  know  these  great  forces  of  nature 
only  by  the  effects  which  they  produce.  We  see  their  manifesta- 
tions and  we  conclude  that  they  exist,  but  can  we  describe  them? 
I  believe  that  with  all  the  advancement  made  in  the  processes  of 
scientific  research  and  investigation  they  are  yet  mysteries  to  the 
intelligence  of  man.  Is  it  unthinkable  that  just  as  light,  heat  and 
gravity  are  great  forces  of  nature,  bringing  to  bear  upon  the  whole 
universe  the  results  and  manifestations  of  their  power,  that  there 
may  be  in  the  world  of  men  a  force  somewhat  comparable,  coming 
from  God,  which  takes  lodgment  in  the  very  beings  of  men  and  there 
brings  about  these  transformations,  these  remarkable  manifesta- 
tions, not  at  all  incomparable  with  those  manifestations  that  come 
from  the  operation  of  the  physical  forces. 

That  a  transformation  is  worked  in  the  being  of  a  man  into 
whose  heart  comes  the  testimony  of  Christ  is  beyond  all  question. 
Examples  are  so  numerous  that  they  would,  of  course,  not  bear  ex- 
tensive repeating  at  this  time. 

THE  MIRACULOUS  CHANGE  WROUGHT  BY  TESTIMONY 

When  Saul  received  into  his  heart  and  soul  that  some- 
thing which  we  call  a  testimony,  was  he  the  same  man  who 
before  had  persecuted  the  Christians.  No,  he  was  a  changed 
man.  All  his  ideals,  his  conceptions,  his  works  were  changed 
by  something  that  came  into  his  life  and  wrought  a  miracle 
within  it.  When  our  missionaries  go  out  into  their  fields  of  labor, 
stand  upon  their  feet,  and  there  proclaim  the  testimonies  within 
them,  do  they  not  give  expression  to  a  force,  a  power,  which  has 
been  operative  within  the  very  structures  of  their  lives,  and  does 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


not  that  very  force  in  some  way  go  from  them  to  others  to  work 
a  miracle?  Is  it  just  what  they  say,  or  the  description  which  they 
give  of  the  gospel  plan,  or  their  appeal  to  reason,  which  touches  the 
hearts  of  this  one  and  that  one,  out  of  great  multitudes,  and  brings 
someone  to  say:  "I  know  what  they  have  said  is  true?"  Or  is 
there  a  transfusion  in  some  indescribable  way  of  a  thing  of  essence 
from  the  personality  of  that  humble  servant  of  God  into  the  con- 
vert that  makes  him  feel  and  know?  What  is  it  that  causes  a  man 
who  has  strayed  from  the  path  of  truth,  who  has  been  inactive  in 
the  Church,  after  years,  perhaps,  of  waywardness,  when  all  at  once 
confronted  with  the  necessity  of  defending  the  faith,  prompts  him 
to  rise  and  stand  up  like  a  man  and  say :  "After  all,  I  know  the 
gospel  is  true"?  Has  there  not  been  something  ingrained  within 
him  that  stays  with  him,  a  very  integral  part  of  his  makeup  ? 

TESTIMONY  COMPARABLE  TO  PHYSICAL  FORCE 

Sometimes  I  have  thought  that  testimony,  this  something 
which  has  such  tremendous  force  and  power  in  the  life  of  a  man,  is 
not  uncomparable  to  those  antitoxins  which  science  has  discovered 
to  procure  immunity  from  disease.  I  doubt  not  that  but  a  few 
years  ago  if  the  world  had  been  told  that  there  were  ways  of  ward- 
ing off  yellow  fever,  typhoid,  smallpox  and  other  highly  contagious 
diseases  that  there  would  have  been  general  disbelief.  Today  these 
are  proven  facts.  The  mere  injection  of  a  serum  into  the  blood  will 
procure  a  substantial  immunity  which  has  saved  the  lives  of  thou- 
sands and  hundreds  of  thousands  of  people  from  these  diseases 
which  once  mowed  down  the  human  family  in  great  epidemics,  as 
the  machine  would  mow  dowh  the  ripened  grain.  May  there  not 
be  something  akin  to  this  in  the  form  of  testimony  that  is  injected 
into  the  very  blood  of  a  man,  which  wards  off  the  disease  of  sin 
and  makes  a  man  immune  from  those  microbes  that  come  from  the 
hand  of  Satan,  scattered  about  among  the  human  family  to  encour- 
age wrong-doing  and  departure  from  the  established  course  of 
righteousness?  I  do  not  know  that  such  a  comparison  is  proper  or 
illuminating,  but  this  I  do  know,  that  sin  is  disease  and  that  the 
testimony  of  Christ  procures  immunity  from  that  disease.  Not  that 
man  is  deprived  of  his  agency,  but  that  while  he  reacts  and  responds 
to  the  great  force  and  power  of  testimony,  disease  in  the  form  of 
sin  has  no  power  over  him,  and  into  his  life  there  comes  a  protec- 
tion against  a  more  dreaded  disease  than  any  of  those  contagions 
which  have  been  mitigated  by  the  discoveries  of  science.  This  pro- 
tection, this  immunity  from  disease  and  sin,  is  open  to  all. 

THE  BLOOD  OF  ISRAEL  SUSCEPTIBLE  TO  THE  INFLUENCE  OF  THE  SPIRIT 

It  seems  to  me,  however,  that  there  runs  in  some  blood  strains 
a  higher  susceptibility  to  the  refining  and  saving  influence  of  testi- 
mony than  in  other  strains.    I  don't  know  that  I  understand  it,  but 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


119 


I  have  thought  that  the  significance  of  the  "blood  of  Israel"  is  that 
there  is  in  that  great  blood  strain,  following  the  blessings  and  prom- 
ises of  God,  a  susceptibility  to  the  influence  of  the  Holy  Spirit, 
that  does  not  run  in  other  strains.  Science  has  made  some  rather 
remarkable  discoveries  upon  the  inherited  traits  and  qualities  that 
go  with  blood  strains.  I  have  been  reading  of  late  some  very  in- 
teresting material  with  reference  to  the  development  of  that  phase 
'  of  scientific  research.  It  is  pointed  out  that  experiments  conducted 
on  very  large  scales  demonstrate  beyond  substantially  any  doubt 
that  intelligence  is  inheritable,  and,  we  with  our  training,  can 
readily  believe  it.  It  would  not  take  much  to  convince  us  that 
there  descends  from  father  to  son  tendencies  and  traits  which  make 
for  or  against  the  improvement  of  the  race.  These  very  things  are 
said  to  run  in  the  blood  itself.  I  believe  that  testimony  runs  in 
the  blood.  I  believe  that  it  is  inheritable,  and  that  the  tendency  to 
faith  may  descend  from  father  to  son.  It  seems  to  me  that  Paul 
had  that  in  mind  when  writing  to  Timothy,  he  said  in  substance : 
"I  do  perceive  in  thee  the  faith  that  was  in  thy  grandmother  Lois," 
thus  recognizing  that  this  tendency  to  faith,  this  susceptibility  to 
testimony,  courses  along  in  the  very  blood  strains  of  the  race. 

IS  TESTIMONY  SUSCEPTIBLE  TO  PROOF? 

Is  this  that  we  call  testimony  susceptible  of  definite,  tangible 
proof?  To  me  it  is.  I  recognize  that  by  the  use  of  my  ordinary 
senses, — hearing,  smelling,  seeing,  and  touch,  I  demonstrate  the 
existence  of  things.  I  prove  to  my  satisfaction  their  materiality 
and  the  operation  of  the  laws  of  nature  so  far  as  I  know  them.  To 
me  the  operations  of  the  Spirit  of  God  within  the  structure  of  my 
life  are  as  tangible,  as  susceptible  of  definite,  concrete  proof  as  the 
operations  of  many  of  the  laws  of  nature.  When  I  respond  to  this 
that  I  call  my  testimony,  my  heart  warms,  my  body  thrills.  I  feel 
the  tingle  of  it.  A  satisfaction,  a  peace,  a  contentment,  a  joy  that 
transcends  description,  envelops  me.  It  is  the  proof  to  me  that  it 
is  there,  and  so  I  assert  it  is  susceptible  of  tangible  proof  and  dem- 
onstration. Is  it  susceptible  of  scientific  analysis?  Yes,  if  the 
scientist  will  apply  the  test  which  is  prescribed  to  demonstrate  its 
truth.  We  may  say  to  any  scientist,  to  any  man  who  inquires, 
just  what  God  has  said:  "If  you  do  my  work  and  my  will  and  keep 
my  commandments  you  shall  know  whether  it  be  the  work  of  God 
or  man."  Are  we  justified  in  taking  any  other  method  than  the 
method  prescribed  to  determine  the  existence  of  testimony?  I 
leave  that  thought  for  the  reflection  of  those  who  would  test  the 
actuality  of  a  testimony,  for  I  know  that  it  will  come  to  every  one 
who  applies  the  prescribed  method  of  attaining  it. 

TESTIMONY  PRODUCES  GOOD  FRUITS 

This  testimony  which  is  such  an  actuality  always  produces 
good  fruits.    Its  results  never  vary.    I  know  that  it  is  said  that 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

monstrous  and  terrible  crimes  have  been  committed  in  the  name  of 
religion.  That  may  be  true,  but  I  say  that  no  crime  and  no  offense 
against  the  justice  of  God  has  ever  been  committed  under  the  in- 
fluence of  the  testimony  of  Jesus  and  the  Spirit  of  God.  Men  who 
have  professed  religion  in  organized  or  individual  capacity  have 
been  guilty  of  heinous  sin,  but  they  were  not  under  the  influence 
of  the  testimony  of  Christ  when  they  committed  such  sin.  Testi- 
mony always  brings  to  pass  those  things  desirable  for  the  race,  be- 
cause it  is  consistent  with  truth,  being  the  very  spirit  of  truth. 

THE  CRIME  OF  PLACING  OBSTACLES  IN  THE  WAY  OF  OBTAINING 

TESTIMONY 

This  testimony  is  acquired  by  many  with  difficulty.  I  suppose 
that  we  often  wish  that  it  could  be  more  easily  obtained,  and  that 
it  would  come  more  generally  to  the  people  of  the  world,  but  God 
in  his  providence  has  made  it  somewhat  difficult  of  attainment. 
Being  so  difficult  to  acquire,  it  seems  to  me  to  be  a  very  serious 
thing  to  place  one  obstacle  in  the  way  of  its  attainment.  I  have 
wondered  how  it  is  that  men  who  profess  great  learning  and  intelli- 
gence can  throw  an  obstacle  into  the  way  of  him  who  seeks  the  ac- 
quisition of  this  testimony.  It  may  be  that  it  is  often  done  inno- 
cently. It  may  be  that  those  who  destroy  faith  are  not  fully  aware 
of  the  consequences  of  their  acts.  If  it  be  so,  I  trust  God  will  be 
merciful  to  them,  but  I  cannot  think  but  that  the  Lord  will  hold 
responsible  any  man  or  woman  who  has  increased  the  difficulty 
of  another  to  obtain  this  light,  this  testimony  of  the  divinity  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

It  is  a  matter  of  great  regret  that  in  our  schools  and  colleges 
there  are  those  who  pass  under  the  designation  of  educated  men 
and  women,  who  seem  to  rejoice  in  the  destruction  of  the  testi- 
mony and  the  faith  of  young  people.  I  warn  them  that  a  persist- 
ence on  their  part  to  destroy  faith  and  to  keep  this  great  thing  we 
call  testimony  from  reaching  the  hearts  of  students,  young  men 
and  young  women,  will  constitute  an  offense  in  the  sight  of  God 
for  which  they  shall  be  held  accountable. 

LET  NOT  THE  THEORIES  OF  DOCTORS  OF  PHILOSOPHY  DESTROY  YOUR 

TESTIMONY 

I  could  wish  that  the  faith  of  our  young  folks  were  so  well 
established  as  to  give  them  security,  even  in  the  face  of  these  dan- 
gerous situations.  We  can  say  to  them,  God  has  revealed  the  truth, 
that  truth  will  never  change,  all  the  discoveries  of  science  will  in 
the  end  but  serve  to  confirm  it.  Therefore,  young  men,  young 
women,  keep  your  minds  open,  do  not  forsake  the  wisdom  of  the 
ages  for  the  theories  of  a  Ph.  D. 

TESTIMONY    INSEPARABLY   ASSOCIATED    WITH    HAPPINESS    AND  JOY 

I  thank  God  that  I  have  a  testimony.  It  is  the  greatest  posses- 
sion of  my  own  life.    It  is  inseparably  associated  with  all  that 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


121 


makes  for  happiness  and  joy.  It  contemplates  with  me  everything 
that  really  makes  life  worth  living — my  intelligence,  my  priesthood, 
my  relationship  to  God,  to  man,  to  my  family, — all  comes  from 
this  testimony,  that  God  has  been  good  enough  and  kind  enough  to 
implant  within  my  soul.  I  know  that  it  exists.  I  know  that  it  has 
essence,  that  it  is  a  real  thing,  and  that  it  will  always  be  in  me.  I 
do  not  know  that  I  will  always  respond  to  it  as  I  ought.  I  pray  to 
God  that  I  shall  always  have  the  courage  to  do  it,  because  I  know 
that  it  will  always  lead  me  to  right  and  to  happiness. 

I  pray  too  that  everyone  may  feel  the  full  import  and  impress 
of  this  great  and  wonderful  blessing  that  God  has  given,  a  testi- 
mony of  the  Christ.  Would  that  all.  of  our  young  people  could 
know  just  what  happiness  it  brings  and  just  how  it  enriches  their 
lives.  May  the  Lord  in  his  mercy  make  it  possible  for  every  young 
man  and  every  young  woman  to  receive  a  testimony  of  Jesus 
Christ  as  a  bulwark  against  sin  and  danger  and-temptation,  I  hum- 
bly pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  soprano  solo,  "Calvary,"  was  sung  by  Mrs.  Edna  Stromberg. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

The  virility  of  the  Church  is  the  testimony  of  which  Brother 
Stephen  L.  Richards  has  just  spoken.  We  have  in  the  mission  field 
thousands  who  are  giving  their  time  and  paying  their  own  expenses, 
and  preaching  the  gospel — because  in  their  souls  there  burns  this 
satisfying  and  impelling  testimony.  I  predict  that  many  of  our 
older  and  more  experienced  church  members  who  have  this  same 
testimony  burning  in  their  hearts  will  respond  to  the  appeal  that 
has  been  made  by  President  Grant  to  go  for  about  six  months  into 
the  various  parts  of  the  United  States  and  our  neighboring  coun- 
tries at  their  own  expense  and  preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
What  but  this  testimony  could  induce  people  to  render  such  a 
service  ? 

A  TRIP  TO  THE  MEXICAN  MISSION 

I  returned  recently  from  an  extremely  interesting  trip  with 
President  Rey  L.  Pratt  and  Dr.  George  W.  Middleton  through  the 
Mexican  mission.  Our  neighbor  on  the  south  is  a  country  with 
great  resources  and  unusual  possibilities.  The  climate,  especially 
in  those  great  valleys  around  the  City  of  Mexico,  is  neither  too 
warm  nor  too  cold.  The  temperature  rarely  reaches  70  degrees  and 
very  rarely  gets  as  low  as  60  degrees.  No  provision  is  made  for 
heated  buildings,  artificial  heat  being  unnecessary.  The  history  of 
the  country  thrills  with  romance.  The  ancient  ruins  of  temples, 
cities,  and  palaces,  showing  a  knowledge  of  engineering  and  con- 
struction which  it  is  well  nigh  impossible  to  explain,  has  an  in- 
tense interest  to  all  of  us  who  are  familiar  with,  and  interested  in, 
the  Book  of  Mormon. 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  president  of  this  mission  is  thoroughly  filled  with  a  love 
for  the  Mexican  or  Indian  people  who  reside  in  our  neighbor  re- 
public. Average  people  have  hardly  a  greater  interest  in  their  blood 
relatives  than  has  President  Rey  L.  Pratt  in  the  Mexican  people. 
An  eloquent  speaker,  he  knows  their  language  more  perfectly  than 
many  of  them  know  it  themselvees. 

You  who  have  sons  and  daughters  in  that  mission  have  reason 
to  be  proud  of  them.  They  are  dignified,  business-like,  earnest  and 
unselfish.  They  are  carrying  to  the  people  of  Mexico  lessons  in 
sanitation,  agriculture,  and  even  in  ventilation.  They  are  helping 
to  build  churches  ;  and,  more  important  than  all  else,  they  are  carry- 
ing to  them  lessons  in  honor  and  honesty,  truth,  virtue,  and  faith, 
which  constitute  the  gospel. 

a  tribute;  TO  JOHN  j.  mcclellan 

While  I  would  like  to  say  more  about  the  Mexican  mission,  I 
shall  not  do  so  now  because  I  feel  that  this  occasion  demands  that  I 
say  something  concerning  the  life  and  accomplishments  of  my 
friend,  and  yours,  that  master  musician,  the  late  John  J.  McClellan. 
I  little  thought  six  months  ago  when,  in  conference,  we  were  stirred 
by  the  strains  of  the  great  organ,  operated  under  his  skillful  touch, 
that  he  would  not  be  here  today. 

It  is  twenty-nine  years  since  he  came  to  Salt  Lake  City.  A 
little  more  than  thirty  years  ago  he  and  I  were  boys  together  in 
Ann  Arbor,  Michigan.  I  was  a  student  in  the  Department  of  Civil 
Engineering  at  the  University,  and  he  was  studying  in  the  Michi- 
gan School  of  Music.  I  have  sat  at  the  end  of  his  piano  by  the  hour, 
thrilled  by  the  story  which  his  music  told.  In  those  days  he  was 
kind  enough  to  say  that  my  enjoyment  of  his  music  was  his  greatest 
encouragement. 

His  heart  was  deeply  and  truly  religious  as  well  as  musical. 
Once  when  a  group  of  voung  people  in  that  college  city  were  hold- 
ing a  testimony  meeting,  I  said,  "John,  will  you  play  for  us?" 
Thinking  I  had  asked  him  to  pray,  he  arose  and  poured  out  the 
genuine  fervor  of  his  soul  in  a  prayer  that  touched  our  hearts. 

At  twenty  he  led  the  Catholic  choir  in  Ann  Arbor.  He  com- 
posed the  mass  presented  in  that  great  music  center  on  Easter.  He 
not  only  led  the  choir  and  prepared  the  parts  for  the  singers,  but 
also  arranged  the  parts  for  the  orchestra.  Elsewhere  this  achieve- 
ment would  have  been  greatly  to  his  credit,  but  it  was  unusually  so 
in  that  great  musical  center. 

The  Columbian  organ,  constructed  for  the  World's  Fair  of  1893, 
and  secured  by  the  Michigan  School  of  Music,  was  the  first  great 
organ  on  which  McClellan  played.  His  teacher  was  Professor 
Stanley,  and  when  the  professor  himself  could  not  appear  at  recitals, 
McClellan  was  his  substitute.  Even  in  those,  his  boyhood  days,  he 
thrilled  the  audiences  which  filled  University  Hall. 

Shortly  before  his  death  Elbert  Hubbard  cancelled  his  reserva- 
tions to  hear  McClellan  play.    Later  in  the  Fra  he  wrote : 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


123 


"If  any  man  has  the  spirit  of  old  Bach  it  is  this  man  McClellan.  He 
is  a  wizard  of  the  keys. 

"I  thought  I  had  heard  organ  playing  before,  but  the  exquisite  modul- 
ations, the  tones  and  tints  of  sweet  sounds  that  this  man  produces  cannot 
be  described.  They  must  be  heard — and  more,  they  must  be  felt.  McClellan 
does  not  play  with  his  hands  and  feet;  he  plays  with  his  heart  and  head, 
and  the  keys  respond  to  love's  caress.  Only  high  intelligence,  sympathy, 
and  superb  imagination  can  produce  such  music. 

"What  Paderewski  is  to  the  piano,  McClellan  is  to  the  pipe-organ. 

"The  'Mormons'  make  great  use  of  instrumental  music.  Their  choral 
societies  deserve  to  rank  as  a  pattern  for  all  America." 

When  his  death  was  announced,  telegrams  and  letters  of  sym- 
pathy came  to  his  family  from  England,  France,  Germany,  even 
from  Japan  and  the  islands  of  the  sea.  Wherever  people  are  found 
who  are  interested  in  music,  there  it  seems  John  J.  McClellan  is 
not  only  known  but  loved. 

A  letter  to  the  professor  himself  from  one  of  his  students  in 
France,  which  came  after  his  death,  says  in  part : 

"We  have  quite  a  little  colony  here,  and  you  are  often  the  subject  of 
our  conversation.  We  are  all  intensely  interested  in  your  welfare.  .  .  Dupre 
gave  a  recital  on  the  new  organ  recently.  It  was  of  course  a  great  perform- 
ance. He  talked  to  us  after  the  concert  and  inquired  especially  of  you.  He 
expressed  deep  interest  in  you  personally,  in  your  work  and  asked  to  be 
remembered  to  you  most  sincerely."  (Dupre  is  one  of  the  world's  greatest 
organists.) 

The  secretary  of  the  Municipal  Band  of  Long  Beach,  Calif., 
writes : 

"Mr.  McClellan  was  known  to  nearly  every  member  of  this  band,  and 
they  admired  and  esteemed  him  for  his  high  character  and  they  felt  honored 
in  his  friendship.  In  his  personal  and  professional  life  he  has  left  a  monu- 
ment in  which  his  family  and  friends  may  take  the  utmost  pride.  .  .  .  Many 
in  Long  Beach  have  been  looking  forward  to  the  time  when  we  might  have 
a  new  auditorium,  with  John  J.  McClellan  seated  at  a  wonderful  organ 
exercising  the  magic  of  his  musicianship  on  the  keyboard  in  the  style  in 
which  he  had  so  few  peers." 

Mr.  H.  C.  Bush  wrote  from  Chicago: 

"He  was.  a  genius  in  his  personality  as  well  as  in  his  art,  and  his  light 
shone  brightly  all  over  this  broad  land.  .  .  He  was  ambitious  beyond  his 
physical  strength,  and  like  a  good  soldier,  he  died  fighting." 

Wrote  one  tourist  from  West  Virginia: 

"John  J.  McClellan  was  born  with  the  soul  of  a  genius  and  the  heart 
of  an  artist.  Probably  a  million  people  heard  him  in  Tabernacle  recitals. 
As  one  of  the  million  I  attended  a  recital  eight  years  ago.  I  acknowledge 
therefore  a  debt  which  I  can  never  repay." 

King  Albert  of  Belgium  was  so  pleased  with  his  music  that  he 
decorated  McClellan  with  the  order  of  the  crown.-  He  never  played 
games,  he  was  not  interested  in  football,  no  one  ever  saw  him  dance. 
He  devoted  himself  exclusively  to  his  art.  He  and  I  were  young 
men  together  in  the  old  Salt  Lake  stake  when  it  covered  all  of  Salt 
Lake  County.  On  many  occasions  while  I  was  stake  superintendent 
of  the  Mutuals  he  went  with  me  to  do  the  playing,  Thomas  Ash- 
worth  to  do  the  singing,  and  B.  F.  Grant  to  do  the  speaking.  The 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


meeting  houses  in  Salt  Lake  County  were  never  large  enough  to 
hold  the  multitudes  who  came  out  to  attend. 

He  was  always  ready  to  render  service.  The  last  time  I  saw 
him  it  was  to  ask  if  he  would  be  willing  at  an  irregular  hour  and  on 
an  unusual  day  to  give  a  recital  for  the  members  of  the  American 
Society  of  Civil  Engineers.  As  usual  he  answered  promptly,  "I 
will."  As  I  left  his  studio  with  William  R.  Wallace  I  said,  "He  is 
not  able,  nor  will  he  be,  to  play  at  that  recital.  He  is  not  well.  I 
fear  we  may  never  hear  him  play  again." 

While  I  have  not  seen  him  since,  the  words  he  handed  me  on 
that  occasion  concerning  the  great  organ,  I  used  in  a  public  address. 
Among  other  things  he  wrote: 

"The  organ  in  every  department  is  well  nigh  perfect.  It  is  one  of  the 
world's  greatest — a  master  instrument.  For  tone  it  has  no  equal.  Notables 
from  all  over  the  earth,  including  four  Presidents  of  the  United  States, 
Senators,  Congressmen,  the  nobility  of  Europe  and  the  king  and  queen  of 
Belgium  have  been  entertained  by  its  music.  It  is  used  in  more  public 
affairs  than  any  other  dozen  organs.  It  has  a  corps  of  five  organists  who 
use  it  daily." 

I  have  been  told  by  many  who  have  had  experience  in  the  mis- 
sion field  that  without  exception  they  find  friends  in  those  who 
have  heard  the  great  organ.  And  not  tens  of  thousands,  but  hun- 
dreds of  thousands,  during  his  twenty-five  years  of  service,  have 
heard  this  instrument.  To  me  it  is  a  source  of  keen  regret  that  I 
was  too  far  away  to  attend  his  funeral.  How  appropriate  that  the 
services  were  held  in  this  great,  this  historic  building,  every  fiber  of 
which  has  vibrated  with  his  divine  music.  How  appropriate  that 
the  great  organ  should  be  draped  and  should,  during  his  funeral, 
be  silent. 

While  he  has  held  no  official  position,  yet  for  hours  before  the 
funeral  hundreds  came  to  take  a  last  look  at  that  friendly,  intelli- 
gent face  from  which  had  come  so  many  smiles  and  looks  of  kind- 
ness. When  the  hour  for  the  funeral  arrived,  this  great  building 
was  packed.  The  multitude  came  to  do  honor  to  a  genius,  a  gentle- 
man, a  friend. 

This  man's  father  and  mother  were  pioneers.  He  was  purely 
a  product  of  the  "Mormon"  Church.  A  commanding  personality,  a 
courtly  manner,  a  disposition  affable  and  charming,  his  life  was 
full  of  love,  laughter,  and  sunshine.  The  tenderness  of  his  heart 
and  the  refinement  of  his  mind,  were  expressed  in  his  music.  His 
eyes  were  always  full  of  smiles. 

May  heaven  be  good  to  the  wife  of  my  lifelong  friend.  May 
kind  Providence  remember  his  excellent  son  and  his  charming 
daughters  to  enable  them  always  to  remember  the  virtues  of  their 
talented  father.  May  kind  Providence  comfort  the  heart  of  his 
widowed  and  pioneer  mother,  bringing  comfort  to  her  who  bore 
him,  and  who,  mother-like,  was  devoted  to  him,  with  the  fondness 
of  unceasing  love,  I  humbly  pray,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen, 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


125 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

I  desire  very  much  to  say  a  few  words  upon  this  important 
occasion  about  the  great  responsibilities  which  rest  upon  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  There  is  no  more  im- 
portant responsibility  than  that  to  which  the  President  of  the 
Church  has  referred,  in  issuing  the  call  during  this  conference  for 
men  who  have  already  rendered  missionary  service,  who  are  at 
present  qualified  to  preach  the  gospel,  to  re-enter  that  field  and 
assist  the  youth  of  Israel  who  are  at  present  laboring  as  mission- 
aries of  the  Church,  particularly  in  the  United  States  missions,  to 
discharge  this  great  responsibility  which  is  resting  upon  the  Church. 

MISSIONARY  WORK  A  FIRST  GREAT  RESPONSIBILITY  OF  THE  CHURCH 

I  rejoice  in  my  heart  that  this  call  has  come,  for  it  has  been  a 
dream  of  mine  about  which  I  have  talked  a  good  many  times.  Only 
six  months  ago  I  recall  it  was  the  theme  of  some  remarks  which  I 
made  in  the  conference.  I  do  hope  that  the  call  shall  be  answered 
by  the  able  men  of  IsraeL  that  we  shall  recognize  that  God  has 
placed  the  responsibility  upon  this  Church  to  give  to  all  flesh  the 
news  that  he  has  spoken.  I  hope  that  this  responsibility  will  be  ac- 
cepted by  all  classes.  I  have  said,  upon  this  point,  that  I  believe  the 
doctors  and  the  lawyers  might  do  well  to  consider  responding  to 
such  an  invitation,  and  that  they  owe  something  to  the  men  of  their 
own  profession  whom  they  can  reach  better  than  any  one  else,  to 
carry  the  message  of  the  gospel  to  them.  Likewise  men  in  the 
business  professions  whom  we  have  excused  from  long-term  mis- 
sions, they  may,  with  profit  to  themselves  and  without  injury  to 
their  business,  accept  of  this  invitation  to  render  service  for  a 
shorter  period  of  time. 

ADVANTAGES  IN  MISSIONARY  WORK 

I  believe  that  every  man  who  responds  to  this  call  will  prolong 
his  life.  There  is  nothing  so  invigorating  to  the  health,  so  uplift- 
ing to  the  spirits  of  men,  as  to  preach  the  gospel.  I  believe  that  the 
money  spent  will  be  well  invested  in  the  good  health  that  shall 
come,  in  the  prolongation  of  life. 

While  it  has  been  a  tremendous  sacrifice  on  the  part  of  parents 
particularly  to  send  their  sons  and  daughters  into  the  missionary 
field,  a  constant  and  continual  drain  upon  their  resources,  a  drain 
that  probably  no  other  community  on  earth  could  stand,  and  we 
could  not  stand  it  were  it  not  for  the  blessings  of  God;  neverthe- 
less, I  have  never  met  in  my  associations,  with  hundreds  of  parents 
of  missionaries,  a  single  one  who  has  ever  regretted  the  money  he 
spent  in  sending  missionaries  into  the  field  to  declare  the  gospel 
message.  So  far  as  the  personal  advantages  to  the  missionary  are 
concerned,  I  am  sure  that  the  money  never  could  have  been  spent 
to  equal  advantage.  If  a  young  man  had  been  sent  to  a  college,  or 
given  a  training  in  any  other  field,  it  would  not  have  brought  him 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


so  large  personal  advantage  as  his  missionary  experience.  It  has 
developed  those  finer  qualities  of  the  mind,  faith,  confidence  in  one's 
self,  as  well  as  confidence  in  God,  and  has  given  him  the  opportunity 
to  study  human  nature  and  to  be  able  to  succeed  in  winning  those 
who  are  opposed  to  his  views,  and  that  in  itself  is  a  valuable  asset  to 
any  man,  when  his  missionary  experience  is  concluded,  I  care  not 
what  his  business  may  be. 

In  addition  to  that,  the  valuable  testimony,  about  which  we 
have  heard,  can  be  obtained  in  the  missionary  field  as  nowhere  else. 
It  is  worth  more  to  any  young  man  in  Israel  to  have  in  his  very 
heart  and  soul  a  burning  conviction,  a  knowledge  that  God  lives, 
and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  than  to  be  possessed  of  much  wealth 
and  to  be  dfcvoid  of  this  blessing.  There  are  few,  indeed  I  know  of 
none,  who  have  gone  into  the  missionary  field  to  discharge  this 
obligation  and  have  done  their  duty  who  have  not  been  endowed 
with  an  abiding  testimony  that  God  does  live,  and  that  Jesus  Christ 
is  his  Son.  This  in  itself  is  worth  everything.  Indeed  we  have 
proved,  in  our  missionary  experiences  in  this  Church,  that  it  is  more 
blessed  to  give  than  to  receive ;  for  if  we  have  given  to  the  world — ■ 
our  time  and  service — that  has  been  a  blessing  to  mankind,  and  it 
has  returned  with  added  blessings  upon  our  heads.  We  have  been 
enriched  as  communities  by  the  breadth  and  depth  of  understand- 
ing, and  have  become  cosmopolitan  in  our  conception  of  things  be- 
cause of  the  varied  experiences  that  these  returning  missionaries 
bring  from  all  lands ;  for,  the  best  of  all  lands  is  brought  back  to 
us.  In  addition  to  that,  we  are  discharging  the  great  obligation  that 
God  has  placed  upon  us,  to  bring  to  his  sons  and  daughters  the 
light  and  the  knowledge  of  the  eternal  truth,  preparing  them  to 
come  back  into  his  presence  and  to  rejoice  in  the  restoration  of  the 
everlasting  gospel. 

NONE  WflO  ARE  PREPARED  TO  GO  ARE  EXEMPT 

In  responding  to  this  call,  I  trust  that  bishops  of  wards  will  not 
excuse  themselves.  Perchance,  one  may  go.  Perchance,  it  may  be 
possible  that  one  of  the  stake  presidency  may  respond,  and  indeed 
no  one  should  feel  himself  exempt.  It  will  be  profitable  to  respond, 
to  any  who  shall  accept  of  this  invitation.  We  need  you,  we  need 
your  strength  in  this  cause.  In  addition  to  that,  let  those  who  are 
in  need  of  assistance  be  helped  if  necessary  by  the  cooperation  of 
their  brethren,  because  the  responsibility  is  upon  each  ward  to  fur- 
nish at  least  one  of  these  brethren,  the  kind  the  President  has  been 
calling  for,  and  by  a  cooperative  effort  on  the  part  of  every  one  in 
the  ward  it  may  be  easily  possible  to  help  one  who  could  not  go 
without  assistance  from  his  associates.  I  want  to  invite  you  also, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  prepare  yourselves  for  a  continuation 
of  this  work,  for  while  the  call  now  is  but  for  a  short  period,  in  the 
ensuing  year,  I  hope  and  I  trust,  that  the  number  we  are  asking 
for  shall  continue  to  go  into  the  missionary  field.    Men  of  the  class 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


127 


we  are  asking  for  are  the  kind  of  men  we  need  to  strengthen  young 
and  inexperienced  men  in  the  mission  field,  and  to  carry  the  gospel 
to  the  people  whom  it  is  difficult  for  these  young  and  inexperi- 
enced men  to  reach. 

THE  RESPONSIBILITY  OF  CARING  FOR  OUR  MEMBERSHIP 

Now  the  other  point,  the  other  responsibility  that  I  have  in  my 
own  mind,  and  about  which  I  feel  great  concern,  is  the  responsi- 
bility of  taking  care  of  those  who  come  into  the  Church,  all  those 
who  are  born  heirs  of  the  gospel,  children  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
keeping  the  flock  within  the  fold,  training  them,  preparing  them 
for  the  future  work  which  God  has  for  this  Church,  and  to  prepare 
themselves  for  his  coming.  I  feel  great  concern  that  we  shall  be 
successful  in  saving  our  own.  I  observe  in  our  own  Church  records 
that  we  have  had,  so  far  as  births  are  concerned,  nearly  four  times 
as  many  children  born  to  Latter-day  Saint  parents  as  all  our 
baptisms  number  in  the  world,  and  that  has  been  true  for  each  of 
the  last  several  years.  While  our  baptisms  in  the  world  have  been 
good — indeed  they  are  a  little  better  each  year — we  have  nothing  to 
complain  about,  so  far  as  they  are  concerned,  but  the  future 
growth  and  strength  of  this  Church  depends  upon  our  ability  to 
save  our  own.  I  feel  that  there  is  no  greater  responsibility  placed 
upon  us  than  to  feed  the  sheep  and  to  feed  the  lambs,  and  to  keep 
them  within  the  fold. 

NEED  OF  WATCHMEN  ON  THE  TOWERS  OF  ZION 

I  would  like  to  say  to  the  presidents  of  stakes,  the  bishops  of 
wards  and  leaders  in  Zion,  that  there  is  need  of  the  watchmen  who 
are  upon  the  towers  of  Zion,  to  exercise  themselves  vigilantly  just 
now,  a  little  more  so  perhaps  than  we  have  found  it  necessary 
heretofore.  Yet  it  has  always  been  necessary  to  be  alert  and  active 
if  we  would  preserve  the  flock.  But  by  reason  of  conditions  that 
obtain  in  the  world,  just  at  this  time,  I  feel  that  we  need  to  guard 
our  flock  against  the  inroads  of  the  wolves  in  sheep's  clothing. 
For,  so  far  as  the  world  is  concerned,  it  is  very  evident  to  me  that 
we  have  reached  what  I  call  the  age  of  self-indulgence.  The  experi- 
ences through  which  we  are  passing  reveal  the  fact  that  there  is  a 
spirit  of  indulgence  in  the  world  that  leads  men  to  the  violation  of 
the  law  in  order  to  gratify  appetite.  The  statistics  of  the  United 
States  Government  reveals  the  fact  that  so  far  as  the  consump- 
tion of  tobacco  is  concerned  it  has  increased  four  hundred  per  cent, 
in  the  last  ten  years.  It  has  doubled  in  the  last  two  years,  and  the 
most  sorrowful  item  they  call  attention  to  is  the  fact  that  perfumed 
cigarettes,  manufactured  to  be  sold  to  women,  has  shown  the 
greatest  increase  in  consumption,  and  that  they  cannot  be  manu- 
factured in  quantities  sufficient. to  satisfy  the  demand.  The  cost 
of  tobacco  alone,  in  the  United  States  last  year,  was  a  little  over 
three  billions  of  dollars.    The  increase  in  the  consumption  _of  tea 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  coffee  has  also  gone  forward,  to  say  nothing  of  the  violation 
of  the  Eighteenth  amendment  to  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States,  prohibiting  the  manufacture  of  and  indulgence  in  alcoholic 
beverages.  Men  know  that  these  things  are  contrary  to  our  physi- 
cal health,  contrary  to  the  peace  and  the  safety  of  our  nation ;  but 
the  appetite  is  stronger  than  the  will.  Passion  and  desire  rule  in 
many  quarters  today.  Men  in  positions  of  trust  and  confidence, 
in  ever-increasing  numbers  have  shown  a  lack  of  fidelity  and 
trustworthiness  until  surety  rates,  guaranteeing  the  honesty  and 
integrity  of  men  in  business,  have  been  doubled  in  the  last  two 
years.  I  could  go  on  calling  vour  attention  to  these  things  indi- 
cating what  I  say,  that  the  spirit  of  the  age  is  the  spirit  of  self- 
indulgence,  and  it  finds  its  final  expression  in  self-degredation, 
in  the  violation  of  the  law  of  God,  in  the  committing  of  sexual  sins 
that  are  destroying  the  life  of  men  and  women. 

LET  US  KEEP  CLEAN  AND  FREE  FROM  THE  SINS  OF  THE  WORLD 

I  am  not  an  alarmist,  nor  do  I  see  anything,  particularly  just 
now,  that  would  indicate  that  there  is  a  serious  condition  in  the 
Church  of  Christ,  but  I  see  outside  the  storms  that  are  gathering. 
I  see  the  influences  that  are  at  work.  The  Lord  said  that  he 
gathered  us  into  these  stakes  of  Zion  to  preserve  us  against  the 
storms  when  they  should  break  forth  without  measure  upon  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth.  These  storms  are  reaching  us.  Their  in- 
fluence will  come.  Individuals  will  come  with  their  pernicious  doc- 
trines that  will  destroy,  if  listened  to,  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  am  anxious,  therefore,  that  the  young  men  and  young 
women  of  Israel  shall  keep  clean  and  undefiled  from  the  sins  of  the 
world.  The  greatest  evil  that  is  threatening  us,  yes,  and  threaten- 
ing the  world,  is  the  evil  of  immorality.  So  I  am  pleading  with 
you  that  if  you  want  to  keep  these  boys  and  girls  able  to  receive 
this  witness  and  testimony  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  we  must 
keep  them  clean,  morally  clean,  and  we  must  adhere  to  our  stand- 
ards. For  we  have  been  taught — I  received  it  from  my  mother's 
knee,  you  have  heard  it,  you  men  of  Israel,  from  your  childhood — ■ 
that  next  to  the  crime  of  murder  itself  is  the  crime  of  sexual  im- 
purity, and  that  rather  than  to  be  found  guilty  of  these  things  we 
would  better  be  found  dead.  Let  us  therefore  adhere  to  this,  our 
high  standard,  and  we  shall  survive  the  storms,  no  matter  how 
severe  they  become.  We  can  save  ourselves  and  save  these  young 
men  and  young  women  of  Israel. 

PROSPERITY  SHOULD  RESULT  IN  SALVATION  TO  US  AND  OUR  CHILDREN 

I  rejoice  in  the  bright  prospects  that  are  before  us,  so  far  as 
crops  are  concerned.  That  is  good,  that  is  splendid.  It  is  of  im- 
portance as  a  means,  however,  to  a  glorious  end,  and  the  glorious 
end  is  the  salvation  of  ourselves  and  the  salvation  of  our  sons  and 
daughters. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


129 


I  wish  to  read  a  few  words  on  this  point  from  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  given  to  the  early  elders  of  this  Church,  and  equally  applica- 
ble to  us  in  this  present  time.  I  am  reading  from  the  16th  Section 
of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  a  revelation  given  to  Peter 
Whitmer,  Jr.,  in  the  month  of  June,  1829 : 

"Hearken,  my  servant  Peter,  and  listen  to  the  words  of  Jesus  Christ, 
your  Lord  and  your  Redeemer. 

"For  behold,  I  speak  unto  you  with  sharpness  and  with  power,  for  mine 
arm  is  over  all  the  earth. 

"And  I  will  tell  you  that  which  no  man  knoweth  save  me  and  thee 
alone — 

"For  many  times  you  have  desired  of  me  to  know  that  which  would  be 
of  the  most  worth-  unto  you. 

"Behold,  blessed  are  you  for  this  thing,  and  for  speaking  my  words 
which  I  have  given  unto  you  according  to  my  commandments. 

"And  now,  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  the  thing  which  will  be  of  the 
most  worth  unto  you  will  be  to  declare  repentance  unto  this  people,  that 
you  may  bring  souls  unto  me,  that  you  may  rest  with  them  in  the  kingdom 
of  my  Father." 

There  is  nothing  in  all  this  world  that  can  be  compared  to  the 
value  of  a  human  soul,  redeemed,  sanctified,  and  made  worthy  to 
receive  the  blessings  of  God  our  Father.  There  is  no  investment 
which  you  men  can  put  your  money  or  your  time  into  that  will  pay 
you  so  well  in  time  or  in  "  eternity  as  to  invest  in  a  human  soul, 
whether  that  shall  be  in  the  missionary  field  or  at  home,  in  the  care 
of  those  precious  ones  who  have  come  under  our  supervision.  We 
have  already  heard  scripture  in  this  conference,  from  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  wherein  he  declares  that  the  worth  of  souls  is  great 
in  his  sight,  and  if  we  should  labor  all  our  days  and  as  the  result 
of  that  labor  bring,  save  it  be  but  one  of  those  precious  souls,  how 
great  will  be  our  joy!  I  know  that  I  need  not  convert  you  to  the 
fact  that  this  is  a  true  doctrine,  but  we  constantly  need  to  be  ap- 
pealed to,  to  be  willing  to  give  ourselves  and  our  means  in  the  ac- 
complishment' of  this,  the  greatest  work  there  is  in  all  the  world. 

CONCERNING  GOING  ON  THE  MISSION  TO  SOUTH  AMERICA 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  respond  to  the  call  that  has  come 
from  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  to  leave  home  and  loved  ones 
and  my  native  land,  to  go  with  Brother  Wells  and  Brother  Pratt 
into  the  great  South  American  country.  I  do  not  ^o  with  any  feel- 
ing of  elation  that  it  is  going  to  be  a  great  pleasure  Trip ;  I  go  in 
fear  and  in  trembling,  trusting  in  the  Lord,  knowing  that  we  shall 
be  utterly  helpless,  save  the  Lord  shall  be  with  us.  I  have  felt  in 
my  soul  that  the  time  would  come — and  I  thank  God  that  it  has 
come — that  that  great  country  may  hear  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  I  believe  that  it,  too,  is  Zion,  as  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  has  told  us.  I  believe  that  it  is  altogether  fitting  and 
proper  that  more  than  half  of  the  missionaries  of  the  Church  should 
be  in  the  United  States  missions ;  for  it  is  unto  this  land,  the  land 
of  Zion,  that  the  spirit  of  gathering  has  called  Israel  from  all  over 


\ 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  earth.  They  have  been  coming  here,  and  here  are  the  majority 
of  our  converts.  As  I  recall  it,  three  years  ago  one  million  two 
hundred  fifty  thousand  people  were  permitted  to  come  into  the 
United  States,  and  the  quota  was  full.  Yet,  at  that  time,  twenty- 
five  million  people  applied  to  come.  Since  then,  however,  the  gov- 
ernment has  seen  fit  to  further  reduce  the  privileges  of  immigra- 
tion to  this  country,  until  today  only  three  per  cent,  of  the  foreign 
population  of  any  nation  in  this  country,  in  1900,  may  now  come 
in,  which  means  that  not  more  than  about  two  hundred  thousand 
can  enter  this  land  in  any  single  year  from  all  nations  of  the  earth. 
Where  are  they  going?  According  to  the  evidence  that  I  am  gather- 
ing since  this  call  came,  millions  of  them  are  going  to  South  Amer- 
ica. I  have  hoped  and  prayed  that  we  shall  find  that  there,  too,  the 
spirit  of  gathering  has  called  men  and  women  from  all  nations  of 
the  earth.  They  are  there  in  large  numbers  from  all  nations,  and 
if  God  is  willing  to  open  their  hearts  and  bless  us  with  the  ability 
to  reach  them  and  carry  the  message  of  the  gospel,  it  is  our  desire 
that  they  who  are  from  the  Gentile  nations  may  also,  with  others, 
have  this  privielge  of  hearing  the  message  of  the  gospel  and  come 
into  the  fold  of  Christ.  I  know  not  what  purpose  God  may  have 
in  their  being  in  that  great  southland,  the  other  part  of  Zion.  These 
matters  will  all  unfold  in  the  Lord's  own  due  time.  And  then  it 
may  only  be  the  beginning  of  that  other  glorious  work  that  we  are 
anticipating  shall  come,  for  the  Book  of  Mormon  came  to  us,  not 
for  our  sakes,  but  especially  for  the  sons  and  daughters  of  father 
Lehi,  who  have  dwindled  in  unbelief.  May  the  day  speedily  come 
that  this  revelation  shall  also  go  forth  in  that  land  to  the  millions 
of  sons  and  daughters  who  have  the  blood  of  father  Lehi  in  their 
veins,  that  the  day  of  their  redemption  may  come. 

TESTIMONY 

May  God  bless  the  Saints  at  home,  that  they  may  preserve  in 
the  fold  safely  these  precious  ones  that  have  been  given  to  us,  that 
they  may  be  ready  in  preparation  for  the  further  extension  of  the 
Lord's  work,  and  may  his  work  go  forth,  that  his  kingdom  may 
come,  that  all  men  may  hear  and  the  hones;,  obedient  souls  may 
have  a  witness  and  a  testimony  that  he  lives.  I  know  with  my 
brethren  that  God  lives,  as  surely  as  I  know  that  I  live.  My  testi- 
mony is  not  based  upon  books.  It  has  come  to  me  by  the  revela- 
tions of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  to  my  spirit,  through  the  manifesta- 
tions of  the  Holy  Ghost  upon  my  soul.  In  the  thirteen  years  I 
have  already  spent  in  the  missionary  field  there  have  come  to  me 
innumerable  witnesses  and  testimonies  of  the  truthfulness  of  this 
great  work.  I  know  that  Christ  lives  as  well  as  I  shall  know  it  when 
the  veil  of  his  tabernacle  shall  be  parted,  and  he  shall  be  revealed, 
when  I  may  have  the  privilege  of  hearing  his  voice  and  looking 
upon  his  face,  or  be  invited  as  he  did  invite  the  Nephites  to  come 
up  and  touch  him,  to  see  and  handle  his  hands,  to  feel  the  prints 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


131 


of  the  nails.  If  that  shall  some  day  be  my  privelege,  as  I  hope  it 
shall,  I  shall  not  know  any  better  then  than  I  know  today,  that  he 
lives,  that  he  visited  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  he  did  restore 
his  gospel,  and  that  what  the  world  knows  as  "Mormonism"  is  in- 
deed the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

Knowing  this,  there  is  no  sacrifice  too  great.  To  leave  father, 
mother,  houses  and  lands,  the  world  and  all  things  for  it,  is  not 
too  big  a  price  to  pay  for  the  thing  that  is  the  most  precious  and 
the  most  glorious. 

THE  DESTINY  OF  ZION  CERTAIN 

God  help  us  that  we  shall  keep  in  our  hearts,  burning  sacredly, 
the  desire  to  fulfil  these  great  obligations  that  rest  upon  us,  that 
Zion  shall  arise  and  shine,  for  her  destiny  is  as  certain  as  the  rising 
of  the  sun.  If  only  we  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  every 
promise  shall  be  verified,  and  fulfilled  upon  our  heads.  May  God 
help  us  to  do  it  and  speed  the  day  of  the  redemption  of  all  his  sons 
and  daughters,  and  bring  the  ungodly  and  the  sinners  to  repent- 
ance ;  for  they  shall  come  to  repentance,  if  not  through  the  preach- 
ing of  the  gospel,  through  the  judgments  of  Almighty  God,  for  he 
is  speaking,  and  he  shall  speak  to  the  nations  until  they  shall  hear. 
God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  his  peace  be  with  Zion 
and  all  her  interests,  at  home  and  abroad,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen'. 

ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding -Bishop  of  the  Church 

In  occupying  this  important  place,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
greatly  need  your  faith  and  sympathy  that  I  may  be  able  to  say 
something  that  shall  be  of  profit.  To  that  end  I  desire  to  enjoy  the 
light  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

I  would  like  to  read  a  few  words  to  which  President  Grant 
referred  in  his  opening  remarks  of  the  conference.  The  Prophet 
Micah,  in  speaking  to  the  people  of  Israel,  and  calling  their  atten- 
tion to  the  things  which  the  Lord  desired  of  them,  wherein  he 
stated  that  more  than  their  sacrifices  and  offerings  of  rams  and  oil, 
the  Lord  desired  their  hearts,  he  made  the  following  statement : 

"He  hath  shewed  thee,  O  man,  what  is  good ;  and  what  doth 
the  Lord  require  of  thee,  but  to  do  justly,  and  to  love  mercy,  and 
to  walk  humbh'-  with  thy  God?" 

I  would  like  to  read  also  a  portion  of  that  which  President 
Grant  referred  to — that  brief  but  important  revelation  given  to 
Joseph  Smith,  the  father  of  the  Prophet: 

"For  behold  the  field  is  white  already  to  harvest;  and  lo,  he 
that  thrusteth  in  his  sickle  with  his  might,  the  same  layeth  up  in 
store  that  he  pe'risheth  not,  but  bringeth  salvation  to  his  soul; 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"And  faith,  hope,  charity  and  love,  with  an  eye  single  to  the 
glory  of  God,  qualify  him  for  the  work. 

"Remember  faith,  virtue,  knowledge,  temperance,  patience, 
brotherly  kindness,  godliness,  charity,  humility,  diligence." 

In  the  important  responsibility  that  has  come  to  me  I  am  sen- 
sible of  the  consideration  of  my  brethren.  I  cannot  express  to  you 
the  appreciation  I  feel  of  their  confidence  and  the  confidence  which 
I  feel  the  Lord  has  in  me.  My  only  desire  is  that  I  may  be  worthy 
of  that  confidence  and  the  confidence  of  all  of  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  of  all  the  members  of  this  Church.  In  accepting 
the  place  that  has  been  assigned  to  me  I  realize  the  high  standard 
which  has  been  set  by  Bishop  Nibley  and  his  counsellors.  I  am  glad 
to  have  the  privilege  of  working  with  his  associates,  Bishops  David 
A.  Smith  and  John  Wells,  and  all  of  the  members  of  the  department 
to  which  I  have  been  assigned.  I  realize  the  great  work  that  is 
there  to  do.  I  appreciate  what  has  been  done,  the  care  and  atten- 
tion and  the  accuracy  of  the  work,  temporal  largely  as  it  is,  that  is 
assigned  to  that  important  department  of  the  Church. 

I  desire  with  all  my  heart  to  do  my  part,  to  give  the  very  best 
that  is  in  me  to  advance  this  work,  and  if  it  were  possible  to  even 
increase  the  care  and  the  efficiency  in  looking  after  every  interest 
that  shall  be  intrusted  to  us  in  that  department,  to  magnify  the 
callings  that  come  to  us,  and  in  every  way  to  promote  sympathy, 
kindliness,  love  and  good  will  among  all  the  members  and  officers 
of  the  Church.  That  is  my  only  desire.  I  have  never  sought  any 
office  in  this  Church.  I  have  always  desired,  since  the  years  of 
my  maturity,  to  endeavor  to  help  in  the  building  up  of  the  work  of 
the  Lord.  Since  I  have  been  able  to  appreciate  the  responsibilities 
of  life  and  of  the  Church  I  have  endeavored  to  labor  and  to  live 
constantly  with  this  expression  in  view  contained  in  this  revelation 
given  by  the  Lord,  through  the  Prophet  Joseph,  to  his  father — to 
labor  "with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God." 

We  were  reminded  yesterday  afternoon  by  President  Ivins  and 
Brother  George  Albert  Smith  of  the  fact  that  we  are  created  in  the 
image  of  God,  and  that  when  the  Lord  created  man  he  gave  him 
dominion  over  all  things  of  the  earth.  As  stated  by  them,  man  is 
the  only  creature  who  has  within  himself  the  power  of  reason 
and  of  initiative.  Men  cannot  lift  themselves  off  the  ground  by 
their  own  boot-straps,  but  they  can  lift  themselves  out  of  their 
condition,  mentally,  spiritually  and  physically. 

There  is  an  opportunity  for  every  man  and  every  woman  upon 
the  face  of  the  earth  to  grow,  to  develop,  to  progress.  Every  one 
of  us  can  testify  of  that  because  all  of  us,  directly  or  through  our 
parents  or  grandparents,  have  accepted  the  gospel  out  in  the  world 
— have  accepted  that  clear  call  that  has  come  to  us  of  the  truth — 
and  have  had  the  power  within  ourselves,  through  the  blessing 
of  the  Lord,  to  grow  and  increase  in  knowledge  and  power  and 
understanding  and  faith  in  all  the  things  that  are  true  and  divine. 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


133 


We  have  been  enabled  to  grow  and  to  break  away  from  the  in- 
fluences and  the  traditions  of  life  which  have  interfered  with  the 
progress  of  man  through  the  centuries. 

The  Lord  has  given  man  dominion  over  all  things,  though  we 
may  some  of  us  think  that  we  have  not  very  much  dominion,  so  far 
as  the  things  of  this  earth  are  concerned.  Some  of  us  are  very 
grateful  when  we  have  the  opportunity  to  enjoy  and  to  call  our 
own  a  very  small  portion  of  God's  earth.  If  we  have  a  home  of  our 
own  some  of  us  think  we  are  very  fortunate,  and  some  even 
haven't  that  much.  We  may  think  that  we  are  far  removed  from 
that  condition,  when  man  had  dominion  over  the  earth  and  over 
all  things  pertaining  thereunto  and  when  he  could  look  to  the  ut- 
most bounds  of  the  everlasting  hills  and  call  that  dominion  his 
own.  But  every  one  of  us  has  a  certain  portion  of  the  things  of 
life  and  of  this  earth  which  the  Lord  has  given  to  us. 

We  may  not  consider,  or  man  may  not  always  consider,  that  it 
comes  from  the  Lord.  They  may  forget  that  "the  earth  is  the 
Lord's  and  the  fullness  thereof,"  but  if  we  realize  our  relation,  if  we 
sense  our  position,  we  cannot  deny  the  fact  that  all  that  we  have 
and  all  that  we  are  comes  from  him.  If  we  appreciate  our  re- 
sponsibilities we  must  recognize  the  fact  that  we  are  only  stewards 
here  upon  the  earth,  that  we  cannot  take  from  this  earth  anything 
of  a  material  nature;  that  all  we  can  take  from  here  is  that  which 
we  have  stored  up  in  our  minds  which  has  helped  to  develop  us, 
the  qualities  which  we  have  acquired  and  the  service  that  we  have 
rendered.  For  the  material  things  will  remain.  They  will  be  of 
no  beneifit  to  us  hereafter.  Unless  wisely  used  they  may  prove  a 
curse,  not  only  to  us  but  to  our  descendants. 

What  is  our  responsibility?  What  is  the  responsibility  of  men 
generally?  All  men  should  recognize  their  stewardship  in  all  that 
they  possess,  whether  it  be  little  or  great,  whether  it  be  of  a  small 
nature  or  whether  their  wealth  amounts  to  millions.  Some  men 
in  the  earth  today  are  recognizing  that  fact.  Some  of  those  who 
have  acquired  great  fortunes  through  business  transactions  and  in 
other  ways,  have  recognized,  in  a  measure  at  least,  their  account- 
ability and  their  stewardship.  They  have  given  and  are  giving 
large  amounts  of  their  fortunes  for  the  welfare  of  humankind,  for 
research  and  investigation  which  shall  inure  to  the  benefit  of  the 
human  family,  and  for  the  promotion  of  greater  and  better  con- 
ditions of  health  and  of  peace  and  of  general  welfare.  The  obliga- 
tion is  upon  everv  one  of  us,  that  we  should  ourselves  have  con- 
stantly in  mind  this  important  injunction,  that  we  labor  "with  an 
eye  single  to  the  glory  of  the  Lord."  The  laborer,  the  farmer,  the 
miner,  the  clerk,  the  professional  and  business  people — all  can  put 
their  very  best  thought  and  effort  each  day  into  the  work  that  is 
before  them,  with  the  incentive  to  better  qualify  themselves  and 
to  achieve  all  in  their  power  for  the  promotion  of  God's  work 
and  the  welfare  of  his  children.    All  that  we  do,  all  that  we  have 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  all  that  we  are  is  the  Lord's — not  only  our  means  but  our 
time — as  has  been  expressed  here  today  by  Apostle  Ballard  and 
has  been  expressed  previously  by  others  of  the  brethren.  We  should 
not  be  content  with  one  mission,  but  if  we  have  the  means  and  if 
we  labor  "with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  the  God,"  diligently 
and  faithfully  and  wisely,  the  Lord  will  bless  us  and  will  increase 
our  store  and  our  means,  and  enable  us  to  give- more  time,  greater 
talent,  greater  energy,  to  the  advancement  of  his  purpose.  We 
shall  then  not  be  content  with  preaching  the  gospel  on  one  mission 
only,  abroad,  but  we  shall  be'laboring  continually  here  at  home,  as 
well  as  abroad,  and  by  our  testimony  and  our  teachings,  as  well  as 
by  our  lives  and  examples,  evidence  that  we  realize  our  responsi- 
bility, that  we  appreciate  the  opportunity  that  has  come  to  us,  and 
that  we  are  striving  to  exemplify  these  things  in  our  lives. 

Let  us,  every  one,  endeavor  to  impress  upon  our  children,  boys 
and  girls,  the  thought  that  all  that  we  have  and  all  that  they  have 
belongs  to  the  Lord  and  that  they  should  not  claim  these  things 
selfishly.  If  we  have  that  spirit  in  mind  constantly  and  if  we  strive 
to  impress  upon  those  who  come  after  us,  that  they  should  use  their 
means  and  their  time,  with  the  purpose  in  view  to  be  of  the  greatest 
benefit  and  blessing  to  the  work  of  God,  and  to  the  promotion  of 
the  welfare  of  mankind,  then  shall  we  have  joy  and  satisfaction. 
We  shall  increase  in  these  qualities  which  shall  make  us  most 
nearly  the  men  and  women  that  God  would  have  us  be. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  that  we  may  grow  in  the 
knowledge  of  these  things !  May  we  constantly  have  this  in  mind, 
that  we  shall  be  willing  to  serve  the  Lord  and  be  prepared  to  give 
to  him  not  only  one-tenth  of  our  means,  not  only  one-tenth  of  our 
time,  not  only  one-tenth  of  all  that  we  possess,  but  that  if  it  should 
be  the  Lord's  will  we  shall  be  prepared  to  consecrate  our  properties, 
in  the  assurance  that  we  should  receive  our  stewardship  and  be 
dealt  with  in  justice  and  integrity  and  in  propriety  for  our  welfare 
and  progress  and  development  and  for  the  welfare  of  all  human 
kind,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  hymn,  "High  on  the  mountain  top,"  was  sung  by  the  choir 
and  congregation. 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph  K.  Nicholes, 
President  of  the  St.  George  stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Tuesday  morning,  October  6,  1925,  at 
10  a.  m. 


THIRD  DAY 


MORNING  SESSION 

The  Tabernacle  was  comfortably  filled  as  President  Heber  J. 
Grant  opened  the  meeting  on  Tuesday  morning,  October  6,  1925,  at 
10  o'clock. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Praise  to  the  man  who  com- 
muned with  Jehovah." 

Elder  Heber  J.  Meeks,  president  of  the  Kanab  stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

A  sacred  baritone  solo  entitled,  "There  is  no  death,"  was  sung  by 
J.  H.  Wood.  i  ' 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

My  Brethren  and  Sisters:  I  ask  that  while  I  stand  before  you 
this  forenoon  I  may  be  guided  by  God's  holy  Spirit,  so  that  the 
words  I  speak  may  be  of  value  to  those  who  have  come  here  this 
day  in  hope  of  spiritual  food.  As  I  look  back  over  my  life,  it  seems 
to  me  that  in  halls  of  learning  or  among  the  affairs  of  men  I  have 
had  ample  Self-confidence  and  sometimes  just  a  little  self-assur- 
ance; but  when  engaged  in  the  work  of  the  Lord,  in  this  great 
latter-day  program,  I  always  feel  my  utter  and  complete  depend- 
ence upon  the  Lord  and  his  Spirit,  if  I  would  do  my  work  well. 
In  the  high  calling  which  has  come  to  me  in  the  Church — and  I  do 
not  understand  why  that  calling  has  come  to  me — I  feel  that  I  must 
be  as  clay  in  the  hands  of  the  potter,  must  be  as  an  instrument  in 
God's  hands,  by  which  divine  purposes  may  be  accomplished.  So, 
I  ask  that  I  may  have  your  assistance  in  the  words  that  I  may 
speak  to  you  this  morning. 

TESTIMONY  AND  GRATITUDE 

It  seems  that  the  theme  of  this  conference  has  been  that  this 
Church  is  a  latter-day  witness  to  the  reality  and  personality  of  our 
Father  in  heaven,  of  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  of  the  divine  validity 
of  the  mission  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I  desire  to  bear  witness 
with  my  brethren  who  have  spoken  that  I  know  that  God  lives, 
that  Jesus  Christ  was  his  Son,  that  we  are  engaged  iiTworking  out 
an  eternal  plan  for  the  salvation  of  mankind ;  and  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  called  in  his  boyhood,  by  God,  to  initiate  the  work  of  the 
restoration  of  the  gospel  in  our  day.  I  am  grateful  beyond,  my 
power  of  expression  for  this  testimony,  and  I  bear  it  gladly  to  all 
who  care  to  listen. 

THRILLED  BY  THE  CALL  FOR  MISSIONARIES 

I  have  been  fed  and  instructed  by  all  that  has  been  said  by  my 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


brethren  during  these  two  days ;  but  I  must  say  that  the  one  thing 
that  pierced  my  heart  and  thrilled  me  during  this  conference  was 
the  call  of  our  President,  the  living  Prophet  of  God,  for  an  army 
of  mature  men,  one  thousand  strong,  to  go  into  the  mission  field  to 
preach  the  everlasting  gospel  to  those  who  do  not  yet  understand 
it.  I  felt  as  if  I  heard  the  voice  of  the  prophets  of  old,  who  asked  if 
there  were  faith  in  Israel.  I  believe  that  there  is  faith  in  Israel, 
I  believe  that  the  call  that  was  made  will  be  answered,  that  the 
men  who  go  out  will  be  blessed  abundantly,  that  the  wives  and  the 
children  who  remain  at  home,  in  sacrifice  that  their  husbands  and 
sons  may  go  out,  will  likewise  be  blessed  and  comforted,  and  that 
Zion  and  the  world  at  large  will  be  blessed  by  this  call  and  the 
obedience  that  we  shall  give  to  it.  When  the  call  came,  it  seemed 
to  me  that  I  could  see  the  army  going  out — an  army  to  battle  for 
righteousness,  to  battle  against  wickedness,  an  army  which  has  no 
weapon  save  that  of  truth,  an  army  devoting  itself  simply  to  the 
cause  of  truth.  I  am  certain,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  were 
all  touched  in  our  hearts  when  that  call  came  from  the  lips  of  our 
President. 

THE  WORLD  NEEDS  THE  LIGHT  OF  THE  CHURCH 

My  own  experience  tells  me  that  the  world  has  need  of  such  an 
army,  waging  the  battle  for  righteousness  in  the  name  of  the  truth 
of  Almighty  God.  It  has  been  my  duty,  with  the  consent  and 
knowledge  of  the  First  Presidency,  to  spend  a  part  of  this  year  in 
traveling  over  the  Western  states  as  an  agent  of  a  department  of 
the  government,  which  has  given  me  intimate  association  with 
many  men  not  of  our  faith.  I  have  come  out  of  this  association  and 
this  labor  with  the  conviction  that  the  world  now,  as  perhaps  never 
before,  needs  the  light  that  issues  from  this  Church,  and  the  truth 
for  which  we  stand.  We  are  indeed  ready,  as  a  world  of  God's  chil- 
dren, for  the  army  for  which  call  has  been  made  at  this  conference. 

HIGH   QUALITIES  OF  LEADERSHIP  CAUSED  BY  PERFECT  DOCTRINE 

Not  long  ago  in  one  of  the  states  to  the  north  of  us,  in  the  com- 
pany of  a  local  delegation,  I  called  upon  one  of  our  branch  presi- 
dents. The  little  branch  numbered  about  a  hundred  people,  had 
been  organized  only  a  few  months  ago,  and  was  presided  over  by  a 
young  man  who  has  been  brought  up  in  one  of  the  stakes  of  Zion. 
After  we  had  had  a  chat  with  this  brother,  as  we  left,  the  leader 
of  the  local  delegation,  who  served  as  our  guide,  said  to  me :  "We 
are  keeping  our  eyes  on  this  young  man.  He  has  been  here  less 
than  two  years,  but  he  has  in  him  the  qualities  of  leadership.  We 
believe  that  if  we  are  not  careful  that  'Mormon'  boy  will  sodn  be 
the  leader  of  our  community."  Then  he  added :  "Will  you  tell  me 
why  it  is  that  so  many  of  your  people  appear  to  possess  such  high 
qualities  of  leadership,  that  we  must  recognize  them,  even  in  so 
young  a  man  as  the  one  we  have  just  left?  Is  it  because  of  your 
doctrine,  or  is  it  because  of  your  wonderful  leaders,  and  their  wise 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  W1DTS0E 


137 


leadership,  irrespective  of  doctrine?"  I  answered  this  man  as  best 
1  could.  My  thought  went  back  to  a  statement  made  by  a  modern 
prophet,  President  Brigham  Young,  when  a  similar  question  was 
asked  him  many  years  ago ;  and  when  he  paraphrased  the  words 
of  one  of  the  ancient  apostles : 

"In  conversation  not  long  since  with  a  visitor  from  the  Eastern 
States,  said  he,  'You  as  a  people  consider  that  you  are  perfect.'  'Oh, 
no,'  said  I,  'not  by  any  means.  Let  me  define  to  you.  The  doc- 
trine that  we  have  embraced  is  perfect;  but  when  we  come  to  the 
people,  we  have  as  many  imperfections  as  you  can  ask  for.  We  are 
not  perfect,  but  the  gospel  that  we  preach  is  calculated  to  perfect 
the  people,  so  that  they  can  obtain  a  glorious  resurrection  and  enter 
into  the  presence  of  the  Father  and  the  Son.'  " 

A  SYSTEM  OF  TRUTH  LEADING  TO  PERFECTION 

Here  is  a  definition  given  by  one  of  the  great  prophets  of  our 
Church.  We  do  possess  a  perfect  doctrine ;  and  what  a  gift  it  is ! 
I  wonder  if  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  fully  appreciative  of  the  fact 
that  they  are  in  possession  of  a  system  of  truth  which,  if  applied 
and  used,  embraced  and  wholly  consumed  by  man,  may  lead  man 
into  perfection.  As  I  read  human  history,  ever  since  the  beginning 
of  time,  the  great  thinkers  and  leaders  of  the  world  have  sought  to 
formulate  systems  of  government,  doctrine  or  thought,  to  lead 
people  into  a  perfect  state  of  living.  Thus,  we  have  the  great  men 
of  the  ages :  A  Confucius,  arises  in  China,  in  search  of  a  perfect 
guide  to  human  conduct  and  achievement.  We  have  a  Buddha  in 
India ;  a  Mohammed  in  Arabia,  a  Plato  in  Greece,  and  many  others 
seeking  for  this  one  thing  that  we  declare  to  all  the  world  that  we 
possess.  The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  a  system  perfect  in  itself, 
which,  if  used  by  human  beings,  may  lead  every  soul  into  a  per- 
fected state  of  life,  both  on  this  earth  and  in  the  life  to  come.  Per- 
fection is  the  ideal  of  Latter-day  Saints — nothing  short  of  it.  A 
tremendous  ideal  it  is ;  smiled  at  by  those  who  do  not  understand ; 
nevertheless  our  ideal. 

We  live  by  our  ideals,  we  die  by  our  ideals.  Nations  grow 
large,  or  they  dwindle,  according  to  their  ideals.  A  humble  peo- 
ple, years  ago,  found  the  truth  of  God, — the  only  God,  the  living 
God,  the  personal  God, — and  Israel  ever  since  its  foundation  has 
been  a  teacher  of  nations  because  of  that  high  ideal.  In  our  own 
day,  within  the  memory  of  children  in  this  congregation,  a  nation 
arose  which  formed  as  its  ideal  a  godless  superman,  a  man  who 
would  be  like  unto  God,  but  without  God;  and  as  a  result  of  that 
ideal  came  the  bloodiest  battles  and  the  most  destructive  warfare 
recorded  in  history. 

CAN  PERFECTION  BE  ATTAINED? 

Our  ideal  is  perfection ;  but,  no  doubt,  the  question  arises,  in 
the  minds  of  every  one  of  us :  "Is  it  possible  for  man  to  win  per- 
fection?   Do  we  have  reason  to  believe  that  there  lies  in  the  gospel 


138 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  Jesus  Christ  the  power  to  lead  us  into  a  perfected  state  of  exist- 
ence?" As  I  have  attended  these  conferences,  these  many  years, 
I  have  often  heard  statistics  read  concerning  the  birth  rate  and 
death  rate  and  other  vital  statistics,  which  point  out  that  those  who 
live  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  are  indeed  being  perfected.  I  had 
the  privilege  a  short  time  ago  to  read  the  manuscript  of  a  book 
written  by  Dr.  Franklin  S.  Harris,  the  President  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University,  in  which  he  has  taken  the  statistical  facts  con- 
cerning the  Latter-day  Saints,  recognized  by  the  world  at  large,  and 
used  them,  according  to  the  methods  accepted  by  the  world  at  large, 
to  test  out  the  fruits  of  "Mormonism."  From  chapter  to  chapter  it 
is  shown  that  the  fruits  of  "Mormonism,"  when  "Mormonism"  is 
properly  lived,  are  a  condition  of  increasing  perfection,  or  a  per- 
fected state  of  living. 

AN  AID  TO  PHYSICAL  PERFECTION 

Let  me  call  your  attention  to  one  principle  which  has  in  it  the 
power  of  producing  physical  perfection.  More  than  ninety  years 
ago  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  inspired  to  write  for  us  the 
Word  of  Wisdom.  We  know  by  our  own  experience  that  physical 
perfection  may  be  achieved  in  part— that  we  may  at  least  be  on  the 
road  to  physical  perfection — by  obedience  to  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 
It  is  interesting  to  note  that,  ever  since  that  Word  was  given,  men 
of  science  have  discovered,  and  are  discovering,  evidence  upon  evi- 
dence confirming  the  soundness  of  the  statements  in  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  Alcohol  is  no  longer  regarded  as  a  good  thing  for  the 
human  body ;  and  I  am  glad  to  know  that  our  Nation  is  now  a  dry 
Nation,  that  we  by  acts  of  our  Congress  and  Legislatures  have  de- 
clared that  alcohol  is  not  a  good  thing  for  man.  Brother  Ballard 
stated  yesterday  that  the  use  of  tobacco  is  increasing.  Neverthe- 
less, the  findings  of  men  of  science,  in  their  laboratories  and  studies, 
are  to  the  effect  that  tobacco  is  not  good  for  the  human  body.  Like- 
wise it  has  been  shown  that  tea  and  coffee  and  all  other  stimulants 
are  harmful  and  retard  physical  development. 

SMOKING  A  CAUSE  OF  MENTAL  DEFICIENCY 

The  last  bulletin  of  Antioch  College,  one  of  the  colleges  in  the 
East,  has  just  reached  me.  This  bulletin  is  devoted  entirely  to  a 
study  of  the  effect  of  tobacco  on  the  students  in  that  institution. 
I  shall  not  take  the  time  to  read  this  to  you,  but  only  to  quote  the 
summary,  on  the  first  page,  of  the  man  who  wrote  it.  Further  on 
in  the  body  of  the  bulletin  he  tells  how  very  carefully  the  work 
had  been  done.    He  says  : 

"A  careful  study  of  smoking  among  men  students  at  Antioch  does  not 
disclose  any  permanent  effects  of  smoking  upon  blood  pressure,  lung 
capacity,  or  pulse  rate;  but  a  definite  relationship  is  established  between 
smoking  and  low  scholarship.  Among  men  students,  31.8  per  cent  of 
nonsmokers  fail  to  maintain  required  grades,  while  62.3  per  cent  of  heavy 
smokers  similarly  fail.    Inhalers  fail  most  often.    Before  this  study  began 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


139 


the  more   susceptible  smokers  had  been  eliminated,  since  many  more 
smokers  than  non-smokers  had  failed  and  been  dropped  from  college." 
And  he  concludes  with  this  statement: 

"With  these  figures  before  us,  it  is  hard  to  avoid  the  conclusion  that 
smoking  is  actually  a  cause  of  mental  inefficiency." 

A  Latter-day  Saint  cannot  read  a  statement  like  this  without 
remembering  the  promise  which"  is  contained  in  Section  89,  that 
those  who  obey  this  Word  of  Wisdom  shall  find  "wisdom  and  great 
treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden  treasures  of  knowledge" — it 
seems  to  be  a  literal  confirmation.  So,  in  every  field  of  Church 
activity,  or  teachings,  whether  with  respect  to  the  physical,  mental 
or  spiritual  aspects  of  life,  we  find  that  within  the  teachings  of  the 
Church  lie  the  germs  and  powers  of  achieving  perfection  on  the 
part  of  human  beings. 

THE  GOSPEL  A  POWER  THROUGH  WHICH  PERFECTION  IS  ACHIEVED 

Brother  Stephen  L.  Richards  spoke  to  us  yesterday  about  the 
testimony  that  may  be  won  by  a  correct  approach  and  search  for 
testimony.  I  thought,  then,  of  the  scientific  equivalent  of  a  testi- 
mony. In  the  laboratory  the  chemist  may  take  an  element  and, 
by  heat  and  pressure,  change  it  completely  in  its  physical  prop- 
erties. It  is  possible  to  take  black  amorphous  charcoal  and,  under 
the  influence  of  heat  and  pressure,  to  change  it  into  transparent, 
crystalline  diamonds.  If  lifeless,  inert  matter  may  be  changed,  a 
greater  transformation  may  be  expected  in  the  souls  of  men,  when, 
under  God's  influence,  by  the  power  that  comes  from  the  use  of 
the  truths  that  God  has  revealed  to  his  children,  men  obey  the 
gospel.  Such  a  change,  coming  into  human  lives,  is  greater  than 
that  from  the  black  charcoal  to  the  luminous  white  diamond.  The 
lives  of  Latter-day  Saints,  by  the  tens  of  thousands,  attest  that  such 
a  transformation  is  possible ;  that  there  lies  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  the  power  for  man  toN  achieve  perfection,  even  in  this  life, 
physically,  mentally,  spiritually  and  in  every  way,  if  only  he  will 
give  himself  to  the  ideal  of  perfection. 

The  question  uppermost  in  my  mind  is  whether  we  as  a  people 
are  using"  to  the  full  the  principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ ; 
whether  indeed  we  are  perfecting  ourselves  as  we  should.  _  We 
dream  of  a  great  day,  a  day  to  come  when  Lord  and  Master  Jesus 
Christ  shall  come  to  reign  and  rule  upon  the  earth,  when  he  shall 
be  the  King,  and  all  shall  bow  to  him.  That  is  our  great  dream. 
We  are  here  to  hasten  the  coming  of  that  day ;  to  prepare  the  way 
for  the  coming  of  the  Lord.  The  question  with  respect  to  myself 
and  my  fellows  is  always  whether  we  are  so  living,  so  conducting 
ourselves,  so  approaching  perfection,  so  strong  in  courage,  so 
fearless  that  that  work  is  being  done  in  a  manner  to  hasten  .the 
great  day.  The  Lord  uses  us,  men  and  women  of  flesh  and  blood, 
made  in  his  image,  possessing  his  eternal  doctrines,  to  work  out 
his  purposes.    We  must  qualify  ourselves  so  that  the  Lord  may 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


work  his  purposes  rapidly  and  well  through  us,  men  and  women. 
What  a  tremendous  responsibility  we  are  under.  We  need  to  go 
out  fearlessly  and  we  can  go  out  with  courage,  for  we  have  the 
tremendous  fund  of  knowledge  and  the  irresistible  power  that 
come  from  a  knowledge  and  testimony  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
We  must  not  hesitate  to  do  that  which  lies  before  us,  and  which 
the  Lord  requires  of  us. 

a  newsboy's  proud  answer 

I  like  to  recall  my  experience  with  a  little  newsbody.  My  wife 
and  I  stood  at  the  west  door  of  the  Hotel  Utah,  in  the  company 
of  a  most  distinguished  American  and  his  wife.  We  were  talking 
about  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  taught  by  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
Somebody  said  something  about  the  Priesthood,  and  mention  was 
made  of  the  fact  that  in  this  Church  all  men  may  make  themselves 
worthy  to  hold  the  Priesthood.  Someone  remarked — perhaps  my 
wife — that  even  the  boys  after  a  certain  age  held  the  Priesthood. 
Just  then  a  little  lad  came  along  the  sidewalk  calling  out  the  after- 
noon paper — "Deseret  News !  Deseret  News !"  On  the  spur  of  the 
moment  I  said:  "Perhaps  that  little  boy  holds  the  Priesthood."  I 
called  him  to  me.  He  thought  I  was  a  tourist,  about  to  buy  a  paper. 
I  said:  "Are  you  a  'Mormon,'  my  boy?" 

He  straightened  up,  put  his  heels  together,  looked  me  in  the 
eye,  and  said:    "I  am." 

I  said:  "Do  you  hold  the  Priesthood?" 

He  said :  "Yes,  sir,  I  hold  the  Priesthood." 

I  said:  "What  office  in  the  Priesthood  do  you  hold?" 

The  little  boy  ga,ve  me  the  salute  of  the  Boy  Scout  and  replied : 
"I  am  a  Deacon,  sir." 

There  was  the  fearlessness  of  the  child,  the  pride  of  his  pos- 
session, though  understanding  only  as  a  child,  dimly,  the  meaning, 
the  spirit  and  the  vastness  of  this  latter-day  cause.  We  who  have 
grown  to  maturity,  must  possess,  in  a  larger  degree,  the  same  fear- 
lessness to  conquer  ourselves  and  to  make  ourselves  worthy  of  the 
call  which  has  come  to  us,  to  go  out  to  teach  the  nations  that  which 
we  have  received.  God  bless  us  and  be  with  us  and  make  us  the 
mighty  Church  which  he  designs  we  shall  be,  I  ask,  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 

Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church 

I  desire  very  much  to  enjoy  that  same  sweet  spirit  which  has 
attended  the  remarks  of  my  brethren.  It  is  a  very  important  privi- 
lege to  associate  with  these  men  whom  the  Lord  has  called  in  this 
important  day  and  time  to  proclaim  and  defend  his  work.  In 
humility  I  wish  to  express  my  appreciation  for  the  privilege  that 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH  141 

has  come  to  me  as  one  of  the  youths  of  Zion  to  take  part  in  this 
important  work,  in  the  manner  in  which  I  have  been  called. 

I  have  made  some  very  remarkable  observations,  in  my  brief 
ministry  as  a  worker  in  the  Church.  I  have  observed  that  we  have 
some  of  the  best  people  in  all  the  world  from  the  young  men  and 
women  to  the  aged  fathers  and  mothers,  and  grandfathers 
and  grandmothers  in  the  Church.  I  have  observed  also  that 
we  are  living  in  just  a  little  different  time  from  that  of  our  great- 
grandfathers, and  perhaps  the  obstacles  which  were  before  them 
were  not  the  same  kind  that  are  before  us  as  young  people  today. 
While  our  grandfathers  and  grandmothers  had  their  responsibilities, 
their  trials  and  their  struggles,  I  am  sure  we,  as  young  people, 
today,  have  ours.  But  in  my  anxiety  to  discover  the  greatest  sup- 
port, the  greatest  help  to  battle  with  these  trials,  responsibilities  and 
obstacles,  I  know  of  no  other  that  compares  in  any  way  with  the 
privileges  and  possibilities  that  come  to  us  as  young  people  to  work 
in  the  Church  of  Christ.  There  are  constantly  being  taught  to  us 
the  principles  of  defense,  the  principles  and  powers  that  will  aid  and 
assist  us  to  more  fully  enjoy  our  privileges  and  blessings  in  the 
great  time  and  day  in  which  we  are  living.  It  is  true  that  we  are 
living  very  near  to  the  world.  There  was  a  time,  perhaps,  more 
than  there  is  today  when  people  could  observe  that  we  as  so-called 
"Mormons"  could  be  recognized  by  our  attitude  and  our  very  ap- 
pearance, but  today  we  are  so  near  to  the  world  that  sometimes  it 
is  almost  impossible  to  tell  by  our  physical  appearance  whether  we 
are  of  the  world  or  not. 

As  one  of  the  youth  of  Zion  called  to  stand  upon  her  watch 
towers,  I  desire  to  express  my  faith  and  my  belief  in  the  fact  that 
the  Lord  has  not  forgotten  us,  that  his  preserving  and  protecting 
care  will  continue  to  be  with  us,  if  we  will  only  hearken  unto  the 
teachings  and  counsels  which  we  have  received.  If  we  as  young 
people  will  only  observe  the  teachings  of  our  parents  in  righteous- 
ness, to  keep  ourselves  worthy  of  the  great  blessings  which  the 
Lord,  for  generations,  has  prepared  to  be  administered  unto  the 
children  of  Israel  in  these  the  last  days,  we  need  not  be  disap- 
pointed. 

I  have  observed  this  very  important  lesson.  You  have  just 
heard  Elder  Widtsoe,  one  of  our  great  students  in  the  Church,  de- 
clare that  under  certain  conditions  the  crude  charcoal  could  be  made 
into  the  lustrous  diamond.  Under  natural  conditions  oil  and  water 
will  not  mix.  To  make  them  mix  they  have  to  be  treated  by  heat 
and  other  agents,  but  just  as  soon  as  you  come  back  to  nat- 
ural and  normal  conditions  again,  the  oil  separates  from 
the  water  and  the  water  separates  from  the  oil.  While  this  is  a 
crude  example,  I  wish  to  bring  it  to  you  for  this  purpose.  It  is  the 
best  example  I  think  of  at  the  present  time  to  explain  the  thought 
I  have  in  view,  that  it  is  impossible  under  normal  conditions  for  us, 
as  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 


142 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


whether  old  or  young,  to  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the  Church,  as  they 
are  designated  to  us  through  the  teachings  of  the  Church,  and  live 
in  the  world,  as  the  people  of  the  world  live.  If  you  or  I  desire  to 
enjoy  those  precious  blessings  which  the  Lord,  through  his  holy 
prophets,  has  been  declaring  from  the  early  ages  up  to  the  present 
time,  we  must  obey  the  principles,  and  the  laws,  which  govern  those 
blessings.  We  may  go  through  the  form  of  receiving 
them  but  unless  our  hearts  are  in  tune  with  them,  through 
obedience  to  the  laws  that  govern  them,  we  will  not  receive  the 
blessings.  Just  as  soon  as  we  come  to  our  normal  condition  in  our 
conduct  in  life,  we  will  be  just  like  the  oil  and  water  when  they  are 
in  their  normal  condition.  They  do  not  naturally  combine.  So 
let  me  urge  upon  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  careful  in 
your  conduct,  in  your  ways  of  living.  Do  not  deceive  yourselves 
that  you  can  break  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  known  among  us  as  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  as  the  "law  of  health"  and  the  word  of  God  to  us 
as  a  people.  You  cannot  break  those  commandments  and  those 
laws  and  expect  to  get  the  blessings  that  are  enjoyed  by  those  who 
do  not  break  the  laws.  The  Lord  is  kind  and  merciful,  but  like  any 
other  parent,  he  cannot  give  us  the  blessings  that  he  would  like  to 
give  us  unless  we  prepare  to  be  worthy  of  them. 

Through  observations  which  have  come  to  me,  day  by  day  and 
year  by  year,  I  am  impressed  more  fully  with  that  humble  testi- 
mony that  this  is  God's  work  and  that  he  is  ever  blessing  those  who 
are  laboring  under  his  tuition  and  spirit  to  carry  out  his  work,  that 
he  has  been  very  mindful  of  his  people.  He  has  blessed  us  in  our 
homes,  in  our  fields  and  flocks  and  herds.  I  don't  know  when  I 
have  ever  seen  a  more  blessed  year  than  this  has  been  to  the  people 
of  this  intermountain  country,  and  I  do  pray  that  the  Lord  will  in- 
spire, within  the  hearts  of  the  people,  a  true  devotion  to  the  Giver 
of  these  blessings,  that  he  will  not  be  forgotten. 

Already  men  are  responding  to  the  great  call  that  har, 
been  made  by  the  President  of  the  Church.  Men  in  business, 
men  in  the  professions,  are  already  beginning  to  arrange  their  af- 
fairs, and  I  am  sure  there  will  be  a  response  of  willingness  and 
gratitude,  in  the  midst  of  the  Church,  to  go  forth  and  express  in 
work,  and  make  a  great  defense  of  this  work,  that  men  of  the  world 
may  discover  that  there  is  an  important  period  in  their  lives  in 
which  the  Lord  has  been  mindful  of  his  children,  and  that  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  will  be  poured  out  in  mighty  power  upon  those  who 
express  themselves  in  willingness  to  turn  unto  God's  work,  and 
take  part  in  it,  to  proclaim  it,  and  defend  it,  both  at  home  and 
abroad. 

I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  be  upon  the  members  of 
the  Church  wherever  they  live,  that  they  may  express  that  appre- 
ciation of  their  blessings  in  right  living,  that  they  remember  the 
Lord  in  gratitude  and  in  thanksgiving  and  in  proper  conduct;  and 
not  be  deceived  by  their  carelessness  and  their  indifference.  Nephi,. 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


143 


the  great  character  of  old,  taught  his  people  in  his  time  that  those 
who  thought  they  could  do  a  little  here  and  a  little  there,  telling 
a  lie  here  and  a  lie  there,  or  steal  a  little  today  and  steal  a  little  to- 
morrow, that  they  could  forget  the  Lord  today  and  remember  him 
tomorrow,  procrastinate  and  put  off,  that  they  would  be  deceived  in 
the  end,  that  the  adversary  who  was  lying  in  wait  to  destroy  the 
faith  of  the  people  then,  that  adversary  still  lives  and  is  still  in  wait 
to  take  advantage  of  the  follies  of  the  people,  and  to  place  barriers 
in  their  pathway.  But  I  want  to  promise  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  though  he  is  alive  and  in  waiting  for  the  weaknesses 
and  follies  of  the  people,  that  if  you  will  observe  the  teachings  of 
your  faithful  parents,  that  if  you  will  observe  the  teachings  of  the 
elders  in  Israel,  if  you  will  observe  the  laws  of  nature  and  the  words 
of  wisdom,  as  they  have  been  taught  unto  you  from  the  beginning 
of  this  Church,  since  they  were  revealed  to  us,  that  the  God  of 
heaven  will  give  you  power  every  day  of  your  lives  to  defend  your- 
selves, that  you  may  keep  yourselves  worthy  of  the  blessings  that 
the  Lord  has  in  store  for  you,  and  that  you  will  have  power  to 
triumph  over  these  barriers,  to  live  and  enjoy  this  happy,  wonder- 
ful testimony  that  God  lives,  that  he  is  the  giver  of  life,  that  he  for- 
gives sins,  that  he  gives  you  power  to  "overcome  weaknesses,  that 
he  will  spare  your  lives  in  usefulness,  that  he  will  bless  the  labor 
of  your  hands  temporally  and  spiritually,  that  he  will  give  you 
understanding  through  the  quickening  of  your  minds  and  your  de- 
sires and  your  ability  to  see  and  to  understand.  I  have  faith  that 
the  God  of  heaven  will  hear  your  prayers  and  answer  you,  he  will 
remember  you  in  mercy  and  bless  you  beyond  your  power  to  appre- 
ciate your  blessings. 

I  desire  to  express  my  appreciation  for  the  blessings  that  the 
Lord  has  granted  unto  me,  for  my  faith  in  and  my  knowledge  of 
God  and  his  works,  for  I  know  that  God  lives,  that  he  does  hear 
and  answer  prayers,  that  he  does  forgive  sins  unto  those  who  hon- 
estly repent  of  their  sins,  forsake  them  and  live  in  obedience  to  the 
teachings  of  Christ. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  the  officers  and  members  of  the  Church 
throughout  its  entire  organization.  May  faith,  knowledge  and 
obedience  increase  among  the  people  to  the  glory  of  the  Lord  and 
his  work,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  duet  ,"Hail  to  the  brightness  of  Zion's  glad  morning,"  by  J.  R. 
Boshard  and  Mrs.  Hugh  Peterson,  was  sung. 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the 
Eastern  States  Mission 

I  thank  God  for  music,  and  for  these  gifted  sons  and  daugh- 
ters of  God  who  vocally  and  on  instruments  can  produce  it.    If  I 


144 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


could  only  preach  the  gospel  as  these  gifted  sons  and  daughters  of 
God  sing  it,  and  could  produce  in  the  souls  of  men  the  thrills  that 
come  to  me  when  the  truth  is  set  to  music,  and  artistically  ren- 
dered, I  would  ask  no  other  wealth  or  gift  from  God. 

When  the  sessions  of  our  conference  closed  on  Sunday  after- 
noon I  felt  that  if  nothing  more  should  be  added,  this  conference 
would  go  down  in  history  as  of  great  importance,  because  of  the 
treatment  that  had  been  already  given  upon  great  and  fundamental 
principles,  principles  of  highest  importance,  and  especially  at  this 
present  time,  and  in  view  of  the  waves  of  religious  thought  and 
irreligious  thought  that  are  sweeping  over  our  nation,  and  I  pre- 
sume over  other  nations  also.  But  when  I  stand  before  you  to 
make  my  own  very  humble  contribution  to  this  historic  confer- 
ence, it  is  with  a  great  deal  of  misgiving,  and  I  approach  that  brief 
and  humble  task  with  much  trepidation. 

On  my  way  home  from  the  Eastern  States  I  bought  some 
magazines  with  which  to  while  away  the  tedium  of  the  journey, 
and  in  one  of  them  I  was  attracted  by  this  title :  "It  Is  a  Wise 
Father  Who  Can  Answer  His  Own  Child." 

In  the  course  of  setting  forth  that  thought  the  father  who 
wrote  the  article  describes  how  a  son  about  eight  years  of  age  said 
to  him  one  day: 

"Daddy,  why  are  people?"  The  father  felt  that  "an  armful" 
had  been  handed  him,  according  to  his  own  confession.  So  he 
stalled  a  little  and  replied  to  his  son  that  that  was  a  question  that 
had  been  debated  some  five  or  ten  thousand  years,  and  it  was  riot 
quite  certain  yet  that  anybody  had  found  the  right  answer. 

"Well,"  said  the  boy,  "that's  funny."  Then,  after  a  silence  he 
said  again:  "Daddy,  don't  you  think  that  is  funny?"  The  father 
again  stalled  and  he  said :  "Well,  it  is  just  possible  that  if  we  knew 
everything,  life  would  not  be  so  very  interesting."  "Well,"  per- 
sisted the  boy,  "I  think  it  is  funny.  Now  I  have  to  go  out  and 
play  ball  the  rest  of  the  afternoon,  and  if  you  find  out  anything  I 
would  like  to  hear  it  at  dinner." 

Now  of  course  that  may  be  a  strange  way  of  presenting  a  great 
theme.  It  has  been  much  thought  of,  and  the  question  put  in  a 
more  worthy  form.  I  think  perhaps  the  poet-prophet  of  Israel,  King 
David,  stated  the  question  in  a  manner  much  more  worthy,  and  I 
call  your  attention  to  it.  It  is  very  familiar  to  you,  but  I  am  sure 
it  is  worthy  of  your  further  consideration : 

"Oh,  Lord,  how  excellent  is  thy  name  in  all  the  earth,  who  hast 
set  they  glory  above  the  heavens.  .  .  . 

"When  I  consider  thy  heavens,  the  work  of  thy  fingers,  the 
moon  and  the  stars,  which  thou  hast  ordained ; 

"What  is  man,  that  thou  art  mindful  of  him,  and  the  son  of 
man,  that  thou  visitest  him? 

"For  thou  hast  made  him  a  little  lower  than  the  angels,  and 
hast  crowned  him  with  glory  and  honor. 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


145 


"Thou  madest  him  to  have  dominion  over  the  works  of  thy 
hands ;  thou  hast  put  all  things  under  his  feet : 

"All  sheep  and  oxen,  yea,  and  the  beasts  of  the  field ; 

"The  fowl  of  the  air,  and  the  fish  of  the  sea,  and  whatsoever 
passeth  through  the  paths  of  the  seas. 

"O  Lord,  our  Lord,  how  excellent  is  thy  name  in  all  the  earth !" 

David  here  asks  some  very  important  questions.  He  does  not 
answer  them,  however,  either  in  this  psalm  nor  in  any  subsequent 
one.  St.  Paul  quotes  this  passage  from  David  in  his  letter  to  the 
Hebrews,  but  he  does  not  answer  the  questions.  This  passage 
brings  up  the  question  of  the  purposes  of  God  in  the  creation ;  but 
these  two  prophets,  David  and  Paul,  do  not  give  answers  to  the 
questions  they  ask.  None  of  the  philosophers  outside  of  those  cults 
that  have  been  recognized  as  founded  upon  revelation  from  God 
have  ever  answered  these  questions  in  any  authoritative  way.  It 
may  seem  like  a  bold  statement,  but  it  is  true,  nevertheless,  that 
there  is  no  answer  contained  in  the  Old  Testament  to  these  ques- 
tions. In  all  the  revelations  that^are  given  in  the  Old  Testament 
there  is  no  declaration  made  of  the  purposes  of  God  in  the  crea- 
tion. I  am  going  to  ask  you  to  go  one  step  further,  and  to  bear 
with  me  while  I  say  to  you  that  neither  in  the  New  Testament  is 
there  any  adequate  declaration  that  satisfies  the  inquiring  mind 
upon  that  subject.  The  only  scripture  that  comes  anywhere  nearly 
touching  it  is  found  in  the  following: 

"Thou  art  worthy,  O  Lord,  to  receive  glory  and  honor  and 
power:  for  thou  hast  created  all  things,  and  for  thy  pleasure  they 
are  and  were  created."  (Rev.  4:11.) 

That  is  the  nearest,  either  in  the  Old  or  in  the  New  Testa- 
ment, in  all  that  is  written — the  nearest  approach  to  an  explana- 
tion of  the  purpose  of  God  in  the  creation.  I  think  you  will  agree 
with  me  that  that  is  not  very  satisfactory  to  you  or  to  me  or  to 
mankind  in  general.  God  has  created  all  things  and  for  his  pleasure 
they  are  and  were  created.  All  right,  but  where  do  we  come  in? 
And  what  explanation  is  that  to  us  of  the  purposes  of  God  in  our 
creation? 

I  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  this  father  to  whom  the 
lad  propounded  his  question,  confessed  that  he  had  been  "handed 
an  armful."  He  did  not,  however,  regard  the  question  of  his  boy  as 
"silly."  "On  the  contrary,"  said  he,  "it  is  so  fundamental  that  it 
quite  bowls  one  over."   And  then  he  adds  this  thoughtful  remark : 

"Think  what  it  would  mean  to  the  human  race  to  have  an  an- 
swer that  every  one  of  us  would  accept.  That  I  should  say  would 
be  quite  a  neat  little  achievement;"  that  is  to  give  an  intelligent, 
acceptable,  and,  I  will  add,  an  authoritative  answer  to  the  question, 
"Why  are  people?"  Or  in  other  words,  what  is  the  purpose  of  God 
in  the  creation  of  man?  I  have  rather  boldly  said  that  you  can 
find  no  answer  in  the  Old  Testament  nor  in  the  New  Testament. 


146 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


But  now  I  will  ask  you  to  follow  me  for  a  few  moments  in  some 
suppositions  I  am  going  to  make. 

Suppose  that  in  some  catacomb  in  Egypt,  or  some  musty  tomb 
of  ancient  prophets,  a  fragment  of  parchment  could  be  found  that 
could  be  well  established  as  containing  the  very  words  of  the  great 
prophet  Moses;  and  suppose  that  fragment  should  contain  this 
statement : 

"THIS  IS  MY  WORK  AND  MY  GLORY,  SAITH  THE 
LORD,  TO  BRING  TO  PASS  THE  IMMORTALITY  AND 
ETERNAL  LIFE  OF  MAN." 

What  would  be  the  result  upon  the  thought  of  the  world  if  by 
human  means  such  a  fragment  of  parchment  could  be  brought  forth 
and  established  as  undoubtedly  the  utterance  of  the  great  prophet 
of  Israel,  Moses?  It  would  be  regarded,  I  warrant  you,  as  the  most 
valuable  utterance  that  had  occurred  among  men.  Aye,  its  value 
would  be  greater  in  giving  enlightenment  to  men  as  to  the  purposes 
of  God  in  the  creation  of  man,  than  all  else  that  is  written  in  the 
Bible ;  and  as  a  discovery  it  would  be  as  important  as  the  discovery 
of  the  original  tablets  on  which  were  written  the  Ten  Command- 
ments would  be. 

Again  I  will  ask  you  to  suppose  that  under  similar  circum- 
stances and  by  human  means,  another  literary  discovery  was  made 
that  should  read  as  follows — this  is  a  second  fragment  that  we  will 
suppose  has  been  discovered: 

"Man  is  spirit.  The  elements  are  eternal,  and  spirit  and  ele- 
ment, inseparably  connected,  receive  a  fulness  of  joy.  And  when 
separated,  man  cannot  receive  a  fulness  of  joy."    *    *  * 

"The  elements  are  the  tabernacle  of  God;  yea,  man  is  the 
tabernacle  of  God,  even  temples ;  and  whatsoever  temple  is  defiled, 
God  shall  destroy  that  temple. 

"The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence,  or,  in  other  words,  light  and 
truth." 

That  is  to  say,  the  light  by  which  truth  is  discerned.  I  would 
like  to  make  this  addition  to  the  foregoing  quotation.  It  does  not 
occur  in  this  same  passage,  but  I  would  like  to  make  this  addition 
to  this  scrap  of  supposed  parchment,  and  have  it  included  in  our 
whole  supposition : 

"The  body  and  the  spirit  is  the  soul  of  man,  and  the  resurrec- 
tion from  the  dead  is  the  redemption  of  the  soul." 

Now  let  us  add  these  statements  together  in  these  supposed 
parchment  fragments,  then  put  the  two  together — the  one  from 
Moses  and  this  passage  just  quoted.    We  would  then  have: 

"This  is  my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immor- 
tality and  eternal  life  of  man.  .  .  . 

"The  elements  are  eternal,  and  spirit  and  element,  inseparably 
connected,  receive  a  fullness  of  joy.  .  .  . 

"The  spirit  and  the  body  is  the  soul  of  man;  the  resurrection 
from  the  dead  is  the  redemption  of  the  soul." 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


147 


Now  I  begin  to  see  forming  a  marvelous,  a  splendid,  a  worthy 
conclusion,  out  of  these  discovered  fragments — the  purpose  of  God 
in  the  creation  of  man,  It  is  the  purpose  of  God  to  bring  to  pass 
the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man,  because  a  union  of  spirit 
and  element  is  essential  to  the  fulness  of  man's  joy.  That  immor- 
tality and  eternal  life  is  brought  to  pass  by  the  indissoluble  union 
of  the  body  and  the  spirit  of  man,  bv  which  he  becomes  soul — 
one,  united,  inseparable,  an  entity  indestructible,  and  put  in  the 
way  of  attainment  of  a  fulness  of  joy.   But  the  end  is  not  yet. 

I  will  ask  you  to  suppose  the  discovery  of  another  fragment  of 
manuscript  from  ruined  temple,  from  catacomb  or  from  musty 
tomb,  and  yet  its  antiquity  and  its  authenticity  as  going  back  to  an 
inspired  man  of  God — a  prophet — may  not  be  questioned.  We  will 
suppose  this  third  discovered,  sacred  parchment  should  say  this — 
I  will  ask  you  to  mark  the  beauty  of  it : 

"All  things  have  been  done  in  the  wisdom  of  Him  who  knoweth 
all  things." 

Now  that  has  in  it  the  music  of  inspired  poetry,  to  me.  It  also 
has  a  depth  of  philosophy  that  is  quite  wonderful. 

"All  things  have  been  done  in  the  wisdom  of  Him  who  know- 
eth all  things." 

Perfect  wisdom  can  come  only  from  perfect  knowledge,  and 
here  you  have  the  two  combined, — perfect  wisdom  rising  from  per- 
fect knowledge ;  all  things  ordained  for  the  earth  and  the  inhabitants 
thereof  have  been  wrought  in  the  highest  wisdom,  according  to  the 
declaration  of  this  third  discovered  fragment  we  are  supposing. 
And  then  the  rest  of  the  fragment  must  be  read  to  get  the  full  im- 
port of  its  meaning.  I  will  read  the  two  beautiful  lines  I  have  in 
mind  together: 

"All  things  have  been  done  in  the  wisdom  of  Him  who  know- 
eth all  things : 

"Adam  fell  that  man  might  be.  Men  are  that  they  might  have 
joy." 

And  thus  these  fragments  of  truth — we  will  say  for  the  mo- 
ment from  ancient  parchment  just  discovered — have  enlightened 
the  world  on  this  great  theme  as  no  other  utterances  have  ever  en- 
lightened the  children  of  men.  If  they  could  only  be  discovered 
in  the  way  we  have  supposed,  it  seems  to  me  that  there  would  rise 
up  from  all  the  hosts  of  men  peans  of  praise  to  Almighty  God,  for 
this  great  light  shed  abroad  upon  the  minds  of  men  with  reference 
to  the  purposes  of  God  in  the  creation ;  and  especially  as  to  the  crea- 
tion of  man. 

Now  we  will  drop  the  suppositions  assumed.  These  three  great 
utterances  constitute  the  message  of  "Mormonism"  to  the  world 
upon  this  great  theme.  The  first  comes  from  a  fragment  of  the 
teachings  of  the  prophet  Moses,  found  not  in  musty  tomb  or  ruined 
temple,  but  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  before  this 
Church  of  ours  was  six  months  old.    The  second  comes  from  a 


148 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


revelation  from  God  to  him,  in  the  year  1833.  The  third  contribu- 
tion comes  from  our  Book  of  Mormon,  and  is  the  contribution  of 
sleeping  nations  once  inhabiting  the  American  continents,  a  mes- 
sage through  their  prophet  leader  to  the  modern  world,  and  a  con- 
tribution to  the  modern  world  for  its  enlightenment.  How  splen- 
did all  that  is ! 

We  are  not  quite  through,  however,  with  this  magazine  lad's 
questions  yet ;  nor  with  David's  sublime  questions.  We  have 
learned  a  little  about  the  purpose  of  God  in-  the  creation,  but  the 
other  part  of  the  question  still  remains :  What  is  man  that  God  is 
mindful  of  him?  Or  the  son  of  man,  that  he  visits  him,  and  gives 
him  dominion  over  his  works? 

Only  just  a  moment  can  be  devoted  to  the  great  theme.  I 
quote  the  words  of  the  Christ  in  that  last  prayer  of  his  in  Geth- 
semane : 

"Father,  the  hour  is  come;-  glorify  thy  Son,  that  thy  Son  also 
may  glorify  thee." 

I  quote  that  scripture  because  without  any  equivocation  it  de- 
clares by  the  lips  of  the  Christ  himself  the  fact  that  he  is  the  Son  of 
God ;  and  now  he  says  : 

"Father,  glorify  thou  me  with  thine  own  self  with  the  glory 
which  I  had  with  thee  before  the  world  was."  Here  the  Christ  pro- 
claims both  the  pre-existence  of  his  own  spirit  and  the  glory  he  had 
with  his  Father  before  he  came  to  the  earth.  These  doctrines  used  to 
puzzle  those  among  whom  he  moved  when  in  his  earth  life.  In  con- 
troversy with  the  Pharisees  on  one  occasion,  when  they  were  boast- 
ing about  Abraham  being  their  father,  he  said : 

"Your  father  Abraham  rejoiced  to  see  my  day:  and  he  saw  it 
and  was  glad."  "Oh,"  said  they,  "you  are  not  yet  fifty  years  old, 
and  hast  thou  seen  Abraham?"  And  he  answered,  "Before  Abra- 
ham was,  I  am." 

Reference  was  made  by  President  Ivins  on  Sunday  to  that 
most  marvelous  of  all  revelations  on  the  pre-existence  of  the  spirit 
of  the  Christ  given  to  Moriancumer,  the  brother  of  Jared.  So  com- 
plete was  that  vision,  so  certain  it  was,  that  the  Prophets  as  he  be- 
held the  finger  of  the  Lord  stretched  forth,  exclaimed :  "I  knew  not 
that  the  Lord  had  flesh  and  blood."  This  view  was  corrected  by 
the  Lord,  who  said : 

"This  is  the  body  of  my  spirit,  and  as  I  appear  unto  you  in  the 
spirit,  so  will  I  appear  unto  my  people  in  the  flesh."  In  other 
words,  it  was  the  spirit  form  of  the  Christ  which  Moriancumer  be- 
held. It  is  the  spirit  that  gives  form  to  the  whole  man.  The  spirit 
out  of  the  elements  in  this  earth-life  clothes  itself  with  this  beauti- 
ful garment,  the  human  body,  which  in  the  providences  of  God 
shall  be  made  immortal.  This  through  the  processes,  first  of  birth 
into  mortality — earth  life ;  and  after  that,  birth  into  immortality 
through  the  resurrection.  Through  these  processes  shall  come 
forth  those  personages  that  shall  be  eternal — a  union  of  spirit  and 


ELDER  BRIG  HAM  H.  ROBERTS 


149 


element  that  shall  be  indissoluble.  The  mortal  state  is  but  a  pre- 
lude to  that  immortal  life,  and  to  that  "eternal  life"  which  shall  in- 
clude with  it  an  eternal  union  with  God,  a  union  that  shall  lead  to 
the  eternal  progress  and  development  of  the  divine  intelligences 
that  inhabit  these  bodies. 

Now,  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God.  All  right,  what  is  our 
relationship  to  him?  He  met  Mary  early  in  the  morning  .of  the 
resurrection,  and  when  she  would  approach  him  and  place  her  hands 
upon  him  in  loving  affection,  he  said : 

"Touch  me  not,  for  I  am  not  yet  ascended  to  my  Father." 
It  seems  he  was  reserving  contact  with  his  resurrected,  immortal 
body,  for  the  first  embrace  of  the  Father.  "Touch  me  not,  but  go 
and  tell  my  brethren,"  referring  to  the  apostles, — "tell  my  brethren, 
that  I  ascend  unto  my  Father,  and  to  your  Father,  to  my  God,  and 
to  your  God." 

I  know  of  no  other  scripture  that  so  beautifully  sets  forth  the 
relationship  of  brotherhood  of  man  to  the  Christ  than  this  passage ; 
unless  perhaps  it  might  be  this  one : 

"For  both  he  that  sanctifieth,  and  they  who  are  sanctified  are 
all  of  one,  for  which  cause  he  is  not  ashamed  to  call  them  breth- 
ren." Showing  that  our  origin  is  the  same  as  the  origin  of  the 
Christ.    Now  I  understand  Paul  clearly  when  he  says : 

"We  have  had  fathers  of  our  flesh  which  corrected  us,  and  we 
gave  them  reverence:  shall  we  not  much  rather  be  in  subjection 
unto  the  Father  of  spirits,  and  live?" 

Now  ask  the  question,  David;  "What  is  man  that  thou  art 
mindful  of  him?  Or  the  son  of  man,  that  thou  visitest  him?"  The 
answer  is :  Sons  of  God,  brothers  to  the  Christ,  sparks  struck  from 
God's  own  eternal  blaze — parts  of  him — parts  of  God !  Hence,  God 
is  mindful  of  man ;  hence  he  visits  them,  hence  he  places  all  things 
under  their  feet,  and  gives  them  the  high  mission  to  multiply  and 
replenish  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  and  to  have  dominion  over  it. 

How  blessed  this  doctrine!  How  high  and  lifted  up  it  is  above 
the  notion  that  man  has  his  origin  in  the  slime  of  the  ocean,  and 
the  protoplasm  which  rises  from  it,  until  it  differentiates  into  the 
various  forms  of  life,  and  man  comes  from  some  one  or  other  of  the 
many  lines  that  lead  out  from  this  common  source  of  life ! 

I  have  been  thrilled  in  this  conference  by  reference  to  that 
vision  that  the  Lord  gave  to  Abraham  of  the  intelligences  that  were 
organized  before  the  world  itself  was  formed.  In  the  great  host 
before  the  throne  of  God  there  were  many  noble  and  great  ones — 
noble  and  great  ones !  And  God  looked  upon  these  spirits,  "and  they 
were  good ;"  and  he  said  to  Abraham :  "These  I  will  make  my 
rulers.  Thou,  Abraham,  art  one  of  them."  I  pray  you  note  the 
characterization  of  these  prominent  spirits — "noble,"  "great," 
"good" !  These  are  characteristics  that  embrace  all  other  virtues. 
They  include  everything  that  could  be  desired  in  the  way  of  char- 
acter elements.    How  splendid  that  is !    Of  course  we  common 


150 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


men,  doubtless  stand  far  below  that  high  level  on  which  God 
placed  these  "noble"  ones,  and  "great"  ones,  and  "good,"  in  the 
vision  he  gave  to  one  of  the  noblest — Abraham.  But  how  comfort- 
ing it  is,  and  how  blest  it  must  be  to  have  the  assurance  that 
though  far  below,  in  excellence,  these  whom  God  has  selected  to 
be  his  rulers,  we  nevertheless  are  brothers  to  them ;  and  in  lesser 
degree  possessing  that  which  they  possess,  with  the  opportunity 
and  privilege  granted  to  us  to  approach  if  we  may  not  attain  to 
their  excellence.  Then  to  be  brothers  to  him — brothers  to  the 
Christ;  and  brothers  to  that  worthy  host  that  has  been  chosen  to 
be  associated  with  the  Christ  in  leadership  of  those  things  which 
make  for  the  accomplishment  of  God's  purposes  with  reference  to 
the  existence  of  man  in  the  earth.  That  affords  me  much  more 
comfort  than  to  think  of  man  as  being  related — even  though  dis- 
tantly related — to  the  brute  creation. 
I  close  with  this  scripture : 

"Behold,  what  manner  of  love  the  Father  hath  bestowed  upon 
us,  that  we  should  be  called  the  sons  of  God ;  *  *  *  and  it  doth 
not  yet  appear  what  we  shall  be."  That  is,  we  cannot  estimate  the 
possibilities  growing  out  of  that  truth,  and  that  relationship — "it 
doth  not  yet  appear  what  we  shall  be."  Eye  hath  not  soon,  ear  hath 
not  heard  the  depth  and  height  of  the  glory  which  God  designs  for 
his  children.  We  may  not  fathom  it  upward  or  downward,  "It  does 
not  yet  appear  what  we  shall  be,  but  we  know  that  when  he  shall 
appear,  we  shall  be  like  him ;  for  we  shall  see  him  as  he  is.  And 
every  man  that  hath  this  hope  in  him  purifieth  himself,  even 
as  he  is  pure."  (I.  John  3:1-3.)  God  grant  that  it  may  be  so,  I 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I,  too,  sincerely  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  be  with 
me  in  the  very  few  minutes  that  I  speak.  My  heart,  my  spirit,  my 
mind,  have  been  raised  to  praise  for  the  power  of  the  Almighty 
God,  and  for  gratitude  that  I  am  called  to  be  one  of  his  servants. 

This  conference  has  been  impressive  for  the  fact  that  our  faith 
in  God,  more  and  more,  has  been  expressed  by  every  speaker;  and 
not  that  I  could  carry  on  the  great  thought  that  has  been  expressed 
the  last  few  moments  to  the  end  that  we  might  be  raised  to  still 
greater  faith,  but  let  me  please  add  the  thought  that  has  impressed 
me  during  the  morning  session  of  this  conference ;  namely,  that  in 
all  history,  in  the  story  of  the  development  of  God's  children  to  the 
present  moment,  we  find  that  they  who  have  had  faith  in  him  as 
the  Creator  of  the  heavens  and  the  earth,  they,  the  races,  the  peo- 
ples, the  nations,  the  individuals  who  have  been  converted  to  the 
ways  of  Christ,  and  have  been  able  to  raise  their  voices  in  expres- 
sion of  the  living  faith  in  Christ, — those  people  and  nations  have 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


151 


been  the  ones  who  have  made  the  great  contribution  to  man's  up- 
lift, and  have  given  the  assurance  to  the  human  race  of  the  meaning 
of  life  and  of  the  destiny  of  man. 

There  is  something  great  that  we  must  contemplate  in  the  mis- 
sion of  the  Master.  He  did  teach  the  glory  of  God,  he  did  give 
unto  us  the  teaching  that  man  is  divine  and  that  the  power  of  the 
intellect  and  of  the  spirit  are  not  limited,  but  are  unlimited.  An- 
other great  thing  that  Jesus  has  left  to  us  as  an  abiding  testimony 
is  that  the  kingdom  of  God,  a  literal  kingdom,  will  be  established 
upon  this  earth,  a  kingdom  of  God  over  which  Christ  Jesus  will 
rule,  and  we  shall  be  members  of  that  kingdom,  as  we  place  our 
faith  in  God  and  know  for  a  surety,  from  day  to  day,  in  the  very 
living  of  our  lives,  in  our  contemplation  and  in  our  work,  in  those 
things  shall  we  become  members  of  Christ's  kingdom. 

It  is  a  mistake,  a  great  mistake,  today,  to  lose  sight  of  the  fact 
that  man  can  know  God.  In  that  masterful  work  The  World  and 
Life  that  was  put  out  just  previous  to  the  death  of  Alfred  Russell 
Wallace  he  did  rise  to  an  occasion,  and  when  the  pastor  said  in  his 
previous  book  entitled  The  Place  of  Man  in  the  Universe,  "Man 
cannot  know  God,"  yet  he  did  conclude  in  his  latter  work  that  "man 
can  know  God,  but  there  is  only  one  way,  and  that  is  by  divine 
revelation  which,"  said  he,  "man  has  not  had."  We  Latter-day 
Saints  give  our  testimony  to  the  world  that  man  may  know  God, 
and  he  knows  God  by  revelation.  It  is  our  testimony  to  the  world, 
it  is  the  only  true  way,  it  is  the  only  way  in  which  we  understand 
the  relationship  of  ourselves  to  our  Maker. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  there  are  two  great  sources  that  will 
make  the  world  move  onward  to  the  Christ  and  to  the  kingdom  of 
God.  They  are  education  and  religion.  Religion  is  the  inner  light. 
It  is  something  within  and  not  without.  Our  greatest  power  lies 
in  the  spirit,  and  it  will  be  by  the  spirit  that  we  will  work  out  this 
problem.  It  must  come  from  within.  It  is  a  condition  of  mind,  a 
condition  of  spirit,  this  religion,  this  vision ;  and  the  trouble  with 
the  world  today  is  that  there  is  no  vision,  and  the  world  is  perish- 
ing for  the  want  of  it.  We  claim  to  have  the  vision,  and  we  have, 
but  that  vision  comes  as  an  inner  light,  and  our  power  is  the  inner 
light,  and  it  binds  us  to  our  Maker.  Now  men  do  search  for  truth, 
and  men  will  find  out  truth;  and,  continuing  this  theme  of  President 
Roberts,  I  think  the  words  of  Isaiah  stand,  then,  as  a  fitting  com- 
plement, if  you  please,  to  this  great  truth  that  has  been  uttered : 

"Arise,  shine;  for  thy  light  is  come,  and  the  glory  of  the  Lord  is  risen 
upon  thee." 

And  Luke,  continuing  this  same  great  thought,  says,  in  the  first 
chapter  of  his  writings : 

.  .  .  That  comes  "to  give  light  to  them  that  sit  in  darkness,  and  in  the 
shadow  of  death"  he  comes  "to  guide  our  feet  into  the  way  of  peace." 

And  we  might  add — truth  and  right  and  understanding.  For 
the  light  and  the  glory  of  God  will  be  understood  as  we  come  to 
place  ourselves  in  a  position  to  understand,  and  understanding 


152 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


comes  through  the  condition  of  our  spirits,  and  our  spirits  are 
cleansed,  made  clean,  by  righteous  living  and  an  attitude  toward  all 
mankind,  showing  that  we  love  them.  Truth  expresses  itself  in 
love  and  happiness  and  joy  and  peace.  For  this  reason  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  should  not  only  be  thankful  for  vision,  they  should  be 
grateful  for  the  happiness  that  has  come  to  us,  for  the  spirit  of  the 
gospel  of  Christ  is  one  of  happiness  and  joy  and  thanksgiving.  We 
should  be  the  most  encouraged  people  in  all  the  world.  That  God 
may  grant  that  we  may  continue  in  the  vision,  that  the  vision  may 
continue  with  us,  one  by  one,  each  and  every  one  of  us,  that  the 
vision  of  the  Father,  the  power  of  God  and  the  establishment  of 
his  kingdom  may  remain  in  our  hearts  to  lead  and  direct  us,  I  ask, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the 
Lord." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  George  W.  McCune, 
president  of  the  Los  Angeles  stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


CLOSING  SESSION 

On  Tuesday  afternoon  at  2  o'clock,  October  6,  1925,  the  closing 
meeting  of  the  Conference  convened  in  the  Tabernacle. 
President  Heber  J.  Grant,  presided. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Guide  us,  O  thou  great  Jehovah." 
Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  W.  Oriel  Stephens,  president  of  the 
Summit  stake. 

The  hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel,"  was  sung  by  the  congregation. 
PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

PRESIDENCY  OF  THE  PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION  REORGANIZED 

We  will  now  present  the  General  Authorities  and  the  general 
officers  of  the  Church  and  of  the  auxiliary  associations  for  your  sup- 
port. Before  doing  so,  however,  I  wish  to  announce  that  Sister 
Louie  B.  Felt  who,  for  forty-five  years,  has  faithfully  and  diligently 
presided  over  the  Primary  General  Board,  has  requested  that  she 
be  released  from  those  labors ;  and  her  counselors,  Sisters  May  An- 
derson and  Clara  W.  Beebe,  will  naturally  be  released  with  her. 
These  sisters  are  releasd  with  our  love  and  blessing  and  with  our 
sincere  thanks  for  their  very  splendid  labors.  Sister  Felt  not  only 
has  presided  for  forty-five  years,  with  dignity  and  energy  and  for 
the  benefit  of  these  Associations,  but  she  was  also,  as  I  remember 
it,  the  president  of  the  second  Primary  Association  organized  in  the 
Church,  which  was  in  the  Eleventh  Ward  of  this  city. 

Sisters  Louie  B.  Felt  and  Counselors  were  released  as  the 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES 


153 


Presidency  of  the  General  Board  of  the  Primary  Association,  with 
a  vote  of  thanks. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  the  General  Authorities  and  the  General  Officers  of  the 
Church  as  follows.  All  were  sustained  in  their  positions  and  callings  by 
the  unamious  vote  of  the  conference: 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  ' 

•      FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthony  W.  Ivins,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Charles  W.  Nibley,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Reed  Smoot  James  E.  Talmage 

George  Albert  Smith  Stephen  L.  Richards 

George  F.  Richards  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

David  O.  McKay  John  A.  Widtsoe 

PRESIDING  PATRIARCH 

Hyrum  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and 
the  Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Brigham  H.  Roberts 
Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Charles  H.  Hart 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Levi  Edgar  Young 

Joseph  W.  McMurrin  Rey  L.  Pratt 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CUURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants:  Andrew 
Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A.  William  Lund,  Junius  F.  Wells. 


154  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

SUPERINTENDENT  OF  SCHOOLS 

Adam  S.  Bennion,  and  the  General  Church  Board  of  Education 
as  now  constituted. 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Henry  H.  Rolapp  John  C.  Cutler  Peter  G.  Johnston 

-    TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor  B.  Cecil  Gates,  Asst.  Conductor 

ORGANISTS 

Edward  P.  Kimball  Alexander  Schreiner 

Tracy  Y.  Cannon  Frank  W.  Asper 

George  C.  Smith,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

CLERK  OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Edward  H.  Anderson 
GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Clarissa  S.  Williams,  President 
Jennie  B.  Knight,  First  Counselor 
Louise  Y.  Robison,  Second  Counselor 
with  the  General  Board  of  Relief  Society  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

David  O.  McKay,  General  Superintendent 
Stephen  L.  Richards,  1st  Asst.  Gen'l  Supt. 
George  D.  Pyper,  2nd  Asst.  Gen'l  Supt. 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG    MEN'S    MUTUAL    IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Albert  Smith,  General  Superintendent 
Richard  R.  Lyman,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  LADIES'   MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Martha  H.  Tingey,  President 
Ruth  May  Fox,  First  Counselor 
Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  President 
Sadie  G.  Pack,  First  Counselor 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  Second  Counselor 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


155 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  rejoice  with  you  in  all  that  has  transpired  and  been  said  dur- 
ing this  conference.  I  have  never  believed,  since  I  have  been  active 
in  the  Church,  that  God  gives  to  man  fear.  1  know  that  God  gives 
to  you  power  and  love  and  a  sound  mind  when  you  are  under  the 
influence  of  the  holy  Spirit  and  have  the  spirit  of  your  office  and 
calling.  I  appreciate  the  fact,  perhaps  better  than  some  men  do, 
that  it  is  very  difficult  to  be  understood.  God's  declarations  to  the 
children  of  men  (it  is  self-evident  from  what  has  been  said  during 
this  conference)  are  misunderstood  by  many  of  his  children,  and 
they  misinterpret  them.  The  Savior,  the  Son  of  the  living  God, 
came  upon  this  earth  and  went  through  all  his  sufferings  and  did 
the  things  he  saw  his  Father  do,  but  he  was  not  understood.  He 
was  misinterpreted,  and  some  of  his  children  did  it  conscientiously, 
no  doubt,  and  some  very  wickedly,  Joseph  Smith,  a  prophet  of 
God,  a  man  whom  I  have  honored  all  my  life — I  was  taught  it  by 
my  father  in  my  childhood — see  how  he  was  misinterpreted !  In 
the  Southern  states,  when  I  was  presiding  over  elders  in  that  mis- 
sion, I  told  them,  "You  want  to  make  friends,  but  when  under  the 
influence  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  you  testify  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a 
prophet,  it  will  bring  you  all  the  trouble  you  can  endure."  I  found 
that  true,  butx  among  God's  children  we  found  good  people  who 
would  be  willing  to  accept  the  gospel.  All  great  men  have  been 
misunderstood.  So  I  conclude  that  to  be  misunderstood  is  great- 
ness; that  is,  if  you  speak  the  truth. 

I  want  to  tell  you  in  a  few  words  that  there  is  nothing  in  the 
world  that  the  wicked  dislike  so  much  as  the  truth,  and  if  you  will 
tell  the  truth  under  the  influence  of  the  holy  Spirit  you  will  have 
to  have  faith  in  God  and  realize  that  you  are  in  his  service.  I  have 
a  paper  here — I  did  not  write  it  for  this  conference  as  I  never  like 
to  read,  but  sometimes  I  have  to  do  it  in  order  to  make  myself 
clear — it  is  the  impressions  of  J.  G.  Kimball.  You  ought  to  know 
who  I  am  by  this  time : 

"It  is  not  difficult,  in  fact  it  -seems  to  me  natural — it  is  just  as 
natural  as  water  running  down  hill,  to  accept  God's  own  declara- 
tion of  truth  as  it  has  been  revealed  and  to  uphold  and  sustain  the 
prophets  as  mouthpieces  of  God.  It  is  not  difficult  for  me,  I  do  not 
know  anything  else.  I  have  never  been  taught  anything  else.  The 
very  foundation  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  is  faith  in  God  and 
in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  one  of  its  chief  corner  stones  is  author- 
ity. The  perfection  of  righteousness  is  implicit  faith  in  God,  in  his 
revelations,  in  his  disciples,  and  in  their  teachings.  The  very  es- 
sence of  goodness  is  not  to  doubt,  as  doubt  is  sometimes  the  very 
opposite  of  faith.  It  could  not  be  otherwise,  as  it  is  easy  and  natural 
for  Latter-day  Saints  to  accept  God's  declaration,  as  given  through 
Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet,  as  the  word  of  God,  and  to  sustain  all 


156 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


those  who  are  mouthpieces  for  God.  We  make  the  further  claim 
that  the  elder  of  the  Latter-day  Saint  Church  is  also  called  of  God, 
and  his  commission  is  from  above  and  his  position  is  eternal." 

I  set  elders  apart,  assisting  the  brethren-almost  every  week.  I 
never  hesitate  when  placing  my  hands  upon  those  young  men,  to 
say,  "You  have  been  called  by  divine  authority  through  the  presi- 
dency of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints."  I  try 
to  impress  them  that  they  were  not  called  by  the  bishop,  or  by  the 
presidency  of  the  stake,  they  were  recommended  and  their  names 
were  sent  in  properly  endorsed ;  but  they  are  all  called  by  revela- 
tion, just  as  I  was  in  1883,  among  a  body  of  missionaries.  I  was 
the  only  one  in  that  whole  number  of  men  who  was  not  ordained 
a  Seventy,  as  my  first  mission  in  the  south  was  filled  as  an  elder, 
I  enjoyed  the  same  spirit  and  the  same  blessings  that  the  Seventies 
enjoyed  because  I  was  called  by  the  same  authority,  and  the  spirit 
of  my  appointment  went  with  me. 

An  elder  is  sent  out  not  to  represent  his  personal  views  or  the 
views  of  the  people,  but  to  proclaim  the  truth  as  it  is  revealed.  He 
is  not  chosen  as  a  spokesman  for  the  people,  not  just  as  a  mes- 
senger, but  the  bearer  of  a  message  to  the  people. 

We  reach  the  final  conclusion  that  this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  restored 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  The  religion  that  we  advocate 
is  Christ's  religion,  not  "Mormon's  religion" ;  that  is,  it  is  the  word 
of  God.   We  do  not  teach  for  doctrines  the  commandments  of  men. 

That  is  my  testimony.  I  do  not  think  I  have  to  get  myself  all 
exercised  and  all  wrought  up  and  tear  my  lungs  all  to  pieces  to 
impress  you,  after  forty  years  of  labor  in  the  ministry.  Notwith- 
standing all  my  mistakes  and  blunders  I  have  had  this  testimony 
from  the  beginning,  and  the  beginning  was  in  the  Brigham  Young 
Academy,  under  the  teaching  and  instruction  of  Brother  Karl 
G.  Maeser.  President  Grant  told  us  last  evening  of  a  spot  of 
ground  he  will  never  forget.  And  it  impressed  me  with  a  feeling 
which  never  can  be  blotted  out — my  experience  as  a  pioneer  in 
Bear  Lake  when  I  went  into  that  log  meeting  house  and  heard 
Brother  Maeser  talk,  and  he  was  talking  about  the  gospel,  I  shall 
never  forget,  though  I  have  never  remembered  what  he  said,  but 
I  know  how  I  felt,  and  my  brother  Elias  and  I,  and  our  mother 
with  us,  made  as  great  a  sacrifice  as  I  have  ever  made  to  go  on  a 
mission,  when  we  moved  from  Bear  Lake  down  through  Evanston 
and  through  the  deep  snow  by  team,  and  not  by  railroad  or  auto. 
It  took  us  three  or  four  days  to  reach  Provo.  We  went  to  school. 
1  attended  two  years  and  my  brother  Elias  went  three.  1  am  telling 
you  this  because  I  have  felt,  as  I  have  not  felt  for  a  long  time,  the 
inspiration  through  the  prophets  of  God  when  they  concluded  to 
send  out  a  thousand  missionaries  ;  and  i,t  seems  that  some  'of  our 
people  did  not  understand  President  Grant,  they  got  the  idea  that 
they  were  sending  them  all  to  South  America.    It  is  a  mighty  good 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


157 


thing  that  they  did  not  do  so  because  it  would  have  created  per- 
secution. If  you  ever  rush  a  thousand  missionaries  into  a  place  I 
will  tell  you  legions  of  devils  will  turn  loose  and  drive  them  out. 
You  have  got  to  go  in  by  degrees.  I  know  that.  That  is  what 
happened  to  Heber  C.  Kimball  and  those  great  missionaries  in 
England,  when  they  fell  as  if  dead,  and  for  one  hour  they  laid  there 
and  had  a  vision  and  heard  the  trampling  of  feet  of  legions  of  devils 
or  evil  spirits.  The  devil  always  kicks  up  a  row.  I  remember  in 
President  Roberts'  day,  when  they  began  to  persecute  us  and  drive 
us  out  of  the  South — I  remember  when  Brother  Roberts  was  com- 
ing home  with  an  emigration  and  I  was  left  in  the  office.  Letters 
came  from  all  over  the  mission  in  1884,  one  of  the  terrible  years  of 
the  South,  "What  shall  we  do?"  I  wrote  to  President  Taylor  and 
asked  him  what  I  should  do?  He  only  wrote  a  few  lines,  "When 
they  persecute  you  in  one  place,  flee  ye  into  another."  I  wrote  that 
hundreds  of  times,  when  the  mob  was  after  the  elders,  "Flee  to 
another  place,  and  just  as  soon  as  you  can,  come  back."  But  if 
they  drive  you  out  and  tell  you  never  to  come  back,  if  you  do  go 
back  they  will  kill  you  just, as  they  did  the  brethren  in  Cane  Creek. 
They  told  them  not  to  go  back,  but  they  needed  a  resting  place, 
and  they  killed  them.    I  know,  I  was  in  the  mission. 

Brethren,  what  I  want  to  talk  to  you  about  a  few  minutes  is 
my  own  experience.  I  know  more  about  myself  than  any  man, 
living  in  the  flesh.  I  am  getting  pretty  well  acquainted  with  my- 
self. I  am  surprised  sometimes  at  the  things  I  do  and  say,  more 
than  you  are.  I  remember  after  I  went  to  school  I  came  home  and 
went  to  Bear  Lake.  I  came  down  here  on  a  little  business  which 
I  happened  to  have  with  William  C.  Spence,  of  the  President's 
office;  he  said,  "Brother  Kimball,  President  Taylor  sent  you  a  letter 
calling  you  on  a  mission,  and  he  is  disturbed  because  you  have  not 
answered."  I  said,  "How  could  I  answer  it,  when  I  never  got  it?" 
"Well,  you'd  better  go  in  and  see  him."  I  went  into  the  President's 
office,  the  first  time  since  I  was  a  young  boy  with  my  father,  and 
I  met  that  great  and  wonderful  prophet.  I  said,  "President  Taylor, 
I  never  received  your  letter."  "Well,  Brother  Kimball"  (he  was 
so  kind,  he  thought  so  much  of  Heber  C.  Kimball  and  that  made 
him  think  a  lot  of  me),  "you  cannot  go  now."  I  had  been  praying 
for  it,  I  had  been  asking  the  Lord  why  I  could  not  go.  My  mother 
had  been  praying  that  God  would  send  me  out.  I  said,  "President 
Taylor,  give  me  one  hour  and  I  will  give  you  my  answer."  I  went 
out  on  the  street,  and  the  first  man  I  met  was  Bishop  Thomas 
Jenkins  of  the  Seventh  ward,  who  had  been  to  Bear  Lake  and  I 
knew  him.  I  said,  "Brother  Jenkins,  will  yau  sign  my  note  for  a 
hundred  dollars?"  "You  bet,  I  will."  So  we  went  down  to  the 
Deseret  National  Bank  and  he  endorsed  my  note,  and  I  came  back 
to  the  office  with  one  hundred  dollars  in  my  pocket,  and  I  said, 
"President  Taylor,  I  am  ready."  I  went  on  that  mission.  N;o 
greater  blessing  has  ever  come  into  my  life. 


158 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


That  is  the  first  time  I  ever  saw  Elder  B.  H.  Roberts.  No 
greater  favor  ever  comes  to  a  man  than  to  be  called  on  a  mission. 
I  met  a  nephew  last  night,  one  of  Heber  C.  Kimball's  grandchildren. 
He  said,  "Uncle  Golden,  when  I  was  a  young  fellow"— he  is  now  a 
High  Councilor  in  one  of  the  stakes — "you  came  to  me  and  said, 
'Are  you  ready  for  a  mission  ?'  I  answered  you  as  I  should  not  have 
done,  but  the  greatest  mistake  I  have  ever  made  in  my  life  was 
that  I  did  not  respond  at  that  time  and  have  you  present  my  name." 

There  is  a  little  story  in  connection  with  this  that  I  want  to 
impress  you  with. 

I  remember  when  we  arrived  at  Chattanooga,  Brother  Roberts 
sent  me  and  a  son  of  an  apostle  into  Virginia.  When  our  visit  in 
Chattanooga  was  over,  and  we  had  paid  our  expenses  I  had  ten 
dollars.  When  we  got  to  the  end  of  the  railroad  I  said  to  my  com- 
panion :  "Let's  ride  in  a  carriage,  it  will  be  the  last  time  we  will 
ever  see  one."  I  did  not  know  that  I  was  a  prophet,  but  it  came 
true.  When  we  reached  our  field  of  labor  we  lay  around  there  for 
about  three  weeks.  I  said  to  my  companion,  who  was  from  the 
Brigham  Young  Academy,  "Let  us  go  up  into  the  woods  and  see 
if  we  can  sing,"  (I  couldn't  carry  a  tune,  I  never  tried  to  sing  in  the 
Academy),  "and  let  us  go  up  and  learn  to  pray."  We  did  not  have 
any  audience,  only  those  great  big  trees.  And  I  said  "Let  us  learn 
to  preach."  I  would  advise  young  elders  to  do  that  before  they 
start  out  and  not  practice  so  much  on  the  people ;  we  practiced  on 
the  trees.  So  I  prepared  myself  and  occupied  the  time.  My  com- 
panion was  prepared,  and  we  sang.  We  made  an  awful  mess  of  it, 
but  after  a  while — and  that  is  another  testimony — God  brought  the 
tunes  to  us,  and  we  could  sing  the  songs  that  we  had  listened  to  in 
the  Academy.  Then  I  preached.  God  was  kind  to  us  and  he 
loosed  our  tongues  and  we  found  we  were  able  to  express  the 
things  we  had  studied.  I  rem'ember  my  companion  was  dismissing. 
We  had  our  eyes  shut  and  our  hands  up.  I  thought  he  would 
never  get  through;  and  when  he  said,  Amen,  we  looked  back,  and 
there  were  four  men  standing  behind  us  with  guns  on  their  shoul- 
ders. I  said  to  my  companion,  "That  is  another  lesson,  from  this 
time  on  in  the  South ;  I  shall  pray  with  one  eye  open." 

So,  I  will  conclude  my  remarks  by  saying  that  I  filled  that 
mission.  Brother  Roberts  and  Brother  John  Morgan  are  my  wit- 
nesses that  I  completed  it,  although  I  was  broken  down  with 
malaria.  But  I  came  home  with  an  honorable  release ;  it  was  in 
1884  that  I  came  home.  I  worked  in  the  Mutuals,  started  in  Bear 
Lake  with  the  elders.  I  wound  up  as  superintendent  of  the  Mutuals. 
I  traveled  from  Evanston  to  Soda  Springs  in  snow  and  cold  wea- 
ther, and  suffered.  By  the  way,  when  I  went  on  my  first  mission 
I  told  President  Taylor,  "If  you  will  let  my  brother  Elias  stay  at 
home,  I  can  fill  my  mission."  That  put  the  idea  in  his  head,  and 
Elias  was  called  right  after  I  was,  and  we  both  went,  we  left  our 
cattle  and  our  horses  and  everything  we  had. 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


159 


Then  came  my  second  mission.  There  was  no  noise  about  it, 
word  just  came,  "You  are  called  to  preside  over  the  Southern  States 
mission,  and  Brother  Spry  will  take  you  down  and  turn  the  mission 
over  to  you."  He  did,  and  he  did  it  mighty  hurriedly,  too,  and  left 
me  to  preside.  During  my  first  year  I  came  home  with  an  emigra- 
tion, and  while  I  was  trying  to  comfort  my  wife  who  was  sick, 
Brother  Roberts  wired  me  to  come  down  and  be  ordained  as  one  of 
the  First  Council  of  Seventy.  They  never  asked  me,  they  never 
consulted  with  me,  they  just  sent  for  me,  and  I  have  been  in  this 
Council  thirty-three  years.  I  filled  my  mission.  One  day  Brother 
Reynolds  and  I  came  out  of  the  Council  meeting,  and  when  we  got 
to  the  gate,  he  said,  "Brother  Kimball,  you  are  released,  and  your 
brother  Elias  is  appointed."  The  two  of  us  spent  ten  years  in  the 
south  and  when  we  came  back  we  didn't  have  a  thing  but  our 
families  and  our  lives. 

The  Lord  has  been  good  to  me.  No  man  in  the  Church  has 
been  favored  more  or  treated  more  kindly  than  I  have.  I  have 
got  all  that  I  have  deserved  and  a  good  deal  more.  My  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  is  my  testimony.  I  have  been  among  the  Seventies 
for  the  past  year.  My  health  was  not  very  good  last  vear.  I  have 
never  allowed  a  Sabbath  day  to  pass  me,  if  I  could  make  an  ap- 
pointment, that  I  have  not  been  among  the  Seventies.  I  am 
acquainted  with  the  Seventies.  If  you  want  Seventies  to  go  on  mis- 
sions I  can  speak  for  them.  If  you  call  them  they  will  go,  but  if 
you  want  them  to  stay  home  they  will  do  so,  and  so  will  L  I  will 
go  on  a  mission  if  called.  I  am  not  just  talking  either,  God  knows 
it,  and  I  know  it.  I  would  go  if  I  were  brought  back  in  a  casket, 
and  I  do  not  know  but  I  would  be  tickled  to  death  to  have  it  come 
that  way. 

I  have  never  been  more  greatly  impressed  than  by  Colonel 
Bryan,  a  man  of  the  world  who  died  fighting  for  God  and  testifying 
as  far  as  his  knowledge  went.  What  more  can  any  man  do?  That 
is  the  way  I  feel.  I  shall  stav  in  this  work.  I  uphold  it.  Inasmuch 
as  you  need  a  thousand  missionaries  for  six  months'  missions  there 
will  be  no  trouble  in  getting  them.  I  have  asked  hundreds  of 
Seventies  and  had  them  stand  on  their  feet  and  asked,  "How  many 
of  you  have  filled  missions?"  (They  would  stand  up).  "How  many 
of  you  have  not  filled  missions?"  "How  many  of  you  have  never 
been  asked  to  go  on  missions?"  And  I  am  astonished  at  the  hun- 
dreds and  hundreds  of  the  Seventies  who  have  never  been  asked 
to  go.  They  may  have  been  considered  by  the  prsidents  of  stakes 
and  bishops.   But  if  you  want  a  man  to  go  on  a  mission,  call  him. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  you,  to  bless  the  authorities  of  the 
Church,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


160 

■ 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  have  been  very  greatly  impressed  during  the  meetings  of  this 
conference  with  the  wonderful  drama  that  has  been  enacted  on 
the  stage  of  this  earth  upon  which  we  dwell.  It  has  been  said  by 
a  Latin  scholar  that  history  is  the  witness  of  time  (Historia,  testis 
temporum  est),  and  it  seems  to  me  that  there  is  nothing  that  is 
more  indelibly  imprinted  upon  the  history  of  the  human  race  than 
the  purposes  of  the  Almighty,  that  there  is  a  Providence  over  all, 
and  he  is  guiding  and  directing  the  destinies  of  his  children.  I 
think  it  has  been  made  plain  that  this  history,  if  we  are  to  prop- 
erly understand  it,  begins  before  the  foundations  of  this  earth  were 
laid;  that  we  who  dwell  upon  the  face  of  the  earth  today,  counted 
as  we  are  by  many  hundreds  of  millions,  and  those  who  were  before 
us,  even  from  the  very  beginning  of  time,  have  at  one  time  dwelt  in 
that  primeval  world  in  the  presence  of  our  Father  in  heaven  as  his 
children;  and  the  scenes  that  are  now  being  enacted  are  in  pursu- 
ance of  the  great  plan  that  was  evolved  by  him  in  the  very  begin- 
ning, in  that  primeval  state  that  we  read  about  in  the  holy  scrip- 
tures, when  the  morning  stars  sang  together  and  all  the  sons  of 
God  shouted  for  joy.  Then  and  in  that  pre-existent  state,  as  it  is 
now,  there  were  differences  among  the  children  of  God,  there  were 
some  who  were  noble  and  great  and  good ;  there  were  some  who 
were  evil  and  had  many  weaknesses,  and  fell  far  short  of  doing  the 
things  that  were  necessary  for  their  own  progress  arid  exaltation. 
But  in  the  midst  of  all  the  children  of  God,  when  the  plan  was  an- 
nounced, there  were  some  who  fulfilled  their  first  estate,  not  all  in 
equal  degree,  but  they  were  different,  some  of  them  were  great  and 
noble  and  were  chosen  to  be  the  rulers  among  men.  There  were 
some  who  were  choice,  though  in  lesser  degree,  who  were  worthy 
of  some  distinction,  and  still  others  who  were  not  so  worthy,  yet 
all  of  them  having  fulfilled  their  first  estate  were  permitted  to  dwell 
in  mortal  life  upon  the  earth,  and  they  were  known  of  the  Almighty 
and  he  was  interested  in  the  welfare  of  them  all. 

Among  the  great  ones,  as  we  have  been  told,  was  Abraham. 
Abraham  was  a  man  whom  God  loved ;  and  he,  too,  loved  the  Lord, 
and  the  Lord  knew  him.  He  knew  that  he  would  keep  his  statutes, 
that  he  would  obey  his  commandments,  and  not  only  that  but  he 
would  teach  his  own  children  after  him.  It  is  through  that  lineage 
that  we  today  have  the  knowledge  of  the  true  and  living  God.  It 
is  through  that  lineage  that  a  record  has  been  preserved  among 
the  children  of  men,  giving  a  history  of  the  dealings  of  God  with 
his  children.  Those  that  were  more  favored  because  of  their  faith- 
fulness in  that  pre-existent  world  were  the  ones  that  were  to  come 
through  the  lineage  of  Abraham,  for  the  Lord  blessed  Abraham  and 
promised  him  that  in  him  and  his  seed  should  all  the  nations.of  the 
earth  be  blessed.   Those  who  were  faithful  to  a  marked  degree  in 


\ 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


161 


that  pre-existent 'state  were  privileged  to  come  in  due  course  of 
time  through  that  lineage,  the  children  of  Abraham.  What  greater 
privilege  could  a  child  of  God  desire  than  to  be  numbered  among 
those  whom  God  permitted  to  come  through  that  lineage,  that 
should  bring  into  this  world  and  preserve  among  the  children  of 
men  a  knowledge  of  the  true  and  living  God  that  they  might  be 
taught  in  his  ways  ? 

In  the  progress  of  this  human  drama  the  Lord  delivered  his 
chosen  people  out  of  their  bondage  in  the  land  of  Egypt,  directed 
and  guided  by  a  great  prophet  of  God,  Moses.  He  brought  them 
out  into  the  wilderness  and  endeavored  to  eradicate  from  among 
them  the  idolatrous  ideas  they  had  imbibed  in  the  land  of  Egypt. 
And  the  Lord  took  his  servant,  the  Prophet  Moses,  up  into  the 
mountain  and  delivered  unto  him  the  word  of  the  Lord  regarding 
the  plan  of  life  and  salvation.  The  tablets  upon  which  it  was  writ- 
ten, when  he  came  down  from  the  mount  and  saw  them  worshiping 
the  golden  calf,  were  broken  into  pieces  in  the  anger  of  that  mighty 
man  of  God.  He  was  called  again  up  into  the  mount  and  brought 
back  with  him  the  law  of  carnal  commandments,  that  men  might 
repent  of  their  sins  and  avoid  the  evils  of  the  world  and  be 
schooled  that  they  might  disseminate  among  the  inhabitants  of  the 
world  a  knowledge  of  those  principles  that  had  within  them  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation. 

And  in  further  process  of  time,  after  having  sent  so  many 
prophets,  whom  they  stoned  and  persecuted,  came  the  Only  Be- 
gotten of  the  Father  in  the  flesh,  to  restore  anew  that  great  law, 
the  law  of  grace,  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  the 
world  might  not  be  without  it  and  the  children  of  God  might  be 
saved,  and  might  be  brought  to  repentance  and  prepare  themselves 
for  that  eternal  glory  that  was  thought  out  and  planned  from  the 
very  beginning.  Notwithstanding  the  rebellious  spirit  that  mani- 
fested itself  throughout  all  these  ages,  there  has  been  committed 
to  that  lineage  a  knowledge  of  the  things  of  God,  and  of  him  who 
was  indeed  the  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob.  Great  promises 
were  made  unto  that  lineage,  and  I  am  going  to  read  just  a  little 
from  the  scriptures,  to  be  found  in  the  forty-ninth  chapter  of 
Genesis.  Abraham  was  the  father  of  Isaac,  and  Isaac  the  father 
of  Jacob,  whom  the  Lord  named  Israel,  who  became  the  father  of 
the  twelve  tribes  of  Israel;  and  that  great  and  mighty  man,  when 
his  days  began  to  draw  to  a  close,  called  around  him  his  twelve 
sons  and  bestowed  upon  each  in  their  order  his  blessing,  to  be  ful- 
filled upon  their  heads,  and  to  Joseph  he  gave  this  blessing: 

"Joseph  is  a  fruitful  bough,  even  a  fruitful  bough  by  a  well;  whose 
branches  run  over  the  wall." 

And  later  in  that  same  blessing  said  he: 

"Even  by  the  God  of  my  father,  who  shall  help  thee;  and  by  the  Al- 
mighty, who  shall  bless  thee  with  blessings  of  heaven  above,  blessings  of 
the  deep  that  lieth  under." 

I  have  ofttimes  thought,  what  can  these  references  mean?" 


162 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Here  is  a  family,  a  lineage,  a  seed  scattered  among  the  children  of 
men,  by  which  all  the  nations  of  the  earth  are  to  be  blessed.  That 
was  the  blessing  that  was  given  to  Abraham,  and  the  Lord  gave 
him  a  promise,  and  led  Moses  into  the  promised  land,  which  was 
to  be  the  land  of  their  inheritance,  the  land  of  Palestine,  the  land  of 
Judea,  the  Holy  Land.  This  was  the  land  that  was  given  unto  the 
seed  of  Abraham  to  be  an  everlasting  inheritance  unto  them.  But 
here  we  have  him  pronouncing  the  blessing  upon  the  head  of 
Joseph :  "Joseph  is  a  fruitful  bough,  even  a  fruitful  bough  by  a 
well ;  whose  branches  run  over  the  wall."  What  did  it  mean  ? 
Did  it  not  mean  that  this  blessing  was  being  realized  when  father 
Lehi  left  the  shores  of  old  Arabia  and  crossed  the  great  waters, 
even  the  mighty  Pacific  Ocean,  and  landed  probably  on  the  west- 
ern coast  of  Chile  in  South  America,  in  Valparaiso?  One  would 
almost  think  that  father  Lehi  and  his  family  had  suggested  the 
name,  for  that  was  the  valley  of  Paradise.  Surely  they  felt  that 
under  the  guidance  they  had  received  they  had  come  to  the  para- 
dise of  God,  Valparaiso,  the  valley  of  Paradise.  Here  then,  it  seems 
to  me,  although  vaguely  stated,  might  be  a  fulfillment  of  this  prom- 
ise unto  Joseph,  whose  branches,  but  not  all  of  the  house  of  Joseph, 
ran  over  the  wall.  Rather  vague,  perhaps,  but  let  me  read  another 
paragraph  following,  wherein  it  says  : 

"Even  by  the  God  of  thy  father,  who  shall  help  thee;  and  the  Almighty, 
who  shall  bless  thee  with  the  blessings  of  heaven  above,  blessings  of  the 
deep  that  lieth  under." 

Here  then  is  another  inference.  What  else  could  it  have  re- 
ferred to  than  the  land  of  America,  standing  as  he  was  at  that  time 
in  Egypt,  saying  that  his  branches  should  run  over  the  wall,  and 
that  the  blessings  of  heaven  above  and  of  the  deep  that  lieth  under 
should  be  given  him.  He  seemed  to  have  understood  at  that  time 
that  the  world  was  round,  and  that  that  part  (which  is  now  Amer- 
ica) that  lieth  under  was  to  be  the  land  of  Joseph.  Even  this  may 
be  considered  a  somewhat  vague  reference.  But  let  us  read  on. 
It  would  seem  that  there  was  a  determination  to  banish  all  doubt 
from  our  minds  when  we  read  these  words  pronounced  upon  the 
head  of  Jeseph,.  for  it  says  here :  "The  blessings  of  thy  father," 
(that  was  Jacob,  called  Israel)  "have  prevailed  above  the  blessings 
of  my  progenitors."  Who  were  they?  Abraham,  and  Isaac,  the 
blessings  that  were  pronounced  upon  them,  and  the  giving  to  them 
of  that  land  of  promise, — Palestine,  Judea, — to  be  an  eternal  in- 
heritance to  the  seed  of  Abraham.  But  here  was  something  above 
and  beyond  pronounced  upon  the  head  of  Joseph.    Said  he: 

"The  blessings  of  thy  father  (Jacob)  have  prevailed  above  the  blessings 
of  my  progenitors,  unto  the  utmost  bounds  of  the  everlasting  hills." 

O,  how  plain  it  would  seem;  the  vagueness  disappears;  But 
that  pertained  to  the  house  of  Joseph :    Let  us  read  on : 

"The  blessings  of  thy  father  have  prevailed  above  the  blessings  of  my 
progenitors  unto  the  utmost  bounds  of  the  everlasting  hills,  and  they  shall 
be  on  the  head  of  Joseph  and  on  the  crown  of  the  head  of  him  that  was 
separate  from  his  brethren." 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


163 


And  here  we  are  in  the  land  of  Joseph ;  and  through  the  inter- 
position of  the  Almighty,  his  purposes  are  written  in  the  pages  of 
history,  wherein  he  has  sent  the  seed  of  Abraham  all  over  the 
world,  that  all  the  nations  of  the  world  are  to  be  blessed  in  his 
seed.  The  Jews  are  to  return  to  the  land  of  their  inheritance,  but 
Joseph  must  be  gathered  upon  the  land  of  Joseph,  which  is  North 
and  South  America.  And  so  we  are  gathering  them  from  the  coun- 
tries of  Europe.  Those  who  came  with  father  Lehi  were  mostly 
the  children  of  Manasseh,  the  son  of  Joseph,  but  most  of  those  who 
have  been  scattered  in  the  different  nations  of  the  earth  are  the 
children  of  Joseph  through  his  son  Ephraim,  and  these  are  they  who 
hear  the  voice  of  the  good  Shepherd  and  are  being  gathered  to  the 
land  of  Joseph  through  the  ministrations  of  the  elders  of  Israel  in 
these  days,  and  in  whose  veins  flows  the  blood  of  Abraham,  Isaac 
and  Jacob,  and  of  Joseph;  for  they  belong  to  the  tribe  of  Joseph. 
Have  our  patriarchs  not  prophesied  upon  our  heads,  O  ye  children 
of  Israel,  ye  sons  and  daughters  of  Zion,  have  we  not  been  told  that 
we  were  the  children  of  Abraham  through  Joseph  and  Ephraim? 
And  so,  I  say,  the  children  of  Ephraim  are  being  gathered  upon  the 
land  of  Joseph,  a  choice  land  above  all  other  lands,  extending  from 
the  north  pole  to  the  south  pole  in  this  great  western  hemisphere. 

I  rejoice  therefore  in  having  the  opportunity  of  doing  my  little 
part  in  the  bringing  about  of  this  great  work,  in  carrying  the  mes- 
sage to  the  lost  sheep  of  the  house  of  Israel,  and  in  gathering  into 
the  fold  the  children  of  Abraham,  by  bearing  the  message  of  life 
and  salvation,  searching  them  out  wherever  they  may  be.  I  ac- 
cept, as  Elder  Ballard  did,  the  call  that  has  come  to  me,  and  I  re- 
joice in  having  the  opportunity  of  playing  a  small  part  at  least  in 
the  opening  up  of  that  great  work  in  the  southern  hemisphere 
among  the  children  of  Lehi,  and  I  hope  and  sincerely  pray  that  the 
Lord  will  qualify  me  for  that  mission.  I  rejoice  in  the  companion- 
ship that  we  have  in  Elder  Ballard,  an  apostle  of  the  Lord,  a  wit- 
ness of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  How  I  feel  to  uphold  and  sustain 
him,  and  will  endeavor  to  assist  him  with  all  my  might  that  he  may 
be  able  to  accomplish  all  that  the  Lord  would  have  him  do  in  this 
great  mission.  I  rejoice  in  the  companionship  of  Elder  Rey  L. 
Pratt,  whom  I  have  learned  to  love  as  my  fellow  laborer  in  the 
Council  to  which  I  belong,  and  in  my  association  with  him.  With 
the  help  of  the  Lord  I  desire  to  go  and  discharge  myself  of  the 
duty  that  now  lies  incumbent  upon  me ;  and  in  this  labor  I  hope 
and  pray  that  we  may  have  the  faith  and  prayers  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  that  the  purposes  of  the  Almighty  may  be  furthered,  and 
that  in  that  continent  where  the  gospel  has  not  yet  found  a  foot- 
hold, there  may  be  an  opening,  that  the  children  of  Israel,  the  de- 
scendants of  Abraham,  the  descendants  of  father  Lehi,  may  be 
brought  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth  and  rejoice  in  the  blessings  of 
the  gospel  of  our  Master,  and  I  pray  for  this  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


164 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  need  the  sympathy  and  faith  of  this  audience  and  the  blessings 
of  the  Lord  if  there  is  to  be  fulfilled  during  the  short  time  that  I  stand 
before  you  the  earnest  prayer  in  which  you  joined  this  afternoon,  that 
the  spiritual  feast  might  be  continued.  I  trust  that  it  may  not  be 
marred,  but  that  if  possible  it  may  be  added  to. 

John,  in  his  first  general  epistle,  uses  this  language : 

"For  the  life  was  manifested,  and  we  have  seen  it,  and  bear  witness,  and 
show  unto  you  that  eternal  life,  which  was  with  the  Father,  and  was  manifested 
unto  us." 

It  has  been  made  clear  by  the  remarks  of  the  brethren  during  this 
conference  that  there  are  two  classes  of  witnesses,  the  first,  the  Divine 
witness,  as  spoken  of  very  clearly  by  Elder  Whitney,  and  also  by  other 
speakers  during  this  conference,  and  human  witnesses,  mentioned  par- 
ticularly by  Elder  David  O.  McKay.  The  first  great  class  is  illustrated 
in  the  last  chapter  of  Moroni,  which  is  the  last  chapter  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  wherein  we  are  told  that  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
the  truth  of  all  things  may  be  made  known  unto  us,  and  the  formula 
is  given  for  obtaining  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  as  that  witness — 
by  prayer  to  God  the  Eternal  Father  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  with 
a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent  and  with  faith  in  Christ. 

Human  witnesses  are  provided  for  as  shown  by  the  twenty-seventh 
chapter  of  II  Nephi.  The  importance  of  this  class  of  witnesses  is 
emphasized  by  the  promise  of  the  three  witnesses  and  eight  witnesses  in 
support  of  the  divinity  of  the  Nephite  scriptures.  In  the  scriptures  we 
have  human  as  well  as  divine  testimony  to  support  the  truth.  1  appreci- 
ate both  classes  of  evidence.  I  am  impressed  with  the  testimony  of 
Mary,  the  mother  of  the  Master.  Her  testimony  is  recorded  in  holy 
writ  in  language  that  has  always  thrilled  me  when  I  read  it.  Of  all  the 
witnesses  except  the  great  testator,  the  Holy  Ghost,  it  seems  that  Mary, 
the  mother  of  Jesus,  should  know  as  well  as  anyone  the  divinity  of  her 
son.  Her  testimony  is  recorded  in  the  first  chapter  of  Luke,  beginning 
at  the  forty-sixth  verse,  when  she  realized  that  she  was  favored  above 
all  women,  as  the  angel  had  informed  her.    She  exclaimed: 

"My  soul  doth  magnify  the  Lord  and  my  spirit  hath  rejoiced  in  God  my 
Savior. 

"For  he  hath  regarded  the  low  estate  of  his  handmaiden;  for,  behold,  from 
henceforth  all  generations  shall  call  me  blessed. 

"For  he  that  is  mighty  hath  done  to  me  great  things ;  and  holy  is  his  name." 
Elizabeth,  her  cousin,  had  the  same  witness.   She  knew  that  Mary 
was  greatly  favored  above  women.    The  same  divine  testimony  came 
to  Joseph,  and  he  understood  the  honor  that  had  been  bestowed  upon 
him  and  upon  his  espoused. 

A  little  later,  Simeon  was  privileged  to  perform  the  law,  and 
when  he  takes  the  babe  in  his  arms  he  feels  that  the  honor  is  sufficient 
for  him;  that  he  is  now  ready  to  depart.  He  exclaims,  "Lord,  now 
lettest  thou  thy  servant  depart  in  peace  according  to  thy  word,  for  mine 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


165 


eyes  have  seen  thy  salvation,  which  God  hath  prepared  before  the  face 
of  all  people,  a  light  to  the  Gentiles,  and  the  glory  of  thy  people  Israel." 

There  was  also  the  promised  son  of  Elizabeth  to  testify  to  the 
coming  of  the  Master,  the  voice  crying  in  the  wilderness,  calling  to 
repentance  and  anouncing  that  there  came  one  after  him  whose  shoe 
latchet  he  was  not  worthy  to  stoop  down  and  unloose,  He  who  was  to 
baptize  with  fire,  as  he,  John,  was  baptizing  with  water. 

Then  there  was  Jesus'  marvelous  ministry.  At  twelve  years  of  age, 
the  boy  in  the  temple  asking  and  answering  questions  with  the  wise  men. 
Later  the  matchless  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  after  hearing  which  the 
people  were  astonished  because  he  taught  them  not  as  the  scribes,  but 
as  one  having  authority.  Then  his  wonderful  ministry  of  which  a 
ruler  of  the  Jews,  Nicodemus,  could  say  to  him,  "Rabbi,  we  know  that 
thou  art  a  teacher  sent  from  God  for  no  man  could  do  the  miracles  that 
thou  doest  except  God  be  with  him." 

And  yet  after  all  testimonies  of  Jesus'  ministry  we  have  reached  an 
age  when  study  and  scholarship  seem  to  darken  these  great  truths. 
Those  of  us  who  have  accepted  as  a  reality  the  introduction  of  the  Son 
by  the  Father  to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  the  revelation  upon  which  the 
restoration  of  the  gospel  is  founded,  can  scarcely  realize  the  darkened 
condition  of  the  minds  of  some  so-called  Biblical  scholars.  I  am  not  in 
the  habit  of  repeating  things  that  are  not  constructively  helpful,  but  it 
is  not  enough  to  be  satisfied  ourselves,  but  we  have  the  duty  of  assist- 
ing the  world  to  come  to  a  knowledge  of  the  great  truths  which  we 
rejoice  in.  There  were  published  in  some  of  the  recent  magazines  of 
international  value  the  remarks  of  a  professor  of  one  of  our  great 
institutions,  upon  this  subject  of  the  divinity  of  the  Master — a  man 
who  had  written  a  good  deal  concerning  Jesus,  and  yet  who  seemed  to 
become  more  darkened  the  more  he  wrote,  because  in  an  article  in  the 
Hibbert  Journal,  on  Jesus,  he  asserted  that  the  divine  incarnation  is 
alien  to  the  teachings  of  Jesus  Christ  and  to  those  of  the  original  dis- 
ciples, and  that  we  cannot  longer  regard  the  teachings  of  Jesus  as  of 
unique  authority  or  of  permanent  validity.  These  critics  profess  to 
give  greater  weight  to>  the  so-called  synoptical  gospels,  Matthew,  Mark 
and  Luke,  than  to  the  writings  of  John  or  of  Paul.  Since  reading  this 
assertion  of  this  professor  I  have  re-examined  the  sayings  of  Jesus  as 
recorded  in  some  of  the  synoptical  gospels,  particularly  Matthew,  to 
see  whether  it  was  possible  that  I  had  been  mistaken  all  this  while  in 
the  thought  that  these  gospels  did  give  indication  that  Jesus  proclaimed 
that  he  was  the  Christ.  We  have  had  some  of  these  instances  testi- 
fied to  during  this  conference.  The  answer  to  the  question  that  he 
asked  his  disciples  as  to  whom  men  said  he  was — the  final  answer  of 
Peter,  "Thou-  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God,"  and  the  reply 
of  approval  by  the  Master,  when  he  said,  "Blessed  art  thou,  Simon 
Bar-Jona,  for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed  this  unto  thee,  but  my 
Father  which  is  in  heaven." 

And  yet  in  the  light  of  such  scriptures  there  are  so-called  pro- 


166 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


fessors  who  will  declare  that  it  is  alien  to  the  teachings  of  Christ  that 
he  claims  incarnation,  or  to  be  the  Messiah  of  the  world. 

I  have  noted  many  passages  of  scripture,  particularly  from  Mat- 
thew, that  indicate  he  was  more  than  mortal.  For  instance,  in  the 
raising  of  the  boy  with  the  palsy,  when  he  said:  "Thy  sins  be  for- 
given thee,"  and  then,  reading  the  thoughts  of  the  Pharisees,  question- 
ing that  he  had  that  power,  he  asked  them  whether  it  was  easier  to  say, 
"Thy  sins  bje  forgiven  thee,"  or,  "Arise  and  take  up  thy  bed  and  walk?" 
He  performed  healings  under  cricumstances  that  one  could  not  doubt 
that  he  had  the  power  also  to  forgive  sins. 

When  the  mother  of  Zebedee's  children  came  to  him  and  asked 
the  privilege  for  one  of  her  children  to  sit  upon  his  left  hand  and  one 
upon  the  right,  he  told  her  that  privilege  was  not  his  to  bestow,  but 
was  the  right  of  his  Father. 

He  spoke  of  ascending  in  glory. 

I  shall  not  take  time  to  refer  to  any  considerable  number  of  these 
instances,  but  just  a  few  to  illustrate  how  presumptious  and  blasphemous 
it  would  have  been  for  the  Savior,  had  he  been  a  mere  mortal,  to  have 
assumed  the  authority  and  uttered  the  words  that  he  did,  in  the  auth- 
ority of  his  high  calling  as  the  Messiah  and  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world.  He  spoke  of  the  time  when  the  Son  of  man  shall  come  in  his 
glory  and  all  the  holy  angels  with  him.  "Then  shall  he  sit  upon  the 
throne  of  his  glory,  and  then  shall  the  king  say  unto  them  on  his  right 
hand,  Come,  ye  blessed  of  my  Father,  inherit  the  kingdom  prepared  for 
you  from  the  foundation  of  the  world."  Again,  at  the  time  of  his 
crucifixion,  "Thinkest  thou  that  I  cannot  now  pray  to  my  Father  and 
he  shall  presently  give  me  more  than  twelve  legions  of  angels?"  And 
then  the  circumstances  of  the  administering  of  the  holy  sacrament  to 
his  disciples,  and  the  concluding  commission  to  them :  "Go  ye  therefore 
and  teach  all  nations,  baptizing  them  in  the  name  of  the  Father,  and  of 
the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost  teaching  them  to  observe  all  things 
whatsoever  I  have  given  you,  and  lo,  I  am  with  you  always  even  unto 
the  end  of  the  world."  What  presumption  would  it  have  been  to  so 
speak,  if  he  had  been  merely  human? 

These  professors  shy  at  the  teachings  of  St.  John,  although  his 
gospel  has  been  called  the  most  influential  book  known  to  the  literature 
of  the  world,  a  book,  by  the  way,  which  is  replete  with  testimonies 
pertaining  to  the  divinity  of  Jesus.   Let  me  quote  a  few  of  these : 

"I  and  the  Father  that  sent  me." 

"Ye  neither  know  me  nor  my  Father." 

"That  which  I  have  seen  with  my  Father." 

"He  that  hath  seen  me  hath  seen  the  Father." 

"I  am  the  Light  and  the  Life  of  the  world." 

"I  came  forth  from  the  Father,  and  have  come  into  the  world." 

"The  glory  which  I  had  with  thee  before  the  world  was." 

"The  Word  was  made  flesh." 

"In  whom  dwell  all  the  fulness  of  the  Godhead  bodily." 
Many  more  expressions  along  this  line,  are  found  which  time  will 
not  permit  to  call  your  attention  to.    But  there  is  much,  particularly 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


167 


in  the  writings  of  John,  in  support  of  his  claim  of  Messiahship,  which 
some  modern  writers,  in  the  sterility  of  their  learning,  seem  to  take 
pleasure  in  denying  There  is  a  type  of  mentality  which  seems  to 
think  it  an  indication  of  freedom  and  independence  on  their  part  to 
deny  the  most  vital  and  well  established  truths. 

The  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  Jesus  by  the  Prophets  of  old, 
you  are  no  doubt  familiar  with.  The  expression  of  Isaiah  taken  from 
the  ninth  chapter  of  this  prophet:  "For  unto  you  a  child  is  born,  unto 
us  a  Son  is  given,  and  the  government  shall  rest  upon  his  shoulders, 
and  he  shall  be  called  Wonderful,  Counsellor,  the  Mighty  God,  the 
Everlasting  Father,  the  Prince  of  Peace." 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  cherish  this  precious  testimony  which 
he  has  given  unto  us  of  the  Prince  of  Peace,  this  Mighty  God,  our 
Savior  and  Redeemer,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen, 
i 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

This  conference  has  been  one  of  joy  and  pleasure  to  me,  and  I 
have  listened  with  appreciation  to  the  doctrines,  teachings  and 
instructions  of  my  brethren.  These  meetings  give  us  all  new  life, 
new  vigor,  a  new  outlook,  new  thoughts  and  new  resolves ;  and  I 
believe  that  we  shall  go  home  from  this  conference  filled  with  the 
bread  of  life. 

When  President  Grant  announced  the  great  missionary  move- 
ment and  the  call  for  one  thousand  mature  men  to  go  on  missions 
for  short  terms,  it  filled  my  soul  with  gladness.  I  saw  these  vigor- 
ous, mature  men,  able  defenders  of  the  gospel,  accepting  this  call, 
coming  to  Salt  Lake,  being  set  apart  under  the  hands  of  the  serv- 
ants of  God ;  I  saw  them  arriving  in  the  various  fields  of  labor,  re- 
ceiving counsel  and  advice  from  their  mission  presidents ;  then 
going  forth  to  the  villages,  hamlets,  and  the  great  cities  of  this  land, 
and  perhaps  of  other  countries,  preaching  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  crying  repentance  to  all  people. 

I  saw  these  devoted  men,  and  perhaps  women,  knocking  at 
the  doors  of  the  people's  homes,  offering  tracts,  soliciting  entertain- 
ment, sometimes  being  rebuffed  and  sometimes  welcomed ;  deliver- 
ing tracts  which  convey  the  gospel's  message  to  those  who  will 
open  their  doors.  I  saw  them  on  the  street  corners,  addressing  ever- 
shifting  and  changing  congregations ;  in  the  civic  centers,  in  the 
parks,  upon  steps  of  public  buildings ;  and,  in  fact,  wherever  the 
police  will  permit  them  to  preach.  I  saw  these  men,  happy  and 
thankful  for  the  privilege  of  raising  their  warning  voices  once  more 
to  the  inhabitants  of  this  and  other  lands. 

As  a  result  of  this  preaching  and  tracting  the  hearts  of  some 
will  be  truly  touched  by  the  message  of  the  gospel ;  some  will  stop 
and  listen ;  others  will  invite  the  missionaries  to  call ;  still  others 
will  hear  the  message  through  their  friends.   A  few  words  will  sink 


168 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


into  the  hearts  of  some  of  the  listeners,  and  they  will  want  to  hear 
something  more  of  this  work.  They  will  attend  the  little  meeting 
places,  sometimes  a  rented  hall,  sometimes  a  small  chapel  owned 
by  the  Church,  and  now  and  again  a  nice  building. 

This  work  has  been  done  by  the  bearers  of  the  gospel  thou- 
sands of  times.  Men  will  say  to  themselves  and  to  one  another : 
What  shall  we  do?  They  will  hear  the  message  through  the  serv- 
ants of  the  Lord,  and  some  few  will  accept  it  and  become  valiant 
defenders  of  the  truth  in  their  own  communities.  They  will  re- 
ceive the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  and  this  will  drive 
out  of  their  minds,  if  they  will  but  permit  it,  all  sectarianism  and 
dogmatism  from  which  the  world  is  suffering  today. 

Then  I  thought:  It  is  probable  that  under  the  inspiration  of 
the  Lord  our  brethren  have  called  this  multitude  of  men  to  labor 
on  these  short  missions  so  that  our  great  nation  may  be  once  more 
warned.  'During  the  last  few  years  there  has  been  a  slipping  away 
from  religious  ideals  and  spirituality  in  the  missions.  Great  con- 
troversies have  been  waging.  Only  recently  this  happened  in  Ten- 
nessee, and  prominent  men  have  shaken  the  people's  faith  in  a  liv- 
ing God  and  in  the  fundamental  teachings  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
and  his  atonement  and  the  resurrection.  Is  the  Lord  sending  out 
our  brethren  to  warn  these  people  to  hold  fast  to  the  truth  and  to 
acknowledge  the  redemption  and  saving  power  of  Jesus  Christ? 

So,  in  my  opinion,  a  great  mission  will  be  accomplished.  It 
will  stand  out  as  an  epoch  in  the  history  of  this  Church  because  of 
the  mighty  effort  that  will  once  more  be  made  to  call  all  the  in- 
habitants of  this  nation  and  other  nations  to  repentance. 

I  had  in  mind  this  afternoon  to  say  a  few  words  concerning  the 
poor,  but  time  will  not  permit  me  to  express  all  my  thoughts.  In 
Section  52  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  there  is  a  statement  given 
by  the  Lord,  which  startled  me  for  a  moment  when  I  first  read  it: 
"And  remember  in  all  things  the  poor  and  the  needy,  the  sick  and 
the  afflicted,  for  he  that  doeth  not  these  things,  the  same  is  not 
my  disciple."  Is  it  possible  that  in  our  haste  and  hurry  and  in  the 
rush  of  life  we  have  not  digested  this  thought?  It  may  be  that 
some  have  said  to  themselves  that  the  poverty  and  misery  people 
suffer  is  usually  brought  upon  them  by  their  own  folly ;  but  King 
Benjamin  in  giving  his  final  message  to  the  people  of  Nephi  says 
this:  "Perhaps  thou  shalt  say:  the  man  has  brought  upon  himself 
his  misery;  therefore  I  will  stay  my  hand,  and  will  not  give  unto 
him  of  my  food,  nor  impart  unto  him  of  my  substance  that  he  may 
not  suffer,  for  his  punishments  are  just."  But  that  good  man  said 
unto  them :  "Whosoever  doeth  this,  the  same  hath  great  cause  to 
repent."  It  is  a  common  habit  for  us  to  express  ourselves  in  that 
way. 

I  will  also  quote  you  a  favorite  passage  of  Bishop  Nibley's  from 
the  writings  of  the  Apostle  James  in  the  New  Testament :  "Pure 
religion  and  undefiled  before  God  and  the  Father  is  this,  to  visit 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


169 


the  fatherless  and  widows  in  their  affliction,  and  to  keep  himself 
unspotted  from  the  world." 

Then,  our  Lord  and  Savior,  when  talking  to  the  lawyer,  made 
two  definite  propositions :  "Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with 
all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  strength,  and 
with  all  thy  mind ;  and  thy  neighbor  as  thyself." 

I  hope  we  shall  all  go  home,  thankful  to  the  Lord  for  the 
abundant  harvest,  for  the  way  the  land  has  been  blessed,  for  the 
opportunity  that  has  come  to  the  people  of  the  Lord  to  get  out  of 
debt;  and  with  all  these  blessings  we  shall  not  forget  the  poor,  the 
sick,  and  the  afflicted.  If  only  our  people  could  remember  that  even 
ten  cents  a  day  each  month  would  do  so  much  and  if  each  church 
member  would  give  this  amount,  the  bishops  would  have  in  their 
hands  each  month  $50,000.  Then  widows  "could  be  provided  with 
homes  and  some  of  the  comforts  of  life,  and  we  could  give  more 
intelligent  service  to  the  sick,  the  afflicted,  and  all  those  who  need 
our  help.   We  are  not  doing  enough  of  this. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  remember  our  responsi- 
bilities to  live  up  to  our  privileges  and  to  keep  his  commandments, 
I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

INTRODUCING  ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

If  this  were  a  picture  show  or  some  silly  thing  we  could 
laugh  at,  we  could  stand  it  for  two  hours  and  a  half  and  perhaps 
three,  but  if  we  should  run  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  over  the  time 
today  I  expect  many  of  you  would  get  up  and  go  out. 

Before  the  close  of  this  conference  I  desire  to  hear  the  testi- 
mony of  Brother  Rey  L.  Pratt.  I  desire  this  grandson  of  Parley  P. 
Pratt  who  was  one  of  the  greatest  of  all  the  great  writers  of  inspired 
hymns  in  our  Church,  and  one  of  the  great  preachers,  to  bear  testi- 
mony to  us  before  departing  upon  his  mission  to  South  America. 
And  if  there  is  anybody  who  cannot  stay  until  Brother  Pratt  gets 
through,  I  would  be  much  obliged  to  them  if  they  would  leave  now. 

ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  have  the  oppor- 
tunity this  afternoon  of  standing  before  you  here  and  bearing  my 
testimony  concerning  the  divinity  of  the  gospel  of  our  Lord  and 
Savior,  which  has  been  restored  to  this  day  and  age  in  which  we 
live.  I  am  indeed  happy  to  have  been  deemed  worthy  to  be  the 
least  of  the  three  chosen  to  go  into  the  land  of  South  America  for 
the  purpose  of  establishing  a  mission  there,  and  opening  up  in  that 
land  the  work  of  the  Lord  for  the  preaching  of  the  gospel  to  our 
Father's  children  who  reside  there.    Particularly  am  I  happy,  my 


170 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  thought  that  the  gospel  is  to  be  carried 
to  more  of  our  Father's  children  in  the  house  of  Israel,  verily  the 
Lamanite  people,  who  reside  upon  this  land  of  America;  and  my 
heart  has  been  thrilled,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  with  the  sure  and 
faithful  teachings  of  this  conference. 

I  realize  that  I  am  going  into  a  southland,  that  I  shall  pass 
over  the  tropics,  that  I  shall  go  through  the  lands  where  monkeys 
dwell,  and  I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  that  has  been  given  unto  me 
that  I  do  not  have  to  consider  them  the  cousins  that  I  am  going  to 
preach  the  gospel  to.  I  am  of  the  house  of  Israel  through  Ephraim, 
according  to  the  patriarchal  blessing  that  I  have  received,  in  which 
I  believe  implicitly.  The  people  that  we  go  to  preach  to  are  of  the 
house  of  Israel,  of  Joseph,  through  Manasseh  principally,  also  with 
a  sprinkling  of  the  blood  of  Ephraim  among  them.  They  are  our 
brethren  and  sisters,  they  are  our  blood  relatives,  they  have  an  in- 
heritance upon  this  land,  they  are  heirs  to  the  gospel.  The  Lord 
has  foretold  in  words  of  plainness  this  day  that  has  now  dawned 
upon  us,  and  for  which  I  do  most  truly  thank  him. 

If  I  may  impose  upon  your  time  just  a  moment  or  two  I  should 
like  to  read  from  the  Book  of  Mormon  a  number  of  predictions  that 
to  me  seem  to  be  fulfilled  now.  Of  course,  the  work  is  all  before 
us,  and  I  do  not  undertake  this  work  with  my  brethren  in  the 
thought  that  we  are  going  down  there  to  have  particularly  a  good 
time,  in  the  sense  in  which  many  deem  it  a  good  time,  but  I  realize 
fully  the  responsibility  of  our  call  and  the  enormous  amount  of 
work  that  it  will  take  to  bring  about  the  prophecies  of  the  Lord  that 
I  should  like  to  refer  to  here  this  afternoon.  If  you  will  turn  to  the 
first  chapter  of  the  2nd  Book  of  Nephi,  you  will  find  recorded  the 
following : 

"And  now  it  came  to  pass  that  after  I,  Nephi,  had  made  an  end  of 
teaching  my  brethren,  our  father,  Lehi,  also  spake  many  things  unto  them — 
how  great  things  the  Lord  had  done  for  them  in  bringing  them  out  of  the 
land  of  Jerusalem. 

"And  he  spake  unto  them  concerning  their  rebellions  upon  the  waters, 
and  the  mercies  of  God  in  sparing  their  lives,  that  they  were  not  swallowed 
up  in  the  sea. 

"And  he  also  spake  unto  them  concerning  the  land  of  promise,  which 
they  had  obtained — how  merciful  the  Lord  had  been  in  warning  us  that 
we  should  flee  out  of  the  land  of  Jerusalem. 

"For,  behold,  said  he,  I  have  seen  a  vision,  in  which  I  know  that 
Jerusalem  is  destroyed;  and  had  we  remained  in  Jerusalem  we  should  also 
have  perished. 

"But,  said  he,  notwithstanding  our  afflictions,  we  have  obtained  a  land 
of  promise,  a  land  which  is  choice  above  all  other  lands;  a  land  which  the 
Lord  God  hath  covenanted  with  me  should  be  a  land  for  the  inheritance 
of  my  seed.  Yea,  the  Lord  hath  covenanted  this  land  unto  me,  and  to  my 
children  forever,  and  also  all  those  who  should  be  led  out  of  other  countries 
by  the  hand  of  the  Lord. 

"Wherefore,  I  Lehi,  prophesy  according  to  the  workings  of  the  Spirit 
which  is  in  me,  that  there  shall  none  come  into  this  land  save  they  shall 
be  brought  by  the  hand  of  the  Lord. 

"Wherefore,  this  land  is  concecrated  unto  him  whom  he  shall  bring.  And 
if  it  so  be  that  they  shall  serve  him  according  to  the  commandments  which 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


171 


he  hath  given,  it  shall  be  a  land  of  liberty  unto  them;  wherefore,  they  shall 
never  be  brought  down  into  captivity;  if  so,  it  shall  be  because  of  iniquity; 
for  if  iniquity  shall  abound  cursed  shall  be  the  land  for  their  sakes,  but  unto 
the  righteous  it  shall  be  blessed  forever. 

"And  behold,  it  is  wisdom  that  this  land  should  be  kept  as  yet  from  the 
knowledge  of  other  nations;  for  behold,  many  nations  would  overrun  the 
land,  that  there  would  be  no  place  for  an  inheritance. 

"Wherefore,  I  Lehi,  have  obtained  a  promise,  that  inasmuch  as  those 
whom  the  Lord  God  shall  bring  out  of  the  land  of  Jerusalem  shall  keep  his 
commandments,  they  shall  prosper  upon  the  face  of  this  land,  and  they 
shall  be  kept  from  all  other  nations,  that  they  may  possess  this  land  unto 
themselves.  And  if  it  so  be  that  they  shall  keep  his  commandments  they 
shall  be  blessed  upon  the  face  of  this  land,  and  there  shall  be  none  to  molest 
them,  nor  to  take  awa}r  the  land  of  their  inheritance  and  they  shall  dwell 
safely  forever. 

"But  behold,  when  the  time  cometh  that  they  shall  dwindle  in  unbelief, 
after  they  have  received  so  great  blessings  from  the  hand  of  the  Lord — 
having  a  knowledge  of  the  creation  of  the  earth,  and  all  men,  knowing  the 
great  and  marvelous  works  of  the  Lord  from  the  creation  of  the  world; 
having  power  given  them  to  do  all  things  by  faith;  having  all  the  command- 
ments from  the  beginning,  and  having  been  brought  by  his  infinite  goodness 
into  this  precious  land  of  promise — behold,  I  say,  if  the  day  shall  come 
that  they  will  reject  the  Holy  One  of  Israel,  the  true  Messiah,  their  Re- 
deemer of  their  God,  behold,  the  judgments  of  him  that  is  just  shall  rest 
upon  them. 

"Yea,  he  will  bring  other  nations  unto  them,  and  he  will  give  unto  them 
power,  and  he  will  take  away  from  them  the  lands  of  their  possessions, 
and  he  will  cause  them  to  be  scattered  and  smitten." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  Lehi  foresaw  what  would  be  the  condi- 
tion among  his  children  if  they  would  live  in  harmony  with  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord  that  he  had  received  for  his  children 
upon  this  land — that  it  should  always  be  for  them  a  land  of  security, 
the  land  of  their  inheritance,  and  that  they  should  possess  it  un- 
molested by  other  people.  But  when  they  should  turn  away  the  re- 
verse would  be  the  case.  History  tells  us  that  they  turned  away 
from  the  God  of  the  land.  They  rejected  Jesus  Christ  after  his 
kingdom  had  been  set  up  here,  and  behold  the  curse  of  the  Lord 
has  rested  upon  the  land.  I  was  in  company  with  Elder  Richard  R. 
Lyman  and  Dr.  George  W.  Middleton,  only  recently  traversing  the 
parts  of  Mexico  where  many  important  ruined  cities  lie,  and  it  is 
marvelous  to  note  the  wonderful  civilization  that  has  once  lived 
there,  and  it  is  marvelous  to  note  how  completely  even  the  memory 
of  them  has  been  wiped  out,  and  they  are  nowhere  to  be  found. 
Were  it  not  for  the  sacred  volume  of  history  from  which  I  have 
read  there  would  be  no  answer  to  the  great  riddle  of  those  wonder- 
ful cities  that  were  builded  with  such  wonderful  architecture  in 
that  land.  Huge  stones  that  we  measured  and  calculated  would 
weigh  more  than  twenty  tons,  fitted  closely  together,  having  been 
brought  a  distance  of  three  miles,  and  the  joints  fitted  without 
mortar.  So  close  are  they  fitted  that  the  pen  knife  which  we  car- 
ried with  us  could  not  be  inserted  between  the  joints.  This  be- 
speaks a  people  who  were  mighty.  It  bespeaks  also  the  fulfilment 
of  the  word  of  the  Lord  in  regard  to  the  destruction  of  this  people. 
Prophets  of  that  time,  particularly  Nephi  the  son  of  Lehi,  foresaw 


172 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


all  these  things  as  a  consequence  of  neglect  among  the  people. 
What  greater  fulfilment  of  the  word  of  the  Lord  could  we  desire? 

These  prophets  stated  that  they  should  be  scattered  and 
smitten  by  other  people.  Other  prophecies  in  the  book  state  that 
it  should  be  the  Gentile  nations  that  should  come  in  among  them, 
that  they  should  reduce  this  people  to  a  remnant.  The  descendants 
of  the  builders  of  those  mighty  cities,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  have 
verily  been  reduced  to  a  remnant.  Statistics  given  out  by  Jauregue, 
a  statistician  and  historian  of  Guatemala,  are  to  the  effect  that  of 
all  the  native  tribes  south  of  the  Rio  Grande,  since  the  coming  of 
the  Spaniards  they  have  been  reduced. nine-tenths.  They  have  be- 
come a  hiss  and  a  by-word,  they  have  become  the  hewers  of  wood 
and  drawers  of  water  for  the  Gentile  oppressors  who  have  come  in 
amongst  them. 

But  I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  prophecy  that  I 
shall  not  take  time  to  read,  but  merely  to  refer  to,  the  word  of  the 
Lord  that  came  to  Nephi ;  you  will  find  it  recorded  in  I  Nephi  13, 
wherein  he  saw  all  these  terrible  things  that  should  befall  his  peo- 
ple, but  he  said  that  he  saw  that  in  the  providences  of  the  Lord 
he  would  not  permit  the  Gentile  nations  to  utterly  overcome  and 
wipe  out  the  remnant  of  his  seed,  that  should  be  among  his  brethren 
the  Lamanites.  Neither  would  he  permit  them  to  utterly  overcome 
the  seed  of  his  brethren  and  wipe  them  out  from  the  face  of  the 
land.  If  you  will  turn  then  to  II  Nephi  30,  you  will  find  wherein 
the  Lord  said  that  there  should  be  a  church  established  among  the 
Gentile  people,  and  a  book  should  come  forth.  Many  among  the 
Gentiles  should  believe  the  words  of  the  Book  that  was  to  be  writ- 
ten, and  they  should  carry  it  back  to  the  descendants  of  those  who 
wrote  it,  for  their  redepmtion,  for  it  should  contain  the  fulness  of 
the  Everlasting  Gospel,  and  it  should  be  preached  among  the 
descendants  of  those  who  wrote  the  book,  and  not  many  genera- 
tions should  pass  away  save  they  should  become  a  white  and  a  de- 
lightsome people  again. 

Then  if  you  will  turn  to  III  Nephi  21,  you  will  find  recorded 
there  the  time  when  we  might  look  for  the  beginning  of  this  won- 
derful work  of  restoration  and  redemption  among  that  people  who 
have  been  cursed  of  the  Lord,  and  who  have  suffered  so  much  and 
so  long.  Only  those  who  have  become  intimately  associated  with 
them,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  have  been  touched  by  the  ages 
of  sorrow  that  they  have  wallowed  through,  know  how  they  have 
suffered.  And  the  Lord  said  that  when  these  things  should  begin 
to  come  forth  unto  the  seed  of  Lehi  from  the  Gentiles  to  whom 
these  things  should  be  committed,  and  the  seed  of  Lehi  should 
begin  to  believe,  then  the  Church,  then  the  world,  then  all  men 
might  know  that  the  Lord  had  set  his  hand  to  establish  his  work 
among  that  people,  and  to  bring  to  pass  his  promises,  and  the  great 
redemption  that  he  had  prepared  for  that  people. 

I  bear  you  my  witness,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  this  afternoon 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


173 


in  all  solemnity,  that  I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and 
for  nineteen  years  have  I  labored  in  the  land  of  Mexico  and  we 
have  hundreds  and  thousands  of  valiant,  true,  faithful  Latter-day 
Saints  who  believe  the  message  of  the  gospel  as  it  has  been  re- 
stored. They  have  not  only  begun  to  receive  it,  but  they  are  now 
receiving  it  in  considerable  number.  I  wish  to  call  your  attention 
to  the  fact  that  so  far  this  year  already  in  the  Mexican  mission 
many  pure-blooded  Lamanites  have  been  baptized.  Yes,  even  more 
than  were  baptized  during  the  ministration  of  Moses  Thatcher,  as 
president  of  the  Mexican  mission,  with  those  who  succeeded  him; 
namely,  August  Wilson,  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Heleman  Pratt,  Horace 
H.  Cummings,  and  Henry  Eyring.  More  have  been  baptized  this 
year  than  were  baptized  during  the  ministry  of  all  those  men. 

So  I  have  faith,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  time  has  come, 
and  I  feel  that  our  leader,  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  has 
made  no  mistake  in  opening  up  the  work  in  that  land.  I  hope  to 
play  my  part  well.  I  have  no  desire  other  than  to  serve  God  by 
serving  his  children  who  need  my  services  in  that  land  or  in  any 
other  land.  I  have  dedicated  my  life  to  this  work,  I  have  given  all 
upon  the  altar,  and  I  have  had  to  make  sacrifices.  As  President 
Ivins  said  last  night,  we  labor  and  we  do  sacrifice,  and  I  have  had  it 
brought  home  to  me  that  the  Lord  sometimes  takes  us  at  our  word 
when  we  say  we  are  willing  to  make  sacrifices.  I  have  cast  my 
lot  in  that  foreign  land  to  sacrifice  for  this  work,  and  I  wish  to 
continue  faithful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  wish  to  go  with  the 
faith  and  the  prayers  and  the  good  will  of  my  brethren.  I  know,  as 
I  stated  in  the  beginning,  that  I  only  go  as  a  helper.  I  am  con- 
tented, I  am  proud,  I  am  willing  to  go  as  an  assistant  in  this  great 
work  of  the  Lord  in  that  land.  Oh,  how  my  heart  rejoices  to  think, 
as  I  picture  now  those  great  buildings  that  we  visited  the  other  day, 
that  those  who  built  them  might  now  be  smiling,  they  might  now 
be  rejoicing  in  the  fact  that  God  has  moved  upon  his  servants  to 
call  some  others  of  his  servants  to  go  and  bring  the  truth  to  their 
descendants,  to  call  them  out  of  their  lethargy,  out  of  their  super- 
stitions, out  of  the  traditions  through  which  they  have  wallowed 
all  these  generations,  that  there  might  come  to  them  that  faith,  the 
greatest  thing  in  all  the  world,  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  upon 
which  this  work  is  builded,  that  it  may  be  kindled  in  their  hearts 
and  burst  into  a  flame,  that  they  may  become  workers  of  righteous- 
ness. 

I  rejoice  in  this  great  work.  I  pray  for  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord  to  be  upon  the  Saints  at  home  and  to  be  upon  us  who  shall 
go  so  far  away.  I  have  brethren  come  to  me  and  congratulate  me 
upon  my  call,  which  I  accept  gladly,  and  they  have  said:  "I  wish 
that  I  could  go.  I  wish  I  were  numbered  among  those  who  are 
going  to  that  land."  Let  me  give  you  just  one  little  hint.  If  you 
really  and  truly  mean  it,  prepare  yourselves  for  the  work,  for  I 
think  I  can  see,  as  this  work  begins  to  open  up,  the  necessity  for 


174 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  calling,  not  of  one  thousand  men,  but  of  ten  times  one  thou- 
sand men,  to  reach  all  of  our  Father's  children  who  yet  need  the 
blessings  of  the  gospel.  Prepare  yourselves  by  study.  Prepare 
yourselves  by  getting  out  of  debt.  Prepare  yourselves  by  shaping 
your  financial  affairs  so  that  when  the  time  comes  you  can  answer, 
''Aye,  Lord,  I  am  ready,  take  me,  and  do  with  me  as  thou  wilt,  in 
the  consummation  of  thy  great  work  among  thy  children  here  upon 
the  earth." 

May  the  Lord  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  bless  us 
all  in  his  service.  My  testimony  to  you  is  that  God  lives,  that  I 
know  he  lives,  and  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son,  and  that  I,  even  I, 
in  company  with  all  of  you,  am  made  in  his  image  and  in  his  like- 
ness. Oh,  how  I  rejoice  to  know  these  things ;  oh,  how  I  desire  to 
keep  alive  in  myself  the  faith  that  I  have  in  Him,  and  how  I  an- 
guish and  how  I  grieve  when  I  think  of  the  possibility  of  that  faith 
being  destroyed  in  my  children  whom  I  am  obliged  to  leave  to  the 
mercies  of  the  schools  of  the  age,  the  Church  schools  and  otherwise, 
and  know  that  there  are  conditions  and  that  there  are  men  who, 
if  it  were  possible,  are  anxious  to  destroy  that  faith  in  my  children. 
I  love  them  as  I  love  my  life,  but  more  than  anything  else,  I  desire 
that  they  shall  keep  alive  the  faith  that  is  the  foundation  of  eternal 
life,  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I  bear  you  this  testimony  and 
invoke  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  upon  us  all,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

TESTIMONY  OF  MILANDO  PRATT 

"President  Heber  J.  Grant,  Beloved  President:  My  bosom  has  swelled 
with  exceeding  joy  in  listening  to  the  most  interesting  conference  services 
over  the  radio,  from  my  bedroom,  where  I  have  spent  most  of  the  time 
for  the  past  nearly  ten  years,  through  a  severe  operation,  followed  by  a 
prolonged,  painful  illness.  I  have  heard  distinctly  all  the  tabernacle  serv- 
ices, about  three  miles  distant  from  my  home.  I  am  quite  sure  all  the 
speakers  were  greatly  inspired.    Your  brother  in  the  Gospel, 

"MILANDO  PRATT." 

Milando  Pratt  is  a  cousin  of  our  last  speaker,  and  a  son  of 
Orson  Pratt  who  was  one  of  the  greatest  writers  and  defenders  of 
the  truth  that  the  Church  has  ever  had. 

Brother  Roberts  reminds  me  that  way  in  the  50's  the  grand- 
father of  Brother  Rey  L.  Pratt,  namely,  Parley  P.  Pratt,  first  car- 
ried the  gospel  to  the  land  of  Chile,  in  South  America. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  BARLOW  DEAD 

I  overlooked  announcing  that  Brother  Joseph  Barlow,  coun- 
selor to  the  President  of  the  Raft  River  stake,  has  passed  away 
since  our  last  conference.    We  extend  to  the  family  our  sympathy. 

MISSIONS  ESTABLISHED  SINCE  LAST  CONFERENCE 

There  have  been  established  since  our  last  conference  the 
North  Central  States  mission,  with  John  G.  Allred  as  President; 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  }.  GRANT 


175 


and  the  German-Austrian  mission,  with  Elder  Fred  Tadje  as  Presi- 
dent, formerly  president  of  the  Swiss  and  German  mission. 

NEW  PRESIDENTS  OF  MISSIONS 

Six  presidents  of  missions  have  been  appointed  as  follows  since 
last  conference :  J.  Howard  Jenkins  as  president  of  the  N«w  Zea- 
land mission ;  Herbert  B.  Foulger,  acting  president  of  the  Tahitian 
mission;  John  H.  Anderson,  president  of  the  Swedish  mission; 
Hugh  J.  Cannon,  president  of  the  Swiss  and  German  mission ;  and 
Ernest  C.  Rossiter,  president  of  the  French  mission. 

MISSION  PRESIDENTS  RELEASED 

Mission  presidents  released  since  our  last  conference :  Angus 
T.  Wright,  New  Zealand  mission ;  Ole  B.  Peterson,  Tahitian  mis- 
sion ;  Hugo  D.  E.  Peterson,  Swedish  mission ;  Russell  H.  Blood, 
French  mission.  All  of  these  released  mission  presidents  have  our 
love  and  blessing  and  full  confidence,  and  also  those  who  have  been 
appointed. 

ABSENT 

There  have  been  absent  from  this  conference,  as  you  know, 
Elder  Reed  Smoot,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  in  Washington, 
and  Elder  James  E.  Talmage,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  who 
is  presiding  over  the  European  mission.  The  reports  from  Brother 
Talmage  are  very  encouraging  and  very  satisfactory,  and  he  is 
thoroughly  enjoying  his  labors.  The  newspapers  keep  us  well 
posted  on  the  very  wonderful  and  magnificent  labors  that  Senator 
Reed  Smoot  is"  performing  in  Washington.  These  brethren  have 
our  love  and  confidence  and  constant  prayers  for  their  success. 

APPRECIATION   AND   GRATITUDE  EXPRESSED 

I  feel  to  say  on  behalf  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  that  we 
are  very  grateful  for  the  wonderful  outpouring  of  the  people  during 
this  conference.  We  are  grateful  for  the  light  and  inspiration  of 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  accompanying  those  who  have  spoken  to  us, 
and  we  give  to  the  Saints  the  love  and  blessing  of  all  of  the  Gen- 
eral Authorities  of  the  Church,  and  we  echo  the  sentiment  that 
has  been  uttered  here,  time  and  again  during  this  conference, 
in  the  opening  and  closing  prayers  and  in  some  of  the  remarks,  that 
,  the  inspiration  and  spirit  of  this  conference  may  be  carried  by  the 
people  who  have  been  here  to  the  various  stakes  of  Zion. 

May  God  bless  you  one  and  all.  May  each  and  every  one  of  us 
who  have  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are 
engaged,  so  order  our  lives  that  those  who  know  not  the  truth, 
seeing  our  diligence,  our  faith,  our  humility,  and  our  desire  to 
serve  God,  may  be  led  to  investigate  the  truth  that  we  have  to  bear 
to  them.  This  is  my  prayer  and  desire,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


176 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


A  sacred  solo  was  sung  by  Walter  Wallace,  "Lift  up  thy  heart." 
The  congregation  sang  the  Doxology. 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  John  M.  White,  presi- 
dent of  the  Yellowstone  stake. 

Conference  was  adjourned  for  six  months. 


Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing,  assisted  by 
B.  Cecil  Gates.  Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ 
were  played  by  Edward  P.  Kimball,  Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Alexander 
Schreiner  and  Frank  W.  Asper. 

Stenographic  reports  were  made  in  the  Tabernacle  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom,  assisted  by  Joseph  Anderson;  in  the  Assembly  Hall  by 
Frederick  G.  Barker.  Owing  to  no  previous  notification  being  made 
of  the  overflow  meetings  in  Barratt  Hall,  no  provision  was  made 
for  reporters  for  those  meetings,  each  speaker  furnishing  his  own 
synopsis. 

EDWARD  H.  ANDERSON 


Clerk  of  the  General  Conference 


INDEX 


Authorities  Present   

Authorities  of  the  Church,  General 

Allred,  Elder  John  G  

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J  


153 
79 
125 


1 


Missionary  Work  a  First  Great  Responsibility  of  the  Church, 
125 — Advantages  in  Missionary  Work,  12S — None  Who  are  Pre- 
pared to  Go  are  Exempt,  128— The  Responsibility  of  Caring  for 
Our  Membership,  127 — Need  of  Watchmen  on  the  Towers  of 
Zion,  127 — Let  Us  Keep  Clean  and  Free  from  the  Sins  of  the 
World,  128 — Prosperity  Should  Result  in  Salvation  to  Us  and 
Our  Children,  128— Concerning  Going  on  the  Mission  to  South 
America,  129 — Testimony,  130 — The  Destiny  of  Zion  Certain,  131. 


Who  Can  Draw  the  Line  Between  Spiritual  and  Temporal,  IS — 
Joseph  the  Prophet,  Though  Spiritual,  Had  Much  to  do  with  the 
Temporal,  16 — Brigham  Young  was  Gifted  in  Both  Spiritual  and 
Temporal  Things,  17 — The  Principle  of  Co-operation  Applies 
to  Both  Religion  and  Business,  17 — Co-operation  in  Farming  vs. 
Individual  Effort,  18. 

Evans,  Elder  Abel  John   41 

General  Authorities  Present   1 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  153 

General  Officers  of  the  Church  153 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 

A  First  Place  Poem,  2 — A  Tribute  to  President  Penrose,  2 — 
William  Jennings  Bryan's  Visit  to  Salt  Lake  City,  3 — Present 
at  Historical  Events,  4 — Visits  Many  Scenic  Wonders,  5 — The 
Great  Mission  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  6 — A  Central  Thought 
Applying  to  Us,  7 — Worth  of  Great  Souls  in  the  Sight  of  God,  8 
— Testimonies  of  Returned  Missionaries,  8 — A  Testimony  of  the 
Divinity  of  this  Work,  8. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   10 

Missionary  Calls,  10 — Opening  of  South  American  Mission,  10— 
Appeal  for  One  Man  From  Each  W'ard  for  Mission  in  the  United 
States,  10 — Men  of  Means  and  Experience  Wanted,  10. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   37 

Sympathy  Extended  to  Those  Who  Mourn,  37. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  152 

Presidency  of  the  Primary  Association  Reorganized,  152— Gen- 
eral Authorities  Officers  of  the  Church,  152. 


Ballif,  Elder  Serge  F. . . 
Bennion)  Elder  Adam  S 


37 
45 
87 
83 
131 
15 


Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  O. 
Callis,  Elder  Charles  A.. .  . 
Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q 
Clawson,  Elder  Rudger . . . 


178 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Grant,  President  Heber  J  169 

Introducing  Elder  Rey  L.  Pratt,  169. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  174 

Testimony  of  Milando  Pratt,  174 — Elder  Joseph  Barlow,  Dead, 
174 — Missions  Established  Since  Last  Conference,  174 — New 
Presidents  of  Missions,  175 — Mission  Presidents  Released,  175 — 
Absent,  175 — Appreciation  and  Gratitude  Expressed,  175. 

Hart,  Elder  Charles  H  164 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W   19 

The  Spirit  of  Prophecy  vs.  the  Wisdom  of  Man,  19 — Character 
and  Duty  of  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators,  20 — Our  Perilous 
Times  Need  the  Directing  Power  of  Prophecy,  21 — Difference 
Between  Fundamentalist  and  Modernist,  22 — Whence  Came  Man 
and  Whither  Goeth  He,  23— What  is  the  Attitude  of  the  Church 
on  This  Question,  23 — The  Revealed  Word  of  God  to  Us  Con- 
clusive Proof,  25 — The  Pre-existence  of  Jesus  Christ  the  Logical  • 
Outcome,  26— Man  Alone  Endowed  with'  Reason,  27— Listen  to 
the  Word  of  God,  No  Truth  Will  Contradict  It,  28. 

Jenson,  Elder  Andrew   51 

Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden  155 

Knight,  Elder  John  M   85 

Lillywhite,  Elder  John  P   64 

Lund,  Elder  A.  William   67 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R  121 

A  Trip  to  the  Mexican  Mission,  121— A  Tribute  to  John  J.  Mc- 
Clellan,  122. 

McMurrin,  Elder  Joseph  W   75 

McKay,  Elder  David  0  106 

Authorization  of  Christ  to  Witness  of  Him,  106 — The  Reality  of 
Christ  as  Deity,  106 — How  We  May  Know  God  and  Feel  His 
Nearness,  107 — One  Way,  to  Think,  to  Reason,  107 — Another,  to 
Accept  the  Witness  of  Men  of  Integrity,  107 — Testimony  of  Men 
Who  Saw  the  Resurrected  Christ,  108 — The  Modern  Testimony 
of  Joseph  Smith,  109 — Three  Witnesses  Corroborate  the  Vision 
of  Joseph,  110— The  Witness  of  the  Spirit,  111. 

Nibley,  President  Charles  W   11 

Endorsement  of  the  Missionary  Call,  11 — Material  Prosperity 
■and  Blessings,  11 — Caution  to  the  People  to  Wisely  Care  for 
Their  Wealth,  12 — Take  Counsel  Before  you  Invest  in  Presented 
Schemes,  12 — The  Sound  Counsel  of  Brigham  Young  Applies 
Today,  13 —  Cultivate  the  Spirit  of  Thrift  and  Saving,  13 — 
Remember  Your  Obligations  to  the  Lord,  14 — Counsel  to  the 
Young  to  Marry,  14 — Sacrifice  for  the  Glory  of  the  Lord  and 
the  Church,  14— We  Are  Engaged  in  the  Lord's  Work,  15. 

Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L  57,  169 

Quinney,  Elder  Joseph,  Jr   92 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   34 

The  Saints  Have  the  Courage  of  Their  Convictions,  34* — The 
Danger  of  Losing  Salvation,  35 — The  Standard  of  Worthiness, 
35 — An  Individual  Testimony,  36 — Our  Accepted  Principles 
Eternal,  36. 


INDEX 


179 


Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L  .116 

The  Nature  and  Value  of  Testimony,  116 — More  Than  Just  a 
Mental  Status,  117 — Great  Spiritual  Force,  117 — The  Miraculous 
Change  Wrought  by  Testimony,  117 — Testimony  Comparable  to 
Physical  Force,  118 — The  Blood  of  Israel  Susceptible  to  the  In- 
fluence of  the  Spirit,  118 — Is  Testimony  Susceptible  to  Proof? 
119 — Testimony  Produces  Good  Fruits,  119 — The  Crime  of  Plac- 
ing Obstacles  in  the  Way  of  Obtaining  Testimony,  120 — Let 
Not  the  Theories  of  Doctors  of  Philosophy  Destroy  Your 
Testimony,  120 — Testimony  Inseparably  Associated  with  Hap- 
piness and  Joy,  120. 

Roberts,  Elder  Brigham  H  143 

Shepherd,  Elder  Joseph  R   60 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert   28 

An  Important  Subject,  28 — Two  Creations  Referred  to,  29 — ■ 
The  Latter-day  Saints  Have  Another  Witness,  30 — The  Creation 
of  Light,  30 — The  Creative  Periods  ,31 — The  Earth  Prepared  to 
Bring  Forth  Grass,,  31 — The  Origin  of  Species,  31 — The  Testi- 
mony of  Modern  Revelation,  32 — A  Sure  Knowledge  of  the  Orig- 
in of  Man,  33— No  Doubt  About  Our  Ancestry,  33—  Our  Mis- 
sion, '33. 

Smith,  Elder1  Hyurm  G  140 

Smith,  Elder  David  A   98 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Ill 

To  Know  God  and  Jesus  Christ  is  Life  Eternal,  112 — The  pre- 
existence  of  Christ,  112 — The  Work  of  Christ  to  Bring  to  Pass 
Immortality  and  Eternal  Life,  112 — Life  Did  Not  Originate  on 
the  Earth,  113— The  Faithful  Promised  Eternal  Life,  113— Con- 
ditions Under  Which  Men  May  Secure  Salvation,  115. 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H   90 

Wells,  John   167 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S  160 

Whitney,  Elder  Orson  F  100 

Divine  Revelation,  100 — Man  in  the  Image  of  God,  100 — Adam's 
Antecedents,  100 — -The  Everlasting  Gospel,  101 — The  Dispensa- 
tions, 101 — Neither  Ape  Nor  Cave  Man,  102 — Bryan  Answered, 

102 —  Not  Dependent  Upon  Books,  102 — The  Science  of  Sciences, 

103 —  The  House  of  Israel,  103 — Laws,  Active  and  Obsolete,  103 
— Modern  Illustrations,  104 — The  Church  of  the  Living  God, 

104—  A  Brave  Fight,  10S— Truth  the  Eternal,  105. 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A  135 

Testimony  and  Gratitude,  135 — Thrilled  by  the  Call  for  Mission- 
aries, 135— The  World  Needs  the  Light  of  the  Church,  136— 
High  Qualities  of  Leadership  Caused  by  Perfect  Doctrine,  136 — 
A  System  of  Truth  Leading  to  Perfection,  137 — -Can  Perfection  be 
Attained?  137 — An  Aid  to  Physical  Perfection,  138 — Smoking 
A  Cause  of  Mental  Deficiency, ,138 — The  Gospel  a  Power  Through 
Which  Perfection  is  Achieved,  139 — A  Newsboy's  Proud  Answer, 
140. 

Wood,  Elder  Edward  J  *.....  72 

Wright,  Elder  Angus  T   95 

Young,  Elder  Brigham  S  :       81 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar  150 


WHENCE  THIS  GOSPEL  WE  TEACH? 


Read 

"Restoration  of  the  Gospel" 

By  OSBORNE  J.  P.  WIDTSOE 

"This  book  prepared  by  Elder  Osborne  J.  P.  Widtsoe,  dealing  with 
the  important  subject  of  the  Restoration  of  the  everlasting  Gospel, 
should  be  read  and  its  contents  carefully  considered  by  those  who  are 
seeking  after  truth.  It  treats  the  Restoration  clearly,  and  places  before 
the  people  many  things  that  have  not  been  generally  considered  here- 
tofore. It  will  be  a  means  of  strengthening  the  faith  of  the  youth  of 
Israel  and  will  impart  information  that  is  invaluable.  May  the  spirit 
of  truth  accompany  the  work  and  rest  upon  all  those  who  diligently 
read  it  with  a  desire  to  learn  of  and  profit  by  the  Restoration  of  the 
Gospel!" 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr. 
PRICE  $1.00  POSTPAID 


A  HELPFUL  BOOK  IN  THESE  TIMES  OF  CONTROVERSY 

Science  and  Belief  in  God 

By  FREDERICK  J.  PACK 

A  discussion  of  Certain  Phases  of  Science  and  Their  Bearing  Upon 
Belief  in  the  Supreme  Being. 

$2.50  POSTPAID 


The  One  Volume  Bible  Commentary 

Edited  by 

THE  REV.  J.  R.  DUMMELOW,  M.  A. 

Queen's  College,  Cambridge 

THE  COMMENTARY  ITSELF 

Line  by  line  the  Bible  is  here  commented  on — Nearly  eleven 
hundred  pages  wherein  the  student  in  a  moment  can  find  concise 
yet  comprehensive  notes  on  any  passage  in  the  Scriptures.  The 
entirely  unprejudiced  scholarship  with  which  these  comments  are 
compiled  has  received  tribute  from  critics  of  all  denominations. 
CLOTH  BOUND   $3.00 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE  SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

P.  O.  Box  1793 


Do  You  Know  what  Brigham  Young  Taught? 

The  course  for  the  Priesthood  Quorums  for  1926  will  be  the 

Discourses  of  Brigham  Young 

This  book  is  now  in  press  and  will  be  ready  about  January  1, 
1926.  Watch  for  definite  announcement,  or  send  us  your  order  now,  and 
we'll  send  the  book  C.  O.  D.  when  it  is  ready. 


ANOTHER  NEW  ONE  THAT  IS  WORTH  WHILE 

The  Fruits  of  Mormonism 

FRANKLIN  STEWART  HARRIS  and  NEWBERN  I.  BUTT 
Author  of  "Scientific  Research  and  Human  Welfare,"  etc. 

This  study  grew  out  of  a  demand  for  the  real  facts  concerning 
conditions  among  the  Mormons.  The  authors  have  had  the  best  pos- 
sible opportunity  for  making  personal  observations  in  every  part  of 
Mormondom  and  they  have  spent  a  number  of  years  gathering  material 
for  this  book.  No  attempt  has  been  made  here  to  determine  the  truth 
or  falsity  of  Mormonism  as  a  religion.  The  authors  have  been  concerned 
to  discover  the  accomplishment  and  condition  of  the  Mormons  as 
regards  social  welfare  and  as  compared  with  other  peoples  of  the 
country.  The  chief  sources  used  are  the  reports  of  the  United  States 
Census  Bureau  and  the  official  reports  of  various  state,  county,  and 
municipal  agencies. 

Successive  chapters  deal  with  the  effect  of  the  philosophy  of  Mor- 
monism on  the  lives  of  its  members;  education  and  the  development 
of  leadership  among  the  Mormons;  the  Mormons  as  colonizers;  their 
attitude  toward  the  government;  their  patriotism;  their  charities;  their 
health;  motherhood,  marriage,  and  divorce;  insanity  and  crime. 
PRICE  $1.75  POSTPAID 


WHAT  DID  JOSEPH  SMITH  KNOW  ABOUT  SCIENCE? 

Read: 

Joseph  Smith  as  Scientist 

By  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

"In  the  life  of  every  person,  who  receives  a  higher  education,  in  or 
out  of  schools,  there  is  a  time  when  there  seems  to  be  opposition  be- 
tween science  and  religion;  between  man-made  and  God-made  knowl- 
edge. The  struggle  for  reconciliation  between  the  contending  forces 
is  not  an  easy  one.  It  cuts  deep  into  the  soul  and  usually  leaves  scars 
that  ache  while  life  endures.  There  are  thousands  of  young  people  in 
the  Church  today,  and  hundreds  of  thousands  throughout  the  world,  who 
are  struggling  to  set  themselves  right  with  the  God  above  and  the  world 
about  them.  It  is  for  these  young  people,  primarily,  that  this  book  has 
been  written." 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

The  Home  of  Worth  While  Books  * 
44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  P.  O.  BOX  1793 


