^.  ^  ^  ^.  ,\£X 


ONE-HUNDRED  AND  SECOND 

ANNUAL 

CONFERENCE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  ihe  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

April  8,  9,  10,  1932 

With  a  Full  Report  of  All 
the  Discourses 


"W 


Published   by  the 

Cbnrch  «f  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


CA  cOhrilling  Story  of 

CENTURY  ONE  OF 
CHURCH  HISTORY 


H 


ERE  is  a  new  story  of  "Mormonism,"  told  with  a  com- 
pleteness and  charm  that  will  thrill  Latter-day  Saints 
with  a  pride  of  achievement  and  at  the  same  time  win 
the  admiration  of  the  critic,  be  he  friend  or  foe.  In  a  COM- 
PREHENSIVE HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH,  B.  H.  Roberts 
has  done  a  masterful  piece  of  research  and  has  set  down  the 
record  of  Century  One — 1830  to  1930 — in  a  brilliant  appraisal  of 
momentous  events.  The  reader  with  a  sentimental  interest  will 
be  fascinated  with  this  narrative  of  truth  stranger  than  fiction; 
the  reader  who  approaches  the  new  work  with  the  critical  vision 
of  the  historian  will  find  it  fair  in  statement,  authentic  in  fact, 
copious  in  detail  and  sound  in  judgment. 

A  COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH  was  writ- 
ten by  Elder  Roberts  at  the  instance  of  the  First  Presidency  of 
the  Church,  with  a  commission  to  make  it  exhaustively  complete, 
from  the  remotest  beginnings  to  the  close  of  the  Centennial 
Conference  of  April  6,  1930.  The  final  volume  ends  with  an 
account  of  the  Conference  itself,  making  the  history  technically 
inclusive  of  all  that  happened  in  Century  One  of  the  organized 
existence  of  the  Church.  Thus  it  is  a  fitting  commemoration  of 
one  hundred  years  of  struggle  and  achievement. 

This  monumental  work  is  not  to  be  confused  with  any  former 
history,  journal  or  chronicle.  Though  its  nucleus  is  the  history 
of  "Mormonism"  published  a  few  years  ago  in  AMERICANA, 
running  serially  for  six  years  through  that  magazine,  yet  this 
History  is  NEW — new  in  its  wealth  of  material,  new  in  method 
of  treatment  and  new  in  its  physical  representation  of  the  book 
maker's  art. 

Cash  Price  $30.00 

For  further  information  address  your  inquiry  to 

Deserel  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


One  Hundred  and  Second  Annual  Conference 

of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 

Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  and  Second  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  April  8,  9,  and  10, 
1932. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  sessions  of  the  Conference  were 
broadcast  by  radio  over  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City,  for  the  benefit 
of  the  general  public. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE   CHURCH   PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :    Heber  J.  Grant  and  Anthony  W.  Ivins.* 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles :  Rudger  Clawson,t  George 
Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  David  O.  McKay,  Joseph  Fielding 
Smith,  James  E.  Talmage,  Stephen  L.  Richards, J  Melvin  J.  Ballard, § 
and  Joseph  F.  Merrill. 

Presiding  Patriarch  :|| 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy :  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  J.  Golden 
Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells, ft  Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi  Edgar  Young,  and 
Antoine  R.  Ivins. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A.  Smith, 
and  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER   AUTHORITIES   PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants :  Andrew  Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  and  A. 
William  Lund. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  counselors  and  high  councilors  from 
the  various  Stakes  of  Zion. 

Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  Wnrds  and  their  counselors,  and  numerous 
high  priests,  seventies  and  elders,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education,  and  general,  stake 
and  ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations. 

Mission  Presidents :  James  H.  Moyle,  Eastern  States ;  George  S. 
Romney,  Northern  States ;  Arthur  Welling,  North  Central  States ;  Sam- 
uel O.  Bennion,  Central  States ;  Miles  L.  Jones,  East  Central  States ; 


*Charles   W.   Nibley,   Second   Counselor  in  the   First  Presidency,   died  De- 
cember 11,  1931. 

tReed  Smoot  was  absent  in  Washington,  D.  C. 

tRichard  R.  Lyman  was  absent  in  California. 

§John  A.  Widtsoe  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 

IIHyrum  G.  Smith,  Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church,  died  Feb.  4,  1932. 

ttjoseph  W.  McMurrin  was  absent,  account  of  illness. 


2  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern  States  ;  Charles  E.  Rowan,  Jr.,  Texas ;  Elias 
S.  Woodruff,  Western  States ;  William  R.  Sloan,  Northwestern  States ; 
John  V.  Bluth,  Canada ;  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Mexico ;  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley, 
California;  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  opening  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  promptly  at  10 
o'clock,  Friday  morning,  April  8th,  at  which  time  the  great  Tabernacle 
auditorium  and  galleries  were  almost  completely  filled  with  people  who 
had  assembled  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  and  called  the  Conference  to 
order  by  announcing  the  opening  hymn,  "Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day 
of  salvation,"  which  was  sung  by  the  congregation. 

Elder  Willard  Young  offered  the  opening  prayer. 

Sister  Edith  Grant  Young  sang  a  solo  "The  City  four  square." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  having  the  opportunity  of  again  meeting 
with  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  General  Conference. 

It  has  been  customary  for  many  years  in  the  opening  of  these  con- 
ferences to  give  a  statement  regarding  the  expenditures  in  the  various 
stakes  of  Zion,  and  for  other  purposes. 

The  expenditures  by  the  Church  for  the  year  1931  are  as  follows  : 

Stake  and  Ward  Purposes: 

There  has  been  returned  from  the  tithes  to  the  stakes  and 
wards  for  the  construction  of  ward  and  stake  meeting 
houses   $   545,630.69 

For  ward  maintenance  expenses 647,194.36 

For  stake  maintenance  expenses 254,025.41 

$1,446,850.46 

Education : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  of  Church  school  system.  .  $    751,200.28 

Temples : 

Expended  for  the  construction,  maintenance,  and  operation 

of  temples 201,833.50 

Charities : 

For  the  care  of  the  worthy  poor  and  other  charitable  pur- 
poses, including  hospital  treatment 224,556.38 

Missions : 

For  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  all  the  missions,  and 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  3 

for  the  erection  of  places  of  worship  and  other  build- 
ings in  the  missions  757,126.76 

Total   $3,381,567.38 

which  has  been  taken  from  the  tithes  and  other  Church 
funds  and  returned  by  the  Trustee-in-Trust  to  the 
Saints  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  the  stakes 
and  wards  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of 
Church  schools  and  Temples,  for  charities  and  mission 
activities. 

Other  Charities: 

In  addition  to  charities  paid  from  the  tithes  as  before 
named,  there  has  also  been  disbursed  the  fast  offerings, 
other  charities,  and  assistance  rendered  by  the  Relief 
Society  in  the  sum  of  $455,423.46,  which  amount, 
added  to  the  $224,556.38  paid  from  the  tithes,  makes 
the  total,  charity  assistance  rendered  by  the  Church.  .$    679,979.84 

There  has  been  collected  by  the  various  wards  of  the  Church 

and  paid  to  missionaries  to  assist  in  their  maintenance      66,783.90 

MEMBERS  SPEND  MILLION 

Undoubtedly  there  has  been  expended  by  the  people  themselves, 
in  sending  missionaries  out  into  the  world  and  taking  care  of  them 
while  there,  considerably  more  than  one  million  dollars. 

STATISTICS  AND  OTHER  DATA  COMPILED  FROM  THE  ANNUAL 
REPORTS   FOR  THE  YEAR   1931 

We  have  at  the  present  time:  Stakes  of  Zion,  104;  wards,  934; 
Independent  branches,  70 ;  Dependent  branches,  35  ;  total  wards  and 
branches  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  1,039;  missions,  30;  mission  branches 
860 ;  districts,  266. 

CHURCH   GROWTH 

Children  blessed  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  Church  in  the 

stakes  and  missions 19,804 

Children  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions 15,283 

Converts  baptized  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  stakes  and 

missions 7,596 

Number  of  long-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  December  31,  1931  1,627 
Number  of  short-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  December  31,  1931  30 
Number  of  local  missionaries  46 

Total  number  of  missionaries  on  foreign  missions 1,703 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  stakes 1,151 

Total  missionaries 2,854 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  at  the  Missionary 

Home 601 

Persons  recommended  to  the  temples  from  the  stakes 72,152 


GENERAL   CONFERENCE 


SOCIAL  STATISTICS 


Birth  rate,  29  per  thousand. 

Marriage  rate,  12.8  per  thousand. 

Death  rate,  6.6  per  thousand. 

Families  owning  their  own  homes,  65.2  per  cent. 

HOME  OWNING  URGED 

Our  records  show  that  in  years  gone  by  over  75  per  cent  of  the 
people  owned  their  own  homes.  There  is  a  spiritual  growth  always 
when  people  own  their  own  homes.  The  owning  of  a  home  creates  a 
spirit  of  loyalty  to  the  Church  and  also,  really,  to  the  government.  It  is 
illustrated  somewhat  in  an  incident  that  I  heard  regarding  a  noble- 
man in  France  who  was  very  wealthy.  His  butler,  who  drew  a  large 
salary,  attended  socialistic  meetings.  The  nobleman  noticed  that  the 
butler  had  discontinued  attending  these  meetings  and  asked  the  reason. 

Said  he:  "At  the  last  meeting  a  report  was  made  of  how  much 
per  capita  everybody  would  receive  when  all  of  the  wealth  was  ap- 
propriated and  distributed,  and  already  I  have  more  in  the  savings  bank 
than  would  come  to  me." 

It  cured  him  completely. 

CHANGES   IN   STAKE  AND  MISSION   OFFICERS   SINCE   LAST 
OCTOBER   CONFERENCE 

Stake  President  Appointed : 

John  B.  Reed  appointed  president  of  the  San  Luis  stake  to  suc- 
ceed James  P.  Jensen. 

New  Mission  Presidents : 

James  H.  Douglas  appointed  president  of  the  British  mission  to 
succeed  A.  William  Lund. 

Alonzo  A.  Hinckley  appointed  president  of  the  California  mission 
to  succeed  Joseph  W.  McMurrin. 

Clarence  H.  Tingey  appointed  president  of  the  Australian  mission 
to  Succeed  Leonidas  D.  Mecham,  acting-president. 

Gustave  W.  Forsberg  appointed  president  of  the  Swedish  mission 
to  succeed  Gideon  N.  Hulterstrom. 

New  Wards  Organised : 

Torrence  ward,  Los  Angeles  stake. 
Farmington  ward,  Young  stake. 
Caliente  ward,  Moapa  stake. 

New  Independent  Branches: 

Alameda  branch,  San  Francisco  stake. 
Hayward  branch,  San  Francisco  stake. 

General  Authorities  Who  Have  Passed  Away: 

Charles  W.  Nibley,  2nd  counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Hyrum  G.  Smith,  Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  5 

Bishops  Who  Have  Passed  Away : 

Adrian  Schipper,  Elmhurst  ward,  San  Francisco  stake. 
S.  J.  Lindsay,  Taylorsville  ward,  Cottonwood  stake. 
John  M.  Grow,  Middleton  ward,  Ogden  stake. 

LAUDS  THOSE  DEAD 

I  am  sure  that  those  of  us  who  had  the  opportunity  of  attending  the 
funeral  of  President  Charles  W.  Nibley  felt  very  grateful  for  the  re- 
markable spirit  that  was  present  and  for  the  very  splendid  tributes  that 
were  paid  to  him.  I  had  that  privilege  and  I  rejoice  in  the  spirit  of  the 
occasion,  and  in  the  excellent  remarks. 

I  regret  that  I  was  in  the  East  at  the  time  of  the  funeral  of  the 
Patriarch.  But  from  what  I  have  read  of  the  services  I  am  very  pleased 
indeed  with  the  tributes  paid  to  him. 

In  addition  to  these  officials  of  the  Church  whose  names  I  have  read, 
who  have  passed  away  during  the  time  since  our  last  Conference,  the 
editor  of  the  Improvement  Era,_  and  former  president  of  Liberty  stake 
of  Zion,  Brother  Hugh  J.  Cannon,  has  also  passed  away.  Brother  Can- 
non presided  over  the  Swiss  and  German  mission  many  years  ago  when 
I  was  president  of  the  European  mission. 

He  subsequently  returned  to  Germany  and  Switzerland  and  ful- 
filled a  third  mission,  he  having  been  there  originally  as  a  young  mis- 
sionary, not  presiding.  Brother  Cannon,  as  you  are  all  aware,  filled  a 
mission  with  Brother  David  O.  McKay,  taking  a  trip  around  the  world, 
visiting  all  the  missions  of  the  Church,  I  believe,  with  the  exception  of 
South  Africa.  I  rejoice  in  the  splendid  record  that  Brother  Hugh  J. 
Cannon  made  in  every  Church  position  that  he  occupied.  He  was  a  man 
of  God,  a  man  worthy  of  the  respect  and  admiration  of  all  people. 

RECEIVES  LETTER 

I  received  this  morning  a  letter  from  Brother  Robert  I.  Burton, 
president  of  Mount  Ogden  stake.    Among  other  things  he  says : 

"The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  source  of  the  greatest  comfort 
and  joy  to  me,  and  I  never  tire  of  its  message.  Attendance  at  the  Con- 
ference thrills  and  stimulates  me  more  than  I  am  able  to  tell.  I  count  it 
as  one  of  the  great  blessings  of  my  life,  that  I  have  been  permitted  to 
become  personally  acquainted  with  you  and  other  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church  and  to  labor  with  you  in  a  humble  way  in  the  great  cause 
of  our  Heavenly  Father.  I  know  of  the  cleanness  and  purity  of  your 
life,  and  I  am  filled  with  righteous  indignation  when  I  read  such  scur- 
rilous attacks  as  are  made  against  you  in  a  little  four  page  sheet  recently 
issued.  It  seems  to  me  that  something  should  be  clone  with  men  who 
send  such  slanderous  vilifications  through  the  mail." 

MALICIOUS  COMMUNICATIONS 

I  received  the  sheet  to  which  he  refers  and  it  found  its  place  in  the 
waste  basket.  I  did  not  read  a  word  of  it.  When  men  have  so  lived 
that  they  are  unworthy  to  be  in  the  Church  and  are  cast  out,  they  are 
wasting  their  time  sending  me  printed  matter  or  written  matter.     The 


6  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

waste  basket  is  large  and  capable  of  holding  all  such  communications. 
It  is  a  little  disappointing  in  one  sense  not  to  take  action  against  pre- 
meditated falsifiers. 

I  am  tempted  to  ask  the  government  to  prosecute  the  people  who 
use  the  mails  to  circulate  malicious  falsehoods.  But  there  is  something 
about  the  fact  that  when  you  handle  a  smoky,  sooty  stove-pipe  you  get 
your  hands  soiled,  and  it  is  a  question  whether  such  lies  are  worthy  of 
any  consideration. 

DENIES  CHARGES 

In  all  my  travels  I  have  never  paid  any  attention  to  a  certain  Lulu 
Shepherd,  perhaps  the  greatest  female  liar  who  ever  drew  the  breath  of 
life.  I  cannot  help  but  wish  that  some  of  her  falsehoods  were  true.  In 
a  synopsis  of  one  of  her  lectures  in  Brooklyn,  she  is  reported  to  have 
said  I  owned  Union  Pacific  and  other  railroad  preferred  stocks  and 
bonds  amounting  to  one  hundred  million  dollars,  and  I  did  not  have  a 
dollar  of  such  securities.  I  could  wish' I  had  the  millions  of  dollars' 
worth  of  stocks  and  bonds  for  which  she  gave  me  credit.  In  this  lecture 
she  is  reported  to  have  named  nine  states  of  the  Union  that  I  controlled 
politically,  and  to  have  said  that  no  man  could  be  the  president  of  the 
United  States  without  my  consent.  The  states  as  I  remember  were 
Colorado,  Utah,  Idaho,  Montana,  Washington,  Oregon,  Arizona,  Ne- 
vada and  New  Mexico.  Instead  of  controlling  those  states  I  did  not 
know  the  names  of  the  governors  of  any  of  them  except  Idaho  and  Ari- 
zona, and  of  course  our  own  state.  And  I  do  not  know  that  I  would 
have  known  personally  the  governor  of  Idaho  if  the  president  of  the 
United  States  at  that  time — Warren  G.  Harding — had  not  introduced 
me  to  him  when  he  came  into  the  President's  car  as  I  was  riding  up  to 
Idaho  Falls  and  Pocatello — not  as  a  guest  of  the  President,  but  as  a 
guest  of  the  vice  president  and  general  manager  of  the  Oregon  Short 
Line  Railroad  company  in  his  private  car. 

"mormons"  lauded 

I  do  not  know  that  I  would  have  known  the  Governor  of  Arizona 
were  it  not  for  the  fact  that  we  had  had  a  convention  of  governors  here 
at  the  Capitol  and  Governor  Campbell  was  one  of  those  who  did  us  the 
honor  of  calling  at  our  office.  When  I  met  him  I  shook  hands  with  him 
and  said : 

"Governor,  I  heard  a  very  interesting  story  regarding  a  statement 
made  by  your  predecessor.  It  was  that  among  the  best  of  the  citizens  of 
Arizona  in  early  days  were  the  'Mormon'  pioneers,  and  that  in  one  par- 
ticular the  'Mormons'  were  being  robbed  out  of  a  share  of  the  public 
funds  of  Arizona.  They  were  losing  from  twenty-five  hundred  to  three 
thousand  per  cent  of  their  share  of  the  criminal  taxes ;  as  they  were  en- 
titled to  have,  in  proportion  to  their  number,  twenty-five  or  thirty  in- 
mates in  the  state  penitentiary,  and  had  but  one.  When  I  went  to  Ari- 
zona I  mentioned  this  fact  in  a  meeting  in  St.  Johns,  and  the  District 
Judge  arose  and  said :  'That  one  has  since  been  pardoned.'  " 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.   GRANT  7 

The  Governor  smiled  and  said :  "Mr.  Grant,  that  is  correct.  He 
was  pardoned." 

INTEGRITY  PLEASES 

I  rejoice  in  the  integrity  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  I  rejoice  in  the 
absolute  honesty  of  the  men  who  have  held  positions  as  the  General 
Authorities  in  this  Church,  the  falsehoods  of  any  human  being  to  the 
contrary  notwithstanding. 

I  rejoice  in  the  fact  that  when  I  was  in  England  I  carried  a  letter 
from  non-"Mormon"  bankers  in  Salt  Lake  City  vouching  for  me  as  a 
gentleman  of  unquestioned  integrity  and  honesty,  and  from  bankers  in 
San  Francisco,  Chicago  and  New  York,  containing  the  same  kind  of 
recommendation.  I  remember  calling  on  a  newspaper  that  had  published 
seven  to  ten  columns,  I  am  sure,  of  vile  misrepresentations  about  us, 
carrying  with  me  a  letter  of  introduction  from  the  shipping  firm  with 
whom  we  had  done  business  for  over  sixty  years,  not  only  vouching  for 
my  honesty  and  integrity,  but  for  that  of  every  president  of  the  Euro- 
pean mission  during  that  period.  And  yet  the  assistant  editor  of  the 
paper  positively  refused  to  publish  one  word  of  refutation.  I  pleaded 
with  him  to  no  avail. 

ANSWERS   EDITOR 

I  walked  to  the  door,  turned  and  said : 

"By-the-way,  my  letter  was  not  to  you.  It  was  to  the  editor.  The 
boy  who  came  down  stairs  announced  that  the  editor  was  absent  but 
that  the  assistant  editor,  Mr.  Robinson,  would  receive  me.  Is  your  name 
Robinson?" 

"Yes." 

"Do  you  know  Phil  Robinson?" 

"Why  everybody  knows  Phil  Robinson." 

I  said :  "Was  he  the  correspondent  of  the  London  Daily  Tele- 
graph during  the  Boer  War,  one  of  the  two  greatest  [and  I  emphasized 
"greatest"  because  his  paper  was  not  one  of  the  two]  newspapers  in 
Great  Britain?" 

"He  was." 

"And  would  you  believe  anything  that  Phil  Robinson  said?" 

"I  would." 

"Is  he  editing  the  Court  and  Societv  Journal  here  in  London?" 

"He  is." 

CHALLENGES  PROOF 

"Seeing  that  you  believe  anything  this  gentleman  says,  buy  his  book 
entitled  'Sinners  and  Saints,'  it  will  cost  you  two  shillings,  and  you  wijl 
find  that  everything  you  have  published  in  your  paper  about  the  'Mor- 
mons' is  a  lie  pure  and  simple.  Phil  Robinson  traveled  from  Idaho  in 
the  north  to  Arizona  in  the  south,  through  all  of  our  settlements,  with 
the  late  John  Henry  Smith,  and  he  met  our  people,  and  yon  will  find  if 
you  will  read  his  book  that  you  have  published  a  lot  of  falsehoods.     I 


8  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

defy  you  to  get  a  letter  of  introduction  vouching  for  the  honesty  of  any 
person  who  has  furnished  you  the  information  that  has  been  printed  in 
your  paper  against  us,  and  I  have  in  my  valise  letters  from  bankers  in 
Utah  and  from  bankers  in  New  York,  Chicago  and  San  Francisco, 
vouching  for  my  honesty,  and  I  brand  your  publication  as  false." 

"Well,"  he  said,  "you  surprise  me,  that  Phil  Robinson  would  vouch 
for  your  people." 

ASKS  FOR  HALF  COLUMN 

"Oh,"  I  said,  "you  are  not  the  first  person  that  has  been  surprised 
when  he  ran  up  against  the  'Mormon'  question." 

He  said,  "Write  us  a  half  column." 

I  said,  "Small  favors  thankfully  received;  large  ones  in  proportion. 
Seven  to  ten  columns  of  misrepresentations  and  a  half  column  of  refu- 
tation.   You  shall  have  it  within  the  next  two  hours." 

He  received  it  all  right  and  kept  it  thirty  or  sixty  days  and  returned 
it  with  the  usual  printed  slip  that  I  have  seen  very  often:  "The  editor 
regrets  that  he  cannot  find  space  for  the  enclosed  manuscript,  which  is 
returned." 

ATTITUDE  CHANGES 

What  a  change  has  come  about !  Today  reporters  attend  our  meet- 
ings in  all  parts  of  the  British  Isles  and  make  fair  reports  of  everything 
that  goes  on.  Three  whole  years  in  England  without  one  single  line  of 
refutation  in  any  newspaper  when  I  presided  there.  The  wonderful  work 
accomplished  by  Brother  Talmage,  and  that  is  being  accomplished  by 
Brother  Widtsoe,  in  getting  us  before  the  public  honestly  and  fairly,  in 
our  missions  in  Europe,  has  filled  my  heart  with  joy  and  gratitude. 

SEVENTY-FIFTH   BIRTHDAY  CELEBRATED 

It  may  not  be  out  of  place  today  for  me  to  make  a  few  remarks  that 
are  personal  in  their  nature.  I  never  expected  when  I  was  a  young  man 
to  live  to  announce  that  I  had  celebrated  my  seventy-fifth  birthday.  I 
often  said  in  my  youth  that  if  I  could  live  twenty-five  per  cent  longer 
than  my  father  who  died  when  he  was  forty,  I  would  be  perfectly  sat- 
isfied with  life,  which  would  be  until  I  was  fifty  years  of  age.  Today  I 
have  lived  fifty  per  cent  longer  than  that,  and  to  be  perfectly  frank  with 
you,  I  am  not  quite  satisfied  with  life  now,  but  would  like  to  live  a 
little  longer. 

THANKFUL  FOR  HEALTH 

I  rejoice  in  what  I  have  seen  in  the  seventy-five  years  of  my  life.  It 
may  sound  a  little  egotistical,  but  few  men  reach  the  age  of  seventy-five 
years  in  perfect  vigor  of  health  of  body  and  mind,  and  I  desire  in  this 
Conference  to  express  to  my  Heavenly  Father  and  to  the  people  com- 
posing the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  my  gratitude  for 
this  vigor  of  body  and  of  mind,  and  for  the  health  that  I  possess.  I  am 
grateful,  beyond  all  of  my  ability  to  express  my  gratitude,  for  the  pray- 
ers and  the  faith  and  the  good  will  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  9 

APPRECIATIVE  OF  LOVE  AND  CONFIDENCE  OF  SAINTS 

There  is  nothing  in  the  world,  I  am  sure,  that  a  man  should  value 
so  highly  as  the  love  of  those  with  whom  he  is  associated,  and  I  appre- 
ciate very  greatly  the  love  and  confidence  of. the  Latter-day  Saints  and 
of  the  officers  of  the  Church.  That  this  has  been  extended  to  me  fills  my 
heart  with  gratitude  beyond  all  my  ability  to  express  it,  and  the  bless- 
ings that  have  come  to  me  from  my  Heavenly  Father  and  the  honors 
that  have  come  to  me  in  being  permitted  to  stand  here  representing  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ  in  the  restored  Gospel,  fill  my  heart  to  overflowing. 

FAITH   IN  THE  GOSPEL 

I  am  grateful  beyond  expression  that  from  the  time  I  was  a  boy  of 
fifteen,  and  entered  the  office  of  a  non-member  of  the  Church — working 
for  non-members  of  the  Church  from  then  until  just  before  I  was 
twenty,  when  I  went  into  business  for  myself — I  am  grateful  that  I  have 
never  found  anything  at  home  or  abroad,  in  all  these  sixty  years,  that  has 
in  the  slightest  degree  lessened  my  faith  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

But,  on  the  contrary,  I  have  been  constantly  finding  additional  evi- 
dences of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  you  and  I  are  engaged.  This 
a'  source  of   the   keenest  gratification   to  me.        Evidences   of   the 


is 


f> 


divinity  of  the  work  have  come  to  me  from  time  to  time,  some  of  them 
very  strong. 

STRANGE  EVIDENCE 

I  have  often  mentioned  it  in  public,  that  while  I  was  being  enter- 
tained at  a  dinner  in  London  by  one  of  the  managers  of  the  great  New 
York  Life  Insurance  Company  I  met  a  gentleman  who  had  been  connect- 
ed with  the  British  Legation  in  Constantinople  and  who  had  spent  years 
in  the  Holy  Land.  He  had  been  to  America  a  number  of  times.  I  spent 
the  evening,  after  dinner,  chatting  with  him  because  of  his  remarkable  ex- 
periences and  the  interesting  things  he  had  to  say.    Finally  he  said  to  me : 

"Mr.  Grant,  do  you  know  that  I  ran  across  the  most  inexplicable 
thing  of  my  life  the  last  time  I  visited  Canada.  I  went  way  up  into 
the  northern  wilds  of  Canada,  beyond  all  civilization,  visiting  with  those 
heathen  Indians.  I  found  among  them  the  exact  pattern,  woven  in  col- 
ored beads,  of  Holy  Land  rugs,  and  in  no  other  part  of  the  world  that 
I  have  visited  have  I  seen  any  rugs  of  the  same  pattern  as  those  oriental 
rugs  in  the  Holy  Land,  and  in  some  sections  certain  patterns  have  come 
down  for  hundreds,  almost  thousands  of  years,  in  one  family.  They 
have  no  fabrics  up  among  those  Indians  with  which  to  do  weaving,  but 
they  had  the  exact  patterns,  yet  they  had  never  heard  of  Jerusalem,  and 
it  is  the  most  inexplicable  thing  of  my  life." 

I  said :  "That  is  very  easy  to  a  Mormon.  Have  you  ever  heard  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon?" 

"No." 

"I  will  send  you  a  copy.  It  is  the  Bible,  so  to  speak,  of  the  Ameri- 
can Indians,  their  sacred  history,  and  you  will  find  that  the  forefathers 


10  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

of  the  American  Indians  and  other  peoples  who  have  been  on  this  con- 
tinent came  from  Jerusalem." 

He  said:  "What!    That  explains  the  inexplicable." 
Now  that  may  not  be.  counted  by  some  as  much  of  a  straw  of  evi- 
dence, but  to  my  mind  it  is  a  very  great  evidence  regarding  the  divine 
authenticity  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

INTIMATE   WITH   BRIGHAM    YOUNG 

I  am  grateful  to  bear  witness  to  this  audience  that  from  the  time  I 
was  a  little  child  not  more  than  five,  I  am  sure,  until  the  day  of  his  death, 
when  I  was  nearly  twenty-one,  I  was  very  intimate  with  Brigham  Young  ; 
that  when  the  bell  would  ring  for  family  prayers,  quite  frequently  I 
would  run  through  our  back  lot  across  through  Brother  George  A. 
Smith's  lot  and  across  the  street,  and  kneel  down  in  President  Rrigham 
Young's  home  at  family  prayers. 

I  knew  him  intimately,  as  I  say,  from  the  time  I  was  five  or  six 
years  of  age.  I  was  born  where  the  Z.  C.  M.  I.  store  now  stands.  Fath- 
er's lot  was  165  feet  front  by  330  feet  deep,  the  lot  just  like  it  on  the 
south  was  occupied  by  Edward  Hunter,  and  a  lot  of  the  same  size  on  the 
north  was  occupied  by  Daniel  H.  Wells,  two  of  as  God-fearing,  kind, 
splendid  men  as  ever  drew  the  breath  of  life.  T  grew  up  under  their 
tutorship  to  a  certain  extent. 

RECALLS  LAST  INTERVIEW 

The  last  interview  I  had  with  Brigham  Young  was  on  the  very  day 
he  was  taken  sick.  I  met  him  coming  out  of  his  office  with  a  cape  on  his 
arm  and  I  said  : 

"President  Young,  I  was  elected  yesterday  the  assistant  cashier  of 
Zion's  Savings  Bank,  and  I  have  been  told  this  morning  that  I  must  give 
a  bond  of  twenty-five  thousand  dollars  to  vouch  for  my  honesty.  It  oc- 
curs to  me  that  it  would  be  very  appropriate  and  a  nice  thing  for  the 
president  of  the  bank  to  sign  the  bond  of  the  assistant  cashier." 

He  smiled  and  said :  "Heber,  I  have  had  a  very  strenuous  day.  I 
am  just  going  for  a  ride.  I  shall  be  glad  to  sign  the  bond.  I  do  not  see 
how  I  could  get  out  of  it  because  I  said  so  many  good  things  about  you 
in  the  directors'  meeting  yesterday,  (or  the  day  before,  I  have  forgotten 
which)  about  your  integrity  and  honesty  and  favoring  you  for  this  job; 
and  if  I  refuse  to  sign  your  bond  now,  the  directors  would  say,  'What 
did  you  say  all  those  good  things  about  him  for  if  you  are  afraid  to  sign 
his  bond?'" 

He  came  home,  was  taken  sick  and  passed  away.  I  am  sure,  from 
my  own  experience  and  all  of  the  symptoms  that  were  published  in  the 
paper,  he  died  of  appendicitis.  During  all  those  years  of  my  acquaint- 
ance with  him,  fully  fifteen,  I  learned  to  love  and  respect  him  as  a  man 
of  God,  a  man  of  great  ability. 

GREATNESS  RECOGNIZED 

I  remember  saying  to  the  vice  president  of  a  great  bank  with  hun- 
dreds of  millions  of  dollars,  that  the  day  would  come  when  Brigham 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  11 

Young  would  be  acknowledged  as  one  of  the  greatest  pioneers  and  col- 
onizers who  ever  lived. 

He  said :  "Why  say  the  day  will  come  ?  No  man  who  knows  any- 
thing of  the  accomplishments  of  Brigham  Young  but  what  could  say  the 
day  has  come." 

WANTED  LARGE  STATE 

Do  you  know  that  all  this  trouble  about  the  Hoover  dam  and  the 
division  of  water  never  would  have  come  about  if  we  had  got  all  that 
President  Young  tried  to  get. 

All  that  he  asked  for  when  he  knocked  for  admission  into  the  Union 
as  the  State  of  Deseret  was  all  of  Utah,  fully  one-half  of  Colorado,  a 
little  patch  down  in  New  Mexico  so  as  to  take  in  the  San  Juan  River,  all 
of  Arizona,  Nevada  as  far  as  the  Sierra  Nevada  Mountains,  Idaho  way 
up  into  the  north,  and  one-third  of  what  is  now  California. 

Los  Angeles .  and  that  whole  section  would  have  been  included. 
Every  drop  of  water  that  goes  into  the  Hoover  dam  would  have  been  in 
the  State  of  Deseret.  Texas  would  not  have  been  in  it  for  size.  This 
shows  the  great  capacity  of  the  man.  He  sent  scouts  into  the  various 
sections  of  the  country,  realizing  as  he  did  that  irrigation  was  what  was 
going  to  count,  through  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  in  this  country,  and 
he  arranged  to  get  all  of  the  watershed  of  the  Colorado  River. 

LAUDS  PREDECESSORS 

As  you  all  know  I  was  chosen  as  one  of  the  Apostles  during  the  ad- 
ministration of  John  Taylor,  a  God-fearing,  inspirational  man.  I  can 
vouch  absolutely  from  my  intimate  association  with  him  from  the  day 
I  was  made  an  Apostle,  two  years  after  he  became  the  president,  to  the 
day  of  his  death,  for  the  inspiration  of  the  living  God  that  came  to  him 
and  the  nobility  and  uprightness  of  his  life. 

I  can  say  the  same  of  Wilford  Woodruff  during  his  administration, 
and  of  Lorenzo  Snow.  I  can  say  the  same  thing  of  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  than  whom  I  am  sure  no  man  has  lived  more  in  the  hearts  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  from  the  days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  to  his  day  as  the 
president  of  the  Church.  I  rejoice  in  my  knowledge  of  the  integrity  of 
their  lives,  their  honesty,  and  their  devotion  to  God,  and  that  the  first  and 
foremost  thing  with  them  was  to  labor  for  the  Gospel  and  the  spread  of 
truth  upon  the  earth. 

LETTER  PLEASES 

I  rejoice  in  a  letter  that  I  received  from  the  general  manager  of  one 
of  the  greatest  life  insurance  companies  in  the  world  when  I  was  made 
an  Apostle.    He  said : 

"I  owe  an  apology,  Heber,  to  your  fourteen  associates  in  the  Presi- 
dency and  Apostles.  I  have  always  thought  they  were  a  designing  lot, 
that  they  were  getting  rich  because  of  the  religious  enthusiasm  and  the 
ignorance  of  the  people  of  your  Church,  gathering  in  their  tithes,  etc. 
But  now  that  you  are  one  of  the  fifteen,  I  apologize  to  the  other  fourteen. 
If  they  were  not  honest  and  upright  men  they  would  not  dare  invite  you 


12  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

into  their  councils,  because  if  there  were  anything  crooked  you  would 
give  the  whole  thing  away.  I  know  you  are  fundamentally  honest  from 
the  crown  of  your  head  to  the  soles  of  your  feet." 

No  truer  statement  was  ever  made  by  mortal  man  than  that  by  Josh 
Billings:  "Never  judge  a  man. by  his  relatives,  he  cannot  help  them, 
they  are  crowded  upon  him;  but  judge  him  by  the  company  he  keeps, 
because  he  picks  his  own." 

PRAISED  BY   MILLIONAIRE 

I  met  a  millionaire  on  the  street — the  late  David  Wood — the  next 
morning  after  Anthony  W.  Ivins  was  made  an  Apostle,  and  he  said : 

"Hold  on,  Grant,  don't  walk  so  fast.  I  want  to  tell  you  something. 
I  am  glad  you  are  running  your  Mormon  Church  just  to  suit  me.  If  you 
had  come  down  to  my  office  yesterday  and  said,  'Dave  Wood,  you  have 
lived  among  this  people  for  twenty-five  years ;  you  have  been  a  friend 
of  the  'Mormons'  not  only  in  the  United  States  but  in  foreign  lands ;  you 
have  spoken  well  of  them ;  you  have  a  'Mormon'  bishop  managing  your 
business  in  Idaho — now  I  have  been  told  to  come  down  here,  as  you  have 
met  the  leading  men  of  the  Church  from  Canada  on  the  north  to  Mexico 
on  the  south,  to  say  that  the  Apostles  want  to  express  their  gratitude  for 
your  friendship,  and  we  will  let  you  name  the  very  best  man  to  fill  the 
vacancy  in  the  quorum  of  Apostles,' — do  you  know,  Grant,  I  would  not 
have  batted  an  eye  or  taken  a  breath,  but  I  would  have  just  hollered, 
'Ivins.'    I  am  glad  you  are  running  your  Church  to  suit  me.    Good  day." 

REJOICES  IN  GOOD  WILL 

I  rejoice  in  the  good  will  of  those  who  know  us.  I  have  said  many 
times  that  a  man  who  so  lived  that  those  who  knew  him  best,  loved  him 
most,  and  whom  God  loved,  was  entitled  to  be  crowned  with  the  wreath 
of  success  although  he  might  die  in  poverty;  and  I  do  know  that  the 
Lord  has  seen  fit  to  love,  and  did  love  and  did  inspire  all  of  my  pre- 
decessors. 

I  am  happy  in  the  good  will  that  exists,  I  believe,  for  this  people. 
Not  only  in  the  United  States,  but  wherever  I  go  today  I  am  treated 
with  respect.  When  I  think  of  going  to  Kansas  City  some  years  ago  and 
there  speaking  before  the  Knife  and  Fork  club  which  is  claimed  to  be  the 
second  greatest  dinner  club  in  the  United  States,  and  speaking  on  the 
accomplishments  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  for  a  full  hour — the  other 
speakers,  one  of  them  the  president  of  a  great  university,  being  limited 
to  thirty  minutes — and  I  being  advertised  as  the  guest  of  the  evening, 
and  receiving  applause,  and  then  being  invited  to 'come  back  again  and 
speak  before  the  Chamber  of  Commerce  in  Kansas  City,  my  heart  is  filled 
with  gratitude.  Where  was  this?  It  was  within  ten  miles  of  Independ- 
ence, from  which  place  the  Latter-day  Saints  had  been  expelled  under  an 
exterminating  order  of  the  acting-governor  of  the  state. 

EARLY  PERSECUTIONS 

I  have  been  reading  again  lately  the  wonderful  record  of  the  Mis- 
souri persecutions  and  the  fall  of  Nanvoo,  by  Elder  Brigham  H.  Roberts, 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.   GRANT  13 

and  as  I  think  of  those  terrible  things  that  happened — imprisonment,  the 
sentence  of  death  passed  upon  the  Prophet,  the  Patriarch  and  others ;  the 
murders  at  Haun's  Mill ;  the  battle  at  Crooked  River ;  the  driving  out  of 
the  remnant  of  the  Saints  from  Nauvoo  in  the  dead  of  winter  and  their 
crossing  the  river  on  the  ice — when  I  think  of  all  these  things  that  the 
early  Saints  had  to  endure,  it  seems  to  me  that  this  depression  is  a  good 
deal  in  the  nature  of  a  flea-bite  in  comparison. 

(JUOTES  POEM 

I  see  the  time  has  expired.  You  will  pardon  me  for  being  personal, 
but  you  know  they  say  when  a  person  gets  beyond  75  years  of  age  he 
cannot  talk  about  anybody  but  himself,  and  likes  to  deal  in  reminiscences, 
that  he  has  no  thought  for  the  future.  I  want  to  quote  a  few  lines  en- 
titled "Age"  and  say  that  they  are  my  sentiments,  although  not  original 
with  me: 

"Age  is  a  quality  of  mind ; 
If  your  dreams  you've  left  behind, 

If  hope  is  cold; 
If  you  no  longer  look  ahead, 
If  your  ambitions'  fires  are  dead — 
Then  you  are  old. 

"But  if  from  life  you  take  the  best, 
And  if  in  life  you  keep  the  zest. 

If  love  you  hold ; 
No  matter  how  the  years  go  by, 
No  matter  how  the  birthdays  fly — 
You  are  not  old." 

I  do  hold  love  for  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  do  love  my  God,  and  I 
do  love  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  hope  to  accomplish  more  in  the 
next  five  years  of  my  life  than  I  have  accomplished  during  any  previous 
five  years.  May  the  Lord  help  us  one  and  all  to  be  loyal  and  true  to  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  is  my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  2 
prophet." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

In  nearly  all  of  our  Conferences  we  have  been  obliged  to  limit 
the  time  allotted  to  our  mission  presidents  to  five  or  six  minutes  each. 
We  are  going  to  start  this  Conference  by  giving  the  mission  presidents 
ten  minutes  each. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

When  our  beloved  President  was  speaking,  these  words  of  the  Lord 
came  to  me:  "And  thy  people  shall  never  be  turned  against  thee  by  the 
testimony  of  traitors."  This  is  a  continuing  promise,  fulfilled  in  the 
life  and  administration  of  every  President  of  the  Church. 

We  are  thankful  for  President  Grant.     His  seventy-five  years  have 


14  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

been  blessings  to  the  people  of  God  and  to  all  the  people  among  whom 
he  has  moved. 

One  of  the  most  comforting  and  sustaining  thoughts  and  influences 
in  our  lives  is  the  love  that  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  has  for  us.  I  believe 
that  in  these  dark  hours  of  gloom  and  trouble  he  weeps,  because  of  the 
distress  that  exists  among  the  children  of  men.  And  what  shall  separate 
us  from  the  love  of  Christ?    Shall  tribulation?    No. 

The  testimony  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  is  the  precious  heritage  of 
every  faithful  Latter-day  Saint.    How  is  this  testimony  secured? 

"This  doth  not  spring  from  earthly  soil, 

Nor  from  its  wisdom  grow; 
"Tis  not  evoked  by  student's  toil, 

Though  years  hath  crowned  with  snow." 

This  testimony  comes  through  obedience  to  the  principles  and  or- 
dinances of  the  Gospel.    The  Lord  says : 

"Therefore,  in  the  ordinances  thereof,  the  power  of  godliness  is  manifest. 
"And  without  the  ordinances  thereof,  and  the  authority  of  the  priesthood, 
the  power  of  godliness  is  not  manifest  unto  men  in  the  flesh." 

A  vision  may  grow  dim  with  the  flight  of  years,  but  the  compan- 
ionship and  testimony  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  sustaining  power  that 
forever  abides  with  the  faithful  children  of  God,  no  length  of  time  can 
dim ;  no  length  of  time  can  silence  the  voice  which  says :  "This  is  the 
way;  walk  ye  therein."  No  length  of  time  can  extinguish  the  lamp 
which  is  a  light  to  our  feet  and  a  guide  to  our  path.  The  testimony  of 
the  Spirit  is  clearest  and  strongest  when  we  live  close  to  God. 

The  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  is  the  spirit  of  revelation.  This  gift  is 
enjoyed  by  the  missionaries  in  their  fields  of  labor,  those  splendid  young 
men  and  young  women  whose  sacrifice  is  sacred  in  the  sight  of  God. 
Their  loyalty  to  God  and  the  Church  leaders  cannot  be  questioned.  It 
is  as  firm  as  the  rock  of  ages.  These  missionaries  love  their  leaders. 
They  are  guided  by  that  spirit  of  revelation  which  the  Lord  grants  unto 
them  for  guidance  in  their  own  fields  of  labor,  but  not  for  the  direction 
of  the  work  of  those  who  are  in  other  parts  of  the  vineyard. 

I  testify  unto  you  that  as  Moses  possessed  the  spirit  of  revelation 
which  enabled  him  to  bring  the  children  of  Israel  through  the  Red  Sea 
on  dry  ground,  so  the  spirit  of  revelation,  the  presence,  the  companion- 
ship, the  guidance  of  the  Holy  Ghost  is  with  our  leaders,  and  they  are 
leading  us  by  that  spirit.  If  we  will  follow  them  they  will  bring  us 
through  this  mortal  probation,  into  the  celestial  kingdom  of  God,  therein 
to  be  the  sons  and  daughters  of  our  Heavenly  Father  and  joint  heirs 
with  Jesus  Christ. 

God  bless  our  leaders.  They  are  inspired  of  God,  and  we  will  fol- 
low them,  with  our  Father's  help,  for  he  will  bless  the  man  who  sustains 
those  who  preside  over  him.  No  man  who  has  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  will  ever  be  found  criticising  the  oracles  of  God,  entertaining  a 
spirit  of  rebellion  against  them,  or  refusing  to  follow  in  their  footsteps. 

This  is  my  testimony,  and  I  bear  it  in  the  fear  of  God  and  in  hu- 
mility of  soul,  and  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION  15 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

President  of  the  Central  States  Mission 

I  am  very  happy,  my  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  in  attendance 
at  this  Conference.  It  has  been  my  privilege  for  a  good  many  years,  as  a 
representative  of  the  Central  States  mission  to  attend  the  Conferences 
of  this  Church,  and  these  Conferences  have  always  been  a  great  source  of 
inspiration  to  me.  They  have  been  to  me,  in  part,  a  guide  during  the 
time  I  have  been  in  the  mission  field.  The  instruction  and  doctrine  that 
come  from  the  leaders  of  this  Church  are  inspiring  and  when  reproduced 
in  the  different  magazines  of  the  Church  have  been  encouraging  and 
beneficial  when  I  reviewed  them  later  in  the  mission  field. 

I  am  not  at  all  alarmed  over  the  attacks  that  are  being  made  upon 
the  President  and  the  leaders  of  this  Church.  It  has  always  been  the 
heritage  of  the  Lord's  anointed  from  the  very  beginning  of  time,  that 
men  who  have  held  the  authority  of  God  in  the  earth  have  been  subject 
to  criticism  and  attack  by  men  and  women  who  are  not  well  informed 
and  who  have  wicked  intentions. 

There  are  individuals,  who  because  of  their  own  transgressions,  have 
ever  found  fault  and  criticised  and  persecuted  our  leaders  from  the  days 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  until  now. 

Often  we  find  the  more  bitter  enemies  coming  from  within  the 
Church  membership.  If  such  individuals  ever  had  a  testimony  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  they  have  forfeited  their  right  to  it,  and  as  a  re- 
sult they  do  not  apparently  recognize  the  gravity  of  the  position  they 
take  and  the  attack  they  make  upon  the  leaders  of  the  Church. 

People  who  slander  have  never  hindered  the  growth  of  the  Church 
in  the  least,  but  my  observation  has  been  that  it  has  increased  the  faith 
of  those  who  are  diligent  in  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

In  my  experience  during  the  time  I  have  lived  in  Missouri,  in  a 
period  of  twenty-five  years,  I  have  been  able  to  observe  that  those  lead- 
ers who  were  faithful  in  the  discharge  of  their  duty  have  made  history 
that  has  always  established  faith  among  the  children  of  men ;  while  those 
who  fought  the  work  of  God  in  the  early  history  of  the  Church,  de- 
parted from  the  truth  and  were  thus  disloyal  in  their  conduct,  not  only 
destroyed  their  own  possibilities,  but  I  have  never  found  the  descend- 
ants of  those  who  fought  the  work  of  God,  from  then  until  now,  to  be 
faithful  in  the  work  of  God.  On  the  contrary,  I  have  found  them  to  be 
generally  bitter  enemies  of  the  Lord's  work.  Those  who  stood  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  Brigham  Young  and  the  rest  of  the  Presi- 
dents and  leaders  of  the  Church  from  then  until  this  present  time,  their 
descendants  are  found  generally  faithful  and  active  and  true  to  the  trust 
in  the  organizations  of  the  Church.  The  leaders  of  the  Church  have 
established  the  word  of  the  Lord  in  the  earth  as  instruments  in  his  hands 
and  will  stand  as  witnesses  for  God,  while  those  who  oppose  the  author- 
ity of  God  in  the  earth  will  not  have  such  a  record. 

Most  all  of  the  places  where  the  Church  settled  in  Missouri  and 
other  places  nearby  are  practically  deserted.     Places  where  once  in- 


16  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

dustrious  men  and  women  of  this  Church  were  building"  great  centers 
in  that  land  and  where  everything  pointed  to  greater  industries  and 
activities  are  now  found  to  be  almost  desolate. 

One  has  only  to  make  observation  in  these  valleys  of  the  mountains 
to  recognize  where  the  authority  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  vested. 
Those  places  in  Missouri  where  the  people  once  lived  are  nothing  to 
compare  with  these  cities  and  settlements  in  the  valleys  of  the  mountains. 
Any  one  who  makes  a  study  of  the  growth  and  development  of  the 
Church  membership  can  readily  observe  that  the  life  and  light  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  found  in  the  present  membership  of  this 
Church. 

It  has  been  an  inspiration  to  have  known  President  Grant  these 
many  years.  I  have  been  closely  acquainted  with  him.  To  me,  he  has 
been  as  a  father.  T  knew  his  predecessor,  President  Joseph  F.  Smith : 
he  was  as  a  father  to  me  as  well.  They  have  been  men  that  have  guided 
me  in  many,  many  things  with  which  a  mission  president  has  to  deal  in 
the  mission  field,  and  I  know  they  are  men  of  God. 

I  have  known  the  Apostles  in  this  Church  from  the  beginning  of  my 
ministry  in  1904  until  the  present  time.  I  have  traveled  with  most  of 
them  in  the  mission  field.  They  are  men  of  great  inspiration  and  power, 
and  my  testimony  to  the  world  is  that  these  men  are  of  God  and  that 
they  are  entrusted  with  the  authority  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  the 
earth.  They  will  stand  in  the  presence  of  our  Eternal  Father  as  his  wit- 
nesses some  day,  to  give  testimony  concerning  the  lives  of  men  with 
whom  they  have  lived. 

I  know  that  men  live  after  this  life.  I  know  that  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith  lives  and  that  President  Charles  W.  Nibley  lives.  I  have  seen 
them  in  my  dreams  since  they  have  left  us,  and  they  are  counseling  in 
wisdom  at  the  present  time. 

I  know  that  these  leaders  of  the  Church  who  sit  on  this  stand  are 
examples  to  all  people  with  whom  they  come  in  contact. 

I  listened  to  President  Grant  deliver  a  speech  in  Kansas  City  some 
years  ago  before  the  Knife  and  Fork  club.  Two  hundred  and  fifty  peo- 
ple at  least  were  in  attendance.  He  gave  one  of  the  most  inspirational 
sermons  I  have  ever  heard.  Men  who  were  on  the  program  to  talk  that 
night  gave  him  as  much  of  their  time  as  he  wanted. 

I  heard  President  Ivins  speak  in  a  Boy  Scout  meeting  in  St.  Louis 
and  his  was  an  inspirational  and  instructive  address.  I  saw  a  man  there 
who  counted  his  money  by  the  millions,  yield  his  time  to  President  Ivins. 
No  finer  tributes  could  be  paid  to  these  leaders  of  ours  than  were  paid 
by  those  people  who  were  not  of  our  faith  in  the  places  where  these  two 
brethren  were  entertained  at  that  time,  and  I  know  that  men  do  have 
faith  in  the  leaders  of  this  Church. 

There  are  thousands  of  men  and  women  in  the  world  who  love  the 
truth  and  there  are  many  of  them  who  are  searching  for  it  earnestly. 
There  are  many  preparing  themselves  to  receive  the  Gospel.  I  know 
this  is  the  work  of  God, — that  this  is  his  Church,  that  his  priesthood  is 
the  governing  power  in  the  earth,  and  that  the  leaders  in  this  Church, 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BEN N ION  17 

with  President  Grant  who  presides  at  this  time,  hold  their  offices  with 
authority. 

Ours  is  an  individual  responsibility.  I  bear  this  testimony  to  you 
and  close  with  the  words  of  William  Ernest  Henley,  the  poet: 

It  matters  not  how  strait  the  gate, 

How  charged  with  punishment  the  scroll, 

I  am  the  master  of  my  fate ; 
I  am  the  captain  of  my  soul. 

And  this  is  the  condition  of  every  man  and  woman  in  the  world.    I  pray 
the  Lord  to  bless  us  in  the  name  of  Jesus.    Amen. 

ELDER  WM.  R.  SLOAN 

President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

To  face  this  body  of  representative  men  and  women  of  the  Church 
is  indeed  an  inspiration,  and  to  bear  witness  of-this  great  work  that  we 
are  engaged  in,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  a  joy  unspeakable. 

I  have  rejoiced  in  my  acquaintance  with  the  leadership  of  this 
Church.  I  am  thrilled  beyond  all  words  of  expression  for  this  acquaint- 
ance with  them  and  bear  witness  that  they  are  men  of  integrity  and  men 
of  God. 

Last  summer  it  was  our  pleasure  to  visit  Alaska.  We  took  the  in- 
land route,  and  you  who  have  enjoyed  that  wonderful  voyage  know  that 
the  channels  you  go  through,  in  many  cases,  are  very  narrow.  One  eve- 
ning the  pilot  invited  Sister  Sloan  and  myself  into  the  pilot  room.  As 
we  sailed  along  the  narrow  channel  he  pointed  out  to  us  and  said,  "I 
want  you  people  to  note  that  just  on  the  opposite  side,  on  the  right  side 
of  the  boat  [and  the  boat  was  moving  very  slowly]  a  few  feet  under- 
neath the  water,  about  eight  or  ten  feet  from  the  vessel,  there  is  a  great 
ledge  of  rock.  Many  a  ship  has  struck  the  same  and  been  sunk."  Oh, 
it  was  a  wonderful  feeling  of  security  and  safety  to  know  that  we  were 
under  the  leadership  of  a  pilot  who  knew  the  course  the  ship  was  sailing. 

So  it  is  an  inspiration  to  know  in  this  Church  that  God  is  at  the 
helm,  and  that  his  servants  are  inspired,  directed  and  led  by  his  influence. 
Zion  is  growing.  Let  the  world  say  what  it  will,  do  what  it  may,  yet 
this  work  will  go  on  and  on  unto  a  perfect  day. 

The  Apostle  Paul  in  II  Timothy,  chapter  3,  verses  1  to  5,  said  of 
these  times : 

"This  know  also,  that  in  the  last  days  perilous  times  shall  come. 

"For  men  shall  be  lovers  of  their  own  selves,  covetous,  boasters,  proud, 
blasphemers,  disobedient  to  parents,  unthankful,  unholy, 

"Without  natural  affection,  trucebreakers,  false  accusers,  incontinent,  fierce, 
despisers  of  those  that  are  good, 

"Traitors,  heady,  highminded,  lovers  of  pleasures  more  than  lovers  of  God  ; 

"Having  a  form  of  godliness,  but  denying  the  power  thereof;  from. such  turn 
away." 

I  admonish  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters  that  this  is  a  day  that  de- 
mands the  best  that  is  within  us.  God  demands  service  of  us  and  loy- 
alty to  his  priesthood.    Let  us  give  it. 


18  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

I  rejoice  in  my  ministry  in  the  Northwestern  States  mission.  We 
have  a  wonderful  mission.  I  believe  our  people  are  imbued  with  the 
spirit  of  the  Gospel,  so  much  so  that  they  are  trying  to  live  it.  I  am 
happy  to  report  that  the  tithes  of  the  mission  for  the  past  year  show  a 
substantial  increase  over  the  previous  year,  and  that  the  tithes  for  the 
first  quarter  of  this  year  exceed  the  corresponding  period  of  a  year  ago. 

We  do  a  lot  of  good  things  up  there,  and  God  has  blessed  us.  The 
honest  tithe-payer  and  the  men  and  women  who  observe  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  are  being  blessed,  and  it  is  an  evidence  of  his  promise  unto  his 
children. 

Last  evening  another  blessed  privilege  was  enjoyed  by  our  returned 
missionaries.  We  made  a  call  six  months  ago  that  our  returned  mis- 
sionaries should  enlarge  their  scope  of  activity,  and  we  called  our  breth- 
ren and  sisters  who  have  filled  missions  and  are  now  at  home  to  all  unite 
and  go  to  the  temple  and  there  assist  in  extending  blessings  to  the  thou- 
sands and  millions  of  people  who  are  unable  to  help  themselves.  Oh,  the 
thrill  that  came  to  my  soul,  and  I  sat  almost  speechless,  as  I  met  five 
hundred  returned  missionaries,  their  wives,  and  friends — all  in  the  tem- 
ple to  do  this  splendid  work,  vicarious  work  for  our  kindred  dead. 

This  is  God's  work.  I  bear  this  witness.  I  give  my  allegiance,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  the  men  who  preside  over  this  Church.  I  love 
them. 

God  bless  you,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  ELIAS  S.  WOODRUFF 

President  of  the  W'estern  States  Mission 

What  a  glorious  privilege  every  Latter-day  Saint  enjoys  through 
membership  in  this  Church !  The  Holy  Ghost,  which  emanates  from 
the  presence  of  the  Father,  and  fills  the  limits  of  space,  is  available  to 
every  one  who  will  seek  it,  and  is  particularly  the  heritage  of  the  Saints 
who  have  earned  the  right  to  enjoy  it  by  obedience  to  the  ordinances  of 
the  Gospel. 

We  are  told  that  in  the  latter  days  false  prophets  shall  arise,  who 
might  confuse  some  as  to  whether  they  were  true  or  false.  But  the 
Savior  said :  "By  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them,"  and  in  our  judg- 
ment, we  only'  need  to  apply  that  measuring  rule  to  ascertain  whether 
men  are  true  or  false  servants  of  God.  And  greater  than  that,  let  us 
apply  the  rule  to  ourselves.  The  fruits  of  the  Spirit,  if  they  are  enjoyed 
by  you  and  by  me,  are  love,  joy  and  peace.  When  you  have  within  your 
heart  a  burning  desire  to  love  your  brethren  and  sisters,  and  particularly 
those  who  preside  over  you  and  direct  the  affairs  of  this  Church,  you 
may  know  that  that  is  the  influence  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

If  there  is  happiness  and  peace  in  your  heart,  as  expressed  in  the 
joy  of  your  life,  you  may  likewise  know  that  you  are  influenced  by  the 
Holy  Ghost ;  and  if  you  have  peace  and  love  within  your  soul,  then  you 
know  that  you  are  in  the  line  of  your  duty.  If  you  are  disturbed  in  your 
hearts,  if  you  are  angry  with  your  brethren,  if  you  allow  yourselves  to. 


ELDER  ELIAS  S.  WOODRUFF  19 

criticise  them,  you  are  not  happy,  you  are  not  at  peace,  there  is  no  joy 
in  your  soul. 

What  a  glorious  thing  it  is,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  have  this  won- 
derful key  by  which  to  measure  ourselves !  I  pray  the  Lord  will  bless 
his  Saints,  that  they  may  always  keep  that  in  their  hearts.  I  try,  as  far 
as  I  am  able,  to  keep  that  message  in  the  minds  of  the  people  in  the 
mission  where  I  labor,  that  they  may  be  a  happy  people,  that  they  may 
be  a  loyal  and  a  lovable  people,  that  they  may  enjoy  the  gift  of  that 
spirit  which  enriches  the  souls  of  men. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  the  Lord  pours  out  his  Spirit  upon 
us  in  great  power,  that  we  feel  its  blessing,  and  that  the  hearts  of  the 
Saints  rejoice  in  the  testimony  of  the  missionaries,  and  in  their  own 
testimonies,  as  they  meet  together  to  worship  the  Lord.  They  do  sus- 
tain the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve,  and  the  other  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church.  They  sustain  them  in  their  hearts  and  in  their  souls. 
They  sustain  them  by  their  actions.  They  pay  their  tithes  and  their  of- 
ferings. They  say  their  prayers.  They  attend  their  meetings.  They 
strive  to  gain  an  understanding  of  the  Gospel  and  continually  improve 
in  knowledge,  to  increase  their  testimonies.  The  Spirit  burns  in  their 
hearts,  and  when  we  meet  together  we  have  some  glorious  meetings- — 
not  large  meetings,  of  course,  but  we  have  small  gatherings  of  Saints  in 
our  district  and  branch  conferences,  in  which  the  souls  of  the  people 
overflow  with  joy  and  happiness,  and  with  love  of  each  other. 

I  believe  I  can  say  truthfully  that  there  is  peace  and  harmony  ex- 
isting almost  without  exception  throughout  the  mission.  The  mission- 
aries themselves  are  rendering  faithful  service.  They  are  making  their 
sacrifices,  trying  to  curtail  their  expenses  according  to  the  incomes  of 
their  parents  who  are  so  distressed  at  home ;  trying  to  realize  that  the 
sacrifice  of  the  parents  is  a  wonderful  thing;  and  they  wish  to  make 
their  parents  feel  that  they  appreciate  it,  and  are  trying  to  fit  themselves 
to  the  conditions. 

You  may  be  assured  that  so  far  as  the  Western  States  mission  is 
concerned,  your  children,  your  sons  and  daughters  laboring  there,  are 
all  in  good  health,  all  in  good  habits.  They  are  prayerful :  they  are 
humble ;  they  are  diligent  in  their  work :  and  the  Lord  is  blessing  them 
greatly.  His  power  is  manifest  among  us,  and  we  can  testify  continu- 
ously to  his  loving  kindness  and  blessing. 

May  God  bless  you.  May  God  bless  the  work. of  the  Church  every- 
where, and  above  all,  his  chosen  servants  who  preside  over  it.  and  that 
we  may  follow  their  example  and  have  the  influence  of  the  Holy  Spirit 
to  dwell  in  our  hearts,  T  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.    Amen. 

ELDER  MILES  L.  JONES 

President  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission 

I  am  very  thankful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  able  to  report 
progress  in  the  East  Central  States  mission,  in  which  I  have  had  the 
honor  and  privilege  of  laboring  during  the  past  three  years.     I  am  very 


20  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

pleased  to  state  that  the  missionaries  are  enjoying  good  health,  with  the 
exception  of  one,  who  has  been  confined  to  his  home  for  some  little 
time,  but  he  will  soon  be  out  again  and  be  able  to  carry  on  his  work. 
From  time  to  time  as  I  meet  the  missionaries  who  have  returned  home, 
I  find  that  they  have  the  missionary  spirit  with  them  still,  and  every  one 
of  them  exclaims :  "I  wish  that  I  were  able  to  go  back  again  and  take  up 
the  work  where  I  left  off." 

President  Grant  has  referred,  this  morning,  to  some  opposition.  If 
I  recall  right  the  scriptures  say :  "Blessed  are  ye,  when  men  shall  revile 
you,  and  persecute  you,  and  shall  say  all  manner  of  evil  against  you 
falsely,  for  my  sake  .  .  .  for  so  persecuted  they  the  prophets  which  were 
before  you." 

Persecution  always  has  been,  and  perhaps  always  will  be  the 
heritage  of  God's  people  in  the  earth.  I  sometimes  wonder  if  the  change 
is  almost  too  much,  when  I  consider  that  today  in  practically  all  walks 
of  life,  and  among  all  classes  of  people,  we  find  those  who  are  willing  to. 
listen  to  the  message  that  we  have,  and  to  give  consideration  to  it. 

I  am  very  pleased  to  state  that  men  of  influence  and  women  of  in- 
fluence, with  whom  we  come  in  contact  today,  are  giving  consideration 
to  the  teachings  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
are  agreeing  with  our  teachings.  So  I  ani  wondering  if  there  is  a  little 
lull  at  the  present  time.  But  nevertheless,  we  are  pressing  on  in  the 
work,  and  as  I  hear  those  people  express  themselves  it  fills  my  heart 
with  joy  and  thanksgiving  to  my  Heavenly  Father  for  the  progress  that 
is  coming,  especially  in  the  East  Central  States  mission;  and  from  all 
reports,  from  all  of  the  other  missions. 

During  the  past  year  four  hundred  and  eleven  honest  souls  have 
entered  the  waters  of  baptism  in  the  East  Central  States  mission ;  and 
since  the  first  of  the  year  more,  in  proportion,  have  been  baptized  than 
in  the  previous  year.  The  outlook  for  the  coming  season  is  very  en- 
couraging indeed. 

It  may  be  that  some  who  are  under  the  sound  of  my  voice  today, 
both  of  the  seen  as  well  as  the  unseen  audience,  are  earnestly  seeking 
after  truth,  but  have  not  as  yet  put  themselves  in  a  position  to  receive  a 
testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  great  latter-day  work.  If  there  should 
be  such,  let  me  say  to  you,  as  I  have  said  upon  other  occasions,  that  if 
you  will  go  into  your  chambers  by  yourself,  and  there  kneel  down  and 
pour  out  your  soul  to  the  Lord  in  humble  prayer,  he  will  not  turn  you 
aside,  but  he  will  cause  a  feeling  to  come  into  your  soul  that  will  bear 
witness  to  you  of  the  divinity  of  this  great  latter-day  work ;  and  by  fol- 
lowing the  admonition  that  will  come  to  you,  and  complying  with  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord,  you,  with  us,  may  rejoice  in  the  knowledge 
of  this  great  latter-day  work. 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  that  I  have,  because  I  do  know  as  I  know 
that  I  live  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Savior  and  Redeemer 
of  the  world,  and  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  the  instrument  in 
the  hands  of  the  Lord,  raised  up  in  this  day  and  age  of  the  world,  for 
the  purpose  of  establishing  his  work  upon  the  earth  for  the  last  time. 


ELDER  MILES  L.  JONES  21 

which  will  never  more  be  thrown  down  nor  given  to  another  people,  but 
will  stand  unto  the  end. 

I  know  that  President  Heber  J.  Grant  and  those  who  have  preceded 
him  as  prophets  and  presidents  of  the  Church  are  men  of  God,  and  that 
President  Grant  today  is  God's  mouthpiece  upon  the  earth;  and  if  we 
follow  his  admonition  and  teachings  God  will  bless  us  and  prepare  us 
for  every  emergency  in  life  and  for  every  calling  that  may  come  to  us. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  A.  WILLIAM  LUND 

Former  President  of  the  British  Mission 

I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  may  have  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  to  direct  my  remarks.  It  is  indeed  a  pleasure  for  me  to  be  in  your 
midst  once  again,  and  to  report  the  splendid  condition  of  the  British 
mission. 

I  bring  to  you  the  greetings  of  President  and  Sister  Widtsoe,  and 
of  President  and  Sister  Douglas.  They  asked  me,  as  1  left,  that  if  I 
were  permitted  to  speak  at  Conference,  to  extend  to  the  Saints  assembled 
their  good  wishes  and  their  blessings.  They  are  doing  a  wonderful  work 
in  that  land.    The  Lord  is  blessing  them  in  all  of  their  labors. 

The  Saints  throughout  the  British  mission  are  a  wonderful  people. 
They  are  imbued  with  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  are  trying  to  live  the  Gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ.  The  Elders  are  a  splendid  group  of  young  men. 
I  am  pleased  to  report  that  in  all  of  my  missionary  experience  the  great- 
est joy  that  came  to  my  heart  was  to  see  the  Spirit  of  God  take  hold  of 
these  young  men,  these  boys,  so  to  speak,  and  make  men  out  of  them. 
As  they  studied  the  scripture,  as  they  prayed  to  God  for  his  help,  I  could 
see  them  grow  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  could  see  the  testimony 
of  the  truthfulness  of  this  work  rest  upon  them.  As  they  stood  in  the 
halls  and  upon  the  street  corners,  it  brought  joy  to  my  heart  to  listen  to 
them  bear  testimony  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  that  this 
work  had  been  restored  by  him,  and  that  he  had  given  his  life  as  a  testi- 
mony of  its  truthfulness. 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  that  I  have  that  this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ ;  that  within  it  is  the  power  of  everlasting  life :  that  the  priest- 
hood of  God  has  been  restored  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  to 
men  in  this  age  of  the  world,  and  that  the  keys  of  this  priesthood  are 
vested  in  the.  President  of  this  Church  at  the  present  time.  I  am  re- 
minded that  on  one  occasion,  at  a  time  when  a  number  of  the  disciples 
were  leaving  the  Master,  the  Savior  asked  his  apostles  this  question, 
"Will  ye  also  go  away?"  Then  Peter  answered,  "Lord  to  whom  shall 
we  go?  Thou  hast  the  words  of  eternal  life." 

So  I  ask,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  should  turn  from  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  where  would  we  go,  for  in 
this  Church,  and  only  in  this  Church,  are  the  words  of  eternal  life.  Here 
is  the  power  or  priesthood  which  makes  the  Gospel  the  power  of  God 


22  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

unto  salvation.  The  priesthood  is  here ;  and  when  men  go  about  reviling 
the  President  of  the  Church  they  revile  the  Church  to  which  I  belong. 
I  resent  it,  because  I  know  in  my  heart  that  this  is  the  Church  of  God ; 
that  these  men  who  stand  at  the  head  of  this  Church  are  inspired  of 
God,  are  our  leaders,  and  have  the  words  of  eternal  life. 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  that  has  been  given  to  me  that  God  lives, 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Redeemer  of  mankind,  and  that  through  him  and 
only  through  him  can  eternal  life  come  unto  the  children  of  men. 

In  the  British  mission  we  have  established  priesthood  and  genealogi- 
cal classes,  and  have  all  the  auxiliaries.  I  rejoice  to  report  to  you  that 
they  are  doing  splendidly  in  their  work.  We  have  6,640  members  of  the 
Church  who  are  divided  into  16  districts  containing  74  branches.  There 
were,  at  the  end  of  1931,  68  Relief  Societies,  71  Sunday  Schools,  71 
Mutuals  and  37  Primaries.  The  Saints  rejoice  in  the  privilege  of  hav- 
ing a  patriarch  in  their  midst.  Brother  Wallis  is  doing  a  good  work 
among  the  people.  I  am  happy  to  report  that  last  year  we  had  two  hun- 
dred and  forty-five  baptisms  in  that  mission.  It  may  seem  only  a  few, 
but  brethren  and  sisters,  the  people  there  are  not  turning  their  hearts  to 
God  as  we  would  like  to  see  them  do.  I  wish  that  they  would.  I  wish 
that  they  would  turn  unto  him ;  that  they  would  come  back  to  him ;  that 
they  would  follow  in  his  footsteps;  that  instead  of  so  much  belief  in 
man-made  philosophies  they  would  come  back  to  the  teachings  of  Christ ; 
that  they  would  repent  and  turn  unto  him. 

In  conclusion  let  me  plead  with  the  younger  members  of  the  Church 
who  may  be  present,  as  I  am  a  younger  member  of  the  Church,  that  we 
devote  our  lives  to  service  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  ;  that  we  remain  loyal  to  this  Church,  to  the  leaders  of  this  Church. 
The  Church  will  go  on,  and  the  only  way  that  we  can  remain  with  its 
progress  is  to  be  loyal  to  it  and  to  continue  faithful  to  all  the  duties  that 
are  assigned  unto  us.  We  need  not  fear  for  the  welfare  of  this  Church. 
It  is  the  Church  of  God,  and  it  will  go  on  and  on  and  fill  its  destiny. 
Let  us,  the  younger  members  of  the  Church,  rise  up,  do  our  duty,  keep 
the  commandments  of  God,  pay  our  tithes,  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
and  God  will  bless  us  with  a  testimony  of  the  truthfulness  of  this  Church 
and  the  faithfulness  of  its  leaders,  I  testify  to  you,  through  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  ARTHUR  WELLING 

President  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission 

I  earnestly  pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  may  guide  the  few  remarks  that  I  may  make,  as  has  been  the  case 
with  those  who  have  preceded  me. 

I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives,  and  that  this  is  verily  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  am  grateful  for  membership  in 
it,  and  for  the  privilege  of  acting  as  a  missionary  abroad. 

"Go  ye  into  all  the  world,"  declared  tbe  risen  Lord  to  his  dis- 
ciples, "and  preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature.    He  that  believeth  and 


ELDER  ARTHUR  WELLING  23 

is  baptized  shall  be  saved;  but  he  that  believeth  not  shall  be  damned." 
(Mark  16:15-16.) 

Whatever  the  Savior  may  have  meant  by  "damned,"  the  responsi- 
bility of  those  thus  commissioned  to  deliver  the  Gospel  message  to  the 
world  is  here  made  clear  and  emphatic.  Every  missionary  knows,  how- 
ever, that  Paul  may  sow,  and  Apollos  water,  but  only  God  giveth  the 
increase;  (I  Cor.  3)  and  he  knows  that  without  this  testimony  of  the 
Spirit  there  is  no  increase,  never  was,  nor  ever  will  be.  It  was  the  Master 
himself  who,  in  answer  to  Peter's  inspired  declaration :  "Thou  art  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God,"  said:  "Blessed  art  thou,  Simon 
Bar-jona;  for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my 
father  which  is  in  heaven.  And  I  say  unto  thee,  That  thou  art  Peter, 
and  upon  this  rock  [Revelation]  I  will  build  my  Church;  and  the  gates 
of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against  it."     (Matt.  16:16-18.) 

I  testify  to  all  the  world  that  this  Church  is  built  upon  the  rock  of 
revelation.  Now  as  always,  "not  flesh  and  blood,  but  my  Father  which 
is  in  heaven"  reveals  its  truth  to  men.  Our  task  as  missionaries  is  to 
bring  the  truth  to  the  favorable  attention  of  men  in  every  possible  way, 
and  leave  the  rest  to  them  and  to  the  Lord. 

Now,  a  word  about  our  missionary  work.  The  North  Central 
States  mission,  though  comparatively  young  and  numerically  small,  is 
approximately  a  thousand  miles  square,  lying  west  of  the  Great  Lakes 
and  east  of  the  Rockies,  half  in  the  United  States  and  half  in  Canada. 
We  have  fifty  missionaries,  about  twenty-six  hundred  members,  and  a 
population  of  approximately  ten  times  the  total  membership  of  the 
Church  in  all  the  world. 

Our  missionaries  are  well  and  busy  and  happy  in  their  work.  They 
are  a  credit  to  their  parents  and  to  the  Church.  So  are  our  members. 
Last  year  more  of  them  paid  tithing  than  ever  before  in  our  history,  and 
more  of  it  than  for  any  previous  year  except  1930,  which  was  our 
banner  year. 

Conversions  and  baptisms,  however,  though  surpassing  all  previous 
records,  come  but  slowly.  Our  people  are  honest,  industrious,  and  I  am 
sure,  more  than  ordinarily  religious ;  but  there  remains  much  to  be  done 
to  bring  them  to  an  acceptance  of  the  restored  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
As  I  think  of  these  good  people,  and  listen  to  the  testimonies  offered 
here,  I  wish,  in  the  language  of  Philip  to  Nathanael,  that  they  might 
all  "Come  and  See."  Philip,  you  remember,  had  reported  to  Nathanael : 
"We  have  found  him,  of  whom  Moses  in  the  law,  and  the  prophets,  did 
write,  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  the  son  of  Joseph.  And  Nathanael  said  unto 
him,  Can  there  any  good  thing  come  out  of  Nazareth  ?  Philip  saith  unto 
him,  Come  and  see."  (John  ;1 :45-46).  Such  is  Mormonism's  invitation 
to  the  world :  "Come  and  see." 

Come  and  see  what  ?  First,  I  wish  they  might  find  here  what  I  be- 
lieve to  be  the  greatest  need  of  the  world  today ;  namely,  a  real  faith  in  a 
real  God,  our  Heavenly  Father.  This  is  the  first  essential  of  any  worth- 
while religion ;  and  the  second  is  adherence  to  the  laws  of  morality,  good 


24  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

old  fashioned  virtue  and  honesty  and  honor  in  the  lives  of  men.  These 
ought  observers  to  find  here. 

I  would  invite  attention  also  to  the  organization  of  this  Church, — 
led  by  prophets  and  apostles, — its  hundred  stakes  and  thirty  missions 
calling  into  active  service  literally  thousands  of  people  in  positions  of 
responsibility, — its  more  than  a  thousand  wards  and  branches  with  their 
tens  of  thousands  of  officers, — its  multitudes  of  men  holding  the  priest- 
hood, and  of  men  and  women  engaged  in  the  various  Auxiliaries  of  the 
Church, — all  laboring  gratuitously  and  enthusiastically  for  the  welfare 
of  others,  under  conditions  best  calculated  to  hold  men  always  at  their 
best.  All  my  life  I  have  been  engaged,  as  student  or  teacher,  in  char- 
acter education.  In  my  opinion  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  is  the  greatest  instrument  known  to  man  for  the  development 
of  its  members,  for  the  character  education  of  those  who  participate  in 
its  blessings.  It  is  God's  own  plan  "for  the  perfecting  of  the  saints,  for 
the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  edifying  of  the  body  of  Christ."  (Eph. 
4:12.)     All  this  I  would  have  our  friends  to  "Come  and  see." 

I  would  have  them  examine  also  the  law  of  tithing  operative  in  the 
Church.  In  these  times  of  financial  distress  and  perplexity  of  nations, 
when  state  legislatures,  national  congresses  and  parliaments,  and  inter- 
national conferences  are  frantically  wrestling  with  mounting  deficits, 
let  them  inquire  God's  way  of  balancing  the  budget  in  his  Church  and 
kingdom,  a  device  so  simple  and  equitable  as  to  require  neither  explana- 
tion nor  justification,  the  ancient  law  of  the  tithe. 

The  public  budget  in  balance.  I  would  have  them  observe  how  the 
individual  poor  and  needy  of  the  Church  are  cared  for  by  the  simple  but 
effective  device  of  the  fast  offering.  Then  might  follow  analysis  of  the 
benefits  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  of  our  missionary  system,  etc. 

Thus,  I  believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  there  is  much  in  the 
fruits  of  Mormonism  which  should  challenge  the  attention  and  com- 
mand the  respect  of  men.  But  after  all  these  so-called  fruits  of  the  Gos- 
pel are  of  relatively  minor  importance, — a  few  acorns,  so  to  speak,  from 
the  great  oak  tree  of  truth.  It  is  the  testimony  that  God  lives,  and  that 
we  are  his  children ;  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  the  Gospel  is  his 
plan  of  life  and  salvation ;  that  his  priesthood  and  authority  are  here  ;  and 
that  the  promised  gifts  and  blessings  do  follow  the  believers, — these  are 
the  fundamentals  in  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  All  these  and 
more  are  here  if  the  world  will  but  "Come  and  see." 

I  sustain  and  uphold  those  who  preside  in  this  Church.  I  know 
that  the  priesthood  is  here ;  and  that  in  the  Gospel  as  here  taught  resides 
the  power  of  God  unto  salvation. 

I  am  glad,  I  repeat,  to  be  a  missionary,  and  to  assist  in  bringing 
this  message  to  the  attention  of  men.  I  pray  God  to  bless  the  youth  of 
Zion  and  keep  us  true  to  our  heritage  of  truth ;  and  may  he  bless  the 
world,  and  in  his  own  due  time,  bring  to  pass  his  righteous  will  and  pur- 
poses in  the  salvation  of  the  children  of  men.  To  all  of  which  may  he 
add  his  blessings,  I  humbly  pray,  through  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord.    Amen. 


ELDER  JAMES  H.   MOYLE  25 

The  hymn,  "Do  what  is  right,"  was  sung  by  the  congregation. 
Elder  Franklin  S.  Richards  pronounced  the  benediction. 
Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  second  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  promptly  at  2 
o'clock  p.  m. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Guide  us,  O  thou  great  Jehovah." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Andrew  Jenson,  Assist- 
ant Church  Historian. 

A  sacred  solo,  "Arise!  Shine!"  was  sung  by  Brother  John  Wood. 

ELDER  JAMES  H.  MOYLE 

President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  happy  in  the  work  of  the  ministry, 
and  pleased  to  say  that  our  missionaries  are  in  good  health  and  active 
in  their  work.  The  past  winter  has  been  one  of  the  mildest  in  the 
history  of  the  East ;  while  you  have  had  so  much  snow  here,  we  have 
had  practically  none. 

There  are  two  features  of  our  work  which  have  greatly  interested 
me,  one — the  enlargement  of  our  radio  activities.  We  have  obtained  two 
more  free  stations,  one  in  Buffalo,  where  there  are  more  people  than  in 
Utah ;  and  the  only  station  in  Paterson,  New  Jersey.  During  President 
Grant's  last  visit,  we  secured  the  largest  station  in  Washington,  D.  C. 
President  Grant  opened  the  service  over  it  with  an  address,  notable  in 
the  history  of  the  Eastern  States  mission  and  the  preaching  of  the 
Gospel  over  the  radio.  This  makes  eight  stations  over  which  we  broad- 
cast weekly.  [We  have  reports  from  over  the  mission,  and  from  the 
East  Central  States  mission,  that  President  Grant  was  heard  clearly. 
In  Massachusetts,  the  bishop  of  the  Reorganized  Church  at  Brockton, 
with  a  number  of  followers,  listened  in.  We  are  guaranteed  that  we 
can  preach  to  people  over  that  station  from  Florida  to  Canada.  Thus, 
literally,  the  Gospel  is  being  proclaimed  from  the  housetops,  as  pre- 
dicted in  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

Another  event  of  marked  interest  to  me  is  the  opportunity  that  has 
been  afforded  during  the  past  three  months  to  preach  to  the  Jews 
in  their  synagogues.  The  subject  thus  far  has  been  the  Relationship 
of  Mormonism  to  Judaism.  It  was  something  of  a  remarkable  ex- 
perience to  witness  the  interest  which  these  educated  Jews  have  mani- 
fested, and  especially  the  Jewish  students  at  Ithaca,  New  York,  where 
the  Cornell  University  is  located.  About  a  quarter  of  the  students 
are  Jews,  and  they,  with  their  Rabbi,  constituted  substantially  all  of  the 
audience  which  gathered  in  their  synagogue.  In  fact,  it  was  some  of 
these  young  Jews  that  induced  the  Rabbi  to  invite  me  to  speak  to  them. 
They  remained  after  the  service,  wanting  to  learn  more,  until  eleven 


26  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

o'clock,  and  then  several  followed  me  to  the  hotel.  Two  have  since 
written  letters,  promising  to  visit  me  at  the  end  of  the  school  year, 
and  inviting  me  back. 

As  I  say,  we  have  now  several  invitations  to  speak  at  other 
synagogues  and  Jewish  organizations,  one  at  Newark,  New  Jersey, 
presided  over  (by  the  father  of  one  of  the  Cornell  students,  who  was 
not  only  present  at  the  Jewish  synagogue  at  Ithaca,  but  it  was  he  who 
induced  his  father  to  invite  me  to  speak  to  the  Newark  Jewish  Club 
over  which  he  presides. 

I  do  not  know  of  anything  that  presents  a  more  marvelous  and 
satisfying  demonstration  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God  than 
the  fact  that  he,  a  boy  not  twenty-four  years  of  age,  translated  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  and  published  it  to  the  world  very  shortly  after  his  twenty- 
fourth  birthday,  and  that  that  book  should  arouse  the  interest  that  it 
does  among  all  classes  of  Jews. 

On  the  title  page  of  the  Book  of  Mormon/ — written  by  practically 
a  boy — is  found  among  other  things,  the  remarkable  statement  that 
it,  (the  Book  of  Mormon,  was  "to  come  forth  by  the  gift  and  power  of 
God  *  *  *  in  due  time  by  way  of  the  Gentile  *  *  *  to  show  unto  the 
remnant  of  the  House  of  Israel  what  great  things  the  Lord  hath  done 
for  their  Fathers ;  and  that  they  may  know  the  covenants  of  the  Lord, 
that  they  are  not  cast  off  forever — 'And  also  to  the  convincing  of  the 
Jew  and  Gentile  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Eternal  God,  manifesting 
himself  unto  all  nations." 

Bear  in  mind  that  this  was  over  a  hundred  years  ago,  that  this 
country  frontier  boy,  without  education,  and  with  only  extremely 
limited  opportunities  of  access  to  books  or  libraries,  or  contact  with 
learned  men,  translated  the  Book  of  Mormon,  which  is  now  translated 
and  published  into  sixteen  languages,  and  about  50,000  of  the  same 
sold  per  year,  with  an  ever-increasing  demand  for  the  same. 

That  book,  as  previously  outlined,  and  particularly  in  the  prophecies 
found  in  Second  Nephi,  in  the  30th  and  10th  chapters,  foretells  in 
unmistakable  language,  vital  future  events  and  conditions  which  have 
already  been  fulfilled,  and  still  more  which  are  being  fulfilled.  It 
says : 

"And  now,  I  would  prophesy  somewhat  more  concerning  the  Jews  and 
Gentiles.  For  after  the  book  of  which  I  have  spoken  shall  come  forth,  and  be 
written  unto  the  Gentiles,  and  sealed  up  again  unto  the  Lord,  there  shall  be  many 
which  shall  believe  the  words  fwhich  are  written ;  and  they  shall  carry  them 
forth  unto  the  remnant  of  our  seed.  *  *  * 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  the  Jews  which  are  scattered  also  shall  begin 
to  believe  in  Christ ;  and  they  shall  begin  to  gather  in  upon  the  face  of  the  land." 

The  Prophet  then  says  that  they  of  Jerusalem  "who  shall  not  be  destroyed 
shall  be  scattered  among  all  nations. 

"But  behold,  thus  saith  the  Lord  God :  When  the  day  cometh  that  they 
shall  believe  in  me,  that  I  am  Christ,  then  have  I  covenanted  with  their  fathers 
that  they  shall  be  restored  in  the  flesh,  upon  the  earth,  unto  the  lands  of  their 
inheritance. 

"And  it  shall  come  jto  pass  that  they  shall  be  gathered  in  from  their  long 
dispersion,  from  the  isles  of  the  sea,  and  from  the  four  parts  of  the  earth." 


ELDER  JAMES  H.  MOYLE  27 

When  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  first  published,  there  were  ex- 
tremely few  Jews  in  all  of  Palestine,  and  they  were  not  permitted  the 
privileges  of  citizenship  in  that  land,  or  the  right  to  hold  title  to  land, 
and  were  greatly  mistreated  by  the  Turkish  government,  of  which 
Palestine  was  a  part.  In  fact,  the  Jews  throughout  Europe,  even  in- 
cluding liberty-loving  England,  were  denied  many  of  the  privileges 
and  the  freedom  enjoyed  by  other  people. 

All  must  know  something  of  what  has  been  taking  place  alto- 
gether subsequent  to  the  publication  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

In  about  a  quarter  of  a  century  after  the  coming  forth  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  there  commenced  some  real  agitation  among  Jews 
for  their  restoration  in  Palestine.  The  first  material  effort  in  that 
direction  was  led  by  Baron  Rothchild,  in  the  70's.  That  was  personal, 
and  the  first  organized  movement  was  led  by  Baron  Hirsch.  Then 
followed  an  the  90's,  and  the  early  part  of  the  twentieth  century,  the 
more  general  Zionist  movement,  which  has  become  a  real  power  in  the 
world  and  influenced  the  British  Empire.  Since  the  great  World  War, 
millions  and  millions  have  been  contributing,  and  Jews  by  the  thousands 
have  been  aided  in  their  migration  to  and  settlement  in  Palestine  and 
their  establishment  therein  in  making  it  a  homeland  for  scattered  and 
down-trodden  Jews. 

Another  notable  fact,  showing  how  clearly  the  youthful  Prophet 
understood  the  hidden  but  foretold  predictions  of  the  prophets  of  the 
Lord,  is  shown  in  the  first  publication  of  the  Church,  other  than  that 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon  which  was  published  before  the  Church  was 
organized,  namely,  the  "Evening  and  Morning  Star"  printed  in  June, 
1832,  in  Independence,  Mo.  In  its  first  issue,  setting  forth  its  mission 
and  the  object  of  its  publication,  is  the  statement  that  it  was  to  be 
"a  Messenger  of  truth  in  these  the  last  days,  to  present  to  the  world 
the  revelations  and  commandments  of  God  which  have  been  given,  and 
those  which  may  be  given,  etc.,  and  good  tidings  of  great  joy  to  all* — 
but  more  especially  to  the  House  of  Israel  scattered  abroad,  that  the 
day  of  their  redemption  is  near,  for  the  Lord  has-  set  his  hand  again  the 
second  time  to  restore  them  to  the  lands  of  their  inheritance." 

I  would  like  to  call  your  attention  to  the  fact,  that  at  the  dedication 
of  the  Kirtland  Temple  in  1836,  in  the  prayer  of  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
(found  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants)  among  other  most  significant 
things  he  said :  "We  therefore  ask  thee  to  have  mercy  upon  the  children 
of  Jacob,  that  Jerusalem,  from  this  hour,  may  begin  to  be  redeemed;  and 
the  y\&ke  of  bondage  may  begin  to  be  broken  off  from  the  House  of 
David;  and  the  children  of  Judah  may  begin  to  return  to  the  lands 
which  thou  didst  give  to  Abraitt-m,  their  father." 

Then  in  April,  1840,  the  Prophet  called  Orson  Hyde  and  John 
E.  (Page  on  a  mission  to  go  to  Jerusalem  and  there  dedicate  that  land  to 
the  return  of  the  Jews — at  a  time  when  they  were  not  permitted  ordinary 
civil  or  political  privileges,  including  the  right  to  hold  land  in  Palestine. 
It  took  Orson  Hyde  a  year  and  a  half  to  get  there,  traveling  without 
purse  or  scrip.  The  trials  were  so  great  that  John  E.  Page  failed  on  the 
way,  and  gave  up  the  struggle :  but   Apostle  Orson  Hyde  arrived  on 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

the  Mt.  of  Olives,  and  in  Oct.,  1841,  dedicated  that  land  to  the  return 
of  the  Jews,  praying,  among  other  things,  to  the  Lord  "to  remove  the 
barrenness  and  sterility  of  this  land,  and  let  springs  of  living  water 
break  forth  to  water  its  thirsty  soil,  let  the  vine  and  olive  produce  in 
their  strength,  and  the  fig  tree  bloom  and  flourish.  |  Let  the  land 
become  abundantly  fruitful  and  possessed  by  its  'rightful  heirs;  let 
it  again  flow  with  plenty,  to  (feed  the  returning  (prodigals  who 
come  home  with  a  spirit  of  grace  and  supplication.  Upon  it  let  the 
clouds  distil  virtue  and  richness,  and  let  the  fields  smile  with  plenty; 
let  the  flocks  and  the  herds  greatly  increase  and  multiply  upon  the 
mountains  and  hills." 

I  see  my  time  is  up,  but  I  commend  to  your  consideration  what  we 
call  in  the  mission  "The  Redeemed  Hebrew,"  written  by  President  B. 
H.  Roberts  in  1927.  It  sets  forth  in  much  greater  detail  the  whole 
story,  with  quotations  from  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  the  changed 
attitude  of  the  Jews  toward  Christ,  hundreds  of  thousands  of  whom 
are  accepting  Christianity.  We  are  distributing  that  paper,  and  it  is 
being  read  eagerly  by  thousands  of  Jews.  You  know  that  New  York 
City  is  the  great  Jewish  center  of  the  world.  I  understand  that  about 
one-fourth  or  two  million  of  the  people  living  in  and  near  New  York 
City  are  Jews.  At  our  street  meetings  they  take  this  paper  eagerly. 
It  was  printed  in  a  Jewish-Christian  periodical.  The  Jews  are  interested 
in  it.  It  is  a  common  experience  to  learn  from  well-informed  Jews 
that  they  have  read  or  are  familiar  with  the  contents  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon. 

Thus  the  work  is  going  on,  and  may  God  bless  it  and  those  who 
are  seeking  to  further  the  purposes  of  the  Lord,  is  my  desire  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  V.  BLUTH 

President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

I  esteem  it  a  great  privilege,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  per- 
mitted to  come  back  to  Salt  Lake  City  every  six  months  and  participate 
in  the  Conference  proceedings.  It  is  a  wonderful  inspiration  unto  us  who 
are  absent  in  the  mission  field,  and  we  can  carry  back  that  inspiration 
unto  those  with  whom  we  are  laboring. 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  I  ob- 
tained by  listening  to  the  teachings  of  the  Elders  many  years  ago.  I 
rejoice  that  year  by  year  that  testimony  has  grown  stronger  and  brighter ; 
that  in  all  the  vicissitudes  of  life,  and  the  flounderings  and  the  stumblings 
through  which  we  go,  and  through  which  I  have  gone,  I  have  been  able 
to  retain  that  testimony.  I  cherish  that  as  one  of  the  greatest,  if  not  the 
greatest  gift  that  God  can  give  unto  us.  I  do  not  know  of  any  gift  I 
can  think  of  now  that  would  be  worth  so  much  to  me  if  I  were  to  lose 
the  testimony  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord  ;  that  it  is  divine  ;  that  his 
power  and  authority  are  here  upon  the  earth ;  that  he  speaks  through  thai 
authority ;  that  we  are  led  and  guided  by  his  Holy  Spirit  in  all  that  we 
do ;  that  we  are  seeking  in  our  humble  way  to  carry  on  his  work ;  that 


ELDER  JOHN  V.  BLUTH  29 

he  in  reality  has  given  unto  us  the  privilege  of  being  his  humble  assistants 
in  carrying  out  the  great  task  that  he  has  set  for  himself,  to  bring  about 
the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man. 

I  know  of  nothing  more  glorious  than  to  have  the  privilege  of  work- 
ing in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  in  high  position 
or  in  low.  I  feel  it  such  an  honor,  such  a  help,  such  an  opportunity  for 
growth  and  advancement,  that  I  feel  that  all  Latter-day  Saints  should 
hunger  for  the  privilege  of  serving  in  some  capacity  in  the  kingdom  of 
God.    It  gives  us  joy;  it  gives  us  happiness. 

I  do  not  know  that  at  any  time  in  my  past  life  I  have  realized  as 
fully  as  I  do  now  what  that  second  commandment  means :  "Love  thy 
neighbor  as  thyself."  In  contemplation  of  that  so  many  other  things 
that  occupy  our  lives  fade  away  into  insignificance.  The  philosophy  of 
that  commandment,  "Love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself,"  seems  to  me  to  be 
made  clear  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  I  remember  reading  in  the  book 
of  Mosiah  the  story  of  King  Benjamin.  As  he  felt  age  creeping  upon 
him  he  desired  to  deliver  over  the  kingdom  to  his  son.  He  called  the 
people  together  for  the  purpose  of  counseling  them,  to  advise  them,  and 
to  deliver  the  kingdom  into  the  hands  of  his  son.  When  they  had  gath- 
ered together  he  began  to  recite  some  of  the  things  that  had  been  done 
and  accomplished.  What  he  particularly  impressed  upon  them  was  this 
one  fact,  that  though  he  were  a  king  and  ruled  over  them,  yet  he  had 
labored  with  his  own  hands  for  the  accomplishment  of  God's  purposes, 
that  he  might  not  be  a  burden  unto  them.  "And  this,"  he  declared,  "I 
do  not  desire  to  boast  of,  but  I  tell  you  these  things  that  ye  might  learn 
wisdom ;  that  ye  may  learn  that  when  ye  are  in  the  service  of  your  fellow 
beings,  ye  are  only  in  the  service  of  your  God." 

This  truth  is  impressed  upon  us  in  the  mission  field ;  and  the  priv- 
ilege of  carrying  the  Gospel  to  those  who  are  honest  in  heart,  giving  un- 
to them  the  word  of  the  Lord,  giving  unto  them  greater  opportunity  for 
advancement,  progress,  knowledge,  understanding,  gives  us  joy.  Grief 
we  feel  when  we  find  that  apparently  our  words  fall  on  deaf  ears,  when 
that  which  is  so  plain  unto  us  seems  as  a  fallacy  to  them.  They  believe 
in  Jesus  Christ  but  they  have  already  been  saved,  they  say,  and,  being 
saved,  there  is  nothing  else  that  they  need  look  [forward  to ;  the  fact 
that  we  cannot  undeceive  them  in  this  thing  brings  us  grief.  In  a  small 
way  it  gives  us  a  little  understanding  of  what  our  Savior  must  have  felt 
when  he  came  unto  his  own  and  his  own  would  not  receive  him.  He 
gave  them  the  opportunity  for  salvation  and  exaltation,  but  they  looked 
upon  him  as  a  blasphemer. 

I  desire  to  bear  my  testimony  to  the  goodness  of  God,  and  to  his 
mercy,  to  the  j  oy  that  has  come  into  my  heart  since  we  heard  the  Gospel 
some  56  years  ago,  and  the  satisfaction  and  the  happiness  that  are  ours 
in  doing  the  work  of  the  Lord,  in  working  in  his  cause,  in  helping  to 
deliver  unto  the  rest  of  the  world  that  same  message  that  has  given  us 
joy  and  happiness. 

May  God  help  us  to  cherish  the  testimony  that  we  have  received, 
that  we  may  do  nothing  that  will  mar  it  or  cause  it  to  fade  away,  because 


30  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

these  testimonies  that  have  come  unto  us  by  doing  the  will  of  the  Lord 
cannot  be  taken  from  us  by  any  power  on  earth,  except  that  of  our  own 
transgression.  Let  us  cherish  it  and  keep  it.  It  is  a  wonderful  thing  to 
know,  not  only  that  we  are  in  the  way,  but  to  know  where  we  are  going, 
and  that  at  the  end  of  this  life  we  still  continue  in  the  service  of  the 
Lord,  with  the  vistas  of  progression  and  advancement  outlined  before 
us.  O,  that  testimony!  There  isn't  anything  in  the  world  that  I  can 
think  of  for  which  I  would  give  that  testimony. 

May  God  help  us  to  serve  him,  to  do  his  will,  to  be  faithful,  honest 
and  loyal  to  his  cause,  not  paying  so  much  attention  to  the  things  of  this 
world,  because  they  fade  away,  but  to  look  more  for  the  things  that  are 
of  eternal  worth  and  that  we  can  carry  with  us,  that  we  may  find  stored 
up  there  for  us  when  we  go  there,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  E.  ROWAN,  JR. 

President  of  the  Texas  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  appreciate  the  opportunity  I  have  of 
laboring  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  bring 
you  greetings  from  the  Saints,  the  missionaries,  Sister  Rowan,  and  my 
family.  I  am  happy  to  say  that  the  missionaries  are  all  well,  enjoying  the 
spirit  of  the  Gospel,  enjoying  their  labors,  and  getting  great  satisfaction 
from  bearing  testimony  of  the  restored  Gospel  t'o  the  people  of  Texas 
and  Louisiana. 

I  find  there  are  many  faithful  Latter-day  Saints  living  in  those 
states,  and  as  missionaries  we  appreciate  very  much  the  splendid  coopera- 
tion they  are  giving  us  in  helping  to  disseminate  the  Gospel  truths.  Many 
of  our  best  converts  are  being  contacted  through  the  very  fine  personnel 
of  those  who  have  membership  in  this  great  Church. 

It  gives  me  great  joy  to  report  that  we  have  fifteen  branches,  with 
a  membership  of  eighteen  hundred  fifty-nine  souls.  We  have  five  dis- 
tricts having  a  membership  of  thirty-six  hundred  five.  Making  a  total  in 
the  Texas  mission  of  five  thousand  four  hundred  sixty-four  souls.  We 
have  thirty-four  Sunday  Schools,  seventeen  Relief  Societies,  and  many 
Primaries.  Our  Primaries,  however,  you  realize,  are  not  entirely  stable, 
because  the  lady  missionaries  establish  temporary  community  Primaries, 
while  they  are  laboring  in  the  various  cities ;  yet  they  are  accomplishing 
a  wonderful  work. 

I  am  happy  to  report  that  the  people  in  these  states  are  very  friendly 
and  hospitable.  It  is  a  source  of  gratitude  to  me  to  find  the  confidence  that 
the  business  and  professional  men  have  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  The  conduct  of  our  people  whom  they  have  met  has 
thoroughly  convinced  them  that  those  who  have  membership  in  this 
church  are  honest,  honorable,  straightforward,  God-fearing  men  and 
women.  I  appreciate  telling  you,  that  many  of  the  leading  doctors  in 
those  states  treat  our  missionaries  absolutely  free  of  charge  because  of 
the  wonderful  work  thev  are  doing. 


ELDER  CHARLES  E.  ROWAN,  JR.  31 

We  are  not  quite  so  fortunate  in  giving  addresses  over  the  radio, 
since  those  in  charge  say :  "We  will  be  delighted,  if  you  will  pay,  to  give 
you  a  reduced  rate, — but  we  expect  money  from  all  other  churches  and 
receive  it ;  consequently  you  will  have  to  pay  to  get  on  the  air."  Hence 
few  radio  programs  have  been  given. 

During  these  hard  times  we  are  finding  great  consolation  and  solace 
in  the  words  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  wherein  he  said : 

"Come  unto  me,  all  ye  that  labour  and  are  heavy  laden,  and  I  will  give  you 
rest. 

"Take  my  yoke  upon  you,  and  learn  of  me;  for  I  am  meek  and  lowly  in 
heart :  and  ye  shall  find  rest  unto  your  souls. 

"For  my  yoke  is  easy  and  my  burden  is  light." 

We  are  putting  this  to  the  test,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  I  am 
frank  to  confess  that  the  Lord  is  blessing  his  people  with  his  Spirit. 

I  believe  that  the  Christian  people  generally  throughout  the  world 
are  depending  more  on  the  Lord  than  they  have  done  in  the  past.  I 
recognize  and  appreciate  that  the  Lord  has  given  us  an  invitation  to  come 
unto  him  and  find  rest  to  our  souls,  but  I  am  also  mindful  of  the  fact  that 
the  Lord  has  said  there  is  something  of  vastly  more  importance.  He 
said, 

"Not  every  one  that  sayeth  unto  me  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  kingdom 
of  heaven;  but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  my  father  which  is  in  heaven. 

"Many  will  say  to  me  in  that  day,  Lord,  Lord,  have  we  not  prophesied  in  thy 
name?  and  in  thy  name  have  cast  out  devils?  and  in  thy  name  done  many  won- 
derful works? 

"And  then  will  I  profess  unto  them,  I  never  knew  you;  depart  from  me,  ye 
that  work  iniquity." 

So  I  say  to  you  there  is  a  certain  way  prescribed  by  Jesus  the  Christ 
through  which  his  children  must  come  unto  him.  The  plan  is  outlined 
completely  in  our  Articles  of  Faith. 

I  am  happy  to  be  engaged  in  the  work  with  my  missionaries  in  call- 
ing upon  mankind  to  repent.  I  find  myself  in  perfect  accord  with  this 
Church.  I  honor,  revere  and  respect  these  prophets ;  I  bear  you  my  wit- 
ness, in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  I  know  that  God  our 
Eternal  Father  has  spoken  in  this  dispensation  of  time,  that  Jesus  the 
Christ  has  reappeared  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  an  instrument  in  the 
hands  of  Almighty  God  in  establishing  anew  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ. 

I  am  also  thankful  to  know  that  his  successors  have  all  held  the 
keys  of  the  authority  to  bind  on  earth  and  it  shall  be  bound  in  heaven, 
and  to  loose  on  earth  and  it  shall  be  loosed  in  heaven.  I  certify  to  you, 
in  words  of  soberness,  that  President  Heber  J.  Grant  is  a  prophet,  seer 
and  revelator,  and  an  inspiration  to  all  who  are  familiar  with  his  life. 

May  I  make  one  appeal  before  closing.  Send  us  the  names  and 
addresses  of  your  friends  or  relatives  in  Texas  or  Louisiana  and  we  will 
be  glad  to  get  in  touch  with  them.  I  want  to  thank  the  Bureau  of  In- 
formation, and  all  others  who  have  furnished  us  with  information.  Your 
sons  and  daughters  are  well  and  happy.  They  are  receiving  testimony 
upon  testimony  that  this  is  God's  work. 


32  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

I  pray  God  to  bless  all  of  us,  that  we  may  live  and  prove  faithful  to 
the  end,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Redeemer.    Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE.  S.  ROMNEY 

President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

I  have  been  thrilled,  during  this  Conference,  with  the  testimonies  of 
my  brethren.  I  am  happy  to  report  to  you  that  the  missionaries  in  the 
Northern  States  mission  are  carrying  the  message  of  the  Gospel,  and  the 
testimony  that  the  Lord  has  spoken  again  to  his  people  in  this  day,  and 
that  they  are  doing  it  well.  They  are  faithful  young  men  and  women. 
They  grow  very  rapidly  in  the  testimony  of  the  Gospel  when  they  come 
to  the  mission  field. 

This  last  Sunday  I  listened  to  the  testimony  of  a  young  lady  who 
has  been  only  a  few  months  in  the  mission  field.  She  was  a  very  timid 
girl  when  she  left  home,  and  was  extremely  frightened  when  she  ar- 
rived in  the  mission  field.  It  seemed  almost  beyond  her  strength  to  go 
up  to  the  doors  of  the  people  and  announce  that  she  was  a  member  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Last  Sunday,  in  her 
testimony,  she  stated  that  she  had  never  known  much  about  the  Gospel. 
Just  the  other  day,  however,  she  was  invited  into  a  home  of  very  intelli- 
gent people.  They  asked  her  questions  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  and  it 
seemed  to  her  that  she  did  not  lack  for  an  answer  to  any  of  the  ques- 
tions that  previously  she  had  no  idea  she  could  answer. 

Such  is  the  testimony  of  the  young  men  and  women.  I  received  a 
letter  from  one  of  the  boys  not  long  ago.  He,  too,  was  just  a  young 
man  who  had  had  no  experience  at  home.    He  said : 

"A  non-member  of  the  Church  called  for  us  to  administer  to  a  young  lady 
who  had  been  sick  for  some  time.  We  administered  to  her.  We  were  very  timid 
and  frightened — scarcely  knowing  what  to  say.  In  two  hours  after  the  admin- 
istration the  young  lady  was  up  and  out  at  play,  and  has  been  well  ever  since." 

We  are  very  glad  to  have  the  young  men  and  women  come  into  the 
mission  field,  and  we  trust  that  they  will  come  filled  with  the  spirit  of 
testimony. 

President  Grant  spoke  this  morning  of  the  things  that  are  said  and 
have  been  said  against  him.  I  believe  that  sometimes,  even  in  the  words 
of  those  who  write  and  speak  against  the  prophets  of  the  Lord,  we  have 
some  of  our  strongest  testimonies. 

Just  recently  a  book  came  from  the  press  in  Chicago,  written  by  Mr. 
Beardsley.  Its  newspaper  review  was  entitled :  "A  Drunken  Fiend,  or 
a  Prophet,  or  Mouthpiece  of  God."  The  title  of  the  book  is  "Joseph 
Smith  and  His  Mormon  Empire."  In  this  book  we  have  rehearsed 
again  many  of  the  old  stories  that  have  been  told  about  Joseph  Smith, 
the  Prophet,  derogatory  of  his  character.  He  is  pictured  as  one  of  the 
vilest  of  men.  In  fact,  Mr.  Beardsley  seems  to  find  him  the  "drunken 
fiend."  I  was  surprised,  when  I  read  that  book,  to  notice  some  of  the 
inconsistencies  in  it.     After  picturing  the  prophet  of  the  Lord  as  he 


ELDER  GEORGE  S.  ROMNEY  33 

does,  he  makes  statements  concerning  the  time  just  following  the  driv- 
ing of  the  Saints  from  Missouri  to  this  effect: 

"At  that  time  what  talent  the  little  town  of  Quincy  could  boast!  There  was 
Abraham  Lincoln,  the  future  President  of  the  United  States,  and  the  great  martyr 
of  the  American  people.  There  was  Stephen  A.  Douglas,  who  has  written  his 
name  so  prominently  across  the  pages  of  history.  And  there  was  Mr.  Browning, 
a  senator  and  cabinet  officer.  There  was  Brigham  Young,  whose  name  was  to 
become  a  common  word  upon  the  lips  of  the  American  people,  and  there  was 
Joseph  Smith." 

And  he  said : 

"In  this  company  of  people  who  was  the  dominating  personality?  Was  it 
Abraham  Lincoln?  No.  Was  it  Stephen  A.  Douglas?  No.  Was  it  Mr.  Brown- 
ing, or  Brigham  Young?  No.  It  was  Joseph  Smith,  the  Mormon  Prophet,  a 
fugitive  from  justice." 

It  seems  to  me  that  such  contradictions  in  the  writing  of  those  who 
would  speak  evil  of  the  prophets  of  the  Lord  are  but  testimonies  to  the 
truth  of  this  great  work.  In  the  beginning  of  the  book  Mr.  Beardsley 
refers  to  the  statement  of  Joseph  Smith  .which  the  Prophet  made  when 
he  was  fifteen  years  old,  when  he  said  that  an  angel  told  him  that  his 
name  should  be  known  for  good  and  evil  among  all  nations  of  the  earth. 
It  seemed  strange  to  me  that  Mr.  Beardsley  shovdd  raise  his  voice  and 
take  his  pen,  trained  in  literature  as  he  is,  to  write  a  book  to  help  fulfil 
that  prophecy,  wherein  he  is  doing  his  part  in  making  the  name  of  Joseph 
Smith  known  among  all  the  nations  of  the  earth.  I  feel  that  he  would 
be  much  safer  if  he  were  on  the  right  side  rather  than  on  the  wrong  side. 

I  have  a  testimony  that  the  prophets  of  the  Lord  came  in  this  day, 
and  are  here  yet ;  and  I  know,  as  my  friends  who  have  spoken  before  me, 
that  our  leaders  are  men  of  integrity,  men  of  honor  and  honesty ;  and 
that  this,  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  is  the  truth.  I  trust  that  the  Lord 
will  bless  us,  that  this  testimony  may  sink  into  our  hearts,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.    Amen. 

ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY 

President  of  the  California  Mission 

It  is  my  prayer  that  the  Lord  will  calm  my  spirit  and  lead  me  by 
the  influence  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  I  am  so  new  in  my  field  of  labor 
that  I  feel  that  I  can  hardly  speak  with  the  same  assurance  relative  to 
the  mission,  that  my  associate  presidents  speak  in  regard  to  their  mis- 
sions. It  was  only  late  in  January  of  this  year  that  by  divine  appoint- 
ment, by  prophecy  and  by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  I  was  set  apart  to 
preside  over  the  California  mission. 

It  was  my  great  pleasure  to  be  led  into  that  mission  and  introduced 
to  my  labors  and  installed  under  the  direction  of  Elder  David  O.  McKay. 
As  he  traveled  through  that  mission  rapidly,  spending  some  two  weeks 
visiting  all  of  the  districts,  the  people  flocked  to  hear  him.  Along  his 
route  the  chapels  were  filled.  The  inspiration  of  the  Lord  was  upon  him. 
The  Saints  were  built  up  in  their  faith.    The  Elders  were  instructed  and 


34  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

given  new  high  hopes,  and  impressed  with  the  great  responsibility  that 
rests  upon  them,  and  entered  into  their  labors  with  renewed  diligence. 

But  when  the  two  weeks  were  ended,  and  I  saw  Brother  McKay 
disappear  through  the  gate  at  the  railroad  station,  on  his  way  back  to 
headquarters,  headquarters  seemed  farther  removed  from  California,  to 
me,  than  they  had  seemed  just  a  day  or  two  earlier.  To  me  that  two 
weeks  was,  of  course,  a  schooling  under  a  prophet.  I  have  never  quite 
understood,  as  I  have  read  the  history  of  the  Church,  the  operation,  in 
its  entirety,  of  the  school  of  the  prophets.  I  have  always  thought  that 
it  must  have  been  most  remarkable.  But  I  do  know,  in  a  measure,  what 
it  is  to  be  schooled  under  the  prophets. 

It  has  been  my  great  privilege,  all  the  years  of  my  life,  to  be  rather 
close  in  contact  with  the  Authorities  of  this  Church.  My  father  was  a 
president  of  a  stake  for  twenty-five  years,  and  I  followed  him  as  a  stake 
president  in  the  same  locality  for  twenty-seven  years.  So  in  all  those 
years,  into  our  home — into  my  mother's  home  first  and  later, into  my  own 
home — came  the  Authorities  of  the  Church,  and  thus  I  became  ac- 
quainted with  all  of  them  as  they  traveled  among  the  people  to  direct, 
admonish  and  bless  them ;  and  their  coming  into  our  home  was  a  bless- 
ing. I  have  appreciated  it  all  my  life.  I  appreciate  it  more  today,  I  think, 
than  at  any  other  time  in  my  life.  And  as  I  stand  here,  thinking  of 
what  a  blessing  it  is  to  be  well  born,  to  be  born  into  the  Church  and 
kingdom  of  God,  of  goodly  parents,  today  I  bless  my  mother,  today  I 
bless  my  father,  prince  of  a  man  that  he  was,  carrying  in  his  heart  a 
reverence  for  the  Authorities  of  this  Church.  I  thank  the  Lord  that  his 
reverence  for  the  Authorities  carried  over  into  the  hearts  of  his  children. 

I  thought  when  the  President  was  speaking  this  morning,  that  never 
have  I  heard  in  my  mother's  home,  never  have  I  heard  in  my  own  home 
any  of  the  Authorities  of  this  Church  lightly  spoken  of.  Oh,  ye  Saints, 
beware,  if  in  your  homes  ye  speak  slightingly  of  the  servants  of  the 
living  God !  Rather  that  our  children  should  hear  our  lips  uttering 
prayers  that  come  from  the  heart ;  that  they,  the  servants  of  God,  in  a 
world  of  wickedness  and  strife,  shall  be  sustained  and  led  and  inspired, 
so  that  this  people  shall  be  and  continue  to  be  an  exceptional  people, 
chosen  of  the  Lord  and  led  by  his  servants. 

As  I  minister  with  my  young  brethren  down  in  the  California  mis- 
sion, and  with  the  lady  missionaries,  oh,  I  stand  before  the  Lord  and 
express  my  gratitude  for  those  young  men  and  young  women,  clean  and 
sweet  and  undefiled ;  that  down  in  that  country  of  rapid  and  continuous 
growth,  down  in  that  place  where  everything  seems  to  thrive,  they  are 
not  drawn  away  to  the  right  nor  to  the  left.  They  are  not  afraid.  The 
courage  that  comes  unto  those  young  missionaries  to  stand  up  in  de- 
fense of  the  truth,  and  declare  Jesus  Christ  and  his  ministry,  and  the 
restoration  of  the  Gospel,  and  the  call  of  the  Lord  unto  salvation  unto 
all  those  who  will  hear  it, — I  say  my  soul  thrills. 

It  is  a  new  experience  to  step  down  into  that  field  of  labor,  among 
these  young  men  and  young  women,  just  out  of  a  class  where  I  had  been 
associated  with  high  priests,  mature  and  sweet,  ripened  in  their  expe- 


ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY  35 

rience ;  and  to  touch  these  young  lives  and  to  witness  their  giving  of  all 
that  they  are,  the  strength  of  their  young  manhood  and  womanhood,  to 
the  service  of  God ;  it  is  one  of  the  greatest  testimonies  in  all  the  world. 

As  I  have  gone  through  that  mission,  that  country,  that  beautiful 
country,  from  the  summit  of  the  hills  down  in  and  through  the  valleys, 
everywhere  today  it  is  a  garden  spot,  following  the  rainy  season.  I  have 
driven  past  the  homes  of  the  rich,  the  estates  of  the  wealthy,  and  then 
walked  into  the  homes  and  sat  down  with  the  meek,  the  Latter-day 
Saints ;  and  I  have  questioned  in  my  soul,  I  have  queried :  "When  shall 
the  meek  inherit  the  earth?"  Not  now,  that  is  certain.  The  meek  are 
pushed  aside.    The  grasping,  the  selfish — they  rule  and  dominate. 

But  if  you  wish  to  find  sweetness,  if  you  wish  to  find  contentment, 
if  you  wish  to  find  love,  just  assemble  with  the  meek  who  love  the  Lord 
and  keep  his  commandments,  who  love  the  children  of  the  Lord.  Then 
you  will  say :  Blessed  are  the  meek  now,  and  what  must  their  blessings 
be  when  they  shall  inherit  the  earth?  For  the  earth  and  the  fulness 
thereof  belong  to  the  Lord,  and  he  who  bought  it,  redeemed  it  and  paid 
the  price,  opened  the  way  for  you  and  me  to  become  sons  and  daughters 
of  God.  When  he  comes,  when  he  rules  whose  right  it  is  to  rule,  what 
will  be  our  joy?  The  promise  will  be  fulfilled,  "The  meek  shall  inherit 
the  earth." 

* 

Recently  in  going  through  that  mission,  I  have  gone  into  the  min- 
ing camps,  where  thousands  have  found  their  livelihood  heretofore. 
There  is  no  whistle  that  shrieks  now  and  calls  men  to  work.  The 
smelter  smoke  does  not  ascend  from  those  smoke  stacks,  and  their  towns 
are  like  deserted  villages.  And  I  say  in  my  soul :  I  wonder  if  this  kind 
of  experience  will  not  bring  to  men's  minds  the  invitation  of  the  Lord, 
when  he  said  unto  the  people : 

"Lay  not  up  unto  yourselves  treasures  upon  earth,  where  moth  and  rust  doth 
corrupt,  and  where  thieves  break  through  and  steal : 

"But  lay  up  for  yourselves  treasures  in  heaven,  where  neither  moth  nor  rust 
doth  corrupt,  and  where  thieves  do  not  break  through  nor  steal." 

Uneasy  is  the  head  of  the  man  of  great  estates  and  holdings  today. 
That  for  which  he  has  struggled,  and  from  which  he  has  hoped  to  in- 
herit ease  and  comfort  and  the  power  and  influence  that  come  from 
wealth,  is  now  threatened  and  is  insecure.  He  is  under  anxiety  today. 
No  peace  there.  But  I  bear  testimony  that  there  is  peace  in  the  hearts 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

It  was  my  privilege  not  long  since  to  go  into  one  of  our  branches, 
and  as  I  was  met  at  the  depot  I  was  asked :  "Did  you  know  that 
Brother  Allen  had  died?" 

"Oh,  no.     When  was  that?" 

"Just  now,  in  the  hospital." 

"All  right." 

The  fact  of  that  death  caused  me  to  remain  there  for  three  days. 
For  three  days,  here  and  there,  in  the  parks,  in  the  lobbies,  in  the  stores, 
on  the  streets,  I  heard  people  speaking — not  our  people,  as  we  have  only 
two  hundred  and  fifty  of  our  people  in  that  city.    They  said  :  "That  Mor- 


36  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

mon,  that  man  Allen,  was  a  good  man."  There  was  a  man  that  went 
about  doing  good.     My  soul  rejoiced. 

Oh,  the  power  and  the  influence  of  a  righteous  life !  The  president 
of  a  branch  had  'died.     He  was  a  Latter-day  Saint. 

I  walked  up  to  one  place  and  I  saw  a  magnificent  building,  and  I 
said  to  Brother  Johnson :  "I  wonder,  while  we  wait,  if  we  couldn't 
go  through  this  institution?" 

"Surely,  Brother  Hinckley.     They  let  me  in  there  any  time." 

At  the  head  of  the  institution  was  a  man  named  Seaman.  I  thought : 
"Perhaps  that  could  be  George  A.  Seaman's  kinsman.     I  will  go  in." 

The  first  thing  he  said  when  I  was  introduced  was,  "Do  you  know 
President  Allen?" 

"I  have  never  known  him,  but  I  am  here  to  be  in  attendance  at  his 
funeral." 

"Great  was  that  man,"  said  this  head  of  that  institution.  "He 
came  in  here  and  held  meetings  with  us." 

This  is  briefly  the  story  that  he  gave:  "All  of  the  sects  and  the 
denominations  are  permitted  to  hold  meetings  in  this  institution  on 
Sunday.  When  President  Allen  brought  his  people  in,"  he  said,  "they 
prayed,  they  sang,  and  they  preached  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  We  had 
been  used  to  seeing  them,  when  others  were  here,  play  cards  and  let 
the  radio  go  on ;  but  this  room  became  a  chapel  when  the  Mormons  held 
services  here.  But  it  stirred  up  opposition,  and  my  board  was  pe- 
titioned to  prevent  the  Mormons  from  holding  meetings  in  this  institu- 
tion. What  did  your  president  say?  President  Allen  said,  'No  war, 
no  contention  with  us.  Our  mission  is  peace.  We  have  preached  unto 
you  the  truth,  and  when  you  shut  us  out  you  shut  out  the  word  of  God 
and  the  message  of  salvation.'  Result :  The  inmates  said :  'Where  are 
those  Mormons? 

"  'They  are  not  coming.' 

"'Why  not?' 

"  'The  Board  has  said  they  cannot  come.' 

"Result :  Five  hundred  people  signed  a  petition  and  said :  'We 
want  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  come  in  here  and  hold  their  service.'  " 

The  privilege  was  renewed  and  we  continue  to  hold  services  there, 
and  when  the  funeral  of  that  righteous  man  was  held  the  chapel  was 
filled ;  the  archway  dividing  two  rooms  was  opened,  chairs  were  put  in ; 
hundreds  were  there  to  pay  their  respect  to  the  life  of  a  righteous  man. 

That  is  the  kind  of  message  that  reaches  the  world  when  a  right- 
eous man  manifests  before  God  in  daily  life  the  fruits  of  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

Down  in  the  California  mission,  under  the  wise  leadership  of 
President  Joseph  W.  McMurrin — perhaps  the  only  mission  where  one 
of  the  General  Authorities  has  been  permitted  to  preside  for  years  and 
years,  covering  a  period  of  thirteen  years — he  has  wisely  established 
branches  all  over  Nevada,  Arizona  and  California.  Twelve  thousand 
people  in  their  daily  lives  are  manifesting  unto  the  world  the  fruits  of 
Mormonism,  and  they  are  leavening  the  lump.  And  while  our  mission- 
ary force  has  dropped  from  its  high  peak  of  two  hundred  and  twenty 


ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY  37 

in  1929,  to  fifty-nine  now,  and  while  the  depression  is  forcing  fathers 
and  mothers  to  write  daily:  "Can  you  not  honorably  release  my  son 
or  my  daughter?  We  have  gone  the  limit" — in  other  places,  presidents 
of  stakes  have  written  to  the  president  of  the  mission  and  said :  "Send 
no  Elder  home  for  the  want  of  funds.  When  they  have  reached  their 
limit  notify  us,  for  in  this  stake  no  lady  missionary  and  no  Elder  has 
ever  returned  for  the  want  of  funds." 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  the  quality  of  the  men,  the  quality  of  the 
women,  who  minister  in  that  mission.  It  is  the  choicest  of  the  choice. 
I  love  them  as  I  love  my  own  sons  and  daughters.  They  are  wonderful. 
I  love  those  Saints,  and  I  want  to  bear  testimony  that  in  that  mission 
are  some  of  the  best  Latter-day  Saints  I  have  ever  known.  And  now 
in  answer  to  this  call  for  local  missionary  help  the  presidents  of  those 
branches  have  said :  "We  will  give  you  help ;"  and  I  expect  that  a 
hundred  or  more  will  be  installed  and  divinely  appointed  to  labor  part 
time  to  help  in  this  emergency. 

I  know  the  truth.  I  love  the  truth.  I  hope  to  live  it  to  the  end, 
and  to  be  found  worthy  to  sit  down  with  my  father  and  my  mother, 
saved  in  the  celestial  kingdom  of  God.  May  this  blessing  be  mine  and 
be  yours,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

The  Congregation  arose  and  sang  the  hymn,  "God  moves  in  a 
mysterious  way." 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Up  to  this  point  in  this  General  Conference  I  believe  that  our  meet- 
ings have  been  on  a  par  with  the  meetings  of  previous  General  Confer-, 
ences  of  the  Church,  in  spirit,  instruction  and  interest.  I  have  been 
greatly  edified  myself  and  have  been  made  to  feel  very  grateful  and 
thankful  for  my  membership  in  the  Church,  the  fellowship  that  I  have 
with  the  Latter-day  Saints,  the  knowledge  that  I  have  of  the  Gospel  and 
the  testimony  I  have  of  its  truth ;  for  I  do  know  that  this  is  God's  work, 
the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  this 
knowledge. 

INTEGRITY  OF  STAKE  WORKERS 

The  brethren  who  have  spoken  in  this  conference,  excepting  the 
President  of  the  Church,  have  been  the  mission  presidents,  and  they 
have  spoken  of  conditions  that  obtain  in  the  world,  of  the  faithfulness 
s  of  our  young  missionaries  and  the  integrity  of  the  Saints  in  the  mission 
field.  From  my  knowledge  in  visiting  the  missions  I  can  bear  testimony 
to  what  they  have  said,  and  in  thinking  of  it  I  am  reminded  of  the  in- 
tegrity and  devotion  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  the  stakes  of  Zion.  We 
as  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  visit  them  quite  frequently.  We 
are  always  received  cordially,  and  are  given  a  generous  welcome.  We 
are  treated,  I  may  say,  as  kings  might  expect  to  be  treated,  given  the 
very  best  that  the  people  have  to  give,  and  there  are  evidences  that  they 


38  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

sustain  the  Authorities  of  the  Church,  evidences  of  faith  and  faithful- 
ness as  members  of  the  Church. 

A  great  many  faithful  workers  are  laboring  in  the  stakes  of  Zion, 
men  and  women  who  are  setting  a  worthy  example  before  the  people, 
living  their  religion,  paying  their  tithing,  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
doing  things  that  they  are  asked  to  do,  and  rendering  service  to  God,  to 
the  Church  and  their  fellow  men.  I  am  proud  of  this  people,  thankful 
that  I  am  numbered  with  them,  that  I  have  association  and  fellowship 
with  them,  and  I  believe  I  have  their  confidence  and  support  as  do  all 
of  my  brethren  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church. 

NEED  FOR  IMPROVEMENT 

I  praise  the  Lord  and  thank  him  for  these  blessings,  yet  I  realize 
that  there  is  much  in  Zion  that  ought  not  to  be.  There  are  things  that 
we  engage  in  and  do  as  members  of  the  Church  that  we  ought  not  to  do. 
There  are  duties  that  ought  to  be  performed  that  we  neglect.  I  do  not 
know  whether  the  Lord  is  altogether  pleased  with  us.  I  feel  sure  that 
he  is  pleased  with  the  Church  as  a  church,  and  with  many  of  the  individ- 
uals, but  with  some  I  am  afraid  he  is  not  pleased.  I  am  afraid  that  there 
will  be  disappointment  on  the  part  of  some  members  of  the  Church  when 
this  life's  work  is  finished,  when  our  opportunities  are  past.  Disap- 
pointment is  something  to  be  dreaded  if  not  to  be  feared. 

SATISFACTION  IN  BEING  RIGHT 

There  is  always  a  satisfaction,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  having 
been  right  on  any  question  that  has  engaged  our  attention,  especially  if 
the  wisdom  and  judgment  of  others  have  been  brought  to  bear  upon  that 
question  and  we  have  not  all  agreed.  You  know  how  prone  we  are  to 
say,  "I  told  you  so."  The  more  important  the  question  that  is  involved 
in  a  consideration  of  this  kind,  the  greater  satisfaction  there  will  be  in 
the  end  when  we  find  that  we  have  been  right ;  but  if  on  the  other  hand 
it  is  found  that  we  have  been  wrong  there  will  be  correspondingly  great 
disappointment.  The  importance  of  the  question  involved  determines  the 
amount  of  satisfaction  or  disappointment.  The  greatest  question  that 
man  has  ever  considered,  according  to  my  judgment,  is  that  of  religion,  or 
salvation,  of  what  it  consists  and  how  it  may  be  attained.  There  is  no 
other  question  I  suppose  that  has  engaged  the  attention  of  so  many 
people  or  upon  which  there  has  been  such  diversity  of  opinion.  That 
accounts  for  the  numerous  creeds  and  religious  denominations  that 
there  are  in  the  world  today. 

Those  of  us  who  know  the  truth  of  the  Gospel  as  it  has  been  re- 
vealed in  these  last  days  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith,  know  that  there  are  millions  of  people  who,  in  the  end,  when 
it  shall  be  universally  known  of  what  salvation  consists,  how  it  may  be 
attained,  will  be  tremendously  disappointed,  and  only  the  disappointment 
of  the  wicked  or  those  who  have  fought  against  the  work  of  God  will 
be  greater  or  supreme.  We  who  know  the  truth  and  know  the  will  of  the 
Lord  and  the  law  of  the  Lord,  understand  that  we  are  to  love  the  Lord 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.   RICHARDS  39 

our  God  with  all  our  heart,  with  all  our  soul,  and  with  all  our  might ; 
that  this  is  the  first  great  commandment.  And  the  second  is  like  unto  it : 
"Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself." 

DISCHARGING  OUR  RESPONSIBILITY 

We  ought  to  desire  above  everything  else,  except  our  own  welfare 
and  salvation,  the  welfare  and  salvation  of  our  fellow  men.  We  are 
organized  as  a  Church.  We  have  received  responsibilities  from  on  high 
to  preach  this  Gospel  of  the  kingdom  in  all  the  world  as  a  witness  be- 
fore the  end  shall  come.  For  more  than  a  century  we  have  been  trying 
as  a  people  to  discharge  ourselves  of  this  responsibility  and  prove  our 
love  of  God  and  man  by  making  sacrifice  in  the  preaching  of  this  Gospel. 
You  have  seen  the  results,  and  yet  there  are  but  very  few  of  our  Fath- 
er's children  in  this  dispensation  who  have  embraced  the  Gospel,  but 
that  is  not  to  be  wondered  at.  It  was  ever  so.  Only  a  few  in  the  days 
of  Isaiah,  as  we  read  in  the  fifty-third  chapter  of  the  book  of  Isaiah 
accepted  the  truth.  The  prophet  said :  "Lord,  who  hath  believed  our 
report  ?"  Only  a  few.  And  in  the  days  of  the  primitive  church  we  find 
this  expression: 

"But  they  have  not  all  obeyed  the  gospel.     For  Esaias  saith,  Lord  who  hath 
believed  our  report?" 

This  dispensation  is  a  time  of  warning,  just  as  much,  I  understand, 
as  it  was  a  day  of  warning  when  Noah  the  prophet  of  God  was  com- 
manded to  warn  the  people  of  his  day  that  if  they  did  not  repent  of  their 
sins  and  obey  the  Gospel  they  would  be  destroyed.  We  are  told  that  for 
a  hundred  and  twenty  years  the  prophet  of  God  labored  among  that 
people,  but  in  vain  except  for  the  saving  of  a  few  souls.  A  great  flood 
was  sent  to  destroy  the  people.  I  say  for  more  than  a  century  we  have 
been  preaching  this  Gospel  of  the  kingdom  to  the  people  of  the  world, 
and  the  people  of  the  world  are  rejecting  the  message  in  large  measure, 
excepting  a  very  few.  They  will  meet  with  disappointment  and  in  some 
instances  condemnation,  according  to  the  law  that  has  come  to  those  who 
have  heard  and  have  rejected  the  Gospel. 

SACRIFICE   BRINGS   BLESSINGS 

Now  in  these  times  of  financial  stress  and  business  troubles  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  I  suppose,  are  feeling  these  things  the  same  as  other 
people.  The  Lord  rains  on  the  just  and  the  unjust  alike.  But  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  have  more  to  encourage  them  than  have  the  people  of  the 
world.  We  are  here  not  for  the  gaining  of  wealth.  That  is  not  the  end 
in  view,  but  a  means  to  a  nobler  end,  that  of  serving  God  and  working 
righteousness,  striving  to  save  our  own  souls  and  the  souls  pf  others ; 
and  we  can  afford  to  make  the  sacrifices  that  the  Gospel  entails  upon  us. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  know  that  we  have  the  promise,  and  God's 
promises  never  fail,  that  we  shall  be  rewarded  abundantly  in  time  and  in 
eternity  for  all  the  sacrifices  made  for  the  accomplishment  of  his  pur- 
poses.    For  the  past. number  of  years  we  have  maintained  in  the  neigh- 


40  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

borhood  of  two  thousand  missionaries  in  the  field ;  the  report  is  made 
today  that  we  have  seventeen  hundred  and  two  missionaries  out.  You 
have  heard  the  report  of  these  mission  presidents,  how  the  numbers  have 
been  depleted  in  their  mission  fields.  What  are  we  going  to  do  to  keep 
up  our  record  and  do  the  work  the  Lord  requires  at  our  hands  ?  I  have 
a  recommendation  for  our  mission  presidents. 

LOCAL  SAINTS  AS   MISSIONARIES 

Some  of  the  presidents  told  us  in  our  meeting  with  them  a  few  days 
ago  that  they  were  using  the  local  brethren  and  sisters,  some  in  one  way 
and  some  in  another.  In  the  closing  remarks  of  President  Hinckley  of 
the  California  mission,  who  has  just  addressed  us,  he  said  he  expected 
the  branches  in  his  mission  to  ,furnish  a  hundred  local  people  to  assist 
in  this  work.  I  want  to  relate  to  you  a  little  experience  I  had  in  presid- 
ing over  the  European  mission  during  the  World  War.  I  was  there 
from  August  of  1916  until  July  of  1919.  During  that  time  in  the  British 
mission  the  number  of  missionaries  from  home  was  reduced  from  seven- 
ty-five to  seven,  including  those  who  were  in  the  mission  headquarters. 
We  had  seventy-five  branches  that  had  formerly  been  presided  over  al- 
most universally  by  Elders  from  home.  Those  were  now  presided  over  by 
local  men  .  Men  who  were  able  to  bear  arms  had  been  drafted  into  the 
service,  ,and  those  who  were  not  entered  the  factories  for  the  manu- 
facture of  munitions  of  war.  There  were  very  few  men  left  at  home. 
We  called  as  missionaries  young  men  who  were  not  old  enough  to  bear 
arms. 

When  I  left  that  mission  there  were  twenty-two  local  brethren 
laboring  in  the  manner  referred  to,  some  of  them  giving  part  time,  pre- 
siding over  districts  or  branches,  others  giving  their  entire  time  as  mis- 
sionaries. We  called  into  the  service  young  women  and  married  women, 
and  at  one  time,  as  I  remember  it,  we  had  three  hundred  and  seventy- 
five  of  these  good  sisters  working.  They  rendered  their  reports  to  mis- 
sion headquarters  the  same  as  the  missionaries  had  done  who  were  from 
home.  They  distributed  tracts,  they  held  cottage  meetings,  loaned  books, 
and  did  all  the  work  that  regular  missionaries  did.  The  result  was  that 
these  missionaries  were  more  faithful  than  ever  before.  The  tithing  of 
the  British  mission  just  about  doubled  itself  in  three  years.  We  had 
almost  as  many  baptisms  as  had  been  the  case  when  we  had  seventy-five 
or  more  missionaries  in  the  field. 

It  shows  what  can  be  done  with  these  local  men  and  women  in  the 
world.  They  are  just  the  same  kind  of  people  we  have  here  in  the  stakes 
and  wards.  In  every  nation  he  that  fears  God  and  works  righteousness 
is  approved  of  him.  I  see  no  reason  why  men  and  women  in  the  mis- 
sion field  should  not  labor  in  the  Church  as  missionaries  or  in  any  other 
capacity  where  they  are  needed,  just  as  well  as  the  people  in  organized 
wards  and  stakes.  They  are  doing  it  in  some  places.  There  are  some 
missionaries  called  from  one  mission  to  another.  Why  not  the  mission 
supply  its  quota  of  missionaries  and  send  them  out  into  other  missions  ? 
These  lady  missionaries  are  doing  a  .splendid  work  in  all  the  missions 
where  they  are  used.    There  are  ladies  locally  who  are  just  as  efficient 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.   RICHARDS  41 

as  those  who  go  from  the  stakes  and  are  willing  and  could  be  used  to 
advantage  if  we  would  make  use  of  them. 

I  remember  two  years  ago  when  I  was  going  through  the  Canadian 
mission  with  President  Hart,  at  Hamilton  we  called  for  volunteer  lady 
missionaries  to  accompany  those  who  were  there  from  Zion.  Instead  of 
sending  out  two  lady  missionaries  from  Zion  who  were  there  at  such 
great  expense,  it  was  suggested  that  we  take  one  of  these  lady  mission- 
aries and  a  local  missionary,  and  have  two  sets  of  missionaries  where 
formerly  we  had  but  one.  Several  sisters  volunteered.  We  blessed  these 
people  and  set  them  apart  and  we  have  reports  that  a  splendid  work  was 
accomplished  by  those  local  sisters.  Why  can  we  not  do  this,  and  double 
the  number  of  missionaries  ?  Suppose  a  woman  cannot  give  all  her  time, 
if  one  sister  would  go  out  one  day  and  another  another  day,  if  it  took 
seven  sisters  to  do  a  week's  work  along  the  side  of  a  regular  missionary, 
the  work  would  be  accomplished.  Why  not  do  the  same  with  our 
brethren? 

I  heard  an  Elder  reporting  his  mission  recently  who  said  he  tried 
out  the  plan  of  taking  a  little  boy  and  giving  him  a  tract  and  letting  him 
lead  up  to  the  doors  of  homes,  and  it  had  a  splendid  effect.  They  would 
not  shut  the  door  on  him  or  deny  him.  They  would  hear  what  he  had  to 
say,  and  his  message  would  be  an  introduction  for  the  missionary.  T 
say  that  ,in  that  case  the  little  boy  was  the  equal  of  the  Elder  from  home. 
When  they  go  into  a  home  there  is  no  need  for  two  Elders  from  Zion  in 
that  home  to  preach  the  Gospel,  one  can  do  all  the  talking ;  all  he  needs 
is  a  companion  and  a  witness,  and  here  we  have  one. 

There  are  ways  and  means,  and  I  believe  that  God  expects  us  to  be 
thoughtful  men  who  have  charge  of  this  work  in  the  mission  field  and 
at  home.  I  think  we  can  perhaps  do  better  than  we  have  been  doing, 
and,  brethren  and  sisters,  all  this  means  that  we  wash  our  hands  clean 
of  the  blood  of  this  generation,  for  we  are  as  watchmen  upon  the  tow- 
ers. Our  responsibility  is  to  warn  the  wicked  and  to  call  them  to  repent- 
ance and  to  preach  this  Gospel  of  the  kingdom  to  those  who  are  in  spirit- 
ual darkness. 

A  wonderful  work  is  being  accomplished.  May  God  be  praised  for 
it  and  the  Saints  for  the  work  they  have  done,  and  may  this  work  go 
forward  to  the  entire  satisfaction  of  the  Lord,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  am  glad  to  know  that  there  are  people  in  the  world  who  are  not 
discouraged.  For  months  it  has  been  my  privilege  to  be  in  different 
parts  of  our  country  and  it  is  rare  that  one  finds  those  who  are  not  ex- 
ceedingly pessimistic,  because  of  conditions  over  which  we  seem  to  have 
no  control.  Men  and  women  are  unemployed  and  in  many  cases  they 
will  be  in  dire  distress  unless  ways  and  means  be  prepared  for  them  to 


42  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

earn  their  living.  The  wise  men  of  the  earth  are  seeking  to  find  some  way 
whereby  this  difficulty  may  be  overcome.  Quite  recently  the  most  ter- 
rible war  of  all  time  occurred,  and  when  that  was  finished  many  people 
thought  that  would  be  the  end  of  war.  At  present  there  is  suspicion 
and  jealousy  among  the  nations  of  the  earth.  There  are  groups  that  are 
preparing  to  take  by  force  what  they  cannot  obtain  by  honest  toil,  and 
"Men's  hearts  are  failing  them  for  fear." 

These  things  have  been  predicted.  We  have  been  told  that  in  the 
last  days  serious  difficulties  would  arise,  and  before  that  time  the  true 
Gospel  would  be  preached. 

BLESSINGS  FOLLOW  OBEDIENCE 

In  the  year  1830  this  Church  with  which  we  are  identified  was 
organized.  It  was  patterned  after  the  Church  that  had  been  organized 
by  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord  on  the  other  side  of  the  mighty  ocean.  It  was 
intended  to  prepare  people  for  the  things  which  were  to  come,  and  hun- 
dreds and  thousands  have  rejoiced  in  the  blessings  that  have  followed 
obedience  to  the  teachings  of  our  Lord  and  obedience  to  the  laws  that 
govern  his  Church. 

IN  THE  DAYS  OF  NOAH 

It  has  been  remarkable  to  me  as  I  have  read  the  history  of  the 
world,  both  religious  and  secular,  that  the  children  of  men  so  easily  for- 
get the  Lord  and  turn  away  from  him.  In  ancient  times  it  became  nec- 
essary for  Noah  to  go  about  teaching  the  truth  for  more  than  a  hun- 
dred years,  and  yet  people  rejected  him  and  his  message  and  the  pre- 
diction that  he  made  that  they  would  suffer  the  penalty  that  always  fol- 
lows disobedience  to  God.  They  were  drowned  in  the  flood.  History 
discloses  the  fact  that  whenever  people  have  served  God  and  kept  his 
commandments  they  prospered,  and  when  they  turned  away  from  him 
and  lost  their  faith  they  fell  into  transgression  and  they  suffered  the 
punishment  that  they  merited  by  reason  of  their  disobedience.  That  is 
not  only  true  of  the  nations  that  have  dwelt  upon  the  European  lands 
and  in  Asia  and  in  Africa,  but  it  has  been  true  of  those  who  have  dwelt 
upon  this  hemisphere. 

THE  ANCIENT  INHABITANTS  OF  AMERICA 

When  the  Lord  prepared  to  people  this  land,  Ether  and  his  group 
crossed  the  mighty  ocean.  This  was  soon  after  the  confusion  of  tongues 
at  Babel.  They  were  not  able  of  their  own  wisdom  to  cross  the  ocean, 
but  the  Lord  taught  them  how  they  might  make  barges,  how  they  should 
provide  themselves  with  food ;  and  then  under  the  guidance  of  his  Holy 
Spirit  they  migrated  to  this  great  western  hemisphere  and  were  pros- 
pered. Then  they  forsook  the  Lord  and  fell  into  transgression,  and  the 
result  was  that  as  a  people  they  were  destroyed.  Then  another  people 
came,  about  six  hundred  years  before  the  birth  of  our  Savior,  under 
Lehi.  They  came  to  this  western  land  led  as  had  been  the  other  people 
by  the  power  of  God.     When  they  observed  the  commandments  of  the 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  43 

Lord  they  were  happy,  and  when  they  transgressed  they  suffered  the 
penalty  which  always  follows  disobedience  of  the  laws  of  our  Heavenly 
Father.  They  separated  into  two  groups  after  they  arrived  here,  and 
while  they  became  numerous  upon  the  face  of  the  earth  there  was  a 
large  portion  of  them  who  did  not  serve  the  Lord,  and  eventually  they 
became  so  wicked  that  the  Nephites  or  fair-skinned  people  perished, 
being  destroyed  by  the  Red  Man.  They  had  builded  great  cities  and 
wonderful  things  were  accomplished  by  those  who  kept  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord,  but  those  who  would  not  obey  him  dwelt  in  idle- 
ness, or  in  a  way  that  compelled  them,  if  they  would  live,  to  take  that 
which  belonged  to  others.  The  Lord  blessed  those  who  honored  him 
and  kept  his  commandments  as  long  as  they  were  faithful,  but  eventually 
they  were  entirely  destroyed,  leaving  their  records  buried  in  the  earth, 
where  they  remained  until  they  were  delivered  to  the  prophet  Joseph 
Smith.    History  has  repeated  itself  many  times. 

THE  RESULT  OF  DISOBEDIENCE 

In  several  places  in  the  scriptures  we  read  that  "the  wisdom  of  their 
wise  men  shall  perish,  and  the  understanding  of  their  prudent  men  shall 
be  hid,"  and  in  the  day  and  age  in  which  we  live  that  is  very  plainly 
manifested  to  the  children  of  men.  The  condition  that  has  come  upon 
the  earth  is  not  the  result  of  righteousness;  it  is  the  result  of  disobedi- 
ence to  the  laws  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  and  we  as  members  of  this 
Church  have  been  warned  of  what  was  to  come.  We  have  not  only  been 
warned  by  the  scriptures  that  were  given  in  the  days  of  the  Savior  and 
prior  to  his  time,  and  those  that  were  given  after  him,  but  in  our  own 
day  and  age  the  Lord  has  spoken  and  the  revelations  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  are  found  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  If  we  will  read  these 
revelations  we  will  learn  that  the  experiences  through  which  we  are 
passing  were  predicted,  that  the  very  promises  that  the  Lord  made  are 
now  being  fulfilled. 

It  does  seem  strange  that  so  many  of  our  Father's  children  think 
they  are  finding  satisfaction  in  doing  things  that  are  wrong.  The  dis- 
tress of  the  world  today  is  very  largely  because  men  have  turned  from 
the  teachings  of  the  Lord.  Men  are  seeking  the  wealth  of  the  world, 
and  it  appears  to  make  little  difference  to  some  of  them  how  they  ob- 
tain it.  They  cannot  take  it  with  them.  The  things  that  they  obtain  by 
selfishness  will  not  be  beneficial  to  them.  For  thousands  of  years  the 
Lord  has  been  teaching  this  lesson,  yet  today  it  seems  to  me  that  men 
and  women  are  as  disobedient,  as  unthankful  and  unholy  as  they  have 
ever  been  in  any  period  of  the  world's  history. 

THE   ONLY   REMEDY 

The  message  that  the  Lord  has  given  to  the  earth,  that  we  have 
been  asked  to  disseminate,  is  the  only  rule  of  conduct  whereby  this  diffi- 
culty may  be  removed.  By  following  the  teachings  of  the  Lord,  by 
turning  unto  him  and  repenting  of  sin,  by  going  about  doing  good — 
that  attitude  will  bring  happiness  and  prosperity.     Mankind  will  love 


44  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

one  another,  and  the  hatred  and  the  unkindness  that  have  existed  so 
much  in  the  world  will  pass  away.  The  Lord  has  not  required  some- 
thing that  is  impossible.  On  the  contrary,  he  has  given  us  command- 
ments and  advice  and  counsel  that  it  is  possible  for  all  of  us  to  follow 
in  this  clay  and  age  in  which  we  live.  The  daily  press  brings  to  us  ac- 
counts of  disasters  that  are  everywhere — the  sea  being  tempestuous  and 
loss  of  life  upon  it,  earthquakes,  great  tornadoes,  such  as  we  have  been 
told  would  occur  in  the  last  days — and  it  does  seem  to  me,  brethren  and 
sisters,  if  men  are  thinking  seriously,  if  they  are  reading  the  scriptures, 
they  must  know  that  the  happenings  that  the  Lord  said  would  occur  in 
the  last  days  are  occurring.  The  fig  tree  surely  is  putting  forth  its 
leaves,  and  those  who  are  thoughtful  must  know  that  the  summer  is 
nigh,  that  those  things  that  the  Lord  has  predicted  as  preceding  his  sec- 
ond coming  are  now  coming  to  pass. 

As  we  sit  in  this  comfortable  house  today  and  enjoy  the  teachings 
that  have  been  given  to  us  under  the  influence  and  power  of  our  Heav- 
enly Father,  how  grateful  we  ought  to  be  for  our  blessings,  for  the  fact 
that  the  Lord  has  removed  from  us  uncertainty.  There  should  be  no 
doubt  in  the  minds  of  this  congregation  as  to  what  the  Lord  desires. 
There  should  be  no  uncertainty  in  our  minds  as  to  how  we  may  be 
happy.  There  is  only  one  way  that  we  can  enjoy  our  lives,  and  that  is 
by  being  obedient  to  the  teachings  of  an  all-wise  Father  who  knows  the 
end  from  the  beginning  and  has  given  to  us  understanding  and  the 
opportunity  to  add  to  that  understanding  and  to  prepare  for  every 
vicissitude  of  life. 

COMFORTS    IN    ABUNDANCE 

Isn't  it  a  singular  thing  that  what  the  world  has  struggled  for  from 
the  beginning,  wealth,  power,  all  those  things  that  make  men  comfort- 
able, are  to  be  had  in  abundance  today — better  and  more  clothing  than 
ever  before,  more  food  than  can  be  consumed,  more  wealth  of  all  kinds 
than  the  world  has  ever  had  before.  Our  homes  are  more  comfortable. 
The  conveniences  of  life  have  been  multiplied  marvelously  since  the 
Gospel  came  upon  the  earth,  and  today  everything  that  we  have  strug- 
gled for  we  have.  Education  has  arrived  at  its  highest  point.  More 
knowledge  of  the  things  of  this  earth  is  possessed  by  men  than  ever 
before.  Everything  mankind  has  struggled  for  from  the  beginning  of 
time  that  is  considered  most  desirable  is  upon  the  earth  today ;  and  not- 
withstanding that,  there  is  doubt  and  dread  of  what  the  future  has  in 
store. 

THE   CAUSE  AND  CURE 

What  is  our  trouble  ?  It  is  that  we  have  sought  the  creature  com- 
forts, we  have  sought  the  honors  of  men,  we  have  sought  those  things 
that  selfishness  puts  into  our  souls.  We  have  sought  to  set  ourselves  up 
and  have  preferred  ourselves  to  our  Father's  other  children.  I  am 
speaking  now  of  the  world.  We  have  ignored  the  commandments  that 
we  should  honor  God  and  keep  his  commandments,  that  we  should  love 
our  neighbors.    We  have  failed  to  pray  in  the  way  that  we  were  taught 


ELDER    GEORGE    ALBERT    SMITH  45 

to  pray,  and  men  and  women  have  set  their  judgment  up  against  the 
teachings  of  an  all-wise  Father,  and  of  course  we  are  paying  the  price. 

Now  if  we  would  enjoy  the  blessings  that  the  Lord  has  prepared 
for  us,  the  things  that  we  have  struggled  for,  there  is  yet  something 
else  for  us  to  do,  and  that  is  to  love  one  another.  That  is  to  honor 
God  and  keep  his  commandments,  obey  the  laws  of  the  land  in  which 
we  live,  be  considerate  of  one  another,  observe  the  teachings  that  have 
been  given  to  us  from  the  beginning  of  the  world ;  and  if  we  will  do 
that  all  our  problems  will  be  solved.  The  wisdom  of  men  will  be  added 
upon,  the  power  of  God  will  come  upon  his  children,  and  this  earth  will 
be  cleansed  and  purified  from  the  evils  that  exist  that  are  rapidly  de- 
stroying humanity. 

Knowing  that,  brethren  and  sisters,  we  ought  to  be  faithful.  The 
land  that  we  live  in  should  be  sanctified  by  our  lives  of  righteousness, 
and  we  should  go  about  doing  good.  There  should  be  no  doubt  in  our 
minds  as  to  the  power  of  God  to  safeguard  our  interests.  We  know 
that  he  can  do  that,  and  in  this  wonderful  Church,  with  its  marvelous 
organization,  with  the  authority  of  the  holy  priesthood  bestowed  upon 
thousands  of  our  Father's  sons,  with  these  marvelous  organizations  that 
are  given  for  the  training  of  our  youth — our  Primary,  our  Mutuals, 
our  Sabbath  Schools,  our  Relief  Society  organization,  our  educational 
facilities — there  is  everything  that  should  prepare  us  to  know  what  God 
would  have  us  do  here.  All  that  we  need  is  to  repent  of  our  sins,  turn 
from  the  error  of  our  ways,  cleanse  our  lives  of  impurity,  and  then  to 
go  about  doing  good.  It  does  not  require  that  we  shall  be  set  apart  for 
that  purpose.  Every  man,  woman  and  child  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  may  go  about  doing  good  and  receive  the  blessing  that  results 
therefrom. 

OUR   MISSION 

Looking  back  through  the  experiences  of  those  who  have  lived  upon 
the  earth,  and  remembering  the  privations  and  afflictions  of  those  na- 
tions that  have  turned  away  from  our  Heavenly  Father,  let  us  not  be 
among  those  who  unwisely  and  foolishly  set  our  judgment  up  against 
the  wisdom  of  the  Lord.  Let  us  acknowledge  his  wisdom,  let  us  set  our 
hands  to  the  work  that  he  has  entrusted  to  our  care,  let  us  bless  our 
Father's  children  wherever  they  may  be,  and  our  lives  will  be  enriched 
and  this  world  will  be  made  happier.  This  is  the  mission  that  has  been 
placed  upon  our  shoulders.  Our  Heavenly  Father  will  hold  us  responsi- 
ble for  the  manner  in  which  we  fulfil  it.  God  grant  that  in  the  hu- 
mility of  our  souls  we  will  go  about  with  the  desire  in  our  hearts  to  do 
good  to  all  people  wherever  they  may  be,  and  bring  to  them  the  joy  that 
can  only  come  through  observing  his  laws  and  keeping  his  command- 
ments. That  peace  may  abide  in  our  hearts  and  in  our  homes,  that  we 
may  radiate  sunshine  and  cheer  wherever  we  may  go,  that  we  may 
prove  to  the  world  that  we  do  know  that  God  lives,  by  the  lives  that  we 
lead,  and  receive  his  blessings  therefor,  I  humbly  pray"  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 


46  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  auditor's  report  was  not  included  in  the  statistics  given  by  me 
this  morning.    It  is  as  follows  : 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
April  4th,  1932. 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  and  Counselors, 
Dear  Brethren: — 

It  gives  us  pleasure  to  state  that  our  examination  of  the  reports 
of  the  First  Presidency's  office,  which  cover  the  Presiding  Bishop's 
department,  discloses  the  fact  that  the  Church  is  entirely  out  of  debt. 
The  accounting  system  of  the  Church  is  modern  and  complete. 

Respectfully  submitted, 
Henry  H.  Rolapp, 
O.  W.  Adams, 
John  W.  Hart, 

Auditing    Committee. 

The  hymn,  "Zion  stands  with  hills  surrounded,"  was  sung  by  the 
congregation,  after  which  the  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  John 
M.  Baxter,  former  president  of  the  Woodruff  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock,  Saturday,  April  9th. 


SECOND  DAY 

MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Saturday  morning,  April  9th,  at  10  o'clock, 
with  President  Heber  J.  Grant  presiding. 

The  hymn,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints,"  was  sung  by  the  congregation. 

Elder  Abel  John  Evans  offered  the  opening  prayer. 

A  sacred  solo,  "The  Penitent,"  was  sung  by  Sister  PSertha  Sessions. 

ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  can  assure  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  friends,  that  I  feel 
keenly  the  responsibility  of  this  position.  I  rejoice  with  you  in  the 
spirit  of  the  Conference  sessions  that  we  have  had  and  the  instruction 
and  testimony  that  have  been  given  to  us. 

GUIDANCE   OF   THE   HOLY   SPIRIT 

I  appreciate  the  fact  that  we  are  living  in  important  times,  and 
that  it  is  proper  for  us  so  to  live  and  act  that  we  may  be  guided  by 
the  influence  and  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  The  Lord  has  promised  to 
all  of  us  who  have  taken  upon  us  his  name,  who  have  been  baptized 
in  water  and  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  that  if  we  will  live  in 
accordance  with  his  commandments  we  shall  enjoy  the  light  of  his 
Spirit  to  guide  us.  Surely  there  has  never  been  a  time  in  the  history 
of  the  Church  when  that  guidance  was  so  necessary  for  every  individual. 

We  have 'our  free  agency.  We  shall  be  responsible  for  the  deeds 
that  we  perform  and  for  the  failure  to  perform  those  things  that  will 
be  for  our  progress  and  development.  The  Lord  is  desirous  that  every 
one  of  us  shall  go  forward,  do  his  will,  keep  his  commandments,  and 
enjoy  his  blessings. 

I  realize  the  fact  that  if  we  will  listen  to  the  whisperings  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  and  be  alert  to  follow  promptly  that  inspiration  that  may 
come  to  us  from  time  to  time,  we  shall  be  enabled  to  avoid  difficulties 
and  troubles,  and  have  joy,  satisfaction  and  contentment  in  our  daily 
lives. 

CHURCH    ADVANCEMENT 

I  rejoice  in  the  leadership  of  this  Church.  I  realize  that  they 
are  men  who  are  inspired  of  God  to  advise  and  counsel  us  in  the  way 
of  truth  and  progress.  1  am  sure  that  if  ,we  will  listen  to  them  and 
observe  to  do  what  they  suggest  to  us,  we  shall  be  able  to  make  satis- 
factory progress. 

I  was  impressed  with  the  instructions  and  the  report  given  by  our 
President  at  the  beginning  of  this  Conference.     As  was  stated  by  him. 


48  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

the  Church  is  growing  in  membership,  and  it  is  growing  in  activity. 
It  is  true  that  the  tithes  in  total  have  not  been  so  large  this  past  year 
as  the  previous  year.  Yet  there  are  instances  in  various  stakes  and 
missions  where  there  has  been  an  increase  in  tithes.  There  has  been 
an  increase  in  the  number  of  tithepayers  in  the  Church.  There  has  been 
quite  a  material  increase  in  the  fast  offerings  donated  for  the  benefit 
of  the  poor.  I  am  quite  sure  that  the  spirit  of  the  present  prevailing 
conditions  has  influenced  many  who  may  have  been  neglectful,  possibly, 
or  inappreciative  of  conditions  of  unemployment,  in  the  realization  of 
the  fact  that  we  should  donate  more  liberally  for  those  in  need  in  these 
times.  The  result  has  been  somewhat  more  evident  in  the  observance 
of  the  fast  offerings. 

PRIESTHOOD  ACTIVITY 

It  is  to  be  noted  that  the  activity  of  the  priesthood  is  increasing. 
I  am  particularly  familiar  with  the  Aaronic  priesthood,  and  that  interest 
is  evident.  We  are  striving  in  cooperation  with  the  stake  presidencies, 
ward  bishoprics,  mission  presidents,  and  all  others  who  are  concerned 
with  the  welfare  and  progress  of  this  important  work,  to  stimulate  the 
young  men  who  receive  this  priesthood,  to  greater  faith  and  activity 
and  an  appreciation  of  the  blessings  that  come  through  the  fulfilment 
of  their  responsibilities  in  the  Aaronic  priesthood. 

Also,  in  other  respects,  the  work  of  the  Church  is  increasing.  In 
the  matter  of  ward  teaching,  this  important  labor  has  been  carried 
on  to  a  larger  extent,  month  by  month,  in  all  of  the  various  stakes  and 
wards  throughout  the  Church. 

BUILDING  CONSTRUCTION 

With  reference  to  building  construction,  the  (Church  spent,  as 
was  reported  by  President  Grant,  over  a  half  million  dollars  last  year 
in  the  erection  of  ward  buildings.  That  amount  has  been  matched  by 
the  labor  and  the  cash  subscriptions  of  members  of  the  Church  and 
others  in  the  various  wards  that  have  built  meeting  houses ;  so  that, 
in  total,  the  expenditures  for  this  purpose  aggregate  a  very  considerable 
sum.  I  believe  that  there  has  been  more  care  exercised  on  the  part  of 
those  who  have  had  charge  of  building  construction  in  the  various  wards, 
to  see  that  the  funds  were  efficiently  expended.  I  am  sure  that, 
throughout  the  various  wards  and  stakes,  consistent  efforts  are  being 
made  to  exercise  the  greatest  economy  possible  in  this,  as  in  every  other 
phase  of  material  affairs  in  the  Church. 

CLARITY    OF    CONSCIENCE 

In  connection  with  the  matter  that  I  have  referred  to,  of  cultivating 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  I  am  reminded  of  a  maxim,  adopted  by  George 
Washington,  whose  two-hundredth  anniversary  we  are  celebrating  this 
entire  year,  as  a  rule  of  conduct  for  him  as  a  young  man.  I  think  the 
last  one  of  the  rules  of  conduct'  that  he  adopted  is  as  follows :  "Labor 
to  keep  alive  in  your  breast  that  little  spark  of  celestial  fire  called 
conscience."    The  development  of  conscience  is  one  of  the  most  helpful 


ELDER   SYLVESTER    Q.    CANNON  49 

means  to  promote  right  living  and  fair  dealing.  I  am  sure  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  are  possessed  of  that  spark  of  celestial  fire.  As  a 
result  of  developing  the  spirit  of  frankness,  of  stimulating . the  sense  of 
right  and  wrong,  of  not  allowing  their  consciences  to  be  dulled  by  those 
things  which  interfere  with  straightforwardness  and  uprightness,  they 
are  in  a  position  to  have  that  sense  touched  by  the  influence  and  power 
of  the  Holy  Spirit,  to  lead  them  in  righteousness  and  faith  and  truth. 

A   TIME  OF  TRIAL 

We  live  in  times  when  we  are  being  tested  and  proven.  All  the 
dross,  all  that  is  not  pure  metal  is,  so  to  speak,  being  burned  up  or 
skimmed  off,  leaving  the  pure  metal.  To  the  extent'  that  mankind 
have  had  to  undergo  trials  and  suffering,  and  that  they  have,  in  courage 
and  faith,  made  sacrifice  of  material  things  that  they  have  previously 
enjoyed,  they  have  emerged  so  much  stronger  and  finer.  I  believe 
adverse  conditions  are  bringing  men  generally  to  an  understanding  of 
the  elementals  of  life;  and  to  a  better  appreciation  of  the  measure  of 
the  values  of  things  which  really  count  in  life. 

THE    POWER   OF    TRUE    RELIGION 

I  am  impressed  with  the  fact  that  the  acceptance  of  this  Gospel 
involves  our  willingness  to  deny  ourselves,  if  necessary,  of  anything 
that  we  may  be  called  upon  to  sacrifice.  I  am  reminded  of  a  statement 
made  in  one  of  the  Lectures  on  Faith  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants. 
Though  the  lectures  are  not  accepted  by  us  as  revelation,  yet  we  are 
told  they  were  prepared  by  the  Prophet'  Joseph,  and  were  for  the  benefit 
of  the  people  of  the  Church.    This  statement  is  as  follows: 

"A  religion  that  does  not  require  the  sacrifice  of  all  things  never 
has  power  sufficient  to  produce  the  faith  necessary  unto  life  and  salva- 
tion." 

Abraham's  willingness  to  sacrifice 

Now,  that  is  a  very  strong  saying.  Yet,  the  experiences  of  some  of 
those  of  whom  we  have  record,  who  have  developed  great  spiritual 
power,  demonstrate  the  fact  that  sacrifice  has  produced  such  results  in 
their  lives.  I  am  reminded  of  Abraham,  who  was  told  by  the  Lord  to 
take  his  son — the  son  of  promise — born  to  him  in  his  old  age,  through 
whom  the  divine  assurance  to  Abraham  regarding  his  posterity  should 
be  fulfilled,  and  offer  him  as  a  sacrifice.  When  this  son  was  grown  to 
be  a  youth  his  father  was  told  by  the  Lord  to  offer  him  as  a  sacrifice 
upon  Mount  Moriah.  Abraham  did  so.  He  took  his  son  to  that  place 
and  there  was  prepared  to  do  what  the  Lord  had  commanded.  He 
had  proven  his  determination  to  carry  out  the  will  of  the  Lord,  even 
though  it  meant  the  taking  of  the  life  of  his  son. 

There  are  those  who  would  utter  condemnation  against  such  a 
course,  as  being  contrary  to  all  equity  and  righteousness.  Yet  Abraham 
recognized  that  the  Lord  had  the  power  to  give  and  to  take  away. 
He  had  that  confidence  in  the  Lord  that  the  course  of  life  that  he  was 
pursuing,  and  the  instruction  he  was  receiving  from  God,  were  such 


50  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

that  the  Lord  could  save  his  son's  life  if  it  were  necessary.  So  he 
proved  his  willingness  to  sacrifice  the  life  of  his  beloved  son.  But 
when  it  came  to  the  final  test,  after  he  had  proven  himself,  the  Lord 
did  not  require  that  sacrifice  at  his  hands.  However,  he  did  greatly 
magnify  Abraham,  and  he  became,  we  are  told,  the  friend  of  God, 
because  of  his  sacrifice  and  his  faith.  He  mingled  with  the  great  of  the 
earth  at  that  time,  and  was  recognized  by  them  as  a  power.  Among 
the  Mohammedans  today  Abraham  is  recognized  as  the  greatest  prophet 
of  all.  Likewise,  among  the  Hebrews  and  Christians,  he  is  recognized 
as  a  wonderful  man. 

THE  SAVIOR'S   GREAT  SACRIFICE 

Now,  another  example  is  that  of  the  Savior  himself.  He  was 
called  upon  to  sacrifice  his  life  because  it  was  the  will  of  God.  It  was 
his  mission.  He  had  the  assurance  that  the  course  of  life  he  was 
pursuing  was  pleasing  to  God.  The  final  achievement  of  his  mortal 
life  was  to  undergo  that  atoning  sacrifice  for  the  redemption  of  mankind. 
He  realized  the  terrible  agony  that  he  would  have  to  suffer,  as  well  as 
the  mental  crucifixion  that  he  must  endure  through  the  shame  and  ridi- 
cule that  was  to  be  heaped  upon  him.  Yet  he  was  prepared  to  accept 
and  undergo  the  sacrifice  that  was  before  him.  Thereby  he  became 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world ;  and  the  mediator  between  men  and  God. 
He  is  the  one  who  stands  between  us  and  our  eternal  Father.  Through 
him  alone  can  we  gain  the  resurrection  and  come  to  salvation  by  the 
acceptance  of  his  teachings,  and  the  observance  of  his  commandments. 

MARTYRDOM    OF  THE  PROPHET  JOSEPH 

There  have  been  others  who  have  been  called  upon  to  make  great 
sacrifice  for  their  devotion  to  divine  truth.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
demonstrated  in  his  life  the  very  thing  that  is  contained  in  the  statement, 
that  only  that  religion  which  has  the  power  to  call  for  the  sacrifice  of 
all  things,  even  of  life  itself,  if  necessary,  has  the  power  to  produce 
the  faith  necessary  to  bring  mankind  to  life  and  salvation.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  went  to  his  martyrdom  assured  that  the  faith  he  possessed  and 
the  principles  that  he  had  adopted  were  of  God.  He  (had  had  the 
assurance  from  the  Lord  himself,  from  his  personal  visitation  to  him, 
that  he  should  become  an  instrument  in  his  hands  for  the  accomplish- 
ment of  divine  purposes.  Through  his  faith  and  .sacrifice  we  under- 
stand that  he  is  appointed  to  stand  at  the  head  of  this  last  dispensation. 

I  do  not  assume  that  the  Lord  is  going  to  require  of  every  one  of 
us  such  sacrifices.  But  I  !do  maintain  that  the  living  of  the  Gospel 
will  develop  the  spirit  of  sacrifice.  If  we  are  to  gain  salvation  we  must 
first  have  assurance  that  the  course  of  life  we  are  pursuing  is  in  accord- 
ance with  the  will  of  the  Lord.  In  other  words,  we  must  have  a  testi- 
mony of  the  divinity  of  this  work.  If  we  do  not,  we  cannot,  of  course, 
be  willing  to  make  sacrifices.  So  it  is  important  that  every  one  of  us 
should  gain  assurance  of  the  divinity  of  this  work,  and  of  the  fact 
that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  ordained  of  God  for  the  establish- 
ment of  this  work.    To  him  were  consigned  the  keys  of  divine  authority 


ELDER   SYLVESTER    Q.    CANNON  51 

to  direct  the  work.  All  who  have  succeeded  him  have  been  appointed 
to  bear  the  keys  of  authority  in  the  Church,  and  have  been  inspired  of 
God.     That  authority  permeates  the  entire  body  of  the  Church. 

REAL   VALUES    OF    LIFE 

Do  these  sacrifices  really  mean  loss  in  the  real  sense  of  the  word  ? 
In  the  mortal  or  human  sense,  probably  yes.  From  the  standpoint 
of  the  pleasures  of  the  world,  probably  yes.  The  people  of  the  world 
consider  anything  a  deprivation  that  would  restrain  them  from  indulg- 
ing their  appetites  of  whatever  nature.  But  those  who  have  an  appreci- 
ation of  the  values  of  life  will  realize  that  the  things  that  the  people 
of  the  world  refer  to  as  the  pleasures  of  life  and  the  satisfying  of  their 
appetites,  are  the  petty  things.  They  are  the  things  that  will  pass. 
They  are  the  dross  that  will  be  thrown  away.  It  has  been  aptly  said 
that  to  do  without  and  like  it  is  the  'first  lesson  in  the  art  of  being  happy. 
The  principles  that  the  Lord  has  revealed  are  the  things  that  will  count 
as  realities  in  this  ilife  and  in  eternity. 

DEVELOPMENT    THROUGH    SACRIFICE 

These  principles  are  known  to  us.  I  do  hot  need  to  enumerate 
them.  All  that  the  Lord  has  commanded  us  to  do  are  for  our  benefit. 
We  receive  the  blessings.  There  is  no  sacrifice  in  the  final  and  per- 
manent sense  of  the  word.  The  rewards  obtained  are  so  much  greater 
than  the  self-denial  necessary.  We  gain  through  the  observance  of 
divine  commandments,  because  every  principle  and  any  deprivation  that 
may  be  entailed  thereby  is  for  our  greatest  welfare,  growth,  and  de- 
velopment in  life,  here  and  hereafter. 

TITHING  REQUIRES    FAITH 

I  have  been  impressed  with  the  testimonies  at  various  times  in 
these  conferences  of  the  Church  relative  to  the  results  of  the  observance 
of  tithing,  that  have  been  borne  to' us,  and  the  evidences  shown  in  our 
investigations.  I  think  probably  that  tithing  may  he  considered  a 
principle  that  from  a  pecuniary  and  selfish  standpoint  requires  more 
power  and  faith  to  observe  than  some  other  commandments.  Yet  it 
brings  blessings  far  outweighing  the  sacrifice  itself. 

TITHING  IN   OTHER   CHURCHES 

I  am  reminded,  too,  of  a  statement  made  showing  the  way  in  which 
this  principle  is  growing  among  other  people.  I  have  an  article  clipped 
from  a  magazine  of  the  Protestant  Episcopal  Church,  known  as  "The 
Diocesan  Council,"  in  which  the  subject  of  tithing  is  discussed.  It 
refers  to  a  booklet  called  "The  Church  has  Tithers,"  written  by  a  Dr. 
Louis  B.  Franklin.  He  writes  of  the  observance  of  tithing  as  they 
understand  it.  His  comment'  in  regard  to  the  principle  of  tithing  is 
rather  interesting:  "The  practice  of  tithing  is  extremely  simple.  One- 
tenth  of  all  income,  plus  one-tenth  the  rental  value  of  a  house  wholly 
owned  and  used  as  one's  residence,  should  be  set  aside  as  God's  property 
to  be  administered  for  him.     Help  to  dependent  relatives  is  a  family 


52  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

obligation  and  should  not  ibe  taken  out  of  the  tenth.  Exercise  the  same 
care  in  administering  God's  portion  as  you  do  in  running  your  own 
business,  or  budgeting  your  household  expenses.  Whatever  the  reason, 
many  have  recorded  it  their  judgment  that'  it  is  easier  to  live  on  nine- 
tenths  than  on  ten-tenths.  The  readjustment  of  a  family  budget  so  as 
to  provide  for  setting  aside  the  tithes  may  demand  a  reconsideration 
of  the  whole  question  of  standards  of  living.  Many  have  found  in 
such  a  consideration  the  dawning  of  a  new  and  happier  day." 

That  is  the  testimony  of  people  who  do  not  belong  to  this  Church. 
Does  that  indicate  that  the  principle  of  tithing  is  a  natural,  divine 
principle?  Surely  if  'it  is  divine  it  will  produce  result's  for  all  who 
practice  it  in  the  spirit  of  it,  as  far  as  they  have  understanding. 

FAITHFUL    TITHEPAYERS    GENERALLY    EMPLOYED 

From  the  reports  given  by  some  of  the  mission  presidents,  and 
by  the  stake  presidents  and  bishops,  and  from  our  own  investigations,  it 
appears  that  generally  the  people  throughout  the  Church  who  pay 
tithing  are  making  their  way  forward  financially  as  well  as  spiritually. 
Those  who  need  help  are  largely  not'  those  who  have  been  faithful  tithe- 
payers.  On  the  other  hand,  most  of  the  faithful  tithepayers  have  been 
able  to  maintain  themselves  even  under  this  most  extended  period 
of  depression.  Surely  this  is  a  splendid  evidence  of  some  of  the  results 
of  faith  and  sacrifice.  Let  it  he  remembered,  however,  that  faith  in 
the  divinity  of  this  or  any  other  principle  alone  can  bring  the  blessings. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire  to  testify  to  you  that  this  and 
every  other  principle  of  the  Gospel  is  for  our  welfare  and  progress, 
and  that  the  Gospel  itself  is  the  greatest  thing  that  has  come  to  mankind, 
both  for  this  life  and  for  the  life  hereafter.  I  pray  that  I  may  be  able 
to  stand,  with  you,  firm  and  faithful,  be  prompt  to  accept  instructions 
given,  alert  to  follow  the  guidance  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  to  measure 
up  to  the  finest  standards  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  GIDEON  N.  HULTERSTROM 

Former  President  of  the  Swedish  Mission 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  indeed  glad  and  happy  for  this 
opportunity  to  be  in  attendance  at  this  General  Conference  of  the  Church. 
I  humbly  pray  that  while  I  stand  before  you  I  may  have  a  rich  portion 
of  the  Holy  Spirit  of  God,  to  direct  my  report  that  I  am  to  give  of  the 
Swedish  mission. 

I  bring  you  greetings  and  good  tidings  from  your  sons  in  Sweden. 
They  are  performing  a  faithful  labor  in  that  far-off  land.  They  are 
laboring  earnestly  for  the  building  up  of  the  church  and  kingdom  of 
God.  There  seems  never  to  have  been  a  time  when  there  has  been  a 
better  opportunity  to  do  missionary  work  than  at  the  present  time,  and 
I  am  pleased  to  report  that  the  work  of  the  Lord  is  gaining  headway  in 
Sweden. 

We  are  proclaiming  the  Gospel  in  the  usual  way,  but  also  by  illus- 


ELDER   GIDEON   N.   HULTERSTROM  k        53 

trated  lectures  about  Utah  and  the  pioneers,  and  also  lectures  about  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  In  connection  with  our  conferences  held  we  are  giv- 
ing concerts  and  religious  pageants,  and  I  am  happy  to  state  that  all 
these  new  methods  have  had  a  wonderful  effect  for  good  in  behalf  of 
the  Lord's  cause  in  Sweden. 

In  one  of  our  conferences  in  the  city  of  Stockholm  we  had  the  honor 
to  have  with  us  the  U.  S.  Consul  General,  Mr.  John  Ball  Osborne.  We 
took  the  opportunity  to  call  upon  him  to  speak.  In  his  address  he  said 
among  other  things,  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  trustworthy  men  and 
women.  He  praised  the  work  accomplished  by  our  Elders,  and  he  spoke 
highly  of  our  Church  leaders,  especially  of  those  that  he  had  become 
acquainted  with,  namely,  Dr.  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Dr.  James  E.  Talmage 
and  Senator  Reed  Smoot.  Much  good  came  from  the  results  of  this 
conference,  especially  for  the  reason  that  we  had  this  distinguished  gen- 
tleman with  us,  taking  part  on  the  program. 

On  the  14th  of  June,  this  year,  it  will  be  eighty-two  years  since  the 
Gospel  was  first  introduced  in  Scandinavia  by  the  late  Apostle  Erastus 
Snow.  This  was  the  most  outstanding  event  in  the  history  of  the 
Scandinavian  countries,  and  the  proclaiming  of  the  restored  Gospel  in 
those  lands  since  the  year  1850  has  brought  nearly  fifty-five  thousand 
souls  into  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  What  a 
wonderful  harvest !  I  rejoice  when  I  think  of  the  progress  of  this  great 
latter-day  work  in  all  parts  of  the  world. 

I  am  pleased  to  state  that  a  change  has  come  about  in  the  world, 
because  in  the  past  our  message  has  been  somewhat  misunderstood.  I 
am  pleased  to  report  that  the  newspaper  press  in  Sweden  is  more  favor- 
able now  than  it  has  ever  been  before.  Our  meetings  are  advertised  free  of 
charge  in  nineteen  of  the  newspapers  over  there,  and  a  friendly  spirit 
exists  today.  Whenever  prominent  Church  members  visit  us  we  arrange 
for  an  interview,  and  the  good  things  thus  published  in  the  papers  have 
a  wonderful  effect  for  good.  I  can  truthfully  say  that  we  have  been 
blessed  indeed  by  the  Lord  in  our  work  in  Sweden. 

I  take  this  opportunity  to  greet  you  from  President  and  Sister  John 
A.  Widtsoe,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission..  By  the  way,  they 
are  doing  a  most  wonderful  work,  and  under  their  able  direction  we  are 
trying  to  build  up  the  branches  of  the  Church  in  the  Swedish  mission, 
and  to  keep  in  step  with  all  new  things  and  new  methods  introduced  by 
the  Church,  here  at  home  and  in  the  missions. 

I  can  state  that  more  responsibility  has  been  placed  upon  the  local 
brethren,  and  our  auxiliary  organizations  are  working;  they  are  active 
and  they  are  doing  a  most  splendid  work.  The  Primary  work  was  in- 
troduced in  the  Swedish  mission  about  a  year  ago  and  five  such  organ- 
izations are  now  functioning.  I  am  also  happy  to  relate  that  we  have 
organized,  during  the  past  two  years,  three  genealogical  societies  in  that 
mission,  and  they  are  doing  a  considerable  lot  of  good  for  the  members 
of  the  Church,  in  their  research  work,  preparatory  to  sending  their  gen- 
ealogical work  to  the  Salt  Lake  Temple. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  has  its  mission  to*  fulfil, — a  great  mission,  by 


54  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

the  way.  It  contains  the  fulness  of  the  Gospel,  and  the  Elders  have  done 
their  best  to  distribute  this  book.  It  has  been  placed  in  the  libraries  of 
Sweden,  and  in  some  of  the  leading  book  stores,  and  thereby  several 
copies  are  being  distributed.  During  my  visit  in  Finland,  a  couple  of 
years  ago,  I  presented  the  Book  of  Mormon  to  Mr.  Uno  Thurman,  of  the 
public  library  in  Helsingfors.  He  was  very  glad  to  receive  this  sacred 
volume. 

In  conclusion  I  wish  to  testify  to  you  that  Mormonism  is  the  true 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  I  am  grateful  indeed  to  my  Heavenly  Father 
for  the  privilege  I  have  had  to  spend  ten  years  of  my  life  as  a  mission- 
ary abroad  in  the  ministry  of  the  Gospel.  This  wonderful  privilege  has 
come  to  pass  in  fulfilment  of  a  patriarchal  blessing  that  I  received  about 
thirty  years  ago. 

I  rejoice  in  this  work,  and  my  desire  is  to  keep  on  working  in  this 
Church  during  all  the  days  of  my  life.  I  know,  as  surely  as  I  know  that 
I  live,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  true  prophet  of  God,  and  that  President 
Heber  J.  Grant  and  his  associates,  who  stand  at  the  head  of  this  Church 
today,  are  true  servants  of  the  living  God,  holding  the  keys  of  the  priest- 
hood and  having  authority  to  build  up  the  Kingdom  of  God  in  all  the 
world. 

This  is  my  testimony,  and  I  bear  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

Sister  Pearl  Kimball  Davis  sang,  "O  Love  Divine." 

ELDER  FRED  TADJE 

Former  President  of  the  Swiss-German  Mission 

The  poet,  on  seeing  weather-beaten  trees,  and  remarking  their  shape 
and  outline,  wrote  reflectingly : 

"Is  it  as  plainly  in  our  living  shown,  by  slant  and  twist 
Which  way  the  wind  has  blown?" 

The  answer  to  this  query  is  yes ;  we  do,  in  our  living,  reflect  the  way  the 
wind  has  blown.  Every  influence  that  we  have  known  registers  some 
mark  upon  us.  Each  one  leaves  its  impress,  and  one  day  finds  expres- 
sion in  our  conduct  or  attitude. 

As  you  have  heard,  I  come  to  you  from  the  mission  field,  where  it 
has  been  my  privilege  to  associate  with  many  of  your  sons.  I  have  had 
the  opportunity  to  observe  them ;  to  study  their  actions  and  reactions ; 
to  appraise  their  character.  I  have  seen  them  in  discouragement  and  in 
enthusiasm,  in  defeat  and  in  victory,  confused  by  problems,  and  tri- 
umphing over  them.  I  have  seen  their  works.  I  have  recognized  their 
efforts.  I  have  looked  into  their  lives — their  souls  were  bared  to  me.  I 
have  known  their  faith;  and  I  wish  to  say  to  you  mothers  and  fathers 
of  missionaries,  there  are  no  finer  young  men  in  all  the  world  than  those 
you  send  to  us  as  missionaries.  I  congratulate  you  as  parents,  and  I  con- 
gratulate the  Church  for  such  splendid  types  of  young  people.     Their 


ELDER   FRED    TADJE  55 

character  is  an  honor  and  a  credit  to  you,  for  they  reflect  the  influences 
that  you  have  exerted  over  them. 

Just  as  surely  as  weather-beaten  trees  show  the  way  the  wind  has 
blown,  so  do  these  young  men  disclose  the  kind  of  training  they  have 
received.  In  the  lives  of  these  young  men  we  can  see  the  shaping  power 
of  the  Church  and  of  the  home,  and  the  influence  of  their  parents. 

One  of  the  most  potent  factors  in  molding  an  individual's  life  is  the 
power  of  example,  particularly  the  example  of  the  parents.  The  child 
naturally  looks  to  his  father  as  a.  perfect  model.  His  son  will  copy  his 
walk,  his  speech,  his  manners,  his  every  action.  Father  is  his  model,  his 
rock  on  which  he  stands.  Unconsciously,  perhaps,  but  nevertheless  sure- 
ly, the  child  patterns  his  life  after  his  father.  If  the  father  is  a  man  of 
faith  and  virtue,  if  he  cultivates  the  good  qualities,  then  every  fine  trait 
is  accented  in  the  child.  But  if  he  is  careless  and  negligent,  if  his  habits 
are  bad,  his  influence,  just  as  strong,  is  for  the  worse. 

Fathers  and  mothers,  what  a  tremendous  responsibility  is  ours  !  How 
vigilant  we  must  ever  be  to  guide  our  children  right.  How  we  must 
foster  the  spirit  of  faith  and  love  in  our  homes.  There  it  is  that  we  can 
inculcate  a  love  of  the  Gospel,  an  unshakable  faith,  in  the  breasts  of  our 
children.  Let  every  influence  be  an  uplifting  one.  Cultivate  religious 
expression. 

I  believe  one  reason  why  the  Gospel  means  so  much  to  me  is,  be- 
cause it  meant  so  much  to  my  parents.  We  were  brought  close  to  the 
Gospel  as  children  in  the  home.  Not  a  day  passed  that  some  phase  of 
the  Gospel  was  not  discussed.  Family  prayers  were  observed  regularly, 
and  then  early  in  the  evening,  before  any  one  was  over-tired.  The  motto 
in  the  home  was:  "Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  his  righteous- 
ness ;  and  all  these  things  shall  be  added  unto  you."  The  spirit  of  the 
home,  the  discussion  of  the  Gospel  principles,  the  family  prayers,  and 
above  all,  the  example  of  the  parents,  who  endeavored  to  live  real  Gos- 
pel lives,  imbued  a  desire  into  the  hearts  of  the  children  to  serve  the 
Master  in  whatever  capacity  they  were  capable. 

A  father  confided  to  me,  at  one  time,  that  when  his  children  passed 
through  the  critical  period  of  their  lives  he  had  fasted  and  prayed  a  day 
every  week  for  years,  for  divine  help  to  rear  his  children  properly  in  the 
Church.  He  wanted  them  to  grow  up  in  faith  and  in  love  of  the  truth. 
He  said  :  "I  cannot  bear  to  see  my  children  go  astray,  or  disinterested 
in  the  Gospel.  Should  that  happen  it  would  shorten  my  life,  and  with 
the  help  of  the  Lord  I  will  do  all  that  lies  in  my  power  to  instil  into 
their  hearts  a  desire  to  serve  him."  What  a  devotion  to  a  righteous 
cause !  Were  his  efforts  in  vain  ?  Indeed  not,  for  thus  far  his  children 
are  firmly  grounded  in  the  faith,  and  no  matter  what  call  is  made  upon 
them  by  the  Church,  they  respond  joyfully  and  whole-heartedly. 

I  have  three  boys  whom  I  love  dearly.  If  I  can  inspire  them  with 
the  same  high  faith  that  my  parents  bequeathed  to  me,  if  I  can  instil 
into  their  hearts  a  fervent  love  of  God  and  his  work,  if  I  can  be  a  worthy 
example  in  all  things,  then  I  shall  be  content.  If  I  can  create  in  them 
an  earnest  desire  to  know  God's  will  and  to  do  it,  to  serve  him  and  to  love 


56  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

his  Gospel,  then  I  shall  be  indeed  gratified.  Some  day,  I  hope,  they  may- 
take  their  place  as  missionaries,  thoroughly  qualified  to  carry  on  in  the 
all-important  work.  And  I  hope  that  some  future  mission  president, 
looking  upon  the  lives  of  my  boys,  and  of  yours,  may  read  in  them  the 
reflection  of  good  influences  and  proper  example.  May  he  never  see 
child-like  faith  dulled  by  parental  indifference,  or  potential  virtue  marred 
by  parental  neglect. 

Let  our  every  influence  be  for  good.  Let  our  example  be  a  shining 
light  to  guide  our  children  in  the  paths,  of  truth  and  righteousness.  Let 
us  bring  the  Gospel  close  to  our  children,  that  they  may  learn  to  know 
and  love  it,  and  that  they  may  respond  to  its  uplifting  influence. 

My  experience  has  proven  that,  generally  speaking,  the  most  faith- 
ful and  successful  missionaries  come  from  families  here  at  home  where 
the  Gospel  receives  first  consideration.  I  have  observed,  too,  that  the 
families  where  the  Gospel  is  the  predominant  thought  are  ever  responsive 
to  the  call  of  the  Authorities  of  the  Church,  no  matter  what  sacrifice  it 
might  entail. 

Let  us  all  place  ourselves  in  tune  with  this  great  cause  by  making 
the  Gospel  a  substantial  part  of  our  home  life  and  training.  I  am  ex- 
ceedingly grateful  for  my  membership  in  this  Church.  I  prize  more 
highly  than  I  can  express  the  privileges  I  enjoy  as  a  bearer  of  the 
Melchizedek  priesthood.  My  earnest  desire  is  to  be  able  to  show  my 
appreciation  for  my  many  blessings  by  rendering  at  all  times,  and  under 
every  circumstance,  acceptable  service  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord.  This 
Gospel  has  brought  me  joy  and  gratification  beyond  description.  I  have 
tasted  of  the  fruits  of  the  Gospel,  and  I  want  to  testify  to  you  that  I 
have  found  them  most  delicious. 

May  the  Lord  continue  to  bless  us  all,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

At  the  request  of  President  Grant  the  congregation  arose  and  sang 
two  verses  of  the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

BENEFITS  OF  CONFERENCE 

It  has  been  my  great  pleasure  now  for  nearly  forty  years  to  be  in 
attendance  at  the  General  Conferences  of  the  Church.  I  count  it  a  lib- 
eral education  in  the  science  of  life  to  have  had  this  distinguished  priv- 
ilege, not  alone  from  the  things  that  were  said,  but  the  spirit  that  pre- 
vailed during  those  many  sessions  has  brought  to  me  understanding,  light 
and  knowledge  that  I  have  prized  most  highly.  I  have  observed  that 
there  has  always  been  something  suited  for  the  occasion,  for  the  times 
demanded  certain  instructions ;  and  that  those  instructions  were  forth- 
coming at  the  conference,  for  the  profit,  the  guidance  and  the  blessing 
of  the  people.  I  am  sure  this  Conference  is  proving  to  be  full  of  fruit- 
ful benefit  to  the  membership  of  the  Church. 


ELDER    MELVIN   J.    BALLARD  57 

KINGDOM  OF  SATAN  TO  BE  SHAKEN 

In  the  beginning  of  the  foundation  of  this  work  the  Lord  said — I 
am  reading  from  the  hundred  and  thirty-second  section  of  the  book  of 
Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

"Everything  that  is  in  the  world,  whether  it  be  ordained  of  men,  by  thrones, 
or  principalities,  or  powers,  or  things  of  name,  whatsoever  they  may  be,  that  are 
not  by  me,  or  by  my  word,  saith  the  Lord,  shall  be  thrown  down.  *  *  * 

"For  whatsoever  things  remain  are  by  me;  and  whatsoever  things  are  not 
by  me  shall  be  shaken  and  destroyed." 

I  read  a  statement  similar  to  that  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  Second 
Nephi,  reading  from  the  twenty-eighth  chapter.  Speaking  of  these  days, 
which  Nephi  undoubtedly  saw,  full  of  all  their  peril  and  their  trouble, 
he  said: 

"For  the  kingdom  of  the  devil  must  shake,  and  they  which  belong  to  it  must 
needs  be  stirred  up  unto  repentance,  or  the  devil  will  grasp  them  with  his  ever- 
lasting chains,  and  they  be  stirred  up  to  anger,  and  perish ; 

"For  behold,  at  that  day  shall  he  rage  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men, 
and  stir  them  up  to  anger  against  that  which  is  good." 

He  expressed  the  same  thought  in  the  last  chapter  of  First  Nephi, 
and  I  read  as  follows ;  describing  these  very  events  such  as  we  are  now 
passing  through,  he  observed : 

"The  righteous  need  not  fear,  for  they  are  those  who  shall  not  be  confounded. 
But  it  is  the  kingdom  of  the  devil,  which  shall  be  built  up  among  the  children  of 
men,  which  kingdom  is  established  among  them  which  are  in  the  flesh — 

"For  the  time  speedily  shall  come,  that  all  churches  which  are  built  up  to  get 
gain,  and  all  those  who  are  built  up  to  get  power  over  the  flesh,  and  those  who 
are  built  up  to  become  popular  in  the  eyes  of  the  world,  and  those  who  seek  the 
lusts  of  the  flesh  and  the  things  of  the  world,  and  to  do  all  manner  of  iniquity ; 
yea,  in  fine,  all  those  who  belong  to  the  kingdom  of  the  devil,  are  they  who  need 
fear,  and  tremble,  and  quake ;  they  are  those  who  must  be  brought  low  in  the  dust ; 
they  are  those  who  must  be  consumed  as  stubble ;  and  this  is  according  to  the 
words  of  the  prophet." 

These  marvelous  declarations  that  the  day  would  come,  in  the  his- 
tory of  the  world,  when  everything  that  was  set  up  by  man,  that  was  not 
in  harmony  with  God's  will  and  purpose,  would  be  shaken  and  destroyed, 
indicates  a  new  epoch  in  the  history  of  this  world. 

As  we  look  back  over  the  hundred  years  that  have  passed  since  these 
prophecies  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  were 
made  known  to  us,  we  see  evidences  of  the  Lord  fulfilling  these  very  pre- 
dictions ;  everything  to  be  tested,  to  be  tried  and  to  be  shaken,  and  only 
that  which  is  the  truth  and  that  which  was  set  up  by  the  Lord  shall 
survive. 

A  CENTURY  OF  PROGRESS 

What  marvelous  things  the  Lord  has  been  doing  in  the  earth,  out- 
side of  this  Church !  Next  year,  in  the  city  of  Chicago,  there  will  be  a 
centennial  exposition  celebrating  the  hundredth  anniversary  of  the 
founding  of  that  great  city,  for  it  was  established  three  years  after  this 
Church  was  organized.     It  has  been  named  "A  Century  of  Progress." 


58  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

using  the  exact  title  of  a  very  fine  manual  which  the  Young  Men's 
and  Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  Association  adopted  in  1930. 
The  exposition  will  set  forth  what  has  happened  in  human  progress 
during  the  past  hundred  years. 

I  was  impressed  recently  by  reading  a  book  entitled  "A  Century's 
Changes  in  Religion,"  and  the  observation  made  that  the  last  fifty  years 
have  shown  greater  changes  in  religious  thought  and  practice  than  all 
the  ages  of  time.  But  what  changes  have  been  wrought !  What  changes 
have  occurred  in  the  science  and  the  arts !  How  human  thinking  has 
been  modified ! 

When  Joseph  Smith  came  forth  declaring  the  restoration  of  this 
Gospel,  with  its  clear-cut  notions  concerning  the  salvation  of  men,  con- 
cerning the  doctrine  of  deity,  they  were  so  diametrically  opposed  to  every 
existing  religious  denomination  that  there  is  no  wonder  he  had  the  hatred 
and  enmity  of  religious  bodies.  But  how  the  truth  he  taught  has  sur- 
vived !  Belief  in  miracles  was  necessary  to  accept  Joseph  Smith's  state- 
ment, and  that  was  not  a  miracle-believing  age.  But  how  the  Lord  has 
changed  human  thinking  in  these  hundred  years ! 

Let  me  read  two  items  that  I  secured  recently.  One  of  them  is  a 
statement  which  occurred  in  the  very  year  that  Joseph  Smith  received 
his  first  vision,  the  year  1820. 

J.  R.  Howard,  former  president  of  the  American  Farm  Bureau 
Federation,  and  now  head  of  the  National  Transportation  Institute, 
stated  in  a  recent  address  that  back  in  1820  the  head  of  a  school  board 
at  Lancaster,  Ohio,  wrote  the  following  letter  to  one  who  had  applied 
for  the  use  of  a  school  house  for  a  debate  on  the  practicability  of  the 
railroad  and  telegraph.    Here  is  his  letter : 

"You  are  welcome  to  use  the  school  house  to  debate  all  proper  questions  in, 
but  such  things  as  railroads  and  telegraphs  are  impossibilities  and  rank  infidelity. 
There  is  nothing  in  the  Word  of  God  about  them.  Tf  God  had  designed  that  His 
intelligent  creatures  should  travel  at  a  frightful  speed  of  fifteen  miles  an  hour,  by 
steam.  He  would  have  clearly  foretold  through  His  holy  prophets.  It  is  a  device 
of  Satan  to  lead  immortal  souls  down  to  hell." 

Even  as  late  as  1870,  here  is  an  item  that  appeared  in  a  Boston 
newspaper : 

"A  man  about  forty-six  years  of  age,  giving  the  name  of  Joshua  Copper- 
smith, has  been  arrested  in  New  York  for  attempting  to  extort  funds  from  igno- 
rant and  superstitious  people  by  exhibiting  a  device  which  he  says  will  convey 
the  human  voice  any  distance  over  metallic  wires,  so  that  it  will  be  heard  by  the 
listener  at  the  other  end. 

"He  calls  the  instrument  a  'telephone,'  which  is  obviously  intended  to  imi- 
tate the  word  'telegraph'  and  win  the  confidence  of  those  who  know  of  the  success 
of  the  latter  instrument  without  understanding  the  principles  on  which  it  is  based. 

"Well-informed  people  know  that  it  is  impossible  to  transmit  the  human 
voice  over  wires,  as  may  be  done  with  dots  and  dashes  and  signals  of  the  Morse 
Code,  and  that,  were  it  possible  to  do  so,  the  thing  would  be  of  no  practical  value. 

"The  authorities  who  apprehended  the  criminal  are  to  be  congratulated,  and 
it  is  to  be  hoped  that  his  punishment  will  be  prompt  and  fitting,  that  it  may  serve 
as  an  example  to  other  conscienceless  schemers  who  enrich  themselves  at  the  ex- 
pense of  their  fellow  creatures." 

Have  we  made  any  progress  in  a  hundred  years?    When  my  voice 


ELDER    MELVIN   J.    BALLARD  59 

is  now  traveling  over  radio — not  over  wires — to  those  of  you  who  are 
listening,  at  the  speed  of  light,  one  hundred  and  eighty-six  thousand 
miles  a  second,  almost  eight  times  around  this  globe  in  one  second — have 
we  made  any  progress  ? 

I  listened  to  an  international  broadcast  honoring  America's  greatest 
inventor,  who  passed  away  last  year,  Thomas  A.  Edison,  celebrating  the 
fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  invention  of  the  electric  light ;  his  voice  com- 
ing instantly,  and  the  voice  of  Dr.  Einstein  from  Berlin,  on  the  other 
side  of  the  world,  in  the  smallest  fraction  of  a  second.  Then  1  fell  to 
thinking  of  what  had  happened  in  the  fifty  years  that  I  could  remember, 
and  I  concluded  that  more  human  progress  had  been  made  in  these  fifty 
years  than  in  all  the  ages  of  time;  and  I  asked  myself :  Why  have  I  been 
permitted  to  live  to  see  more  than  all  my  fathers,  back  to  the  day 
of  Adam,  had  seen,  all  combined  together? 

THE  HAND  OF  GOD  MANIFEST 

Why  this  marvelous  change,  and  how  it  has  changed  human  think- 
ing !  Now  we  live  in  the  age  of  miracles !  There  are  a  thousand  of 
them  that  we  see  with  our  eyes.  They  are  demonstrated,  and  yet  we, 
many  of  us,  cannot  comprehend  them.  They  are  miraculous,  and  yet  they 
are  realities. 

How  all  this  mighty  flood  of  truth  has  been  an  ally  to  this  Church, 
perhaps  its  greatest  ally !  But  I  count  it  all  as  having  come  from  God.  He 
was  fighting  the  battles  of  truth.  When  it  was  his  good  pleasure,  as 
Joel  saw,  the  day  would  come  when  the  Spirit  of  God  would  be  poured 
out  upon  all  flesh,  and  young  men  would  dream  dreams,  and  old  men 
would  see  visions,  the  vision  of  the  things  of  God.  These  were  all  his 
secrets.  It  was  not  that  the  age  that  preceded  ours  was  lacking  in  in- 
telligence, that  they  did  not  discover  these  marvels  that  have  brought  us 
such  great  human  transformations.  It  was  that  God  had  not  willed  it. 
When  the  hour  came  that  he  was  willing  that  a  new  order  of  things 
should  be  established  in  the  earth,  he  unlocked  the  secrets  he  had  held, 
and  let  man  come  to  know  them. 

Hence  these  have  been  our  allies,  for  we  find  ourselves  in  no  con- 
tradiction to  any  of  these  scientific  truths  that  have  come.  We  recognize 
the  vast  difference  between  the  theories  of  scientists  and  the  facts  of 
science.  I  have  failed  to  find  this  Church,  or  its  teachings,  in  conflict 
with  a  single  fact  of  science. 

GROWTH   OF  CHURCH 

It  used  to  be  said  that  Mormonism  flourished  where  ignorance  was 
most  profound,  but  in  the  age  of  the  world's  greatest  enlightenment 
there  is  no  church  on  earth  whose  percentage  of  growth  equals  this 
Church.  While  others  are  losing  ground,  how  we  rejoiced  to  hear  yes- 
terday the  report  of  the  continual  progress  and  growth  of  this  Church, 
and  that  in  the  age  of  the  world's  greatest  enlightenment ! 

There  was  published  in  1929  a  volume  entitled  "The  Story  of  Re- 
ligion," and  I  read  this  regarding  Joseph  Smith  and  Mormonism  ; 


60  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

"The  incredible  thing  about  Mormonism  is  that  such  a  respectable  religion 
could  have  been  derived  from  such  a  disreputable  person.  Mormonism  is  barely  a 
century  old,  and  yet  it  is  one  of  the  most  successful  religions  on  the  American 
continent.  If  we  are  to  accept  the  dictum  of  Jesus,  'By  their  fruits  ye  shall  know 
them,'  we  must  rate  Mormons  high.  There  is  no  disputing  the  fact,  however,  that 
Joseph  Smith,  the  undoubted  founder  of  Mormonism,  was  not  only  a  psychopathic 
case,  but  also  a  shrewd  schemer  whose  ethical  sense  was  poorly  developed. 

"America  has  no  better  citizens  than  the  Mormons.  At  first  sight  it  is  diffi- 
cult to  account  for  the  evolution  of  present-day  Mormonism  from  the  teaching  of 
such  an  erratic  person  as  Joseph  Smith. 

"There  are  several  factors  of  importance,  however,  in  the  situation.  In  the 
first  place,  in  spite  of  his  visions  and  vagaries,  Joseph  Smith  was  undoubtedly 
a  commanding  and  attractive  personality.  That  fact  has  been  testified  to  by 
friend  and  enemy.  In  the  second  place,  there  were  elements  of  power  and  worth 
in  Smith's  message." 

We  are  making  some  progress,  that  we  are  counted  to  be  among  the 
most  enlightened,  and  no  religion  more  acceptable.  Still  they  cannot 
understand  how  it  could  have  come  from  such  a  disreputable  person. 
How  long  shall  we  live  until  the  whole  truth  shall  be  known,  until  out 
of  the  bigotry  of  that  age  that  had  conceptions  such  as  I  have  just  read 
to  you,  Joseph  Smith  shall  yet  arise  gloriously,  when  the  truth  he  taught 
shall  be  more  fully  understood  by  men  ? 

We  know  that  they  had  not  understood  him.  They  have  not  under- 
stood us.  But  we  shall  yet  win  the  world  to  pay  honor  and  respect  to 
that  prophet  of  God,  and  know  that  those  who  traduced  his  character 
did  not  tell  the  truth.  So  I  rejoice  in  that  which  is  happening.  I  rejoice 
in  what  God  is  doing  today,  for  he  is  moving  among  the  nations  of  the 
earth. 

HOPEFUL    OF    FUTURE 

Yes,  I  see  him  even  in  this  depression,  brethren.  I  know  that 
greater  human  progress  will  be  made  in  the  future  than  in  the  past.  I 
am  looking  for  greater  progress  in  the  alleviation  of  the  economic  dis- 
tresses of  the  world  in  the  next  ten  years  than  the  last  hundred  years 
have  seen.  The  men  of  this  age  are  awakening  to  the  need  of  it.  God 
is  preparing  for  the  coming  of  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ.  He  would  not 
come  to  a  world  that  was  in  the  condition  this  world  was  in  a  hundred 
years  ago.  Neither  is  he  ready  to  come  just  yet.  There  are  many  things 
that  must  yet  be  clone  in  the  battle  for  truth  and  right.  There  shall  yet 
be  wars,  certainly  :  but  out  of  each  conflict,  no  matter  how  deadly,  will 
come  victory  for  truth  and  for  human  emancipation,  for  it  is  in  God's 
program. 

You  Latter-day  Saints  need  not  be  afraid,  if  only  you  will  continue 
to  adhere  to  these  principles  that  have  brought  us  through  in  the  past  so 
successfully,  and  shall  deliver  us  from  the  trials  of  the  future.  Do  not 
become  alarmed  nor  disturbed.  It  is  said  of  human  beings,  when  they 
are  confronted  with  disaster,  the  great  majority  lose  their  heads  and  go 
temporarily  insane.  If  a  fire  breaks  out  in  a  theatre,  the  majority  of 
people  will  trample  each  other  to  death.  How  few  there  are  that  in  the 
majesty  of  their  souls  arise  to  the  occasion,  undefeated,  and  walk  out 
calmly ! 


ELDER    MELV1N   J.   BALLARD  61 

ADVICE  TO  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

In  this  time  of  panic  and  distress  there  are  many  who  lose  their 
heads  and  rush  on  banks,  to  wreck  them.  That  ought  not  to  be  a  char- 
acteristic of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  They  ought,  in  majesty  and  in  peace 
and  in  self  control,  to  be  sane  and  not  insane.  There  are  those  who  lose 
their  faith,  some  allow  their  spirit  to  be  broken,  and  some  even  commit 
suicide.  It  should  not  be  so  with  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Our  position 
should  be  to  study  our  problem  and  discover  what  led  us  into  our  present 
difficulties.  Then  go  to  work,  and  see  to  it  that  we  solve  our  problem 
and  let  not  this  lesson  be  repeated  unto  us. 

Let  us  not  become  ramblers.  If  we  have  failed  in  one  place  we 
need  not  go  to  the  ends  of  the  earth  to  try  again.  Right  in  the  same 
community  where  you  are  you  will  discover  another  chance.  You  need 
not  leave  your  farming  occupations  either.  If  you  will  be  patient,  and 
stay  by  the  enterprises  that  you  have  undertaken,  and  practice  self-denial, 
God  will  deliver  you.  The  greatest  losses  are  not  financial.  They  are 
spiritual.  Our  financial  losses  will  all  be  recovered  if  we  will  only  be 
patient  and  see  the  hand  of  God  working  for  the  furtherance  of  his  holy 
purposes.  We  have  reached  the  day,  thank  the  Lord,  when  his  truth  is 
triumphant,  when  it  is  going  to  succeed,  the  greatest  day  truth  has  ever 
known. 

TESTIMONY  OF  THE  TRUTH 

My  soul  rejoices  to  be  identified  with  the  Church  that  has  the  truth. 
I  am  more  interested  in  seeing  the  truth  succeed  than  any  organization 
to  which  I  belong,  but  thank  God,  the  organization  to  which  I 
belong  has  the  truth,  and  everything  that  has  come  forth  in  this  age  is 
demonstrating  it.    It  will  stand  every  test,  and  it  will  stand  forever. 

God  help  us  to  be  loyal  to  it,  support  it ;  there  never  has  been  an 
opportunity,  in  the  history  of  this  world,  for  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
to  really  demonstrate  its  power,  its  virility  and  its  strength.  Now  its 
day  has  come.  Live  our  religion,  arid  let  our  light  shine,  and  we  shall 
see  God's  work  going  forward  to  greater  and  holier  accomplishments 
than  in  the  past. 

This  is  my  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  I  believe 
with  all  my  soul  that  God  has  not  deserted  us,  but  he  is  moving  for- 
ward to  the  accomplishment  of  his  purposes.  May  they  speedily  be 
accomplished.  May  we  keep  the  faith  and  be  found  with  God's  work  in 
the  day  of  its  victory,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

As  I  stand  before  you  this  morning  I  find  my  mind  still  occupied 
by  an  ever  recurring  thought  suggested  by  a  conversation  I  had  recently 
with  some  students,  more  particularly  with  one  student,  who  within  a 
day  or  so,  came  to  inquire  for  guidance  and  to  seek  possible  help. 

This  particular  young  man  was  very  much  perturbed  in  his  feelings. 
He  had  heard  in  one  of  his  classes  several  imputations  that  seemed  to 


62  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

conflict  with  his  ideas  of  religion.  One  of  the  latest,  for  an  illustration, 
was  this :  His  teacher  had  said  that  the  principle  of  "Fasting  is  a  relic 
of  asceticism."  I  immediately  asked  him  if  he  had  ever  thought  that 
asceticism  as  related  to  fasting  might  be  the  prostitution  of  a  worthy 
principle.    He  said  he  had  never  considered  that  phase  of  the  question. 

ASSOCIATION  WITH   LEADERS  AN   INSPIRATION 

Before  I  comment  further  upon  this  conversation  I  desire  to  ex- 
press a  few  thoughts  in  relation  to  the  adequacy  of  this  Church  in  sup- 
plying the  needs  of  every  human  heart.  An  appreciation  of  the  whole 
will  make  more  impressive  the  importance  of  any  particular  part.  I 
am  happy  that  this  one  hundred  and  second  annual  conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  finds  me  in  absolute  har- 
mony with  the  teachings  and  ideals  of  the  Church.  My  confidence  in 
the  First  Presidency  as  noble  men  and  inspired  leaders  is  secure.  My 
association  with  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  with  members  of  the  Gen- 
eral Sunday  School  Union  board,  with  members  of  other  general  boards, 
with  stake  and  mission  presidencies,  and  with  the  priesthood  generally 
throughout  the  Church  is  a  constant  source  of  inspiration  and  delight. 

CHRIST   THE   IDEAL 

The  teachings  and  life  of  the  Master  never  before  seemed  to  me 
more  beautiful,  more  necessary  and  more  applicable  to  human  happiness. 
Never  have  I  believed  more  firmly  in  the  perfection  of  humanity  as  the 
final  result  of  man's  placement  here  on  earth.  With  my  whole  soul  I 
accept  Jesus  Christ  as  the  personification  of  human  perfection — as  God 
made  manifest  in  the  flesh,  as  the  Savior  and  Redeemer  of  mankind. 

"He  stands  alone,"  as  one  has  said,  "in  unapproachable  grandeur. 
Nineteen  centuries  roll  away,  and  his  character  so  lives  that  he  inspires 
millions  of  men  with  impassioned  love. 

"Other  men  may  seem  to  be  children  of  their  surroundings.  He 
became  what  he  was  despite  his  surroundings,  and  he  is  the  only  one 
who  can  say,  in  truth :  'Do  as  I  have  done.'  "  His  eyes  looked  beyond 
the  present,  peered  into  eternity,  and  comprehended  the  infinite.  He 
is  the  image  of  God. 

Christ's  gospel  a  perfect  plan 

Accepting  him  as  my  Redeemer,  Savior,  Lord,  it  is  but  logical  that 
I  accept  his  Gospel  as  the  plan  of  salvation,  as  the  one  perfect  way  to 
happiness  and  peace.  There  is  not  a  principle  which  was  taught  by 
him  but  seems  to  me  to  be  applicable  to  the  growth,  development  and 
happiness  of  mankind.  Every  one  of  his  teachings  seems  to  touch  the 
true  philosophy  of  living.  I  accept  them  whole-heartedly.  I  love  to 
study  them.    I  like  to  teach  them. 

Christ's  church  a  comprehensive  plan 

So  it  is  with  the  Church  which  Christ  has  established.  Since  it  is 
founded  by  the  Perfect  One,  it  follows  that  when  properly  interpreted 


ELDER    DAVID    O.    McKAY  l       63 

it  too  approaches  perfection.  Every  phase  of  it  therefore  seems  to  me 
to  be  applicable  in  some  way  to  the  welfare  of  the  human  family.  When 
I  consider  the  quorums  of  priesthood,  I  see  in  them  an  opportunity  for 
developing  that  fraternity  and  brotherly  love  which  is  essential  to  the 
happiness  of  mankind.  In  these  quorums  and  in  the  auxiliaries  I  see 
opportunities  for  intellectual  development,  for  social  efficiency.  In  the 
judicial  phase  of  the  Church  I  see  an  ample  means  of  settling  difficul- 
ties, of  establishing  harmony  in  society,  of  administering  justice  and  of 
perpetuating  peace  among  individuals  and  groups.  In  the  ecclesiastical 
organization  I  see  an  opportunity  for  social  welfare  such  as  cannot  be 
found  in  any  other  organization  in  the  world.  Thus  do  Christ  and  his 
Church  become  my  ideal,  my  inspiration  in  life.  I  think  it  is  the  highest 
ideal  for  which  man  can  strive. 

FAITH   AN  ANCHOR  TO  THE  SOUL 

Such  faith  in  the  Great  Teacher  and  in  his  Church  I  consider  a  safe 
anchor  for  young  people  to  possess,  especially  during  the  formative 
period  of  their  lives,  and  I  freely  take  issue  with  any  man  who  delib- 
erately destroys  such  a  faith  without  offering  something  better  in  its 
place ;  and  I  know  of  nothing  else  in  the  world  that  can  even  approach 
Christ's  Church  as  an  anchor  for  the  soul. 

MORE  FAITH   NEEDED 

One  great  need  in  the  world  today  is  more  faith,  less  skepticism, 
more  confidence,  less  doubting.  As  Bruce  Barton  expresses  it:  "Faith 
in  business,  faith  in  country,  faith  in  one's  self,  faith  in  other  people, — 
this  is  the  power  which  moves  the  world.  And  why  is  it  unreasonable 
to  believe  that  this  power,  which  is  so  much  stronger  than  any  other,  is 
merely  a  fragment  of  the  great  power  that  operates  the  universe?" 

FAITH  SHOULD  BE  INCREASED  NOT  UNDERMINED 

Now,  at  the  opening  of  my  remarks  I  referred  to  my  conversation 
with  a'student  because  it  illustrates  two  things :  First :  Insinuations  made 
to  the  young  who  are  yet  undecided  as  to  what  are  the  most  important 
things  in  life  may  shake  the  faith  of  youth,  and  "Youth  without  faith 
is  a  day  without  sun." 

Secondly,  I  cite  that  instance  to  bring  home  to  us  today  the  neces- 
sity of  parents  and  officers  in  the  Church  teaching  more  earnestly  and 
diligently  the  principles  of  life  and  salvation  to  the  youth  of  Zion  and 
to  the  world  in  order  to  keep  the  latter  properly  balanced  through  the 
formative  period  of  their  lives. 

"Our  civilization  is  imperiled  today,"  writes  an  American  statisti- 
cian, "simply  because  it  is  ill  balanced.  Our  spiritual  culture  lags  so  far 
behind  our  material  culture,  in  its  development,  that  we  have  no  ade- 
quate control  over  the  latter.  Our  science,  our  education  and  our  gov- 
ernment can  do  much  to  help  correct  this  lack  in  our  spiritual  develop- 
ment, but  in  the  main  this  must  be  done,  if  done  at  all,  by  religion  and 
by  the  Church,  for  religion  is  the  creator  and  the  conservator  of  our 
social  ideals,  and  the  church  is  their  chief  propagator." 


64  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

The  confidence  and  faith  I  have  expressed  this  morning  in  the  First 
Presidency,  the  Twelve,  and  others  of  my  associates,  as  well  as  in  the 
Gospel  and  especially  in  the  Savior,  applies  also  to  the  tenets  and  teach- 
ings of  the  Church.  Every  one  when  properly  interpreted  and  applied 
has  in  it  a  saving  power  and  blessing  for  all  who  will  accept  it. 

PRINCIPLES  TO  BE  APPROACHED  FROM  PROPER  VIEW  POINT 

There  is  not  time  this  morning  even  to  mention  further  these  vari- 
ous phases  of  the  Church,  each  one  of  which  will  apply  to  the  needs, 
to  the  education,  to  the  peace  of  individuals.  I  should  like  to  take,  as 
an  example,  however,  the  principle  already  named.  Considering  this 
will  illustrate  also  how  even  a  teacher  may  himself  become  warped  in 
his  attitude  toward  what  he  might  consider  merely  a  dogma.  You  know 
there  are  occasionally  men  in  the  profession  of  teaching — as  that  is  my 
profession  I  can  speak  plainly — who  pride  themselves  on  being  icono- 
clasts ;  but  unfortunately,  when  such  teachers  break  their  so-called 
images  they  supply  nothing  to  replace  them.  They  destroy  ideals  but 
offer  no  others,  thus  leaving  the  young  boy  in  doubt  and  uncertainty. 
Such  a  one  seems  to  me  to  be  heaving  anchor  and  starting  out  on  the 
ocean  of  life  before  his  course  is  even  charted.  It  is  well  not  only  for 
church  people  but  for  educators  everywhere  when  teaching  the  young 
to  have  in  mind  the  three  "C's"  as  well  as  the  three  "R's"  mentioned  so 
proverbially.  By  those  three  "C's"  I  mean  character,  conduct,  citizen- 
ship. The  teaching  of  religion  in  public  schools  is  prohibited,  but  the 
teaching  of  character  and  citizenship  is  required. 

PRINCIPLE   OF    FASTING  APPLIED  TO    HEALTH 

Every  principle  and  ordinance  of  the  Gospel  may  be  attacked  from 
one  angle  or  another  as  a  mere  "ism,"  but  it  may  also  be  considered  as 
possessing  elements  of  soul  growth,  beauty  and  sublimity. 

Consider  for  a  moment  this  principle  of  fasting.  It  is  as  old  as  the 
human  race  and  undoubtedly  when  first  practiced  was  related  to  health. 
It  is  generally  conceded  that  most  people  usually  consume  more  food 
than  the  body  requires.  Overeating  clogs  the  system  with  deleterious 
waste  products.  <  (When  such  a  condition  exists  a  short  fast  is 
useful  as  a  means  of  restoring  the  body  to  its  normal  active  state.  One 
authority  referring  to  this  says,  "The  great  thing  about  the  fast  is  that 
it  sets  you  a  new  standard  of  health."  And  an  eminent  Scotch  physician 
adds,  "Fasting  for  a  longer  or  a  shorter  period  is  often  a  beneficial  prac- 
tice especially  in  the  case  of  those  who  have  been  living  too  freely." 

TO   SELF-CONTROL 

But  besides  this  there  is  the  spiritual  strength  derived  from  the 
subjecting  of  the  physical  appetite  to  the  will  of  the  individual.  "He 
who  reigns  within  himself  and  rules  passions,  desires  and  fears  is  more 
than  king."  As  in  eternal  life,  so  in  self-mastery,  there  is  no  one  great 
thing  which  a  man  may  do  to  obtain  it ;  but  there  are  many  little  things 
by  observing  which  self-control  may  be  achieved.     And  a  subjecting  of 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY  65 

the  appetite  to  the  will  and  a  refusal  to  satisfy  desire  are  two  of  these 
little  things.  Writing  on  this  very  question,  the  subjection  of  appetites 
and  desires  to  the  will,  the  psychologist  William  James  admonishes  "To 
do  each  day  something  which  you  do  not  like  to  do."  If  there  were  no 
other  virtue  in  fasting  but  gaining  strength  of  character,  that  alone 
would  be  sufficient  justification  for  its  universal  acceptance. 

AS  AN   ECONOMIC   BENEFIT 

But  associated  with  this  practice  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  is  the  giving  of  a  fast  offering,  the  underlying  pur- 
pose and  far-reaching  benefits  of  which  make  the  monthly  observance 
of  fast  day  one  of  the  most  significant  features  of  this  latter-day  work. 
Besides  the  benefits  already  mentioned  there  are :  First,  all  the  spiritual 
uplift  that  comes  from  a  Christ-like  desire  to  serve  one's  fellowmen; 
and  Second,  an  economic  means  which  when  carried  out  by  a  perfect 
and  active  organization  will  supply  the  needs  of  every  worthy  poor  per- 
son within  the  confines  of  the  organized  branches  of  the  Church. 

The  regularly  constituted  fast  consists  of  abstinence  from  eating 
two  meals  once  each  month.  The  value  of  these  two  meals  is  given  as 
a  voluntary  donation  for  the  relief  of  those  who  are  hungry  or  other- 
wise in  distress.  Sincere  observance  of  this  rule  means  spiritually  that 
the  divine  principle  of  service  is  expressed  and  the  resultant  promise  of 
the  Master  is  merited,  "Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto  the  least  of 
these,  my  brethren,  ye  have  done  it  unto  me." 

Let  us  apply  this  principle  to  some  local  condition.  Recently  there 
was  carried  on  in  Salt  Lake  City,  as  in  other  progressive  cities,  a  cam- 
paign to  raise  $155,000  to  be  used  for  charitable  purposes.  Suppose  that 
at  the  beginning  of  1931  everybody  in  this  city  had  observed  the  fast  for 
the  special  purpose  of  aiding  the  needy  through  the  Community  Chest. 
There  are  140,000  people  in  Salt  Lake  City.  That  would  be  280,000 
meals  a  month.  At  an  average  cost  of  10c  a  meal,  $28,000  a  month  or 
$336,000  a  year  would  be  made  available 'for  the  relief  of  the  poor,  or 
more  than  twice  as  much  as  was  collected  for  this  worthy  purpose  dur- 
ing this  year. 

THE    CHURCH    TRIUMPHANT 

So  you  may  take  any  phase  of  this  Church  and  prove  its  potency  in 
its  particular  field  in  the  advancement  of  the  individual,  in  the  happiness 
and  peace  of  the  home,  in  the  progress,  safety,  and  perpetuity  of  so- 
ciety. 

God  help  us  to  contribute  our  might  and  influence  to  the  perpetua- 
tion of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  of  which  we  can  truly  say :  "Perse- 
cution has  not  crushed  it ;  power  has  not  beaten  it  back ;  time  has  not 
abated  its  force;  and  what  is  most  wonderful  of  all,  the  abuses  and 
treason  of  its  friends  have  not  shaken  its  stability."  May  neither  pros- 
perity nor  popularity  hinder  its  progress  any  more  than  these  other 
forces,  and  may  teachers  and  parents  unite  in  impressing  youth  particu- 
larly to  be  loyal  to  that  which  we  know  is  good  for  humanity  and  con- 
tributive  to  eternal  salvation,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.   Amen. 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

The  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "O  ye  mountains 
high." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Elmer  F.  Taylor,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Young  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  fourth  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  at  2  o'clock, 
Saturday  afternoon,  April  9th. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant,  who  presided,  announced  that  the  Relief 
Society  Ladies'  Chorus,  under  the  direction  of  Sister  Lottie  Sackett, 
would  sing  "Recessional,"  as  the  opening  number. 

After  the  singing  of  this  selection  by  the  Chorus,  the  opening 
prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Harry  L.  Payne,  President  of  the  St.  Joseph 
Stake. 

The  Relief  Society  Ladies'  Chorus  sang  the  anthem,  "Within  this 
sacred  dwelling,"  solo  part  iby  Brother  Cornelius  G.  Van  Os. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

There  is  one  thing  that  has  always  been  evident  to  me,  since  I  have 
made  a  study  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  is  this, 
that  there  has  been  a  constant,  progressive  divine  purpose  in  all  of  the 
dealings  of  God  with  man,  and  the  history  of  the  world  is  replete  with 
evidence  of  this  fact;  that  divine  purpose  is  manifest  in  the  coming  of 
all  the  servants  of  God,  the  prophets,  the  apostles,  and  in  the  revelations 
that  have  been  given  in  every  dispensation  of  his  providence. 

That  divine  purpose  has  been  stated  in  the  writings  of  the  prophet 
Moses  when  he  said :  "This  is  my  work  and  my  glory,  to  bring  to  pass 
the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man."  That  purpose  was  promul- 
gated before  the  foundations  of  this  earth  were  laid.  It  was  considered 
beforehand,  and  we  are  now  in  the  process  of  the  development  of  that 
purpose.  It  is  now  approaching  its  great  climax,  the  accomplishment  of 
God's  purposes  with  his  children  that  have  dwelt  upon  the  earth. 

It  is  true  that  we  have  only  glimpses  of  these  things  that  took  place 
before  the  foundations  of  this  earth  were  laid,  but,  oh,  what  light  and 
understanding  are  contained  in  those  few  glimpses  that  have  been  given 
to  us.    We  read  in  the  scriptures : 

"In  the  beginning  God  created  the  heaven  and  the  earth. 

"And  the  earth  was  without  form,  and  void ;  and  darkness  was  upon  the  face 
of  the  deep.    And  the  Spirit  of  God  moved  upon  the  face  of  the  waters. 

"And  God  said,  Let  there  be  light;  and  there  was  light. 

"And  God  saw  the  light,  that  it  was  good :  and  God  divided  the  light  from 
the  darkness. 

"And  God  called  the  light  Day,  and  the  darkness  he  called  Night.  And  the 
evening  and  the  morning  were  the  first  day." 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS  67 

In  holy  writ  reference  is  made  to  a  council  held  in  heaven  before 
the  foundations  of  the  earth  were  laid.  The  Lord  said  to  his  servant 
Job: 

"Where  wast  thou  when  I  laid  the  foundations  of  the  earth?  declare,  if  thou 
hast  understanding.  *  *  * 

"When  the  morning  stars  sang  together,  and  all  the  sons  of  God  shouted  for 
joy?" 

These  words  are  very  significant.  They  tell  of  a  time  when  the 
sons  of  God  were  assembled  together  and  shouted  for  joy.  That  par- 
ticular phrase  does  not  state  exactly  what  it  was  they  shouted  for,  but 
in  modern  revelation  that  is  made  clear.  It  was  the  promulgation  of 
that  divine  purpose  that  God  had  in  relation  to  his  children,  and  the 
very  plan  by  which  that  purpose  might  be  accomplished. 

I  am  going  to  read  again  from  the  scriptures : 

"In  the  beginning  was  the  Word,  and  the  Word  was  with  God,  and  the  Word 
was  God. 

"The  same  was  in  the  beginning  with  God. 

"All  things  were  made  by  him ;  and  without  him  was  not  any  thing  made 
that  was  made. 

"In  him  was  life;  and  the  life  was  the  light  of  men.  *  *  * 

"That  was  the  true  light  which  lighteth  every  man  that  cometh  into  the 
world." 

From  these  passages  of  scripture  we  must  concede  that  Jesus  Christ 
is  the  light  of  the  world  and  the  power  thereof  by  which  it  was  made. 
The  whole  plan  then  centers  in  that  Son  of  God  that  was  chosen  in  that 
primeval  day  to  carry  out  the  divine  purpose.  He  was  sent  into  the 
world, 

"For  God  so  loved  the  world,  that  he  gave  his  only  begotten  Son,  that  who- 
soever believeth  in  him  should  not  perish,  but  have  everlasting  life." 
"And  the  Word  was  made  flesh,  and  dwelt  among  us." 

This  revelation  of  the  Son  of  God,  who  was  with  the  Father  in  the 
beginning,  and  by  whom  all  things  were  made,  came  and  dwelt  among 
us  in  a  mortal  body  of  flesh  and  bones.  That  was  a  vital  part  of  the 
divine  plan. 

The  coming  of  the  children  of  God  to  this  earth  was  fundamental, 
for  it  was  to  bring  to  pass  their  immortality  and  eternal  life  that  this 
world  was  created,  that  God  sent  his  Only  begotten  Son.  From  the 
very  beginning  we  see  the  purpose  in  the  course  of  its  development. 
This  Son  of  God  was  born  of  the  virgin  Mary.  An  angel  of  the  Lord 
appeared  unto  her  and  told  her  that  she  was  greatly  favored  among 
women ;  that  she  had  found  favor  with  the  Lord ;  that  she  would  con- 
ceive and  give  birth  to  a  son,  and  should  call  his  name  Jesus,  and  he 
should  be  called  the  Son  of  God.  Said  Mary  unto  this  angel,  "How 
shall  this  be,  seeing  that  I  know  not  a  man?"  And  the  angel  replied, 
"The  Holy  Ghost  shall  come  upon  thee,  and  the  power  of  the  Highest 
shall  overshadow  thee;  therefore  also  that  holy  thing  which  shall  be 
born  of  thee  shall  be  called  the  Son  of  God." 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thus  is  recorded  the  coming  of  that  Son  of  God  in  mortal  body  to 
dwell  among  us,  the  Only  Begotten  Son  of  God  in  the  flesh.  None  other 
was  born  of  God  in  the  flesh,  and  yet  we  were  all  the  children  of  God, 
but  not  born  of  him  in  the  flesh.    Let  me  read  again  from  the  scriptures. 

"He  came  unto  his  own,  and  his  own  received  him  not." 

No,  they  crucified  him. 

"But  as  many  as  received  him,  to  them  gave  he  power  to  become  the  sons  of 
God,  even  to  them  that  believe  on  his  name : 

"Which  were  born,  not  of  blood,  nor  of  the  will  of  the  flesh,  nor  of  the  will 
of  man,  but  of  God." 

Here  we  have  it  plainly  stated  that  they  were  not  born  and  begotten 
of  God  in  the  flesh,  not  by  the  will  of  man,  but  of  God,  clearly  pointing 
to  the  fact  that  we  were  the  children  of  God  born  of  him  in  the  spirit 
before  the  foundations  of  this  earth  were  laid.  But  he  gave  unto  even 
them  that  believed  on  him  the  power  to  become  the  sons  of  God,  even  as 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  of  the  flesh  and  of  the  spirit.  For  it 
was  to  them  who  are  thus  born  of  the  spirit  that  he  gave  the  power  to 
become  the  sons  of  God.  What  was  that  power?  That  power  was  the 
Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  for  it  is  in  the  divine  purpose  that  all 
the  children  of  God  shall  be  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto  him  in 
body  and  in  spirit,  these  two  component  parts  of  our  eternal  souls,  be- 
fore they  can  be  received  into  his  celestial  dwelling  place,  before  they 
can  become  members  of  his  household  and  the  divine  purpose  be  accom- 
plished. 

But,  although  we  were  born  of  God  in  the  spirit  before  the  founda- 
tion of  this  earth  was  laid,  when  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God  sang 
together  and  shouted  for  joy  upon  the  promulgation  of  the  divine 
purpose,  it  still  remained  necessary  in  order  to  be  in  very  deed  his  sons 
and  daughters,  that  we  should  be  born  in  these  mortal  bodies  of  the  blood 
and  of  the  flesh,  which  were  not  begotten  of  him  but  of  our  natural 
parents.  Therefore,  when  Nicodemus  asked  the  Lord :  "How  can  a  man 
be  born  when  he  is  old?  can  he  enter  the  second  time  into  his  mother's 
womb,  and  be  born?"  he  made  it  plain  by  answering:  "Verily,  verily,  I 
say  unto  thee,  Except  a  man  be  born  of  water  and  of  the  spirit,  he  can- 
not enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God." 

Thus  it  will  be  seen  that  the  second  birth  is  necessary,  which  sym- 
bolizes the  first  one — born  of  the  water,  quickened  by  the  spirit,  and 
through  the  atoning  blood  of  Jesus  Christ,  we  are  made  the  sons  and 
daughters  of  God  throughout  the  endless  ages  of  eternity.  Thus  is 
brought  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man,  and  the  Gos- 
pel becomes  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  Such  is  the  divine  pur- 
pose. 

The  children  of  Abraham  have  been  called  "God's  chosen  people." 
That  too  was  in  the  divine  purpose,  and  people  ofttimes  ask  the  ques- 
tion, how  is  it  that  God  shows  such  preference  to  any  particular  family? 
Why  is  it  that  we  who  also  claim  to  be  the  children  of  Abraham  should 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS  69 

be  preferred  before  others  when  it  is  clearly  stated  in  holy  writ  that  God 
is  no  respecter  of  persons  ? 

Neither  is  he  a  respecter  of  persons,  but  this  process  of  choosing  the 
great  and  the  good  in  order  to  carry  out  the  divine  purpose  was  predi- 
cated on  their  faithfulness  and  did  not  begin  here,  but  before  we  came 
to  the  earth ;  and  these  were  chosen  for  their  integrity  and  because  they 
were  valiant  for  the  truth  in  order  to  carry  out  his  divine  purpose.  So 
it  appears  that  even  in  that  primeval  day  before  the  foundation  of  the 
earth  was  laid,  God  chose  the  great  and  noble  ones  from  among  his 
children  and  elected  that  they  should  come  through  the  lineage  of  Abra- 
ham, because  he  knew  Abraham  before  he  was  born  and  that  he  loved 
the  Lord  and  would  teach  his  children  after  him ;  and  also  in  order  to 
maintain  their  solidarity  as  a  nation  or  as  his  chosen  people. 

Let  me  read  from  the  Book  of  Abraham : 

"Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto  me,  Abraham,  the  intelligences  that  were 
organized  before  the  world  was ;  and  among  all  these  there  were  many  of  the 
noble  and  great  ones; 

"And  God  saw  these  souls  that  they  were  good,  and  he  stood  in  the  midst  of 
them,  and  he  said:  These  I  will  make  my  rulers;  for  he  stood  among  those  that 
were  spirits,  and  he  saw  that  they  were  good ;  and  he  said  unto  me :  Abraham, 
thou  art  one  of  them;  thou  wast  chosen  before  thou  wast  born." 

Thus  Abraham  was  chosen  to  become  the  father  of  the  faithful, 
arid  he  received  the  promise  that  in  him  and  his  seed  should  all  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth  be  blessed.  This  was  truly  a  natural  selection,  or,  if 
you  please,  a  survival  of  the  fittest.  In  this  respect,  at  least,  it  seems 
to  be  in  accord  with  modern  scientific  thought. 

This  does  not  mean  that  all  the  children  of  Abraham  will  be  chosen ; 
neither  does  it  mean  jthat  none  other  will  be  chosen.  The  children  of 
God  are  again  on  trial  in  this  their  second  estate,  and  the  natural  se- 
lection is  still  in  progress.  There  will  be  many  of  Abraham's  seed  cast 
out  on  account  of  their  evil  deeds  and  many  who  are  not  of  that  lineage, 
on  account  of  their  integrity  and  obedience  to  God's  plan,  will  be  grafted 
into  the  olive  tree  and  become  likewise  sons  and  daughters  of  God  and 
members  of  his  household. 

But  before  we  shall  become  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God  in  body 
and  in  spirit  we  shall  have  rendered  obedience  to  his  glorious  Gospel 
which  is  indeed  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  This  reconciles  the 
coming  and  development  of  the  house  of  Israel,  the  children  of  Abra- 
ham, as  God's  chosen  people.  It  also  explains  the  motive  for  the  scat- 
tering of  that  seed  that  all  nations  might  thereby  be  blessed,  for  it  was 
through  that  seed  that  the  knowledge  of  the  only  true  and  living  God 
was  perpetuated  in  this  world.  It  was  through  that  seed  that  God  has 
communicated  to  mankind ;  through  them  he  has  sent  his  apostles  and 
prophets  and  they  have  been  endowed  with  power  from  on  high.  They 
have  been  the  messengers  of  God  to  teach  the  people  the  way  of  life. 
God's  chosen  people,  then,  are  the  children  of  Abraham  through  Isaac 
the  son  of  promise  and  Jacob  to  whom  the  Lord  gave  the  name  of 
Israel ;  with  them  he  established  his  covenant.  Jacob  became  the  father 
of  twelve  sons  who  became  the  heads  of  the  twelve  tribes  of  Israel. 


70  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

We  live  in  a  day  when  the  children  of  Israel  are  again  to  be  gath- 
ered after  their  long  dispersion.  We  have  heard  something  of  the  re- 
turn of  the  Jews,  the  tribe  of  Judah,  to  the  land  of  their  inheritance, 
even  Palestine;  but  we  are  not  of  that  tribe  but  of  the  tribe  of  Joseph, 
"that  bright  and  glorious  morning  star,"  and  particularly  through - 
Ephraim,  his  son,  and  are  now  being  gathered  on  this  the  land  of  Joseph, 
given  to  him  and  his  seed  as  an  everlasting  inheritance — a  land  choice 
above  all  other  lands,  the  land  of  liberty,  even  the  land  of  America.  We 
are  of  that  lineage  and  are  now  being  gathered,  having  given  heed  to  the 
call  of  the  Gospel,  hearing  the  voice  of  the  true  shepherd,  even  as  we  did 
in  our  former  estate  when  we  were  counted  among  the  great  and  noble 
ones ;  but  now  as  then,  many  are  called  but  few  are  chosen.  The  nat- 
ural selection  still  goes  on. 

And  now  comes  the  great  responsibility  that  rests  upon  that  chosen 
few.  The  Savior  said,  "In  my  Father's  house  there  are  many  mansions 
*  *  *  I  go  to  prepare  a  place  for  you  *  *  *  that  where  I  am,  there  ye 
may  be  also."  When  the  Lord  makes  up  his  jewels  which  shall  con- 
stitute the  membership  of  his  household  you  may  be  sure  it  will  not  be 
limited  to  those  who  happen  to  live  upon  the  earth  during  a  Gospel 
dispensation.  Nevertheless  the  same  requirements  will  be  made  of  all 
before  they  can  become  members  of  his  household,  his  sons  and 
daughters  both  in  body  and  in  spirit.  This  must  be  accomplished  through 
obedience  to  his  Gospel  and  by  being  born  of  the  water  and  of  the 
Spirit.  Those  who  have  died  without  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  may, 
if  they  are  honest  in  heart,  be  converted  and  brought  to  repentance 
when  the  Gospel  is  preached  to  them  in  the  spirit  world,  but  even  as  the 
question  arose  in  the  mind  of  Nicodemus  with  reference  to  the  living, 
"How  can  a  man  be  born  when  he  is  old,"  the  question  now  might  nat-. 
urally  arise :  how  can  a  man  be  born  when  he  is  dead  ?  Provision  is 
likewise  made  for  this  in  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Hence 
baptism  and  other  ordinances  for  and  in  behalf  of  our  dead  kindred  by 
their  living  representatives ;  "For,"  as  we  read  in  the  scriptures,  "for 
this  cause  was  the  gospel  preached  also  to  them  that  are  dead  that  they 
might  be  judged  according  to  men  in  the  flesh,  but  live  according  to  God 
in  the  spirit."  Therefore  before  that  final  judgment  shall  overtake  the 
world,  that  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord,  he  has  sent  Elijah  the  prophet  as 
predicted  by  Malachi,  to  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children 
and  the  hearts  of  the  children  to  the  fathers  lest  he,  the  Lord,  should 
smite  the  earth  with  a  curse. 

It  would  indeed  be  a  calamity  if  we  should  fail  to  do  the  part  as- 
signed to  us  in  the  accomplishment  of  the  divine  purpose  as  children  of 
Abraham  and  descendants  of  Joseph  and  Ephraim,  namely,  performing 
the  work  for  and  in  behalf  of  our  ancestors  who  died  without  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  Gospel,  the  work  which  they  are  no  longer  able  to  do  for 
themselves,  namely,  baptisms  and  other  ordinances  in  order  that  they 
too  may  become  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God,  both  in  spirit  and  in 
body ;  all  this,  of  course,  being  conditioned  on  their  acceptance  and  obe- 
dience on  the  other  side.    Here  again  it  is  seen  that  God  is  no  respecter 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS  71 

of  persons  but  every  child  of  God  shall  hear  the  glad  tidings  and  those 
who  believe  on  Jesus  Christ  shall  be  given  power  to  become  sons  and 
daughters  unto  God,  even  as  many  as  shall  believe  on  him  from  father 
Adam  until  the  latest  generation  of  his  posterity.  May  we  be  num- 
bered among  that  grand  assembly  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Lord.    Amen. 

The  congregation  arose  and  sang  the  hymn,  "O  say,  what  is  truth?" 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

I  am  very  pleased,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  stand  before  you  this 
afternoon  and  represent  the  Mexican  mission,  as  well  as  the  Council  of 
the  Seventies.  You  understand,  of  course,  that  in  the  last  six  months, 
since  I  first  stood  before  this  congregation,  my  entire  time  has  been  spent 
in  the  Mexican  mission.  Because  of  that  I  shall  take  the  liberty  of 
telling  you  just  a  little  of  what  we  have  done  in  that  mission  and  what 
we  would  like  to  do,  and  then  I  shall  take  my  seat. 

Judged  from  one  point  of  view  we  may  say  that  the  Mexican  mis- 
sion is  in  good  shape.  From  another  point  of  view  we  must  say  that  it 
is  not  in  good  shape.  Our  Mexican  people  depend  entirely  upon  the 
service  that  they  can  render  others  for  their  food  and  clothing,  and  at 
times  like  this,  when  industry  is  at  a  standstill,  they  are  usually  the  first 
ones  to  go  out  of  employment.  Because  of  that  fact  there  is  consid- 
erable suffering  among  the  members  of  the  Church  of  that  race,  and 
because  of  that  fact  also  thousands  and  thousands  of  the  people  with 
whom  we  were  wont  to  make  contact  in  our  missionary  labors  have 
found  it  expedient  to  return  to  Mexico. 

I  think  close  to  a  hundred  thousand  Mexicans,  perhaps,  from  the 
United  States,  have  been  repatriated,  as  they  say,  within  the  last  year. 
I  passed  one  afternoon  between  Laredo  and  San  Antonio  nore  than 
twenty  vehicles  of  various  sorts  and  sizes,  laden  with  Mexicans  who 
were  homeward-bound,  all,  almost  without  exception,  poverty-stricken 
and  forced  to  retreat  because  of  the  lack  of  employment.  That  has 
taken  out  of  our  territory  just  that  many  prospective  candidates,  just 
that  many  people  with  whom  we  would  like  to  make  contact,  with  whom 
we  would  like  to  leave  Books  of  Mormon  and  tracts  explaining  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel.  They  are  gone  now  from  our  territory,  leaving, 
however,  a  great  many  people. 

Our  headquarters  are  in  Los  Angeles,  and  it  may  surprise  you,  just 
as  it  did  me,  to  learn  that  the  city  of  Los  Angeles  is  reputed  to  be  the 
second  largest  Mexican  city  in  the  world.  It  is,  or  was  just  recently, 
second  only  to  the  city  of  Mexico  in  number  of  Mexican  inhabitants. 
It  is  quite  natural  then  that  we  should  retain  for  the  time-being  at  least, 
under  existing  laws  of  Mexico,  our  headquarters  in  Los  Angeles. 

The  Mexican  people  whom  we  have  been  able  to  baptize,  most  of 
them  are  a  faithful  and  good  people.     Those  of  you  who  know  Mexi- 


72  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

cans  know  that  they  come  to  us,  almost  without  exception,  addicted  to 
the  use  of  tea,  coffee,  tobacco  and  liquor.  Many  of  them  are  converted, 
really,  who  do  not  ask  for  baptism,  because  they  feel  as  yet  too  weak 
to  give  up  those  vices ;  but  almost  without  exception  when  they  come  in- 
to the  Church  they  do  leave  off  those  habits,  and  they  are  to  be  con- 
gratulated for  that  fact.  They  come  to  our  conferences  in  great  num- 
bers, and  we  never  see  them  using  tobacco.  We  see  none  of  them, 
while  they  are  with  us  at  least,  under  the  influence  of  liquor,  and  we 
are  told  that  they  leave  off  the  use  of  tea  and  coffee.  I  think  that  you 
will  all  agree  with  me  that  any  people  of  their  habits,  their  past,  and 
their  history,  who  can  do  that,  are  a  worthy  people. 

Our  missionaries  are  enjoying  health  and  strength  at  the  present 
time.  We  have  had  one  case  of  very  serious  sickness  in  the  last  six 
months.  Very  fortunately  that  young  man  is  now  well  and  strong, 
carrying  on  his  missionary  labors  again.  The  Elders,  however,  many 
of  them  are  struggling,  just  as  the  Elders  of  other  mission  fields,  with 
a  lack  of  funds.  Some  of  them  have  had  to  leave  their  missions  even 
before  completing  a  full  year  of  service,  because  of  that  lack.  The  boys 
who  have  come  to  us  from  Mexico,  especially,  of  whom  we  had  a  few, 
have  had  extreme  difficulty,  because  their  parents  had  no  market  for 
their  crops  and  their  money  had  to  be  divided  by  three  when  it  was 
sent  into  the  United  States.  Some  of  them  have  remained  in  the  field 
with  utmost  difficulty  but  with  great  loyalty.  They  have  done  excellent 
service  for  us,  and  we  thank  them  for  it.  Others  of  them  have  had  to 
return  home  for  the  same  reason — their  parents  were  unable  longer  to 
find  the  funds  to  keep  them  there. 

We  don't  need  a  great  deal  of  money  in  our  mission  to  get  by,  but 
some  money  is  necessary.  We  were  pleased  beyond  expression,  just  a 
short  time  ago,  to  receive  a  communication  which  has  been  referred  to 
here  already,  from  a  certain  stake  presidency  in  the  Church,  to  the  ef- 
fect that  before  any  missionary  from  their  stake  should  be  released  we 
were  to  confer  with  them,  because  it  was  their  desire  that  every  mis- 
sionary they  had  in  the  field  should  complete  his  full  and  customary 
term  of  service.  It  made  me  weep  almost  to  think  that  I  didn't  have  a 
single  missionary  from  that  stake,  because  I  would  like  to  have  availed 
myself  of  that  good  offer. 

The  most  outstanding  thing  that  has  happened  to  the  mission, 
from  a  missionary  standpoint,  in  the  last  six  months,  was  the  visit  of 
Elder  Melvin  J.  Ballard  with  me  and  my  wife  throughout  the  mission. 
We  held  a  series  of  conferences  which  began  at  San  Diego  and  term- 
inated at  Albuquerque,  New  Mexico.  We  covered  the  entire  distance 
from  San  Diego  and  Los  Angeles,  to  San  Antonio,  Texas,  almost  on 
the  Gulf  of  Mexico. 

When  I  visit  my  Elders  I  travel  two  thousand  miles  before  I  find 
the  Elders  in  Brownsville  and  Corpus  Christi.  You  see,  it  is  a  long, 
extenuated  district,  and  there  are  only  thirty-four  men  and  women  to 
serve  that  territory  now.  We  need  more  help;  we  will  accept  it  gra- 
ciously; but  we  are  going  to  strive  with  all  our  power  and  all  our  zeal 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS  73 

to  carry  forward  with  what  men  and  women  we  can  get,  and  be  thank- 
ful for  them  at  this  time. 

The  trip  of  which  I  spoke  carried  us  to  the  City  of  Mexico.  The 
last  time  I  was  in  the  City  of  Mexico  I  was  there  as  a  student,  and  I 
left  there,  as  I  remember,  in  the  year  1905.  It  was  my  pleasure,  on  this 
trip,  to  meet  some  of  the  old  Saints  who  were  there  at  that  time,  still 
faithful  and  energetic  in  the  performance  of  their  duties.  Some  of  them 
wept  when  they  realized  that  they  were  looking  upon  the  son  of  my 
father,  who  baptized  them  there  in  about  1881,  and  who  are  still  faithful ; 
and  though  not  strong  physically,  they  are  strong  in  the  faith. 

We  were  really  astounded  and  surprised  at  the  success  those  people 
down  there  are  having  in  carrying  on  their  organizations  without  our 
help.  Many  of  you  perhaps  know  that  before  a  man  can  function  as  a 
priest  or  minister  in  Mexico,  under  the  present  law,  he  must  qualify  as  a 
native-born  Mexican  citizen,  and  we  have  few  of  such  among  our  race. 
There  are  a  few  young  men  now  in  Mexico  who  bid  fair  to  be  pros- 
pects for  that  service,  should  they  declare  themselves ;  they  are  eligible 
to  citizenship  by  birth ;  but  as  yet  we  have  none  of  them  functioning. 

I  think,  however,  it  may  be  considered  as  an  advantage  to  those 
people  that  the  law  was  passed  and  the  missionaries  were  taken  out  of 
Mexico,  for  the  responsibility  fell  directly  upon  the  shoulders  of  the 
native  brethren  and  sisters,  and  they  have  carried  it  on  well  and  faith- 
fully. We  dropped  in  on  them  as  a  surprise  Sunday  morning.  We 
found  the  Sunday  School  in  session,  which  was  conducted  very  much 
like  ours  here  at  home,  the  same  subjects  being  treated,  and  the  classes 
divided,  so  far  as  their  numbers  would  permit,  in  the  same  way.  We 
attended  a  meeting  as  visitors  only,  for  we  were  not  allowed  to  do  it  in 
the  capacity  of  our  calling.  We  listened  to  eight  or  ten  of  them  bear 
their  testimonies  and  talk,  and  it  was  an  excellent  service.  After  its 
dismissal  we  were  allowed  to  visit  with  them,  to  discuss  some  of  their 
problems  and  advise  them. 

I  can't  say  too  much  in  commendation  of  the  way  those  brethren, 
who  have  come  right  out  of  the  jacales,  as  they  are  called  there,  the 
poorer  houses  of  the  peasants,  are  carrying  on  this  work.  They  are 
faithful ;  they  are  true ;  they  are  intelligent.  They  represent  the  Indian 
blood  of  Mexico  almost  in  purity.  You  will  remember  that  all  of  the 
outstanding  leaders  of  Mexico,  almost  without  exception,  owe  their 
prominence  and  preeminence,  I  think,  to  their  Indian  blood.  The  great- 
est of  all  their  statesmen,  perhaps.  Benito  Juarez,  (was  a  pure-bred 
Indian.  Porfiro  Diaz  had  a  large  infusion  of  Indian  blood.  Their  pres- 
ent president  has  also.    He  is  almost  pure  Indian,  I  am  told. 

We  are  very  expectant  that  great  things  some  day  may  be  realized 
from  these  Indian  people.  They  are  very  typical.  They  are  very  much 
alike,  and  they  are  very,  very  interesting. 

We  had  also  the  privilege  of  visiting  the  ruins  of  Mexico  at  San 
Juan,  Teotihuacan,  and  the  pyramid  which  is  called  the  Snake  pyramid. 
They  are  full  of  possibilities,  from  an  archaeological  standpoint.  How- 
ever, in  using  them  to  substantiate  the  Book  of  Mormon  we  have  to  be 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

extremely  careful,  because  while  they  apparently  give  evidence  of  cer- 
tain things,  archaeologists  are  not  all  agreed  as  to  their  value.  They 
are,  however,  extremely  interesting. 

Not  the  least  interesting  thing  to  me  on  that  trip  to  Mexico  was 
my  visit  to  the  American  Embassy.  It  is  the  first  time  in  all  my  expe- 
rience that  I  have  ever  been  in  the  United  States  in  Mexico.  That  really 
is  the  case,  because  by  fiction  of  the  law  the  American  Embassy  is  con- 
sidered American  territory.  We  found  the  embassy  occupied  by  one 
of  our  own  people,  a  man  whose  faith  is  unquestioned,  and  whose 
friendship  we  found  to  be  pure  and  unalloyed.  We  enjoyed  for  three 
days  the  hospitality  of  Brother  and  Sister  J.  Reuben  Clark,  and  I  want 
to  tell  you  that  I  learned  to  love  them  while  I  was  there,  for  they  are 
indeed  Latter-day  Saints  right  through  to  the  core.  The  work  Am- 
bassador Clark  is  doing  in  Mexico  is  a  wonderful  work  and  a  wonder- 
ful advertisement  for  our  people.  They  know  who  he  is.  They  know 
what  people  he  represents.     They  honor  and  respect  him  for  his  stand. 

I  don't  know  that  I  should  take  more  time  this  afternoon.  I  have 
extremely  enjoyed  the  remarks  of  my  predecessors.  I  wish  to  bear  out, 
by  testimony,  the  things  that  they  have  spoken.  I  support  and  sustain 
and  uphold  the  President  of  this  Church  and  those  who  are  in  authority 
under  him.  It  has  been  my  privilege  to  know  him  and  his  first  coun- 
selor, at  least,  all  my  life,  and  I  can  bear  testimony  that  I  have  never 
received,  in  all  those  years,  which  are  past  fifty  now,  a  single  word  of 
counsel  that  t  could  not  pass  on  in  public  to  this  congregation.  I  know 
their  motives  are  pure  and  unsullied,  regardless  of  all  the  things  that 
may  be  said.  I  bear  you  this  testimony  and  I  stand  here  to  uphold  it, 
and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.    Amen. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Temple  Block 

Mission 

I  realize  the  responsibility  this  afternoon,  for  I  not  only  represent 
the  First  Council  of  Seventy  but  the  great  mission  here  at  the  Temple 
Square  as  well.  Presiding  over  this  mission  as  I  do,  having  been  called 
by  the  First  Presidency,  I  am  glad  to  say  something  about  the  mission 
and  also  to  bear  my  testimony  of  the  truth  of  this  Gospel  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior.  Connected  as  I  am  with  the  University  of  Utah,  I  come 
in  contact  with  hundreds  of  the  boys  and  girls  of  this  State  and  other 
States,  and  I  feel  that  I  appreciate  something  of  the  struggles  they 
are  making. 

Here  at  the  Temple  Square  thousands  of  people  come  to  us  yearly. 
They  come  here  as  travelers,  as  tourists  ;  and  the  Bureau  of  Information 
which  has  been  erected  for  them  is  the  place  where  they  obtain  literature 
and  information  concerning  the  doctrines  of  the  Church.  A  different 
type  of  people  come  to  us  now  as  compared  with  those  who  came  a 
few  years  ago.  People  came  with  criticism  in  their  hearts  and  a  great 
deal  of  hate  of  what  we  believe.     But  today  it  is  seldom  that  people 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG  75 

do  not  appreciate  something  of  the  beauty  of  the  grounds,  the  greatness 
of  the  buildings,  and  above  all,  the  message  which  we  missionaries  give 
to  them.  There  are  fifteen  missionaries  connected  with  this  mission 
and  they  are  a  choice  lot  of  brethren  and  sisters  and  are  doing  a  wonder- 
ful work  here.  .We  try  to  approach  all  people  with  the  attitude  of  mind 
as  expressed  by  the  old  prophet  Malachi  when  he  said:  "Are  we  not 
all  children  of  the  same  God?    Is  not  God  the  Father  of  us  all?" 

Every  day  letters  come  to  us  expressing  gratitude  for  the  message 
that  people  have  received,  and  I  have  in  my  pocket  now  a  letter  that  I 
received  only  this  morning  from  Dr.  Teeling  of  London,  a  graduate 
of  Oxford  University  and  a  representative  of  one  of  the  departments 
of  government  in  London.  Dr.  Teeling  was  our  guest  here  for  a  few 
days  and  made  a  careful  investigation  of  the  history  and  the  doctrines 
of  the  Church.  He  wrote  us  a  very  lovely  letter  thanking  us  for  what 
he  had  obtained  here  and  asking  us  to  visit  him  in  London.  So  we 
receive  such  letters  every  day.  People  are  appreciative  and  we  appre- 
ciate them. 

Not  long  ago  some  prominent  students  from  one  of  the  great 
universities  of  America  came  through.  These  students  were  on  their 
way  to  Southern  Utah  to  study  the  geological  formation  of  the  canyons. 
They  came  here  and  spent  the  day  and  I  had  the  pleasure  of  taking 
them  through  the  grounds  and  buildings,  and  as  they  went  back  through 
our  little  museum — which  by  the  way  one  of  the  attendants  of  the 
British  Museum  says  is  one  of  the  smallest  museums  in  the  United 
States,  but  'for  quality  one  of  the  finest — they  read  those  lovely  mottoes 
we  have  in  the  museum.  There  are  fourteen.  I  want  to  read  them 
to  you  because  they  were  carefully  chosen : 

"God  created  man  in  His  own  image,  in  the  image  of  God  created 
He   him." — Genesis. 

"God  ever  works  with  those  who  work  with  him,"  is  a  saying  of 
Aristotle. 

"Reverence  for  God  is  the  basis  of  immortality." — The  Talmud. 

"Seek  ye  out  of  the  best  books  words  of  wisdom."'— Doctrine  and 
Covenants. 

"With  malice  towards  none,  |with  charity  for  all." — Abraham 
Lincoln. 

"Yea,  truth  and  justice  then  will  down  return  to  men." — Milton. 

"My  strength  is  of  the  strength  of  ten  because  my  heart  is  pure." 
— Tennyson. 

"What  a  piece  of  work  is  man ;  in  apprehension  how  like  a  god." 
— Shakespeare  (Hamlet). 

"The  grace  of  God  is  all  powerful." — Stevenson. 

"The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence. "t — Doctrine  and  Covenants. 

"Reverence  is  the  chief  joy  and  power  of  life."- — Ruskin. 

"Faith  is  happiness,  illumination  and  strength." — Balzac. 

"A  gentleman  is  a  man  of  truth;  lord  of  his  own  actions." — 
Emerson. 

"What  is  true  and  just  and  honest,  all  of  virtue  shall  endure." — 
Browning. 


76  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

These  students  read  these  inscriptions,  and  letters  came  back  from 
the  university  that  they  represented,  asking  that  we  send  copies  of  them. 
In  our  conversation  with  one  of  the  students,  this  remark  was  made, 
that  "a  people  who  profess  a  firm  faith  and  belief  in  Jesus  Christ  and 
could  accept  the  truths  of  the  great  philosophers  of  the  world  are 
certainly  on  the  road  to  a  greater  faith  and  religion  than  any  other  people 
he  has  ever  known.  Said  he :  "There  is  a  rare  combination  among  you 
in  your  lives  of  heart  and  intelligence." 

So  we  feel  that  we  are  getting  some  results  at  this  mission.  The 
high  and  low,  the  rich  and  poor  come  to  us,  but  with  us  there  are  no 
high,  low,  rich  or  poor.  All  people  are  children  of  God  and  they  come 
here  and  take  away  with  them  something  of  the  spirit  of  the  Mission, 
something  of  the  spirit  of  Christ,  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Now  in  speaking  and  thinking  of  the  youth,  we  have  great  faith 
in  the  youth  of  the  land,  and  faith  in  the  youth  of  this  State.  Personally, 
the  boys  and  girls  in  our  State  university  and  all  other  institutions  of 
the  State  and  elsewhere  are  to  me  fine  types  of  character.  Naturally 
they  need  directing  and  at  times  they  do  hear  things  that  shake  their 
faith  in  God  to  the  very  foundation.  They  hear  expressions  they  cannot 
understand.  They  sometimes  come  with  all  the  honesty  of  heart  and 
ask  what  to  do  under  certain  circumstances.  I  have  them  almost  daily 
in  my  office.  But  those  girls  and  boys  are  precious  souls,  they  are 
lovely  characters  naturally,  and  if  they  can  only  be  touched  with 
divine  truth  they  will  be  honest,  they  will  be  truthful;  if  we  can  only 
get  them  to  realize  above  all  things  that  while  it  is  good  to  know  the 
truth,  it  is  far  greater  to  be  a  man  or  woman  of  the  truth.  So  I  feel 
encouraged  when  I  meet  them.  Jesus  Christ  came  into  the  world  as 
described  in  the  second  chapter  of  Sf.  Luke,  he  died  for  you  and  me, 
and  the  night  before  he  went  to  his  crucifixion  he  announced  to  his 
disciples  and  to  all  the  world  that  he  is  the  way,  the  truth,  and  the 
light.  "I  am  the  way,  and  the  truth,  and  the  light,"  said  Jesus,  and 
through  him  we  come  to  the  .final  understanding  of  life,  a  joyful 
understanding,  and  as  a  result  of  it  a  happiness  that  we  are  all  seeking. 
This  is  life,  and  life  eternal  to  live  the  Gospel  because  of  an  understand- 
ing of  Jesus  Christ  <and  him  crucified.  It'  was  an  old  prophet,  Zachar- 
iah,  who  said:  "I  will  stir  up  thy  sons,  O  Zion,  against  thy  sons,  O 
Greece."  That  conflict  between  Greece  and  Zion  began  far  back  in 
the  centuries  and  it  is  going  on  today.  We  mean  by  that  the  conflict 
between  the  people  who  have  faith — God-given  faith  in  Almighty  God1 — 
and  the  people  who  without  the  faith  are  seeking  truth  by  science  and 
philosophy.  What  the  youth  need  today  is  to  be  stirred  to  a  knowledge 
of  God ;  to  understand  that  the  sublimest  thing  of  all  life  is  the  simple 
faith  in  God  the  Father,  in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost 
— the  greatest  truth  for  you  and  me  and  yet  the  simplest.  This  is 
fundamental,  and  if  the  youth  can  only  get  to  see  that  after  all,  civiliza- 
tion has  always  been  based  on  religion  and  always  will  be,  and  that  the 
religion  of  God  comes  from  one  great  fundamental  source,  namely, 
revelation — (God  is  understood  throjugh  knowledge,  God  is  (known 
through  revelation ;  and  those  two  great  principles,  if  they  are  known 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG  77 

and  can  be  seen  and  understood,  the  faith  of  the  youth  then  will  grow 
and  they  will  always  know  that  after  all,  morality,  the  richness  of  life, 
the  sublimity  of  all  things,  lie  in  the  simple  Gospel  of  Christ.  It  is 
beautiful  this  Gospel,  for  truth  is  beauty,  and  beauty  is  truth. 

Now  if  we  can  come  to  know  the  youth,  this  buoyant  youth,  we 
will  be  better  able  to  teach  them,  and  their  faults  and  failings  will  be 
eradicated  one  by  one.  They  will  stand  supreme  before  God  as  his 
children,  and  be  masters  of  selves  and  servants  of  each  other.  "I  am 
the  way,  the  life,  and  the  truth,"  spoke  Jesus.  When  we  come  to 
realize  this  greath  truth,  we  will  open  our  hearts  more  and  more  to  the 
lesson  that  life  has  a  meaning,  and  a  meaning  for  good ;  that  the  moral 
world  is  governed  by  the  purpose  and  a  purpose  of  love;  we  will  bend 
to  God's  will,  and  everything  we  experience  will  speak  to  us  of  a 
Father's  heart.  Let  us  look  forward  with  hope  and  confidence  and 
place  our  lives  in  the  hands  of  God.    My  brethren  and  sisters: 

"We  know  the  arduous  life,  the  eternal  laws 
To  which  the  triumph  of  all  good  is  given; 
High  sacrifice,  and  labour  without  pause 
-    Even  to  the  death." 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  all,  I  ask  in  Jesus  name.    Amen. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  am  very  anxious  as  well  as  desirous  that  I  be  under  the  influ- 
ence of  the  right  spirit,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  I  have  no  ambition,  no 
desire  but  to  serve  the  Lord  and  to  keep  his  commandments  and  to  ful- 
fil and  complete  my  labors. 

I  have  been  very  much  impressed  with  one  thought,  and  I  have  had 
quite  a  number,  and  that  is:  the  number  of  speakers  that  have  spoken 
during  this  Conference.  If  they  have  not  reached  pretty  much  all  the 
people  then  they  have  not  fulfilled  what  I  believe.  I  believe  that  in  this 
Church  and  among  the  children  of  men  there  are  people — there  may  not 
be  very  many — who  understand  me.  Perhaps  I  may  be  the  only  one 
among  you  who  can  reach  my  kind  of  people.  Well,  if  that  is  true,  why 
not  let  me  be  natural  and  talk  to  them?  You  who  do  not  like  my  talk 
can  go  to  sleep  if  you  want  to.  As  long  as  I  can  reach  a  soul  when 
under  the  influence  of  the  Holy  Spirit  and  plant  a  seed  of  truth  in  his 
heart,  it  seems  to  me,  with  all  the  experience  I  have  had,  it  would  be  a 
wonderful  thing. 

I  remember  that  not  many  Conferences  ago  I  was  called  to  the 
stand  just  hefore  the  Conference  adjourned.  President  Grant  told  me 
I  had  seven  minutes — I  took  three — and  I  think  it  is  the  only  time  that 
President  Grant  ever  shook  hands  with  me  after  one  of  my  talks. 
(Laughter)  President  Grant  did  not  shake  hands  with  me  because  of 
what  I  said ;  it  was  because  I  left  him  four  minutes,  and  that  is  more 
than  any  of  the  other  brethren  had  ever  done. 

I  have  had  another  idea  quite  a  while,  and  I  think  I  will  express  it. 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

You  see  that  great  big  clock  over  there.  I  cannot  see  the  hands,  my  eyes 
are  not  as  good  as  they  used  to  be.  Well,  with  that  great  big  clock 
before  me  and  this  microphone  in  front  of  me  then  tell  a  man  to  get  the 
Holy  Spirit!  j( Laughter) 

Now,  what  I  am  trying  to  get  at  is  this :  it  takes  intelligent  people 
to  understand  what  I  am  trying  to  get  at.  I  do  not  do  your  thinking 
for  you,  you  have  to  do  your  own  thinking.  If  I  give  you  a  little  chaff 
to  get  you  to  take  a  little  wheat,  my  trouble  has  always  been  you  choose 
the  chaff  and  lose  the  wheat. 

I  remember  a  long  time  ago  when  the  Mutuals  launched  the  Era. 
I  was  on  a  trip  with  Apostle  Francis  M.  Lyman — we  started  in  at  Sevier 
and  went  to  Panguitch  and  the  surrounding  settlements  and  to  Kanab 
and  St.  George ;  and  when  we  got  to  St.  George,  Brother  David  H.  Can- 
non, the  President  of  the  Stake,  and  Brother  Edward  Snow,  superin- 
tendent of  the  Mutuals,  with  their  buggies  transferred  us  to  Panacea. 
The  people  had  not  seen  an  Apostle  for  twenty  years,  and  it  was  Sun- 
day, a  fast  day.  Meetings  were  begun  in  the  morning  and  they  kept 
them  up  all  day,  and  we  were  fasting.  I  was  pretty  nearly  dead  at  four 
o'clock.  After  four  o'clock  Brother  Lyman  said,  "Now,  Brother  Kim- 
ball, get  up  and  tell  them  about  the  Era."  He  had  done  a  good  deal 
of  talking  himself  about  the  Era.  During  that  trip  I  think  we  got  four 
hundred  subscribers— $800.00.  I  wrote  out  all  receipts.  It  was  in 
September.  Brother  Lyman  at  this  meeting  told  me  to  get  up,  so  I 
did,  and  I  said :  "All  you  men  that  will  take  the  Era  if  we  will  let  you 
go  home,  raise  your  right  hand."  There  was  not  a  single  man  who  did 
not  raise  his  hand  and  subscribed  and  paid  $2.00  cash  for  the  Era. 
(Laughter)  Brother  Lyman  said:  "That  is  the  brightest  thing  you 
ever  did."  I  do  not  claim  that  was  inspiration ;  it  was  good  psychology. 
Really  they  paid  $2.00  to  get  out. 

I  am  trying  to  say  this  to  you  because  we  never  know,  if  we  listen 
to  the  whisperings  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  just  what  it  will  do  for  us. 

I  am  going  to  tell  you  a  story  that  I  have  never  told  before.  When 
I  was  president  of  the  Southern  States  mission,  after  a  year's  time  I 
concluded  that  I  would  try  to  hold  a  conference  in  a  city.  Up  to  that 
time  we  had  always  kept  out  of  cities.  So  I  made  my  arrangements 
with  the  president  of  the  conference  to  hold  such  a  meeting  and  to  se- 
cure some  place  where  we  could  hold  it.  We  had  no  money.  The  only 
place  they  could  secure  was  the  court  house.  I  told  the  Elders :  "I  will 
do  the  preaching,  and  if  they  kill  me  you  need  not  bother  any  further." 
The  people  were  very  prejudiced.  When  the  time  came  I  met  these 
Elders,  a  fine  body  of  men,  wonderful,  courageous  men,  men  of  faith— 
they  had  to  be  in  the  South.  We  went  to  the  court  house — all  those 
present  were  men ;  there  wasn't  a  woman  among  them,  and  we  all  knew 
what  that  meant.  When  there  are  no  women  there  is  a  great  deal  of 
danger.  It  is  dangerous  enough  when  they  are  present.  At  any  rate 
I  made  up  my  mind  to  deliver  my  message  as  fervently  and  humbly  as 
ever  a  president  of  a  mission  preached.  I  intended  to  do  all  the  talk- 
ing.    I  went  there  determined  to  preach  the  Gospel.     I  had  my  Bible, 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL  79 

and  I  am  well  acquainted  with  my  Bible.  I  cannot  find  anything  in  any- 
body else's  Bible.  I  have  owned  this  Bible  for  forty  years  and  it  is  well 
marked  and  every  subject  traced  in  my  own  penmanship.  I  would  not 
take  money  for  this  Bible.  I  went  there  believing  that  the  Spirit  of 
God  was  on  me.as  the  president  of  the  mission.  I  was  humble  as  a  child. 
It  was  the  only  time  in  my  life  that  I  have  ever  been  far  enough  away 
that  I  could  do  as  I  pleased.  Ever  since  that  time  I  have  been  close  in. 
!  I  got  up  to  preach  the  Gospel,  faith  and  repentance,  etc.  All  at 
once  something  came  over  me  and  I  opened  my  mouth  and  said  to  that 
body  of  men:  (The  building  was  crowded;  among  them  were  some  of 
the  leading  men)  "Gentlemen,  you  have  not  come  here  to  listen  to  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  know  what  you  have  come  for.  You  have 
come  to  find  out  about  the  Mountain  Meadows  Massacre  and  polygamy, 
and  God  being  my  helper  I  will  tell  you  the  truth."  And  I  did.  I 
talked  to  them  for  one  hour.  When  the  meeting  was  out  you  could 
hear  a  pin  drop.  There  was  no  comment ;  there  was  no  noise  or  con- 
fusion, and  we  went  to  the  hotel.  We  had  arranged  for  lodgings  at  a 
cheap  hotel.  After  a  short  time  a  brass  band  played.  Elder  Willard 
Bean  was  the  president  of  the  conference.  I  sent  him  out  to  find  what 
it  all  meant.  I  thought  it  meant  trouble.  So  he  inquired  and  they  told 
him :  "We  are  serenading  that  big  long  fellow."  That  is  the  only  brass 
band  I  have  ever  had  dispense  music  after  one  of  my  talks.  What  I 
want  to  ask  you  good  people  is  this :  Was  I  moved  upon  by  the  right 
spirit  ?  The  next  day  when  we  went  to  the  woods  to  hold  our  priesthood 
meeting,  which  we  always  held  in  the  woods — we  had  no  other  place — I 
said  to  those  Elders :  "Don't  one  of  you  dare  preach  that  sermon ;  it 
will  cost  you  your  life."    And  I  have  never  preached  it  since. 

What  I  am  beating  around  in  the  brush  to  put  over  is  this :  Does 
the  Lord  God  direct  his  servants?  He  certainly  does.  If  he  doesn't 
we  are  a  failure  and  we  are  no  better  than  others.  We  do  not  know 
just  what  to  say.  I  don't.  I  don't  know  just  how  to  say  it,  but  the  Lord 
being  my  helper  as  long  as  I  live  I  am  going  to  try  to  be  natural  and 
I  am  going  to  try  to  have  my  mind  open  with  the  hope  that  God  will 
give  me  his  Holy  Spirit  when  I  open  my  mouth  and  use  the  talent  which 
the  Lord  has  given  me. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  know  what  that  feeling  is.  I  have 
not  had  it  very  often,  but  I  know  that  there  is  such  a  thing  as  "the  still 
small  voice."     I  have  heard  it. 

My  time  is  up.  But  if  you  people  do  not  believe  that  I  sustain  the 
Authorities  of  this  Church  and  uphold  God's  work,  I  do.  I  don't  know 
how  I  could  prove  it  to  you  any  better  than  I  have  in  my  own  way. 
God  bless  you.    Amen. 

An  anthem,  "Holy  Redeemer,"  was  sung  by  the  Relief  Society 
Chorus. 

Elder  Samuel  F.  Smith,  President  of  the  Snowflake  Stake  pro- 
nounced the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Sunday,  April  10. 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Sunday  morning,  April  10th,  at  10  o'clock 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  presiding. 

All  the  seats  and  every  available  space  in  the  large  auditorium  and 
galleries  were  occupied  long  before  the  time  arrived  to  commence  the 
meeting.  Thousands  of  people  who  could  not  find  accommodation  in 
the  Tabernacle  congregated  in  the  Assembly  Hall  directly  south  of  the 
Tabernacle  and  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds,  where  they  listened  to  the 
services  as  they  were  broadcast  by  radio. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the  music  for  this  session,  and 
joined  with  the  congregation  in  'singing  the  opening  hymn,  "Praise  to 
the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Arthur  W.  Horsley, 
President  of  the  Carbon  Stake. 

The  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Grant  us  peace,  O  Lord." 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

"And  Sarah  was  an  hundred  and  seven  and  twenty  years  old.  These  were 
the  years  of  the   life  of    Sarah. 

"And  Sarah  died  in  Kirjatharba;  the  same  is  Hebron,  in  the  land  of 
Canaan ;  and  Abraham  came  to  mourn  for  Sarah  and  to  weep  for  her. 

"And  Abraham  stood  up  from  before  his  dead,  and  spake  unto  the  sons 
of  Heth,  saying, 

"I  am  a  stranger  and  a  sojourner  with  you;  give  me  a  possession  of  a 
burying  place  with  you,  that  I  (may  bury  my  dead.  *  *  * 

"And  Abraham  stood  up,  and  bowed  himself  to  the  people  of  the  land,  even 
to  the  children  of  Heth,  *  *  * 

"Saying,  *  *  *  hear  me,  and  entreat  for  me  to  Ephron,  the  son  of  Zohar, 

"That  he  may  give  me  the  cave  of  Machpelah,  which  he  hath,  which  is  in 
the  end  of  his  field.  *  .*  * 

"I  will  give  ;thee  money  for  the  field ;  take  it  of  me,  and  I  will  bury  my 
dead  there. 

"And   Ephron  answered   Abraham,  saying  unto  him, 

"My  lord,  hearken  unto  me :  the  land  is  worth  four  hundred  shekels  of 
silver ;  what  is  that  betwixt  (me  and  thee  ?  bury  therefore  thy  dead.  *  *  *' 

"*  *  *  and  Abraham  weighed  to  Ephron  the  silver,  which  he  had  named  *  *  * 
current  money  with  the  merchant.  *  *  * 

"And  *  *  *  Abraham  buried  Sarah  his  wife  in  the  cave  of  the  field  of 
Machpelah,  before  Mamre."   (Genesis  Chapter  23) . 

Sarah  died  iB.  C.  1872,  j3,800  years  ago.  Fifteen  years  after  the 
death  of  his  wife,  Abraham  was  carried  by  his  sons  Isaac  and  Ishmael 
and  buried  by  her  side,  in  the  cave  of  Machpelah.  Later  the  remains 
of  Isaac  and  Rebecca  were  interred  there ;  and  after  the  death  of  Jacob, 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS  81 

the  grandson  of  Abraham,  who  passed  away  in  Egypt,  his  body  was 
embalmed  and  carried  by  his  son  Joseph  up  to  Hebron,  in  the  land  of 
Canaan,  and  interred  in  the  same  spot  that  contained  the  remains  of  his 
father  and  grandparents. 

[FIRST   REFERENCE   TO  USE   OF   MONEY 

I  have  quoted  this  scripture,  not  alone  because  of  the  fact  that  it 
refers  to  Abraham,  the  founder  of  the  Israelitish  race  and  our  ancestor, 
but  because  it  is  the  earliest  date,  so  far  as  I  am  aware,  at  which 
money  is  referred  (to  as  a  medium  of  exchange  and  legal  tender  for 
debt  among  men. 

This  is  a  General  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  an  occasion  when  the  members  of  the  Church  assem- 
ble together  to  be  taught'  the  way  of  the  Lord,  that  they  may  walk  in 
his  paths. 

,  TEMPORAL    THINGS 

It  is  a  time  when  the  elders  of  the  Church,  who  are  selected  to 
address  the  assembled  congregation  are  expected  to  treat  subjects 
which  have  to  do  with  the  spiritual  things  of  the  kingdom,  rather  than 
with  temporalities. 

Notwithstanding  this  fact,  and  at  the  risk  of  being  considered  some- 
what out'  of  place,  with  your  faith  to  assist  me,  I  am  prompted  because 
of  the  occurrences  of  the  past  several  weeks  to  confine  my  remarks  to 
the  temporal  interests  of  my  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  Church,  and 
the  people  of  the  state  at  large,  because  it  is  a  subject  that  affects  all  of 
us,  men  and  women,  members  of  the  Church,  and  those  who  are  not 
affiliated  with  it. 

THE  ORIGIN  AND  DEVELOPMENT  OF   MAN'S  OCCUPATIONS 

To  trace  the  development  of  man  from  the  beginning,  and  the 
origin  of  the  various  occupations  and  professions  which  he  now  follows 
in  our  intricate  and  complex  life,  would  take  us  over  a  long  and  winding 
trail.  i  ' 

I  suppose  that  in  the  primitive  and  far  distant  past,  man  first 
became  a  husbandman.  His  first  indispensable  necessity  was  food,  for 
the  sustenance  of  his  body,  and  this  he  learned  could  (be  provided  by 
cultivation  of  the  soil.  He  learned  that  as  the  seasons  came  and  went 
there  were  periods  of  seed  time  and  harvest;  that  in  order  to  reap 
he  must  sow,  and  that  his  crop  must  be  gathered  and  garnered  to 
provide  for  future  necessities.    Thus  he  became  a  farmer. 

Food  to  sustain  his  body  was  not  his  only  requirement,  he  must 
have  clothing  with  which  to  cover  it.  This  could  be  provided  from  the 
wool  and  hides  of  animals,  and  so  he  became  a  tender  of  flocks  and 
herds,  as  well  as  a  tiller  of  the  soil. 

As  time  passed  he  discovered  that  he  had  other  necessities.  He 
was  subject  to  sickness  and  accident;  a  limb  might  be  '.broken,  a  skull 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

fractured,  or  because  of  improper  diet  his  stomach  might  become  de- 
ranged. 

In  the  beginning,  with  the  assistance  of  his  wife  and  neighbors, 
he  attended  to  these  human  afflictions  as  best  he  could ;  then  it  occurred 
to  one  of  these  neighbors  that  the  application  of  simple  remedies  would 
bring  relief  to  a  disordered  stomach,  that  by  binding  a  broken  limb  with 
splints  it  would  more  quickly  heal  and  become  normal,  that  by  re- 
moving the  fragment's  from  a  broken  skull  and  taking  the  pressure 
from  the  brain,  the  patient  was  relieved. 

Men  began  to  study  the  anatomy  of  the  human  body  and  provide 
means  for  its  proper  care.  People  were  willing  to  pay  for  the  service 
rendered,  and  thus  the  profession  of  medicine  and  surgery,  which  today 
does  so  much  to  prolong  human  life  and  relieve  suffering,  became  one 
of  the  professions  of  man. 

PROFESSIONS  ARISE 

As  society  developed  laws  became  necessary  for  its  government 
and  protection.  Men  violated  these  laws  and  were  punished  under 
them.  One  day  a  man  said  to  his  neighbor,  who  had  been  adjudged 
guilty  of  an  offense :  You  were  not  guilty  of  a  violation  of  the  law, 
the  statute  under  which  you  were  punished  was  not  properly  interpreted. 
If  you  are  in  trouble  again  come  to  me,  and  for  a  consideration  I  will 
defend  and  free  you. 

Thus  a  new  profession  was  added  to  the  occupations  of  man,  which 
has  developed  until  men  have  become  so  profound  in  their  knowledge 
and  interpretations  of  modern  law  and  its  proper  application,  that 
the  judge  himself,  when  criminals  are  arraigned  before  him,  can  scarcely 
determine  whether  they  are  innocent  or  guilty. 

MEDIUM  OF  EXCHANGE  CREATED 

In  the  beginning,  trade  was  carried  on  by  exchange  of  commodities, 
rather  than  by  purchase  and  sale,  with  a  recognized  medium  of  exchange. 
In  fact,  in  my  time  I  have  been  in  countries  where  this  was  almost  the 
universal  custom. 

As  civilization  developed  it  became  apparent  that  ifor  the  conveni- 
ence of  commerce  and  trade  some  medium  of  exchange,  with  a  fixed 
and  recognized  ratio  of  value,  must  be  created ;  and  at  a  very  early  date 
gold  and  .silver  were  used  in  the  beginning  counted  by  weight,  as  dust  or 
in  bars,  as  shown  in  the  scripture  which  I  have  quoted,  when  Abraham 
weighed  to  Ephron,  the  son  of  Zohar,  400  shekels  of  silver,  about 
$250.00,  3,800  years  ago.  -  At  a  later  date  minted  coins,  of  specific 
weight,  came  into  use. 

BANKING  SYSTEM  DEVELOPED 

As  people,  by  industry  and  economy  accumulated  more  than  was 
required  for  their  personal  necessities,  and  merchants  began  to  pene- 
trate new  countries  with  their  caravans,  and  ships  to  sail  the  seas, 
it  was  common  practice  for  those  who  had  a  surplus  of  money  to 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVTNS  83 

lend  it  to  those  engaged  in  trade,  in  order  that  commerce  might  be 
carried  on  between  different  peoples  and  nations. 

The  borrower  was  required  to  pay  a  reasonable  interest  on  the 
money  obtained,  but  excessive  usury  was  strictly  forbidden. 

It  was  from  this  simple  beginning  that  our  present  system  of 
banking  has  developed,  until  it  has  become  the  most  important  business 
occupation  of  the  world. 

This  may  appear  to  be  an  extravagant  statement,  but  it  is  never- 
theless true. 

The  business  of  the  banker  brings  him  in  closer  contact'  with  every 
field  of  human  endeavor  than  that  of  any  other  occupation. 

He  is  the  custodian  of  the  hard-earned  money  of  the  husbandman, 
the  widow,  the  fatherless,  the  doctor,  lawyer,  merchant,  manufacturer, 
and  the  man  who  has  no  occupation  at  all,  of  whom  I  sometimes  think 
we  have  too  many,  for  it  was  written  long  ago  that  the  idler  shall  not 
eat  the  bread  nor  wear  the  apparel  of  the  laborer. 

RESPONSIBILITY  OF   THE  BANKER 

As  custodian  of  the  savings  of  the  depositor,  the  banker  assumes 
the  responsibility  of  investing  the  funds  entrusted  to  him  in  a  manner 
that  will  bring  to  the  depositor  a  reasonable  return  in  interest  upon  his 
savings,  and  at  the  same  time  compensate  the  banker  for  the  responsi- 
bility he  assumes  as  the  agent  of  the  depositor,  'which  is  very  great'. 

Banking  is  a  partnership  between  the  stockholder,  who  provides 
the  capital  upon  which  the  bank  is  founded  and  the  reserves  which 
guarantee  the  security  of  its  deposits,  and  the  depositors  who,  for  their 
own  protection,  become  obligated  to  support  the  bank  in  which  their 
money  is  placed. 

The  bank  becomes  a  debtor  to  it's  depositors,  and  at  the  same  time 
the  creditor  of  the  world.  It  is  through  banks  that  all  nations  maintain 
their  'financial  standing  and  tredit,  one  with  the  other.  Through  bank 
credits  the  railroads  which  thread  the  world  and  make  possible  the 
quick  transportation  of  people  and  things  from  place  to  place,  by  which 
our  surplus  products  are  transported  to  profitable  markets,  and  the 
products  of  other  people  which  we  require  brought  to  us,  are  made 
possible. 

It  is  by  means  of  bank  credits  that  our  ships  sail  the  seas,  that 
the  forces  which  protect  us  'from  the  invasion  of  foes  from  without 
and  enemies  within,  are  maintained. 

As  stated,  the  occupation  of  the  banker  brings  him  in'closer  contact 
with  every  field  of  human  endeavor  than  that  of  any  other  occupation. 
Thus  it  will  be  seen  that  the  success  of  the  banker  depends  upon 
the  stability  of  all  other  occupations  and  business  activities,  consequently 
it  becomes  his  duty  to  strive  for  the  stabilization  of  all. 

He  must  be  constantly  alert,  constantly  in  touch  with  all  of  these 
various  interests  to  which  reference  has  been  made,  in  order  that  he 
may  know  just  when  to  extend  credit,  'when  to  withhold  it;  having 
always  in  mind  that  his  first'  duty  is  to  the  people  who  have  entrusted 
their  money  to  his  care;  never  forgetting  that  while  it  is  his  duty  to 


84  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

help  those  who  need  assistance,  his  business  is  not  so  toych  one  of 
sentiment  as  of  duty. 

The  greatest  of  all  teachers  said:  "What  mattereth  it  if  a  man 
gain  the  whole  world,  and  lose  his  own  soul  ?" 

Permit  me  to  paraphrase  this  scripture  by  saying:  What  mattereth 
it  if  a  man  do  a  large  banking  business  and  assist  many  needy  individuals 
and  enterprises,  if  in  doing  so  he  wreck  his  own  credit,  lose  the  money 
of  his  depositors  and  stockholders,  and  bring  discredit  to  the  officers  of 
the  bank  and  to  the  banking  [business  in  general? 

MAN    ONLY    UNIT 

Whatever  the  occupation  of  man  may  be  he  acts  only  as  a  small 
unit,  in  a  sphere  which  at  first  thought  may  appear  to  be  independent, 
but  jwhich,  after  all,  is  merely  a  cog  pin  the  wheel  of  human  progress 
and  development,  one  of  the  many  pillars  which  support  the  tremendous 
structure  that  our  modern  life  has  builded;  and  the  progress  and 
development  of  this  intricate  System  requires  that  each  of  these  pillars 
be  kept  in  place,  lest  the  structure  fall  of  its  own  weight  and  thus 
bring  disaster  and  chaos  to  all. 

We  cannot  say  to  the  husbandman,  we  have  no  need  of  you.  His 
occupation  is  still  the  one  indispensable  vocation  of  man.  We  cannot 
say  to  the  manufacturer,  we  can  dispense  with  your  service.  He  takes 
the  raw  material  which  exists  and  converts  it  into  the  things  which 
add  to  our  comfort  and  convenience.  The  merchant  is  indispensable 
to  our  modern  system  of  business.  He  provides  for  us  the  things  which 
we  need,  brings  them  to  us  from  afar  to  add  to  our  happiness.  The 
doctor  and  lawyer  are  indispensable  to  our  modern  life. 

The  miner  takes  from  the  earth  the  treasure  which  lies  hidden 
there,  and  brings  into  circulation  new  money  which  before  was  not 
available.  His  contribution  to  the  commerce  of  the  world  cannot  be 
overestimated.  To  all  of  these  occupations  the  banker  is  a  necessary, 
in  fact  indispensable,  adjunct. 

HOW  THE  DEPRESSION  MAY  BE  OVERCOME 

Every  intelligent  person  who  is  familiar  with  current  events, 
knows  that  a  cloud  of  financial  depression,  the  like  of  which  has  never 
before  been  known,  hovers  over  the  world,  so  dark  and  ominous  that 
the  sunshine  of  hope  can  scarcely  penetrate  it. 

Like  the  great  World  War,  it  has  found  its  way  into  the  most  re- 
mote corners  of  the  world. 

It  can  be  met  and  overcome  by  the  united  effort  of  all  of  the 
people  who  are  affected  by  it.  A  beneficent  and  willing  government 
cannot  accomplish  the  task  without  the  loyal  support  of  its  citizens. 
The  citizens  cannot  do  it  without  the  support  of  the  government. 

Banks  cannot  do  it  without  the  cooperation  of  the  depositors. 
Depositors  cannot  do  it  without  the  cooperation  of  the  banks.  United 
together  the  task  can  be  accomplished. 

If  the  government,  the  states,  the  counties  and  municipalities  will 
exercise  rigid  economy  in  the  expenditure  of  public  funds;  if  citizens 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS  85 

will  loyally  support  and  patronize  the  industries  and  business  of  the 
nation,  state  and  community  in  which  they  reside;  if  bankers  will 
carefully  and  wisely  protect  the  money  of  depositors ;  if  depositors  will 
loyally  cooperate  with  the  banks  to  which  the  care  of  their  money  is 
entrusted ;  if  families  and  (individuals  will  live  within  their  income  and 
avoid  debt,  the  clouds  of  adversity  will  roll  away,  and  the  sun  of 
prosperity  and  peace  will  shine  again  upon  a  happy  and  prosperous 
people. 

CHAOS  THREATENS 

If  we  are  to  continue  the  lavish,  unnecessary  expenditure  of  money, 
and  dissipated  habits,  which  have  characterized  the  past  ten  years,  in 
both  public  and  private  life,  chaos  awaits  us. 

A  ,f ew  days  ago  a  person  asked  me  this  question :  "What  of  tomor- 
row?" 

I  answered :  "You  may  better  ask  me :  What  of  yesterday  ?  I  have 
had  the  experience  of  many  yesterdays,  while  tomorrow  is  a  sealed  book 
to  me."  Then  I  remembered  that  I  had  seen  as  many  tomorrows  as 
anyone  else.  I  Tomorrow  is  a  sealed  book  to  all  of  us,  except  as  we  are 
able  to  penetrate  it  by  the  eye  of  faith.  And  I  discover,  too,  that  while  I 
have  endeavored  to  profit  by  the  experiences  which  the  past  teaches, 
and  cheerfully  perform  the  tasks  which  the  present  brings,  I  have  lived 
largely  in  the  future. 

Tomorrow  has  always  been  full  of  promise  to  me,  and  the  future 
has  beckoned  me  on  with  the  assurance  that  as  the  days,  and  months, 
and  years,  come  and  go,  they  [will  bring  to  me  greater  happiness,  and 
added  experience  which  I  may  apply  to  my  own  affairs  and  in  service  to 
others — acting  today  according  to  the  light  and  wisdom  which  I  possess 
and  believing  that  each  tomorrow  has  something  better  in  store  for  me, 
and  when  this  mortal  life  is  ended  and  I  stand  upon  the  threshold  of 
another  world,  I  shall  still  be  looking  forward  toward  the  better  life  to 
which  I  aspire. 

PRAYS    FOR    WISDOM 

I  pray  God  our  Heavenly  Father  that  he  will  give  wisdom  to  those 
who  direct  the  affairs  of  our  government,  and  particularly  to  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  and  those  who  preside  over  you  in  the  Church, 
and  to  all  others  who  desire  and  seek  his  blessings  and  serve  him, 
that  the  clouds  of  adversity  may  iroll  away,  and  the  sunshine  of  pros- 
perity and  peace  bring  happiness  to  the  people  of  this  troubled  world. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  RUDGE.R  CLAWSON 

'President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  would  that  I  had  the  gift  of  eloquence 
with  which  to  give  expression  to  the  thoughts  in  my  heart.  But  since 
I  have  no  such  gift  I  must  be  contented  to  speak  as  best  I  can,  with 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

the  hope  that  if  I  speak  the  truth  it  will  be  sanctified  for  the  good  of 
those  who  are  present  and  of  those  who  are  listening  in. 

TESTIMONIES    THRILL 

I  have  been  deeply  impressed  and  thrilled  with  the  opening  address 
of  President  Grant  and  with  the  sermons  of  the  brethren  which  followed, 
and  I  have  also  been  very  deeply  impressed  with  the  singing  of  the 
choir  and  with  ithe  solos  that  have  been  given  at  this  Conference,  which 
have  been  inspiring. 

In  listening  to  the  spirited  remarks  and  fervent  testimonies  of  the 
mission  presidents  on  Friday,  I  was  thrilled  and  led  to  reflect  with  respect 
to  the  nature  of  their  ministry  and  the  responsibility  resting  upon  them, 
which  requires  that  they  should  carry  the  Gospel  message  to  the  nations 
of  the  earth,  and  particularly  to  this  nation  in  which  there  are  thirteen 
grand  divisions,  including  the  Temple  Block  mission,  numbering  in 
population  considerably  over  one  hundred  million  people.  This  re- 
sponsibility requires  that  they  should  lift  up  their  voices,  calling  the 
people  of  this  nation  and  others  to  repentance,  to  reformation,  and 
asking  them  to  give  heed  to  the  teachings  of  the  Gospel. 

They  are  to  call  upon  the  people  to  jepent,  which  if  they  do  will 
lead  to  the  acceptance  of  the  Gospel  doctrines,  even  those  of  baptism 
and  the  laying  on  of  hands.  But  the  people  must  remember  that 
repentance  precedes  baptism,  and  faith,  the  great  foundation  principle 
of  the  Gospel  structure,  precedes  repentance.  These  thoughts  and 
reflections  passed  through  my  mind. 

PROGRESS    REPORTED 

On  (Wednesday  last,  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  and  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  met  with  the  mission  presidents,  who  reported  their 
labors  in  some  detail,  which  showed  that  progress  is  being  made  in 
Gospel  conversations,  conversions  and  baptisms.  They  reported  that 
the  tithing  in  the  branches  of  the  mission  fields  for  last  year  kept  up 
very  well  indeed. 

It  was  shown  that  the  Gospel  message  is  being  declared  upon  the 
streets  of  the  various  cities  of  the  country,  in  halls  and  chapels,  in 
the  newspapers,  and  last,  but  not  least,  by  radio.  And  thus  the  voice 
of  warning  is  going  out  to  the  world.  For  remember  that  in  speaking 
of  these  particular  mission  presidents  I  did  not  mention  the  presidents 
of  other  missions,  numbering  about  fifteen  in  all. 

THE   CHARACTER   OF    GOD'S   WORK 

In  respect  to  this  very  important'  matter,  my  mind  rests  upon  a 
saying  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  Book  of  Moses,  which  saying  was 
mentioned  by  Elder  Stephen  L.  Richards  in  his  address  yesterday,  and 
also  Rulon  S.  [Wells ;  and  it  is  (this :  "This  js  rny  work  and  my  glory," 
said  the  Lord  to  Moses,  "to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal 
life  of  man." 

Truly,  this  is  a  wonderful  saying.  In  just  a  single  sentence  we 
learn  the  character  of  the  special  work  in  which  God  is  engaged,  and  are 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAW  SON  87 

justified  in  believing  that'  he  could  not  be  engaged  in  a  greater  work,  and 
possibly  there  is  no  greater  work.  One  reason  is  that  man,  who  is  the 
child  of  God,  has  within  him  the  attributes  of  Deity,  and  he  may  become 
in  time  like  unto  God,  his  jFather,  in  this  work  of  salvation.  The 
accomplishment  of  such  an  undertaking  by  our  Heavenly  Father  involves 
the  important  work  of  salvation.  You  will  remember  the  saying  of 
Paul  the  Apostle,  that  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation  unto  all  who  will  receive  and  obey  it. 

REVELATION  EXPLAINS 

The  word  of  the  Lord  given  to  Joseph  Smith  by  revelation  June, 
1829,  as  follows,  is  pertinent  to  this  important  matter : 

"If  thou  wilt  do  good,  yea,  and  hold  out  faithful  to  the  end,  thou  shalt  be 
saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God,  which  is  the  greatest  of  all  the  gifts  of  God;  for 
there  is  no  greater  gift  than  the  gift  of  salvation."   (Doc.  and  Gov.  6:13). 

Also  the  word  of  the  Lord  given  to  Joseph  Smith  by  revelation  in 
June,  1829,  for  the  benefit  of  John  Whitmer,  indirectly  emphasizes 
the  value  of  human  souls  and  calls  attention  to  the  importance  of  seeking 
their  salvation.     The  wording  of  said  revelation  in  part  is  as  follows : 

"Hearken,  my  servant  John,  and  listen  to  the  words  of  Jesus  Christ,  your 
Lord  and  your  Redeemer. 

"For  behold,  I  speak  unto  you  with  sharpness  and  with  power,  for  mine  arm 
is  over  all  the  earth. 

"And  I  will  tell  you  that  which  no  man  knoweth  save  me  and  thee  alone — ■ 

"For  many  times  you  have  desired  of  me  to  know  that  which  would  be  of 
the  most  worth  unto  you.  i 

"Behold,  blessed  are  you  for  this  thing,  and  for  speaking  my  words  which 
I  have  given  'you  according  to  my  commandments. 

"And  now,  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  the  thing  which  will  be  of  the  most 
worth  unto  you  iwill  (be  to  declare  repentance  unto  this  people,  that  you  may 
bring  souls  unto  me,  that  you  may  rest  with  them  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father." 
(Doc.  and  Cov.,  Section  15). 

MORE    LIGHT    GIVEN 

In  a  further  revelation  from  the  Lord  given  to  Joseph  Smith,  the 
Prophet,  Oliver  Cowdery  and  David  Whitmer,  in  the  same  month,  viz., 
June,  1829,  greater  light  is  thrown  upon  this  interesting  and  most 
vital  subject.     Listen  to  these  solemn,  impressive  words: 

"Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight  of  God ; 

"For,  behold,  the  Lord  your  Redeemer  suffered  death  in  the  flesh ;  wherefore 
he  suffered  the  pain  of  all  men,  that  all  men  might  repent  and  come  unto  him. 

"And  he  hath  risen  again  from  the  dead,  that  he  might  bring  all  men  unto 
him,  on  conditions  of  repentance. 

"And  how  great  is  his  joy  in  the  soul  that  repenteth ! 

"Wherefore,  you  are  called  to  cry  repentance  unto  this  people. 

"And  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your  days  in  crying  repentance 
unto  this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul  unto  me,  how  great  shall  be  your 
joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  .my  Father! 

"And  now,  if  your  joy  will  be  great  with  one  soul  that  you  have  brought 
unto  me  into  the  kingdom  of  my  Father,  how  great  will  be  your  joy  if  you 
should  bring  many  souls  unto  me ! 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

"Behold,  you  have  my  gospel  before  you,  and  my  rock,  and  my  salvation. 

"Ask  the  Father  in  my  name,  in  faith  believing  that  you  shall  receive, 
and  you  shall  have  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  manifesteth  all  things  which  are 
expedient  unto  the  children  of  men. 

"And  if  you  have  not  faith,  hope,  and  charity,  you  can  do  nothing."  (Doc. 
and  Cov.,  Section  18:10-19). 

DUTY  TO  PROCLAIM   GOSPEL 

Permit  me  to  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  prophets  of 
old,  jand  Jesus  and  his  disciples  during  their  ministry,  were  constantly 
engaged  in  preaching  to  the  world,  thus  seeking  the  salvation  of  the 
people.  They  had  received  a  dispensation  from  God  and  seemed  to 
feel  the  weight  of  it.  They  had  little  of  worldly  goods  but  were  rich 
in  the  knowledge  of  God  and  preached  the  Gospel  in  power. 

So  it  is  in  this  age  of  the  world.  The  Latter-day  Saints  received 
a  dispensation  of  the  Gospel  from  the  Lord — even  the  dispensation  of 
the  fulness  of  times.  Divine  authority  was  sent  down  from  heaven 
and  sealed  upon  the  head  of  Joseph  Smith,  by  which  he  organized  the 
Church  of  Christ'  among  men. 

Having  received  from  on  high,  without  money  and  without  price, 
the  Gospel  with  its  saving  power,  Joseph  Smith  and  his  people  were 
in  duty  bound  to  give  the  Gospel  to  the  world  freely  without  money 
and  without  price,  that  all  might  have  equal  opportunity  of  securing 
the  blessing  of  salvation,  and  that  it  might  be  said  of  God  that  he  is 
no  respecter  of  persons  and  that  the  righteous  in  every  nation  are 
acceptable  unt'o  him. 

RESPONSIBILITIES    EXPLAINED 

The  nature  of  the  responsibility  that  goes  with  a  Gospel  dispensa- 
tion is  set  forth  forcibly  in  a  revelation  given  to  Joseph  Smith  the 
Prophet,  in  September,  1832,  a  portion  of  which  reads  as  follows : 

"Behold,  I  send  you  out  to  reprove  the  world  of  all  their  unrighteous  deeds, 
and  to  teach  them  of  a  judgment  which  is  to  come. 

"And  whoso  receiveth  you,  there  I  will  be  also,  for  I  will  go  before  your  face. 
T  will  be  on  your  right  hand  and  on  your  .left,  and  my  Spirit  shall  be  in  your 
hearts,  and  mine  angels  round  about  you,  to  bear  you  up. 

"Whoso  receiveth  you  receiveth  me ;  and  the  same  will  feed  you,  and 
clothe  you,  and  give  you  money. 

"And  he  who  feeds  you,  or  clothes  you,  or  gives  you  money,  shall  in  nowise 
lose  his  reward. 

"And  .he  that  doeth  not  these  things  is  not  my  disciple;  by  this  you  may 
know  my  disciples. 

"He  that  receiveth  you  not,  go  away  from  him  alone  by  yourselves,  and 
cleanse  your  feet  even  with  water,  pure  water,  whether  in  heat  or  in  cold,  and 
bear  testimony  of  it  unto  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven,  and  return  not  again 
unto  that  man. 

"And  in  whatsoever  village  or  city  iye  enter,   do  likewise. 

"Nevertheless,  search  diligently  and  spare  not ;  and  wo  unto  that  house, 
or  that  village  or  city  that  rejecteth  you,  or  your  words,  or  your  testimony  con- 
cerning me.  | 

"Wo,  I  say  again,  unto  that  house,  or  that  village  or  city  that  rejecteth 
you,  or  your  [words,  or  your  testimony  of  me ; 

"For  I,  the  Almighty,  have  laid  my  hands  upon  the  nations,  to  scourge  them 
for  their  wickedness. 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAW  SON  89 

"And  plagues  shall  go  forth,  and  they  shall  not  be  taken  from  the  earth  until 
I  have  completed  my  work,  which  shall  be  cut  short  in  righteousness — 

"Until  all  shall  know  me,  who  remain,  even  from  the  least  unto  the  greatest, 
and  shall  be  filled  with  the  knowledge  of  the  Lord,  and  shall  see  eye  to  eye,  and 
shall  lift  up  their  voice,  and  with  the  voice  together  sing  this  new  song — " 

QUOTES    NEW    SONG 

I  declare  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  new  song  which  I 
will  read  is  one  of  the  greatest  songs  that  was  ever  written,  and  I  have 
no  doubt  that  it  is  a  greater  song  than  anything  that  ever  can  be  written, 
because  it  sets  forth  the  works  of  Almighty  God  and  the  consummation 
of  all  things.    Let  me  read  these  words : 

"The  Lord  hath  brought  again  Zion ; 
The  Lord  hath  redeemed  his  people,  Israel, 
According  to   the   election  of  grace, 
Which  was  brought  to  pass  by  the  faith 
And  covenant  of  their   fathers. 

"The  Lord  hath  redeemed  his  people ; 

And  Satan  is  bound  and  time  is  no  longer. 

The   Lord  hath  gathered   all  things  in   one. 

The   Lord   hath  brought  down   Zion   from   above. 

The  Lord  hath  brought  up  Zion  from  beneath. 

"The  earth  hath  travailed  and  brought  forth  her  strength ; 

And  truth  is  established  in  her  bowels ; 

And  the  heavens  have  smiled  upon  her ; 

And  she  is  clothed  with  the  glory  of  her  God ; 

For  he  stands  in  the  midst  of  his  people. 

"Glory,  and  honor,  and  power,  and  might, 

Be  ascribed  to  our  God ;  for  he  is  full  of  mercy, 

Justice,  grace  and  truth,  and  peace, 

Forever  and  ever.    Amen." 

BEARS    TESTIMONY 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  when  all  this  is  accomplished  one  might 
well  exclaim :  "God  moves  in  a  mysterious  way  his  wonders  to  perform !" 

I  testify  in  all  solemnity  that  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged 
is  the  work  of  God,  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
his  prophet,  and  that  Joseph's  successors  in  office  were  and  are  prophets, 
even  men  holding  the  keys  to  the  kingdom  of  God  upon  the  earth ;  and  I 
invoke  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  upon  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

The  Choir  and  Congregation  sang,  "America." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

"And  there  stood  one  among  them  that  was  like  unto  God,  and  he  said  unto 
those  who  were  with  him :  We  will  go  down,  for  there  is  space  there,  and  we  will 
take  of  these  materials,  and  we  will  make  an  earth  whereon  these  may  dwell ; 

"And  we  will  prove  them  herewith,  to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things  whatso- 
ever the  Lord  their  God  shall  command  them; 

"And  they  who  keep  their  first  estate  shall  be  added  upon;  and  they  who 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

keep  not  their  first  estate  shall  not  have  glory  in  the  same  kingdom  with  those 
who  keep  their  first  estate ;  and  they  who  keep  their  second  estate  shall  have  glory 
added  upon  their  heads  forever  and  ever." 

AS  A  REWARD  OF  FAITHFULNESS 

These  words  which  I  have  read  present  to  us  an  epitome  of  exist- 
ence. They  are  the  words  of  Jesus  Christ,  uttered  in  the  pre-mortal 
state.  From  them  we  discover  that  we  are  here  in  this  world  because  of 
obedience  to  former  commandments  and  laws.  We  are  here  in  this 
world,  in  this  mortal  existence,  passing  through  all  of  its  vicissitudes 
because  of  former  faithfulness  that  has  entitled  us  to  receive  these  taber- 
nacles of  flesh.  One-third  of  the  hosts  of  heaven,  through  rebellion, 
were  denied  this  great  and  glorious  blessing.  But  we  are  here  on  pro- 
bation. This  is  called  a  probationary  state.  We  are  here  to  be  tried, 
to  be  proved,  to  be  found  worthy  of  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  God, 
to  go  back  into  his  presence,  to  become  his  sons  and  his  daughters, 
entitled  to  a  fulness,  or  to  receive  other  rewards,  according  to  works  of 
lesser  degree  of  importance. 

ALL  THINGS  SPIRITUAL  WITH   THE   LORD 

I  desire  to  spend  the  portion  of  time  allotted  to  me  in  speaking  of 
temporal  things  and  spiritual  things,  if  I  may  so  designate  them.  The 
Lord  has  so  designated  matters  that  we  may  understand  them.  But  to 
him  there  are  no  such  things  as  temporal  things.    These  are  his  words : 

"Speaking  unto  you  that  you  may  naturally  understand;  but  unto  myself  my 
works  have  no  end,  neither  beginning;  but  it  is  given  unto  you  that  ye  may 
understand,  because  ye  have  asked  it  of  me  and  are  agreed. 

"Wherefore,  verily  I  say  unto  you  that  all  things  unto  me  are  spiritual,  and 
not  at  any  time  have  I  given  unto  you  a  law  which  was  temporal ;  neither  any 
man,  nor  the  children  of  men;  neither  Adam,  your  father,  whom  I  created. 

"Behold,  I  gave  unto  him  that  he  should  be  an  agent  unto  himself ;  and  1 
gave  unto  him  commandment,  but  no  temporal  commandment  gave  I  unto  him, 
for  my  commandments  are  spiritual ;  they  are  not  natural  nor  temporal,  neither 
carnal  nor  sensual." 

Nevertheless,  that  we  may  understand,  the  Lord  uses  these  terms 
and  speaks  of  temporal  things.  We,  naturally,  being  in  this  mortal 
state,  are  surrounded  by  change,  and  all  things  are  subject  to  change; 
and  seeing  the  end  but  not  the  beginning,  we  naturally  conclude  that 
there  are  things  temporal.  All  things  in  this  life  are  mortal,  and  yet  in 
the  eyes  of  the  Lord  there  is  nothing  but  eternity  and  all  things  are 
eternal. 

POWER   TO    CHOOSE   FOR   HIMSELF 

In  this  world,  as  you  have  discovered  in  the  words  which  I  have 
read,  the  Lord  has  given  unto  man  the  power  to  become  an  agent  unto 
himself.  We  are  not  coerced,  we  are  not  forced,  there  is  no  compulsion 
in  the  Church.  Every  man  has  that  freedom  granted  unto  him  by  virtue 
of  the  power  given  him  by  our  Father  in  heaven  to  choose  for  himself 
what  he  will  do  and  be. 

One  of  the  ancient  prophets  upon  this  continent  has  summed  this 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  91 

matter  up  very  beautifully,  and  I  desire  to  present  to  you  his  words. 
These  are  the  words  of  Alma: 

"For  I  know  that  he  [God]  granteth  unto  men  according  to  their  desire, 
whether  it  be  unto  death  or  unto  life;  yea,  I  know  that  he  allotteth  unto  men 
according  to  their  wills,  whether  they  be  unto  salvation  or  unto  destruction. 

"Yea,  and  I  know  that  good  and  evil  have  come  before  all  men ;  he  that 
knoweth  not  good  from  evil  is  blameless ;  but  he  that  knoweth  good  and  evil,  to 
him  it  is  given  according  to  his  desires,  whether  he  desireth  good  or  evil,  life 
or  death,  joy  or  remorse  of  conscience." 

An  earlier  prophet,  in  fact  the  founder  of  this  race  upon  this  con- 
tinent, has  also  given  us  this  information,  not  new  by  any  means,  as  it 
comes  from  him,  as  it  is  found  in  all  the  revelations  of  God,  but  he  says : 

"Wherefore,  the  Lord  God  gave  unto  man  that  he  should  act  for  himself. 
Wherefore,  man  could  not  act  for  himself  save  it  should  be  that  he  was  enticed 
by  the  one  or  the  other." 

That  is,  by  the  power  of  righteousness  or  the  power  of  evil.  From 
this  we  learn  that  opposition  is  necessary.  We  must  be  enticed.  We 
are  subject  to  temptation.  We  are  subject  to  all  the  ills  of  the  flesh  as 
well  as  to  the  guidance  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  And  then  as  agents  we  have 
the  right,  the  great  God-given  right,  to  choose  for  ourselves,  and  we 
may  choose  righteousness  and  eternal  life  or  we  may  choose  death  by 
disregarding  the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 

A -TEMPORAL  LAW 

I  said  that  I  was  going  to  speak  of  some  things  temporal.  I  must 
hurry  if  I  do  so.  In  the  beginning  of  this  Conference,  President  Grant 
presented  figures  in  relation  to  certain  sums  of  money  that  had  been  ex- 
pended for  the  benefit  of  this  people,  in  our  education,  in  our  temple 
work,  in  the  building  of  meeting  houses,  in  the  care  of  the  poor  and 
many  other  ways  in  which  the  funds  of  the  Church  are  spent.  I  want  to 
call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  money  for  these  purposes  cannot  be 
spent  unless  it  is  received,  and  the  Lord  has  given  us  a  law  by  which 
these  revenues  may  be  obtained ;  this  is  called  the  law  of  tithing.  Bishop 
Sylvester  Q.  Cannon  has  called  your  attention  to  this  law  and  the  neces- 
sity for  it.  It  is  a  very  important  one.  It  seems  to  me  that  a  man  hold- 
ing membership  in  this  Church  is  certainly  disloyal,  he  certainly  does 
not  comprehend  the  nature  of  this  work  or  his  duty,  if  he  fails  to  pay 
his  tithing. 

A  PROMISE  AND  WARNING 

I  want  to  present  to  you  a  few  things  coming  from  a  former  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church,  President  Lorenzo  Snow,  uttered  more  than  thirty 
years  ago,  but  just  as  true  and  binding  upon  the  people  today  as  when 
his  words  were  uttered.    Said  he : 

"Teach  the  children  to  pay  tithing,  so  that  it  may  be  perpetually  observed.  If 
we  observe  this  law,  no  matter  what  our  enemies  may  do  the  Lord  will  preserve 
us." 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

What  a  wonderful  promise !  And  it  appears  to  me  that  little  do  we 
appreciate  it !    Then  again  he  says : 

"Because  we  are  his  sons  and  daughters  he  loves  us  and  he  has  forgiven  us 
our  f  orgetf  ulness  to  this  holy  law  in  the  past,  but  he  will  not  forgive  you  and  me 
any  longer.  I  say  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord.  He  will  not  forgive  this  people 
any  longer  if  we  continue  in  this  dilatory  way  of  paying  tithing.  We  will  be 
scattered  just  as  the  people  of  Jackson  County  were.  It  is  true,  just  as  God  is 
true." 

I  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  this  comes  from  the  one  who 
had  the  right  to  speak  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  and  give  commandments. 
He  goes  on  further  to  say : 

"Those  who  will  not  observe  this  law  are  not  entitled  to  the  blessings." 

I  shall  not  take  time,  much  as  I  would  delight  in  doing  so,  to  read 
farther,  because  in  this  expression  which  I  have  already  presented  there 
is  food  enough  for  thought  to  keep  us  busy  in  our  reflections  regarding 
our  duty  in  this  matter  for  many  days  to  come. 

OBSERVANCE  OF  THE  SABBATH 

One  or  two  other  items.  Our  attention  has  been  called  to  the  fact 
during  this  Conference  that  we  are  living  in  perilous  times.  There  is 
sin,  there  is  distress  everywhere  and  disregard  of  the  commandments 
of  the  Lord.  He  has  given  us  another  commandment,  and  that  is  that  we 
regard  the  Sabbath  day  and  keep  it  holy.  Who  does  it  ?  Do  the  people 
of  this  nation?  Do  the  people  of  other  nations?  I  have  been  in  some 
parts  of  this  land  where  on  the  Sabbath  day  people  worshipped,  but 
here  among  us  we  find  Babylon  in  all  its  glory,  all  its  wickedness ;  and 
we  are  face  to  face  with  temptation,  with  sin,  with  enticement  of  various 
natures  to  lead  us  from  the  path  of  truth  and  from  the  worshipping  of 
the  true  and  the  living  God. 

The  Lord  has  pointed  out  in  the  revelations  what  we  should  do  on 
the  Sabbath  day  to  keep  this  day  holy.  We  should  not  go  to  picture 
shows,  nor  go  to  places  of  amusement,  nor  spend  our  time  foolishly; 
but  in  thought  and  in  reflection  and  in  study,  in  consideration  of  the 
things  of  the  kingdom  of  God.  What  more  can  be  said  ?  I  leave  these 
thoughts  with  you,  fragmentary  they  are. 

May  the  Lord  bless  and  guide  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  keep  them 
in  the  path  of  righteousness,  in  the  path  of  humility,  in  the  path  of 
truth.  We  must  uphold  the  standards  of  Zion.  May  we  do  it,  I  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

The  Twelve  Apostles,  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  the  mis- 
sion presidents,  who  have  addressed  you  in  this  Conference,  as  already 
stated,  met  together  during  last  Wednesday,  to  hear  reports  and  con- 
sider matters  pertaining  to  the  missions  of  the  Church.  I  had  the  pleas- 
ure of  attending  that  meeting. 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS  93 

I  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  this  was  the  gathering  of  special 
witnesses  for  the  Lord.  That  is  particularly  true  of  the  quorum  of  the 
Twelve,  who  are  designated  as  the  "special  witnesses  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ ;"  and  also  the  Seventy,  the  Council  of  Seventy,  and  as  a  matter 
of  fact  of  all  the  Seventies  of  the  Church.  They  were  not  all  present, 
but  those  who  were  present  were  among  "these  special  witnesses  of 
Jesus  Christ."  And  also  these  mission  presidents,  by  reason  of  their 
appointment,  are  witnesses  of  the  Lord,  and  preside  over  the  work  of 
proclaiming  the  Gospel  in  their  respective  fields  of  labor. 

During  that  meeting,  I  think  more  than  at  any  other  time,  I  was 
impressed  with  the  dignity,  with  the  importance  and  the  glory  of  those 
who  are  witnesses  for  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  iWhat  do  we  mean  by 
that  general  term,  "Witnesses  for  Jesus  Christ?"  I  think  sometimes 
we  leave  it  in  that  generalized  statement,  and  fail  to  appreciate 
just  what  is  meant  by  it.  I  want  to  express  some  thoughts  in  relation 
to  that. 

What  is  it  to  be  a  "witness  for  Jesus  ?"  One  of  the  best  examples 
that  I  can  recall  just  now  is  given  in  the  experience  of  St.  Peter.  When 
on  the  coast  of  Caesarea,  on  one  occasion,  the  Christ  seemed  to  be  a  little 
anxious  to  know  what  men  thought  of  him — whom  men  thought  him 
to  be.  So  he  inquired  of  those  disciples  that  were  around  him.  Some 
thought  he  was  John  the  Baptist,  raised  from  the  dead.  Others,  one 
of  the  old  prophets  who  had  reappeared.  They  got  about  that  far  when 
the  Christ,  with  some  earnestness,  put  this  question:  "But  whom  say 
ye  that  I  am  ?"  Then  St.  Peter  spoke  up,  as  perhaps  was  his  place,  by 
reason  of  his  age  and  his  position  in  the  quorum  as  the  chief  of  the 
apostlesi — he  said :  "Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  son  of  the  living  God." 
That  was  his  testimony.    And  the  Christ  said  unto  him: 

"Blessed  art  thou,  Simon  Barjona,  for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed  it 
unto  thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven.  *  *  * 

"  *  *  *  And  upon  this  rock  I  will  build  my  church ;  and  the  gates  of  hell 
shall  not  prevail  against  it." 

I  do  not  intend  to  go  into  a  discussion  of  that  tremendous  state- 
ment. I  merely  call  attention  to  what  it  is  to  be  a  witness  for  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  First  and  foremost  must  be  the  great  truth,  and  it  must 
become  the  testimony  of  .the  witness :  "Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of 
the  living  God."  That  is  one  item  at  least  of  our  lesson  of  being  wit- 
nesses. It  is  to  testify  of  the  sonship  of  the  Christ  to  God,  the  eternal 
Father. 

Also  to  be  a  witness  of  him  is  to  testify  that  he  is  the  revelation  of 
God  to  man,  for  so  he  is.  If  men  would  hold  before  them  a  vision  of 
God  the  eternal  Father  they  need  only  refer  to  the  glorious  resurrected 
Christ,  as  he  stood  before  the  disciples  in  Galilee,  where  he  met  them 
by  appointment,  after  his  resurrection ;  and  from  his  glorious  condition 
of  a  resurrected,  eternal  personage,  he  said : 

"All  power  is  given  unto  me  in  heaven  and  in  earth. 

"Go  ye  therefore,  and  teach  all  nations,  baptizing  them  in  the  name  of  the 
Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost." 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

And  so  we  are  to  speak  iof  him,  as  witnesses  for  him,  that  he  is  the 
Son  of  God,  and  the  revelation  of  God  to  men ;  also  that  he  is  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world,  through  the  resurrection  from  the  dead.  Redeemer 
of  the  world  because  it  is  a  redemption  that  will  come  unto  all  people, 
saint  and  sinner ;  for  "as  in  Adam  all  die,  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be  made 
alive;"  and  the  being  "made  alive"  is  as  broad  as  the  death  through 
Adam.  So  men  are  assured  of  this  resurrection,  because  it  was  im- 
peratively necessary  to  pass  through  the  portals  of  death  in  order  to 
reach  the  stage,  through  resurrection,  where  God  carries  out  his  great 
purpose  of  bringing  to  pass  the  "immortality  and  the  eternal  life  ot 
man;"  meaning  the  race. 

So  Jesus  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world  from  death.  Of  that  we 
are  assured.  But  also  he  is  the  Savior  of  men,  the  Savior  of  individual 
men,  by  bringing  repentance  of  sin  within  their  power,  and  salvation 
from  the  consequences  of  sin,  through  forgiveness,  in  the  symbols  of 
his  death  and  resurrection  in  baptism;  also  to  bring  individual  men 
into  union  with  God,  through  the  Holy  Ghost,  so  that  the  lives  of  men 
may  be  linked  up  to  the  source  of  light,  intelligence,  power,  glory,  pro- 
gression— united  to  God.  So  the  Christ  is  the  "Savior  of  men,"  in  that 
he  has  made  salvation  possible  unto  them,  every  one  who  will  believe, 
and  repent  of  his  sins,  and  thus  come  unto  God. 

To  bear  witness  of  these  truths  concerning  the  Christ  is  to  be  the 
witness  of  Christ  in  relation  to  all  these  things.  What  a  privilege  thus 
to  be  witnesses  for  God !  And  how  fundamentally  important  ■  is  all 
this  to  the  children  of  men,  that  they  should  know  these  things ;  that 
they  should  come  to  a  knowledge  of  the  way  of  salvation !  I  glory  in 
the  greatness,  in  the  immensity  of  such  a  mission  as  this. 

But  there  is  still  a  closer  and  a  dearer  thing  coming  out  of  all  this, 
and  that  is  the  association  it  brings  to  us  with  the  Christ  himself  as  a 
witness;  for  St.  John,  in  his  revelation,  declares  jthat  "Jesus  Christ  is 
the  faithful  witness,"  the  first  witness,  the  greatest  witness  of  all.  It 
is  our  privilege  to  stand  in  the  throng  of  which  he  is  the  leader,  and 
what  could  be  more  honorable,  greater  or  more  desirable  than  to  be  one 
with  Jesus  Christ,  as  a  witness  for  God  ?  > 

And  then  the  definiteness  of  the  Christ's  mission  as  a  witness.  You 
perhaps  will  recall,  at  these  suggestions,  the  language  of  the  Savior 
when  teaching  Nicodemus  some  of  the  supposed  mysteries  of  the  Gos- 
pel.   At  the  conclusion  of  his  interview  with  him  he  said : 

"We  speak  that  we  do  know,  and  testify  that  we  have  seen;  and  ye 
receive  not  our  witness." 

What  an  upbraiding,  and  what  definiteness  of  God's  chief  and  lead- 
ing witness ! 

He  has  presented  the  same  thought  to  us  also  in  his  conversation 
with  Pilate,  who  was  seeking  every  possible  opportunity  to  deliver  him 
from  the  unjust  clamor  of  the  Jewish  multitude,  who  charged  that  he 
had  committed  blasphemy  by  proclaiming  that  he  was  the  Son  of  God. 
And  then,  in  order  to  influence  Pilate  more  greatly,  they  charged  the 
Christ  with  claiming  to  be  a  king :  "He  who  .claims  to  be  a  king  is  not 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS  95 

Caesar's  friend,"  said  they  ;  and  this  touched  Pilate  more  nearly,  because 
he  must  maintain  the  attitude  of  patriotism  toward  (Caesar.  Hence  this 
declaration  of  the  Jews  sent  Pilate  into  the  inner  court  to  inquire  care- 
fully of  Jesus  if  he  were  a  king.  "Well,"  Jesus  said,  "my  kingdom  is 
not  of  this  world.  If  it  were,  my  disciples  would  fight,  that  I  might 
not  be  delivered  to  the  Jews.  But  ,my  kingdom  is  not  of  this  world." 
"Thou  are  a  king,  (then?"  said  Pilate,  and  Jesus,  as  if  despairing  of 
making  him  understand,  said :  "Thou  sayest  I  am  a  king,"  as  if  he 
would  say,  "Let  it  go  at  that."  Then  he  made  a  declaration  that  is 
most  thrilling: 

"To  this  end  was  I  born,  and  for  this  cause  came  I  into  the  world,  that  I 
should  bear  witness  unto  the  truth." 

That  was  greater  than  being  a  king,  to  be  a  witness  of  the  truth. 
And  he  added  now,  not — "and  ye  receive  not  pur  witness" — as  in  the 
case  of  Nicodemus,  but  said,  "Every  one  that  is  of  the  fruth,  heareth 
my  voice" — they  who  are  of  that  spirit  of  truth  would  hear  his  words, 
and  so  will  they  by  that  same  power  of  self-evidence,  that  goes  with  the 
truth,  hear  all  his  witnesses  who  proclaim  the  truth.  And  "they  who 
are  of  the  truth"  will  be  attracted  to  it,  and  ultimately  find  their  places 
in  the  great  body  of  the  Church  of  Christ. 

Well,  all  this,  to  my  mind,  stamps  with  importance  and  glory  those 
who  are  called  to  be  witnesses  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  they  share 
with  him  the  high  honor  of  bearing  testimony  to  the  truth,  by  the  power 
of  truth. 

The  Savior,  in  the  dispensation  when  he  established  his  atonement 
for  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  brought  to  pass  the  beginning  of  the 
resurrection  from  the  dead,  chose  special  witnesses.  These  were  the 
Twelve  apostles.  And  after  he  had  chosen  these  apostles  and  sent  them 
into  the  world,  then  he  "called  other  seventy,"  and  giving  a  like  com- 
mission to  them,  sent  them  into  the  world  to  be  his  witnesses.  To  both 
these  classes  he  made  these  declarations,  in  substance : 

"He  that  receiveth  you  receiveth  me,  and  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth  him 
that  sent  me." 

It  is  a  true  principle;  and  conversely:  those  who  reject  you  reject 
Vne,  and  those  who  reject  me  reject  my  Father  also. 

To  these  men  he  gave  power  that  they  should  heal  the  sick,  cleanse 
the  lepers,  raise  the  dead  even,  heal  the  lame,  open  the  eyes  of  the  blind, 
and  pronounced  woe  upon  those  who  rejected  these,  his  witnesses.  They 
went  forth  as  witnesses  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  When  the  Seventy 
returned  they  were  very  joyous  about  what  their  experiences  had 
brought  to  them.  "Why,"  said  they  unto  the  Lord,  "even  the  devils 
are  subject  unto  us  through  thy  name ;"  and  (Jesus  raised  up  his  eyes  and 
glorified  God  in  that  hour,  that  he  had  revealed  his  great  truth  to  the  sim- 
ple, and  to  the  humble  among  men.  It  hadn't  fallen  upon  the  great, 
who  stood  in  the  establishments  of  learning  in  those  days,  but  the  rev- 
elation had  come  to  those  who,  comparatively,  might  be  thought  of  as 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

"babes  and  sucklings"  in  knowledge.  God  had  exalted  them  through 
the  spirit  of  knowledge  which  comes  of  faith,  rather  than  from  the 
learning  of  men. 

He  said  to  these  men,  whom  he  sent  into  the  world,  that  "He  that 
repenteth  and  is  baptized  shall  be  saved ;  and  those  who  do  not  repent, 
and  consequently  will  not  be  baptized,  they  shall  be  damned."  Now,  I 
have  no  disposition  to  soften  that  word.  Let  it  stand,  in  all  its  ruggedness. 
You  may  put  all  the  "cons"  before  it  you  please,  but  there  it  is,  and 
whatever  "damnation"  may  consist  of,  it  will  fall  upon  those  who  do 
not  hearken  to  the  message  that  God  sends  to  them,  and  I  leave  those 
upon  whom  it  falls  to  render  this  definition  as  they  please.  But  what- 
ever it  is,  that  is  it ;  it  is  "damnation ;"  so  let  it  stand ! 

'Well,  we  happen  to  be  associated  with  a  new  dispensation  of  this 
Gospel.  Men  in  early  Christian  centuries  at  least,  fulfilled  the  great 
prophecy  of  Isaiah — speaking  of  the  last  days — when  he  said  that  men 
in  those  days  would  "transgress  the  law,  change  the  ordinances,  break 
the  everlasting  covenant," — and  the  blood  of  Christ  is  spoken  of  as 
"the  blood  of  the  everlasting  covenant."  It  is  that  covenant  with  Christ, 
who  brings  salvation  through  his  Gospel  to  the  world  that  he  sealed 
with  his  blood,  and  that  is  the  "everlasting  covenant."  God's  prophet, 
speaking  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  seven  hundred  years 
before  the  coming  of  the  Christ,  declared  that  men  would  break  that 
covenant,  and  if  broken,  the  only  possible  way  to  ever  re-establish  it  is  to 
renew  it  through  a  new  dispensation  of  it. 

We  happen  to  be  the  witnesses  and  the  heralds  to  proclaim  that  this 
dispensation  of  the  Gospel  has  been  renewed  in  our  days,  to  bring  to  pass 
the  final  fulfilment  of  all  the  dispensations  from  Adam  to  now,  and 
weld  them  into  one,  that  should  consummate  the  work  of  God  in  rela- 
tion to  the  salvation  of  men  and  the  redemption  of  the  world. 

How  does  this  matter  of  being  witnesses  appear  in  this  new  dis- 
pensation? It  began  as  of  old.  Men  had  departed  from  God,  changed 
his  ordinances,  broken  the  covenant,  and  the  only  way  to  go  about  re- 
establishing all  this  is  to  give  the  new  dispensation  and  raise  up  new 
witnesses  to  its  truth.  The  Lord  took  one  in  every  way  prepared  to  be 
chosen  and  educated  by  him,  and  made  a  witness  for  himself  and  for 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  To  Joseph  Smith,  as  you  all  know,  both  Father 
and  Son  appeared  in  the  commencement  of  his  ministry.  With  them 
he  conversed ;  he  saw — he  heard  them,  and  had  most  definite  knowl- 
edge concerning  God — the  Father  and  the  Son — and  received  at  that 
time  the  promise  that  he  would  be  an  instrument,  in  the  hands  of  God, 
in  accomplishing  some  of  his  great  and  mighty  purposes  in  these  last 
days. 

God  had  established  a  witness  among  men,  one  who  could  speak 
with  positiveness ;  who  through  the  senses  of  sight  and  hearing,  to- 
gether with  the  responsive  pulsation  of  soul,  could  say :  "I  know  God 
lives,  for  he  spoke  unto  me  and  I  beheld  him.  His  Son  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,"  and  he  could  say  it  with  all  the  positiveness  that  ever  St.  Peter 
couldf— "Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God."  And  it  can 
be  applied  to  Joseph  Smith:  "Blessed  art  thou,  Joseph,  for  flesh  and 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS  97 

blood  hath  not  revealed  that  unto  thee,  but  my  Father  who  is  in  heaven. 
.  .  .  And  on  this  rock  will  I  build  my  church."  And  now,  in  this  dis- 
pensation of  the  fulness  of  times,  truly  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail 
against  the  Church  of  the  Christ,  not  only  in  this  time  but  in  all  times. 
Men  forgot  that  the  Church  of  God  began  in  the  days  of  Adam,  and  the 
method,  and  the  means  by  which  all  men  could  become  the  sons  of  God 
was  revealed  to  him ;  and  those  who  reacted  in  faith  to  the  message  of 
God,  through  all  time,  constitute  the  redeemed  in  the  Church  of  the  liv- 
ing God  in  heaven,  and  there  shall  nothing  prevail  against  that  church, 
from  first  to  last. 

We  shall  see  the  consummation,  that  is,  this  dispensation  of  ours 
shall  see  the  consummation  of  God's  work,  against  which  the  gates  of 
hell  have  not  prevailed  and  cannot  prevail. 

Then  another  mighty  stride  forward  was  made,  when  God  revealed 
the  scriptures  of  the  American  continent,  and  brought  them  to  the 
knowledge  of  men.  He  raised  up  witnesses  to  bear  special  testimony 
to  that  great  event.  And  these  three  whom  he  favored  with  what  is 
called  a  "miraculous  testimony" — a  vision  from  heaven  in  relation  to 
these  things — he  told  them  that  they  would  be  called  upon  to  choose 
other  witnesses,  even  twelve.  So  it  came  to  pass  in  this  new  dispensation 
that  twelve  were  chosen  as  special  witnesses.  Then  groups  of  seventy 
special  witnesses  were  to  follow  them  in  the  great  work  of  preaching 
the  Gospel  in  all  the  world.  I  would  like  to  dwell  a  little  on  that,  but 
time  will  not  permit. 

I  can  only  ask  this  question:  Must  the  same  consequences  follow 
the  testimony  of  these  witnesses  in  the  new  dispensation  as  those  in  the 
time  of  the  Christ?  Yea,  verily!  Brother  Rudger  Clawson  has  read 
to  us  just  now  how  some  of  these  things  will  be.  Let  me  hastily  say :  God 
gave  unto  them  the  same  commission  he  did  to  the  ancient  witnesses.  He 
named  the  same  consequences  that  would  follow  their  proclamation  of 
the  truth:  He  that  believes  and  is  baptized  shall  be  saved.  Those  that 
believe  not,  and  are  not  baptized,  shall  be  damned.  The  same  positive- 
ness — and  I  don't  undertake  to  make  any  limitations  about  it. 

Then  he  enumerated  the  great  blessings  that  were  to  follow  their 
preaching  and  bearing  witness  of  the  truth,  for  God  said : 

"As  I  said  unto  mine  apostles,  [meaning  the  ancient  ones]  even  so  I  say  unto 
you,  for  you  are  mine  apostles,  even  God's  high  jpriests ;  ye  are  they  whom  my 
Father  hath  given  me ;  ye  are  my  friends.  Therefore,  as  I  said  unto  mine 
apostles  I  say  unto  you  again,  that  every  soul  who  believeth  on  your  words,  and 
is  baptized  by  water  for  the  remission  of  his  sins,  shall  receive  the  Holy  Ghost." 

What  man  is  authorized  to  say  that  of  a  group  of  witnesses  he  is 
sending  out  into  the  world?  It  is  in  the  first  great  promise  to  be 
fulfilled,  also  that  they  shall  have  power  to  impart  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Then  further  on: 

"And  these  isigns  shall  follow  them  that  believe — In  my  name  they  shall  do 
many  wonderful  works ;  in  my  name  they  shall  cast  out  devils ;  in  my  name  they 
shall  heal  the  sick;  in  my  name  they  shall  open  the  eyes  of  the  blind,  and  unstop 
the  ears  of  the  dtjaf ;  and  the  tongue  of  the  dumb  shall  speak.  *  *  * 


98  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

"But  a  commandment  I  give  unto  them,  that  they  shall  not  boast  themselves 
of  these  things,  neither  speak  them  before  the  world ;  for  these  things  are  given 
unto  you  for  your  profit  and  for  salvation." 

Pointing  to  these  so-called  miraculous  gifts  and  their  fulfilment, 
what  a  testimony  to  those  who  accept  the  Gospel !  Yet  they  are  not  to 
prize  those  things  above  other  great  spiritual  truths,  namely,  for  one 
thing,  receiving  the  Holy  Ghost.  That  is  more  than  equal  to  all  these 
spiritual  gifts  named. 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  they  who  believe  not  on  your  words,  and  are 
not  baptized  in  water  in  my  name,  for  the  remission  of  their  sins,  that  they  may 
receive  the  Holy  Ghost,  shall  be  damned,  and  shall  not  come  into  my  Father's 
kingdom  where  imy  Father  and  I  am." 

I  think  that  must  be  the  "damnation"  spoken  of  above.  At  least 
they  can  not  attain  unto  the  rewards  that  come  with  obedience  to  the 
Gospel. 

And  then  the  Christ  continues  on  speaking  of  these  witnesses,  that 
they  shall  labor  in  the  spirit  in  which  the  ancient  apostles — the  former 
witnesses — labored.  When  he  traveled  with  them  in  the  world,  he  neither 
suffered  them  to  take  purse  nor  scrip  with  them  in  their  mission,  but 
taught  them  to  rely  upon  the  Lord,  and  promised  they  should  not  be 
darkened  in  mind  or  limb  or  joint,  but  he  would  sustain  them  in  their 
missions.  Being  without  money  is  no  excuse  for  the  witnesses  who  are 
to  go  forth  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  in  the  New  Dispensation.  They 
are  to  preserve  the  same  spirit  of  earnest,  sacrificing  devotion  to  the 
work  as  in  ancient  times. 

The  revelation  (Doc.  and  Cov.,  sec.  84:79-91)  dealing  with  these 
things  in  the  New  Dispensation  says : 

"Behold,  I  send  you  out  to  prove  the  world,  and  the  laborer  is  worthy  of  his 
hire. 

"And  any  man  that  shall  go  and  preach  this  Gospel  of  the  kingdom,  and 
fail  not  to  continue  faithful  in  all  things,  shall  not  be  weary  in  mind,  neither 
darkened,  neither  in  body,  limb,  nor  joint;  and  a  hair  of  his  head  shall  not  fall 
to  the  ground  unnoticed.    And  they  shall  not  go  hungry,  neither  athirst. 

"Therefore,  take  ye  no  thought  for  the  morrow,  for  what  ye  shall  eat,  or 
what  ye  shall  drink,  or  wherewithal  ye  shall  be  clothed.  *  *  * 

"THEREFORE,  LET  NO  MAN  AMONG  YOU,  FOR  THIS  COM- 
MANDMENT ,IS  UNTO  ALL  THE  FAITHFUL  WHO  ARE  CALLED  OF 
GOD  IN  THE  CHURCH  UNTO  THE  MINISTRY,  FROM  THIS  HOUR 
TAKE  PURSE  OR  SCRIP,  THAT  GOETH  FORTH  TO  PROCLAIM  THIS 
GOSPEL  OF  THE  KINGDOM. 

"Behold,  I  send  you  out  to  reprove  the  world  of  all  their  unrighteous  deeds, 
and  to  teach  them  of  a  judgment  which  is  to  come. 

"And  whoso  receiveth  you,  there  I  will  be  also,  for  I  will  go  before  your 
face.  I  will  be  on  your  right  hand  and  on  your  left,  and  my  spirit  shall  be  in 
your  hearts,  and  mine  angels  round  about  you,  to  bear  you  up. 

"Whoso  receiveth  you  receiveth  me ;  and  the  same  will  feed  you,  and  clothe 
you,  and  give  you  money. 

"And  he  who  feeds  you,  or  clothes  you,  or  gives  you  money,  shall  in  nowise 
lose  his  reward. 

"And  he  that  doeth  not  these  things  is  not  my  disciple ;  by  this  you  may 
know  my  disciples." 

To  my  surprise  I  see  the  time  is  up.  I  would  like  to  dwell  upon 
these  matters  a  little  longer,  if  it  were  possible. 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS  99 

I  was  delighted  with  the  suggestions  made  by  Elder  George  F. 
Richards  here  yesterday,  in  regard  to  widening  the  mission  force  in 
various  mission  fields.  Now  that  we  are  in  the  midst  of  this  so-called 
"financial  depression,"  it  becomes  increasingly  more  difficult  for  the 
Saints  in  Zion  to  provide  the  funds  for  a  mission  for  their  sons  and 
daughters,  especially  if  asked  to  make  the  provisions  from  the  begin- 
ning of  it  to  the  end  of  it,  before  they  start.  I  want  to  make  a  suggestion 
or  express  a  thought  I  have  upon  the  subject,  and  that  is  that  these  wit- 
nesses for  God  I  think  should  learn  to  trust  more  in  the  Lord  and  his 
promises — summon  up  the  faith  of  the  Gospel  and  be  willing  to  face  the 
world  with  faith  in  God,  and  depend  upon  him  more  and  more  for  sup- 
plying their  needs,  while  preparing  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men 
for  the  coming  of  the  Lord  as  in  the  beginning  of  our  work. 

The  Lord  bless  Israel  and  sustain  the  witnesses  of  this  dispensa- 
tion as  in  former  dispensations,  increase  their  power  so  that  when  they 
go  forth  to  speak  it  will  not  occur  to  the  children  of  men  to  question 
their  truth  but  to  know,  by  the  response  of  the  spirit  in  their  hearts, 
that  these  are  witnesses  sent  of  God — in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Mr.  H.  A.  Smith  of  Arizona,  who  has  been  addressing  the  Com- 
mercial Club,  is  here  in  the  interest  of  a  tariff  on  copper.  We  wish 
him  God-speed  in  getting  it.  I  do  not  think  I  could  get  one  vote  against 
a  tariff  on  copper. 

I  wish  to  say,  incidentally,  do  not  go  wild  over  a  lot  of  books  that 
claim  the  world  is  coming  to  an  end  in  a  few  days.  The  scriptures 
tell  us  that  no  one  knoweth.  I  am  sure  that  some  of  the  people  who 
are  wasting  days,  weeks  and  months  of  study  trying  to  frighten  them- 
selves to  death  will  not  be  successful. 

The  Chpir  rendered  the  anthem  "Inflammatus,"  solo  part  by  Sister 
Laurinda  Brewerton. 

Elder  Heber  J.  Meeks,  President  of  the  Kanab  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  closing  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  promptly  at  2 
o'clock,  Sunday  afternoon,  April  10th,  the  attendance  at  this  meeting 
being  similar  to  that  at  the  morning  session,  large  crowds  of  people  who 
were  unable  to  gain  entrance  to  the  Tabernacle,  having  assembled  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  and  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds,  where  they  listened 
to  the  proceedings  as  they  were  broadcast  by  radio. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  Choir  and  Congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "The  Spirit  of  God 
like  a  fire  is  burning." 


100  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Elder  Lee  R.  Taylor,  president  of  the  Nebo  Stake,  offered  the  open- 
ing prayer. 

A  ladies'  chorus  under  the  direction  of  Prof.  Anthony  C.  Lund  sang 
a  sacred  anthem,  "The  Twenty-third  Psalm." 

ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

People  are  moved  to  action  by  a  diversity  of  motives,  and  much  de- 
pends upon  the  incentives  by  which  a  man  is  prompted.  Indeed,  mo- 
tives may  be  regarded  as  constituting  an  index  to  the  character  of  the 
individual;  and  doubtless  there  are  many  whose  motives  are  not  gen- 
erally understood  in  their  full  significance. 

SIGNIFICANCE  OF  MOTIVES 

I  call  to  mind  that  the  Master  while  in  the  flesh  warned  against  un- 
worthy motives :  When  you  give  to  charity,  he  said,  though  as  he  put  it 
"when  thou  doest  thine  alms,"  do  not  so  act  before  men  to  attract  their 
attention  and  win  praise  for  yourselves;  for  those  who  do  this  receive 
their  reward  then  and  there  and  have  nothing  more  to  expect  by  way  of 
recompense.  And  do  not  make  a  display  of  your  piety  and  your  pray- 
ers, for  there  are  those  who  pray  that  they  may  be  heard  of  men.  Well, 
they  are  heard  of  men,  they  have  their  reward  and  that  is  all  there  is 
to  it. 

And  when  you  fast,  he  continued,  do  not  go  about  with  a  haggard 
countenance,  displaying  to  men  the  fact  that  you  are  fasting  or  pretend- 
ing to;  but  fast  in  earnestness  and  sincerity  unto  the  Lord  and  pray 
unto  him  in  secret  and  do  your  alms  quietly. 

Now,  I  would  rather  a  man  do  a  good  deed  even  with  a  motive  that 
may  not  be  the  best  than  that  he  should  fail  to  do  it ;  and  far  rather  that 
he  should  do  that  good  deed  rather  than  do  evil.  Nevertheless  there  is 
an  importance  to  be  attached  to  the  incentives  that  move  us. 

CONFERENCE  ASSEMBLIES 

In  looking  over  these  assembled  thousands  in  the  several  meetings 
of  this  conference  I  have  thought  of  the  motives  that  bring  such  multi- 
tudes together,  not  only  now  but  at  all  of  our  recurring  conferences. 

The  gathering  of  people  in  conferences  of  this  Church  is  a  phe- 
nomenon, or  appears  to  be  such  to  those  who  do  not  know  us  well,  while 
to  the  members  of  the  Church  it  is  an  ordinary  and  regular  occurrence. 
I  am  inclined  to  impute  good  motives  to  men,  to  communities  and  or- 
ganizations, until  I  have  reason  to  act  otherwise.  I  have  not  lost  con- 
fidence in  this  family  of  ours,  this  human  family.  .We  are  a  pretty  good 
family  after  all,  much  as  there  is  to  be  improved  in  our  affairs ;  and  I 
ascribe  worthy  motives  to  those  who  are  assembled  here  this  afternoon. 

ACTUALITY  OF  RELIGION 

I  believe  that  the  great  majority — oh,  I  may  say  that  all  of  us— 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE  101 

have  come  together  with  good  intent.  This  is  a  day  set  apart  for  wor- 
ship, the  Sabbath,  and  we  come  with  the  spirit  of  worship  in  our  hearts. 
We  are  here  to  learn  more  of  the  duties  that  pertain  to  us  as  members 
of  the  Church.  Our  religion  is  very  real  to  us.  There  is  that  feature 
about  the  Latter-day  Saints — they  take  their  religion  to  heart.  They 
believe  what  they  say,  and  though  I  know  we  can  do  much  better  than 
we  are  doing,  I  believe  that  the  people  are  trying  to  live  according  to 
what  they  know  to  be  the  revealed  truths  of  their  religious  system. 
There  are  many  to  whom  religion  is  really  lacking  in  actuality — in 
f actuality  let  me  say — it  does  not  reach  the  heart,  therefore  it  does  not 
impel  to  right  living.  Many  are  apt  to  deal  with  religion  in  the  abstract 
and  to  shrink  when  concrete  application  is  made.  There  is  nothing  new 
in  this. 

Christ's  affirmation  of  his  divinity 

You  remember  the  story  told,  not  a  story  in  the  sense  of  a  bit  of 
fiction  but  the  recorded  account  of  the  Christ  as  he  made  his  way  from 
Jerusalem  northward,  passing  through  Samaria,  near  the  beginning  of 
his  ministry,  when  he  met  a  woman  at  Jacob's  well  and  asked  her  for 
water  to  drink.  She  was  surprised  that  a  Jew  should  solicit  any  favor 
of  a  Samaritan,  but  she  hastened  to  comply  with  the  request,  and  Jesus 
talked  with  her.  She  asked  him  questions  and  soon  became  aware  that 
he  could  read  her  thoughts,  that  he  knew  the  story  of  her  life,  and  she 
was  somewhat  disturbed.  She  raised  the  query,  perhaps  in  a  casual  way, 
as  to  whether  it  was  necessary  to  worship  in  Mount  Moriah,  as  the 
Samaritans  held,  or  in  Jerusalem,  as  the  Jews  insisted.  She  reasoned 
on  it  for  a  moment  and  then  put  it  away,  really  thrust  it  aside  or  tried 
to,  saying: 

"I  know  that  Messias  cometh,  which  is  called  Christ,  when  he  is  come,  he 
will  tell  us  all  things." 

That  may  seem  a  good  way  of  putting  things  off;  but  she  was 
brought  to  solemn  attention  when  he  spoke  the  next  few  words: 

"/  that  speak  unto  thee  am  he." 

For  that  she  was  not  prepared,  the  application,  the  present  reality. 
The  Jewish  nation  had  been  waiting  for  the  coming  of  Messiah ;  their 
rabbis  had  preached  upon  it  Sabbath  after  Sabbath,  and  their  synagogs 
had  resounded  to  the  words  of  the  prophets  telling  of  the  coming;  but 
when  they  were  told  that  he  was  there  in  their  midst  they  rose  up  and 
tried  to  kill  him,  and  eventually  did  bring  about  his  death. 

THE  REVOLT  AT  NAZARETH 

From  Samaria  our  Lord  went  on  to  Galilee,  and  there,  in  what  has 
been  called  his  home  city — though  not  the  place  of  his  birth,  yet  the 
town  of  his  youth,  Nazareth — he  went  into  the  synagog  after  he  had  be- 
come thirty  years  of  age,  the  age  at  which  a  Jew  was  entitled  to  be 
heard  if  he  had  anything  to  say,  in  the  synagog,  and  he  there  appeared 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

for  the  first  time  so  far  as  we  know  in  what  we  may  call  the  speaker's 
stand,  perhaps  by  invitation.  The  president  of  the  synagog  handed  to 
him  the  roll,  the  Book  of  Isaiah.  Jesus  opened  to  what  in  our  Bible  is 
the  sixty-first  chapter  and  read  from  it  as  recorded  by  Luke : 

"The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  upon  me,  because  he  hath  anointed  me  to  preach 
the  gospel  to  the  poor;  he  hath  sent  me  to  heal  the  brokenhearted,  to  preach 
deliverance  to  the  captives,  and  recovering  of  sight  to  the  blind,  to  set  at  liberty 
them  that  are  bruised, 

"To  preach  the  acceptable  year  of  the  Lord." 

Possibly  there  were  few  if  any  there  who  had  not  heard  that  scrip- 
ture quoted  aforetime.  It  was  a  favorite  with  speakers  and  com- 
mentators of  the  day,  and  it  aroused  some  solemn  interest  in  all  who 
listened  to  him,  but  his  words  that  followed  struck  to  the  heart  of  every- 
one : 

"This  day  is  this  scripture  fulfilled  in  your  ears." 

They  were  startled.  Some  began  to  find  fault,  and  the  tumult  cul- 
minated in  their  seizing  him  and  dragging  him  to  the  brow  of  a  nearby 
hill,  intending  to  cast  him  down  to  his  death  even  at  the  beginning  of 
his  ministry.  But  his  hour  had  not  yet  come.  It  was  the  present,  the 
individual  application,  that  had  stirred  their  anger.  And  so  with  many 
other  incidents  in  the  life  and  earthly  ministry  of  the  Lord  Jesus. 

PREDICTED  SIGNS  OF  THE  END 

As  you  read  in  the  twenty-fourth  chapter  of  Matthew  our  Lord 
declared  as  one  of  the  signs  of  the  approaching  end  of  the  dispensation 
of  which  he  was  speaking,  that  this  Gospel  of  the  Kingdom  shall  be 
preached  in  all  the  world  for  a  witness  unto  all  nations,  and  then  shall 
the  end  come.  That  scripture  has  been  preached  in  many  places,  syna- 
gogs,  tabernacles,  cathedrals.  People  passively  believe  in  it,  yes,  it  is 
scripture  and  it  goes  with  other  scripture.  But  when  the  voice  of  author- 
ity is  heard  declaring  that  this  Gospel  that  we  preach  is  the  Gospel  refer- 
red to  by  Jesus  Christ,  verily  the  Gospel  of  the  Kingdom,  that  it  is  now 
being  declared  in  all  the  world,  that  this  declaration  is  a  witness  unto 
all  nations,  people  get  angry;  they  reject  it;  they  do  not  want  the  appli- 
cation. In  theory  it  is  to  them  all  right.  As  a  matter  of  record  they 
are  willing  to  let  it  stand,  but  if  you  apply  it  to  them  they  object.  This 
is  the  attitude  of  many. 

Elijah's  coming 

So  we  could  cite  instance  after  instance.  Indulge  me  in  one  other. 
Remember  what  the  Lord  said  through  Malachi  regarding  one  particular 
characteristic  of  the  last  days,  that  before  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of 
the  Lord  Elijah  the  prophet  would  be  sent  with  a  particular  mission  to 
turn  the  hearts  of  the  living  children  unto  their  dead  progenitors,  and 
on  the  other  hand  to  turn  the  hearts  of  the  dead  ancestors,  alive  in  the 
spirit,  to  their  posterity  now  in  the  flesh.     Yes,  that  is  scripture  also, 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE  103 

and  many  have  quoted  it  and  let  it  pass.  But  when  we  raise  our  voices 
in  solemn  declaration  that  Elijah  the  ancient  prophet  has  come,  that  that 
prediction  has  been  fulfilled  as  to  its  initiation  and  is  in  rapid  course  of 
progressive  operation,  people  object.  When  we  say  that  on  the  third 
day  of  April,  1836,  Elijah  appeared  in  person,  a  resurrected  being,  in 
the  Kirtland  Temple,  and  did  confer  his  authority,  power  and  commis- 
sion, upon  the  prophet  of  this  dispensation,  people  refuse  to  receive  it 
and  they  are  loud  in  their  denunciation  of  the  claim. 

A  SPECIFIC    INSTANCE  OF   DENIAL 

I  call  to  mind  that  it  was  my  privilege  once  to  address  the  Philo- 
sophical Society  of  Denver  on  the  Philosophy  of  Mormonism.  I  quoted 
that  passage  from  Malachi,  and  dwelt  upon  it  at  some  length.  In  the 
discussion  that  followed  the  address  a  cultured  gentleman,  a  Jew,  took 
part.    He  said : 

"I  wish  I  could  believe  all  that  the  speaker  has  said  tonight,  and 
I  believe  much  of  it;  but  when  he  tells  us  that  Elijah,  the  ancient 
prophet,  has  actually  come  in  person  to  the  earth  in  this  age,  I  say  simply 
that  I  can  not  believe  it.    I  wish  I  could,  but  I  can  not." 

Well,  of  course  the  rejoinder  was  simple  when  my  turn  came  again : 

"Do  you  accept  Malachi  as  one  of  your  prophets  ?" 

"Certainly." 

"Do  you  believe  what  he  said  when  he  voiced  the  word  of  the  Lord 
that  in  the  last  days  Elijah  the  prophet  would  come?" 

"Well,  yes ;  yes  of  course." 

"Now,  we  simply  affirm  that  your  Jewish  prophet  Malachi  was  a 
true  prophet  as  is  proved  by  the  fulfilment  of  his  prediction ;  that  Elijah 
has  come ;  that  the  work  without  which  the  earth  would  be  smitten  with 
a  curse  is  now  in  progress." 

SIGNS  OF  THE  TIME 

The  calamities  of  these  days,  phenomenal  disturbances  in  nature — 
earthquakes,  volcanic  eruptions,  destructive  hurricanes — as  also  the 
struggle  of  nation  against  nation  in  actual  warfare  and  in  scheming  di- 
plomacy, the  pestilence  and  the  famine — these  and  yet  greater  disasters 
have  been  definitely  predicted.  None  can  gainsay  their  actuality,  and  all 
who  read  must  see  that  they  were  foretold. 

Yet  men  are  prone  to  deny  the  reality  of  these  dread  occurrences 
as  signs  of  the  time,  telling  of  the  imminence  of  the  Lord's  coming  to 
rule  among  men  and  to  inaugurate  the  millennium  of  a  new  order.  Con- 
ditions prevailing  in  the  world  today  demand  our  serious  attention.  The 
solemnities  of  the  eternal  word  and  plan  should  move  mankind  to  re- 
pentance, reformation,  and  soulful  worship  of  Deity,  worship  expressed 
in  a  rectification  of  individual  and  national  life. 

I  plead  for  the  reality,  the  actuality  of  religion,  in  belief  and  prac- 
tice, feeling  that  this  is  no  day  for  mere  theory  and  supposition.  This 
religion  of  ours,  this  Church  of  ours,  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  is  real, 
vital,  living,  eternal.  God  help  us  to  understand  and  live  accordingly, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  LEONIDAS  DeVON  MECHAM 

Former  acting-president  of  the  Australian  Mission 

"Now  behold,  a  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth  among  the  children 
of  men. 

"Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the  service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve  him 
with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and  strength,  that  ye  may  stand  blameless  before 
God  at  the  last  day." 

These  few  lines,  the  beginning  of  the  fourth  section  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  have  been  running  through  my  mind  from  the  very 
opening  of  the  Conference  sessions  up  until  the  present  time,  more  espe- 
cially so  during  the  address  of  Elder  Ballard.  It  seems  to  be  the  general 
theme  of  this  Conference  to  me,  and  I  have  been  wondering  if  we  are 
taking  these  things  which  are  indeed  a  luxury,  which  we  have  started  to 
class  as  necessities  of  life — taking  them  to  heart  to  such  an  extent  that 
we  are  crying  depression  when  we  are  really  enjoying  marvelous  bless- 
ings from  God.    We  are  living  in  a  truly  marvelous  age. 

Having  been  handicapped  somewhat  in  this  Conference  in  the  earlier 
sessions — as  I  recently  had  my  tonsils  removed,  in  fact  a  little  over  a 
week  ago — I  was  unable  to  participate  with  the  audience  in  singing  the 
hymns.  I  love  to  take  part  in  singing  the  Latter-day  Saint  sacred  hymns. 
They  surely  contain  Gospel  sermons  and  I  love  the  beautiful  harmony 
in  them.  As  I  stood  listening  to  those  hymns  my  faith  and  my  testimony 
were  increased  and  I  felt  well  repaid  for  having  attended  these  services. 

I  rejoice  in  having  this  opportunity  of  meeting  here  with  you  peo- 
ple in  a  General  Conference.  It  has  been  some  time  since  this  has  been 
my  privilege. 

Going  back  to  the  point  I  want  to  stress.  In  thus  being  a  listener 
and  not  a  participator  in  the  rendering  of  the  hymns  I  could  not  help 
noticing  the  confusion  caused  by  people  leaving  during  the  closing  hymn 
and  benediction,  not  mentioning  those  who  leave  before  the  last  speaker 
has  finished.  I  cannot  help  but  feel  that  this  is  not  only  improper  but 
shows  disrespect  to  God  himself.  If  we  have  a  true  testimony  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  how  can  we  leave  a  spiritual  feast  before  it  is  fin- 
ished. One  would  never  think  of  leaving  a  banquet  before  the  serving 
of  the  last  two  or  three  courses.  Of  course  there  are  exceptions,  there 
are  cases  and  times  when  necessity  makes  this  necessary.  But  seeing 
the  members  do  this,  not  only  at  these  sessions  of  Conference  but  in  our 
ward  meetings,  it  has  been  a  mystery  to  me,  because  as  I  stated  before  I 
do  love  to  hear  our  sacred  hymns  sung  and  the  final  benediction  pro- 
nounced at  our  Church  services.  I  am  sure  that  if  we  have  embarked 
in  the  service  of  God,  and  if  we  are  trying  to  live  up  to  our  religion  with 
all  our  heart,  might,  mind  and  strength,  we  will  never  leave  a  meeting 
before  it  is  completely  finished  and  the  amen  has  been  said. 

Some  reference  has  been  made  during  the  Conference  to  anti-"Mor- 
mon"  literature  that  is  being  spread  abroad.  Australia  has  been  no  ex- 
ception in  this  regard.  During  the  past  four  years  there  has  been  a  man 
by  the  name  of  Julian  Barclay,  masquerading  as  or  professing  to  be  the 


ELDER  LEONIDAS  DeVON  MECHAM  105 

re-incarnation  of  Christ,  and  he  has  received  wide  publicity  as  such, 
throughout  Australia.  During  the  course  of  the  past  year  this  same  man 
has  been  led  to  see  the  light  through  the  diligence  of  some  of  our  mis- 
sionaries and  through  his  own  prayerful  and  earnest  desire  to  find  the 
truth.  He  accepted  the  Gospel  and  joined  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  believe  humbly  and  sincerely,  because  of  the 
true  change  of  heart  which  I  have  witnessed  in  him.  The  newspapers, 
took  advantage  of  this,  and  have  circulated  false  propaganda  in  regard 
to  statements  that  they  claim  he  made  which  in  reality  he  did  not.  Along 
with  this  they  have  written  a  number  of  articles  of  an  anti-"Mormon" 
nature,  some  of  them  three  to  four  columns  in  length.  In  some  instances 
they  have  printed  them  on  the  front  page,  using  one  to  two-inch  block 
type  letters  in  their  headlines.  Two  papers  in  particular  did  this,  and 
they  had  statements  similar  to  the  following  as  their  headlines :  "Mor- 
mon Agents  are  Seeking  Girl  Recruits  in  Australia — Wiell  Spoken  Amer- 
icans Frequent  Cafes  and  Offer  Jobs  to  Pretty  Waitresses — All  Expenses 
For  Journey  and  8  pounds  ($40.00)  Per  Week !"  Some  of  these  articles 
have  carried  with  them  beautiful  pictures  and  descriptions  of  Salt  Lake 
City  and  the  Church  Office  building,  along  with  fine  write-ups  about 
scenic  Utah  and  its  wealth  in  natural  resources.  The  truth  mixed  with 
such  brazen  falsehood  made  the  articles  so  ridiculous  that  instead  of 
doing  harm  to  our  people  they  have  been  of  inestimable  value  to  our 
missionaries,  because  people  who  are  educated  and  think  for  themselves 
realize  that  these  statements  are  impossible,  and  when  they  came  in  con- 
tact with  our  missionaries  the  first  thing  they  wanted  to  know  was  just 
how  our  Church  organization  does  operate,  why  it  is  we  send  mission- 
aries into  the  world,  just  what  constitutes  our  beliefs,  etc.  These  things 
gave  us  a  wonderful  opportunity  to  spread  the  Gospel  among  that  peo- 
ple, giving  us  audiences  that  we  could  not  otherwise  have  had.  There- 
fore the  Elders  are  taking  advantage  of  this  and  are  laboring  with  all 
their  heart,  might,  mind,  and  strength  among  that  people. 

I  believe  firmly  that  the  Australian  mission  at  the  present  time  is  in 
the  healthiest  condition  it  has  ever  enjoyed.  The  missionaries,  though 
few  in  number,  are  doing  a  marvelous  work.  I  have  left  them  in  the  best 
of  health.  The  Saints  generally  throughout  Australia  are  also  enjoying 
very  good  health  and  are  not  being  hurt  by  this  depression  nearly  so 
much  as  are  the  other  people  of  the  commonwealth.  During  the  past  few 
months  there  has  been  a  remarkable  growth  in  the  Australian  mission. 
There  have  been  more  converts  baptized  and  more  Books  of  Mormon 
distributed  than  in  any  other  similar  period  in  the  entire  history  of  the 
mission.  This  speaks  volumes  for  the  work  the  missionaries  are  doing 
there. 

I  do  not  want  you  to  think  I  am  in  any  way  placing  all  the  honor 
or  glory  upon  the  Elders  who  are  laboring  there  now.  They  are  reap- 
ing what  the  other  missionaries  have  sown  in  years  past.  These  things 
run  in  cycles,  and  Australia  at  the  present  time  is  enjoying  a  cycle  of 
reaping.  Of  course  I  realize  fully  that  all  blessings  are  contingent  up- 
on God  and  to  him  belong  all  praise,  honor,  and  glory. 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

In  closing  I  want  to  bear  my  testimony.  I  only  hope  and  pray  that 
I  may  ever  remain  steadfast  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  I  may  • 
remain  firm  in  the  faith.  As  President  Grant  expressed  in  his  opening 
address,  I  have  never  seen  a  time  yet  when  I  wavered  the  least  bit  or 
had  any  cause  for  doing  so,  nor  have  I  come  in  contact  with  any  doc- 
trines of  other  churches  that  would  cause  me  to  waver  in  the  least  so  far 
as  my  faith  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  concerned.  I  only  hope  and 
pray  that  if  I  live  to  see  the  age  that  President  Grant  has  attained,  I  too 
may  look  back  on  my  years  and  be  able  to  continue  to  say  that  very 
thing.  In  fact,  after  looking  over  the  doctrines  of  the  world  as  they  are 
being  taught  in  the  various  denominations,  I  feel  just  as  Peter  did  in  the 
time  of  the  Savior.  You  will  recall  some  of  the  Redeemer's  disciples 
had  fallen  away  and  left  him,  and  he  turned  to  the  Twelve  and  said, 
"Will  ye  also  go  away?"  Then  Simon  Peter  answered  him,  "Lord,  to 
whom  shall  we  go?  Thou  hast  the  words  of  eternal  life."  That  is  what 
I  say  in  regard  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  If  we  haven't  the  Gospel 
in  our  Church  today  I  do  not  know  of  any  church  that  has,  and  I  would 
say,  to  whom  shall  we  go,  because  the  words  of  eternal  life  are  inculcated 
in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  know  that  it  has  everything  within  its 
fold  that  is  conducive  to  health,  happiness,  and  success,  and  the  richest 
of  all  blessings,  that  of  eternal  life  and  increase. 

May  God  bless  us  all  that  we  may  worship  and  obey  him  through- 
out our  lives,  with  all  our  heart,  might,  mind  and  strength,  is  my 
humble  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

Today,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  in  my  lot.  I  am  grateful 
to  my  Heavenly  Father  for  the  privilege  of  laboring  in  authority  of  the 
holy  priesthood. 

As  I  have  listened  to  the  remarks  made  during  this  Conference  I 
have  wondered  if  this  so-called  depression  is  not  really  a  blessing.  I  re- 
call six  months  ago  President  Charles  W.  Nibley  called  this  condition 
to  our  attention  and  urged  that  we  prepare  ourselves  to  be  ready  to  live 
according  to  the  United  Order. 

May  I  be  pardoned  if  I  take  a  moment  to  speak  of  him.  He  was 
as  a  father  to  me,  for  he  was  all  a  kind  and  loving  father  should  be  to  a 
son.  He  came  into  our  family  life  before  I  was  born.  In  my  youth  I 
learned  to  call  him  "uncle."  He  loved  my  father  with  a  devotion  seldom 
found  in  men.  Because  of  that  devotion  I  have  been  exceedingly  blessed. 
It  was  my  good  fortune  and  great  privilege  to  work  with  him  many 
years,  to  know  of  his  faith  and  his  integrity ;  and  I  want  to  testify  to  you 
that  he  was,  through  faith,  the  service  he  rendered  and  his  life's  work, 
in  a  position  to  advise  us  to  prepare  to  meet  the  requirements  of  these 
Gospel  teachings.  He  lived  them  and  never  taught  anything  that  he  did  not 
believe,  and  that  which  he  taught  he  believed  with  all  his  heart.  As  he 
learned  the  joy  of  service  in  the  Lord's  work  during  times  of  poverty  and 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH  107 

the  need  of  such  service  in  times  of  plenty,  should  we  not  accept  his  ad- 
vice and  example  to  guide  us  during  this  period  of  depression  ?  I  want 
to  relate  just  one  incident.  While  he  was  the  presiding  bishop  of  the 
Church  the  majority  interests  of  the  Sugar  Company  were  held  by  east- 
ern capitalists.  They  were  declared  by  the  Government  to  be  a  trust 
and  ordered  dissolved.  It  appeared  that  if  that  were  carried  out  the 
sugar  industry  of  the  intermountain  country  would  cease  to  be,  for  sugar 
could  be  made  much  cheaper  elsewhere.  He  went  to  New  York,  nego- 
tiated for  the  purchase  of  that  stock,  pledged  every  cent  he  had  in  the 
world  to  secure  it  and  came  home  thinking  it  would  be  an  easy  matter 
to  persuade  his  friends  and  business  associates  to  help  him  carry  the  load. 
But  few  of  them  helped.  On  every  hand  men  looking  at  dollars,  not  with 
the  viewpoint  he  had,  refused  to  help. 

I  remember  one  day  while  sitting  in  the  office  he  said :  "I  have  been 
impressed  that  this  industry  should  be  preserved  for  this  people.  I  may 
lose  every  cent  I  have  in  the  world,  but  if  I  save  the  industry  for  this 
people  I  shall  be  satisfied." 

Later  on,  the  demand  seemed  to  grow  in  the  East  for  that  stock.  It 
increased  in  value.  Day  after  day  men  came  to  the  office,  the  telephone 
rang,  for  people  were  then  willing,  when  they  could  see  a  chance  for  an 
increased  monetary  value,  to  give  him  support.  Later,  during  the  great 
war,  when  the  price  of  sugar  was  at  the  highest  it  has  ever  been,  I  had 
the  honor  of  representing  him  on  a  committee  to  deal  with  the  beet- 
raisers  to  negotiate  a  contract ;  and  his  only  advice  was,  "I  want  you  to 
endeavor  to  secure  an  agreement  for  the  division  of  profits  between  the 
beet-growers  and  those  who  have  put  their  money  into  this  industry." 

For  days  we  argued,  labored  and  pleaded  with  those  who  repre- 
sented the  beet-growers.  Finally  we  were  unable  to  reach  an  agreement. 
I  shall  never  forget  the  final  answer.  I  shouldn't  repeat  it  but  perhaps 
I  can  make  a  lesson  of  it.  When  I  finally  said :  "Now  let  us  be  reason- 
able ;  let  us  reach  an  agreement  in  this  matter  that  will  be  equitable  and 
just,"  the  spokesman  of  that  committee  said :  "To  hell  with  equity  and 
justice.  We  know  what  we  want  and  we  are  going  to  have  it."  And 
he  evidently  did  know,  for  he  got  what  they  wanted  and  the  beet-grow- 
ers and  the  stockholders  of  the  Sugar  Company  are  still  paying  the  debt. 

President  Nibley  was  always  ready  to  enter  into  the  United  Order. 
He  taught  it.  He  paid  his  tithes  and  his  offerings,  and  every  call 
made  of  him  through  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  was  uppermost 
in  his  mind  and  his  soul.  He  never  overlooked  that  statement  which 
the  Lord  made,  warning  the  rich  man  that  unless  he  gave  of  his 
substance  to  the  poor  his  riches  would  canker  his  soul.  He  had  been 
poor,  he  knew  what  it  was  to  go  hungry  and  cold.  He  knew  that  the 
salvation  of  man,  that  which  would  secure  for  him  exaltation  in  the 
kingdom  of  our  Lord,  must  be  obtained  by  faith  and  work. 

Again  I  say,  I  believe  this  time  of  depression  is  really  a  time  of 
blessing,  a  time  of  fasting,  a  time  in  which  we  are  called  to  turn  to  God, 
a  time  of  purification.  How  can  we  live  the  United  Order  when  we  have 
not  learned  to  live  according  to  the  law  which  teaches  us  to  pay  our  tithes 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

and  offerings?  How  can  we  live  according  to  the  law  of  the  United 
Order,  which  is  only  a  counterpart  of  the  great  law  of  eternal  salvation, 
which  does  not  mean  that  every  man  shall  share  alike  in  amount,  but 
only,  as  we  have  already  learned  in  this  Conference,  insofar  as  he  earns 
through  his  faith  and  his  works  the  right  to  participate  in  the  blessings  ? 
Not  all  shall  enjoy  the  celestial  glory,  but  those  only  who  earn  that  priv- 
ilege. 

And  so  it  comes  right  back  to  us,  are  we  worthy,  are  we  worthy  to 
enjoy  the  blessings  the  Lord  has  promised?  It  seems  to  me  that  there 
is  something  more  than  to  feed  men  and  women  bread.  Oh,  how  many 
are  there  who  are  dying,  slowly  dying,  spiritually,  for  want  of  spiritual 
food.  We  cannot  help  them  by  ridicule.  We  know  ridicule  and  abuse 
are  the  methods  of  hell.  The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  teaches  that  we 
shall  love  one  another,  and  how  many  of  us  who  hold  the  priesthood  really 
love  our  neighbor  ?  How  many  of  us  are  trying  to  feed  those  who  are 
hungering  for  the  Gospel  ?  If  we  could  only  touch  the  spark  of  life  and 
cause  it  to  burn  within  their  souls,  we  should  have  no  further  concern, 
for  the  Gospel  teaches  men  to  do  good.  The  testimony  of  the  Gospel 
leads  into  the  path  of  truth  and  righteousness  and  there  is  no  greater 
work  that  we  can  do  during  this  time  of  depression  than  to  take  ad- 
vantage of  this  forced  condition  of  humility  in  which  we  find  ourselves 
and  go  forth  to  carry  the  Gospel  message  to  those  who  are  hungering, 
dying  spiritually,  for  lack  of  spiritual  food. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  may  his  Spirit  be 
upon  us,  that  we  may  carry  his  Gospel  message  to  those  who  are  careless 
and  indifferent,  who  because  of  careless  habits  have  lost  the  spirit  and 
are  wandering  in  darkness.  Let  us  give  them  a  helping  hand  and  lead 
them  into  the  light,  that  we  may  be  blessed  eternally,  is  my  prayer,  which 
I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

It  is  a  wonderful  privilege  to  be  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  to  enjoy  the  fellowship  of  men  and 
women  whose  standards  of  life  are  noble  and  uplifting.  I  appreciate 
the  opportunity  I  have  to  live  in  this  choice  land  of  Zion  and  be  guided 
and  directed  by  the  teachings  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  and 
by  the  revelations  given  to  the  prophets  of  these  latter  days.  I  am 
thankful  I  have  faith  in  the  immortality  of  the  soul,  in  divine  revela- 
tion, in  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  and  in  the  blessings  of  the  holy 
priesthood.  In  this  Conference  we  have  listened  to  words  of  inspira- 
tion, encouragement  and  helpfulness,  which  help  prepare  us  for  the  bat- 
tle of  life  and  give  us  a  greater  desire  to  continue  in  this  work  in  which 
the  Lord  has  called  us  to  labor. 

Marvelous  changes  have  taken  place  in  the  last  thirty  years  because 
of  the  development  of  the  automobile,  the  radio,  motion  pictures  and 
sound  pictures.    Not  only  have  amusements  and  recreation  changed  the 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS  109 

general  attitude  toward  life,  ibut  modern  commercial  life  has  also  af- 
fected us.  We  are  still  suffering  from  the  effects  of  the  World  war, 
which  has  changed  some  of  our  ideals  and  habits.  I  feel  that  these 
changes  have  had  a  serious  effect  upon  the  attitude  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  particularly  toward  the  Lord's  day  of  rest.  Our  own  exacting 
requirements  have  made  it  necessary  for  railways,  street  cars,  and  other 
forms  of  transportation  to  be  carried  on  even  on  the  Lord's  day. 

I  have  been  thinking  concerning  the  Lord's  day,  mentioned  briefly 
by  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  I  wish  to  call  attention  at  this  time 
to  the  important  commandments  of  the  Lord  which  he  has  given  to  his 
people  in  the  past  and  in  the  present  day  concerning  his  day  of  rest. 
Let  us  briefly  remind  ourselves  what  the  Lord  requires  of  us. 

While  the  Children  of  Israel  were  traveling  in  Sinai  preparing  to 
enter  the  Promised  Land,  an  incident  of  great  importance  took  place. 
Moses  was  commanded  to  prepare  the  people  to  behold  the  face  of  God. 
They  gathered  around  Mount  Sinai,  but  when  the  ground  shook  and 
the  mountain  rocked  and  was  covered  with  smoke  and  fire,  the  people 
were  afraid  and  said  unto  Moses,  "Speak  thou  with  us,  and  we  will 
hear :  but  let  not  God  speak  with  us,  lest  we  die."  Then  the  Lord  spake 
unto  Moses,  giving  him  the  decalogue,  or  the  Ten  Commandments. 
Among  those  commandments  is  one  that  refers  to  the  Sabbath  day,  as 
follows : 

"Remember  the  sabbath  day,  to  keep  it  holy. 

"Six  days  shalt  thou  labour,  and  do  all  thy  work : 

"But  the  seventh  day  is  the  sabbath  of  the  Lord  thy  God;  in  it  thou  shalt 
not  do  any  work,  thou,  nor  thy  son,  nor  thy  daughter,  thy  manservant,  nor  thy 
maidservant,  nor  thy  cattle,  nor  thy  stranger  that  is  within  thy  gates : 

"For  in  six  days  the  Lord  made  heaven  and  earth,  the  sea,  and  all  that  in 
them  is,  and  rested  the  seventh  day:  wherefore  the  Lord  blessed  the  sabbath  day, 
and  hallowed  it." 

The  Lord  required  the  seventh  day  as  a  day  of  rest.  It  was  to  be 
holy  unto  the  Lord.  Even  in  the  daily  collection  of  manna,  a  double 
portion  fell  on  the  sixth  day,  the  day  before  the  Sabbath,  so  there  would 
be  no  necessity  for  gathering  food  on  the  seventh  day.  Not  only  was 
it  a  day  of  rest,  but  the  Lord  said  that  the  Children  of  Israel  should 
observe  that  day  and  sanctify  it.  The  observance  of  the  Sabbath  day 
was  a  distinctive  badge  of  membership  in  the  Hebrew  community.  No 
law  given  to  the  Hebrew  people  was  more  strictly  observed. 

In  the  days  of  the  Savior  the  Jews  had  made  so  many  restrictions 
concerning  the  Sabbath  day  that  the  Master  himself  stated,  "The  Sab- 
bath was  made  for  man,  and  not  man  for  the  Sabbath."  The  Jews 
looked  upon  the  observance  of  that  day  as  a  covenant,  as  indicated  in 
the  word  of  the  Lord  to  Moses,  contained  in  Exodus  31,  verses  13,  16 
and  17,  as  follows: 

"Speak  thou  also  unto  the  children  of  Israel,  saying,  Verily  my  sabbaths  ye 
shall  keep :  for  it  is  a  sign  between  me  and  you  throughout  your  generations ; 
that  ye  may  know  that  I  am  the  Lord  that  doth  sanctify  you.  .  .  . 

"Wherefore  the  children  of  Israel  shall  keep  the  sabbath,  to  observe  the 
sabbath  throughout  their  generations,  for  a  perpetual  covenant. 


110  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

"It  is  a  sign  between  me  and  the  children  of  Israel  forever :  for  in  six  days 
the  Lord  made  heaven  and  earth,  and  on  the  seventh  day  he  rested,  and  was 
refreshed." 

In  commemoration  of  the  resurrection  of  our  Redeemer  and  the 
fact  that  he  appeared  to  his  disciples  and  others  on  the  first  day  of  the 
week,  this  day  was  observed  by  the  early  Christians  as  a  day  of  rest, 
which  was  known  as  the  Lord's  day. 

To  us  the  first  day  of  the  week  is  the  Lord's  day.  The  Lord  has  not 
left  his  people  in  doubt  as  to  the  use  and  purpose  of  his  day.  On  Sun- 
day, the  7th  day  of  August,  1831,  a  few  days  after  the  land  of  Zion  had 
been  dedicated  for  the  gathering  of  his  people,  there  was  given  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  a  revelation  known  as  Section  59  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  part  of  which  is  as  follows : 

"Behold,  blessed,  saith  the  Lord,  are  they  who  have  come  up  unto  this  land 
with  an  eye  single  to  my  glory,  according  to  my  commandments.  .  .  . 

"Thou  shalt  offer  a  sacrifice  unto  the  Lord  thy  God  in  righteousness,  even 
that  of  a  broken  heart  and  a  contrite  spirit. 

"And  that  thou  mayest  more  fully  keep  thyself  unspotted  from  the  world, 
thou  shalt  go  to  the  house  of  prayer  and  offer  up  thy  sacraments  upon  my  holy 
day; 

"For  verily  this  is  a  day  appointed  unto  you  to  rest  from  your  labors,  and  to 
pay  thy  devotions  unto  the  Most  High ; 

"Nevertheless  thy  vows  shall  be  offered  up  in  righteousness  on  all  days  and 
at  all  times ; 

But  remember  that  on  this  the  Lord's  day,  thou  shalt  offer  thine  oblations 
and  thy  sacraments  unto  the  Most  High,  confessing  thy  sins  unto  thy  brethren, 
and  before  the  Lord. 

And  on  this  day  thou  shalt  do  none  other  thing,  only  let  thy  food  be  pre- 
pared with  singleness  of  heart  that  thy  fasting  may  be  perfect,  or,  in  other  words, 
that  thy  joy  may  be  full." 

This  is  the  way  the  Lord  intends  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  observe 
the  Lord's  day.  He  intends  that  we  shall  cease  from  our  labors  and  pay 
our  devotions  to  the  Most  High,  live  restfully  and  quietly  during  the 
day,  and  attend  the  house  of  worship  and  offer  up  our  sacraments  to 
our  Father  in  heaven.  It  is  obligatory  upon  every  Latter-day  Saint  to 
observe  this  day  both  in  its  spirit  and  meaning. 

President  Brigham  Young  in  his  day  called  attention  to  better  ob- 
servance of  the  Lord's  day.    He  said : 

"All  Latter-day  Saints  should  observe  the  Sabbath  by  resting  from  all  labor, 
except  those  who  must  be  detained  to  take  care  of  children  or  perform  some 
work  of  mercy.  Now,  remember  those  who  go  skating,  buggy  riding,  or  on  ex- 
cursions on  the  Sabbath  day  are  weak  in  the  faith  and  gradually,  little  by  little, 
the  spirit  of  their  religion  leaks  out  of  their  hearts  and  their  affections.  When  I 
see  a  man  gathering  in  his  crops,  or  cattle,  or  making  repairs  on  the  Lord's  day, 
I  count  him  weak  in  the  faith.  At  least  he  has  lost  the  spirit  of  his  religion.  We 
should  devote  our  time  as  the  Church  requires  it  on  the  Lord's  day,  for  the  ex- 
press purpose  of  renewing  our  mental  and  physical  powers  and  getting  our  spirit- 
ual food." 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  frequently  called  attention  to  the  lax 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS  111 

observance  of  the  Sabbath  day  among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  spoke 
as  follows : 

"Men  are  not  resting  from  their  labors  when  they  plow,  plant,  dig  or  do 
work  of  any  kind.  Men  are  not  resting  when  they  work  around  the  house  all 
day  doing  odd  jobs.  Men  are  not  honoring  the  Lord  when  they  go  to  places  of 
amusement.  Men  are  not  honoring  the  Lord  when  they  loiter  around  ice  cream 
places,  go  to  ball  games  and  witness  these  games.  It  is  a  reflection  on  any 
Latter-day  Saint  to  patronize  a  ball  game  on  the  Lord's  day." 

Quite  recently  President  Heber  J.  Grant  and  his  counselors,  not- 
ing the  trend  among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  made  the  following  appeal : 

"The  Lord's  day  is  a  holy  day — not  a  holiday.  It  has  been  set  apart  as  a  day 
of  rest  and  worship.  A  sacred  Sabbath  begets  reverence  for  God.  It  is  not 
pleasing  in  his  sight  that  the  day  be  given  over  to  pleasure-seeking  in  places  of 
amusement  or  elsewhere.  Sunday  schools  and  meetings  have  been  so  arranged  as 
to  meet  the  convenience  of  the  people  and  leave  a  considerable  portion  of  the 
Sabbath  day  without  Church  appointments.  We  earnestly  appeal  to  the  people 
to  keep  their  meeting  appointments  faithfully  and  to  utilize  that  portion  of  Sun- 
day not  appointed  for  meetings  in  promoting  family  association  in  the  home,  with 
the  purpose  of  stimulating  and  establishing  greater  home  fealty,  a  closer  com- 
panionship among  parents  and  children,  and  more  intimate  relations  among  all 
kindred.  We  believe  that  it  is  unnecessary  for  families  to  go  beyond  their  homes 
or  those  of  their  kindred  for  the  relaxation  and  association  which  are  proper  for 
the  Sabbath  day,  and  we  therefore  discourage  more  traveling  than  is  necessary 
for  this  purpose  and  attendance  upon  appointed  meetings.  Let  all  unnecessary 
labor  be  suspended  and  let  no  encouragement  be  given  by  the  attendance  of  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  at  places  of  amusement  and  recreation  on  the  Sabbath  day. 
If  Sunday  is  spent  in  our  meetings  and  in  our  homes,  great  blessings  will  come 
to  our  families  and  communities." 

No  person  can  disregard  the  Lord's  day  without  suffering  serious 
spiritual  consequences.  If  we  neglect  to  observe  it,  we  shall  become 
sick  spiritually.  The  Sabbath-breaker  will  lose  faith  in  this  great  work, 
for  faith  can  only  be  developed  by  service  and  obedience  to  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord.  The  Lord  is  not  pleased  with  Latter-day  Saints 
who  attend  Sunday  shows,  Sunday  ball  games,  who  play  golf  on  Sun- 
day, go  on  canyon  trips,  or  visit  places  of  amusement ;  .nor  is  he  pleased 
with  those  who  do  unnecessary  labor  on  the  Lord's  day. 

When  we  observe  the  Lord's  day  and  carry  out  the  spirit  of  the 
instructions  of  the  Lord,  as  I  have  quoted  in  Section  59  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  we  shall  grow  in  spiritual  power  and  usefulness,  great 
faith  will  come  into  our  souls,  and  our  minds  and  bodies  will  become 
rested.  This  observance  will  have  a  refining  influence  in  our  homes 
and  on  our  families.  Sabbath  observance  will  teach  our  children  the 
great  lessons  of  obedience  they  so  much  need. 

The  commandment  to  keep  the  Lord's  day  holy  is  always  binding 
upon  the  Lord's  people.  Let  us  get  in  harmony  with  the  word  of  the 
Lord  concerning  the  proper  observance  of  his  day  and  make  it  a  day 
of  rest  and  devotion  to  the  Most  High.    Amen. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "High 
on  the  mountain  tops." 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
Dear  Brethren,  Sisters,  and  Listeners : 

INDIVIDUAL  REVELATION 

Recently  I  was  asked  if  I  thought  the  Lord  would  not  have  some- 
thing to  say  to  the  people  of  the  Church  at  this  Conference,  of  course 
through  his  prophets.  "If  there  was  ever  a  time  when  divine  revela- 
tion was  needed,  it  is  now,"  my  questioner  remarked.  Apparently  he 
did  not  have  in  mind  one  of  our  fundamental  doctrines  relative  to  rev- 
elation.   It  was  stated  by  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  in  these  words : 

"The  spirit  of  inspiration,  the  gift  of  revelation,  does  not  belong  to  one  man 
solely;  it  is  not  a  gift  that  pertains  to  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  and  the 
Twelve  Apostles  alone.  It  is  not  confined  to  the  presiding  authorities  of  the 
Church ;  *  *  *  and  it  is  the  right  and  privilege  of  every  man,  every  woman,  and 
every  child  who  has  reached  the  years  of  accountability,  to  enjoy  the  spirit  of 
revelation.  *  *  *  It  is  the  privilege  of  every  individual  member  of  the  Church  to 
have  revelation  for  his  own  guidance,  for  the  direction  of  his  life  and  conduct — " 
(Gospel  Doctrine,  page  42). 

In  further  explanation,  President  Smith  said, 

"Every  individual  in  the  Church  has  the  right  to  enjoy  the  spirit  of  revela- 
tion— for  his  own  good — to  exercise  these  gifts  and  these  privileges  in  the  conduct 
of  his  own  affairs,  in  bringing  up  his  children  in  the  way  they  should  go,  and  in 
the  management  of  his  farm,  his  flocks,  his  herds  and  the  management  of  his 
business"  (Gospel  Doctrine,  page  43). 

These  truths  relative  to  revelation  are  generally  understood  by  the 
Latter-day  Saints  but  they  are  also  sometimes  forgotten.  Is  it  not 
greatly  encouraging,  however,  to  know  that  we  may  get  light  and  wis- 
dom from  God  our  Father  to  guide  us  aright  in  solving  our  individual 
problems  and  to  help  us  in  our  private  affairs  ?  If  we  can  be  so  fortu- 
nate as  to  have  wisdom  enough  to  manage  well  our  personal  affairs  and 
to  carry  acceptably  our  particular  responsibilities,  why  should  we  worry 
about  revelations  to  the  Church? 

REVELATION  TO  THE  CHURCH 

Respecting  this  type  of  revelation,  President  Smith  said  on  another 
occasion : 

"So  far  as  I  know  there  is  not  an  ordinance  of  the  Church  now  enjoyed  or 
practiced  that  was  not  revealed  to  the  Church  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I 
know  of  no  new  doctrine  that  has  been  revealed.  Principles  that  were  revealed  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  have  grown  and  developed  more  fully  and  clearly  to  the  un- 
derstanding; but  we  have  received  nothing  new  that  I  know  of."  (Gospel  Doc- 
trine, page  43). 

But  on  another  occasion  in  speaking  on  this  same  subject,  President 
Smith  said : 

"There  is  a  great  deal  that  has  been  revealed  that  has  not  yet  been  lived  up 
to,  I  assure  you.  There  is  a  great  deal  yet  remaining  to  be  learned.  *  *  *  There 
is  a  great  deal  that  has  been   revealed   through   the    Prophet  Joseph    and   his 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL  113 

associates  that  the  people  have  not  yet  received  in  their  hearts,  and  have  not 
yet  become  converted  to  as  they  should.  When  we  obey  and  are  capable  of 
observing  the  precepts  of  the  Gospel  and  the  laws  of  God  and  the  requirements 
of  heaven,  which  have  already  been  revealed,  *  *  *  then  there  are  other  things 
still  greater  yet  to  be  revealed  to  the  people  of  God."     (Gospel  Doctrine,  page  44.) 

Weak  as  we  are,  disobedient  as  we  are,  hard  hearted  and  stubborn 
as  we  are,  I  wonder  if  it  would  not  be  more  becoming  of  us  to  fear  new 
revelation  than  to  desire  it.  Of  course  we  believe  "God  will  yet  reveal 
many  great  and  important  things  pertaining  to"  his  kingdom.  But  I  fear 
that  we  are  not  yet  ready  for  or  worthy  of  the  revelation  of  these  things. 
What  do  you  think  about  it  ?  . 

But  of  course  we  do  believe  in  continuous  revelation,  in  the  doc- 
trine that  God  lives  and  that  he  reveals  his  will  to  worthy  individuals 
who  believe  in  him  and  who  obey  his  commandments.  Especially  do  we 
believe  that  God  makes  known  his  mind  and  will  concerning  the  Church, 
its  membership  and  the  world  generally  through  his  prophet,  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church.  At  this  point  let  me  illustrate  my  meaning  by  an 
example. 

CHRISTMAS   GREETINGS  QUOTED 

In  the  Christmas  edition  of  the  Deseret  News,  December  19,  1931, 
the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church  published  their  "Christmas  Greet- 
ings."   May  I  read  some  excerpts  from  these  Greetings? 

"With  the  coming  of  Christmastide  and  the  dawning  of  a  new  year,  we  are 
confronted  with  a  bankrupt  world — a  world  in  which  the  nations,  as  well  as 
individuals,  find  themselves  fettered  with  the  bonds  of  debt.  A  universal  de- 
pression exists,  the  like  of  which  has  never  before  prevailed  under  similar 
conditions. 

"With  banks  overburdened  with  money,  thousands  of  honest  toilers  are 
unable  to  pay  the  grocer.  With  elevators  bursting  with  wheat,  industrial  workers 
are  without  bread.  With  warehouses  over-stocked  with  sugar  which  cannot  be 
sold,  children  cry  for  the  sweets  which  they  so  much  crave  but  cannot  procure." 

And  the  Greetings  continue : 

"The  prophet  Isaiah,  referring  to  the  age  in  which  we  live,  tells  us  that  a 
time  of  tribulation  will  come  from  which  none  shall  escape.  He  says :  'It  shall 
be,  as  with  the  people,  so  with  the  priest ;  as  with  the  servant,  so  with  the  master ; 
as  with  the  maid,  so  with  her  mistress ;  as  with  the  buyer,  so  with  the  seller ; 
as  with  the  lender,  so  with  the  borrower;  as  with  the  taker  of  usury,  so  with 
the  giver  of  usury  to  him.'." 

And  then  the  Greetings  continue  with  these  cheering  words: 

"Notwithstanding  the  confusion  which  at  the  present  prevails  in  this  world 
of  ours,  we  have  much  to  be  thankful  for,  and  we  can  look  (confidently  to 
brighter  days." 

But  what  are  the  conditions  ?    They  are  clearly  stated  in  the  Greet- 
ings as  follows : 

"If  the  people  of  the  world  will  turn  to  God,  and  acknowledge  His  Son,  our 
Redeemer;  if  each  citizen  of  our  country  will  put  away  selfishness,  strife  and 
bitterness;  if  men  who  enact  our  laws  will  be  governed  by  the  necessities  of  all 
of  the  people,  and  not  of  a  favored  few;  if  every  citizen  will  pledge  himself  to 
rigidly  observe  the  laws,  and  uphold  the  men  Who  frame  and  execute  them — " 


114  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Then  what  will  happen  if  these  conditions  are  all  fulfilled  ?    Listen,  I  beg 
of  you,  to  the  glorious  promises  of  the  Greetings : 

"The  sun  pi  (prosperity  will  shine  again,  and  peace  and  plenty  will  prevail 
from  the  rivers  to  the  ends  of  the  earth." 

But  what  if  these  conditions  are  not  fulfilled  and  we  continue  as  we 
have  been  doing?     I  reply  in  the  language  of  the  Greetings: 

"If  the  extravagant  expenditure  of  money  by  our  government,  our  states,  our 
counties,  and  municipalities,  and  citizens,  as  it  has  prevailed  during  the  past  few 
years,  is  to  continue;  if  heavier  burdens  of  taxation  are  to  be  saddled  upon  the 
people;  if  murders,  robberies,  racketeering,  tha  appointment  or  election  of  dis- 
honest men  to  office,  and  other  violations  of  the  law  are  to  go  unpunished — " 

Then  what  will  be  the  consequences  ?  Hear,  I  pray  you,  these  fate- 
ful words  of  the  Greetings: 

"Chaos  must  be  our  inevitable  heritage." 

To  all  of  you  who  are  looking  for  or  desire  the  word  of  the  Lord 
applied  to  the  conditions  of  this  very  hour,  I  most  earnestly  commend 
these  Greetings.  And  may  I  remind  you  that  the  document,  part  of 
which  I  have  just  read,  was  signed  by  the  Presidency  of  this  Church, 
Heber  J.  Grant  and  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  who  are  mouthpieces  of  God  to 
this  people.  And  do  not  forget,  I  beg  of  you,  that  President  Grant 
holds  all  the  keys,  authority,  rights  and,  powers  of  the  holy  priesthood 
that  were  ever  given  to  any  man  that  lived  upon  the  earth. 

And  so  to  me  these  Greetings  are  an  expression  of  God's  will  to  us, 
to  the  world.  They  are  in  very  deed  a  revelation  of  his  will  to  the 
Church,  as  authoritative  and  as  scriptural  as  any  passages  in  the  Holy 
Bible.  Extravagant  claims,  do  you  say?  Well,  they  state  my  deep  and 
honest  convictions  relative  to  this  point. 

HOW  TO  WIN  THE  FAVOR  OF  THE  LORD 

And  what  must  we  do  to  win  God's  favor  in  order  that  "the  sun 
of  prosperity  shall  shine  again,"  a  desideratum  for  which  all  the  world 
is  longing?  Let  us  read  the  document  over  and  over  until  the  condi- 
tions are  unforgettably  impressed  upon  our  memories.  Briefly  para- 
phrased, we  must  observe  the  two  great  commandments  and  make  the 
Golden  Rule  the  actual  motto  of  our  lives. 

CAUSES    OF   DEPRESSION 

Why  are  we,  the  country,  the  world,  in  our  present  fix?  Because 
we  have  forgotten  and  disobeyed  our  Creator  and  God.  The  words  in 
the  Greetings  are  my  scriptural  authority  for  this  declaration.  My 
thinking  leads  me  irresistibly  to  the  conclusions  expressed  in  the  docu- 
ment. 

In  this  "depression"  the  people  as  a  whole  are  perhaps  not  unjustly 
suffering.  We  live  in  a  world  governed  by  law.  There  are  so-called 
natural  laws — divine  laws — as  well  as  human  laws.  A  violation  of  law 
entails,  in  justice,  a  recompense.  Hence,  we  suffer,  in  general,  not  be- 
cause God  whimsically  afflicts  us,  but  because  of  violation  of  some  kind 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL  115 

of  law  or  laws.    The  idea  I  have  in  mind  is  related  to  the  declaration 
in  Section  130  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  verses  20-21. 

"There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  foundations  of  this 
world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated — 

"And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  from  God,  it  is  iby  obedience  to  that 
law  upon  which  it  is  predicated." 

It  follows,  of  course,  that  if  we  violate  law  we  shall  have  to  suffer 
the  consequences.    Justice  requires  this. 

We  live  in  a  world  of  plenty — there  is  plenty  of  food,  plenty  of 
clothing  and  shelter  or  the  means  of  making  them ;  yet  there  are  millions 
of  God's  children  who  are  hungry,  ragged,  and  cold  at  this  very  moment. 
And  why  ?  Many  reasons  can  be  given,  but  in  the  last  analysis,  they  are 
reducible  to  one— selfishness.  And  through  his  servants,  the  Lord  lays 
down  as  one  condition  for  the  return  of  prosperity  the  elimination  of 
selfishness  in  our  inter-relations. 

Of  the  many  "cures"  for  the  "depression"  that  I  have  read,  except 
the  one  just  quoted,  not  one  is  based  upon  unselfishness.  In  fact,  selfish- 
ness appears  to  be  the  most  prominent  characteristic  of  most  of  these 
"cures"  and  for  that  reason  none  of  them  will  "cure."  God's  inspired 
servants  have  made  this  plain,  and  reason,  too,  tells  the  thoughtful  that 
they  are  right. 

UNSELFISHNESS  THE   CURE 

The  return  of  peace,  happiness,  and  prosperity  to  all  the  people 
demands  a  basis  of  stability.  But  this  can  never  be  until  all  who  are 
able  to  work  have  work  to  do,  until  there  is  a  job  for  everyone.  And  a 
workable  plan  that  will  provide  a  job  for  everyone  at  a  living  wage, 
must  have  unselfishness  as  its  outstanding  characteristic.  I  can  find  no 
logical  escape  from  this  conclusion.  And  so  far  as  I  can  see,  no  work- 
able plan  can  go  into  effect  until  our  political,  financial,  economic,  in- 
dustrial and  labor  leaders  get  together  around  a  council  table  and  agree. 
If  this  is  true,  why  do  they  not  do  it?  Selfishness  is  the  answer.  And 
selfishness  will  always  be  a  controlling  factor  until  the  two  great  com- 
mandments are  dominant  in  the  minds  and  hearts  of  men.  We  demand 
that  the  federal  government  reduce  expenses  and  balance  the  budget. 
And  have  you  observed  that  every  proposition  made  in  Washington  to 
reduce  federal  expenses  in  Utah  meets  with  our  violent  protest?  We 
wish  the  government  to  reduce  expenses  elsewhere  but  to  increase  them 
in  Utah.    Why?    Is  not  selfishness  the  answer? 

And  we  want  the  budget  balanced.  This  means  the  government 
must  raise  more  money.  How?  The  only  way  seems  to  be  by  some 
form  of  increased  taxation,  but  we  protest  every  suggestion  to  increase 
our  taxes.  Apparently  we  are  far,  very  far,  from  a  willingness  to  live 
the  "Golden  Rule."  We  are  willing  for  the  other  fellow  to  be  taxed, 
but  protest  being  taxed  ourselves. 

BANK  FAILURES 

Let  me  give  you  another  illustration,  a  delicate  one  I  admit.  There 


116  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

have  been  many  bank  failures  in  this  intermountain  country  during  the 
past  year.  The  closing  was  due  in  most  cases,  probably,  to  a  "run  on 
the  bank."  Now  of  course  when  we  think  a  little  about  the  matter  it  is 
clear  that  no  bank  can  immediately  give  back  to  depositors  all  their 
money.  Some  of  it  is  always  loaned  out  on  time  accounts,  and  borrowers 
are  not  able  to  pay  on  demand.  Hence  if  all  the  depositors  make  a  run 
on  a  bank  they  will  inevitably  force  it  to  close.  Now  what  causes  a  run  ? 
Selfishness,  of  course.  If  the  bank  is  in  distress,  let  the  other  fellow 
lose.  I  want  my  money  and  so  rush  after  it,  hoping  to  beat  the  other 
fellow  to  the  bank,  if  in  this  matter  all  depositors  were  to  live  the 
Golden  Rule  there  would  be  few,  if  any,  losers  and  few,  if  any,  bank 
closings.    This  is  a  self-evident  fact. 

THE  EIGHTEENTH   AMENDMENT 

Another  illustration:  Certain  powerful  interests  in  the  United 
States  are  carrying  on  an  intensive  campaign,  designed  to  nullify  or 
eliminate  the  18th  amendment  to  the  constitution  of  the  United  States. 
Vast  amounts  of  money,  it  is  said,  are  behind  the  active  but  deceptive 
propaganda  to  effect  this  result.  And  why  do  some  people  want  the 
manufacture  and  sale  of  intoxicating  liquors  again  legalized?  Once 
more  I  assert,  selfishness  is  the  dominating  motive.  Selfishness  is  at  the 
bottom  of  all  law  violation,  of  depravity,  and  crime.  And  if  selfishness 
shall  continue  as  the  ruling  motive  in  human  affairs,  chaos  will  result. 
This  is  the  conclusion  of  the  Greetings. 

Some  people  are  simple  enough  to  believe  that  legalizing  the  manu- 
facture and  sale  of  alcoholic  liquors  in  the  United  States  will  bring  back 
prosperity  to  the  country.  Are  England  and  Germany  prosperous  ?  As 
well  say  a  man  can  lift  himself  by  his  boot  straps.  Can  a  country  drink 
itself  into  prosperity  by  imbibing  narcotic  beverages?  Reason  stands 
aghast  at  such  a  proposition.  And  the  fact  that  the  governing  board  of 
a  powerful  local  organization  gives  support  to  such  an  idea  does  not 
rob  it  of  its  absurdity.  Further,  2.75  °fo  beer  cannot  be  made  and  sold 
in  this  country  without  violation  of  the  18th  amendment,  because  2.75% 
beer  is  intoxicating,  a  fact  unquestionably  established  by  scientific  in- 
vestigations.    (See  How  to  Live,  p.  366.) 

THE  LORD'S  WAY  BEST 

Now  the  sooner  we  believe  the  Lord's  way  is  the  best  way,  the 
better  it  will  be  for  us,  the  country  and  the  world.  It  is  not  only  the 
best  way,  it  is  the  only  way  to  secure  permanent  prosperity.  If  we  do 
not  accept  this  truth  and  act  accordingly  we  shall  continue  to  suffer,  for 
the  Lord  will  not  be  mocked.    His  prophets  have  spoken. 

May  the  Lord  give  us  eyes  to  see,  hearts  to  feel,  minds  to  under- 
stand and  wills  to  do,  so  that  the  clouds  of  adversity  shall  roll  away,  the 
sun  of  prosperity  shall  shine  again,  and  peace  and  plenty  shall  prevail 
"from  the  rivers  to  the  ends  of  the  earth,"  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.    Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  117 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  Literary  Digest  of  April  2nd,  1932,  contains  the  following 
3.rticlc  •  ' 

"THE  DRUNKARD  DISAPPEARING" 

"The  tremendous  army  of  the  -unemployed  and  down-and-outers  seeking 
aid  from  the  Salvation  Army  is  almost  entirely  drink-free,  and  poverty  from 
drink  is  a  negligible  factor  in  the  current  depression. 

"This  is  the  testimony  of  Col.  'George  H.  Davis,  in  charge  of  the  Salvation 
Army  forces  at  Chicago,  who  backs  up  his  opinion  by  the  experience  of  his 
organization  with  more  than  a  million  cases  of  hard  luck  and  poverty  in  the 
past   few  months.  i 

"Colonel  Davis'  statement  was  made  to  the  Illinois  Conference  of  Organiza- 
tions Supporting  the  Eighteenth  Amendment.  It  is  offered  by  the  W.  C.  T.  U.  in 
opposing  the  group  now  fighting  Prohibition. 

"As  it  is  issued  by  the  Salvation  Army,  Colonel  Davis's  statement  is,  in  part, 
as  'follows :  \ 

"  'Out  of  more  than  a  million  cases  we  have  dealt  with  in  the  last  sixteen 
months,  there  were  only  seventy-five  bad  cases  of  drink,  and  of  moderate  cases, 
only  500. 

"  'From  October  11,  1930,  to  February  3,  1932,  we  helped  1,102,545  unemployed 
men.  Of  this  number  ,we  found  99.92  per  cent  drink  free.  Having  nothing  to 
do,  many  of  these  men  would  have  drunk  to  excess  if  they  could  get  the  liquor. 

"  'I  did  not  realize  the  small  percentage  of  drinking  men  that  (pass  through 
our  doors  until  I  personally  checked  it  up. 

"  'The  number  of  iwomen  coming  to  our  doors  with  a  tale  of  being  ruined 
Iby  drink  is  less  than  1  per  tent  of  the  entire  number,  whereas  in  former  days 
it  was  a  considerable  proportion.  i 

"  'In  our  family  welfare  relief  work  in  these  days  we  seldom  find  need 
arising  from  strong  drink  on  the  jpart  of  one  or  other  of  the  parents,  whereas 
in  the  old  days  it  was  90  out  of  100  cases.  In  fact,  poverty  from  drink  has 
almost  disappeared.  I 

"  'The  old-time  drunkard,  the  wets  of  the  country  notwithstanding,  is  gone. 

"  'Before  Prohibition  the  Salvation  Army  would  gather  drunks  by  the 
truckload  and  busload  ,from  the  saloons  and  park  benches.  Today  one  would 
have  to  search  high  and  low  in  every  American  city  to  find  at  one  time  100 
men  and  women  of  the  type  the  Salvation  Army  (used  to  gather  by  the  thousands 
under  the  rule  of  John  Barleycorn.' 

"This  agrees  with  the  experience  of  Commander  Evangeline  Booth.  As 
noted  in  these  pages  May  17,  1930,  she  said  that  before  Prohibition  the  Salvation 
Army  in  New  York  .would  collect  1,200  to  1,300  drunkards  in  a  night,  whereas 
Prohibition  immediately  reduced  the  number  to  400." 

PROHIBITION    MEETING   TO    BE    HELD    IN    TABERNACLE 

There  will  be  held  in  this  building  next  Thursday  evening  a  Pro- 
hibition meeting,  and  the  speaker  will  be  Dr.  Daniel  A.  Poling,  a  man 
of  great  renown.    The  meeting  will  commence  at  7:30. 

I  have  heard  Dr.  Poling  speak,  and  can  assure  you  that  he  is  one 
of  the  best  speakers  for  Prohibition  that  I  have  heard.  He  was  one 
of  the  speakers  of  the  "Flying  Squadron"  that  was  started  by  the  late 
Governor  Frank  Hanly  of  Indiana,  than  whom  no  more  eloquent, 
magnificent  defender  of  Prohibition  and  fighter  against  whiskey  have 
I  had  the  privilege  of  listening  to.  I  hope  that  this  audience  is  an 
indication  of  what  we  will  have  here  next  Thursday  night.  I  would 
be  delighted  if  it  could  be  said  that  the  greatest  audience  Daniel  A. 
Poling  ever  faced  was  in  the  Mormon  Tabernacle.  It  would  give  me 
great  joy. 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

I  told  Elder  Charles  H.  Hart  that  I  was  going  to  steal  his  time 
today.  It  is  the  first  time  during  my  presidency  that  I  have  failed  to 
ask  all  of  the  General  Authorities  to  speak;  but  it  being  so  near  my 
birthday  and  wanting  to  throw  bouquets  at  myself  and  talk  about 
myself,  and  so  on,  I  feel  a  little  selfish.  So  I  decided  to  take  part 
of  the  remaining  thirty  minutes  to  read  announcements,  to  present 
the  Authorities  of  the  Church,  and  to  do  the  bouquet  throwing. 

VACANCIES  NOT  TO  BE  FILLED  AT  THIS  CONFERENCE 

I  expect  there  will  be  considerable  comment  when  I  present 
the  General  Authorities,  seeing  that  we  are  not  going  to  fill  the  vacancy 
in  the  First  Presidency  nor  call  a  man  to  succeed  Brother  Hyrum  G. 
Smith  as  Presiding  Patriarch.  Some  will  say :  Did  you  ever  hear  of 
such  a  thing?  Yes,  way  back  in  1880,  fifty-two  years  ago  next  October, 
there  was  a  vacancy  in  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  that  lasted  for  two 
years ;  then  Brother  Orson  Pratt  died,  making  two  vacancies  that  lasted 
a  little  over  a  year.  When  President  Brigham  Young  died  there  was 
no  First  Presidency  for  three  or  four  years,  and  when  President  John 
Taylor  died  there  was  no  First  Presidency  for  several  years.  So  this 
is  not  so  new  after  all. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  for  the  vote  of  the  Conference  the  General  Authorities 
and  Officers  of  the  Church,  also  the  General  Auxiliary  Officers,  who 
were  unanimously  sustained,  as  follows: 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES   OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST    PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthony  W.  Ivins,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF   THE   COUNCIL   OF  THE  TWELVE   APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL   OF   THE   TWELVE    APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  James  E.  Talmage 

Reed  Smoot  Stephen  L.  Richards 

George  Albert  Smith  Richard  R.  Lyman 

George  F.  Richards  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

David  O.  McKay  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and 
the  Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 
As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER'J.  GRANT  119 

FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  SEVENTY 

Brigham  H.  Roberts 
Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Charles  H.  Hart 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Levi  Edgar  Young 

Joseph  W.  McMurrin  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

I  regret  to  inform  you  that  Brother  McMurrin  is  in  a  serious  con- 
dition of  health.  I  am  sure  he  would  have  been  delighted  to  be  present 
with  us,  in  fact  I  have  a  letter  to  that  effect  from  his  son. 

PRESIDING   BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH    HISTORIAN    AND    RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants:  Andrew 
Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  and  A.  William  Lund. 

CHURCH    BOARD    OF    EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant'  David  O.  McKay 

Anthony  W.  Ivins  Stephen  L.  Richards 

Willard  Young  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Rudger  Clawson  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Joseph  F.  Merrill  Adam  S.  Bennion 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER   OF   EDUCATION 

Joseph  F.  Merrill 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Henry  H.  Rolapp  Orval  W.  Adams  John  W.  Hart 

TABERNACLE    CHOIR 

Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor ;  B.  Cecil  Gates,  Assistant  Conductor ; 
David  A.  Smith,  President. 

ORGANISTS 

Edward  P.  Kimball  Alexander  Schreiner  Frank  W.  Asper 

CLERK   OF   GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

Joseph  Anderson 
GENERAL  AUXILIARY   OFFICERS   OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL   WOMAN'S   RELIEF    SOCIETY 

Louise  Y.  Robison,  President 
Amy  Brown  Lyman,  First  Counselor 
Julia  A.  Child,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at'  present  constituted. 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

David  O.  McKay,  General  Superintendent 
Stephen  L.  Richards,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
George  D.  Pyper,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at'  present  constituted. 

YOUNG    MEN'S    MUTUAL    IMPROVEMENT    ASSOCIATION 

George  Albert  Smith,   General   Superintendent 
Richard  R.  Lyman,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  2nd  Asst'.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG    LADIES'    MUTUAL    IMPROVEMENT   ASSOCIATION 

Ruth  May  Fox,  President 
Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  First  Counselor 
Clarissa  A.  Beesley,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  Superintendent 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Edna  Harker  Thomas,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

"Then  one  of  them,  which  was  a  lawyer,  asked  him  a  question,  tempting  him, 
and  saying, 

"Master,  which  is  the  great  commandment  in  the  law? 

"Jesus  said  unto  him,  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart, 
and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  ithy  mind. 

"This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment. 

"And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself. 

"On  these  two  commandments  hang  all  the  law  and  the  prophets." 

I  endorse  very  heartily  indeed  the  remarks  made  here  by  the  last 
speaker.  It  shows  a  remarkable  lack  of  love  of  our  neighbor  for 
Latter-day  Saints,  some  of  them  holding  high  positions  in  the  Church, 
to  rush  and  get  their  money  out  of  a  bank  in  which  the  Church  owns 
fifty  per  cent  of  the  stock.  It  shows  wonderful  lack  of  loyalty,  to  say 
the  least.  ; 

DENOUNCES    FALSEHOODS 

I  remarked  here  the  day  before  yesterday  that  the  New  Era  came 
to  my  desk  and  found  lodgment  in  the  waste  basket.  Lo  and  behold, 
another  New  Era  came  to  me,  not  only  containing  the  same  things 
as  the  one  that  landed  in  the  waste  basket,  but  also  an  open  letter  from 
a  gentleman  who  had  approached  a  man  and  tried  to  persuade  him  to 
certify  to  the  fact  that  he  was  a  go-between  between  me  and  a  girl  in 
Liverpool  to  propose  marriage,  which  would  have  been  certifying  to  an 
absolute  falsehood. 

Jesse  B.  Stone  is  the  man  who  sent  me  this  New  Era.  I  have  a  letter 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  121 

from  the  man  whom  Stone  tried  to  get  to  sign  this  falsehood  and  he  says 
that  he  informed  Stone  there  was  not  a  word  of  truth  in  the  story.  The 
lady  that  I  am  supposed  to  have  been  married  to  tried  to  come  up  here  on 
the  stand  the  other  day.  She  has  been  in  the  insane  asylum,  and  I  think 
she  was  there  before  our  friend  Stone  interviewed  her  at  all. 

Now  when  the  second  New  Era  arrived  I  decided  to  read  at  least 
the  headlines  and  then  throw  it  into  the  waste  basket,  but  after  I  read  the 
headlines  I  decided  to  read  part  of  the  contents. 

"A  rift  in  Commercial  Mormonism."  There  is  no  commercial 
Mormonism  and  never  has  been.  The  Mormon  Church  upon  many 
occasions  has  reached  out  its  hand  to  help  industries  for  the  benefit  of 
the  people.  There  is  no  commercialism  in  that.  This  is  something  in 
the  nature  of  a  father,  figuratively  speaking,  trying  to  help  his  children. 

"The  beginning  of  the  end."  "One  bank  closes  its  doors  and 
another  commences  to  totter." 

I  consider  that  an  absolute  falsehood  pure  and  simple.  With  the 
help  that  can  now  be  secured  from  the  Reconstruction  Corporation 
under  the  government  there  is  no  necessity  for  any  bank  whatever  with 
its  capital  unimpaired,  closing  its  doors.  I  do  not  know,  but  I  think 
I  shall  ask  an  attorney  if  there  is  no  law  that  will  deal  with  a  man 
and  send  him  to  the  penitentiary  who  circulates  falsehoods  which  might 
cause  the  failure  of  a  bank.  Of  course  the  other  bank  that  is  to  close 
it's  doors,  judging  from  this  article,  is  undoubtedly  meant  to  be  Zion's 
Savings  Bank. 

"In  spite  of  all  denials  evidence  shows  that  plural  marriage  is 
taught  by  the  Authorities."  In  spite  of  all  falsehoods  by  liars — I 
thought  I  wouldn't  use  that  word,  but  really  a  liar  is  a  liar,  and  perhaps 
once  in  a  while  it  is  wise  to  say  sol — in  spite  of  every  document  printed, 
in  spite  of  every  statement  to  the  contrary  by  any  person  on  the  face 
of  the  earth,  the  Authorities  of  this  Church  under  the  administration  of 
Heber  J.  Grant  as  President,  have  never  taught,  have  never  encouraged, 
have  never  sustained  any  human  being  in  entering  pretended  plural  mar- 
riage. All  these  statements  are  pure  and  simple  falsehoods.  You  all  know 
that  we  have  cut  a  great  many  people  off  the  Church  for  entering  into 
pretended  plural  marriage.  I  have  had  a  letter  from  one  who  was 
excommunicated  in  which  he  wanted  to  know  when  the  time  would 
come  when  we  would  stop  treating  the  best  blood  of  the  Church  that 
way,  namely,  by  cutting  them  off  the  Church.  I  answered :  When  people 
quit  going  into  adultery,  so  to  speak,  and  calling  it  celestial  marriage, 
maybe  it  will  stop,  so  far  as  they  are  concerned. 

I  pledge  myself  here  if  any  person  will  bring  to  us  the  evidence 
that  any  man  or  any  woman  belonging  to  this  Church  has  entered  into 
pretended  plural  marriage,  that  we  will  cut  them  off  the  Church. 

"When  the  Deseret  Savings  Bank,  fostered  by  the  leaders  of  the 
Church"! — a  falsehood.  It  was  not  fostered  by  the  leaders  of  the  Church 
■ — "and  prominent  members  thereof  whose  financial  ability  was  not 
questioned,  closed  its  doors  during  February  and  that  Zion's  Savings 
Bank  was  harassed  by  depositors  withdrawing  funds  until  it  was  almost 
'bled  white'  a  situation  was  created,  which  brought  home  the  realiza- 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

tion  that  security  of  financial  institutions  functioning  by  means  of 
Church  funds  are  not  as  iron  clad  as  certain  quarters  endeavor  to  make 
the  commoner,  not  informed  as  to  the  real  situation,  believe  they  are." 

Zion's  Savings  Bank  was  not  "bled  white."  The  bank  was  open 
until  nine  o'clock  at  night  during  the  run  and  would  have  kept  open 
just  as  long  as  anybody  wanted  to  come  and  get  his  money. 

"To  save  the  Zion's  Bank  from  closing  its  doors,  the  President  of 
the  Church  was  forced  to  rush  two  million  dollars  into  its  vaults,  money 
which  he  had  secured  from  a  financial  concern  in  the  east  for  the 
purpose  of  financing  the  beet  crop  of  the  Utah-Idaho  Sugar  Company, 
and  enable  it  to  function  another  season,  information  which  proceeds 
from  a  most  reliable  source." 

Heber  J.  Grant  did  not  borrow  a  dollar  in  the  East.  Heber  J. 
Grant  did  not  know  that  Zion's  Bank  was  in  distress ;  he  did  not  know 
there  had  been  a  run  on  the  bank  until  he  reached  home;  and  Heber 
J.  Grant  did  not  go  east  to  borrow  money  to  finance  the  crop  of  the 
Sugar  Company,  because  the  Sugar  Company  financed  its  own  crop  and 
paid  all  of  the  people  who  had  raised  beets  before  there  was  a  run  on 
Zion's  Savings  Bank.  The  "reliable  source"  reminds  me  of  what 
Josh  Billings  says:  "Never  judge  a  man  by  his  relatives,  he  can't 
help  them,  they  are  crowded  on  him,  but  judge  him  by  the  company 
he  keeps,"  and  the  reliable  company  from  which  this  man  gets  his 
information  is  one  of  the  crowd  of  falsifiers.  I  would  like  to  use  the 
other  word.  It  is  shorter  and  more  emphatic,  but  I  think  I  will  let  it 
go  at  falsifiers. 

I  did  intend  to  comment  on  |a  full  half  column,  but  I  really  think 
it  is  a  waste  of  breath. 

FAVORS  LAW  PROTECTING  SAVINGS  BANKS 

I  want  to  endorse  what  Brother  Merrill  said.  I  hope  some  day 
to  see  {a  law  passed,  and  I  have  held  this  opinion  ever  since  the  year 
1893 — nearly  forty  yearsi — that  no  savings  bank  should  ever  be  per- 
mitted by  law  to  pay  any  depositor  a  dollar  on  his  deposits  except  when 
it  became  due  after  proper  notice.  I  do  not  think  people  should  be 
permitted  to  put  their  money  in  a  savings  bank,  and  then  rush  and  get 
it,  when  they  know  as  (well  as  they  know  they  live  if  everybody  else 
like  themselves  had  heart  failure,  financially  speaking,  no  savings  bank 
on  earth  could  exist,  because  a  bank  cannot  pay  interest  for  money 
and  then  keep  it  in  (vaults  waiting  for  somebody  to  come  and  get  it. 
I  am  sure  even  if  there  were  such  a  law  that  any  depositor  would  be 
given  his  money  if  he  actually  needed  it. 

PERSONAL  LOSSES 

I  might  incidentally  remark  that  I  owned  $37,500  of  stock  in  Zion's 
Savings  Bank  way  back  in  d.893,  which  cost  me  $75,000,  and  Zion's 
Savings  Bank  was  "bled  white"  figuratively  speaking  in  1893,  because 
of  the  loss  of  confidence  by  the  people  who  drew  out  their  money; 
and  I  lost  every  dollar  of  my  stock.  I  lost  that  stock  at  $140.00  a  share 
and  I  had  paid  $200.00  for  it. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  123 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  men  like  the  late  Isaac  Barton  who  would 
not  draw  a  dollar  out  of  the  State  Bank  during  the  run  of  1893.  I 
had  thirty  thousand  dollars  stock  in  the  State  Bank  of  Utah,  and  it 
was  paid  ior,  but  I  was  borrowing  money  on  Zion's  Savings  Bank 
and  State  Bank  stocks  in  New  York,  with  George  Q.  Cannon,  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  John  Henry  Smith,  Francis  |M.  Lyman;  Thomas  R.  Cutler 
and  other  loyal  men,  with  which  to  build  the  first  beet  sugar  factory 
ever  built  with  American  machinery  in  the  United  States.  I  lost 
$62,000,  President  Cannon  eighty-odd  thousand,  Presidents  Joseph  F. 
Smith  and  John  Henry  Smith  and  Francis  M.  Lyman  twenty  thousand 
dollars  apiece.  (We  all  lost  our  bank  stocks  with  the  exception  of 
Brother  Cannon.  I  was  very  glad  that  he  was  able  to  buy  the  stocks 
that  we  had  to  sell,  his  share  of  them  at  least,  and  did  not  eventually 
lose  anything,  but  got  the  benefit  of  their  subsequent  growth. 

;        LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  FULFILLING  THE  LAW 

So  far  as  these  liars  are  concerned — they  claim  that  Brother 
Ballard  taught  a  woman  plural  marriage.  It  is  a  falsehood.  This 
man  goes  on  reiterating  again  that  John  A.  Widtsoe  has  a  plural  wife — 
one  more  falsehood.  There  are  so  many  of  them  that  it  is  really  a  waste 
of  time  to  refer  to  them.  But  let  me  say  to>  these  falsifiers  that  the 
work  of  the  Lord  is  onward  and  upward.  It  is  progressing  and  the 
majority  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  fulfilling  the  law  that  I  have 
read  here,  namely,  that  their  first  allegiance  is  to  God,  and  second,  the 
love  of  their  fellow  men.    There  is  no  question  about  it  in  my  mind. 

THE  GOSPEL  ACCORDING  TO  THE  VISION 

I  endorse  the  necessity  of  living  the  laws  of  the  Gospel.  I  rejoice 
in  the  Gospel.  'I  am  inclined  to  think  that  damnation  is  more  or  less 
in  the  nature  of  condemnation.  The  Gospel,  according  to  the  vision 
given  to  (Joseph  Smith  and  Sidney  Rigdon,  is  as  follows : 

"And  this  is  the  gospel,  the  glad  tidings,  which  the  .voice  out  of  the  heavens 
bore  record  unto  us — 

"That  he  came  into  the  world,  even  Jesus,  to  be  crucified  for  the  world,  and 
to  bear  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  to  sanctify  the  world,  and  to  cleanse  it  from 
all  unrighteousness; 

"That  through  him  all  might  be  saved  whom  the  Father  had  put  into  his 
power  and  made  by  him ; 

"Who  glorifies  the  Father,  and  saves  all  the  works  of  his  hands,  except 
those  sons  of  perdition  who  deny  the  Son  after  the  Father  has  revealed  him." 

They  are  few  and  far  between — very  few.  '    ' 

Again  I  rejoice  that  we  are  fundamentalists: 
"And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  of  him,  this 
is  the  testimony,  last  of  all,  .which  ,we  give  of  him:  That  he  lives!" — speaking  of 
the  Savior. 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father — 

"That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and  of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were 
created,  and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto  God." 

I  see  that  I  have  occupied  Brother  Hart's  time  and  my  own  too. 
I  rejoice  in  the  wonderful  attendance  we  have  had  at  this  conference, 


124  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

in  the  faith  manifested  ,by  the  Saints,  and  in  the  most  remarkable  and 
splendid  attendance  that  we  had  at  our  general  priesthood  meeting, 
the  largest  we  have  ever  had  at  one  of  those  meetings. 

CHARITY  TOWARD  ALL 

There  is  one  more  thing  that  I  want  to  say :  In  preaching  on  the 
Word  of  iWisdom,  or  preaching  about  cards,  or  preaching  about  any- 
thing else  along  the  line  of  the  teachings  of  the  Authorities  of  the 
Church,  if  anybody  preaches  without  charity  he  is  not  preaching  accord- 
ing to  the  laws  of  the  Gospel.  We  have  the  following  statement  in  the 
121st  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  (Covenants : 

"Behold,  there  are  many  called,  but  few  are  chosen.  *  *  * 

"No  power   or   influence   can  or   ought   to   be  maintained  by  virtue  of   the 

priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by  long-suffering,  by  gentleness  and  meekness, 

and  by  love  unfeigned ; 

"By   kindness,   and   pure   knowledge,   which   shall   greatly   enlarge   the   soul 

without  hypocrisy,  and   without  guile — " 

Something  else  however — 

"Reproving  betimes  with  sharpness,  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost ; 
and  then  showing  forth  afterwards  an  increase  of  love  toward  him  whom 
thou  hast  reproved,  lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be  his  enemy." 

I  am  naturally  emphatic  in  my  talk,  and  I  want  to  say  to  all  of 
our  young  Ipeople  that  I  hope  they  will  never  get  the  impression  that 
because  they  fail  to  live  up  to  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  other  teachings 
of  this  Church  there  is  any  hatred  in  my  heart  towards  them.  I  try 
to  even  love  my  enemies,  to  say  nothing  about  the  sons  and  the  daughters 
of  men  and  women  who  would  readily  give  their  lives  for  this  cause. 
There  is  no  jsection  in  all  the  iDoctrine  and  Covenants  from  which 
I  have  quoted  'more  often  and  that  I  have  tried  to  live  up  to  more 
perfectly  than  section  one  hundred  and  twenty-one,  that  wonderful 
revelation  given  to  the  Prophet  of  God  while  he  was  in  Liberty  Jail. 

God  bless  you  one  and  all,  is  my  prayer,  and  I  do  bless  you  by  the 
authority  of  the  priesthood  of  the  living  iGod  that  I  hold  and  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Great  is  Jehovah,  the  Lord,"  solo 
part  by  Sister  Margaret  S.  Hewlett. 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Henry  A.  Gardner,  presi- 
dent of  the  Palmyra  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 

Prof.  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing  of  the  Choir  and 
Congregation  at  the  Conference  meetings. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played 
by  Edward  P.  Kimball  and  Frank  W.  Asper. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Authorities   Present 1 

Authorities,  Presentation  of  118 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J 56 

Benefits  of  conference,  56 — Kingdom  of  Satan  to  be  shaken,  57 — A 
century  of  progress,  57 — The  hand  of  God  manifest,  59 — Growth 
of  iChurch,  59 — Hopeful  of  future,  60 — Advice  to  Latter-day  Saints, 
61 — Testimony  of  the  truth,  61.  i  \ 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0 15 

Bluth,  Elder  John  V 28 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A 13 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q 47 

Guidance  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  47 — Church  advancement,  47 — Priest- 
hood activity,  48 — Building  construction,  48 — Clarity  of  conscience, 
48 — A  time  of  trial,  49 — The  power  of  true  religion,  49 — Abraham's 
willingness  to  sacrifice,  49 — The  Savior's  great  sacrifice,  50 — Martyr- 
dom of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  50 — Real  values  of  life,  51 — Development 
through  sacrifice,  51 — Tithing  requires  faith,  51 — Tithing  in  other 
churches,  51 — Faithful  tithepayers  generally  employed,  52. 

Clawson,  Elder  Rudger  85 

Testimonies  thrill,  86 — Progress  reported,  86 — The  character  of 
God's  work,  86 — Revelation  explains,  87 — More  light  given,  87 — Duty 
to  proclaim  jGospel,  88 — Responsibilities  explained,  88 — Quotes  new 
song,  89 — Bears  testimony,  89. 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting 25 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting 2 

General  Authorities  Present 1 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church 118 

General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church 119 

General  Officers  of  the  Church 119 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 2 

Church  expenditures,  2 — Members  spend  million,  3 — Statistics  and 
other  data  compiled  from  the  annual  reports  for  the  year  1931,  3 — ■ 
Church  growth,  3 — Social  statistics,  4 — Home  owning  urged,  4 — 
Changes  in  stake  and  mission  officers  since  last  October  Conference, 
4 — Lauds  those  dead,  5 — Receives  letter,  5 — Malicious  communica- 
tions, 5 — Denies  charges,  6 — "Mormons"  lauded,  6 — Integrity  pleases, 
7 — Answers  editor,  7 — Challenges  proof,  7 — Asks  for  half  column,  8 — 
Attitude  changes,  8 — Seventy-fifth  birthday  celebrated,  8 — Thankful 
for  health,  8 — Appreciative  of  love  and  confidence  of  saints,  9 — Faith 
in  the  Gospel,  9 — Strange  evidence,  9 — Intimate  with  Brigham  Young, 
10 — Recalls    last   interview,    10 — Greatness    recognized,    10 — Wanted 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

large  state,  11 — Lauds  predecessors,  11 — Letter  pleases,  11 — Praised 
by  millionaire,  12 — Rejoices  in  good  will,  12 — Early  persecutions,  12 — 
Quotes  poem,  13. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 13 

Grant,  President  Heber  J; 46 

Auditor's  (report,  46. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J ....... .^ 99 

Tariff  on  copper,  99. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 117 

"The  drunkard  disappearing,"  117 — Prohibition  meeting  to  be  held  in 
tabernacle,  117 — Vacancies  not  to  foe  filled  at  this  conference,  118. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 118 

General  Authorities  of  the  ;Church,  118 — General  [Officers  of  the 
Church,  119 — General  Auxiliary  officers  of  the  Church,  119. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 120 

Denounces  falsehoods,  120 — Favors  law  protecting  savings  banks,  122 
— Personal  losses,  122 — Latter-day  Saints  fulfilling  the  law,  123 — The 
Gospel  according  to  the  jvision,  123 — Charity  toward  all,  124.  ■ 

Hinckley,  Elder  Alonzo  A 33 

Hulterstrom,  Elder  Gideon  N 52 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W 81 

First  reference  to  use  of  money,  81 — Temporal  things,  81 — The  origin 
and  (development  of  man's  occupations,  81 — Professions  arise,  82 — 
Medium  of  [exchange  created,  82 — Banking  system  developed,  82 — 
Responsibility  of  the  banker,  83 — Man  only  unit,  84 — How  the  depres- 
sion may  be  overcome,  84 — Chaos  threatens,  85 — Prays  for  wisdom,  85. 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R 71 

Jones,  Elder  Miles  L 19 

Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden  77 

Lund,  Elder  A.  William 21 

McKay,  Elder  David  0 61 

Association  with  Jeaders  an  inspiration,  62: — Christ  the  ideal,  62 — 
(Christ's  Gospel  a  perfect  plan,  62— Christ's  Church  a  comprehensive 
plan,  62 — Faith  an  anchor  to  the  soul,  63 — More  faith  needed,  63 — 
Faith  should  foe  increased  not  undermined,  63 — Principles  to  be  ap- 
proached from  proper  view  point,  64 — Principle  of  fasting  applied  to 
health,  64 — To  self-control,  64 — An  economic  benefit,  65 — The  Church 
triumphant,  65.  ] 

Mecham,  Elder  Leonidas  DeVon 104 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F 112 

Individual  revelation,  122 — Revelation  to  the  Church,  112 — Christmas 
greetings  quoted,  113 — How  to  win  the  favor  of  the  Lord,  114 — Causes 
of  depression,  114 — Unselfishness  the  cure,  115 — Bank  failures,  115 — 
The  Eighteenth  Amendment,  116 — The  Lord's  way  best,  116. 


INDEX  127 

Moyle,  Elder  James  H 25 

Richards,  Elder  George  F 37 

Integrity  01  stake  'workers,  37 — Need  for  improvement,  38 — Satis- 
faction in  being  right,  38 — Discharging  our  responsibility,  39 — Sacri- 
fice brings  blessings,  39 — Local  Saints  as  missionaries,  40 

Roberts,  Elder  Brigham  H 92 

Romney,  Elder  George  S 32 

Rowan,  Elder  Charles  E.,  Jr 30 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting 66 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting 47 

Sloan,  Elder  William  R 17 

Smith,  Elder  David  A 106 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert 41 

Blessings  follow  obedience,  42 — In  the  days  of  Noah,  42 — The  ancient 
inhabitants  of  America,  42 — The  result  of  disobedience,  43 — The 
only  remedy,  43 — Comforts  in  abundance,  44 — The  cause  and  cure, 
44 — Our  Mission,  45. 

Smith.  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  89 

As  a  reward  of  faithfulness,  90 — All  things  spiritual  with  the  Lord, 
90 — Power  to  choose  for  himself,  90 — A  temporal  law,  91 — A  promise 
and  warning,  91 — Observance  of  the  Sabbath,  92. 

Tadje,   Elder  Fred    54 

Talmage,  Elder  James  E 100 

Significance  of  motives,  100 — Conference  assemblies,  100 — Actuality 
of  religion,  100 — Christ's  affirmation  of  his  divinity,  101 — The  revolt 
at  Nazareth,  101 — Predicted  signs  of  the  end,  102' — Elijah's  coming, 
102 — A  specific  instance  of  denial,  103 — Signs  of  the  time,  103. 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting 99 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting   80 

Welling,  Elder  Arthur    22 

Wells,   Elder  John    108 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S 66 

Woodruff,  Elder  Elias  S.   18 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar 74 


All  Students  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon 

WILL  FIND  THE  BOOK 

An  Introduction  to  the  Study  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon 

By  J.  M.  SJODAHL 

To  be  mighty  interesting  and  illuminating 

"Some  of  the  contents  of  the  book  has  appeared  in  the  IMPROVEMENT 
ERA  and  other  Church  publications  during!  the  last  ten  years,  and  friends 
have  been  good  enough  to  say,  repeatedly,  that  they  would  be  glad  to  have 
those  contributions  in  some  form  more  convenient  for  reference.  Acting 
on  their  suggestion,  I  have  collected  some  papers  previously  published  and 
others  that  now  appear  for  the  first  time,  and  respectfully  submit  them  in 
this  form  to  the  public.  In  doing  so,  it  is  my  sincere  prayer  that  the  testi- 
mony here  offered  may  be  of  benefit  to  the  reader,  and  especially  to  honest 
seekers  after  the  truth." 

Price  $3.50 


Sunday  Night  Talks 
by  Radio 

In  answer  to  an  insistent  demand  the  1930  series  of  L.  D.  S.  Radio 
Addresses  given  by  Dr.  James  E.  Talmage  has  now  been  issued  in  regular 
book  form  under  the  title  of  "Sunday  Night  Talks  By  Radio."  It  is 
printed  on  a  good  grade  of  book  paper  from  type  especially  set  for  this 
edition,  and  durably  bound  in  beautiful  marblex  cloth. 

This  book  will  make  a  beautiful  as  well  as  practical  and  useful  ad- 
dition to  the  library  of  any  member  of  the  Church.  It  will  be  especially 
valuable  to  missionaries  or  prospective  missionaries. 

Price  $1.50  Postpaid 

Send  your  order  now  to  the 

Deseret  Book  Company 

"The  Home  ol  Good  Books" 
44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


A  veritable  epic  of  empire-building 

The  Lite  Story  oi 
Brigham  Young 

By  SUSA  YOUNG  GATES  AND  LEAH  D.  WIDTSOE 
WITH  A  FOREWORD  BY  HONORABLE  REED  SMOOT 

"This  book  presents  the  life  story  of  a  New  England  cabinet-maker, 
who,  well  into  his  thirties,  entered  upon  a  career  that  made  him  an  empire- 
builder  of  the  West;  the  founder  of  a  hundred  cities;  the  governor  of  one 
of  the  territories  of  the  United  States;  and  one  of  the  outstanding  figures 
of  the  nineteenth  century." 

Thus  does  Senator  Smoot  begin  his  enthusiastic  foreword  to  this  notable 
biography.  "A  graphic,  gripping  story,"  he  terms  it,  and  every  reader 
undoubtedly  will  agree  with  his  definition  of  this  life  of  the  indefatigable, 
indomitable  Brigham  Young,  which  was  written  by  one  of  his  daughters 
and  her  daughter.  The  entire  record  of  the  great  Mormon  leader  is  un- 
folded from  his  birth  in  a  little  Vermont  town  to  his  death  at  the  age  of 
seventy-seven  as  bead  of  the  church,  the  success  of  which  was  due  to  his 
courageous  and  arduous  leadership. 

A  Special  Edition.    Beautifully  and  Substantially  Bound  in  Cloth. 

Price  $2.50 

HAVE  YOU  EVER  READ 

THE  BOOK  OF  ABRAHAM 

as  contained  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price?  A  vivid  story  of  the  creation  of 
the  earth,  and  a  wonderful  description  of  the  constellations  in  the  vast 
expanse  of  the  heavens. 

Buy  the  PEARL  OF  GREAT  PRICE  now,  and  read  what  Abraham  wrote. 

Price  50c 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


