ANNUAL 

cofiffRfncf 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

GphiL  X  ^,  5  ami  6, 

With  Report  of  Discourses 

Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 


Education  Lives  As  Long  As  You  Read 

GOOD  BOOKS 


Life  of  a  Great  Leader  $2.50 

Biography  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant 
Bryant  S.  Hinckley 

Presidents  of  the  Church   $4.00 

Preston  Nibley 
New  revised  edition  including  biographical  sketch  of 
President  David  O.  McKay 

Brigham  Young,  the  Man  and  His  Work  $3.00 

Preston  Nibley 

Masterpieces  of  Latter-day  Saint  Leaders  $2.00 

Compiled  by  N.  B.  Lundwall 

A  Marvelous  Work  and  a  Wonder  $1.75 

LeGrand  Richards 

Sermons  and  Missionary  Services  of 

Melvin  J.  Ballard      $2.75 

Bryant  S.  Hinckley 

Prophecy  and  Modern  Times  $1.75 

W.  Cleon  Skousen 

Book  of  Mormon  Evidences  in 

Ancient  America   $6.00 

Leatherette  Edition   $7.50 

Dewey  Farnsworth 

Outlines  of  Ecclesiastical  History  $2.25 

B.  H.  Roberts 


All  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 

44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-fourth  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-fourth 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 

fesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was 
leld  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah,  Saturday,  Sunday,  Monday  and 
Tuesday,  April  3,  4,  5,  and  6,  1954. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00  p.m., 
Sunday,  Monday  and  Tuesday,  and  the 
General  Priesthood  meeting  was  held 
in  the  Tabernacle  Saturday  evening, 
April  3,  at  7:00. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  ses- 
sions were  broadcast  and  telecast  over 
Station  KSL,  and  by  arrangement 
through  KSL  over  the  following  sta- 
tions: 

In  Utah:  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KSUB 
at  Cedar  City,  KVNU  at  Logan,  KJAM 
at  Vernal. 

In  Idaho:  KRXX  at  Rexburg,  KJRL 
at  Pocatello,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KGEM 
at  Boise,  KBAR  at  Burley  (Sunday 
only),  KEEP  at  Twin  Falls. 

In  California  (Sunday  only):  KBLA 
at  North  Hollywood,  KEEN  at  San 
Jose,  KSBR  at  San  Bruno,  KRON-FM  at 
San  Francisco,  KGO-TV  at  San  Fran- 
cisco, KCCC-TV  at  Sacramento,  KNXT- 
TV  at  Los  Angeles. 

In  Oregon  (Sunday  only) :  KPAM  at 
Portland,  KSGA  at  Cottage  Grove, 
KGAL  at  Lebanon,  KGAE  at  Salem, 
KERG  at  Eugene,  KOIN-TV  at  Port- 
land. 

In  Washington  (Sunday  Morning 
only) :  KTNT-TV  at  Tacoma. 

In  Hawaii  (Sunday  Morning  only,  by 
delayed  broadcast):  KGMB  at  Hono- 
lulu. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  ses- 
sions were  also  televised  over  KSL  tele- 
vision station,  Channel  5. 

^  All  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  on 


Temple  Square,  and  in  Barratt  Hall 
(60  North  Main  Street),  over  a  loud- 
speaking  system  and  by  television. 
Thousands,  in  addition,  listened  to  the 
services  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds  by 
means  of  amplifying  equipment. 

The  proceedings  of  the  General 
Priesthood  meeting  were  broadcast  by 
special  wire  in  the  following  places: 
Bonneville  Stake  Tabernacle,  Granite 
Stake  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City;  Sandy 
Amusement  Hall;  Ogden  Stake  Taber- 
nacle; George  Albert  Smith  Fieldhouse 
of  the  Brigham  Young  University,  Provo; 
the  Institute  of  Religion  Building  of  the 
Utah  State  Agricultural  College  in 
Logan;  South  Idaho  Falls  Tabernacle  in 
Idaho  Falls;  Big  Horn  Stake  Tabernacle 
in  Lovell,  Wyoming.  This  was  for  the 
accommodation  of  large  groups  of 
brethren  holding  the  priesthood  who 
had  assembled  in  those  buildings  to 
listen  to  the  services. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services  at  each  of 
the  sessions  of  the  Conference,  including 
the  General  Priesthood  meeting. 

A  full  report  of  Columbia  Broadcast- 
ing Company's  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
Organ  broadcast  is  also  included  in  this 
record  as  is  also  a  full  account  of  Colvun- 
bia's  Church  of  the  Air  program. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

The  First  Presidency:  David  O. 
McKay,  Stephen  L  Richards  and  J. 
Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Harold  B.  Lee, 
Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson, 
Mark  E.  Petersen,  *  Henry  D.  Moyle, 
Delbert  L.  Stapley,  Marion  G.  Romney, 
LeGrand  Richards,  Adam  S.  Bennion, 

*Elder  Matthew  Cowley  passed  away  December 
I3i  1953.  '  ■ 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Richard  L.  Evans,  and  George  Q. 
Morris.  ** 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Thomas  E.  McKay,  Clifford  E.  Youftg, 
Alma  Sonne,  ElRay  L.  Christiansen, 
John  Longden,  Hugh  B.  Brown,  and 
Sterling  W.  Sill.  *** 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy: 
Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins, 
Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  Seymour  Dilworth 
Young,  Milton  R.  Hunter,  Bruce  R. 
McConkie,  and  Marion  Duff  Hanks. 

Presiding  Bishopric:  Joseph  L.  Wirth- 
lin,  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  and  Carl  W. 
Buehner. 

General  Officers  and  Other 

Authorities  Present 
Church    Historian    and  Recorder: 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  A.  William 

Lund,  Assistant. 
Members   of   the   General  Welfare 

Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 
Members  of  Church  Board  of  Educa- 

**Elder  George  Q.  Morris  was  sustained  at  this 
Conference  (April  6)  as  a  member  of  tfie  Quorum 
of  the  Twelve  to  fill  the  vacancy  caused  by  the  death 
of  Elder  Matthew  Cowley. 

•••Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill  sustained  as  an  As- 
sistant to  the  Twelve  Apostles  to  fill  the  vacancy 
caused  by  selecting  George  Q.  Morris  to  fill  the 
vacancy  in  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles. 


tion  and  Administrator  Church  Board  of 
Education,  Directors  and  Asodate  Di- 
rectors of  Institutes,  and  Seminary  in- 
structors. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Coim- 
selors.  Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs, 
High  Priests,  Seventies,  Elders,  General, 
Stake  and  Ward  officers  of  Auxiliary 
Associations,  etc.,  from  all  parts  of  the 
Church. 

Mission  Presidents:  Richard  L.  Evans, 
Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City;  Delbert 
G.  Taylor,  Eastern  States;  J.  Howard  . 
Maughan,  New  England;  Isaac  A.  Smoot, 
Northern  States;  Lorin  L.  Richards, 
Great  Lakes  Mission;  John  B.  Hawkes, 
North  Central  States;  Cornelius  Zappey, 
East  Central  States;  Alvin  R.  Dyer, 
Central  States;  Peter  J.  Ricks,  Southern 
States;  Bryan  L.  Bunker,  California; 
Thomas  W.  Gardner,  Northern  Cali- 
forriia;  LeGrand  F.  Smith,  Texas- 
Louisiana;  A.  Lewis  Elggren,  Western 
States;  James  A.  McMurrin,  North- 
western States;  J.  Melvin  Toone,  Canada; 
R.  Scott  Zimmerman,  Western  Cana- 
dian; Claudious  Bowman,  Mexico; 
Harold  I.  Bowman,  Spanish-American; 
Golden  R.  Buchanan,  Southwest  Indian; 
Edward  L.  Clissold,  Hawaii,  Gordon  M. 
Romney,  Central  American. 


FIRST  DAY 
GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


The  first  session  of  the  Conference 
was  a  General  Priesthood  meeting, 
which  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle  at 
7:00  p.m.,  Saturday,  April  3. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  who  pre- 
sided, conducted  the  services  of  this 
meeting,  and  made  the  following  intro- 
ductory statement: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Fellow  laborers  in  the  Cause  of  our 
Lord  and  Savior:  In  behalf  of  the  First 
Presidency  and  other  General  Authori- 
ties of  the  Church,  I  bid  you  welcome 


to  this,  the  opening  session  of  the  124th 
Annual  Conference,  probably  the  most 
largely  attended  Priesthod  Meeting  ever 
held  in  the  Church. 

You  will  be  interested  to  know  that 
these  services  are  being  broadcast  in  the 
Assembly  Hall,  in  Barratt  Hall,  over 
public  address  systems,  and  in  addition, 
are  being  broadcast  by  direct  wire  over 
a  public  address  system  to  members  of 
the  Priesthood  assembled  in  the  follow- 
ing places:  Bonneville  Stake  Tabernacle, 
Granite  Stake  Tabernacle,  Sandy  Amuse- 
ment Hall,  Ogden  Stake  Tabernacle, 
George  Albert  Smith  Fieldhouse  of  the 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


Brigham  Young  University,  Provo;  the 
Institute  of  Rehgion  Building  of  the 
Utah  State  Agricultural  College  in 
Logan;  South  Idaho  Falls  Tabernacle  in 
Idaho  Falls;  Big  Horn  Stake  Tabernacle 
in  Lovell,  Wyoming. 

The  singing  during  this  session,  will 
be  furnished  by  the  Millennial  Chorus, 
with  Elder  A.  Burt  Keddihgton  as  Di- 
rector and  Elder  Roy  M.  Darley  at  the 
organ.  We  shall  open  these  serviecs  by 
the  Millennial  Chorus  singing,  "Joseph 
Smith's  First  Prayer,"  conducted  by  Elder 
Keddington. 

Elder  Earl  S.  Paul,  formerly  Ptesident 
of  the  Mount  Ogden  Stake,  and  Presi- 


dent of  the  Samoan  Mission  will  offer 
the  opening  prayer. 


Selection  by  the  Millennial  Qhorus, 
"O  How  Lovely  Was  the  Morning." 

Elder  Earl  S.  Paul,  formerly  Presi- 
dent of  the  Samoan  Mission,  offered  the 
invocation. 

Singing  by  the  Chorus:  "Out  In  the 
Fields  With  God." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  have  a  message  from 
the  presidency  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood, 
represented  by  Bishop  Wirthlin. 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 


iaifc^  -  iRESiDENT  McKay  and  my  be- 
^F^W'  !  loved  brethren  of  the  Mel- 
chizedek  and  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood, I  sincerely  trust  that 
the  Holy  Spirit  will  guide 
and  inspire  me  in  my  utter- 
ances this  night. 

This  is  a  new  day — a  new  day  that 
dawned  when  a  young  man  in  the 
woods  of  western  New  York  supplicated 
God  humbly  for  divine  direction  in  find- 
ing the  Church  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
The  prayer  was  answered.  The  Father 
and  the  Son  appeared  to  him  whidi 
appearance  reamrmed  to  the  world  that 
God,  our  Eternal  Father,  is  a  being 
with  body,  parts  and  passions  and  in 
whose  image  we  are  created.  His  visit 
confirmed  to  the  world  that  the  de- 
spised Nazarene  crucified  upon  Calvary's 
Hill  was  the  only  begotten  of  the  Father 
in  the  flesh — ^the  Creator  of  mankind. 

By  divine  direction,  this  young  man, 
Joseph  Smith,  unearthed  a  sacred  rec- 
ord buried  centuries  ago  in  the  ancient 
Hill  Cumorah.  This  record  contained 
the  revelations  of  the  Lord  to  the  people 
that  lived  upon  this  the  American  Con- 
tinent centuries  ago.  The  scriptures  in 
this  holy  record  are  among  the  most 
profoimd  ever  given  to  any  people  or 


in  any  dispensation.  For  example,  Lehi 
declared: 

Adam  fell  that  men  might  be;  and  men 
are,  that  they  might  have  joy.  (2  Nephi, 
C3iapter  2,  Vene  25.) 

In  this  day,  a  new  philosophy  had 
fallen  upon  the  ears  of  a  disillusioned 
generation.  The  world  was  in  the 
throes  of  a  great  apostasy. 

As  we  think  of  the  joy  mentioned  by 
Lehi,  I  submit  the  following  questions: 
Could  men  have  joy  in  the  doctrine  that 
unbaptized  babes  would  burn  in  hell 
forever?  Could  men  have  joy  in  being 
denied  the  right  to  worship  God  ac- 
cording to  the  dictates  of  conscience? 
Could  men  have  joy  in  being  denied 
the  right  to  read  the  word  of  God? 
Could  men  have  joy  in  the  thought  that 
mental  and  physical  torture  manifests 
genuine  repentance?  Could  men  have 
joy  in  being  lead  into  the  realms  of 
ignorance  and  worshiping  a  God  of 
whom  they  could  not  conceive? 

Many  statements  fell  from  the  mouth 
of  the  young  Prophet,  but  one  which 
startled  the  world  was  the  declaration: 
"The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence." 
"Men  cannot  be  saved  in  ignorance." 

The  Lord,  through  this  American 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  3 

Prophet,  revealed  in  the  Book  of  Moses, 
Chapter  1,  Verse  39,  that  his  glory  and 
work  was  as  declared  by  the  Lord: 

For  ];)ehold,  this  is  my  work  and  my 
glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and 
eternal  life  of  man. 

Had  anyone  previous  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  ever  revealed  to  the  world 
the  most  important  work  and  glory  of 
the  Creator?  Imagine  if  you  will  he 
who  created  all  tilings — the  universe, 
endless  worlds  and  man  declared  that 
his  most  important  objective  was  to 
bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal 
life  of  man.  If  the  work  and  objectives 
of  the  Lord  are  to  be  accomplished,  there 
had  to  be  established  a  direct  relation- 
ship between  our  Father  in  heaven  and 
man  on  earth.  Channels  of  communica- 
tion had  to  be  reopened  so  that  the  Lord 
could  reveal  his  mind  and  will  to  those 
he  selected  to  represent  him.  Hence, 
the  priesthood  was  restored  to  estab- 
lish the  former  relationship  wherein 
God  directed  his  work  for  the  bringing 
about  the  immortality  and  eternal  life 
of  man.  John  the  Baptist  returned  to 
earth  and  conferred  upon  Joseph  Smith 
and  Oliver  Cowdery  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood, the  same  authority  which  existed 
in  the  days  of  John  the  Baptist  which 
holds  lie  keys  of  the  ministering  of 
angels  and  the  gospel  of  repentance  and 
baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission 
of  sins.  Shortly  thereafter,  by  divine 
direction,  the  Apostolic  Presidency, 
Peter,  James,  and  John  bestowed  upon 
Joseph  Smith  and  his  associate  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood  which  holds 
the  keys  of  loosening  and  binding  both 
upon  the  earth  and  in  the  heavens,  the 
laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  the  keys  to  preach  the 
gospel  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue 
and  people,  the  keys  for  the  work  for 
the  dead,  and,  hence,  the  relationship 
which  existed  between  the  prophets  and 
apostles  of  old  was  established  in  this 
day  to  the  end  that  the  Lord's  plans 
for  the  eternal  blessing  of  his  children 
might  be  brought  into  fruition.  Priest- 
hood is  divine  authority,  and  as  Joseph 
Smith  declared: 


First  Day 

...  is  an  everlasting  principle  and  existed 
with  God  from  eternity  and  will  to  eternity 
without  begiiming  of  days  or  end  of  years. 
The  keys  have  to  be  brought  from  heaven 
whenever  the  Gospel  is  sent. 

In  Section  121,  Verse  36,  of  the  Doc- 
trine &  Covenants,  to  confirm  the  above 
statements,  the  Lord  declared: 

That  the  rights  of  the  priesthood  are 
inseparably  connected  with  the  powers  of 
heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of  heaven  can- 
not be  controlled  nor  handled  only  upon 
the  principles  of  righteousness. 

The  priesthood  is  that  which  places 
a  man  in  condition  to  receive  the  minis- 
tration of  angels  and  to  enjoy  the 
presence  of  God  the  Father  and  his  son 
Jesus  Christ,  which  substantiates  the 
declaration  of  the  former  apostle,  John 
the  Beloved,  when  he  declared: 

And  this  is  life  eternal  that  they  might 
know  thee,  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus 
Christ  whom  thou  hast  sent  (John  17:3.) 

Brethren,  this  is  a  new  day — ^the  day 
of  which  the  Apostles  of  old  spoke  when 
they  prophesied  a  time  of  great  refresh- 
ing would  come  when  there  would  be  a 
restoration  of  all  things  before  the  second 
coming  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world. 
Does  all  of  this  mean  anything  to  you 
and  to  me?  My  beloved  bretmen  who 
hold  the  priesthood  must  realize  that 
the  joy  of  which  Lehi  spoke  is  the  joy 
of  service  in  the  Lord's  work;  the  joy  of 
contributing  to  the  salvation  of  the  souls 
of  our  Heavenly  Father's  dbildren;  the 
joy  of  rendering  service  when  called 
upon  by  those  who  preside  over  us  and 
furthering  the  work  of  the  Lord — his 
work  to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man;  and  the  jc^ 
in  sustaining  those  who  preside  over 
us. 

Today  in  the  stakes  of  the  Church, 
there  are  156,000  men  endowed  with 
the  authority  of  the  Holy  Melchizedek 
Priesthood,  the  priesthood  after  the 
order  of  the  Son  of  God,  and  129,000 
holding  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  or  a 
total  of  285,000  sons  of  God  holding 
divine  authority — ^the  most  precious  gift 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


that  has  ever  been  bestowed  upon  man- 
kind. 

The  membership  of  the  Church  in 
stakes  only  is  1,034,000  of  whom  28% 
hold  either  the  Melchizedek  or  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood.  By  the  way  of 
comparison,  the  largest  church  in  the 
United  States  with  a  membership  of 
29,407,000  has  but  45,000  members  au- 
thorized to  participate  in  the  rituals  of 
the  Church  and  to  carry  on  its  work, 
which  indicates  that  1.5%  of  the  total 
membership  as  against  28%  of  the  mem- 
bership of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  enjoy  the  privilege 
of  service. 

One  of  the  greatest  evidences  of  the 
divine  origin  of  this  great  Church  and 
its  priesthood  lies  in  the  fact  that  every 
male  member  of  the  Church  over  the 
age  of  twelve  who  is  worthy  may  hold 
the  priesthood  of  God  and  function 
therein.  The  bestowal  of  divine  au- 
thority upon  so  many  of  the  Lord's  sons 
is  an  evidence  that  our  Heavenly  Father 
is  no  respecter  of  persons.  Station  in  life 
and  wealth  make  no  difference.  Faith 
in  him  and  the  gospel  of  salvation  and 
obedience  thereto  wherein  men  live 
lives  that  are  compatible  with  the  wishes 
of  our  Heavenly  Father  qualify  men  to 
hold  the  priesthood.  Priesthood  privi- 
leges, powers  and  service  are  not  in  the 
hands  of  a  few.  All  of  these  blessings 
are  not  for  the  General  Authorities, 
stake  authorities  or  bishoprics,  but  for 
every  worthy  holder  of  the  priesthood. 
After  all,  salvation  is  an  individual 
matter,  and  priesthood  service  in  the 
cause  of  the  Savior  contributes  to  salva- 
tion and  exaltation  in  the  Celestial 
Kingdom.  Brigham  Young  makes  this 
point  very  clear  in  the  following 
declaration: 

The  Gospel  of  salvation— The  Priesthood 
of  the  Son  of  God — is  so  ordered  and  organ- 
ized, in  the  very  nature  of  it,  being  a  portion 
of  that  law  of  heaven  by  which  worlds  are 
organized,  that  it  is  calculated  to  enlighten 
the  children  of  men  and  give  them  jxiwer 
to  save  themselves. 

Continuing  with  another  statement. 
President  Brigham  Young  stated: 


The  Gospel  and  the  Priesthood  are  the 
means  he  employs  to  save  and  exalt  his 
obedient  children  to  the  possession  with 
him  of  the  same  glory  and  power  to  be 
crowned  with  crowns  of  glory,  immortality 
and  eternal  lives. 

This  is  the  joy  of  which  Lehi  spoke: 
"Men  are  that  they  might  have  joy," 
and  the  highest  degree  of  joy  will  only 
be  found  in  the  presence  of  God  the 
Eternal  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ 
and  to  share  his  glory  with  him. 

Some  of  our  brethren  who  hold  the 
priesthood  and  have  within  their  grasp 
all  of  the  blessings  and  privileges  prom- 
ised to  the  faithful  have  laid  aside  the 
opportunity  of  service  and  for  some 
reason  or  another  have  become  indif- 
ferent and  thereby  forgotten  the  cove- 
nants they  made  with  the  Lord  when 
they  received  the  priesthood.  In  the 
108th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  &  Cove- 
nants, Verse  3,  the  Lord  very  implicitly 
reminds  us  of  our  priesthood  covenants 
when  he  declared: 

And  arise  up  and  be  more  careful 
henceforth  in  observing  your  vows,  which 
you  have  made  and  do  make,  and  you  shall 
be  blessed  with  exceeding  great  blessings. 

No  individual  who  holds  either  the 
Aaronic  or  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood 
has  received  it  but  what  they  were  asked 
the  question  as  to  whether  or  not  they 
would  be  faithful  and  true  and  to  keep 
themselves  sweet  and  tmspotted  from 
the  sins  of  the  world,  and  to  render 
whatever  service  may  be  required. 

To  those  who  are  active  in  the  priest- 
hood, the  Lord  has  admonished  us  in 
the  108th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  & 
Covenants,  the  7th  Verse,  as  follows: 

Therefore,  strengthen  your  brethren  in  all 
your  conversation,  in  all  your  prayers,  in 
all  your  exhortations,  and  in  all  your  do- 
ings. 

This  places  squarely  upon  the 
shoulders  of  all  of  us  the  responsibility 

to  strengthen  those  who  may  be  weak 
in  the  spirit  of  tolerance,  patience,  and 
love. 

As  I  think  of  our  inactive  brethren,  I 
feel  that  they  are  to  isome  degree  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  3 

"Forgotten  Men."  Might  I  ask  you  the 
question,  "What  have  you  done  to  en- 
courage and  stimulate  the  indifferent 
young  men  or  older  men  to  activity  in 
the  Church?"  This  should  be  the  time 
to  take  an  individual  inventory  of  your 
attitude  and  my  attitude  toward  our 
brethren.  These  men  are  not  problem 
men,  but  they  are  men  vs'ith  a  problem. 
Neither  are  they  marked  men,  nor  are 
they  to  be  stigmatized,  but  rather  your 
responsibility  and  mine  is  to  find  solu- 
tions to  their  problems.  We  must  never 
forget  that  the  Priesthood  is  a  Divine 
Brotherhood,  and  the  Divine  Brother- 
hood of  God  should  radiate  love,  good 
will  and  helpfulness  to  all. 

There  are  no  deficiencies  in  the  priest- 
hood organization  as  the  Lord  has  re- 
vealed it  to  us,  but  there  may  be  some 
deficiencies  in  those  of  us  who  fail  to 
carry  out  the  plan  of  the  priesthood  in 
being  our  brother's  keeper.  Our  breth- 
ren who  are  not  as  interested  as  they 
might  be  have  outstanding  qualities  of 
character,  and  these  qualities  could  well 
be  emulated  by  all  of  us.  Again,  the 
statement  of  Lehi  of  old:  "Adam  fell 
that  men  might  be;  and  men  are,  that 
they  might  have  joy,"  and  the  greatest 
joy  of  all  is  brought  forcibly  to  our 
attention  in  the  18th  Section  of  the 
Doctrine  &  Covenants,  the  15th  Verse: 

And  if  it  so  be  that  you  shoiild  labor  all 
your  days  in  crying  repentance  unto  this 
people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul  unto 
me,  how  great  shall  be  yoiu:  joy  with  him 
in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father! 

And  in  the  16th  Verse: 

And  now,  if  your  joy  will  be  great  with 
one  soul  that  you  have  brought  unto  me 
into  the  kingdom  of  my  Father,  how  great 
will  be  your  joy  if  you  should  bring  many 
souls  unto  mel 

Again,  in  the  spirit  of  kindness, 
tolerance  and  patience  let  us  strive  to  the 
accomplishment  of  bringing  back  into 
the  fold  of  activity  every  member  of 
the  priesthood,  and  that  by  uniting  to- 
gether we  shall  lift  one  another  up  to 
the  full  stature  of  servants  of  God, 


Pint  Day 

even  from  the  deacon  to  the  high 

priest. 

These  past  two  years  due  to  the  un- 
tiring work  of  stake  presidencies,  high 
councilmen,  bishoprics  and  senior 
Aaronic  Priesthood  advisors,  it  has  been 
possible  to  organize  1,581  senior  Aaronic 
Priesthood  quorums  and  groups  consti- 
tuted of  the  following:  826  senior  priests 
quorums,  368  senior  teachers  quorums, 
371  senior  deacons  quorums,  and  16 
mixed  groups.  These  priesthood  quorum 
organizations  require  the  services  of  ap- 
proximately 5,000  of  our  senior  Aaronic 
Priesthood  brethren  to  make  up  the 
presidencies.  This  is  a  most  encouraging 
accomplishment,  but  we  cannot  cease 
our  efforts  upon  this  accomplishment, 
but  we  must  look  forward  to  see  what 
there  is  left  to  be  done. 

In  the  stakes,  there  are  65,000  senior 
members  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  If 
all  of  these  brethren  were  organized 
into  quorums  as  the  Lord  has  indicated 
in  the  107th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  & 
Covenants,  we  would  have  at  least  a 
total  of  5,000  Senior  Aaronic  Priesthood 
quorums.  The  accomplishment  of  this 
will  require  unceasing  effort. 

In  1953.  3,000  senior  members  of  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  were  advanced  to 
the  Melchizedek  Priesthood.  For  this 
accomplishment,  I  would  have  you  know 
we  are  most  grateful,  hut  unfortunately 
there  were  more  of  our  brethren  jomefl 
the  senior  Aaronic  Priesthood  groun 
than  were  advanced  to  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood,  which  brings  me  to  anotlier 
question,  "What  about  our  sons  who 
hold  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  under  the 
age  of  twenty-one— these  wonderful 
young  men  who  Elbert  Hubbard  de- 
clared were  made  of  'Sotil  Stuff  And 
the  most  valuable  "Soul  Stuff"  m  the 
Church  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  are 
these  young  men  horn  in  this  dispensa- 
tion. They  are  the  choice  spirits,  for 
they  have  been  bom  in  most  instances 
under  the  new  and  everlasting  covenant. 
It  causes  us  deep  concern  when  we  find 
that  during  the  year  1953  there  were 
3,332  twenty-year-old  deacons,  teachers 
and  priests  that  within  the  coming  year 
will  become  members  of  the  senior 


BISHOP  ]OSEPH 

Aaronic  Priesthood  group.  This  terse 
statement  tells  a  sad  story.  If  we  were 
to  go  into  the  lives  of  these  young  men, 
out  of  our  investigation,  we  would  find 
that  someone,  either  a  bishop,  a  bishop's 
cotinselor  or  an  Aaronic.  Priesthood 
advisor  has  been  remiss  in  his  duty.  I 
can't  help  but  believe  that  all  of  these 
young  men  have  become  inactive  and 
disinterested  because  they  have  lost 
contact  with  the  Church,  and  we  lose 
contact  with  all  of  these  potential  mem- 
bers of  the  senior  Aaronic  Priesthood  by 
our  failure  to  keep  in  constant  touch 
with  them,  particularly  when  they  are 
inactive  and  indifferent.  There  is  but 
one  solution  to  keep  Aaronic  Priesthood 
members  under  the  age  of  twenty-one 
interested,  motivated  and  active  in  their 
priesthood  work,  and  that  is  through  a 
very  definite  system  of  personal  con- 
tacts. The  Church  has  been  built  up 
on  personal  contacts.  Your  grandfather 
ana  my  grandfather  accepted  the  gospel 
because  of  many  personal  contacts  made 
by  missionaries.  The  contact  system  is 
still  the  most  profitable  and  only  one 
whereby  inactive  and  indifferent  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  can  be  brought  back 
into  the  fold. 

I  should  like  to  relate  a  beautiful 
story  of  one  of  the  great  spiritual  leaders 
of  the  Church,  President  Edward  J. 
Wood,  former  president  of  the  Alberta 
Temple  and  Alberta  Stake.  The  story 
as  related  to  me  by  him  is  as  follows: 

The  bishop  of  his  ward  called  into 
a  special  meeting  some  of  the  brethren, 
and  among  them  was  President  Wood. 
The  bishop  announced  that  the  brethren 
had  been  called  together  to  go  on  a 
special  mission,  and  this  was  the  mis- 
sion: The  bishop  annoimced,  "We  have 
a  group  of  young  men  under  the  age  of 
twenty-one  who  hold  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  who  now  manifest  no  interest 
and  render  no  service.  They  must  be 
brought  back.  Hence,  I  am  calling 
each  one  of  you  brethren  on  a  special 
mission  to  bring  back  one  of  these  boys." 
President  Wood  said,  "I  wondered  at 
first  what  kind  of  a  mission  my  bishop 
was  calling  me  to  perform  when  I  was 
president  of  the  Alberta  Temple  and 


L.  WIRTHLIN  7 

president  of  the  Alberta  Stake  of  Zion, 
but  when  he  made  his  announcement,  I 
gladly  responded  to  the  call.  My  assign- 
ment was  to  visit  a  boy  who  lived  five 
miles  out  of  Cardston.  I  thought  first 
of  the  boy's  family.  I  knew  I  would 
have  to  face  an  indifferent  father  and 
an  indifferent  mother,  and  so  I  decided 
to  invite  him  to  attend  the  ward  Priest- 
hood Meeting  with  me  which  was  held 
on  a  week  night.  I  drove  the  five  miles 
to  the  boy's  home,  and  as  I  anticipated, 
the  father  was  indifferent  and  the 
mother  was  indifferent  saying.  If  our 
son  decides  to  go  to  priesthood  meeting 
with  you  that  is  his  privilege.' "  And 
so  the  president  stated  that  after  a  good 
deal  of  pmuasion  the  boy  reluctantly 
consented  to  go  to  priesthood  meeting. 

During  the  time  it  took  to  drive  the 
five  miles,  what  do  you  suppose  this 
wise  man  talked  about?  Did  he  talk 
about  the  Church?  "No."  Did  he  talk 
about  priesthood?  "No."  Was  he 
critical  of  the  boy  for  his  failijre  to  at- 
tend to  his  priesthood  obligations?  "No." 
But,  he  talked  about  the  things  that  the 
boy  and  all  boys  are  interested  in,  name- 
ly athletics.  He  opened  up  the  subject 
by  telling  the  boy  of  his  own  experi- 
ence when  he  and  his  brother  William 
were  the  champion  bicycle  riders  of  the 
State  of  Utah.  Was  the  boy  interested? 
"Surely,"  for  he,  too,  was  interested  in 
athletics  as  all  boys  are.  The  presi- 
dent of  the  stake,  the  president  of  the 
Temple  brought  himself  down  to  the 
level  of  the  boy  in  being  able  to  look 
through  the  eyes  of  a  boy,  and  with  the 
same  viewpoint,  the  boy  opened  his 
heart  to  President  Wood  and  was  willing 
to  talk  about  his  achievements  in  the 
field  of  athletics. 

Arriving  at  the  chapel.  President 
Wood  asked  the  boy  if  he  would  attend 
his  deacons  meeting,  "Yes,"  he  would. 
Then,  the  president  requested  him  to 
listen  intently  and  to  report  to  him  as 
to  what  had  been  said  and  what  had 
been  done.  After  the  meeting,  it  was 
easy  to  open  up  a  discussion  on  the 
priesthood,  and  as  the  boy  reported  in 
all  frankness  and  forthrightness,  he 
told  the  president  that  he  hadn't  heard 


8 

Saturday,  April  3 

ans^hing  he  liked,  nor  was  there  any- 
thing done  in  the  quorum  meeting  that 
inspired  him.  President  Wood  asked 
him  what  was  wrong,  and  the  boy 
readily  answered,  "The  teacher  was  not 
prepared.  I  knew  he  was  not  prepared 
because  when  the  quorum  opeiied  its 
meeting,  he  handed  the  manual  iBrst  to 
one  boy  and  then  to  another  to  read  a 
paragraph."  He  said,  "I  might  as  well 
of  stayed  home,  I  am  sure  I  would  have 
learned  more."  There  were  no  assign- 
ments made  to  the  deacons,  etiher  for 
passing  the  sacrament  or  gathering  fast 
offerings.  In  fact,  there  was  no  action 
in  the  quorum  meeting,  and  boys  love 
action. 

Arriving  home,  the  president  extended 
another  invitation  to  the  boy  to  attend 
priesthood  meeting.  The  boy  con- 
sented, but  during  the  interim  between 
the  first  meeting  and  the  second,  the 
president  of  the  stake  went  to  the  ad- 
visor of  the  deacons  quorum  and 
pointed  out  to  him  the  reason  why  the 
boys  were  inactive  and  indifferent,  the 
president's  reason  being  that  the  teacher 
was  imprepared,  secondly,  the  president 
of  the. deacons  quorum  was  not  called 
up  to  preside  over  the  quorum,  and 
thirdly,  no  assignments  were  being 
made.  You  can  rest  assured  that  the 
next  week  the  teacher  was  prepared,  the 
presidency  of  the  deacons  quorum 
was  in  its  place  presiding  over  the  meet- 
ing, and  assignments  were  made,  and 
thus  for  six  consecutive  weeks  the  man 
with  the  greatest  amount  of  responsi- 
bility and  work  to  do  made  a  roimd 
trip  of  twenty  miles  to  pick  up  a  deacon 
and  take  him  to  priesthood  meeting.  As 
the  seventh  week  dawned,  the  president 
asked  himself  the  question,  "I  wonder 
if  I  am  accomplishing  anything  in  be- 
half of  this  boy?  Tonight  I  will  make 
a  test  of  my  plan."  In  place  of  driving 
to  the  boy's  home,  the  president  went 
to  priesthood  meeting,  and  soon  the 
fruits  of  the  president's  efforts  were 
manifested,  for  thirty  minutes  late,  the 
deacon  came  in.  At  the  end  of  the 
meeting.  President  Wood  declared,  "I 
received  the  greatest  thrill  of  my  life. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

That  boy  sided  up  to  me  and  placed 
his  hand  in  mine,  looked  me  squarely 
in  the  eye,  and  expressed  his  gratitude 
and  appreciation  for  what  I  had  done 
in  just  two  words  in  boy  language,  'My 
Pal.'" 

Brethren,  that  is  the  solution  to  the 
problem  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  under 
the  age  of  twenty-one  where  they  be- 
come indifferent — "Palship,"  and  may  I 
emphasize  it  is  the  solution.  Palship 
first  means  contacts  with  boys.  It  means 
that  if  you  establish  palship,  you  have 
their  confidence,  good  will,  and  their 
love.  They  will  follow  you  to  the  ends 
of  the  earth  if  necessary.  Yes,  Elbert 
Hubbard  was  right  when  he  declared, 
"Boys  are  made  of  Soul  Stuff,"  and  the 
most  precious  "Soul  Stuff"  in  all  the 
world  is  found  in  the  Church  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  for  herein  are  po- 
tential General  Authorities,  stake  presi- 
dents, and  bishoprics,  and  numerous 
other  future  leaders. 

Yes  brethren,  there  are  some  outstand- 
ing achievements  due  to  the  efforts  of 
you  Aaronic  Priesthood  workers.  It 
affords  me  a  great  thrill  to  announce 
tonight  that  more  than  15,000  young 
men  will  receive  an  Individual  Aaronic 
Priesthood  Award  for  their  faithfulness 
and  service  in  the  priesthood,  for  they 
have  attended  their  sacrament  meetings, 
priesthood  meetings,  have  paid  a  full 
tithing,  have  kept  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
and  met  their  priesthood  obligations 
in  full.  Again,  we  must  not  look  back 
at  what  we  have  done,  but  rather  we 
should  look  forward  and  remember  that 
out  of  a  total  of  63,000  members  of  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  under  the  age  of 
twenty-one,  there  are  still  48,000  who 
have  not  achieved  as  have  the  15,000. 
These  48,000  should  enjoy  that  divine 
thing  that  I  choose  to  call  "palship." 

Brethren,  there  is  but  one  question 
left,  "Are  you  and  I  our  brother's 
keeper?"  The  answer  is  obvious.  The 
priesthood  of  God  is  a  divine  order 
founded  upon  the  love  of  God  tor  his 
sons,  for  God  so  loved  the  world  that 
he  gave  his  only  begotten  son,  and  his 
son  so  loved  the  world  that  he  gave  his 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


9 


life  for  the  redemption  of  all,  and  if  you 
and  I  love  our  neighbors,  as  God  has 
commanded,  as  ourselves,  we  shall  close 
our  priesthood  ranks  and  we  will  gather 
our  brethren  who  may  be  inactive  in  the 
priesthood  to  our  side  and  present  to 
the  world  a  priesthood  solidarity  which 
will  give  all  of  us  the  strength  to  destroy 
the  enemy  of  indifference  and  tempta- 
tion and  criticism,  and  which  will  in- 
spire us  to  be  as  one,  as  are  the  Father 
and  the  Son  one,  and  as  Lehi  declared: 
"Men  are  that  they  might  have  joy," 
and  above  that  and  most  important  of 
all  that  we  shall  be  instrumental  in  the 
Lord's  greatest  work  to  bring  to  pass  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man, 
which  I  humbly  pray  will  be  the  heart- 
felt desire  and  accomplishment  of  all  of 
us,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin: 

Brethren,  the  First  Presidency,  out  of 
their  kindness  and  generosity,  have  per- 
mitted the  Presiding  Bishopric  to  show 
you  a  film  tonight  that  deals  with  the 


procedures  of  the  Adult  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood plan  and  program.  May  I  say  to 
you  that  in  this  film  there  is  a  story  and 
in  the  story  there  is  a  character.  We 
want  you  to  understand  that  while  we 
show  the  extremes  to  which  this  particu- 
lar man  went,  the  purpose  is  to  show 
what  can  be  done  if  we  are  kind  and 
patient,  no  matter  how  far  afield  some 
of  our  brethren  may  go.  This  film  does 
not  intend  to  carry  the  impression  that 
all  of  oiu*  senior  Aaronic  brethreii  have 
gone  as  far  as  this  particular  character 
went. 

(There  was  then  presented  on  a 
screen  a  film  story  entitled  "Come  Back, 
My  Son.") 

The  congregation  and  the  Chorus 
joined  in  singing:  "I'll  Go  Where  You 
Want  Me  To  Go." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  will 
now  speak  to  us. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 
Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


|Y  brethren:  I  hope  that 
you  will  help  me  by  your 
prayers  for  the  few  mo- 
ments that  I  shall  stand 
before  you.  This  is  a 
humbling  experience,  and 
I  am  sure  we  are  all  mellowed  by  that 
powerful  picture  showing  how  one  man 
was  led  back  from  temptation  and  way- 
wardness to  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord. 

In  recent  years  there  has  come  to  be 
a  new  philosophy  which  affirms  that 
the  world  has  been  working  on  the 
wrong  theory  over  the  centuries,  and 
they  say  that  we  must  not  longer  talk 
of  punishments,  but  only  of  rewards. 
You  know,  I  believe  that  there  are  no 
real  punishments  except  those  which 
we  bring  upon  ourselves.  The  felon 
in  the  penitentiary  cell  has  pimished 


himself  by  his  course  of  action  which 
has ,  taken  away  from  him  a  blessing 
with  which  God  endowed  him,  namely, 
his  freedom. 

'  The  Lord  has  laid  down  as  a  part 
ef  the  eternal  plan  great  principles 
which  we  are  to  follow  if  we  are  to 
gain  the  blessings  which  are  predicated 
thereon.  If  we  fail  to  live  those  princi- 
ples and  rules  we  fail  to  get  the  bless- 
ings. The  Lord  does  not  need  to  pun- 
ish, we  punish  ourselves,  we  deprive 
ourselves  of  the  blessings  which  the 
Lord  promised  us. 

And  so  with  these  members  about 
whom  we  have  heard  and  have  seen 
tonight, — they  are  not  punished  by  any- 
body. They  are  just  failing  in  them- 
selves to  enjoy  the  blessings  which 
they  could  enjoy  if  they  lived  as  they 
should.   And  I  should  suppose  that  of 


10 

Saturday^  April  3 

the  ways  in  which,  some  at  least,  might 
be  approached,  one  would  be  from  the 
point  of  view  entirely  of  leading  them 
to  blessings,  not  to  pointing  out  the 
punishments.  For  instance,  the  Word 
of  Wisdom.  Lead  them  to  see  the  bless- 
ing which  sobriety  brings,  the  giving 
up  of  things  which  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
denies.  That  is  the  point.  We  are 
not  enjoying  the  blessings  we  might 
enjoy  by  righteous  living.  It  is  not  a 
question  of  somebody  imposing  punish- 
ments upon  us. 

And  so  through  the  whole  realm  of 
our  activities. 

Now  one  thing  stood  out  tonight,  I 
thought,  in  that  picture:  Here  was  a 
bishopric,  finally  shaken  into  a  realiza- 
tion of  their  duties,  but  the  bishopric 
did  not  undertake  to  do  it  all  alone; 
they  immediately  called  in  help.  You 
know,  it  takes  more  than  three  good 
men  as  a  bishopric  to  make  a  good  ward. 
Three  good  men  may  build  a  good 
ward,  but  they  cannot  do  it  all  by  them- 
selves, and  so  with  a  presidency  of  a 
stake,  so  with  a  presidency  of  a  quorum, 
and  so  with  every  group  of  leaders  in 
the  Church.  They  cannot  do  the  serv- 
ice alone.  They  must  have  the  help  of 
every  man  and  woman  who  serves  under 
their  direction. 

And  that  brings  me  back  to  my  theme 
song — ^this  question  of  unity.  We  shall 
never,  brethren,  get  to  the  place  that 
the  Lord  expects  us  to  go  and  marked 
out  for  us  to  get  to,  save  we  shall  work 
together  in  unison.  We  cannot  each 
one  go  out  by  himself,  along  his  own 
lines,  live  his  own  life,  so  to  speak. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

and  have  this  Church  reach  the  destiny 
which  it  will  reach  if  we  do  cooperate. 

And  I  repeat  to  you  what  I  have  said 
time  and  time  and  time  again  in  these 
Priesthood  meetings,  and  pardon  the 
repetition,  but  I  think  there  is  still 
room  for  some  to  hearken  to  the  sug- 
gestion: We  must  work  together  as  one. 
We  must  follow  our  leaders  and  if  we 
do  I  say  again,  there  are  no  limits  to 
the  things  which,  in  righteousness,  we 
may  accomplish.  Every  man  living  as 
he  should,  cooperating  as  he  should, 
brings,  into  the  ward  or  into  the  quorum 
a  power  against  evil  that  cannot  be 
attained  in  any  other  way. 

Now,  brethren,  I  should  like  to  urge 
you  to  take  to  heart  the  lesson  whiui 
this  picture  has  taught  us  tonight.  Re- 
member the  splendid  instruction  given 
us  by  the  Presiding  Bishop  and  rally 
around  our  leaders,  l^t  them  tell  us 
what  to  do  and  how  to  do  it,  and  then 
so  doing,  we  shall  build  up  in  our 
quorums,  in  our  ward,  in  our  stake,  in 
the  Church,  a  power  for  good,  for 
righteousness  which  Satan  cannot  tesar 
down  and  he  is  on  the  look-out  all  the 
time,  all  the  time,  day  and  night.  Per- 
haps all  of  us,  each  of  us,  can  think  of 
someway  in  which  we  might  help  our 
presiding  officers  and  to  build  up  the 
imity,  tne  standing  together  which  is 
so  essential  to  this  Church. 

May  the  Lord  give  us  this  spirit  of 
imity,  I  himibly  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Stephen  L  Richards  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  now  address  us. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


c  Brethren:  With  the  im- 
■|ri  pressive  presentation 

Wm  which  we  have  witnessed 
"l^q  here  in  this  building  to- 
night,  I   wish   that  all 
assembled  who  are  privi- 
leged by  special  wire  to  hear  this  serv- 
ice might  have  seen  it  also. 


With  President  Clark's  remarks  as 
something  of  a  background  and  justifi- 
cation, I  would  like  to  say  a  few  words 
to  the  priesthood  upon  a  subject  which 
has  been  weighing  upon  my  mind  for 
quite  a  period  of  time.  I  would  like  to 
speak  briefly  on  the  subject  of  justice 
and  mercy.  The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 


PRESIDENT  STEP 

is  founded  on  law,  salutary,  righteous, 
benevolent  law,  established  for  the 
salvation  and  the  blessing  of  humanity. 
For  every  law  given,  there  is  a  penalty 
for  its  infraction.  I  know  of  no  scrip- 
ture where  this  is  more  plainly  stated 
than  by  the  Prophet  Alma:  "Now,  how 
could  a  man  repent  except  he  should 
sin?  How  could  he  sin  if  there  was  no 
law?  How  could  there  be  a  law  save 
there  was  a  punishment?"  (Alma 
42:17.)  The  Savior  himself  declared 
that  he  came  to  fulfill  the  law,  not  to 
do  away  with  it,  but  with  the  law  he 
brought  the  principle  of  mercy  to  temper 
its  enforcement,  and  to  bring  hope  and 
encouragement  to  offenders  for  for- 
giveness through  repentance. 

I  presume  it  has  always  been  a  nice 
question,  and  a  perplexing  one,  to  de- 
termine when  the  demands  of  justice 
are  satisfied  and  the  principle  of  mercy 
takes  over.  To  assist  in  the  determina- 
tion of  this  issue,  we  have  available  to 
us  again  the  words  of  Alma:  "For  be- 
hold, justice  exerciseth  all  his  demands, 
and  also  mercy  claimeth  all  which  is 
her  own;  and  thus,  none  but  the  truly 
penitent  are  saved.  What,  do  ye  sup- 
pose that  mercy  can  rob  justice?  I  say 
unto  you.  Nay;  hot  one  whit.  If  so, 
God  would  cease  to  be  God."  (Alma 
42:24-25.) 

Now  the  Church  of  Christ  is  com- 
missioned with  the  authority  to  interpret 
the  law  and  pass  judgment  on  infrac- 
tions thereof.  This  is  a  heavy  responsi- 
bility, one  which  many  ofiEicers  of  the 
Church  would  forego,  if  they  could 
justify  themselves  in  so  doing.  In  civil 
government  it  is  not  tmcommon  to  hear 
references  to  the  majesty  of  the  law, 
by  which  is  contemplated,  we  may 
assume,  not  only  its  supremacy  and 
binding  force,  but  also  the  deference 
and  respect  which  should  be  shown 
for  it,  and  the  obligation  to  sustain  its 
sovereign  power.  Certainly  this  ap- 
plies with  greater  force  and  extended 
meaning  to  the  majesty  of  divine  law. 
It  is  God's  law.  It  must  be  supported 
and  it  must  be  enforced  to  win  salva- 
tion and  the  respect  of  those  within 
the  Kingdom  and  those  without 


iEN  L  BICHARDS  11 

For  the  maintenance  of  the  law  of 
the  Lord,  judges  have  been  set  up  in 
his  Kingdom,  tribunals  established,  and 
guiding  principles  laid  down  for  the 
administration  of  justice.  Bishops  of 
Wards  have  been  designated  common 
judges  in  Israel,  and  they,  with  their 
counselors,  have  been  delegated  with 
authority  to  deal  with  cases  properly 
coming  under  their  jurisdiction.  Appel- 
late courts,  culminating  in  the  First 
Presidency  of  the  Church,  have  like- 
wise been  designated  by  revelation  hav- 
ing both  appellate  and  original  juris- 
diction. 

With  this  as  a  premise,  I  ask  first 
the  question.  How  can  the  priesthood 
and  ecclesiastical  authority  of  the  Church 
best  discharge  the  responsibility  so  com- 
mitted to  it.  Do  not  "the  judges  in 
Israel"  have  a  compelling  obligation 
to  deal  with  all  cases  of  infraction 
against  the  law,  mercifully  but  justly? 
What  good  to  the  Church,  what  real 
benefit  to  erring  members,  can  come 
from  ignoring  this  obligation  and,  as 
we  sometimes  say,  winking  at  and 
"white-washing"  the  offenders?  Can 
the  judges  thus  help  in  setting  people 
on  the  way  to  repentance  and  forgive- 
ness? 

What  is  repentance,  and  when  does 
it  become  operative  in  the  attainment 
of  forgiveness?  We  all  know  the  an- 
swer. Repentance  consists  first  in  a 
godly  sorrow.  Note  the  term  "godly 
sorrow,"  which  the  scriptures  tell  us 
"worketh  repentance  to  salvation  .  .  . 
but  the  sorrow  of  the  world  worketh 
death."  (II  Cor.  7:10.)  This  godly 
sorrow  is  something  more  than  admis- 
sion after  being  discovered  in  sin,  and 
the  judges  in  Zion  will  do  well  not  to 
confuse  the  two.  Next  after  godly 
sorrow  comes  ccmfession,  whidi  is 
prompted  by  the  inward  sorrow  and 
the  earnest  desire  for  relief  from  the 
suffering  entailed  by  acute  realization 
of  wrong-doing  of  which  we  saw  an 
impressive  illustration  tonight  To 
whom  should  confession  be  made?  To 
the  Lord,  of  course,  whose  law  has  been 
violated.  To  the  aggrieved  person  or 
persons,  as  an  essential  in  making  due. 


12 

Saturday,  April  3 

retribution  if  that  is  necessary.  And 
then  certainly  to  the  Lord's  representa- 
tive, his  appointed  judge  in  Israel,  under 
whose  ecclesiastical  jurisdiction  the  of- 
fender lives  and  holds  membership  in 
the  Kingdom. 

Is  the  offender  justified  in  by-passing 
his  immediate  Church  authority  and 
judge,  and  going  to  those  who  do  not 
know  him  so  well  to  make  his  confession? 
Almost  universally,  I  think  the  answer 
should  be  No,  for  the  local  tribunals 
are  in  position  to  know  the  individual, 
his  history  and  environs  far  better  than 
those  who  have  not  had  close  contact 
with  him,  and  in  consequence  the  local 
authorities  have  a  background  which 
will  enable  them  to  pass  judgment  with 
more  justice,  and  also  mercy,  than  might 
be  reasonably  expected  from  any  other 
source.  It  follows  that  it  is  the  order 
of  the  Church  for  confessions  to  be 
made  to  the  Bishop,  which  entails  heavy 
and  exacting  responsibilities  on  the  part 
of  the  Bishop,  the  first  of  which  is  thai 
every  confession  should  be  received  and 
held  in  the  utmost  confidence.  A  Bishop 
who  violates  such  a  sacred  confidence 
is  himself  guilty  of  an  offense  before 
God  and  the  Church.  Where  it  be- 
comes necessary  to  take  counselors  into 
his  confidence,  as  it  frequently  does,  and 
where  it  is  necessary  to  organize  tri- 
i)unals,  the  Bishop  should  inform  the 
confessor,  and  if  possible  obtain  his 
permission  so  to  do. 

Why  is  confession  essential?  First, 
because  the  Lord  has  commanded  it, 
and  secondly,  because  the  offender  can- 
not live  and  participate  in  the  Kingdom 
of  God,  to  receive  the  blessings  here- 
from, with  a  lie  in  his  heart. 

Now  the  confessed  offender  is  not  left 
without  hope,  for  he  can  obtain  for- 
giveness by  following  the  course  out- 
lined, and  by  forsaking  sins  comparable 
to  that  committed,  as  well  as  all  other 
sin,  and  living  before  the  Church  and 
the  Lord  in  such  manner  as  to  win 
approbation  of  both.  The  offender  who 
has  brought  stigma  and  affront  to  the 
ward,  the  stake  or  the  mission  should 
seek  the  forgiveness  of  those  he  has 
thus  offended.    That  may  be  had  at 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

times  through  the  presiding  authori- 
ties of  the  various  divisions  of  the 
Church.  At  other  times  it  may  be 
appropriate  and  quite  necessary  to  make 
amends  for  public  offenses  and  seek 
forgiveness  before  organizations  of  the 
people.  The  judges  of  Israel  will  de- 
termine this  matter.  And  if  the  judges 
in  the  missions,  the  wards  and  the  stakes 
need  counsel  in  the  matter,  they  know 
where  to  get  it. 

How  may  the  judges  of  Israel  deter- 
mine when  repentance  is  adequate? 
Surely  this  determination  must  rest  with 
the  inspired  discernment  and  discretion 
of  the  judges.  No  specification  of  time 
required  can  be  definitely  made,  but  one 
caution  may  be  wisely  observed.  That 
caution  is  for  a  sufficient  time  to  elapse 
to  permit  a  period  of  probation  for  the 
one  seeking  forgiveness.  This  proba- 
tion serves  a  double  purpose:  First,  and 
perhaps  most  important,  it  enables  the 
offender  to  determine  for  himself 
whether  he  has  been  able  to  so  master 
himself  as  to  trust  himself  in  the  face 
of  ever-recurring  temptation;  and  sec- 
ondly, to  enable  the  judges  to  make  a 
more  reliable  appraisement  of  the 
genuineness  of  repentance  and  worthi- 
ness for  restored  confidence. 

Now  I  well  recognize  that  the  most 
serious  aspects  of  this  whole  matter  re- 
late to  personalities  involved.  I  think  I 
have  never  been  moved  to  greater  com- 
passion than  that  arising  out  of  sym- 
pathy for  the  iimocent  victims  of  a  sin 
committed  by  a  son  or  a  daughter,  a 
father  or  a  mother.  I  am  sure  that  the 
officers  of  the  Church  will  always  be 
susceptible  to  feelings  of  deep  pity  for 
those  who  have  fallen  from  the  path  of 
righteousness  and  for  their  families. 
And  the  question  will  continually  arise 
in  the  future,  as  it  has  done  throughout 
the  past,  how  far  such  considerations 
shall  deter  the  judges  of  Israel  from 
merciful,  kind,  but  just  adjudication  of 
offenses  against  the  laws  of  God.  Long 
ago  I  have  taken  the  position,  with 
which  I  think  my  brethren  accord,  that 
every  case  of  infraction  and  I  speak  now 
of  those  infractions  violative  of  the  laws 
of  God  which  involve  moral  turpitude. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


13 


every  infraction  against  the  laws  of  God 
should  he  dealt  with.  I  do  not  say  how. 
I  leave  that  to  the  inspired  wisdom  of 
the  judges.  Knowingly  permitting  a 
serious  infraction  of  divine  law  to  pass 
unnoticed  is  no  kindness  to  the  offender. 
He  will  never  gain  forgiveness  except 
on  the  terms  the  Lord  has  prescribed, 
and  which  I  have  tried  to  outline. 

And  I  ask  you  as  a  final  question,  How 
can  we  ever  hope  to  maintain  the 
dignity  of  the  Church  and  the  majesty 
of  the  law  of  the  Lord  without  exer- 
cising disciplinary  action  through  the 
tribunals  which  the  Lord  has  set  up. 
So  I  think  I  am  justified  in  calling  upon 
the  Bishoprics,  the  High  Councils,  the 
Stake  Presidencies,  the  Mission  Presi- 
dencies, and  the  officers  of  quorums  to 
be  watchmen  on  the  towers  of  Zion, 
to  guard  and  forewarn  the  people  against 
the  incursion  of  sin,  to  teach  in  plain- 
ness and  without  equivocation  the  law 
of  the  Lord,  to  uphold  the  law,  and 
righteously  and  mercifully  enforce  it 
for  the  blesing  of  our  membership  in 
the  Church  and  all  mankind. 

Now  I  hope,  my  brethren,  that  I  do 


not  seem  too  exacting  in  what  I  have 
laid  before  you.  I  believe  that  it  is 
but  a  kindness  to  our  brethren  and  our 
sisters  throughout  the  Kingdom  of  the 
Lord  to  make  them  understand  these 
principles  which  he  has  laid  down,  and 
I  believe  that  if  we  exercise  the  great 
priesthood  which  has  been  given  to  us 
in  the  manner  in  which  we  should 
exercise  it,  we  shall  accomplish  for  those 
who  offend,  as  well  as  for  the  Church,  a 
great  service.  And  I  ask  the  Lord  to 
bless  us  in  this  great  power  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood,  to  which  tribute  has  been 
paid  here  tonight.  It  is  the  power  of 
God;  it  is  the  direct  delegation  of  his 
authority  for  the  administration  of  his 
work,  and  he  has  selected  his  servant 
who  stands  at  the  head  of  this  King- 
dom to  represent  him,  and  I  know  that 
as  we  follow  his  direction  and  counsel 
and  his  example,  we  will  win  for  our- 
selves his  confidence  and  we  will  win 
the  confidence  of  the  Lord,  and  the 
blessings  which  will  make  us  happy. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you,  my  bretm-en, 
I  humbly  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


PRESIDENT 


|E  HAVE  several  notes  here 
I  that  should  be  considered 
j  by  presiding  officers  in 
stakes  and  wards,  in  addi- 
I  tion  to  those  already  men- 


tioned in  the  message  given 
by  the  Bishopric  and  by  the  counselors 
in  the  Presidency. 

One  of  these  I  will  mention.  The 
others  we  can  carry  over.  Will  the 
presidencies  of  stakes  at  your  quarterly 
conference  please  present  to  the  visiting 
General  Authorities  any  problems  which 
you  have  that  are  current,  or  might  be 
current  within  a  few  days  or  weeks.  Let 
the  Brethren  who  are  on  the  ground 
consider  these  problems  with  you.  It 
may  be  the  reorganization  of  a  bishop- 
ric, the  appointment  of  high  councilmen, 
or  the  reorganization  of  a  high  council. 
Not  infrequently  we  find  before  us 
correspondence  from  stakes  in  which 


VID  O.  McKAY 

quarterly  conference  was  held  just  the 
week  before  our  Thursday  meeting, 
problems  which  should  have  been  taken 
up  with  the  visiting  Brethren. 

If  you  will  follow  that  little  suggestion 
it  will  expedite  matters  in  the  Presi- 
dency's office,  which  are  accumulating. 

As  I  contemplate  the  vast  audience 
of  Priesthood  tonight,  assembled  in  the 
various  places  named  at  the  opening  of 
the  meeting,  and  realize  the  potency 
and  power  of  this  great  body  of  men, 
I  am  overwhelmed.  As  I  sat  in  the 
audience  and  listened  to  the  message 
given  so  impressively  by  the  Bishop- 
ric, and  so  successfully  by  the  men  and 
women  who  produced  that  film,  I  felt 
my  feelings  swell  within  my  breast  as 
to  the  possibility  of  the  good  that  will 
be  done,  and  can  be  done,  by  these 
fifteen  or  twenty  or  twenty-five  thou- 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  3 

sand  men  of  the  Priesthood  who  are 

worshipping  tonight. 

"There's  surely  somewhere  a  lowly  place 

In  earth's  harvest  fields  so  wide, 

Where  I  may  labor  thro'  life's  short  day 

For  Jesus,  the  Crucified; 

So  trusting  my  all  to  Thy  tender  care, 

And  knowing  Thou  lovest  me, 

I'll  do  Thy  will  with  a  heart  sincere, 

I'll  be  what  you  want  me  to  be." 

I  hope  everybody  who  sang  that  verse 
applied  it  to  himself,  and  in  a  way  made 
a  sacred  vow  to  do  better  in  the  future 
than  in  the  past,  and  there  came  to  my 
mind  five  fundamental  virtues  which 
should  be  associated  with  that  will.  I 
will  just  name  them. 

First  is  faith, — faith  in  God  the  Father, 
in  His  Son,  faith  in  our  fellow  men. 

The  second  is  honesty,  a  childish  sin- 
cerity, honest  in  dealing  with  our  fel- 
low men.  It  is  the  foundation  of  all 
character.  If  you  offer  prayer  at  night 
and  you  have  dealt  dishonestly  with 
your  fellows  during  the  day,  I  rather 
think  that  as  the  king  in  Hamlet,  your 
words  fly  up  but  your  thoughts  remain 
below;  but  if  you  have  dealt  honestly, 
the  Lord  will  hear  and  answer  your 
true  feelings. 

The  third  is  loyalty.  It  is  a  wonder- 
ful principle.  A  true  friend  is  loyal. 
Many  acquaintances  are  not,  and  may 
not  be.  Be  loyal  to  the  Priesthood.  Be 
loyal  to  your  wives  and  to  your  families, 
loyal  to  your  friends. 

I  cannot  think  that  the  Spirit  of  God 
will  strive  with  a  man  who  in  any  way 
helps  to  break  up  another  man's  family. 
I  care  not  what  seeming  attraction 
may  be  between  him  and  the  wife  of 
the  other  man.  God  will  withdraw 
his  Spirit  from  such  a  one. 

Do  you  know  that  five  or  six  letters 
that  have  come  just  this  week  from 
broken-hearted  wives  of  some  men  who 
are  disillusioned  with  the  Church  have 
their  origin  in  dishonest  dealings  with 
men,  or  fancied  dishonest  dealings  of 
brethren,  and  three  of  them  from 
broken-hearted  wives  who  are  pleading 
for  something  to  be  said  to  have  their 


First  Day 

husbands  brought  to  recall  what  it 
means  to  be  loyal  to  covenants  made 
in  the  House  of  the  Lord. 

Fourth,  there  springs  from  that  chas- 
tity. All  these  25,000  men,  clean.  That 
means  something  in  this  old  world. 

Fifth,  in  the  heart  of  each  one  a  will- 
ingness, indeed,  a  desire,  to  serve  their 
fellow  men. 

I  will  say  no  more,  but  I  feel  im- 
pressed to  ask  you,  and  all  other  listen- 
ing in  to  repeat  with  me  the  First  Article 
of  Faith,  and  the  Thirteenth  Article  of 
Faith,  and  let  us  say  it  slowly,  and 
think  of  each  word  as  we  say  it. 
You  recall  the  first:  "We  believe  in  God, 
the  Eternal  Father,  and  in  His  Son, 
Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost." 

The  Thirteenth:  "We  believe  in  being 
honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtu- 
ous, and  in  doing  good  to  all  men; 
indeed,  we  may  say  that  we  follow  the 
admonition  of  Paul — We  believe  all 
things,  we  hope  all  things,  we  have  en- 
dured many  things,  and  hope  to  be 
able  to  endure  all  things.  If  there  is 
anything  virtuous,  lovely,  or  of  good  re- 
port or  praiseworthy,  we  seek  after  these 
things." 

Will  you  brethren?  The  first.  (The 
brethren  repeated  the  First  Article  of 
Faith.) 

Thirteenth.  (The  brethren  then  re- 
peated the  Thirteenth  Article  of  Faith.) 

May  inspiration  from  on  high  and  the 
constant  guidance  of  the  Holy  Spirit 
enable  each  of  us  to  accentuate  that 
belief  by  radiating  in  our  daily  lives  the 
ideals  and  principles  of  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  I  earnestly  pray  in  the 
name  of  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Millennial  Chorus  will  now  sing 
"Onward  Christian  Soldiers,"  directed 
by  A.  Burt  Keddington,  after  which 
Elder  Evan  P.  Wright,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  South  African  Mission,  will 
offer  the  closing  prayer. 

The  session  at  10  o'clock  Sunday 
morning  will  be  broadcast  over  Station 
KSL,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


15 


over  14  radio  stations  in  Utah,  Idaho, 
Arizona,  Nevada,  Colorado,  California, 
Oregon,  and  Wyoming,  and  by  10 
television  stations  in  Utah,  Washington, 
Oregon,  California,  Arizona,  and  Colo- 
rado, to  an  estimated  number  of  tele- 
vision receivers  of  3,861,400  people. 

The  Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast  will 
be  from  8  to  8:30  o'clock  tomorrow 
morning.  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 
of  the  First  Presidency  will  be  the 
speaker. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Broadcast  will 
be  from  9  o'clock  to  9:30  tomorrow 
morning.  Those  desiring  to  attend  these 
broadcasts  must  be  in  their  seats  by 
7:50  a.m.  It  is  requested  that  the  audi- 
ence during  the  broadcast  refrain  from 
making  any  disturbing  noise.  Large 
crowds  will  undoubtedly  be  waiting 
outside  the  closed  doors. 

Please  note  this.  We  suggest  and 
eaniestly  plead  with  those  thus  stand- 
ing that  they  be  courteous  when  the 
doors  are  opened  and  considerate  of 
others  in  the  crowd.  Avoid  pushing  or 
crowding,  please.  Let  us  remember  to 
be  courteous  and  considerate  to  others 
who  are  also  standing. 

The  regular  session  of  the  conference 
will  begin  at  10  o'clock. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  Oratorio  will 


be  presented  by  the  Utah  Symphony 
Orchestra  and  the  University  of  Utah 
Combined  Choruses  in  the  Salt  Lake 
Tabernacle  Tuesday  evening  at  8:15 
o'clock. 

I  am  glad  we  have  the  following  esti- 
mates or  coimt: 

Tabernacle  attendance,  over  9,000. 

Assembly  Hall,  over  2,500. 

Barratt  Hall,  over  1,300. 

Estimated  on  the  grounds,  over  1,700. 

Brigham  Young  University  Fieldhouse, 
1,800. 

Ogden  Tabernacle,  860. 

Logan,  470. 

Idaho  Falls,  500. 

Lovell,  Wyoming,  153. 

Bormeville  Stake  House,  611. 

Southeast  Stake  House,  717. 

Mt.  Jordan  Stake  House,  345. 

This  makes  a  total  of  over  20,000 
members  of  the  Priesthood  assembled. 

"Onward  Christian  Soldiers"  will  now 
be  sung  by  the  Chorus,  and  the  benedic- 
tion will  be  offered  by  Elder  Evan  P. 
Wright,  formerly  president  of  the  South 
African  Mission. 


The  Millennial  Chorus  sang  the 
hymn,  "Onward  Christian  Soldiers." 

Elder  Evan  P.  Wright  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETINGS 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 

Columbia  Broadcasting  Company's 
Church  of  the  Air  was  presented  at 
8:00  a.m.,  Sunday,  April  4,  1954.  The 
program  as  presented  was  as  follows: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  di- 
rection of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  furnished 
the  music  for  this  service,  with  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ.  Richard  L. 
Evans  was  the  annoimcer. 

Music:  Organ  and  humming  choir: 
"Sweet  Is  the  Work." 

Announcer:  The  Church  of  the  Air 
is  presented  by  CBS  Radio  so  that  men 
of  many  faiths  may  speak  to  a  nation- 


wide audience.  Today's  service  comes 
to  you  from  the  "Mormon"  Tabernacle 
on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
through  the  facilities  of  Station  KSL. 
The  speaker  will  be  President  J.  Reuben 
Clark,  Jr.,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First 
Presidency  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  Music  will  be  by 
the  Tabernacle  Choir,  directed  by  J. 
Spencer  Cornwall.  Frank  Asper  is  at  the 
organ. 

The  Choir  first  sings  a  paraphrase  of 
Psalm  13,  with  the  worshipful  music 
of  George  Frederick  Handel:  "Father,  O 
hear  me!  .  .  .  In  mercy  hear  me  and 
turn  not,  O'  Father,  from  me." 


16 

Sunday,  April  4 

(The  Choir  sang,  "Father,  O  Hear 
Me." — ^Handel-Christiansen. ) 

Announcer:  We  continue  this  service 
with  a  sacred  song  by  Evan  Stephens: 
"Hohness  Becometh  the  House  of  the 
Lord." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Holiness  Becometh 
the  House  of  the  Lord." — Stephens.) 

Announcer:  We  shall  now  hear  on  this 
Church  of  the  Air  Service  President  J. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  of  the  First  Presidenqr 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  frequently  referred  to  as  the 
"Mormon"  Church.  President-Clark  has 
had  a  distinguished  career  as  a  lawyer 
and  public  servant,  and  was  formerly 
United  States  Ambasador  to  Mexico,  and 
former  Under-secretary  of  State.  He  has 
titled  today's  talk:  "Jesus,  Our  Risen 
Lord." 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


IHROUGH  the  resurrection  of 
Christ,  resurrection  shall 
come  to  every  mortal  bom 
to  the  earth,  each  in  his  own 
due  time,  thus  redemption 
j  from  the  Fall  will  be  tini- 
versal.  Through  obedience  to  the  com- 
mandments of  Christ's  Gospel,  an  exal- 
tation in  the  Kingdom  of  God  may  be 
also  attained  by  every  mortal. 

These  are  the  glorious  and  eternal 
truths  which  this  Easter  Time  brings 
vividly  and  with  consolation  to  our 
troubled  minds  and  fearsome  hearts. 

While  the  Disciples  did  not  under- 
stand Christ's  resurrection  till  after  the 
event,  yet  the  record,  read  in  the  light 
of  the  full  plan,  is  perfectly  clear. 

Centuries  before,  the  Psalmist  gave 
us  in  outline,  the  horrors  of  body  and 
mind  of  a  crudfbdon  and  foretold  the 
actual  outcry  of  Christ  on  the  cross,  as 
in  the  very  extreme  of  mortal  agony 
and  of  hopeless  despair,  he  exclaimed: 
"My  God,  my  God,  why  hast  thou  for- 
saken me?"  (Psalm  22:1;  Matthew 
27:46;  Mark  15:34.) 

Jesus,  himself,  predicted  his  death 
and  resurrection  time  and  again  as  he 
went  about  his  mission. 

At  the  time  of  the  Second  Passover, 
Jesus,  preaching  to  the  multitude,  said: 
"Marvel  not  at  this:  for  the  hour  is 
coming,  in  the  which  all  that  are  in 
the  graves  shall  hear  his  voice,  and 
shall  come  forth;  they  that  have  done 
good,  unto  the  resurrection  of  life;  and 
they  that  have  done  evil,  unto  the  resur- 


rection of  damnation."  (John  5:28-29.) 

Mark  tells  us  that  at  Caesarea 
Philippi,  "he  began  to  teach  them,  that 
the  Son  of  man  must  suffer  many  things, 
and  be  rejected  of  the  elders,  and  of  the 
chief  priests,  and  scribes,  and  be  killed, 
and  after  three  days  rise  again.  And 
he  spake  that  saying  openly."  Matthew 
makes  essentially  the  same  record  of  that 
occasion.  Speaking  to  the  Disciples 
shortly  thereafter,  Jesus  gave  them  the 
same  message.  (Mark  8:31-32;  Matthew 
16:21;  Luke  9:22.) 

Matthew  tells  us  that  following  the 
Third  Passover,  while  they  still  abode 
in  Galilee,  Jesus  again  declared  his 
resurrection,  and  Mark  adds,  "But  they 
understood  not  that  saying,  and  were 
afraid  to  ask  him,"  while  Luke  tells 
us  that  they  understood  not,  "and  it  was 
hid  from  them,  that  they  perceived  it 
not."  (Matthew  17:22-23;  Mark  9:31-32; 
Luke  9:43-45.) 

While  the  Disciples,  so  told  time 
and  time  again,  "perceived  it  not," 
the  people  and  the  scribes  and  chief 
priests  and  all  the  rest  knew  about  it, 
for  he  spoke  "openly." 

In  the  temple  precincts  on  the  third 
day  of  the  final  week,  as  the  last  hours 
were  pressing  upon  him  with  their  in- 
finite responsibility,  Jesus  prayed: 
"Father,  save  me  from  this  hour:  but 
for  this  cause  came  I  unto  this  hour. 
Father,  glorify  thy  name."  An  answer- 
ing voice  from  heaven  declared:  "I  have 
both  glorified  it,  and  will  glorify  it 
again" — some  hearing  thought  it  thun- 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  ]R. 


17 


dered,  others  that  an  angel  spoke.  Only 
Jesus  understood.  So,  as  he  awaited 
the  coming  of  Judas  and  the  soldiers, 
in  that  agony  of  infinite,  anxious,  fear- 
ful responsibility  which  all  but  over- 
powered him,  he  cried  out:  "O  my 
Father,  if  it  be  possible,  let  this  cup  pass 
from  me:  nevertheless  not  as  I  will,  but 
as  thou  wilt."  (John  12:27-29;  Matthew 
26:39.) 

But  he  made  many  less  direct  declara- 
tions regarding  his  resurrection,  as  the 
one  at  the  Last  Supper  where  he  told 
his  Disciples  that  after  he  left,  the 
Father  would  send  the  Comforter,  the 
Holy  Ghost.  (John  14:18,  26.) 

Jesus  left  no  room  for  doubt  that  he 
was  to  be  slain  and  then  resurrected, 
yet  it  was  hid  from  the  Disciples. 

The  resurrection  of  Christ  has  been 
challenged  from  the  very  hour  he 
stepped  forth  from  the  tomb  in  the 
early  morning  of  that  day  of  days,  nine- 
teen and  a  half  centuries  ago. 

Recalling  those  predictions  of  his 
resurrection  whidi  he  made  openly,  the 
chief  priests  and  Pharisees,  after  Christ's 
burial,  besought  Pilate  to  place  guards 
at  the  tomb,  "lest  his  disciples  come 
by  night,  and  steal  him  away,  and  say 
unto  the  people.  He  is  risen  from  the 
dead:  so  the  last  error  shall  be  worse 
than  the  first.  Pilate  said  unto  them. 
Ye  have  a  watch:  go  your  way,  make 
it  as  sure  as  ye  can.  So  they  went,  and 
made  the  sepulchre  sure,  sealing  the 
stone,  and  setting  a  watch."  (Matthew 
27:62-66.) 

But  the  eternal  plan  of  God  was  not 
to  be  frustrated.  In  the  early  morning 
hours,  before  it  was  light,  an  angel  with 
a  countenance  like  lightning,  descended 
from  heaven,  rolled  back  and  sat  upon 
the  stone  with  which  the  chief  priests 
and  Pharisees  had  sealed  the  sepulchre. 
"And  for  fear  of  him  the  keepers  did 
shake,  and  became  as  dead  men."  Re- 
covering from  their  stupor,  they  hastened 
to  the  city,  "and  shewed  unto  the  chief 
priests  all  the  things  that  were  done," 
who  gave  the  keepers  "large  money"  to 
hold  their  tongues  as  to  the  real  events, 
and  to  spread  the  lie  that  'the  disciples 


came  by  night,  and  stole  him  away 
while  they  slept.'  (Matthew  28:1-4,  11- 
13.) 

From  that  hour  of  that  morning  till 
now,  Satan  has  persuaded  heretics  to 
deny  the  Christ  and  his  resurrection. 

As  the  watch  went  to  report  to  their 
masters,  Mary  Magdalene  (who  had 
already  been  to  the  empty  tomb  "when 
it  was  yet  dark"),  and  Mary,  the  mother 
of  James,  and  Salome,  with  some  women 
from  Galilee,  had,  at  sunrise,  fearfully 
entered  the  empty  sepulchre,  where  two 
angels  stood  beside  them,  clothed  in 
white,  shining  garments.  One  spoke  to 
them,  saying:  "Why  seek  ye  the  living 
among  the  dead?  Ye  seek  Jesus  of 
Nazareth,  which  was  crucified.  He  is 
not  here,  but  is  risen  ...  go  quickly,  and 
tell  his  disciples  that  he  is  risen  from 
the  dead;  and,  behold,  he  goeth  before 
you  into  Galilee;  there  shall  ye  see 
him:  lo,  I  have  told  you."  (John  20:1; 
Matthew  28:1,  5-7;  Mark  16:1-7;  Luke 
24:1-6.) 

The  reports  of  the  women  seemed  to 
the  disciples  as  idle  tales,  and  believed 
not. 

Thus  was  annotmced  to  the  Disciples 
and  his  followers  the  resurrection  of  the 
risen  Christ.  Complete  was  the  vicari- 
ous atonement  of  the  Son  of  God  for  the 
Fall  of  Adam. 

On  that  same  day  of  the  resurrection, 
the  risen  Christ  appeared  to  Mary,  to 
the  women  at  the  tomb,  to  Peter,  to 
the  two  Disciples  journeying  to  Em- 
maus,  and  in  that  evening  to  all  the 
Disciples  except  Thomas;  a  week  later 
to  all  the  Disciples  including  Thomas; 
later  still  on  the  shores  of  the  Sea  of 
Tiberias,  to  Peter  and  those  who  had 
also  gone  fishing;  and  afterward  to  some 
five  hundred  of  the  brethren  at  once, 
and  to  James;  then  to  the  living 
Disciples  at  a  mountain  in  Galilee  by 
appointment  by  the  Christ;  and  lastly 
to  the  Disciples  at  the  ascension. 

Thus  was  the  resurrection  currently 
witnessed  by  the  Apostles  and  other  fol- 
lowers of  Jesus,  the  Carpenter  of 
Nazareth,  the  Son  of  God,  the  Christ. 

This  Church  of  ours  accepts  all  the 


18  GENERAL  ( 

Sunday,  April  4 

foregoing  as  the  literal  facts  pertaining 
to  the  resurrection;  none  is  symbolism, 
none  is  allegory.  These  things  are  the 
warp  and  the  woof  of  the  Restored 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  They  admit  of 
no  questioning,  amongst  us  they  are  not 
questioned.  That  they  are  true  is  our 
testimony  to  the  world. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  accepts  Jesus,  the  Christ,  at 
his  own  estimate  when  he  proclaimed 
his  Godhood  to  the  Jews  on  the  temple 
grounds  at  Jerusalem:  "Before  Abra- 
ham was,  I  am";  when  he  petitioned 
in  the  great  intercessory  prayer:  "O 
Father,  glorify  thou  me  with  thine  own 
self  with  the  glory  which  I  had  with 
thee  before  the  world  was."  (John 
8:58;  17:5.) 

In  modern  revelation,  Jesus,  the 
Christ,  has  over  and  over  again  de- 
clared himself  in  the  same  language. 

This  is  the  Jesus,  the  Christ,  to  which 
we  of  this  Church  yield  full  and  com- 
plete allegiance,  unmarred  by  rationaliz- 
ing, by  any  derogation  as  to  his  divine 
personality,  his  work  among  men,  his 
vicarious  sacrifice  for  their  sins,  his 
membership  in  the  Holy  Trinity. 

Final  peace  will  come  into  this  bloody 
world  only  when  Jesus  and  his  teachings 
shall  rule  the  world. 

The  great  mission  of  this  Church  is 
to  proclaim  Christ  and  him  crucified 
and  his  Gospel.  This  should  be  the 
message  that  all  Christendom  declares. 

That  Jesus  of  Nazareth  was  the  Christ, 
the  Son  of  God,  the  First  Fruits  of  the 
Resurrection,  the  Redeemer  of  the 
World,  a  member  of  the  Trinity,  is  the 
testimony  which  I  humbly  give,  in  his 
name.  Amen. 


(The  Choir  sang:  "The  Voice  of  God 
is  Heard  Again."--Stephens.) 

(Organ  Selection:  "God  Moves  in  a 
Mysterious  Way." — Bradbury.) 

Announcer:  From  the  Choir  we  have 
heard  one  of  the  hymns  of  Evan 
Stephens:  "The  voice  of  God  again  is 
heard.  The  silence  has  been  broken,  The 
curse  of  darkness  is  withdrawn.  The 
Lord  from  heaven  hath  spoken." 


Second  Day 

And  now  in  closing  the  Choir  sings 
a  worshipful  hymn  by  Haydn:  "O  wor- 
ship the  King  all  glorious  above,  and 
gratefully  sing  His  wonderful  love." 

(The  Choir  then  sang:  "O  Worship 
the   King." — ^Hayden-Cornwall.) 

(Organ  Selection:  "Softly  Now  The 
Light  of  Day." — ^von  Weber.) 

Music:  Organ  and  Hvimi;ning  choir: 
"Sweet  Is  the  Work." 

Announcer:  You  have  been  attending 
CBS  Radio's  Church  of  the  Air.  Today's 
service  came  to  you  from  the  "Mormon" 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  through 
the  facilities  of  Station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah.  The  speaker  was  President 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

Music  was  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  J. 
Spencer  Cornwall  conducting,  with 
Frank  Asper  at  the  organ. 

CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  was  presented  from  9:00  to  9:30 
a.m.  Sunday,  April  4,  through  the 
courtesy  and  facilities  of  the  Columbia 
Broadcasting  System's  network,  through- 
out the  United  States.  The  broadcast 
was  as  follows: 

(The  organ  played  "As  the  Dew,"  and 
on  signal  the  Choir  and  Organ  broke 
into  the  hymn,  "Gently  Raise,"  singing 
the  words  to  the  end  of  the  second  line, 
and  humming  to  end  of  verse  for  an- 
nouncer's badkground.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  within  these  walls  with  music  and 
the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads  of 
the  West. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  and  its 
affiliated  stations  bring  you  at  this  hour 
another  presentation  from  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with  J. 
Spencer  Cornwall  conducting  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  Frank  Asper,  Taber- 
nacle Organist  and  the  spoken  word  by 
Richard  Evans. 

The  Choir  first  sings  a  worshipful  song 


THE  SPOKEN  WORD 


19 


from  the  writings  of  Randall  Thompson: 
"Alleluia." 

(The  Caioir  sang:  "Alleluia."— Thomp- 
soii.) 

Announcer:  Frank  Asper  moves  now 
into  a  majestic  theme  from  the  Psalm 
settings  of  Benedette  Marcello:  "The 
Heavens  Declare  the  Glory  of  God,  and 
the  firmament  showeth  His  handiwork" 

(Organ  selection:  "Psalm  XVUI." 
— ^Marcello.) 

Announcer:  The  Choir  next  sings  a 
sacred  song  with  words  and  music  by 
Will  James:  "Jesus,  our  Lord,  we  adore 
Thee,  Jesus,  our  crucified  Savior." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Jesus,  Our  Lord." 
— ^James.) 

Announcer:  Frank  Asper  turns  now  to 
the  devotional  quality  and  character  of 
ah   18th  Century  Italian  "Aria"  by 

Tenaglia,  as  arranged  by  Philip  James. 

(Organ  selection:  "Aria." — ^Tenaglia- 
James.) 

Announcer:  From  the  "Elijah"  by 
Mendelssohn  comes  the  music  of  this 
sacred  song  with  words  selected  from 
the  Old  Testament  texts:  "Ohl  That  I 
knew,  where  I  might  find  Him,  Oh  that 
I  might  even  come  before  His  presence. 
...  If  with  all  your  hearts  ye  truly 
seek  me.  Ye  shall  ever  surely  find  me. 
Thus  saith  our  God." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "If  With  All  Your 
Hearts." — ^Mendelssohn ) 

Announcer:  We  often  see  the  familiar 
picture  of  parents  and  teachers  pleading 
with  young  people  to  improve  them- 
selves, to  learn  their  lessons,  to  make  the 
most  of  their  lives.  And  because  of  this 
sincere  anxiety  on  the  parts  of  parents, 
yoimg  people  may  sometimes  assume  that 
they  are  doing  teachers  or  parents  a  favor 
by  learning  their  lessons,  by  improving 
their  lives.  In  one  sense  this  is  true. 
It  is  true  that  much  of  the  measure  of 
a  parent's  success  and  satisfaction  is 
found  in  the  soundness  and  happiness 
and  success  of  his  children.  It  is  true 
that  much  of  a  teacher's  success  is  foimd 
in  the  lessons  that  his  students  learn. 
But  in  another  sense,  it  is  a  peculiar 


paradox  that  parents  or  teachers  should 
so  much,  so  long,  so  patiently  have  to 
plead  with  young  people  to  make  good 
use  of  their  lives — for  every  effort  they 
make,  all  the  knowledge  they  acquire, 
every  lesson  they  learn  is  for  their  own 
everlasting  advantage.  And  in  doing 
what  they  should  do  and  in  learning 
what  they  should  learn,  they  are  doing 
a  favor  for  themselves.  Leaving  for 
the  moment  the  matter  of  prodding  and 
persuading  young  people,  may  we  look 
briefly  at  another  side  of  the  subject: 
Sometimes  we  may  think  that  we  have 
done  someone  else  a  special  favor  if  we 
live  according  to  law.  Sometimes  we 
may  think  we  are  doing  the  Lord  God 
a  special  favor  if  we  keep  His  com- 
mandments. And  it  is  true  that  it  would 
please  Him  to  have  us  do  so,  for  His  de- 
clared purpose  is  "to  bring  to  pass  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man," 
(Pearl  of  Great  Price:  Moses  1:39)  to 
bring  to  pass  the  happiness,  and  peace 
and  everlasting  progress  of  His  children. 
For  this  cause  were  the  commandments 
given,  and  for  this  cause  has  He  patiently 
repeated  them  through  His  servants  the 
prophets.  But  in  keeping  them,  we  serve 
first  ourselves — no  matter  what  we  may 
do  for  others  besides  ourselves.  And  in 
breaking  them  we  do  injury  to  ourselves, 
no  matter  what  we  may  do  to  others 
besides  ourselves.  It  is  a  great  virtue  to 
love  and  to  please  parents;  it  is  a  sin- 
cere satisfaction  to  a  teacher  to  see  a 
lesson  learned;  and  it  is  good  to  keep 
the  commandments  for  the  approving 
favor  of  our  heavenly  Father.  But  in 
all  this  pleasing  of  others,  in  all  this 
learning  of  lessons,  in  all  this  keeping 
of  commandments,  we  do  immeasurable 
service  for  ourselves.  And  others 
shouldn't  have  to  plead  with  us  so 
much  or  labor  with  us  so  long  to  per- 
suade us  to  do  what  we  ought  to  be 
anxiously  doing. 

(The  Choir  then  sang:  "Praise  to 
the  Lord.") 

Announcer:  We  have  heard  a  hymn 
from  the  17th  century,  with  words  by 
Joschine  Neander:  "Praise  to  the  Lord, 
the  Almighty,  the  King  of  Creation.  O. 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  4 

my  soul,  praise  Him,  for  He  is  thy 
health  and  salvation." 

And  now  Frank  Asper  turns  to  a  hymn 
melody  by  Robert  Lowry,  which  has  be- 
come inseparably  identified  with  these 
cherished  words  of  the  h3Tiin  by  Annie 
S*  Hawkes:  "I  Need  Thee  Every  Hour, 
Most  gracious  Lord;  No  tender  voice 
like  thine  can  peace  afford.  .  .  .  Stay 
thou  nearby;  Temptations  lose  their 
power  when  thou  art  nigh.  I  need  thee; 
O  I  need  thee;  Every  hour  I  need  theel 
O  bless  me  now,  my  Savior;  I  come  to 
Thee!" 

(Organ  selection:  "I  Need  Thee  Every 
Hour." — Lowry.) 

Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
closes  with  a  brief  and  delicately  echoing 
anthem  of  exhortation  by  L.  Stanley 
Glarum  with  words  from  the  47th 
Psalm:  "Sing  Praises  unto  Our  King, 
for  God  is  King  o'er  all  the  earth." 


Second  Day 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Sing  Praises." 

— Glarum.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  leave  you 
within  the  shadows  of  the  everlasting 
hills.  May  peace  be  with  you,  this  day — 
and  always. 

This  concludes  the  twelve  hundred 
and  eighty-fifth  presentation,  continuing 
the  25th  year  of  this  traditional  broad- 
cast from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square,  brought  to  you  by  CBS 
Radio  and  its  affiliated  stations,  originat- 
ing with  Radio  Station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake 
city. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducted  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  with  its  three  hundred 
seventy-five  singing  voices.  Frank 
Asper  was  at  the  organ.  The  spoken 
word  by  Richard  Evans. 

In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 
hour,  music  and  the  spoken  word  will 
be  heard  once  more  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 


SUNDAY  MORNING  GENERAL  CONFERENCE  SESSION 


The  Simday  morning  session  of  the 
General  Conference  convened  promptly 
at  10:00  a.m.,  with  President  David  O. 
McKay  presiding  and  conducting  the 
services. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the 
leadership  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  fur- 
nished the  choral  music  for  this  ses- 
sion. Frank  W.  Asper  was  at  the  organ 
console. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

In  solemn  worship  this  beautiful  Sim- 
day  morning,  thousands  are  assembled 
in  the  Tabernacle  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
in  the  Assembly  Hall,  Barratt  Hall, 
and  many  are  gathered  on  the  walks 
and  lawns  of  the  Tabernacle  Grounds 
listening  to  the  service  over  a  public 
address  system.  Other  thousands  are 
listening  in  over  radio  and  television 
stations. 

This  is  the  second  session  of  the  One 
Hundred  and  Twenty-Fourth  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.   The  first  session 


was  not  broadcast.  It  was  a  General 
Priesthood  meeting  held  last  evening 
in  the  Tabernacle,  with  overflow  meet- 
ings in  the  Assembly  Hall,  the  Barratt 
Hall,  and  by  direct  wire  over  a  public 
address  system  to  members  of  the 
Priesthood  assembled  in  the  Bonneville 
Stake  Tabernacle;  Granite  Stake  Taber- 
nacle; Sandy  Amusement  Hall;  Ogden 
Stake  Tabernacle;  George  Albert  Smith 
Fieldhouse  at  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity at  Provo;  the  Church  Institute 
Building  of  the  Utah  State  Agricultural 
College  at  Logan;  South  Idaho  Falls 
Tabernacle,  Idaho  Falls;  Big  Horn  Stake 
Tabernacle,  Lovell,  Wyoming. 

For  your  information  and  interest  we 
should  like  to  say  that  as  nearly  as  the 
ushers  could  count  there  were  assembled 
in  that  Priesthood  Meeting  last  evening 
over  20,000  men  and  boys  who  hold  the 
Priesthood.  Besides  the  showing  of  a 
film  relating  to  the  Senior  Aaronic 
Priesthood  the  speakers  last  evening 
were  Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin  and 
members  of  the  First  Presidency. 


PRESIDENT  D 

The  Millennial  Chorus  under  the  di- 
rection of  Elder  A.  Burt  Keddington 
furnished  the  music,  and  may  I  take 
occasion  now  to  thank  that  group  of 
excellent  singers  because  in  the  rush  last 
evening  I  believe  we  overlooked  express- 
ing to  them  our  appreciation  of  the  excel- 
lent service  rendered. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  was 
the  speaker  on  Columbia's  Church  of  the 
Air  program  this  morning  at  8  o'clock. 

We  are  now  assembled  in  the  second 
session  of  the  One  Hundred  Twenty- 
Fourth  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church.  All  the  General  Authorities 
are  in  attendance.  There  is  one  vacant 
seat  since  last  October,  that  of  Elder 
Matthew  Cowley,  who  passed  away  dur- 
ing the  ceremonies  of  the  laying  of  the 
cornerstone  of  the  Los  Angeles  Temple. 
He  was  of  a  genial  nature,  a  loyal  friend, 
a  great  evangelist,  a  friend  to  man,  a  true 
servant  and  Apostle  of  the  Lord  and 
Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  Elder  Cowley  has 
gone  to  a  rich  reward,  and  received  the 
plaudit,  "Well  done  thou  good  and 
faithful  servant,  enter  into  the  joy  of 
Thy  Lord."  We  miss  him,  but  we  know 
that  he  lives. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  is  clerk  of  the 
Conference. 

These  services  and  all  general  sessions 
of  the  conference  will  be  broadcast  in 
the  Assembly  Hall,  in  Barratt  Hall,  over 
a  public  address  system,  and  by  tele- 
vision, and  you  will  be  interested  in 
this:  the  service  will  also  be  televised 
over  KSL  television,  Channel  5,  and 
over  10  television  stations  in  Washing- 
ton, Oregon,  California,  Arizona,  and 
Colorado  to  an  estimated  number  of 
television  receivers  of  3,861,400. 

The  service  will  likewise  be  heard  over 
Radio  Station  KSL,  and  by  arrangement 
through  KSL  over  14  radio  stations  in 
Utah,  Idaho,  Arizona,  Nevada,  Colo- 
rado, California,  Oregon,  and  Wyoming. 
The  names  of  these  stations  have  al- 
ready been  armounced  to  the  television 
and  radio  audiences.  That  is  what  we 
were  pausing  for  at  the  opening. 

Arrangements  have  also  been  made 
to  have  this  session  broadcast  in  Hawaii 
by  tape  recording  next  Sunday. 


VID  O.  McKAY  21 

We  desire  to  express  our  appreciation 
to  these  various  television  and  radio  sta- 
tions for  their  courtesy  in  making  avail- 
able their  time  and  facilities  for  these 
broadcasts. 

To  the  audience,  those  who  are  as- 
sembled in  person  and  the  thousands 
comprising  the  television  and  radio 
audiences,  the  First  Presidency  and  Gen- 
eral Authorities  extend  a  most  hearty 
welcome,  and  pray  that  our  souls  may 
be  uplifted  and  inspired  by  our  as- 
sembling together  in  this  great  confer- 
ence of  the  Church.   God  bless  you  all! 

I  wish  to  announce  too  that  we  have 
greetings  from  some  of  our  boys  in 
Korea:  "Our  hearts  beat  in  tune  with 
the  membership  of  the  Church  in  sus- 
taining you,  and  with  bowed  heads  we 
pray  for  your  welfare  and  that  of  the 
sons  and  daughters  of  Zion."  LDS  Group 
Chaplain  Herbert  J.  Marsh,  First  Marine 
Division,  Korea. 

Also,  to  the  First  Presidency:  "May 
our  Heavenly  Father's  choicest  blessings 
be  with  you  and  the  membership  of  the 
Church  as  you  assemble  in  General 
Conference."  Signed,  Chaplains  of  the 
Servicemen  and  Korean  members.  First 
Marine  Division  in  Korea. 

We  wish  to  acknowledge  also  the  fol- 
lowing: United  States  Senator  Wallace 
F.  Bennett.  I  have  not  seen  Senator 
Arthur  Watkins.  I  think  he  is  not  here. 
Congressman  William  A.  Dawson.  We 
have  a  message  from  Governor  Lee  wish- 
ing us  success,  and  explaining  that  an 
appointment  out  of  the  city  prevents  his 
being  present.  We  appreciate  his  mes- 
sage. 

We  see  also  present  our  mayor  of  the 
City,  Earl  J.  Glade  and  Seaetary  of  State 
Lamont  Toronto.  We  have  some  special 
visitors  whom  we  bid  welcome  whose 
names  have  not  been  handed  to  me. 

We  have  the  following  educators: 
president  and  deans  of  the  BYU,  Dr. 
Ernest  L.  Wilkinson;  A.  Ray  Olpin,  presi- 
dent of  the  University  of  Utah;  Dr.  Heniy 
Aldous  Dixon,  president  of  the  Utah 
State  Agricultural  College;  Dr.  E.  Allen 
Bateman,  state  superintendent  of  public 
instruction;  Dr.  Lynn  Bennion,  Super- 
intendent of  Salt  Lake  City  schools; 


22 

Sunday,  April  4 

Dr.  William  Miller,  president  of  the 
Weber  College;  Dr.  John  Clarke,  presi- 
dent of  Ricks  College;  Dr.  Lester  B. 
Whetton,  director  of  Snow  College;  Dr. 
Daryl  Chase,  president  of  the  Branch 
Agricultural  College;  and  I  believe.  Dr. 
Howard  McDonald  of  Los  Angeles  State 
College. 

•  Others  whom  probably  we  have  not 
observed  will  please  realize  that  you 
are  welcome  with  these  I  have  named. 

We  have  before  us  also  our  mission 
presidents  from  the  United  States,  Mex- 
ico, Guatemala;  stake  presidents,  coun- 
selors, and  bishoprics.  To  all  we  extend 
a  hearty  welcome  and  express  satisfac- 
tion and  pleasure  in  your  presence  and 
your  cooperative  spirit  in  these  sessions. 

The  Choir  will  furnish  the  music  this 
morning,  with  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  con- 
ducting, and  Elder  Frank  Asper  at  the 
organ. 

The  congregation  will  now  join  the 
Choir  in  singing  "We  Thank  Thee  O 
God  for  a  Prophet,"  and  the  opening 
prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder  Golden 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

L.  Woolf,  formerly  president  of  the 

French  Mission. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined 
in  singing  the  hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee, 
O  God,  for  a  Prophet." 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 
Golden  L.  Woolf,  formerly  President 
of  the  French  Mission. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  looks  so  much 
at  home  in  his  usual  place  among  the 
members  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
that  I  overlooked  formally  aimoundng 
the  presence  of  the  Sedretary  of  Agri- 
culture. We  are  glad  to  have  him  here 
with  us. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing  "Shades  of 
Evening,"  conducted  by  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall. 

Following  the  Choir  singing  we  shall 
hear  from  President  David  O.  McKay. 

Singing  by  the  Choir,  "Shades  of 
Evening." 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


|HE  FOLLOWING  I  take  from  Sec- 
tion 4  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants.    It  was  recorded 
in  1829. 
"Now  behold  a  marvelous 
*  work  is  about  to  come  forth 
among  the  children  of  men. 

"Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the 
service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve  him 
with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and 
strength,  that  ye  may  stand  blameless 
before  God  at  the  last  day. 

"Therefore,  if  ye  have  desires  to  serve 
God  ye  are  called  to  the  work; .  .  . 

"And  faith,  hope,  charity  and  love, 
with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God, 
qualify  him  for  the  work."  (D.  &  C. 
4:1-3;  5.) 

When  that  revelation  was  given  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  he  was  only 
twenty-three  years  of  age.  The  Book 
of  Mormon  was  not  yet  published;  no 
man  had  been  ordained  to  the  priest- 


hood. The  Church  was  not  organized; 
yet  the  statement  was  made  and  written 
without  qualification  that  "...  a 
marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth 
among  the  children  of  men." 

Another  significant  feature  of  this 
revelation,  an^i  others  given  about  the 
same  period,  is  the  naming  of  essential 
qualifications  of  those  who  were  to 
participate  in  the  bringing  about  of  this 
marvelous  work.  These  qualifications 
were  not  the  possession  of  wealth,  not 
social  distinction,  not  political  prefer- 
ment, not  military  achievement,  not 
nobility  of  birth;  but  a  desire  to  serve 
God  with  all  your  "heart,  mind,  and 
strength" — spiritual  qualities  that  con- 
tribute to  nobility  of  soul.  I  repeat:  no 
popularity,  no  wealth,  no  theological 
training  in  Church  government — yet 
a  marvelous  work  was  about  to  come 
forth  among  the  children  of  men. 

Manifestly,  some  higher  power  was 
operating  to  bring  about  this  marvelous 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


23 


work  other  than  mere  human  and  ma- 
terial means. 

In  passing,  it  is  interesting  to  note 
that  about  that  same  period  Robert 
Owen  of  England,  a  man  of  exceptional 
ability,  a  religious  person,  decried  the 
departure  of  the  churches  from  the 
simple  teachings  of  Jesus.  He  was  dis- 
satisfied also  with  economic  conditions 
of  that  time,  for  he  saw  little  children, 
indeed  he  had  some  working  in  his  own 
factories,  who  were  only  eight  and  ten 
years  of  age.  He  introduced  the  law 
which  required  the  prohibition  of  little 
children  from  working  at  night  and 
limited  others  to  ten  hours  a  day.  He 
was  desirous  of  establishing  conditions 
which  would  at  least  ameliorate  some 
of  these  conditions  which  were  almost 
unbearable  in  society  at  that  time. 

He  won  the  confidence  of  leaders, 
and  the  Duke  of  Kent  (Queen  Victoria's 
father)  became  his  patron.  With  a  for- 
tune in  his  hand,  he  came  to  the  new 
world  about  1823.  He  established  what 
he  hoped  would  be  an  ideal  society. 
Within  three  years  he  had  lost  two 
hundred  thousand  dollars,  and  his  ex- 
periment failed. 

Joseph  Smith  had  no  such  royal 
patron,  no  potentially  influential  friends. 
Over  one  hundred  years  have  passed, 
and  the  work  of  the  Church  today 
is  stronger  and  more  flourishing  than 
ever  before. 

This  morning  I  feel  impressed  to 
refer  briefly  to  the  missionary  phase  of 
this  "marvelous  work." 

Recent  visits  to  the  various  missions 
of  the  world  have  impressed  me  more 
deeply  than  ever  with  the  importance 
and  magnitude  of  the  Church,  and 
with  its  responsibility  to  make  more 
potent  the  proclaiming  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

"Go  ye  therefore,  and  teach  all  na- 
tions, baptizing  them  in  the  name  of 
the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the 
Holy  Ghost: 

"Teaching  them  to  observe  all  things 
whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you:  and, 
lo,  I  am  with  you  alway,  even  unto  the 
end  of  the  world."  (Matthew  28:19-20.) 

Such  was  the  charge  given  by  the 


risen  Lord  to  his  authorized  disciples 
over  nineteen  hundreds  years  ago!  Such 
is  the  charge  given  by  the  risen  Lord  to 
his  authorized  servants  today.  In  the 
corresponding  account  given  by  Mark 
the  passage  reads:  "Go  ye  into  all  the 
world,  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every 
creature. 

"He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized 
shall  be  saved;  but  he  that  believeth 
not  shall  be  damned,"  or  condemned. 
(Mark  16:15-16.) 

In  both  these  records  you  will  note 
two  fundamental  messages  are  clearly 
stated: 

First:  The  responsibility  to  proclaim 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  all  the 
world  is  explicitly  given  to  those  who 
were  called  and  ordained  Apostles  of 
the  Lord. 

Second:  The  message  implied  by 
Matthew  and  stated  definitely  by  Mark 
that,  to  use  Peter's  words,  "...  there 
is  none  other  name  under  heaven  given 
among  men,  whereby  we  must  be 
saved."  (Acts  4:12.) 

In  these  passages  are  also  intimated, 
if  not  clearly  stated,  that  there  are  two 
great  divisions  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ.  First  is  the  missionary,  and  the 
second,  organization  for  instruction,  mu- 
tual edification,  and  service. 

Four  conditions  contribute  to  the  in- 
tensifying of  the  thought  or  sense  of 
responsibility  of  the  Church. 

First  of  these  are  modem  means  of 
transportation.  These  have  made  prac- 
tically all  nations  neighbors.  When 
the  Twelve  Apostles  of  old  received 
the  admonition  from  the  Lord  to  go 
into  all  the  world  to  preach  the  gospel, 
they  had,  to  quote  Beverley  Nichols, 
"only  the  wind  to  bear  them  over  the 
seas,  only  a  few  pence  in  their  pockets, 
but  a  shining  faith  in  their  hearts. 
They  fell  far  short  of  their  ideal,  their 
words  were  twisted  and  mocked,  and 
false  temples  were  built  over  their  bones 
in  praise  of  a  Christ  they  would  have 
rejected.  And  yet,  by  the  light  of  their 
inspiration,  many  of  the' world's  loveli- 
est things  were  created,  and  many  of 
the  world's  fihest  minds  inspired." 

Today  "God  has  given  us  the  power 


24 

Sunday,  April  4 

of  whispering  across  space,  of  trans- 
mitting our  thoughts  from  one  end  of 
the  earth  to  another."  Geographical 
conditions  or  distances  are  just  the 
same,  but  in  point  of  time  New  York  is 
as  near  to  the  Church  headquarters  as 
Provo  was  when  President  Brigham 
Young  traveled  by  horses  and  whitetop 
wagon.  London  is  nearer  than  Fill- 
more; South  Africa,  closer  than  St. 
George  1  What  a  marvelous  age  we 
are  living  in! 

Second,  another  condition  that  intensi- 
fies the  importance  and  magnitude  of  the 
Church  in  its  responsibility  to  the  peo- 
ples of  the  world  is  the  willingness  of 
men  and  women  to  consecrate  their 
time,  their  means,  and  their  ability  to 
the  advancement  of  the  kingdom  of 
God.  No  one  can  associate  intimately 
with  mission  presidents  and  with  mis- 
sionaries without  being  filled  with  com- 
mendation and  praise  for  their  sincer- 
ity, their  untiring  energy,  their  concern 
for  their  associates,  and  for  their  im- 
selfish  devotion  to  the  proclamation  of 
peace  and  good  will.  And  the  same  is 
true  of  other  men  in  various  occupations 
and  callings  throughout  the  Church. 

Even  more  worthy  of  admiration, 
meriting  more  highly  the  gratitude  of 
the  many  blessed  by  their  intelligent, 
loving  service,  and  entire  forgetfulness 
of  themselves  are  our  wives  and  mothers. 
The  inestimable  work  they  do  in  the 
missionary  field,  as  in  the  home,  too 
seldom  receives  due  recognition  and 
praise.  I  have  profound  respect,  for 
example,  for  the  mission  president's  wife 
who,  while  showing  her  deepest  tender- 
ness in  helping  her  husband  to  do  his 
duty,  yet  in  her  own  sphere,  by  intelli- 
gent, superb  planning  and  unselfish  serv- 
ice, gives  to  any  habitation  the  true 
spirit  of  home;  and  by  tender  admoni- 
tion and  encouragement,  lightens  the 
heart  of  homesick  elders  with  the  as- 
surance that  they  can  and  will  succeed. 

Third,  the  fulfilment  of  prophecies 
made  over  a  hundred  years  ago  regard- 
ing the  growth  of  the  Church  brings 
forcibly  to  our  minds  the  responsibility 
of  proclaiming  the  truth. 

Let  us  take  a  glimpse  at  what  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Church  has  accomplished  since  its  hum- 
ble beginning  in  1830.  There  have 
been  since  that  time  67,615  missionaries 
set  apart,  at  an  approximate  cost  to 
them  and  their  families  of  $54,500,- 
000.00. 

Within  the  last  fifty  years  the  num- 
ber of  missions  in  the  Church  has 
doubled  from  twenty-one  to  forty-two 
today,  with  1754  branches. 

In  addition  to  what  the  individuals 
have  spent  in  missionary  work,  the 
Church  between  1910  and  1937,  inclu- 
sive, expended  $18,620,028.00.  From 
1938  to  1953,  inclusive,  $34,026,640.00, 
making  a  total  from  Church  fimds  of 
$52,646,668.00.  This  does  not  include 
what  the  Church  spent  between  the 
years  1830  and  1910.  I  could  not  get 
those  figures.  So  that  is  a  total  amount 
in  dollars  expended  for  missionary  serv- 
ice of  $107,146,668.00.  Just  let  your 
mind  go  bade  now  to  the  beginning  be- 
fore there  was  a  Church  organized,  be- 
fore the  Book  of  Mormon  was  published, 
and  think  how  truly  was  the  word 
spoken  that  a  marvelous  work  and  a 
wonder  was  about  to  come  forth. 

A  half  century  ago  there  were  com- 
paratively few  chapels  in  the  missions 
owned  by  the  Church.  Today  there  are 
410  completed  in  the  United  States, 
Canada,  Mexico,  and  Hawaii,  at  a  cost 
of  $8,488,431.00.  There  are  206  com- 
pleted in  foreign  lands  at  a  cost  of 
$4,525,335.00. 

There  are  142  buildings  now  under 
construction  in  the  missions  at  a  cost 
of  $6,058,450.00.  Besides  these  mission 
chapels,  there  are  thirty-three  mission 
homes  purchased  at  a  cost  of  over 
$1,000,000.00. 

At  the  turn  of  the  century  there  were 
forty-five  stakes,  with  approximately  550 
wards.  Today  there  are  212  stakes  with 
1683  wards  and  232  independent 
branches. 

In  addition  to  this,  there  are  112 
seminary  and  institute  buildings  com- 
pleted at  a  cost  of  $2,788,798.00; 
Brigham  Yoimg  University  buildings, 
$9,470,000.00,  or  a  total  cost  of  $32,464,- 
438.00. 

Now  note  in  the  wards  and  stakes. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


25 


although  this  is  not  directly  on  my 
theme,  we  have  nearly  1300  chapels, 
completed  at  an  original  cost  of 
$76,196,505.00;  351  others  under  con- 
struction at  a  cost  of  $34,916,707.00;  a 
total  cost  for  ward  and  stake  buildings 
of  $111,113,205.00;  or  a  grand  total  for 
Church  buildings  of  $143,577,643.00. 

Here  is  another  phase  of  Church  work 
— ^baptisms  for  those  who  did  not  have  a 
chance  to  hear  the  gospel  before  they 
died.  As  of  December  31,  1953,  there 
had  been  performed  a  total  of  17,357,931 
baptisms,  and  a  total  number  of  endow- 
ments of  15,035,700. 

A  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder  1 

Creditable  chapels  are  now  found  in 
Finland,  Denmark,  Sweden,  Norway, 
France,  Germany,  Belgium,  Holland, 
Switzerland,  and  throughout  the  British 
Empire.  Members  in  Johannesburg  are 
waiting  for  plans  to  build  a  modem 
chapel  on  a  very  suitable  lot  already 
secured  for  that  purpose. 

On  our  recent  tour  to  South  America 
we  had  the  pleasure  of  laying  the  cor- 
nerstone of  a  chapel  in  Montevideo, 
which  would  be  a  credit  to  any  ward 
in  the  Church,  with  its  chapel,  recrea- 
tion hall,  and  classrooms.  Other  sites 
are  already  chosen  throughout  the  mis- 
sion. At  Durban,  there  will  be  a  chapel, 
recreation  hall,  and  classrooms  ready  for 
dedication  some  time  next  month. 

In  the  fastest  growing  city  in  the 
world,  so  they  told  us — Sao  Paulo— 
where  the  price  of  a  lot  for  a  chapel  is 
almost  prohibitive,  the  president  of  the 
mission  is  authorized  to  see  what  he  can 
do  to  find  a  suitable  building  lot  and 
make  his  recommendation  for  a  flour- 
ishing branch  in  that  great  city  of 
over  three  million. 

Other  branches  in  Brazil  are  calling 
for  suitable  accommodations.  In  the 
Argentine  Mission  we  visited  six  chapels 
near  Buenos  Aires,  in  fact,  in  that  city. 
Though  it  was  merely  an  investigating 
tour,  we  found  at  each  place  from  fifty 
to  one  hundred  and  fifty  members  wait- 
ing to  greet  us. 

Ever  since  its  organization,  the  Pana- 
ma Branch  in  the  Central  American 
Mission  has  been  the  recipient  of  the 


hospitality  of  Rabbi  Nathan  Witkins 
and  the  members  of  the  Jewish  Church 
who  shared  their  meeting  accommoda- 
tions with  our  Church  membiers.  Here 
an  active,  energetic  group  merit  a  meet- 
ing place  of  their  own.  We  express  ap- 
preciation of  the  co-operation  of  this 
Jewish  group  who  entertained  us  while 
we  were  there  visiting  officially. 

In  Guatemala  there  is  already  being 
completed  a  chapel  with  its  tile  flooring 
and  oak  finish  at  such  a  reasonable  cost 
as  would  make  any  ward  in  the  Church 
envious. 

Commendable  progress  is  being  made 
throughout  Mexico  in  regards  to  furnish- 
ing suitable  houses  of  worship. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  cite  these  few 
conditions  and  references  not  only  by 
way  of  commendation  to  the  officers  and 
members  of  these  various  missions,  but 
for  the  purpose  of  calling  your  atten- 
tion to  this  important  question: 

Fourth,  if  within  a  little  more  than  a 
century  this  Church  could  achieve  such 
success  in  numbers,  wealth,  and  influ- 
ence, how  much  more,  comparatively 
speaking,  might  we  accomplish  within 
the  next  half  century  with  a  million  and 
a  half  loyal  members,  with  comparative 
prosperity  attending  our  efforts,  and  with 
a  better  understanding  in  the  minds  of 
the  intelligent,  well-informed  people  as 
to  the  purposes  and  aims  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ? 

Ours  is  the  responsibility,  greater  than 
ever  before,  to  proclaim: 

1.  That  the  Church  is  divinely  es- 
tablished by  the  appearance  of  God  the 
Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  that  divine 
authority  through  the  priesthood  is  giv- 
en to  represent  Deity  in  establishing 
Christ's  Church  upon  the  earth. 

2.  That  its  assigned  responsibility  is 
to  fulfil  the  admonition  of  Jesus  to  his 
Apostles  to  "Go  ye  therefore,  and  teach 
all  nations,  baptizing  them  in  the  name 
of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of 
the  Holy  Ghost: 

"Teaching  them  to  observe  all  things 
whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you:  and, 
lo,  I  am  with  you  alway,  even  unto  the 
end  of  the  world."  (Matt.  28:19-20.) 


26 

Sunday,  AprU  4 

3.  To  proclaim  peace  and  good  will 
unto  all  manldnd. 

4.  To  exert  every  efFort,  and  all  means 
within  our  reach  to  make  evil-thinking 
men  good,  good  men  better,  and  all 
people  happier. 

5.  To  proclaim  the  truth  that  each 
individual  is  a  child  of  God  and  im- 
portant in  his  sight;  that  he  is  entitled 
to  freedom  of  thought,  freedom  of  speech, 
freedom  of  assembly;  that  he  has  the 
right  to  worship  God  according  to  the 
dictates  of  his  conscience.  In  this  posi- 
tive declaration,  we  imply  that  organi- 
zations or  churches  which  deprive  the 
individual  of  these  inherent  rights  are 
not  in  harmony  with  God's  will  nor 
with  his  revealed  word. 

Finally,  ours  is  the  responsibiliy  to 
make  available  to  the  tens  of  thousands 
of  faithful  members  throughout  the  for- 
eign missions  the  privilege  of  participat- 
ing in  the  eternal  nature  of  covenants 
and  ceremonies. 

Not  counting  Kirtland  and  Nauvoo, 
eight  temples  have  been  completed  and 
are  now  in  use,  with  two  more  under 
construction  at  a  total  cost  of  $13,758,- 
750.00. 

One  of  our  greatest  responsibilities  is 
to  make  accessible  to  faithful  members 
of  the  Church  in  foreign  lands  suitable 
houses  of  the  Lord.  Tens  of  thousands 
of  them  are  not  able  to  come  where 
temples  are,  and  where  they  receive  the 
blessings  of  the  endowment,  to  have 
sealed  to  them  their  wives  and  their 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

children  for  time  and  all  eternity.  Ours 
is  the  duty  to  carry  the  temple  to  them. 
It  may  not  be  expensive,  but  it  will  be 
complete,  and  thus  will  churches  be 
built  and  strengthened  throughout  the 
world. 

On  this  Simday  morning,  may  we 
demonstrate  our  knowledge  of  the  reali- 
ty of  Christ's  existence  and  our  love  for 
the  gospel  by  renewed  service  to  his 
Church,  by  greater  kindness  and  for- 
bearance toward  our  associates,  and  by 
exercising  more  charity  for  the  honest 
in  heart  the  world  over. 

In  the  words  of  President  John  Taylor, 
and  radiating  his  same  spirit,  we  say 
to  the  priesthood  throughout  the  world: 
"Go  to  every  tribe  and  nation; 
Visit  every  land  and  clime; 
Sound  to  all  the  proclamation; 
Tell  to  all  the  truth  sublime; 
That  the  gospel. 
Does  in  ancient  glory  shine." 
God  give  us  this  power  and  the  spirit 
of  our  callings  in  rich  abundance  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

To  the  listening  audimce.  President 
David  O.  McKay  has  just  addressed  us. 
We  shall  now  hear  from  President 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  president  of  the 
Coimcil  of  the  Twelve.  He  will  be 
followed  by  Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown. 

President  Smith. 


PRESroENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


j  HAVE  always  taken  a  great  in- 
terest in  Section  4  of  the  Doc- 
I  trine  and  Covenants,  one 
I  reason  being  that  it  was  given 
directly  to  my  great-grand- 
father, who  made  inquiry  to 
know  what  the  Lord  would  have  him 
do.  Second,  because  I  have  always 
considered  that  this  revelation  was  writ- 
ten to  me,  not  only  to  me,  but  also  to 
every  man  in  the  Church  holding  the 
Holy  Priesthood. 


It  was  not  intended  as  a  personal 
revelation. 

May  I  make  a  comment?  I  do  not 
wish  to  detract  from  anything  that  has 
been  said  by  President  McKay,  but  I 
would  like  to  make  this  comment  in 
relation  to  verse  4:  "For  behold  the  field 
is  white  already  to  harvest;  and  lo,  he 
that  thrusteth  in  his  sickle  with  his 
might,  the  same  layeth  up  in  store  that 
he  perisheth  not,  but  bringeth  salva- 
tion to  his  soul." 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH 

There  is  a  great  respoiisibility  resting 
upon  the  members  of  the  Chxirch,  both 
men  and  women,  to  proclaim  the  words 
of  eternal  life,  but  more  especially  upon 
these  men  who  have  accepted  the 
priesthood  with  a  promise  that  they 
would  be  true  and  faithful  and  would 
magnify  their  callings,  and  in  the  verse 
that  I  have  read  the  Lord  proclaims 
this  fact:  that  if  we  fail  in  the  duties 
that  are  assigned  to  us  and  refuse  to 
accept  the  responsibilities  which  come 
from  that  priesthood,  that  we  ourselves 
are  in  danger  of  losing  our  own  salva- 
tion. It  is  a  great  responsibility  resting 
upon  each  of  us  to  proclaim  this  truth  to 
a  benighted  world.  I  say  benighted  be- 
cause for  hundreds  of  years  they  have 
been  without  the  guidance  of  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  and  the  proper  understand- 
ing of  the  things  which  are  written  in 
the  scriptures.  They  have  not  had  a 
correct  understanding  of  the  nature  of 
God,  not  until  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
came  to  reveal  it. 

Strange  as  that  may  be,  considering 
the  plainness  with  which  the  doctrine 
is  taught  throughout  the  scriptures,  and 
so  plainly  presented  this  morning  by 
President  Clark  in  his  radio  talk,  that 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  that  they 
are  separate  individuals  or  personages, 
one  the  Father  and  one  the  Son,  but 
the  world  did  not  understand.  They 
do  not  understand  it  today  notwith- 
standing the  fact  that  the  Lord  has 
made  it  so  plain  through  the  revela- 
tions that  came  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith. 

It  is  rather  remarkable,  is  it  not,  that 
all  the  great  religious  teachers  of  the 
world,  since  the  time  of  the  passing  of 
the  Apostles  to  the  time  that  this  youth 
went  out  into  the  woods  to  pray,  had 
no  clear  imderstanding  of  the  nature  of 
God. 

The  men  of  the  Protestant  Reforma- 
tion did  not  understand  it,  and  in  their 
endeavors  to  correct  the  evils  that,  they 
saw  then  existing,  it  never  entered  into 
their  minds  that  the  doctrine  that  had 
been  proclaimed  since  the  third  century 
or  the  fourth  century  of  the  Christian 
era  was  not  in  accord  with  the  revela- 


FIELDING  SMITH  27 

tions  given  by  the  Apostles  of  God  as 
they  are  recorded  in  the  New  Testament. 
That  never  entered  their  minds,  but 
they  continued  that  same  doctrine  of 
the  mysterious  nature  of  God,  that  Jesus 
Christ  lost  his  body  after  the  resurrec- 
tion and  was  swallowed  up  in  some 
mysterious  way  into  the  great  body 
of  God,  ethereal  in  its  nature. 

Now,  when  Joseph  Smith  went  out 
into  the  woods  to  pray,  he  had  no  un- 
derstanding that  the .  Father  and  the 
Son  were  separate  Personages.  I  am 
sin-e  of  that.  How  would  he  know  it 
after  listening  to  the  teachings  of  the 
ministers  of  his  day?  But  he  came  back 
after  the  manifestation  was  given  to 
him,  having  been  instructed  by  the  Son 
of  God  with  that  knowledge  clearly  in 
his  mind,  and  proclaimed  it  to  the 
world — that  Jesus  Christ  is  literally  the 
only  begotten  Son  of  God  in  the  flesh, 
and  that  he  is  in  the  image  of  his 
Father. 

He  gave  that  great  truth  back  again 
to  the  world,  and  unfortunately  many 
of  them,  even  to  this  day,  are  not  ready 
nor  willing  to  receive  it. 

Now,  in  the  preface  to  the  book  of 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  Lord's 
preface,  the  first  section  in  the  book,  we 
have  some  proclamations  given  for  the 
beriefit  of  the  world  which  I  would  like 
to  read  to  you. 

"Wherefore,  I  the  Lord,  knowing  the 
calamity  which  should  come  uprai  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth,  called  upon 
my  servant  Joseph  Smith,  Jun.,  and 
spake  unto  him  from  heaven,  and  gave 
him  commandments; 

"And  also  gave  commandments  to 
others,  that  they  should  proclaim  these 
things  unto  the  world;  and  all  this  that 
it  might  be  fulfilled,  which  was  written 
by  the  prophets — 

"The  weak  things  of  the  world  shall 
come  forth  and  break  down  the  mighty 
and  strong  ones,  that  man  should  not 
counsel  his  fellow  man,  neither  trust 
in  the  arm  of  flesh — 

"But  that  every  man  might  speak  in 
the  name  of  God  the  Lord,  even  the 
Savior  of  the  world; 


28 

Sunday,  April  4 

"That  faith  also  might  increase  in 

the  earth; 

"That  mine  everlasting  covenant 
might  be  established; 

"That  the  fulness  of  my  gospel  might 
be  proclaimed  by  the  weak  and  the 
simple  unto  the  ends  of  the  world,  and 
before  kings  and  rulers. 

"Behold,  I  am  God  and  have  spoken 
it;  these  commandments  are  of  me,  and 
were  given  unto  my  servants  in  their 
weakness,  after  the  manner  of  their 
language,  that  they  might  come  to 
imderstanding. 

"And  inasmuch  as  they  erred  it  might 
be  made  known; 

"And  inasmuch  as  they  sought  wis- 
dom they  might  be  instructed; 

"And  inasmuch  as  they  sinned  they 
might  be  chastened,  that  they  might 
repent; 

"And  inasmuch  as  they  were  humble 
they  might  be  made  strong,  and  blessed 
from  on  high,  and  receive  knowledge 
from  time  to  time. 

"And  after  having  received  the  rec- 
ord of  the  Nephites,  yea,  even  my  serv- 
ant Joseph  Smith,  Jun.,  might  have 
power  to  translate  through  the  mercy 
of  God,  by  the  power  of  God,  the  Book 
of  Mormon. 

"And  also  those  to  whom  these  com- 
mandments were  given,  might  have 
power  to  lay  the  foundation  of  this 
church,  and  to  bring  it  forth  out  of 
obscurity  and  out  of  darkness,  the  only 
true  and  living  church  upon  the  face 
of  the  whole  earth,  with  which  I,  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Lord,  am  well  pleased,  speaking  unto 
the  church  collectively  and  not  indi- 
vidually— 

"For  I  the  Lord  cannot  look  upon 
sin  with  the  least  degree  of  allowance." 
(D.  &  C.  1:17-31.) 

I  wish  the  Lord  could  have  said,  and 
I  wish  he  could  say  it  today,  that  this 
is  the  only  Church  upon  the  face  of 
the  earth  with  which  he  is  well  pleased 
considering  this  Church  individually. 
That  he  cannot  say,  but  if  we  would 
humble  ourselves,  if  those  who  are  way- 
ward and  indifferent,  who  have  received 
the  testimony  of  the  truth  would  repent, 
and  if  every  man  and  every  woman  and 
child  who  is  old  enough  to  understand 
would  turn  unto  the  Lord  with  full 
purpose  of  heart  and  honor  and  serve 
him  as  we  are  commanded  to  do,  the 
Lord  would  be  able  to  say  it. 

The  day  is  promised  when  righteous- 
ness shall  prevail,  and  when  it  shall  cover 
the  face  of  the  earth  as  the  waters  do 
the  sea,  and  I  am  sure  that  many  of  us 
will  have  to  humble  ourselves  if  we  live 
to  see  that  day,  and  if  we  do  not  humble 
ourselves,  and  should  that  day  come, 
we  will  have  to  be  removed. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  keep  the 
commandments  of  God  as  they  have 
been  revealed.  Let  us  set  the  example 
before  the  people  of  the  earth,  that 
they,  seeing  our  good  works,  may  feel 
to  repent  and  receive  the  truth  and 
accept  the  plan  of  salvation,  that  they 
may  receive  salvation  in  the  celestial 
kingdom  of  God,  and  so  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


IRETHREN  AND  SISTERS,  there  are 
times  when  silence  would 
seem  to  be  more  appropriate 
than  speech,  when  one  is  so 
overwhelmed  that  speech  is 
no  longer  an  adequate  me- 
expression,  when  one  could 
wish  that  he  could  broadcast  a  message 


from  his  soul  without  opening  his 
mouth. 

Some  years  ago  we  took  our  little 
family  down  to  the  Grand  Canyon  of 
the  Colorado.  The  children  were  young. 
We  stood  where  thousands  of  you  have 
stood,  on  Inspiration  Point,  and  we 
saw  with  awe  and  wonder  the  depths. 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


29 


the  distances,  the  majesty  of  that  scene. 
We  felt  our  littleness  and  insignificance. 

As  we  stood  there  absolutely  speech- 
less, with  our  arms  around  each  other, 
little  Mary  slipped  her  hand  in  mine 
and  said,  "Daddy,  don't  you  think  we 
ought  to  pray?" 

Looking  out  upon  this  great  canyon 
of  faces,  and  realizing  that  out  beyond 
there  are  other  thousands  listening  in, 
again  one  is  smitten  with  a  sense  of 
littleness  and  insignificance,  again  it 
seems  that  prayer  would  be  the  only 
appropriate  form  of  speech.  A  man 
may  talk  to  God  when  he  is  afraid  to 
talk  to  men.  Would  you  join  then  in 
-a  continuation  of  the  beautiful  prayer 
that  was  offered  in  the  invocation  by 
President  [Golden  L.]  Woolf,  which 
expressed  thanks  and  gratitude  for  our 
blessings?  All  of  us  are  indebted  to  the 
past,  and  I  am  sure  we  could,  with 
profit,  join  in  prayer  and  thanksgiving 
to  God  for  those  who  preceded  us. 
All  of  us,  like  the  mountain  streams, 
depend  for  our  volume  and  quality  upon 
the  springs  and  tributaries  that  lie  far 
back  in  the  hills. 

Indeed  some  of  us  are  aware  this 
morning  of  sustenance  from  tributaries 
which  have  their  source  on  the  Other 
side  of  the  valley  of  life.  We  thank 
thee,  our  Father,  for  our  ancestors.  Many 
of  us  look  back  through  five  generations 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  think  of 
them  who  were  associated  with  the 
Prophet,  of  their  trials  and  difficulties; 
their  heartbreaking  experiences  in  Kirt- 
land  and  Nauvoo;  their  subsequent 
journeys  across  the  plains  with  their  ox 
teams  or  handcarts;  and  for  some  of 
them  the  memorable  march  of  the 
Mormon  Battalion.  They  established 
themselves  in  this  desert  land,  and 
some  of  them  were  called  by  the  Au- 
thorities of  the  Church  to  move  again 
and  go  into  even  more  rugged  and  for- 
bidding areas  extending  from  Mexico 
to  Canada.  We  thank  God  for  our 
great  progenitors.  With  Nephi,  we  feel 
that  to  be  bom  of  goodly  parents  is  one 
of  heaven's  choicest  blessings. 

If  for  a  moment  we  become  personal. 


it  is  not  because  our  experiences  and 
heritage  are  unique — they  are  but  typical 
of  the  lives  of  Latter-day  Saints — but  we 
are  thinking  now  of  a  father,  willing 
all  his  life  to  lay  everything  upon  the 
altar,  sending  boys  on  missions,  building 
up  new  areas,  struggling  against  the 
elements.  We  are  thinking  of  a  pioneer 
mother,  a  woman  who  somehow  had  the 
genius  to  inspire  in  the  hearts  of  each 
of  her  seven  sons  and  seven  daughters 
a  sense  of  their  individual  worth  and 
who  predicted  for  them  blessings  in  the 
future  predicated  upon  observance  of 
law. 

We  are  thinking  too  of  our  compan- 
ions, and  I  am  sure  all  of  you  brethren 
who  are  assembled  and  who  are  listening 
will  join  in  a  tribute  to  those  who  know 
us  best,  in  our  weaknesses,  and  still 
somehow  contrive  to  bring  out  of  us 
something  of  our  potential  worth;  who 
pray  and  love  us  into  being  our  better 
selves. 

This  speech  would  not  now  be  made 
were  it  not  for  one  of  the  choicest  of 
the  daughters  of  Israel.  Her  faith  and 
loyalty  and  love  were  sail  and  chart 
and  compass  on  life's  voyage.  O  God, 
we  thank  thee  for  our  companions.  We 
are  grateful,  too,  for  the  hallowing  in- 
fluence of  children  in  the  home.  They 
hold  us  like  an  anchor  in  the  storm. 
We  think  back  when  we  knelt  by  their 
beds  to  nurse  them  through  affliction, 
when  we  called  on  God  to  bless  and 
restore  them,  and  he  heard  us;  we 
thank  God  for  the  influence  of  their  lives 
upon  us,  and  for  the  continuing  divi- 
dends of  their  love  and  loyalty. 

We  thank  God  for  the  privilege  that 
has  been  ours  of  working  with  the 
young  people  of  the  Church.  The  in- 
spiring message  of  our  beloved  Presi- 
dent about  conditions  in  the  world  and 
the  need  for  missionaries  makes  those 
of  us  who  have  had  that  experience 
feel,  as  I  am  sure  these  mission  presi- 
dents here  today  must  feel,  how  great 
it  would  be  if  there  could  be  a:  hundred 
thousand  of  them.  I  am  sure  each 
mission  could  absorb  all  the  mission- 
aries that  we  now  can  send. 


30 

Sunday,  April  4 

Thank  God  for  the  privilege  of  work- 
ing with  those  young  people,  worthy 
descendants  of  pioneer  stock,  faithful, 
full  of  integrity  and  faith.  They  have 
meant  so  much  to  our  lives. 

Humbly  we  thank  God  for  the  price- 
less privilege  that  has  been  ours  to 
associate  with  the  men  in  the  service, 
men  who  are  willing  to  die  for  free- 
dom and  country,  and  have  the  courage 
to  live  the  principles  of  the  gospel.  We 
have  seen  them  coming  back  from 
bombing  missions,  kneeling  in  their 
battle  dress  and  talking  to  God  as  few 
men  talk.  Thank  God  for  the  privilege 
of  associating  with  the  servicemen.  God 
bless  thenu 

May  we,  as  we  leave  this  confer- 
ence, not  forget  them,  but  let  a  flood  of 
letters  go  out  to  them,  expressing  our 
faith  in  them,  letting  them  know  that 
we  are  praying  for  them. 

Thank  God,  too,  for  the  great  privilege 
of  associating  with  the  students  in 
Brigham  Young  University,  the  inspira- 
tion that  comes  from  those  thousands  of 
valiant  young  Latter-day  Saints,  fruits 
of  the  gospel,  nourished  and  sustained 
by  the  blood  of  their  pioneer  ancestors. 
Truly  they  are  thoroughbreds.  We  al- 
most envy  you  yoimg  people  who  are 
listening  in,  and  who  are  here  today, 
envy  you  the  future,  dark  and  difficult 
though  it  may  seem.  Do  not  allow  the 
huge  events  that  are  darkening  the  hori- 
zon to  intimidate  your  souls,  for  God 
will  make  you  equal  to  your  time  and 
task.  The  same  one  who  led  your  parents 
will  stand  by  you  if  you  forsake  him 
not.  We  envy  you  as  you  go  forth  with 
the  improved  methods  and  increased 
power  to  which  reference  has  been 
made,  and  we  say,  with  the  poet. 

Ye  that  have  faith  to  look  with  fearless 

eyes 

Beyond  the  tragedy  of  a  world  at  strife, 
And  know  that  out  of  death  and  night 

shall  rise 
The  dawn  of  ampler  life: 
Rejoice,  whatever  anguish  rend  the  heart. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

That  God  has  given  you  the  priceless  dower 
To  live  in  these  great  times  and  have  your 
part 

That  ye  may  tell  your  sons  who  see  the 

Urn 

In  Freedom's  crownii^  hour. 

High  in  the  heavens — ^their  heritage  to 

take — 

"I  saw  the  powers  of  darkness  take  their 
flight; 

"I  saw  the  morning  break."t 

Now,  while  it  would  be  inappropriate 
to  even  mention  the  first  personal  pro- 
noim  in  this  speech,  it  would  be  un- 
grateful indeed  if  reference  were  not 
made  to  the  gratitude  that  fills  our 
hearts  for  the  privilege  that  now  is  ours 
to  associate  with  these  great  men,  a 
privilege  that  must  not  be  misread  as 
merit.  We  love  and  support  and  honor 
them.  We  thank  God  for  the  privilege 
of  sitting  at  the  feet  of  greater  men 
than  Gamailiel  of  old  who  tutored 
Paul. 

God  help  us  all  that  we  may  add  to 
our  faith,  virtue,  and  to  virtue,  knowl- 
edge, and  to  knowledge,  temperance, 
and  to  temperance,  patience,  and  to 
patience,  godliness,  and  to  godliness, 
brotherly  kindness,  and  to  brotherly 
kindness,  charity.  God  grant  that  these 
things  may  be  in  us  and  abound,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


fFound  on  the  body  of  an  AustiaUan  soldier  and 
aedlted  to  Sir  Owen  Seaman. 


President  David  O,  McKay: 

The  congregation  and  Choir  will  now 
join  in  singing  "High  On  The  Mountain 
Top." 

After  the  singing.  President  Stephen 
L  Richards  of  the  First  Presidency  will 
speak  to  us. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined 
in  singing  the  hymn,  "High  on  the 
Mountain  Top." 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


AM  DEEPLY  grateful  to  be  as- 
sociated with  you,  my  dear 
brethren  and  sisters,  in  this 
great  conference  of  the 
Church.  In  your  presence  I 
give  thanks  for  the  blessings 
of  health  and  strength  sufficient  to  en- 
able me  to  participate  in  the  cause  so 
dear  to  our  hearts.  I  thank  God  for 
the  testimony  and  conviction  which  has 
come  to  me  in  my  youth,  and  grown 
throughout  the  years,  that  he  lives,  that 
he  is  the  Organizer  and  Ruler  of  the 
universe,  that  his  Son  is  our  Redeemer 
and  Savior  and  the  Lord  of  this  earth, 
and  that  his  gospel,  plaimed  in  the  be- 
giiming  to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man,  has  been  au- 
thentically restored  to  the  earth  in  its 
fulness,  after  a  long  period  of  time  dur- 
ing which  its  spirit  and  power  were 
lost  to  God's  children. 

So  grateful  I  am  for  these  transcendent 
blessings  which  have  come  into  my  own 
life  that  years  ago  I  resolved  that  with 
the  Lord's  help  and  the  limited  powers 
at  my  disposal  I  would  do  what  I  could 
to  extend  these  benefactions  to  my  fel- 
low men,  my  brethren  and  sisters  in 
the  family  of  the  Lord.  With, such 
a  purpose  in  mind,  I  have  selected  a 
text  today,  which  after  the  most  in- 
spiring addresses  which  have  taken  place 
not  only  at  this  session  but  also  at  the 
Church  of  the  Air  session,  I  would  think 
to  be  substantially  imnecessary,  and  yet 
which  I  fear  in  the  interest  of  some  at 
least,  may  with  propriety  be  called  to 
your  attention.  I  nave  in  mind  the 
preface  to  the  famous  definition  of  the 
gospel  which  Paul  gave  to  us  years  and 
years  ago,  in  the  following  well-known 
words:  "...  I  am  not  ashamed  of  the 
gospel  of  Christ."  (Romans  1:16.)  I  am 
induced  to  dwell  upon  these  words 
through  the  observations  which  I  have 
made  for  many  years  pertinent  to  the 
conduct  of  men  and  women  both  within 
and  without  the  Church.  I  have  re- 
marked on  previous  occasions  that  Paul 


must  have  been  inspired,  as  he  gave  his 
definition  of  the  gospel,  to  look  down 
through  the  ages  of  men  and  with 
prophetic  vision  fathom  the  reasoning, 
the  philosophies,  and  the  dispositions  of 
men  of  all  ages.  Not  only  was  his 
preface  justified  on  the  premise  of  vision 
and  understanding,  but  it  also  con- 
formed to  the  words  of  the  Master  him- 
self, when,  at  the  conclusion  of  his 
sermon  after  feeding  the  multitude,  he 
uttered  these  portentous  words:  "Who- 
soever therefore  shall  be  ashamed  of 
me  and  of  my  words  in  this  adulterous 
and  sinful  generation;  of  him  also  shall 
the  Son  of  man  be  ashamed,  when  he 
cometh  in  the  glory  of  his  Father  with 
the  holy  angels."  (Mark  8:38.) 

Why  should  men  be  ashamed  of  the 
gospel  of  Christ?  It  is  conceivable  that 
many  may  not  be  converted  and  have 
faith  sufficient  to  accept  the  divinity  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  and  the  efficacy  of  his 
gospel,  but  having  once  had  assurance 
of  his  reality  and  the  blessings  which 
flow  therefrom,  why  are  they  so  hesi- 
tant in  the  acknowledgment  ot  his  good- 
ness and  merciful  consideration  for 
them?  I  don't  know  that  I  am  compe- 
tent to  point  out  the  psychological  basis 
for  this  state  of  mind,  but  I  doubt  that 
a  psychologist  is  needed  to  understand 
some  of  the  factors  that  contribute  to  it. 

Undoubtedly  one  of  the  factors  is 
pride;  I  think  a  false  pride,  which  in- 
duces a  sense  of  fear,  nearly  always 
without  justification,  that  a  confession 
of  religious  faith  will  make  for  loss  of 
prestige  and  standing  among  a  certain 
class  of  associates.  There  is  sometimes 
fear  that  ridicule  will  follow  sudi  an 
acknowledgment,  and  of  course  no  one 
likes  to  be  ridiculed  because  that  is 
great  injury  to  pride  and  self-esteem 
and  hard  to  take. 

There  are  some  who  may  regard  the 
acknowledgment  of  spiritual  power  as  a 
stigma  of  weakness,  that  the  humility 
which  is  essential  to  the  acceptance  of 
divine  power   is  incompatible  with 


32  GENERAL  C 

Strnday,  April  4 

Strength  of  manhood  and  self-determina- 
tion. That  was  in  large  measure  the 
doctrine  of  Hitler  and  is  today  the 
philosophy  of  Communism.  I  hope  there 
are  not  many  who  adopt  such  a  philos- 
ophy of  life. 

There  are  some  who  seem  to  feel 
that  their  liberties  are  circumscribed  by 
the  acceptance  and  acknowledgment  of 
spiritual  forces  and  that  they  are  much 
freer  and  better  off  to  make  no  pro- 
fession of  faith  whatever.  Considered 
in  the  light  of  a  deterrent  to  wrong- 
doing, perhaps  they  are  right,  but  such 
a  concept  is  really  an  abandonment  of 
the  underlying  principles  of  righteous- 
ness and  good  character. 

Then  there  are  those,  constituting  per- 
haps the  largest  portion  of  that  group 
within  the  Church  who  seem  ashamed 
of  the  gospel  of  Christ,  who  are  just 
too  weak  to  stand  up  under  all  cir- 
cumstances and  conditions  for  the  right 
and  the  truth  as  they  know  it  to  be. 
Some  of  these  are  our  so-called  intellec- 
tuals, who  persuade  themselves  that 
they  suffer  something  of  a  loss  of  caste 
in  the  sophisticated  world  in  which  they 
move  by  plain,  unequivocal  acknowledg- 
ment of  the  Lord's  supremacy  and  our 
dependence  on  him.  How  they  come  to 
persuade  themselves  that  a  lesser  order 
of  intelligence  is  required  to  compre- 
hend and  acquire  the  eternal  and 
transcendently  beautiful  and  vital  truths 
and  concepts  of  life,  human  behavior 
and  destiny  coming  through  revelation, 
than  the  findings  of  science,  I  do  not 
understand.  Both  are  important,  all  a 
part  of  God's  wise  provision  for  human- 
ity.  Why  disparage  either? 

There  is  one  type  of  thinking  with 
which  I  have  some  sympathy,  and  that 
is  for  the  man  who  is  hesitant  to  make 
professions  who  has  not  acquired  the 
strength  to  live  up  to  them.  He  falls, 
however,  not  so  much  in  the  category 
of  those  ashamed  of  the  gospel  as  of 
those  who  have  not  had  sufficient  con- 
viction of  the  truth  to  bring  to  them 
mastery  of  themselves  and  their  habits. 

Now  while  I  may  not  have  pointed 
out  all  of  the  factors  and  circumstances 
which  give  rise  to  this  state  of  being 


Second  Day 

ashamed  of  the  gospel,  I  should  like  to 
pass  to  the  more  important  and  positive 
aspects  of  my  theme  by  asking  the  com- 
prehensive question,  "What  is  there 
about  the  gospel  of  Christ  to  be  ashamed 
of?" 

The  gospel  of  Christ  is  revelation. 
The  Savior  himself  was  a  revelation, 
coming  to  earth  to  reveal  to  men  in  the 
flesh  the  Father,  his  personality  and 
his  attributes.  Christ  himself  was  in 
no  sense  an  outgrowth  of  his  times  and 
environment.  He  came  in  shocking 
contrast  to  the  philosophies  and  prac- 
tices prevailing  at  the  time,  as  is  being 
pointed  out  so  impressively  by  our  cur- 
rent speaker  [Hugh  Nibley]  on  the  Sun- 
day evening  radio  hour  of  the  Church. 
The  gospel  was  restored  in  the  latter 
days  through  revelation.  Few  people 
acquainted  with  the  life  and  history 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  the 
circumstances  under  which  the  restora- 
tion took  place,  will  honestly  contend 
that  the  great  work  he  initiated  could 
have  come  about  on  his  own  initiative 
and  personal  capabilities.  Revelation 
is  the  foundation  of  the  gospel  of  Christ. 
Why  be  ashamed  of  it?  Would  it  make 
anybody  happier  to  ascribe  the  origin 
of  the  gospel  to  the  rationalizing  of 
men?  Such  a  position  would  surely  rob 
it  of  its  authority  and  vitality.  Why 
should  any  Christian  wish  to  do  that? 
He  may  not  be  a  Christian.  That  is 
within  his  right  of  election,  but  if  he  is 
a  Christian,  how  can  he  be  ashamed  of 
revelation? 

Priesthood  is  an  essential  component 
of  the  gospel  plan.  Why  should  men 
be  ashamed  of  the  priesthood?  In  grant- 
ing the  priesthood  to  man,  the  Lord 
has  dignified  and  honored  him  as  per- 
haps he  could  have  done  in  no  other 
way.  The  priesthood  is  the  power  by 
which  the  worlds  were  created,  and  is 
"  .  .  .  without  beginning  of  days  or  end 
of  years."  (Alma  13:7.)  It  is  the  specific 
delegation  of  the  authority  of  the  Lord 
to  administer  the  ordinances  of  the 
holy  gospel,  and  it  is  the  requisite  in- 
vestiture of  a  man  to  receive  his  highest 
reward  in  the  life  to  come.  It  is  the 
kindest,  most  charitable,  most  consider- 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


33 


ate  and  merciful  power  and  authority 
ever  described  in  all  literature.  It  tem- 
pers and  sweetens  the  life  of  him  who 
holds  it  and  blesses  the  lives  of  those 
to  whom  he  ministers.  It  is  the  perfect 
plan  of  service  to  humankind  because 
within  its  province  come  the  greatest 
of  all  blessings  to  man  and  woman. 
Why  should  any  man  be  ashamed  of 
this  precious  endowment?  If  he  had 
a  commission  from  political  authority, 
he  would  probably  boast  of  it.  I  speak 
to  my  own  brethren  when  I  ask  them 
how  they  justify  themselves  in  speaking 
lightly  of  this  sacred  and  divine  bless- 
ing which  has  come  into  their  lives. 
There  are  men,  I  know,  and  I  hope  I 
won't  offend  by  mentioning  them  as  a 
class,  who  have  flippantly  joked  about 
the  priesthood  most  of  their  lives.  Some 
of  these  men,  like  myself,  are  reaching 
an  age  where  life's  expectancy  is  not 
too  long.  Out  of  my  friendship  for 
them,  I  ask  them  to  repent  before  it  is 
too  late. 

I  mention  next  the  wisdom  which  the 
gospel  of  Christ  brings  to  us  about  the 
human  body,  its  status  and  its  care. 
We  are  indebted  to  science,  and  the 
great  men  of  research,  for  the  develop- 
ment of  much  knowledge  ccmceming  the 
human  body.  I  pay  sincere  tribute  to 
those  who  have  contributed  so  much 
to  our  health,  our  comfort,  and  otir 
longevity.  I  believe  that  there  will  be 
unfolded  to  these  devoted  men  of  sci- 
ence many  more  of  nature's  secrets  to 
combat  dread  diseases,  to  free  men  for 
a  larger  measure  of  usefulness  in  the 
world.  But  science  has  not  discovered 
the  secret  of  life  itself,  its  beginnings  and 
its  purposes.  The  gospel  of  Christ  has 
disclosed  that  informationL  It  has  told 
us  in  plainness  of  our  begiimings  as 
spirit  diildren  of  the  Father,  of  our 
coming  to  earth  to  take  on  mortal 
bodies,  of  our  probation  here,  and  our 
destiny,  if  we  so  elect,  to  win  high 
places  on  our  return  to  the  Father  in  the 
eternities  to  come.  Our  bodies,  thus 
housing  the  eternal  spirit,  take  on  a 
glorified  spiritual  concept  which  science 
cannot  give  them.  Out  of  that  concept 
we  come  to  know  that  we  cannot  dese- 


crate the  body  with  impunity,  and 
without  offering  affront  to  him  who 
made  provision  for  us  to  have  it.  It 
follows  that  we  cannot  take  poisons 
into  it,  or  otherwise  abuse  it,  without 
injury  to  our  own  self-respect  and  with- 
out great  ingratitude.  What  an  in- 
centive to  health  and  cleanliness  of 
life  this  lofty  concept  is!  In  their  major 
aspects  the  demonstrations  of  science  in 
the  last  hundred  years  have  tended  to 
confirm  the  wisdom  of  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  a  product  of  the  gospel  of 
Christ.  Where  is  the  thoughtful  man 
or  woman  who  is  ashamed  of  this 
exalted  concept  of  the  human  body? 

In  the  society  of  men  it  is  pretty 
generally  acknowledged  that  there  is 
no  greater  establishment  than  that  of 
the  home.  Families  are  the  component 
units  in  communities  and  nations,  and 
thoughtful  people  the  world  over  assert 
that  if  all  could  be  right  with  the  homes 
of  the  people,  the  progress  of  civiliza- 
tion would  be  assured.  Next  to  its 
witness  for  the  supremacy  of  one  God 
and  the  coming  forth  of  his  Son,  per- 
haps the  greatest  contribution  emanating 
from  the  holy  Bible  is  its  historical  and 
doctrinal  support  for  the  imity  of,  the 
family  in  the  patriarchal  order.  From 
the  beginning  man  and  woman  were  to 
cleave  together.  Marriage  has  been  or^^ 
dained  of  God,  and  sons  and  daughters 
commanded  to  honor  their  fathers  and 
their  mothers.  All  of  the  earlier  pro- 
nouncements concerning  marriage  and 
family  ties  set  forth  in  the  ancient 
scriptures  were  adopted  by  and  in- 
corporated into  the  gospel  of  Christ. 
Revelations  given  with  the  restoration 
of  the  gospel  in  the  latter  days  have 
expanded  man's  understanding  of  this 
all-important  relationship.  The  wed- 
lock of  a  man  and  woman  has  been 
given  a  significance  never  before  men- 
tioned in  all  Ghristism  literature,  al- 
though uiidoubtedly  wished  for  and 
hoped  for  by  countless  thousands  who 
passed  away  before  the  new  revelation 
came.  I  say  wished  for  and  hoped  for 
because  I  feel  sure  that  Christian  men 
and  women  of  firm  faith  in  immortality 
have  always  longed  and  prayed  for  the 


34  sCENERALl 

SuTiday,  April  4 

reunion  of  their  families  in  the  here- 
after. Well,  that  assurance  came  with 
the  restored  gospel  of  Christ  and  the 
authority  of  the  Holy  Priesthood,  under 
whose  power  men  and  women  were  no 
more  united  in  marriage  until  "death 
doth  them  part,"  but  they  were  sealed 
together  with  bonds  that  persist  in  holy 
matrimony  for  time  and  for  all  eternity, 
and  into  the  marriage  covenant  so  es- 
tablished came  their  children  to  belong 
to  them  forever  and  forever.  What  a 
satisfaction  to  the  true  lover  of  home 
and  familyl  What  a  consolation  in 
times  of  sad  earthly  partings!  What  a 
hope  and  faith  to  live  fori 

I  wish  that  all  loving  husbands  and 
wives,  fathers  and  mothers,  who  have 
lived  in  the  past  and  who  live  at 
present,  could  enjoy  the  peace,  satis- 
faction, and  encouragement  that  this 
great  doctrine  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  brings.  How  can  one  be 
ashamed  of  this  exalting  principle  of 
life  and  salvation?  Is  one  ashamed  of 
it  when  he  or  she  prefers  a  wedding 
in  a  church  with  elaborate,  costly,  and 
showy  pageantry  designed  for  social 
prestige,  to  the  simple,  quiet,  sequestered, 
meaningful,  sacred  service  performed  in 
the  temple  of  God?  Is  she  ashamed  of 
the  gospel  of  Christ  when  she  declines 
to  yield  to  the  requirements  of  modesty 
and  appropriateness  in  dress  for  the 
sacred  temple  ceremonies?  Is  he 
ashamed  of  the  gospel  when  he  cannot 
muster  the  courage  and  strength  to  for- 
sake a  personal  habit  incompatible  with 
the  life  which  is  contemplated  for  the 
participants  in  the  holy  order  of  matri- 
mony? O  my  yoimg  friends,  who  con- 
template selecting  partners  for  life,  I 
entreat  you,  be  not  ashamed  of  the  gos- 
pel of  Christ.  Avail  yourselves  of  the 
great  and  beautiful  privileges  it  offers 
to  you.  If  you  do,  a  rich  happiness  will 
come  into  ypur  lives  that  will  far  ex- 
ceed any  slight  deprivation  you  may 
think  you  suffer  in  obtaining  the  prom- 
ised blessings. 

We  live  in  a  world  where  good  men 
pray  for  brotherhood  and  peace.  I  am 
sure  that  to  many  their  prayers  seem  in 
vain.  So  many  years  have  passed  since 


Second  Day 

there  was  a  measure  of  good  feeling 
among  nations  that  we  have  mostly 
forgotten  that  it  ever  existed  and 
despair  that  it  ever  may  be.  Only  the 
Lord  knows  what  the  future  holds  in 
store.  We  as  a  people  are  resigned  to 
the  acceptance  of  his  will  and  pur- 
poses. I  think,  however,  it  is  not  dis- 
pleasing to  him  for  us  to  pray  and  hope 
for  peace,  and  certainly  it  is  not  out 
of  order  for  his  Church  to  endeavor  to 
lay  the  foundations  for  peace.  It  has 
been  made  known  to  us  through  revela- 
tion that  a  lasting  peace  can  come  only 
through  righteousness  and  brotherhood. 
So  long  as  the  adversary  of  light  and 
truth  is  able  to  lead  his  followers  in 
rebellion  against  God  and  the  gospel 
of  Christ,  so  long  will  there  be  connict 
in  the  world. 

I  am  not  one  who  believes  that  that 
conflict  will  never  cease,  for  I  have 
faith  in  the  triumph  of  truth  and  of 
God's  plans.  His  eternal  plans  are 
laid  out  for  us  in  the  gospel  of  Christ, 
and  however  much  stress  statesmen  and 
men  of  the  world  lay  on  other  formulas, 
true  Christians  know  that  conformity 
to  the  plans  of  the  gospel  alone  will 
bring  enduring  peace.  The  gospel  pro- 
vides us  with  full  understanding  of  all 
the  requisites.  It  tells  us  that  first  there 
must  be  recognition  of  the  supremacy 
of  and  love  of  God  the  Father,  and 
secondly,  that  man  recognizing  himself 
as  a  son  of  God  must  love  his  fellow 
man.  These  are  the  basic  requirements, 
but  we  are  given  iimumerable  instruc- 
tions as  tt»  how  to  implement  them. 

His  Church  has  been  set  up  in  the 
earth  as  a  tangible  institution  to  foster 
and  encompass  the  divinely  appointed 
society  in  which  men  may  live.  This 
government  is  imder  the  jurisdiction  of 
appointed  servants  in  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood, who  are  authorized  to  give  coun- 
sel and  make  decisions  in  the  operation 
of  the  Church.  The  society  itself  is 
foimded  upon  the  fundamental  princi- 
ple and  assumption  that  individual  sal- 
vation here  and  hereafter  is  acquired 
through  our  Savior  by  individual  good 
living  in  compliance  with  the  laws 
and  ordinances  of  the  gospel.  The 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


35 


over-all  function  of  the  Chiirch  fe  to 
bless  its  members  and  all  of  God's 
childron.  All  of  its  purposes  are  altru- 
istic and  Christlike.  It  constitutes  his 
kingdom  set  up  in  the  earth  to  fulfil 
the  high  destiny  he  has  set  for  it.  All 
of  its  agencies  strive  through  devoted 
leadership  and  faithful  members  to 
reach  these  great  ends. 

It  endeavors  to  create  a  brotherhood 
among  men  in  fraternities  of  the  priest- 
hood who  exemplify  the  oneness  for 
which  he  prayed  with  his  own  disciples 
before  his  departure.  This  fraternity 
sufficiently  extended  in  the  world  will 
bring  peace.  To  bring  peace  to  the 
human  soul  and  all  mankind  is  a  major 
objective  of  the  gospel  of  Christ.  Who 
is  ashamed  of  this  noble  aspiration? 
Who  is  ashamed  to  be  identified  with 
such  a  lofty  cause?  I  wish  I  could  an- 
swer: Few  Christians  and  none  with- 
in the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  am 
afraid  that  answer  would  not  be  ac- 
curate, but  I  express  the  earnest  hope 
that  as  the  years  go  by  and  the  designs 
and  purposes  of  the  Lord  become  more 
apparent,  the  number  of  those  who 
are  ashamed  of  the  gospel  of  Christ 
will  rapidly  diminish.  I  take  the  liberty 
of  holding  out  a  promise  to  Christian 
men  everywhere  and  to  their  wives  and 
children:  If  you  will  develop  within 
yourselves  a  deeper  appreciation  for  the 
benefactions  coming  into  your  lives 
through  the  ministry  and  gospel  of  our 
Lord,  and  if  you  will  more  freely  ac- 
knowledge in  the  presence  of  all  men 
his  divine  Lordship  of  the  earth,  a 
measure  of  peace  and  happiness  will 
come  into  your  hearts  and  souls  which 
will  enrich  your  lives,  and  the  lives 
of  countless  others,  and  God  will  bless 
you  and  make  you  happy. 

Then  too,  my  brethren  and  sisters 
in  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  our 
Lord,  I  make  this  solemn  declaration: 
If  you  are  never  ashamed  of  the  gospel 
of  Christ,  if  you  will  always  pray  to 
him  and  never  defame  his  sacred  name, 
if  you  will  never  make  light  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood  and  the  ceremonies  and  ordi- 
nances of  the  gospel,  a  spirit  of  rebel- 
lion will  never  come  into  your  hearts. 


Your  confidence  in  the  leadership  of 
the  Church  will  grow  and  increase. 
Your  relationships  with  your  brethren 
and  sisters  will  become  more  tender 
and  sweet  You  will  grow  in  faith  and 
in  good  wcffks,  and  when  your  life's 
mission  has  been  completed  and  you 
go  hence  to  your  reward,  the  Savior  will 
greet  you,  as  he  has  promised,  with 
those  glorious  words,  "I  am  not  ashamed 
of  you." 

May  that  be  our  lot,  I  humbly  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Stephen  L  Richards  of  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church  has  just 
concluded  speaking.  To  the  listening 
audience,  I  believe  I  neglected  to  tell 
you  that  the  speaker  who  preceded  the 
congregational  singing  was  Elder  Hugh 
B.  Brown,  member  of  the  Assistants  to 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

These  conferences  furnish  us  the  op- 
portunity to  say  thank  you  to  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  and  the  members  thereof, 
to  the  Chorister  and  Organists,  and  the 
Officers.  Their  devotion  is  commend- 
able. They  have  been  here  since  seven 
as  you  know,  continuing  week  after 
week,  and  month'  after  month,  render- 
ing service.  So  this  is  an  opportunity, 
brothers  and  sisters,  to  say  thank  you. 
We  do  appreciate  what  you  are  doing. 

We  wish  to  express  appreciation  also 
to  the  Berkeley  Stake  for  these  beautiful 
calla  lillies,  which  adorn  the  rostrum, 
and  appreciation  to  the  Tacoma  Stake 
for  3,000  daffodils,  contributed  by  the 
Puyallup  Valley  Daffodil  Festival  Com- 
mittee for  the  beautification  of  this 
building  dtiring  Conference. 

We  express  appreciation  to  the  city 
officials  for  their  efficient  care  in  di- 
recting traffic  this  morning.  You  all 
have  noticed  how  efficiently  they  are 
handling  that,  and  we  wish  them  to 
know  that  we  appreciate  their  coopera- 
tion,— ^the  mayor,  dty  council,  and  all 
who  are  contributing  to  the  safety  of 
the  great  congregations  assembled,  and 
that  we  may  sense  parhaps  more 
definitely  the  size  of  the  ooagr^tiaa 


36 

Sunday,  April  4 

of  which  we  form  a  part  this  morning, 
I  am  going  to  take  two  minutes  to  read 
you  the  following  messages  that  have 
come  in. 

"Television  reception  of  conference 
very  fine.  Great  thrill  for  the  Saints  of 
Mesa."  Tenth  Ward  Bishopric,  Owen 
C  Gray  and  J.  Darwin  Gunnell,  Coun- 
selors. 

"We  are  enjoying  excellent  television 
reception  and  deeply  appreciate  the 
wonderful  opportunity  of  joining  you  in 
General  Conference."  Oregon  City 
Ward. 

This  from  Moreland  Ward  bishopric 
in  the  Portland  Stake:  "Reception  of 
Conference  session  over  KOYN-TV  ex- 
cellent. Thrilling  many  congregations 
and  thousands  throughout  Northwest. 
Congratulations." 

From  the  High  Priests'  Presidency, 
K.  M.  Kingsworth,  in  Portland:  "Recep- 
tion coming  over  KOYN  wonderful.  We 
are  enjoying  it.   May  it  ever  continue." 

From  the  Seattle  Stake  presidency  and 
high  council:  "Please  accept  our  thanks 
for  making  possible  live  telecast  of  124th 
Annual  Conference  for  enjoyment  and 
spiritual  blessing  of  Latter-day  Saints 
and  friends  in  Seattle." 

Tacoma  Stake,  William  Dickson, 
Tacoma  First  Ward  bishopric:  "Televi- 
sion reception  of  Conference  wonder- 
ful." 

W.  O.  Johnson,  Branch  President  of 
McMinnville  Branch,  Portland  Stake: 
"Program  coming  in  splendidly.  Thanks. 
May  we  have  many  more  of  them." 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  George  A.  Freeman,  sons 
Orrin  and  Phillip,  Menlo  Park,  Palo 
Alto  Stake:  "Good  television  reception 
of  Conference.  Greatly  appreciated. 
God  bless  you." 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Bishop  Ellis,  Whittier  First  Ward, 
Whittier,  California:  "Over  400  assem- 
bled in  chapel  viewing  Conference  on 
television.  Reception  perfect.  Con- 
gratulations." 

Lawrence  Crandall  of  the  San  Diego 
Stake  Presidency:  "Television  reception 
of  Conference  is  excellent.  All  Saints  in 
the  wards  of  San  Diego  Stake  enjoying 
Conference  with  you.  God  bless  you 
and  sustain  you." 

President  Julius  B.  Papa  of  Yuba  City, 
California:  "Enjoying  Conference  over 
television  greatly  in  Gridley  Stake. 
Many  for  first  time.  400  Present  in  Yuba 
City  Chapel,  God  bless  you." 

Any  important  messages  or  calls  that 
have  come  to  us  for  persons  supposed  to 
be  in  attendance  at  the  Conference  will 
be  announced  at  the  dismissal  of  the 
meeting  over  the  public  address  system 
of  the  Church.  Similar  messages  coming 
in  will  likewise  be  broadcast  at  the  close 
of  each  general  session  without  further 
notice.  Please  listen  carefully  to  these 
announcements. 

The  closing  song  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  will  be  "He  Watching  Over 
Israel,"  conducted  by  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Lucian  M.  Mecham,  Jr.,  formerly 
president  of  the  Mexican  Mission,  fol- 
lowing which  this  Conference  will  stand 
adjourned  until  2  o'clock  this  afternoon. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the 
anthem,  "He  Watching  Over  Israel." 

Elder  Lucian  M.  Mecham,  Jr.,  formerly 
president  of  the  Mexican  Mission,  of- 
fered the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  Sunday  afternoon  session  of  the 
Conference  was  held  at  2  o'clock  p.m. 
in  the  Tabernacle.  The  Tabemade 
Choir  was  in  att^danoe  and  furnished 
the  choral  music  for  the  session.  Piesi- 
dent  David  O.  McKay,  who  was  presid- 


ing and  conducting  the  meeting  made 

the  following  introductory  remailcs: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


37 


in  Salt  Lake  City  in  the  third  session 
of  the  One  Hundred  Twenty-Fourth 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church. 

For  those  who  are  unable  to  enter 
the  building  and  there  are  thousands, 
apparently,  we  announce  that  these  serv- 
ices are  being  broadcast  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall  over  a  public 
address  system  and  by  television.  These 
services  are  also  being  televised  over 
KSL-TV,  Channel  5  in  Salt  Lake  City 
and  are  being  heard  over  radio  through 
KSL  over  23  radio  stations  in  Utah, 
Idaho,  Arizona,  California,  Oregon,  and 
Wyoming,  the  names  of  which  stations 
have  already  been  announced  to  the 
radio  audience  during  this  pause. 

We  desire  to  express  our  deep  appre- 
ciation to  these  various  radio  stations 
for  their  courtesy  in  making  available 
their  time  and  facilities  for  these  broad- 
casts, and  with  our  expression  we  desire 
to  add  the  following  from  the  Tacoma 
Third  Ward,  Bishop  Preston  Ricks: 
"Receiving  telecast  clearly.  Thanks  to 
you  and  station  KTMT  for  making  it 
possible." 

"San  Bernardino  Saints  delighted  with 
wonderful  TV  reception  of  Conference." 
H.  Duane  Anderson,  San  Bernardino 
Stake  presidency. 

Denver,  in  Colorado:  "Inspired  with 
first  televised  conference  services.  Pic- 
ture excellent.   Hundreds  express  grati- 


tude for  this  blessing."  Denver  Stake 
presidency,  by  Alexander  P.  Thurston, 
senior  member  high  council. 

The  music  for  this  session  will  be 
rendered  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  under 
the  direction  of  Elder  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall, with  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the 
organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the 
Choir  singing  "Lift  Up  Your  Heads, 
O  Ye  Gates." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  Carl  C.  Burton,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  Great  Lakes  Mission. 

"Lift  Up  Your  Heads,  O  Ye  Gates,"  by 
the  Choir. 


The  Choir  sang  the  selection,  "Lift 
Up  Your  Heads,  O  Ye  Gates." 

Elder  Carl  C.  Burton,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  Great  Lakes  Mission,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing 
"Shepherd  Lead  Me." 

After  the  singing  we  shall  listen  to 
President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the 
First  Presidency. 


The  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Shep- 
herd, Lead  Me." 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


HAVE  thought  I  might  ap- 
propriately talk  today  about 
our  Bible.  What  I  want  to 
say  is  of  a  technical  and 
controversial  nature,  and  I 
■have  written  it  out  so  that 
I  might  be  stire  to  say  what  I  want  to 
say.  What  I  shall  say  will  have 
primary  application  to  the  New  Testa- 
ment. 

As  of  today  and  outside  the  Roman 
world,  which  uses  the  Latin  text,  there 
are  two  principal  Greek  texts  of  the 
Bible  used  for  English  translation.  We 


are  today  interested  only  in  the  text  of 
the  New  Testament.  The  first  of  these 
is  the  "Byzantine"  Greek  text.  Our 
King  James  Version  is  a  translation  of 
this  text.  The  second  is  the  "Alex- 
andrian" text  (as  idaitified  by  some 
scholars),  which  is  the  controlling  text 
of  the  translation  found  in  the  Revised 
Versions  of  the  last  three  quarters  of  a 
century.  There  is  a  popular  impression 
that  these  Revised  Versions  are  merely 
corrected  translations  of  the  "Byzan- 
tine" Greek  text.  This  is  not  the  fact. 
Of  these  Revised  Versions,  the  first  ap- 


38 

Sunday,  April  4 

peared  in  1881  (a  British  Version  with 
American  participation),  the  second  in 
1901  (an  American  Version,  largely  a 
duplication  of  the  1881  version),  and 
the  third  in  1946-1952  (an  amended 
American  Version).  In  all  these  trans- 
lations the  "Alexandrian"  Greek  text 
controlled  in  certain  great  essentials. 

The  title  page  of  the  latest  revision — 
the  Revised  Standard  Version  (New 
Testament,  1946) — in  common  with  the 
other  revisions,  is  not  so  fully  revealing 
as  it  might  be.  As  each  of  the  others, 
it  carries  the  impression  that  this  is  a 
further  revision  of  the  King  James  Ver- 
sion, whereas  in  fact  it  is  rather  a  re- 
vision of  the  earlier  revisions. 

The  "Byzantine"  Greek  text,  which 
in  translation  is  our  Bible,  the  King 
James  Version,  is  said  to  have  been  the 
generally  accepted  text  in  all  non- 
Roman  Christendom  from  the  last  half 
of  the  fourth  century,  till  the  middle  of 
the  last  century. 

This  King  James  or  Authorized  Ver- 
sion, "as  far  as  it  is  translated  correctly," 
has  been  the  version  accepted  by  this 
Church  since  it  was  organized.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  undertook,  under 
the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  to  make  a 
revision  of  the  Bible — ^not  a  translation. 
This  work  was  never  completed,  except 
as  to  certain  portions  appearing  in  the 
Pearl  of  Great  Price.  Since  the  work 
was  not  completed,  the  Church  has 
never  formally  adopted  it,  save  as  to  the 
parts  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price. 

At  this  point,  it  ought  to  be  observed 
that  Bible  critics  may,  for  our  purpose, 
be  placed  in  two  schools — ^Extreme 
Textualists  and  Sound  or  High  Textual- 
ists. 

The  Extreme  Textualists  rule  out 
the  whole  of  the  so-called  miraculous 
elements  of  the  Gospels — those  events 
which  lie  outside  the  range  of  known 
laws  of  nature  (as  understood  by  these 
Textualists) — and  brand  all  these  ele- 
ments as  myths,  legends,  popular  exag- 
geration, s)Tnbolism,  allegory.  One 
scholar  has  measured  their  thesis  as 
follows:  "The  Gospels,  as  manipulated 
by  the  uncertain  methods  of  this  sort  of 
aitidsm,  seem  capable  of  yielding  a 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

picture  of  any  sort  of  Jesus  that  the  critic 
desires."  (Hastings,  Encyclopedia,  vol. 
4,  p.  320a— 1928.) 

The  Sound  or  High  Textualists  admit 
the  miraculous  element  but  seem  some- 
times to  treat  it  somewhat  gingerly. 

We  have  now  to  do  with  the  Extreme 
Textualists,  in  considering  these  various 
revisions  of  1881-1885,  1900-1901,  and 
1946-1952. 

Before  going  farther  it  might  be  well 
briefly  to  note  that,  out  of  over  four 
thotisand  known  Greek  manuscripts  (in 
large  part  fragments),  the  Extreme 
Textualists  pin  their  faith  primarily  to 
two  Greek  Codices,  Sinaiticus  (dis- 
covered in  a  conveiit  on  Mt.  Sinai  by 
Tischendorf  in  1844)  and  Vaticanus 
(brought  to  the  Vatican  at  Rome  as 
early  as  1481).  These  are  claimed  to  be 
the  two  oldest  known  vellum  manu- 
scripts. Tischendorf  exploited  Sinaiticus; 
Westcott  and  Hort,  Vaticanus,  using 
Sinaiticus  as  a  supporting  text,  along 
with  Alexandrinus,  sent  as  a  gift  from 
the  Patriarch  of  Constantinople  to 
Charles  I  of  England  in  the  year  1628. 
Westcott  and  Hort  prepared  a  new 
Greek  text  from  these  and  a  few  others 
that  supported  their  readings  (princi- 
pally C  and  D).  A  third  primary 
source  of  recent  criticism  is  the  Chester 
Beatty  Pap5Ti — in  Greek — discovered  in 
1931  in  Egypt.  These  have  been  ex- 
ploited by  Dr.  Kenyon  who  afEirms  they 
are  "the  most  important  Biblical  dis- 
covery since  that  of  the  Codex  Sinaiti- 
cus" (Tischendorf) .  Thus  first  Tischen- 
dorf, then  Westcott  and  Hort,  then 
Kenyon  have  each  had  his  favorite 
manuscripts  which  each  interprets  and 
uses  to  the  maximum  to  develop  in 
text  form  his  Extreme  Textualist  views. 

The  Byzantine  Greek  text — ^which  is 
the  basis  of  our  King  James  Version,  and 
the  Sinaiticus — Vaticanus  text  existed 
side  by  side  apparently  for  almost  the 
first  eight  hundred  years;  they  appear 
to  have  been  in  virtual  competition. 
Then  the  church  as  a  whole  adopted  the 
Byzantine  text  which  became  the  ruling 
text  from  that  time  till  the  challenge  of 
it  in  the  middle  of  the  last  century. 
During  all  this  time,  the  Roman  Church 


PRESIDENT  ].  Rl 

had  its  own  Latin  text — ^that  developed 
into  the  Vulgate. 

Modem  criticism  made  its  appearance 
at  about  the  middle  of  the  1700s.  Once 
begun,  it  steadily  increased  as  time 
went  on.  At  first  it  related  primarily  to 
the  Old  Testament;  then  the  New  Testa- 
ment became  involved,  and  while  the 
whole  Byzantine  text — ^the  Textus  Re- 
ceptus  (in  translation,  the  King  James 
Version)— was  brought  imder  fire,  the 
chief  objective  of  the  Extreme  Textualist 
attack  became  the  Gospels.  By  the  end 
of  the  first  quarter  of  the  1800s,  the  war- 
fare against  the  "Byzantine"  text  was 
open,  vicious,  and  unrelenting.  It  must 
be  remembered  that  the  attack  of  the 
Extreme  Textualists  pivoted  upon  the 
personality  and  character  of  Jesus  of 
Nazareth  and  the  accuracy  and  truth  of 
his  teachings,  doctrines,  and  works. 

For  the  first  three  Christian  centuries, 
and  following  Simon  the  Sorcerer 
(whom  Peter  scathingly  execrated  for 
seeking  to  buy  the  Holy  Ghost  with 
gold — see  Acts  8:17fF),  heretics  and 
heresies,  great  and  small,  sought  to  dis- 
tort or  wipe  out  the  recognition  of  Jesus 
as  Christ.  Time  buried  the  heretics  and 
most  of  the  heresies.  But  one  heresy 
lived  on,  appearing  now  and  again  in 
the  flowing  centuries,  usually  in  the 
dark  corners  of  ecclesiastical  discussions, 
but  sometimes  in  the  open.  I  refer  to 
Arianism  that  nearly  wrecked  the  Chris- 
tian Church  in  the  time  of  Constan- 
tine.  It  is  an  obscure  and  shifting 
doctrine  that,  shortly  put,  and  in  general 
terms,  denies  Godhood  to  the  Christ. 
(Robertson,  History,  Vol.  I,  pp.  385  £F.; 
Hastings,  Encyclopedia,  sub  voce  "Arian- 
ism"; Neander,  History,  Vol.  II,  pp.  403 
ff.;  Schaff,  History  of  the  Christian 
Church,  Vol.  Ill,  p.  620.) 

While  not  now  paraded,  the  doctrine 
lies  behind  the  thinking  and  writings 
of  those  Bible  critics  who  are  grouped 
together  as  Extreme  Textualists.  To 
this  group  (as  already  intimated)  must 
be  charged  the  Bible  revisions  of  the 
last  three  quarters  of  a  century — ^the 
British,  which  the  great  body  of  the 
Christian  Chruch  refused  to  accept; 
the  American,  which  had  no  better  re- 


JBEN  CLARK,  ]R.  39 

ception;  and  the  recent  (1946-1952) 
American  revision  (Revised  Standard 
Version),  which  perpetuates  the  vin- 
acceptable  changes  of  the  two  earlier 
revisions.  The  Greek  manuscripts  re- 
lied upon  by  the  Extreme  Textualists 
seem  all  to  be  tinctured  with  Arianism, 
which  had  its  birth  in  Alexandria,  from 
which  the  text  gets  its  name,  Alex- 
andrian. 

The  translation  found  in  these  various 
revisions,  contains,  on  the  one  hand, 
many  passages  that  in  effect  voice  Arian 
or  near-Arian  concepts,  and,  on  the 
other  hand,  omits  many  passages  that 
contradict  Arian  doctrines.  It  is  affirmed 
that  the  changes  they  have  made  run 
into  thousands — 5337  in  the  Greek  text 
and  36,191  in  the  English  translation. 
In  a  recent  magazine,  Allen  Wikgren  is 
quoted  as  having  observed  in  The  In- 
terpreter's Bible,  that  of  "some  180,000 
words  in  the  New  Testament,  alterations 
amoimted  to  an  estimated  30,000,  or  an 
average  of  4'/^  per  verse." 

For  a  century  and  a  quarter,  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  has  declared  the  King  James  Ver- 
sion of  the  Bible  to  be  the  word  of 
God,  with  a  reservation  as  to  incorrect 
translations  of  the  Greek  text  on  which 
it  was  based.  The  Inspired  Version  of 
the  Prophet,  so  far  as  finished,  sup- 
ports the  King  James  Version  in  all  es- 
sentials on  this  point  of  the  Godhood  of 
Jesus  the  Christ.  With  our  belief  in 
Jesus  as  the  Son  of  God,  the  Only  Be- 
gotten, this  Church  cannot  accept  any 
version  that  takes  from  Jesus  the  Christ 
any  attribute  of  Godhood. 

I  shall  call  attention  to  a  very  few 
only  (some  sixteen)  of  the  thousands  of 
new  renderings  in  these  revisions,  par- 
ticularly the  latest— the  Revised  Stand- 
ard Version.  They  will  show  that  this 
Church  cannot  accept  any  of  these  ver- 
sions as  siting  forth  the  true  record 
of  God's  Word  to  men. 

LriERATURE  OF  THE  NeW  TESTAMENT 

In  the  first  place,  I  must  note  that 
one  of  the  virtues  claimed  by  the  Re- 
visionists for  their  new  work  is  that 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  4 

it  consciously  and  deliberately  sets  about 
to  destroy  the  New  Testament  as  a  book 
of  supreme  classic  literature.  They  have 
fairly  well  succeeded.  They  say  the 
English  of  the  King  James  Version  is 
of  too  much  beauty  and  elegance,  is  in 
English  too  majestic  and  lofty  for  the 
writings  of  New  Testament  times.  I 
merely  ask,  could  any  language  be  too 
great,  too  elegant,  too  beautiful,  too 
lofty,  to  record  the  doings  and  sayings 
of  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  the  Christ? 

Elimination  of  Word  "Miracle" 

I  have  already  noted  that  the  Ex- 
treme Textualists  rule  out  the  whole  of 
the  so-called  miraculous  elements  of  the 
New  Testament  and  brand  them  as 
myths,  legends,  popular  exaggeration, 
symbolism,  allegory.  To  further  this 
thesis  of  theirs,  they  have .  eliminated 
the  word  miracle  whenever  it  occurs  in 
the  New  Testament  (except  in  some  half 
dozen  places)  and  have  substituted  for 
the  word  miracle  the  word  sign.  A 
miracle  may  be  a  sign,  but  a  sign  is  not 
necessarily  a  miracle.  This  attempt  to 
discredit  or  destroy  miracles  by  chang- 
ing the  name  we  give  to  them  seems 
puerile,  yet  over  the  years,  if  not  cor- 
rected, it  would  leave  its  efiFect.  We 
Latter-day  Saints  know  that  Jesus  did 
perform  miracles,  that  his  ancient 
Apostles  performed  them,  and  that 
through  the  exercise  of  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood after  the  order  of  the  Son  of 
God,  those  duly  authorized  perform 
miracles  today.  This  is  our  testimony 
to  the  world.  We  cannot  accept  a  Bible 
text  that  would  take  the  miraculous  out 
of  our  lives.  This  manipulation  is  a 
prop  for  Arianism. 

The  Virgin  Birth  (Matt.  1:25.) 

In  this  connection  it  should  be  noted 
that  the  Revisionists  have  so  manipu- 
lated the  account  of  the  birth  of  Jesus, 
as  recorded  in  Matthew,  as  to  give 
ground  for  the  contention  that  the 
virgin  birth  of  Jesus  is  a  myth.  Matthew 
in  our  Bible  says — speaking  about 
Joseph:  "And  knew  her  not  till  she 
had  brought  forth  her  firstborn  son." 


Second  Day 

The  Inspired  Version  follows  the 
King  James  Version. 

The  Revised  Standard  Version  reads: 
"But  knew  her  not  until  she  had  borne 
a  son,"  which  opens  the  door  for  a 
contention  regarding  Mary's  virginity. 
We  can  admit  no  question  on  this 
point,  which  was  made  certain  in  the 
great  vision  to  Nephi.  (See  1  Nephi 
11:18  ff.)  The  overwhelming  Greek 
Manuscript  authority  (there  are  more 
than  4000  of  them,  mostly  fragments) 
sustains  the  King  James  Version.  This 
is  a  change  that  tends  to  take  away  the 
Christian  concept  of  the  birth  of  Jesus. 
This  bends  toward  Arianism. 

Message  of  the  Heavenly  Host  (Luke 
2:14.) 

In  the  King  James  Version,  the  mes- 
sage of  the  heavenly  host  to  the  shep- 
herds, reads:  "Glory  to  God  in  the 
highest,  and  on  earth  peace,  good  will 
toward  men."  The  Inspired  Version 
follows,  without  essential  change,  the 
King  James  Version.  The  Revisionists 
have  changed  this  to  read:  "Glory  to 
God  in  the  highest,  and  on  earth  peace 
among  men  with  whom  he  is  pleased!" 
Obviously,  the  Revisionists  have  changed 
the  sense  and  scope  of  the  message  from 
a  greeting  and  blessing  to  all  men,  to  a 
message  to  a  restricted  few.  Christ's 
mission  was  for  all  men.  Scholars  a£firm 
this  change  first  comes  into  view  in 
the  second  century  and  disappears  in 
the  fifth.  We  cannot  accept  this  muti- 
lation. 

"The  Son  of  God"  (Mark  1:1.) 

Mark's  opening  sentence  in  the  King 
James  Version  reads  thus:  "The  be- 
ginning of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
the  Son  of  God."  The  Inspired  Ver- 
sion follows  the  King  James.  So  do 
the  Revised  Versions,  but  the  Revision- 
ists have  a  marginal  note  that  casts 
doubt  upon  the  phrase,  "The  Son  of 
God,"  by  noting  that  some  authorities 
omit  these  words,  but  they  do  not  tell 
us  that  these  words  are  said  to  be  all 
but  imiversally  recognized  in  the  manu- 
scripts and  the  writings  of  the  Fathers. 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


41 


At  best,  this  doubt-raising  marginal 
note,*  unexplained,  carries  to  the  unin- 
formed the  idea  that  he  has  a  legiti- 
mate choice  whether  he  will  accept  or 
reject  these  words.  There  is,  on  the 
record,  no  chance  for  a  justifiable  choice. 
Here  is  an  Arianism. 

Christ  the  Creator  (John  1:3-4.) 

In  the  King  James  Version  John  de- 
clares: "Ail  things  were  made  by  him; 
and  without  him  was  not  any  thing 
made  that  was  made.  In  him  was  life; 
and  the  life  was  the  light  of  men."  The 
Revised  Standard  Version  substitutes 
through  for  by  in  the  phrase  made  by 
him.  The  Inspired  Version  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  follows  the  King  James 
Version  in  part,  with  a  different  render- 
ing for  the  fourth  verse:  "In  him  was 
the  gospel,  and  the  gospel  was  the  life, 
and  the  life  was  the  light  of  men." 

But  the  Revisionists  have  cast  a  doubt 
on  these  passages  by  a  marginal  note 
which  adds  an  alternative  reading  which 
omits  and  contracts  the  passage  to 
read:  "Without  him  was  not  anything 
made.  That  which  has  been  made  was 
life  in  him."  Scholars  affirm  that  this 
is  a  known  perversion  brought  in  by 
the  Gnostics  in  the  second  century.  It 
is  an  heretical  change. 

This  is  another  omission  and  change 
affecting  the  dignity  and  personality  of 
Christ. 

The  Son  of  Man  Which  is  in  Heaven 
(John  3:13.) 

John  quotes  Jesus  as  saying  to  Nico^ 
demus: 

"And  no  man  hath  ascended  up  to 
heaven,  but  he  that  came  down  from 
heaven,  even  the  Son  of  man  which  is 

 :   I 

"Dr.  Scrivener,  who  was  one  of  the  scholars  who 
made  the  Revised  Version  of  1881  and  carried  the 
Greek  text  throu^  the  press  (he  and  Dr.  Hort  are 
characterized  by  Dr.  Kenyon  as  "the  two  most  learned 
textual  critics  then  alive  — 1831),  made,  in  his  great 
work,  A  Plain  Introduction  to  the  CntUsism  of  the 
New  Testament  (3rd  edition,  1883),  the  following 
observations  about  these  marginal  readings:  "... 
the  various  readings  recorded  in  the  margin  are 
nothing  better  than  rejected  readings,  deliberately 
refused  a  place  in  the  text,  and  set  in  the  margin, 
if  sometimes  too  lightly,  yet  always  in  a  spirit  of 
fairness  to  the  unlearned  reader  of  Holy  Scriptive." 
(Preface,  p.  ix.) 


in  heaven."  The  Inspired  Version  fol- 
lows the  King  James  Version.  The 
British  revision  of  the  1880's  and  the 
American  Standard  Version  (1900-01) 
print  the  passage  substantially  as  in  the 
King  James  Version,  but  add  a  note 
which  says:  "Many  ancient  authorities 
omit  who  is  in  heaven."  However,  the 
latest  American  revision  (the  Revised 
Standard  Version)  leaves  these  words 
out  of  the  text  and  adds  a  note:  "Other 
ancient  authorities  add  who  is  in 
heaven."  That  is,  here,  as  in  other 
places,  the  doubt  cast  in  the  earlier  re- 
visions is  made  a  certainty  in  this  last 
revision,  and  the  King  James  text  is 
relegated  to  a  note.  Yet  scholars  tell  us 
that  the  omitted  words  are  found  in 
every  Greek  manuscript  in  the  world 
except  five,  in  the  Latin,  Syriac,  and 
other  versions  in  nvimber  totaling  ten, 
and  in  the  works  of  thirty-eight  Fathers, 
and  are  recognized  by  certain  Extreme 
Textualists  as  "quite  above  suspicion." 
Here  again  is  a  change  of  Arian  type, 
tending  to  belittle  Jesus.  We  of  the 
Church  cannot  accept  this  alteration. 

The  Lord's  Prater  (Matt.  6:9-13;  Luke 
11:2-4.) 

In  his  great  Sermon  on  the  Mount, 
Jesus  taught  the  multitude  how  to  pray, 
having  warned  them  against  praying 
in  vain  repetitions  as  the  heathen  do, 
who  "think  that  they  shall  be  heard 
for  their  much  speaking,"  because,  said 
he,  "your  Father  knoweth  what  things 
ye  have  need  of,  before  ye  ask  him." 
Every  Sunday  School  child  knows,  or 
should  know,  the  Lord's  Prayer  found 
in  our  Bible.  I  shall  not  repeat  it.  I 
will  repeat  the  form  found  in  the  last 
revision  (the  Revised  Standard  Version) : 

"Our  Father  who  art  in  heaven. 

Hallowed  be  thy  name. 

Thy  kingdom  come. 

Thy  will  be  done, 

On  earth  as  it  is  in  heaven. 

Give  us  this  day  our  daily  bread; 

And  forgive  us  our  debts. 

As  we  also  have  forgiven  our  debtors; 

And  lead  us  not  into  temptation. 

But  deliver  us  from  evil." 


42  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  4 

The  British  and  first  American  re- 
visions said,  "but  deliver  us  from  the 
evil  one,"  and  there  was  a  further  slight 
difference  between  the  two  earlier  texts. 

We  miss  from  the  foregoing  those 
great  sanctifying  words  that  ended  the 
prayer:  "For  thine  is  the  kingdom,  and 
the  power,  and  the  glory,  for  ever. 
Amen," — ^foimd  in  our  Bible. 

A  marginal  note  in  the  earlier  versions 
reads  substantially  as  in  the  latest  ver- 
sion: "Other  authorities,  some  ancient, 
add,  in  some  form.  For  thine  is  the 
kingdom  and  the  power  and  the  glory, 
forever.  Amen." 

Thus  was  eliminated  from  the  Lord's 
Prayer  that  great  commitment  made  by 
the  Only  Begotten  in  the  Coimcil  of 
Heaven,  as  he  countered  the  proposal 
of  Satan,  the  record  quoting  the  Father, 
"But,  behold,  my  Beloved  Son,  which 
was  my  Beloved  and  Chosen  from  the 
begiiming,  said  unto  me — ^Father,  thy 
will  be  done,  and  the  glory  be  thine 
forever."  (Moses  4:2.) 

The  prayer  as  given  in  Luke  has  been 
considerably  tampered  witL 

Scholars  affirm  the  changes  made  in 
these  prayers  stem  from  the  pen  of 
Marcion,  the  heretic  of  almost  1800 
years  ago.  The  reliance  for  these 
changes  is  placed  in  the  five  manuscripts 
(out  of  the  4000)  adopted  by  the  Ex- 
treme Textualists  and  scholars  say  these 
greatly  disagree  as  among  themselves 
on  this  point. 

The  Church  cannot  accept  a  text  so 
constructed,  eliminating  fundamental 
principles,  as  against  the  King  James 
Version,  supported,  as  it  is  here,  by  the 
Inspired  Version.      •  ; 

The  iNSTmjnoN  of  the  Sacsrament 

(Luke  22:19-20.) 

During  the  Last  Supper  in  the  Upper 
Chamber,  Jesus  instituted  the  sacrament. 
Luke's  account  thereof  is  as  follows: 

"And  he  took  bread,  and  gave  thanks, 
and  brake  it,  and  gave  unto  them,  saying, 
This  is  my  body  which  is  given  for 
you:  this  do  in  remembrance  of  me. 

"Likewise  also  the  cup  after  supper, 
saying,  This  cup  is  the  new  testament 
in  my  blood,  which  is  shed  f<»  you." 


Second  Day 

The  British  Revised  Version  text  was 
in  substance  the  same,  but  a  marginal 
note  said:  "Some  ancient  authorities 
omit  which  is  given  for  you"  (following 
body)  and  "which  is  poured  out  for 
you"  (following  blood).  (The  King 
James  Version  says,  "which  is  shed  for 
you.") 

The  account  in  the  last  revision — 
the  Revised  Standard  Version — reads: 
"And  he  took  bread,  and  when  he  had 
given  thanks  he  broke  it  and  gave  it 
to  them,  saying,  'This  is  my  body  , .  " 
so  omitting  the  final  sentence  regarding 
the  atoning  blood. 

Here  again  the  doubt  that  was  cast 
in  the  first  revisions  by  a  marginal  note, 
becomes  in  the  latest  revision  the  actual 
text,  while  the  King  James  Version 
text  becomes  a  marginal  note  intro- 
duced by  the  words:  "Other  ancient 
authorities  add  ..."  (quoting). 

Thus  the  latest  revision  practically 
completely  eliminates  from  Luke's  ac- 
count of  the  institution  of  the  sacra- 
ment, the  portion  dealing  with  the 
atoning  blood. 

The  accounts  given  in  Matthew 
(26:26-29)  and  in  Mark  (14:22-25)  are 
not  substantially  changed  in  the  re- 
visions from  the  account  given  in  the 
King  James  Version.  But  this  leaves 
the  record  where,  so  far  as  the  general 
reader  knows,  he  may  make  a  choice. 

We  of  the  Church  cannot  go  along 
with  a  text  that  thus  deals  with  the 
elemental  principle  of  Christianity.  This, 
too,  tends  to  Arianism. 

Casting  Otrr  Evil  Sphuts  (Matt.  17:21.) 

The  King  James  Version  records  in 
Matthew  that  when  the  disciples  ques- 
tioned why  they  could  not  cast  out  an 
evil  spirit  from  one  afflicted,  Jesus, 
having  cast  out  the  evil  spirit,  replied: 
"Howbeit  this  kind  goeth  not  out  but 
by  prayer  and  fasting." 

This  declaration  of  Matthew  is 
omitted  in  all  the  revisions  (including 
the  latest),  with  a  marginal  note  read- 
ing: "Other  ancient  authorities  insert 
verse  21,  'But  this  kind  never  comes  out 
except  by  prayer  and  fasting.'"  This 


PRESIDENT  J.  Rl 

elimination  has  been  made  notwith- 
standing scholars  say  that,  as  of  the 
time  of  the  first  revision  (1881)  it  is 
vouched  for  by  every  known  uncial 
manuscript  (manuscripts  written  in 
capital  letters)  but  two,  by  every 
known  cursive  (manuscripts  written  in 
a  running  hand)  but  one,  by  the  Latin 
and  other  versions,  and  by  the  ancient 
Fathers. 

The  account  of  the  same  incident  in 
Mark  (9:14-29)  is  substantially  as  in 
the  King  James  Version,  except  that  the 
phrase,  "and  fasting,"  is  omitted,  with 
a  marginal  note  giving  the  usual  in- 
formation about  "Other  ancient  au- 
thorities add  and  fasting." 

The  Inspired  Version  follows  the 
King  James  Version. 

Here  again  the  uninformed  reader  is 
led  to  believe  he  is  justified  in  a  choice, 
though  in  reality  there  is  no  justification 
for  a  choice.  Fasting  is  an  essential 
element  in  the  exercise  of  spiritual 
powers. 

The  Son  of  Man  Is  Come  to  Save 
(Matt  18:11.) 

Introducing  his  parable  of  the  lost 
sheep  as  recorded  in  Matthew,  Jesus  said, 
as  recorded  in  the  King  Jairies  Version; 
"For  the  Son  of  man  is  come  to  save 
that  which  was  lost." 

The  revisions  omit  this  verse  entirely 
from  their  text,  but  insert  a  marginal 
note  in  their  conventional  form,  varied 
slightly  in  the  latest  revision — ^The  Re- 
vised Standard  Version — "Many  au- 
thorities, some  ancient,  insert  ver.  II 
For  the  Son  of  man  came  to  save  that 
which  was  lost." 

This  verse  has  been  eliminated,  not- 
withstanding scholars  tell  us  that,  as  of 
1881,  it  was  attested  by  every  known 
uncial  manuscript  except  three,  by  every 
known  cursive  except  three,  by  the 
Latin  and  other  versions,  and  1^  the 
early  Fathers,  The  Universal  Eastern 
Church  has  read  it  in  their  churches 
bom  the  beginning. 

Here  ialso  the  uninformed  reader 
feels,  without  justification,  that  he  has 
a  choice  as  to  whether  Jesus  did  or  did 
not  say  this. 


IBEN  CLARK,  JR.  43 

The  Inspired  Version  of  the  Prophet 
follows  the  King  James  Version. 

The  omission  of  this  verse  seems 
clearly  in  the  interest  of  the  Arian  doc- 
trine. 

Our  Church  could  not  accept  this 
elimination. 

The  Agony  in  the  Garden  and  the 
MmKTERiNG  Angel  (Luke  22:43-44.) 

In  Luke's  record  of  Jesus  in  the  Garden 
of  Gethsemane,  he  states  Jesus  prayed: 

"42.  Saying,  Father,  if  thou  be  willing, 
remove  this  cup  from  me:  nevertheless 
not  my  will,  but  thine,  be  done. 

"43.  And  there  appeared  an  angel 
unto  him  from  heaven,  strengthening 
him. 

"44  And  being  in  an  agony  he  prayed 
more  earnestly:  and  his  sweat  was  as  it 
were  great  drops  of  blood  falling  down 
to  the  ground." 

All  the  revisions  print  these  verses 
substantially  as  in  the  King  James  Ver- 
sion, but  add  their  doubt-raising  mar- 
ginal note,  in  their  conventional 
form:  "Many  ancient  authorities  omit 
ver.  43,  44," — the  verses  regarding  the 
strengthening  angel  and  sweat  of  blood. 

These  two  verses  contain  our  sole 
record  of  this  event  found  in  the  New 
Testament.  Scholars  affirm  that  as  of 
1881,  these  verses  were  witnessed  by 
"the  whole  body  of  the  Manuscripts, 
uncial  as  well  as  cursive,  and  by  every 
caicient  Version,"  and  by  "upwards  of 
forty  famous  personages  from  every  part 
of  ancient  Christendom,"  including  the 
Fathers,  "fourteen  of  them  being  as  old, 
— some  of  them,  a  great  deal  older, — 
than  our  oldest  MSS." 

The  justification  offered  for  casting  a 
doubt  upon  them  is  that  they  are  "an 
early  Western  interpolation, ...  a  frag- 
ment from  the  Traditions,  ymtten  or 
oral, ...  an  'evangelic  Tradition,'  there- 
fore, 'rescued  from  oblivion  by  the 
Scribes  of  the  second  century.'" 

The  Inspired  Version,  with  a  slight, 
unimportant  change,  follows  the  King 
James  Version.  Furthermore,  the  ques- 
tion is  settled  for  us  by  modem  revela- 
tion, for  King  Benjamin  predicted  this 
specific  suffering  (Mosiah  3:7)  and  the 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  4 

Lord  himself  recounted  it  in  a  revela- 
tion to  the  Prophet  Joseph.  (D.  &  C. 
19:18.) 

We  cannot  accept  the  elimination  of 
any  part  of  the  record  of  this  great 
moment  of  almost  unbearable  agony. 

The  Words  on  the  Gross  (Luke  23:34.) 

After  Jesus  had  been  nailed  to  the 

cross,  and  it  had  been  planted  in  the 
ground,  Jesus  prayed:  "Father,  forgive 
them;  for  they  know  not  what  they  do." 

All  the  revisions  print  these  words, 
but  add  the  customary  doubt-raising 
marginal  note,  "Some  ancient  authori- 
ties omit  And  Jesus  said,  Father,  forgive 
them;  for  they  know  not  what  they  do." 

Scholars  writing  in  1881  say:  "And 
yet  these  words  are  found  in  every 
known  uncial  and  in  every  known  cur- 
sive Copy,  except  four;  besides  being 
found  in  every  ancient  Version,"  and 
upwards  of  forty  of  the  Fathers,  begin- 
ning with  Irenaeus  of  the  second  cen- 
tury. 

No  other  prayer  offered  by  Jesus  on 
earth  brings  us  closer  to  his  divinity 
than  this  plea  for  his  crucifiers. 

The  Inspired  Version  of  the  Prophet 
gives  the  reading  of  the  King  James  Ver- 
sion, but  inserts  in  brackets  following 
the  words,  "for  they  know  not  what  they 
do,"  the  words,  "(Meaning  the  soldiers 
who  crucified  him)." 

Christ's  Salutation  to  the  Apostles 
IN  THE  Upper  Chamber  (Luke  24:36.) 

Luke's  account  in  the  King  James 
Version  reads,  as  to  the  appearance  of 
Christ  in  the.  Upper  Chamber  the  night 
following  the  morning  of  the  resurrec- 
tion: "And  as  th^^  thus  spake,  Jesus 
himself  stood  in  the  midst  of  them,  and 
saith  unto  them.  Peace  be  unto  you." 

The  Revised  Versions  (British,  1881, 
and  American,  1901)  print,  but  cast 
doubt  upon  the  phrase,  "and  saith  unto 
them.  Peace  be  unto  you,"  with  a  note 
reading,  "Some  ancient  authorities  omit 
and  saith  unto  them,  Peace  be  unto 
you." 

In  this  passage  in  the  latest  revision 
(the  Revised  Standard  Version),  the  Re- 


Seami  Day 

visionists  have  again  made  good  the 
doubt  raised  in  the  earlier  revisions  and 
have  entirely  omitted  the  phrase  from 
the  printed  text,  and  print  a  marginal 
note:  "Other  ancient  authorities  add  and 
said  to  them,  'Peace  to  youl'" 

Yet  our  scholar  of  1881  affirms:  "And 
yet  the  precious  words  ('and  saith  unto 
them.  Peace  be  unto  you')  are  vouched 
for  by  18  uncials  (with  Aleph  A  B  at 
their  head),  and  every  known  cursive 
copy  of  the  Gospels:  by  all  the  Versions: 
and  (as  before)  by  Eusebius, — and  Am- 
brose,— ^by  Chrysostom, — and  Cyril, — 
and  Augustine." 

The  Inspired  Version  expands  the 
King  James  Version  but  does  not  in  any 
way  destroy  the  essential  elements  of  the 
record. 

We  of  the  Church  caimot  surrender 
this  passage. 

Christ  Displays  His  Hands  and  Feet 
(Luke  24:40.) 

In  his  account,  Luke  follows  the 
salutation,  "Peace  be  unto  you,"  with 
a  passage  reading  as  follows,  in  the 
King  James  Version:  "And  when  he  had 
thus  spoken,  he  shewed  them  his  hands 
and  his  feet." 

The  earlier  revisions  (British,  1881, 
American,  1901)  add  to  this  passage  a 
marginal  note  (though  printing  the 
verse  in  their  text) :  "Some  ancient  au- 
thorities omit  ver.  40." 

Once  more,  the  latest  revision — ^the 
Revised  Standard  Version — ^makes  good 
the  doubt  raised  in  the  earlier  revisions, 
and  omits  this  passage  from  the  text 
and  adds  a  marginal  note  reading: 
"Other  ancient  authorities  add  verse  40, 
And  when  he  had  said  this,  he  showed 
them  his  hands  and  his  feet." 

Again  the  doubt  cast  by  the  earlier 
revisions  has  become  the  ruling  text. 

Our  collator  of  the  1880's  comments 
that  the  words  are  found  in  eighteen 
uncials,  beginning  with  Aleph  A  B;  in 
every  known  cursive;  in  all  the  ancient 
versions,  and  he  names  ten  of  the  earlier 
Fathers  who  quote  them. 

The  Inspired  Version  follows  the 
King  James  Version  in  this  passage. 

This  record  regarding  the  resurrected 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


45 


body  of  Jesus  is  of  the  last  importance. 
We  cannot  suffer  the  loss  of  this  inci- 
dent, nor  admit  a  doubt  on  its  testi- 
mony. 

Conjectural  Emendations 

Bishop  Westcott  and  Doctor  Hort,  in 
their  own  built  Greek  text  of  the  New 
Testament,  introduced  a  number  of 
changes — additions  and  omissions — for 
which  they  adduced  no  authority  what- 
ever. A  very  learned  collator  declares 
that  these  conjectural  emendations  are 
"destitute  not  only  of  historical  founda- 
tion, but  of  all  probability,  resulting 
from  the  internal  goodness  of  the  Text 
which  its  adoption  would  force  upon 
us."  Another  collator  likens  the  claims 
urged  for  these  emendations  as  equivalent 
to  a  claim  of  revelation,  and  says:  "If 
these  distinguished  Professors  have  en- 
joyed a  Revelation  as  to  what  the 
Evangelists  actually  wrote,  they  would 
do  well  to  acquaint  the  world  with  the 
fact  at  the  earliest  possible  moment. 
If,  on  the  contrary,  they  are  merely  rely- 
ing on  their  own  inner  consciousness 
for  the  power  of  divining  the  truth  of 
Scripture  at  a  glance, — ^they-  must  be 
prepared  to  find  their  decrees  treated 
with  the  contumely  which  is  due  to  im- 
posture, of  whatever  kind." 

The  Revisionists  responsible  for  the 
Revised  Standard  Version — the  latest 
revision — ^rather  plxmie  themselves  upon 
the  fact  that  they  have  kept  but  one 
"conjectural  emendation"  offered  by 
Westcott  and  Hort.  This  is  not  quite 
accurate,  but  that  point  is  immaterial. 
The  emendation  they  affirm  they  retain 
is  Jude  5. 

The  King  James  Version  reads:  "I  will 
therefore  put  you  in  remembrance, 
though  ye  once  knew  this,  how  that 
the  Lord,  having  saved  the  people  out 
of  the  land  of  Egypt,  afterward  de- 
stroyed them  that  believed  not. 

"6.  And  the  angels  which  kept  not 
their  first  estate,  but  left  their  own 
habitation,  he  hath  reserved  in  ever- 
lasting chains  under  darkness  unto  the 
judgment  of  the  great  day." 

The  particular  phrase  of  interest  to 
the  Latter-day  Saint  is  found  in  v^se  6 


—"the  angels  which  kept  not  their  first 
estate." 

The  English  revision  (1881)  pro- 
posed: 

"5.  Now  I  desire  to  put  you  in  re- 
membrance, though  ye  know  all  things 
once  for  all,  how  that  the  Lord,  having 
saved  a  people  out  of  the  land  of  Egypt, 
afterward  destroyed  them  that  believed 
not.  6.  And  angels  which  kept  not 
their  own  principality,  but  left  their 
proper  habitation,  he  hath  kept  in  ever- 
lasting bonds  under  darkness  unto  the 
judgment  of  the  great  day." 

The  American  Version  (1901)  was 
identical  save  for  two  words:  how  is 
omitted  before  "that  the  Lord,"  and 
which  is  changed  to  that  after  "angels." 

The  Inspired  Version  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  follows  the  King  James  Version. 

The  Revised  Standard  Version — 
which  retains  Westcott  and  Hort's  con- 
jectural emendation — ^reads: 

"5.  Now  I  desire  to  remind  you, 
though  you  were  once  for  all  fully  in- 
formed, that  he  who  saved  a  people 
out  of  the  land  of  Egypt,  afterward  de- 
stroyed those  who  did  not  believe.  6. 
And  the  angels  that  did  not  keep  their 
own  position  but  left  their  proper  dwell- 
ing have  been  kept  by  him  in  eternal 
chains  in  the  nether  gloom  until  the 
judgment  of  the  great  day." 

No  one  with  an  understanding  of  the 
great  truths  announced  in  Abraham  3, 
would  have  eliminated  "first  estate." 
The  expression  "nether  gloom"  may  be 
good  mythology  (we  do  not  know),  but 
it  does  not  describe  any  Christian  con- 
cept. 

This  emendation  sufficiently  estab- 
lishes the  unreliability  of  the  Revised 
Standard  Version,  so  far  as  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  concerned. 

We  shall  consider  one  more  omission, 
perhaps  the  largest  individual  omission 
made  in  all  the  text,  and  certainly 
among  the  most  important — 

The  Last  Twelve  Verses  of  Mark 
(Mark  16:9-20.) 

These  tell  that  Christ  first  appeared  to 
Mary  Magdalene,  who  reported  to  the 
disciples,  But  they  believed  not;  then  of 


46  GENERAL  ( 

Sunday,  April  4 

the  appearance  of  Jesus  to  the  two 
disciples  on  the  way  to  Emmaus,  who 
reported  to  the  disciples,  who  still  be- 
lieved not;  then  of  the  appearance  to  the 
eleven  who  sat  at  meat,  whom  he  re- 
proved for  their  unbelief  and  hardness 
of  heart,  and  then  commissioned  them 
to  go  into  all  the  world  and  preach  the 
gospel,  telling  them  of  the  signs  that 
would  follow  the  believer,  with  their 
powers  to  heal  the  sick;  and  finally  of 
Christ's  ascension  into  heaven  sitting  on 
the  right  hand  of  God,  with  the  disciples 
scattering  to  preach  to  the  people,  "the 
Lord  working  with  them,  and  con- 
firming the  word  with  signs  following." 

It  is  in  this  section  of  Mark  that  there 
occurs  that  passage  quoted  by  President 
McKay  this  morning,  "Go  ye  into  all 
the  world,  and  preach  the  gospel  to 
every  creature." 

The  earlier  Revised  Versions  (British, 
1881,  American,  1901)  print  these  pas- 
sages as  part  of  the  text,  but  leave  extra 
space  between  verses  8  and  9  of  the 
text,  so  suggesting  that  something  is 
wrong.  They  add  this  marginal  note: 
"The  two  oldest  Greek  manuscripts, 
and  some  other  authorities,  omit  from 
ver.  9  to  the  end.  Some  other  authori- 
ties have  a  dififerent  ending  to  the  Gos- 
pel." 

The  Revised  Standard  Version  (again 
making  the  earlier  doubt  cast  a  near 
certainty  in  their  text),  omits  these 
verses  (Mark  16:9-20)  from  the  text 
and  prints  them  as  a  marginal  note, 
beginning:  "Other  texts  and  versions 
add  as  16:9-20  the  following  passage:" 
Then  follow  the  verses  named. 

One  collator  (1881)  says  these  verses 
"are  recognized  by  every  one  of  the 
Versions,"  axe  "attested  by  every  known 
Copy,  except  two  of  bad  character:  by 
a  mighty  chorus  of  Fathers:  by  the  un- 
faltering Tradition  of  the  Church  uni- 
versal." And  a  second  collator  of  the 
same  era  affirms  that  he  defends  these 
verses  "without  the  slightest  misgiving." 
Referring  to  the  first  noted  collator,  the 
second  one  says  that  the  first  "has  now 
thrown  a  stream  of  light  upon  the 
controversy"  in  a  tone  of  "one  who  is 
conscious  of  having  triumphantly  main- 


SeeotuI  Day 

tained  a  cause  which  is  very  precious 

to  him." 

The  elimination  of  these  last  twelve 
verses  of  Mark  would  undoubtedly  add 
comfort  to  the  Arians.  If  this  whole 
record  could  be  discredited,  their  cause 
would  be  that  much  advanced.  It  is 
gratifying  to  note  that  the  great  scholar 
Scrivener  thought  his  contemporary  Bur- 
gon  had  successfully  established  their 
authenticity. 

It  is  not  opportune  now  to  discuss 
almost  innumerable  instances  from 
among  the  thousands  of  changes  by  the 
Revisionists.  Many,  many  of  them  are 
on  a  par  with  those  we  have  mentioned. 
Enough  has  been  said  to  show  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  may  not  safely  accept 
the  latest  revision  as  containing  for 
them  the  word  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
for  his  children,  nor  a  dependable  rec- 
ord of  the  work  and  mission  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  We  must  cling  to 
the  text  that  has  guided  us  for  a  century 
and  a  quarter. 

We  will  close  by  quoting  a  few  sen- 
tences from  Dr.  Kenyon,  who  seems 
more  than  any  other  to  be  today,  the 
leader  of  the  Extreme  Textualists — ^to  be 
looked  up  to  by  the  rest — and  who  is 
more  tolerant  of  contrary  opinions  than 
some  others.  In  the  concluding  para- 
graphs of  his  book.  Our  Bible  and  the 
Ancient  Mmuscripts  (1948),  he  dis- 
cusses the  Revised  Versions  as  compared 
with  the  King  James  Version,  and 
while  never  surrendering  the  claim  of 
superiority  for  the  revisions,  he  does 
yield  these  concessions: 

"More  than  fifty  years  have  now 
passed  since  the  publication  of  the  Re- 
vised Version  [British],  and  the  dust 
of  the  original  controversy  has  had  time 
to  die  down.  In  less  than  that  time  the 
Authorised  Version  [King  James]  drove 
the  Geneva  Bible  from  the  field;  but 
there  is  no  sign  of  a  similar  victory  of 
the  Revised  over  the  Authorised.  The 
general  verdict  is,  we  think,  this.  There 
is  no  doubt  that  the  Revised  represents, 
in  the  New  Testament,  a  very  superior 
Greek  text." 

This  is  the  Extreme  Textualist  view, 
but  not  the  view  of  ihe  opposing  school 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 


47 


— ^the  High  or  Sound  Textualist.  Ken- 
yon  continues: 

"There  is  no  doubt  that  in  very  many 
places,  especially  in  the  prophetical  and 
poetical  books  of  the  Old  Testament  and 
in  the  Epistles  in  the  New,  it  makes  the 
meaning  clearer  and  represents  the 
original  more  accurately.  On  both 
these  grounds  the  Revised  Version  is 
indispensable  for  anyone  who  really 
wishes  to  study  the  Bible.  On  the  other 
hand,  it  is  universally  felt  that  very 
many  of  the  verbal  changes  introduced 
by  the  Revisers,  especiklly  in  the  Gos- 
pels (where  they  are  more  noticeable 
because  of  the  greater  familiarity  of 
these  books),  are  xmnecessary  and  dis- 
turbing. ...  In  the  Gospels  the  sense 
of  discomfort  from  the  constant  changes 
of  the  familiar  words  is  too  great,  and 
the  changes,  where  they  do  not  rest  on 
a  change  in  the  text  translated,  are  un- 
necessary. ...  It  is  true  that  the  Au- 
thorised Version  [King  James]  has 
struck  its  roots  too  deeply  into  our  lan- 
guage and  literature,  and  is  itself  too 
great  a  monument  of  literary  art,  to 
be  dispossessed  without  a  preponderating 
balance  of  loss.  We  can  no  more  do 
without  the  Authorised  Version  [King 
James]  than  we  can  do  without  Shake- 
speare and  Bacon.  . '.  .  Both  are  now 
essential  parts  of  our  heritage;  and  the 


final  verdict  must  be:  The  Revised  for 
study,  the  Authorised  for  reading." 
(Kenyon,  Our  Bible,  pp.  243-44) 

This  may  be  the  final  verdict  where 
there  is  not  too  much  concern  over 
Arian  doctrines  denying  Godhood  to 
Jesus,  and  other  erroneous  doctrines,  but 
to  the  Latter-day  Saint,  the  final  verdict 
mu^t  be  that  no  text  that  minimizes  or 
denies  the  Godhood  of  Jesus,  can  be 
regarded  as  the  word  of  God,  no  matter 
how  old  and  respected  the  manuscript 
may  be  which  sets  out  such  views. 

To  the  Latter-day  Saint,  Jesus  was  the 
Christ,  the  Only  Begotten,  the  Son  of 
God,  a  member  of  the  Trinity.  All  our 
modern  scriptures  are  to  this  point,  and 
the  true  ancient  scriptures  will  neither 
take  away  from,  nor  destroy  this  ever- 
lasting truth. 

God  grant  to  each  and  every  of  us 
this  priceless  testimony,  I  ask,  in  Jesus' 
name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  of  the 
First  Presidency,  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  S.  Dil- 
worth  Young,  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Antoine  R.  Ivins. 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


•N  Tuesday,  April  6,  1830,  six 
i  men  gathered  in  the  home  of 
i  the  Whitmer  family  and  or- 
S  ganized  the  Church.  I  can 
remember  with  what  surprise 
I  learned  for  the  first  time, 
years  ago,  that  it  did  not  happen  on  a 
Sunday.  Apparently  the  sixth  day  of 
April  was  more  important  than  the  day 
of  the  week.  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet, 
on  the  day  of  the  organization  of  the 
Church,  ordained  Oliver  Cowdery  to 
be  one  of  the  Presiding  Elders;  Oliver 
Cowdery  ordained  Joseph  Smith  to  be 
one  of  the  Presiding  Elders.  Thus  there 


were  two  presiding  officers  over  four 
others. 

Last  night  I  sat  with  the  assembled 
multitude  who  filled  this  building.  Re- 
ports said  there  were  in  the  neighbor- 
hood of  nine  thousand  men  here.  If 
we  should  take  all  of  the  men  who 
are  presiding  officers  in  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood,  the  stake  presidencies  who 
guide  them  in  their  work  and  the 
high  councilmen  who  assist  the  stake 
presidencies  in  directing  the  efforts  of 
the  presidencies  of  quorums,  and  put 
them  in  this  building,  the  group  would 
be  just  about  as  large  as  the  number 


48 

Sunday,  April  4 

here  last  night.  In  124  years,  the 
Church  and  its  Melchizedek  Priesthood 
has  grown  sufficiently  so  that  officers 
would  now  fill  this  building.  The 
bishoprics  or  officers  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  are  not  included  in  the  total. 

I  do  not  detect  that  Joseph  Smith 
ever  lacked  confidence  in  the  destiny 
of  the  Church.  How  much  of  our.  day 
he  could  see  I  do  not  know.  I  suspect 
the  Lord  showed  him  the  ultimate 
end,  if  not  all  of  the  immediate  steps. 
I  always  marvel  that  he  did  not  waver 
as  to  what  was  going  to  be  accom- 
plished. He  did  not  set  a  timetable, 
but  the  assurance  is  there  for  all  of 
us  to  read,  and  to  understand  that 
the  Church  will  fill  the  earth.  We 
are  now  well  on  the  way.  We  should 
not  waver  ourselves  because  it  carmot 
be  stopped.  From  the  beginning  with 
two  officers  we  have  grown  until  those 
presiding  could  barely  squeeze  into  this 
tabernacle. 

We  have  been  a  long  time  learning 
how  to  use  presiding  authority.  Offi- 
cers have  been  appointed  by  the  hun- 
dreds and  have  not  known  what  to  do 
with  their  appointments.  I  believe 
there  is,  and  has  been  going  on  for  some 
time,  a  new  awakening  in  the  hearts  of 
the  men  who  handle  the  great  organiza- 
tion of  the  priesthood.  They  are  learning 
how  to  preside  and  to  conduct  their 
affairs  so  that  the  body  of  the  priesthood 
is  beginning  to  take  its  place. 

I  have  on  my  desk  a  number  of 
statistics  which  would  bear  out  that 
thought.  I  should  like  to  refer  to  just 
two  of  them  which  I  think  are  im- 
portant at  this  moment. 

There  is  a  quorum  of  elders  in  a  city 
not  far  from  here.  (I  shall  not  identify 
it.)  The  members  of  this  quorum  are 
composed  largely  of  men  who  do  shift- 
work; consequently  their  time  is  eaten 
into  at  the  moments  when  they  should 
be  attending  their  meetings.  That  quo- 
rum of  elders,  vmder  the  direction  of  a 
president  who  seems  to  know  how  to 
do  it,  with  the  able  assistance  of  two 
very  splendid  counselors,  has  had  for 
the  past  two  or  three  months,  if  the 
facts  are  reported  correctly,  fifty-five 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dan 

percent  of  his  men  attending  the  weekly 
morning  priesthood  meeting.  He  took 
sixty  percent  of  them  to  the  monthly 

griesthood  meeting  of  the  stake.  He 
as  them  organized  so  that  there  is  not 
a  class  in  the  Sunday  School  of  his 
ward,  but  where  one  of  the  elders  is 
assigned  to  sit  there,  with  the  lesson  all 
prepared,  ready  to  take  part  in  case 
the  regular  teacher  should  fail  to  come 
or  should  need  assistance. 

The  same  thing  is  donei  in  the  other 
auxiliaries,  in  case  they  are  needed. 
Such  is  the  possibility  of  quorums  of  the 
priesthood  if  they  recognize  the  need. 
The  remarkable  thing  about  it  is  that 
there  is  not  a  man  who  holds  the 
priesthood  but  what  if  he  feels  neces- 
sary and  wanted  leaps  to  the  cause. 

Your  job,  brethren,  is  to  make  them 
feel  necessary  and  wanted. 

Another  instance:  There  is  taking  part 
in  a  bit  of  work  a  large  body  of  the  Mel- 
chizedek Priesthood  quorums  from  about 
135  stakes.  I  estimate  there  are  some- 
where in  the  neighborhood  of  a  thou- 
sand quorums.  In  one  item,  that  of 
whether  or  not  the  presidents  of  the 
quorums  and  their  counselors  will  visit 
their  members  often  to  encourage  them, 
there  has  been  an  improvement  of  more 
than  four  hundred  percent.  Now,  that 
is  a  statistic.  I  do  not  like  statistics, 
but  I  would  submit  to  you  that  when 
the  president  of  a  quorum,  and  his  coun- 
selors, pick  up  their  hats  and  their 
coats  and  with  courage  in  their  hearts 
and  humility  in  their  souls,  leave  their 
firesides  to  go  out  and  find  their  breth- 
ren of  the  priesthood,  to  warm  them  up 
and  make  them  feel  necessary,  that 
ceases  to  be  a  statistic  but  begins  to 
approach  what  the  Savior  must  have 
meant  when  he  said,  "Greater  love  hath 
no  man  than  this.  .  .  ."  (John  15:13.) 
Surely  they  are  finding  their  friends. 
If  they  will  keep  it  up,  the  fruits  of 
that  action  alone  will  activate  their 
brethren  until  there  will  not  be  any 
necessity  for  doubling  of  positions  in 
the  various  wards  and  auxiliaries  of  the 
Church.  It  will  also  have  its  effect  upon 
the  home.  When  the  Church  was  organ- 
ized with  six  members  in  1830,  it  was 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 


49 


prophesied  that  it  would  fill  the  earth. 
I  should  like  to  say  this  ahout  a  man 
and  a  wife  and  four  children.  They 
make  six.  Whenever  any  man  in  this 
Church  takes  his  proper  place  in  the 
home  as  head  of  that  home,  under  the 
righteousness  of  the  priesthood,  and 
takes  care  of  his  family  the  way  he 
should,  raising  his  children  to  believe, 
to  have  faith,  and  to  accept  the  princi- 
ples, the  ultimate  destiny  of  that  family, 
the  final  end  to  that  man  will  be  the 
same  as  though  he  had  organized  a 
church.  In  the  final  accounting,  his 
place  will  be  so  high  that  his  six  will 
have  swelled  into  a  multitude.  So  we 
may,  ourselves,  brethren,  do  things 
which  will  duplicate  for  us,  alone,  what 
the  Prophet  has  done  so  nobly  for  us 
all. 

Well,  that  is  using  the  priesthood.  I 
have  often  wondered  what  would  hap- 
pen to  a  man  who  suddenly  found  him- 
self without  it.  Many  of  us  do  not 
care  much  about  it  and  let  it  go,  but 
suppose  we  did  not  have  it?  Suppose 
we  could  not  use  it?  Suppose  we  sud- 
denly were  told  we  could  not  exercise  it? 
I  had  such  an  experience  one  time 
during  World  War  II.  My  son  had 
occasion  to  come  home  on  a  furlough 
from  his  army  camp.  It  was  during 
the  time  that  conference  was  being 
held,  and  in  obedience  to  the  request  of 
the  government,  the  Church  had  ceased 
to  hold  its  meetings  in  this  building  but 
was  holding  them  in  the  Assembly 
Hall.  Consequently,  because  of  its  size, 
admission  had  to  be  by  ticket.  Unless 
a  man  had  a  presiding  position  in  the 
Church,  he  could  not  get  a  ticket.  There 
was  just  not  enough  room  to  have  any- 
body come  but  the  stake  and  ward 
leaders.  The  Presidency  of  the  Church 
in  their  kindness,  thinking  of  these 
boys  who  needed  an  extra  lift,  saw  to 
it  that  any  boy  who  came  home-  on  a 
furlough  could  have  a  ticket  and  get 
in.  I  recall  bringing  my  son  down 
from  Ogden  and  stopping  at  the  south 
gate  and  watching  him  go  through.  As 
the  guard  let  him  pass  and  closed  the 


gate  in  my  face,  I  pressed  up  against  the 
bars,  watching  him  as  he  finally  disap- 
peared into  the  open  door  of  the  As' 
sembly  Hall.  And  then  I  think  I  knew 
what  it  means  if  a  person  suddenly  can- 
not do  what  he  would  like  to  do  in  this 
Church,  cannot  associate  with  those 
with  whom  he  would  like  to  associate. 
I  was  completely  cut  o£E  from  my  rights. 
I  held  the  priesthood,  but  I  could  not 
exercise  it.  There  were  doorkeepers  and 
attendants,  and  gardeners,  and  ushers 
there — but  I  was  not  allowed  to  enter. 
I  turned  away  with  the  dreadful  feeling 
of  being  left  out.  I  hope  I  never  have 
a  similar  experience  again.  It  was  a 
lesson  to  me  of  what  could  happen  to 
me  if  I  lost  my  rights.  I  do  not  want 
to  lose  my  rights.  I  want  to  be  able, 
when  the  time  comes,  to  walk  through 
that  gate  and  meet  my  family  and  my 
loved  ones  and  then  go  on  to  that  destiny 
which  is  reserved  for  those  who  desire 
to  be  righteous.  I  believe  I  echo  the 
feeling  of  everybody  who  holds  the 
priesthood  or  who  is  the  wife  or  child 
of  one  who  holds  such  priesthood. 

I  can  think  of  one  scriptxire  I  should 
like  to  apply  to  you,  you  men  who  hold 
the  priesthood  and  who  preside  over  the 
priesthood,  because  without  your  active 
presidency,  nothing  much  will  happen. 
In  this  Church,  men  have  been  taught 
to  wait  until  they  are  appointed  to  do 
something;  men  normally  do  not  volun- 
teer to  hold  office  or  perform  service. 
That  is  a  traditional  method.  So  if 
you  want  these  men  to  work,  brethren, 
you  must  go  after  them,  you  must  meet 
them,  you  must  visit  them,  and  you 
must  make  them  feel  necessary  and 
wanted.    Then  watch  them  respond.. 

This  is  the  scripture: 

Verily  I  say,  men  should  be  anxiously 
engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and  do  many 
things  of  their  own  free  will,  and  bring  to 
pass  much  righteousness.  (D.  &  C.  58:27.) 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  do  it,  I 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Christ  Amen. 


50 

Sunday,  April  4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 
Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


Second  Day 


j^s.wc'jj'.j^^-jY  BELOVED  brethren  and  sis- 
'     "     '  ters:  My  wife  once  asked 
I  Father,  "Do  you  ever  get 
over  being  nervous  when 
you  speak  to  the  confer- 
ence?"   And  he  said,  "I 
haven't  yet."  And  neither  have  I. 

I  seek  an  interest  in  your  faith  and 
prayers,  that  the  testimony  which  I  may 
endeavor  to  bear  may  be  directed  by 
the  Spirit  of  our  heavenly  Father.  We 
have  hstened  to  some  wonderful  testi- 
monies today.  I  hope  that  mine  may 
be  in  full  harmony  with  what  has  been 
said. 

There  are  many  things  for  which  I 
am  truly  grateful,  especially  the  testi- 
mony that  I  have  as  to  the  reality  of 
the  Sonship  of  the  Christ,  that  he  lives, 
that  he  has  done  a  wonderful  service 
for  you  and  me  and  that  he  has  pre- 
pared the  plan  for  us,  which,  if  fol- 
lowed, will  give  us  the  joy  for  which 
the  Book  of  Mormon  says  that  man 
exists,  and  will  bring  us  back  into  the 
presence  of  God  with  the  ultimate  pos- 
sibility, if  we  attain  to  perfection,  of 
Godhood. 

There  are  many  things  requisite  to 
that.  President  Richards  referred  to 
one  of  the  most  important  of  them  to- 
day, and  that  is  the  family  organization 
entered  into  with  the  approval  and 
under  the  authority  of  the  priesthood 
of  God,  sealed  by  a  servant  of  God 
and  under  the  holy  spirit  of  promise. 

It  should  be  our  purpose,  brethren 
and  sisters,  as  we  approach  this  situa- 
tion, to  do  it  in  all  seriousness,  under- 
standing its  tremendous  potentialities 
and  responsibilities,  with  a  determina- 
tion in  our  hearts  that  we  will  do 
everything  we  possibly  can  to  make  it 
a  success  and  to  enjoy  in  that  relation- 
ship the  Spirit  of  God,  our  heavenly 
FaAer. 

One  of  my  friends,  one  day,  in  talk- 
ing to  me,  said,  "You  know,  Antoine,  if 
I  were  God,  I  would  have  done  things 
differently,"  and  I  said,  "How?"  "Well," 


he  said,  "in  the  first  place  I  would  have 
fixed  it  up  so  that  whenever  a  man 
married  a  woman,  he  would  have  been 
happy." 

I  prefer  to  think  he  was  talking  from 
observation  rather  than  experience,  but 
it  is  a  fact  that  throughout  the  world 
a  tremendously  large  proportion — too 
large  a  proportion — of  the  marriages 
that  are  entered  into  do  not  produce 
the  desired  happiness.  In  order  to 
guarantee  it  there  must  be  a  proper 
foundation  for  it.  I  have  been  trying 
today  to  think  of  some  of  the  founda- 
tion stones;  and  who  should  lay  them, 
as  well  as  when  the  laying  of  them 
should  begin. 

It  seems  to  me  that  the  purpose  of  the 
family  relationship  is  to  furnish  bodies 
to  spirits  who  are  waiting  the  opportunity 
to  tabernacle  in  the  flesh.  I  have  come 
to  think  that  when  we  assume  the 
obligation  of  offering  such  a  tabernacle, 
we  should  be  equipped,  if  possible,  to 
produce  a  perfect  one,  and  to  that  end 
our  lives  must  be  well-nigh  perfect  as 
to  chastity  and  moral  purpose. 

I  believe  the  foundation  should  be 
laid  in  the  beginning  by  the  parents 
who,  when  entering  into  marriage, 
should  give  due  consideration  to  their 
anticipated  children.  Those  of  you  who 
are  beginning  now,  and  those  of  you 
who  are  in  the  process  of  rearing  fami- 
lies, should  bear  that  in  mind  for  it  is 
incumbent  upon  you  to  lay  the  founda- 
tion stones  for  the  happy  marriages  of 
your  children,  to  teach  them  the  re- 
sponsibility of  it,  so  that  as  they  ap- 
proach that  age,  an  age  when  there  are 
certain  urges  developing  within  the 
human  body,  that  they  should  have 
a  high  moral  and  religious  purpose  and 
be  able  to  dominate  those  impulses, 
bringing  them  under  absolute  subjec- 
tion, so  that  when  the  time  comes,  the 
contracting  parties  can  enter  into  the 
temple  of  God  and  make  the  promises 
that  are  made  therein  to  each  other, 
realizing  that  they  have  a  right  to 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


51 


do  it.  There  is  nothing  that  will  tend 
to  make  a  marriage  happier  than  faith 
in  each  other,  and  there  is  nothing, 
I  think,  that  will  produce  greater  faith 
than  the  testimony  of  each  to  the  other, 
of  a  pure  previous  life. 

The  physical  dangers  from  the  non- 
observance  of  the  law  of  chastity  can 
well  be  overcome,  but  I  have  never 
yet  found  anybody  who  could  say  that 
the  moral  effects  of  its  infringement 
could  be  entirely  overcome  and  forgot- 
ten. It  is  true  that  there  is  a  law  of 
repentance  and  forgiveness  and  all  that, 
but  how  much  better  it  is  when  we 
begin  life  in  that  capacity,  if  we  do  not 
have  to  invoke  that  law  for  that  par- 
ticular offense.  I  believe  it  is  possible 
for  fathers  and  mothers,  if  they  set  the 
example,  and  teach  under  the  Spirit 
of  God,  to  get  close  enough  to  their 
children  to  lay  such  a  foundation. 

After  having  laid  the  stone,  then 
they  must  build  upon  it,  and  that  build- 
ing must  be  the  reflection  of  a  chaste, 
virtuous,  honest,  upright  life  on  the 
part  of  the  father  and  mother  of  the 
family.  You  know  and  I  know  that  does 
not  always  exist,  but  it  should  always 
exist,  when  a  family  starts  out. 

Children  should  be  taught  that  there 
is  a  greater  likelihood  of  swcess.  if  the 
contracting  parties  have  community  of 
interests.  It  may  not  always  be  im- 
perative, I  presimie,  that  they  should 
belong  to  the  same  church,  but  the 
chances  are  better  if  they  do.  It  may 
not  always  be  necessary  that  they  have 
the  same  backgroimd,  but  the  chances 
are  better  if  they  do,  and  the  chances 
are  always  better  if  they  do  not  rush 
into  the  union  thoughtlessly,  not  im- 
derstanding  each  other.  Then  they 
should  be  taught  that  there  may  be  ob- 
stacles to  surmoimt  as  they  move  along 
together  in  married  life;  that  victory 
over  these  obstacle?  is  what  develops 
strength  and  power  and  ability.  I  do 
not  Kttow  whether  we  would  have  been 
so  much  better  off  if  He  had  made  it 
so  there  would  never  have  been  any 
sorrow  come  into  a  family  oiKanization 
because  I  think  that  is  one  of  the  ways 
God  has  of  testing  us  and  mellowing 


us.  When  we  survive  them,  when  we 
can  put  our  arms  around  each  other  in 
a  mutual  feeling  of  faith  and  of  trust 
and  reliance,  then  we  develop  from 
those  obstacles.  That,  brethren  and 
sisters,  I  believe,  is  our  duty  to  our 
children,  to  teach  them  so  that  when 
they  enter  into  this  relationship  they 
will  be  sweet  and  clean,  with  faith  in 
God,  realizing  that  the  marriage  they 
celebrate  will  not  end  with  this  life, 
but  that  it  is  to  be  for  all  eternity,  and, 
consequently,  it  should  be  properly 
done  and  done  under  the  inspiration  of 
the  Spirit  of  God.  Then,  I  believe,  it 
would  always  be  safe. 

But  after  having  gone  that  far, 
brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  not  always 
safe.  There  are  too  many  cases  where 
older  people  fail.  Many  of  the  things 
which  disrupt  families  are  trivial  in  the 
extreme,  and  many  of  them  come  about, 
just  because  people  cannot  bring  them- 
selves to  acloiowledge  that  the  things 
they  do  they  ought  not  to  do  and  to 
try  to  make  adjustments  for  them  with 
each  other. 

It  we  could,  under  the  inspiration  of 
our  heavenly  Father,  find  a  few  of  the 
solutions  as  we  grow  older,  it  would 
be  much  easier  for  many  of  us.  The 
court  records  tell  us  that  these  things 
do  happen.  They  ought  never  to  hap- 
pen in  a  good  Latter-day  Saint  family. 

Our  efforts  should  be  to  so  live  that 
we  will  have  claim  upon  our  heavenly 
Father  for  his  Spirit  to  help  us  over 
these  rough  places,  so  that  the  example 
we  set  to  our  growing  children,  and  to 
their  children,  when  they  come  along, 
will  be  one  above  reproach. 

The  family,  we  have  been  told,  is  the 
foundation  stone  of  our  society.  It  is 
not  brought  together  just  that  we  may 
enjoy  each  other's  association  here.  As 
I  have  suggested,  it  has  a  higher,  more 
spiritual  purpose,  and  the  relationships 
that  are  entered  into  in  the  family 
should  always  be  directed  by  the  Spirit 
of  C3od.  If  that  could  be,  we  would 
always  be  happy  in  that  relationship, 
and  then  we  would  have  a  solidarity 
in  our  organization  that  would  astound 
the  world. 


52 

Sunday,  April  4 

I  do  not  want  to  say  more  today,  but 
I  plead,  brethren  and  sisters,  for  an  ef- 
fort on  our  part  to  so  instil  in  the  hearts 
and  minds  of  growing  children,  who 
are  our  responsibility,  a  desire  to  make 
this  the  highest  social  relationship  that 
there  is,  a  grand,  glorious  religious  privi- 
lege entered  into  with  the  approval  of 
the  priesthood  of  God,  with  a  determina- 
tion that  nothing  under  heaven  shall 
ever  disrupt  it. 

Giod  bless  us  in  it,  I  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Jesvs.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  of  the  Krst 


GEmRAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dau 

Council  of  Seventy.  The  Choir  and 
Congregation  will  now  join  in  singing, 
"Redeemer  of  Israel,"  following  which 
we  will  hear  from .  Elder  LeGrand 
Richards. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined 
in  singing  the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of 
Israel." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  LeGrand  Richards,  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us. 
Elder  Richards  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson. 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  FEEL  humble,  my  brothers  and 
I  sisters,  as  I  occupy  this  posi- 
tion. I  pray  that  I  may  en- 
s';, ; joy  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  for 
the  few  moments  that  I  am 
"""""  here.  Since  our  last  confer- 
ence, I  have  had  the  privilege,  by  ap- 
pointment of  the  First  Presidency,  of 
visiting  the  islands  of  the  Pacific,  and 
now  I  think  I  can  understand  why 
Brother  Matthew  Cowley  loved  thoise 
colonies  and  people  as  he  did,  because 
I  found  the  love  they  had  in  their 
hearts  for  him.  It  was  while  I  was  in 
New  Zealand  that  I  received  the  word 
of  his  passing.  Those  people  truly  love 
him,  and  as  you  travel  through  the 
Church  and  you  feel  the  faith  and  the 
spirit  of  the  members  in  whichever 
land  you  happen  to  go,  be  it  in  those 
lands,  or  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  or  in 
Europe,  you  cannot  help  but  be  im- 
pressed with  the  words  of  the  Apostle 
Paul,  when  he  said: 

For  ye  are  all  the  children  of  God  by 
faith  in  Christ  Jesus. 

For  as  many  of  you  as  have  been  bap- 
tized into  Christ  have  put  on  Christ. 

There  is  neither  Jew  nor  Greek,  there  is 
neither  bond  nor  free,  there  is  neither 
male  nor  female:  for  ye  are  all  one  in 
Qirist  lesus.  (GaL  3:26-28.) 


And  that  to  me  is  one  of  the  marvel- 
ous things  about  this  Church,  about 
which  President  McKay  spoke  this 
morning,  when  he  told  of  the  aii- 
nouncement  the  Lord  made  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  that  a  marvelous  work 
was  about  to  come  forth  among  the 
children  of  men.  The  faith  and  the 
unity  and  the  oneness  that  exists  among 
the  Saints  of  God  wherever  you  find 
them,  whatever  their  color  might  be, 
is  a  wonderful  thing  to  me. 

And  another  is  the  marvelous  feeling 
of  faith  that  the  Lord  plants  in  the 
hearts  of  the  missionaries.  I  have  seen 
missionaries  in  the  field  who  would 
gladly  have  given  their  lives  for  the 
testimony  of  the  truth  that  the  Lord 
had  given  to  them. 

We  had  a  missionary  in  our  mission, 
who  was  on  his  second  mission,  and 
he  told  of  when  he  was  on  his  first 
mission.  While  at  lunch,  two  men  rode 
up  on  horseback  and  said,  "Aren't  you 
holding  a  meeting  this  afternoon?"  and 
he  said,  "No,  we  hadn't  planned  on  it." 
"Well,"  the  man  said,  "there  is  a  whole 
group  over  at  the  chapel  waiting  for 
you,  and  they  expect  you  to  come."  So 
the  missionary  said,  "We  will  be  right 
over/'  and  when  they  arrived  they 


ELBBR  LEGRA 

found  a  posse  of  men  on  horses  with 
lasso  ropes,  and  they  said,  "We  are 
going  to  string  you  Mormon  elders  up 
to  this  tree."  This  missionary  happened 
to  he  a  bit  witty,  and  he  said,  "Well, 
that  is  all  right,  but  there  is  no  hurry 
about  it,  is  there?  Come  on  inside,  and 
let's  talk  it  over,"  and  before  they  got 
through,  the  leader  of  the  mob  took 
the  two  elders  home  with  him.  But 
there  they  were,  facing  even  death,  as 
it  were,  but  there  was  no  fear  because 
of  the  marvelous  Spirit  the  Lord  has 
put  into  this  work. 

I  have  heard  it  said,  I  have  never 
read  it,  that  once  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
when  he  appeared  before  the  President 
of  the  United  States,  was  asked  the 
difference  between  this  Church  and 
other  churches,  and  he  said,  "The  differ- 
ence is  that  we  have  the  Holy  Ghost," 
and  then  I  thought  of  Peter  before  he 
received  the  Holy  Ghost,  how  he  denied 
the  Christ  three  times  during  one  night, 
and  after  he  had  received  the  Holy 
Ghost,  you  remember,  when  he  was 
asked  by  the  chief  priests,  if  they  had 
not  commanded  him  not  to  preach 
Christ  and  him  crucified  in  the  streets  of 
Jerusalem,  and  his  reply  was:  "Whom 
shall  men  obey?  God  or  man."  (See 
Acts  5:29.) 

I  tharric  God.  that  among  the  marvel- 
ous things  in  this  Church  is  this  wonder- 
ful spirit  that  binds  the  Saints  together 
and  motivates  the  members  of  the 
Church  to  be  willing  to  sacrifice,  in 
order  to  build  the  kingdom  of  God  in 
the  earth. 

I  would  like  to  say  a  few  words  about 
another  phase  of  this  great  and  mar- 
velous work  that  has  appealed  to  me, 
and  that  is  the  fulfilment  of  prophecy. 
As  I  read  the  words  of  Isaiah,  I  read 
that  the  Lord  has  plaimed  all  of  his 
work  from  the  beginning,  and  he  has 
permitted  his  prophets  so  to  aimomce 
unto  the  people.  That  is  why  Peter 
tells  us  that. 

We  have  also  a  more  sure  word  of 
prophecy;  whereunto  ye  do  well  that  ye 
take  heed,  as  unto  a  light  that  shineth  in 
a  dark  place,  until  the  dawn,  and  the  day 
star  arise  in  your  hearts: 


m  BICHARDS  53 

Knowing  this  first,  that  no  prophecy  of 
the  scripture  is  of  any  private  interpretation. 

For  tbe  prophecy  came  not  in  old  time 
by  the  will  of  man:  but  holy  men  of  God 
spake  as  they  were  moved  by  the  Holy 
Ghost.  (II  Peter  1:19-21.) 

And  so,  today,  we  have  the  more 
sure  word  of  prophecy,  and  as  I  read 
the  prophecies  of  the  scriptwes  and 
those  of  our  modern  prophets,  I  am 
sure  in  my  own  mind  that  there  has 
never  been  a  period  in  the  history  of 
the  world  when  there  were  as  many 
prophecies  being  fulfilled  as  there  are 
today. 

There  will  not  be  time  to  go  into 
the  details  of  what  has  transpired  in 
the  restoration  of  the  gospel,  in  the 
gathering  of  the  Saints  to  these  valleys 
of  the  mountains,  in  the  building  of 
these  holy  temples.  I  think  of  the  words 
of  President  Yoimg  when  the  corner- 
stone of  this  Salt  Lake  Temple  was 
laid,  when  he  made  this  statement: 

"This  morning  we  have  assembled 
on  one  of  the  most  solemn,  interesting, 
joyful,  and  glorious  occasions  that  ever 
have  transpired,  or  will  transpire  among 
the  children  of  men,  while  the  earth 
continues  in  its  present  organization, 
and  is  occupied  for  its  present  purposes. 
And  I  congratulate  my  brethren  and 
sisters  that  it  is  our  unspeakable  privi- 
lege to  stand  here  this  day,  and  minister 
before  the  Lord  on  an  occasion  which 
has  caused  the  tongues  and  pens  of 
Prophets  to  speak  and  write  for  many 
scores  of  centuries  which  are  past." 
(Discourses  of  Brigham  Young,  p.  632, 
1925  ed.) 

Think  of  itl  Some  three  thousand 
years  ago,  the  Lord  permitted  Isaiah 
and  Micah  to  see  this  temple,  and  they 

declared: 

And  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  the  last 
days,  that  the  mountain  of  the  Lord's 
house  shall  be  established  in  the  top  of 
the  mountains,  and  shall  be  exalted  above 
the  hills;  and  all  nations  shall  flow  unto 
it. 

And  many  people  shall  go  and  say.  Come 
ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the  mountain  of 
the  Lord,  to  the  house  of  the  God  of 
Jacob;  and  he  will  teach  us  of  his  ways, 
and  we  will  walk  in  his  paths.  (Isa.  2:2-3.) 


54  GENERAL  ( 

Sunday,  April  4 

Do  we  need  any  better  evidence  of 
the  fulfilment  of  this  prophecy  than 
these  great  congregations  that  are  as- 
sembling here  to  worship  the  Lord  and 
to  listen  to  the  words  of  his  prophets 
of  this  dispensation. 

I  think  also  of  the  words  of  Jesus, 
as  he  walked  along  the  way  to  Emmaus 
with  his  two  disciples,  "But  their  eyes 
were  holden  that  they  should  not  know 
him,"  and  then  after  listening  to  them 
tell  of  the  events  that  had  transpired  in 
Jerusalem  pertaining  to  the  crucifixion 
of  the  Lord,  he  said:  "O  fools,  and  slow 
of  heart  to  believe  all  that  the  prophets 
have  spoken."  And  then  he  began  with 
Moses  and  the  prophets  and  showed 
them  how  that  in  all  things  the  prophets 
had  testified  of  him  and  what  would 
transpire  as  part  of  his  ministry  and 
his  labors.  And  then  we  are  told  that 
he  opened  the  understanding  of  his 
Apostles,  that  they  might  understand 
the  scriptures.  (Luke  24:16,  25.) 

And  then  we  are  told  by  Mormon 
that  ".  .  .  the  eternal  purposes  of  the 
Lord  shall  roll  on,  imtil  all  his  promises 
shall  be  fulfilled."  And  then  Mormon 
said,  "Search  the  prophecies  of  Isaiah." 
And  then  he  made  raiown  that  in  the 
day  when  these  prophecies  should  be 
fulfilled,  that  it  would  be  given  unto 
the  people  to  tmderstand  them.  (Mor- 
mon 8:22-23.) 

And  as  I  read  the  prophecies  of  Isaiah, 
it  seems  to  me  that  the  Lord  almost 
permitted  him  to  live  more  in  our  day 
than  when  he  was  actually  upon  the 
earth,  for  so  many  of  his  prophecies 
deal  with  the  latter-days  and  the  things 
that  are  to  transpire  in  this  dispensation. 

I  think  of  the  words  of  one  of  our 
worthy  patriarchs,  not  so  long  ago. 
He  was  in  his  nineties,  and  one  of 
his  friends  said,  "Brother-so-and-so, 
wouldn't  you  rather  pass  on  into  the 
next  world,  where  your  wife  is  and  so 
many  of  your  loved  ones,  and  so  many 
of  your  friends?"  And  he  rebuked  him 
and  said,  "Not  much.  I  have  lived  to 
see  the  Lord  accomplish  so  much  in  this 
dispensation,  I  want  to  stay  as  long  as 
I  can  and  see  him  finish  his  work" 

It  would  be  an  interesting  thing  were 


Second  Day 

there  time  to  consider  the  prophecies 
that  are  yet  to  be  fulfilled,  but  I  do 
want  to  say  a  word  about  what  is  going 
on  over  in  Jerusalem  and  the  Holy 
Land  at  this  present  time.  So  many  of 
the  prophets,  and  the  Savior  of  the 
world,  himself,  and  particularly  when 
he  visited  the  Nephites,  have  told  of 
the  day  when  the  Jews  would  be  gath- 
ered back  to  that  land  and  how  the 
Lord  would  fight  their  battles  and  how 
he  would  do  a  marvelous  work  among 
them.  And  when  you  read  what  is 
going  on  and  see  how  they  have  be- 
come a  nation  today,  it  is  a  wonderful 
thing. 

And  then  I  contrast  the  prophecies 
with  relation  to  their  regathering  and 
theiir  rebuilding  of  their  temple  and 
their  rebuilding  of  the  waste  places  that 
have  been  desolate  according  to  the 
prophets  for  many  generations,  with  the 
prophecy  of  Isaiah  with  respect  to  the 
destruction  of  the  great  city  of  Bal^loti. 
You  will  remember  at  the  time  it  was 
the  greatest  city  in  all  the  world.  It 
is  interesting  to  read  the  descriptions 
of  it,  with  its  beautiful  gardens,  and 
yet  Isaiah  announced  that  that  city 
would  be  destroyed;  he  said  that  it 
would  never  be  rebuilt,  that  it  would 
never  be  inhabited  from  generation  to 
generation,  that  it  would  become  the 
abode  of  reptiles  and  wild  animals,  and 
that  the  Arabs  would  no  more  pitch 
their  tents  there.  That  was  a  declaration 
that  the  greatest  city  in  the  world  would 
not  only  be  destroyed,  but  it  would  also 
never  be  rebuilt. 

No  one  would  dare  say  that  of  any 
of  our  great  cities  today.  Now,  contrast 
that  with  the  destruction  of  Jerusalem. 
The  Savior  said  it  would  be  plowed  as 
an  acre  and  not  one  stone  would  be  left 
upon  another,  but  all  of  the  prophets 
declared  it  would  be  rebuilt,  and  not 
only  that,  but  that  her  waste  places 
should  also  be  restored  imtil  it  should 
become  as  the  garden  of  Eden. 

And  the  desolate  land  shall  be  tilled, 
whereas  it  lay  desolate  in  the  sigjit  of  all 
that  passed  by. 

And  they  shall  say.  This  land  that  was 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


55 


desolate  is  become  like  the  garden  of  Eden; 
and  the  waste  and  desolate  and  ruined 
cities  are  become  fenced,  and  are  inhabited. 
(Ezek.  36:34-35.) 

If  you  read  your  current  magazines, 
such  as  the  article  that  appeared  in  the 
March  Reader's  Digest  about  what  is 
going  on  over  there,  how  the  men  use 
the  Bible  to  find  where  the  springs  and 
wells  were,  and  the  reservoirs  and  the 
iron  mines,  it  is  a  marvelous  thing, 
and  that  land  is  being  rebuilt. 

I  could  not  help  but  think,  as  I  read 
some  of  these  articles,  of  how  Brother 
Orson  Hyde  would  feel  today.  He  was 
sent  there  in  1841  by  the  Presidency  of 
the  Church  to  dedicate  that  land  for 
the  regathering  of  the  Jews.  At  that 
time,  it  was  a  wasteland,  with  very  few 
people  there,  and  today  they  are  going 
back  by  the  thousands  and  by  the  nun- 
dreds  of  thousands.  . 

I  have  in  my  heart  a  feeling  that  it 
will  not  be  long  until  the  Presidency 
of  the  Church  will  feel  to  open  up 
the  missionary  work  among  these  people, 
because  the  Savior  indicated  that  the 
fulness  of  his  gospel  would  be  preached 
unto  them  in  the  latter  days  and  not 
only  that,  but  also  in  a  revelation  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph,  he  indicated  that 
the  gospel  was  to  be  preached,  as  Pres- 
ident McKay  pointed  out,  to  all  nations, 
to  the  Gentiles,  first,  and  then  to  the 
Jews,  so  that  the  day  will  come  when 
we  will  carry  the  message  to  them. 

I  have  one  specific  little  illustration 
of  how  it  would  appear  the  Lord  is 
working  with  them  I  would  like  to 
refer  to  here  today.  First,  I  will  read 
a  few  words  from  Zachariah,  the  twelfth 
chapter: 

In  that  day  shall  the  Lord  defend  the 
inhabitants  of  Jerusalem;  and  he  that  is 
feeble  among  them  at  that  day  shall  be  as 
David;  and  the  house  of  David  shall  be  as 
God,  as  the  angel  of  the  Lord  before  them. 

And  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  that  day, 
that  I  will  seek  to  destroy  all  the  nations 
that  come  against  Jerusalem.  (Zach.  12:8-9.) 

The  Lord  said  he  would  fight  their 
battles  and  that  they  should  be  strong, 
like  unto  David.  When  David  went 


out  to  meet  Goliath,  no  mortal  man 
would  ever  have  thought  that  in  and 
of  himself  he  could  have  conquered 
that  great  giant.  David  went  forth,  and 
when  Goliath  ridiculed  him,  saying, 
"Am  I  a  dog,  that  thou  comest  to  me 
with  staves?"  David  replied:  "Thou 
comest  to  me  with  a  sword,  and  with 
a  spear,  and  with  a  shield:  but  I  come 
to  thee  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  of 
hosts,  the  God  of  the  armies  of  Israel, 
whom  thou  hast  defied. 

"This  day  will  the  Lord  deliver  thee 
into  mine  hand,"  and  by  that  same 
power,  the  Lord  is  today  wresting  this 
great  land  of  promise  and  delivering 
it  back  unto  his  people.  (See  I  Sam.  17: 
43,  45.) 

A  short  time  ago,  when  a  committee 
was  sent  there  by  President  Truman, 
they  were  told  by  Chaim  Weizmann, 
the  first  president  of  Israel,  that  it  was 
their  belief  in  a  "mystical  force  that 
would  return  the  Jews  to  the  land  of 
Israel,  that  had  kept  them  alive." 

In  the  Jewish  Hope,  of  September 
1950,  was  an  .  article  by  Arthtir  U.  Mich- 
elson.  I  will  not  take  time  to  read  it, 
but  he  tells  of  a  visit  he  made  to  Jeru- 
salem, when  he  heard  the  experience 
of  the  Jewish  army.  They  had  only  one 
cannon,  and  were  facing  the  Arabs  with 
their  well-trained  and  equipped  army, 
and  so  when  they  used  this  cannon, 
they  moved  it  from  place  to  place  so 
the  enemy  would  think  they  had  many, 
and  every  time  the  cannon  was  fired, 
they  would  beat  tin  cans  in  order  to 
make  a  lot  of  noise  so  that  the  enemy 
would  think  they  had  many  cannons. 

I  want  to  read  what  he  said  about 
what  happened  when  the  armies  of 
Israel  were  about  to  give  up: 

"One  of  the  officials  has  told  me  how 
much  the  Jews  had  to  suffer.  They  had 
hardly  anything  with  which  to  resist 
the  heaw  attacks  of  the  Arabs  who 
were  well  organized  and  equipped  with 
the  latest  weapons.  Besides,  they  had 
neither  food  nor  water,  because  all  their 
supplies  were  cut  off.  .  .  . 

"At  this  critical  moment,  God  showed 
them  that  he  was  on  their  side,  for 


56 

Sunday,  April  4 

he  performed  one  of  the  greatest  mir- 
acles that  ever  happened.  The  Arabs 
suddenly  threw  down  their  arms  and 
surrendered.  When  their  delegation  ap- 
peared with  the  white  flag,  they  asked, 
"Where  are  the  three  men  that  led  you, 
and  where  are  all  the  troops  we  saw?" 
The  Jews  told  them  that  they  did  not 
know  anything  of  the  three  men,  for 
this  group  was  their  entire  force.  The 
Arabs  said  that  they  saw  three  persons, 
with  long  beards  and  flowing  white 
robes  who  warned  them  not  to  fight 
any  longer,  otherwise  they  would  all 
be  killed.  They  became  so  frightened 
that  they  decided  to  give  up.  What  an 
encouragement  this  was  for  the  Jews 
to  realize  that  God  was  fighting  for 
them." 

And  then  he  told  about  another  case 
when  one  man  with  a  white  robe  and 
a  long  beard  appeared,  and  they  all  saw 
him,  and  they  gave  up  their  arms.  Now 
I  do  not  know,  but  the  Lord  said  that 
he  would  do  something  for  the  Jews  in 
the  latter  days,  and  when  he  permitted 
the  Three  Nephites  to  tarry  upon  this 
land,  he  said: 

And  behold  they  will  be  among  the  Gen- 
tiles, and  the  Gentiles  shall  know  them 
not. 

They  will  also  be  among  the  Jews,  and 
the  Jews  shall  know  them  not. 

And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  when  the 
Lord  seeth  fit  in  his  wisdom  that  they 
shall  minister  unto  all  the  scattered  tribes 
of  Israel,  and  unto  all  nations,  kindreds. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

tongues  and  people,  and  shall  bring  out 
of  them  unto  Jesus  many  souls,  that  their 
desire  may  be  fulfilled,  and  also  because 
of  the  convincing  power  of  God  which  is 
in  them.  (3  Ne.  28:27-29.) 

Whoever  these  persons  were,  they 
seemed  to  have  "convincing  power" 
sufficient  to  cause  a  whole  army  to 
surrender. 

In  permitting  these  Three  Nephites 
to  tarry  upon  the  earth  until  he,  Jesus, 
should  come  in  his  glory,  he  must  have 
had  in  mind  some  great  things  for  them 
to  accomplish  in  toinging  about  a  ful< 
filment  of  his  promises.  Whether  it  was 
they  who  convinced  the  army  of  the 
Arabs  to  surrender,  I  do  not  know, 
but  this  I  do  know:  That  what  is  going 
on  in  the  Holy  Land  should  convince 
one  that  the  Lord  is  moving  rapidly 
toward  restoring  the  Jews  to  the  land 
of  their  fathers  and  is  giving  them  that 
land  and  redeeming  it  from  its  waste 
condition,  as  the  prophets  have  foretold. 

In  closing,  I  give  you  the  words  of 
Isaiah.  I  believe  the  words  of  the  proph- 
ets with  all  my  heart. 

The  grass  withereth,  the  flower  fadeth: 
but  the  word  of  our  God  shall  stand  for 
ever.  (Isa.  40:8.) 

To  me  prophecy  is  one  of  the  great 
evidences  that  there  is  really  a  God  and 
that  he  is  directing  his  work  and  will 
do  so  to  its  ultimate  decreed  destiny, 
and  I  bear  you  this  witness  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


|Y  BELOVED  brethren  and 
sisters  and  friends:  Hum- 
bly I  acknowledge  the 
great  honor,  privilege,  and 
responsibility  which  is 
mine,  as  I  look  into  your 
faces.  I  am  grateful  for  this  conference 
— thankful  to  the  Lord  that  I  am  able  to 
be  here,  to  mingle  with  you,  partake  of 
this  sweet  spirit,  and  grateful  to  him 
that  he  has  seen  fit  to  call  these  general 


conferences  of  the  Church  and  the 
quarterly  conferences  in  the  stakes  of 
Zion. 

I  have  in  mind  a  desire  to  offer  just 
a  word  of  hope  and  encouragement  and 
admonition  this  afternoon.  I  owe  a 
great  deal,  as  all  of  us  who  are  gathered 
here  do,  to  this  great  Church  and  king- 
dom of  which  we  are  a  part.  Through- 
out my  life,  I  have  felt  very  keenly  my 
obligation  to  this,  the  Church  and  king- 


ELDER  EZRA 

dom  of  God,  and  my  gratitude  to  my 
heavenly  Father  that  my  lot  has  been 
cast  with  this  people. 

I  wish  it  were  possible  for  all  of  us  to 
place  our  trusts  completely  in  God  and 
to  keep  his  commandments  fully.  I  wish 
we  had  the  courage,  the  faith,  and  the 
strength  of  character  so  that  we  would 
in  very  deed  place  our  trust  in  our 
heavenly  Father  and  keep  all  of  his 
commandments  and  do  that  which  is 
right. 

Many  years  ago,  when  I  was  a  boy  in 
my  teens,  a  particular  course  of  study  in 
the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement 
Association  made  a  deep  and  lasting  im- 
pression upon  my  life.  It  was  a  series 
of  lessons  on  the  development  of  char- 
acter. I  have  often  wished  that  that 
course  might  be  repeated.  The  first  in 
the  series  was  a  group  of  lessons  on 
courage.  There  is  a  rather  interesting 
sidelight  which  I  recall.  In  those  days 
in  our  manuals,  it  was  not  uncommon 
to  carry  advertising,  and  I  remember 
that  on  the  lower  front  cover  was  an 
advertisement  which  read  as  follows: 
"Oldest,  largest,  best.  LDS  Business 
College.  Day  Sessions,  $7.00  a  month; 
Night  Sessions,  $4.00  a  month." 

It  is  not  about  the  advertisement  that 
I  wish  to  speak,  but  on  the  flyleaf  of 
that  excellent  course  of  study  there  ap- 
peared a  few  stanzas  from  a  "Selected" 
poem  under  the  caption,  "Trust  in  God 
and  Do  the  Right."  . 

Courage,  brother,  do  not  stumble. 
Though  thy  path  is  dark  as  night; 
There's  a  star  to  guide  the  humble — 
Trust  in  God  and  do  the  right. 

Let  the  road  be  long  and  dreary, 
And  its  ending  out  of  sight, 
Foot  it  bravely — ^strong  or  weary. 
Trust  in  God  and  do  the  right. 

Perish  "policy"  and  cunning. 
Perish  all  that  fears  the  light; 
Whether  losing,  whether  winning. 
Trust  in  God  and  do  the  right. 

Some  will  hate  thee,  some  will  love  thee. 
Some  will  flatter,  some  will  slight. 
Turn  from  man,  and  look  above  thee. 
Trust  in  God  and  do  the  right. 


TAFT  BENSON  57 

Simple  rule  and  safest  guiding. 
Inward  peace  and  inward  light. 
Star  upon  our  path  abiding. 
Trust  in  God  and  do  the  right. 

At  the  head  of  that  first  chapter  ap- 
peared those  reassuring  words  of  Joshua, 
later  tised  as  a  theme  in  MIA: 

Be  strong  and  of  a  good  courage;  be  not 
afraid,  neither  be  thou  dismayed:  for  the 
Ixjrd  thy  God  is  with  thee  whithersoever 
thou  goest  (Joshua  1:9.) 

And  then  the  Psalmist: 

Be  still,  and  know  that  I  am  God. 
(Psalm  46:10.) 

It  is  a  great  blessing,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  to  have  an  inner  peace,  to  have 
an  assurance,  to  have  a  spirit  of  serenity, 
an  inward  calm  during  times  of  strife 
and  struggle,  during  times  of  sorrow  and 
reverses.  It  is  soul-satisfying  to  know 
that  God  is  at  the  helm,  that  he  is  mind- 
ful of  his  children,  and  that  we  can 
with  full  confidence  place  our  trust  in 
him.  I  believe  that  all  the  truly  great 
men  of  the  earth  have  been  men  who 
trusted  in  God  and  who  have  striven 
to  do  that  which  is  right  as  they  imder- 
stood  the  right. 

I  have  often  read  the  words  of  Abra- 
ham Lincoln  when  he  said, 

God  rules  this  world,  ...  I  am  a  full 
believer  that  God  knows  what  He  wants 
a  man  to  do — that  which  pleases  him.  It 
is  never  well  with  that  man  who  heeds 
it  not  .  .  .  without  the  assistance  of  that 
Divine  Being,  I  cannot  succeed,  with  that 
assistance  I  cannot  fail. 

And  he  offered  similar  admonition 
for  the  nations  of  the  earth,  as  have 
other  great  Americans  and  great  spiritual 
leaders.  Said  Lincoln: 

It  is  the  duty  of  nations  as  well  as  of 
men  to  own  their  dependence  upon  the 
overruling  power  of  God,  to  confess  their 
sins  and  transgressions  in  humble  sorrow 
.  .  .  and  to  recognize  the  sublime  truth 
that  those  nations  only  are  blessed  whose 
God  is  the  Lord. 

I  thrilled,  as  I  am  sure  you  did,  as 
our  chief  executive,  newly  elected,  stood 


58 

Simiay,  April  4 

on  that  solemn  occasion,  at  the  time  of 
his  inauguration,  and  offered  a  humble 
prayer  to  the  Almighty.  In  majestic 
simplicity  President  Dwight  D.  Eisen- 
hower petitioned  on  that  occasion: 

.  .  .  Give  us,  we  pray,  the  power  to 
discern  clearly  right  from  wrong,  and  allow 
all  our  works  and  actions  to  be  governed 
thereby  and  by  the  laws  of  this  land  .  .  . 
so  that  all  may  work  for  the  good  of  our 
beloved  country  and  for  Thy  glory.  Amen. 

It  is  reassuring  to  see  men  in  high 
places,  in  church,  in  government,  in 
business — in  all  of  the  vi^alks  of  life — 
who  are  not  afraid  to  acknowledge  their 
dependence  upon  God — ^who  are  not 
afraid  to  trust  him — ^not  afraid  to  try 
to  do  that  which  is  right. 

Yes,  God  is  at  the  helm,  my  brothers 
and  sisters.  I  know  it,  and  you  know  it. 
Surely  no  group  of  people  in  all  the 
world  has  greater  evidence  of  that  fact 
than  do  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Even 
during  the  days  of  persecution  and  hard- 
ship, the  Lord  has  continually  encour- 
aged us  to  trust  in  him,  to  keep  his 
commandments,  to  do  that  which  is 
right  and  then  be  unafraid. 

We  live  in  a  world  of  fear  today. 
Fear  seems  to  be  almost  everywhere 
present.  But  there  is  no  place  for  fear 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  among 
men  and  women  who  keep  the  com- 
mandments, who  place  their  trust  in 
the  Almighty,  who  are  not  afraid  to 
get  down  on  their  knees  and  pray  to 
our  heavenly  Father. 

I  remember  an  incident  in  the  life 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph.  God  bless  his 
memoryl  He  had  been  persecuted  with 
his  people,  driven,  and  at  this  particular 
time  he  was  in  Liberty  Jail,  incarcerated 
upon  trumped-up  charges.  Finally,  when 
it  seemed  as  though  he  could  stand  it 
no  longer,  he  cried  out  in  the  anguish 
of  his  soul,  as  recorded  in  the  121st 
section: 

O  God,  where  art  thou?  And  where  is 
the  pavilion  that  covereth  thy  hiding  place? 

How  long  shall  thy  hand  be  stayed,  and 
thine  eye,  yea  thy  pure  eye,  behold  from 
the  eternal  heavens  the  wrongs  of  thy 
people  and  of  thy  servants,  and  thine  ear 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Seemd  Day 

be  penetrated  with  their  cries?  CD.  &  C 
121:1-2.) 


And  you  will  recall,  the  word  came 
back  to  him: 

My  son,  peace  be  unto  thy  soul;  thine 
adversity  and  thine  afflictions  shall  be  but 
a  small  moment; 

And  then,  if  thou  endure  it  well,  God  shall 
exalt  thee  on  high;  thou  shalt  triumph  over 
thy  foes.  (Ibid..  121:7-8.) 

Then  the  Lord  pointed  out  to  this 
great  man,  this  prophet  of  God,  that 
all  these  things  had  been  given  for  the 
purpose  of  gaining  experience,  of  help- 
ing to  btiild  him  for  the  great  responsi- 
bilities that  lay  ahead  of  him.  How 
sweet  and  reasstiring  are  the  words  of 
the  Lord  on  that  memorable  occasion 
as  he  counseled: 

.  .  .  know  thou,  my  son,  that  all  these 
things  shall  give  thee  experience,  and  shall 
be  for  thy  good. 

.  .  .  therefore,  fear  not  what  man  can  do, 
for  God  shall  be  with  you  forever  and  ever. 
(Ibid..  122:7,  9.) 

The  Lord,  speaking  to  his  sons  of 
this  dispensation  and  the  membership 
of  his  Church,  gave  the  following  ad- 
monition in  another  revelation: 

Fear  not  to  do  good,  my  sons,  for  what- 
soever ye  sow,  that  shall  ye  also  reap; 
therefore,  if  ye  sow  good  ye  shall  also  reap 
good  for  your  reward. 

Therefore,  fear  not,  little  flock;  do  good; 
let  earth  and  hell  combine  against  you,  for 
if  ye  are  built  upon  my  roc^  they  caimot 
prevail. 

.  .  .  perform  with  soberness  the  work 
which  I  have  commanded  you. 

Look  unto  me  in  every  thought;  doubt 
not,  fear  not.  (Ibid.,  6:33-36.) 

You  will  also  recall  the  admonition 

he  gave  to  the  early  disciples  of  this 
dispensation,  recorded  in  the  Lord's 
preface  to  the  Book  of  Commandments, 
the  first  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants: 

And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none  shall 
stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord  have  commanded 
them.  (Ibid.,  1:5.) 


ELDER  EZRA 

So  among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  par- 
ticularly, there  should  be  no  fears,  even 
in  a  world  where  many  people  are 
concerned  about  atom  bombs,  the  hy- 
drogen bomb;  where  many  are  fearing 
Communism  and  some  are  talking  fear- 
fully of  a  depression.  There  need  be 
no  fear  in  the  hearts  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  People  who  live  the  gospel,  who 
keep  the  commandments,  who  trust  in 
God  and  do  that  which  is  right,  need 
never  fear  because  God  speaks  peace 
to  the  honest  in  heart  through  his  Spirit. 
Said  the  Lord  in  the  llth  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

And  now,  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee, 
put  your  trust  in  mat  Spirit  which  leadeth  to 
do  good —  yea,  to  do  justly  ...  to  judge 
righteously;  and  this  is  my  Spirit,  (ibid., 
11:12.) 

On  another  occasion  the  Lord  de- 
clared: 

The  weak  things  of  the  world  shall  come 
forth  and  break  down  the  mighty  and 
strong  ones,  that  man  should  not  coimsel  his 
fellow  man,  neither  trust  in  the  arm  of  flesh. 
(Jbid.,  1:19;  italics  added.) 

Our  heavenly  Father  is  continually 
mindful  of  us.  It  is  his  "work  and  glory" 
to  make  the  exaltation  of  man  possible. 
The  course  which  he  has  outlined  is 
simple,  yet  able  to  make  men's  stature 
reflect  confident  living  free  from  fear. 
Hear  his  words: 

Let  him  trust  in  me  and  he  ^all  not  be 
confoimded.  .  .  .  (Ibid.,  84:116.) 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  there  may 
come  persecution;  there  may  come  op- 
position; there  may  come  reverses;  there 
may  come  criticism  and  misrepresenta- 
tion. Your  motives  may  be  questioned. 
You  may  be  attacked.  But  if  we  place 
our  trust  in  the  Almighty  and  do  that 
which  is  right,  there  will  come  an  iimer 
assurance,  an  iimer  calm,  a  peace  that 
will  bring  joy  and  happiness  to  our 
souls. 

In  my  office  in  Washington,  in  the 
Department  of  Agriculture,  established 
by  President  Abraham  Lincoln,  I  have 
in  a  small  frame  these  words  of  ths 
great  Emancipator: 


TAFT  BENSON  59 

If  I  were  to  try  to  read,  much  less  answer, 
all  the  attacks  made  on  me,  this  shop  might 
as  well  be  closed  for  any  other  business. 
I  do  the  very  best  I  know  how — ^the  very 
best  I  can;  and  I  mean  to  keep  doing  so 
until  the  end.  If  the  end  brings  me  out  all 
right,  what  is  said  against  me  won't  amount 
to  anything.  If  the  end  brings  me  out 
wrong,  ten  angels  swearing  I  was  right  would 
make  no  difference. 

And  that  is  the  spirit  which  should 
characterize  the  lives  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  "Do  what  is  right,  let  the  conse- 
quence follow,"  goes  one  of  our  favorite 
hymns.  Shrink  not  from  duty  where  it 
is  made  known.  Keep  the  command- 
ments. Trust  in  God  and  do  the  right. 

In  the  early  days  of  the  Church,  you 
may  recall,  the  Lord  frequently  praised 
the  elders  for  certain  things  they  did, 
but  ofttimes  he  would  chastise  as  well, 
and  in  the  60th  section,;Of..the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  aftergiving  a  few  words 
of  praise,  he  said: 

But  with  some  I  am  not  well  pleased, 
for  they  will  not  open  their  mouths,  but 
they  hide  the  talent  which  I  have  given 
linto  them,  because  of  the  fear  of  man. 
Wo  unto  such,  for  mine  anger  is  kindled 
against  them.  (D.  &  C  60:2.) 

And  so  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as 
President  Richards  pointed  out  so  beau- 
tifully this  morning,  let  us  never  be 
ashamed  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Let  us  never  be  afraid  to  do  what  is 
right.  Let  us  trust  in  God  and  keep  his 
commandments,  for  this  is  the  whole 
duty  of  man. 

I  know,  and  so  do  you  who  have 
testimonies  of  the  divinity  of  this  work, 
that  without  God's  help  we  cannot 
succeed,  but  with  his  help  we  can  ac- 
complish anything  he  asks  us  to  do. 
And  we  can  do  it  with  a  feeling  of  as- 
surance, of  confidence,  and  with  a  spirit 
of  serenity  which  can  be  a  joy  and 
blessing  to  all  of  us. 

God  help  us  to  keep  his  command- 
ments, to  put  our  homes  in  order,  to 
pray  to  God,  to  trust  in  him  and  do  the 
right,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Ainen. 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday.  AjgjX  4 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson,  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us. 

The  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 
Conference  will  convene  in  the  Salt 
Lake  Tabernacle  at  7:00  o'clock  tonight. 
All  Sunday  School  workers  should  be 
in  attendance.  Others  are  cordially  in- 
vited. We  are  informed  by  the  Super- 
intendent that  provision  will  be  made 
for  overflow  audiences  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall. 

I  am  sure  I  express  your  feelings  when 
I  again  say  we  are  grateful  for  the  excel- 
lent singing  of  our  Choir.  Their  serv- 
ice is  an  inspiration  to  all. 

To  you  who  probably  did  not  hear 
the  appreciation  this  morning,  these 
calla  lilies  are  from  the  Berkeley  Stake, 
the  daffodils  from  the  Tacoma  Stake. 

We  express  our  appreciation  to  you 
ushers  who  have  rendered  such  excel- 
lent service  this  day.  To  the  public 
press,  the  reporters,  for  their  fair  and 
accurate  report. 

To  the  congregation  for  your  respon- 
sive attention  and  your  refraining  from 
leaving  your  seats  and  moving  around. 
It  has  truly  been  an  hour  of  worship. 

To  the  various  radio  and  television 
stations,  we  wish  to  say  that  your  as- 
sistance rendered  here  in  our  own  city 
and  state  and  in  other  states  named 
throughout  the  sessions  thus  far,  has 
been  the  means  of  permitting  tens  of 
thousands  to  hear  the  proceedings  of 
this  Conference. 

Here  are  more  telegrams.  I  think  we 
should  recognize  the  names:  Brother 
Hickenlooper  of  San  Francisco  Stake, 
meeting  in  houses  of  worship  there; 
Joseph  B.  Hone  of  Tacoma  Stake;  all 
expressing  appreciation  of  the  oppor- 
tunity you  furnished  them;  Josepn  B. 
Clark  and  family  representing  408  Quo- 
rum of  Seventies  in  the  Tacoma  Stake; 
Bishop  N.  Ward  Newby  of  the  Seattle 
Third  Ward  and  the  bishop  of  the  Fifth 
Ward  in  Seattle;  Clark  N.  Marsh,  Stake 
Missionary  in  San  Leandro;  San  Fran- 
cisco Stake  High  Council;  Sister  Graham 
who  has  expressed  appreciation;  the 
baby  Stake  High  Priests  Quorum  in 


Second  Day 

Phoenix;  247  Quorum  of  Seventy,  Oak- 
land; San  Jose  Second  Ward  Bishopric; 
4th  Ward  Bishopric  -in  the  Denver 
Stake,  Denver,  Colorado;  Dennis  L. 
Lauper,  High  Councilor,  Wilford  D. 
Webb,  member  of  the  Oakland  Stake; 
San  Leandro  Ward  Bishopric;  Ernest  C. 
Haas,  Glendale  Stake.  Thank  you, 
brothers  and  sisters,  we  are  happy  that 
you  have  joined  with  us  in  the  privilege 
to  participate  in  the  inspiring  sessions 
of  the  Conference  this  day. 

The  streets  are  crowded.  Let  each  one 
follow  what  they  now  call  the  Golden 
Rule,  Do  unto  others  as  you  would  have 
others  do  unto  you.  Let  us  practice 
courtesy  here  in  Utah,  and  set  an  ex- 
ample. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now 
favor  us  with,  "And  Then  Shall  Your 
Light  Break  Forth,"  with  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall  conducting.  The  benediction 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  Rulon  S. 
Howells,  more  recently  released  as 
President  of  the  Brazilian  Mission,  after 
which  this  Conference  will  be  adjourned 
until  ten  o'clock  Monday  morning. 

The  Choir  sang  as  a  concluding  num- 
ber, "And  Then  Shall  Your  Light  Break 
Forth." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

It  will  be  necessary  to  make  some 
preparation  for  the  meeting  tonight,  and 
the  ushers  and  workmen  would  appre- 
ciate it  very  much  if  we  vacate  the 
building  as  conveniently  after  the  bene- 
diction as  possible. 

At  7:30  tomorrow  morning,  in  the 
Assembly  Hall,  there  will  be  held  an 
agricultural  meeting  tmder  the  direction 
of  the  Church  Welfare  Committee. 

Elder  Howells,  recently  released  presi- 
dent of  the  Brazilian  Mission,  will  offer 
the  benediction  and  this  Conference  will 
be  adjourned  until  ten  o'clock  tomorrow 
morning. 

Elder  Rulon  S.  Howells,  formerly 
president  of  the  Brazilian  Mission,  ot- 
tered the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock 
a.m.,  Monday,  April  5< 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  fourth  session  of  the  Conference 
convened  at  10  o'clock  a.m.,  Monday, 
April  5. 

The  choral  singing  for  this  session  of 
the  Conference  was  furnished  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Combined 
Choruses  under  the  direction  of  Don  L. 
Earl. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  are  assembled  in  the  Tabernacle 
on  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City,  in 
this  the  fourth  session  of  the  124th  An- 
nual Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  These  serv- 
ices, and  all  general  sessions  of  the 
Conference,  will  be  broadcast  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall,  60 
North  Main  Street,  over  a  public  ad- 
dress system,  and  by  television.  These 
services  will  also  be  televised  over  KSL 
TV,  Channel  5,  at  Salt  Lake  City,  and 
will  be  heard  over  Radio  Station  KSL 
of  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement 
through  KSL  over  fourteen  radio  sta- 
tions in  Utah,  Idaho,  Arizona  and 
Nevada,  the  naines  of  which  stations 
have  already  been  announced  to  the 
radio  audience. 

,  We  desire  to  express  appreciation  to 
these  various  radio  stations  for  their 
courtesy  in  making  available  their  time 
and  facilities  for  these  broadcasts. 

We  called  attention  to  a  number  of 
telegrams  received  yesterday  from  the 
members  of  the  Church  and  others  in 
the  Northwest  and  from  cities  in  Cali- 
fornia, which  expressed  appreciation  for 
having  furnished  them  the  television 
privilege.  Last  night  after  adioumment 
we  received  two  others  which  I  think 
are  worthy  of  mention:  One  telegram 
from  a  group  of  Lamanite  members 
down  in  Phoenix.  They  express  their 
gratitude  for  the  privilege  they  had  of 
joining  you  in  these  services.  And  the 
other^  a  telegram  expressing  the  same 
app'eciatian  &om  a  group  of  our  Chinese 
members  in  Sah  Francisco. 


The  singing  for  this  session  will  bt 
furnished  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  with  Don 
L.  Earl  conducting,  and  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ.  The  Brigham 
Young  University  Combined  Chorus  will 
now  sing,  "Send  Forth  Thy  Spirit,"  con- 
ducted by  Elder  Don  L.  Earl.  The 
invocation  will  be  offered  by  Elder  Ray 
E.  Dillman,  formerly  President  of  the 
Western  States  Mission. 


Singing  by  the  Combined  Choruses, 
"Send  Forth  Thy  Spirit." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Ray  E.  Dillman,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  Western  States  Mission. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Hie  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses,  with  Elder  Don  L. 
Earl  conducting.  Elder  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ,  will  now  sing 
"The  Spirit  of  God  Like  a  Fire  Is  Bum- 
mg. 


Singing  by  the  Choruses,  "The  Spirit 
of  God  Like  A  Fire  is  Burning." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

An  inspiring  illustration  of  the 
strength,  energy  and  future  success  of 
the  youth  of  the  Church.   Thank  you. 

We  are  pleased  to  note  the  attendance 
this  morning  of  all  the  General  Authori- 
ties, excepting  Elder  Thomas  E.  McKay 
who  is  excused,  and  also  prominent 
State  officials,  leaders  in  education,  and 
others  holding  prominent  positions  in 
the  State  and  Nation.  Elder  Benson, 
Secretary  of  Agriculture  is  with  us. 
Senator  Bennett  wished  to  be  excused. 
Mayor  Glade  is  present.  President 
Wilkinson  of  the  Brigham  Yoimg  Uni- 
versity, President  Olpin  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Utah,  President  Dixon  of  the 
Utah  State  Agricultural  College,  Presi- 


62  GENERAL  ( 

Monday,  April  5 

dent  Clarke  of  Ricks  College,  President 
Miller  of  Weber  College,  President 
Chase  of  the  Branch  U.S.A.C.,  President 
Whetten  of  Snow  College,  President 
Himes  of  Dixie  College,  President  Jones 
of  the  Carbon  College,  Superintendent 
Bateman,  State  Superintendent  of 
Schools,  Superintendent  Bennion  of  the 
Salt  Lake  City  Schools,  and  probably 
others,  to  whom  we  extend  a  hearty 
welcome,  and  all  others  who  are  listen- 
ing in. 

Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Con- 
ference, will  now  read  the  vital  statisti- 
cal data,  changes  in  the  ward  and  stake 
organizations,  the  obituaries  of  the 
Church,  and  some  Gnandal  e3q>endi- 
tures. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  read  the  following  reports: 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 

STAKE,  WARD  AND  BRANCH 
ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE  OCTOBER 
CONFERENCE  1953 

MISSION  CHANGES  AND  NEW 
PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Alvin  Rulon  Dyer  appointed  presi- 
dent of  Central  States  Mission  to  suc- 
ceed J.  Orval  Ellsworth. 

D.  Arthur  Haycock  appointed  presi- 
dent of  Hawaii  Mission  to  succeed 
Ernest  L.  Nelson. 

G.  Eugene  England  appointed  presi- 
dent of  North  Central  States  Mission  to 
succeed  John  B.  Hawkes. 

Harold  I.  Bowman  appointed  president 
of  Spanish-American  Mission  to  succeed 
Lorin  F.  Jones. 

Eben  R.  T.  Blomquist  appointed  presi- 
dent of  Swedish  Mission  to  succeed 
Clarence  F.  Johnson. 

Legrand  Fitzgerald  Smith  appointed 
president  of  Texas-Louisiana  Mission  to 
succeed  Benjamin  L.  Bpwring. 

Samuel  Allen  Hendricks  appointed 
president  of  West  Central  States  Mis- 
sion to  succeed  Sylvester  Broadbent. 

A.  Lewis  Elggren  appointed  president 
of  Westem^Jtates  Mission  to  succeed 
Ray  E.  DilBfeum.  « 


Third  Day 

TEMPLE  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Benjamin  L.  Bowring  appointed 
president  of  Hawaiian  Temple  to  suc- 
ceed Ralph  E.  Woolley, 

ElRay  L.  Christiansen  appointed 
president  of  Salt  Lake  Temple  to  suc- 
ceed Robert  D.  Young. 

NEW  STAKES  ORGANIZED 

Dallas  Stake  organized  October  18, 
1953,  from  Texas-Louisiana  Mission. 

East  Phoenix  Stake  organized  Febru- 
ary 28,  1954,  by  division  of  Phoenix 
Stake. 

Houston  Stake  organized  October  11, 
1953,  from  Texas-Louisiana  Mission. 

Salmon  River  Stake  organized  Octo- 
ber 18,  1953,  by  division  of  Lost  River 
Stake. 

STAKE  PRESIDENTS  CHOSEN 

Nathan  Eldon  Tanner,  president  of 
Calgary  Stake,  to  succeed  Octave  W. 
Ursenbach. 

C.  Leland  Davey,  president  of  Can- 
non Stake,  to  succeed  Fred  H.  Peck,  Jr. 
deceased. 

Ervin  W.  Atkerson,  president  of  Dallas 
Stake. 

Junius  E.  Driggs,  president  of  East 
Phoenix  Stake. 

Raymond  Jay  Pace,  president  of  Farr 
West  Stake,  to  succeed  Wilmer  J.  Maw, 
deceased. 

Jack  Byron  Tnmnell,  president  of 
Houston  Stake. 

Loyd  Sorensen,  president  of  Humboldt 
Stake,  to  succeed  Harvey  A.  Dahl. 

Walter  W.  Hunter,  president  of 
Liberty  Stake,  to  succeed  A.  Lewis  Elg- 
gren. 

Lawrence  D.  Olpin,  president  of  Lorin 
Farr  Stake,  to  succeed  Elton  W.  Wardle, 
deceased. 

Stephen  L.  Smith,  president  of  Malad 
Stake  to  succeed  Samuel  A.  Hendricks. 

Heber  Earl  Stokes,  president  of  Salmon 
River  Stake. 

George  Edwin  Grover,  president  of 
Shelley  Stake,  to  succeed  J.  Berkley 
Larsen. 

Ralph  A.  Richards,  president  of  South 


NEW  WARDS 

Summit  Stake,  to  succeed  Moses  Q  Tay- 
lor. 

Clement  P.  Hilton,  president  of  Young 
Stake,  to  succeed  Willard  C.  Stolworthy. 

NEW  WARDS  ORGANIZED 

Lewiston  Fourth  Ward,  Benson  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Lewiston  First 
Ward. 

Rodeo  Ward,  Berkeley  Stake,  formerly 

Rodeo  Branch. 

Blackfoot  Sixth  Ward,  Blackfoot  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Blackfoot  Second 
Ward. 

Bountiful  Tenth  Ward,  Bountiful 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Bountiful 
Fifth  Ward. 

Calgary  Third  Ward,  Calgary  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Calgary  First  and 
Second  Wards. 

Cannon  Fourth  and  Fifth  Wards,  Can- 
non Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Glen- 
dale  Park  First  and  Cannon  Wards. 

West  AUis  Ward,  Chicago  Stake, 
formerly  South  Milwaukee  Branch. 

Dallas,  Fort  Worth,  Kelsey,  Longviev?, 
Shreveport  and  Waco  Wards,  Dallas 
Stake,  formerly  branches  in  Texas- 
Louisiana  Mission. 

Boulder  Ward,  Denver  Stake,  former- 
ly Boulder  Branch. 

Midvale  Third  Ward,  East  Jordan 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Garden- 
View  Ward. 

Norwalk  Second  Ward,  East  Long 
Beach  Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Nor- 
walk Ward. 

Ogden  Forty-First  and  Forty-Third 
Wards,  East  Ggden  Stake,  formed  by 
division  of  Highland  and  Thirty-Third 
Wards. 

Ensign  Second  Ward,  Ensign  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  West  Ensign 
Ward. 

Gridley  Second  Ward,  Gridley  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Gridley  Ward. 

Austin,  Baytown,  Beatimont,  Houston 
First,  Houston  Second,  San  Antonio, 
Silsbee,  Williamson  Wards,  Houston 
Stske,  formerly  branches  in  Texas- 
Louisiana  Mission. 

Ogden  Forty-Second  Ward,  Lorin  Farr 


ORGANIZED  63 

Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Ogden 
Twenty-First  Ward. 

Tempe  Second  Ward,  Maricopa  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Tempe  Ward. 

Monument  Park  Second  Ward, 
Monument  Park  Stake,  formed  by  divi- 
sion of  Monument  Park  Ward. 

Ogden  Forty-Fourth  Ward,  Mt.  Ogden 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Ogden 
Seventeenth  Ward. 

Murray  Ninth  Ward,  Murray  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Murray  Fifth 
Ward. 

Sunset  Second  Ward,  North  Davis 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Sunset 
Ward. 

Idaho  Falls  Seventeenth  Ward,  North 
Idaho  Falls  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Idaho  Falls  First  Ward. 

Tooele  Tenth  Ward,  North  Tooele 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Tooele 
Second  Ward. 

San  Lorenzo  Ward,  Oakland  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Ha5rward  Ward. 

Geneva  Second  Ward,  Orem  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Geneva  Ward. 

Arcadia,  West  Arcadia  and  West 
Covina  Wards,  Pasadena  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  Monrovia,  Las  Flores  and 
Baldwin  Park  Wards. 

Pocatello  Twenty-First  Ward,  Poca- 
tello  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Pocatello  Fourth  Ward. 

Avalon,  Roosevelt  Third  and  Roose- 
velt Fourth  Wards,  Roosevelt  Stake, 
formed  by  consolidation  of  Randlett  & 
Leota  Wards  and  division  of  Roosevelt 
Second  and  Roosevelt  Wards. 

Leadore  Ward,  Salmon  River  Stake, 
formerly  Leadore  Branch. 

Capitol  Hill  Second  Ward, -Salt  Lake 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Capitol 
Hill  Ward. 

Van  Nuys  Third  Ward,  San  Fernando 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Reseda  and 
Van  Nuys  Second  Wards. 

Lompoc  Ward,  Santa  Barbara  Stake, 
formerly  Lompoc  Branch. 

Fairfield  Ward,  Santa  Rosa  Stake, 
formerly  Fairfield  Branch. 

Ammon  Second  Ward,  South  Idaho 
Falls  Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Am- 
mon Ward. 


64  GENERAL  ( 

Monday^  April  5 

Bell  Ward,  South  Los  Angeles  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Maywood  Ward. 

Kimball  and  Lee  Wards,  South  Salt 
Lake  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Central  Park,  Burton,  and  Eldredge 
Wards. 

Spokane  Third  Ward,  Spokane  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  North  Spokane 
Ward. 

Bryan  Second,  Emerson  Second  and 
Richards  Second  Wards,  Sugar  House 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Bryan, 
Hawthorne,  Emerson,  Richards  and 
Sugar  House  Wards. 

Lindon  Second,  Pleasant  Grove  Fifth 
and  Sixth  Wards,  Timpanogos  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Lindon,  Pleasant 
Grove  First  and  Third  Wards. 

Falls  Church  and  Silver  Spring  Wards, 
Washington  Stake,  formed  by  division 
of  Arlington  and  Chevy  Chase  Wards. 

Kenwood  Second  Ward,  Wilford 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Kenwood 
Ward. 

Pocatello  Nineteenth  and  Twentieth 
Wards,  West  Pocatello  Stake,  formed  by 
division  of  Pocatello  Third  and  Tenth 
Wards. 

WARDS  AND  BRANCHES 
TRANSFERRED 

Rosemary  Ward  and  Brooks  Branch, 
Calgary  Stake,  formerly  of  East  Leth- 
bridge  Stake. 

Phoenix  First,  Fourth,  Fifth,  Seventh, 
and  Scottsdale  Wards  and  Spanish- 
American  Branch,  East  Phoenix  Stake, 
formerly  of  Phoenix  Stake. 

Challis,  Lemhi,  Salmon  First,  Salmon 
Second  Wards  and  Leadore  Branch, 
Salmon  River  Stake,  formerly  of  Lost 
River  Stake. 

Hayden  Branch,  Southern  Arizona 
Stake,  formerly  of  Mesa  Stake. 

STAKE,  WARD  AND  BRANCH 
NAME  CHANGED 

Calgary  Stake,  formerly  Lethbridge 
Stake. 

Lethbridge  Stake,  formerly  East  Leth- 
bridge Stake. 

Liberty-Sharon  Ward,  Bear  Lake 
Stake,  formerly  Liberty  Ward. 


Third  Day 

Cannon  Second  Ward,  Cannon  Stake, 
formerly  Glendale  Park  First  Ward. 

Cannon  Third  Ward,  Cannon  Stake, 
formerly  Glendale  Park  Second  Ward. 

Midvale  Fourth  Ward,  East  Jordan 
Stake,  formerly  Garden- View  Ward. 

Ensign  Ward,  Ensign  Stake,  formerly 
West  Ensign  Ward. 

Spokane  First  Ward,  Spokane  Stake, 
formerly  Spokane  Central  Ward. 

Spokane  Second  Ward,  Spokane  Stake, 
formerly  North  Spokane  Ward. 

Spokane  Fourth  Ward,  Spokane  Stake, 
formerly  Dishman  Ward. 

Grassy  Lake  Branch,  Lethbridge  Stake, 
formerly  Burdette  Branch. 

INDEPENDENT  BRANCHES 
ORGANIZED 

Red  Deer  Branch,  Calgary  Stake, 
formerly  of  Western  Canadian  Mission. 

Cleburne,  Enoch,  Grand  Prairie, 
Gilmer,  Hooks,  Kilgore,  Pittsburg, 
Sherman,  Queen  City  and  Wichita  Falls 
Branches,  Dallas  Stake,  formerly  of 
Texas-Louisiana  Mission. 

Bow  Island  Branch,  East  Lethbridge 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Burdette 
Branch. 

North  Campus  Branch,  East  Provo 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Campus 
Branch. 

Bryan,  Galveston,  Jacinto  City,  Lake 
Charles,  Orange,  Port  Arthur  and 
Velasco  Branches,  Houston  Stake,  form- 
erly of  Texas-Louisiana  Mission. 

Vauxhall  Branch,  Lethbridge  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Taber  First  Ward. 

Hercules  Branch,  Oquirrh  Stake,  form- 
erly dependent  on  Spencer  Ward. 

Mexican  Branch,  Pocatello  Stake. 

Los  Flores  Branch,  Santa  Barbara 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  San  Luis 
Obispo  and  Santa  Maria  Wards. 

San  Manuel  Branch,  Southern  Ari- 
zona Stake.  Poulsbo  Branch,  Tacoma 
Stake,  formerly  dependent  on  Bremerton 
Ward. 

WARDS  AND  INDEPENDENT 
BRANCHES  DISCONTINUED 

Sharon  Ward,  Bear  Lake  Stake,  mem- 
bership consolidated  with  Liberty  Ward. 


STATISTICAL  AND  FINANCIAL  REPORT  65 

Oak  Grove  Branch,  Florida  Stake,  Fred  H.  Peck,  Jr.,  president  of  Cannon 
made  dependent  branch  on  Lake  City  Stake. 

Wilmer  J.  Maw,  president  of  Farr 
THOSE  WHO  HAVE  PASSED  AWAY    West  Stake. 

Elder  Matthew  Cowley  of  the  Council  Elton  W.  Wardle,  president  of  Lorin 
of  the  Twelve.                                  Farr  Stake. 

STATISTICAL  AND  FINANCIAL  REPORT 

For  the  Information  of  the  Members  of  the  Church 

The  First  Presidency  issues  the  following  statement  of  items  concerning  the  condition 
and  operation  of  the  Church  for  the  year  1953.  The  statement  will  include  three  sections: 

■  First,  Statistical  Information;  Second,  Financial  Data;  and  Third,  Miscellaneous  Items. 

/.  ST^ATISTICAL  INFORMATION 

Number  of  Stakes  of  Zion,  at  end  of  year   211 

Niimber  of  Wards   :   1,655 

Number  of  Independent  Branches   229 

Total  Wards  and  Independent  Branches,  at  end  of  year   1,884 

Number  of  Missions  

Church  Membership: 

Stakes  :..   1,034,381 

Missions  :   211,981 

Total  Membership  (at  end  of  year)   1,246,362 

Church  Growth: 

Children  blessed  in  Stakes  and  Missions   44,535 

Children  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions    25,771 

Converts  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions   16,436 

Social  Statistics: 

Birth  rate  per  thousand  ;  ,   39.24 

Marriage  rate  per  thousand   9.24 

Death  rate  per  thousand   5.68 

(These  data  on  births,  marriages  and  deaths  are  computed  from  stake 

reports  and  do  not  include  the  missions)' 

Missiormries: 

Ntmiber  of  missionaries  in  the  missions  of  the  Church  (including  those 

enroute  to  or  from  their  fields  of  labor)   2,742 

Nimiber  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  stakes   6,817 

Total  missionaries — December  31,  1953    9,559 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  in  the  Missionary  Home  in 

1953   1,750 

//.  FINANCIAL  DATA 
This  section  will  be  presented  under  two  headings: 

First,  Expenditures  for  Church  organizations  which  originate  directly  and  indirectly 
from  the  office  of  the  Corporation  of  the  President,  which  expenditures  are  funded  in  the 
main  from  the  tithes  of  the  Church 

Admiriistrative  Expenses 

For  salaries  of  Church  employees  in  the  office  of  the  Presidency  and  the 
office  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  and  special  coirmiittees;  for  the  living 
allowances  and  traveling  expenses  of  the  General  Authorities;  and  for 

equipment  and  miscellaneous  items  of  office  expense  ...S.                      $  1,407,913 


66 

Monday,  April  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


Stakes  and  Wards 

For  expenses  of  211  stakes  and  1884  wards  and  independent  branches,  va-  ' 
eluding  the  maintenance  of  buildings;  expenses  and  milet^e  allowances  of 
stake  presidents  and  bishops;  furnishings  for  stake  and  ward  offices;  erec- 
tion, remodeling  and  repairing  of  stake  and  watd  buildings   $  11,715,107 

Missions  and  Missionary  Work 

For  maintenance  and  operation  of  the  established  missions  of  the  Church; 
living  and  traveling  expenses  of  mission  presidents;  return  fares  of  mis- 
sionaries; for  expenses  of  bureaus  o£  information  and  of  the  Missionary 
Home  in  Salt  Lake  City;  for  free  literature,  radio  and  publicity  expense; 
for  erection,  remodeling,  purchase,  maintenance  and  renting  of  meeting 
houses  and  other  buildings  :  j....  $  5,755,081 

Temples 

For  expenses  of  the  eight  temples  now  in  operation  and  for  construction 
work,  repairs  and  maintenance  of  all  temple  buildings,  outbuildings,  and 
grounds   $  2,781,191 

Welfare 

For  the  purchase  of  equipment,  commodities  and  containers;  for  operating 
expenses  of  bishops'  storehouses,  and  for  the  transportation  of  commodities; 
for  the  purchase,  construction  and  remodeling  of  bishops'  storehouses  and 
other  general  welfare  properties;  for  General  Church  Welfare  Committee 
administrative  expenses;  and  for  the  care  of  the  needy — rents,  light,  fuel, 
hospitalization,  burials,  etc   $  1,514,873 

General  Buildings  and  Grounds 

For  maintenance  of  and  repairs  and  improvements  to  general  Church 
buildings  and  grounds,  including  the  Church  Administration  building. 
Church  hospitals.  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle,  Assembly  Hall,  and  buildings 
situated  immediately  adjacent  to  the  Temple  Block   $  552,388 

Schooh  and  Educational  Activities  . 
For  operating  expenses  of  the  Church  Educational  System,  including  the 
Brigham  Young  University,  Ricks  College,  Juarez  Stake  Schools,  18  insti- 
tutes, 189  seminaries,  and  of  the  Deseret  Gymnasium;  and  for  the  erection 
and  repair  of  buildings;  and  for  purchase  of  building  sites   $  4,879,227 

Genealogical  Society 

For  the  maintenance  of  the  genealogical  library,  archives,  temple  index 
bureau,  and  allied  departments;  for  recording,  indexing,  photographing 
and  filing  genealogical  and  temple  ordinance  data,  including  the  names 
of  614,280  persons  forwarded  to  the  temples  for  ordinances;  and  for 
microfilm  copies  of  genealogical  records  from  9  states  and  10  foreign 
countries  equivalent  to  84,849  printed  volumes  of  approximately  300 
pages  per  volume    ■.          $  941,002 

Other  Expenses 

For  taxes  and  assessments;  insurance;  contributions  to  civic  and  non- 
Church  educational  institutions;  for  maintenance  and  repair  of  historic 
properties  and  monuments;  for  restoration  of  the  Church  Fire  Insurance 

Fund;  and  for  other  purposes   ;   $  353,597 

Total  (Church  General  Funds  Spent)   $  29,900,379 

SecoTiJ,  Expenditures  which  originate  in  the  stakes,  wards,  missions,  schools  and  other 
organizations  and  agencies  of  the  Church,  which  are  covered  by  institutional  collections 

and  by  contributions  of  the  people  other  than  tithing. 

For  construction  and  repair  of  meeting  houses  and  other  buildings  and  for 

purchases  of  sites,  buildings  and  furnishings    11,922,841 

For  Stake,  Ward  and  Mission  Maintenance  purposes  (including  auxiliaries' 

recreation  expenses)   $  5,386,784 


STATISTICAL  AND  FINANCIAL  REPORT  67 

For  assistance  to  needy  from  Ward  and  Mission  Fast  Offerings    1,459,850 

For  acquisition  of  Storehouses  and  Budget  Production  projects  (including 

the  operating  expenditures  of  said  projects)  .  .-.  .  1,147,672 

For  assistance  to  Missionaries  from  contributions  received  by  Wards  and 

Stakes   _   253,114 

For  operation  of  the  Primary  Children's  Hospital,  of  the  auxiliary  general 

boards,  and  of  the  temples   343,018 

Educational  Institutions — ^from  tuitions  and  dormitory  and  other  service 

income    2,801,065 

Hospitals — for  care  of  the  sick — in  addition  to  contributions  to  the  Primary 

Children's  Hospital  and  in  addition  to  the  amounts  paid  from  tithes 

included  in  Part  I    29,167 

Auxiliaries — ^from  publications,  sewing  projects,  and  other  business  income..  1,619,120 

Temples — from  clothing  rentals  and  other  receipts    15^328 

Deseret  Industries,  Deseret  Clothing  Factory,  and  group  canning  projects — 

from  operating  income    818,889 

Welfare  budget  production  projects — from  operating  income    1,482,350 

Total  expenditures  from  contributions  and  collections  other  than  tithing  ....  $27,420,378 
GRAND  TOTAL — Expenditures  of  the  Church,  from  general  funds,  local 

contributions  and  other  income,  for  the  year  1953    $57,320,757 


At  the  end  of  the  year  1953,  the  Deseret  Industries  had  315  persons  working  in  their 
plants,  82%  of  whom  were  handicapped  persons.  The  Deseret  Clothing  Factory,  another 
branch  of  the  Welfare  Plan,  had  68  individuals  employed,  many  of  whom  were  widows 
and  elderly  persons. 

During  the  year,  79,585  man  days  of  work  and  the  use  of  equipment  amounting  to 
14,254  unit  days  were  donated  in  the  production  of  the  budget,  17,736  man  days  of  work 
were  donated  in  operation  of  bishops'  storehouses,  and  3,864  man  days  of  work  were 
donated  in  the  construction  of  buildings  for  the  operation  of  the  Welfare  Plan.  In  addi- 
tion to  these,  71  construction  and  remodeling  projects  were  completed  by  the  brethren, 
44  of  which  were  for  the  benefit  of  less  fortunate  members. 

During  1953,  4,566  persons  were  given  occupational  counseling  and  6,147  persons  were 
placed  in  remunerative  empIo5Tnent. 


The  records  appear  to  be  adequate,  and 
the  accounting  system  carefully  kept. 
Disbursement  of  Church  funds  is  con- 
trolled through  a  comprehensive  budget 
system.  Receipts  for  the  year  were  in 
excess  of  expenditures.  The  Church  is 
in  strong  financial  position,  and  free 
from  debt. 

Respectfully  submitted, 

Orval  W.  Adams 
George  S.  Spencer 
and  Harold  H.  Bennett 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  first  speaker  this  morning  will 
be  Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve.  He  will  be  fol- 
lowed by  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Orval  W.  Adams  will  now  read 
the  report  of  the  Church  Auditing  Com- 
mittee. 


Elder  Orval  W.  Adams  then  read  the 
following  report: 

"Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
March  29,  1954 

"Presideiit  David  O.  McKay 
and  Counselors 

Dear  Brethren: 

The  balance  sheet,  with  supporting 
schedules,  statement  of  revenue  and  ex- 
pmditureSj  disclosing  the  financial  con- 
dition of  the  Corporation  of  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  for  the  year  ending 
December  31,  1953,  has  been  reviewed. 


68 

Monday,  April  S 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Thtd  Day 


"The  clouds  of  error  disappear 
Before  the  rays  of  light  and  truth 
divine." 

AM  sure  we  have  been  uplifted 
this  morning  by  the  beauti- 
ful music  which  has  been 
rendered  through  these  fine 
people  of  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity. If  there  should  be 
any  in  the  congregation  this  morning 
who  had  a  feeling  of  discouragement,  a 
feeling  of  frustration  or  insecurity,  I  am 
sure  those  thoughts  were  dispelled  when 
you  heard  that  lovely  music,  "The  Spirit 
of  God  Like  a  Fire  Is  Burning."  That  is 
the  opportunity  which  is  ours,  my 
brothers  and  sisters,  to  enjoy  the  Spirit 
of  God  as  we  live  each  day  and  each 
hour  of  the  day. 

Yet,  not  to  throw  a  negative  thought 
into  this  lovely  meeting,  I  would  remind 
you  that  Satan  would  destroy  that  which 
we  have  heard  and  felt  this  morning. 
That  is  the  mission  of  Satan  in  the 
world — to  destroy  faith,  to  destroy  a 
testimony  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
How  grateful  I  am  that  the  gospel  has 
been  restored  in  its  fulness — ^that  we 
can  enjoy  the  spirit,  inspiration,  and 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  and  of  our 
Master  today,  as  is  true  whenever  there 
has  been  a  generation  of  righteous 
people  on  the  earth. 

It  is  nothing,  new  that  Satan  would 
endeavor  to  destroy.  I  believe  it  was 
Socrates  back  in  353  B.C.  who  declared: 
"Philosophy  has  struggled  to  find  some 
substitute  for  the  divine  commandments 
and  the  surveillance  of  God."  And 
today  there  are  men  who  would  deny 
that  Jesus  Christ  has  again  appeared 
and  spoken  to  his  chosen  servants  and 
that  there  has  been  re-established  in 
the  earth  the  Church  and  kingdom  of 
God. 

As  we  read  in  history,  we  find  that 
Satan  endeavored  to  deceive  Moses — 
Moses  who  was  a  prophet  of  God. 
Satan  endeavored  to  have  him  believe 


that  he,  Satan,  was  Jehovah,  but  be- 
cause Moses  was  a  righteous  son,  a 
faithful  son,  living  in  obedience  to  the 
commandments,  he  had  the  power  of 
discernment  and  was  able  to  rebuke  the 
adversary.  The  adversary,  we  are  told, 
was  very  much  discouraged  and  dis- 
appointed, and  he  wept  bitterly. 

Even  our  Lord  and  Master  Jesus 
Christ,  the  great  example  to  us  all, 
suffered  temptation.  Satan  knew  that 
after  he  had  fasted  for  forty  days  and 
forty  nights  there  would  be  a  physical 
weakness.  He  said:  "If  thou  be  the  Son 
of  God,  command  this  stone  that  it  be 
made  bread."  The  significant  remark 
of  Jesus  to  Satan  was:  "It  is  not  good 
for  man  to  live  by  bread  alone  but  by 
every  word  of  God."  Still  the  Son  of 
the  Morning  was  not  satisfied.  He  took 
the  Savior  to  a  high  mountain  and 
showed  him  in  the  twinkling  of  an  eye 
the  kingdoms  and  principalities  and 
powers  which  he  claimed  he  had  a  right 
to  bestow  if  the  Savior  would  but  bow 
down  and  worship  him,  Satan.  Again, 
the  significant  remark,  "Get  thee  behind 
me  Satan,  for  it  is  written  thou  shalt 
worship  the  Lord  thy  God,  and  him 
only  shalt  thou  serve."  We  are  told 
he  brought  him  to  Jerusalem  and  set 
him  on  a  pinnacle  of  the  temple  and 
said  unto  him:  "If  thou  be  the  Son  of 
God,  cast  thyself  down:  for  it  is  written 
he  shall  give  his  angels  charge  concern- 
ing thee:  and  in  their  hands  they  shall 
bear  thee  up,  lest  at  any  time  thou 
dash  thy  foot  against  a  stone."  Jesus 
said  unto  him:  "It  is  said  thou  shalt 
not  tempt  the  Lord  thy  God."  (See  Luke 
4:3-12.) 

Do  we  need  any  other  key  today  as 
Latter-day  Saints?  I  believe  not.  We 
can  live  in  obedience  to  the  truths  if 
we  will  seek  that  spiritual  guidance 
which  is  ours,  and  that  is  the  guidance 
that  has  been  the  influence  in  the  de- 
velopment of  man  throughout  the  ages. 

In  1929  it  was  my  privilege  to  visit 
the  laboratory  of  the  great  scientist. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


69 


Charles  P.  Steinmetz,  that  little  hunch- 
back German  who  came  to  this  country 
as  an  immigrant  boy.  I  shall  ever  be 
grateful  for  the  privilege  of  shaking  his 
hand.  After  his  passing  from  this  mortal 
existence  I  read  a  very  choice  statement 
wfhich  he  gave  to  the  world.  He  said: 
"Spiritual  power  is  a  force  which  history 
clearly  teaches  has  been  the  greatest 
force  in  the  development  of  man.  Yet 
we  have  been  merely  playing  with  it 
and  have  never  really  studied  it  as  we 
have  the  physical  forces.  Some  day 
people  will  learn  that  material  things 
do  not  bring  happiness  and  are  of 
little  use  in  making  people  creative  and 
powerful.  Then  the  scientists  of  the 
world  will  turn  their  laboratories  over 
to  the  study  of  spiritual  forces  which 
have  hardly  been  scratched." 

I  am  grateful  that  we  have  the  Church 
and  kingdom  of  God  in  the  earth  to- 
day. We  have  that  spiritual  strength 
and  power,  and  I  humbly  pray.  Latter- 
day  Saints  and  people  of  the  world,  that 
we  will  come  to  realize  that  the  only 
greatness  that  can  be  evolved  is  through 
the  development  of  spiritual  strength. 
Then  the  clouds  of  error  will  disappear, 
and  we  will  allow  the  rays  of  light  and 
truth  divine  to  take  precedence  in  our 
lives. 


May  God  bless  us  that  we  as  a  people 
may  go  forward  in  the  spiritual  strength 
which  is  rightfully  ours,  to  proclaim  the 
truths  of  the  gospel  and  enjoy  his  spirit 
by  doing  a  great  missionary  work.  This 
is  our  responsibility.  I  bear  witness  to 
you  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  that  President  David  O.  McKay 
is  the  mouthpiece  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
in  the  earth  and  those  men  associated 
with  him  in  the  Presidency  and  the 
Quorum  of  the  Twelve  and  the  Patriarch 
are  prophets  of  God.  May  we  take  their 
teachings  and  counsel  and  effect  them 
in  our  lives  that  we  may  truly  enjoy 
the  spiritual  strength  and  happiness 
which  will  bring  the  sweet  peace  that 
passeth  understanding,  I  humbly  pray 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  speaker  to  whom  you  have  just 
listened  was  Elder  John  Longden,  As- 
sistant to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 
We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Harold 
B.  Lee,  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 

He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Oscar 
A.  Kirkham  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


WOULD  be  indeed  ungrateful 
this  morning  were  I  not  to 
acknowledge  the  blessings  of 
my  Heavenly  Father  to  me 
and  mine,  and  I  do  that  most 
humbly. 

I  seek  for  the  uplift  of  the  spirit  of 
this  great  conference  and  your  faith 
and  prayers  in  these  next  few  minutes. 

I  could  wish  for  no  better  background 
for  the  few  thoughts  I  would  like  to 
express  than  the  buoyancy  of  the  won- 
derful youth  representing  our  great 
Brigham  Young  University  who  have 
sung  to  us  so  inspiringly  at  this  session 
of  our  conference. 


The  text  that  I  would  like  to  con- 
sider for  a  few  moments  is  in  the  na- 
ture of  a  question  from  a  young  Latter- 
day  Saint  youth  at  Fort  Lewis  military 
training  camp,  a  son  of  a  prominent 
Latter-day  Saint  family.  His  question 
jvas:  "What  is  your  concept  of  a  Christ- 
like life?  Please  explain  in  detail  the 
qualifications  necessary  for  one  to  gain 
an  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of 
heaven." 

I  was  intrigued  by  that  question,  and 
if  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  willing,  I 
should  like  to  make  an  answer  to  that 
young  man  within  the  time  limitations 
this  morning;  and  if  the  congregation 


70 

Moniay,  April  S 

here  will  pardon  me,  I  will  talk  directly 
to  that  young  man  who  may  possibly 
be  in  attendance  because  I  believe  that 
his  question  is  the  question  that  is  being 
asked  by  every  serious-minded  Latter- 
day  Saint  youth  today. 

Young  man,  your  question  is  not 
unique.  It  is  not  different.  It  is  the 
same  question  that  has  been  asked  by 
the  honest-hearted  ever  since  the  world 
began.  It  is  the  question  that  was  in 
the  mind  of  Nicodemus,  the  master  in 
Israel,  when  he  came  to  the  Savior  by 
night,  and  the  Master  discerning  the 
purpose  of  his  coming,  explained  to 
him  what  was  necessary  in  order  for 
him  to  enter  or  even  to  see  the  kingdom 
of  God. 

It  was  the  same  question  asked  by 
the  zealous  Saul  of  Tarsus  on  that 
memorable  occasion  while  on  his  way 
to  Daihascus  when  he  was  blinded  by 
the  light;  he  heard  a  voice  speak  out 
of  heaven;  humbled  as  only  one  can  be 
humbled  in  the  presence  of  a  great 
spiritual  experience.  In  answer  to  the 
Lord's  rebuke,  the  humble  Saul  asked, 
"Lord,  what  wilt  thou  have  me  to  do?" 
(Acts  9:6.) 

It  was  the  cry  of  the  sinful  David 
who,  amidst  his  pleadings  and  his  suf- 
ferings, gained  the  knowledge  of  the 
course  which  he  must  pursue,  in  order 
that  his  soul  would  not  be  left  in  hell. 
It  was  the  same  thing  the  Jews  asked  on 
the  day  of  Pentecost:  "What  must  we  do 
to  be  saved?"  (See  Acts  2:37.) 

To  answer  your  question  fully,  and 
that  of  these  others  to  which  I  have 
made  reference  would  require  a  full  ex- 
planation of  the  plan  of  salvation  given 
in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  While 
yet  in  your  youth,  you  have  done  well 
to  ask  that  question,  young  man,  to  seek 
counsel  as  to  your  course  in  life,  for 
every  soul  who  lives  has  the  pbssibilit)^ 
as  you  have,  of  an  exaltation  in  the 
celestial  kingdom. 

I  wish  you  could  have  been  here  to 
the  general  priesthood  meeting  on  Sat- 
urday night,  but  maybe  you  were.  I 
wish  you  could  have  repeated  under 
President  McKay's  direction  the  first 
Article  of  Faith,  "We  believe  in  God, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

the  Eternal  Father,  and  in  His  Son, 
Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost," 
and  then  listened  intently  to  every 
word  as  you  repeated  with  President 
McKay  the  thirteenth  Article  of  Faith: 
"We  believe  in  being  honest,  true, 
chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in  do- 
ing good  to  all  men.  ..."  But  I  would 
have  you  this  morning  think  of  another 
of  the  Articles  of  Faith  in  cormection 
therewith  because  it  has  a  particular 
significance  in  the  answer  to  your  ques- 
tion: "We  believe  that  through  the 
Atonement  of  Christ,  all  mankind  may 
be  saved,  by  obedience  to  the  laws  and 
ordinances  of  the  Gospel."  (Third 
Article  of  Faith.) 

A  great  philosopher  has  said  the  same 
thing  in  other  words  when  he  declared: 
"Every  one  of  us,  with  the  help  of  God 
and  within  the  limitations  of  human 
capability,  himself  makes  his  own  dis- 
position, his  character,  and  his  perma^ 
nent  condition."  (Emil  Souvestre.) 

May  I  give  you  in  answer  to  your 
question  the  example  of  three  youths 
who,  faced  with  the  stern  temptations 
of  life,  met  those  tests  and  came  through 
nobly  and  victoriously,  despite  the  odds 
against  them.  I  say  I  give  you  these 
examples  in  order  that  you  may  learn 
and  recognize  three  of  the  great  dangers 
which  confront  youth  today. 

The  first,  an  example  of  a  young  girl, 
whom  I  met  when  I  was  asked  to  ad- 
dress a  group  of  young  girls  a  few 
years  ago  over  at  the  Lion  House  where 
they  were  being  shepherded  tmder  the 
direction  of  the  great  Yoimg  Women's 
Mutual  Improvement  Association.  At 
the  close  of  our  meetitig  this  lovely  girl 
took  me  aside,  and  from  her  purse  She 
unfolded  a  picture  of  a  handsome  yoimg 
soldier.  Underneath  the  picture  was 
something  about  love,  and  his  name 
signed.  I  asked,  "Well,  what  does  this 
mean?"  Tears  were  swimming  in  her 
eyes.  She  replied,  "I  met  that  young 
man  here  in  an  army  camp.  He  was 
not  a  member  of  the  Church.  He  was 
clean  and  fine,  and  he  had  the  ideals 
I  had  longed  for  in  a  companion,  all 
except  one  thing,  he  was  not  a  member 
of  the  Church.  And  when  he  proposed 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


71 


marriage  to  me,  I  said,  'Only  will  I  be 
married  wheh  I  can  be  married  in  the 
house  of  the  Lord  because  love  means 
something  more  than  just  a  thing  that 
pertains  to  this  life.  It  is  an  eternal 
thing,  and  I  want  to  be  married  in  the 
temple.' " 

Well,  he  reasoned  with  her,  he 
pleaded  with  her,  he  scolded,  and  then 
he  became  angry;  and  finally  after 
repeated  efforts  to  break  down  her  re- 
ligious objection  to  a  marriage  out  of 
the  temple,  he  finally  left  her.  It  was 
now  time  to  go  overseas,  and  she  cried 
her  heart  out  the  night  he  left  thinking 
that  maybe  she  had  made  a  mistake 
because  her  heart  had  gone  out  to  this 
fine  young  man. 

During  a  long  ocean  voyage  over  to 
Australia  where  he  was  to  be  stationed 
and  from  where  he  was  to  go  into  com- 
bat, he  began  to  think  about  this  young 
woman.  He  began  to  think  that  he 
had  been  a  little  hasty  in  his  judgment 
about  her  religious  convictions.  Perhaps 
it  was  her  religion  that  had  made  her 
the  fine  girl  that  she  was.  With  that 
on  his  mind,  he  began  to  seek  compan- 
ionship with  our  Latter-day  Saint  men. 
He  finally  met  a  Latter-day  Saint 
chaplain  there  and  became  associated 
with  the  Latter-day  Saint  boys  of  the 
camp  and  began  to  study  the  gospel. 
On  her  birthday  he  had  sent  her  this 
picture  attached,  and  behind  the  pic- 
ture was  a  slip  of  paper  which  proved 
to  be  a  certificate  evidencing  the  fact 
that  he  had  been  baptized  a  member  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  In  the  letter  which  accom- 
panied the  picture,  he  had  said,  "I  am 
preparing  now  to  live  worthy  so  that 
when  I  come  home,  I  can  be  ordained 
an  elder  and  together  we  can  be  mar- 
ried in  the  house  of  the  Lord." 

There,  yoimg  man,  is  the  first  thing 
that  you  must  think  of,  if  you  would 
have  an  exaltation  in  the  celestial  king- 
dom. Marriage  is  eternal,  and  there 
was  a  youth  who  realized  the  founda- 
tion on  which  she  must  build  if  she 
were  to  have  a  fulness  of  eternal  happi- 
ness. 

The  second  example  is  that  ot  m 


impetuous  young  man.  One  morning 
he  was  confronted  by  his  mother  with 
rather  a  startling  statement.  His 
mother  said  to  him,  "Son,  last  night  I 
had  a  premonition.  I  had  a  feeling 
that  you  are  going  to  be  faced  with  a 
grave  temptation  by  a  certain  woman 
who  is  setting  her  cap  for  you.  I  warn 
you  to  be  on  guard."  And  this  youth 
brushed  it  aside  in  his  characteristic 
way,  "Oh,  Mother,  you  are  silly;  noth- 
ing is  farther  from  the  fact.  She  is  a 
fine  woman."  And  the  mother  replied, 
"Well,  be  careful,  my  son."  Within 
thirty  days  from  the  time  of  his  mother's 
warning,  that  youth  stood  face  to  face 
with  the  temptation  about  which  his 
mother  had  been  warned. 

Youth,  if  you  want  to  be  guided  by 
wisdom,  stay  close  to  your  parents.  Lis- 
ten to  the  counsel  of  your  father  and 
your  mother  and  lean  heavily  upon  the 
experience  of  their  lives  because  they 
are  entitled  to  inspiration  in  the  rearing 
of  their  family.  Young  man,  may  I 
plead  with  you  to  keep  yourself  morally 
clean?  Revere  womanhood.  May  I 
remind  you  of  what  you  repeated  some 
years  ago  as  a  slogan  in  the  MIA.  It 
was  a  quotation  from  a  portion  of  a  mes- 
sage of  the  First  Presidency  particularly 
to  servicemen  in  military  service  during 
some  of  these  strenuous,  difficult  times 
through  which  you  and  others  like 
you  have  lived.  This  is  what  the  First 
Presidency  wrote:  "How  glorious  and 
near  to  the  angels  is  youth  that  is  clean. 
This  youth  has  joy  unspeakable  here 
and  eternal  happiness  hereafter.  Sexual 
purity  is  youth's  most  precious  posses- 
sion. It  is  the  foundation  of  all  right- 
eousness. Better  dead  clean,  than  alive 
unclean." 

Honor  your  name,  yoimg  man.  You 
have  come  of  an  illustrious  family.  Not 
to  maintain  the  high  standards  which 
the  Presidency  have  suggested  would  not 
only  be  a  blight  upon  you,  but  a  blight 
upon  that  great  family  name  you  bear, 
and  a  blight  upon  the  Church  for  which 
your  fordathers  and  ancestors  sacrificed 
their  lives  to  establish. 

In  the  prayer  at  the  dedication  of  the 
Idaho  Falls  Temple  the  First  Presi- 


72 

Monday,  April  5 

dency  said  something  of  great  im- 
portance to  the  girls  about  the  purity 
of  hfe.  This  is  what  the  Presidency 
wrote  in  that  inspired  prayer:  "We  pray 
for  the  daughters  of  Zion.  May  they 
be  preserved  in  virtue,  chastity,  and 
purity  of  hfe,  be  blessed  with  vigorous 
bodies  and  minds,  and  with  great  faith. 
May  they  develop  into  true  womanhood 
and  receive  choice  companions  under 
the  new  and  everlasting  covenant  for 
time  and  for  all  eternity  in  thy  temples 
provided  for  this  priceless  privilege  and 
purpose." 

Young  man,  should  you  find  compan- 
ionship with  a  beautiful  young  girl, 
will  you  remember  that  quotation,  and 
will  you  take  occasion  during  your 
courtship  to  read  to  her  that  most  vital 
message  from  the  prophets  of  the  living 
Gfod  in  our  day  to  warn  her  also  against 
one  of  the  besetting  sins  of  this  world 
in  which  we  live? 

May  I  now  give  you  the  third  exam- 
ple to  suggest  a  third  danger?  The 
story  of  this  incident  comes  from  the 
testimony  of  the  wife  of  a  mission 
president  who  just  returned  from  one 
of  our  Communist-dominated  countries. 
A  young  girl  attending  a  school  in  that 
country  one  day  was  abused  by  her 
teacher  when  he  learned  of  her  identity 
as  a  Latter-day  Saint  girl,  having  faith 
in  a  living  God.  As  a  pimishment  to 
her  he  demanded  that  she  sit  down 
and  write  fifty  times,  "There  is  no 
God."  This  little  girl,  shaken  by  the 
punishment  imposed  by  that  teacher, 
went  home  and  talked  it  over  with  her 
mother.  Her  mother  said,  "No,  my 
girl,  you  must  never  write,  'There  is  no 
God.'  You  go  back  and  tell  your  teacher 
you  know  there  is  a  God  and  you  can't 
lie."  And  the  girl  went  back  and  faced 
this  teacher,  and  he  said,  more  angrily 
than  ever,  "You  go  back  and  write 
that  and  write  it  a  hundred  times,  'There 
is  no  God,'  or  I  warn  you  that  some- 
thing terrible  will  happen  to  you." 

The  mother  and  daughter  prayed 
nearly  all  night  that  night,  and  then 
next  morning  they  fasted  and  went 
together  to  the  room  of  that  teacher. 
They  waited  for  him  to  come.  The 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

time  came  for  school  to  convene,  and 
he  didn't  show  up,  and  the  principal, 
seeing  that  they  were  waiting,  came  to 
them  and  asked,  "Are  you  waiting  for 
your  teacher?"  She  said,  "Yes,  we  are 
waiting  for  him."  "Well,  I  am  sorry 
to  tell  you  that  he  suffered  a  heart 
attack  and  died  suddenly  this  morn- 
ing." 

Something  terrible  did  happen,  but  it 
wasn't  to  that  young  girl.  It  happened 
to  a  man  inspired  with  satanic  motives. 

Young  man,  I  would  warn  you,  along 
with  the  others  of  your  age,  to  be  fore- 
warned of  the  threats  to  your  faith. 
I  warn  you  against  the  man-made 
philosophies  and  the  doctrines  which 
would  destroy  that  faith  in  God  basic 
to  exaltation  in  the  celestial  kingdom. 

If  you  remember  those  examples, 
yoimg  man,  and  live  worthy  of  your 
name,  the  marvelous  rewards  of  otir 
heavenly  Father  will  be  yours.  Listen 
to  what  the  Lord  promised: 

Verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord:  It  shall  come 
to  pass  that  every  soul  that  forsaketh  his 
sins  and  cometh  unto  me,  and  calleth  on 
my  name,  and  obeyeth  my  voice,  and  keep- 
eth  my  commandments,  shall  see  my  face 
and  shall  know  that  I  am.  (D.  &  C.  93:1.) 

And  after  you  begin  to  understand 
that,  then,  young  man,  go  to  the  76th 
Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
in  some  respects,  one  of  the  most  glori- 
ous visions  that  has  ever  been  given  to 
mortal  man.  Read  from  the  50th  to 
the  70th  verses  of  that  great  vision, 
and  you  will  have  understanding  in 
better  words  than  I  can  give  you  today. 

My  son,  go  and  have  your  patriarchal 
blessing,  for  there  under  inspiration  your 
patriarch  will  give  you,  as  someone  has 
said,  "paragraphs  from  the  book  of 
your  own  possibilities." 

And  now  after  this  brief  conversation 
with  you,  my  young  brother,  may  I 
close  it  by  a  little  quotation  from  a  great 
thinker  who  said  this: 

The  highest  of  all  arts  is  the  art  of  living 
well.  Beyond  the  beauty  of  sculpture  and 
painting,  of  poetry  or  music,  is  the  beauty 
of  a  well-spent  life.  Here  all  can  be 
artists.   Every  man  can  be  a  hero. 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 


73 


Obedience  to  that  divine  command,  "Be 
ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  Father 
which  is  in  heaven  is  perfect,"  (Matt.  5:48) 
will  ally  man  with  God  and  will  make  of 

earth  a  paradise. 

God  bless  you,  my  young  friend. 
Keep  on  thinking  the  serious  thoughts 
and  asking  those  serious  questions,  and 


in  time,  as  you  keep  your  eyes  fixed  upon 
the  stars  to  guide  you  on  and  on  and 
upward,  you  will  reach  your  objective — 
an  exaltation  in  the  celestial  kingdom 
of  our  Heavenly  Father,  which  I  pray 
for  you  and  all  youth  of  Zion,  and  all 
the  world  if  that  were  possible,  in  the 
name  ot  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


VERY  humbly  pray  for  the 
blessings  of  the  Lord  to  be 
with  me  as  I  address  you. 

I  take  the  privilege  because 
of  having  been  twice  presi- 
dent of  the  alumni  of  Brighara 
Young  University,  to  express  my  appre- 
ciation for  this  fine  chorus,  for  the  great 
institution  that  God  has  established.  It 
represents  so  much  of  our  heritage,  the 
sacrifice  of  our  fathers  and  mothers. 
God  bless  the  youth  that  they  may 
treasure  this  glorious  opportunity.  Hold 
high  the  standards  of  this  Church  at 
Brigham  Young  University.  May  the 
Lord  bless  you  to  grow  in  spirit  arid  in 
truth.  I 
I  have  a  friend  far  away,  stationed  at 
Shanghai,  China,  very  much  discour- 
aged. He  went  to  see  if  there  was  a 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  In  Shanghai.  He  was  weary, 
wanting  to  find  someone  with  whom  he 
might  talk  about  his  religion.  He  went 
to  the  United  States  consul.  The  consul 
sent  a  clerk  to  review  the  records.  "No, 
we  haven't  any  Mormons  here." 

"Well,  try  Latter-day  Saints."  They 
did. 

"Sorry,  yoimg  man,  we  have  no  one 
affiliated  with  that  Church  here  in 
Shanghai." 

He  went  back  to  his  barracks.  On  the 
bunk  he  saw  a  large  package,  and  there 
were  eight  fellows  sitting  there.  Some- 
thing of  this  type  generally  arouses 
curiosity  on  the  part  of  soldier  boys, 
and  they  suspected  very  seriously  that 


probably  there  was  some  candy  or  good- 
ies in  the  package,  and  they  had  come 
to  enjoy  the  festivities  with  the  young 
man. 

He  took  his  time  in  opening  the 
package,  which,  of  course,  was  his 
privilege.  Finally  he  snipped  the  string 
and  opened  it.  A  lovely  white  napkin 
was  unfolded,  and  in  it,  a  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. The  title  was  printed  in  large 
letters  on  the  outside  cover. 

The  fellows  began  to  drift  back 
to  their  bunks,  but  one  chap  sitting 
near  said,  "Book  of  Mormon."  The 
young  man  quickly  turned  to  his  friend 
and  said:  "What  do  you  know  about 
it?" 

"Why,  I  am  a  Mormon.  I  can  show 
you  where  there  are  a  couple  more." 

My  friend,  when  he  first  opened  the 
package  and  saw  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
grew  silent  for  a  moment  and  then  he 
said,  "Hello,  Mother."  He  was  back 
home  again.  He  knew  who  had  sent 
the  book. 

I  am  happy  to  say  to  youth  everywhere, 
prayerfully  study  the  word  of  God.  This 
is  one  of  the  greatest  opportunities  we 
have,  and  I  hope  you  will  take  the 
opportunity  of  it  now  before  that  hun- 
ger comes  in  the  after  years.  Do  it  now. 
Make  it  a  part  of  today  and  tomorrow 
and  the  next  day.  Here  at  this  con- 
ference we  have  enjoyed  the  guidance 
of  the  living  oracles,  and  we  are  greatly 
blessed,  but  now,  also  enrich  these 
words  by  being  a  student  of  the  word 
of  the  Lord. 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  5 

Another  humble  suggestion  I  would 
like  to  make  is,  live  and  enjoy  the  gospel. 
Live  it,  you  have  often  heard,  but  also 
enjoy  it.  Reflect  it  in  your  life  to  the 
man  who  lives  over  the  fence,  works  in 
the  office,  in  the  shop,  wherever  you 
may  go.  Reflect  the  joy  and  the  happi- 
ness of  living  it.  The  man  'and  the 
woman  who  live  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  are  our  greatest  exponents.  They 
are  our  greatest  missionaries. 

I  received  a  call  not  long  ago  from 
the  general  hospital  in  Los  Angeles, 
while  staying  in  Los  Angeles  at  one  of 
the  hotels.  On  the  other  end  of  the 
line  a  young  man  said:  "Brother  Kirk- 
ham,  I  am  back  from  Korea,  having  jxist 
landed  in  an  airplane.  I  will  be  oper- 
ated on  at  eight  o'clock  this  morning. 
Won't  you  come  and  be  with  me?" 

"Yes,  at  eight  o'clock  I  will  be  there." 

He  was  prepared  for  the  operating 
room.  The  doctor  said  to  the  nurse  as 
they  were  moved  forward,  "Take  his 
pulse,  will  you  please?  I  see  his  eyes 
are  closed.  He  may  have  gone.  I  have 
been  preparing  him  quite  seriously." 

In  a  moment  the  young  man  opened 
his  eyes  and  said,  "Doctor,  I  am  not 
gone.  I  was  just  saying  a  prayer  that 
God  would  guide  your  hands,  that  you 
would  operate  with  great  skill,  and 
that  I  would  be  blessed." 

For  an  hour  and  eighteen  minutes  he 
was  on  the  operating  table;  then  they 
took  him  back  to  his  room  for  rest  and 
recuperation.  I  went  down  to  meet 
my  friends  coming  for  me.  The  doctor 
passed  by  the  door  of  the  waiting  room 
of  the  hospital  and  called  me  out  and 
said,  "I  know  you  were  seriously  in- 
terested this  morning  with  what  hap- 
pened, but  to  me  this  was  just  another 
operation  at  the  hospital.  I  am  here 
nearly  every  day,  but  I  want  to  say  a 
word  to  you,  and  I  know  you  will  be 
interested.  When  that  boy  opened  his 
eyes  and  said,  'No,  I  am  not  gone.  I 
was  praying  for  God  to  guide  your 


Third  Day 

hand,'  I  felt  as  I  went  to  do  my  work 
that  there  was  a  special  spirit  that  was 
upon  me.  It  was  beyond  my  ordinary 
skill.  The  boy  had  sent  a  message  in 
prayer,  and  the  answer  came  to  help  me. 
I  am  not  sentimental,  Mr.  Kirkham, 
about  things  like  this,  but  I  wanted  to 
tell  you  that  this  morning  was  a  great 
event  in  my  life." 

Yes,  to  live  and  enjoy  the  spirit  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  that  moment 
when  we  need  it  so  badly,  when  life 
calls  us  to  a  great  task  at  a  deciding 
moment,  may  we  be  prepared  by  good 
living  to  speak  freely  and  frankly  to  the 
Lord  and  enjoy  his  holy  blessings, 

May  I  add  one  word  further.  Share 
these  blessings.  It  is  not  quite  complete 
imless  we  give  to  someone  that  which 
God  has  graciously  given  to  us.  Share 
the  blessings. 

Just  two  days  ago  on  the  elevator  in 
our  general  office,  I  met  a  young  man 
just  home  from  a  two-year  mission.  He 
said,  "I  want  you  to  meet  my  mother. 
Mother,  this  is  Brother  Kirkham."  Then 
he  turned  to  me  and  said,  "Mother  is 
going  on  a  mission.  I  just  came  home, 
and  we  have  been  working  it  out.  Of 
course,  you  know  Mother  is  a  widow. 
We  have  a  little  country  store,  but  we 
have  been  working  it  out.  Now  she.  is 
going,  and  we  are  very  happy." 

Yes,  prayerfully  study  the  word  of 
God.  Live  and  enjoy  the  gospel.  Share 
its  blessings,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  and  the  congregation 
joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "O  Ye 
Mountains  High." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Levi  Edgar  Young  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy  will  now  speak 
to  us. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


;  FEW  WEEKS  ago,  there  came 
j  to  Salt  Lake  City,  thirteen 
I  students  from  different  parts 
of  western  Germany.  They 
had  been  sent  to  the  United 
States  by  their  government, 
and  while  in  this  country,  they  became 
the  guests  of  the  different  cities  they 
visited,  and  the  railroads  gave  them 
free  transportation.  They  were  im- 
pressed with  Salt  Lake  City,  and  their 
few  hours  here  visiting  the  centers  of 
interest  and  meeting  some  of  the  people 
was  to  them  a  memorable  thing.  One 
of  the  young  ladies  remarked  that  they 
did  not  like  the  large  cities  for  the  peo- 
ple seemed  to  have  little  interest  in 
them.  They  had  words  of  gratitude  for 
the  manner  in  which  they  were  received 
and  the  spirit  of  brotherhood  that  they 
experienced  here  in  Salt  Lake  City. 
One  of  them  said:  "Tell  us  about  the 
United  States  and  particularly  of  your 
city  here  in  the  mountains."  They  were 
promised  a  letter  to  be  sent  to  them  in 
Germany,  and  I  am  taking  this  oppor- 
tunity of  reading  it  to  you. 

Our  government  of  the  United  States 
is,  as  you  know,  one  of  the  yoimgest 
nations  of  the  world's  history.  The 
government  was  organized  in  1789,  un- 
der the  supervision  of  the  first  president, 
George  Washington.  There  were  thir- 
teen divisions  called  states,  which  had 
been  settled  by  people  from  England, 
Germany,  France,  Italy,  Spain,  and 
the  Scandinavian  countries.  The  dom- 
inant people  were  English.  Most  of 
them  had  a  profoimd  belief  in  religion 
and  morality,  which  ideals  were  ex- 
pressed in  their  dvic  documents  like  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States.  It 
was  a  period  of  great  and  wise  men, 
and  among  them  were  families  from 
your  native  land.  The  noted  German 
soldier,  Baron  Von  Steuben,  was  an 
officer  in  Washington's  army,  and  the 
name  of  Hyam  Solomon  will  ever  be 
remembered  for  his  giving  his  entire 
fortune  to  the  American  cause  at  the 


time  of  the  terrible  suffering  at  Valley 
Forge.  Your  own  forefathers  had  not 
recovered  from  the  terrible  times  of  the 
Thirty  Years'  War  when  they  turned 
to  America.  In  Germany  there  were 
intense  poverty,  suffering,  and  religious 
persecutions  in  the  eighteenth  century. 
America  had  been  settled  along  the 
Atlantic  coast,  when  and  from  the  mass 
of  human  misery  came  your  forefathers 
who  settled  largely  in  Pennsylvania, 
Maryland,  and  Virginia.  They  brought 
with  them  a  love  for  the  arts  and  music 
and  adapted  themselves  to  the  new 
world. 

Children  of  your  fathers  entered  our 
schools  and  universities  and  came  to 
understand  our  American  civic  and 
political  life.  In  this  country,  you 
have  preserved  your  arts  and  music  and 
literatxire  and  great  schools  of  phil(«- 
ophy.  Your  Immanuel  Kant  was  known 
by  our  earliest  educators.  The  Germans 
have  come  to  know  the  fundamentals  of 
the  Constitution  of  the  United  States. 
If  you  were  attending  our  schools,  you 
would  learn  that  the  opening  state- 
ment of  the  Mayflower  Compact  is: 
"In  the  name  of  God,  Amen."  And  a 
little  later  you  find  the  words:  "...  for 
the  glory  of  God  and  advancement  of  the 
Christian  faith."  Americans  have  al- 
ways promoted  the  ideals  of  the  Chris- 
tian faith.  Among  our  noted  documents 
of  history  are  the  Articles  of  Confedera- 
tion, which  begin  with  these  lines: 

Whereas  we  all  came  to  these  parts  of 
America  with  one  and  the  same  end,  name- 
ly, to  advance  the  kingdom  of  our  Lord, 
Jesus  Christ,  and  to  enjoy  the  liberty  of  the 
gospel  in  its  purity. 

Then  I  have  pride  in  calling  your  at- 
tention to  the  first  meeting  held  in 
Virginia  known  as  the  General  Assem- 
bly of  Virginia.  To  this  meeting  came 
many  of  your  German  people,  possibly 
there  were  some  of  your  own  forebears. 
In  the  account  of  the  first  meeting  of  the 
Virginians,  we  have  these  lines: 


76  GENERAL  C 

Monday,  April  5 

...  for  as  much  as  men's  affairs  do 
little  prosper  where  God's  service  is 
neglect^,  all  the  burgesses  took  their  places 
in  the  choir  till  a  prayer  was  said  by  the 
Reverend  Mr.  Buche,  a  German  minister, 
"that  it  would  please  God  to  guide  and  to 
sanctify  all  our  proceedings  to  his  own 
glory." 

Finally,  read  the  Declaration  of  Inde- 
pendence, which  acknowledges  the  Cre- 
ator as  the  source  of  life  and  liberty, 
relies  upon  "the  protection  of  Divine 
Providence,"  and  is  written  in  a  spirit 
of  reverence,  with  an  appeal  to  the 
right  as  established  by  God.  You  see 
our  fathers  always  in  this  civic  and 
political  life,  acknowledged  the  leader- 
ship of  God  and  sought  humbly  to 
follow  him.  Take  your  Bible  and  read 
the  127th  Psalm: 

Except  the  Lord  build  the  house,  they 
labour  in  vain  that  build  it:  except  the 
Lord  keep  the  city,  the  watchman  waketh 
but  in  vain. 

Here  in  America,  men  were  free  to 
believe  as  they  wished.  The  history  of 
the  United  States  has  largely  been  a 
history  of  religious  beliefs.  In  fact, 
the  American  people  are  naturally  be- 
lievers in  God,  the  eternal  Father,  and 
in  his  Son  Jesus,  the  Christ. 

After  the  lapse  of  the  ages  when  a 
new  world  of  discovery  and  invention 
had  changed  man's  social  outlook,  and 
the  way  of  living  had  been  recreated  in 
the  world,  it  was  natural  that  someone 
should  come  forth  to  look  to  God  for  a 
revelation  of  his  holy  word.  Many 
stouthearted  followers  of  the  Holy  Bible 
looked  toward  the  new  day.  In  1620, 
Pastor  John  Robinson,  in  bidding  the 
Pilgrim  Fathers  good-bye  as  they  left 
the  shores  of  Holland  for  far-off  Amer- 
ica, said  to  his  congregation  of  faithful 
men  and  wornen: 

If  God  reveal  anything  to  you,  by  any 
other  instrument  of  His,  be  as  ready  to 
receive  it  as  ever  you  were  to  receive  truth 
by  my  ministry;  for  I  am  fully  persuaded, 
I  am  very  confident,  that  the  Lord  has 
more  truth  yet  to  break  forth  out  of  His 
holy  word.  ...  I  beseech  you  to  remember 


Third  Day 

it  is  an  article  in  your  Church  Covenant 
that  you  be  ready  to  receive  whatever  truth 
shall  be  made  known  to  you  from  the  writ- 
ten word  of  God. 

During  the  French  Revolution, 
Michelet  wrote  in  his  history  of  France: 

The  world  is  waiting  for  a  Faith  to  march 
forward  again,  to  breathe  and  to  live.  But 
never  can  a  faith  have  a  beginning  in  de- 
ceit, cunning,  or  treatise  of  falsehood. 

Soon  after  these  words  were  written, 
there  was  born  on  the  frontier  of  the 
United  States  "a  new  Faith  to  march 
forward  again,  to  breathe  and  to  live." 
A  young  boy  walked  into  the  woods  one 
day — a  boy  not  hungering  for  food,  but 
for  God,  and  like  the  shepherds  of  old, 
he  felt  he  must  go  "  .  .  .  even  unto 
Bethlehem."  (Luke  2:15.) 

The  youthful  prophet  was  Joseph 
Smith,  who  knew  that  what  the  world 
needed  first,  and  to  the  end,  was  God. 
Not  God  in  the  heavens  alone  and  in 
the  past,  but  God  here,  and  ready  by 
the  man  "whom  he  hath  ordained"  to 
repeat  and  enlarge  the  work  given  to 
the  world  eighteen  hundred  years  be- 
fore. Joseph  Smith  had  that  divine 
discontent,  which  gave  him  the  cer- 
tainty that  whoever  opens  his  heart  to 
the  Savior  of  mankind  receives  life,  and 
light,  and  strength. 

From  the  day  that  the  Prophet  an- 
notmced  his  divine  calling  until  his 
death,  he  wrote  and  spoke  the  revela- 
tions of  God  and  became  the  clarion  of 
a  new  day.  He  awakened  a  new  eager- 
ness in  the  hearts  of  men.  He  met  the 
problems  of  the  ethical  and  religious 
conditions  of  mankind  and  gave  anew 
the  way  from  the  material  world  to  the 
kingdom  of  God.  The  finer  elements 
of  life  were  restored  to  primacy.  Himiaii 
conduct  was  won  to  better  issues,  which 
are  the  cultivation  of  righteousness  in 
the  entire  life  and  activity  of  mankind. 

The  coming  of  John  the  Baptist,  and 
later  of  Peter,  James,  and  John,  re- 
sulted in  the  establishment  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  for  these  holy  men  had  restored 


ELDER  LEVI  i 

the  priesthood  of  God,  and  the  divine 
work  of  these  latter  days  was  begun 
for  the  redemption  and  salvation  of 
mankind.  The  plight  of  the  world  at 
that  time  was  its  lack  of  vision,  its 
loss  of  the  principles  of  the  gospel  of 
our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ.  With 
the  restoration  of  the  gospel  came  a 
spiritual  conviction,  a  dynamic  knowl- 
edge, which  has  been  woven  into  the 
very  lives  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
Man's  relationship  to  his  heavenly 
Father  has  become  known.  There  is  a 
new  vision  of  the  kingdom  of  God,  the 
purpose  of  which  is  to  culminate  in  the 
reign  of  righteousness  upon  the  earth. 
This  is  the  prevalent  note  in  the  re- 
stored gospel.  God  reigns  in  heaven 
and  in  earth.  He  is  the  divine  King  of 
nations. 

Out  of  our  faith,  we  find  everything 
that  is  holy  and  pure  and  of  good  re- 
port. The  morning  of  the  first  Sabbath 
day  after  the  arrival  of  the  Pioneers  in 
this  valley,  Saturday,  July  24,  1847,  di- 
vine services  were  held,  and  the  people 
were  seated  in  a  circle  out  in  the  sage- 
brush, and  nearby  were  the  waters  of 
a  lovely  stream.  Gratitude  to  God  was 
expressed  in  song  and  prayer,  and  the 
words  of  Isaiah  were  read  by  Apostle 
Orson  Pratt,  who  gave  the  sermon: 

How  beautiful  upon  the  mountains  are 
the  feet  of  him  that  bringeth  good  tidings, 
that  publisheth  peace;  that  bringeth  good 
tidings  of  good,  that  publisheth  salvation; 
that  saith  unto  Ziont,  Thy  God  reignethi 

Thy  watchmen  shall  lift  up  the  voice; 
with  the  voice  together  shall  they  sing: 
for  they  shall  see  eye  to  eye,  when  the  Lord 
shall  bring  again  Zion.  (Isaiah  52:7-8.) 

The  Latter-day  Saints  believe  and 
know  honestly  that  Adam  came  to  earth 
sent  of  God,  from  heaven.  He  held  the 
priesthood  of  God  and  became  the  first 
teacher  of  the  gospel  to  his  descendants. 
The  divine  ideals  as  taught  by  the 
Father  of  us  all  were  held  sacred,  and 
from  that  time  to  the  days  of  the  Messiah 
upon  the  earth,  the  truths  of  God  were 
planted  in  the  hearts  of .  his  children. 
Maurice  Maeterlinck,  in  his  book.  The. 


JGAR  YOUNG  77 

Great  Secret,  says  that  what  we  read 
in  the  oldest  archives  of  wisdom  gives 
only  a  faint  idea  of  the  sublime  doc- 
trines of  the  ancient  teachers.  The 
older  the  texts,  the  more  pure,  the  more 
awe-inspiring  are  the  doctrines  they 
reveal.  They  may  be  merely  an  echo 
of  sublimer  doctrines.  We  come  down 
to  the  age  of  the  prophets.  Says  a 
noted  historian: 

How  fitting  it  is  that  Malachi  should 
seal  up  the  book  of  the  Old  Testament 
prophecy  by  such  a  clear  statement  of  the 
coming  of  the  Lord,  the  Messenger  of  the 
Covenant,  the  Son  of  righteousiness,  and 
thus  give  the  last  prediction  of  him,  with 
whom  the  evangelists  begin  their  gospel 
history. 

Hugo  Munsterberg  of  Harvard  Univer- 
sity, a  noted  German,  wrote,  in  his 
Psychology  and  Life,  something  of  the 
past  glory  of  the  sacred  words: 

There  is  a  truth,  a  beauty,  a  morality, 
which  is  independent  of  psychological  con- 
ditions. Every  straightforward  man,  to 
whom  the  duties  of  his  real  life  are  no 
sounding  brass,  speaks  with  a  sound  voice 
to  the  psychologist:  "There  are  more  things 
in  heaven  and  earth  than  are  dreamt  of 
in  your  philosophy." 

By  the  power  of  the  Holy  Priesthood 
which  Joseph  Smith  received  from 
heaven,  he  established  our  true  rela- 
tionship to  God.  Out  of  this  grows  the 
salvation  of  man — ^his  true  immortal 
life.  The  nations  all  bear  witness  to 
the  need  of  a  light  that  is  not  of  man. 
We  can  give  our  word  to  the  world  that 
the  forces  which  ar«!  to  make  the  world 
what  it  ought  to  be  are  now  within  it. 
We  are  to  stiidy  more  deeply  and  con- 
stantly the  divine  truths  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  We  must  know  the 
history  of  the  Church  of  which  we  are 
members.  We  must  imderstand  the 
meanmg  of  the  priesthood  of  God,  which 
has  been  given  to  us.  We  must  know 
the  divine  teachings  of  the  Holy  Bible, 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price. 
How  beautifully  do  they  teach  the  words 
of  Shakespeare: 


78  GENERAL  ( 

Monday,  April  S 

What  a  piece  of  work  is  man!  how  noble 
in  reasonl  how  infinite  in  faculty!  in  form 
and  moving  how  express  and  admirable! 
in  action  how  like  an  angel!  in  apprehen- 
sicm  how  like  a  godl  (Shakespeare,  Hcmlet, 
Act  n.  Sc.  2.) 

What  a  directive  ptirpose  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  gives  us  in  the  words  as 
found  in  the  88th  section  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants: 

.  .  .  seek  ye  diligently  and  teach  one  an- 
other words  of  wisdom;  yea,  seek  ye  out  of 
the  best  books  words  of  wisdom;  seek  learn- 
ing, even  by  study  and  also  by  faith. 

Organize  yourselves;  prepare  every  need- 
ful titling;  and  establish  a  hcmse,  even  a 
house  of  prayer,  a  house  of  fasting,  a  house 
of  faith,  a  house  of  learning,  a  house  of 
glory,  a  house  of  order,  a  house  of  God. 
(Verses  118-119.) 

From  the  beginning  of  the  history  of 
the  Churdi,  Joseph  Smith  organized 
schools  of  learning.  He  became  a  stu- 
dent and  a  member  of  the  Latin,  Greek, 
and  Hebrew  classes  established  in  the 
Kirtland  Temple.  He  established  the 
University  of  the  City  of  Nauvoo, 
encouraged  the  building  of  the  Seven- 
ties' Hall  of  Science.  From  these  insti- 
tutions came  the  wonderful  schools  of 
learning  in  Utah. 

In  1851,  the  first  extensive  library 
was  brought  by  ox  teams  to  this  state. 
It  had  been  purchased  in  New  Ywk 
City  by  Dr.  John  M.  Bemhisel  and  was 
a  wonderful  collection  of  books.  There 
were  the  works  of  Shakespeare,  Milton, 
Bacon,  Homer,  Juvenal,  Lucretius, 
Virgil,  Euripides,  Sophocles,  Plato, 
Montaigne,  Tacitus,  Spenser,  Herodotus, 
Goldsmith,  and  many  others  of  the 
great  masters  of  the  world's  best  litera- 
ture. The  library  received  copies  of 
the  New  York  Herald,  New  York  Eve- 
ning Post,  the  Philadelphia  Saturday 
Courier,  and  the  North  American  Re- 
view. Of  the  scientific  works  there  were 
Newton's  Principia,  Herschel's  Outlines 
of  Astronomy,  and  Von  Humboldt's 
Cosmos.  The  treatises  on  philosophy 
included  the  works  of  John  Stuart  Mill, 
Martin  Luther,  John  Wesley,  and 
&nanuel  Swedenborg. 


Third  Day 

The  pioneers  were  always  striving  to 
understand  the  arts  and  sciences,  for 
they  sensed  keenly  the  power  of  all 
truth.  They  knew  the  human  con- 
stants— hunger  and  labor,  seedtime  and 
harvest,  love  and  faith — ^which  entered 
into  their  lives  from  the  very  first. 
They  built  the  Tabernacle  which  you 
visited.  They  continued  establishing 
schools  and  colleges  and  established  a 
theater  in  the  wilderness  which  in  time 
became  recognized  by  the  artists  of  the 
London  stage  as  well  as  the  famous 
dramatists  of  America.  Mr.  M.  B. 
Leavitt  has  written  in  his  Fifty  Years  of 
the  American  Stage: 

Sweeping  as  the  statement  may  seem,  I 
do  not  believe  that  the  theater  has  ever 
rested  on  a  higher  plane,  both  as  to  its 
purpose  and  its  offerings,  than  at  Salt  Lake 
City,  the  Capital  of  Mormondom. 

Utah  today  has  become  a  great  state. 
Ellsworth  Huntington  of  Yale  Univer- 
sity, has  recently  written  in  his  book, 
entitled.  Civilization  and  Climate: 

The  proud  position  of  Utah  is  presum- 
ably the  result  of  Mormonism.  The  leaders 
of  that  faith  have  had  the  wisdom  to  insist 
on  a  thorough  system  of  schools,  and  have 
obliged  the  children  to  attend  them.  The 
"Gentiles"  have  in  self-defence,  been  forced 
to  do  equally  well,  and  the  result  has  been 
admirable.  Whatever  one  may  think  of 
Mormonism  as  a  religious  belief,  it  must 
be  credited  with  having  accomplished  a 
remarkable  work  in  spreading  a  moderate 
degree  of  education  almost  universally 
among  the  people  of  ytah. 

Count  Hermann  Keyserling,  the  noted 
German  philosopher  and  historian, 
came  to  Salt  Lake  City  a  few  years  ago 
and  afterwards  wrote  in  his  Travel 
Diary  of  a  Philosopher,  these  words: 

The  Mormons  have  achieved  a  civiliza- 
tion hardly  attained  by  any  other  people. 
In  barely  half  a  centiuy  they  have  changed 
a  salt-desert  into  a  garden.  They  are, 
moreover,  admirable  citizens,  law  abiding, 
honest,  and  progressive. 

All  the  religious  denominations  of  the 
world  have  been  welcomed  to  Utah. 
One  of  our  Articles  of  Faith  says: 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


79 


We  claim  the  privilege  of  worshiping 
Almighty  God  according  to  the  dictates  of 
our  own  conscience  and  allow  all  men  the 
same  privilege,  let  them  worship  how,  where, 
or  what  they  may. 

Wherever  the  Mormons  have  settled, 
this  has  been  the  attitude  of  the  Church 
toward  all  denominations  and  peoples. 
In  an  ordinance  relating  to  religious 
societies  passed  by  the  city  council  of 
Nauvoo,  we  have  these  words: 

AN  ORDINANCE  RELATING  TO 
RELIGIOUS  SOCIETIES 

Be  it  ordained  by  the  City  Council  of 
the  City  of  Nauvoo,  that  the  Catholics, 
Presbyterians,  Methodists,  Baptists,  Latter- 
day  Saints,  Quakers,  Episcopalians,  Uni- 
versalists.  Unitarians,  Mohammedans,  and 
all  other  religious  sects  and  denominations 
whatever,  shall  have  free  toleration  and 
equal  privileges  in  this  city;  and  should  any 
person  be  guilty  of  ridiculing  or  abusing 
or  otherwise  depreciating  another  in  con- 
sequence of  his  religion,  or  of  disturbing  or 
interrupting  any  religious  meeting  wiUiin 
the  limits  of  this  city,  he  shall  on  convic- 
tion thereof  before  the  Mayor  or  Municipal 
Court  be  fined  or  imprisoned  at  the  dis- 
cretion of  the  Mayor  or  Court. 

You  are  now  to  be  conducted  to  our 
central  place  of  worship,  the  Tabernacle. 
Elder  Zimmerman,  my  brother  in  the 
priesthood  of  God,  will  conduct  you 
there  and  will  tell  you  much  about 
the  building.  Professor  T.  E.  Tall- 
madge,  Fellow  American  Institute  of 
Architects,  says  in  his  Story  of  Archi- 
tecture in  America: 

Up  and  down  the  Atlantic  Seaboard, 
through  the  Western  reserve,  along  the  Gulf 
of  Mexico,  up  the  Mississippi,  and  over  the 
plains,  the  Greek  Revival  spread.  I  have 
noticed  that  the  famous  Tabernacle  built 
in  Salt  Lake  City  by  that  extraordinary  man, 
Brigham  Young,  has  the  tell-tale  Greek 
profiles  in  its  mouldings  and  cornices. 

In  some  of  our  early-day  buildings 
we  fmd  no  lack  of  knowledge  and  ap^ 
predation  of  the  fine  arts.  You  may 
recall  how  you  Germans  had  been  in- 


Suenced  by  the  Greeks  in  your  fine 
ardiitecttire.  I  recall  a  number  of  great 
buildings  notable  in  architectural  his- 
tory where  the  Greek  influence  is  plainly 
seen.  I  may  mention  the  old  Musetim 
and  the  Brandenburg  Gate  in  Berlin, 
and  in  Vienna,  the  Parliament  House. 
As  you  listen  to  the  music  of  the  great 
organ  which  was  built  by  a  noted  or- 
ganist in  Pioneer  days,  it  gives  me 
pride  to  tell  you  that  the  Tabernacle 
is  now  known  as  one  of  the  greatest 
symphony  halls  in  the  world.  As  early 
as  1875,  our  people  heard  the  music  of 
Beethoven  and  Bach,  and  picking  up 
a  program  of  Easter  Choral  Services  in 
1949,  we  find  that  Jesu,  Priceless 
Treasure  of  Johann  Sebastian  Bach,  to- 
gether with  the  Requiem  of  Johannes 
Brahms,  constituted  the  program.  The 
great  Brahms  Requiem  is  not  a  mass  for 
the  dead  but  rather  an  ode  to  the  de- 
parted. 

This  is  just  to  tell  you  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  have  been  lovers  of  the 
classical  music  as  well  as  of  all  the 
arts  and  literature  since  the  Church 
was  organized.  Many  a  time,  the  peo- 
ple have  in  worship  sung  with  the  choir: 
"How  Lovely  Is  Thy  Dwelling  Place, 
O  Lord  of  Hosts." 

May  I  say  in  conclusion,  my  fellow 
students,  that  the  Mormon  people  have 
expressed  their  love  of  God  by  their 
constant  faith  and  prayer  which  have 
resulted  in  great  love  for  all  peoples 
wherever  they  live  on  the  earth. 

I  pray  that  you  students  may  have  a 
prosperous  and  happy  journey  through- 
out America  and  that  you  may  return 
to  your  homes  in  peace  and  safety.  May 
Grod  ever  bless  you. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Levi  Edgar  Young  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy  has  just  ad- 
dressed us. 

Our  concluding  speaker  will  be  Elder 
Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.  ' 


80 

Monday,  April  S 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Third  Day 


SHORT  time  ago,  in  com- 
pany with  Brother  J.  Leon- 
ard Love  of  the  welfare 
committee,  I  had  the  op- 
portunity of  attending  a 
stake  conference  at  Snow- 
flake,  Arizona.  While  there,  we  were 
invited  to  a  dinner  which  was  being 
held  for  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  boys 
of  the  stake.  It  was  a  memorable  occa- 
sion. The  program  was  delightful. 
Several  beautiful  numbers  were  given, 
one  of  which  was  a  solo  by  a  young 
boy  who  had  a  clear  soprano  voice.  It 
was  a  solo  which  brought  back  to  my 
mind  a  number  of  wonderful  memories. 
That  young  man  stood  up  before  those 
four  hundred  or  more  boys  and  sang: 

A  "Mormon"  boy,  a  "Mormon"  boy, 
I  am  a  "Mormon"  boy; 
I  might  be  envied  by  a  king. 
For  I  am  a  "Mormon"  boy. 

That  song  was  written  by  Evan 
Stephens,  and  as  it  was  sung,  I  remem- 
bered that  as  a  boy  I  sang  this  song 
also;  and  I  had  the  opportunity  of  sing- 
ing with  a  large  boys'  chorus  here  in 
this  Tabernacle  under  the  direction  of 
Evan  Stephens.  I  learned  to  honor 
him  then,  and  I  loved  this  song.  Let 
me  read  to  you  a  little  more  from  it: 

My  father  is  a  "Mormon"  true. 

And  when  I  am  a  man, 

I  want  to  be  like  him,  and  do 

Just  all  the  good  I  can. 

My  faults  I'll  try  to  overcome, 

And  while  I  life  enjoy. 

With  pride  I'll  lift  my  head  and  say, 

I  am  a  "Mormon"  boy. 

A  "Mormon"  boy,  a  "Mormon"  boy, 

I  am  a  "Mormon"  boy; 

I  might  be  envied  by  a  king, 

For  I  am  a  "Mormon"  boy. 

About  this  time  my  father  was  my 
Sunday  School  teacher,  and  a  little 
later  he  became  the  instructor  in  our 
deacons'  quorvun.  I  used  to  honor  him 
as  I  sang  this  song.  I  also  remembered 


my  heavenly  Father,  and  the  command 
which  the  Savior  gave  us  to  strive  to 
become  like  him.  And  then  as  I  would 
sing  this  song,  not  only  would  I  have 
gratitude  to  my  earthly  father,  but  to 
my  heavenly  Father,  also,  and  I  would 
sing,  "I  want  to  be  like  him,  and  do  just 
all  the  good  I  can." 

As  I  listened  to  that  boy  in  Snowflake 
sing  this  song,  I  thought  how  often  it 
is  that  our  boys  and  our  girls,  when 
they  get  into  junior  high  and  possibly 
into  senior  high,  feel  as  if  they  are 
growing  up  and  must  put  away  child- 
ish things.  It  is  true  that  they  must 
put  away  certain  childish  acts,  but 
other  things  which  are  taught  them  in 
childhood  are  so  very  important  and 
so  basic  that  all  through  their  lives 
they  must  remember  them.  The  mes- 
sage of  this  song  by  Evan  Stephens  is 
one  of  them. 

A  "Mormon"  boy.  ... 

I  might  be  envied  by  a  king. 

For  I  am  a  "Mormon"  boy. 

And  then  there  was  another  song 
that  I  loved  very  much  as  a  yotmg  lad. 
It  carries  with  it  another  glorious  lesson 
which  our  young  people  should  remem- 
ber even  though  they  begin  to  grow  up 
in  those  high  school  years.  The  song 
to  which  I  refer  is  one  written  by  Eliza 
R.  Snow.  You  remember  that  Sister 
Snow  wrote,  "O  My  Father,"  "How 
Great  the  Wisdom  and  the  Love,"  and 
some  others  of  our  most  beautiful 
hymns.  But  she  knew  also  how  to 
write  for  yoimg  people.  In  this  beautiful 
song  she  placed  the  ideals  of  the  Church 
in  the  language  of  children,  and  had 
them  sing  it  in  the  hope  that  as  they 
grew  up  they  would  not  abandon  the 
ideals  of  which  she  spoke,  but  would 
allow  them  to  become  steadily  more 
important  in  their  lives.  I  hope  every 
one  of  you  continues  to  sing  it,  and 
to  himi  it  over  as  you  go  along  the 
street,  and  that  you  reniember  the 
great  lessons  she  wrote  into  it: 


ELDER  MARK 

In  our  lovely  Deseret, 
Where  the  Saints  of  God  have  met. 
There's  a  multitude  of  childrm  all  around; 
They  are  generous  and  brave; 
They  have  precious  souls  to  save; 
They  must  listen  and  obey  the  gospel's 
soimd. 

All  of  you  know  those  words.  Aren't 
they  glorious?  And  isn't  it  stimulating 
music  which  has  been  written  to  these 
words?  But  listen  to  some  of  the  more 
important  things  Sister  Snow  taught  to 
young  people  in  their  childhood,  hoping 
to  establish  in  their  hearts  by  song  the 
high  standards  that  are  so  vital  and 
important  to  these  boys  and  girls  as 
they  grow  up  and  accomplish  the  things 
that  Brother  Lee  has  referred  to  here 
this  morning: 

That  the  children  may  live  long 
And  be  beautiful  and  strong 
Tea  and  coffee  and  tobacco  they  despise. 
Drink  no  liquor,  and  they  eat 
But  a  very  little  meat; 
They  are  seeking  to  be  great  and  good  and 
wise. 

When  I  was  in  school  one  time,  I 
accompanied  the  class  to  Provo  and 
went  through  the  institution  down  there 
for  the  mentally  afflicted.  We  saw 
one  young  man  there  who  had  a  queer 
tendency  in  that  he  always  wanted  to 
be  striking  himself  on  the  head.  I  re- 
member as  students  how  we  thought 
this  man  was  so  to  be  pitied  because 
he  didn't  have  any  more  sense  than  to 
strike  himself  on  the  head.  As  we  were 
talking  about  that  one  day,  I  thought 
of  this  song: 

That  the  children  may  live  long, 

And  be  beautiful  and  strong. 

Tea  and  coffee  and  tobacco  they  despise. 

Drink  no  liquor,  and  they  eat 

But  a  very  little  meat. 

As  young  people  we  talked  about  it, 
remembering  this  man  who  wanted  to 
strike  himself  on  the  head.  One  of  the 
students  then  said,  "Well,  whidi  is 
crazier,  to  be  batting  yourself  on  the 
head  all  the  time,  or  to  be  taking  things 
into  your  body  that  would  poison  you? 
Which  is  v«;orse — ^to  poison  your  body 


E.  PETERSEN  81 

and  defile  it,  to  make  yourself  intoxi- 
cated so  that  you  don't  know  what  you 
are  doing,  even  losing  your  self-con- 
trol, or  to  bat  yourself  on  the  head? 
Which  is  the  crazier  of  the  two? 

Now  think  in  terms  of  modern  science. 
Think  how  doctors  are  discovering, 
despite  the  arguments  of  all  the  tobacco 
companies,  to  the  contrary,  that  you  do 
tend  to  develop  cancer  of  the  limg 
through  cigarets.  Which  is  crazier,  to 
bat  yourself  on  the  head  with  a  stick, 
or  to  bring  into  your  body  these  things 
that  will  destroy  your  body?  Which  is 
crazier? 

Drink  no  liquor,  and  they  eat 
But  a  very  little  meat; 
They  are  seeking  to  be  great  and  good  and 
■mse, 

I  ask  you  young  people,  is  there  any- 
thing childish  in  this  song  when  you 
really  think  about  it?  Can  you  see 
anything  childish  in  this  injunction  to 
avoid  these  stimulants,  these  narcotics, 
these  intoxicating  things,  which  not  only 
affect  your  body  adversely  but  will  also 
destroy  your  spirituality  and  your  faith 
in  God,  if  you  allow  them  to? 

That  the  children  may  live  long 
And  be  beautiful  and  strong. 
Tea  and  coffee  and  tobacco 

and  liquor  and  all  these  other  evil 
things  they  despise  1 
And  then  there  is  the  next  stanza: 

They  should  be  instructed  young 
How  to  watch  and  guard  the  tongue. 
And  their  tempers  train,  and  evil  passions 
bind; 

They  should  always  be  polite. 

And  treat  ev'rybody  right. 

And  in  ev'ry  place  be  affable  and  Idnd. 

I  have  thought  a  great  deal  about 
that  at  different  times.  I  am  sure  we 
should  be  instructed  young.  I  recall 
that  Solomon  said  that  if  we  are  proper- 
ly taught  when  we  are  young,  we  will 
not  depart  from  those  important  things 
when  we  grow  up. 

We  should  watch  and  guard  the 
tongue.  I  used  to  think  this  meant  only 
profanity,  and  that  is  extremely  im- 


82  GENERAL  C 

Monday,  April  S 

portant,  because  one  of  the  great  com- 
mandments is  that  we  shall  not  profane 
the  name  of  God.  He  will  not  allow 
us  to  go  free  if  we  do  profane  his  holy 
name. 

But  the  more  I  think  of  the  things 
that  Brother  Lee  so  beautifully  dis- 
cussed here  this  morning,  the  more  I 
am  convinced  that  Eliza  R.  Snow  was 
inspired  in  guiding  the  young  people  to 
watch  and  guard  the  tongue  against 
speaking  of  evil  and  demoralizing  things 
which  put  evil  thoughts  in  the  minds 
and  sometimes  lead  to  evil  acts  which 
are  themselves  destructive  of  the  very 
soul;  including  evil  stories  and  evil  re- 
marks about  the  opposite  sex.  "They 
should  be  instructed  young  how  to 
watch  and  guard  the  tongue,  and  their 
tempers  train."  And  that  is  so  im- 
portant. 

"And  evil  passions  bind.  ..." 

I,  too,  get  letters  from  young  people. 
I  got  one  the  other  day  from  a  girl  who 
wanted  to  know.  Is  it  wrong  to  pet?  She 
said,  frankly,  "I  don't  know.  Will  you 
tell  me,  is  it  wrong  to  pet?"  And  I  wrote 
back  to  that  girl  and  told  her  that 
petting  is  one  of  the  most  pernicious 
things  that  ever  came  into  the  world, 
and  that  when  young  people  pet  they 
lay  the  foundation  for  the  destruction 
of  their  morals.  In  fact  petting  is  in 
and  of  itself  a  partial  loss  of  virtue,  and 
when  any  young  people  pet,  they  to 
that  degree  lose  their  chastity.  The 
Lord  said  that  when  anyone  looks  upon 
others  to  lust  after  them,  they  have 
committed  adultery  with  them  already 
in  their  heart 

They  should  be  instructed  young, 
How  to  watch  and  guard  the  tongue, 
And  their  tempers  train,  and  evil  pas- 
sions bind; 
They  should  always  be  polite, 
And  treat  ev'rybody  right. 
And  in  ev'ry  place  be  affable  and  kind. 

Nothing  childish  in  that,  is  there? 
Shouldn't  we,  as  we  grow  up,  even 
through  high  school  and  college  and 
into  mature  adulthood  continue  to  sing 
"In  Our  Lovely  Deseret"? 


Third  Day 

And  then  this  last  verse  which  every 
one  of  us  should  remember,  particularly 
as  young  people,  because  it  will  help 
us  to  keep  on  the  right  path: 

They  must  not  forget  to  pray, 
Night  and  morning,  ev'ry  day. 
For  the  Lord  to  keep  them  safe  from  ev'ry 
ill. 

And  assist  them  to  do  right. 

That  with  all  their  mind  and  might. 

They  may  love  him  and  may  learn  to  do 

his  will. 

As  I  have  studied  that  song  and  the 
philosophy  expressed  in  it  by  this  glorious 
poet,  I  begin  to  understand  what  in  my 
boyhood  I  did  not  understand:  why  it 
is  that  a  Mormon  boy  might  be  envied 
by  a  king. 

And  now  because  I  have  some  realiza- 
tion of  what  Sister  Snow  wrote  in  this 
song,  I  can  understand  that  you  girls 
of  the  Church,  every  one  of  you,  might 
well  be  envied  by  a  queen,  if  you  will 
but  live  up  to  the  principles  of  the 
everlasting  gospel. 

And  every  boy  in  the  Church  truly 
might  be  envied  by  a  king  because  he 
himself  is  kingly  by  reason  of  the 
righteousness,  the  cleanliness,  the  faith- 
fulness of  his  life. 

May  every  boy  and  girl  experience 
that  joy  is  my  himible  prayer,  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Mark 
E.  Petersen  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles.  The  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
sity Combined  Choruses  will  now  favor 
us  with  "And  the  Glory  of  the  Lord," 
conducted  by  Elder  Don  L.  Earl.  The 
benediction  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Lorin  F.  Jones,  formerly  President  of  the 
Spanish  American  Mission,  after  which 
this  Conference  will  be  adjourned  until 
2  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

The  singing  for  this  session  has  been 
furnished  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses  under  the 
direction  of  Elder  Don  L.  Earl;  Elder 
Alexander  Schreiner  is  at  the  organ. 
These  singers  will  be  with  us  again  this 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


83 


ciftemoon.  "And  the  glory  of  the  Lord" 
will  now  be  rendered  by  me  Chorus. 

The  Combined  Choruses  sang  an 
anthem,  "And  The  Glory  of  the  Lord," 


after  which  the  benediction  was  offered 
by  Elder  Lorin  F.  Jones,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  Spanish  American  Mission. 

Conference  adjourned  imtil  2  o'clock 
pjn. 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  in  the  fifth 
session  at  2  o'clock  p.m.,  Monday,  April 
5. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  furnished  the  choral 
music  for  this  session.  Crawford  Gates 
conducted  the  signing  and  Alexander 
Schreiner  was  at  the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  fifth  session  of  the  124th 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  To 
the  radio  audience  listening  in,  we  are 
pleased  to  announce  that  the  Tabernacle 
is  crowded  as  heretofore  in  sessions  held 
during  this  Conference.  To  those  who 
are  unable  to  gain  admittance  to  the 
Tabonacle,  we  announce  that  overflow 
meetings  are  held  in  the  Assenibly  Hall 
and  in  Btoatt  Hall,  wheire  a  public 
address  system  and  television  are  operat- 
ing. 

These  services  are  also  bein^  televised 
over  KSL  television,  channel  5,  and  will 
be  heard  over  radio  station  KSL  and  by 
arrangement  through  KSL  over  eleven 
radio  stations  in  Utah,  Idaho,  Arizona, 
Nevada,  Colorado,  and  Wyoming,  the 
names  of  which  stations  have  just  been 
aimounced  to  the  radio  audience.  We 
desire  to  express  our  appreciation  now 


as  we  have  heretofore,  to  these  stations 
for  their  courtesy  in  making  available 
their  time  and  facilities  for  these  broad- 
casts. 

The  singing  for  this  afternoon's  ses- 
sion will  be  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  with  Craw- 
ford Gates  conducting,  and  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Combined  Choruses  singing,  "Come, 
Come,  Ye  Saints,"  arranged  by  Elder 
Crawford  Gates,  and  conducted  by  Elder 
Gates. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  Waldo  M.  Andersen,  formerly 
President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission. 


The  Chorus  sang  the  hymn,  "Come, 
Come,  Ye  Saints,"  (arranged  by  Craw- 
ford Gates). 

Elder  Waldo  M.  Andersen,  formerly 
president  of  the  Northern  States  Mis- 
sion, offered  the  invocation. 

Singing  by  the  Chorus,  "How  Blest 
Are  They." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  first  speaker  this  afternoon  is 
Elder  Richard  L.  Evans,  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve.  He  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


HERE  are  always  overwhelming 


feelings  on  these  occasions. 
Two  of  those  that  rise  to  the 
top  at  this  time  are  inade- 
quacy, and  gratitude  for  fel- 
lowship with  you  and  for 
any  part  in  the  Church. 


I  recall  reading  a  statement  that  Presi- 
dent McKay  is  reported  to  have  made, 
as  he  alighted  at  the  airport  of  one  of 
the  large  South  American  cities  on  his 
recent  tour:  that  "there  are  three  beauti- 
ful things  in  the  world — love  and 
friendship  and  brotherhood."  They  ar€ 


84 

Monday^  April  5 

all  in  evidence  here  and  help  to  feed 
and  sustain  us  and  to  send  us  away  en- 
couraged and  enriched. 

I  am  mindful  of  the  glorious  princi- 
ples that  have  been  enunciated  here, 
which,  with  others,  make  this  a  most 
satisfying  gospel  to  feed  the  human  soul. 
Some  of  these  are:  faith,  repentance,  the 
assurance  of  forgiveness  with  proper  re- 
pentance; the  eternal  continuance  of 
personality,  of  individual  identity;  the 
assurance  that  we  may  have  everlasting 
association  with  those  we  love;  testi- 
mony; the  knowledge  that  no  man 
stands  between  us  and  our  God;  the 
assurance  of  eternal  plan  and  purpose; 
continuous  revelation;  free  agency;  and 
the  fact  that  this  is  an  inclusive  mes- 
sage and  opportunity  and  gospel  and 
Church,  and  not  an  exclusive  one — 
that  its  blessings  are  to  all  men  who  are 
willing  to  partake  of  them,  and  are  not 
reserved  to  a  special  few  predestined  by 
our  Father  in  heaven  to  have  the  bless- 
ings and  benefits.  It  is  his  purpose  to 
save  all  his  children  and  to  exalt  all 
his  children,  not  merely  to  warn  and 
turn  them  away,  but  to  labor  with  them 
in  love  and  in  patience,  and  to  bring 
them  back  into  his  presence,  if  they 
will. 

A  great  man  has  been  in  our  midst 
here  for  a  few  days,  one  of  the  notable 
men  of  medicine,  Sir  Alexander  Flem- 
ing, whom  we  have  had  the  pleastire 
in  this  community  of  meeting  and  hear- 
ing on  one  or  two  occasions.  He  told  the 
story  of  how,  in  working  in  a  laboratory 
in  a  London  hospital  back  in  1928,  he 
observed  the  action  of  an  accidental 
mold  that  had  drifted  into  his  laboratory 
from  some  source  and  which  had  an 
arresting  effect  on  some  germ  colonies 
that  were  in  the  culture  in  one  of  his 
petri  dishes.  His  statement,  as  he  re- 
corded it  in  his  diary,  was  this;  "I  was 
sufficiently  interested  to  ptirsue  the  sub- 
ject. The  appearance  of  the  culttire 
plant  was  such  that  I  thought  it  should 
not  be  neglected."  Thus,  penicillin 
was  discovered  and  put  to  immeasurable 
human  benefit. 

"I  was  sufficiently  interested  to  pursue 
the  subject."  Well,  with  a  mold  so  com- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

mon,  so  accessible,  one  wonders  why 
someone  did  not  see  it  sooner,  why 
someone  did  not  "pursue  the  subject" 
sooner.  That  the  world  should  go  so 
long  without  such  a  discovery  from 
such  a  common  and  available  source 
would  seem  to  be  but  a  further  indica- 
tion that  there  is  ever  before  us  an  in- 
finity of  undiscovered  things  and  that 
opportunities  are  limitless,  and  that 
"revelation"  of  this  kind  is  continuous, 
as  is  direct  revelation  from  our  Father 
in  heaven. 

The  songs  of  birds  that  are  all  around 
us,  we  often  do  not  hear.  Two  enter- 
prising scientists  not  long  ago  made 
some  "visual  recordings"  of  bird  songs 
with  an  audio-spectrograph,  so  that  the 
hiunan  eye  could  "see"  the  music  that 
the  birds  were  making,  but  the  human 
ear  could  not  hear  it  as  it  reached 
above  the  range  of  "normal"  human 
hearing. 

Who  knows  what  unseen  and  unheard 
things  may  be  all  around  us?  There 
are  limitless  possibilities;  there  is  in- 
finity before  us,  and  revelation  must  be 
continuous. 

Sometimes  we  wonder  why  others 
carmot  see  some  of  the  things  that  we 
see.  Sometimes  we  wonder  why  we 
cannot  see  some  of  the  things  that  they 
see.  There  may  be  many  reasons  for 
this.  We  differ  in  our  experience;  we 
differ  in  our  perception;  we  differ  in  our 
preoccupation.  Some  of  us  have  our 
thoughts  fixed  on  one  thing  at  one  time, 
and  some  on  another.  But  there  are 
great  things  to  be  discovered  if  we  will 
have  ears  to  hear  and  eyes  to  see  and 
be  sufficiently  interested  "to  pursue  the 
subject"  as  was  this  great  man  of 
medicine. 

There  may  be  things  that  some  of  us 
do  not  see — as  Peter  and  Paul,  seeming- 
ly did  not  always  see  the  same  things — 
but  they  both  loved  the  gospel;  they 
both  lived  for  it,  and  both  were  willing 
to  die  for  it.  There  are  some  great 
fimdamentals  and  requirements  and 
commandments  on  which  there  can  be 
no  doubt  and  no  differences,  of  which 
the  Lord  has  spoken  definitely.  Beyond 
this,  some,  sudi  as  Sir  Alexander  Flem- 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


85 


ing,  see  some  things  that  some  of  us 
do  not  see. 

As  to  free  agency:  mercifully  and 
wonderfully  that  was  settled  in  the 
heavens  a  long  time  ago  when  Lucifer 
challenged  it.  It  is  one  of  the  great 
and  glorious  principles  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

I  recall  a  comment  reported  to  have 
been  made  by  President  Clark  to  a  grad- 
uating class  last  spring,  in  which  he  said, 
in  substance,  that  Lucifer  must  have 
thought  that  God  was  very  "old- 
fashioned."  Lucifer  was  proposing  some 
very  different  ways  of  doing  some  things. 
It  seems  that  he  would  have  done  some 
things  in  a  much  more  "efficient"  man- 
ner, if  you  will  put  "efficiency"  in  quo- 
tations. He  would  have  delivered  all 
our  Father's  children  back  to  him — but 
in  a  strait  jacket! 

The  only  kind  of  "efficiency"  that  the 
Lord  God  is  interested  in  for  us  is  that 
kind  of  efficiency  which  contributes  to 
and  promotes  the  development  and 
growth  of  his  children  in  helping  them 
choose  for  themselves  the  great  things 
and  the  right  things,  the  right  way  of 
life — for  the  eternal  salvation  and  exal- 
tation of  their  souls.  And  I  would  say 
today,  keep  faith  in  freedom.  Avoid 
the  principle  of  compulsion. 

And  now  for  a  moment  or  two,  may 
I  yield  to  the  temptation  to  speak  an- 
other thought  or  two  to  these  young 
people  who  are  here  from  Brigham 
Young  University,  to  these  others  who 
are  here  in  this  congregation,  and  be- 
yond here,  to  all  who  will  hear  or  read, 
and  to  all  those  of  this  generation,  whom 
they  represent,  following  along  the  lines 
of  the  moving  and  impressive  instruc- 
tions of  Brother  Lee  and  Brother  Peter- 
sen this  morning: 

It  is  apparent  that  man  has  acquired 
the  power  to  destroy  the  works  of 
man.  The  instruments  of  destruction 
are  ever  more  fearful  with  each  passing 
day.  But  man  has  not  acquired  the 
power  to  destroy  the  works  or  the  plans 
or  the  purposes  of  God.  All  of  us  at 
times  have  pur  fears.  All  men  have 
their  fears,  their  uncertainties.  But 
may  I  say  to  you:  Go  ahead  and  live 


your  lives.  You  are  not  alone  in  life. 
The  Ltnrd  God  is  there  and  ever  ac- 
cessible to  you. 

This  is  no  time  for  panic.  Our  Father 
made  us  in  his  image.  He  sent  us  here. 
He  looked  out  at  what  he  had  made 
during  the  creation,  and  he  saw  that  it 
was  very  good.  It  was  good,  and  it  is 
still  good.  He  intends  happiness  for 
us,  and  it  is  not  only  our  privilege  but 
also  our  duty  to  be  happy,  and  we  shall 
be  if  we  have  the  courage  to  live  as  we 
ought  to  live  and  to  be  what  we  oxight 
to  be. 

Be  honest,  clean,  chaste,  humble. 
Keep  your  lives  well-balanced.  Always 
reserve  some  of  your  time  and  means  to 
the  things  of  the  spirit  and  to  the  serv- 
ice of  your  Father  in  heaven  as  well  as 
to  the  things  of  the  mind  and  the  things 
of  physical  sustenance.  Work,  study, 
and  pray.  Keep  an  open  mind  to  truth; 
keep  the  faith;  live  so  as  to  have  a  quiet 
conscience.  The  rewarding  way  of  life 
is  to  keep  the  commandments.  The 
hard  way  of  life  is  to 'live  contrary  to 
conscience  and  contrary  to  the  com- 
mandments. 

We  are  in  this  world,  and  I  do  not 
know  anything  to  do  about  it  except  to 
make  the  most  of  it,  to  live  good  and 
useful  and  purposeful  lives,  and  to  find 
joy  in  the  opportunity  that  the  Lord 
God  has  given  us  until  the  time  comes 
to  leave  this  life,  which  will  be  swiftly 
and  soon  enough.  There  is  no  running 
away  from  life,  no  running  away  from 
ourselves.  We  can  run  away  from 
where  we  are,  but  not  from  what  we  are 
or  from  who  we  are;  and  all  we  have 
to  do  is  to  live  a  day  at  a  time  to  the 
best  of  our  ability.  The  weight  of  the 
future  is  not  on  us  except  as  it  comes 
moment  by  moment. 

In  the  words  of  Thomas  Carlyle,  "The 
crash  of  the  whole  solar  and  stellar 
systems  could  only  kill  you  once."  There 
is  no  point  in  living  in  fear,  in  panic, 
or  in  apprehension.  Endure  to  the  end, 
keep  faithful,  for  he  who  made  us  and 
gave  us  life  and  who  keeps  creation  in 
its  course  will  not  forsake  us.  And 
though  we  have  acquired  the  instru- 
ments for  destroying  the  works  of  man, 


86 

Monday,  April  5 

if  we  should  be  so  foolish  as  to  set  them 
loose,  yet  the  power  and  the  purposes 
of  God  as  concerning  us  and  all  his 
creations  are  constant  and  ever  surround 
us  with  their  protection  and  their 
peace,  if  we  will  be  partakers  of  these 
things. 

God  lives.  He  has  eternal  plans  and 
purposes  for  his  children.  Jesus  is  the 
Christ.  The  gospel  has  been  restored, 
and  despite  all  the  answers  we  do  not 
know  and  all  the  areas  where  there 
may  be  differences  of  opinion,  we  know 
all  we  need  to  know  for  our  everlasting 
salvation  and  exaltation  and  happiness 
— if  we  will  use  what  the  Lord  God  has 
given  us.  Truth  will  triumph;  justice 
will  be  done;  and  there  will  be  no 
good  thing  lost  in  the  life  of  him  who 
will  live  as  best  he  knows  how  to  live 
and  will  partake  of  these  things  which 
our  Father  has  prepared  for  us. 

May  I  close  with  the  testimony  of  a 
beloved  friend,  who  is  not  with  us,  Dr. 
John  A.  Widtsoe.  In  one  of  the  closing 
sentences  of  his  book,  In  a  Sunlit  Land, 
in  which  he  looked  back  on  his  life  as 
a  scientist,  as  a  convert,  as  an  educator, 
as  an  Apostle,  and  as  a  great  and  hum- 
ble servant  of  men  and  of  God,  as  a  man 
who  had  seen  much  of  life  from  many 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

sides  and  who  had  come  forth  from  it 
all  with  a  sweet  and  simple  faith — on 
the  last  pages  of  this  book  he  wrote  these 
words  which  he  left  for  the  record  of 
posterity: 

During  this  long  life,  I  have  had  occasion 
to  test,  time  and  time  again,  the  verity  of 
the  foundations  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  answer 
has  always  been  the  same:  Joseph  Smith 
told  the  truth.  (7n  a  Sunlit  Land,  pp.  243- 
244.) 

I  leave  this  with  you  as  a  witness  of 
my  soul  this  day,  to  you  a  choice  and 
blessed  generation  of  youth.  God  bless 
you  and  be  with  you;  go  forth  and  live 
your  lives;  rely  on  him;  keep  sweet  and 
humble,  and  his  blessings  and  guidance 
will  be  with  you.  May  he  bless  you  in 
all  your  decisions,  I  pray,  in  Jesus' 
name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Richard  L.  Evans.  Elder 
Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to  the 
Church,  will  now  speak  to  us,  and  he 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  Bruce 
McConkie. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


j  WISH  to  express  my  gratitude 
!  for  the  prayer  that  was  offered 
at  the  opening  of  this  session, 
and  I  pray  that  I  shall  receive 
my  share  of  the  answer  to 
that  prayer. 
Truly,  these  are  great  gatherings, 
gatherings  of  a  faithful  people,  seeking 
spiritual  food  to  buoy  us  up  and  give 
us  courage  and  strength  to  carry  us  along 
the  way  a  little  farther. 

In  my  mind  I  see  a  parallel  in  these 
gatherings  to  the  young  man  who  asked 
the  Savior, 

Good  Master,  what  good  thing  shall  I  do, 
that  I  may  have  eternal  life? 
And  he  said  unto  him.  Why  callest  thou 


me  good?  there  is  none  good  but  one,  that 
is,  God:  but  if  thou  wilt  enter  Into  life, 
keep  the  commandments. 
He  saith  unto  him.  Which? 

Jesus  enumerated  a  number  of  things 

to  do  and  he  answered. 

All  these  things  have  I  kept  from  my 
youth  up:  what  lack  I  yet? 

Jesus  said  unto  him.  If  thou  wilt  be  per- 
fect, go  and  sell  that  thou  hast,  and  give 
to  the  poor,  and  thou  shalt  have  treasures  in 
heaven:  and  come  and  follow  me. 

But  when  the  young  man  heard  that 
saying,  he  went  away  sorrowful:  for  he 
had  great  possessions.  (Matt.  19:16-18, 
20-22.) 

Nevertheless  the  young  man  had  been 
keeping  the  commandments.   We  who 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


87 


are  members  of  the  Church  are  also 
the  more  righteous  who  are  trying  to 
keep  the  commandments. 

The  young  man  went  away  sorrowful. 
I  wonder  how  many  of  us  do  a  similar 
thing  when  we  leave  these  conference 
sessions.  President  Smith  called  our 
attention  to  the  fact  that  the  Lord  is 
pleased  with  tljie  Church  collectively  but 
not  individually. 

The  instructions  from  the  Lord  and 
from  the  prophets  of  all  times  comes 
down  to  us:  "Say  nothing  but  repentance 
unto  this  generation."  (D.  &  C.  6:9.) 

And  such  counsel  is  found  in  most  of 
the  addresses  given  at  these  conferences, 
and  when  we,  who  are  trying  to  keep 
his  commandments,  are  taught  repent- 
ance, do  we  accept  it  as  only  something 
for  the  other  person — ^the  sinner — or  as 
something  done  once  as  a  prerequisite  to 
baptism  and  then  not  needed  any  more? 

After  a  spiritual  feast  such  as  we  have 
in  these  sessions,  it  is  natural  to  want 
to  share  with  others  what  we  have  re- 
ceived, and  surely  we  should  do  so. 
But  do  we  accept  the  instructions  tor 
ourselves  and  put  them  into  practice, 
each  for  his  own  benefit  first? 

As  long  as  we  are  not  perfect,  we 
are  in  need  of  repentance,  for  all  im- 
provement comes  as  a  result  of  repent- 
ance. Each  should  take  daily  inventory 
of  himself  and  try  to  do  better  each 
day.   Repentance  is  a  daily  affair. 

Do  we  have  pride  to  overcome?  The 
Lord  says,  "Be  thou  humble;  and  the 
Lord  thy  God  shall  lead  thee  by  the 
hand."  (Ibid.,  112:10.) 

One  of  the  greatest  pitfalls  that  we 
must  watch  is  the  pride  of  self- 
righteousness.  Are  we  ever  guilty — 
when  we  devote  so  much  of  our  time 
and  our  efforts  to  activities  in  the 
Chvirch — of  being  lifted  up  in  the  pride 
of  our  own  importance? 

There  was  a  discussion  recently  be- 
tween a  member  of  a  stake  board  and  a 
ward  officer  over  a  roadshow  that  had 
just  been  presented.  The  stake  officer 
was  highly  indignant  because  the 
daughter  of  the  ward  leader  had  a 
spemdng  part  while  her  own  daughter 
was  only  in  the  chorus. 


Are  we  always  wholeheartedly  glad 
when  others  succeed,  or  is  our  praise 
lacking  in  sincerity— given  grudgingly, 
or  not  at  all? 

Are  you  so  self-righteous  that  you 
have  neighbors  on  all  sides  of  you 
who  do  not  attend  Church  or  are  not 
members  of  the  Church  and  you  do 
nothing  to  assist  them? 

Another  common  fault  for  which 
many  of  us  may  have  cause  for  re- 
pentance is  repeating  a  bit  of  gossip 
we  have  heard.  Whether  it  be  true 
or  not  is  beside  the  point.  If  it  is  not 
kind,  it  does  not  bear  repeating. 

Are  you  willing  to  forgive?  Remem- 
ber, in  the  Lord's  prayer,  Christ  prayed, 
"Forgive  our  trespasses  as  we  forgive 
those  who  trespass  against  us." 

Do  you  refrain  from  passing  judgment, 
or  do  you  condemn  others  for  the  faults 
you  see  in  them? 

Understand,  I  am  not  condemning 
anyone.  I  just  say,  "If  the  shoe  fits, 
wear  it." 

We  become  so  involved  in  our  various 
Church  activities  that  sometimes  we 
think  we  have  "arrived,"  as  it  were — 
that  we  have  no  need  for  repentance. 
Leave  that  to  the  poor  sinner. 

Carlyle  uttered  a  great  truth  when 
he  said,  "Of  all  acts,  is  not  repentance 
most  divine?  The  greatest  of  faults 
is  to  be  conscious  of  none." 

There  are  those  also  who  are  con- 
scious of  their  mistakes,  yet  they  do  not 
try  to  change  their  habits. 

The  film  we  saw  at  the  priesthood 
meeting  the  other  night  was  a  good 
example  which  shows  that  there  are 
many  of  these  people. 

I  have  heard  some  say  that  they  have 
been  told  that  because  of  their  past  acts 
they  cannot  receive  the  blessings  of 
exaltation  anyway,  even  if  they  went  to 
the  temple,  so  why  try? 

They  liken  themselves  to  the  prodigal 
son  who  returned  only  to  be  a  servant 
If  one  procrastinates  the  day  of  re- 
pentance until  the  day  of  his  return 
to  the  Father,  surely  he  caimot  expect 
anything  other  than  to  become  a  serv- 
ant 


88 

Monday,  April  5 

However,  had  the  prodigal  son  re- 
pented earlier  and  regained  his  wealth 
and  his  birthright,  he  could  then  have 
returned  to  the  father  without  being  a 
servant.  Likewise,  if  a  man  repents 
and  restores  his  rights  to  the  blessings, 
surely  he  shall  receive  all  he  has  earned. 
"Repentance  becomes  more  difficult  as 
the  sin  is  more  willful;  ...  as  the  time 
of  repentance  is  procrastinated,  the 
ability  to  repent  grows,  weaker."  (James 
E.  Talmage.) 

Alma  tells  us. 

Behold,  he  sendeth  an  invitation  unto  all 
men,  for  the  arms  of  mercy  are  ejrtended 
towards  them,  and  he  saith:  Repent,  and  I 
will  receive  you.  (Alma  5:33.) 

He  says,  "All  men";  not  just  a  few 
who  are  selected,  but  he  says,  "Repent, 
and  I  will  receive  you." 

If  you  just  stop  and  think  of  it,  how 
wonderful  the  mercy  of  the  Lord  is. 
All  manner  of  sin,  except  murder  and 
blasphemy,  can  be  forgiven  through  re- 
pentance. If  we  will  try  to  do  his  will, 
his  arm  of  mercy  is  outstretched  toward 
us. 

Not  one  of  us  is  perfect  now,  but  we 
are  here  to  attain  perfection.  "Be  ye 
therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  Father 
which  is  in  heaven  is  perfect."  (Matt. 
5:48.)  So  as  we  overcome  our  weak- 
nesses, and  our  sins,  we  grow  and  draw 
nearer  our  aim  of  perfection. 

Let  us  not  be  so  self-righteous  that  we 
think  that  we  have  no  need  for  re- 
pentance, for  the  Savior  himself  preached 
repentance  to  the  more  righteous  who 
were  spared  from  the  great  destruction 
at  the  time  of  his  crucifixion.  At  that 
time,  on  this  hemisphere  there  was 
darkness  for  three  days  and  great  de- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

struction;  many  cities  and  all  their  in- 
habitants were  destroyed.  Then  the 
voice  of  the  Lord  was  heard  declaring 
that  the  more  wicked  had  been  de- 
stroyed, and  the  more  righteous  had 
been  saved.  To  the  righteous  that 
were  spared  he  declared  as  he  might 
well  say  to  us  here  today: 

O  ye  house  of  Israel  whom  I  have  spared, 
how  oft  will  I  gather  you  as  a  hen  gathereth 
her  chickens  under  her  wings,  if  ye  will 
repent  and  return  unto  me  with  full  pur- 
pose of  heart.  (3  Nephi  10:6.) 

Then  a  warning — 

But  if  not,  O  house  of  Israel,  the  places 
of  your  dwellings  shall  become  desolate  until 
the  time  of  the  fulfilling  of  the  covenant 
to  your  fathers.  (Ibid.,  10:7.) 

Yea,  verily  I  say  imto  you.  If  ye  will 
come  unto  me  ye  shall  have  eternal  life. 
Behold,  mine  arm  of  mercy  is  extended 
towards  you,  and  whosoever  will  come, 
him  will  I  receive;  and  blessed  are  those 
who  come  unto  me.  (Ibid.,  9:14.) 

And  ye  shall  offer  for  a  sacrifice  unto  me 
a  broken  heart  and  a  contrite  spirit  And 
whoso  Cometh  imto  me  with  a  broken  heart 
and  a  contrite  spirit,  him  will  I  baptize  with 
the  Holy  Ghost.  .  .  . 

Behold,  I  have  come  unto  the  world  to 
bring  redemption  unto  the  world,  to  save 
the  world  from  sin. 

Therefore,  whoso  repenteth  and  cometh 
unto  me  as  a  little  child,  him  will  I  re- 
ceive, for  of  such  is  the  kingdom  of  God. 
Bdiold,  for  such  I  have  laid  down  my  life, 
and  have  taken  it  up  again;  therefore  re- 
pent, and  come  imto  me  ye  ends  of  the 
earth,  and  be  saved.  (Ibid.,  9:20-22.) 

May  the  Lord's  blessings  be  upon  us, 
I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


|AY  I  INVITE  your  attention 
to  a  comparison  between 
the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ,  as  it  was  organ- 
ized and  perfected  in  New 
Testament  times,  and  the 
self-styled  Christian  churches  that  exist 


in  the  world  today?  In  order  to  do  so  I 
shall  take  the  liberty  of  raising  a  num- 
ber of  queries,  and  shall  assume  that 
each  of  us  has  a  sufficient  working 
knowledge  of  the  New  Testament  to 
recognize  the  basis  upon  which  each 
query  rests. 


ELDER  BRUCE 

Where  in  the  world  today  will  we 
find  a  church  that  has  as  its  official 
title  some  combination  of  the  names  of 
Christ,  according  to  the  New  Testament 
pattern? 

Where  is  there  a  church  whose  min- 
isters claim  divine  authority  in  the  real, 
complete,  and  actual  sense  that  it  was 
claimed  by  the  ministers  among  the 
primitive  Saints? 

Where  is  there  a  church  which  claims 
the  Melchizedek  and  Aaronic  orders  of 
the  priesthood  as  these  were  had  an- 
ciently? 

Where  is  there  a  church  in  which 
we  will  find  the  ordinances  practised 
that  were  practised  among  the  primitive 

Saints? 

Where  do  we  find  baptism  by  immer- 
sion for  the  remission  of  sins  per- 
formed under  the  hands  of  a  legal 
administrator? 

Where  do  we  find  a  people  who  lay 
hands  on  the  head  of  every  baptized 
convert  for  the  present  bestowal  of  the 
Holy  Ghost;  or  who,  when  there  are 
sick  among  them,  call  in  the  elders  of 
the  church,  that  they  may  anoint  them 
with  oil  and  pray  over  them,  that  the 
prayer  of  faith  may  heal  the  sick  and 
God  may  raise  them  up? 

Where  is  there  a  people  that  has  the 
New  Testament  ordinance  of  baptism 
for  the  dead? 

Where  is  there  a  church  that  has  the 
same  organization  that  existed  among 
the  primitive  Saints,  that  has  Apostles 
and  prophets,  pastors,  evangelists,  and 
all  the  rest? 

Where  is  there  a  people  that  be- 
lieves that  there  should  be  Twelve 
Apostles  holding  the  keys  of  the  king- 
dom, presiding  over  and  directing  all 
of  the  affairs  of  the  Church  and  king- 
dom, and  that  such  group  should  con- 
tinue until  there  is  a  tmity  of  the  faith? 

Where  is  there  a  church  that  believes 
that  God  has  set  some  in  the  Chiu'ch, 
first  Apostles,  secondarily  prophets, 
thirdly  teachers;  after  that  miracles; 
then  gifts  of  the  spirit,  healings,  tongues, 
helps,  and  governments? 

Where  is  there  a  church  that  pro- 
fesses to  have  all  of  the  doctrines  that 


R.  McCONKIE  89 

were  taught  in  New  Testament  times; 
that  believes  that  God  our  heavenly 
Father  is  a  personal  being,  in  whose 
image  man  is  created;  that  has  an  un- 
derstanding that  Jesus  Christ  is  his 
Only  Begotten  Son  and  is  a  Being  in 
the  express  image  of  the  person  of  the 
Father? 

Where  is  there  a  people  that  has  a 
real,  intelligent,  and  scriptural  under- 
standing of  the  atoning  sacrifice  of 
Jesus  Christ,  that  knows  that  because 
of  that  transcendent  act  all  men  will 
be  raised  in  immortality  and  those  who 
have  believed  and  obeyed  the  gospel 
law,  both  in  immortality  and  xmto 
eternal  life? 

Where  is  there  a  people  that  knows 
that  the  plan  of  salvation,  based  on  the 
atoning  sacrifice  of  Christ,  consists  in 
having  faith  in  Christ,  in  repenting  of 
one's  sins,  in  being  baptized  under  the 
hands  of  a  legal  administrator,  in  re- 
ceiving the  gift  and  guidance  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  and  then  in  enduring  in 
righteousness  unto  the  end? 

Where  is  there  a  church  that  believes 
that  the  gospel  is  preached  to  those  in 
the  spirit  world,  that  they  may  live  ac- 
cording to  God  in  the  spirit,  and  be 
judged  according  to  men  in  the  flesh? 

Where  is  there  a  people  that  believes 
in  the  literal  resurrection  from  the  grave, 
in  the  fact  that  all  men  will  stand  be- 
fore the  judgment  bar  of  Christ,  and 
having  been  judged  according  to  the 
deeds  done  in  the  flesh,  will  be  awarded 
a  place  in  a  kingdom  of  glory,  in  either 
a  telestial,  a  terrestrial,  or  a  celestial 
kingdom? 

Where  is  there  a  people  that  believes 
that  between  the  first  and  second  com- 
ings of  Christ,  there  was  to  be  a  com- 
plete, total,  universal  falling  away  from 
the  faith  once  delivered  to  the  Saints? 

Where  is  there  a  people  that  believes 
that  in  the  last  days  there  was  to  be 
an  era  of  restoration,  a  time  of  restitu- 
tion, in  which  God  would  give  again 
all  things  that  he  had  spoken  by  the 
mouths  of  all  his  holy  prophets  since 
the  world  began? 

Where  is  there  a  people  that  believes 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  S 

that  this  restoration  of  the  gospel  was  to 
be  effected  by  angelic  ministration,  and 
that  the  gospel  so  restored  was  then  to 
be  carried  to  all  the  peoples  of  the  earth? 

Where  is  there  a  people  that  believes 
that  in  a  day  subsequent  to  New  Testa- 
ment times,  the  kingdom  was  to  be 
restored  to  Israel  and  the  scattered  rem- 
nants of  that  people  gathered  back  to 
the  lands  of  their  inheritance? 

Where  is  there  a  people  that  actually 
believes  that  signs  will  follow  those 
who  accept  and  obey  the  gospel  law, 
that  professes  to  have  among  the  mem- 
bership of  the  chxirch  the  working  of 
miracles,  the  ministering  of  angels,  the 
gifts  of  the  Spirit,  and  all  of  the  powers 
and  graces  that  were  had  anciently? 

Now  we  might  multiply  questions  on 
all  of  these  matters,  but  I  submit  to  you 
that  every  essential,  identifying  char- 
acteristic of  the  New  Testament  Church 
can,  with  intelligence  and  propriety,  be 
outlined  under  one  of  these  six  heads: 
name,  authority,  ordinances,  organiza- 
tion, doctrines,  and  gifts  of  the  Spirit. 
And  I  submit  to  you  further  that  there 
is  only  one  Church  in  all  the  world 
that  so  much  as  claims  to  have  every 
essential  identifying  characteristic  of  the 
Church  organized  and  perfected  by 
Christ  and  his  Apostles  anciently,  and 


Third  Dob 

that  one  Church  is  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Now,  may  I  say  by  way  both  of  testi- 
mony and  of  doctrine,  that  you  and  I 
are  living  in  the  era  of  restoration.  We 
are  living  in  the  times  of  restitution. 
The  heavens  are  no  longer  sealed.  The 
voice  of  God  is  heard  again.  The  king- 
dom is  established  on  earth,  and  that 
kingdom  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  it  has  again 
every  grace  and  right,  power,  privilege, 
and  authority  that  the  Almighty  ever 
gave  to  the  Saints  in  primitive  times. 

And  now  we  are  nearing  the  end  of 
the  world.  The  time  is  not  far  distant 
when  the  kingdoms  of  this  world  will 
become  the  kingdoms  of  our  God  and  of 
his  Christ,  and  if  you  and  I  live  worthily 
and  walk  as  most  of  us  already  know  we 
should,  we  will  be  entitled  to  receive 
an  eternal  inheritance  in  his  eternal 
world. 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 
President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy,  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  We  shall  now  hear  from 
Elder  ElRay  L.  Christiansen,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  and  he  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Clifford  E.  Young. 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


HAVE  always  enjoyed  listening 


)  that  beautiful  little  song, 
■^"The  Prayer  Perfect,"  and  I 
J  am  thinking  just  now  of  the 
last  few  words  in  that  song: 

And  with  all  tlie  needy,  O  divide,  I 
pray. 

This  vast  treasure  or  content  that  is  mine 
today. 

As  we  sit  here,  brothers  and  sisters, 
we  are  blessed  with  vast  treasures  of 
content,  knowing  full  well  and  having 
the  assurance  that  God  lives,  and  that 
this  is  his  Church  and  kingdom;  know- 


ing that  if  we  will  keep  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord,  that  we  may  go  back 
into  his  presence;  that  we  may  reach 
out  and  bring  our  loved  ones  and  our 
friends  this  same  blessing.  This  brings 
a  great  measure  of  contentment.  But 
we  must  not  rest  contented,  for  the 
Lord  has  placed  upon  our  shoulders 
the  responsibility,  not  only  of  perfect- 
ing otir  own  lives,  but  also  of  teaching 
to  all  the  world  this  gospel.  That  has 
been  emphasized  in  this  conference.  In 
addition  to  that,  he  has  given  us  the 
responsibility  of  identifying  our  dead 
kjndredi  of  placing  their  names  in  the 


ELDER  ELRAY  L. 

temples  and  there  receiving  ordinances 
as  proxies  for  them. 

There  are  those,  even  among  us,  who 
belittle  and  minimize  this  part  of  the 
gospel  plan.  There  are  many  in  the 
world  who  believe  it  not  at  all,  yet 
it  is  true,  and  it  is  indispensable  to  the 
welfare  and  the  salvation,  both  of  the 
living  and  of  the  dead  I  Since  God  is 
just,  his  divine  plan  of  salvation  in- 
cludes the  means  and  the  power  by 
which  those  who  have  died  without  a 
knowledge  of  the  gospel  may  hear  it 
and,  if  they  will,  may  accept  it  and 
receive  that  which  has  already  been 
mentioned  in  this  conference;  namely, 
the  great  gift  of  immortality  and  eternal 
life. 

For  for  this  cause  was  the  gospel  preached 
also  to  them  that  are  dead,  that  they  might 
be  judged  according  to  men  in  the  flesh, 
but  live  according  to  God  in  the  spirit. 
(I  Peter  4:6.) 

Inasmuch  as  God  is  a  just  God,  the 
same  principles,  the  same  ordinances, 
the  same  conditions  that  apply  to  the 
salvation  of  the  living  apply  also  to  the 
salvation  of  the  dead— even  that  of 
baptism,  which  we  know  is  indispen- 
sable for  our  membership  in  the  Church 
and  kingdom  of  God.  The  Lord  has 
said, 

Except  a  man  be  born  of  water  and  of 
the  Spirit,  he  cannot  enter  into  the  Idng- 
dom  of  God.  (John  3:5.) 

That  means  he  must  be  baptized  and 
receive  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Now,  when  the  Savior  said  that,  he 
made  no  exceptions.  There  was  no 
distinction  between  the  living  and  the 
dead.  All  were  included;  all  must  meet 
this  prerequisite  for  membership  and 
citizenship  in  that  kingdom. 

Wilford  Woodruff,  seventy-eight  years 
ago  tomorrow,  said  something  about 
this,  when  he  made  this  significant 
statement: 

God  is  no  respecter  of  persons;  he  will 
not  give  privileges  to  one  generation  and 
withhold  them  from  another;  and  the 
whole  htonan  family,  from  Father  Adam 
down  to  our  day,  have  got  to  have  the 
privilege^  scwiewnere,  of  hearing  the  gospel 


CHRISTIANSEN  91 

of  Christ;  .  .  .  They  have  to  be  preached 
to  in  the  spirit  world.    But  nobody  will 

baptize  them  there,  therefore  someone  must 
administer  to  them  by  proxy  here  in  the 
flesh,  that  they  may  be  judged  according 
to  man  in  the  flesh  and  have  part  in  the 
first  resurrection.  (Discourses  of  Wilford 
Woodruff,  p.  179.) 

And  then  a  few  years  later  this  great 
man  said  this:  "We  have  got  to  enter 
these  temples  and  redeem  our  dead.  .  .  . 
This  is  the  great  work  of  the  last  dis- 
pensation, the  redemption  of  the  living 
and  of  the  dead." 

Now,  this  is  a  tremendous  task, 
a  stupendous  assignment.  I  feel  sure, 
however,  that  as  we  work  with  the 
means  and  powers  that  we  have  and 
do  our  utmost  toward  this  great 
work  of  redeeming  the  dead,  that  the 
Lord  will,  as  he  has  done  in  the  imme- 
diate past,  provide  additional  ways 
and  means  and  improved  facilities  by 
which  this  work  can  be  better  ac- 
complished. 

It  is  for  a  good  reason  that  he  has 
placed  this  responsibility  upon  us.  It 
teaches  us  unselfishness.  It  teaches  us 
love  of  others.  It  teaches  us  to  be  Christ- 
like and  even  becrane,  in  reality,  saviors 
upon  Mount  Zion, 

Another  reason  that  he  has  placed 
it  upon  our  shoulders  is  to  provide 
through  us  the  necessary  ordinances  for 
those  who  have  passed  on.  My  brothers 
and  sisters,  we  carmot  escape  this  as- 
signment on  behalf  of  the  dead  I 

Now  in  order  that  the  righteous  dead 
may  receive  by  proper  authority  the 
ordinances  that  are  necessary  for  the 
blessings  of  immortality  and  eternal  life, 
the  Lord  long,  long  ago  promised  the 
world  that  he  would  send  from  his 
presence  one  who  possessed  the  authority 
and  the  keys  to  begin  anew  this  work 
upon  the  earth.  The  promise  was  made 
through  Malachi,  the  prophet,  when  he 
said. 

Behold,  I  will  send  you  Elijah  the 
prophet  before  the  coming  of  the  great  and 
dreadful  day  of  the  Lord: 

And  he  shall  turn  the  heart  of  the  fathers 
to  the  children,  and  the  heart  of  the  chil- 
dren' to  their  fathers,  lest  I  come  and 
smite  the  earth  with  a  curse.  (Mai.  4:5-6.) 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  S 

Now,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said 
that  this  word  turn  should  be  under- 
stood to  mean  bind  or  seal  the  hearts 
of  the  children  to  their  fathers,  and  vice 
versa.  I  like  the  words  of  Moroni  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  in  regard  to  this. 
Said  Moroni: 

Behold,  I  will  reveal  unto  you  the  Priest- 
hood, by  the  hand  of  Elijah  the  prophet, 
before  the  coming  of  the  great  and  dread- 
ful day  of  the  Lord. 

And  he  shall  plant  in  the  hearts  of  the 
children  the  promises  made  to  the  fathers, 
and  the  hearts  of  the  children  shall  turn 
to  their  fathers — 

as  they  have  done  in  a  most  marvelous 
way. 

If  it  were  not  so,  the  whole  earth  would 
be  utterly  wasted  at  his  coming.  (D.  &  C. 
2:1-3.) 

The  literal  fulfilment  of  this  promise 
has  been  made  in  our  day!  If  we  turn 
to  the  110th  section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  we  will  find  that  the 
Prophet  Malachi's  prediction  has  been 
literally  fulfilled:  that  Elijah  has  come. 
On  April  3,  1836,  when  Joseph  and 
Oliver  were  in  the  Kirtland  Temple, 
after  certain  ceremonies,  including  the 
sacrament,  had  been  taken  care  of,  they 
retired  to  the  pulpit;  and  the  veils  being 
dropped,  they  bowed  their  heads  in 
solemn  and  silent  prayer,  and  then  they 
declared  that  after  arising  from  this 
prayer,  that 

The  veil  was  taken  from  our  minds,  and 
the  eyes  of  our  understanding  were  opened. 

We  saw  the  Lord  standing  upon  the 
breastwork  of  the  pulpit,  before  us;  and 
under  his  feet  was  a  paved  work  of  pure 
gold,  in  color  like  amber. 

His  eyes  were  as  a  flame  of  fire;  the  hair 
of  his  head  was  white  like  the  pure  snow; 
his  countenance  shone  above  the  brightness 
of  the  sun;  and  his  voice  was  as  the  sound 
of  the  rushing  of  great  waters,  even  the 
voice  of  Jehovah.  .  .  .  {Ibid.,  110:1-3.) 

The  Lord  told  them  that  their  sins 
were  forgiven;  that  he  had  accepted 
that  house,  the  temple  in  Kirtland,  as 
the  work  of  their  hands;  that  it  should 
be  only  the  begiiming  of  such  things, 
and  that 


Third  Day 

.  .  .  the  hearts  of  thousands  and  tens  of 
thousands  shall  greatly  rejoice  in  conse- 
quence of  the  blessings  which  shall  be 
poured  out,  and  the  endowment  with  which 
my  servants  have  been  endowed  in  this 
house. 

And  the  fame  of  this  house  shall  spread 
to  foreign  lands;  .  .  .  (ibid.,  9-10) 

and  the  Savior  told  them  this  was  only 
the  beginning  of  the  blessings  which 
shall  be  poiu'ed  upon  the  heads  of  the 
people  all  over  the  world. 

We  have  seen,  in  part,  the  fulfilment 
of  that. 

After  this  vision  closed,  Moses  ap- 
peared to  them  and  committed  to  them 
the  keys  of  the  gathering  of  Israel  from 
the  four  parts  of  the  earth.  This  was 
followed  by  the  visitation  of  Elias  who 
committed  the  gospel  of  Abraham,  then 
they  declared  that: 

After  this  vision  had  closed,  another  great 
and  glorious  vision  burst  upon  us;  for 
Elijah  the  prophet,  who  was  taken  to 
heaven  without  tasting  death,  stood  before 
us,  and  said: 

Behold,  the  time  has  fully  come,  which 
was  spoken  of  by  the  mouth  of  Malachi — 
testifying  that  he  [Elijah]  should  be  sent, 
before  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the 
Lord  come — 

To  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the 
children,  and  the  children  to  the  fathers, 
lest  the  whole  earth  be  smitten  with  a 
curse — 

"Therefore,"  (And  this  is  the  im- 
portant thing).  .  .  . 

Therefore,  the  keys  of  this  dispensation 
are  committed  into  your  hands;  and  by 
this  ye  may  know  that  the  great  and 
dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  is  near,  even  at 
the  doors.  {Ibid.,  13-16.) 

Thus,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  has 
the  fulfilment  of  Malachi's  prophecy 
come  to  pass  in  this  time  of  ours?  He 
has  come,  and  the  powers  that  were 
given  to  Joseph  have  been  extended  to 
others,  so  that  the  people  of  the  whole 
world  might,  if  they  will,  be  blessed, 
and  so  that  all  of  the  ordinances  of  the 
gospel  might  be  administered  to  in 
power  and  in  righteousness. 

Now,  I  know  that  men  say,  and  they 
have  said  to  me,  "We  do  not  believe 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 


93 


this."  But  the  disbelief  of  a  million 
men  does  not  change  the  fact!  The 
restoration  of  this  priesthood  will,  as  has 
been  predicted,  save  the  earth  from  being 
utterly  wasted  at  the  coming  of  the 
Lord,  otherwise  his  pxirposes  would  be 
thwarted;  and  we  are  told  he  has  said 
that  his  purposes  and  his  designs  will 
not  be  frustrated,  but  only  the  designs 
and  the  purposes  and  the  acts  of  men 
will  be  brought  to  naught. 

We  must  not  assume  that  the  mission 
of  Elijah  and  the  powers  that  were 
given  by  him  are  confined  only  to  the 
dead,  for  the  living  also  must  receive 
these  same  ordinances  and  have  them 
performed  if  they  would  have  exaltation 
and  eternal  life  in  the  celestial  kingdom 
of  heaven. 

How  wonderful  it  is  to  see  the  young 
people— all  people,  come  to  the  temples 
of  the  Lord  in  great  numbers  and 
receive  their  blessings.  How  fitting  it 
is  to  see  the  parents  and  the  grand- 
parents come  with  their  children.  This 
is  the  ideal  way,  for  if  we  are  going 
to  be  together  as  families  in  the  next 
life,  it  has  always  seemed  to  me  that 
we  should  get  some  practice  in  getting 
together  with  our  families  under  such 
circxmistances  in  this  life. 

The  obligation  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  is  three- fold: 

1.  To  prepare  themselves  to  go  to  the 
temple  and  receive  their  blessings  and 
to  teach  their  children  to  live  so  that 
they  may  be  worthy  and  have  a  desire 
to  go. 

2.  To  gather  the  records  of  our  dead 
and  place  them  in  the  temples. 

3.  To  go  to  the  house  or  the  Lord 


and  there  give  oiu-  services  occasionally 
to  those  who  have  passed  on  without  a 
knowledge  of  the  gospel. 

Only  by  so  doing  can  we  perfect 
ourselves  and  receive  the  fulness  of  joy 
here  and  hereafterl 

The  Prophet  Joseph  has  said  that  we 
should  not  procrastinate  in  this  work. 
I  know  that  many  are  active  in  it, 
many  are  anxiously  engaged  in  it,  but 
the  majority  of  us  are  unconcerned.  We 
must  not  leave  it  to  Aunt  Martha  or 
someone  else  to  identify  our  dead  and 
to  go  to  the  temples;  we  must  not  assume 
that  it  has  been  done;  it  is  our  indi- 
vidual obligation  to  do  this  work!  The 
Prophet  has  said  that  the  Saints  have 
not  too  much  time  to  save  and  redeem 
the  dead  and  to  gather  together  the 
living  relatives,  and  that  is  important, 
that  they  may  be  saved  also.  "They 
have  not  too  much  time,"  he  said,  "be- 
fore the  earth  will  be  smitten  and  the 
consumption  decreed  falls  upon  the 
world."  (See  Teachings  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  p.  330.)  So,  before  that 
day  comes,  while  the  day  lasts  and 
before  the  night  comes  when  no  mail 
can  work,  let  us  rejoice  in  this  great 
restoration  and  participate  in  it  to  our 
joy  and  to  our  satisfaction.  May  we 
do  this,  I  pray  humbly,  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  ElRay  L.  Christiansen  has  just 
spoken  to  us.  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 
Elder  Clifford  E.  Yoimg,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  will  now  address  us. 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Coundl  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  AST  Friday  the  General  Au- 
thorities met  with  the  mis- 
sion presidents  who  had 
been  serving  in  this  country 
and  in  Central  America.  It 
was  an  inspiring  meeting, 
and  they  who  were  there  expressed  their 
gratitude  and  appreciation  for  the  privi- 


lege of  coming  here  to  the  headquarters 
of  the  Church  and  meeting  with  their 
brethren  and  reporting  their  labors,  feel- 
ing the  spirit  of  testimony  as  expressed 
by  their  associates  and  by  all  who  were 
privileged  to  speak  in  the  meeting  which 
was  held  in  the  temple. 
Then  we  have  had  our  brethren  who 


94 

Uonday,  AprU  5 

have  offered  prayers  or  spoken,  express 
their  gratitude  for  the  privilege  of  being 
in  attendance  at  this  conference.  We, 
ourselves,  have  partaken  of  that  spirit, 
grateful  to  the  Almighty  that  we  are 
here,  that  we  can  sit  under  the  sound 
of  the  voice  of  the  prophets  of  God  and 
of  the  other  General  Authorities  as  they 
have  spoken  and  listen  to  their  coun- 
sel, and  partake  of  their  spirit.  We  are 
grateful  for  this  privilege  and  bless- 
ing. 

You  people  who  are  listening  in  and 
who  are  watching  on  television  are  also 
grateful.  Yesterday  this  latter  privi- 
lege was  extended  wider  than  ever 
before  in  the  history  of  the  Church, 
and  I  know  we  were  all  thrilled  as  we 
heard  President  McKay  tell  of  the  extent 
of  these  televised  and  broadcasted  serv- 
ices. 

But  this  raised  a  question  in  my 
mind,  as  did  our  meeting  with  the  mis- 
sion presidents.  I  thought  of  some  of 
our  mission  presidents  over  in  the  old 
country  who  are  working  faithfully,  who 
are  devoted  to  this  work,  giving  of  their 
time  and  their  means,  faithful  to  their 
trust,  and  yet  they  could  not  be  with 
us. 

I  thought  too,  of  the  thousands  of 
Saints,  in  the  islands  of  the  sea,  and 
in  the  old  country,  and  even  in  this 
coimtry,  who  cannot  partake  of  the 
spirit  of  these  services  because  they  are 
not  able  to  be  here  or  to  come  within 
the  radius  of  television  or  of  the  radio, 
and  yet  they  are  just  as  anxious  as  are 
we,  and  they  are  just  as  devoted  as  are 
we.  The  Lord  will  not  forget  them.  He 
will  in  his  own  way  bless  them  as  they 
learn  of  these  services;  as  they  read  the 
testimonies  of  these  meetings,  they  will 
partake  of  the  same  spirit,  perhaps  not 
so  potently  as  we;  but  the  Lord  will 
bless  them,  and  they  too  will  share  with 
us  because  he  will  not  leave  them 
alone. 

Brother  Christiansen  has  been  telling 
ing  us  of  our  obligations  to  those  who 
have  gone,  of  the  revelations  of  the 
Lord  that  the  hearts  of  the  children 
shall  be  turned  to  their  fathers,  and  the 
hearts  of  the  fathers  to  their  children. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

for  "were  it  not  so  the  whole  earth 
would  be  wasted  at  his  coming."  In 
listening  to  Brother  Christiansen  we 
have  been  impressed  with  the  magni- 
tude of  this  work,  and  we  have  beeii 
given  an  insight  into  the  mercies  of 
our  heavenly  Father. 

As  we  are  permitted  to  enjoy  the 
blessings  of  being  here  and  are  made 
aware  of  the  blessings  and  privileges 
that  come  and  will  come  to  us  through 
the  atonement,  we  cannot  help  being 
made  aware  of  and  be  concerned  with 
the  thousands  of  God's  children  who, 
through  no  fault  of  their  own,  are  not 
blessed  as  are  we. 

I  was  in  the  home  two  weeks  ago  of  one 
of  our  brethren  where  there  is  a  little 
girl  who  is  deficient,  a  little  child  who 
never  will  have  the  opportunity  in  this 
life  to  fulfil  the  purposes  of  the  Lord 
for  which  she  was  placed  here,  unless 
God  shall  intervene  with  a  miracle  and 
heal  her  little  body  and  her  mind.  Her 
mind  apparently  through  some  physical 
pressure  and  through  no  fault  of  her 
own,  nor  is  it  through  any  failure  of 
her  parents  to  do  the  will  of  the  Lord, 
is  not  able  to  grasp  the  things  that 
you  and  I  are  able  to  grasp,  and  thus 
she  will  go  through  life  underprivileged, 
not  physically  only,  but  lacking  in  the 
expression  of  her  mental  powers.  It 
is  not  her  spirit  that  is  injiu-ed,  but  her 
body,  and  the  body  is  the  medium  of 
ejroreSsion  of  the  spirit  in  this  life;  and 
when  the  body  is  injured  either  in  birth 
or  before  or  afterwards,  and  as  a  result 
the  spirit  caimot  give  expression  to  a 
normal  life  here,  then  we  speak  of 
such  as  being  defective,  and  handi- 
capped. 

And  there  are  thousands  of  such 
everywhere.  I  wish  you  could  go  with 
me  to  our  state  training  school  in  Utah 
County  and  see  the  hundreds  of  little 
children  and  men  and  women  who  are 
thus  afflicted.  As  I  have  observed  these, 
the  question  has  arisen  in  my  mind, 
"What  is  the  answer  to  this  problem  of 
these  underprivileged  children,  these 
people  who  are  not  blessed  as  are  we?" 
And  I  come  back  to  the  same  con- 
clusion that  as  those  who  are  not  here 


ELDER  CLIFFC 

will  also  sometime  share  in  the  bless- 
ings that  we  are  enjoying  in  these 
meetings,  and  as  those  who  do  not  know 
the  law  will  be  judged  without  the  law, 
even  so  will  the  Lord  grant  to  these 
who  are  not  privileged,  his  blessings 
so  that  nothing  will  be  withheld  from 
them  if  it  is  through  no  fault  of  their 
own. 

The  Lord  has  said  that  those  who 
live  without  law  shall  be  judged  without 
law,  and  by  the  same  token  those  who 
are  not  privileged  to  have  the  blessings 
in  this  life  that  you  and  I  have  who 
are  mentally  and  physically  able  and 
strong,  they  also  shall  ultimately  re- 
ceive blessings  from  oiu"  heavenly 
Father,  and  through  the  atonement  of 
Jesus  Christ,  blessings  that  are  withheld 
from  them  through  no  fault  of  their 
own  shall  not  be  withheld  from  them. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  prophet  has 
told  us  that  the  atonement  is  an  infi- 
nite atonement.  This  means  that  there 
is  no  limit  to  its  blessings  and  privileges, 
and  these  blessings  and  privileges  will 
be  extended  to  all  who  have  not  received 
them  in  this  life.  What  these  afflicted 
ones  lose  in  this  life  will  be  made  up 
to  them  in  the  life  to  come. 

And  so  I  am  grateful  with  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  not  nar- 
row in  its  application.  It  is  unlimited 
in  its  privileges  and  blessings  to  all  of 
God's  children  who  will  to  do  right 
when  once  they  understand.  For  those 
who  are  mentally  deficient,  through  no 
fault  of  their  own,  someday  these  pres- 
sures will  be  lifted.  The  healing  power 
of  the  Almighty  will  come  to  their 
bodies,  just  as  it  will  come  to  ours,  and 
as  it  came  to  the  body  of  the  Savior; 
and  their  spirits,  which  are  the  offspring 
of  God,  will  have  the  privilege  of  in- 
habiting bodies,  their  own  bodies  that 
will  be  healed  and  free  from  pressures 
and  affliction  so  that  there  will  be  no 
limit  to  the  possibilities  of  their  spirits, 
their  minds,  and  their  souls. 

Now  these  are  blessings  that  are 


ID  E.  YOUNG  95 

OUTS.  They  are  a  part  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and  just  as  the  gospel 
provides  for  those  who  will  not  have 
the  privilege,  and  who  have  not  had 
the  privilege,  of  hearing  it  in  times 
past,  and  who  may  not  in  the  future, 
just  as  the  gospel  will  be  ultimately 
made  possible  for  them  through  the 
great  vicarious  work,  the  atoning  sac- 
rifice of  Jesus  Christ,  so  through  this 
infinite  atonement  will  there  come  bless- 
ings to  those  who  now  are  deficient 
and  from  whom  are  withheld  blessings 
that  you  and  I  enjoy. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  appreciate 
these  things.  To  me  this  is  one  of  the 
great  blessings  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  It  is  one  of  the  great  revela- 
tions that  have  come  down  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  as  expressed  by  the 
prophets  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  We 
do  not  understand  the  processes,  as  we 
do  not  understand  the  processes  in  many 
things,  but  that  does  not  make  the  fact 
untrue.  It  is  as  real  and  true  as  are 
many  of  the  things  that  are  apparent  to 
us  today. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  understand 
these  things  better  than  we  have  in  the 
past,  and  may  he  give  comfort  to  the 
hundreds  and  thousands  of  mothers 
whose  hearts  are  bleeding  because  of 
the  deficiencies  in  their  children,  de^ 
ficiencies  that  have  come  through  nO 
fault  of  the  parents  or  no  fault  of  the 
child,  I  hiunbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 


The  congregation  and  the  Brigham 
Yoimg  University  Combined  Choruses 
joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Praise  to 
the  Man  Who  Communed  With 
Jehovah." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Adam  S.  Bennion  of  the  Cotin- 
cil  of  the  Twelve,  will  be  our  next " 
speaker. 


96 

Monday,  April  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENNION 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Third  Day 


JY    BRETHREN    AND  SISTERS: 

J  Tomorrow  I  shall  official- 
ly  celebrate  my  first  birth- 
K  day.  The  only  thing 
now  I  can  tell  you  for 
sure  is  that  one  year  does 
not  make  much  difference  in  your 
feelings  as  you  face  this  undertaking. 
But  it  has  been  a  wonderful  year — ^the 
most  challenging,  the  most  enriching, 
the  most  satisfying  year  in  my  life.  I 
come  to  you  with  a  new  witness,  blessed 
beyond  any  hope  I  ever  had.  I  come  to 
you  with  the  assurance  that  leaves  no 
doubt  in  the  soul. 

Each  week  end  we  have  gone  out  to 
some  stake  to  meet  the  people  who  con- 
stitute the  membership  of  this  Church. 
It  is  a  singular  thing  that  you  are  not 
in  a  stake  thirty  minutes  but  you  feel 
as  if  you  might  have  been  born  there — 
as  if  you  had  lived  there  all  your  life. 
The  people  of  this  Church  are  a  won- 
derful people,  and  I  express  my  gratitude 
for  their  thoughtfulness,  their  hospi- 
tality, their  friendliness,  and  their 
kindliness.  I  am  grateful,  too,  that  we 
are  remembered  in  their  prayers,  and 
I  want  to  assure  them  that  they  are 
remembered  in  ours. 

I  have  been  sitting  here  today  think- 
ing that  this  great  audience  in  the 
kindness  of  soul  that  I  know  is  yours, 
might  this  day  and  this  night  remember 
in  your  prayers  three  wonderful  women, 
among  the  many,  who  may  stand  in 
need.    These  three  I  know  about. 

Brother  Lee  in  the  eloquence  of  his 
witness  did  not  confide  in  you  the  sor- 
row that  is  in  his  heart.  Sister  Lee  lies 
critically  ill  as  the  result  of  a  fall  and 
a  broken  hip.  Knowing  her  as  we  do, 
I  bid  you  good  people  to  remember  her 
in  your  prayers. 

There  stands  alone  today,  the  little 
woman  who  has  gone  around  the  world 
and  stood  at  the  side  of  Elder  Matthew 
Cowley,  one  of  the  finest  witnesses  this 
Church  has  ever  had.  May  God  put  it 
into  your  hearts  to  remember  her. 


The  third  woman  is  the  wife  of  our 
beloved  President.  This  heroic  soul, 
who  carried  on  through  thirty-five  thou- 
sand miles,  with  all  kinds  of  traveling, 
day  and  night,  and  who  never  flinched, 
has  given  out  of  her  devotion  the  reserve 
of  strength  which  is  the  difference  be- 
tween full  enjoyment  of  health  and  the 
struggle  to  bear  up  against  the  load 
that  comes  to  the  helpmate  of  one  whose 
burden  is  so  tremendous.  And  so,  out 
of  the  love  that  I  know  you  bear  both 
of  them,  I  am  sure  you  will  remember 
them,  that  there  shall  be  built  back 
into  their  bodies  the  strength  that  was 
spent  on  that,  one  of  the  greatest  mis- 
sionary trips  ever  taken. 

It  is  good  to  be  with  you.  This  has 
been  a  wonderful  conference.  To  come 
into  this  Tabernacle  and  listen  to  these 
testimonies  is  to  know  in  your  heart  that 
this  is  God's  work.  I  bear  you  that 
witness. 

Last  October,  I  made  the  suggestion 
that  perhaps  you  could  have  an  unusual 
Christmas  in  '53  if  you  read  a  chapter 
from  the  New  Testament  each  day  be- 
tween that  conference  and  the  Christ- 
mas holidays.  I  want  to  thank  those 
who  have  written  in  their  letters,  some 
of  them  signed  by  entire  families.  I 
am  grateful  to  your  children  who  caught 
the  spirit  of  your  suggestion.  It  has 
been  wonderful  to  me — so  much  so  that 
I  am  going  on  with  that  reading.  I 
do  not  mean  to  replace  it  or  substitute 
for  it,  but  I  resolved  when  I  came  into 
this  calling  that,  among  other  things, 
I  would  read  into  two  fields  very  fully: 

1.  The  New  Testament,  and  try  to 
catch  the  spirit  of  Him  in  whose  serv- 
ice we  are  engaged;  and, 

2.  The  history  of  our  forefathers 
through  whom  we  have  received  the 
blessings  of  the  restoration  of  this  glori- 
ous gospel. 

And  so  in  the  spare  time — that  we  do 
not  have — have  been  trying  to  find  a 
few  minutes  regularly  for  Church  his- 
tory.  I  want  to  commend  it  to  you. 


ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENNION 


97 


And  all  the  time  I  have  been  reading,  I 
have  come  to  two  convictions,  and  they 
constitute  the  burden  of  what  I  want 
to  say  this  afternoon.  As  you  read  the 
history  of  the  pioneers,  it  becomes  in- 
creasingly clear  with  every  page  that 
you  read,  that  they  endured  adversity 
and  hardship.  They  could  stand  perse- 
cution; they  could  bear  up  under  abuse; 
they  could  recover  from  the  infliction  of 
all  kinds  of  harmful  hatreds.  That 
record  is  clear.  The  question  before 
our  generation  is:  Can  we  and  our  chil- 
dren endure  prosperity  and  ease? 

I  have  not  the  time  this  afternoon 
to  compare  the  two  struggles.  I  some- 
titoes  wonder  which  is  the  harder.  It 
sounds  very  much  easier  to  slide  along 
in  complacency,  with  everything  that 
we  need.  But  such  a  course  has  never 
yet  been  the  route  followed  by  God's 
chosen  people. 

To  go  in  upon  any  scene  in  Church 
history  fully  would  take  more  time  than 
I  have,  and  yet  I  want  you  to  pause  with 
me  all  too  briefly  at  five  spots  along 
the  way.  As  you  read  the  history,  you 
become  impressed  first  that  God  was 
moving  his  people  west  all  the  time; 
from  New  York  to  Salt  Lake  City,  his 
hand  was  in  their  moving;  and  as  he 
moved  them,  he  seemed  to  be  preparing 
them  for  that  greater  trek  which  was 
still  ahead. 

The  second  conviction  that  must  at- 
tach to  any  such  reading  is  that  Satan 
at  every  turn  in  the  road  was  trying 
to  block  the  program.  You  remember, 
from  the  very  beginning,  when  the 
Prophet  went  out  to  the  Sacred  Grove 
to  pray.  .  .  .  Let  me  quote: 

After  I  had  retired  to  the  place  where  I 
had  previously  designed  to  go,  having  looked 
around  me,  and  finding  myself  alone,  I 
kneeled  down  and  began  to  offer  up  thf 
desire  of  my  heart  to  God.  I  had  scarcely 
done  so,  when  immediately  I  was  seized 
upon  by  some  power  which  entirely  over- 
came me,  and  had  such  an  astonishing 
influence  over  me  as  to  bind  my  tongue  so 
that  I  could  not  speak.  Thick  darkness 
gathered  aroimd  me,  and  it  seemed  to  me 
for  a  time  as  if  I  were  doomed  to  sudden 
destruction. 

But,  exerting  all  my  powers  to  call  upon 


God  to  deliver  me  out  of  the  power  of  this 
enemy  which  had  seized  upon  me,  and  at 
the  very  moment  when  I  was  ready  to 
sink  into  despair  and  abandon  myself  to 
destruction — not  to  an  imaginary  ruin,  but 
to  the  power  of  some  actual  being  from  the 
unseen  world,  who  had  such  marvelous 
power  as  I  had  never  before  felt  in  any 
being — ^just  at  this  moment  of  great  alarm, 
I  saw  a  pillar  of  light  exactly  over  my 
head,  above  the  brightness  of  the  sun,  which 
descended  gradually  until  it  fell  upon  me. 

It  no  sooner  appeared  than  I  found  my- 
self delivered  from  the  enemy  which  held 
me  bound.  When  the  light  rested  upon 
me  I  saw  two  Personages,  whose  brightness 
and  glory  defy  all  description,  standing 
above  me  in  the  air.  One  of  them  spalce 
unto  me,  calling  me  by  name  and  said, 
pointing  to  the  other — "This  is  My  Beloved 
Son.  Hear  Him!"  (Joseph  Smith's  Own 
Story  in  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  2:15-17.) 

From  that  moment  of  assurance  the 
Prophet  Joseph  knew  in  every  fibre  of 
his  being  that  his  destiny  would  be 
fulfilled  in  the  earth. 

Let  us  make  a  second  pause  just  for 
a  few  minutes  in  Jackson  County  to 
catch  the  spirit  of  the  expulsion  of  our 
people. 

At  the  order  of  Lieutenant  Governor 
Boggs  the  state  militia  marched  into  Jack- 
son County  and  disarmed  the  Mormons. 
Concerning  the  brutalities  that  followed, 
B.  H.  Roberts  writes:  "The  Colonels  in 
command — Pitcher  and  Lucas — were  known 
as  the  bitter  enemies  of  the  Saints.  .  .  . 
From  such  a  militia,  officered  by  such  men 
as  Pitcher  and  Lucas,  the  Saints  could  hope 
for  no  protection.  .  .  .  The  agreement 
made  by  Colonel  Pitcher,  to  disarm  the 
mob  was  never  esKcuted;  but  as  soon  as  the 
brethren  had  surrendered  their  arms,  bands 
of  armed  men  were  turned  loose  upon  them. 
.  .  .  The  men  who  had  made  up  the  rank 
and  file  of  the  militia  on  the  5th  of  Novem- 
ber, the  next  day  were  riding  over  the 
country  in  armed  gangs  threatening  men, 
women,  and  children  with  violence,  search- 
ing for  arms,  and  brutally  tying  up  and 
whipping  some  of  the  men,  and  shooting 
at  others.  The  leaders  of  these  ruffians 
were  some  of  the  prominent  men  of  the 
county;  Colonel  Pitcher  and  Lieutenant 
Governor  Boggs  being  among  the  number. 
The  Priests  in  the  county,  it  seems,  were 
determined  not  to  be  outdone  by  the  poli- 
ticians, for  the  Reverend  Isdac  McCoy  and 


98 

Monday,  April  5 

Other  preachers  of  the  gospel  were  seen 
leading  armed  bands  of  marauders  from 
place  to  place;  and  were  the  main  inspirers 
of  cowardly  assaults  on  the  defenseless." 

Throughout  the  first  two  weeks  of  Novem- 
ber, 1833,  men,  women,  and  children  fled 
in  confusion  from  their  burning  homes. 
Lyman  Wight  gave  testimony  in  court  that 
"one  company  of  one  hundred  and  ninety — 
all  women  and  children,  except  three  de- 
crepit old  men — were  driven  thirty  miles 
across  a  burnt  prairie.  The  ground  was 
thinly  crusted  with  sleet,  and  the  trails  of 
these  exiles  were  easily  followed  by  the 
blood  which  flowed  from  their  lacerated 
feet." 

Before  the  Jacksonites  ceased  their  whole- 
sale depredations,  they  had  killed  Andrew 
Barber  and  wounded  several  other  brethren; 
had  burned  203  homes  and  one  flour  mill; 
had  driven  the  owners — twelve  hundred  in 
number— northward  to  the  bleak  bluffs  of 
the  Missouri  River,  where  the  refugees  in 
wind  and  rain  made  camp,  awaiting  their 
turn  to  ferry  the  river  barrier  into  Clay 
County,  seeking  needed  protection  and 
shelter. 

Elder  Parley  P.  Pratt  leaves  this  vivid 
picture  of  the  exiles  along  the  Missouri 
River:  "The  shore  began  to  be  lined  on 
both  sides  of  the  ferry  with  men,  women, 
and  children;  goods,  wagons,  boxes,  pro- 
visions, etc.,  while  the  ferry  was  con- 
stantly employed;  and  when  night  closed 
upon  us  the  cottonwood  bottom  had  much 
the  appearance  of  a  camp  meeting.  Him- 
dreds  of  people  were  seen  in  every  direc- 
tion, some  in  tents  and  some  in  the  own 
air  around  their  fires,  while  the  rain  de- 
scended in  torrents.  Husbands  were  irt- 
quiring  for  their  wives;  wives  for  their 
husbands;  parents  for  children  and  children 
for  parents.  Some  had  the  good  fortune  to 
escape  with  their  families,  household  goods, 
and  some  provisions;  while  others  knew 
not  the  fate  of  their  friends,  and  had  lost 
all  their  goods.  The  scene  was  inde- 
scribable and,  I  am  sure,  would  have  inelted 
the  hearts  of  any  people  on  the  earUi,  ex- 
cept our  blind  oppressors."  (Joseph  Smith, 
History  of  the  Church.  1:426-440;  B.  H. 
Roberts,  Missouri  Persecutions,  pp.  105- 
107.) 

Did  we  have  the  time  this  afternoon, 
I  should  ask  you  to  go  into  Carthage 
Jail  with  me,  where  I  have  stood,  stirred 
by  the  bloodstains  on  the  floor,  to 
ponder  the  deaths  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
and  his  brother,  Hyrum;  the  inspired 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

friendship  and  faith  and  trust  of  Willard 
Richards  and  John  Taylor.  But  tarry 
with  me  just  a  minute  and  try  to 
imagine  the  impact  of  the  martyrdom: 

"He  has  jumped  the  window,"  shouted  the 
rabble,  and  they  rushed  pellmell  down- 
stairs. Willard  Richards,  hurrying  to  the 
window,  looked  down  upon  the  Prophet, 
surrounded  by  frenzied  men.  He  then 
started  for  the  stairway,  but  a  distressed 
call  from  John  Taylor  stopped  him,  "Take 
me."  Happy  that  John  was  not  dead, 
Willard  dragged  him  from  under  the  bed 
and  into  another  room.  While  hiding  him 
under  an  old  mattress,  he  admonished 
gravely:  "If  your  wounds  are  not  fatal, 
I  want  you  to  live  to  tell  the  story."  Brother 
Richards  expected  to  be  shot  momentarily. 

The  excited  mob,  believing  that  they  had 
killed  all  four  of  the  prisoners  and  hearing 
a  shout,  "The  Mormons  are  coming,"  fled 
from  Carthage  in  terror,  followed  by  most 
of  the  frantic  citizens.  It  was  this  false 
cry,  no  doubt,  that  saved  the  lives  of  Willard 
Richards  and  John  Taylor. 

To  report  the  Jerrible  disaster  and  to 
obtain  aid  George  D.  Grant  and  David 
Bettisworth  hurried  on  horseback  toward 
Nauvoo.  Within  three  miles  of  the  city 
they  were  stopped  by  Governor  Ford  and 
his  staff,  who  carried  them  back  to  Carthage. 
After  warning  the  remaining  citizens  of  the 
town  that  the  Mormons  would  be  coming, 
he  and  his  men  galloped  off  at  midnight 
for  Warsaw.  He  later  testified  that  he 
fully  expected  that  Carthage  would  be  laid 
in  ashes  before  morning. 

On  the  morning  after  the  martyrdom, 
Willard  Richards  and  a  few  friends,  having 
dressed  as  best  they  could  the  bleeding 
wounds  of  Elder  Taylor  at  the  Hamilton 
House,  put  the  bodies  of  Joseph  and  Hyrum 
in  two  boxes,  which  they  placed  on  two 
borrowed  wagons  and  started  for  Nauvoo, 
the  "City  of  Joseph." 

Describing  the  sorrowful  scene  of  that 
tragic  day.  Dr.  B.  W.  Richmond,  a  non- 
Mormon  reports  that  the  two  wagons  were 
met  near  the  temple  grounds  by  a  "vast 
concourse  of  citizens.  The  officials  formed 
aroimd  the  bodies,  while  the  masses  silently 
opened  to  give  them  way,  and  as  the  mourn- 
ful procession  moved  on,  the  women  broke 
out  in  lamentations  at  the  sight  of  the  two 
rude  boxes  in  the  wagons,  covered  with 
Indian  blankets.  The  weeping  was  com- 
municated to  the  crowd,  and  spread  along 
the  vast  waves  of  humanity  extending  from 
the  Temple  to  the  residence  of  the  Prophet. 


ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENNION 


99 


The  groans  and  sobs  and  shrieks  grew 
deeper,  and  louder,  till  the  sound  resembled 
the  roar  of  a  mighty  tempest,  or  the  low, 
deep  roar  of  the  distant  tornado."  (D.  H.  C, 
Vn:102-112;  Andrew  Jenson,  Historical 
Record,  pp.  572-576;  B.  H.  Roberts,  Rise 
and  Fall  of  Nauvoo,  pp.  330,  312,  404-456.) 

Pause  four  is  a  brief  glimpse  at  the 
exodus  across  Iowa,  February  1846: 

On  February  22,  1846  a  raging  blizzard, 
leaving  twelve  inches  of  snow,  struck  the 
Mormon  pioneers  huddled  in  their  temporary 
camp  at  Sugar  Creek,  Iowa.  Following 
this  terrible  storm,  the  weather  turned 
frigid,  "12  below  Zero,"  even  sealing  the 
great  Mississippi  River  from  shore  to  shore. 
On  one  of  these  nights  nine  babies  came 
into  camp,  born  under  almost  every  variety 
of  frontier  camp  life  imaginable.  Eliza  R. 
Snow  tells  of  one  birth  that  occurred  in  a 
rude  improvised  shelter,  the  sides  of  which 
were  formed  of  blankets  fastened  to  poles 
stuck  in  the  ground.  The  owner  of  the 
hut  had  peeled  bark  from  cottonwood  trees 
and  had  made  a  sort  of  a  roof  covering 
through  which  the  water  leaked,  but  help- 
ful sisters  held  pans  over  the  newborn 
child  and  its  mother. 

It  was  during  these  adverse  conditions 
that  an  unknown  camp  poet  penned  this 
prayer: 

"God  pity  the  exiles,  when  storms  come 
down — 

.When  snow-laden  clouds  hang  low  on  the 
ground, 

When  the  chill  blast  of  winter,  with  frost 

on  its  breath 
Sweeps  through  the  tents  like  the  angel  of 

deathl 

When  the  sharp  cry  of  child-birth  is  heard 

on  the  air. 
And  the  voice  of  the  father  breaks  down 

in  his  prayer. 
As  he  pleads  with  Jehovah,  his  loved  ones 

to  sparel"  (Edward  W.  Tullidge,  The 
Women  of  Mormondom,  pp.  307-309; 
Memoirs  of  John  R.  Young,  Utah  Pioneer, 
1847,  p.  14.) 

And  for  pause  five,  let  us  live  all  too 
briefly  with  the  handcart  companies  of 
October  1856: 

Contrary  to  the  anticipation  of  these 
poorly  clad  people,  the  fall  and  early  winter 
of  1856  were  unusually  stormy  and  merci- 
less. A  winter  blizzard  broke  upon  Willie's 
Company  at  the  Sweetwater^  and  it  struck 


Martin's  group  that  was  struggling  across 
the  alkaline  waste  lands  above  the  last 
crossing  of  the  Platte. 

The  frigid,  two-day  storm,  covering  the 
country  with  more  than  a  foot  of  snow, 
smashed  tents  and  wagon  covers.  Ten, 
twelve,  and  sometimes  as  many  as  fifteen 
deaths  came  in  a  day.  Shallow  graves  were 
scraped  out.  At  night  packs  of  marauding 
wolves  howled  or  fought  at  the  burial 
places.  From  all  appearances  these  two 
companies  were  doomed  to  perish  on  the 
eastern  slopes  of  the  Rockies,  three  hundred 
miles  from  Zion. 

When  the  storm  subsided,  the  companies 
made  a  fresh  start,  but  moved  only  a  few 
miles  a  day.  It  was  under  these  trying 
conditions  that  two  horsemen,  riding  ahead 
of  the  rescue  parties  from  Salt  Lake  City, 
met  Willie's  Company  October  28,  1856  on 
the  Sweetwater  River. 

John  Chislett,  a  member  of  Willie's  Com- 
pany, expressing  his  overwhelming  joy,  ex- 
claimed: 

"More  welcome  messengers  never  came 
from  the  courts  of  glory  than  these  two 
young  men  were  to  us.  They  lost  no  time, 
after  encouraging  us  all  they  could  to  press 
forward,  but  sped  further  to  convey  their 
glad  news  to  Edward  Martin,  the  fifth  hand- 
cart company,  who  had  left  Florence  about 
two  weeks  after  us,  and  who  it  was  feared 
were  even  worse  off  than  we  were.  As  they 
went  from  our  view,  many  a  hearty  'God 
bless  you,'  followed  them." 

Dan  W.  Jones,  one  of  the  rescuing  party, 
gives  a  distressing  picture  of  Martin's  com- 
pany: "The  train  was  strung  out  for  three 
or  four  miles.  There  were  old  men  pulling 
and  tugging  at  their  carts,  and  children, 
six  and  eight  years  of  age,  struggling 
through  the  snow  and  mud.  As  night  came 
on  the  mud  and  snow  froze  to  their  cloth- 
ing." 

After  Martin's  Company  had  lost  almost 
one  fourth  of  its  number  in  "Martin's 
Ravine,"  it  moved  forward  to  the  Sweet- 
water River — a  hundred  feet  wide,  waist 
deep,  and  filled  with  floating  ice.  At  the 
sight  of  this  barrier,  many  Saints  sank  by 
their  carts.  In  this  helpless  condition  they 
were  found  by  three  sturdy  young  men  who 
had  pu^ed  ahead  of  the  supply  wagons. 
These  brawny  rescuers  heroically  waded  the 
river  and  began  carrying  the  sick  and 
feeble  across.  This  human  fording  con- 
tinued back  and  forth,  trip  after  trip 
through  those  chilling  waters  until  every 
person  and  his  ceui;  had  been  safely  landed 
upon  the  opposite  shore. 


100  GENERAL  ( 

Monday,  April  S 

President  Young,  upon  learning  of  this 
valorous  service,  wept  freely.  Arid  while 
reporting  it  to  the  Saints  in  General  Con- 
ference, predicted:  "That  act  alone  will  in- 
sure David  P.  Kimball,  George  W.  Grant, 
and  C.  Allen  Huntington  an  everlastiiw 
salvation  in  the  Celestial  Kingdom  of  GocU 
worlds  without  end." 

With  the  coming  of  104  relief  outfits  from 
Salt  Lake  City,  the  emigrants  abandoned 
their  carts.  Those  who  were  unable  to 
walk  were  loaded  into  the  wagons.  Death 
from  freezing  and  exposure,  nevertheless, 
continued  daily.  Before  the  last  survivors 
arrived  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Sunday,  Novem- 
ber 30,  222  of  these  valiant  pioneers  had 
found  graves  by  the  roadside.  (Joseph  Field- 
ing Smith,  Essentials  in  Church  History,  p. 
489;  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Founding  of  Utah, 
p.  148;  Solomon  F.  Kimball,  Life  of  David 
P.  Kimball,  p.  9;  Roberts,  Comprehensive 
History,  IV:  100-107.) 

Under  the  spirit  of  achievements  like 
these,  it  is  inspiring  to  hear  these  fine 
young  people  of  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity put  their  hearts,  as  well  as  their 
voices,  into  "Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints." 

How  fitting  it  is  to  be  able  to  turn 
to  that  classic  volume  of  President 
Clark's  To  Them  of  the  Last  Wagon 
and  The  Pioneers  for  a  tribute  and  a 
challenge. 

One  thing  in  common  all  these  peoples 
had  in  their  search  for  freedom  to  worship 
God— a  schooling  in  hardship,  persecution, 
sacrifice,  that  burned  out  from  their  souls 
the  dross,  leaving  in  them  only  the  ptire 
gold  of  loftiest  character  and  faith,  fully 
tried,  tested,  refined.  God  has  never  worked 
out  his  purposes  through  the  pampered  vic- 
tims of  ease  and  luxury  and  riotous  living. 
Always  He  has  used  to  meet  the  great  crises 
in  His  work,  those  in  whom  hardship,  priva- 
tion, and  persecution  had  built  characters 
and  wills  of  iron.  God  shapes  His  servants 
in  the  forge  of  adversity;  He  does  not  fashion 
them  in  flie  hot  house  of  ease  and  luxury. 
(The  Pioneers,  p.  41.) 

In  living  our  lives  let  us  never  forget  that 
the  deeds  of  our  fathers  and  mothers  are 
theirs,  not  ours;  that  their  works  cannot  be 
counted  to  our  glory;  that  we  can  claim  no 
excellence  and  no  place,  because  of  what 
they  did;  that  we  must  rise  by  our  own 
labor,  and  that  labor  failing  we  shall  fall. 
We  may  claim  no  honor,  no  reward,  no 
respect,  nor  special  position  or  recognition, 
no  credit  because  of  what  our  fathers  were 


Third  Day 

or  what  they  wrought.  We  stand  upon  our 

own  feet  in  our  own  shoes.  There  is  no 
aristocracy  of  birth  in  this  Church;  it  be- 
longs equally  to  the  highest  and  the  lowliest. 
For  as  Peter  said  to  Cornelius,  the  Roman 
centurion,  seeking  him:  "Of  a  truth  I  per- 
ceive that  God  is  no  respecter  of  persons: 

"But  in  every  nation  he  that  feareth  him, 
and  worketh  righteousness,  is  accepted  with 
him."  (Acts  10:34-35.)  (To  Them  of  the 
Last  Wagon,  p.  28.) 

What  of  us?  Can  we  keep  and  preserve 
what  they  wrought?  Shall  we  pass  on  to 
our  children  the  heritage  they  left  us,  or 
shall  we  lightly  fritter  it  away?  Have  we 
their  faith,  their  bravery,  their  courage; 
could  we  endure  their  hardships  and  suffer- 
ings, make  their  sacrifices,  bear  up  under 
their  trials,  their  sorrows,  their  tragedies,  be- 
lieve the  simple  things  they  knew  were 
true,  have  the  simple  faith  that  worked 
miracles  for  them,  follow,  and  not  falter  or 
fall  by  the  wayside,  where  our  leaders  ad- 
vance, face  the  slander  and  the  scorn  of  an 
unpopular  belief?  Can  we  do  the  thousands 
of  little  and  big  things  that  made  them  the 
heroic  builders  of  a  great  Church,  a  great 
commonwealth?  (The  Pioneers,  p.  45.) 

Confident,  as  I  am,  that  the  blood 
of  the  pioneers  still  flows  in  the  veins 
of  their  grandchildren  and  great-grand- 
children, I  give  you  in  witness  the  young 
men  and  women  of  this  chorus.  I  have 
already  caught  of  the  spirit  of  these 
youths  at  their  university.  I  give  it  as 
my  judgment,  that  called  upon  to  face 
Carthage,  or  the  trek  across  the  conti- 
nent, they  would  heroically  meet  both 
challenges.  I  honor  this  new  genera- 
tion. 

On  the  fifteenth  of  March  I  was  in 
Los  Angeles.  There  had  gathered  there 
some  1600  fine  yoimg  people,  and  the 
nejct  night  we  had  a  thousand  at  San 
Diego.  Then  it  was  that  I  learned  that 
1700  grand  young  people,  every  morn- 
ing of  the  school  week,  go  from  three 
to  twenty-three  miles  to  attend  a  sem- 
inary class  that  meets  at  seven  o'clock 
in  the  morning,  for  which  work  ihey 
get  no  high  school  credit.  The  young 
girl,  Janie  Kimball,  who  pinned  an 
honorary  seminary  pin  on  me,  was 
given  that  privilege  because  her  father 
had  driven  her  fifteen  miles  every 
morning  and  then  had  driven  her  bade 


PRESIDENT  D. 

to  her  high  school,  and  she  had  not 
missed  a  class  all  year.  She  reported 
to  me  they  might  have  to  miss  high 
school,  but  they  never  would  miss  the 
class  where  they  learned  the  word  of  the 
Lord. 

To  you  parents,  as  you  dream  dreams 
for  the  children  you  dherish,  may  I  offer 

these  suggestions: 

1.  Make  sure  that  your  children  know 
our  pioneer  story.  Let  it  not  be  said 
in  any  Latter-day  Saint  home  that  the 
children  grow  up  in  ignorance  of  the 
achievements  of  their  forebears.  Both 
you  and  they  will  stir  to  the  materials 
in  the  books  already  quoted  in  this  ad- 
dress and  in  such  other  publications  as: 

Family  Journals  and  Diaries 

Major  Howard  Egan,  Pioneering  the  West 

Autobiography,  Parley  P.  Pratt 

William  Clayton's  Journal 

Leaves  from  My  Journal — ^Wilford  Woodruff 

The  L.D.S.   Church,  Its  Doctrines  and 

Achievements,  to  be  published — ^by  Carter 

E.  Grant. 

2.  Give  them  responsibility;  let  them 
do  some  work.  It  is  an  ungracious  thing 
for  the  lovely  daughter  who  is  studying 
the  piano  to  be  led  to  believe  that  she 
cannot  do  any  work  which  might  inter- 
fere with  the  softness  of  her  fingers. 
God  bless  her.  Her  hands  will  take  care 
of  themselves.  Nature  will  do  that,  if 
she  will  do  a  little  something  to  take 
the  bend  out  of  the  back  of  the  mother 
who  has  been  caring  for  her  these  many 
years.  Give  your  children  tasks  to  do. 
The  Pioneers  were  never  made  on  an 
easy  trail.  They  gloried  in  hardship, 
and  the  parent  who  would  spare  his 
child  in  the  interest  of  kindness,  does 
the  unkindest  thing  possible  to  a  child 
when  he  saves  him  from  work  and  re- 
sponsibility. 

3.  Be  careful  about  what  your  chil- 
dren do  at  night — ^what  their  program  is, 
who  their  companions  are — and  have 
them  in  at  a  reasonable  hour.  Try  to 
see  that  they  go  with  young  men  and 
women  who  inspire  them  to  higher 
ideals,  rather  than  with  those  who  make 
the  rounds  at  glittering  night  spots, 
rich  in  temptation  and  low  in  appeal. 

The  Pioneers  survived  hardship  and 


/ID  O.  McOY  101 

adversity.  With  careful  training  our 
children  will  endure  prosperity  and 
ease  and  will  grow  up  in  the  spirit  of 
this  chorus  today  to  be  an  everlasting 
honor  and  credit,  not  only  to  themselves, 
to  their  families,  and  to  the  Church, 
but  to  their  Father  in  heaven.  May 
they  do  so,  I  pray  humbly,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Adam  S.  Bennion  of  the  Coim- 
cil  of  the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  have  furnished  the 
music  this  afternoon  and  this  morning. 
We  commend  this  group  of  yovmg  peo- 
ple for  the  service  they  have  rendered 
this  day.  We  would  like  to  say  to 
them  that  the  greatest  joy  that  comes 
to  the  human  heart  is  found  in  the  hap- 
piness that  we  give  to  others  and  in  the 
service  that  we  render  our  fellow  men. 
We  hope,  yotmg  folks,  that  the  happi- 
ness that  you  have  awakened  in  the 
hearts  of  thousands  this  day  will  crane 
back  into  your  own,  and  God  bless  you 
in  all  the  service  uiat  will  he  offered 
to  you  to  render  in  yotir  future  lives. 
"He  that  loseth  his  life  for  my  sake  shall 
find  it."  You  will  find  your  joy  in 
making  others  happy.    God  bless  yoa 

These  Choruses  will  sing,  "The 
Hallelujah  Chorus,"  under  the  direction 
of  Elder  Crawford  Gates. 

The  benediction  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  J.  Orval  Ellsworth,  formerly 
President  of  the  Central  States  Mission, 
after  which  this  Conference  will  be  ad- 
journed until   10:00  o'clock  tomorrow 

morning.  t  '  e  t. 

A  meeting  devoted  to  the  work  of  the 
stake  and  foreign  missions  will  be  held 
in  the  Tabernacle  this  evening  at  7:00 
o'clock.  Mission  Presidents  in  at- 
tendance at  the  General  Conference,  all 
stake  mission  presidents,  and  stake  rnis- 
sionaires,  and  the  presidencies  of  stakes 
are  requested  to  attend  this  meeting. 
An  invitation  is  extended,  also,  to  mem- 
bers of  High  Councils,  bishoprics,  presi- 
dents of  seventies'  quorums,  and  general 
boards  of  auxiliary  organizations. 

To  the  members  of  the  choirs  we 


102 

Tuesday,  ^pril  6 

should  like  to  say  that  there  will  be  a 
reception  for  you  and  others  in  the 
Church  School  System,  immediately  after 
this  meeting  in  the  Lafayette  Ballroom 
in  the  Hotel  Utah  in  honor  of  the 
Administrators  of  the  unified  Churdi 
School  System,  including  the  Adminis- 
trators of  the  Brigham  Young  University, 
Ricks  College,  L.D.S.  Business  College, 
McCune  School  of  Music,  and  me 
Juarez  Stake  Academy,  and  also  the  Di- 
rectors of  all  Latter-day  Saint  Insti- 
tutes of  Religion.  Parents  and  stu- 
dents are  also  invited. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fourth  Day 

Singing,  "Halleluiah  Chorus,"  and 
after  the  benediction,  this  Conference 
will  be  adjourned  until  tomorrow  morn- 
ing. 


The  Brigham  Yoimg  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  sang  the  "Hallelujah 
Chorus." 

Elder  J.  Orval  Ellsworth,  formerly 
president  of  the  Central  States  Mission, 
ofFered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Tuesday, 
April  6,  at  10:00  a.m. 


FOURTH  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  sixth  session  of  the  Conference 
was  held  in  the  Tabernacle  at  10  o'clock 
a.m.,  Tuesday,  April  6. 

The  choral  music  for  this  session  of 
the  conference  was  furnished  by  the 
Singing  Mothers,  Sister  Florence  Jep- 
person  Madsen,  conducting  and  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  are  assembled  in  the  great  Taber- 
nacle on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake 
City  in  the  sixth  session  of  the  C3ne 
hundred  Twenty-fourth  Annual  Confer- 
ence of  the  Chmch  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

As  heretofore  announced,  these  serv- 
ices will  be  broadcast  to  the  Assembly 
Hall  and  Barratt  Hall  over  a  public 
address  system  and  by  television.  They 
will  also  be  televised  over  KSL-TV 
Chaimel  5,  and  by  arrangement  through 
KSL  over  twelve  radio  stations  in  Utah, 
Idaho,  Arizona  and  Wyoming,  the  name 
of  each  of  which  was  just  announced 
during  the  pause. 

Because  of  some  who  may  be  listening 
in,  we  desire  again  to  express  our  ap- 
preciation to  these  various  radio  stations 
for  their  courtesy  in  making  available 
their  time  and  facilities  for  these  broad- 
casts. Cards  and  telegrams  are  still 
coming  in  expressing  appreciation  of 


those  who  listened  in  Sunday  over  the 
television  in  the  Northwest  and  Cali- 
fornia. 

You  are  happy,  I  am  sure,  to  recog- 
nize our  Singing  Mothers,  who  will 
furnish  the  music  for  this  session  and 
this  afternoon.  Sister  Florence  Jepperson 
Madsen  conducting  and  Brother  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ.  We  shall  begin 
this  session  by  the  Relief  Society  Sing- 
ing Mothers  singing,  "O  Lord  Most 
Holy."  The  invocation  will  be  ofFered 
by  Elder  John  B.  Matheson,  formerly 
P^resident  of  the  East  Central  States 
Mission. 


The  opening  selection  was  by  the 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers,  "O  Lord 
Most  Holy." 

Elder  John  B.  Matheson,  formerly 
president  of  the  East  Central  States  Mis- 
sion, offered  the  opening  prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

"O  Savior  of  the  World"  will  now  be 
sung  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Moth- 
ers. Following  the  song,  we  will  hear 
from  Elder  Kimball  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve. 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
sang,  "O  Savior  of  the  World." 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  HIS  HAS  been  a  glorious  con- 
ference. It  pleases  me  greatly 
to  notice  that  at  each  suc- 
ceeding conference  there  is 
a  larger  sprinkling  of  Japa- 
nese and  Chinese  brothers 
and  sisters;  of  Hawaiians  and  other 
islanders;  of  Indians,  Mexicans,  Spanish- 
Americans  and  others.  It  makes  me  very 
happy  indeed,  and  I  wish  to  address  my 
remarks  this  morning  in  behalf  of  those 
minorities. 

Recently  there  came  to  my  desk  a 
letter,  anonymously  written.  Generally 
the  wastebasket  receives  all  such  mes- 
sages, written  by  people  who  have  not 
the  courage  to  sign  their  statements. 
But  this  time  I  saved  it.  It  reads  in 
part  as  follows: 

I  never  dreamed  I  would  live  to  see  the 
day  when  the  Church  would  invite  an  In- 
dian buck  to  talk  in  the  Salt  Lake  Taber- 
nacle— an  Indian  buck  appointed  a  bishop — 
an  Indian  squaw  to  talk  in  the  Ogden 
Tabernacle— Indians  to  go  through  the  Salt 
Lake  Temple — 

The  sacred  places  desecrated  by  the  in- 
vasion of  everything  that  is  forced  on  the 
white  race.  ... 

This  letter  now  goes  into  the  fire  also, 
but  it  gives  me  the  theme  for  the  words 
I  wish  to  say  today. 

If  Mrs.  Anonymous  were  the  only  one 
who  felt  that  way!  However,  from  many 
places  and  different  directions  I  hear 
intolerant  expressions.  While  there  is 
an  ever-increasing  number  of  people 
who  are  kind  and  willing  to  accept  the 
minority  groups  as  they  come  into  the 
Church,  there  are  still  many  who  speak 
in  disparaging  terms,  who  priestlike  and 
Levite-like  pass  by  on  the  other  side  of 
the  street. 

It  would  be  a  delightful  step  forward 
if  our  newspapers  and  periodicals  and 
our  writers  and  speakers  would  discon- 
tinue the  term  buck  and  squaw  and 
substitute  "Indian  men  and  women"  or 
"Lamanite  brethren  and  sisters." 


Their  ancestors  and  ancient  prophets 
foresaw  this  day  and  knew  that  this 
people  would  be  reviled  and  disparaged. 

In  the  letter  quoted,  there  is  the  sug- 
gestion of  a  superior  race!  From  the 
dawn  of  history  we  have  seen  so-called 
superior  races  go  down  from  the  heights 
to  the  depths  in  a  long  parade  of  exits. 
Among  them  were  the  Assyrians,  the 
Egyptians,  the  Babylonians,  the  Per- 
sians, the  Greeks,  and  the  Romans. 
They,  with  more  modern  nations,  have 
been  defeated  in  battle,  humiliated  and 
crushed  in  economic  life.  Is  the  im- 
plication of  Mrs.  Anonymous  justified 
that  the  white  race  or  the  American 
people  is  superior?  John  the  Baptist, 
in  forceful  terms,  rebuked  a  similar 
self-styled  superior  group: 

O  generation  of  vipers,  who  hath  warned 
you  to  flee  from  the  wrath  to  come? 

Bring  forth  therefore  fruits  meet  for  re- 
pentance: 

And  think  not  to  say  within  yourselves. 
We  have  Abraham  to  our  father:  for  I  say 
unto  you,  that  God  is  able  of  these  stones 
to  raise  up  children  unto  Abraham.  (Matt. 
3:7-9.) 

The  Lord  would  have  eliminated 
bigotry  and  class  distinction.  He  talked 
to  the  Samaritan  woman  at  the  well, 
healed  the  centurion's  kin,  and  blessed 
the  child  of  the  Canaanitish  woman. 
And  though  he  personally  came  to  the 
"lost  sheep  of  the  house  of  Israel"  and 
sent  his  Apostles  first  to  them  rather 
than  to  the  Samaritans  and  other  Gen- 
tiles, yet  he  later  sent  Paul  to  bring 
the  gospel  to  the  Gentiles  and  revealed 
to  Peter  that  the  gospel  was  for  all. 
The  prejudices  were  deep-rooted  in 
Peter,  and  it  took  a  vision  from  heaven 
to  help  him  to  cast  off  his  bias.  The 
voice  had  commanded:  "Rise,  Peter; 
kill,  and  eat,"  when  the  vessel  de- 
scended from  the  heaven  containing  all 
manner  of  beasts,  reptiles  and  fowls. 
Pimctilious  Peter  expressed  his  life-long 
prejudices  and  habits  in  saying,  "Not  so. 


104 

Tuesday,  April  6 

Lord;  for  I  have  never  eaten  any  thing 
that  is  common  or  unclean."  Then  the 
heavenly  voice  made  clear  that  the 
program  was  for  all.  "What  God  hath 
cleansed,"  it  said,  "that  call  not  thou 
common."  Peter's  long-sustained  preju- 
dices gave  way  finally  under  the  power 
of  the  thrice  repeated  command.  wKen 
the  devout  Gentile  Cornelius  imime- 
diately  thereafter  appealed  to  hihi  for 
the  gospel,  the  full  meaning  of.  the 
vision  burst  upon  Peter  and  he  ex- 
claimed, "God  hath  shewed  me  that  J 
should  not  call  any  man  common  or 
unclean."  (See  Acts  10:11-28.) 

And  when  those  of  the  circumcised 
complained,  Peter,  now  very  sure,  re- 
hearsed the  whole  story  and  concluded 
with  these  memorable  words: 

Men  and  brethren,  ye  know  that  a  good 
while  ago  God  made  choice  among  us,  that 
the  Gentiles  by  my  mouth  should  hear  the 
word  of  the  gospel,  and  believe. 

And  God,  which  knoweth  the  hearts,  bare 
them  witness,  giving  them  the  Holy  Ghost, 
even  as  he  did  unto  us; 

And  put  no  diifeience  between  us  and 
them.  (Ibid.,  15:7-9.) 

"What  was  I  that  I  could  withstand 
God,"  he  said  in  defense. 

The  gospel  had  been  brought  to  the 
Jew  or  Israel,  and  now  was  to  be  taken 
to  the  Gentile.   It  was  for  all. 

The  Savior  finally  instructed  his 
Apostles: 

Go  ye  therefore,  and  teach  all  nations, 
baptizing  them  in  the  name  of  the  Father, 
and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
(Matt.  28:19.) 

And  through  the  Prophet  Nephi  he 

.  .  .  inviteth'  them  all  to  come  unto  him 
. . .  and  he  remembereth  the  heathen;  and  all 
are  alike  unto  God,  both  Jew  and  Gentile. 
(2  Nephi  26:33.) 

Then  see  how  the  Lord  preserved  the 
Bible  through  the  dark  ages  and  pre- 
served the  Book  of  Mormon  gold  plates 
through  the  same  barren  period  so  that 
both  of  these  holy  scriptures  might  be 
brought  by  the  Gentiles  back  to  Israel 
and  fulfil  the  saying  that  "the  first  shall 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fourth  Day 

be  last  and  the  last  shall  be  first."  (See 
Matt  19:30.) 

And  now,  Mrs.  Anonymous,  when  the 
Lord  has  made  of  all  flesh  equal;  when 
he  has  accepted  both  the  G^tiles  and 
Israel;  when  he  finds  no  difference  be- 
tween them,  who  are  we  to  find  a 
difference  and  to  exclude  from  the 
Church  and  its  activities  and  blessings 
the  lowly  Indian?  Have  you  read  the 
scriptures,  ancient  or  modern?  Have  you 
felt  the  magnanimity  of  the  Savior,  his 
kindness,  his  mercy,  his  love? 

If  the  Lord  were  to  acknowledge  a 
superior  race,  would  it  not  be  Israel, 
the  very  people  whom  you  would  spurn 
and  deprive?  Do  you  carry  in  your  veins 
as  pure  Israelitish  blood  as  those  whom 
you  criticize?  Do  you  find  any  scrip- 
tures, my  critic,  which  would  show  that 
the  Christ  would  exclude  the  Lamanite 
Israelites  from  the  waters  of  baptism, 
from  the  priesthood,  from  the  pulpit, 
or  from  the  temple?  Did  not  the  Lord 
remove  the  Amalekites,  Midianites, 
Canaanites  to  make  place  for  the  chosen 
Israel,  and  when  centuries  later  he  saw 
the  impending  destruction  of  Jerusalem 
and  the  temple,  and  when  it  was  im- 
minent that  Judah  and  Israel  were  to 
be  captured  and  exiled,  did  not  the  Lord 
send  a  righteous  few,  under  Lehi,  to 
find  and  colonize  this  American  land, 
this  choicest  land  under  heaven?  Did 
he  not  lead  and  teach  and  punish  and 
forgive  this  same  people  through  a 
thousand  hectic  years  of  varied  expe- 
rience and  did  he  not  reiterate  frequent- 
ly his  willingness  to  forgive  and  his 
eagerness  to  bless  this  very  people?  Did 
not  the  Lord  show  special  and  preferred 
interest  in  his  Israel?  Did  he  not  re- 
serve for  them  alone  his  personal  visits 
and  ministrations?  And  did  he  not 
himself  make  a  personal  visit  of  many 
days  to  his  Lehite  people  and  say  to 
them: 

Ye  are  my  disciples.  .  .  . 

And  behold,  this  is  the  land  of  your 
inheritance;  and  the  Father  hath  given  it 
unto  you. 

And  they  [the  Jews]  understood  me  not 
that  I  said  they  [the  Lehites]  shall  hear  my 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


105 


voice;  and  they  understood  me  not  that  the 
Gentiles  should  not  at  any  time  hear  my 
voice — that  I  should  not  manifest  mysefi 
unto  them  save  it  were  by  the  Holy  Ghost. 

But  behold,  ye  have  both  heard  my  voice, 
and  seen  me;  and  ye  are  my  sheep,  and  ye 
are  numbered  among  those  whom  the  Father 
hath  given  me.  (3  Nephi  15:12-13,  23-24.) 

Would  those  who  scorn  the  Indian 
and  deprive  him  of  the  blessings  re- 
member how  the  Lord  loves  his  Laman- 
ites  and  how  he  told  his  first  leaders 
in  this  dispensation  to 

.  .  .  journey  among  the  Lamanites. 
And  it  shall  be  given  thee  .  .  .  what  thou 
Shalt  do.  (D.  &  C.  28:14-15.) 

Remember  how  he  authorized  them  to 
build  up  his  Church'  "among  the 
Lamanites"  (ibid.,  30:6)  and  from  the 
later  Prophet,  John  Taylor,  who  said: 
"And  now  we  must  instruct  them 
further  and  organize  them  into  chtirches 
with  proper  presidencies,  attach  them  to 
our  stakes  and  organizations."  (The 
Gospel  Kingdom,  p.  247.) 

In  the  days  immediately  preceding  the 
coming  of  the  Lord,  even  the  Lamanite 
Prophet  Samuel  felt  the  sting  and  smart 
of  the  caustic  discriminations  when  he 
said: 

And  nowi  because  I  aih  a  Lamanite,  and 
have  spoken  unto  you  the  words  which  the 
Lord  commanded  me,  and  because  it  was 
hard  against  you,  ye  are  angry  with  me  and 
do  seek  to  destroy  me,  and  have  cast  me  out 
from  among  you.  (Helaman  14:10.) 

If  Mrs.  Anonymous  would  exclude  the 
Indian  from  the  temple,  how  could  she 
justify  the  Lord's  provision  that  they 
would  assist  in  the  building  of  the  New 
Jerusalem  with  its  temple? 

O  intolerance,  thou  art  an  ugly  crea- 
ture 1  What  crimes  have  been  com- 
mitted under  thy  influence,  what  in- 
justices imder  thy  Satanic  spell  I 

Charlotte  Gilman  wrote:  "I  ran  into 
a  prejudice  that  quite  cut  off  my  view." 
(From  Stanza  I  of  "An  Obstacle.) 

It  was  to  a  hypocritical  and  intolerant 
group  to  whom  the  Lord  gave  his  classic 
parable, 


.  .  .  unto  certain  which  trusted  in  them- 
selves that  they  were  righteous,  and  despised 
others: 

Two  men  went  up  into  the  temple  to 
pray;  the  one  a  Pharisee,  and  the  other  a 
publican. 

The  Pharisee  stood  and  prayed  thus  with 
himself,  God,  I  thank  thee,  that  I  am  not 
as  other  men  are,  extortioners,  unjust, 
adulterers,  or  even  as  this  publican. 

I  fast  twice  in  the  week,  I  give  tithes  of 
all  that  I  possess. 

And  the  publican,  standing  afar  ofif, 
would  not  lift  up  so  much  as  his  eyes  unto 
heaven,  but  smote  upon  his  breast,  saying, 
God,  be  merciful  to  me  a  sinner. 

I  tell  you,  this  man  went  down  to  his 
house  justified  rather  than  the  other:  for 
every  one  that  exalteth  himself  shall  be 
abased;  and  he  that  humbleth  himself  shall 
be  exalted.  (Luke  18:9-14.) 

If  it  be  so  wrong  for  fraternization  and 
brotherhood  with  minority  groups  and 
their  filling  Church  positions  and  pews 
and  pulpits  of  the  Lord's  Church,  why 
did  the  Apostle  Peter  maintain  so  posi- 
tively: "[God]  ...  put  no  difference 
Ijetween  us  and  them."  (Acts  15:8-9.) 

And,  "What  God  hath  cleansed,  that 
call  not  thou  common."  (Ibid.,  11:9.) 

Of  a  truth  I  perceive  that  God  is  no 
respecter  of  persons: 

But  in  every  nation  he  that  feareth  him, 
and  worketh  righteousness,  is  accepted  with 
him.  (Ibid.,  10:34-35.) 

Did  not  the  Lord  know  that  in  these 
times  there  would  be  many  duplicates 
of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Anonymous  who  might 
need  the  warning  which  he  gave  through 
his  Prophet  Moroni:  "...  Who  will 
despise  the  works  of  the  Lord?  Who 
will  despise  the  children  of  Christ?  Be- 
hold, all  ye  who  are  despisers  of  the 
works  of  the  Lord."  (Mormon  9:26.) 

The  Prophet  Mormon  wrote: 

Yea,  wo  unto  him  that  shall  deny  the 
revelations  of  the  Lord.  ... 

Yea,  and  ye  need  not  any  longer  hiss, 
nor  spurn,  nor  make  game  of  the  Jews, 
nor  any  of  the  remnant  of  the  House  of 
Israel;  for  behold,  the  Lord  remembereth 
his  covenant  unto  them  .  .  .  according  to 
that  which  he  hath  sworn.  (3  Nephi  29:6, 
8.) 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Tuesday^  April  6 

It  is  most  evident  that  all  of  the  many 
prejudiced  ones  fail  to  catch  the  spirit 
of  the  gospel  and  the  teachings  of  the 
Christ  as  they  hiss  and  spurn  and  scoff 
and  criticize.  The  Lord  said  in 
Matthew: 

Judge  not,  that  ye  be  not  judged. 

For  with  what  judgment  ye  judge,  ye 
shall  be  judged:  .  .  . 

And  why  beholdest  thou  the  mote  that 
is  in  thy  brother's  eye,  but  considerest  not 
the  beam  that  is  in  thine  own  eye? 

Thou  hypocrite,  first  cast  out  the  beam 
out  of  thine  own  eye;  and  then  shaft  thou 
see  clearly  to  cast  out  the  mote  out  of  thy 
brother's  eye.  (Matt.  7:1-5.) 

And  again,  the  Lord  said  through 
Paul: 

Therefore  thou  art  inexcusable,  O  man, 
whosoever  thou  art  that  judgest:  for  where- 
in thou  judgest  another,  thou  condemnest 
thyself;  .  .  . 

And  thinkest  thou  this,  O  man  .  .  .  that 
thou  shalt  escape  the  judgment  of  God? 
(Roman  2:1,  3.) 

And  again,  through  Moroni: 

For  behold,  the  same  that  judgeth  rashly 
shall  be  judged  rashly  again;  ...  he  that 
smiteth  shall  be  smitten  again,  of  the  Lord. 
(Mormon  8:19.) 

I  remember  that  the  Lord  was  long- 
suffering  with  ancient  Israel.  For  a 
long  time  he  endured  their  pettiness, 
listened  to  their  eternal  complaining, 
revolted  at  their  filthiness,  groaned  at 
their  idolatries  and  their  adulteries,  and 
wept  at  their  faithlessness;  and  yet 
finally  forgave  them  and  led  the  rising 
generation  of  them  into  the  promised 
land.  They  had  been  the  victims  of 
four  centuries  of  destructive  background 
of  servitude  but  consistent  now  with 
their  continued  faithfulness,  every  door 
was  opened  to  them  toward  immortality 
and  eternal  life. 

Here  he  has  the  Indian  or  Lamanite, 
with  a  background  of  twenty-five  cen- 
turies of  superstition,  degradation,  idol- 
atry, and  indolence.  He  has  loathed 
their  wickedness,  chastised  them, 
brought  the  Gentiles  to  them  for  nurs- 
ing fathers  and  mothers,  and  (it  would 
seem)  has  finally  forgiven  them.  Their 


Fourth  Day 

sufferings  have  been  sore,  their  humilia- 
tion complete,  their  punishment  severe 
and  long,  their  heartaches  many,  and 
their  opportunities  reduced.  Has  he 
not  now  forgiven  them  and  accepted 
them?  Can  we  not  now  forgive  and 
accept  them?  Ancient  Israel  was  given 
forty  years.  Can  we  not  allow  at  least 
forty  years  of  patient  and  intensive 
proselyting  and  organizing  among 
modern  Israel  before  we  judge  too 
harshly? 

What  a  monster  is  prejudice!  It 
means  pre-judging.  How  many  of  us 
are  guilty  of  it?  Often  we  think  our- 
selves free  of  its  destructive  force,  but 
we  need  only  to  test  ourselves.  Our 
expressions,  our  voice  tones,  our  move- 
ments, our  thoughts  betray  us.  We  are 
often  so  willing  that  others  make  the 
contacts,  do  the  proselyting,  have  the 
associations.  Until  we  project  ourselves 
into  the  very  situation,  we  little  realize 
our  bias  and  our  prejudice. 

Why  will  we,  the  prospered,  the 
blessed,  hiss?  When,  oh,  when,  will  we 
cease  to  spurn?  When  will  we  who 
think  we  are  free  of  bias,  purge  from 
our  souls  the  sometimes  unconscious 
prejudice  we  possess?  When  will  we 
end  our  making  game  of  these  wander- 
ers? When  will  we  cease  throwing  our 
peimies  disdainfully  to  them  at  the 
gate? 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Anonymous:  I  present 
to  you  a  people  who,  according  to 
prophecies,  have  been  scattered  and 
driven,  defrauded  and  deprived,  who 
are  a  "branch  of  the  tree  of  Israel — ^lost 
from  its  body — ^wanderers  in  a  strange 
land"— their  own  land.  I  give  you  na- 
tions who  have  gone  through  the  deep 
waters  of  the  rivers  of  sorrow  and 
anguish  and  pain;  a  people  who  have 
had  visited  upon  their  heads  the  sins 
of  their  fathers  not  tinto  the  third  and 
fourth  generation  but  through  a  hun- 
dred generations.  I  bring  to  you  a 
multitude  who  have  asked  for  bread 
and  have  received  a  stone  and  who  have 
asked  for  fish  and  have  been  given  a 
serpent.  (See  3  Nephi  14:9-10.) 

This  people  ask  not  for  your  distant, 
faraway  sympathy,  your  haughty  dis- 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


107 


dain,  your  despicable  contempt,  your 
supercilious  scorn,  your  turned-up  nose, 
your  scathing  snobbery,  your  arrogant 
scoffing,  nor  your  cold,  calculating  toler- 
ance. It  is  a  people  who,  unable  to  raise 
themselves  by  their  own  bootstraps,  call 
for  assistance  from  those  who  can  push 
and  lift  and  open  doors.  It  is  a  peo- 
ple who  pray  for  mercy,  ask  forgive- 
ness, beg  for  membership  in  the  king- 
dom with  its  opportunities  to  learn  and 
do.  It  is  a  good  folk  who  ask  for  fra- 
ternity, a  handclasp  of  friendship,  a 
word  of  encouragement;  it  is  a  group  of 
nations  who  cry  for  warm  acceptance 
and  sincere  brotherhood.  I  give  you  a 
chosen  race,  an  affectionate  and  warm- 
hearted people,  a  responsive  but  timid 
and  frightened  folk,  a  simple  group 
with  childlike  faith.  I  point  you  to  a 
people  in  whose  veins  flows  the  blood 
of  prophets  and  martyrs;  a  people  who 
have  intelligence  and  capacity  to  climb 
to  former  heights  but  who  need  the  vi- 
sion and  the  opportunity  and  the  as- 
sistance of  the  nursing  parents. 

These  people  can  rise  to  the  loftiness 
of  their  fathers  when  opportunity  has 
knocked  at  their  door  a  few  generations. 
If  we  fully  help  them,  they  can  eventual- 
ly soar  to  greatness.  The  ungerminated 
seeds  are  waiting  for  the  rains  of  kind- 
ness and  opportunity;  the  sunshine  of 
gospel  truth;  the  cultivation  through  the 
Church  program  of  training  and  activity, 
and  the  seeds  will  come  to  life,  and 
the  harvest  will  be  fabulous,  for  the 
Lord  has  promised  it  repeatedly. 

0  ye,  who  hiss  and  spurn,  despise  and 
scoff,  who  condemn  and  reject,  and 
who  ill  your  haughty  pride  place  your- 
selves above  and  superior  to  these 
Nephite-Lamanites:  I  pray  you  to  not 
despise  them  until  you  are  able  to 
equal  their  faraway  folk  who  had  such 
faith  and  fortitude  and  strength — ^until 
you  have  that  faith  to  bum  at  the  stake 
with  the  Prophet  Abinadi.  It  is  pos- 
sible that  the  prophet's  children  may  be 
among  us.  Some  of  them  could  be 
now  called  Lagunas  or  Shoshones. 

1  beg  of  you,  do  not  disparage  the 
Lamanite-Nephites  unless  you,  too,  have 
the  devoutness  and  strength  to  abandon 


public  office  to  do  missionary  work 
among  a  despised  people  and  this  with- 
out compensation,  as  did  the  four  sons 
of  Mosiah;  until  you  too  can  walk 
away  from  the  ease  and  luxury  and 
the  emoluments  and  power  of  king- 
ship to  hunger  and  thirst,  to  be  perse- 
cuted, imprisoned,  and  beaten  for  four- 
teen years  of  proselyting  endeavor  as 
did  their  people,  Ammon  and  his  broth- 
ers, and  as  did  the  great  Nephi  who 
gave  up  the  judgeship  to  proselyte.  Some 
of  their  descendants  also  could  be  among 
us.  Their  seed  could  be  called  Samoans 
or  Maoris. 

I  ask  you:  Do  not  scoff  and  ignore 
these  Nephite-Lamanites  unless  you  can 
equal  their  forebears  in  greatness  and 
until  you  can  kneel  with  those  thousands 
of  Ammonite  Saints  in  the  sand  on  the 
field  of  battle  while  they  sang  songs  of 
praise  as  their  very  lives  were  being 
snuffed  out  by  their  enemies.  Could 
you  look  heavenward,  smiling  and  sing- 
ing, while  the  bloodthirsty  demons 
slashed  your  body  with  sword  and 
scimitar?  Perhaps  the  children  of  the 
Ammonites  are  with  us.  They  could  be 
called  Zunis  or  Hopis. 

Do  not  prate  your  power  of  speech 
or  your  fearlessness  unless  you  too  could 
stand  with  the  Prophet  Samuel  on  the 
city  wall,  dodging  stones  and  spears 
and  arrows  while  trying  to  preach  the 
gospel  of  salvation.  The  very  de- 
scendants of  this  great  prophet  are  with 
us.  They  may  be  Navajos  or  Cherokees. 

I  ask  you  who  sneer:  Are  you  better 
mothers  than  those  of  the  Ammonites? 
Those  Lamanite  women  trained  their 
sons  in  faith  to  the  extent  that  they 
fought  many  battles  and  came  home 
clean,  full  of  faith.  Are  you  training 
your  sons  as  did  they?  Do  your  sons 
resist  evil,  grow  to  greatness,  receive 
manifestations  from  the  Lord?  Do  your 
sons  praise  your  names  and  say,  "We 
knew  our  mothers  knew  it.  We  are 
blessed  of  the  Lord  because  we  live  his 
commandments  as  our  mothers  taught 
us."  The  posterity  of  these  unparalleled 
mothers  and  these  faithful  sons  may  be 
among  us  and  may  be  called  Mayas  or 
Pimas. 


108 

Tuesday,  April  6 

I  urge  you:  Do  not  mock  in  derision 
until  and  unless  you,  too,  have  children 
loved  and  fondled  by  the  Lord  of  crea- 
tion, children  who  are  encircled  about 
with  fire  and  ministered  unto  by  angels 
— children  who  prophesy  tutiutterable 
things.  Their  childrai  could  be  the 
Piutes  or  Mohicans  among  us. 

Do  not  condemn  and  make  game  of 
these  good  Lamanite-Nephites  until  you 
have  produced  a  superior  people  who 
compare  with  their  ancestors  who  lived 
for  nearly  three  centtiries  in  peace  and 
righteousness.  Has  our  own  nation  ever 
exceeded  a  quarter  century  without  war 
and  commotion? 

Let  us  not  spurn  these  Nephite- 
Lamanites  until  we  are  assured  that 
we,  too,  have  the  love  of  the  Savior  as 
did  their  people  when  the  Lord  stood 
in  their  midst  and  ordained  them  with 
his  own  hands,  blessed  them  with  his 
own  voice,  forgave  them  with  his  own 
great  heart,  broke  the  bread,  poured 
the  wine,  and  gave  the  sacrament  him- 
self to  these  upright  folk;  until  we  shall 
have  the  privilege  of  feeling  the  prints 
of  the  nails  in  his  hands  and  feet,  and 
the  spear  wound  in  his  side. 

And  in  these  living  descendants  are 
all  the  seeds  of  faith  and  growth  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fourth  Day 

development,  of  honor  and  integrity 
and  greatness.  They  wait  but  for  op- 
portunity, encouragement,  and  brother- 
liness;  and  these  will  be  redeemed,  will 
rise  and  will  become  a  blessed  people. 
God  has  said  it. 

I  love  the  Lamanites,  the  Indians,  and 
all  their  cousins.  I  expect  to  see  them 
rise  and  fulfil  their  destiny.  I  know  that 
the  prophecies  concerning  them  will  all 
be  fulfilled. 

May  God  bless  the  Lamanite-Nephite 
peoples,  stir  their  hearts;  bless  the  mis- 
sionaries that  are  sent  unto  them;  and 
help  us,  their  nursing  parents.  And  may 
God  speed  the  day  of  their  total  de- 
liverance. This  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  speaker  to  whom  we  have  just 
listened  is  Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball, 
of  the  Covincil  of  the  Twelve.  For  the 
sustaining  vote  of  this  General  Confer- 
ence, there  will  now  be  presented  the 
General  Authorities,  the  General  Offi- 
cers, and  the  General  Auxiliary  Officers 
of  the  Church.  President  J.  Reuben 
Clark,  Jr.,  will  present  these  officers. 


President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency, 
presented  for  the  vote  of  the  people  the  General  Authorities,  General  Officers,  and 
General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church  as  follows,  and  they  were  unanimously 
sustained  by  those  present. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  First  Presidency 
David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Stephen  L  Richards,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Delbert  L.  Stapley 

Harold  B.  Lee  Marion  G.  Romney 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  LeGrand  Richards 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Mark  E.  Petersen  Richard  L.  Evans 

Henry  D.  Moyle  George  Q.  Morris 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED  109 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  The  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Patriarch 
to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revel  ators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Thomas  E.  McKay  John  Longden 

CliEFord  E.  Young  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Alma  Sonne  Sterling  W.  Sill 

El  Ray  L.  Christiansen 

Trustee-in-Trust 
David  O.  McKay 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Milton  R.  Hunter 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Oscar  A.  Kirkham  Marion  D.  Hanks 

Seymour  Dilworth  Young 

Presiding  Bishopric 

Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Presiding  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  First  Counselor 
Carl  W.  Buehner,  Second  Counselor 

Church  Board  of  Education 

David  O.  McKay  Henry  D.  Moyle 

Stephen  L  Richards  Delbert  L.  Stapley 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Marion  G.  Romney 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  LeGrand  Richards 

Harold  B.  Lee  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Richard  L.  Evans 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  George  Q.  Morris 
Mark  E.  Petersen 

Administrator,  Board  of  Education 

Ernest  L.  Wilkinson 

Church  Auditing  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams 
George  S.  Spencer 
Harold  H.  Bennett 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


fourth  Day 


Organists 


Alexander  Schreiner 


Frank  W.  Asper 


Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 
CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 


Advisers 


Henry  D.  Moyle 
Delbert  L.  Stapley 
Marion  G.  Romney 
LeGrand  Richards 
Thomas  E.  McKay 
Clifford  E.  Young 


Harold  B.  Lee 


El  Ray  L.  Christiansen 
John  Longden 
Antoine  R.  Ivins 


Oscar  A.  Kirkham 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 
Carl  W.  Buehner 


Alma  Sonne 

and  the  General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 


General  Church  Welfare  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 

Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 


GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Velma  Nebeker  Simonsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 
David  Lawrence  McKay,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
L5Tin  S.  Richards,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Elbert  R.  Curtis,  General  Superintendent 
A.  Walter  Stevenson,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
David  S.  King,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Bertha  S.  Reader,  President 
Emily  H.  Bennett,  First  Counselor 
LaRue  C.  Longden,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


Paul  C.  Child 
T.  C.  Stayner 
Mark  B.  Garff 


W.  T.  Lawrence 
Lorenzo  H.  Hatch 
Walter  Dansie 
LeRoy  A.  Wirthlin 
Walter  Stover 


Leonard  E.  Adams 
J.  Leonard  Love 


Relief  Society 


Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


HI 


Primary  Association 

LaVem  W.  Parmley,  President 
Arta  M.  Hale,  First  Counselor 
Leone  W.  Doxey,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constitutedv 


President  Clark: 

President  McKay,  the  voting  seemed 
to  be  unanimous  in  the  affirmative. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Morris,  will  you  take  your 
place,  please.    Elder  Sill,  in  the  con- 


gregation, will  please  come  forward  and 
take  his  place  among  the  Assistants. 

We  have  just  heard  presented  the 
General  AuthoritieSj  General  Officers, 
and  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the 
Church  for  the  sustaining  vote  of  the 
General  Conference,  and  all  voting  has 
been  in  the  affirmative,  unanimously. 

Our  next  speaker  will  be  Elder  Alma 
Soime,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Y  BRETHREN  AND  SISTERS:  I 

am  very  happy  about  the 
appointment  of  Elder 
George  Q.  Morris  as  a 
member  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve.  It  has  been 
a  great  joy  and  certainly  a  great  pleasure 
for  me  to  have  been  closely  associated 
with  him  during  the  past  few  years. 
He  is  a  man  of  faith,  a  man  of  splendid 
leadership,  who  is  solid  and  sound  in 
the  doctrines  of  the  Church,  and  who 
will  be  of  inestimable  help  to  the 
brethren  who  devise  the  policy  of  this 
great  Church  of  which  we  are  members. 

God  bless  him  in  this  great  responsi- 
bility and  give  him  the  strength  to  do 
the  work  which  will  be  required  at  his 
hands. 

I  have  been  abundantly  blessed,  as 
you  have,  by  the  spiritual  uplift  which 
has  come  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  dur- 
ing this  conference.  This  uplift  has 
emanated  from  the  singing  of  the  various 
choirs,  from  the  fervent  testimonies  of 
the  Lord's  servants  who  have  spoken, 
through  the  timely  admonitions,  and 
through  the  clarifying  demonstrations 
of  activities  particularly  as  they  have 
pertained  to  the  missionary  work  of 
the  Church.    I  believe  that  the  para- 


mount obligation  resting  upon  the 
Church  today  is  to  proclaim  the  divine 
mission  of  Jesus  Christ.  His  Church, 
while  standing  practically  alone  amongst 
all  the  Christian  churches,  is  boldly 
declaring  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the 
Redeemer  of  mankind. 

We  must  not  fail  in  this  very  definite 
responsibility.  There  are  many  among 
the  religious  teachers  of  the  world  who 
are  making  compromises  in  this  respect. 
It  is  not  long  since  Colonel  Ingersoll, 
the  gifted  agnostic,  said,  "For  the  man 
Jesus  I  have  the  highest  admiration. 
I  gladly  pay  to  him  the  homage  of  my 
tears.  But  for  Jesus  as  the  Son  of  God, 
I  will  have  nothing  to  do  with  him." 
I  regret  to  say  that  many  of  the  modern 
religious  teachers  have  adopted  the  view 
expressed  by  this  well-known  unbeliever. 
Not  long  since  I  read  again  the  Book 
of  Mormon  and  found  that  on  almost 
every  page  Jesus  is  declared  to  be  the 
Son  of  God  and  the  Redeemer  and 
Savior  of  the  world.  This  may  also  be 
said  of  the  revelations  given  to  the 
Church  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  as  recorded  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants. 

What  is  there  left,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  if  you  eliminate  Jesus  as  the  Son 


112 

Tuesday,  AprU  6 

of  God?  It  is  the  foundation  of  our 
faith.  Surely,  no  Church  that  is  in- 
strumental in  destroying  Christ's  divinity 
has  any  right  to  be  called  a  Christian 
church. 

A  few  years  ago,  H.  G.  Wells  was 
invited  to  write  down  the  names  of  six 
men  who  stood,  as  it  were,  rai  the 
comers  of  history.  He  did  not  h^itate 
in  writing  the  first  name,  which  was 
Jesus  of  Nazareth,  and  then  as  if  he 
wanted  to  apologize,  he  quickly  re- 
marked, "I  am  not  a  Christian.  I  am 
a  writer  of  history,"  implying  no  doubt, 
that  he  had  not  accepted  the  deityship 
of  Jesus  Christ. 

So  the  mission  is  resting  upon  you 
and  me  and  the  missionaries  of  the 
Church  to  proclaim  in  our  messages  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living 
God,  and  that  he  did  in  reality  rise 
from  the  dead  and  appeared  to  his 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fourth  Day 

friends  and  disciples,  and  proved  beyond 
any  question  of  a  doubt,  that  death  is 
not  the  end,  and  that  we  are  racpected 
to  obey  his  commandments  which  he 
has  given  .  through,  holy  men,  called 
prophets. 

May  we  be  qualified  and  anxious  to 
discharge  this  important  responsibility, 
I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  the 
Lord.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner,  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric,  will  be  our  next 
speaker.  He  to  whom  we  have  just  lis- 
tened, is  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve. 

Bishop  Buehner  will  be  followed  by 
Marlon  D.  Hanks,  of  the  First  Coimcil 
of  Seventy. 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


DEAR  brethren  and  sis- 
i    -  ters:  Each  general  confer- 

ence  seems  to  be  more 

j inspiring  than  the  last, 
and  this  is  certainly  no 
exception,  from  the  out- 
standing priesthood  meeting  last  Sat- 
urday evening  to  and  including  each 
session  to  this  very  moment. 

I  was  grateful  to  raise  my  hand  this 
morning  and  sustain  these  great  men 
who  comprise  the  leadership  of  the 
Church.  I  welcome  with  all  my  heart 
Elder  George  Q.  Morris,  whom  I  have 
learned  to  love  over  the  years,  as  the 
new  member  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.  I  also  wish  to  extend  my  sup- 
port and  sincere  best  wishes  to  Elder 
Sterling  W.  Sill  whom  I  have  also 
known  for  many  years  and  who  I  am 
sure  will  be  a  great  strength  to  the 
Church. 

My  message  this  morning  has  to  -do 
with  overweight  and  underweight.  We 
are  a  great  people  to  check  up  on  each 
other.   We  have  our  planSj  our  sched- 


ules, our  programs,  and  our  organiza- 
tions. I  should  like  to  suggest  this 
morning  that  it  might  be  a  good  idea 
to  check  up  a  little  on  ourselves.  I 
know  the  first  look  I  have  of  myself  as 
I  peek  in  the  mirror  early  in  the  morn- 
ing is  really  quite  frightening,  and  then 
when  I  realize  what  the  next  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes  can  do  with  the  aid 
of  a  few  common  implements  we  find 
in  the  bathroom,  such  as  a  comb  and 
brush  (for  those  who  need  it),  a  razor, 
washcloth,  toothbrush,  etc.,  for  the  men; 
and  for  the  sisters,  some  cold  cream,  a 
little  rouge,  face  powder,  and  lipstick, 
the  transformation  brings  confidence  and 
courage  to  face  the  problems  of  another 
day.  Then  when  you  arrive  at  work, 
and  someone  greets  you  by  saying,  "Good 
morning,  you  look  fine,"  you  are  so 
enthusiastic  that  you  can  conquer  any- 
thing that  comes  your  way.  The  day 
seems  cheerful  and  bright. 

I  appreciate  the  fact  that  some  of  us 
have  physical  difficulties  that  require  a 
doctor's  check-up,  and  usually  after  a 


BISHOP  CARL 

good  physical  check-up,  we  are  informed 
that  we  have  high  blood  pressure  and 
that  we  are  overweight  and  should 
reduce.  This  could  easily  be  one  of 
my  difficulties.  I  have  been  support- 
ing Brother  Benson  in  his  great  plan 
of  disposing  of  government  surpluses 
and  assisting  him  every  way  possible  in 
that  respect  I  am  also  thoroughly 
converted  to  the  welfare  program  in 
which  we  are  admonished  to  put  away 
a  year's  supply.  No  one  has  ever  mdi- 
cated  that  we  should  carry  {ground  a 
half  a  year  of  it  and  put  the  other  half 
year's  supply  in  the  basement;  but  many 
of  us  do  it  just  that  way.  I  am  sure 
our  doctor  would  tell  us  that  it  is  well 
to  be  converted  to  these  great  programs 
but  that  we  would  be  healthier  and 
much  better  off  if  we  would  put  the 
full  year's  supply  in  the  basement  and 
get  our  blood  pressure  down. 

Along  with  these  physical  habits  and 
check-ups,  I  would  like  to  suggest  that 
we  have  a  little  spiritual  chedk-up,  and 
ask  ourselves  a  few  simple  questions.  I 
am  appreciating,  too,  a  great  deal  more 
the  value  of  visual  aids  as  we  have 
observed  them  during  this  conference, 
and  would  like  to  suggest  that  we  make 
a  little  chart,  one  that  can  be  marked, 
and  see  just  how  good  we  are.  In  filling 
in  such  a  chart,  we  might  find  some 
blank  spaces.  In  other  words,  we  might 
find  that  we  are  spiritually  a  little  im- 
derweight.  We  might  even  be  light- 
weights. Some  of  us  might  even  be 
featherweights.  A  look  at  such  a  chart 
will  indicate  in  some  degree  our  spiritual 
activity  and  give  us  a  check-up  in  that 
respect.  May  I  suggest  that  we  ask  our- 
selves some  of  these  questions: 

Do  I  sustain  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church? 

Do  I  go  to  sacrament  meeting  and 
renew  my  covenants  with  my  heavenly 
Father? 

Do  I  have  family  prayer  in  my  home? 

Do  I  have  The  Improvement  Era 
in  my  home? 

Do  I  study  the  gospel  for  fifteen  min- 
utes each  day? 

Do  I  have  home  evening? 
.  Do  I  pay  my  ward  maintenance? 


W.  BUEHNER  113 

Do  I  offer  assistance  to  my  bishop? 

Do  I  do  something  to  make  my  home 
happier? 

Ain  I  a  good  neighbor? 

Do  I  fast  each  month  and  pay  my  fast 
offering  to  the  bishop? 

Do  I  contribute  to  the  stake  and 
ward  building  program? 

Do  I  expose  my  neighbor  to  the 
gospel? 

Do  I  pay  my  debts  and  live  within 
my  means? 

Am  I  honest  with  the  Lord  in  the 
payment  of  my  tithes,  and  do  I  go  to 
tithing  settlement? 

Do  I  do  my  ward  teaching? 

Do  I  participate  in  the  welfare  pro- 
gram? 

Am  I  doing  my  research  and  temple 
work? 

Am  I  taking  advantage  of  the  auxili- 
aries: the  Relief  Society,  the  Mutual, 
Sunday  School,  and  Primary? 

We  might  add  to  this  list  many  other 
questions.  If  we  could  transfer  some 
of  the  surplus  weight  we  carry  around 
in  our  physical  bodies  and  add  that 
weight  to  our  spiritual  lives  (and  I  do 
not  think  we  will  ever  become  over- 
weight in  this  respect),  we  will  in- 
crease our  weight  and  become  better 
able  to  fulfil  the  responsibilities  and 
obligations  that  the  Lord  expects  of  us 
and  to  carry  out  the  coimsel  of  the 
leadership  of  the  Church. 

We  are  all  interested  in  security.  I 
tell  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  no 

freater  security  can  come  to  any  mem- 
er  of  the  Church  than  to  keep  the 
commandments  of  our  heavenly  Father, 
especially  those  of  tithing,  fast  offering, 
and  aiding  the  welfare  program.  When 
I  think  of  the  great  blessings  promised 
to  the  membership  of  the  Church  from 
the  payment  of  an  honest  tithing,  I  feel 
there  is  not  a  member  of  the  Church 
who  can  afford  not  to  pay  his  tithiag. 
Likewise,  great  blessings  come  from  fast- 
ing and  prayer. 

I  remember  not  long  ago  being  in  a 
stake  where  I  had  given  a  little  talk  on 
the  value  of  fasting  and  paying  fast 
offerings.   Near  the  end  of  the  meet- 


114 

Tuesday,  April  6 

ing,  one  of  the  brethren  said,  "Brother 
Buehner,  I  believe  all  you  have  said 
but  would  like  to  ask  this  question: 
What  if  after  the  fasting  period  is 
over  you  are  so  hungry  that  you  don't 
only  eat  the  meal  you  are  entitled  to 
but  you  literally  eat  the  two  meals  you 
fasted?"  I  could  not  help  feeling  that 
this  is  very  typical  of  us  human  beings. 
We  are  not  going  to  give  away  any- 
thing that  we  can  reclaim.  I  made 
these  observations  at  the  time.  First, 
my  advice  would  be  that  we  should 
not  eat  three  meals  at  the  same  time  and 
undo  the  wonderful  blessing  that  has 
come  from  fasting,  but  more  important 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fourth  Day 

than  this,  I  indicated,  "I  do  not  care 
how  much  you  eat  after  the  twenty- 
four-hour  fasting  period  is  over,  just 
see  that  you  do  not  eat  the  Lord's  two 
meals."  I  feel  sure  this  is  good  advice. 
The  Lord  has  promised  wonderful 
blessings  from  keeping  the  command- 
ment of  the  fast. 

I  feel  I  should  not  take  more  time.  I 
love  this  Church.  I  love  its  devoted 
leadership.  I  admire  and  love  you 
people.  The  world  looks  bright  and 
happy  to  me.  I  am  glad  to  be  alive, 
and  sincerely  pray  that  the  Lord  will 
bless  each  and  every  one  of  you,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


REMEMBER  a  conference  years 
ago  in  which  someone  fol- 
lowing Bishop  Richards  spoke 
of  the  still  small  voice.  I 
may  fit  that  description  today 
after  this  wonderful  and 
energetic  and  lovely  message  from  Bish- 
op Buehner. 

My  heart  is  full  of  gratitude  today 
for  many  things.  I  am  very  grateful 
for  the  rain,  and  for  the  lovely  weather 
which  preceded  it,  each  of  which  is  a 
blessing  suited  to  our  needs.  I  am  very 
grateful  that  we  may  meet  in  this 
marvelous  old  building.  I  am  grateful 
for  the  privilege,  of  missionary  service 
on  these  grounds  for  the  past  six  years. 
One  cannot  have  intimate  acquaintance 
with  these  buildings  day  after  day  and 
not  acquire  in  his  soul  an  appreciation 
for  them  and  for  those  who  built  them. 

These  buildings  attract  others,  in  ad- 
dition to  us.  I  remember  the  guide  totir 
which  was  joined  by  a  sweet  woman 
from  an  eastern  city.  As  we  left  this 
building  she,  who  had  come  with 
some  pre-conceived  negative  notions 
about  Mormonism  but  had  been  touched 
by  what  she  heard  and  felt  here,  turned 
to  her  husband  and  almost  reverentially 
and  with  a  tear  in  her  eye  said  to  him, 
but  still  with  her  notions,  "Georgei 


isn't  it  marvelous  what  ignorant  people 
can  do?" 

Well,  it  has  been  a  great  blessing 
these  years  to  be  able  to  tell  such  good 
people,  and  many  thousands  like  them, 
that  the  people  who  did  the  work  which 
we  enjoy  here  today  and  each  day,  were 
not  ignorant.  They  were  people  of 
courage  and  faith  and  dignity  and  initia- 
tive and  integrity,  who  were  always 
willing  to  give  up  conveniences  and 
comforts  but  never  their  convictions; 
they  were  not  ignorant  people. 

It  has  been  a  great  privilege  also  to 
know,  as  we  have  learned  to  love 
these  buildings  and  those  who  built 
them,  something  of  other  monuments 
which  they  left  us,  not  so  physically 
tangible,  but  infinitely  more  important. 
Last  night  as  I  walked  through  these 
grounds  at  a  late  hour — and  I  make  a 
habit  of  that,  I  commend  it  to  you,  for 
these  are  beautiful  and  thoughtful  and 
wonderful  hours,  in  the  early  morning 
and  late  evening — thought  of  the 
words  reported  to  be  inscribed  on  the 
tombstone  of  Sir  Christopher  Wren,  the 
great  British  architect  and  builder.  It 
is  said  that  there  is  written  on  the  tomb 
of  this  man  who  built  more  than  fifty 
chapels  in  London,  including  St.  Paul's, 
and  was  one  of  the  great  architects  of 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 


115 


his  day,  these  words:  "If  you  seek  his 
monument,  look  around  you." 

I  suggest  to  you  that  as  Latter-day 
Saints  it  isn't  very  difficuh  to  look 
around  us  and  see  the  monuments  left 
by  those  who  worked  here  so  well  and 
courageously,  and  with  such  integrity, 
so  long  ago.  In  the  moment  or  two 
available,  may  I  suggest  two  or  three 
of  these  other  monuments  which  they 
made  available  to  us:  the  monumental 
blessing,  for  instance,  of  truth  and 
testimony,  of  spiritual  knowledge,  of 
freedom  from  the  sins  of  the  world;  the 
monumental  heritage  of  possibility  for 
personal  union  with  God,  for  peace  in 
this  life,  and  eternal  life  in  the  world 
to  come;  the  monumental  gift  of  great 
books  of  scripture,  in  which  are  written 
not  only  the  lessons  of  life,  but  the 
great  revelations  of  God  to  men.  And 
with  these  and  all  the  other  monuments, 
they  left  us  the  monument  of  work, 
which  they  were  willing  and  able  to 
perform.    O  how  we  need  to  leam  it. 

With  a  knowledge  of  these  monu- 
ments they  dedicated  to  us,  there  comes 
the  sober  second  thought  expressed  well 
by  Goethe,  the  great  German  poet- 
philosopher,  who  said:  "What  from 
your  fathers'  heritage  is  lent,  earn  it 
anew  to  really  possess  it,"  which  is  to 
say  that  while  these  great  blessings  of 
montimental  value  come  to  us  from  our 
pioneer  forebears,  they  are  of  such  a 
nature  that  they  may  be  really  pos- 
sessed only  by  mm  or  her  who  is  will- 
ing to  really  earn  and  merit  them. 

There  was  the  day,  and  I  recall  it  with 
pleasure,  when  a  man  came  here,  a 
man  from  the  govenmient  of  Israeli,  in 
fact  he  was  a  ministerial  official  of  that 
nation.  It  happened  to  be  late  in  the 
evening,  and  there  weren't  many  people 
around,  and  I  had  a  casual  and  very 
pleasant  talk  with  hiin.  He  was  a  jolly 
fellow  of  the  kind  Brother  Buehner  has 
been  talking  about,  a  little  bit  corpulent 
and  pleasaht  and  hxunorous.  He  was 
a  Jew  of  intelligence,  with  rabbinical 
training  in  fact.  He  asked  many  ques- 
tions of  interest  about  us  and  our  faith, 
and  I  had  the  privilege  of  telling  him  as 
best  I  could  of  the  great  truths,  monu- 


mental truths,  that  had  come  to  us  from 
God  through  our  forebears.  He  invited 
conversation  about  our  relationship, 
him  and  me,  and  I  told  him  we  were 
cousins  in  a  real  sense,  that  we  both 
came  from  the  family  of  Israel,  and  I 
identified  myself  as  being  of  the  lineage 
of  Ephraim.  He  leaned  back,  gasped, 
and  said,  "Say  again."  And  so  we 
began  to  repeat,  "Through  Abraham, 
Isaac,  Jacob,  and  through  Joseph  to 
Ephraim,  came  the  covenant  blessings; 
many  of  us  are  of  Ephraim." 

"Well,"  he  said,  "I  came  to  America 
to  learn  about  agriculture.  I  came  to 
Utah  to  learn  about  irrigation.  I  ex- 
pected to  learn  many  interesting  things, 
but  I  never  expected  to  find  the  lost  sons 
of  Ephraim." 

He  went  away.  He  came  back  in  the 
morning.  He  said,  "Tell  me  again." 
So  we  told  him,  "From  God  to  Abra- 
ham, Isaac,  Jacob,  and  through  Joseph 
to  Ephraim  come  the  birthright  bless- 
ings." And  we  talked  for  some  time, 
identifying  his  progenitors,  his  forebears, 
with  ours,  and  he  left  figuratively,  al- 
most literally,  holding  his  head  in  his 
hands  with  what  he  had  heard.  We 
have  heard  from  him  several  times 
since,  he  bearing  testimony  in  his  own 
way  of  this,  to  him,  new  and  marvelous 
story.  And  I  thought  how  grateful  I  am 
for  the  monumental  link  left  me  which 
connects  me  with  all  dispensations  past, 
which  tells  me  who  I  am,  whence  I 
came,  and  what  my  destiny  might  be. 

I  am  grateful  for  many  other  monu- 
mental truths.  If  it  were  feasible  we 
might  show  you  a  file,  full  of  letters 
from  people  of  education,  wealth,  power, 
prominence,  good  character,  reiterating, 
each  of  them  in  his  own  words,  the 
simple  story  one  of  them  told  as  he 
wrote,  "I  found  in  one  hour  on  these 
grounds  among  your  people  more  peace 
and  faith  and  something  to  hang  to 
than  I  had  ever  known  before."  Well, 
these  are  monumental  blessings,  but 
they  come  to  us  only  as  we  individually 
earn  them,  which  is  the  only  manner 
in  which  we  might  really  possess  them. 

May  I  suggest  to  you,  as  I  conclude, 
one  other  little  item  which  I  think  will 


116 

Tuesday,  April  6 

be  of  interest.  I  mentioned  the  g^eat 
scriptures,  these  books  of  truth  and 
revelation,  which  God  has  given  us. 
These  too  must  be  individually  earned 
to  be  possessed.  It  would  thrill  you, 
and  in  a  sense  make  you  chagrined,  as 
it  has  me,  to  learn  the  reaction  of  many 
great  and  good  people  to  these  scrip- 
tures. Let  me  read  you  two  lines  from 
two  letters  from  a  certain  doctor  from 
Tel-Aviv.  He  had  had  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  He  said,  "The  first  reading 
has  made  this  material  precious  for  me 
in  another  sense.  It  deals  with  many 
problems  occupying  me,  as  every  man 
concerned  with  his  and  mankind's 
destiny."  And  he  writes  a  little  later, 
"I  would  like  to  add  that  I  have  been 
deeply  impressed  by  everything  that  I 
have  read  about  you,  and  particularly 
as  a  Hebrew  scholar,  by  the  true  con- 
tinuation of  the  Bible  spirit  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon." 

I  will  read  one  other  simple  sentence 
from  a  lovely  woman  who  picked  up  a 
copy  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  who 
wrote  this:  "I  am  reading  with  great- 
est delight  the  blessed  truths  contained 
in  that  book.  I  never  dreamed  that  the 
Book  of  Mormon  was  like  that;  in  fact, 
I  thought  hard  things  about  it  and  you, 
for  I  received  my  information  from  arti- 
cles in  secular  magazines.  I  belong  to 
another  denomination,  but,"  and  get 
this,  "how  I  rejoice  to  know  the  truth 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fourth  Day 

and  drink  in  the  precious  words  of  men 
like  Nephi.  and  Mbsiah  and  Alma";  and 
my  heart  rejoices,  and  I  think  to  myself, 
how  marvelous  it  is  to  be  .  able  to  drink 
in  the  predous  words  of  Npphi  and 
Mosiah  and  Alma,  and  yiet  how  many 
Latter-day  Saints  have  lived  and  died 
without  ever  having  known  them. 

God  bless  us  to  appreciate,  to  under- 
stand what  the  scriptures  say.  Hear  the 
Lord's  word  recorded  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants:  "For  what  doth  it  profit 
a  man  if  a  gift  is  bestowed  upon  him, 
and  he  receive  not  the  gift?  Behold, 
he  rejoices  not  in  that  which  is  given 
unto  him,  neither  rejoices  in  him  who 
is  the  giver  of  the  gift."  (D.  &  C.  88:33.) 

God  help  us  to  appreciate  the  monu- 
ments around  us.  God  bless  us  that 
we  may  have  sense  enough,  faith 
enough,  courage  enough,  to  understand 
that  there  are  marvelous  truths  that  we 
might  really  possess,  but  which  we  must 
individually  earn  anew,  if  we  would 
have  them,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  George  Q.  Morris,  whom  you 
have  just  sustained  as  a  member  of  the 
Twelve,  will  be  our  next  speaker. 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks,  of  the  First 
Cotmcil  of  Seventy. 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Y  DEAR  brethren  and  sisters : 
<*■;  ^       ^"""^        know  how 

-*J  Kf  Jl  one  feels  in  this  place 
r  and  under  these  condi- 

tions. I  have  gained  a 
more  thorough  under- 
standing of  one  passage  of  scripture  in 
the  last  few  moments  than  I  ever  had 
before,  which  says  that  the  Lord  shall 
select  the  weak  things  of  the  earth  to 
do  his  work.  But  I  also  must  have  faith, 
as  he  also  says  that  those  who  are  weak 
he  will  strengthen,  and  that  the  weak 
things  of  the  earth  shall  rise  and  go 


forth  and  break  down  the  mighty  and 
the  strong,  which  means  that  we  trust 
in  God.  We  are  engaged  in  his  work. 

And  I  recall  the  passage  in  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  where  the  Lord 
says  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
to  Orson  Hyde  and  to  all  the  faithful 
elders  of  the  Church: 

Wherefore,  be  of  good  cheer,  and  do  not 
fear,  for  I  the  Lord  am  with  you,  and  will 
stand  by  you;  and  ye  shall  bear  record  of 
me,  even  Jesus  Christ,  that  I  am  the  Son  of 
the  living  God,  that  I  was,  that  I  am,  and 
that  I  am  to  come.  (D.  &  C.  68:6.) 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 


117 


I  bear  that  humble  witness  with  all 
my  heart.  I  am  glad  to  place  on  the 
altar  whatever  I  am  and  whatever  I 
possess. 

I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  God, 
that  he  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the 
Son  of  the  living  God,  and  that  he  lives, 
that  he  is  very  close  to  us,  and  that  he 
directs  our  beloved  President  and 
Prophet,  David  O.  McKay,  and  his  as- 
sociates, and  that  these  are  men  of  God. 
And  I  am  very  grateful  to  them  for  the 
kindness  and  consideration  and  patience 
they  have  shown  toward  me.  I  love 
them  and  I  try  to  emulate  their  example. 
I  am  privileged  beyond  my  power  to 
express  my  gratitude  for  the  opportunity 
of  continuing  my  labors  with  them. 

My  mind  naturally  goes  to  my  dear 
mother,  to  whom  I  pay  tribute,  than 
whom  I  can  imagine  no  man  or  woman 
ever  being  more  valiant  than  was  she  in 
her  service  to  her  God.  She  came  as  a 
girl  fifteen  years  of  age,  a  true  believer 
in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  to  St.  Louis, 
where  her  mother  died,  and  she  came  on 
to  Zion.  At  nineteen  she  had  lost  her 
husband  and  her  first  child,  thousands 
of  miles  away  from  her  home  in  Eng- 
land, in  a  wild,  unbroken  country.  She 
entered  into  conditions  that  tested  her 
soul,  and  would  test  the  soul  of  any 
man  or  any  woman,  but  she  was  valiant, 
uncomplaining,  cheerful,  and  true  under 
all  conditions,  and  I  thank  God  for  her, 
and  I  know  she  is  happy  today. 

I  pay  tribute  to  my  dear  wife,  who 
through  years  of  sidmess  has  been  forced 
to  be  absent  from  me  at  sea  level  and 
under  a  doctor's  care.  She  has  been 
lonesome  but  she  has  always  stood  by 
me  through  all  these  years  when  I  put 
my  Church  work  first,  before  my  busi- 
ness and  before  my  home.  ■  She  has  sus- 
tained me  in  it.  And  as  I  left  her  ten 
days  ago  in  New  York,  sick  in  bed,  she 
would  not  have  'it  any  other  way,  and 
she  stands  by  this  principle. 

My  mother  taught  me  to  seek  first 
the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteous- 
ness. I  want  to  bear  witness  to  you, 
my  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  that  that 
principle  is  true,  that  in  this  the  Church 


of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Church  of  the  living 
God,  there  is  no  other  principle  that 
we  should  follow,  no  other  principle, 
except  to  seek  first  the  kingdom  of  God 
and  keep  his  commandments,  and  all 
else  will  be  added.  And  I  thank  the 
Lord  for  the  abundant  and  unexpected 
and  continuing  and  unfailing  blessings, 
temporal  and  spiritual,  that  he  has  given 
to  me,  beyond  all  my  hopes  and  all  my 
deserts,  and  I  acknowledge  his  hand  in 
these  things.  And  I  am  glad  to  lay 
them  on  the  altar  for  his  service  and 
for  this  work. 

I  do  not  feel  that  I  should  say  more. 
My  duty  now  is  one  of  performance,  but 
I  do  bear  witness  that  this  Church  is 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  set  up  by 
him,  directed  by  him,  a  power  for  the 
salvation  of  the  himian  family.  And 
that  this  Church  is  equal  to  every  situ- 
ation that  arises  in  the  world,  and  if 
the  world  would  accept  it,  it  would  meet 
every  situation.  This  Church  is  an  or- 
ganized movement  for  world  peace,  if 
the  world  only  knew  it.  This  is  the 
world  peace  movement,  both  for  indi- 
viduals and  for  nations,  and  there  can  be 
no  substitute. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  love  and 
confidence  of  my  brethren  with  whom 
I  am  to  labor.  I  love  them  and  sustain 
them  with  all  my  heart;  and  I  thank 
the  people  of  this  Church  who  have 
received  me  so  kindly,  for  their  kind- 
ness and  their  consideration.  I  want  to 
pay  a  tribute  to  the  men  and  the  women 
throughout  the  Church  who  carry  for- 
ward so  faithfully  and  so  well,  this  great 
work  to  the  humble  and  duty-loving 
men  and  women,  who  forget  themselves 
and  lose  themselves  in  their  families, 
in  their  children,  and  in  the  Church. 
God  will  bless  them,  and  they  will  enter 
into  their  celestial  joy. 

May  God  help  us  all  to  be  true  and 
give  ourselves  with  all  our  hearts  to  his 
service,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  congregation  and  the  Singing 
Mothers  joined  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"O  Say,  What  Is  Truth?" 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Fourth  Day 

ling  W.  Sill,  whom  you  have  just  sus- 
tained as  an  Assistant  to  the  Council 
We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Ster-    of  the  Twelve  Apostles. 


118 

Tuesday,  April  6 

President  David  O.  McKay 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  HERE  HAVE' been  a  -ntimber  of 
circumstances  that  have  com- 
bined themselves  together  this 
morning  to  produce  in  my 
heart  great  humility,  accom- 
panied by  a  feeling  of  in- 
adequacy to  discharge  properly  the 
responsibilities  of  this  appointment.  I 
pray  that  I  might  receive  the  necessary 
strength  to  fulfil  those  obligations.  I 
am  grateful  for  the  confidence  of  the 
brethren  who  are  responsible  for  this 
appointment.  I  also  appreciate  very 
much  your  sustaining  vote.  I  promise 
the  Gemeral  Authorities  of  the  Church, 
as  well  as  the  general  Church  member- 
ship, and  Him  whose  name  the  Chvirch 
bears,  that  I  will  do  the  very  best  I 
can. 

Many  times  I  have  prayed  to  my 
Father  in  heaven  that  he  would  help 
me  to  do  my  work.  I  hope  that  I  may 
pray  more  and  more  effectively  that  I 
may  help  him  to  do  his  work,  and  by 
that  means  express  to  him  the  apprecia- 
tion that  I  feel  for  all  of  the  blessings 
of  my  life. 

I  am  very  grateful  for  my  wife  and 
family.  I  am  grateful  for  my  parents, 
grandparents,  and  great-grandpEirents. 
As  my  great-grandfather  marched  with 
the  Mormon  Battalion  to  assist  in  the 
war  with  Mexico,  my  great-grandmother 
marched  with  her  little  family  across 
the  plains  to  establish  herself  and  her 
posterity  in  this  valley.  The  wagon 
containing  her  earthly  possessions  was 
drawn  by  a  team  of  oxen.  Before  reach- 
ing her  destination  one  of  the  oxen 
died.  My  great-grandmother  lifted  the 
yoke  of  the  fallen  oxen  to  her  own 
shoulders  and  continued  the  march. 
I  pray  that  I  may  draw  from  her  strength 
and  determination. 

I  appreciate  the  great  opportimity  of 
being  a  part  of  this  Church,  both  for 


what  it  has  meant  to  me  in  the  past, 
and  for  what  it  will  mean  in  the  future. 
The  real  worth  of  a  man  is  not  in 
himself  alone,  but  in  what  he  stands 
for.  It  is  an  inspiring  thing  to  me  that 
the  most  humble  of  tis  may  stand  for 
the  most  important  things.  Joseph 
Smith  was  great  because  of  what  he 
stood  for. 

When  Joseph  Smith  arose  from  his 
knees,  after  his  first  vision,  and  walked 
across  the  fields  to  his  father's  house, 
and  went  into  the  kitchen  where  his 
mother  was  working,  and  leaning 
against  the  fireplace  for  support,  said 
in  substance,  "Mother,  I  have  seen 
God,"  at  that  instant  he  did  not  know 
a  bit  more  surely  than  I  know  or  than 
you  know  that  it  is  right  to  be  honest, 
that  it  is  right  to  be  virtuous,  and  that 
all  the  other  principles  tor  which  this 
Church  stands  are  right.  It  is  right  to 
spend  our  strength  in  the  service  of  our 
Father  in  heaven  to  help  to  bring  about 
his  purposes. 

The  great  psychologist,  William 
James,  said  that  the  greatest  use  of  life 
is  to  spend  it  for  something  that  out- 
lasts it. 

In  a  Sunday  School  class  which  I 
visited  recently  I  heard  a  Sunday  School 
teacher  recount  that  thrilling  story  of 
creation,  that  "God  created  man  in  his 
own  image,"  and  I  found  myself  wish- 
ing that  I  might  have  been  there  to 
have  witnessed  this  great  beginning,  and 
then  it  occurred  to  me,  as  it  has  oc- 
curred many  times  since,  that  the  crea- 
tion of  man  is  not  something  that  was 
finished  and  done  with  in  the  Garden 
ol:  Eden.  The  creation  of  man  is  still 
going  on,  and  in  a  very  real  sense  each 
of  us  is  a  creator — that  is,  the  attitudes, 
the  enthusiasms,  the  faith,  the  deter- 
mination to  serve  God,  that  are  so  im- 
portant to  our  eternal  exaltation,  are 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


119 


being  currently  created  within  us  and 
in  others. 

It  is  more  important  to  build  a  great 
character  than  to  build  a  great  sky- 
scraper. We  know  that  the  worth  of 
souls  is  great,  but  mostly  we  are  not 
great  for  what  we  are,  we  are  great 
for  what  we  may  become,  and  it  is  my 
hope  and  prayer  in  my  own  behalf  that 
I  may  develop  those  qualities  that  will 
enable  me  to  accomplish  the  duties  of 
this  assignment  as  is  expected  of  me  by 
my  Father  in  heaven  and  those  who 
preside  over  me  in  the  Church. 


May  the  blessings  of  our  Father  in 
heaven  be  with  us  that  we  may  under- 
stand our  opportunities,  I  pray  in  Jesus' 
name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  sustained  as  As- 
sistant to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles. 

We  will  now  hear  from  Elder  Heiuy 
D.  Moyle,  member  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.   Elder  Moyle. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


AM  GRATEFUL,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  to  be  back  in  this 
goodly  land.  I  am  very  hap- 
py this  morning  to  welcome 
into  the  circle  of  the  General 
Authorities  those  who  have 
been  called  of  our  heavenly  Father  to 
fill  these  important  positions  and  sus- 
tained this  day  by  the  vote  of  the  peo- 
ple. I  can't  help  commenting  with  some 
pride  that  my  father,  as  well  as  Brother 
George  Q.  Morris  and  his  father  and 
his  mother,  came  from  the  old  Fifteenth 
Ward.  It  seemed,  as  I  grew  up  to 
manhood,  that  the  Fifteenth  Ward 
became  a  part  of  me  although  I  never 
had  the  privilege  of  living  in  it,  because 
I  heard  so  much  from  the  lips  of  my 
father  concerning  the  wonderful  fami- 
lies that  lived  in  that  ward.  He  always 
mentioned  the  Morris  family,  and  Sister 
Morris,  and  what  a  lovely  woman  she 
was.  Brother  Morris's  father  was  one 
of  the  great  industrial  leaders  of  the 
state  and  helped  with  others  of  our 
forefathers  to  make  this  state  what  it  is. 
So  I  am  happy  to  welcome  Brother 
Morris  into  our  Council  this  day.  I 
have  appreciated  the  associations  that 
we  have  had  with  him  in  the  past. 

It  has  also  been  my  privilege  to  work 
to  a  slight  extent  with  Brother  Sill,  and 
my  heart  goes  out  to  him  in  gratitude 
for  his  faithfulness  and  devotion  to  the 


work  of  the  Lord,  and  I  pray  that  the 
Lord  will  bless  and  sustain  these  won- 
derful men  in  the  ofiEices  to  which 
they  have  been  called. 

I  have  never  before  in  my  life  been  so 
grateful  as  I  am  this  day  for  the  bless- 
ings of  the  restored  gospel  of  Jesus 
Cmist,  for  my  membership  in  the 
Church,  and  for  what  strength  the  Lord 
has  given  me  to  assist  in  helping  his 
children  here  upon  the  earth.  My 
labors  this  winter  in  the  great  countries 
of  Europe  have  brought  me  close  to  the 
people.  I  have  had  the  opportunity  of 
visiting  them  in  their  towns  and  in  their 
villages,  seeing  them  in  their  homes, 
feeling  of  their  faith  and  of  their  devo- 
tion, and  imderstanding  to  some  slight 
extent  the  difficulties  that  confront 
them  in  their  daily  lives,  the  manner 
in  which  they  are  still  ostracized  by 
their  neighbors  the  moment  that  they 
join  the  Church  and  begin  to  proclaim 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  their  neigh- 
bors and  friends  and  their  families.  My 
heart  goes  out  to  them,  and  above  all 
else,  a  desire  that  I  have  within  me  to 
be  of  help  to  them.  I  feel  now,  as  I 
have  felt  all  winter,  that  every  ounce 
of  strength,  every  blessing  that  the  Lord 
has  given  me,  should  be  shared  with 
those  people.  I  would  love  to  live 
among  them  and  to  ask  the  Lord  to 
continue  to  bless  me  that  I  might  have 


120  GENERAL  ( 

Tuesday,  April  6 

stroigth  to  impart  unto  them  and  to 
give  to  them  the  blessings  that  come 
from  the  power  of  the  priesthood  which 
has  been  restored  in  these  latter  days. 

Never  has  the  power  of  the  priest- 
hood been  so  bestowed  upon  me  or 
felt  in  my  presence,  as  it  has  been 
this  winter,  as  we  have  gone  forth  to 
seek  to  bless  &e  Saints  in  Europe.  I 
have  been  impriessed  with  the  one  attri- 
bute common  to  them  all,  and  that  was 
the  fact  that  they  wanted  no  pity.  I 
wish  you  could  all  have  been  present 
in  Berlin:  Nearly  a  thousand  people 
assembled  there  on  a  Sabbath  morning 
with  a  beautiful  choir,  singing  the 
hymns  of  Zion  in  German,  so  dear  to  my 
heart.  We  listened  to  the  testimonies 
of  those  men,  the  expressions  of  grati- 
tude in  their  hearts  for  that  which  they 
had,  and  when  you  looked  around,  you 
wondered  really  what  they  had  to  be 
grateful  for,  as  compared  with  us.  They 
have  but  one  thing,  the  most  priceless 
gift  that  our  Father  in  heaven  has  given 
to  man,  the  testimony  of  the  divinity 
of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ.  It 
has  brought  strength  to  their  hearts;  it 
has  destroyed  fear;  and  it  has  reconciled 
them  to  whatever  their  lot  may  be. 

I  had  the  privilege  of  shaking  hands 
with  some  four  hundred  people  who 
live  behind  the  Iron  Curtain.  I  heard 
their  leaders  say  that  they  knew  that 
they  had  a  mission  there  to  perform  that 
was  far  greater  than  any  mission  that 
they  could  perform  elsewhere  in  the 
world.  They  did  not  seek  by  migra- 
tion to  relieve  themselves  of  the  bur- 
dens, of  the  oppression,  or  of  the  perse- 
cution under  which  they  live.  All  they 
prayed  for  was  strength  that  they  might 
withstand  the  same,  and  in  overcoming 
their  obstacles  grow  strong.  I  had  one 
lovely  sister  say  to  me  she  was  so  glad 
that  she  lived  where  she  did  and  had 
the  opportunity  to  meet  all  of  these 
oppressive  circumstances  of  life  because 
she  knew  within  her  very  being  that 
she  was  growing  stronger,  and  she  rather 
pitied  those  of  us  who  had  been  born 
in  the  Church,  considered  in  a  way  as 
though  by  so  being  we  had  been  born 
in  the  lap  of  luxury  and  ease. 


Fourth  Day 

I  tell  you  in  that  meeting  in  Berlin 
there  was  not  a  word  of  pity,  not  a  word 
of  complaint,  nothing  but  praises  sung 
and  spoken  to  our  Father  in  heaven  for 
the  blessings  that  he  gave  them,  for  the 
freedom  that  they  enjoyed. 

I  might  take  you  from  Berlin  for  a 
moment  down  into  Switzerland  where 
circumstances  are  a  little  more  favorable, 
but  where  still  in  some  of  the  cantons 
we  do  not  have  the  religious  freedom 
that  we  would  like.  A  little  black- 
haired  boy,  not  more  than  eight  or  nine 
years  of  age,  came  up  to  me  after  our 
meeting  in  Basel,  and  with  fear  and 
trembling  he  said  he  wanted  to  shake 
hands  with  me,  and  when  he  got  hold 
of  my  hand,  he  looked  up  into  my 
eyes  with  his  big  black  eyes  and  he 
said,  "Brother  Moyle,  would  you  come 
and  administer  to  my  father?" 

When  I  went  to  that  boy's  home,  I 
met  a  faithful  mother,  and  an  older 
brother.  That  mother  threw  her  arms 
around  me,  and  she  said,  "Brother 
Moyle,  we  have  fasted  and  prayed,  and 
especially  this  youngest  son  of  mine, 
that  he  might  have  the  courage  that 
we  older  ones  lacked  to  ask  you  to 
come  to  our  home  and  bless  our  father 
who  is  so  critically  ill." 

I  tell  you  when  I  saw  the  faith  of 
that  boy,  and  the  faith  of  that  mother 
and  of  that  son,  and  of  the  appreciation 
that  they  had  for  the  priesthood  of  God, 
it  touched  my  heart  to  the  very  core. 
It  gave  me  a  sense  of  humility  I 
would  like  to  keep  all  the  days  of  my 
life.  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  his 
power  were  there  present,  and  we  blessed 
that  good  father  and  gave  to  that  family 
the  desires  of  their  heart  through  the 
gift  and  power  of  our  heavenly  Father. 

That  instance  could  be  multiplied 
many  times  in  the  experiences  which 
we  had  this  winter.  I  was  so  grateful 
that  my  good  wife  was  with  me.  Those 
people  seemed  to  feel  as  though  they 
had  been  specially  blessed  by  the 
presence  of  my  good  wife  and  the  love 
and  the  affection  that  she  bestowed  upon 
these  wonderful  people. 

I  tell  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  when 
the  faith  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  such 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


121 


that  they  can  praise  the  Lord  for  the 
restoration  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
and  the  blessings  which  that  has  brought 
into  their  lives  through  their  obedience 
to  its  principles,  to  the  exclusion  of 
practically  all  else  in  life,  then  we  see, 
I  am  sure,  reflected  in  their  lives  the 
image,  the  Spirit,  and  the  power  of  our 
heavenly  Father.  God  bless  these  peo- 
ple. 

It  was  wonderful  to  meet  with  your 
missionary  sons  and  daughters.  I  heard 
pactically  every  elder  in  Europe,  with 
few  exceptions,  bear  his  testimony,  and 
the  lovely  lady  missionaries  likewise. 
The  hours  never  ran  too  long  but  what 
we  were  thrilled  by  the  devotion  of 
these  fine  yoimg  men  and  women;  I 
tell  you  it  seems  as  though  the  diffi- 
culties that  confront  them,  the  problems 
they  have  to  solve,  make  the  mission- 
aries stronger,  too. 

I  have  had  a  feeling  this  winter  that 
greater  than  anything  I  did  for  others 
was  the  effect  upon  me  of  these  wonder- 
ful contacts  and  associations.  They  have 
touched  my  life  with  a  very  great  force. 
They  have  made  me  realize  that  God 
lives  and  that  he  hears  and  answers  the 
prayers  of  his  sons  and  daughters  here 
upon  this  earth.  I  can  say  amen  to  all 
that  Brother  Spencer  W.  Kimball  has 
said  this  morning — ^that  the  Lord  is  no 
respecter  of  persons. 

I  have  been  led  to  tell  the  people  of 
Etirope  this  winter,  and  I  know  it  as  I 
know  that  I  live,  that  we  have  entered 
into  a  new  era  in  the  history  of  the 
Church,  one  brought  about  by  two  great 
circumstances,  toward  which  we  have 
been  unconsciously  laboring.  The  one 
circumstance  culminated  when  Presi- 
dent McKay  gave  to  the  Church  six 
months  ago  a  charge  that  everyone 
should  be  a  missionary.  He  indicated 
the  possibility  of  increasing  the  mem- 
bership of  the  Church  by  at  least 
500,000  in  1954  if  every  family  in  the 
Church  would  accept  that  admonition 
and  bring  one  soul  into  the  Church 
during  this  year.  The  people  of  Europe 
have  caught  that  inspiration.  In  place 
of  inviting  missionaries  to  come  to  their 
homes  to  eat,  as  has  been  the  custom 


(sometimes  I  am  afraid  we  have  per- 
mitted these  people  to  go  to  too  great 
a  sacrifice  to  feed  our  elders),  now  the 
missionaries  are  calling  in  their  neigh- 
bors, and  just  like  Brother  [T.  Bowring] 
Woodbury  [at  the  special  missionary 
conference]  said  last  night,  they  are  find- 
ing that  it  is  a  fine  way  to  begin  a  cot- 
tage meeting  in  the  home  to  give  their 
neighbors  a  meal  before  they  start  to 
preach  the  gospel  to  them.  That  is 
what  our  people  in  Europe  are  doing. 
The  work  is  going  forward  and  will  go 
forward  as  they  continue  to  follow  the. 
admonition  of  our  Prophet.  They  recog- 
nize it  is  part  of  their  life,  that  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay  is  the  mouth- 
piece of  our  heavenly  Father  upon  this 
earth,  they  look  to  him  for  guidance 
and  direction.  They  know  that  by 
this  missionary  labor  they  can  ac- 
complish two  things:  They  can  first  of 
all  establish  their  own  homes  in  these 
localities  in  Europe  on  a  firmer  basis, 
and  in  place  of  giving  attention  to 
emigration  to  this  country,  they  give 
attention  to  preaching  the  gospel  and 
disseminating  that  joy  and  happiness 
and  assurance  to  others  which  has  come 
into  their  lives. 

The  other  great  circumstance  that 
has  ushered  into  the  Church  a  new 
era  is  the  building  of  temples  in  Europe. 
How  I  thrilled  to  stand  upon  that 
ground,  which  is  already  hallowed  by 
the  dedication  of  a  Prophet  of  God  as 
the  site  of  a  temple  to  be  built  to  the 
Most  High  and  to  there  see  the  machin- 
ery and  the  men  at  work  excavating  for 
that  great  temple  in  Europe.  I  am  sure 
that  the  one  in  England  will  be  a  like 
inspiration  to  those  people  to  build  up 
their  branches.  The  men  are  preparing 
to  receive  the  priesthood,  that  they  may 
be  worthy  not  only  to  go  through  the 
temple  and  receive  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord  there  in  his  house,  but  likewise 
to  gain  knowledge  and  wisdom,  judg- 
ment, and  discretion  in  matters  that 
pertain  to  the  priesthood  so  that  they 
can  preside  over  the  branches  and  the 
districts  of  the  missions  abroad  and 
relieve  the  missionaries  whom  we  send 
forth  to  proselyte. 


122 

Tuesday,  April  6 

It  would  do  yoxir  heart  good  to  hear 
some  of  those  district  presidents  from  be- 
hind the  Iron  Curtain  tell  you  of  the 
percentage  of  branch  teaching  that  they 
are  getting  from  the  priesthood.  They 
have  a  priesthood  which  has  practically 
no  contact  with  the  Church.  We  can- 
not send  into  them  literature;  we  can- 
not visit  them;  and  it  is  on  rare  occa- 
sions, such  as  I  was  privileged  to  enjoy 
in  Berlin,  that  they  can  come  into  Berlin 
and  into  the  West  Zone  to  attend  our 
meetings. 

I  tell  you  when  we  get  faithful  men 
in  Europe,  supported  by  faithful  women, 
to  do  their  branch  teaching  and  to  help 
to  sustain  and  to  strengthen  and  to 
uphold  the  weaker  members  of  those 
branches,  a  new  era  has  entered  into 
our  great  missionary  work  and  into  the 
mission  fields  of  the  Church.  I  am 
sure  that  there  has  been  a  different 
attitude  toward  us  on  the  part  of  some 
new  governments.  I  am  grateful  be- 
yond measure  to  the  government  of  West 
Germany  that  they  have  given  to  us  a 
legal  status  equal  to  any  of  the  churches 
of  the  world  and  have  permitted  us  to 
become  incorporated  under  their  public 
laws  and  given  us  all  of  the  advantages 
incident  thereto.  It  would  have  filled 
your  hearts  with  joy  to  have  been 
present  in  Frankfurt  when  704  faith- 
ful servicemen  gathered  from  all  over 
Europe  and  Africa,  under  military 
orders,  some  of  them,  to  come  there  to 
attend.  When  one  commanding  officer 
heard  such  a  convention  was  to  be  held 
again  this  year,  with  knowledge  of  what 
had  transpired  in  previous  years,  he 
issued  an  order  requiring  their  at- 
tendance and  didn't  leave  it  alone  to 
the  discretion  of  his  men.  That  order 
carried  some  advantages  that  they  had 
not  enjoyed  on  previous  trips  to  that 
conference  in  Frankfurt. 

I  say  it  would  have  thrilled  you  to 
have  seen  the  faithfulness  of  these  men 
and  to  have  had  them  welcomed  into 
that  German  city  by  the  burgomeister. 
Dr.  Leiske,  a  man  whom  I  honor  and 
respect  for  his  Christian  virtues  and  his 
integrity  and  his  kindness  to  service- 
men whom  he  knew  to  be  Latter-day 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fourth  Day 

Saints.  I  had  the  pleasure  of  sitting 
with  him  at  the  banquet  table  and  tell- 
ing him  that  it  had  been  my  privilege 
over  forty  years  before,  under  the  presi- 
dency of  President  Thomas  E.  McKay, 
to  serve  as  the  presiding  elder  there  in 
Frankfurt  and  to  preach  the  gospel  to 
his  people.  I  wish  the  welcoming  ad- 
dress which  he  gave  us  could  be  read  by 
all  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  wish  likewise 
that  we  will  so  live  as  a  people  here  at 
home  to  merit  the  compliments  that 
were  paid  us  there  by  those  who  have 
been  over  here. 

I  must  conclude  my  remarks.  I  want 
to  say  that  I  met  many  other  public 
officials,  including  mayors  of  cities  in 
Finland,  public  officials  in  Sweden, 
who  had  been  here,  and  who  welcomed 
us,  who  entertained  us,  and  who  bear 
for  us  a  kindly  invitation.  And  one 
great  industrial  leader,  Mr.  Eric  W. 
Forsberg,  of  Sandviken,  Sweden,  the 
president  and  general  manager  of  the 
Sandvik  Steel  Company,  one  of  the 
most  wonderful  companies  in  Europe, 
that  so  refines  steel  that  it  becomes 
worth  more  than  gold,  entertained  us, 
President  Clarence  F.  Johnson,  and  a 
group  of  missionaries  of  the  Swedish 
Mission,  and  sent  his  private  cars  to 
take  us  to  our  next  appointment  rather 
than  to  have  us  ride  on  the  train.  I  say 
God  bless  these  people. 

Before  we  got  through  that  day,  he 
invited  President  Clarence  F.  Johnson 
to  send  his  missionaries  into  the  settle- 
ment in  which  the  employees  of  that 
steel  works  live  and  said  that  he  had 
hundreds  of  refugee  Germans  there,  and 
that  we  could  send  in  Swedish  as  well 
as  German-speaking  elders.  He  wanted 
the  influence  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to 
be  felt  in  his  great  organization. 

God  bless  us  all,  I  pray  humbly,  and 
make  us  worthy  of  the  heritage  which 
is  ours,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


123 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
will  now  sing,  "I  Will  Exalt  Thee,  O 
Lord." 

Let  us  pause  a  moment.  Relief  So- 
ciety Singing  Mothers — what  that  phrase 
radiates,  that  title.  Singing  Mothers, 
rendering  relief  to  the  Church.  It  is 
no  wonder  when  they  gather  as  a  body 
that  they  inspire  us  as  they  do  with 
their  gracious  inspirational  singing. 
With  all  our  hearts  we  say  God  bless 
you. 

The  closing  prayer  this  morning  will 
be  offered  by  Elder  John  B.  Hawkes, 
formerly  President  of  the  North  Central 
States  Mission. 

The  singing  for  this  session,  as  I  say, 
has  been  furnished  by  these  Relief  So- 
ciety Singing  Mothers  with  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen  conducting.  And  how 


ably  she  conductsi  The  Lord  surely 
blesses  her  leadership,  and  her  ability. 

She  has  devoted  her  life  to  the  training 
of  musicians,  inspiring  others,  hun- 
dreds of  others  with  her  ability  as  a 
great  musician. 

Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  has  been  at 
the  organ. 

Following  the  benediction  by  Elder 
John  B.  Hawkes,  until  recently  Presi- 
dent of  the  North  Central  States  Mis- 
sion, this  conference  will  stand  ad- 
journed until  2  o'clock  this  afternoon. 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
sang  "I  Will  Exalt  Thee,  O  Lord." 

Elder  John  B.  Hawkes,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  North  Central  States  Mis- 
sion, offered  the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


FOURTH  DAY 
AFTmiNOON  MEETING 


The  concluding  session  of  the  Con- 
ference convened  in  the  Tabernacle 
at  2  o'clock  p.m.,  Tuesday,  April  6th. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers, 
under  the  direction  of  Sister  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen,  furnished  the  choral 
singing  for  this  session. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  in  the  concluding 
and  seventh  session  of  the  124th  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

For  those  who  are  unable  to  enter 
the  building,  we  announce  that  the  serv- 
ices are  being  broadcast  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall  over  a  public 
address  system,  also  by  television. 

As  heretofore  announced,  these  serv- 
ices are  also  being  televised  over  KSL- 
TV,  channel  five,  of  Salt  Lake  City,  and 
are  being  heard  over  radio  through  KSL, 
over  twelve  radio  stations  as  just  an- 
nounced over  the  radio  station.  As  there 
may  be  some  listening  in  who  have  not 


heard  our  expression  of  appreciation  of 
the  service  rendered  by  these  radios,  we 
express  again  deep  appreciation  for  their 
courtesy  in  making  available  their  time 
and  facilities  for  these  broadcasts. 

We  are  pleased  to  note  the  attendance 
this  afternoon  of  prominent  state  offi- 
cials, leaders  in  educational  circles,  and 
particularly  to  acknowledge  the  presence 
of  Sir  Alexander  Fleming,  native  of 
Ayrshire,  Scotland,  world-renowned  dis- 
coverer of  penicillin,  and  famed  British 
doctor,  and  also  Lady  Fleming.  Dr. 
Fleming  is  Director  of  the  Wright 
Fleming  Institute  of  Microbiology  in 
London.  We  are  pleased.  Doctor  and 
Lady  Fleming,  to  have  you  in  our  ses- 
sion, in  our  congregation  this  afternoon. 

The  music  for  this  session  will  be 
rendered  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers,  conducted  by  Florence  Jepper- 
son Madsen,  with  Frank  W.  Asper  at 
the  organ.  The  Singing  Mothers  will 
now  favor  us  with  "Seek  Ye  the  Lord." 
The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Sylvester  Broadbent,  formerly 
President  of  the  West  Central  States 
Mission. 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Tuesday,  April  6 

A  mtisical  selection,  "Seek  Ye  the 
Lord,"  was  sung  by  the  Relief  Society 
Singing  Mothers. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Sylvester  Broadbent,  formerly 
president  of  the  West  Central  States 
Mission. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 

sang  "In  His  Steps." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

When  we  realize  that  these  mothers 
come  in  small  groups  from  various,  and 
in  some  cases  distant,  parts  of  the 
Church,  and  have  had  only  one  or 
possibly  two  opportunities  to  practice 
as  a  group,  we  marvel  at  the  expression 
and  inspiration  that  Sister  Madsen  suc- 
ceeds in  bringing  out  of  this  wonderful 
Singing  Mothers  organization. 

It  is  said  that  honest  confession  is 
good  for  the  soul.  We  will  let  Presi- 
dent Clark  now  not  make  a  confession 
but  an  acknowledgement  for  all  of  us 
of  an  oversight  this  morning. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

I  am  covered  with  chagrin  about  this, 
but  I  failed  to  present  this  morning  one 


Fourth  Day 

of  the  most  important  offices  in  the 
Church;  having  in  mind  what  the  Lord 
has  said  to  us  about  the  importance  of 
records  and  the  keeping  of  records,  it  is 
inexcusable  that  I  should  have  looked 
over  presentii^g  this  office.  I  have 
apologized  to  President  McKay,  I  have 
apologized  to  Brother  Joseph  Fielding, 
I  apologize  to  the  audien(^. 

It  has  been  proposed  that  we  sustain 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith  £is  Church  His- 
torian and  Recorder,  with  A.  William 
Lund  as  his  assistant.  All  those  in 
favor  of  this  proposal  will  signify  it  by 
raising  the  right  hand.  (Those  present 
raised  their  right  hands.)  Those  op- 
posed by  the  same  sign.  (No  hands 
raised.) 

Thank  you,  brothers  and  sisters.  The 
voting  was  tmanimously  in  the  affirma- 
tive. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  is  forgiven. 

Our  first  speaker  this  afternoon  will 
be  Bishop  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric.  He  will  be  fol- 
lowed by  Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter. 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


•  '    ITH    THE    STATEMENT,  COn- 

1        •        fession  is  good  for  the  soul, 
just   made   by  President 
Clark,  I  can  truthfully  tell 
te»  you  that  I  confess  to  you 

that  I  am  nervous,  fright- 
ened, and  humble,  and  I  hope  this 
confession  will  be  good  for  my  soul. 

President  McKay,  President  Richards, 
President  Clark,  my  beloved  brothers 
and  sisters  and  friends:  As  we  have 
listened  to  this  beautiful  music  today 
and  the  music  in  each  session  of  the 
conference,  it  reminds  me  of  the  state- 
ment, "the  song  of  the  righteous  is  a 
prayer  unto  God."  (See  D.  &  C.  25:1Z) 
The  music  has  been  a  prayer  xmto  our 
Father  in  heaven,  and  it  certainly  has 
mellowed  our  souls.  I  pray  the  Lord 


to  be  with  me  as  I  speak  to  you  for  a 
few  moments. 

We  have  had  another  great  conference 
of  the  Church,  certainly  a  spiritual  con- 
ference. Our  testimonies  have  been  in- 
creased. Every  meeting  has  been  rich 
with  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  Truly,  we 
have  been  fed  the  bread  of  life;  and 
as  we  listen  to  these  great  sermons, 
these  wonderful  addresses,  I  wonder 
when  we  leave  here  today  whether  that 
will  be  the  last  that  we  will  think  of 
them.  Would  it  not  be  well  for  us, 
when  these  addresses  are  published,  to 
read  them  again,  to  spend  an  evening 
reading  these  marvelous  addresses  to 
our  family?  Certainly  we  recognize  that 
we  have  listened  to  the  word  of  the 
Lord,  and  it  would  be  well  for  us,  I 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


125 


am  sure,  if  we  read  afld  re-read  them. 
There  are  so  many  of  our  young  people 
who  do  not  get  a  chance  to  hear  these 
conferences.  I  am  sure  they  would  thrill 
if  they  would  read  these  addresses. 

As  one  of  the  most  humble  among 
you,  and  one  of  the  weakest,  I  have 
long  since  realized  that  if  I  try  to  do 
my  work  without  the  help  of  the  Lord, 
I  utterly  fail,  and  I  know  without  his 
blessing  I  am  as  nothing. 

I  sincerely  trust  that  the  radio  and 
television  audiences  have  been  able  to 
partake  of  the  spirit  of  this  conference. 
Certainly  there  has  been  a  beautiful, 
sweet  spirit  here  at  every  session.  The 
spirit  of  worship,  the  spirit  of  reverence, 
the  spirit  of  thankfulness  and  gratitude 
Lord  has  said,  "When  ye  shall  meet  in 
has  been  here  in  rich  abundance.  The 
my  name,  I  will  be  in  your  midst,"  (see 
Matt.  18:20;  D.  &  C.  6:32)  and  that 
sweet  spirit  that  we  have  felt  here  is 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

If  the  Lord  will  direct  me,  I  should 
like  to  say  one  or  two  things  on  the 
subject  of  faith,  not  from  the  scientific, 
technical  viewpoint,  but  just  practical, 
personal,  simple  faith;  faith  in  God, 
faith  that  God  lives,  and  I  quote  from 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  section  50, 
verse  24: 

That  which  is  of  God  is  light;  and  he 
that  receiveth  light,  and  continueth  in  God, 
receiveth  more  light;  and  that  light  groweth 
brighter  and  brighter  until  the  perfect  day. 

The  Apostle  Paul  tells  us  without 
faith  it  is  impossible  to  please  God, 
and  without  faith  it  is  impossible  to 
accomplish  anything  of  real  value.  (See 
Heh  11:6.) 

In  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  sec- 
tion 14,  verse  9,  may  I  quote:  ' 

Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
living  God,  who  created  the  heavens  and 
the  earth,  a  light  which  cannot,  be  hid  in 
darkness. 

Faith  in  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God. 

Faith  in  the  mission  of  Jesus  Christ 
— that  mission  was  for  the  redemption 
of  you  and  me  and  all  mankindl  How 
he  loved  the  world!  How  he  suffered 


and  died  that  we  might  live  and  have 
eternal  life,  probably  God's  greatest 
gift  to  man.  Ma;^  we  have  faith  in  the 
mission  of  our  beloved  Savior,  faith  in 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  has 
been  restored  to  the  earth  in  our  day 
in  its  fulness. 

Faith  in  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
chosen  of  the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ,  to  bring  forth  the  restored  gospel! 

Faith  in  the  mission  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph!  Faith  that  he  actually  saw  God 
and  his  Son,  and  that  he  received  visita- 
tions from  heavenly  messengers  on 
many  occasions!  Faith  in  the  life,  the 
devotion,  and  the  mission  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith! 

Faith  in  the  prophets  of  God  since 
that  time  up  to  the  present!  Faith  and 
knowledge  that  President  David  O. 
McKay  is  a  true  prophet  of  God!  Faith 
that  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church 
and  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
and  the  Patriarch  are  prophets,  seers, 
and  revelators,  and  servants  of  God,  our 
Father! 

How  would  you  like  to  have  known 
Moses?  How  would  you  like  to  have 
known  Elijah,  Abraham,  Peter,  James, 
John,  and  some  of  the  other  great  proph- 
ets? Oh,  we  read  about  them  and  some- 
times we  wish  we  had  known  these 
prophets.  Have  we  the  faith  to  recog- 
nize and  realize  that  these  prophets  to- 
day are  called  of  the  same  God  who 
called  the  prophets  of  old?  Have  we 
the  faith  to  recognize  in  them  that  they 
are  special  witnesses  for  Christ?  Some- 
times I  wonder  if  we  get  so  close  to 
the  forest  that  we  cannot  see  the  trees. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  have 
felt  and  I  know  that  these  men  are  true 
prophets  of  God  and  that  he  does  reveal 
his  mind  and  will  to  them.  As  I  have 
said  before,  I  have  watched  decisions 
now  for  a  number  of  years,  and  I  want 
to  tell  you  that  the  decisions  they  make 
are  the  decisions  inspired  of  the  Lord, 
and  they  are  not  their  decisions,  but 
they  are  the  decisions  of  our  Father  in 
heaven. 

I  hope  the  membership  in  the  Church 
can  accept  those  decisions  as  inspired 
revelations  and  inspiration. 


126  GENERAL  ( 

Tuesday,  April  6 

-Faith  in  the  power  of  the  priesthood, 
the  power  of  God,  the  power  and  au- 
thority delegated  to  men  and  boys  to 
act  in  the  name  and  in  the  place  of 
our  Father  in  heaven  here  upon  the 
earth.  How  often  have  we  witnessed 
the  power  of  the  priesthood  and  faith 
in  the  sparing  of  the  lives  of  our  loved 
ones,  restoring  them  to  their  health, 
that  they  could  be  with  us  longer. 

I  want  to  bear  you  my  testimony  that 
I  know  that  God  does  hear  and  answer 
prayers,  and  it  is  through  the  power 
of  the  priesthood  and  faith  that  many 
of  our  loved  ones  have  been  spared, 
that  their  health  has  been  restored.  I 
hope  we  will  have  the  faith  to  accept 
this  and  not  take  it  too  much  for  granted. 

Faith  in  each  other!  Paul  in  his 
writings  uses  this  expression:  "For  we 
walk  by  faith,  not  by  sight."  (II  Cor. 
5:7.) 

"I  would  rather  walk  in  the  dark 

with  Thee, 
Than  walk  alone  in  the  light. 
I  would  rather  walk  by  faith 

with  Thee, 
Than  walk  alone  by  sight." 

Let  your  blessings  come  from  faith 
more  than  by  sight.  This  was  evidenced 
by  the  words  of  the  Master  to  Thomas, 
when  he  said, 

.  .  .  because  thou  hast  seen  me,  thou  hast 
believed:  blessed  are  they  that  have  not 
seen,  and  yet  have  believed.  (John  20:29.) 

We  need  not  walk  alone  nor  stumble 
in  the  dark,  because  if  our  faith  is 
right,  it  will  light  our  way.  Faith  is 
a  gift  of  God. 

The  brotherhood  of  Christ  is  beautiful 
to  behold.  Why?  Because  it  is  of  God. 
We  have  witnessed  it  here,  and  we 
witness  it  in  every  session. 

Jesus  speaking  said, 

I  am  the  resurrection,  and  the  life:  he 
that  believeth  in  me,  though  he  were  dead, 
yet  shall  he  live; 

And  whosoever  liveth  and  believeth  in 
me  shall  never  die.  (Ibid.,  11:25-26.) 


Fourth  Day 

That  is  the  faith  of  the  membership 
of  this  Church. 

Faith  in  the  principle  of  prayerl 
Where  would  we  go  and  what  would 
we  do  without  the  principle  of  prayer? 
A  while  ago  I  was  thrilled  as  I  attended 
a  stake  conference.  A  young  man  who 
was  asked  to  give  the  invocation  lived 
in  an  area  where  there  had  been  con- 
siderable drouth.  They  were  worried 
about  moisture,  and  when  he  was  called 
upon  to  pray,  among  other  beautihil 
and  appropriate  thoughts,  he  prayed  to 
the  Lord  for  moisture.  That  boy  had 
faith,  faith  in  prayer,  faith  in  God,  and 
he  was  not  afraid  to  ask  the  Lord  for 
the  blessings  that  they  needed.  Then, 
the  next  week,  I  was  at  another  confer- 
ence in  the  same  area  where  they,  too, 
were  worrying  about  moisture,  but  dur- 
ing the  week  they  had  had  considerable 
moisture,  and  this  young  man  in  his 
prayer,  I  do  not  recall  whether  it  was 
the  invocation  or  benediction,  thanked 
the  Lord  for  the  moisture  that  had  come 
to  them,  assuring  them  that  their  crops 
would  be  matured. 

Many  of  our  young  people  are  not 
here,  but  I  hope  as  parents  we  will 
teach  them  to  pray,  that  they  may  be 
able  to  take  their  problems  to  their 
Father  in  heaven.  I  would  feel  very  bad 
if  I  ever  learned  that  my  children  did 
not  pray  for  their  father  or  their  mother. 
I  could  assure  them,  as  you  can,  that 
we  pray  for  them  constantly.  Certainly, 
they  can  do  no  less  than  to  pray  for 
their  parents.  Fathers  and  mothers,  do 
your  children  pray  for  you,  or  are  they 
too  modest?  I  hope  the  young  people 
will  be  considerate  of  their  parents. 
My  father  and  mother  have  been  dead 
a  long  time,  but  how  I  would  like  to 
shake  hands  with  my  dad  and  tell  him 
how  much  I  love  him  and  feel  the 
callouses  on  his  hands  and  pick  them 
as  I  used  to  when  I  was  a  kid,  because 
he  was  a  hard-working  farmer  and  la- 
boring man.  But  more  than  that,  how 
I  would  like  to  see  my  mother,  how  I 
would  like  to  put  my  arms  around  her 
and  thank  her  for  all  she  did  for  me. 
Do  you  think  I  would  hestitate  today 
to  tell  her  that  I  love  her?  No,  no,  not 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


127 


if  I  had  a  chance.  Sometimes  young 
people  do  not  take  that  opportunity 
when  they  have  the  chance. 

Are  your  children  disrespectful  to 
you,  parents?  Sometime  ago  I  heard  a 
boy  refer  to  his  father  as  the  old  man, 
and  then  I  heard  him  refer  to  his  moth- 
er as  the  old  woman.  No,  I  would 
not  speak  about  my  father  today  that 
way,  nor  my  mother,  and  I  hope  our 
young  people  will  be  taught  not  to 
address  their  father  and  mother  in  that 
way. 

When  Jesus  was  on  the  Mount  of 
Olives  with  his  disciples,  he  withdrew 
that  he  might  go  and  pray  in  secret  to 
his  Father.  His  heart  was  heavy;  his 
cross  seemed  imbearable.  He  wanted 
to  be  alone  with  bis  Father;  the  under- 
standing between  Jesus  and  his  Father, 
the  loving  trust  between  father  and 
child;  we,  too,  can  have  that  beautiful 
relationship  as  father  and  child. 

Faith  that  we  can  receive  comfort, 
strength,  and  blessings  from  our  heav- 
enly Father  through  the  medium  of 
prayer. 

Recently  I  read  these  expressions  on 
the  subject  of  "Secret  Prayer,"  and  with 
your  permission  I  should  like  to  read 
them: 

The  soul  with  a  broken  heart,  on  bended 
knees,  with  head  bowed  reverently,  cannot 
long  remain  in  the  shadows  of  the  night 
of  spiritual  blindness.  To  pray  in  secret  to 
our  divine  Father  in  heaven  brings  solace 
to  the  aching  heart,  companionship  to  the 
lonely,  assurance  to  the  oppressed,  light  to 
the  wayward,  power  to  the  weak,  strength 
to  the  strong,  and  the  calm  conviction  that 
God,  our  eternal  Father,  lives  and  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ. 

What  a  privilege  to  shut  oneself  away 
from  the  world  arid  be  with  God  alone  in 
prayer.  He  knows  us  for  what  we  really 
are  and  not  for  what  we  may  appear  to  be. 
If  we  are  righteous,  he  is  happy.  If  we 
are  sinful  and  we  go  before  him  alone,  and 
there  in  the  language  of  the  heart  tell  him 
we  love  him  and  we  want  his  help  in  doing 
right,  his  divine  emotions  well  up  within 


him,  and  in  his  unspeakable  majesty  and 
unqualified  mercy  he  takes  us  in  his  arms, 
as  it  were,  and  we  feel  the  warmth  and  the 
infinite  love  of  his  holy  person.  He  waits 
patiently,  but  anxiously  to  breathe  his  di- 
vine essence  into  the  human  heart  upon 
its  contrite  invitation.  Oh,  that  all  men 
could  have  ^s  experience. 

Secret  prayer  is  the  prayer  of  the  heart. 
Its  language  is  bathed  in  simplicity.  We 
kneel  before  our  heavenly  Father,  knowing 
that  before,  and  as  we  speak,  he  knows  our 
every  weakness  and  our  every  secret  desire. 
We  pray  to  him  in  the  light  of  this  knowl- 
edge. There  is  no  masquerade  in  secret 
prayer.  (Author  unknown.) 

Youth,  keep  your  faith  in  God.  Do 
not  allow  the  teachings  of  the  world, 
despondency,  or  discouragement  cause 
you  to  lose  your  faith  in  God  and  in 
his  Son,  Jesus  Christ. 

Men  who  lose  their  faith  are  of  all 
men  most  unhappy.  Youth,  you  will 
need  great  faith.  You  may  not  be  re- 
quired to  pull  a  handcart  across  the 
plains,  but  your  road  may  not  always 
be  easy,  and  you  will  need  great  faith 
in  God  to  face  the  trials  of  life.  Stay 
close  to  your  Father  in  heaven  and 
partake  of  his  Spirit  through  the  princi- 
ple of  prayer. 

I  bear  testimony  to  you  that  I  know 
God  lives,  and  I  know  when  I  live 
righteously,  I  can  feel  his  influence,  and 
I  know  when  I  waver,  the  Lord  is  not 
pleased. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  with  great  faith, 
that  we  may  live  close  to  him  at  all 
times,  that  we  may  remember  the  teach- 
ings of  this  conference,  I  htmibly  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric,  has  just  spoken  to 
us.  We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder 
Milton  R.  Hxmter,  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Marion  G.  Romney. 


128 

Tuesday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


Fourth  Day 


■-'T  IS  INDEED  with  humility,  my 
;  "3  brothers  and  sisters,  that  I 
I  occupy  this  position  this  after- 

noon. I  hiunbly  trust  and 
llte^.fe  P'"^y  that  the  Spirit  of  God 
IBWifiliirt         direct  the  things  which 

I  shall  say. 

If  I  were  to  ask  you  a  question  and 
if  each  of  you  could  answer  me  indi- 
vidually, I  wonder  what  your  answers 
would  be.  The  question  is,  What  is 
there  in  all  this  world  that  you  would 
rather  have?  In  other  words,  if  you 
had  one  wish,  and  if  that  one  wish 
could  be  granted,  what  would  it  be? 

I  recall  that  when  I  was  teaching 
students  at  the  LDS  Institute  of  Re- 
ligion at  Logan,  on  several  different 
occasions  I  asked  the  college  students 
the  question  which  I  have  just  asked 
you.  Almost  immediately  and  invariably 
those  fine  young  college  men  would 
reply,  "A  million  dollars,"  or  they 
would  say,  "A  Cadillac,"  or  something 
else  of  a  worldly  nature.  After  due 
consideration  of  this  problem,  we  al- 
ways came  to  a  united  conclusion  that 
material  things  of  this  world  are  not 
the  most  worth  while.  They  are  transi- 
tory; they  are  soon  gone.  Furthermore, 
material  things  do  not  supply  complete 
satisfaction  in  life.  Invariably  our  con- 
clusion was  that  the  spiritual  things 
are  the  most  worth  while.  They  are 
eternal. 

We  always  agreed  finally  with  the 
great  statement  made  by  Father  Lehi, 
wherein  he  said,  "Adam  fell  that  men 
mi^ht  be;  and  men  are,  that  they  may 
have  joy."  (2  Nephi  2:25.)  I  know  of 
no  other  statement  in  any  of  our  scrip- 
tures which  expresses  the  principal  pur- 
pose of  man's  existence  more  aptly  than 
does  that  one  made  by  Father  Lehi. 

I  believe  with  all  my  heart  that  God 
the  eternal  Father  wants  his  children 
on  this  earth  to  have  joy,  an  abundance 
of  joy.  I  believe,  also,  that  he  expects 


members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  we  who  have  taken 
upon  ourselves  the  name  of  Christ,  to 
live  an  abundant,  joyful,  happy  life. 
Our  lives  should  be  lived  in  such  a 
way  as  to  bring  to  us  a  fulness  of  joy 
todiay,  tomorrow,  next  week,  ten  years 
from  now,  a  hundred  years  from  now, 
a  thousand  years  from  now,  and  even 
throughout  the  eternities.  I  want  to 
remind  each  of  us  that  God  has  placed 
within  the  reach  of  the  members  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  the  possibili- 
ties of  that  joy,  that  perpetual  and 
eternal  joy,  if  we  will  just  obey  the 
laws  that  bring  that  joy  into  our  lives. 

Throughout  the  entire  history  of  man- 
kind, from  the  days  of  Adam  down  to 
the  present  time,  throughout  all  nations 
and  among  all  peoples,  there  has  been 
a  strong  urge  in  the  hearts  of  human 
beings  to  have  pleasure,  to  have  joy. 
They  have  tried  every  avenue  available 
to  man  to  satisfy  that  urge. 

I  suppose  that  the  vast  majority  of 
people  have  felt  that  if  they  could  ac- 
cumulate a  lot  of  wealth,  then  with 
that  money  they  could  buy  anything 
they  desired.  In  other  words,  they 
believe  that  an  abundant  life,  a  ful- 
ness of  joy  could  be  purchased  with  that 
wealth.  Numerous  people  have  struggled 
diligently  to  accumulate  wealth,  with 
the  result  that  many  of  them  have 
become  exceedingly  rich.  Some  of  them 
have  actually  worshiped  mammon. 
(Matt.  6:24;  19:17-26;  Luke  16:8-14; 
12:15-23.)  Doubtless  these  people  found 
that  that  wealth  brought  additional 
problems,  troubles,  and  sometimes  addi- 
tional sins.  In  most  cases  such  wealth 
and  the  love  for  it  brought  additional 
sorrow.  They  have  found  to  their  great 
regret  that  as  the  Savior  said,  "...  a 
man's  life  consisteth  not  in  the  abun- 
dance of  things  which  he  possesseth." 
(Luke  12:15.) 

I  recognize  the  fact  that  the  possession 
of  a  certain  amoimt  of  money  is  good. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


129 


The  Lord  wants  us  to  have  a  certain 
amount  of  the  material  things;  but  in 
modern  revelation  he  condemned  in 
strong  terms  the  selfish  rich  man,  as 
well  as  the  greedy  poor  man.  (D.  &  C. 
56:16-17.) 

Other  people  have  felt  that  they  could 
satisfy  that  urge  for  happiness  by  in- 
dulging all  of  their  physical  appetites; 
for  example,  even  some  Latter-day  Saints 
have  felt  that  they  could  satisfy  that 
inner  urge  for  happiness  by  breaking 
the  Word  of  Wisdom — by  satisfying 
their  appetite  for  tea,  coffee,  tobacco, 
and  liquor.  Certainly  many  of  them 
found  that  those  things  did  not  increase 
their  joy.  They  cut  off  many  of  their 
opportunities  for  an  abundant  life,  and 
especially  is  that  true  in  the  case  of 
using  alcohol.  The  devil  has  found  no 
better  tool  to  bring  about  poverty, 
misery,  and  divorce,  and  even  to  lead 
one  into  gross  sins,  than  the  use  of 
alcohol. 

Others  have  felt  that  by  indulging 
their  sexual  emotions,  by  committing 
adultery,  they  could  satisfy  that  inward 
xirge  for  happiness.  It  is  my  opinion 
that  such  self-indulgent  people,  without 
any  exception,  find  to  their  regret  and 
chagrin  that  sin  never  is  happiness. 
They  have  found  that  adulterers  become 
very  unhappy  in  this  life,  casting  from 
themselves  the  Spirit  of  God,  and,  as 
the  Savior  said,  their  final  status  will 
be  to  be  "  .  .  .  cast  down  to  hell  and 
suffer  the  wrath  of  Almighty  God  .  .  .  " 
with  the  other  sinners.  (Ibid.,  76:103- 
107;  63:16-18.) 

If  we  cannot  find  the  abundant  life 
and  complete  happiness  in  the  realm 
of  the  physical,  wherein  lies  the  basis 
of  happiness?  In  the  first  place,  I 
would  say  that  happiness  comes  from 
within,  and  not  from  without.  As  the 
good  book  says,  "...  as  he  [a  man] 
thinketh  in  his  heart,  so  is  he." 
(Proverbs  23:7.)  I  shall  paraphrase  that 
statement  by  saying,  "As  a  man  think- 
eth in  his  heart,  so  shall  his  joy  be- 
come." We  control  our  happiness  from 
within  by  our  thoughts  and  actions. 
People  can  be  happy  without  an 
abundance  of  material  things,  even 


living  under  the  most  meager  circum- 
stances, if  they  will  abide  by  the  laws 
whidi  bring  about  happiness. 

Now  I  would  like  to  point  out  some 
of  the  laws  upon  which  happiness  is 
based,  although  I  will  not  have  time 
to  point  out  all  of  them.  I  will  sug- 
gest, first,  as  Brother  Isaacson  has  just 
explained,  that  we  must  have  faith  if  we 
are  to  be  happy.  We  must  have  faith 
in  God  the  eternal  Father:  that  he  is 
actually  and  literally  the  Father  of  our 
spirits;  that  he  loves  us  abundantly; 
and  that  he  controls  within  his  hands, 
so  to  speak,  the  destiny  of  man  and  of 
nations.  We  must  have  faith  that  all 
will  go  well  under  his  divine  director- 
ship; and  that  his  divine  plan  will 
ultimately  be  fulfilled. 

We  must  have  faith  in  Jesus  Christ: 
faith  that  he  is  our  Lord,  our  Master, 
our  Savior,  our  Redeemer,  our  Advo- 
cate with  the  Father.  We  must  have 
faith  that  through  the  atoning  blood 
which  he  spilled,  he  gave  us  immortal- 
ity. We  will  rise  from  the  grave;  we 
will  live  again. 

Also,  we  must  have  faith  in  the  gos- 
pel plan  of  salvation  which  he  pro- 
claimed and  an  assurance  that  if  we 
render  obedience  to  that  gospel  plan 
we  shall  come  back  into  the  presence 
of  God  and  receive  a  glorious  exaltation 
and  a  fulness  of  joy. 

We  must  have  faith  in  our  fellow 
men. 

We  must  have  faith  in  ourselves: 
faith  that  we  can  accomplish  the  things 
which  we  righteously  take  into  our 
hearts  to  accomplish.  I  know  that  we 
may  meet  meiny  disappointments;  but 
if  we  are  to  be  happy,  we  cannot  take 
them  too  seriously.  We  must  take 
them,  so  to  speak,  on  the  chin,  and 
then  with  faith  in  our  hearts  continue 
forward. 

Along  with  that  faith,  we  must  have 
courage — courage  to  meet  the  world  with 
all  of  its  perplexing  problems  from  day 
to  day.  We  must  do  away  with  all  fear 
that  is  within  our  hearts.  Fear  is  a 
destroyer  of  happiness.  It  confuses  the 
mind.  It  brings  about  many  distresses. 


130  GENERAL  ( 

Tuesday,  April  6 

We  must  remember  and  do  as  God  told 
Joshua:  "...  Be  strong  and  of  a  good 
courage;  be  not  afraid,  neither  be  thou 
dismayed:  for  the  Lord  thy  God  is  with 
thee  whithersoever  thou  goest"  (Joshua 
1:9.)    That  is  my  faith. 

I  believe,  also,  that  another  basic 
root  of  happiness  is  good  health.  It 
is  quite  essential  to  a  fulness  of  joy. 
God  has  blessed  us  with  good  health, 
and  it  is  our  job  to  live  in  such  a  way 
as  to  maintain  that  health  that  we  may 
have  an  abimdance  of  joy  continuously. 
I  blow  there  are  some  people  who  are 
handicapped  with  poor  health,  and 
they  are  still  able  to  control  their 
thoughts  and  minds  in  such  a  way  that 
they  still  experience  a  great  amount  of 
joy.  However,  it  is  far  easier  to  expe- 
rience a  fulness  of  joy  if  our  health  is 
good. 

I  believe  that  one  of  the  basic  roots 
of  happiness  is  work.  When  God  gave 
Adam  the  commandment  that  he  should 
earn  his  bread  by  the  sweat  of  his  face, 
and  also  proclaimed  that  the  noxious 
weeds  and  other  similar  things  that 
were  placed  upon  the  earth,  and  the 
troubles  that  we  meet,  are  here  for 
our  own  good,  God  proclaimed  a  great 
truth.  I  know  of  no  thing  which  gives 
more  joy  to  our  hearts  than  to  have  a 
job  that  we  like,  and  to  do  that  job 
efficiently  and  well.  An  indescribable 
amount  of  peace  and  satisfaction  comes 
into  one's  heart  through  work  well 
done. 

President  McKay  yesterday  men- 
tioned one  vay  definite  item  basic  to 
happiness.  It  is  service.  Joy  comes  as 
a  result  of  serving  our  fellow  men.  We 
serve  our  God  through  service  to  his 
children.  There  is  nothing  sweeter  in 
all  the  world  than  the  spiritual  bless- 
ings which  come  to  us  as  the  result 
of  service,  as  the  result  of  losing  our 
lives  for  the  Master's  sake,  with  the 
promise  that  someday  we  shall  receive 
eternal  life. 

The  last  basic  item  that  I  will  men- 
tion— and  it  is  rather  inclusive  and  a 
very  large  one,  if  we  are  to  be  happy 
today,  tomorrow,  next  week,  continuous- 


Pourth  Day 

ly,  and  eternally — is:  We  must  keep 
all  of  God's  commandments.  In  other 
words,  we  must  render  obedience  to 
"...  every  word  that  proceedeth  forth 
from  the  mouth  of  God."  (D.  &  C. 
84:44.)  You  and  I  have  joined  the 
true  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  have 
taken  upon  ourselves  the  name  of  the 
Master  and  have  entered  into  a  cove- 
nant to  keep  all  of  his  commandments. 
The  Savior  came  into  this  world,  ac- 
cording to  his  own  statement,  to  give 
us  life  more  abundantly — in  other 
words,  that  we  might  have  joy,  an 
abundance  of  joy,  a  continuance  of  joy. 
Thus  it  is  essential  that  we  follow  the 
pathway  which  the  Son  of  Man  marked 
out  for  us  if  we  are  to  receive  that 
abundant  life  which  is  a  fulness  of 
joy. 

We  must  learn  to  love  the  Lord  our 
God  with  all  of  our  hearts,  might, 
mind,  and  strength.  (Matt.  22:37- 
38.)  We  must  abide  by  that  Golden 
Rule  (ibid.,  7:12)  and  learn  to  love 
our  neighbors  as  ourselves.  {Ibid., 
22:39.)  In  this  way,  and  in  this  way 
only,  shall  we  have  a  fulness  of  joy. 
There  is  no  other  road. 

The  night  before  the  Savior's  cruci- 
fixion, he  said  to  his  Apostles,  "Peace 
I  leave  with  you,  my  peace  I  give  unto 
you:  not  as  the  world  giveth,  give  I 
unto  you."  (John  14:27.)  It  is  the 
peace  that  comes  through  the  Spirit  of 
Jesus  Christ;  it  is  the  light  of  Christ 
that  enters  into  our  hearts,  that  gives 
us  a  joy — as  the  prophets  have  pro- 
claimed— "  .  . .  which  passeth  all  under- 
standing. ..."  (Philippians  4:7.) 

Also,  in  addition  to  the  Spirit  of 
Christ,  we  have  received  the  Holy  Ghost, 
a  Comforter,  to  comfort  us  in  time  of 
distress.  This  Comforter  brings  a  Godly 
peace  into  our  hearts. 

So  again  I  will  say,  my  dear  brothers 
and  sisters,  God  has  placed  within  yoiu* 
hands  and  my  hands,  as  members  of 
his  kingdom,  the  way  to  find  joy,  the 
way  of  life,  the  way  of  life  more 
abundantly.  I  do  humbly  ask  him  to 
bless  you  and  me,  that  we  will  keep 
all  of  the  commandments,  that  we  will 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


131 


abide  by  all  of  the  laws  basic  to  hap- 
piness. May  we  make  effective  in  our 
lives  Lehi's  statement  that  "Adam  fell 
that  men  might  be;  and  men  are,  that 
they  might  have  joy."  (2  Nephi  2:25.) 

And  this  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


Presidrat  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  concluded 
speakings  We  shall  now  hear  from 
Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


w  YOU  WHO  are  listening  in 
over  radio  and  looking  in  by 
television,  I  extend  the  hand 
of  fellowship.  I  sincerely 
pray  that  while  I  speak  to 
you  a  few  moments,  I  may 
say  something  which  will  be  beneficial 
to  you  and  which,  perhaps  (and  this  is 
my  greatest  desire),  will  stimulate  you 
to  think  of  things  of  eternal  value  and 
renew  in  you  a  determination  to  live 
to  obtain  them. 

To  you  who  are  assembled  together 
in  this  historic  Tabernacle  I  extend  the 
same  greeting.  I  marvel  at  your  faith- 
fulness, your  willingness  to  return  to 
this  meetinghouse  on  this  mid-week 
day  and  listen  to  more  preaching.  I 
think  you  are  the  group  who  would 
attend  the  second  session  in  a  stake 
conference. 

Seeing  you  here,  and  realizing  that 
many  of  you  attended  the  Primary  con- 
ference, so  that  now  you  have  been  in 
meetings  constantly  for  five  days,  I  am 
reminded  of  an  experience  my  wife 
and  I  had  one  time  as  we  rode  from 
St.  George  to  Cedar  City.  The  driver 
of  the  automobile  in  which  we  rode 
had  with  him  his  little  boy,  who  was 
just  tall  enough  to  stand  on  his  feet 
and  look  out  through  the  windshield. 
He  wore  cowboy  chaps  and  a  cowboy 
hat.  His  father  told  us  of  two  things 
he  liked  to  do — one  was  to  put  on  his 
cowboy  clothes  and  ride  his  pony,  and 
the  other  was  to  go  to  picture  shows.  It 
was  difficult  to  persuade  him  to  termi- 
nate either  experience  when  he  got  at  it. 
They  would  try  to  get  him  home  after 
he  had  seen  a  show  through  once,  but 
he  continued  to  stay  on. 


One  Sunday  morning  after  Sunday 
School,  he  went  home.  His  mother 
had  gone  to  fast  meeting,  which  fol- 
lowed Sunday  School.  The  boy  took 
off  his  Sunday  clothes  and  put  on  his 
cowboy  clothes  and  then  looked  for 
something  to  eat.  Not  finding  what 
he  wanted,  he  returned  to  the  meeting- 
house to  find  his  mother.  Spying  her 
as  he  came  down  the  aisle,  he  said,  in 
a  rather  loud  voice,  "Mother,  why 
don't  you  come  home?  Are  you  gouoK 
to  stay  here  and  see  this  thing  throu^ 
three  times?" 

Gathered  together  here  as  we  are, 
and  remembering  the  sustaining  of  a 
member  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve 
and  an  assistant  to  that  Quorum,  I  can- 
not help  feeling  the  loss  of  Brother 
Cowley.  We  listened  here  just  six 
months  ago  to  his  golden  voice.  I  want 
to  read  to  you  one  paragraph  from  his 
final  message.  I  think  it  is  significant 
for  many  reasons.  One  is  that  in  this 
paragraph  he  mentioned  Brother  Morris, 
who  today  fills  the  vacancy  left  in  the 
Quorum  by  his  passing.  We  may  be 
able  to  catch  in  this  excerpt  something 
of  his  eloquence  and  of  his  humility. 

We  have  heard  the  prayer  of  the  Prophet 
referred  to  this  morning.  Here  was  a  young 
lad  who  believed  in  a  promise  that  if  any 
man  lacked  wisdom  and  would  ask  of  God, 
it  would  be  given  to  him;  and  in  response 
to  that  injunction  he  took  himself  out  into 
that  grove,  away  from  the  superficial  struc- 
tures of  men,  and  he  didn't  stand  looking 
into  heaven;  he  bowed  upon  the  bended 
knees  of  his  body,  and  he  offered  up  his 
prayer  to  God  his  Father  to  bring  clearness 
<rf  vision  to  his  mind,  to  divest  from  his 
mind  the  confusion  which  existed  tha« 


132  GENERAL  ( 

Tuesday,  April  8 

pertaining  to  religion.  How  can  people 
doubt  that  God  heard  that  prayer?  Any- 
one who  would  question  that  God  heard 
the  prayer  of  that  boy  must  believe  that  the 
Father  in  heaven  is  cruel  and  shuts  himself 
away  from  his  children  when  they  seek 
him.  But  he  did  hear  that  prayer,  and  as 
Elder  Morris  has  mentioned,  the  light  burst 
from  heaven;  down  through  that  channel 
of  light  came  the  Father  and  the  Son.  Young 
people,  if  you  prayed  for  your  father  to 
come  in  your  hour  of  need,  would  he  hide 
from  you?  Of  course  not.  Neither  will 
our  Father  who  is  in  heaven  hide  from  us 
who  seek  him  out. 

God  grant  that  we  may  always  have  the 
spirit  of  prayer  in  our  hearts.  (The  Im- 
provement Era,  December  1953,  p.  962.) 

I  extend  to  Brother  Morris  a  hearty 
welcome  as  he  comes  into  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve.  I  have  loved  him  for 
a  long  time.  I  remember  some  years 
ago  attending  a  meeting  where  he  ad- 
dressed a  group  of  Scout  leaders.  He 
said  there  something  which  still  lingers 
in  my  mind.  He  was  talking  about 
boys  who  had  been  brought  into  the 
Church  through  the  activities  of  that 
organization,  about  their  conversion,  and 
then  he  said  this,  in  substance:  That  not 
only  had  boys  been  converted  from  out 
of  the  Church,  but  that  many  boys  born 
in  the  Church  had  been  converted. 
Then  he  emphasized  the  truth  that 
whether  one  is  born  in  the  Church  or 
out  of  the  Church,  he  must  be  converted 
in  order  to  receive  the  blessings  of 
heaven. 

I  welcome  Elder  Sill  into  the  Councils 
of  the  Church.  I  have  known  him  for 
nineteen  years  now.  Bad:  in  those  d&ys 
he  and  I  were  companion  bishops  serv- 
ing under  President  Joseph  L.  WntKlin, 
who  was  then  our  stake  president.  I 
knovr  of  his  ability  and  or  his  loyalty. 
I  know  that  he  never  let  his  tithing  go 
unpaid.  I  remember  an  occasion  when 
he  consulted  me  about  it  at  the  end  of 
the  year,  when  some  of  his  calculations 
had  gone  wrong,  and  he  did  not  have 
the  ready  cash  to  pay  his  tithing  in 
full.  We  talked  it  over,  and  he  wait 
to  the  bank  and  borrowed  the  money  to 
make  it  up.  I  am  sure  he  will  render 
a  great  service. 


Fourth  Day 

As  I  sat  here  in  this  conference  and 
realized  that  it  was  drawing  to  a  close, 
I  thought  of  what  I  might  say  here  in 
these  closing  moments  which  would  be 
of  worth  to  the  people  of  the  Church, 
and  this  statement  from  the  Prophet 
came  to  my  mind: 

It  is  one  thing  to  be  on  the  mount  and 
hear  the  excellent  voice,  etc.,  and  another 
to  hear  the  voice  declare  to  you.  You  have 
a  part  and  lot  in  that  kingdom.  (D.  H.  C. 
5:403.) 

That  passage  from  the  Prophet's 
writings  has  been  on  my  mind  a  great 
deal.  He  gave  it  at  the  end  of  a  long 
sermon,  in  which  he  had  been  urging 
the  people  of  his  day  to  make  their 
calling  and  their  election  sure.  He  him- 
self had  made  his  calling  and  election 
sure. 

The  Lord  said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  on  one  occasion, 

For  I  am  the  Lord  thy  God,  and  will  be 
with  thee  even  unto  the  end  of  the  world, 
and  through  all  eternity;  for  verily  I  seal 
upon  you  your  exaltation,  and  prepare  a 
throne  for  you  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father, 
with  Abraham  your  father.  (D.  &  C.  132:49.) 

And  then  the  Lord  specifies  in  the 
next  sentence  the  conditions  that 
brought  that  great  blessing  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph.- 

Behold,  I  have  seen  your  sacrifices,  and 
will  forgive  all  your  sins;  I  have  seen  your 
sacrifices  in  obedience  to  that  whicai  I 
have  told  you.  Qbid..  132:50.) 

He  gave  that  same  witness  to  Heber 
C.  Kimball.  I  suppose  that  a  man  who 
had  that  witness  would  be  enjoying 
the  more  sure  word  of  prophecy,  which 
the  Prophet  defines  as 

...  a  man's  knowing  that  he  is  sealed  up 
unto  eternal  life,  by  revelation  and  the 
spirit  of  prophecy,  through  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Priesthood.  (Jbid.,  131:5.) 

In  this  conference  we  have  been 
greatly  entertained  at  times  with  elo- 
quent oratory.  We  have  been  tat^t 
by  great  teachers.  We  have  heard 
enough  truth  and  direction  in  this  con- 
ference to  bring  us  into  the  presence  of 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


133 


God  if  we  would  follow  it.  We  have 
been  taken  on  to  the  spiritual  moun- 
tain and  shown  visions  of  great  glory, 
but  how  many  of  us  have  heard  that 
voice  sayinjg  we  would  have  a  part 
therein. 

I  want  to  read  a  text  by  which  we 
may  test  ourselves  today  and  always  as 
to  where  we  stand  with  reference  to  our 
faith  and  belief  in  God.  It  is  the  25th 
verse  of  the  64th  Section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants: 

Wherefore,  if  ye  believe  me,  ye  will  labor 
while  it  is  called  today. 

In  the  two  paragraphs  whidi  precede 
it,  the  Lord  makes  clear  three  things: 
Firsti  the  TOeaning  of  the  word  todoi/ 
as  used  in  die  text;  second,  certain  things 
which  his  people  should  do  today;  and 
third,  some  events  which  will  come  to 
pass  tomorrow.  Here  are  his  words: 

Behold,  now  it  is  called  today  until  the 
coming  of  the  Son  of  Man,  and  verily  it  is 
a  day  of  sacrifice,  and  a  day  for  the  tithing 
of  my  people;  for  he  that  is  tithed  shall  not 
be  burned  at  his  coming. 
;  For  after  today  cometh  the  burning  .  .  . 
for  verily  I  say,  tomorrow  all  the  proud 
and  they  that  do  wickedly  shall  be  as 
stubble;  and.  I  will  bimi'thein  up,  for  I  am 
the  Lord  of  Hosts;  and  I  will  not  spare  any 
that  remain  in  Babylon. 

And  then  follows  our  text: 

Wherefore,  if  ye  believe  me,  ye  will  labor 
while  it  is  called  today.  (Ibid.,  64:23-25.) 

I  have  in  my  heart  a  desire  to  empha- 
size the  importance  of  doing  the  will  of 
God  now  while  today  lasts.  Perhaps 
more  hangs  upon  what  a  man  does 
during  the  short  period  of  his  mortal 
probation  than  upon  his  performance  in 
any  other  period  of  equal  duration 
since  the  spirit  hosts  took  sides  in  the 
great  war  in  heaven. 

Amulek,  Alma's  missionary  compan- 
ion, speaks  to  this  subject  as  follows: 

.  .  .  now  is  the  time  and  the  day  of  your 
salvation;  ... 

■  For  behold,  this  life  is  the  time  for  men 
to  prepare  to  meet  God;  yea,  behold,  the 


day  of  tUs  life  is  the  day  for  men  to  per^ 
form  their  labors. 

...  therefore,  I  beseech  of  you  that  ye  do 
not  procrastinate  the  day  of  your  repentance 
until  the  end;  for  after  this  day  of  life, 
which  is  given  us  to  prepare  for  eternity, 
behold,  if  we  do  not  improve  our  time 
while  in  this  life,  then  cometh  the  night  of 
darkness  wherein  there  can  be  no  labor  per- 
formed. (Ahna  34:31-33.) 

Nephi  taught  this  same  doctrine  and 
went  one  step  farther.  He  declared 
that  we  must  not  only  labor  in  this  life, 
but  that  we  must  also  continue  that 
labor  until  the  end  of  life.  He  pointed 
out  that  the  gate  by  which  one  enters 
upon  the  straight  and  narrow  path  is 
repentance  and  baptism  by  water  and 
of  fire  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  then 
continued: 

And  now,  my  beloved  brethren,  after  ye 
have  gotten  into  this  straight  and  narrow 
path,  I  would  ask  if  all  is  done?  Behold,  I 
say  unto  you.  Nay; ... 

...  ye  must  press  forward  with  a  stead- 
fastness in  Christ,  having  a  perfect  bright- 
ness of  hope,  and  a  love  of  God  and  of  all 
men.  Wherefore,  if  ye  shall  press  forward, 
feasting  upon  the  word  of  Christ,  and  en- 
cftire  to  the  end,  behold,  thus  saith  the 
Father:  Ye  shall  have  eternal  life.  (2  Nephi 
31:19-20.) 

And  now,  my  beloved  brethren,  I  know 
by  this  that  unless  a  man  shall  endure  to 
the  end,  in  following  the  eicample  of  the 
Son  of  ie  living  God,  he  cannot  be  saved. 
(Ibid.,  31:16.) 

Mormon's  performance,  along  with 
his  counsel  to  his  son  Moroni,  is  an 
heroic  example  of  one's  continuing  unto 
the  end  under  the  most  trying  circum- 
stances. You  will  recall  that  it  was 
Mormon  who  led  the  degenerate 
Nephites  in  their  final  straggle  against 
the  Lamanites.  And  a  discouraging  and 
thankless  job  it  was!  As  he  approached 
the  inevitable  end,  he  wrote  to  his  be- 
loved son  Moroni,  advising  that  he  had 
just  fought  an  important  battle  in  which 
he  did  not  conquer,  and  in  which  three 
of  his  most  valiant  leaders  and  a  great 
number  of  his  choice  men  had  been 
killed.  He  continued, 


134  GENERAL< 

Tuesiay.  April  6 

And  now  behold,  my  son,  I  fear  lest  the 
Lamanites  shall  destroy  this  people;  for 
they  do  not  repent,  and  Satan  stirreth 
them  up  continually  to  anger  one  with  an- 
other. 

Behold,  I  am  laboring  with  them  con- 
tinually; and  when  I  speak  the  word  of 
God  with  sharpness  they  tremble  and 
anger  against  me;  and  when  I  use  no  sharp- 
ness they  harden  their  hearts  against  it; 
wherefore,  I  fear  lest  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
hath  cea»ed  striving  with  them. 

For  so  exceedingly  do  they  anger  that  it 
seemeth  me  that  they  have  no  fear  of 
death;  and  they  have  lost  their  love,  one 
towards  another;  and  they  thirst  after 
blood  and  revenge  continually.  (Moroni 
9:3-5.) 

Then,  notwithstanding  these  dis- 
couraging circumstances,  he  declares  his 
intention  to  continue  to  labor  and 
encourages  his  son  Moroni  to  do  likewise. 
Listen  to  his  plea  and  take  courage 
therefrom: 

And  now,  my  beloved  son,  notwithstand- 
ing their  hardness,  let  us  labor  diligently; 
for  if  we  should  cease  to  labor,  we  should 
be  brought  under  condemnation;  for  we 
have  a  labor  to  perform  whilst  in  this 
tabernacle  of  clay,  that  we  may  conquer  the 
enemy  of  all  righteousness,  and  rest  our 
souls  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  (Ibid.,  9:6.) 

In  the  light  of  these  teachings,  it 
would  seem  to  be  most  tmwise  to  rely 
upon  the  doctrine  of  the  so-called  second 
daance  and  wait  until  after  death  to  per- 
form our  good  works.  I  am  acquainted 
with  the  doctrine  that  those  who  have 
had  no  opportimity  to  hear  and  receive 
the  gospel  in  this  life  will  have  that 
opportunity  in  the  world  to  come,  and 
I  rejoice  in  it.  I  rejoice  in  the  vision 
and  the  revelation  received  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  on  the  21st  day 
of  January  1836,  which  teaches  this 
doctrine.  The  Prophet  reported  that 
vision  and  that  revelation  in  part  as 
follows: 

The  heavens  were  opened  upon  us,  and 
I  beheld  the  celestial  kingdom  of  God,  and 
the  glory  thereof  ...  I  saw  the  transcendent 
beauty  of  the  gate  through  which  the  heirs 
of  that  kingdom  will  enter,  which  was  like 
unto  circling  flames  of  fire;  also  the  blazing 
throne  of  God,  whereon  was  seated  the 


Fourth  Day 

Father  and  the  Son.  I  saw  the  beautiful 
streets  of  that  kingdom,  which  had  the  ap- 
pearance of  being  paved  with  gold.  I  saw 
Fathers  Adam  and  Abraham,  and  my  father 

and  mother,  my  brother,  Alvin,  that  has 
long  since  slept,  and  marvelled  how  it  was 
that  he  had  obtained  an  inheritance  in  that 
kingdom,  seeing  that  he  had  departed  this 
life  before  the  Lord  had  set  His  hand  to 
gather  Israel  the  second  time,  and  had  not 
been  baptized  for  the  remission  of  sins. 

Thus  came  the  voice  of  the  Lord  unto 
me,  saying — 

"All  who  have  died  without  a  knowledge 
of  this  Gospel,  who  would  have  received 
it  if  they  had  been  permitted  to  tarry,  shall 
be  heirs  of  the  celestial  kingdom  of  God; 
also  all  that  shall  die  henceforth  without  a 
knowledge  of  it,  who  would  have  received 
it  with  all  their  hearts,  shall  be  heirs  of 
that  kingdom,  for  I,  the  Lord,  will  judge 
all  men  according  to  their  works,  accordii^ 
to  the  desire  of  their  hearts."  (D.  H.  C. 
2:380.) 

All  this  I  accept  with  joy.  However,, 
it  does  not  teach,  and  I  have  never  found 
anything  in  the  scriptiu'es  nor  in  the 
teachings  of  the  prophets  which  en- 
courages me  to  believe,  that  those  who 
have  the  gospel  taught  to  them  here 
will  be  able  to  make  up  their  loss  if 
they  choose  to  wait  for  the  next  life 
to  obey  it.  I  would  not  advise  anyone 
to  take  that  chance.  As  I  imderstand 
the  scriptures,  taking  such  a  hazard 
would  be  fatal. 

Amulek,  after  speaking  of  "the  night 
of  darkness  wherein  there  can  be  no 
labor  performed,"  added: 

Ye  cannot  say,  when  ye  are  brought  to 
that  awful  crisis,  that  I  will  repent,  that  I 
will  return  to  my  God.  Nay,  ye  cannot 
say  this;  for  that  same  spirit  which  doth 
possess  your  bodies  at  the  time  that  ye  go 
out  of  mis  life,  that  same  spirit  will  have 
power  to  possess  your  body  in  that  eternal 
world. 

For  behold,  if  ye  have  procrastinated  the 
day  of  your  repentance  even  until  death, 
behold,  ye  have  become  subjected  to  the 
spirit  of  the  devil,  and  he  doth  seal  you 
his;  therefore,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  hath 
withdrawn  from  you,  and  hath  no  place 
in  you,  and  the  devil  hath  all  power  over 
you;  and  this  is  the  final  state  of  the 
wicked.  (Ahna  34:34-35.) 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


135 


On  this  point  of  deferring  obedience 
to  the  gospel,  we  might  with  profit  con- 
sider the  Savior's  parable  of  the  ten 
virgins.  I  do  not  remember  any  pro- 
vision being  made  in  that  parable  for 
the  five  foolish  virgins  to  enter  into  the 
marriage  at  a  later  time.  I  do  remem- 
ber, however,  that  after  the  door  was 
shut  they,  having  in  the  meantime  filled 
their  lamps  with  oil,  came  saying,  "Lord, 
Lord,  open  to  us,"  and  that  his  answer 
was,  "Verily  I  say  unto  you,  I  know  you 
not."  (See  Matt.  25:1-13.) 

In  1831  the  Lord  continued  with  the 
lesson  he  had  in  mind  to  teach  with  this 
parable.  Speaking  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  he  specified  some  of  the  bless- 
ings to  be  received  by  the  five  wise 
virgins.   Said  he: 

And  at  that  day,  when  I  shall  come  in 
my  glory,  shall  the  parable  be  fulfilled 

which  I  spake  concerning  the  ten  virgins. 

For  they  that  are  wise  and  have  received 
the  truth,  and  have  taken  the  Holy  Spirit 
for  their  guide,  and  have  not  been  de- 
ceived— verily  I  say  unto  you,  they  shall  not 
be  hewn  down  and  cast  into  the  fire,  but 
shall  abide  the  day. 

And  the  earth  shall  be  ^ven  unto  them 
for  an  inheritance;  and  they  shall  multiply 
and  wax  strong,  and  their  children  shall 
grow  up  without  sin  unto  salvation. 

For  the  Lord  shall  be  in  their  midst, 
and  his  glory  shall  be  upon  them,  and  he 
will  be  their  king  and  their  lawgiver. 
(D.  &  C.  45:56-59.) 

No  mention  is  made  in  this  revelation 
of  the  whereabouts  of  the  foolish 
virgins.  Said  the  Prophet  Joseph, 

If  men  would  acquire  salvation  they  have 
got  to  be  subject,  before  they  leave  this 
world,   to   certain   rules   and  principles. 


which  were. fixed  by  an  unalterable  decree 
before  the  world  was. 

[Otherwise]  the  disappointment  of  hopes 
and  expectations  at  the  resurrection  would 
be  indescribably  dreadfuL  (D.  H.  C.  6:50- 
51.) 

In  view  of  these  teachings  and  the 
many  others  which  carry  the  message 
that  today  is  the  day  for  us  to  perform 
our  labors,  it  would  seem  to  be  wisdom 
on  the  part  of  every  soul  who  has  been 
taught  the  gospel,  to  here  and  now 
make  a  daily  conscious  and  sincere  ef- 
fort to  live  it.  And  this  effort  should 
continue  to  the  end  of  mortal  life.  Fail- 
ing to  make  such  an  effort,  a  person 
identifies  himself  as  one  who  does  not 
believe  the  Lord,  for,  said  he,  "...  if 
ye  believe  me,  ye  will  labor  while  it  is 
called  today." 

That  we  may,  by  laboring  today,  in- 
herit the  great  blessings  we  have  heard 
so  much  about  in  this  conference,  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Gfu:ist. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Marion 
G.  Romney  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 

The  Congregation  will  now  join  with 
the  Singing  Mothers  in  singing  "Come 
O  Thou  Kings  of  Kings,"  under  the  di- 
rection of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall. 

After  the  singing  Elder  Delbert  L. 
Stapley  will  speak  to  us; 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
and  the  congregation  joined  in  singing 
the  hymn,  "Come,  O  Thou  King  of 
Kings." 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


ASSURE  YOU,  my  brothers  and 
and  sisters,  the  southern 
route  to  this  stand  is  no 
shorter  than  the  northern 
route.  I  find  it  rather  diffi- 
cult to  be  in  the  caboose  of 
conference  speakers,  particularly  because 


I  am  sitting  on  the  last  seat,  realizing 
th^t  many  of  my  brethren  have  already 
given  part  of  my  message  to  yoiu 

Through  this  conference  my  mind  has 
been  upon  Brother  Cowley.  .1  want  to 
say  to  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  he 
was  a  man  of  God,  one  who  exemplified 


136  GENERAL  ( 

Tuesday^  April  6 

the  calling  of  apostleship  in  a  high  de- 
gree. We  loved  him;  he  was  loved  by 
the  people.  We  were  stirred  by  his  in- 
spiring messages. 

Today  I  am  glad  to  welcome  into  our 
Council  Brother  George  Q.  Morris  to 
fill  the  vacancy  caused  by  Brother  Cow- 
ley's passing.  Brother  Morris  is  a  strong 
and  devoted  leader.  He  brings  great 
strength  and  wisdom  to  our  council. 
With  all  my  heart  I  support  and  sustain 
him,  and  offer  him  my  help. 

I  welcome  also  Brother  Sterling  W. 
Sill.  I  am  sure  he  will  add  greatly  to 
the  General  Authorities  in  the  quality 
of  service  and  devotion  he  gives  to  the 
people  of  the  Church. 

Last  Friday  we  had  the  delightful 
opportunity  of  listening  to  the  reports 
and  testimonies  of  the  mission  presi- 
dents. These  nien,  under  the  direction 
of  the  Twelve,  are  responsible  for  the 
missionary  program  of  the  Church, 
which  answers  the  charge  of  the  Re- 
deemer to  his  Church  of  the  latter  days 
to  proclaim  the  message  of  the  restored 
gospel  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue, 
and  people. 

The  Lord  said  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  for  the  elders  of  this 
Church  to  open  their  mouths  and  say 
to  the  world. 

Repent,  repent,  and  prepare  ye  the  way 
of  the  Lord,  and  make  his  paths  straight; 
for  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is  at  hand; 

Yea,  repent  and  be  baptized,  every  one  of 
you,  for  a  remission  of  your  sins;  yea,  be 
baptized  even  by  water,  and  then  cometh 
the  baptism  of  fire  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
*  Behold,  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  this 
is  my  gospel;  and  remember  that  they  shall 
have  faith  in  me  or  they  can  in  nowise  be 
saved; 

And  upon  this  rock  I  will  build  my 
church;  yea,  upon  this  rock  ye  are  built, 
and  if  ye  continue,  the  gates  of  hell  shall 
not  prevail  against  you. 

And  ye  shall  remember  the  church  articles 
and  covenants  to  keep  them.  (D.  &  C.  33: 
10-14.) 

May  I  paraphrase  that  verse:  "And 
ye  shall  remember  the  church  articles 
(the  laws,  commandments,  and  doc- 
trines) and  covenants  (the  covenant 


Fourth  Day 

of  baptism,  sacrament,  priesthood,  and 
of  the  temple,  and  all  other  holy  ordi- 
nances) to  keep  them." 

Wherefore,  be  faithful,  prayW  always, 
having  your  lamps  trjjwnd  ano  jjurning, 
and  oil  with  you,  that  you  miay  Be  ready  at 
the  coming  of  the  Brid^rbom.  (Ibid.,  33:17.) 

The  Savior,  appearing  to  the  Nephites 
on  this,  the  American  continent,  said, 

...  ye  know  the  things  that  ye  must  do 
in  my  church;  for  the  works  which  ye 
have  seen  me  do  that  shall  ye  also  do;  .  .  . 

Therefore,  if  ye  do  these  things  blessed 
are  ye,  for  ye  shall  be  lifted  up  at  the  last 
day.  (3  Nephi  27:21-22.) 

The  Lord  again  counseled  the  Ne- 
pliites: 

Therefore,  whatsoever,  ye  shall  do,  j*  shall 
do  it  in  my  name;  therefore  ye  shall  call  the 
church  in  my  name;  and  ye  shall  call  upoiii 
the  Father  in  my  name  mat  he  will  bless 

the  church  for  my  sake. 

And  hovi'  be  it  my  church  save  it  be 
called  in  my  name?  For  if  a  church  be 
called  in  Moses'  name  then  it  be  Moses' 
church;  or  if  it  be  called  in  the  name  of 
a  man  then  it  be  the  church  of  a  man;  but 
if  it  be  called  in  my  name  then  it  is  my 
chiu-ch, 

and  then  the  Lord  adds  this  significant 
phrase, 

if  it  so  be  that  they  are  build  upon  my 

gospel. 

And  if  it  so  be  that  the  church  is  built 
upon  my  gospel  then  will  the  Father  show 
forth  his  own  works  in  it.  (Ibid.,  27:7-8,  10.) 

My  brothers  and  sisterSj  I  testify  that 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  is  built  upon  the  true  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  It  does  bear  his  name  and 
does  show  forth  the  works  of  God  in  it. 
I  call  your  attention  to  the  specific  and 
general  information  given  Sunday  morn- 
ing by  President  McKay  of  the  growth 
and  the  progress  of  the  Church.  The 
Church  provides  for  the  temporal  and 
spiritual  needs  of  its  people.  Its  mission- 
aries bear  the  gospel  message  to  all  na- 
tions. It  is  set  up  after  the  organization 
of  the  primitive  Church,  with  prophets, 
apostles,  evangelists,  etc.,  and  with  au- 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


137 


thority  divinely  bestowed  through  the 
priesthood  of  God  to  officiate  in  all  the 
saving  ordinances  of  the  gospel  to  per- 
fect and  exalt  man. 

We  learn  in  the  writings  of  Nephi 
that  Satan  has  no  power  over  the  hearts 
of  people  who  dwell  in  righteousness. 
The  evil  and  wickedness  present  in  the 
world  today  show  the  power  Satan  has 
over  the  hearts  of  people,  and  therefore 
the  promotion  of  righteousness  among 
men  is  the  important  duty  of  God's  serv- 
ants, and  thus  they  prepare  all  his  chil- 
dren against  the  days  of  tribulation  pre- 
ceding the  Savior's  coming  to  earth 
again. 

Nephi  again  admonished  his  people: 

For  the  gate  by  which  ye  should  enter  is 
repentance  and  baptism  by  water;  and  then 
cometh  a  remission  of  your  sins  by  fire 
and  by  the  Holy  Ghost. 

And  now,  my  beloved  brethren,  after  ye 
have  gotten  into  this  straight  and  narrow 
path,  I  would  ask  if  all  is  done?  Behold, 
I  say  unto  you,  Nay;  for  ye  have  not  come 
thus  far  save  it  were  by  the  word  of  Christ 
with  unshaken  faith  in  him,  relying  wholly 
upon  the  merits  of  him  who  is  mighty  to 
save. 

Wherefore,  ye  must  press  forward  with  a 
steadfastness  in  Christ,  having  a  perfect 
brightness  of  hope,  and  a  love  of  God  and 
of  all  men.  Wherefore,  if  ye  shall  press 
forward,  feasting  upon  the  word  of  Christ, 
and  endure  to  the  end,  behold,  thus  saith 
the  Father:  Ye  shall  have  eternal  life. 
(2  Nephi  31:17,  19-20.) 

The  beloved  King  Benjamin  counseled 
his  people: 

...  I  would  desire  that  ye  should  consider 
on  the  blessed  and  happy  state  of  those  that 
keep  the  commandments  of  God.  For  be- 
hold, they  are  blessed  in  all  things,  both 
temporal  and  spiritual;  and  if  they  hold 
out  faithful  to  the  end  they  are  received 
into  heaven,  that  thereby  they  may  dwell 
with  God  in  a  state  of  never-ending  happi- 
ness. O  remember,  remember  that  these 
things  are  true;  for  the  Lord  God  hath 
spoken  it  (Moslah  2:41.) 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  would  plead 
for  faith  on  the  part  of  the  membership 
of  this  ChOTch,  the  faith  that  is  typical 
of  a  child,  teachable,  eager  to  learn. 


willing  to  accept  and  to  obey,  not  blind- 
ly, but  with  imderstanding.  I  am  plead- 
ing with  you  who  have  entered  into  the 
straight  and  narrow  path  through  faith, 
repentance,  baptism,  and  receiving  the 
Holy  Ghost,  to  press  forward  and  worth- 
ily comply  with  every  ordinance  of  the 
gospel. 

If  men  were  offered  material  riches 
as  a  reward  for  years  of  devoted  service, 
no  doubt  a  decision  to  accept  would  be 
promptly  given,  even  though  the  price 
to  be  paid  might  overtax  their  strength 
and  undermine  their  health.  God  offers 
eternal  life,  glory,  exaltation,  and  the 
association  of  himself  and  Son  as  a  re- 
ward to  those  who  diligently  serve  him 
to  the  end  of  their  days.  He  has  no 
greater  gift  to  bestow.  Yet,  because  of 
the  intangible  nature  of  this  gift  and 
the  weakness  of  people's  faith,  they  fail 
to  accept  and  follow  the  conditions  to 
obtain  this  state  of  peace  and  happiness 
in  celestial  glory. 

If  men  will  open  their  hearts  to  truth, 
the  Holy  Ghost  will  stimulate  their 
faith  to  accept  the  revelations  and  follow 
the  counsel  of  divinely  appointed  lead- 
ers. Faith  is  a  gift  from  God,  to  be 
earnestly  sought  for.  It  cannot  be  the 
type  of  faith  exhibited  by  Thomas,  who 
would  not  accept  his  fellow  workers' 
word  that  Jesus  had  risen  and  appeared 
unto  them,  unless  he  had  the  privilege 
of  feeling  the  prints  of  the  nails  in  his 
hands  and  thrusting  his  own  hand  into 
the  side  of  the  Savior.  It  cannot  be  the 
type  of  faith  of  those  who  seek  after  signs 
upon  which  they  might  establish  faith. 

The  Lord  revealed  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  121  years  ago  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  the  Lord's  law  of  health,  show- 
ing forth  the  order  and  will  of  God  in 
the  temporal  salvation  of  all  Saints  in 
the  last  days  and  given  for  a  principle 
with  promise.  Many  have  doubted,  and 
by  their  acts  have  refused  to  accept  this 
revelation  to  be  a  word  of  wisdom.  The 
inviting  advertising  appeal  and  enticing 
claims  of  tobacco  interests  are  listened 
to  and  accepted  by  men  and  women 
against  their  Creator's  revealed  truth 
that  tobacco  is  not  good  for  man.  But 
now  that  science  is  proving  cancer  to  be 


138  GENERAL  C 

Tuesday,  April  6 

linked  with  tobacco  use,  many  are  drop- 
ping the  habit  through  fear  of  this 
dreaded  and  often  incurable  disease. 
Why  will  men  set  at  naught  the  reve- 
lations of  God  about  good  health  habits 
taught  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and 
yield  to  habit-forming  products  from 
plants  or  herbs  that  are  detrimental  to 
their  systems  or  bodily  functions? 

Daily  we  see  the  disastrous  results  of 
strong  drink — accidents  on  the  high- 
ways, homes  broken,  wives  and  children 
suffering  and  in  want,  ofttimes  deserted 
and  helpless,  with  no  hope  to  live  nor- 
mal and  happy  lives.  The  Lord  has  said, 

That  inasmuch  as  any  man  drinketh  wine 
or  strong  drink  among  you,  behold  it  is  not 
good,  neither  meet  in  the.  sight  of  your 
Father.  .  .  . 

And,  again,  strong  drinks  are  not  for  the 
belly,  but  for  the  washing  of  your  bodies. 
(D.  &  C.  89:5,  7.) 

When  these  revealed  truths  are  veri- 
fied by  scientific  research  in  the  field  of 
health,  thus  becoming  actual  knowledge, 
it  makes  the  faith  of  the  so-called  be- 
liever appear  weak  and  presumptive, 
and  also  clearly  demonstrates  rebellious 
and  disobedient  attitudes,  prompted  no 
doubt  by  a  feeling  of  restricted  freedoms. 
Of  what  value,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
is  faith  if  people  have  lost  their  privi- 
lege to  exercise  it?  Can  God  be  pleased 
with  people  of  little  or  no  faith? 

Listen  to  the  words  of  Alma: 

Yea,  there  are  many  who  do  say:  If  thou 
wilt  show  unto  us  a  sign  from  heaven,  then 
we  shall  know  of  a  surety;  then  we  shall 
believe. 

Now  I  ask,  is  this  faith?  Behold,  I  say 
unto  you.  Nay;  for  if  a  man  knoweth  a 
thing  he  hath  no  cause  to  believe,  for  he 
knoweth  it. 

And  now  as  I  said  concerning  faith — faith 
is  not  to  have  a  perfect  knowledge  of 
things;  therefore  if  ye  have  faith  ye  hope 
for  things  which  are  not  seen,  which  are 
true.  (Alma  32:17-18,  21.) 

And  this  is  the  type  of  faith,  my 
brothers  and  sisters,  that  Latter-day 
Saints  should  have,  and  recognize  that 
scripture  is  from  God,  revealed  through 
the  Holy  Ghost  for  the  blessing  and  for 


Powth  Day 

the  good  of  God's  children,  and  being 
our  Creator,  certainly  he  would  not  give 
us  any  principle  or  reveal  any  truth  that 
was  not  for  our  good. 

Now  may  I  call  your  attention  to  the 
Church  welfare  program.  This  plan  was 
given  by  revelation  and  has  been  im- 
plemented in  this  generation  of  uncer- 
tainties and  perplexities  to  provide  the 
temporal  needs  and  to  increase  spiritu- 
ality among  our  people.  Is  this  plan 
operating  in  the  homes  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints? 

To  be  realistic  we  have  to  view  present 
economic  conditions  with  some  concern. 
The  economy  has  tightened  up.  Un- 
employment is  a  problem.  Church  mem- 
bers are  experiencing  difificulties.  Can 
we  depend  upon  reported  improved  bus- 
iness trends  and  non-stable  commodity 
prices  to  restore  and  assure  a  high  eco- 
nomic level?  What  is  the  condition  of 
our  personal  affairs?  Are  we  in  debt 
with  instalment  payments  and  heavy 
obligations  on  our  hands?  Do  we  have 
cash  funds  in  savings  or  on  deposit? 

If  we  should  be  adversely  afifected, 
even  temporarily,  can  we  sustain  our- 
selves for  a  reasonable  period  without 
help?  We  have  all  been  counseled  to 
set  our  personal  a£fairs  in  good  order. 
Those  who  have  heeded  this  cotmsel,  I 
firmly  believe,  are  wise.  Your  Church 
follows  its  own  counsel,  cushioning  its 
finances  and  storing  welfare  goods  to 
protect  the  work  of  the  Church,  and 
insofar  as  possible,  the  welfare  of  its 
members. 

Our  strength  as  a  people  is  in  unity, 
emphasized  so  often  by  President  Clark. 
This  unity  is  made  possible  by  keeping 
the  commandments  of  God. 

I  am  firmly  convinced  our  greatest 
blessings  as  a  Church  and  people  come 
collectively  and  not  individually.  If  God 
were  pleased  with  us  individually,  it 
follows  he  would  be  pleased  with  us 
collectively.  Each  of  us,  as  an  integral 
part  of  God's  kingdom,  either  contributes 
beneficially  or  adversely  to  the  welfare 
and  blessing  of  our  fellow  Church  mem- 
bers. 

I  call  your  attention  to  the  great 
patriarch,  Enoch,  who  lived  so  close  to 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


139 


God  that  he  walked  and  talked  with 
him  and  was  given  great  power  in  the 
priesthood,  to  the  perfecting  and  sancti- 
fying of  his  people.  It  is  said,  in  the 
writings  of  Moses: 

.  .  .  And  the  Lord  blessed  the  land,  and 
they  were  blessed  upon  the  mountains,  and 
upon  the  high  places,  and  did  flourish. 
(Moses  7:17.) 

And  Enoch  and  all  his  people  walked  with 
God,  and  he  dwelt  in  the  midst  of  Zion; 
and  it  came  to  pass  that  Zion  was  not,  for 
God  received  it  up  into  his  own  bosom; 
and  from  thence  went  forth  the  saying, 
Zion  is  fled.  (Ibid..  7:69.) 

Then  we  read  the  account  of  the 
Savior's  visit  to  the  Nephites  where  he 
established  his  kingdom  among  them. 
Righteousness  was  taught  the  people  by 
the  disciples  whom  Jesus  chose,  and  a 
condition  of  righteousness  prevailed 
among  all  the  people.  We  read  in 
Fourth  Nephi  that: 

.  .  .  every  man  did  deal  justly  one  with 

another. 

And  they  had  all  things  common  among 
them;  therefore  there  were  not  rich  and 
poor,  bond  and  free,  but  they  were  all  made 
free,  and  partakers  of  the  heavenly  gift. 

.  .  .  they  did  walk  after  the  coininaml- 
ments  which  they  had  received  from  their 
Lord.  .  .  . 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  there  was  no 
contention  in  the  land,  because  of  the  love 
of  God  which  did  dwell  in  the  hearts  of 
the  people. 

.  .  .  and  surely  there  could  not  be  a 
happier  people  among  all  the  people  who 
had  been  created  by  the  hand  of  God. 
(4  Nephi  2-3.  12,  15-16.) 

Now  in  contrast  to  these  two  seeming- 
ly perfect  conditions  we  have  examples 
of  unrighteousness  on  the  part  of  the 
people  whereby  they  did  not  enjoy  the 
full  blessings  of  God  that  he  held  out 
to  them  through  promise  if  they  would 
but  serve  him  and  keep  his  command- 
ments. 

Moses,  the  great  prophet,  lawgiver, 
and  friend  of  God,  sought  diligently  to 
sanctify  the  children  pf  Israel  that  they 
might  behold  the  face  of  their  God. 
They  would  not  listen,  but  hardened 
their  hearts;  therefore,  God  took  Moses, 


the  Holy  Priesthood,  and  the  gospel  out 
of  their  midst  and  left  with  them  the 
Lesser  Priesthood  and  the  law  of  carnal 
commandments,  which  priesthood  and 
law  does  not  have  the  power  to  perfect 
nor  sanctify  people. 

And  then  again  in  our  day,  as  re- 
corded in  the  105th  Section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  Lord  said: 

Behold,  I  say  unto  you,  were  it  not  for 
the  transgressions  of  my  people,  speaking 
concerning  the  church  and  not  individuals, 
they  might  have  been  redeemed  even  now. 

But  behold,  they  have  not  learned  to  be 
obedient  to  the  things  which  I  required  at 
their  hands,  but  are  full  of  all  manner  of 
evil,  and  do  not  impart  of  their  substance, 
as  becometh  saints,  to  the  poor  and  afflicted 
among  them; 

And  are  not  united  according  to  the 
imion  required  by  the  law  of  the  celestial 
kingdom; 

And  Zion  cannot  be  built  up  unless  it  is 
by  the  principles  of  the  law  of  the  celestial 
kingdom;  otherwise  I  cannot  receive  her 
unto  myself. 

Therefore,  in  consequence  of  the  trans- 
gressions of  my  people,  it  is  expedient  in 
me  that  mine  elders  should  wait  for  k  little 
season  for  the  redemption  of  Zion.  (D.  &  C. 
105:2-5,  9.) 

When  Brigham  Yoimg  established  our 
people  in  the  tops  of  these  mountains, 
he  promised  them  that  if  they  would 
keep  the  commandments  of  God  and 
serve  the  Lord,  that  the  Lord  would 
temper  the  elements  for  their  sakes,  and 
their  lands  should  produce  bountifully. 

Now,  I  recognize,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  that  a  condition  of  righteousness 
is  becoming  better  and  stronger  among 
the  people  of  the  Church.  I  feel  this  is 
true  as  I  make  my  visits  to  the  stakes 
of  Zion.  However,  there  is  room  for 
improvement,  and  I  am  sure  if  we  would 
put  into  operation  the  plans  that  have 
been  developed  to  reactivate  the  in- 
active, that  we  could  bring  about  a 
condition  of  righteousness  that  would 
permit  the  blessings  of  God  to  flow  to 
us  in  rich  measure. 

In  the  42nd  Section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  called  the  revelation 
embracing  the  Law  of  the  I.or4  the 
Lord  said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith; 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Tuesday,  April  6 

And  again,,  every  person  who  belongeth  to 
this  diurdi  of  Chxis^  shall  observe  to  keep 
all  the  commandments  and  covenants  m 
the  diurch.  (Ibid.,  42:78.) 

And  the  Savior  said  as  he  walked 
among  men, 

If  ye  continue  in  my  word,  then  are  ye 
my  disciples  indeed.  (John  8:31.) 

In  closing,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
I  would  plead  with  the  Saints  and  with 
all  peoples  to  have  the  kind  of  faith 
that  leads  to  good  works,  to  accept  the 
atoning  sacrifice  and  redeeming  power 
of  the  Son  of  God,  to  keep  all  his  laws 
and  commandments,  to  walk  uprightly 
and  in  all  holiness  before  him,  that  the 
blessings  of  heaven  might  be  theirs  to 
enjoy;  and  his  C3uu:ch  prosper  and  fulfil 
its  great  destiny  of  saving  the  souls  of 
men. 

I  bear  my  testimony  and  witness  to 
you  and  all  men  that  this  work  is  of 
God,  and  therefore  true.  May  we  all 
enjoy  that  witness  and  that  testimony, 
and  do  all  within  our  power  to  step 
forward  the  interests  of  this  great  king- 
dom, I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


Fourth  Day 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve. 

Many  years  ago  it  was  said  that  great 
men  taken  up  in  any  way  are  profitable 
company.  "A  great  man  is  a  living 
light  fountain,"  said  Carlisle,  "in  whose 
radiance  it  is  always  good  and  pleasant 
to  be  near." 

I  took  the  privilege  of  sending  a  note 
to  Dr.  Bryner,  asking  if  Sir  Alexander 
Fleming  would  not  say  a  few  words  to 
this  congregation  this  afternoon,  and 
received  the  word,  "Yes,  Dr.  Fleming 
will." 

Thank  you.  Dr.  Fleming,  and  while 
you  are  coming  to  the  rostrum,  I  will 
tell  the  audience  that  Sir  Alexander  is 
a  member  of  the  Royal  Society.  He  has 
been  knighted  by  King  George  VI,  re- 
ceived the  Nobel  Prize  in  medicine,  and 
wears  in  the  lapel  of  his  coat  the  Award 
of  Merit  from  the  United  States  of 
America,  which  is  one  award  given  by 
our  Government. 

We  welcome  Dr.  Fleming  as  a  great 
man,  and  will  appreciate  a  few  words 
from  him  to  this  congregation. 


SIR  ALEXANDER  FLEMING 


I  am  no  orator.  This  is  the  first  time 
I  have  ever  addressed  a  religious  gather- 
ing. I  may  say  that  the  chance  of  at- 
t^ding  this  Conference  in  Salt  Lake 
City  was  one  of  the  attractions  which 
brought  me  to  the  West. 

My  object  in  coming  to  the  United 
States  was  to  attend  the  Conference  of 
Doctors  in  Cleveland,  but  when  Dr. 
Bryner  suggested  the  possibility  of  being 
in  Salt  Lake  City  at  the  time  of  this 


Conference,  that  plus  other  things 
brought  us  to  the  West. 

I  am  not  of  your  Church.  I  belong 
to  the  Church  of  Scotland,  into  which 
I  was  born  some  72  years  ago,  but  no 
one  could  fail  to  be  impressed  as  I  have 
been  this  afternoon  by  attending  this 
Conference  and  hearing  the  speeches, 
and  I  am  very  glad  that  I  have  been 
given  the  opportunity  of  saying  thank 
you  for  the  privilege  I  have  had  in  com- 
ing here,  and  I  can  only  say  thank  you 
again,  and  wish  you  well. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


jow,  Mr  brethren  and  sisters, 
the  hour  is  drawing  to  a 
close,  wherein  our  great 
conference  gathering  will 
soon  have  become  an  event 
of  the  past.  The  sessions 
themselves  will  be  mere  history,  but  the 


messages,  we  hope,  will  ever  remain  on 
the  tablets  of  our  memories  and  will 
become  moving  factors  in  our  daily  lives. 

There  are  one  or  two  features  I  should 
like  to  name  before  aimouncing  the  clos- 
ing hymn  and  benediction.  It  has  been 
most  gratifying  to  see  the  number  of 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


141 


young  people,  college  boys  and  girls, 
who  have  attended  these  session:^  I 
refer  not  only  to  the  350  or  400  students 
bom  Brighani  Young  University  but  to 
others  with  them,  who  have  taken  places 
throughout  the  congregation  an«f  who 
have  manifested  an  interest  in  spiritual 
things.  This  is  most  encouraging.  They 
have  come  voluntarily  showing  their 
eagerness  to  know  something  about  the 
real  things  of  life. 

It  has  been  most  gratifying  to  note 
how  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  has  directed 
the  remarks  of  members  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve,  the  Assistants,  the  Seven- 
ty, and  the  Bishopric,  and  how  fre- 
quently and  impressively  the  messages 
have  been  directed  to  the  young  folks. 
We  love  them.  We  have  confidence  in 
them.  We  hope  the  messages  will  be 
read  by  others  whom  they  have  repre- 
satited. 

And  now  in  conclusion  I  should  like 
to  say  just  one  word  or  two  and  associate 
the  thoughts  with  a  very  remarkable 
saying  of  the  Savior.  He  repeated  it 
several  times.  It  is  a  paradoxical  state- 
ment. "He  that  findeth  his  life  shall 
lose  it:  and  he  that  loseth  his  life  for 
my  sake  shall  find  it." 

That  form  is  recorded  in  the  tenth 
chapter  of  Matthew,  and  over  in  the 
sixteenth  chapter  the  Savior  repeats  it 
again  in  a  little  different  way:  "For 
whosoever  will  save  his  life  shall  lose 
it:  and  whosoever  will  lose  his  life  for 
my  sake  shall  find  it." 

The  pith  of  that  paradox  is  found  in 
the  use  of  the  word  life.  You  cannot 
take  it  literally,  that  you  are  spending 
your  life,  your  mortal  lite,  that  you  are 
going  to  sacrifice  your  life  in  mortality, 
but  it  rather  suggests  two  planes  in  life: 
the  baser  and  the  higher,  the  animal  and 
the  spiritual.  You  can  apply  it,  with 
those  two  ideas  in  mind,  in  any  phase  of 
our  activity. 

In  closing  this  conference  I  should  like 
to  apply  it  in  two  phases.  First,  either 
saving  our  lives  or  losing  them  in  the 
home.  Children  may  lose  their  lives  in 
attempting  to  save  them.  The  home  is 


the  foimdation  of  society.  It  is  a  sacred 
institution  to  members  of  the  Church  of 
Christ.  We  believe  in  the  eternity  of 
the  marriage  covenant,  in  harmony  in 
the  home.  Indeed  our  ideal  is  to  have 
home  just  a  little  taste  of  heaven.  Chil- 
dren constitute  a  very  important  part  of 
the  Latter-day  Saint  home. 

We  believe  in  obedience  of  children 
to  parents.  Young  people  in  their  teens 
particularly,  strike  out  to  find  pleasure, 
to  save  themselves,  to  seek  to  gratify 
desire;  they  seek  to  achieve  some  sensa- 
tion, some  thrill,  which  may  or  may  not 
be  in  harmony  with  the  wishes  of  the 
parents.  If  out  of  harmony  with  the 
desire  and  advice  of  the  parents,  then 
those  children  seek  to  save  themselves 
and  in  so  doing  may  lose  the  happiness 
they  seek. 

Indeed,  we  find  it  applicable  even 
among  friends.  One  of  oxu-  writers,  not 
called  a  poet,  but  he  is  a  very  good, 
practical  philosopher,  Rotarian,  said,  and 
this  is  to  you  young  people: 

"You  ought  to  be  true  for  the  sake  of  the 
folks 

Who  believe  you  are  true. 
If  you're  false  to  yourself,  be  the  blemish 

but  small, 
You  have  injured  your  friends;  you've 

been  false  to  them  all." 

And  this  is  better: 

"You  ought  to  be  fine  for  the  sake  of  the 
folks 

Who  think  you  are  fine. 
If  others  have  faith  in  you,  doubly  you're 
boimd 
To  stick  to  the  line. 
It's  not  only  on  you  that  dishonor  de- 
scends: 

You  can't  hurt  yourself  without  hurting 
your  friends." 

Can  you  lose  yourself  for  the  good  of 
your  friends?  If  so,  you  will  be  happy. 
Higher  than  that,  can  you  lose  your  im- 
pulses, your  desires,  for  the  love  you 
have  for  your  parents?  If  so,  you  will 
save  your  life  and  your  home. 


142  GENERAL  < 

Tuesday^  April  6 

Husbands,  that  applies  to  you.  Very 
frequently  discords  arise  in  the  home 
because  husbands  desire  to  save  their 
own  dignity  and  have  their  own  way, 
have  their  own  wishes  carried  out.  Wives 
desire  the  same.  Some  exercise  their 
prerogative  to  have  the  last  word.  Hus- 
bands are  sometimes  even  more  eager 
to  have  it  than  wives.  Each  really  is 
trying  to  save  himself  or  herself,  and 
instead  of  having  harmony  and  peace 
in  the  home  there  arises  discord.  In- 
stead of  saving  the  life  of  harmony  in 
the  home,  you  lose  it,  merely  because 
you  are  seeking  to  save  your  own  selfish 
life,  or  have  your  own  selfish  way. 
Better  to  lose  that  desire.  Say  nothing, 
and  in  losing  your  desire  and  that  feel- 
ing of  enmity,  of  ruling,  of  governing, 
you  say  nothing,  and  you  gain  your  life 
in  the  home. 

In  a  broader  sense  you  can  apply 
that  to  life.  Browning  in  that  great 
poem  "Paracelsus"  illustrates  that  same 
truth.  You  remember  how  he  started 
out  to  save  himself,  that  is,  to  gain 
knowledge  as  a  great  scientist  with  the 
intention  of  handing  it  down  haughtily 
to  the  people.  Festus,  his  friend,  said, 
"You  had  better  not  withdraw  from  the 
people."    That  is  the  great  benefactor. 

But  Paracelsus  was  haughty.  He  was 
proud.  When  Festus  warned  him, 
Paracelsus  answered,  saying,  "Festus, 
are  there  not  two  experiences  in  the 
life  of  a  diver?  One,  when  a  beggar 
he  prepares  to  plunge,  one  when  a 
prince  who  rises  with  his  pearls.  Festus, 
I  plunge."  His  friend  said,  "We  await 
you  when  you  rise." 

Years  afterwards,  after  a  life  of  scien- 
tific inquiry,  and  a  successful  life,  his 
friend  found  him  on  his  deathbed  in 
a  Greek  conjurer's  house.  Without 
going  into  the  story  I  will  merely  say, 
Paracelsus  recognizing  his  friend,  said: 
"Festus,  I  have  found  the  secret  of 
life." 

"What  is  it?  All  that  I  have  de- 
pends on  that  answer." 

And  the  great  philosopher  said:  "It 
is  this:  Live  in  all  things  outside  your- 


Fourth  Day 

self  by  love.  That  was  the  life  of 
God.   It  ought  to  be  our  life." 

In  harmony  with  that,  I  read  what 
the  Prophet  Joseph  said,  quoting  the 
passage  with  which  our  conference 
opened: 

"Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the 
service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve  him  with 
all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and  strength, 
that  ye  may  stand  blameless  before  God 
at  the  last  day. 

"Therefore,  if  ye  have  desires  to  serve 
God  ye  are  called  to  the  work;  .  .  . 

"And  faith,  hope,  charity  and  love, 
with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God, 
qualify  him  for  the  work. 

"Remember  faith,  virtue,  knowledge, 
temperance,  patience,  brotherly  kind- 
ness, godliness,  charity,  humility,  dili- 
gence." (D.  &  C.  4:2-3,  5-6.) 

"He  that  would  save  his  life"  in  the 
home,  in  business,  in  society,  in  politics, 
and  particularly  in  association  with  his 
fellow  men  should  lose  that  life  for 
the  good  of  others.  "He  that  will  lose  his 
life  for  my  sake  shall  find  it."  (See 
Matt.  16:25.) 

God  bless  you  stake  presidents,  presi- 
dencies, high  councilman,  bishoprics  of 
wards,  members  of  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood quorums,  Aaronic  Priesthood  quo- 
rums, members  of  the  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions— Relief  Society,  Sunday  School, 
Young  Men's  and  Young  Women's  Mu- 
tual Associations,  Primary  Associations. 

Now  I  have  included  the  entire  mem- 
bership of  the  Church,  excepting  the 
little  babes.  I  repeat, .  God  bless  you 
that  the  spirit  of  this  great  conference 
may  go  with  you  to  bring  peace  into 
your  hearts  as  you  lose  yourselves  for 
the  good  of  others;  harmony  in  your 
homes  as  you  curtail  that  impetuous 
tendency  to  cause  discord,  as  you  con- 
trol that  tongue  and  do  not  say  the 
thing  that  hurts. 

God  bless  the  youth  throughout  the 
world,  members  of  the  Church  particu- 
larly, that  they  may  seek  fi^st  the  king- 
dom of  God  and  his  righteousness,  that 
all  else  may  be  added  unto  them,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


143 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  express  gratitude  and  commenda- 
tion to  all  who  have  assisted  during 
Conferenra  sessions,  particularly  the 
Millennial  Chorus,  under  the  direction 
of  Elder  Keddington,  at  the  Priesthood 
Meeting,  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  Brig- 
ham  Young  University  Combined 
Choruses,  and  the  Relief  Society  Sing- 
ing Mothers  this  day. 

They  will  now  sing  "O  May  I  Know 
the  Lord  as  Friend,"  under  the  baton 
of  Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Milan  D.  Smith,  president  of  the 
Union  Stake,  whose  presence  here  we 
deeply  appreciate. 


Selection  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers,  "O  May  I  Know  the  Lord  as 
Friend." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Tonight  the  Book  of  Mormon  Oratorio 
will  be  presented  in  this  Tabernacle. 
Please  apply  the  Golden  Rule  as  you 
drive  along  the  highways  to  your  homes. 

After  the  benediction  by  President 
Milan  D.  Smith,  this  Conference  will 
be  adjoTimed  for  six  months. 


The  benediction  was  offered  by  Presi- 
dent Milan  D.  Smith,  President  of  the 
Union  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


Conference  was  conducted  by  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall,  Conductor,  and  Richard  P. 
Condie,  Assistant  Conductor,  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the 
choral  singing  for  the  Sunday  morning 
and  afternoon  sessions,  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall conducting. 

The  Millennial  Chorus,  under  the 
direction  of  A.  Burt  Keddington,  fur- 
nished musical  numbers  at  the  General 
Priesthood  meeting. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  furnished  the  choral 
music  for  the  Monday  morning  and 
afternoon  sessions.  Don  L.  Earl  was  the 
conductor  at  the  morning  meeting,  and 
Crawford  Gates  directed  the  singing  of 
the  Choruses  at  the  afternoon  meeting. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers, 
under  the  leadership  of  Sister  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen,  furnished  the  choral 
numbers  for  the  Tuesday  morning  and 
afternoon  sessions. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  directed  the  sing- 
ing of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Frank 
W.  Asper  was  at  the  organ  on  the 
Church  of  the  Air  program,  and  also  in 
the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broad- 
cast. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on 
the  great  organ  were  played  by 
Alexander  Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper, 
and  Roy  A.  Darley, 


The  congregational  singing  of  the 


Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference 
were  taken  by  Frank  W.  Otterstrom  and 
Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson 
Clerk  of  the  Conference 


Index 

Page 

Anderson,  Elder  Joseph  .„..   62 

Authorities  arid  Offica^  Present  ■.   J..:.......  1 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained   108 

Bennion,  Elder  Adam  S  :    S6 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft  ..........1„.........L...J.....„.....   56 

Brown,  Elder  Hugh  B  ..,:„...^,.:...,1,....„;...^.....,   28 

Buehner,  Bishop  Carl  W.  ....    112 

Changes  in  Church  Officers,  Stake,  Ward,  and  Branch  Organizations  '..  62 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast   18 

Christiansen,  Elder  ElRay  L   90 

Church  of  the  Air  ,  ,.   15 

Church  Auditing  Committee  Report  .,  _   67 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.  37 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.   16 

(Church  of  the  Air) 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  ,  _  -.  9 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 
Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  ,  -   108 

(Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers) 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L     83 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L  18 

(Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast) 

Financial  and  Statistical  Report   65 

First  Day — General  Priesthood  Meeting  '.   L..   2 

Fleming,  Sir  Alexander   140 

Fourth  Day — ^Afternoon  Meeting    _   123 

Fourth  Day — ^Morning  Meeting   102 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Present     1 

General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers  Sustained   108 

General  Priesthood  Meeting   ;   ....    2 

Hanks,  Elder  Marion  D  '.   114 

Hunter,  Elder  Mihon  R  _   128 

Isaacson,  Bishop  Thorpe  B    124 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R.   ,   '..   50 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W.  ,  .  .    103 

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A   73 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B   69 

Longden,  Elder  John    68 


146  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Page 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R     88 

McKay,  President  David  O  ■..  22 

(Opening  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  O  -  140 

(Closing  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  O   13 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

McKay,  President  David  0  2,  3,  9,  10,  13,  14,  20,  22,  26,  30,  35,  36,  37,  47, 

52,  60,  61,  67,  69,  74,  79,  82,  83,  86,  90,  93,  95,  101,  102,  108, 
111,  112,  116,  118,  119,  122,  123,  124.  127,  131, 135,  140,  143 

Morris,  Elder  George  Q  ,   116 

Moyle,  Elder  Henry  D   119 

Obituaries   65 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E  _   80 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers    108 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General  -  -   2 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand   52 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L   31 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L   10 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G  —-  131 

Second  Day — ^Afternoon  Meeting   -   36 

Second  Day — Morning  Meetings   „  ,   15 

Sill,  Elder  Sterling  W   118 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G  _   86 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding    26 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma  _   Ill 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L   135 

Statistical  and  Financial  Report   65 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers   108 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast   „   18 

Third  Day — ^Afternoon  Meeting    83 

Third  Day — Morning  Meeting   ,   61 

Wirthlin,  Bishop  Joseph  L   3 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E   93 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar  _   75 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth   47 


Education  Lives  As  Long  As  You  Read 

GOOD  BOOKS 


The  Gospel  and  Man's  Relationship  to  Deity..  ..$1.50 

B.  H.  Roberts 


New  Witness  for  Christ  in  America 

Francis  W.  Kirkham 

Volume  I   $2.75 

Evidence  of  Divine  Power  in  the  "Coming  Forth"  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon 

Volume  II  $2.75 

Attempts  to  prove  the  "Book  of  Mormon"  man-made 

Witnesses  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  $2.75 

Preston  Nibley 

Doctrine  and  Covenants  Commentary  $5.00 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Autobiography  of  Parley  P.  Pratt  $3.00 

Key  to  Theology  $1.50 

Parley  P.  Pratt 

J.  Golden  Kimball   ..$4.00 

Claude  Richards 

New  Witness  for  God-Vol.  I,  II,  III  $2.50 

B.  H.  Roberts  Each 


All  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 

44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


Some  Suygestions  for  Dour  Cliurcti  Library 

Books  of  lasting  inspiration  by  our  Church  leaders 
On  the  Way  to  Immortality  and  Eternal  Life.-..$3.50 


J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

Man,  His  Origin  and  Destiny  $4.00 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Matthew  Cowley  Speaks  $4.00 

Mary  Bailey   $2.00 

Ruby  K.  Smith 

Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  $3.50 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Essentials  in  Church  History   $4.00 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Gospel  Standards   $2.25 

Heber  J.  Grant 

Sharing  the  Gospel  With  Others  $2.50 

George  Albert  Smith 

Word  of  Wisdom  $2.75 

John  A.  Widtsoe 

Discourses  of  Brigham  Young  $3.00 

Compiled  by  John  A.  Widtsoe 

At  This  Same  Hour  $2.00 

Richard  L.  Evans 

Tonic  For  Our  Times  $2.50 

Richard  L  Evans 


ALL  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 

44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


