ONE-HUNDRED  AND  THIRD 

SEMI-ANNUAL 

CONFERENCE 


OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

October  7,  8,  9,  1932 

With  a  Full  Report  of  All 
the  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


CA  c(Jhrillin&  Story  of 

CENTURY  ONE  OF 
CHURCH  HISTORY 

mERE  is  a  new  story  of  "Mormonism,"  told  with  a  com- 
pleteness and  charm  that  will  thrill  Latter-day  Saints 
with  a  pride  of  achievement  and  at  the  same  time  win 
the  admiration  of  the  critic,  be  he  friend  or  foe.  In  a  COM- 
PREHENSIVE HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH,  B.  H.  Roberts 
has  done  a  masterful  piece  of  research  and  has  set  down  the 
record  of  Century  One — 1830  to  1930 — in  a  brilliant  appraisal  of 
momentous  events.  The  reader  with  a  sentimental  interest  will 
be  fascinated  with  this  narrative  of  truth  stranger  than  fiction; 
the  reader  who  approaches  the  new  work  with  the  critical  vision 
of  the  historian  will  find  it  fair  in  statement,  authentic  in  fact, 
copious  in  detail  and  sound  in  judgment. 

A  COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH  was  writ- 
ten by  Elder  Roberts  at  the  instance  of  the  First  Presidency  of 
the  Church,  with  a  commission  to  make  it  exhaustively  complete, 
from  the  remotest  beginnings  to  the  close  of  the  Centennial 
Conference  of  April  6,  1930.  The  final  volume  ends  with  an 
account  of  the  Conference  itself,  making  the  history  technically 
inclusive  of  all  that  happened  in  Century  One  of  the  organized 
existence  of  the  Church.  Thus  it  is  a  fitting  commemoration  of 
one  hundred  years  of  struggle  and  achievement. 

This  monumental  work  is  not  to  be  confused  with  any  former 
history,  journal  or  chronicle.  Though  its  nucleus  is  the  history 
of  "Mormonism"  published  a  few  years  ago  in  AMERICANA, 
running  serially  for  six  years  through  that  magazine,  yet  this 
History  is  NEW — new  in  its  wealth  of  material,  new  in  method 
of  treatment  and  new  in  its  physical  representation  of  the  book 
maker's  art. 

Cash  Price  $30.00 

For  further  information  address  your  inquiry  to 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


One  Hundred  and  Third  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  and  Third  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday  and  Sunday,  October  7,  8  and 
9,  1932. 

On  account  of  the  illness  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  he  being  in 
Chicago,  Illinois,  undergoing  medical  treatment,  President  Anthony  W. 
Ivins,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  presided  at  all  the 
meetings  of  the  Conference. 

The  proceedings  were  broadcast  by  radio,  over  Station  KSL  of 
Salt  Lake  City,  for  the  benefit  of  the  general  public. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency  :   *,  Anthony  W.  Ivins. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  David  O.  McKay, 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Talmage,  Stephen  L.  Richards, 
Richard  R.  Lyman,  f,  %,  and  Joseph  F.  Merrill. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy :  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  J.  Golden 
Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  §,  Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi  Edgar  Young,  and 
Antoine  R.  Ivins. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A.  Smith, 
and  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants :  Andrew  Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  and  A. 
William  Lund. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  counselors  and  high  councilors  from 
the  various  Stakes  of  Zion. 

Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  Wards  and  their  counselors,  and  numerous 
High  Priests,  Seventies  and  Elders,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education,  and  general,  Stake 
and  Ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations. 

Mission  Presidents :  James  H.  Moyle,  Eastern  States ;  George  S. 
Romney,  Northern  States ;  Arthur  W elling,  North  Central  States ; 

*President  Heber  J.  Grant  was  absent  account  of  illness. 

fMelvin  J.  Ballard  was  absent  account  of  illness. 

tjohn  A.  Widtsoe  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 

§Joseph  W.  McMurrin  was  absent  account  of  illness. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Samuel  O.  Bennion,  Central  States ;  Miles  L.  Jones,  East  Central  States  ; 
Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern  States ;  Charles  E.  Rowan,  Jr.,  Texas ; 
Elias  S.  Woodruff,  Western  States;  sWilliam  R.  Sloan,  Northwestern 
States  ;  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley,  California ;  John  V.  Bluth,  Canada ;  Antoine 
R.  Ivins,  Mexico ;  Joseph  S.  Peery,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  first  session  of  the  Conference  was  called  to  order  by  President 
Anthony  iW.  Ivins  promptly  at  10  o'clock,  Friday  morning,  October  ,7. 

Thousands  of  people  from  the  Stakes  and  Missions  of  the  Church 
had  assembled  and  occupied  the  seats  in  the  great  auditorium  and 
galleries  of  the  tabernacle. 

The  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "We  thank  thee,  O 
God,  for  a  prophet." 

Elder  Nicholas  G.  Smith,  Patriarch,  Salt  Lake  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

A  sacred  duet,  "My  Task,"  was  sung  by  Charles  Martin  and 
Myrtle  Checketts. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  is  the  first  general  conference  of  the  Church,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  so  far  as  I  remember,  at  which  the  President  of  the  Church 
has  not  been  present  to  direct  the  proceedings.  You  are  all  advised 
no  doubt  that  President  Grant  is  in  Chicago  at  a  hospital  recovering  from 
an  operation  to  which  he  has  recently  subjected  himself. 

PRESIDENT  GRANT'S  ILLNESS 

The  question  may  be  asked,  and  has  been,  why  did  the  President 
of  the  Church  go  to  Chicago  for  treatment  when  there  is  a  Latter-day- 
Saints  hospital  here  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with  efficient  expert  surgeons 
and  doctors  to  give  medical  care  to  those  who  may  be  in  need  of  it  ?  He 
went  because  the  people  who  were  consulted  in  regard  to  his  condition, 
which  was  critical,  admitted  that  there  was  no  one  here  whom  they  felt 
could  be  trusted  with  the  particular  treatment  to  which  it  apparently 
became  necessary  for  him  to  subject  himself.  So  after  careful  con- 
sideration it  was  decided  that  he  should  go  there  for  this  treatment. 

MESSAGE  FROM  THE  PRESIDENT 

I  have  before  me  a  telegram  just  received  from  him  which  I  am 
sure  you  will  agree  with  me  demonstrates  the  wisdom  and  the  necessity 
of  the  action  which  was  taken.  It  is  addressed  to  me  to  be  delivered  to 
this  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  is  as  follows : 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS 


3 


"Extend  to  the  Saints  in  conference  my  love  and  blessings.  My  gratitude 
to  them  for  their  faith  exercised  and  prayers  offered  in  my  behalf.  I  have  been 
greatly  blessed.  I  feel  sure  conference  will  be  profitable  and  enjoyable  as  they 
have  always  been.  Regret  not  being  with  you.  Earnestly  praying  the  blessings 
of  the  Lord  to  attend  the  Saints  both  at  home  and  abroad  and  also  all  honest 
people  the  world  over, 

Affectionately, 

Heber  J.  Grant." 

The  telegram  received  this  morning  from  the  President  indicates 
his  rapid  recovery.  The  physicians,  however,  who  have  the  case  in 
charge  consider  it  wise  that  he  remain  at  the  hospital  until  he  is  so  far 
recovered  there  will  be  no  danger  at  the  time  he  shall  leave  it. 

GRATITUDE  FOR  IMPROVED  CONDITION 

This  is  a  great  source  of  relief  and  gratitude  to  God  our  Father 
to  his  brethren  associated  with  him,  the  presiding  authorities  of  the 
Church ;  and  I  am  sure  this  congregation  of  people  and  the  Latter-day 
Saints  wherever  they  may  be  participate  in  this  expression  of  gratitude. 

We  are  here  in  this  conference  as  usual  to  be  informed  in  regard 
to  the  condition  of  the  Church,  the  people  who  constitute  its  membership, 
and  to  receive  from  those  who  will  be  selected  to  address  us  instruction, 
admonition  and  exhortation  as  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  prompt 
them  to  express  themselves. 

CHURCH  OUT  OF  DEBT 

• 

First,  let  me  say  to  you,  notwithstanding  the  reports  that  are  being 
industriously  circulated  by  people  who  have  been  excommunicated  from 
the  Church  because  of  their  transgressions,  but  who  now  assume  to 
dictate  its  affairs  and  instruct  us  in  regard  to  the  procedure  that  should 
be  followed  at  this  conference,  to  the  effect  that  the  Church  is  heavily 
involved  in  debt,  that  its  property  is  mortgaged — I  heard  only  yesterday 
that  this  block  and  all  of  ;the  buildings  on  it  were  under  mortgage — I 
want  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Church  is  not  in 
debt  to  anyone,  not  a  penny.  No  one  holds  its  notes.  There  is  no 
mortgage  on  the  property  that  belongs  to  it  or  that  ever  has  belonged 
to  it,  unless  it  has  passed  into  other  hands  and  been  mortgaged  by  them. 
It  is  true  that  in  this  time  of  depression  the  revenues  of  the  Church 
have  suffered  just  as  yours  have  suffered,  but  thank  the  Lord,  through 
your  devotion  to  the  law  of  tithing,  there  are  funds  sufficient  to  carry  on, 
and  we  have  no  apprehension  so  far  as  the  future  is  concerned. 

I  am  making  this  statement  that  you  may  not  be  disturbed  regarding 
this  particular  report  and  many  others  similar  to  it  which  are  only 
designed  to  embarrass  the  Church  and  to  lead  its  members  and  others 
who  are  not  members  of  the  Church  astray. 

PROGRESS  IN  THE  MISSIONS 

The  missions  of  the  Church.  It  is  true  again  that  because  of  the 
financial  condition  of  the  people  the  number  of  missionaries  who  are 
engaged  in  carrying  the  message  of  the  restored  Gospel  to  the  people 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  the  world  has  been  reduced.  People  have  not  the  funds  that  they 
formerly  had  with  which  to  maintain  themselves  or  their  sons  or 
daughters  in  missionary  work.  But  there  are  still  a  sufficient  number  of 
Elders  In  the  field  that  reports  show  that  the  results  are  perhaps  more 
favorable  than  they  have  been  before  for  many  years  past.  Converts 
are_  constantly  being  made ;  baptisms  are  being  solemnized ;  the  organi- 
zations of  the  Church  are  being  maintained  in  the  different  missions, 
stakes  and  branches  of  the  Church,  probably  in  better  condition  today, 
from  the  point  of  view  of  organization  and  results  accomplished,  than 
they  have  ever  been  before.  This  is  again  a  source  of  great  satisfaction 
to  the  brethren  who  direct  the  Church. 

RELIGIOUS  INSTRUCTION 

The  schools  of  the  Church,  like  everything  else  that  pertains  to  us, 
have  of  necessity  been  somewhat  limited  in  their  activities,  but  the  fact 
remains  that  in  the  most  prosperous  period  in  the  past  of  our  Church 
school  system  instruction  was  given  to  8,687  students,  children  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  These  Church  schools,  numbers  of  them,  have 
already  been  discontinued,  and  it  is  the  policy  of  the  Church  to  entirely 
discontinue  the  system  as  it  formerly  existed,  substituting  for  it  a  system 
of  instruction  that  meets  far  more  people  than  ever  before.  According 
to  the  statistics  which  are  before  me,  the  seminary  system  of  the 
Church  during  the  past  year — and  they  do  not  cover  the  latter  part  of 
this  year,  which  will  greatly  increase  this  number — has  given  religious 
instruction  to  30,862  Latter-day  Saint  children.  The  pupils  who  are 
in  attendance  at  the  high  schools  are  registered  in  these  seminaries.  I 
shall  not  read  all  of  the  statistics  before  me,  but  a  very  large  percentage 
of  all  the  children  eligible  to  registry  are  registered  in  these  seminaries. 

We  know  it  was  a  great  disappointment  to  the  people  of  the  Church 
when  the  Church  schools  were  discontinued.  It  was  to  us.  We  did  so 
regretfully,  but  we  do  know  that  we  are  giving  religious  instruction 
now  to  nearly  four  times  the  number  of  children  that  we  instructed  in 
the  Church  schools  when  they  were  at  their  peak.  So  we  believe  again 
in  the  good  result  which  is  to  come  from  this  change. 

TEMPLE  WORK 

The  temples  of  the  Church  have  never  before  been  so  busy  as  they 
are  at  present.  The  people,  perhaps  because  so  many  are  out  of  em- 
ployment— that  might  have  something  to  do  with  it,  but  not  altogether — 
their  minds  are  turned  more  towards  the  ordinance  work  which  is 
performed  in  the  temples  for  their  progenitors,  with  the  result — I 
haven't  the  figures  before  me — the  general  result  has  been  reported  to 
us,  we  get  these  figures  monthly — temple  work  being  accomplished  is 
greater  than  ever  before  in  the  history  of  the  Church. 

THE  WORK  OF  THE  LORD 

These  particular  items,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  referring  to 
because  they  are  fundamental  to  the  work  of  the  Church.    They  are 


» 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


S 


institutions  which  belong  to  it.  They  are  sound,  every  one  of  them, 
just  as  the  Church  itself.  It  is  the  work  of  the  Lord  restored  to  the 
earth  with  a  promise  never  before  made  to  a  people  so  far  as  we  are 
aware,  that  its  priesthood  should  continue,  and  that  means  that  the 
Church  itself  shall  persist  until  it  shall  ultimately  triumph. 

This  is  a  dispensation  the  greatest  that  was  ever  ushered  in  in  the 
history  of  the  world,  because  it  comprehends  all  that  has  been  before 
it  and  all  that  shall  come  after  it. 

INDIVIDUAL  RESPONSIBILITY 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  magnify  our  callings,  the  responsibility 
which  rests  upon  every  member  of  the  Church.  For  when  we  identify 
ourselves  with  it,  when  we  enter  into  the  waters  of  baptism,  when  the 
hands  of  those  in  authority  are  laid  upon  our  heads,  conferring  upon  us 
the  keys  of  the  holy  priesthood,  we  enter  into  covenant  with  the  Lord 
that  we  will  discharge  that  responsibility,  magnify  it  in  our  lives  by 
example  and  by  precept,  every  man  bearing  witness  to  his  neighbor ; 
and  in  that  manner  the  Gospel  will  spread  rapidly  among  the  people 
of  the  world,  who  are  at  last  coming — the  honest  thinking  people  of 
the  world — to  understand  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  as  it  really  is. 

God  bless  you,  I  pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  help  you  and  help 
me  to  magnify  this  important  responsibility  that  is  upon  us,  I  ask 
through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  as  President  Ivins  has  already  announced, 
we  very  much  deplore  the  absence  of  President  Grant  from  this  con- 
ference, but  we  are  glad  to  know  that  he  Ss  convalescing  and  rapidly 
recovering  from  his  operation.  I  am  sure  it  is  the  desire  of  the  Church 
generally,  that  President  Grant  may  he  spared  to  preside  over  us  for 
many  years  and  that  his  days  may  not  be  numbered  less. 

We  also  note  the  absence  of  Brother  Ballard,  one  of  our  number, 
who  has  also  undergone  an  operation  which  is  often  times  considered 
a  serious  one,  but  in  his  case  the  operation  was  quite  successful  and  he 
is  rapidly  recovering. 

Of  course  we  are  necessarily  without  the  presence  of  tBrother 
Widtsoe  who  is  in  Europe,  a  long  distance  from  us,  and  could  not  very 
well  be  here.  But  we  have  Senator  Smoot  with  us,  I  am  happy  to  say, 
at  this  conference. 

Let  me  say,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  to  stand  before  a  great 
congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints  like  this  is  a  privilege  and  responsi- 
bility. I  therefore  ask  for  your  sustaining  support  by  the  exercise  of 
faith  in  what  I  shall  say  on  this  occasion. 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Purpose  in  life 

I  am  impressed  now  to  read  a  few  words  from  a  well-known  and 
prominent  writer,  and  perhaps  if  I  may  have  freedom  of  the  Spirit  I 
will  make  a  few  comments  upon  these  words. 

"Many  a  philosopher  has  propounded  the  conundrum,  'What  is  the  object  of 
life?  Why  have  we  been  placed  upon  this  planet,  to  struggle  along  for  a  few 
years  and  then  to  die?  Has  a  beneficent  providence  some  scheme  which  we 
cannot  fathom?' 

"This  conundrum  has  not  yet  been  answered." 

The  writer  is  regarded  as  quite  an  intelligent  man,  and  he  has 
written  a  very  great  many  good  things.  But  it  might  be  safely  said 
to  him  that  life  is  not  a  conundrum,  that  there  is  a  'ireal  purpose  in  it ; 
and  if  the  writer  had  been  in  dose  touch  with  the  scriptures  and  the 
revelations  of  iGod  that  are  recorded  in  the  Bible,  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  he  would  have 
discovered,  as  I  have  already  said,  that  there  is  a  purpose  in  life  and 
that  that  purpose  has  been  developed  by  the  great  Creator  of  the  world 
and  of  the  people  of  the  world. 

Yes,  but  it  might  be  said  by  him,  perhaps  :  "I  do  not  believe  in  the 
Bible,  I  do  not  believe  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  that  you  mention ;  I  do 
not  believe  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  or  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price." 

PREDICTIONS  FULFILLED 

Well,  the  answer  is  :  Perhaps  you  do  not;  but  nevertheless  whether 
you  believe  them  or  do  not  believe  them  they  are  in  existence,  we  have 
them,  and  we  have  Learned  from  those  books  that  holy  men  of  old  wrote 
and  spoke  as  they  were  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost.  Many  of  the 
things  that  they  said  were  written  down,  some  of  them  were  great  pre- 
dictions, and  in  the  passage  of  time  a  large  number  of  them  have  already 
been  fulfilled  to  the  very  letter,  although  they  were  uttered  hundreds 
and  hundreds  of  years  ago,  and  others  will  be  fulfilled.  This  is  pretty 
good  evidence  of  their  genuineness. 

And  then  it  might  be  said  in  reference  to"  the  revelations  of  God 
given  in  these  latter-days  to  a  mighty  prophet  whose  name  was  Joseph 
Smith,  that  they  have  stood  the  test  of  one  hundred  years.  They  have 
been  attacked  upon  many  occasions  by  unbelievers  but  have  never  been 
overthrown.  A  number  of  the  predictions  recorded  in  these  revelations 
have  also  been  fulfilled,  and  that  is  about  the  best  test  that  could  be  made 
with  respect  to  the  scriptures  or  the  revelations  from  God. 

THE  PRE- EXISTENT  STATE 

This  man,  as  I  have  already  said,  if  he  had  been  in  strict  accord 
with  the  word  of  the  Lord,  would  have  known  that  the  children  of  men, 
including  himself  and  all  others,  lived  before  in  a  pre-existent  state  in  a 
place  that  is  designated  as  heaven.  When  heaven  is  spoken  of  we 
naturally  conclude  that  it  is  a  place  of  peace  and  happiness,  that  those 
who  dwell  there  are  happy,  that  God  himself,  our  Father,  and  his  Son 


PRESIDENT  RUD.GER  CLAW  SON 


Jesus  Christ  and  the  holy  apostles  and  prophets  and  Saints  dwell  there. 
That  the  society  of  such  people  is  what  constitutes  heaven  and  makes 
for  happiness.  They  dwell  there,  and  we  dwelt  there,  in  the  pre-existent 
state  as  spirits.  If  somebody  were  to  ask  what  did  we  look  like  when  we 
existed  there  as  spirits,  I  should  answer  that  we  looked  just  like  we 
look  now,  only  we  were  spirits  in  the  form  of  God.  We  were  his  chil- 
dren in  the  spirit  and  must  necessarily  have  partaken  of  his  likeness. 
Surely  that  is  reasonable. 

It  must  have  been  a  place  of  happiness  because  when  rebellion 
arose  in  heaven  it  could  not  long  survive  and  was  cast  out.  We  read 
in  the  book  of  Revelation,  that  there  was  war  in  heaven  between  Lucifer 
and  his  host  of  spirits  and  Michael  and  his  host,  and  that  Lucifer  and 
his  followers  were  overthrown  and  cast  down.  "Therefore,  at  that 
particular  time  happiness  was  restored  and  must  have  continued  in 
heaven. 

SPIRITS  NOT  COMPLETE 

A  time  arrived,  however,  when  these  spirits  were  in  need  of  some- 
thing further,  or  in  other  words,  it  must  have  been  known  in  that  pre- 
existent  state  that  the  spirits  of  men  were  not  complete  in  their  creation, 
that  there  was  something  lacking,  something  that  should  be  added  to 
them.  Of  course,  I  am  speaking  now  strictly  in  accordance  with  Holy 
Writ.  The  time  arrived  when  these  spirits  came  forth  upon  the  earth. 
But  it  was  their  coming  that  proved  to  be  so  interesting  a  matter.  We 
read  about  it  in  the  opening  chapters  of  the  Holy  Bible,  the  Bible  of  the 
Christian  world  which  is  our  Bible  also.  It  is  set  forth  in  great  clear- 
ness. 

God  said :  "Let  us  make  man  in  our  image,  after  our  likeness." 
And  the  record  tells  us  that  God  did  create  man  in  his  own  image  and 
after  his  likeness.  He  said,  Let  us  do  it,  and  the  act  of  performance 
followed.  A  little  farther  on  the  matter  is  amplified,  like  my  words  are 
being  amplified  and  made  a  little  clearer  by  the  radio,  when  we  read  that 
"God  formed  man  of  the  dust  of  the  ground,  and  breathed  into  his 
nostrils  the  breath  of  life ;  and  man  became  a  living  soul." 

LIVING  SOULS 

•  I  say  to  you  that  that  was  an  extraordinary  thing,  and  it  occurred 
at  the  very  beginning  in  the  experience  of  Adam  and  Eve.  They 
became  living  souls  and  their  children  who  followed  them  also  became 
living  souls.  Now  to  be  a  living  soul  is  a  very  different  thing  from 
being  a  living  spirit.  The  breath  of  life  referred  to  that  was  breathed 
into  man,  was  in  fact  his  spirit.  This  is  made  very  clear  in  the  revela- 
tions of  God  given  to  his  people  in  both  ancient  as  well  as  modern 
times. 

The  difference  is  this :  When  the  immortal  spirit  of  a  man 
secures  and  enters  a  mortal  body,  it  can  then  be  said,  I  take  it,  that  his 
creation  is  complete.    He  is  a  living  soul. 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


That  other  thing,  his  body,  so  necessary  to  his  present  and  future 
welfare,  has  been  added  to  his  spirit.  , 

This  is  set  forth  in  great  plainness  in  section  ninety-three  of  the 
Hook  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  wherein  the  Lord  says : 

"For  man  is  spirit.  The  elements  are  eternal,  and  spirit  and  element,  in- 
separably connected,  receive  a  fulness  of  joy; 

"And  when  separated,  man  cannot  receive  a  fulness  of  joy." 

PURPOSE  OF  LIFE 

What  a  wonderful  saying !  It  discloses  the  very  purpose  of  life, 
namely,  that  man,  a  living  soul,  is  capable  of  attaining  to  and  expe- 
riencing a  fulness  of  joy.  That  is  the  answer  to  the  conundrum 
respecting  "the  purpose  of  life."  In  other  words,  man  is  placed  in  a 
position  by  this  fulness  and  completeness  of  his  creation  that  he  can 
receive  a  fulness  of  joy.  He  does  not  necessarily  have  it  unless  he 
makes  himself  worthy  of  it  by  compliance  with  the  laws  of  God. 

Now,  the  Lord  doubtless  had  this  matter  in  mind  when  he  said,  as 
recorded  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price :  "This  is  my  work  and  my  glory, 
to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man."  That  is  the 
special  work  in  which  God  our  Father  is  engaged,  and  I  take  it  from 
a  reading  of  the  scriptures,  and  from  reflection,  that  God  cannot  be 
engaged  in  a  greater  work  than  to  bring  to  pass  the  salvation  of  souls, 
and  it  is  in  the  principle  of  salvation  that  we  are  to  find  a  fulness  of  joy. 
Somebody  may  say,  perhaps  this  very  writer  may  say,  "What  do  you 
mean  by  salvation?"  Well,  it  simply  means  that  a  man  must  first  be 
saved  from  his  weaknesses  and  imperfections,  and  secondly,  that  he 
must  be  saved  from  his  sins  and  follies. 

HOW  TO  BE  SAVED 

How  can  he  be  saved  from  them  ?  By  forsaking  his  weakness  and 
by  repenting  and  forsaking  his  sins,  after  which  he  may  get  remission 
of  his  sins  by  and  through  an  ordinance  of  the  Gospel,  viz.,  baptism. 
Possibly  the  writer  heretofore  mentioned  might  add,  "Well,  what  do  you 
mean  by  the  Gospel?" 

We  mean  by  the  Gospel  just  what  Paul  said  about  it.  He  said: 
"I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ  ;  for  it  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation,  to  every  one  that  believeth."  The  Savior  said  that  those 
who  rejected  it  and  would  not  have  the  Gospel,  would  be  damned,  or, 
in  other  words,  would  come  under  very  great  condemnation.  If  you 
do  not  like  the  word  damned  use  the  word  condemnation,  because  both 
words  mean  exactly  the  same  thing,  only  one  is  a  little  more  expressive 
than  the  other.  And  so  we  find  that  salvation  is  to  come  through 
obedience  to  the  Gospel. 

THE  DESTINY  OF  MAN 

Now  there  is  another  very  wonderful  thing  in  the  scriptures  if  we 
shall  go  back  to  Adam,  and  it  is  contained  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  II 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


9 


Nephi,  second  chapter,  as  I  remember  it,  and  that  is  this  :  "Adam 
fell  that  men  might  be;  and  men  are,  that  they  might  have  joy." 

So  we  come  right  back  to  this  question  of  the  purpose  of  life — 
"Men  are,  that  they  might  have  joy."  We  might  say,  God  is  that 
he  might  have  joy,  a  fulness  of  joy,  and  so  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  is  that 
he  might  have  a  fulness  of  joy,  and  that  would  mean  that  God  has  a 
fulness  of  salvation,  and  that  Jesus  Christ  has  a  fulness  of  salvation. 
They  have  attained  to  it.  They  have  conquered.  Jesus  Christ  has  risen 
above  his  enemies.  He  has  gone  beyond.  They  have  no  power  over 
him  at  all.  He  has  all  power,  and  is  saved,  and  therefore,  brethren  and 
sisters,  he  must  be  in  a  condition  or  state  of  perfect  joy. 

That  is  the  destiny  of  man.  But  that  destiny  must  be  clearly 
understood  by  man  and  must  be  followed  in  order  that  he  shall  rise 
to  exaltation  and  glory  such  as  that  which  has  been  received  by  the 
Savior  and  his  apostles  of  old  and  the  Saints  who  have  been  resurrected 
who  will  enter  into  glory  and  exaltation. 

MUST  BE  BORN  AGAIN 

How  is  that  to  come  about  ?  Let  me  signify.  We  are  told  that  the 
Savior  revealed  it,  but  he  did  it  in  a  way  that  Nicodemus  perhaps  did 
not  comprehend,  and  in  a  way  that  the  Christian  world  today  does  not 
appear  to  comprehend.  Jesus  said,  as  recorded  in  the  Gospel  by  St. 
John,  3rd  chapter,  that  "except  a  man  be  born  again,  he  cannot  see  the 
kingdom  of  God."  That  was  a  very  confusing  statement  made  to  Nico- 
demus. He  wondered  about  it.  He  wondered  how  a  man  could  be 
born  again.  Must  he  go  back  and  be  born  once  more?  The  Savior 
saw  his  predicament,  saw  that  he  was  ignorant  of  the  matter,  and  said  : 
"Nicodemus,  except  a  man  be  born  of  water  and  of  the  Spirit,  he  cannot 
enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God."  If  a  man  cannot  enter  the  kingdom  of 
God  he  cannot  rise  to  a  fulness  of  joy,  never,  worlds  without  end. 

He  may  get  some  joy,  he  may  get  great  happiness  from  what  he 
does  do  in  righteousness,  but  to  get  a  fulness  he  must  be  born  again. 
It  is  an  actual  birth,  just  as  we  were  born  into  the  world  to  get  these 
bodies,  so  we  must  be  born  into  the  kingdom  of  God — perhaps  I  should 
say  born  into  the  church  and  kingdom  of  God,  I  think  perhaps  they 
will  be  merged  together  sometime.  The  kingdom  of  God  and  the  church 
of  God  are  not  very  far  apart.  One  cannot  ,  get  into  the  kingdom  of 
God  upon  the  principle  of  faith  alone,  or  repentance  alone,  or  re- 
ceiving the  Holy  Ghost  alone.  He  will  have  to  be  baptized,  go  down 
into  the  water,  and  come  up  out  of  the  water,  and  have  hands  laid  upon 
him  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  That  is  the  procedure  that  was 
followed  by  the  apostles  of  Christ.  That  is  the  procedure  of  the  Church 
today.   It  is  the  only  way. 

Baptism,  then,  may  be  said  to  be  the  door  that  leads  into  the  kingdom 
of  God,  or  into  the  church  and  kingdom  of  God.  How  beautiful  that 
is !  There  is  an  actuality  about  it,  you  can  visualize  it.  I  am  not 
spiritualizing.  There  is  an  earthly  work  to  do.  And  then  when  one 
gets  into  the  kingdom  of  God  there  is  a  greater  work  to  do  because  it 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


is  word  upon  word,  line  upon  line,  precept  upon  precept,  that  one  must 
learn  by  experience  after  he  conies  into  the  Church  and  kingdom  of 
God.  A  man  is  not  saved  by  baptism  altogether.  The  opportunity  of 
salvation,  the  power  to  be  saved,  yes,  it  is  there,  but  he  must  exercise 
that  power  and  do  the  work  that  is  necessary. 

WORLDLY  THINGS  TO  PASS  AWAY 

Now,  in  conclusion,  let  me  say  this  to  you,  brethren  and  sisters  of 
the  Church:  The  man  who  expects  to  find  a  fulness  of  joy  in  the 
light  and  frivolous  pleasures  of  the  world  or  in  matters  pertaining  strictly 
to  the  world  will  be  sadly  disappointed,  because  it  is  said  that  a  man 
whose  heart  is  wedded  to  the  things  of  the  world  is  carnally  minded, 
and  we  are  told  in  the  scriptures  that  to  be  carnally  minded,  or  alto- 
gether worldly  minded,  is  death,  but  to  be  spiritually  minded  is  life 
eternal.  There  it  is,  and  we  should  remember  that  as  Latter-day  Saints 
we  must  not  give  ourselves  wholly  and  completely  to  worldly  things, 
loving  them  above  everything  else.  Wle  have  to  deal  with  them,  and  we 
need  them,  too,  but  we  must  be  spiritually  minded  if  we  will  attain 
to  a  fulness  of  joy. 

Now,  this  is  what  the  Lord  says  about  the  matter  in  section  one 
hundred  thirty-two  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  Listen  to  this 
tremendous  declaration  of  the  Lord  by  revelation  to  Joseph  Smith  the 
Prophet.  We  wish  the  whole  world  could  hear  it.  It  might  cause  them 
generally  to  sit  down  and  reflect  upon  life : 

"And  everything  that  is  in  the  world,  whether  it  be  ordained  of  men,  by 
thrones,  or  principalities,  or  powers,  or  things  of  name,  whatsoever  they  may  be, 
that  are  not  by  me  or  by  my  word,  saith  the  Lord,  shall  be  thrown  down,  and  shall 
not  remain  after  men  are  dead,  neither  in  nor  after  the  resurrection,  saith  the 
Lord  your  God." 

We  ought  not  to  cling  to  those  things  that  will  pass  away  and  never 
return.  We  should  rather  take  hold  of  the  things  that  are  destined  to 
remain. 

IMMORTAL  THINGS 

This  is  what  Henry  Drummond  says,  which  is  pretty  much  to  the 
point,  and  has  some  bearing  upon  what  I  have  been  saying : 

"There  is  a  great  deal  in  the  world  that  is  delightful  and  beautiful;  there  is 
a  great  deal  in  it  that  is  great  and  engrossing;  but  it  will  not  last.  All  that  is 
in  the  world,  the  lust  of  the  eye,  thelust  of  the  flesh,  and  the  pride  of  life,  are  but 
for  a  little  while.  Love  not  the  world,  therefore.  Nothing  that  it  contains  is 
worth  the  life  and  Iconsecration  of  an  immortal  soul.  The  immortal  soul  must 
give  itself  to  something  that  is  immortal.   And  the  only  immortal  things  are  these : 

"  'Now  abideth  faith,  hope,  love ;  but  the  greatest  of  these  is  love'." 

That  is  a  wonderful  saying,  is  it  not?  There  is  mighty  power  in 
love,  and  you  might  say  all  power  in  faith.  We  could  not  succeed  with- 
out both. 


PRESIDENT  RUDCER  CLAW  SON 


11 


THE  RICHES  OF  THE  WORLD 

Now  some  people,  many  people  perhaps,  some  in  the  Church, 
think  that  this  happiness  I  am  speaking  of,  or  fulness  of  joy,  may  be 
found  in  the  riches  of  the  world — in  gold,  silver,  houses,  lands,  etc.  Let 
me  quote  from  a  certain  publication  what  is  said  respecting  a  very 
wealthy  Russian  nobleman : 

"No  one  who  is  not  rich,  attractive,  very  young,  and  the  center  of  an  admiring 
social  circle,  can  have  any  idea  how  intolerably  tedious  riches,  beauty,  and 
popularity  can  be.  Felix  Felixovich  had  everything  he  could  possibly  want: 
he  was  master  of  the  largest  and  imost  valuable  collection  of  precious  stones  in 
the  world,  of  palaces  and  castles  and  enormous  estates;  he  had  accomplished  the 
highest  that  a  man  of  noble  blood,  a  descendant  of  the  Elstons  could  accomplish ; 
he  had  won  the  hand  of  an  imperial  princess ;  his  friend  was  the  handsome 
universally  admired  Grand  Duke  Dimitri.  And  yet  for  him  this  state  of  per- 
petual happiness  which  hid  nothing  more  in  itself,  which  held  out  no  promise  of 
new  experiences,  which  could  •  offer  him  no  further  secrets,  attractions,  or 
excitements,  was  one  of  intolerable  boredom  and  emptiness. 

Like  many  other  Russian  aristocrats,  Prince  Felix  did  not  avail  himself  of 
the  possibility  of  filling  his  life  with  intellectual  interests,  and  consequently  he 
was  tormented  by  the  painful  boredom  of  the  absolutely  rich  and  absolutely 
happy  person,  the  man  to  whom  nothing  is  forbidden,  and  to  jwhom  therefore, 
nothing  any  longer  seems  desirable.  Inevitably,  he  began  to  feel  his  life  of 
perpetual  riches  as  a  prison,  from  which  there  was  no  escape.  His  beautiful 
wife  of  imperial  blood,  his  beautiful  and  elegant  friend,  the  many  adorers,  male 
and  female,  and  the  handsome  men  and  pretty  women  who  flocked  about  him, 
were  bound  ultimately  to  seem  like  merciless  warders,  who  'kept  him  shut  up  in 
his  prison  of  disconsolate  [boredom. 

"The  poor  can  hope  for  riches,  the  unloved  for  love,  and  the  lowly  for 
elevation;  but  for  the  man  who  like  Felix  Yusupov,  is  surrounded  by  enormous 
wealth,  perpetual  [happiness,  and  unending  pleasure,  there  remains  no  other 
outlet  from  his  spiritual  prison  but  crime.  As  the  ray  of  light  coming  through 
his  grating,  so  to  the  young  prince,  crime  seemed  the  only  hope  of  freedom.  To 
commit  a  crime  and  once  more  taste  a  new,  still  unknown  excitement  was  a  dream 
like  the  prisoner's  dream  )of  freedom." 

In  conclusion,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  testify  to  you  in  all  solemnity 
after  fifty  years  of  experience  that  I  do  know  positively  with  a  firm 
knowledge  and  an  abiding  faith  that  this  is  the  Church  of  God  and  of 
his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  that  Jesus  was  and  is  the  Savior  of  the  world, 
and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a  true  prophet  of  God.  I  have  great 
pleasure  and  happiness  in  bearing  this  testimony  on  this  occasion.  The 
Lord  bless  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  am  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  to  be  with  you  in 
this  conference  this  morning.  I  rejoice  in  the  divine  power  that  actuates 
this  great  work.  Notwithstanding  the  adverse  conditions  that  prevail 
at  the  present  time  I  am  sure  that  we  all  have  occasion  to  be  grateful 
for  health  and  life,  for  appreciation  of  the  divinity  of  this  work,  and 
for  the  privileges  and  blessings  that  have  been  given  to  us.  I  expressed 
yesterday  to  President  Ivins  my  feeling  that,  if  he  desired,  I  would  be 


12 


GENERA  E  CONFERENCE 


perfectly  willing  to  forego  being  called  upon  to  speak  in  this  conference, 
so  that  he  could  have  the  opportunity  to  call  some  who  are  not  ordinarily 
called  upon.  I  realize  that  there  are  many  men  in  the  Church  who  have 
had  experience  and  training,  who  are  carrying  responsibility  throughout 
the  various  divisions  of  the  Church,  who  could  advise  with  us  and 
address  us  upon  matters  that  would  be  helpful  and  encouraging. 

CHURCH  GROWTH  AND  ACTIVITY 

Nevertheless,  I  am  happy  to  bear  my  testimony  and  to  express  to 
you  my  faith  and  assurance  that  this  work  is  growing  and  will  continue 
to  grow  and  accomplish  the  great  destiny  that  is  before  it.  In  this 
connection  it  may  interest  you  to  know  that  the  Church  has  shown 
greater  numerical  growth  throughout  the  United  States  during  the 
past  15  years,  from  1916  to  1931,  in  proportion  to  membership  than  any 
of  the  largest  churches.  The  same  is  true  of  the  increase  in  the  number 
of  congregations  or  wards.  In  Church  activities  of  the  priesthood  and 
the  members  there  is  improvement  steadily  in  evidence.  Also,  in  social 
welfare  and  in  matters  of  vital  statistics,  this  work  is  making  an  enviable 
record.  As  was  stated  by  President  Ivins  this  morning,  there  has 
been  a  decrease  in  the  tithes  of  the  Church  because  of  the  very  serious 
economic  condition,  but  there  has  been  an  increase  in  the  number  of 
tithepayers,  showing  greater  faith  on  the  part  of  the  people.  I  believe, 
however,  that  there  is  still  opportunity  for  improvement  in  this  respect. 
Our  young  people  need  to  be  taught  and  trained  and  encouraged  to 
observe  this  principle,  which  is  spiritual  as  well  as  economic,  for  their 
welfare  and  progress  and  faith  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Every 
boy  and  girl  should  be  trained  by  their  parents  to  pay  tithing  on  whatever 
they  may  obtain  in  the  way  of  earnings  or  gifts.  They  should  be  en- 
couraged to  try  to  earn  regularly  and  to  tithe  such  income.  We  are 
urging  especially  that  every  member  of  the  Aaronic  priesthood  shall  be 
taught  the  observance  of  this  divine  law.  The  decrease  of  tithes  is  due, 
as  you  will  appreciate,  to  the  fact  that  there  has  been  much  unemploy- 
ment :  and  consequently  those  who  have  been  unemployed  have  been 
unable  to  pay  their  tithes ;  and  also  very  much  by  the  low  prices  of 
commodities. 

FACTORS  OF  VITAL  IMPORTANCE  FOR  BETTER  CONDITIONS 

There  are  two  economic  factors  at  the  present  time  in  this  com- 
munity and  throughout  the  nation,  and  I  suppose  throughout  the  world, 
that  justify  the  greatest  thought,  attention  and  consideration  and  action 
on  the  part  of  those  who  have  responsibility  in  government.  They 
are  of  vital  importance  for  the  economic  welfare  of  the  people.  One 
of  these,  which  is  more  or  less  temporary,  is  the  provision  for  emer- 
gency unemployment  relief.  That  is  being  undertaken  in  a  large 
measure  throughout  the  nation  by  federal,  state  and  local  aid,  and 
through  various  organizations.  I  wonder  sometimes  whether  there  is 
too  much  red  tape  attached  to  the  obtaining  of  aid  by  those  in  need.  Yet, 
of  course,  great  care  is  necessary  to  see  that  those  who  need  the  aid 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


13 


shall  obtain  it,  and  that  those  who*  are  able  to  carry  on  without  that  aid 
will  do  so.  It  is  a  very  vital  thing  to  prevent  hunger,  with  consequent 
difficulty  and  trouble  that  are  bound  to  ensue  if  people  do  not  have  the 
necessities  of  life. 

HIGHER  COMMODITY  PRICES 

The  other  factor  that  is  important  in  order  that  we  may  obtain 
better  conditions  and  the  only  permanent  means  is  that  we  may  obtain 
higher  prices  for  the  staple  raw  commodities.  How  we  are  going  to 
bring  that  about,  whether  by  an  appropriate  method  of  reducing  the 
value  of  the  dollar,  or  in  some  other  manner  raising  the  value  of  com- 
modities, is  a  very  vital  and  important  question  that  concerns  all  mankind 
at  the  present  time.  'When  the  condition  prevails  that  prices  on  raw 
commodities  rise,  the  people  of  this  state  as  well  as  of  adjoining  states 
and  of  the  nation  at  large  will  be  able  to  meet  their  obligations  more 
fully,  and  carry  on. 

INDIVIDUALISM  AND  COOPERATION 

I  appreciate  the  fact  that  this  Church,  in  the  midst  of  these  adverse 
conditions,  is  meeting  the  test  of  its  efficiency  and  its  divinity  most 
effectively.  The  Church  involves,  as  I  see  it,  two  phases  of  human 
activity.  One  is  individualism  and  the  other  is  co-operation.  That 
may  sound  like  a  paradox.  We  know  that  our  salvation  depends  upon 
our  individual  efforts.  Except  we  do  certain  things,  live  in  accordance 
with  certain  principles,  and  accept  and  conform  to  certain  ordinances 
of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  we  cannot  obtain  the  blessings,  just  as 
was  referred  to  by  President  Clawson  this  morning  relative  to  one  of 
the  Gospel  ordinances.  Salvation  comes  through  observance  of  divine 
principles.    So  the  individual  can  be  saved  only  by  his  own  acts. 

INDIVIDUAL  EFFORT  AND  INITIATIVE  NECESSARY 

At  the  same  time  the  Gospel  involves  also  co-operation  and  mutual 
helpfulness  of  all  the  members  of  the  Church  to  produce  results.  No 
co-operative  movement  can  be  most  successful  except  through  indi- 
vidualism-^that  is  through  the  individual  development  and  activity  of 
all  concerned.  If  you  will  study  any  co-operative  movement  that  has 
ever  failed,  you  will  find  that  where  it  has  failed  it  was  due  to  the  fact 
that  every  individual  was  not  measuring  up  to  the  standard  expected 
and  required.  Where  the  individual  has  not  measured  up  in  energy, 
whole-heartedness  and  unselfishness,  the  movement  has  been  weakened. 
So  today  in  this  and  in  all  communities  throughout  the  nation  it  is 
expected  that  every  individual  will  use  all  of  his  powers  and  faculties 
in  every  way  to  try  to  save  himself  financially,  spiritually,  and  in  every 
other  respect.  But  it  requires  also  that  we  shall  endeavor  to  co-operate 
to  the  fullest  extent  possible. 

CO-OPERATIVE  ACTION  IN  THE  CHURCH 

For  instance,  throughout  the  Church  1  think  there  never  has  been 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


such  co-operation  shown  in  helpfulness  towards  those  in  need  as  at 
the  present  time.  The  reports  that  come  to  us  from  all  parts  of  the 
Church  indicate  that  the  presidencies  of  stakes  and  their  associates,  the 
bishoprics  of  wards,  and  those  working  under  their  direction,  and  the 
Relief  Societies  throughout  the  Church,  are  doing  a  tremendous  work 
in  the  gathering  of  foodstuffs  and  taking  care  of  the  same  for  the  benefit 
of  those  in  need.  Never  was  there,  I  think,  such  a  spirit  shown  as  at 
the  present  time  of  seeking  to  help  those  in  need.  Many  of  those  who 
are  in  need  are  co-operating  also  in  going  out  and  helping  to  gather 
foodstuffs.  They  desire  to  work  for  what  they  get  as  far  as  it  is  possible 
to  do  so.  There  are,  however,  some  who  claim  membership  in  the 
Church — and  there  are  people  outside  of  the  Church,  who  feel  that  the 
world  owes  them  a  living  and  that  others  ought  to  do  for  them  the 
things  that  they  should  do  for  themselves.  There  are  those  who  do 
not  take  advantage  of  the  present  opportunities  offered  to  obtain  the 
necessities  of  life  for  themselves,  strange  as  it  may  seem. 

ALL  SHOULD  USE  THEIR  ENERGIES 

There  are  ample  food  supplies  throughout  this  country  and  gen- 
erally within  reasonable  distance  of  those  who  need  them,  if  they  would 
but  go  out  and  gather  the  essentials  and  commodities  which  they  need 
for  their  subsistence.  They  could  get  them  almost  for  nothing  and 
take  care  largely  of  themselves.  I  have  not  time  to  go  into  detail 
regarding  these  things,  but  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  it  is 
vitally  important  that  everyone  who  is  in  distress  and  trouble  should 
seek  as  far  as  possible  to  help  himself. 

THE  WORTHY  AND  THE  UNWORTHY 

The  Lord  has  made  plain  to  us  that  those  who  are  poor  and  are 
worthy,  who  are  seeking  to  improve  themselves,  seeking  to  remedy  their 
condition  as  far  as  possible,  shall  be  blessed.  But  those  "whose  spirits 
are  not  contrite,  whose  hands  are  not  stayed  from  laying  hold  upon 
other  men's  goods,  whose  eyes  are  full  of  greediness,  and  who  will  not 
labor  with  their  own  hands"  are  subject  to  censure.  They  should  use 
their  own  initiative  and  their  own  efforts.  Likewise,  those  who  are 
well-to-do  who  are  not  willing  to  impart  of  their  means  for  the  benefit 
of  the  poor,  shall  suffer,  whereas  the  well-to-do  who  use  their  means 
effectively  will  receive  blessings. 

STAKES  ORGANIZED  FOR  SOCIAL  WELFARE 

.  I  would  like  to  report  to  you  briefly  just  a  slight  indication  of  all 
that  is  being  done  throughout  the  Church  for  the  care  of  those  in  need. 
In  this  city,  where  probably  the  distress  is  greater  than  in  almost  any  other 
part  of  the  Church,  four  of  the  stakes  have  established  storehouses. 
They  have  been  sending  out  as  many  as  hundreds  of  men  at  a  time  to 
gather  food  supplies,  with  the  understanding  that  those  who  work  and 
gather  supplies  will  obtain  orders  on  the  storehouse  for  the  things  they 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


15 


need.  It  is  a  very  remarkable  thing  the  way  it  is  being  done  in  these 
stakes,  and  the  same  is  true  largely  in  other  stakes  in  the  Church, 
although  I  have  not  the  figures  before  me. 

QUANTITIES  OF  SUPPLIES  GATHERED 

For  instance,  hundreds  of  thousands  of  pounds  of  potatoes,  onions, 
cabbage,  tomatoes  and  other  vegetables,  and  various  fruits,  have  been 
gathered  and  stored  or  distributed  to  those  who  are  in  distress.  The 
perishable  supplies  have  been  distributed  promptly.  Other  things  that 
are  not  perishable  are  being  stored  for  those  who  will  be  in  need  this 
winter.  There  has  been  considerable  dried  fruit  prepared.  In  these 
four  stakes  alone  without  regard  to  what  is  being  done  in  the  Relief 
Societies  in  the  various  wards  thereof,  about  44,000  bottles  or  cans  of 
fruit  have  been  put  up  by  the  storehouses  for  the  benefit  of  those  who 
are  or  will  be  in  need.  There  have  been  about  12,000  pieces  of  clothing 
gathered  which  are  being  repaired  and  remodeled  for  the  benefit  of 
those  who  are  in  need.-  Over  four  hundred  pairs  of  shoes  have  been 
gathered ;  and  wood  and  coal  are  being  provided.  It  is  a  wonderful  thing 
that  is  being  done.  The  spirit  of  co-operation — the  Spirit  of  true  religion 
— is  being  manifested  by  busy  men  and  women  sacrificing  their  own 
time  and  labor  for  the  benefit  of  those  in  need.  I  am  sure  that  if  those 
who  are  going  to  receive  this  help  will  appreciate  it,  and  will  manifest 
their  resourcefulness  and  their  initiative  in  trying  to  carry  on  they  will 
be  able  to  go  forward  and  gain  relief  from  the  economic  distress  that 
prevails  at  the  present  time. 

CHILDREN   OF  ISRAEL  TOLD  TO  GO  FORWARD 

I  am  reminded  of  the  time  when  the  Israelites  were  being  led  out 
of  Egypt  under  Moses.  They  had  gotten  out  of  the  land  of  Egypt 
and  away  from  the  ruie  of  Pharaoh,  and  had  reached  the  Red  Sea  when 
the  Egyptians  came  after  them.  In  the  distance  they  saw  the  armies 
of  the  Egyptians  pursuing  them.  They  complained  to  Moses  about  the 
situation,  saying  in  effect :  "Why  did  you  bring  us  into  the  desert  here 
to  be  destroyed  by  the  Egyptians,  rather  than  to  remain  among  them, 
and  bear  their  tasks?"  And  Moses  said:  "Stand  still,  and  see  the 
salvation  of  the  Lord."  Then  he  said:  "The  Lord  shall  fight  for  you 
and  ye  shall  hold  your  peace."  Then  the  Lord  said  to  Moses,  "Where- 
fore criest  thou  unto  me?  Speak  unto  the  children  of  Israel,  that  they 
go  forward."  They  were  commanded  not  that  they  should  "stand  still," 
but  that  they  should  "go  forward."  We  are  told  that  a  path  was  made 
through  the  Red  Sea,  and  the  children  of  Israel  went  forward  promptly, 
and  escaped  the  clutches  of  the  Egyptians. 

APPLICATION  TO  PRESENT  CONDITIONS 

In  that  experience  it  seems  to  me  that  there  is  a  lesson  for  us  today. 
We  are  surrounded  by  difficulties  and  troubles.  We  are  pursued  by 
conditions  that  are  entirely  unfavorable  to  us.    Sometimes  I  think  we 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


feel  that  we  ought  to  stand  before  the  Lord  and  ask  him  for  blessings. 
That  is,  of  course,  entirely  proper  and  necessary.  But  I  think  also  it 
is  important  for  us  that  we  should  go  forward  with  confidence  and  faith, 
using  our  initiative,  developing  our  resourcefulness,  employing  every 
possible  means  to  remedy  the  conditions  which  prevail  around  us, 
individually  and  collectively,  with  the  assurance  that  the  more  we  try 
to  do  for  ourselves  the  more  the  Lord  will  help  us,  because  we  are 
using  our  own  faculties  to  remedy  our  condition.  Thus  we  show  our 
faith  by  our  works. 

GO  FORWARD  WITH  COURAGE  AND  FAITH 

Conditions  are  now  and  have  been  such  with  very  many  of  us, 
that  our  attitude  has  been  much  the  same  as  that  of  the  Israelites  in 
their  fear  and  distress.  Certainly,  under  the  prevailing  status,  there 
is  much  reason  for  worry  and  strain.  Many  are  carrying  obligations 
that  can  be  met  with  difficulty,  if  at  all.  Products  of  the  farms  can 
scarcely  be  sold  for  sufficient  amounts  to  meet  the  requirements  of  the 
farmers.  It  is  a  situation  which  merits  the  mutual  consideration  and 
helpfulness  of  all  concerned. 

Yet,  now  is  the  time  to  "go  forward."  It  is  vitally  necessary  to 
employ  all  our  faculties  with  resolution  and  initiative,  to  resist  worry, 
to  plan  and  work  vigorously  and  systematically,  to  adjust  our  require- 
ments to  our  resources,  to  cultivate  increased  faith  in  God,  and  to  seek 
the  guidance  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  in  order  to  face  the  present  and  the 
future  with  courage  and  determination.  I  am  sure  that  if  we  will 
strive  earnestly  in  this  way,  the  way  will  be  opened  before  us  whereby 
we  may  carry  on  and  have  joy,  satisfaction  and  peace. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  may  bless  us  all,  that  we  may  go  forward  with 
faith  in  him,  using  every  power  that  he  has  given  to  us  and  every 
faculty,  to  the  end  that  we  may  glorify  his  name  and  help  to  build  up 
his  kingdom,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Sister  Elsie  Cook  sang  a  sacred  solo,  entitled  "Rest  in  the  Lord." 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

I  have  withheld  the  statistics  that  I  am  now  about  to  read  to  you 
until  the  Presiding  Bishop  made  his  report. 

TO  RELIEVE  DISTRESS 

These  figures  show  what  has  been  done  by  the  Church  during  the 
nine  months  from  September  30th,  1931  to  June  30th,  1932,  in  order 
that  the  distress  to  which  he  has  referred  might  be  relieved. 

Ten  Stakes  of  Salt  Lake  County,  all  within  this  valley,  have 
contributed  as  follows : 

From  Fast  offerings,  $34,026.86. 

From  Relief  Society  donations,  $28,470.56. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  1VINS 


17 


From  the  tithes  which  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  have  paid  into 
the  storehouse  of  the  Lord,  $105,114.27. 

There  has  been  disbursed  by  the  ten  stakes  in  Salt  Lake  valley  for 
the  relief  of  those  in  distress  $177,437.70. 

There  has  been  contributed  by  the  people  of  the  other  stakes  of 
the  Church: 

In  fast  offerings,  $76,071.76. 

Through  the  Relief  Society,  $58,000.59. 

From  the  tithes,  $32,018.89. 

Total  amount  paid  by  the  Church  during  this  period  from  fast 
offerings  alone,  $1 10,098.62. 

If  we  all  paid  our  fast  offerings  as  we  should  there  would  be 
sufficient,  I  believe,  to  take  care  of  those  who  are  in  actual  need. 

There  was  received  from  the  Relief  Society  $86,471.15. 

There  was  received  from  the  tithes  paid  in  the  various  stakes. 
$137,133.16. 

The  total  amount  contributed  during  the  past  ten  months  from  the 
tithes  and  offerings  of  the  people  to  those  who  are  in  need  is  $361,242.79. 
It  does  not  need  comment  to  satisfy  you,  I  am  certain,  that  the  members 
of  the  Church  are  doing  their  duty  as  far  as  attention  to  those  who  are 
in  their  communities  who  are  in  need  is  concerned. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  take  it  that  we  will  all  be  relieved  when  I  get  through.  I 
certainly  got  the  surprise  of  my  life  this  morning.  I  anticipated  being 
in  agony  most  of  the  conference.  I  desire  you  to  know  and  feel  that  I 
am  trying  to  tell  the  truth,  which  I  find  is  a  very  difficult  thing  to  do. 
It  is  not  my  intention  to  skate  around  on  thin  ice  and  keep  you  people 
in  anxiety.  I  know  as  well  as  I  know  anything  that  a  man  cannot  speak 
to  the  Latter-day  Saint  people — in  fact  he  should  not,  if  he  can  only 
determine  the  matter — except  when  he  is  under  the  influence  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  I  have  never  been  able  to  determine  when  I  am  going  to 
speak  by  the  direction  of  the  Holy  Ghost  and  sometimes  when  I  thought 
I  had  it  some  of  the  brethren  did  not  think  so.  So  it  leaves  me  in  doubt 
and  uncertainty. 

I  do  not  know  why  we  should  be  fearful  among  our  people,  or 
anywhere  else  as  |long  as  we  make  efforts  to  serve  God  and  keep  his 
commandments . 

I  have  been  thinking  about  something  for  some  time.  I  haven't 
got  it  in  the  form  of  ia  speech.  Men  come  to  me  occasionally,  not  very 
often,  and  shake  me  by  the  hand  and  say,  "I  am  glad  to  shake  hands 
with  a  good  man."  I  never  feel  so  "cheap"  as  when  that  happens, 
and  I  have  always  been  thankful  that  they  did  not  know  me  so  well 
as  I  know  myself.  It  is  along  that  line  that  I  would  like  to  talk  to  you 
for  a  few  minutes. 

What  is  a  good  man?    That  has  been  a  big  problem  with  me.  I 


IS 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


have  had  a  good  deal  of  business  dealings  with  men  who  (claimed  to  be 
good  men.  They  said  they  were  good  and  they  told  me  how  good  they 
were,  and  when  they  got  through  with  me  I  did  not  have  anything  left. 
(Laughter.)  Whenever  a  man  comes  to  me  now  and  tells  me  how 
honest  he  is,  how  good  he  is,  I  am  not  going  to  do  business  with  him. 

I  am  going  to  read  to  you  a  little  'from  the  Book  of  Mormon.  I 
'remember  an  Apostle  on  one  occasion — I  had  been  interviewed  regarding 
something  I  had  preached — said  to  me,  "Golden,  why  don't  you  read 
the  Book  of  Mormon  ?" 

I  said :   "I  do  |as  much  as  you  do."   And  that  was  true  at  that  time. 

I  have  read  the  Book  of  Mormon.  I  have  tried  to  understand  it : 
I  have  tried  to  appreciate  it;  I  have  tried  to  believe  it  as  my  father 
believed  it.  There  was  no  book  that  Heber  C.  Kimball  read  more  and 
believed  in  more  than  he  did  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

I  find  that  a  man  can  act  good  and  talk  good  and  look  good  and 
not  do  any  good.  That  'which  I  am  going  to  read  to  you  is  from 
Moroni's  writings  in  which  he  tells  something  about  a  good  man,  which 
his  father  had  told  him.  I  haven't  the  time  to  tell  you  about  the  goodness 
and  greatness  of  Mormon  and  Moroni,  but  T  have  great  love  for  those 
characters.   I  quote  the  following : 

"For  I  remember  the  word  of  God,  which  saith  by  their  works  ye  shall  know 
them ;  for  if  their  works  be  good,  then  -they  are  good  also. 

"For  behold,  God  lhath  said  a  man  being  evil  cannot  do  that  which  is  good ; 
for  if  he  offereth  a  gift,  ior  prayeth  unto  God,  except  he  shall  do  5t  with  real 
intent  it  profiteth  him  nothing." 

"For  behold,  it  is  not  counted  unto  him  for  righteousness. 

"For  Ibehold,  if  a  man  being  evil  giveth  a  gift,  |he  doeth  it  grudgingly : 
wherefore  it  is  counted  unto  him  the  same  as  if  he  had  retained  the  gift; 
wherefore  he  is  counted  evil  before  God. 

"And  likewise  also  it  is  counted  evil  unto  a  man,  if  he  shall  pray  and  not 
with  real  intent  of  heart ;  yea,  and  it  profiteth  him  nothing,  for  God  receiveth 
none  such. 

"Wherefore,  a  man  being  evil  cannot  do  that  which  is  good ;"  *  *  * 

I  am  glad  he  bears  down  on  that. 

*  *  *  neither  will  he  give  a  good  gift. 

"For  behold,  a  bitter  fountain  cannot  bring  forth  good  water;  neither  can 
a  good  fountain  bring  forth  bitter  \vater ;  wherefore,  a  man  being  a  servant  of 
the  devil  cannot  follow  Christ ;  and  if  he  follow  Christ  he  cannot  be  a  servant 
of  the  devil. 

"Wherefore,  all  things  which  jare  good  cometh  of  God;  and  that  which  is 
evil  cometh  of  the  devil ;  for  the  devil  is  an  enemy  unto  God,  and  fighteth  against 
him  continually,  and  inviteth  and  enticeth  to  sin,  and  to  do  that  which  is  evil 
continually. 

"But  behold,  that  which  is  of  God  inviteth  and  enticeth  to  do  good  continually : 
wherefore,  every  thing  which  inviteth  and  enticeth  to  do  good,  and  to  love  God, 
and  to  serve  him,  is  inspired  of  God. 

"Wherefore,  take  heed,  my  beloved  brethren,  that  ye  do  not  judge  that  which 
is  evil  to  be  of  God,  or  that  which  is  good  and  of  God  to  be  of  the  devil. 

"For  behold,  my  brethren,  it  is  given  unto  you  to  judge,  that  ye  may  know 
good  from  evil;  and  the  'way  to  judge  is  as  plain,  that  ye  may  know  with  a 
perfect  knowledge,  as  the  daylight  is  from  the  dark  night." 

I  desire  now  to  call  your  attention  to  what  Moroni  said  just  prior 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


19 


to  hiding  the  plates  in  the  Hill  Cumorah.  It  is  just  what  we  read  in 
the  Bible.  I  might  go  into  this  subject  a  little  in  detail,  but  time  will 
not  permit.  I  am  not  given  to  discussing  things,  to  he  arbitrary,  but 
when  I  make  a  statement  I  want  to  do  so  hoping  that  you  will  think 
about  it  and  get  some  good  out  of  it.  In  this  matter  of  choosing  men — 
that  is  what  brings  this  to  my  mind — I  am  (one  of  that  number  repre- 
senting the  First  Council  of  the  -Seventies.  There  are  constant  changes 
in  our  councils,  brought  about  through  changes  in  other  work  of  the 
Church — men  are  taken  out  of  our  quorums  to  serve  as  high  councilors, 
bishop's  counselors,  and  for  other  purposes ;  and  then  the  bishops  of 
wards  and  presidencies  of  stakes  recommend  to  us  men  to  fill  those 
vacancies.  So  we  are  all  the  time  ordaining  Seventies  and  setting  apart 
presidents  to  keep  these  quorums  intact  as  far  as  iwe  can.  All  these 
men  are  recommended  to  us  as  good  men,  and  the  bishops  believe  that 
they  are  good  men,  and  ,most  of  them  are  good  men,  but  there  are  some 
of  them  [who  have  not  proved  to  be  very  good.  Some  of  these  Elders 
who  have  been  recommended  to  be  Seventies,  I  do  not  know  why  they 
recommend  them.  :  Out  of  the  number  some  of  them  are  very  choice 
men,  but  other  Elders  that  we  ordain  Seventies,  it  is  the  last  time  we 
see  them,  and  then  we  are  blamed  for  the  condition  of  quorums.  But 
of  course  the  responsibility  rests  with  us  to  labor  with  those  men  and 
make  of  them,  through  the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  good  men. 

Now  this  is  the  part  I  want  to  read,  and  I  believe  this.  I  may  be 
of  the  old  school,  but  I  have  heard  it  all  pry  life.  I  believe  it  in  my 
heart  and  with  my  whole  soul.  If  it  is  not  true  "then  there  is  no  truth, 
but  we  have  been  mistaken  from  our  youth."  We  as  a  Church  know 
this  to  be  true: 

"And  again,  I  exhort  you,  my  brethren," — says  Moroni,  and  this  was  about  the 
last  that  he  wrote — "that  ye  deny  not  the  gifts  of  God,  for  they  are  many;  and 
they  come  from  the  same  God.  And  there  are  different  ways  that  these  gifts 
are  administered;  but  it  is  the  same  God  jwho  worketh  all  in  all;  and  they  are 
given  by  the  manifestations  of  the  Spirit  of  God  unto  men,  to  profit  them. 

"For  behold,  to  one  is  given  by  the  Spirit  of  God  that  he  may  teach  the 
word  of  'wisdom ;" 

What  a  wonderful  gift ! 

"To  another,  that  he  may  teach  the  word  of  knowledge  by  the  same  Spirit ; 

"And  to  another,  exceeding  great  faith ;  and  to  another,  the  gifts  of  healing 
by  the  same  Spirit. 

"And  again,  to  another,  that  he  may  work  mighty  miracles  *  *  * 

"And  again,  to  another,  the  beholding  of  angels  and  ministering  spirits  *  *  * 

"And  'all  these  gifts  come  by  the  spirit  of  Christ ;  and  they  come  unto  every 
man  severally,  according  as  he  will. 

"And  I  would  exhort  you,  my  beloved  brethren,  that  ye  remember  that  every 
good  gift  cometh  of  Christ." 

"And  now,  my  beloved  brethren,  if  this  be  the  case  that  these  things  are  true 
which  I  have  spoken  unto  you,  and  God  will  show  unto  you,  with  power  and  great 
glory  at  the  ilast  day,  that  they  are  true,  and  if  they  are  true  has  the  day  of 
miracles  ceased? 

"Behold  I  say  unto  you,  Nay." 

Says  Moroni : 

"Wherefore,  if  these  things  have  ceased,  then  has  faith  ceased  also ;  and 
awful  is  the  state  of  man  *  *  * 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"But  behold,  my  beloved  brethren,  I  judge  better  things  of  you,  for  I  judge 
that  ye  have  faith  in  Christ  because  of  your  meekness ;  for  if  you  have  not  faith 
in  him  then  ye  are  not  fit  to  be  numbered  among  the  people  of  this  church." 

"And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ye  may  know  the  truth  of  all  things. 

"And  whatsoever  thing  is  good  is  just  and  true;  wherefore,  nothing  that  is 
good  denieth  the  Christ, 'but  acknowledgeth  that  he  is." 

Moroni  exhorts  us  that  we  deny  not  the  gifts  of  God,  for  they 
are  many  and  they  come  from  the  same  God,  and  there  are  different 
ways  and  they  are  given  by  the  manifestations  of  the  Spirit  of  God 
unto  men  to  profit  them.  j 

Notwithstanding  all  these  great  gifts,  no  man,  however  great,  can 
lead,  guide  and  direct  the  Church  of  [Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
unless  he  is  divinely  authorized  and  appointed  as  the  prophet,  seer  and 
revelator. 

"I  exhort  you  to  remember  these  things ;  for  the  time  speedily  cometh  that  ye 
shall  know  that  I  lie  not,  for  ye  shall  see  me  at  the  bar  of  God ;  and  the  Lord  God 
will  say  unto  you :  Did  I  not  declare  my  words  unto  you,  which  were  written  by 
this  man,  like  as  one  crying  from  the  dead,  yea,  even  as  one  speaking  out  of  the 
dust?" 

Patriarchs  tell  me  that  prophecy  is  one  of  my  gifts.  It  is  only  my 
gift  through  faith  and  through  living  up  to  the  precepts  of  the  Gospel 
of  Christ. 

I  have  been  told  that  I  should  prophesy.  I  want  to  say  to  you 
Latter-day  Saints  that  to  be  a  prophet  of  God  all  fear  and  all  doubt 
have  to  leave  your  mind,  and  you  then  open  your  mouth  and  God  gives 
you  the  words.  But  I  have  become  so  fearful  about  things  I  would 
be  afraid  to  let  it  loose.  I  want  ,to  tell  you  there  are  |a  lot  of  us  in 
the  same  fix.  Wie  are  afraid  of  what  people  will  think  and  are  doubtful 
about  its  fulfilment. 

When  Heber  C.  Kimball  prophesied  that  goods  would  be  sold  as 
cheap  in  the  streets  of  'Salt  Lake  as  in  New  York,  he  himself  turned 
to  President  Young  land  said : 

"Brother  Young,  I  think  I  have  made  a  mistake." 

Brother  Young  said :   "Never  mind,  Heber.   Let  it  go." 

Charles  C.  Rich,  after  the  meeting,  said :  "Heber,  I  don't  believe 
a  word  you  said." 

Heber  said:  "Neither  do  I."  (Laughter.)  But  he  said:  "God 
has  spoken."  And  God  had  spoken. 

No  wonder  he  was  'frightened,  for  the  people  were  in  the  depths 
of  poverty,  a  thousand  miles  away  from  nowhere. 

My  testimony  )to  you  is  that  those  gifts  and  promises  are  the 
heritage  of  God's  children.  I  am  not  a  visionary  man,  I  am  not  a 
dreamer.  I  sometimes  wonder  what  my  gift  is.  I  have  never  seen  an 
angel,  but  I  have  the  assurance  that  comes  to  me  and  is  burned  in  my 
heart  .like  a  living  fire  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  God  is  the 
Father,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  I  believe  with  all  my  soul  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  and  is  a  prophet  of  God,  and  God  knows  there  is 
ample  proof  to  substantiate  it.  I  also  believe  that  Heber  J.  Grant  is  a 
prophet  of  God,  and  whenever  God  gets  ready  to  give  him  something 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  Wl  IVINS 


21 


to  tell  you  I  promise  you  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  you  will  get  it,  and 
you  will  get  it  straight,  too. 

The  Lord  bless  you.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Before  concluding  the  services  I  desire  to  call  your  attention  to  a 
slight  deviation  that  will  be  made  in  the  ordinary  proceeding  on  Sunday 
morning.  Arrangements  have  been  made  that  on  each  Sunday  morning 
there  will  be  a  national  broadcast  of  musical  numbers  from  ithe  Taber- 
nacle. On  next  Sunday  we  therefore  request  that  you  be  present  a  few 
minutes  before  ten  o'clock,  when  this  broadcast  will  begin,  and  you  will 
be  entertained  by  it  during  the  first  thirty  minutes,  which  will  include 
the  regular  proceedings  of  the  conference  in  part,  after  which  the 
regular  conference  program  will  be  continued. 

I  make  this  announcement  at  this  time  because  it  is  possible  that 
some  of  you  may  not  be  here  tomorrow  and  we  would  like  if  possible 
to  have  you  all  present  before  ten  o'clock,  or  not  later  than  ten  o'clock, 
on  Sunday  morning,  for  the  reason  that  during  this  broadcast  which 
goes  over  the  world  it  is  necessary  that  the  strictest  attention  be  observed 
and  that  there  be  as  little  confusion  and  noise  as  possible. 

The  hymn,  "High  on  the  mountain  top,"  was  sung  by  the  congre- 
gation. 

Elder  Joseph  R.  Shepherd,  Patriarch,  Cache  Stake,  pronounced  the 
benediction. 

The  Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

(AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  second  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  2  o'clock  p.  m., 
Friday,  October  7. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Now  let  us  rejoice,"  after  which 
Patriarch  William  H.  Richards  of  the  Malad  Stake  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 

The  hymn,  "How  firm  a  foundation,"  was  sung  by  the  congregation. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  jSMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

As  )I  look  into  iyour  (faces  this  afternoon  I  think  I  fully  sense  the 
responsibility  that  rests  upon  me,  and  I  sincerely  pray  that  the  Lord  will 
bless  me  that  the  words  I  utter  may  be  |those  (that  he  would  have  me 
speak. 


I- 


22  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

GRATEFUL  FOR  BLESSINGS 

I  do  not  know  when  I  have  felt  happier  >or  more  grateful  for  the 
blessings  of  life  than  ,1  jdo  ,today.  There  are  so  many  things  for  which 
we  have  reason  to  thank  our  Heavenly  Father,  this  temple  block  with 
its  unusually  fine  "buildings  and  beautiful  flowers  and  shrubbery  being- 
only  one.  When  I  realize  that  our  people  came  from  a  land  rich 
agriculturally,  made  their  way  across  the  great  plains  after  being  driven 
from  their  comfortable  homes  in  Illinois,  and  came  into  this  then  desert- 
waste  to  build  up  /the  Church  to  the  glory  of  .God  ;  and  as  I  observe  how 
he  has  transformed  the  desert,  I  know  that  I  for  one  have  much  to  be 
grateful  for. 

DEVOTION  AND  SACRIFICE  OF  THE  PIONEERS 

Recently  we  traveled  four  hundred  miles  over  a  portion  of  the  old 
pioneer  trail,  and  stood  |at  the  side  of  one  grave  containing  bodies  of 
fifteen  of  the  members  of  ,this  Church  who  gave  their  all  for  the  cause 
and  passed  on  to  their  reward,  and  hundreds  of  Others  lie  in  unmarked 
graves. 

I  have  been  on  that  trail  over  which  barefoot,  hungry  and  weary, 
in  the  cold  of  winter  and  the  heat  of  summer,  thousands  of  our  people 
wended  their  way  into  this  valley,  buoyed  up  with  the  hope  that  they 
could  here  worship  God  according  to  the  dictates  of  their  consciences. 
Today  when  I  think  of  this  marvelous  land  in  which  (we  live,  this  world- 
famed  temple  block,  this  edifice  that  has  been  dedicated  to  the  worship 
of  our  Father  in  heaven,  jit  seems  to  me  that  we  who  are  here  ought  to 
examine  ourselves  and  check  on  our  lives  and  see  whether  or  not  we 
are  living  up  to  our  privileges  and  are  worthy  of  that  which  the  Lord 
has  given  us.   He  has  said : 

"Not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me,  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  kingdom 
of  heaven;  but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  my  Fa'ther  which  is  in  heaven." 

It  was  in  order  that  we  might  know  what  his  will  is  towards  his 
children  that  he  gave  Joseph  Smith,  .the  boy  prophet,  the  latter-day 
revelation  which  .^resulted  in  the  organization  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Then  some  of  the  very  stalwarts  of  the 
earth  were  pricked  in  their  hearts  with  a  desire  to  know  the  truth,  and 
the  missionaries  of  the  Church  sought  them  among  the  nations,  and  the 
pilgrimage  (to  this  western  world  began.  The  community  comforts 
that  we  enjoy  here  are  the  result  of  their  faith  and  devotion. 

RESPECT  FOR  THE  NAME  OF  DEITY 

It  is  worth  our  while  sometimes  to  just  check  over  what  the  Lord 
said  to  the  children  of  Israel  through  Moses  when  they  were  in  the 
wilderness.  I  note  that  among  the  things  he  commanded  them  was 
this : 

"Thou  shalt  not  take  the  name  of  the  Lord  thy  God  in  vain :  for  the  Lord  will 
not  hold  him  guiltless  that  take'th  his  name  in  vain." 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


I  hope  that  the  members  of  this  Church  who  have  had  the  Ten 
Commandments  and  all  the  glorious  truths  of  the  Old  Testament  and 
the  New  Testament  placed  before  them  for  their  understanding,  and 
have  been  instructed  in  our  day  by  latter-day  revelation — I  hope,  I  say, 
that  not  any  of  these  would  be  so  thoughtless  that  they  would  take 
lightly  upon  their  lips  the  sacred  name  ,of  our  Father  in  heaven. 

THE  SABBATH  DAY 

He  also  said:  "Remember  the  Sabbath  day  to  keep  it  holy."  That 
seems  such  a  little  thing  for  !us  to  do  in  return  for  the  blessings  that 
we  enjoy.  But  to  forget  that  it  is  the  Lord's  day,  as  some  of  us  appear 
to  do,  is  ungrateful.  He  has  set  apart  one  day  in  .seven,  not  to  make 
it  a  burden,  'but  to  bring  joy  into  our  lives  and  cause  that  our  homes 
may  be  the  gathering  place  of  the  family,  that  parents  and  children  may 
assemble  around  the  family  hearth  increasing  our  love  for  one  another. 
And  if  we  do  what  our  Heavenly  Father  would  have  us  do  we  will  go 
to  his  holy  house  upon  the  Sabbath  day  and  there  partake  of  the  sacra- 
ment in  remembrance  of  the  sacrifice  that  was  made  for  us  by  the 
Redeemer  of  mankind.  1 

Honor, the  Sabbath  day  and  keep  it  holy,  Latter-day  Saints,  and  it 
will  bring  to  you  great  joy  and  our  Heavenly  Father  will  bestow  upon 
you  the  blessings  that  result  from  obedience  to  his  advice  and  counsel. 

"HONOR  THY  FATHER  AND  THY  MOTHER" 

He  says  further,  "Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother,  that  thy  days 
may  he  long  ,upon  the  land  which  the  Lord  thy  God  giveth  thee."  It 
seems  to  me  that  it  ought  not  to  be  necessary  to  say  anything  of  that 
kind  to  'a.  people  like  you  who  are  sitting  in  this  house  today.  Surely 
we  honor  our  fathers  and  our  mothers.  Surely  this  people,  above  all 
other  people  in  the  earth,  should  jbe  grateful  for  father  and  mother. 
Perhaps  we  know  more  than  other  people  what  it  means  to  be  blessed  to 
come  through  a  lineage,  in  this  latter  day,  that  has  accepted  the  Gospel  of 
our  Lord  and  conformed  their  lives  to  its  teachings.  It  is  comforting  to 
think  of  father  and  mother.  Honor  father  .and  mother !  Surely  that  is 
a  privilege.  It  is  one  of  the  joys  of  my  life  when  I  feel  that  I  have  done 
something  that  will  bring  comfort  to  my  father  and  mother.  I  felt  that 
way  when  they  were  here  and  now  that  they  have  passed  to  the  great 
beyond  I  would  like  to  so  order  my  life  (that  honor  twill  come  to  their 
names  and;that  when  I  meet  them  they  will  be  glad  to  welcome  me  home. 

I  think  that  (the  Latter-day  Saints  should  be  stressing  these  admoni- 
tions of  our  Heavenly  Father,  teaching  our  children  by  example  as  well 
as  precept  that  it  is  a  privilege  to  honor  the  Sabbath  day  and  keep  it  holy, 
that  it  is  a  real  blessing  to  honor  our  fathers  and  mothers,  that  in  /this 
day  when  the  world  is  so  depressed — in  a  day  when  people  are  tempted 
to  do  things  that  perhaps  they  would  not  do  under  other  circumstances! — 
it  is  wise  for  us  to-  remember  what  the  Lord  has  said  and  to  read  these 
Ten  Commandments.  I  will  not  read  them  all,  but  I  shall  refer  to  one 
or  two  others. 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


THE  SACREDNESS  OF  .HUMAN  LIFE 

"Thou  shalt  not  kill."  Many  people  in  the  world  ;do  not  seem  to 
realize  what  a  terrible  crime  it  is  to  take  human  life.  When  they  become 
angry,  for  justifiable  reasons  ^as  they  think,  ,they  do  not  hesitate  to 
destroy  human  life.  Sometimes  a  life  is  taken  in  order  that  money  or 
property  may  be  seized.  And  yet  there /is  no  crime  that  a  human  being 
can  commit  that  will  so  far  |alienate  him  from  the  blessings  of  eternal 
life  in  the  celestial  kingdom  as  murder.  No  other  crime  is  equal  to  it. 
I  think  that  it  is  our  privilege  in  this  Church,to  teach  our  children,  while 
in  their  tender  years  and  while  they  are  growing  up,  the  enormity  of  the 
crime  of  taking  human  life.  I  feel  that  our  Heavenly  Father  would 
justify  this  people  if  we  would  stress,  if  I  maybe  permitted  to  use  that 
term,  in  our  homes  and  in  pur  chapels  the  sacredness  of  human  life, 
and  the  seriousness  and  importance  of  living,  and  cause  these  boys  and 
girls  who  are  growing  up  to  understand  how  terrible  it  would  be  to 
commit  the  awful  crime  of  murder,  so  that  they  would  not  be  tempted 
under  any  condition  so  to  do. 

PURITY  OF  LIFE 

"Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery."  In  our  day  it  does  seem  to  me 
that  the  people  of  the  world  have  gone  far  astray.  There  are  many 
who  stand  in  high  places  who  have  forgotten  the  sacredness  of  pure 
living  and  who  are  forfeiting  the  opportunity  God  gave  to  them  to 
increase  their  power  for  happiness  in  life  and  to  give  joy  to  others. 
They  have  surrendered  their  virtue  in  order  to  satisfy  their  passions, 
with  the  result  that  they  cut  themselves  off  from  the  companionship  of 
the  Spirit  of  our  Heavenly  Father  and  follow  the  tempter  who  seeks  to 
destroy  them. 

Latter-day.  Saints,  teach  your  children  to  Observe  the  moral  law. 
wSurround  them  as  by  the  arms  of  your  love,  that  .they  may  have  no 
desire  whatsoever  to  partake  of  the  temptations  .to  evil  that  surround 
them  on  every  hand.  I  want,to  say  to  you  that  there  is  something  more 
for  us  to  do  than  lto  send  them  to  Sabbath  School,  to  Primary,  to 
Mutual,  and  these  other  Organizations  in  the  Church.  It  is  important 
that  we  as  their  fathers  and  mothers  shall  teach  them  and  'not  only  teach 
them  but  train  them  in  the  pathway  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  that  they 
may  understand  the  importance  and  seriousness  of  the  things  that 
confront  them  in  life. 

What  a  privilege  it  is  for  parents  to  sit  down  in  their  own  homes, 
surrounded  by  a  family  of  Ipure  boys  and  girls  given  to  them  by  our 
Heavenly  Father,  their  spirits  begotten  by  our  Father  in  Heaven ! 
What  a  joy  it  is  to  have  them  mingle  together  partaking  of  the  blessings 
of  our  Heavenly  Father  and  rejoicing  in  the  companionship  of  his 
Spirit,  and  to  have  them  so  trained  in  their  younger  days  that  while 
developing  to  maturity  they  have  maintained  the  purity  of  their  lives  ! 

PITFALLS  OF  THE  ADVERSARY 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  plead  with  you  that  with  more  earnest- 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


25 


ness,  with  more  thoughtfulness,  more  patience  than  ever  before,  you 
safeguard  the  rising  generation  from  the  pitfalls  that  the  adversary 
has -laid  for  their  feet.  Many  of  our  picture  shows,  radio  programs, 
magazines,  books,  etc.,  are  unfit  for  respectable  communities,  and  unless 
we  neutralize  the  influence  of  these  things  by  wholesome  teaching  and 
environment,  bringing  to  the  youth  the  benefits  derived  from  knowing  the 
lives  of  good  men  and  women,  teaching  them  the  virtues  of  the  prophets 
and  the  meaning  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  some  of  those  whom  we 
love  may  slip  away  from  us,  and  when  it  is  too  late  ,we  will  realize  that 
we  have  been  sleeping  on  our  privileges. 

Let  us  (teach  our  children  to  be  pure  in  their  lives,  to  be  upright. 
Teach  your  boys  to  safeguard  the  virtue  of  their  sisters  and  their  girl 
companions.  Teach  your  daughters  to  safeguard  the  virtue  of  the  boys 
they  associate  with  by  restraining  them  from  taking  too  many  liberties 
in  this, day  when  so  many  liberties  are  considered  proper. 

I  am  talking  to  you,  and  through  you  I  hope  I  am  talking  to  those 
with  whom  you  contact.  It  is  not  only  our  mission,  to  teach  the  ,Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  and  live  it,  but  it  is  our  mission  to  .send  into  the  world 
our 'sons  and  daughters  as  they  are  called  upon  from  time  to  time  to  labor 
in  the  ministry  of  the  Church.  As  they  go  they  Jshould  have  been  .so 
trained  that  they  would  be  adamant  against  the  ,temptations  of  the 
adversary ;  they  should.-  be  as  pure  and  (virtuous  and  righteous  in  their 
lives  as  it  is  possible  to  be,  and  then  the  influence  of  their  very  presence 
will  be  felt  by  those  with  whom  they  contact.  The  Spirit  of  God  will  not 
dwell  in  unclean  tabernacles,  but  his  Spirit  will  dwell  with  those  who 
keep  themselves  clean  and  sweet. 

Therefore,  let  us  major,  if  we  may  use  that  term,  in  rearing  our 
boys  and  girls  under  the 'influence  of  the  'Spirit 'of  God,  that  the  adver- 
sary will  have  no  power  to  lead  them  astray. 

"THOU  SHALT  NOT  STEAL" 

"Thou  shalt  not  steal,"  is  another  of  the  commandments.  It  is 
astonishing  how  many  men  and  women  who  have  always  lived  good 
lives  will  yield  to  temptation  to  take  that  which  does  not  belong  to  them. 
For  the 'past  few  years  we  have  been  passing  through  a  change.  There 
3eems  to  have  been  a  letting  down  in  the  matter  of  honesty.  Our 
Heavenly  Father  knew  that  we  would  need  this  commandment  when 
he  gave /it.  It  was  not  given  just  to  be  written  into  the  scriptures  and 
then  laid  upon  the  shelf.  It  was  given  to  be  iproclaimed  upon  the 
housetops,  if  need  be.  It  was  written  that  the  Elders  might  go  among 
the  people  and  call  their  attention  to  the  sorrow  and  distress  that  would 
follow  the  taking  of  that  which  does  not  belong  to  them,  when  they  do 
it  without  permission. 

"Thou  shalt  not  steal."  This  commandment  was  given  to  ancient 
Israel  and  punishment  was  ;meted  out  to  those  in  that  day  who  were 
dishonest.  It  is  binding  upon  us  today  and  I  want  to  say  to  you  that 
the  punishment  that  is  meted  out  ,to  those  who  are  dishonest  in  our  day, 
when  they  are  apprehended  and  haled  before  the  courts  of  the  land 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  punished  for  their  crimes,  is  insignificant  when  compared  with  the 
spiritual  punishment  that  befalls  ,us  when  we  transgress  the  law  of 
honesty  and  violate  that  commandment  of  God. 

THE  REPUTATION  OF  OTHERS 

"Thou  shalt  pot  bear  false  witness  against  thy  neighbor."  Within 
the  last  few  days  I  had  brought  to  my  attention  what  appeared  to  me 
to  be  a  serious  violation  of  this  law.  A  great  and  good  man  who  has 
sacrified  much  in  the  world  to  bless  mankind,  and  has  been  helpful  to 
many  people,  had  his  character  assailed  and  his  name  was  bandied 
around  upon  lips  of  individuals  unworthy  to  be  his  companions.  They 
did  it  to  gain  selfish  advantage.  They  whispered  falsehoods  about  him 
hoping  to  injure  his  reputation  and  in  some  way  benefit  themselves. 
Of  course  in  due  time  they  must  atone  for  their  injustice  and  be 
humiliated  for  they  cannot  escape  retribution. 

"Thou  shalt  not  bear  false  witness  against  thy  neighbor"  is  in  the 
same  category  as  the  other  commandments  our  Heavenly  Father  has 
given  to  the  children  of  men.  I  hope  thatinot  any  of  the  members  of 
this  Church  would  stoop  to  injure  the  reputation  of  any  soul  because 
they  had  some  object  to  gain.  I  hope  that  we  would  not  accept  lightly 
a  reproach  or  unkind  word  from  one  individual  about  another  and  pass 
it  on  in  the  community  to  the  detriment  and  harm  of  a  good  man  or  a 
good  woman,  or  to  the  detriment  of  a  bad  man  or  a  bad  woman,  if  it 
be  not  true.  I  think  that  this  community  ought  to  be  setting  an  example. 
T  think  that  the  Elders  of  this  Church  ought  to  honor  their  place  among 
the  people,  and  when  there  is  a  disposition  to  criticize,  find  fault  and 
malign  and  misrepresent  those  who  are  seeking  to  do  good  in  the  world, 
not  remain  silent  and  be  cowardly,  because  it  does  seem  to  me  that  is 
what  it  amounts  to  sometimes,  but  in  the  courage  and  majesty  of  the 
spirit  of  our  Heavenly  Father  we  should  restrain  in  a  way 'that  will 
bring  to  their  senses  those  who  go  about  viciously  misrepresenting  their 
fellows. 

"Thou  shalt  not  bear  false  witness  against  thy  neighbor."  During 
the  upheaval  we  are  passing  through,  when  there  is  so  much  uncer- 
tainty''about  the  future  there  is  great  need  for  every  good  man  and 
woman  to  hold  as  a  precious  gift  the  reputation  of  our  fellows.  We 
should  cultivate  a  feeling  and  desire  to  bless  and  benefit  our  kind.  It 
should  be  my  privilege  to  restrain  those  with  whom  I  may  associate 
from  speaking  evil  of  others.  ;  I  believe  that  when  the  Lord  gave  this 
commandment  to  ancient  Israel  he  expected  those  of  us  who  understand 
it  to  assist  in  making  it  effective  and  in  restraining  ,as  far  as  possible  the 
untruths  that  might  be  scattered  abroad  from  time  to  time  about  those 
who 'are  our  associates. 

THAT  WHICH  IS  THY  NEIGHBOR'S 

The  Lord  says  further,  "Thou  shalt  not  covet  thy  neighbor's  house, 
thou  shalt  not  covet  thy  neighbor's  wife,  nor  his  manservant,  nor  his 
maidservant,  nor  his  ox,  nor  his  ass,  nor  anything  that  is  thy  neighbor's." 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


27 


In  other  words,  our  .Heavenly  Father  has  given  us  this  law.  W e 
have  a  right  to  appreciate  and  enjoy  to  the  full  the  things  that  come 
into  our  hands  as  a  result  of  our  own  efforts.  We  have  a  perfect  right 
to  enjoy  to  the  full  these  things  that  come  to  us  in  a  temporal  way, 
but  just  the  moment  that  we  begin  to  desire  that  which  belongs  to  some- 
body else,  just  the  moment  we  begin  to  look  about  to  see  how  we  might 
obtain  that  which  is  not  our  own  and  become  covetous  of  'that  which 
belongs  to  our  neighbors,  just  so  soon  do  we  forfeit  the  spirit  of  our 
Heavenly  Father,  and  we  have  gone  into  the  devil's  territory  and  are 
in  his  power. 

KEEPING  IN  THE  LORD'S  TERRITORY 

A  good  man  who  was  a  counselor  to  President  Brigham  Young 
said  upon  one  occasion,  "There  is  a  line  of  demarcation  well  defined. 
On  one  side  of  the  line  is  the  Lord's  territory,  and  on  ,the  other  side  of 
the  line  is  the  devil's  territory.  If  you  will  stay  on  the  Lord's  side  of 
the  line  the  devil  cannot  come  over  there  to  tempt  you  or  to  annoy  or 
distress  you.  If  you  go  onto  the  devil's  side  of  the  line  just  one  inch 
you  are  in  his  territory,  you  are  in  his  power,  and  he  .will  seek  to  draw 
you  just  as  far  from  that  line  of  demarcation,  that  division  line,  as  he 
can,  knowing  that  if  he  can  keep  you  in  his  territory  he  has  you  in  his 
power." 

Those  who  disobey  these  Ten  Commandments  of  our  Heavenly 
Father,  no  matter  in  how  .small  a  degree  it  may  be,  have  gone  into  the 
devil's  territory,  and  it  is  time  that  we  as  members  of  this  Church, 
living  in  this  day  and  age  of  the  world,  should  understand  that.  No 
man  can  do  that  which  is  ,wrong  and  stay  on  the  Lord's  side  of  the  line. 
No  man  can  violate  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  be  on  the  Lord's  side  of 
the  line.  Wle  choose  where  ,we  will  be.  God  has  given  us  our  agency. 
He  will  not  take  it  from  us,  and  if  I  do  that  which  is  wrong  and  get  into 
the  devil's  territory,  I  do  it  because  I  have  the  will  and  power  to  do  it. 
I  cannot  blame  ,anybody  else,  and  if  I  determine  to  keep  the  command- 
ments of  God  and  live  as  I  ought  to  live  and  istay  on  the  Lord's  side  of 
the  line  I  do  it  because  I  ought  to  do  it,  and  I  will  receive  my  blessing  for 
it. ,  It  will  not  be  the  result  of  what  somebody  lelse  may  do. 

FOR  THE  PROTECTION  OF  OUR  FATHER'S  CHILDREN 

Therefore,  living  in  this  day  when  there  are  so  many  temptations, 
the  Word  of  Wisdom  ought  to  be  stressed  among  the  people  of  this 
Church.  Our  Heavenly  Father,  knowing  the  calamities  that  would 
come  upon  the  earth,  knowing  the  evils  and  designs  that  would  exist 
in  the  hearts  of  conspiring  men,  gave  to  us  the  Word  of  Wisdom  by 
revelation  and  warned  us  and  forewarned  us  of  what  would  come  to 
pass.  It  does  seem  that  every  attempt  of  the  adversary  has  been  made 
to  neutralize  the  advice  of  tour  Heavenly  Father.  I  hope  there  are  no 
members  of  this  Church,  who  have  been  honored  with  the  priesthood, 
who  would  in  any  way  weaken  the  power  of  God  to  bless  his  children 
by  seeking  to  place  temptation  in  their  way,  or  who  would  think  it  an 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


insignificant  thing  to  try  to  break  down  the  barriers  God  has  raised  for 
the  protection  of  his  children.  I  hope  that  as  men  and  women,  with 
the  knowledge  that  has  been  bestowed  upon  us,  we  will  resist  day  by  day 
with  such  power  as  we  have  the  right  to  resist,  every  attempt  of  evil  to 
break  down  and  destroy  the  morals,  the  character  and  the  virtue  of  our 
people,  and  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God  wherever  they  may  be. 

The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  to 
those  who  believe  and  who  obey  its  precepts.  We  have  been  better 
taught  than  the  world.  We  cannot  make  the  excuses  of  the  world  if 
we  fail.  How  grateful  I  feel  that  I  am  this  day  in  the  midst  of  a  group 
of  men  and  women  who  desire  first  of  all  to  honor  God  and  keep  his 
commandments. 

SERVANTS  OF  THE  LORD 

I  sincerely  regret  that  our  beloved  President  is  absent  from  us 
because  of  illness,  that  Brother  Ballard  and  Brother  McMurrin  are  not 
with  us  for  the  same  reason.  Brother  Widtsoe  is  in  Europe  in  the  line 
of  his  duty.  The  other  General  Authorities  are  all  present.  All  these 
men  are  servants  of  the  Lord  and  I  can  sustain  them  with  all  my  heart. 

TO  TEACH  THE  PEOPLE 

I  am  thankful  to  be  associated  with  an  organization  that  has 
provided  so  well  for  the  teaching  of  its  people.  Only  last  night  I 
attended  a  meeting  of  one  of  the  finest  groups  of  women  that  may  be 
found  in  all  the  world — the  National  Relief  Society  of  this  great 
Church — and  what  power  they  possess  to  carry  forward  their  depart- 
ment of  the  work  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  Then  we  have  Sunday 
Schools,  Mutual  Improvement  Associations,  Primaries,  educational  in- 
stitutions and  genealogical  societies.  All  these  our  Heavenly  Father 
has  given  us  to  bring  us  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth,  and  oh,  how  wise 
we  are  to  desire  to  know  the  truth,  and  to  live  up  to  the  teachings  of  the 
truth  when  once  they  come  into  our  lives. 

THE  ATTITUDE  OF  THE  EVIL  DOER 

This  day  from  the  depths  of  my  soul  I  thank  my  Heavenly  Father 
for  my  membership  in  his  Church.  I  thank  him  for  the  warning  that 
has  come  to  me  through  the  revelations  that  have  been  given  to  this 
Church,  and  among  them  I  am  reminded  of  a  portion  of  the  28th 
chapter  of  II  Nephi,  indicating  the  attitude  of  the  evil  doer,  which  I 
read  as  follows : 

"And  there  shall  also  be  many  which  shall  say :  Eat,  drink,  and  be  merry ; 
nevertheless,  fear  God — he  will  justify  lin  committing  a  little  sin." 

Think  of  that — the  suggestion  that  a  little  sin  will  be  justified. 
Yet  in  the  very  first  revelation  contained  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
that  which  is  known  as  the  Preface,  we  find  these  words: 

"For  I  the  Lord  cannot  look  upon  sin  with  the  least  degree  of  allowance." 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


29 


Yet  there  are  those  who  would  say  that  because  it  is  a  little  sin  our 
Heavenly  Father  does  not  care.  Continuing  the  .quotation  from  IT 
Nephi : 

"Yea,  lie  a  little,  take  the  advantage  of  pne  because  of  his  words." 

Think  of  what  that  means,  the  whisperings  of  ,the  adversary  to  lie 
a  little.  Whether  it  be  a  lie  intended  to  effect  a  religious  organization, 
a  business  organization,  a  political  organization,  or  an  individual,  the 
lie  will  brand  the  one  who  tells  it,  and  sooner  or  later  he  will  have  to 
account  for  the  wrong  he  .has  committed. 

''Yea,  lie  a  little,  take  the  advantage  of  one  because  of  his  words,  dig  a  pit 
for  thy  neighbor ;  there  is  no  harm  in  this ;  and  do  all  these  things,  for  tomorrow 
we  die ;  ^nd  if  it  so  be  that  we  are  guilty,  God  will  beat  us  with  a  few  stripes, 
and  at  last  we  shall  be  saved,  in  the  kingdom  of  God." 

That  is  what  the  adversary  of  righteousness  is  saying  to  the  chil- 
dren of  men.  That  is  what  Lucifer  who  goes  .about  defiling  the  people 
is  breathing  into  their  souls.  That  is  the  kind  of  doctrine  that  is  being 
disseminated  in  the  world  by  some  of  those  who  ought  to  be  the  leaders 
of  morality  and  also  of  righteousness.  But  to  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  the  obligation  has  been  given  that  you  must  refute  such  things 
as  these  when  you  know  of  them. 

We  read  further: 

"Yea,  and  there  shall  be  many  which  shall  teach  after  this  manner,  false  and 
vain  and  foolish  doctrines,  and  shall  be  puffed  up  in  their  hearts,  and  shall  seek 
deep  to  hide  their  counsels  from  the  Lord;  and  their  works  shall  be  in  the  dark." 

THE  CUNNING  OF  THE  ADVERSARY 

And  then  further : 

"And  others  will  he  pacify,  and  lull  them  away  irito  carnal  security,  that  they 
will  say :  All  is  well  in  Zion ;  yea,  Zion  prospereth,  all  is  well — and  thus  the  devil 
cheateth  their  souls,  and  leadeth  them  away  carefully  down  to  hell. 

"And  behold,  others  he  flattereth  away,  and  itelleth  them  there  is  no  hell ;  and 
he  saith  unto  them :  I  am  no  devil,  for  there  is  none — and  thus  he  whispereth 
in  their  ears,  until  he  grasps  them  with  his  awful  chains,  from  whence  there  is 
no  deliverance. 

"Yea,  they  are  grasped  with  death,  and  hell;  and  death,  and  hell,  and  the 
devil,  and  all  that  have  been  seized,  therewith  must  stand  before  the  throne  of 
God,  and  be  judged  ,according  to  their  works,  from  whence  they  must  go  into 
the  place  prepared  for  them,  even  a  lake  of  fire  and  brimstone,  which  is  endless 
torment." 

That  is  the  word  of  a  prophet  of  the  Lord,  spoken  hundreds  of 
years  ago  of  what  would  exist  in  the  world,  and  I  bear  you  my  witness 
today,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  that  is  a  condition  that  does  exist 
in  the  .world  in  the  day  and  age  in  which  we  live.  And  as  your  brother, 
I  plead  with  you  that  in  the  dignity  of  your  membership  in  the  great 
Church  of  the  Lamb  of  God  you  resist  the  insidious  temptations  of  the 
adversary  and  that  in  your  homes  and  elsewhere  you  teach  and  exem- 
plify virtue  and  righteousness.    See  that  the  teachings  of  the  Lord  are 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


so  disseminated  that  every  ,soul  that  comes  within  your  portals  will  enjoy 
the  blessing  that  is  the  result  of  the  companionship  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 

OUR  RESPONSIBILITY 

I  know  .this  is  God's  work.  I  know  the  adversary  is  awake ;  his  end 
is  drawing  near  and  he  is  putting  forth  every  effort  in  every  conceivable 
way  to  blind  the  eyes  of  the  children  of  men.  Therefore,  ,watchmen 
upon  the  towers  of  Zion,  see  to  it  that  you  do  not  shirk  your  responsi- 
bility. See  to  it  that  you  do  not  turn  aside  from  the  opportunities  that 
our  Heavenly  Father  has  placed  in  your  way  to  be  helpful.  Let  us 
go  forward  loving  our  fellows  always  desiring  their  uplift  and  blessing, 
carrying  the  Gospel  message  in  such  a  way  that  the  adversary  shall 
have  no  power  to  stay  it.  And  then  in  the  end,  when  life  is  completed 
and  we  stand  in  the  presence  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  may, we  because  of 
the  work  we  have  accomplished  and  our  devotion  to  our  Father's 
children,  receive  from  him  that  glorious  welcome  home,  "Well  done, 
thou  good  and  faithful  servant;  thou  hast  been  faithful  over  a  few 
things,  I  will  make  thee  ruler  over  many  things.  Enter  thou  into  the 
joy  of  thy  Lord,"  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 
''Except  ye  repent,  ye  shall  all  likewise  perish." 

We  have  just  listened  to  a  splendid  discourse  on  the  gospel  of 
repentance  by  Brother  George  Albert  Smith.  The  whole  world  must 
repent  or  they  shall  perish.  It  is  of  universal  application.  It  applies 
to  you,  and  to  me,  and  'to  every  living  soul. 

"Except  ye  repent,  ye  shall  all  likewise  perish." 

That  is  sometimes  referred  to  as  the  law  of  carnal  commandments 
— the  law  of  the  Lord  with  reference  (to  our  moral  lives.  It  is  the  law 
by  which  we  can  liberate  ourselves  from  the  bondage  of  sin.  It  must 
however  be  supplemented  by  that  higher  law,  the  law  of  grace,  the  law 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  'Christ.  In  the  law  it  is  written:  "Thou  shalt  not 
commit  adultery."  In  that  higher  law  it  is  written  that  whosoever  looketh 
on  a  woman  to  lust  after  her  hath  committed  adultery  with  her  already 
in  his  heart.  We  must  watch  and  pray,  and  eliminate  from  our  beings 
these  elements  of  sin  with  which  humanity  is  afflicted. 

If  there  be  any  man  who  thinketh  himself  .without  sin  he  deceiveth 
himself  and  the  (truth  is  not  in  him.  A  Pharisee  came  to  the  Lord  at 
one  jtime  and  paid :  "Good  Master,  what  good  thing  shall  I  do  that  I 
may  have  eternal  life?"  The  answer  came  from  the  Lord :  "Whycallest 
thou  me  good?" 

This  universal  law  of  practicing  repentance  from  sin  is  a  principle 
of  progress,  (of  eliminating  (sin  and  sanctifying  our  hearts  from  all 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


31 


unrighteousness.  Let  no  one  think  that  he  has  no  further  need  of  this 
saving  principle  of  repentance  from  sin.  ]  i 

The  great  difficulty  with  which  our  missionaries  meet  in  the  world 
is  the  feeling  that  (people  have  that  "you  do  not  need  to  come  and  preach 
repentance  to  us,  we  are  already  Christians."  It  is  the  right  principle 
of  life  to  practice  faith  in  God  and  repentance  from  sin  as  a  means  of 
progress.  We  need  it.  Every  day  we  have  occasion  to  apply  these 
principles  to  our  individual  lives.  They  [have  to  do  with  everything 
that  we  have  anything  to  do  with.  Every  business  transaction,  every 
political  scheme,  every  transaction  of  our  lives,  ievery  amusement  and 
everything  that  we  engage  in.  We  have  need  to  apply  these  principles, 
for  the  simple  ^reason  that  there  is  a  right  way  and  a  wrong  way  to  do 
everything,  and  jit  is  incumbent  upon  us  to  eschew  the  things  that  are 
evil,  and  that  is  an  obligation  jthat  has  rested  upon  mankind  from  the 
very  day  that  our  first  parents  partook  of  the  tree  of  knowledge  of  good 
and  evil  and  our  minds  were  awakened  to  a  sense  of  what  is  right  and 
wrong. 

As  this  young  man,  the  Pharisee  to  whom  I  have  alluded,  persisted 
in  his  question  as  to  what  good  thing  he  should  do  in  [order  to  obtain 
eternal  life,  the  (Savior  replied  by  quoting  the  'commandments  as 
Brother  George  Albert  Smith  has  quoted  them  here  today.  He  said — 
this  Pharisee — "All  these  things  have  I  kept  from  my  youth  up;  what 
lack  I  yet?"  And  Jesus  said  unto  him:  "If  thou  wilt  be  perfect,  go 
and  sell  that  thou  hast,  and  give  Jo  the  poor,  and  thou  shalt  have  treasure 
in  heaven ;  and  come  and  follow  me." 

That  was  the  word — the  higher  law  applied  as  well.  The  Savior  did 
not  do  away  with  that  lesser  law,  the  law  of  carnal  commandments ; 
those  commandments  are  still  in  vogue  and  apply  [to  every  creature. 
But  those  who  comply  with  the  higher  law  live  above  the  law  of  carnal 
commandments,  with  jail  the  penalties  attached.  The  principle  of 
love  supercedes  the  other :  "Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God,  with  all 
thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  strength ;  and  thou  shalt 
love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself.  These  constitute  the  law  and  the  prophets." 

What  man  'will  jdo  ian  injury  to  his  neighbor,  steal  his  property, 
take  his  life,  or  desire  his  wife?  Not  one  who  loves  his  neighbor  as 
he  loves  himself,  or  if  he  loves  God  with  all  his  heart. 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  who  have  entered  into  covenant 
with  the  Lord  and  received  that  higher  law ;  let  |us  live  above  the  law 
of  carnal  commandments  and  render  obedience,  not  in  fear  of  the 
penalties  which  are  attached,  (but  out  of  (the  love  of  God  and  the  love 
of  our  fellowmen,  which  will  sanctify  and  purify  our  hearts  from  all 
unrighteousness.  Let  us  not  think  that  we  are  (good  enough  just  as 
we  are,  for  we  can  go  on  /to  perfection  |by  the  application  of  these 
saving  principles  ;which  God  has  revealed,  and  it  is  his  desire  that  his 
people  should  sanctify  themselves  from  all  unrighteousness.  Hence 
this  great  work  with  which  we  are  identified ;  hence  the  sending  of  our 
missionaries  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  the  people  throughout  the  world ; 
hence  the  organizations  of  the  Church  in  the  stakes  and  wards  of 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Zion;  hence  our  auxiliary  organizations,  all  having  for  their  purpose 
the  sanctifying  of  our  hearts  from  all  unrighteousness. 

There  is  la  condition  in  the  world  that  needs  to  'be  corrected.  What 
is  that  condition?  The  Prophet  Isaiah  said  a  long  time  ago,  many 
thousands  of  years  ago  : 

"The  earth  is  defiled  under  the  inhabitants  thereof,  because  they  have  trans- 
gressed the  law,  changed  the  ordinances,  and  broken  the  everlasting  covenant." 

What  is  that  everlasting  covenant?  It  is  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Its  ordinances  have  been  changed,  the  covenant  has  been 
broken  and  the  world  lhas  corrupted  and  defiled  the  earth  upon  which 
we  live ;  but  the  Lord  desires  that  it  shall  be  sanctified  from  all  unright- 
eousness, as  we  read  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  where  it  says  in  the 
88th  section  thereof : 

"And  the  spirit  and  the  body  are  the  soul  of  man. 

"And  the  resurrection  from  the  dead  is  the  redemption  of  the  soul. 

"And  the  redemption  of  the  soul  is  through  him  that  quickeneth  all  things, 
in  wnose  bosom  it  is  decreed  that  the  poor  and  the  meek  of  the  earth  shall 
inherit  it." 

Why?  Because  they  are  humble,  because  they  are  meek  and 
teachable.  They  will  listen  jto  the  glad  tidings  of  great  joy  and  be 
brought  to  repentance.  But  the  proud  and  the  haughty  will  not.  This 
earth  is  to  be  inherited  and  inhabited  by  the  poor  and  meek  of  the 
earth  that  are  willing  to  do  the  will  of  the  Father. 

"Therefore,  it  [this  earth  upon  which  we  live]  must  needs  be  sanctified  from 
all  unrighteousness,  that  it  may  be  prepared  for  the  celestial  glory." 

The  destiny  of  this  earth  is  to  be  sanctified  from  all  unrighteousness. 
It  is  ito  receive  as  we  believe  its  paradisiacal  glory.  It  is  to  be  celestial- 
ized  and  the  habitation  of  beings  who  are  sanctified  from  all  unright- 
eousness. That  is  the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  purpose  of  sanctify- 
ing the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men,  that  this  earth  upon  which  we 
dwell  may  he  sanctified.  This  earth  that  has  been  defiled  under  the 
inhabitants  thereof  must  be  sanctified  from  all  unrighteousness  in  order 
that  it  may  be  prepared  for  its  celestial  glory.   That  is  what  is  to  come. 

But  .will  ithey  all  accept  that?  No.  Then  what  will  become  of 
those  who  receive  not  this  Gospel  and  do  not  sanctify  themselves  from 
all  unrighteousness  by  the  application  of  these  principles  of  the  Gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  new  and  everlasting  covenant?  What 
will  become  of  them?  !  They  shall  be  swept  off  from  the  face  of  the 
earth,  for  the  .time  is  coming  when  sin  and  Sniquity  shall  be  banished 
from  the  earth  and  when  righteousness  shall  prevail  and  predominate 
and  cover  the  earth  even  las  the  waters  cover  the  mighty  deep. 

May  we  be  numbered  among  those  who  have  sanctified  themselves 
from  all  unrighteousness  by  obedience  to  these  principles  that  have 
within  them  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  sacred  solo,  "If  with  all  your  hearts,"  was  sung  by  Elder  Hyrum 
Christiansen. 


ELDER  BRYANT  S.  HINCKLEY 


33 


ELDER  BRYANT  S.  HINCKLEY 

President  of  Liberty  Stake 

My  heart  is  beating  fast  with  nervous  anxiety.  I  have  been  coming 
to  this  tabernacle  a  long  time  but  this  is  the  first  time  in  my  life  that 
I  have  ever  spoken  in  a  general  conference. 

No  person  ever  enters  this  historic  building  without  a  feeling  of 
solemnity.  Standing  here  I  am  admonished  of  my  own  limitations,  of 
my  own  weaknesses.  It  would  be  arrogant  for  pie  to  assume  the  role 
of  an  instructor. 

When  I  came  this  afternoon  I  observed  for  a  short  ,time  the  men 
who  came  in  and  took  their  places  in  the  section  assigned  to  Presidents 
of  stakes.  The  brother  who  sat  next  to  me  said:  "We  have  both 
lived  to  see  one  generation  of  men  go  and  another  rise  to  responsibility." 
That  is  true.  I  very  well  remember  the  first  time  my  father  brought 
me  to  conference  with  him.  I  remember  the  men  who  used  to  come  to 
conference  in  his  day — John  R.  Murdock  of  Beaver,  Canute  Peterson  of 
Sanpete,  William  Paxman  of  Juab,  Abram  O.  Smoot  of  Utah,  Angus 
M.  Cannon  of  Salt  Lake,  and  men  of  that  type. 

In  those  days  there  were  few  stakes.  I  remember  those  men  well. 
All  of  that  generation  has  passed  and  a  new  generation  is  here. 
They  were  interesting  men,  men  of  heroic  mould,  of  great  faith,  of 
pronounced  individualism,  rugged  men,  but  men  of  fine  extraction. 
Many  of  them  knew  very  little  of  what  is  symbolized  by  the  three  R's 
but  they  were  educated.  They  were  great  men,  made  great  by  their 
experience,  by  the  faith  which  warmed  their  hearts.  They  have  gone 
and  so  have  many  of  their  problems. 

I  remember  in  my  father's  home  we  did  not  even  have  an  electric 
light  when  I  lived  with  him.  There  was  no  plumbing  in  the  house. 
We  had  stoves  and  cedar  wood.  I  never  heard  a  telephone  in  that  house. 
He  never  saw  an  automobile,  never  went  to  a  moving  picture  show ; 
he  never  heard  the  roar  of  an  airplane  or  listened  to  the  magic  of  the 
radio. 

I  suppose  if  my  father  were  permitted  to  return  and  survey  just 
for  an  hour  the  agencies  that  are  at  our  command — could  see  what  we 
enjoy,  I  think  he  would  say  to  me:  "My  boy  you  are  living  in  the 
millennium."  But  we  are  not.  We  are  not  living  in  the  millennium  but 
the  progress  that  has  been  made  is  tremendous.  All  of  these  wonderful 
things  are  commonplace  to  us  now.  The  first  time  I  heard  the  human 
voice  over  the  air  I  thought  the  wonder  and  marvel  of  it  could  never 
become  commonplace,  but  it  has. 

The  other  morning  I  went  into  a  farmer's  house.  The  radio  was 
turned  on  and  I  heard  Lord  Gainsborough  speaking  from  London  upon 
"International  Peace,"  and  I  heard  it  with  clearness.  If  I  were  to  say 
to  my  father:  "You  can  get  in  an  airplane  at  your  home  in  Fillmore 
and  be  at  conference  in  Salt  Lake  in  an  hour,"  he  would  think  it  im- 
possible. His  life  was  simple.  He  wrote  very  few  checks  and  conse- 
quently he  never  had  an  overdraft.  (Laughter.)  He  had  to  answer  com- 
paratively few  questions.    When  I  (went  to  stake  priesthood  meeting 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


they  talked  about  roads  and  canals — things  of  that  kind.  We  do  not 
do  that  now.  That  was  perfectly  legitimate  in  that  day.  These  men 
carried  lover  into  the  details  of  their  daily  life  their  religion.  It  was 
the  thing  that  animated  them,  that  inspired  them,  that  permeated  all 
they  did.  They  were  men  of  great  faith.  Very  many  of  them  knew 
the  Prophet  Joseph.  They  stood  close  to  Brigham  Young.  There  was 
never  in  their  minds  the  shadow  of  a  doubt. 

It  is  true  that  we  live  in  larger  houses  and  wear  better  clothes  and 
eat  finer  food.  But  I  need  not  tell  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
if  we  ever  forsake  the  plain  and  puritanic  virtues  to  which  they  were 
committed  our  day  will  be  a  brief  one.  The  machinery  which  my  father 
used  on  his  farm  is  largely  obsolete.  The  furniture  which  he  had  would 
not  bring  much  in  a  second-hand  store,  |but  his  religious  practices  are 
not  obsolete.  If  they  ever  become  so  among  those  who  bear  his  name  I 
am  certain  there  will  be  the  element  of  travesty  in  it.  These  men  were 
made  great  by  their  faith,  and  that  same  faith  applied  to  this  day  will 
make  their  children  great. 

I  cannot  think  that  Mormonism  is  all  in  the  past,  its  achievements 
are  not  all  in  the  past  tense.   The  present  tense  requires  its  application. 

I  remember  some  of  the  stories  that  I  heard  in  those  days — this  is 
typical.  In  the  settlement  of  Spanish  Fork  the  original  settlers  were 
given  a  small  piece  of  land,  perhaps  five  acres  each.  '  Two  young  men 
from  Scotland  came  there — brothers.  One  remained  in  Spanish  Fork, 
the  other  moved  away.  The  man  who  remained  was  given  his  allotment 
of  land  and,  inspired  by  this  possession,  he  worked  with  a  zeal  that 
made  him  forget  all  his  troubles.  He  never  knew  when  the  sun  went 
down,  he  knew  that  every  stroke  of  his  arm  would  bring  something 
to  him  and  to  his  household.  As  a  result  of  his  thrift  he  was  able  to  get 
five  acres  more.  One  day  the  bishop  said  to  him:  "Here  is  William, 
he  hasn't  any  land  'and  you  have  ten  acres."  William  was  a  shiftless 
sort  of  man.  The  bishop  said  to  this  Scotch  brother:  "I  want  you 
to  give  him  five  acres  of  your  land."  To  appreciate  this  trial  of  faith 
please  bear  in  mind  his  nationality.  (Laughter.)  He  said  to  the  bishop  : 
"Well,  I  will  think  it  over."  He  did.  On  a  fine  fall  day  like  this  he 
was  plowing  in  the  field.  He  had  thought  it  over  carefully.  He  said : 
"Whoa!"  and  the  horses  stopped.  Standing  there  he  said:  "Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet ;  Mormonism  is  true ;  let  them  have  the  land." 

Here  is  another  one:  A  man  had  gone  on  a  mission  and  left  his 
wife  and  children  poorly  provided  for.  One  bight  when  all  of  the  flour 
had  been  used  one  of  the  children  before  going  to  bed  prayed  that  the 
Lord  would  open  the  way  so  that  they  could  have  more  flour.  The 
mother  listened  to  it  and  thought  about  it  and  got  the  inspiration.  No 
sooner  had  the  children  gone  to  bed  than  (this  woman  discovered  among 
her  scanty  belongings  a  little  yarn  and  she  went  busily  to  work  knitting. 
Finally  she  had  a  small  pair  of  stockings  knitted.  In  the  morning  she 
said  to  the  boy :  "Take  these  stockings  and  this  bread  pan  over  to  our 
neighbor  and  see  if  he  won't  give  you  some  flour  in  return  for  the 
stockings."   The  boy  did  so-and  came  back  with  the  pan  filled  with  flour. 


ELDER  BRYANT  S.  HINCKLEY 


35 


I  like  that  kind  of  faith.  That  is  Ifaith  hacked  by  works.  They 
had  to  couple  their  faith  with  works  in  those  days.  Roads  were  not 
built  just  by  saying  prayers. 

I  remember  one  time  while  traveling  in  the  southern  part  of  the 
state  I  saw  a  man  with  a  thin,  frail  team  of  horses  attached  to  a  loaded 
wagon.  He  was  sitting  down  at  the  base  of  a  hill  and  was  figuring  on 
something.  I  said  to  him :  "Lee,  what  are  you  doing  ?"  He  replied : 
"I  am  trying  to  figure  myself  over  that  hill."  Besides  figuring  it  took 
muscle  and  energy  to  get  over  the  hill. 

A  man  in  Idaho  told  me  this  story.  I  like  this  also.  He  said: 
"You  know  we  used  to  ford  the  Snake  River  here,  and  when  it  was  high 
it  was  dangerous.  Your  uncle  and  another  man  had  to  cross  the  river. 
They  had  a  light  wagon  and  a  small  team  and  when  they  got  in  the 
middle  of  the  stream  it  looked  as  if  the  thing  would  capsize,  and  one 
of  them  (said,  'I  want  to  pray.'  The  other  man  said,  'I  prayed  before  I 
got  into  this  stream.  You  get  into  the  back  of  this  wagon  and  hold  the 
bedding  in  and  keep  this  box  balanced,  and  when  you  get  on  the  other 
side  then  you  can  offer  your  gratitude."   I  like  that  quality  of  faith  also. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  1  love  the  faith  of  my  father.  I  am  grate- 
ful to  all  the  powers  that  have  made  possible  the  privileges  and  oppor- 
tunities that  seem  to  have  come  unasked  to  me.  When  I  review  jmy  own 
insignificant  life  I  cannot  help  thanking  that  if  there  is  a  modicum  of 
patriotism  in  my  blood  I  owe  to  this  cause  the  best  I  have  got.  It 
meant  much  to  my  father,  it  has  meant  much  to  me.  'God  help  me  to 
be  true  to  it.  I  have  never  been  on  a  (mission.  Many  of  you  brethren 
have  been  on  missions  ;  but  I  cannot  help  thinking  that  the  most  effective 
way  of  preaching  Mormonism  is  to  'live  it  at  home.  Mormonism,  like 
everything  else,  must  be  measured  by  its  fruits,  and  whether  we  will  or 
not  the  lives  of  the  plain  men  and  women  all  down  the  line  must  be  the 
gauge  by  which  its  power  and  efficacy  will  be  measured.  The  way  to 
preach  Mormonism  is  first  to  live  it  and  to  build  up  within  one's  self  a 
victorious  and  triumphant  personality.  Somehow  when  a  man  is  grap- 
pling with  his  own  weaknesses,  when  he  garnishes  and  sweeps  his  own 
soul  he  gathers  strength,  an  indefinable  strength  that  comes  from  no 
other  source.  You  never  saw  a  Latter-day  jSaint  who  was  vitalized  by 
the  spirit  of  the  Almighty  who  was  afraid. 

I  have  this  ion  my  desk  so  that  every  morning  when  I  come  to  my 
office  I  can  see  it,  this  statement  of  the  Savior  recorded  in  the  fifth 
chapter  of  Mark — five  simple  words:  "Be  not  afraid,  only  believe." 
If  every  Latter-day  Saint  will  cherish  those  words  we  can  easily  weather 
every  storm  and  rise  triumphantly  over  every  circumstance.  All  we  need 
is  the  faith  of  our  fathers  burning  within  our  own  souls  and  we  will 
carry  on. 

God  bless  the  men  and  women  who  are  here  who  represent  the 
faith  and  leadership  of  this  great  Church.  The  Almighty  must  have 
confidence  in  you  or  he  never  would  have  called  you  to  this  high  place. 
May  his  spirit  sustain,  inspire  and  bless  you  to  constant  and  heroic 
endeavor  in  defense  of  this  cause,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Brethren  and  sisters :  Some  months  ago  I  attended  a  conference 
in  one  of  the  stakes  of  the  Church  at  which  a  returned  missionary,  in 
making  a  report  of  his  missionary  labors,  said  the  greatest  handicap 
to  the  progress  of  the  work  in  the  district  where  he  last  labored  was 
the  "Mormons"  who  lived  there.  Of  course  this  statement  seemed 
strange  until  he  hurriedly  explained  that  certain  people  who  had  been 
reared  in  the  Church,  but  later  departed  from  its  teachings,  moved  into 
the  district  and  lived  so  offensively  from  the  standpoint  of  good  morals 
and  righteous  conduct  that  others,  seeing  the  evil  deeds  of  these  so- 
called  "Mormons,"  were  turned  against  anything  "Mormon." 

The  young  missionary  went  on  in  his  address  to  stress  the  value  of 
right  living  by  professed  believers  as  a  means  of  helping  the  spread 
of  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

TEACHING  BY  EXAMPLE 

Of  course  he  was  right  in  his  statement  that  we  may  teach  more 
effectively  "by  example  than  by  precept."  We  remember  the  words  of 
Jesus  in  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount  when  he  said,  "Let  your  light  so 
shine  before  men,  that  they  may  see  your  good  works,  and  glorify  your 
Father  which  is  in  heaven."  And  as  we  read  in  the  First  Epistle  of 
Peter  (2:12)  "Having  your  conversation  honest  among  the  gentiles: 
that,  whereas  they  speak  against  you  as  evil  doers,  they  may  by  your 
good  works,  which  they  shall  behold,  glorify  God  in  the  day  of 
visitation." 

Undoubtedly  Peter  had  in  mind,  when  he  wrote  these  words,  the 
teachings  of  his  Master  when  he  said,  "By  their  fruits  ye  shall  know 
them."  Possibly  the  gentiles  among  whom  the  returned  Elder  worked 
may  also  have  remembered  these  words  of  Jesus  and  were  applying 
his  measuring  stick  to  the  so-called  "Mormons"  in  their  midst. 

But  I  need  not  argue  the  point.  To  call  it  to  your  attention  is 
wholly  sufficient.  Perhaps  there  is  nowhere  a  people  who  accept  more 
literally  than  we  do  the  doctrine  taught  by  John  the  Revelator  "that 
they  were  judged  [in  the  resurrection]  every  man  according  to  his 
works."   This  doctrine  is  one  of  our  fundamentals. 

NOT  GOOD  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

But  I  sometimes  wonder  if  we  are  not  inclined  to  forget  it  just  as 
we  are  subject  to  forget  so  many  other  things.  We  occasionally  sec 
persons  who  appear  to  be  devout,  sincere  believers,  who  profess  to 
be  Latter-day  Saints,  who  have  read  and  can  quote  much  scripture  and 
yet  who,  judged  by  their  fruits,  fall  far  short  of  a  good  Christian 
standard.  They  are  slow  "to  do  unto  others  as  they  would  have  others 
do  unto  them."  They  are  not  generous,  they  are  not  honest.  Their 
word  is  not  as  good  as  their  bond.   They  are  not  loyal  to  their  professed 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


37 


principles.  Their  lives,  in  a  measure  at  least,  are  only  a  sham  and  a 
hypocrisy.    Now,  of  course,  such  people  are  not  good  Latter-day  Saints. 

PEOPLE  WHO  CAN  PAY  BUT  WILL  NOT 

I  sometimes  think  that  a  dishonest  person  should  not  be  fellow- 
shipped  in  the  Church  until  he  repents.  A  person  who  can  and  will  not 
pay  his  bills,  for  example,  cannot  be  accepted  of  God,  and  therefore 
cannot  have  the  companionship  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  I  am  led  to  say 
this  because,  if  we  are  rightly  informed,  there  are  people  among  us 
"who  can  pay  but  will  not."  They  are  taking  advantage  of  the  situation 
that  makes  it  impossible  for  many  honest  people  to  pay  their  debts 
and  because  these  cannot,  the  others  conceal  their  own  conditions  and 
will  not.  I  hasten  to  say,  however,  that  I  believe  the  faults  of  which 
I  complain  are  by  no  means  general.  That  they  do  exist  all  too 
frequently,  however,  all  experienced  people  will  testify.  Ask  doctors, 
dentists,  and  other  professional  people  in  Salt  Lake  City.  They  have 
had  experiences  that  try  their  faith  in  the  honor  of  many  so-called 
"good  people."  Dishonesty  is  one  of  the  sins  of  which  those  who  are 
guilty  are  called  to  repent. 

THE  WORD  OF  A  "MORMON" 

Some  of  you,  perhaps,  have  heard  President  Grant  relate  the  story 
of  a  manufacturer  in  the  Middle  Wfest  who  rode  up  to  a  street  meeting 
that  our  missionaries  were  holding  in  a  city  of  Indiana  and  gave  the 
crowd  an  oral  character  certificate  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  This  was 
many  years  ago.  He  told  the  meeting  that  the  word  of  a  "Mormon"  was 
as  good  as  his  bond,  that  his  company  had  done  many  thousands  of 
dollars'  worth  of  business  with  the  "Mormons"  and  had  never  lost  a 
dollar.  It  would  be  extremely  creditable  to  our  people  if  such  a 
statement  could  be  truthfully  made  of  us  today  by  all  who  do  business 
with  us.  But  I  have  no  hesitancy  in  saying  that  real  Latter-day  Saints 
have  as  much  financial  honor  today  as  they  ever  had.  They  accept  as 
truth  the  declaration  of  one  of  Shakespeare's  characters  that : 

"Mine  honour  is  my  life;  both  grow  in  one: 
Take  honour  from  me,  and  my  life  is  done." , 

Any  man  who  fails  in  honor  fails  to  the  same  degree  in  being 
a  Latter-day  Saint.  His  life  is  not  as  a  light  set  upon  a  hill  that  attracts 
others  to  works  of  righteousness. 

But  let  every  person  realize,  however  lowly  or  unimportant  he  may 
feel  himself  to  be,  still  he  is  not  without  influence  for  good  or  for  ill. 
He  is  accountable  to  God  for  his  influence.  He  is  called  upon  to  be 
"honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,"  and  to  do  good  to  all  men. 
No  one  in  the  Church,  no  matter  what  his  condition,  is  exempt  from 
living  these  requirements.  No  one  in  the  Church,  therefore,  is  exempt 
from  living  the  "golden  rule." 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


OUR  RESPONSIBILITY  AS  CITIZENS 

Now  there  is  another  article  of  our  faith,  the  12th,  to  which  I  desire 
to  call  your  attention. 

"We  believe  in  being  subject  to  kings,  presidents,  rulers  and 
magistrates,  in  obeying,  honoring  and  sustaining  the  law." 

In  the  light  of  this  declaration  every  real  Latter-day  Saint  is  a  good 
citizen.  He  is  loyal  to  civil  authority,  an  observer  of  law,  a  supporter 
of  those  who  make  and  enforce  the  law.  But  this  is  not  all.  Good 
citizenship  requires  something  more  of  a  person  than  to  be  loyal  to 
authority  and  to  be  law-abiding. 

We  are  living  under  democratic  forms  of  government.  This  puts 
certain  responsibilities  upon  the  shoulders  of  the  citizens,  upon  those  who 
enjoy  the  privileges  of  the  franchise.  The  voters  elect  the  officers,  those 
who  make,  interpret,  and  execute  the  laws.  The  government  will, 
therefore,  be  good  or  bad  depending  on  the  character,  wisdom,  ability 
and  efficiency  of  its  officers.  To  have  a  good  government  we  must  have 
good  officers,  and  to  have  good  officers  the  voters  must  do  their  duty. 
They  must  enter  politics,  that  is,  take  an  active  part  in  all  those  forms, 
processes  and  functions  needful  to  elect  and  stand  by  and  support 
good  officers. 

The  government  cannot  be  left  to  professional  politicians  to  elect 
themselves  and  to  rule  in  their  selfish  interests.  If  this  were  done  the 
people  would  suffer  from  unjust  laws,  unjustly  and  oppressively  ad- 
ministered.   Experience  abundantly  testifies  to  this  truth. 

KNOW  THE  TRUTH  AND  FOLLOW  IT  • 

Now,  if  a  citizen  is  to  do  well  his  part  in  securing  good  government 
he  must  be  well  informed  on  public  questions  and  problems.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  taught  that  man  cannot  be  saved  in  ignorance  and 
that  the  glory  of  God  is  intelligence.  These  are  fundamental  doctrines 
with  us.  Hence  to  please  our  Father  in  heaven,  we  must  continually 
strive  for  wisdom,  knowledge,  intelligence — we  must  keep  growing  in 
God-like  attributes. 

Can  we  vote  intelligently  and  wisely  unless  we  are  informed  on  the 
questions  and  candidates  at  issue  ?  But  does  not  good  citizenship  require 
us  to  vote  in  this  manner?  I  think  so.  We  then  should  make  a 
careful  study  of  these  questions,  study  them  open-mindedly  and  as  fully 
and  deeply  as  circumstances  will  permit.  To  do  this  we  must  not  be 
bound  by  a  spirit  of  partisanship.  Principles  and  policies  should  guide 
us  rather  than  self-seeking  politicians.  We  should  follow  the  truth 
rather  than  deceptive  propaganda. 

But  how  shall  we  know  the  truth?  Learn  all  the  facts  pertaining 
to  the  case,  interpret  them  fairly,  justly,  truthfully,  and  with  a  sincere 
desire  to  be  wise  and  to  act  for  the  best  good  of  all,  at  least  for  the 
majority.  Then  we  shall  not  be  far  from  the  truth.  Good  citizenship 
requires  that  we  shall  not  be  carried  away  from  a  safe  anchorage  by 
misleading  propaganda,  fostered  by  selfish  interests. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


39 


MISLEADING  PROPAGANDA 

Let  me  illustrate :  During  the  past  several  months  and  particularly 
in  the  Chicago  conventions  in  June  of  the  national  political  parties  the 
liquor  question  occupied  a  prominent  place.  As  I  see  it,  this  was  the 
result  of  an  intensive  campaign  for  the  repeal  of  the  Eighteenth 
Amendment  to  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States.  And  for  a 
number  of  years  this  campaign  has  been  gathering  strength  until  today 
it  has  attained  mighty  proportions.  That  it  has  acquired  the  character 
of  misleading  propaganda  I  must  believe.  Do  you  ask  for  my  reasons 
for  so  believing?   I  will  give  you  a  few  of  them. 

One  evening  last  May  when  I  was  passing  through  Butte,  Montana, 
I  read  in  an  evening  paper  that  the  head  of  the  Montana  division  of 
the  women's  organization  for  national  prohibition  reform  "appealed  to 
the  women  of  Montana  to  join  and  support  the  organization  in  its  efforts 
to  restore  law  and  order,  to  safeguard  the  homes  and  family  ties  in 
the  nation  through  prohibition  repeal.  *  *  *  The  direct  objects  of  this 
women's  organization,"  the  state  leader  announced,  "are  the  closing  up 
of  speak-easies,  the  abolition  of  gin  mills  and  roadhouses ;  putting  the 
bootlegger  out  of  business,  taking  the  profits  out  of  crime,  and  the 
restoration  of  respect  for  law." 

All  of  them  are  perfectly  worthy  objectives  and  undoubtedly  all 
good  people  will  stand  for  them.  But  behold  the  means  by  which  it  is 
proposed  to  attain  them  !  Did  you  ever  hear  of  anything  more  deceptive  ? 
Yet  many  accept  this  propaganda,  convinced  that  the  objectives  and 
the  means  are  as  logically  connected  as  are  cause  and  effect  in  the 
natural  world.  Of  course  this  particular  propaganda  takes  account  of 
two  facts.  First,  that  people  in  general  are  very  forgetful,  and  second, 
that  millions  of  voters  in  America  had  not  yet  reached  the  legal  voting 
age  when  national  prohibition  went  into  effect.  From  observation  and 
personal  experience  they  know  little  or  nothing  of  the  old  saloon  days 
and  the  almost  intolerable  evils,  linked  with,  and  attendant  upon,  the 
liquor  traffic.  And  people  are  forgetful,  very  forgetful.  Many  of  the 
older  people  now  favoring  the  repeal  of  the  Eighteenth  Amendment 
seem  to  have  forgotten  the  old  conditions,  and  knowing  that  conditions 
today  relative  to  liquor  drinking  are  not  so  good  as  they  ought  to  be, 
appear  to  be  ready  to  "jump  from  the  frying  pan  into  the  fire"  as  a 
result  of  the  repeal  propaganda. 

Among  other  things  it  is  said  that  repeal  will  bring  back  prosperity, 
reduce  crime,  stop  racketeering  and  do  many  other  very  desirable 
things.  Experienced,  as  well  as  informed,  people  all  know  that  repeal 
will  make  all  these  matters  worse,  much  worse,  instead  of  better.  But 
in  times  like  these  any  propaganda  that  promises  relief  from  present 
ills  appears  to  many  as  does  a  straw  to  a  drowning  man — a  safe  support 
or  a  secure  anchorage.  Hence  the  condition  of  the  times  produces  the 
very  atmosphere  in  which  wild  propaganda  of  various  kinds  flourish. 

MOTIVATED  BY  SELFISHNESS 

Let  me  give  another  illustration  of  the  tendency  of  the  times,  that 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  more  and  more  people  to  climb  on  the  financial  back  of  the  govern- 
ment or  of  some  other  supporting  organization.  That  relief  is,  and 
has  been,  absolutely  necessary  in  thousands  and  millions  of  cases  we 
have  no  reason  to  doubt.  But  in  some  cases,  we  must  believe  that 
demands  for  relief,  at  least  to  the  extent  it  has  been  demanded,  were 
unjust  or  contained  elements  of  unfairness  or  selfishness.  The  Federal 
treasury  has  been  the  destination  of  countless  raids  inspired  by  selfish 
motives.  And  right  now  are  we  sure  that  selfishness  does  not  motivate, 
in  part  at  least,  the  amount  of  help  that  is  being  requested  of  the  Federal 
treasury?  But  these  are  loans,  you  say,  and  surely  no  one  will  borrow 
more  money  than  he  really  needs.  Well,  the  relief  extended  by  the 
Federal  government  last  winter  through  the  Red  Cross  was  not  a  loan. 
Did  selfishness  inspire  any  individual  requests  for  this  aid? 

We  all  know  that  many  people  are  in  trouble  at  the  present  time 
because  they  borrowed,  or  at  least  borrowed  more  than  was  really 
necessary.  Are  some  people  trying  to  borrow  Federal  money  today  with 
secret  suspicions  or  hopes  that  the  loans  will  never  be  repaid?  Are 
motives  for  borrowing  wholly  good? 

Brethren  and  sisters,  for  many  years  Latter-day  Saints  have  been 
warned  from  this  very  pulpit  against  going  into  debt,  and  if  they  were 
in  debt  they  were  advised  to  get  out  of  debt  as  soon  as  possible.  May 
it  not  be  that  many  of  us  are  now  suffering  because  we  neglected  this 
divinely  inspired  advice?  Shall  any  Latter-day  Saint  continue  the 
practice  of  borrowing  unless,  indeed,  it  is  really  necessary? 

SEEKING  GOVERNMENT  HELP 

But  to  return  to  our  point — that  of  seeking  help  from  the  gov- 
ernment, whether  it  be  a  local  or  national  government.  This  search, 
of  course,  takes  many  forms.  That  governments  in  times  like  these 
(and  in  certain  cases  at  all  times)  ought  to  give  the  help  needful  to 
keep  people  from  suffering  for  the  necessities  of  life,  I  do  not  question 
at  all  but  think  it  entirely  proper.  I  said  there  are  many  raids  upon 
public  treasuries.  Do  you  believe  this?  If  so,  what  are  you  going 
to  do  about  it?  We  cry  "reduce  expenditures,  cut  down  taxes."  Yes, 
we  are  all  in  favor  of  doing  these  very  things  except  when  it  appears 
that  doing  them  will  adversely  affect  us.  Then  we  face  about.  "Do 
it  to  the  other  fellows  but  not  to  us,"  seems  to  be  our  attitude.  Many 
illustrations  might  be  given  but  time  will  not  permit  me  to  do  it.  You 
can  all  name  them  yourselves. 

"Soak  the  rich"  is  a  popular  cry,  appealing  to  the  unthinking 
multitudes  who  seldom  stop  to  analyze  it  from  the  standpoint  of  right 
and  wrong  and  to  reason  out  what  the  consequences  of  such  a  policy 
would  be.  I  refer  to  this  cry  as  another  propaganda  that  a  good  citizen 
and  certainly  a  Latter-day  Saint  should  carefully  examine  before  ac- 
cepting or  having  anything  to  do  with  it. 

LIVE  BLAMELESSLY  BEFORE  THE  LORD 

In  these  brief  moments  I  refer  to  a  few  only  of  the  propagandas 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


41 


with  which  the  country  is  being  flooded ;  and  I  do  this  for  the  purpose 
of  urging  all  with  whom  I  may  have  influence  to  live  blamelessly  before 
the  Lord.  To  do  this  requires,  I  believe,  that  we  shall  be  true  and 
loyal  to  our  respective  governments,  as  well  as  to  the  Church  of 
Christ,  of  which  we  are  members.  Membership  in  each  organization 
carries  duties  and  obligations.  And  to  discharge  these  satisfactorily 
for  our  best  good  and  for  the  best  good  of  our  fellow  men  and  acceptably 
to  God  must  we  not  be  clear-headed,  thoughtful,  studious,  well-informed, 
fair,  just,  unselfish,  and  have  a  love  for  God  as  well  as  for  man  in 
our  hearts? 

NOT  THROUGH  THE  WISDOM  OF  MEN 

We  are  living  in  critical  times.  If  there  was  ever  a  period  during 
my  life  when  we  needed  to  pray  I  think  it  is  now.  Who  is  wise 
among  us?  Is  it  not  written  that  "the  wisdom  of  their  wise  men 
shall  perish?"  Of  what  people  and  of  what  period  of  time  did  Isaiah 
make  this  prophecy  ?  There  is  none  wise  among  us  except  as  the  Lord 
shall  inspire  him.  It  shall  not  be  the  wisdom  of  men  that  will  bring 
back  peace  and  prosperity  to  this  nation  but  the  righteousness  of  the 
people  following  the  lead  of  men  whom  the  Lord  will  graciously  inspire. 
All  you  who  hear  these  words  please  do  not  forget  them.  And  so  read 
again  and  again  I  beg  of  you,  the  message  that  God  gave  to  this  people 
and  to  the  peoples  of  the  world  through  his  servants,  the  Presidency 
of  this  Church,  in  their  Christmas  Greetings,  published  in  the  Deseret 
News,  Dec.  19,  1931. 

To  all  who  hear  my  voice  and  to  whom  these  words  shall  come, 
may  I  send  an  appeal  that  you  will  try  to  be  loyal  and  true  to  your 
government  and  live  righteously  before  the  Lord.  May  our  Heavenly 
Father  help  us  to  do  these  things,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

President  of  the  Central  States  Mission 

I  bring  you  greetings  from  the  Saints  and  missionaries  in  the 
Central  States  Mission,  who  are  loyal  to  the  Church  and  who  are  work- 
ing, I  think,  as  faithfully  as  could  be  expected.  I  am  sure,  my  brethren 
and' sisters,  that  the  work  of  the  Lord  is  growing  and  though  these 
times  are  trying  the  hearts  of  men  and  women  both  in  the  field  and  at 
home,  I  am  positive  that  there  is  an  increased  faith  found  among  the 
youth  of  Zion. 

I  have  had  an  opportunity  to  measure  in  a  way  the  standards  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  as  I  find  them  expressed  through  their  boys  and 
girls  whom  they  send  into  the  mission  field.  I  am  sure  that  faith  is 
increasing  and  that  the  younger  men  who  come  out  now,  and  the  young 
women  also,  have  a  firm  testimony  of  the  Gospel.  It  is  true  that  this 
testimony  has  to  be  developed,  but  when  it  is  developed  it  becomes  a 
power  within  them.   It  is  inspiring  to  be  associated  with  them. 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Only  today,  by  way  of  example^and  I  think  I  can  mention  it  with 
freedom — I  talked  to  a  young  woman  whose  sweetheart  is  in  the  mission 
field.  When  he  first  came  into  the  field  he  had  a  severe  trial,  that  of 
losing  his  mother.  He  felt  as  if  he  must  go  home.  Later,  he  was 
tempted  more  than  ever  to  return,  because  he  was  fearful  of  losing  his 
sweetheart.  She,  however,  wrote  him  that  if  he  came  home  on  her 
account  it  would  be  of  no  avail,  for  she  would  not  want  to  receive  him. 

To  me  that  is  another  testimony  to  the  faith  and  integrity  of  the 
youth  of  our  people.  That  the  Lord  is  blessing  them,  is  manifested 
continually  by  the  boys  and  girls  who  fill  places  in  the  field  as  mission- 
aries. 

We  do  not  know  just  how  much  we  are  accomplishing  in  our 
work,  but  I  bear  witness  that  there  is  faith  in  the  hearts  of  the  children 
of  men  who  have  joined  this  Church  in  the  mission  field,  and  they  are 
diligently  performing  their  duty.  Many  of  them  are  taking  the  place 
of  missionaries  in  these  times  when  we  are  not  able  to  get  the  help  we 
need,  and  in  a  way  it  is  a  blessing  in  disguise,  for  many  men  and  women 
who  ordinarily  would  not  be  found  doing  missionary  work  are  active 
now  in  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel,  in  the  holding  of  cottage  meetings, 
in  the  holding  of  sacrament  meetings,  and  in  visiting  branches  of  the 
Church  in  different  parts  of  the  mission.  Where  missionaries  formerly 
had  to  do  it  the  local  people  now  are  taking  the  responsibility  of  carrying 
on  that  part  of  the  work,  and  as  a  result  we  find  an  increased  faith  and 
growth  and  a  development  such  as  we  have  never  seen  before.  I  am 
sure,  my  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  we  need  have  no  fears  if  we 
do  our  part.  I  am  just  as  sure  as  that  I  am  alive  that  if  I  do  my  part 
the  Lord  will  do  his.  I  know  that  the  responsibility  of  carrying  this 
Gospel  to  the  world  depends  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints,  under  the 
direction  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  and  the  Twelve  and  those 
who  are  associated  with  them. 

We  have  important  work  to  do.  Every  man  who  has  a  position 
in  this  Church  has  his  work  to  do,  and  I  think  that  the  Lord  fills  him 
with  a  desire,  if  he  will  seek  for  that  desire,  and  gives  him  the  inspira- 
tion, the  wisdom,  the  vigor  and  the  power  to  carry  on  the  work.  The 
Lord's  purposes  will  not  fail.  I  am  not  fearful  in  the  least  about  it. 
I  have  never  known,  in  all  the  years  I  have  been  in  the  mission  field, 
a  weakness  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ;  neither  have  I  ever  seen 
successfully  assailed,  either  by  word  or  pen,  one  of  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel  which  have  been  restored  through  the  revelations  of  Jesus 
Christ  to  Joseph  Smith. 

So  the  work  of  the  Lord  is  positively  established  in  the  world.  I 
take  great  pleasure  in  bearing  my  testimony  to  you  that  I  know  that 
this  is  the  work  of  God.  If  I  had  time  this  afternoon  I  could  tell  you 
why  I  know  it  to  be  true.  My  brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  will  do  our 
part,  if  we  will  fit  ourselves,  if  we  will  be  as  clay  in  the  potter's  hands 
in  carrying  out  the  wishes  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ,  I  have 
no  fear.  We  cannot  do  anything  without  his  help.  It  is  his  work,  it  is 
not  ours.    It  is  his  Father's  work.    That  is  the  testimony  he  bore  when 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


43 


he  was  on  the  earth:  "My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  his  that  sent  me. 
If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it 
be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself." 

That  same  challenge  is  in  the  world  today.  The  Lord  has  estab- 
lished his  Church  in  the  earth  in  this  day  and  brought  the  people  unto 
this  land  to  build  up  his  kingdom  and  the  great  plan  that  he  formulated 
in  the  beginning.  He  has  to  do  it  through  his  sons  and  his  daughters 
under  the  direction  of  our  Savior,  Jesus  Christ,  and  it  could  not  be  done 
in  any  other  way. 

I  know  that  the  authority  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  placed  in  the 
men  who  hold  the  power  of  presidency  today;  I  know  that  Heber  J. 
Grant  is  at  the  head  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
by  divine  appointment.  I  know  that  he  was  ordained  to  that  calling 
as  Joseph  the  Prophet  was  before  him.  If  you  will  read  the  thirteenth 
chapter  of  Alma,  third  verse,  you  will  find  the  authority  for  it.  I  know 
that  the  men  he  has  selected  to  be  associated  with  him  in  the  Quorum 
of  the  Twelve,  are  men  of  God,  and  that  in  their  hands  the  Lord  has 
left  his  work.  They  conduct  the  affairs  of  the  Church  under  the 
direction  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  this  work  will  be  found  growing 
stronger  every  day. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  sustain  it  by  sustaining  ourselves,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Come,  come,  ye  /Saints." 
Patriarch  Israel  Call  of  the  South  Davis  Stake  closed  the  meeting 
with  prayer. 

The  Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Saturday  morning, 
October  8. 


SECOND  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

The  Conference  reconvened  Saturday  morning,  October  8,  at  10 
o'clock. 

President  Anthony  W.  Ivins  announced  that  the  congregation  would 
sing  the  hymn,  "O  ye  mountains  high." 

After  the  singing  of  the  hymn  by  the  large  assembly,  which  nearly 
filled  the  great  tabernacle  and  galleries,  Elder  Joseph  Bennett,  Patriarch, 
Salt  Lake  Stake,  offered  the  invocation. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Do  what  is  right." 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  \the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

We  appreciate  your  attendance,  my  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends, 
at  this  conference.  We  welcome  you.  We  thank  you  for  your  presence 
and  feel  that  we  need  your  faith  and  your  help  in  considering  the  great 
questions  which  confront  us  as  a  people  at  this  particular  time.  We 
are  grateful  for  the  beautiful  weather  that  the  Lord  has  given  us  for 
the  holding  of  our  conference. 

We  regret  the  absence  of  President  jGrant  and  of  Elder  Ballard, 
both  of  whom  have  recently  undergone  more  or  less  serious  operations, 
but  we  understand  that  through  the  blessing  of  the  Lord  they  are  both 
well  on  toward  recovery.  We  trust  that  the  prayers  of  the  Saints  will 
foe  continued  in  their  behalf  and  that  the  mercy  of  the  Lord  will  be 
extended  unto  them,  that  they  may  soon  be  fully  recovered. 

one  way  Of  relieving  distress 

I  think  perhaps  some  of  the  people  have  been  asking  the  question : 
What  is  going  to  be  said  or  done,  during  the  conference,  to  relieve  the 
distressing  condition  of  the  people  in  this  time  of  (financial  depression. 
Some  references  to  these  conditions  have  already  been  made  and  some 
important  advice  and  counsel  have  been  given. 

I  should  like  to  contribute  something  toward  the  solution  of  this 
great  question :  What  can  be  done  to  help  ?  |  I  remember  that  in  Pres- 
ident Ivins'  talk  in  the  first  session  of  this  conference,  yesterday  morning, 
he  reported  an  increase  in  the  work  being  accomplished  in  the  temples, 
and  X  was  reminded  of  a  conversation  which  I  had  with  a  brother  a 
few  days  ago,  as  I  met  (him  on  the  street.  He  is  a  man  about  my  age, 
whom  I  have  known  since  we  were  boys  together.  He  is  living  here 
in  Salt  Lake  and  is  a  hard-working  man.  He  .volunteered  to  say  that 
at  the  last  conference  we  were  reminded  that  there  were  a  great  many 
people  out  of  employment ;  that  the  temples  could  accommodate  many 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


45 


more  people  than  were  attending"  the  ordinance  sessions  there;  that 
members  of  the  Church  who  had  employment,  and  Swho  had  work  to 
be  done  in  the  temples,  would  do  well  to  employ  some  of  these  faithful, 
unemployed  members  of  the  Church  to  work  for  them  in  the  temple. 
He  said  that  he  felt  that  that  instruction  was  given  for  him,  and  he 
began  expending  about  $5.00  a  month  from  his  meager  earnings,  and 
up  to  the  present  time  had  spent  about  $75.00  along'  that  line. 

As  President  Ivins  'was  mentioning  yesterday  the  increase  in  at- 
tendance at  the  temples,  I  wondered  to  what  extent  that  advice  given 
six  months  ago  had  affected  the  Latter-day  Saints,  as  it  had  this  one  good 
brother  to  whom  I  refer,  and  to  what  extent  that  action  on  the  part 
of  the  Saints  is  responsible  for  the  increase  of  work  being  done. 

For  your  information,  in  order  to  be  more  definite  as  to  the  increase 
of  temple  work,  I  will  say  that  during  the  first  six  months  of  this  year 
the  endowment  work  performed  in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple  exceeded 
that  of  the  same  period  last  year  by  22,956  endowments.  The  increase 
in  number  of  baptisms  performed  (for  the  same  period  was  20,330.  I 
am  sure  this  will  be  a  real  astonishment  to  many  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  especially  those  who  are  not  themselves  active  in  accomplishing 
this  work. 

The  advice  given  six  months  |ago  is  just  as  applicable  today  as  it 
was  then,  and  I  hope  that  we  will  in  this  way  try  to  alleviate  the  dis- 
tress of  some  of  our  brethren  and  sisters,  hy  employing  them  to  do 
some  of  this  kind  of  work  (for  us.  That  is  one  way  of  helping  both  the 
living  and  the  dead  and  lis  pure  religion. 

THROUGH  FAILURE  TO  OBSERVE  COUNSEL 

There  are  different  classes  of  misfortune  that  have  come  to  our  . 
people  in  what  we  call  the  financial  depression.  There  is  a  class  of 
people  who  depend  upon  others  for  employment.  They  have  been  in 
the  habit  of  living  up  to  their  income  or  a  little  beyond.  They  are  now 
thrown  out  of  employment  because  of  this  condition  of  depression  and 
are  stranded  and  penniless,  many  of  these  not  having  homes  of  their  own. 

We  have  been  counseled  and  advised  by  the  Authorities  of  this 
Church,  from  the  beginning, .  that  we  should  try  to  live  within  our 
means  and  lay  jup  something  for  a  rainy  day,  a  time  of  sickness  or  other 
emergencies  that  might  arise.  Had  this  advice  and  counsel  been  heeded 
to  the  full  by  the  members  of  the  Church,  much  of  the  distress  of  today 
would  have  been  avoided. 

There  is  another  class  of  people  who,  a  few  years  ago,  were  prosper- 
ing, having  great  demand,  at  good*  prices,  for  their  products,  and  they 
bought  more  land  in  order  to  make  more  money,  perhaps  to  buy  more 
land.  At  any  rate,  many  of  our  brethren  have  been  hired  to  the 
purchase  of  farms  and  ranches  and  stock  that  they  were  not  prepared 
to  pay  for.  In  order  to  make  what  they  would  call  a  good  purchase, 
many  of  them  have  mortgaged  their  home  and  ;the  farm,  which  was 
until  that  time  unencumbered  and  yielding  them  good  return,  in  order 
to  raise  the  money  with  which  to  make  the  first  payment  on  additional 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


lands  or  cattle.  The  times  did  not  continue  as  they  had  been.  The 
products  were  not  bringing  the  prices  fthat  they  were  formerly  bringing. 
In  some  instances  there  was  a  scarcity  of  water  and  a  shortage  of  crops, 
and  many  of  these  people  were  placed  at  their  Jwits'  ends  to  know  how 
to  meet  these  obligations,  where  their  home  and  farm  were  mortgaged 
and  the  additional  farm  or  stock  was  also  mortgaged.  Some  have 
struggled  on  and  have  gone  to  the  limit  of  their  resources  in  an  effort 
to  make  these  payments,  and  ,then  finally  have  found  that  they  were  not 
able  to  meet  their  obligations,  and  have  lost  their  home,  their  farm,  and 
the  annexed  property. 

That  represents  a  class,  and  they  are  numerous  among  us  as  Latter- 
day  Saints.  This  condition  could  have  been  avoided  had  the  advice  and 
counsel  of  the  Authorities  of  this  Church,  whom  we  sustain  by  our 
vote  as  prophets,  seers  and  revelators,  been  heeded.  They  have  counseled 
and  advised  that  we  do  not  run  into  debt ;  that  we  avoid  Speculation  with 
borrowed  money.  We  can  now  see  the  wisdom  of  that  counsel  and  that 
advice.  1 

There  is  another  class  of  people  who,  thinking  to  get  rich  quick, 
have  speculated  in  stocks,  in  oil  fields,  in  picture  films,  in  dream  mines, 
and  many  other  fake  .stocks  and  enterprises  which  they  bave  been 
advised  against,  and  this  to  their  sorrow. 

The  Lord  has  said :  "Whether  it  be  by  my  own  mouth  or  by  the 
mouth  of  my  servants,  it  is  the  same."  These  men  are  upheld,  by  our 
vote,  as  prophets  of  God,  and  as  such  we  would  do  well  to  follow  their 
advice  and  counsel.  Had  we  done  so  as  a  people  much  lof  the  distress 
we  see  about  us  would  have  been  averted. 

FROM  A  SMALL  BEGINNING 

The  Lord,  in  a  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  known  as  the 
64th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  says  this: 

"Wherefore,  be  not  weary  in  well-doing,  for  ye  are  laying  the  foundation  of  a 
great  iwork.   And  out  of  small  things  proceedeth  that  which  is  great." 

Daniel's  interpretation  of  Nebuchadnezzar's  dream,  as  the  Lord 
gave  it  to  him,  was  that  in  the  last  days — that  expression  is  used — in 
the  days  of  certain  kings  also  should  the  God  of  heaven  set  up  a  kingdom 
that  should  never  be  thrown  down  or  be  given  to  another  people.  It 
was  likened  iimto  a  stone  cut  out  of  the  mountain  without  hands,  that 
should  roll  forth  until  it  should  fill  the  whole  earth. 

This  Church  and  the  Gospel  constitute  Mormonism,  the  biggest 
thing  in  this  world,  yet  ,it  had  a  very  small  beginning.  We  read  in  the 
Acts  of  the  Apostles,  where  Peter,  in  addressing  those  Jews  who  were. 
I  suppose,  responsible  for  the  killing  of  the  Savior,  said : 

"Repent  ye  therefore,  and  be  converted,  that  your  sins  may  be  blotted  out, 
when  the  times  of  refreshing  shall  come  from  the  presence  of  the  Lord ; 

"And  he  shall  send  Jesus  Christ,  which  before  was  preached  unto  you: 
"Whom  the  heaven  must  receive  until  the  times  of  restitution  of  all  things, 
which  God  hath  spoken  by  the  mouth  of  all  his  holy  prophets  since  the  world 
began." 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


47 


Everything  pertaining  to  this  Church  and  the  Gospel  is  a  restora- 
tion. 

FASTING  AND  OFFERINGS  CLOSELY  ASSOCIATED 

I  desire  to  call  your  attention,  'brethren  and  sisters,  to  the  tithes 
and  the  fast  offerings.  Fasting  and  offerings  have  been  associated 
closely  always.  I  will  read  to  you  a  few  words  from  Isaiah  on  this 
subject.  He  goes  on  to  tell  that  the  people's  fasting  was  not  acceptable 
and  tells  why.  Then  he  says  : 

"Is  not  this  the  fast  that  I  have  chosen?  to  loose  the  bands  of  wickedness,  to 
undo  the  heavy  burdens,  and  to  let  the  oppressed  go  free,  and  that  ye  break 
every  yoke? 

"Is  it  not  to  deal  thy  |bread  to  the  hungry,  and  that  thou  bring  the  poor  that 
are  cast  out  to  thy  house?  when  thou  seest  the  naked,  that  thou  cover  him; 
and  that  ;thou  hide  not  thyself  from  thine  own  flesh? 

"Then  shall  thy  light  break  forth  as  the  morning,  and  thine  health  shall 
spring  forth  speedily:  and  thy  righteousness  shall  go  before  thee;  the  glory  of 
the  Lord  shall  be  thy  reward. 

"Then  shalt  thou  call,  and  the  Lord  shall  answer ;  thou  shaft  cry,  and  he 
shall  say,  Here  I  am." 

The  offerings,  according  to  Isaiah,  are  naturally  a  part  of  the  fast, 
and  help  to  make  the  fast  acceptable  to  the  Lord.  We  ought  to  get  that 
fixed  in  our  minds.  Malachi  associates  the  offerings  with  the  tithes  as 
follows  (Malachi,  third  chapter)  : 

"For  I  am  the  Lord,  I  change  not;  therefore  ye  sons  of  Jacob  are  not 
consumed. 

"Even  from  the  days  of  your  fathers  ye  are  gone  away  from  mine  ordinances, 
-and  have  not  kept  them.  Return  unto  me,  and  I  will  return  unto  you,  saith  the 
Lord  of  hosts.    But  ye  said,  Wherein  shall  we  return? 

"Will  a  man  rob  God?  Yet  ye  have  robbed  me.  But  ye  say,  Wherein  have 
we  robbed  thee?    In  tithes  and  offerings. 

"Ye  are  cursed  with  a  curse:  for  ye  have  robbed  me,  even  this  whole  nation. 

"Bring  ye  all  the  tithes  into  the  storehouse,  that  there  may  be  meat  in  mine 
house,  and  prove  me  now  herewith,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  if  I  will  not  open 
you  the  windows  of  heaven,  land  pour  you  out  a  blessing,  that  there  shall  not 
be  room  enough  to  receive  it." 

FASTING  AND  OFFERINGS  ESTABLISHED 

Tithes,  offerings  and  fasting — a  restoration  in  these  days.  What 
does  it  mean?  In  the  early  rise  of  this  Church  there  was  established, 
as  a  restoration,  this  principle  of  fasting  and  giving  offerings  for  the 
poor.  One  day  each  month  was  set  apart.  The  members  of  the  Church 
were  asked  to  abstain  from  eating  two  meals  of  the  three  which  they 
are  accustomed  to  having,  and  to  give  the  value  of  what  they  would  save 
by  the  fast,  for  the  support  of  the  poor.  If  we  bad  observed  this  fully 
and  faithfully,  brethren  and  sisters,  there  would  have  been  ample  in 
the  Church,  from  that  fund  alone,  to  take  care  of  all  who  are  in  need 
of  assistance. 

IF  STRICTLY  OBSERVED 

Let  us  just  see  for  a  moment.  The  population  of  this  Church  is 
in  the  neighborhood  of  700,000;  we  will  say  600,000.    If  all  of  the 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


members  of  the  Church  had  observed  fully  and  faithfully  this  advice 
and  counsel  from  the  beginning  see  what  ,it  would  mean.  Estimating 
the  average  value  of  a  meal  at  fifteen  cents,  two  meals  a  day,  thirty 
cents;  for  600,000  people,  $180,000.00  a  month.  Think  of  it!  Or 
$2,160,000.00  per  year!  We  have  not  always  been  as  populous  as  we 
are  now,  but  had  we  observed  that  one  obligation,  all  the  poor  would 
have  been  taken  care  of  and  there  would  have  been  an  accumulating 
surplus  for  a  time  of  emergency  such  as  we  are  having  today.  It  is 
a  little  thing  out  of  which  great  things  would  come  if  we  were  doing 
our  part.   The  Lord  has  planned  it  all  right ;  the  failure  is  on  our  part. 

AN  OBLIGATION  UPON  ALL 

So  let  us  now,  brethren  and  sisters,  from  this  time  forth  observe 
the  fast  and  the  offerings.  I  realize  (that  in  many  of  the  wards  and 
stakes  there  are  but  very  few  who  are  in  need  of  help.  In  fact,  a  bulletin 
issued  from  the  Presiding  Bishop's  office  on  the  30th  of  June,  this  year, 
gives  the  information  that  seventy-five  of  the  one  hundred  and  four 
stakes  are  maintaining  their  poor  from  the  offerings.  That  is  very  com- 
mendable, but  in  many  of  those  stakes  -it  requires  but  little  to  do  this. 

Instructions  have  gone  out  from  the  Presiding  Bishop's  office 
endorsed  by  the  First  Presidency,  asking  the  bishops  in  wards  where  the 
offerings  are  not  needed  for  the  poor,  jto  forward  those  offerings  to  the 
Presiding  Bishop's  office.  I  suppose  that  in  many  of  the  wards  where 
there  are  very  few  if  any  poor,  the  people  have  ifelt  that  they  did  not 
need  to  give  their  offerings,  perhaps  they  have  not  understood  the  plan, 
that  a  surplus  of  the  ward  offerings  should  be  sent  to  the  Presiding 
Bishop's  office  for  distribution  among  those  members  of  the  Church 
who  are  in  need.  I  am  disposed  not  to  find  fault  with  the  people  on 
that  account.  Perhaps  the  bishops  have  not  realized  the  full  significance 
of  this  advice  and  have  not  stressed  ^mong  their  people  the  importance 
of  paying  their  offerings.  The  bishops  ought  to  be  more  persistent  in 
teaching  the  people,  and  the  people  more  particular  in  observing  this 
instruction. 

The  Presiding  Bishopric  and  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  have 
instructed  bishops  that  where  the  offerings  are  not  sufficient  to  take 
care  of  the  poor  they  are  at  liberty  to  make  requisition  upon  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  for  the  privilege  of  using  a  part  of  the  tithing  for 
this  purpose.  It  will  no  doubt  surprise  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  when 
I  tell  you  that  last  year,  according  to  their  reports,  $224,556.38  was 
drawn  from  the  tithes  of  the  Church  for  charity  purposes.  Is  it 
important  then  that  we  observe  our  fast  and  our  offerings,  which  would 
have  obviated  any  calling  upon  the  tithing  fund  for  help  ? 

IN  REGARD  TO  TITHING 

It  was  reported  here  by  President  Ivins  yesterday  that  the  Church 
is  out  !of  debt.  That  doesn't  mean  that  there  is  no  emergency  and  that 
we  can  let  up  on  the  payment  of  our  tithes,  brethren  and  sisters.  The 
tithes  are  dropping  off  because  of  general  adverse  financial  conditions 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


49 


and  the  poverty  of  [the  people.  We  do  not  ask  those  who  have  been 
and  are  full  tithepayers,  to  pay  more  than  a  tenth  of  their  interest  and 
income.  When  they  have  done  that  they  have  done  their  full  duty,  so 
far  as  the  tithing  is  concerned.  But  we  do  ask  them  to  continue  to  pay 
their  tithing  as  heretofore ;  and  those  who  have  only  paid  part  tithing, 
to  pay  their  tithing  in  full ;  and  those  who  have  paid  no  tithing  at  all, 
to  repent  and  pay  their  tithes  to  the  Lord.  If  we  .obtain  an  exaltation 
in  the  kingdom  of  God  we  must  observe  and  keep  all  the  laws  of  God, 
and  that  includes  ithe  law  of  the  tithe. 

DOERS  OF  THE  WORD 

There  are  too  many  of  us,  I  fear,  who  are  of  the  class  that  the 
Apostle  James  had  in  mind  when  he  said : 

"But  be  ye  doers  of  the  word,  and  not  hearers  only,  deceiving  your  own 
selves." 

I  feel,  (brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  as  a  people  have  need  of  being 
impressed  with  the  necessity  of  doing  as  well  as  we  know,  perhaps  more 
than  of  being  taught  what  we  ought  to  do.  We  are  a  well-taught  people 
and  fas  a  rule  if  we  would  do  as  well  as  we  know  all  would  be  well  with 
Zion. 

This  is  a  great  and  glorious  work.  ,  The  Lord  said  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph :  "I  am  about  to  Ibring  forth  a  great  and  a  marvelous  work." 
It  is  great.  It  is  marvelous.  It  is  a  wonder.  And  yet,  brethren  and 
sisters,  it  would  be  very  much  more  marvelous  and  very  jmuch  more 
wonderful  if  we  were  living  according  to  the  standards  of  the  Church 
and  of  the  Gospel,  and  the  teachings  rthat  are  given  us  by  the  leaders  of 
this  Church.  .  In  doing  this  we  would  glorify  the  names  of  our  Father 
and  his  Son,  our  Redeemer. 

There  is,  then,  much  that  we  can  do  to  help  to  alleviate  the  distress 
and  suffering  that  are  among  the  people  today.  God  has  graciously 
made  provision  in  his  Church  for  every  condition  that  might  arise. 
It  is  for  us  to  carry  out  his  purposes  according  to  his  jplanning;  then 
would  the  wisdom  of  the  wise  men  perish,  and  the  understanding  of 
their  prudent  men  be  hid,  [in  the  light  of  the  accomplishment  of  this, 
God's  work. 

May  he  help  us  to  do  our  part  faithfully  and  well,  t  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

DR.  FRANKLIN  S.  HARRIS 

President  of  Brigham  Young  University 

I  do  not  think  it  would  be  possible  for  anyone  to  be  more  surprised 
than  I  am  this  morning  upon  being  called  to  address  you.  I  have 
enjoyed  very  much  the  meetings  of  this  conference;  I  always  enjoy 
these  meetings.  For,  something  like  twenty-nine  years,  the  period 
that  I  have  been  accessible  to  the  conferences  of  the  Church,  I  have 
never  missed  one  if  I  have  been  in  the  state,  and  it  seems  to  me  that 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


each  of  these  conferences  has  its  own  peculiarities,  its  own  type  of 
advice,  counsel  and  admonition.  I  should  not  like  to  be  without  the 
inspiration  that  comes  to  me  by  attending  these  meetings. 

In  these  days,  when  everything  of  the  past  is  being  brought  up 
for  review,  our  religious  activities,  our  Church,  and  everything  else, 
come  in  for  consideration.  Recently  in  the  East,  I  read  something 
that  had  been  written  by  some  minister  in  which  he  said  that  the  old 
people  of  the  Church  were  incurably  "Mormon,"  but  that  the  young 
people  showed  some  hope  of  being  alienated  in  their  affections  'for 
the  Church,  and  that  there  was  hope  that  in  time  these  young  people 
would  withdraw  and  become  Christians.  This  set  me  to  thinking,  and 
since  it  is  my  work  to  be  with  the  young  people  of  the  Church  I  believe 
I  am  prepared  to  speak  on  this  subject  with  some  authority.  At  the 
University  I  come  daily  in  contact  with  about  fifteen  hundred  of 
them  from  all  parts  of  the  Church.  It  is  also  my  privilege  [to  travel 
throughout  the  Church  and  meet  young  people. 

I  am  prepared  to  refute,  in  the  most  emphatic  terms,  any  allegation 
that  the  young  people  of  the  Church  are  not  loyal  to  it,  to  its  authorities, 
and  to  its  teachings.  Of  course  there  are  not  one  hundred  per  cent  of 
the  young  people  who  continue  to  adhere  to  the  Church.  There  are  not 
i  one  hundred  per  cent  of  Americans  who  continue  to  be  loyal  to  the 
government  of  the  United  States.  There  is  no  cause  that  has  one 
hundred  per  cent  support.  But  it  is  my  firm  conviction  that  there  has 
never  been  a  time,  in  the  history  of  the  Church,  when  the  young  people 
were  so  firmly  rooted  in  the  fundamental  principles  of  the  Gospel  as 
today. 

Almost  daily  young  people  come  to  my  office  and  tell  me  of  their 
devotion  to  the  Church,  of  their  growing  conviction  of  the  truth  of  its 
doctrines,  of  their  determination  to  spend  their  lives  in  its  service  and 
in  advocating  the  doctrines  for  which  the  Church  stands.  There  are 
those,  of  course,  who  have  their  periods  of  doubt,  and  I  do  not  blame 
them  for  their  doubts,  because  after  all  the  knowledge  of  another 
person  cannot  save  an  individual.  It  is  necessary  for  a  person  to  think 
the  thing  out  for  himself.  He  must  have  doubts  and  misgivings  in 
order  that  those  doubts  and  misgivings  may  be  overcome  and  that  he 
may  get  a  philosophy  of  his  own.  Consequently  I  never  worry  if  a 
young  man  or  young  woman  expresses  some  doubt  and  wants  to  think 
the  thing  out  for  himself.  I  know  that  this  type  of  real  thinking  is  a 
thing  that  will  eventually  bring  them  back  to  a  loyalty  to  the  Church 
and  an  understanding  of  its  principles. 

The  thing  that  I  do  object  to  is  the  lack  of  interest.  This  it  seems 
to  me  is  the  most  dangerous  thing  we  can  have,  and  if  I  see  a  person, 
particularly  a  young  person,  who  says  he  has  no  interest  in  religion, 
then  I  have  misgivings. 

I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  to  you  that  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
contains  those  principles  that  are  satisfying  to.  any  thinking  man  or 
woman.  I  have  no  apology  to  offer  for  it.  I  believe  that  some  of  our 
people  make  a  mistake  by  being  somewhat  apologetic  for  the  Church, 


DR.  FRANKLIN  S.  HARRIS 


51 


for  its  history,  or  its  doctrines ;  but  as  far  as  I  am  concerned,  I  have 
no  apologies  whatever  to  offer  for  it. 

It  has  been  my  privilege  to  see,  more  than  most  men,  the  peoples 
of  the  world,  to  study  their  philosophies,  to  observe  their  systems  in 
practical  operation  and  to  know  the  hearts  of  the  people ;  and  the 
more  I  study  the  rest  of  the  world  the  more  I  love  Mormonism.  Not 
that  I  have  anything  against  any  people;  I  know  of  no  people  with 
whom  I  have  come  in  contact  for  whom  I  do  not  have  honor  and  whose 
point  of  view  I  do  not  respect;  but  knowing  these  other  conditions  I 
have  greater  love  for  Mormonism,  for  its  leadership,  for  its  doctrines, 
for  its  institutions,  for  what  it  can  do  for  man  here  and  hereafter. 

So  when  I  come  in  contact  with  the  young  people  I  tell  them  to  go 
about  in  their  excursions  seeking  for  truth.  I  say:  Look  it  all  over; 
investigate  it  all ;  because  I  am  not  at  all  afraid  of  the  results.  I  hope 
that  we,  as  a  people,  do  seek  everywhere  for  truth.  W!e  have  no 
monopoly  on  the  truth.  Theoretically  we  take  it  all  from  whatever 
source  it  comes.  Other  people  have  truth,  and  I  believe  that  we  should 
seek  it  far  and  wide,  and  adopt  it  wherever  we  find  it. 

I  bear  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  young 
people  of  the  Church  are  entirely  worthy  of  the  confidence  of  their 
parents.  I  think  they  are  the  best  young  people  the  Church  has  ever 
had  at  any  time,  notwithstanding  there  are  differences  of  opinion  on  this 
point.  I  believe  the  young  people  are  the  most  temperate,  the  most 
moral,  the  most  intellectual  that  the  young  people  have  ever  been  at 
any  time  in  the  history  of  the  Church.  I  bear  testimony  to  you  that 
with  the  passing  of  each  generation  we  shall  have  more  loyalty  to  the 
Church,  we  shall  have  more  consolidation  and  a  stronger  Church. 

I  fervently  pray  that  I  may  be  worthy  to  be  among  the  humble 
workers  of  the  Church,  that  I  may  be  able  to  set  a  proper  example, 
and  that  I  may  assist  in  advancing  this  great  cause.  I  ask  this  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Elder  Herbert  R.  Bluke,  assisted  by  the  congregation,  sang  the 
hymn,  "Galilee." 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN- 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

LAWLESSNESS,  DISRESPECT  FOR  LAW  AND  ANARCHY 

Wlhile  many  of  you  may  know  that  all  my  life  I  have  been  a 
Prohibitionist,  that  I  stand  firmly  for  the  18th  Amendment,  for  its 
retention  in  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  and  for  the  Volstead 
Act  and  for  its  enforcement,  and  while  I  have  made  a  public  announce- 
ment that  if  in  our  two  great  National  parties  men  cannot  be  found 
for  office  who  live  in  accordance  with  the  laws  of  our  country  and 
who  are  in  favor  of  having  our  laws  enforced,  I  stand  ready  to  join  a 
third  or  fourth  or  any  other  party  that  favors  enforcement,  nevertheless, 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  feel  as  if  it  would  be  unwise  and  perhaps  improper  for  me  in  the  heat 
of  the  present  great  National  campaign  to  make  an  extended  argument 
in  favor  of  Prohibition  or  the  18th  Amendment  since  on  these  subjects 
honest,  law-abiding,  high-minded  citizens  have  such  greatly  diversified 
views. 

NOT  GOOD  FOR  MAN 

Speaking  as  I  am  to  this  great  conference  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
however,  I  cannot  resist  the  temptation  to  quote  these  few  words  from 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

"Behold,  verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  you  *  *  *  I  have  warned  you, 
and  forewarn  you,  by  giving  unto  you  this  word  of  wisdom,"  a  portion  of  which 
reads,  "Strong  drinks  *  *  *  are  not  good  for  man."  (Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
Section  89.) 

ALCOHOL  A  NARCOTIC 

Nor  can  I  resist  the  temptation  to  add  that  the  18th  Amendment 
came  and  in  my  opinion  it  and  Prohibition  also  will  finally  prevail, 
because  in  this  scientific  age  it  has  been  demonstrated  that  alcohol  is 
not  a  desirable  food  nor  is  it  in  any  sense  a  stimulant,  as  was  formerly 
believed.  Science  tells  us  it  is  a  poison,  it  is  a  narcotic.  It  compels 
human  nerves  to  tell  falsehoods.  It  makes  men  think  they  are  doing- 
more  work  when  scientific  measures  show  that  they  are  actually  doing 
less.  It  makes  the  poor  man  think  he  is  rich,  it  makes  the  sick  man  think 
he  is  well.  When  the  masses  of  the  people  are  so  educated  that  they 
know  and  understand  the  truth  about  alcohol  as  they  now  know  that 
the  earth  is  round  and  that  vaccination  is  effective,  then  alcohol  should 
be  and  I  expect  it  will  be  avoided  and  will  be  prohibited  with  the  same 
vigor  and  unanimity  that  the  use  of  morphine  is  prohibited.  The  wise, 
the  good,  the  ambitious,  the  educated  people  of  the  world  will  be  too 
much  interested  in  efficiency  to  have  their  own  and  their  children's 
chances  of  success  reduced  by  the  use  of  this  poison,  this  narcotic — 
alcohol. 

LOYALTY  TO  .EIGHTEENTH  AMENDMENT 

If  I  were  making  an  appeal  to  you  on  this  occasion  in  the  interest 
of  Prohibition  and  the  18th  Amendment  I  would  draw  your  attention  to 
the  resolution  passed  last  June  by  the  Mutual  Improvement  workers  of 
the  Church,  when,  in  their  annual  convention  10,000  strong  and  repre- 
senting 125,000  workers,  they  declared  their  loyalty  to  the  18th  Amend- 
ment and  to  our  Prohibition  laws ;  also  pledged  their  support  to  officers 
and  candidates  for  office  who  respect  these  laws,  who  live  in  accordance 
with  them  and  who  strive  for  their  enforcement.  I  would  draw  atten- 
tion too  to  the  statement  on  this  subject  by  the  General  Boards  of  the 
Mutuals  as  it  appeared  in  the  September  Era.    It  says : 

GIVING  UP  FOOD  AND  CLOTHING  FOR  DRINK 

"The  M.  I.  A.  has  always  stood  and  will  continue  to  stand  for  the  non-use  of 
liquor.    We  believe  and  teach  that  it  is  not  good  for  man.    Alcohol  strikes  at 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


53 


the  very  foundation  of  human  progress.  The  M.  I.  A.  helped  to  secure  Prohi- 
bition and  regards  it  as  the  most  successful  means  yet  tried  or  devised  by  this 
or  any  other  nation  for  dealing  with  the  liquor  traffic.  Laws  are  rarely  one 
hundred  per  cent  successful.  Since  the  observance  and  enforcement  of  this 
legislation  would  mean  that  the  laborers  of  our  country  would  buy  food, 
clothing,  shelter  and  education  for  their  families  with  the  money  that  might 
otherwise  be  spent  for  drink,  the  M.  I.  A.  stands  strongly  against  repeal  and 
strongly  for  the  enforcement  of  our  liquor  laws.  The  ground  already  gained, 
which  has  cost  so  much  in  time,  effort  and  money  ought  not  to  be  lost,  it  ought 
not  to  be  surrendered.  Liquor  has  always  been  and  it  will  continue  forever  to 
be  the  intimate  ally  of  crime.  Fighting  the  one  is  the  surest  way  of  decreasing 
the  other.  Let  us  struggle  on  and  on  and  on.  Since  this  enemy  of  the  happiness, 
prosperity  and  success  of  mankind  can  never  be  completely  eliminated,  good 
citizens  will  always  have  it  to  fight." — General  Boards  Young  Men's  and  Young 
Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Associations. 

"we  are  at  war  !" 

But  the  subject  upon  which  I  desire  to  speak  is  lawlessness,  dis- 
respect for  law  and  anarchy. 

The  condition  of  our  country  with  respect  to  lawlessness  and 
anarchy  is  such  that  John  J.  Pershing  says,  "We  are  at  war !"  that  the 
conditions  confronting  the  United  States  today  are  more  serious  than 
those  we  faced  in  France.    (American  Magazine,  June,  1932,  p.  15.) 

THE  LAW  BREAKER  OF  TODAY 

The  law  breaker  of  twenty  years  ago  was  a  cringing,  shabby, 
repulsive  creature  who  shyly  attempted  to  hide  himself  in  alley  ways 
and  other  dark  places.  But  conditions  have  changed.  The  law  breaker 
of  today  is  wearing  fine  clothes,  flashy  jewelry,  he  owns  and  drives 
high-powered  speed  boats  and  high-powered  motor  cars ;  his  pockets  are 
bulging  with  money.  These  are  the  racketeers,  the  gangsters,  the  boot- 
leggers and  kidnapers,  who,  equipped  even  with  machine  guns,  have 
such  power,  influence  and  financial  strength  that  they  are  actually 
threatening  the  very  life  of  our  government ;  they  are  undermining  the 
foundation  of  our  republic.  Surely  the  citizens  of  the  nation  should 
be  alarmed,  they  should  be  aroused  when  the  very  existence  of  our 
government  is  in  peril. 

THE  DRINKER  IS  RESPONSIBLE 

There  are  those  who  assert  that  Prohibition  is  responsible  for  this 
alarming  condition.  I  deny  it.  It  is  not  the  law  nor  is  it  the  bootlegger, 
but  it  is  the  buyer  of  liquor,  the  purchaser  of  drink,  it's  the  one  who 
furnishes  the  money  that  is  responsible.  Without  the  buyer,  without 
the  purchaser  of  alcoholic  liquor,  there  would  be  no  bootlegger,  there 
would  be  no  drinking,  there  would  be  no  drunkenness. 

GUILTY  PUBLIC  OFFICIALS 

If  we  have  weak,  dishonest  or  criminally  guilty  public  officials, 
perhaps  the  blame  should  be  placed  at  their  door. 

The  statement  has  been  made  and  it  has  been  broadly  circulated  that 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  people  of  Utah  actually  elected  and  sent  into  our  state  legislature 
men  who  were  and  are  themselves  law  breakers.  You  all  know  of 
course  that  the  Prohibition  law  in  Utah  is  a  rigid  one.  In  our  state 
he  who  has  liquor  in  his  home  or  even  in  his  hand  or  otherwise  in  his 
possession  is  a  law  breaker.  Do  you,  do  I,  do  we  all  realize  the  serious- 
ness of  selecting  and  electing  as  our  legislators  those  who  themselves 
are  breakers  of  this  or  any  other  law? 

BUYING  VOTES  WITH  LIQUOR 

Can  you  imagine  the  people  of  Utah  sending  to  the  legislature  men 
whose  votes  could  be  bought  with  a  flask  of  liquor?  I  appeal  to  you 
with  all  the  earnestness  that  I  possess  not  to  elect  any  of  this  sort  to 
the  legislature  of  the  state  of  Utah  or  any  other  state  on  the  8th  day  of 
November  next. 

What  a  reflection  upon  the  state  of  Utah  to  have  a  lobbyist  drop 
and  break  a  bottle  of  booze  on  the  floor  of  our  legislative  halls  !  Imagine, 
if  you  can,  how  many  of  the  votes  cast  by  our  legislators,  by  those  whom 
you  and  I  elected,  were  bought  and  paid  for  with  illegal  and 
unlawful  liquor. 

FUNCTIONS  WHERE  LAW  IS  BROKEN 

For  many  years  I  have  sent  a  personal  questionnaire  to  those  for 
whom  I  have  had  opportunity  to  vote  asking  candidates  for  public 
office  to  advise  me  confidentially  or  otherwise  whether  or  not  they  live 
in  accordance  with  the  law,  whether  they  favor  the  enforcement  of 
the  law,  and  in  addition  I  have  urged  them  if  elected  to  join  me  in  a 
resolution  not  to  participate  in  any  function,  social  or  otherwise,  where 
the  law  is  broken. 

VOTE  ONLY  FOR  THOSE  WHO  RESPECT  THE  LAW 

I  appeal  to  you  in  this  serious  hour,  when  "we  are  at  war,"  when 
the  conditions  confronting  us  are  more  serious  than  those  we  faced  in 
France,  to  cast  your  ballots  for  those  candidates  only  who  are  law 
abiding,  who  have  real  respect  for  the  law  and  who  want  it  enforced. 
If  the  people  of  the  country  generally  will  vote  for  law  breakers,  if  they 
will  elect  such  men  to  public  office,  then  with  certainty  will  government 
of  the  people,  by  the  people  and  for  the  people  vanish  from  the  earth. 

REFLECTION  ON  STATE 

How  serious  is  it  to  be  an  intentional,  a  premeditated,  a  flagrant 
and  defiant  breaker  of  any  law?  While  for  the  average  citizen  to  be 
such  a  law  breaker  is  serious,  for  a  legislator  of  the  state  of  Utah  to 
be  thus  guilty  is  unpardonable,  it  is  a  serious  reflection  upon  the  good 
name  of  the  voters  of  this  state. 

GOD  HAVE  MERCY  ON  US 

What  strength,  what  value  will  there  be  in  any  law,  even  in  that 
law  which  protects  us  in  our  property  rights,  if  we  degenerate  to  such 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


55 


a  degree  that  the  law  breaker  has  to  be  arrested  by  a  man  who  is  equally 
guilty  of  breaking  the  law ;  that  when  he  who  is  guilty  is  brought  before 
the  bar,  that  bar  which  is  supposed  to  be  a  bar  of  justice,  he  has  as  his 
prosecutor  a  district,  a  city  or  a  county  attorney  who  is  himself  as 
guilty  as  the  one  he  is  to  prosecute?  What  an  unfortunate  condition 
will  prevail  if  we  reach  such  a  situation  that  the  individuals  who  consti- 
tute the  jury  are  as  guilty  of  law  breaking  as  is  the  man  whose  guilt 
they  are  expected  to  discover.  And  then  finally,  if  in  addition  to.  all  of 
this,  the  judge  or  the  justice  who  occupies  the  exalted  place  upon  the 
bench  does  not  himself  have  respect  enough  for  the  law  to  live  in 
accordance  with  its  provisions,  God  have  mercy  on  us,  for  when  this 
condition  prevails  government  of  the  people,  referred  to  by  Abraham 
Lincoln,  will  surely  be  perishing  from  the  earth. 

STAND  FOR  AMERICA 

I  appeal  to  you  now,  during  this  heated  political  contest,  regardless 
of  party,  partisanship  or  politics  to  stand  for  America ;  to  stand  for  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States ;  to  cast  your  vote  only  for  those 
who  have  the  character,  the  manhood,  the  stamina  to  live  the  law ; 
vote  only  for  those  who  when  they  take  that  sacred,  that  solemn  oath 
of  office  which  says  that  they  will  support,  obey  and  defend  the  Consti- 
tution of  the  United  States  will  have  the  honor,  the  integrity,  and  enough 
of  the  genuine  spirit  of  America  to  live  in  accordance  with  that  pledge. 
I  appeal  to  you  to  vote  only  for  those  who  really  live  in  accordance  with 
our  laws  and  who,  if  elected,  will  do  their  best  to  have  the  law  enforced. 

BY  THE  BLOOD  OF  THE  REVOLUTION 

Brethren  and  sisters,  citizens  of  America,  I  ask  you  to  imagine 
yourselves  standing  by  the  Lincoln  monument  in  Springfield,  Illinois ; 
I  ask  you  to  imagine  again  that  your  feet  are  on  the  sacred  soil  where 
stands  that  glorious  American  shrine,  the  Lincoln  Memorial;  and 
imagine  again  that  you  are  looking  into  the  face  of  him  who  has  been 
called  our  greatest  American — Abraham  Lincoln — and  then  listen  to 
these,  his  words: 

"Let  every  American  swear  by  the  blood  of  the  Revolution  never  to  violate 
in  the  least  particular  the  laws  of  the  country,  and  never  to  tolerate  their 
violation  by  others."  *  *  *  "Bad  laws,"  said  he,  "if  they  exist,  should  be 
repealed  as  soon  as  possible;  still,  while  they  continue  in  force,  they  should 
lie  religiously  observed." 

"help  me,  o  father!" 

That  wise  philosopher,  that  great  American,  Benjamin  Franklin, 
offered  this  appealing  prayer: 

"That  I  may  be  loyal  to  my  prince  and  faithful  to  my  country,  careful  for 
its  good,  valiant  in  its  defense  and  obedient  to  its  laws,  help  me,  O  Father!" 

SUSTAINING  THE  LAW 

"We  [members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints]  believe 
*  *  *  in  obeying,  honoring,  and  sustaining  the  law."    (12th  Article  of  Faith.) 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Listen  to  the  words  recently  sent  forth  by  the  First  Presidency  of 
the  Church  and  the  Council  of  the  Twelve: 

"*  *  *  We  do  not  hesitate  to  give  the  emphatic  counsel  that  it  is  the 
unqualified  duty  of  every  citizen  *  *  *  loyally  to  support  the  18th  Amendment 
and  the  laws  of  Congress  in  relation  thereto."— Improvement  Era,  Sept.,  1932. 

I  STAND  WITH  LEADERS 

I  -stand  with  Lincoln  and  Franklin,  with  the  Church  and  with  the 
General  Authorities  for  the  enforcement  of  the  law.  I  appeal  to  you 
and  to  all  the  people  of  the  nation  to  come  to  the  support  of  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States,  I  appeal  to  you  to  stand  with  me 
when  I  say,  "God  helping  me,  I  will  not  knowingly  cast  my  vote  for 
any  candidate  for  any  office  unless  I  have  reasonable  assurance  that  he 
lives  in  accordance  with  the  law,  that  if  elected  he  will  live  in  accordance 
with  the  sacred  oath  of  office  he  will  be  required  to  take,  and  that  he  will 
do  his  best  to  see  that  all  our  laws  are  respected  and  that  the  people 
live  in  accordance  with  them." 

HIGH-CLASS  CITIZENSHIP 

If  ever  the  United  States  of  America  needed,  if  ever  our  country's 
conditions  demanded,  high-class  citizenship,  it  is  now,  in  this  year  of 
our  Lord,  one  thousand  nine  hundred  and  thirty-two.  I  trust,  I  pray  this 
need,  this  demand  of  the  country  for  loyalty,  for  statesmanship,  and 
for  devotion  to  law  and  order  will  not  be  in  vain. 

YOUTH  SPEAKS 

This  is  an  age,  or  perhaps  it  would  be  more  accurate  to  say,  this  is 
the  age  of  young  men  and  young  women.  This  is  a  time  in  which 
"Youth  Speaks."  If  you  desire  to  feel  the  pulse,  if  you  desire  to  know 
the  heart  throbs  of  at  least  one  of  the  young  people  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  read  in  the  Era,  the  organ  of  our 
young  peoples'  Improvement  Association,  for  the  month  of  October,  an 
article  written  by  George  Albert  Smith,  Jr.  Here  is  one  of  our  Mutual 
Improvement  workers  who  is  but  a  boy  fresh  from  college.  I  mention 
him  as  typical  of  the  youth  of  the  Church.  As  I  speak  he  is  on  his 
way  to  Harvard  to  do  work  as  a  graduate  student.  He  writes  upon 
the  subject,  "Are  You  a  Wet  Dry  or  a  Dry  Dry?" 

DETERMINED  YOUNG  MANHOOD 

In  every  sentence  you  will  feel  the  strength,  the  determination  of 
his  strong,  youthful  character,  his  noble  manhood.  ■  You  will  feel  the 
deep  and  determined  resolution  which  throbs  in  his  breast.  Like  this 
excellent  young  man  the  great  majority  of  the  young  people  of  the 
Church  are  struggling  to  live  in  accordance  with  the  highest  Christian 
ideals,  to  follow  in  the  footsteps  and  to  follow  the  example  of  those 
pioneers,  great  and  glorious,  who  laid  so  well  the  foundations  of  this 
marvelous  intermountain  commonwealth.    You  will  find  in  the  hearts 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


57 


of  the  young  folks  of  the  Church  an  ambition  so  to  live  today  that  they 
may  be  worthy  of  their  noble  pioneer  ancestors  of  yesterday. 

FAITH  IN  ALMIGHTY  GtOD 

In  this  serious  crisis  when  "we  are  at  war,"  when  the  conditions 
we  are  facing  are  more  serious  than  those  we  faced  in  France,  .let  us 
have  faith  in  Almighty  God  as  did  Washington  when  he  went  upon 
his  knees  at  Valley  Forge.  With  that  faith  which  makes  nothing  im- 
possible, let  us  sing :  "Then  conquer  we  must,  when  our  cause  it  is  just, 
And  this  be  our  motto  :  'In  God  is  our  trust !'  "  And  again,  let  us  sing 
on,  "Our  fathers'  (God,  to  Thee,  Author  of  liberty,  to  Thee  we  sing; 
Long  may  our  land  be  bright  With  freedom's  holy  light;  Protect  us  by 
Thy  might,  Great  God,  our  King." 

May  that  God,  our  King,  in  whom  we  trust  as  did  our  fathers, 
not  forsake  us,  not  forsake  our  Church,  or  our  beloved  country,  I  humbly 
pray. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  'First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  wish  that  I  might  bring  to  your  minds  on  this  day  the  divine  truth 
that  Christ  our  Lord  is  the  most  pure  source  of  strength  and  comfort 
and  peace  that  you  can  have.  Many  of  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
are  passing  through  very  sore  trials.  These  days  |are  humbling  isome 
of  us  to  the  very  |dust,  for  disappointments  have  come,  and  the  daily 
lives  of  piany  of  us  |are  filled  with  bitterness  and  sorrow.  These  are 
days  of  depression  and  ofttimes  tragedy.  It  iseems  that  the  world  has 
gone  far  afield  from  its  true  end.  We  are  (conscious  of  a  discord,  not 
in  the  Creator's  plan :  A  discord  brought  about  by  the  faltering,  weak, 
blundering  of  all  men.  Living  in  the  World  O'f  material  things,  and 
able  by  the  gift  of  free-will  to  work  out  our  destiny,  we  have  by  that 
free-will  gone  far  astray.  We  were  rnade  in  (the  image  of  God  ;  we  were 
made  a  little  less  than  the  iangels.  <  Yet  strange  is  it  not  that  the  great 
gift  which  the  Creator  has  bestowed  upon  jhis  children  should  be  the 
means  whereby  we  should  miss  our  destiny. 

We  have  become  (children  of  fear.  We  are  afraid  to  live,  for  we 
have  grown  sick  of  our  failures  and  frailties.  This  America  pf  ours 
has  gone  mad  with  luxury,  with  indulgences,  and  bodily  comfort,  with  an 
overwhelming  external  hurry  and  a  tumult  of  distraction.  We  have 
become  an  unchecked,  self-exultant  people.  The  children  of  God  have 
forgotten  God.  This  is  our  trouble.  The  passion  for  rebellion,  for 
destruction  is  mixed  up  with  the  eager  longing  to  make  Sthe  world  over. 
True,  our  churches  are  filled,  but  it  is  rather  for  social  than  religious 
purposes.  I  wonder  how  many  pf  us  feel  that  the  priest  or  minister  of 
God  is  given  the  keys  of  heaven  with  the  power  to  bind  and  to  loose. 
I  sometimes  even  wonder  how  many  of  uA — and  ll  am  speaking  of  all 
mankind — really  know  the  love  of  a  true  and  living  God. 

When  God  placed  man  in  the  Garden /of  !Eden,  and  man  was  shown 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


his  destiny,  the  Creator  planted  within  his  soul  (the  power  to  look  up 
and  to  find  his  |Maker  through  the  power  of  faith.  This  gave  man  a 
splendor  pf  spirit,  which  is  the  greatest  power  of  all;  because  only  by 
the  spirit  can  absolute  truth  be  known.  This  gift  of  faith  places  man 
in  an  enviable  position  for  the  exercise  of  his  (mental  powers.  Through- 
out all  the  ages,  man  lhas  felt  the  still  (small  voice  of  the  Almighty  in  his 
daily  life.  Our  Jives  must  needs  be  deeply  penetrated  with  ,a  'sense  of 
the  infinite  God ;  and  this  infinite,  true,  and  living  God  can  only  be  known 
by  our  approach  to  him  in  the  humility  of  our  powers. .  We  must  again 
learn  to  .worship  and  (to  glorify. 

The  truth  of  all  the  (gifts  of  God  to  man  can  be  known  only  as  we 
have  faith  in  God,  fthe  Father.  Throughout  the  [history  of  Jthe  race, 
heaven  has  been  ibreaking  in  'from  time  to  time  upon  the  affairs  of  men, 
and  who  knows  but  jwhat  we  are  nearer  the  center  of  spiritual  reality 
and  life,  than  we  (have  dreamed  of. 

Two  thousand  years  ago,  the  greatest  event  in  the  history  of  man- 
kind happened.  I  refer  to  the  birth  of  Christ,  our  Redeemer.  I  want 
to  read  you  the  (story  as  ,it  was  written  by  St.  Luke,  the  evangelist. 
It  is  truly  a  piece  of  literary  art. 

"And,  it  came  to  pass  in  those  days,  that  there  went  out  a  decree  from 
Caesar  Augustus,  that  all  the  world  should  be  taxed.  *  *  * 

"And  all  went  to  be  taxed,  every  one  into  his  own  city. 

"And  Joseph  also  went  up  from  iGalilee,  out  of  the  city  of  Nazareth,  into 
Judea,  unto  the  city  of  David,  "which  is  called  Bethlehem;  (because  he  was  of 
the  house  and  lineage  of  David:) 

"To  be  taxed  with  Mary  his  espoused  wife,  being  (great  with  child. 

"And  so  it  was,  that  while  they  were  (there,  the  days  were  accomplished  that 
she  should  be  delivered. 

"And  she  brought  forth  her  firstborn  son,  (and  wrapped  him  in  swaddling 
clothes,  and  laid  him  in  a  manger ;  because  there  was  no  room  for  them  in  the  inn. 

"And  there  were  in  the  same  country  shepherds  abiding  in  the  field,  keeping 
watch  over  their  flock  toy  night. 

"And,  lo,  the  angel  of  the  Lord  came  upon  them,  and  the  glory  of  the  Lord 
shone  round  about  them :  and  they  (were  sore  afraid. 

"And  the  angel  said  unto  them,  Fear  not:  for,  behold,  I  bring  you  good 
tidings  pf  great  joy,  which  shall  be  to  all  people.  • 

"For  unto  you  is  born  this  day,  in  the  city  of  David,  a  Saviour,  which  is  Christ, 
the  Lord. 

"And  this  shall  be  a  sign  unto  jyou ;  Ye  shall  find  the  habe  wrapped  in 
swaddling  clothes,  lying  ,in  a  manger. 

"And  suddenly  there  was  with  the  angel  a  multitude  of  the  heavenly  host 
praising  God,  and  saying, 

"Glory  to  God  in  the  highest,  and  on  earth  peace,  good  will  toward  men." 

I  read  you  these  .words  of  the  noble  prophet  of  old,  because  they 
show  how  God's  love  gave  to  the  world  Him,  who  "is  the  way,  the  truth, 
and  the  life."  It  is  Ithe  message  that  our 'Father  is  guiding  us,  moulding 
us,  (helping  us,  saving  us.  In  these  days  of  Isore  trial,  Christ  our  Lord 
is  our  Guide  and  our  Savior.  This  is  the  (thing  that  jis  giving  us  a  glad 
confidence  that  all  things  are  working  together  for  good.  So  when 
the  darkness  comes,  let  us  remember  that  the  might  brings  out  the  stars 
as  sorrows  show  us  the  truth ;  and  the  insight  that  comes  through  pain 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


59 


and  disappointment  may  jbe  the  insight  into  Ithe  value  of  what  we  are. 
So  is  aiot  this  word  of  the  Lord  "Fear  not"  a  beautiful  message? 

We  think  God  has  forgotten  us,  but  he  is  still  watching  over  us 
each  and  every  one.  We  are  like  little  children  wandering  through  a 
forest.  '  The  [Constant  drudgery  of  enervating  work,  the  pressure  of 
present  sorrow  and  pain,  and  the  weight  of  (responsibility  too  heavy  to 
bear ;  all  these  things  distort  our  vision  (at  times,  and  behind  (all  these 
tragedies,  we  pee  fear  and  failure.  Fears  that  harass  our  courage  along 
the  pathway  of  life,  until  we  become  as  children,  lost  in  the  dark.  Who 
knows  but  what  our  trials  are  the  circumstances  that  may  make  us  find 
our  way  home  and  back  to  (God  ?  I  want  to  tell  you  a  story.  I  call  it 
"Night  and  Shadows." 

"Once  upon  a  time,  a  little  girl  wandered  (through  a  dense  forest  on  her  way 
home.  It  was  very  dark.  She  was  frightened  and  began  to  cry.  The  tears 
rolled  down  her  face,  as  she  timidly  crept  (along.  Suddenly  an  elf  appeared 
before  her.  'Are  you  frightened'  asked  the  elf.  'Yes,  I'm  scared,'  answered  the 
little  girl,  glad  to  show  her  fear,  ;'Ain't  you?' 

"  'Not  a  bit,'  answered  the  elf. 

"  'Well  then  you  don't  see  the  ghosts  and  (goblins  running  around  the  trees, 
and  the  funny  looking  eyes  up  there  in  the  (branches,  and  the  bats  and  ugly  things 
flying  through  the  air,  and  (the  scary  noises,  can't  you  hear  them?' 

"And  the  elf  said :  'I  don't  blame  you  for  being  scared,  I'd  be  scared  too 
if  I  saw  all  those  ugly  things.  You  ,see  that  when  little  girls  have  tears  in  their 
eyes,  they  can't  see  things  as  they  really  are.' 

"  'Just  let  [the  tears  dry  in  your  eyes,  and  then  we  shall  take  a  good  look 
at  these  ghosts  and  goblins,  and  (ugly  things.  See  those  terrible  eyes  in  the 
branches  of  the  trees?  Why  they  are  just  the  (stars  trying  ,to  light  up  your 
pathway  so  rthat  you  can  find  your  way  home ;  and  the  big  moon  is  trying  to 
help  them.  And  those  big  things  aren't  ghosts,  they  are  just  |the  shadows  of  the 
trees.  And  iwhat  you  thought  were  ugly  bats  and  ugly  things  are  just  the  leaves 
falling  on  your  pathway,  making  the  path  soft  ifor  your  (tired  feet.  ;  And  the 
noises.  Why,  that's  the  wind  blowing  through  the  branches,  and  the  trees  are 
trying  to  sing  a  song  to  make  you  happy  as  you  go  along'." 

Our  (trials  will  make  us  reach  out  into  a  truer  and  fuller  life.  We 
will  think  of  him  who  when  in  the  garden  jof  Gethsemane,  ielt  the 
solitude  of  human  life;  and  then  it  was  that  he  calmly  said:  "And 
yet  I  am  not  alone,  because  the  Father  is  with  me." 

One  time  in  Israel's  history,  the  prophet  Isaiah  exclaimed  : 
"Comfort  ye,  comfort  ye  my  people,  saith  your  God. 

"Speak  ye  comfortably  to  Jerusalem,  and  cry  unto  her,  that  her  warfare  is 
accomplished,  that  her  iniquity  is  pardoned :  for  she  hath  received  of  the  JLord's 
hand  double  for  all  her  .sins.  i 

"The  voice  lof  him  that  crieth  in  the  wilderness,  Prepare  ye  the  way  of 
the  Lord,  make  straight  in  the  desert  a  highway  !for  our  JGod. 

"Every  valley  shall  be  exalted,  and  every  mountain  and  hill  shall  toe  made 
low :  and  the  crooked  shall  be  made  straight,  and  the  rough  places  plain : 

"And  the  glory  of  the  Lord  shall  be  revealed,  and  all  flesh  shall  sec  it 
together:  for  the  mouth  of  the  Lord  (hath  spoken  'it." 

It  is  faith  in  God  that  gives  us  the  light,  and  with  faith  we  niay  know 
the  (truth  as  we  approach  our  Maker.  Faith  lis  the  source  of  knowledge, 
of  ,truth,  and  the  Gospel  of  our  Lord  can  only  be  known  through  faith. 
The  ancient  prophet  Moroni  wrote  in  his  closing  hours  these  words 
which  should  be  written  on  the  tablets  of  our  hearts  : 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"And  when  jye  shall  receive  these  things,  I  would  exjhort  you  that  ye  would 
ask  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ,  if  these  things  are  not  true; 
and  )if  ye  shall  ,ask  with  .a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent,  having  (faith  in  Christ, 
he  will  manifest  the  -truth  ,of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

"'And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ye  may  (know  the  truth  of  all  things." 

So  in  ithese  days  <of  sorrow,  of  trial,  of  discouragement  let  us  have 
faith ;  .the  faith  of  true  sons  of  God.  Then  I  believe  all  'will  be  well. 
"We  shall  live  by  [faith."  One  time  the  noted  .philosopher  Santayana 
of  Harvard  University  wrote : 

O  world,  thou  choosest  not  the  better  (part. 

It  is  not  wisdom  to  be  only  wise, 
And  on  the  inward  vision  close  the  eyes; 

But  it  is  wisdom  to  believe  the  heart. 
Columbus  found  a  world  and  had  no  ichart. 

Save  one  that  Faith  deciphered  in  the  skies ; 
To  trust  the  soul's  invincible  surmise 

Was  Jail  his  science  and  his  only  art. 
Our  knowledge  is  a  torch  of  smoky  pine 

That  lights  the  pathway  but  one  |step  ahead 
Across  a  void  of  mystery  land  dread. 

Bid  then  the  tender  light  of  faith  to  shine 
By  which  alone  the  mortal  heart  is  led 

Unto  the  thinking  of  the  thought  divine. 

It  is  religion,  the  love  of  God  and  neighbor,  which  gives  life  a 
meaning ;  knowledge  cannot  do  it. 

"Let  me,  if  you  please,  speak  of  my  own  experience,"  says  a  great  world 
scholar,  "as  one  who  for  thirty  years  has  taken  an  earnest  interest  in  these  things. 
Pure  knowledge  is  a  [glorious  thing,  pnd  woe  to  the  man  (who  holds  it  .light  or 
blunts  his  sense  for  it !  I  But  to  the  question,  Whence,  whither,  and  to  ,what  pur- 
pose ?  It  gives  an  answer  today  as  [little  as  'it  did  two  ,or  three  (thousand  years 
ago.  It  does,  indeed,  instruct  us  in  (facts ;  it  detects  inconsistencies ;  it  links 
phenomena ;  it  corrects  the  deceptions  of  sense  and  |idea.  But  where  and  how  the 
curve  of  the  world  and  the  curve  !of  our  own  life  begin — that  curve  )of  which 
it  shows  us  only  a  (section — and  whither  this  curve  (leads,  knowledge  does  not 
tell  MS.  But  if  with  ia  steady  will  ,we  affirm  the  forces  and  the  standards  which 
on  the  summits  of  our  [inner  life  shine  out  as  our  highest  jgood,  nay,  as  our  real 
self ;  if  we  lare  earnest  and  Courageous  enough  to  accept  'them  as  the  great 
reality  and  direct  our  lives  by  them ;  and  if  iwe  then  look  at  the  course  of 
mankind's  history,  /follow  its  upward  development,  and  search,  in  'strenuous  and 
patient  service,  for  the  communion  of  (minds  in  it,  we  ^hall  not  faint  in  weariness 
and  despair,  but  become  '.certain  of  God,  of  the  God  whom  Jesus  Christ  called 
his  Father,  and  who  lis  also  lour  Father." 

So  be  ye  comforted ;  God  lives,  and  he  is  extending  this  loving  hand 
to  us.   Will  we  respond  with  hearts  full  of  faith? 
May  the  Lord  our  'God  bless  us  all.  Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  H.  MOYLE 

President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  if  I  were  to  call  your  attention  to  that 
which  has  more  deeply  impressed  me  than  anything  else  pertinent  in  the 
world  today,  it  would  be  the  declaration  of  the  scriptures  that  "To 
know  Thee,  the  only  true  and  living  God  is  life  eternal."    That  knowl- 


ELDER  JAMES  H.  MOYLE 


61 


edge  is  the  first  great  need  of  the  world.  And  next,  the  declaration 
of  our  Savior  that  the  first  and  great  commandment  is  to  "Love  the 
Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all 
thy  mind.  *  *  *  And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy 
neighbor  as  thyself." 

But  what  has  very,  very  deeply  impressed  me  is  the  succeeding 
declaration,  that  "On  these  two  commandments  hang  all  the  law  and 
the  prophets." 

If  I  am  right  I  can  think  of  nothing  that  develops  more  the  fulfil- 
ment of  those  declarations  than  being  a  missionary.  The  testimony  of 
all  who  go  upon  missions  with  a  sincere  desire,  as  they  do,  to  serve  the 
Lord,  is  that  they  have  never  enjoyed  themselves  more  than  on  their 
missions.  In  such  service  there  is  a  spiritual  development  and  a  growth 
that  is  invaluable,  especially  to  the  young. 

I  am  pleased  to  say  that  in  the  Eastern  States  Mission  our  mission- 
aries enjoy,  at  the  present  time,  exceptional  health,  and  that  their  labors 
are  resulting  in  unusual  progress.  With  less  than  half  the  missionaries 
that  we  have  had  in  times  past  our  baptisms  are  almost  equal  in  number 
to  what  they  have  heretofore  been.  If  there  are  those  who  have 
resources  that  they  could  use,  without  too  great  sacrifice,  to  aid  those 
who  are  on  missions — some  of  whom  are  returning  because  of  lack  of 
finances — and  to  contribute  to  others  who  may  go  upon  missions — if  they 
fail  to  use  those  resources  they  are  missing  an  opportunity,  for  the 
money  will  do  double  the  service,  apparently,  that  it  has  heretofore  done. 

The  world  is  in  confusion.  One  preacher  says  that  it  is  standing 
on  its  head.  Great  philosophers  are  saying  that  the  civilization  of  this 
age  is  upon  the  precipice  of  destruction  and  that  unless  great  changes 
take  place  in  our  social  and  industrial  organizations  it  will  go  over  the 
precipice  and  into  destruction,  and  we  will  again  have  the  Dark  Ages. 
President  Butler  of  Columbia  University  has  made  this  declaration 
recently.  Mr.  H.  G.  Wells,  the  historian,  philosopher  and  scientist,  has 
made  the  same  declaration,  and  so  also  have  others. 

This  is  a  mechanical  age,  in  which  the  gifts  of  the  creative  power 
of  God,  as  has  been  declared  by  another  great  scientist,  so  far  exceed 
the  wisdsom  and  the  knowledge  and  the  power  of  man  to  utilize  them 
that  it  can  hardly  be  determined  whether  they  are  an  advantage  or  a 
disadvantage. 

It  is  my  belief  that  without  greater  love  of  God  and  of  fellow -men 
our  civilization  is  threatened.  We  are  our  brother's  keeper.  That  great 
law  which  has  governed  society  so  long,  the  survival  of  the  fittest,  does 
not  fit  in  with  the  age  in  which  we  live.  The  general  level  of  intelligence 
is  such  among  mankind  that  poverty  and  distress  in  the  midst  of 
abundance  and  superabundance  cannot  continue  to  exist  as  they  do. 
Hundreds  of  thousands,  I  believe  millions,  are  today,  in  this  land  of 
plenty  and  abundance,  suffering  from  undernourishment.  Honest  work- 
ers, men  who  are  sincere  in  their  desire  to  provide  for  themselves  and 
those  dependent  upon  them,  are  unable  to  obtain  the  necessities  of  life 
when  they  abound  so  greatly,  when  the  plea  is  now  being  made  that  we 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


should  not  produce  so  much.  What  is  the  result  of  this?  It  is  com- 
monly said  in  New  York  City  and  in  the  great  industrial  centers  of 
the  East,  that  men  who  have  been  receiving  salaries  of  five,  ten,  fifteen 
and  twenty  thousand  dollars,  are  now  beggars,  and  why  ?  It  is  because 
there  has  been  a  failure  to  know  God  and  to  obey  his  laws  and  to  love 
their  neighbors.    They  have  spent  that  which  they  have  received. 

Whatever  may  be  the  hope  of  return  of  prosperity,  of  improvement 
in  the  business  condition  of  the  world,  there  is  today  in  the  great  in- 
dustrial centers  of  the  East  an  increasing  number  of  those  who  are  de- 
pendent upon  charity  because  their  resources  are  being  exhausted. 

What  great  organization  in  the  world  is  doing  something  to  in- 
tensify and  increase  the  love  of  God,  the  knowledge  of  God,  the  real 
belief  in  an  actual  God  and  Father  and  Creator,  and  the  love  of  brother? 
I  have  said  unhesitatingly,  wherever  I  have  gone,  that  there  are  no 
people  who  are  developing  those  qualities  like  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
That  is  exhibited  in  the  declarations  that  we  have  heard  from  this  stand 
during  this  conference,  of  the  contributions  that  have  been  made  to 
charity  through  the  fast  fund  donation.  There  is  nothing  more  beautiful 
in  society,  in  any  of  the  organizations  of  the  world,  to  relieve  distress, 
than  is  found  in  that  thought. 

The  tithing,  the  missionary  system,  the  work  in  our  temples — all 
are  developing  a  love  of  fellow-men,  a  love  of  God  and  a  nearness  to 
him  such,  in  my  opinion,  as  can  be  found  among  no  other  people. 
Imperfect  as  we  may  be,  the  groundwork,  the  foundation  is  laid,  upon 
which  we  merely  need  to  build,  to  erect  a  social  structure  that  will  relieve 
poverty,  that  will  increase  the  happiness  of  man,  and  that  will  bring  us 
nearer  to  that  system  which  the  Savior  attempted  to  establish  and  did 
establish  when  he  was  upon  the  earth,  where  there  were  no  rich  and 
no  poor;  and  that  which  he  again  revealed  in  this  age  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  in  what  we  call  the  United  Order. 

I  can  well  remember  the  contest  that  was  going  on  during  my  boy- 
hood days  to  establish  the  eight-hour  labor  day  system.  Men  then 
worked  seventy  hours  a  week,  no  Saturday  afternoons  off.  That  fight 
has  been  won.  And  to  be  brief,  today  we  have  in  our  own  great 
country  leaders  of  industry  that  are  coming  to  accept  not  only  the 
eight-hour  day,  with  Saturday  afternoon  off,  but  a  five-day  week  with 
Saturday  off. 

As  I  say,  with  the  mechanical  devices  that  are  making  it  possible 
to  satisfy  the  demands  of  mankind  with  less  labor,  we  are  approaching 
the  time  when  there  will  be  more  of  a  (Utopian  system  in  the  world 
than  it  has  ever  seen  before.  Impracticable  as  may  be,  in  the  minds  of 
most  people,  the  thought  of  the  establishment  of  what  we  have  called  the 
"United  Order,"  and  little  as  I  feel  myself  prepared  for  it — certainly 
no  more  than  others — yet  I  believe  we  are  coming  to  it.  We  are  being 
driven  to  it.  These  institutions  that  have  been  established — the  fast  day 
contribution,  the  tithing,  the  marvelous  work  of  our  Relief  Society 
women — are  only  leading  up  to  it  and  preparing  us  for  it. 

I  rejoice  when  I  am  able  to  say  in  the  world  that  a  hundred  per 


ELDER  JAMES  H.  MOYLE 


63 


cent  of  that  which  is  contributed  to  charity  by  our  people  goes  to 
charity.  I  know  of  no  other  organization  that  can  make  that  claim.  It 
is  true  there  is  a  vast  amount  of  charitable  work  done  gratuitously,  but 
there  is  no  permanent  institution  established  that  I  know  anything 
about  in  which  there  is  such  a  system. 

May  the  Lord  bless  this  great  work  in  which  we  are  engaged,  and 
fit  and  prepare  us  for  the  great  events  which  I  believe  are  pending  in 
the  world,  and  which  are  in  progress — revolutionary  changes,  changes 
all  over  the  world.  I  have  no  sympathy  with  the  anti-Christian  social- 
ism of  Russia,  or  of  Europe,  but  the  time  is  coming  when  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  will  have  impressed  upon  them  more  and  more,  and  we  will 
see  more  clearly,  the  beauties  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  it  has 
been  revealed  in  these  the  last  days,  and  will  sense  the  responsibility  that 
is  upon  us.    May  we  realize  it. 

I  want  to  appeal  again  to  those  who  have  the  means  to  enable  them 
to  assist  missionaries  who  are  leaving  their  fields  of  labor  because  of 
their  parents'  inability  to  keep  them  there,  that  you  contribute  to  the  limit, 
for  it  is  a  marvelous  work.  I  have  met  since  I  have  been  here  a  number 
of  our  young  people  who  have  returned  from  their  missions.  They 
repeat  to  me  again  and  again  the  joy  that  they  have  in  the  work  they 
did,  and  the  blessings  that  they  were  enjoying  while  they  were  on  their 
missions.  They  wish  that  they  could  go  back,  and  would  do  so  if  it  were 
possible. 

May  this  work  grow  and  prosper,  especially  the  missionary  work 
in  which  I  am  especially  interested.  It  provides  joy  and  happiness  and 
a  satisfaction  that  I  have  never  experienced  in  any  other  work.  It 
enables  me  to  forget  self,  more  than  anything  else  I  know  of.  It 
cultivates  the  love  of  God.  It  brings  us  nearer  to  God.  It  gives  us  a 
clearer  comprehension  and  a  deeper  conviction  of  his  reality  and  exist- 
ence. Those  of  you  who  are  failing  to  assist  your  children  on  missions 
and  to  assist  others  who  are  willing  to  contribute  their  time  are  failing 
in  the  performance  of  your  duty. 

May  God  help  us,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  hymn.  "Guide  us,  O  thou  Great  Jehovah,"  was  sung  by  the 
congregation. 

Elder  Harvey  Sessions,  Patriarch,  Cache  Stake,  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 

The  Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  fourth  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  promptly  at 
2  o'clock  Saturday  afternoon,  October  8. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Our  mountain  home  so  dear." 

Patriarch  Charles  R.  Jones,  of  the  Summit  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

The  hymn,  "O  say,  what  is  truth?"  was  sung  by  the  congregation. 

ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  greatly  enjoyed  each  session  of  this 
conference.  The  inspirational  addresses  given  have  buoyed  us  up  and 
will  aid  us  in  determining  upon  definite  lines  of  action  during  the  next 
six  months,  in  which  the  Church  can  be  most  benefited  by  united  effort. 
To  one  of  these  fields  of  needed  activity,  I  wish  to  direct  your  attention 
for  a  few  minutes. 

OUR  GREATEST  OBLIGATION 

An  eminent  statesman  in  the  United  States  once  wrote: 

"If  we  work  upon  marble  it  will  perish ;  if  upon  brass,  time  will  efface  it. 
If  we  rear  temples  they  will  crumble  into  dust.  But  if  we  work  upon  immortal 
minds,  imbue  them  with  principles  with  a  just  fear  of  God  and  love  of  fellow 
men,  we  engrave  upon  those  tablets  that  which  time  cannot  efface  and  which  will 
endure  through  all  eternity." 

That  thought,  impressively  expressed,  gives  an  idea  of  the  theme 
I  should  like  to  stress  this  afternoon.  We  are  deeply  perturbed,  in 
these  clays,  about  great  social  questions.  The  best  minds  of  the  nation 
are  now  struggling  with  problems  associated  with  one  of  the  greatest 
financial  crises  that  have  ever  swept  this  nation  and  the  world.  Im- 
portant as  this  is,  and  other  social  and  political  questions,  I  believe  that 
the  profoundest  problem  which  this  country  faces,  indeed  the  greatest 
obligation  upon  th'e  government  today,  national,  state  and  local,  is  to 
determine  how  best  to  guide,  protect,  and  educate  properly,  childhood 
and  youth.  This  may  seem  commonplace  to  many  of  you,  so  common- 
place that  you  will  wonder  why  I  take  up  the  time  of  so  important  an 
assembly  to  speak  of  it. 

ATTITUDE  OF  THE  NATION'S  PRESIDENT 

Tie  that  as  it  may,  I  believe  all  agencies  interested  in  child  welfare 
could  cooperate  in  this  great  work  to  the  great  good  of  our  state  and 
nation.  There  are  phases  of  this  problem  which  affect  the  happiness  and 
peace  of  mind  of  every  father  and  mother  in  the  land.    The  question 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


65 


of  child  health  and  guidance  goes  to  the  very  root  of  our  national  life. 
No  less  an  authority  than  the  President  of  the  United  States,  has  aptly 
said : 

"These  questions  are  a  complicated  problem,  requiring  much  learning  and 
much  action,  and  we  need  have  great  concern  over  this  matter.  Let  no  one  believe 
that  these  are  questions  which  should  not  stir  a  nation,  that  they  are  below  the 
dignity  of  statesmen  or  governments.  '  If  we  could  have  but  one  generation  of 
properly  born,  trained,  educated  and  healthy  children,  a  thousand  other  problems 
of  government  would  vanish.  We  would  assure  ourselves  of  healthier  minds  in 
more  vigorous  bodies,  to  direct  the  energies  of  our  nation  to  yet  greater  heights 
of  achievement." 

IN  THE  REALM  OF  DELINQUENCY 

In  calling  your  attention  to  this  important  problem  I  have  not  in 
mind  especially  the  tens  of  thousands  of  lads  in  quorum  activity  nor  the 
one  hundred  thousand  boys  and  girls  enrolled  in  Primary  in  the  Church 
nor  the  hundred  thousand  more  young  people  engaged  in  Mutual 
Improvement  work,  or  the  two  hundred  and  sixty  thousand  enrolled  in 
Sunday  School.  Rather  I  have  in  mind  the  tens  of  thousands  who  are 
not  enrolled  in  these  quorums  and  associations,  and  also  the  boys  and 
girls  who  are  not  affiliated  even  with  church  membership.  I  shall 
eliminate  many  of  those,  and  ask  you  to  consider  this  afternoon  only 
that  group  who  have  crossed  the  border-line  and  entered  the  realm  of 
delinquency — I  shall  not  say  criminality. 

Neither  have  I  in  mind  merely  the  church  as  an  agency  to  guide 
these  children  and  youth,  but  all  agencies  in  the  state  which  are  engaged 
either  directly  or  indirectly  in  winning  back  this  group  of  boys  and  girls 
who  are  causing  us  great  concern.  In  the  realm  of  indifference  and 
delinquency  are  the  causes  of  mothers'  heartbreaks,  of  fathers'  chagrin, 
hunfiliation  and  sorrow.  Comparatively  speaking,  there  are  not  many 
in  that  realm,  but  I  am  wondering  if  all  agencies  are  cooperating 
sufficiently  to  reduce  to  a  minimum  the  number  of  boys  who  have  crossed 
the  border-line.  i 

There  were  5,705  cases  of  delinquency  before  the  Juvenile  Court 
during  the  year  1929-1930,  and  about  as  many  cases  of  dependency  and 
neglect.  For  the  year  beginning  July  1st,  1931,  and  ending  June  30th, 
1932,  there  have  come  before  that  court  in  the  Third  Judicial  District 
a  total  of  843  cases — 627  boys,  216  girls,  between  the  ages  of  ten  and 
eighteen  years. 

COOPERATIVE  EFFORT  NEEDED 

The  Utah  Council  on  Child  Health  and  Protection  is  at  the  present 
time  carrying  forward  a  plan  to  establish  an  organization  in  each  county 
in  this  state  for  the  purpose  of  aiding  childhood  and  youth.  Nearly  half 
the  counties  have  that  organization  now.  These  county  officers  may 
have  access  to  the  reports  of  the  Utah  White  House  Conference  dealing 
with  the  relation  of  the  churches,  Boy  Scouts,  Four  H  Clubs,  and  other 
agencies  concerned  in  the  welfare  of  childhood  and  youth. 


66 


GENERA L  CONFERENCE 


I  hope  that  all  men  and  women  associated  with  these  groups,  will 
join  us  in  the  appeal  for  more  cooperative  effort  in  behalf  of  handling 
the  problem  of  youth.   In  the  report  referred  to  I  find  this  : 

"For  every  case  of  delinquency  there  is  somewhere  a  contributing  factor  to 
such  delinquency.  The  delinquent  acts  are  but  surface  symptoms  of  deeper 
stresses  and  difficulties  reaching  far  into  the  social  life  of  the  community,  and 
back  into  the  earlier  home  and  school  life  of  the  child.  The  community  owes  a 
debt  of  protection  to  children  that  it  does  not  owe  to  adults.  Guardians  of  the 
child  have  a  duty  to  set  such  examples  of  honesty,  sincerity  and  courage  as  will 
challenge  the  child's  emulation,  and  in  these  patterns  of  character  and  good 
citizenship  lies  the  cure  of  juvenile  delinquency,  rather  than  in  the  powers  of 
the  court." 

It  is  estimated  that  about  one-twelfth  of  a  child's  time  is  spent  in 
school,  approximately  one-third,  or  four-twelfths,  spent  in  sleep.  Vary- 
ing amounts  above  the  four-twelfths  are  spent  daily  in  the  home.  Let 
us  say  roughly  that  about  sixty  per  cent  of  the  child's  time,  during 
the  eighteen  years  that  we  are  considering  now,  is  spent  in  the  home, 
in  sleep,  and  in  school.  That  leaves  forty  per  cent  of  a  child's  life  to  be 
spent  outside  of  these  influences.  I  ask  you  guardians  of  the  home 
what  you  are  doing  to  direct  the  efforts  of  childhood  during  that  forty 
per  cent  of  his  life  in  which  he  is  left  alone  to  be  really  himself. 

THE  RESPONSIBILITY  OF  PARENTS 

The  agencies  that  are  affecting  the  child  you  well  know.  First 
comes  the  home.  Upon  fathers  and  mothers  the  Lord  placed  one  of 
the  greatest  responsibilities  that  can  come  to  human  beings.  Hear  again 
what  he  says : 

"Inasmuch  as  parents  have  children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her  stakes  which 
are  organized,  that  teach  them  not  to  understand  the  doctrine  of  repentance, 
faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of  the  Living  God,  and  of  baptism  and  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands,  when  they  are  eight  years  old,  the 
sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents." 

I  believe  that  parents  generally  are  doing  this,  yet  I  am  convinced 
that  there  is  still  much  opportunity  for  improvement  in  this  regard.  I 
am  not  thinking  of  the  set  hours  in  which  you  sit  down  to  teach  these 
doctrines  to  your  children,  but  of  the  example  fathers  and  mothers  give 
to  their  children  as  regards  to  the  faith  that  is  dear  to  your  hearts. 
Your  example  will  teach  these  principles,  more  effectively  than  what 
you  say.  Out  of  our  homes  come  the  future  leaders  of  the  government. 
If  our  homes  were  all  they  should  be,  the  nation  would  be  safe. 

But  too  many  homes  are  broken.  Statistics  tell  us  that  "The  so-called 
broken  home  appears  in  about  one-third  of  all  the  delinquency  cases 
which  come  before  the  juvenile  courts  throughout  the  country."  How- 
ever, in  this  state  (Utah)  out  of  the  5,705  cases  of  delinquency  before 
the  juvenile  courts,  4,043  children  were  residing  with  both  parents  in 
their  own  homes.    Such  a  report  should  challenge  our  best  thought. 

If  in  this  state  the  majority  of  delinquents  come  from  homes  that 
are  unbroken,  I  appeal  to  parents  to  think  more  seriously  of  the  revelation 


ELDER  DAV ID  0.  McKAY  •  67 


found  in  the  sixty-eighth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  part 
of  which  I  have  just  read  to  you. 

THE  SCHOOL  A  RESPONSIBLE  FACTOR 

Next  to  the  home  the  school  is  the  responsible  factor  in  child  train- 
ing. We  have  in  the  state  forty  school  districts,  with  a  school  population 
of  approximately  150,000.  In  1929  fourteen  districts  had  persons 
specially  appointed  to  deal  with  attendance  and  school  coordination 
problems.  Of  these  fourteen  only  seven  districts  had  the  services  of 
one  or  more  persons  on  full  time,  and  were  serving  about  sixty-five 
per  cent  of  the  school  children  of  the  state.  Thirty-five  percent,  in  round 
numbers,  are  without  such  service. 

THE  INFLUENCE  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Next  in  importance — in  some  respects  I  place  it  chief  in  importance 
— is  the  influence  of  the  church.  Of  four  thousand  boys  under  the  age 
of  twenty-one  who  appeared  before  Judge  Lewis  L.  Faucett  of  the 
State  Supreme  Court  of  New  York,  only  three  had  belonged  to  a 
Sunday  School.  I  saw  in  the  public  press  of  this  city  the  other  day 
the  report  that  of  6,642  cases  tried  directly  or  indirectly  over  a  period 
of  several  years  by  Judge  Nielsen  of  the  Juvenile  Court  only  two  per 
cent  or  133,  had  attended  Sunday  School. 

We  might  give  at  length  ample  proof  of  religious  training  as  a 
safeguard  in  the  community  and  as  a  preventative  of  delinquency. 

There  are  three  fundamental  steps  to  take  if  we  would  win  back 
these  boys  and  girls.  The  first  is  to  become  acquainted  with  them,  to 
know  them.  I  was  delighted  yesterday  by  the  reports  given  before  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  conference,  which  gave  the  number  of  young  boys 
who  had  been  brought  into  activity,  who  two  years  ago  were  inactive. 

You  all  know  that  in  1931  the  Church  put  forth  an  effort,  under 
the  auspices  of  the  Sunday  School,  to  account  for  every  boy  and  girl 
who  should  be  enrolled.  In  one  year's  effort  18,000  who  previously  had 
not  been  enrolled  were  brought  into  the  fold. 

REACHING  THE  WAYWARD 

Today  I  heard  a  report  from  a  man  who  is  interested  in  the  4-H 
clubs,  to  the  effect  that  in  one  county,  in  two  districts,  every  girl  between 
the  ages  of  twelve  and  twenty  is  enrolled  in  one  or  more  organizations 
interested  in  girls'  welfare.  I  cite  these  examples  merely  to  show  that 
the  boys  and  girls  who  step  over  the  border-line  may  be  successfully 
reached.  They  are  not  all  bad  boys  and  girls.  They  are  erring  young 
people  who  need  our  help. 

That  brings  me  to  the  second  step,  the  power  of  personality.  You 
are  not  going  to  bring  back  erring  youth  unless  you  first  let  them  know 
that  you  are  interested  in  them.  Let  them  feel  your  heart  touch.  Only 
the  warm  heart  can  kindle  warmth  in  another.  Wayward  boys  and 
girls  are  sometimes  suspicious  of  people  around  them.    Others  get  the 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


idea  that  they  are  not  wanted.  The  kind  hand  or  the  loving  arm, 
removes  suspicion  and  awakens  confidence.  Your  own  experience  bears 
ample  evidence  of  the  value  of  personal  companionship. 

The  third  essential  is  activity.  We  shall  never  accomplish  the  great 
object  that  is  before  us,  in  relation  to  childhood,  until  we  realize  that 
every  boy  and  girl  must  have  something  to  do.  Generally  speaking 
every  child  should  be  occupied  in  either  sleeping,  eating,  working,  study- 
ing or  playing.  Supervised  play  during  the  forty  per  cent  of  his  active 
life  outside  home  and  school  is  a  very  important  factor. 

COOPERATION  NEEDED 

Now,  let  me  just  say  a  word  further  about  the  various  groups  that 
are  interested  in  this  work.  I  quote  again  from  the  Utah  White  House 
Conference  report : 

« 

"The  work  of  both  the  Boy  and  the  Girl  Scout  is  well  known.  The  program 
is  definite,  constructive,  and  very  much  worth  while.  Closer  cooperation  between 
Scouts  and  schools  is  urged. 

"Service  clubs  have  done  and  are  doing  some  work  looking  to  the  betterment 
of  boys  and  girls,  but  not  in  the  amount  and  quality  which  might  be  done. 

"The  forest  service  is  ready  to  do  its  part  in  the  movement  under  consider- 
ation. It  has  provided  mountain  recreation  centers,  and  is  anxious  to  cooperate 
with  the  schools  in  teaching  boys  and  girls  how  to  use  the  forest  areas  to  a 
greater  degree. 

"A  splendid  attitude  is  manifested  by  the  newspapers  of  the  state.  They 
are  ready  and  anxious  to  cooperate  with  the  schools  and  any  other  agency  in 
promoting  the  welfare  of  our  children.  They  have  done  much  in  this  respect 
by  fostering  wholesome  activities,  providing  suitable  reading  matter,  and  encour- 
aging, through  publications,  the  commendable  work  of  others. 

"Evidently  the  most  pressing  need  which  has  manifested  itself  to  your 
sub-committee  has  to  do  with  the  bringing  about  of  better  cooperation  between 
the  public  and  private  schools  of  the  state  and  the  various  organizations  men- 
tioned." 

The  need  of  coordinating  these  and  other  agencies  in  their  efforts 
to  better  childhood  is  apparent  to  every  thinking  person.  The  situation 
calls  for  a  State  Welfare  Department,  the  special  duty  of  which  will  be 
to  employ  the  most  modern  methods  of  dealing  with  the  problems  of 
training  youth  and  particularly  to  center  attention  upon  the  preventions 
of  delinquency  and  other  social  ills. 

As  a  summary  of  the  message  I  have  tried  to  convey  to  you,  I 
quote  the  following  lines  : 

"He  stood  at  the  crossroads  all  alone, 

The  sunrise  in  his  face ; 
He  had  no  thought  for  the  world  unknown, 

He  was  set  for  a  manly  race. 
But  the  road  stretched  east  and  the  road  stretched  west, 

And  the  boy  knew  not  which  road  was  best. 
So  he  strolled  on  the  road  that  led  him  down, 

And  he  lost  the  race  and  the  victor's  crown, 
He  was  caught  at  last  in  an  angry  snare, 

Because  no  one  stood  at  the  crossroads  there 
To  show  him  the  better  road. 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


b9 


"Another  day  at  the  self-same  place, 

A  boy  with  high  hopes  stood; 
He,  too,  was  set  for  a  manly  race, 

He,  too,  was  seeking  the  things  that  were  good. 
But  one  was  there  who  the  roads  did  know, 

And  that  one  showed  him  which  way  to  go; 
So  he  turned  from  the  road  that  would  lead  him  down, 

And  he  won  the  race  and  the  victor's  crown, 
He  walks  today  the  highway  fair, 

Because  one  stood  at  the  crossroads  there, 
To  show  him  the  better  road." 

God  inspire  us  all  to  make  the  Church  of  God  effective  in  saving  the 
youth  of  the  land,  in  instilling  in  their  hearts  faith  in  God,  in  his  Son, 
and  in  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY 

President  of  the  'California  Mission 

This  is  a  very  great  privilege  and  a  very  grave  responsibility.  I 
will  be  happy  if  the  Lord  shall  inspire  me  with  his  Holy  Spirit  and 
enable  me  to  speak  that  which  he  would  have  me  say.  I  believe  in  the 
spirit  of  inspiration.  In  this  mature  period  of  my  life  I  have  long  since 
learned,  in  this  Church,  that  if  I  am  left  alone  I  am  weak  indeed ;  but 
not  if  inspired  and  in  the  cause  of  truth.  There  is  no  power  that  can 
overcome  the  man  who  is  inspired  of  the  Lord  and  who  speaks  in 
defense  of  righteousness. 

I  come  with  a  cheering  report  from  the  California  Mission.  No 
man  could  live  in  California  a  winter  and  a  summer  and  not  feel  led 
to  speak  well  of  that  great  country,  as  well  as  of  her  people.  The  Cali- 
fornia Mission  includes  most  of  Galifornia,  most  of  Arizona,  and  most 
of  Nevada,  and  represents  millions  of  choice  people.  Our  place  in 
that  mission  seems  to  be  firmly  taken.  Our  numbers  there  increase 
steadily.  Our  stability  seems  to  be  assured.  The  happiness  of  the 
people  is  continuous.  I  find  a  satisfaction  among  them  that  is  very 
gratifying.  Thousands,  many  thousands.  I  think  possibly  forty  thousand 
people,  members  of  the  Church,  are  in  that  locality ;  perhaps  more  than 
that;  many  of  them  in  organized  stakes.  The  mission  proper,  outside 
the  boundaries  of  these  stakes,  includes  about  twelve  thousand  people, 
among  them  some  of  the  choicest  in  the  world. 

The  presidents  of  those  sixty-three  branches,  with  their  counselors 
and  the  heads  of  the  auxiliary  organizations,  include  men  and  women 
who  know  the  truth  and  live  it,  who  love  the  Lord  and  love  his  children, 
and  are  respected  by  all  men. 

from  the  point  of  good  works  and  improvement,  measured  upon 
every  line  that  we  measure  in  this  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  things  are 
favorable.  The  righteousness  of  the  people  is  increasing.  They  may 
be  worried;  many  of  them,  being  wage-earners,  are  left  on  reduced 
wages  and  shortened  hours  that  they  are  permitted  to  labor,  and  many 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  them  only  have  occasional  opportunities  to  labor  to  earn  their  living.. 
Financially  I  should  say  that  perhaps  they  were  never  worse  off.  Spir- 
itually I  should  say  that  I  think  they  were  never  more  prosperous. 
From  point  of  health  I  bring  you  good  report. 

Now,  relative  to  the  missionary  work,  I  could  easily  call  for  help, 
and  know  that  it  would  be  a  hard  matter  to  receive  it.  I  think  I  have 
made  a  report  that  the  missionary  force  there  has  dropped  from  the 
high  point  at  one  time  when  men  and  women  commissioned  of  the  Lord 
went  from  place  to  place  over  that  great  area,  lifting  their  warning 
voices,  when  we  had  as  high  as  two  hundred  and  twenty-one.  Today 
it  will  sound  serious  to  you  when  I  shall  make  the  report  that  there  are 
but  twenty-five  full-time  Elders  and  eleven  sisters  in  that  field. 

If  we  had  to  look  after  the  work  of  all  of  that  great  group  of 
people  and  try  to  do  the  work  that  was  formerly  done  by  missionaries 
that  were  sent  out  from  Zion,  you  will  understand  readily  that  we 
would  be  in  a  very  helpless  condition.  But  we  have  fortunately  not 
been  left  to  suffer  as  these  figures  would  indicate.  We  have  called  for 
help  from  among  the  many  down  there  who  know  the  truth  as  you  and  I 
know  the  truth,  and  who  live  it  as  faithfully  as  we  have  ever  dared  to 
live  it  or  ever  could  live  it;  who  hold  the  same  priesthood,  have  the 
same  love  of  God  in  their  hearts,  the  same  love  of  his  children,  and  a 
courage  that  is  built  up  by  being  out  in  a  world  that  offers  resistance — 
I  say  among  that  group,  when  we  called  for  help,  the  response  was 
wonderful.  One  hundred  and  six  Elders  and  thirty  sisters  have  been 
appointed,  and  the  service  they  are  rendering  is  marvelous  in  its  result. 
They  stand  upon  the  streets  as  fearlessly,  as  boldly,  as  your  sons  and 
your  daughters  have  done  in  days  gone  by,  and  testify  of  the  restored 
Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  In  their  homes,  as  they  go  to  and 
come  from  their  work,  at  the  bench,  or  wherever  they  labor,  they 
manifest  righteousness  before  all  men.  Their  lives  are  eloquent  sermons. 
Wjhen  they  appear  at  the  door  of  a  house  and  introduce  themselves  as 
commissioned  servants  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  it  may  be  at  the 
home  of  a  neighbor  who  works  side  by  side  with  them ;  and  whenever 
that  is  the  case  the  door  opens,  the  Elder  enters,  he  offers  his  message, 
invites  the  members  of  that  household  unto  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and 
testifies  to  them  of  this  great  work.  So  the  efficiency  of  that  great 
mission  and  the  results  of  the  labors  of  the  missionaries  in  that  mission 
indicate  that  the  work  has  not  slackened  but  that  it  moves  on. 

Never  have  I  had  greater  joy  in  all  my  life,  in  all  the  Church  work 
that  I  have  ever  done.  It  has  seemed  to  me  that  the  greatest  joy  comes 
in  the  proclamation  of  the  Gospel.  That  early  experience  of  my  younger 
manhood  days,  in  far-off  Holland,  three  years  of  service,  has  always 
been  one  of  the  bright  spots  of  my  life.  That  same  love  and  joy  was 
renewed  a  few  years  hence  when  I  was  permitted  to  labor  under  the 
kindly  direction  of  President  Callis  in  the  Southern  States  Mission. 
And  now,  out  in  the  California  Mission,  that  comes  back  with  the  same 
gratifying,  satisfying,  blessed  results. 

I  bear  testimony  to  you  of  these  young  men  with  whom  I  am 


ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY 


71 


permitted  to  labor,  clean  in  attire,  clean  in  body,  honest  in  heart,  qualified 
in  intelligence  and  in  learning  and  in  understanding  of  the  truths  of  the 
Gospel.  With  these  fundamental  requisites,  lighted  up  by  the  inspiration 
of  the  Almighty,  they  go  forth  with  hearts  aglow,  and  their  testimony 
is  burning.  To  be  associated  with  them,  to  feel  the  spirit  of  their 
young  manhood,  and  the  strength  of  their  faith,  stirs  my  soul  to  the 
very  depths.  The  Saints  love  them,  I  love  them,  and  I  tell  you  we  are 
one.  The  Lord  loves  them  and  he  magnifies  them.  Their  influence 
is  holy  wherever  they  go.  They  love  these  truths.  They  fear  no  man. 
They  have  a  courage  that  never  surrenders.  They,  I  tell  you,  are  the 
very  salt  of  the  earth. 

It  is  very  impressive  to  see  these  young  men,  in  the  strength  of 
their  manhood,  and  these  young  women,  when  the  day  comes  that  you 
can  tender  unto  them  an  honorable  release — to  see  them  as  they  stand 
and  know  that  this  relationship  is  being  broken  in  part,  and  hardly 
know  what  they  shall  meet  when  they  reach  home — and  they  break 
down  and  say :  "May  the  Lord  grant  that  I  may  retain  forever  this 
spirit  that  leads  me  not  only  to  love  God  my  Father,  but  to  love  his 
children  and  seek  their  salvation  and  their  welfare."  It  brings  them 
home  qualified  to  carry  responsibility.  My  prayer  is  that  they  shall  be 
used,  that  in  this  high  point  of  qualification  to  serve  they  shall  never 
rest,  but  that  they  shall  go  on  with  this  service  forever  and  forever. 

I  leave  my  testimony  with  you  of  the  joy  that  I  have  in  declaring 
that  which  I  do  know.  I  tell  you  that  there  is  no  joy  that  equals  the 
joy  of  having  that  which  you  know  the  world  needs,  and  offering  it 
unto  them  as  the  power  that  will  lead  them  out  of  their  troubles,  settle 
all  the  doubts  in  their  hearts,  and  lead  them  on  to  salvation.  This  is 
the  glorious  work  that  we  are  proclaiming,  and  it  is  for  the  world,  for 
the  salvation  of  the  world,  and  God  leads  it  to  victory.  That  is  my 
testimony,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Sister  Bessie  Morley  sang  a  sacred  solo,  "To  every  heart." 

ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

President  of  the  Granite  Stake 

In  harmony  with  the  song  which  has  just  been  so  impressively  sung, 
may  I  refer  to  the  words  of  the  poet  Cooper,  taken  from  that  sacred 
hymn,  "God  Moves  in  a  Mysterious  Way:" 

Judge  not  the  Lord  by  feeble  sense, 

But  trust  him  for  his  grace. 
Behind  a  frowning  providence 

He  hides  a  smiling  face. 

His  purposes  will  ripen  fast, 

Unfolding  every  hour : 
The  bud  may  have  a  bitter  taste, 

But  sweet  will  be  the  flower. 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Blind  unbelief  is  sure  to  err, 

And  scan  his  work  in  vain. 
God  is  his  own  interpreter, 

And  he  shall  make  it  plain. 

I  should  like  to  read  two  verses  from  the  book  of  Joel : 

"Blow  ye  the  trumpet  in  Zion,  and  sound  an  alarm  in  my  holy  mountain: 
let  all  the  inhabitants  of  the  land  tremble:  for  the  day  of  the  Lord  cometh,  for 
it  is  nigh  at  hand ; 

"A  day  of  darkness  and  of  gloominess,  a  day  of  clouds  and  of  thick  darkness, 
as  the  morning  spread  upon  the  mountains :  a  great  people  and  a  strong ;  there 
hath  not  been  ever  the  like,  peither  shall  be  any  more  after  it,  even  to  the  years 
of  many  generations." 

For  four  years  and  more  1914  to  1918 — the  greatest  of  world  wars 
raged  on  the  European  and  Asiatic  frontiers,  to  which  the  continents 
of  America  and  Africa  contributed  their  full  share.  Twenty  million 
of  the  physically  finest  men  of  the  nations  were  among  the  casualties. 
Then  came  so-called  peace.  But  during  the  fourteen  years  that  have 
ensued  we  have  had  some  twenty  wars  and  the  distracted,  nerve-racked, 
panic-stricken  world  has  witnessed  the  most  disturbing  period  of  alleged 
national  and  international  harmony  ever  known. 

Perhaps  never  in  history  have  the  leaders  of  nations  been  more 
earnest  in  their  desires  for  lasting  peace,  but  never  before  have  men 
been  so  much  concerned  about  the  future.  They  see  in  coming  events 
dangers  to  our  civilization.  May  I  refer  briefly  to  what  some  of  them 
have  said?  The  Prince  of  Wales,  speaking  to  the  young  people  of  the 
British  Empire,  this  year,  at  Albert  Hall,  in  London,  said : 

"We  have  before  us  today  a  world  sick  with  fearful  doubts,  weary  with 
repeated  disappointments,  a  world  of  troubled  nations,  whose  vital  need  is 
courageous  faith.  It  is  an  era  of  potential  plenty,  when  confidence  should  be 
supreme,  yet  we  see  in  almost  every  land  wide-spread  distress  and  perplexity." 

In  their  call  to  prayer  at  the  opening  of  the  year,  the  Moderators 
of  the  Churches  of  Scotland  wrote  to  their  people : 

"The  complicated  problems  and  haunting  uncertainties  which  loom  ahead 
in  1932  cause  stout  hearts  to  quake  and  quail." 

Dr.  Widtsoe,  writing  from  Europe  in  April  of  this  year,  said : 

"The  distress  that  covers  these  European  lands  has  never  been  more  serious 
in  written  history.  There  will  have  to  be  some  tremendous  readjustments  before 
peace  and  prosperity  will  rule  these  lands  again." 

Frank  H.  Simonds,  the  noted  international  writer : 

"No  one  in  Europe,  holding  responsible  office,  is  blind  to  the  fact  that  the 
whole  continent  is  sinking  into  an  almost  indescribable  state  of  economic  and 
financial  prostration." 

W.  T.  Ellis : 

"Mankind  is  befuddled  and  bewildered,  and  even  cloudy  today,  because  it 
has  lost  the  landmarks  of  faith,  and  the  sense  of  a  Supreme  Being  and 


ELDER  *  flUGH  B.  BROWN  73 

His  eternal  law.  We  have  got  Ito  get  down  to  the  everlasting  verities  of  life. 
That  means  that  the  world  must  hear  with  new  distinctness  and  understanding, 
'thus  saith  the  Lord*," 

I  refer  to  these  expressed  opinions  of  well  informed  men  not  to 
emphasize  the  seriousness  of  the  situation  but  that  the  challenge  of  it 
might  be  recognized.  Surely  the  duty  of  the  church  today  is  first  to  call 
attention  to  existing  conditions;  and  secondly,  if  possible,  point  the 
way  out. 

The  Christian  Advocate,  a  Methodist  paper,  makes  this  statement : 

"The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  is  under  a  heavy  responsibility,  in  these  times, 
to  lead  the  masses  out  of  economic  bondage  in  which  they  suffer.  That  is  its 
commission,  as  truly  as  it  was  the  high  calling  of  Moses  to  free  the  serfs  of 
Egypt  from  their  industrial  slavery.  The  economic  motive,  which  is  the  motive 
of  finding  a  chance  to  live,  is  the  weightiest  consideration  in  the  midst  of  the 
millions.  Already  we  clearly  see  the  set  of  the  tide.  He  is  blind  who  does  not 
see  it.   He  is  worse  than  blind  who  will  not." 

World  leaders  are  directing  their  attention  to  the  vital  need  of 
religion.    One  says : 

"The  world  in  its  misery  and  impotence  awaits  that  redemption  and  relief 
which  religion  only  can  give." 

Professor  Ladd  of  Yale  says : 

"The  call  of  the  world  of  men  today,  which  is  most  insistent  and  intense, 
if  not  most  loud  and  clamorous,  is  for  a  rehabilitation  of  religious  faith." 

One  of  our  scientists  detects  the  dawn  of  what  he  calls  "scientific 
spirituality"  and  he  says : 

"Happily  there  is  dawning  upon  our  age  a  scientific  spirituality,  a  new  type 
of  mind,  that  studies  the  truths  of  faith  with  the  care,  caution  and  candor  of 
science,  keeping  the  warmth  and  glow  and  power  of  faith." 

Another  recognizes  the  value  of  religion  in  these  words : 

"While  I  rejoice  in  the  .advance  of  science,  I  deplore  the  desuetude  of  regular 
religious  services,  with  their  encouragement  of  worship  and  prayer,  for  the  good 
reason  that  personal  experience  and  the  study  of  history  convince  me  that  this 
absence  of  the  religious  habit  leads  to  an  ugly  chaos  in  private  and  public  morals 
and  to  ja  subtle  lowering  of  the  sense  of  beauty." 

And  further  we  read : 

"What  great  deliverance  could  come  to  the  unnumbered  thousands  suffering 
from  hidden  complexes,  exaggerated  inferiority,  inward  conflicts,  fear,  phobias 
and  anxieties,  all  leading  to  ineffectiveness  and  unhappiness,  if  religion  were  to 
harness  its  incomparable  dynamic  to  the  fine  tools  of  personal  and  analytical 
psychology." 

We  were  reminded  yesterday  by  President  Hinckley  of  some  of  the 
characteristics  of  our  fathers.  How  they  met  and  overcame  their 
difficulties  and  obstacles.  We  were  told  they  were  men  of  courage 
and  resourcefulness,  men  whose  religion  was  a  dominant  factor  in 
every  decision;  men  who  understood  something  of  the  dynamic  of 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


religion  as  mentioned  by  our  modern  writers.  Our  fathers  recognized 
the  value  of  spiritual  leadership  and  the  course  of  their  intensely  prac- 
tical lives  was  determined  by  it.  They  had  faith  in.  God  and  with  that 
faith  courageously  met  their  problems  and  hopefully  faced  the  future. 

This  challenge  of  our  background  issues  directly  to  the  young  men 
and  women  of  the  Church  in  this  crisis.  It  will  not  be  long  until  this 
work  will  pass  to  the  shoulders  of  your  sons  and  daughters.  It  will 
not  be  long  until  these  presiding  officers,  who  have  borne  the  brunt  of 
the  battle  for  so  many  years,  will  be  released  and  the  work  will  devolve 
upon  the  young  men  and  women  of  the  Church.  How  well  are  they  pre- 
pared ? 

I  corroborate  and  should  like  to  emphasize  the  splendid  tribute 
which  /President  Harris  paid  to  the  young  people  of  the  Church.  My 
contacts  with  them  inspire  me  with  the  thought  that  this  is  truly  the 
work  of  God,  and  that  he  is  raising  up  an  army  of  young  men  and  young 
women  to  carry  it  forward.  /We  recently  called  upon  them  in  one  of 
the  stakes  to  respond  to  the  great  duty  of  helping  their  less  fortunate 
brothers  and  sisters.  Their  faith  in  the  Church  was  manifested  by  their 
hearty  response  and  willing  sacrifice  causing  us  to  feel  that  the  older 
members  need  not  fear  for  its  future.  These  young  people,  with  the 
help  of  God,  will  carry  on.  They  have  not  forgotten  the  promises  of 
the  Lord,  made  through  the  same  prophet  Joel,  from  whom  we  read 
this  afternoon.    Later  in  the  same  chapter  he  says : 

"And  ye  shall  know  that  I  am  in  the  midst  of  Israel,  and  that  I  am  the  Lord 
your  God,  and  none  else :  and  my  people  shall  never  be  ashamed.  And  it  shall 
come  to  pass  afterward,  that  I  will  pour  out  my  spirit  upon  all  flesh;  and  your 
sons  and  your  daughters  shall  prophesy,  your  old  men  shall  dream  dreams,  your 
young  men  shall  see  visions." 

For  years  we  have  been  teaching  our  theology,  and  successfully 
teaching  it  to  the  world.  We  must  now  make  practical  application  of 
our  religion ;  must  again  refer  to  and  apply  in  our  daily  lives  the  words 
of  the  Master  as  recorded  in  holy  writ.    May  I  read  some  of  them : 

"Love  one  another." 

"By  this  shall  all  men  know  that  ye  are  my  disciples." 

"By  love,  serve  one  another,  for  all  the  law  is  fulfilled  in  one  word,  even 
in  this,  thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as  thyself." 

"When  ye  are  in  the  service  of  your  fellow  beings  ye  are  only  in  the  service 
of  your  God." 

"All  things  whatsoever  ye  would  that  men  should  do  unto  you,  do  ye  even 
so  to  them." 

"Bear  one  another's  burden,  and  so  fulfil  the  law  of  Christ." 
"Above  all  things,  clothe  yourselves  with  the  bonds  of  charity  as  with  a 
mantle." 

"Remember  the  poor,  and  consecrate  of  thy  properties  for  their  support, 
that  which  thou  hast  to  impart  unto  them,  with  a  covenant  and  a  deed  which  cannot 
be  broken." 

"Inasmuch  as  ye  impart  of  your  substance  unto  the  poor,  ye  will  do  it 
unto  me." 

"Whoso  stoppeth  his  ears  at  the  cry  of  the  poor,  he  also  shall  cry  himself, 
but  shall  not  be  heard." 

It  seems  to  me  that  the  application  of  the  principles  of  the  Gospel 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN  75 

of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  most  important  task  before  us  today.  As  I  listened 
to  Elder  McKay  this  afternoon,  telling  us  of  the  millions  of  young 
people  outside  the  churches  whose  hearts  are  not  being  touched  by 
religious  instruction,  I  thought,  this  Church  must  furnish  leadership 
for  the  world,  must  show  the  way  out  of  this  serious  economic  situation 
by  .calling  attention  to  the  message  of  Jesus  and  by  applying  the  prin- 
ciples taught  by  him. 

The  young  people  of  the  Church  have  asked,  What  is  the  Church 
doing  to  lead  the  way  out?  And  the  answer  has  been  given  in  this 
conference  that  from  the  time  of  its  organization  doctrines  have  been 
taught,  advice  and  admonition  have  been  given,  which,  if  followed, 
would  most  definitely  meet  the  need  of  the  hour.  The  leadership  is  here 
if  we  have  the  courage  and  faith  to  follow  it.  I  am  sure  the  young 
people  of  the  Church  have  such  faith.  I  feel  that  they  will  respond 
to  the  call  that  is  now  made  of  them.  I  believe  that  they  will  do,  as 
the  Apostle  Paul  advised  when  he  said : 

"Finally,  my  brethren,  be  strong  in  the  Lord,  and  in  the  power  of  his  might. 

"Put  on  the  whole  armour  of  God,  that  ye  may  be  able  to  stand  against 
the  wiles  of  the  devil. 

"For  we  wrestle  not  against  flesh  and  blood,  but  against  principalities,  against 
powers,  against  the  rulers  of  the  darkness  of  this  world,  against  spiritual 
wickedness  in  Jiigh  places. 

"Wherefore  take  unto  you  the  whole  armour  of  God,  that  ye  may  be 
able  to  withstand  in  the  evil  day,  and  having  done  all,  to  stand. 

"Stand  therefore,  having  your  loins  girt  about  with  truth,  and  having  on  the 
breastplate  of  righteousness. 

"And  your  feet  shod  with  the  preparation  of  the  gospel  of  peace; 

"Above  all,  taking  the  shield  of  faith,  wherewith  ye  shall  be  able  to  quench 
all  the  fiery  darts  of  the  wicked. 

"And  take  the  helmet  of  salvation,  and  the  sword  of  the  Spirit,  which  is  the 
word  of  God : 

"Praying  always  with  all  prayer  and  supplication  in  the  Spirit,  and  watching 
thereunto  with  all  perseverance  and  supplication  for  all  saints." 

I  testify  to  the  truth  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  testify  that 
I  know  this  is  his  work.  I  know  he  is  at  the  helm.  Though  there  may 
be  troublous  times  ahead  of  us,  we  have  the  'absolute  assurance  of 
victory.  There  may  be  and  will  be  "days  of  darkness  and  gloominess" 
as  predicted  in  the  first  scripture  read,  but  we  know  that  he  whom  we 
serve  will  see  us  through.  Let  us  not  be  content  to  call  attention  to  the 
predictions  made  concerning  the  calamities  which  are  to  befall  the 
nations,  but  rather  emphasize  the  glorious  promises  of  final  victory 
and  peace. 

God  grant  that  we  may  put  on  the  armour  of  faith,  that  through 
living  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  we  may  provide  leadership  for  the 
world,  for  I  believe  it  will  yet  be  demanded  of  us.  I  pray  for  his  Spirit 
and  blessing  upon  us,  that  we  may  not  be  afraid,  that  we  may  not  talk 
gloom  or  despondency  or  discouragement,  but  we  may  emulate  the 
lives  of  our  fathers,  and  with  courage  and  resourcefulness  and  absolute 
faith  in  God  go  forward  to  meet  the  battles  and  problems  of  this  age. 
I  promise  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  with  that  faith  we  will 
conquer.   May  it  be  so,  I  pray,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

We  have  heard  many  strong  testimonies,  many  fervent  admonitions, 
much  good  advice,  quotations  of  numerous  scriptures,  every  one  to 
the  point,  in  this  conference.  You  will  agree  with  me  in  the  thought  that 
it  is  good  for  us  to  be  here  and  to  have  been  here  in  the  earlier  sessions. 
W,hen  this  conference  shall  end  we  are  not  going  away  disappointed, 
but  enriched  and  encouraged,  I  trust,  in  the  duties  that  lie  immediately 
before  us. 

RELIGION  A  SUPPORT 

Of  late  I  have  found  the  thought  welling  up  in  my  mind,  even 
more  forcefully  and  persistently  than  usual :  Of  what  use  to  me  is  my 
religion  under  these  times  of  special  stress  and  test  ?  I  take  it  that  even 
if  you  had  not  known  before  you  came  here  that  we  are  living  under 
times  of  pressure  and  strain  you  would  know  it  by  this  time,  for  several 
speakers  have  emphasized  the  fact.  If  you  had  not  realized  that 
there  is  something  called  the  depression  abroad  in  the  world,  you  must 
have  found  it  out  by  this  time,  for  that  also  has  been  mentioned  by 
speaker  after  speaker. 

The  word  "depression"  has  become  decidedly  trite,  but  I  do  not 
know  any  other  word  in  the  English  language  that  exactly  expresses 
the  condition  we  wish  to  describe.  Now,  we  must  recognize  that  as  an 
existing  condition.  It  is  no  mere  theory,  but  a  solemn  fact.  It  is  not 
merely  a  local  condition,  it  is  not  only  nation-wide,  but  world-wide. 

PRESENT  CONDITION  FORETOLD 

It  may  be  small  comfort  to  remind  you  that  this  thing  was  definitely 
foretold.  It  may  perhaps  not  soften  the  fact  of  your  financial  difficulties 
to  tell  you  that  you  have  heard  of  these  hard  times  from  the  mouths  of 
those  whom  you  sustain  as  your  leaders,  utterances  made  from  this 
stand,  and  from  the  pulpits  in  your  several  stakes  and  wards  for  lo,  these 
many  years  past.  Some  of  you  will  know  that  I,  with  my  brethren,  have 
been  very  plain  in  citing  to  you  scriptures,  perhaps  apologizing  in  a 
way  for  appearing  a  little  pessimistic,  yet  begging  you  to  understand 
the  predictions  as  being  the  nature  of  optimistic  warnings  in  the  way  of 
caution  and  counsel. 

True,  this  reminder  may  not  be  of  any  more  comfort  to  you  than 
that  to  a  boy  who  is  writhing  in  the  after  effects  of  eating  green  apples 
to  be  told  that  he  was  warned  against  green  apples. 

FAILURE  TO  UNDERSTAND 

Remember  that  the  Lord  said  to  his  disciples  in  the  day  of  his 
personal  ministry :  I  tell  you  these  things  beforehand,  that  when  they 
come  to  pass  you  may  see  and  understand. 

He  knew  very  well  that  not  many  of  them  would  open  their  ears 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


77 


and  their  hearts  and  understand  at  the  time  what  he  said.  He  told 
them  of  the  troubles  that  were  about  to  befall  Jerusalem.  He  told  them 
of  the  persecutions  that  were  coming  upon  them,  his  chosen  ones.  He 
told  them  of  the  crucifixion  that  was  awaiting  himself,  and  they  could 
not  or  would  not  understand  but  tried  to  explain  away  his  words  as 
passing  remarks  incident  to  the  times.  Do  you  not  remember  how  he 
tried  to  make  them  understand  that  he  was  speaking  in  earnest,  and 
that  he  wanted  them  to  take  his  words  literally? 

On  that  solemn  march  of  his  on  the  way  to  Jerusalem  and  the 
tomb,  traversing  the  roads  slowly,  and  halting  wherever  he  found  people 
willing  to  listen  to  him,  he  stopped  and  beckoned  his  followers  to  come 
up,  and  said  to  them :  Let  this  thing  sink  down  deep  into  your  ears 
and  hearts — I,  the  Son  of  Man,  am  on  my  way  to  Jerusalem  to  be  handed 
over  to  wicked  men,  I  am  to  be  crucified  and  on  the  third  day  shall 
rise  again. 

Then  he  passed  on,  and  they  talked  among  themselves  wondering — 
What  in  the  world  does  he  mean  by  rising  again  ?  Even  after  he  had 
risen  from  the  sepulcher  there  were  many  who  doubted.  When  the 
women  came  from  the  tomb  with  the  gladsome  news  some  of  the  disciples 
treated  the  story  as  but  an  idle  tale  based  on  emotional  imagination. 

Well,  that  may  be  a  trait  of  human  nature  developed  through  the 
centuries,  but  I  trust  we  can  rise  above  it,  and  open  our  eyes  and  our 
hearts  and  come  to  an  understanding  of  what  the  Lord  has  told  us,  of 
what  he  is  telling  us,  for  he  speaks  today  in  terms  that  are  literal 
and  in  the  language  that  we  best  can  understand. 

HUMAN  WISDOM  MAY  BE  AT  FAULT 

Oh,  there  are  so  many  tongues  spoken  among  men ;  the  world  is 
a  babel ;  but  of  the  tongues  used  by  the  Lord  in  his  communication 
with  men  he  selects  for  each  occasion  the  language  that  they  ought  to 
understand.  He  spoke  through  the  voice  of  prophecy,  year  after  year, 
decade  after  decade,  century  after  century,  telling  of  the  wars  that 
would  surely  come  in  the  last  days,  warning  the  people  against  the 
conditions  that  would  make  those  wars  certain.  But  would  men  hear? 
On  the  very  eve  of  the  outbreak  of  the  World  War  there  stood  in 
this  very  pulpit  one  of  the  world's  greatest  thinkers,  who  declared 
conditions  to  be  such  that  there  never  could  be  another  great  war  between 
and  among  the  major  powers  of  the  world ;  that  the  financial  interests 
of  the  world  were  such  as  to  forbid.  Then  having  demonstrated,  by 
the  citation  of  statistics  and  figures  many,  that  there  could  not  be  such 
a  war,  he  proceeded  to  demonstrate  that  if  war  did  break  out  in  spite 
of  all,  it  could  not  last  more  than  six  weeks;  for  there  was  not  enough 
wealth  in  the  world  to  keep  a  war  going  with  present-day  weapons  and 
under  conditions  of  modern  fighting,  more  than  a  few  weeks. 

I  heard  him  speak,  and  I  had  occasion  afterward  to  say  to  him : 
"Doctor,  you  have  left  out  some  important  factors  of  your  problem." 
He  said:  "What  are  they?"  "The  words  of  the  prophets;  for  the 
war  will  come.    It  has  been  predicted  conditionally,  and  the  conditions 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


are  such  as  to  make  its  coming  certain."  And  I  heard  the  refrain  of 
ancient  prophecy :  "Behold,  I  will  proceed  to  do  a  marvelous  work 
among  this  people,  even  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder :  for  the 
wisdom  of  their  wise  men  shall  perish  and  the  understanding  of  their 
prudent  men  shall  be  hid." 

BODY,  MIND  AND  SPIRIT 

We  recognize  that  a  human  being  is  more  than  a  physical  creation. 
The  man  who  thinks  otherwise  is  behind  the  times,  in  the  first  place, 
even  in  the  matter  of  the  fads  and  fashions  of  changing  conjecture. 
Do  you  think  you  are  nothing  more  than  a  makeup  of  bones  and  muscles, 
of  nervous  tissue  and  blood  and  other  anatomical  structures  of  your 
body  ?  You  are  more  than  that !  You  know  it,  and  the  man  who  says 
he  is  nothing  more  really  feels  or  fears  that  he  is.  He  feels  that  he  is 
something  more  than  that,  though  he  may  try  to  persuade  himself 
otherwise.  There  is  something  in  this  human  frame  of  ours  that 
existed  before  the  body  was  formed.  Some  people  have  called  it  soul, 
spirit,  mind,  and  some  by  names  that  are  less  common  among  us — 
gnome  or  devil ;  but  it  is  there.  It  is  the  immortal  spirit  that  existed 
in  the  primeval  kingdom,  in  its  period  of  pristine  childhood,  before  ever 
it  came  to  take  its  place  in  this  school  of  mortality,  and  to  assume  the 
student's  garb  of  flesh. 

A  man  is  more  than  body  and  mind ;  he  consists  of  body  and  mind 
and  spirit,  though  we  may  regard  the  mind  as  being  an  attribute  of  the 
spirit.  [We  know  that  our  educators  have  risen  above  the  thought  that 
education  should  deal  only  with  the  mind.  We  have  had  intellectual 
giants  developed  among  us  who  were  of  small  practical  use,  compar- 
atively speaking,  and  some  of  them  have  proved  a  detriment  and  hind- 
rance to  the  progress  of  the  race.  We  have  had  physical  giants  with 
the  strength  of  huge  animals  but  with  minds  dwarfed,  and  spirits 
shrunken  and  shriveled. 

SPIRITUALITY  NEGLECTED 

Educators  today  are  recognizing  the  need  of  symmetrical  training, 
developing  the  body  and  the  mind.  But  that  would  not  be  a  sym- 
metrical education  because  aside  from  the  mind,  even  though  the  mind 
be  an  attribute  of  the  spirit,  there  is  the  spirit  itself,  and  the  race  has 
not  developed  spiritually  in  due  proportion.  Let  the  evolutionists  show 
to  what  extent  man  has  developed  spiritually  during  the  last  several 
centuries.  And  the  fact  that  man  has  become  unsymmetrical  in  his 
development  is  the  all-important  fact,  I  take  it,  lying  at  the  basis  of  the 
disturbed  conditions  in  society  today. 

AN  INSTANCE 

By  the  way,  only  yesterday  I  noticed  an  item  regarding  two  great 
structures  in  the  city  of  London,  not  very  far  apart,  St.  Paul's  Cathedral, 
a  triumph  of  architecture,  a  monument  to  the  great  architect,  Sir 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


79 


Christopher  Wren,  and  the  Bank  of  England,  in  the  same  section  of  the 
city.  It  has  been  discovered  that  both  those  buildings  are  leaning 
over,  their  foundations  seem  to  be  sinking,  with  the  possibility  of  their 
eventual  fall,  and  capable  engineers  have  been  called  into  consultation. 

I  noted  that  Professor  Miles  Wlalker,  who  is  the  president  of  the 
engineering  section  of  the  British  Association  for  the  Advancement  of 
Science,  had  something  to  do  with  the  consideration  of  that  problem,  and 
he  draws  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  cases  in  point  are  not  the  only 
kinds  of  displacement  to  be  considered  in  this  world  of  ours  today — -the 
sinking  of  great  buildings.  He  suggests  that  some  of  our  social 
structures,  spiritual  structures,  if  you  like,  are  sinking  and  coming  out 
of  plumb,  and  there  is  danger  of  their  collapse.  He  proposes  that  the 
British  Government  organize  an  experimental  colony  to  be  managed  by 
engineers — remember,  he  is  an  engineer  and  the  president  of  the 
Engineering  Section  of  the  great  British  Association  for  the  Advance- 
ment of  Science — a  colony  to  be  directed  by  engineers,  to  demonstrate 
how  far  it  is  possible  to  maintain,  say  one  hundred  thousand  people, 
with  all  the  best  of  modern  facilities  of  life,  in  a  state  of  semi-isolation, 
separating  them  from  conditions  that  bring  about  the  "restraints  and 
social  errors  of  modern  civilization." 

It  is  very  interesting  to  note  that  the  recommendation  was  over- 
whelmingly rejected  and  the  great  man  was  given  to  understand  that 
science,  in  one  sense,  has  already  gone  ahead  too  fast,  and  that  the 
spiritual  part  of  man  has  not  kept  up.  One  of  our  American  news- 
papers, a  leading  one,  the  Philadelphia  Public  Ledger,  makes  comment 
on  that  in  these  words : 

"An  ancient  seer,  who  knew  nothing  of  modern  engineering  or  of  the 
achievements  of  science  laid  down  the  rule  that  in  a  successful  society  men 
would  do  justly,  love  mercy,  and  walk  humbly  with  their  God. 

"Every  Utopian  experiment  has  failed  because  it  has  not  stressed  the 
spiritual  side  of  life  with  its  sense  of  social  obligation  and  the  need  of  unselfish- 
ness.  They  have  ignored  the  weaknesses  of  human  nature. 

"If  Professor  'Walker  were  dealing  with  machines,  his  plan  might  succeed. 
Man,  however,  is  not  a  machine.  The  experiment  in  Russia  to  make  a  machine 
out  of  him  is  slowly  but  surely  breaking  down." 

SUPPORT  UNDER  ADVERSITY 

"Man,  know  thyself."  Oh,  that  we  may  know  ourselves  and  know 
that  we  are  children  of  the  Eternal  One,  and  that  this  body  is  a  second- 
ary creation,  a  later  construction,  and  that  it  is  not  the  only  thing 
about  man,  nor  the  principal  thing,  for  the  body  will  die — though 
surely  it  shall  be  resurrected — but  the  spirit  can  not  die,  and  the  spirit 
is  really  the  man. 

Now,  what  is  my  religion  doing  for  me  under  these  conditions  ? 
It  should  be  a  support.  It  should  show  me  that  notwithstanding  these 
stresses  and  seemingly  unfavorable  forces  there  is  purpose  and  plan 
in  the  experiences  through  which  the  human  race  is  passing.  It  should 
teach  me  to  be  more  considerate  because  of  the  suffering  about  me,  in 
which  perhaps  I  share,  and  to  be  more  willing  to  help.    It  should 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


teach  me  to  be  more  tolerant,  to  be  kind,  to  be  kinder  than  I  have  been, 
and  not  to  fight  complainingly  against  the  conditions  that  befall.  You 
know  that  winter  is  coming  by  and  by.  Will  you  grumble  and  complain 
because  of  the  ice  and  snow?  It  has  to  come,  and  the  wise  man  will 
prepare  for  it. 

LIBERALITY  TOWARD  OTHERS 

My  religion  ought  to  teach  me  to  have  greater  respect  for  my 
fellows,  and  to  realize  that  this  is  the  day  of  which  the  prophets  have 
spoken,  when  all  that  can  be  shaken  in  the  institutions  of  men  shall  be 
shaken.  Are  they  not  shaking  all  about  us?  Have  your  banks  not 
shaken  and  fallen?  Have  your  theories  of  philosophy  not  been  found 
faulty?  Have  the  conjectures  of  scientific  men  not  been  reversed, 
changed,  and  in  some  instances  shaken  to  pieces?  Only  that  which 
has  been  established  by  a  power  greater  than  man  shall  endure. 

My  religion  ought  to  teach  me  to  regard  my  fellow  as  entitled  to 
his  views,  as  well  as  I  am  to  mine,  in  matters  political  as  in  all  else. 
I  believe  in  men  taking  part  in  politics.  We  have  to  do  so  in  order  to 
function  in  government,  even  as  has  been  said.  But  I  say  to  you 
Latter-day  Saints  if-  you,  my  brother,  claim  to  be  a  Republican,  be 
a  straight,  honest  one.  And  if  you,  my  other  brother  claim  to  be  a 
Democrat,  be  a  genuine  Democrat.  I  know  too  many  honorable  Demo- 
crats to  believe  that  all  the  good  is  in  the  Republican  party,  or  the 
reverse.  Some  people  even  say:  "Both  can  not  be  right."  "Oh,  is 
that  so?  Then  if  the  Republicans  are  right  the  Democrats  must  be 
wrong."  Would  the  proposition  stand  analysis?  According  to  that,  if 
the  Democrats  are  good  the  Republicans  are  bad,  out  and  out.  Well 
now,  I  know  good  people  and  I  know  bad  people,  according  to  my 
mode  of  analysis,  in  both  these  parties,  and  I  have  been  led  to  say 
sometimes  that  I  think  each  is  a  little  worse  than — perhaps  I  should  say 
better  than — the  other.  Do  not  think  because  your  neighbor  does  not 
vote  your  ticket  that  he  is  reprobate  and  bound  for  destruction.  Do 
your  duty  as  citizens,  as  I  try  to  do  mine,  and  do  not  feel  that  your 
neighbor  is  not  entitled  to  his  views.  Do  not  let  rancor  and  hatred 
find  a  place  in  your  heart  because  of  political  differences. 

VALUE  OF  OPPOSITION 

Perhaps  no  greater  truth  was  ever  expressed  than  that  revealed 
through  the  prophet  Lehi :  "It  must  needs  be  that  there  is  an  opposition 
in  all  things."  As  it  is  we  sometimes  have  trouble  in  getting  any 
considerable  part  of  our  citizens  to  the  polls,  and  how  many  do  you 
think  would  go  if  we  had  only  one  party  and  one  ticket  in  the  field? 
■There  must  needs  be  opposition.  Let  it  be  honorable  opposition.  Let 
differences  of  opinion  be  held  in  honesty.  Oh,  let  us  be  men,  remem- 
bering our  divine  origin,  and  conducting  ourselves  accordingly. 

May  we  go  hence  encouraged  to  greater  effort,  to  endure  and  to 
meet  what  comes,  in  the  right  spirit,  and  to  serve  the  Lord  our  God 
in  our  actions,  as  we  profess  to  do  according  to  the  words  of  our 
mouths,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


81 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

I  assure  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  it  will  be  an  extreme 
relief  for  me  to  have  this  over  and  to  sit  in  peace  for  the  remainder  of 
this  conference.  I  have  noticed  that  everybody  who  has  sat  close  to  me 
and  been  called  on  has  felt  just  about  as  I  have.  I  trust  that  the  Lord 
will  give  me  strength  to  bear  to  you  a  true  and  honest  testimony  and  to 
say  something  that  may  be  worth  while,  to  encourage  this  congregation 
and  to  encourage  me. 

I  need  encouragement  as  much  as  any  single  member  of  this  Church, 
and  I  thank  God  that  in  the  past  he  has  come  to  my  rescue  when  I 
have  most  needed  his  aid.  I  pray  that  as  the  future  comes  he  will 
never  desert  me  or  desert  you. 

I  have  enjoyed  very  much  the  words  of  this  conference.  I  was 
especially  pleased  with  what  Dr.  Harris  said  this  morning  about  the 
youth  of  Zion.  As  Brother  Hinckley  told  you  this  afternoon,  our  work 
as  mission  presidents  brings  us  into  direct  contact  with  your  sons  and 
your  daughters,  and  like  Dr.  Harris,  I  can  bear  testimony  unto  you 
that  they  are  honest,  true,  sincere  young  people,  and  that  the  destiny  of 
this  work  is  safe  in  their  hands.  I  feel  it.  I  am  sure  of  it.  Of  course 
it  is  our  obligation  to  safeguard  their  growth  and  development  that 
they  may  have  this  faith  that  is  so  necessary,  that  when  they  go  into 
the  world  they  may  go  in  faith;  that  their  lives  may  have  been  pure, 
so  that  they  may  be  exemplary  and  be  a  light  to  the  world. 

The  results  of  their  efforts  depend  very  largely  upon  the  example 
which  they  set.  It  matters  not  so  much  what  their  learning  may  be. 
God  will  give  them  words  when  the  time  comes,  if  they  are  faithful, 
so  that  they  may  answer  questions  and  preach  sermons  that  will  touch 
the  hearts  of  the  people  with  whom  they  come  in  contact.  Not  all 
people  are  touched  by  the  same  thing.  Not  all  people  can  be  approached 
by  the  same  missionary.  So  that  it  takes  them  all  to  make  a  world ; 
it  takes  them  all  to  make  successful  campaigns  in  the  mission  field. 

Sometimes  we  have  missionaries  come  to  us  and  we  wonder  where 
we  will  place  them  and  what  they  will  do,  only  to  find,  after  they  have 
been  in  the  field  a  short  time,  that  their  very  humility  makes  them  our 
most  useful  instruments.  They  find  people  that  other  more  educated, 
more  illustrious,  perhaps,  missionaries  would  never  touch;  and  after 
all,  this  Gospel  is  for  the  meek  and  the  lowly,  the  humble  and  the  poor ; 
not,  of  course  excepting  the  rich  if  they  desire  its  benefits  and  blessings. 

We  have  heard  of  the  depression.  Wle  feel  it  in  the  mission  field. 
I  have  nothing  but  honor  and  respect  for  the  fathers  and  the  mothers 
of  our  missionaries,  who  are  undergoing  the  sacrifice,  the  deprivation 
that  is  sometimes  necessary  to  keep  their  sons  and  daughters  in  the 
mission  field.  They  are  heroes,  these  mothers  and  fathers.  They  have 
faith,  and  it  is  that  faith  that  has  made  it  possible  for  their  sons  and 
daughters  to  go  into  the  field  and  preach  and  proselyte  as  they  do.  I 
could  give  you  many  illustrations  of  the  sacrifice  that  has  been  necessary 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


but  that  would  perhaps  be  out  of  place  at  this  time.  But  the  parents 
are  undergoing  sacrifice,  and  I  want  those  whose  boys  are  in  our  mission 
field  to  understand  that  we  appreciate  that  service  to  the  very  fullest 
and  are  grateful  for  it. 

These  boys  and  girls  are  carrying  to  the  world  a  testimony  of  the 
Gospel.  It  is  the  greatest  thing  in  the  world.  If  it  could  be  given  to 
the  world  so  they  would  all  understand  it  our  troubles  would  soon 
disappear.    That  testimony  we  are  trying  to  give  them. 

The  scripture  has  been  read  here  in  your  hearing  today,  that 
eternal  life  consists  in  knowing  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  and  Jesus 
Christ  whom  he  has  sent.  If  we  knew  God  we  would  serve  him,  and 
serving  him  we  would  gain  eternal  life.  It  is  just  as  sure  and  certain  as 
that  dawn  follows  darkness.  It  is  upon  the  testimony  of  God  that 
we  found  our  work.  Christ  asked  his  disciples,  after  he  had  lived 
and  labored  among  them  : 

"Whom  do  men  say  that  I  the  Son  of  man  am?" 

And  in  all  his  following  there  was  perhaps  only  Peter  that  gave 
the  answer  that  he  desired  : 

"Thou  are  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God. 

"And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  him,  Blessed  art  thou,  Simon  Barjona: 
for  flesh  and  Mood  hath  not  revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in 
heaven.  *  *  *  And  upon  this  rock  I  will  build  my  church." 

What  was  it  that  was  revealed  to  Peter?  It  was  the  identity  of 
Christ  as  the  Son  of  God  the  Father.  He  had  been  in  their  midst  his 
lifetime,  and  there  was  none,  perhaps,  outside  of  Peter,  that  really- 
realized  and  appreciated  who  he  was ;  and  Peter,  during  most  of  his 
association  with  Christ,  had  little  idea  of  his  real  personality.  "Upon 
this  rock  I  will  build  my  church" — upon  the  testimony  that  Christ  is 
the  Son  of  God,  "I  will  build  my  church,"  is  the  way  I  like  to  interpret 
that. 

When  the  time  came  that  Christ's  church  should  be  established 
among  the  Nephite  people,  which  was  far  from  its  native  home,  Christ 
himself  came  down  among  them  and  ministered  unto  them.  He  showed 
them  his  personality,  his  being,  and  when  he  left  they  had  a  testimony 
that  Christ  was  and  is  the  Son  of  the  living  God.  They  passed  through 
many  vicissitudes,  just  as  did  our  brethren  on  the  eastern  continent,  and 
the  testimony  of  Christ  passed  from  them. 

The  time  came  when  it  was  necessary  again  to  restore  the  Gospel 
to  the  earth,  and  the  most  important  and  all-embracing  thing  that  hap- 
pened was  a  revelation  to  Joseph  Smith  of  God  the  Father  and  Jesus 
Christ.  "Upon  this  rock  will  I  build  my  church,"  upon  the  testimony 
of  God  and  Christ,  his  Son. 

That  is  the  testimony  that  your  sons  and  daughters  are  carrying 
to  the  world.  That,  to  me,  is  the  most  important  testimony  that  we 
have  to  give  to  the  world,  that  Christ  and  God  are  real,  actual  person- 
alities, who  have  an  interest  in  us  and  in  our  well-being.    If  we  will 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IV1NS 


85 


adhere  to  that  testimony  and  preach  it  boldly  to  the  world — we  do  not 
have  to  do  it  in  a  manner  that  will  offend,  of  course,  but  we  must  not 
fear  to  give  that  testimony  when  we  go  out — I  am  sure  that  in  the 
end  our  purposes  will  be  accomplished,  that  this  work  will  prevail,  that 
the  great  and  glorious  things  that  have  been  predicted  of  it  will  come  to 
pass. 

May  God  grant  this  and  carry  us  through  safely,  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

"Doxology"  was  sung  by  the  congregation,  after  which  Elder  Joseph 
Reece,  Patriarch,  Hollywood  Stake,  pronounced  the  benediction. 
The  Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  October  9. 


THIRD  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

Sunday  morning,  October  9.  Every  seat  in  the  great  auditorium 
and  galleries  of  the  Tabernacle  was  taken,  and  every  available  space 
in  the  aisles  was  occupied  before  ten  o'clock.  Hundreds  of  people  who 
were  unable  to  find  accommodation  in  the  Tabernacle  occupied  the  large 
Assembly  Hall  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds,  where  they  listened  to  the 
proceedings  as  they  were  broadcast  by  radio. 

As  a  prelude  to  the  fifth  session  of  the  Conference  the  following 
program  of  choral  and  organ  music  was  rendered  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  and  Organ  and  broadcast  by  radio  from  coast  to  coast  over  the 
Columbia  Broadcasting  System,  through  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake 
City: 

"Arise,  O  glorious  Zion" — Choir. 

"To  Thee,  O  Country" — Chaminade  Chorus. 

"Kol  Nidre"  (traditional  Hebrew  melody) — Organ. 

"Choral  Cluster"  (Bach) — Choir. 

"Minuet"  (Boellman)—  Organ. 

"O  be  gracious"  (from  "St.  Paul" — Mendelssohn) — Choir. 
"Pilgrims  Chorus"  (Tannhauser — Wagner) — Organ. 
"I  praise  thee,  O  Lord"  ("St.  Paul" — Mendelssohn) — Choir. 
The  Choir  was  directed  by  Anthony  C.  Lund,  with  Edward  P. 
Kimball  at  the  Organ.    Organ  solos  by  Frank  W.  Asper. 

At  the  close  of  the  broadcast  President  Anthony  W.  Ivins  read 
the  following  telegram  which  he  had  received  from  President  Heber  J. 
Grant : 

"Sincerely  trust  you  have  had  wonderful  Conference,  as  I  know  you  have. 
We  will  participate  with  you  first  half  hour  this  morning.  Ask  Professor  Lund 
to  have  opening  hymn  this  morning  'An  angel  from  on  high,'  next  'Let  the 
mountains  shout  for  joy.'  Again  our  love  and  greetings  to  the  Saints  and  my 
blessings  upon  the  people  everywhere.  I 

Heber  J.  Grant." 

A  duet  and  chorus,  "An  angel  from  on  high,"  was  rendered  by 
Charles  Martin  and  Ida  Hepworth,  and  the  Tabernacle  Choir. 

Elder  Wiilliam  H.  Haigh,  Patriarch,  Cottonwood  Stake,  offered  the 
'  opening  prayer. 

The  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Let  the  mountains  shout  for  joy." 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  my  heart  is  full  of  thanks  to  my  Heavenly 
Father  for  this  occasion.  "What  hath  God  wrought !"  came  to  my  mind 
as  T  was  sitting  here  upon  the  stand,  knowing  that  from  this  remarkable 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT  85 

building  there  went  to  all  the  world  a  program  that  would  do  honor  to 
any  people,  for  there  is  no  civilized  people  in  the  world  that  could  put 
a  more  religious,  a  more  fervent  program  upon  the  air,  praising  God 
the  Eternal  Father. 

THE  SAINTS  IN  WASHINGTON 

First,  I  want  to  extend  the  greetings  of  the  brethren  and  sisters 
and  your  sons  and  daughters  at  Washington  to  the  people  of  this 
conference.  They  no  doubt  are  listening  in  to  the  program  of  this  day. 
I  can  imagine  seeing  five  or  six  hundred  of  them  in  the  hall,  listening 
to  every  word,  and  enjoying  the  remarkable  musical  exercise  that  was 
given  here  this  morning. 

I  want  to  assure  the  fathers  and  mothers  of  the  boys  and  girls  that 
are  in  Washington  that  they  are  as  deeply  interested  in  the  welfare  of 
the  Church  and  are  studying  the  principles  of  the  Church,  as  well  as  if 
they  were  living  in  any  community  within  the  state  of  Utah.  I  think 
that  the  percentage  of  our  young  people  and  people  in  general  in 
Washington  who  attend  the  services  is  as  great  if  not  greater  than  in  any 
other  place  in  the  United  States. 

TESTIMONY  THROUGH  PRAYER 

I  thought  this  morning  that  I  would  refer  to  the  question  of 
prayer,  for  it  is  so  ivital  to  a  man  and  woman,  no  matter  what  position 
they  hold,  in  order  that  they  may  maintain  a  testimony,  if  they  have  one, 
of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ;  and  if  they  haven't  yet  that  testimony, 
1  know  of  no  better  way  in  all  the  world  to  receive  it  than  to  plead  with 
our  Heavenly  Father  that  it  may  be  granted  unto  them.  I  know 
whereof  I  speak,  because  it  was  only  through  the  humiliation  of  my 
soul  and  the  prayers  ascending  to  my  God,  at  the  request  of  the  mother 
who  gave  me  birth,  that  I  received  a  testimony  that  this  is  God's  work ; 
and  every  prediction  made  by  the  servants  of  God  in  any  age  since  it 
was  established  upon  this  earth,  shall  be  fulfilled. 

I  often  think,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  of  the  hymn  that  we  so 
often  sing: 

Prayer  is  the  soul's  sincere  desire, 

Uttered  or  unexpressed ; 
The  motion  of  a  hidden  fire 

That  trembles  in  the  breast. 

Prayer  is  the  burden  of  a  sigh, 

The  falling  of  a  tear, 
The  upward  glancing  of  an  eye, 

When  none  but  God  is  near. 

Prayer  is  the  simplest  form  of  speech 

That  infant  lips  can  try; 
Prayer,  the  sublimest  strains  that  reach 

The  Majesty  on  high. 

Prayer  is  the  Christian's  vital  breath, 

The  Christian's  native  air; 
His  watchword  at  the  gates  of  death; 

He  enters  heav'n  with  prayer. 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Prayer  is  the  contrite  sinner's  voice, 

Returning  from  his  ways, 
While  angels  in  their  songs  rejoice, 

And  cry,  Behold,  he  prays. 

The  Saints  in  prayer  appear  as  one 

In  word  and  deed  and  mind, 
While  with  the  Father  and  the  Son 

Their  fellowship  they  find. 

Nor  prayer  is  made  on  earth  alone ; 

The  Holy  Spirit  pleads, 
And  Jesus  on  the  Father's  throne, 

For  sinners  intercedes. 

I  think  the  American  people,  and  perhaps  the  peoples  of  the  great 
cities  of  the  countries  of  the  world,  do  not  recognize  the  full  benefit 
that  prayer  gives  to  the  man  or  woman  or  soul  that  believes  in  God. 

THE  EXPERIENCE  OF  GANDHI 

I  was  rather  interested,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  what  may  prove 
to  be  the  last  words  uttered  by  Gandhi.  He  came  from  far-off  India 
to  London,  England,  to  plead  with  the  English  government  to  give 
his  people,  as  he  called  them,  more  liberty,  more  assistance,  and  help 
the  people  in  that  far-off  land  to  reach  and  learn,  if  possible,  the  things 
of  God  and  what  he  desires  in  this  world.  The  Indian  leader  makes 
this  statement: 

"Prayer  has  saved  my  life.  Without  it  I  should  have  been  a  lunatic  long 
ago.  I  have  had  my  share  of  the  bitterest  public  and  private  experiences.  They 
threw  me  into  temporary  despair.  If  I  was  able  to  get  rid  of  that  despair  it 
was  because  of  prayer.  Prayer  has  been  part  of  my  life,  as  truth  has  been. 
Prayer  came  out  of  sheer  necessity.  I  found  myself  in  a  plight  where  I  could 
not  possibly  be  happy  without  prayer.  The  more  my  faith  in  God  increased, 
the  more  irresistible  became  the  yearnings  for  iprayer.  Life  seemed  to  be  dull 
and  vacant  without  it.  I  had  attended  the  Christian  religious  services  in  South 
Africa,  but  they  failed  to  grip  me.  My  Christian  friends  supplicated  God,  but 
I  icould  not  do  so.  I  failed  grievously.  I  started  with  a  disbelief  in  God  and 
prayer,  and  until  at  la  late  stage  in  life  I  did  not  feel  anything  like  a  boy  in  life. 
At  that  stage  I  felt  that  as  food  was  indispensable  to  the  body,  so  was  prayer 
indispensable  for  the  soul.  !  In  fact,  food  for  the  body  is  not  so  necessary  as 
prayer  for  the  soul,  for  starvation  is  often  necessary  in  order  to  keep  the  body 
in  health ;  but  there  is  no  such  thing  as  prayer  starvation.  You  cannot  possibly 
have  a  surfeit  of  prayer." 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  from  every  word  of  that  strange 
man  it  seems  to  me  that  the  people  over  whom  he  has  so  wonderful  a 
power,  the  peoples  of  India,  are  almost  ready  to  receive  the  teachings 
of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Every  Latter-day  Saint  knows  that  it 
is  impossible  for  a  man  or  a  woman  to  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  the  living 
God  without  supplication  to  him,  asking  him  to  forgive  his  short- 
comings and  to  assist  him  in  his  every-day  walk  of  life.  I  want  to 
acknowledge  at  this  time  that  it  was  that  mother  of  mine  who  taught 
me  the  lesson  that  it  was  necessary,  if  I  ever  expected  to  receive  the 
divine  blessings  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  to  learn  to  supplicate  him  for 
them ;  and  thank  God  I  have  followed  it  out. 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


87 


THE  CONDITION,  RELIGIOUSLY 

What  is  the  condition  of  the  world  today?  Let  me  not  say,  although 
I  think  I  know.  I  mean  the  condition  of  the  world  today  as  far  as 
religion  is  concerned,  so  far  as  their  belief  in  God  is  concerned.  It  is 
but  a  few  years  ago  that  Brother  Widtsoe  and  |I  visited  Europe.  The 
day  that  we  were  in  Stockholm  a  great  convention  was  held  of  the 
Christian  church.  I  was  very  much  interested  in  a  statement  that  was 
made  by  Dr.  Law  of  Brooklyn,  and  I  think  perhaps  it  would  be  proper 
for  me  to  read  it  at  this  time.  It  may  be  enlightening  to  you,  and  I 
hope  also  to  the  good  peoples  of  America  and  the  world,  for  I  think 
there  is  a  great  deal  of  truth  in  what  the  doctor  said  : 

"The  Christian  church  has  no  message  today  for  a  dying  world.  As  a  matter 
of  fact,  the  Christian  church  is  preaching  many  gospels,  and  the  result  is  confusion 
and  failure,"  said  the  Rev.  Dr.  Curtis  Lee  Law  of  Brooklyn,  in  addressing  the 
Baptist  World  Conference  at  Stockholm.  "Denominations  are  being  rent  asunder 
today,"  he  said,  "and  those  who  have  long  been  brethren  are  in  warring  camps, 
contending  not  over  non-essentials  but  also  over  the  very  foundation  principles  of 
Christianity.  If  this  theological  war  is  fought  to  a  finish,"  he  said,  "at  least  the 
present  generation  will  perish  for  lack  of  vision. 

"Believing  in  the  sincerity  and  high  moral  character  of  these  warring  the- 
ologians," he  said,  "I  beg  of  them,  in  the  name  of  Christ  and  perishing  humanity, 
that  they  will  quietly,  lovingly,  prayerfully,  gather  about  the  table,  with  God's 
book  before  them,  and  let  that  settle  every  disputed  question.  That  book  is  the 
ultimate  ground  for  authority."    So  says  the  renowned  doctor. 

THE  POWER  OF  PRAYER  RECOGNIZED 

Our  government,  in  its  beginning,  recognized  the  power  of  prayer, 
for  in  the  first  gathering  of  Congress,  the  Senate  and  the  House,  prayer 
was  offered  before  a  thing  was  undertaken  in  the  way  of  legislation. 
Among  those  wonderful  men  who  met  at  Carpenter  Hall  on  September 
5th,  1774,  were  some  of  the  greatest  Americans,  men  who  were  perfectly 
willing  to  give  their  lives  for  their  country.  They  bowed  in  prayer, 
and  more  than  half  of  them  knelt  when  the  prayer  was  being  offered. 

The  time  was,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  you  could  go  from  one 
end  of  the  country  to  the  other  and  there  was  prayer  in  almost  every 
home,  no  matter  what  denomination  the  people  belonged  to.  It  is  just 
the  reverse  today.  I  plead  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  plead 
with  you  today,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  you  shall 
not  forget  to  appeal  to  the  Father  in  heaven,  through  the  Master,  for 
guidance  every  day  of  your  life.  America  is  a  Christian  nation  and 
the  great  countries  of  the  world  are  called  Christian  nations.  Are  we 
so  living  and  are  they  showing  by  their  acts  and  by  their  lives  that 
they  believe  in  the  teachings  of  the  Master? 

I  believe  that  every  prediction  that  has  been  made  in  relation  to 
the  destiny  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  revealed  in  this  age,  shall 
be  fulfilled.  I  am  proud,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  one  of  those 
who  preach  the  Gospel  at  least  by  their  lives,  and  that  is  a  wonderful 
way  to  preach  it.  I  thank  the  mother  that  gave  me  birth  that  she 
instilled  those  principles  into  my  very  soul. 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


May  God's  blessings  ever  be  with  his  people.  May  his  choicest 
blessings  be  over  the  nation,  and  may  I  also  add,  over  all  the  civilized 
nations  of  the  world,  and  may  they  humble  themselves  and  live  according 
to  the  teachings  of  the  Master ;  and  if  it  were  done — and  I  might  add, 
it  must  be  done  before  there  shall  be  peace  in  the  world. 

God  bless  you  all,  I  ask,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  assure  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  most  humble 
in  standing  here  before  this  vast  congregation  and  as  I  reflect 
upon  the  great  miracle  that  we  have  witnessed  this  jmorning,  in  the 
broadcast  from  this  ibuilding,  which  has  gone  out  over  the  world.  I 
feel  grateful  for  every  blessing  that  comes  to  |me  and  to  us,  as  members 
of  the  Church,  through  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  believe  in 
peace.   We  preach  peace.   I  hope  we  are  living  (in  peace. 

men's  hearts  failing  them 

After  listening  to  the  sayings  of  some  of  the  world's  great  leaders 
and  thinkers,  as  their  expressions  have  been  presented  by  some  of  the 
speakers  at  this  conference,  I  am  impressed  -with  the  fact  that  the  hearts 
of  men  are  failing  them.  I  think  that  is  quite  evident.  We  see  it  in 
publications  in  the  newspapers  and  magazines  and  in  the  expressions 
of  the  people.  The  hearts  of  men  are  failing  them.  Fear  has  come 
upon  the  people  of  the  earth. 

responsibility  for  the  depression 

One  of  the  brethren  yesterday  stated  that  practically  every  speaker 
up  to  that  time  said  something  about  the  depression.  I  suppose  I  will 
not  be  out  of  place  if  I  too  say  something  about  it.  I  would  like  to  iplace 
the  blame  for  it  where  it  belongs.  It  is  so  easy  for  humankind  to  blame 
somebody  else  for  their  own  mistakes,  and  so  easy  for  us,  because  of 
our  human  nature,  to  take  credit  when  the  thing  that  is  accomplished  is 
something  that  pleases  and  benefits.  But  we  never  want  to  shoulder 
a  responsibility  for  our  mistakes  that  do  not  please,  and  so  we  endeavor 
to  place  that  kind  of  responsibility  somewhere  else  and  on  others. 

When  the  children  of  Israel  came  out  of  Egypt  they  were  led  by 
Moses  as  he  was  directed  of  the  Lord.  Constantly  they  murmured 
against  him  when  they  found  themselves  confronting  difficulties,  and 
wanted  to  go  back  to  Egypt  to  their  tasks  and  to  their  tribulation. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  shoulder  our  own  responsibilities, 
and  not  endeavor  to  place  them  somewhere  else.  The  responsibility 
for  this  depression  is  partly  mine ;  it  is  partly  yours.  It  is  the  fault  of 
the  farmer,  of  the  merchant,  of  the  educator,  the  business  man,  the 
professional  man — in  fact,  men  in  all  walks  of  life.  That  is  where  the 
responsibility  belongs.    And  why?    Because  of  a  failure  to  heed  the 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  89 


commandments  of  God.  I  say  it  is  partly  mine.  It  is  mine  insofar  as 
I  may  have  failed  to  heed  the  commandments.  It  is  mine  wherein  I 
may  have  failed  to  follow  the  counsels  that  have  been  given  from  this 
pulpit  for  many  years.  It  is  your  fault  because  you  too,  perhaps,  have 
failed  to  heed  those  counsels.  It  is  the  fault  of  the  whole  world,  be- 
cause they  have  refused  to  hear  the  word  of  God,  to  heed  the  Warnings 
that  have  come  from  him,  not  only  through  ancient  prophets  and  apostles 
but  in  the  words  that  have  been  declared  from  time  to  time  by  modern 
prophets. 

HAVE  FORSAKEN  GOD 

The  world  today  is  full  of  selfishness,  greed,  the  desire  to  possess. 
For  many  years  we  have  been  living  extravagantly.  Our  wants  have 
been  supplied — not  our  needs  alone,  but  our  wants — and  we  have  wanted 
much.  Most  of  us  have  been  able  to  obtain  them,  and  now  a  time  comes 
when  we  find  ourselves  somewhat  curtailed,  hedged  around  about,  not 
having  so  many  privileges,  and  our  desires  are  not  30  fully  granted, 
and  so  we  begin  to  complain.  But  we  should  get  rid  of  our  selfishness 
and  greed,  our  desire  to  possess  that  which  is  beyond  the  needs  and 
blessings  which  are  really  ours. 

It  is  time  for  men  to  humble  themselves,  to  repent  and  seek  the 
Lord.  I  think  the  general  theme  of  this  conference  has  been  that  of 
repentance.  I  think  it  is  most  timely.  I  have  been  crying  repentance 
up  and  down  through  the  stakes  of  Zion  for  years.   I  think  it  is  needed. 

Depression  has  come  because  we  have  forsaken  God.  Now,  I  am 
not  speaking  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  when  I  say  that.  I  make  this 
saying  have  general  application.  The  people  of  this  nation,  and  the 
people  of  other  nations,  have  forsaken  the  Lord.  We  have  violated 
his  laws.  We  have  failed  to  hearken  to  his  promises.  We  have  not 
considered  ,that  we  were  under  obligation  to  keep  his  commandments, 
and  the  laws  of  the  land  as  well  as  the  laws  of  God  are  not  respected. 
The  Sabbath  day  has  become  a  day  of  pleasure,  a  day  of  boisterous 
conduct,  a  day  in  which  the  worship  of  God  has  departed,  and  the 
worship  of  pleasure  has  ,taken  its  place.  I  am  sorry  to  say  that  many 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  guilty  of  this.    We  should  repent. 

Now,  I  am  going  to  speak  plainly.  I  have  spoken  plainly  about 
this.  I  think  it  is  a  disgrace  to  our  cities  and  to  our  state  when  play- 
grounds in  this  city  and  other  cities  are  dedicated  by  city  officials  on 
the  Sabbath  day,  and  this  day  desecrated  by  ball  games  and  other 
amusements.  I  think  it  is  a  disgrace  to'  the  state  when  the  state  fair 
is  opened  on  the  Sabbath  day.  Now,  this  is  not  done  because  of  the 
love  of  God.  It  isn't  because  we  have  in  our  hearts  the  love  of  him 
and  a  desire  to  keep  his  commandments  that  such  has  taken  place. 
It  is  because  of  greed,  the  love  of  money,  and  because  we  have  drifted 
from  the  truth,  from  the  spirit  of  humility,  and  from  those  com- 
mandments which  have  been  given  to  us  for  our  eternal  guidance.  The 
Lord  has  spoken.  He  has  spoken  in  these  days  and  he  has  spoken  in 
times  of  old.  We  should  profit  by  the  experiences  of  others.   We  ought 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  profit  by  the  examples  that  have  been  set  before  us  in  ancient  days, 
but  it  seems  we  will  not  do  it. 

THE  WARNING  VOICE 

Now,  we  hear  occasionally  somebody  make  the  statement  that 
tilings  are  as  bad  as  they  could  be,  that  they  could  not  be  worse.  I 
want  to>  tell  you  they  could  be  worse,  a  great  deal  worse.  If  I  read  the 
signs  of  the  times  we  have  not  suffered  yet  as  much  as  we  are  going 
to  suffer,  unless  we  repent. 

From  this  stand  men  have  prophesied  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
for  many  decades.  President  Brigham  Young,  President  John  Taylor, 
President  Wilford  Woodruff,  and  others  of  our  leading  brethren  and 
presidents  of  the  Church,  have  raised  the  warning  yoice.  They  have 
called  attention  to  these  present  conditions.  The  Lord  has  also  pro- 
phesied of  these  things,  and  they  have  been  mentioned  by  ancient  seers 
and  prophets.  We  have  had  ample  warning.  We  have  been  told  of  the 
calamities  that  are  coming.  We  have  been  taught  how  we  might  avoid 
them,  how  we  might  be  protected,  if  we  would  only  hear  the  counsels 
that  come  to  us,  heed  the  testimony  of  truth.  If  we  fail,  we  cannot 
escape. 

FULFILMENT  OF  PROPHECIES 

I  sat  in  this  building  at  a  general  conference  of  the  Church  many 
years  ago,  in  the  days  of  President  Wilford  Woodruff,  when  he  made 
a  statement  that  I  happen  to  have  with  me.  Let  me  read  it.  President 
Wilford  Woodruff  was  filled  with  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  This  hap- 
pened on  the  4th  day  of  October,  in  the  year  1896.  It  was  not  the  first 
time  he  had  mentioned  this  matter,  for  he  had  mentioned  it  in  1893, 
and  it  became  a  theme  in  which  he  was  very  much  interested  and  to 
which  he  gave  expression  in  each,  of  his  discourses,  practically,  until 
the  time  of  his  death.    These  are  his  words : 

"The  revelations  that  are  in  the  Bible,  the  predictions  of  the  patriarchs  and 
prophets  who  saw  lb}'  vision  and  revelation  the  last  dispensation  and  fulness  of 
times,  plainly  tell  us  what  is  to  come  to  pass.  The  49th  chapter  of  Tsaiah  is 
having  its  fulfilment.  I  have  often  said  in  my  preachings,  if  the  world  want  to 
know  what  is  coming  to  (pass,  let  them  read  the  revelations  of  St.  John;  read  of 
the  judgments  of  God  that  are  going  to  overtake  the  world  in  the  last  dispensation  ; 
read  the  papers  and  see  what  is  taking  place  in  our  own  nation  and  in  the  nations 
of  ithe  earth,  and  what  does  it  all  mean?  It  means  the  commencement  of  the 
fulfilment  of  [what  the  prophets  pf  iGod  have  predicted.  In  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  there  are  many  revelations  given  through  the  mouth  of  the  Prophet  of 
God.  These  revelations  will  all  have  their  fulfilment,  as  the  Lord  lives,  and  no 
power  can  hinder  it.  In  one  of  the  revelations  the  Lord  told  Joseph  Smith  : 

"  'Behold,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  the  angels  are  crying  unto  the  Lord  day  and 
night,  who  are  ready  and  waiting  to  be  sent  forth  to  reap  down  the  fields : 

"  'But  the  Lord  saith  unto  them.  Pluck  not  up  the  tares  while  the  blade  is 
yet  tender  (for  verily  your  faith  is  weak),  lest  you  destroy  the  wheat  also. 

1  'Therefore  let  the  wheat  and  the  tares  grow  together  until  the  harvest  is 
fully  ripe ;  then  ye  shall  first  gather  out  the  wheat  from  among  the  tares,  and 
after  the  gathering  of  the  (wheat,  behold  and  lo,  the  tares  are  bound  in  bundles, 
and  the  field  remaineth  to  be  burned,' 


ELDER  JOSEPH   FIELDING   SMITH  91 


"I  want  to  bear  testimony  to  this  congregation,  and  to  the  heavens  and  the 
earth,  that  the  day  is  come  ,when  those  angels  are  privileged  to  go  forth  and 
commence  theirwork.  They  are  laboring  in  the  United  States  of  America;  they 
are  laboring  among  the  nations  of  the  earth;  and  they  will  continue.  We  need 
not  marvel  or  ,wonder  at  anything  that  is  transpiring  in  the  earth.  The  world 
do  not  comprehend  the  revelations  of  God.  They  did  not  in  the  days  of  the  Jews ; 
yet  all  that  the  prophets  had  spoken  concerning  them  came  to  pass.  So  in  our 
day  these  things  will  come  to  pass.  I  heard  the  Prophet  Joseph  bear  his  testimony 
to  these  events  that  would  transpire  in  the  earth.  *  *  *  We  cannot  draw  a  veil 
over  the  events  that  await  this  generation.  No  man  that  is  inspired  by  the 
Spirit  and  power  of  God  can  close  his  ears,  his  eyes,  or  his  lips,  to  these  things. 
*  *  *  There  are  many  events  before  us  and  at  our  door,  and  they  follow  each 
other  in  quick  succession.  No  power  on  earth  or  under  the  earth  can  stay  the 
fulfilment  of  these  things.  You  can  hardly  see  them  with  your  eyes,  hear  them 
with  your  tears,  and  feel  them  with  your  spirits.  And  when  these  strange  things 
take  place,  no  man  should  'marvel  and  wonder  at  them,  because  they  are  in  the 
great  program.  They  have  been  decreed  by  Almighty  God,  and  these  things  are 
only  the  beginning  of  sorrows." 

THE  SIGNS  OF  THE  TIMES 

On  another  occasion  President  Wilford  Woodruff  said : 

"What  are  the  signs  of  the  times?  Do  the  Liatter-day  Saints  comprehend 
them  ?  This  is  a  fast  age.  The  Lord  is  going  to  cut  his  work  short  in  righteous- 
ness. Read  these  revelations,  for  they  contain  the  history  of  what  is  going  to  pass 
in  the  earth." 

He  then  quoted  the  parable  of  the  Wheat  and  the  Tares,  and  con- 
tinued : 

"What  is  the  matter  with  the  world  today?  What  has  created  this  change 
that  we  see  coming  over  the  world?  Why  these  terrible  judgments?  What  is 
the  meaning  of  all  these  mighty  events  that  are  taking  place?  The  meaning  is, 
these  angels  that  have  been  held  for  many  years  in  the  temple  of  our  God  have 
got  their  liberty  to  go  out  and  commence  their  mission  and  their  work  in  the 
earth,  and  they  are  here  today  in  the  earth.  I  feel  bold  in  saying  this  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  There  is  a  meaning  in  these  judgments.  The  word  of  the 
Lord  cannot  fall  unfulfilled.  If  you  want  to  know  <what  is  coming  to  pass,  read 
the  revelations  of  St.  John ;  J-ead  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the  book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants ;  and  these  things  are  at  our  doors.  What  is  the  matter  with  this 
nation?  Thousands  of  men  striking,  mobs  rising  up  and  destroying  property, 
and  tribulation  prevailing!  I  want  to  say  that  you  will  all  find  before  you  are 
many  years  older  that  Utah  is  a  pretty  good  place  to  live  in. 

"So  far  as  temporal  matters  are  concerned,  we  have  got  to  go  to  work  and 
provide  for  ourselves.  The  day  will  come  when,  as  we  have  been  told,  we  shall 
all  see  the  necessity  of  making  our  own  shoes  and  clothing  and  raising  our  own 
food,  and  uniting  together  to  carry  out  the  purposes  of  the  Lord.  We  will  be 
preserved  in  the  mountains  of  Israel  in  the  day  of  God's  judgment.  I  therefore 
say  to  you,  my  brethren  (and  sisters,  prepare  for  that  which  is  to  come." 

BEFORE   HIS  SECOND  COMING 

This  time  of  trouble  has  not  come  yet;  but  it  is  on  the  way.  I 
also  have  here — I  cannot  take  time  to  read  it — a  statement  from  Pres- 
ident John  Taylor,  in  which  he  bears  witness  to  these  things,  and  to 
the  sayings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  there  shall  be  bloodshed 
and  trouble  in  this  land  beyond  anything  that  we  have  yet  seen,  because 
of  the  wickedness  of  the  people.  Do  not  think  that  we  have  reached 
a  condition  where  things  could  not  be  worse.    Unless  there  is  re- 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


pentance  they  will  be  worse.  And  so  I  cry  repentance  to  this  people, 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  to  the  people  of  this  nation,  and  to  the  nations 
of  the  earth  everywhere. 

In  conclusion  I  give  you  this  to  think  about,  from  the  words  of 
our  Lord,  written  in  regard  to  the  times  in  which  we  are  living,  the 
times  preceding  his  second  coming.  It  is  found  in  the  twenty-first 
chapter  of  Luke. 

"Heaven  and  earth  shall  pass  away :  but  ray  words  shall  not  pass  away. 

"And  take  heed  to  yourselves,  lest  at  any  time  your  hearts  be  overcharged 
with  surfeiting,  and  drunkenness,  and  cares  of  this  life,  and  so  that  day  come 
upon  you  unawares. 

"For  as  a  snare  shall  it  come  on  all  them  that  dwell  on  the  face  of  the  whole 
earth. 

"Watch  ye  therefore,  and  pray  always,  that  ye  may  be  accounted  worthy  to 
escape  all  these  things  that  shall  come  to  pass,  and  to  stand  before  the  Son  of  man." 

This  is  a  good  thing  for  us  to  think  about  as  members  of  the 
Church,  and  I  read  this  warning  to  us.  May  the  Lord  guide  us,  and 
may  we  repent.  May  we  keep  his  commandments  and  walk  in  holiness, 
I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

The  Lord  says  concerning  the  missionaries  and  all  those  who  are 
engaged  in  his  service : 

"Verily  I  say,  jnen  should  be  anxiously  engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and  do  many 
things  of  their  own  free  will,  and  bring  to  pass  much  righteousness ;  for  the  power 
is  in  them." 

We  cannot  sufficiently  appreciate  the  tremendous  importance  of 
this  declaration.  What  power  is  in  them  ?  It  is  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  sent  down  from  heaven,  by  which  the  missionaries  work.  "For 
when  a  man  speaketh  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  carrieth  it  unto  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men." 

The  missionaries  are  fellow  servants  with  angels/ — they  are  workers 
together  with  God  and  Christ  for  the  salvation  of  souls.  "So  nigh  is 
grandeur  to  our  dust,  so  near  is  God  to  man." 

Three  or  four  years  ago  I  received  a  letter  from  a  man  who  with 
his  family  has  written  his  name  high  on  the  roll  of  Church  workers  at 
home  and  abroad.    I  quote  from  his  letter : 

"The  Southern  people  are  my  people.  I  know  them.  I  am  of  them.  As  a 
family  we  can  never  repay  the  Church  for  the  two  weeks  labor  Elder  John  K. 
Lemon  performed  in  our  community,  in  the  autumn  of  1898.  From  this  small 
beginning  twelve  of  our  family  'became  members  of  the  Church — I  am  referring 
to  imy  father's  family  only — and  three  of  his  sons  have  been  honored  with 
approximately  ten  years  of  missionary  service  in  the  Southern  states,  i  The 
members  who  have  associated  themselves  with  the  Church  through  their  efforts, 
I  have  no  record  of,  but  in  my  weak  way,  and  handicapped  to  a  great  extent, 
one  hundred  and  five  people  have  received  baptism  at  my  hands.  There  is  no 
way  for  me  to  know  the  number  brought  into  the  Church  through  the  missionary 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


93 


labors  of  my  two  brothers.  The  only  reason  I  refer  to  this  is  to  call  your 
attention  to  the  apparently  jendless  chain  system  set  in  operation  through  the 
presentation  of  Mormonism  to  one  family.  The  thought  never  occurred  to  Elder 
Lemon  that  such  a  body  of  recruits  could  be  assembled  in  thirty  years,  counting 
those  I  know  to  ihave  embraced  the  Gospel  directly  through  my  father's  and 
mother's  .family.  All  of  the  ten  children  are  parents  of  from  two  to  eleven, 
and  the  majority  of  the  children  are  Latter-day  Saints.  Elder  Lemon  went 
hungry  in  our  community,  but  thirty  years  later  the  brief  review  above  shows 
that  hundreds  have  been  fed  the  bread  of  life  on  account  of  the  seed  of  truth 
planted  deeply  in  my  father's  heart.  I  wish  it  were  possible  to  have  every  young 
man  see,  as  I  do,  the  far-reaching  influence  and  probable  results  of  one  man's 
labors. 

"I  am  happy  in  the  knowledge  that  my  father  and  mother  have  been  able  to 
leave  this  sphere  of  existence  with  a  testimony  of  the  truth.  ,  May  God  bless  the 
missionaries  of  the  South,  (that  they  may  find  hundreds  looking  for  the  Gospel, 
as  Elder  Lemon  found  us." 

"The  power  is  in  them."  Oh,  how  these  words  ring  in  my  ears ! 
They  echo  in  my  heart,  i  They  sound  like  a  trumpet.  As  I  associate 
with  those  fine  young  missionaries  I  have  unbounded  confidence  in  them, 
for  the  word  of  the  Lord  cannot  fail.  These  devoted  young  men  and 
young  women  are  a  credit  to  their  homes,  the  Church  and  the  nation. 
The  following  lines,  fwith  the  substitution  of  two  words,  apply  to  the 
Church : 

"Mother  of  men  grown  strong  in  giving — 

Honor  to  him  thy  lights  have  Jed : 
Rich  in  the  toil  of  thousands  living, 

Proud  of  the  deeds  of  thousands  dead. 
We  who  have  felt  thy  power  and  known  thee, 

We  in  whose  lives  thy  lights  avail, 
High,  in  our  hearts  enshrined,  enthrone  thee, 

Mother  of  men,"  the  Church ! 

May  God  help  us  in  the  Sunday  School,  in  all  the  auxiliary  organi- 
zations and  in  Church  educational  institutions,  to  develop  in  the  youth 
this  power  and  light  with  which  God  has  fortified  his  disciples,  I  humbly 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

The  other  day,  on  the  sidewalk  of  one  of  our  streets,  I  met  a 
brother  who  was  carrying  a  book,  and  as  we  stopped  to  exchange 
greetings  he  told  me  about  it  and  showed  me  the  title  of  it.  The  title 
was  very  striking  because  it  awakened  reflections  and  thoughts  with 
which  I  had  been  dealing  in  my  own  reading  for  some  time.  The  title 
which  attracted  my  attention  was:  "Has  Science  Discovered  God?" 
I  went  to  the  book  store  to  obtain  it,  and  since  have  read  it,  and  find  it 
to  be  quite  a  remarkable  hook.  The  author  of  it  was  one  named  Edward 
H.  Cotton,  a  Unitarian  minister.  He  is  responsible,  however,  only  for 
the  "Introduction"  which  is  quite  long.  The  writer  presents  himself  as 
editor,  rather  than  author.    The  Volume  is  a  symposium  upon  this 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


question,  "Has  Science  Discovered  God?"  Sixteen  famous  scientific 
and  philosophical  writers  make  up  the  symposium. 

Among  them  is  Robert  A.  Millikan,  prominent  physicist  of  Cali- 
fornia, and  prominent  in  the  intellectual  thought  of  the  times.  His 
subject  is  "Christianity  and  Science." 

Arthur  S.  Eddington  is  another  contributor,  a  prominent  astronomer 
at  Oxford,  England. 

Another  writer  is  Albert  Einstein,  physicist.  "The  Meeting  Place 
of  Science  and  Religion"  is  his  subject.  This  man  is  perhaps  the 
foremost  mathematician  of  the  world  at  the  present  time. 

"Religion,  Its  Persistence  and  Human  Character,"  is  by  Julian  S. 
Huxley,  biologist,  and  a  descendant  of  the  famous  Dr.  Thomas  H. 
Huxley  of  England,  of  the  last  generation. 

"The  History  of  Science  and  Search  for  God,"  is  by  John  Langdon- 
Davies,  recognized  rather  as  a  philosopher  than  as  a  scientist;  but  his 
great  work,  "Man  and  His  Universe,"  during  the  last  two  or  three  years, 
has  attracted  wide  attention. 

"The  Universe  a  Great  Thought,"  by  Sir  James  Jeans,  a  scientist 
and  philosopher.  He  is  the  author  of  two  recent  really  great  books, 
"The  Universe  Around  Us,"  and  "The  Mysterious  Universe." 

Another  contributor  is  Sir  Oliver  Lodge,  one  of  England's  fore- 
most scientists.  His  subject  is  "The  Scientific  Argument  for  Personal 
Survival." 

There  are  a  number  of  others,  but  perhaps  these  will  give  you  some 
idea  of  the  great  symposium  upon  this  subject,  "Has  Science  Discovered 
God?" 

As  I  read  these  several  contributions  to  the  subject,  at  the  close  of 
each  I  put  to  myself  the  question :  Well,  has  science  discovered  God  ? 
and  I  had  to  give  a  negative  answer  to  this  question.  It  is  only  fair 
to  say,  however,  that  the  compiler  of  this  work  and  editor  of  it  really 
does  not  claim  that  science  has  discovered  God,  especially  in  the  Chris- 
tian sense  of  God. 

But  I  wanted  to  go  a  bit  farther  than  that  and  not  only  say  that 
science  has  not  discovered  God,  but  to  say  also  that  I  doubt  if  science 
ever  will  "discover  God."  I  know  how  raw,  perhaps,  that  sounds  to 
your  ears,  and  you  will  credit  much  of  it  to  assumption.  Well,  be  that 
as  it  may,  I  nevertheless,  do  not  believe  that  science  will  discover  God. 
That,  as  I  understand  it,  is  not  the  work  assigned  to  science.  Scientists 
may  do  much  in  confirming  from  their  discoveries  the  existence  and 
the  power  and  the  glory  of  God;  but  it  will  be  God  who  will  reveal 
God ;  men  will  not  find  him  "unto  perfection"  by  their  searching.  It 
is  the  work  of  God  to  reveal  himself  and  absolutely  necessary  that  he 
should  do  so  in  order  that  we  may  have  religion  at  all. 

Not  only  will  science  not  discover  God,  but  not  even  religion  dis- 
covers him.  It  is  not  the  order  of  the  facts  for  religion  to  discover 
God.  The  order  of  the  facts  is  God  must  reveal  God.  That  is  the  only 
means  by  which  God  can  be  discovered  to  the  understanding  of  men,  by 
God  revealing  himself,  his  nature,  his  attributes,  his  relations  to  men, 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS 


95 


and  man's  relation  to  him.  That  done  through  the  revelation  of  God,  and 
you  have  your  basis  for  religion.  The  basis  of  man's  duty  to  God,  as 
well  as  God's  relationship  to  the  race  of  men. 

Science,  I  am  happy  to  note,  after  long  research  is  bringing  back 
the  conception  of  the  existence  of  mind  in  the  universe.  Sir  James 
Jeans,  whose  name  I  before  referred  to,  presents  the  universe  as  "God's 
great  thought."  An  Intelligence  is  operating  within  it,  destroying  the 
notion  that  the  universe  is  merely  mechanical,  which  prevailed  up  to 
some  forty  years  ago. 

This  is  splendid  to  have  science  working  along  that  line ;  bringing 
to  light  that  testimony  is  worth  while.  I  rejoice  in  the  light  and 
understanding  that  seems  to  be  coming  into  the  conception  of  these 
leading  scientists  of  the  world  in  relation  to  intelligence,  mind, 
thought,  being  connected  with  the  universe,  whose  extent  and  grandeur 
and  glory  are  constantly  increasing.  So  far  increasing,  indeed,  that  it 
is  held  that  the  universe  is  outgrowing  any  possible  conception  of  God 
being  connected  with  it. 

One  man  who  contributes  a  very  thoughtful  and  splendid  paper  to 
this  symposium  said : 

"Who  that  is  alive  to  the  questions  that  can  be  asked  can  dare  to  pretend 
that  science  has  destroyed  'the  splendor  of  the  heavens,  or  the  glory  of  the 
universe  ?  The  truth  is  that  nobody  has  yet  been  able  <to  imagine  a  God  splendid 
enough  or  glorious  enough,  aesthetically  or  ethically,  to  capture  the  imagination 
of  man,  once  it  rias  become  alive  to  iwhat  modern  science  can  show  it  lying 
about  its  feet  or  hanging  over  its  head." 

So  that  the  splendor  and  grandeur  of  the  universe,  in  this  man's 
thought,  is  that  it  exalts  itself  even  above  any  possible  conception  of 
God,  quite  contrary  to  the  conclusions  of  the  inspired  psalmist  of  Israel, 
who  saw  that  "the  heavens  declare  the  glory  of  God,  and  the  firmament 
showeth  his  handiwork."  So  that  science,  in  this  man's  estimation,  leads 
away  from  any  reasonable  conception  of  God,  for  such  a  universe  as 
science  has  revealed. 

It  is  not  my  purpose  to  prolong  remarks  along  these  lines.  I 
merely  want  to  place  my  hand  upon  the  door  of  thought  and  open  that 
door,  that  I  may  convey  to  you  once  more,  as  I  have  tried  to  do  on  former 
occasions,  the  glory  and  the  mission  to  which  God  has  dedicated  his 
Church  in  these  last  days.  I  have  said  that  God  must  reveal  God,  and 
indeed  he  has  so  revealed  himself.  He  revealed  himself  to  Adam  and 
Xoah  and  Melchizedek  and  Abraham  and  Moses,  and  in  the  climax  of 
things,  through  the  Christ,  for  as  St.  Paul  teaches  us,  Jesus  Christ  is 
the  manifestation  of  God  in  the  flesh.  (See  I  Tim.  3:16.)  He  gives 
unbounded  testimony  to  that  fact.  And  in  this  New  Dispensation  of  the 
Gospel,  lo,  God  has  revealed  God,  and  committed  the  duty  and  responsi- 
bility to  his  Church  to  go  forth  and  make  proclamation  of  that  revelation 
to  the  world. 

How  he  has  honored  this  Church  of  the  New  Dispensation  and  the 
officers  and  priesthood  of  it,  when  he  conferred  upon  them  this  high 
mission,  to  tell  the  world  that  God  has  revealed  God,  his  nature,  his 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

personality,  in  the  Father  and  in  the  Son  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost !  He  has 
called  upon  the  men  of  the  Church  to  bear  witness  of  this  truth.  That 
is  our  peculiar  position,  and  our  peculiar  duty  and  responsibility — to 
make  proclamation  of  this  great  truth,  to  stand  as  witnesses  for  God 
before  the  world. 

Now  I  take  my  humble  position  in  the  line  of  God's  witnesses  in 
this  dispensation,  and  say  to  you  that  I  am  sure  of  these  truths,  the 
truth  that  God  has  revealed  himself  as  creating  power,  world-sustaining 
power,  intelligence-inspiring  power,  and  has  revealed  the  Christ  as  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world,  through  the  resurrection  of  all  men  from  death, 
and  also  as  the  individual  Savior  of  men,  through  their  obedience  to  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  bringing  about  the  union  and  fellowship  of  man 
with  God  and  sealing  it  by  the  witness  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  a  noble 
personal  Spirit,  who  is  dedicated  to  that  service  to  bring  home  to  men 
the  fact  of  man's  union  with  God.  This  testimony  I  leave  with  you 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  solo  and  chorus,  "The  Recessional,"  was  sung  by  Sister  Jessie 
Evans  and  the  Choir. 

Elder  William  H.  Gibbs,  Patriarch,  Ensign  Stake,  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 

The  Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  closing  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  Sunday,  October  9, 
at  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

The  Tabernacle  was  again  fully  occupied  and  many  hundreds  of 
people  congregated  in  the  large  Assembly  Hall  on  the  Tabernacle 
Grounds,  where  they  listened  to  the  services  as  they  were  broadcast  by 
radio  from  the  Tabernacle. 

Sister  Lula  Christenson  and  the  Choir  sang  the  hymn  "O  my 
Father." 

Elder  Hyrum  M.  Taylor,  Patriarch,  Granite  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

The  anthem,  "Song  of  the  Redeemed,"  was  sung  by  the  Choir. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

It  is  the  Sabbath.  We  have  met  to  worship.  It  is  highly  appro- 
priate of  course,  to  pursue  spiritual  themes,  yet  I  feel  we  need  offer  no 
apology  when  we  deal  with  temporalities.  Indeed  in  our  conception  of 
things  all  temporal  affairs  have  spiritual  significance.  It  runs  in  my 
mind  to  speak  of  some  of  these  temporalities  in  the  hope  that  the 
observations  I  may  make  may  be  constructively  helpful  to  some  of  my 
brethren  who  find  themselves  in  serious  predicaments  in  the  economic 
world. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


97 


SERIOUS  EFFECTS  OF  FINANCIAL  WORRY 

I  have  profound  sympathy  for  the  man  who  is  in  debt.  I  know 
that  all  honest  men  prize  highly  their  good  name,  and  I  know  that  they 
would  not  willingly  lose  their  reputation  for  fair  and  honorable  dealing, 
and  for  the  prompt  discharge  of  their  obligations.  The  man  who  finds 
himself  in  a  situation  where  he  cannot  now  discharge  his  obligations  is 
subject  to  great  anxiety  and  worry.  Physicians  tell  me  that  no  small 
part  of  the  really  serious  maladies  that  come  to  men  these  days  is 
superinduced  by  financial  worry.  The  tragedies  of  money  and  financial 
collapse  you  read  in  the  newspapers.  The  man  who  cannot  pay  his 
debts  cannot  sleep  nights,  not  well  at  least.  He  is  all  the  time  appre- 
hensive and  contemplates  the  complete  loss  of  his  property.  In  his 
imagination  he  sees  his  family  thrown  upon  charity.  He  recognizes 
the  difficulty  of  making  a  new  start  in  the  world,  and  the  whole  problem 
presents  to  him  such  an  array  of  almost  insurmountable  difficulties  that 
there  are  times  when  he  reaches  the  very  verge  of  despair.  Unfortu- 
nately the  man  who  is  in  such  state  of  mind  is  not  rare  these  days.  Debt 
is  prevalent.   Few  there  are  who  can  stand  and  say  they  owe  no  man. 

What  are  we  to  do  in  these  perplexing  situations  ?  I  want  to  sug- 
gest a  few  ideas. 

NEVER  REPUDIATE 

First,  never  repudiate.  No  man  can  retain  his  honor,  the  respect 
of  his  fellows  and  self-esteem  who  repudiates  his  obligations.  The  men 
of  this  Church  in  times  past  have  enjoyed  an  excellent  reputation  for 
honorable  dealings.  It  would  be  a  serious  reflection  upon  the  good  name 
of  this  Church  if  members  in  any  large  numbers,  openly  or  secretly  or 
willfully,  repudiated  their  obligations.  I  recognize  the  fact  that  tempta- 
tion to  repudiate  them  is  sometimes  almost  overwhelming.  Men  reason 
thus :  We  contracted  our  debts  on  dollar  wheat  or  eight  dollar  beets,  on 
high  priced  cattle  and  sheep,  when  all  commodities  brought  a  good  price. 
We  are  now  obliged  to  pay  those  same  debts  without  reduction  in 
principal,  on  thirty  cent  wheat,  on  five  dollar  beets  and  on  other  com- 
modity prices  that  are  so  staggeringly  low  as  to  discourage  the  producer. 
But  even  though  that  argument  may  seem  specious  it  is  not  sound, 
for  a  debt  is  a  matter  of  honor  in  the  last  analysis  and  no  man  can 
afford  to  forsake  his  honor  by  repudiating  a  debt.  I  grant  you  that  there 
may  be  circumstances  under  which  one  may  be  obliged  by  the  very 
pressure  of  circumstances  to  avail  himself  of  the  relief  that  the  law 
affords.  I  could  wish  that  the  law  were  changed.  I  understand  there 
is  a  movement  in  congress  and  has  been  for  some  years,  to  change  it 
so  that  no  man  will  be  permitted  to  take  bankruptcy  unless  in  the  judg- 
ment of  a  court  of  equity  it  is  equitable  that  he  should.  But  until  that 
law  is  changed,  while  it  remains  as  it  is,  while  a  man  may  under  the  law 
discharge  his  obligations  by  going  through  that  procedure  I  trust  that 
no  member  of  this  Church  will  ever  take  advantage  of  it  except  under 
the  utmost  pressure  he  be  forced  so  to  do. 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


SEE  CREDITORS  AND  ARRANGE  WITH  THEM 

Secondly.  While  these  conditions  prevail  and  it  remains  impossible 
to  discharge  obligations  with  the  resources  at  hand,  another  thing  that 
I  recommend  that  every  debtor  do  is  to  see  his  creditors.  After  all, 
creditors  are  men,  banks  are  men,  and  the  lending  companies  at  least 
ought  to  be  impressed  with  the  absolute  necessity  of  making  proper 
adjustments  at  these  times.  Many  a  debtor  gets  in  bad  with  his  creditor 
because  he  fails  to  see  him.  I  know  that  he  is  often  embarrassed,  he 
would  rather  stay  away.  It  hurts  his  pride  to  confess  his  financial 
inability  to  discharge  his  obligations.  But  the  best  thing  he  can  do  for 
the  preservation  of  his  own  credit  and  for  the  adjustment  of  his  situation 
is  to  see  his  creditor  and  arrange  with  him,  and  if  every  creditor  as  well 
as  every  debtor  enjoyed  a  sound,  merciful,  considerate,  kind,  Christian 
philosophy  there  would  not  be  great  difficulty  in  arranging.  I  know 
that  many  creditors  themselves  are  pressed  and  have  felt  the  necessity 
of  pressing  their  debtors,  but  this  is  a  time  when  all  need  to  be  con- 
siderate and  I  have  confidence  that  the  intelligent  creditor  can  arrange 
for  extension  and  if  need  be  for  compromise  and  reduction  of  obliga- 
tions. If  he  is  a  wise  creditor  he  will  even  find  it  is  a  very  prudent 
thing  to  reduce  the  obligation  so  that  the  debtor  may  pay  and  thus 
maintain  his  honor  and  his  self-respect. 

BY  PERSEVERING  AND  CONSISTENT  ACTION 

Next,  do  not  wait  for  your  ship  to  come  in.  The  debtor  who  is 
waiting  to  discharge  his  obligations  until  he  gets  some  big  returns  from 
some  unassured  proposition,  is  going  to  be  a  long  time  discharging  his 
debts.  I  have  no  confidence  in  the  ultimate  outcome  of  a  man's  finances 
who  is  everlastingly  waiting  upon  some  happy  event  that  will  discharge 
all  his  debts  and  put  him  in  the  clear.  Debts  are  only  worked  out  by 
intelligent,  persevering,  consistent  action.  And  I  think  that  it  is  folly 
in  these  days  for  men  either  to  hope  for  a  return  of  those  speculative 
clays  which  made  tremendous  paper  profits,  or  for  any  such  great  change 
of  affairs  as  will  bring  to  anyone  a  large  sum  of  money  with  which 
he  can  meet  all  the  obligations  that  he  may  have  rather  unwisely  incurred. 
Work,  consistent  application  to  one's  vocation,  if  he  is  fortunate 
enough  to  have  one,  or  his  job,  or  his  farm,  or  his  business,  may  bring 
about  in  the  end,  although  slowly,  the  desired  results. 

BY  MAKING  NECESSARY  ADJUSTMENTS 

When  are  times  going  to  be  better?  Who  knows?  When  are 
prices  going  to  appreciate?  Who  can  tell?  How  long  may  we  have 
to  raise  wheat  for  thirty  or  forty  cents  a  bushel?  Who  knows?  Are 
we  going  to  despair  in  the  carrying  forward  of  our  several  industries 
because  we  have  no  positive  assurance  that  better  prices  will  prevail? 
Now,  it  is  an  interesting  thing  these  days  to  note  that  some  businesses 
succeed  and  others  do  not.  I  think  that  a  careful  analysis  of  the  situ- 
ation will  indicate  that  the  man  who  is  able  to  make  his  affairs  go 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS  99 


forward  these  times  is  the  man  who  is  willing  to  make  the  sacrifices,  the 
reductions  and  the  adjustments  that  are  essential  to  meet  our  present 
market.  For  one  I  am  not  persuaded  that  men  cannot  do  business  on 
a  greatly  reduced  price  scale  with  some  advantage  to  themselves.  I 
hope  for  better  prices ;  I  hope  for  a  speedy  return  of  better  conditions. 
It  distresses  all  of  us  to  see  the  misery  that  is  caused  to  the  people  of 
the  country  by  these  abnormally  low  prices  that  now  prevail.  But  I 
do  not  know  when  they  are  going  to  be  better.  I  feel  that  our  men 
should  not  look  upon  these  prices  and  these  conditions  as  insurmountable 
difficulties  that  prevent  the  continued  operation  of  their  businesses,  and 
ultimately  the  successful  outcome  of  them. 

EXTRAVAGANCE  DEPLORED 

I  despise  waste,  and  I  think  that  waste  under  present  conditions  is 
almost  criminal — the  waste  of  anything.  Extravagance  that  amounts  to 
waste  is  likewise  indefensible  in  view  of  the  great  needs  that  present 
themselves.  Sometimes  I  grow  indignant  when  I  see  and  contemplate 
the  extravagances  that  are  indulged  by  some  of  our  institutions,  both 
public  and  private  when  people  are  in  such  great  distress  and  great  want. 
There  are  extravagances  in  government  that  absorb  all  my  own  taxes 
and  the  taxes  of  my  neighbors.  These  expenses  are  useless  and  un- 
necessary, some  of  them  legalized  it  is  true,  but  public  service  ought 
to  be  so  alive  to  the  situation  that  confronts  us  today  that  even  if 
extravagance  is  legalized  it  should  be  stopped.  A  sense  of  the  pro- 
prieties and  a  sense  of  fairness  and  justice  would  prompt  such  action. 

Our  taxes  are  unbearably  high  because  our  incomes  are  so  reduced. 
It  is  a  tragedy  to  see  the  farms  and  the  homes  that  are  being  sacrificed 
because  of  the  inability  of  their  owners  to  pay  the  taxes  levied  on  them. 
Of  course  we  want  good  government,  we  want  the  protection  of  law, 
we  want  all  the  opportunities  that  good  government  affords  to  us,  and 
I  recognize  that  they  have  to  be  paid  for,  but  this  is  a  day  when  economy 
must  be  applied. 

INVESTIGATION  BY  TAXPAYERS 

I  am  very  sympathetic  with  the  movement  that  I  have  heard  is  in 
progress  wherein  the  taxpayers  constitute  themselves  committees  to 
investigate  our  public  expenditures.  No  official  of  the  government 
who  has  the  right  conception  of  his  trust  ought,  in  any  sense,  to  resent 
an  investigation  of  the  administration  of  his  office.  I  like  the  idea.  I 
wish  citizens  everywhere  would  organize  themselves  and  go  to  public 
officials  and  question  them  and  ascertain  whether  or  not  it  is  not 
possible  to  make  reductions  in  the  excessive  costs  for  which  we  are 
paying  bills,  for  we  pay  them  all. 

LIVING  WITHIN  OUR  MEANS 

We  talk  constantly  about  balancing  the  budget.  We  are  not  bal- 
ancing the  budget.    Debts  are  mounting  higher  in  our  national  admin- 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


istration  and  I  suppose  in  our  state  government  as  well  as  in  our 
municipal  governments.  I  recognize  the  fact  that  many  municipalities 
are  actually  embarrassed  because  they  cannot  get  the  means  with  which 
to  discharge  their  public  obligations.  It  may  be  that  such  strenuous 
circumstances  will  be  necessary  to  teach  us  that  publicly  as  well  as 
privately  we  have  to  live  within  our  means,  for  there  is  just  one  way 
for  every  institution  as  well  as  every  individual  to  get  out  of  its  or  his 
debts  and  that  is  by  spending  less  than  we  receive  and  applying  the 
difference  to  the  liquidation  of  our  liabilities.  That  is  the  only  way  to 
get  out  of  debt.  It  is  a  very  simple  process,  and  yet  it  is  a  very  hard 
thing  to  do  and  requires  a  tremendous  amount  of  stamina  to  undertake 
the  job. 

THE  NEED  OF  PRIVATE  CHARITY 

Now  these  things  I  consider  to  be  imperative  for  the  relief  of  our 
distressing  financial  condition.  I  recognize  that  there  are  many  these 
days  to  whom  the  application  is  very  remote  because  there  are  some 
of  our  brethren  and  sisters  and  many  people  in  the  world  who  are 
without  any  source  of  income  other  than  that  which  comes  from  charity 
to  supply  their  needs.  Of  course  the  unemployed  deserve  and  I  believe 
that  they  receive  our  sincere  sympathy,  and  they  need  not  only  our 
sympathy  but  our  means,  and  I  should  like  to  say  to  the  people  here 
assembled  that  this  is  a  time  when,  although  the  government  and  other 
agencies  are  doing  all  it  seems  possible  to  do  . to  relieve  distress,  private 
charity  must  still  be  called  upon  in  large  measure  to  meet  the  require- 
ments that  exist.  We  cannot  lie  down  and  say  that  the  relief  funds  of 
the  government  or  our  Church  are  going  to  take  care  of  the  situation. 
They  are  not,  and  we  shall  still  be  obliged  to  strain  ourselves  to  the 
uttermost  in  order  to  supply  that  which  is  required. 

MATERIAL  ASSISTANCE  INDISPENSABLE 

Well,  what  has  all  this  to  do  with  religion?  Why  does  this  kind 
of  talk  find  place,  as  I  think  it  does,  in  such  an  assembly  as  this?  It  is 
because  the  man  who  has  the  religion  of  Jesus  Christ  in  his  heart  cannot 
stand  by  and  see  the  suffering  of  his  fellows  without  being  prompted 
by  every  emotion  which  is  within  him  to  come  to  their  relief  and  to  give 
assistance,  and  it  is  because  the  assistance  that  is  so  urgently  required 
these  days  is  material  assistance.  Material  assistance  is  not  only 
necessary  for  the  relief  of  suffering  and  distress  among  the  people, 
but  that  assistance  is  indispensable  ultimately  to  the  establishment  of 
the  great  and  glorious  cause  in  which  we  have  the  honor  to  be  engaged. 
The  Church,  fortunately,  as  President  Ivins  told  us,  is  out  of  debt,  but 
the  Church  needs  money.  The  various  facilities  that  the  Church  employs 
for  the  dissemination  of  this  great  work  require  money,  the  radio  which 
broadcasts  the  messages  of  this  conference,  which  gave  us  such  an 
unusual  thrill  this  morning,  must  all  be  supported  by  money.  Our 
temples,  our  chapels,  our  great  missionary  cause  itself,  need  money 
with  which  they  may  be  prosecuted  to  a  successful  conclusion.  We 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


101 


haven't  much  money,  we  are  poor  these  days.  I  agree  heartily  with 
those  speakers  who  have  preceded  me  in  saying  that  we  need  to  make 
up  in  spiritual  fervor,  in  sacrifice,  in  renewed  enthusiasm,  for  the  want 
of  our  depleted  resources,  but  we  still  need  some  money  for  this  work. 
I  know  what  these  debts  mean  to  the  missionary  service.  I  know  there 
are  thousands  of  homes  in  this  Church  who  would  rejoice  to  send  out 
a  missionary  to  the  depleted  ranks  of  our  missionary  force  if  they  were 
not  in  the  bondage  of  debt.  They  are  mortgaged  to  their  creditors 
and  in  consequence  they  cannot  move  to  accomplish  the  things  that 
they  would  like  to  do. 

I  sincerely  pray  that  God  in  his  goodness  will  inspire  every  man 
to  do  the  thing  that  his  circumstances  most  require,  to  resist  extrava- 
gances, to  place  himself  on  a  careful,  saving,  economical  basis  that  will 
ultimately  free  him  ifrom  this  bondage  of  debt  against  which  we  have 
always  been  warned,  that  the  men  and  the  women  of  the  Church  may  be 
free  to  devote  their  means,  to  consecrate  the  products  of  their  lives  to  this 
high  and  holy  cause  which  so  commands  our  attention  and  our  allegiance. 
God  grant  that  it  may  be  so,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

I  see  in  the  congregation  Dr.  Elmer  G.  Peterson,  President  of  the 
Agricultural  College  of  Utah,  who,  for  years,  has  had  under  his  direction, 
as  their  tutor,  large  numbers  of  the  boys  and  girls  of  the  State.  I  am 
going  to  ask  him  to  come  to  the  stand  and  address  us  for  a  few  minutes. 

DR.  ELMER  G.  PETERSON 

President  of  the  Utah  State  Agricultural  College 

I  shared  with,  all  of  you  this  morning,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  an 
unusual  emotion  as  we  witnessed  the  nation-wide  broadcast  which 
emanated  ,from  this  stand.  I  could  not  help  thinking,  as  that  nothing 
short  of  miraculous  event  transpired,  of  the  very  brief  period  of  time 
which  had  elapsed  since  those  first'  companies  of  pioneers  found  their 
way  over  the  forbidding  desert,  and  through  the  equally  forbidding 
mountains,  to  this  historic  spot  now  marked  by  the  great  edifice  in  which 
we  meet  and  the  other  'edifices  on  the  Temple  block. 

It  has  been  only  eighty  years  or  so  since  those  pioneer  companies 
traversed  practically  half  the  continent,  and  I  presume  even  the  most 
visionary  of  them  had  little  understanding  of  the  tremendous  significance 
of  the  developments  which  were  taking  place.  Those  developments  are 
nothing  short  of  revolution  so  far  as  human  affairs  are  concerned, 
expressing  themselves  in  a  miraculous  mastery  by  men  of  the  forces  of 
nature  under  the  ministrations  of  science  and  the  arts,  and  accomplishing 
also  tremendous  results  of  a  social  and  secular  character. 

The  world,  indeed,  of  which  we  are  a  part  is  now  quite  a  different 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


world  from  what  it  was  when  those  first  companies  found  their  way 
here.  Of  course  the  miracle  is  not  entirely  in  these  evolvements  of 
science,  marvelous  as  they  jare,  but'  in  the  fact  also,  I  believe,  that  from 
those  small  beginnings  there  has  arisen  a  great  company  of  people 
actively  devoted  to  the  development  of  the  truth. 

I  happened  to  be  teaching  in  the  state  of  Oregon  at  one  time  when 
a  prominent  American  leader  came  through  that  marvelous  state.  The 
people  there  of  course  were  anxious  to  show  him — it  was  Woodrow 
Wilson  who  was  making  the  trip — the  impressive  natural  resources  of 
the  state  of  Oregon — the  fisheries,  the  great  lumbering  industry,  the 
commerce,  the  orchards,  mines  and  ranches;  and  Mr.  Wilson — he  was 
then  a  candidate  for  (the  Presidency — indicated  his  great  pleasure  at 
seeing  these  resources.  There  happened  to  be  in  Oregon  at  that  time 
a  man  who  had  attracted  national  attention  because  of  the  reforms 
which  he  was  seeking  to  initiate  in  government  and  in  social  affairs. 
His  name  was  Uren.  He  was  seeking  to  bring  back  to  the  control  of 
the  people  the  great  agencies  of  government  and  the  agencies  of  service 
otherwise  which  in  part,  lamentably  a  large  part,  had  departed  from 
their  control.  Mr.  Wilson  said  he  was  deeply  interested  in  the  forests, 
fisheries  and  other  resources  of  Oregon,  but  he  was  infinitely  more 
interested  in  what  was,  as  he  Expressed  it,  under  Mr.  Uren's  hat.  In 
other  words  he  felt  the  spiritual  need  as  superior  to  the  material  in  the 
people's  efforts  to  exalt  themselves  socially,  politically  and  otherwise. 

Well,  II  am  always  impressed  as  I  come  to  these  gatherings  of  the 
Church,  the  like  of  which  probably  are  not  duplicated  upon  the  face  of 
the  earth,  by  the  unanimity  of  sentiment  upon  the  things  about  which 
the  people  here  are  ithinking,  by  the  powerful  organization  here  for 
purposes  of  righteousness,  by  the  positiveness  with  which  the  working 
of  good  is  undertaken,  all  manifestations  of  spiritual  undertaking. 

There  are  of  course  two  bases  of  testimony  of  any  religious  work. 
There  is  the  basis  of  faith,  which  is  not  much  to  be  argued  about.  It 
is  a  matter  of  possession  or  non-possession.  1  Such  things,  for  instance, 
as  the  reality,  the  actuality,  or  otherwise  of  that  great  event  which 
transpired  in  the  Sacred  Grove.  Now  a  person  believes  that  or  he  does 
not  believe  it,  or  he  is  in  process  of  developing  a  faith  in  it.  But  after 
all,  this  event  and  other  comparable  events  such  as  the  miraculous 
manifestation  to  Paul  on  the  road  to  Damascus,  the  occasion  when 
Moses  came  down  from  the  mountain  and  reported  the  event  which 
resulted  in  the  code  known  as  the  Ten  Commandments,  not  replaceable 
even  in  this  modern  complex  and  learned  age  by  the  man-made  com- 
pilation of  laws — these  things  are  matters  of  faith.  However  profound 
our  belief  may  [be  in  them — and  the  event  in  the  Sacred  Grove  takes 
its  place  in  history  with  the  other  events  which  I  have  mentioned — they 
are  matters  of  faith  and  not  subject  to  the  same  scientific  analysis  as 
are  other  aspects  of  religion  which  are  not  matters  of  faith  but  which  are, 
nevertheless,  bases  of  testimony.  Not  being  subject'  to  analysis  or 
scientific  proof  in  no  sense  invalidates  these  great  occurrences.  My 


DR.   ELMER    G.   PETERSON  103 

own  confidence  in  them  is  as  complete  as  though  they  were  phenomena 
admitting  of  direct  analysis  and  proof. 

My  life  has  been  spent  largely  in  dealing  with  (young  people.  As 
we  all  know,  the  greater  deductions  and  generalizations  which  set 
themselves  up  in  people's  minds,  usually  as  a  result  of  (long  periods  of 
time  and  of  experience,  are  not,  frequently,  the  possession  of  youth. 
The  young  look  usually  for  those  things  which  are  called  scientific, 
which  might  be  called  rational.  Not  that  these  other  great  manifestations 
are  not  rational  if  we  had  a  deeper  knowledge  of  ithings — indeed,  in 
some  ways,  disbelief  in  them  is  one  of  the  greatest  irrationalities  even 
with  our  present  knowledge ;  yet  there  are  foundations  for  the  develop- 
ment of  our  own  faith  that  are  eminently  rational;  and  I  have  found 
that  these  are  reliable  things  upon  which  to  build  (the  faith  of  the  young 
in  a  religious  or  in  an  ethical  or  social  or  any  other  similar  way. 

I  was  once  talking  with  a  young  member  of  the  Church  who  had 
spent  some  time  in  study  in  the  East  in  a  professional  school ;  and  he 
remarked  while  on  his  way  back  to  take  up  his  "practice  in  a  neighboring 
state  that  one  of  the  things  the  Church  would  have  to  do  was  to  get 
away  from  the  old  practice  which  he  associated  with  what  we  call  temple 
work,  ancient  devices  and  practices  which  civilization,  he  said,  had 
long  since  outgrown.  He  was  asked  what,  in  his  judgment,  was  the 
most  prevailing  weakness  in  the  society  with  which  he  was  so  familiar 
in  the  place  where  he  had  studied,  one  of  Jour  large  cities.  He  said 
he  thought  that  possibly  the  greatest  weakness  there  as  elsewhere  in  the 
centers  of  population  was  a  breakdown,  in  the  relations  of  the  sexes, 
that  promiscuity  had  succeeded  chastity,  and  that  the  standards  of  fidelity 
in  family  life  that'  had  been  taught  to  us  as  an  integral  part  of  Christian 
belief  were  falling  down  pitiably  in  what  we  call  civilization.  As  our 
discussion  revolved  around  the  question  of  temple  ordinances  and  the 
care  and  sacredness  which  guard  the  great  relationships  of  sex,  relation- 
ships which  are  the  very  source  and  fountain  of  life  itself,  it  was  asked 
if  after  all,  aside  entirely  from  the  spiritual  realities  which  underlie 
temple  work,  the  safeguarding  of  these  relationships  .was  not  sufficient 
to  justify  every  expenditure  and  every  energy  which  goes  into  this 
sacred  work? 

Here  :is  a  rationality  that  is  clearly  obvious,  rational  of  course 
because  it  has  a  deep  spiritual  significance  as  a  basis.  There  are  many 
others. 

One  of  the  weaknesses  of  present  government  is  a  breakdown  in 
what  we  call  democracy ;  and  the  great  peoples  of  Europe,  from  whom 
practically  all  of  this  audience  have  come,  are  looking  about  for  a 
substitute,  and  some  of  them  are  trying  substitutes  by  way  of  dictator- 
ships and  what1  not.  They  are  anxious  to  find  a  cure  for  the  weaknesses 
that  have  expressed  themselves  in  democratic  institutions.  Indeed,  in 
the  thought  of  many  observers,  democracy  is  on  trial.  It  does  not 
require  very  extensive  analysis  to  reveal  that  among  the  many  ration- 
alities of  Mormon  faith,  our  own  faith,  is  that  which  expresses  itself 
in  the  essential  democracy  which  pervades  this  great  organization.  I 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


doubt  if  anywhere  upon  the  face  of  the  earth  a  congregation  with 
greater  individual  self-respect  could  be  assembled  than  this  congregation 
here,  where  the  sense  of  the  actuality  of  brotherhood,  which  is  the  essence 
of  democracy,  exists  in  such  abundance  that  there  is  no  doubt  in  the 
minds  of  the  humblest,  as  well  as  all  jothers  in  this  congregation,  as  to 
the  equality  of  privilege  and  opportunity  which  he  shares  with  every  one 
else  in  this  great  social  union,  and  as  it  applies  to  our  own  Church  this 
great  priesthood. 

A  careful  thinker,  after  living  some  time  in  the  state  teaching  in 
one  of  our  institutions,  once  asked  me  why  it  was  that  there  were  no 
hereditary  ruling  families  developed  in  the  history  of  the  Church;  and 
I  expressed  the  opinion,  which  I  had  not  very  carefully  thought  out, 
that  one  reason  for  it  was  that  there  was  such  actuality  in  the  brother- 
hood which  existed  in  the  Church  that  those  families  instead  of  tending 
to  intermarry  within  themselves  disseminated  their  strength  throughout 
the  body  of  the  Church. 

Rationality  expresses  itself  in  the  processes  which  relate  to  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  sometimes  considered  a  more  or  less  extreme  doctrine. 
One  of  the  dangers  of  our  present  civilization  is  the  danger  of  indulgence, 
expressing  itself  in  addiction  to  drugs  of  a  terrible  and  devastating 
character,  an  indulgence  that  threatens  the  very  virtue  of  modern  society. 
A  person  who  observes  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  free  from  the  danger 
of  addiction  to  drugs.  If  the  preachment  called  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
had  no  other  value  than  to  keep  at  least  five,  six  or  seven  hundred 
thousand  people  free  from  the  withering  curse  of  addiction  to  the  more 
deadly  narcotics  and  other  drugs,  that  great  doctrine  would  have 
justified  itself. 

Of  course  these  and  similar  doctrines  that  could  be  mentioned 
are  not  negative.  They  are  not  primarily  for  the  sake  of  preventing 
people  from  doing  bad  things.  Their  great  virtue  consists  in  the  fact 
that  they  build  up  individually  and  thus  socially  strength  which  becomes 
a  powerful  weapon  for  righteousness.  These  things  have  appealed  to 
me  as  I  have  analyzed  the  doctrines  of  the  Church  which  constitute  a 
philosophy,  aside  from  the  religion,  the  spirituality  that  is  in  the  doctrine, 
a  philosophy  so  profound  that  it  is  beyond  the  comprehension  of  the 
most  learned  and  the  most  intellectual,  a  profound  formula  for  the  living 
of  clean  and  wholesome  lives,  and  infinitely  more  than  that  of  course,  a 
formula  by  means  of  which  a  people  united  together  can  preserve  and 
build  up  those  great  strengths  that  hold  out  the  possibility  of  finding 
expression  in  the  fulfilment  of  the  teachings  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth, 
the  exaltation  of  mankind. 

It  would  not  be  proper  for  me  to  occupy  more  time.  I  rejoice  with 
you  in  the  accomplishments  which  represent  themselves  here  individually 
in  this  audience  and  in  the  many,  many  thousands  more  who  are  listening 
in  today,  in  the  social  cleanliness  which  is  expressing  itself,  and  in  the 
militant  organization  which  exists  here  for  continuing  the  battle  of  truth. 

May  God  bless  us  to  be  worthy  of  this  great  fellowship  I  humbly 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  IV.  IVINS  105 

A  solo,  "The  blind  plowman,"  was  sung  by  Brother  Melvin  Watson, 
who  is  blind. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  is  the  last  session,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  of  the  conference. 
I  have  been  reminded  of  the  scripture  that  [I  am  about  to  quote. 

It  is  now  more  than  2,000  years  ago  since  the  Lord  called  the 
Prophet  Ezekiel,  the  son  of  Buzi,  commanding  him  to  go  and  proclaim 
his  word  to  the  house  of  Israel.  The  Israelitish  people  had  departed 
from  faith  in  the  God  of  their  fathers  and  had  turned  to  the  worship  of 
idols.  Ezekiel,  in  obedience  to  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  went  out 
to  the  people  jwho  dwelt  upon  |the  river  Chebar  and  abode  with  them 
seven  days.  He  was  amazed  at  their  wickedness,  their  idolatry,  and  he 
hesitated,  reluctant  to  deliver  the  message  which  the  Lord  had  com- 
manded him  to  take  to  them. 

EZEKIEL  REBUKED 

At  the  end  of  that  time  the  Lord  rebuked  him  and  said  to  him : 

"Son  of  man,  I  have  made  thee  a  watchman  unto  the  house  of  Israel :  there- 
fore hear  the  word  at  my  mouth,  and  give  them  warning  from  me. 

"When  I  say  lunto  the  wicked,  Thou  shalt  surely  die ;  and  thou  givest  him 
not  warning,  nor  speakest  to  warn  the  wicked  from  his  wicked  way,  to  save  his 
life ;  the  same  wicked  man  shall  idie  in  his  iniquity ;  but  his  blood  will  I  require 
at  thine  hand. 

"Yet  if  thou  warn  the  wicked,  land  he  turn  not  from  his  wickedness,  nor  from 
his  wicked  way,  he  shall  die  in  his  iniquity;  but  thou  hast  delivered  thy  soul." 

RESPONSIBILITY  OF  LEADERSHIP 

I  have  often  read  these  words  of  the  prophet  and  have  asked  myself 
this  question,  What  is  their  application  to  you  ?  What  is  the  responsi- 
bility that  you  are  under  in  the  capacity  which  you  occupy  in  the 
Church  and  in  the  nation  ?  The  answer  has  always  been  the  same.  It 
is  this,  that  whatever  my  profession,  whether  it  be  as  a  citizen  of  the 
government  to  which  [I  have  given  allegiance,  or  a  member  of  the  Church 
with  which  I  am  affiliated,  it  becomes  my  duty  to  magnify  in  my  life  and 
to  teach  others  to  do  so,  the  ideals  f  or  which  my  country  stands,  and 
the  creed  which  my  Church  teaches.  If  I  fail  in  this  and  lead  others 
away  from  loyalty  to  their  country  or  (devotion  to  the  truths  of  religion, 
I  assume  the  responsibility  of  not  only  being  a  violator  of  the  laws  made 
for  the  protection  and  temporal  welfare  (of  the  citizens,  but  of  the  law 
of  God  which  has  been  given  to  us  for  the  salvation  of  our  souls. 

This  places  upon  Ime,  if  I  properly  understand  it,  and  upon  every 
other  person  who  assumes  the  responsibility  of  leadership,  whether  it 
be  in  the  Church  or  state,  a  tremendous  responsibility,  a  responsibility 
which  J  always  feel  when  I  stand  before  a  congregation  of  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  as  I  do  now,  upon  occasions  of  this  kind,  and  I  always  feel 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  necessity  of  dependence  upon  the  Lord  and  (upon  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  for  help. 

A  [MARVELOUS  CHANGE 

This  is  a  congregation  of  people  composed  almost  exclusively  of 
members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  com- 
monly (known  to  the  world  as  Mormons,  i  We  are  here  in  a  building- 
known  throughout  the  world  as  the  Mormon  tabernacle.  We  are  listen- 
ing to  an  organ  the  tones  of  which  have  become  known  throughout  the 
world.  We  are  here  in  an  environment  of  flowers,  of  trees,  with  beauty 
and  peace  all  around  us.  I  remember  a  time  when  this  Mock  of  ground 
on  which  these  buildings  stand,  where  these  trees  grow,  these  flowers 
bloom,  was  a  barren  waste.  I  have  played  upon  this  block  when  there 
was  not  a  shrub  or  spear  of  grass  on  it.  It  was  a  gravelly  part  of  the 
bed  of  City  Creek.  I  have  seen  it  grow  from  that  time  until  now. 
I  knew  the  men  who  were  the  builders  of  it.  We  are  now  in  a  city 
which  we  call  Salt  Lake,  in  a  state  which  we  call  Utah,  now  one  of  the 
48  states  of  the  confederation  which  constitutes  the  United  States  of 
America.  Only  yesterday  there  was  no  tabernacle,  no  flowers,  no  Salt 
Lake  City,  no  State  of  Utah;  and  going  back  just  a  little  farther,  only 
yesterday,  as  time  ticks  off  its  moments,  and  hours,  and  days,  and  years, 
and  aeons,  there  was  no  government  of  the  United  States  of  America. 

THE  MORMON  PIONEERS 

What  is  it  that  has  brought  this  about  ?  Why  is  this  great  congre- 
gation of  men  and  women  assembled  here  this  afternoon  ?  Anglo  Saxon 
men  and  women  as  a  rule,  people  whose  forefathers  many  of  them  laid 
or  assisted  in  the  laying  of  the  foundation  upon  which  our  government 
rests.  I  knew  these  men  and  women  as  perhaps  few  men  now  Jiving 
knew  them.  This  Mormon  Pioneer,  I  knew  his  faith,  I  knew  his  in- 
dustry, I  knew  his  integrity,  I  knew  his  devotion  to  the  government  of 
which  he  formed  a  part,  for  he  believed  that  it  was  ia  Cod-given  govern- 
ment. He  knew  that  it  was  not  alone  the  doing  of  men,  that  had  brought 
him  to  this  forbidding  looking  country,  and  yet  in  its  ruggedness  and 
its  barrenness  grand  beyond  comprehension.  And  so  he  toiled  on.  When 
difficulties  confronted  him  he  prayed  to  the  Lord  for  light  and  strength, 
and  then  went  out  and  did  the  thing  that  was  required  of  him.  Pro- 
foundly religious  he  held  in  reverential  respect  the  religion  of  other  men. 
He  knew  that  other  people  found  God  in  temples  built  with  hands,  just 
as  he  found  him  here  under  the  stars  where  he  worshipped  in  those 
early  days. 

I  think  of  those  men,  I  think  of  their  statesmanship.  They  were  the 
peers  of  any  of  their  time,  intellectually,  educationally,  largely  men  who 
had  come  from  the  New  England  states  of  our  republic,  the  descendants 
of  the  Pilgrims  whom  the  Lord  brought  there,  and  it  was  He  who 
brought  them  here.   They  knew  it. 

DESTINY  FORETOLD 

I  shall  not  take  time  to  go  back  and  prove  to  you  the  truth  of  Elder 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W .  WINS  107 


Talmage's  remarks  of  yesterday.  This  country  in  which  we  live  had 
been  declared  by  the  prophets  thousands  of  years  ago  to  have  'been  given 
by  God  our  Father  to  the  covenant  people  of  Israel.  The  coming  of 
Columbus  was  not  a  thing  of  chance.  The  prophets  predicted  his  coming 
ages  ago.  He  came  here  under  the  inspiration,  the  impulse,  unknown 
perhaps  to  him,  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  just  as  we  are  led  to  do  many 
things  without  just  knowing  the  reason  why,  for  the  accomplishment  of 
a  divine  purpose.  The  establishment  in  this  country  of  a  government 
to  which  the  oppressed  of  all  nations  should  come  for  jrefuge,  for  free- 
dom. He  declared  that  no  kings  should  ever  rule  here,  centuries  before 
Columbus  sailed  from  the  port  of  Spain.  l  He  told  the  history  of  this 
country,  its  past,  its  present,  and  declared  its  future  destiny,  just  as 
definitely  as  he  declared  its  past  history. 

What  is  that  destiny  ?  It  is  that  this  government  of  ours  shall  persist ; 
it  shall  continue ;  it  shall  never  be  thrown  down ;  no  enemy  that  comes 
against  it  shall  ever  triumph — upon  this  one  condition,  that  the  people 
to  whom  the  Lord  has  given  these  bounteous  blessings ;  these  miracles 
which  have  Jcome  to  the  earth  during  my  lifetime,  these  people  who 
have  grown  from  an  exceedingly  small  beginning  to  be  the  wealthiest, 
perhaps  the  most  important  in  influence — I  believe  I  am  justified  in 
saying  it — that  there  is  in  the  world — upon  condition  that  they  serve 
the  Lord  of  the  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ. 

GOD,  THE  AUTHOR  ,OF  IT 

Where  much  is  given  much  is  expected.  This  land,  to  God  our 
Father,  is  a  chosen  land,  dedicated  as  I  have  said  to  the  principle  of 
liberty  and  freedom,  not  license. 

Our  fathers,  under  His  inspiration,  gave  us  the  constitution  of  our 
country,  the  bill  of  rights  which  defines  our  privileges  and  places  limita- 
tions beyond  which  we  may  not  go.  Liberty,  when  carried  to  the 
extreme,  results  in  license.  I  want  to  impress  upon  this  congregation, 
my  brethren  and  sisters  who  are  here,  that  the  Lord  our  God  has  been 
the  author  of  it  all.  It  was  he  who  led  you  from  your  native  lands. 
You  people  from  the  green  fields  and  lanes  of  England,  you  did  not 
leave  your  homes  because  you  did  not  love  your  native  land.  You  had 
fought  for  it,  defended  it,  and  were  ready  to  fight  for  it  again.  You 
people  from  Scotland,  you  people  from  Ireland  and  Wales,  from  Ger- 
many and  the  islands  of  the  sea,  oh  if  I  only  had  the  time  to  go  back 
and  tell  you  I  could  show  you  that  the  whole  story  of  your  lives  had  been 
written  by  the  finger  of  God. 

So  we  are  here ;  here,  thank  the  Lord,  citizens  of  the  best  govern- 
ment in  the  world.  We  are  here,  members  of  the  Church  of  Christ  our 
Lord  which  has  (been  restored  through  the  medium  of  heavenly  messen- 
gers who  had  authority  to  give  to  men  upon  earth,  the  keys  of  the  holy 
priesthood.  What  for?  For  the  redemption  of  the  human  family. 
Whether  men  (believe  it  or  not  these  things  are  true,  and  ultimately  they 
will  believe  it,  and  there  is  no  power  either  in  earth  or  hell  that  can 
stay  the  progress  of  the  Church,  unless  its  people  grove  recreant  to  the 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


covenants  that  they  have  entered  into  with  our  Father  who  is  in  heaven. 
Just  so,  there  is  no  power  that  can  wreck  the  government  that  God  has 
established  in  this  country  unless  it  be  the  people  themselves,  and  that 
I  do  not  expect  nor  believe  can  occur. 

BY  THE  SPIRIT  OF  THE  LORD 

The  Lord  in  his  scripture  tells  us  that  no  one  can  come  to  this  land 
unless  he  be  brought  or  directed  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  so  he 
has  brought  this  people  here.  He  brought  the  faith  of  Ithe  devoted 
Puritans  of  New  England;  he  brought  the  patriotism  of  the  Dutch  at 
New  York;  he  brought  the  gallantry  of  the  cavaliers  of  Virginia;  the 
light-hearted  energy  of  the  French  of  New  Orleans.  Just  the  kind  of 
composite  body  of  men  to  establish  a  government  that  could  not  be 
dominated  by  any  particular  race  or  tongue,  but  made  composite,  that 
all  men  might  be  welcomed  to  it,  live  under  and  enjoy  its  privileges. 

ARMY  THREATENS 

And  so  the  government  has  struggled  on.  From  the  very  beginning 
the  ship  of  state  has  been  at  times  upon  a  stormy  sea.  With  the  dis- 
missal of  the  army  after  the  surrender  of  Lord  Cornwallis  at.Yorktown 
the  soldiers  were  discharged.  .There  was  no  money  with  which  to  pay 
them.  They  were  in  open  ;revolt.  Generals  in  the  army  accused  Wash- 
ington of  being  the  author  of  all  their  troubles.  They  would  have  made 
him  king  and  disregarded  the  confederacy  of  states  which  formed  the 
Union.  ,  They  threatened  to  march  against  the  Congress  which  was  in 
session  at  Philadelphia,  and  it  became  necessary  to  remove  it  to  Princeton. 

Now  let  me  read  something  that  I  want  you  to  hear.  While  these 
men  were  assembled  together  in  secret  conclave,  Washington  unex- 
pectedly walked  into  the  room  where  they  were  seated.  Fiske  says : 
"Washington  suddenly  came  into  the  meeting  and  amidst  profound 
silence  broke  forth  in  a  most  eloquent  and  profound  speech.  All  were 
hushed  by  that  majestic  presence  and  those  solemn  tones.  He  pleaded 
for  tolerance,  for  patience,  for  trust  in  the  newly  born  government  which 
would  in  the  end  pay  them  that  which  it  owed.  They  listened,  the 
soldiers  listened,  hesitated  and  yielded  to  the  irresistible  presence  of  the 
man  who  more  than  any  other  had  made  the  establishment  of  the  nation 
possible." 

I  revere  this  man.  To  me  he  has  been  a  man  of  destiny,  a  prophet 
if  we  have  ever  had  one.  I  read  frequently  his  last  address  to  the  Amer- 
ican people.  It  is  a  treasure  house  of  wisdom,  of  prophecy,  of  political 
philosophy. 

PERPLEXING  SITUATIONS 

Our  government  is  now  very  much  in  the  condition  that  it  was  at 
that  early  time.  Demands  are  made  upon  it  which,  are  exceedingly 
difficult  to  comply  with.  The  soldiers  of  our  country  are  in  an  ugly- 
mood  because  their  requests  are  not  granted.  :  The  resources  of  the 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


109 


country  are  not  sufficient  to  meet  the  demands  made  upon  it,  notwith- 
standing the  great  increase  in  taxes  which  has  recently  been  levied. 
The  bulletin  boards,  while  this  conference  has  been  in  session,  have 
announced  that  the  budget  of  the  government  is  still  (five  hundred  million 
dollars  short  of  balance.  What  is  the  result  going  to  be  ?  I  do  not 
know ;  I  do  not  want  to  assume  the  responsibility  of  indicating,  but  I 
do  know  that  there  are  some,  things  which  will  help.  I  do  know  that 
Elder  Richards  this  afternon  has  declared  to  you  in  jplain  terms  some 
of  the  things  that  must  be  accomplished.  There  is  about  ten  billions  of 
dollars  of  gold  in  the  world.  Our  national  debt  is  twenty  billions  of 
dollars.  What  the  debt  of  other  nations  of  the  world  is  I  do  not  know, 
I  have  not  taken  ,  the  time  to  determine,  but  this  I  do  know,  that  the 
World  war  cost  about  two  hundred  billions  of  dollars,  and  that  does  not 
take  into  consideration  the  amount  which  was  paid  for  the  restoration 
of  property  destroyed,  nor  does  it  take  into  consideration  the  fact  that 
I  believe  nearly  ten  millions  of  men,  if  J  remember  the  figures  correctly, 
were  either  killed  or  permanently  disabled  and  taken  away  from  the 
forces  which  create  the  industries  of  the  world.  So  that  altogether  I 
calculate  that  at  least  two  hundred  and  fifty  billions  of  dollars  was  the 
cost  of  that  great  war.  Will  the  debt  ever  be  paid  ?  It  never  will.  That 
goes  without  saying.  Some  part  of  it  may  be,  I  -do  not  know.  No  one 
will  deny  .the  fact  that  the  government  at  present  is  confronted  with 
perplexing  situations,  questions  of  great  import.  How  they  are  to  be 
solved  men  appear  not  to  know,  and  I  do  not  know.  One  thing  that 
I  do  know,  is  that  the  American  people  are  capable  of  solving  these 
problems  if  the  voice  of  the  'people  could  be  heard.  I  have  faith  in  the 
soul  of  these  American  people  which  God  has  brought  to  this  land.  He 
has  said,  and  I  am  only  repeating  his  words,  that  the  nation  shall  persist, 
that  it  shall  be  able  to  meet  any  emergency  that  shall  arise  if  it  will  only, 
as  I  have  stated,  have  faith  in  the  God  of  the  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ. 

DISREGARD  FOR  LAW 

It  appears  to  me  that  three  things  are  more  responsible  than  all 
else  for  our  present  condition.  The  first  is  the  unusual  disposition  upon 
the  part  of  many  of  the  citizens  of  our  country  to  disregard  the  obliga- 
tion of  obedience  to  civil  law.  I  do  not  heed  to  quote  these  notes  that 
I  have  here  to  show  you  that  in  the  opinion  of  the  best  thinkers  of  our 
country,  chaos  hangs  over  it  unless  something  can  be  done  to  restrain 
crime  and  the  open  violation  of  law  which  exists  in  the  United  States 
today.  Criminals  sit  upon  juries  where  their  own  friends  are  being 
tried,  while  business  men  and  others  who  should  be  there  decline  or 
avoid  such  service.  Murder  is  committed  in  the  light  of  day.  Murderers 
and  thieves  are  released  from  jail  or  from  courts  by  habeas  corpus 
many  times  before  the  prisoner  ever  reaches  the  bar  of  justice.  Lawless- 
ness is  in  every  city  of  the  land.  Wicked  men  go  out  in  the  darkness 
at  night  like  animals  of  prey,  here  in  our  own  Icity,  seeking  whom  they 
might  devour,  preying  upon  the  innocent  and  unprotected.   The  officers 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  the  law  do  the  best  they  can  to  prevent  it.  We  who  are  citizens  pay 
too  little  attention  to  it  and  give  them  too  little  support.  Just  as  long 
as  prominent  men  in  our  nation,  bankers,  merchants,  business  men,  con- 
gressmen and  legislators  ignore  the  law  themselves,  how  can  they  expect 
that  this  condition  can  be  overcome  ?i  Do  I  exaggerate  when  I  say  that 
men  are  elected  to  office  who  are  unworthy,  and  never  should  have  been 
chosen?  Every  man  who  goes  to  the  Congress  of  the  [United  States 
holds  up  his  hand  and  covenants  with  God  that  he  will  obey  the  Consti- 
tution of  our  country,  and  then  frequently  he  goes  right  out  and  violates 
it.  It  applies  to  men  who  are  sent  up  to  our  legislature.  They  enter 
into  that  covenant  and  then  disregard  it.  I  know  how  I  should  feel  if 
I  did  a  thing  of  that  kind.  I  would  know  that  I  was  a  perjurer  and  I 
would  expect  to  be  impeached  and  sent  home  where  I  belonged.  Some 
such  method  as  that  will  have  to  be  adopted  before  our  house  cleaning 
will  be  complete. 

DISREGARD  FOR  RELIGION  AND  PURSUIT  OF  WEALTH 

In  conclusion,  let  [me  read  some  quotations  that  I  have  made  from 
this  man  whom  we  refer  to  as  the  father  of  our  country.  I  said  there 
were  three  things  responsible  for  this  spirit  of  lawlessness.  Another 
one  is  the  disregard  of  religion  that  is  gradually  but  surely  manifesting 
itself  among  the  people.  Enough  has  been  said  in  this  conference  to 
satisfy  you  that  this  is  not  an  idle  statement  that  I  am  making.  These 
sheets  that  I  have  before  me  are  covered  with  statistics  that  corroborate 
the  truth  of  what  I  say.  The  next  thing  to  be  avoided  is  the  unbridled 
and  unreasonable  pursuit  of  wealth  which  has  characterized  the  people 
of  the  United  States  ever  since  the  World  war  terminated.  I  expect 
that  we  have  made  more  millionaires — Senator  Smoot  will  know  whether 
I  .state  it  correctly  or  not — I  suppose  we  have  made  more  millionaires 
in  the  United  States  since  the  war  than  existed  perhaps  altogether  before 
(Senator  Smoot  confirmed  this  statement).  What  does  that  mean?  It 
means  that  whenever  you  multiply  millionaires  tribulation  comes  to 
someone,  and  as  this  selfish  desire  for  the  accumulation  of  wealth  has 
gone  on  among  certain  people  and  in  certain  sections  other  people  have 
become  poorer  and  poorer,  until  we  have  at  last  reached  the  crisis  in 
which  we  find  ourselves  today. 

QUOTES  WASHINGTON 

Washington  in  this  address  to  which  I  have  referred,  and  I  wish 
every  member  of  the  Church  would  read  it — -not  only  read  it  but  make 
it  a  part  of  the  governing  rule  of  his  life — says : 

"Of  all  the  dispositions  and  habits  which  lead  to  political  prosperity,  religion 
and  morality  are  indispensable  supports.  In  vain  would  that  man  claim  the 
tribute  of  patriotism  who  should  labor  to  subvert  these  great  'pillars  of  human 
happiness,  these  firmest  props  of  the  duties  of  'men  and  citizens.  The  mere 
politician,  equally  with  the  pious  man,  ought  to  respect  and  cherish  them.  A 
volume  could  not  trace  all  their  connections  with  private  and  public  felicity.  Let 
it  simply  be  asked — "  and  I  ask  it  of  you — '"Where  is  the  security  for  property, 
for  reputation,  for  life,  if  the  sense  of  religious  obligation  desert  the  oaths,  which 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS  111 


are  the  instruments  of  investigation  in  courts  of  justice?  And  let  us  with 
caution  indulge  the  supposition  that  morality  can  be  maintained  without  religion. 
Whatever  may  toe  conceded  to  the  influence  of  refined  education  on  minds  of 
peculiar  structure,  reason  and  experience  both  forbid  us  to  expect  that  national 
morality  can  prevail  in  exclusion  of  religious  principle." 

Another  basic  principle:  "The  basis  of  our  political  systems  is  the  right  of 
the  people  to  make  and  alter  their  constitution  or  government.  But  the  constitution 
which  at  any  time  exists,  till  changed  by  an  explicit  act  of  the  people,  is  sacredly 
obligatory  upon  all.  The  very  idea  of  the  power  and  the  right  of  'the  people  to 
establish  government  presupposes  the  duty  of  every  individual  to  obey  the 
established  government. 

"All  obstructions  to  the  execution  of  the  laws,  all  combinations  and  asso- 
ciations, under  whatever  plausible  character,  with  the  real  design  to  direct,  control, 
counteract  or  awe  the  regular  deliberation  and  action  of  the  constituted  author- 
ities, are  destructive  of  this  fundamental  principle,  and  Of  fatal  tendency.  They 
serve  to  organize  faction,  to  give  it  an  artificial  and  extraordinary  force;  to 
put,  in  the  place  of  the  delegated  will  of  the  nation,  the  will  of  a  party,  often  a 
small  but  artful  and  enterprising  minority  of  the  community;  and,  according  to 
the  alternate  triumphs  of  different  parties,  to  make  the  public  administration  the 
mirror  of  ill-concerted  and  incongruous  projects  of  faction,  rather  jthan  the 
organ  of  consistent  and  (wholesome  plans  digested  by  common  counsels,  and 
modified  by  mutual  interests." 

RESPONSIBILITY  OF  CITIZENSHIP 

I  am  going  to  ask  you  this  question,  and  ask  it  in  plainness,  because 
it  appears  to  me  to  be  a  vital  one,  and  if  jl  stand  here  and  express  a 
thought  that  is  wrong,  nevertheless  believing  it  to  be  solemnly  right, 
then  I  have  justified  myself  as  Ezekiel  did  when  he  went  down  to  the 
house  of  Israel.  I  am  asking  myself  this  question :  Is  there  not  some 
responsibility  resting  upon  the  citizenship  of  the  United  States  because 
of  the  indifference  they  have  manifested,  particularly  during  the  past 
decade,  in  regard  to  those  who  are  to  represent  them  in  the  Congress 
of  our  nation,  the  legislatures  of  our  states  and  the  boards  of  direction 
in  the  municipalities  of  those  states  and  counties  ? 

I  believe  I  will  say  it — I  believe  that  in  many  instances  we  have 
become  so  accustomed  to  and  so  committed  to  party  rule,  to  arrange- 
ments made  by  professional  politicians,  regardless  of  the  real  voice  and 
desire  of  the  people,  that  we  have  felt  it  our  duty  to  follow  them  whether 
they  are  right  or  wrong.  Just  a  word  of  solemn  warning :  I  say  to  you 
regardless  of  party  politics,  regardless  of  your  past  affiliations,  in  this 
time  of  extremity,  and  it  is  a  time  of  extremity,  see  to  it  that  honest  men, 
wise  men,  capable  men  are  sent  to  represent  you  in  the  organizations  of 
the  country,  the  bodies  which  formulate  our  laws  and  appoint  the  men 
who  administer  them.  You  know  that  the  constitution ,  of  the  United 
States  gives  Congress  certain  privileges  and  rights.  There  are  certain 
other  sacred  privileges  and  rights  that  it  does  not  confer  upon  them 
and  that  they  should  not  be  permitted  to  overstep.  They  formulate  and 
pass  the  laws  which  govern  our  lives,  control  pur  property,  proclaim 
peace  or  war.  The  administration  of  those  laws  that  they  pass  is  limited. 
The  administration  goes  to  the  administrative  bodies. 

FEARS  PATERNAL  GOVERNMENT 

I  fear  this,  that  under  existing  conditions  we  are  gradually  drifting 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


i 


toward  a  paternal  government,  a  government  which  will  so  intrench  itself 
that  the  people  will  become  powerless  to  disrupt  it,  in  which  the  lives 
and  liberty  of  the  people  at  large  may  be  jeopardized.  They  are  pouring 
millions  of  dollars  in  this  time  of  need  into  sources  for  the  benefit  of  the 
people  and  it  is  a  great  benefit  and  perhaps  salvation,  but  it  is  going  to 
result  in  this — I  am  going  to  make  this  statement — that  if  the  present 
policy  is  continued  it  will  not  be  long  until  the  government  will  be  in 
the  banking  business,  it  will  be  in  the  farming  business,  it  will  be  in  the 
cattle  and  sheep  business,  for  many  of  these  debts  will  never  be  paid. 
That  will  mean  the  appointment  of  innumerable  agencies.  The  govern- 
ment now  is  overloaded  with  commissions  and  agencies,  some  of  them 
administering  the  very  laws  that  Congress  itself  has  enacted.  Someone 
else  should  be  administering  those  laws.  If  you  want  to  save  yourselves 
from  the  bondage  of  debt  and  political  influences  which  are  not  of  your 
own  choosing  I  ask  you  to  think  of  what  I  have  said. 

LEGISLATORS  OF  EARLY  DAYS 

Oh,  I  remember  those  old  legislative  bodies  which  assembled  in 
Utah.  I  knew  the  men  that  were  in  them.  They  were  men  of  faith, 
men  who  taught  me  faith  in  a  living  God,  that  he  is  the  same  good 
heavenly  Father  that  he  ever  was  and  will  watch  over  and  bless  righteous 
people  wherever  they  are.  They  taught  me  obedience  to  the  laws  of  my 
country.  They  taught  me  patriotism  to  my  country  and  to  this  govern- 
ment of  which  I  am  speaking ;  that  it  was  dearer  to  me  than  life  itself ; 
that  it  should  be  defended ;  that  it  should  be  protected,  not  only  from 
enemies  from  without,  but  enemies  from  within.  They  are  the  most 
dangerous  enemies  of  all.  And  I  have  never  seen  a  moment  in  my  life 
that  I  did  not  stand  ready  to  give  it  that  protection.  I  am  ready  now, 
as  old  as  I  am,  and  I  always  have  been,  not  only  to  say  the  thing  but 
to  do  it.  I  will  not  be  walked  over  rough  shod  by  the  lawless  element 
that  is  now  seeking  to  get  control  of  this  country. 

GIVES  BLESSING 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  keep  you  in  the  path  of 
rectitude,  keep  you  true  to  the  Church,  to  the  state  and  to  each  other, 
and  some  means  will  come  by  which  we  will  be  able  to  pay  these  debts 
and  relieve  ourselves.  We  may  be  leveled  down  before  that,  and  I  do 
not  know  but  that  would  be  a  good  thing.  We  would  all  be  very  much 
alike.  The  prophet  Isaiah  tells  us  that  it  shall  be  "as  with  the  people, 
so  with  the  priest ;  as  with  the  servant,  so  with  his  master ;  as  with  the 
buyer,  so  with  the  seller ;  as  with  the  lender,  so  with  the  borrower ;  as 
with  the  taker  of  usury,  so  with  the  giver  of  usury  to  him."  And  we 
are  nearing  that  condition  now.  I  do  not  know  who  is  the  worse  off 
today,  the  banker  who  is  lending  money,  or  the  person  to  whom  he 
lends  it. 

God  bless  you,  is  my  humble  prayer,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


/ 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS  113 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  will  now  present  the  authorities  of  the 
Church.    He  is  the  Clerk  of  the  Conference. 

As  you  know,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  there  are  two  vacancies  in 
the  presiding  authorities  of  the  Church — a  Counselor  to  the  President 
and  a  Presiding  Patriarch.  Neither  of  these  vacancies  will  be  filled  at 
this  conference.  I  am  sure  you  will  agree  with  me,  when  you  know  all 
of  the  reasons  connected  with  this,  that  the  right  thing  has  been  done 
in  deferring  action  upon  this  one  matter. 

The  General  Authorities  and  Officers  and  General  Auxiliary  Offi- 
cers of  the  Church  were  then  presented  and  sustained  in  their  offices  and 
callings  by  the  unanimous  vote  of  the  large  assembly,  as  follows : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 


FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthony  W.  Ivins,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  James  E.  Talmage 

Reed  Smoot  Stephen  L.  Richards 

George  Albert  Smith  Richard  R.  Lyman 

George  F.  Richards  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

David  O.  McKay  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency  and  the  Twelve  Apostles 
as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 


TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  pf  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  ' 

FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  (SEVENTY 

iBrigham  ,H.  Roberts 
Jonathan  G.  Kimball'  Charles  H.  Hart 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Levi  Edgar  Young 

Joseph  Wl  McMurrin  Antoine  R.  Ivins 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  !OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  'Smith,  with  the  following  assistants :  Andrew 
Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  and  A.  William  Lund. 

CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant 

Anthony  W.  Ivins  David  O.  McKay 

Willard  Young  Stephen  L.  Richards 

Rudger  Clawson  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Joseph  F.  Merrill  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Adam  S.  Bennion 
Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER  OF  EDUCATION 

Joseph  F.  Merrill 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Henry  H.  Rolapp  Orval  W.  Adams  John  W.  Hart 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor;  B.  Cecil  Gates,  Asst.  Conductor; 
David  A.  Smith,  President. 

ORGANISTS 

Edward  P.  Kimball  Alexander  Shreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

CLERK  OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Joseph  Anderson 
GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Louise  Y.  Robison,  President 
Amy  Brown  Lyman,  First  Counselor 
Julia  A.  Child,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


115 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

David  O.  McKay,  General  Superintendent 
Stephen /L.  Richards,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
George  D.  Pyper,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Albert  iSmith,  General  Superintendent 
Richard  R.  Lyman,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  LADIES'  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Ruth  May  Fox,  President 
Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  First  Counselor 
Clarissa  A.  Beesley,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  Superintendent 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Edna  Harker  Thomas,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

The  Choir  sang  "Inflammatus,"  solo  part  by  Sister  Laurinda  Brewer- 
ton,  after  which  the  congregation  arose  and  sang  with  the  Choir  the 
first  verse  of  "God  be  with  you  till  we  meet  again." 

Elder  Edgar  W.  Jeffery,  Patriarch,  Deseret  Stake,  pronounced  the 
benediction. 

The  Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 

Prof.  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing  at  all  the  meetings 
of  the  Conference.  Edward  P.  Kimball  and  Frank  Wl  Asper  played 
the  accompaniments,  interludes,  etc.,  on  the  great  organ. 

Stenographic  reports  of  the  discourses  were  made  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Authorities  Present   1 

Authorities,  Presentation  of  113 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0   41 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   92 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q   11 


Church  growth  and  activity,  12 — Factors  of  vital  importance  tor 
better  conditions,  12 — Higher  commodity  prices,  13 — Individualism 
and  cooperation,  13 — Individual  effort  and  initiative  necessary,  13 — 
Co-operative  action  in  the  Church,  13 — All  should  use  their  energies, 
14 — The  worthy  and  the  unworthy,  14 — Stakes  organized  for  social 
welfare,  14 — Quantities  of  supplies  gathered,  IS — Children  of  Israel 
told  to  go  forward,  15 — Application  to  present  conditions,  IS — Go 
forward  with  courage  and  faith,  16. 

Brown,  Elder  Hugh  B   71 

Clawson,  President  Rudger    5 

Purpose  in  life,  6 — Predictions  fulfilled,  6 — The  pre-existent  state, 
6 — Spirits  not  complete,  7 — Living  souls,  7 — Purpose  of  life,  8 — How 
to  Ibe  saved,  8 — The  destiny  of  man,  8 — Must  be  born  again,  9 — 
Worldly  things  to  pass  away,  10 — Immortal  things,  10 — The  riches 


of  the  'world,  11. 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting   2 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   21 

General  Authorities  Present    1 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  113 

General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church  -.114 

General  Officers  of  the  Church   ...114 

Grant,  President  Heber  J.,— Absent  account  of  illness   1 

Grant,  President  Heber  J., — Telegraphic  message   3 

Grant,  President  Heber  J., — Telegram   84 

Harris,  Dr.  Franklin  S   49 

Hinckley,  Elder  Alonzo  A   69 

Hinckley,  Elder  Bryant  S   33 

Ivins,  President  Anthoniy  W   2 


President  Grant's  illness,  2— Message  from  the  President,  2— Grati- 
tude for  improved  condition,  3 — Church  out  of  debt,  3 — Progress  in 
the  missions,  3 — Religious  instruction,  4 — Temple  work,  4 — The  work 
of  the  Lord,  4 — Individual  responsibility,  5. 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W   16 

To  relieve  distress,  16. 

Ivins,  President  Anthony- W   21 

Deviation  from  usual  procedure  Sunday  morning,  21. 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Ivins,  President  Anthony  W  101 

Introducing  Dr.  Elmer  G.  Peterson,  101. 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W  105 

Ezekiel  rebuked,  105 — Responsibility  of  leadership,  105 — A  marvelous 
change,  106— The  Mormon  pioneers,  106— Destiny  foretold,  106— God, 
the  author  of  it,  107 — By  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  108 — Army  threatens, 
108 — Perplexing  situations,  108 — Disregard  for  law,  109— Disregard 
for  religion  and  pursuit  of  wealth,  110 — Quotes  Washington,  110 — 
Responsibility  of  citizenship,  111 — Fears  paternal  government,  111 — 
Legislators  of  early  days,  112 — Gives  blessing,  112. 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W  113 

Vacancies  in  Presiding  Authorities,  113 — Relative  to  presentation  of 
Authorities,  113. 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   81 

Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden    17 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   51 

Lawlessness,  disrespect  for  law  and  anarchy,  51 — Not  good  for  man, 
52 — Alcohol  a  narcotic,  52 — Loyalty  to  Eighteenth  Amendment,  52 — 
Giving  up  food  and  clothing  for  drink,  52 — "We  are  at  War !",  53 — 
The  law  breaker  of  today,  53 — The  drinker  is  responsible,  53 — Guilty 
public  officials,  53 — Buying  votes  with  liquor,  54 — Functions  where  law 
is  broken,  54 — Vote  only  for  those  who  respect  the  law,  54 — Reflection 
on  state,  54 — God  have  mercy  on  us,  54 — Stand  for  America,  55 — By 
the  blood  of  the  Revolution,  55 — "Help  me,  0  Father !",  55 — Sus- 
taining the  law,  55 — I  stand  with  leaders,  56 — High-class  citizenship, 
56 — Youth  speaks,  56 — Determined  young  manhood,  56 — Faith  in 
Almighty  God,  57. 

McKay,  Elder  David  0   64 

Our  greatest  obligation,  64 — Attitude  of  the  Nation's  President,  64 — 
In  the  realm  of  delinquency,  65 — Co-operative  effort  needed,  65 — The 
responsibility  of  parents,  66 — The  school,  a  responsible  factor,  67 — 
The  influence  of  the  Church,  67 — Reaching  the  wayward,  67 — Co- 
operation needed,  68. 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F   3,5 

Teaching  by  example,  36 — Not  good  Latter-day  Saints,  36 — People 
who  can  pay  but  will  not,  37 — The  word  of  a  "Mormon",  37 — Our 
responsibility  as  citizens,  38 — Know  the  truth  and  follow  it,  38 — 
Misleading  propaganda,  39 — Motivated  by  selfishness,  39 — Seeking 
government  help,  40 — Live  blamlessly  before  the  Lord,  40 — Not 
through  the  wisdom  of  men,  41. 

Moyle,  Elder  James  H   60 

Peterson,  Dr.  Elmer  G  101 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   44 

One  way  of  relieving  distress,  44 — Through  failure  to  observe  counsel, 
45 — From  a  small  beginning,  46 — Fasting  and  offerings  closely  as- 
sociated, 47 — Fasting  and  offerings  established,  47 — If  strictly  ob- 
served, 47 — An  obligation  upon  all,  48 — In  'regard  to  tithing,  48 — 
Doers  of  the  word,  49. 


INDEX 


119 


Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   96 

Serious  effects  of  financial  worry,  97 — Never  repudiate,  97 — See 
creditors  and  arrange  with  them,  98— By  persevering'  and  consistent 
action,  98 — By  making  necessary   adjustments,  98 — Extravagance 
deplored,  99 — Investigation  by   taxpayers,  99 — Living   within  our 
means,  99 — The  need  of  private  charity,  100 — Material  assistance 


indispensable,  100. 

Roberts,  Elder  Brigham  H   93 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   64 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting   44 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert   21 


Grateful  for  blessings,  22 — Devotion  and  sacrifice  of  the  Pioneers, 
22 — Respect  for  the  name  of  Deity,  22 — The  Sabbath  day,  23— 
"Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother",  23 — The  sacredness  of  human 
life,  24— Purity  of  life,  24 — Pitfalls  of  the  adversary,  24— "Thou 
shalt  not  stealv,  25 — The  reputation  of  others,  26 — That  which  is 
thy  neighbor's,  26 — Keeping  in  the  Lord's  territory,  27 — For  the  pro- 
tection of  our  Father's  children,  27 — Servants  of  the  Lord,  28 — To 
teach  the  people,  28 — The  attitude  of  the  evil  doer,  28 — The  cunning 
of  the  adversary,  29 — Our  responsibility,  30. 


Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   88 

Men's  hearts  failing  them,  88 — Responsibility  for  the  depression,  88 — 
Have  forsaken  God,  89— The  warning  voice,  90 — Fulfilment  of 
prophecies,  90 — The  signs  of  the  times,  91 — Before  his  second 
coming,  91. 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed    84 

The  saints  in  Washington,  85 — Testimony  through  prayer,  85 — The 
experience  of  Gandhi,  86— The  condition,  religiously,  87 — The  power 
of  prayer  recognized,  87. 

Talmage,  Elder  James  E   76 

Religion  a  support,  76 — Present  condition  foretold,  76 — Failure  to 
understand,  76— Human  wisdom  may  be  at  fault,  77 — Body,  mind  and 
spirit,  78 — Spirituality  neglected,  78— An  instance,  78 — Support  under 
adversity,  79 — Liberality  toward  others,  80 — Value  of  opposition,  80. 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   96 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting   85 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   30 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   57 


THE  FALLING  AWAY 

By  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

This  new  work  is  a  ringing  challenge  to  Christendom  and  a  frank 
indictment  of  the  multifarious  creeds  that  are  an  outgrowth  of  the  disin- 
tegrated Apostolic  Church.  It  shows  most  conclusively  and  brilliantly  that 
all  the  churches  had  departed  from  the  true  pattern  of  Christ  and  lost  the 
authority  completely,  long  before  the  New  Dispensation  was  ushered  in 
through  the  instrumentality  of  Joseph  Smith. 

Yet  the  motive  of  the  author  is<  not  to  tear  down,  but  rather  to  build 
up;  had  there  been  no  "falling  away,"  the  claim  of  the  prophet  of  the  New 
Dispensation  would  have  been  an  imposture;  if  there  was  a  "falling  away," 
however,  his  claim  is  credible.  It  was  to  establish  this  fact  sharply  and 
conclusively  that  these  radio  addresses  were  given.  All  who  heard  Elder 
Roberts  or  who  will  read  these  published  discourses,  will  agree  that  be  has 
accomplished  the  end  in  a  scholarly  and  convincing  manner. 

Though  most  of  the  discourses  deal  with  eras  of  apostasy  and  centuries 
of  discord,  the  ultimate  message  of  the  book  is  one  of  hope  and  salvation 
for  the  world.  The  three  discourses  on  the  Restoration  read  like  the  happy 
outcome  of  an  otherwise  tragic  story.  You  feel  at  the  end  that  the  author 
has  performed  a  necessary  but  melancholy  task,  only  that  he  might  invest 
with  true  meaning  the  unique  claim  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

The  Appendix  of  the  new  work  is  an  answer  to  Catholic  charges  that 
the  author  had  been  unfair  in  his  use  of  evidence  and  presentation  of  his- 
toric facts.  His  reply  is  given  with  enough  zestful  detail  to  leave  the  reader 
without  a  single  doubt. 

Price  $1.50 


Sunday  Night  Talks 
by  Radio 

By  DR.  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

In  answer  to  an  insistent  demand  the  1930  series  of  L.  D.  S.  Radio 
Addresses  given  by  Dr.  James  E.  Tannage  has  now  been  issued  in  regular 
book  form  under  the  title  of  "Sunday  Night  Talks  By  Radio."  It  is 
printed  on  a  good  grade  of  book  paper  from  type  especially  set  for  this 
edition,  and  durably  bound  in  beautiful  marblex  cloth. 

This  book  will  make  a  beautiful  as  well  as  practical  and  useful  ad- 
dition to  the  library  of  any  member  of  the  Church.  It  will  be  especially 
valuable  to  missionaries  or  prospective  missionaries. 

Price  $1.50  Postpaid 

Send  your  order  now  to  the 

Deseret  Book  Company 

"The  Home  of  Good  Books" 
44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


The  Life  Story  of 
Brigham  Young 

By  SUSA  YOUNG  GATES  AND  LEAH  D.  WIDTSOE 
WITH  A  FOREWORD  BY  HONORABLE  REED  SMOOT 

"This  book  presents  the  life  story  of  a  New  England  cabinet-maker, 
who,  well  into  his  thirties,  entered  upon  a  career  that  made  him  an  empire- 
builder  of  the  West;  the  founder  of  a  hundred  cities;  the  governor  of  one 
of  the  territories  of  the  United  States;  and  one  of  the  outstanding  figures 
of  the  nineteenth  century." 

Thus  does  Senator  Smoot  begin  his  enthusiastic  foreword  to  this  notable 
biography. 

A  Special  Edition.   Beautifully  and  Substantially  Bound  in  Cloth. 

Price  $2.50 


DO  MEN  BELIEVE  WHAT  THEIR 
CHURCH  PRESCRIBES? 

By  RTJLON  S.  HOWELLS 

A  comprehensive  yet  concise  study  of  leading  Christian  religions  and 
their  fundamental  subjects,  carefully  and  painstakingly  compiled  as  a  guide 
for  all  thinking  Christians. 

The  book  contains  164  pages  and  a  large  folded  chart.  The  chart 
contains  the  views  of  ten  of  the  outstanding  religious  denominations  on 
twenty-three  of  the  outstanding  fundamentals  of  the  Christian  Doctrines. 

The  material  for  this  chart  was  furnished  by  officers  and  ministers  of 
the  various  churches  involved,  and  is  therefore  authoritative  in  all  of  its 
statements. 

Price  $1.50 

Published  and  Distributed  by  the 

Deseret  Book  Company 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


