ONE  HUNDRED  NINTH 

SEMI-ANNUAL 

(Conference 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY.  UTAH 

October  7,  8  and  9, 1938 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  oi  Jesus  Christ  oi  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

PRINTS)  IN  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA 


FOR  YOUR  CONSIDERATION 

The  OLD  WITH  the  NEW  and  the  NEW  WITH  the  OLD 

JhsL  (Book  ofc  yfl&unofL 

The  latest  edition  comes  to  you  in  four  different  bindings.  Of  course  the  text 
remains  the  same. 

Missionary  Edition  $  .50 

Cloth  Binding.  Embossed   1.50 

Full  Morocco   3.00 

3>/wnL  (plowboip  io  (pAoph&L 

AND 

VftjolhsiA.  SioAWL  J/wm.  Jthst  (Book  ofc  TfljoJtnw/L 

By  WILLIAM  A.  MORTON 

This  delightful  volume  republished  as  a  reiteration  of  the  stories  of  the  stories 
that  children  love  to  hear  and  to  read. 

Price  in  Cloth  $1.25 

J6u/~  io  JJwologif 

By  PARLEY  P.  PRATT 
(Reprint  waranted  by  demand) 

"Aims  to  embody  in  a  concise  and  somewhat  original  manner  and  style, 
a  general  view  of  the  Science  of  Theology  as  gathered  from  revelation,  history, 
prophecy,  reason  and  analogy." 

Price   _  $1.00 

JhsL  UJohrL  ofc  UthdowL 

By  JOHN  A.  WIDTOSE  and  LEAH  D.  WIDTSOE 

"A  Modern  Interpretation  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  showing  that  the  learning 
of  the  last  century  confirms  the  teachings  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  to  enlighten 
the  individual  towards  a  conservation  of  health." 

Price  in  Cloth  Binding.  $1.25 

In  Paper  Binding   50 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY.  UTAH 


One  Hundred  Ninth  Semi-Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  and  Ninth  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday  and  Sunday,  October  7,  8,  and 
9,  1938. 

The  proceedings  of  the  Conference  were  broadcast  by  radio,  through 
the  courtesy  of  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City,  for  the  benefit  of  the 
public  generally. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  at  each  of  the  sessions. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and 
David  O.  McKay. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles :  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Joseph  Fielding 
Smith,  Stephen  L  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  John 
A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Charles  A.  Callis,  and  Albert  E.  Bowen. 

.  Associate  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Sylvester  Q. 
Cannon. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy:  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Levi  Edgar 
Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  John  H.  Taylor,*  Richard 
L.  Evans.** 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  LeGrand  Richards,  Marvin  O.  Ashton, 
and  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants:  Andrew  Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 

Members  of  the  General  Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  counselors,  Presidents  of  Temples, 
Patriarchs,  High  Priests,  Seventies  and  Elders  from  all  parts  of  the 
Church. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education,  and  General,  Stake, 
and  Ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations. 

Mission  Presidents :  Frank  Evans,  Eastern  States ;  Bryant  S.  Hinck- 
ley, Northern  States;  David  A.  Broadbent,  North  Central  States;  Carl 
F.  Eyring,  New  England;  Elias  S.  Woodruff,  Central  States;  Merrill 
.D.  Clayson,  Southern  States;  El  Ray  L.  Christiansen,  Texas;  William 


*Rufus  K.  Hardy  absent  on  account  of  illness. 

**Richard  L.  Evans  sustained  as  a  member  of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 
to  fill  the  vacancy  caused  by  the  death  of  Jonathan  G.  Kimball. 


2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  7  First  Day 


T.  Tew,  Jr.,  East  Central  States ;  William  W.  Seegmiller,  Western 
States ;  W.  Aird  MacDonald,  California ;  Preston  Nibley,  Northwestern 
States;  David  A.  Smith,  Canada;  A.  Lorenzo  Anderson,  Mexico; 
Orlando  C.  Williams,  Spanish- American ;  Joseph  J.  Cannon,  Temple 
Block,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  first  session  of  the  Conference  convened  Friday  morning, 
October  7,  at  10  o'clock. 

When  the  time  arrived  for  the  opening  of  the  Conference  the  large 
Tabernacle  auditorium  and  galleries  were  rilled  with  people  who  had  as- 
sembled from  the  various  Stakes  and  Missions  of  the  Church. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  and  announced  that  the  Relief 
Society  Singing  Mothers,  Wade  N.  Stephens,  Conductor,  would  furnish 
musical  numbers  for  this  session. 

The  opening  song,  "High  on  the  Mountain  Top,"  was  sung  by  the 
congregation  and  the  Singing  Mothers. 

Elder  Marion  G.  Romney,  President  of  the  Bonneville  Stake,  offered 
the  invocation. 

"The  Lord's  Prayer"  (Music  by  B.  Cecil  Gates)  was  sung  by  the 
Singing  Mothers. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  am  very  happy  indeed  to  meet  with  the  Saints  again  in  General 
Conference.  I  hope  and  pray  that  the  prayer  which  has  been  offered 
will  be  heard  and  answered  and  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us  during  this 
session  of  our  conference. 

SELECTIONS  FROM   "TREASURES  I  WOULD  SHARE" 

I  have  a  little  book  in  which  I  have  recorded  from  time  to  time  for 
many  years  items  that  have  very  profoundly  impressed  me.  Last  Christ- 
mas I  wrote  a  little  note  to  friends  and  had  it  printed,  and  sent  a  very 
small  part  of  this  book  of  several  hundred  pages  to  over  6,000  of  my 
friends — Bishops  of  wards  and  others — and  I  have  decided  to  read  here 
today  a  part  of  what  was  in  my  Christmas  greeting.  I  wish  that  all 
that  is  in  my  greeting  might  be  read  by  all  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
As  our  conference  proceedings  are  to  be  published,  that  is  my  excuse  for 
reading  a  portion  of  this  book  entitled,  "Treasures  I  Would  Share," 
which  was  distributed  by  me  for  Christmas  of  1937. 

J.  G.  Holland,  one  of  the  fine  poets  of  our  country,  was  born  in 
1819,  and  passed  away  in  1881.   These  are  two  verses  from  his  writings : 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


GOD  GIVE  US  MEN 

God  give  us  men.    A  time  like  this  demands 

Strong  minds,  great  hearts,  true  faith  and  ready  hands. 
God  give  us  men.  Men  whom  the  lust  of  office  does  not  kill ! 

Men  whom  the  spoils  of  office  cannot  buy ; 
Men  who  possess  opinions  and  a  will; 

Men  who  have  honor;  men  who  will  not  lie; 
Men  who  can  stand  before  a  demagogue 

And  damn  his  treacherous  flatteries  without  winking. 

Tall  men,  sun-crowned,  who  live  above  the  fog, 

In  public  duty  and  in  private  thinking. 
For  while  the  rabble,  with  their  thumb-worn  creeds, 

Their  large  professions  and  their  little  deeds, 
Mingle  in  selfish  strife — lo !  Freedom  weeps ; 

Wrong  rules  the  land  and  waiting  Justice  sleeps. 

—J.  G.  Holland  (1819-1881). 

"Nicholas  Murray  Butler  has  figured  that  money  spent  for  the 
World  War  could  have  built  a  $2,500.00  house,  placed  in  it  $1,000.00 
worth  of  furniture,  put  it  on  five  acres  of  land  worth  $100.00  an  acre  and 
have  given  this  to  every  family  in  the  United  States,  Canada,  Australia, 
England,  Wales,  Ireland,  Scotland,  France,  Belgium,  Germany  and 
Russia ;  could  have  given  to  each  city  of  20,000  or  over  in  each  of  these 
countries  a  five-million  dollar  library  and  a  ten-million  dollar  university ; 
and  could  still  with  what  was  left  set  aside  a  sum  at  5  per  cent  that 
would  provide  a  $1,000.00  yearly  salary  for  over  125,000  teachers  and 
a  like  number  of  nurses." 

The  Constitution  of  the  United  States  is  a  glorious  standard;  it  is 
founded  in  the  wisdom  of  God.  It  is  a  heavenly  banner ;  it  is,  to  all  those 
who  are  privileged  with  the  sweets  of  liberty,  like  the  cooling  shades 
and  refreshing  waters  of  a  great  rock  in  a  weary  and  thirsty  land.  It  is 
like  a  great  tree  under  whose  branches  men  from  every  clime  can  be 
shielded  from  the  burning  rays  of  the  sun. — Joseph  Smith. 


AGE 

Age  is  a  quality  of  mind : 

If  your  dreams  you've  left  behind, 

If  hope  is  cold, 
If  you  no  longer  look  ahead, 
If  your  ambition's  fires  are  dead, 

Then  you  are  old. 

But  if  from  life  you  take  the  best, 
And  if  in  life  you  keep  the  zest, 

If  love  you  hold ; 
No  matter  how  the  years  go  by, 
No  matter  how  the  birthdays  fly, 

You  are  not  old. 

WORK  A  BLESSING 

Work  is  what  keeps  people  young.  Loafing  is  what  starts  to  weaken 
them  from  the  time  they  stop  working.    President  Young  was  in  active, 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  7  First  Day 

vigorous  life  when  he  passed  away,  but  appendicitis  ended  his  life.  His 
successor,  John  Taylor  was  seventy-three  years  of  age  when  he  was 
made  the  President  of  the  Church.  John  Taylor's  successor,  Wilford 
Woodruff,  was  eighty-odd  years  of  age  when  he  became  the  President 
of  the  Church,  and  according  to  some,  he  ought  to  have  retired  over 
twenty  years  before  that  time,  and  then  been  supported  on  somebody  else's ' 
money.  Lorenzo  Snow  came  to  the  presidency  of  this  Church  as  active 
as  any  young  man,  and  with  matured  judgment,  at  eighty-five  years  of 
age,  and  when  the  Church  was  in  a  slough  of  despond  financially,  from 
which  he  rescued  it.  During  his  three  years  of  administration,  until  he 
was  eighty-eight  years  of  age,  his  mind  was  as  clear  and  active  as  that 
of  any  man  who  ever  presided  over  this  Church. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  according  to  many  people,  was  two  years  past  the 
age  when  he  should  have  retired,  when  he  became  the  President  of  this 
Church,  and  the  same  is  true  of  me.  Next  month,  according  to  some 
people,  it  will  be  twenty-two  years  since  I  should  have  retired  and  been 
supported  on  someone  else's  money. 

INCIDENT  REGARDING  PRESIDENT  PENROSE 

There  is  nothing  truer  than  that  "Age  is  a  quality  of  mind."  When 
I  was  nearly  fifty  years  of  age  Brother  Charles  W.  Penrose  arrived  in 
Liverpool  to  take  my  place  as  the  president  of  the  European  Mission. 
The  shipping  firm  with  whom  we  had  done  business  for  over  fifty  years 
sent  us  four  tickets  to  the  Shakespeare  Theater.  Brother  Penrose  had 
worked  as  hard  that  day  as  I  had.  Also  a  large  group  of  missionaries 
had  come  with  him  and  there  were  a  lot  of  them  going  home,  also  more 
than  a  hundred  emigrants  were  going  to  America. 

I  turned  to  my  wife  when  these  tickets  came  and  said :  "I  would 
not  go  to  the  finest  theater  on  the  face  of  the  earth.  I  am  tired,  I  am 
going  to  bed  to  sleep.  Take  one  of  the  missionaries  with  you  to  bring 
you  home,  also  two  of  the  daughters  and  use  these  tickets." 

Brother  Penrose  spoke  up  and  said:  "Sister  Grant,  let  the  old  man 
go  to  bed,  I  will  take  you  to  the  theater." 

He  was  only  ( ?)  twenty-five  years  older  than  I.  He  lacked  a  few 
weeks  of  being  seventy-five,  and  I  lacked  a  few  weeks  of  being  fifty. 

The  following  morning  I  took  him  to  see  the  fine  home  that  Presi- 
dent Smith  had  authorized  us  to  buy.  Somebody  asked  the  man  who  was 
moving  the  furniture  out  to  guess  our  ages.  He  guessed  me  to  be 
sixty-five,  and  Brother  Penrose  sixty.  I  said :  "I  have  heard  that  a  man 
was  no  older  than  he  felt,"  and  there  is  a  world  of  truth  in  that,  don't 
forget  it.  "I  felt  so  old  that  I  went  to  bed  last  night  to  sleep  and  this 
old  gentleman  twenty-five  years  older  than  I  took  my  wife  and  daughters 
to  the  theater." 

When  I  was  up  in  Scotland  just  a  few  weeks  before  Brother  Penrose 
arrived,  a  good  old  sister  asked  me :  "How  old  are  you,  Brother  Grant?" 
I  told  her  that  if  I  lived  so  many  weeks  I  would  be  fifty. 
She  said:  "Ah,  nay,  nay,  never  see  sixty-five  again." 
The  next  Sunday  I  thought  I  would  get  those  three  "dabs  between 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


the  eyes"  corrected,  so  I  asked  the  president  of  the  Birmingham  Branch, 
as  I  remember  it,  who  he  thought  was  older,  Brother  Penrose  or  myself. 

He  said:  "The  idea  of  asking  such  a  ridiculous  question.  Any- 
body can  see  that  you  are  very  much  older  than  Brother  Penrose." 

I  hit  the  table  and  said :  "That  settles  it.  No  old  man  shall  ever  take 
my  wife  to  the  theater  again."  And  they  never  have. 

Oliver  Goldsmith  (The  "Deserted  Village")  : 

111  fares  the  land  to  hastening  ills  a  prey, 
Where  wealth  accumulates,  and  men  decay : 
Princes  and  lords  may  flourish,  or  may  fade ; 
A  breath  can  make  them,  as  a  breath  has  made 
But  a  bold  peasantry,  their  country's  pride, 
When  once  destroyed,  can  never  be  supplied. 

A  time  there  was,  ere  England's  griefs  began, 
When  every  rood  of  ground  maintained  its  man, 
For  him  light  labor  spread  her  wholesome  store, 
Just  gave  what  life  required,  but  gave  no  more : 
His  best  companions,  innocence  and  health ; 
And  his  best  riches,  ignorance  of  wealth. 


THRIFT 

The  prudent,  penniless  beginner  in  the  world  labors  for  wages  for 
awhile,  saves  a  surplus  with  which  to  buy  land  or  tools  for  himself,  then 
labors  for  himself  another^ while,  and  at  length  hires  another  new  beginner 
to  help  him.  This  is  the  just  and  generous  and  prosperous  system  which 
opens  the  way  to  all,  gives  hope  to  all,  and  consequent  energy  and  improve- 
ment of  condition  to  all. — Abraham  Lincoln. 

When  a  man  like  Henry  Ford  starts  out  with  a  few  tools,  and 
finally  employs  125,000  people  who  support  probably  a  half  milliorr 
people,  he  ought  not  to  be  penalized  because  of  the  marvelous  work  he 
has  done  for  the  benefit  of  humanity. 

MY  CREED 

To  live  as  gently  as  I  can ; 
To  be,  no  matter  where,  a  man ; 
To  take  what  comes  of  good  or  ill, 
And  cling  to  faith  and  honor  still ; 
To  do  my  best,  and  let  that  stand 
The  record  of  my  brain  and  hand ; 
And  then,  should  failure  come  to  me, 
Still  work  and  hope  for  victory. 

To  have  no  secret  place  wherein 
I  stoop  unseen  to  shame  or  sin ; 
To  be  the  same  when  I'm  alone 
As  when  my  every  deed  is  known ; 
To  live  undaunted,  unafraid 
Of  any  step  that  I  have  made; 
To  be  without  pretense  or  sham 
Exactly  what  men  think  I  am. 

To  leave  some  simple  work  behind 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


To  keep  my  having  lived  in  mind; 
If  enmity  to  aught  I  show, 
To  be  an  honest,  generous  foe; 
To  play  my  little  part,  nor  whine 
That  greater  honors  are  not  mine. 
This  I  believe  is  all  I  need 
For  my  philosophy  and  creed. 


You  will  never  get  me  to  support  a  measure  which  I  believe  to  be 
wrong,  although  by  doing  so  I  may  accomplish  that  which  I  believe  to 
be  right. — Abraham  Lincoln. 

And  now  there  is  one  more  lesson  for  us  to  learn,  the  climax  of  all 
the  rest;  namely,  to  make  a  personal  application  to  ourselves  of  every- 
thing which  we  know. 

There  is  no  need  of  your  reading  the  Word  of  Wisdom  unless  you 
make  application  of  it  to  your  lives. 

Unless  we  master  this  lesson,  and  act  on  it,  other  lessons  are  virtually 
useless  and  thus  robbed  of  their  essential  glory.  The  only  living  end  or 
aim  of  everything  we  experience,  of  every  truth  we  are  taught,  is  the 
practical  use  we  make  of  it  for  the  enrichment  of  the  soul,  the  attuning  of 
the  thoughts  and  actions,  the  exaltation  of  life.  When  we  DO  [and  "do" 
is  in  capitals  and  ought  to  be  underscored  in  addition]  "what  we  KNOW" 
[that  is  also  in  capitals]  then  first  does  it  put  on  vital  luster  and  become 
divinely  precious. — William  Algers. 


For  several  years  before  his  death,  Mr.  Daniel  S.  Ford,  the  pro- 
prietor, editor  and  builder  of  the  Youth's  Companion,  because  of  delicate 
health,  did  his  work  and  managed  his  mammoth  business  from  a  little 
room  in  his  home  in  one  of  the  beautiful  parks  of  Boston.  When  loving 
hands  cleared  the  plain  but  convenient  desk,  there  was  found  in  a  con- 
spicuous place,  much  worn  with  frequent  handling,  the  following  poem. 
If  the  poet  had  intended  to  describe  Mr.  Ford's  daily  words  and  actions, 
he  could  not  have  done  so  in  more  appropriate  language : 


The  bread  that  bringeth  strength  I  want  to  give, 
The  water  pure  that  bids  the  thirsty  live ; 
I  want  to  help  the  fainting  day  by  day; 
I'm  sure  I  shall  not  pass  again  this  way. 

I  want  to  give  the  oil  of  joy  for  tears, 

The  faith  to  conquer  crowding  doubts  and  fears. 

Beauty  for  ashes  may  I  give  alway; 

I'm  sure  I  shall  not  pass  again  this  way. 

I  want  to  give  to  others  hope  and  faith ; 
And  into  angry  hearts  I  want  to  pour 
The  answer  soft  that  turneth  wrath  away; 
I'm  sure  I  shall  not  pass  again  this  way. 


— Edgar  A.  Guest. 


I  SHALL  NOT  PASS  AGAIN  THIS  WAY 


I  want  to  give  to  others,  hope  and  faith, 
I  want  to  do  all  that  the  Master  saith ; 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


1 


<I  want  to  live  aright  from  day  to  day; 
I'm  sure  I  shall  not  pass  again  this  way. 


Not  what  we  give,  but  what  we  share, 

For  the  gift  without  the  giver  is  bare ; 

Who  gives  himself  with  his  alms  feeds  three — 

Himself,  his  hungry  neighbor  and  Me. 

— James  Russell  Lowell.  (From  "Vision  of  Sir  Launfal") 

THREE  LESSONS 

There  are  three  lessons  I  would  write, 

Three  words  as  with  a  burning  pen, 
In  tracing  of  eternal  light 

Upon  the  hearts  of  men. 

Have  faith,  though  clouds  environ  round, 

And  gladness  hides  her  face  in  scorn. 
Put  off  the  darkness  from  thy  brow : 

No  night  but  hath  its  morn. 

Have  hope,  where'er  thy  bark  is  driven, 

The  calm  distorts  the  tempest's  mirth, 
Know  this,  God  rules  the  Hosts  of  Heaven, 

The  inhabitants  of  earth. 

Have  love — not  love  alone  for  one, 

But  man  as  man  thy  brother  call, 
And  scatter  as  the  circling  sun 

Thy  charities  on  all. 

— Fredrick  Schiller. 

I  repeated  that  poem  in  nearly  every  speech  that  I  delivered  while  I 
was  the  chairman  of  the  Utah  Liberty  Loan  Drive  at  the  time  that 
America  raised  six  million  dollars  during  the  World  War,  in  one  cam- 
paign ;  and  I  said :  "The  Kaiser  of  Germany  ought  to  read  that  poem  by 
one  of  his  great  poets — especially,  "God  rules  the  hosts  of  heaven,  the 
inhabitants  of  earth".  I  felt  sure  that  -he  would  go  down  to  defeat  as 
God  does  rule  the  world  and  He  was  not  on  the  Kaiser's  side. 

FAVORITE  HYMNS 

Years  ago  I  suffered  intensely  from  insomnia.  I  have  been  ordered 
to  leave  town  within  twenty-four  hours  or  I  might  go  crazy  for  lack  of 
sleep.  I  have  been  to  California  time  and  time  again  in  early  days  and 
could  sleep  there  three  or  four  nights  in  succession,  twelve  hours  at  a 
time  without  waking  up.  I  learned  while  in  England  to  take  a  nap  after 
my  lunch.  Nearly  every  day  of  my  life  now  I  sleep  an  hour  in  the  middle 
of  the  day.  I  have  had  only  two  severe  attacks  of  insomnia  since  I  re- 
turned over  thirty  years  ago  from  Europe. 

I  learned  to  sing  a  song  or  two,  or  three,  or  four,  or  five,  as  high  as 
ten  when  I  would  wake  up,  and  then  to  get  up  and  take  some  physical 
exercises,  and  take  some  in  bed,  and  try  to  go  to  sleep,  and  failing,  sit 
up  and  talk  to  a  dictaphone  for  an  hour,  and  then  go  back  to  sleep.  This 
morning  I  woke  up  at  half  past  one,  took  exercises  for  three-quarters  of 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  7  First  Day 

an  hour  and  was  still  wide  awake.  Then  I  sang  ten  songs.  I  have  sung 
them  hundreds  and  hundreds  of  times,  and  I  never  sing  them  when  I 
do  not  think  of  what  the  Lord  said  in  a  revelation: 

For  my  soul  delighteth  in  the  song  of  the  heart ;  yea,  the  song  of  the 
righteous  is  a  prayer  unto  me,  and  it  shall  be  answered  with  a  blessing 
upon  their  heads. 

So  in  song  I  prayed  ten  times  this  morning.  I  think  that  I  cannot 
deliver  a  more  valuable  sermon  here  today  than  to  read  these  songs  to 
you. 

THE  TIME  IS  NIGH,  THE  HAPPY  TIME 

The  time  is  nigh,  the  happy  time 
That  great,  expected,  blessed  day, 
When  countless  thousands  of  our  race 
Shall  dwell  with  Christ  and  Him  obey. 

The  prophecies  must  be  fulfilled, 
Though  earth  and  hell  should  dare  oppose; 
The  stone  out  of  the  mountain  cut, 
Though  unobserved,  a  kingdom  grows. 

The  blended  image  soon  shall  fall — 
Brass,  silver,  iron,  gold  and  clay; 
And  superstition's  dreadful  reign 
To  light  and  liberty  give  way. 

In  one  sweet  symphony  of  praise, 
The  Jews  and  Gentiles  will  unite; 
And  infidelity,  o'ercome, 
Return  again  to  endless  night. 

From  east  to  west,  from  north  to  south, 
The  Savior's  kingdom  shall  extend, 
And  every  man  in  every  place 
Shall  find  a  brother  and  a  friend. 

—Parley  P.  Pratt. 

President  Wilford  Woodruff  called  for  this  song  that  I  am  now 
going  to  repeat,  at  least  once  a  month  in  the  meetings  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  held  in  the  Temple:  It  was  his 
favorite. 

GOD  MOVES  IN  A  MYSTERIOUS  WAY 

God  moves  in  a  mysterious  way, 
His  wonders  to  perform; 
He  plants  his  footsteps  in  the  sea, 
And  rides  upon  the  storm. 

Deep  in  unfathomable  mines 
Of  never-failing  skill 
He  treasures  up  his  bright  designs, 
And  works  his  sovereign  will. 

Ye  fearful  saints,  fresh  courage  take, 
The  clouds  ye  so  much  dread 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


Are  big  with  mercy,  and  shall  break 
In  blessings  on  thy  head. 

Judge  not  the  Lord  by  feeble  sense, 
But  trust  him  for  his  grace ; 
Behind  a  frowning  providence 
He  hides  a  smiling  face. 

His  purpose  will  ripen  fast, 
Unfolding  every  hour. 
The  bud  may  have  a  bitter  taste, 
But  sweet  will  be  the  flower. 

Blind  unbelief  is  sure  to  err, 
And  scan  his  works  in  vain; 
God  is  his  own  interpreter, 
And  he  will  make  it  plain. 

— Cowper. 

No  man  had  more  perfect  faith  than  did  Wilford  Woodruff.  He 
acknowledged  the  hand  of  God  in  everything. 

COME  LET  US  ANEW 

Come,  let  us  anew  our  journey  pursue, 

Roll  round  with  the  year, 

And  never  stand  still  till  the  Master  appear. 

His  adorable  will  let  us  gladly  fulfil, 

And  our  talents  improve, 

By  the  patience  of  hope  and  the  labor  of  love. 

Our  life  as  a  dream,  our  time  as  a  stream 
Glides  swiftly  away, 

And  the  fugitive  moment  refuses  to  stay. 
The  arrow  is  flown,  the  moments  are  gone, 
The  Millennial  year 

Presses  on  to  our  view,  and  eternity's  here. 

0  that  each  in  the  day  of  his  coming  may  say, 
"I  have  fought  my  way  through, 

1  have  finished  the  work  thou  didst  give  me  to  do." 
O  that  each  from  his  Lord  may  receive  the  glad  word : 
"Well  and  faithfully  done; 

Enter  into  my  joy  and  sit  down  on  my  throne." 

COME,  COME,  YE  SAINTS 

Come,  come,  ye  saints,  no  toil  nor  labor  fear, 

But  with  joy  wend  your  way; 

Though  hard  to  you  this  journey  may  appear, 

Grace  shall  be  as  your  day. 

'Tis  better  far  for  us  to  strive, 

Our  useless  cares  from  us  to  drive, 

Do  this,  and  joy  your  hearts  will  swell — 

All  is  well !  All  is  well ! 

Why  should  we  mourn,  or  think  our  lot  is  hard? 
'Tis  not  so ;  all  is  right ! 

Why  should  we  think  to  earn  a  great  reward. 

If  we  now  shun  the  fight? 

Gird  up  your  loins,  fresh  courage  take, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


Our  God  will  never  us  forsake; 
And  soon  we'll  have  this  tale  to  tell — 
All  is  well !  All  is  well ! 

We'll  find  the  place  which  God  for  us  prepared, 
Far  away  in  the  West; 

Where  none  shall  come  to  hurt  or  make  afraid ; 

There  the  Saints  will  be  blessed. 

We'll  make  the  air  with  music  ring, 

Shout  praises  to  our  God  and  King ; 

Above  the  rest  these  words  we'll  tell — 

All  is  well !  All  is  well ! 

And  should  we  die  before  our  journey's  through, 

Happy  day !  All  is  well ! 

We  then  are  free  from  toil  and  sorrow  too. 

With  the  just  we  shall  dwell. 

But  if  our  lives  are  spared  again 

To  see  the  Saints  their  rest  obtain, 

O  how  we'll  make  this  chorus  swell — 

All  is  well!  All  is  well! 


I  was  told  by  a  doctor  that  one  of  his  patients  came  to  him  and  sold 
to  him  some  securities  that  he  owned.  Then  he  gave  his  home  to  one  of 
the  members  of  the  family,  he  gave  other  things  to  other  members  of  his 
family,  and  then  he  retired  on  a  pension  for  someone  else  to  support  him. 
The  doctor  said  that  during  the  two  years  that  this  man  has  been  drawing 
a  pension  doing  nothing  he  has  aged  five  or  six  years  at  least,  and  has  had 
to  consult  him,  his  doctor,  time  and  time  again,  more  often  than  he  ever 
did  in  the  same  length  of  time  before.  Work — labor — is  what  gives 
people  strength  and  power,  and  loafing  aids  in  destroying  their  lives. 


SHOULD  YOU  FEEL  INCLINED  TO  CENSURE 

Should  you  feel  inclined  to  censure 
Faults  you  may  in  others  view, 

Ask  your  own  heart  ere  you  venture. 
If  that  has  not  failings  too. 

Let  not  friendly  vows  be  broken; 

Rather  strive  a  friend  to  gain ; 
Many  a  word  in  anger  spoken 

Finds  its  passage  home  again. 

Do  not,  then,  in  idle  pleasure, 

Trifle  with  another's  fame, 
Guard  it  as  a  valued  treasure, 

Sacred  as  your  own  good  name. 

Do  not  form  opinions  blindly ; 

Hastiness  to  trouble  tends. 
Those  of  whom  we  thought  unkindly. 

Oft  become  our  warmest  friends. 


O  MY  FATHER 


O  my  Father,  thou  that  dwellest 
In  the  high  and  glorious  place ! 


When  shall  I  regain  thy  presence, 
And  again  behold  thy  face? 


PRESIDENT  IIEBER  J.  GRANT 


11 


In  thy  holy  habitation, 

Did  my  spirit  once  reside  ; 
In  my  first  primeval  childhood, 

Was  I  nurtured  near  thy  side? 

For  a  wise  and  glorious  purpose 

Thou  hast  placed  me  here  on  earth, 
And  withheld  the  recollection 

Of  my  former  friends  and  birth. 
Yet  ofttimes  a  secret  something 

Whispered,  "You're  a  stranger  here" ; 
And  I  felt  that  I  had  wandered 

From  a  more  exalted  sphere. 

I  had  learned  to  call  thee  Father, 

Through  thy  Spirit  from  on  high ; 
But  until  the  Key  of  Knowledge 

Was  restored,  I  knew  not  why. 
In  the  heavens  are  parents  single? 

No;  the  thought  makes  reason  stare! 
Truth  is  reason,  truth  eternal 

Tells  me  I've  a  mother  there. 

When  I  leave  this  frail  existence, 

When  I  lay  this  mortal  by, 
Father,  Mother,  may  I  meet  you 

In  your  royal  courts  on  high  ? 
Then,  at  length,  when  I've  completed 

All  you  sent  me  forth  to  do, 
With  your  mutual  approbation, 

Let  me  come  and  dwell  with  you. 

— Eliza  R.  Snow. 

I  have  read  only  six  of  the  ten.  I  see  the  time  is  flying,  and  I  have 
perhaps  read  enough.  One  of  the  songs  I  sang  this  morning  was  "The 
Flag  Without  a  Stain,"  and  one  of  them  was  that  lengthy  song  of  seven 
full  verses  which  was  sung  by  John  Taylor  in  Carthage  Jail  at  the  time 
the  Prophet  was  martyred.  One  of  them  was  Brother  Francis  M. 
Lyman's  favorite  hymn,  "School  thy  feelings,  O  my  brother,  train  thy 
warm  impulsive  soul,"  written  by  Brother  Charles  W.  Penrose  after  giv- 
ing ten  years  of  missionary  service  without  purse  or  scrip.  He  was 
accused  of  taking  the  second-hand  furniture  out  of  the  London  confer- 
ence house  and  selling  it  to  help  him  to  emigrate  to  Utah.  He  had  given 
them  the  use  of  this  furniture  for -ten  years,  and  of  course  the  young 
Elders  from  the  "wild  and  woolley  West"  would  not  handle  it  very  gently 
during  that  time.  He  was  broken-hearted,  and  went  home  and  wrote 
that  wonderful  song,  "School  Thy  Feelings,"  for  his  own  consolation. 

(The  other  songs  that  the  President  sang,  but  which  he  did  not 
repeat  in  his  address  are  as  follows:) 

A  POOR  WAYFARING  MAN  OF  GRIEF 

A  poor  wayfaring  man  of  grief 

Hath  often  crossed  me  on  the  way, 
Who  sued  so  humbly  for  relief 

That  I  could  never  answer,  nay. 
I  had  not  power  to  ask  his  name 

Whither  he  went  or  whence  he  came, 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  7  First  Day 

Yet  there  was  something  in  his  eye 

That  won  my  love,  I  knew  not  why. 

Once,  when  my  scanty  meal  was  spread, 

He  entered,  not  a  word  he  spake, 
Just  perishing  for  want  of  bread, 

I  gave  him  all,  he  blessed  it,  brake. 

And  ate,  but  gave  me  part  again; 

Mine  was  the  angel's  portion  then ; 
For  while  I  fed  with  eager  haste, 

The  crust  was  manna  to  my  taste. 

I  spied  him  where  a  fountain  burst 

Clear  from  the  rock;  his  strength  was  gone, 

The  heedless  water  mocked  his  thirst, 
He  heard  it,  saw  it  hurrying  on. 

I  ran  and  raised  the  sufferer  up; 

Thrice  from  the  stream  he  drained  my  cup, 
Dipped  and  returned  it  running  o'er; 

I  drank  and  never  thirsted  more. 

'Twas  night ;  the  floods  were  out ;  it  blew 

A  winter  hurricane  aloof ; 
I  heard  his  voice  abroad  and  flew 

To  bid  him  welcome  to  my  roof. 

I  warmed  and  clothed  and  cheered  my  guest, 

And  laid  him  on  my  couch  to  rest, 
Then  made  the  earth  my  bed  and  seemed 

In  Eden's  garden  while  I  dreamed. 

Stript,  wounded,  beaten  nigh  to  death, 

I  found  him  by  the  highway's  side; 
I  roused  his  pulse,  brought  back  his  breath, 

Revived  his  spirit  and  supplied 

Wine,  oil,  refreshment — He  was  healed ; 

I  had  myself  a  wound  concealed, 
But  from  that  hour  forgot  the  smart, 

And  peace  bound  up  my  broken  heart. 

In  prison  I  saw  him  next  condemned 

To  meet  a  traitor's  doom  at  morn; 
The  tide  of  lying  tongues  I  stemmed,  • 

And  honored  him  'mid  shame  and  scorn. 

My  friendship's  utmost  zeal  to  try, 

He  asked  if  I  for  him  would  die; 
The  flesh  was  weak,  my  blood  ran  chill, 

But  the  free  spirit  cried,  "I  will !" 

Then  in  a  moment  to  my  view, 

The  stranger  started  from  disguise; 
The  tokens  in  his  hands  I  knew, 

The  Savior  stood  before  mine  eyes. 

He  spake,  and  my  poor  name  he  named ; 

"Of  me  thou  hast  not  been  ashamed, 
These  deeds  shall  thy  memorial  be, 

Fear  not,  thou  didst  them  unto  me." 

— Montgomery. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


0  YE  MOUNTAINS  HIGH 

O  ye  mountains  high,  where  the  clear  blue  sky 

Arches  over  the  vales  of  the  free, 
Where  the  pure  breezes  blow  and  the  clear  streamlets  flow 

How  I've  longed  to  thy  bosom  to  flee. 
O  Zion!  dear  Zion!  land  of  the  free, 

Now  my  own  mountain  home,  unto  thee  I  have  come — 
All  my  fond  hopes  are  centered  in  thee. 

Though  the  great  and  the  wise,  all  thy  beauties  despise, 

To  the  humble  and  pure  thou  art  dear ; 
Though  the  haughty  may  smile  and  the  wicked  revile, 

Yet  we  love  thy  glad  tidings  to  hear. 
O  Zion !  dear  Zion !  home  of  the  free, 

Though  thou  wert  forced  to  fly  to  thy  chambers  on  high, 
Yet  we'll  share  joy  and  sorrow  with  thee. 

In  thy  mountain  retreat,  God  will  strengthen  thy  feet ; 

On  the  necks  of  thy  foes  thou  shalt  tread ; 
And  their  silver  and  gold,  as  the  prophets  foretold, 

Shall  be  brought  to  adorn  thy  fair  head. 
O  Zion,  dear  Zion !  home  of  the  free, 

Soon  thy  towers  shall  shine  with  a  splendor  divine 
And  eternal  thy  glory  shall  be. 

Here  our  voices  we'll  raise,  and  we'll  sing  to  thy  praise, 

Sacred  home  of  the  prophets  of  God; 
Thy  deliverance  is  nigh,  thy  oppressors  shall  die, 

And  the  Gentiles  shall  bow  'neath  thy  rod. 
O  Zion !  dear  Zion !  land  of  the  free, 

In  thy  temples  we'll  bend,  all  thy  rights  we'll  defend 
And  our  home  shall  be  ever  with  thee. 

— Charles  W.  Penrose. 


SCHOOL  THY  FEELINGS,  O  MY  BROTHER 

School  thy  feelings,  O  my  brother, 
Train  thy  warm,  impulsive  soul; 

Do  not  its  emotions  smother, 
But  let  wisdom's  voice  control. 

School  thy  feelings,  there  is  power 

In  the  cool,  collected  mind; 
Passion  shatters  reason's  tower, 

Makes  the  clearest  vision  blind. 

School  thy  feelings,  condemnation 

Never  pass  on  friend  or  foe, 
Though  the  tide  of  accusation 

Like  a  flood  of  truth  may  flow. 

Hear  defense  before  deciding, 

And  a  ray  of  light  may  gleam, 
Showing  thee  what  filth  is  hiding 

Underneath  the  shallow  stream. 

Should  affliction's  acrid  vial 

Burst  o'er  thy  unsheltered  head, 

School  thy  feelings  to  the  trial, 
Half  its  bitterness  hath  fled. 


14  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  7  First  Day 

Art  thou  falsely,  basely  slandered? 

Does  the  world  begin  to  frown? 
Gauge  thy  wrath  by  wisdom's  standard. 

Keep  thy  rising  anger  down. 

Rest  thyself  on  this  assurance, 

Time's  a  friend  to  innocence 
And  the  patient,  calm  endurance 

Wins  respect  and  aids  defense. 

Noblest  minds  have  finest  feelings, 
Quivering  strings  a  breath  can  move, 

And  the  Gospel's  sweet  revealings 
Tune  them  with  the  key  of  love. 

Hearts  so  sensitively  moulded 

Strongly  fortified  should  be, 
Trained  to  firmness  and  enfolded 

In  a  calm  tranquility. 

Wound  not  wilfully  another; 

Conquer  haste  with  reason's  might; 
School  thy  feelings,  sister,  brother, 

Train  them  in  the  path  of  right. 

— Charles  W.  Penrose. 


THE  FLAG  WITHOUT  A  STAIN 


For  years  and  years  I've  waved  o'er  my  people, 

O'er  land  and  sea,  o'er  church  tower  and  steeple; 
Foremost  in  battle  proudly  I  reign, 

Triumphant  now  o'er  thee,  without  one  stain. 
O,  how  I  trembled  when  called  alone  to  stand, 

But  brave  hearts  sustained  me  to  wave  o'er  the  land. 
O,  my  America!  O  my  America! 

Proudly  I  wave  o'er  thee,  Sweet  land  of  Liberty. 

No  flag  on  earth  shall  insult  this  nation, 
Justice  and  right  shall  e'er  be  our  relation. 

No  creed  or  sect  shall  here  ever  reign. 
While  floats  the  Stars  and  Stripes,  without  one  stain. 

Stars  that  were  blotted  are  shining  once  again, 
The  Angel  of  Peace  has  wiped  out  the  stain. 

THE  WORD  OF  THE  LORD 

In  addition  to  singing  these  songs  this  morning  I  repeated  from  the 
121st  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  commencing  with  the  words 
"How  long  can  rolling  waters  remain  impure,"  to  the  end  of  the  section: 

33.  How  long  can  rolling  waters  remain  impure?  What  power  shall 
stay  the  heavens?  As  well  might  man  stretch  forth  his  puny  arm  to 
stop  the  Missouri  river  in  its  decreed  course,  or  to  turn  it  up  stream,  as 
to  hinder  the  Almighty  from  pouring  down  knowledge  from  heaven 
upon  the  heads  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

34.  Behold,  there  are  many  called,  but  few  are  chosen.  And  why 
are  they  not  chosen? 

35.  Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  much  upon  the  things  of  this 
world,  and  aspire  to  the  honors  of  men,  that  they  do  not  learn  this  one 
lesson — 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


15 


36.  That  the  rights  of  the  priesthood  are  inseparably  connected  with 
the  powers  of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of  heaven  cannot  be  controlled 
nor  handled  only  upon  the  principles  of  righteousness. 

37.  That  they  may  be  conferred  upon  us,  it  is  true;  but  when  we 
undertake  to  cover  our  sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride,  our  vain  ambition, 
or  to  exercise  control  or  dominion  or  compulsion  upon  the  souls  of  the 
children  of  men,  in  any  degree  of  unrighteousness,  behold,  the  heavens 
withdraw  themselves,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  grieved ;  and  when  it  is 
withdrawn,  Amen  to  the  priesthood  or  the  authority  of  that  man. 

38.  Behold,  ere  he  is  aware,  he  is  left  unto  himself,  to  kick  against 
the  pricks,  to  persecute  the  Saints,  and  to  fight  against  God. 

39.  We  have  learned  by  sad  experience  that  it  is  the  nature  and  dis- 
position of  almost  all  men,  as  soon  as  they  get  a  little  authority,  as  they 
suppose,  they  will  immediately  begin  to  exercise  unrighteous  dominion. 

40.  Hence  many  are  called,  but  few  are  chosen. 

41.  No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of 
the  priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by  long-suffering,  by  gentleness  and 
meekness,  and  by  love  unfeigned ; 

42.  By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge,  which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the 
soul  without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile — 

43.  Reproving  betimes  with  sharpness,  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy 
Ghost;  and  then  showing  forth  afterwards  an  increase  of  love  toward 
him  whom  thou  hast  reproved,  lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be  his  enemy ; 

44.  That  he  may  know  that  thy  faithfulness  is  stronger  than  the 
cords  of  death. 

45.  Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men,  and 
to  the  household  of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly ; 
then  shall  thy  confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God;  and  the 
doctrine  of  the  priesthood  shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews  from 
heaven. 

46.  The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  constant  companion,  and  thy 
scepter  an  unchanging  scepter  of  righteousness  and  truth ;  and  thy  domin- 
ion shall  be  an  everlasting  dominion,  and  without  compulsory  means  it 
shall  flow  unto  thee  forever  and  ever. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  marvelous  revelations  that  God  has  given  to 
man,  and  it  was  given  to  the  Prophet  while  he  was  imprisoned  in  Liberty 
Jail. 

THANKFUL  FOR  KNOWLEDGE 

How  I  do  thank  the  Lord  that  I  have  an  abiding  and  absolute  knowl- 
edge that  He  lives,  that  He  is  my  Father,  that  He  hears  and  answers  my 
prayers !  How  I  do  thank  the  Lord — it  is  beyond  my  ability  to  express 
my  gratitude — for  a  knowledge  that  His  Son  is  my  Redeemer  and  yours ; 
that  God  the  Father  and  His  Son  Jesus  Christ  visited  the  boy  Joseph 
Smith,  and  that  Moroni  delivered  into  his  hands  the  plates  from  which 
the  Book  of  Mormon  was  translated !  I  thank  the  Lord  that  when  I  read 
the  Book  of  Mormon  there  came  into  my  soul  a  testimony  that  it  is 
exactly  what  it  purports  to  be.  I  fell  in  love  with  Nephi,  and  more  than 
any  other  character,  except  my  Redeemer,  in  the  Bible  or  the  Book  of 
Mormon  he  has  been  my  guiding  star. 

IDLENESS  CONDEMNED 

We  should  have  an  ambition,  we  should  have  a  desire  to  work  to  the 
full  extent  of  our  ability.  Work  is  pleasing  to  the  Lord.  "The  idler  shall 


16  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  7  First  Day 

be  had  in  remembrance  before  the  Lord."  I  reached  my  office  this 
morning  at  8 :30  o'clock,  and  generally  get  there  at  8  o'clock.  As  a  rule 
I  do  not  leave  the  office  before  5  :30  or  6 :00,  and  at  noon  I  go  next  door 
to  the  Lion  House  Cafeteria,  where  I  get  a  quick  lunch.  Once  in  a  great 
while,  when  I  have  not  been  able  to  sleep  as  well  as  usual,  I  have  brought 
to  my  office  as  many  as  eight  cylinders  of  letters.  Working  eight  or  nine 
hours  a  day  has  never  injured  me,  and  I  do  not  believe  it  has  ever  injured 
anyone  else.  The  Lord  says :  "Men  should  be  anxiously  engaged  in  a 
good  cause,  and  do  many  things  of  their  own  free  will,  and  bring  to  pass 
much  righteousness." 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  in  this  conference.  I  leave  with  you  my 
abiding  testimony  that  I  know  as  I  know  that  I  live  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living  God,  the  instrument  in  the  hands 
of  God  of  establishing  again  upon  the  earth  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation 
— the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

May  God  help  you,  my  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  every  one  of  you 
who  has  the  same  knowledge  which  I  have,  to  live  the  Gospel,  to  do  that 
which  is  right,  and  then  we  are  sure  of  the  reward  of  life  eternal  in  His 
presence.  This  is  my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  our 
Redeemer  and  Savior.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Presented  for  the  vote  of  the  Conference,  the  General  Authorities 
and  General  Officers  of  the  Church,  also  the  General  Auxiliary  Officers, 
and  they  were  unanimously  sustained,  as  follows : 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer,  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Reed  Smoot  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

George  Albert  Smith  John  A.  Widtsoe 

George  F.  Richards  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Charles  A.  Callis 

Stephen  L.  Richards  Albert  E.  Bowen 
Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  associate  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


17 


ACTING  PATRIARCH  TO  CHURCH 

George  F.  Richards 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and 
the  acting  Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 


TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Rulon  S.  Wells  John  H.  Taylor 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Rufus  K.  Hardy 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Richard  L.  Evans 
Samuel  O.  Bennion 


PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

LeGrand  Richards,  Presiding  Bishop 
Marvin  O.  Ashton,  First  Counselor 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Second  Counselor 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants :  Andrew  Jen- 
son  and  A.  William  Lund. 

CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  John  A.  Widtsoe 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Adam  S.  Bennion 

David  O.  McKay  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Rudger  Clawson  Franklin  S.  Harris 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Charles  A.  Callis 

Stephen  L.  Richards  Franklin  L.  West 
Richard  R.  Lyman 

Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  &  Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER  OF  EDUCATION 

Franklin  L.  West 


SEMINARY  SUPERVISOR 


M.  Lynn  Bennion 


18 

Friday,  October  7 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 


First  Day 


Orval  W.  Adams  George  S.  Spencer 

Albert  E.  Boweri  Harold  H.  Bennett 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President;  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor; 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor. 


ORGANISTS 


Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Wade  N.  Stephens,  Assistant 


CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 


ADVISERS 

Melvin  J.  Ballard  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

John  A.  Widtsoe  John  H.  Taylor 

A.  E.  Bowen  The  Presiding  Bishopric 

General  Presidency  of  the  Relief  Society 

GENERAL  COMMITTEE 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 
Robert  L.  Judd,  Vice-Chairman 
Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 
Marvin  O.  Ashton  Sterling  H.  Nelson 

Mark  Austin  Wm.  E.  Ryberg 

Campbell  M.  Brown  Stringham  A.  Stevens 

Clyde  C.  Edmunds  J.  Frank  Ward 


GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMEN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Louise  Y.  Robison,  President 
Amy  Brown  Lyman,  First  Counselor 
Kate  M.  Barker,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

George  D.  Pyper,  General  Superintendent 
Milton  Bennion,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
George  R.  Hill,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


19 


YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Q.  Morris,  General  Superintendent 
Joseph  J.  Cannon,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Burton  K.  Farnsworth,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 

YOUNG  WOMEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  President 
Helen  Spencer  Williams,  First  Counselor 
Verna  W.  Goddard,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  Superintendent 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Edith  Hunter  Lambert,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

REPORT  OF  CHANGES  DURING  PAST  SIX  MONTHS 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  read  the  following 
report  of  Changes  in  Church  Officers,  Stake,  Ward  and  Branch  Organi- 
zations since  last  April  Conference : 

New  Mission  Presidents : 

Joseph  E.  Evans  appointed  to  preside  over  the  French  Mission  to 
succeed  President  Octave  F.  Ursenbach. 

David  A.  Smith  appointed  to  preside  over  the  Canadian  Mission  to 
succeed  President  Abel  S.  Rich. 

John  Alden  Bowers  appointed  to  preside  over  the  Brazilian  Mission 
to  succeed  President  Rulon  S.  Howells. 

Frederick  S.  Williams  appointed  to  preside  over  the  Argentine 
Mission  to  succeed  President  W.  Ernest  Young. 

A.  Lorenzo  Anderson  appointed  to  preside  over  the  Mexican  Mis- 
sion to  succeed  President  Harold  W.  Pratt. 

Apostle  Richard  R.  Lyman  released  as  president  of  the  European 
Mission. 

Missionary  Home  Director  Changed : 

J.  Wyley  Sessions  released  and  Don  B.  Colton  appointed. 

Members  Appointed  to  General  Committee — Church  Welfare  Plan : 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  and  John  H.  Taylor  appointed  advisers  repre- 
senting the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy. 

Louise  Y.  Robison,  appointed  adviser  representing  the  Relief  Society 
General  Board. 

Sterling  H.  Nelson. 

Clyde  C.  Edmonds. 


20  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  7  First  Day 

New  Stakes  Organised : 

Moon  Lake  Stake  was  created  by  a  division  of  Duchesne  Stake  on 
April  24th.  The  new  stake  consists  of  Altonah,  Bluebell,  Boneta,  Mt. 
Emmons,  Mt.  Home,  Talmage  and  Upalco  wards.  Arcadia,  Bridgeland, 
Duchesne,  Redcliff,  Strawberry,  Tabiona  wards  and  Utahn  branch  re- 
tained in  Duchesne  Stake. 

Portland  Stake  was  organized  on  June  26th  from  branches  in  the 
Northwestern  States  Mission.  The  new  stake  consists  of  Colonial 
Heights,  Eugene,  Irvington,  Moreland,  Mount  Tabor  and  Salem 
Wards  and  Hood  River,  Kelso  and  St.  Helens  Independent  Branches. 

Seattle  Stake  was  organized  on  July  31st  from  branches  in  the 
Northwestern  States  Mission.  The  new  stake  consists  of  Bellingham, 
Bremerton,  Lincoln,  Queen  Anne,  Tacoma  Central,  University,  Van- 
couver, and  West  Seattle  Wards  and  Chehalis,  Everett,  Grays  Harbor, 
Olympia,  Raymond  and  Renton  independent  branches. 

New  Stake  Presidents  Appointed : 

Heber  Moon  appointed  president  of  the  Duchesne  Stake  to  succeed 
Owen  Bennion. 

Edwin  L.  Murphy  appointed  president  of  the  newly  organized 
Moon  Lake  Stake. 

Marion  G.  Romney  appointed  president  of  the  Bonneville  Stake  to 
succeed  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin. 

H.  Roland  Tietjen  appointed  president  of  the  South  Sevier  Stake 
to  succeed  James  R.  Ware. 

Monte  Lafayette  Bean  appointed  president  of  the  newly  organized 
Portland  Stake. 

Alexander  Brown  appointed  president  of  the  newly  organized 
Seattle  Stake. 

Arthur  C.  Brown  appointed  president  of  the  Millard  Stake  to  suc- 
ceed T.  Clark  Callister. 

New  Wards  Organized : 

Price  Second  Ward,  Carbon  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  Price 
Ward,  making  it  Price  First  Ward. 

Bryan  Ward,  Highland  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  Emerson 
and  Sugarhouse  Wards. 

Colonial  Heights  Ward,  Eugene  Ward,  Irvington  Ward,  Moreland 
Ward,  Mount  Tabor  Ward,  and  Salem  Ward,  Portland  Stake,  created 
from  branches  in  the  Northwestern  States  Mission. 

Twelfth  Ward,  Ensign  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  the  former  12- 
13th  Ward  and  part  of  the  11th  Ward. 

Thirteenth  Ward,  Ensign  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  the  former 
12-13th  Ward. 

Bellingham  Ward,  Bremerton  Ward,  Lincoln  Ward,  Queen  Anne 
Ward,  Tacoma  Central  Ward,  University  Ward,  Vancouver  Ward,  and 


REPORT  OF  CHANGES 


21 


West  Seattle  Ward,  Seattle  Stake,  created  from  branches  in  the  North- 
western States  Mission. 

Claremont  Ward,  Oakland  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  the  Berke- 
ley and  Oakland  Wards  of  that  stake. 

New  Independent  Branches  Organized : 

Hood  River  Branch,  Kelso  Branch,  and  St.  Helens  Branch,  Port- 
land Stake,  were  formerly  branches  in  the  Northwestern  States  Mission. 

Edmonton  Branch,  Lethbridge  Stake,  formerly  dependent  on  Cal- 
gary Ward. 

Spanish-American  Branch,  Maricopa  Stake,  formerly  Mesa  Branch 
of  Spanish-American  Mission. 

Modesto  Branch,  Sacramento  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in  the  Cali- 
fornia Mission. 

Chehalis  Branch,  Everett  Branch,  Gray's  Harbor  Branch,  Olympia 
Branch,  Raymond  Branch,  and  Renton  Branch,  Seattle  Stake,  created 
from  branches  in  the  Northwestern  States  Mission. 

Pioneer  Branch,  Pioneer  Stake,  created  from  a  division  of  Granger 
Ward,  Oquirrh  Stake  and  Cannon  Ward,  Pioneer  Stake. 

Pendleton  Branch  and  Walla  Walla  Branch,  Union  Stake,  were 
formerly  branches  in  the  Northwestern  States  Mission. 

Branch  Name  Changed: 

Kilgore  Branch,  Yellowstone  Stake,  was  formerly  known  as  the 
Idmon  Branch. 

Wards  Disorganized : 

San  Fernando  Ward,  Pasadena  Stake,  disorganized  and  annexed  to 
Burbank  and  North  Hollywood  Wards  of  that  stake. 

Branch  Disorganized : 

Gordon  Creek  Branch,  Carbon  Stake,  discontinued,  members  moved 
to  other  wards  of  church. 

Those  Who  Have  Passed  Away : 

Jonathan  Golden  Kimball,  Senior  President  of  the  First  Council 
of  the  Seventy. 

Harrison  R.  Merrill,  member  of  the  general  board  of  the  Young 
Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association,  member  of  board  of  directors 
of  The  Deseret  News,  Professor  at  the  Brigham  Young  University  and 
former  managing  editor  of  the  Improvement  Era. 

M.  Charles  Wood,  former  president  of  the  New  Zealand  Mission. 

Isaac  Dana,  bishop  of  Mesa  First  Ward,  Maricopa  Stake. 


An  anthem,  'Who  Shall  Feed  His  Flock"  (Handel)  was  rendered 
by  the  Singing  Mothers,  Bessie  Morley  and  Margaret  Stewart  Hewlett 
soloists. 


22  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  7  First  Day 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Behind  the  powerful  and  faith-promoting  testimony  of  our  beloved 
President,  Heber  J.  Grant,  is  a  power  more  than  man's. 

PEACE  A  BLESSING 

Blessed  are  the  peacemakers :  for  they  shall  be  called  the  children  of 
God. 

When  the  Son  of  Man  was  betrayed,  Peter  drew  his  sword  and 
struck  the  servant  of  the  High  Priest.  But  Jesus  said:  "Put  up  again 
thy  sword  into  his  place :  for  all  they  that  take  the  sword  shall  perish  with 
the  sword." 

This  was  an  ominous  and  prophetic  declaration  concerning  the 
Jewish  and  the  Roman  states.  These  nations  lifted  up  their  swords 
against  Jesus  Christ  and  both  nations  perished  by  the  sword.  The  man 
who  takes  the  sword  of  animosity  and  hate  with  evil  intent  to  injure  his 
neighbor  and  besmirch  his  character  shall  himself  fall  a  sacrifice  to  the 
weapons  he  has  used.  For  they  who  sow  the  wind  shall  reap  the  whirl- 
wind. 

THE  STORY  OF  NINEVEH'S  REPENTANCE 

By  command  of  the  Lord,  Jonah  went  to  the  great  city  of  Nineveh. 
He  walked  up  and  down  a  whole  day,  crying  out,  "In  forty  days  Nineveh 
shall  be  destroyed."  Humbled  by  God's  awful  message  the  Ninevites 
appointed  a  public  fast..  They  were  on  the  verge  of  destruction.  They 
had  almost  filled  up  the  measure  of  their  guilt,  and  they  were  ripe  for 
judgment.  The  people  from  the  meanest  to  the  greatest  followed  the 
example  of  their  king  and  covered  themselves  with  sackcloth. 

God  was  moved  with  compassion  by  the  depth  and  sincerity  of  their 
repentance;  therefore  he  did  not  execute  the  sentence  he  had  pronounced 
upon  them.  I  think  it  was  Victor  Hugo  who,  speaking  of  the  Deity, 
said :  "Of  all  thy  names,  Compassion  is  the  most  beautiful." 

God  spared  that  city  of  one  hundred  and  twenty  thousand  inhabi- 
tants. But  this  displeased  Jonah  exceedingly  and  he  was  very  angry. 
He  was  vexed  that  his  prediction  was  not  going  to  be  fulfilled.  He  ap- 
peared to  care  little  whether  innocent  children  and  defenseless  women 
would  fall  victims  in  that  great  judgment.  But  the  Lord  stayed  the  exe- 
cution of  that  sentence.   He  said  to  Jonah : 

And  should  I  not  spare  Nineveh,  that  great  city,  wherein  are  more  than 
six  score  thousand  persons  that  cannot  discern  between  their  right  hand 
and  their  left  hand;  and  also  much  cattle?" 

Even  the  dumb  beasts  are  objects  of  his  compassion. 

There  was  a  reason  in  this  stay  of  execution — if  I  may  be  permitted 
to  use  that  phrase. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


23 


To  men  and  likewise  to  nations  the  promises  and  threatenings  of 
God  are  always  conditional.  In  the  wisdom  and  goodness  of  God  good 
behavior,  sorrowful  repentance  and  conversion  can  stay  the  approach  of 
judgment,  or  at  least  secure  a  respite.  People  are  given  time  by  the 
Almighty  to  return  to  him  through  repentance.  There  is  forgiveness 
with  Him.  Thus  the  Lord  turns  aside  his  judgments  for  a  while  at 
least.  Nineveh's  people  were  rescued.  They  were  granted  an  extension 
of  time.  Judgments  are  conditional.  The  people  themselves  are  re- 
sponsible for  the  calamities  that  befall  them,  but  when  they  repent  and 
turn  unto  the  Lord,  he  hears  their  prayers. 

RESPITE  THROUGH  PRAYER 

A  few  days  ago  the  world  beheld  a  majestic  spectacle.  Millions  of 
people  entreated  the  Lord  in  humble  prayer ;  they  knelt  in  cottages  and 
palaces,  in  mines  and  on  farms,  in  workshops  and  in  churches  and  pleaded 
with  the  Almighty  to  avert  what  seemed  to  be  a  certain  terrible  war.  The 
people  appealed  from  earthly  rulers  to  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  their 
appeal  was  heard  and  granted.  A  putting  off  was  secured.  God 
grant  that  the  nations  may  lengthen  out  by  righteousness  that  respite 
unto  an  endless  state  and  come  unto  Him,  the  Prince  of  Peace. 

PROPHETIC  WORDS 

In  that  historic  dream,  the  dream  of  the  ages,  which  God  gave  to 
Nebuchadnezzar,  a  dream  divinely  given  and  divinely  interpreted,  the 
Lord  showed  unto  that  great  statesman,  that  mighty  king,  "what  shall 
be  in  the  latter  days."  He  revealed  unto  him  the  kingdoms  that  would 
exist  in  our  day.  There  were  a  few  words  spoken  by  Daniel  when  he 
interpreted  that  dream  which  makes  it  clear  that  kings  and  rulers  should 
rise,  but  no  king  or  ruler  should  ever  establish  a  universal  empire  in 
Europe.  These  are  the  words — referring  to  the  nations — "They  shall' 
not  cleave  one  to  another,  even  as  iron  is  not  mixed  with  clay."  They  are 
the  words  of  God. 

Hosea  said:  "And  by  a  prophet  the  Lord  brought  Israel  out  of 
Egypt,  and  by  a  prophet  was  he  preserved." 

JOSEPH  smith's  statesmanlike  word 

It  is  part  of  a  prophet's  work  not  only  to  foretell  and  warn  of 
impending  conflicts  and  calamities,  but  also  to  show  the  means  of  escape. 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet-statesman.  He  predicted  the  war  which 
would  terminate  in  the  death  and  the  misery  of  many  souls;  but  this 
great  prophet  had  a  peace  offering  to  give  to  the  people.  He  told  them 
of  ways  and  means  to  avoid  war.  Unlike  Jonah,  he  had  rather  have 
his  prediction,  mighty  and  certain  as  it  was,  lie  dormant  if  the  people 
would  turn  unto  God. 

In  1844  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  gave  the  following  counsel  with 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  7  First  Day 

respect  to  a  coming  event  which  was  soon  to  cast  its  black  shadow  over  the 
land,  and  which  was  of  great  and  general  concern.  "Pray  Congress  to 
pay  every  man  a  reasonable  price  for  his  slaves  out  of  the  surplus  rev- 
enue arising  from  the  sale  of  public  lands,  and  from  deduction  of  pay 
from  the  members  of  Congress,  break  off  the  shackles  from  the  poor 
black  man,  and  hire  him  to  labor  like  other  human  beings,  for  an  hour 
of  virtuous  liberty  on  earth  is  worth  a  whole  eternity  of  bondage."  The 
Prophet  continued,  "The  southern  people  are  hospitable  and  noble.  They 
will  help  to  rid  so  free  a  country  of  every  vestige  of  slavery  whenever 
they  are  assured  of  an  equivalent  for  their  property."  And,  by  the  way, 
in  the  same  declaration  the  Prophet  Joseph  makes  the  recommendation, 
which  is  applicable  to  nations  and  states  today,  that  more  economy  be 
practiced  in  the  national  and  state  governments. 

The  scholarly  Josiah  Quincy  writing  about  the  message  Joseph  Smith 
delivered  to  the  nation,  says  : 

It  may  be  worthwhile  to  remark  that  Smith's  plan  was  publicly  ad- 
vocated eleven  years  later,  by  one  who  has  mixed  so  much  practical  shrewd- 
ness with  his  lofty  philosophy.  In  1885,  when  men's  minds  had  been  moved 
to  their  depths  on  the  question  of  slavery,  Mr.  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  de- 
clared that  it  should  be  met  in  accordance  with  the  interest  of  the  South  and 
with  the  settled  conscience  of  the  North.  It  is  not  really  a  great  task,  a  great 
fight  for  this  country  to  accomplish,  to  buy  that  property  of  the  planter,  as 
the  British  Nation  bought  the  West  Indian  slaves.  .  .  .  We,  who  can  look 
back  upon  the  terrible  cost  of  the  fratricidal  war  which  put  an  end  to  slav- 
ery, now  say  that  such  a  solution  of  the  difficulty  would  have  been  worthy 
a  Christian  statesman.  But  if  the  retired  scholar  was  in  advance  of  his  time 
when  he  advocated  this  disposition  of  the  public  property  in  1855,  what 
shall  I  say  of  the  political  and  religious  leader  who  had  committed  himself, 
in  print,  as  well  as  in  conversation,  to  the  same  course  in  1844?  If  the 
atmosphere  of  men's  opinions  was  stirred  by  such  a  proposition  when  war 
clouds  were  discernible  in  the  sky,  was  it  not  a  statesmanlike  word  eleven 
years  earlier,  when  the  heavens  looked  tranquil  and  beneficent?  (Figures 
of  the  Past,  by  Josiah  Quincy,  p.  335.) 

Lincoln's  plan  to  end  war 

Abraham  Lincoln,  the  Great  Emancipator,  probably  knew  Joseph 
Smith  very  well.  During  a  political  campaign  he  wrote  a  letter  in  which 
"he  gives  a  long  list  of  names  to  which  he  wants  documents  to  be  sent," 
and  in  the  same  letter  he  tells  a  candidate  "that  Joseph  Smith  is  an  ad- 
mirer of  his,  and  that  a  few  documents  had  better  be  mailed  to  the  Mor- 
mon people."  Abraham  Lincoln  was  familiar  with  the  prophetic  mes- 
sage that  Joseph  Smith  delivered  and  the  means  of  escape  that  the 
Prophet  opened  up  to  the  nation  to  save  the  people  from  the  dreadful 
calamity  which  bathed  the  land  in  the  blood  of  human  beings. 

Just  two  months  before  the  war  closed  the  famous  Hampton  Roads 
Conference  was  held.  Lincoln  appealed  to  Alexander  Stephens,  Vice 
President  of  the  Southern  Confederacy.  "Stephens,"  said  he,  "Let  me 
write  the  word  'Union'  at  the  top  of  this  page,  and  you  may  put  under 
it  what  you  please,  for,"  continued  President  Lincoln,  "there  are  men 
in  the  North,  the  mention  of  whose  names  would  surprise  you,  who  are 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  25 


in  favor  of  paying  for  the  slaves.  I,  too,"  he  said,  "am  in  favor  of  giv- 
ing the  southerners  a  fair  equivalent  for  the  loss  of  their  property." 

When  he  returned  to  Washington,  Lincoln  wrote,  in  his  own  hand, 
the  joint  resolution  to  be  presented  to  Congress,  providing  an  appropria- 
tion of  $400,000,000  to  be  paid  to  the  owners  of  the  slaves  if  war  should 
cease  immediately.  He  laid  this  proposition  before  his  cabinet,  but  it 
was  unanimously  disapproved.  The  great  and  lonely  Lincoln,  the  best 
friend  the  South  had,  turned  away  sadly.  "I  see,"  he  said,  "you  are  all 
against  me.  The  war  is  costing  us  $3,000,000  a  day,  and  think  of  the 
lives  being  lost."  (Abraham  Lincoln,  a  History,  by  John  G.  Nicolay  and 
John  Hay,  Volume  10,  Chapter  7,  pages  132-139.) 

Oh,  if  the  words  of  Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet-statesman,  had  been 
heeded,  what  an  effusion  of  blood  would  have  been  prevented !  Those 
young  men  buried  in  soldiers'  graves  would  have  walked  the  earth  in  the 
full  vigor  of  youth  and  splendid  manhood  if  the  nation  had  accepted 
the  means  of  escape  which  Joseph  Smith  pointed  out  to  them.  Among 
the  noblest  words  that  General  Grant  ever  uttered  were  these:  "Let  us 
have  peace." 

In  faith  we'll  rely  on  the  arm  of  Jehovah 

To  guide  through  these  last  days  of  trouble  and  gloom, 

And  after  the  scourges  and  harvest  are  over, 

We'll  rise  with  the  just  when  the  Savior  doth  come. 

Then  all  that  was  promised  the  Saints  will  be  given, 

And  they  will  be  crowned  as  the  angels  of  heaven, 

And  earth  will  appear  as  the  garden  of  Eden, 
And  Jesus  will  say  to  all  Israel,  Come  home. 

May  Christ  come  quickly.  In  the  words  of  John  the  Revelator, 
"Even  so,  blessed  Lord  Jesus,  come  quickly."  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Six  months  ago  I  was  deprived  of  the  opportunity  of  being  here 
with  you.  I  had  been  called,  with  President  Rufus  K.  Hardy  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy,  to  visit  the  missions  in  the  South  Seas  and  to 
divide  with  our  brothers  and  sisters  down  there,  and  with  those  who  are 
not  members  of  the  Church,  some  of  the  glorious  truths  that  our  Heavenly 
Father  has  given  to  us. 

OUR  EARLY  HYMN  BOOKS 

This  morning  when  we  were  singing  the  hymn  "High  On  the 
Mountain  Top"  I  turned  to  the  flyleaf  of  the  hymn  book  as  it  was  first 
published  and  found  this  introduction : 

The  saints  in  this  country  have  been  very  desirous  for  a  hymn  book 
adapted  to  their  faith  and  worship,  that  they  might  sing  the  truth  with 


26  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  7  Pirst  Day 

an  understanding  heart,  and  express  their  praise,  joy  and  gratitude  in 
songs  adapted  to  the  New  and  Everlasting  Covenant. 

In  accordance  with  their  wishes,  we  have  selected  the  following 
volume,  which  we  hope  will  prove  acceptable  until  a  greater  variety  can 
be  added. 

With  sentiments  of  high  consideration  and  esteem,  we  subscribe  our- 
selves your  brethren  in  the  New  and  Everlasting  Covenant. 

Manchester,  England.  1840.  Brigham  Young, 

Parley  P.  Pratt, 
John  Taylor. 

This  was  in  the  first  edition  of  the  hymn  book.  The  next'page  con- 
tains the  following : 

PREFACE  TO  THE  FOURTEENTH  EDITION. 

The  demand  for  the  hymn  book  has  been  so  general  that  it  has  been 
concluded  to  issue  another  edition,  making  the  fourteenth  which  has  been 
published. 

This  edition  is  the  first  published  in  Utah  Territory,  and  possesses 
one  distinctive  peculiarity — it  is  not  only  printed  and  bound  at  the  Church 
Printing  Office,  but  the  type  in  which  it  appears  has  been  manufactured 
here.  This  issue  differs  from  the  two  which  precede  it  in  one  respect  only, 
there  have  been  fourteen  hymns  added  to  the  collection;  they,  however, 
are  placed  in  the  last  part  of  the  book,  so  as  not  to  interfere  with  the  use 
of  the  other  editions  in  common  with  this. 

That  this  little  work  may  accomplish  the  object  for  which  it  is 
designed,  and  prove  a  source  of  joy  and  consolation  to  the  saints,  is  the 
earnest  prayer  of 

Your  brother, 

Salt  Lake  City.  George  Q.  Cannon. 

Utah  Territory,  March  21,  1871. 

A  PROPHETIC  HYMN 

I  now  call  your  attention  to  the  prophetic  statement  contained  in 
this  hymn : 

High  on  the  mountain  top 

A  banner  is  unfurled, 
Ye  nations  now  look  up, 

It  waves  to  all  the  world 
In  Deseret's  sweet,  peaceful  land — 
On  Zion's  mount  behold  it  stand! 

For  God  remembers  still 

His  promise  made  of  old, 
That  he  on  Zion's  hill 

Truth's  standard  would  unfold ; 
Her  light  should  there  attract  the  gaze 
Of  all  the  world  in  latter  days. 

His  house  shall  there  be  reared, 

His  glory  to  display; 
And  people  shall  be  heard 

In  distant  lands  to  say, 
We'll  now  go  up  and  serve  the  Lord, 
Obey  his  truth,  and  learn  his  word; 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


27 


For  there  we  shall  be  taught 

The  law  that  will  go  forth, 
With  truth  and  wisdom  fraught, 

To  govern  all  the  earth ; 
Forever  there  his  ways  we'll  tread, 
And  save  ourselves  with  all  our  dead. 

Then  hail  to  Deseret, 

A  refuge  for  the  good, 
And  safety  for  the  great 

If  they  but  understood 
That  God  with  plagues  will  shake  the  world 
'Till  all  its  thrones  shall  down  be  hurled. 

In  Deseret  doth  truth 

Rear  up  its  royal  head; 
Though  nations  may  oppose, 

Still  wider  it  shall  spread ; 
Yes,  truth  and  justice,  love  and  grace, 
In  Deseret  find  ample  place. 

How  interesting  that  a  hymn  published  in  so  early  a  day  should  be 
sung  by  us  today  with  a  realization  of  the  fulfilment  of  the  promises  con- 
tained therein! 

MISSIONARY  WORK  IN  THE  SOUTH  SEA  ISLANDS 

In  the  South  Seas  we  have  had  missionaries  of  this  Church  for 
many  years.  The  first  were  sent  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Elders 
Noah  Rogers  and  Benjamin  Grouard  went  to  the  Tahitian  Islands.  Hun- 
dreds of  missionaries  have  followed  and  preached  in  the  other  South  Pa- 
cific Island  groups  since  that  time.  They  have  continued  to  proclaim  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  until  today  more  than  thirty  thousand  members 
of  the  Church  are  found  among  the  natives  of  the  South  Seas,  in  ad- 
dition to  those  who  are  of  European  extraction. 

The  Gospel  has  been  taught  to  those  people  down  there  and  the  Book 
of  Mormon  has  been  published  in  most  of  the  languages  of  the  Polynesian 
race.  It  has  not  yet  been  translated  into  Tongan,  yet  in  Tonga  there  are 
approximately  thirty  thousand  of  the  finest  people  to  be  found  in  the 
world,  members  of  the  Polynesian  race. 

I  have  heard  the  hymns  of  Zion  sung  in  Hawaii,  in  Tonga,  in  New 
Zealand,  in  Australia,  in  Tasmania,  and  in  both  British  and  American 
Samoa.  They  were  sung  with  the  same  spirit  that  they  have  been  sung 
here,  and  it  was  most  satisfying  to  know  that  this  wonderful  Tabernacle 
Choir  -and  the  great  organ,  by  means  of  radio,  contribute  to  the  joy  of 
worship  down  there.  Thousands  of  people  living  south  of  the  equator 
who  do  not  belong  to  the  Church  listen  in  and  enjoy  the  programs  that 
go  out  from  this  tabernacle.  The  first  choir  of  Singing  Mothers  that 
sang  here  was  heard  over  the  radio  down  there.  The  idea  was  adopted 
and  we  now  have  choirs  of  Singing  Mothers  among  the  natives  of  the 
South  Seas. 

Not  only  does  the  spoken  word  touch  the  hearts  of  the  children  of 
men,  but  our  Heavenly  Father,  knowing  the  importance  of  appropriate 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  7  First  Day 

singing  in  worship,  called  Emma  Smith  and  appointed  her  to  select  the 
hymns  that  were  published  in  the  first  hymn  book  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  They  have  been  added  to  from  time  to  time, 
until  today  the  songs  of  Zion  are  sung  in  many  lands,  and  the  words  of 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  have  been  interpreted  in  many  lands,  not  only 
by  the  spoken  word,  but  by  the  hymns  that  are  sung  from  the  hearts  of 
those  who  accept  the  Gospel  of  our  Lord. 

We  do  not  amount  to  very  much  in  point  of  numbers  when  compared 
with  the  multitude  of  our  Father's  children  but  we  are  intended  to  be  the 
leaven  in  the  religious  world.  As  I  looked  into  the  faces  of  those  good 
people  in  the  South  Seas  I  was  moved  in  my  soul  to  thank  the  Lord  that 
his  servants  were  sent  down  there,  not  only  to  teach  them  the  Gospel  by 
preaching  it,  but  that  this  Church  was  wise  enough  to  establish  schools 
to  train  its  youth,  for  out  of  those  schools  have  come  some  of  the  best 
trained  and  most  efficient  men  and  women  that  are  to  be  found  in  the 
islands  where  the  Polynesian  people  live. 

AMONG  THE  MAORIS 

I  wish  I  could  satisfactorily  describe  some  of  the  fine  groups  that 
we  met  down  there.  One  was  the  Maori  race.  Brother  Hardy  went  for 
the  fourth  time  to  visit  them  but  they  were  deprived  of  a  part  of  the  joy 
that  they  had  anticipated  because  he  became  ill  just  prior  to  the  great 
Hui  Tau,  where  more  than  three  thousand  members  of  the  Church  assem- 
bled at  the  lovely  Pa  of  the  Princess  Te  Puea  Herangi,  situated  on  the 
shore  of  the  beautiful  Waikato  river,  that  flows  through  her  property. 
We  held  a  conference  lasting  three  days  there  and  everybody  had  a  de- 
lightful experience  and  a  real  uplift. 

Brother  Hardy  was  only  able  to  attend  part  of  the  last  meeting  of 
that  great  celebration.  If  you  could  have  seen  the  people  weeping  when 
he  came  into  the  meeting  and  when  he  talked  to  them  and  bore  his  testi- 
mony, you  would  have  realized  how  fortunate  one  is  who  goes  from  this 
part  of  the  world  to  minister  among  that  humble  happy  people  who  have 
in  their  veins  the  blood  of  Israel,  and  you  would  better  appreciate  how 
their  hearts  are  moved  with  affection  for  those  who  have  served  them 
as  Brother  Hardy  and  many  of  our  brothers  and  sisters  have.  They 
are  delighted  to  have  Matthew  Cowley  back  again  after  seventeen  years. 

PREACHING  THE  GOSPEL  IN  AUSTRALIA 

Australia  was  tremendously  large  and  interesting.  It  is  a  great  field 
for  missionary  activity  and  we  could  use  every  Elder  that  we  have  in  all 
the  mission  fields  on  the  earth  in  that  island  continent.  A  wonderful 
race  of  Anglo-Saxon  people  dwells  there.  Ninety-two  per  cent  of  all 
the  people  are  of  British  extraction,  the  race  that  has  sent  to  us  not  only 
from  England,  Ireland,  Scotland  and  Wales  some  of  the  most  capable 
men  and  women  that  the  Church  has  enlisted  in  its  ranks,  but  from 
Australia  have  come  to  us  those  who  have  performed  splendid  service 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


29 


for  mankind.  The  man  who  created  this  wonderful  tabernacle  organ 
came  from  Australia.  He  was  an  organ  builder  and  knew  the  inspira- 
tional value  of  organ  music.  In  the  city  of  Sydney,  Australia,  there 
still  stands  the  old  organ  after  which  I  think  this  organ  here  may  have 
been  patterned. 

We  received  a  warm  welcome  from  the  Lord  Mayor,  recently 
elected,  when  we  visited  the  town  hall  in  Sydney.  He  knew  about  our 
organ  and  choir.  They  listen  in  when  there  is  a  great  broadcast.  Not 
all  the  broadcasts  reach  them,  I  am  sorry  to  say.  There  are  seasons 
of  the  year  when  they  cannot  hear,  but  at  other  times  they  enjoy  listening 
to  the  great  choir  and  organ  and  the  announcements  that  are  made  by 
Brother  Richard  L.  Evans  and  others.  Those  people  are  becoming 
friendly  to  the  membership  of  this  Church  because  of  the  singing  of  our 
brothers  and  sisters  and  the  glorious  sacred  music  that  goes  out  from  here. 

The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  not  only  taught  by  the  written  word 
and  by  the  spoken  word,  but  I  say  to  you  and  I  say  to  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  that  we  all  so  much  admire,  that  their  part  is  one  of  the  most  im- 
portant in  allaying  prejudice  and  disseminating  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  giving  people  a  desire  to  hear  what  a  church  has  to  say  that 
sings  as  these  our  brethren  and  sisters  sing. 

ILLNESS  OF  BROTHER  HARDY 

Our  missionary  work  is  wonderful.  We  found  your  sons  and  your 
daughters  in  the  various  islands  of  the  South  Seas  and  we  are  proud  of 
them,  as  you  must  be.  Brother  Hardy  was  unable  to  go  to  Tonga  to  do 
any  missionary  work.  He  was  seriously  ill.  He  held  on  just  as  long 
as  he  could  in  New  Zealand  but  finally  had  to  go  to  the  hospital.  The 
Lord  was  good  to  him  and  he  gained  sufficient .  strength  to  continue 
working  and  return  home.  After  we  had  visited  Australia,  Tasmania 
and  New  Zealand,  spending  two  months  there,  I  went  to  Tonga  for  a 
month  accompanied  by  a  native — Elder  Alex  Wishart.  Brother  Hardy 
later  joined  us  at  Nukualofa,  Tonga,  and  we  together  spent  a  month  in 
Samoa. 

I  regret  that  our  beloved  Brother  Hardy  is  not  able  to  be  with  us 
today  due  to  an  illness  that  overtook  him  some  three  weeks  ago,  but  we 
have  promise  that  in  a  few  days  he  will  be  out  again.  I  hope  that  his 
strength  will  be  renewed  unto  him,  because  there  are  thousands  of  people 
in  the  world  who  love  him  and  who  love  his  wife  for  their  devotion  to 
the  Maori  race  and  to  mankind  generally. 

FRIENDLINESS  MANIFESTED  BY  GOVERNMENT  OFFICIALS 

It  may  be  of  interest  for  you  to  know  that  down  in  those  South  Seas 
the  government  officials  in  many  places  speak  of  the  work  of  this  Church 
with  commendation.  In  Australia  complimentary  reference  was  made  to 
our  Church  by  two  men  who  hold  the  positions  of  Lord  Mayors.  They 
were  friendly;  they  had  been  here  in  Salt  Lake  City  and  had  seen  what 
had  been  accomplished. 


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  7  First  Day 

At  Wellington  Brother  Hardy  and  I  went  to  see  the  men  who  have 
charge  of  the  Government  program  for  the  Maori  race  in  New  Zealand. 
The  Judge  and  a  Commissioner  of  the  native  court  told  us  "We  believe 
you  have  accomplished  with  the  Maoris  what  the  other  people  have  not. 
We  want  to  try  out  a  new  program  for  the  betterment  of  the  Maori  race. 
We  would  like  to  cooperate  with  one  of  your  groups  at  Korongata  in 
testing  our  plan.  We  would  rather  experiment  with  them  because  we 
believe  that  they  can  succeed  and  if  we  can  do  it  with  your  people  there, 
then  we  are  willing  to  try  some  of  the  others." 

Korongata — near  Hastings — was  where  our  Agricultural  College 
was  located  that  was  wrecked  by  the  earthquake  many  years  ago  that  de- 
stroyed the  cities  of  Napier  and  Hastings.  The  school  had  to  be  aband- 
oned because  the  building  was  so  damaged  that  it  was  not  usable.  But 
the  effect  of  the  school  on  that  little  community  had  been  such  that  they 
were  selected  from  among  all  the  Maori  groups  in  New  Zealand  as  out- 
standing to  try  out  the  program  of  improving  their  opportunities  for 
education  and  by  developing  their  farms,  etc. 

When  the  Government  officials  learned  that  we  were  planning  to 
replace  our  old  chapel  with  a  new  one  they  said :  "If  you  want  to  build 
a  chapel  among  those  people  and  will  work  with  us,  we  will  furnish  you 
the  men  to  build  the  chapel  if  you  will  supply  the  material."  Not  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  these  men  saw  the  benefits  that  came  into  the  lives 
of  our  people  because  they  kept  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  They 
said  :  "Your  people  do  not  drink ;  they  do  not  smoke ;  they  are  not  care- 
less morally  as  are  some  of  the  other  natives  of  this  country."  I  hope 
you  will  remember  that,  my  brethren  and  sisters — "Your  people  do  not 
smoke;  your  people  do  not  drink" — and  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  real 
Latter-day  Saints  neither  smoke  nor  drink  nor  profane.  We  may  make 
a  pretense  of  worthiness  but  we  are  not  Latter-day  Saints  when  we  vio- 
late the  commandments  of  our  Heavenly  Father  in  that  particular.  He 
said  that  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  "adapted  to  the  weak  and  the  weakest 
of  all  saints  who  are  or  can  be  called  Saints."  So  He  Himself  has  in- 
dicated that  we  should  not  be  called  Latter-day  Saints  unless  we  observe 
that  law. 

We  found  the  people  down  there  clothed  in  their  native  costumes, 
the  "Lava  Lava"  in  the  Samoan  Islands,  and  the  "Vala"  in  the  Tongan 
Islands. 

NATIVE  CLOTHING 

Both  men  and  women  were  simply  but  modestly  attired  at  our  con-  , 
ference  at  Pesega,  Apia,  Samoa,  where  we  celebrated  the  50th  anniversary 
of  the  arrival  of  our  missionaries  on  those  islands.  There  was  an  audi- 
ence of  over  twelve  hundred  native  members  of  the  Church,  not  one  of 
them  dressed  in  European  cloth  but  attired  in  native  material.  Two 
hundred  of  the  sisters  of  the  Relief  Society  wore  cream  colored  dresses 
of  tapa  cloth  that  they  themselves  had  made  from  the  bark  of  trees. 
First  they  stripped  the  bark  and  reduced  it  to  pulp,  using  a  large  log  for 


Elder  george  albert  smith  31 


a  table.  Then  they  pounded  the  pulp  with  a  club,  something  like  a  rolling 
pin  until  they  flattened  it  out  like  paper  and  made  it  of  such  a  texture 
that  they  could  fashion  clothing  from  it.  Those  women  were  really 
dressed  in  garments  of  their  own  make  and  design.  Each  wore  a  purple 
and  white  Ula  around  their  necks,  this  decoration  also  made  by  them- 
selves. The  dresses  were  generally  one  piece,  nicely  fitted  like  an  Ameri- 
can dressmaker  might  have  made  them.  Most  of  the  people  had  fine 
physiques  and  were  modest  and  dignified  in  bearing — hair  and  eyes 
black,  skin  brown,  teeth  pearly  white,  all  bareheaded  and  barefooted. 
They  came  in  a  group  to  greet  us  along  with  two  thousand  other  people 
when  we  landed  in  Apia.  It  was  an  impressive  welcome.  They  are  a 
credit  to  the  Relief  Society  of  this  Church.  They  are  faithful  and  de- 
voted to  their  society  and  are  seeking  to  keep  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord.  If  our  Relief  Society  sisters  at  home  are  as  faithful  as  those  na- 
tive women  I  know  that  the  Lord  is  pleased  with  them. 

MEN  OF  WISDOM  AND  ABILITY 

It  was  a  joy  to  find  among  that  dark-skinned  people  men  and  women 
who  bore  their  testimony  with  power  and  with  wisdom.  One  of  the 
finest  interpreters  I  have  ever  seen  in  my  life  was  Fitsemann  Malietoa, 
a  Samoan  Elder,  who  weighed  three  hundred  and  fifty-four  pounds,  was 
four  feet  eleven  inches  tall  in  his  bare  feet.  He  stood  beside  us  and 
interpreted  the  messages  of  Brother  Hardy  and  myself  and  others  who 
spoke  in  English  with  a  power  and  a  dignity  that  was  inspiring  and 
made  me  feel  more  than  grateful  that  such  people  identify  themselves 
with  the  Church.  Our  interpreter  is  also  the  interpreter  for  the  Governor 
of  the  Nation  in  the  native  court. 

Governor  and  Mrs.  A.  C.  Turnbull  attended  the  first  conference 
meeting  of  the  celebration  where  more  than  a  thousand  people  sat  on 
the  floor  on  mats  with  their  limbs  curled  up  under  them  for  two  hours, 
yet  at  the  end  of  that  time  they  did  not  indicate  that  they  were  weary. 
First  one  group  and  then  another  from  the  various  branches  of  the 
Church  sang  hymns,  and  the  harmony  and  volume  delighted  everybody. 
The  Governor  said:  "This  is  wonderful.  Where  do  these  people  all 
come  from  ?"  I  think  he  had  never  seen  anything  like  it,  yet  he  had  been 
Governor  there  for  many  years. 

FOR  THE  BLESSING  OF  MANKIND 

The  work  of  the  Lord  goes  forward  in  the  South  Pacific.  The 
Polynesian  people  are  all  the  children  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  It  is 
your  privilege  and  mine  to  divide  with  them  the  Gospel  of  our  Lord,  and 
to  carry  the  message  of  life  and  salvation  to  them  not  only  for  their 
benefit  but  to  earn  our  own  exaltation. 

We  will  attain  our  exaltation  in  the  Celestial  Kingdom  only  on  the 
condition  that  we  divide  with  our  Father's  other  children  the  blessings 
of  the  Gospel  of  our  Lord  and  observe  the  commandments  that  will  en- 
rich our  lives  here  and  hereafter. 


32  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  7  First  Day 

I  am  grateful  to  be  back  with  you  again.  I  have  never  been  more 
kindly  treated  or  more  courteously  received  as  a  servant  of  the  Lord  in 
any  part  of  the  wide  world  than  I  was  down  there  in  the  South  Seas 
among  those  fine  descendants  of  Father  Lehi. 

I  pray  that  we  will  be  loyal  to  the  President  of  this  Church  and  his 
associates  and  to  our  Heavenly  Father.  It  is  just  such  a  group  as  this 
that  will  leaven  the  lump,  and  radiate  such  an  influence  among  the  children 
of  men  that  they  will  be  compelled  to  listen.  With  our  sweet  singers  and 
our  eloquent  preachers  and  with  our  desire  to  bless  mankind  the  time  is 
not  far  distant  when  people  everywhere  will  join  in  singing  praises  to 
the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah, — he  who  gave  to  us  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  by  direction  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  in  this  latter  day. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know  this  is  God's  work ;  I  know 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ ;  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  the 
Lord ;  I  know  that  the  authority  of  the  Priesthood  is  with  this  Church 
and  knowing  it  I  bear  witness  of  it  unto  you  in  humility  and  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  were  very  grateful  for  the  splendid  attendance  at  the  Elijah 
oratorio  last  night.  I  was  greatly  disappointed  at  the  attendance  the  night 
before.  When  I  thought  of  the  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  of  hours 
that  our  good  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  choir  have  devoted  without 
financial  reward,  I  was  humiliated  with  the  first  night's  attendance.  These 
tabernacle  choir  and  organ  broadcasts  are  the  greatest  advertisement  for 
Utah  that  could  possibly  be  given,  and  the  Choir  gives  its  services  free. 
Every  time  the  Choir  gives  a  concert  here  we  should  come  and  support 
it,  and  if  we  would  buy  some  additional  tickets  and  give  them  away  it 
would  be  a  good  thing. 

URGES  CARE  BE  EXERCISED  ON  STREETS  AND  HIGHWAYS 

I  would  like  to  warn  each  and  all  of  you  to  be  careful.  To  the 
utter  disgrace  of  Utah  we  lead  the  whole  nation  in  automobile 
accidents.  It  is  a  shame,  we  should  be  the  most  careful  and  the 
most  considerate  people.  I  hope  that  we  will  be  very  careful  in 
crossing  the  streets.  I  have  been  traveling  time  and  time  again  at 
twenty-five  miles  an  hour,  when  that  was  the  speed  limit,  and  have 
had  people  pass  me  like  I  was  hitched  to  a  post. 


The  Singing  Mothers  sang  the  anthem,  "O  Bread  of  Life." 
Elder  H.  Fred  Egan,  President  of  the  South  Summit  Stake  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


33 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  second  session  of  the  Conference  convened  promptly  at  two 
o'clock  p.  m.,  with  President  Heber  J.  Grant  presiding. 

The  musical  exercises  for  this  session  of  the  Conference  were 
furnished  by  the  Woodruff  Stake  Choir,  under  the  direction  of  Elder 
John  Nielson.  The  Choir  sang  as  an  opening  number  "The  Song  of 
the  Redeemed." 

Elder  Spencer  Kimball,  President  of  the  Mt.  Graham  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

The  Choir  sang  "In  Our  Redeemer's  Name  (Stephens). 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  that  I  would  like  to  bear  my  testimony 
to  this  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints.  It  seems  to  me  that  it  is  our 
duty,  if  we  have  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel,  to  bear  that  testimony,  not 
only  occasionally,  but  frequently,  and  if  we  fail  to  do  this  we  are  "hiding 
our  light  under  a  bushel." 

A  testimony  of  the  Gospel  is  very  precious.  There  are  millions  of 
people,  children  of  God,  on  this  planet  that  have  no  such  testimony,  and 
that  perhaps  have  never  heard  a  testimony  such  as  we  have,  and  such  as 
many  of  our  children  have  received. 

JOSEPH  AND  HYEUM  SMITH 

I  have  been  laboring  fifty  years  in  the  ministry.  I  did  not  know  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  his  brother  Hyrum,  but  I  am  acquainted  with 
the  stupendous  work  that  they  accomplished  under  divine  help,  and  to 
me  that  is  a  testimony  of  the  truth  of  the  Gospel,  because  I  do  not 
think  it  is  humanly  possible  for  any  individual  to  accomplish  the  work 
that  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  accomplished  without  divine  help,  and 
I  feel  as  if  I  know  the  Prophet  and  his  brother  Hyrum  about  as  well 
as  if  I  had  lived  in  Nauvoo  at  the  time  of  their  martyrdom. 

BRIGHAM  YOUNG  A  PROPHET 

I  was  acquainted  with  President  Brigham  Young.  I  rode  with  him 
by  invitation  on  a  trip  through  Southern  Utah  and  felt  that  it  was  a 
great  distinction  to  ride  with  the  prophet  of  God.  I  was  deeply  im- 
pressed with  the  importance  of  myself  on  that  occasion. 

He  was  a  great  man ;  he  was  a  leader  of  men ;  he  was  a  pioneer,  but 
above  all  he  was  a  prophet  of  God,  a  servant  of  the  Almighty,  and  I  am 
happy  to  say  that  I  knew  him  fairly  well,  and  knew  of  his  work  and  of 
his  life,  and  that  is  a  testimony  to  me. 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  7 


First  D*f 


FIVE  OTHER  GREAT  LEADERS 

I  was  acquainted  with  President  John  Taylor  who  is  designated 
as  a  champion  of  the  truth.  He  was  a  valiant  man,  an  able  president, 
a  man  of  great  firmness  of  purpose,  and  who  exerted  an  influence  for 
good  throughout  the  Church  and  throughout  the  world. 

President  Woodruff  won  great  distinction  in  the  mission  field.  He 
was  certainly  an  energetic  man  and  a  successful  missionary.  He  found 
the  field  white  and  ready  for  harvest,  and  brought  many,  many  souls 
into  the  Church,  both  in  the  east  and  in  the  west,  as  also  in  Great  Britain. 
He  was  a  humble  man,  but  that  rather  added  distinction  to  his  great- 
ness. I  always  admired  President  Woodruff.  His  life  was  a  testimony 
to  me. 

President  Lorenzo  Snow,  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty, 
brought  the  Church  out  of  financial  difficulties  and  stress.  He  was  a 
cultured  man ;  he  was  a  wise  counselor,  a  great  leader  and  prophet.  To 
me  his  life  and  labors  are  a  testimony  of  the  truth  of  the  Gospel. 

We  are  all  acquainted  with  the  life  of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
a  man  of  great  strength  of  character,  a  man  who  stood  firm  and  steadfast 
to  the  truth.  He  advocated  powerfully  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Though  dead  he  lives  in  his  testimony  and  his  writings.  He  was  much 
beloved  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  loved  him. 

And  now  we  come  to  our  living  prophet  and  leader,  President  Heber 
J.  Grant.  You  are  as  familiar  with  his  life  and  testimony  as  I  am.  He 
is  a  very  active  man  and  has  already  accomplished  a  great  work. 

EXPERIENCES  IN  THE  MINISTRY 

In  my  ministry  during  the  past  thirty-nine  years  I  have  traveled 
601,000  miles  preaching  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  bearing  testi- 
mony of  its  restoration  to  earth.  I  speak  of  this  modestly  because  my 
experience  is  simply  the  experience  of  the  Twelve.  They  are  all  just 
as  active,  perhaps  more  so,  than  I  have  been.  They  may  not  have  noted 
it  down,  but  it  is  so  recorded  in  their  behalf. 

Now,  you  see,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  by  my  experience,  that  the 
Twelve  are  a  traveling  high  council.  They  are  so  designated  in  a  reve- 
lation given  to  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet.  They  are  constantly  upon 
the  road,  so  to  speak,  and  are  contacting  presidents  of  stakes  and  coun- 
selors, high  councilors,  bishoprics  of  wards  and  other  prominent  officials 
in  the  various  Stakes  of  Zion  and  throughout  the  United  States,  Canada 
and  Mexico.  They  are  contacting  to  some  extent  the  missions  on  the 
isles  of  the  sea,  and  also  have  contacted  to  a  greater  extent  the  European 
missions.  That  is  our  life's  job,  that  is  the  responsibility  that  is  upon 
us.  In  addition  to  all  this  we  have  many  home  duties  and  many  meetings 
at  headquarters.  Well,  I  pause  to  say  we  have  time  to  eat  a  little  and 
sleep  a  little  and  then  we  are  on  the  go  again. 

My  experience  among  the  members  of  the  Church  and  the  officials 
in  the  Stakes  of  Zion  has  been  very  happy  and  my  testimony  of  the 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


35 


Gospel  has  been  strengthened  by  having  made  these  contacts  and  by 
observing  the  good  works  and  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

TESTIMONY  OF  THE  HOLY  GHOST 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  the  greatest  testimony  that  has  come 
to  me  in  all  my  life  time  is  the  testimony  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  gift  I 
received  at  the  time  of  my  baptism.  That  will  be  an  unfailing  testi- 
mony as  long  as  I  am  faithful  in  magnifying  my  calling  and  in  keeping 
the  commandments  of  God.  I  will  have  that  testimony  in  my  very  soul, 
and  it  is  my  solemn  duty  to  bear  it  before  the  saints  of  God  and  before 
the  people  of  the  world. 

There  may  be  some  young  people  among  us  who  haven't  got  the 
testimony  that  I  speak  of.  They  may  say,  "I  do  not  know  the  Gospel 
is  true,  but  I  believe  it  is  true."  That  is  a  good  testimony.  It  is  a  fine 
thing  if  they  believe  it.  There  are  hundreds  and  thousands  and  millions 
of  people  who  do  not  believe  it.  So  if  our  children  believe  it  is  true  we 
surely  should  be  thankful  for  that,  and  if  they  will  hold  on  to  their 
belief  and  cultivate  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  their  hearts  the  testimony 
will  come  later.  With  some  young  people  in  the  Church  and  perhaps 
with  some  older  ones  too,  they  know  the  Gospel  is  true,  but  they  do  not 
know  that  they  know  it.  They  have  not  yet  made  the  discovery,  but 
they  feel  it  in  their  hearts.  They  are  almost  afraid  to  testify  to  that 
effect,  but  let  them  cling  to  their  belief  and  be  faithful,  and  the  Lord 
will  give  them  a  testimony. 

Now,  I  would  like  to  say  in  conclusion,  that  what  I  am  and  what 
I  may  have  accomplished  in  the  world  is  what  the  Gospel  has  done  for 
me,  and  what  you  are  and  what  you  have  accomplished  the  Gospel  has 
done  for  you.  What  is  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  ?  It  is  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation,  and  if  we  persist  in  that  testimony  and  magnify 
that  power  in  our  callings  it  will  be  our  salvation.  Much  more  might 
be  said  upon  this  subject  of  salvation.  To  obtain  salvation  in  the  pres- 
ence of  God  is  the  very  aim  of  our  life  in  mortality.  By  that  I  mean 
we  shall  triumph  over  all  our  enemies  and  put  them  under  our  feet  and 
reign  with  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  That  is  an  end  much  to  be  desired ; 
that  is  a  consummation  that  can  be  accomplished  and  will  be  accom- 
plished by  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

CONTACT  WITH  THE  ADVERSARY 

The  Lord  bless  you.  I  might  add  a  word  or  two  respecting  my 
testimony  which  has  been  greatly  strengthened  by  some  personal  experi- 
ences. I  have  contacted  the  enemy,  I  have  met  the  adversary  under 
peculiar  circumstances.  I  realize  that  he  is  a  very  shrewd  fellow.  He 
is  seeking  our  destruction.  I  have  met  him  when  he  was  operating 
through  the  spirit  of  mobocracy,  and  have  been  placed  in  some  rather 
uncertain  and  dangerous  situations.  I  was,  however,  preserved  and 
delivered  from  the  power  of  the  evil  one,  and  I  attribute  this  to  the 
mercy  of  God.   I  have  come  to  the  conclusion  that,  in  life  or  in  death, 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  7  First  Dag 

I  must  cleave  to  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  order  to  be  saved, 
and  I'm  sure  that  is  the  conclusion  of  every  faithful  Latter-day  Saint. 
"What  doth  it  profit  a  man  if  he  gain  the  whole  world  and  in  the  end 
lose  his  own  immortal  soul  ?" 

So  the  Gospel  should  be  everything  to  us.  It  is  most  precious 
indeed.  I  humbly  pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Lord  will  con- 
tinue to  bless  me  and  qualify  me  for  the  work  that  he  wishes  me  to  do, 
and  I  humbly  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  rest  upon  each  one, 
that  you  will  strive  to  do  His  will,  that  in  the  end  you  may  have  this 
precious  gift  of  salvation,  because,  as  the  Lord  says,  "there  is  no  greater 
gift" 

May  the  Lord  bless  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters :  It  is  my  privilege  in  standing  before 
you  to  present  a  very  old  doctrine  and  one  that  has  come  down  through 
the  ages,  but  one  that  has  not  been  very  well  observed  and  is  not  being 
observed  today.  To  fortify  my  position  I  am  going  to  present  my 
authority. 

THE  COMMAND  TO  REMEMBER  THE  SABBATH  DAY 

Remember  the  Sabbath  day  to  keep  it  holy. 
Six  days  shalt  thou  labor,  and  do  all  thy  work. 

But  the  seventh  day  is  the  sabbath  of  the  Lord  thy  God:  in  it  thou 
shalt  not  do  any  work,  thou,  nor  thy  son,  nor  thy  daughter,  thy  man- 
servant, nor  thy  maidservant,  nor  thy  cattle,  nor  thy  stranger  that  is  with- 
in thy  gates : 

For  in  six  days  the  Lord  made  heaven  and  earth,  the  sea,  and  all  that 
in  them  is,  and  rested  the  seventh  day;  wherefore  the  Lord  blessed  the 
Sabbath  day,  and  hallowed  it. 

That  is  the  law,  a  law  that  was  pronounced  by  Moses,  but  it  is  much 
older,  it  was  in  existence  from  the  beginning  of  the  earth. 

THE  LAND  TO  OBSERVE  THE  SABBATH 

Again,  the  Sabbath  for  the  land  was  to  be  observed  as  well  as  for 
man,  and  also  for  the  beasts.  You  will  find  that  recorded  in  the  25th 
chapter  of  Leviticus. 

Again,  failure  to  observe  this  law  would  bring  suffering,  the  people 
would  be  scattered,  and  the  land  would  then  observe  its  Sabbath.  You 
will  find  that  in  Leviticus  26th  chapter. 

The  Lord  says :  And  I  will  scatter  you  among  the  heathen,  and  will 
draw  out  a  sword  after  you;  and  your  land  shall  be  desolate,  and  your 
cities  waste. 

Then  shall  the  land  enjoy  her  sabbaths,  as  long  as  it  lieth  desolate, 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  37 


and  ye  be  in  your  enemies'  land;  even  then  shall  the  land  rest,  and  enjoy 
her  sabbaths. 

As  long  as  it  lieth  desolate  it  shall  rest :  because  it  did  not  rest  in  your 
sabbaths,  when  ye  dwelt  upon  it.  (Leviticus  26.) 

Thus  saith  the  Lord,  keep  ye  judgment,  and  do  justice;  for  my  salva- 
tion is  near  to  come,  and  my  righteousness  to  be  revealed. 

Blessed  is  the  man  that  doeth  this,  and  the  son  of  man  that  layeth  hold 
on  it;  that  keepeth  the  sabbath  from  polluting  it,  and  keepeth  his  hand 
from  doing  any  evil.    (Isaiah,  56:1-2.) 

If  thou  turn  away  thy  foot  from  the  sabbath,  from  doing  thy  pleasure 
on  my  holy  day ;  and  call  the  sabbath  a  delight,  the  holy  of  the  Lord,  honor- 
able; and  shalt  honor  him,  not  doing  thine  own  ways,  nor  finding  thine 
own  pleasure,  nor  speaking  thine  own  words  : 

Then  shalt  thou  delight  thyself  in  the  Lord ;  and  I  will  cause  thee  to 
ride  upon  the  high  places  of  the  earth,  and  feed  thee  with  the  heritage  of 
Jacob  thy  father:  for  the  mouth  of  the  Lord  hath  spoken  it.  (Isaiah, 
58:13-14.) 

Thus  saith  the  Lord :  take  heed  to  yourselves,  and  bear  no  burden 
on  the  sabbath  day,  nor  bring  it  in  by  the  gates  of  Jerusalem ; 

Neither  carry  forth  a  burden  out  of  your  houses  on  the  sabbath  day, 
neither  do  ye  any  work,  but  hallow  ye  the  sabbath  day,  as  I  commanded 
your  fathers. 

But  they  obeyed  not,  neither  inclined  their  ear,  but  made  their  neck 
stiff,  that  they  might  not  hear,  nor  receive  instruction. 

*  *  *  * 

But  if  ye  will  not  hearken  unto  me  to  hallow  the  sabbath  day,  and  not 
to  bear  a  burden,  even  entering  in  at  the  gates  of  Jerusalem  on  the  sabbath 
day;  than  will  I  kindle  a  fire  in  the  gates  thereof,  and  it  shall  devour  the 
palaces  of  Jerusalem,  and  it  shall  not  be  quenched.  (Jeremiah,  17:21-27.) 

Thus  saith  the  Lord  God :  In  the  day  when  I  chose  Israel,  and  lifted  up 
mine  hand  unto  the  seed  of  the  house  of  Jacob,  and  made  myself  known 
unto  them  in  the  land  of  Egypt,  when  I  lifted  up  mine  hand  unto  them, 
saying,  I  am  the  Lord  your  God ; 

In  that  day  that  I  lifted  up  mine  hand  unto  them,  to  bring  them  forth 
of  the  land  of  Egypt  into  a  land  that  I  had  espied  for  them,  flowing  with 
milk  and  honey,  which  is  the  glory  of  all  lands ; 

Then  said  I  unto  them,  Cast  ye  away  every  man  the  abominations  of 
his  eyes,  and  defile  not  yourselves  with  the  idols  of  Egypt :  I  am  the  Lord 
your  God. 

But  they  rebelled  against  me,  and  would  not  hearken  unto  me ;  they 
did  not  every  man  cast  away  the  abominations  of  their  eyes,  neither  did 
they  forsake  the  idols  of  Egypt ;  then  I  said,  I  will  pour  out  my  fury  upon 
them,  to  accomplish  my  anger  against  them  in  the  midst  of  the  land  of 
Egypt. 

But  I  wrought  for  my  name's  sake,  that  it  should  not  be  polluted 
before  the  heathen,  among  whom  they  were,  in  whose  sight  I  made  myself 
known  unto  them,  in  bringing  them  forth  out  of  the  land  of  Egypt. 

Wherefore  I  caused  them  to  go  forth  out  of  the  land  of  Egypt,  and 
brought  them  into  the  wilderness. 

And  I  gave  them  my  statutes,  and  showed  them  my  judgments,  which 
if  a  man  do,  he  shall  even  live  in  them. 

Moreover  also  I  gave  them  my  sabbaths,  to  be  a  sisn  between  me  and 
them,  that  they  may  know  that  I  am  the  Lord  that  sanctify  them.  (Ezekiel, 
20:5-12.) 


38  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  7 


First  Da- 


I  have  a  good  many  more  passages  of  scripture  here,  but  I  am  not 
going  to  take  time  to  read  more  from  the  Bible,  for  this  will  suffice. 

THE  COUNSEL  OF  LATTER-DAY  LEADERS 

On  the  25th  day  of  July,  1847,  the  day  after  the  pioneers  entered 
this  valley,  it  being  the  Sabbath  day  a  meeting  was  held,  President 
Brigham  Young  spoke  to  the  assembly  as  follows: 

He  told  the  brethren  that  they  must  not  work  on  Sunday;  that  they 
would  lose  five  times  as  much  as  they  would  gain  by  it.  None  were  to  hunt 
on  that  day ;  and  there  should  not  any  man  dwell  among  us  who  would  not 
observe  these  rules.  They  might  go  and  dwell  where  they  pleased,  but 
should  not  dwell  with  us. 

The  same  day  President  Heber  C.  Kimball,  first  counselor  in  the 
Presidency  said : 

I  advise  you  to  keep  the  sabbath  day  holy,  whether  others  do  or  not. 
If  you  wish  to  go  hunting  or  to  see  the  country,  seek  a  week  day  for  that 
purpose.  Do  not  let  us  get  giddy  and  light-minded,  as  the  Nephites  did  of 
old,  but  strive  to  work  righteousness  in  the  beginning. 

And  on  other  occasions  these  brethren  spoke  on  this  subject.  Again 
from  President  Brigham  Young,  this  time  at  a  conference  of  the  Church, 
April  7,  1850: 

There  is  not  the  first  man  who  has  gained  by  laboring  on  the  sabbath 
day;  necessity  does  not  drive  a  man  to  do  it,  no  such  thing,  but  it  is  their 
own  dispositions,  and  the  spirit  that  is  in  them.  There  is  no  more  necessity 
to  go  to  the  canyons  or  to  hunt  your  cattle  on  the  sabbath  day,  you  might 
as  well  plow.  But  some  feel  that  they  cannot  spare  the  time  on  a  week 
day.  We  have  tried  it  in  traveling  since  we  left  Nauvoo,  and  not  one  time 
having  traveled  on  that  day  have  we  gained  by  it,  but  we  have  lost  a  day 
or  two  the  next  week  to  pay  for  it.  What  is  the  harm?  It  proves  that  we 
treat  lightly  the  rules  of  the  God  of  Nature — the  God  we  serve.  The  God 
that  organized  the  elements  knows  that  we  can  endure.  He  said  to  man, 
When  you  have  labored  six  days,  rest  one.  To  refresh  your  bodies ;  let 
your  horses  and  cattle  rest ;  your  men  and  women,  let  them  rest  *  *  *  Now 
you  gain  nothing  by  transforming  the  ordinances  of  nature  to  your  own 
desires.  Let  them  all  rest,  and  when  the  earth  has  brought  forth  six  years 
let  it  rest  the  seventh.  You  will  not  make  anything  by  transgressing  any 
rule  of  the  God  of  nature. 

Much  has  been  said  by  the  brethren  in  the  day  in  which  we  live.  I 
have  a  quotation  here  from  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  that  I  want  to 
read  to  you,  mainly  because  it  has  never  been  put  in  print.  I  copied  it 
from  a  letter  that  he  wrote  to  one  of  his  daughters  who  was  out  in  the 
mission  field : 

All  things  should  be  done  with  prudence  and  in  moderation — [and  then 
he  quotes  from  the  book  of  Exodus,  and  comments,  as  follows]  :  This  is 
the  command.  It  is  binding  upon  all.  There  are  sound  religious  reasons 
for  it  and  physiological  reasons  not  less  sound.  Indeed  it  is  a  physiological 
as  well  as  a  divine  law.  Those  who  heed  it  will  reap  the  reward  of  obedi- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


39 


ence  to  divine  law,  and  enjoy  the  benefits  of  the  physical  law.  It  is  not  less 
needful  to  the  human  being  than  sleep — although  not  so  speedily  felt.  No 
one  can  live  without  sleep,  neither  can  anyone  survive  long  without  rest. 
The  result  of  sleep  is  no  more  potential  to  prologation  of  life  than  the 
sabbath  rest,  although  we  may  survive  longer  without  the  latter  than  the 
former,  speaking  from  a  physical  point  of  view.  From  a  spiritual  point 
of  view  the  wilful  violation  of  the  law  of  sabbath  rest  is  as  deadly  to 
moral  growth  and  faith,  as  is  the  sleepless  eye  to  the  mortal  being.  But 
the  great  point  is,  God  has  said  it !  and  not  for  his  own  but  for  man's  well 
being;  he  therefore  should  obey.  If  he  does  not  he  will  have  to  abide  the 
consequences  both  temporal  and  spiritual  to  himself. 

Again : 

For  verily  this  is  a  day  appointed  unto  you  to  rest  from  your  labors, 
and  to  pay  thy  devotions  unto  the  most  high.  (Doctrine  and  Covenants 
59:10.) 

We  learn  to  do  by  doing.  Never  can  we  learn  to  do  by  not  doing. 
One  who  closely  shuts  his  eyes,  is  more  blind  than  those  who  are  blind 
indeed.  The  things  of  God  are  discovered  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  not  by 
the  spirit  of  man  or  of  the  world.  Those  who  seek  shall  find,  and  to 
those  who  knock  at  the  door  it  shall  be  opened,  and  those  who  ask  shall 
receive,  and  not  otherwise.  He  that  has  the  spirit  discerns  by  the  spirit 
and  loves  the  works  of  the  spirit,  for  they  give  delight  and  joy.  Who 
gives  himself  to  good  works  finds  beauty  and  reward  in  them ;  and  he 
who  sows  to  the  wind  will  reap  the  whirlwind.  Not  now,  perhaps,  for  that 
which  we  sow  must  first  take  root,  then  spring  forth  and  leaf  and  then 
bear  fruit.  The  fruit  will  be  after  the  kind  of  it  sown  seed.  We  learn 
a  principle  by  coming  in  close  contact  with  and  studying  it,  and  admitting 
it  into  our  minds  and  hearts.  There  is  no  house  that  was  not  built,  no 
tree  that  did  not  grow,  no  knowledge  that  was  not  or  is  not  acquired.  But 
truth  is  eternal — it  was  not  created  or  made,  it  is  as  a  precious  gem.  It 
lies  hidden  from  us  and  we  must  find  it,  and  apply  it,  and  make  it  ours. 

To  those  who  love  human  pleasures  and  pursue  them,  the  duties  of 
life,  the  essential  parts  of  life,  are  irksome,  dry,  pleasureless,  seemingly 
valueless.  But  their  pleasures  will  fade  away,  and  their  joys  will  perish 
and  leave  them  but  the  ashes  of  their  treasure,  with  hopeless  regrets. 
"Honor  the  sabbath  day  and  keep  it  holy,"  and  you  will  know  more  about  it. 

This  letter  was  written  May  10,  1897. 

At  the  October  General  Conference  in  1912,  President  Smith  said : 

"Thou  shalt  honor  the  sabbath  day  and  keep  it  holy."  Do  we  do  it? 
Is  it  necessary  to  do  it?  It  is  absolutely  necessary  to  do  so  in  order 
that  we  may  be  in  harmony  with  God's  law  and  commandments,  and 
whenever  we  transgress  that  law  or  that  commandment  we  are  guilty 
of  transgressing  the  law  of  God.  And  what  will  be  the  result  if  we 
continue?  Our  children  will  follow  in  our  footsteps,  they  will  dishonor 
the  command  of  God  to  keep  one  day  holy  in  seven,  and  will  lose  the 
spirit  of  obedience  to  the  laws  of  God  and  his  requirements,  just  as  the 
father  will  lose  it  if  he  continues  to  violate  the  commandments. 

PRESENT  DAY  CUSTOMS  DECRIED 

Now,  I  am  going  to  be  bold  enough  to  say  something.  In  the  Mon- 
day newspaper  I  found  this : 

The  fifty-eighth  annual  exhibit  of  the  Utah  State  Fair  association — 
popularly  known  as  the  state  fair — proved  a  magnet  Sunday  to  draw 
thousands  of  visitors  and  home  folks  to  the  exposition  grounds. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Dan 


Apparently  anxious  to  get  a  close-up  of  the  production  picture  pre- 
sented in  the  thousands  of  exhibits  displayed  in  the  score  of  fair  depart- 
ments, men,  women,  and  children  kept  the  turnstiles  clicking  from  early 
morning  until  late  at  night.  The  stream  of  visitors  from  3  p.  m.  to  early 
evening  indicated  a  close-to-record  Sunday  crowd. 

That  was  the  Sabbath  day.  Judges  of  horses,  cattle,  sheep  and  swine 
predicted  that  it  would  require  additional  days  in  which  to  pick  the 
winners,  and  so  on. 

In  that  same  issue  the  same  day  another  report  said : 

Stunt  and  exhibition  flying,  accompanied  by  educational  explanations, 
Sunday,  graphically  demonstrated  progress  in  air  transportation  to  a 
crowd  of  10,000  assembled  at  Salt  Lake  City's  municipal  airport. 

The  program,  including  a  talk  by  Governor  Henry  H.  Blood,  marked 
the  opening  day  ceremonies  locally  of  National  Air  Travel  week  and 
set  in  motion  a  daily  round  of  events  calling  attention  to  speed  and  safety 
of  plane  travel. 

Particularly  attracting  attention  of  the  huge  crowd  were  the  antics 
of  three  United  Air  Lines  army  birdmen,  who  put  their  ships  through 
rolls,  loops,  and  dives  and  brought  gasps  from  watchers. 

Now,  this  is  not  the  only  evil ;  there  are  many  others,  but  time  will 
not  permit  me  to  speak  of  them.  Brethren  and  sisters,  where  are  we 
going?  I  think  it  is  a  disgrace  to  the  State  of  Utah,  the  home  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  the  home  of  Brigham  Young,  who  gave  the  counsel 
the  day  after  we  came  into  this  valley  that  we  should  observe  the  Sab- 
bath day,  and  now  today  the  authorities  in  State  and  city  and  village 
everywhere  throw  the  doors  open  for  the  violation  of  the  word  of  God. 
How  many  of  us  were  guilty  of  being  there  ?  We  have  got  to  repent  and 
turn  from  this  evil  lest  the  same  troubles  come  upon  us  that  came  upon 
old  Israel,  as  I  have  read  them  to  you. 

Time  will  not  permit  me  to  say  more.  May  the  Lord  bless  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


I  am  pleased,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  stand  before  you  this 
afternoon  in  the  semi-annual  conference,  and  to  add  my  testimony  to 
those  to  which  you  have  already  listened. 

I  want  to  tell  you  that  I  miss  some  familiar  faces,  especially  the  face 
of  President  J.  Golden  Kimball  whom  we  had  with  us  so  long.  We  were 
told  this  morning  that  he  had  passed  away.  We  shall  miss  him  in  our 
Council  for  a  long,  long  time,  I  am  sure,  because  his  counsel  was  wise 
and  good,  and  we  had  learned  to  love  him.  We  wish  also  to  welcome 
a  new  member  into  our  quorum  whom  you  voted  this  morning  to  support. 
I  assure  him  that  he  will  have  our  love  and  confidence  and  that  we  expect 
to  be  able  to  work  together  in  peace  and  harmony  in  the  furtherance  of 
the  work  of  God. 

I  am  glad  that  I  am  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


41 


Latter-day  Saints.  I  am  glad  that  this  Church  was  established  by  our 
Lord  and  Master.   We  are  told  in  the  third  Article  of  Faith: 

We  believe  that  through  the  atonement  of  Christ  all  mankind  may  be 
saved  by  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel. 

Some  of  our  mission  presidents,  in  reporting  their  Missions  in  the 
temple  the  other  day,  said  that  in  their  districts  there  are  some  people  who 
refuse  to  take  their  literature  and  read  it  because  they  say  they  are  already 
saved,  and  they  have  no  more  to  do.  They  are  sure  that  they  are  saved 
and  will  be  glorified  in  the  presence  of  God.  I  suppose  that  gives  them 
some  comfort,  but  really  I  am  rather  glad  that  I  do  not  have  that  assur- 
ance. I  think  it  would  be  rather  a  bad  influence  in  my  life  if  I  could  sit 
supinely  by  and  feel  that  I  am  saved. 

I  remember  one  time  that  on  a  trip  my  wife  and  I  made  between 
San  Francisco  and  Honolulu  a  certain  minister  in  conducting  Sunday 
services  on  the  boat  told  us  how  sorry  he  felt  for  his  friends  when  he  got 
back  from  divinity  school  to  realize  that  they  were  not  saved,  and  how 
glad  he  was  that  he  was  saved. 

Now  the  atonement  of  Christ  has  done  a  wonderful  thing  for  us 
because  it  has  opened  the  door  to  salvation.  Through  that  atonement  a 
certain  debt  and  obligation  was  paid  and  the  door  was  opened,  Christ 
himself  being  the  first  man  to  go  through,  and  giving  us  all  the  privilege 
of  following.  Now,  the  door  is  not  a  widely  opened  door,  in  a  certain 
sense,  and  in  another  sense  it  is  wide  open,  because  every  man  and 
woman  of  us  should  be  able  to  pass  through  that  door,  and  then  if  we 
do  certain  things  and  live  in  a  certain  way  we  shall  be  able  to  go  on  far 
past  that  door  to  an  exaltation  in  the  presence  of  God. 

Salvation  has  more  than  one  meaning  to  me.  It  is  general  in  the 
sense  that  all  of  us  will  be  raised  from  the  dead  and  be  judged  by  our 
Heavenly  Father.  Exaltation  means  more  than  that;  it  means  that  if 
we  live  as  we  should,  in  harmony  with  the  teachings  of  the  Gospel,  we 
shall  not  only  be  resurrected,  but  we  shall  be  resurrected  to  the  privilege 
of  exaltation  in  the  presence  of  God. 

The  other  day  I  had  occasion  to  look  into  this  third  Article  of  Faith 
just  a  little,  and  was  very  much  interested  in  what  I  found.  In  the  first 
place  I  find  that  the  word  "atonement"  which  is  the  crucial  word  in  that 
Article,  only  occurs  once  in  the  New  Testament,  that  while  the  life  of 
Jesus  Christ  was  devoted  to  that  especial  purpose,  those  who  labored 
with  him  did  not  quite  understand  it  in  its  fullest  meaning,  at  any  rate 
they  did  not  talk  a  great  deal  about  it,  or  if  they  did  the  translators  of  the 
Bible  did  not  see  fit  to  translate  his  remarks  into  the  word  "atonement." 
That  word,  however,  occurs  many  times  in  the  Old  Testament.  I  found 
it  in  forty-seven  different  places  where  it  was  translated  into  Spanish. 
I  have  found  also,  of  the  places  where  it  occurs  in  the  Old  Testament, 
twenty-three  had  been  translated  into  Spanish  by  the  word  "reconcilia- 
tion"; twenty-two  by  the  word  "expiation";  one  by  the  words  "to 
cleanse" ;  and  one  "to  appease." 

Now  they  have  a  very  interesting  significance  to  me,  that  while  God 
did  expiate  the  sin  of  Adam,  and  gave  us  access  to  the  presence  of  God, 


42  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  7  First  Day 

there  is  a  sense  of  reconciliation  in  that ;  he  opened  up  the  way  for  us  to 
reconcile  our  lives  to  Him  and  to  his  service.  I  like  that  word  reconcilia- 
tion very  much  because  that  depends  very  much  upon  us  and  the  things 
we  do. 

I  find  that  in  the  New  Testament  the  men  who  testified  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  his  mission  did  use  the  word  "reconciliation"  a  good  many 
times,  and  some  of  the  very  finest  of  the  references  there  to  the  life  of 
Christ  are  to  the  effect  that  he  did  reconcile  us  to  God,  he  gave  us  that 
wonderful  opportunity.  I  wonder,  then,  if  the  atonement  of  Jesus 
Christ  does  not  depend  for  its  efficacy  very  largely  upon  our  own  actions, 
our  own  lives. 

I  remember  one  time  in  the  Mexican  Mission  that  a  certain  very 
excellent  brother  who  pretended  to  some  rather  intimate  and  inside 
knowledge  of  the  workings  of  the  Church  because  he  had  been  baptized 
here  in  Salt  Lake  City  and  had  lived  some  time  under  the  droppings 
of  the  sanctuary,  insisted  that  we  are  saved  by  the  grace  of  God,  and 
that  alone.  I  had  occasion  to  look  into  the  scriptures  and  search  out  a 
few  instances  where  they  insist  that  we  are  judged  according  to  our 
works,  and  I  found  three  or  four  long  pages  of  closely  type-written  quo- 
tations, which  I  submitted  to  him,  all  stating  that  man  is  to  be  judged 
according  to  his  works. 

Now,  if  we  insist  on  limiting  salvation  to  the  word  resurrection, 
then  we  must  all  admit  that  by  the  grace  of  God  we  are  saved,  and  it  is 
also  true  that  it  was  a  very  gracious  act  on  the  part  of  Jesus  Christ  to 
give  us  the  privilege  of  working  out  through  good  deeds  an  exaltation 
in  the  presence  of  God.  And  if  we  limit  it  to  those  two  senses,  then  by 
the  grace  of  Jesus  Christ  alone,  we  are  saved;  but  I  have  never  felt 
like  limiting  it  to  that  significance  alone.  I  feel  that  salvation  moves 
over  into  the  realm  of  exaltation,  and  that  before  a  man  is  completely 
saved  he  must  be  exalted  in  the  presence  of  God,  and  to  be  exalted  his 
deeds  must  justify  that  exaltation. 

Then,  brethren  and  sisters,  am  I  not  justified  in  assuming  that  the 
atonement  of  Christ  for  its  efficacy  depends  somewhat  at  least  upon  us 
here,  and  that  we  are  able  through  good  deeds  to  make  that  full  and 
complete,  or  through  bad  deeds  to  make  it  fail  in  its  ultimate  purpose. 
I  believe  it,  and  that  is  the  testimony  that  I  would  like  to  leave  with  you 
this  afternoon,  that  what  we  realize  out  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
depends  upon  us  very  largely,  and  that  if  we  insist  on  saying  that  we 
do  not  gain  salvation  for  ourselves  we  must  grant  that  our  exaltation  does 
depend  very  largely  upon  our  acts.  We  cannot  expect  to  attain  the 
highest  glory  if  we  go  through  this  life  in  petty  bickerings,  in  jealousy, 
and  selfish  acts.  Love  is  the  genius  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
love  and  jealousy  are  hardly  bedfellows.  We  must,  before  we  can  love 
our  neighbors,  take  them  into  our  confidence,  eradicate  from  our  souls 
the  jealousy  that  we  may  feel  towards  them.  If  we  are  jealous  of  our 
neighbor  and  of  his  success,  how  can  we  fully  love  him,  and  vice  versa  ? 
If  we  love  our  neighbor  as  we  should  how  can  we  be  jealous  of  his 
success,  and  if  we  love  him  we  will  not  be  too  jealous  of  our  own  pre- 


ELDER  CARL  F.  EYRING 


43 


rogatives,  and  our  own  relationship  with  him.  We  will  be  willing  to 
grant  to  that  friend  and  that  neighbor  a  part  of  the  privilege  that  is  ours, 
if  by  doing  so  we  can  benefit  him  and  bless  him  and  carry  him  on  to 
a  more  perfect  state  of  service. 

That  to  me  is  the  greatest  principle  in  the  Gospel — the  love  of  one 
for  another.  The  love  that  Jesus  Christ  had  for  us  impelled  him  to  come 
to  earth  to  go  through  the  trials  and  the  troubles  of  mortality,  to  lay 
down  his  life,  and  walk  through  the  door  of  the  resurrection  into  eternal 
life,  holding  ajar  for  us  that  door,  that  if  we  love  him  and  if  we  keep  his 
commandments  we  may  follow  through  after  him  into  eternal  life  and 
exaltation  in  the  presence  of  God.  And  that  this  may  be  our  happy  lot, 
is  the  prayer  I  ask  for  all  of  us,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 


The  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "Grant  Us  Peace"  (Stephens). 

ELDER  CARL  F.  EYRING 

President  of  the  New  England  Mission 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters :  Once  more  I  am  back  to  General 
Conference  as  a  mission  president.  Once  more  I  feel  the  grandeur  of 
your  presence.  Our  congregations  in  the  mission  field  are  small,  and 
to  come  here  where  crowds  throng  into  this  spacious  building  makes  me 
feel  that  I  have  truly  come  from  the  outer  fringe  to  the  very  center  of 
Mormonism. 

More  than  you  may  realize,  we  of  the  missions  look  to  you  for  our 
standards  and  patterns.  As  we  come  home  we  find  you  zealous  for  the 
cause  of  righteousness.  We  find  you  struggling  with  your  might  against 
forces  which  debase  the  young  and  old.  We  find  the  various  organiza- 
tions within  the  Church  alert  to  their  duties  and  responsibilities.  We 
rejoice  that  your  religious  life  is  so  dynamic  and  real. 

But  we  are  interested  in  the  stakes  of  Zion  not  only  because  we 
belong  to  the  same  great  organization,  but  because  these  stakes  are  the 
nurseries  in  which  our  missionaries  are  reared.  You  furnish  us  mis- 
sionaries who  have  been  reared  in  true  Latter-day  Saint  homes,  who 
have  been  active  in  all  the  classes  in  the  Sunday  School  from  the  cradle 
roll  to  the  missionary  training  department,  who  have  moved  steadily 
through  the  Primary  and  Mutual  organizations  from  the  beginners  in 
Primary  to  the  M  Men  and  Gleaner  Girls  in  the  Mutual  Improvement 
Associations ;  who,  through  their  mothers,  have  had  a  real  contact  with 
the  Relief  Societies ;  who  have  faithfully  attended  sacrament  meetings ; 
who  have  studied  in  Seminaries,  Institutes  and  Church  schools ;  who 
have  had  teaching  experiences  in  Sunday  Schools,  Primaries,  and  Mutual 
Improvement  Associations,  and  finally  you  send  us  missionaries  who 
have  a  love  of  humanity  in  their  hearts,  and  a  real  desire  to  give  of  their 
talents  in  service.  When  you  do  this,  you  send  trained  missionaries, 
missionaries  with  the  type  of  training  most  needed  in  the  mission  field. 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday.  October  7  First  Dtg 

To  your  training  we  add  the  laboratory  for  missionary  service  and  addi- 
tional help  in  the  Mission  Home  and  the  mission  field.  But  we  cannot 
do  our  best  without  the  years  of  background  which  you  furnish — you 
the  parents,  you  the  ward  and  stake  officers. 

As  parents  and  officers  in  the  Church  do  we  fully  sense  the  power 
of  our  system  of  religious  education,  the  unique  religious  environment 
in  which  our  children  may  grow  up?  Many  students,  the  world  over, 
recognize  the  uniqueness  and  strength  of  this  phase  of  our  Church.  Let 
us  truly  appreciate  the  value  of  our  ward  and  stake  units  as  instruments 
for  religious  training. 

The  restored  Gospel  is  more  than  a  set  of  theological  doctrines, 
printed  with  patches  of  lifeless  printer's  ink  in  some  gilt-edged  book. 
The  Gospel  becomes  enlivened  only  when  its  principles  operate  in  human 
living,  and  then  not  completely  animated  till  these  principles  operate  in 
the  life  of  a  community.  Too  often  we  forget  the  community  aspect  of 
religion,  and  overlook  the  difficulty  of  putting  dynamics  into  the  restored 
Gospel  without  the  Mormon  community  life.  Mission  presidents  soon 
sense  the  difference  between  wards  in  the  stakes  and  tiny  branches  in 
the  missions.  The  difference  is  not  one  of  doctrine,  nor  lack  of  faith- 
fulness in  the  living  of  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  but  the  Mormon 
community  life  is  absent,  the  religious  education  program  of  a  completely 
organized  stake  is  missing. 

In  the  early  days  of  the  Church  we  gathered  the  converts  to  Zion, 
and  here  we  built  the  world-famous  Mormon  community.  With  forty 
per  cent  of  the  membership  of  the  New  England  Mission  scattered  as 
isolated  families,  we  sense  the  need  of  a  Church-wide  gathering  suitable 
for  this  day,  a  sort  of  nucleation  which  centers  throughout  the  world. 

In  Section  29  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  we  read:  "And  ye 
are  called  to  bring  to  pass  the  gathering  of  mine  elect;  for  mine  elect 
hear  my  voice  and  harden  not  their  hearts;  wherefore  the  decree  has 
gone  forth  from  the  Father  and  they  shall  be  gathered  into  one  place 
on  the  face  of  this  land,  to  prepare  their  hearts  and  be  prepared  in  all 
things  against  the  day  when  tribulation  and  desolation  are  sent  forth 
upon  the  wicked." 

I  am  pleased  to  report  that  your  sons  and  daughters,  the  mission- 
aries of  the  New  England  Mission,  are  safe  and  well.  With  very  few 
exceptions  the  members  of  our  Church  passed  through  the  hurricane 
and  floods  of  New  England  without  loss.  For  all  this  we  are  indeed 
grateful  to  our  Father  in  Heaven,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  FRANK  EVANS 

President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

I  am  much  pleased  to  be  here  again  after  another  very  busy  six 
months  period — and  it  has  been  indeed  a  busy  period.  I  know  that  every 
mission  president  can  testify  to  that,  so  far  as  his  work  is  concerned.  So 
could  all  others  who  are  engaged  in  promulgating  this  Gospel,  for  there 


ELDER  FRANK  EVANS 


45 


is  such  need  in  this  day  for  what  the  Church  has  to  offer  that  those  who 
are  carrying  the  responsibility  of  this  message  find  plenty  to  do.  How- 
ever, an  observation  of  George  Klingle  reminds  us  that, 

God  broke  our  years  to  hours  and  days, 
That  hour  by  hour  and  day  by  day, 
Just  going  on  a  little  way, 
We  might  be  able  all  along  to  keep  quite  strong. 

Should  all  the  weight  of  life 
Be  laid  across  our  shoulders,  and  the  future  rife 
With  woe  and  struggle,  meet  us  face  to  face 
At  just  one  place, 
We  could  not  go ; 
Our  feet  would  stop;  and  so 
God  lays  a  little  on  us  every  day, 
And  never,  I  believe,  on  all  the  way 

Will  burdens  bear  so  deep 
Or  pathways  lie  so  threatening  and  so  steep 
But  we  can  go,  if  by  God's  power 
We  only  bear  the  burden  of  the  hour. 

We  have  had  in  our  mission  some  very  interesting  experiences  of 
late,  some  of  which  I  would  wish  might  be  known  by  the  strong  and  vali- 
ant men  who  have  gone  before  us.  We  are  endeavoring  to  teach  the  same 
things  they  taught  even  a  century  ago,  (for  our  mission  is  more  than  a 
hundred  years  old)  but  their  teachings  are  being  differently  received  to- 
day. Truths  that  our  predecessors  offered  were  rejected  and  ridiculed, 
and  for  their  offerings  they  were  persecuted.  The  same  truths  are  today 
being  received  with  favor.  That  is  not  to  say  that  more  converts  are 
being  made,  for  not  all  are  interested  as  yet  in  the  spiritual  phase  of  our 
message,  but  they  are  interested  in  us  and  in  the  fruits  of  our  doctrines. 
Principles  do  not  change.  We  shall  continue  to  teach  these  century-old 
doctrines.  Our  health  standards  are  the  same  as  those  given  to  the  world 
when  the  Word  of  Wisdom  first  came  forth.  The  Book  of  Mormon  has 
not  changed.  In  the  early  days  it  was  accepted  on  faith.  Today  it  is  read 
and  praised  even  by  those  not  of  the  Faith.  Often  times  this  praise  comes 
from  the  distinguished  and  the  learned.  A  short  time  ago  a  man  who  is 
well  known  throughout  this  nation  and  abroad,  speaking  not  from  our 
standpoint  but  addressing  himself  to  the  subject,  "Books  of  the  19th 
Century,"  said  in  part  that, 

Of  all  the  religious  books  of  the  nineteenth  century  it  seems  probable 
that  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  the  most  powerful. 

The  Doctrine  and  Covenants  is  the  same  as  of  old.  Our  interpreta- 
tions of  the  Bible,  I  imagine,  are  the  same  as  those  learned  and  taught  by 
our  grandfathers  in  the  School  of  the  Prophets.  We  are  taught  the  same 
principles  of  thrift  as  of  old,  that  thrift  is  not  mercenary,  that  although 
it  has  to  do  with  material  things,  it  has  a  moral  and  even  a  spiritual  aspect. 


46  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  7  First  Day 

We  have  always  been  taught  this  doctrine  which  involves  prudent  giving 
and  judicious  spending  as  well  as  intelligent  saving.  It  is  the  wise  ap- 
plication of  resources,  whether  they  be  energy  or  talents,  or  material 
means ;  it  is  the  antithesis  of  waste.  We  have  always  been  taught  that  it 
is  evil  to  commit  waste. 

Our  social  standards  are  very  much  the  same  as  when  the  Articles  of 
Faith  were  first  published  to  the  world,  and  we  are  practicing  those  prin- 
ciples which  are  expressed  in  that  remarkable  Thirteenth  Article  of  Faith. 
Only  a  short  time  ago  a  man  whose  opinion  carries  much  weight  in  his 
own  community  (in  the  city  of  New  York)  said  to  me:  "I  have  been  con- 
tacting your  Elders  for  many,  many  years,"  and  he  turned  to  his  card 
index  and  pointed  out  the  names  of  many  whom  he  had  seen  and  talked 
with,  particularly  upon  business  matters,  and  said :  "In  all  those  inter- 
views I  have  not  heard  one  word,  nor  have  I  seen  a  single  act  that  was 
not  in  accordance  with  the  highest  standards  of  ethics  and  good  morals." 
And  what  interested  me  more  was  his  statement  that  "There  is  some- 
thing behind  it  all." 

"Yes,"  I  said,  "there  is  something  behind  it.  Men  do  not  gather 
grapes  of  thorns  nor  figs  of  thistles.  A  good  tree  bringeth  forth  good 
fruit,  it  cannot  bring  forth  evil  fruit.  An  institution  which  has  made 
history  may  be  approached  by  the  investigator  to  determine  upon  its 
validity  from  two  sources,  first,  by  an  examination  of  its  fundamental 
principles.  That  is  the  approach  that  our  fathers  had  to  make.  It  is  the 
spiritual  approach,  if  you  please.  It  is  the  approach  which  requires  faith. 
We  may  all  be  thankful  that  they  made  that  approach.  If  they  had  not, 
there  would  have  been  no  Church  history.  The  other  approach  is  to  ex- 
amine into  its  achievements,  to  determine  what  it  has  done.  Many  peo- 
ple are  doing  that  today.  As  to  how  many  of  them  go  farther  than  that 
remains  to  be  seen."  But  this  we  do  know,  that  the  Church  is  being  ac- 
cepted as  never  before.  We  have  seen  the  period  of  birth,  of  youth  and 
of  maturity.  We  have  seen  the  period  of  resistance  and  persecution.  I 
sometimes  wonder  if  we  are  not  now  approaching  a  period  which  may 
sometime  be  known  as  a  period  of  expansion. 

We  are  thankful  that  some,  even  though  they  may  be  humble,  even 
though  they  may  be  unlearned,  some  still  have  the  faith  to  appreciate  the 
first  principles,  to  approach  this  great  body  of  truth  from  the  first  view- 
point, that  of  faith  in  its  divine  origin.  You  know  when  the  disciples 
said  to  Thomas,  "We  have  seen  the  Lord,"  he  wanted  a  physical  demon- 
stration of  the  fact,  he  would  not  believe  it,  and  he  said,  "Except  I  shall 
see  in  his  hands  the  prints  of  the  nails  and  put  my  finger  into  the  print  of 
the  nails  and  thrust  my  hand  into  his  side,  I  will  not  believe."  He  was 
making  his  approach  from  the  second  standpoint.  Later,  when  the  Lord 
appeared  again  and  said,  "Thomas,  reach  hither  thy  finger  and  behold 
my  hands,  and  reach  hither  thy  hand  and  thrust  it  into  my  side  and  be  not 
faithless,  but  believing,"  Thomas  answered,  "My  Lord  and  my  God." 
Then  Jesus  said  unto  him,  "Thomas,  because  thou  hast  seen  me  thou  hast 
believed,  blessed  are  they  who  have  not  seen  yet  have  believed." 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


47 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  believe  we  feel  the  responsibility  of  the 
message  which  we  are  endeavoring  to  carry  to  the  world.  I  appreciate 
those  of  your  sons  and  daughters  who  are  in  my  care  for  a  time.  I  praise 
them  for  their  sincerity,  for  their  energy,  for  their  obedience,  and  I  bring 
this  message  to  you,  that  they  are  doing  well  and  that  we  are  making 
progress. 

I  pray  that  we  may  be  able  to  uphold  the  high  standard  of  those  vali- 
ant men  who  have  gone  before  us,  who  never  compromised,  and  who 
knew  no  surrender  or  defeat.   This  I  do,  in  Jesus'  name,  Amen. 

ELDER  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  feel  very  humble,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  standing  before  you 
today.  I  am  grateful  for  my  membership  in  this  Church ;  I  am  grateful 
for  the  opportunities  of  service  which  I  have  enjoyed.  I  am  grateful 
for  a  testimony,  and  that  there  never  comes  into  my  mind  the  shadow  of 
a  doubt  as  to  the  divinity  of  this  work,  and  that  the  Spirit  of  God  is 
directing  its  destiny. 

A  MARVELOUS  WORK 

When  this  work  was  first  instituted  the  Lord  had  in  mind  the 
achievement  of  great  things.  The  prophets  had  seen  and  foretold  them 
many,  many  years  before,  and  when  the  Prophet  Joseph  was  called  in 
his  youth,  the  Lord  made  a  great  assignment  unto  him,  and  he  was  told : 
"Now,  behold,  a  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth  among  the  chil- 
dren of  men."  On  the  first  visitation  of  the  Angel  Moroni  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  he  quoted  many  passages  of  scripture,  among  others 
the  eleventh  chapter  of  Isaiah  where  Isaiah  said :  "And  he  shall  set  up 
an  ensign  for  the  nations  and  shall  assemble  the  outcasts  of  Israel,  and 
gather  together  the  dispersed  of  Judah  from  the  four  corners  of  the 
earth."  And  Joseph  was  told  that  this  day  was  at  hand. 

Two  years  after  the  Church  was  organized  in  a  revelation  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  the  Lord  said : 

For  Zion  must  increase  in  beauty,  and  in  holiness ;  her  borders  must 
be  enlarged ;  her  stakes  must  be  strengthened ;  yea,  verily  I  say  unto  you, 
Zion  must  arise  and  put  on  her  beautiful  garments. 

THE  POWER  OF  GOD  MANIFEST 

The  Lord,  as  I  have  said,  had  a  great  work  to  accomplish,  and  he  pro- 
ceeded to  set  up  an  organization  to  accomplish  that  work,  and  it  has  been 
my  experience  and  my  observation,  because  I  have  been  privileged  to 
work  in  all  the  organizations  of  the  Church,  in  the  mission  field,  and  in 
the  wards  and  stakes  of  Zion,  that  those  who  are  on  the  inside  and  know 


48  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  7  First  Dag 

what  is  actually  being  accomplished  know  that  the  power  of  God  is  in  the 
organization  and  direction  of  this  Church. 

This  morning  we  voted  to  sustain  the  Presidency,  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve  and  the  acting  Presiding  Patriarch  as  prophets,  seers  and  revela- 
tors,  and  I  want  to  bear  testimony  to  you  today  that  they  are  that,  so  far 
as  my  faith  is  concerned.  The  evidence  of  divinity  in  this  work  is  in  the 
accomplishments  of  the  Church,  that  which  is  being  done  by  the  organiza- 
tions the  Lord  has  set  in  the  Church  to  bring  about  the  things  which  he 
had  in  mind,  and  when  we  analyze  this  inspired  organization  it  would  not 
be  consistent  to  attribute  to  mortal  man  that  which  has  been  brought  forth 
for  the  achievement  of  these  things. 

When  we  think  of  the  general  organization — the  General  Authori- 
ties, the  First  Presidency,  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve,  the  Seventies,  the 
Presiding  Bishopric — when  we  think  of  all  the  auxiliary  boards,  and  fol- 
low the  same  organization  through  in  the  stakes  with  the  stake  presi- 
dencies and  high  councils,  a  similar  organization,  and  then  into  the 
wards,  with  the  bishoprics  and  their  helps  in  government,  the  auxiliary 
organizations,  and  then  when  we  think  of  the  work  that  is  being  accomp- 
lished by  these  organizations,  we  must  admit  that  the  power  of  God  is  in 
it.  It  is  not  an  uncommon  thing  for  people  who  come  into  our  midst  to 
tell  us  that  our  Sunday  Schools  are  superior,  that  our  Relief  Society  ex- 
cels other  such  organizations.  It  is  not  an  uncommon  thing  for  people 
to  comment  on  the  work  of  our  Young  Men's  and  Young  Women's  Mu- 
tual Improvement  Associations  and  recognize  in  their  achievements,  the 
leadership  of  youth,  the  like  of  which  cannot  be  found  elsewhere  in  the 
world. 

A  CHURCH  FOR  THE  YOUTH 

A  short  time  before  I  left  Los  Angeles  a  prominent  minister  of  that 
city,  in  delivering  a  radio  address,  said :  "What  we  need  today  is  a  church 
for  the  youth  of  the  land.  We  have  been  preaching  to  the  old  folks  and 
letting  the  children  go  to  the  devil.  That  is  why  our  churches  are  empty 
today"  (and,  incidentally,  there  are  some  twenty  thousand  empty 
churches  in  the  United  States  today.) 

I  could  not  help  but  thank  God  that  we  have  a  church  that  has  a  pro- 
gram for  the  youth  of  the  land.  We  entertained  in  our  beautiful  taber- 
nacle in  Los  Angeles,  the  Deseret  Club  from  the  U.  C.  L.  A.,  and  Mr. 
Evans,  the  man  who  was  in  charge  of  all  the  religious  clubs  on  the  cam- 
pus was  there,  and  while  some  several  hundred  couples  were  engaged  in 
the  dance  he  turned  to  me  and  said:  "Mr.  Richards,  I  wish  the  other 
churches  of  Los  Angeles  could  see  what  I  can  see  here  tonight." 

Then  following  these  auxiliary  organizations  we  have  the  great  or- 
ganization of  the  Priesthood  quorums,  and  I  shall  not  take  time  to  name 
them,  but  from  the  time  a  boy  is  twelve  years  of  age  right  through  until 
men  are  laid  away  in  the  grave  they  share  with  God  divine  authority,  the 
right  to  officiate  in  his  name,  the  right  to  speak  for  him,  the  right  to  direct 
as  officers  in  the  Church. 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


49 


I  was  greatly  impressed  by  a  statement  made  by  one  of  my  boys  when 
he  was  twelve  years  of  age.  He  came  to  me  one  day  and  said :  "Daddy, 
I  have  more  authority  than  the  President  of  the  United  States,  haven't 
I?" 

I  said :  "You  surely  have.  The  President  of  the  United  States  re- 
ceives his  authority  from  the  people,  and  when  his  term  of  office  ends  his 
authority  is  gone,  but  the  authority  you  have  is  from  God,  and  if  you  live 
properly  you  will  enjoy  it  forever  and  ever." 

OPPORTUNITY  FOR  ALL 

What  a  glorious  thing  when  one  understands  the  great  organization 
of  this  Church,  to  know  that  instead  of  a  community  of  a  thousand  peo- 
ple in  which  one  man  is  selected  to  do  all  of  God's  work,  every  boy  and 
every  man  who  is  willing  to  bear  responsibility  is  given  the  opportunity 
if  he  will  only  live  for  it. 

I  have  come  to  believe  that  only  those  who  bear  the  burdens  of  the 
Church,  those  who  labor  in  the  Church,  know  how  to  appreciate  it,  and 
know  of  its  worth  and  its  value. 

ACHIEVEMENTS  THROUGH  GOSPEL'S  RESTORATION 

Then  we  have  other  great  achievements  that  have  come  to  us  from 
the  restoration  of  the  Gospel — the  Book  of  Mormon,  to  which  Brother 
Evans  has  referred ;  the  Word  of  Wisdom ;  the  law  of  tithing ;  the  law  of 
Fast  offerings.  Nowhere  in  all  the  world  can  you  go  and  find  an  institu- 
tion so  marvelously  sustained  as  this  Church  in  financial  and  other  ways. 

I  attended  a  service  in  Atlanta,  Georgia,  where  a  minister  of  the 
Gospel  was  attempting  to  introduce  the  law  of  tithing,  and  after  the 
service  I  was  introduced  to  him  by  a  member  of  his  congregation,  and  I 
said  to  him :  "I  would  like  to  bear  testimony  to  you  that  you  are  on  the 
right  road,  but  instead  of  asking  your  people  to  pay  tithing  for  ten  months, 
why  don't  you  ask  them  to  pay  their  entire  lifetime  ?" 

He  said :  "Oh,  Mr.  Richards,  we  cannot  go  that  far  yet."  And  he 
probably  could  not  in  a  man-made  institution.  But  when  you  are  in  an 
organization  that  has  been  fashioned  by  God  the"  Eternal  Father,  there  is 
life,  there  is  power  in  it,  just  like  there  is  life  in  the  human  body. 

POWER  OF  REVELATION  CONTINUES 

Some  among  us  today  say  that  there  is  no  more  revelation  in  the 
Church,  that  all  revelations  came  in  the  beginning.  It  may  be  true  that 
the  major  revelations  that  were  to  be  written  to  be  a  guide  to  this  people 
and  to  this  Church  came  in  the  days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph.  If  you  go 
into  the  orchard  and  plant  a  tree,  the  planting  of  the  tree  may  be  more 
demonstrative  than  gathering  the  fruit,  but  as  long  as  that  tree  remains 
alive  it  yields  its  harvest,  year  after  year,  without  replanting.  When 
God  organized  this  great  Church  and  put  his  power  in  it,  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Priesthood  and  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  which  we  might 


50  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  7  First  Dag 

know  the  truth  of  all  things  and  by  which  he  makes  manifest  unto  his 
servants  all  things,  things  which  were,  things  which  are,  and  things  which 
are  to  come,  it  was  not  necessary  that  he  should  continue  to  reveal  himself 
from  heaven.  The  program  had  been  revealed  and  a  living  organization 
established  for  its  accomplishment. 

I  want  to  bear  testimony  to  you  today  that  the  power  of  revelation 
is  with  this  Church,  that  these  men  whom  we  voted  this  morning  to  sus- 
tain as  prophets,  seers  and  revelators,  are  prophets,  seers  and  revelators. 
If  there  is  one  thing  I  know  as  well  as  I  know  that  I  live,  it  is  that  God, 
the  eternal  Father,  has  sustained  me  and  blessed  me  with  power  of  leader- 
ship far  beyond  my  ability,  in  the  positions  of  presidency  I  have  held  in 
this  Church.  I  know  it  so  well  that  I  would  not  assume  to  undertake  the 
responsibilities  that  are  mine  at  present  if  I  did  not  know  that  the  spirit 
of  revelation  and  inspiration  and  divine  guidance  were  in  this  Church. 

ACCOMPLISHMENTS  OF  WELFARE  PROGRAM 

I  have  only  mentioned  a  few  of  the  things  that  the  Church  has  ac- 
complished. Since  our  appointment  as  the  Presiding  Bishopric  six 
months  ago  yesterday,  we  have  had  the  privilege  of  meeting  the  executive 
officers  of  eighty  of  the  stakes  of  Zion.  We  have  met  in  a  regional  capa- 
city and  in  these  meetings  we  have  had  the  executive  officers,  the  presi- 
dents of  stakes,  their  counselors,  the  high  councils,  the  bishoprics  of 
wards,  and  the  men  upon  whom  the  responsibility  of  the  leadership  of 
this  Church  rests,  and  we  have  felt  impressed  by  their  power.  In  a  few 
instances  we  have  felt  that  there  was  a  lack  of  understanding,  we  have 
felt  that  some  of  our  leaders  were  on  the  outside  and  had  not  a  full  grasp 
of  the  importance  of  their  work.  These  meetings  have  been  held  par- 
ticularly in  the  interest  of  our  Welfare  Program,  and  I  want  to  bear 
testimony  to  you  today  that  it  is  my  conviction  that  this  Welfare  move- 
ment that  has  been  introduced  by  the  leaders  of  this  Church  is  one  of  the 
great  undertakings  of  the  Church,  and  the  further  we  get  into  it  and  the 
clearer  our  vision  becomes  the  more  important  we  will  realize  this  to  be. 
It  will  do  more  than  feed  the  hungry  and  clothe  the  naked.  It  is  bring- 
ing together  in  a  common  cause  the  hearts  of  men  and  women  so  that 
should  the  time  come  that  shall  be  darker  than  we  have  yet  known  they 
will  know  how  to  stand  shoulder  to  shoulder.  We  have  heard  some  fine 
reports,  we  have  seen  some  fine  work  being  done.  We  learned  in  one 
place  that  in  a  ward  of  200  people  65  of  them  turned  out  one  day  to  thin 
a  beet  patch.  In  another  place  so  many  turned  out  that  they  were  through 
before  the  day  was  over,  and  turned  to  weeding  the  streets  of  the  city. 
We  learned  in  our  last  meeting  at  Idaho  Falls  that  in  one  stake  each 
quorum  of  the  Priesthood  consisting  of  eleven  quorums  of  Elders,  four 
quorums  of  Seventies,  one  High  Priests  quorum,  and  the  High  Council 
and  Stake  Presidency — each  had  a  work  project  for  the  welfare  of  this 
new  movement,  and  the  thing  about  it  that  impressed  us  was  the  type  of 
men  who  are  turning  out  to  work  shoulder  to  shoulder  in  the  field.  Repre- 
senting the  Stake  Presidency  and  the  High  Council,  were  the  mayor  of 


ELDER  BRYANT  S.  HINCKLEY 


51 


the  city,  the  city  land  appraiser,  the  editor  of  the  Journal,  the  president 
of  a  college,  a  seminary  teacher,  a  probate  judge,  a  college  professor, 
chairman  of  the  county  commissioners,  two  high  school  teachers,  two  city 
councilmen,  a  rural  mail  carrier  and  the  State  water  master.  Now,  can 
you  imagine  what  it  is  doing  for  that  type  of  men  when  they  are  out  in 
the  field  together  as  a  quorum,  bearing  the  Priesthood  of  God,  and  labor- 
ing together  for  their  less  fortunate  brethren  and  sisters  ? 

EFFECT  ON  CHURCH  MISSIONARY  SYSTEM 

No  doubt  one  of  the  great  benefits  of  this  movement  will  be  the  effect 
it  will  have  on  the  missionary  system  of  the  Church.  I  was  in  the  mis- 
sion field  when  the  "March  of  Time"  was  shown  and  I  know  some- 
thing of  the  value  that  it  will  be  to  our  missionaries.  I  said  to  the  mis- 
sionaries in  the  South  that  I  was  convinced  that  in  the  not  far  distant 
future  we  would  cease  to  ring  door  bells  and  ask  the  privilege  of  deliver- 
ing our  message,  but  we  would  go  to  the  doors  to  answer  the  calls  that 
would  come  in  to  know  more  about  our  people.  Incidentally,  in  closing 
may  I  add,  that  of  all  the  great  achievements  of  this  Church  that  are  far 
beyond  the  wisdom  and  the  power  and  the  ability  of  mortal  man,  that 
would  indicate  that  the  Spirit  of  God  is  in  this  work,  is  the  great  mission- 
ary system  of  the  Church. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  us,  and  to  enable  us  to  use  the  means  that  are 
ours,  to  press  on  to  the  end,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  BRYANT  S.  HINCKLEY 

President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

Through  the  kindness  of  our  great-hearted  and  benevolent  Presi- 
dent, many  of  the  mission  presidents  are  permitted  to  come  to  General 
Conference,  to  bring  their  problems  here,  to  discuss  ways  and  means  of 
promoting  the  missionary  work,  and  of  course  to  be  inspired  to  a  renewed 
dedication  to  the  great  task  which  is  theirs. 

You  will  pardon  me  if  I  make  some  reference  to  missionary  work. 
Before  I  left  for  a  mission  I  talked  with  a  man  in  this  city  of  reputed 
wisdom,  who  argued  that  if  the  Church  continued  to  maintain  its  mis- 
sionary system  it  would  become  impoverished,  broken  down,  and  driven 
into  bondage.  The  answer  I  made  to  him  then  was  in  broad  terms  some- 
thing like  this:  If  this  Church  or  any  other  organization  can,  by  some 
process,  translate  money  into  character  and  manhood  and  build  faith  in 
the  hearts  of  people,  and  establish  in  their  minds  the  great  ideals  that  go 
with  a  settled  faith  in  God,  they  have  done  something  that  will  per- 
petuate them  in  the  earth. 

I  asked  a  man  today  how  many  years  he  and  his  family  had  given 
to  the  missionary  work — and  he  is  not  an  old  man.  He  said:  "Forty 
years,  and  members  of  my  family  have  labored  in  sixteen  different  mis- 
sions."   If  the  men  who  are  before  me  were  to  compute  the  years  they 


52  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  7  Firtt  Day 

have  given  to  missionary  service,  and  the  money  it  has  cost  them,  it  would 
in  the  aggregate  amount  to  something  colossal.  I  am  safe  in  saying  that 
no  other  people  of  like  number  have  ever  made  a  contribution  of  this 
kind  to  the  world.  I  do  not  believe  the  people  who  have  done  it  are 
distinguished  for  their  poverty.  I  do  not  believe  the  men  and  the  women 
who  have  contributed  to  the  great  missionary  cause  walk  as  inferiors 
among  their  neighbors. 

It  may  seem  as  if  the  cost  per  baptized  convert  is  great,  and  it  is. 
But  the  missionary  service  has  contributed  to  the  Church  much  more 
than  numerical  strength.  It  has  added  numbers.  There  are  people  sit- 
ting in  front  of  me  who  owe  a  debt  of  undying  gratitude  to  some  humble 
missionary  who  visited  their  homes  or  the  homes  of  their  parents,  per- 
haps in  a  far-off  land,  and  brought  the  Gospel  to  them. 

I  should  like  for  a  moment  to  refer  to  one  other  phase  of  this  work : 
What  does  it  mean  to  the  missionary  ?  Much  in  many  ways.  He  very 
soon  discovers  that  it  is  impossible  for  him  to  answer  the  demands  of 
his  mission  unaided  and  unsupported  by  the  Almighty,  and  in  great  sin- 
cerity and  deep  humility  he  seeks  Him,  and  he  finds  Him.  When  the  fire 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  blazes  on  the  altar  of  a  boy's  heart  it  shines  in  his 
eyes,  rings  in  his  voice,  purifies  his  life,  refines  and  elevates  his  thoughts. 
A  great  transformation  takes  place  in  his  soul.  Under  these  circum- 
stances he  learns  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  just 
as  Peter  learned  it,  and  he  comes  to  know  it  with  the  same  certainty  that 
Peter  knew  it. 

Fundamentally,  this  is  the  chief  contribution  which  missionary  work 
makes.  It  plants  in  the  missionary's  soul  an  implicit  faith  in  the  living 
God,  which  is  the  great  principle  upon  which  this  Church  is  built,  and 
the  source  of  its  enduring  achievements.  This  faith  in  God  is  the  foun- 
dation upon  which  the  peace  and  perpetuity  of  society  rests,  and  mis- 
sionary work  makes  this  contribution  as  nothing  else  in  this  Church 
makes  it. 

This  is  my  testimony,  and  I  bear  it  to  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  would  like  again  to  call  your  attention  to  automobile  accidents.  Be 
careful,  please.  Do  not  try  to  go  unless  you  have  the  right  to  go  accord- 
ing to  the  signals.  I  hope  that  this  building  will  be  crowded  tonight  at 
the  performance  of  Elijah.  It  is  one  of  the  finest  things  that  has  ever 
been  here.  If  it  were  given  in  New  York,  you  would  have  to  pay  about 
$5  to  see  and  hear  it,  and  you  would  not  complain,  either. 

I  have  heard  some  people  complain  that  we  ought  to  have  a  twenty- 
five  cent  price.  It  is  mighty  hard  to  give  a  $5  entertainment  for  twenty- 
five  cents. 

If  this  were  a  picture  show,  you  could  stand  it  two  hours  and  a 
half,  but  being  a  religious  service,  I  suppose  you  are  tired. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


53 


THE  MISSIONARY  SYSTEM  AS  AN  EDUCATOR 

But  I  want  to  say  a  word  or  two  in  confirmation  of  what  Brother 
Bryant  S.  Hinckley  has  said.  A  man  who  had  been  around  the  world 
a  number  of  times,  to  whom  I  referred  in  my  remarks  here  once,  his 
neighbor's  boy  was  called  on  a  mission  to  Germany.  This  man  was 
living  at  the  time  in  Soda  Springs,  Idaho.  He  laughed  and  laughed 
at  the  idea  of  that  "clod-hopper"  as  he  called  him,  being  called  on  a  mis- 
sion to  preach  and  to  learn  another  language.  "Why,  it  is  a  joke,"  he 
thought. 

After  the  boy  had  been  away  a  year  and  a  half,  a  letter  came  from 
the  boy  saying:  "I  have  found  some  of  your  relatives  living  here  in 
Berlin.  I  did  not  tell  them  that  I  used  to  work  for  you.  Kindly  send 
me  a  letter  of  introduction."  This  man  told  me  that  when  he  received 
the  letter,  he  laughed  and  said  to  his  wife :  "My  dear,  that  young  man 
won't  know  how  to  behave  himself  in  polite  society.  I  am  not  going 
to  humiliate  him  by  giving  him  a  letter  of  introduction."  But  he  said : 
"After  I  had  slept  on  it,  I  thought  it  was  none  of  my  aflair  if  he  wanted 
to  be  humiliated.    So  I  sent  him  the  letter." 

"Some  time  later  I  received  a  letter  from  my  relatives  saying, 
'Your  young  Mormon  friend  called  on  us.  He  is  a  very  intelligent 
young  man,  and  we  have  thoroughly  enjoyed  our  visit  with  him.'  An- 
other year  and  a  half  rolled  round,  and  I  heard  that  he  had  returned 
home  and  was  going  to  preach  in  the  ward.  I  thought  it  would  be  a 
joke  for  that  boy  to  preach  a  sermon,  so  I  went  to  hear  him,  and  I  heard 
one  of  the  cleanest-cut,  finest  arguments  in  favor  of  your  Church  and 
its  doctrines  that  I  had  ever  heard.  Why,  Mr.  Grant,  your  missionary 
system  through  which  you  call  young  men  to  perform  missions  is  the 
greatest  educator  and  the  greatest  developer  of  young  men  of  any 
system.    It  is  superior  to  any  university,  or  college,  or  seminary."! 

The  Lord  bless  you.  Amen. 


The  Choir  sang  the  "Hosanna"  anthem,  the  congregation  singing 
in  connection  therewith  "The  Spirit  of  God  Like  a  Fire  is  Burning." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  personally  thank  this  choir  for  singing  Evan  Stephens'  anthems. 
I  think  they  are  full  of  spirit,  as  well  as  music. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Levi  S.  Udall,  President  of  the  St.  Johns  Stake. 
Conference  adjourned  until  Saturday  morning,  October  8  at  10 
o'clock. 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  8  Second  Dag 

SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Saturday  morning,  October  8,  at  10  o'clock. 

The  musical  exercises  for  this  session  of  the  Conference  were 
furnished  by  the  Moroni  High  School  Choir,  Ray  Anderson  conducting. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn  "Now  Let  Us  Rejoice." 

Elder  H.  Roland  Tietjen,  President  of  the  South  Sevier  Stake, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "For  the  Strength  of  the  Hills," 
(Stephens). 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  am  sure  it  is  pleasing  to  the  Lord,  as  it  is  to  his  servants,  the 
Presiding  Authorities  of  the  Church,  that  so  many  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  and  their  friends  have  come  from  far  and  near,  and  assembled 
in  a  General  Conference  of  his  Church,  to  be  fed  upon  the  bread  of  life, 
to  be  renewed  in  their  faith  and  determination  to  serve  the  Lord. 

As  an  Apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  a  special  witness  for 
him  in  the  earth,  I  conscientiously,  humbly,  and  sincerely  testify  that  I 
do  know  that  this  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  as  Latter-day  Saints  is 
the  work  of  God.  I  would  like,  if  I  could,  to  bear  this  witness  to  all  the 
world. 

FRUITS  ARE  EVIDENCE  OF  THE  WORK  OF  THE  LORD 

The  Savior  said  on  one  occasion,  "Beware  of  false  prophets  which 
come  to  you  in  sheep's  clothing,  but  inwardly  they  are  ravening  wolves. 
Ye  shall  know  them  by  their  fruits." 

The  fruits  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  of  those  who  associated 
with  him  in  the  early  days  of  this  Church,  and  of  those  who  have  suc- 
ceeded to  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  from  the  days  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  to  the  present  time,  are  evidences  that  should  be  convincing  and 
conclusive  that  this  work  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  that  those  who  are  at 
its  head  are  divinely  inspired,  for  no  mortal  man,  or  men,  could  have 
accomplished  what  is  being  accomplished  and  has  been  accomplished  in 
this  Church  up  to  the  present  time. 

TESTIMONY  AS  TO  DIVINITY  OF  LATTER-DAY  WORK 

I  do  know  that  the  story  told  by  Joseph  Smith,  that  the  Father  and 
the  Son  appeared  to  him,  is  a  true  statement;  that  the  world's  greatest 
need  was  supplied  by  that  visitation,  for  the  people  of  this  world  are 
in  gross  spiritual  darkness  pertaining  to  the  existence,  the  personality, 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


55 


and  the  power  of  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  and  the  relationship  which  we 
sustain  to  him. 

I  do  know  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Savior  of  the  world,  the  Son  of 
God.  I  think  I  know  it  as  clearly  and  as  fully  as  did  Peter  of  old ;  and 
that  a  belief  in  him  and  the  efficacy  of  his  atoning  blood  is  necessary  to 
a  man's  salvation ;  that  in  this  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  there  are 
all  the  principles,  ordinances,  power  and  authority,  in  connection  with 
the  atonement  of  our  Lord  and  Savior,  to  effect  the  eternal  salvation  and 
exaltation  of  mankind,  by  being  obedient  unto  the  principles  and  ordi- 
nances of  the  Gospel.  And  I  know  that  this  cannot  be  truthfully  said 
of  any  other  organization  in  this  world,  for  this  is  God's  plan,  instituted 
in  the  council  of  heaven  before  the  world  was. 

LEADERS  OF  CHURCH  HAVE  CARRIED  ON  THE  WORK 

The  organizations  of  this  Church,  as  we  find  them  today,  were  not 
in  existence  in  the  days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph.  True,  he  established  the 
Church,  and  the  Lord  through  him  made  provision  for  its  growth  and 
development.  But  it  remained  for  Presidents  Brigham  Young,  John 
Taylor,  Wilford  Woodruff,  Lorenzo  Snow,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  Heber 
J.  Grant,  as  the  Lord's  mouthpieces  unto  this  people,  to  carry  on  this 
work  and  give  direction  thereto,  with  the  assistance  of  those  men  who 
associate  with  them.  And  the  work  has  grown  and  developed,  as  we  are 
the  witnesses ;  and  the  auxiliary  organizations  of  this  Church  have  won 
the  admiration  of  men  and  women  who  have  given  proper  consideration 
to  these  organization  and  their  accomplishments. 

There  was  but  one  auxiliary  organized  in  the  days  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph — that  of  the  Relief  Society  for  our  sisters.  In  the  days  of  Presi- 
dent Brigham  Young  the  Church  school  system  was  inauguarated,  the 
Sunday  Schools  of  the  Church,  the  Young  Men's  and  Young  Ladies' 
Mutual  Improvement  Associations  of  the  Church;  and  under  later  ad- 
ministration— that  of  John  Taylor — came  the  Primary  organization,  in 
itself  a  wonderful  organization,  of  wonderful  accomplishments,  as  in  all 
these  other  organizations.  And  these  are  evidences  that  those  who 
succeeded  Joseph  Smith  as  the  presidents  and  leaders  of  the  Church 
were  inspired  of  God. 

I  bear  testimony  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  true  prophet  of  God, 
and  that  those  who  have  succeeded  him  in  the  presidency  have  been  and 
are  prophets  of  God,  including  our  present  President.  And  under  his 
administration  other  wonderful  organizations  have  been  inaugurated — 
that  of  the  welfare  work  of  this  Church,  the  stake  missionary  work,  added 
stakes  and  wards,  etc.  And  the  work  will  continue,  of  this  I  am  also  as- 
sured. 

And  I  want  to  say  to  this  large  congregation  and  to  the  world,  that 
to  me  the  witnesses  whom  God  our  Father  raised  up  to  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  the  Three  and  the  Eight  witnesses  with  Joseph  Smith,  the  Pro- 
phet, associated  are  witnesses  of  all  these  truths  of  which  I  have  been 
speaking. 

The  Gospel  has  been  revealed  in  its  fulness ;  the  Church  and  king- 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  8  Second  Day 

dom  of  God  established  in  preparation  for  the  coming  of  our  Lord,  the 
ushering  in  of  the  millennial  reign  of  peace  upon  the  earth,  when  Christ 
our  Lord  shall  be  the  King  of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords,  and  all  powers, 
kings,  and  dominions  will  be  subject  unto  him. 

If  we  as  members  of  this  Church  will  just  live  up  to  the  precepts 
the  teachings  and  the  standards  of  this  Church,  the  favor  of  heaven  will 
be  upon  us  in  life,  and  we  will  attain  to  the  blessings  of  eternal  life  and 
exaltation,  and  no  mortal  man  can  comprehend  the  magnitude  and  the 
greatness  of  the  blessings  in  store  for  us. 

At  the  beginning  of  this  conference,  in  the  opening  prayer  offered 
by  President  Marion  Romney  yesterday  morning,  he  told  the  Lord  that 
we  had  assembled  in  General  Conference  to  learn  his  will  concerning  us. 
It  is  one  thing  to  know  the  will  of  the  Lord,  and  another  thing  to  do  the 
will.    The  Lord  has  said : 

He  that  knoweth  the  will  of  the  Lord  and  doeth  it  not  shall  be 
beaten  with  many  stripes. 

Christ's  part  in  the  rebellion  in  heaven 

And  we  read  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  how  that  in  the  contro- 
versy in  heaven,  before  the  world  was,  Christ  our  Lord  stood  upon 
the  platform  of  principles.  "Father,  thy  will  be  done,  and  the  glory  be 
thine  forever."  A  war  was  waged  against  sin  and  rebellion,  and  a  third 
of  heaven's  host  were  cast  out. 

We  have  reason  to  believe  that  we  fought  in  that  battle  with  our 
Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  as  our  captain,  and  with  Michael  and  other 
great  characters,  and  that  we  kept  our  first  estate  through  being  valiant 
in  that  fight.  We  are  here  upon  the  earth  with  a  promise  of  the  Lord 
that  if  we  will  be  likewise  valiant  here  and  keep  this,  our  second,  estate, 
we  shall  have  added  unto  us  glory  and  honor  forever  and  ever.  The 
Savior's  declaration  that  whatsoever  the  Father  desired  of  him,  his  will 
should  be  done,  referred  not  only  to  the  spirit  life,  but  to  the  life  here 
upon  this  earth,  for  when  he  came  here  upon  many  occasions  he  made 
the  declaration  that  he  had  come  to  earth  because  he  had  been  sent  by 
the  Father,  that  he  came  to  do  the  will  of  the  Father,  and  he  did  the  will 
of  the  Father  under  all  circumstances  and  at  all  hazards,  even  to  the 
laying  down  of  his  life,  and  all  that  He  endured  in  life,  in  fulfilment  of 
his  mission. 

And  after  his  resurrection  he  appeared  to  the  people  on  this  Ameri- 
can continent,  and  addressing  them  upon  the  principles  and  plan  of  sal- 
vation, he  made  the  declaration  that  he  had  come  to  the  earth,  having 
been  sent  of  the  Father,  to  do  the  will  of  the  Father. 

Proceeding  further,  he  said,  "What  manner  of  men  ought  ye  to  be?" 
And  answered  it  for  them,  "Verily  I  say  unto  you,  even  as  I  am."  This 
is  found  in  the  27th  chapter  of  Third  Nephi,  in  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

To  me  that  means  that  not  only  those  Nephites,  but  all  the  children 
of  men  are  here  upon  the  earth  because  we  were  sent,  and  we  are  here 
to  learn  what  our  Father's  will  is  concerning  us,  and  to  do  his  will  under 
all  circumstances  and  conditions. 


ELDER  MARVIN  0.  ASHTON 


57 


THE  WORD  OF  WISDOM  GIVEN  AS  THE  WILL  OF  GOD 

He  has  given  us  the  Word  of  Wisdom  as  a  revelation  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  whom  he  raised  up  to  be  the  mighty  prophet  of  this  dis 
pensation,  and  in  that  revelation  he  has  said  that  it  is  his  will  that  w* 
abstain  from  the  use  of  tobacco,  intoxicating  and  strong  drinks,  and 
some  of  our  people  have  taken  the  ground  that  it  is  no  commandment 
of  God,  therefore  they  are  not  under  the  obligation  to  observe  it  as  they 
would  be  had  it  been  a  command. 

I  want  to  call  your  attention  to  what  we  find  in  the  89th  Section 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  where  the  Lord  by  direct  revelation  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said  that  we  are  to  live  by  every  word  that 
proceedeth  forth  from  the  mouth  of  God.  And  that  is  given  as  a  com- 
mandment ;  the  Word  of  Wisdom  did  proceed  from  the  mouth  of  God 
to  us  as  a  people,  and  as  the  will  of  the  Lord,  and  therefore  we  are  under 
command  to  observe  it. 

Some  of  our  people  quibble  over  the  matter  of  tea  and  coffee,  and 
say  there  is  no  mention  of  tea  and  coffee  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  I 
want  to  say  to  you  that  from  the  beginning  of  this  Church,  in  the  days 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  down  to  the  present  time,  the  leaders  of  this 
Church  have  interpreted  that  Word  of  Wisdom  to  include  tea  and  coffee 
and  all  drinks  that  are  habit-forming  because  of  the  caffeine  and  drugs 
they  contain.  We,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  who  by  our  uplifted  hands 
sustain  the  prophet  in  our  day  and  time,  President  Grant,  are  under 
obligation  to  accept  the  interpretations  that  are  made  by  him  and  by  his 
predecessors  with  respect  to  this  matter,  that  the  Word  of  Wisdom  that 
has  come  to  us  from  the  Lord  includes  tea  and  coffee  among-  those  things 
which  we  should  not  partake  of.  This  is  the  will  of  the  Lord. 

Brethren  and  Sisters,  may  God  help  us  to  live  by  the  word  and  will 
which  he  has  expressed  in  various  revelations,  then  will  we  be  happy, 
and  we  will  be  saved  and  exalted,  and  what  more  can  the  Lord  say,  what 
more  can  he  offer  us  as  inducement. 

God  bless  us,  brethren  and  sisters,  and  help  us  to  be  faithful  I  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  MARVIN  O.  ASHTON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  do  not  think  I  feel  as  calm  as  a  summer's  morning  as  I  occupy 
this  position.  If  humility  were  the  only  requisite  at  this  particular  moment, 
I  would  not  be  worried  at  all  about  what  I  was  going  to  say.  The  fact 
of  the  matter  is  that  when  I  thought  of  this  responsibility  I  mentioned 
to  President  McKay  that  I  thought  there  were  certain  meeting  houses 
that  should  be  examined  and  that  it  was  very  important  that  the  inves- 
tigations, be  made  the  latter  part  of  this  week.  He  reminded  me  of  what 
took  place  with  Jonah  when  he  disobeyed  and  failed  to  be  in  the  proper 
place. 

I  want  to  repeat  in  part  what  has  been  said  by  Bishop  Richards, 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  8  Second  £>ay 

and  that  is,  that  I  have  appreciated  very  much  the  last  few  weeks  of 
visiting  the  different  stakes,  in  a  regional  capacity,  if  you  please,  through- 
out the  Church.  And  lest  I  forget,  I  want  to  express  my  deep  apprecia- 
tion for  the  kindness  which  has  been  bestowed  upon  us  brethren  who 
have  been  visiting  in  the  Bishopric  capacity.  I  want  to  say  further,  I 
have  appreciated  very  much  the  faith  of  these  people.  By  your  outward 
expressions  I  know  what  you  want  to  think  of  us,  and  the  courtesies 
given;  but  I  want  to  emphatically  say  to  you  that  we  appreciate  your 
kindness.  Your  faith  and  your  integrity  builds  us  up.  I  am  not  for- 
getting, by  any  means,  the  good  sound  judgment  of  you  men  who  are 
leaders  in  the  stakes  of  this  Church.  And  I  do  not  want  to  forget  for 
one  minute  the  kindness  of  the  wives  of  these  men,  who  open  their 
homes,  let  their  other  work  go  while  we  are  entertained. 

I  believe  that  sometimes  to  test  anything  you  must  have  something 
happen  of  an  unusual  character.  Now  I  think  that  peculiar  thing  has 
happened  to  the  Church  so  far  as  this  welfare  work  is  concerned.  I  think 
that  this  thing  coming  upon  us  has  been  the  means  of  testing  us. 

One  man  wrote  this  little  story :  A  certain  king  years  ago  stretched 
some  wires  over  his  castle,  and  the  only  time  that  the  tunes  would  play 
and  the  chimes  sound  on  those  wires  was  in  times  of  storm.  I  believe 
that  we  play  the  best  tunes  individually  and  collectively  when  the  storms 
come.  This  storm  has  not  been  as  severe  as  it  might  have  been,  or  maybe 
as  severe  as  we  may  face  later,  but  it  has  been  a  test  to  us.  I  wonder 
sometimes — and  I  am  not  forgetting  the  fine  work  that  has  been  done 
by  the  bishops  and  by  the  presidents  of  stakes,  and  people  of  the  wards, 
and  I  am  not  forgetting  by  any  means,  last  but  not  least,  the  Relief 
Society  and  what  valiant  people  they  have  been  in  this  work,— but  I  have 
noticed  this,  that  some  of  our  people  have  not  taken  this  thing  as  seriously 
as  they  might.   They  simply  have  not  functioned. 

When  we  were  going  up  to  Canada  we  noticed  on  the  road  that  a 
certain  washout  had  hit  a  mountain  side,  and  there  was,  hanging  from 
the  air,  a  telegraph  pole  suspended  by  the  wires  of  the  system.  I  said 
to  Bishop  Richards,  pointing  to  the  pole  hanging  up  there :  "I  wonder 
if  some  of  us  are  not  just  like  that  pole,  instead  of  sustaining  we  are 
being  suspended."   I  have  thought  of  that  many  times  since. 

I  am  afraid  sometimes  we  get  in  ruts  and  some  of  us  who  have 
been  the  most  valiant  sometimes  are  most  susceptible  to  ruts.  Some  one 
has  said  the  only  difference  between  a  rut  and  a  grave  is  that  one  is  a 
little  deeper  than  the  other.  Now  I  say  this  respectfully,  but  sometimes 
men  who  have  won  their  spurs,  who  have  cut  their  furrows,  rest  while 
the  world  goes  on.  The  Church  is  of  such  a  nature  and  such  magnitude 
that  whether  you  do  your  duty  or  not,  it  pretty  near  sustains  you.  And 
you  stay  there,  and  you  just  hang  on  by  virtue  of  the  tremendous  system 
that  is  over  your  head. 

Now  I  believe  this :  We  play  our  best  tunes  when  the  storms  rage, 
but  we  ought  to  be  vary  careful  that  the  storms  do  not  get  under  us  and 
lift  us  up  so  that  we  hang  there.  I  believe  that  some  men  get  it  into 
their  heads  that  they  ought  to  be  original,  and  they  can  not  be  original 


ELDER  MARVIN  0.  ASHTON 


59 


unless  they  stand  off  and  criticise.  It  reminds  me  of  a  story  that  I 
learned  in  Scotland  of  a  man  speaking  on  the  street  to  some  people.  He 
said :  "The  only  trouble  with  you  is  that  you  are  like  the  fellow  who  is 
running  a  relay  several  times  around  the  race  track.  You  actually  get 
so  far  behind  at  times  that  you  think  you  are  ahead." 

You  often  hear  the  expression,  especially  by  the  Genealogical 
Society  people — and  by  the  way,  I  saw  this  particular  phase  dramatized, 
and  it  impressed  me  very  much — you  hear  them  speak  of  people  as  being 
in  prison,  and  the  doors  will  not  be  unlocked  if  someone  fails  to  do  his 
duty.  I  wonder  sometimes  if  there  are  not  thousands  and  thousands 
of  living  people  here  on  the  earth  who  are  locked  up  and  cannot  get 
through  because  somebody  lacks  leadership.  It  is  the  saddest  thing  in 
our  Church  sometimes  to  go  to  a  ward  or  stake  and  find  a  lack  of  lead- 
ership. People  are  behind  the  bars,  trying  to  get  through, — and  I  am 
not  forgetting  our  young  people  at  all — and  because  of  lack  of  leader- 
ship they  simply  do  not  get  through. 

Now,  as  far  as  I  am  concerned,  somebody  has  something  to  answer 
for  in  leadership.  I  do  not  care  if  a  man  has  won  his  spurs  or  who  he 
is,  if  he  is  dead  on  his  feet,  it  is  just  a  sad  situation.  Sometimes  you  can 
go  to  a  ward  or  a  stake  and  just  as  soon  as  you  step  over  the  threshhold 
you  can  feel  that  death,  or  slumber,  or  something  of  that  nature,  stalks 
thereabouts,  because  they  are  standing  on  a  reputation,  and  fail  to  func- 
tion as  they  should.  No  truer  philosophy  is  in  the  scriptures  than  that 
you  cannot  put  new  wine  into  old  bottles. 

One  of  the  most  notable  things  in  our  Church  as  I  see  it — -it  has 
been  mentioned  many  times  before — is  the  dilapidated  condition  of  our 
buildings,  not  forgetting  our  meeting  houses  and  not  forgetting  our 
homes.  It  is  a  sad  situation.  We  sometimes  speak  of  the  "outward 
signs  of  an  inward  grace."  Now,  if  our  homes  are  the  outward  sign  of 
an  inward  grace,  we  are  in  awfully  sad  shape,  it  seems  to  me.  Now,  I 
am  not  losing  sight  of  the  people  who  are  struggling  to  keep  out  of  debt, 
and  building  a  shanty  temporarily  to  bridge  over.  I  think  we  ought  to 
respect  them ;  I  take  my  hat  off  to  that  kind  of  people.  But  I  am  not 
taking  my  hat  off  to  the  people  who  through  laziness  and  indolence 
live  in  a  shabby,  barn-like  abode  until  "kingdom  come."  We  must 
not  be  too  severe,  but  people  who  come  into  our  midst  notice  these 
things,  and  we  are  judged  accordingly.  I  am  not  overlooking  the  item 
of  charity  and  kindness  to  others  who  are  making  a  struggle.  It  seems 
to  me  the  biggest  thing  in  our  lives  is  charity.  "Though  you  give  your 
body  to  be  burned,  if  you  have  not  charity,  it  availeth  you  nothing." 

I  want  to  say  here  that  I  hope  in  this  system  of  welfare  work  where 
it  is  our  purpose  to  organize  ourselves,  rather  intensely,  a  little  pocket 
for  this  situation,  a  little  "pigeon  hole"  for  that  circumstance,  that  in  all 
this  setting  up  of  a  system  we  do  not  forget  honest-to-gaodness 
charity  and  kindness  to  one  another.  That  man  is  still  taking  a  trip  from 
Jerusalem  to  Jericho.  That  man  may  be  sitting  next  to  you  right  now. 
He  may  pass  you  as  you  go  out.  You  may  meet  him  on  the  street,  but 
he  is  still  here.   We  need  charity  in  our  souls.  He  is  begging  for  a  tear 


60  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  8  Second  Dag 

of  sympathy  and  a  kind  expression  from  you — not  altogether  your 
money,  but  the  milk  of  human  kindness.  Some  people  who  build  up 
nice  bank  accounts  and  shake  hands  with  themselves  for  the  wonderful 
position  they  are  in  financially ;  the  ray  of  charity  sometimes  fails  to  get 
through  for  them.  I  wonder  sometimes  (to  play  on  someone's  expres- 
sion) if  that  same  fellow  who  always  wants  the  spiritual  blessings  to 
come  to  the  other  fellow,  how  he  would  appreciate  it  if,  when  he  got 
around  the  table  Thanksgiving  Day,  he  would  have  a  spiritual  turkey, 
that  was  "without  body,  parts,  or  passions." 

Some  of  us  are  just  naturally — as  one  man  puts  it — "tight."  Our 
pores  are  closed,  and  we  do  not  let  charity  break  through. 

I  must  not  say  very  much  more.  But  I  do  want  to  say  this  in  closing. 
Across  the  street  from  here  to  the  east  some  of  those  men  who  are 
sweeping  up  the  leaves  in  these  paths  are  executives.  I  have  yet  to  be 
convinced  that  all  the  virtues  are  inside  of  a  white  collar.  Just  as  often 
they  are  in  a  flannel  shirt  as  they  are  in  a  white  shirt.  Sometimes  a 
man  who  has  been  a  clerk  or  an  executive  will  come  on  his  hands  and 
knees  and  beg  for  a  job  at  three  or  four  dollars  a  day.  He  may  bring 
his  little  kit  of  clothes  in  a  satchel  lest  he  meet  some  of  his  friends  in 
his  overalls.  He  will  go  through  this  humiliation  and  live  on  bread  and 
water  to  keep  a  boy  or  girl  on  a  mission.  This  is  something  some  of 
us  do  not  dream  about,  and  we  forget  all  about  the  man's  sacrifice. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  keep  charitable  and  kind,  to  be  on  our 
toes,  and  as  someone  has  expressed  the  "eleventh  commandment," — '"If 
there  is  anything  going  on,  be  thou  in  it."  May  the  Lord  bless  us.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

If  there  is  anything  that  I  am  grateful  for  it  is  for  my  standing  in 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  that  I  have  fellowship 
with  the  Saints  of  God,  that  I  have  part  in  this  glorious  work  which  the 
Lord  has  established  for  the  salvation  of  mankind.  I  am  always  con- 
scious of  the  fact  that  the  Lord  is  carrying  on  a  great  work,  that  he  has 
stretched  forth  his  hand  to  perform  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder, 
and  that  we  are  among  his  chosen  people,  the  chosen  people  of  God. 

I  rejoice  in  this  fact.  The  people  who  have  embraced  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  who  have  been  members  of  his  Church  in  the  various 
dispensations  of  the  past  have  always  been  designated  "his  covenant 
people."  Why  should  we  be  called  a  "covenant  people?"  For  this  reason : 
That  we  have  entered  into  covenant  with  God,  in  the  new  and  everlast- 
ing covenant. 

The  everlasting  covenant  has  been  so  frequently  referred  to  in  the 
scriptures  that  I  marvel  that  people  do  not  interest  themselves  suffi- 
ciently to  find  out  just  what  that  covenant  is.  Have  we  made  a  covenant 
with  the  Lord  ?  Has  he  made  a  covenant  with  us  ?  What  is  a  covenant  ? 
If  we  will  examine  our  dictionaries  we  will  find  that  a  covenant  is  "an 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


61 


agreement  entered  into  between  two  or  more  persons  or  parties."  When 
we  enter  into  a  covenant  with  our  fellow  men,  we  draw  up  an  instru- 
ment setting  forth  the  obligations  and  promises  of  the  contracting  parties 
to  the  covenant.  We  sign  it  in  our  own  handwriting,  and  seal  it  in  the 
presence  of  witnesses,  and  then  go  before  a  notary  public  or  a  justice  of 
the  peace  and  make  oath  to  the  same. 

If  so  much  formality  is  deemed  necessary  in  the  ordinary  affairs  of 
life  which  men  make  with  their  fellow  men,  what  must  we  think  of  a 
covenant  where  God  himself  is  the  party  of  the  first  part  ? 

When  we  enter  into  a  covenant  with  the  Lord  will  it  be  any  less 
formal  or  binding  on  the  parties  to  the  covenant?  The  Lord  has  made 
just  such  a  covenant  with  his  children ;  but  does  he  sign  it  with  pen  and 
.ink,  or  do  we  subscribe  it  in  our  own  hand-writing?  No!  indeed!  The 
Lord  has  a  much  better  and  more  impressive  way  for  us  to  enter  into 
covenant  with  Him.  Baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins  is 
the  formality  of  entering  into  the  covenant.  We  do  not  need  to  sign  it 
with  pen  and  ink.  We  do  not  need  to  go  before  a  notary  public  or  a 
justice  of  the  peace.  But  when  we  enter  into  the  waters  of  baptism,  we 
go  in  company  with  a  servant  of  the  Lord  who  has  been  commissioned 
of  Jesus  Christ  to  perform  that  sacred  ordinance.  In  performing  this 
ceremony  the  duly  authorized  servant  of  God  will  take  the  candidate's 
hands  into  his  left  hand,  and  raise  his  right  hand  to  the  square,  saying 
this: 

Having  been  commissioned  of  Jesus  Christ  I  baptize  you  in  the 
name  of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Amen. 

He  then  immerses  the  convert  in  the  water  in  the  likeness  of  the 
burial  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  who  died  upon  the  Cross,  and  then  raises 
him  up  out  of  this  watery  grave  in  the  likeness  of  His  glorious  resurrec- 
tion.  What  could  be  more  impressive  than  this  ? 

This  is  the  formality  of  entering  into  the  covenant  with  God.  And 
those  who  do  thus  enter  into  that  covenant  do  so  with  a  full  understand- 
ing that  they  are  to  keep  his  holy  commandments,  that  they  are  to  walk 
in  the  light,  that  they  are  to  "do  all  things  whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God 
shall  command  them."  Brother  George  F.  Richards  in  his  conference 
talk  referred  to  a  certain  event  that  took  place  in  the  heavens  before  the 
world  was  made.  It  was  here,  in  Heaven,  that  the  covenant  was  first 
made.  This  is  undoubtedly  the  circumstance  to  which  the  Lord  referred 
when  he  asked  his  servant  Job :  "Where  wast  thou  when  I  laid  the  foun- 
dations of  the  earth?  Declare  if  thou  hast  understanding  When 

the  morning  stars  sang  together  and  all  the  sons  of  God  shouted  for  joy." 
(Job  38:4-7.) 

This  event  was  made  known  unto  Abraham  in  a  glorious  revelation 
which  I  find  recorded  in  the  Book  of  Abraham — Let  me  quote : 

Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto  me,  Abraham,  the  intelligences  that 
were  organized  before  the  world  was ;  and  among  all  these  there  were  many 
of  the  noble  and  great  ones ; 

And  God  saw  these  souls  that  they  were  good,  and  he  stood  in  the  midst 
of  them,  and  he  said:  These  I  will  make  my  rulers-;  for  he  stood  among 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  8  Second  Day 

those  that  were  spirits,  and  he  saw  that  they  were  good ;  and  he  said  unto 
me:  Abraham,  thou  art  one  of  them;  thou  wast  chosen  before  thou  wast 
born. 

And  there  stood  one  among  them  that  was  like  unto  God,  and  he  said 
unto  those  who  were  with  him :  We  will  go  down,  for  there  is  space  there, 
and  we  will  take  of  these  materials,  and  we  will  make  an  earth  whereon 
these  may  dwell; 

And  we  will  prove  them  herewith,  to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things 
whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God  shall  command  them; 

And  they  who  keep  their  first  estate  shall  be  added  upon;  and  they 
who  keep  not  their  first  estate  shall  not  have  glory  in  the  same  kingdom 
with  those  who  keep  their  first  estate ;  and  they  who  keep  their  second  estate 
shall  have  glory  added  upon  their  heads  for  ever  and  ever.   ( Abr.  3 :22-36.) 

In  these  paragraphs  the  terms,  and  obligations  required  of  us  as 
the  children  of  God,  and  the  glorious  promises  or  agreement  which  the 
Lord  makes  if  we  will  only  do  our  part  are  clearly  stated.  This  covenant 
relates  to  both  estates.  We  who  now  live  upon  the  earth,  or  ever  have 
lived  upon  it,  or  ever  will  live  upon  it  in  bodies  of  flesh  and  bone  have 
kept  our  first  estate  in  heaven  before  our  coming  to  live  upon  the  earth, 
and  hence  we  have  been  added  upon,  or  in  other  words  there  have  been 
or  will  be  added  to  our  immortal  spirits  these  bodies  of  flesh  and  bone, 
and  although  we  shall  all  surely  die  we  shall  all  be  made  alive  again,  and 
thus  the  Lord  fulfills  his  agreement  to  all  who  keep  their  first  estate. 
God  keeps  his  covenant. 

What  concerns  us  now,  however,  relates  to  our  present  or  mortal 
life,  our  second  estate,  wherein  we  are  to  be  proven  the  second  time,  and 
if  we  enter  into  this  covenant  or  agreement  with  the  Lord  through  the 
holy  waters  of  baptisms  and  keep  it  inviolate,  then  the  Lord  is  bound 
under  the  terms  of  the  covenant  to  add  glory  upon  our  heads  for  ever 
and  ever.  This  means  a  never  ending  glory  in  the  Celestial  Kingdom— 
the  power  of  eternal  increase — to  become  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God, 
and  heirs  of  God,  even  joint  heirs  with  Jesus  Christ,  and  with  him  to 
inherit  all  things  that  the  Father  hath. 

In  this  revelation  we  see  just  why  the  children  of  Abraham  are 
known  as  the  chosen  people  of  God,  for  Abraham  was  one  of  the  great 
and  noble  ones  among  God's  spirit  children — one  of  the  Morning  Stars 
that  sang  together  and  was  chosen  before  he  was  born. 

The  carrying  out  of'  this  Covenant  involved  the  creation  of  this 
planet  and  the  sending  of  someone  with  almighty  power  to  create  the 
earth  and  establish  the  covenant  with  the  children .  of  men  in  all  the 
various  dispensations  of  this  world's  career.   And  the  Lord  said : 

"Who  shall  I  send?" 

"And  one  answered  like  unto  the  Son  of  Man,  Here  am  I.  Send 

me." 

And  He  also  said :  "Father,  thy  will  be  done  and  the  glory  be  thine 
forever." 

This  was  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ,  the  First  Born  in  the 
spirit. 

And  another  one  arose,  a  mighty  spirit,  but  an  evil  one,  and  he  said : 
"Here  am  I.    Send  me.   I  will  be  thy  son,  and  I  will  redeem  all  man- 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN 


63 


kind,  that  one  soul  shall  not  be  lost.  And  surely  I  will  do  it.  Therefore 
give  me  thine  honor."  This  was  Lucifer,  or  Satan,  or  the  Devil,  as  he  is 
severally,  known.  * 

He  proposed  to  abolish  the  free  agency  of  man.  He  proposed  to 
save  every  soul,  no  matter  what  they  might  do.  And  he  arrogated  unto 
himself  the  honor  which  belongs  to  God  alone.  And  when  God  said : 
"I  will  send  the  first,"  Satan  became  angry  and  rebelled  against  God  and 
many  followed  after  him,  even  one-third  of  the  hosts  of  heaven. 

Here,  then,  is  a  very  comprehensive  and  satisfying  explanation  of 
the  everlasting  covenant — first  made  in  heaven  before  the  world  was 
made  and  then  established  on  the  earth  in  each  dispensation  of  God's 
providence  beginning  with  Adam  after  his  expulsion  from  the  Garden 
of  Eden. 

The  two  parts  in  this  everlasting  covenant  are  made  so  plain  that 
"the  wayfaring  men  though  fools  shall  not  err  therein."    (Isa.  35 :8.) 
Namely : 

First:  Our  part  is  to  do  all  things  whatsoever  the  Lord,  our  God, 
shall  command  us.  In  other  words,  keep  his  commandments.  This  we 
can  do  and  the  Lord  expects  us  to  do  it. 

Second :  The  Lord's  part  is  to  add  glory  upon  our  heads  forever 
and  ever  if  we  do  our  part. 

In  other  words,  it  means  salvation.  We  cannot  save  ourselves. 
All  this  is  the  Lord's  part  in  the  everlasting  covenant. 

It  will  therefore  be  seen  that  our  souls  must  needs  be  sanctified  from 
all  unrighteousness  that  they  "may  be  prepared  for  Celestial  glory." 
(D.  &  C.  88 :18.)  Obedience  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  provides  the 
necessary  preparation  and  if  we  render  this  obedience  by  "doing  all 
things  whatsoever  the  Lord  our  God  commands  then  he  is  bound  under 
the  terms  of  the  everlasting  covenant"  to  save  us  and  bring  us  back  to 
God.  All  this,  of  course,  we  are  utterly  unable  to  do.  All  we  can  do 
about  it  is  to  prepare  ourselves  to  receive  it.   Hence  we  need  a  Savior. 

Salvation  in  the  presence  of  God  comes  to  persons  as  a  gift  of  God 
to  those  who  keep  their  second  estate.  May  the  Lord  help  us,  then,  to 
be  faithful  in  our  second  estate  by  keeping  his  commandments,  by  walk- 
ing in  the  light,  and  by  so  living  that  we  may  call  down  his  blessings  upon 
our  heads,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 


The  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "The  Lord's  Prayer." 

ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

THE  ARTICLES  OF  FAITH 

Ninety-six  years  ago,  the  editor  of  a  Chicago  paper  asked  the  Pro- 
phet Joseph  Smith  for  a  brief  sketch  of  the  history  and  beliefs  of  the 
Church  he  had  founded.  The  Prophet  complied.  His  statement  of 
beliefs  he  compressed  into  thirteen  one-sentence  paragraphs,  except  for 


64  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  8  Second  Dtg 

the  tenth  which  contained  three  sentences  and  the  thirteenth  which  com- 
prised two.  These  succinct  paragraphs  have  since  come  severally  to  be 
called  articles  and  collectively  they  are  known  as  the  Articles  jof  Faith. 
From  the  thirteenth  Article  I  take  as  my  text  this  declaration :  "We  be- 
lieve in  being  honest." 

HONESTY  A  REQUIREMENT 

It  will  at  once  be  said  that  there  is  nothing  distinctive  about  that. 
Everybody  believes  in  being  honest.  But  by  the  very  implication  of  this 
profession  of  belief  we  are  required  to  be  honest,  and  so  is  everyone 
else  who  makes  a  like  profession,  for  a  profession  of  belief  which  does 
not  manifest  itself  in  terms  of  actual  performance  is  of  negligible  if  any 
value. 

It  was  Jesus  who  likened  the  man  who  heard  his  sayings  and  did 
them  to  a  wise  man  who  built  his  house  upon  a  rock  and  because  thereof 
it  withstood  rain  and  flood  and  tempest. 

BUSINESS  MEN'S  OPINION 

I  am  influenced  in  my  selection  of  the  text  by  the  report  that  a 
prominent  minister  in  an  eastern  city  had  submitted  to  twenty  large 
employers  of  men  this  question :  "What  is  the  greatest  need  of  the  busi- 
ness world  today?"  Each  of  the  twenty  gave  the  same  answer:  "Personal 
honesty."  If  these  men  were  right  in  their  conclusion  (and  their  sur- 
prising unanimity  weighs  heavily  in  favor  of  the  correctness  of  their 
opinion)  then  personal  conduct  lags  lamentably  far  behind  profession, 
if  we  assume  that  substantially  everyone  as  a  matter  of  profession  be- 
lieves in  being  honest. 

From  the  nature  of  the  discussion  consequent  upon  receipt  of  their 
answers, ,  I  assume  that  the  business  men  whose  opinions  were  asked 
were  thinking  of  honesty  in  terms  of  the  eighth  commandment.  As  used 
in  our  text,  the  word  comprehends  far  more  than  that.  To  restrain 
one's  self  from  taking  property  which  belongs  to  another  is  only  to  evi- 
dence the  quality  of  honesty  in  one  of  its  most  rudimentary  stages.  I 
should  like  to  persuade  you  that  honesty  is  as  all-inclusive  of  the  virtues 
as  the  Golden  Rule,  or  as  the  commandment  to  love  your  neighbor  as 
yourself,  upon  which  commandment,  together  with  the  love  of  God, 
Jesus  said,  the  whole  law  hangs. 

But  let  us  for  the  moment  consider  our  text  in  terms  of  the  com- 
mandment, "Thou  shalt  not  steal." 

COVETOUSNESS  THE  CAUSE  OF  DISHONESTY 

Why  does  one  steal  ?  Obviously  to  get  what  one  desires  and  might 
otherwise  have  to  do  without.  Stealing  has  its  inception  in  covetousness 
which  is  altogether  an  unlovely  trait.  If  men  did  not  covet  they  would 
not  steal.  If  there  were  no  violation  of  the  tenth  commandment,  there 
would  be  no  violation  of  the  eighth  commandment. 

The  gratification  of  the  covetous  impulse  betokens  such  lack  of  self- 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 


65 


control  and  such  weakness  of  will  as  renders  the  unbidden  appropriator 
of  other  men's  goods  incapable  of  denying  the  demands  of  his  own  desire. 

The  impulse  to  gratify  personal  desire  is  yielded  to  without  any  re- 
gard to  the  consequence  to  the  one  whose  property  is  appropriated,  who 
may  be  either  greatly  inconvenienced  or  forced  to  the  abandonment  of  a 
projected  endeavor,  or  even  exposed  to  downright  suffering  and  distress. 
The  thief  is  indifferent  to  the  suffering  of  others. 

Altogether  he  presents  a  sorry  sample  of  qualities.  He  is  covetous, 
lacking  in  self-control,  indifferent,  cruel.  These  are  deep-seated  flaws 
in  character  of  which  stealing  is  but  one  manifestation.  For  after  all, 
basically  honesty  is  a  matter  of  character.  Honesty  and  the  highest 
ideals  of  manhood  are  bound  up  inseparably  together. 

But  harmful  as  thieving  may  be  to  the  victim,  it  is  vastly  more  de- 
vastating to  the  perpetrator  of  the  theft. 

He  robs  himself  of  his  own  self-respect,  which  is  one  of  the  most 
nearly  irreparable  losses  anyone  may  sustain.  A  man  may  lose  the 
esteem  of  his  fellows  and  survive  the  loss  if  supported  by  the  conscious- 
ness of  his  own  rectitude.  It  is  not  so  important  what  others  think  of 
him  but  what  he  knows  about  himself  is  of  transcendent  importance. 

He  practices  of  necessity  the  art  of  deceit  and  becomes  in  conse- 
quence devious  in  his  ways.  His  mental  processes  are  sinuous.  He  does 
not  trust  and  is  not  trusted. 

Even  though  he  has  not  been  found  out  and  moves  freely  in  society, 
he  knows  himself  to  be  something  other  than  what  people  take  him  to  be. 
To  that  extent  he  knows  that  he  is  an  imposter  and  a  fraud,  which 
destroys  his  self-reliance  and  makes  him  uncertain,  vacillating  and  in- 
capable of  realizing  the  fullness  of  his  talents. 

CONSEQUENCES  OF  DISHONESTY 

Dread  of  discovery  and  exposure  fills  his  soul  with  fear,  which  is 
one  of  the  greatest  enemies  of  man.  It  breaks  his  courage,  it  weakens 
and  wears  away  his  power  to  launch  into  bold  and  lofty  endeavor.  It 
circumscribes  and  limits  the  field  of  his  vision  and  is  a  barrier  to  his 
pushing  out  to  new  horizons.  It  conjures  up  for  him  torments.  It 
haunts  his  waking  hours  and  visits  his  sleepless  pillow  in  the  darkness 
of  the  night. 

KEEPING  OF  COMMANDMENTS  BRINGS  PEACE 

Observance  of  the  eighth  commandment,  on  the  other  hand,  never 
brings  remorse.  Instead  of  begetting  fear  it  inspires  confidence  and 
courage.  It  preserves  self-respect,  encourages  forthrightness  and  dis- 
counts deceit.  It  does  not  weaken  the  will.  It  causes  no  injury  or  suffer- 
ing to  another.  It  provides  an  armor  against  covetousness,  fosters  kind- 
ness jand  is  not  cruel.  Like  all  God's  commandments  it  takes  cognizance 
of  the  conditions  necessary  to  a  man's  peace  and  happiness  and  ad- 
monishes him  in  the  way  of  life  that  brings  their  realization. 

When  Moses  heard  the  voice  of  God  declaring  out  of  the  clouds 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  8  Second  Day 

on  Sinai,  "Thou  shalt  not  steal,"  he  was  listening  not  only  to  the  promul- 
gation of  a  law  fundamentally  important  to  the  progress  and  stability 
of  the  individual,  but  he  was  hearing  at  the  same  time  words  of  great 
social  wisdom.  Honesty  lies  at  the  very  root  of  any  stable  society.  If 
all  were  thieves,  no  society  could  exist.  If  a  man  should  arise  in  the 
morning  with  the  purpose  of  plowing  his  field,  his  plan  would  be  defeated 
if  he  went  out  only  to  find  that  someone  else  had  appropriated  his  team 
and  his  plow.  Should  he  then  decide  to  cut  his  hay  instead,  he  again 
would  be  thwarted  if  someone  had  taken  away  his  harvesting  equipment. 
And  so  alternate  plans  might  one  after  another  go  awry  and  his  day  be 
rendered  barren  of  results.  As  the  number  of  members  in  the  society 
increased  the  confusion  would  multiply.  Orderly  processes  would  be 
impossible.  There  would  be  no  security  and  no  dependable  means  of 
planning  action. 

A  society  can  endure  only  if  the  great  majority  of  people  in  it  do 
not  steal. 

But  men  were  intended  to  live  together.  It  is  only  in  relationship  to 
his  fellows  that  man  grows  and  develops.  The  very  existence  of  the 
Church  itself,  its  teachings,  its  hope  and  its  promise  assume  the  existence 
of  that  relationship  and  the  living  of  life  under  its  conditions.  If  there 
were  but  a  solitary,  single  inhabitant  on  the  earth,  there  would  be  no 
need  for  the  eighth  commandment  nor  for  any  of  the  others.  He  would 
know  nothing  of  the  virtue  of  honesty,  just  as  he  would  know  nothing 
of  moral  courage,  honor,  fidelity,  loyalty,  love,  for  these  derive  their 
whole  meaning  and  significance  out  of  the  interrelations  of  men.  These 
are  the  qualities  which  elevate  a  man  and  impart  to  him  the  estate  of 
goodness. 

Honesty  demands  fidelity  to  promises. 

CIVILIZATION  BASED  ON  HONESTY 

It  has  been  said  that  on  that  day  when  someone  at  some  inconven- 
ience to  himself,  determined  to  keep  a  promise,  which  he  was  not  com- 
pelled to  keep,  civilization  was  born.  The  statement  of  course  is  in- 
tended to  make  clear  that  the  relationships  inherent  in  civilization  could 
not  exist  nor  civilization  itself  endure  if  people  as  a  general  rule  did  not 
keep  their  promises.  Certainly  the  business  world  would  collapse  at 
once  if  this  practice  fell  into  decay.  Almost  all  the  vast  and  complicated 
intricacies  of  trade  and  exchange  are  carried  on  on  the  basis  of  promises. 

You  plant  your  sugar  beets  because  the  processor  has  promised  to 
buy  them.  You  put  your  eggs  in  a  car  destined  for  New  York  because 
the  railroad  company  has  promised  to  deliver  them  there.  The  grocery- 
man  delivers  the  food  you  eat  for  dinner  because  you  promise  you  will 
pay  for  it.  Lights  are  installed  in  your  home  and  permitted  to  serve  you 
because  you  promise  that  you  will  pay  the  service  charge.  You  promise 
to  pay  the  service  charge  because  you  are  working  for  someone  who  has 
promised  to  pay  you  for  your  labor.  You  live  in  the  landlord's  house 
and  he  buys  the  coal  to  heat  it  and  the  food  he  eats  and  the  clothes  he 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 


67 


wears  because  you  have  promised  to  pay  the  rent,  which  he  in  turn  has 
promised  to  pay  to  the  coal  dealer  and  the  clothier  and  the  grocer. 

If  there  were  a  wholesale  repudiation  of  promises,  the  first  man 
disappointed  would  be  compelled  to  disappoint  those  to  whom  he  had 
given  his  word.  And  so  it  would  go  round  the  circle.  There  would  be  a 
total  collapse.  Our  organized  lives  could  not  go  on.  So  important  is  it 
that  promises  be  kept  that  the  f  ramers  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States  wrote  into  it  a  provision  that  no  state  could  pass  a  law  relieving 
people  from  their  obligation  to  keep  them.  While  the  law  is  .here  to 
enforce  fulfillment  against  the  unwilling,  it  is  powerless  to  do  anything 
but  take  away  from  the  one  who  has  violated  his  promise  enough  prop- 
erty to  discharge  his  obligation.  If  he  has  no  property,  the  law  can  do 
nothing,  and  so  we  have  a  whole  host  of  petty  little  devices  and  intrigues 
conjured  up  to  circumvent  the  law.  The  only  security  lies  in  individual, 
personal  honesty.    The  law  cannot  make  people  honest. 

Men  sometimes  excuse  their  failure  to  pay  debts  upon  the  pretext 
that  the  creditor  is  a  rich  and  strong  institution  and  is  perfectly  well  able 
to  bear  the  loss.  Frequently  it  is  not  the  rich  nor  the  strong  who  bear 
the  loss  but  the  widow  and  the  orphan  whose  patrimony  has  been  in- 
vested in  these  institutions. 

But  whether  the  creditor  can  afford  to  sustain  the  loss  or  not  is 
quite  beside  the  point.  The  debtor,  for  the  effect  upon  himself,  for  the 
sake  of  the  honor  of  his  name  and  his  own  self-esteem  cannot  afford  to 
refuse  payment  of  his  debt  so  long  as  he  has  anything  left  to  apply  to  the 
purpose. 

Back  in  the  dim  recesses  of  my  earliest  childhood  memory  there  is 
lodged  the  code  that  a  Mormon's  word  must  be  as  good  as  his  bond. 
Debts  simply  had  to  be  paid.  That  made  us  extremely  careful  about 
contracting  them. 

Incurring  obligations  beyond  a  reasonable  expectancy  of  the  ability 
to  meet  them  is  a  fruitful  source  of  ultimate  dishonesty.  Men  who  would 
scorn  to  steal  and  who  would  be  highly  incensed  at  the  suggestion  of 
thievery,  nevertheless  do  not  hesitate  to  make  engagements  which  they 
have  no  chance  of  meeting.  When  the  day  of  reckoning  comes  they  will 
covertly  put  their  property  out  of  reach  and  otherwise  preserve  what  they 
have  to  the  deprivation  of  those  to  whom  they  have  given  their  word. 
It  puts  a  heavy  strain  upon  character  to  see  the  accumulations  of  years 
of  toil  appropriated  to  the  payment  of  debts  incurred.  One  sees  charac- 
ter crack  under  the  strain. 

Buying  on  credit  with  no  reasonable  prospect  of  payment  resembles 
taking  outright  what  belongs  to  another  in  that  both  come  about  through 
uncontrolled  desire  to  possess.  The  same  kind  of  resistance  is  necessary 
in  each  case  if  desire  is  to  be  denied.  The  time  to  avoid  the  unpleasant 
consequence  is  before  incurring  the  obligation.  There  is  character-build- 
ing strength  in  resisting. 

REQUIREMENTS  OF  THE  GOLDEN  RULE 

I  have  said  that  honesty  embraces  the  principle  of  the  Golden  Rule. 
This  principle  forbids  interference  by  one  with  the  rights  of  another. 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  8  Second  Dag 

It  requires  that  every  man  be  privileged  to  pursue  his  lawful  calling  in 
his  own  way  and  in  peace,  without  restraint  or  hindrance.  The  em- 
ployer must  give  an  honest  day's  pay  for  an  honest  day's  work.  The 
employee  must  give  an  honest  day's  work  for  an  honest  day's  pay. 
Honesty  condemns  falsity  in  all  its  forms.  It  does  not  permit  the  bear- 
ing of  false  witness.  It  banishes  from  out  its  pale  the  demagogic  art 
of  vilifying  and  misrepresenting  one  person  or  class  for  the  purpose  of 
arraying  another  person  or  class  against  the  first.  It  does  not  sow  dis- 
sension. Trust,  confidence,  assurance  and  peace  are  the  offspring  of 
honesty. 

War,  the  disputes  of  nations,  class  conflict,  the  bitterness  and  hatred 
that  threaten  the  peace  of  the  world  would  dissolve  by  the  simple  pro- 
cess of  observing  these  principles  of  honesty. 

Honesty  embraces  truth  and  requires  fidelity  to  principle.  In  this 
realm  lies  what  we  might  designate  as  honesty  in  public  life.  It  requires 
that  men  in  public  office  should  not  graft  even  within  the  law.  They 
must  set  principle  above  expediency  and  the  public  welfare  above  con- 
siderations of  personal  fortune.  The  scandals  that  rock  our  large  cities 
to  their  foundations  could  not  occur  if  those  trusted  with  official  au- 
thority practiced  the  simplest  principles  of  common  honesty.  Fidelity 
here  often  calls  for  a  high  order  of  moral  courage.  One  hears  of  legis- 
lators in  state  and  nation  who  talk  one  way  and  vote  another.  Among 
friends  and  in  confidence  they  condemn  policies  and  the  laws  projected 
to  effectuate  them,  yet  officially  they  vote  the  passage  of  those  laws 
merely  because  they  fear  the  course  of  right,  as  they  see  it,  might  not 
be  popular  and  to  follow  it  might  terminate  their  official  careers.  They 
would  rather  violate  their  consciences  than  lose  the  glamor  and  power 
of  official  position.  Such  men  constitute  a  far  greater  menace  to  our 
country'^  safety  than  do  all  the  propagandists  of  alien  philosophies  put 
together.  We  need  fear  no  invasion  from  without  so  long  as  we  are 
sound  to  the  core  within. 

Nearly  one  hundred  years  ago  in  a  stirring  appeal  to  France,  Victor 
Hugo  said :  "Sovereignty  is  not  in  dynasties,  it  is  not  in  princes,  it  is  not 
even  in  the  people.  It  is  higher;  *  *  *.  Sovereignty  is  in  truth!" 
Sovereign  truth  demands  undiluted  honesty.  Every  act  of  our  lives; 
every  concept  of  our  intellects ;  every  yearning  of  our  souls,  to  be  worthy, 
must  be  impregnated  with  the  quality  of  honesty — -that  quality  which 
gives  integrity  to  the  internal  structure  of  a  man  and  fits,  him  for  every 
trust. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  I  might  enjoy  a  por- 
tion of  the  Lord's  Spirit  in  the  endeavor  to  speak  to  you  this  morning. 
It  is  needless  for  me  to  say  that  I  have  a  feeling  of  gratitude  in  my  heart 
for  the  testimony  that  the  Lord  has  been  kind  enough  to  give  to  me  of 
the  divinity  of  this  great  work.    I  know  that  Jesus  of  Nazareth  is  the 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


69 


Redeemer  of  the  world,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and 
that  through  him  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  was  restored  to  the  earth 
in  its  simplicity  and  purity. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  parents  that  are  mine ;  grateful  because  they 
have  exemplified  in  their  lives  the  principles  of  virtue,  integrity  and 
faith.  I  am  grateful  to  the  Lord  that  he  has  again  established  upon  the 
earth  the  Church  organizations,  for  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  brought 
back  by  Peter,  James  and  John ;  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  restored  to  the 
earth  through  the  instrumentality  of  John  the  Baptist.  I  am  grateful 
for  the  fact  that  I  have  a  standing  and  membership  in  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

I  think  all  the  achievements  we  have  made  as  a  people  have  been 
possible  through  the  fact  that  we  have  had  in  our  midst  the  power  of  the 
Priesthood.   Brigham  Young  said: 

Much  has  been  said  about  the  power  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Is  it 
the  people  called  Latter-day  Saints  that  have  this  power,  or  is  it  the 
Priesthood? 

He  said  it  is  the  Priesthood,  and  if  they  live  according  to  that 
Priesthood,  they  could  commence  their  work  here  and  gain  many  victor- 
ies, and  be  prepared  to  receive  glory,  immortality,  and  eternal  life.  He 
made  another  statement. 

The  Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God  which  we  have  in  our  midst 
is  a  perfect  order  and  system  of  government,  and  this  alone  can  deliver 
the  human  family  from  all  the  evils  which  now  afflict  its  members,  and 
insure  them  of  happiness  hereafter. 

So  Priesthood  to  me  is  more  than  the  power  of  God  delegated  unto 
us,  whereby  we  may  act  as  his  representatives,  it  is  a  perfect  system 
and  order  of  government  given  to  us  -through  which  we  may  help  the 
human  race  to  solve  the  problems  that  now  afflict  it.  One  of  the  greatest 
differences  between  this  government  and  the  government  of  men  is  that 
we  have  no  desire  to  take  away  land  or  natural  resources  from  any  nation 
or  people,  but  we  have  a  desire  to  help  the  human  race,  teach  them  the 
ways  of  life  and  righteousness  as  they  have  been  revealed  to  us  in  this 
day  and  age. 

This  government  of  the  Priesthood  has  departments  or  divisions 
through  which  the  work  of  the  Lord  is  accomplished.  One  of  the  most 
important  ones  we  might  call  the  Department  of  Education;  we  find 
inscribed  over  the  portals  of  this  great  department  these  words:  "The 
glory  of  God  is  intelligence."  In  this  department  we  find  many  work- 
ers. One  of  the  most  representative  groups  of  workers  is  the  great 
missionary  corps  that  goes  out  into  the  world  preaching  the  Gospel  to 
every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people. 

There  are  other  workers  and  teachers,  for  we  are  essentially  a 
teaching  Church.  The  great  commission  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  was  to  teach  the  world  of  the  ways  and  of  the  principles  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Among  our  own  people  we  have,  another  corps  of 
teachers  whose  duty  it  is  to  go  among  the  Saints  once  a  month,  to  exhort, 


70  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  8  Second  Dag 

to  admonish,  and  stimulate  them  to  greater  activity  in  this  work,  and  to 
protect  them  from  the  snares  of  the  adversary. 

Through  the  auxiliary  organizations  of  the  Church  we  find  a  great 
educational  project  being  carried  out,  the  teaching  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  to  the  boys,  girls,  men  and  women  of  this  great  Church. 

There  are  other  departments  in  this  government  of  the  Priesthood. 
There  is  the  department  of  health,  the  fundamental  law  of  which  is  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  revealed  to  us  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
that  we  might  live  in  accordance  with  the  atmosphere  that  is  created 
by  the  Holy  Ghost  as  he  comes  to  dwell  within  us. 

There  is  the  finance  department.  Finances  are  just  as  essential  for 
the  carrying  on  of  the  work  in  this  kingdom  as  they  are  in  any  other  gov- 
ernment or  kingdom.  The  Lord  has  given  us  a  law  whereby  we  can  accum- 
ulate the  finances  to  carry  on  this  great  work — the  law  of  tithing,  a  most 
equitable  and  just  law.  He  has  also  given  us  another  law,  a  law  that  is 
necessary  for  the  taking  care  of  our  brothers  and  sisters  who  find  them- 
selves in  destitute  circumstances,  namely  the  law  of  fast  offerings. 
Through  this  law  the  Lord  expects  us  to  provide  the  means  whereby  we 
can  carry  on  the  great  assignment  that  has  come  to  us  in  connection  with 
the  Church  Welfare  program.  A  law,  too,  that  is  fair  and  equitable 
when  you  stop  to  think  that  all  the  Lord  asks  of  us  is  the  value  of  the 
two  meals  we  abstain  from  on  the  first  Sunday  of  each  month. 

There  is  another  great  department  in  the  government  of  the  Priest- 
hood, a  department  that  we  may  now  call  the  Welfare  department,  a 
department  that  has  been  organized  for  the  purpose  of  taking  care  of 
our  brethren  and  sisters  who  may  be  in  the  vale  of  poverty  and  need. 
We  have  two  objectives  in  this  great  department :  first,  to  accumulate 
enough  food  and  fuel,  and  provide  shelter  for  all  of  those  who  may  be 
in  need  of  these  necessities.  And  the  other  objective  in  connection  with 
this  plan  is  to  provide  every  man  with  the  right  to  earn  his  bread 
by  the  sweat  of  his  own  brow.  As  we  listened  this  morning  to  the  reports 
of  some  of  the  stake  presidents  in  relation  to  the  projects  that  have  already 
been  provided  for  those  who  need  work  it  was  most  inspirational,  when 
you  stop  to  think  that  not  far  distant  from  here  three  Elders  quorums 
went  to  work  on  a  project  comprising  some  three  thousand  acres  of  land. 
They  cultivated  some  nine  hundred  acres  of  it,  produced  a  crop  of  six- 
teen thousand  bushels  of  wheat,  and  in  addition  to  that  broke  up  another 
six  hundred  acres  which  are  to  be  used  in  1939.  All  this  is  being  done 
for  the  purpose  of  providing  the  necessities  of  life  and  labor  for  our 
brethren  and  sisters  who  are  in  need. 

There  are  other  projects  in  connection  wih  this  Welfare  depart- 
ment. Projects  to  rehabilitate  our  people  in  their  attitude  toward  the 
government,  in  their  attitude  toward  work,  and  in  their  attitude  toward 
the  Church.  In  this  great  government  of  the  Priesthood  we  find  that 
there  is  a  recreational  department  represented  by  the  Mutual  organiza- 
tions, that  provides  wholesome  recreation  for  the  people  of  the  Church. 

We  could  go  on  and  mention  many  other  departments  in  connection 
with  this  great  Priesthood  government.    But  there  are  two  relationships 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


71 


that  I  should  like  to  draw  to  your  attention.  The  first  is  the  relationship 
which  we  have  in  connection  with  the  business  world.  Brother  Albert  E. 
Bowen  has  already  mentioned  something  in  relation  to  it.  Those  of  us 
who  are  members  of  the  Priesthood  government,  who  hold  the  Priesthood 
of  God,  should  remember  that  in  all  of  our  dealings  with  the  business 
world  we  should  be  honest,  fair  and  square  in  our  dealings.  Brigham 
Young  said  upon  one  occasion : 

Men  who  are  vessels  of  the  Holy  Priesthood,  are  charged  with 
words  of  eternal  life  for  the  world  and  have  tried  continually  in  their 
words  and  actions  and  daily  deportment  to  do  honor  to  the  great  dignity 
of  their  calling  and  office  as  ministers  and  representatives  of  the  Most 
High.  ' 

It  would  seem  to  me  that  members  of  the  Priesthood  of  God  are 
servants  and  officers  in  this  government,  and  should  remember  to  live 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  our  shops,  in  our  stores,  in  our  factories, 
and  on  our  farms,  and  every  day  of  our  lives  as  well  as  on  Sunday. 

Then  there  is  another  relationship  that  we  have,  the  relationship 
with  the  governments  of  the  earth.  We  believe  in  obeying  the  laws  of 
all  governments.  May  I  say  that  one  of  our  Articles  of  Faith  points 
out  to  us : 

We  believe  in  being  subject  to  kings,  presidents,  rulers,  and  magis- 
trates, in  obeying,  honoring,  and  sustaining  the  law. 

We  believe  that,  and  this  is  the  relationship  that  should  exist 
between  us  and  all  nations,  regardless  of  where  we  may  live;  as  the 
Priesthood  and  the  government  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  we  have  a 
definite  responsibility  in  connection  with  the  Constitution  of  these  United 
States.  I  am  sure  if  there  is  a  people  in  all  the  world  that  appreciates  the 
Constitution  it  is  this  people,  for  under  this  divine  instrument  it  was 
possible  for  Joseph  Smith  to  bring  into  existence  the  Churcli  of  Jesus 
Christ,  in  a  nation  where  there  are  equal  rights,  the  right  to  worship 
God  according  to  the  dictates  of  one's  conscience. 

We  should  at  all  times  be  willing  to  sustain  the  great  Bill  of  Rights 
in  our  own  country,  to  sustain  and  uphold  the  laws  here.  I  firmly  believe 
that  Brigham  Young  was  a  prophet  of  Almighty  God.  I  think  that  he 
spoke  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord's  Spirit.  I  want  to  read  to  you 
an  excerpt  from  one  of  his  sermons,  wherein  he  laid  upon  the  shoulders 
of  the  Priesthood  of  this  Church  some  very  definite  responsibilities 
relative  to  the  fundamental  law  of  our  country.   He  said : 

I  expect  to  see  the  day  when  the  Elders  of  Israel  will  protect  and 
sustain  civil  and  religious  liberty,  and  every  constitutional  right  bequeathed 
to  us  by  our  fathers. 

He  said  these  rights  would  go  out  in  connection  with  the  Gospel 
for  the  salvation  of  all  nations,  and  added : 

I  shall  see  this  whether  I  live  or  whether  I  die.  I  do  not  lift  up 
my  voice  against  the  great  and  glorious  government  guaranteed  to  every 
citizen  by  our  Constitution,  but  against  those  administrators  who  trample 
the  Constitution  and  just  laws  under  their  feet. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


We  see  from  this  prophecy,  uttered  by  a  prophet  of  God  that  there 
will  yet  devolve  upon  the  Priesthood  of  this  Church  the  responsibility 
of  protecting  the  rights  and  the  Constitution  of  our  great  country. 

This  Priesthood  government,  this  perfect  system  of  government, 
as  Brigham  Young  calls  it,  is  headed  today  by  a  prophet  of  God,  a  man 
who  has  the  right,  the  authority  and  keys  to  receive  from  our  Heavenly 
Father  his  mind  and  will  in  relationship  to  his  Church  here  upon  earth. 
He  in  turn  is  surrounded  by  Apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who  have 
the  same  rights  and  privileges  as  the  Apostles  of  old,  so  that  the  leader- 
ship of  this  great  Church  comes  under  the  immediate  and  divine  direction 
of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

What  does  all  of  this  mean  to  you  and  to  me?  Do  we  appreciate 
the  Priesthood  ?  I  would  say  to  you  that  it  is  the  greatest  gift  that  God 
has  ever  given  unto  mankind,  and  if  we  have  appreciation  in  our  hearts 
let  us  render  that  appreciation  in  deeds  of  service.  When  the  Bishop 
calls  upon  us  to  go  block  teaching  let  us  consider  that  it  is  a  high  call, 
be  glad  to  go  and  admonish,  counsel  and  exhort  the  Saints.  It  matters 
not  what  our  call  in  the  Priesthood  may  be,  whatever  it  is  it  comes  to 
us  because  we  are  servants  of  God,  and  we  should  receive  the  call  with 
gladness,  and  with  the  thought  in  mind  that  after  the  work  has  been 
finished  we  will  be  recipients  of  great  blessings. 

Therefore,  let  us  approach  our  Priesthood  activities  and  responsi- 
bilities with  willing  hearts  and  without  any  reservations.  The  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  has  made  a  promise  to  those  who  will  serve  willingly  and 
gladly,  for  he  said : 

Verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  there  is  no  man  that  has  left  home,  or 
parents,  or  brothers,  or  wife,  or  children  for  the  Kingdom  of  God's  sake 
who  shall  not  receive  manifold  more  at  the  present  time  and  in  the  worlds 
to  come,  even  life  everlasting. 

May  we  appreciate  the  Priesthood  of  God ;  if  we  do  leave  our  homes 
and  our  businesses  for  the  kingdom's  sake,  let  us  remember  that  our 
blessings  will  be  life  everlasting,  which  I  hope  will  be  the  blessing  of 
each  and  every  one  of  us,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


I  labor  with  my  associates  in  a  land  made  holy  by  the  sufferings  and 
the  labors  of  our  people  in  the  early  history  of  the  Church.  We  have  a 
great  many  visitors  come,  particularly  in  the  summer  season,  wanting  to 
see  the  points  of  interest  through  which  our  people  passed,  and  where 
they  lived. 

We  try,  as  far  as  we  possibly  can,  to  give  them  proper  direction  and 
correct  information,  I  have  observed  that  after  they  have  been  to  these 
points  of  interest  in  the  State  of  Missouri,  if  they  do  return  they  invari- 
ably come  back  definitely  impressed  with  the  sacredness  of  these  spots  of 


ELDER  ELIAS  S.  WOODRUFF 


President  of  the  Central  States  Mission 


ELDER  ELIAS  S.  WOODRUFF 


73 


ground.  There  comes  into  their  hearts  a  great  reverence  for  the  deeds  of 
their  fathers,  and  I  sometimes  wish  that  every  member  of  the  Church 
could  have  the  privilege  of  going  to  Liberty,  and  Richmond,  Far  West, 
Adam-ondi-Ahman,  and  Haun's  Mill,  on  their  way  east  or  west,  as  they 
come  through  the  Central  States  Mission,  for  the  impression  that  it  gives 
them,  for  the  increase  in  their  faith  and  their  reverence  for  the  work  that 
has  been  performed  in  this  Church  by  its  founders  and  leaders. 

One  cannot  stand  upon  the  hill  overlooking  the  valley  of  Adam-ondi- 
Ahman  without  being  very  deeply  impressed  with  the  sacredness  of  the 
place.  When  we  go  there  we  take  Brother  Joseph  Fielding  Smith's  book, 
The  Way  To  Perfection  and  read  the  fortieth  chapter, .  which  tells 
how  that  before  he  died  our  father  Adam  came  with  his  generation 
of  descendants,  all  the  righteous,  and  blessed  them,  and  where  he  will 
eventually  return  when  the  time  comes  for  him  to  present  to  the  Savior 
his  children,  and  to  turn  over  the  kingdom  to  the  Lord. 

At  the  present  time  the  hill  upon  which  the  old  monument  stands — 
apparently  an  old  Nephite  look-out  station — is  covered  with  large  weeds, 
and  is  very  difficult  of  ascent.  Nevertheless,  it  is  quite  worth  the  climb 
up  the  hill  to  see  it.  I  have  sometimes  wondered  whether  or  not  I  should 
urge  that  we  attempt  to  acquire  some  piece  of  ground  there  that  would 
include  the  hill  and  part  of  the  valley,  and  make  it  easier  and  more  accep- 
table for  people  to  look  upon  that  valley  and  to  attain  that  eminence  on 
the  hillside. 

Those  spots  in  Missouri  are  very  very  sacred,  and  it  is  a  pleasure  to 
go  there.  I  think  our  people  who  read  the  history  of  the  Church,  if  I  judge 
them  by  myself,  do  not  adequately  understand  just  what  occurred  or  how 
it  happened.  It  is  a  new  revelation  to  again  read  the  history  of  the  Church 
in  Missouri  after  you  have  visited  those  points  of  interest.  I  believe  that 
the  time  will  come  in  Missouri,  as  it  is  now  fast  coming  in  the  State  of 
Illinois,  when  the  people  of  the  State  will  become  more  cognizant  of  the 
tourist  value  of  these  points  of  interest. 

I  am  happy  to  note  that  in  Illinois  two  of  our  cities — that  is,  Nauvoo 
and  Carthage — -have  become  two  of  five  points  of  interest  to  which  tour- 
ists are  directed  who  wish  to  see  the  interesting  and  historic  parts  of  the 
State  of  Illinois.  That  feeling  is  growing  in  the  State  of  Missouri.  A 
number  of  men  in  Independence  have  stated  to  me  at  times  that  when  it  is 
convenient  they  would  like  to  go  with  me  and  see  those  places.  It  will 
be  a  pleasure  for  me,  of  course,  to  take  them. 

I  can  report  to  you  that  the  work  of  the  mission  is  going  along,  and 
we  feel  very  much  encouraged,  because  the  Lord  does  bless  us  and  his 
power  is  manifest  as  we  proceed  with  our  labors.  The  missionaries  re- 
spond to  the  influence  of  the  Holy  Spirit;  they  try  to  teach  the  Gospel 
under  his  influence ;  they  are  prayerful  and  humble,  and  we  feel  that  the 
Lord  does  direct  our  efforts,  does  guide  us  to  the  homes  of  the  honest  in 
heart,  does  give  us  utterance  when  we  try  to  speak,  does  magnify  us  in 
the  hearts  and  minds  of  people,  and  gives  us  influence  as  his  servants,  to 
teach  them  and  to  persuade  them  in  the  ways  of  righteousness  and  faith. 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  8  Second  Dag 

I  am  grateful  for  the  opportunity  of  reporting  this  mission  to  you. 
I  am  deeply  grateful  for  the  opportunity  of  laboring  in  the  mission  field. 
I  trust  that  I  may  be  ever  found  worthy,  as  long  as  it  is  the  will  of  his 
servants  that  I  shall  remain  there,  to  discharge  my  duties  acceptably. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  you  may 
have  reverence  and  respect  for  the  traditions  of  the  past,  as  well  as  con- 
tinuing to  look  forward,  as  Bishop  Marvin  O.  Ashton  has  so  delightfully 
pointed  out  to  you,  and  not  live  in  the  past,  but  look  to  the  future.  But 
the  past  is  glorious  and  sacred  to  us.  It  inspires  us,  and  has  something  to 
do  with  an  increase  of  our  faith. 

May  God  add  his  blessings  to  you,  and  magnify  this  conference  to 
our  good,  I  humbly  ask,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  THOMAS  D.  REES 

Former  President  of  the  Australian  Mission 

I  am  very  happy  to  be  present  at  these  services  of  this  conference, 
happy  to  meet  my  friends  and  loved  ones  again.  For  three  years  I  have 
been  presiding  in  the  Australian  Mission,  and  I  am  constrained  in  the 
few  minutes  I  have  to  report  of  the  conditions  in  that  far-off  land. 

The  members  of  our  Church  in  that  section  of  the  world  are  a  fine 
class  of  people.  As  a  rule  they  are  educated,  courteous,  and  polite. 
Courtesy  and  politeness  are  the  characteristics  of  the  Australian  people. 
Our  Saints  live  in  comfortable  homes.  Those  who  need  employment 
have  employment.  Australia  today  is  a  very  prosperous  land.  They 
have  no  depression,  as  far  as  I  was  able  to  see.  Our  Saints  are  faithful 
to  their  duties.  They  attend  their  church  services.  They  pay  their 
tithes.  They  look  to  us,  hoping  always  to  be  led  by  the  spirit  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  am  happy  to  report  the  wonderful  work  that  is  being  done  by  our 
Elders  in  that  far-off  land.  I  wish  to  endorse  the  words  of  President 
Bryant  S.  Hinckley ;  there  is  nothing  that  can  come  into  a  boy's  life  or 
a  girl's  life  as  fine  as  a  missionary  experience.  Two  years  in  the  mission 
field  can  teach  them  much,  and  bring  to  them  a  richness  of  life  that  can- 
not be  found  in  any  other  two  years  of  life. 

I  am  happy  to  state  that  the  people  of  Australia  are  very  demo- 
cratic in  their  attitude  towards  our  Elders.  There  is  no  hate,  there  is 
no  animosity.  They  seem  to  invite  our  Elders  to  explain  the  Gospel.  The 
mission  covers  a  great  territory,  and  after  an  Elder  has  gone  across  the 
great  Pacific  nine  thouand  miles,  he  lands  in  Sydney,  a  city  of  a  million 
and  a  quarter  people,  all  of  whom  are  of  British  descent.  He  comes  to 
the  headquarters,  he  is  given  his  instructions,  and  is  surprised,  some- 
times, at  the  distance  he  is  required  to  travel  after  he  reaches  his  head- 
quarters. If  he  is  to  go  to  an  adjoining  district,  it  is  practically  as  far  as 
from  here  to  San  Diego.  Sometimes  we  tell  him :  "The  mission  district 
where  you  are  to  work  is  fifteen  hundred  miles  away."    One  of  our 


ELDER  W.  AIRD  MacDONALD 


75 


branches  is  as  far  from  headquarters  as  Hawaii  is  from  Salt  Lake  City. 
To  find  these  young  men  carrying  on  in  these  great  districts  gives  you 
such  a  thrill  that  you  feel  the  wonderful  privilege  it  is  to  be  in  the  mission 
field  with  them. 

Those  young  men  carry  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
with  them,  and  I  feel  sometimes  in  their  humility  they  approach  very 
close  to  their  Father  in  heaven.  The  question  is  ofttimes  asked :  "Why 
do  you  come  to  us?  We  are  a  Christian  people,  we  believe  in  Christ, 
we  have  beautiful  churches,  we  have  our  ministers,  we  have  the  Bible, 
what  have  you  got  that  is  different  ?"  This  is  an  opportune  time  for  an 
Elder  to  begin  telling  them  the  things  we  have  that  are  different.  He 
whom  they  call  their  head,  even  Jesus  Christ,  who  walked  by  the  Sea  of 
Galilee,  and  preached  the  wonderful  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  that  same 
King  has  come  in  this  day  to  the  prophets  of  the  living  God  and  declared 
himself  as  Jesus  Christ  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  It  is  that  message 
that  we  have  that  is  different,  and  we  carry  it  to  the  world,  and  when  an 
Elder  has  that  testimony  in  his  heart  he  is  not  afraid  to  step  up  to 
any  door;  he  is  not  afraid  to  speak  to  any  man.  We  have  the  words  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  it  is  the  answer  in  this  day  as  to  the  principles 
he  wishes  the  people  of  the  world  to  know  and  live. 

It  is  a  glorious  thing  when  we  can  say  in  expressing  our  message, 
"We  are  giving  you  the  word  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,"  and  that  should 
take  precedence  of  the  opinion  of  the  wisest  of  the  wise,  the  most  learned 
of  the  learned,  for  thus  saith  the  Lord  to  his  people  in  this  day,  and  that 
should  be  sufficient  to  end  all  controversy  as  to  what  the  Lord  means. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  those  Elders  go  forth  with  that  testimony 
in  their  hearts,  glorious  in  their  belief,  happy  in  their  faith  in  a  living  God, 
and  in  humility  serving  him.  It  is  the  most  glorious  thing  that  can  come 
into  their  lives.  Ask  an  Elder — it  makes  no  difference  how  long  it  has 
been  since  he  has  been  home — about  his  mission,  and  you  will  see  his  face 
brighten  and  his  eyes  begin  to  sparkle  as  he  tells  you  of  his  missionary 
experiences. 

I  want  to  bear  you  my  testimony  that  the  three  years  that  I  was  in 
the  mission  field  gave  me  a  richness  of  years  that  I  will  never  forget. 
May  God  bless  us  and  help  us  to  understand  that  our  Advocate,  even  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  is  at  the  head  of  this  work.  God  bless  us,  is  my 
prayer.  Amen. 

ELDER  W.  AIRD  MACDONALD 

President  of  the  California  Mission 

I  am  grateful,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  for  this  opportunity  of 
bringing  to  you  and  to  this  conference  a  report  of  the  California  Mis- 
sion. I  bring  to  you  the  greetings  of  your  sons  and  daughters  who  are 
serving  as  missionaries  in  that  great  mission.  They  are  well ;  after  some 
sickness  which  has  prevailed  with  us  during  the  past  few  months,  I  am 
happy  to  report  that  all  the  missionaries  are  enjoying  the  best  of  health, 


76  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  8  Second  Dag 

and  are  prosecuting  their  work  with  diligence  and  energy  in  carrying 
forward  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  want  to  endorse  the  remarks  that  have  been  made  here  by  Presi- 
dent Bryant  S.  Hinckley  and  President  Thomas  D.  Rees,  as  to  the  value, 
to  these  young  men  and  women,  of  this  opportunity  that  has  come  to  them 
to  serve  in  the  mission  field.  This  splendid  group  who  form  this  choir 
that  has  rendered  so  beautifully  for  us  today,  I  hope  that  in  each  of 
their  lives,  it  shall  be  their  plan  and  program  to  serve  in  the  mission 
field.  There  is  no  experience  that  can  come  to  a  young  man  or  woman 
that  shall  be  of  such  value  and  interest  to  them  throughout  their  lives 
as  the  experiences  gained  in  the  mission  field. 

We  came  to  this  earth  for  experience,  and  that  is  all  we  will  take 
out  of  it.  So  I  hope  it  shall  be  the  ambition  of  every  young  man 
and  woman  in  the  Church  to  go  on  a  mission.  I  hope  you  mothers 
and  fathers,  you  presidents  of  stakes  and  bishops  of  wards,  will  see  to  it 
that  those  under  your  care,  (you  who  are  stewards  over  them)  shall 
have  this  privilege.  See  that  they  are  not  cheated  out  of  this  golden  op- 
portunity. 

I  am  glad  to  report  that  the  work  in  the  California  Mission  is 
progressing  and  growing.  Nine  thousand  four  hundred  Saints  in  that 
mission,  which  embodies  three  states,  send  greetings  to  this  conference. 

We  are  grateful  to  the  presidency  of  the  Relief  Society  for  the 
opportunity  that  was  given  our  mission  to  bring  our  Singing  Mothers  to 
the  Relief  Society  conference.  Out  of  the  scattered  branches  of  that 
mission  there  have  come  to  this  conference  more  than  two  hundred 
of  these  Singing  Mothers  who  have  been  trained  by  Sister  MacDonald. 
We  are  grateful  also  to  Sister  Evangeline  Beesley,  for  her  capable 
leadership  and  direction  in  the  singing  of  these  women. 

I  have  not  time  to  give  to  you  the  remarkable  experiences  and 
sacrifices  made  by  these  splendid  Latter-day  Saint  women  who  came  at 
great  sacrifices  and  for  long  distances.  They  are  thrilled  with  this  op- 
portunity of  attending  a  General  Conference  of  the  Church,  and  of 
participating  in  the  blessings  that  belong  to  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  baptisms  in  the  California  Mission  have  increased  sixty  per 
cent  over  last  year,  which  is  evidence  of  the  energetic  work  of  your  boys 
and  girls  in  the  mission.  More  than  twelve  thousand  copies  of  the 
sacred  record,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  have  been  distributed  this  year. 
I  am  happy  to  bring  you  the  indication  that  the  people  of  the  world  are 
seeking  after  the  very  things  that  make  the  Mormon  Church  different. 
One  of  the  interesting  things  that  are  attracting  attention  and  unlock- 
ing the  doors  to  the  missionaries  is  the  Church  Welfare  program.  The 
fundamentals,  the  temporal  things,  about  which  our  Church  is  concerned, 
plus  the  fine  standards  set  by  our  people,  are  attracting  intelligent  men 
and  women. 

I  believe  that  we  should  be  more  concerned,  and  be  prepared  so  we 
shall  be  ready  to  receive  the  good  men  and  women  when  they  come  to 
accept  the  Gospel.  There  is  such  an  indication  of  interest  among  the 


ELDER  W.  AIRD  MacDONALD 


77 


people  who  are  now  seeking  after  the  finer  things  that  the  Gospel  em- 
bodies, I  tremble  sometimes  lest  we  shall  not  be  qualified  to  uphold  our 
standards.  I  would  like  to  exhort  Latter-day  Saints  to  a  re-reading  of 
the  forty-second  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  in  which,  at 
one  of  the  first  conferences  of  this  Church,  when  the  missionaries  had 
been  called  in,  and  with  the  Elders  assembled  together,  the  Prophet 
Joseph  stood  before  them,  and  in  the  majesty  and  power  that  was  given 
him,  spoke  this  great  message.  The  Lord  spoke  to  the  Elders  of  the 
Church  and  outlined  their  duties,  and  then  he  said :  "Now  I  speak  unto 
the  Church."  Orson  Pratt,  that  great  missionary  Apostle,  tells  us  that 
he  sat  there  in  that  great  audience  and  wrote  that  great  revelation  as  it 
fell  from  the  lips  of  the  Prophet. 

The  Lord  there  tells  the  Saints  what  is  necessary  for  them  to  do ; 
to  be  true ;  to  be  honest,  as  has  been  outlined  here  by  Apostle  Albert  E. 
Bowen  today.  They  shall  not  steal  and  they  shall  not  lie,  they  shall  not 
commit  adultery,  they  shall  love  their  wives  and  cleave  unto  them  and 
none  else.  The  Lord  here  outlines  the  fundamental  virtues  that  are 
necessary  in  the  process  of  making  Latter-day  Saints  out  of  converts 
to  this  Church. 

So  I  submit,  brothers  and  sisters,  the  re-reading  again  of  the  Lord's 
admonition  to  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  bring  you  the  announcement  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  has  now 
been  translated  into  the  Armenian  language,  and  that  under  the  direction 
of  Apostle  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Brother  N.  K,  Sheranian,  one  of  .  our  mis- 
sionaries, has  completed  the  first  printing  and  publishing  of  the  book 
into  this  language.  The  Nephite  record  is  now  to  be  given  to  the  scat- 
tered Armenian  people. 

I  am  happy  to  say  that  in  all  the  organizations  of  the  Church  in 
the  California  Mission  the  work  is  being  carried  on  in  our  small  branches 
as  nearly  as  possible  as  it  is  outlined  by  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church.  I  bear  testimony  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  in  reality  a  prophet  of  God.  I  sustain  wholeheartedly,  and 
I  bear  record,  that  our  leaders  today  are  inspired  men.  They  have  the 
inspiration  of  the  Lord  to  direct  this  work.  I  pray  that  the  Lord  will 
bless  us  as  a  people,  that  we  may  stand  firmly  together  and  uphold  the 
principles  that  have  been  given  us ;  that  by  our  lives,  and  the  works  we 
do,  we  shall  preach  the  Gospel  to  the  children  of  men ;  and  that  the  honor- 
able men  of  the  earth  seeing  our  good  example  may  be  led  to  investigate 
and  be  brought  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth. 

May  the  Lord  add  his  blessings  to  us,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 


An  anthem,  "Sing  for  the  Fallen  Brave"  (Wheeler),  was  sung  by 
the  Choir. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Satardag,  October  S  Second  Dag 

SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  fourth  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  promptly  at  2 
o'clock,  with  President  Heber  J.  Grant  presiding. 

The  musical  exercises  for  this  session  were  furnished  by  the 
Moroni  High  School  Choir. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  as  an  opening  number,  "We 
Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For  a  Prophet." 

Elder  Arthur  C.  Brown,  President  of  the  Millard  Stake  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

The  Choir  then  sang  the  anthem,  "Inflammatus." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  are  very  thankful  indeed  to  the  Moroni  High  School  Choir  for 
coming  here  and  singing  for  us.  We  enjoyed  very  much  their  singing 
this  morning.  Considering  the  small  population  of  the  town  of  Moroni 
we  certainly  feel  to  congratulate  the  people  there  on  their  fine  choir, 
their  good  singers,  and  their  school. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Brethren  and  sisters:  As  all  of  you  know,  this  is  an  extremely 
important  position  to  hold  at  this  time.  None  of  us  come  here  do  so 
without  carefully  thinking  of  what  we  may  have  to  say,  what  we  would 
like  to  say  or  what  we  ought  to  say,  and  we  dread  a  good  deal  about  it. 

You  brethren  and  sisters  who  are  here,  and  the  many  more  who 
are  listening  come  because  you  want  comfort,  you  want  encouragement, 
you  want  strength,  you  want  instruction  relative  to  your  duties  as  they 
appear  at  the  present  time,  and  those  of  us  who  occupy  this  position 
have  a  great  deal  of  responsibility  in  that  connection. 

I  have  committed  to  writing  a  few  things  that  it  occurred  to  me  I 
might  say.  I  hope  that  any  words  I  may  say  will  give  no  offense,  be- 
cause it  is  my  thought  only  to  say  things  that  are  helpful  without  com- 
plaint or  without  fault-finding. 

BY  THEIR  FRUITS  YE  SHALL  KNOW  THEM 

In  the  early  beginning  of  this  dispensation,  speaking  by  revelation  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the  Lord  said:  "Hearken  and  hear,  O  ye 
inhabitants  of  the  earth.  Listen  ye  elders  of  my  Church  together,  and  hear 
the  voice  of  the  Lord ;  for  he  calleth  upon  all  men,  and  he  commandeth  all 
men  everywhere  to  repent."  D.  &  C.  133 :16. 

In  a  former  day  when  the  Master  lived  on  the  earth,  among  other 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


79 


things  in  his  great  sermon  on  the  Mount  he  said :  "Wherefore  by  their 
fruits  ye  shall  know  them.  Not  everyone  that  saith  unto  me  Lord,  Lord, 
shall  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven ;  but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  my 
Father  which  is  in  heaven."  Matt.  7 :20,  21. 

As  an  illustration  of  the  meaning  in  these  sayings  of  Jesus,  the  Apos- 
tle James  wrote :  "What  doth  it  profit,  my  brethren,  though  a  man  say  he 
hath  faith  and  have  not  works  ?  Can  faith  save  him  ?  . . . .  Yea,  a  man 
may  say,  thou  hast  faith,  and  I  have  works;  shew  me  thy  faith  without 

thy  works,  and  I  will  shew  thee  my  faith  by  my  works  Wilt  thou 

know,  O  vain  man,  that  faith  without  works  is  dead  ?"  James  2 :14,  18,  20. 

And  so  may  we  not  think  of  the  gospel,  the  gospel  the  elders  of  the 
Church  are  called  to  preach,  as  being  a  gospel  of  faith,  repentance,  and 
work?  Certain  is  it  that  work — an  application  in  our  daily  lives  of  the 
principles  we  teach — is  an  essential  of  our  religion. 

LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  SHOULD  LIVE  UP  TO  PROFESSIONS 

The  thirteenth  article  of  faith  proclaims  that  "we  believe  in  being 
honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in  doing  good  to  all  men. 
. . . ."  Hence  a  faithful  and  worthy  Latter-day  Saint  must  be  character- 
ized by  the  virtues  named  in  this  article  of  our  faith.  Our  doctrine  of 
work  as  an  essential  of  salvation  makes  this  imperative. 

Now,  to  believe,  to  profess  a  faith,  may  be  easy;  to  do,  is  always 
more  or  less  difficult,  so  difficult  at  times  that  none  of  us  is  perfect  in  all 
things. 

SATAN  SEEKS  TO  OVERCOME  SAINTS 

Our  theology  makes  clear  to  us  why  mortal  man  fails  to  reach  per- 
fection. Satan  is  here  and  ever  more  or  less  near  each  one  of  us. 
Further,  none  of  us  has  entirely  succeeded,  as  Jesus  did,  in  putting 
Satan  completely  behind  him.  In  the  Middle  Ages  when  knighthood 
was  in  flower,  fighting  men  encased  themselves  in  metal  armaments. 
When  in  combat  they  would  try  to  strike  opponents  in  the  weakest  parts 
of  their  armor.  Satan  tries  to  do  the  same  thing  when  attempting  to 
overcome  us :  he  tempts  us  in  our  most  vulnerable  places.  In  other  words, 
he  tempts  us  in  ways  that  are  hardest  for  us  to  resist. 

Satan  and  his  hosts  were  cast  out  of  heaven  after  the  great  rebel- 
lion and  came  down  to  earth  where  they  have  since  lived.  In  conse- 
quence, evil  is  in  the  world.  The  devils  are  here  to  bring  pain  and  sorrow, 
distress  and  suffering,  misery  and  death  to  the  human  family.  They 
are  here  making  efforts  to  thwart  and  overcome  the  work  of  the  Lord. 
This  could  be  most  readily  done  by  destroying  the  Saints  of  God.  Hence 
wherever  the  Saints  are  Satan  is  not  likely  to  be  far  away. 

To  keep  these  thoughts  in  mind  may  be  helpful.  The  situation  is 
sueh  that  each  one  of  us  must  ever  be  on  his  guard  ready  to  ward  off  the 
attacks  of  the  angels  of  darkness. 

And  now  another  point:  our  theology  teaches  us  that  we  once  all 
lived  in  a  pre-mortal  spirit  world.  We  are  spirit  children  of  God,  our 
Father  in  heaven.  A  law  of  creation  in  the  realm  of  life  is  that  like  begets 


80  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  8  Second  Dag 

like.  Since  intelligence  is  the  glory  of  our  Father,  we  his  children  pos- 
sess at  least  in  embryo  a  spark  of  this  glorious  attribute.  We  were 
favored  with  the  high  privilege  of  coming  to  earth  as  a  necessary  step 
in  the  long  path  of  eternal  progression.  But  the  rate  of  advancement 
depends  upon  us.  There  is  from  heaven  no  compulsion  in  the  matter,  for 
the  principle  of  free  agency  given  by  the  Father  to  all  his  children,  oper- 
ates in  the  premises.  But  to  please  God  we  must  try  to  develop  our 
intellects  and  grow  in  knowledge  and  understanding,  wisdom  and  power, 
and  cultivate  our  wills  by  resisting  evil  and  doing  good. 

THE  GOLDEN  RULE  NOT  OPERATING  IN  WORLD  STRUGGLES 

What  do  I  mean  by  the  expression  "doing  good  ?"  The  Master  made 
the  meaning  clear  when  he  gave  us  the  Golden  Rule,  the  rule  that  applies 
and  makes  visible  in  our  lives  the  observance  of  the  two  great  command- 
ments, the  keeping  of  which  will  ornament  any  human  life  and  render  it 
saintly. 

But  the  chaos  existing  in  the  world  today  is  abundant  proof  that  the 
Golden  Rule  plays  little  or  no  part  in  the  affairs  of  men  or  nations. 

Looking  out  into  the  world,  what  do  we  see  ?  Struggle,  struggle  and 
still  more  struggle — men  everywhere  striving  for  position,  for  mastery, 
for  power,  for  rule — to  get  into  a  position  to  dictate  to  their  opponents 
the  terms  of  settlement.  So  fierce  and  general  have  the  struggles  become 
that  chaotic  conditions  prevail  everywhere — at  home  as  well  as  abroad. 

Overseas  it  is  the  struggles  of  nations  that  fix  our  attention.  In  our 
own  fair  land  we  are  disturbed  by  myriads  of  strikes  and  lockouts,  indus- 
trial disputes,  struggles  of  class  against  class,  groups  against  groups, 
parties  against  parties,  etc.,  in  great  number.  In  all  of  these  cases  clever 
propaganda,  accompanied  by  some  type  of  force,  are  the  weapons  of  the 
struggles. 

To  see  all  of  these  things  makes  us  fear  and  tremble  for  the  morrow, 
for  it  is  evident  that  a  mighty  revolution  is  in  progress  the  end  of  which 
will  be  a  profoundly  different  America  from  the  historic  country  we 
received  from  the  founders  of  the  Republic.  In  those  days  the  patriots 
fought  against  taxation  without  representation,  the  fight  being  the  spark 
that  set  the  revolution  aflame.  Today  we  fight  for  representation  without 
taxation.  We  struggle  for  all  the  advantages  of  a  benevolent  government, 
set  up  by  ourselves,  made  rich  by  the  strong  arm  of  the  law  seizing  what- 
ever it  can  from  him  who  has. 

We  fight  against  being  taxed,  but  demand  more  and  more  of  the 
benefits  that  taxes  provide.  Is  this  not  a  struggle  to  get  something  for 
nothing,  at  least  to  get  more  and  more  for  less  and  less  ? 

We  listen  to  smooth-tongued  demagogues,  accept  as  truth  their  wild 
vagaries  and  enthusiastically  follow  their  cunning  and  selfish  leadership. 
Why?  Is  it  not  in  the  hope  of  getting  for  ourselves  more  and  more 
for  less  and  less  ?  We  become  adherents  of  various  groups,  pay  member- 
ship dues,  sometimes  participate  in  disturbances,  and.  engage  in  various 
other  kinds  of  activities.  Why?  Is  it  not  in  the  hope  of  getting  more 
and  more  for  less  and  less  ? 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


81 


In  all  of  these  things  do  we  stop  to  ask  ourselves  if  our  conduct 
squares  with  the  thirteenth  article  of  our  faith  ?  We  profess  to  hate  com- 
munism and  fascism  and  stoutly  deny  that  we  would  give  the  slightest 
support  to  either  of  these  isms.  Do  we  ever  stop  to  think  that  in  many 
respects  these  isms  have  much  in  common  and  that  many  of  the  things 
we  do  are  heartily  supported  by  communists  who  see  in  them  an  applica- 
tion of  communistic  principles?  We  are  willing  to  overthrow  some  of 
our  established  methods  and  institutions,  apparently  without  realizing 
that  in  so  doing  we  take  step  after  step  that  brings  us  nearer  and  nearer 
to  communistic  objectives. 

Our  moral  standards  appear  also  to  be  changing,  in  many  respects 
becoming  weaker  and  lower.  This  is  perhaps  more  apparent  in  our  group 
and  national  conduct  than  in  our  individual  actions.  Of  what  group  or 
nation  can  it  be  longer  said  it's  word  is  as  good  as  its  bond?  During 
recent  years  we  have  seen  nations  default  on  their  pledges,  fail  in  their 
promises  and  entirely  ignore  their  solemn  commitments.  The  situation 
has  become  so  bad  that  nations  today  put  little  or  no  trust  in  each  other's 
commitments.  The  United  States,  China,  Abyssinia,  Czechoslovakia, 
many  private  investors,  and  others  have  learned  this  to  their  sorrow. 

Two  years  ago  a  great  industrial  disturbance  of  the  Pacific  Coast 
began  about  this  time  of  the  year.  It  continued  for  98  days,  and  cost, 
it  was  said,  about  seven  hundred  millions  of  dollars.  What  came  out 
of  it?  Ill-will,  misery  and  hatred.  What  was  the  weapon  used  in  the 
struggle?  Force.  And  force  is,  and  always  has  been,  the  weapon  of 
Satan  and  his  helpers.  It  was  the  weapon  he  proposed  in  the  great 
council  in  heaven  that  he  would  use  to  save  all  the  Father's  children.  It 
is  the  weapon  still  used  by  all  the  Father's  children  who  permit  themselves 
to  be  influenced  by  this  crafty  enemy  of  all  righteousness. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  refer  to  these  things  because  I  think  our 
attention  should  be  called  to  them.  To  me  the  outlook  is  anything  but 
pleasant.  If  I  see  aright,  we  are  traveling  towards  more  and  more 
chaotic  conditions.  Selfishness  in  the  individual  and  in  his  group  rela- 
tions appear  to  be  getting  more  and  more  pronounced.  And  where 
selfishness  is  strong  love  is  weak.  These  two  qualities  cannot  be  boon 
companions  nor  dwell  together  in  harmony. 

Needless,  almost,  to  say  this  to  Latter-day  Saints.  We  readily  grant 
it  is  true.  But  do  we  profess  love  and  practice  selfishness  ?  Few  people 
among  us  today  sympathize  with  communism,  an  ism  of  selfishness.  But 
does  this  not  make  the  situation  all  the  more  dangerous,  when  what  we 
do  establishes  communistic  principles? 

I  said  selfishness — that  quality  of  character  that  demands  more  and 
more  for  less  and  less — and  love  cannot  dwell  together  in  harmony.  I 
mean  of  course  that  type  of  love  that  finds  application  in  the  Golden 
Rule.  Neither  can  love  and  injustice  go  hand  in  hand.  The  great 
Welfare  Program  of  the  Church  seeks  to  exalt  love  and  subdue  selfish- 
ness. Would  that  this  Godly  plan  were  more  widely  in  operation  ! 

Force  as  an  instrument  in  human  relations  is  absolutely  banned  by 
the  teachings  of  the  Master.    Satan's  proposal  to  use  it  to  bring  back  to 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  8  Second  Day 

heaven  all  the  earth-children  of  the  Father  was  rejected  and  the*  doctrine 
of  free  agency  proclaimed.  In  Christ's  Church  compulsion  of  the  human 
will  is  unknown. 

DUTY  OF  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  used  the  word  selfishness  in 
its  most  general  sense,  not  as  applicable  to  you  fine  men  and  women  who 
are  here,  the  cream  of  the  Church,  the  officers  of  the  Church,  the  leaders 
in  all  the  departments  of  the  Church.  In  your  lives  you  are  as  a  light 
set  upon  a  hill,  but  I  am  speaking  of  conditions  in  general,  and  what  would 
I  have  us  do,  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  ?   I  would  have  us  do  what  I  think  we  ought  to  do. 

Now  I  use  that  word  "think."  The  Lord  has  given  us  intelligence, 
as  his  spirit  children  we  possess  it  for  a  purpose,  and  I  think  he  has 
given  it  to  us  to  be  used.  I  think,  brethren  and  sisters,  in  this  chaotic 
world  in  which  we  are  living  that  it  behooves  each  one  of  us  to  use  all  of 
the  intelligence  that  God  has  given  us ;  study  all  propositions  that  come 
to  us ;  study  every  appeal  that  is  made ;  study  everything  that  is  proposed, 
and  with  God's  help,  on  our  bended  knees,  seeking  his  guidance  and  the 
inspiration  of  his  Spirit,  try  to  find  out  what  he  would  have  us  do,  and 
when  we  can  determine  that  conscientiously,  to  the; very  best  of  our 
ability,  act  accordingly.  But  in  our  actions  we  may,  if  we  care  to,  get 
some  guidance  if  we  will  look  to  the  head  of  the  Church.  We  held  up 
our  hands  here  the  other  morning  to  support  President  Grant  as  a 
prophet,  seer,  and  revelator.  Are  we  willing  to  follow  him,  and  to  fol- 
low his  advice,  and  to  take  his  suggestions,  or  will  we  let  them  pass  into 
one  ear  and  out  of  the  other?  Not  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  who  are 
here,  but  some  members  of  the  Church  who  are  not  here,  some  possibly 
who  may  be  listening  at  this  moment  to  what  is  being  said  here. 

I  think,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  ought  to  be  consistent.  I  think 
the  Lord  expects  us  to  be  consistent.  We  are  to  be  sincere  in  the  profes- 
sions of  our  faith  and  make  our  conduct  square  with  our  professions. 
If  we  do  that,  brethren  and  sisters,  the  people  of  this  Church  will  stand 
up  and  we  will  be  a  light  to  all  the  world.  There  will  be,  so  far  as  we  are 
concerned,  a  peace  and  a  security,  there  will  be  a  love  among  us,  there 
will  be  no  class  distinction,  we  will  all  be  brothers  and  sisters,  we  will  all 
be  devoted  to  each  other's  interests,  and  we  will  be  loyal  and  true  to  the 
leadership  of  this  Church. 

May  God  help  us  to  be  that,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  am  very  sorry  that  we  shall  have  to  limit  our  Mission  Presidents  in 
the  length  of  their  remarks.  We  should  really  like  to  hear  them  speak 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  each,  but  we  have  to  ask  them  to  stay  within 
the  limit  of  ten  minutes.  Our  conference  is  just  half  through,  and  we 
have  not  heard  from  half  of  this  body  of  speakers. 


ELDER  HAROLD  W.  PRATT 


83 


ELDER  HAROLD  W.  PRATT 

Former  President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

My  dear  Brethren  and  Sisters :  I  assure  you  of  my  humility  in  at- 
tempting to  utilize  part  of  your  time  again.  I  realize  the  responsibility 
involved  in  taking  part  of  the  time  of  this  great  congregation,  and  I  shall 
not  speak  long  this  afternoon.  I  merely  wish  to  thank  you  and  the  lead- 
ers of  the  Church  and  our  Heavenly  Father,  in  your  presence,  for  the 
opportunity  of  service  that  has  been  mine  in  the  mission  field. 

During  the  past  nearly  five  years  it  has  been  my  privilege  to  serve 
in  the  Mexican  Mission  among  a  people  that  I  love.  It  has  been  my  op- 
portunity during  that  time  to  labor  with  many  of  your  sons  and  daugh- 
ters, a  privilege  that  I  esteem  above  everything  else.  I  feel  that  my  life 
has  indeed  been  enriched. 

I  endorse  heartily  the  remarks  of  President  Hinckley  and  of  Presi- 
dent Rees  with  regard  to  the  benefits  reaped  by  your  sons  and  daughters 
through  service  in  the  mission  field.  I  exhort  you,  as  did  President  Mac- 
donald  this  morning,  to  look  toward  the  sending  of  your  sons  and  daugh- 
ters into  the  mission  field.  No  finer  experience  can  come  to  them,  I  as- 
sure you.  I  appreciate  fully  the  advantage  and  the  progress  that  the 
missionary  has  in  the  mission  field.  I  realize  what  this  missionary  system 
means  to  the  Church,  the  advancement  and  the  growth  that  come  to  the 
Church  through  the  experience  and  the  progress  of  the  individual  mis- 
sionaries as  they  return  to  the  Church,  but  I  wish  to  sound  one  note  of 
warning :  Let  not  this  be  our  purpose  in  sending  out  missionaries. 

The  Master  said :  "He  that  findeth  his  life  shall  lose  it ;  and  he  that 
loseth  his  life  for  my  sake  shall  find  it."  Let  this  be  our  guiding  spirit 
in  sending  forth  our  missionaries.  Let  them  go  forth  not  so  much  for 
the  benefit  that  they  may  reap,  or  the  benefit  they  may  bring  home  to  us 
as  an  organization,  but  let  them  go  forth  rather  to  serve  the  Master,  and 
in  serving  him  serve  their  fellow  men ;  to  take  the  Gospel,  which  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation,  to  those  who  are  yet  in  darkness.  I  assure 
you  that  if  they  go  forth  in  that  spirit,  reaping  the  benefit  that  they  them- 
selves will  reap,  and  reaping  the  benefits  that  we  as  an  organization  in 
sending  them  forth  shall  reap,  we  will  all  be  greatly  blessed. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  know  that 
God  lives,  that  Jesus  the  Christ  was  sent  by  the  Father  and  gave  his  life 
that  we  might  live  again.  I  know  that  his  Gospel  has  been  restored 
through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  I  bear 
you  my  solemn  testimony  before  my  Heavenly  Father  that  I  know  that 
the  present  leadership  of  the  Church  is  truly  inspired,  that  it  is  authorized 
to  lead  us  in  the  path  of  righteousness. 

Let  us  take  seriously  the  advice  that  we  are  receiving  at  this  con- 
ference, and  .go  forth  with  a  renewed  determination  to  practice  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel  and  to  live  in  accordance  with  the  advice  of  our  in- 
spired leadership. 

May  this  be  our  lot,  I  pray  in  Jesus'  name,  Amen. 


84  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  8  Second  Dag 

ELDER  LeGRAND  P.  BACKMAN 

Former  President  of  the  South  African  Mission 

My  beloved  brothers  and  sisters,  I  deem  this  a  real  privilege,  to 
stand  before  you  this  afternoon,  and  I  pray  that  the  inspiration  of  my 
Almighty  Father  may  be  with  me  on  this  occasion. 

I  bring  to  you  the  greetings  of  the  members  of  the  Church  in  the 
farthest  mission  of  the  whole  world,  with  headquarters  just  fifteen 
thousand  miles  away.  I  can  assure  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  we 
have  some  of  the  finest  people  in  the  whole  Church  in  the  South  African 
Mission. 

As  I  sat  here  today  my  heart  went  back  to  my  mission  field,  and  I 
thought  of  the  many  hearts  that  yearn  for  the  privilege  of  coming  here, 
to  be  here  in  the  Tabernacle,  to  see  the  Temple,  and  to  hear  the  inspired 
words  of  our  leaders.  Oh,  how  our  people  down  there  long  for  that,  be- 
cause up  to  the  present  time  they  have  had  no  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church  visit  that  great  land.  I  realize  that  South  Africa  is  a  long,  long 
ways  away  from  headquarters,  and  we  only  have  a  little  over  two  million 
white  people  in  the  whole  of  the  country,  but  nevertheless  in  our  work  " 
with  the  white  people  in  that  land  we  have  found  them  the  finest  people 
that  I  think  we  can  find  anywhere  in  the  world. 

It  seems  that  the  people  of  South  Africa  are  filled  with  the  spirit  of 
pioneering.  They  are  open-minded.  They  are  free  to  hear  the  truth,  and 
I  believe  that  we  are  showing  wonderful  progress  in  that  great  land. 

Just  a  little  over  a  year  ago  I  was  in  Rhodesia,  near  the  great  battle 
fields  where  conflicts  between  the  British  and  some  of  the  Kaffir  tribes 
took  place  not  so  many  years  ago.  On  a  little  farm  called  "Fern  Creek 
Farm,"  away  up  in  that  Rhodesian  country,  we  have  two  families  of 
members.  We  went  to  one  of  their  homes  one  night,  and  there  held  a 
meeting.  They  had  no  electric  light.  We  held  our  meeting  by  candle- 
light. There  were  just  the  four  members  of  the  Church  and  Sister 
Backman  and  two  of  the  missionaries  and  myself. 

The  old  man  and  old  woman,  Brother  and  Sister  Viljoen,  could 
not  speak  a  word  of  English,  and  so  Brother  Jubber  acted  as  interpreter. 
After  Sister  Backman  and  the  two  missionaries  spoke,  he  interpreted  to 
them  what  had  been  said,  and  then  I  got  up  and  spoke,  and  talked  for 
some  time,  and  as  I  noticed  their  faces  I  could  see  them  light  up 
with  understanding,  and  they  knew  what  I  was  saying.  When  I  got 
through  Brother  Jubber  said :  "Shall  I  interpret  what  Brother  Backman 
has  said  ?"  They  said :  "No,  we  understood  every  word  the  President  has 
said  to  us." 

I  am  just  mentioning  this,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  to  let  you  know 
that  in  the  farthest  outposts  of  the  Church  our  people  are  blessed  with 
the  same  spirit  and  the  same  inspiration  that  we  have  throughout  the 
world  among  those  that  are  true  Latter-day  Saints,  and  indeed  we  have 
true  Latter-day  Saints  in  that  land. 

I  have  had  the  great  privilege  of  seeing  a  wonderful  progress  of  the 


ELDER  0.  F.  URSENBACH 


85 


Church  in  South  Africa,  because  in  1915,  when  I  went  out  to  South 
Africa  on  my  first  mission,  I  was  held  prisoner  on  a  boat  in  Durban  Har- 
bor for  three  days  because  I  was  a  Mormon  missionary,  and  now,  when 
I  returned  again  to  preside  over  that  mission,  after  an  absence  of  sixteen 
years,  I  saw  that  most  of  the  prejudice  had  been  done  away  with.  The 
people  were  willing  to  listen  to  our  message.  In  February  of  this  past  year 
we  had  the  privilege  of  taking  our  chorus  from  the  headquarters  in  Cape 
town  and  appearing  in  the  City  Hall  of  Capetown  with  the  Cape  Town 
symphony  orchestra,  and  several  of  the  outstanding  artists  in  Cape 
Town  assisted  us  in  a  fine  program. 

I  am  just  bringing  this  to  your  attention  to  let  you  know  that  as  far 
as  South  Africa  is  concerned,  prejudice  is  almost  done  away,  and  we  are 
meeting  some  of  the  finest  and  some  of  the  best  people  in  that  land,  and 
they  are  willling  to  hear  our  message,  and  they  are  willing  to  give  us  of 
their  hospitality,  for  which  they  are  so  well  known. 

I  thank  God  with  all  my  heart  for  the  wonderful  privilege  that  has 
been  ours  during  the  last  three  and  one-half  years,  to  labor  in  that  land. 
I  love  Africa  because  I  know  that  is  where  I  learned  to  know  my  God, 
where  I  learned  to  gain  a  testimony  of  this  wonderful  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

I  come  back  from  the  firing  line  of  missionary  work,  filled  with  en- 
thusiasm for  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  know  it  is  the  grandest  and  the 
greatest  philosophy  in  life,  and  I  only  hope  and  trust  and  pray  that  I 
might  be  able  to  continue  to  live  as  I  know  my  Heavenly  Father  would 
have  me  live.  I  thank  Him  for  this  privilege.  I  thank  the  Presidency  of 
the  Church  and  the  Authorities  for  the  wonderful  privilege  that  has  been 
mine. 

The  missionaries  that  have  been  with  us  have  been  all  noble,  wonder- 
ful boys.  Forty  of  them  have  passed  through  our  hands  in  the  past  three 
and  a  half  years,  and  I  can  truthfully  say  not  one  of  them  has  given  us 
the  slightest  concern,  and  I  am  sure  that  that  is  a  remarkable  record. 

May  God's  choicest  blessings  be  with  us  all,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  O.  F.  URSENBACH 

Former  President  of  the  French  Mission 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters :  I  am  exceedingly  weak  in  standing 
before  you.    May  I  be  a  beneficiary  of  your  faith. 

It  gives  me  great  joy  to  report  briefly  the  French  Mission,  which, 
by  the  way,  geographically  I  think  is  the  largest  mission  in  Europe,  yet 
we  have  a  membership  of  a  little  less  than  one  thousand,  about  fifty-five 
per  cent  in  Belgium,  about  thirty-five  per  cent  in  Switzerland,  and  about 
ten  per  cent  in  France ;  but  we  have  very  lovely  people,  who  have  made 
sacrifices  for  the  Gospel  of  our  Lord,  and  are  very  devoted.  In  the  mis- 
sion there  is  a  group  of  young  men  and  women  missionaries  that  are 
very  excellent.   Many  of  them  went  into  the  mission  fields  not  having  a 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  8  Second  Day 

testimony  of  the  Gospel  burning  in  their  hearts,  and  if  they  didn't  find 
God  in  the  wards  and  stakes  at  home,  they  have  and  are  finding  him  in 
that  field  of  labor. 

We  have  tried  to  inoculate  into  the  hearts  of  these  young  people  that 
they  are  ambassadors  of  life  and  salvation,  representing  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church  and  the  Twelve  Apostles,  their  stake  presidents, 
their  bishops,  and  their  parents  at  home,  and  as  such,  putting  them  on 
their  honor,  we  have  expected  them  to  be  the  missionaries  that  those  who 
trust  them  think  they  are.  It  is  surprising  how  this  has  worked  in  giving 
these  young  people  a  superstructure  and  a  solidarity  in  presenting  our 
Gospel  message  to  the  world. 

We  are  happy  to  report  that  in  the  last  two  years  I  think  we  have 
doubled  baptisms  of  any  preceding  period  of  time  in  the  history  of  the 
French  Mission.  We  have  done  this  following  what  we  called  a  seven- 
point  program  that  we  presented  to  the  Church,  that  it  might  be  appro- 
priate here  for  me  to  review  briefly. 

There  have  been  too  many  people  baptized  in  the  missions  who  did 
not  know  what  they  were  baptized  for.  We  have  found  plenty  of  them, 
many  of  them,  who  have  wondered  why  they  were  baptized  members  of 
the  Church,  and  it  is  no  wonder  some  of  them  don't  remain. 

In  the  seven-point  program  the  qualifications  that  we  presented  were, 

First :  Do  you  accept,  unreservedly,  God  the  Eternal  Father,  a  per- 
sonal being  and  Father  of  the  human  family  ? 

Second :  Do  you  accept  the  atonement  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  as 
being  full  and  complete,  and  that  when  a  man  or  a  child  is  baptized  for 
the  purpose  of  removing  from  him  the  stain  of  Eden,  the  act  automatical- 
ly denies  the  efficacy  of  the  atonement  of  Jesus  Christ? 

Third :  Do  you  accept  the  doctrines  and  principles  of  faith,  repen- 
tance, baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  the  laying  on 
of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost? 

Fourth :  Do  you  accept  the  fact  of  a  universal  apostasy  in  the  Primi- 
tive church,  necessitating  a  restoration  of  the  Gospel? 

Fifth :  Do  you  accept  the  fact  that  God  and  Jesus  Christ  appeared 
to  Joseph  Smith,  and  that  later  he  was  ordained  to  the  Holy  Priesthood 
and  authorized  to  establish  the  Church  of  God  on  the  earth  in  this  dis- 
pensation ? 

Sixth :  Do  you  unreservedly  accept  the  law  of  tithing,  as  revealed 
from  heaven  for  the  upbuilding  of  the  Lord's  church  in  this  dispensa- 
tion? 

Seventh :  Do  you  accept  the  missionaries  as  being  here  with  divine 
authority  to  preach  the  Gospel,  to  baptize  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and 
lay  on  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost? 

There  was  one  Catholic  family  who,  after  thus  being  qualified, 
answered  affirmatively  and  whole-heartedly  to  every  question.  I  said  to 
them :  "Why  have  you  not  asked  me  for  baptism  ?"  "Because,"  said  they, 
"we  have  been  waiting  for  you  to  ask  us."  I  said :  "That  will  not  hap- 
pen. When  you  are  ready  for  baptism  you  will  ask  me."  The  next  Sun- 
day they  applied  for  baptism,  and  they  are  good  members  of  the  Church. 


ELDER  ABEL  S.  RICH 


87 


In  this  way  of  qualifying  members,  when  we  bring  them  into  the 
Church  we  know  they  are  coming  in  with  a  knowledge  of  what  they  are 
doing. 

I  am  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  privilege  of  having 
served  these  four  years  in  Europe.  I  am  grateful  for  these  young  mis- 
sionaries who  are  over  there  representing  some  of  you  parents.  I  am 
grateful  that  the  brethren  have  seen  fit  to  send  lady  missionaries  into  the 
French  Mission.  I  wish  I  had  time  to  tell  you  just  what  these  ladies  are 
doing. 

The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  true.  The 
Lord  said,  through  his  prophet: 

How  beautiful  upon  the  mountains  are  the  feet  of  them  that  bringeth 
glad  tidings  and  publisheth  peace,  and  saith  to  Zion :  The  Lord  reigneth ! 

I  wish  the  world  could  accept  this,  the  gospel  of  peace  that  we  are 
proclaiming  to  the  world.  If  they  would  accept  Jesus  Christ  and  his 
plan  of  peace,  we  would  have  no  war  and  contention  in  the  nations. 

Completing  the  passage : 

Thy  watchmen  shall  lift  up  their  voices,  and  together  shall  they  sing ; 
for  they  shall  see  eye  to  eye,  when  the  Lord  has  brought  again  Zion. 

Go  the  length  and  breadth  of  the  earth  and  see  if  the  Latter-day 
Saints  do  not  see  eye  to  eye.  I  have  had  the  privilege,  my  friends,  of 
visiting  groups  of  Latter-day  Saints  in  nine  different  nations,  and  we 
see  that  they  do  see  "eye  to  eye" — the  same  hopes,  the  same  aspirations, 
the  same  principles  of  the  Gospel,  the  same  things  that  are  characterized, 
as  President  Clawson  said  yesterday,  by  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

I  am  going  to  close  by  quoting  from  the  thirty-fifth  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants.  That  will  apply  to  us  all.  The  Lord  said  to 
Joseph  Smith: 

Keep  all  the  commandments  and  covenants  by  which  ye  are  bound; 
and  I  will  cause  the  heavens  to  shake  for  your  good,  and  Satan  shall 
tremble,  and  Zion  shall  rejoice  upon  the  hills  and  flourish. 

I  wish  we  could  take  this  to  our  hearts  and  know  in  our  minds  that 
we  were  keeping  all  of  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  and  not  only 
part  of  them.  If  we  would  do  this  as  a  people  I  don't  know  what  power 
and  glory  would  come  to  us  in  excess  of  what  we  enjoy  today. 

I  rejoice  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  I  bear  my  testimony  to 
you  of  its  divinity.   It  is  the  greatest  thing  in  my  life. 

May  God  bless  you.   I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  ABEL  S.  RICH 

Former  President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

I  am  indeed  happy  to  have  this  privilege  of  speaking  just  a  word  to 
you  at  the  conclusion  of  the  mission  from  which  we  have  returned  so 
recently.  The  past  three  years  have  been  one  of  the  happiest  periods  of 
our  lives,  speaking  of  myself  and  family.   I  am  convinced  that  the  mis- 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  8  Second  Day 

sionary  system  of  the  Church  is  one  of  the  finest  institutions  in  our  Church 
for  building  the  testimonies  of  our  young  people,  and  keeping  burning 
alive  that  testimony  in  the  homes  from  which  those  missionaries  come. 

When  I  think  of  the  many  young  men  and  women  who  came  to  the 
Canadian  Mission  and  served  while  we  were  there,  and  saw  their  devo- 
tion to  the  work,  the  progress  they  made,  the  struggle  many  of  them  had 
to  make  to  adjust  to  the  new  surroundings,  and  yet  their  willingness  to 
go  and  do  whatever  was  asked  of  them,  and  then  to  see  the  development 
made,  the  acceptance  of  responsibility,  and  the  love  that  grew  in  their 
hearts  for  the  cause  they  represented,  and  for  the  people  among  whom 
they  labored,  I  say  I  am  more  convinced  than  I  have  ever  been  in  my  life, 
before,  that  this  institution  is  of  God. 

I  enjoyed  Canada  and  the  Canadian  people,  a  cultured,  refined  peo- 
ple. Bringing  with  them  traditions  from  the  Old  World,  they  have  been 
pretty  well  set  in  their  ways.  It  is  not  infrequent  that  we  would  hear 
people  who  became  interested  in  the  Church  say:  "My  folks  have  be- 
longed to  this  or  that  religion  for  generations  and  generations,  and  I  feel 
that  I  should  remain  where  my  ancestors  were."  With  those  well  set  ideas 
it  has  been  most  difficult  to  get  the  Gospel  clearly  before  them.  Those 
who  have  been  converted  in  the  Canadian  Mission  are  honest,  true,  de- 
voted. 

It  is  one  of  the  oldest  mission  fields  in  the  Church.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  himself  went  through  part  of  eastern  Canada,  and  when 
he  departed  from  that  mission  I  recall  that  he  had  a  prayer  in  his  heart 
that  God  would  bless  those  people,  that  all  may  have  their  minds  en- 
lightened and  their  understandings  quickened,  that  they  may  be  led  to 
accept  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Followed  by  the  Prophet  were  Brigham  Young  and  his  brother, 
Joseph  Young.  Then  later  Parley  P.  Pratt  and  many  others  of  the  stal- 
wart leaders  of  the  Church  went  into  that  field,  and  they  found  many 
people  receptive  to  the  Gospel.  It  was  in  Toronto  where  a  whole  group 
joined  the  Church,  and  many  of  them  came  to  Utah  with  the  Saints.  As 
nearly  as  I  can  discover,  a  large  group  joined  the  Church  in  Halifax  and 
emigrated  while  the  first  companies  of  Saints  were  on  the  way  to  the 
West.  Yet  left  behind  in  that  country  are  scattered  Saints  here  and  there, 
with  many  pretty  well  organized  branches  of  the  Church,  that  are  carry- 
ing on  the  work  and  finding  joy  and  happiness  in  it. 

I  enjoyed  very  much  going  through  the  mission  with  President 
David  A.  Smith,  who  has  been  recently  appointed  to  preside  over 
that  mission.  I  was  happy  when  he  came,  because  of  his  understanding, 
and  because  the  people  loved  him,  and  he  loved  them  and'loved  that  work, 
for  I  love  those  people,  and  I  am  sure  that  the  work  will  grow  and  pro- 
gress in  that  part  of  the  vineyard. 

I  am  very  grateful  that  during  the  past  three  years  we  have  been 
privileged  to  build  the  first  meeting  house  in  the  Canadian  Mission.  Many 
of  those  Saints  who  have  been  in  the  Church  for  thirty  years,  or  more, 
have  never  been  inside  of  a  Latter-day  Saint  meeting  house,  and  when 


ELDER  ABEL  S.  RICH 


89 


we  were  told  that  we  might  build  a  meeting  house,  with  a  recreational  hall 
and  class  rooms,  I  cannot  explain  to  you  people  the  joy  and  happiness  that 
came  to  those  people  over  the  prospects.  I  understand  that  it  is  just  about 
,completed  now,  and  it  will  be  the  first  time  that  those  people  will  have  the 
privilege  of  meeting  in  class-rooms,  where  they  are  not  disturbed,  and 
meeting  in  a  meeting  house  where  clubs  and  other  kinds  of  meetings  are 
not  being  held ;  and  I  am  sure  that  it  will  turn  many  peoples'  attention  to 
the  Church. 

During  the  past  summer  we  had  the  privilege  of  receiving  a  number 
of  short-term  missionaries,  some  of  our  school  teachers,  and  they  formed 
a  wonderful  addition  to  that  mission.  As  they  went  about  their  work  so 
earnestly  and  efficiently  I  could  not  help  but  think  what  a  wonderful 
vacation  it  would  be  for  many  of  our  people,  to  go  into  the  mission  field 
for  a  short-term  mission.  If  we  had  doctors  and  lawyers,  business  men, 
and  school  teachers,  each  would  be  able,  possibly,  to  meet  people  in  the 
profession  to  which  he  belonged,  meet  them  on  ground  that  he  would  be 
able  to  explain  the  Gospel  to  them.  For  it  is  not  sufficient  only  to  have 
the  truth,  but  we  must  have  the  ability  to  explain  that  truth,  and  we  must 
'in  some  way  have  the  ability  to  remove  the  prejudice  from  the  peoples' 
minds,  in  order  to  get  them  to  see  the  truth  as  we  have  it  for  them. 

I  believe  that  each  man  may  meet  those  people  of  his  own  profession, 
in  such  a  manner  that  the  Gospel  will  be  preached  more  efficiently  than 
could  be  done  by  some  one  of  another  profession.  It  seems  to  me  that 
some  day  it  may  be  the  case,  that  this  work  will  become  so  prominent  and 
so  popular  that  all  our  people  will  desire  to  go  and  spread  the  Gospel  to 
the  world. 

We  do  have  a  wonderful  thing,  brothers  and  sisters,  in  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  When  we  have  grown  up  in  it,  and  have  had  all  these  fine 
conveniences,  these  beautiful  buildings,  with  the  Authorities  of  the  Church 
'  here  to  counsel  with  us,  we  sometimes  fail  to  appreciate  just  what  all  these 
blessings  are.  If  you  go  into  the  world  and  see  people — just  a  little  hand- 
ful of  them,  not  enough  to  make  the  great  program  of  the  Church  active 
as  we  have  it  here  at  home — and  see  the  faithfulness  and  the  devotion 
and  the  love  of  those  people,  I  believe  it  creates  within  our  hearts  a  greater 
love  for  the  work  and  a  greater  appreciation  of  it. 

I  shall  be  grateful  all  my  life  to  my  brethren  who  saw  fit  to  let  me 
fill  this  mission  in  the  world.  I  am  deeply  grateful  also  for  the  com- 
panionship and  for  the  support  of  the  Authorities  of  the  Church,  of  the 
missionaries,  and  of  you  parents,  and  for  your  fine  attitude  in  this  great 
missionary  work. 

I  sincerely  pray  that  our  Father  in  heaven  will  bless  this  great  Church, 
that  we  may  stand  unitedly  together,  working  for  the  upbuilding  of  it, 
and  that  we  may  receive  the  blessings  that  the  Lord  has  promised  to  us, 
I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


A  selection,  "Cavatina"  (Raff),  was  rendered  by  the  Choir  and  a 
violin  trio.    (Arrangement  by  Noble  Cain). 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dag 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


It  seems  that  the  usual  radio  technique  is  grossly  inadequate  for  such 
a  time  as  this.  By  the  forewarning  of  a  chance  meeting  with  President 
Grant  last  Thursday  evening,  I  thought  that  perhaps  the  shock  of  what 
has  befallen  me  would  have  been  somewhat  alleviated  yesterday  morning, 
when  it  was  announced  here,  and  also  this  moment,  but  such  seems 
not  to  be  the  case. 

I  spent  a  sleepless  night  Thursday  night,  burning  old  bridges  and 
building  new  ones.  I  think  that  perhaps  this  call  would  have  come  easier 
to  me  a  little  later  in  life,  after  I  had  had  a  better  opportunity  to  make 
substance  of  more  of  my  dreams,  but  perhaps  this  is  not  so.  Perhaps  I 
must  just  exchange  old  dreams  for  new  dreams. 

It  is  less  than  three  weeks,  during  a  nation-wide  Tabernacle  choir 
broadcast,  that  I  read  from  this  pulpit  as  follows  : 

There  are  two  things  that  enter  into  the  life  of  every  man :  Those 
things  which  we  plan  for  ourselves,  and  those  things  which  enter  into 
our  lives  in  spite  of  all  our  plans.  Sometimes,  happily,  we  fare  better 
than  we  had  honestly  hoped,  and  sometimes,  unhappily,  we  find  we  fall 
far  short  of  achieving  those  things  for  which  we  have  striven.  But  no 
matter  how  well  we  seem  to  control  those  elements  which  affect  our  lives, 
there  are  always  to  be  considered  things  unlooked  for.  Surely  it  must 
be  better  that  way.  It  would  be  difficult  to  imagine  a  more  unsatisfactory 
existence  than  the  life  of  a  man  into  which  nothing  unexpected  ever  came. 
Furthermore,  it  is  all  part  of  a  great  plan.  The  Lord  still  chasteneth 
whom  he  loveth,  and  all  those  things  which  come  into  our  lives  in  spite 
of  our  best  laid  plans,  are  part  of  the  education  and  enriching  experience 
of  every  child  of  God  who  walks  the  earth.  We  may  think  what  we  would 
like  for  ourselves,  and  then,  in  the  spirit  of  that  resignation  born  of  faith, 
we  must  reconcile  ourselves  at  one  time  or  another,  to  say  as  in  the  words 
of  the  hymn  about  to  be  sung,  "I'll  go  where  you  want  me  to  go,  dear 
Lord ;  I'll  be  what  you  want  me  to  be." 

I  knew,  when  I  sent  out  these  words  to  a  nation-wide  radio  audience, 
that  they  were  true,  but  I  did  not  know  that  they  would  return  home  so 
quickly.  It  is  a  conclusive  thing  for  a  man  to  stand  convicted  by  his  own 
words,  and  I  now  so  stand  before  you. 

My  association  with  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  dates 
back  to  about  eleven  years  ago,  perhaps  a  little  more,  at  which  time  I  did 
not  have  a  speaking  acquaintance — with  one  exception,  I  think — with  any 
of  the  General  Authorities.  At  that  time  I  found  myself  in  the  British 
Mission  as  a  young  man  under  twenty-one  years  of  age  and  was  aware 
of  the  penetrating  eyes  of  Dr.  James  E.  Talmage  looking  at  me  during  my 
first  meeting  with  him  at  a  conference  of  the  Norwich  District,  shortly 
after  which  I  was  called  into  the  European  Mission  offiice  at  Liverpool 
and  became  associated  with  him  in  the  editorship  of  the  Millennial  Star. 
Under  his  tutelage  I  found  myself  squirming  at  times,  but  nevertheless 
greatly  benefited  by  his  rigid  scrutiny  and  exacting  requirements.  It 
was  a  good  experience.  And  I  love  and  honor  the  memory  of  the  man 
who  so  painstakingly  troubled  himself  to  train  me  in  ways  of  precision 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


91 


and  exactitude,  when  of ttimes  it  would  have  been  much  less  trouble  for 
him  to  have  done  the  task  in  hand  himself. 

That  was  followed  by  the  coming  of  Dr.  John  A.  Widtsoe,  and  I 
learned  more  from  him.  The  rapidity  with  which  he  worked,  the  breadth 
of  his  knowledge  and  abilities,  his  power  to  use  other  men  and  to  help 
them  realize  themselves  were  a  source  of  constant  inspiration. 

Under  him  I  later  became  secretary  of  the  European  Mission  and 
visited  countries  from  the  Mediterranean  up  to  beyond  the  Arctic  Circle, 
and  my  heart  is  filled  with  thanks  to  him  also  for  his.  belief  in  a  young 
man. 

Since  that  time  it  has  been  my  privilege  to  become  acquainted  with 
all  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  and  their  lives  have  been 
a  testimony  to  me,  because  I  know  that  they  would  not  be  doing  the  things 
they  are  doing,  and  would  not  have  left  the  things  they  have  left,  to  do 
the  things  they  are  now  doing,  except  that  they  know  of  a  surety  that  this 
is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  must  go  forward. 

I  have  been  very  grateful  for  the  opportunity  of  engaging  in  the  radio 
activity  that  it  has  fallen  to  my  lot  to  be  engaged  in.  One  of  the  greatest 
satisfactions  of  my  life  is  to  read  the  letters  that  come  in  every  day, 
week  after  week,  from  people  who  listen  to  the  nation-wide  program 
from  the  Tabernacle  each  Sunday  morning,  and  who  find  their  lives 
touched  by  the  spirit  of  it,  and  find  cause  to  inquire  further. 

I  have  known  of  some  conversions  that  have  come  directly  from  this 
program,  resulting  in  baptisms  into  the  Church,  which  is  an  experience 
that  I  did  not  have  the  joy  of  observing  in  the  mission  field  as  a  direct 
result  of  my  own  efforts. 

I  know  that  tens  of  thousands  more,  from  the  character  of  the  mail 
that  comes  in,  must  be  deeply  touched  by  the  things  that  go  from  here 
each  Sunday  morning  on  the  Tabernacle  Choir  broadcast.  The  music 
of  the  choir  and  the  organ  prepares  the  hearts  of  those  who  listen  for 
the  reception  of  the  spoken  messages,  and  it  is  very  encouraging  to  me 
to  realize  that  a  truth  does  not  need  to  be  shouted  to  be  appreciated — - 
that  a  truth  quietly  spoken  has  much  greater  effect  than  an  untruth 
shouted  from  the  housetops. 

It  has  been  a  gratifying  experience  to  me  to  be  associated  in  the 
editorship  of  The  Improvement  Era.  I  struggled  with  myself  for  more 
than  six  months  from  the  time  the  Presidency  first  called  me  over  and 
suggested  that  I  take  the  editorship  of  this  magazine,  until  the  time  that 
it  was  actually  undertaken.  They  did  not  make  their  request  in  the 
nature  of  a  call.  They  left  it  entirely  to  my  judgment,  and  it  took  me  six 
months  to  reach  the  conclusion  that  they  would  not  have  called  me  over 
there  if  they  had  not  wanted  me  to  do  it ;  but  this  realization  finally  settled 
upon  my  consciousness  and  I  made  the  change — for  what  reason  I  did 
not  know  at  the  time.  I  was  very  grateful  that  the  Presidency  have  left 
me  some  radio  activity,  because  it  has  meant  much  to  me  and  I  feel  that 
the  results  are  gaining. 

I  spent  a  good  part  of  the  day  yesterday  trying  to  find  sympathy 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  8  Second  Day 

from  some  of  these  my  brethren,  the  General  Authorities,  who  are  sitting 
around  me  here.  I  found  none,  so  I  decided  to  like  what  has  befallen 
me.  President  Clark  told  me  yesterday  morning  that  they  had  all  been 
through  it,  and  I  might  just  as  well  cheer  up.  I  reminded  him  that  he 
had  not  been  called  into  the  work  at  my  age,  and  President  McKay,  sit- 
ting by  him,  reminded  me  that  he  had ;  and  President  Grant  reminded 
me  also  that  no  one  who  ever  wanted  one  of  these  positions  ever  got  one. 
So  with  all  these  unanswerable  rebuttals,  and  finding  no  sympathy,  I  have 
sincerely  decided  to  like  my  lot. 

At  an  annual  testimony  meeting  of  the  General  Board  of  the  Young 
Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association  some  months  ago,  I  stated  that 
the  two  paramount  immediate  ambitions  I  had  were  to  assist  in  the  editing 
of  the  best  Church  magazine  in  the  world,  and  to  assist  in  the  production 
of  what  I  hoped  to  be  the  best  Church  radio  program  in  the  world.  So  far 
as  I  am  aware,  my  immediate  ambitions  have  not  changed.  My  remote 
ambitions  will  either  have  to  be  abandoned  or  await  the  direction  of 
these  my  brethren,  in  whose  keeping  I  find  myself,  and  whose  associa- 
tion I  love,  and  whose  judgment  I  trust. 

I  keep  in  my  desk  a  comment  by  Abraham  Lincoln  to  the  effect  that 
he  who  molds  public  sentiment  does  more  than  he  who  enacts  laws  or 
hands  down  decisions.  I  find  that  to  be  true ;  I  believe  it  to  be  true,  and 
I  believe  that  we  in  this  Church  must  use  every  means  that  is  available 
for  molding  public  sentiment  for  truth,  both  within  and  without  the 
Church.  That  is  why  I  have  been  particularly  happy  with  both  my  radio 
activity  and  editing  experience,  because  I  believe  the  press  and  the  radio, 
combined,  are  the  greatest  and  most  effective  means  today  of  molding 
public  sentiment,  and  we  must  use  them  to  the  utmost,  because  we  must 
keep  in  mind  that  the  same  facilities  that  are  being  used  to  build  public 
sentiment  for  truth  are  also  being  used  to  build  public  sentiment  for 
untruth. 

I  have  often  pondered,  in  my  own  mind,  the  reasons  why  our  mis- 
sionary results  have  not  been  comparable  to  those  of  the  early  missionaries 
to  Great  Britain,  into  which  history  I  delved  at  some  length  in  the  im- 
mediate past.  When  I  learned  of  penniless  missionaries  converting 
whole  communities  and  baptizing  thousands  of  souls,  I  was  worried  and 
puzzled  in  some  respects,  wondering  what  was  lacking  in  that  we  are  not 
doing  the  same  today.  I  have  subsequently  concluded  that  there  are  at 
least  two  partial  explanations.  One  is  that  the  Lord  advised  the  Prophet 
in  that  day  that  the  field  was  white  and  ready  to  harvest,  and  indeed  it 
was.  Another  is  that  our  advantages  today  are  comparatively  not  as 
great,  or  not  as  much  greater  than  theirs,  as  it  would  seem,  because  we 
must  keep  in  mind  that  every  means  that  is  being  used  for  the  promulga- 
tion .of  the  truth  is  also  being  used  for  the  promulgation  of  untruth. 

That  is  why  we  must  not  be  found  sleeping  at  any  time.  That  is  why 
we  must  be  diligent  with  every  means  at  our  command,  to  use  all 
modern  facilities  with  greater  intelligence,  with  greater  foresight  and 
with  greater  effectiveness.  This  we  will  do  increasingly,  I  feel  sure. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


93 


Those  who  were  close  to  my  feelings  yesterday  morning  before 
the  announcement  of  my  appointment  to  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 
was  made  at  this  conference  were  aware  that  if  there  had  been  any  way 
to  turn  back  in  honor  I  would  have  done  so,  but  I  do  not  know  to  what 
point  I  would  have  turned  back,  and  I  realize  keenly  that  there  was  no 
turning  back — that  turning  back  would  have  been  turning  away. 

If  I  had  been  of  a  mind  to  turn  back  I  should  have  done  it  at  my 
mother's  knee.  I  should  have  done  it  before  she  taught  me  to  pay  out 
my  first  few  pennies  in  tithing.  I  should  have  done  it  before  her  firm 
and  gentle  hand  directed  my  steps  into  the  ways  of  truth.  I  should  have 
done  it  before  I  came  up  through  the  auxiliary  organizations  of  this 
Church ;  before  I  went  on  a  mission ;  before  I  went  into  the  service  of 
the  Mutual  Improvement  Association  and  The  Improvement  Era.  It 
was  only  necessary  for  me  to  think  quietly  for  a  few  moments  to  see 
that  there  is  no  turning  back  for  a  Latter-day  Saint,  and  he  who  thinks 
there  is,  finds  himself  not  turning  back  but  turning  away.  I  think  that 
lesson  may  well  come  into  the  lives  of  all  of  us. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  opportunity  to  serve.  I  have  appreciated  the 
kindness,  the  fatherliness  of  President  Grant,  President  Clark,  Presi- 
dent McKay,  Dr.  Widtsoe,  Brother  Bowen,  and  all  these  brethren.  They 
have  all  been  kind,  considerate  and  helpful  to  me.  My  own  father  died  as 
the  result  of  an  accident  when  I  was  ten  weeks  old.  My  mother  reared  a 
family  of  nine  children,  all  of  whom  at  that  time  were  under  eighteen. 
With  a  meager  and  unreliable  income,  she  immediately  sent  my  eldest 
brother  on  a  mission.  Such  faith  as  that  in  the  home  in  which  I  was  reared, 
could  only  produce  one  result,  and  the  result  is  that  all  of  my  nine  brothers 
and  sisters  have  come  up  through  the  program  of  the  Church  to  be  a 
credit  to  my  mother  and  to  all  that  this  Church  stands  for. 

I  am  very  grateful  for  all  of  these  things,  and  with  your  confidence 
and  the  help  of  the  Lord  and  the  advice  and  encouragement  of  these  my 
brethren,  I  hope  that  I  shall  not  be  an  unprofitable  servant. 

;I  know,  as  well  as  I  know  any  of  the  facts  of  life,  that  Jesus  was 
the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of  this  world ;  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
prophet  of  the  Lord,  as  have  been  all  his  successors ;  and  that  this  is  the 
work  of  the  Lord. 

The  young  men  of  the  Church  are  my  friends.  They  belong  to  my 
generation.  I  know  them.  They  have  their  difficulties,  their  problems, 
their  struggles,  economically  and  otherwise,  but  I  have  no  fear  for  their 
integrity  or  their  ability.  I  have  no  fear  for  their  willingness  to  serve 
as  the  years  roll  along.  I  know  that  they  say  in  chorus :  "Our  hearts 
are  not  turned  back,  neither  have  we  departed  from  thy  way,"  and  that 
is  my  expression  also,  in  their  behalf. 

I  ask  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  upon  all  of  us,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  8  Second  Day 

ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Associate  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

It  is  a  source  of  joy  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  with  you 
in  this  conference,  to  participate  in  the  exercises,  and  to  partake  of  the 
spirit  of  the  meetings  we  have  held.  I  endorse  the  remarks  that  have 
been  made  and  the  testimonies  and  instructions  that  have  been  given. 

I  sense  the  sacredness  of  the  important  calling  that  has  come  to  me 
in  the  past  six  months.  You  may  realize  that  this  call  was  as  unexpected 
to  me  as  it  was  to  you.  It  was  farthest  from  my  thoughts.  A  large  part 
of  my  life  has  been  spent,  so  far  as  church  work  has  been  concerned,  in 
the  practical  and  temporal  affairs  of  the  Church ;  and  it  means  quite 
a  change  to  devote  myself  primarily  to  spiritual  and  Gospel  advance- 
ment, and,  more  directly,  to  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel. 

MISSIONARY  EXPERIENCES 

I  have  spent  five  years  of  my  life  in  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel 
abroad,  and  I  may  say  to  you  that  they  were  among  the  happiest  years 
of  my  life.  I  was  sent  on  my  first  mission  some  thirty-nine  years  ago, 
and  about  one  and  one-half  years  after  my  arrival  there,  when  I  was 
presiding  over  the  Netherlands-Belgium  Mission,  I  had  the  pleasure 
and  privilege  of  meeting  with  President  Francis  M.  Lyman  of  the 
European  Mission,  and  many  of  the  missionaries  of  the  mission  over 
which  I  was  then  called  to  preside.  At  that  time  President  Lyman 
invited  us  to  pledge  ourselves  anew  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  not  only  while  we  were  on  our  mission,  but  through- 
out our  lives,  that  we  would  undertake  to  be  true  to  the  Gospel,  and 
active  in  its  service  throughout  our  lives.  That  was  a  very  remarkable 
pledge,  in  many  ways,  and  I  took  it  seriously.  I  made  the  pledge  and  I 
have  endeavored  to  live  in  accordance  with  that  covenant  and  to  give  of 
my  best  efforts  from  that  time  to  the  present.  In  the  thirty-nine  years 
that  have  passed  from  that  time  to  this  I  have  had  responsibilities  placed 
upon  me  in  the  stake  presidency  for  twenty-one  years  and  in  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  for  thirteen  years.  During  that  entire  time  I  have 
been  happy  in  giving  my  best  efforts  to  advance  the  interests  of  this 
Church,  and  to  seek  to  promote  the  welfare  of  all  the  people  of  the  Church. 

TESTIMONY  OF  THE  TRUTH 

I  sustain  my  brethren  of  the  First  Presidency,  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  all  the 
stake  presidencies,  ward  bishoprics,  mission  presidents,  and  all  the 
members  of  the  Church.  I  have  great  love  for  all  of  you.  I  realize  that 
this  work  is  the  greatest  cause  in  the  world.  It  is  the  truth  and  it  will 
endure  and  will  accomplish  its  purpose,  which  is  to  bring  about  right- 
eousness and  truth  in  the  earth,  and  to  bring  to  pass  the'preparation  for 
the  reign  of  peace  which  is  to  come. 

I  have  great  joy  in  these  things.   My  testimony  has  increased  from 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


day  to  day  and  from  year  to  year.  I  have  seen  many  evidences  of  the 
blessings  of  the  Lord  upon  me  and  upon  the  people  of  this  Church.  I 
have  had  many  answers  to  prayer.  I  have  seen  manifestations  of  the 
power  of  the  Priesthood.  I  know  that  this  work  is  divine.  I  testify 
to  you  that  the  Gospel  has  been  restored  through  the  revelation  of  our 
Eternal  Father  and  his  beloved  Son  Jesus  Christ  to  Joseph  Smith, 
followed  by  other  divine  revelations,  and  the  restoration  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood  to  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery.  I  know  that  this 
divine  authority  to  direct  all  the  work  of  the  Church,  to  perform  all  the 
ordinances  of  the  Gospel,  and  to  lead  the  Church  in  righteousness,  has 
been  given  to  men  upon  the  earth,  and  that  the  men  who  have  been 
called  to  preside  over  this  Church  from  the  beginning  have  been  and  are 
the  Lord's  anointed. 

I  have  had  the  pleasure  of  knowing  five  of  the  seven  men  who  have 
presided  over  the  Church.  As  a  very  young  boy,  I  knew  President  Tay- 
lor. I  had  the  pleasure  of  knowing  him  and  seeing  him  in  my  father's 
home,  of  having  him  bless  me  because  I  was  not  very  strong  and  vigorous. 
I  have  known  every  one  of  them  to  be  inspired,  to  be  fiilled  with  the 
power  and  ability  that  comes  through  the  ordination  of  men  to  leadership 
in  this  Church.  I  sustain  President  Grant  with  all  my  heart,  as  I  do  all 
my  brethren.  I  desire  to  be  one  with  them  in  advancing  every  interest 
of  this  work.  My  heart  is  in  it  and  I  deire  to  be  active  and  faithful 
and  to  qualify  in  largest  measure  for  the  responsibility  that  has  come  to 
me. 

EUROPEAN  VISIT  TO  EXAMINE  INTO  BUILDING  PROBLEMS 

As  you  realize,  I  have  just  returned,  with  Sister  Cannon,  after  a  trip 
of  some  nine  weeks  abroad  in  visiting  the  ten  missions  in  Europe.  I  was 
called,  under  instructions  of  the  First  Presidency,  to  examine  into  the 
condition  of  the  buildings  in  the  various  missions,  and  building  prob- 
lems, and  so  I  spent  the  time  largely  in  doing  that  work.  There  are  some 
difficult  but  important  building  problems  that  need  prompt  solution.  I 
found  that  there  are  some  thirty-three  branch  buildings  owned  by  the 
Church  in  Europe.  They  are  in  varying  conditions  as  to  repair  and  suit- 
ability. None  of  them,  I  may  say,  has  been  designed  or  built  in  accor- 
dance with  the  standardized  procedure  we  have  adopted  in  the  past  few 
years  in  the  work  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric's  office  in  the  wards  and 
stakes.  Half  of  the  branch  buildings  in  Europe  are  in  Great  Britain.  In 
addition  to  the  branch  buildings  in  Europe  there  are  four  Church-owned 
buildings  occupied  as  mission  offices  and  homes  in  various  missions. 

UNIFORM  BUILDING  POLICY  NEEDED 

There  are  requests  being  made  for  additional  buildings.  In  order  to 
save  unnecessary  expense,  and  to  secure  the  best  results  at  minimum  cost, 
there  needs  to  be  a  uniform,  definite,  supervised  policy  established  for 
the  erection  of  buildings  in  the  mission  fields,  which  may  be  somewhat 
different  from  that  in  the  wards  and  stakes,  and  yet  will  require  great 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  8  Second  Day 

care  and  planning  and  proper  budgeting  in  order  that  such  construction 
as  may  be  undertaken  will  provide  the  most  effective  results  and  be  with- 
in the  available  funds  of  the  Church  for  that  purpose. 

EFFICIENT  EXPENDITURES  OF  TITHES 

I  realize,  as  you  do,  that  a  large  proportion  of  the  funds  of  the 
Church  comes  from  the  tithes.  The  faithful  membership  of  the  Church, 
who  are  paying  their  tithing,  realize  that  not  only  are  they  observing  the 
commandment  of  the  Lord  in  this  respect,  and  enjoying  the  blessings  that 
come  through  this  commandment,  which  is  a  commandment  with  a 
promise,  but  they  realize  that  in  all  the  divisions  and  departments  of  the 
Church,  the  expenditures  made  from  the  tithes  are  being  accurately,  eco- 
nomically and  efficiently  handled.  They  appreciate  the  fact  that  well  de- 
signed, appropriate  buildings  are  being  erected  in  the  various  wards  at 
minimum  costs  and  a  maximum  of  economy,  consistent  with  the  condi- 
tions required.  Naturally,  in  order  to  care  for  all  the  demands  made  up- 
on the  Church,  in  every  department,  in  its  steady  growth,  there  must  be 
the  greatest  efficiency  and  economy  possible  to  promote  the  greatest  wel- 
fare. There  should  always  be  an  attitude  and  feeling  on  the  part  of  those 
who  preside  in  the  various  wards  and  stakes  and  missions  that  they  are 
willing  to  accept  the  advice,  the  suggestions  and  plans  of  those  who  have 
the  responsibility  therefor,  in  carrying  out  the  work  that  needs  to  be  done 
in  all  of  these  various  divisions,  and  to  avoid  any  extravagant  or  unneces- 
sary costs. 

I  am  sure  that  there  can  be  considerable  work  done  in  the  various 
missions  in  Europe,  in  addition  to  the  missions  in  the  United  States  and 
other  parts  of  the  world,  that  will  enable  us  through  proper  planning  and 
supervision,  to  obtain  better  results  than  we  have  had  heretofore,  and  to 
maintain  all  buildings  in  such  a  way  that  they  will  be  a  credit  and  a  pride 
to  the  Church. 

MISSIONARIES,  OFFICERS  AND  MEMBERS  FAITHFUL 

We  had  the  pleasure  of  meeting  with  the  mission  presidents  and  with 
some  of  the  missionaries  in  all  the  various  missions.  I  attended  some 
twenty  public  meetings  while  abroad,  and  also  had  the  opportunity  of 
counseling  with  the  mission  presidents  and  some  of  the  missionaries  in 
some  of  the  missions.  I  wish  to  say  to  you  that  they  are  happy,  and,  with 
very  few  exceptions,  are  in  perfect  health,  full  of  faith  and  courage  and 
going  forth  to  perform  their  duties  and  responsibilities.  In  my  mission- 
ary experience  I  have  found  that,  in  general,  the  missionaries  who  spend 
the  least  money  and  accept  the  simple  hospitality  of  the  people,  accomp- 
lish the  most  work,  develop  the  greatest  faith  and  obtain  the  greatest  re- 
sults. This  is  in  harmony  with  the  word  of  the  Lord :  "Behold,  I  send 
you  out  to  prove  the  world,  and  the  laborer  is  worthy  of  his  hire.  .  .  And 
he  who  feeds  you,  or  clothes  you,  or  gives  you  money,  shall  in  nowise 
lose  his  reward."   (D.  &  C.  84 :79,  90.) 

I  have  been  delighted  also  to  find  among  the  membership  of  the 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


97 


Church — the  local  brethren  who  bear  the  Priesthood — -an  appreciation 
of  their  responsibility,  a  willingness  to  labor  in  humility,  faith  and  devo- 
tion, and  to  become  established  in  the  duties,  labors  and  responsibilities 
of  the  Priesthood.  That  is  true  in  many  of  the  branches  in  the  various 
missions. 

In  Berlin  I  had  the  pleasure  of  visiting  three  branch  meetings  one 
Sunday  evening,  and  of  partaking  of  the  fine  spirit.  There  were  men 
there  who  were  called  as  a  district  presidency — local  men  who  have  be- 
come established  in  the  Church — and  they  are  an  upstanding,  fine  quality 
of  men. 

In  Belgium,  about  which  President  Ursenbach  has  spoken,  where 
my  first  missionary  labors  were  begun  thirty-nine  years  ago  in  1899,  to- 
day they  have  three  pleasant,  suitable  meeting  houses ;  and  they  have  a 
district  presidency  and  the  presidency  of  each  branch  composed  of  local 
men,  all  of  whom  are  measuring  up  in  a  fine  way.  I  was  greatly  delight- 
ed to  see  the  caliber  and  quality  of  these  men  who  are  doing  the  work. 
They  are  fulfilling  the  responsibility  splendidly. 

GENERAL  CONDITIONS  IN  EUROPE 

The  conditions,  of  course,  as  you  realize,  in  Europe  are  variable.  In 
some  of  the  nations  there  is  perfect  peace.  The  people  are  going  about 
their  business  contentedly.  Generally  speaking,  the  agricultural,  indus- 
trial and  economic  conditions  are  rather  favorable.  While,  of  course, 
there  is  considerable  unemployment  in  most  of  the  nations,  still  they  are 
providing  ways  and  means  for  those  who  are  unemployed.  Relief  is 
generally  handled  entirely  through  Government  sources. 

Holland  and  Denmark  are  exporting  extensively  food  and  dairy  pro- 
ducts. Czechoslovakia  has  a  variety  of  manufactures.  The  Czechs  are 
called  the  "Yankees  of  Europe."  Belgium  has  probably  the  greatest 
variety  and  extent  of  manufactures  of  any  country  in  Europe.  Switzer- 
land has  made  remarkable  hydro-electrical  developments. 

In  Sweden,  particularly,  I  may  say  that  conditions  look  very  satis- 
factory and  prosperous,  from  an  economic  standpoint.  The  country  of 
Sweden  is  being  largely  developed  hydro-electrically  from  the  extensive 
facilities  available  there.  All  of  the  railroads  are  operated  electrically. 
They  have  a  great  resource  in  the  fine  quality  of  iron  that  is  to  be  found 
in  that  country.  Stainless  steel  is  being  manufactured  in  large  quantities. 
They  have  developed,  with  very  great  success,  both  producer  and  con- 
sumer cooperatives,  which  are  beneficial  to  the  people  generally.  Their 
managed  currency  system  has  helped  to  stabilize  prices. 

In  Germany  the  people  are  actively  engaged,  under  the  direction  of 
the  German  government,  in  various  activities.  Of  course,  a  great  deal 
of  work  is  done  in  the  service  camps.   All  are  occupied  and  busy. 

TWO  MAJOR  INFLUENCES  AT  WORK 

In  visiting  Europe  and  reflecting  upon  conditions  there  and  else- 
where, I  am  reminded  of  the  fact  that  there  are  two  major  influences  at 


98  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  8  Second  Day 

work  in  the  world  of  men.  They  are  the  influences  of  Good  and  Evil. 
They  are  diametrically  opposite  in  character.  The  one  is  characterized 
in  the  highest  degree  by  righteousness,  justice,  unselfishness,  kindliness, 
love  and  peace.  The  other  is  evidenced  by  greed,  selfishness,  hatred, 
strife  and  lust  of  power.  The  first  is  personified  by  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  the  second  by  the  adversary  of  mankind.  Under  present  condi- 
tions among  mankind,  the  latter  influence  is  more  in  evidence.  As  the 
Lord  declared  by  revelation :  "Satan  is  abroad  in  the  land,  and  he  goeth 
forth  deceiving  the  nations."  (D.  &  C.  52 :14.)  When  Jesus  was  finish- 
ing his  earthly  minstry,  he  said :  "Hereafter  I  will  not  talk  much  with 
you ;  for  the  prince  of  this  world  cometh,  and  hath  nothing  in  me."  (John 
14:30.)  Those  two  influences  are  manifest  in  the  conditions  which  pre- 
vail in  government,  in  industry,  in  business  and  in  religion. 

TEMPTATIONS  OF  THE  SAVIOR 

You  remember  the  temptations  which  the  Savior  encountered  at  the 
hands  of  the  adversary,  after  He  had  been  baptized  and  had  received  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  after  he  had  fasted  in  the  wilderness. 

And  when  he  had  fasted  forty  days  and  forty  nights,  he  was  after- 
ward an  hungered. 

And  when  the  tempter  came  to  him,  he  said :  If  thou  be  the  Son  of 
God.  command  that  these  stones  be  made  bread. 

But  he  answered  and  said,  it  is  written,  Man  shall  not  live  by  bread 
alone,  but  by  every  word  that  proceedeth  out  of  the  mouth  of  God. 

Then  the  devil  taketh  him  up  into  the  holy  city,  and  setteth  him  on  a 
pinnacle  of  the  temple, 

And  saith  unto  him,  If  thou  be  the  Son  of  God,  cast  thyself  down; 
for  it  is  written,  he  shall  give  his  angels  charge  concerning  thee ;  and  in 
their  hands  they  shall  bear  thee  up,  lest  at  any  time  thou  dash  thy  foot 
against  a  stone. 

Jesus  said  unto  him,  It  is  written  again,  Thou  shalt  not  tempt  the 
Lord  thy  God. 

And  then  the  last,  and  I  think  probably  the  greatest  temptation,  that 
which  comes  to  mankind  in  large  measure  today  and  throughout  the  ages, 
as  it  came  to  the  Savior : 

Again,  the  devil  taketh  him  up  into  an  exceeding  high  mountain,  and 
sheweth  him  all  the  kingdoms  of  the  world,  and  the  glory  of  them : 

And  saith  unto  him,  All  these  things  will  I  give  thee,  if  thou  wilt  fall 
down  and  worship  me. 

Then  saith  Jesus  unto  him,  Get  thee  hence,  Satan;  for  it  is  written, 
Thou  shalt  worship  the  Lord  thy  God,  and  him  only  shalt  thou  serve. 

Then  the  devil  leaveth  him,  and  behold,  angels  came  and  ministered 
unto  him. 

TEMPTATIONS  OF  MANKIND 

It  appears  to  me  that  these  same  temptations  are  being  placed  be- 
fore mankind  today ;  and  to  many  they  are  too  alluring  to  resist.  Essen- 
tially, they  are  the  temptations  of  the  appetities,  of  pride  and  vanity,  and 
of  the  lust  of  power.   When  men  and  women  give  themselves  over  to  be 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


99 


influenced  by  their  carnal  desires,  they  can  scarcely  overcome  the  influ- 
ence of  evil.  Yet,  every  human  being  has  within  himself  the  power  to 
walk  in  righteousness,  if  he  will  only  give  heed  to  the  upright  influence 
within  him.  All  mankind  have  within  them  a  spark  of  divinity.  We  are 
told  that  "the  spirit  of  Christ  giveth  light  to  every  man  that  cometh  into 
the  world."  Again,  "by  him,  and  through  him,  and  of  him,  the  worlds 
are  and  were  created,  and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and 
daughters  unto  God."  It  is  important  to  be  able  to  discern  between  right 
and  wrong,  and  between  good  and  evil.  The  observance  of  Gospel  princi- 
ples enables  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  truth,  which 
serves  as  a  guide  to  righteousness. 

HUMAN  CHARACTERISTICS 

Now,  it  has  been  remarked  here  that  one-third  of  the  hosts  of  heaven 
rebelled  against  the  Lord  and  stood  with  the  adversary,  in  the  pre-exis- 
tent  state ;  but  the  two-thirds  remaining  were  either  valiant  in  the  cause 
of  truth,  in  those  pre-existent  times,  or  they  were  neutral.  At  least  they 
did  not  rebel,  and  so,  all  are  heirs  to  this  earthly  existence.  Every  one 
of  us  inherits  something  of  the  characteristics  of  our  earthly  parents.  At 
the  same  time  we  inherit  something  of  the  divine  attributes.  We  have 
within  us  the  opportunity  to  choose  which  we  will  do,  which  qualities  we 
will  develop — the  positive,  splendid,  fine  qualities  of  righteousness,  jus- 
tice, love  and  kindliness,  or  the  negative,  degrading  qualities  of  greed  and 
lust  of  power.  We  should  learn  to  be  able  to  discern  and  select  these 
finer  qualities.  As  Latter-day  Saints,  it  is  our  opportunity  to  exemplify 
these  high  principles,  through  obedience  to  the  Gospel.  So  we  should 
overcome  greed  or  selfishness  or  the  spirit  of  domination,  and  thus  set 
the  example  to  our  fellowmen.  Then  we  can  put  forth  every  endeavor 
to  promote  these  same  principles  throughout  the  world,  and  thereby  strive 
for  peace  and  unity  among  men  and  nations. 

WHICH  INFLUENCE  WILL  PREVAIL 

Which  of  these  influences  will  triump  in  the  earth  ?  Shall  it  be  the 
spirit  of  justice  and  persuasion,  or  the  spirit  of  domination  and  force  ? 
Well,  for  the  present  the  latter,  but  eventually,  the  former  will  prevail. 
We  are  told,  in  a  revelation  given  by  the  Lord  in  1831 :  "The  hour  is  not 
yet,  but  is  nigh  at  hand,  when  peace  shall  be  taken  from  the  earth,  and 
the  devil  shall  have  power  over  his  own  dominion.  .  .  .  And  also  the  Lord 
shall  have  power  over  his  saints,  and  shall  reign  in  their  midst."  So  that 
war  is  constantly  in  the  air.  While  there  are  millions  of  people  in  Europe 
and  in  the  United  States  and  elsewhere  throughout  the  world,  who  have 
in  their  hearts  a  desire  for  peace,  and  who  exemplify,  in  some  measure, 
at  least,  the  qualities  of  righteousness  and  justice,  yet  there  are  those 
who  dominate  and  bring  about  dictatorships  such  as  we  see  in  Europe 
today  in  some  of  the  nations. 

•  While  the  German  people,  as  a  whole,  are  a  very  fine  people,  and 
love  peace,  yet  there  are  influences  there  which  are  stirring  them  up  to 


100  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  8  Second  Day 

promote  war  and  strife.  The  people  of  Czechoslovakia,  so  far  as  I  have 
been  able  to  observe  them,  are  people  who  love  peace ;  but  they  are  full 
of  courage  and  they  have  a  certain  pride  of  race  which  in  their  situation 
leads  them  on  to  be  prepared  to  defend  themselves,  if  necessary,  even  in 
case  of  war. 

\ 

OUR  PRIVILEGE  AS  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

What  is  our  privilege  as  Latter-day  Saints  ?  First,  to  exemplify  in 
our  lives  righteousness,  justice,  love  and  consideration  for  all  men.  Then 
to  practice  that  instruction  which  the  Savior  gave  to  his  Apostles :  "What- 
soever ye  would  that  men  should  do  to  you,  do  ye  even  so  to  them." 
Further,  to  encourage  our  fellowmen  everywhere  to  live  in  conformity 
with  these  principles,  and  thereby  promote  peace,  good  will  and  pros- 
perity. Finally,  to  seek  constantly  the  light  and  influence  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  which  leads  to  perfect  unity. 

Now,  as  men  bearing  the  Holy  Priesthood,  it  is  our  responsibility 
to  harmonize  our  lives  and  actions  with  these  instructions,  referred  to  by 
President  Grant  yesterday  morning,  that  "no  power  or  influence  can  or 
ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the  Priesthood,  only  by  persuasion, 
by  long-suffering,  by  gentleness  and  meekness,  by  love  unfeigned;  by 
kindness  and  pure  knowledge,  which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the  soul  with- 
out hypocrisy,  and  without  guile.  .  .  .  Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  chari- 
ty towards  all  men,  and  to  the  household  of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish 
thy  thoughts  unceasingly;  then  shall  thy  confidence  wax  strong  in  the 
presence  of  God ;  and  the  doctrine  of  the  priesthood  shall  distil  upon  thy 
soul  as  the  dews  from  heaven." 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  walk  humbly,  to  deal  justly,  and  to  love 
mercy,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  PRESTON  NIBLEY 

President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

Brother  Merrill  remarked  that  each  one  who  comes  up  here  to  speak 
has  something  thought  out  and  prepared.  I  have  been  thinking  pretty 
hard  for  two  days,  and  I  will  have  to  confess  that  when  I  stand  here  be- 
fore you,  whatever  I  have  thought  of  leaves  me. 

In  the  last  April  conference  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  ever  at- 
tended, April,  1844,  he  made  this  significant  remark : 

"I  have  received  instructions  from  the  Lord  that  from  henceforth, 
wherever  the  elders  of  Israel  shall  build  up  branches  and  churches  unto 
the  Lord  in  the  states,  there  shall  be  a  stake  of  Zion." 

These  words  have  been  my  inspiration  since  I  have  been  in  the  mis- 
sion field.  When  I  went  out  to  succeed  Brother  Joseph  Quinney,  Jr., 
twenty  months  ago,  I  found  a  great  many  branches  in  the  Northwestern 
States,  and  I  found  that  about  ninety  per  cent  of  the  people  out  there  had 
moved  into  that  section  from  Utah  and  Idaho,  and  that  they  were  pre- 
pared to  govern  themselves, 


ELDER  PRESTON  NIB  LEY 


101 


I  am  happy  that  the  President  of  the  Portland  Stake  is  here  on  the 
stand  today,  Brother  M.  L.  Bean.  The  Portland  Stake  was  organized 
out  of  our  mission  in  June,  under  the  direction  of  President  David  O. 
McKay  and  Brother  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  and  the  Seattle  Stake  was  or- 
ganized out  of  our  mission  in  July,  under  the  direction  of  our  honored 
President,  President  Grant,  and  Brother  Ballard. 

We  now  have  in  process  of  growth  probably  five  more  stakes  com- 
ing along  in  that  mission,  and  I  hope  we  can  fulfill  the  words  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  that  wherever  the  Elders  of  Israel  shall  build  up 
branches  unto  the  Lord,  there  shall  be  a  stake  of  Zion. 

We  continue  to  find  many  people  in  our  mission  who  have  not 
affiliated  with  the  Church  for  years,  and  during  the  twenty  months  that 
I  have  been  in  the  Northwest  we  have  located  forty-four  groups  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  numbering  all  the  way  from  ten  to  one  hundred,  in  forty-four 
different  cities,  where  we  have  organized  Sunday  Schools  and  branches. 
These  people  had  moved  out  in  to  that  section,  and  had  remained  dor- 
mant until  our  missionaries  found  them. 

I  want  to  say  that  your  missionaries  in  the  Northwestern  States 
Mission  are  very  fine  young  people.  As  far  as  I  know,  they  all  have  a 
testimony  of  the  truth  of  the  Gospel.  I  saw  some  figures  in  the  paper 
computing  the  cost  of  missionary  labor,  but  brethren  and  sisters,  although 
it  may  seem  hard  on  you  to  send  that  money  to  your  boys  and  girls,  I 
want  to  tell  you  that  it  is  money  well  spent,  because  they  come  home  from 
their  missions  with  a  sound,  solid  testimony  that  this  is  the  kingdom  of 
God,  and  that  the  work  they  are  engaged  in  is  the  truth. 

President  Brigham  Young  once  made  this  statement  regarding  a 
testimony : 

"The  world,  with  all  its  wisdom  and  power,  with  all  the  glory  of  its 
kings  and  potentates,  sinks  into  perfect  insignificance  compared  with  the 
simple,  unadorned  testimony  of  a  servant  of  God." 

I  glory  in  the  work  that  is  going  on  in  our  mission.  I  know  that  we 
are  building  up  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  I  know  that  these  troubles  Bro- 
ther Sylvester  Q.  Cannon  has  been  telling  about  will  all  be  overcome  by 
this  great  kingdom  as  it  grows  and  progresses.  To  that  point  I  want  to 
cite  you  a  statement  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  made  May  2nd,  1844 : 

"I  calculate  to  be  one  of  the  instruments  in  setting  up  the  kingdom 
of  Daniel  by  the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  I  intend  to  lay  a  foundation  that 
will  revolutionize  the  whole  world." 

And  in  the  same  sermon : 

"It  will  not  be  by  sword  or  by  gun  that  this  kingdom  will  roll  on.  The 
power  of  truth  is  such  that  all  nations  will  be  under  the  necessity  of  obey- 
ing the  Gospel." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  our  future  and  the  future  of  this  kingdom  is 
very  great.  Our  missionary  work  is  prospering,  and  everything  looks 
good,  and  we  are  all  happy  in  the  Northwest. 

May  God  bless  you,  Amen. 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  8  Second  Day 

ELDER  EL  RAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

President  of  the  Texas  Mission 

I  pray,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  our  Heavenly  Father  may  con- 
descend to  inspire  me  for  the  few  minutes  that  I  occupy  here,  that  I  may 
say  something  that  will  be  worthy  of  your  valuable  time. 

I  am  thankful  that  I  was  endowed  with  the  power  to  appreciate  and 
be  moved  by  good  music.  I  want  to  commend  those  who  have  offered 
music  during  these  sessions  of  conference ;  those  Singing  Mothers  the 
other  day,  the  choir  from  Evanston,  and  these  young  people  from 
Moroni.  I  have  always  been  proud  of  the  fact  that  I  was  born  in  San- 
pete County,  and  I  thrill  whenever  any  one  from  Sanpete  County  pro- 
duces something  worth  while.  I  am  proud  of  these  young  people  behind 
me. 

I  am  happy  to  report  that  your  boys  and  girls  in  the  Texas  Mission 
are  at  this  time  well  and  happy,  that  their  work  seems  to  become  more 
efficient  and  more  effective  from  day  to  day.  They  have  been  instru- 
ments in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  in  preparing  more  than  twice  as  many 
converts  for  baptism  this  year  as  was  the  case  in  the  same  period  of  time 
last  year.  We  are  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  his  blessings  in  our  behalf, 
and  we  feel  that  he  is  indeed  blessing  us  in  our  work  in  that  mission. 

I  want  to  pay  tribute  to  you  mothers  and  you  fathers  who  are  so 
anxious  that  your  boys  and  girls  serve  the  Lord  in  honor;  so  anxious 
that  they  diligently  go  about  their  work  from  day  to  day ;  and  you  wives 
— for  we  have  a  few  Elders  who  are  husbands  of  wives  that  were  left  at 
home.  We  have  one  very  efficient  man,  nearly  seventy  years  of  age.  He 
is  there  on  a  two-year  mission.  He  reported  in  conference  not  long  ago 
that  at  one  time  he  felt  a  little  bit  blue,  and  wrote  home  to  his  wife  and 
said :  "Mother,  I  believe  I  am  a  little  lonesome  tonight."  In  a  few  days  he 
got  word  back,  a  brief  letter  saying :  "Dad,  if  you  are  lonesome  you  had 
better  get  to  work."  I  want  to  meet  that  wife  of  that  fine  man.  She  is  a 
champion. 

We  find  that  thinking  people  are  becoming  intensely  interested  in 
the  things  that  our  Church  is  doing,  and  in  the  doctrine  that  it  promul- 
gates. I  am  happy  that  we  are  able  to  contact  people  of  concern,  people 
in  positions  of  responsibility,  of  leadership,  executives,  professional  men, 
who  are  anxious  to  learn  more  of  what  we  are  doing  here. 

The  broadcasts  that  have  come  from  this  building  have  done  a  great 
deal  to  break  down  prejudice,  as  you  have  already  been  told. 

People  want  to  know  how  it  is  that  our  Church  has  been  able,  in 
such  a  comparatively  short  period  of  time,  to  do  the  things  that  it  has 
done.  "Why  is  it,"  they  ask,  "that  you  Mormon  people  seem  so  confi- 
dent, seem  to  be  so  undisturbed  ?  What  is  wrong  with  my  religion  ?"  My 
brothers  and  sisters,  the  answer  is  simple.  We  are  guided  by  the  light  of 
the  restored  Gospel.  You  and  I  have  the  blessing  and  the  privilege  of 
hearkening  to  the  counsels  and  admonitions  and  advice  of  the  prophet  of 
God  and  of  his  associates.  We  have  inspired  leaders  with  us  today,  just 


ELDER  EL  RAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN  103 


as  Christ's  church  has  always  had.  We  believe  that  the  Lord  meant  what 
he  said  when  he  declared  that,  "Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do  nothing  but 
he  revealeth  his  secret  unto  his  servants,  the  prophets."  It  seems  to  me 
that  unless  the  prophet  of  God  is  on  earth  today,  His  Church  cannot  be, 
for  in  all  dispensations  of  time  he  has  used  his  servants,  the  prophets,  to 
carry  on  his  work. 

I  am  proud  to  belong  to  a  church  and  to  be  actively  engaged  in  a 
church  which  is  patterned  after  the  Church  of  Christ  in  all  dispensa- 
tions when  it  has  been  upon  the  earth.  We  think  sometimes  it  would 
have  been  wonderful  to  have  walked  with  Peter,  and  to  have  preached 
alongside  of  Paul,  and  to  have  been  built  up  by  their  great  spirit  and 
their  great  testimony ;  but  I  rejoice  in  the  fact  that  we  have  that  privilege 
just  as  surely  today  as  we  would  have  had,  had  we  been  with  them  in 
those  days. 

We  have  received  counsel  and  have  been  advised  today  and  yester- 
day by  the  servants  of  God.  I  am  glad  that  I  can  say  that  I  am  in  whole- 
hearted support  of  that  admonition  and  those  counsels.  "Where  there 
is  no  vision,"  we  are  told,  "the  people  perish,  but  he  that  keepeth  the  law, 
happy  is  he." 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  we  should  take  that  sound  advice  and  put 
it  into  our  lives.  After  what  we  have  heard  today  I  think  we  would  be 
much  like  the  man,  as  some  one  put  it :  "He  who  learns  and  learns,  and 
never  acts  upon  what  he  knows,  is  like  the  man  who  plows  and  plows 
and  never  sows."  We  would  be  foolish  indeed,  we  are  deceiving  our- 
selves, if  we  know  these  things  to  be  true,  if  we  know  that  this  admoni- 
tion and  this  counsel  are  of  worth  and  are  the  means  of  our  salvation,  if 
we  leave  this  building  not  having  determined  in  our  own  minds  to  hearken 
unto  them. 

Some  one  said :  "Why  is  it  that  we  need  to  be  told  to  repent  con- 
tinually?" There  is  only  one  answer,  and  that  is  that  we  are  found  in 
too  much  sin  and  waywardness. 

The  belief  in  eternal  progression  of  the  individual  is  a  thing  which 
urges  Latter-day  Saints  (who  are  true  Latter-day  Saints)  to  strive  up- 
ward and  onward  at  all  times.  The  true  Latter-day  Saint  knows  that 
there  is  only  one  way  to  salvation.  He  knows  that  "there  is  a  law,  irre- 
vocably decreed  in  heaven  before  the  foundations  of  this  world,  up- 
on which  all  blessings  are  predicated,  and  when  we  obtain  any  blessing 
from  God  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law  upon  which  it  is  predicated,"  and 
we  cannot  get  those  blessings  in  any  other  way. 

They  ask  us  why  we  are  so  undisturbed.  That  is  the  reason.  We 
have  the  light  of  the  Gospel,  and  we  believe  those  things.  Every  Latter- 
day  Saint  believes  that  this  is  the  time  to  prepare  to  meet  his  God.  He 
believes  that  we  are  now  in  eternity.  He  knows  that  we  don't  have  to 
wait  until  death  and  the  resurrection,  to  enter  eternity ;  that  we  are  now 
on  that  great  long  road,  preparing  ourselves  to  meet  our  God.  He  be- 
lieves, as  Paul  said,  that  "Ye  are  the  temple  of  God,  and  the  Spirit  of 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  9  Third  Dm} 

God  dwelleth  in  you.  If  any  man  defile  the  temple  of  God,  him  shall 
God  destroy."  And  he  knows,  as  Nephi  promised : 

"But,  behold,  the  righteous,  the  saints  of  the  Holy  One  of  Israel, 
they  who  believed  in  the  Holy  One  of  Israel,  they  who  have  endured 
the  crosses  of  the  world,  and  despised  the  shame  of  it,  they  shall  inherit 
the  kingdom  of  God,  which  was  prepared  for  them  from  the  foundation 
of  the  world,  and  their  joy  shall  be  full  forever." 

The  answer  is  simple,  as  to  why  the  Latter-day  Saints  seem  undis- 
turbed in  times  like  these. 

May  God  bless  you  and  me  to  rise  to  the  occasion  and  to  honor  the 
Priesthood,  and  to  honor  the  Church,  and  to  honor  and  love  these  wonder- 
ful men  who  are  so  inspired  to  lead  us,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus, 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

There  is  one  thing  I  want  to  say,  and  that  is,  do  not  forget  to  ob- 
serve the  Sabbath  day  and  keep  it  holy. 

Once  more  I  express  my  appreciation  of  the  singing  that  we  have 
had  here  today,  and  also  for  the  marvelous  audience  at  the  Elijah  oratorio 
last  night. 


The  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "Beside  Still  Waters,"  (Hamblen). 
Elder  M.  L.  Bean,  President  of  the  Portland  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday,  October  9  at  10  o'clock. 

THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Sunday  rnorning,  October  9. 

Every  seat  and  available  space  in  the  great  Tabernacle  auditorium 
and  galleries  was  occupied  far  in  advance  of  the  time  to  open  the  fifth 
session  of  the  Conference.  In  addition,  thousands  of  people  who  could 
not  find  accommodation  in  the  Tabernacle  congregated  in  the  large  Assem- 
bly Hall  immediately  south  of  the  Tabernacle,  and  on  the  Tabernacle 
grounds,  where  they  listened,  by  means  of  amplifying  equipment  that 
had  been  installed,  to  the  Conference  proceedings  as  they  were  broadcast 
from  the  Tabernacle. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant,  who  presided,  called  the  meeting  to  order 
promptly  at  10  o'clock.  He  announced  that  the.  Tabernacle  Choir  with 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting,  would  furnish  the  musical  numbers 
for  this  session,  and  that  the  Choir  and  congregation  would  sing  as  the 
opening  number,  "How  Firm  a  Foundation." 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn,  the  opening  prayer  was  offered  \>y 
Elder  Alexander  Brown,  President  of  the  Seattle  Stake. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


105 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

WORLD  WAR  BROUGHT  HOPE 

Twenty-one  years  ago  our  fathers,  brothers  and  sons  were  enlisting 
in  the  great  struggle  of  the  World  War ;  they  were  responding  to  the 
appeal  that  we  were  going  to  make  the  world  safe  for  democracy,  and  we 
were  led  to  hope  and  believe  that  it  was  the  last  great  war,  and  the  war 
to  end  war. 

When  the  war  was  over  we  saw  nation  after  nation  abandon  their 
monarchial  forms  of  government  and  become  republics,  patterned  after 
this  nation,  and  our  hearts  were  full  of  joy  at  the  prospect  that  at  last 
democracy  and  peace  were  going  to  reign. 

QUICK  RETURN  TO  WORSE  CONDITIONS 

Since  then  we  have  been  greatly  disturbed  to  see  nation  after  nation 
abandon  its  democracy  and  go  back  to  a  condition  some  of  us  think  worse  ' 
than  the  condition  under  the  czars,  the  kaisers,  and  the  rulers,  into  a 
dictatorship.  Today  we  witness  the  nations  of  the  earth  spending  more 
money  than  in  any  other  time  in  their  history  in  building  equipment  upon 
the  sea  and  the  land  for  future  wars.  It  is  a  sad  picture,  and  yet  I  sup- 
pose that  our  wish  was  father  to  our  thought,  and  we  had  hoped  to  see 
the  end  of  the  struggle  and  strife  in  this  world. 

GOSPEL  ALONE  CAN  BRING  PEACE 

But  the  Lord  knew  that  there  could  be  no  peace  only  upon  certain 
principles;  peace  could  not  come  through  treaties  filled  with  hatred, 
malice,  greed,  and  selfishness.  Peace  could  not  come  through  the  might 
of  armies,  it  can  only  come  in  one  way.  He  offered  that  way  one  hundred 
years  ago  to  the  world,  and  more  than  sixty  thousand  missionaries  of  the 
Church  have  carried  the  message  to  the  nations  of  the  earth,  offering 
them  peace  through  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  makes  for 
genuine  real  brotherhood. 

The  Lord  knew  there  would  be  only  a  few  who  would  accept  that 
message.  The  majority  would  reject  it.  He  provided  for  the  few  a 
refuge  of  peace;  but  so  far  as  the  world  is  concerned  he  said — (I  am 
reading  from  the  1st  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants)  : 

And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  O  inhabitants  of  the  earth :  I  the 
Lord  am  willing  to  make  these  things  known  unto  all  flesh ; 

For  I  am  no  respecter  of  persons,  and  will  that  all  men  shall  know 
that  the  day  speedily  cometh;  the  hour  is  not  yet,  but  is  nigh  at  hand, 
when  peace  shall  be  taken  from  the  earth,  and  the  devil  shall  have  power 
over  his  own  dominion. 

And  also  the  Lord  shall  have  power  over  his  saints,  and  shall  reign 
in  their  midst. 

Peace  taken  from  the  earth,  and  the  devil  having  power  oyer  his 
dominion.  During  the  last  one  hundred  years,  or  since  these  words  were 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  9  Third  Day 

spoken,  more  light  and  knowledge  has  come  into  the  world  in  the  realm 
of  science,  through  the  laboratory,  and  otherwise,  than  in  all  the  ages 
that  have  preceded  it,  and  if  this  were  all  used  for  the  alleviation  of 
human  suffering,  peace  and  prosperity  could  be  here,  and  poverty 
abolished. 

But  when  we  see  men  and  nations  spending  their  wealth  to  use  the 
gas  engine,  the  laboratory,  the  air  plane,  as  means  of  human  destruction, 
surely  the  devil  has  seized  the  blessings  and  privileges  the  Almighty  in- 
tended to  use  to  bring  about  peace,  and  is  using  them  to  destroy  that 
which  he  presently  shall  lose  the  right  to  rule  over.  If  the  devil  is  not 
in  the  character  of  warfare  that  goes  over  the  front  line  trenches,  swoops 
down  upon  the  poor  helpless  women  and  children,  drops  its  deadly  bombs 
and.  assassinates  them,  then  I  do  not  know  anything  that  has  ever  hap- 
pened in  this  world  that  is  so  like  the  work  of  the  devil  as  that.  He  is 
ruling  in  the  midst  of  men. 

But  it  is  not  a  picture  that  we  need  to  be  discouraged  with.  Hope 
is  only  to  be  deferred,  for  the  promises  shall  be  realized. 

PERILS  TO  OUR  COUNTRY  WILL  COME  FROM  WITHIN 

I  read  again  another  word  of  warning,  this  from  the  45th  Section 
of  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  wherein  the  Lord  said,  con- 
cerning this  nation  or  land  of  America,  (reading  from  the  68th  and  69th 
verses)  : 

And  it  shall  come  to  pass  among  the  wicked,  that  every  man  that 
will  not  take  his  sword  against  his  neighbor  must  needs  flee  unto  Zion 
for  safety. 

And  there  shall  be  gathered  unto  it  out  of  every  nation  under  heaven ; 
and  it  shall  be  the  only  people  that  shall  not  be  at  war  one  with  another. 

Thank  the  Lord  for  that  promise.  I  am  not  afraid  of  any  foreign 
foe  disturbing  this  nation.  Our  perils  will  all  come  from  within.  It 
is  true  the  Prophet  saw  even  the  Constitution  hanging  as  by  a  thread, 
but,  thank  the  Lord,  he  never  saw  the  thread  break.  He  saw  this  people 
play  a  conspicuous  part,  to  be  a  balance  of  power  with  others  to  preserve 
it.  For  after  all,  it  is  destined,  according  to  the  word  of  the  Lord,  to 
become  the  savior  and  blessing  of  all  flesh,  not  only  the  peoples  of  the 
United  States.  And  after  the  experiments  with  dictatorships  and  other 
methods,  they  will,  at  last,  when  they  have  learned  their  lesson  and  are 
prepared  for  it,  be  willing  to  receive  the  Lord's  offering,  after  much 
suffering. 

They  could  have  saved  themselves  all  this,  for  if  all  the  nations  of 
the  earth  had  received  the  message  of  the  Gospel,  as  your  fathers  did 
who  came  from  those  foreign  nations,  would  there  be  peace  in  the 
world?  Yes.  If  the  spirit  that  is  in  the  hearts  of  you  Germans,  you 
Scandinavians,  you  English,  you  Scotch,  who  are  irj  this  Church,  were 
ip  the  hearts  of  all  your  people  living  in  these  foreign  lands  today,  there 
could  not  be  war.  There  would  be  brotherhood  and  there  WQuld  be 
peace. 

I  am,  I  say,  therefore  disturbed  only  aver  the  problems,  that,  may 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


107 


arise  here  with  us.  You  students  of  history  know  well  that  the  adverse 
circumstances,  the  poverty,  the  want,  the  unemployment  and  the  deple- 
tion of  the  value  of  the  currency  of  the  various  European  nations  laid 
the  foundation  for  dictatorships;  unknown  dictators  arose  who  offered 
security  against  want,  against  poverty,  against  need,  and  like  drowning 
men  grasping  at  straws,  the  nations  of  the  earth  accepted  the  proffer,  and 
sold  their  liberties  for  bread. 

That  is  not  the  spirit  of  one  of  the  founders  of  this  republic  who  said : 
"Give  me  liberty  or  give  me  death."  Liberty,  one  of  the  most  precious 
things,  must  be  preserved.  I  have  said  in  many  places  to  our  Latter-day 
Saint  brethren  and  sisters  who  are  converts  from  abroad:  "I  cannot 
blame  you  for  being  proud  of  your  English  ancestry,  your  Scotch  ances- 
try, or  your  German  ancestry,  but  when  you  joined  this  Church  and 
came  to  America  you  should  have  kissed  that  all  goodbye,  and  it  is  not 
my  business  to  glorify  the  dictators  who  now  reign,  no  matter  how  good 
I  may  think  their  services  are  to  that  nation  from  which  I  came ;  it  is 
not  my  business  to  glorify  them,  but  to  become  loyal  to  the  government 
of  the  nation  in  which  I  live."  I  hope  we  shall  not  find  any  Latter-day 
Saint  members  glorifying  the  conditions  that  are  in  their  Old  World 
homes. 

PROMISES  MADE  BY  THE  LORD  REGARDING  ZION 

Again  the  Lord  said,  in  the  115th  Section  of  the  book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  that  he  had  provided  for  the  security  of  the  membership 
of  the  Church  even  in  this  land.   I  read  as  follows : 

The  gathering  together  upon  the  land  of  Zion,  and  upon  her  stakes, 
may.be  for  a  defense,  and  for  a  refuge  from  the  storm,  and  from  wrath 
when  it  shall  be  poured  out  without  mixture  upon  the  whole  earth. 

Here  is  the  place  of  refuge — America.  When  I  read  the  story 
last  week  of  the  people  leaving  London,  and  Paris  to  go  into  the  rural 
districts,  digging  trenches  on  their  front  lawns,  and  gas  chambers  being 
built  in  every  home,  everybody  being  prepared  to  put  on  gas  masks 
suddenly,  as  in  a  few  hours  these  cities  might  have  been  engulfed  in  a 
terrible  raid  such  as  modern  war  provides,  I  said :  "Thank  God  for 
the  Atlantic  and  Pacific  Oceans  that  separate  us,  (at  least  from  the 
immediate  danger,)  from  these  perils.  There  is  no  place  on  earth  so 
secure  as  in  these  United  States,  and  it  is  the  business  of  every  Latter- 
day  Saint  to  be  loyal  to  this  government. 

That  is  why  the  Church  is  undertaking  this  relief  program,  to 
win  everybody  off  from  the  back  of  the  Government,  and  off  from  the 
back  of  the  State,  who  can  stand  on  his  own  feet.  Many,  of  you  aged 
people  may  feel  somewhat  offended  that  you  have  been  asked  if  you  can 
support  yourselves  and  not  be  a  burden  upon  the  State  or  the  Nation, 
for  we  can  lie  down  upon  our  Government  to  the  extent  that  we  may 
imperil  its  credit  and  produce  the  very  conditions  that  would  bring  the 
same  revolutions  and  the  same  troubles  that  engulf  the  Old  World. 
God  bless  us  that  we  may  not  come  to  that  day,  and  Latter-day  Saints, 
show  the  way ! 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  9  Third  Day 

There  is  another  message  found  in  the  103rd  Section  of  the  book 
of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  which  was  given  in  the  darkest  hour  of  the 
Church,  at  a  time  when  the  Saints  had  been  exiled  from  Missouri. 
They  were  in  dire  distress,  many  had  turned  away,  and  then  the  Lord 
said : 

Verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  I  have  decreed  a  decree  which  my  people 
shall  realize — ■ 

How  wonderful  the  promise !  It  is  all  conditional.  I  want  to  focus 
your  attention  upon  the  conditions : 

I  have  decreed  a  decree  which  my  people  shall  realize,  inasmuch  as 
they  hearken  from  this  very  hour  unto  the  counsel  which  I,  the  Lord  their 
God,  shall  give  unto  them. 

Behold  they  shall,  for  I  have  decreed  it,  begin  to  prevail  against  mine 
enemies  from  this  very  hour. 

And  by  hearkening  to  observe  all  the  words  which  I,  the  Lord  their 
God,  shall  speak  unto  them,  they  shall  never  cease  to  prevail  until  the 
kingdoms  of  the  world  are  subdued  under  my  feet,  and  the  earth  is  given 
unto  the  saints,  to  possess  it  forever  and  ever. 

THE  LORD'S  PLAN  MUST  BE  FOLLOWED 

These  conditions  we  must  comply  with ;  we  must  adhere  to  the 
appeals  that  have  been  made  during  this  conference ;  we  must  adhere  to 
the  word  of  the  Lord  as  given  to  this  people,  to  observe  to  keep  the 
commandments,  to  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  You  young  people,  we 
are  not  asking  you  to  give  up  your  tobacco,  your  liquor,  and  your  other 
evil  practices,  immorality,  just  to  punish  you  or  deny  you  what  you 
think  are  privileges  you  ought  to  have.  We  see  your  destiny,  but  we 
know  you  cannot  go  forward  to  that  destiny,  to  carry  the  work  of  the 
Almighty  to  the  triumphant  victory  over  the  nations  of  the  earth,  unless 
you  adhere  to  the  Lord's  plan.  If  you  do  subscribe  to  it,  if  you  do  pay 
your  tithes  and  offerings,  if  you  do  adhere  to  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
if  you  adhere  in  loyalty  to  this  Church,  there  is  no  power  on  earth  nor 
in  hell  that  can  stop  this  people  from  marching  on  to  their  glorious 
destiny,  to  be  the  light  of  the  world,  and  to  win  the  world  ultimately  to 
Christ. 

When  that  day  comes — for  only  through  him  can  peace  come — 
then  will  swords  be  beaten  into  plowshares,  and  spears  into  pruning- 
hooks.  God  help  us  to  realize  our  tremendous  responsibility,  not  only 
for  ourselves  and  the  Church,  but  for  the  whole  world,  and  for  the 
kingdom  of  the  Redeemer  that  shall  be  triumphant  in  the  earth.  God 
speed  that  glorious  day,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

During  the  period  from  10 :30  to  1 1 :00  a.  m.,  the  following  pro- 
gram of  choral  and  organ  music  was  presented  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
and  Organ  as  part  of  the  proceedings  of  the  General  Conference,  and 
was  broadcast  by  radio  throughout  the  United  States  and  Canada 
by  the  courtesy  of  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System,  originating  over 
Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City: 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN  109 

"Listen  to  the  Lamb"  (Nathaniel  Dett)   Choir 

"Erotik"  (Grieg)  Organ 

"A  Mighty  Fortress  is  our  God"  (Luther)   Choir 

"Deep  River"  (Arrangement  by  the  organist)   Organ 

"Behold  the  Great  Redeemer  Die"  (Careless)   -  Choir 

Hymn  selections   Organ 

"And  the  Glory  of  the  Lord"   Choir 


The  Choir  was  conducted  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  Organ  accom- 
paniments and  organ  solo  presentations  were  played  by  Frank  W.  Asper. 

CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR  BROADCAST 

Immediately  following  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast, 
the  following  program  was  presented  on  the  Columbia  Broadcasting 
System's  Church  of  the  Air  series : 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congregation  joined  in  singing  the 
hymn,  "High  on  the  Mountain  Top." 

The  male  voices  of  the  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "The  Morning  Breaks, 
The  Shadows  Flee." 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

"Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature." 
(Mark  16:15).   This  was  the  final  injunction  of  Jesus  the  Son  of  God. 

JOY  IN  MISSIONARY  WORK 

Sixty  thousand  Mormon  missionaries  have  heeded  this  admonition. 
And  nearly  sixty  thousand  have  declared  that  the  years  they  spent  in 
the  mission  field  were  the  happiest  years  of  their  lives. 

When  the  religion  of  a  people  evolves  full,  useful,  joyous  living, 
when  their  religious  philosophy  extends  unbounded  promise  of  eternal 
progression,  when  it  points  the  way  to  that  righteousness  which  fills 
men's  hearts  to  overflowing  with  joy  and  gratitude,  then  the  call  for 
them  to  share  these  experiences  with  their  fellowmen  is  regarded  as  a 
privilege  rather  than  as  a  duty  or  a  command. 

The  interest  of  the  members  of  the  Mormon  Church  in  missionary 
work,  from  its  very  inception  in  1830,  has  gone  forward  with  ever-in- 
creasing intensity  and  Church  members  are  continuing  to  give  to  this 
great  cause  a  surprisingly  large  percentage  of  both  their  time  and  their 
money. 

SACRIFICE  REQUIRED 

Approximately  2,000  young  men  and  women  are  maintained  in  the 
mission  field  all  the  time.  Their  parents,  their  friends  and  these  young 
people  themselves  pay  the  entire  cost  of  their  maintenance  while  they 


110  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  9  Third  Day 

labor  as  missionaries.  The  actual  necessary  cash  outlay  is  roughly  $1.50 
per  day  per  missionary.  This  means  a  daily  cash  expenditure  of 
$3,000.00,  or  an  annual  cost  in  cash  of  $1,095,000.00.  If  on  an  average 
the  missionary's  time  is  worth  $3.00  per  day,  this  means  an  additional 
sacrifice  of  $2,190,000.00  per  year,  or  a  total  annual  expenditure  of 
$3,285,000.00.  This  sum,  which  faithful  members  of  the  Church  con- 
tribute for  the  good  of  their  f ellowmen  must  be  acknowledged  as  a  mighty 
gift  from  a  Church  membership  of  but  750,000. 

The  sacrifices  made  are  often  very  great.  Widows,  in  many  cases, 
toil  to  maintain  their  sons  in  the  mission  field.  Many  young  women 
struggle  at  various  kinds  of  labor  in  order  to  help  pay  the  expenses  of 
their  brothers  or  their  young  husbands.  Priesthood  quorums,  wards  and 
other  Church  groups  contribute  to  missionary  funds  and  sometimes  the 
well-to-do  open  their  hearts  and  open  their  purses  and  maintain  as  mis- 
sionaries some  worthy  and  capable  Church  members  who  are  not  able 
financially  to  pay  their  own  way. 

There  is  scarcely  a  family  anywhere  in  the  Church  that  has  not 
borne,  and  borne  gladly,  a  share  of  this  burden.  Many  families  have  sent 
more  than  one  missionary  into  the  field  at  the  same  time,  and  many  have 
also  sent  one  after  another  until  all  their  sons  have  rendered  service.  One 
father  has  performed  four  different  missions  himself  and  his  wife  has 
performed  one.  Together  they  have  sent  all  of  their  five  sons  and  three 
of  their  four  daughters  into  the  mission  field  and  in  addition  they  have 
given  assistance  to  two  other  missionary  relatives.  This  family  therefore 
has  to  its  credit  the  equivalent  of  maintaining  one  missionary  in  the  field 
for  a  period  of  more  than  forty  years.  The  value  in  money  of  the  mis- 
sionary service  contributed  by  this  one  family  on  the  basis  above  explain- 
ed is  $65,700.00.  Such  sacrifices  made  by  people  who  never  have  had  a 
dollar  they  did  not  earn  by  honest  effort  tend  to  prove  that  when  people 
are  genuinely  converted  to  the  cause  of  the  Master  there  appears  to  be 
no  sacrifice  they  will  not  make  for  its  advancement. 

Those  having  in  their  souls  a  testimony  and  conviction  that  the 
original  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  restored  "in  these  last  days" 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  that  it  must  be  preached  in  all  the 
world  "to  every  nation  and  kindred  and  tongue  and  people,"  as  the  scrip- 
tures say,  feel  a  personal  responsibility  for  carrying  out  the  instructions 
of  Jesus  the  Son  of  God. 

LIVING  THE  GOSPEL  BRINGS  TESTIMONY 

Mormon  missionaries  devote  themselves  faithfully  to  a  study  of  the 
Bible  and  other  inspired  literature  and  they  struggle  to  live  in  accordance 
with  the  high  standards  and  ideals  set  forth  therein.  By  their  efforts  to 
teach  to  others  the  fundamentals  of  righteous  living,  they  strengthen  and 
fortify  themselves  in  their  own  high  ideals  and  standards.  The  teaching  of 
Christian  virtues  has  impressed  on  the  missionaries  themselves  the  im- 
portance and  the  value  of  living  in  conformity  with  the  ideals  and  stand- 
ards of  the  Church,  and  the  high  degree  of  spirituality  found  in  the  mis- 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


111 


sion  field  has  brought  into  their  hearts  a  satisfying  knowledge,  testimony 
and  certainty  concerning  the  restored  Gospel  message  which  only  the  light 
and  inspiration  of  Heaven  can  bring. 

Our  missionaries  have  been  humble  men  and  humble  women.  They 
have  not,  except  in  very  rare  instances,  been  trained  theological  scholars. 
Perhaps  their  conduct,  their  ideals  and  their  standards  of  living  have 
been  more  effective  in  some  cases  as  factors  of  conversion  than  have  the 
words  which  they  have  spoken.  The  simple,  straightforward  manner 
in  which  these  missionaries  live,  teach  and  preach  you  must  admit  is  the 
method  of  Christ  himself.  And  furthermore,  that  message  has  not 
changed.  The  Gospel  today  is  the  same  Gospel  which  the  Savior  taught. 
Being  the  truth  it  will  endure  unchanged  forever. 

BRIEF  REPORT  OF  EUROPEAN  MISSION 

The  European  Mission  of  the  Church,  whose  affairs  in  a  general  way 
I  have  directed  as  its  president  during  the  last  two  years,  consists  of 
twelve  separate  and  distinct  missions  which  are  located  in  sixteen  differ- 
ent nations  of  the  Eastern  Hemisphere.  The  geographical  area  it  covers 
is  bounded  by  and  includes  South  Africa  on  the  south,  Palestine  and 
Czechoslovakia  on  the  east,  Norway  on  the  north  and  Ireland  on  the  west. 
Each  of  these  twelve  different  missions  has  its  affairs  carefully  directed 
and  its  work  carefully  supervised  by  an  able  and  experienced  mission 
president  who  has  had  years  of  effective  training  in  the  different  branches 
of  Church  activity.  Mission  presidents  are  called  from  ordinary  pursuits 
and  give  three  or  more  years  of  service  without  compensation  other  than 
payment  of  mere  expenses. 

In  general  our  Elders  are  kindly  received  and  fairly  treated  in  all  of 
the  sixteen  different  countries  included  in  the  European  Mission.  Old  pre- 
judices have  largely  disappeared. 

Last  year  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  world-wide  head  of  the  Mor- 
mon Church,  visited  all  of  the  missions  in  the  European  Mission  except 
South  Africa  and  Palestine.  He  was  greeted  everywhere  by  the  people 
and  by  the  press  with  hearty  words  of  welcome.  Members  of  the  Church 
and  their  friends  came  out  in  large  numbers  to  see  and  to  hear  him. 

The  missionaries  live  in  accordance  with  that  great  fundamental 
teaching  and  practice  of  the  Church  appearing  in  our  twelfth  Article  of 
Faith,  namely:  "We  believe  in  being  subject  to  kings,  presidents,  rulers, 
and  magistrates,  in  obeying,  honoring,  and  sustaining  the  law."  They 
refrain  from  discussing  governments  or  governmental  policies  and  they 
are  all  instructed  positively  not  to  participate  in  the  politics  of  the  coun- 
tries where  they  labor.  They  are  sent  forth  to  give  purpose  to  living,  to 
improve  the  conditions  of  the  present  and  to  inspire  in  the  hearts  of  the 
people  hope  for  the  future. 

LIVES  OF  CONVERTS  TRANSFORMED 

The  Gospel  transforms  many  from  an  aimless  life  into  a  life  of  pur- 
pose ;  it  teaches  thrift  and  industry  to  those  who  are  poor ;  to  those  who. 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  9  Third  Day 

are  rich  it  brings  the  blessed  unselfishness  of  sharing ;  it  teaches  to  the 

indolent  the  gospel  of  work ;  it  brings  courage,  hope  and  ambition  into 
the  souls  of  those  who  are  cast  down ;  it  fills  the  heart  of  the  sinner  with 
the  glorious  gospel  of  repentance ;  it  brings  joy,  happiness  and  satisfaction 
into  the  hearts  of  men  and  women  by  instructing" them  how  to  live  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  unselfish  and  satisfying  ways  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

■  While  large  sums  have  been  expended  in  both  time  and  money  and 
great  sacrifices  have  been  made  to  maintain  our  many  missionaries  in 
their  fields  of  labor,  rich  and  rare  compensation  for  this  expenditure  has 
been  realized  again  and  again  in  many  different  ways.  The  great  spiritual 
development  and  uplift  these  Elders  have  received  has  brought  into  their 
souls,  and  into  the  lives  of  Saints  and  converts  also,  as  the  scriptures 
say,  that  "peace  of  God  which  passeth  all  understanding."    (Phil.  4:7.) 


BLESSINGS  OF  MISSIONARY  WORK  FAR  REACHING 

But  not  by  any  means  do  all  of  the  blessings  that  come  as  a  result  of 
missionary  effort  come  to  the  Elders  themselves,  to  the  Saints  in  the  mis- 
sion field  or  to  those  who  have  been  converted.  As  a  result  of  the  rich, 
broadening  and  deepening  experiences  missionaries  get  in  the  mission 
field,  the  homes  of  the  communities  which  send  them  forth  receive  from 
these  missionaries,  after  their  return,  the  advantage  and  benefit  of  the 
experience,  judgment,  richer  personalities,  culture  and  polish  which 
worldwide  travel  lends. 

Boys  from  the  country,  from  the  field,  and  from  the  herd  acquire 
that  education  and  refinement  which  extensive  travel  and  contact  with 
great  historic  centers  and  metropolitan  life  always  seem  to  bring.  And 
on  the  other  hand,  young  men  who  have  been  brought  up  in  the  city  are 
often  times  given  that  broadening  experience  and  training  which  those 
are  sure  to  get  who  participate  in  the  rigors  of  primitive  life  to  which 
many  missionaries  are  subjected.  It  is  certain  that  in  no  other  section 
of  the  country  is  the  percentage  so  great  of  those  who  have  traveled  and 
have  seen  the  world  as  in  Mormon  communities. 

While  enlarged  information,  experience  and  polish  are  important,  at 
the  same  time,  at  most,  these  are  but  secondary.  The  outstanding  feature 
of  missionary  work  is  the  great  exhilarating  spiritual  uplift,  inspiration 
and  ambition  which  it  brings,  combined  with  that  stabilized  character 
which  it  produces  in  the  manhood  and  womanhood  of  the  Church. 

Imagine  the  extent,  importance  and  effectiveness  of  this  missionary 
training  and  experience  when  we  have,  as  at  present,  missionaries  labor- 
ing in  Argentina,  Austria,  Belgium,  Brazil,  Canada,  Czechoslovakia,  Den- 
mark, France,  Germany,  Great  Britain,  Hawaii,  India,  Japan,  Mexico, 
The  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Norway,  Palestine,  Syria,  Samoa,  South 
Africa,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  Tahiti,  Tonga,  and  all  of  the  States  of  the 
United  States. 

These  workers  of  righteousness  scattered  as  they  thus  are  all  around 
the  world  learn  not  only  to  respect  the  many  different  kinds  and  classes 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


113 


of  people  with  whom  they  live  and  labor,  but  they  acquire  for  them  gen- 
uine admiration  and  affection  and  for  them  they  have  hearts  filled  with 
praise  and  commendation.  They  have  learned  that  great  fundamental 
principle  that  in  general  one  needs  only  to  know  his  neighbor  in  order  to 
like  him. 

Our  returned  missionaries  are  found  in  practically  every  large  city 
of  America,  yes,  in  every  section  of  the  nation.  With  their  deep  interest 
in  and  their  genuine  affection  for  humanity,  they  are  invariably  ambas- 
sadors of  good  will  from  the  various  countries  in  which  they  have  labored, 
and  they  therefore  tend  to  create  a  sympathetic  feeling  for  and  a  deep 
interest  in  the  various  people  with  whom,  as  missionaries,  they  became  so 
intimately  acquainted.  Thus  these  young  men  and  women  create  an  im- 
pression for  good.  They  play  an  important  part  in  influencing  public 
opinion.  Two-thirds  of  them  are  college  graduates  or  university  stu- 
dents. After  their  return,  many  of  them  take  front  rank  in  civic,  edu- 
cational and  religious  affairs.  Some  become  mayors  of  our  cities,  gov- 
ernors and  legislators  in  our  States,  judges  on  the  bench,  and  influential 
and  powerful  national  congressmen  and  senators.  They  hold  professor- 
ships in  our  seats  of  learning  and  become  distinguished  men  of  science. 
With  one  thousand  of  these  returning  annually  from  the  various  coun- 
tries of  the  world,  they  are  sure  to  wield  an  influence  that  will  be  an  im- 
portant factor  in  helping  advance  the  great  cause  of  good  will  among 
men  and  nations. 

PROPHECIES  BEING  FULFILLED 

It  is  the  belief  and  conviction  of  our  Church  that  as  a  result  of  our 
missionary  work  the  mountain  of  the  Lord's  House,  which  prophets  said 
anciently  was  to  be  established  in  the  top  of  the  mountains,  is  here  built. 
It  is  our  conviction  that  the  kingdom  spoken  of  by  Daniel  to  be  established 
by  the  God  of  Heaven,  which  is  never  to  be  destroyed  but  which  is  to 
stand  forever,  is  the  Church  here  established  in  these  modern  times,  "in 
these  last  days,"  under  the  direction  of  and  in  accordance  with  the  reve- 
lations given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

In  spite  of  the  fact  that  practically  every  nation  in  the  world  is  pre- 
paring for  war,  or  for  defense,  at  a  rate  and  at  a  cost  unknown  and  un- 
equaled  before  in  all  histroy,  it  is  our  conviction  that  the  last  days  are 
here  in  which,  as  the  prophets  say,  the  God  of  Jacob  is  to  judge  among 
many  nations  and  rebuke  strong  nations  afar  off ;  that  the  day  is  coming 
when  nations  are  to  beat  their  swords  into  plowshares  and  their  spears 
into  pruning  hooks,  when  nation  shall  not  lift  up  sword  against  nation  and 
when  nations  shall  not  learn  war  any  more,  "but  they  shall  sit  every  man 
under  his  vine  and  under  his  fig  tree ;  and  none  shall  make  them  afraid : 
for  the  mouth  of  the  Lord  of  hosts  hath  spoken  it."  (Micah  4 :4.) 

For  the  mighty  and  important  work  which  the  ancient  prophets  said 
would  come  to  pass  "in  these  last  days,"  it  is  our  conviction  that  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  will  pave  the  way,  and  that 
in  bringing  about  that  great  final  international  understanding,  that  peace 


114  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  9  Third  Day 

on  earth,  and  good  will  to  men  which  Christ  himself  came  to  bring,  the 

missionary  activities  of  the  Church  will  play  a  most  important  part. 

And  it  is  our  further  conviction  that  the  Kingdom  of  God  is  here 
established,  that  the  Gospel  will  be  preached  to  all  the  people  in  all  the 
world,  and  that  then  will  come  again  the  Lord  of  Lords,  the  King  of 
Kings,  the  Prince  of  Peace,  to  reign  as  King  forever  and  forever.  May 
we  do  well  our  part  to  speed  his  corning,  I  humbly  pray. 

(End  of  Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast) 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Do  What  is  Right." 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  wish  to  speak  for  solidarity  in  the  Church.  By  this  I  mean  simply, 
— standing  together, — all  striving  to  promote  the  common  cause.  I 
scarcely  need  point  out  the  results  of  unity.  They  are  many  and  they 
are  apparent.  I  will  name  but  two.  The  first  is  individual  and  collective 
happiness. 

FRIENDLY  TIES  IN  PRIESTHOOD 

Association  within  the  Church  is  of  such  a  nature  as  to  promote 
pure  friendship.  Next  to  family  ties,  the  bonds  of  the  Holy  Priesthood 
which  are  by  revelation  said  to  be  "stronger  than  the  cords  of  death," 
and  other  companionships  we  enjoy  in  the  Church,  knit  the  souls  of  men 
and  women  together  more  perfectly  than  do  any  other  relationships.  I 
have  known  a  man  to  travel  across  the  continent  to  renew  friendship  with 
a  missionary  companion  with  whom  he  had  spent  but  a  few  months 
in  the  service  of  the  Master.  Since  all  Church  service  is  cooperative,  we 
must  be  congenial  to  enjoy  it.  A  man  is  neither  happy  nor  effective  in 
the  cause  if  he  is  not  one  with  his  fellows.  The  Savior  said,  "Except  ye 
are  one,  ye  are  not  mine." 

A  COMMON  PURPOSE  NECESSARY 

Another  result  of  unity  is  efficiency  in  achievement.  Discord  and 
dissension  are  the  wrenches  thrown  in  the  machinery.  Concord  is  the  oil 
which  smooths  the  operation  of  the  plant  and  immensely  increases  the 
output.  A  careful  study  of  the  history  of  the  Church  will  disclose  the 
fact  that  while  it  has  suffered  tremendously  from  persecution  and  oppres- 
sion from  without,  yet  a  large  part  of  all  its  difficulties  has  been  attribut- 
able to  dissenters  and  traitors  within  its  own  ranks.  The  driving  of  the 
Saints,  particularly  from  Nauvoo,  the  revocation  of  the  Nauvoo  Charter 
and  even  the  martyrdom  itself  may  be  laid  largely  to  disaffection  and 
betrayal.  Perhaps  the  most  potent  enemies  of  God's  work  have  always 
been,  ostensibly  at  least,  within  it.  Internal  unity  is  indispensable  to 
success. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


115 


In  the  present  day  we  are  not  wont  to  look  for  enemies  and  traitors 
within  the  camp.  And  if  we  did  I  am  sure  we  would  not  find  them  as 
in  times  gone  by.  There  are  no  overt  acts  of  treachery,  for  which  we 
must  all  be  grateful.  But  can  we  feel  assured  that  there  are  not  other 
things,  of  less  gravity,  perhaps,  which  militate  against  the  unity  and 
common  purpose  of  our  people?  It  is  of  these  things  I  wish  to  speak. 
Undoubtedly  I  shall  not  be  able  to  enumerate  all  of  them  but  I  will  men- 
tion a  few  which  have  occurred  to  me. 

PRIVATE   INTERPRETATIONS   OF  DOCTRINE  HARMFUL 

First.  I  point  out  a  growing  tendency  toward  private  interpretation 
of  scripture  and  doctrine  and  this  I  do  not  regard  as  particularly  serious 
in  point  of  perverting  the  general  doctrines  of  the  Church.  It  is  with 
reference  to  the  status  of  the  individual  that  I  feel  concerned.  For 
instance,  I  hear  people,  young  and  old,  contend  that  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
does  not  prohibit  tea  and  coffee,  certain  commonly  sold  drugs  and  modern 
beer,  claiming  that  these  items  are  not  specifically  prescribed  in  the  89th 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  I  find  people,  also,  sometimes 
officers  in  the  Church,  attempting  to  justify  a  private  interpretation  of 
the  law  of  Tithing,  particularly  with  reference  to  a  deduction  of  debt, 
living  expenses,  losses  through  speculation  and  other  items  from  sal- 
aries and  personal  income  before  tithing  is  computed.  I  am  sure  there 
are  hundreds  attempting  to  persuade  themselves  that  going  to  picture 
shows,  playing  baseball  and  golf  and  participating  in  other  commercial- 
ized amusements  are  not  infraction  of  God's  law  commanding  that  we 
keep  the  Sabbath  holy.  There  are  people  in  the  Church,  far  too  many, 
who  are  at  variance  with  the  President  of  the  Church  and  his  associates, 
the  General  Authorities,  in  the  interpretation  of  our  Temple  ordinances 
and  ceremonies  and  some  of  their  requirements.  These  are  what  I  call 
private  interpretations  of  the  doctrines  of  the  Church  as  contra-distin- 
guished to  the  long  established  interpretations  of  these  items  by  the 
General  Authorities.  Perhaps  I  should  brand  these  variances  as  attempted 
justifications  of  individual  weaknesses,  but  I  do  not  wish  to  be  harsh 
or  inconsiderate  of  anyone  who  has  sincerely  convinced  himself  that  his 
own  interpretation  is  right. 

PRESIDENCY  INTERPRETERS  OF  GOD'S  LAWS 

Now  who  is  entitled  to  interpret  the  doctrine  of  the  Church, 
granting  that  some  items  are  susceptible  of  different  constructions?  I 
am  sure  that  upon  serious  reflection  there  is  no  real  difference  of  opin- 
ion on  this  question  among  the  members.  It  is  so  well  established  by 
the  revelations  which  we  have  received  and  the  practice  of  the  Church 
that  the  President  and  his  Counselors  are  invested  with  this  authority 
that  I  cannot  believe  any  member  will  seriously  dispute  it.  In  the 
language  of  the  revelation  they,  the  Presidency,  are  constituted  "a 
quorum  ....  to  receive  the  oracles  for  the  whole  Church."  They  are  the 
supreme  court  here  on  earth  in  the  interpretation  of  God's  law. 


116  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  9  Third  Day 

In  the  exercise  of  their  functions  and  delegated  powers  they  are 
controlled  by  a  constitution,  a  part  of  which  is  written  and  a  part  of 
which  is  not.  The  written  part  consists  in  authenticated  scripture, 
ancient  and  modern,  and  in  the  recorded  utterances  of  our  latter-day 
prophets.  The  unwritten  part  is  the  spirit  of  revelation  and  divine  in- 
spiration which  are  appertinent  to  their  calling. 

In  formulating  their  interpretations  and  decisions  they  always  con- 
fer with  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  who  by  revelation  are 
appointed  to  assist  and  act  with  them  in  the  government  of  the  Church. 
When,  therefore,  a  judgment  is  reached  and  proclaimed  by  these  officers 
it  becomes  binding  upon  all  members  of  the  Church,  individual  views 
to  the  contrary  notwithstanding.  God's  Kingdom  is  a  kingdom  of  law 
and  order.  He  is  the  Lawgiver  and  the  Supreme  Judge  but  he  has 
delegated  authority  and  conferred  the  keys  of  the  Kingdom  upon  these 
men  whom  he  has  chosen.  They  act  for  him  and,  thank  the  Lord,  we 
accept  them.    It  is  the  only  safe  thing  to  do. 

There  are  some,  perhaps  who  may  feel  that  it  is  subversive  of  in- 
dividual freedom  of  thought  and  expression  to  be  controlled  by  the 
interpretations  of  our  leaders.  I  wish  to  assure  them  that  any  feeling 
of  contraint  will  disappear  when  once  they  secure  the  genius  and  true 
spirit  of  this  work.  Our  unanimity  of  thought  and  action  does  not  arise, 
as  some  suppose,  from  duress  or  compulsion  in  any  form.  Our  accord 
comes  from  universal  agreement  with  righteous  principles  and  common 
response  to  the  operation  of  the  Spirit  of  our  Father.  It  is  actuated  by 
no  fear  except  one.  That  is  the  fear  of  offending  God,  the  Author  of 
our  work. 

THOUGHTLESS   CRITICISM  UNPROFITABLE 

Now  the  second  contributing  factor  which  I  would  mention  which 
militates  against  unity  in  the  Church  is  the  proneness  of  men  to  criticize 
and  condemn.  I  am  not  here  today  to  contend  that  everything  is  perfect. 
I  know  nothing  about  the  Church  that  is  perfect,  excepting  only  the  plan 
itself  which  is  God-given.  Things  that  men  do  will  never  be  perfect 
until  they  themselves  reach  the  perfection  of  Christ,  the  Perfect  One. 
I  suppose  none  of  us  realizes  his  own  imperfections,  at  least  not  to  their 
full  extent.  It  is  probably  salutary  to  be  told  of  them  occasionally.  We 
may  reform  if  we  are  told.  But  I  have  never  felt  that  much  good  came 
from  telling  others  of  my  weaknesses. 

President  Grant  is  one  of  the  most  democratic  men  ever  to  come  to 
the  Presidency.  Some  of  us  feel  that  his  office  is  too  open  and  that  he 
permits  too  many  impositions  upon  his  time  and  patience  for  the  good  of 
his  health.  I  believe  that  there  is  not  a  man  or  woman  in  the  Church, 
or  out  of  it  for  that  matter,  from  whom  he  would  not  courteously  re- 
ceive a  constructive  criticism  or  helpful  suggestion. 

With  such  a  disposition,  what  a  cowardly  and  mean  thing  it  is  for 
members  of  the  Church  to  attempt  criticism  behind  his  back  and  thus 
undermine  his  influence  and  reputation.    Fortunately  there  are  but  few 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


117 


who  are  so  mean.  I  do  believe,  however,  there  are  many  who  are 
thoughtless,  who  speak  lightly  and  carelessly  and  disrespectfully  of 
leaders  and  principles  and  sacred  phases  of  this  Church.  I  think  it  is 
a  shame  to  jest  about  sacred  things  and  sometimes  it  is  as  blasphemous 
as  taking  the  name  of  God  in  vain.  I  rebuke  those  who  do  it  and  I 
call  upon  them  to  stop  and  think.  If  they  will  but  think,  I  believe  they 
will  realize  the  incalculable  harm  they  do,  the  faith  they  destroy  and 
the  unhappiness  they  bring. 

I  cannot  pass  this  point  without  importuning  some  of  my  brethren 
to  stop  swearing.  No  man  can  love  God  and  damn  him  anymore  than  he 
can  love  his  wife  and  damn  her.  Think  again,  please.  Think  of  the 
utter  futility  of  this  vulgar  habit.  Think  of  its  effect  in  youth.  Men 
teach  boys  profanity.  It  is  not  congenital  with  the  race.  It  is  the  nature 
of  man  to  love  God  and  not  to  damn  him. 

This  proneness  to  criticism  and  careless  judgment  I  must  carry  a 
step  beyond  its  chief  victims, — the  authorities  and  officers  of  the  Church, 
to  the  relations  among  the  people  themselves.  Someone  has  said  that  the 
supreme  charity  of  the  world  consists  in  simple  obedience  to  the  divine 
command,  "Judge  not."  Certain  it  is  that  a  large  part  of  the  unhappiness 
of  the  world  results  from  inconsiderate  judgment.  Many  a  pillow  is 
wet  with  the  sobs  of  those  who  are  its  victims.  We  cannot  read  the  hearts 
of  man.  We  may  not  know  their  good  intentions.  We  often  judge  them 
only  by  their  failures,  and  we  are  unkind  enough  to  circulate  our  judg- 
ment in  the  form  of  rumors  and  gossip  and  thus  do  irreparable  damage. 
Every  man  who  is  a  man  prizes  his  good  name,  for,  as  the  immortal 
Shakespeare  said,  "He  who  steals  my  purse  steals  trash,  'twas  mine, 
'tis  his;  but  he  who  robs  me  of  my  good  name  filches  from  me  that 
which  enriches  not  himself  and  makes  me  poor,  indeed." 

God  grant  that  we,  the  disciples  of  the  Master,  who  bade  us  forgive 
all  men  and  love  even  our  enemies,  may  be' free  from  adding  to  the 
burdens  and  the  unhappiness  of  our  brethren  and  sisters  by  inconsiderate 
judgment. 

ATTENDANCE  AT  MEETINGS  BRINGS  UNITY 

I  wish  now  to  mention  the  third  and  last  factor  in  my  brief  sum- 
mary of  causes  contributing  to  disunity  within  the  Church.  It  is  the 
indifference  to  and  poor  attendance  in  the  regularly  established  meetings 
provided  for  the  people.  My  observation  has  taught  me,  and  I  believe 
all  will  agree,  that  no  person  can  regularly  go  to  the  meetings  of  the 
Church  and  mingle  with  his  brethren  and  sisters  without  catching  the 
spirit  of  the  work  and  developing  within  him  a  warmth  of  affection  and  a 
fervor  of  devotion  which  will  tend  to  make  him  one  with  his  fellows. 
The  sacrament  meeting  which  was  given  of  the  Lord  by  revelation  is 
designed  specifically  to  promote  unity.  We  are  even  admonished  not  to 
partake  of  the  sacrament  if  we  entertain  unkindly  feelings  in  our  hearts 
toward  others. 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  9  Third  Day 


TRUE  BROTHERHOOD  IN  QUORUMS 

The  quorum  meetings,  too,  in  this  respect  have  a  vital  purpose  to 
conserve.  A  quorum  is  three  things :  first,  a  class ;  second,  a  fraternity ; 
and  third,  a  service  unit.  Within  it  the  men  of  the  Priesthood  learn  of 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  establish  true  brotherhood,  and  carry  for- 
ward the  work  of  Christ.  It  is  a  God-given  association  from  which  they 
derive  more  of  lasting  advantage  than  from  any  other  fraternal  organ- 
ization in  our  society.  Its  prime  purpose  is  to  encourage  and  safeguard 
the  individual.  You  can't  tell  me  that  men  can  absent  themselves  from 
their  quorum  meetings  without  losing  something  vital  to  their  own  well 
being  and  that  of  the  Church  also. 

I  fear  we  have  some  men  who  have  received  the  Holy  Priesthood 
who  feel  themselves  too  big  and  too  important  to  associate  with  their 
brethren  in  the  quorum.  I  am  sorry  for  them.  They  are  making  a 
great  mistake.  For  it  is  they,  chiefly,  who  are  retarding  the  progress  of 
the  work  of  God.  I  am  certain  that  I  am  right  when  I  say  that  if  all  of 
the  men  of  the  Priesthood  would  be  loyal  to  their  quorums  the  work  of 
the  Church  would  be  accelerated  beyond  anything  we  have  ever  known. 

In  our  concept  of  the  Kingdom  of  God,  every  individual  shares 
responsibility.  We  have  no  priests  as  distinguished  from  the  laity.  We 
are  all  priests  in  the  kingdom,  that  is,  we  men  folk,  and  the  women,  too, 
are  priestesses  therein.  Every  member  either  helps  or  hinders.  There 
is  no  middle  ground. 

So  I  present  these  items  which  I  have  mentioned,- — private  and 
ofttimes  perverted  interpretations  of  our  doctrine,  ill-considered  criti- 
cism, and  non-attendance  upon  meetings  and  duties,  as  among  the  chief 
factors  contributing  to  disunion  within  the  Church.  In  so  doing  I  hope 
I  have  given  no  offense.  My  sole  purpose  has  been  to  assist  in  rectifying 
conditions  that  militate  against  our  success. 

UNITY  BRINGS  SUCCESS 

And  what  success  we  could  have  with  complete  unity  and  harmony 
in  the  Church !  How  effectively  could  we  demonstrate  the  efficacy  of 
applied  Christianity  if  all  our  people  stood  together  as  one  man  behind 
our  leaders !  When  we  consider  the  things  we  might  accomplish,  the 
impressions  that  we  might  make,  what  a  pity  it  seems  that  our  progress 
should  be  stayed  by  those  of  our  own  membership  who  are  not  one 
with  us  in  purpose  and  deed. 

I  know  that  to  many  it  seems  a  very  insignificant  thing  to  smoke 
cigarettes,  to  take  a  drink,  to  gamble  a  little,  to  swear  moderately,  and 
to  make  the  Sunday  a  holiday.  I  do  not  deem  it  my  province,  nor  is  it  my 
desire,  to  condemn  to  purgatory  those  who  are  guilty  of  such  infractions 
of  our  standards  but  I  do  appeal  to  them  with  all  the  fervor  of  my  soul 
to  stop  these  discordant  practices  and  come  in  line  with  the  great  proces- 
sion of  their  Church.  It  is  such  a  little  thing  to  endure  a  slight  depriva- 
tion in  personal  desire  or  appetite  as  compared  to  the  success  and  triumph 
of  a  mighty  cause  that  would  soon  envelope  the  whole  earth  if  we  were 
all  faithful  to  it. 


ELDER  WILLIAM  T.  TEW,  JR. 


119 


So  in  kindness  I  plead  for  solidarity,  union,  and  love  in  the  Church 
of  Christ.  God  is  forgiving.  We  all  have  need  of  repentance.  No 
one  has  strayed  so  far  that  he  cannot  turn  back.  It  is  a  strong  man  who 
will  acknowledge  his  mistakes.  We  need  each  other's  help  and  we  need 
God's  help.  With  unity  and  his  aid  we  can  bless  this  troubled  world 
as  it  never  has  been  blessed  before.  May  he  grant  us  this  high  privilege, 
I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen.  • 

ELDER  WILLIAM  T.  TEW,  JR. 

President  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission 

I  do  not  know  that  I  have  ever  recognized  the  truth  of  the  statement 
of  King  Benjamin  to  the  ancient  Nephites  more  fully  than  I  do  at  the 
present  time,  wherein  he  told  them  to.  remember  the  greatness  of  God 
and  their  own  nothingness. 

I  feel  very  humble  and  very  weak  in  this  great  work  that  I  am  called 
to  perform  in  the  East  Central  States  Mission.  I  feel  that  we  have  re- 
ceived, this  morning,  help  for  us  as  we  return  to  the  mission  field.  I  am 
sure  that  if  other  mission  presidents  are  as  I  am,  we  often  sit  in  with  our 
own  individual  thoughts;  we  wonder,  we  think  and  meditate,  we  pray 
and  consider  the  plans  and  the  methods  of  procedure  in  the  mission  field. 
We  are  alone,  only  as  we  consult  with  our  Heavenly  Father  and  receive 
his  inspiration  in  the  things  we  are  to  do. 

Coming  to  these  wonderful  conferences  we  meet,  as  it  were,  in  a 
great  clearing  house  of  ideas,  doctrine,  and  principles.  I  think  now  of 
St.  Paul's  admonition  in  the  scripture  wherein  he  said : 

All  scripture  is  given  by  inspiration  of  God,  and  is  profitable  for 
doctrine,  for  reproof,  for  correction,  for  instruction  in  righteousness: 

Why  all  of  these  things  ? 

That  the  man  of  God  may  be  perfect,  thoroughly  furnished  unto 
all  good  works. 

I  rejoice  in  the  fact  that  we  can  meet  together  in  these  conferences 
and  hear  scripture  from  our  living  prophets,  our  living  leaders,  who 
speak  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  God.  To  me  it  is  scripture, 
even  though  it  is  orally  expressed.  The  Gospels  of  Matthew,  Mark, 
Luke,  and  John,  were  oral  gospels  for  many  years  before  they  were 
committed  to  writing.  Why  should  not  we  as  Latter-day  Saints,  knowing 
as  we  do  that  these  men  have  been  called  of  God,  that  they  speak  under 
the  authority  of  the  Holy  Priesthood,  and  under  the  inspiration  of  the 
Spirit  of  God,  I  say,  why  should  not  we  members  of  his  Church  in  con- 
ference assembled  accept  these  statements  of  theirs  as  scripture  to  us  ? 

I  rejoice  in  the  remarks,  the  doctrines,  the  instructions,  the  cor? 
rections  and  the  reproofs  that  we  have  received  in  this  conference. 
Brethren  and  sisters,  and  friends  who  are  here  today,  I  feel  that  Sain| 
Paul  of  pjcj  had,  at  times,  difficulties  the  same  as  we  mission  presidents 


120  GENERAL-CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  9  Third  Dan 

do  at  the  present  time.  Likely  there  came  into  his  soul  times  of  depres- 
sion, times  of  discouragement.  I  recall  a  statement  of  his  which  I  should 
like  to  read  here  this  morning.  As  he  was  encouraging  the  people  of 
Philippi,  the  first  place  in  Europe  that  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  was 
introduced,  he  held  up  to  them  the  thought,  as  President  Grant  did  here 
last  night,  that  worldly  things  sink  into  insignificance  in  comparison 
with  the  values  and  the  beauties  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  He  said : 

Brethren,  I  count  not  myself  to  have  apprehended;  but  this  one 
thing  I  do,  forgetting  those  things  which  are  behind,  and  reaching  forth 
unto  those  things  which  are  before. 

I  press  toward  the  mark  for  the  prize  of  the  high  calling  of  God 
in  Christ  Jesus. 

In  my  opinion  this  conference  has  sounded  that  keynote.  There  is 
no  return,  there  is  no  backing  up  in  the  things  we  have  attempted  to  do. 
Our  vision  points  towards  the  future,  and  if  there  is  any  one  thing  that 
I  am  trying  to  eliminate  and  eradicate  from  among  the  members  of  the 
East  Central  States  Mission,  it  is  some  of  those  things  that  were  discussed 
a  moment  ago  by  Brother  Stephen  L  Richards,  especially  dissension, 
and  disunity  within  the  Church. 

Brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  the  war  in  heaven  was  a  war 
beween  the  "brethren"  and  the  "accusers  of  the  brethren."  Satan  is 
here  in  our  midst,  this  is  his  dominion,  he  is  the  accuser  of  the  brethren, 
and  when  we  find  ourselves  accusing  our  brethren,  belittling  them  before 
men,  we  are  fighting  Satan's  battles  that  he  is  hoping  will  be  victorious. 

I  am  glad  to  report  that  the  East  Central  States  Mission  is  in  a 
healthy  condition.  Our  baptisms  this  year  are  almost  a  hundred  per 
cent  more  than  they  were  last  year.  We  have  one  hundred  and  four 
missionaries  in  the  field  at  the  present  time,  seventy-nine  Elders  and 
twenty-five  lady  missionaries.  Their  health  has  been  good  in  general, 
although  we  have  had  some  few  who  have  been  afflicted  during  the 
summer  months.  They  are  happy  in  their  work,  their  development  is 
pleasing  to  me,  and  I  am  sure  it  is  pleasing  to  the  members  of  the  Church 
in  that  mission  field  and  to  our  Heavenly  Father. 

My  hope  and  prayer  is  that  we  shall  continue  to  train  our  boys 
and  girls  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  believe  that  we  should  under- 
stand that  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  and  a  testimony  of  the  same  are  not 
hereditary,  they  do  not  come  to  us  by  reason  of  the  fact  that  we  have  been 
born  of  goodly  parents,  unless  we  have  accepted  the  teachings  and  the 
training  those  parents  have  given  unto  us.  Religion  without  education  has 
often  degenerated  into  superstition,  but  theology  that  leads  to  religion, 
if  accompanied  by  education,  may  result  in  the  exaltation  of  man  to  the 
highest  degree  in  the  celestial  kingdom  when  he  applies  it  in  his  life. 

•May  the  Lord  bless  us;  may  we  carry  into  our  fields  of  labor  the 
instruction,  the  inspiration,  and  the  great  enthusiasm  that  we  have  felt 
in  these  conference  sessions,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDEN  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


121 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Once  more  I  congratulate  you  on  seeing  that  there  are  no  accidents. 
I  hope  and  pray  that  you  will  be  very  careful  during  the  remainder  of  the 
day.  I  feel  humiliated  always  when  I  hear  that  Utah  leads  the  whole 
nation  in  killing  and  injuring  people  by  automobile  accidents  in  propor- 
tion to  our  population. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  "Doxology,"  after  which  the 
closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Edwin  L.  Murphy,  President  of  the 
Moon  Lake  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 

THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  promptly  at 
2  o'clock  p.  m.,  Sunday,  October  9. 

Once  more  the  great  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity,  as  was 
also  the  large  Assembly  Hall  on  the  Tabernacle  Block,  and  thousands  who 
could  not  find  accommodation  in  either  of  these  buildings  congregated  up- 
on the  adjoining  grounds,  where  they  listened  to  the  services  as  they  were 
broadcast  from  the  Tabernacle. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  leadership  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall, 
furnished  the  musical  program  for  this  meeting. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Praise  to  the  Man 
who  Communed  with  Jehovah." 

Elder  Heber  Moon,  President  of  the  Duchesne  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

The  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "How  Blessed  are  They." 

ELDER  A.  LORENZO  ANDERSON  . 

President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

I  have  been  thrilled  by  the  singing  and  by  the  remarks  that  have 
been  given  in  this  conference,  and  at  this  moment  particularly  am  I  thrill- 
ed at  the  words  of  President  Grant  when  he  tells  us  to  be  just  as  brief  as 
our  consciences  will  let  us. 

I  was  thrilled  this  morning  with  the  remarks  of  Brother  Stephen 
L  Richards,  when  he  pleaded  for  unity  of  the  membership  of  this  Church, 
and  while  he  was  speaking  I  was  reminded  of  the  remarks  of  one  of  our 
great  statesmen  when  we  were  having  trouble  in  the  United  States.  He 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  9  Third  Day 

was  pleading  for  unity  of  the  people  of  the  United  States,  and  he  told 
them  "If  we  will  be  united  all  the  armies  of  Europe,  of  Asia,  and  Africa 
combined,  with  a  Napoleon  for  a  leader,  could  not  take  a  drink  of  water 
out  of  the  Ohio  river." 

I  should  like  to  paraphrase  that  statement  and  say,  that  all  the  powers 
of  this  earth  and  hell  combined,  with  Lucifer  as  generalissimo,  could 
make  no  inroads  on  the  membership  of  this  Church  if  we  would  but  be 
united. 

In  the  Mexican  Mission  we  have  a  faction  that  has  been  causing  us 
considerable  trouble,  they  think  because  of  the  fact  that  they  are  the  sons 
of  father  Lehi  that  they  are  the  heirs  of  the  kingdom  and  that  we 
ought  to  turn  it  over  to  them  and  let  them  run  it. 

I  want  to  testify  to  you  this  afternoon  that  as  Daniel  said,  the  God 
of  heaven  has  established  his  kingdom  upon  the  earth  again,  never  to  be 
destroyed  nor  given  another  people. 

The  Mexican  Mission,  aside  from  these  few  people  to  whom  I  have 
referred,  who  are  illusioned  for  the  time  being,  is  in  a  healthy  condition. 
We  have  nearly  3000  Saints  there,  and  when  I  came  to  this  conference  I 
came  with  the  idea  that  we  were  about  the  poorest  mission  of  all.  We 
have  nineteen  million  of  the  sons  of  Lehi  down  there  waiting  for  the 
Gospel  to  be  preached  to  them,  and  we  have  only  twenty-eight  mission- 
aries to  do  it.    Eleven  of  those  are  descendants  of  father  Lehi. 

Mexico,  because  of  religious  oppression  in  the  past,  has  been  forced 
to  pass  certain  laws  which  make  it  impossible  for  the  body  of  the  Church 
to  send  us  missionaries.  We  are  dependent  entirely  upon  the  Juarez 
Stake  and  the  Mexican  Mission  proper  to  furnish  missionaries  to  preach 
the  Gospel  to  those  nineteen  millions  of  the  sons  of  father  Lehi.  I  know 
the  Lord  is  able  to  do  a  wonderful  work. 

During  the  broadcast  this  morning  I  sat  where  I  could  not  see  Bro- 
ther Richard  L.  Evans,  and  all  I  had  to  do  was  to  close  my  eyes  and  then 
I  was  down  on  the  tops  of  the  Sierra  Madres  listening  to  him 
over  the  radio.  I  appreciate  very  much  the  power  for  good  in  the  radio, 
the  preaching  of  the  sermons  that  come  out  over  this  radio  to  the  people. 
We  people  who  live  so  far  away  are  able  occasionally  to  listen  to  some  of 
the  brethren  preaching  the  Gospel. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  you  all,  that  he  will  bless  this  great 
work,  the  missionary  cause,  that  we  may  be  able  to  preach  the  Gospel  to 
all  nations,  kindreds,  tongues  and  people,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

On  the  11th  day  of  December,  in  the  year  1907,  I  received  a  tele- 
phone message  at  the  office  of  the  County  Clerk  in  Salt  Lake  County, 
where  I  was  serving  as  chief  deputy.  That  message  said  that  my  father 
wanted  me  to  report  to  him  at  the  Salt  Lake  Temple.   The  message  came 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


123 


to  me  at  about  ten  o'clock,  and  when  I  went  to  the  temple  I  was  ushered 
into  the  room  occupied  by  the  Presidency  and  Twelve,  by  Brother  Sal- 
mon, and  was  notified  that  Charles  W.  Nibley  had  been  chosen,  to  serve 
as  Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church,  and  that  he  had  chosen  Orin  P.  Miller 
as  his  first  counselor  and  I  was  to  be  the  second  counselor. 

When  the  announcement  was  made  I  had  not  expected  such  a  thing. 
It  was  not  an  unusual  thing  for  father  to  call  for  me  to  look  after  his 
personal  affairs.  I  turned  dizzy.  I  steadied  myself  by  the  arm  of  the 
chair. 

On  the  6th  day  of  April,  in  the  year  1938, 1  was  confined  to  my  home 
on  account  of  a  severe  cold  and  sore  throat.  A  few  minutes  before  two 
o'clock  President  Grant  telephoned  to  me  and  told  me  that  a  new  Presid- 
ing Bishopric  would  be  sustained,  and  admonished  me  not  to  worry  as 
something  would  be  found  for  me. 

Today  only  seven  of  the  men  are  still  living  who  .constituted  the 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church  when  I  first  became  one  of  that  body. 
I  am  grateful  that  I  have  had  the  privilege  of  knowing  those  who  served 
then  and  who  are  gone.  I  am  grateful  for  the  privilege  I  have  had  of 
laboring  with  and  knowing  the  men  who  now  serve  as  the  General  Au- 
thorities of  this  Church.  I  have  tried  to  serve  faithfully,  for  I  have  had 
faith.  Every  fiber  of  my  body  testifies  that  God  lives  and  as  I  have  said 
to  you  many  times  it  is  not  where  we  labor  but  how  we  labor  that  leads 
us  to  salvation.  It  is  not  the  Priesthood  that  assures  to  us  exaltation, 
but  the  manner  in  which  we  honor  and  labor  under  the  authority  of  that 
Priesthood.  As  I  have  tried  to  labor  in  the  past  to  serve  my  God,  I  assure 
you  that  in  my  new  calling  in  the  Canadian  Mission  I  shall  go  with  that 
same  faith  and  with  that  same  desire  to  support  the  authorities  of  this 
Church,  with  the  same  appreciation  of  the  privilege  which  comes  to  me 
to  labor  with  my  fellows  in  the  authority  of  the  Priesthood,  the  object 
being  to  bring  souls  unto  our  Father. 

We  have  only  a  few  members  in  that  mission,  about  one-half  the 
number  that  comprises  the  membership  of  the  Ward  in  which  my  resi- 
dence has  been.  I  have  met  them  in  meetings  and  in  their  homes,  con- 
versed with  them,  and  if  I  dare  say  so  I  would  say  I  have  found  a  people 
who  put  to  shame  many  of  those  who  live  under  the  influence  of  this 
great  building  and  the  Priesthood,  where  they  can  partake  of  the  bread 
as  it  comes  from  those  who  hold  the  authority  to  teach. 

I  rejoice  in  this  privilege,  and  I  pray  God  that  he  will  continue  to 
sustain  me,  that  I  shall  not  fail  in  the  trust  which  has  been  imposed  upon 
me.  I  sincerely  hope  that  he  will  continue  those  blessings  to  me  and  the 
people  over  whom  I  preside,  that  we  may  continue  to  rejoice  in  him  and 
his  work,  and  in  the  opportunity  which  comes  to  us  to  serve. 

These  blessings  T  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


124  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  9  Third  Day 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


0/  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  thank  my  heavenly  Father  for  the  privilege  I  have  of  standing 
before  this  immense  audience  of  his  servants  and  handmaidens,  and  as 
time  is  limited  I  have  decided  that  the  only  way  to  stop  when  you  get 
started  is  to  have  it  in  such  form  that  you  will  know  when  the  end  is 
reached. 

Get  into  the  habit  of  being  happy.  I  tell  you  you  can  do  it.  You 
can  say  to  yourself  when  you  are  awakened  in  the  morning,  "Everything 
is  all  right,"  and  keep  on  saying  it.  You  will  be  surprised  to  find  how 
nearly  all  right  the  mere  saying  of  it  at  the  beginning  of  the  day  will 
really  make  everything  right  after  all.  This  is  true  in  business  as  well 
as  in  the  home.  Prophets  of  gloom  are  never  popular,  and  ought  not 
to  be. 

JOSEPH  SMITH'S  SAYINGS 

Joseph  Smith  was  the  author  of  such  sayings  as  these: 

The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence. 

It  is  impossible  to  be  saved  in  ignorance. 

Whatever  principle  of  intelligence  we  attain  unto  in  this  life,  it  will 
rise  with  us  in  the  resurrection. 

And  if  a  person  gains  more  knowledge  and  intelligence  in  this  life 
through  his  diligence  and  obedience  than  another,  he  will  have  so  much  the 
advantage  in  the  world  to  come. 

The  Prophet  was  true  to  his  principles.  He  established  schools  and 
championed  the  cause  of  education. 

A  TRIBUTE  TO  JOSEPH  SMITH 

A  Mormon  writer  has  said: 

His  educational  ideals  passed  over  the  threshold  of  time  and  strode 
down  the  halls  of  eternity.  With  a  full  appreciation  of  the  knowledge 
that  makes  men  and  women  capable  and  skilful  in  this  life,  he  prized, 
and  taught  others  to  prize,  above  all,  the  knowledge  that  maketh  wise 
unto  salvation. 

How  to  solve  life's  every-day  problems  is  of  course  important,  but 
how  to  grapple  successfully  with  the  mightier  problems  of  the  great 
hereafter,  how  to  store  up  treasures  in  heaven  and  lay  hold  upon  eternal 
life,  is  far  more  consequential.  Education  meant  to  him  the  leading 
of  the  latent  potential  powers  of  the  individual,  the  training  to  perfection 
of  every  divine  attribute  in  man.  As  a  child  of  God,  and  as  a  God 
himself  in  embryo,  he  stood  for  the  full  and  complete  development  of  the 
soul,  body  and  spirit  combined — mental,  physical,  moral,  and  spiritual 
education,  the  education  contemplated  and  inculcated  by  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and  every  succeeding  President  of  the  Church  has  stood 
for  these  principles. 

DEFINITION  OF  CAN'T 


There  is  a  place  provided  in  our  Church  organizations  for  every 
member.    Excuses  are  sometimes  offered,  and  many  times  the  reason 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


125 


given  is,  "I  cannot  give  the  time."  "Can't!"  What  a  word !  That  which 
I  intend  to  quote  now  is  Edgar  A.  Guest's  definition  of  the  word  can't." 

Can't  is  the  worst  word  that  is  written  or  spoken 
Doing  more  harm  here  than  slander  or  lies. 

It  has  many  a  strong  spirit  broken, 

And  with  it  many  a  good  purpose  dies. 
It  springs  from  the  lips  of  the  thoughtless  each  morning, 
And  robs  us  of  courage  we  need  through  the  day: 

It  rings  in  our  ears  like  a  timely  sent  warning, 

And  leaves  when  we  falter  and  fall  by  the  way. 

Can't  is  the  father  of  feeble  endeavor, 

The  parent  of  terror  and  half-hearted  work ; 

It  weakens  the  efforts  of  artisans  clever, 

And  makes  of  the  toiler  an  indolent  shirk. 
It  poisons  the  soul  of  a  man  with  a  vision, 
It  stifles  in  infancy  many  a  plan; 

It  greets  honest  toiling  with  open  derision 

And  mocks  at  the  hopes  and  the  dreams  of  a  man. 

Can't  is  a  word  that  none  should  speak  without  blushing; 
To  utter  it  should  be  a  symbol  of  shame; 

Ambition  and  courage  it  daily  is  crushing ; 

It  blights  a  man's  purpose  and  shatters  his  aim. 
Despise  it  with  all  of  your  hatred  of  error, 
Refuse  it  the  lodgment  it  seeks  in  your  brain ; 

Arm  against  it  as  a  creature  of  terror, 

And  all  that  you  dream  of  you  some  day  shall  gain. 

Can't  is  a  word  that  is  doom  to  ambition, 
An  enemy  ambushed  to  shatter  your  will ; 

Its  prey  is  forever  the  man  with  a  mission, 

And  bows  but  to  courage,  and  patience,  and  skill. 
Hate  it  with  hatred  that  is  deep  and  undying, 
For  once  it  is  welcomed  'twill  break  any  man; 

Whatever  the  goal  you  are  seeking,  keep  trying, 

And  answer  this  demon  by  saying  "I  can." 

DEVELOPMENT  THROUGH  WORK 

One  splendid  way  to  avoid  falling  into  error  is  to  labor.  Don't 
become  a  loafer.  There  is  always  something  to  do  for  a  boy  and  girl, 
a  father  and  mother,  around  the  home,  in  the  home.  Take  part  in  the 
Church  in  any  interest  for  the  welfare  of  the  people.  You  remember 
in  the  old  fable  the  tortoise  won  the  race  with  the  hare,  not  by  a  single 
burst  of  speed,  but  by  plodding  along  steadily,  tirelessly.  In  the  Civil 
War  it  was  found  that  Lee's  army  could  not  be  overwhelmed  in  a  single 
battle,  but  one  federal  general  perceived  that  it  could  be  worn  down  by 
time  and  the  pressure  of  numbers.  "I  propose,"  said  Grant,  "to  fight 
it  out  on  this  line  if  it  takes  all  summer."  It  took  more  than  a  summer, 
it  took  nearly  a  year,  but  he  did  it. 

In  the  moral  realm  likewise,  all  things  excellent  are  as  difficult  as 
they  are  rare.  Character  is  not  attained  over  night.  The  only  way  to 
develop  moral  muscles  is  to  exercise  them  patiently  and  long.  This 
is  so  well  expressed  by  that  renowned  man,  J.  G.  Holland,  as  follows ; 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  9  Third  Day 

Heaven  is  not  reached  at  a  single  bound ; 

But  we  build  the  ladder  by  which  we  rise 
From  the  lowly  earth  to  the  vaulted  skies, 

And  we  mount  its  summit  round  by  round. 

I  count  this  thing  to  be  grandly  true : 

That  a  noble  deed  is  a  step  toward  God, 

Lifting  the  soul  from  the  common  clod 
To  a  purer  air  and  a  broader  view. 

We  rise  by  the  things  that  are  under  feet ; 

By  what  we  have  mastered  of  good  and  gain; 

By  the  pride  deposed  and  the  passion  slain, 
And  the  vanquished  ills  that  we  hourly  meet. 

We  hope,  we  aspire,  we  resolve,  we  trust, 

When  the  morning  calls  us  to  life  and  light, 
But  our  hearts  grow  weary,  and,  ere  the  night, 

Our  lives  are  trailing  the  sordid  dust. 

We  hope,  we  resolve,  we  aspire,  we  pray, 

And  we  think  that  we  mount  the  air  on  wings 
Beyond  the  recall  of  sensual  things, 

While  our  feet  still  cling  to  the  heavy  clay. 

Wings  for  the  angels,  but  feet  for  men ! 

We  may  borrow  the  wings  to  find  the  way — 
We  may  hope,  and  resolve,  and  aspire,  and  pray ; 

But  our  feet  must  rise,  or  we  fall  again. 

Only  in  dreams  is  a  ladder  thrown 

From  the  weary  earth  to  the  sapphire  walls ; 
But  the  dreams  depart,  and  the  vision  falls, 

And  the  sleeper  wakes  on  his  pillow  of  stone. 

Heaven  is  not  reached  at  a  single  bound; 

But  we  build  the  ladder  by  which  we  rise 
From  the  lowly  earth  to  the  vaulted  skies, 

And  we  mount  to  its  summit,  round  by  round. 


TRUE  RICHES 


How  rich-  are  you,  how  rich  are  any  of  us  ?  I  think  the  letter- 
portraying  and  answering  that  question  is  very  well  worded.  No  one  yet 
has  learned  the  author.  When  first  it  was  published  every  effort  was 
made  to  learn  who  the  author  was,  but  up  to  the  present  time  we  know 
not.   But  no  matter  who  the  author  was  I  think  the  words  are  beautiful : 

I  do  not  mean  how  much  money  you  have  in  the  bank,  or  how  much 
your  real  estate  is  worth,  there  are  other  riches  more  valuable  than 
these.  Some  day  I  am  going  to  write  a  book  about  how  every  man  and 
woman  may  be  rich,  right  now,  today,  in  the  things  that  really  count. 
In  my  scrap  book  I  have  a  little  article  about  being  richer  each  day 
that  I  would  like  to  share  with  you.    Here  it  is : 

"You  are  richer  today  than  you  were  yesterday.  If  you  have 
loved  often,  given  something,  forgiven  often,  made  a  new  friend  today, 
or  made  stepping-stones  of  stumbling-blocks,  if  you  have  thought  more 
in  terms  of  thyself  than  myself,  or  if  you  have  learned  to  be  hopeful 
even  if  you  were  weary,  you  are  richer  tonight  than  you  were  this 
morning.    If  you  have  taken  time  to  trace  the  handiwork  of  God  in  the 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


127 


commonplace  things  of  life,  or  if  you  have  learned  to  count  things  that 
really  do  not  count,  or  if  you  have  been  a  little  blinder  to  the  faults  of 
friends,  and  know  you  are  richer  if  a  little  child  has  smiled  at  you,  a 
stray  dog  has  licked  your  hand,  or  if  you  have  looked  for  the  best  in 
others  and  given  others  the  best  in  you." 

STRENGTH  OF  THE  CHURCH 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  often  wondered  why  intelligent  men 
and  women  who  believe  in  the  Bible,  men  and  women  who  believe  that 
there  was  a  Christ,  do  not  attend  church.  We  find  churches  in  all  parts 
of  America  with  but  very  few  in  attendance.  I  have  had  men  ask  me 
time  and  time  again  how  it  was  that  the  Mormon  Church  had  that  power 
and  influence  over  people  to  tell  them  to  do  a  thing  and  they  do  it  with 
all  their  might,  mind,  and.  strength,  and  with  joy  in  their  souls.  They 
do  not  understand  why  our  missionaries  go  out  into  the  world  for  two 
or  three  years,  once  or  twice,  or  three  times,  as  the  case  may  be,  bearing 
their  own  expenses  in  an  effort  to  convert  the  people  who  believe  that 
they  have  the  Gospel. 

How  happy  we  should  be  that  our  lives,  our  position,  our  belief 
are  based  upon  a  direct  visitation  from  the  Father  and  the  Son  to  Joseph 
Smith  in  this  dispensation!  If  that  were  not  true  do  you  think  that  this 
Church  would  have  lived  and  grown  and  become  the  power  it  has  ?  And 
do  you  think  that  any  man,  I  care  not  whether  it  was  Joseph  Smith,  or 
Brigham  Young,  or  any  other  living  soul,  could  have  done  this  if  it  were 
not  true  that  the  Father  and  the  Son  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith,  and 
also  that  later  the  Priesthood  of  the  living  God  was  conferred  upon 
him  and  he  was  instructed  to  organize  the  Church  to  which  you  and  I 
belong  ? 

God  grant  that  we  may  ever  be  loyal  and  true  to  it,  and  that  what- 
ever comes,  and  whatever  demand  is  made  we  may  know  it  is  what  God 
would  desire.  God  be  with  you,  and  bless  you,  and  prosper  you.  May 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  grow  every  day  and  every  year  until  the 
Master  shall  come,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  nowhere  in  all  the  world  do  I  feel 
myself  so  much  in  the  presence  of  friends,  as  in  these  great  General 
Conferences  of  the  Church — thousands  of  men  and  women  who  are  of 
the  same  faith,  with  the  same  objective  in  life,  having  the  same  aspira- 
tions as  to  the  hereafter.  I  feel  myself  as  one  of  a  great  family  in 
these  conferences.  Yet  there  is  a  feeling  as  one  stands  before  this  group, 
akin  to  fear,  akin  to  awe.  I  have  heard  my  brethren  say  that  they  also 
have  that  feeling.  Brigham  Young  explained  it  by  saying  that  we  are 
all  children  of  Almighty  God,  his  very  children,  begotten  in  the  spirit 
world  before  we  came  here  upon  this  earth,  and  that  within  every  one 
of  us,  for  that  reason,  is  a  spark  of  divinity.  When  a  man  stands  before 
a  group  of  thousands  of  righteous  men  and  women,  as  I  do  this  moment, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


he  feels  the  divinity  within  them,  and  feels  much  as  he  would  if  he  stood 
before  Divinity  itself. 

I  rejoice  in  having  this  opportunity;  yet  when  I  look  at  the  clock 
I  know  that  "the  time  is  far  spent,  there  is  little  remaining" — except 
speakers.  You  will  permit  me  therefore,  I  am  quite  sure,  to  lay  aside 
the  theme  that  I  have  selected  for  this  conference — it  may  sound  just 
as  well  next  April — and  to  bear  testimony  to  you  as  the  Spirit  may 
move  upon  me  at  this  moment. 


I  do  bear  testimony  to  you  of  the  truth  of  this  work,  which  has 
brought  us  together  during  this  great,  wonderful,  thrilling  conference. 
This  work  is  of  God,  not  of  man.  It  was  founded  in  revelation.  It 
has  been  guided  by  revelation.  It  is  being  directed  today  by  revelation. 
It  possesses  the  authority  of  eternity — we  call  it  the  Priesthood — the 
power  by  which  the  heavens  and  the  earth  were  made. 

The  man  who  stands  at  the  head  of  the  Church  today  holds  the 
keys,  rights,  privileges,  and  authority  held  by  every  man  who  throughout 
the  generations  of  time  has  been  called  to  lead  the  cause  of  God.  He 
stands  as  the  representative  of  God's  great  plan  of  salvation. 

Our  destiny  is  for  all  men.  We  are  servants  of  the  human  race, 
bearers  of  truth  and  light  to  those  who  are  in  ignorance,  -and  who  sit 
in  darkness.  We  are  not  like  other  men ;  we  are  not  like  other  women. 
We  are  chosen  and  set  apart  unto  the  greatest  and  gravest  responsibilities 
that  the  Lord  has  ever  placed  upon  his  children  on  earth. 

This  is  the  last  dispensation,  not  the  first.  It  is  the  summation  of 
the  thousands  of  years  since  the  earth  was  made.  This  is  the  evening 
of  earth's  Saturday.  The  work  is  about  to  be  completed.  The  manner 
and  time  of  its  completion,  and  all  that  pertains  to  these  last  days  are 
left  very  largely  with  us,  the  commissioned  servants  of  Almighty  God 
in  this  great  work. 

I  rejoice  in  this  testimony,  and  I  bear  it  to  you.  And  I  want  to 
say  to  you,  my  brethreq  and  sisters,  that  this  testimony  is  knowledge, 
the  higher  knowledge,  transcending  mere  belief,  or  even  ordinary  faith. 
It  is  the  best  in  my  life,  as  it  is  the  best  in  your  lives — for  I  speak  but 
as  one  of  hundreds  of  thousands  in  this  Church  and  kingdom  who  bear 
this  testimony.  This  testimony  is  my  priceless  possession,  the  thing  I 
value  most,  the  thing  to  which  I  want  to  cling  throughout  life. 

You  may  well  ask  me,  and  you  have  the  right  to  ask  me,  as  you 
may  ask  my  brethren  and  sisters  by  the  ten  of  thousands  who  like  me 
can  bear  this  same  testimony,  how  we  dare  to  declare  such  a  testimony, 
how  we  dare  to  say  that  we  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  God.  In 
answer,  thousands  in  this  congregation,  would  join  with  me  in  explaining 
how  such  a  testimony  may  be  won. 


TESTIMONY  AS  TO  DIVINITY  OF  WORK 


EVIDENCES  OF  THE  TRUTH  ARE  PLAIN  TO  BE  SEEN' 


The  evidences  of  the  truth  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
lie  all  about  us,  if  we  but  search  and  seek.   They  lie  within  easy  reach. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


129 


They  are  evidences  no  man  can  deny,  so  clear  to  the  vision,  I  was  about 
to  say,  that  the  blind  can  see  them.  Who  can  read  the  life  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  the  backwoods  boy  of  New  York,  untaught,  unlettered, 
except  as  revelation  came  to  him,  who  can  read  his  career  and  the  teach- 
ings of  his  life  without  saying  of  him,  honestly,  "The  man  did  not  speak 
of  himself.  Powers  beyond  man  spoke  through  him  for  the  benefit  of 
humanity"  ? 

Take  the  life  of  our  own  President,  the  commissioned  leader  of  our 
Church  today.  His  life  is  like  an  open  book;  we  know  every  chapter 
in  it.  Who  would  dare  to  say  that  Heber  J.  Grant  the  President  of  the 
Church  today  speaks  only  through  the  great  natural  endowment  that  was 
recognized  in  him  even  while  he  was  a  boy  ?  One  must  be  blind,  indeed, 
and  hard  of  hearing  who  cannot  recognize  the  spirit  of  inspiration  and 
the  voice  of  God  speaking  through  the  prophet  of  this  day,  our  day, 
this  Sunday,  in  which  we  are  living. 

Yet,  evidences  are  not  enough  to  gain  a  testimony  of  the  truth ;  we 
have  something  more.  I  was  brought  up  in  scientific  laboratories,  where 
I  was  taught  to  test  things,  never  to  be  satisfied  unless  a  thing  was  tested. 
We  have  the  right  to  test  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  By 
testing  it  I  mean  living  it,  trying  it  out.  Do  you  question  the  Word 
of  Wisdom?  Try  it.  Do  you  question  the  law  of  tithing?  Practice  it. 
Do  you  doubt  the  virtue  of  attending  meetings?  Attend  them.  Only 
then  shall  we  be  able  to  speak  of  these  things  intelligently  and  in  such 
a  way  as  to  be  respected  by  those  who  listen  to  us.  Those  who  live 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  gain  this  higher  knowledge,  this  greater 
testimony,  this  ultimate  assurance  that  this  is  the  truth.  It  is  the  way 
to  truth.  All  the  while,  brethren  and  sisters,  we  must  seek  help  from 
the  great  unseen  world  about  us,  from  God  and  his  messengers.  We 
call  that  prayer.  A  man  never  finds  perfect  peace,  never  reaches  afar 
unless  he  penetrates  to  some  degree  the  unseen  world,  and  reaches  out 
to  touch  the  hands,  as  it  were,  of  those  who  live  in  that  unseen  world, 
the  world  out  of  which  we  came,  the  world  into  which  we  shall  go. 

SIMPLE  THINGS  LEAD  TO  GREAT  TRUTHS 

I  want  to  conclude  by  saying  that  in  seeking  a  testimony  of  the 
truth  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  Gospel  restored  in  our 
day,  we  need  chiefly  to  give  attention  to  the  little  things  of  life.  The 
little  things  are  really  the  great  things  of  life;  and  the  things  we  call 
great  in  life  are  the  little  things.  Life  is  made  up  of  little  things,  our 
daily  duties.  We  are  too  prone  to  say  that  that  which  is  clear  and 
understandable  is  of  little  consequence;  while  that  which  is  complex 
and  difficult  to  understand  we  sometimes  hold  to  be  great.  Let  us 
remember  that  the  little  things  of  life,  the  simple  things,  are  the  ones 
that  lead  us  into  the  greater  truths. 

I  was  taught  in  my  scientific  day  to  look  for  fundamental  principles, 
the  governing  principles,  and  not  to  worry  about  the  complexities  or  mys- 
teries of  things.  I  found  that  when  I  looked  down  deep  into  the  heart 
of  things,  I  found  that  the  principles  that  govern  and  guide  were  always 


130  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  9  Third  Day 

simple  and  easily  understood.  Man's  progress  towards  truth  has  been 
along  simple  ways. 

The  theme  of  President  Grant's  opening  sermon  just  a  few  days 
ago  was  constant  labor  of  the  right  kind  as  far  as  we  have  strength 
and  ability.  That  is  a  simple,  elementary  principle ;  yet  so  fundamental 
that  in  practice  it  changes  the  whole  world  for  every  man  who  lives  in  it. 
Brother  Bowen  spoke  of  honesty — another  simple  principle ;  yet  he  wove 
it  into  the  pattern  of  our  character.  Brother  Merrill  spoke  on  unselfish- 
ness— a  simple  principle,  yet  the  power  that  makes  the  world  habitable. 
From  such  simple  principles  are  woven  the  pattern  of  the  peace  and 
prosperity  of  the  world. 

CONCLUDING  TESTIMONY 

Now  I  must  not  say  more.  I  have  borne  you  my  testimony.  It 
may  be  gained  by  any  and  every  person.  The  way  is  simple ;  God  has  not 
made  that  road  difficult  to  travel;  but  we  must  obey  certain  principles 
of  truth  to  guide  us  if  we  are  to  reach  the  end.  Every  man  may  reach 
it  who  really  desires  it.  There  are  hundreds  of  thousands  of  people, 
I  am  happy  to  say,  in  this  last  dispensation  who  have  found  this  testi- 
mony, who  have  secured  this  certain  and  firm  knowledge  of  the  truth, 
and  who  can  bear  witness,  perhaps  even  more  certainly  than  I  can 
— though  it  seems  to  me  that  my  faith  has  passed  beyond  doubt — that 
God  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
indeed  a  prophet  of  God  divinely  inspired  and  guided,  and  that  we  are 
.  engaged  in  the  work  of  God  for  the  completion  of  God's  great  plan  with 
respect  to  the  human  race. 

I  thank  God  for  the  Gospel,  in  my  behalf  and  in  your  behalf.  God 
bless  us  and  make  us  true  to  the  truth,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Tesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  "By  Babylon's  Wave,"  (Gounod). 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  as  I  contemplate  the  growth  of  the 
mission  of  the  Church  of  Christ,  I  feel  to  exclaim  with  Browning: 
"God's  in  his  heaven:  all's  right  with  the  world."  Men  and  nations 
make  errors  and  will  be  punished  therefor,  but  ultimately  the  Lord 
will  overrule  the  acts  of  men  for  the  triumph  of  Truth.  This  great 
Conference  has  given  added  assurance  in  the  success  of  this,  God's 
work.  I  hope  all  who  have  attended  the  sessions  or  who  have  listen- 
ed in  have  had  their  faith  increased  in  the  divinity  of  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

PURPOSES  OF  CONFERENCES 

Such  is  one  of  the  purposes  of  these  conferences.  Reference  to 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  will  disclose  the  fact  that  there  are  four 
principal  purposes  of  holding  conferences  of  the  Church : 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


131 


First,  to  transact  current  Church  business, 

Second,  to  hear  reports  and  general  Church  statistics, 

Third,  to  "approve  of  those  names  which  I  (the  Lord)  have 

appointed,  or  to  disapprove  of  them." 

Fourth,  to  worship  the  Lord  in  sincerity  and  reverence,  and  to 

give  and  to  receive  encouragement,  exhortation,  and  instruction. 

GROWTH  OF  THE  CHURCH 

It  is  a  good  thing  in  the  Church,  as  in  business,  to  check  up  on 
ourselves  to  see  whether  we  are  succeeding  or  failing. 

Organizations  as  individuals  are  either  progressing  or  retro- 
grading— they  seldom  if  ever  stand  still.  To  progress  is  to  obey 
the  law  of  life.  If  the  Church  or  any  part  of  it  were  not  improving, 
you  may  rest  assured  that  it  would  be  deteriorating.  No  Ward, 
Stake,  or  Branch  of  the  Church  can  long  remain  stationary.  It  is 
a  source  of  satisfaction  to  all  of  us  to  realize  that  we  belong  to  a 
Church  that  is  moving  forward.  Statistics  for  the  nine  months 
ending  September  30  corroborate  this  fact.  Since  January  1,  1938 
there  have  been  organized  six  new  stakes,  24  new  wards,  and  21 
independent  branches — 4  wards  and  5  independent  branches  have 
been  disorganized,  leaving  a  clear  gain  of  20  wards,  and  16  new 
independent  branches.  This  increase  during  these  nine  months  is 
but  indicative  of  the  steady  growth  of  the  Church  since  its  organiza- 
tion. 

I  have  been  reminded,  since  attending  this  Conference  and 
listening  to  the  reports  of  some  of  the  Mission  Presidents,  and  the 
remarks  of  Stake  Presidents  when  I  have  met  them,  of  the  great 
growth  manifested  since  I  became  associated  with  the  General  Au- 
thorities. For  example,  in  1910  I  visited  the  California  Mission. 
As  I  recall  it,  the  total  membership  then  was  about  2000,  and  only 
one  Church  building  owned  by  the  members,  and  that  was  up  at 
Gridley.  Today  we  have  9  stakes,  70  wards,  10  independent 
branches,  with  a  church  membership  of  approximately  35,000,  and 
Church  property  amounting  to  approaching  two  million  dollars. 
In  addition  to  this  the  California  Mission  numbers  9,400,  and  owns 
property  valued  at  approximately  $227,500.00. 

I  have  heard  President  Grant  refer  to  his  early  experience  in 
Bear  Lake  Stake  which  was  organized  June  20,  1869.  I  do  not 
know  what  the  membership  was  then  at  the  time  of  organization; 
but  about  ten  years  later  it  was  3,418.  Today  in  Idaho  there  are  25 
Stakes,  244  wards,  and  14  independent  branches,  comprising  a 
membership  of  approximately  100,000 — (99,111)  and  two  more 
stakes  already  approved. 

The  growth  of  the  Church  in  the  Northwest  during  the  last 
few  years  has  been  outstanding.  Portland,  as  you  know,  is  now 
the  center  of  an  organized  Stake,  as  is  also  Seattle. 

Thriving  stakes  are  found  in  Chicago  and  New  York,  and  a 
promise  of  another  in  Washington,  D.  C,  the  capital  of  the  nation. 


132  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  9  Third  Dag 


COMMENDATION  OF  WELFARE  WORKERS 

An  important  and  most  commendable  enterprise  undertaken 
by  the  Church  is  its  Welfare  Program.  Of  its  value  and  significance 
much  has  been  said  during  the  Conference.  I  desire  to  commend 
in  the  presence  of  this  large  audience  the  able  and  unselfish  work 
of  the  eleven  members  of  the  General  Committee  chosen  to  assist 
the  General  Authorities.  These  men  are  leaders  in  their  chosen 
occupations  and  professions.  They,  as  you,  give  their  very  best  to 
the  advancement  of  this  great  undertaking,  contributing  their  time 
and  ability  without  a  cent  of  compensation.  The  reward  of  their 
effort  lies  in  their  love  for  the  work. 

Under  the  direction  of  this  committee  and  the  management  of 
experienced  and  dependable  contractors,  the  Central  Storehouse 
Building  Project  is  being  carried  on  at  751  West  7th  South,  this 
city,  one  of  the  pivotal  centers  around  which  this  entire  plan  re- 
volves. 

In  your  mind's  eye,  come  with  me  momentarily  and  stand  out- 
side those  unfinished  buildings.  Here  we  see  a  worthy  example 
of  cooperation.  The  steel  lying  there,  being  used  to  reinforce  the 
cement,  has  been  furnished  at  cost;  by  firms  not  members  of  the 
Church.  So  have  the  cement  and  the  lumber;  so  'have  the  ma- 
terials purchased  from  merchants  in  this  city,  also  the  electric  poles 
and  the  wire.  The  spirit  of  cooperation  is  manifested  by  members 
and  non-members.  Here  are  from  40  to  60  men  working  daily — 
men  otherwise  unemployed,  each  recommended  by  his  Bishop.  Each 
receives  for  his  labor  small  amounts  in  cash,  the  balance  in  orders 
on  the  storehouses. 

One  of  the  most  pleasing  things  which  you  observe  is  the  fact 
that  union  men  work  side  by  side  with  non-union  men.  I  wish  to 
commend  the  Brick-layer's  Union  particularly  for  their  attitude 
toward  this  great  Welfare  movement  in  permitting  their  men  to 
work  side  by  side  with  others  in  the  spirit  of  true  brotherhood. 

I  would  ask  you,  too,  to  contemplate  the  Mormon  Handicraft 
Project  carried  on  by  the  Relief  Society,  a  most  commendable  en- 
terprise, in  which  650  women  have  found  employment  while  they 
remained  at  home  with  their  families. 

The  spiritual  progress  of  the  Church  also  is  equally  encourag- 
ing. Tithing  has  increased;  so  has  the  fast  offering.  The  growth 
in  interest  in  the  Priesthood  quorums,  while  it  is  not  yet  what  it 
should  be,  indicates  clearer  vision  on  the  part  of  officers  as  to  the 
responsibility  of  these  groups. 

Such  are  a  few  of  the  sign  posts  of  the  progress  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  refer  to  them  not  with  a 
desire  to  boast  or  to  overestimate  their  significance,  but  as  indica- 
tions that  the  Church  is  moving  forward. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY  133 

PEACE  THE  MESSAGE  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  future  and  permanency  of  the  work  is  assured  so  long  as 
the  Priesthood  will  keep  in  mind  the  great  mission  of  the  Church. 
It  is  truly  a  messenger  of  peace.  When  Christ  came  to  the  earth 
his  advent  was  heralded  by  an  angelic  chorus  singing:  "Glory  to 
God  in  the  highest,  and  on  earth,  peace,  good  will  toward  men." 
This  message  has  been  repeated  so  often  that  it  seems  trite,  and, 
yet,  if  peace  and  brotherhood  could  even  be  approximated,  it  would 
prove  the  greatest  boon  that  could  come  to  humanity. 

Since  time  began  men  have  kept  the  world  in  turmoil  with  their 
useless  strivings,  their  bickerings,  and  their  contentions.  There  is 
an  old,  old  story  told  that  a  man  from  another  planet  was  permitted 
to  visit  the  earth.  From  an  eminence  he  looked  down  upon  the 
bustling  cities  of  the  world.  Millions  of  men,  like  ants,  were  busy 
building  palaces  of  pleasure,  and  other  things  that  would  not  last ; 
chasing  will-o'-the-wisps  and  seeking  financial  bubbles  that  burst 
before  their  eyes.  As  he  left  to  go  back  he  said :  "All  these  people 
are  spending  their  time  in  building  just  bird's  nests;  no  wonder  they 
fail  and  are  ashamed." 

The  peace  of  Christ  does  not  come  by  seeking  the  superficial 
things  of  life,  neither  does  it  come  except  as  it  springs  from  the 
individual's  heart.  Jesus  said  to  His  disciples :  "Peace  I  leave  with 
you.  My  peace  I  give  unto  you;  not  as  the  world  giveth,  give  I 
unto  you."  Thus  the  Son  of  Man  as  the  executor  of  his  own  will 
and  testament  gave  to  his  disciples  and  to  mankind  the  "first  of  all 
human  blessings."  It  was  a  bequest  conditioned  upon  obedience 
to  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  thus  bequeathed 
to  each  individual.  No  man  is  at  peace  with  himself  or  his  God 
who  is  untrue  to  his  better  self,  who  transgresses  the  law  of  right 
either  in  dealing  with  himself  by  indulging  in  passion,  in  appetite, 
yielding  to  temptations  against  his  accusing  conscience,  or  in  deal- 
ing with  his  fellowmen,  being  untrue  to  their  trust.  Peace  does  not 
come  to  the  transgressor  of  law ;  peace  comes  by  obedience  to 
law,  and  it  is  that  message  which  Jesus  would  have  us  proclaim 
among  men. 

If  we  would  have  peace  as  individuals,  we  must  supplant  enmity 
with  forbearance,  which  means  to  refrain  or  abstain  from  finding 
fault  or  from  condemning  others.  "It  is  a  noble  thing  to  be  chari- 
table with  the  failings  and  weaknesses  of  a  friend ;  to  bury  his  weak- 
nesses in  silence,  but  to  proclaim  his  virtues  from  the  house  tops." 
We  shall  have  power  to  do  this  if  we  really  cherish  in  our  hearts 
the  ideals  of  Christ,  who  said : 

If  thou  bring  thy  gift  to  the  altar,  and  there  rememberest  that  thy 
brother  hath  ought  against  thee;  Leave  there  thy  gift  before  the  altar, 
and  go  thy  way;  first  be  reconciled  to  thy  brother,  and  then  come  and 
offer  thy  gift. 

Note  the  Savior  did  not  say  if  you  have  ought  against  him, 
but  if  you  find  that  another  has  ought  against  you.    How  many  of 


i 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Dan 


us  are  ready  to  come  up  to  that  standard?  If  we  are,  we  shall 
find  peace.  Many  of  us,  however,  instead  of  following  this  admoni- 
tion, nurse  our  ill-will  until  it  grows  to  hatred,  then  this  hatred 
expresses  itself  in  fault-finding  and  even  slander,  "whose  whisper 
over  the  world's  diameter  as  level  as  a  cannon  to  its  mouth,  trans- 
ports its  poison  shot."  Back-biting,  fault-finding,  are  weeds  of 
society  that  should  be  constantly  eradicated.  Gossip,  too,  brings 
discord  and  thrives  best  in  superficial  minds,  as  fungi  grows  best 
on  weakened  plants,  "Bear  ye  one  another's  burdens,"  but  do  not 
add  to  those  burdens  by  gossiping  about  your  neighbors  or  by 
spreading  slander.  Diogenes  was  asked  one  day  to  name  that  beast, 
the  bite  of  which  is  the  most  dangerous.  The  old  philosopher  re- 
plied :  "Of  tame  beasts,  the  bite  of  the  flatterer ;  of  wild  beasts,  that 
of  the  slanderer." 

During  the  approaching  political  campaign  let  us  refrain,  from 
making  personal  attacks  and  from  hurling  slanderous  abuse,  and 
thus  avoid  injuring  one  another's  feelings,  and  after  election  have 
fewer  regrets  and  heartaches. 


If  the  world  would  be  at  peace  it  must  supplant  the  rule  of  force 
by  the  rule  of  love.  The  scriptures  tell  us  that  in  the  beginning 
Satan  proffered  to  force  all  men  into  subjection  to  the  will  of  God. 
By  compulsion  he  would  save  every  person,  and  for  so  doing  he 
asked  that  the  honor  and  the  glory  that  are  the  Lord's  should  be 
his. 

There  is  an  example  of  dictatorship  supreme! 
In  contrast  to  this,  Christ's  plan  was  to  give  men  their  free 
agency. 

To  every  man,  says  Joseph  Smith,  is  given  an  inherent  power  to 
do  right  or  to  do  wrong.  In  this  he  has  his  free  agency.  He  may  choose 
the  right  and  obtain  salvation,  or  he  may  choose  evil  and  merit  abomination. 

A  man  may  act  as  his  conscience  dictates  so  long  as  he  does 
not  infringe  upon  the  rights  of  others.  That  is  the  spirit  of  true 
democracy,  and  all  government  by  the  Priesthood  should  be  actuat- 
ed by  that  same  high  motive.    We  are  told, 

The  rights  of  the  Priesthood  are  inseparably  connected  with  the 
powers  of  heaven. 

No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the 
Priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by  long-suffering,  by  gentleness  and  meek- 
ness, and  by  love  unfeigned ; 

Reproving  betimes  with  sharpness,  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy 
Ghost;  and  then  showing  forth  afterwards  an  increase  of  love  toward 
him  whom  thou  hast  reproved,  lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be  his  enemy. 


Christ's  plan  gives  free  agency 


WHERE  PEACE  IS  FOUND 


Peace  is  not  found  in  selfishness,  but  in  striving  to  help  make 
the  world  better  and  happier. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


135 


"There  was  a  time  when  I  was  happy,"  said  Browning's  Par- 
celsus. 

"When  was  that?"  asked  his  friend  Festus. 

The  old  philosopher  answered :  "When,  but  the  time  I  vowed 
myself  to  man." 

And  then  Festus  said :  "Great  God,  thy  judgments  are  in- 
scrutable." 

Then  Parcelsus  continued :  "There  is  an  answer  to  the  pas- 
sionate longings  of  the  heart  for  fullness  and  I  knew  it,  and  the 
answer  is  this :  Live  in  all  things  outside  yourself  by  love,  and  you 
will  have  joy.  That  is  the  life  of  God :  it  ought  to  be  our  life.  In 
him  it  is  accomplished  and  perfect ;  but  in  all  created  things  it  is  a 
lesson  learned  slowly  and  through  difficulty." 

Finally,  the  perfect  peace  comes  to  the  individual  who  has  a 
testimony  of  the  truth  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  That  is  the 
greatest  blessing,  brethren  and  sisters;  all  else  may  be  sacrificed 
rather  than  that.  If  you  would  have  it  then  follow  the  words  of 
the  Savior :  "He  that  will  do  the  will  of  my  Father  which  is  in  Heaven 
shall  know  of  the  doctrine  whether  it  is  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of 
myself." 

How  different  the  peace  of  God  from  that  of  the  world !  It  calms  the 
passions,  preserves  the  purity  of  conscience,  is  inseparable  from  righteous- 
ness, unites  us  to  God,  and  strengthens  us  against  temptation.  The  peace 
of  the  soul  consists  in  an  absolute  resignation  to  the  will  of  God. 

The  way  to  peace  for  individuals  and  nations  is  to  have  "the 
Kingdom  of  God  within  you." 

May  peace  come  to  each  of  us,  and  to  the  whole  world.  I 
humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

GRATEFUL  FOR  BLESSINGS 

My  brothers  and  sisters :  I  am  grateful  for  this  great  conference, 
and  for  the  spirit  that  has  been  with  us  during  its  sessions.  I  am 
grateful  for  the  music  which  we  have  had,  all  of  it,  for  the  great  choir — 
and  we  may  properly  so  term  it — for  its  leader,  Brother  Cornwall,  for 
faithful  Brother  Asper,  and  for  Richard  L.  Evans  and  his  sermonettes, 
which  are  reaching  tens  of  thousands  of  people,  and  the  inspiration  and 
the  spirit  which  will  come  to  him  from  his  new  calling  will  many  fold 
increase  his  influence  in  this  work. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  welfare  plan,  and  for  the  success  which  is 
attending  the  efforts  of  those  who  are  carrying  it  out.  I  thank  the 
general  committee,  the  regional  committees,  the  stake  and  the  ward 
committees,  the  Priesthood  quorums,  and  last,  but  by  no  means  least, 
the  Relief  Society,  who  are  the  "mothers"  of  the  welfare  household. 

I  am  grateful  for  every  blessing  which  has  come  to  us,  which  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Dag 


Lord  has  given  to  us.  He  has  given  us  bounteous  crops,  he  has  given 
us  great  natural  resources,  he  has  provided  us  with  the  necessities  of 
shelter  and  of  clothing,  and  if  anyone  shall  suffer,  it  will  not  be  the 
Lord's  fault,  but  ours.  One  thing  is  required  beyond  everything  else — 
we  must  not  waste  what  God  has  given  to  us. 


Repeated  reference  has  been  made  to  the  great  council  in  heaven, 
and  to  what  it  meant.  One  element  of  it  I  should  like  to  refer  to, 
namely, — what  Satan  then  proposed  to  do  was  to  give  salvation  without 
labor,  that  is,  to  get  something  for  nothing.  This  is  the  spirit  which  is 
abroad  today.  It  is  the  spirit  which  we  must  fight,  or  it  will  destroy 
us. 


Last  night  I  said  something  about  the  up-building  of  hate  in  the 
world,  and  about  foreign  propaganda  with  which  this  whole  nation  is 
being  deluged.  I  warned  that  this  propaganda  does  not  give  us  the 
whole  truth  by  any  means.  I  indicated  that  hate,  aided  by  greed,  avarice, 
and  ambition  could  overwhelm  the  world  in  another  world  war.  I  en- 
treated the  brethren  as  I  now  entreat  you  brethren  and  sisters  to  be  chari- 
table towards  those  people  whom  the  propaganda  would  condemn  un- 
heard. 

I  besought  the  brethren  last  night,  as  I  now  beseech  you,  to  consider 
whether  or  not  we  Americans  who  have  gained  the  most  of  the  land 
which  we  possess — including  that  on  which  we  stand — by  conquest,  and 
whether  or  not  the  other  great  nations  who  have  glutted  themselves  with 
the  spoils  of  conquest,  are  in  a  position  to  condemn  without  mitigation 
some  other  nation  which  is  merely  attempting  to  march  along  the  way 
of  empire  which  we  and  those  other  nations  followed.  I  beseech  you 
not  to  put  yourselves  nor  this  nation  in  the  position  of  whited  sepul- 
chers.  I  loathe  war,  I  loathe  conquest,  I  loathe  oppression,  I  loathe  the 
destruction  of  the  liberties  of  men;  I  love  freedom,  I  love  our  free 
institutions,  but  let  us  not  visit  upon  the  people  themselves  the  sins  of 
their  governments.  Let  us  not  make  a  great  body  of  the  membership 
of  our  Church  feel  that  they  are  outcasts  from  us  because  of  the  acts 
of  their  governments.  Let  us  draw  the  distinction  between  peoples  and 
governments.   Let  us  be  patient  in  our  judgment,  let  us  exercise  charity. 

Righteousness  and  hate  cannot  dwell  in  the  same  heart,  no  matter 
how  great  the  righteousness  nor  how  little  the  hate. 


I  want  now  to  say  a  few  words  to  the  parents,  to  the  teachers  and 
to  the  youth  of  the  Church  about  a  matter  that  seems  to  me  to  be 
of  the  most  far-reaching  importance. 

To  Moses  on  Sinai  came  the  law  of  all  time:  "Thou  shalt  not 
commit  adultery." 


satan's  plan 


WARNING  AGAIST  FOREIGN  PROPAGANDA 


VIOLATION  OF  LAWS  OF  CHASTITY  CONDEMNED 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


137 


The  Master,  Jesus  Christ,  found  his  most  approbrious  term  in  the 
phrase,  "an  adulterous  generation." 

The  Lord  in  His  time  and  in  ours  has  put  adultery  and  fornication 
side  by  side.    Both  are  cardinal  sins. 

The  Church  has  from  the  beginning  demanded  of  its  youth — male 
and  female — one  standard  only,  absolute  continence  until  proper  mar- 
riage has  legalized  and  hallowed  the  sexual  relations.  To  this  there  is 
no  exception.  I  repeat  what  I  have  said  before:  Man  is  a  biological 
unit,  an  animal,  but  he  is  more  than  this,  he  is  the  temple  of  an  immortal 
spirit ;  that  spirit  can  be  defiled  by  the  flesh,  and  defilement  comes  when 
the  laws  of  chastity  are  violated. 

Our  very  civilization  itself  is  based  upon  chastity,  the  sanctity  of 
marriage,  and  the  holiness  of  the  home.  Destroy  these  and  Christian 
man  becomes  a  brute. 

ETERNAL  UNION  A  LOFTY  RELATIONSHIP 

For  Latter-day  Saints  the  family  relationship  continues  through 
eternity.   It  is  the  loftiest  and  most  sacred  human  relationship  we  know. 

To  the  chaste  young  man  and  young  woman  beginning  the  building 
of  a  home  there  is  a  trust,  a  confidence,  a  joy  unspeakable,  an  all  but 
divine  harmony,  that  no  other  purely  human  undertaking  can  bring. 
The  rightful  heritage  of  such  a  beginning  is  a  life  of  righteousness  that 
builds  upward  to  eternal  life. 

To  the  unchaste  who  marry  there  is  ahead  either  a  life  of  distrust, 
lack  of  confidence,  unhappiness,  leading  to  the  divorce  court,  or  a  life 
of  promiscuous  sexual  relationships  that  ends  in  misery,  disease,  and 
sham.    Debauchery  never  gave  birth  to  good  of  any  kind. 

CHASTITY  TO  BE  TAUGHT 

Chastity  is  fundamental  to  our  life  and  to  our  civilization.  If  the 
race  becomes  unchaste,  it  will  perish.  Immorality  has  been  basic  to  the 
destruction  of  mighty  nations  of  the  past ;  it  will  bring  to  dust  the  mighty 
nations  of  the  present.  Every  one  of  us  who  instructs  our  youth  in 
whatever  place  or  position,  and  in  whatever  capacity,  must  teach  the 
young  people  of  today  to  abstain  from  unchastity.  We  must  surround 
our  teachings  with  due  and  proper  reserve  and  modesty.  We  must 
approach  and  teach  the  youth  as  the  children  of  God,  with  spirits  that 
are  to  live  throughout  eternity,  and  tell  them  plainly  and  clearly  that 
the  laws  of  God,  and  of  men  also,  demand  that  they  live  chaste.  If  we 
shall  teach  anything  less  than  this  we  will  destroy  our  youth  and  we 
will  bring  ourselves  under  a  condemnation  which  is  too  great  to  be 
fathomed  by  human  mind,  and  which  God  alone  can  alleviate. 

In  what  I  have  said  I  include  all  of  us  parents.  How  can  we  par- 
ents face  our  Maker  if  we  have  failed  in  one  featherweight  to  meet  the 
duty  which  is  ours  in  these  matters  ?  And  let  us  not  make  the  mistake, 
any  of  us,  of  assuming  that  our  children  are  beyond  temptation  and 
may  not  fall.    This  is  a  delusion  and  a  snare  that  will  bring  us  to  the 


138  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  9  Third  Day 

very  depths.  Let  every  father  and  every  mother,  every  brother  and 
every  sister,  stand  guard  day  and  night,  that  their  loved  ones  be  not 
seized  and  carried  away  by  lust. 

And  now  you  young  people — May  I  directly  entreat  you  to  be  chaste. 
Please  believe  me  when  I  say  that  chastity  is  worth  more  than  life 
itself.  This  is  the  doctrine  my  parents  taught  me ;  it  is  truth.  Better  die 
chaste  than  live  unchaste.  The  salvation  of  your  very  souls  is  concerned 
in  this. 

A  FRIENDSHIP  NOT  TO  BE  TRUSTED 

I  ask  you  to  believe  me  when  I  say  that  whenever  a  man  or  woman, 
young  or  old,  demands  as  the  price  of  his  friendship  that  you  give  up 
the  righteous  standards  of  your  life,  or  any  of  them,  that  man's  friend- 
ship is  not  worth  the  price  he  asks.  You  may  not  trust  that  friendship ; 
he  will  cast  it  off  as  he  does  his  worn-out  coat.  Friendship  is  not  now, 
and  never  was,  the  offspring  of  debauchery  or  unrighteousness. 

I  ask  you  young  women  to  believe  me  further  when  I  say  that  any 
young  man  who  demands  your  chastity  as  the  price  of  his  love,  is  spirit- 
ually unclean,  and  is  offering  something  that  is  not  worth  the  purchase 
price ;  his  love  will  turn  to  ashes  under  your  touch ;  it  will  lead  you  to 
misery  and  shame ;  and  too  often  it  will  curse  you  with  dread  disease. 

To  you  young  men  I  say  that  any  woman  who  comes  to  you  offering 
her  person  outside  of  legal  wedlock,  is  playing  the  harlot. 

The  Lord  has  said  in  our  day :  "For  I  the  Lord  cannot  look  upon 
sin  with  the  least  degree  of  allowance."  (D.  and  C.  1 :39;  Alma  45  :16), 
and  to  Moses  of  old  he  said  that  no  unclean  thing  can  dwell  in  the 
kingdom  of  God  or  in  his  presence.   (Moses  6:57.) 

FORGIVENESS  THROUGH  REPENTANCE 

Yet  there  is  forgiveness  for  the  sinner  who  truly  repents.  God's 
mercy  is  just  as  boundless  as  his  justice.  To  the  woman  taken  in 
adultery,  condemned  to  death  by  the  Mosaic  law,  Jesus  said:  "Go,  and 
sin  no  more."  (John  8:11.)  But  the  heart  must  be  ripened  in  repent- 
ance before  forgiveness  can  come,  and  sorrow  alone  is  not  repentance. 
A  new  and  righteous  life  must  be  led. 

Church  members,  young  and  old,  the  Lord  demands  that  you  be 
chaste ;  the  Church  requires  chastity  from  you  under  penalty  of  disf el- 
lowship  and  excommunication.  If  any  have  already  sinned,  your  brethren 
and  sisters  stand  ready  and  anxious  to  forgive  if  you  shall  come  with  a 
repentant  heart  and  contrite  spirit. 

I  have  spoken  plainly  because  plain  speech  is  necessary.  I  have 
tried  not  to  speak  indelicately.    I  have  not  spoken  lewdly. 

A  WORD  TO  SCOFFERS 

To  the  unbelieving  scoffer  who  says,  "All  you  say  merely  shows 
how  old  and  out  of  date  your  religion  is," — or,  as  one  educator  said, 
"How  much  your  religion  is  of  the  kindergarten  type,"— to  the  scoffers 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BEN  N I  ON 


139 


who  say  that  man  has  outgrown  the  old  God  with  his  rewards  and 
punishments,  his  standards,  and  that  man  must  now  create  for  himself 
a  new  God — and  this  is  at  the  root  of  much  of  the  modern  so-called  phil- 
osophy which  considers  man  as  creating  his  God,  not  God  as  creating 
His  children — to  these  scoffers  it  is  sufficient  to  say  that  thus  have  their 
kind  spoken  since  Cain  tried  to  find  a  better  way  than  the  one  God  had 
provided.  Thus  will  they  always  speak  until  God  shall  close  their  mouths. 

ADVICE  TO  YOUTH 

Youth,  be  not  disturbed.  Be  valiant.  God  lives.  The  Gospel  is 
His  way  of  life.  Follow  the  Gospel  path  to  eternal  life.  "And  this  is 
life  eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee,  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus 
Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent."  (John  17:3.) 

May  the  Lord  give  us  his  Spirit,  bring  home  to  our  hearts  the 
necessity  of  chastity  for  every  man  and  every  woman,  for  every  boy  and 
every  girl,  I  ask,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

For  the  first  time  since  I  became  President  of  the  Church,  we  will 
have  to  fail  to  hear  from  all  of  our  General  Authorities,  and  some  of  our 
Mission  Presidents.   We  cannot  stop  the  clock  like  the  legislature  does. 

Our  next  speaker  will  be  Brother  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  and  after  him 
Brother  John  H.  Taylor. 

Elder  Rufus  K.  Hardy  is  at  home  on  account  of  illness,  but  is 
improving. 

There  are  just  fifteen  minutes  left.  The  brethren  will  have  to  limit 
themselves  to  five  minutes  each,  and  we  shall  ask  the  Mission  Presidents 
to  save  their  speeches,  the  same  as  Brother  Widtsoe  is  doing,  for  the  next 
time.  I  think  we  shall  have  to  have  four  days  of  conference  in  the  future, 
or  not  try  to  crowd  it  all  in  and  let  every  man  who  takes  more  time  than 
he  has  been  requested  learn  not  to  do  it  again,  and  that  would  help  us 
out  a  little. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Since  listening  to  that  fine  junior  choir  that  sang  so  beautifully  for 
us  yesterday  I  have  been  much  impressed  by  the  strength  of  our  boys 
and  girls  in  this  Church.  If  that  same  spirit  of  improvement  is  being 
carried  on  in  all  branches  of  this  Church,  both  in  the  Priesthood  quorums 
and  in  the  auxiliary  organizations,  so  that  every  note  and  expression 
will  ring  as  true  as  did  the  voices  of  this  youthful  choir,  the  Church 
will  make  wonderful  progress  in  the  next  few  years. 

This  Church  has  had  a  continual  and  steady  growth.  My  testimony 
to  all  is  that  the  youth  of  Zion  are  growing  in  faith,  that  they  are  firm 
and  true,  and  that  they  will  hold  the  places  of  those  who  are  older  when 


140  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  9  Third  Day 

these  pass  on,  for  the  youth  of  today  are  the  men  of  tomorrow,  and  the 
training  that  they  receive  every  day  of  their  lives  is  the  thing  that  will 
qualify  them  for  positions  of  trust. 

We  lost,  through  death,  the  leader  of  our  Council,  President  J. 
Golden  Kimball,  whom  so  many  knew  and  loved.  His  departure  is  a  real 
loss  to  us.  In  just  a  short  time,  however,  another  man  has  been  found 
who  will  be  able  to  assist  in  the  responsibilities  of  our  work.  And  so 
the  Lord  provides. 

I  was  in  the  ministry  long  enough  to  see  young  men  fill  missions,  go 
home,  be  married,  and  send  me  their  sons  and  daughters.  I  saw  fine 
improvement  in  them.  I  know  that  the  training  the  father  and  mother 
received  in  the  mission  field  was  carried  over  and  was  evidenced  in  that 
boy  and  girl  who  came  to  me.  I  found  faith  among  the  sons  and  daugh- 
ters of  God  at  home.  I  found  the  fathers  and  mothers  who  had  provided 
the  means  for  the  missionaries  to  accomplish  their  work  and  to  develop 
into  faithful  servants  of  the  Lord  had  in  their  hearts  the  spirit  and  in- 
tegrity of  Latter-day  Saints.  Many  of  them  were  not  heard  of,  many 
of  them  lived  their  quiet  lives,  but  they  contributed  of  their  means  and 
of  all  they  had  for  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel. 

In  one  of  the  stakes  where  I  went  to  hold  conference,  I  noted  in 
the  audience  on  the  first  day  an  aged  brother,  the  kindness  in  whose  eyes 
attracted  me.  I  asked  the  president  of  the  stake  to  call  him  up,  but  the 
president  hesitated.  I  learned  that  the  man's  wife  had  died  and  that  he 
was  living  with  his  children  and  grandchildren.  His  beard  was  unkempt, 
his  hair  likewise.  But  he  attracted  me.  The  second  morning  I  asked 
again  if  this  brother  might  speak.  The  president  said :  "I  am  very  doubt- 
ful about  his  wanting  to  speak." 

In  the  afternoon  that  same  impression  came  to  me  again.  I  said, 
"Go  down  and  ask  him  if  he  wouldn't  like  to  speak.  I  feel  impressed 
to  call  upon  him."  And  when  the  invitation  was  given  the  old  brother 
said :  "Yes,  I  should  like  to  speak,"  and  he  stood  up  and  said :  "I  have 
never  been  called  on  a  mission,  I  have  been  called  on  to  speak  only  once 
or  twice  in  my  life.  I  helped  to  build  the  town  and  make  the  roads  and 
bridges.  I  sent  every  one  of -my  sons  on  missions.  Where  the  money 
came  from  I  do  not  know  but  I  have  kept  my  pledge  with  my  Lord." 

There  are  many  such  in  the  stakes  of  Zion.  I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless 
these  noble  souls  in  their  valiant  endeavors  to  carry  on.  I  pray  that  the 
youth  may  continue  to  measure  up  to  their  glorious  heritage,  and  I  do 
it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  know  I  speak  for  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  when  I  welcome 
Brother  Richard  L.  Evans  as  one  of  our  members.  I  have  known  him 
for  many  years.  His  noble  character  and  fine  intellect  have  been  an  in- 
fluence for  good  wherever  he  has  gone.   His  father  died  when  Richard 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 


141 


was  a  little  boy,  and  was  one  of  the  truest  men  that  ever  lived.  Richard's 
mother  has  reared  a  large  family.  She  has  faced  sorrows  with  fortitude, 
but  always  with  deep  faith  in  the  ways  of  Providence. 

May  I  say  to  President  Grant  and  all  the  brethren  under  whose 
direction  the  First  Council  works,  that  the  Seventies  throughout  the 
Church  are  doing  nobly  in  their  quorum  activities,  and  have  risen  to  the 
call  to  carry  the  Gospel  into  the  homes  of  all  people. 

To  my  brethren  of  the  respective  quorums,  I  should  like  to  remind 
you  of  the  words  of  Paul  the  Apostle  to  Timothy,  when  he  said:. 

When  I  call  to  remembrance  the  unfeigned  faith  that  is  in  thee,  which 
dwelt  first  in  thy  grandmother  Lois,  and  thy  mother  Eunice;  and  I  am 
persuaded  that  in  thee  also. 

Wherefore  I  put  thee  in  remembrance  that  thou  stir  up  the  gift  of 
God,  which  is  in  thee  by  the  putting  on  of  my  hands. 

For  God  hath  not  given  us  the  spirit  of  fear ;  but  of  power,  and  of  love, 
and  of  a  sound  mind. 

That  we  may  go  forward  in  carrying  out  the  wishes  of  the  First 
Presidency  and  the  quorum  of  the  Twelve  to  the  end  that  thousands,  yea 
millions,  of  the  children  of  men  may  be  brought  to  the  knowledge  of  the 
truth,  I  ask  in  His  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 
May  I  relate  these  two  instances : 

Last  week  I  had  the  opportunity  of  going  into  the  Missionary  Home 
for  a  day  or  two  and  meeting  the  splendid  missionaries  who  were  about 
to  leave  for  the  mission  field.  Yesterday,  one  of  the  missionaries  looked 
for  me  all  day  and  when  I  went  over  to  my  missionary  reunion  he  was 
waiting  with  his  father  at  the  door.  Because  of  something  I  had  said 
or  done,  he  desired  that  I  be  the  one  to  ordain  him  to  the  office  of  Seventy. 

When  I  was  twenty  years  of  age  and  went  on  my  first  mission,  as  I 
came  out  of  the  meeting  that  had  been  held  for  my  farewell,  an  old  lady 
who  was  earning  her  living  by  washing  stood  by  the  door  with  a  shawl 
over  her  head.  She  put  a  dollar  into  my  hand  and  said  to  me,  "John, 
it  is  not  very  much  but  I  would  like  you  to  have  it.  I  hope  I  shall  live  to 
welcome  you  back  again,  for  when  I  go  I  would  like  you  to  say  something 
about  me  at  my  funeral,  because  I  love  you." 

The  good  things  we  say  and  the  good  things  we  do  bring  us  happi- 
ness and  joy.  When  we  say  evil  things  or  do  evil  things  in  life,  we  are 
ashamed  and  uncomfortable. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  be  faithful  and  true  to  the  fine  things  in 
life,  so  that  we  might  be  helpful  to  our  fellow  men,  I  humbly  pray,  in 
Jesus'  name,  Amen. 


142  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  9  Third  Dag 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Again  I  express  my  gratitude  for  the  singing  that  we  have  had,  for 
the  wonderful  "Elijah"  oratorio,  for  the  fine  speeches  that  we  have  heard, 
for  the  marvelous  attendance  at  this  Conference,  and  for  the  blessings 
of  the  Lord  that  have  been  with  us. 

INVOKES  BLESSINGS  OPON  THE  PEOPLE 

I  rejoice  beyond  all  else  in  the  growth  of  faith  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  with  all  the  power  and  authority  that  God  has  bestowed  upon 
me — and  I  know  as  I  know  that  I  live  that  he  has  directed  me  from 
boyhood,  that  he  has  heard  and  answered  my  prayers,  that  I  have  had 
revelations,  so  to  speak,  from  the  Lord,  and  have  endeavored  to  carry 
them  out — I  pray  God  to  bless  every  honest-hearted  soul  at  home  or 
abroad.  I  pray  that  what  has  been  said  here  may  sink  deep  into  the 
hearts  of  the  people,  that  we  will  judge  not  that  we  be  not  judged,  and 
that  we  will  not  condemn  people  in  any  of  the  countries  today  that  are 
doing  things  that  we  think  they  ought  not  to  do,  because  many  of  them 
are  doing  what  they  are  doing  because  they  dare  not  do  otherwise,  and 
are  just  as  much  opposed  to  it  as  we  are. 

May  the  spirit  of  peace  and  brotherly  love  grow  among  the  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

Again  may  I  plead  with  the  people  to  get  down  on  their  knees  and 
ask  God  to  direct  them  in  every  act  of  life,  and  then  if  they  get  the  Spirit 
of  God  they  will  feel  happy  and  content  in  what  they  do.  Do  not  do 
something  that  you  can  not  ask  God  to  help  you  to  do.  Grow  in  the  light 
and  knowledge  of  the  Gospel,  and  as  a  servant  of  God  I  promise  you 
peace  and  joy  and  happiness,  in  the  name  of  our  Redeemer,  Amen. 

The  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "Glory  and  Praise  to  God"  (Handel), 
after  which  the  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  William  R.  Ells- 
worth of  the  Maricopa  Stake  Presidency. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


The  musical  exercises  for  the  Friday  morning  session  were  furn- 
ished by  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers,  Wade  N.  Stephens,  Con- 
ductor; at  the  Friday  afternoon  session  by  the  Woodruff  Stake  Choir, 
under  the  direction  of  John  Nielson ;  at  the  Saturday  sessions  by  the 
Moroni  High  School  Choir,  Ray  Anderson,  Conductor ;  and  at  the  Sun- 
day sessions  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor. 
The  congregational  singing  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  and 
Richard  P.  Condie. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played  b> 
Frank  W.  Asper. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


Index 


Anderson,  A.  Lorenzo  121 

Ashton,  Elder  Marvin  O   57 

Authorities  Present    74 

Authorities,  Presentation  of    16 

Backman,  LeGrand  P   84 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J  105 


World  War  brought  hope,  105 — Quick  return  to  worse  conditions, 
105 — Gospel  alone  can  bring  peace,  105 — Perils  to  our  country  will 
come  from  within,  106 — Promises  made  by  the  Lord  regarding 
Zion,  107 — The  Lord's  Plan  must  be  followed,  108. 


Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  O  139 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E   63 

The  Articles  of  Faith,  63 — Honesty  a  requirement,  64 — Business 
men's  opinion,  64 — Covetousness  the  cause  of  dishonesty,  64— 
Consequences  of  dishonesty,  65 — Keeping  of  commandments 
brings  peace,  65 — Civilization  based  on  honesty,  66 — Requirements 
of  the  Golden  Rule,  67. 

• 

Broadcast.  ..  Choir  and  Organ   108 

Broadcast,  Church  of  the  Air  109 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   22 

Peace  a  blessing,  22 — The  story  of  Nineveh's  repentance,  22 — 
Respite  through  prayer,  23 — Prophetic  words,  23 — Joseph  Smith's 
statesmanlike  word,  23 — Lincoln's  plan  to  end  war,  24. 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q.    94 


Missionary  experiences,  94 — Testimony  of  the  truth,  94 — European 
visit  to  examine  into  building  problems,  95 — Uniform  building 
policy  needed,  95 — Efficient  expenditures  of  tithes,  96 — Mission- 
aries, officers  and  members  faithful,  96 — General  conditions  in 
Europe,  97 — Two  major  influences  at  work,  97 — Temptations  of 
the  Savior, — Temptations  of  mankind,  98 — Human  characteristics, 
99 — Which  influence  will  prevail,  99 — Our  privilege  as  Latter- 


day  Saints,  100. 

Changes  in  Church  Officers,   19 

Choir  and  Organ  broadcast   108 

Christiansen,  El  Ray  L  ...102 

Church  of  the  Air  broadcast  109 

Church  Welfare  Committee    18 


144 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  135 

Grateful  for  blessings,  135 — Satan's  plan,  136 — Warning  against 
foreign  propaganda,  136— Violation  of  laws  of  chastity  con- 
demed,  136 — Eternal  union  a  lofty  relationship,  137 — Chastity  to  be 
taught,  137 — A  friendship  not  to  be  trusted,  138 — Forgiveness 
through  repentance,  138 — A  word  to  scoffers,  138 — Advice  to 
youth,  139. 

Clawson,  President  Rudger    33 

Joseph  and  Hyrum  Smith,  33 — Brigham  Young  a  prophet,  33 — 
Five  other  great  leaders,  34 — Experiences  in  the  ministry,  34 — 
Testimony  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  35 — Contact  with  the  adversary,  35. 

Evans,  Elder  Frank   44 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   90 

Eyring,  Elder  Carl  F   43 

First  Day  Afternoon  Meeting    33 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting   2 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church   16 

General  Authorities  Present    1 

General  Auxiliary  Officers  -   18 

General  Officers  of  the  Church   17 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 


Selections  from  "Treasures  I  Would  Share,"  2 — "God  Give  Us 
Men,"  3 — Age,  3 — Work  a  blessing,  3 — Incident  regarding  Presi- 
dent Penrose,  4 — Thrift,  5 — My  Creed,  5 — I  shall  not  pass  again 
this  way,  6 — Three  Lessons,  7 — Favorite  hymns,  7 — The  time  is 
Nigh,  the  Happy  Time,  8 — God  Moves  in  a  Mysterious  Way,  8 — 
Come  Let  Us  Anew,  9 — Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints,  9 — Should  You 
Feel  Inclined  to  Censure,  10 — O  My  Father,  10— -A  Poor  Way- 
faring Man  of  Grief,  11— O  Ye  Mountains  High,  13 — School  Thy 
Feelings,  O  My  Brother,  13— The  Flag  Without  A  Stain,  14— 
The  Word  of  the  Lord,  14 — Thankful  for  knowledge,  15— Idle- 
ness condemned,  15. 


Grant,  President  Heber  J   32 

Urges  care  be  exercised  on  streets  and  highways,  32. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   52 

The  missionary  system  as  an  educator,  53. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  '..  53 

Evan  Stephens'  anthems,  53. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   78 

Thanks  Moroni  High  School  Choir,  78. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   82 

Mission  Presidents  asked  to  limit  their  remarks,  82. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  104 

Observe  the  Sabbath,  10. 


INDEX 


145 


Grant,  President  Heber  J  121 

Urges  care  on  the  highways,  121. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J.    139 

Not  sufficient  time  to  hear  from  all,  139 — Elder  Hardy  absent  be- 
cause of  illness,  139. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J.  142 

Invokes  blessings  upon  the  people,  142. 

Hinckley,  Elder  Bryant  S.   51 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R  -  40 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R.   109 

Joy  in  missionary  work,  109 — Sacrifice  required,  109 — Living  the 
Gospel  brings  testimony,  1 10 — Brief  report  of  European  Mission, 
111 — Lives  of  converts  transformed,  111 — Blessings  of  missionary 
work  far  reaching,  112 — Prophecies  being  fulfilled,  113. 

MacDonald,  Elder  W.  Aird   75 

McKay,  President  David  O.       16 

Sustaining  of  Authorities,  16. 

McKay,  President  David  O     130 

Purposes  of  Conferences,  130 — Growth  of  the  Church,  131 — Com- 
mendation of  Welfare  workers,  132 — Peace  the  message  of  the 
Church,  133 — Christ's  plan  gives  free  agency,  134 — Where  peace 
is  found,  134. 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F.   31 

By  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them,  78 — Latter-day  Saints  should 
live  up  to  professions,  79 — Satan  seeks  to  overcome  saints,  79 — 
The  Golden  Rule  not  operating  in  world  struggles,  80 — Duty  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  82.  • 

Nibley,  Elder  Preston  100 

Pratt,  Elder  Harold  W.   83 

Rees,  Elder  Thomas  D.    .  74 

Rich,  Elder  Abel  S     87 

Richards,  Elder  George  F.    54 

Fruits  are  evidence  of  the  work  of  the  Lord,  54 — Testimony  as  to 
divinity  of  Latter-day  work,  54 — Leaders  of  Church  have  carried 
on  the  work,  55 — Christ's  part  in  the  rebellion  in  heaven,  56 — The 
Word  of  Wisdom  given  as  the  will  of  God,  57. 

Richards,  Elder  Le Grand      47 

A  marvelous  work,  47 — The  power  of  God  manifest,  47 — A  Church 
for  the  youth,  48 — Opportunity  for  all,  49 — Achievements  through 
Gospel's  restoration,  49 — Power  of  revelation  continues,  49 — Ac- 
complishments of  Welfare  Program,  50 — Effect  on  Church  mis- 
sionary system,  51. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L  114 

Friendly  ties  in  Priesthood,  114 — A  common  purpose  necessary, 
114 — Private  interpretations  of  doctrine  harmful,  115 — Presidency 
interpreters  of  God's  laws,  115 — Thoughtless  criticism  unprofit- 
able, 115 — Attendance  at  meetings  brings  unity,  117 — True  bro- 
therhood in  quorums,  118 — Unity  brings  success,  118. 


146 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   78 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting   54 

Smith,  Elder  David  A  123 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert      25 


Our  early  hymn  books,  25 — Preface  to  the  fourteenth  edition,  26 — 
A  prophetic  hymn,  26— Missionary  work  in  the  South  Sea  islands, 
27 — Among  the  Maoris,  28 — Preaching  the  Gospel  in  Australia,  28 
— Illness  of  Brother  Hardy,  29 — Friendliness  manifested  by  gov- 
ernment officials,  29 — Native  clothing,  30 — Men  of  wisdom  and 
ability,  31 — For  the  blessing  of  mankind,  31. 


Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding    36 

The  command  to  remember  the  Sabbath  day,  36 — The  land  to  ob- 
serve the  Sabbath,  36 — The  counsel  of  Latter-day  leaders,  38 — 
Present  day  customs  decried,  39. 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed   124 

Joseph  Smith's  sayings,  124 — A  tribute  to  Joseph  Smith,  124 — 
Definition  of  can't,  124— Development  through  work,  125 — True 
riches,  126 — Strength  of  the  Church,  127. 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H    141 

Tew,  Elder  William  T.,  Jr    119 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting  121 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting    104 

Ursenbach,  Elder  Octave  F   85 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S.    60 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A.   127 

Testimony  as  to  divinity  of  work,  128 — Evidences  of  the  truth  are 
plain  to  be  seen,  128 — Simple  things  lead  to  great  truths,  129 — 
Concluding  testimony,  130. 

Wirthlin,  Elder  Joseph  L   69 

Woodruff.  Elder  Elias  S.   72 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar  140 


(BddIl 

The  Deseret  Book  Company  is  headquarters  for  all 
L.  D.  S.  publications,  as  well  as  for  general  books  of 
every  kind.  We  especially  call  your  attention  to  the 
following  books,  on  sale  here: 

Program  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
1  Latter-day  Saints,  by  John  A.  Widtsoe..$1.25  (plus 

,  postage) 

A  Rational  Theology 

by  J.  A.  Widtsoe  $1.00  (postpaid) 

A  Century  of  Mormonism  in  Great  Britain, 

by  Richard  L.  Evans  $1.25  (postpaid) 

Romance  of  the  Book  of  Mormon, 

by  Josiah  E.  Hickman.  $2.50  (postpaid) 

Progress  of  Man, 

by  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  $1.50  (postpaid) 

Whatever  your  book  needs,  consult  us  first.  We  have 
the  most  comprehensive  stock  of  books  in  the  inter- 
mountain  region,  and  we  specialize  in  books  about  the 
Mormons  and  the  West.  We  invite  your  inquiries. 

Expert  Service  by  Mail. 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

44  East  South  Temple,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Teachings  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith 

Taken  from  his  sermons  and  writings  as  they  are 
found  in  the  Documentary  History  and  other 
publications  of  the  Church  and  written 
or  published  in  the  days  of  the 
Prophet's  ministry 


Selected  and  arranged  by  the  Historian,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith, 
and  his  Assistants  in  the  Historian's  Office  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 


Many  of  these  discourses  and  writings  appear  in  the  Doc- 
umentary History  of  the  Church,  but  others  have  not  been  in- 
cluded in  these  volumes,  but  are  scattered  through  the  early 
publications  of  the  Church.  It  has  been  difficult  even  for  the 
student  to  obtain  these  because  the  old  publications  are  not 
accessible  for  general  use. 

In  accordance  with  the  many  calls  that  have  been  made 
that  there  be  a  more  extensive  compilation  of  these  discourses 
and  sayings,  the  matter  was  taken  up  in  the  Historian's  Office 
and  such  a  compilation  has  been  prepared,  submitted  to  the 
First  Presidency  and  passed  by  them  for  publication. 

Price  $2.25 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


