p3  >l 
EIGHTY-EIGHTH  ANNUAL 

CONFERENCE 

Of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly 
Hall,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  April  5th, 
6th  and  7th,  1918,  with  a  Full  Report 
of  the  Discourses 

25  Cents 

PUBLISHED  BY  THE  DESERET  NEWS 




NEW  BOOKS 


THE  WAY  OF  ETERNAL  LIFE— An  explanation 
of  the  doctrines  of  the  gospel,  written  especiaUy 
for  young  folks,  by  Edwin  F.  Parry  75  cts. 

THE  MAN  OF  TOMORROW— By  Claude  Richards. 
A  discussion  of  Vocational  Success  with  the  boys 
of  today.    Beautifully  illustrated  $1.00 

WHITNEYS  POPULAR  HISTORY  OF  UTAH 
A  complete  and  up-to-date  History  in  one  volume. 
Over  600  pages,  250  views  and  portraits  of  the 
Founders  and  Builders  of  the  State. 

Large  Octavo  Vol. — Cloth  Embossed  $2.00 

Large  Octavo  Vol. — Half  Morocco   2.50 

JESUS  THE  CHRIST— By  Elder  James  E.  Talmage. 
A  study  of  the  Messiah  and  His  Mission  according 
to  Holy  Scriptures  both  Ancient  and  Modern, 

Regular  Edition,  three-quarters  leather  $1.50 

NEW  INDIA  PAPER  EDITION 

FRENCH  MOROCCO,  Divinity  Circuit,  red 
under  gold  edges,  headband  and  marker,  cloth 
lined   |2.50 

FRENCH  MOROCCO,  Divinity  Circuit,  red 
under  edges,  headband  and  marker,  leather 
lined  to  edge   $3  00 

TURKEY  MOROCCO,  Divinity  Circuit,  red  un- 
der  gold  edges,  headband  and  marker,  leather 
lined  to  edge   3  50 


DESERET  NEWS  BOOK  STORE 

No.  6  MAIN  STREET    -     SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


Eighty-eighth  Annual  Conference 

Of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 


FIRST  DAY. 


The  Eighty-eighth  Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake 
City,  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Friday, 
April  5,  1918,  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith  presiding. 

AUTHORITIES  PRESENT. 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Joseph 

F.  Smith,  Anthon  H.  Lund,  and 
Charles  W.  Penrose ;  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles :  Heber  J. 
Grant,  Rudger  Clawson,  *,  George 
Albert  Smith,  *  Orson  F.  Whit- 
ney, David  O.  McKay,  Anthony  W. 
Ivins,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr.,  James 
E.  Talmage,  and  Stephen  L.  Rich- 
ards ;  Presiding  Patriarch  Hyrum 

G.  Smith ;  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy:  Seymour  B.  Young,  **, 
J.  Golden  Kimball,  **,  Joseph  W. 
McMurrin,  and   Charles  H.  Hart, 


*Reed  Smoot  was  absent  in  Wash- 
ington; and  George  F.  Richards,  in 
England,,  presiding  over  the  European 
Mission. 

**Brigham  H.  Roberts,  was  on  duty 
at  Camp  Kearny,  California,  as  Chap- 
lain of  the  145th  Field  Artiilery  (1st 
Utah).  Levi  Edgar  Young,  detained 
at  his  duties  in  the  University  of  Utah, 
and  Rulon  S.  Wells,  unavoidably  ab- 
sent, were  present  at  subsequent 
meetings. 


** ;  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric : 
Charles  W.  Nibley,  Orrin  P.  Miller, 
and  David  A.  Smith ;  Assistant  His- 
torians, Andrew  Jenson  and  A.  Wil- 
liam Lund.  There  were  present 
many  Presidents  of  stakes  with 
their  Counselors,  Patriarchs,  Bish- 
ops of  wards,  and  numerous  other 
prominent  men  representing  quo- 
rums of  the  Priesthood,  and  men 
and  women  representing  the  aux- 
iliary organizations  of  the  Church. 

The  following  Presidents  of  Mis- 
sions were  present :  Walter  P. 
Monson,  Eastern  States  ;  Samuel  O. 
Bennion,  Central  States ;  German  E. 
Ellsworth,  Northern  States ;  Charles 
A.  Callis,  Southern  States ;  John  L. 
Herrick,  Western  States ;  Joseph  E. 
Robinson,  California;  Melvin  J. 
Ballard,  Northwestern  States ;  Rey 
L.  Pratt,  Mexico;  Benjamin  God- 
dard,  Bureau  of  Information,  Tem- 
ple Block. 

Pres:dent  Joseph  F.  Smith  called 
the  great  congregation  to  order. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 
"Come,  come,  ye  Saints." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered 
by  EHer  Henry  H.  Rolapp. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  hymn :  "Zion  stands  with  hills 
surrounded." 


1 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

I  feel  very  thankful,  beyond  my  words  for  expression,  to  have  the 
privilege  that  I  have  of  meeting-  with  you  this  morning,  and  I  am  de- 
lighted to  see  the  number  who  are  assembled  here  at  the  opening  session 
of  this  Eighty-eighth  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Chr.st 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  feel  to  thank  you  for  your  presence  here  this 
morning,  for  to  me  it  is  an  evidence  of  your  interest  in  the  great  cause 
in  which  we  are  engaged.  I  feel  that  the  spirit  of  the  gospel,  which  is 
the  Sp:rit  of  the  Lord,  will  accompany  us  through  the  sessions  of  this 
conference  as  an  evidence  of  the  faith,  good  desire  and  faithfulness  of 
those  who  have  assembled  this  morning  and  who  will  continue  to  meet 
with  us  through  its  sessions. 

PHYSICALLY  AILING,  BUT  SPIRITUALLY  STEADFAST. 

It  is  an  unusual  thing  for  me  to  attempt  to  make  any  apology  for 
myself,  but  I  am  in  a  condition  of  health  just  at. this  time  which  may  pre- 
vent me  from  taking  so  active  a  part  at  this  session  of  our  conference  as 
I  have  usually  taken.  I  hope  there  is  nothing  very  serious  the  matter  with 
me,  more  especially  regarding  my  faith  in  the  work  of  the  Lord  and  my 
love  for  God's  truth.  I  may  have  physical  ailments,  but  it  appears  to  me 
that  my  spiritual  status  not  only  remains  steadfast  as  in  times  past,  but  is 
developing,  growing,  becoming  more  thoroughly  established  in  the  faith 
of  the  gospel,  in  the  love  of  truth,  and  in  a  desire  to  devote  all  the  energy, 
time,  wisdom  and  ability  the  Lord  may  give  to  me  to  advance  his  cause  in 
the  earth  and  to  help  all  I  can  to  build  up  Zion  in  these  latter  days. 

HOME  INDUSTRY. 

I  have  many  things  on  my  mind  that  I  would  like  to  refer  to,  but  I 
feel  that  it  would  be  wisdom  for  me  to  leave  the  heft  of  the  speaking  to 
my  brethren,  this  morning.  However,  I  wish  to  mention  some  things 
which  I  think  should  be  brought  to  the  attention  of  our  people  throughout 
the  length  and  breadth  of  the  land ;  and  I  will  simply  refer  to  a  few  things 
for  a  moment  os  two  in  order  that  they  may  serve  as  a  text,  perhaps,  for 
some  others  who  may  succeed  me  in  speaking  to  you.  In  the  good  old 
davs  of  President  Young,  the  doctrine  of  self-sustenance,  of  home  manu- 
factories, of  local  providence  in  all  things  necessary  to  .sustain  the  people 
of  God  and  the  inhabitants  of  th:s  intermountain  region,  were  subjects 
that  were  dwelt  upon  very  much,  and  although  a  little  old  are  still  new 
and  deserving  the  attention  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  especially,  and  not 
•only  Latter-day  Saints  but  all  the  people  of  this  intermountain  country. 
In  early  days  we  sought  to  be  content  and  to  be  happy  by  using  those 
things  which  we  could  as  far  as  possible  produce  at  home.  The  condi- 
tions of  those  days  made  it  necessary  for  us  to  be  economical  and  for  us 
to  make  an  effort  on  our  part  to  provide  everything  as  far  as  possible  by 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


3 


our  own  energy  and  skill,  that  we  needed.  But  we  have  advanced  in 
wealth  ;  money  has  become  easier  to  get  and  more  plentiful ;  transportation 
across  the  deserts  and  from  distant  parts  of  our  country  has  become  easy, 
and  it  has  become  so  simple  and  so  easy  to  buy  the  shoddy  which  is  a  few 
cents  less  per  yard,  or  piece,  which  is  manufactured  in  great  manufactories 
in  the  East  or  in  Europe,  by  labor  which  is  compensated  for  at  the  least 
possible  wages,  and  shipped  easily  to  this  country,  that  we  prefer  to 
patronize  the  laborers  that  are  afar  off  to  patronizing  those  who  are  in 
our  own  midst  and  who  would  be  depending  upon  the  patronage  of  the 
people  of  this  intermountain  region  to  support  them  in  their  labors.  We 
have  sought  to  manufacture  clothing  in  our  Provo  Woolen  Mills  and  in 
other  of  our  manufactories  that  have  been  from  time  to  time  established 
in  the  early  days,  but  the  goods  that  have  been  manufactured  in  Provo, 
which  surpassed  very  far  in  real  value  the  imported  articles. of  a  similar 
kind,  because  they  were  made  of  whole  wool,  had  to  seek  a  market  in 
New  York  and  in  San  Francisco,  and  in  Europe,  because  the  people  at 
home  would  not  patronize  home  made  goods.  Why?  Because  they  could 
not  be  made  quite  as  cheap  as  imported  shoddy !  These  are  facts,  for  I 
have  been  associated  with  this  factory  somewhat  in  years  past,  and  I 
know  whereof  I  speak.  It  is  an  easy  matter  now  to  get  a  great  many 
things  from  the  East,  and  from  the  West,  and  pay  our  money  out  for 
them,  which  we  ought  to  produce  at  home ;  and  there  are  a  great  many 
things  brought  into  our  country  that  we  purchase  with  our  money  that 
we  do  not  need  at  all,  and  which  ought  never  to  be  imported  for  the  use 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

SOME  SURPRISING  FACTS. 

No  Latter-day  Saint  has  any  use  for  tobacco  in  any  form,  and  yet 
many  thousands  of  dollars  are  paid  out  annually  for  this  noxious  weed 
which  is  grown  in  the  south,  manufactured  in  the  south  and  shipped  here, 
of  course,  for  the  money  it  takes  away,  and  otherwise  merely  to  do  you 
harm,  and  absolutely  no  good.  It  was  .surprising  to  me  to  learn  that  we 
actually  ship  eggs  by  the  ton  from  various  distant  states,  into  Utah.  It 
appears  to  me  that  it  is  really  a  shame  and  a  disgrace  to  our  credit  and 
good  name,  that  the  people  of  this  intermountain  region,  the  farmers,  the 
ranchers,  the  home-makers,  and  home-dwellers,  cannot  raise  poultry 
enough  to  supply  themselves  and  the  market  at  home  with  eggs  and 
chickens,  instead  of  having  to  import  them  from  abroad.  Why  cannot 
we  make  our  own  butter  and  our  own  cheese,  at  home  ?  Why  would  not 
these  industries  pay  our  own  people  as  well  as  they  would  pay  or  profit 
others?  Surely  they  would,  if  our  people  would  be  as  loyal  in  supporting 
them  in  their  labors  and  in  their  manufactories  as  we  are  loyal  to  those 
that  are  far  away. 

The  matter  has  been  called  to  our  attention  of  late  that  we  are  im- 
porting a  great  deal  more  into  Utah  and  into  the  principal  cities  of  Utah 
than  we  are  exporting  abroad.  We  are  allowing  our  fruit  year  after  year 
to  rot  on  the  ground  by  the  ton,  if  not  by  the  hundreds  of  tons,  when  a 
few  years  ago  we  were  sufficiently  interested  in  home  preservation  and 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


home  production  that  we  would  dry  some  of  our  peaches  and  some  of  our 
apples  that  are  now  going  to  waste,  for  winter  use  and  for  transportation 
abroad.  We  have  quit  it.  .  Scarcely  any  one  will  .dry  a  peach  now!  I 
have  been  trying,  year  after  year,  to  get  a  few  dried  peaches  to  help  eke 
out  my  provender  during  the  winter  season  for  my  family;  and  there  is 
nowhere  that  I  can  get  good  dried  peaches  in  Utah,  and  yet  they  are 
wasting  by. the  hundreds  of  tons,  by  the  tens  of  thousands  of  dollars 
worth,  because  they  are  not  taken  care  of  properly.  This  is  wrong.  We 
should  adopt  the  rule  to  live  within  our  own  means,  and  attempt,  at  least, 
again  to  save  the  products  of  the  soil,  the  products  of  our  herds,  and  of 
our  flocks,  import  as  little  as  possible,  and  supply  as  much  as  we  possibly 
can  for  our  own  support,  and  for  transportation. 

A  STRANGE  KIND  OF  ECONOMY. 

We  have  been  having  the  doctrine  of  economy  thrust  down  our 
throats  for  all  it  is  worth  recently,  to  such  an  extent  that  we  scarcely 
know  sometimes  where  we  are  at.  A  poor  man  will  go  to  the  store  to 
get  twenty-five  or  fifty  pounds  of  flour,  and  the  storekeepers  will  compel 
him  to  buy  at  least  twenty-five  or  fifty  pounds  of  some  other  material  that 
he  doesn't  want  or  need,  or  know  what  to  do  with,  if  he  had  it,  and  he  is 
.compelled  to  buy  it  or  go  without  the  flour.  That  is  a  strange  kind  of 
economy  for  the  poor  people.  A  poor  man  goes  to  the  store  and  he  says, 
"I  want  twenty-five  pounds  of  flour."  "All  right,  you  have  got  to  buy 
twenty-five  pounds  of  bran  or  of  something  else"  which  he  does  not  need, 
and  pay  a  good  deal  more  for  it,  before  he  can  get  his  flour.  What? 
The  poor  man  under  the  necessity,  when  he  must  have  a  little  flour  for 
bread — (and  he  can't  afford  to  go  to  the  bakers  to  get  it,  because  they 
have  raised  so  high  on  their  prices  that  he  can't  afford  to  go  there  to  buy 
bread,)  and  he  must  get  the  flour  and  let  his  wife  bake  it,  but  he  is  told 
that  he  can't  have  flour  unless  he  will  buy  at  least  one  and  one-fourth 
more  material  of  one  kind  or  another  of  greater  cost  to  him  than  the 
flour  will  be. 

THE  REMEDY. 

It  would  be  a  mighty  good  thing  if  every  farmer,  gardener,  owner  of 
an  orchard  or  a  hennery,  or  a  flock  of  sheep,  or  any  other  means  of  sub- 
sistence in  the  land,  would  provide  for  themselves  everything  that  they 
need  at  home,  and  not  go  to  the  stores  at  all  unless  the  store  keepers  would 
treat  them  fairly.  I  have  no  fault  to  find  with  stores  nor  with  the  keepers 
of  them.  They  are  necessary  in  their  spheres  of  business.  But  I  would 
not  go  to  a  store  to  get  what  I  did  not  need,  nor  what  I  could  produce  for 
myself ;  there  are  many  things  people  can  do  without  with  profit  to 
themselves. 

Who  am  I  finding  fault  with?  I  don't  want  to  find  fault  with  any- 
body, nor  with  anybody's  methods  of  economy.  I  am  not  doing  this  in 
the  spirit  of  fault-finding.    I  am  saying  what  I  am,  in  the  spirit  that  we 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  P.  SMITH: 


5 


should  provide  for  ourselves  so  that  we  will  not  be  dependent  upon  im- 
ported goods,  more  especially  dependent  for  flour  imported  from  abroad 
instead  of  producing  flour  at  home  and  to  transport  abroad.  Utah,  by  its 
irrigation  system,  can  almost  beat  the  world  in  raising  more  bushels  of 
wheat  to  the  acre  than  can  be  raised  anywhere  else. 

Now,  I  wanted  at  least  to  say  this  much  to  you,  that  we  ought  not 
to  spend  our  means  in  importing  into  our  country  things  we  can  raise  at 
home ;  and  surely  not  those  things  that  are  injurious,  nauseating  and 
hurtful  .to  life.  We  ought  to  let  them  alone.  I  don't  believe  that  it  is 
really  necessary  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  import  tea  and  ooffee  into 
Utah.  I  believe  they  could  makeshift  with  something  more  simple,  some- 
thing less  injurious,  perhaps,  than  these  things  that  are  more  or  less  stim- 
ulating and  not  nourishing,  the  effects  of  which  are  more  injurious  than 
beneficial. 

LOYAL  TO  THE  GOVERNMENT. 

I  wish  to  say  this,  there  isn't  a  feeling  in  my  soul  nor  in  any  fibre  of 
my  being  that  is  disloyal  to  the  Government  of  the  United  States  or  to 
the  desire  that  we  have  in  our  souls  to  maintain  the  principles  of  indi- 
vidual and  National  liberty,  justice  and  freedom  that  have  been  estab- 
lished in  the  Constitution  of  our  country.  I  believe  in  the  Constitution  of 
the  United  States.  I  believe  in  the  principles  which  that  instrument  pro- 
mulgates— the  freedom  of  mankind  to  do  right,  to  worship  God  according 
to  the  dictates  of  their  own  consc'ence,  freedom  to  pursue  their  way  in 
peace  and  to  observe  and  maintain  their  rights,  their  freedom,  their  liber- 
ties, and  justly  recognize  and  equally  preserve  and  defend  the  rights, 
freedom  and  liberty  of  their  neighbors  and  of  their  fellow  bemgs — and  of 
all  of  God's  creatures.  I  believe  that  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States 
was  and  still  is  an  inspired  instrument.  The  Lord  God  Almighty  inspired 
the  minds  that  framed  it,  and  I  believe  it  ought  to  be  most  sacredly  pre- 
served. It  is  worthy  of  the  defense  and  should  be  upheld  by  all  the  people 
of  our  land.  I  cannot  say  that  I  indorse  always  some  of  the  acts 'of 
leading  men.    Now,  the  Lord  bless  you. 

FINANCIAL,  SOCIAL  AND  STATISTICAL  FACTS. 

I  had  prepared  a  few  items  that  I  wanted  to  name.  I  am  going  to 
depart  from  my  intended  rule  this  morning,  and  finish  while  I  am  on  my 
feet.  It  may  be  a  source  of  information  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  at  least, 
and  will  be  gratifying  to  them  to  know  in  some  measure  what  has  become 
of  their  tithes  and  of  their  offerings  which  have  been  handled  by  the 
bishops  of  the  Church,  and  which  have  come  into  the  office  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric,  where  the  strictest  possible  accounts  have  been  kept  of 
them.  I  have  had  the  B:shor>'s  office  jot  down  for  me  a  few  items  that 
I  will  take  the  liberty,  since  I  am  on  my  feet,  and  am  stronger  than  I 
thought  I  would  be.  to  read  to  you : 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


There  have  been  expended  in  the  stakes  and  wards  for  local 
purposes,  of  the  tithes,  in  1917,  divided  among  all  the  local 
organizations  of  the  Church  $751,978.00 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  and  up-keep  of  temples,  includ- 
ing repairs  on  the  St.  George  and  the  Logan  temples, 
which  latter  suffered  some  considerable  loss  by  fire  during 

the  same  year    111,036.00 

Expended  on  the  constructon  of  the  Cardston  and  Hawaiian 

temples,  during  1917    126,745.00 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  the  Church 

schools,  1917    368,028.00 

Expended  for  charitable  purposes,  including  hospitals   320,963.00 

Expended  for  mission  purposes,  including  the  erection  of  mis- 
sion houses  and  chapels   335,861.00 

Expended  for  the  completion  of  the  new  Church  Office  Build- 
ing, 1917   154,878.00 

Tithe  payers  that  we  have  on  record  number  87,663 

People  who  paid  fast  offerings  during  1917  number  47,820 

Wards  and  independent  branches  number  .t   839 

Number  of  .stakes    75 

Number  of  missions   22 

The  birth  rate  among  .the  Latter-day  Saints  is  37  to  each  1,000 
Church  members. 

The  marriage  rate  is  17  to  each  1,000  Church  members. 

The  death  rate  is  8.1  to  each  1,000  Church  members. 

There  are  33  widows  to  each  1,000  Church  members,  and  there  are  7 
widowers  to  each  1,000  Church  members.  If  they  are  not  too  old  they 
ought  to  get  married  aga:n. 

The  divorced  after  Temple  marriage  are  80  persons. 

The  divorced  after  Civil  marriage,  101  persons.  That  will  prove  to 
you,  I  judge,  that  a  Church  marriage  is  very  much  .stronger  and  more 
binding  than  a  civil  marriage. 

Families  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  own  their  own  homes,  80 
per  cent. 

Since  our  last  conference,  the  following  changes  have  taken  place 
among  the  Presidents  of  Stakes,  Presidents  of  Missions,  etc. : 

Bear  River  stake,  Peter  M.  Hansen,  appointed  to  succeed  Milton  H. 
Welling. 

Montpelier  stake,  formerly  a  part  of  Bear  Lake  stake,  Edward  C. 
Rich  appointed  pres:dent. 

Bear  Lake  stake,  William  L.  Rich,  appointed  to  succeed  Joseph  R. 
Shepherd. 

Nebo  stake,  Joseph  Reece  succeeded  the  late  Jonathan  S.  Page,  Jr., 
who  recently  passed  away. 

Samoan  Mission,  Ernest  Wright  has  been  released  and  Willard  A. 
Keith  appointed  to  succeed  him  as  president. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


7 


The  following'  bishops  have  passed  away :  Lars  P.  Nielson  of  the 
Ovid  ward,  Bear  Lake  stake ;  Charles  L.  M.  Milne,  Union  ward,  Jordan 
stake,  and  Robert  McQuarrie  of  the  Ogden  Second  ward,  Weber  stake. 

The  following-  brethren  laboring  in  the  mission  field  have  passed 
away :  Arnold  Joseph  Kunzler,  Rosetta,  Utah,  died  in  the  Central  States 
Mission,  at  Springfield,  Mo.,  October  8,  1917,  of  typhoid  fever.  Joseph 
F.  Seeley,  Mount  Pleasant,  Utah,  died  in  the  Central  States  Mission, 
March  29,  1918,  of  heart  failure. 

Now,  I  shall  most  happily  turn  over  the  remaining  part  of  the  services 
of  this  meeting,  perhaps  through  the  conference,  to  my  brethren. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

I  feel  happy  this  morning  that  our  President  has  been  able  to  speak 
unto  us  and  to  give  us  the  key-note  for  the  conference.  He  has  the  love 
of  the  Saints,  and  they  all  pray  that  his  life  may  be  spared  and  that  he 
may  be  strengthened  to  overcome  his  affk'ction.  We  like  to  hear  his 
voice,  we  like  to  be  in  his  company,  and  we  ask  the  Lord  to  spare  his  life 
yet  many  years  for  the  good  of  the  Saints.  I  have  listened  with  interest 
to  the  remarks  he  has  made  this  morning. 

THE  WORD  OF  WISDOM. 

President  Smith  alluded  to  certain  things  that  we  ought  not  to  import, 
and  I  thousfht  of  reading  to  vou  just  a  few  paragraphs  of  that  blessed 
Word  of  Wisdom  which  the  Lord  has  given  unto  the  Saints,  a  word  of 
wisdom  indeed,  and  many  of  those  who  do  not  belong  to  our  religion,  but 
understand  what  is  harmful  and  what  is  good  for  the  human  body,  ac- 
knowledge that  it  is  wholesome  advice  to  all.    The  Lord  says : 

And,  a o-ain,  strong  drinks  are  not  for  the  belly  but  for  the  washing  of 
your  bodies. 

And  again,  tobacco  is  not  for  the  body,  neither  for  the  belly,  and  is  not 
good  for  man,  but  is  an  herb  for  bruises  and  all  sick  cattle,  to  be  used  with 
judgment  and  skill. 

And  ag;ain,  hot  drinks  are  not  for  the  body  or  belly. 

And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  all  wholesome  herbs  God  hath  ordained 
for  the  constitution,  nature,  and  us.e  of  man. 

Every  herb  in  the  season  thereof,  and  every  fruit  in  the  season  thereof,  all 
these  to  be  used  with  prudence  and  thanksgiving. 

Yea,  flesh  also  of  beasts  and  of  the  fowls  of  the  air,  I,  the  Lord,  have 
ordained  for  the  use  of  man  with  thanksgiving;  nevertheless  they  are  to  be 
used  sparingly; 

And  it  is  pleasing  unto  me  that  they  should  not  be  used  only  in  times  of 
winter,  or  of  cold,  or  famine. 

All  grain  is  ordained  for  the  usie  of  man  and  of  beasts,  to  be  the  staff  of 
life,  not  only  for  man.  but  for  the  beasts  of  the  field,  and  the  fowls  of  heaven, 
and  all  wild  animals  that  run  or  creep  on  the  earth; 

And  these  hath  God  made  for  the  use  of  man,  only  in  times  of  famine 
and  excess  of  hunger. 


s 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ADVANTAGES  OF  PROHIBITION. 

I  believe  that  we  will  be  both  healthier  and  richer  if  we  follow  the 
advice  not  to  partake  of  the  things  forbidden  therein.  I  am  glad  that  our 
State  has  prohibition,  and  I  hope  that  the  time  will  come  when  all  of  our 
neighboring  states  will  follow  suit,  and  pass  laws  against  the  manufacture 
and  use  of  intoxicating  drinks.  If  they  do  pass  such  laws  as  we  have  here 
in  Utah  and  Idaho,  I  believe  that  the  bootleggers'  profession  will  soon  be 
at  an  end,  and  I  certainly  hope  that  we  will  be  able  to  cope  with  that  class 
of  men  who  are  in  favor  of  making  a  living  by  selling  these  destructive 
things.  I  believe  that  the  people  living  under  prohibition  laws  will  be 
able  to  save  more  means  than  those  who  live  where  the  saloon  is  licensed, 
with  which  savings  they  will  be  able  to  make  the  family  comfortable,  to 
build  better  homes  and  to  help  to  sustain  our  Nation  in  its  time  of  need. 
I  would  advise  all  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  make  a  study  of  the  words  I 
have  read  to  you  th:s  morning  and  to  obey  them.  We  call  it  the  Word 
of  Wisdom.  It  is,  and  the  Lord  has  given  it  to  us  for  our- good.  He  is 
not  depriving  us  of  pleasure  or  of  enjoyment  in  forbidding  these  things. 
Those  who  enjoy  them  do  so  by  first  accustoming  themselves  to  the  use  of 
them.  Tobacco  is  not  nourishing;  in  fact,  it  is  opposed  to  good  digestion, 
and  gives  pleasure  only  to  such  as  have  created  a  desire  for  it,  and  can 
hardly  be  without  it,  having  created  so  strong  a  habit  that  instead  of 
being  master  of  it  they  become  its  servant  and  slave.  Latter-day  Saints 
should  make  themselves  free,  free  from  habits  that  are  injurious,  and  they 
should  have  strength  enough  to  abstain  from  that  which  is  not  good  for 
the  body,  as  well  as  to  abstain  from  doing  things  that  are  hurtful  to  the 
spirit. 

THE  CARE  AND  EDUCATION  OF  CHILDREN. 

I  would  like  to  allude  to  another  matter.  The  Lord  has  blessed  us 
with  children,  and  to  most  of  the  parents  they  are  their  most  precious 
gifts.  We  ought  to  look  after  our  children,  brethren  and  sisters.  We 
hear  reports  from  juvenile  courts  that  cause  us  sorrow  and  regret,  that  is, 
regret  for  those  who  have  not  watched  their  children  and  taken  care  of 
them.  Children  raised  in  loving  homes  are  not  as  exposed  or  as  likely  to  be 
led  astray  as  are  those  who  have  homes  where  instead  of  love  there  is 
quarreling  between  their  parents  who  have  formed  habits  of  degrading 
vice.  Fathers  and  mothers,  take  care  of  your  children,  see  that  they  are 
properly  taught,  see  to  it  that  they  do  not  form  vicious  habits ;  and  make 
home  as  happy  as  you  possibly  can  for  them,  that  home  may  be  an  attrac- 
tive place.  Do  what  you  can  to  make  your  children  understand  that  which 
is  right,  instil  in  their  hearts  faith  in  God  and  see  to  it  that  they  learn 
what  is  the  Lord's  will  for  them  to  do  here  upon  the  earth.  What  a  great 
duty  the  training  of  children  is,  which  has  been  laid  upon  the  Latter-day 
Saints  and  upon  all  people ! 

I  do  not  want  to  shake  the  confidence  of  the  parents  in  their  children. 
I  know  that  God  has  given  us  that  blessed  love  for  our  children  that  we 


PRESIDENT  ANT  HON  H.  LUND. 

can  hardly  see  any  faults  in  them,  but  remember  that  all  are  liable  to  have 
faults,  and  hence  they  must  be  trained  aright.  Parents,  do  not  feel  too 
confident  that  your  children  are  safe  wherever  they  go.  We  have  so  many 
attractions  at  night ;  the  moving  picture  shows  are  cheap  and  our  young 
people  like  to  go  there.  I  will  not  say  that  moving  picture  shows  are 
always  bad.  Many  of  them  teach  desirable  lessons,  and  when  used  to 
instruct  in  that  which  is  useful,  the  picture  show  may  be  a  power  for  good 
in  a  community,  but  where  pictures  represent  things  just  to  amuse  and 
even  try  to  make  laughable  things  which  are  not  pure  and  good,  then  they 
do  a  great  deal  of  harm. 

See  to  it  that  your  children  attend  their  Sunday  School.  What  a 
blessed  place  for  the  children  to  go  on  a  Sunday  morning !  Here  we  find 
all  ages  of  children  from  the  little  tots  of  the  kindergarten  to  the  young 
men  and  ladies  and  even  married  people,  now  that  we  have  parents'  classes 
also  in  the  Sunday  School.  Children  like  to  be  there.  They  rejoice  in 
the  singing.  They  are  graded  so  that  their  teachers  can  reach  their  little 
hearts  and  give  them  instruction  suited  to  their  needs.  They  are  happier 
for  going  to  the  school  than  to  roam  in  the  streets  or  get  into  company 
of  boys  and  girls,  who  like  themselves  are  truants. 

There  are  also  the  Primaries.  Here  our  good  sisters  teach  them  and 
endeavor  to  turn  their  hearts  to  love  that  which  is  good.  We  want  also 
our  Religion  Classes  and  Church  Schools  sustained.  I  am  pleased  with 
the  good  work  that  is  being  done  in  these  institutions,  also  with  the  intro- 
duction of  our  seminaries.  By  having  a  seminary  close  to  the  high  school, 
our  high  school  students  can  go  there  and  in  addition  to  their  other  studies 
receive  lessons  in  theology  and  in  Bible  h-'story.  These  studies  are  for 
their  good,  and  they  help  to  stave  off  influences  tending  to  infidelity  and 
loss  of  faith. 

Parents,  guard  your  children,  and  know  where  they  are  and  what  they 
are  doing,  guard  them  against  imbibing  the  modern  ideas  of  believing  the 
world  to  be  a  self-running  machine,  and  that  God  is  not  needed  in  it.  That 
there  is  a  God,  used  to  be  considered  a  truth  that  needed  no  demonstra- 
tion. So  sure  was  David  that  he  writes,  "The  fool  hath  said  in  his  heart, 
there  is  no  God."  We  want  our  children  to  be  reared  in  a  firm  belief  in 
God  and  that  he  is  the  author  of  their  being,  and  is  their  Father.  We 
should  teach  them  that  without  him  they  could  not  even  breathe  or  have 
life  here,  for  he  is  the  Author  of  life. 

Let  us  instil  reverence  and  love  in  their  hearts  for  God,  and  for  our 
Savior,  let  them  know  what  the  Savior  has  done  for  us,  and  that  there  is 
no  doubt  in  our  hearts  about  this,  but  that  we  know  it  is  a  truth.  When 
they  love  their  parents  they  will  believe  what  these  teach  them,  and  do  not 
let  that  time  pass  in  which  we  have  the:r  full  confidence  and  let  them 
grow  up  in  ignorance  of  Godliness,  for  then  we  may  find  that  they  have 
learned  other  things  and  have  come  to  doubt  even  the  existence  of  God. 
There  is  a  great  danger  before  our  young  people  in  modern  ideas  that  are 
being  taught  them,  and  we  want  to  be  on  our  guard  that  they  take  the 
word  of  God,  the  iron  rod,  and  cling  to  it,  for  then  they  will  be  safe  in 
their  pilgrimage  through  life 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


OUR  ATTITUDE  ON  THE  GREAT  WAR. 

Today  we  are  hearing  of  the  gruesome  things  that  are  taking  place 
over  in  Europe.  We  are  anxious  to  learn  the  news  from  there.  It  is  a 
year  ago  now  since  we  entered  the  war.  Many  have  thought  that  the 
United  States  did  not  need  to  go  into  this  war,  but  our  lawmakers,  the 
President  and  his  Cabinet,  found  it  a  necessity  for  the  United  States  to 
join  those  with  whom  they  are  now  allied  across  the  water,  to  put  down 
the  idea  that  might  is  right,  and  that  the  strong  man  can  enter  the  house 
of  the  weaker  one  and  destroy  him  and  his  possessions.  Some  have  said, 
"Well,  why  not  let  them  take  care  of  their  own  affairs  and  we  defend  our 
land  when  an  invasion  is  made  here?"  We  do  not  want  to  wait  for  this. 
Our  duty  is  not  to  ourselves  alone  but  to  our  neighbors  as  well. 

When  we  were  troubled  with  the  Black  Hawk  war  in  Sanpete  county, 
you  folks  in  Salt  Lake  did  not  say :  "Let  them  take  care  of  themselves  up 
there."  "We  are  not  afraid  that  the  Indians  will  come  to  Salt  Lake  City;" 
but  you  sent  a  large  company  of  young  men  to  try  to  keep  the  Indians 
under  control,  and  we  appreciated  it.  We  found  what  a  hardship  and  loss 
it  was  to  be  at  war  then,  and  we  certainly  were  grateful  to  our  brethren 
from  the  lower  counties  who  helped  us. 

Today  we  are  trying  to  combat  a  power  that  wants  to  dominate,  that 
has  already  laid  plans  to  divide  Europe  and  go  down  through  Asia  to  the 
Persian  Gulf  or  to  the  Indian  Ocean.  If  this  plan  succeeds  they  can  turn 
their  power  to  the  right  or  to  the  left,  and  it  would  be  very  hard  to  quell 
or  stop  any  attack  thus  made.  The  United  States  have  gone  into  this 
war  with  the  most  unselfish  motives.  I  do  not  know  of  any  other  nation 
that  has  been  so  unselfish  in  offering  its  means  and  even  sending  its  young 
men  to  help  those  who  are  distressed  and  who  are  attacked  without  cause. 
What  had  Belgium  done  that  it  should  be  overrun  and  destroyed?  What 
had  France  done  at  that  time,  and  Russia  even?  Germany,  no  doubt, 
thought  that  with  such  splendidly  discplined  armies  as  she,  together  with 
Austria,  had— for  we  must  admit  that  these  armies  are  well  equipped  and 
disciplined — she  had  power  enough  to  subdue  both  France  and  Russia, 
and  then  England  would  have  its  turn.  But  she  found  that  by  the  united 
effort  of  these  nations  that  were  attacked  the  victory  was  not  accomplished 
so  easily  as  she  thought. 

THE  AMBITIONS  OF  GERMANY. 

You  take  the  Hohenzollern — I  perhaps  should  not  mention  a  certain 
family — but  they  claim  and  are  proud  to  say  that  ever  since  they  got  Bran- 
denburg by  purchase  and  acqirired  East  Prussia,  each  successive  ruler  has 
been  able  to  add  something  to  the  patrimony  left  him  ;  and  this  is  perhaps 
true,  but  in  what  way?  How  have  they  acquired  these  great  portions  of 
land  that  they  now  possess  ?  They  attacked  Austria  under  Maria  Theresa 
and  took  from#  her  Silesia  ;  and  afterwards  together  with  Russia  and 
Austria  they  divided  Poland  and  each  took  a  large  slice  of  it,  leaving  no 
Poland,  only  by  name  :  they  took  three  duchies  from  Denmark  in  1864. 


PRESIDENT  ANT  HON  H.  LUND. 


11 


Austria  and  Prussia  quarreled  about  who  should  have  them,  which  led  to 
war,  and  then,  Austria  being-  defeated,  additional  land  came  to  the  Hohen- 
zollerns ;  and  then  by  Bismarck  stirring  up  France  and  getting  Napoleon 
the  Third  to  go  into  a  snare  so  that  he  declared  war  against  Germany, 
which  country  in  a  short  time  conquered  France  and  made  her  pay  a 
large  indemnity  and  took  two  large  provinces  from  her.  In  such  a  way 
Germany  has  grown,  and  can  we  believe  that  if  they  come  out  victorious 
they  will  lose  this  lust  of  gain  and  desire  to  enlarge  their  kingdom? 
Today  we  -do  not  look  upon  the  Atlantic  as  being  so  great  a  defense  or 
safeguard  against  Europe  as  we  did  in  the  days  of  the  revolution.  Then 
they  had  to  send  soldiers  in  sail  ships  and  it  took  them  a  long  time  to  get 
across  the  ocean,  but  today  the  Atlantic  can  be  crossed  in  a  few  days,  and 
we  do  not  yet  know  to  what  extent  air  transportation  will  grow.  This 
war  has  developed  aviation  to  become  an  important  arm  in  the  war,  and 
likewise  the  submarine.  What  a  danger  the  latter  is  to  shipping !  We  are 
not  so  safe  today  from  Europe  as  we  might  think,  and  the  wise  men  of 
our  Nation  have  decided  that  we  should  be  prepared — prepared  to  meet 
foes  not  only  from  the  east,  but  even  from  the  west.  A  nation  like  us, 
unprepared,  even  with  our  large  numbers  of  men,  could  not  defend  itself 
against  a  smaller  power  with  disciplined  troops.  So,  in  any  case,  let  us 
be  prepared  and  help  to  encourage  our  boys  who  go  to  defend  the  cause 
we  have  adopted. 

OUR  DUTY  IN  THE  GREAT  STRUGGLE. 

The  Nation  has  already  spent  a  great  deal  of  means,  and  more  means 
will  be  needed.  The  Latter-day  Saints  whom  I  address  now  ought  to  do 
their  share,  and  not  feel  to  leave  it  alone,  but  do  as  they  have  done  in  the 
past,  meet  the  demands  that  are  made  upon  them.  War  is  a  costly  and  a 
horrible  thing,  and  I  believe  if  this  war  can  be  won  that  peace  will  be 
more  permanent  and  stable.  If  it  is  not  won,  it  will  not  be  long  till  the 
question  will  have  to  be  tried  again. 

TOLERATION  FOR  THE  GERMAN  SAINTS. 

I  want  to  say  a  few  words  about  our  German  Saints.  They  are 
placed  in  a  difficult  position.  Their  neighbors  are  so  likely  to  look  upon 
them  as  being  perhaps  alien  enemies,  and  in  some  cases  as  spies.  Now  I 
want  to  say  that  the  great  majority  of  Germans  who  have  come  to  this 
land  and  have  become  citizens  of  the  United  States,  I  believe  are  honest 
in  having  taken  the  oath  of  allegiance  and  that  they  love  this  country. 
There  are,  however,  a  great  many  enemy  agents  who  are  doing  much 
harm,  for  instance,  destroying  the  government  property,  ammunition 
plants,  railroad  bridges,  and  so  on,  trying  to  do  everything  to  stop  the 
success  of  the  United  States  in  preparing  material  for  the  war.  We  can- 
not wonder,  therefore,  that  the  feeling  of  bitterness  has  arisen  against  the 
Germans.  In  fact,  the  espionage  of  Germany  extends  to  a  greater  length 
than  history  has  ever  known.    In  nearly  every  land  there  are  spies  in  the 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


pay  of  the  kaiser,  and  they  are  keeping  his  government  posted  on  what  is 
going  on  both  here  and  in  other  lands.  But  this  should  not  make  us 
intolerant  to  those  who  have  come  here  and  become  good,  honest  citizens. 
That  large,  earnest  German-American  citizensh:p  should  not  suffer.  Our 
brethren  who  joined  the  Church  in  Germany,  who  felt  the  yoke  of  auto- 
cracy there  and  came  to  this  country  to  be  free  to  serve  God  according  to 
the  dictates  of  their  conscience — I  am  sure  are  not  of  the  kind  that  would 
sustain  an  alien  country  against  ours.  I  believe  that  they  are  true  Amer- 
ican citizens.    They  have  had  enough  of  the  oppression  over  in  Germany. 

I  remember  when  I  last  visited  Berlin  in  company  with  President 
Penrose  that  we  met  during  the  day  with  the  elders  there.  They  had 
been  called  together  and  we  had  a  splendid  time  with  them,  and  in  the 
evening  our  hall  was  crowded  with  Saints  and  their  friends.  Good  testi- 
monies were  borne  and  all  enjoyed  the  spirit  of  it.  After  the  meeting 
was  closed  the  president  of  the  mission,  Brother  Thomas  E.  McKay,  came 
to  us  and  said :  "Now  I  can  breathe  more  freely.  All  day  I  have 
feared  that  the  police  would  come  and  arrest  you  brethren." 

Well,  we  did  not  experience  that  treatment  at  that  time,  but  Brother 
Rudger  Clawson  afterwards  had  to  go  into  a  Berlin  jail  because  he  was 
found  in  company  with  Latter-day  Saints.  Now,  those  people  have  suf- 
fered for  their  religion's  sake  there  and  have  come  here  and  enjoyed  the 
full  freedom  to  worship  God  according  to  their  belief,  and  they  are  not 
hankering  to  go  again  under  the  German  autocracy. 

I  shall  not  take  more  of  your  time.  I  rejoice  in  being  with  you,  and 
I  hope  that  you  will  remember  the  counsels  given  us  by  our  President. 
Let  us  be  tolerant  towards  our  brethren  and  sisters  of  German  extraction. 
Let  us  be  careful  about  our  children,  that  they  be  raised  in  a  God-fearing 
manner,  and  let  us  ourselves  give  them  such  an  example  as  .shall  be  worthy 
of  following.  This  is  my  advice ;  and  may  God  bless  us  all,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


A  tenor  solo :  'Forever  with  the 
Lord,"  was  sung  by  Joseph  Mon- 
carr. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS. 

(President    of   the    Southern  States 
Mission) 

"Behold,"  saith  the  Lord,  "the 
world  is  ripening  in  iniquity,  and  it 
must  needs  be  that  the  children  of 
men  are  stirred  up  unto  repentance, 
both  the  Gentiles  and  also  the  house 
of  Israel."  Adam  said  unto  the 
Lord :  "Why  is  it  that  men  must 
repent  and  be  baptized  in  water?" 


And  the  Lord  answered  him,  say- 
ing: 

Inasmuch  as  thy  children  have  been 
conceived  in  sin,  even  so  when  they 
begin  to  grow  up,  sin  conceiveth  in 
their  hearts,  and  they  taste  the  bitter 
that  they  may  know  to  prize  the 
good.  And  it  is  given  them  to  know 
good  from  evil,  wherefore  they  are 
agents  unto  themselves,  and  I  have 
given  unto  you  another  law  and  com- 
mandment. Wherefore  teach  it  unto 
your  children,  that  all  men,  every- 
where, must  repent,  or  they  can  in 
no  wise  inherit  the  kingdom  of  God, 
for  no  unclean  thing  can  dwell  there, 
or  dwell  in  his  presence  (Book  of 
Moses  6:53-57). 

In  the  Book  of  Mormon  we  read 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


13 


that  because  of  the  Fall  our  na- 
tures have  become  evil  continually. 
The  gospel  is  the  power  which  God 
has  given  to  make  us  clean  and  to 
win  the  victory  over  the  world 
which  will  place  us  in  line  for  eter- 
nal exaltation. 

This  terrible  war  is  turning  the 
people  unto  the  Lord.  In  the  mis- 
sion where  I  have  the  privilege  of 
laboring  with  some  of  your  sons 
and  daughters,  there  is  plain  evi- 
dence that  the  war  is  proving  to 
many  of  the  children  of  men  a  sanc- 
tifying affliction.  In  this  hour  of 
peril  they  are  turning  to  the  God 
of  heaven,  confessing  their  sins 
and  seeking  light  and  truth  and  sal- 
vation by  obeying  the  gospel.  Men 
are  beginning  to  lose  much  of  their 
love  for  the  visible  and  tangible 
things  of  the  world ;  they  are  reach- 
ing out  unto  the  things  which  can- 
not be  seen  only  by  the  eye  of  faith. 
They  are  seeking  for  the  things  of 
immortality. 

A  prominent  minister  declared, 
in  an  address  before  a  convention 
recently,  that  there  were  prominent 
Protestant  families  following  their 
soldier  dead  into  the  other  world 
with  their  prayers.  The  leaven  of 
the  gospel,  we  can  see,  is  working. 
In  truth  it  is  becoming  more  ap- 
parent to  men  and  women  that  the 
gospel  is  indeed  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation.  It  is  the  means  of 
salvation,  the  entrance,  for  all  that 
obey  it,  into  the  kingdom  of  God. 

The  President  of  the  Church,  in 
the  power  and  authority  of  his  of- 
fice, this  morning,  stirred  Israel  up 
unto  the  necessity  of  becoming 
more  self-sustaining  in  raising  on 
our  farms,  and  manufacturing  at 
home,  the  necessaries  of  life.  Breth- 
ren and  sisters,  it  will  redound  to 
our  benefit,  temporally  and  spirit- 


ually, if  we  give  heed  to  the  ad- 
monition and  instruction  we  re- 
ceived from  him. 

When  the  Lord  Jesus  was  tak- 
ing leave  of  his  apostles,  he  said 
unto  them :  "Ye  shall  be  witnesses 
unto  me  both  in  Jerusalem  and  in 
Judea,  and  in  Samaria,  and  unto 
the  uttermost  parts  of  the  earth." 
It  is  our  testimony,  a  living,  abid- 
ing testimony,  that  we  are  bearing 
unto  the  children  of  men,  that  three 
of  these  apostles  whom  Jesus  was 
addressing  did  come  to  the  utter- 
most parts  of  the  earth,  and,  upon 
Joseph  Smith  bestowed  the  holy 
Melchizedek  Priesthood,  which  is 
the  power  to  preach  the.  gospel  of 
repentance,  to  baptize  by  immersion 
for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  to 
bestow  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
whose  office  it  is  to  guide  into  all 
the  truth  of  God.  Did  this  actu- 
ally come  to  pass?  Did  Peter, 
James  and  John  come  from  man- 
sions of  glory  and  invest  Joseph 
Smith  with  that  sacred  power? 
We  in  the  mission  field,  witnessing 
the  marvelous  effect  of  the  gospel 
on  the  hearts  of  men,  rejoicing  in 
the  glorious  manifestations  and  the 
testimony  which  the  Saints  receive 
after  they  make  covenant  with  God 
in  the  waters  of  baptism,  earnestly 
testify  that  these  things  are  a  stand- 
ing testimony  that  these  apostles 
did  come  and  endow  the  Prophet 
with  this  splendid:  power — "the 
power  to  act  in  the  earth,  in  the 
name  of  the  Father,  Son,  and  Holy 
Ghost,  for  the  salvation  of  men." 

We  further  testify  that  this 
power  and  authority  has  attended 
the  men  who  have  succeeded  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith;  that  this 
power  and  influence  is  wielded  in 
the  world  today  by  the  men  who 
stand  at  the  head  of  the  Church. 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


The  blessings  we  receive  in  the 
house  of  the  Lord ;  the  success  your 
sons  and  daughters  are  meeting 
with  in  preaching  the  gospel,  con- 
stitute an  abiding  testimony  that 
the  power  and  influence  placed  up- 
on Joseph  Smith,  the  authority  con- 
ferred upon  him  by  Peter,  James 
and  John,  has  been  bestowed  upon, 
abides  with,  and  is  exercised  by,  the 
President  of  the  Church  today,  and 
it  dwells  also  with  those  who  are 
associated  with  him.  My  brethren 
and  sisters,  I  bear  testimony  to  this 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  Heber  J.  Grant  gave 
notice  of  the  general  priesthood 
meeting  to  be  held  in  the  Taber- 
nacle, this  evening  at  7:30  o'clock. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 
"Do  what  is  right,  the  day  dawn  is 
breaking." 

The  closing  prayer  was  pro- 
nounced by  Elder  Sylvester  Q.  Can- 
non, President  of  the  Pioneer  stake 
of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2 
p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 


President  Joseph  F.  Smith  pre- 
sided and  called  the  congregation 
to  order  at  2  o'clock. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  hymn:    "O  say  what  is  truth?" 


Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Rey 
L.  Pratt,  of  the  Mexican  Mission. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 
'"Though  deepening  trials  throng 
the  way."  • 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 

It  is  with  great  joy  and  thanksgiving  that  I  am  able  to  meet  this 
afternoon  in  this  congregation  with  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  general  con- 
ference. You  who  sit  down  in  the  body  of  the  audience  cannot  look  upon 
this  vast  congregation  as  we  do  who  are  on  the  stand.  We  have  a  mag- 
nificent sight  before  us.  The  beauty  of  the  congregation  is  enhanced  in 
my  view  by  the  absence  of  so  much  millinery  as  we  used  to  have  in  our 
congregations  many  years  ago.  We  not  only  behold  the  countenances  of 
our  brethren,  even  the  bald  heads,  but  also  we  can  see  the  faces  of  our 
sisters,  not  disfigured  by  any  frills  or  furbelows  or  artificial  flowers  or 
anv  encumbrance,  and  the  view  is  very  fine.  I  rejoice  in  it.  If  it  was 
only  to  look  upon  this  congregation  this  afternoon  that  I  was  privileged 
to  do,  I  should  feel  very  thankful,  but  having  the  opportunity  of  saying 
a  few  words,  bearing  my  testimony  to  the  truth  of  the  great  work  in 
which  we  are  all  engaged,  I  am  doublv  thankful;  also  for  the  measure  of 
health  and  strength  that  I  have,  as  during  the  winter  that  is  about  over,  I 
hope,  I  have  been  somewhat  affected  by  the  errippe.  I  either  had  the 
grippe  or  the  grippe  had  me ;  perhaps  both.    But  T  am  able  to  be  here 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


15 


today  and  to  rejoice  in  the  good  things  that  have  been  given  to  us,  the 
words  spoken  by  our  President. this  morning  and  by  President  Lund  and 
by  Brother  Callis  who  bore  a  powerful  testimony  at  the  close  of  the 
services.  I  enjoyed  it  all  very  much,  and  I  rejoice  in  the  Spirit  that  is 
present  this  afternoon,  and  hope  that  by  its  help  I  may  be  able  to  say 
something  worthy  of  your  hearing  and  remembrance. 

I  have  prepared  no  discourse  for  this  conference ;  I  am  not  in  the 
habit  of  doing  that.  Still,  I'have  ideas  passing  through  my  mind,  but  I. 
generally  find  when  I  come  to  conference  that  the  things  I  thought  about 
are  not  those  that  come  to  my  memory,  so  I  have  to  trust  in  the  inspiration 
of  the  time,  which  I  do  now,  desiring  in  my  soul  that  I  may  say  that 
which  is  rght  and  which  can  be  understood  by  those  who  listen,  and  will 
be  of  profit  to  somebody  if  not  to  everybody  present. 

HOME  PRODUCTION  AND  HOME  SAVINGS 

This  morning  when  the  President  was  speaking  in  regard  to  the  con- 
servation of  our  foodstuffs  and  our  production  of  the  things  that  we  need 
for  home  consumption,  and  the  wisdom  of  sending  out  for  export  as  much 
or  more,  if  possible,  than  that  which  comes  in,  I  reverted  to  the  old  in- 
structions given  years  and  years  ago  in  this  house,  and  sometimes  before 
this  house  was  erected,  by  President  Brigham  Young  and  his  then  imme- 
diate associates.  That  was  one  of  their  regular  themes — home  production 
and  home  savings.  We  have  a  good  deal  of  talk  now  about  the  con- 
servation of  our  products.  Well,  we  have  been  in  the  habit,  or  were  some 
years  ago,  of  practicing  this.  It  was  one  of  the  texts  preached  upon  and 
one  of  the  policies  urged  upon  us,  and,  to  a  very  great,  extent,  carried  out 
as  far  as  we  could  in  the  conditions  in  which  we  were  then  placed.  But 
latterly  there  has  been,  no  doubt,  very  much  extravagance.  What  I  mean 
by  that  is  not  getting  a  number  of  things  we  were  not  able  to  get,  but 
having  our  desjres,  our  wishes,  go  beyond  our  necessities  and  indulging 
in  luxuries,  some  of  which  are  not  beneficial,  but  to  the  contrary,  to  the 
human  body.  These  things  were  pointed  out  to  us  this  morning  very 
clearly,  and  I  hope  those  remarks  will  have  their  impression  upon  the 
Latter-day  Saints. 

It  is  very  poor  policy  for  a  people  like  us  to  be  exporting  little  or 
nothing  and  importing  a  great  deal,  importing  very  often  things  that  we 
could  produce  ourselves  at  home,  if  we  would  be  prudent  and  wise  and 
industrious  and  careful.  Particularly  I  have  noticed  the  waste  of  fruit, 
bushels  and  bushels  rotting  upon  the  ground,  and  then  sending  to  Cali- 
fornia for  canned  fruit.  There  is  no  place  where  we  can  get  better 
peaches  than  we  can  raise  right  here  in  LItah.  They  have  a  special  good 
flavor  to  me.  When  I  have  been  away  from  here  and  could  get  a  peach 
raised  in  Utah,  it  was  indeed  a  peach  to  me.  I  speak  of  this  merely  as  a 
sample  of  other  things  that  we  do,  waste  what  we  raise  at  home,  then  send 
out  and  buy  it  from  abroad.  It  is  very  poor  policy  and  I  echo  the  re- 
mark that  it  is  indeed  a  shame  and  a  d;sgrace  to  some  of  us.  I  know  that 
there  are  excuses  for  this  and  some  reasons  perhaps,  but  I  think  that  the 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


intimation  made  to  us  by  the  President  this  morning  should  be  sufficient 
to  us  all  to  do  what  we  can  to  save  that  which  we  produce  and  to  put  it 
to  good  use,  not  to  "strew  our  ways  to  strangers"  or  strew  our  fruits  on 
the  ground  to  be  of  no  use  to  anybody.  I  think  if  we  will  get  that  idea 
into  our  minds  it  will  suffice  in  regard  to  a  great  many  things  that  we  do 
produce,  and  perhaps  stir  us  up  to  produce  things  that  we  do  not  now 
bring  forth  either  from  the  ground  or  by  our  industry  and  our  skill. 

SAVIORS  ON  MOUNT  ZION 

I  have  thought  during  this  conference  many  times  of  a  text  which 
we  have  used  very  freely  in  the  world,  not  particularly  in  relation  to  this 
subject,  but,  I  think,  just  as  applicable  to  it  as  to  other  things,  that  in  the 
last  days  "saviors  should  come  up  on  Mount  Zion  -to  judge  the  mount  of 
Esau ;  and  the  kingdom  shall  be  the  Lord's."  If  my  memory  serves  me 
right,  it  is  the  last  verse  in  the  book  of  Obadiah,  in  the  Old  Testament 
scriptures.  We  have  used  that  text  a  good  deal  in  regard  to  the  salvation 
of  the  dead.  I  have  seen  a  periodical  recently  in  which  it  is  stated  that 
the  only  way  in  which  we  can  become  saviors  on  Mount  Zion,  is  to  be 
baptized  for  our  dead.  Without  des'ring  to  say  one  word  against  that,  I 
would  only  like  to  strike  out  the  word  "only."  I  think  there  are  many 
ways  by  which  the  Latter-day  Saints  can  become  "saviors  on  Mount 
Zion."  The  work  that  we  are  doing  for  the  dead,  performing  for  those 
who  have  departed,  ordinances  which  they  cannot  themselves  attend  to, 
but  which  we  can  do  for  them  by  proxy,  is  a  grand  and  glorious  work, 
and  I  am  pleased  to  know  that  it  is  going  on  to  a  very  large  extent.  In 
all  the  temples  that  are  built,  the  four  temples  that  we  now  have  in  our 
use,  thousands  upon  thousands  of  baptisms  for  the  dead  are  performed 
from  month  to  month,  and  we  have  the  reports  come  to  us  in  the  Presi- 
dent's Office  so  that  we  can  see  what  is  being  done  in  that  direction,  and 
the  work  is  really  marvelous.  Of  course,  when  we  consider  the  hosts  of 
the  departed  who  are  in  the  spirit  world  and  who  never  had  the  oppor- 
tunity of  receiving  those  ordinances  of  salvation,  the  number  may  appear 
rather  small  by  comparison,  but  the  work  will  go  on  not  only  in  th:s  con- 
dition that  we  find  ourselves  in,  but  when  the  glorious  millennial  day  shall 
be  fully  ushered  in,  temples  will  be  built  at  various  points  on  this  great 
land  of  Zion  which  extends  from  the  north  of  the  continent  to  the  south 
thereof,  and  the  work  for  the  dead  will  continue,  and  the  saviors  on  Mount 
Zion  will  be  multiplied  in  our  posterity,  if  we  happen  to  have  gone  away 
from  here  by  that  time,  and  it  will  go  on  until  the  work  is  fully  consum- 
mated, and  all  that  is  needful  to  be  done  shall  be  performed  for  the  re- 
demption of  those  who  have  passed  away  without  having  an  opportunitv 
of  hearing  the  gospel  and  obeying  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  in 
relation  thereunto. 

It  is  a  grand  and  glorious  work,  and  I  wish  to  impress  it  upon  the 
minds  of  my  brethren  and  sisters  gathered  in  this  great  audience  today, 
that  a  duty  rests  upon  them  to  continue  this  work,  and  to  do  all  that  they 
can  that  it  may  be  properly  accomplished  according  to  the  mind  and  will 
and  commandment  of  the  Lord,  for  the  commandment  is  upon  us  and 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


17 


it  is  necessary  to  our  perfection  as  well  as  the  perfection  of  our  ancestors 
that  these  ordinances  shall  be  performed,  and  none  of  our  work  will  be 
wasted.  The  time  will  come  when  those  who  do  not  at  first  accept  the 
gospel  even  in  the  spirit  world  will,  through  the  experiences  which  they 
will  have  to  suffer,  be  willing  to  bow  the  knee  to  King  Emmanuel  and 
acknowledge  him  to  be  the  Lord,  to  the  glory  of  God,  the  Father,  and 
every  ordinance  performed  for  them  will  stand  in  its  place  and  effect  its' 
object  at  some  period  or  other. 

MANY  WAYS  OF  BEING  SAVIORS 

But  there  are  a  great  many  other  things  in  which  we  can  be  saviors. 
We  can  be  saviors  if  we  carry  out  the  instructions  given  to  us  this  morn- 
ing, that  is,  to  take  care  of  that  which  we  produce  and  put  it  to  proper 
service,  and  use  it  in  preference  to  sending  away  to  other  places  to  get 
articles  that  would  be  perhaps  inferior ;  but,  whether  or  not,  that  we  should 
use  that  with  which  the  Lord  has  blest  us  in  the  land  that  he  has  given 
to  us  in  these  mountain  valleys  and  which  can  be  made  to  produce  almost 
everything  that  is  absolutely  necessary  for  our  comfort  and  convenience 
as  a  people  and  as  individuals.  If  we  will  take  away  with  us  from  this 
conference  the  desire  and  determination  in  our  hearts  that  we  will  carry 
out  this  instruction  in  the  spirit  and  meaning  thereof,  it  will  amount  to 
a  great  deal  for  the  spiritual  as  well  as  the  temporal  salvation  of  the  people 
and  everyone  will  be  a  savior  on  Mount  Zion  who  aids  in  this  glorious 
work. 

We  are  to  be  saviors  of  men,  too,  in  sending  or  carrying  the  gospel 
to  every  nation,  kindred  and  tongue  and  people.  That  is  imposed  upon 
us;  that  is  required  of  us.  We  are  here  on  the  earth  with  a  mission  to 
perform.  Every  Latter-day  Saint,  every  man  and  woman  and  boy  and 
girl  born  in  the  covenant  or  who  has  received  it,  is  under  obligations  to 
do  all  that  is  possible  for  the  sending  forth  of  the  word  of  the  Lord  to 
all  the  nations  of  the  earth.  A  good  many  of  my  brethren  here  on  this 
stand  and  around  have  been  out  to  the  world,  and  we  have  done  our  part 
as  far  as  we  could  in  sounding  a  warning  to  the  nations  of  the  earth.  We 
have  traveled  extensively  among  the  nations  that  are  now  at  war.  We 
have  preached  and  lifted  up  our  voices  and  warned  them  of  troubles  and 
judgments  to  come,  and  now  these  things  are  upon  them.  We  see  the 
fulfilment  of  the  words  of  the  Lord ;  and  while  we  do  not  rejoice  in  human 
suffering,  we  cannot  help  rejoicing  in  the  fact  that  the  Lord  made  known 
to  us,  years  and  years  ago,  that  these  things  would  come,  and  showed  us 
how  we  might  escape  and.  help  others  to  escape  them.  I  remember  the 
words  of  Isaiah,  the  prophet,  which  we  have  often  quoted,  where  he  says 
unto  Zion : 

''Come,  my  people,  enter  thou  into  thy  chambers,  and  shut  thy  doors  about 
thee:  Hide  thyself  as  it  were  for  a  little  moment,  until  the  indignation  be 
overpast. 

"For,  behold,  the  Lord  cometh  out  of  his  place  to  punish  the  inhabitants 
of  the  earth  for  their  iniquity:  The  earth  also  shall  disclose  her  blood,  and 
shall  no  more  cover  her  slain"  (Isa.  26:20,21), 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


These  things  have  been  literally  fulfilled  in  our  time  and  our  ex- 
perience;  and  how  thankful  we  ought  to  be  that  we  are  here  in  these 
chambers  of  the  mountains,  that  Zion,  bringing  good  tidings,  has  come 
up  into  the  high  mountain  as  Isaiah  predicted,  that  we  are  here  dwelling 
in  quiet  places  and  peaceable  resting-  places  just  as  Isaiah  saw  that  we 
would  in  the  latter  days,  (chap,  32)  and  that  in  the  midst  of  the  troubles 
and  .dangers  that  are  abroad  in  the  world,  we  have  the  consolation  of 
having  done  our  duty  and  warned  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  of  judg- 
ments to  come.  And  the  Lord  sard  that  after  our  testimony  would  come 
the  testimony  of  earthquakes  and  of  the  waves  of  the  sea  heaving  them- 
selves beyond  their  bounds,  of  floods  and  fire  and  flame  and  the  sword 
and  wars  and  rumors  of  wars  and  earthquakes  in  divers  places,  and  these 
are  but  "the  beginnings  of  sorrows"  for  the  latter  davs.  Now,  we  have 
done  a  great  deal  in  warning  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  concerning  this, 
and  those  who  have  gone  forth  weeping  sometimes,  have  come  back  bear- 
ing precious  seeds  and  planted  them  right  here  in  the  chambers  of  these 
mountains,  and  we  are  surrounded  by  peace  and  good-will  and  kindness  of 
heart  among  the  ranks  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

Sometimes  there  is  a  little  riffle  here  and  there,  a  little  contention,  a 
little  dispute,  a  little  strife,  but  in  the  main  "the  peace  of  God  that  passeth 
all  understanding"  rests  down  in  the  hearts  and  in  the  homes  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  We  can  bow  down  before  the  Lord  in  the  morning  and 
in  the  evening  and  ask  his  blessings  upon  us  when  we  partake  of  "food, 
in  the  spirit  of  peace  and  kindness  and  charity  and  love  for  all,  and  we 
desire  in  our  souls  the  welfare  and  salvation  of  mankind,  and  whatever 
there  is  to  do  in  this  direction  we  feel  that  we  want  to  do  it.  As  a  people 
we  have  done  something  towards  helping  in  bringing  about  the  reign  of 
truth  and  liberty  and  the  establishment  of  good  government  and '  right- 
eousness in  the  earth,  but  the  end  is  rot  yet,  and  the  work  has  yet  to  be 
done  and  there  is  more  for  us  to  do,  that  we  may  be  indeed  assistants  in 
the  salvation  of  mankind  in  these  troublous  times  that  have  come  upon 
the  world.  Our  boys  who  go  forth  to  the  front  representing  us,  go  out 
in  that  spirit,  as  saviors  who  have  come  out  of  Mount  Zion,  bearing  with 
them  the  sp:rit  of  Zion,  setting  a  good  example  to  their  comrades,  taking 
a  course  which  will  show  that  we  are  a  people  that  observe  the  laws  of 
health  and  of  strength  and  of  virility  of  manhood,  living  clean  lives  set- 
ting a  good  example  to  the  world,  and  they  are  objects  of  the  admiration 
of  others  who  do  not  practice  such  good  things. 

NATIONAL  AND  INTERNATIONAL  SALVATION. 

Now,  "the  end  is  not  vet,"  as  I  have  said.  More  will  have  to  °o 
more  means  will  have  to  be  raised  to  carry  on  th:s  good  work  and  we 
are  not  doing  it  in  the  spirit  of  conquest  or  of  a  desire  merely  for  victorv 
over  our  fellow  creatures,  except  to  establish  righteousness  and  truth  and 
peace  m  the  earth.  The  grand  and  glorious  principles  referred  to  bv  our 
President  this  morning  embod:e<1  in  the  Constitution  of  our  country  have 
to  be  proclaimed,  and  if  by  means  of  war  onlv  they  can  be  proclaimed 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


19 


the  war  will  have  to  come  and  we  will  have  to  engage  in  the  good  work 
at  any  cost  and  at  any  sacrifice.  In  this  our  cause  is  .salvation.  We  want 
to -save  the  nations  from  bondage,  from  tyranny,  from  oppression,  from 
the  grasp  of  avarice  and  ambition.  As  alluded  to  by  President  Lund, 
there  is  a  power  in  Europe  which  seeks  to  overspread  the  world  and  bring 
the  whole  earth  under  bondage.  But  the  principles  embodied  in  the  Con- 
stitution of  our  country  are  at  variance  with  this,  and  it  is  part  of  our 
mission  as  children  of  the  Lord,  as  saviors  on  Mount  Zion,  to  carry  the 
spirit  of  good  government,  to  establish  peace  on  righteous  principles,  to 
extend  freedom  to  all  mankind,  freedom  to  the  full  extent  of  human 
rights,  preservative  also  of  the  rights  of  others.  That  is  the  genius  of 
our  government  and  this  has  to  be  carried  abroad,  and  we  had  to  go  into 
strife  "willy-nilly."  We  are  with  our  country  in  this  conflict.  Let  us  be 
reasonable.  Let  us  be  liberal  also  in  our  feelings,  not  narrowed  up  in  our 
souls,  but  feel  that  we  are  engaged  in  a  great  and  glorious  work  for  the 
salvation  of  humanity  from  oppression  and  tyranny  and  autocracy.  That 
is  part  of  our  duty,  part  of  our  work  as  saviors. 

The  elders  will  remember  that  years  ago  we  used  to  repeat  that  it  was 
predicted  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  that  the  t:me  would  come  when 
even  the  very  Constitution  of  our  country  would  be  in  danger,  and  the 
elders  of  this  Church  would  arise  in  the  might  and  the  power  of  the  Holy 
priesthood  and  bear  the  standard  of  liberty  aloft,  and  save,  or  help  to  save, 
this  country,  from  the  evils  of  oppression  and  tyranny  and  bloodshed. 
Let  us  remember  these  things  and  while  we  are  doing  the  work  of  salva- 
tion for  the  dead,  let  us  continue  in  the  work  of  salvation  for  the  living. 
Let  us  produce  that  which  we  need  for  our  own  sustenance  and  comfort, 
and  what  we  save  thereby  we  can  use  for  the  benefit  of  people  abroad,  and 
we  can  plant  in  the  hearts  of  our  children  a  desire  to  do  that  which  is 
right,  to  keep  God's  commandments,  and  train  them  up  in  the  ranks  of  his 
kingdom,  for  "the  kingdom  is  the  Lord's."  It  is  true,  that  we  Latter-day 
Saints  in  these  mountains  in  Utah,  form  a  part  of  the  great  government 
of  the  United  States.  That  is  all  right ;  thank  God  for  it,  that  we  have 
influence  in  this  Nation  and  that  our  influence  is  growing  and  we  are  get- 
ting better  understood,  and  the  way  is  opening  up  for  the  fulfilment  of  all 
things  spoken  of  concerning  Z;on  and  her  power  in  the  earth  ;  and  let  us 
use  that  power  in  wisdom  and  in  righteousness,  with  discretion  and  judg- 
ment, and  not  go  crazy  about  anything. 

TRAINING  OUR  CHILDREN  IN  RIGHTEOUSNESS 

Now,  in  regard  to  our  children.  Brother  Lund  said  considerable  on 
this  matter  this  morning.  That  is  right.  Let  us  train  up  our  children  in 
all  things  that  are  mentioned  in  our  Sunday  Schools,  in  our  Religion 
Classes,  in  our  Primary  departments  and  in  those  for  the  older  members 
of  the  youth  of  Zion,  the  Mutual  Improvement  Associations,  sustaining 
at  the  same  tine  that  great  and  glorious  institution,  the  Relief  Society. 
All  these  auxiliaries  are  necessary  in  the  Church ;  and  the  Sunday  Schools, 
of  course ;  they  form  a  very  great  part.  Brother  Lund  talked  about  them 
this  morning,  and  I  am  adding  a  few  words  to  what  he  said,  which  I  wish 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  emphasize.  There  is  need  for  us  to  instruct  our  children  at  home  and 
in  the  Sunday  School  and  in  these  classes,  in  morality,  in  honesty,  in  truth- 
fulness and  in  integrity. 

A  number  of  our  children,  it  appears  to  me,  do  not  have  impressed 
fully  upon  their  minds  the  need  of  telling  the  truth  and  of  avoiding  lies, 
falsehoods.  They  do  not,  all  of  them,  understand  the  rightfulness  and  the 
benefits  of  using  for  themselves  only  that  which  is  their  own.  I  don't 
want  to  particularize  too  closely,  but  I  have  known  of  children  who  had 
just  come  out  of  Sunday  School  going  rampant  into  orchards  and  steal- 
ing fruit,  not  thinking  that  they  were  doing  very  much  harm,  perhaps 
encouraged  by  the  notion  that  a  great  deal  of  it  was  wasting  on  the 
ground. 

So,  I  see  the  need  of  teaching  our  children  not  only  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  to  abstain  from  certain  things,  I  will  not  say  a  word  against 
that,  by  any  means,  I  would  emphasize  that,  train  up  our  children  to  do 
without  these  things  that  are  injurious  to  the  human  body,  but  also  instil 
into  them,  in  the  home  particularly,  truthfulness,  honesty,  integrity,  re- 
spect for  the  rights  of  others.  Don't  let  little  children  take  toys  that 
belong  to  their  brothers  and  sisters  without  the  permission  of  those  to 
whom  they  belong.  That  is  the  idea.  That  is  only  a  small  matter,  but 
the  great  principle  is  to  train  up  our  boys  and  girls  that  they  will  be  hon- 
est and  tell  the  truth,  that  they  will  not  lie,  that  they  will  not  take  things 
that  do  not  belong  to  them,  that  they  will  respect  the  rights  of  others. 
That  is  one  of  the  fundamental  principles  of  our  faith.  We  want  the 
privilege  of  worshiping  God  according  to  the  dictates  of  our  own  con- 
sciences, unmolested,  and  we  want  to  give  that  privilege  to  all  mankind. 
That  is  part  of  our  religion.  So  let  us  remember  this,  and  in  the  school- 
ing of  our  children  don't  forget  to  teach  them  these  fundamental  prin- 
ciples of  righteousness  and  truth,  for  therein  will  be  the  strength  of  our 
people.    Righteousness  exalteth  a  nation. 

PEACE  WILL  NOT  COME  WITHOUT  RIGHTEOUSNESS. 

We  must  have  righteous  government,  good  government  or  peace 
will  not  continue,  but  there  will  be  war  and  trouble  and  strife  and  blood- 
shed and  all  the  ills  that  have  afflicted  humanity  for  many  years  past 
But  the  turning  time  is  near  at  hand,  the  time  of  peace  is  to  come  and 
the  Prince  of  Peace,  Jesus  Christ  our  Redeemer,  is  to  come  and  be  King 
of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords.  b 

I  believe  in  that  with  all  my  heart.  I  believe  in  Jesus  Christ  as 
an  individual,  not  merely  as  an  idea,  not  merely  as  a  light  not  merely 
as  an  influence,  but  I  believe  in  Jesus  as  the  son  of  Mary  and  the  Son  of 
God,  that  he  was  the  only  begotten  of  the  Father  in  the  flesh  and  that 
he  lived  and  set  a  splendid  example,  committing  no  sin,  doin-  no  evil 
obeying  every  commandment  of  the  Father,  and  thus  being  a  sinless  being 
he  could  offer  himself  voluntarily  as  a  sacrifice  for  sinners,  and  he 

r  r>  iTr  I -unjust'  tf  Pfer  says'  "that  he  miSht  bri"g  ™  to 
God.  I  believe  m  him,  and  that  he  will  be  our  King,  but  before  he 
comes  to  reign  on  the  earth  there  will  have  to  be  a  great  preparation  and 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


21 


it  will  take  some  time  to  bring  it  about.  Of  course,  we  understand  that 
certain  things  predicted  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  are  to  take' 
place  before  tnis  generation  shall  pass  away,  and  the  Lord  will  see  to  it 
that  the  generation  in  which  those  things  were  predicted  will  not  all  pass 
away  until  all  shall  be  fulfilled,  but  there  is  no  fixed  period  for  a  gen- 
eration, no  set  time  in  the  revelations  of  God,  no  year  or  date  given  when 
these  things  shall  take  place,  and  it  is  folly  for  anybody  to  put  a  date  to 
it.  Leave  that  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  and  he  will  take  care. that  his 
word  is  fulfilled;  "not  one  jot  or  one  tittle  shall  pass  away,"  as  Jesus  de- 
clared, "but  all  shall  be  fulfilled." 

REVERENCE  FOR  THE  TRUE  AND  LIVING  GOD. 

In  training  up*  our  children  we  must  also  plant  in  their  minds  belief 
in  and  reverence  for  a  living  and  true  God,  the  Father  of  their  spirits, 
that  they  may  learn  the  lesson  that  Paul  taught,  that  "we  have  fathers  of 
our  flesh  who  corrected  us  and  we  gave  them  reverence,  but  how  much 
rather  should  we  be  in  subjection  to  the  Father  of  spirits  and  live." 
Belief  in  a  Being,  a  personal  God,  that  is  the  very  foundation  and  be- 
ginning of  our  faith.  "We  believe  in  God,  the  Father,  and  in  Jesus  Christ, 
his  Son,  and 'in  the  Holy  Ghost,"  and  we  believe  in  them  as  individuals 
who  are  at  the  head,  who  form  the  presiding  quorum  as  a  trinity  in  unity, 
the  power  being  in  them  and  proceeding  forth  from  them,  and  "by  and 
through  them  and  of  them  the  worlds  were  created,  and  the  inhabitants 
thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto  God."  And  in  sending  out 
of  the  State  for  books  of  instruction  for  our  children,  let  us  be  careful 
that  we  don't  bring  in  too  much  of  the  nonsense  that  is  incorporated  in 
some  of  the  text-books  of  the  times,  the  ideas  and  notions  of  men,  the 
theories  and  inferences  and  reasonings  of  men,  not  real,  solid,  substantial 
facts  or  the  actual  truth.  God  is  the  Author  of  all  things  in  the  universe 
that  have  been  organized  for  .  progress  and  for  salvation  and  for  bless- 
ing.  He  is  at  the  head  of  this  Church. 

REVELATIONS  OF  THE  PROPHET  THE  WORD  OF  GOD. 

The  revelations  that  we  have  are  not  simply  utterances  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  or  others  to  whom  they  have  been  given.  They  are  the 
word  of  the  Lord.  Don't  let  us  forget  that.  When  we  talk  about  Joseph 
Smith  as  a  scientist,  that  is  all  right  when  we  go  to  show  that  things 
revealed  to  him  as  truths  have  since  been  received  and  understood  by  the 
learned  of  the  age  and  have  come  to  them  without  knowing  that  he  pre- 
dicted them,  but  was  he  their  author?  We  do  not  pit  him  against 
them,  but  we  take  the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  don't  let  us  forget 
that  it  is  the  word  of  the  Lord  that  has  come  to.  us,  and  this  Church  is 
founded  upon  it.  Christ  prayed  to  the  Father  concerning  his  disciples, 
"Father,  sanctify  them  by  the  truth,  thy  word  is  truth."  The  word  of 
the  Lord,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  truth  and  can  be  relied  upon,  and 
we  can  take  our  stand  upon  it  and  bring  everything  to  it,  and  that  should 
be  with  us  the  standard.    We  don't  want  to  prevent  men  from  thinking. 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  have  heard  some  of  my  brethren  say,  "Well,  do  you  want  to  stop  men 
from  thinking?"  Not  at  all.  Liberty  to  think  and  liberty  to  act  upon 
the  thought  if  you  don't  infringe  the  rights  of  others.  Liberty  to  think, 
liberty  to  read,  liberty  to  have  theories  and  notions  and  ideas  ;  but,  my 
brethren,  it  isn't  your  province  nor  mine  to  introduce  theories  into  the 
Church  that  are  not  in  accordance  with  the  revelations  that  have  been 
given.  Don't  forget  that.  And  if  any  change  in  policy,  is  to  be  introduced, 
it  is  to  come  through  the  proper  channel.  The  Lord  said  only  his  ser- 
vant Joseph  should  do  that  while  he  lived,  and  then  after  he  died  others 
were  to  be  called  to  occupy  the  place,  and  the  key  is  in  the  hands  of  the 
man  who  stands  at  the  head,  if  any  change  is  to  be  introduced  in  our 
Church.  Don't  let  us  fix  our  minds  too  much  on  the  ideas  and  notions 
that  are  called  science.  If  it  is  really  science  that  they  produce,  some- 
thing demonstrated,  something  proved  to  be  true,  that  is  all  right,  and 
there  is  not  a  doctrine  of  our  Church  that  I  can  find  that  comes  in  direct 
conflict  or  contradiction  to  the  sciences  of  the  times  if  they  are  sciences, 
but  a  great  deal  of  that  which  is  called  science  is  only  philosophy,  and 
much  of  it  speculative  philosophy,  and  these  ideas  change  with  the  ages, 
as  we  can  see  by  reference  to  what  has  been  called  science  in  times  that 
are  past. 

WHAT  WE  SHOULD  DO  AS  SAVIORS  OF  MEN. 

Now,  brethren,  what  I  am  after  is  this:  Let  us  Latter-day  Saints, 
called  to  be  saviors  of  men,  called  to  be  saviors  of  this  world,  called  to 
be  saviors  to  introduce  that  which  will  save  mankind  and  bring  them 
up  from  their  lowest  state  into  a  condition  where  they  will  be  fit  to  hold 
converse  with  Deity,  let  us  be  careful  that  we  plant  in  the  minds  of  our 
children  the  truth  and  nothing  but  the  truth  so  far  as  we  can  understand 
it,  and  as  to  the  opinions  and  notions  of  men,  value  them  for  what  they 
are,  if  they  have  any  value,  and  some  of  them  do. not  have  any,  but  many 
of  them  do.  We  do  not  want  to  cripple  men's  minds,  we  do  not  want  to 
wean  men  from  investigating  and  reaching  out  into  the  field  of  thought. 
1  he  boundless  universe  is  before  us  all  to  learn  and  to  live  and  to  come 
up  to  the  standard  occupied  by  our  Eternal  Father  and  to  be  fit  for  his 
society.  Let  our  minds  enlarge,  our  understanding  increase  and  let  ev- 
erything that  is  proved  to  be  true  and  established  and  demonstrated 
come  m  to  us  as  part  of  our  belief,  but  the  theories  and  notions  of  men 
that  are  m  contradiction  to  the  revelations  of  Almighty  God  are  not  to 
be  considered  m  the  light  that  some  people  view  them.  Let  us  be  verv 
careful  about  these  things. 

Now,  we  want  to  teach  these  things  to  our  children,  train  them  up 
to  believe  m  the  living  and  true  God,  the  Author  of  our  being,  our  Father 
in  heaven,  and  in  Jesus  Christ,  his  Son,  who  died  for  us ^ and  without 
whose  redemption,  as  we  read  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  our  spirits  would 
have  been  banished  forever  from  the  divine  presence,  and  our  bodies 
would  have  mouldered  in  the  dust  forever.  But  through  that  atonement 
wrought  out  by  Jesus  Christ,  and  by  our  obedience  to  his  commandments 
we  shall  come  forth  from  the  dust  and  stand  upon  our  feet  and  have  all 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE.  2i 

things  that  we  have  made  ourselves  fit  for  by  our  own  acts.  Forgive- 
ness of  sins,  redemption  from  personal  sin,  is  a  doctrine  of  Christ  to  be 
obtained  in  the  way  that  he  has  appointed.  He  died  that  we  might  live, 
and  thus  he  atoned  for  the  sin  of  Adam.  He  died  that  we  might  live 
and  attain  glory  if  we  would  repent  and  obey  his  commandments  and 
receive  the  blessings  in  the  way  he  has  appointed ;  and  our  mission  in 
the  world  here,  what  we  have  come  on  the  earth  to  do,  is  to  live  that 
gospel  and  carry  it  to  the  ends  of  the  earth  and  send  it  forth  to  all  peo- 
ple, that  all  nations  may  hear  the  glorious  sound  of  the  glad  tidings  of 
salvation  to  the  human  race.  And  when  we  have  done  with  our  earthly 
work  and  gone  into  the  world  of  spirits,  that  we  might  be  allowed  there 
to  carry  it  to  any  part  of  the  spirit  spheres,  even  into  the  lowest  hell, 
if  necessary,  in  the  great  work  of  saviors  of  the  children  of  men,  so  that 
the  laws  of  God  might  be  proclaimed,  that  God's  truths  might  be  made 
known,  that  opportunity  might  be  given  to  all  the  race  of  Adam,  in  the 
body  or  out  of  the  body,  to  receive  the  truth  and  walk  in  its  light,  and 
come  as  near  as  possible,  considering  their  conditions  and  transactions 
and  doings,  as  near  as  possible  to  the  light  and  glory  and  presence  of  the 
Father.  These  are  themes  that  are  very  simple,  very  plain,  very  clear 
to  us  all. 

> 

UNITY  AMONG  THE  LEADERS  OF  THE  CHURCH. 

Now,  let  us  live  according  to  the  teachings  given  tc  us  this  morn- 
ing, walk  in  the  ways  of  the  Lord,  teach  them  to  our  children,  set  a  good 
example  to  all  the  world,  put  away  from  us  everything  that  is  contral- 
to the  mind  and  will  of  the  Lord,  and  become  sanctified  before  him,  a 
holy  and  a  mighty  people,  saviors  on  Mount  Zion,  and  our  kingdom,  or 
the  kingdom  that  we  are  in  is  indeed  the  Lord's  and  we  will  be  his  peo  - 
ple. May  his  peace  abide  with  you,  may  the  blessings  and  power  of  God 
rest  down  upon  President  Smith  and  heal  him  up  fully,  and  upon  all  our 
brethren  who  are  laboring  with  him.  I  want  to  say  that  we  are  united. 
There  is  no  jar,  no  contention,  no  quarreling  among  the  leaders  of  the 
Church.  We  are  united  in  spirit.  We  bless  and  praise  the  Lord  for  his 
goodness  to  us.  We  enjoy  each  other's  presence  and  company  and  soci- 
ety. We  are  a  band  of  brethren.  We  are  knitted  and  united  together. 
We  are  one  before  the  Lord  as  near  as  human  beings  can  be  with  the 
failings  and  .weaknesses  of  mortality ;  and  we  love  the  children  of  men, 
and  we  want  to  see  salvation  come  to  all  people  who  will  receive  it.  We 
want  to  see  salvation  come  to  this  nation,  we  want  the  principles  of  the 
government  of  the  United  States  to  be  exalted  here  and  eventually 
throughout  the  world,  as  the  preparation  for  the  coming  of  him  whose 
right  it  is  to  reign,  Jesus  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God. 

May  the  peace  and  blessings  of  God  abide  with  you  all,  through 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  sacred  duet  :  "Hail  to  the  ing,"  was  sung  by  Prof.  J.  R.  Bosh- 
brightness  of  Zion's    glad    morn-     ard  and  Marie  Hedquist. 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

I  rejoice  in  being-  permitted  again  to  meet  with  the  Saints  in  general 
conference.  I  do  most  earnestly  and  humbly  pray  that  the  Lord  will 
assist  me  to  give  utterance  to  some  of  the  thoughts  which  have  come  into 
my  mind  during  the  last  few  months  and  while  listening  to  the  remarks 
made  since  our  conference  opened,  and  to  the  beautiful  songs  sung  in  our 
hearing.  I  do  not  desire  to  say  one  word  that  shall  offend,  or  that  shall 
not  be  in  keeping  with  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord.  In  all  humility  I 
desire  the  assistance  of  your  faith  and  your  prayers,  that  what  I  may  say 
may  be  for  the  benefit  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  here  assembled. 

HYMNS  APPROPRIATE  TO  PRESENT  CONDITIONS. 

It  has  seemed  to  me  that  the  hymns  sung  in  our  hearing  since  this 
conference  opened  are  wonderfully  appropriate  to  the  present  condition 
of  affairs  in  all  the  world.  I  believe  in  very  deed  that  it  is  a  time  when 
the  Latter-day  Saints  should  feel  in  their  hearts  the  inspiration  which 
came  to  Brother  William  Clayton  when  the  great  pioneer,  Brigham 
Young,  told  him  to  write  a  hymn  that  should  cheer  and  bless  the  Saints 
in  their  great  pioneer  journey  to  these  fair  valleys.  Brother  Clayton 
wrote:  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil  nor  labor  fear,  but  with  joy  wend 
your  way."  And  again:  "Why  should  we  think  to  earn  a  great  reward, 
if  we  now  shun  the  fight?"  And  again:  "And  .should  we  die  before  our 
journey's  through,  happy  day,  all  is  well."  I  feel  that  we  are  entering 
today,  as  a  part  of  our  grand  Nation,  upon  a  great  and  wonderful  journey, 
that  we  are  engaging  in  a  war  of  righteousness  in  which  the  Nation  is 
risking  its  life,  a  war  which  undoubtedly  will  mean  death  to  many  of  the 
noble  boys  who  have  volunteered  or  been  drafted  into  the  army  and  navy. 
I  feel  that  every  Latter-day  Saint  can  with  fervent  spirit  sing  this  splendid 
pioneer  hymn,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil  nor  labor  fear,"  and  that 
those  who  have  an  abiding  faith  in  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  his  redeem- 
ing blood,  should  go  forth  to  war  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  and 
that  they  can  honestly  and  conscientiously  pray  that  the  Lord  will  pre- 
serve and  bless  them  and  give  them  success,  even  in  war. 

I  think  one  of  the  grandest  hymns  which  has  ever  been  written  by 
any  of  our  local  poets  is  John  Jaques' 

0  Say,  IV hat  is  Truth:' 

O  say,  what  is  truth?    Tis  the  fairest  gem 

That  the  riches  of  worlds  can  produce; 
And  priceless  the  value  of  truth  will  be  when 
The  proud  monarch's  costliest  diadem 

Is  counted  but  dross  and  refuse. 

Yes,  say,  what  is  truth?    'Tis  the  brightest  prize 

To  which  mortals  or  gods  can  aspire ; 
Go  search  in  the  depths  where  it  glittering  lies. 
Or  ascend  in  pursuit  to  the  loftiest  skies; 

'Tis  an  aim  for  the  noblest  desire. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


2  b 


The  scepter  may  fall  from  the  despot's  grasp 

When  with  winds  of  stern  justice  he  copes, 
But  the  pillar  of  truth  will  endure  to  the  last, 
And  its  firm-rooted  bulwarks  outstand  the  rude  blast, 
And  the  wreck  of  the  fell  tyrant's  hopes. 

Then,  say,  what  is  truth?   'Tis  the  last  and  the  first, 

For  the  limits  of  time  it  steps  o'er: 
Though  the  heavens  depart,  and  the  earth's  fountains  burst, 
Truth,  the  sum  of  existence,  will  weather  the  worst, 

Eternal,  unchanged,  evermore. 

"out  of  their  own  mouths." 

A  couple  of  days  ago  a  friend  of  mine  lent  me  this  book  that  I  have 
not  yet  read.  It  is  entitle:!,  Out  of  their  own  Mouths,  and  the  scripture 
quotation,  "Out  of  thine  own  mouth  will  I  judge  thee,"  is  on  the  cover 
of  the  book.  Sentiments  which  are  anything  but  true.  Speaking  of 
truth,  let  me  quote  from  Frederick  the  Great.  Frederick  was  one  of  the 
men  who  stole  those  provinces  and  robbed  other  people  of  their  posses- 
sions, as  referred  to  by  President  Lund  this  morning. 

If  there  is  anything  to  be  gained  by  it,  we  will  be  honest;  if  deception  is 
necessary,  let  us  be  cheats. — Frederick  II,  Letter  to  Minister  Radziwill. 

Remember  this  standard  of  "Truth"  of  Frederick  the  Great : 

Do  not  be  ashamed  to  make  alliances  with  a  view  to  gaining  advantage 
'from  them  for  yourself  only. 

Do  not  commit  the  gross  blunder  of  not  abandoning  them  when  it  suits 
your  interest. 

One  takes  when  one  can,  and  one  is  wrong  only  when  obliged  to  give  back. 

I  understand  by  the  word  "policy"  that  one  must  make  it  his  study  to  de- 
ceive others;  that  is  the  way  to  get  the  better  of  them— Works  of  Frederick  II, 
Berlin  edition  (1848). 

No  ministers  at  home,  but  clerks.    No  ministers  abroad,  but  spies. 

Form  alliances  only  in  order  to  sow  animosities. 

Kindle  and  prolong  war  between  my  neighbors. 

Always  promise  help  and  never  send  it. 

There  is  only  one  person  in  the  kingdom,  that  is  myself. — Marginal  notes 
in  a  copy  of  Tacitus,  written  by  the  King  and  cited  by  Diderot. 

"All  written  constitutions  are  only  scraps  of  paper." — Frederick  Wil- 
liam IV,  Speech  from  the  Throne,  April  11,  1847.  Remember  in  contrast 
our  beloved  "Mormon"  poet  John  Jaques'  inspired  words :  "Truth,  the 
sum  of  existence,  will  weather  the  worst,  eternal,  unchanged,  evermore." 

Here  are  some  of  the  truthful  (  ?)  statements  of  the  present  kaiser 
of  Germany.  When  meeting  a  general  and  the  governor  of  the  province 
of  Liege,  he  said  when  they  visited  Berlin : 

"You  are  the  governor  of  a  province  with  which  we  have  always 
maintained  good  neighborly  relations.  Recently,  I  understand,  you  have 
felt  in  your  country  serious  apprehensions.  Believe  me,  these  apprehen- 
sions were  unnecessary." 


26 


« 

GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


And  at  a  banquet  following-  the  interview,  he  said  to  the  general  from 
Belgium:  "You  were  quite  right  to  trust  us."  The  solemn  word  of 
honor  of  a  nation  guaranteed  the  neutrality  of  Belgium,  but  that  word  of 
honor  was  a  "scrap  of  paper."  "You  do  right  to  trust  us."  By  trusting 
that  emperor,  what  came?  The  destruction  by  the  thousands  and  tens  of 
thousands  of  Belgium's  citizens,  the  destroying  of  their  property,  the  levy- 
ing upon  them  of  vast  sums,  the  taking  of  millions  of  the  nation  as  pris- 
oners, and  making  them  work  in  as  hateful  a  slavery  as  existed  in  the 
South  before  the  days  of  the  rebellion. 

We  shall  conquer  everywhere,  even  though  we  be  surrounded  by  enemies 
on  all  sides;  for  there  lives  a  powerful  ally,  the  old,  good  God  in  heaven,  who 
*    *    *    has  always  been  on  our  side. — William  II,  Speech,  March  28,  1901. 

He  talks  as  familiarly  as  the  man  who  profanes  the  name  of  the 
living  God.  It  is  a  profanation  of  the  living  God  to  talk  about  his  being 
on  the  side  of  a  nation  which  breaks  its  solemn  pledges,  and  treats  con- 
stitutions and  treaties  as  "scraps  of  paper." 

I  believe,  as  does  our  beloved  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  that  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States  was  written  by  the  inspiration  of 
Almighty  God.  I  was  taught  this  from  the  knee  of  my  dear  mother,  who 
has  passed  to  her  reward  in  heaven.  I  know  that  any  ruler  who  claims 
to  be  the  representative  of  Almighty  God  who  would  take  away  the  lib- 
erties of  his  fellow  men,  is  not  a  representative  from  God.  You  can  draw 
your  own  conclusions  whom  he  does  represent.  I  was  going  to  tell,  but 
maybe  I  would  better  not. 

Remember  that  you  are  the  chosen  people!  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  has 
descended  upon  me  because  J  am  the  Emperor  of  the  Germans! 

I  am  the  instrument  of  the  Almighty.  I  am  his  sword,  his  agent.  Woe 
and  death  to  all  those  who  shall  oppose  my  will!  Woe  and  death  to  those  who 
do  not  believe  in  my  mission!    Woe  and  death  to  the  cowards! 

Let  them  perish,  all  the  enemies  of  the  German  people!  God  demands 
their  destruction,  God  who,  by  my  mouth,  bids  you  to  do  his  will! — William  II, 
Proclamation  to  the  Army  of  the  East,  1914. 

No  honest  person  need  be  told  where  the  inspiration  for  such  a 
damnable  statement  comes. 

The  triumph  of  the  greater  Germany,  which  some  day  must  dominate  all 
Europe,  is  the  single  end  for  which  we  are  fighting. — William  II,  Proclamation, 
June,  1915. 

Not  by  speeches  and  resolutions  of  majorities  are  the  great  questions  of 
the  time  decided — that  was  the  mistake  of  1848  and  1849 — but  bv  iron  and 
blood. — Bismarck,  in  the  Military  Committee  of  the  Prussian  Chamber  of 
Deputies,  1862. 

INSPIRED  POEMS. 

When  I  was  in  Germany,  some  years  aeo,  while  presiding  over  the 
European  Mission,  I  had  the  pleasure  of  visiting  many  of  the  cities  upon 
the  continent,  and  one  of  the  cities  that  I  visited  was  Berlin,  one  of  the 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


27 


handsomest  in  all  the  world,  another  was  Dresden.  While  riding  from 
Dresden  to  Berlin  I  read  and  committed  to  memory  a  poem,  by  Goethe, 
Germany's  greatest  poet.  I  believe  that  John  Jaques,  William  Clayton, 
Parley  P.  Pratt,  Eliza  R.  Snow  and  others,  whose  beautiful  hymns  we 
have  heard  sung  here  today,  were  inspired  by  the  Lord.  I  believe  that 
men  like  Goethe,  in  writing,  are  inspired  of  the  Lord,  when  they  are  up- 
right and  honest  and  endeavor  to  write  that  which  is  uplifting  and  noble. 
I  would  to  God  that  every  German  would  learn  the  four  short  verses  of 
Goethe's  poem  as  I  did  and  realize  that  they  are  divinely  inspired  words : 

Three  Lessons. 

There  are  three  lessons  I  would  write, 

Three  words  as  with  a  burning  pen; 
In  tracings  of  eternal  light 

Upon  the  hearts  of  men. 

Have  faith,  though  clouds  environ  round 
And  gladness  hides  her  face  in  scorn, 

Put-off  the  darkness  from  thy  brow, 
No  night  but  hath  its  morn. 

Have  hope  where'er  thy  bark  be  driven, 
The  calm  distorts  the  tempest's  mirth; 

Know  this,  God  rules  the  hosts  of  heaven, 
The  inhabitants  of  earth. 

I  hope  Kaiser  William  will  live  to  have  these  words  burned  into  his 
very  brain :  "Know  this,  God  rules  the  hosts  of  heaven,  the  inhabitants 
of  earth."  Goethe  winds  up  with  this  supreme  declaration  of  love,  a 
declaration  in  keeping  with  the  teachings  of  our  Lord  and  Master,  Jesus 
Christ ;  a  declaration  in  keeping  with  the  will  of  our  Father  in  heaven : 

Have  love — not  love  alone  for  one, 

But  man  as  man  thy  brother  call, 
And  scatter  as  a  circling  sun 

Thy  charities  on  all. 

WHAT  THE  KAISER  SAYS  HE  IS. 

What  kind  of  charities  have  been  scattered  by  the  ruling-  house  of 
Germany?  Murder,  rapine,  robbery,  is  the  kind  of  charity  and  love  which 
thev  have  scattered.  Let  me  read  to  von  the  words  of  the  Kaiser  from  a 
book  entitled,  My  Ideas  and  Ideals — William  II ; 

As  I  look  upon  myself  as  an  instrument  of  the  Lord,  I  am  indifferent  to 
the  point  of  view  of  the  present  day. 

I,  too,  like  my  imperial  grandfather,  represent  the  kingship  by  God's 
grace. 

Each  of  the  Hohenzollern  princes  was  from  the  outset  of  his  career  con- 
scious that  he  was  only  God's  vicegerent  upon  earth. 

Again  I  say  the  inspiration  of  William  II  comes  from  a  different 
source  than  from  God — (the  speaker  here  pointed  downward). 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


My  course  is  the  right  one,  and  in  it  I  shall  continue  to  steer. 
There  is  only  one  master  in  this  country;  I  am  he,  and  I  will  not  tolerate 
another. 

There  was  only  one  master,  so  Napoleon  Bonaparte  thought,  but  he' 
did  not  finally  triumph.  "Know  this,  God  rules  the  hosts  of  heaven,  The 
inhabitants  of  earth;"  and  the  kaiser  will  find  this  out  if  he  lives  long 
enough,  and  I  hope  and  pray  he  will. 

There  is  only  one  law — my  law;  the  law  which  I  myself  lay  down. 

There  is  the  law  of  justice,  there  is  the  law  of  virtue,  there  is  the 
law  of  honor,  there  is  the  law  of  Almighty  God,  that  this  man  and  those 
who  sustain  him  are  violating,  and  they  will  find  it  out ! 

The  best  word  is  a  blow — the  Army  and  Navy  are  the  pillars  of  the  State. 

An  immense  amount  of  inspiration  from  Alm:ghty  God  in  this  in- 
famous statement.  The  following  sentence  of  less  than  three  lines  tells 
whether  this  man  represents  the  Lord  Almighty  or  not : 

Hurrah  for  the  dry  powder  and  the  sharp  sword,  for  the  end  we  have  in 
sight  and  the  forces  we  are  bending  towards  it,  for  the  German  Army  and  the 
General  Staff. 

A  fine  representative  of  God ! 

PAN-GERMANISM. 

I  had  the  privilege  of  becoming  acquainted  on  the  steamer  with  a 
German  who  was  returning  from  Japan,  who  had  been  there  training  the 
Japanese  army.  I  learned  that  he  believed  that  nrght  was  right,  and  that 
weak  nations  had  no  right  to  live.  The  teachings  of  our  Father  in 
heaven  and  of  our  Redeemer  are  just  the  exact  opposite  of  any  doctrines 
of  that  kind.  I  recommend  you  to  read  a  book  entitled  Pan-Germany,  a 
little  twenty-five-cent  pamphlet.  You  will  find  that  Germany  started  out 
to  do  exactly  what  President  Lund  said  they  expected  to  do,  to  gain 
dominion  through  the  heart  of  Europe  from  the  North  Sea  clear  down 
to  the  Persian  Gulf;  and  if  they  get  peace  today,  without  indemnities  they 
have  won  the  war.  Germany  has  since  the  beginning  of  this  conflict 
placed  over  75,000,000  people  under  her  dominion,  and  she  is  working 
millions  of  these  people  in  her  fields  and  factories. 

WHAT  GERMANY  WOULD  DO. 

For  example,  they  worked  one  girl  in  the  harvest  fields  from  sun-up 
until  dark,  and  they  pa:d  her  for  six  mortal  months'  labor  less  than  two 
dollars.  From  the  time  that  the  war  broke  out  until  February,  a  year 
ago,  the  National  Imperial  Bank  increased  its  reserves  from  1,300,000,000 
marks  to  2,500,000.000  marks.    They  are  enslaving  Turkey  and  Austria- 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT, 


29 


Hungary  financially  by  selling  to  them  the  munitions  of  war  which  are 
used  in  the  interest  of  the  German  empire.  Their  allies  have  been  prac- 
tically bankrupted  by  Germany  running  a  printing  press  and  furnishing 
them  money.  Today  if  Germany  could  get  peace  without  indemnities  she 
could  enslave  the  world.  The  kaiser  claims  to  be  the  representative  of 
God,  but  he  knows  nothing  about  the  laws  of  God,  or  of  justice,  and  this 
is  why  he  will  eventually  be  defeated.  The  Lord  has  said  that  this  land 
of  America  is  a  choice  land  above  all  other  lands,  and  that  if  the  people 
are  pure  in  heart  and  serve  him,  that  it  shall  be  preserved  from  any  king 
ever  ruling  here.  That  is  the  word  of  God  to  his  ancient  servants  upon 
this  continent,  as  recorded  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  The  Kaiser  mistook 
the  fiber  of  the  Belgian  people.  He  thought  might  was  so  great  in  the 
empire  that  he  ruled  over,  that  the  Belgians  would  not  dare  oppose  him. 
but  those  Belgians  gave  their  lives  for  truth  and  honor.  He  thought  that 
France  would  not  dare  fight,  but  the  Frenchmen  offered  their  lives  upon 
the  altar  of  honor.  He  never  dreamed  for  a  moment  that  England  un- 
prepared would  enter  the  war,  but  again  he  mistook  the  character  of  the 
English  people.  He  instructed  his  legions  to  "destroy  the  little  contempti- 
ble English  army."  He  believed  that  he  had  the  might'  to  crush  them, 
but  the  people  of  England  stepped  forward  with  that  sense  of  honor, 
right  and  justice  which  is  inborn  in  her  people,  and  fulfilled  her  pledges 
to  Belgium. 

AN  INFAMOUS  CONCEPTION. 

Now  I  want  to  read  to  you -one  of  the  most  infamous  things  that  was 
ever  conceived  by  a  ruling  class : 

In  1895,  when  Germany  decided  upon  what  she  wanted,  (viz.,  to  conquer 
the  world,)  she  proceeded  to  make  a  list  of  all  Germans  on  the  face  of  the 
globe,  in  order  to  pick  out  from  among  them  those  who  were  most  likely  to 
prove  useful  tools  of  carrying  out  the  Pan-German  plan.  The  result  of  this 
registration  of  the  German  element  throughout  the  world  may  be  found  in  the 
Pan-German  Atlas  of  Paul  Langhans,  published  by  Justus  Perthes,  at  Gotha,  in 
1909.  (The  Pan-German  plan  was  to  split  Europe  through  the  center  and 
eventually  to  conquer  the  world.) 

The  Pan-German  societies  have  carried  on  a  vigorous  propaganda  among 
all  these  Germans,  especially  since  1900,  and  in  Argentina  and  Brazil,  which 
were  intended  to  be  the  principal  German  protectorates,  they  were  organized 
with  particular  care.  The  German  law  of  July  22,  1913,  known  as  Delbruck's, 
which  deals  with  nationality  under  the  Empire  and  under  the  State, _  has  greatly 
favored  German  organization  in  America,  and  it  is  important  to  know  at  least 
the  gist  of  it,  since  it  is  full  of  significance,  and  marks  the  last  stage  of  Pan- 
German  organization  prior  to  the  war. 

The  second  part  of  its  article  25,  reads  as  follows:  "If  any  person  before 
acquiring  nationality  in  a  foreign  state  shall  have  received  the  written  per- 
mission of  a  competent  authority  of  his  native  state  to  retain  his  nationality  of 
that  state,  he  shall  not  lose  his  nationality  of  the  said  native  state.  The  Ger- 
man consul  shall  be  consulted  before  this  permission  is  granted." 

•"From  these  words  we  can  measure  the  depth  of  German  astuteness," 
and  pardon  my  saying,  we  can  measure  the  depth  of  depravity  of  the  Ger- 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


man  statesmen,  who  ask  men  to  bold  up  their  hands  before  high  heaven 
and  pledge  allegiance  to  another  country,  when  they  never  intended  to 
fulfil  that  pledge  made  in  solemn  covenant  before  God.  "According  to 
this  provision  a  German  may  become  a  citizen  of  a  foreign  state  but  if 
he  obtains  a  written  permission  'from  a  competent  authority  of  his  native 
State,'  he  still  continues  to  enjoy,  for  himself  and  his  descendants,  all  the 
rights  of  a  German  citizen,  and  may  claim  the  protection  of  the  German 
Empire."    Such  a  law  is  infamous  beyond  my  language  to  tell. 

WHAT  HAS  BEEN  DONE  FOR  THE  WAR  IN  UTAH. 


I  want  to  read  what  we  have  done  here  in  Utah  for  the  war  in  which 
we  are  engaged — a  brief  summary  made  on  December  21,  1917: 

Men  Supplied  by  Utah. 

Army — quota  asked  for    746  men 

Furnished   •  2,344  men 

Marines — quota  asked  for   126  men 

Furnished    346  men 

Navy — no  quota — Utah  and  Southern  Idaho  furnished   641  men 

Utah  also  furnished  one  regiment  of  field  artillery  and  one  field  hospital ..  1,500 

Asked,  872;  given,  4,831  men. 

Red  Cross — apportionment   $350,000 

Raised  $520^000 

First  Liberty  Loan — apportionment   $6,500,000 

Amount  subscribed   $9,400*000 

This  is  one  of  the  largest  amounts  raised,  in  proportion,  by  any  State  in 
this  Federal  Reserve  District. 

Second  Liberty  Loan — minimum  apportionment  $10,000,000 

Amount  subscribed   $16,200',000 

Soldiers'  Welfare  Fund,  including  Y.  M.  C.  A.  and  Training  Camp 

Recreation  Fund — apportionment  $100,000 

Amount  raised   $105*000 

Red  Cross  Membership  Campaign — allotment  60,000  members 

Subscribers   66^000  members 

Asked,  $17,010,000;  Giver.,  $26,291,000 

NO  QUESTION  EVER  SETTLED  UNTIL  IT'S  SETTLED  RIGHT. 

Allow  me  to  read  to  you  the  inspired  words  of  Ella  Wheeler  Wilcox. 
She  has  entitled  her  poem 


An  Inspiration. 

However  the  battle  is  ended, 

Though  proudly  the  victor  comes, 
With  fluttering  flags  and  prancing  steeds 

And  echo  of  rolling  drums, 
Still  truth  proclaims  the  motto, 

In  letters  of  living  light, 
No  question  is  ever  settled 

Until  it  is  settled  right. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


31 


Though  the  heel  of  the  strong  oppressor 

May  grind  the  weak  in  the  dust; 
And  the  voices  of  fame  with  one  acclaim 

May  call  him  great  and  just; 
Let  those  who  applaud  take  warning 

And  keep  this  motto  in  sight — 
No  question  is  ever  settled 

Until  it  is  settled  right. 

Let  those  who  have  failed  take  courage, 

Though  the  enemy  seems  to  have  won; 
Though  his  ranks  are  strong,  if  he  be  in  the  wrong, 

The  battle  is  not  yet  done; 
For  sure  as  the  morning  follows 

The  darkest  hour  of  the  night, 
No  question  is  ever  settled 

Until  it  is  settled  right. 

O  man,  bowed  down  with  labor, 

O  woman,  young,  yet  old; 
O  heart,  oppressed  in  the  toiler's  breast, 

And  crushed  by  the  power  of  gold, 
Keep  on  with  your  weary  battle 

Against  triumphant  might; 
No  question  is  ever  settled 

Until  it  is  settled  right. 

Let  me  again  quote  Goethe :  "Know  this,  God  rules  the  hosts  of 
heaven,  the  inhabitants  of  earth." 

LOYALTY  OF  GERMAN  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 

In  my  anxiety  to  get  through  with  as  many  items  as  possible  in 
twenty-five  minutes  I  came  near  neglecting  to  say  one  thing  which  I  desire 
to  say :  I  have  never  traveled  with  a  man  who  impressed  me  more  as 
loving  God,  and  more  determined  to  give  to  this  work  of  our  Redeemer 
his  life's  labor,  than  did  the  late  Karl  G.  Maeser.  I  believe  that  the  men 
and  women  that  the  gospel  found  in  Germany,  and  who  in  all  honor  em- 
braced it,  are  as  loyal,  as  true,  and  as  patriotic  as  any  other  people  who 
have  joined  the  Church  of  Christ.  The  night  following  my  call  for  a 
mission  to  Japan  I  lay  awake  until  after  three  o'clock  in  the  morning,  and 
in  thinking  of  those  who  were  aged,  and  whom  I  hoped  and  prayed 
might  live  until  I  returned,  I  thought  of  my  own  dear  mother,  of  John  R. 
Winder,  of  George  Romney,  of  Karl  G.  Maeser,  and  of  others  whom  I 
loved  with  all  my  heart.  I  feel  that  the  Germans  who  have  embraced  the 
Truth  and  who  have  the  love  of  God  and  the  love  of  our  Redeemer  in 
their  hearts,  are  as  willing  to  go  forth  to  battle  against  wrong  and  error 
as  the  people  of  any  other  nation  who  have  embraced  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  who  know  the  Truth  to  go  on  proclaiming  it, 
and  bringing  people  to  a  knowledge  of  the  Redeemer,  and  teaching  them 
to  love  their  fellow  men  instead  of  robbing  and  killing  them,  is  my  prayer 
and  desire,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 

Obtaining  knowledge  by  study  and  by 
faith — Value  of  the  book  of  Genesis 
— It  answers  perfectly  the  false  doc- 
trine of  evolution — The  law  of  mar- 
riage instituted  that  mankind  might 
multiply  and  replenish  the  earth — 
Relationship  of  Abraham  to  us  and 
the  world — The  lesson  of  obedience 
in  the  lives  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and 
Jacob1 — The  blessings  of  these  patri- 
archs have  come  down  to  us — Mod- 
ern Scripture  to  be  studied,  and  also 
the  counsels  of  the  living  oracles. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  "The  glory 
of  God  is  intelligence,"  and  this 
great  truth  is  confirmed  and  em- 
phasized in  another  statement  oc- 
curring in  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants. The  Lord,  in  speaking  to 
Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet,  said : 
"As  all  have  not' faith,  seek  ye  dili- 
gently and  teach  one  another  words 
of  wisdom ;  seek  ye  out  of  the  best 
books  words  of  wisdom.  Seek 
learning  even  by  study  and  also  bv 
faith." 

I  take  it  that  this  is  very  im- 
portant counsel  to  the  Church  of 
God.  We  know  that  there  are  two 
ways  of  getting  intelligence — one  is 
by  .study,  the  other  is  by  faith ;  and 
these  two  methods  go  well  hand  in 
hand.  The  injunction  is  that  we 
should  seek  words  of  wisdom  out 
of  the  best  books.  The  world  to- 
day is  full  of  literature.  There  are 
very  many  good  books,  but  as  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  of  Christ  I  as- 
sume we  will  agree  that  the  very 
best  books  in  the  world  today  are 
the  standard  church  works — the 
Bible,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  the 
Pearl  of  Great  Price.  Take,  for  ex- 
ample, the  Bible.  This  book,  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  has  come  down 
through  the  centuries  of  the  past 
and  is  hoary  with  age,  but  never- 


theless it  breathes  forth  the  very 
strength  and  vigor  of  youth.  It 
contains  many  wise  sayings  and 
thrilling"  incidents  and  teachings  of 
priceless  value.  From  this  book 
and  other  church  works  we  are  con- 
stantly taking  lessons  and  compil- 
ing them  into  manuals  and  sending 
them  forth  into  our  various  organi- 
zations and  priesthood  classes  and 
auxiliary  associations,  but  .  these 
books  are  especially  recommended 
for  general  use  throughout  the 
Church  and  for  careful  study,  and 
should  often  be  consulted  by  Lat- 
ter-day Saints. 

Referring  to  the  Bible,  I  may  say 
that  if  there  was  not  one  vestige  of 
the  Holy  Record  left  to  us  but  the 
book  of  Genesis,  it  would  still  be 
worth  while,  and  would  be  of  price- 
less value  to  the  children  of  men. 
In  the  first  chapter  of  Genesis  many 
valuable  truths  are  imparted.  We 
learn  that  God  created  the  heavens 
and  the  earth  and  all  things  that  in 
them  are.  We  are  also  given  to 
understand  in  this  matter  of  crea- 
tion that  the  Lord  operated  and 
worked  in  an  orderly  way  and  by 
law,  for  we  are  told  that  the  Lord 
God  of  heaven  and  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ  work  by  law,  that  in  the  be- 
ginning things  came  into  being  by 
the  power  of  God.  God*  said,  "Let 
there  be  light,"  and  there  was  light, 
and  this  was  effected,  as  I  have  just 
said,  by  the  power  of  God. 

We  are  told  that  God  made  the 
beasts  of  the  earth  after  their  kind, 
and  the  fishes  of  the  sea  after  their 
kind,  and  the  winged  fowl  of  the  air 
after  its  kind,  and  every  creeping 
thing  that  creepeth  upon  the  earth, 
after  its  kind.  And  the  Lord  saw 
that  they  were  good,  and  he  blessed 
them,  saying,  "Multiply  and  fill  the 
waters  of  the  deep,  Let  the  fowl 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAW  SON. 


33 


multiply  upon  the  earth."  But  the 
supreme  creative  act  came  with  the 
appearance  of  man.  ''And  the  Lord 
said,  Let  us  make  man  in  our  own 
image  and  after  our  likeness,  and 
let  him  have  dominion  over  the 
fishes  of  the  sea  and  the  fowls  of 
the  air  and  over  the  earth  and  every 
living  creature."  "So  God  made 
man  in  his  own  image,  in  his  own 
image  made  he  him,  male  and  fe- 
male created  he  them."  But  the 
Lord  did  not  stop  there,  he  blessed 
them  and  he  said,  "Be  fruitful  and 
multiply  and  replenish  the  earth 
and  subdue  it  and  have  dominion 
over  it,"  and  so  forth. 

Now,  it  seems  to  me  that  there  is 
to  be  a  very  great  lesson  learned 
from  this  important  chapter  in  the 
Bible.  In  the  first  place,  I  think 
that  it  answers  perfectly  the  false 
doctrine  of  evolution.  We  are  dis- 
tinctly given  to  understand  that 
every  living  creature  was  made 
after  its  kind.  We  are  not  to  ex- 
pect that  a  lion  will  grow  into  a 
horse,  or  that  a  cow  will  grow  into 
an  elephant,  but  we  have  reason  to 
believe  that  a  horse  will  always  be 
a  horse.  You  may  be  able  to  im- 
prove the  horse,  but  it  will  still  be 
a  horse,  and  so  with  the  other  ,  ani- 
mals of  God's  creation. 

And  since  man  in  the  beginning 
was  made  in  the  imag'e  of  God  and 
after  his  likeness,  and  since  he  is 
still  in  the  image  of  God  and  will 
so  continue,  we  have  no  reason  to 
conclude  that  there  has  ever  been 
any  change  at  all  in  the  order  of 
things  as  first  instituted. 

Furthermore,  you  will  remember, 
and  there  is  a  great  lesson  in  it, 
that  God  commanded  these  living 
creatures  throughout  all  the  animal 
kingdom  as  also  man  to  be  fruitful 
and  multiply   and    replenish  the 


earth,  but  man  could  not  properly 
do  this  without  matrimony,  and  so 
God  instituted  the  law  of  marriage 
in  the  garden  of  Eden.  We  must 
know  from  this  that  marriage  is 
honorable,  because  it  originated 
with  the  Almighty.  He  introduced 
it  in  the  garden  of  Eden,  and  this 
law  has  since  prevailed  throughout 
the  earth.  But  we  also  find  in  many 
places  and  in  very  many  instances 
that  the  command  of  God  is  not 
obeyed,  and  that  people,  even  those 
who  are  married,  sometimes  do  not 
fulfil  this  obligation,  for  they  are 
not  fruitful  and  do  not  multiply  and 
replenish  the  earth.  In  that  partic- 
ular they  come  short.  This  ought 
not  to  be  so  with  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  It  is  expected  of  us  that 
we  shall  be  a  fruitful  people,  that 
we  shall  become  a  numerous  people, 
that  the  Church  shall  g'row  until  it 
shall  fill  the  whole  earth,  because  it 
has  in  it  the  spirit  of  endurance. 
As  Latter-day  Saints  we  must  of 
necessity  obey  this  great  and  im- 
portant law  of  marriage.  That  is 
one  of  the  lessons  that  comes  down 
to  us  from  the  very  beginning. 

How  very  beautiful,  brethren  and 
sisters,  is  the  story  of  the  patriarchs, 
our  progenitors.  What  would  we 
know  about  them,  how  could  we 
ascertain  their  names,  how  coukl  we 
learn  what  they  did,  if  it  were  not 
for  the  record,  and  I  ask  you  can- 
didly, how  could  we  know  anyhow, 
unless  we  searched  the  record  and 
made  a  study  of  it,  because  I  take 
it  that  you  cannot  find  any  knowl- 
edge in  the  mind  of  man  that  is  not 
put  there. 

Take  Abraham,  for  instance. 
Have  you  ever  thought  of  him? 
Have  you  ever  considered  his  re- 
lationship to  us  and  to  the  world? 
It  seems  upon  one  occasion  that  God 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


appeared  unto  Abraham  and  com- 
manded him  to*  leave  his  country 
and  go  out  from  among  his  own 
people  into  a  strange,  land.  Abra- 
ham did  not  hesitate.  He  obeyed 
the  voice  of  God  willingly,  and- 
when  he  came  into  this  strange 
country  the  Lord  said  to  him,  "Lift 
up  now  thine  eyes  from  the  place 
where  thou  art  to  the  northward 
and  the  southward,  to  the  eastward 
and  the  westward,  for  all  the  land 
that  thou  seest,  to  thee  will  I  give  it 
and  to  thy  seed,  and  I  will  make  thy 
seed  as  the  dust  of  the  earth,  so  that 
if  any  man  can  number  the  dust  of 
the  earth,  so  also  shall  thy  seed  be 
numbered."  What  a  wonderful  say- 
ing, what  a  glorious  promise !  and 
the  lesson  that  we  can  draw  from 
it  is  that  Abraham  was  obedient,  he 
was  willing  to  follow  the  voice  of 
counsel  and  to  do  the  will  of  God, 
and  thus  he  secured  a  blessing. 
Upon  another  occasion  he  was  sub- 
iected  to  a  very  severe  test,  as  great, 
I  think,  as  any  test  that  could  come 
to  us  or  any  one  of  us.  The  Lord 
commanded  him  to  take  his  beloved 
son,  the  son  of  promise,  to  take 
Isaac  up  into  a  mountain  and  offer 
up  as  a  sacrifice  to  the  Lord. 
To  do  this  he  must  needs  slay  his 
son  with  his  own  hand.  But  he  did 
not  hesitate.  No.  It  was  the  com- 
mand of  God.  He  responded  read- 
ily— I  would  not  say  willingly — it 
must  have  been  a  great  sorrow  to 
him,  but  he  was  obedient  and  the 
Lord  accepted  this  act  upon  the  part 
of  Abraham  as  a  sign  of  obedience 
and  of  righteousness,  and  did  not 
require  the  sacrifice.  After  the 
offering  was  made  then  came  the 
blessing,  in  other  words,  after  the 
sacr'fice  comes  the  blessing.  The 
Lord  then  said  to  Abraham,  "By 
myself   have  I  sworn,    saith  the 


Lord,  for  because  thou  hast  done 
this  thing  and  hast  not  withheld  thy 
son,  thine  only  son,  that  in  blessing 
I  will  bless  thee  and  in  multiplying 
I  will  multiply  thy  seed  as  the  stars 
of  heaven  and  as  the  sand  upon  the 
sea  shore,  and  thy  .seed  shall  possess 
the  gate  of  his  enemies,  and  in  thee 
and  in  thy  seed  all  the  nations  of 
the  earth  shall  be  blessed."  What 
greater  promise  than  this  could 
come  to  a  man,  and  yet  it  came 
through  the  righteousness  of  Abra- 
ham through  the  spirit  of  obedience. 
It  is  a  very  great  lesson.  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  we  should  take  it  to 
heart.  We  should  cultivate  the 
spirit  of  obedience  in  our  hearts,  be 
willing  to  listen  to  the  voice  of  God, 
and  walk  by  the  counsels  of  his  ser- 
vants who  are  divinely  called. 

The  blessing-  that  was  put  upon 
Abraham  was  also  conferred  upon 
Isaac,  for  Isaac  as  a  boy  and  as  a 
man  exhibited  the  spirit  of  submis- 
sion and  obedience.  He  honored  his 
parents.  They  desired  him  to  go 
down  artiong  his  people  and  kindred 
for  a  wife  rather  than  marry  among 
strangers,  or  among  the  daughters 
of  the  Canaanites. 

Isaac  yielded  to  the  wish  of  his 
parents.  He  honored  them,  and  God 
honored  him,  and  put  upon  him  the 
blessing  of  Abraham. 

And  so  it  was  with  Jacob.  He 
was  willing  to  listen  to  the  voice  of 
his  parents,  and  went  down  among 
his  people  to  get  a  wife,  while  Esau 
seeing  that  it  displeased  his  parents 
went  straightway  among  strangers 
and  married  some  of  the  daughters 
of  Canaan.  Now,  in  the  one  case 
the  displeasure  of  the  Lord  was 
shown,  and  in  the  other  case  the 
blessing  followed,  because  the  bless- 
ings that  were  put  upon  Abraham 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAW  SON. 


35 


and  Isaac  were  also  put  upon  Jacob, 
and  thus,  brethren  and  sisters,  the 
names  of  those  great  patriarchs 
were  linked  together,  and  they  were 
called  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob. 
The  Lord  himself  has  greatly  hon- 
ored them  by  sometimes  saying,  "I 
am  the  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and 
Jacob."  Jacob  was  further  distin- 
guished by  a  change  in  his  name. 
The  Lord  said  to  him  upon  one  oc- 
casion, "Thy  name  shall  no  more  be 
called  Jacob  but  Israel,  for  as  a 
prince  hast  thou  power  with  God 
and  with  men,  and  hast  prevailed." 
So  the  name  of  Jacob  was  changed 
to  Israel,  and  the  children  of  Jacob 
after  that  were  called  the  children 
of  Israel,  and  the  blessings  of  Abra- 
ham, Isaac  and  Jacob  were  pro- 
nounced upon  their  posterity.  These 
blessings  were  to  be  realized  by 
them  through  their  righteousness, 
through  their  faith  and  faithfulness 
to  the  God  of  heaven.  So  the  bless- 
ings of  the  patriarchs  have  come 
down  to  us,  even  to  us  who  are  as- 
sembled in  this  great  building  here, 
for  we  are  of  the  posterity  of  Abra- 
ham, Isaac  and  Jacob. 

All  this  seems  wonderful  to  me, 
and  I  have  obtained  the  knowledge 
of  it,  by  a  study  of  the  scriptures. 
We  would  do  well  to  give  attention 
to  this  matter,  so  also  to  the  study 
of  the  New  Testament,  and  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  which  is  closely 
identified  and  connected  up  with  the 
Bible,  and  the  book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  containing  the  revela- 


tions of  God  to  his  prophet  and  to 
his  people  of  latter  times.  Oh,  what 
a  wonderful,  marvelous  book  is  the 
book  of  Covenants  !  And  then  there 
is  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  Is  it 
not  beyond  price,  embodying,  as  it 
does  the  writings  of  Abraham, 
Enoch  and  Moses?  We  ought  to 
familiarize  ourselves  with  the 
scriptures  that  have  been  given. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  sanc- 
tify to  our  good  these  great  books 
which  have  been  committed  into  our 
keeping ;  and  may  he  sanctify  to  our 
good  also,  the  counsels  of  the  living 
oracles,  the  teachings  of  the  ser- 
vants of  God  in  our  day.  Let  us  re- 
member them  and  let  us  receive 
their  words  and  honor  their  teach- 
ings, and  God  will  bless  us  and 
multiply  us  abundantly,  which  may 
he  grant,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

A  notice  of  the  performance  of 
"Elijah"  in  the  Tabernacle  at  5 
o'clock  tonight,  was  given  out. 

It  was  also  announced  that  the 
General  Priesthood  meeting  would 
convene  in  the  Tabernacle  at  7 
o'clock  tonight. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 
''We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a 
prophet." 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sat- 
urday morning  at  10  o'clock. 

President  Andrew  Kimball,  of  the 
St.  Joseph  stake,  Arizona,  pro- 
nounced the  benediction. 


SECOND  DAY. 


In  the  Tabernacle,  Saturday, 
April  6,  1918,  10  a.  m. 

The  assembly  was  called  to  order 
by  President  Joseph  F.  Smith. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  hymn :  "Come  let  us  anew  our 
journey  pursue." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  President 
Edward  H.  Snow,  of  the  St.  George 
stake  of  Zion. 

The  hymn,  "Guide  us,  O  thou 
great  Jehovah,"  was  sung  by  the 
choir  and  congregation. 

ELDER  GEORGE  A.  SMITH. 

Meditation  on  the  passino-  ,of  Elder 
Hyrum  M.  Smith — Love  of  the 
brethren — Gratitude  for  the  restora- 
tion of  the  gospel — Men  and  women 
prone  to  turn  away  from  righteous- 
ness and  listen  to  the  promptings  of 
the  evil  one  who  minimizes  sin  and 
urges  justification  for  committing 
just  a  little  sin — Illustrations — To 
preserve  men  from  Satan  and  his 
insidious  ways,  the  gospel  has  been 
restored — God  has  said,  "This  is  the 
path,  walk  ye  in  it" — Admonition  to 
the  Saints  to  do  their  duty — A 
prayer  for  the  leaders  and  people  of 
the  Church. 

I  crave  an  interest  in  your  faith 
and  prayers,  that  the  Lord  will  di- 
rect what  I  may  say,  that  it  may  be 
profitable  to  the  thousands  of  faith- 
ful Latter-day  Saints  who  are  as- 
sembled here  in  the  worship  of  the 
Lord.  My  heart  is  very  tender  this 
morning.  While  sitting  here  yes- 
terday and  today  I  thought  of  how 
little  we  know  of  what  awaits  us 
or  how  long  we  will  be  here  on 
earth.  But  for  a  knowledge  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  I  would  be 


filled  with  sorrow,  remembering  as 
I  do  that  one  of  our  beloved  breth- 
ren who  occupied  this  position  just 
six  months  ago  this  Saturday  morn- 
ing has  been  called  home.  It  seems 
but  a  few  days  since  Elder  Hyrum 
M.  Smith  stood  here  where  I  stand, 
about  this  hour  in  the  day,  and  de- 
livered to  us,  under  the  inspiration 
of  the  Spirit  of  God,  his  mes- 
sage to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  It  is 
true  that  his  voice  is  stilled  as  far 
as  we  are  concerned  here,  but  the 
teachings  that  he  advocated  on  that 
day  are  not  stilled,  and  no  doubt 
there  are  many  in  this  audience  who 
will  remember  the  very  topics  that 
he  touched  upon  on  that  occasion 
If  you  do  not  remember,  let  me  re- 
fresh your  minds  just  a  little.  He 
referred  to  the  fact  that  Solomon 
did  not  pray  for  riches,  did  not  pray 
for  honors,  but  he  prayed  for  an 
understanding  heart,  and  God  told 
him  that  because  he  had  prayed  for 
that  desirable  thing,  that  he  had  not 
only  given  to  him  an  understanding 
heart,  but  that  he  had  given  him,  in 
addition,  honor  and  riches,  and  that 
not  any  of  the  kings  of  his  time 
would  be  like  unto  him.  Another 
thing  Brother  Hyrum  referred  to 
was  the  teaching  of  Moses,  wherein, 
after  advising  the  people  and  ad- 
monishing them,  he  said,  "An.d 
teach  these  things  to  your  sons  and 
to  your  sons'  sons."  I  think  that 
is  a  splendid  precept  for  Israel  to 
remember  today,  that  we  explain  in 
kindness  and  love  the  gospel  of  our 
Lord,  not  only  to  our  sons,  but  to 
our  sons'  sons,  and  I  would  like  to 
add,    to    our    daughters,    to  our 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH. 


37 


neighbors'  sons  and  to  all  that 
it  is  possible  for  us  to  reach. 
Then  Elder  Hyrum  referred  to  the 
teaching's  of  the  greatest  of  all  men 
who  have  lived  upon  the  earth, 
Jesus  of  Nazareth,  wherein  he  said, 
"Not  everyone  that  saith  Lord, 
Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  kingdom 
of  heaven,  but  he  that  doeth  the 
will  of  my  Father  which  is  in 
heaven,"  and  ' he  also  taught  them 
"By  their  fruits  ye  shall  know 
them."  Now,  these  instructions 
have  been  handed  down  in  holy 
writ  and  were  repeated  by  our  es- 
teemed associate  just  six  months 
ago.  Do  you  suppose  that  the  teach- 
ings of  that  good  man  will  be  for- 
gotten by  Israel?  I  think  not,  and 
he  will  be  held  in  loving  remem- 
brance. We  honor  and  respect  him 
and  love  and  appreciate  him  for  the 
good  that  he  did  and  the  example 
that  he  set  us.  There  is  no  occa- 
sion for  us  to  mourn  his  calling 
away,  on  his  account,  for  his  work 
was  done,  and  our  Father  will  give 
to  him  the  things  that  he  has  la- 
bored for.  I  feel  this  morning  to 
say  that  the  splendid  work  he  per- 
formed could  not  have  been  done  so 
acceptably  but  for  the  noble  woman 
who  stood  by  his  side  and  who  as- 
sisted him  and  encouraged  him  and 
labored  with  him  and  kept  his  home 
and  taught  his  children.  But  for 
her,  the  work  that  he  performed 
could  not  have  been  accomplished ; 
and  I  thank  God  this  morning  that 
he  has  a  son  who  gives  promise  of 
walking  in  the  footsteps  of  his 
father,  that  he  has  children  who, 
because  of  their  love  and  esteem  for 
the  good  man  whose  work  is  done, 
will  delight  in  honoring  his  name. 
I  am  thankful,  I  say,  for  them,  and 
pray  God  to  bless  them,  that  the 
name  of  Hyrum  M.  Smith  may  re- 


main and  be  remembered  in  love 
among'  the  Latter-day  Saints  be- 
cause of  the  family  that  he  leaves 
to  represent  him  in  the  world. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
perhaps  you  will  understand  when  I 
tell  you  that  my  heart  is  tender  this 
morning.  I  love  my  brethren,  and 
I  am  grateful  for  the  privilege  of 
standing  at  the  side  of  men  such  as 
have  led  and  now  lead  this  Church. 
I  am  grateful  for  my  membership 
in  this  organization,  and  thankful 
for  your  companionship,  as  I  travel 
among  you  in  the  stakes  and  wards 
of  Zion.  God  bless  you,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  who  minister  to  us 
who  are  ,so  much  of  the  time  absent 
from  our  homes. 

Yesterday,  as  our  beloved  Presi- 
dent began  to  address  us,  my  heart 
was  touched.  I  realized  how  he 
was  suffering  the  weaknesses  that 
are  natural  to  men  at  this  time  of 
life,  and  as  he  continued  his  re- 
marks I  believe  you,  with  me, 
offered  a  prayer  that  God  would 
strengthen  him  and  make  him  equal 
to  the  duty  of  presiding  over  this 
conference,  and  that  he  would  feel 
no  bad  effects  from  that  long  and 
beautiful  address  ;  and  this  morning 
he  is  with  us,  and  I  am  grateful  he 
says  that  he  feels  much  better  than 
he  did  yesterday. 

This  is  our  Father's  work  that 
has  brought  us  together  here  today. 
While  this  world  is  in  confusion, 
here  under  the  .shades  of  this  great 
dome  we  have  met  together  to  wor- 
ship God  and  to  honor  him  and  to 
listen  to  the  whisperings  of  his 
Spirit  made  manifest  through  those 
who  may  be  called  to  address  us. 
We  are  here  not  with  doubt  in  our 
minds  that  there  is  a  God  in  heav- 
en, we  know  that  there  is,  and  we 
know,  as  we  know  that  we  live,  that 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


this  work  with  which  we  are  iden- 
tified is  our  Father's  work ;  he  be- 
gan it  and  he  sent  his  only  begotten 
Son  into  the  world  to  prepare  the 
way,  and  that  in  this  latter  day  he 
called  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
and  taught  him,  as  a  kind  and  lov- 
ing father  teaches  a  choice  and  fav- 
ored son,  the  things  that  touch  our 
hearts  and  that  have  inspired  in  us 
a  desire  to  do  our  best.  God  lives, 
and  his  hand  is  over  this  world,  and 
the  conditions  that  confront  us  to- 
day will  result  in  repentance  and 
softening  of  the  hearts  of  his  chil- 
dren, and  many  will  turn  from  the 
error  of  their  ways  and  forsake 
evil  and  desire  to  know  what  he 
would  have  them  do.  As  I  see  men 
and  women  everywhere  groping  for 
the  wall,  oh,  how  grateful  am  I  that 
those  who  were  my  ancestors  re- 
ceived this  gospel  of  our  Lord, 
knew  the  voice  of  the  good  Shep- 
herd and  followed  it,  and  that  my 
heritage  has  been  to  be  reared 
among  a  people  better  than  whom 
there  are  not  in  the  world  today. 
All  these  things  soften  my  feelings 
and  mellow  my  heart  and  I  am 
grateful  to  the  Lord  this  morning 
for  his  mercies.  You  know  the  peo- 
ple of  the  world,  our  brethren  and 
sisters,  many  of  them  have  been  de- 
ceived by  the  cunning  of  the  ad- 
versary, and  they  are  led  here  and 
there  and  their  time  is  wasted, 
while  they  live  upon  the  earth,  that 
might  be  profitably  spent,  not  only 
to  their  own  benefit,  but  to  the  ben- 
efit of  their  fellows,  if  they  but  un- 
derstood and  lived  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  The  adversary  does 
not  take  them  forcefully  and  pre- 
vent them  understanding  the  truth, 
but  in  an  insidious  and  underhand 
way  he  whispers  to  them  to  do  this 
thing  and  that.  He  poisons  their 
minds  against  the  things  that  are 


true.  He  makes  unpopular  those 
tilings  that  are  desirable  to  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  and  then,  because  of 
the  habit  of  men  and  women  to  fol- 
low the  fashion  and  custom  of  the 
world  and  listen  to  the  sophistry  of 
those  who  are  prominent,  he  is  able 
to  lead  them  along  a  pathway  that 
prevents  them  taking  avantage  of 
life  and  gaining  the  object  of  their 
creation  in  the  world.  It  is  not  only 
now  that  this  is  the  case,  but  it  has 
been  so  from  the  beginning.  When 
Abel  was  out  with  his  flocks,  and 
Irs  brother  Cain  saw  that  he  was 
favored  of  the  Lord  because  he  did 
right,  the  adversary  whispered  to 
Cain,  "You  can  just  as  well  have 
these  flocks,  nobody  will  know  if 
you  slay  your  brother,"  and  he  took 
his  life.  And  what  did  he  gain? 
He  didn't  gain  anything,  but  he  lost 
the  blessing  of  his  heavenly  Father. 
He  took  that  which  he  could  not 
give  and  became  a  murderer  and 
from  henceforth  his  name  is  known 
in  the  earth  as  one  who  had  depart- 
ed from  the  right  and  had  com- 
mitted an  awful  crime. 

So  it  has  been  all  the  way  down 
from  that  day  until  now.  When 
the  Lord  sent  Noah  among  the  chil- 
dren of  men  to  warn  them  and  to 
teach  them  and  to  encourage  them 
to  works  of  righteousness,  they 
turned  away  from  him,  they  didn't 
believe  he  was  a  prophet  of  God. 
The  adversary  whispered  in  their 
ears,  "Why,  this  man  is  only  an  or- 
dinary man,  he  has  no  right  to  speak 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  surely  you 
will  pay  no  attention  to  him,"  and 
his  mission  was  made  unpopular  by 
the  cunning  of  the  adversary.  Men 
and  women  in  their  sins  continued 
sinful  and  failed  to  listen  to  the 
warning  voice  of  a  prophet  of  God, 
and  the  result  was  that  the  Lord 
could  do  nothing  with  them  until 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH. 


39 


they  were  repentant.  He  saw  the 
futility  of  working  with  them  be- 
cause they  were  wilfully  in  the 
hands  of  the  adversary,  and  so  he 
covered  the  earth  with  a  great  flood, 
gathering-  just  a  little  handful  of 
people  to  re-people  the  earth,  be- 
cause it  was  necessary  that  good 
men  and  good  women  should  trans- 
mit to  posterity  the  virtues  that  they 
inherited  when  they  were  created  in 
the  spirit  world.  And  so  it  has  ever 
been.  In  the  time  of  the  Savior  the 
adversary  whispered  to  those  peo- 
ple, he  is  not  the  Son  of  God,  surely 
you  will  not  accept  him,  he  is  just 
an  ordinary  man,  he  is  only  the  son 
of  Mary  and  Joseph  and  he  is  not 
any  more  the  Son  of  God  than  you 
are,  and  the  people  listened  to  that 
insidious,  wicked  one  and  crucified 
the  Redeemer  of  mankind.  The  con- 
dition of  the  world  today  is  pre- 
dicted in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the 
same  thing  exactly  that  I  have  just 
referred  to.  When  Nephi  was 
teaching  the  people  and  trying  to 
show  them  the  necessity  of  living 
near  to  the  Lord,  not  to  surrender 
to  the  promptings  of  evil,  teaching 
them  the  necessity  of  keeping"  all 
the  commandments  of  God,  point- 
ing out  to  them  that  the  thing  that 
encouraged  good  always  came  from 
our  heavenly  Father,  and  that  any- 
thing that  enticed  them  to  evil  came 
from  the  adversary  and  they  were 
not  safe  the  moment  they  went  into 
the  .devil's  territory.  This  is  what 
he  says,  referring  to  the  time  when 
the  Book  of  Mormon  should  be 
brought  forth,  when  the  record 
should  be  taken  out  among  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  when  the  things  that 
were  in  the  book  that  were  of  great 
worth  to  the  children  of  men  should 
begin  to  be  made  known,  and  he 
speaks  very  plainly  in  this  the  28th 
chapter  of  II  Nephi : 


"For  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  that 
day  that  the  churches  which  are  built 
up,  and  not  unto  the  Lord,  when  the 
one  shall  say  unto  the  other,  Behold,  I 
am  the  Lord's,  and  the  other  shall  say, 
I  am  the  Lord's.  And  thus  shall 
everyone  say  that  hath  built  up 
churches,  and  not  unto  the  Lord." 

Now,  the  Prophet  Nephi,  hun- 
dreds of  years  ago,  saw  what  would 
occur,  that  the  people  were  to  con- 
tend with  one  another  and  deny 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  and 
the  Holy  One  of  Israel,  and  were 
to  teach  for  doctrine  the  command- 
ments of  men.  An  influence  is  in 
the  world  today  trying  to  liiake  peo- 
ple believe  that  by  their  own  intelli- 
gence and  by  their  own  power  they 
can  gain  eternal  life.  Let  me  con- 
tinue to  read  from  Nephi : 

"And  there  shall  also  be  many  which 
shall  say,  Eat,  drink  and  be  merry, 
nevertheless  fear  God,  he  will  justify 
in  committing  a  little  sin." 

I  want  you  to  note  that :  "He  will 
justify  in  committing  a  little  sin." 
That  cunning  adversary  knowing 
that  if  he  could  only  get  a  man  or 
woman  to  do  a  little  wrong,  that 
far  they  had  gone  into  his  territory, 
that  far  they  were  in  his  power. 

"Nevertheless,  fear  God,  he  will  jus- 
tify in  committing  a  little  sin,  yea,  lie 
a  little,  take  the  advantag-e  of  one  be- 
cause of  his  words,  dig  a  pit  for  thy 
neighbor;  there  is  no  harm  in  this. 
And  do  all  these  things,  for  tomorrow 
we  die;  and  if  it  so  be  that  we  are 
guilty,  God  will  beat  us  with  a  few 
stripes,  and  at  last  we  shall  be  saved 
in  the  Kingdom  of  God." 

Isn't  that  just  exactly  what  the 
devil  says  to  the  children  of  men 
today  as  plainly  as  it  is  written 
here?  Oh,  commit  a  little  sin,  that 
won't  'do  any  harm,  lie  a  little,  that 
won't  do  any  particular  damage,  the* 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Lord  will  forgive  that  and  you  will 
only  be  beaten  with  a  few  stripes 
and  at  last  you  shall  be  saved  in  the 
kingdom  of  God.  That  is  what  he 
says  to  the  man  or  the  woman  who 
has  been  taught  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom when  he  says,  oh,  drink  a  little 
tea,  that  won't  hurt  you  ;  use  a  little 
tobacco,  that  won't  make  any  dif- 
ference :  a  little  liquor  won't  do  any 
harm.  These  are  little  things ;  he  al- 
ways does  it  a  little  at  a  time,  not 
all  at  once.  That  is  what  I  would 
like  us  to  remember,  my  brethern, 
this  morning.  It  is  these  insignifi- 
cant insidious  whisperings  that  be- 
tray mankind  and  that  place  us  in 
the  power  of  the  devil.  I  want  to 
say  to  you,  in  my  judgment,  that 
the  use  of  tobacco,  a  little  thing  as 
it  seems  to  some  men,  has  been  the 
means  of  destroying-  their  spiritual 
life,  has  been  the  means  of  driving 
from  them  the  companionship  of  the 
Spirit  of  our  Father,  has  alienated 
them  from  the  society  of  good  men 
and  women,  and  has  brought  upon 
them  the  disregard  and  reproach  of 
the  children  that  have  been  born  to 
them,  and  yet  the  devil  will  say  to 
a  man.  Oh,  it's  only  a  little  thing! 
And  Nephi  says  further : 

"And  others  will  he  pacify  and  lull 
them  away  into  carnal  security,  that 
they  will  say.  All  is  well  in  Zion;  yea 
Zion  prospereth,  all  is  well;  and  thus 
the  d  evil  cheateth  their  souls." 

Now,  I  want  you  to  note  that : 
"And  thus  the  devil  cheateth  their 
souls  and  leadeth  them  away  care- 
fully -down  to  hell."  And  that  is 
the  way  he  does  it,  that's  exactly 
the  way  he  does  it.  He  does  not 
come  and  grab  you  bodily  and  take 
you  into  his  territory,  but  he  whis- 
pers, "Do  this  little  evil,"  and  when 
he  succeeds  in  that,  another  little 
evil  and  another,  and,  to  use  the  ex- 


pression quoted,  "He  cheateth  their 
souls."  That's  what  he  does.  He 
makes  you  believe  that  you  are 
gaining  something  when  you  are 
losing.  So  it  is  every  time  we  fail 
to  observe  a  law  of  God  or  keep  a 
commandment,  we  are  being  cheat- 
ed, because  there  is  no  gain  in  this 
world  or  in  the  world  to  come  but 
by  obedience  to  the  law  of  our 
heavenly  Father.  Then  again,  that 
peculiar  suggestion,  "And  he  lead- 
eth them  carefully  away  .down  to 
hell"  is  significant,  that  is  his 
method.  Men  and  women  in  the 
world  today  are  subject  to  that  in- 
fluence, and  they  are  being  drawn 
here  and  there,  and  that  whispering 
is  going  on  and  they  do  not  under- 
stand what  the  Lord  desires  them  to 
do,  but  they  continue  in  the  territory 
of  the  evil  one,  subject  to  his  power 
where  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  will 
not  go.    He  says  further : 

"And  behold,  others  he  flattereth 
away,  and  telleth  them  there  is  no 
hell." 

Isn't  that  what  the  world  is  taught 
today?  These  higher  critics,  these 
agnostics,  who  do  not  believe  in 
God,  man,  nor  the  devil,  as  far  as 
that  is  concerned,  except  what  they 
see.  Are  they  not  saying,  "There  is 
no  hell  ?"  And  Nephi  here  tells  us 
it  is  the  devil  that  teaches  them 
that. 

"And  behold,  others  he  flattereth 
away,  and  telleth  them  there  is  ,no 
hell;  and  he  saith  unto  them,  I  am  no 
devil,  for  there  is  none;  and  thus  he 
whispereth  in  their  ears,  until  he 
Rrasps  them  with  his  awful  chains, 
from  whence  there  is  no  deliverance." 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  is  the  condition  of  the  workl 
today.  Nephi  could  not  have  stated 
it  plainer  if  he  had  been  right  here 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH. 


41 


in  the  world  now.  And  the  ad- 
versary is  at  work,  and  because  our 
heavenly  Father  desired  to  preserve 
his  children  from  trie  evil  of  that 
teaching  and  of  that  belief  he  sent 
the  boy  prophet,  Joseph  Smith,  into 
the  world,  commissioned  him  with 
Mi  vine  authority,  organized  'his 
Church,  and  began  again  to  teach 
the  truth  to  the  children  of  men, 
that  they  might  be  led  from  the 
error  of  their  ways.  That  mission 
(•'evolves  upon  you.  You  have  re- 
ceived the  'Holy  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood ,  most  of  you;  you  have  been 
commissioned  by  divine  authority-, 
and  the  Lord  will  hold  us — I  myself 
am  with  you  in  that,  I  realize — will 
hold  all  men  who  hold  the  Mel- 
chizedek Priesthood  in  this  Church 
responsible  for  the  treatment  of  that 
priesthood  and  for  the  care  with 
wh:ch  we  exercise  it  among  the 
children  of  men.  Now,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  was  there  ever  a  time 
in  the  history  of  the  world  when 
there  was  greater  need  for  men  and 
women  to  serve  the  Lord  and  keep 
his  commandments?  Look  at  the 
world  today ;  millions  of  men  ar- 
rayed against  each  other  striving  to 
destroy  life.  Why?  Because  the 
adversary  is  whispering  to  them, 
"This  is  the  thing  to  do."  I  want 
to  tell  you  that  this  war  will  not 
cease  and  the  strife  in  this  world 
will  not  end  until  the  children  of 
men  repent  of  their  sins  and  turn 
to  God  and  serve  him  and  keep  his 
commandments  ;  and  in  the  words 
of  Patrick  Henry,  "Men  may  cry 
peace,  peace,  but  there  is  not  peace" 
until  the  children  of  men  conform 
their  lives  to  the  teachings  of  the 
Father  of  us  all,  who  gave  us  our 
being  and  who  placed  within  our 
reach  wholesome  advice  and  coun- 
sel from  the  creation  until  now,  and 


has  said  to  us,  "This  is  the  path, 
walk  ye  in  it." 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
surely  we  will  do  our  duty  as  elders 
in  Israel  and  as  members  of  the 
fold  of  Christ.  Our  Father  in 
heaven  has  given  us  the  knowledge, 
has  given  us  the  authority,  has 
called  us  together  in  the  valleys  of 
these  grand  mountains,  and  has 
given  us  shepherds  after  his  own 
heart.  Let  us  live  as  we  ought  to 
live,  let  us  honor  each  other  as  we 
ought  to  do,  let  us  sustain  this  Gov- 
ernment that  has  been  so  generous 
to  us  as  we  ought  to  sustain  it ;  and 
if  we  are  not  required  to  give  of  our 
family,  if  we  have  not  sons  to  send, 
then  let  us  give  part  of  our  sub- 
stance to  comfort  the  sons  of  other 
men  and  to  make  it  possible  for  ■ 
liberty  to  be  in  the  world. 

I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  our 
Father  may  remain  with  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  they  will  if  we  will 
be  faithful.  I  pray  that  our  Father 
will  bless  the  man  who  presides  over 
this  Church,  that  he  will  rebuke  the 
weaknesses  that  the  flesh  is  heir  to 
and  that  have  taken  possession  of 
him,  that  he  will  make  him  well  and 
strong  and  continue  to  him  the  joy 
and  the  satisfaction  that  he  has  had 
in  ministering  to  us,  all  these  years. 
I  pray  that  his  counselors  may  be 
similarly  remembered  and  that 
they  may  rejoice  together  to  pre-- 
side  over  us  and  direct  us  as  long 
as  they  desire  to  remain  with  us. 
And  may  peace  and  comfort  and 
satisfaction  be  upon  all  the  hosts  of 
Israel  because  of  their  faith  and 
devotion,  and  may  we  repent  of  our 
sins  that  the  Lord  may  minister  to 
us  in  a  greater  measure  in  the  fu- 
ture than  in  the  past ;  that  our  sons 
and  daughters,  growing  up  under 
our  influence,  may  become  a  valiant 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


army  prepared,  by  reason  of  their 
faith  and  knowledge,  of  the  power 
of  God,  to  carry  his  message  to  the 
nations  of  the  earth  and  promulgate 
it  where  it  has  not  been  heard  be- 
fore, and  establish  it  to  the  honor 
and  glory  of  God,  and  to  the  salva- 
tion of  the  children  of  men,  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION. 

(President   of   the    Central  States 
Mission) 

I  esteem  it  a  great  privilege,  my 
brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  to 
have  the  honor  of  attending  this 
conference.  It  looked  a  few  days 
ago  as  if  I  should  not  be  able  to  be 
here,  but  through  the  prayers  of 
faith,  I  have  been  permitted  to  at- 
tend thus  far.  I  have  listened  with 
interest  to  the  remarks  of  my 
brethren  who  have  preceded  me, 
and  was  greatly  impressed  by  the 
exhortation  and  teaching  of  Pres- 
ident Smith  that  men  and  women 
should  provide  for  themselves  and 
produce  many  things  that  they  need 
so  that  they  will  not  have  to  buy 
them ;  also  that  they  should  patron- 
ize home  industries. 

In  the  mission  field  where  I  labor 
we  encourage  the  people  to  grow 
the  crops  that  are  necessary  to  pro- 
duce a  living.  Our  people  in  the 
south  usually  grow  cotton ;  it  is  the 
cash  crop.  They  have  been  there 
for  many  years  as  renters,  and  as 
their  landlords  have  generally  pre- 
scribed the  crop  they  are  to  raise, 
they  have  been  forced  to  raise  cot- 
ton, using  all  the  money  they  could 
get  out  of  that  cotton  to  buy  food- 
stuffs for  their  families  and  forage 
for  their  animals,  paying  high 
prices  for  it,  when  they  might  have 


produced  these  things  themselves. 
But  while  this  custom  in  the  past 
has  brought    great    hardships  on 
them  it  has  been  a  great  labor  to 
induce  them  to  change  their  meth- 
od of  farming.    However,  in  the 
past    year,     notwithstanding  the 
great  drought  in  the  south,  hun- 
dreds of  people  there  raised  their 
own  forage,  and  have  not  had  to 
buy  the  hay  that  has  cost  so  much 
money  and   kept   them   so  poor. 
They  have  yielded  to  the  law  of 
obedience  and  they  have  found  that 
therein  lies  the  only  safety.  That 
has  always  been  my  belief.    I  have 
learned  in  my  experience  that  to 
obey  is  better  than  sacrifice,  and  to 
hearken  than  the  fat  of  rams,  i 
also  believe  that  the  scriptures  the 
Lord  has  revealed  unto  us  in  this 
dispensation  are  more  essential  for 
us  to  become  acquainted  with  than 
anything  we  may  think  of  in  tem- 
poral ways.    I  believe  that  men  and 
women   ought   to   prepare  them- 
selves—that they  ought  to  know 
something    about   the    gospel  of 
Christ,  and  why  they  are  members 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  or  "Mormons," 
as  we  are  commonly  called  in  the 
world.  We  ought  to  take  advantage 
of  opportunities  that  are  offered  us 
from  time  to  time  to  learn  more  of 
the  gospel  and  to  become  acquaint- 
ed with  the  truths  contained  there- 
in.   It  is  just  as  necessary  for  us 
to  learn  the  words  of  life  that  will 
bring  us  spiritual  glory  and  exalta- 
tion as  it  is  to  labor  hard  for  tem- 
poral things.    We  need  the  tem- 
poral things  of  life  as  taught  in 
this  Church,  but  we  ought  not  to 
let  the  spiritual  side  of  life  go  un- 
developed.   I  believe  that  men  and 
women  can  be  led  and  are  led  too 
much  into  the  ways  of  money-mak- 
ing and  accumulating  of  means,  to 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 


43 


the  expense,  often,  of  their  own 
spiritual  welfare. 

We  have  labored  with  great  in- 
terest in  the  mission  field  in  the 
Central  States,  and  have  seen  men 
and  women  join  the  Church  and 
grow  in  a  knowledge  of  the  Lord 
until  they  have  become  happy  and 
contented  in  their  lives.  Many  own 
their  homes,  as  a  result  of  the  teach- 
ings of  the  gospel  of  Christ.  1 
do  not  believe,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  a  man  or  woman  can  ever 
succeed  in  this  world  without  a 
knowledge  of  the  gospel  as  well  as 
they  can  with  it.  There  is  no  real 
happiness,  and  there  is  no  pleasure, 
there  is  no  unity,  aside  from  it,  and 
,as  soon  as  men  and  women  hear  of 
the  gospel,  the  majority  of  them 
are  inclined  to  listen,  although  they 
do  not  always  obey  it. 

I  believe  that  men  ought  to  be- 
come acquainted  with  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  a  book  which  in  itself  is 
a  direct  testimony  that  this  Church 
has  something  that  no  "other  church 
in  the  world  possesses.  If  the  Book 
of  Mormon  came  into  the  hands  of 
the  "Mormon"  people  through  their 
own  ingenuity,  then  men  and  wom- 
en ought  to  investigate  it  and  prove 
it.  If  they  prove  that  it  did  not, 
then  they  must  acknowledge  that 
it  is  inspired  and  came  from  God, 
for  it  is  a  direct  evidence  that  the 
Lord  has  spoken  in  this  dispensa- 
tion. No  man  can  read  the  Book  of 
Mormon  with  a  desire  to  learn  the 
truth  and  deny  the  things  that  are 
in  it.  No  man  can  read  the  Book  of 
Mormon  with  a  desire  to  know  the 
truth  and  be  honest  in  his  heart 
without  becoming  convinced  that  it 
is  real  and  that  it  does  come  from 
God.  Joseph  Smith  said  that  he 
received  it  from  an  angel  and  that 
he  translated  the  records  into  this 
present  book  by  the  gift  and  power 


of  God.  I  know  of  no  greater  evi- 
dence that  the  Lord  has  revealed 
himself  in  this  dispensation  or  in 
the  latter  days  than  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  You  may  take  any  other 
church,  let  them  offer  what  they 
have  to  prove  their  divinity,  and 
there  is  nothing  to  be  found  that 
will  compare  with  this  great  rec- 
ord. It  was  given  to  men  in  the 
earth  to  be  distributed  by  the  thou- 
sands, for  men  and  women  to  read. 
It  could  never  have  been  produced 
by  man.  Nearly  a  century  has 
passed  since  this  book  came  forth, 
and  there  have  never  been  men  nor 
a  set  of  men  with  all  their  learn- 
ing and  with  all  their  power,  accu- 
mulated through  knowledge  re- 
ceived in  this  world,  who  have  been 
able  to  produce  or  write  one  page 
like  unto  it.  It  is  the  word  of  God 
handed  down  to  us  in  this  dispen- 
sation, by  which  we  may  know  that 
he  does  live,  and  that  he  reveals 
himself,  that  he  has  the  power  to 
come  and  to  go  as  he  chooses,  and 
that  he  has  a  well-defined  way  and 
plan  by  which  he  works.  The  read- 
ing of  the  Book  of  Mormon  gives 
unto  men  and  unto  women  a  testi- 
mony that  he  is  and  that  he  really 
does  visit  the  children  of  men  in 
the  earth  when  he  sees  and  finds 
the  occasion  to  do  so.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  stated  as  a  boy  that 
he  received  this  book  from  an  an- 
gel, and  that  the  Father  and  the 
Son  had  visited  him.  Men  may 
criticize  the  .statement ;  men  may 
say  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  dream- 
er. My  brethren  and  sisters,  here 
is  his  work  (not  entirely  all,  for  he 
left  many,  many  records),  here  is 
a  book  '.that  has  lived  all  thesie 
years,  and  no  man  has  ever  been 
able  to  successfully  attack  the 
words  and  the  principles  that  are 
contained  therein,  some  of  the  most 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


beautiful  that  a  man  could  read. 
The  honest  in  heart  cannot  help  but 
be  touched,  and  they  will  surely 
change  their  method  of  thinking 
and  of  believing. 

If  a  man  representing  himself  as 
a  minister  of  some  church  should 
come  to  one  of  us  and  say,  "Here, 
I  desire  you  to  take  this  book  and 
read  it,  it  represents  our  church, 
and  I  tell  you  that  it  is  the  truth, 
and  if  you  will  pray  unto  the  Lord 
for  a  knowledge  of  its  truth  you 
will  have  a  witness  from  God  that 
it  is  true,"  I  want  to  tell  you  that 
most  of  us  would  take  such  a  book 
and  read  it,  and  it  would  stand  the 
test  if  it  was  the  truth.  Now,  the 
Book  of  Mormon  contains  such  a 
promise,  and  such  a  testimony,  and 
when  this  testimony  goes  to » any 
man,  or  when  I  deliver  this  book 
unto  a  man  and  point  out  to  him 
the  scripture  and  ask  him  to  read 
so  that  he  may  know  whether  it  is 
of  God,  or  whether  it  is  of  man, 
then  I  believe  that  I  have  done  my 
part,  and  if  he  is  honest  in  his  at- 
tempt to  learn  the  truth  and  in  his 
conviction,  the  Lord  will  manifest 
the  truth  of  it  unto  him  by  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  I  will 
read  a  few  verses  from  the  tenth 
chapter  of  Moroni : 

Behold  I  would  exhort  you  that 
when  ye  shall  read  these  things,  if  it 
be  wisdom  in  God  that  ye  should 
read  them,  that  ye  would  remember 
how  merciful  the  Lord  hath  been  unto 
the  children  of  men,  from  the  crea- 
tion of  Adam,  even  down  until  the 
time  that  ye  shall  receive  these 
things,  and  ponder  it  in  your  hearts. 

And  when  ye  shall  receive  these 
things,  I  would  exhort  you  that  ye 
would  ask  God,  the  Eternal  Father, 
in  the  name  of  Christ,  if  these  things 
are  not  true;  and  if  ye  shall  ask  with 
a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent,  hav- 
ing faith  in  Christ,  he  will  manifest 


the  truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power 
of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

I  want  to  tell-  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  that  is  about  all 
the  Lord  owes  a  man  if  he  is  a 
doubter.    When  he  gives  one  of  his 
sons  or  one  of   his   daughters  a 
chance  to  read  his  word  which  will 
bring  them  unto  him  and  unto  eter- 
'nal  life,  with  such  a  statement  as 
that,  if  they  will  humble  themselves, 
the  spirit  of  humility  will  come  into 
their  hearts  and  pride  and  haugh- 
tiness will  be  banished ;  then  they 
will  know  the  truth,  or  they  will 
have  been  sufficiently  warned.  He 
says  further:     "Behold  the  spirit 
of  Christ  is  given  unto  every  man." 
All  men  have  the  spirit  of  Christ 
given  unto  them,  when  they  come 
into  the  world,  for  they  are  the  chil- 
dren of  God,  God's  sons  or  daugh- 
ters, and  they  receive  his  spirit, 
"that  they  may  know  good  from 
evil;  wherefore,  I  shew  unto  you 
the  way  to  judge,"  says  Moroni, 
"for  everything  which   inviteth  to 
to  good  and  to  persuade  to  believe 
in  Christ,  is  sent  forth  by  the  power 
and  gift  of  Christ;  wherefore  ye 
may  know  with  a  perfect  knowl- 
edge it  is  of  God.    But  whatsoever 
thing  persuadeth  men  to  do  evil, 
and  believe  not  in  Christ,  and  deny 
him,  and  serve  not  God,  then  ye 
may  know  with  a  perfect  knowl- 
edge it  is  of  the  devil,  for  afttr  this 
manner  doth  the  devil  work,  for  he 
persuadeth  no  man  to  do  good,  no, 
not  one;  neither  doth  his  angels; 
neither  do  they  who  subject  them- 
selves unto  him"  (  Moro.  1:16  17). 

Now,  the  Book  of  Mormon  came 
into  the  world  as  a  testimony  unto 
all  peoples,  as  a  testimony  for  or 
against  them,  that  they  would  be 
persuaded  by  the  power  and  Spirit 
of  God  to  know  right  from  wrong, 


ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON 


45 


to  know  the  truth  and  to  know 
error,  and  it  would  be  there  as  a 
witness  unto  them  that  God  has 
spoken  in  these  the  last  days.  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  ought  to  become 
more  acquainted  with  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  They  ought  to  become 
acquainted  with  the  principles  that 
are  taught  therein.  I  believe  that 
it  ought  to  be  read  more  in  the 
home.  I  believe  that  it  ought  to  be 
taught  in  the.  schools,  for  children 
who  have  been  brought  up  in  this 
Church  are  much  stronger  if  they 
have  the  privilege  of  reading  or 
having  these  truths  taught  unto 
them. 

I  endorse  with  all  my  heart,  the 
Church  schools  of  this  Church.  I 
believe  that  they  were  inspired  of 
the  Lord,  and  that  the  Lord  in- 
spired the  leaders  of  this  Church 
to  continue  them,  that  the  children 
of  men  growing  up  in  this  land 
may  be  brought  unto  a  knowledge 
of  their  Redeemer,  that  they  may 
know  good  from  evil  and  that  they 
may  know  the  source  from  which 
good  comes  and  the  source  from 
which  evil  comes. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  Latter- 
day  Israel.  I  pray  the  Lord  to 
bless  the  leaders  of  this  Church 
and  to  prolong  the  life  of  President 
Smith  and  his  counselors,  men  who 
have  grown  old  in  experience  that 
cannot  be  gained  in  a  day.  I  be- 
lieve that  as  a  body  of  men  and 
women  gathered  together  here,  our 
hearts  should  ascend  in  prayer  un- 
to the  Father  for  the  health  of 
these  men,  that  they  might  be  left 
among  us ;  for  that  experienced 
men  are  needed  for  counsel  and  for 
knowledge  and  wisdom  has  always 
been  shown  in  the  history  of  the 
world.  I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord,  may  enter  into  the  hearts 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  that  we 


may  follow  the  instructions  of  the 
leaders  of  this  Church,  that  we  may 
stand  together  as  one,  and  when  we 
do  that,  we  stand  behind  our  great 
Nation  in  anything  that  it  calls  us 
to  do,  at  home  or  abroad.  We  ac- 
cept these  calls  feeling  that  it  is 
our  duty;  we  enjoy  them  because 
it  is  a  pleasure  to  do  our  duty,  and 
if  we  look  upon  them  in  the  right 
way  and  live  according  to  the  com- 
mandments God  has  given  us,  we 
will  be  saved  in  the  eternal  king- 
dom of  the  Lamb,  and  we  will  be 
permitted  to  come  forth  in  the 
morning  of  the  first  resurrection, 
live  with  our  Father  in  heaven,  and 
be  regarded  as  men  and  women 
who  have  kept  the  faith  and  who 
have  believed  the  testimony  of  hum- 
ble men.  This  is,  I  am  sure,  the 
desire  of  all,  and  I  ask  that  this 
may  be  our  happy  lot,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON. 

(President  of  the  California  Mission.) 

I  solicit  your  prayers  of  faith  in 
my  behalf,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
for  if  there  is  any  one  time  in  my 
life  when  I  feel  my  weakness  it  is 
when  addressing  a  congregation  of 
the  Saints  of  Israel,  especially  if 
this  be  in  the  presence  of  our  lead- 
ers— men  who  have  ripened  in  judg- 
ment and  wisdom  and  rich  experi- 
ence. I  am  not  fearful  of  the  world. 
I  know  we  have  something  new  to 
present  to  them.  But  when  I  come 
to  you,  I  feel  that  you  know  better 
than  I  the  principles  of  life  and  sal- 
vation, and  that  I  should  sit  at  your 
feet  and  be  taught,  rather  than  as- 
sume the  position  of  a  teacher. 

I  bring  to  you  good  greetings 
from  the  mission  field  and  from 
your  sons,  your  boys  who  are  in  the 


46  •  GENERAL  C 

cantonments  of  the  State  of  Cali- 
fornia. I  know  how  your  hearts  go 
out  to  the  boys  and  girls  who  are 
ambassadors  of  truth,  how  you  pray 
for  them,  how  you  labor  to  maintain 
them,  how  your  hopes  are  centered 
in  them,  and  you  are  looking  for 
their  return  ere  long,  laden  with  the 
sheaves  of  a  golden  harvest  of  the 
souls  of  men.  I  know,  too,  that 
your  concern  for  these  is  not  so 
great  as  it  is  for  the  boys  who  have 
gone  as  soldiers  not  only  of  the 
Cross  but  of  our  Country's  flag. 
You  fear  the  smile  of  the  wanton, 
the  allurements  of  the  world,  the 
enticement  of  vice  and  sin,  more 
than  you  do  the  deadly  missiles  of 
the  enemy.  I  am  glad  to  say  that 
so  far  as  we  have  been  able,  with 
good  men  and  true,  to  conserve  the 
virtue  and  the  belief  of  your  boys  in 
the  camps,  that  we  have  done  a 
good  part.  They  have  reciprocated 
it ;  they  have  attended  our  gather- 
ings ;  they  have  partaken  of  the  sac- 
rament, renewing  again  their  fealty 
to  the  Cross.  They  have  borne  wit- 
ness of  the  virtue  of  'their  fathers 
and  mothers,  and  their  desire  to 
keep  unspotted  of  the  world,  and 
many  times  when  they  have  had  the 
conduct  of  our  services  there  has 
never  been  a  dry  eye  in  the  assem- 
bly. 

I  want  to  read  to  you  just  a  little 
from  the  scripture,  for  I  believe 
that  with  me  you  can  appreciate  it 
more  than  you  ever  did  before,  you 
who  have  given  your  sons  to  the 
service  of  our  country : 

And  as  Moses  lifted  up  the  serpent 
in  the  wilderness,  even  so  must  the 
Son  of  man  be  lifted  up,  that  whoso- 
ever believeth  in  him  should  not  per- 
ish but  have  eternal  life,  for  God  so 
loved  the  world  that  he  gave  his  only 
begotten  Son,  that  whosoever  believ- 
eth in  him  should  not  perish  but  have 


everlasting  life;  for  God  sent  not  his 
Son  into  the  world  to  condemn  the 
world,  but  that  the  world  through  him 
might  be  saved. 

I  know  that  it  is  written  by  John 
and  Paul  that  Christ  was  offered 
as  a  propitiation  for  our  sins.  I 
take  it,  if  we  had  the  original  text 
we  would  learn  that  it  was  not  in 
the  sense  of  appeasing  the  anger  of 
God  that  he  became  a  propitiatory 
gift.  That  the  Lord  may  have 
been,  and  has  been,  grieved 
and  sometimes  angry  with  his 
stubborn  people,  I  grant  you, 
but  I  have  never  felt  that  God 
had  to  be  "bought  off,"  if  you  will 
allow  the  expression,  through  the 
death  of  his  Son,  from  visiting 
upon  us  condign  punishment.  No. 
As  I  understand  it,  he  gave  us  his 
best  loved  gift,  the  First  Born 
among'  many  brethren  in  the  spirit 
world,  the  only  begotten  of  God  in 
the  flesh,  that  we  might  know  him 
and  thus  in  knowing  him  that  we 
might  be  made  free,  "for  this  is  life 
eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee, 
the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ 
whom  thou  hast  sent."  He  gave  us 
the  gift  of  his  Son  that  we  should 
be  won  to  him,  that  we  should  love 
him,  for  we  give  gifts  to  those 
whom  we  would  win,  whom  we 
would  have  love  us,  whom  we  would 
draw  to  us,  whom  we  would  bring 
close  in  our  affections,  that  they 
might  be  with  us  and  associate  with 
us,  and  share  with  us  our  joys  and 
good  fortune.  He  gave  the  Christ 
unto  men  that  they  might  live  again, 
that  they  might  be  made  free,  for 
the  truth  should  make  them  free  in 
their  worship,  in  their  power  of 
mind,  and  in  their  bodies,  too,  for 
that  matter,  and  the  redemption 
wrought  out  by  the  Christ  makes  us 
all  alive  again  in  eternity,  clothed 


ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON 


47 


upon  with  immortality  and  eternal 
youth. 

Now,  Gocl  gave  his  Son  to  bring 
men  to  him,  his  most  precious  gift, 
to  know  his  mind  and  will,  to  be- 
lieve his  word.  I  know  not  whether 
the  mothers  of  men  count  the  cost 
of  bearing  sons  into  the  world  or 
not,  but  I  do  believe  that  all  of  you 
have  counted  the  cost  of  sending 
your  sons  to  the  battle  front.  Whilst 
you  know  that  the  voice  of  God  is 
heard  in  the  battle  shout  as  well  as 
in  the  still,  small  voie,  you  would, 
if  it  were  possible  for  you,  that  this 
cup  should  pass,  and  that  the  lives 
of  your  sons  should  be  preserved. 
Yet  you  know  that  "greater  love 
hath  no  man  than  this,  that  a  man 
lay  down  his  life  for  his  friends," 
and  so  many  of  us  have  given  to 
the  world  our  most  precious  gifts, 
our  sons,  that  the  principle  of  truth, 
which  is  the  true  principle  of  lib- 
erty, should  be  enjoyed  by  all  peo- 
ples ;  that  in  knowing  the  truth  they, 
too,  might  be  made  free ;  that  the 
principles  enunciated  by  our  fathers, 
inspired  of  God  and  written  in  the 
Constitution  of  our  land,  shall  go 
forth  to  govern  the  peoples  of  the 
earth,  and  thus  shall  "the  law  go 
forth  from  Zion,"  as  we  are  told  of 
old.  Thus  men  shall  be  free  to 
worship  God  according  to  the  dic- 
tates of  their  own  conscience ;  men 
shall  be  free  to  follow  in  the  pur- 
suit of  happiness,  so  long  as  they 
shall  not  intrude  upon  the  rights 
and  privileges  of  others ;  and  men 
shall  be  equal  before  the  law ;  that 
priestcraft  and  kingcraft  shall  cease. 

For  the  purpose  we  have  given  to 
the  world  our  best  gift,  our  loved 
sons,  and  herein  comes  the  testi- 
mony to  me  that  we  are  in  the  ser- 
vice of  our  God,  that  we  are  follow- 
ing in  his  footsteps,  and  that  we  by 


this  gift  show  our  love  for  our  fel- 
low men.  God,  in  order  that  the 
father  of  the  faithful  might  appre- 
ciate his  sacrifice  and  the  love  that 
he  was  showing  to  man,  commanded 
him,  Abraham,  to  take  his  son  of 
promise  and  offer  him  a  sacrifice, 
after  the  order  of  sacrifice  instituted 
when  Adam  was  cast  out  of  the  gar- 
den of  Eden,  and  this  brought  home 
to  Father  Abraham,  as  nothing  else 
perhaps  would,  the  wonderful  sac- 
rifice that  God  would  make  when 
his  beloved  Son  should  be  offered 
up,  when  he  should  be  lifted  up  in 
order  that  men  might  be  drawn  to 
him.  Happily  in  this  instance  there 
was  a  ram  caught  in  the  thicket,  and 
an  angel's  hand  stayed  the  arm  that 
was  about  to  strike,  and  the  boy  was 
delivered. 

I  would  that  I  could  feel  that 
that  is  a  type  and  a  promise  to  us ; 
that  there  shall  be  a  ram  caught  in 
the  thicket,  that  our  Doys  may  be 
•delivered,  but  I  feel  that  many  of 
them  will  be  called  upon  not  only 
to  pass  through  Gethsemane  but  to 
make  the  last  sacrifice  in  order  that 
men  shall  be  drawn  to  us.  For 
when  they  do  truly  know  that  it  is 
not  for  selfish  aggrandizement,  not 
for  territorial  expansion,  not  for 
selfishness  that  we  wage  the  war, 
men  will  be  drawn  to  us,  and  in  the 
baptism  of  fire  and  blood  that  shall 
come  to  ourselves  and  them  the 
world  shall  be  born  anew ;  freedom 
shall  be  established  once  for  all,  and 
the  neck  of  the  tyrant  shall  be  had 
under  the  heels  of  free  men,  and  the 
world  shall  be  made  free  and  Christ 
shall  come  and  reign  as  King  of 
kings  and  Lord  of  1  ords.  Then 
there  shall  be  none  to  hurt  nor  make 
afraid  in  all  his  holy  mountain ; 
and  the  "knowledge  of  God  shall 
cover  the  earth  from  the  rivers  to 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  sea,"  and  men  shall  know  him, 
and  in  knowing  him  shall  love  him 
and  keep  his  commandments.  This 
reconciles  me  to  my  offering  of  my 
son.  This  will  reconcile  you  fathers 
and  mothers  to  the  offering  of  your 
sons  ;  that  through  them  we  show 
our  love  for  mankind,  our  love  for 
the  principles  of  truth,  and  that  we 
would  reclaim  them  from  their  mad- 
ness and  establish  peace  upon  the 
earth,  that  the  Son  of  man  himself 
may  come  to  rule  and  reign,  which 
God  grant  shall  be  speedily,  I  ask 
in  the  name  of  Christ  Jesus.  Amen. 

A  tenor  solo,  "O  my  Father,  thou 
that  dwellest,"  was  sung  by  David 
Reese. 

ELDER  JOHN  L.  HERRICK. 

(President    of    the    Western  States 
Mission.) 

It  is  practically  inevitable,  and 
just  as  morally  certain  to  all  those 
who  believe  the  scripture  and  have 
followed  the  swiftly  passing  and 
tremendously  vital  events  of  recent 
months  and  years  which  are  absorb- 
ing the  attention  of  the  whole 
world,  that  after  the  titanic  struggle 
between  the  powers  of  Satan  and 
God's  power  there  will  be  a  re- 
alignment of  the  religions  of  the 
world. 

Men  and  women  everywhere 
have  begun  to  examine  their  lives, 
to  question  themselves  and  others 
regarding  the  vital  things  pertain- 
ing to  life.  They  have  become  con- 
cerned more  of  deity  than  ever  be- 
fore. They  have  come  to  realize 
and  to  ask  themselves  the  question, 
what  of  God  our  Father  and  Christ 
our  Savior  and  the  hope  beyond  the 
grave?  It  is  interesting,  in  connec- 
tion with  the  situation  as  we  see  it, 


when  churches  are  considering 
amalgamation  with  other  churches, 
when  different  branches  of  some 
churches  are  trying  to  get  together 
and  join  forces  on  some  common 
ground,  and  when  men's  hearts  are 
torn  asunder,  to  ask  ourselves, 
where  do  we  stand  in  connection 
with  these  things  ?  Is  there  need 
for  Latter-day  Saints  to  alter  their 
course?  Is  there  need  to  change 
their  fundamental  teachings?  Is 
there  need  to  join  with  others  in 
seeking  to  know  the  truth  pertain- 
ing to  the  history  of  man,  both  in 
life  and  hereafter?  We  have  no 
reason  to  change  our  idea  as  to 
Deity,  because  that  idea  has  been 
well  founded  and  established  in  the 
hearts  of  Latter-day  Saints  as  they 
have  become  such,  following  the 
time  when  the  Prophet  Joseph  said 
that  God  and  his  son  had  appeared 
to  him,  for  we  know  in  our  hearts 
through  our  faith  and  works  that 
God  lives.  The  personal  testimony 
has  come  to  his  faithful  children 
since  the  organization  of  his  Church 
in  latter  times,  that  he  does  indeed 
live  and  that  his  Son  is  our  Re- 
deemer. The  minds  and  hearts  of 
men  are  being  turned  to  God,  not 
only  because  of  the  serious  condi- 
tion in  the  world,  but  because  men 
who  have  heretofore  written  novels 
and  light  literature  have  come  to 
write  pertaining  to  the  more  vital 
things  of  life. 

The  most  persistent  criticism 
came  at  the  beginning  of  the  war, 
or  in  the  first  year  of  the  war,  when 
members  of  the  church  of  England 
began  to  question  whether  or  not 
the  church  was  living  up  to 
its  requirements.  Criticism  was 
found  on  every  hand  for  the  church 
for  a  time,  and  then  celebrated 
writers  began  to  elucidate-  things 


ELDER  JOHN  L.  HERRICK. 


49 


that  perhaps  were  new  to  these 
people. 

H.  G.  Wells,  the  widely  read 
novelist,  wrote  an  unusually  inter- 
esting book  entitled  "God  the  Invis- 
ible King."  Sir  A.  Conan  Doyle 
also  wrote  very  pertinently  as  to  re- 
ligion,— all  tending  I  believe  to  pre- 
pare men's  minds  to  look  differently 
than  heretofore  on  the  questions  re- 
lating to  Deity  and  the  hereafter. 
Great  religious  newspapers  began 
to  take  up  the  fight,  some  in  defense 
of  the  church  but  many  of  them  in- 
timating and  admitting  that  the 
churches  as  a  whole,  the  so  called 
Christian  churches  utterly  failed  in 
this  crisis  of  the  world's  history. 
"The  Biblical  World,"  of  Chicago, 
not  long"  ago,  in  defending  the  at- 
titude of  the  ministry  declaring  that 
Biblical  students  had  taken  their 
place  in  the  ranks  and  had  not 
availed-  themselves  of  the  right  to 
remain  out  of  the  war,  said  that  if 
there  was  one  supreme  thing  that 
the  church  should  heed  it  was  the 
spiritual  side  of  life,  and  the  par- 
ticular sentence  I  refer  to,  and  the 
closing-  sentence  of  this  artcle, 
read  :  "After  the  war  we  shall  need 
religion."  We  need  religion  during 
the  war ;  we  need  it  now,  when  our 
sons  are  giving  up  their  lives,  or 
are  prepared  to  do  it,  and  when  our 
daughters  are  going  to  the  front 
and  the  very  faith  of  many  is  being" 
sorely  tested,  we  need  religion  per- 
haps in  a  measure  among-  our 
own  people  but  more  especially 
among  doubting  men  and  women 
everywhere,  that  they  may  acknow- 
ledge that  Jesus  is  the  Christ. 
I  verily  believe  that  this  truth  is 
coming  to  the  hearts  of  men  more 
today  than  ever  in  the  history  of 
the  world  before.  In  the  midst 
of  it  all  it  seems  to  me  that  every 


forward  movement,  everything  that 
has  been  done  looking  to  the  better- 
ment of  nations,  of  communities  or 
of  individuals,  has  all  been  a  vindi- 
cation of  the  teachings  of  "Mar- 
monism." 

I  said  a  few  moments  ago  that  we 
believe  in  a  living  God,  in  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ,  as  a  verity.  The  world 
will  come  to  know  and  acknow- 
ledge that  more  than  ever  before. 
You  will  remember  that  in  the  first 
few  months  of  this  awful  struggle 
of  nations  the  minds  of  great  men 
were  turned  to  the  physical.  They 
wondered  whether  or  not  men 
would  be  fit  to  fight  under  the  then 
present  conditions, — they  began  to 
look  for  some  means  of  betterment, 
and  so  they  abolished  first  in  Rus- 
sia the  use  of  vodka,  then  in  France 
they  followed  with  a  restriction  up- 
on the  use  of  absinthe,  and  soon 
England  took  the  cue  and  the  re- 
straining hand  was  put  upon  the  use 
of  beers.  Later  on,  when  they  saw 
the  almost  unheard  of  benefit  that 
came  to  the  soldiers,  they  began  to 
look  for  another  underlying  cause 
of  weakness.  They  found  that  there 
were  physical  ailments  affecting 
whole  cantonments,  and  it  was  ad- 
mitted in  the  first  year  of  the  war 
that  more  men  had  been  put  out  of 
commission  because  of  d:sease  than 
from  any  other  cause,  and  investi- 
gation on  a  huge  and  scientific 
scale  was  begun  in  order  to  better 
the  moral  atmosphere,  and  they 
have  succeeded  until  the  beneficent 
effects  have  been  astounding.  To- 
day men  are  better  fit  than  in  any 
year  of  the  war,  because  they  have 
been  restrained,  and  because  pro- 
tection has  been  thrown  around 
them,  and  because  they  are  getting 
different  ideals  of  human  expe- 
riences.   The  Word  of  Wisdom,  if 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


they  only  knew  it,  has  been  the 
watchword  in  many  ways.  It  is  true 
they  have  used  tobacco,  and  will 
probably  continue  to  do  it.  When 
men  use  it,  if  they  do  so  of  their 
own  free  will  and  pay  for  it  them- 
selves, it  is  their  own  business ;  but 
there  ought  to  be  objection  to  send- 
ing- tobacco  to  men,  to  give  it  to 
them  and  entice  those  who  perhaps 
otherwise  would  not  use  it  to  be- 
come users  of  it.  In  the  midst  of  it 
all,  my  brethern  and  sisters,  there 
is  one  supreme  thing  that  stands 
out,  and  that  is  that  all  of  us  who 
have    anything  to    do    with  this 
struggle,  either  at  home  or  abroad, 
should  make   individual  .sacrifice, 
should  be  willing  to  sacrifice  from 
•day  to  day  in   our    appetite,  our 
social   necessities  and  in  what  we 
wear,  that  we  should  be  constantly 
willing  to  make  a  personal  appear- 
ance before  the  world  that  we  are 
right  living,  and  that  our  example 
here   and   everywhere   should  be 
made   to   conform   to  those  who 
believe  firmly  that  God  lives,  and 
determine  in  our  hearts  to  uphold 
and  sustain  and  maintain  such  be- 
lief. If  we  do  that  we  have  not 
much  to  fear.  The  Lord  will  bless 
our  sons  and  our  daughters.  He 
may  not  preserve  them  all  in  life, 
but  he  will  bless  them,  so  that  the 
example  they  set  before  the  world 
will  teach  men  and  women  that  we 
know  how  to  live,  as  well  as  how 
to  die,  and  our  faith  and  know- 
ledge   of    the    life    beyond  the 
grave    is    beyond   nearly  all  else, 
and  we  can  hold  that  hope  out  to 
every  one  and  we  can  ,say  to  them 
that  here  is  the  supreme  moment  in 
our  lives,  when  we  can  teach  men 
to  believe  that  we  live  after  death 
and  receive  reward  according  to  in- 
dividual acts.  If  we  follow  the  ad- 


monition of  those  who  are  our  lead- 
ers, heed  their  instruction  from 
time  to  time,  listen  to  the  inspiring 
words  that  come  to  us  from  the 
.servants  of  God,  we  will  be  in  the 
line  of  duty.  If  we  are  willing  to 
sacrifice,  if  we  are  willing  to  live 
the  Word  of  Wisdom,  if  we  are 
willing  to  teach  it  by  precept  and 
example,  and  if  we  keep  our  lives 
unspotted,  and  if  we  send  our  boys 
away  free  from  the  sins  of  the 
world  and  do  our  utmost  to  en- 
courage them  in  the  line  of  their 
duty,  we  will  have  done  a  splendid 
work. 

May  God  bless  Israel  in  its  noble 
attempt  to  help  the  world  in  its 
struggle  for  democracy  and  for 
freedom.  May  we  all  have  the  as- 
sistance of  God,  that  when  the  su- 
preme time  comes  in  our  lives  we 
will  be  ready  to  make  every  sacrifice 
that  is  demanded  or  required ;  aye, 
that  we  may  go  farther  than  that, 
and  offer  that  sacrifice,  whatever  it 
may  be  or  where  best  we  may  serve, 
and  may  he  bless  and  preserve  his 
leaders  in  Israel,  bless  our  beloved 
America  and  all  who  need  our  peti- 
tion, I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

Before  the  adjournment  of  this 
meeting  I  would  like  to  present  to 
the  Conference  one  or  two  items 
which  I  desire  to  get  an  expression 
upon  from  them  prior  to  the  pre- 
sentation of  the  officers  of  the 
Church,  this  afternoon. 

JOSEPH  F.  SMITH,  JR.,  SUSTAINED  AS 
MEMBER  CHURCH  BOARD  OF 
EDUCATION. 

I  need  not  announce  here  that  a 
vacancy  was  caused  in  the  General 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


51 


Board  of  Education  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
by  the  death  of  President  Francis 
M.  Lyman.  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr., 
has  been  suggested  to  fill  the  va- 
cancy in  that  Board,  caused  by  the 
death  of  President  Lyman.  I  would 
like  an  expression  of  the  Saints 
present  at  this  conference  as  to 
whether  they  approve  of  the  choice 
or  not.  All  who  are  in  favor  will 
please  signify  it  by  the  uplifted 
hand.  If  there  are  any  opposed 
they  may  signify  it  by  the  same 
sign.    I  see  no  opposition. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.   LYMAN  CHOSEN 
TO  FILL  THE  VACANCY  IN  THE 
COUNCIL  OF  TWELVE. 

It  has  been  brought  again  to  our 
remembrance  that  there  is  a  vacancy 
in  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apos- 
tles, which  should  be  filled  at  this 
conference.  We  have  to  offer  to  you 
the  name  of  Richard  R.  Lyman,  a 
son  of  President  Francis  M.  Lyman, 
to  fill  the  vacancy  in  the'  Council  of 
the  Twelve.  All  who  are  in  favor 
of  this  choice  as  indicated  by  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  his  servants, 
will  manifest  it  by  raising  their 
right  hand.  If  there  be  any  op- 
posed they  may  manifest  it  by  the 
same  sign.  [The  vote  was  unani- 
mous.] 

THE  TITHING  USED  FOR  ALL  LEGITI- 
MATE CAUSES  PERTAINING  TO 
THE  BUILDING  UP  OF  ZION. 

We  feel,  as  the  Trustee-in-Trust 
and  President  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
and  as  the  Presiding  Council  over 
all  the  Church — the  First  Presiden- 
cy, in  connection  with  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Pre- 


siding Bishopric,  at  liberty  to  use 
the  tithings  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
in  all  legitimate  causes  pertaining 
to  the  building  up  of  Zion.  You  are 
aware  that  our  special  duty  and 
obligation  is  to  build  up  Zion  in  the 
latter  days.  This  includes  the  build- 
ing and  maintenance  of  temples,  in 
which  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  are  performed  and 
administered  for  the  living  and  for 
the  dead.  It  is  our  duty  to  assist 
the  poor  and  the  needy.  It  is  our 
duty  to  build  places  of  worship  for 
the  Latter-clay  Saints,  using  such 
portion  of  the  tithings  of  the  people 
that  come  into  our  hands  as  we  can 
use  agreeable  to  the  amount  we 
have  to  use  for  the  accomplishment 
of  these  purposes.  We  may  use  the 
tithing  of  the  people  for  the  build- 
ing up  of  settlements — to  assist  our 
people  when  they  attempt  to  make 
new  settlements,  to  reclaim  the 
desert  and  to  procure  water  for  irri- 
gation purposes,  and  in  this  matter 
the  Church  has  been  somewhat  lib- 
eral. 

It  is  our  duty  also  to  maintain 
schools  and  seminaries  throughout 
the  length  and  breadth  of  Zion, 
where  our  children  who  are  in  the 
district  schools  where  no  religion  is 
permitted  to  be  taught,  may  have 
the  privilege  of  being  instructed  in 
connection  with  the  secular  learning 
that  is  given  to  them,  those  princi- 
ples which  are  necessary  for  their 
faith  and  for  their  establishment  in 
the  knowledge  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  It  is  our  duty  to  use 
the  means  that  are  committed  into 
our  hands  for  the  assistance  of  the 
missions  that  are  appointed  and  es- 
tablished throughout  the  nations  of 
the  world,  and  in  many  other  ways 
legitimately  for  the  building  up  of 
Zion  and  for  the  spread  of  the  truth, 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  proclamation  of  the  gospel,  the 
maintenance  of  the  authorities  of 
the  priesthood,  whose  time  and 
talent  are  devoted  exclusively  to  the 
ministry,  that  they  may  be  fed,  not 
luxuriantly,  not  superabundantly 
but  in  sufficient  measure  that  they 
may  not  suffer  for  the  necessaries 
of  life.  Part  of  our  means  is  dis- 
tributed to  assist  the  bishops  in  the 
arduous  duties  that  they  have  to 
perform,  for  services  that  are  neces- 
sary in  keeping'  the  records  of  the 
Church,  of  the  tithing  and  of  other 
records  necessary  to  be  kept.  All 
these  things  we  esteem  as  legitimate 
and  proper  within  the  sphere  of  our 
authority  and  we  do  not,  under  such 
circumstances,  publicly  ask  for  ap- 
proval of  the  Church  at  large  for 
sanction  in  the  discharge  of  our  du- 
ties in  this  regard. 

SPECIAL    APPROPRIATION    FOR  THE 
PURCHASE  OF  LIBERTY  BONDS. 

But  when  we  go  apparently  out- 
side of  these  well  known  and  beaten 
paths  to  use  the  means  of  the  people 
of  the  Church,  we  feel  that  it  is  our 
duty  to  present  the  cause  to  them 
and  obtain  their  sanction  and  ap- 
proval for  the  use  of  the  means  that 
we  may  think  wise  to  put  it  to. 

You  are  well  aware  that  at  our 
late  conference,  by  the  voice  of  the 
conference  and  their  approval  we 
used  $250,000  of  the  Church  tith- 
ings  for  the  purchase  of  Liberty 
bonds,  thus  placing  that  amount  of 
means  in  the  hands  of  our  Govern- 
ment for  the  defense  of  liberty  and 
of  freedom  that  we  enjoy  to  worship 
God  according  to  the  dictates  of  our 
own  consciences. 

Now,  I  have  a  similar  proposal  to 
make  to  this  conference  this  morn- 
ing, that  we  offer  again,  or  at  least 


appropriate  the  same  amount  for  the 
purchase  of  more  of  the  bonds  of 
the  United  States.  I  submit  it  to 
you  and  I  ask  that  those  who  are  in 
favor  may  signify  it  by  the  unlifted 
hand,  and  if  there  i.s  anybody  op- 
posed to  this,  who  has  a  right  to 
have  a  voice  in  the  use  of  the  means 
that  he  contributes  to  the  Church, 
let  him  manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 
[Out  of  the  10,000  persons  present 
there  was  not  a  single  neg'ative 
vote.]  I  believe  that  the  vote  is 
unanimous. 

AN    AUTHORITATIVE  DECLARATION. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  is  no  partisan 
Church.  It  is  not  a  sect.  It  is  The 
Church  of  Jcstts  Christ  of  Latter- 
•day  Saints.  It  is  the  only  one  today 
existing  in  the  world  that  can  and 
does  legitimately  bear  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ  and  his  divine  author- 
ity. I  make  this  declaration  in  all 
simplicity  and  honesty  before  you 
and  before  all  the  world,  bitter  as 
the  truth  may  seem  to  those  who 
are  opposed  and  who  have  no  rea- 
son for  that  opposition.  It  is  never- 
theless true  and  will  remain  true 
until  He  who  has  a  right  to  rule 
among  the  nations  of  the  earth  and 
among  the  individual  children  of 
God  throughout  the  world  shall 
come  and  take  the  reins  of  govern- 
ment and  receive  the  bride  that 
shall  be  prepared  for  the  coming  of 
the  Bridegroom. 

Many  of  our  great  writers  have 
recently  been  querying  and  won- 
dering where  the  divine  authority 
exists  today  to  command  in  the 
name  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son 
and  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  so  that  it 
will  be  in  effect  and  acceptable  at 
the  throne  of  the  Eternal  Father.  I 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


53 


will  announce  here  and  now,  pre- 
sumptuous as  it  may  seem  to  be  to 
those  who  know  not  the  truth,  that 
the  divine  authority  of  Almighty 
God,  to  speak  in  the  name  of  the 
Father  and  of  the  Son,  is  here  in 
the  midst  of  these  everlasting"  hills, 
in  the  midst  of  this  intermountain 
region,  and  it  will  abide  and  will 
continue,  for  God  is  its  source  and 
God  is  the  power  by  which  it  has 
been  maintained  against  all  opposi- 
tion in  the  world  up  to  the  present, 
and  by  which  it  will  continue  to 
progress  and  grow  and  increase  on 
the  earth  until  it  shall  cover  the 
earth  from  sea  to  sea.  This  is  my 
testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  I  have  a  fulness  of  joy 
and  of  satisfaction  in  being  able  to 
declare  this  without  regard  to  or 
fear  of  all  the  adversaries  of  the 
truth. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 
"O  ye  mountains  high." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder 
Heber  Q.  Hale,  President  of  the 
Boise,  Idaho,  stake  of  Zion,  and 
conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

At  2  o'clock  the  conference  was 
called  to  order  by  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  who  presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  hymn  :  "High  on  the  mountain 
top." 

The  prayer  was  offered  by  Presi- 
dent Adolph  Merz,  of  the  North 
Sanpete  stake  of  Zion. 

"Praise  to  the  man  who  com- 
muned with  Jehovah,"  was  sung  by 
the  choir  and  congregation. 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH. 

(Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church.) 

Never  before  in  all  my  life  have 
I  been  so  grateful  that  I  am  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Church  of  Jesus-  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  as  I  am  today. 
My  heart  swells  with  blessings  for 
the  faithful  in  Israel,  for  the  faith- 
ful Latter-day  Saints,  for  God's 
blessings  are  upon  the  people  of  this 
Church.  The  Lord  has  blessed  the 
leaders  of  Israel.  He  has  blessed 
the  people  of  Israel  who  have  en- 
tered the  fold  of  Christ.  He  has 
blessed  the  Church  in  all  its  ramifi- 
cations throughout  the  world,  and 
I  pray  that  he  will  continue  to  bless 
the  Church  and  those  whom  he  has 
called  to  lead  and  direct  its  affairs 
upon  the  earth. 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  for 
which  we  are  so  grateful  contains 
very  many  simple  principles,  but 
they  are  principles  of  power,  and 
I  suppose  every  heart  swelled  with 
gratitude  and  emotion  when  Pres- 
ident Smith  in  majesty  and  in  power 
declared  his  testimony,  that  this  is 
the  Church.  I  believe  it  with  all  my 
heart,  and  testify  that  it  is  the 
Church  of  God,  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  which  God  honors  in  the 
earth,  for  we  have  seen  his  power 
made  manifest  in  our  ministry  and 
in  the  ministry  of  His  servants, 
many  of  whom  are  here  before  me, 
the  presidents  of  stakes  of  Zion,  the 
bishops  of  wards,  their  counselors, 
and  their  associates,  elders  in  Israel. 
The  power  of  God  has  been  made 
manifest  in  their  ministry,  in  love, in 
harmony,  in  the  teaching  of  the 
truth,  in  the  bringing  of  the  bless- 
ings of  joy  and  happiness  into  the 
lives  of  many  people  from  many 
lands.  I  know  that  the  power  of 
God  is  with  the  elders  in  Israel, 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


those  who  are  faithful  and  true  to 
their  covenants  and  privileges.  My 
heart  is  also  filled  with  compassion 
and  pity  for  those  who  are  not 
true  and  faithful  because  we  dislike 
to  ,see.  our  brethren  and  our  sisters, 
or  our  friends,  who  cannot  enjoy 
the  blessings  of  happiness  that  we 
are  enjoying,  and  so  our  hearts  go 
out  to  the  world  and  to  those  who 
are  not  of  us,  wishing  and  praying 
that  they  might  enjoy  the  same 
blessings  of  comfort  and  joy  and 
peace  of  heart  and  soul  that  we 
are  blessed  to  enjoy. 

There  are  many  people  of  the 
world,  some  of  them  in  our  midst, 
that  when  we  declare  these  glorious 
principles  of  joy  and  happiness, 
they  turn  away  from  them  some- 
times very  much  in  disgust,  not 
being  able  to  understand  them  as 
we  do,  and  the  words  of  a  poem, 
one  of  our  hymns,  frequently  comes 
to  my  mind  upon  this  subject.  The 
words  are  these: 

How  foolish  to  the  carnal  mind 
The    ordinance    of    God  appears! 

Men  count  it  as  a  puff  of  wind, 
And  greet  it  with  contemptuous 
sneers. 

What!  buried  now  beneath  the  flood, 
To  wash  away  our  guilt  and  sin? 
Are  not  some  other  means  as  good, 
Nay,  better!  Why  appear  so  mean? 

Thus  they  despise  the  proffered  grace, 
And   die  and  perish  in  their  sin; 

So  the  Assyrian  leper  thought — 
What!  wash  in  Jordan  to  be  clean? 

And,  in  a  rage,  he  turned  away, 
And   would    remain    a    leper  still; 

But  lo!  his  humble  servant's  sway 
Prevailed  at  last  and  changed  his 
will. 

He  washed  in  Jordan's  rolling  flood, 
And  found  the  foul  disease  removed; 
The    virtue    of    the    word    of  God 
Thus  by  experience  Naaman  proved! 


Poor  sinners  now  would  fain  perform 
Some  great  and  meritorious  deed; 

Bow  to  the  systems  mortals  form, 
That  from  their  sins  they  may 
be  freed. 

But  why  not  yield  to  simple  means? 

The  Gospel  is  the  power  of  God; 
'Twill  save  the  vilest  from  their  sins, 

And  turn  away  His  chastening  rod. 

P.  P.  Pratt 

There  are  many  who  say,  "What 
a  simple  thing  it  is  to  go  down  into 
the  water  to  be  baptized,"  but  it  is 
the  gateway  to  the  kingdom  of  God 
when  performed  by  proper  author- 
ity, and  there  is  no  other  way  for 
us  to  enter  that  gate.  A  simple 
thing  to  be  baptized  for  another 
that  he  might  live  again !  Many  of 
us  go  into  the  house  of  the  Lord, 
the  temples  of  God,  and  perform 
this  simple  ordinance  that  our 
friends  or  our  kindred  dead  may 
enter  this  glorious  kingdom  as  we 
have  entered  it,  they  having  failed 
to  perform  that  duty  here  in  their 
lifetime,  we  say  "Oh,  what  a  simple 
thing  it  is,"  and  how  little  we  appre- 
ciate it,  yet  what  a  glorions  princi- 
ple is  back  of  it.  Did  you  ever  see 
anyone  who  offered  a  gift  to  a 
friend  or  to  a  loved  one  but  what 
his  heart  was  filled  with  joy?  The 
giver  of  a  good  gift  is  always  bless- 
ed with  joy.  I  have  witnessed  this 
joy  upon  the  faces  of  my  brethren 
and  sisters  who  have  performed  the 
simple  act  of  going  down  into  the 
water  and  being  baptized  by  an  el- 
der in  Israel  in  behalf  of  dead  kind- 
red or  a  dead  friend.  The  joy  of 
giving  a  good  gift  is  great,  but  the 
joy  that  fills  the  soul  of  one  doing 
something  for  someone  else  who 
could  not  act  for  himself  is  a  joy 
beyond  measure. 

I  suppose  all  of  the  people  of  the 
world  who  believe  in  Jesus  Christ 
have  a  faith  that  he  died  for  us, 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


55 


that  he  died  to  make  possible  the 
resurrection  from  the  dead,  a  simple 
thing,  perhaps,  but  a  wonderful 
thing  for  us ;  and  it  gives  us  an  ex- 
ample of  doing  things  for  others 
which  they  cannot  do  for  them- 
selves. Had  it  not  been  for 
the  atonement  of  Jesus  Christ 
there  would  not  have  been  a 
resurrection.  There  would  have 
been  death  in  the  world  since 
Adam  died;  but  for  the  atone- 
ment of  Jesus  Christ  there  would 
have  been  no  resurrection  from  the 
dead.  In  the  atonement  of  Jesus 
Christ  we  have  the  example  of  the 
glorious  principle  of  doing  for  oth- 
ers what  others  cannot  do  for  them- 
selves. The  Latter-day  Saints  are 
blessed  with  that  glorious  privilege 
of  doing  for  their  loved  ones  and 
for  their  kindred  dead  what  they 
did  not  do  for  themselves,  so  that 
the  acts  of  the  gospel,  these  simple 
acts  of  going  down  into  the  water 
and  being  baptized  by  a  proper  au- 
thority, the  simple  act  of  laying 
hands  upon  the  sick  for  their  restor- 
ation, the  simple  act  of  laying  hands 
upon  our  brethern  and  our  sisters  to 
confer  the  Holy  Ghost,  they  are  all 
simple  acts,  simple  ordinances,  but 
ordinances  of  power,  which  are 
acknowledged  both  upon  earth  and 
in  heaven. 

I  am  grateful,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  for  these  simple  truths.  I  am 
grateful  for  the  blessings  of  the 
gospel,  and  for  the  power  of  the 
holy  priesthood,  the  authority  to  act 
in  the  name  of  God,  to  rebuke  dis- 
ease, to  rebuke  the  powers  of  the 
destroyer,  and  I  testify  to  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  power 
is  in  the  Church  today ;  it  is  the 
power  of  God  to  speak  and  act 
in  his  name,  and  in  all  humility 
I  feel  and  sense   the  responsibil- 


ity that  has  come  to  me  to  offi- 
ciate in  the  name  of  the 
Lord.  I  pray  that  I  may  do  so  in 
the  spirit  of  wisdom  and  in  the 
spirit  of  humility.  I  have  received 
many  testimonies  that  the  Lord  has 
blessed  me,  that  he  has  given  me 
words  of  inspiration  for  the  com- 
fort, counsel  and  benefit  of  his  chil- 
dren, and  I  solicit  earnestly  your 
faith  and  prayers  to  the  end  that 
the  power  of  God  in  the  earth  may 
be  used  in  wisdom  and  in  justice  by 
his  servants ;  and  particularly  in  my 
behalf  I  do  feel  that  I  need  your 
faith  and  prayers,  that  I  may  labor 
earnestly  and  faithfully  for  the 
progress  of  the  work,  and  that  the 
blessings  and  counsel  given  to  the 
sons  and  daughters  of  Zion  may  be 
given  under  the  proper  inspiration 
and  guidance.  There  have  been 
many  of  our  boys  received  counsel 
and  instruction  under  this  influence, 
and  they  have  gone  out  now  to  face 
danger  in  the  world.  They  have 
gone  out,  many  of  them,  bearing 
the  holy  priesthood.  They  have 
confidence  in  the  power  that  they 
possess,  and  I  testify  to  you  that, 
if  those  brethren,  our  boys,  will 
honor  that  priesthood — the  power 
of  God  which  has  been  given  them, 
and  the  promises  made  unto  them 
through  that  power,  they  will  stand 
under  the  protection  and  in  the 
favor  of  God  and  be  honored  ser- 
vants in  his  hands  ;  for  this  is  God's 
work  and  it  is  going  forth  and  will 
triumph  in  the  earth.  The  proph- 
ecies of  his  servants  are  being  ful- 
filled hourly  and  daily  before  our 
very  eyes,  and  I  testify  to  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  work 
of  the  Lord  will  continue  to  grow 
in  the  earth  until  its  mission  is  fully 
performed. 

May  we  be  true  and  faithful,  may 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  blessings  of  our  Father  be  in 
our  homes  and  be  with  our  sons  and 
•daughters,  that  we  may  grow  daily 
in  faith,  in  repentance,  that  we  may 
have  the  spirit  and  practice  of 
prayer  in  our  homes,  that  we  may 
honor  the  priesthood  of  God  as  it 
is  held  by  the  elders  in  Israel,  the 
different  officers  throughout  the 
Church,  may  our  hearts  be  filled 
with  gratitude  that  we  are  members 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  live  in  this 
day.  God's  blessings  be  upon  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters ;  and  upon 
the  presiding  authorities  through- 
out the  Church.  I  join  my  brethren 
in  praying  for  God's  choicest  bless- 
ings to  be  upon  the  President  of  the 
Church,  that  his  body  may  be  made 
equal  to  his  mind,  that  he  may  be 
equal  to  the  great  responsibilities 
that  are  upon  him.  May  his  asso- 
ciates receive  like  and  similar  bless- 
ings according  to  their  needs.  May 
the  blessings  of  Israel  be  upon 
Israel,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

I  presume  it  is  known  generally 
that  the  last  speaker  is  the  Presid- 
ing Patriarch  of  the  Church,  and  he 
is  beginning  to  possess  the  spirit  of 
blessing  in  goodly  measure,  I  am 
happy  to  say. 

ELDER  WALTER  P.  MONSON. 

(President    of    the    Eastern  States 
Mission.) 

I  esteem  this  a  rare  privilege  to 
meet  with  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  in  this  conference,  to  come 
up  to  Zion  and  cast  with  the  Church 
the  patriotic  vote  that  has  been  al- 
ready cast  during  the  previous  ses- 
sion of  the  conference.    I  wonder 


how  long  the  criticisms  will  obtain 
as  touching  the  patriotism  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints ! 

In  the  mission  where  I  am  hon- 
ored to  labor  there  are  numer- 
ous criticisms  being  manufac- 
tured of  whole  cloth,  in  which 
we  are  looked  upon  as  being- 
alien  enemies  with  an  organiza- 
tion working  inimical  to  the  inter- 
ests of  this  great  and  glorious  gov- 
ernment. I  wonder  how  people  can 
believe  these  things  after  what  has 
been  said  in  this  conference  !  From 
my  earliest  childhood  I  have  been 
taught  that  this  Nation  has  a  defin- 
ite and  specific  mission  to  perform 
among  the  nations  of  the  earth,  and 
to  that  end  we  are  pressing  forward, 
despite  the  fact  that  we  sometimes 
become  embittered  toward  each 
other  on  account  of  political  opin- 
ions. I  am  still  of  the  opinion  that 
God  is  at  the  helm,  and  that  this 
Nation  is  performing  its  mission 
nobly  in  sending  the  law  of  liberty 
from  Zion  unto  the  uttermost  part's 
of  the  earth,  and  that  its  mission 
will  not  have  been  completed  until 
democracy  is  made  safe  for  the 
world. 

We  wonder  what  steps  might  be 
taken  to  put  an  end  to  this  interne- 
cine war.  We  wonder  how  long  it 
is  going  to  continue ;  and  yet  in  our 
faith  in  God,  we  are  called  upon  to 
press  forward  with  sacrifice  of  life 
and  of  means  in  order  to  liberate 
from  the  hand  of  oppression  those 
whom  we  have  never  seen.  God's 
plan  of  government  is  that  of  the 
people,  by  the  people  and  for  the 
people.  In  the  early  ages  of  the 
world,  or  just  immediately  previous 
to  Christ's  coming,  monarchies  were 
established  and  with  the  iron  hand 
of  rule,  not  law,  men  and  women 
were  ground  under  the  heel  of  op- 


ELDER  WALTER  P.  MO N SON. 


57 


pression.  When  Jesus  of  Nazareth 
came,  he  came  with  the  perfect  law 
of  liberty,  but  it  was  so  high,  so 
grand,  so  far  beyond  the  conception 
of  man  that  he  who  gave  the  law 
was  crucified  upon  the  cross  of  Cal- 
vary. Continuing  on  down  the  ages 
we  have  the  same  rule  of  monarchy, 
absolute  monarchies  in  the  world 
with  but  one  church  that  held  its 
subjects  under  a  religio-political  re- 
gime to  the  extent  that  the  one  who 
stood  at  the  head  of  the  nation  in 
civil  affairs  declared  that  he  himeslf 
was  the  head  of  the  church.  In  the 
sixteenth  century  the  Lord  raised 
up  men  of  courage  who  made  one 
long  stride  toward  the  liberation  of 
mankind,  recognizing  in  a  measure 
men's  right  to  think  and  act  for 
themselves.  It  was  quite  impossi- 
ble for  any  one  who  had  been 
brought  up  under  a  monarchial 
form  of  government  to  institute  any 
government  different  to  that  with 
which  he  was  most  familiar.  There- 
fore, in  the  early  reformation  the 
churches  that  grew  up  patterned 
after  the  civil  form  of  government 
that  then  prevailed  upon  the  earth, 
and  there  was  the  aristocracy  in  the 
church  as  there  was  the  aristocracy 
in  civil  life.  We  come  down  to  the 
time  when  the  Constitution  of  this 
government  was  framed  and  writ- 
ten with  the  pen  of  inspiration,  de- 
signed of  God  to  be  the  funda- 
mental law  of  that  form  of  govern- 
ment that  should  reach  out  to  every 
nation,  every  kindred,  every  tongue 
and  people.  I  desire  to  read  to  you 
a  statement  given  on  December  16, 
1833,  in  a  revelation  to  Joseph,  the 
prophet,  whose  praises  we  have  al- 
ready sung : 

And  again  I  say  unto   you,  those 
who  have  been  scattered  by  their  ene- . 
mies,  it  is  my  will  that  they  should 
continue  to  importune  for  redress,  and 


redemption,  by  the  hands  of  those 
who  are  placed  as  rulers,  and  are  in 
authority  over  you, 

According  to  the  laws  and  consti- 
tution of  the  people  which  I  have  suf- 
fered to  be  established,  and  should  be 
maintained  for  the  rights  and  protec- 
tion of  all  flesh,  according  to  just  and 
holy  principles. 

Why,  I  ask,  should  this  Constitu- 
tion be  enacted  before  the  restora- 
tion of  the  gospel?  Let  the  Lord 
answer : 

That  every  man  may  act  in  doc- 
trine and  principle  pertaining  to  fu- 
turity, according  to  the  moral  agency 
which  I  hve  given  unto  them,  that 
every  man  may  be  accountable  for  his 
own  sins  in  the  day  of  judgment. 

We  read  from  this  scripture  that 
the  Lord  was  responsible  for  bring- 
ing about  this  great  and  glorious 
instrument  known  as  the  Constitu- 
tion of  the  United  States.  Strange 
as  it  might  seem,  God's  purposes 
are  worked  out,  not  suddenly,  but 
by  generations.  W e  mortals  expect 
him  to  deal  in  a  radical  manner  by 
hours,  or  days,  or  months,  or  years. 
Such  is  not  his  way.  Joseph  Smith 
was  not  born  under  English  rule 
upon  this  land.  Sixteen  years  after 
George  Washington  had  taken  the 
oath  of  offiqe  there  was  born  the 
prophet  of  the  Lord  in  the  Green 
Mountain  State,  Vermont ;  and 
when  he  grew  to  manhood  and  was 
commissioned  of  the  Almighty  with 
the  authority  of  the  priesthood  to 
organize  his  Church,  he  did  not  pat- 
tern after  the  strong  and  powerful 
nations  across  the  water,  but  organ- 
ized it  after  the  pattern  of  that  in- 
spired form  of  government,  the 
United  States,  through  which  has 
been  given  unto  us  as  Latter-day 
Saints  the  greatest  .democracy  that 
is  known  in  any  religious  organiza- 
tion upon  the  face  of  the  earth — 
that  organization  running  parallel  in 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


liberality  with  that  of  this  great  na- 
tion. For  instance,  as  the  rail  splitter 
of  Kentucky  aspired  to  and  occu- 
pied the  chair  in  the  White  House, 
so  the  plow  boy  became  prophet. 
There  is  no  aristocracy  in  this 
Church  except  the  aristocracy  of 
righteousness.  There  is  no  aristoc- 
racy in  this  Government  outside  of 
the  aristocracy  of  fit  and  splendid 
citizenship. 

I  wonder  at  what  cost  this  war 
will  end,  or  what  expenditure  will 
be  made  in  order  to  bring  about 
this  liberty  and  freedom  to  all  men. 
I  have  here  a  clipping  taken  from 
one  of  the  New  York  papers,  giv- 
ing some  very  interesting  data  as 
touching  the  cost  of  the  war.  As  we 
are  about  to  be  called  upon  indi- 
vidually to  subscribe  for  Liberty 
Loan  Bonds,  let  us  forsake  some  of 
our  own  pleasures  and  contribute 
liberally  to  a  cause  so  worthy,  the 
cause  for  which  we  are  willing  to 
suffer,  bleed  and  die  to  establish  and 
maintain  upon  the  earth : 

Washington,  March  7. — ■Should  the 
war  continue  until  August  1,  as  it  gives 
every  promise  of  doing,  the  cost  to 
the  nations  involved  will  reach  ap- 
proximately the  stago-ering  total  of 
$160,000,000,000.  This  is  the  estimate 
of  Representative  Frederick  C.  Hicks 
of  New  York,  who  has  compiled  a 
mass  of  interesting  data  on  the  war  in 
response  to  inquiries  from  his  con- 
stituents as  to  the  resources  and 
fighting  strength  of  the  nations  at  war 
and  as  to  the  number  killed  and 
wounded. 

According  to  the  figures  of  Mr. 
Hicks,  15,116,000  men  have  been  killed, 
seriously  wounded,  captured,  or  were 
missing  on  all  sides  up  to  Aug.  1, 
1917.  Of  these  8,827,000  were  on  the 
allied  side  and  6,289,000  on  the  side  of 
the  Central  Towers. 

The  cost  of  the  war  to  all  nations 
was  $98,500,000,000,  on  August  1,  1917. 
To  convey  an  idea  of  the  immensity 
of  this  outlay,  Mr.  Hicks  figures  that 
this  amount  would  construct  257  Pan- 


ama Canals;  would  build  a  railroad 
which  would  encircle  the  earth  at  the 
equator  fifty-six  times;  would  build 
such  a  vast  number  of  standard  steel 
ships,  that,  placed  bow  to  stern,  they 
would  form  an  unbroken  floating 
bridge  from  New  York  to  Liverpool 
and  from  New  York  to  Panama; 
would  construct  2,042  stone  highways 
of  standard  specifications  across  the 
United  States;  would  purchase  220,- 
000,000  Ford  automobiles— probably 
before  the  price  was  raised:  or  if  laid 
out  in  one  dollar  bills  placed  end  to 
end  would  make  a  chain  .of  notes  that 
would  circle  the  o-lobe  464  times  and 
would  make  forty-eight  bands  of 
money  between  the  earth  and  the 
moon. 

That  stupendous  sum,  remarks  the 
Representative  from  New  York,  rep- 
resents an  expenditure  of  $138,240  for 
every  day  that  has  passed  since  the 
beginning  of  the  Christian  era,  and,  if 
distributed  equally  among  the  hordes 
of  humanity,  would  give  sixty-six  dol- 
lars to  every  man,  woman  and  child 
upon  the  world  today.  It  would  build 
6,533  National  Capitols  at  Washing- 
ton, and,  if  it  were  in  one  dollar  bills, 
would  require  621  years  to  count  with 
the  operation  going  forward  at  the 
rate  of  five  bills  a  second. 

Making  still  further  comparisons, 
Mr.  Hicks  directs  attention  to  the 
fact  that  the  cost  of  the  war  to  last 
August  was  three  times  the  total  de- 
posits ,of  all  the  banks  in  the  United 
States,  seven  times  the  annual  value 
of  our  agricultural  products  and  fif- 
teen times  the  value  of  our  yearly  for- 
eign trade.  For  every  month  that  the 
war  continues,  he  says,  an  expendi- 
ture will  be  made  greater  than  that 
made  during  the  entire  Russo-Japanese 
war,  which  lasted  eio-hteen  months. 
It  means  that  the  cost  of  the  Franco- 
Prussian  war  is  being  spent  every  five 
weeks,  and  that  the  American  civil 
war,  which  lasted  four  years,  is  being 
duplicated  in  cost  every  eighty-five 
days. 

History  records  no  other  war  or 
combination  of  wars  which  offers  a 
parallel  in  the  expenditure  of  money 
to  the  present  conflict,  asserts  Mr. 
Hicks.  In  fact,  the  total  direct  cost 
of  the  six  greatest  wars  which  oc- 
curred in  course  of  125  years  preced- 
ing the  present  world  war  was  $21,- 


ELDER  WALTER  P.  MONSON. 


59 


000,000,000.  One  of  these  six  wars 
lasted  twenty-one  years  and  another 
four  years,  yet  this  sum  equals  the 
cost  of  but  eight  months'  fighting  at 
the  present  rate  of  expenditures. 

The  direct  cost  to  the  United  States 
for  the  year  1917,  is  estimated  at  $6, 
700,000,000,  of  which  amount  $3,000,- 
000,000  are  loans  to  the  Entente  Allies. 
The  amount  of  money  appropriated  by 
the  last  Congress  for  expenditures  and 
authorizations  was  about  $18,000,000- 
000,  which  represents  a  daily  gross 
cost  of  the  war  to  the  United  States 
of  $49,000,000. 

Disobedience  to  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  is  tremendously  expen- 
sive, think  you  not? 

What  a  wonderful  saving  there 
would  be  in  the  world  if  men  would 
only  heed  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
which  plants  peace  in  the  hearts  of 
men ! 

I  have  here  a  pamphlet  that  is 
being  distributed  widely  throughout 
the  East,  which  is  the  verbatim  copy 
of  a  discourse  .delivered  by  John  D. 
Rockefeller,  Jr.,  before  the  Baptist 
Ministers'  Association,  in  one  of 
the  prominent  hotels  in  New  York 
City.  He  is  picturing  the  church 
of  the  future.  I  am  curious  to 
know  if  Mr.  Rockefeller  hasn't 
overlooked  our  splendid  organiza- 
tion which  is  a  hi.ss  and  a  byword 
on  the  streets  of  his  own  city,  and 
the  work  it  is  performing.  He  says  : 

Let  us  picture  for  a  moment  what 
this  re-born  church  would  be^_ 

It  would  be  called  the  Church  of 
the  living  God. 

So  we  are  called  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  who 
liveth  forevermore 

Its  terms  of  admission  would  be 
love  for  God,  as  he  is  revealed  in 
Christ,  and  his  living  spirit,  and  the 
vital  translation  of  this  love  into  a 
Christ-like  life. 

Its  atmosphere  would  be  one  of 
warmth,  freedom  and  joy,  so  sympa- 


thetically and  distinctly  manifest  as  to 
attract  and  win  into  its  fellowship  the 
followers  of  the  religion  of  the  In- 
articulate. 

Further  on  he  says: 

A  life,  not  a  creed,  would  be  its  test; 
what  a  man  does,  not  what  he  pro- 
fesses; what  he  is,  .not  what  he  has. 

Its  object  would  be  to  promote  ap- 
plied religion,  not  theoretical  relio-ion. 
This  would  involve  its  sympathetic 
interest  in  all  of  the  great  problems 
of  human  life;  in  social  and  moral 
problems,  those  of  industry  and  busi- 
ness, the  civic  and  educational  prob- 
lems; in  all  such  as  touch  the  life  of 
man. 

As  its  first  concern,  it  would  en- 
courage Christian  living  seven  days  a 
week,  fifty-two  weeks  in  the  year, 
rather  than  speculation  about  the 
hereafter. 

I  wonder,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, if  he  has  not  read  the  first  sec- 
tion of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
where  God  declares,  "I,  the  Lord, 
cannot  look  upon  sin  with  the  least 
•degree  of  allowance." 

Continuing,  he  ,says : 

It  would  be  the  church  of  all  the 
people,  of  everyone  who  is  fighting 
sin  and  trying  to  establish  righteous- 
ness; the  church  of  the  rich  and  the 
poor,  the  wise  and  the  ignorant,  the 
high  and  the  low — a  true  democracy. 

Its  ministers  would  be  trained  not 
only  in  the  seminary,  but  quite  as 
much  in  life,  with  the  supreme  em- 
phasis on  life.  For  it  would  be  an 
important  part  of  the  preparation  of 
each  that  he  should  spend  months, 
years  possibly,  working  with  his  hands 
in  the  fields  or  the  shop,  doing  busi- 
ness in  the  store  or  the  office,  so  thaf 
he  might  not  have  merely  a  laboratory 
acquaintance  with  the  problems  ot 
human  life,  but  the  practical  knowl- 
edge which  alone  comes  from  actual 
experience  and  contact  with  them. 

Yes,  the  ministry  of  this  church 
would  live  in  vital  touch  with  hu- 
manity; it  would  understand  and  sym- 
pathize with  human  difficulties,  and 
would  exert  its  influence  as  much  in 
livino-  as  in  preaching. 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  think  it  is  a  most  excellent  hope 
that  John  D.  Rockefeller,  Jr.,  has, 
and  if  he  would  turn  his  eye  West- 
ward he  would  see  that  splendid 
organization,  that  splendid  minis- 
try, where  men  and  women  are 
called  from  the  various  walks  of  life 
into  the  ministry,  who  know  how  to 
touch  human  sympathy  just  as 
Christ  was  made  mortal  that  he 
might  know  the  needs  of  mortal 
men  and  mortal  women. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony,  my 
brethren  and  .sisters,  for  it  bears 
witness  to  every  fiber  of  my  soul, 
that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  and  that  we  are  engaged  in 
a  great  and  mighty  work  which 
must  be  performed  preparatory  to 
the  second  coming  of  the  Son  of 
God,  for  whose  coming  we  are  anx- 
iously waiting. 

God  bless  you  all,  God  bless  all 
Israel,  God  bless  our  missionaries, 
God  bless  those  boys  who  have  g'one 
abroad  to  fight  in  this  great  war.  I 
want  to  say  for  the  soldier  boys, 
those  who  are  upon  the  Atlantic  sea 
board,  that  they  are  impressing  the 
people  of  the  East  with  the  sincerity 
of  their  lives  and  they  are  perform- 
ing a  wonderful  work.  There  were 
six  hundred  or  more  of  Utah  boys 
brought  to  the  cantonments  on 
Long  Island ;  but  instead  of  being 
allowed  to  remain  together,  they 
were  used  as  "chinking"  for  every 
regiment  stationed  at  those  various 
cantonments,  and  it  has  appeared 
to  me  that  with  the  splendid  exam- 
ple of  these  boys,  they  would  preach 
the  gospel  while  they  are  upon  duty 
to  a  greater  number  than  if  they 
were  confined  to  a  single  regi- 
ment. 

If  I  might  be  spared  the  time, 
President  Smith,  I  would  like  to 
read  one  testimonial  or  two  of  our 


boys.  This  letter  was  written  by  a 
very  prominent  person  in  Cam- 
bridge, Massachusetts.  The  family 
are  keeping  a  Y.  M.  C.  A.  division, 
that  is,  one  of  the  Y.  M.  C.  A.'s  in 
which  the  Navy  boys  are  being 
taken  care  of ;  and  they  are  promi- 
nent to  the  extent  that  when  Sec- 
retaries McAdoo,  Baker  or  Daniels 
go  to  Boston  they  are  entertained 
by  these  estimable  people.  Two 
young  men  enlisted  in  the  Navy, 
their  homes  being  in  Brigham  City. 
I  hope  their  mother  is  here,  because 
this  leter  was  written  to  her,  but  a 
printed  copy  of  it  came  to  me  in 
New  York.  I  shall  read  only  ex- 
tracts. The  woman  writing  is  the 
good  wife  whose  husband  has  gone 
to  France : 

My  husband  and  I  loved  the  boys 
from  the  first,  but  as  they  have  lived 
with  us  they  have  grown  into  our 
hearts  until  now  we  feel  we  shall  have 
them  in  spirit  for  the  rest  of  our  lives. 
And  we  must  owe  so  much  of  it  to  you 
two  who  have  made  such  noble,  beau- 
tiful sons,  so  full  of  courage,  devo- 
tion, highmindedness.  You  mus:t  be 
proud  and  happy;  we  are.  Lou  was 
given  the  best  ship  on  the  list  this 
week  because  of  his  fine  work.  *  * 
*  *  *  He  has  grown  bio-ger  and 
heavier  and  is  a  superb  looking  fellow 
— the  dearest  combination  of  a  baby 
and  a  man  that  I  ever  saw.  He  is  a 
man  in  all  the  essentials  of  a  fine  char- 
acter and  a  dear  innocent  little  boy 
in  spirit.  Yesterday  my  Reginald  left 
for  France  for  eight  months'  service 
for  the  Y.  M.  C.  A.  with  our  troops. 
He  said  before  he  went  that  the  only 
good  thing  the  Kaiser  ever  did  was 
to  give  us  our  boys,  and  that  he  went 
away  much  happier  for  having  them 
here.  Fern  will  be  with  me  for  one 
week  more.  Certainly  wherever  he 
goes  he  will  do  the  most  splendid 
things.  He  is  a  young  crusader,  born 
to  fight  against  sin  and  injustice 
wherever  he  finds  them.  He  is  the 
noblest  young  fellow  T  have  ever 
known  and  we  both  love  him  with  our 
whole  hearts. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


61 


Now.  in  conclusion,  note  the  lan- 
guage : 

Dear  friends,  may  I  tell  you  that  I 
get  much  comfort  from  the  firm  faith 
that  both  these  children  are  sent  out 
directly  from  God's  hands  and  are 
very  directly  and  preciously  in  his 
care.  I  know  that  they  will  be  taken 
care  of  and  guided  at  every  step.  I 
look  ahead  for  them  with  the  most 
confident  heart,  but  I  wish  so  much 
you  could  see  them.  I  just  cannot  ex- 
press my  sympathy  for  you,  nor  my 
admiration  and  respect.  In  looking 
after  the  boys  I  keep  before  me  all 
the  time  the  thought  that  I  am  doing 
it  for  you  as  well  as  to  satisfy  my  own 
heart.  They  have  filled  the  place  of 
the  boys  I  have  lost  as  I  never  could 
have  believed  possible,  and  my  own 
love  helps  me  to  understand  yours. 

With  my  warmest  greetings  and 
sympathy,  affectionately  yours,  Louise 
Daley. 

P.  S. — I  want  to  write  to  you  from 
time  to  time  about  our  children  if  you 
will  let  me  share  them  with  you  that 
way. 

There  is  the  blending,  let  me  tell 
von,  of  patriotic  service  to  country 
"and  fidelity  to  the  gospel.  Such  are 
the  living  testimonies  our  soldier 
and  sailor  boys  bear  when  they  go 
into  the  country's  service.  God 
bless  us  with  like  testimony  and  like 
courage,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

An  instrumental  solo,  a  French 
ballad,  was  plaved  on  an  English 
horn  bv  Prof.  Kellersbere:er  with 
Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  at  the  p:ano. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 

(President  of  the  Northwestern  States 
Mission.) 

The  responsibility  which  was 
placed  upon  the  shoulders  of  the 
priesthood  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  a  tre- 
mendous one.  It  now  seems  greater 
as  we  look  back  over  the  years  that 


have  passed  since  the  organization 
of  this  Church,  and  since  that 
priesthood  was  given.  I  am  just 
beginning  to  see,  in  a  small  way, 
I  think,  some  part  of  the  respon- 
sibility which  I,  together  with  my 
brethren  and  our  fathers  and  grand- 
fathers, have  borne,  and  I  am  be- 
ginning to  feel  and  understand 
better  than  I  ever  have  heretofore, 
how  significant  and  how  tremen- 
dous was  the  mission  that  was  given 
to  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

It  wasn't  an  easy  task,  and  never 
will  be,  for  the  elders  of  this  Church 
to  carry  the  particular  message 
which  the  Lord  delivered  to  them. 
xA  good  many  of  us  have  felt  very 
much  like  Jonah  did,  who  was  sent 
to  warn  Nineveh.  .  We  have  trem- 
bled, we  have  feared  to  raise  up 
our  voices  on  the  street  corners  and 
elsewhere  and  deliver  the  message 
of  warning.  We  believe  the  prom- 
ise made  by  John  has  been  fulfilled 
when  he  said;,  that  in  due  time 
another  angel  should  fly  through 
the  midst  of  heaven,  having  the 
everlasting  gospel  to  preach  to  them 
that  dwell  upon  the  earth,  crying 
with  a  loud  voice,  'Tear  God  and 
give  glory  to  him,  for  the  hour  of 
his  judgment  is  come."  We  believe 
that  the  message  the  angel  delivered 
has  been  committed  into  the  hands 
of  the  elders  of  this  Church,  and 
it  has  been  a  message  of  warning  to 
the  children  of  men. 

God  our  Father  knew  what  was 
coming.  We  shall  not  charge  him 
with  the  responsibility  of  the  war 
nor  of  the  distress  among  the  na- 
tions, for  as  we  sow,  as  nations  as 
well  as  individuals,  so  shall  we  reap 
And  the  Lord  knowing  what  was 
coming,  though  he  were  God  him- 
self, he  could  not  avert  it.  The 
natural    consequences    of  sinning 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


or  wrongdoing,  men  must  reap. 
Knowing  that  he  sent  this  message 
to  warn  men  of  that  which  was  to 
come,  we  have  delivered  it;  but  we 
have  been  filled  with  fear  sometimes 
in  delivering  it,  because  we  have 
been  unwelcome.  But  we  remember 
that  those  servants  of  God  who 
were  given  the  commission  to 
warn  men  of  dangers,  and  troubles 
that  were  coming,  were  never  wel- 
come, whether  it  was  John  the 
Baptist,  who  stood  before  the  wick- 
ed king  and  told  him  of  his  sins  and 
suffered  to  lose  his  head  because  of 
it,  or  whether  it  was  the  Christ, 
who  because  he  chastised  men  and 
called  them  to  repentance  was  des- 
pised and  finally  put  to  death. 

It  is  not  an  easy  thing  to  meet 
men  and- women  and  tell  them  they 
are  wrong,  tell  them  they  are  in  sin 
and  they  must  repent,  for  we  don't 
get  a  very  glad  hand  from  the  ma- 
jority of  the  people  when  we  tell 
them  these  things.  And  so  some  of 
our  missionaries  have  trembled 
very  much  and  have  been  very  fear- 
ful to  meet  the  people  and  deliver 
the  message  which  the  Lord  com- 
mitted into  their  hands,  and  yet, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  when  I 
look  back  over  the  valiant  and 
faithful  way  in  which  the  elders  of 
this  Church  have  discharged  their 
duty  towards  the  nations  of  the 
earth,  and  under  the  command  of 
our  Father,  I  am  proud  to  be  an 
elder  in  this  Church  and  to  be  affili- 
ated with  a  band  of  men  who  have 
rid  their  skirts  of  the  blood  of  this 
generation.  From  the  day  that  Pres- 
ident Young,  President  Woodruff 
and  others  of  the  earlier  brethren, 
left  their  families  and  their  homes, 
as  they  were  just  driven  out  of 
Missouri,  and  went  on  that  un- 
known journey  across  the  water 


and  suffered  much  during  that 
period,  until  this  time,  thousands 
and  tens  of  thousands  of  the  elders 
of  this  Church  have  gone  without 
purse  and  without  scrip  delivering 
this  message.  Nothing  has  turned 
them  away  from  their  course. 
Whether  gold  had  been  discovered 
in  California  and  the  whole  world 
was  afire  with  desire,  the  elders  of 
the  Church  have  not  been  deterred 
from  the  delivery  of  their  message. 
They  have  acted  like  men  who  be- 
lieved they  had  a  real  mission. 

How  would  you  feel  if  you  knew 
above  this  city  or  any  other  city 
where  you  lived  there  was  a  great 
dam,  and  reservoir,  containing  an 
immense  quantity  of  water  and  you 
had  been  given  to  understand  that 
there  was  danger  and  that  at  an 
approximate  time  that  dam  would 
break  and  the  lives  of  the  people 
would  be  in  danger,  what  would 
you  do?  Sit  down  or  find  a  place 
of  safety  yourself  and  look  upon 
the  distress  that  should  come? 
No,  you  would  bestir  yourself,  you 
would  go  up  and  down  the  valley 
or  through  the  streets  and  warn 
men  and  women  to  flee  from  the 
danger  that  was  to  come,  and  if 
they  did  not  believe  you,  you  who 
knew  what  was  coming,  with  all 
your  heart  and  soul,  you  would  try 
to  impress  men  and  women  to 
escape  from  the  calamity  that  was 
coming.  How  then  should  men  act 
if  they  have  indeed  received  a  mes- 
sage like  the  elders  of  this  Church 
have  received? 

Recently  I  have  had  the  oppor- 
tunity to  read  carefully  and  ponder 
over  the  many  very  wonderful 
things  which  the  Lord  has  delivered 
to  this  Church,  in  the  book  of  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants.  You  do  not 
need  to  hunt  out  in  the  world 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


63 


among'  the  monks  of  the  past  ages 
some  supposed  prophecy,  coming 
from  some  hidden  or  obscure 
source.  Read  the  open  revelations  of 
the  Lord,  and  you  will  find  that 
there  everything  that  we  now  see 
and  witness  we  were  told  about  dis- 
tinctly many  years  ago.  The  warn- 
ing has  been  given  to  the  nations  of 
the  earth  and  they  were  called  upon 
to  escape  from  danger  and  I  say 
that  men  who  had  this  kind  of  com- 
mission could  not  in  honesty  do 
other  than  the  elders  of  this  Church 
have  done:  they  have  acted  as  if 
they  believed  what  they  said.  All 
honor  to  them. 

I  want  to  say  to  you,  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  when  the  warning 
comes,  always  from  the  very  be- 
ginning until  this  time,  there  has 
been  connected  with  that  warning 
the  means  of  escape.  God  provided 
a  means  of  escape  from  this  war. 
When  God  restored  the  everlasting 
gospel  through  his  prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  he  gave  the  invitation  to  the 
world,  in  connection  with  the  warn- 
ing of  judgments  that  were  to 
come,  the  invitation  that  provided 
the  way  of  escape.  It  may  seem  a 
very  bold  thing  for  me  to  stand 
here  and  say,  but  yet  I  say  it,  for  I 
have  a  living  testimony  that  it  is 
true:  that  if  Germany,  instead  of 
imprisoning  the  elders  we  sent  her, 
if  instead  of  banishing  them  she 
had  repented  of  her  sins  and 
accepted  the  Lord's  invitation, 
Germany  would  not  have  plunged 
the  world  into  this  war. 

Over  in  the  cantonment,  at  Amer- 
ican Lake,  where  all  our  drafted 
boys  from  this  intermountain  coun- 
try first  went,  we  held  a  conference 
in  connection  with  brother  George 
Albert  Smith  and  President  Mc- 
Murrin  and  a  great  many  of  those 


boys  were  present.  We  heard  the 
testimony  of  brethren  who  had  been 
engaged  in  the  missionary  work 
when  the  war  broke  out.  They 
stood  up,  six  and  eight  and  ten  of 
them  at  a  time,  eager  to  bear  tes- 
timony— men  who  were  in  Ger- 
many, some  of  them  had  been  ban- 
ished. They  saw  the  mobilization 
of  the  German  army.  They  had 
been  preaching  wherever  they 
could,  warning  Germany  of  the 
dangers  that  were  to  come.  There 
were  men  who  were  in  Liege  who 
fled  before  the  oncoming  Germans. 
There  were  men  in  France  and  all 
those  nations,  who  now  stood  up  in 
the  uniforms  of  the  United  States. 
They  were  witnesses  that  they  had 
delivered  to  those  nations  the  means 
of  escape. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am 
just  as  anxious  as  any  man  that 
lives  to  see  established  the  princi- 
ples of  freedom  and  liberty  for 
which  we  fight,  and  I  think  we 
ought  to  fight  for  them.  I  feel  that 
President  Smith's  words  found  echo 
in  the  heart  of  every  true  Latter-day 
Saint.  With  every  bone  and  fibre  we 
believe  in  this  country  and  its  insti- 
tutions and  we  want  to  see  America 
and  America's  principles  succeed, 
but  let  me  say  to  you,  brethren  and 
sisters,  there  shall  be  something  else 
necessary,  if  we  shall  find  peace  on 
earth  and  good  will  to  men,  in  ad- 
dition to  the  establishment  of  the 
principles  of  righteousness  in  politi- 
cal government  and  freedom  ;  let  me 
tell  you  that  the  nations  that  have 
passed  the  way  of  all  the  earth  did 
not  come  to  their  destruction  be- 
cause their  governments  were  par- 
ticularly bad,but  they  came  to  wreck 
and  ruin  because  they  were  wicked 
and  they  sinned  and  broke  the  law 


64  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


of  God.  The  most  perfect  law  of 
political  liberty  will  never  save  men 
and  women  except  they  shall  obey 
the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
in  connection  with  the  principles  of 
righteousness  in  political  govern- 
ment. I  want  to  say  to  you  that 
while  I  shall  rejoice  in  seeing  the 
standards  of  liberty  and  freedom 
carried  forward  among  the  nations 
of  the  earth,  I  see  in  that  only  the 
preparatory  way,  and  there  must 
necessarily  follow  that  which  is  in- 
deed the  fundamental  of  peace,  the 
go.spel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  do 
rejoice  to  know  that  we  have  here 
those  men  who  are  inspired  to  tell 
us  what  we  shall  do.    When  the 
nations  of  the  earth  do  not  accept 
the  invitation  which  was  given,  pro- 
viding the  means  of  escape,  then 
they  must  take  the  consequences ; 
but  I  thank  the  Lord  that  there  are 
in  the  hearts  of  the  majority  of  the 
civilized  nations  of  the  earth  a  will- 
ingness to  defend  the  principles 
of    righteousness    in  government. 
Thank  God  for  that,  and  for  their 
stand ;  and  there  is  nothing  else  for 
us  to  do  than  to  co-operate  with 
them  in  defending  the  glorious  prin- 
ciples of  liberty  which  they  have 
espoused  and  which  are  ours.  O 
how  my  heart  rejoices  to  know  that 
instead  of  a-  little  band  fighting  as 
our  forefathers  fought  for  those 
very  principles  in  the  establishment 
of  this  country,  we  have  now  allied 
with  this  the  migthy  nations  of  the 
earth;  and  this  is  the  day  of  the 
triumph  of  the  truth,  when  political 
liberty  shall  come ! 

But  O,  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
want  to  say  to  you  that  the  Lord 
does  not  love  a  wicked  American 
any  better  than  he  loves  a  wicked 
German.    I  want  to  say  to  you  tlfiat 


my  heart  is  touched  when  I  look 
at  my  America.  I  love  America, 
but  I  know  that  my  America  shall 
not  succeed,  nor  shall  she  survive, 
except  by  and  through  her  own 
humility  and  repentence  and  turning 
away  from  sin ! 

I  have  had  the  opportunity  to  talk 
to  thousands  of  boys  in  the  canton- 
ments, and  this  has  been  my  plea  to 
them  :  You  are  entitled  to  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord.  Your  cause  is 
just ;  and  that  it  shall  succeed  means 
that  you  must  humble  yourselves, 
cease  to  take  the  name  of  God  in 
vain,  keep  yourselves  morally  clean, 
and  you  will  have  a  power  and  a 
strength  that  no  soldiers  have  ever 
experienced  who  have  gone  into  the 
battle. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  what  shall 
we  .do,  we  who  have  been  called 
here — one  of  a  city  and  two  of  a 
family,  away  from  these  troubles? 
When  the  Lord  knew  that  the  na- 
tions would  not  accept  the  invita- 
tion that  was  given,  he  called  our 
fathers  out  from  them.  What  for? 
To  save  us?  Yes,  but  for  some- 
thing else  than  to  save  us,  just  for 
ourselves.  He  has  committed  into 
our  hands  the  most  precious  and 
sacred  things  in  all  the  world  to 
hold  the  nations  of  the  earth. 

In  British  Columbia  we  have  a 
conference.  We  have  had  soldiers 
go  out  from  that  section,  you  know, 
for  three  years  now,  and  this  is 
what  I  witnessed :  when  these  boys 
left  their  homes  and  got  into  the 
front  of  the  battle,  you  know  the 
death  rate  was  very  high  in  the  be- 
ginning of  the  struggle.  Thev  fell 
on  the  right  and  on  the  left  and 
when  the  casualty  lists  appeared 
each  morning  there  were  thousands 
of  fathers  and  mothers  who  began 
to  pray  who  never  prayed  before 


ELDER  GERMAN  E.  ELLSWORTH 


65 


in  their  lives.  When  they  learned 
that  their  boys  were  prisoners  or 
lying  wounded  in  the  hospitals,  the 
spirit  of  humility  and  repentance 
came.  In  the  last  year  we  have  had 
an  increase  in  our  baptisms  in  that 
conference.  There  have  been  ten 
times  as  many  baptisms  in  that  con- 
ference, in  the  last  year,  as  we  have 
'had  in  any  preceding-  year  with  the 
same  number  of  missionaries.  When 
I  saw  it,  I  wondered  if  the  same 
good  blessings  should  not,  in  God's 
providence,  come  to  all  this  goodly 
land.  I  see  it  coming.  The  by-pro- 
ducts of  this  war  shall  be  the  saving 
of  our  own  blessed  America,  for 
her  salvation,  her  perpetuity,  her  be- 
ing favored  of  God,  .depends  not 
only  upon  the  money  that  we  put 
up,  and  upon  the  boys  we  send,  but 
upon  the  righteousness  of  our  own 
lives ! 

O  my  America,  humble  yourself, 
and  turn  unto  God,  your  Father, 
and  keep  his  commandments,  and  he 
will  stand  by  you  in  the  battle  for 
right. 

That  is  my  testimony ;  and  let  us 
listen  to  the  voice  of  these  servants 
of  God.  You  do  not  need  to  go 
anywhere  else,  all  that  the  Lord 
wants  us  to  know  he  will  give.  I. 
have  that  confidence.  He  has  in- 
spired these  brethren.  Let  us  fol- 
low their  leadership,  and  listen  to 
their  warning  voices.  O  that  more 
of  us  had  believed  the  message 
which  President  Young  gave  us 
concerning  home  industry  and  the 
things  President  Smith  has  referred 
to.  O  that  we  had  believed  it  with 
all  our  hearts,  and  practiced  it.  We 
would  have  been  better. 

We  stand  in  the  most  favored 
position  of  the  nations  of  the  earth. 
We  .shall  sit  at  the  first  table  always, 
but  we  will  share  with  others.  God 


has  thus  favored  us  that  we  stand  in 
the  best  place  in  all  the  earth,  but 
let  us  improve  that  place  and  that 
opportunity,  and  let  us  conserve  the 
things  that  God  has  given  us ;  and 
when  the  war  is  over  and  when  the 
wounds  need  healing,  behold  here 
is  the  balm  that-  shall  heal  the 
wounds  of  the  nations !  God  help 
us  conserve  it,  prepare  ourselves  to 
be  ministers  in  very  deed,  in  the 
calling  to  which  we  have  been  as- 
signed, that  we  may  be  faithful  and 
not  disappoint  him,  and  that  we  may 
be  triumphant  in  the  struggle  for 
eternal  and  everlasting  peace,  which 
may  God  grant,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  G.  E.  ELLSWORTH. 

(President    of   the    Northern  ^States 
Mission.) 

In  the  National  Congress  of  De- 
fense, held  in  the  Midnah  Temple, 
Chicago,  about  six  weeks  ago,  I  lis- 
tened to  one  Hammerlin,  a  peasant 
from  Bohemia,  who  said  that  he 
came  to  this  country  thirty-seven 
years  ago.  His  first  work  here 
was  to  drive  a  mule  in  a  coal  mine, 
but,  he  said,  "today  I  am  president 
of  the  foreign  newspapers  of  Amer- 
ica, and  I  am  occupying  this  po- 
sition together  with  the  great  and 
the  educated  men  of  this  Nation,  in 
the  second  city  in  the  greatest  coun- 
try of  the  world.  What  other  nation 
under  heaven,"  he  continued,  "could 
have  given  me  such  a  glorious  op- 
portunity?" 

When  I  faced  this  audience,  and 
as  I  sat  in  my  seat  and  listened  to 
the  testimonies  of  those  who  have 
occupied  the  pulpit,  I  have  said  in 
my  heart :  What  people  or  what 
organization  under  (heaven  fcould 
give  men  such  a  glorious  opportu- 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


nity  as  that  which  we  enjoy?  One 
of  a  city  and  two  of  a  family  from 
every  nation  in  the  earth,  peasant 
and  otherwise,  have  been  drawn 
together  in  this  organization  and 
have  been  given  opportunities  the 
like  of  which  could  not  have  been 
found  in  any  other  place  in  the 
world. 

Continuing,  our  Bohemian  said : 
"My  home  in  Bohemia,  which  is 
seven  hundred  years  old,  had  been 
destroyed  twice  during  this  great 
war.  It  was  destroyed  first  by  the 
Russians  and  next  by  the  Germans, 
but  I  am  happy  to  stand  here  to- 
day and  tell  you  that  no  matter  if 
it  is  destroyed  and  all  other  homes 
in  my  beloved  native  land,  the  day 
will  come  when  peace  shall  be  es- 
tablished in  the  earth,  and  democ- 
racy rule  all  people;  "for,"  said  he, 
in  his  broken  language,  "Nick  has 
gone  and  Will  vill  go."  So  I  say, 
brethren  and  sisters,  if  Nick  has 
gone,  with  reference  to  the  Rus- 
sian government,  and  Will  of  Ger- 
many will  go,  so  also,  in  the  end, 
Old  Nick  will  go,  and  truth  and 
righteousness  will  reign  in  the 
earth. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  has  been  estab- 
lished in  this  day  that  all  mankind 
who  will  hear  and  obey  the  voice 
of  the  Lord  might  have  an  equal 
opportunity,  but  it  seems  to  me,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  our  ex- 
tremity has  been  God's  opportunity 
to  bless  us  and  to  lead  us  into  the 
straight  and  narrow  way.  I  am  re- 
minded of  the  struggle  with  the 
powers  of  darkness  that  the  Proph- 
et Joseph  Smith  had  in  the  begin- 
ning when  he  asked  the  Lord  for 
light  and  knowledge  concerning 
which  way  he  should  go ;  I  am  like- 
wise reminded  of  his   asking  the 


Father  concerning  baptism,  which 
was  answered  by  the  coming  of 
John  the  Baptist,  under  whose  di- 
rection Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Cowdery  were  baptized.  Again, 
when  divine  assistance  was  needed, 
came  the  glorious  visit  of  Peter, 
James  and  John,  who  bestowed  up- 
on them  the  holy  Priesthood  and 
the  right  to  officiate  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord  in  behalf  of  all  the  chil- 
dren of  men  in  the  earth. 

From  the  very  beginning  of  the 
Church,  it  seems  to  me  that  when 
we  have  gone  either  as  individuals 
or  as  a  Church  to  our  very  limit, 
divine  Providence  has  stepped  in 
and  rendered  assistance,  until  we 
have  grown  to  understand  our  de- 
pendence upon  the  Lord  and  his 
great  love  and  mercy  for  his  chil- 
dren. I  am  reminded  of  the  time 
when  I  stood  in  the  road,  having 
gone  to  the  limit  of  my  strength  in 
searching  for  the  honest  in  heart 
who  would  receive  me  into  their 
homes  as  a  messenger  of  light,  my 
eyes  were  opened,  and  I  bear  wit- 
ness that  God's  promises  were  ful- 
filled with  reference  to  his  mission- 
aries :  that  he  sends  his  angels  be- 
fore their  face  to  bear  them  up  and 
to  prepare  the  hearts  of  the  people 
to  receive  them.  The  testimony  of 
all  the  elders  in  the  mission  field 
is  that  when  they  have  gone  to  their 
limit,  and  turned  to  God  our  Father 
he  has  never  forsaken  them,  but 
has  opened  the  way,  leaving  im- 
pressed upon  their  hearts  the  testi- 
mony that  he  is  willing  to  come  to 
the  assistance  of  those  who  dili- 
gently serve  him..  So  in  the  his- 
tory of  this  great  Nation — it  seems 
to  me  that  man's  limit  has  been 
God's  opportunity  to  come  in  and 
guide  the  ship  of  state.  You  re- 
member Christopher  Columbus,  as 


ELDER  GERMAN  E.  ELLSWORTH  67 


he  lay  bound  in  the  bottom  of  his 
ship,  pleaded  with  his  sailors  to  go 
on  at  least  three  days  before  they 
should  throw  him  overboard  and 
start  back  to  Spain.  You  remember 
our  Pilgrim  Fathers  were  about  to 
sail   back '  from   the  rock-bound 
shores  of  New  England,  when  time- 
ly and  needed  assistance  came.  You 
remember,  too,  Washington  at  Val- 
ley Forge,  his  soldiers  barefooted, 
his  sick  men  had  no  medicine,  and 
the  well  had  no  food,  sent  his  last 
appeal  to  our  ministers  in  France 
that  they  must  come  to  his  assistance 
now,  that  anything  they  would  do 
in  the  future  would  be  unavailing; 
and  how  this  Nation,  this  experi- 
ment in  government,  was  saved  in 
the  seeming  very  last  hours  by  the 
coming  of  men  and  money  from 
France.    Again,  the  spirit  of  the 
Lord  was  upon  those  who  gathered 
to   form   the   constitution   of  the 
United  States  that  liberty  might  not 
be  banished  from  the  earth,  that 
the  divine  right  that  God  our  Fath- 
er gave  to  his  children  before  the 
world  was  might  be  securely  estab- 
lished in  the  last  days. 

This  Government  has  grown  and 
increased  in  the  earth,  in  strength, 
in  knowledge,  in  wisdom  and  in 
toleration  for  their  fellow  men. 
Other  nations  of  the  earth  have 
partaken  freely  of  the  spirit  of  lib- 
erty planted  in  this  goodly  land. 
These  liberty-loving  nations  have 
now  banded  themselves  together  in 
a  mighty  struggle  to  extend  and 
perpetuate  this  sacred  heritage.  If 
we  go  to  the  limit  of  our  ability  and 
strength  trusting  in  the  Lord  we 
cannot  fail,  for  it  seems  that  God 
is  using  these  nations  who  have 
been  the  most  liberal  with  respect 
to  government,  that  the  rest  of  the 
world  might  partake  of  that  which 


we  have  enjoyed  in  such  a  full 
measure ;  so  in  our  extreme  hour 
heaven  will  not  forsake  us. 

As  citizens  of  this  great  gov- 
ernment, we  have  not  only  enjoyed 
the  liberties  'that  have  been  im- 
planted in  this  land  of  Zion,  but  as 
Latter-day  Saints  who  have  heard 
the  gospel  we  have  enjoyed  another 
glorious  blessing,  even  the  liberty 
and  light  of  truth  that  has  pointed 
the  way  back  in  to  the  presence  of 
God  our  father.  From  Norway 
and  Sweden  and  Denmark,  from 
the  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain  and  the  countries  of  Ger- 
many and  Holland,  and  all  Chris- 
tian nations  of  the  world  we  have 
come  to  this  land  in  response  to 
the  sound  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ ;  and  in  our  coming  we  have 
sung : 

"O  Babylon,  O  Babylon, 
We  bid  thee  farewell, 

We're  going  to  the  mountains 
Of  Ephraim  to  dwell." 

How  could  a  people,  no  matter 
what  the  nation,  be  anything  but 
loyal  and  true  who  feel,  who  hold 
such  views  ? 

In  the  Northern  States  mission 
we  have  today  quite  a  population 
of  German  people.  At  the  out- 
break of  this  war  they  thought  I 
was  hard  on  them  and  their  nation 
as  to  the  responsibility  for  and  the 
outcome  of  this  war,  but  Americans 
of  German  birth  who  have  accepted 
the  gospel  should  be  and  are  true 
and  loyal  to  this  nation,  for  it  is  the 
land  of  Zion  to  them.  About  three 
weeks  ago,  in  Milwaukee,  during 
my  sermon,  the  whole  audience 
breathed  amen  and  amen  with  a 
spirit  of  love  and  devotion  to  the 
principles  of  this  government  and 
to  the  principles  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  that  we  have  never 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


felt  before.  They  are  beginning 
to  reconcile  themselves '  to  the  fact 
that  this  great  war  is  the  chasten- 
ing hand  of  God  upon  those  who 
have  refused  the  light  of  the  gospel 
and  the  liberties  of  mankind.  Why, 
I  told  them  that  if  they  had  not 
found  sufficient  reasons  in  this  gov- 
ernment and  land  of  ours  to  rejoice 
and  praise  the  Lord  and  be  glad 
because  they  are  here,  surely  in  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  they  ought 
and  find  sufficient  to  make  them 
sing  praises  to  the  God  of  heaven. 
Why?  Because  they  had  come  out 
of  the  land  of  oppression  in  re- 
sponse to  the  call  of  light  and  truth 
and  liberty  of  the  gospel.  They 
had  all  received  a  knowledge  from 
the  Lord  that  this  is  the  land  of 
Zion,  a  land  of  freedom,  a  land 
choice  above  all  other  lands. 

Latter-day  Saints  in  Germany,  in 
Holland,  in  Switzerland,  or  in  any 
other  country  in  the  world,  no  mat- 
ter whether  they  have  ever  been 
here  or  not,  feel  in  their  .hearts  that 
this  is  the  land  of  Zion  and  that 
God  has  prepared  this  nation  in  or- 
der that  he  might  establish  his  king- 
dom in  the  earth,  and  gather  the 
honest  in  heart  from  all  nations. 
The  members  of  this  Church  now 
living  in  Germany  ought  to  feel  in 
their  hearts  a  spirit  of  loyalty  and 
fidelity  to  this  nation  because  they 
have  been  taught  that  it  has  been 
established  by  God.  Even  though 
they  may  be  numbered  soldiers  in 
Germany,  fighting  under  the  mar- 
shaled power  of  their  Kaiser,  yet  I 
feel  sure  their  hearts  beat  in  sym- 
pathy for  the  land  of  Zion.  With 
my  brethren  before  me,  I  feel  that 
God  our  father  is  at  the  helm,  and 
while  this  may  be  a  dark  hour  in 
our  history,  the  Lord  will  come  to 
our  rescue  in  the  end.    Will  will 


follow  Nick,  and  after  Nick  and 
Will  and  all  others  who  have 
usurped  the  right  of  man  to  be  free 
and  govern  himself,  then  also  the 
old  Nick  himself  will  go. 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, in  my  testimony  of  this  gospel. 
I  rejoice  to  bear  witness  to  you 
that  I  know  that  God  our  Father 
lives.  I  know  that  he  does  send  his 
messengers  before  the  face  of  the 
missionaries  and  lead  them  to  the 
doors  of  the  honest  in  heart,  and  in 
the  way  of  those  who  are  prepared 
to  receive  them.  I  am  sure  that 
he  will  go  before  the  face  of  all 
the  sons  of  the  Allied  nations  of  the 
world  and  grant  that  victory  may 
perch  upon  their  banners.  While 
we  may  be  scourged  and  while  we 
may  be  called  upon  to  offer  a  sacri- 
fice for  these  great  and  glorious 
blessings  we  are  seeking,  neverthe- 
less in  the  end  and  in  our  extrem- 
ity victory  shall  be  ours. 

Some  of  your  sons  in  Camp 
Dodge,  Iowa,  and  in  Camp  Grant, 
Illinois,  and  in  one  or  two  other 
camps  I  have  visited,  have  said  to 
me:  Brother  Ellsworth,  I  feel,  O 
so  lonesome.  I  would  sooner  be  a 
private  with  the  Utah  boys  than  an 
officer  here  alone,  away  from  my 
people.  I  have  said  to  them  inva- 
riably :  "My  good  brethren,  it  may 
be  a  little  lonesome,  but  I  feel  ab- 
solutely sure  that  it  is  better  that 
you  should  be  here  alone  as  an  offi- 
cer or  even  as  a  private,  providing 
you  will  live  your  religion  and  set 
the  example  which  you  should  set 
before  your  fellow  men;  for  you 
have  been  called,  and  the  majority 
of  you  have  been  ordained  of  God 
that  you  might  minister  in  the 
things  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  I 
am  sure  that  the  way  will  be  open- 
ed for  you  not  only  "to  be  a  soldier 


ELDER  GERMAN  E.  ELLSWORTH. 


69 


but  to  be  a  comfort  to  your  com- 
rades. The  way  will  be  opened  for 
you  to  strengthen  them  and  to  offer 
courage  to  them,  and  in  the  end, 
when  peace  shall  be  established, 
what  a  wonderful  opening  there 
will  ibe  for  the  soldiers  from  among 
the  Latter-day  Saints  to  go  to  the 
soldiers  of  every  state  and  every 
city  in  this  glorious  land  of  ours. 
You  will  not  find  a  man  among  the 
soldiers  of  Illinois  who  will  ever 
permit  any  one  to  say  anything 
against  Utah  or  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  if  they  have  fought  side  by 
side  or  under  the  leadership  of  a 
'Mormon'  officer.  What  is  true 
of  Illinois  may  be  true  of  every 
other  state  in  this  union,  and  every 
country  in  the  world ;  for  after  this 
great  war  it  shall  not  be :  I  am  a 
citizen  of  this  state  or  that  state  or 
the  other  state,  but  I  am  a  citizen 
of  America  or  a  citizen  of  the 
world."  So,  I  feel  that  though  it 
may  be  a  lonesome,  time  for  some 
of  our  boys,  yet  if  they  live  their 
religion,  if  they  keep  the  command- 
ments of  God  and  keep  themselves 
clean  and  unspotted  from  the  world 
and  offer  themselves  as  a  willing 
sacrifice,  it  shall  be  as  the  leaven 
sent  out  into  the  world  to  leaven 
the  lump.  Our  missionaries  who 
are  now  preaching  the  gospel 
breathe  the  spirit  of  war,  and  some- 
times breathe  a  desire  to  go  out 
and  fight  that  peace  might  be  hast- 
ened in  the  earth.  They  are  given 
five  days  in  which  to  report  for  mil- 
itary service  after  finishing  in  the 
mission  field.  Some  have  even  re- 
ported a  month  before  being  re- 
leased in  order  to  be  ready  for  a 
service  that  must  be  that  the  gospel 
principles  might  be  spread  abroad. 

The  Lord  bless  our  leaders,  and 
may  God  our  Father  touch  our 
Prophet  with  his  finger,  as  it  were, 


and  heal  him  from  his  infirmities ; 
that  we  may  hear  his  glorious  voice 
and  his  powerful  testimony  yet 
many  years.  When  I  heard  that 
he  was  not  well  it  seemed  to  me 
that  my  very  own  had  been  strick- 
en. So  I  pray,  with  all  Zion,  that 
God  will  bless  him ;  that  he  will 
bless  us  all ;  that  we  may  keep 
clean  and  pure  and  do  our  full  part 
that  we  may  be  worthy  of  the  glor- 
ious opportunities  that  our  Church 
and  our  Nation  afford,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

A  sacred  solo,  entitled,  "Sunshine 
and  Rain,"  was  sung  by  Edna  Gott- 
berg. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  the  auditors '  report 
which  was  unanimously  approved ; 
the  names  of  the  General  Author- 
ities of  the  Church  which  were 
unanimously  voted  upon  and  sus- 
tained as  follows,  including  also  the 
Trustees  of  the  Brigham  Young 
University : 

AUDITORS'  REPORT 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  stated : 
"The  auditors  have  made  a  very 
voluminous  report.  This  is  only  a 
brief  one.  The  entire  report  is  on 
file  With  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church." 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 
April  5,  1918. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  Anthon  H.  Lund, 
C.  W .  Penrose,  First  Presidency 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 
Dear  Brethren  :    We  the  un- 
dersigned Auditing  Committee  of 
the  Church  beg  leave  to  report  that, 
having  examined  the  books  and  ac- 
counts of  the   Presiding  Bishop's 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Office,  as  well  as  those  of  the  Trus- 
tee-in-Trust,  we  have  found  them 
in  excellent  shape  and  the  various 
items  of  receipts  and  expenditures 
clearly  expressed  and  correctly  en- 
tered in  the  books.  And  it  is  our 
pleasure  to  say  that  the  methods  of 
bookkeeping"  employed  meet  with 
our  approval.  We  also  desire  to 
commend  the  voluminous,  interest- 
ing-, and  useful  collection  of  vital 
and  other  statistics  of  the  Church 
by  the  Presiding  Bishop's  Office. 
The  value  of  these  statistics  can 
scarcely  be  estimated. 

Very  truly,  your  brethren, 
W.  W.  Riter, 
John  C.  Cutler, 
Henry  H.  Rolapp, 
Heber  Scowcroft, 
Peter  G.  Johnston. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  Prophet, 
Seer  and  Revelator  and  President 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  First  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency. 

Charles  W.  Penrose,  as  Second 
Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

Heber  J.  Grant,  as  President  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles. 

As  members  of  the  Council  of 
Twelve  Apostles :  Heber  J.  Grant, 
Rudger  Clawson,  Reed  Smoot, 
George  Albert  Smith,  George  F. 
Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David 
O.  McKay,  Anthony  W.  Ivins, 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr.,  James  E.  Tal- 
mage,  Stephen  L.  Richards  and 
Richard  R.  Lyman. 

Hyrum  G.  Smith,  as  Presiding 
Patriarch  of  the  Church. 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Pres- 
idency, the  Twelve  Apostles  and 


Patriarch,  as  Prophets,  Seers  and 
Revelators. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  Sev- 
enty :  Seymour  B.  Young,  Brigham 
H.  Roberts,  Jonathan  G.  Kimball, 
Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  Mc- 
Murrin,  Charles  H.  Hart  and  Levi 
Edgar  Young. 

Charles  W.  Nibley,  as  Presiding 
Bishop,  with  Orrin  P.  Miller  and 
David  A.  Smith  as  his  First  and 
Second  Counselors. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  Trustee-in- 
Trust  for  the  body  of  religious 
worshipers  known  as  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  Church  His- 
torian and  General  Church  Re- 
corder. 

Andrew  Jenson,  Brigham  H. 
Roberts,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr.,  and 
August  William  Lund,  Assistant 
Historians. 

As  members  of  the  General 
Church  Board  of  Education  :  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  Willard  Young,  Anthon 
H.  Lund,  George  H.  Brimhall,  Rud- 
ger Clawson,  Charles  W.  Penrose, 
Horace  H.  Cummings,  Orson  F. 
Whitney  and  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr. 

Arthur  Winter,  as  Secretary  and 
Treasurer  to  the  General  Church 
Board  of  Education. 

Horace  H.  Cummings,  General 
Superintendent  of  Church  Schools. 

Board  of  Examiners  for  Church 
Schools :  Horace  H.  Cumming-s, 
Chairman ;  George  H.  Brimhall,  C. 
N.  Jensen  and  Guy  C.  Wilson. 

Auditing  Committee :  William 
W.  Riter,  Henry  H.  Rolapp,  John 
C.  Cutler,  Heber  Scowcroft  and 
Peter  G.  Johnston. 

Tabernacle  Choir :  Anthony  C. 
Lund,  Conductor;  Horace  S.  En- 
sign and  B.  Cecil  Gates,  Assistant 
Conductors  ;  John  J.  McClellan,  Or- 
ganist;  Edward  P.  Kimball  and 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES. 


71 


Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Assistant  Organ- 
ists ;  George  C.  Smith,  Secretary 
and  Treasurer ;  and  all  the  Mem- 
bers 

Edward  H.  Anderson,  Clerk  of 
the  Conference. 

TRUSTEES  BRIGHAM  YOUNG 
UNIVERSITY 

The  Articles  of  Incorporation  of 
the  Brig-ham  Young  University  re- 
quires that  the  Trustees  of  said  in- 
stitution shall  be  presented  to  the 
General  Conference  of  the  Church 
triennially,  and,  in  acordance  with 
that  requirement,  we  present  the 


following  named  persons  as  Trus- 
tees of  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity: Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jesse 
Knight,  Wilson  H.  Dusenberry, 
Susa  Young  Gates,  Reed  Smoot, 
Lafayette  Holbrook,  Stephen  L. 
Chipman,  Richard  W.  Young, 
Joseph  R.  Murdock,  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  Jr.,  Joseph  Reece,  Zina  Y. 
Card. 

The  Relief  Society  choir,  Lizzie 
Thomas  Edward,  conductor,  sang: 
"Lead,  Kindly  Light." 

The  closing  prayer  was  pro- 
nounced by  Elder  E.  Wesley  Smith, 
and  conference  adjourned  until  10 
o'clock  Sunday  morning. 


THIRD  DAY. 


Conference  continued  in  the  Tab- 
ernacle, Sunday,  April  7,  1918,  10 
o'clock  a.  m.,  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  presiding'. 

The  great  assembly  \yas  called  to 
order  by  President  Joseph  F.  Smith 
who  gave  notice  of  the  holding  of 
an  overflow  meeting  in  the  Assem- 
bly Hall,  with  Elder  Joseph  W.  Mc- 
Murrin,  of  the  First  Council  of  Sev- 
enty, presiding;  and  an  open  air 
meeting  near  the  Bureau  of  Infor- 
mation, the  weather  permitting, 
with  Elder  Rulon  S.  Wells,  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy,  presiding. 
Both  these  meetings  were  necessary 
to  accommodate  people  who  could 
not  find  room  in  the  overcrowded 
Tabernacle  where  every  seat  and  all 
available  standing  room  was  occu- 
pied. 

The  hymn,  "Hail  to  the  bright- 
ness of  Zion's  glad  morning,"  was 
sung  by  the  choir  and  congregation. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  President 
1  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley,  of  the  Deseret 
stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn : 
"Though  in  the  outward  church  be- 
low." 

ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 

Why  the  Gospel  is  preached — A  gath- 
ering dispensation — The  world's  op- 
position— God  will  not  be  thwarted 
— The  parable  of  the  Feast — A  com- 
pelling situation — Testimonies,  then 
judgments — The  Great  War — Amer- 
ica and  her  Allies  preparing  the  way 
for  the  spread  of  truth  and  freedom. 

"Is  true  freedom  but  to  break 
Fetters  for  our  own  dear  sake, 
And,  with  leathern  hearts,  forget 
That  we  owe  mankind  a  debt? 


No!   true  freedom  is  to  share 
All  the  chains  our  brothers  wear, 
Arid,  With  heart  and  hand,  to  be 
Earnest  to  -make  others  tree! 

"They  are  slaves  who  fear  to  speak 
For  the  fallen. and  the  weak; 
They  are  slaves  who  will  not  choose 
Hatred,  scoffing  and  abuse, 
Rather  than  in  silence  shrink 
From  the  truth  they  needs  must  think; 
They  are  slaves  who  dare  not  be 
Tn  the  right  with  two  or  three." 

"Then  to  side  with  Truth  is  noble 

when  we  share  her  wretched  crust, 
Ere  her  cause  bring  fame  and  profit, 

and  'tis  prosperous  to  be  just; 
Then  it  is  the  brave  man  chooses, 

while  the  coward  stands  aside, 
Doubting  in  his  abject  spirit,  till  his 

Lord  is  crucified, 
And  the  multitude  make  virtue  of  the 

faith  they  had  denied." 

I  have  quoted  these  lines  of  the 
poet  in  order  to  create  an  atmos- 
phere for  some  reflections  that  have 
been  running  through  my  mind 
since  the  beginning  of  this  confer- 
ence ;  and  perhaps  I  can  best  ap- 
proach my  subject  proper  by  relat- 
ing two  little  incidents  of  my  per- 
sonal experience. 

Not  long  ago  I  stood  beside  the 
bier  of  an  aged  woman,  a  Latter- 
day  Saint,  speaking  at  her  funeral. 
One  of  the  brethren  then  present 
had  read  to  the  congregation  a 
sketch  of  this  good  woman's  life. 
She  was  as  old  as  the  Church  itself, 
lacking  two  months,  and  was  born, 
if  I  remember  aright,  in  far  away 
Gloucestershire,  England.  At  nine- 
teen she  heard  the  gospel  preached 
by  an  elder  of  the  Church,  and  her 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 


73 


.sympathy  was  at  once  enlisted.  She 
believed  the  message  that  he 
brought  and  straightway  offered 
herself  for  baptism.  Her  family 
were  much  opposed  to  this  step,  and 
it  was  over  the  protest  of  her  father 
and  mother,  brothers  and  sisters 
that  she  espoused  the  unpopular 
cause,  the  religion  of  a  people  hated 
the  world  over.  So  intense  was  the 
prejudice  that  she  had  to  leave  home 
and  support  herself  by  the  labor  of 
her  hands ;  but  she  had  the  courage 
of  her  convictions  and  her  faith  did 
not  fail.  Ten  years  later  she  emi- 
grated to  America  and  came  on  to 
the  Rocky  Mountains,  but  not  be- 
fore her  heroic  example  had  had  its 
effect  upon  those  around  her.*  Her 
parents,  brothers  and  sisters  had  all 
followed  her  into  the  Church.  She 
had  become  the-  savior  of  her 
father's  house ;  this  little  slip  of  a 
•girl  aged  only  nineteen. 

I  contrast  this  with  another  inci- 
dent, one  that  happened  many  years 
ago  when  I  was  a  young  mission- 
ary in  the  State  of  Ohio.  In  the 
city  of  Cleveland  I  formed  the  ac- 
quaintance of  a  very  estimable  lady, 
the  widow  of  a  Union  officer  who 
had  fallen  in  battle.  She  loved  her 
dead  husband  devotedly;  she  re- 
vered his  memory,  and  was  much 
taken  up  with  the  doctrines  that  I 
presented  to  her,  particularly  those 
pertaining  to  salvation  for  the  dead 
and  to  eternal  marriage,  both  in 
person  and  by  proxy,  marriage  for 
all  eternity.  She  said,  "Do  you 
mean  to  tell  me  that  if  I  become  a 
Latter-day  Saint  I  can  be  sealed  to 
my  departed  husband  and  be  his 
wife  hereafter?"  I  replied,  "I  do 
mean  that  very  thing,  for  it  is  the 
truth."  She  exclaimed  almost  in 
rapture,  "I  never  heard  anything  so 
beautiful;  and  if  you  will  convince 


me  that  it  is  indeed  true,  I  will  be 
baptized  if  it  be  in  a  lake  of  living 
fire."  I  answered,  "I  cannot  con- 
vince you,  1)  am  only  a  bearer  of 
God's  message.  But  he  can  con- 
vince you  as  he  has  convinced  me, 
and  I  will  make  you  this  promise: 
If  you  will  humble  yourself  and 
ask  the  Lord,  he  will  grant  you  a 
testimony  that  that  is  a  true  prin- 
ciple."   She  said,  "I  will  ask  him." 

Not  long  afterward  she  wrote  in- 
forming me  that  God  had  answered 
her  prayer,  and  that  she  was  ready 
to  be  baptized.  I  was  overjoyed. 
There  is  no  joy  that  can  compare 
with  that  of  a  missionary  who  has 
been  made  the  instrument  for  the 
salvation  of  a  soul.  I  wrote  at 
once  that  I  would  make  up  a  little 
party  and  meet  her  at  a  certain 
point  on  the  shore  of  Lake  Erie, 
there  to  baptize  her;  and  I  was 
about  to  start  for  the  place  appoint- 
ed when  I  received  another  note 
from  her,  reading  something  like 
this :  "I  did  not  dream  that  I  was 
such  a  poor,  weak,  frail  creature 
as  I  am.  I  believe  what  you  have 
told  me,  I  feel  that  it  is  true,  and  I 
thought  myself  strong  enough  to 
take  this  step;  but  I  am  not.  I 
haven't  the  stamina,  the  strength  to 
endure  what  would  follow.  Why, 
if  I  should  become  a  'Mormon'  I 
would  be  hated  by  the  people  who 
now  love  me,  my  friends  would  turn 
away  from  me,  my  name  would  be 
cast  out  as  evil;  I  would  lose  my 
social  standing.  I  cannot  do  it.  I 
•  hope  the  day  will  come  when  I 
shall  have  the  necessary  strength, 
but  I  don't  possess  it  today. 

These  are  some  of  the  experiences 
that  attend  the  preaching  of  the 
gospel  in  this  dispensation — a  dis- 
pensation destined  to  gather  into 
its  capacious  bosom  all  the  dispen- 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


sat  ions  of  the  past,  and  which  rep- 
resents the  winding  up  scene  of 
God's  great  work  pertaining  to  the 
salvation  of  man  upon  this  planet. 
The  dominant  thought  in  the  mind 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  during 
his  last  days  on  earth  was  expressed 
by  him  in  the  following  forceful 
language : 

"It  is  necessary,  in  the  ushering 
in  of  the  .dispensation  of  the  ful- 
ness of  times,  that  a  whole  and  com- 
plete and  perfect  union  and  welding 
together  of  dispensations  and  keys 
and  powers  and  glories  should  take 
place  and  be  revealed  from  the  days 
of  Adam  even  to  the  present  time ; 
and  not  only  this,  but  those  things 
which  never  have  been  revealed 
from  the  foundation  of  the  world, 
but  have  been  kept  hid  from  the 
wise  and  prudent,  shall  be  revealed 
unto  babes  and  sucklings  in  this 
the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of 
time."  Paul  the  apostle  also  re- 
ferred to  this  great  and  final  period 
as  one  in  which  God  would  gather 
together  all  things  in  Christ,  both 
in  heaven  and  upon  earth. 

Involved  in  this  mighty  scheme 
of  bringing  together  all  things  that 
are  Christ's,  is  the  gathering  of  the 
scattered  house  of  Israel,  the  chil- 
dren of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob, 
the  chosen  people,  through  whom 
God  has  worked  from  the  beginning 
for  the  salvation  and  betterment  of 
mankind ;  and  Joseph  Smith,  a  de- 
scendant of  that  Joseph  who  was 
sold  into  Egypt,  was  the  divinely 
appointed  instrument  for  lifting  up 
the  ensign  for  the  gathering  of 
Israel  in  the  last  days. 

And  what  is  the  object  in  view? 
Why  all  this  stupendous  labor  and 
sacrifice?  Why  must  the  house  of 
Tsrael  be  assembled?  Why  must 
the  gospel  dispensations — 'links  of  a 


mighty  chain  extending  from  the 
creation  down  to  the  end  of  time — 
be  bound  together  in  one  ?  It  is  be- 
cause God  is  coming  down  upon  the 
earth,  and  the  way  must  be  pre- 
pared before  him.  Jesus  Christ  is 
coming  to  reign  as  King  of  kings, 
to  inaugurate  the  millennial  era  of 
universal  freedom,  righteousness 
and  peace ;  and  in  order  that  his 
coming,  which  is  designed  as  a 
blessing,  may  not  prove  a  curse,  a 
calamity,  through  the  unprepared- 
ness  of  his  people  and  the  world  at 
large,  he  has  set  his  hand  in  these 
days  to  perform  the  marvelous 
work  and  wonder  that  the  Prophet 
Isaiah  foretold.  Israel  must  be 
gathered  because  this  God  who  is 
coming  is  the  God  of  Israel,  and  no 
other  people  have  the  right  to  re- 
ceive him.  He  will  come  to  his  own 
as  he  came  anciently,  but  his  own 
•  will  not  reject  him  as  they  did  be'- 
fore.  Neither  will  he  come  again 
as  a  lamb  led  to  the  slaughter ;  he 
will  come  as  the  Lion  of  the  tribe 
of  Judah,  to  sit  upon  the  throne  of 
David  and  reign  for  a  thousand 
years,  sanctifying  the  earth  and 
preparing  it  for  future  glory,  when 
it  will  become  a  heaven,  a  celestial 
abode  for  the  righteous.  God  raised 
up  Joseph  Smith  and  revealed  to 
him  anew  the  everlasting  gospel, 
and  conferred  upon  him  the  powers 
of  the  eternal  Priesthood,  that  he 
might  lift  up  the  ensign  as  a  rally- 
ing center  for  the  tribes  of  Israel, 
that  a  people  might  be  ready  to  re- 
ceive the  Lord  when  he  comes.  And 
for  upwards  of  eighty  years  this 
has  been  the  message  proclaimed  by 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints. 

One  would  suppose,  looking  at 
things  naturally,  that  the  world 
would   welcome   such  a  message : 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 


75 


that  they  would  rejoice  at  being- 
told  these  glad  tidings.  Think  of  it ! 
That  same  Jesus  who  ascended  into 
heaven  two  thousand  years  ago,  is 
coming  again  to  bless  the  earth 
with  his  divine  presence !  The 
world  ought  to  be  glad  of  it,  and 
love  to  be  told  of  it.  But  it  is  not 
so.  They  do  not  believe  it.  They 
think  we  are  deluded,  and  that  we 
are  trying  to  deceive  them.  They 
regard  these  things  as  the  vapor- 
ings  of  minds  frenzied  by  fanati- 
cism. But  we  have  a  testimony  by 
the  Holy  Spirit  that  they  are  true. 

"He  that  scattered  Israel  will 
gather  him  and  keep  him  as  a  shep- 
herd .doth  his  flock."  This  is  the 
message  of  "Mormonism."  But 
when  our  elders  go  forth  to  pro- 
claim it  they  meet  with  all  sorts  of 
experiences,  all  kinds  of  opposi- 
tion. The  laws  of  men  are  in  con- 
flict with  the  laws  of  God ;  their 
traditions  and  superstitions  are  op- 
posed to  divine  revelation.  Indif- 
ference, prejudice,  selfishness,  jeal- 
ousy, passion,  pride,  wealth,  poli- 
tics, religion,  all  are  in  the  way  of 
the  spread  of  truth  and  the  accom- 
plishment of  God's  sublime  pur- 
pose. A  few  receive  the  gospel 
gladly ;  some  believe  it,  but  are 
afraid  to  obey  it,  because  of  the 
sacrifices  entailed ;  while  the  great 
mass  ignore  the  saving  message,  or 
array  themselves  against  it,  sit  in 
judgment  upon  it,  imprison  or  ban- 
ish or  put  to  death  the  messengers, 
and  stand  in  the  way  of  the  prog- 
ress of  God's  work,  which  has  as 
its  one  object  the  happiness  and 
salvation  of  the  race. 

What  is  the  Lord  going  to  do 
about  it?  Will  he  allow  himself  to 
be  thwarted?  No.  He  has  set  his 
hand  to  do  a  certain  work,  and  that 
work  will  be  done,  though  all  man's 


works  go  to  pieces  in  the  process. 
The  Savior,  in  one  of  his  parables, 
(Luke  14:15-24)  indicates  the 
means  that  will  be  used  to  induce 
men  to  receive  the  gospel  and  "eat 
bread"  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 
"A  certain  man  made  a  great  sup- 
per and  bade  many,  and  sent  his 
servant  at  supper  time  to  say  to 
them  that  were  bidden,  Come  for 
all  things  are  now  ready."  I  shall 
modernize  the  language  a  little,  but 
this  is  the  substance :  One  of  those 
invited  said,  "I  cannot  come,  for  I 
have  bought  a  piece  of  ground  and 
must  needs  go  and  see  it;"  another 
excused  himself  by  saying,  "I  have 
bought  five  yoke  of  oxen  and  must 
prove  them ;"  and  a  third  entered 
this  plea,  "I  have  married  a  wife 
and  therefore  I  cannot  come."  The 
Master  of  the  house  was  angry  at 
these  excuses,  and  said  to  his  ser- 
vant, "Go  out  quickly  into  the 
streets  and  lanes  of  the  city  and 
bring  in  hither  the  poor,  the  maim- 
ed, the  halt  and  the  blind."  This 
was  done,  and  the  poor  gladly 
flocked  to  the  feast :  they  had  no 
social  standing,  no  wealth,  no  poli- 
tics, no  material  or  other  interests 
to  hold  them  back,  to  keep  them 
from  accepting  the  invitation.  They 
came,  but  still  there  was  room.  The 
Lord  then .  uttered  a  very  strange 
command.  Said  he  to  his  servant, 
"Go  now  into  the  highways  and 
hedges  and  compel  them  to  come 
in,  that  my  house  may  be  filled." 

I  know  what  your  thoughts  are. 
You  are  wondering,  Is  it  possible 
that  God  will  compel  men  to  be 
saved  ?  No.  Compulsion  is  the  doc- 
trine of  Lucifer;  it  is  the  doctrine 
of  the  German  Kaiser,  who  stands 
upon  the  devil's  ground,  compel- 
ling men  to  do  his  bidding.  The 
doctrine  of  Jesus  Christ  is  free- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


dom,  free  agency,  the  right  of 
choice.  He  is  the  God  of  freedom, 
his  gospel  is  "the  perfect  law  of 
liberty ;"  he  is  the  God  of  this  land, 
the  land  of  liberty,  and  the  only 
King  who  will  ever  rule  over  it. 
You  need  not  fear  that  any  German 
kaiser  will  ever  set  up  his  throne 
upon  this  land.  Read  the  Book  of 
Mormon  and  be  convinced. 

But  you  are  wondering  what  the 
Lord  of  the  Feast  meant  when  he 
sent  his  servant  to  "compel  them  to 
come  in."  I  believe  this  to  be  the 
solution :  God  will  never  coerce-  the 
human  mind — never  fetter  the  hu- 
man will.  He  will  force  no  man 
into  heaven ;  no  man  into  hell.  But 
he  has  never  said  that  he  would  not 
create  compelling  situations,  and  so 
.shape  human  affairs  as  to  induce 
men  and  women  to  do  things  of 
their  own  volition  that  they  would 
not  do  if  circumstances  remained 
unchanged. 

Let  me  illustrate  with  another  in- 
cident of  my  experience.  When  I 
was  a  little  boy  I  used  to  study  my 
spelling  lesson  out  of  an  old  blue 
book,  "Webster's  Spelling  Book." 
Some  of  you  gray-haired  men  may 
have  done  the  same.  None  of  the 
sisters,  of  course,  will  think  back 
that  far  (Laughter).  In  that  old 
book  were  several  rude. wood  cuts, 
one.  of  them  representing  a  farmer 
holding  an  altercation  with  a  bad 
boy  up  in  an  apple  tree.  The  boy 
was  doing  wrong — taking  the 
farmer's  fruit  without  permission. 
In  a  gentle  persuasive  voice  the 
owner  of  the  tree  asked  the  thiev- 
ing urchin  to  come  down,  but  he 
only  laughed ;  he  was  satisfied  with 
things  as  they  were ;  he  wanted  to 
stay  there  and  enjoy  himself,  and 
he  politely  declined  the  invitation 
to  descend.    The  farmer  then  grew 


more  serious.  Putting  on  a  stern 
manner,  he  took  up  some  grass  or 
turf  and  threw  it  at  the  boy,  sharply 
demanding  that  he  come  down.  But 
a  little  grass  did  not  hurt  him ;  he 
only  laughed  and  jeered  the  more. 
Then  the  farmer  became  terribly  in 
earnest.  Picking  up  some  rocks  he 
gave  that  boy  a  good  pelting,  and 
clown  he  scrambled  in  a  hurry — of 
his  own  accord  (Laughter).  His 
mind,  you  see,  had  remained  unfet- 
tered ;  he  had  his  free  agency ;  he 
could  have  .stayed  up  there  indefin- 
itely had  he  wanted .  to ;  but  for 
some  reason  he  did  not  want  to 
(Laughter).  His  mind  had  changed, 
and  he  came  down  of  his  own  sweet 
will.  That  is  my  idea  of  a  com- 
pelling situation. 

God  is  not  going  to  be  thwarted. 
The  Creator  will  not  be  baffled  by 
the  creature.  Having  set  his  hand 
for  the  gathering  of  his  elect,  he 
will  break  down  every  barrier  to 
the  spread  of  truth  and  the  deliver- 
ance of  the  house  of  Israel.  He  has 
sprinkled  many  nations  with  the 
blood  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob, 
the  blood  that  believes,  and  has  sent 
into  those  nations  spirits  answer- 
ing to  that  blood.  As  a  result,  when 
the  gospel  goes  forth  and  the  chil- 
dren of  Israel  are  commanded  to 
gather,  faith  is  found  among  all 
peoples  and  the  progress  of  God's 
work  is  thereby  facilitated.  Like 
the  rain-showers  from  heaven  over 
the  parched  and  thirsty  soil,  this 
choice  blood,  having  accomplished 
its  object,  having  made  the  world — 
the  unbelieving,  spiritually  barren 
world — 'fruitful  'of  good  things,  is 
summoned  back  to  the  ocean  of  its 
origin.  This  is  the  significance,  the 
symbolism  of  the  scattering  and 
gathering  of  Israel. 

After  testimony  will  come  judg- 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 


77 


ments — stern  measures,  if  the  mild 
ones  prove  ineffectual.  In  Decem- 
ber, 1832,  Joseph  Smith  prophesied 
that  war  would  be  "poured  out  upon 
all  nations,"  and  that  famine  and 
other  plagues  would  follow.  Dur- 
ing the  same  month  God  command- 
ed the  elders  of  the  Church  to  go 
forth  and  sound  the  gospel  warn- 
ing. Every  man  warned  was  to 
warn  his  neighbor,  and  this  was  the 
substance  of  the  divine  declaration : 
"After  your  testimony  cometh  the 
testimony  of  earthquakes  that  shall 
cause  groanings  in  the  midst  of 
her;"  the  voice  of  tempests,  the 
voice  of  thunderings  and  of  light- 
nings, the  voice  of  the  waves  of  the 
sea  heaving  themselves  beyond  their 
bounds.  The  sun  .shall  be  darkened, 
the  moon  shall  be  turned  to  blood, 
the  stars  fall  from  Heaven  like  figs 
from  off  a  fig  tree.  Earth  shall 
reel  to  and  fro  like  a  drunken  man ; 
all  things  shall  be  in  commotion ; 
men's  hearts  shall  fail  them  for 
fear,  and  they  shall  fall  upon  the 
ground  and  not  be  able  to  stand. 

There's  the  program — the  pro- 
phetic program  marked  out  for  the 
consideration  of  those  who  stand  in 
the  way  of  Omnipotence,  lifting  up 
their  puny  arms  to  prevent  God's 
people  from  carrying  out  his  com- 
mand to  prepare  the  way  before  his 
glorious  coming. 

Oh,  how  thankful  I  am  that  our 
nation,  our  beloved  America,  is 
standing  where  she  ought  always 
to  stand,  and  doubtless  always  will 
— standing  for  freedom  and  the 
rights  of  man,  imperiled  by  the 
selfish  ambition  of  a  bloodthirsty 
tyrant  bent  upon  dominating  the 
world ;  that  she  is  standing  for 
those  principles  of  liberty  and 
equalitv  which  are  a  part  and  por- 
tion of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 


This  gospel  must  make  its  way  into 
every  nook  and  corner  of  the 
world,  and  woe  be  to  that  nation 
that  tries  to  prevent.  I  want  my 
boy,  who  has  enlisted  in  the  cause 
of  our  country,  to  feel — not  that 
he  is  a  martyr — I  want  him  to  feel 
that  he  is  a  soldier  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and  that  upon  him  devolves  in  part 
the  duty  of  spreading  a  knowledge 
of  these  principles,  the  principles  of 
truth  and  freedom.  The  fetters  of 
tyranny  were  not  stricken  from 
America  for  the  sake  of  Americans 
alone.  God  loves  the  whole  world ; 
he  gave  his  Son  to  save  it ;  he  is 
using  America  and  her  allies  as  in- 
struments for  the  spread  of  the 
Gospel  of  Liberty,  and  in  their 
wake,  after  they  have  cleared  the 
way,  will  follow  the  missionaries 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY. 

The  reality  of  Christ — Testimony  of 
Peter  and  Paul  and  of  Joseph  Smith 
— What  a  change,  af  all  the  world 
would  accept  the  teachings  of  Christ 
and  his  actual  divine  personality  as 
the  Son  of  God — The  Latter-day 
Saints  do  so — Testimony  of  some  of 
our  boys  who  have  gone  to  estab- 
lish liberty  in  the  world — An  ex- 
ample—  Individuals  and  nations 
must  accept  the  truth  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  in  reality  the  Son  of  God 
and  be  guided  by  his  principles  of 
everlasting  truth  and  justice— The 
war  a  preparation  for  the  spreading 
of  the  true  plan  of  salvation. 

I  sincerely  hope  and  pray  that  I 
may  be  able  to  express  whatever  the 
Lord  desires  me  to  say  this  morn- 
ing. If  ever  there  was  a  time  in 
my  life  when  I  needed  his  guidance 
and  his  support  it  is  at  this  moment. 

I  feel  it  an  honor  to  be  associated 
with  men  and  women  who  believe  in 
the  reality  of  Christ,  our  Redeemer. 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  should  like  to  express  what  I  mean 
by  that,  and  so  shall  call  attention 
to  two  incidents  in  scripture — one, 
the  experience  of  two  of  the  ancient 
apostles,  and  the  other  the  testimony 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  The 
apostles  one  day  after  the  death  and 
resurrection  of  their  Lord  were 
preaching  in  the  temple,  and  the 
Sadducees  and  officers  came  and 
arrested  them,  and  put  them  in  pris- 
on. The  next  day  Peter  and  John 
were  brought  before  the  high  priest, 
before  Annas  and  before  Caiphas, 
some  of  the  very  men  who  had  been 
the  means  of  crucifying  the  Lord. 
"And  when  they  had  set  them  in 
their  midst  they  asked,"  (referring 
to  the  miracle  which  Peter  and  John 
had  performed  the  day  before  by 
healing  the  impotent  man  at  the 
gate,)  "By  what  power  or  by  what 
name  have  ye  done  this?  Then 
Peter,  filled  with  the  Holy  Ghost, 
said  unto  them  :  Ye  rulers  of  the 
people  and  elders  of  Israel,  if  we 
this  day  he  examined  of  the  good 
deed  done  to  the  impotent  man,  by 
what  means  he  was  made  whole,  be 
it  known  unto  all  and  to  all  the  peo- 
ple of  Israel,  that  by  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Nazareth,  whom  ye 
crucified,  whom  God  raised  from 
the  dead,  even  by  him  doth  this  man 
stand  before  you  whole.  This  is  the 
stone  which  was  set  at  naught  of 
you  builders,  which  has  become  the 
head  of  the  corner."  And  then, 
"neither  is  there  salvation  in  any 
ofher,  for  there  is  none  other  name 
under  heaven  given  among  men, 
•whereby  ive  must  be  saved!" 

To  Peter  and  to  John  on  that  oc- 
casion Christ,  the  Redeemer,  was  a 
reality.  They  had  associated  with 
him  in  the  flesh,  they  had  sat  in  his 
company,  they  had  seen  his  mira- 
cles, they  had  listened  to  his  .divine 


teachings,  they  had  stood  by,  John 
at  least,  when  the  Master  was  nailed 
to  the  cross.  They  had  associated 
with  him  for  approximately  forty 
days  after  his  resurrection  from  the 
tomb.  And  now  clothed  with  the 
power  which  the  Lord  had  given 
them  they  faced  the  very  men  who 
had  crucified  their  Redeemer  and 
said :  "By  him  whom  thou  didst 
crucify  is  this  man  made  whole." 
To  them,  Jesus  was  not  an  imag- 
inary being;  his  life  was  not  an 
idealism  nor  a  mere  mental  concep- 
tion. Christ,  I  repeat,  was  a  reality. 
He  was  indeed  the  very  Son  of  God, 
the  divine  Redeemer  of  the  world. 

Now  listen  to  another  testimony 
and  this  within  the  age  of  few  of 
the  men — I  wish  there  were  many — 
who  are  here  assembled  today : 
"When  the  light  rested  upon  me  I 
saw  two  personages  whose  bright- 
ness and  glory  defy  all  description, 
standing  above  me  in  the  air,  one  of 
them  speaking  unto  me,  called  me 
by  name  and  said,  pointing  to  the 
other:  'This  is  my  beloved  Son, 
hear  him  !'  "  The  Prophet  Joseph's 
object  in  going  to  the  Lord  on  that 
occasion  was  to  inquire  of  him 
which  of  all  the  sects  professing  to 
be  followers  of  the  Redeemer  was 
right.  This  then  was  his  answer: 
"I  was  answered  that  I  must  join 
none  of  them  for  they  were  all 
wrong.  And  the  personage  who 
addressed  me  sai.d :  that  all  their 
creeds  were  an  abomination  in  his 
sight,  that  those  professors  were 
all  corrupt,  that  they  draw  near  to 
me  with  their  lips,  but  their  hearts 
are  far  from  me.  They  teach  for 
doctrine  the  commandments  of 
men,  having  a  form  of  godliness, 
but  they  deny  the  power  thereof." 

To  him  who  accepts  Jesus  of 
Nazareth  as  the  very  Son  of  God, 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


to  him  who  believes  with  all  his  soul 
that  Jesus  lives  today,  that  he  can 
influence  and  that  he  does  influence 
the  world,  to  him,  I  say,  who  accepts 
that  truth,  Christ's  teachings  as  well 
as  his  personality,  become  a  reality. 
You  can  not  profess  to  be  truly  a 
Christian  and  refuse  to  live  up  to 
the  principles  that  Christ  taught  and 
obeyed. 

Now,  why  do  we  honor  him  to- 
day? Why  does  the  world  profess 
to  honor  him?  First  because  he  is 
the  Son  of  God  ;  and  second  because 
he  was  an  ideal  man.  They  accept 
him  as  one  who  was  sinless  before 
God,  an  exemplar  to  all  the  world. 
Then  those  who  follow  him  should 
possess,  at  least  strive  every  day 
of  their  lives  to  possess,  those  same 
characteristics,  and  approach,  at 
least  as  near  as  weakness  of  mor- 
tality will  permit,  some  of  those 
qualities  manifest  by  their  Lord. 
Regarding  the  universality  of  the 
acceptance  of  Jesus  Christ  as  the 
Redeemer,  I  read  recently,  in  an  ex- 
cellent work  in  many  respects,  this 
statement:  "The  printing  presses 
on  both  sides  of  the  sea  are  flooding 
the  world  with  books  about  the  life 
and  times  of  Jesus,  and  the  result 
is  he  looms  colossal  before  the  eye's 
of  the  world.  It  is  not  simply  the 
church  that  sees  him.  All  men  can 
see  him  now.  He  has  broken  out  of 
ecclesiastical  circles ;  he  walks 
through  all  the  cities  and  lands." 

O,  if  only  that  were  true !  If  only 
that  were  true !  What  a  different 
world  we  should  have  today  from 
what  it  is !  Do  you  think  that  if 
men  everywhere  ,saw  Christ  as  the 
Prophet  Joseph  saw  him — 'I  do  not 
mean  physically  now  as  he  alone 
saw  him,  but  if  they  will  accept 
him  as  the  Prophet  Joseph  has  re- 
vealed him,  having  seen  him,  if  they 


will  accept  him  as  John  saw.  him 
and  accepted  him  when  he  hurled 
into  the  face  of  Annas  and  Caiphas, 
the  truth  that  "By  his  power  whom 
thou  didst  crucify  is  this  man  made 
whole" — do  you  think  that  you 
would  find  in  Christian  communi- 
ties the  brothel  ?  Do  you  think  that 
you  would  find  other  allurements 
that  entrap  the  feet  of  the  young 
and  lead  them  from  Christ?  I  ask 
you  if  the  Christian  who  professed 
to  be  a  Christian  in  reality  believed 
in  the  doctrines  and  the  teaching  of 
the  Redeemer  as  he  gave  them, 
should  we  have  today  the  carnage, 
the  bloodshed,  the  infamy  that  is 
now  depopulating  the  Christian  na- 
tions?   I  do  not,  I  do  not. 

I  will  tell  you  what  I  am  inclined 
to  think:  That  many  who  profess 
Christianity  are  accepting  Christ  as 
an  ethereal  being,  and  are  inclined 
to  look  upon  his  teachings  as  im- 
practical. They  do  not  fully  realize 
that  before  the  zvorld  can  be  saved 
they  must  accept  his  teachings,  they 
must  walk  in  his  paths  as  individ- 
uals and  as  nations,  they  must  ac- 
cept as  a  veritable  truth  his  saying: 
"I  am  the  light  of  the  world." 

As  individuals  we  should  emulate 
him,  then,  because  of  his  divine 
character.  The  professing  Christians 
do  not  honor  him,  even  with  the 
honor  they  give  him,  because  he 
was  a  great  poet,  because  he  was  a 
great  scientist,  because  he  was  a 
great  discoverer,  a  great  inventor 
or  great  statesmen  or  a  great  gen- 
eral. They  honor  him  because  he 
was  a  great  man.  In  the  realm  of 
character  he  was  supreme.  In  ad- 
dition to  all  that.  Latter-day  Saints 
revere  him  because  he  was  in  reality 
the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world.  In  thus  accepting  him 
we,  as  inviduals,  must  emulate  his 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


divine  character,  approach  it  as 
nearly  as  we  can  by  keeping  our- 
selves celan  and  unspotted  from  the 
sins  of  the  world. 

I  said  I  rejoice  in  associating 
with  men  and  women  who  thus  ac- 
cept him ;  and  it  matters  not  where 
they  go,  they  feel  that  they  have  a 
realization  and  a  testimony  of  that 
truth  which  they  would  like  all  the 
world  to  accept  and  know. 

I  rejoice  in  the  knowledge  that 
many  of  our  boys  who  have  gone 
out  to  establish  liberty  in  the  land 
possess  that  same  testimony,  and  I 
am  glad  to  get  a  glimpse,  once  in  a 
while,  of  their  efforts  to  bear  that 
testimony  to  their  soldier  com- 
panions. I  love  these  boys.  I 
love  the  cause  for  which  they  are 
going  to  fisrht.  I  love  the  Nation 
they  are  called  upon  to  defend  and 
the  principles  of  everlasting  truth, 
so  far  as  the  liberty  and  freedom 
of  mankind  is  concerned,  for  which 
it  stands  ;  and  when  I  see  these  boys 
impressed  with  the  testirhony  that 
Tesus  Christ  is  their  Savior  and  that 
he  has  appeared  in  this  dispensation 
with  the  gospel  which  is  the  power 
of  God  unto,  salvation,  which  is  the 
science  of  life,  the  philosophy  of 
true  living,  I  thank  God  that  they 
have  a  desire  to  influence  their  asso- 
ciates, and  at  least  attempt  to  exert 
that  influence  to  lead  them  to  the 
same  truth.  Illustrative  of  this,  and 
by  way  of  commendation  of  a 
mother  who  has  that  same  testi- 
mony, I  wish  to  quote  from  a 
boy  who  met  one  of  our  boys  in 
one  of  the  cantonments.  This  boy 
from  another  state,  Kentucky,  I 
think,  is  writing  to  the  "Mormon" 
bov's  mother.  The  circumstances 
calling  it  forth  may  be  inferred  as 
I  read.  This  young  "Mormon" 
soldier  is  from  Idaho.    I  chanced 


to  meet  him  in  Camp  Morrison,  Vir- 
ginia, a  few  weeks  ago,  but  he 
knows  nothing  about  my  having 
this  letter : 

"I  can  not  tell  you  how  glad  I  was 
when  I  met  Burgess  for  it  seemed  to 
me  that  I  was  alone  as  far  as  friends 
were  concerned,  for  there  was  not  any 
in  this  squadron  that  I  could  trust  as 
a  friend  until  he  came.  The  first  time 
I  saw  him  I  knew  he  was  living  for 
something  higher,  and  as  we  were  of 
the  same  type,  of  course,  we  became 
fast  friends.  I  certainly  felt  bad  when 
the  time  came  for  him  to  leave  the 
field.  He  did  so  much  for  me  that  it 
was  hard  to  part.  I  have  been  striv- 
ing for  a  long  time  to  make  myself 
right  with  God,  as  I  had  fallen  from 
grace  and  I  felt  that  he  could  help 
m,e  and  he  truly  did.  Of  course  it  was 
hard  for  me  to  see  just  exactly  as  he 
did,  but  we  just  forgot  for  the  time 
that  we  were  of  different  faiths,  and 
studied  together  and  talked  of  and 
dug  into  spiritual  things  which  I  was 
so  much  in  need  of.  He  certainly 
showed  his  colors.  And  /  wish  that  I 
was  the  young  man  that  he  is.  I  have 
been  reading  and  studying  the  Book 
of  Mormon  and  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  which  he  gave  me,  and  I 
see  things  different  than  I  ever  did 
before,  and  I  only  wish  that  he  was 
here  with  me  for  he  would  be  such  a 
help  to  me.  I  don't  know  how  I  can 
ever  return  what  he  has  done  for  me, 
and  also  your  kind  words  and  advice 
which  means  more  to  me  than  I  can 
tell.  I  need  help  so  badly,  as  it  seems 
to  me  that  something  is  in  the  way, 
for  T  do  not  feel  spiritually  as  I 
should.  I  would  be  so  happy  if  I 
could  be  as  full  of  the  spirit  as  Bur- 
gess is  and  as  I  once  was.  I  try  to 
get  hold  of  all  the  good  reading  that 
I  can  and  try  to  get  just  as  far  from 
bad  company  as  I  can  get.  I  heartily 
thank  you  for  the  little  book  Key  to 
Theology.  You  are  doing  so  much  for 
me  that  I  almost  feel  ashamed  that  I 
can  not  return  it  some  way,  but  I  hope 
that  some  day  I  can  in  some  way." 

There  is  a  mother  in  Idaho,  her 
boy  in  Camp  Morrison,  or  in 
France,  the  other   boy   in  Kelly 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


81 


Field,  and  distances  separating 
them,  but  that  mother  has  the  testi- 
mony that  Jesus  Christ  is  her  Sav- 
ior, she  evidently  knows  that  God 
has  spoken  in  this  age,  and  she  de- 
sires to  lead  others  to  know  the 
same  truth.  So  she  is  teaching  the 
soldier  boys  by  letter,  trying  to  cul- 
tivate the  good  seed  sown  by  her 
young  boy,  who,  though  scarcely 
out  of  his  teens,  ''showed  his  colors" 
by  testifying  to  his  companions  that 
Jesus  Christ  is  in  reality  the  Son  of 
God,  •  the  Savior  of  the  world. 

I  will  tell  you,  brethren,  the  time 
has  come  when  not  only  individuals 
but  nations  must  accept  this  truth. 
They  must  be  guided  in  their  na- 
tional and  international  dealings  by 
the  principles  of  everlasting  truth 
and  justice.  The  nation  that  started 
the  terrible  war  now  raging,  started 
it  because  it  ignored  the  principles 
of  Christ.    The  Savior's  life  was 
guided  principally  by  two  things ; 
viz..  Individual  Purity  and  Service. 
He  kept  himself  wholly  unspotted 
from  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  de- 
voted his  life  to  the  consideration  of 
others,  to  salvation  for  the  human 
family.   He  was  always  looking  out 
for  the  oppressed,  comforting  the 
sick,  healing  the  maimed  and  dis- 
abled, giving  his  life  for  the  world. 
So  when  a  so-called  Christian  na- 
tion, or  at  least  when  a  coterie  of 
men,  will  meet  together  and  decide 
months  before  the  war  breaks  out, 
that  a  neighboring  nation  must  be 
crushed  in  order  that  territory  may 
be  gained,  I  want  to  tell  you  that 
group  of  men,  though  professing, 
with  their  lips,  at  least,  in  Christ,  do 
not  believe  in   the    principles  he 
taught. 

I  thank  God  that  the  United 
States  upon  entering  the  great  con- 
flict started  out  with  the  declaration, 


"we  go  to  fight  for  the  ultimate 
peace  of  the  world  and  for  the  liber- 
ation of  its  peoples,  including  the 
German  people.  We  are  seeking  no 
selfish  purposes  of  our  own,  we  de- 
sire no  conquests,  we  seek  no  ag- 
grandisement, we  ask  for  no  mate- 
rial compensation  for  the  sacrifices 
we  shall  freely  make ;  all  we  ask 
is  that  nations,  great  and  small, 
shall  enjoy  the  liberty  and  the  free- 
dom which  God  has  given  to  the 
people  of  America."  !n  that  re- 
spect, at  least,  we  are  emulating  the 
teachings  of  the  Savior ;  and  I  see 
in  it  a  preparation,  as  has  been  said 
time  and  again  at  this  confer- 
ence, for  the  spreading  of  the  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ,  the  true  plan  of 
salvation,  the  perfect  law  of  liberty. 

May  I  say  in  conclusion,  breth- 
ren, to  you  who  hold  the  priesthood 
after  the  order  of  the  Son  of  God, 
that  a  mighty  responsibility  is  rest- 
ing upon  you ;  a  great  responsibility 
is  resting  upon  the  elders  of  Christ's 
Church,  wherever  they  may  be,  to 
bear  this  testimony  to  the  world  that 
all  who  are  honest  in  heart,  and 
there  are  millions  and  millions  of 
them.  I  think,  who  should  have  the 
privilege  of  hearing  this  gospel,  may 
be  brought  to  a  knowledge  of  the 
truth. 

God  hasten  the  day  when  "every 
knee  shall  bow  and  every  tongue 
confess  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ." 
Amen. 

"He  intercedes  for  me,"  a  .sacred 
duet,  was  sung  by  Mabel  H.  Clark, 
and  Evan  Arthur. 

ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS. 

Questions  on  persistence  of  life  that 
have  arisen  through  the  Great  War — 
Literature  that  seeks  to  answer  the 
question:  What  happens  after  death? 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


— No  two  writers  agree — Testimony 
of  the  Holy  Scriptures,  the  Bible 
and  Book  of  Mormon — The  testi- 
mony of  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet 
to  whom  appeared  in  this  dispensa- 
tion men  who  lived  in  former  times 
— With  these  before  us,  why  doubt 
the  immortality  of  man? — Without 
other  evidence  the  life  of  Jesus  is 
sufficient  to  answer  the  question  for- 
ever— All  who  die  shall  live  after 
death,  through  faith  in  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ. 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  the 
hour  is  coming,  and  now  is,  when  the 
dead  shall  hear  the  voice  of  the  Son 
of  God:  and  they  that  hear  shall  live. 

For  as  the  Father  hath  life  in  him- 
self; so  hath  he  gi\cn  to  the  Son  to 
have  life  in  himself;  and  hath  given 
him  authority  to  execute  judgment 
also,  because  he  is  the  Son  of  man. 

Marvel  not  at  this:  for  the  hour  is 
coming,  in  which  all  that  are  in  the 
graves  shall  hear  his  voice,  and  shall 
come  forth;  they  that  have  done  good, 
to  the  resurrection  of  life;  and  they 
that  have  done  evil,  to  the  resurrec- 
tion of  damnation  (Jonn  5:25-29). 

Had  I,  or  any  other  speaker,  de- 
clared from  this  pulpit,  four  years 
ago,  that  the  question  pending-  be- 
tween the  Austro-Hung"arian  Em- 
pire, and  the  Kingdom  of  Servia, 
resulting  from  the  assassination  of 
the  crown  prince  of  the  former 
country,  and  his  wife,  while  they 
were  visiting  in  the  Balkan  States, 
would  plunge  the  world  into  the 
most  stupendous  war  of  history,  a 
war  which  would  affect,  either  di- 
rectly or  indirectly,  every  human 
being  in  the  civilized  world ;  that 
millions  of  soldiers  would  be  trained 
for  war,  and  battles  terrible  beyond 
the  dreams  of  men  fought ;  that  na- 
tions would  devote  themselves  to 
war  until  it  would  be  easier  to  fight 
on  than  return  to  a  condition  of 
peace ;  that  our  own  country  would 
become  involved  in  it,  and  would 
equip  and  send  to  Europe  vast  ar- 


mies of  men,  and  expend  treasure 
almost  beyond  the  comprehension  of 
the  human  mind  ;  that- the  bed  of  the 
ocean  would  be  carpeted  with  sunk- 
en ships,  and  death  hurled  upon  de- 
fenseless women  and  children  from 
the  air ;  that  before  the  end  came 
whole  nations  would  be  blotted  out, 
ancient  autocracies  go  crashing 
down,  and  the  guarantees  of  inter- 
national law  be  utterly  ignored,  he 
would  have  been  regarded  as  either 
a  harmless  dreamer  or  a  dangerous 
dunatic ;  yet  we  who  have .  lived 
through  the  past  four  eventful  years 
have  witnessed  the  development  of 
these  conditions. 

Millions  of  men  have  been  slain, 
other  millions  have  been  wounded 
and  maimed  for  life.  In  some  in- 
stances families  with  long  and  hon- 
orable history  behind  them  have  lost 
their  last  representative  on  the  field 
of  battle,  and  to  all  human  appear- 
ances the  worst  is  yet  to  come. 

This  tremendous  sacrifice  of  hu- 
man life,  the  thousands  whose  re- 
mains lie  upon  the  ocean  bed,  and 
the  countless  numbers  whose  burial 
places  will  never  be  known  to  the 
parents,  brothers,  sisters  and  kins- 
men who  sent  them  forth  to  battle, 
has  awakened  in  the  minds  of  think- 
ing people  a  widespread  desire  to 
know  something  of  the  condition  of 
man  after  death.  What  happens 
after  death?  What  of  ourselves 
after  death?  Shall  we  ever  meet 
these  dear  ones  again?  If  there  is 
a  future  life,  what  of  our  person- 
ality, does  that  persist,  or  are  we 
to  be  so  changed  that  we  will  have 
no  greater  knowledge  or  recollec- 
tion of  conditions  as  they  exist  in 
this  mortal  life  than  we  now  have 
of  the  past? 

These  are  some  of  the  pertinent 
questions  which  are  being  asked, 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  WINS. 


83 


questions  in  which  we  are  all  vitally 
interested,  for  whether  in  peace  or 
war,  we  are  constantly  being1  separ- 
ated from  those  we  love  by  this  con- 
dition which  we  call  death. 

Many  books  have  been  written 
and  published,  since  the  war  began, 
in  which  the  endeavor  is  made  to 
answer  this  all  important  question, 
"What  happens  after  death?"  I 
have  read  a  number  of  these  books, 
in  which  the  opinions  of  some  of 
the  world's  greatest  scholars  and 
thinkers  are  expressed ;  and  as  I 
read,  the  one  striking  thought  which 
came  to  me  was  the  great  diversity 
of  opinion  which  exists  among  these 
learned  men.  No  two  agree.  There 
is  a  certain  uniformity  of  opinion 
among  Christian  ministers,  it  is 
true,  they  all  accept  the  doctrine  of 
future  life,  but  are  hopelessly  di- 
vided regarding  the  personality  of 
the  individual,  and  his  relationship, 
in  the  life  to  come,  with  that  which 
is  in  any  way  connected  with  this 
life.  The  doctrine  of  the  resurrec- 
tion, if  admitted  at  all,  is  held  to  be 
a  kind  of  new  sp:.ritual  birth,  while 
the  reunion  of  the  spirit  and  body 
of  man,  to  become  a  diving  mate- 
rial soul,  is  not  admitted  by  a  single 
writer. 

Among  those  who  are  most  pro- 
nounced in  their  unbelief,  Max  Nar- 
dau,  the  great  French  scholar  and 
author,  is  perhaps  the  most  out- 
spoken. Death,  he  declares,  means 
the  final  extinction  of  consciousness, 
and  the  eternal  dissolution  of  what 
was  a  personality.  The  immortality 
of  the  personality,  he  says,  is  neither 
conceivable  nor  desirable,  nothing- 
ness is  more  consoling. 

Sir  Hyrum  Maxim  asserts  that 
there  is  not  one  little  particle  of  evi- 
dence to  prove  that  we  live  after 
death,  as  preachers  would  have  us 


believe.  He  argues  that  the  only 
future  life  we  may  expect  is  as  we 
live  in  our  children,  and  that  he  who 
has  failed  to  leave  posterity  is  for- 
ever dead, 

John  Blundelle-Burton  would  like 
to  believe,  but  is  in  .doubt,  because, 
he  says,  no  one  comes  back  to  tell ; 
while  Madam  Besant  assures  us  in 
the  most  positive  terms  that  there  is 
a  life  after  death,  but  destroys  our 
hope  by  telling  us  that  we  may  be 
re-incarnated  in  the  form  of  a  plant, 
an  animal,  or  some  other  human 
being,  until  we  finally  reach  a  con- 
dition that  we  pass  into  Nirvana, 
whatever  that  may  be. 

Undoubtedly  the  fondest  hope  of 
every  person  .who  has  been  sepa- 
rated from  those  he  loves  by  death, 
is  that  at  some  future  time,  when 
he  too  is  called,  as  he  knows  he 
must  be,  he  will  meet  them  and  re- 
new the  associations  which  bound 
him  to  them  in  this  life.  If  there 
are  men  like  Max  Nardau,  who 
really  feel  that  a  future  existence  is 
nether  conceivable  nor  desirable,  it 
is  their  privilege,  I  presume,  to  re- 
main in  the:r  faithless  condition.  I 
shall  enter  into  no  argument  with 
them  at  this  time,  they  deny  the  di- 
vine authenticity  of  the  scriptures, 
and  consequently  no  basis  for  dis- 
cussion, from  the  point  of  view  of 
a  Christian,  exists.  But  to  John 
Blundelle-Burton,  who  would  like  to 
believe,  but  is  in  douot  because  no 
one  comes  back  to  tell,  or  Madam 
Besant,  who  asserts  her  belief  in  a 
future  life,  but  would  have  us  accept 
her  theory  of  re-incarnation,  and 
most  of  all  to  those  devout  Chris- 
f'ans  who  earnestly  believe  in,  and 
hope  for,  reunion  with  those  they 
love  after  death,  there  is  evidence 
sufficient  to  satisfy  the  most  exact- 
ing mind,  evidence  which,  when  we 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


come  to  understand  it,  leaves  us 
without  doubt,  and  the  testimony  of 
the  Christian  is  founded  upon  far 
more  convincing  proof  than  the 
opinion  of  the  unbeliever.  The  lat- 
ter does  not  believe  because  he  has 
not  seen,  but  neither  he,  nor  any 
witness  he  can  produce  can  disprove 
the  testimony  of  the  Christian  who 
has  seen,  he  can  only  assert  his  un- 
belief, which  proves  nothing,  though 
thousands  do  it. 

The  testimony  of  one  reputable 
witness,  however,  who  avers  that  he 
knows  because  he  has  seen,  is  of 
great  worth,  and  where  many  tes- 
tify to  the  same  thing,  the  fact  be- 
comes established,  whether  the  mul- 
titude accept  it  or  not. 

The  holy  scripture  is  not  the  pro- 
duct of  a  single  mind.  The  contents 
of  the  Bible  were  not  written  by  one 
hand,  but  by  many.  It  does  not  deal 
with  a  single  dispensation  or  period 
of  time,  but  covers  the  world's  his- 
tory, and  the  handdealings  of  the 
Father  with  the  inhabitants  of  the 
earth,  from  the  creation  to  the  pre- 
sent, for  men  not  only  wrote  their 
own  observations  and  experiences, 
but  by  the  spirit  of  revelation,  and 
gift  of  prophecy,  foretold  the  future 
with  .such  accuracy  that  only  one 
who  is  determined  to  not  believe  can 
be  left  in  doubt.  To  some  of  the 
truths  bequeathed  to  us  by  the  scrip- 
ture, and  attested  by  men  of  God, 
I  wish  briefly  to  refer. 

One  thing  about  the  scriptures, 
which  struck  me  with  great  force, 
when  I  began  to  study  and  under- 
stand them,  is  the  fact  that  the  word 
of  the  Lord  never  comes  to  us  as  an 
opinion,  no  attempt  is  made  to  sup- 
port it  by  argument,  it  comes  as  a 
/definite,  abstract  statement  of  fact. 
"In  the  begining  God  created  the 
heavens  and  the  earth.   So  God 


created  man  in  his  own  image,  in 
the  image  of  God  created  he  him, 
male  and  female  created  he  them." 
So  it  is  from  the  first  words  in  the 
Bible  to  the  last,  the  works  of  the 
Father  are  declared  as  facts,  not 
theories. 

The  words  of  the  Redeemer, 
which  I  read  before  beginning  my 
remarks,  declare  definitely  that  the 
hour  is  coming  when  all  that  are 
in  the  graves  shall  come  forth, 
they  that  have  done  good  to  the 
resurrection  of  life,  and  they  that 
have  done  evil  to  the  resurrection 
of  condemnation.  In  corroboration 
of  this  doctrine  permit  me  to  read 
from  the  words  of  Mormon,  as  he 
contemplated  the  slain  of  his  people  : 
"O,  ye  fair  sons  and  daughters,  ye 
fathers  and  mothers,  ye  husbands 
and  wives,  ye  fair  ones,  how  is  it 
that  ye  could  have  fallen  ?  But  be- 
hold ye  are  gone  and  my  sorrows 
cannot  bring  your  return,  and  the 
day  soon  oometh  that  your  mortal 
must  put  on  immortality,  and  these 
bodies  which  are  now  mouldering  in 
corruption  must  soon  become  in- 
corruptible bodies,  and  then  ye  must 
stand  before  the  judgment  seat  of 
Christ  to  be  judged  according  to 
your  works.  And  if  it  so  be  that  ye 
are  righteous  then  are  ye  blessed 
with  your  fathers  who  have  gone 
before  you"  (Mormon  6:19-21). 

This  doctrine  of  the  universal 
resurrection  of  the  dead  is  taught 
by  Isaiah,  Jeremiah,  Daniel  and 
other  of  the  prophets.  That  the  dead 
will  live  again  must  be  admitted  by 
every  believer  in  the  Bible. 

Just  as  definite  as  is  the  doctrine 
of  the  resurrection,  is  the  fact  that 
all  who  participate  in  it  must 
appear  before  the  bar  of  God  to  be 
judged  according  to  the  deeds  done 
in  the  body. 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS. 


85 


Paul,  writing  to  the  Corinthian 
Saints,  said :  "If  in  this  life  only  we 
have  hope  in  Christ,  we  are  of  all 
men  most  miserable.  But  now  is 
Christ  risen  from  the  dead,  and  be- 
come the  first  fruits  of  them  that 
slept.  For  .since  by  man  came  death, 
by  man  came  also  the  resurrection 
of  the  .dead.  For  as  in  Adam  all  die, 
even  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be  made 
alive"  (1  Cor.  15:19-22). 

In  that  remarkable  revelation, 
given  by  Christ  to  the  x\postle  John, 
on  the  Isle  of  Patmos,  which  he  sent 
and  signified  by  his  angel,  we  read : 
"And  I  saw  the  dead,  small  and 
great,  stand  before  God ;  and  the 
books  were  opened  ;  and  another 
book  was  opened,  which  is  the  book 
of  life:  and  the  dead  were  judged 
out  of  those  things  which  were 
written  in  the  books,  according  to 
their  works.  And  the  sea  gave  up 
the  dead  which  were  in  it ;  and  death 
and  hell  delivered  up  the  dead  which 
were  in  them :  and  they  were  Judged 
every  man  according-  to  their 
works"  (Revelation  20:12,13). 

The  scripture  which  I  have  quoted 
makes  clear  two  vital  points  of 
doctrine  connected  with  this  sub- 
ject, that  as  in  Adam  all  die  so  in 
Christ  all  are  made  alive  through 
the  resurrection,  and  that  the  per- 
sonality of  the  individual  persists 
after  death,  otherwise  how  could  he 
be  responsible  for  the  deeds  done  in 
the  body? 

The  two  outstanding  attributes  of 
God  are  justice  and  mercy.  How 
can  I  in  justice  be  held  responsible 
for  the  transgressions  of  another  or 
rewarded  for  his  righteousness? 
No;  I  must  answer  for  myself,  just 
as  you  must  answer  for  yourself  ;  so 
my  personality  must  persist,  I  must 
be  the  same  man,  my  future  life  in- 
separably connected  with  this  life. 


We  are  told  that  upon  a  certain 
occasion  Jesus  took  Peter,  and 
James,  and  John,  and  went  into  a 
mountain  to  pray  and  behold  there 
talked  with  him  two  men,  which 
were  Moses  and  Elias  (Matt.  17: 
1-4).  These  men  were  seen  of  the 
apostles  who  bore  record  of  their 
presence,  which  was  so  real  that 
Peter  suggested  that  three  taber- 
nacles be  constructed,  one  for  Jesus, 
and  one  each  for  Moses  and  Elias. 
Moses  lived  1500  years  before 
Christ,  and  Elias,  if  we  are  to  iden- 
tify him  with  the  Elijah  of  the 
Bible,  1000  years  before:,  one  in- 
stance from  the  many  where  some 
one  came  back  to  tell. 

The  revelation  given  to  John,  on 
the  Isle  of  Patmos,  from  which'  I 
have  quoted  was  delivered  by  a 
heavenly  messenger,  and  when  John 
would  have  bowed  down  to  worship 
him  he  was  forbidden,  the  messen- 
ger declaring  that  he  was  one  of 
his  fellow  servants,  one  of  the 
prophets  who  kept  the  command- 
ments of  the  book  (Revelation  22: 
8-9). 

Of  greater  importance  to  us,  be- 
cause we  are  more  directly  affected 
by  it.  is  the  appearance  of  men.  who 
long  since  lived  and  died,  in  the 
present  dispensation.  Let  Joseph 
Smith  tell  the  story  in  his  own  sim- 
ple language.  It  should  be  remem- 
bered that  at  the  time  the  first  of 
these  manifestations  were  given, 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  simple  country 
boy,  not  yet  fifteen  years  old.  and 
incapable,  even  if  he  had  so  desired, 
to  conceive  of  or  execute  a  great 
fraud  or  deception.  He  simply  de- 
sired to  do  his  duty  to  God,  and  the 
great  confusion  among  sectarian 
churches  left  him  in  doubt  as  to 
which  denomination  he  should 
identify  himself  with.  He  went  to 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  Lord  for  wisdom,  with  the 
following  result : 

In  accordance  with  this,  my  deter- 
mination, to  ask  God,  I  retired  to 
the  woods  to  make  the  attempt.  *  * 
*  *  Having  looked  around  me,  and 
finding  myself  alone,  1  kneeled  down 
and  began  to  offer  up  the  desires  of 
my  heart  to  God.  I  had  scarcely  done 
so,  when  I  was  seized  upon  by  some 
power  which  entirely  overcame  me, 
and  had  such  an  astonishing  influence 
over  me  as  to  bind  my  tongue  so  that 
I  could  not  speak.  Thick  darkness 
gathered  around  me,  and  it  seemed  to 
me  for  a  time  that  I  was  doomed  to 
sudden  destruction.  But  by  exerting 
all  my  powers  to  call  upon  God  to 
deliver  me  out  of  the  power  of  this 
enemy  which  had  seized  upon  me,  and 
at  the  very  moment  when  I  was  ready 
to  sink  dnto  despair  and  abandon  my- 
self to  destruction — not  to  an  imag- 
inary ruin,  but  to  the  power  of  some 
actual  being  from  the  unseen  world, 
who  had  such  marvelous  power  as  I 
had  never  before  felt  in  any  being — 
just  at  this  moment  of  great  alarm,  I 
saw  a  pillar  of  light  exactly  over  my 
head,  above  the  brightness  of  the  sun, 
which  descended  until  it  gradually 
fell  upon  me. 

It  no  sooner  appeared  than  I  found 
myself  delivered  from  the  enemy 
which  had  me  bound.  When  the  light 
rested  upon  me  I  saw  two  personages, 
whose  brightness  and  glory  defy  all 
description,  standing  above  me  in  the 
air.  One  of  them  spake  unto  me,  call- 
ing me  by  name,  and  said,  pointing  to 
the  other:  This  is  my  beloved  Son, 
hear  him! 

Three  years  later,  and  after  he 
had  retired  for  the  night,  Joseph 
Smith  says : 

While  I  was  thus  in  the  act  of  call- 
ing upon  God,  I  discovered  a  light 
appearing  in  my  room,  which  con- 
tinued to  increase  until  the  room  was 
brighter  than  at  noonday,  when  im- 
mediately a  personage  appeared  at  my 
bedside,  standing  in  the  air,  for  his 
feet  did  .not  touch  the  floor.  He  had 
on  a  robe  of  most  exquisite  white- 
ness.   It  was  a  whiteness  beyond  any- 


thing earthly  I  had  ever  seen,  nor  do 
I  believe  that  any  earthly  thing  could 
be  made  to  appear  so  exceedingly 
white  and  brilliant.  His  hands  were 
naked,  and  his  arms  also  a  little  above 
the  wrists,  so  also  were  his  feet  naked, 
as  were  his  legs  a  little  above  the 
ankles.  His  head  and  neck  were  also 
bare.  I  could  discover  that  he  had  no 
other  clothing  on  but  this  robe,  as  it 
was  open,  so  that  I  could  see  into  his 
bosom. 

Not  only  was  his  robe  exceedingly 
white,  but  his  whole  person  was  glori- 
ous beyond  description,  and  his  coun- 
tenance truly  like  lightning.  The 
room  was  exceedingly  light,  but  not 
so  very  bright  as  immediately  around 
his  person.  When  I  first  looked  upon 
him  I  was  afraid,  but  the  fear  soon 
left  me.  He  called  me  by  name  and 
said  unto  me  that  he  was  a  messenger 
sent  from  the  presence  of  God  to  me, 
and  that  his  name  was  Moroni;  that 
God  had  a  work  for  me  to  do,  and  that 
my  name  should  be  had  for  good  and 
evil  among  all  nations,  kindreds  and 
tongues,  or  that  it  should  be  both 
good  and  evil  spoken  of  among  all 
people. 

| 

Six  years  after  the  a'oove  incident 
the  following  is  related  by  Joseph 
Smith  : 

Two  days  after  the  arrival  of  Mr. 
Cowdery  (being  the  7th  of  April)  I 
commenced  to  translate  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  and  he  began  to  write  for 
me.  We  still  continued  the  work  of 
translation,  when,  in  the  ensuing 
month  of  May  (1829),  we  on  a  certain 
day  went  into  the  woods  to  pray  and 
inquire  of  the  Lord  respecting  baptism 
for  the  remission  of  sins,  that  we 
found  mentioned  in  the  translation  of 
the  plates.  While  we  were  thus  em- 
ployed praying  and  calling  upon  the 
Lord,  a  messenger  from  heaven  de- 
scended in  a  cloud  of  light,  and  hav- 
ing laid  his  hands  upon  us,  he  or- 
dained us  saying:  "Upon  you  my  fel- 
low servants,  in  the  name  of  Messiah, 
I  confer  the  priesthood  of  Araon, 
which  holds  the  keys  of  the  minister- 
ing of  angels,  and  of  the  gospel  of  re- 
pentance, and  of  baptism  by  immer- 
sion for  the  remission  of  sins;  and 
this  shall  jiever  again  be  taken  from 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS. 


87 


the  earth,  until  the  sons  of  Levi  do 
offer  again  an  offering  unto  the  Lord 
in  righteousness."  The  messenger 
who  visited  us  on  this  occasion  and 
conferred  this  priesthood  upon  us, 
said  that  his  name  was  John,  the  same 
that  is  called  John  tlie  Baptist,  in  the 
New  Testament. 

Many  other  instances  might  be 
cited  where  men  who  lived  long  ago 
have  returned  to  the  earth  and 
communicated  the  will  of  the  Lord 
to  his  servants  here.  If  this  be  true, 
and  it  is,  why  should  we  be  in  doubt 
regarding  the  immortality  of  man, 
or  his  resurrection  as  a  material  be- 
ing, with  a  body  of  flesh  and  bone, 
as  he  now  has,  but  a  body  cleansed 
and  purified,  no  longer  subject  to 
the  pain,  suffering  and  final  death 
with  which  mortality  is  burdened. 

If  we  had  no  other  evidence  the 
life  of  the  Redeemer  is  sufficient  to 
settle  this  question  forever.  Jesus 
was  the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world.  He  came  for  the  very 
purpose  of  making  clear  to  us  this 
mystery  of  human  life.  Born  as  we 
are  born,  he  lived,  labored  and  loved 
much  as  we  do,  except  that  the 
power  of  God,  love,  charity,  pa- 
tience, .self  sacrifice,  those  Godlike 
characteristics  which  were  his  birth- 
right, were  manifest  in  his  life  as 
they  never  have  been,  and  never  will 
be,  in  any  other  human  being. 
Finally,  when  his  work  was  finished, 
he  died,  very  much  as  we  would 
have  died  under  similar  circum- 
stances. Up  to  this  point  the  gerat 
mission  which  he  came  to  perform 
was  but  little  understood,  but  when 
on  that  Easter  Sunday  morning  he 
arose  from  the  tomb,  with  a-  glori- 
fied body,  the  sting  of  death  was 
made  sweet,  the  victory  of  the 
grave  was  turned  to  defeat,  for  he 
made  the  resurrection  of  the  whole 
human  family  not  only  possible,  but 


a  fact,  whether  they  accepted  him 
or  not. 

His  disciples  doubted,  and  when 
he  appeared  to  them  they  were  ter- 
rified, supposing  that  they  saw  a 
spirit,  for  like  some  of  us  they  could 
not  understand  that  one  who  had 
lived  and  died,  could  live  again,  and 
Jesus  said  to  them :  "Behold  my 
hands  and  my  feet,  that  it  is  I  my- 
self :  handle  me  and  see,  for  a  spirit 
hath  not  flesh  and  bones,  as  ye  see 
me  have"  (Luke  24:39).  It  was 
the  same  Christ,  with  the  same 
body,  but  glorified,  who  stood  be- 
fore them.  Why  should  we  be  in 
doubt  regarding  the  future  status 
of  the  ,souls  of  men?  I  bear  wit- 
ness to  you  that  just  as  Christ  was 
raised  from  the  dead,  with  a  mate- 
rial body  which  his  disciples  saw 
and  felt,  just  as  he  will  appear  to 
the  Jews  with  the  prints  of  the 
nails  in  his  hands  and  feet,  and  the 
spear  wound  in  his  side,  so  is  it  the 
■design  of  God  that  every  one  of  us 
shall  be  raised  from  the  dead  with 
material,  but  not  mortal  bodies. 

The  sea  will  give  up  the  dead 
which  are  in  it,  the  battle  fields  of 
France  will  give  up  the  dead  who 
are  interred  in  them.  Every  mother 
who  has  lost  a  son,  every  kinsman 
who  has  lost  a  relative,  will  receive 
them  back  again  through  faith  in 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  as- 
sociations, the  covenants,  the  bonds 
of  love  which  bound  us  together  in 
this  life  will  be  renewed  and  con- 
tinue with  us  throug"h  the  endless 
ages  of  eternity. 

I  love  the  gospel  because  of  this 
hope  which  has  come  to  me.  I  live 
in  anticipation  of  reunion  with 
those  I  love  after  death.  I  want  no 
heaven  away  from  my  own,  but  to 
be  with  my  father  and  mother,  my 
children  and  kindred,  with  you  my 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


brethren  and  sisters,  with  whom  I 
have  labored  and  borne  the  burdens 
of  this  mortal  life,  and  I  know  that 
my  desire  will  be  realized  if  I  am 
true  to  the  covenants  which  I  have 
made  with  the  Lord  and  my  fellow 
men. 

I  wanted  to  bear  this  testimony, 
hoping  that  it  may  bring  comfort 
to  all  who  are  separated  from  those 
they  love  by  .death.  It  is  only  for 
a  little  season.  The  graves  will  be 
opened,  and  the  dead  will  come 
forth  to  answer  for  the  deeds  done 
in  the  body.  God  help  us  to  live 
righteous  lives,  that  we  may  be 
worthy  of  eternal  life,  through 
faith  in  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

I  am  forcibly  reminded  of  the 
saying  of  the  Savior  about  the  rich 
man,  who  concluded  that  he  had 
so  much  in  the  world  that  he  could 
well  rest  content,  and  take  his  ease. 
The  Savior  said: 

The  ground  of  a  certain  rich  man 
brought  forth  plentifully: 

And  he  thought  within  himself, 
saying,  What  shall  I  do,  because  I 
have  no  room  where  to  bestow  my 
fruits? 

And  he  said,  This  will  I  do:  I  will 
pull  down  my  bsrns,  and  build 
greater;  and  there  will  I  bestow  all 
my  fruits  and  my  goods. 

And  I  will  say  to  my  soul,  Soul, 
thou  hast  much  goods  laid  up  for 
many  years;  take  thine  ease,  eat, 
drink,  and  be  merr>. 

But  God  said  unto  him,  Thou  fool, 
this  night  thy  soul  shall  be  required 
of  thee:  then  whose  shall  those  things 
be,  which  thou  hast  provided? 


done  abominable  works,  there  is 
none  that  doeth  good.  The  Lord 
looked  down  from  heaven  upon  the 
children  of  men,  to  see  if  there 
were  any  that  did  understand,  and 
seek  God.  They  are  all  gone  aside, 
they  are  all  together  become  filthy : 
there  is  none  that  doeth  good,  no, 
not  one." 

I  trust  we  are  beyond  and  above 
this  dreadful  condition,  and  that  we 
(1o  know  that  our  Redeemer  lives, 
and  that  we  have  put  on  Christ,  and 
have  adopted  his  glorious  plan  of 
redemption  and  salvation  and  ex- 
altation beyond  the  grave. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem  :  "God 
is  our  refuge,"  and  conference  ad- 
journed until  2  p.  m. 

Prayer  by  Elder  David  H.  Can- 
non, of  St.  George. 


OVERFLOW  MEETING. 

An  overflow  meeting  of  the  con- 
ference was  held  in  the  Assembly 
Hall,  adjoining  the  Tabernacle,  at 
10  o'clock  a.  m.,  presided  over  by 
Elder  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  of 
the  First  Council  of  Seventy. 

Singing-  and  music  were  furnish- 
ed by  the  combined  choirs  of  Gran- 
ite stake,  Professor  Evan  Stephens, 
conductor. 

The  choir  sang:  "Guide  us,  O 
thou  great  Jehovah." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder 
Milando  Pratt. 

Singing:  "Rouse,  O  ye  mortals." 


I  cannot  refrain  from  mention-  ELDER  HUGH  J.  CANNON, 
ing  the    truth    that    was  enun- 
ciated thousands  of  years  ago  :  "The  (President  of  the  Liberty  Stake  of 
fool  hath  said  in  his  heart,  There  is 

no  God,"  and  therefore  no  here-  My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  earn- 
after.  "They  are  corrupt,  they  have  estly  solicit  an  interest  in  your  faith 


HUGH  J.  CANNON 


89 


and  prayers  during  the  short  time 
I  shall  endeavor  to  speak  to  you. 
The  task  of  speaking-  is  one  of  the 
difficult  tasks  which  I  have  to  per- 
form in  my  ecclesiastical  work.  I 
love  to  work  in  the  Church,  love  to 
go  out  as  a  ward  teacher,  and  to  la- 
bor as  best  I  can  among  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  but  whenever  a  call  sim- 
ilar to  this  comes  to  me,  T  feel  that 
it  is  utterly  impossible  for  me,  un- 
less the  Lord  will  listen  to  my 
prayers  and  the  prayers  of  those 
who  listen  to  me,  to  say  anything 
which  will  be  of  benefit  to  the  peo- 
ple. And  when  I  realize  that  the 
hundreds  of  people  who  are  here 
this  morning  have  come  many 
miles,  some  of  them,  to  hear  the 
word  of  the  Lord,  I  am  filled  with 
fear  and  trembling. 

I  have  dirtied  'this,  however,  in 
my  experience,  that  the  soul  that 
hungers  and  thirsts  after  right- 
eousness is  always  satisfied,  aand 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  who 
have  come  here  with  that  spirit, 
with  the  desire  to  be  renewed  in 
your  faith,  to  be  built  up  and  en- 
couraged in  your  efforts  to  serve 
the  Almighty,  will  receive  that  for 
which  you  cariie.  That  promise 
has  been  made  by  the  Almighty, 
and  is  manifest  so  often  that  no  ar- 
gument is  necessary  to  convince  the 
Latter-day  Saints  of  its  truthful- 
ness. 

I  was  impressed  this  morning  by 
the  prayer  which  was  offered,  first 
by  the  choir  and  this  congregation, 
and  then  bv  our  worthy  brother, 
Milando  Pratt.  I  am  sure  those  of 
you  who  entered  into  the  spirit  of 
the  hymn  which  was  sung  realize 
that  we  were  offering  a  united 
prayer  to  the  Almighty  for  our 
selves  and  for  the  world.  I  shall 
take  the  liberty  of  reading  the  last 
verse  of  the  hymn  which  was  sung: 


"When  the  earth  begins  to  tremble, 

Bid  our  fearful  thoughts  be  still. 
When  thy  judgments  spread  destruc- 
tions, 

Keep  us  safe  on  Zion's  Hill." 

•  I  can  think  of  no  more  proper 
prayer  to  be  offered  to  the  Al- 
mighty this  morning  by  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  than  the  prayer  con- 
tained in  this  hymn.  Certainly  the 
earth  is  beginning  to  tremble  and 
the  destructions  and  the  judgments 
of  the  Lord  are  spreading  in  the 
earth,  and  it  seems  a  very  fitting 
prayer  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
should  offer  that  we  may  keep  safe 
on  Zion's  hill. 

In  the  midst  of  all  these  fearful 
things  that  are  happening  in  the 
world  today,  the  Latter-day  Saints 
have  occasion  to  look  forward  with 
calmness  and  patience  and  faith  to 
the  future.  More  than  any  other 
people  in  the  world  today,  we  know 
that  the  Lord,  the  Almighty,  the 
Creator  of  this  universe,  is'  guiding 
and  directing  'the  affairs  of  the 
world.  These  things  „have  been 
predicted.  A  great  many  of  you 
brethren  have  been  out  in  the  world 
and  have  preached  that  the  very 
things  which  are  now  happening 
should  occur  unless  the  world 
would  repent  and  turn  a  listening 
ear  to  the  gospel  of  peace,  the  gos- 
pel of  salvation,  which  the  Al- 
mighty in  his  goodness  has  re- 
stored. We  have  been  preaching 
these  things  for  many  years.  Many 
hundreds  and  thousands  of  the 
elders  have  borne  this  testimony 
to  the  world,  and  now  we  are  per- 
mitted to  see  the  fulfilment  of  the 
message,  the  prediction  which  it 
was  our  duty  to  deliver  to  the 
world.  But  we,  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  have  no  occasion  to  fear, 
unless  our  own  lives  need  looking 
into. 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  was  impressed  with  the  thought 
expressed  by  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  I  think  that  it  was  in  the 
June  conference,  Young  Men's  and 
Young  Ladies'  conference,  though 
of  that  I  am  not  absolutely  sure. 
He  made  a  statement  to  this  effect. 
Many  people  are  fearful,  and  I  am 
asked  frequently  what  is  going  to 
be  the  outcome  of  the  terrible  oc- 
currences which  we  see  in  the  world 
today.  He  said :  "the  only  thing  I 
have  to  do,  and  the  only  thing  the 
Latter-day  Saints  have  to  do  is  to 
live  their  religion,  to  serve  the  Lord 
in  the  proper  spirit,  and  all  will  be 
well  with  them."  I  had  been  a  lit- 
tle pessimistic  up  to  that  moment, 
had  been  a  little  fearful  as  to  the 
final  outcome  of  this  terrible  strug- 
gle, not  that  I  felt  it  affected  us 
particularly,  but  I  looked  on  the 
dark  side  of  the  situation,  and  I  felt 
that  I  had  occasion  to  thank  the 
Lord  that  I  heard  the  testimony  of 
the  prophet  of  the  Almighty  on  this 
subject,  and  no  fear  has  been  in 
my  heart  from  that  day  to  this,  ex- 
cept the  fear  that  we  may  not  be 
able  to  so  order  our  lives  that  we 
can  claim  the  protection  and  the 
blessings  of  our  Father  in  heaven. 

I  know  that  the  hand  of  the 
Lord  is  over  this  people.  I  know 
that  if  we  will  pray  to  him  as  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  know  how  to  pray, 
the  prayer  that  this  hymn  contains, 
"when  the  earth  begins  to  tremble," 
we  have  no  need  to  fear.  If  we 
will  observe  the  laws  and  the  com- 
mandments which  the  Almighty  has 
given  us,  if  we  will  be  prayerful 
and  fumble,  the  Almighty  must 
surely  "keep  us  safe  on  Zion's  hill." 
Did  you  ever  think  of  the  power 
and  the  confidence  that  prayer 
gives  to  people.  We,  I  believe,  are 
■strong  as  ordinary  mortals  are.  The 
Latter-day  Saints   have  as  much 


physical  strength  and  moral  cour- 
age as  any  people  in  the  world.  We 
are  just  as  able  to  meet  difficulties 
and  hardships  and  trials  as  any 
people  that  lives  on  the  face  of  the 
earth,  and  in  addition  to  that  we 
have  the  reserve  strength,  the 
power  which  comes  from  faith  in 
the  Almighty,  the  assurance  that 
we  can  go  to  him  in  the  hour  of 
distress,  lay  our  burdens  upon  him 
and  know  that  we  will  be  relieved. 
Did  you  ever  stop  to  think  what  a 
source  of  power  and  strength  such 
faith  will  give  to  a  people?  That 
is  the  only  thing  that  enabled  the 
people  to  cross  the  plains  and  come 
into  this  country,  forbidding  and 
desolate  as  it  was  at  that  time ;  but 
they  knew  the  Lord  was  with  them, 
and  you  cannot  whip  a  people,  you 
cannot  conquer  a  people  that  has 
that  unconquerable  faith,  because 
when  disaster  overtakes  them,  they 
acknowledge  the  hand  of  the  Lord 
in  it,  possibly  feeling  that  it  has 
been  brought  upon  themselves  by 
their  own  misconduct.  But  they  go 
to  the  Lord  in  humility  and  pray 
for  strength  to  bear  their  burdens 
manfully  and  courageously ;  as  in 
times  of  prosperity,  they  thank  the 
Lord  for  the  blessings  they  enjoy. 
You  cannot  conquer  a  people  with 
that  sort  of  feeling.  It  is  utterly, 
absolutely  impossible.  So  I  repeat, 
the  Latter-day  Saints  can  ioeic  to 
the  future,  if  they  will  only  order 
their  lives  in  accordance  with  the 
principles  of  salvation  which  have 
been  revealed,  with  absolute  con- 
fidence, with  the  assurance  that  all 
will  come  out  well. 

Our  hearts  naturally  go  out  to 
our  fellow  men  who  are  suffering, 
those  who  are  hungry  and  cold, 
those  who  arc  suffering  mentally 
because  of  the  loss  of  their  homes 
or  their  dear  ones.    We  can  sym- 


ELDER  IV M.  H.  RICHARDS. 


91 


pathize  with  them.  We  can  shed 
tears  of  sympathy  for  our  fellow 
men,  but  that  feeling  does  not  nec- 
essarily have  to  be  mingled  with 
fear  for  ourselves.  I  think  we 
should  pray  for  the  world,  for 
those  who  are  in  distress. 

This  thing  touches  me,  I  believe, 
as  closely  as  anybody.  For  six 
years  I  labored  among  the  German 
people.  I  have  had  them  give  me 
their  last  crust  of  bread.  I  have 
had  them  give  me  their  bed,  and 
make  a  couch  for  themselves  on  the 
floor,  or  sit  up  in  a  chair,  not  that 
I  was  willing  to  take  these  things 
from  them,  but  they  felt  that  I  and 
my  companions  were  messengers 
of  the  Almighty,  and  they  felt  hon- 
ored to  do  these  things  for  us.  I 
have  advised  the  Saints  in  Ger- 
many, time  and  time  again,  as  have 
all  the  other  missionaries  who  have 
labored  there,  to  be  loyal  to  their 
country,  to  be  loyal  to  their  nation ; 
and  now  see  the  situation !  Your 
boys  and  mine  are  going  out  and 
trying  to  take  their  lives,  and  very 
properly  so ;  that  is,  I  mean,  when 
I  say  properly,  we  cannot  do  any- 
thing else !  We  have  got  to  be 
loyal  to  the  United  States.  But  a 
person  who  Jhas  received  at  the 
hands  of  the  German  people,  the 
poor  Latter-day  Saints  and  the 
honest  investigators  in  that  land, 
the  blessings  and  courtesies  which 
have  come  to  him  from  them,  can- 
not help  but  feel  sorrowful  and 
downcast  in  his  heart  when  he  sees 
the  sufferings  that  are  coming  up- 
on them. 

I  pray  the  Almighty  to  lighten 
the  burden  of  the  honest-hearted 
people  in  the  world.  I  pray  that 
the  Lord  will  give  success  to  the 
armies  of  the  United  States  and  the 
Allies,  that  this  thing  may  be  ter- 


minated, speedily  and  properly.  I 
pray  that  the  spirit  of  faith  and 
prayer  may  rest  upon  the  body  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  that  we  may 
grow  in  grace  and  in  faith,  with 
the  assurance  that  God  lives, 
ever  burning  in  our  hearts,  and 
become  stronger  from  day  to  day, 
that  we  may  all  know,  every  Lat- 
ter-day Saint,  that  the  Almighty 
stands  at  the  helm,  and  that  he  is 
directing  this  work,  and  that  he 
will  make  it  triumph  in  the  earth, 
because  he  has  promised  to  do  so. 
That  these  blessings  may  be  ours, 
I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  WILLIAM  H.  RICHARDS 

(President    of   the    Malad    Stake  of 
Zion.) 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
feel  somewhat  like  Brother  Cannon 
said  he  felt.  I  do  not  know  any 
other  position  in  the  Church  that  is 
as  difficult  for  me  to  occupy  as  this  ; 
but  he  has  had  a  little  the  advantage 
of  me — he  has  had  the  opportunity 
of  going  out  to  preach  the  gospel 
to  the  world.  That  opportunity  I 
have  never  had  yet;  and  for  that 
reason,  I  have  always  shunned  as 
much  as  possible  standing  before 
the  people  to  teach  the  principles  of 
eternal  truth. 

It  is  not  because  I  have  feared  in 
my  heart,  or  anything  of  that  kind, 
to  bear  my  testimony.  I  do  not 
know  of  an  opportunity  that  I  ever 
had  that  I  did  not  always  bear  my 
testimony  to  the  truthfulness  of  this 
work.  My  labor  has  been  at  home, 
though  I  often  wonder  in  my  own 
mind  what  the  brethren  have  seen 
in  me  to  put  me  in  the  positions 
that  I  have  occupied.  They  have 
generally  been  presiding  positions, 
and  I  have  always  taken  advantage 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


of  the  fact  and  induced  the  others 
to  do  the  work.  I  tried  as  hard  as 
I  possibly  could  to  get  one  of  my 
counselors  to  take  my  place  today, 
because  he  is  able ;  and  I  depend 
upon  my  counselors  to  a  great  ex- 
tent in  preaching  the  gospel  in  our 
stake. 

I  do  rejoice,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  in  the  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel. I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  that 
the  Lord  has  given  me  of  the  divin- 
ity of  this  work.  There  has  never 
been  a  doubt  in  my  mind  that  I  can 
remember  with  regard  to  the  di- 
vinity of  the  work  that  the  Lord 
has  established  for  the  salvation  of 
his  children  here  upon  the  earth ; 
and  I  have  never  been  in  a  place  in 
my  life  where  I  have  been  afraid  to 
bear  that  testimony.  I  have  had 
the  opportunity  to  go  amongst  peo- 
ple who  are  not  members  of  our 
Church,  and  labor  amongst  them  in 
different  ways,  and  I  do  not  know 
of  a  day  when  the  opportunity  ever 
came  when  I  was  afraid  in  bearing 
my  testimony  to  them  that  I  know 
that  the  gospel  is  true ;  and  in  talk- 
ing with  a  great  many  of  them  I 
have  often  thought  within  my  own 
mind,  that  if  I  could  explain  the 
gospel  as  it  appears  to  my  mind, 
that  I  could  convert  anybody  in  the 
world.  Those  are  the  thoughts  that 
generally  come  to  me  whenever 
contemplating  upon  the  principles 
of  eternal  truth  that  our  Father  in 
heaven  has  revealed  in  this  day. 

When  we  take  into  consideration, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  way 
that  this  Church  came  into  exist- 
ence, the  youth  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  and  his  illiteracy  as 
far  as  the  learning  of  the  world  is 
concerned — and  then  for  him  to 
bring  forth  such  a  great  and  mar- 
velous work  as  has  been  brought 


forth — it  seems  to  me  that  any  man 
that  will  contemplate  those  things 
will  have  to  come  to  the  conclusion 
that  this  indeed  is  the  work  of  God, 
and  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
must  have  been  assisted  by  some 
power  higher  than  man's. 

In  the  very  early  rise  of  the 
Church,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the 
revelation  was  given  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  to  the 
Church  that  a  great  and  a  marvel- 
ous work  was  about  to  come  forth 
among  the  children  of  men.  We 
today  have  lived  to  see  that  great 
and  marvelous  work  come  forth, 
and  today  we  can  all  testify  that 
that  prophecy  which  the  Prophet 
made,  that  revelation  which  was 
given  through  him  by  our  Father 
in  heaven,  has  been  literally  ful- 
filled. The  Church  today  is  a  great 
and  marvelous  work  in  the  eyes 
of  the  people,  and  we  all  notice 
that,  as  the  Savior  said,  "The  leaven 
of  the  gospel  will  leaven  the  whole 
lump" — that  it  might  be  compared 
to  a  woman  placing  leaven  in  three 
measures  of  flour,  and  that  it  would 
leaven  the  whole  lump.  Now,  I  be- 
lieve that  is  the  Condition,  today. 
The  world  is  looking  upon  the  gos- 
pel, and  is  adopting  a  great  many 
of  its  principles,  while  it  does  not 
recognize  them  as  coming  from  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

The  quotation  that  was  made  by 
Brother  Ballard  yesterday,  from  the 
speech  of  John  D.  Rockefeller,  Jr., 
looks  to  me  like  a  criterion  to  go  by. 
He  is  looking  forward  to  a  church 
which  a  great  many  of  the  wise 
men  of  the  world  are  looking  for- 
ward to — a  new  church  to  come 
forth  that  will  better  prepare  the 
people  for  an  exaltation  in  the 
kingdom  of  God.    It  seems  to  me 


ELDER  IV M.  H.  RICHARDS. 


93 


that  they  do  not  need  to  look 
further  than  the  valleys  of  the 
mountains,  amongst  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  believe  that  in  this 
Church  everything  necessary  for 
the  salvation  of  the  human  family 
is  contained.  I  do  not  know  of  any- 
thing- that  we  can  think  of  that 
would  be  of  benefit  to  us,  as  the 
children  of  our  Father  in  heaven, 
upon  the  earth,  but  what  is  incor- 
porated in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  My 
testimony  is  strong  as  far  as  that  is . 
concerned.  I  have  labored  in  the 
Church  from  the  time  I  was  quite 
a  young  boy.  I  have  been  con- 
tinually in  positions  in  this  Church, 
and  my  testimony  has  grown 
strong.  I  know,  beyond  any  doubt 
whatever,  that  this  is  the  work  of 
God,  that  we  are  engaged  in  a  work 
that  will  save  and  exalt  us  in  the 
kingdom  of  our  Father  in  heaven 
if  we  will  do  our  part. 
•  But  the  question  in  my  mind 
always  is,  as  I  say  to  our  people, 
the  only  question  that  should  be  in 
our  minds  should  be  whether  we  are 
■doing  our  part  or  not — whether  we 
are  standing  in  holy  places  as  we 
have  been  commanded  by  our 
Father  in  heaven,  when  the  judg- 
ments referred  to  by  our  Father  are 
being  poured  out  upon  the  children 
of  men.  Our  Father  in  heaven  has 
warned  us  of  these  things.  I  was 
talking  to  a  friend  yesterday,  and  I 
said,  "These  things  should  not  stun 
us  very  hard,  because  we  have  been 
looking  forward  for  them ;  the 
prophets  all  the  way  along  the  line 
have  declared  that  these  things 
would  take  place,  and  that  the  only 
way  of  escape  from  them  is  by 
yielding  obedience  to  the  principles 
of  eternal  truth,  which  our  Father 
in  heaven  has  revealed  for  men,  re- 


quiring them  to  turn  from  their 
sins,  and  serve  God,  and  keep  his 
commandments." 

We  realize,  as  a  people,  that  if  we 
could  persuade  the  nations  of  the 
earth  to  accept  the  principles  of  the 
gospel,  and  turn  from  the  errors  of 
their  ways,  that  these  judgments 
would  be  averted.  At  least,  we  have 
instances  of  this  kind  on  record. 
When  Jonah  was  sent  to  Nineveh 
to  declare  unto  the  people  that 
unless  they  repented  of  their  sins 
and  turned  from  the  error  of  their 
ways,  that  that  great  city  would  be 
destroyed,  we  all  remember  how 
Jonah  feared  to  go  there,  and  he 
felt  in  his  heart  that  possibly  those 
things  would  not  take  place.  But 
he  had  to  go,  and  the  people  lis- 
tened to  his  instructions,  turned 
from  the  error  of  their  ways,  and 
escaped  that  great  judgment.  We 
are  told  that  they  repented  in  sack- 
cloth and  ashes.  I  said  that  that 
would  save  the  world  today. 

I  have  no  doubt  in  my  mind  at 
all,  but  that  if  the  nations  of  the 
earth  would  turn  from  the  error 
of  their  ways  and  seek  to  serve  God 
and  keep  his  commandments,  that 
those  judgments  which  are  now 
poured  out  would  be  avoided.  I 
remember  talking  with  one  of  the 
wisest  of  men,  as  far  as  the  learn- 
ing of  the  world  is  concerned,  time 
and  time  again.  His  parents  came 
from  the  old  country  for  the  gos- 
pel's sake.  He  had  become  some- 
what skeptical  in  regard  to  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  gospel,  and  a  short 
time  ago  I  was  talking  to  him  with 
regard  to  them,  and  he  declared  to 
me:  "I  did  not  believe  that  any 
such  a  war  could  take  place."  I  said 
to  him :  "You  people  who  are  so 
wise  in  the  things  of  the  world  did 
not  believe  that  those  things  would 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


take  place,  but  those  who  are  fool- 
ish enough  to  believe  in  the  proph- 
ecies of  the  prophets  and  the  things 
that  they  told  us,  they  told  you 
right  along  all  the  time  that  these 
things  would  come."  In  order  to 
get  out  of  it,  he  said,  "Wars  gen- 
erally come  every  forty  or  fifty 
years,  anyhow."  And  I  said,  "You 
wise  men  of  the  world  were  going 
to  prevent  them — they  never  could 
happen  again." 

These  things  are  testimonies  to 
us  that  we  are  engaged  in  the  work 
of  the  Lord,  and  I  pray  God  to 
bless  us  each  and  every  one,  that 
we  may  do  our  part,  as  far  as  we 
possibly  can,  to  get  the  people  to 
stand  in  holy  places,  that  we  may 
avoid  the  judgments  which  the 
Lord  is  pouring  out  upon  the  peo- 
ple. May  God  bless  us  to  this  end, 
I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

A  duet,  entitled,  "The  morning 
breaks,  the  shadows  flee,"  was  sung 
by  Noall  Pratt,  and  Professor  Evan 
Stephens. 

I 

ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT. 

(President  of  the  Mexican  Mission.) 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  feeling 
that  has  been  uppermost  in  my 
mind  since  the  opening  of  this  con- 
ference, has  been  that  of  gratitude 
and  thankfulness  to  the  Lord  for 
his  many  blessings  unto  us  as  a 
people.  I  feel  very  thankful  this 
morning  to  have  the  privilege  of 
standing  before  you  and  of  bear- 
ing my  testimony  concerning  the 
divinity  of  the  work  that  we  are 
engaged  in.  I  am  thankful  to  the 
Lord  for  the  instructions,  counsel 
and  admonitions  that  we  have  re- 
ceived  throughout  the  conference 


thus  far,  and  I  feel  especially  thank- 
ful to  the  Lord  that  we  have  such 
noble  and  inspired  man  to  guide 
and  teach  us.  I  am  thankful  to  the 
Lord  that  the  gospel,  with  all  of 
the  powers  and  authority  that  have 
ever  pertained  to  it  in  any  time  of 
the  world's  history,  is  here  with  us 
today.  I  am  thankful  for  the  life 
of  our  beloved  President,  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  and  that  the  Lord  has 
abundantly  strengthened  him  and 
blessed  him  thus  far  during  this 
conference.  And  I  feel  that  our 
hearts  should  go  out  in  faith  and 
prayer  to  the  Lord  to  strengthen 
him  and  heal  him  wherein  he  is 
afflicted,  and  grant  that  he  may 
live  yet  many  years  to  be  our  leader 
and  the  mouthpiece  of  the  Lord 
unto  his  people. 

We  are  living  in  a  momentous 
time.  We  are  living  in  the  times, 
as  has  been  stated  here  this  morn- 
ing, of  the  fulfilment  of  the  prom- 
ises and  prophecies  of  the  Lord. 
As  has  been  intimated,  we  the 
elders  of  the  Church  who  have 
been  called  into  the  mission  field, 
have  for  many  years  quoted  these 
prophecies  and  called  upon  the  pe- 
ple  of  the  earth  to  repent  of  their 
sins  if  they  wished  to  avert  the  ca- 
lamities that  the  Lord  had  predict- 
ed would  be  poured  clown  upon  the 
people  in  the  event  that  they  con- 
tinued in  their  wickedness.  I  thank 
the  Lord  that  there  are  thousands 
of  people  among  the  nations  of  the 
earth  whose  hearts  have  been 
touched  and  who  have  listened  to 
the  testimonies  of  the  elders,  have 
investigated  the  principles  of  the 
gospel,  repented  of  their  sins  and 
gathered  out,  and  who  are  today 
striving  to  live  in  harmony  with  the 
teachings  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.      There    are  many 


REY  L.  PRATT. 


95 


thousands  of  people  in  the  world 
yet  who  are  investigating,  who  have 
not  yet  received  the  gospel,  that  I 
think  will  do  so,  and  I  quite  agree 
with  what  has  been  said  at  some  of 
the  sessions  of  the  conference  that 
we  are  attending,  that  there  is  quite 
a  general  spirit  of  investigation,  of 
humility,  of  prayer  coming  over  the 
nations  of  the  earth  and  the  peoples 
therein,  and  I  feel  that  many  will 
be  touched  in  their  hearts  and  many 
will  cry,  who  have  not  yet  done  so, 
to  the  elders  of  the  Church,  just  as 
the  multitudes  cried  to  Peter  and 
his  brethren  in  times  of  old,  "Men 
and  brethren,  what  shall  we  do?" 
And  the  only  answer  that  can  be 
given  them  is  the  one  that  was 
given  by  Peter  to  the  multitudes  on 
the  occasion  to  which  I  refer,  when 
he  said :  "Repent  and  be  baptized, 
every  one  of  you,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ  for  the  remission  of 
your  sins."  That  is  the  message  of 
"Mormonism"  to  the  world  today, 
the  message  of  faith  in  God,  a  God 
in  whose  image  we  are  made.  And 
to  repent  of  our  sins,  not  with  the 
repentance  that  it  is  needful  to  re- 
pent of  tomorrow,  in  that  we  turn 
again  to  our  sins,  but  the  absolute 
forsaking  of  sin  and  turning  to  a 
righteous  life.  Baptism  is  essential 
on  our  behalf  that  we  may  be 
washed  clean  and  be  made  pure  and 
receive  a  remission  of  our  sins,  and 
through  that  door,  enter  into  the 
kingdom  of  our  Father  in  heaven ; 
and  the  promise  that  was  made  of 
old  stands  good  today,  that  all 
those  who  do  so  would  receive  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  This,  I 
testify  to  you  is  a  reality.  I  have 
seen  its  influence  come  upon  many 
people  in  the  world,  and  their  lives, 
through  its  influence,  have  been 
fortified  against  evil  and  they  have 


been  able  to  withstand  persecution, 
overcome  temptation,  and  live,  even 
in  the  midst  of  Babylon,  the  lives 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

We  are  living  in  a  time  predicted 
of  old.  If  you  will  refer  to  the 
24th  chapter  of  Matthew,  you  will 
observe  in  the  words  of  our  Savior, 
some  of  the  signs  that  should  come 
unto  the  world  that  would  indicate 
his  second  coming  was  close  at 
hand.  I  shall  not  refer  to  them 
all,  but  wish  bo  call  your  attention 
to  this  particular  sign  that  he  gave, 
and  that  when  there  should  be  wars, 
and  during  a  time  such  as  we  see 
at  the  present  time,  with  pestilence 
and  earthquakes  and  destruction  in 
different  parts  of  the  world,  that 
many  should  rise  up  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord,  some  even  claiming  to 
be  the  Savior  of  the  world,  and  that 
many  false  prophets  should  arise, 
and  that  they  should  deceive  many. 
Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  we  en- 
counter, as  we  travel  through  the 
world,  people  who  will  quote  this 
scripture  to  us  and  claim  that  our 
prophets,  those  whom  we  claim  to 
be  prophets  raised  up  and  endowed 
with  power  in  these  last  days  to  or- 
ganize the  Church  and  establish  the 
gospel  in  the  earth,  are  those  who 
are  the  false  prophets  of  whom  the 
people  are  warned  to  beware.  But, 
prior  to  that  time,  the  Savior  gave 
to  the  people  a  key  by  which  they 
might  know  as  to  the  divinity  of  a 
prophet,  and  he  warned  them  to 
"beware  of  wolves  in  sheep's  cloth- 
ing," and  he  said,  ''By  their  fruits 
shall  ye  know  them." 

Now,  our  prophet  has  warned  us 
during  this  conference,  along  cer- 
tain lines.  He  spoke  concerning 
the  Word  of  Wisdom.  I  should 
like  to  read  to  you  today  that  proph- 
ecy, or  that  word  of  the  Lord  as  it 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


came  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  eighty-five  years  ago.  I  call 
attention  to  the  fact  that  scientific 
research  and'  the  scientists  of  thje 
earth  have  never  from  that  day  to 
this,  found  one  thing  concerning 
the  laws  of  health  and  those  things 
that  were  good  and  those  that  were 
not  good  for  man,  that  has  contra- 
dicted, in  any  sense,  the  word  of 
the  Lord  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 
On  the  other  hand,  we  find  nations 
who  are  steeped  in  the  vices  con- 
demned in  this  .scripture,  and  peo- 
ples who  thought  that  they  could 
not  live  without  partaking  of  these 
things,  that  have  universally  risen 
up  and  condemned  the  very  things 
that  they  upheld  before,  and  that, 
in  accordance  with  this  scripture  as 
revealed  to  us  through  the  prophet 
of  the  Lord. 

If  this  were  all  that  we  had,  and 
it  is  not,  for  we  have  very  much 
more  that  corroborates  the  fact  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  inspired  of  God ; 
but  if  this  were  all,  we  might  very 
justly  lay  claim  to  the  fact  that 
.Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of 
God.  I  shall  read  this  Word  of 
Wisdom : 

1.  A  Word  of  Wisdom,  for  the 
benefit  of  the  Counch  of  High  Priests, 
assembled  in  Kirtland,  and  church: 
and  also  the  saints  of  Zion. 

2.  To  be  sent  greeting — not  by 
commandment  or  constraint,  but  by 
revelation  and  the  word  of  wisdom, 
showing  forth  the  order  and  will  of 
God  in  the  temporal  salvation  of  all 
saints  in  the  last  days. 

3.  Given  for  a  principle  with  prom- 
ise, adapted  to  the  capacity  of  the 
weak  and  the  weakest  of  all  saints, 
who  are  or  can  be  called  saints. 

4.  Behold,  verily,  thus  saith  the 
Lord  unto  you,  in  consequence  of 
evils  and  designs  which  do  and  will 
exist  in  the  hearts  of  conspiring  men 
in  the  last  days,  I  have  warned  you, 
and  forewarn  you,  by  giving  unto  you 
this  word  of  wisdom  by  revelation, 


5.  That  inasmuch  as  any  man 
drinketh  wine  or  strong  drink  among 
you,  behold  it  is  not  good,  neither 
meet  in  the  sight  of  your  Father,  only 
in  assembling  yourselves  together  to 
offer  up  your  sacraments  before  him. 

6.  And,  behold,  this  should  be 
wine,  yea,  pure  wine  of  the  grape  of 
the  vine,  of  your  own  make. 

7.  And,  again,  strong  drinks  are 
not  for  the  belly,  but  for  the  washing 
of  your  bodies. 

8.  And  again,  tobacco  is  no  for  the 
body,  .neither  for  the  belly,  and  is  not 
good  for  man,  but  is  an  herb  for 
bruises  and  all  sick  cattle,  to  be  used 
with  judgment  and  skill. 

9.  And  again,  hot  drinks  are  not 
for  the  body  or  belly. 

10.  And  again,  verily  I  say  unto 
you,  all  wholesome  herbs  God  hath 
ordained  for  the  constitution,  nature, 
and  use  of  man. 

11.  Every  herb  in  the  season  there- 
of, and  every  fruit  in  the  season 
thereof;  all  these  to  be  used  with  pru- 
dence and  thanksgiving. 

12.  Yea,  flesh  also  of  beasts  and  of 
the  fowls  of  the  air,  I,  the  Lord,  have 
ordained  for  the  use  of  man  with 
thanksgiving:  nevertheless  they  are  to 
be  used  sparingly: 

13.  And  it  is  pleasing  unto  me  that 
they  should  not  be  used  only  in  times 
of  winter,  or  of  cold,  or  famine. 

14.  All  grain  is  ordained  for  the 
use  of  man  and  of  beasts,  to  be  the 
staff  of  life,  not  only  for  man  but  for, 
the  beasts  of  the  field,  and  the  fowls' 
of  heaven,  and  all  wild  animals  that 
run  or  creep  on  the  earth: 

15.  And  these  hath  God  made  for 
the  use  of  man  only  in  times  of  famine 
and  excess  of  hunger. 

16.  All  grain  is  good  for  the  food 
of  man,  as  also  the  fruit  of  the  vine, 
that  which  yieldeth  fruit,  whether  in 
the  ground  or  above  the  ground. 

17.  Nevertheless,  wheat  for  man, 
and  corn  for  the  ox,  and  oats  for  the 
horse,  and  rye  for  the  fowls  and  for 
swine,  and  for  all  beasts  of  the  field, 
and  barley  for  all  uesful  animals,  and 
for  mild  drinks,  as  also  other  grain. 

18.  And  all  saints  who  remember 
to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking 
in  obedience  to  the  commandments, 
shall  receive  health  in  their  navel,  and 
marrow  to  their  bones,        '   •  , 

19.  And  shall    find     wisdom  and 


REY  L.  PRATT. 


97 


great  treasures  of  knowledge  even 
bidden  treasures: 

20.  And  shall  run  and  not  be 
weary,  and  shall  walk  and  not  faint: 

21.  And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto 
them  a  promise,  that  the  destroying 
angel  shall  pass  by  them,  as  the  chil- 
dren of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them. 
Amen. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  we 
know  that  we  are  taught  not  to 
drink  strong"  drinks.  We  know  that 
in  our  nation,  many  of  the  states 
have  become  "dry"  because  they 
have  become  convinced  of  the  fact 
that  this  is  truth  and  that  strong 
drinks  are  not  good  for  man.  Our 
navy  abolished  strong  drinks  be- 
cause it  increased  the  strength  and 
efficiency  of  our  sailors  to  be  with- 
out liquor.  At  the  time  this  reve- 
lation was  given  it  was  thought 
that  men  could  not  fight  without 
their  measure  of  grog ;  also  the  best 
scientific  research  in  the  country 
has  demonstrated  beyond  a  .doubt, 
the  fact  that  the  use  of  tobacco  is 
injurious  to  all  those  who  partici- 
pate in  its  use.  We  find  that  sci- 
ence has  shown  in  corroboration  of 
this  revelation  that  much  meat  is 
detrimental  to  the  human  system, 
Darticularlv  if  used  in  time  of  heat. 
We  have  found  not  only  this,  but 
we  are  today  curtailing  the  appe- 
tites of  the  people  at  home  that  we 
might  send  wheat  abroad  to  our 
allies  and  soldiers  for  the  world  has 
discovered  that  the  best  grain  for 
the  use  of  man,  where  men  are  put 
to  the  .severest  test,  is  the  grain 
that  the  Lord  revealed  to  Joseph 
Smith  as  the  grain  designed  for  the 
use  of  man.  There  were  experi- 
ments made  in  the  early  stages  of 
the  war  with  different  grains,  and  I 
read  an  article  wherein  it  stated 
that  wheat  was  demonstrated  to  be 
superior  as  a  food  to   any  other 


grain,  under  the  trying  circum- 
stances that  men  are  put  to  in  the 
trenches  and  in  the  battles  of  Eu- 
rope. These  things  should  make  us 
think — they  are  in  accord  with  the 
words  of  the  Prophet  whom  the 
Lord  has  raised  up  in  these  last 
days,  and  I  bear  you  my  testimony 
that  he  was  a  prophet  of  the  Lord, 
and  we  should  follow  his  counsel 
and  his  admonition.  And  now,  if  he 
was  a  prophet  of  the  Lord,  the  one 
that  stands  at  the  head  of  the 
Church  today  is  just  as  much  so  as 
he  was. 

We  are  facing  a  critical  condi- 
tion in  the  world's  history.  There 
is  a  scarcity  of  food.  There  is  hun- 
ger. There  is  starvation  in  the 
world.  Thousands  of  people  who 
are  not  of  this  Nation  but  are  of 
other  nations  are  starving  to  death 
today.  They  need  food,  and  the 
prophet  of  the  Lord  has  told  us 
that  it  is  our  duty  to  raise  food,  to 
raise  grain,  to  conserve  our  re- 
sources. This  is  just  as  much  the 
word  of  the  Lord  to  Israel  today  as 
is  the  prophecy  that  I  have  read 
concerning  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 
One  of  the  things  that  makes  me  so 
thankful  today,  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, is  to  see  your  full  faces,  show- 
ing you  are  well  nourished  and  con- 
tented, that  you  are  not  in  want,  for 
very  recently,  in  fact  for  three 
months  during  this  past  winter  I 
have  been  traveling  in  the  land  to 
the  .south  of  us,  even  in  the  land  of 
Mexico,  and  there  I  have  seen  the 
effects  of  war.  The  people  in  Mex- 
ico, not  one  or  two  or  three  or  sev- 
eral hundred  or  thousand,  but  thou- 
sands of  people  there  today  are 
nearly  starved  to  death  as  a  result 
of  the  war  that  has  existed  in  that 
land  for  seven  years.  It  is  not  due 
to  the  fact  that  Mexico  is  non-pro- 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ductive.  It  is  not  due  to  the  fact 
that  the  people,  as  is  generally  con- 
sidered or  thought,  would  rather 
fight  than  work,  but  due  to  the 
fact  that  conditions  have  not  been 
such  that  they  have  been  able  to  till 
the  soil  and  raise  crops.  An  em- 
bargo has  been  placed  against  any 
food  exportation  into  Mexico.  And 
as  I  traveled  down  into  that  coun- 
try, I  saw  thousands  of  people  come 
to  the  side  of  the  train  at  places 
where  we  stopped,  and  beg  for  any- 
thing that  would  appease  the  pangs 
of  hunger,  and  I  think  I  can  sense 
more .  fully  than  I  have  heretofore, 
what  is  going  on  in  Europe  when 
we  hear  of  the  sufferings  of  the 
Belgians,  the  Serbians,  the  Rou- 
manians, and  other  peoples  over 
there,  and  I  imagine  that  I  can  see 
them  today,  just  as  I  saw  the  little 
Mexican  children,  starving  to  death. 

You  cannot  conceive  of  it,  even 
if  I  told  you.  Mothers  with  clothes 
ragged  and  torn,  their  own  flesh 
drawn  to  the  bone,  holding  little 
children,  reduced  to  mere  skeletons, 
their  heads  wobbling,  scarce  held 
up  by  an  almost  bare  spinal  col- 
umn. Many  of  them  die  dailv.  One 
old  man  came  to  me  whom  I  knew 
four  and  a  half  years  ago.  He  was 
reduced  almost  to  a  skeleton.  He 
said,  "I  am  near  starvation,  and 
need  help."  And  as  he  sat  before 
me,  he"  said,  ''Brother  Pratt,  you 
don't  know  what  it  is  to  be  hungry." 
T  believed  him.  I  believe  you  don't 
know  what  it  is  to  be  hungry.  My 
little  children  don't  know  wbat  it  is 
to  be  hungry.  Thank  the  Lord, 
they  have  ravenous  appetites.  I 
have,  you  have,  but  we  don't  know 
what  hunger  is  until  hunger  pinches 
the  flesh  off  our  bones. 

I  was  thankful  the  night  I  came 
home  from  Mexico.    I  have  eight 


little  children  where  I  live,  and 
every  one  was  glad  to  see  me.  They 
piled  all  over  me,  and  I  sat  there 
and  loved  them  and  kissed  them, 
and  thanked  God  that  their  little 
faces  were  full ;  and  I  pray  to  God 
that  the  war  may  never  bring  to  us 
the  suffering"  and  starvation  that 
has  come  to  that  people  in  Mexico 
and  to  other  peoples  of  the  world. 
x<\nd  I  want  to  tell  you  the  way  we 
can  avert  it.  The  way  we  can  avert 
it  is  to  live  as  the  Prophet  of  the 
Lord  has  told  us  to  live.  V/e  want 
to  get  behind  this ;  we  want  to  raise 
breadtsuff ,  we  want  to  raise  wheat ; 
we  want  to  raise  beets  for  sugar ; 
we  want  to  curtail  our  appetites  in 
things  that  do  not  count.  We  want 
to  buy  War  Savings  stamps  and 
Liberty  Bonds.  We  want  to  save 
and  provide  our  soldiers  who  have 
gone  abroad  to  fight  for  liberty, 
and  give  them  that  which  they  must 
have  to  live.  That  is  why  we  are 
doing  these  things. 

The  Lord  has  said  that  this  is  a 
land  of  promise,  a  land  blessed 
above  all  other  lands  upon  the  face 
of  the  earth,  and  he  has  given  great 
and  marvelous  promises  to  those 
whom  he  has  brought  here ;  and  he 
said  we  should  have  peace  if  we 
would  do  certain  things.  I  want  to 
tell  you,  if  we  want  to  have  what 
is  coming  to  us  as  the  people  of  the 
Lord,  if  we  want  to  be  blessed  as 
we  always  have  been  and  are,  if  we 
want  to  have  our  children  around 
us  at  night  full  and  rosy,  we  must 
live  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  thank  the  Lord  that  the  great 
Naton,  the  United  States,  is  wak- 
ing up  in  vital  things.  I  thank  the 
Lord  that  they  are  curtailing  the 
use  of  intoxicating  liquor.  I  thank 
the  Lord  for  the  prospect  of  nation- 
wide prohibition.    I  thank  the  Lord 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT. 


99 


for  the  noble  work  that  the  .depart- 
ments of  this  government  are  doing 
in  regard  to  curtailing  vice  in  the 
vicinity  of  our  great  cantonments, 
inasmuch  as  the  boys  don't  restrain 
themselves  of  their  own  volition. 
They  are  making  of  the  men  of  this 
nation  a  virtuous  army,  and  they 
are  striving  to  curtail  and  keep 
within  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord,  and  make  us  a  people  that 
will  conserve  this  land  to  us  as  the 
most  blessed  land  in  all  the  world. 

I  dont'  want  to  trespass  upon 
your  time,  but  I  wish  to  read  to 
you  in  conclusion,  the  word  of  the 
Lord,  as  it  came  to  the  brother  of 
Jared,  concerning  this  land,  when  he 
came  here  so  many  years  ago,  and 
the  Lord  showed  to  him  how  he 
might  dwell  here  in  peace  and  con- 
tentment and  happiness : 

And  he  had  sworn  in  nis  wrath  unto 
the  brother  of  Jared,  that  whoso 
should  possess  this  land  of  promise, 
from  that  time  henceforth  and  for- 
ever, should  serve  him,  the  true  and 
only  God,  or  they  should  be  swept  off 
when  the  fulness  of  his  wrath  should 
come  upon  them. 

And  now  we  can  behold  the  decrees 
of  God  concerning  this  land,  that  it  is 
a  land  of  promise,  and  whatsoever  na- 
tion shall  possess  it,  shall  serve  God, 
or  they  shall  be  swept  ,off  when  the 
fulness  of  his  wrath  shall  come  upon 
them.  And  the  fulness  of  his  wrath 
cometh  upon  them  when  they  are 
ripened  in  iniquity: 

For  behold,  this  is  a  land  which  is 
choice  above  all  other  lands:  where- 
fore he  that  doth  possess  it  shall  serve 
God,  or  shall  be  swept  off:  for  it  is 
the  everlasting  decree  of  God.  And 
it  is  not  until  the  fulness  of  iniquity 
among  the  children  of  the  land,  that 
they  are  swept  off. 

And  this  cometh  unto  you,  O  ye 
Gentiles,  that  ye  may  know  the  de- 
crees of  God,  that  ye  may  repent,  and 
not  continue  in  your  iniquities  until 
the  fulness  come,  that  ye  may  not 
bring  down  the  fulness  .of  the  wrath 
of  God  upon  you,  as  the  inhabitants 
of  the  land  hath  hitherto  done. 


And  in  passing  I  will  say  that  the 
Jaredite  people  forsook  this  counsel 
and  brought  down  the  wrath  of 
God  upon  this  land,  and  were  abso- 
lutely and  utterly  wiped  off  .the 
face  of  the  land  because  of  their 
iniquity,  and  such  was  the  case  in 
regard  to  the  Nephite  people.  They, 
too.  because  of  their  iniquity,  even 
though  they  had  the  prophets  of 
the  Lord  to  teach  them  to  the  very 
last  and  to  call  them  to  repentance, 
became  so  ripened  in  iniquity  that 
the  Lord  fulfilled  his  word  and 
wiped  them  off  the  face  of  the  land. 
It  should  be  a  warning  to  us. 

Behold,  this  is  a  choice  land,  and 
whatsoever  nation  shall  possess  it, 
shall  be  free  from  bondage,  and  from 
captivity,  and  from  all  other  nations 
under  heaven,  if  they  will  but  serve 
the  God  of  the  land,  who  is  Jesus 
Christ,  who  hath  been  manifested  by 
the  things  which  we  have  written. 

Now,  we  have  this  as  a  standing 
promise,  and  I  am  sure  that  as  long 
a.s  the  people  of  this  land  preserve 
their  virtue  and  integrity,  this  land 
shall  be  free  from  all  other  nations 
of  the  earth.  We  need  have  no 
fear  from  Germany  other  than  the 
fear  that  naturally  creeps  into  our 
hearts  at  having  our  sons  killed  at 
their  hands  over  there ;  but  as  far 
as  their  invading  America  and  com- 
ing over  to  rule  over  this  land,  it 
shall  never  be,  so  long  as  we  ac- 
knowledg'e  the  hand  of  the  Lord 
and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  or  so 
long  as  we  serve  the  God  who  rules 
over  these  nations.  Is  it  worth  the 
while  ?  is  it  worth  the  price  ?  Would 
you  like  to  see  come  to  you  and 
yours  what  has  come  to  the  Bel- 
gians, the  French,  the  Serbians,  the 
Roumanians,  and  all  those  who 
have  been  overrun  by  the  power  of 
a  tyrannical  autocracy?    I  do  not 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


condemn  the  German  people  indi- 
vidually ;  but  I  condemn  the  spirit 
that  is  the  curse  of  the  world  today, 
and  that  would  enslave  all  the  in- 
habitants of  the  earth.  I  would 
rather  give  my  body  and  my  son's 
body  and  my  race  than  to  see  them 
dominate  and  come  over  here  and 
usurp  our  rights  and  tyrannize  over 
us ;  but  I  would  rather  avert  it  by 
the  simple  means  the  Lord  has 
given  us,  even  that  of  living  accord- 
ing to  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord.  His  commandments  are  to- 
day to  abstain  from  evil,  to  produce 
food,  and  to  raise  that  which  is  nec- 
essary to  maintain  life.  Let  us 
hearken  to  the  words  of  the  Lord, 
and  let  us  go  hence  and  carry  to 
the  people  these  instructions.  Let 
us  he  Latter-day  Saints,  and  live 
each  day  in  harmony  with  the  will 
of  the  Lord  as  it  is  made  manifest 
to  us. 

In  conclusion,  I  testify  to  you 
that  I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know 
that  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  came  to 
the  world  in  very  .deed,  and  is  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world.  I  know 
that  Joseph  Smith  received  a  visi- 
tation from  them,  and  later  from 
Peter,  James  and  John,  and  re- 
ceived the  authority  to  establish  the 
Lord's  work  in  these  last  days.  I 
know  that  those  who  have  succeed- 
ed him  in  the  First  Presidency  of 
the  Church  have  held  the  same  au- 
thority, and  I  testify  to  you  that  I 
know  that  Joseph  F.  Smith,  who 
stands  at  the  head  of  the  Church  to- 
day, is  the  mouthpiece  of  God  to  all 
the  peoples  of  the  earth.  May  the 
Lord  bless  us,  is  my  prayer,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  song,  entitled,  "The  Pioneer," 
was  sung  by  Don  C.  Priestly,  the 
singing  being  preceded  by  an  ex- 


planation given  by  Professor  Evan 
Stephens,  who  said: 

"I  know  it  is  unusual  to  make  ex- 
planations before  singing  a  song; 
but  I  feel  that  you  will  get  more 
benefit  if  I  say  a  word  about  this 
one.  It  is  an  attempt  to  represent 
the  feelings  of  President  Brigham 
Young,  when  he  first  looked  upon 
this  beautiful  valley  where  we  are 
now  making  our  homes.  The  first 
portion  is  to  represent  him  when  he 
looked  out  upon  the  valley ;  the  sec- 
ond, the  thoughts  of  the  trials  which 
they  had  passed  through ;  and  the 
third,  the  culmination,  centers 
around  the  idea  expressed  when  he 
said,  'This  is  the  place !'  " 

ELDER  JOSEPH  R.  MURDOCK. 

(President  of  the  Wasatch  Stake  of 
Zion) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel' 
with  all  my  heart  that  the  prayer 
which  was  offered  at  the  opening 
of  these  services  has  been  literally 
fulfilled,  wherein  Brother  Pratt  ex- 
pressed the  thought  that  we  had 
met  here  to  have  our  spiritual  faith 
renewed,  and  to  be  strenguiiened 
in  the  gospel  of  Christ,  I  feel  that 
that  has  been  a  condition  that  has 
existed  on  this  occasion,  and  I  be- 
lieve it  exists  because  those  who  are 
assembled  here  have  asked  of  our 
Father  in  their  hearts  that  it  should 
be,  and  he  has  promised  us  from 
the  earliest  existence  of  this  Church 
that  those  who  ask  shall  receive, 
those  who  knock,  it  shall  be  opened 
unto  them.  He  that  lacketh  wis- 
dom, we  learn  from  the  testimony 
and  the  experience  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  in  the  words  of  James, 
Let  him  ask  of  God,  who  giveth 
liberally  to  all  men,  and  it  shall  be 
given.  And  God  has  poured  out  his 


JOSEPH  R.  MURDOCK 


101 


Spirit  upon  us  in  testimony  and  in 
nrophecy  upon  this  occasion,  which 
must  be  truly  gratifying  to  the 
heart  of  every  Latter-day  Saint 
who  has  listened  to  it.  It  has 
caused,,  no  doubt,  in  many  in- 
stances, our  hearts  to  go  out  in  sym- 
pathy for  the  sufferings  of  those 
throughout  the  world  who  have 
not,  and  whose  parents  have  not, 
accepted  the  gospel,  and  for  the 
tribulations  and  sorrow  that  come 
to  them.  It  makes  it  even  griev- 
ous for  us  to  bear  and  consider.  It 
reminds  me  of  one  of  the  sayings 
of  the  Savior,  wherein  he  said : 
"How  oft  would  I  have  gathered 
you  as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chick- 
ens, but  ye  would  not."  Is  that 
not  the  testimony  that  could  be 
borne  by  our  elders  who  have  gone 
into  the  south  country  (Mexico), 
as  Brother  Pratt  has  explained,  and 
into  the  foreign  countries  across 
the  sea,  and  preached  to  them  the 
humble  doctrine  of  Jesus  Christ,  of 
faith,  repentance,  humility,  and  of 
serving  God  and  keeping  his  com- 
mandments? But  through  the  pride 
of  their  hearts  they  have  rejected 
the  counsel  of  God  against  them- 
selves, and  now  they  suffer  the  con- 
sequences. Our  hearts  freely  go 
out  in  sympathy  for  them,  and  if 
we  could,  we  would  do  all  that  lies 
in  our  power  to  help  them,  and 
there  is  yet  a  chance  to  help  them. 

The  Savior,  when  he  was  asked 
by  his  disciples  at  Jerusalem,  when 
he  was  speaking  of  the  destruction 
of  the  temple  and  of  his  second 
coming,  or  what  I  think  is  termed 
the  end  of  the  world,  said  that  such 
tribulations,  speaking  of  his  com- 
ing, shall  be  as  never  was  before  or 
never  shall  be.  And  do  we  not  find 
that  the  testimony  of  all  writers 
and  historians,  acquainted  with  the 


history  of  the  world,  is  that  such 
tribulations  never  did  exist  before 
as  are  existing  at  the  present  time? 
And  where  is  the  renedy  ?  The  Lord 
has  said  that  if  it  were  not  for  the 
elect,  no  flesh  would  be  saved,  and 
if  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  not 
the  elect  the  doctrine  which  they 
preach  is  not  the  doctrine  of  Christ. 
They  are  nowhere  else  to  be  found 
upon  the  whole  face  of  the  earth ; 
and  if  we  are  the  elect,  and  for  our 
sake,  they  may  be  saved  of  their 
sufferings.  Is  it  not  our  duty  in 
great  faith  and  prayer  to  call  upon 
God  the  eternal  Father,  that  he  will 
overrule  the  destinies  of  nations  to 
the  end  that  the  righteous  may  be 
saved,  that  the  sins  of  the  fathers 
may  not  be  extended  many  gener- 
ations upon  their  children,  and  that 
their  children  may  be  saved  from 
these  terrible  conditions  existing 
almost  throughout  the  whole 
world  ? 

And  here  is  a  mission  for  us,  my 
brethren  and  sisters.  It  is  for  us 
to  importune  the  Almighty  in  faith 
and  in  prayer  for  their  sakes  and 
for  our  own  sake,  that  we  may  be 
the  elect,  that  we  may  have  power 
to  approach  our  heavenly  Father  in 
great  faith  and  humility. 

I  am  wondering,  when  I  think  of 
that,  how  can  we  approach  the  Al- 
mighty in  faith,  if  we  are  disre- 
garding his  commandments,  if  we 
are  still  using  a  little  tea  and  a  lit- 
tle coffee,  and '  a  little  alcoholic 
drinks,  and  other  things  which  God 
has  forbidden  us  to  use  ?  How  can 
we  approach  him  in  behalf  of  suf- 
fering humanity,  if  we  have  not  put 
ourselves  aright  before  our  Father 
in  heaven  ?  It  seems  to  me  that  this 
duty  devolves  upon  us, — the  duty 
of  charity  and  love.which  should  not 
begin  in  "Russia  nor  in  Europe,  nor 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


in  Mexico,  but  in  our  own  hearts, 
in  our  own  homes,  with  our  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  with  our  wives  and 
children.  It  seems  to  me  that  as 
Latter-day  Saints,  as  the  elect  in 
these  mountains,  we  are  to  put  our 
hearts  truly  in  shape.  What  would 
be  the  result  if  this  whole  Nation 
were  to  observe  the  commandments 
which  the  Lord  gave  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph?  And  thanks  be  to  the  Lord 
we  have  been  trained  as  a  people 
for  nearly  a  hundred  years,  in  all 
that  our  great  and  good  govern- 
ment would  ask  us  to  do,  trained  in 
doing  the  great  things  which  our 
great  government  has  now  discov- 
ered are  the  proper  things  that  we 
should  observe  and  do,  even  to  the 
contributing  of  our  means  for  the 
purchase  of  thrift  stamps,  Liberty 
bonds  and  for  every  other  purpose. 

The  Lord  has  trained  us  to  con- 
tribute one-tenth  of  all  we  receive 
for  humanity's  sake,  and  if  we  have 
observed  that  doctrine  well,  and  it 
has  been  truly  implanted  in  our 
hearts,  we  will  have  very  little 
trouble  in  adding  on  a  little  more 
along  the  same  line,  in  addition  to 
the  payment  of  our  tithes  and  our 
offerings. 

I  am  wondering,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  if  we  are  keeping  our  cove- 
nants with  our  Father  in  heaven,  if 
we  are  mindful  of  the  responsibili- 
ties which  we  took  upon  ourselves 
in  the  waters  of  baptism,  to  be  true 
to  God  and  to  keep  his  command- 
ments !  I  am  wondering  if  we  take 
the  time  upon  the  wSabbath  day  to 
attend  to  our  sacrament  meetings, 
and  testify  to  our  Father  in  heaven 
through  partaking  of  the  emblems 
of  the  flesh  and  blood  of  his  Only 
Begotten  Son  at  the  communion 
table,  or  if  we  prefer  to  stay  at 
home.    Have  we  the  desire  to  take 


upon  us  the  name  of  Christ,  and 
keep  his  commands,  that  his  Spirit 
might  be  with  us,  that  we  might 
have  faith  when  we  call  upon  him 
in  prayer  that  our  prayers  shall  be 
answered  ? 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  the 
elect,  we  who  are  gathered  as  the 
people  of  the  Lord.  We  heard  yes- 
terday where  the  voice  of  God 
would  be  heard ;  that  it  would  be 
among  his  elect,  and  not  in  Ger- 
many. What  a  fallacy  in  the  ideas 
expressed  by  the  German  emperor 
that  he  is  the  vicegerent  of  God ! 
God  is  not  so  radically  inconsistent ! 
There  is  no  comparison  between 
God's  work  here  upon  the  earth, 
and  the  life  of  the  Savior,  and  that 
of  the  Kaiser.  Christ  gave  his 
whole  time  while  he  dwelt  among 
men  for  saving  humanity,  even  the 
weak,  the  sick,  the  afflicted,  the  old 
and  the  young.  He  said  "Suffer 
little  children  to  come  unto  me,  for 
of  such  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven." 
That  was  the  testimony  of  our  Sa- 
vior, in  whose  footsteps  we  are 
striving  to  follow.  What  a  vast  dif- 
ference between  that  and  the  state- 
ment of  the  monster  to  his  armies, 
to  the  effect :  "Leave  your  mark 
when  you  go  through  the  great 
cities,  that  you  may  strike  terror  to 
the  inhabitants  of  the  world,  even 
to  the  extent  of  killing,  crucifying 
women  and  children,  soldiers,  pris- 
oners or  any  one,  that  terror  may 
come  into  the  hearts  of  the  people ! 
That  the  fear  of  the  sword  and  of 
the  aim  of  the  Kaiser,  (who  falsely 
represents  that  he  is  a  representa- 
tive of  the  Almighty)  might  strike 
terror  to  the  hearts  of  the  people. 
Oh,  what  a  difference  from  the 
spirit  of  the  Savior,  from  the  spirit 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  who  have 
gone  into  the  world  and  gathered 


ELDER  ROBERT  D.  YOUNG 


103 


out  the  humble,  the  poor,  the  meek 
and  those  who  are  seeking  after 
God.  What  a  difference !  Even 
those  who  have  not  received  a  tes- 
timony of  the  gospel  as  we  have,  it 
seems  to  me  must  see  and  believe. 
When  this  great  work  is  finished 
which  God  is  permitting  to  level 
down  the  nations  and  to  bring  them 
into  a  condition  that  the  gospel 
truths  will  find  lodgment  in  their 
hearts,  even  those  who  have  not  yet 
had  faith  to  understand  the  divinity 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph's  mission 
ought  to  be  able  to  see,  from  the 
conditions  which  surround  them, 
where  God  is. 

We  are  in  the  hands  of  the  Al- 
mighty. It  remains  for  you  and 
for  me  to  decide  whether  we  will 
serve  God  or  whether  we  will  con- 
tinue to  satisfy  the  lusts  of  the 
flesh,  our  appetites  and  passions, 
disregarding  the  rights  and  the 
feelings  of  our  brethren  with  whom 
we  are  associated ;  or  whether  we, 
like  Joshua,  v/ill  say  in  our  hearts, 
"As  for  me  and  my  house,  we  will 
serve  the  Lord."  We  will  go  home 
in  a  few  days  from  this  conference. 
We  will  remember  what  we  have 
heard,  no  doubt,  but  will  we  put  it 
into  practice  ?  If  we  do,  we  may 
be  counted  the  most  loyal  citizens 
in  this  great  government,  a  fact 
that  is  being  witnessed  and  testified 
to  by  almost  every  requirement  that 
is  made  at  our  hands.  We  believe 
the  truth,  which  is  as  old  as  the 
everlasting  hills,  as  old  as  the  stars 
in  heaven,  that  it  is  the  right  of  the 
people  to  have  equal  rights  one  with 
another.  These  are  principles  for 
which  the  battles  in  heaven  were 
fought,  that  men  might  enjoy  their 
own  agency,  and  come  back  to  our 
heavenly  Father  on  account  of  the 
desires  in  their  hearts  to  do  so,  and 


not  because  of  the  fear  of  the  sword 
or  the  flame. 

May  God's  blessings  abound  with 
us,  and  may  we  teach  these  prin- 
ciples to  our  children,  and  to  those 
who  are  among  us  that  have  not 
received  the  truth ;  that  charity  and 
love  and  peace  may  prevail,  and 
the  love  of  God  may  extend  from 
ocean  to  ocean,  and  from  one  end 
of  the  earth  to  the  other ;  that  the 
time  may  speedily  come  which  the 
Savior  taught  us  to  pray  for,  when 
he  said,  thy  will  may  be  done  on 
the  earth  as  it  is  done  in  heaven,  is 
my  prayed  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ROBERT  D.  YOUNG. 

(President   of   the    Sevier   Stake  of 
Zion) 

I  feel  that  of  all  the  duties  placed 
upon  me  from  time  to  time,  at- 
tempting to  speak  to  a  congregation 
of  Saints  is  the  most  difficult. 

I  believe  that  the  wonderful  tes- 
timony borne  by  our  beloved  Pres- 
ident Joseph  F.  Smith,  at  this  con- 
ference has  strengthened  every  per- 
son who  heard  it,  which  is  true  al- 
so of  the  strong  and  inspiring  tes- 
timonies of  the  other  brethren  who 
have  spoken. 

We  are  indeed  blessed  to  have 
such  great  men,  inspired  of  God  as 
they  are,  so  let  us  appreciate  them 
and  heed  their  counsels. 

In  looking  over  the  vast  congre- 
gation of  people  assembled  at  this 
conference,  and  realizing  the  many 
blessings  we  enjoy  through  the  gos- 
peb  I  thought  of  the  words  of  the 
Prophet  Isaiah,  which  read  some 
thing  like  this :  God's  ways  are 
not  man's  ways,  neither  are  his 
thoughts  man's  thoughts,  for  as  the 
heavens  are  higher  than  the  earth, 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


so  are  his  ways  than  our  ways,  and 
his  thoughts  than  our  thoughts. 

Elders  have  gone  to  the  nations 
of  the  earth,  calling  the  people  to 
repentance,  saying,  in  the  Spirit  of 
the  gospel,  Repent,  O  inhabitants 
of  the  earth.  Many  heeded  the 
warning  cry  of  the  humble  messen- 
gers of  the  Lord,  and  as  a  conse- 
quence they  are  here  with  their  chil- 
dren and  children's  children,  en- 
joying the  blessings  that  they  never 
could  have  received  aside  from  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  believe 
many  sense  it  more  now  than  ever 
before.  Here  we  are  in  this  great 
land  of  America  the  best  country 
in  the  world,  and  by  God's  guidance 
brought  here  as  his  people,  to  the 
safest  spot  of  this  great  country, 
here  to  abide,  during  the  world's 
crises.  No  doubt  our  hearts  re- 
joice because  we  obeyed.  But  do 
we  fully  appreciate  at  all  times 
these  blessed  privileges  which  the 
gospel  affords  us?  If  we  do,  is  it 
manifest  in  our  teaching  to  our 
children?  As  directed  in  the  Rev- 
elation, do  we  teach  them  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living 
God?  If  we  are  not  doing  this,  we 
are  told  in  the  revelation  that  the 
condemnation  for  failure  will  rest 
on  us  parents. 

It  was  not  by  chance  that  we 
came  to  these  valleys  of  the  moun- 
tains, but  it  was  through  the  work- 
ing of  the  well-defined  plan  of  our 
heavenly  Father,  and  we  have  been 
made  prosperous,  in  order  that  we 
may  do  our  duty  in  helping  the 
poor,  struggling  peoples  in  the 
world? 

I  received  a  letter  the  other  day 
from  one  of  our  boys  who  is  now 
paymaster  at  one  of  the  canton- 
ments, and  he  said :  "I  know  that 
you  did  not  feel  that  I  was  doing 
my  whole  duty  while  at  home,  but 


when  I  came  out  here  and  mixed 
with  the  world,  and  moved  among 
those  who  belonged  to  other 
churches,  and  the  men  in  the  army, 
I  began  to  think  of  the  teachings 
that  I  received  at  my  mother's  knee. 
There  are  fifteen  of  us  here,  and 
the  other  day  the  officer  askd  me  to 
call  my  companions  together,  line 
them  up,  as  he  would  like  to  have 
our  pictures."  So  the  fifteen  "Mor- 
mon" boys  lined  up  to  have  their 
pictures  taken.  And  the  officer 
complimented  them  on  being  the 
cleanest,  nicest  lot  of  boys  in  the 
camp.  He  says  further :  "We 
went  to  where  our  people  held 
their  meetings,  and  you  ought  to 
have  seen  the  tears  roll  down  our 
cheeks  when  they  sang  the  first 
song,  one  of  the  songs  of  Zion.  The 
tears  rolled  down  our  cheeks,  and 
our  hearts  just  swelled  with  ap- 
preciation. Oh,  I  have  heard  you 
at  home  say,  people  would  get  that 
hunger,  not  for  bread ;  thirst,  not 
for  water,  but  for  the  word  of  the 
Lord.  We  were  hungry,  we  were 
thirsty — starving  for  the  word  of 
the  Lord  from  his  servants." 

When  I  read  the  letter  I  won- 
dered if  we  do  really  our  whole 
duty  to  our  children,  and  do  as  the 
prophet  of  the  Lord  said  we  should 
do :  observe  home  evening  where 
we  might  gather  our  children 
around  us,  and  teach  them  the  plan 
of  life  and  salvation,  to  keep  them- 
selves pure,  brave  and  high-minded 
and  unspotted  from  the  sins  of  the 
world. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  the  Lord 
has  given  us  about  eighty-eight 
years  for  preparatory  work  to  pre- 
pare ourselves  and  our  children  for 
the  time  when  it  would  become  ne- 
cessary for  thousands  of  our  boys 
and  girls  to  stand  side  by  side  with 
the  people  of  the  world,  many  of 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


105 


whom  have  not  heard  the  gospel, 
and  teach  the  truth  by  their  clean, 
pure  and  sweet  lives.  I  do  not  fear 
the  dangers  of  war  as  I  do  men  and 
women  who  place  no  value  on  the 
high  standard  of  morality  that  we 
stand  for  as  a  people.  O  that  we 
could  impress  upon  the  hearts  of 
our  children  these  everlasting  truths 
that  this  is  the  Church  of  God,  and 
there  is  no  other,  and  that  there  is 
no  hope  of  everlasting  peace  for 
this  world  outside  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

May  God  bless  us.  May  we  be 
able  to  appreciate  our  responsibil- 
ities and  accomplish  the  duties 
resting  upon  us.  May  we  not  be 
classed  with  those  of  whom  the 
Lord  spoke :  "He  that  putteth  his 
hand  to  the  plow  and  looketh  back 
is  not  worthy  of  the  kingdom  of 
heaven."  May  we  be  valiant,  so 
that  when  we  sing  the  beautiful 
hymn,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for 
a  prophet,"  we  may  follow  its  coun- 
sel when  he  asks  us  to  perform  a 
duty,  and  go  and  do  it  without 
question.  Then  we  would  become 
a  strength  to  the  work  in  which  we 
are  engaged.  May  God  bless  us, 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

The  combined  choirs  of  Granite 
stake  sang  the  anthem :  "Christ  is 
risen." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  Willard  Larson  Jones,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Moapa  stake  of  Zion. 


OUTDOOR  MEETING. 

An  open  air  meeting  was  held  at 
the  front  of  the  Bureau  of  Informa- 
tion Building,  Elder  Rulon  S. 
Wells,  of  the  First  Council  of  Sev- 
enty, presiding. 


The  music  was  furnished  by  the 
Ensign  Stake  Male  Chorus,  Henry 
Giles,  conductor,  A.  B.  C.  Ohlson, 
organist. 

The  chorus  sang :  "We  are  sow- 
ing." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  C. 
E.  Dinwoodey. 

The  chorus  and  congregation 
sang:  "The  Spirit  of  God  like  a 
fire  is  burning." 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS. 

(President    of    the    Southern  States 
Mission.) 

Brethren  and  Sisters:  I  am 
pleased  that  I  am  privileged  to 
join  with  you  in  the  worship  of  the 
Lord  on  these  historic  grounds. 
Many  years  ago,,  when  members  of 
the  Church  emigrated  from  Eng- 
land to  Utah  in  quite  large  numbers, 
Charles  Dickens  went  to  see  a 
ship-load  of  the  emigrants.  He  ad- 
mitted that  he  went  to  bear  tes- 
timony against  them,  but  when  he 
observed  the  good  order,  discipline, 
religious  fervor,  the  excellent  man- 
ner in  which  they  were  organized 
as  a  company  for  the  voyage,  the 
great  English  author,  in  a  publish- 
ed account  of  his  visit  said,  "Some 
remarkable  influence  had  produced 
a  remarkable  result  which  other 
organizations  have  not  been  able 
to  accomplish."  Like  the  man  who 
went  to  meeting  to  scoff,  but  re- 
mained to  pray,  Dickens  went  to 
criticise,  but  remained  to  praise. 

When  President  Joseph  F.  Smith 
and  his  party  visited  the  South,  in 
November,  1914,  the  Mayor  of  At- 
lanta had  a  pleasant  interview  with 
them.  The  latter  related  to  the  Pres- 
ident the  favorable  impressions  he 
(the  Mayor)  received  when  he 
visited  Utah.  As  he  surveyed  the 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


great  work  done  in  the  west  by  the 
"Mormon"  people  in  reclaiming  the 
desert,  establishing  communities 
devoted  to  industry,  orderly  and 
law-abiding,  as  he  viewed  the  com- 
fortable homes,  the  fine  school 
buildings  and  churches,  the  Atlanta 
executive  said  that  he  could  not 
help  but  feel  that  surely  a  power 
higher  and  greater  than  human 
power  was  with  the  "Mormon" 
people. 

You  and  I  know  what  that  "re- 
markable influence"is,  brethren  and 
sisters.  It  is  the  influence,  the 
Vjower  of  the  gospel  and  the  priest- 
hood operating  in  our  lives.  "Now," 
said  Jesus,  "ye  are  clean  through 
the  word  which  I  have  spoken  unto 
you."  The  resurrection  does  not 
cleanse  the  soul :  it  does  not  wash 
away  sin  :  for  the  wicked  shall  come 
forth  unto  the  resurrection  of  dam- 
nation. "But  if  we  walk  in  the  light, 
as  he  is  in  the  light,"  said  John,  "we 
have  fellowship  one  with  another, 
and  the  blood  of  Jesus  Christ  his 
Son  cleanseth  us  from  all  sin" 
(John  1:7).  The  precious,  atoning 
blood  of  Jesus  Christ  is  applied  to 
our  ,sins  by  and  through  obedience 
to  the  principles  and  ordinances  of 
the  gospel.  "We  believe  that  the 
first  principles  and  ordinances  of 
the  gospel  are:  First,  Faith  in  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ ;  second,  Repent- 
ance ;  third.  Baptism  by  immersion 
for  the  remission  of  sins ;  fourth, 
Laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost." 

God  has  given  unto  us  the  Holy 
Priesthood,  but  the  power  of  the 
priesthood  is  not  exercised  in  the 
spirit  of  compulsion  or  coercion :  it 
is  exercised  in  brotherly  kindness 
and  charity,  persuasion,  service.  In 
answer  to  an  inquiry  concerning  his 
great  and  good  influence  with  his 


people,  the  Prophet  Joseph  is  said 
to  have  replied :  "I  teach  them 
correct  principles,  and  they  govern 
themselves." 

The  Savior  impressed  upon  his 
apostles  the  spirit  of  service.  "Who- 
soever," he  said,  "will  be  great 
among  you,  let  him  be  your  min- 
ister ;  and  whosoever  will  be  chief 
among  you,  let  him  be  your  servant ; 
even  as  the  Son  of  man  came  not  to 
be  ministered  unto  but  to  minister, 
and  to  give  his  life  a  ransom  for 
many"  (Mathew  20:26-28).  King 
Benjamin  taught  his  people  wisdom 
when  he  said:  "Learn  that  when 
ye  are  in  the  service  of  your  fellow- 
beings  ye  are  only  in  the  service  of 
your  God"  ( Mosiah  2:17).  Your 
sons,  husbands  and  brothers  on  the 
bloody  battlefields  in  France  are  in 
the  service  of  their  fellow-beings, 
and  therefore  in  the  service  of  their 
God.  "The  cause  of  human  liberty," 
said  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  "is 
the  cause  of  God."  Wrhat  a  noble 
and  sublime  thought !  We  hold  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  one  of  the  fore- 
most exponents  and  champions  of 
human  liberty.  Our  soldier  boys 
are  fighting  for  the  cause  of  human 
liberty.  They  are  battling  for  a 
cause  which  God  looks  upon  and 
approves. 

We  gather  strength  and  comfort, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  contem- 
plating the  life  of  our  Savior  and 
the  spirit  in  which  he  worked.  He 
was  "touched  with  the  feeling  of 
our  infirmities,"  said  Paul.  The 
same  apostle  said  that  our  Lord"was 
sent  into  the  world  that  he  by  the 
grace  of  God  should  taste  death  for 
every  man."  He  is  the  captain 
of  our  salvation  "made  perfect 
through  suffering."  "Though  he 
were  a  Son,  yet  learned  he  obedi- 
ence by  the  things  which  he  suffer- 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  ELI  SON 


ed ;  and  being-  made  perfect,  he  be- 
came the  author  of  eternal  salvation 
unto  all  them  that  obey  him."  We 
are  perfected  through  suffering  and 
fitted  for  entrance  into  eternal  life. 
The  man  who  has  not  suffered  and 
sacrificed  for  the  right  has  not 
accomplished  much  for  the  uplift  of 
humanity. 

Jesus  "was  in  all  points  tempted 
like  we  are,  yet  without  sin."  Not 
to  yield  to  temptation,  but  to  resist 
and  overcome  it  is  a  glorious  vic- 
tory. We  are  prone  to  think  that 
we  have  temptations  and  struggles 
which  others  have  not,  but  Paul 
says :  "There  hath  no  temptation 
taken  you  but  such  as  is  common 
to  man :  but  God  is  faithful,  who 
will  riot  suffer  you  to  be  tempted 
above  that  ye  are  able ;  but  with  the 
temptations  also  make  a  way  to  es- 
cape, that  ye  may  be  able  to  bear  it" 
(I.  Cor.  10:  13). 

We  grow  great  in  giving.  It  is 
not  what  we  receive  which  makes  us 
great,  but  it  is  that  which  we  give 
that  secures  greatness.  The  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  a  great  people  be- 
cause they  have  sacrificed  and  given 
for  the  benefit  of  their  fellow-be- 
ings. They  send  their  sons  and 
'daughters  to  preach  the  restored 
gospel  in  the  world ;  they  pay  their 
tithing  to  build  temples  and  meet- 
ing-houses, seeking  always  to  build 
up  the  kingdom  of  God.  The  mis- 
sion of  the  Church  is  to  preach  the 
gospel  as  a  witness  unto  all  nations, 
to  prepare  a  people  for  the  glorious 
second  coming  of  the  Lord.  This 
is  our  message,  "Forget  me,  if  you 
choose,  but  I  plead  with  you  not  to 
forget  the  message  we  bring  unto 
you."  I  •  invite  you,  my  fellow- 
beings,  who  are  not  in  the  Church 
"to  come  and  be  baptized  unto  re- 
pentance, that  ye  also  may  be  par- 


takers of  the  fruit  of  the  tree  of 
life." 

Before  this  Nation  entered  the 
world  war,  it  was  regarded  by  many 
across  the  water  chiefly  as  a  big, 
rich,  commercial  nation.  But  today 
this  mighty  Republic  is  great  in  the 
hearts  of  the  people  of  the  nations 
of  the  earth.  America  is  filling  her 
Godgiven  mission  by  carrying  (to 
mankind  the  gospel  of  freedom,  the 
pearl  of  human  liberty.  The  heart 
of  the  President  of  the  Church  beats 
true  and  in  sympathy  with  the  hopes 
and  aspirations  of  his  fellow-men 
to  enjoy  the  rights  and  principles 
which  God  has  given  them  for  their 
heritage  and  for  their  happiness  and 
protection.  Every  one  of  us  is 
called  upon  to  make  sacrifices.  The 
Lord  loveth  a  cheerful  giver.  Let 
us  give  comfort  and  strength  to  our 
country  by  purchasing  Liberty 
Bonds,  thrift  stamps,  and  we  will  be 
blessed  of  the  Lord  for  doing  this. 
I  bear  my  testimony  to  the  truth  of 
the  gospel,  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  ELISON. 

(President  of  the  Raft  River  Stake 
of  ZionJ 

My  dear  brothers  and  sisters: 
There  may  be  some  in  this  audience 
before  me  who  do  not  understand 
what  "priesthood"  means.  It  is  the 
power  of  God  delegated  to  man. 
Man  cannot  act  for  God,  and  it  be 
approved  of  God,  unless  he  have 
power  from  him  so  to  do.  Joseph 
Smith,  the  prophet,  had  first  to  re- 
ceive the  priesthood  before  he  had 
the  right  to  act  for  God. 

I  want  to  quote  a  simple  scrip- 
ture here.  We  have  heard  and  read 
it  a  great  many  times.    But  I  won- 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


der  if  the  force  of  it  appeals  to  us. 
The  Savior  said,  "Ask,  and  ye  shall 
receive,  knock  and  it  shall  be  open- 
ed unto  you,  seek  and  ye  shall  find." 
If  Joseph  Smith,  the  "Mormon" 
prophet,  had  not  sought,  had  he  not 
knocked  at  the  door,  God  the  Fath- 
er, and  Jesus  his  Son  would  never 
have  come  from  the  portals  on  high 
in  answer  to  his  seeking;  this  dis- 
pensation would  never  have  been 
opened,  had  it  not  been  for  that 
prayer.  My  friends,  and  brothers 
and  sisters  in  the  world,  if  you  want 
to  know  God,  seek  him :  he  does 
not  push  his  work  upon  you,  he  will 
not  force  his  work  upon  you — -but 
you  must  seek  him.  Very  much 
contrary  and  opposite  is  the  work 
of  the  evil  one — he  forces  himself 
upon  us — we  do  not  have  to  ask; 
give  him  half  a  show  and  he  will 
take  a  whole  show — that  is  the  dif- 
ference. It  illustrates  that  beauti- 
ful law  of  free  agency.  If  you  want 
what  is  good,  seek  it,  go  after  it, 
get  the  development  and  the  ex- 
perience— evil  comes  of  itself. 

On  the  15th  day  of  May,  1829, 
as  recorded  in  the  revelations  writ- 
ten by  the  prophet,  we  find  these 
words  in  answer  to  prayer:  "Upon 
you,  my  fellow  servants,  in  the 
name  of  the  Messiah,  I  confer  the 
priesthood  of  Aaron."  What  a 
splendid  thing  was  there  given ! 
God  showed  it  was  necessary  to 
deal  in  first  principles — consequent- 
ly gave  that  power  to  Joseph  Smith 
and  his  associates,  so  that  they 
could  act  in  things  pertaining  to 
godliness;  and  in  the  beginning  of 
this  great  work,  consequently,  they 
received  a  portion  of  the  power  of 
God — but  not  all  of  it. 

What  was  the  Priesthood  of 
Aaron?  In  the  days  of  Aaron  it 
dealt  with  the  priest's  office,  things 


pertaining  to  the  temple,  pertain- 
ing to  the  consecrated  material 
things.  But  this  priesthood  also 
holds  the  keys  and  has  the  right  to 
certain  spiritual  blessings :  it  holds 
the  keys  of  the  ministering  of  an- 
gels and  of  the  gospel  of  repent- 
ance. Joseph  Smith,  like  you  and 
me,  had  no  right  even  to  call  men 
to  repentance  until  God  gave  him 
the  right,  and  that  right  came 
through  holding  the  priesthood. 
This  priesthood  holds  the  power  to 
the  keys  of  the  ministering  of  an- 
gels, preaching  the  gospel,  and 
baptism  by  immersion  for  the  re- 
mission of  sins ;  and  it  shall  never 
be  taken  from  the  earth  until  the 
sons  of  Levi  do  offer  again  an  of- 
fering in  righteousness. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  do  we  want 
eternal  life?  Do  we  want  a  place 
in  the  kingdom  of  our  Father?  If 
so,  we  ought  to  seek  for  and  honor 
the  priesthood.  Now  this  may  seem 
peculiar  to  our  friends  in  the  world, 
but  it  is  very  plain — no  man  can  en- 
ter where  God  the  Father  dwells, 
unless  he  holds  the  priesthood,  and 
he  must  hold  the  higher  priesthood. 
If  we  read  the  76th  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  we  find 
there  defined  three  distinct  but  gen- 
eral classifications  of  the  children 
of  men.  We  sing  about  seeing  God, 
being  with  our  God,  but  there  is 
something  required  first,  the  power 
that  is  the  means  in  our  hands  to 
reach  God,  to  know  of  his  ways — 
and  that  power  is  the  priesthood 
delegated  to  man,  which  God  has 
given  in  this  dispensation. 

I  pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  every  man  will  know  what 
that  power  means.  Does  it  mean 
anything  to  you  to  be  able  to  re- 
buke the  influence  of  the  adver- 
sary?   If  so,  it  requires  that  you 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  ELI  SON 


109 


possess  the  Melchizedek  priest- 
hood to  rebuke  that  influence. 

If  any  of  you  wish  to  call  your 
neighbor  or  your  friend  into  your 
home  to  assist  in  administering  to 
any  member  of  your  family,  and 
through  the  power  and  the  right 
that  you  have  through  that  priest- 
hood, ask  God  to  heal  your  wife  Or 
son  or  your  daughter — is  that 
worth  anything  to  you?  If  so,  the 
priesthood  is  valuable  to  you  in 
that  respect.  You  cannot  do  with- 
out it. 

Is  it  worth  anything  to  know  that 
you  can  carry  a  message  of  truth 
to  the  nations  of  the  earth?  If  so, 
you  must  hold  the  priesthood,  or 
the  power  of  God,  to  act. 

Is  it  worth  anything  to  detect  the 
power  of  evil,  the  adversary?  If 
so,  that  priesthood  will  help  you 
to  discern  more  quickly  than  any 
other  way.  Hence,  my  brethren, 
you  should  desire  to  hold  the  priest- 
hood. 

In  other  words,  is  it  worth  any- 
thing to  you  to  have  at  your  com- 
mand and  in  your  possession  the 
means  of  reaching  God  and  know- 
ing his  desires  concerning  you?  If 
so,  the  priesthood  is  valuable  to 
you,  and  is  that  means  within  your 
command. 

It  is  useless  to  say,  or  sing,  or 
preach  that  we  shall  dwell  with  God 
the  eternal  Father  forever  and 
ever,  and  then  lie  idle.  I  had  an 
experience  at  one  time  as  bishop 
of  a  ward.  Someone  came  to  my 
home  quickly  and  said,  "Will  you 
come  and  administer  to  my  wife? 
She  is  very  low."  And  I  asked  the 
nearest  elder  I  could  get  to  accom- 
pany me.  He  was  a  seventy,  but 
had  not  been  very  active  in  the 
priesthood.  He  came  with  me,  and 
I  asked  him  to  anoint  the  sick.  He 
did  so,  but  said  nothing.  "Brother," 


I  said,  "say,  'I  anoint  you,  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen.'  "  He  said  it.  We  admin- 
istered to  the  sister,  and  she  was 
restored.  I  had  a  good  chance  to 
instruct  the  young  man  afterwards, 
and  he  saw  the  need  of  knowing 
what  the  uses  of  priesthood  were 
with  which  God  had  entrusted  him. 

We  hear  of  men  being  ordained 
elders  to  go  through  the  temple  to 
be  married  for  time  and  eternity — 
and  the  object  of  some  of  our  boys 
seems  to  be  the  bride;  but  the 
greater  purpose  in  being  ordained 
is  to  receive  the  marvelous  power 
of  the  priesthood.  Without  it  you 
cannot  receive  the  blessings  of  that 
sacred  place ;  but  some  of  our 
brethren  seem  to  want  that  power 
only  because,  it  is  necessary  to  en- 
able them  to  go  through  the  House 
of  the  Lord.  They  little  under- 
stand the  obligations  they  assume. 
I  believe  it  is  the  duty  of  every 
man  who  holds  this  God-given 
power  to  learn  its  uses. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  power 
of  God  is  upon  the  earth.  I  hope 
that  men  holding  the  priesthood  of 
the  living  God  will  learn  its  uses. 
Then  the  keys  of  the  ministering 
of  angels  will  mean  something  to 
them,  to  know  the  mysteries  of  the 
kingdom  of  God  will  mean  some- 
thing to  them.  I  hope  that  the  time 
will  come  very  quickly  when  our 
boys  who  hold  the  lesser  priesthood 
will  consider  it  a  privilege  to  go 
into  the  homes  of  the  people  to  ex- 
hort them  to  live  right  and  to  pray, 
to  expound  the  Scriptures  to  them. 
When  this  great  conflict  is  over 
that  we  are  engaged  in,  I  believe 
that  men  who  hold  the  full  power 
of  the  priesthood  will  be  needed  to 
carry  the  gospel  message  to  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth.  I  have  always 
been  a  believer  that  what  God  or- 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


dained  for  a  certain  purpose  should 
be  used  for  that  certain  purpose. 
Teachers  should  be  used  for  teach- 
ing the  people  at  ihome ;  priests 
should  be  used  as  ministers  at 
home.  When  the  lesser  priesthood 
comes  into  its  own,  I  believe  that 
ward  teaching  will  be  no  trouble 
I  believe  there  will  be  no  difficulty 
in  it,  and  men  who  hold  the  higher 
priesthood  will  be  carrying  the  mes- 
sage of  life  to  the  souls  of  men. 

God  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints 
and  the  work  they  are  doing.  I  re-' 
joice  in  the  fact  that  I  am  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Church.  There  may  be 
men  and  women  within  the  sound 
of  my  voice  who  wonder  why  it  is 
that  we  testify  concerning  Joseph 
Smith.  Well,  briefly,  this  power 
of  which  I  speak,  this  priesthood 
which  the  Latter-day  Saints  have 
in  their  possession,  without  which 
man  cannot  legally  act  for  God, 
came  through  Joseph.  No  one  repre- 
sented God  the  Father  on  earth.  In 
fact,  men  denied  revelation,  they 
did  not  want  it.  Joseph  Smith  says 
that  the  door  of  heaven  was  opened 
through  prayer.  God  the  Father 
appeared,  he  brought  with  him  his 
Son,  and  he  said,  "Joseph,  this  is 
my  beloved  Son,  hear  him."  That 
was  the  first  introduction  of  his 
Son  since  the  days  of  the  apostles 
of  old,  that  God  had  given  to  any 
man.  And  thus  this  great  work  be- 
gan. It  was  followed  up  by  this 
priesthood  being  restored  to  men 
upon  the  earth.  And  Joseph  Smith 
was  the  instrument  in  the  hands  of 
God.  He  was  what  the  world  may 
call  a  lucky  man,  but  he  was  lucky 
because  he  went  after  luck,  and  he 
received  the  answer  to  his  prayer. 
Brethren  and  sisters,  Joseph  Smith 
is  a  prophet  of  God.  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith  said  (I  believe  in 
the  November  number  of  the  Im- 


provement Era,)  concerning  Abra- 
ham, Isaac,  and  Jacob :  "They  live, 
they  are  prophets  as  they  were 
prophets,  they  are  patriarchs  as 
they  were  patriarchs.  They  live, 
and  so  does  Joseph  Smith ;  he  is  a 
prophet  today,  as  he  was  a  proph- 
et." He  lives,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  this  work  is  going 
forth.  He  was  the  instrument  of 
the  Lord  to  begin  it  in  the  last 
days,  and  it  will  fill  the  immensity 
of  space ;  truth  shall  reign  on  the 
earth,  wickedness  shall  cease,  and 
the  world  shall  know  that  God  lives, 
I  testify  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  HYRUM  S.  HARRIS. 

(President  of  the  San  Luis  Stake  of 
Zion) 

I  will  take  for  a  text  Jesus'  la- 
ment over  Jerusalem,  "O  Jerusa- 
lem, Jerusalem,  thou  that  stonest 
the  prophets  and  killest  those  that 
are  sent  unto  thee,  how  often  would 
I  have  gathered  thy  children  to- 
gether, even  as  a  hen  gathereth  her 
chickens  under  her  wings,  but  ye 
would  not.  Now  your  house  shall 
be  left  unto  you  desolate,  until  you 
shall  say,  Blessed  is  he  that  cometh 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord." 

Jesus  also  said,  A  tree  is  known 
by  its  fruits.  "Do  men  gather  grapes 
of  thorns  or  figs  of  thistles  ?" 

I  wish  to  talk  to  you  a  few  min- 
utes of  what  the  gospel  has  done 
for  the  Mexican  people,  the  La- 
manites,  the  peoples  to  the  south.  I 
have  been  in  nearly  every  state  in 
Mexico,  and  have  been  in  Central 
America,  and  South  America — on 
the  River  Sidon,  .seen  the  Land  of 
Zarahemla — seen  many  of  the  hiero- 
glyphics and  temples  and  objects 
of  that  character,  manifesting  that 


ELDER  HYRUM  S.  HARRIS 


111 


there  has  been  a  great  civilization 
on  this  land  of  America. 

I  had  a  conversation  with  one  of 
the  cabinet  officers  of  President 
Diaz,  and  took  him  some  of  the 
products  of  the  "Mormon"  colonies 
in  Chihuahua,  and  I  will  tell  you 
a  little  of  what  they  did  there,  the 
fruits  of  "Mormon"  work,  and  how 
the  people  to  the  south  esteemed  it. 
They  are  of  the  blood  of  Israel, 
and  there  is  not  so  much  enmity 
in  their  hearts  toward  us  and  our 
message  as  there  is  in  the  north, 
for  I  have  preached  in  both  coun- 
tries. 

President  Diaz  had  said,  "I  have 
robbed  your  people."  And  he  sent 
an  expert,  a  German,  by  the  way,  to 
the  colonies  to  investigate.  He 
said,  "I  have  heard  so  much  about 
those  people  and  the  work  they  are 
doing,  that  I  want  you  to  go  up 
there  secretly.  Travel  among  them, 
visit  them,  see  them  in  their  homes 
there,  see  how  they  are  worshiping, 
and  what  they  are  doing,  and  come 
to  me  again  and  report." 

There  was  a  national  fair  before 
this  in  the  City  of  Mexico,  and  I 
was  at  that  fair.  We  brought  a 
carload  of  canned  fruit,  jellies,  ap- 
ples, butter,  cheese,  shoes,  harness, 
and  quilts,  etc.  And  they  gave  us 
a  prominent  place  in  the  show 
grounds,  and  we  had  our  apples 
beautifully  polished  and  our  splen- 
did harnesses  and  shoes,  and  every- 
thing first  class ;  and  when  the 
Mexican  people  came  in — rich  peo- 
ple who  had  gold  and  diamonds, 
they  opened  their  eyes  and  drew  up 
their  hands.  "Where  did  this  come 
from  ?  This  is  from  Mexico  ?  No, 
this  is  from  California,  or  some  of 
the  best  cities  in  the  Union !" 

California  never  did  outdo  us  in 
fruit-raising.  We  were  equal  to 
any  fruit  country  that  I  ever  saw 


in  the  world — and  I  never  saw  any- 
thing nicer  than  when  they  came 
up  and  we  distributed  those  apples, 
nearly  a  carload  of  them;  and  we 
cut  our  cheese — hundreds  of  dol- 
lars worth  of  it,  and  distributed  it 
to  those  people,  and  they  ate  it.  And 
everything  they  saw  they  marveled 
at,  and  they  went  away  with  praises, 
took  the  apples  and  set  them  on 
the  shelves  in  their  offices,  and  to 
the  hundreds  and  thousands  of 
friends  that  would  come  there  they 
would  say,  "That  was  raised  in 
Mexico,"  and  they  would  uplift 
their  chins  with  pride.  This  is  the 
product — what  our  people  are  do- 
ing in  Mexico. 

I  had  business  with  President 
Diaz,  and  nearly  all  of  his  cabinet, 
with  Madero — and  I  have  been  in 
prison  three  times,  and  have  had 
the  dagger  over  my  head  ready  to 
let  fall.  I  know  the  evils  as  well 
as  the  good  things  of  the  people. 
Now,  in  this  conversation  with  the 
minister  of  education,  L.  Fer- 
nando, a  great  lawyer,  one  of  the 
leading  lawyers  of  the  republic, 
when  I  took  him  some  fruit  and 
jelly  and  other  things  that  were 
sent  to  him — for  the  Church  finally, 
through  our  solicitation,  appropri- 
ated $200  or  $300  to  be  distributed 
in  gifts  to  these  important  people, 
lawyers  and  statesmen  and  great 
men  of  the  nation,  when  I  took  the 
little  gift  to  him,  he  said,  "Mr. 
Harris,  tell  me  something  about 
your  people  and  their  social  rela- 
tions, for  if  they  can  do  what  I  see 
they  appear  to  have  done,  I  want  to 
know  something  about  them  and 
their  system  of  worship  and  what 
they  are." 

I  was  a  student  then  at  the  Na- 
tional School  of  Jurisprudence.  I 
was  in  the  sixth  year.  I  was  with 
young  men  from  every  part  of  the 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


republic,  who  had  come  there  to 
be  lawyers,  and  to  be  educated. 
We  were  studying  morality,the  laws 
of  right  and  justice,  by  Spencer 
and  the  famous  German  authors 
on  morality,  and  the  boys  would 
learn  by  rote  the  principles  of  mor- 
ality as  discussed  by  Spencer  and 
the  leading  moralists  of  the  day.  I 
was  personally  acquainted  with 
nearly  all  of  the  three  hundred  that 
were  in  the  school,  having  been 
there  so  long,  and  they  were  im- 
moral, and  I  knew  they  were  im- 
moral. 

"Now,"  I  told  him,  "we  are 
studying  in  our  school  (he  knew 
me  well)  the  principles  of  moral- 
ity ;  but  Paul  says  that  'the  letter 
killeth,  it  is  the  spirit  that  giveth 
light ;'  and  morality — the  boys  can 
give  you  the  rules  number  1,  2  and 
3  better  than  I  can,  but  they  go  out 
and  sin  against  the  laws  that  they 
are  studying  and  learning ;  while 
our  little  boys,  in  the  Primary  As- 
sociation, where  they  are  sent,  and 
the  most  capable,  pure  women  and 
girls  in  the  land  take  charge  each 
week  for  one  hour,  learn  that  they 
have  a  Father  and  God  in  heaven, 
as  they  have  on  earth.  They  are 
taught  to  pray,  to  reverence  God, 
who  has  ears  to  hear  and  a  heart 
that  can  be  touched  by  the  prayers 
and  the  supplications  of  the  little 
ones.  Therefore,  faith  and  spiritu- 
ality is  begotten  in  their  little  souls. 
After  that,  they  go  to  their  Mu- 
tuals.  There  the  same  lessons  are 
being  taught  and  reinforced.  Thev 
go  to  their  Sunday  Schools  and 
to  their  priesthood  meetings."  I 
outlined  the  work  of  each  to  him, 
then  that  the  young  ladies  and  girls 
on  their  side  have  the  Young  La- 
dies' Association,  and  the  Relief 
Society,  and  then  I  outlined  the 
work  of  these.    And  I  said,  from 


three  points  of  view  they  are  great, 
because  of  their  physical  perfec- 
tion, because  of  their  spiritual,  and 
because  of  their  mental  strength — 
and  the  most  perfect  man  must 
combine  the  three,  and  he  can  not 
be  converted  unless  he  has  each 
one  developed. 

Now  the  world  is  trying  to  de- 
velop the  intellectual  and  the  phys- 
ical to  the  detriment  of  the  moral 
and  the  spiritual,  and  I  say  the  life 
of  morality  is  spirituality,  and  with- 
out spirituality  there  can  be  no  vital 
living  morality.  We  can  talk  about 
Spencer  and  all  the  other  theorists, 
but  I  know  and  you  know,  and  I 
can  bring  your  whole  company  of 
students  here  to  bear  the  same  tes- 
timony* that  the  morality  that  we 
study  without  spirituality  is  dead 
in  their  lives. 

Now,  we  teach  spirituality  to 
our  little  ones.  We  teach  them 
morality,  and  teach  them  to  sing 
and  pray ;  and  we  not  only  teach 
them  by  having  others  do  it,  but 
the  little  ones  are  called  out  by 
these  young  or  old  women,  and 
there  they  say  their  prayers.  Ev- 
ery one  in  the  association  learns  to 
pray,  and  learns  to  sing.  The  es- 
thetic part  of  their  nature  is  de- 
veloped in  their  singing.  Another 
little  girl  is  called  up  and  she  re- 
cites. Then  they  play  their  little 
games,  and  are  taught  to  march,  to 
straighten  up — and  their  little  phys- 
ical natures  are  developed. 

And  I  explained  these  things  to 
that  great  man  in  the  Mexican  re- 
public, and  when  I  got  up  to  leave 
— and  he  was  due  at  a  cabinet  meet- 
ing with  President  Diaz — I  said, 
"I  have  talked  longer  than  I 
thought  I  would — I  have  talked  an 
hour  and  a  half."  He  did  not  seem 
to  be  uneasy,  and  when  I  apolo- 
gized, he  grabbed  me  with  both 


ELDER  E.  FRANKLIN  BIRCH 


113 


hands  and  thanked  me,  and  said, 
"You  have  no  need  to  apologize, 
for  the  things  that  I  have  heard  are 
so  grand  and  so  great." 

Now  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  it 
is  so  with  our  children,  for  I  am  a 
witness.  I  was  in  the  mission  and 
presided  over  the  mission  for  four 
years.  I  was  the  first  President  of 
the  Relief  Society  in  Mexico,  and 
we  set  them  to  work  sewing.  We 
organized  a  little  Sunday  School, 
and  all  these  associations,  and  they 
began  to  work;  and  today  you  go 
to  their  Sunday  Schools  and  their 
little  entertainments  and  hear  their 
prayers ;  and  you  go  to  the  Relief 
Society  and  see  what  they  have 
done;  and  if  you  had  been  there 
you  would  have  seen  that  the  fruits 
are  just  as  uplifting,  just  as  splen- 
did with  those  Mexicans  as  they  are 
with  the  Anglo-Saxon,  with  the 
Germans,  with  the  Americans,  or 
any  other  people  on  the  earth.  What 
is  it?  The  gospel  has  done  it,  the 
system  that  we  teach  and  advocate. 

Now,  I  bear  you  my  testimony 
that  I  know  the  gospel  is  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation,  in  things 
temporal,  spiritual,  moral,  and  phys- 
ical. May  we  be  true  to  it  is  my 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

ELDER  E.  FRANK  BIRCH. 

(President    of   the   Tintic    Stake  of 
Zion) 

My  dear  friends,  I  assure  you 
that  it  is  a  surprise  to  me  to  be 
called  on  here  today  to  speak.  It 
reminds  me  something  of  a  mis- 
sion field  to  stand  before  an  audi- 
ence in  the  open  air.  • 

You  who  have  been  on  missions 
in  the  world  will  recall  that  many 
times  you  have  been  asked  if  you 
believed  in  Christ,  and  you  have 


believed  in  Christ,  and  you  have 
asked,  "Then  why  are  you  preach- 
ing to  us?  We  also  believe  in 
Christ.  What  is  the  difference  be- 
tween your  Church  and  our  church  ? 
You  are  Christians  and  we  are 
Christians.  Why  spend  your  money 
and  your  time  to  preach  to  us  peo- 
ple here?" 

For  a  moment  you  wonder,  and 
you  stop  to  think.  But  if  you  will 
think  long  enough,  you  will  realize 
the  great  difference,  the  wonder- 
ful difference.  It  has  been  ex- 
plained here  today — the  difference 
of  service,  the  difference  between 
a  Church  holding  the  priesthood 
and  a  church  not  holding  it. 

There  is  a  quotation  in  the  New 
Testament  by  Paul  to  the  Corin- 
thians. In  it  he  says,  in  substance : 
Some  of  you  have  the  gift  of  heal- 
ing, some  will  have  the  gift  of 
prophecy,  some  of  wisdom,  some 
one  thing,  some  another.  I  often 
think  of  that  when  I  attend  the 
meetings  of  the  different  churches 
in  the  world.  No  reflection — it  is 
only  a  matter  of  a  difference  of 
opinion  with  them — but  I  often 
think  of  it,  when  I  see  one  man 
who  prays,  one  man  who  preaches, 
one  man  who  blesses,  one  man  who 
dojes  all  in  the  church.  The  rest 
merely  stand  or  sit  and  listen. 

We  know  that  it  is  service  that 
makes  us  in  this  Church.  We  know 
that  this  Church  gives  us  an  oppor- 
tunity to  grow,  to  serve  the  Lord, 
to  exercise  his  priesthood. 

I  am  working  at  the  present  time 
at  a  mining  camp,  in  Tintic.  I 
can  bear  testimony  that  this  prin- 
ciple of  service  and  of  the  priest- 
hood is  making  thousands  of  good 
men  and  women.  We  have  an  op- 
portunity there  to  meet  the  younger 
people  who  come  from  the  "valley 
towns"  as  we  term  them,  from  your 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


city,  from  other  cities  in  this  stake 
and  other  stakes.  They  come  there 
and  the  first  thing  we  do,  we  get 
them  to  meeting.  And  they  do  not 
attend  long  before  they  are  being 
encouraged  to  attend  to  meetings. 
They  soon  become  ward  teachers. 
Then  you  will  find  them  holding  the 
higher  priesthood,  presiding  in  the 
organizations,  bishops  of  the  wards, 
and  so  on ;  they  are  growing  and 
improving.  Now  I  do  not  exceed 
the  truth  when  I  say  that  we  have 
over  a  thousand  at  least  who  are 
keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  who 
hold  prayer  in  their  homes,  who 
are  good  and  true  to  their  families, 
who  are  growing  to  be  intelligent, 
good,  true,  honorable  citizens  of  the 
United  States.  And  what  has  done 
it?  I  can  see  the  greatest  thing 
that  has  done  it — service  in  the 
priesthood,  service  in  the  Church. 

When  I  attend  other  churches,  I 
often  think  of  the  young  lady  who 
was  asked  if  she  could  play  the 
piano.  She  said  she  did  not  know, 
she  had  never  tried.  I  think  of  the 
many  people  in  the  world.  How  do 
you  know  that  you  have  the  gift  of 
prophecy,  as  Paul  said  some  have? 
How  do  you  know  that  you  have 
the  gift  of  wisdom,  the  gift  of 
healing,  if  you  never  take  part?  If 
you  never  try,  if  you  never  culti- 
vate those  gifts  that  God  has  given 
you,  you  will  never  know  it. 

I  rejoiced  when  I  heard  today  of 
the  great  work  that  is  being  done 
in  Mexico  and  in  the  mission  fields, 
the  work  done  in  other  stakes,  and 
think  of  the  work  that  is  being  done 
in  the  mining  camps,  in  the  Tintic 
mining  camp.  A  few  years  ago 
there  were  very  few  Latter-day 
Saints  in  the  Tintic  camp.  A  few 
years  ago  it  was  said  that  they 
could  not  work  there,  they  would 


not  have  them ;  but  our  people  now 
form  thirty-five  or  forty  per  cent 
of  that  population ;  and  I  am  thank- 
ful to  say  that  they  are  preaching 
the  gospel  by  their  exemplary  lives, 
by  their  cleanliness,  their  purity, 
their  patriotism  to  our  great  gov- 
ernment. And  today  our  people 
are  requested,  almost  more  than 
they  can  attend  to,  to  look  after  the 
great  things  that  need  looking  after 
during  these  extraordinary  times. 

I  thank  the  Lord  that  I  have  the 
privilege  to  speak  to  the  people  on 
the  principles  of  life  and  salvation, 
and  rejoice  in  the  greatness  of  the 
gospel.  I  pray  God  to  bless  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  bless  the  honest 
in  heart  the  world  over,  and  I  ask 
it  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

By  brethren  and  sisters:  You 
have  had  the  privilege  of  hear- 
ing fron  men  whom  God  has 
chosen  in  this  dispensation  to  rep- 
resent a  number  of  the  stakes  of 
Zion,  and  also  a  voice  from  the 
mission  field.  I  think  that  you 
must  have  been  impressed  as  I  have 
been  impressed,  that  all  is  well  with 
Zion  when  such  men  with  such  tes- 
timonies are  in  the  lead  and  guiding 
and  directing  the  affairs  of  this 
Church.  I  rejoice  this  morning  in 
the  testimonies  which  we  have 
heard,  in  the  work  that  is  being 
done,  for  I  know  that  it  is  indeed 
the  work  of  God.  I  know,  too, 
that  the  work  of  God  is  one  that 
harmonizes  with  the  spirit  of  hu- 
man liberty,  as  was  stated  by  the 
first  speaker  here. 

What  are  the  things  that  the  gos- 
pel of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  stands 
for?    It  is  to  make  men  free,  not 


ELDER  RULEN  S.  WELLS 


115 


free  only  by  having  possession  of 
their  civil  rights,  but  to  make  them 
free  indeed,  free  from  that  terrible 
bondage  which  is  the  bondage  of 
sin — for  we  know  that  the  whole 
world  lieth  in  sin  and  under  the 
bondage  of  sin.  And  the  truth  that 
has  been  revealed  from  heaven  will 
make  men  free.  And  it  is  that 
truth  that  is  being  promulgated  and 
proclaimed  to  all  the  world  through 
the  agency  of  the  priesthood  to 
which  also  reference  has  been 
made.  The  men  whom  you  have 
heard  form  a  part  of  that,  and  are 
the  instruments  in  the  hands  of  God 
of  carrying  this  messag^  to  the 
world,  that  our  Father's  children 
may  be  made  free  from  the  sins  of 
the  world.  And  the  gospel  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation,  be- 
cause it  wages  war  on  sin  and  un- 
dertakes to  relieve  our  Father's 
children  of  the  consequences  of 
that  sin. 

This  government  of  which  we 
form  a  part  has  been  established 
for  the  same  purpose,  that  men  and 
women  might  be  free,  and  that  is 
the  reason  we  say  that  the  Consti- 
tution of  this  land  was  inspired  of 
God  for  the  same  purpose,  that  we 
might  have  meted  out  to  us  a  meas- 
ure of  civil  liberty.  That  is  what 
we  are  enjoying  in  this  country, 
and  we  are  willing  to  extend  it  to 
all  of  our  Father's  children,  wher- 
ever they  dwell.  We  read  in  the 
Declaration  of  Independence  that 
all  men  are  created  equal,  and  that 
they  are  possessed  with  certain  in- 
alienable rights-,  among  which  are 
life,  liberty,  and  the  pursuit  of  hap- 
piness. This  is  what  the  gospel 
stands  for.  Right  to  live  upon  the 
earth  is  the  boon  from  heaven, 
which  emanates  from  God,  the  priv- 
ilege of  living  upon  the  earth.  That 


is  life,  but  what  is  life  without  lib- 
erty? Our  great  patriot,  Patrick 
Henry,  said,  "Give  me  liberty,  or 
give  me  death."  That  is  what  we 
feel  in  regard  to  this  system  of  hu- 
man liberty  and  freedom.  These 
things  may  not  be  valued  by  those 
who  understand  them  not,  they 
think  it  is  a  trifling  thing,  but  to 
us  these  are  precious  gifts  worthy  of 
offering  our  lives  and  sending  our 
boys  out  into  the  mission  field  for. 
Then  let  our  hearts  go  out  with 
them  and  let  us  be  willing  to  do  our 
part  to  sustain  them,  to  provide 
them  with  the  necessaries,  and  let 
us  contribute  of  our  means. 

We  are  called  upon  to  contrib- 
ute to  the  Third  Liberty  Loan,  and 
there  are  some  with  plenty  of  means 
who  are  loath  to  lend  to  the  Gov- 
ernment. Let  me  tell  you,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  every  one  of  us, 
the  time  will  come  when  we  must 
give  all  that  we  are  able  to  get  (or 
at  least  loan  it).  Which  would 
you  sooner  do?  Lend  it  to  the 
United  States  Government,  that 
has  been  established  by  the  inspira- 
tion of  God  that  men  might  be 
free,  or  pay  it  in  tribute  to  the  Ger- 
man government  without  getting 
any  interest  on  it,  that  you  might 
be  brought  into  servitude?  Which 
would  you  do?  One  or  the  other 
will  come  to  us,  you  may  be  sure. 
Let  us  then  be  loyal  American  cit- 
izens, and  contribute  freely  to  this 
Liberty  Loan  by  subscribing  to  the 
bonds  of  this  government  that  holds 
up  the  banner  of  liberty  to  all  the 
world,  the  precious  thing  that  the 
gospel  stands  for.  May  the  Lord 
help  us  to  appreciate  it,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Captain  C.  M.  Hawser,  of  Georgia. 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


SECOND  OVERFLOW 
MEETING. 

A  second  overflow  meeting  was 
held  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  at  2 
o'clock  p.  m.,  Elder  J.  Golden  Kim- 
ball, of  the  First  Council  of  Sev- 
enty, presiding. 

The  singing  and  music  were  fur- 
nished by  the  united  choirs  of  the 
Granite  stake  of  Zion,  Professor 
Evan  Stephens,  conducting. 

The  choirs  and  congregation 
sang:  "America." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Rod- 
ney C.  Badger. 

The  choirs  and  congregation 
sang:  "Loyal  to  the  true  and  the 
right." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON. 

(President  of  the  California  Mission) 

In  the  remarks  made  by  Elder 
David  O.  McKay  this  morning,  he 
stated  that  "the  hour  and  the  day 
have  come  when  the  nations  of  the 
earth  must  accept  the  reality  of 
Jesus  the  Christ."  He  summarized 
the  reading  of  some  books  with  the 
statement  that  men  believe  that 
Jesus  is  an  etherial,  incorporeal 
spirit,  not  a  personality.  In  other 
words,  that  even  Jesus  Christ  who 
tabernacled  in  the  flesh  among  the 
children  of  men,  has  become  a  prin- 
ciple or  a  spirit,  such  as  they  have 
contended  that  God  the  Father  is. 

I  take  it  that  they  may  be  par- 
doned in  a  way  for  not  being  able 
to  account  for  some  of  the  passages 
of  scripture,  namely,  of  St.  John's 
wherein  he  says  that  "God  is  a 
Spirit,"  and  that  we  must  "Worship 
him  in  spirit  and  in  truth."  An- 
other of  Paul's  statements,  wherein 
he  says  that  "there  is  one  God,  who 


is  above  all,  and  over  all,  and  in 
you  all,  and  through  all,"  and  a 
statement  of  the  Master's  that  "the 
kingdom  of  God  is  within  you." 
Because  of  these  statements  they 
sometimes  spiritualize,  possibly  God 
himself,  more  than  they  otherwise 
would  have  done.  One  of  the 
greatest  labors  upon  us  in  the  mis- 
sion field  is  to  harmonize  the  state- 
ment that  God  is  a  personal  being 
with  his  divine  immanence.  Hav- 
ing been  created  in  the  form  of 
God ;  knowing  that  he  walked  and 
talked  with  Adam  in  Eden's  gar- 
den ;  that  he  taught  Adam  how  to 
prune  the  vine  and  dress  it ;  in- 
structed Noah  in  the  art  of  ship- 
building; dined  with  Abraham  on 
the  plains  of  Mamre ;  wrestled  with 
Jacob,  and  gave  him  a  name  so 
pregnant  with  big  results  or  bless- 
ings, namely  that  he  was  not  a 
usurper,  as  Jacob  indicates,  but 
"Israel,"  one  who  had  prevailed 
among  princes  with  the  Most 
High ;  his  meeting  with  Moses, 
speaking  with  him  face  to  face  as 
one  man  speaks  with  another,  and 
not  in  dark  sayings ;  being  beheld 
by  five  hundred  elders  and  others ; 
announcing  his  pleasure  in  the  bap- 
tism of  his  Son  at  Jordan's  flood ; 
speaking  of  him  again  upon  the 
mount  of  transfiguration ;  and  re- 
vealing himself  anew  in  this  dis- 
pensation to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith — to  us  is  sufficient  testimony 
that  God  is  a  personal  being. 

It  is  true  that  Paul  said  of  the 
Christ  that  he  is  "the  express  image 
of  his  Father's  person,"  and  the 
Master  himself  said,  that  "he  who 
hath  seen  me  hath  seen  the  Father." 
The  Christ  was  born  of  woman,  as 
men  are  born  in  the  flesh.  He  grew 
up  as  children  grow  up  to  man- 
hood.   He  suffered  the  distress  and 


JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON 


117 


pains  of  mortality,  and  was  taunted 
by  the  physicians  of  his  day  be- 
cause he  healed  not  himself  as  he 
healed  others  and  raised  the  dead 
to  life.  He  was  spat  upon,  smit- 
ten and  crucified  as  a  malefactor,  as 
other  men  have  been  misused, 
abused  and  put  to  death. 

One  of  the  procurators  of  Judea, 
Publius  Lentulus,  writing  to  the 
Senate  of  Rome,  describes  the 
Christ,  his  form,  his  person,  the 
color  of  his  beard,  his  eyes,  said 
he  was  accounted  as  a  prophet  of 
truth  among  his  followers  and  a 
man  of  exceeding  'worth  among 
the  Gentiles,  and  he  speaks  of  him 
as  a  man  with  divine  power :  and 
so  to  the  people  of  that  day  he 
seemed  a  man  among  men,  except 
to  those  who  believed  in  his  divine 
begetting.  It  was  aftefr  his  tri- 
umphant ascension  from  the  tomb, 
when  the  bands  of  death  had  been 
broken,  when  he  stood  before  his 
disciples  as  an  immortalized  being, 
that  they  came  to  know  him  for  a 
verity,  as  the  living  Son  of  God. 
He  stood  in  the  midst  of  his  breth- 
ren, and  they  were  afrighted  at 
first,  thinking  they  had  seen  a  spir- 
it, but  he  told  them  to  put  forth 
their  hands  and  touch  him,  and  he 
assured  them  that  it  was  he,  even 
the  Christ,  and  invited  them  to 
handle  him  and  said,  "  a  spirit 
hath  not  flesh  and  bones  as  ye  see 
me  have.  "He  even  partook  of 
broiled  fish  and  honey  with  them, 
convincing  them  that  he  had  again 
taken  up  his  body  from  the  grave. 
He  ascended  into  heaven,  and  the 
angels,  who  stood  by,  declared  that 
as  he  ascended,  so  in  like  manner 
should  he  descend.  And  John,  the 
beloved,  said,  "We  know  not  what 
manner  of  men  we  shall  be,  but 
when  he  comes  we  shall  see  him  as 
he  is,  and  we  shall  be  like  him." 


This  doctrine  is  confirmed  in  the 
minds  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
of  many  other  people,  that  Jesus  is 
not  a  spirit  in  the  sense  that  he  is 
"incomprehensible,"  as  the  creed  of 
the  fathers  declared,  that  he  is  not 
diffused  throughout  all  space,  but 
that  he  is  an  individual  and  not  a 
spirit  merely,  as  so  often  taught  in 
the  philosophies  of  men. 

I  cannot  hope  in  the  few  brief 
moments  that  should  be  mine  to 
make  a  full  exposition  of  this  truth. 
But  I  want  to  read  to  you  a  little 
from  the  gospel  of  St.  John,  and 
then,  without  reading,  quote  some 
of  the  revelations  given  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  in  this  day 
which  enable  us  by  the  light  of 
truth  to  harmonize  these  two  prin- 
ciples that  seem  paradoxical  or  op- 
posed one  to  the  other. 

John  tells  us : 

In  the  beginning  was  the  Word, 
and  the  Word  was  with  God,  and  the 
Word  was  God.  The  same  was  in 
the  beginning  with  God.  All  things 
were  made  by  him;  and  without  him 
was  not  anything  made  that  was 
made.  In  him  was  life;  and  the  life 
was  the  light  of  men.  And  the  light 
shineth  in  darkness;  and  the  darkness 
comprehended  it  not. 

In  "Elijah,"  rendered  so  beauti- 
fully by  the  tabernacle  choir,  we 
read  the  following  words,  from 
the  Book  of  Kings,  modified  a  lit- 
tle by  the  poet  to  suit  the  rhythm 
and  melody  of  music : 

Behold,  God  the  Lord  passed  by, 
and  a  mighty  wind  rent  the  mountains 
asunder,  and  break  in  pieces  the 
rocks,  and  they  passed  before  the 
Lord,  but  yet  the  Lord  was  not  in 
the  tempest.  Behold,  God  the  Lord 
passed  by,  and  the  sea  was  upheaved, 
and  the  earth  was  shaken;  but  yet 
the  Lord  was  not  in  the  earthquake. 
And  after  the  earthquake  there  came 
a  fire,  and  yet  the  Lord  was  not  in 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  fire.  And  after  the  fire  there 
came  a  still  small  voice,  and  in  that 
still  small  voice  .onward  came  the 
Lord. 

Men  have  declared  that  God  is 
found  in  the  blade  of  grass,  in  the 
flowers  that  bud  and  blow,  in  the 
rivers  and  in  the  rills ;  that  his 
voice  is  heard  in  the  thunder-bolt, 
and  that  he  is  found  in  all  ani- 
mate and  inanimate  nature.  But 
here  in  the  Book  of  Kings,  we  read 
that  he  was  not  in  the  tempest,  he 
was  not  in  the  earthquake,  he  was 
not  in  the  fire,  but  in  the  still  small 
voice.  • 

I  have  read  to  you  the  key  that 
will  harmonize  the  statement  that 
God  is  through  all  things  and  in 
all  things,  and  that  he  is  a  personal 
being.  He  was  the  "life  and  the 
light  of  men,"  and  the  Prophet 
Joseph  tells  us  that  in  his  divine  im- 
manence "it  is  the  light  of  Christ," 
the  light  of  truth,  that  it  is  in  the 
sun  and  in  the  moon  and  in  the 
stars,  that  permeates  throughout  all 
space,  and  even  the  stars  of  other 
universes  than  ours  are  lighted  by 
his  spirit,  and  "his  curtains  are 
stretched  out  still."  That  light  that 
is  millions  of  years  coming  to  us 
from  some  distant  sun  is  the  "light 
of  Christ"  as  much  as  it  is  the  light 
of  men.  His  spirit  is  through  all 
things,  he  hath  made  all  things,  he 
was  the  Word  in  the  beginning,  and 
was  made  flesh  and  dwelt  amongst 
men;  he  is  the  life  and  the  light  of 
men.  This  the  Latter-day  Saint 
understands. 

To  illustrate  it  in  its  immensity 
and  wondrous  glory  and  beauty  is 
beyond  my  power;  and  yet,  here 
in  this  building,  during  the  night 
hours,  we  have  the  light  from  these 
arc  lamps  that  light  up  the  entire 
section  of  the  building.    And  yet 


it  is  not  the  light  itself  that  perme- 
ates the  room ;  it  is  not  the  sun 
itself  that  comes  to  us  today 
through  the  clouds,  and  makes  it 
possible  for  us  to  behold  each  oth- 
er's countenances,  but  it  is  the  light 
of  the  sun,  not  the  sun  itself.  And 
so  it  is  with  the  light  of  Christ 
that  is  in  the  sun  and  in  the  moon 
and  in  the  stars  and  in  all  things — 
"in  them  all  and  through  them  all," 
and  by  which  all  things  are  made 
and  are  sustained.  And  when  men 
of  the  world  understand  this  divine 
truth,  there  will  not  be  the  trouble 
that  exists  now  in  harmonizing  the 
statement  that  God  is  a  personal 
being  and  that  God  is  a  Spirit  as 
well. 

May  the  Lord  guide  us  to  his 
praise,  enlighten  us  by  his  Spirit, 
give  us  the  courage  and  faith  to 
.walk  in  his  paths,  and  set  our  affec- 
tions upon  the  things  of  eternal 
worth,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JAMES  W.  LESUEUR. 

(President  of  the  Maricopa  Stake  of 
Zion) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  pray 
for  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  while  I 
shall  speak  to  you.  It  was  forty- 
one  years  ago,  on  the  17th  of  last 
March,  when  the  colonists  first 
went  to  the  Maricopa  stake  of  Zion, 
sent  by  the  President  of  the  Church 
to  do  missionary  work  among  the 
Indians.  I  thoug'ht  this  afternoon 
it  might  be  of  interest  to  you  to 
know  what  the  Church  is  doing  for 
the  Indians  in  Arizona. 

We  have  living  in  our  stake  some 
three  hundred  members  who  are 
Indians.  We  have  two  missions 
there,    with    headquarters.  The 


JAMES  W.  LESUEUR 


119 


Church  is  very  liberal  in  helping 
these  good  people.  Our  mission- 
aries go  out  among  these  Indians 
and  work  with  them  on  the  farm, 
helping  them  to  prepare  the  ground 
for  the  purtting  in  of  their  crops, 
building  their  homes,  and  in  pro- 
viding for  them  the  necessary  seed, 
and  the  materials  with  which  to 
build  their  homes.  We  get  splen- 
did results,  for  they  are  a  good 
people.  I  doubt  if  in  all  the  Church 
there  are  any  who  live  their  religion 
more  strictly  than  do  the  Lamanites 
of  the  Maricopa  stake  of  Zion.  At 
one  time  we  had  a  bishop  who  did 
not  keep  the  word  of  wisdom,  who 
was  in  charge  of  these  Indians.  He 
reported  at  one  of  the  conferences 
that  he  was  the  only  person  in  his 
ward  who  did  not  keep  the  word  of 
wisdom. — Brother  Kimball  wants 
to  know  what  we  did  with  him. 
He  was  released. 

We  have  in  our  stake  a  high 
councilor  who  is  a  Lamanite.  We 
have  an  Indian  who  is  a  superin- 
tendent of  Sunday  schools,  and  a 
very  faithful  brother.  We  have  also 
a  number  of  Indians  who  are  faith- 
ful missionaries,  and  these  faithful 
Lamanites  have  done  100  per  cent 
ward  teaching,  and  their  average 
attendance  at  their  sacrament  meet- 
ings is  over  50  per  cent. 

A  good  work  is  also  being  done 
among  the  Indians  in  our  stake,  at 
the  Indian  school.  The  govern- 
ment of  the  United  States  has  per- 
mitted us,  with  the  other  churches, 
to  have  our  Indian  children  twice 
a  week,  and  preach  the  gospel  to 
them.  The  children  are  all  brought 
into  a  main  building,  where  the 
different  churches  have  the  priv- 
ilege of  teaching  their  own  children 
twice  a  week.  This  was  at  the  so- 
licitation of  our  people.     We  are 


doing  a  great  deal  of  good  among 
them  in  that  way. 

Our  people  have  known  of  these 
tribes  of  Indians  in  Arizona  for  a 
great  many  years.  When  the  boys 
of  the  "Mormon"  Battalion  made 
their  historic  march  from  Santa  Fe 
to  the  coast  they  met  some  of  these 
Indians,  and  learned  something 
about  them. 

In  our  stake,  too,  we  have  evi- 
dences of  the  divine  authenticity 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  We  have 
there  the  ruins  of  a  great  city, 
probably  at  one  time  fifteen  miles 
wide  and  thirty  or  forty  miles  long. 
And  that  immense  Salt  River  valley 
was  once  peopled  by  the  Nephites 
with  a  larger  population  than  occu- 
pies it  today.  Just  a  mile  from 
Mesa  are  the  ruins  of  great  build- 
ings which  those  people  erected. 
There  is  a  building  450  feet  long' 
by  350  feet  wide.  I  estimate  that 
it  had  at  least  a  thousand  rooms 
when  it  was  being  used,  and  around 
this  building  are  the  signs  of  a  great 
wall  that  used  to  protect  it. 

When  our  people  went  to  the 
Salt  River  valley  forty-one  years 
ago,  the  people  were  poor,  and  un- 
able to  get  the  water  out.  But  they 
found  the  signs  of  a  great  canal 
those  Nephites  had  used.  They 
cleaned  out  that  canal  for  twelve 
miles,  made  a  dam  across  the  river, 
and  turned  the  water  out  on  to  the 
thirsty  soil,  and  for  a  number  of 
years  our  people  had  the  use  of 
that  canal.  Then  the  government 
came  and  built  the  great  Roosevelt 
canal.  But  after  careful,  scientific 
investigation  by  the  best  engineers, 
this  old  Nephite  canal  was  found 
to  be  built  just  where  it  should  be, 
and  was  followed.  There  are  parts 
even  now  of  the  Salt  River  valley 
that  are  not  being  irrigated  which 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


were  used  by  those  Nephite  people 
in  times  past. 

The  Indians  of  the  Salt  River 
valley  have  traditions  of  the  time 
when  there  was  a  great  flood.  They 
point  you  to  the  great  mountain, 
the  Superstition  mountain,  and  they 
say  that  is  the  place  where  a  great 
boat  landed  when  the  flood  was 
over  the  earth,  and  a  bird  was  sent 
out,  and  brought  from  that  moun- 
tain twigs,  and  the  boat  was  steered 
that  way  and  landed  on  that  moun- 
tain. Then  the  water  receded  from 
both  sides  of  the  mountain,  and  left 
only  two  streams,  one  the  Salt 
River  on  the  north,  and  the  Gila 
River  on  the  south.  They  have 
traditions  of  a  time  when  the  Su- 
preme Being  was  among  them,  do- 
ing a  wonderful  work,  and  they 
look  forward  to  his  coming  again. 
A  great  many  statements  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon  in  regard  to  the 
history  of  their  forefathers  are 
borne  out  by  their  traditions. 

I  take  great  joy  in  laboring 
among  these  Lamajiite  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  there  are  some  ten 
or  twelve  thousand  of  them  in  Ari- 
zona. 

The  people  of  Arizona  are  very 
friendly  to  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
Not  long  ago,  when  we  were  in  the 
prohibition  campaign,  they  asked 
us  to  go  and  give  talks  in  Phoenix 
on  prohibition.  During  a  talk  to  a 
great  audience  there  some  one 
spoke  up  and  asked  about  one  of 
the  apostles. 

I  thanked  him  for  calling  atten- 
tion to  the  fact  that  I  was  a  "Mor- 
mon," for  I  told  them  that  if  there 
was  anything  I  was  proud  of  it  was 
the  fact  that  I  am  a  "Mormon." 
And  I  told  them  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  have  what  they  call  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  that  they  do 


not  believe  in  using  liquor,  tea,  cof- 
fee or  tobacco.  What  is  the  re- 
sult? In  Arizona,  out  of  469  in- 
mates in  the  insane  asylum,  we  had 
two,  while  in  proportion  to  popula- 
tion, we  should  have  twenty.  I 
told  them  that  one  of  the  chief  rea- 
sons for  that  was  that  we  are  a 
moral  and  a  temperate  people  and 
we  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  Out 
of  169  in  the  penitentiary  we  had 
but  one  who  claimed  a  membership 
in  the  Church,  while  in  proportion 
we  should  have  nineteen  or  twenty. 
In  the  industrial  school  we  had 
none ;  at  the  poor  farm  none ;  in 
the  various  hospitals  we  had  none. 
Hence,  I  told  them  that  I  was  proud 
that  I  am  a  member  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  also  told  them  the  fact, 
that  the  birth-rate  among  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  compared  with  the 
death  rate  was  five  births  to  one 
death,  while  the  statistics  of  the 
state  the  pervious  year  showed  a 
very  much  smaller  proportion  of 
births.  I  told  them  they  ought  to  be 
thankful  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
saved  the  state.  There  would  have 
been  more  deaths  than  births  if  we 
had  not  been  there.  So  I  had  the 
privilege  of  giving  my  testimony  in 
regard  to  the  vital  statistics  of  the 
people. 

I  am  proud  to  be  a  member  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  I  pray  God  to  bless 
us  all  that  we  may  be  faithful  and 
true,  which  I  ask  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  duet,  entitled,  "Make  the  home 
beautiful,"  was  sung  by  Margaret 
and  Lillian  Summerhays,  the  sing- 
ing being  preceded  by  a  brief  ex- 
planatory of  the  song  by  Professor 
Stephens. 


ELDER  W  ILL  ARB  L.  JONES. 


121 


ELDER  WILLARD  L.  JONES. 

(President   of   the   Moapa   Stake  of 
Zion) 

It  is  in  humility,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  I  stand  before  you 
for  a  few  moments,  this  afternoon, 
and  I  trust  that  the  spirit  of  truth 
will  direct  my  utterances  while  1 
am  here. 

i  I  am  grateful  for  the  opportunity 
I  have  of  attending  the  general 
conference  of  the  Church,  coming 
here  and  listening  to  the  testimo- 
nies of  President  Smith  and  of  the 
leading  brethren  who  are  associ- 
ated with  him,  who  are  the  lead- 
ers of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  es- 
teem, khis  a  great  privilege,  'my 
brethren  and  sisters,  and  I  rejoice 
that  I  can  come  here  and  worship 
the  Lord  with  you,  and  partake 
with  you  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
enjoyed  upon  these  occasions. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  testimony 
that  I  have  concerning  the  great 
Latter-day  work  and  its  divinity, 
and  I  pray  that  it  shall  be  an  abid- 
ing one.  I  hope  and  pray  that  my 
ligjit  in  life  during  the  remainder 
of  my  sojourn  upon  the  earth  shall 
be  among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  be- 
cause I  love  the  truth.  I  love  the 
associations  of  my  brethren  and 
sisters.  I  love  the  association  of 
those  whom  the  Lord  has  called  to 
preside  over  his  people. 

I  believe  that  if  there  has  ever 
been  a  soul  who  spoke  as  one  hav- 
ing authority,  it  is  the  President  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  the  man  who  stands 
at  the  head  of  this  great  work  at 
the  present  time.  I  believe  that  he 
is  indeed  the  servant  of  the  true  and 
living  God.  I  believe  also  that  the 
Presidency,  the  Twelve,  and  the 
seven   presidents   of  Seventy  are 


men  after  the  Lord's  •  own 
heart,  who  have  been  chosen  to 
direct  his  work  in  the  earth.  I 
rejoice  in  listening  to  the  words  of 
encouragement  and  instruction 
from  these  our  beloved  brethren, 
and  I  am  thankful  that  I  have  been 
born  of  goodly  parents,  who  in  their 
own  native  land  had  sufficient  faith 
to  come  to  these  valleys  of  the 
mountains,  and  that  as  their  son  I 
have  been  privileged  to  be  reared 
in  the  gospel  covenant.  I  pray  that 
I  may  always  be  found  doing  the 
things  which  are  right  and  pleasing 
before  our  Maker. 

I  am  reminded  of  a  saying  of 
President  Lincoln.  During  a  crit- 
ical time  that  confronted  him  and 
the  Nation,  some  clergymen  came 
into  his  office,  and  in  conversation 
with  him  one  of  them  said :  "Mr. 
President,'  do  you  think  that  the 
Lord  is  upon  our  side?"  Presi- 
dent Lincoln  replied  to  this  effect : 
"That  is  not  a  matter  that  con- 
cerns me  so  much ;  but  the  thing 
that  concerns  me  most  of  all  is, 
are  we  upon  the  Lord's  side?"  I 
think  that  that  statement  can  be 
applied  to  us  as  Latter-day  Saints. 
I  think  the  thing  that  concerns  us 
most  of  all,  as  members  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  is,  Are  we  upon  the 
Lord's  side  ?  We  have  been  brought 
into  the  Church,  we  have  had  faith 
in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  we  have 
repented  of  our  sins,  and  have  gone 
down  into  the  waters  of  baptism, 
and  have  had  hands  laid  upon  our 
heads  for  the  reception  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  We  have  entered  that 
straight  and  narrow  path  that  will 
lead  men  back  unto  the  Father. 
Having  done  this,  it  is  for  us  to  fol- 
low the  admonitions  given :  add  to 
our  faith    virtue ;    and  to  virtue, 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


knowledge  ;  and  to  knowledge,  tem- 
perance, and  to  temperance,  broth- 
erly kindness.  The  apostle  says 
that  if  these  things  abound  in  us 
then  we  will  not  be  barren  nor  un- 
fruitful. But,  further,  he  that  lack- 
eth  these  things  is  blind  and  cannot 
see  afar  off,  and  he  has  forgotten 
that  he  has  been  purged  of  his  own 
sins.  So,  in  our  lives,  if  we  under- 
take to  follow  the  path  which  the 
Lord  has  marked  out  for  us,  and 
fail  to  follow  after  the  admonitions 
of  our  leaders,  I  feel  then  that  we 
are  on  a  path  that  leads  to  destruc- 
tion, and  are  not  on  the  Lord's  side. 
But  if  we  are  continually  adding  to 
our  faith  works,  doing  those  things 
that  the  Lord  points  out  for  us, 
then  I  believe  we  may  feel  that  we 
are  on  the  Lord's  side.  As  we  are 
told  in  the  old  scriptures,  the  Lord's 
arm  is  not  short,  that  he  will  not 
save,  nor  his  ear  heavy  that  he  will 
not  hear,  but  if  you  are  divided 
from  your  God  it  is  because  of  your 
iniquities.    So  it  is  with  us. 

I  bear  witness  to  you  that  if  we 
are  faithful,  and  not  ashamed  of 
the  gospel  of  Christ,  but  will  bear 
witness  of  the  truth  of  this  great 
work,  as  we  have  opportunity  from 
time  to  time,  the  Lord  will  hear 
our  prayers,  inasmuch  as  we  ask 
not  amiss. 

I  remember  one  of  the  brethren 
attending  our  conference  some  time 
ago  relating  an  instance  of  a  man 
who  had  lived  among  our  people 
most  of  his  life,  and  upon  his  death 
bed  the  elders  of  the  Church  were 
called  upon  to  administer  cheer  and 
the  necessaries  of  life  unto  him.  In 
the  course  of  their  conversation 
they  related  to  him  the  mission  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the  gos- 
pel of  the  Redeemer,  and  what  the 


Latter-day  Saints  were  endeavor- 
ing to  accomplish  in;,  ithe  /fearth. 
Though  this  man  had  lived  among 
our  people  most  of  his  life,  he  had 
never  known  our  doctrines,  hav- 
ing never  taken  advantage  of  listen- 
ing to  the  servants  of  the  Lord. 
Neither  had  the  brethren  and  sisters 
who  were  his  associates  taken  ad- 
vantage of  their  opportunities  to 
explain  to  him  the  principles  of 
truth.  And  this  man,  upon  his 
deathbed,  demanded  of  them  the 
reason  why  they  had  not  been  faith- 
ful and  diligent  in  warning  him  and 
others  who  were  in  similar  condi- 
tion, of  the  judgments  that  were  to 
come  and  of  the  blessings  that  were 
in  store  for  those  who  obey  the 
commandments  of  the  Father !  I 
wonder  if  there  are  others  among 
us  who  are  in  a  similar  condition. 
I  wonder  if  we  are  neglecting  our 
opportunities  and  failing  to  teach 
our  brethren  and  sisters  not  of  our 
faith,  of  the  blessings  that  are  in 
store  for  them,  provided  they  ac- 
cept the  gospel  and  live  according 
to  its  teachings.  I  feel  that  many 
times  we  neglect  the  responsibili- 
ties placed  upon  us.  Not  that  we 
are  ashamed  of  the  work  that  the 
Lord  has  given  us,  because  I  be- 
lieve there  are  not  many  of  us  who 
are  afraid  to  bear  our  testimonies 
concerning  the  prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  or  who  are  afraid  to  speak 
of  the  gospel,  and  of  the  great  work 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  en- 
deavoring to  accomplish  in  the 
earth.  But  in  some  instances  we 
are  negligent  and  careless  towards 
our  neighbors  who  know  not  of  the 
blessings  in  store  for  them  pro- 
vided they  accept  the  truth. 

So  I  pray  we  will  avail  ourselves 
of  the  opportunities  God  has  given 


ELDER  WILLARD  L.  JONES. 


123 


us,  that  we  may  rid  our  garments 
of  the  blood  of  all  men,  and  when 
we  shall  appear  before  our  Maker, 
we  will  have  done  our  duty  toward 
the  children  of  men;  having  ex- 
plained upon  every  available  and 
proper  occasion  the  message  of 
eternal  truth,  that  men  everywhere 
may  be  left  without  excuse  in  the 
day  of  the  coming  of  the  Lord. 

You  remember  the  responsibility 
placed  upon  one  of  the  prophets  in 
olden  times,  referred  to  by  Ezekiel 
the  prophet.  The  word  of  the  Lord 
to  that  prophet  was  to  this  effect: 
"Son  of  man,  I  have  set  thee  a 
watchman  over  the  house  of  Israel ; 
therefore  thou  shalt  hear  the  word 
of  the  Lord  at  my  mouth,  and  warn 
them  from  me.  When  I  say  unto 
the  wicked,  thou  shalt  surely  die, 
if  thou  dost  not  speak  to  warn  the 
wicked  of  his  way,  that  wicked  man 
shall  die  in  his  iniquity;  but  his 
blood  will  I  require  at  thy  hand. 
Nevertheless,  if  thou  warn  the 
wicked  of  his  way  to  turn  from  it, 
if  he  do  not  turn  from  his  way  he 
shall  die  in  his  iniquity,  but  thou 
hast  delivered  thy  soul."  I  believe 
that  these  words  can  be  applied  to 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  and  to  the  members 
thereof. 

Any  one  can  bear  testimony  that 
the  leaders  of  this  people  are  tak- 
ing advantage  of  their  opportunity 
to  send  men  to  go  out  and  officiate 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  for  the 
benefit  and  the  salvation  of  (tone 
souls  of  men. 

I  rejoice  in  such  a  work,  and  that 
I  am  a  member  of  a  Church  that  is 
looking  after  the  interests  of  my 
soul  and  your  soul  and  my  neigh- 
bor's soul.   The  leaders  of  this  peo- 


ple are  going  from  the  north  to 
the  south,  and  from  the  east  to  the 
west,  organizing-  the  people  into 
stakes,  wards  and  branches,  and 
bringing  about  the  purposes  of  the 
Lord.  Everywhere  responsibility 
is  being  placed  upon  men  and 
women,  and  the  people  are  being 
warned  that  this  is  the  day  of  re- 
pentance. I  hope  and  pray  that  we 
shall  always  be  proud  of  the  name 
that  we  bear  among  the  children 
of  men. 

I  well  remember  the  words  of 
President  B.'  H.  Roberts,  in  his  last 
speech  before  Congress,  when  he 
had  been  denied  his  seat  there.  He 
said :  "I  shall  walk  the  earth  with 
head  erect,  and  with  brow  undaunt- 
ed.'' These  words  to  me  are  most 
beautiful,  and  I  think  they  should 
enter  deep  into  the  minds  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  the  sentiment 
that  they  will  walk  the  earth  proud 
of  the  name  that  they  have  among 
the  children  of  men,  proud  that 
they  are  members  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  organi- 
zation of  the  Church,  and  for 
prophets  and  apostles  to  lead  Israel, 
and  that  we  are  trying  to  keep  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord.  I  re- 
joice always  in  the  truth.  I  have  a 
testimony  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus 
Christ  was  indeed  his  Son,  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  indeed  the 
prophet  of  the  true  and  living  God, 
and  that  the  men  who  preside  over 
the  Church  are  men  called  of  God 
to  lead  this  people  in  the  dispen- 
sation of  the  fulness  of  times.  I 
pray  that  we  shall  be  true  unto  the 
sacred  covenants  we  have  made, 
and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  EDWARD  C.  RICH. 

(President  of  the  Bear  Lake  Stake  of 
Zion  who  was  introduced  by  Presi- 
dent J.  G.  Kimball  as  a  son  of 
Joseph  C.  Rich,  and  a  grandson  of 
the  late  Elder  Charles  C.  Rich,  of 
the  Council  of  Twelve.) 

I  trust  that  the  Lord  will  bless 
me  while  I  stand  before  you.  I  re- 
joiced in  listening  to  the  opening 
song,  "America."  It  made  me  feel 
proud  that  I  am  an  American,  the 
citizen  of  a  country  which  stands 
for  all  that  is  good  in  a  govern- 
mental way, — 'for  right,  justice,  and 
liberty,  and  these  principles  will  ex- 
tend from  this  government  to  all 
the  world. 

I  am  also  proud  that  I  am  a 
member  of  this  Church,  the  Church 
of  Christ,  and  partaker  of  the  obli- 
gations that  have  been  placed  upon 
this  Church  by  the  Lord.  To  know 
the  way  in  which  these  obligations 
have  been  carried  out  makes  me 
feel  proud  of  my  calling  and  of  my 
Church  and  people.  Jesus  said, 
this  gospel  shall  be  preached  as  a 
witness  unto  all  nations,  and  then 
shall  the  end  come.  From  the  very 
beginning  the  Church  has  sensed 
the  obligations  resting  upon  it. 
They  have  sent  missionaries  to 
every  land  and  clime,  both  in  their 
poverty  and  in  their  prosperity. 
They  have  faithfully  observed  this 
admonition  of  the  Lord. 

I  am  thankful  to  have  had  the 
opportunity  of  raising  my  voice  in 
defense  of  the  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel, both  upon  the  streets  and  in 
the  assemblies  of  this  land,  and  also 
in  foreign  lands.  I  feel  that  the 
Lord  has  blessed  us,  and  if  we  are 
faithful  he  will  continue  to  bless 
us.  But  if  we  neglect  to  observe 
what  has  been  commanded  us  to  do, 
we  shall  suffer  for  that.    It  means 


that  each  one  of  us  is  given  respon- 
sibilities. Certain  thing's  we  must 
perform.  We  must  preach  this 
gospel  to  the  world,  not  only  by 
precept  but  by  example.  There  is 
something  for  those  who  are  left 
at  home  to  accomplish.  We  can 
preach  the  gospel  by  living  up  to 
its  principles  and  its  precepts.  These 
will  sanctify  the  earth.  Jesus  said, 
no  man  can  see  the  kingdom  of  God 
unless  he  is  born  again,  of  the 
water  and  of  the  spirit.  It  matters 
not  what  we  may  think ;  we  must 
abide  by  these  teachings.  We  must 
receive  a  birth  of  the  water  and  of 
the  spirit  in  order  to  enter  into  the 
kingdom  of  heaven.  And  if  it  is 
necessary  for  us,  it  is  necessary  for 
every  creature  to  comply  with  this 
statement  of  Jesus,  and  with  the 
obligations  which  he  placed  upon 
his  twelve  apostles.  After  he  had 
been  crucified  and  risen  from  the 
dead,  and  associated  with  them  for 
forty  days,  the  last  commission  he 
gave  them  was  to  go  into  all  the 
world  and  preach  the  gospel  to 
every  creature ;  he  that  believeth 
and  is  baptized  shall  be  saved,  and 
he  that  believeth  not  shall  be 
damned. 

These  requirements  rest  upon 
this  Church  today,  as  it  has  ever 
rested  upon  the  Church :  to  pro- 
claim faith  in  God,  repentance  from 
sin,  baptism  by  immersion  for  the 
remission  of  sins,  and  confirmation 
into  the  Church  and  the  reception 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on 
of  hands.  These  are  some  of  the 
observances  and  principles  of  the 
gospel  necessary  for  each  one  of  us 
to  receive  in  order  to  be  saved  in 
the  kingdom  of  God.  As  we  hope 
for  that  salvation,  it  is  necessary 
also  that  all  other  people  must  ac- 
cept the  same   conditions.  They 


ELDER  EDWARD  C.  RICH. 


125 


must  receive  the  same  principles 
that  we  observe.  Not  only  is  it 
necessary  that  we  comply  with 
these  principles,  but  it  is  also  nec- 
essary that  we  follow  Jesus  even 
as  he  required  of  the  rich  man  who 
came  to  him  and  asked  him  what  it 
was  necessary  for  him  to  -do  to  be 
saved.  He  told  him  to  go  and  sell 
all  that  he  had,  and  give  it  to  the 
poor,  and  come,  follow  him.  We 
think  sometimes  we  are  absolved 
from  serving  the  Lord.  We  think 
sometimes  that  we  have  accom- 
plished all  that  is  necessary  for  our 
salvation,  but  there  will  never  be 
a  time  while  we  live  upon  the  earth 
that  we  are  not  required  to  do 
something.  We  must  add  to  our 
faith  virtue,  and  to  virtue  knowl- 
edge, and  to  knowledge,  patience, 
and  to  patience  godliness,  and  to 
godliness  brotherly  kindness. 

We  must  add  to  our  lives  these 
saving  principles  of  the  gospel,  and 
observe  them,  and  then  teach  them 
to  our  fellows.  These  are  a  few 
obligations  that  rest  upon  us  as 
members  of  the  Church.  The  na- 
tions of  the  earth  must  hear  them 
and  receive  them,  or  be  condemned 
by  them.  When  the  disciples  of 
Jesus  asked  him,  Master,  are  there 
few  that  be  saved?  he  said,  Enter 
into  the  straight  gate,  for  maay 
shall  try  and  not  be  able.  I  wonder 
why  it  is  if  they  are  desirous  of 
entering  the  kingdom  of  God  that 
they  will  not  be  able  to  do  so.  If 
in  our  hearts  we  feel  that  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord  shall  come  to  us, 
and  we  desire  them  with  all  of  our 
hearts,  I  feel  that  they  will  come  to 
us.  To  my  mind,  the  reason  they 
will  not  enter  in  is  because  they 
will  not  live  up  to  the  requirements 
of  the  gospel. 

I  don't  believe  that  we  can  make 


any  sacrifice  for  life  eternal.  Some 
of  our  seeming  sacrifices  are  only 
privileges  that  come  to  us.  The 
calls  that  come  to  us  to  perform 
missions, — are  they  not  glorious 
privileges  to  us,  and  not  sacrifices? 
And  so  in  our  work  at  home.  And 
if  we  are  faithful  and  true,  the 
Lord  will  bless  us  because  of  our 
fidelity  to  the  truth,  because  we 
love  him  by  keeping  his  command- 
ments. And  that  is  the  only  way 
that  we  can  show  our  love  to  our 
Creator.  He  says,  if  ye  love  me 
keep  my  commandments. 

I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord  may  attend  the  Latter-day 
Saints  wherever  they  may  be. 
Every  part  of  my  being  testifies  to 
me  of  the  truth  of  this  gospel.  I 
am  proud  that  my  father  and 
mother  were  members  of  this 
Church,  and  taught  the  gospel  to 
me,  and  that  my  grandfather  and 
grandmother  were  members  of  this 
Church,  and  that  they  were  not 
afraid  of  the  hardships  incident  to 
the  settlement  of  this  state.  I  am 
proud  of  these  facts,  and  I  want  to 
maintain  their  good  name  in  the 
earth.  I  don't  know  how  it  can  be 
done  better  than  by  keeping  the 
commandments  of  God,  by  serving 
him,  and  accepting  the  principles 
of  the  gospel  that  our  fathers  g'ave, 
and  for  which  they  suffered  so 
much. 

I  will  conclude  by  quoting  the 
sayings  of  our  Savior :  "Whoso- 
ever heareth  these  .sayings  of  mine 
and  doeth  them,  I  will  liken  him 
unto  a  wise  man,  which  built  his 
house  upon  a  rock ;  and  the  rain  de- 
scended, and  the  floods  came,  and 
the  winds  blew  and  beat  upon  that 
house,  and  it  fell  not,  for  it  was 
built  upon  a  rock.  And  every  one 
that  heareth  these  sayings  of  mine, 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  doeth  them  not,  shall  be  likened 
unto  a  foolish  man,  which  built  his 
house  upon  the  sand ;  and  the  rain 
descended,  and  the  floods  came,  and 
the  wind,s  blew  and  beat  upon  that 
house,  and  it  fell,  and  great  was 
the  fall  thereof." 

I  pray  that  those  of  us  who  have 
received  the  gospel  will  maintain  it 
all  our  lives,  by  our  actions  and  by 
all  that  we  have.  I  don't  know  of 
any  Church  in  the  world  that  de- 
mands so  much  from  its  members 
as  does  this  Church,  in  time,  means 
and  talents.  On  the  other  hand, 
there  is  no  Church  in  the  world 
that  gives  so  much  in  return  as  does 
this  Church.  It  gives  us  joy  and 
happiness  here,  and  eternal  life  in 
the  world  to  come. 

I  pray  that  these  blessings  may 
be  for  each  and  every  one  of  us, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  sacred  duet,  entitled,  "Stay 
thou  with  me,"  was  sung-  by  Myrtle 
W.  Doelle,  and  Joseph  Kjar. 

ELDER  HENRY  H.  BLOOD. 

(President  of  the  North  Davis  Stake 
of  ZionO 

The  lateness  of  the  hour  and  the 
presence  on  the  stand  of  other 
brethren  that  the  people  like  to  hear, 
and  that  I  feel  .should  be  heard  by 
this  congregation,  admonish  me 
that  I  should  occupy  but  a  very  few 
moments,  indeed,  this  afternoon.  I 
do  want  to  bear  testimony,  how- 
ever, as  to  my  feelings.  I  have 
never  felt  more  grateful  in  my  life 
for  the  knowledge  that  I  have  of 
the  gospel  than  I  feel  today. 

I  can  scarcely  conceive  of  the 
feelings  of  the  man  who  has  no 
faith  in  God,  and  no  belief  in  reve- 
lation and  in  prophecy,  when  he 


views  the  calamitous  condition  of 
the  world  today,  without  that  hope 
that  comes  to  the  heart  of  the  be- 
liever. 

This  is  a  day,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  when  more  prophecy  is  be- 
ing fulfilled,  perhaps,  in  a  given 
space  of  time  than  has  ever  been 
known  to  be  fulfilled  in  the  history 
of  the  world  before.  I  speak  not 
only  of  the  prophecies  that  have 
been  uttered  and  written  predict- 
ing the  establishment  of  the  Church 
of  which  we  are  proud  to  be  mem- 
bers, although  these  prophecies  are 
among  the  most  important  that 
have  ever  been  uttered  by  men  un- 
der the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of 
Gorl.  These  prophecies  are  being 
fulfilled,  and  have  been  fulfilled  in 
the  establishment  and  building  up 
of  this  Church,  all  the  time,  from 
the  first  manifestation  unto  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  in  the  spring 
of  1820,  that  marvelous  manifesta- 
tion which  made  clear  unto  men 
again  that  God  lives,  and  that  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ  lives,  and  that 
both  are  in  the  likeness  of  men,  or 
rather  that  man  is  in  the  likeness  of 
the  Father.  Xo  greater  revelation 
can  come  to  man  than  that ;  for 
"this  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might 
know  thee,  the  only  true  God,  and 
Testis  Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent." 
If  I  had  time  I  should  like  to  dwell 
upon  that  but  as  it  is  I  shall  only 
say  that  any  man  who  receives  the 
testimony,  that  God  is  a  perfected 
man  thereby  is  inspired,  to  fashion 
his  life,  his  being,  like  unto  that  of 
his  Father.  That  great  manifesta- 
tion has  taught  us  the  truth  about 
our  Father,  and  has  thus  pointed 
the  way  to  our  perfection. 

The  very  fact  that  we  are  in  this 
building,  assembled  here  upon  the 
tops  of  the  mountains,  organized 


ELDER  HENRY  H.  BLOOD. 


127 


and  established  here,  is  proof  of  the 
fulfilment  of  another  great  predic- 
tion that  is  recorded  in  the  book  of 
Isaiah.  The  fact  that  we  have  been 
gathered  from  every  nation  under 
heaven  and  brought  here,  that  we 
have  been  taught  the  ways  of  the 
Lord,  to  walk  in  his  paths,  are  all 
in  fulfilment  of  predictions  that 
have  been  made. 

We  did  not  come  here  to  gain 
ease  in  life,  nor  to  amass  wealth. 
We  came  here  for  the  purpose,  and 
so  did  our  parents,  of  learning  the 
ways  of  the  Lord  and  training  our- 
selves in  righteous  living:  and  if 
we  are  failing  in  that  we  are  fail- 
ing in  everything.  It  matters  not 
how  much  we  may  acquire  of  this 
world's  goods,  we  are  failures  in 
the  .eyes  of  God  unless  we  are  living 
according  to  his  commandments. 

Then  there  are  other  predictions 
that  have  been  fulfilled  and  are  be- 
ing fulfilled.  This  condition  of  war 
and  strife  in  the  world  that  exists 
today  has  been  predicted,  and 
the  world  has  been  warned  and 
forewarned  by  the  Lord  of  its  com- 
ing, for  it  is  true  that  "surely  the 
Lord  God  will  do  nothing  but  he 
revealeth  his  secret  unto  his  ser- 
vants the  prophets."  We  have  been 
called  out  of  the  world,  and  the 
world  has  been  warned  that  the  time 
was  coming  when  war  should  be 
poured  out  upon  all  nations,  when 
everybody  that  was  wicked  and 
would  not  repent  should  feel  the 
wrath  of  God  upon  them.  These 
things  are  coming  to  pass  and,  as  I 
said  in  the  commencement,  there 
has  never  been  a  time  since  the 
beginning  of  the  world  when 
so  many  important  predictions  were 
being  fulfilled  except  at  the  time 
when  the  Savior  came  into  the 
world  as  its  Redeemer. 


How  are  we  preparing  ourselves 
for  the  part  we  are  to  take  in  the  re- 
generation that  is  to  come  after 
this  great  war  has  passed  and  has 
scourged  the  people?  I  know  this 
Church  has  a  mission  to  perform, 
and  I  know  that  it  has  been  estab- 
lished for  a  wise  purpose.  The 
Lord  expects  us,  this  people,  to  as- 
sist in  regenerating  the  world  and 
in  re-establishing  conditions  that 
are  better  than  they  have  been 
before.  More  righteousness  must 
be  in  the  world.  Men  and 
women  must  learn  to  acknowl- 
edge God.  They  must  know  him, 
and  they  must  receive  a  testimony 
as  to  his  attributes  and  being  from 
those  who  know.  Here  in  the  val- 
leys of  the  mountains  a  great  peo- 
ple, a  multitude  of  men  and  wom- 
en, can  stand  up  and  testify,  in  all 
soberness  and  solemnity,  that  they 
know  that  God  lives,  that  he  is  not 
an  essence  merely,  not  merely  a 
spirit,  but  that  he  is  a  being  and  a 
personage  of  body  and  spirit  com- 
bined. This  knowledge  will  go  out 
into  the  world,  and  will  spread 
among  the  children  of  men.  There 
will  ultimately  be  established  a 
brotherhood  that  will  give  to  the 
world  an  everlasting  peace. 

I  pray  that  a  testimony  of  the 
truth  and  value  of  the  gospel  may 
be  with  us  all,  that  we  may  be  clean 
and  pure  and  virtuous,  observing 
that  closing  article  of  our  faith  that 
so  beautifully  portrays  what  we 
should  be,  wherein  it  says :  "We 
believe  in  being  honest,  true,  chaste, 
benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in  doing 
good  to  all  men ;  indeed,  we  may 
say  that  we  follow  the  admonition 
of  Paul,  We  believe  all  things,  we 
hope  all  things,  we  have  endured 
many  things,  and  hope  to  be  able  to 
endure  all  things.    If  there  is  any- 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


thing  virtuous,  lovely,  or  of  good 
report,  or  praiseworthy,  we  seek 
after  these  things." 

If  we  could  only  bring-  ourselves 
to  that !  Self-analysis  can  prove  to 
us  whether  we  are  progressing 
along  these  lines.  God  will  be 
pleased  with  our  effort  to  improve 
ourselves ;  and  when  we  have  set 
ourselves  right,  we  can  go  out  and 
teach  these  principles  to  others. 

God  grant  that  the  way  may  be 
opened  for  us  to  promulgate  the 
gospel  of  peace,  the  gospel  of 
brotherly  kindness  and  charity 
throughout  the  earth,  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  united  choirs  and  soloists 
sang,  "Song  of  the  Redeemed,"  solo 
part  by  Dot  W.  Bolto,  and  Don  C. 
Priestly. 

ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON. 

(Assistant  Church  Historian) 

I  shall  endeavor  to  divide  the 
time  that  is  left  with  President 
Kimball  and  I  will  try  to  astonish 
you  by  being  brief. 

First  I  desire  to  read  a  verse 
from  the  prophecy  of  Daniel :  "And 
in  the  days  of  these  kings  shall  the 
God  of  heavea  set  up  a  kingdom 
which  shall  neyer  be  destroyed,  and 
the  kingdom  shall  not  be  left  to 
other  people^  but  it  shall  break  in 
pieces  and  consume  all  these  king- 
doms and  it  shall  stand  forever" 
(Daniel  2:44). 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  many 
years  ago  (in  the  early  days  of  the 
Church),  and  during  his  temporary 
residence  in  the  state  of  Missouri, 
was  arrested  on  a  charge  of  trea- 
son, because  he  alluded  to  the  ful- 
filment of  this  prophecy  of  Daniel 
in  the  coming  forth  of  the  Church 


of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints ;  and,  together  with  other 
men — his  faithful  co-laborers — he 
suffered  several  months  in  prison. 
The  main  accusation  against  the 
prophet  was,  as  I  have  stated,  trea- 
son, but  of  course  it  was  a  trumped- 
up  or  unwarranted  charge. 

The  passage  in  holy  writ  which 
I  have  quoted  is  a  part  of  the  in- 
terpretation given  by  Daniel  the 
Prophet  to  King  Nebuchadnezzar, 
when  that  mighty  monarch  had  a 
vision  of  a  great  image  which  sym- 
bolized certain  great  kingdoms 
which  should  flourish  in  regular 
succession  upon  the  earth,  and  in 
which  interpretation  Nebuchadnez- 
zar himself  was  referred  to  as  the 
head  of  gold,  or  a  world  regent — 
a  "ruler  over  them  all." 

But  the  Lord  became  very  angry 
with  Nebuchadnezzar  because  of 
his  pride  and  arrogance,  and  be- 
cause he  would  not  acknowledge  the 
God  of  heaven  and  earth,  and  as  a 
punishment  God  took  away  the 
king's  reason,  after  which  that  once 
mighty  man  spent  seven  years 
among  the  animals  of  the  fields,  eat- 
ing herbs  and  grass  like  some  of 
the  beasts.  His  grandson  Belshaz- 
zar  attempted  to  mock  the  God  of 
Israel  by  using  the  'holy  vessels 
( that  had  been  taken  from  the  tem- 
ple in  Jerusalem),  in  a  drunken 
feast  with  his  nobles  and  harlots. 
The  Lord  was  so  angry  with  him 
because  of  his  wickedness  that  he 
allowed  the  Medes  and  Persians  to 
break  into  his  capital  city  that  very 
night  and  kill  him,  thus  destroy- 
ing the  great  kingdom  of  Baby- 
lon, and  verifying  the  interpreta- 
tion given  by  Daniel  to  the  inscrip- 
tion on  the  wall :  "God  hath  num- 
bered thy  kingdom  and  finished  it; 
thou  art  weighed  in  the  balance 
and  art  found  wanting;  thy  king- 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON 


129 


dom  is  divided  and  given  to  the 
Medes  and  Persians"  (Daniel  5: 
26-28). 

Another  man  who  in  course  of 
time  aspired  to  become  the  ruler 
over  the  whole  world  was  Alex- 
ander the  Great  who,  after  subdu- 
ing all  the  nations  of  the  earth 
known  to  him,  wept  because  there 
was  nothing  more  to  conquer.  It 
must  be  remefnbered  in  this  con- 
nection that  men  did  not  at  that 
time  know  the  size  of  the  earth; 
it  being  long  before  America  was 
known  to  the  people  of  Europe  and 
Asia,  and  also  long  before  the 
southern  part  of  Africa,  and  many 
of  the  islands  of  the  sea  had  been 
discovered;  but  Alexander  set  him- 
self up  as  the  great  master  of  all, 
the  great  ruler  of  the  whole  world, 
and  took  upon  himself,  like  ihis 
predecessors,  to  deprive  men  of 
their  free  agency  and  to  make  them 
slaves.  But  the  Lord  soon  humbled 
Alexander  and  his  days  in  the  role 
of  an  arrogant  and  proud  ruler 
were  only  of  short  duration. 

Next  we  have  the  Roman  em- 
pire which  endeavored  first  in  a 
political  way  and  later  as  an  ec- 
clesiastical power  to  rule  the  world 
with  an  iron  hand,  and  crush  the 
people  who  would  not  yield  to  the 
dominion  of  Rome ;  but  that  power 
was  also  broken  and  the  aspirations 
of  the  usurpers  of  authority  were 
never  fully  gratified. 

The  great  Napoleon  Bonaparte 
tried  to  conquer  the  world  about  a 
hundred  years  ago.  From  his  indi- 
vidual standpoint  some  of  his  plans 
were  perhaps  intended  for  good. 
He  aspired,  it  seems,  to  be  a  great 
liberator  of  men,  but  he  also  arro- 
gated to  himself  that  which  the 
Lord  has  reserved  for  Christ,  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world  who  is  the 
only  one  who,  according  to  the  di- 


vine plan,  is  destined  ultimately  to 
rule  the  whole  earth;  but  the  rule 
of  Christ  will  be  one  of  righteous- 
ness under  which  the  free  agency 
of  men  will  be  respected. 

I  refer  to  these  matters  in  con- 
nection with  an  important  theme 
which  has  been  dwelt  upon  by  many 
or  the  speakers  at  this  general  con- 
ference of  the  Church,  and  in  ref- 
erence to  our  views  as  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  have  in  the  world  at  the 
present  time  another  man  who  is 
not  mentioned  in  Daniel's  interpre- 
tation of  Nebuchadnezzar's  dream. 
Nevertheless  he  is  following  in  the 
wake  of  Nebuchadnezzar  and  his 
other  predecessors,  who  aspired  to 
power  and  unrighteous  dominion. 
He  also  wants  to  arrogate  to  himi- 
self  that  which  belongs  solely  to  the 
King  of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords, 
and  aspires  to  rule  the  world  ac- 
cording to  his  own  notions  and  be- 
hests ;  but  we  know  that  the  Ger- 
man kaiser  will  not  succeed.  It  is 
only  a  matter  of  time  till  he  will 
go  the  way  of  all  his  predecessors. 

But  as  Latter-day  Saints  we 
know  something  in  regard  to  the 
kingdom  of  God  which  has  been 
set  up  upon  the  earth  in  these  the 
last  days  by  the  God  of  heaven,  in 
fulfilment  of  Daniel's  prophetic  ut- 
terances. The  Church  and  king- 
dom to  which  I  refer  and  to  which 
the  Latter-day  Saints  belong  has 
quite  a  history  already,  and  I  will 
just  mention  at  this  point  to 
Brother  Lesueur,  president  of  the 
Maricopa  stake,  that  the  last  thing 
I  did  at  the  Historian's  office,  be- 
fore this  conference  commenced, 
was  to  write  the  history  of  the  Mar- 
icopa stake  of  Zion,  including  a 
history  of  the  Papago  ward — the 
Indian  ward — which  was  organized 
in  Arizona  many  years  ago.  We 
are  endeavoring  to  write  a  true 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


history  of  the  Church  and  kingdom 
of  God  as  it  has  been  established 
through  the  instrumentality  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Personally 
I  have  not  only  had  the  privilege 
with  many  others  of  my  brethren, 
to  preach  the  gospel  in  many  lands 
and  climes,  but  \  have  also  had  the 
opportunity  of  studying  and  writ- 
ing the  history  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints — the  people  who  stand  alone 
and  separate  in  many  respects  from 
all  others  in  their  day  and  genera- 
tion— the  people  who  are  destined 
to  exercise  a  great  influence  in  the 
world,  but  not  to  rule  with  arro- 
gance and  oppression — a  people 
who  will  be  accepted  by  Christ 
when  he  comes  to  reign  as  the 
King  of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords. 
We  firmly  believe  that  at  some  fu- 
ture day  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  will  become 
known  and  accepted  for  what  it 
really  is,  and  that  millions  of  peo- 
ple shall  not  only  know  the  Prophet 
Joseph  again,  but  shall  also  know 
many  other  faithful  men  who  have 
labored  for  the  .  salvation  and  lib- 
erties of  humanity.  When  that  day 
comes,  the  people  of  the  earth  will 
become  immensely  interested  in  the 
history  of  the  Church  out  of  which 
shall  grow  the  kingdom  of  God. 

For  many  years  some  of  your 
brethren  at  the  Historian's  office 
have  been  busily  engaged  in  im- 
portant historical  labors,  aside  from 
other  duties.  We  have  written  his- 
tories of  every  stake  of  Zion,  and 
of  every  mission  field  throughout 
the  entire  world,  and  it  may  be 
gratifying  to  the  hosts  of  Zion,  in- 
cluding those  who  are  present  here 
today,  when  I  say  that  we  have 
almost  completed  this  task  which 
was  commenced  thirty-one  years 
ago.  We  have  proceeded  so  far 
with   the    histories    of  missions, 


stakes,  wards,  and  conferences  that 
we  now  need  a  more  thorough  co- 
operation with  some  of  those  who 
constitute  the  membership  in  the 
various  stakes  and  missions.  I 
have  already  suggested  on  a  num- 
ber of  occasions  that  a  historian  be 
appointed  in  every  stake  of  Zion 
and  in  every  ward  throughout  the 
Church  to  co-operate  with  the  His- 
torian's office,  in  order  to  make  our 
histories  accurate  and  complete  in 
every  detail. 

We  have  already  prepared  a 
great  deal  of  material  which  we 
expect  in  the  near  future  to  read 
to  the  people,  and  in  order  to  com- 
plete our  labors,  we  expect  before 
long  to  make  a  trip  throughout  the 
stakes  of  Zion  and  read  to  the  old  set- 
tlers and  others  in  the  different 
wards  and  settlements  of  the  Saints 
such  parts  of  the  history  as  per- 
tain to  their  particular  ward  or 
stake ;  and  when  this  is  done  and 
the  local  historians  otherwise  have 
had  an  opportunity  to  assist  us,  we 
hope  to  possess  the  most  complete 
and  accurate  history  that  has  ever 
been  prepared  and  written  about 
any  people  in  the  world — a  true  his- 
tory in  the  fullest  sense.  It  may 
not  be  amiss  to  state  here  that  his- 
torians sometimes  are  the  servants 
of  those  who  will  pay  them  for 
their  labors,  but  the  histories  which 
we  have  prepared  and  are  prepar- 
ing of  stakes,  missions,  and  indi- 
viduals are  written  from  an  im- 
partial standpoint,  as  we  have 
worked  independent  of  any  favors 
on  the  part  of  any  individual,  ex- 
cept that  common  Latter-day  Saint 
hospitality  and  assistance  which 
we  have  met  with  almost  univer- 
sally everywhere  in  our  travels. 

In  the  various  stakes  of  Zion 
there  are  still  alive  many  men  and 
women  who  have  figured  as  faith- 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON 


131 


ful  and  successful  workers  in  the 
Church ;  and  there  are  many  oth- 
ers now  dead  who  from  the  begin- 
ning took  a  most  active  part  in  the 
establishment  of  God's  work  upon 
the  earth.  These  faithful  workers 
in  the  good  cause  should  not  be  for- 
gotten, and  we  are  endeavoring  at 
the  Historian's  office  to  record  cer- 
tain facts  concerning  them  which 
will  cause  their  memory  to  live  for- 
ever. 

Those  of  us  who  are  working 
faithfully  in  the  Church  today  will, 
like  our  predecessors,  grow  old 
and  pass  to  the  great  beyond,  and 
our  children  and  grand  children 
will,  as  time  rolls  on,  include  us 
among  the  founders  of  the  great 
kingdom  which  Daniel  speaks 
about.  I  will  say  here  that  your 
historians  have  been  pursuing  a 
plan  by  which  faithful  men  and 
women  can  be  placed  on  record 
without  being  sold  into  the  hands 
of  strangers  who  come  into  our 
midst  for  the  sole  purpose  of  finan- 
cial gain.  These  strangers  have 
charged  from  twenty-five  to  a  thou- 
sand dollars  or  more  to  write  a  bi- 
ography of  a  man  or  a  woman  who 
has  figured  prominently  among  our 
people,  omitting,  of  course,  those 
who  could  not  raise  the  amount  re- 
quired. It  is  not  necessary  to  sub- 
mit to  this  method  of  having  bi- 
ographies written  because  the  work 
done  at  the  Historian's  office  is  of 
such  a  nature  that  even  the  poor 
are  given  credit  for  what  they  have 
done.  If  a  letter  should  be  re- 
ceived by  any  of  our  leading  men 
emanating  from  the  Historian's  of- 
fice concerning  biographical  mat- 
ters, let  me  assure  you  that  it  is  not 
based  on  selfish  motives,  but  only 
intended  for  the  good  of  the  people, 
and  calls  only  for  proper  co-opera- 


tion on  the  part  of  those  who  are 
entitled  to  credit.  Here  is,  for  in- 
stance Apostle  Charles  C.  Rich, 
whose  grandson  has  addressed 
us  to  day,  and  many  others, 
whose  names  and  deeds  should  not 
be  forgotten,  but  in  order  to  pre- 
serve their  memories  it  is  neces- 
sary that  histories  of  their  lives 
should  be  written.  Think  of  the 
members  of  Zion's  Camp,  the  Utah 
pioneers  of  1847,  the  members  of 
the  "Mormon"  Battalion,  the  mar- 
tyrs of  the  Church,  the  missionaries 
who  have  died  abroad,  etc.  The 
great  majority  of  all  these  would 
be  forgotten  in  a  generation  or  two, 
were  it  not  for  that  which  shall  be 
recorded  about  them  in  history.  By 
co-operation  we  can  perpetuate  the 
memory  of  all  faithful  workers  in 
the  Church,  rich  and  poor  alike,  and 
that  is  what  we  have  aimed  to  ac- 
complish. 

May  God  bless  us  who  are  now 
workers  in  the  Lord's  vineyard,  and 
enable  us  to  be  faithful  and  true, 
even  as  our  fathers  and  mothers 
before  us  have  been  faithful  and 
true ;  and  if  we  can,  Nephi  like,  do 
greater  works  than  our  fathers  have 
done,  it  is  our  privilege  to  do  so, 
because  we  have  better  opportu- 
nities in  many  respects  than  they 
had.  May  God  enable  us  to  be 
what  he  wants  us  to  be  and  remain 
true  and  faithful  to  the  end,  and 
may  we  to  the  very  best  of  our 
ability  do  our  part  to  promote  the 
interest  of  this  great  kingdom 
which  Daniel  speaks  of — a  king- 
dom that  shall  endure  forever !  and 
by  and  bye  will  come  our  turn  to  be 
rewarded  for  our  faithfulness. 

That  God  may  bless  Zion  and  her 
interests  everywhere  is  my  prayer 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy.) 

There  is  only  a  few  minutes  left, 
but  we  will  presume  upon  your  time 
as  we  have  two  duets  that  we  desire 
to  have  sung.  There  isn't  any  part 
of  our  services  more  inspiring  than 
the  singing  and  at  no  time  have  I 
heard  anything  better  than  the 
music  and  singing  during  these  ser- 
vices. 

"Stay  Thou  with  Me"  was  ren- 
dered as  a  duet  by  Myrtle  W.  Doelle 
and  Joseph  Kjar,  preceded  by  the 
following  remarks : 

PROFESSOR  EVAN  STEPHENS. 

I  want  to  say  a  word  in  explana- 
tion of  this  duet.  I  was  requested 
to  put  this  piece  on,  through  some 
of  the  brethren  hearing  it  in  one  of 
our  wards,  last  Sunday  night.  I 
want  to  say  a  word  about  it  for  fear 
you  will  misunderstand  the  object 
of  it.  You  might  take  it  to  be  a  sec- 
ular, or  what  is  sometimes  termed  a 
"love"  duet.  The  idea  is  this :  I 
have  been  asked  thousands  of  times, 
probably,  by  different  people  who 
have  good  voices  and  musical  abil- 
ity: "Brother  Stephens,  I  have  a 
gifted  son,  a  gifted  daughter,  would 
you  advise  me  to  send  them  abroad 
to  study?"  "Would  you  advise  me 
to  take  or  send  them  away  from 
home  for  study?"  This  piece  has 
been  written  for  an  answer  to  that 
question.  My  answer  is,  "No,"  and 
this  song,  "Stay.  Thou  with  Me,"  is 
partly  the  answer.  We  have  de- 
veloped some  splendid  talent  by 
sending  it  away,  but  as  a  rule,  I 
think  it  is  safe  to  say,  if  our  young 
people  have  ties  to  cling  to,  in  nine 
cases  out  of  ten,  it  is  better  for 
them  to  "Stay  thou  with  me :  from 


my  side  may  it  not  lure  thee."  The 
subject  in  this  duet  is  in  that  way 
really  a  reply.  Do  not  go  from 
home ;  and  so  "Brother  Stephens 
has  not  put  on  some  'love'  duets  in 
conference."  This  one  is  a  sermon 
in  itself. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

This  is  the  first  time  in  twenty- 
five  years  of  missionary  service  that 
I  have  been  honored  to  preside  at  a 
public  meeting  connected  with  the 
Semi-annual  Conference  of  the 
Church,  and  I  would  like  to  preside 
with  a  good  deal  of  dignity,  and 
have  tried  to  do  ,so. 

I  am  a  little  nervous  when  given 
an  opportunity  to  speak,  knowing 
that  what  I  say  will  be  taken  down 
by  a  stenographer,  and  when  my 
discourse  is  written  in  cold  type,  it 
/loesn't  read  well  or  sound  good  to 
me,  as  it  has  but  little  spirit,  and  no 
feeling  in  it.  I  am  now  speaking 
of  my  discourses. 

My  most  fervent  desire  is  to 
speak  of  what  I  know  and  how  I 
feel,  but  it's  a  great  fight  to  be  able 
to  express  your  real  feelings.  I  am 
looking  ahead,  and  worrying  about 
some  things  that  are  useless  and  a 
waste  of  energy.  At  times  I  am 
exercised  about  death  and  the  here- 
after, but  as  Charles  Frohman 
phrased  it,  under  spiritual  enthusi- 
asm, "Why  fear  death?  it  is  the 
mo,st  beautiful  adventure  of  life." 
I  would  like  to  die,  if  I  can,  with- 
out fear,  in  fact,  die  like  a  Roman. 

My  purpose  is  not  to  discourse  on 
wonderful  things,  that  I  have 
achieved  and  experienced,  but  my 
wish  and  desire  is  to  reach  the 
hearts  of  men.  I  only  wish  I  was 
better  understood  ;  but  unless  men 
are  of  my  temperament   and  see 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 


133 


things  as  I  see  them,  with  a  moving 
picture  mind,  they  can  not  compre- 
hend things  in  the  way  I  do. 

I  may  not  .stand  blameless  before 
God  at  the  last  day,  but  I  am  not 
afraid  to  meet  my  God  and  be 
judged  by  the  Lord  as  to  my  desires, 
efforts  and  works.  I  understand  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  well  enough 
to  know  that  God  is  perfect  and 
'deals  out  justice  and  mercy  to  his 
children ;  Jesus  Christ  is  the  door 
to  the  ,sheep-fold,  and  with  all  my 
many  imperfections  and  weak- 
nesses, if  I  am  invited  by  the  Mas- 
ter to  come  in  at  the  door,  all  men 
who  try  to  block  my  way  will  get 
run  over  and  pushed  aside. 

I  .do  not  trust  in  man,  but  I  honor 
and  respect  men  who  hold  the 
Priesthood  of  God.  I  haven't  given 
my  life  for  this  work,  but  have 
shown  forth  a  willingness  to  place 
the  little  I  have  on  the  altar.  I 
haven't  been  called,  nor  asked  to  do 
anything,  that  I  have  not  responded. 
No  appointment  has  been  given  me 
that  I  have  not  filled,  in  my  way, 
and  to  the  best  of  my  ability. 

I  can  do  anything  I  am  set  apart 
to  do,  if  I  have  the  .spirit  of  my 
appointment  and  am  humble  and 
prayerful. 

I  know  the  sick  are  healed 
through  the  laying  on  of  hands,  as 
well  as  any  man  in  all  Israel,  as  I 
have  witnessed  the  healing  of  the 
sick.  I  know  we  have  the  spirit  of 
prophecy,  for  I  have  tried  it  out, 
and  it  works  all  right,  if  you  get  the 
spirit  of  prophecy.  This  work  is 
true.  This  is  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  but 
when  you  so'  testify  it  ought  to  be 
Hone  bv  the  spirit  of  prophecy  and 
revelation. 

As  far  as  the  Government  of  the 
United  States  is  concerned,  I  feel 


somewhat  like  General  Pershing  did 
when  he  offered  to  the  Allied  na- 
tions the  army  of  the  United  States. 
We  parents  give  to  our  country  our 
sons  just  as  gladly  and  freely  to 
enter  Into  this  great  struggle  for 
justice  and  liberty  for  humanity. 

If  you  can  grasp  my  meaning  you 
will  know  exactly  how  I  feel  to- 
wards the  Church  and  the  Priest- 
hood. The  Lord  knows  I  love  the 
Church,  her  people,  and  my  Coun- 
try, and.  I  have  no  fear  that  the 
Lord  cannot  overrule  and  overturn 
nations  and  people,  until  they  shall 
repent  and  serve  him.  The  Lord 
has  taken  care  of  me,  and  I  have 
learned  to  trust  him,  as  he  is  a  good 
Master,  and  he  is  full  of  mercy, 
justice,  kindness  and  love. 

I  feel  to  say,  "God  save  the  peo- 
ple, not  kings,  but  the  people."  If  I 
had  written  that  poetry,  I  would 
have  .said,  "God  save  the  people" — 

and  to    with  the  kings,  but  as 

I  didn't  write  it,  will  refrain  from 
saying  it. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  this  work  is 
true,  for  I  have  worked  and  labored 
in  it  until  I  know  of  its  truth:  I 
am  now  going  to  ask  you  a  few 
questions :  "Do  you  know  of  any- 
thing in  all  this  beautiful  world  that 
is  more  important  than  human 
life?"  You  don't,  do  you?  I  will 
ask  the  same  question  in  another 
way :  "Do  you  know  of  anything 
in  all  this  great  universe  that  is 
dearer  to  the  Father  than  a  human 
soul?"  You  don't,  do  you?  Of 
course,  you  don't,  as  the  Lord  said 
in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
"And  if  it  so  be  that  you  should 
labor  all  your  days  in  crying  re- 
pentance unto  this  people,  and  bring 
save  it  be  one  soul  unto  me,  how 
great  will  be  your  joy  with  him  in 
the  kingdom  of  my  Father." 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


To  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of 
God  is  the  greatest  of  all  the  gifts 
of  God ;  for  there  is  no  gift  greater 
than  the  gift  of  salvation.  Then 
"soul  hunting"  is  of  far  greater  im- 
portance than  spending  one's  life  in 
money  seeking,  and  the  accumula- 
tion of  wealth.  I  can  see  that  the 
things  of  God  must  be  made  more 
interesting  than  the  things  of  the 
world ;  that  the  things  of  God 
must  be  better  advertised  than  the 
material  things  of  the  world. 

I  almost  forgot  the  one  thing  I 
desired  to  say,  and  that  is :  God 
bless  the  choir,  the  .singers  and  mu- 
sicians. I  know  as  well  as  I  know 
anything  that  the  Lord  will  bless 
Brother  Evan  Stephens ;  and  as  a 
servant  of  the  Lord,  I  promise  him 
he  shall  have  the  Holy  Spirit  to 
comfort  and  console  him,  and  he 
shall  not  be  lonely  or  desolate 
among  this  people.  God  bless  all 
these  sweet  singers  he  is  training. 
Little  do  you  people  know  what  it 
costs  in  time,  effort,  and  study,  to 
acquire  the  art  to  sing;  if  we  as  a 
people  put  forth  a  tithe  of  the 
effort  they  do  to  sing,  in  studying 
the  word  of  God,  we  would  be  the 
most  intelligent  people  in  all  the 
world.   The  Lord  bless  you.  Amen. 

After  .singing,  by  the  combined 
choirs,  "Grant  us  peace,"  President 
Rey  L.  Pratt  pronounced  the  bene- 
diction. 


SECOND  MEETING 
OUT-DOORS. 

A  second  outdoor  meeting  was 
held  in  front  of  the  Bureau  of  In- 
formation Building,  at  2  p.  m., 
Elder  Charles  H.  Hart,  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy,  presiding. 


The  music  and  singing  were  fur- 
nished by  the  Ensign  Male  Chorus. 

The  chorus  and  congregation 
sang:  "Let  Zion  in  her  beauty 
rise. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Wm. 
E.  Evans. 

The  chorus  and  congregation 
sang:  "Lo,  the  Gentile  chain  is 
broken." 

ELDER  LEWIS  ANDERSON. 

(President  of  South  Sanpete  Stake  of 
Zion.) 

My  dear  brethren,  sisters,  and 
friends,  I  do  not  know  whether  I 
shall  be  able  to  make  you  hear  what 
I  may  have  to  say  to  this  vast  con- 
gregation gathered  upon  these 
grounds.  I  am  very  grateful  to  my 
heavenly  Father  for  the  blessings 
that  we  enjoy  through  his  Holy 
Spirit,  poured  out  in  great  abund- 
ance upon  the  Saints  who  have  been 
gathered  in  this  Conference.  The 
blessings  of  our  heavenly  Father 
have  come  to  the  people  in  these 
valleys  of  the  mountains.  His  gra- 
cious care  has  been  over  them. 
Prosperity  has  attended  the  efforts 
put  forth  by  the  people  who  have 
gathered  from  every  land  and  clime, 
and  God  has  been  merciful  unto 
them.  He  has  granted  unto  them 
health  and  strength,  the  comforts 
of  life. 

My  reflections  have  gone  out  to 
the  time  when  I  first  saw  this  spot, 
in  1859.  The  first  worship  that  I 
attended  was  in  a  little  building  that 
was  located  here  in  the  southwest 
corner  of  this  block,  as  I  remember 
it.  There  were  none  of  these  ele- 
gant buildings  erected  at  that  time 
— the  holy  temple  here,  the  taber- 
nacle, and  these  other  magnificent 
buildings  of  worship  erected  for  the 


ELDER  LEWIS  ANDERSON. 


135 


good  and  blessing  of  the  Saints  and 
the  preaching  of  the  gospel.  All 
these  have  come  since  that  day.  I 
remember  vividly  the  instructions 
given  by  the  late  President  Brigham 
Young  upon  several  occasions,  not 
only  in  the  services  held  in  the 
tabernacle,  but  I  also  remember 
vividly  the  instructions  given  by 
him  on  the  tours  that  he  made  of 
the  various  settlements  of  the  Saints 
in- the  southern  part  of  the  country, 
where  I  was  reared. 

I  remember  the  counsel  and  in- 
structions of  a  practical  nature 
given  unto  the  gathered  people.  I 
remember  distinctly  the  counsel  in 
relation  to  being  self-sustaining, 
frugal,  and  building  up  homes  and 
cities  in  this  land  of  Zion.  Those 
practical  words  of  instruction  have 
been  followed  up,  as  we  heard,  too, 
in  the  opening  session  of  the  Con- 
ference from  our  beloved  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith. 

I  believe  in  a  practical  religion. 
I  believe  in  that  which  shall  build 
up,  advance,  comfort  and  bless  man 
upon  the  earth.  I  believe  in  that 
which  shall  bring  about  the  preach- 
ing: of  the  gospel  of  the  Son  of  God, 
both  at  home  and  abroad,  and  aid 
this  great  work  that  God  has  estab- 
lished in  these  the  latter  days.  I  am 
thankful  for  the  work  that  has  been 
accomplished  in  the  building  of 
temples  in  our  midst,  in  which  the 
gospel  of  salvation  can  reach  the 
living,  and  the  dead  as  well,  for  the 
gospel  is  not  all  to  the  living,  it  is 
also  to  the  dead.  I  believe  in  the 
literal  scriptural  sayings  of  our 
Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  and 
his  apostles.  I  believe  they  are  lit- 
erally true,  and  that  our  Master, 
when  he  went  into  the  spirit  world, 
preached  the  gospel  to  those  who 
had  gone  before,  who  were  some- 


time disobedient  in  the  days  of 
Noah  when  the  ark  was  preparing. 
I  believe  in  the  mission  of  the  elders 
of  Israel  who  have  gone  before.  I 
believe  that  the  gospel  is  to  be 
preached  on  the  other  side  as  well 
as  on  this  side.  I  also  believe  that 
it  is  the  duty  of  Latter-day  Saint 
elders  to  preach  the  gospel  in  every 
land,  clime,  to  every  people — for  I 
believe  that  the  Lord  has  said  that 
when  this  mission  shall  be  finished 
that  the  end  will  come.  The  testi- 
mony of  the  message  of  life  and 
salvation  must  go  to  all  people  of 
the  earth,  before  the  consummation 
of  that  which  has  been  spoken  by 
the  prophets  of  the  Lord. 

The  gospel  means  a  great  deal  to 
us,  not  only  in  the  word  but  in  the 
living  of  it.  I  believe  it  is  right  to 
have  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
and  in  his  mission  and  being.  I 
testify  to  you  of  this  knowledge, 
and  I  am  grateful  for  the  testimony 
T  have  that  God  lives,  and  that 
Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son.  I  am  thank- 
ful, my  brethren  and  s:sters,  for  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  wherein  re- 
pentance is  brought  to  those  who 
need  repentance ;  and  I  am  grateful 
for  the  blessingfs  of  baptism  for  the 
remission  of  sins,  the  laying  on  of 
hands  for  the  reception  of  the  Holv 
Ghost.  These  are  principles  of  sal- 
vation, and  no  one,  according  to  the 
holy  scriptures,  can  enter  into  the 
kingdom  of  God  without  these  or- 
dinances being  administered  unto 
them.  This  is  the  word  of  the 
Lord,  and  these  principles  are  plain 
scripture.  Thev  are  set  forth  for 
our  guidance.  But  these  are  not  all 
that  Latter-day  Saints  need  to  ob- 
serve. They  are  the  ordinances 
that  are  reauired.  Then  there  is 
the  living-  of  the  gospel  of  the  Son 
of  God,  there  is  the  putting  into 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


practice  the  teachings  which  he 
gave  unto  men  while  he  was  upon 
the  earth.  These  sometimes  are 
difficult  for  us  to  observe  as  we 
ought  to.  If  we  did  so,  we  would 
be  the  best  people  upon  the  earth. 
Notwithstanding-,  I  say,  that  we 
tvould  be  the  best,  we  are  the  best 
people  upon  the  earth,  inasmuch  as 
we  observe  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord.  Ours  is  a  practical  re- 
ligion, it  is  an  every-day  religion — 
with  us  it  is  not  simply  going  to  the 
house  of  worship  upon  the  Sabbath 
day.  That  is  required  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  a  great  many  of 
them  forget  this  great  blessing  that 
they  enjoy  of  observing  the  Sabbath 
day  and  assembling  in  the  worship 
of  our  heavenly  Father.  I  believe 
that  wherein  we  do  not  observe  the 
day  set  apart  for  the  worship  of 
him,  we  become  spiritually  sick,  and 
become  dead  branches,  as  it  were ; 
and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  will 
withdraw  from  us,  inasmuch  as  we 
do  not  observe  this  commandment 
of  the  Lord. 

I  have  had  a  great  deal  of  pleas- 
ure, my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the 
work  of  the  salvation  for  the  dead. 
I  have  had  the  honor  of  associating 
with  my  brethren  wfto  have  pre- 
sided over  the  Manti  temple  from 
the  beginning,  in  1888 — President 
Daniel  H.  Wells  and  President  An- 
thon  H.  Lund,  President  John  D. 
McAllister,  President  John  B. 
Maiben,  and  others  who  have  been 
there.  I  had  great  pleasure  in  asso- 
ciating with  and  partaking  of  the 
spirit  with  which  they  were  imbued. 
I  remember  very  vividly  the  in- 
structions of  our  beloved  President 
Daniel  H.  Wells,  who  was  the  first 
president  of  that  temple.  I  remem- 
ber what  he  said  relating  to  the 
preaching  of  the   Prophet  Joseph 


Smith  in  the  city  of  Nauvoo,  and  of 
his  own  conversion  into  the  Church 
of  Christ.  It  will  be  remembered 
that  at  that  time  he  was  not  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  but  a  staunch 
friend  of  the  people  of  God  who 
had  assembled  there.  And  he  said 
upon  one  occasion  that  there  was 
nothing  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  that  so  appealed  to  him  as 
the  principle  of  the  redemption  of 
the  dead,  brought  forth  by  the  reve- 
lations of  God  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph.  He  had,  he  said,  gone  to 
many  denominations.  His  father 
had  not  been  a  member  of  any 
church.  His  anxious  question  was 
as  to  his  father.  Where  would  he 
be?  Of  course,  he  was  answered 
that  there  was  no  redemption  for 
him ;  he  was  entirely  lost — 'his 
father  and  mother  were  lost,  and 
they  would  not  associate  together! 
That  was  the  word  that  he  received. 
But  the  Prophet  said  that  we  should 
be  joined  together  with  tho.se  of  our 
kindred  who  had  gone  before ;  that 
there  was  salvation  for  those  who 
had  gone  behind  the  veil,  for  the 
dead ;  and  the  gospel  was  being 
preached  to  them  the  same  as  to  the 
living.  We  have  an  abundance  of 
scripture  relating  to  that  matter, 
which  gave  him  comfort  and  joy, 
and  which  upheld  him,  and  he  said, 
"Where  my  father  is  and  my 
mother,  there  is  where  I  desire  to 
be,  and  with  my  kindred." 

That  is  the  doctrine  of  Christ, 
who  gave  it.  His  apostles  who  fol- 
lowed him,  also  preached  it. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice 
in  the  blessings  of  our  Father  unto 
us  as  his  people;  and  in  the  gifts 
and  blessings  that  we  enjoy  in  this 
land.  I  am  thankful  for  the  free- 
dom that  exists  here,  the  blessings 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


137 


that  have  been  poured  out  upon  this 
land  of  Zion,  land  of  liberty;  and  I 
trust  that  we  will  be  found  worthy, 
and  in  the  ranks  of  those  who  shall 
defend  the  principles  of  right  and 
liberty  all  the  days  of  our  lives.  It 
has  been  said  in  times  past  that  as 
a  people  we  have  not  been  loyal ; 
we  have  been  falsely  charged  with 
not  being  a  loyal  people  to  our 
Government.  I  do  not  know  of 
anything  that  speaks  louder  than 
the  works  that  have  been  and  are 
being  done  by  the  Latter-day  Saints 
today  in  offering  our  sons  and  our 
daughters  to  go  to  uphold  and  sus- 
tain the  principles  of  right  and  lib- 
erty ;  and  in  contributing  of  sub- 
stance freely  for  the  cause  that  we 
believe  to  be  right,  and  for  the  up- 
holding and  sustaining  of  the  great 
Constitution  of  our  land.  By  the 
blessings  of  God,  no  king  shall  rule 
upon  this  land  !  God  has  decreed  it, 
and  I  know  that  his  words  will  not 
fail.  God  bless  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  is  my  prayer,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 

(President    of    Northwestern  States 
Mission.) 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, in  this  opportunity  to  bear 
testimony  to  you  who  have  come 
here  to  receive  the  word  of  the 
Lord.  The  opportunity  and  priv- 
ilege which  is  afforded  us  to  as- 
semble as  members  of  the  Church, 
to  receive  instructions  at  these  con- 
ferences, will  at  the  end  of  the  or- 
dinary life  prove  a  liberal  educa- 
tion in  the  vital  things  of  life.  And 
I  do  most  sincerely  hope  that  we 
shall  not  only  come  here  to  listen, 
but  to  believe  that  which  we  hear, 
and  that   we    shall    adopt  it  into 


practice  in  our  lives.  I  have  ob- 
served that  it  is  easy  to  listen,  and 
that  it  is  difficult  to  practice  that 
which  we  know  we  ought  to  do.  I 
have  occasion  to  know  that  many 
times  we  have  to  be  reminded  and 
told  over  and  over  again  the  things 
we  ought  to  do  and  we  know  we 
ought  to  do  them,  but  we  do  not 
have  the  courage  to  do  them.  I 
remember  a  physician  advising  a 
certain  man  that  if  he  did  not  quit 
the  use  of  liquor,  he  was  going  to 
suffer  a  premature  death.  The  man 
who  was  then  advised  ceased  the 
use  of  liquor;  but  the  physician 
who  had  administered  the  admoni- 
tion died  a  drunkard  himself,  not- 
withstanding he  knew  he  was  doing 
wrong.  What  we  lack  is  the  moral 
courage  to  carry  into  execution  our 
convictions. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel 
that  many  of  us  Latter-day  Saints 
have  treated  very  lightly  the  in- 
structions and  the  counsel  that  have 
been  given  to  us  by  the  leaders  of 
this  Church,  we  have  not  profited 
by  their  advice,  and  we  will  reap 
only  that  which  we  have  sown.  We 
shall  discover  that  we  will  not  es- 
cape the  chastening  hand  of  God, 
after  having  been  taught  and  ad- 
monished, and  we  shall  find  God 
will  not  be  mocked. 

I  believe  that  this  is  the  day  of 
judgment.  I  believe  that  we  are 
approaching  a  time  when  men  and 
women  cannot  mock  God  and  live 
in  open  defiance  of  his  law  without 
soon  coming  to  answer  for  the  re- 
sponsibility that  rests  upon  us  to 
act  as  we  please.  I  believe,  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  that  we  live  in  the 
most  important  age  the  world  has 
ever  seen,  a  time  foreseen  by  the 
prophets  of  old  whose  minds  were 
lit  up  by  inspiration   when  they 


138 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


spoke  and  talked  of  our  day.  There 
is  not  a  man  or  boy  here  with  whom 
Abraham  would  not  have  ex- 
changed places.  There  is  not 
a  man  that  any  of  the  worthy 
prophets  of  God  would  not  rather 
have  changed  places  with  and  lived 
in  this  day  of  wonderful  oppor- 
tunity, this  day  of  the  consummation 
of  God's  great  purposes  in  the 
earth.  They  would  rather  have 
been  where  you  are  than  where  they 
were. 

I  think  sometimes  we  live  too 
close  to  wonderful  things  to  reaHy 
realize  them.  I  often  have  the  op- 
portunity of  standing  on  Portland 
Heights,  west  of  the  city  of  Port- 
land, and  looking  sixty  miles  east. 
On  a  beautiful,  clear  day,  I  can  see 
rising  majestic  above  the  Cascade 
range  of  mountains,  Mt.  Hood, 
eternally  crowned  with  snow,  and 
its  very  base  is  the  summit  of  the 
mountains — rising  11,0:00  feet  to  a 
distance  approaching  the  storms' 
home  ;  and  I  always  go  away  feel- 
ing more  inspired.  My  backbone 
is  a  little  stiffer,  and  I  feel  a  little 
more  that  spirit  of  worship  and 
adoration  of  God ;  for  not  only  do 
the  heavens  declare  the  glory  of 
God,  but  his  works  around  and 
about  us,  if  we  will  only  open  our 
eves,  preach  sermons  to  us.  And  'I 
always  wanted  to  go  up  to  the 
mountain.  I  had  the  opportunity 
a  few  years  ago,  and  when  I 
reached  the  base  of  the  mountain, 
the  6,000  foot  elevation,  I  thought 
I  would  be  filled  by  the  wonder  of 
that  scene — but  instead,  I  was  up 
against  the  face  of  a  great  cliff  that 
rose  thousands  of  feet  above  me, 
and  I  could  only  see  about  a  hun- 
dredth part  of  the  mountain,  and  I 
was  disappointed;  but  as  I  passed 
through   that    experience  I  said. 


"How  that  is  like  life :  we  are  often 
too  close  to  the  big  and  the  great 
and  the  grand  things  to  really  real- 
ize and  understand  them.  We  have 
to  get  a  little  further  away  to  get 
a  proper  view  and  understanding.  I 
understood  then  why  it  was  that  he 
who  stands  out  as  the  most  illus- 
trious character  of  all  the  ages, 
who  is  the  Summit  of  all  peaks, 
Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  was 
not  understood  by  his  own  genera- 
tion. They  were  too  close  to  him 
to  see  him.  You  have  to  get  nun- 
dreads  of  years  away  before  his 
greatness,  his  majesty,  and  his 
power  can  be  seen  and  compre- 
hended by  the  multitude.  And  I 
understood,  too,  how  it  is  that  the 
rrophets  have  not  been  without 
honor,  except  in  their  own  country 
and  in  their  own  time.  It  has  taken 
one  or  two  generations  to  elapse 
before  men  began  to  see  the  worth 
and  the  merit  of  those  who  have 
been  the  world's  greatest  benefac- 
tors. And  so  it  has  been  with 
"  Mormonism,"  and  with  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  He  was 
too  close  to  the  men  and  the  women 
of  his  own  time.  They  felt  with 
him  as  they  did  with  Jesus.  Wasn't 
Jesus  the  carpenter's  son?  Didn't 
they  know  his  father  and  his  broth- 
ers? Just  so  men  thought  that  they 
knew  all  about  Joseph  Smith,  and 
that  he  did  not  have  a  message  of 
any  particular  consequence  to  them  ! 
And  so  they  chose  to  turn  their 
faces  away  from  him.  But  as  we 
recede  from  his  day,  and  contem- 
plate the  man  and  his  message,  we 
discover  that  he  begins  to  rise  to 
his  own  place  and  position,  for  he 
will  stand  as  one  of  the  pinnacles 
in  the  midst  of  the  children  of 
men ;  and  that  which  he  did,  men 
shall  yet  come  to  acknowledge  was 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


139 


given  of  God,  for  the  salvation  not 
only  of  a  few  Latter-day  Saints, 
but  of  the  whole  world.  When  the 
Lord  has  a  message  to  give,  he  does 
not  ask  us,  "Whom  would  you  like 
me  to  speak  through?"  It  is  his 
business  and  right,  to  take  a  shep- 
herd, a  tax  collector,  or  if  he 
chooses  a  farmer's  boy,  like  Joseph 
Smith.   That  is  his  business. 

And  the  big  thing  is  not  after  all 
the  man  through  whom  the  mes- 
sage comes,  but  the  message  itself. 
Joseph's  was  a  message  of  repent- 
ance to  this  generation.  The  Lord 
Almighty  is  deeply  concerned  over 
the  men  and  the  women  of  our  own 
time.  He  has  been  pleading  with 
us  as  Latter-day  Saints  to  do  the 
work  he  wants  us  to  do ;  but  we 
have  sometimes  been  very  stubborn 
and  indifferent  to  the  message,  and 
we  have  had  to  be  forced,  by  cir- 
cumstances that  surrounded  us,  to 
do  the  things  the  Lord  wanted  us 
to  do,  because  we  were  unwilling 
otherwise.  But  he  has  in  his  mercy 
N  hedged  up  the  way  and  provided 
the  means  by  which  we  would  move 
where  he  wants  us  to,  and  do  the 
things  he  wants  us  to  do. 

And  as  he  has  been  dealing  with 
us,  so  is  he  dealing  with  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth.  And  so  I  have 
this  testimony — that  God  loves  the 
whole  world,  and  will  save  all  men 
if  they  would  repent — and  yet  not 
one  single  soul  will  escape  the  con- 
sequence of  wrong  doing,  except  he 
repent.  I  say  that  this  is  a  day 
of  judgment ;  and  I  want  to  testify 
to  you  that  the  judgments  of  Al- 
mighty God  are  only  beginning, 
and  the  war  will  go  on,  the  judg- 
ments of  God  will  go  on  until  his 
purposes  shall  be  accomplished  in 
the  earth,  which  is  the  humiliation, 


and  repentance  of  the  children  of 
men. 

I  want  to  testify  that  what  Elder 
Whitney  said  this  morning  with 
reference  to  God  compelling  men  to 
obedience,  is  true ;  this  has  been 
witnessed  many  times  in  this  gen- 
eration. 

I  recall  a  circumstance  that  hap- 
pened some  six  weeks  ago  in  Brit- 
ish Columbia,  one  of  the  confer- 
ences of  our  mission.  A  certain 
man  had  been  approached  to  obtain 
permission  to  have  his  daughter 
baptized.  The  wife  and  some  of 
the  children  belonged  to  the 
Church.  He  first  gave  it  and  then 
rejected  the  elders  and  withdrew 
his  permission.  They  labored  with 
him  two  or  three  nights  in  succes- 
sion trying  to  persuade  him  not 
only  to  give  permission  for  the 
daughter  to  be  baptized,  but  to  be 
baptized  himself ;  and  at  last  he  be- 
came bitter,  abused  them,  refused 
to  have  anything  more  to  do  with 
them,  and  said  he  was  sorry  he 
ever  met  the  "Mormon"  elders. 
When  they  left  him  they  told  him 
that  they  had  borne  witness  and  tes- 
timony to  him  of  the  truth,  that  he 
knew  enough  to  condemn  him,  that 
they  would  be  witnesses  against 
him  in  the  day  of  judgment,  and 
that  the  Lord  would  deal  with  him. 
He  simply  laughed  and  said,  "I  am 
not  afraid  of  the  consequences, 
don't  you  worry  at  all  about  the 
judgment."  The  next  night  about 
9  o'clock  he  was  stricken  with  a 
malady  that  the  physicians  who 
were  called  could  not  diagnose,  only 
that  he  was  dying,  that  he  was 
filled  with  pain  from  head  to  foot 
and  he  writhed  in  agony,  and  re- 
fused to  respond  to  the  treatment 
that  was  administered.  He  suffered 
for  hours,  until  his  proud,  haughty 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


spirit  was  broken.  And  then  he 
turned  to  his  wife  and  said,  "You 
g"o  find  those  'Mormon'  elders."  It 
was  one  o'clock  in  the  morning 
when  the  brethren  were  brought  to 
his  bedside;  he  began  to  cry  when 
they  came  in,  and  said,  "I  have 
been  in  hell  this  night.  I  have  been 
taken  at  my  own  word,  and  God 
has  punished  me."  And  he  humbly 
begged  their  forgiveness  and  said, 
"I  will  not  only  give  consent  for  my 
daughter  to  be  baptized,  but  I  will 
be  baptized  myself."  They  laid 
their  hands  upon  him  and  blessed 
him,  and  his  malady  left  him.  He 
arose  the  next  day,  and  with  his 
daughter  was  baptized.  I  saw  him 
three  days  later,  and  heard  his  tes- 
timony, and  he  said :  "As  Paul 
was  stricken  on  the  road  to  Damas- 
cus, so  have  I  been  stricken,  and  I 
am  now  willing  to  do  what  the 
Lord  wants  me  to  do." 

I  want  to  say  that  while  the  Lord 
may  be  swift  in  some  instances  and 
slow  in  others,  just  as  sure  as  we 
live,  he  will  not  be  mocked ;  and  we 
shall  come  to  judgment.  We  may 
hide  our  sins,  we  may  try  to  cover 
them  up,  but  every  one  of  us  shall 
come  face  to  face  with  the  judg- 
ment, sooner  or  later.  O,  may  the 
Lord  be  merciful  to  us  and  chastise 
us  before  we  have  to  go  too  far. 

I  spoke  yesterday  concerning  the 
war  and  its  effect  as  I  witnessed  it 
in  some  of  our  Canadian  territory, 
where  we  have  seen  the  spirit  of  re- 
pentance coming  over  the  people, 
and  men  began  to  enquire  after  the 
gospel.  When  our  elders  came  to 
the  homes  of  the  people  where  the 
son  or  the  father  had  been  taken — 
for  there  was  a  terrible  loss  of  life 
in  the  first  companies  of  Canadian 
soldiers  who  went  to  Europe,  and 
there  was  scarcely  a  block  where 


there  was  not  somebody  weeping 
for  the  loss  of  their  dead — the  thing 
they  wanted  to  talk  about  was  the 
•dead  loved  one.  The  sweet  comfort 
of  salvation  for  the  dead,  as  re- 
vealed through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  has  brought  consolation  to 
many  thousands  of  people ;  and 
many  began  to  pray  to  God  who 
never  prayed  before.  When  a  man 
begins  to  pray,  he  begins  to  repent 
and  turn  from  the  wicked  things 
which  he  has  been  in  the  habit  of 
f'oing.  A  spirit  like  this  took  pos- 
session of  the  people  until  we  had 
an  increase  in  baptisms  of  ten 
times  as  many  as  in  any  preceding 
year.  I  am  expecting  to  see  that 
same  thing  start  all  over  this  and 
other  lands. 

We  received  the  word  of  God 
not  only  for  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
but  for  the  whole  world,  to  avoid 
the  use  of  intoxicating  drinks,  to 
observe  a  more  strict  diet  in  the 
use  of  meat,  not  to  use  tea  and 
coffee ;  and  only  the  Latter-day 
Saints  have  believed  this  doctrine. 
The  result  of  obeying  it  has  been 
that  when  our  boys  go  to  the  can- 
tonments, their  physical  examina- 
tion stands  higher  than  any  other 
class  of  men.  When  some  of  our 
boys  from  one  of  our  "Mormon" 
settlements  in  Idaho  recently  passed 
their  examinations,  the  physician 
said,  "Where  did  you  boys  come 
from?"  they  told  him.  "Well," 
said  he,  "I  have  never  examined  as 
clean  a  bunch  of  men  in  my  life." 
There  were  not  one  among  them 
that  was  not  physically  sound  and 
perfectly  clean. 

A  major  in  the  army,  a  "Mor- 
mon" boy,  said  to  me:  "I  never 
appreciated  the  teachings  of  my 
father  and  mother  until  I  came  out 
here.    I  did  not  pay  much  atten- 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


141 


tion  to  the  Church,  but  when  I  came 
here  and  found  the  truths  I  had 
been  taught  were  the  very  things 
now  demanded  of  me  by  the  officers 
of  the  army,  I  have  a  greater  re- 
spect for  my  Church  and  parentage 
than  I  have  ever  experienced  be- 
fore. 

One  of  the  greatest  commercial 
advertisers,  and  organizers  of  com- 
mercial bodies,  spoke  in  our  chapel 
at  Portland  a  few  years  ago,  he  had 
experience  not  only  among  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  but  all  over  the 
world.  He  turned  to  a  company  of 
"Mormon"  missionaries,  and  said, 
"If  you  want  to  win  the  laurels  and 
the  plaudits  of  the  world  in  the  fu- 
ture, you  just  stay  by  the  standards 
of  your  fathers  and  mothers,  and 
you  will  come  out  on  top  with  your 
colors  flying.  Do  not  abandon  the 
things  that  they  have  held  dear." 
He  died  last  year,  but  this  was  his 
testimony,  and  this  is  my  testimony 
to  you,  brethren  and  sisters.  It  is 
being  demonstrated  in  the  canton- 
ments where  our  "Mormon"  boys 
are  now  reporting  for  service.  But 
the  beginning  of  the  reformation, 
and  the  change  that  the  Lord  wants 
to  spread  all  over  trie  world,  until 
the  whole  world  shall  keep  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  too,  is  coming. 
We  have  been  preaching  prohibi- 
tion, the  abstinence  from  the  use  of 
liquors — and  I  want  to  tell  you  that 
it  would  have  taken  fifty  years  to 
have  accomplished  the  change 
among  the  nations  of  the  earth 
that  has  come  during  this  war.  The 
Lord  has  forced  the  circumstances 
of  nations  so  that  they  are  abandon- 
ing the  use  of  liquor. 

We  will  come  to  the  day  when 
we  will  abandon  the  use  of  tobacco. 
Instead  of  sending  train  loads  to 
our  boys  to  undermine  their  health, 


we  will  be  loading  those  trains  with 
food  for  them ;  and  instead  of 
using  the  acres  that  are  now  plant- 
ed to  the  raising  of  tobacco,  we 
will  raise  wheat  and  other  .sub- 
stances that  shall  be  needed.  We 
will  come  to  the  day  when  we  will 
have  to  conserve  this  land  for  rais- 
ing of  more  beneficial  things ;  so 
the  leaven  is  working  and  God's 
purposes  are  being  accomplished  in 
the  nations  of  the  earth  through  the 
chastisement  that  is  coming. 

Now,  brethren  and  .sisters,  I  do 
not  think  there  is  an  experience 
through  which  we  have  passed  but 
that  has  its  lesson.  What  is  the 
lesson  to  us  ?  The  lesson  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints  is  this,  that  we 
who  have  been  called  and  chosen 
to  be  the  ensign,  the  pattern,  the 
example  to  the  world,  .shall  set  our 
houses  in  order,  that  we  shall  turn 
our  faces  toward  the  Lord.  And 
we  know  many  of  us  have  neglect- 
ed him.  We  know  we  have  failed 
to  keep  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord.  We  must  repent,  for  if  we 
do  not  repent,  we  shall  be  chas- 
tised too,  for  the  Lord  does  not 
look  upon  sin  and  wickedness  in  a 
Latter-day  Saint  with  any  degree 
of  allowance,  any  more  than  in  any- 
body else ;  but  because  of  our 
knowledge,  greater  responsibility 
rests  upon  our  shoulders. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  be  not 
alarmed  or  disturbed  if  our  boys 
go  into  battle.  Be  not  concerned 
if  some  of  them  lay  down,  their  lives 
— for  if  so,  it  shall  be  that  we  too 
need  to  be  touched,  and  have  our 
hearts  turned  back  to  the  things  of 
God  that  some  of  us  have  almost 
forgotten.  In  our  mad  zeal  in  the 
accumulation  of  the  things  of  this 
world,  we  have  almost  lost  .sight  of 
the  purposes  that  God  had  in  bring- 


142 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ing  our  fathers  to  these  valleys  of 
the  mountains,  giving  them  more 
precious  things  than  gold  and  sil- 
ver. The  blessed  heritage  of  the 
gospel  has  been  entrusted  into  the 
hands  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  The 
world  has  riches  beyond  anything 
we  have,  but  we  have  the  one 
precious  thing  that  they  do  not 
have,  and  it  is  worth  more  than  all 
other  things  in  the  world — the  sav- 
ing principles,  the  priesthood,  the 
virtue  and  the  power  of  the  gospel 
of  the  Son  of  God.  And  that  is 
the  thing  the  world  will  desire  more 
than  they  want  anything  else,,  and 
they  will  come  to  it.  Shall  we  be 
prepared  to  give  it  to  them?  We 
will  be,  if  we  are  wise ;  and  this  is 
the  day  when  I  say  we  ought  to 
set  our  houses  in  order,  a  day  when 
we  ought  to  repent.  And  if  we 
need  chastisement,  it  will  come  to 
us,  and  sorrow  will  come  to  us, 
only  for  the  purpose  of  turning  our 
hearts  to  the  Lord  in  humility  and 
faith  to  obtain  and  maintain  the 
blessings  God  has  promised  to  the 
faithful. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have 
a  testimony  as  I  have  labored 
among  the  soldier  boys  who  have 
been  in  these  camps,  that  their  faith 
is  growing.  I  have  listened  to  their 
testimonies,  I  have  had  the  pleasure 
of  ordaining  to  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  a  score  or  more  of  them, 
some  were  not  even  deacons,  when 
they  went  into  the  war,  but  they 
hav  been  reading,  associating  with 
their  companions,  returned  mission- 
aries, and  corresponding  with  their 
bishops,  and  thev  now  seek  the 
priesthood ;  and  I  never  have  been 
more  inspired  in  my  life  than  in 
laying  my  hands  upon  their  heads' 
and  blessing  them  and  conferring 
the  priesthood  upon  them,   and  I 


have  never  seen  men  more  eager 
than  some  of  them  are.  Do  not  fear 
for  them,  for  my  testimony  is  they 
are  going  to  be  on  their  mettle  and 
keep  the  commandments  of  God, 
they  are  preparing  themselves  if 
necessary  for  the  great  sacrifice. 

When  General  Green,  the  com- 
mander of  the  Ninety-first  Division 
at  American  Lake,  returned  recent- 
ly from  France,  he  wanted  every 
man  in  that  cantonment  to  obtain 
a  Bible,  and  said,  "I  want  them  to 
read  over  and  over  the  story  of  the 
God-man  who  died  for  men,  that 
you  too  may  learn  how  to  die  for 
men."  His  statement  to  me  was 
that  he  wanted  our  boys  to  have 
all  the  benefits  of  their  church,  all 
of  its  instruction  and  inspiration 
possible;  this  spirit  is  dominant 
among  those  men,  and  I  say  to  you 
that  I  have  a  testimony  that  the  ma- 
jority of  our  boys  will  come  back 
again. 

The  Lord  Almighty  made  a 
promise  that  in  the  last  .days  he 
would  mark  his  servants,  even  as 
the  lintels  of  the  doors  were  mark- 
ed in  ancient  Israel,  and  the  de- 
stroying- angel  who  passed  by 
spared  those  houses,  so  shall  his 
servants  be  marked  in  their  fore- 
heads and  spared  destruction  in  the 
last  days.  I  may  not  see  the  mark 
but  the  destroying  angels  shall,  and 
in  the  midst  of  battle  his  servants 
shall  receive  protection. 

We  have  had  some  ten  of  the 
brethren,  members  of  the  Church, 
in  this  battle  since  the  very  begin- 
ning, three  years  ago.  They  have 
been  in  all  manner  of  .difficulties.  A 
shell  exploded  near  one  of  them 
and  threw  him  forty  feet  in  the  air, 
and  he  fell  on  a  pile  of  bricks. 
Three  vertebrae  were  dislocated, 
but  he  recovered.    They  have  been 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


143 


in  the  midst  of  fire,  but  not  one  has 
lost  his  life,  although  they  have 
been  wounded.  One  of  the  breth- 
ren told  me  that  he  was  in  charge 
of  a  squad  of  men  carrying  the 
stretchers  that  picked  the  men  up 
right  where  they  dropped,  in  the 
battle  field ;  and  he  was  in  the  midst 
of  bursting  shells  for  hours,  and  he 
said,  "I  never  went  a  step  of  the 
way  that  there  was  not  a  prayer  in 
my  heart  to  save  those  poor  wound- 
ed men  and  .save  my  own  men  and 
escape,  and  many  times  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  Lord  came  to  .me,  'Take 
this  road  out,'  'Stop  there,'  'Turn 
there,'  and  immediately  I  have  seen 
where  I  stood;  a  shell  drop  that 
tore  everything  to  fragments,  and 
we  would  have  gone  into  eternity." 

I  do  not  think  the  Lord  will  take 
hold  of  the  shell  and  turn  it  away 
from  your  boy,  but  I  think  the 
Lord  will  put  it  into  the  heart  of 
your  boy  to  be  in  a  place  of  se- 
curity, and  those  who  command 
him  will  place  him  where  he  will 
do  his  'duty  and  where  he  will  be 
safe ;  and  the  angels  of  the  Lord 
shall  be  there,  and  it  is  my  testi- 
mony that  a  majority  of  them  shall 
come  back  home. 

I  listened  to  the  testimony  of 
Harry  Lauder,  the  great  Scotch 
comedian.  I  heard  him  make  a 
statement  recently  in  Portland,  and 
I  give  it  to  you  as  an  evidence  of 
that  changing  sentiment  that  is 
coming  over  the  children  of  men. 
To  young  men  usually  death  seems 
a  long  way  off,  but  not  so  to  the 
soldier  boy.  When  we  get  old,  we 
know  we  mav  be  sick  and  near  the 
time  of  death,  but  these  tens  of 
thousands  of  young  men,  feel  that 
it  may  be  only  a  month  or  two  and 
they  will  be  slumbering  in  France, 
They  want  to  know  what  shall  hap- 


pen when  their  young  life  shall  be 
cut  short ;  so  many  are  now  inter- 
ested, and  we  have  baptized  three 
of  these  young  men,  as  a  result  of 
our  labors  in  the  cantonment  at 
American  Lake. 

I  now  see  some  of  the  comforts 
and  blessings  of  fathers  and  moth- 
ers having  more  than  one  son,  for 
if  I  have  ever  seen  a  thing  that  is 
heart-breaking,  it  is  to  go  into  a 
home  where  there  is  only  one  child, 
one  boy,  and  he  is  gone,  and  they 
are  all  alone.  There  is  comfort  'left 
for  those  who  have  more  than  one 
son,  if  accidents  do  come ;  but  there 
are  some  families  whose  names  will 
be  wiped  out,  they  have  had  only 
one  child.  Harry  Lauder  had  but 
one  child,  never  thought  he  would 
perish,  but  he  did,  and  when  the 
blow  fell  upon  him,  he  was  dazed, 
and  said  for  days  he  was  beside 
himself  in  grief.  "At  times  during 
those  first  days,"  he  said,  "I  almost 
questioned  the  justice  and  wisdom 
of  a  God  who  would  allow  such  a 
thing  to  happen."  And  then  he 
said : 

All  this  time  while  I  had  been  rag- 
ing against  the  cruel  fates  which  had 
taken  my  son,  there  had  been  com- 
fort and  peace  in  store  for  me,  and  I 
had  not  known  it.  And  that  comfort 
and  peace  lay  in  my  belief  in  God  and 
a  future  life  beyond  this  sphere. 

Now,  while  the  pain  and  grief  had 
been  blinding  my  eyes,  God  had  been 
waiting-  patiently  for  the  first  sharp 
agony  to  pass  away,  and  when  it  did 
he  gently  lifted  the  veil  from  my  eyes 
and  showed  me  the  promised  land  be- 
yond. T  mean  that  suddenly  I  realized 
that  I  had  not  seen  the  last  of  John, 
and  that  we  were  sure  to  meet  in 
another  world. 

Oh,  that  I  could  convey  unto  you 
the  healing  balm  that  that  thought 
was  to  my  soul!  I  would  that  I 
could  picture  to  you  the  joy  of  the 
thought  that  T  was  to  see  my  John 
again  at  some  future  date,  just  as  if 


144 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


he  had  simply  gone  on  a  long  journey, 
and  was  waiting  for  his  mother  and 
me  to  come  to  him.  And  I  brought 
his  image  before  me,  and  imagined 
him  holding  out  his  arms  to  his 
mother  and  myself  to  fold  us  within 
his  loving  embrace,  and  in  the  joy 
created  by  that  picture  I  was  able  to 
assuage  some  of  my  pain  and  dis- 
tress, and  return  to  an  almost  normal 
state  of  mind. 

And  because  of  the  great  comfort 
that  my  belief  and  faith  in  the  future 
life  have  brought  me,  I  have  become 
humbly  grateful  a,nd  thankful  that  I 
never  mocked  the  name  of  God  or 
cast,  him  from  me  at  any  period  of 
my  life.  Because  I  know,  I  am  con- 
vinced, that  he  has  helped  me  to  bear 
this  great  blow  by  making  my  con- 
viction that  this  life  is'  not  the  end 
stronger  than  ever. 

This  spirit  is  sweeping-  over  the 
world.  And  now  the  doctrine  we 
believe  that  we  shall  live  again,  and 
be  the  same  individual  after  death 
as  in  this  life,  though  at  one  time 
believed  only  by  few  others  than 
the  Latterday  Saints,  has  be- 
come the  source  of  comfort  and 
happiness  among  the  children 
of  men,  and  now  they  know 
they  would  not  be  satisfied  if 
they  could  not  meet  the  very  John 
they  laid  away.  They  want  to  see 
him  in  the  exact  form  and  features, 
the  very  same  individual.  And  now 
the  blessed  hope  of  salvation  for 
the  dead  will  come  naturally  into 
their  lives.  O,  how  wonderful  are 
the  provisions  of  our  Father  to 
meet  all  the  emergencies  of  life — 
its  joys,  its  sorrows,  its  distresses. 
Here  is  a  gospel  that  meets  all 
emergencies. 

But  unless  we  keep  the  command- 
ments of  God,  we  shall  not  reap  the 
results  of  joy,  and  happiness,  and 
security,  and  safety  in  the  midst  of 
troubles  that  are  to  come.  My 
brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  my  tes- 
timony, that  God  lives,  that  this  is 


the  hour  of  judgment,  the  day  of 
repentance,  and  that  men  will  be 
forced  to  yield  even  through  much 
sorrow  and  affliction  if  not  other- 
wise, for  it  is  the  time  when  they 
must  yield  to  the  will  and  the  pur- 
poses of  Almighty  God. 

May  he  bless  us  and  help  us  as 
members  of  his  Church  to  stand  in 
our  place  and  discharge  our  duty, 
and  come  out  victorious  whether  we 
live  or  whether  we  die,  that  we 
shall  be  prepared  to  come  into  his 
presence  and  into  that  realm  where 
we  shall  meet  the  blessed,  and  re- 
deemed, and  saved  in  his  celestial 
kingdom,  I  humbly  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  ORVIL  S.  THOMPSON. 

(President  of  Millard  Stake  of  Zion.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  am 
overwhelmed  with  the  sense  of  the 
responsibility  of  this  moment.  I 
think  I  have  never  before  been  so 
thoroughly  impressed  with  the  re- 
sponsibility that  attaches  to  an 
elder  of  the  Church  in  occupying 
this  position,  as  I  have  been  during 
the  sessions  of  this  conference.  The 
thought  has  come  to  me  that  here 
are  men  and  women  who  have 
traveled  great  distances,  from  Can- 
ada, Arizona,  Mexico,  Idaho,  our 
surrounding  states,  and  from  the 
furthermost  points  in  our  own 
state.who  have  come  up  here  to  be 
instructed.  And  how  brief  and  how 
precious  is  the  time  in  which  to 
recieve  the  many  instructions 
given!  So,  I  pray,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  ask  your  faith  and  sup- 
port, that  the  time  I  have  been  al- 
lotted shall  not  be  wasted,  but  that 
the  Lord  shall  inspire  that  which  I 
may  be  led  to  say. 

I  wish  to  express  my  approval, 


ELDER  ORVILLE  L.  THOMPSON 


145 


my  hearty  approval,  of  the  spirit 
and  business  action  taken  in  this 
conference  from  the  beginning  un- 
til this  moment.  I  want  to  ex- 
press my  approval  of  the  selection 
;of  the  man  who  has  been  called  to 
fill  the  vacancy  in  the  quorum  of 
the  Twelve  Apo.stles,  caused  by  the 
death  of  Elder  Hyrum  M.  Smith.  I 
have  known  Richard  Lyman  !for 
many  years.  I  bear  record  of  his 
virtues,  of  the  uprightness  of  his 
life,  and  of  his  ability.  I  see  in  him 
a  worthy  son  of  an  illustrious  sire, 
worthy  to  carry  on  the  splendid 
work  left  by  his  father.  Since  the 
death  of  Elder  Smith,  questions 
have  come  to  me  frequently,  "Who 
do  you  suppo.se  will  be  the  new 
apostle?"  It  is  a  natural  curiosity 
that  comes  into  our  minds  on  these 
occasions.  But  in  answer  to  that, 
universally  I  have  said,  "It  is  not 
my  business  to  choose,  not  my 
business  to  select,  not  my  business 
to  nominate — it  is  only  my  business 
to  be  in  a  position  of  faith  and  con- 
fidence in  regard  to  the  leaders  of 
my  Church,  that  shall  lead  me  to 
sustain  and  support  any  one  who 
shall  be  selected  under  the  inspir- 
ation of  the  Lord,  through  his 
servants  whose  duty  and  privilege 
it  is  to  nominate  to  these  important 
positions. 

That  faith  and  confidence  and 
devotion  which  I  desire  to  show  to 
the  authorities  of  the  Church  I  ex- 
tend also  in  a  very  large  measure  to 
the  authorities  of  our  Nation  in  this 
hour  of  our  national  crisis,  that  I 
shall  not  destroy  their  influence  by 
destructive  criticism,  but  rather 
that  I  may  help  them  if  possible,,  by 
my  helpful  work  and  sympathy. 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimonies  of  the 
conference,  in  the  splendid  instruc- 
tions, at  the  opening  session,  by 


President  Joseph  F.  Smith ;  and  I 
have  thought  that  if  the  Latter-day 
Saints  had  obeyed  the  instructions 
that  were  given  in  the  early  days 
of  the  Church,  in  the  conservation 
of  their  resources  and  in  the  patron- 
izing of  home  institutions  inaug- 
urated for  the  manufacture  of  the 
things  necessary  for  the  support 
and  comfort  of  the  people,  that 
we  would  indeed  be  in  a  splendid 
condition  at  this  day  and  time,  and 
the  necessity  of  teaching  conserva- 
tion and  supporting  home  industry 
would  hardly  be  necessary  among 
this  people. 

I  thought  of  the  splendid  work 
in  the  past  of  the  Relief  Society, 
of  the  thousands  and  thousands  of 
bushels  of  grain  stored  in  the 
granaries  of  our  people  by  the 
officers  and  members  of  that  or- 
ganization— of  the  instructions 
given  by  President  Brigham  Young 
and  with  what  enthusiasm  his  coun- 
sel was  taken  up  in  the  early  days  of 
the  Church  by  the  sisters.  But  we 
went  along  in  a  kind  of  a  hap- 
hazard easy-going  way,  the  neces- 
sity for  that  grain  in  the  future 
seemed  to  grow  more  distant,  we 
lost  interest,  the  wheat  was  sold, 
the  money  invested  in  other  things. 
The  thought  came  to  us  that  with 
the  increased  means  of  transpor- 
tation, with  our  immense  resources 
of  land  and  water,  there  never 
could  come  a  time  again  when  men 
and  women  would  suffer  for  the 
necessities  of  life,  for  the  staff  of 
life,  the  bread  necessary  for  the 
support  of  the  body. 

We  took  up  with  the  idea  of  the 
world,  as  announced  just  previous 
to  the  outbreak  of  the  great  war  by 
a  great  educator,  even  within  the 
walls  of  our  Tabernacle,  that  a 
great    international    war    for  the 


146 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


future  was  an  impossibility,  be- 
cause men  had  become  too  intel- 
ligent, the  financial  magnates  of  the 
earth  would  not  finance  another 
great  struggle,  and  we  might  never 
expect  to  be  engaged  in  another 
great  conflict.  But  the  Lord  had  de- 
clared that  the  people  would  be 
chastened,  and  one  of  the  means 
of  chastening  was  through  the  ef- 
fects of  war.  And  it  has  come — and 
the  benefits  of  those  early  teachings 
are  now  more  apparent  to  us  than 
they  have  ever  been  in  the  history 
of  this  people. 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  of 
Elder  Melvin  J.  Ballard  in  regard 
to  the  condition  of  our  soldier  boys 
located  in  the  cantonments  of  our 
country.  The  United  States  Gov- 
ernment issues  daily  an  official 
bulletin,  which  contains  a  descrip- 
tions of  the  orders  and  activities 
of  those  located  at  the  seat  of  the 
Government.  One  of  the  items 
which  I  usually  read  with  interest 
each  week,  in  this  official  bulletin, 
is  the  health  conditions  of  our  sol- 
dier boys  in  the  cantonments  in  the 
United  States ;  and  the  particular 
feature  that  I  have  paid  attention 
and  interest  to  is  that  which  refers 
to  the  moral  condition  of  our  young 
men  who  are  in  training  for  the  de- 
fense of  our  country.  There  is  a 
list  given  of  the  various  diseases 
and  ailments  which  drive  men  into 
the  hospitals  each  week — so  many 
cases  of  pneumonia,  so  many  cases 
of  scarlet  fever,  so  many  cases  of 
other  diseases  which  affliict  our 
boys  — and  among  these,  so  many 
that  enter  the  hospital  on  account 
of  breaking  of  the  laws  of  purity 
and  virtue,  an  average  perhaps  of 
from  1200  to  1500  "of  the  latter 
class  within  the  cantonments  of  the 
United  States  each  week.  I  have 


taken  occasion  to  notice  the  com- 
parison as  between  Camp  Kearny 
and  American  Lake  and  other  can- 
tonments throughout  the  country, 
as  they  compare  with  the  entrance 
into  the  hospital  from  these  causes ; 
and  I  rejoice  to  say  that  in  these 
places  where  the  men  are  assembled 
from  these  intermountain  states 
and  where  the  "Mormon"  boys 
come  from  chiefly,  that  we  find  the 
lowest  percentage  of  those  who  go 
into  the  hospitals  from  the  breaking 
of  the  laws  of  virtue  and  personal 
morality.  It  is  a  testimony  to  me 
that  the  teachings  of  the  parents 
have  had  effect  in  the  lives  of  our 
young  men,  and  that  they  have 
carried  the  principles  of  virtue  and 
honesty  and  uprightness  and  honor 
into  the  service  of  their  country.  I 
rejoice  that  this  is  true. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have 
confidence  and  faith  in  the  young 
men  of  Zion.  I  think  they  will  not 
be  recreant  to  the  responsibility 
and  obligations  that  are  upon  them, 
they  will  not  bring  disgrace  upon 
their  parents  many  of  whom  have 
come  from  foreign  lands  and  es- 
tablished themselves  in  the  tops  of 
these  mountains,  and  have  taught 
correct  principles  to  their  children. 
I  would  be  a  .despicable  character 
indeed  were  I  recreant  to  the  name 
of  my  honest  old  Scotch  grand- 
father, the  only  one  of  a  large  fam- 
ily who  was  touched  by  the  influ- 
ence of  the  spirit  of  the  gospel,  who 
left  his  home  and  friends  and  fam- 
ily, all  that  he  had,  for  the  gospel's 
sake,  and  came  to  this  country.  I 
would  indeed  be  a  despicable  char- 
acter if  I  should  be  recreant  to  the 
memory  of  my  grand-mother,  who 
came  from  the  highlands  of  Scot- 
land, and  whose  body  was  left  in 
one  of  the  temporary  abiding  places 


ELDER  PETER  G.  JOHNSTON. 


147 


■of  the  Saints,  in  their  journey  to 
this  land.  I  would  be  a  despicable 
character  indeed  if  I  should  be  re- 
creant to  the  sacrifice  made  by  my 
°Tand-father  and  my  grand-mother 
in  laying  the  foundation  so  that  I 
might  live  here  in  peace  and  plen- 
ty, enjoying  the  society  of  the  ser- 
— fs  of  God.  As  President  Smith 
delivered  that  splendid  testimony 
that  here  within  these  mountain 
fastnesses  is  the  power  and  author- 
ity to  act  in  the  name  of  God,  my 
soul  was  thrilled  with  the  truth  of 
his  testimony,  and  I  repeat  it,  and 
bear  it  unto  you  at  this  time,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  PETER  G.  JOHNSTON. 

(Of  the  Church  Auditing  Committee.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the 
humility  of  my  heart,  I  earnestly 
desire  your  sympathy  and  faith,  that 
I  may  speak  the  truth. 

This  is  an  historic  spot,  the  "gates 
of  Zion,"  where 

Zion  stands  with  hills  surrounded — 
Zion,  kept  by  power  divine; 

All  her  foes  shall  be  confounded, 
Though  the  world  in  arms  com- 
bine; 

Happy  Zion,  happy  Zion, 
What  a  favored  lot  is  thine! 

and  we  will  feel  the  inspiration  of 
that  verse  and  thank  God  that  our 
lot  is  cast  here. 

No  doctrine  or  article  of  faith  do 
we  teach  our  children  more  sacredly 
than  that  the  Declaration  of  Inde- 
pendence and  the  Constitution  of 
this  Country  are  inspired  of  God 
the  eternal  Father;  and  therefore 
they  must  of  necessity  square  with 
the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
And  it  might  be  well  to  examine 
into  the  truth  of  that  statement  for 
a  moment.    For  example,  the  cor- 


nerstone upon  which  American  lib- 
erty is  built,  the  very  rock  in  which 
the  flag  staff  of  equal  privileges  is 
planted,  are  these  words : 

We  hold  these  truths  to  be  self- 
evident,  that  all  men  are  created 
equal;  that  they  are  endowed  by  their 
Creator  with  certain  inalienable 
rights;  that  among  these  are  life,  lib- 
erty, and  the  pursuit  of  happiness; 
that,  to  secure  these  rights,  govern- 
ments are  instituted  among  men,  de- 
riving their  just  powers  from  the  con- 
sent of  the  governed. 

Look  at  that  for  a  moment  care- 
fully. "All  men  are  created  equal," 
say  the  fathers  of  the  country,  hold- 
ing it  out  as  self-evident  to  every 
thinking  man,  making  a  statement 
that  all  the  world,  if  they  desired  to 
candidly  judge  the  cause  of  Amer- 
ica at  that  time,  could  see  what  was 
the  truth.  Well,  is  it  true?  Cer- 
tainly, as  God  lives  it  is  true,  and 
the  Kaiser  will  discover  it  is  true, 
and  the  powers  of  the  earth  have 
felt  the  truth  of  it,  and  they  have 
said,  as  John  Jaques  said: 

The  sceptre  may  fall  from  the  despot's 
grasp, 

When  with  winds  of  stern  justice  he 
copes, 

But  the  pillar  ,of  truth  will  endure  to 
the  last, 

And   its    firm-rooted    bulwarks  out- 
stand  the  rude  blast, 
And  the  wreck  of  the  fell  tyrant's 
hopes. 

Let  him  or  any  other  autocrat  or 
despot,  listen  to  that,  for  anent  that 
stands  the  doctrine  declared  by  au- 
tocracy that  God  gives  to  one  man 
the  special  right  to  rule  others.  That 
is  not  true,  that  comes  from  another 
source,  with  which  we  have  in  the 
past  had  to  deal. 

There  have  been  other  wars  than 
this,  and  we  have  taken  part  in  one 
of  them,  in  the  heavens,  when  there 


148 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


was  presented  to  us  the  identical 
doctrine,  not  of  German  "kultur," 
but  that  we  should  be  saved 
whether  we  would  or  no.  And  we 
said,  "No,  we  reject  the  doctrine." 
Lucifer,  the  master  of  it,  and  the 
designer  of  it,  with  a  third  part  or 
thereabouts  of  the  hosts  of  heaven, 
were  thrust  out  because  of  that  au- 
tocratic feeling,  that  he  wanted  all 
the  glory,  and  to  save  us  whether 
we  would  or  no.  And  we  will  thrust 
that  doctrine  out  again,  because  we 
are  free  men ! 

Thank  God  for  the  declaration 
that  all  men  are  created  equal  and 
endowed  by  their  Creator  with 
these  certain  privileges.  Oh,  how 
magnificently  that  squares  with  the 
statement  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  to 
Mr.  Wentworth,  when  he  asked  for 
something  that  would  express  the 
faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  It 
begins  this  way:  "We  believe  in 
God  the  Eternal  Father."  Yes,  and 
the  Declaration  of  Independence 
believes  in  the  same  truth  and  ad- 
vocates it  to  the  work! ;  and  the 
framers  of  the  Declaration,  with  a 
firm  reliance  upon  divine  Provi- 
dence for  the  support  of  that  truth, 
pledged  their  all,  including  their 
sacred  honor  in  its  maintenance.  It 
will  stand,  no  matter  what  the  cost, 
because  God  the  Father  has  brought 
forth  the  truth  in  this  land  that"  he 
prepared  for  the  restoration  of  the 
law  of  human  liberty,  and  the  law 
of  eternal  liberty,  the  perfect  law 
of  liberty.  The  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  must  needs  have  such 
a  government  to  come  forward  un- 
der, and  for  that  reason,  it  was  re- 
vealed and  brought  forth  in  this 
goodly  land  ;  and,  as  has  been  said 
before,  it  can  be  said  aagin,  when 
the  time  comes  in  which  the  king- 
dom of  God  shall  be^-  rule  upon 


the  earth,  the  flag  of  this  country, 
the  flag  representing  liberty  and 
equal  rights,  will  proudly  float  in 
the  breeze,  hoisted  aloft  by  those 
who  have  the  power  and  right  to 
defend  its  sanctity. 

There  is  an  inspiration  in  the 
sight  of  your  faces.  There  is  the 
belief  that  comes  from  my  heart, 
that  I  feel  you  realize  and  have  the 
testimony  of  this  great  truth,  that 
it  is  unto  God  the  Eternal  Father 
we  look  for  protection.  It  has  been 
declared  in  the  history  of  this  coun- 
try, as  has  already  been  made  refer- 
ence to  by  one  of  the  speakers,  that 
no  king  shall  ever  reig'n  upon  this 
land,  save  He  whose  right  it  is  to 
reign — provided,  however,  that  the 
people  of  this  land  will  fear  God 
and  give  glory  to  him  and  serve 
him.  It  is  not  necessary  to  go  into 
the  sacred  history  of  this  country, 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  to  find  that 
spirit — it  has  permeated  the  leaders 
of  this  land  and  the  men  that  God 
has  raised  up  for  the  preservation 
of  human  liberty ;  and  the  great 
Commoner,  Lincoln,  standing  on 
Gettysburg,  dedicating  the  field 
there  for  the  resting  place  of  those 
who  had  given  their  last  full  meas- 
ure— if  yon  will  remember  the 
words,  the  inspiration  of  them  will 
come  to  you,  when  he  said  that  it 
was  "for  us,  the  living" — think  of 
it,  whoever  reads  that  will  be  those 
who  live — "for  us,  the  living,  to  ,see 
to  it  that  this  Nation,  under  God, 
shall  have  a  new  birth  of  freedom." 
He  understood,  he  realized  the  ne- 
cessity of  fearing  God  and  giving 
glorv  to  him — and  in  the  dedication 
of  that  field,  and  in  the  dedication 
of  us  to  the  purpose  of  the  preser- 
vation of  liberty  in  the  earth,  he 
benueathed  to  us  the  privilege  of 
living  under  God,  in  order  that  the 


ELDER  BENJAMIN  GODDARD 


149 


"government  of  the  people"  might 
'not  perish  from  the  earth. 

And  the  same  inspiration  comes 
down  to  this  good  day  when  the 
President  of  the  United  States  said, 
"God  helping,  we  can  do  none  other 
than  strive  for  the  establishment  of 
the  principles  that  give  us  life." 
And  in  keeping  with  the  same  spirit, 
he  said,  ''the  purpose  is  to  make  the 
world  safe  for  this  principle  of 
equal  rights." 

Latter-day  Saints,  of  all  people, 
have  a  right  to  feel  grateful  to  Al- 
mighty God,  and  should  live  so  that 
the  inspiration  and  freedom  of  their 
lives  from  sin  will  bear  testimony 
to  the  fact  that  we  do  have  in  keep- 
ing these  .statements,  these  sacred 
revelations :  for  it  is  a  wonderful 
thing  for  the  Church  to  have  the 
statement  that  Almighty  God  in- 
spired the  framers  of  the  Constitu- 
tion under  which  we  live ;  and  we 
have  that,  it  is  contained  in  the 
101st  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants.  Wonderful !  Read  it 
and  get  the  fire  of  it. 

And  oh,  how  thankful  we  should 
be: 

Thou  hast  led  us  here  in  safety, 
Where  the  mountain  bulwark  stands, 

As  the  g-uardian  of  the  loved  ones 
Thou  hast  brought  from  many  lands: 

For  the  r,ock  and  for  the  river, 
The  valley's  fertile  sod; 

For  the  strength  of  the  hills  we  bless 
Thee, 

Our  God,  our  fathers'  God. 

Amen. 

ELDER  BENJAMIN  GODDARD. 

(Of  the  Bureau  of  Information,  Salt 
Lake  City) 

My  brethren  and  sisters  and 
friends;  this  ,of  course,  as  has  been 
remarked  by  the  other  speakers,  is  a 


very  inspiring  sight ;  and  it  occured 
to  me  while  I  was  sitting  here  that 
if  we  could  remember  half  we  have 
heard,  and  put  into  practice  even  a 
tithe  of  the  counsel  and  instruction 
given,  that  we  had  been  amply  paid 
for  attending  this  conference.  I  re- 
joice in  the  good  work.  I  rejoice 
with  you,  who  are  one  with  me  in 
the  same  faith,  in  the  instructions 
that  we  have  recieved.  And  yet,  it 
occurs  to  me  that  possibly  in  this 
vast  audience  there  may  be  some 
who  are  strangers  to  our  teachings, 
who  understand  not  the  doctrines 
as  taught  by  us,  who  have  not  re- 
ceived into  their  hearts  the  testi- 
monies borne  by  our  elders. 

It  is  my  province  to  be  here  daily, 
meeting  strangers  who  are  not  of 
our  faith.  I  often  think,  no  matter 
how  large  the  congregation,  there 
are  some  of  that  class  amongst  us ; 
and  it  may  be  there  are  some  right 
here.  We  distribute  our  literature 
very  freely  to  them.  We  hand  out 
our  tracts,  sell  them  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Coven- 
ants, the  Pearl  of  Great  Price. 
What  effect  it  has  upon  them  we 
little  know.  We  are  casting  bread 
upon  the  waters,  and  we  have  the 
utmost  faith  in  the  truth  that  it  will 
be  seen  after  many  .days. 

A  few  days  ago,  however,  I  re- 
ceived a  letter  from  the  Northwest, 
which  I  refer  to  my  friend, Pres- 
ident Ballard,  who  goes  back  there. 
Some  of  our  friends  who  have  been 
here  have  scattered  the  literature 
abroad,  and  I  am  going  to  take  the 
liberty,  therefore  of  reading  this 
letter  to  show  the  effect  that  it  may 
have  upon  some.  After  saying  that 
the  letter  is  from  so-and-so,  and 
giving  -the  address — giving  the 
number  and  the  street  and  the 
town — the  letter  commences,  "We 


150 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


do  not  want  any  more  of  your 
tracts.  The  Holy  Ghost  .dwells  in 
this  home,  and  we  have  no  room 
for  the  doctrine  of  men  and  devils. 
We  believe  in  a  real  communion 
with  the  Father,  the  Son,  and  the 
Holy  Ghost.  Praise  the  Lord!" 

Now,  I  suppose  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints  who  are  here,  that  that 
appears  very  foolish.  I  want  to 
appeal,  however,  to  Saint  and  sin- 
ner who  have  been  here  this  after- 
noon :Have  you  heard  the  doctrine 
of  men  and  devils  in  this  meeting? 
I  appeal  to  those  who  have  had  our 
literature,  who  have  read  our  tracts, 
who  have  sought  to  understand  why 
we  believe  in  God  the  Eternal 
Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ 
and  in  the  Holy  Ghost,  you  who 
have  known  that  the  "Mormons" 
believe  in  faith,  repentance,  baptism 
by  immersion  for  the  remission  of 
sins,  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by 
the  laying  on  of  hands,  the  priest- 
hood that  exists  amongst  us,  men 
having  recieved  authority  to  minis- 
ter in  the  things  of  God,  holding 
the  Aaronic  or  the  Melchizedek 
priesthood,  laying  hands  upon  the 
sick  that  they  may  recover,  sending 
their  Sons  and  daughters  into  all 
parts  of  the  world  to  preach  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ — in 
all  of  this,  have  you  detected  any  of 
the  doctrines  of  men  and  devils  ? 

But  I  appeal  to  you  with  regard 
to  one  statement  in  the  letter  that  I 
have  referred  to :  "We  believe  in 
the  real  communion  with  God  the 
Father  and  the  Son  and  the  Holy 
Ghost."  I  make  the  declaration 
here,  and  every  Latter-day  Saint 
can  say  amen  to  it,  that  nowhere 
upon  the  face  of  God's  earth  is 
there  a  people  who  have  had  more 
communing  with  the  Father,  with 
the  Son,  with  the  Holy  Ghost  than 


the  Latter-day  Saints.  What  does 
the  man  want?  What  does  the- 
world  want  more  than  it  has  al- 
ready received?  We  declare  in  all 
soberness  that  in  this  day  God  has 
given  to  us  a  prophetjoseph  Smith. 
We  'declare  that  when  but  a  boy  he 
went  out  into  the  woods  to  pray, 
and  that  he  recieved  a  revelation 
from  God.  The  Father  appeared 
unto  him,  Jesus  Christ  appeared 
unto  him,  they  talked  with  him.  Can 
any  man  have  a  more  real  com- 
munion with  God  than  that  ?  We  be- 
lieve that  God  has  manifested  him- 
self to  his  prophet,  that  through 
that  prophet  he  has  given  unto  us 
the  authority,  and  that  through  his 
labors  we  have  recieved  the  Church 
of  God. 

Now  then,  in  this  conference, 
from  the  begining,  on  Friday 
morning,  up  to  the  present  time, 
have  you  received  anything  that  is 
calculated  to  inspire  you  to  go  on 
with  the  work  of  God?  I  have  felt 
the  very  blood  in  my  veins  tingling 
as  I  listened  to  the  prophets  of  God. 
I  have  vowed  more  fervently  before 
God  that  I  would  live  nearer  to 
him,  that  I  would  endeaver  to  keep 
his  commandments,  that  my  life 
should  be  a  testimony  of  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  These  are 
the  feelings  that  we  have  had  in  our 
meetings,  you  have  had  them.  Now, 
what  are  we  going  to  do  ?  This  con- 
ference is  nearly  over.  You  are 
going  to  the  various  wards  and 
stakes  of  Zion,  and  in  going  there, 
I  exhort  you,  my  brethren,  sustain 
the  brethren  who  have  given  you 
these  instructions,  let  your  hands 
be  raised,  let  your  hearts  send  forth 
prayers,  that  God  will  bless  all 
Israel.  I  think  we  have  a  splendid 
example  in  Holy  Writ.  Let  me  re- 
fer to  it. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  H.  HART. 


151 


There  was  a  time  in  the  days  of 
ancient  Israel  when  they  had  strug- 
gles just  as  we  are  having  now.  The 
time  was  when  all  Israel  had  to  go 
forth  to  battle.  You  are  familiar,  no 
doubt,  with  the  travels  of  Israel  to- 
ward the  promised  land.  I  draw 
your  attention  to  Just  one  story. 
When  in  the  midst  of  their  afflic- 
tion, when  they  were  beset  by  en- 
emies, when  they  were  going  out 
through  the  lands  of  the  heathens, 
Moses,  the  leader  of  Israel,  said  to 
his  commander  in  chief,  who  was 
going  out  to  battle,  "Joshua,  choose 
out  men,  go  out,  fight  with  the 
Amalekites.  Tomorrow  I  will  stand 
on  the  top  of  the  hill  with  the  rod 
of  God  in  my  hand."  And  Joshua 
went  out  to  fight,  and  Moses  went 
up  onto  the  hill,  and  it  came  to  pass 
that  as  the  hands  of  Moses  got 
weary  and  began  to  lower,  on  ac- 
count of  his  age,  and  on  account 
of  the  time,  that  the  Amalekites 
prevailed  over  Israel ;  but  Aaron 
and  Hur  came  to  his  side.  They 
placed  a  rock  for  him  to  sit  upon, 
one  on  each  ,side,  they  held  up  his 
arms,  and  as  long  as  those  arms 
were  extended  to  heaven,  Israel 
prevailed,  the  heathen  were  des- 
troyed, and  those  hands  were  raised 
until  the  going  down  of  the  sun, 
and  victory  came  to  them. 

I  have  only  one  thought  in  this — 
when  you  go  to  your  homes,  when 
we  all  go  to  our  homes,  let  us  get 
upon  our  knees.  "Not  to  your  tents, 
O  Israel :  to  your  knees,  O  Israel !" 
With  one  voice  raise  your  hands  to 
heavens  and  pray  that  God  will 
sustain  the  president  of  this 
Church,  the  apostles  who  are  with 
him,  all  who  are  laboring  to  build 
up  Zion,  and  let  us  feel,  with  one 
heart  with  one  mind,  that  we  are 
maintaining  them  in  their  position 


as  prophets,  seers,  and  revelators. 
Go  to  our  homes,  yes,  and  pray 
that  God  will  bless  the  President 
of  this  Nation,  the  Cabinet,  all  who 
are  endeavoring  to  maintain  this 
struggle  for  freedom !  To  our 
homes,  yes,  and  upon  our  knees 
pray  that  God  will  bless  our  boys, 
to  guide  them  in  their  struggles, 
and  send  them  home  again ! 
God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART. 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

The  Constitution  and  its  makers  in- 
spired— 'Distinguishing  characteristic 
of  the  Constitution — Illustrations 
from  the  Bible  and  Book  of  Mormon 
showing  why  it  is  undesirable  to  live 
under  kings — Germany  disregarded 
the  lg.st  five  of  the  Ten  Command- 
ments— |We  are  making  war  because 
war  is  wrong — Let  us  do  our  full 
duty,  and  sustain  our  country  to  the 
uttermost. 

This  is  one  of  the  mo.st  stationary 
and  attentive  outdoor  audiences  I 
think  I  have  ever  seen.  You  have 
listened  with  great  interest  to  the 
important  topics  that  have  been  pre- 
sented to  you  this  afternoon.  I  am 
sure  that  we  have  rejoiced,  those  of 
us  who  have  attended  these  confer- 
ence meetings,  in  the  spirit  and 
teachings  of  these  meetings.  I 
thought  this  morning  in  viewing 
the  beautiful  decorations  of  the 
Tabernacle  with  the  national  colors, 
how  appropriate  it  is  to  have  so  dec- 
orated a  hall,  at  a  conference  meet- 
ing in  which  an  appropriation  of  a 
quarter  of  a  million  was  made  for 
the  purchase  of  Government  bonds  ! 

I  have  rejoiced  in  the  references 
we  have  had  made  by  various  of  the 
brethren  to  the  fact  that  the  Con- 
stitution of  the  United  States  was 
an  inspired  document.    I  want  to 


152 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


testify  to  the  conviction  that  that  is 
true,  a  conviction  reached  by  me 
not  only  from  a  belief  in  the  revela- 
tion which  so  informs  us,  but  also 
from  a  knowledge  of  the  document 
and  a  historical  .study  of  its  forma- 
tion. [\ 
Had  the  document  not  been  in- 
spired, that  grand  old  statesman  of 
England,  Premier  Gladstone,  would 
not  have  said  that  it  was  the  great- 
est document  ever  struck  off  at  a 
given  time  by  the  brain  and  purpose 
of  man. 

Had  those  delegates  not  been  in- 
spired, another  jurist  of  our  land 
would  not  have  said  of  them  that 
it'  was  "the  goodliest  fellowship  of 
law  givers  whereof  this  world  has 
record." 

Had  those  men  not  been  inspired, 
Lord  Bryce,  the  author  of  The 
American  Commonwealth,  would 
not  have  paid  the  splendid  tribute 
that  he  does  to  the  Constitution, 
giving  the  characteristic  and  under- 
lying principles  of  it  in  substan- 
tially the  same  way  as  they  are 
given  in  that  revelation  referred  to 
by  Brother  Johnston,  the  101st  Sec- 
tion of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
commencing  at  about  the  79th  verse, 
showing  the  purpose  of  the  Consti- 
tution, that  men  might  be  free,  that 
they  might  have  their  free  agency, 
and  be  responsible. 

Some  think  that  the  distinguish- 
ing characteristic  of  the  Constitu- 
tion of  the  United  States  was  its 
bill  of  rights.  That  is  not  true.  The 
essential  rights  set  forth  in  our  bill 
of  rights  were  known  to  mankind 
from  an  early  day,  from  the  time 
when  the  barons  at  Runnymede 
forced  old  King  John  to  give  them 
Magna  Charta  ;  and  it  was  known  in 
those  various  charters  of  English 
liberty  which  we  inherited  as  Amer- 


ican citizens,  and  which  we  brought 
with  us  as  a  birthright  and  a  her- 
itage when  we  came  to  this  coun- 
try. But  the  distinguishing  thing, 
the  pioneer  work  that  was  done  by 
these  delegates,  was  in  declaring 
the  fact  that  governments  derive 
their  just  powers  from  the  consent 
of  the  governed ;  and  that  is  a  prin- 
ciple that  I  think  the  Lord  has  de- 
sired that  his  people  should  adopt 
in  the  various  ages  of  the  world. 

You  read  the  Old  Testament,  I 
Samuel  8,  where  the  people  were 
desirous  of  having  a  king.  Read 
what  Samuel  says  to  theim  He  is 
pointing  out  here  some  of  the  things 
that  make  it  undesirable  for  them 
to  have  a  king: 

And  he  [Samuel]  said,  This  will  be 
the  manner  of  the  king  that  shall 
reign  over  you:  he  will  take  your  sons, 
and  appoint  them  for  himself,  for  his 
chariots,  and  to  be  his  horsemen;  and 
they  shall  run  before  his  chariots:  and 
he  will  appoint  them  unto  him  for 
captains  of  thousands,  and  captains  of 
fifties;  and  he  will  set  some  to  plow 
his  ground,  and  to  reap  his  harvest, 
and  to  make  his  instruments  of  war, 
and  the  instruments  of  his  chariots. 
And  he  will  take  your  daughters  to  be 
confectionaries,  and  to  be  cooks,  and 
to  be  bakers.  And  he  will  take  your 
fields,  and  your  vineyards,  and  your 
oliveyards,  even  the  best  of  them,  and 
give  them  to  his  servants.  And  he 
will  take  the  tenth  of  your  seed,  and 
of  your  vineyards,  and  give  to  his 
officers,  and  to  his  servants.  And  he 
will  take  your  menservants,  and  your 
maidservants,  and  your  goodliest 
young  men,  and  your  asses,  and  put 
them  to  his  work.  He  will  take  the 
tenth  of  your  flocks:  and  ye  shall  be 
his  servants.  And  ye  shall  cry  out  in 
that  day  because  of  your  king  which  ye 
shall  have  chosen  you;  and  the  Lord 
will  not  answer  you  in  that  day. 

There  are  some  very  striking 
things  here  in  the  Book  of  Mosiah. 
I  had  my  attention  called  to  it  this 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  H.  HART.  i;3 


morning  afresh.  In  the  29th  chap- 
ter of  Mosiah,  when  Mo.siah  grows 
old,  and  his  sons  have  abused  the 
trusts  of  government  reposed  in 
them,  and  the  people  desire  a  king, 
Mosiah  says  to  them : 

Now  I  say  unto  you,  that  because 
all  men  are  not  just,  it  is  not  expe- 
dient that  ye  should  have  a  king  or 
kings  to  rule  over  you. 

For  behold,  how  much  iniquity  doth 
one  wicked  king  cause  to  be  com- 
mitted! yea,  and  what  great  destruc- 
tion! 

Yea,  remember  king  Noah,  his  wick- 
edness and  his  abominations;  and  also 
the  wickedness  and  abominations  of 
his  people.  Behold  what  great  de- 
struction did  come  upon  them;  and 
also  because  of  their  iniquities,  they 
were  brought  into  bondage. 

And  were  it  not  for  the  interposi- 
tion of  their  all-wise  Creator,  and  this 
because  of  their  sincere  repentance, 
they  must  unavoidably  remain  in 
bondage  until  now. 

But  behold,  he  did  deliver  them  be- 
cause they  did  humble  themselves  be- 
fore him;  and  because  they  cried 
mightily  unto  him,  he  did  deliver  them 
out  of  bondage;  and  thus  doth  the 
Lord  work  with  his  power  in  all  cases 
among  the  children  of  men,  extending 
the  arm  of  mercy  towards  them  that 
put  their  trust  in  him. 

And  behold,  now  I  say  unto  you,  ye 
cannot  dethrone  an  iniquitous  king, 
save  it  be  through  much  contention, 
and  the  shedding  of  much  blood. 

For  behold,  he  has  his  friends  in 
iniquity,  and  he  keepeth  his  guards 
about  him:  and  he  teareth  up  the  laws 
of  those  who  have  reigned  in  right- 
eousness before  him:  and  he  trampleth 
under  his  feet  the  commandments  of 
God; 

And  he  enacteth  laws,  and  sendeth 
them  forth  among  his  people;  yea, 
laws  after  the  manner  of  his  own 
wickedness;  and  whosoever  doth  not 
obey  his  laws,  he  causeth  to  be  de- 
stroyed; and  whosoever  doth  rebel 
against  him,  he  will  send  his  armies 
against  them  to  war,  and  if  he  can, 
he  will  destroy  them:  and  thus  an  un- 
righteous king  doth  pervert  the  ways 
of  all  righteousness. 


There  is  more  along  the  same 
line.  Read  on  to  the  32nd  verse, 
and  then  the  38  and  39th  verses, 
showing  the  outcome  of  the  matter, 
whereby  the  people  selected  judges 
to  rule  over  them. 

I  have  rejoiced  in  the  teachings 
of  the  conference  which  will  enable 
us  to  be  strong  and  steadfast  in  the 
work  which  lies  before  us.  On  the 
matters  in  which  our  nation  is  in- 
volved, some  plain  things  have  been 
said.  The  truth  is  that  a  military 
system  has  developed  which  has  dis- 
regarded the  last  half  (the  last  five) 
of  the  Ten  Commandments.  Very 
largely,  at  least,  their  system  stands 
for  the  disregard  of  those  com- 
mandments. While  the  world  slept, 
nor  dreamed  that  there  was  great 
danger  for  the  people,  this  military 
caste  looked  out  over  the  land  of 
their  neighbors  to  the  north  to  the 
Baltic,  to  the  south  to  the  Mediter- 
ranean, and  to  the  west  to  the  Eng- 
lish Channel ;  and  f  orgot  the  com- 
mandment, "Thou  shaft  not  steal." 
And  in  planning  to  extend  the  bor- 
ders of  their  country,  they  forgot 
also  the  other  commandment, 
"Thou  shalt  not  kill,"  and  the  com- 
mandment— in  their  system  of  es- 
pionage in  other  nations,  particu- 
larly active  just  now  in  Mexico — 
"Thou  shalt  not  bear  false  witness 
against  thy  neighbor."  And  other 
commandments  their  soldiers  have 
disregarded  in  their  work  of  taking 
forcible  possession  of  those  lands. 

When  we  read  the  story  of  the 
outrage  upon  Belgium,  of  the  hun- 
dreds of  thousands  of  Armenians 
who  have  lost  their  lives,  of  the 
awful  tragedy  in  Rumania,  and  of 
that  great  highway  along  which  the 
Polish  Russian  refugees  passed, 
leaving  now  a  highway  carpeted 
with  the  rags  from  their  clothing 


154 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  the  small  baskets  which  once 
held""  little  babes — and  the  .small 
bones  only  of  fingers  and  toes,  the 
large  bones  having  been  gathered 
up,  so  the  correspondent  tells  us, 
for  phosphates  and  fertilizers ! 
When  we  think  of  these  things  and 
sense  the  responsibility  upon  us  as 
our  "brother's  keeper" — in  a  way 
we  realize  the  necessity  for  our  po- 
sition today.  You  say  war  is  wrong, 
but  it  is  because  war  is  wrong  that 
we  are  making  war.  We  remained 
out  of  this  as  long  as  we  could  and 
maintain  our  self-respect.  We  had 
been  taught  as  American  citizens 
that  an  American  citizen  had  rights 
which  should  be  respected  every- 
where. The  Supreme  Court,  at  an 
early  date  had  announced  that  prin- 
ciple— that  an  American  citizen, 
whether  upon  the  high  seas  or  upon 
foreign  lands,  had  rights  which 
other  nations  were  bound  to  respect. 
When  we  saw  the  rights  of  Amer- 
ican citizens  disregarded,  as  in  such 
instances  as  the  sinking  of  the 
Lusitania;  and  after  a  promise 
against  ruthless  submarine  warfare 
and  a  system  of  destruction  of  the 
lives  and  property  of  our  citizens 
resumed — the  only  thing  that  we 
could  do  and  remain  true  to  our 
traditions  and  the  heritages  of  the 
past,  and  retain  our  self-respect, 
was  to  do  as  our  government  has 
done. 

The  President  of  the  United 
States  said  yesterday,  among  other 
things : 

Germany  has  once  more  said  that 
force  and  force  alone  shall  decide 
whether  justice  and  peace  shall  reign 
in  the  affairs  of  men,  whether  right, 
as  America  conceives  it,  or  dominion, 
as  she  conceives  it,  shall  determine 
the  destinies  of  mankind.  There  is, 
therefore,  but  one  response  possible 
form  us,  Force,  force  to  the  utmost, 


force  without  stint  or  limit — the  right- 
eous force  which  shall  make  right  the 
law  of  the  world  and  cast  every  selfish 
dominion  in  the  dust. 

Therefore,  it  is  that  we  stand 
against  the  system  which  enables 
men,  full-grown  men  to  drop  bombs 
upon  sleeping  babes  and  upon  sleep- 
ing communities,  to  destroy  help- 
less women  and  noncombatant  men, 
and  we  realize  the  responsibility 
that  rests  with  us.  In  the  language 
of  our  national  hymn  : 

In  the  beauty  of  the  lilies  Christ  was 

born  across  the  sea, 
With  the  glory  in    his    bosom  that 

transfigures  you  and  me: 
As  He  died  to  make  men  holy,  let  us 

die  to  make  men  free. 

May  the  Lord  bless  the  proceed- 
ings of  this  conference — those  who 
have  come  up  here,  that  the  words 
that  have  been  given  here  may  be 
borne  home  to  the  people ;  that  we 
may  return  to  our  homes  with  a  de- 
termination to  do  our  utmost  as 
citizens  of  the  United  States  to  de- 
fend  the  heritages  which  we  have. 
With  us  it  is  a  religious  duty  as  well 
as  a  civic  obligation  to  sustain  our 
country  to  the  uttermost.  And  may 
the  Lord  help  us  do  this,  I  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

After  the  singing  of  the  "Dox- 
ology,"  benediction  was  pronounced 
by  Bishop  Percy  Goddard. 


CLOSING  SESSION. 

In  the  Tabernacle  the  conference 
was  called  to  order  by  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  who  presided. 

President  Grant  announced  over- 
flow meetings  to  be  held  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall  this  afternoon,  under 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH,  JR. 


155 


direction  of  Elder.  J.  Golden  Kim- 
ball, of  the  First  Council  of  Sev- 
enty; and  in  the  open  air  meeting- 
near  the  Bureau  of  Information 
Building,  under  direction  of  Elder 
Charles  H.  Hart,  of  the  First  Coun- 
cil of  Seventy. 

The  choir  sang-,  "For  the  strength 
of  the  hills  we  bless  the,  our  God, 
our  father's  God,"  music  by  Evan 
Stephens. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  E.  J. 
Wood,  President  of  the  Alberta, 
Canada,  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem : 
"Watching  over  Israel." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH,  JR. 

Blessings  and  advantages  of  the  gos- 
pel— Tunning  to  God  because  of  the 
war — Are  the  people  observing  his 
commandments-?  —  Restrictions  and 
conservation  are  means  of  teaching 
righteousness — Is  this  means  being 
taken  advantage  of? — A  warning 
voice  to  the  Latter-day  Saints — The 
office  and  calling-  of  prophets  and 
teachers. 

I  have  but  one  desire  this  after- 
.  noon  and  that  is  to  add  my  testi- 
mony to  the  testimonies  that  have 
already  been  given  at  the  sessions 
of  this  conference,  to  the  truth  of 
this  great  latter-day  work,  and  to 
testify  that  I  know,  as  my  brethren 
who  have  spoken  have  testified,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ  and  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  and  is  a  prophet  of  God 
who  was  called,  raised  up  and  filled 
with  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  that  he 
might  establish  in  the  world  the 
truth  of  the  everlasting-  gospel 
which  for  so  many  hundreds  of 
years  had  been  absent  from  the 
earth,  because  of  the  transgressions 
of  the  people.  It  was  the  purpose 
of  the  Lord  in  calling-  Joseph  Smith 
to  warn  the  people,  to  call  them  unto 
repentance,  and  bring  them  into  the 


fold,  if  they  would  come,  where 
they  could  obtain  all  the  necessary 
privileg-es,  blessings  and  advantages 
belonging  to  the  gospel  before  the 
great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord 
should  come.  The  Lord  has  always 
raised  up  prophets  when  prophets 
were  needed,  to  teach  the  people, 
warn  them  of  threatened  dangers 
and  give  them  the  knowledge, 
through  repentance,  by  which  they 
might  escape.  It  became  necessary 
therefore  in  the  dispensation  of  the 
fulness  of  time  and  before  the  com- 
ing of  the  Son  of  God,  for  the  gos- 
pel to  be  restored,  the  nations  of 
the  earth  to  be  warned,  and  every 
man  to  have  the  privilege  of  ac- 
cepting the  truth  or  rejecting  it. 

Permit  me  to  read  a  few  passages 
of  scripture  from  a  revelation  that 
was  given  over  eighty-six  years 
ago,  a  revelation  that  was  given  to 
the  world  for  the  benefit  of  all  the, 
children  of  our  Father  in  heaven. 
I  read  from  the  first  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  where  the 
Lord  says : 

Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my 
church,  saith  the  voice  of  him  who 
dwells  on  high,  and  whose  eyes  are 
upon  all  men;  yea,  verily  I  say, 
hearken,  ye  people  from  afar,  and  ye 
that  are  upon  the  islands  of  the  sea, 
listen  together. 

For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is 
unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none  to  es- 
cape, and  there  is  no  eye  that  shalr 
•not  see,  neither  .ear  that  shall  not 
hear,  neither  heart  that  shall  not  be 
penetrated. 

And  the  rebellious  shall  be  pierced 
with  much  sorrow,  for  their  iniquities 
shall  be  spoken  upon  the  housetops, 
and  their  secret  acts  shall  be  revealed. 

And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be 
unto  all  people^  by  the  mouths  of  my 
disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in 
these  last  days. 

And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none 
shall  stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord  have 
commanded  them. 


156 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


We  learn  from  the  very  first 
verse  which  I  have  read  that  this 
warning  is  primarily  to  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Church.  The  Church 
had  only  been  organized  a  little 
more  than  a  year  and  a  half,  for 
this  revelation  was  given  on  the 
first  day  of  November,  in  the  year 
1831.  The  Lord  speaks  first  unto 
his  people  and  ,says  unto  them, 
"Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my 
church."  Then  he  goes  on  to  tell 
what  shall  befall  the  nations  of  the 
earth,  all  peoples,  every  kinderd 
and  tongue,  provided  they  reject 
the  testimony  of  his  servants ;  and 
this  warning  is  not  only  unto  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  the  members  of 
the  Church,  but  unto  all  the  world, 
but  I  say  first,  unto  the  members  of 
the  Church,  because  we  have  come 
out  of  the  world  and  have  made 
covenant  in  the  waters  of  baptism 
Jhat  we  will  ,serve  the  Lord  and 
keep  his  commandments.  I  wonder 
after  the  passing  of  eighty-six 
years  and  upwards  if  there  is  not 
room  even  in  Zion  for  repentance. 

I  was  very  pleased  to  hear  one 
of  our  mission  presidents  declare 
that  from  his  observation  he  could 
report  that  the  people  within  the 
borders  of  these  United  States,  be- 
cause of  the  troubles  now  coming 
upon  the  earth,  were  turning  unto 
God.  It  was  very  pleasing  to  me  to 
know  that  their  hearts  are  being 
touched.  While  he  spoke  I  won- 
dered if  our  hearts  are  being 
touched  as  they  should  be,  and  if  we 
are  repenting  of  our  transgressions, 
our  follies,  our  imperfections,  and 
if  we  are  putting  forth  a  greater 
effort  to  serve  the  Lord  now  than 
ever  before?  If  not,  then  let  me 
say  to  you  who  are  here  assembled, 
and  I  pray  you  to  carry  the  word  to 
those  who  are  not  here  assembled 


who  belong  to  the  Church,  that  it 
is  the  will  of  the  Lord  that  his  peo- 
ple hearken  unto  this  command- 
ment from  which  I  have  read  and 
from  which  I  expect  to  read  still 
more,  and  observe  and  obey  all  his 
commandments. 

Are  we  observing  the  Word  of 
Wisdom?  Are  we  abstaining  from 
the  use  of  those  things  forbidden 
of  the  Lord  which  are  injurious  to 
our  health?  Are  we  faithful  in  the 
•discharge  of  our  duties  as  members 
of  the  Church,  in  the  attendance  at 
meetings,  both  priesthood  and  sac- 
ramental, and  all  other  meetings 
which  it  is  our  privilege  and  duty 
to  attend?  Are  we  true  and  faith- 
ful to  the  law  of  tithing  as  it  has 
been  given  unto  us,  and  which  is, 
if  you  please,  a  preparatory  doc- 
trine, given  as  a  schoolmaster  to 
lead  us  unto  the  higher  law,  or  are 
we  neglectful  of  our  opportunities 
in  this  regard?  Are  we  faithful  in 
remembering  our  prayers  before 
the  Lord  day  by  day,  not  only  our 
secret  prayers,  but  our  prayers  in 
family  organization,  in  the  family 
circle  ?  Are  we  in  possession  of  the 
spirit  of  prayer?  Have  we  made  it 
a  part  of  our  very  being?  Are  we 
in  touch  with  our  heavenly  Father 
through  the  Holy  Spirit,  or  are  we 
not?  And  so  I  could  go  on  and 
enumerate  other  principles  of  the 
gospel  and  other  duties,  if  time 
would  permit,  but  this  will  suffice. 
The  thing  I  want  to  impress  upon 
the  minds  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
is  this :  that  perilous  times  have 
come.  As  we  heard  in  the  singing 
of  the  choir,  the  tares  and  the  wheat 
are  growing  together  and  have 
been  growing  in  the  same  field  for 
all  these  years,  but  the  day  is  near 
at  hand  when  the  wheat  will  be  gar- 
nered, and  the  tares  likewise  will 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH,  JR. 


9 

157 


be  gathered  to  be  burned,  and  there 
will  come  a  separation,  the  right- 
eous from  the  wicked,  and  it  be- 
hooves each  one  of  us  to  keep  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord,  to  re- 
pent of  our  sins,  to  turn  unto  right- 
eousness, if  there  is  need  of  re- 
pentance in  our  hearts. 

Now,  let  me  read  again  a  verse 
which  I  have  already  read : 

And  the  rebellious  shall  be  pierced 
with  much  sorrow,  for  their  iniquities 
shall  be  spoken  upon  the  housetops, 
and  their  secret  acts  shall  be  revealed. 

And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be 
unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my 
disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in 
these  last  days. 

Now  again: 

Wherefore,  the  voice  ,of  the  Lord  is 
unto  the  ends  of  the  earth,  that  all 
that  will  hear  may  hear: 

Prepare  ye,  prepare  ye  for  that 
which  is  to  come,  for  the  Lord  is 
nigh; 

And  the  ano-er  of  the  LorcLjs  kin- 
dled, and  his  sword  is  bathed  in 
heaven,  and  it  shall  fall  upon  the  in- 
habitants of  the  earth; 

And  the  arm  of  the  Lord  shall  be 
revealed;  and  the  day  cometh  that 
they  who  will  n,ot  hear  the  voice  of 
the  Lord,  neither  the  voice  of  his 
servants,  neither  give  heed  to  the 
words  of  the  prophets  and  apostles, 
shall  be  cut  off  from  among  the 
people. 

Now,  that  is  the  word  of  the 
Lord.  This  declaration  is  not  mine, 
but  I  declare  it  unto  you  in  words 
of  soberness  as  being'  the  truth 
which  will  prevail,  and  there  is  rea- 
son for  us  to  seek  the  Lord  and  be 
more  sober  in  our  minds  and  in  our 
actions  than  we  have  m  the  past. 

Again,  I  was  thinking  when  our 
brother  spoke  of  the  condition  in 
the  world  wherein  the  people  are 
becoming  more  humble  than  they 
were  before  the  breaking  out  of  the 


war,  and  I  wondered  if  they  are 
turning  from  their  Sabbath  break- 
ing— their  excess  of  pleasure  seek- 
ing on  the  Lord's  day?  I  thought 
that  this  Government  of  ours  is 
overlooking  one  of  its  most  impor- 
tant duties  in  this  hour  of  conserva- 
tion, wherein  they  are  restricting 
us,  necessarily,  perhaps,  in  what 
we  shall  eat,  in  what  we  shall  wear  ; 
restricting  the  railroads  in  their 
transportation,  the  merchants  in 
that  which  they  shall  buy  and  sell ; 
and  when  they  are  taking  charge  of 
various  other  branches  of  industry. 
It  struck  me  that  they  are  overlook- 
ing one  of  the  most  important 
things  that  ought  to  be  considered 
by  the  leaders  of  the  Nation  for  the 
purpose  of  bringing  to  pass  right- 
eous peace  and  a  successful  ending 
of  the  war.  That  is  they  have  for- 
gotten or  have  overlooked  their  op- 
portunity to  restrict  the  people  in 
their  amusements  and  their  Sabbath 
breaking,  and  teach  them  right- 
eousness. Oh,  what  an  opportunity 
there  is,  in  all  this  restriction  and 
conservation,  to  conserve  faithful- 
ness and  humility  before  the  Lord, 
if  they  would  only  require  of  the 
people  to  do  so ;  but  as  we  find,  on 
the  Sabbath  day,  which  has  been  set 
apart  by  the  Lord  our  God  as  a  day 
on  which  we  should  worship  him, 
the  theatres,  the  places  of  amuse- 
ment and  recreation  throughout 
this  land  from  one  end  to  the  other, 
are  filled  and  overflowing.  The  peo- 
ple are  seeking  pleasure,  and  there 
is  still  room  for  a  great  repentance. 
The  Lord  would  be  more  inclined 
to  hear  the  cries  of  the  people  of 
this  land  and  aid  them  in  the  pres- 
ent awful  struggle,  if  they  would 
repent  and  worship  him.  But  all 
this  has  been  overlooked ! 

I  want  to  raise  the  warning  voice 


168 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  say  to 
them  that  it  is  the  will  of  the  Lord, 
and  I  think  I  dare  say  so,  that  they 
should  be  more  sober-minded  as 
well  as  industrious,  and  should 
spend  more  time  and  give  more  at- 
tention to  the  things  of  the  king- 
dom of  God  and  less  to  the  things 
of  the  world  and  the  seeking  of 
pleasure  in  this  hour  of  trouble. 
Before  we  are  through  I  fear  we 
will  be  sobered. 

Now,  I  will  read  again : 

Nevertheless,  he  that  repents  and 
does  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
shall  be  forgiven; 

And  he  that  repents  not,  from  him 
shall  be  taken  even  the  light  which 
he  has  received,  for  my  Spirit  shall 
■not  always  strive  with  man,  saith  the 
Lord  of  Hosts. 

And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  O 
inhabitants  of  the  earth,  T  the  Lord 
am  willing  to  make  these  things 
known  unto  all  flesh, 

For  I  am  no  respecter  of  persons, 
and  will  that  all  men  shall  know  that 
the  day  speedily  cometh;  the  hour  is 
not  yet,  but  is  nigh  at  hand,  when 
peace  shall  be  taken  from  the  earth, 
and  the  devil  shall  have  power  over 
his  own  dominion; 

Remember  this  revelation  was 
given  over  eighty-six  years  ago; 
again : 

And  also  the  Lord,  shall  have  power 
over  his  saints,  and  shall  reigrn  in  their 
midst,  and  shall  come  down  in  judg- 
ment upon  Idumea,  or  the  world. 

Search  these  commandments  for 
they  are  true  and  faithful,  and  the 
prophecies  and  promises  which  are  in 
them  shall  all  be  fulfilled. 

What  I  the  Lord  have  spoken,  I 
have  spoken,  and  I  excuse  not  my- 
self: and  though  the  heavens  and  the 
earth  pass  away,  my  word  shall  not 
pass  away,  but  shall  all  be  fulfilled, 
whether  by  mine  own  voice  or  by  the 
voice  of  my  servants,  it  is  the  same. 

Now,  just  another  passage  from 
this  same  section : 


Wherefore  I,  the  Lord,  knowing  the 
calamity  which  should  come  upon  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth,  called  upon 
my  servant  Joseph  Smith,  jun.,  and 
spake  unto  him  from  heaven,  and 
gave  him  commandments; 

And  also  gave  commandments  to 
others,  that  they  should  proclaim 
these  things  unto  the  world;  and  all 
this  that  it  might  be  fulfilled,  which 
was  written  by  the  prophets; 

The  weak  things  of  the  world  shall 
come  forth  and  break  down  the 
mighty  and  strong  .ones,  that  man 
shall  not  counsel  his  fellow  man, 
neither  trust  in  the  arm  of  flesh, 

But  that  every  man  might  speak  in 
the  name  of  God  the  Lord,  even  the 
Savior  of  the  world; 

That  faith  also  might  increase  in 
the  earth." 

The  Lord  called  Joseph  Smith, 
and  gave  unto  him  his  mission,  and 
those  who  were  associated  with 
him,  to  teach  the  world  the  princi- 
ples of  the  gospel.  The  Lord  has 
declared,  as  I  have  read  it  to  you 
here,  that  if  the  people  refuse  to 
hear  the  voice  of  his  servants,  and 
the  prophets,  they  shall  be  cut  off 
from  among  the  people. 

Well  now,  who  is  a  prophet  ?  The 
world  has  a  very  peculiar  notion  of 
what  a  prophet  is.  They  think 
that  the  whole  duty  of  a  prophet  is 
merely  to  foretell  what  is  going  to 
take  place,  that  prophecy  is  the  re- 
lating of  future  events,  but  that  is 
only  one  of  the  duties  of  a  prophet. 
I  am  reminded  of  a  circumstance 
that  took  place  in  Israel  in  the  days 
of  Moses  when  he  and  seventy  of 
the  elders  went  unto  the  tabernacle 
to  converse  with  the  Lord  and  they 
prophesied.  Two  of  the  elders 
who  were  not  with  the  others  but 
remained  in  the  camp,  also  received 
the  spirit  of  prophecy,  and  uttered 
predictions  and  preached  the  truth 
without  a  doubt.  Joshua — a  man 
who  himself  was  filled  with  wis- 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


159 


dom,  when  the  Lord  through  Moses 
called  him  to  be  the  leader  of  the 
people — seeing  that  these  men  were 
prophesying,  complained  to  Moses 
and  demanded  that  he  stop  them. 
Moses'  reply  was :  "Enviest  thou 
for  my  sake?"  Would  God  that  all 
the  Lord's  people  were  prophets, 
and  that  the  Lord  would  put  his 
spirit  upon  them !"  Then  I  read 
again  in  the  nineteenth  chapter  of 
the  book  of  Revelation,  in  that  same 
passage  of  scripture  that  was  re- 
ferred to  by  Brother  Ivins  this 
morning,  where  the  angel  of  the 
Lord  declared  to  John  that  the  tes- 
timony of  Jesus  is  the  spirit  of 
prophecy;  and  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  has  declared  that  every  man 
who  has  come  into  this  Church ; 
and  every  woman,  for  that  matter, 
who  has  received  the  testimony  of 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  is  a  prophet 
or  a  prophetess ;  that  every  man 
should  be  a  prophet,  because  every 
man  in  the  Church  should  have  the 
testimony  of  Jesus  which  is  the 
spirit  of  prophecy;  and  he  .should 
declare  the  truth,  teach  the  princi- 
ples of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  call  upon  the  people  to  re- 
pent of  their  sins,  and  instruct  them 
in  the  things  of  the  kingdom.  This 
is  the  duty  of  a  prophet  and  con- 
stitutes the  office  and  calling  of  a 
prophet  just  as  much  as  the  declara- 
tion of  things  which  are  yet  to 
come.    Now,  these  things  are  true. 

The  Lord  bless  you  and  guide 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the 
truth.  May  we  seek  for  the  tes- 
timony of  the  Spirit  of  God  and 
become  filled  with  the  testimony  of 
Jesus,  that  we  can  declare  to  the 
world  that  he  is  the  Son  of  God  and 
the  Redeemer  of  mankind ;  and 
when  we  can  do  that  in  words  of 
soberness,  we  are  prophets  and  we 


are  prophetesses.  Now,  remember 
that.  The  Lord  bless  you,  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE. 

The  last  days — 'The  gospel  older  than 
the  law — Successive  dispensations — 
Early  apostasies — The  gospel  great- 
er than  any  book — Need  of  a  living 
Priesthood — A  testimony  to  current 
revelation — Our  particular  interest 
in  the  .outcome  of  the  present  world 
conflict— Principles  of  the  Gospel 
unnumbered. 

Verily  these  are  the  last  days,  the 
days  seen  by  seers,  predicted  by 
prophets,  proclaimed  by  revelators 
throughout  the  ages,  and  affirmed 
by  the  representatives  of  God  in 
this  current  dispensation.  In  these 
days  events  develop  rapidly.  As  on 
the  mimic  stage  action  increases, 
and  in  the  working  out  of  the  plot 
and  plan  developments  occur  with 
bewildering  rapidity  as  the  finale 
approaches,  so  in  the  great  drama 
of  God  on  the  stage  of  the  world, 
the  purpose  of  the  great  Master  is 
being  made  plain  through  the  por- 
tentous events  of  the  current  day. 
By  the  "last  days"  we  do  not  mean 
the  end  of  time.  Such  a  concept 
indeed  is  impossible  to  the  human 
mind.  Duration  is  of  necessity  eter- 
nal, just  as  space  is  unbounded.  So 
with  respect  to  the  gospel  of  Christ 
and  its  effects ;  this  gospel  is  eter- 
nal and  its  extent  unbounded. 

Bible  students  recognize  that 
Israel  lived  under  the  law,  and  that 
Christ  brought  the  gospel  which 
superseded  the  law,  and  they  have 
drawn  a  wholly  incorrect  inference, 
namely,  that  the  law  is  in  fact  older 
than  the  gospel.  Be  it  known  that 
the  gospel,  so  far  as  this  earth  and 
its  inhabitants  are  concerned,  dates 


160 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


from  Adam.  Unto  him  was  taught 
the  necessity  of  faith  in  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  not  merely  mental  be- 
lief, but  abiding,  impelling,  living 
faith,  the  necessity  of  repentance, 
the  indispensability  of  baptism  in 
water  by  immersion  for  the  remis- 
sion of  sins,  the  indispensability  of 
the  bestowal  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
These  principles  and  ordinances 
were  taught  unto  Adam,  adminis- 
tered unto  him,  and  by  him  were 
taught  and  administered  to  others. 
So  was  it  also  with  Enoch,  with 
Noah,  with  Abraham,  with  Moses, 
and  with  the  hosts  of  God's  right- 
eous servants  in  the  early  dispensa- 
tions, who  in  many  instances  laid 
down  their  lives  in  defense  of  the 
principles  which  they  promulgated. 

No,  the  gospel  did  not  begin  upon 
earth  in  the  meridian  of  time. 
There  had  been  gospel  dispensa- 
tions before,  and  there  had  been 
widespread  apostasies  from  the 
truths  declared  in  those  several  dis- 
pensations. The  great  apostasy 
following  the  apostolic  ministry 
was  not  the  first.  There  was  an 
apostasy  in  the  days  of  Noah,  and 
the  people  suffered  therefrom  in 
their  disembodied  state,  until  in  the 
Lord's  due  time  He  went  unto  them 
and  offered  the  principles  of  the 
gospel  by  which  they  could  in  a 
measure  make  amends. 

One  of  the  inherent  weaknesses 
of  the  human  mind  is  that  of  reach- 
ing after  completeness.  We  like 
to  feel  that  we  can  begin  and  end 
a  subject  of  study.  We  are  like 
those  thoughtless  students  in  school 
who  seem  to  think  that  all  that  is 
known  about  the  subject  is  to  be 
found  within  the  covers  of  their 
text  book;  and  a  reprehensible  but 
still  somewhat  popular  custom  pre- 
vails in  some  of  the  colleges  on 
the  part  of  the  classes  who  finish 


the  study  of  some  book,  to  hold  a 
cremation  ceremony  and  burn  up 
the  texts  as  evidence  that  they  have 
no  further  use  for  them ;  they  think 
they  know  the  whole  thing. 

We  have  learned  the  solemn 
truth  that  the  gospel  is  greater 
than  any  book,  greater  than  the 
Bible,  indispensable  though  that 
volume  is ;  greater  than  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  great  as  is  the  mission 
of  that  Scripture,  brought  to  the 
world  in  these  latter  days  by  the 
power  and  inspiration  of  God ; 
greater  than  our  current  volume  of 
modern  revelation,  for  there  is 
more  to  come.  More  is  included  in 
the  gospel  than  all  Scripture  thus 
far  written ;  and  the  living  oracles 
are  established  in  the  Church  to 
give  unto  the  people  from  time  to 
time  the  mind  and  the  will  of  God 
in  addition  to  what  has  been  placed 
upon  record  with  relation  to  the 
ages  past.  We  have  yet  to  find  the 
first  discrepancy,  the  first  instance 
of  inconsistency,  of  lack  of  har- 
mony between  the  Scriptures  that 
are  given  unto  the  people  by  those 
who  speak  in  the  name  and  by  the 
power  of  the  living  God,  and  those 
words  that  are  written  of  similar 
ministry  in  by-gone  times. 

What,  some  may  ask,  are  we  not 
told  that  we  have  the  fulness  of 
the  gospel  ?  Verily  so.  When  Mo- 
roni came  to  announce  to  Joseph 
Smith  the  existence  of  the  record 
from  which  Joseph  was  afterwards 
to  translate,  by  the  gift  and  power 
of  God,  the  volume  known  to  us  as 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  Moroni  de- 
clared unto  him  that  that  book 
contained  the  fulness  of  the  ever- 
lasting gospel,  as  made  known  unto 
the  people  in  their  age;  but  "ful- 
ness" is  relative,  even  as  perfec- 
tion is.  Many  have  stumbled  over 
that  admonition  of  Christ,  "Be  ye 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


161 


perfect  even  as  your  Father  which 
is  in  heaven  is  perfect."  Men  have 
asked :  How  can  that  be  ?  We  are 
not  like  Him ;  we  are  still  mortal, 
with  all  our  frailties.  Even  those 
who  believe  in  the  eternal  progres- 
sion of  man  so  reason,  so  argue, 
and  they  would  make  out  that 
Christ  uttered  fable  and  fiction ;  for 
to  so  admonish  in  the  face  of  im- 
possibility would  be  nothing  less. 
But  Christ  told  the  people  in  that 
day,  and  He  has  repeated  the  ad- 
monition and  injunction  unto  us : 
Be  perfect  in  the  sense  in  which 
your  Father  in  heaven  is  perfect. 
What  man  calls  "perfection"  is 
after  all  comparative.  Plainly  a 
man  in  mortality  cannot  be  perfect 
in  power  nor  in  influence  nor  in 
righteousness,  in  all  details  in  the 
sense  in  which  God  the  Father  and 
His  Son  Jesus  Christ  are  perfect. 
Both  of  Them  are  resurrected  men, 
both  of  Them  have  passed  through 
conditions  strictly  analogous  to 
those  of  mortality  through  which 
we  are  passing,  both  of  whom  have 
died,  both  of  whom  have  been  res- 
urrected, both  of  whom  are  glori- 
fied, supremely  so.  In  the  sense  in 
which  They  are  perfect  you  and  I 
cannot  aspire  to  be  so  here  in  the 
flesh.  But  we  can  be  perfect  if  we 
will  in  our  sphere,  as  They  are 
perfect  in  Their  sphere;  and  per- 
fection in  the  lesser  is  the  great- 
est possible  preparation  for  perfec- 
tion in  the  greater. 

So  with  respect  to  the  fulness  of 
the  gospel.  That  expression  is  rel- 
ative. Unto  the  Nephites  was  giv- 
en a  fulness  of  the  gospel  as  it  ap- 
plied to  them,  embracing  and  em- 
bodying the  fundamental  principles 
and  ordinances  and  blessings  aris- 
ing therefrom,  uncounted  and  in- 
numerable ;  but  nevertheless,  there 
is  much  more  in  the  gospel,  in  its 


possibilities,  in  the  blessings  which 
it  holds  in  store,  that  shall  yet  be 
made  known  unto  man.  We  recog- 
nize the  varied  offices  in  the  priest- 
hood, and  we  know  something  of 
the  functions  connected  with  each, 
but  there  are  functions  of  which  we 
have  not  yet  learned,  but  of  which 
we  shall  learn  hereafter.  The  pow- 
ers and  functions  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood,  as  manifested  in  mor- 
tality today,  are  but  as  the  foot- 
hills compared  with  the  towering 
peaks  beyond.  The  priesthood  is 
eternal,  and  therefore  when  it  is 
conferred  carries  with  it  the  pos- 
sibilities of  this  endless  progres- 
sion, development  and  expansion. 
When  shall  we  have  more  ?  God 
grant  that  we  receive  it  not  until 
we  are  well  prepared  for  it,  for 
many  of  us  have  not  yet  learned 
to  live  up  to  what  we  have  re- 
ceived, and  if  we  receive  and  re- 
ject, we  bring  ourselves  under  con- 
demnation. 

I  have  met  here  and  there  a  dis- 
gruntled one,  one  who  is  saying: 
Why  don't  we  receive  further  reve- 
lation from  God  today?  We  are 
receiving  it  day  by  day.  I  speak 
of  what  I  know  when  I  say  unto 
you,  if  ever  the  Church  of  Christ 
was  led  by  a  prophet  enjoying  com- 
munion with  God,  inspiration  from 
the  source  of  divine  revelation, 
from  heaven  direct — and  none  of  us 
can  doubt  such  leadership  in  the 
past — this  day  witnesses  that  con- 
dition. I  testify  unto  you  that  the 
man  who  stands  at  the  head  of  this 
Church  is  the  mouthpiece  of  God 
unto  His  people,  and  if  we  fail  to 
heed  his  words,  his  admonitions, 
his  instructions  given  unto  us  as 
they  have  been,  and  are,  in  love  and 
nevertheless  with  firmness  and  with 
no  uncertainty  of  tone,  we  bring 
ourselves  under  condemnation. 


162 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


We  recognize  in  the  events  of 
the  present  day  the  very  conditions 
that  were  foreseen  and  foretold. 
Do  yon  not  remember  how  anxious 
and  eager  the  eleven  apostles  were 
of  old  to  win  from  Christ  some  def- 
inite expression  as  to  when  He 
would  come?  Before  His  cruci- 
fixion, before  His  betrayal,  the 
Twelve  seemed  to  be  equally  con- 
cerned, whatever  may  have  been 
the  personal  condition  of  the  mind 
of  Judas,  and  they  asked  Him : 
"When  shall  these  things  be,  and 
what  shall  be  the  sign  of  thy  com- 
ing?" The  Lord  warned  them 
against  men  who  would  set  dates, 
and  that  warning  has  never  been 
abrogated,  but,  on  the  contrary,  has 
been  repeated  and  emphasized.  I 
say  unto  you,  beware  of  the  men 
who  undertake  to  set  the  year  and 
the  day  in  which  the  Christ  shall 
come,  for  that  has  not  been  revealed 
unto  man.  Nevertheless,  Christ  did 
give  certain  signs  and  conditions 
which  would  indicate  the  imminence 
of  His  coming,  and  one  of  the  most 
remarkable  was  this :  He  told  of 
wars ;  He  told  of  the  awful  trag- 
edies that  should  come  upon  the 
earth,  and,  with  respect  to  all  these, 
He  said  "the  end  is  not  yet."  Then 
having  explained  further  He  said : 
"And  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom 
shall  be  preached  in  all  the  world 
for  a  witness  unto  all  nations ;  and 
then  shall  the  end  come." 

This  Church  has  been  preaching 
that  gospel.  It  has  not  yet  com- 
pleted its  commission.  It  was  so 
engaged  most  earnestly,  and  is  en- 
gaged most  devoutly  to  the  extent, 
I  believe,  of  its  means,  condition, 
and  attendant  circumstances.  Be- 
fore the  outbreak  of  this  great  con- 
flict it  maintained  a  standing  army 
of  approximately  two  thousand,  a 
very  small  army  compared  with  the 


needs,  but  approximately  two  thou- 
sand men  in  the  world,  crying  re- 
pentance, warning  the  people  of  the 
calamities  that  were  to  come,  cry- 
ing: "Come  out  of  her,,  that  ye  par- 
take not  of  her  plagues."  Many 
heard  and  believed  and  are  here. 
Many  heard  and  scoffed,  and  have 
remained.  Now,  not  all  the  good 
were  taken,  and  not  all  who  were 
left  are  bad ;  but  there  were  those 
who  had  faith  enough  to  lay  hold 
on  the  blessing  placed  within  their 
reach,  and  to  come  out  into  this 
land  of  relative  safety,  and  of  great 
blessing,  the  land  in  which  the 
Lord  has  spoken  and  from  which 
has  gone  out  the  word  of  God  unto 
the  nations. 

I  would  have  the  Latter-day 
Saints  consider  the  fact  that  of  all 
peoples  on  the  face  of  the  earth  we 
are  peculiarly  interested  in  the  out- 
come of  this  struggle.  Therefore 
we  have  a  sound  foundation  in  this 
for  our  patriotism,  for  our  sacri- 
fice, for  our  efforts  in  behalf  of 
this  government,  for  our  unquali- 
fied allegiance  to  the  Constitution 
of  the  United  States,  which  is  ver- 
itably the  scripture  of  the  nation ; 
for  upon  this  Church  has  been  laid 
the  commission  to  preach  the  gospel 
in  every  nation  as  a  witness.  How 
can  we  do  this  when  the  doors  of 
the  nations  are  barred  and  bolted? 
To  discharge  this  commission  we 
must  have  freedom ;  there  must  be 
freedom  of  speech,  freedom  of  the 
press,  and  above  all,  freedom  of 
conscience,  ever  remembering  that 
freedom  means  real  liberty  in 
righteousness,  and  not  license  to 
do  wrong.  Therefore  we  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  praying,  and  not 
only  in  words  but  in  deeds,  that  vic- 
tory may  attend  the  arms  that  have 
been  taken  up  in  the  vindication  of 
the  rights  of  men,  that  we  may 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


163 


have  access  to  the  nations,  that  we 
may  lay  before  them  the  saving 
principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  thus  discharge  the  high 
commission  that  has  been  placed 
upon  us. 

This  gospel  is  broad  enough,  and 
deep  enough,  and  of  such  towering 
heights  as  to  surpass  the  powers  of 
the  greatest  mind  to  comprehend, 
and  yet  so  simple  in  its  funda- 
mentals as  to  satisfy  the  honest  in- 
quiry of  the  child.  We  speak  of 
faith,  repentance,  baptism,  and  the 
laying  on  of  hands,  as  the  first 
principles  and  ordinances  of  the 
gospel.  We  have  gone  so  far  as 
to  number  them — the  first,  the  sec- 
ond, the  third  and  fourth  princi- 
ples, and  the  first  and  the  second 
ordinances.  Are  there  others?  Ver- 
ily, verily,  yes.  What,  a  fifth?  Yes, 
and  a  sixth,  and  a  seventh,  aye,  and 
a  tenth,  and  a  hundredth  and  a 
thousandth.  There  is  no  end  to 
the  principles  of  truth  embodied 
in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
yet  each  one  is  dependent  upon  the 
fundamentals,  and  each  one  grows 
out  of  those  that  have  been  given 
before. 

May  the  Lord  open  our  minds 
and  expand  our  souls,  and  give  us 
the  desire  to  live  up  to  what  we 
have,  that  we  may  receive  the 
more ;  for  "We  believe  all  that  God 
has  revealed,  all  that  He  does  now 
reveal,  and  we  believe  that  He  will 
yet  reveal  many  great  and  import- 
ant things  pertaining  to  the  king- 
dom of  God."  Be  we  ready,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

Increased  interest  in  the  things  of 
God — Conditions  that  need  a  warn- 
ing word — Amusements  conducted 
for  money  dangerous  to  youth — A 
knowledge    of    God    and    his  Son 


Jesus  Christ  the  best  gift  that  can 
be  bestowed  on  children — Some 
dangers  to  provide  against — The 
Priesthood  of  God  the  most  pre- 
cious thing  in  the  world — Conserva- 
tion now  enjoined  in  all  things,  but 
let  us  not  forget  to  conserve  our 
young  manhood  and  womanhood — 
Foundation  of  character  to  be  laid 
in  the  home. 

We  approach  the  close  of  a  great 
conference.  We  have  come  up  to 
be  fed,  and  we  have  received  the 
bread  of  life.  I  can  scarcely  hope, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  able 
to  add  anything  of  profit  to  the 
splendid  instruction  and  admonition 
and  counsel  that  have  come  to  us 
during  the  sessions  of  this  confer- 
ence. I  feel  certain  that  I  could 
not  give  to  you  any  principles  of 
the  gospel  which  have  not  received 
some  attention.  With  the  help  of 
our  Father's  Spirit,  however,  I 
should  be  pleased  if  I  could  make 
some  application  of  the  great  truths 
of  the  gospel  as  they  have  been 
presented  to  us. 

During  the  past  year  I  have  had 
the  high  privilege  of  going  about 
among  the  people,  participating 
with  them  in  their  meetings  and  en- 
joying with  them  some  of  the  func- 
tions of  the  Church.  I  have  had 
some  little  opportunity  for  observa- 
tion. My  observation  is  that  the 
people  of  God  are  trying  more  day 
by  day  to  live  according  to  his 
word  and  to  keep  his  command- 
ments. The  larger  percentage  in 
attendance  at  the  conferences  of 
the  Church,  as  they  are  held  in  the 
various  stakes,  and  in  the  wards  of 
the  Church,  give  rather  striking 
evidence  of  an  increased  interest  in 
the  things  that  pertain  to  our  Fath- 
er's kingdom.  An  increase  of  at- 
tention to  the  various  duties  which 
are  imposed  upon  those  who  hold 
the  priesthood  and  also  upon  those 


164 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


who  work  in  the  various  organiza- 
tions of  the  Church,  corroborates 
the  notion  that  we  have  that  the 
people  are  in  very  deed  trying  more 
and  more  to  conform  their  lives  to 
the  pattern  laid  down  by  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world.  These  obser- 
vations bring  much  of  encourage- 
ment and  satisfaction  to  the  gener- 
al authorities  of  the  Church,  as  I 
am  sure  they  bring  encouragement 
to  all  of  the  people. 

We  are  able  to  observe,  however, 
from  time  to  time,  some  few  con- 
ditions that  seem  to  deserve  a 
warning  word  and  a  little  caution, 
and  without  being  guilty  of  paint- 
ing a  picture  that  might  be  consid- 
ered black  or  gloomy,  I  would  call 
to  the  attention  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  a  few  things  which,  I  think, 
deserve  their  immediate  considera- 
tion and  which  if  treated  properly 
may  bring  something  of  increased 
devotion  on  the  part  of  a  large 
number  of  the  members  of  the 
Church. 

Perhaps  because  my  work  during 
the  past  ten  or  twelve  years  has 
been  largely  devoted  to  the  young 
people  and  their  interests,  my  heart 
goes  out  particularly  to  them.  I 
never  can  forget  them.  I  always 
see  in  the  young  the  future  of  the 
Church,  of  the  State  and  of  the  Na- 
tion. I  always  look  to. the  children 
as  the  hope  of  Israel.  They  draw 
out  from  me  the  best  that  is  within 
me  and  the  tenderest  thoughts  and 
the  greatest  desire  to  be  of  service, 
and  as  I  see  throughout  some  of 
the  stakes  of  the  Church  conditions 
which,  in  my  opinion,  militate 
against  their  welfare,  against  their 
growth,  against  their  accomplish- 
ment of  the  great  purposes  that  the 
Father  of  us  all  has  in  store  for 
them,  I  feel  that  it  is  my  duty  to 
call    attention   to    some    of  these 


things  in  the  hope  that  they  may 
be  rectified. 

Let  me  give  you  an  example : 
Only  a  week  or  two  ago  I  was  in 
one  of  the  stakes  of  the  Church 
where  a  bishop  reported  to  me  that 
within  the  confines  of  his  ward 
a  resort  given  over  to  swimming 
and  dancing,  refreshments  and  oth- 
er forms  of  amusement,  in  attend- 
ance upon  which  there  had  been 
counted  upon  one  Sabbath  day 
more  than  four  hundred  automo- 
biles loaded  with  people,  and  par- 
ticularly young  people;  a  resort 
where  the  children  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  and  the  children  of  oth- 
er good  people  were  enticed  by  the 
things  that  are  made  to  appeal  to 
them;  a  resort  kept  and  promoted 
by  a  man  who  has  at  heart  no  pur- 
pose except  to  make  money  and 
who  cares  not  a  farthing  for  the 
morals  and  the  welfare  of  young 
men  and  young  women ;  and  by  the 
way,  that  is  not  an  uncommon  thing 
in  the  amusements  of  this  day. 
There  was  a  time  when  the  amuse- 
ments and  the  entertainment^ 
among  our  people  were  conducted 
for  the  benefit  of  the  people  them- 
eslves.  Unfortunately,  they  have 
now  in  some  measure,  at  least  in 
too  large  a  measure,  become  com- 
mercialized, so  that  the  only  thing 
to  which  attention  is  paid  is  the 
making  of  money,  irrespective  of 
the  fact  that  disgrace  and  dishonor 
may  be  brought  upon  those  who 
patronize  such  places.  The  exam- 
ple I  cite  to  you  is,  I  believe,  an 
exceptional  and  an  exaggerated 
case,  but  I  know,  as  you  know,  that 
there  are  within  the  Church  other 
places  that  tend  to  lead  our  young 
people  away  from  their  duty,'  from 
the  path  of  integrity,  wholesome- 
ness,  purity,  morality  that  our  fath- 
ers and  our  mothers  have  bidden 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS. 


165 


them  tread.  So,  my  brethren  and  my 
sisters,  I  appeal  to  you  to  have 
care  for  your  children  and  I  ap- 
peal to  the  boys  and  the  girls  of 
this  Church  to  live  according  to  the 
plan  of  life  that  is  laid  down  for 
them  in  this  great  and  beautiful 
gospel  of  ours. 

If  we  can  only  bring  our  boys 
and  girls  to  know  and  feel  the 
depth  and  the  height  and  the 
breadth  of  this  great  plan  of  life 
which  is  given  to  us  by  the  Savior 
of  the  world,  they  will  be  safe.  But, 
are  we  making  them  feel  it?  Are 
we  giving  them  the  same  firm  tes- 
timony of  the  truth  that  has  come 
to  us  ?  Are  we  implanting  in  their 
souls  a  keen  desire  to  live  the  gos- 
pel as  they  ought  to  live  it?  We 
are  not  implanting  in  their  hearts 
that  desire  when  we  permit  them 
to  partake  of  the  amusements  and 
the  sins  and  the  accompanying  dan- 
gers that  come  to  them  from  the 
world.  When  we  let  them  think 
that  it  is  more  important  for  them 
to  be  in  fashion  and  in  style  than 
it  is  for  them  to  keep  the  command- 
ments of  God  we  are  giving  them 
the  opportunity  of  straying  away 
and  of  becoming  estranged  from 
these  great  truths  and  from  this 
great  plan  of  life  and  salvation.  And 
so  I  tell  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  there  never  was  a  time 
attendant  with  greater  danger  to 
the  youth  of  Israel  than  the  pres- 
ent time.  There  never  was  a  time 
when  there  were  more  allurements 
for  them  to  be  led  away  from  the 
truth.  There  never  was  a  time 
when  it  was  harder  to  make  boys 
and  girls  believe  and  feel  that  the 
greatest  thing  in  their  lives  is  the 
gospel,  than  today.  That  is  my  ob- 
servation. It  is  my  conviction. 
And  it  needs  all-  of  our  courage, 
all  of  our  strength  and  considera- 


tion and  attention  to  keep  our  boys 
and  girls  in  the  path  of  truth. 

I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ.  I  am  proud 
of  it.  Never  was  my  heart  so  lifted 
up  in  just  pride,  I  think,  as  it 
was  in  this  great  assembly  yester- 
day when  the  President  of  our 
Church  bore  that  striking  testimony 
of  truth  that  went  into  the  soul  of 
every  man  and  every  woman  who 
heard  him.  I  am  proud  to  be  iden- 
tified with  this  great  work.  I  am 
proud  to  bear  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  God  help  me  to  be  worthy 
of  it.  I  want  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  to  teach  your  boys  and  your 
girls  to  be  proud  of  that  name, 
prouder  of  it  than  all  else  in  the 
world  that  may  come  to  them.  It 
is  their  salvation.  They  may  hanker 
after  the  things  of  this  world,  they 
may  spend  their  lives  in  trying  to 
attain  the  comforts  and  the  luxuries 
and  the  riches  of  this  life,  but  I 
tell  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  they  will  die  in  spirit  if  they 
do  not  have  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  in  their  hearts,  and  all  their 
lives  will  have  been  spent  in  vain, 
and  all  their  possessions  will  be  as 
naught  and  their  whole  lives  will 
be  one  great  regret  and  one  great 
sorrow  to  them. 

Therefore,  let  us  give  to  these 
boys  and  girls  of  ours  the  testi- 
monies of  the  truth  that  we  have. 
Let  us  be  careful  of  them.  As 
President  Lund  said  in  his  address, 
let  us  have  confidence  in  them,  but 
let  us  not  abuse  that  confidence. 
Boys  and  girls  need  care.  They 
have  not  arrived  at  the  age  of  ma- 
turity that  enables  them  always  to 
act  wisely  for  themselves.  They 
need  direction,  they  need  super- 
vision, particularly  in  their  play. 
They  can  not  always  be  trusted  to 
do  the  thing  that  is  best  for  them 


166 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


when  they  are  on  their  own  respon- 
sibility. 

If  I  may  without  giving  offense, 
I  should  like  to  suggest  to  some  of 
you  fathers  and  mothers  that  you 
be  careful  about  giving  to  your 
boys  and  girls  the  unrestricted,  un- 
supervised use  of  your  automobiles 
and  your  conveyances.  Time  after 
time,  as  I  have  traveled  over  our 
roads  in  the  night  time  have  I  seen 
automobiles  loaded  down  with  boys 
and  girls  in  positions  that'  would 
have  shamed  their  parents  and  that 
will  some  day  be  a  shame  to  them, 
I  tell  you  we  need  to  be  careful. 
We  need  to  have  charge  and  con- 
cern of  these  precious  souls  given 
into  our  care  and  our  keeping,  and 
that  need  is  only  emphasized  by 
modern  times.  Thousands  and 
thousands  of  the  boys  have  been 
called  away  from  the  farms.  The 
farmers  will  be  obliged  to  hire 
trnsient  help.  Hundreds  of  men  will 
come  to  our  homes  in  order  to  do 
the  work  that  has  to  be  done.  We 
shall  welcome  their  aid,  but  we  will 
beware  of  their  influence.  Let  me 
caution  you,  let  me  caution  you 
never  to  permit  your  boys  and  your 
girls,  if  you  can  help  it,  to  asso- 
ciate with  men  and  women  whose 
influence  you  are  not  sure  is  good. 

And  I  want  to  say  to  my  breth- 
ren, my  younger  brethren,  those 
young  men  who  are  now  just  ap- 
proaching the  prime  of  life,  that  it 
is  incumbent  upon  them  that  they 
learn  to  appreciate  the  priesthood 
of  God.  Thousands  of  them  have 
had  this  holy  priesthood  given  to 
them.  Some  think  that  it  is  cheap 
because  it  comes  to  so  many.  I 
tell  you  it  is  the  most  precious  thing 
in  this  world,  and  if  you  will  only 
come  to  appreciate  it  and  know  its 
full  meaning,  you  will  agree  that  it 


exceeds  in  value  all  else  that  has 
ever  been  given  to  you,  and  it  will 
be  of  greater  strength  and  greater 
joy  and  greater  satisfaction  to  you 
than  anything  else.  Boys  appreci- 
ate the  priesthood  of  God.  It  is  an 
honor  to  be  a  deacon.  It  is  a  high 
honor  to  be  a  priest  and  to  serve 
in  the  various  functions  which  are 
given  to  that  order  in  the  priest- 
hood. It  is  a  great  and  mighty 
and  ennobling  honor  to  receive  the 
holy  Melchizedek  priesthood  and  be 
ordained  an  elder.  Never  do  one 
thing  in  your  lives  that  will  degrade 
you  in  that  priesthood.  I  believe 
that  no  one  can  receive  that  priest- 
hood and  fail  to  honor  it,  without 
being  held  accountable  in  the  sight 
of  our  Father.  Indeed  I  sometimes 
think  it  would  be  better  if  some  who 
have  lightly  thrown  aside  this  great 
high  privilege  and  honor  and  op- 
portunity and  authority  that  has 
come  to  them  if  they  had  never  re- 
ceived it.  Their  condemnation,  I 
fear,  will  be  all  the  more  severe. 

We  are  talking  a  lot  now  about 
liberty  bonds  and  we  are  talking  a 
great  deal  about  conservation  of 
food,  and  saving  wheat,  and  saving 
all  the  products  of  the  land,  and  it 
is  well  that  we  should.  We  be- 
lieve in  it.  We  know  it  is  neces- 
sary, but  I  want  to  say  to  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  there  is 
nothing  in  this  wide  world  that  we 
need  to  conserve  quite  so  much  as 
the  manhood  and  the  womanhood 
of  the  nation.  Talk  about  the  value 
of  wheat,  talk  about  the  value  of 
war  munitions,  they  don't  compare 
with  the  men,  and  the  women,  too, 
who  go  to  make  up  the  state  and 
the  nation.  You  can  not  have  a 
great  nation  without  great  men  and 
women,  and  while  it  is  not  possible 
for  every  one  of  the  citizens  of  a 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


'  167 


great  nation  to  achieve  high  places 
of  distinction,  this  I  always  remem- 
ber, as  was  once  said  on  this  sub- 
ject by  a  great  writer,  that  while 
we  may  not  all  be  Washingtons, 
we  can  all  be  such  men  and 
such  women  as  will  uphold  and 
sustain  a  Washington  in  the 
path  of  duty  and  the  way  of 
glory.  We  can  all  teach  our  sons 
and  daughters  the  fundamental 
principles  that  underlie  true  citi- 
zenship, true  honor,  true  loyalty, 
and  let  me  tell  you  that  the  place 
to  teach  loyalty,  as  we  sometimes 
say  about  charity,  begins  at  home. 
The  place  to  teach  all  boys  and 
girls  the  value  of  citizenship  and 
the  value  of  being  loyal  and  honor- 
able in  their  duties  and  obligations 
to  state  and  country  is  at  home  by 
teaching  them  to  receive  and  honor 
and  obey  the  people  who  are  placed 
to  preside  over  them.  Never  say 
a  word  that  would  detract  from 
the  influence  of  the  bishop  or  of  the 
president  of  the  stake  or  of  any  of 
the  elders  of  the  people,  and  I 
promise  you  your  boys  and  your 
girls  will  be  good  citizens  of  the 
land. 

God  help  us,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, to  be  true  to  our  obligations. 
Help  us  to  be  true  to  the  high  name 
that  we  bear.  God  bless  us  that 
we  may  indeed  be  the  Church  of 
Christ,  that  we  may  have  his  Spirit 
to  go  out  from  our  midst  among 
our  fellows  in  the  land  to  convince 
them  of  the  greatness  and  the  ef- 
ficacy of  the  work  in  which  we  are 
engaged.  And  help  us  to  so  live 
that  the  sermon  of  our  lives  may 
preach  the  word  of  God  to  the 
whole  wide  world,  is  my  prayer,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

Elder  Horace  S.  Ensign  sang  a 
sacred  solo  :  "The  Shepherd  King." 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN. 

Vivid  impression  of  the  teachings  of 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith — Appre- 
ciation of  the  doctrines  and  princi- 
ples of  the  Gospel  as  taught  by  a 
Latter-day  Saint  mother — Prayer 
the  strongest  factor  for  good  that 
can  come  into  the  life  of  a  boy — A 
desire  that  the  speaker  may  merit 
the  love  and  friendship  in  some  de- 
gree the  Latter-day  Saints  had  for 
his  father,  the  late  President 
Francis  M.  Lyman. 

It  is  new  and  strange  for  me  to 
occupy  this  place.  I  wish  President 
Smith,  in  his  eloquent  and  forceful 
way,  had  spoken  during  the  few 
minutes  left  for  me,  and  had  given 
me  six  months  in  which  to  prepare 
a  few  remarks. 

While  in  Tooele  recently  I  visited 
the  same  church  building  and  saw 
the  same  seat  in  which  I  sat  as  a 
child  many  years  ago  and  listened 
to  the  powerful  and  eloquent  words 
of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith.  Such 
was  the  impression  he  made  that  I 
remember  what  he  said  then  as 
clearly  as  I  remember  what  I  have 
heard  him  say  at  this  conference. 
From  that  time  in  my  childhood  to 
this  hour  I  have  heard  no  public  ut- 
terance of  his  that  was  not  thril- 
lingly  eloquent.  Can  you  wonder 
then  that,  being  new  in  this  po- 
sition, I  wanted  him  to  speak  in  my 
place  ? 

Who  am  I  ?  Why  should  I  be  here  ? 
My  life,  my  work,  my  attention 
have  been  .directed  almost  ex- 
clusively to  educational  work.  I 
have  not  done  service  as  a  regular 
missionary.  I  do  not  stand  before 
you,  therefore,  as  a  preacher,  but 
merely  as  a  "Mormon"  boy  and  all 
I  can  do  is  say  a  few  blunt  words 
in  defense  of  my  religion  and  my 
people,  as  I  have  done  during  my 


168 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


college  life  and  at  other  times  when 
separated  from  you — my  people. 

I,  too,  am  pleased  to  bear  test- 
imony to  the  truth  and  .divinity  of 
the  remarks  that  have  been  made  at 
this  conference.  The  words  of 
Brother  Stephen  L.  Richards  con- 
cerning the  welfare  of  our  sons  and 
daughters — our  most  precious  re- 
source— made  a  marked  impression 
on  my  mind.  Seven  years  of  my 
life  have  been  spent  in  eastern  col- 
leges and  during  that  time,  .sep- 
arated as  I  was  from  my  kindred 
and  from  the  Church,  I  had  nearly 
all  the  temptations  to  resist.  The 
teachings  of  the  Church  and  the 
training  of  my  good  "Mormon" 
mother  gave  me  strength.  I  prayed 
as  she  taught  me  to  pray,  I  believed 
in  God  and  in  his  guidance,  I  began 
every  day's  labor  with  an  earnest 
prayer  for  help,  I  closed  each  day 
with  an  expression  of  gratitude  to 
my  Heavenly  Father  for  his  guid- 
ance. Thus  was  I  able,  when  sur- 
round with  temptation, to  make  my 
life,  conform  with  the  teachings  of 
the  Church  and  to  live  in  accor- 
dance with  the  wishes  of  my  excel- 
lent parents. 

Prayer,  as  I  see  it,  is  the  strong- 
est factor  for  good  that  can  come 
into  the  life  of  a  boy.  Unfortunate 
the  youth  who  has  to  face  the 
temptations  of  the  world  if  in  his 
childhood  he  has  not  learned  to 
pray.  If  your  soldier  son  learned 
this  childhood  lesson  at  your  knee, 
rest  assured  his  faith  in  God  will 
keep  him  clean.  If  he  returns  he'll 
do  so  in  the  strength  and 
majesty  and  power  of  his  clean 
manhood.  If  he  gives  his  life  to  the 
glorious  cause  of  human  liberty  he, 
by  so  doing,  adds  undying  luster  to 
your  family  name. 

I  have  never  been  sufficiently 


conceited  to  think  that  I  deserve  to 
stand  in  this  sacred  place  that  was 
occupied  so  recently  by  my  distin- 
guished father.  His  heart  is  aglow 
with  delight,  if  he  knows  with  what 
intensity  many  of  you  have  ex- 
pressed your  congratulations  to  me 
for  his  sake.  My  fondest  hope  is 
that  as  a  member  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  I  may  merit  in  some  de- 
gree the  precious  love  and  friend- 
ship you  had  for  him. 

May  our  heavenly  Father  make 
us  better  and  happier  from  day  to 
day,  I  pray  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

I  do  not  purpose  to  detain  you 
long,  but  my  mind  has  been  partic- 
ularly awakened  on  one  or  two  sub- 
jects which  I  would  like  to  call  to 
the  attention  of  this  vast  assembly 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

THE  CRIME  OF  ADULTERY  AND  UN- 
CHASTITY 

I  wish  to  announce  to  you  and 
call  to  your  attention  the  fact  that 
the  next  to  the  greatest  sin  and 
crime  that  can  be  committed,  and 
for  which  the  penalty  in  the  law 
of  God  is  just  the  same,  is  the  crime 
of  adultery  and  unchastity.  Some- 
times we  hear  rumors  and  reports 
from  various  parts  of  our  country 
that  are  heart-rending  and  awful 
if  they  are  true,  and  that  is  in  re- 
gard to  the  lightness  in  which  the 
principles  of  chastity  are  held  by 
some  of  our  young  people,  and  in 
some  respects  are  lightly  passed 
over  by  those  who  ought  to  be 
teachers  in  regard  to  these  princi- 
ples, and  who  ought  to  instil  into 
the  hearts  of  the  youth  the  princi- 
ples of  virtue  and  of  chastity. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  P.  SMITH. 


169 


The  Lord  Almighty  affixed  in  the 
law  of  .Moses  the  penalty  of  death 
for  the  crime  of  murder  or  the 
shedding  of  blood,  and  the  Lord 
Almighty  affixed  the  same  penalty 
of  death  upon  the  crime  of  adultery 
and  unchastity.  I  hope  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  will  hold  in  mind 
the  fact  that  there  is  no  greater 
crime  that  men  and  women  can 
commit,  except  the  crime  of  mur- 
der itself,  than  that  of  adultery  and 
unchastity;  and  let  this  be  a  pre- 
cept to  be  taught  and  instilled  into 
the  minds  of  our  children,  and  to 
our  children's  children  henceforth, 
with  all  earnestness  and  fidelity  on 
the  part  of  those  who  are  called  to 
be  watchmen  upon  the  towers  of 
Zion. 

WHAT  IS  LIBERTY? 

We  have  been  talking,  and  we 
do  talk  very  much,  about  this  won- 
derful, this  glorious,  this  most 
choice  principle  of  liberty,  for 
which  we  are  willing  to  sacrifice  all 
that  we  possess  in  a  worldly  sense, 
and  that  we  are  also  willing  to  add 
in  that  sacrifice  our  own  lives  to 
defend  it.  What  is  it?  What  is 
this  liberty  for  which  we  are  will- 
ing to  fight,  for  which  we  are  will- 
ing to  sacrifice  life  and  all  that  we 
possess  in  the  world?  Let  me  tell 
you.  It  is  simply  the  liberty  of 
all  mankind  to  worship  God  in 
righteousness ;  that  is  what  it  is ; 
for  all  mankind  to  have  the  liberty 
to  do  right,  the  liberty  to  do  good, 
the  liberty  to  pursue  happiness,  in 
honor,  in  virtue  and  in  uprightness. 
But  it  cannot  for  one  moment  de- 
scend in  any  degree  to  license  or 
to  infringement  upon  the  rights  of 
others.  No  man  has  any  liberty 
to  impose  upon  his  brother,  to  rob 
or  to  steal,  to  lie  or  to  bear  false 
witness,  or  to  injure  or  wrong  his 


fellowmen.  When  we  are  talking 
of  this  great  and  glorious  principle 
of  liberty  it  is  that  we  may  be  free 
to  worship  God  and  to  love  him 
with  all  our  hearts  and  minds  and 
strength,  and  to  love  our  neighbor 
as  ourselves,  and  to  protect  the 
principles  of  virtue  and  honor 
throughout  all  the  world.  That  is 
the  liberty  that  we  are  looking  for 
and  that  we  are  willing  to  fight  for. 

We  are  not  trying  to  defend  the 
liberty  of  mankind  to  be  drunken, 
to  be  debauchees,  to  advocate  crime, 
to  interfere  with  the  rights  of  oth- 
ers. This  is  not  liberty.  The  law 
of  nations,  as  well  as  the  law  of 
God,  prohibits  it,  and  it  cannot  ex- 
ist except  it  exist  contrary  to  the 
laws  of  righteousness  and  contrary 
to  the  principles  of  liberty  that  we 
are  willing  to  fight  for  and  that  we 
are  striving  for. 

GOD  NEITHER  DESIGNS   NOR  IS  THE 
CAUSE  OF  WICKEDNESS  AND  CRIME 

I  do  not  want  this  congregation, 
or  any  of  the  congregations  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  to  conceive  the 
idea,  or  to  entertain  it  for  one  mo- 
ment, that  the  true  and  living  God 
— the  Father  of  our  Lord  and 
Savior  Jesus  Christ — who  so  loved 
the  world  that  he  sent  his  Only  Be- 
gotten Son  into  the  world,  to  bleed, 
to  die,  and  to  be  sacrificed  for  the 
sin  of  the  world,  the  Father  of  our 
spirits,  he  who  loves  his  children, 
is  in  any  degree  responsible  for  the 
carnage,  the  bloodshed,  the  crime 
and  the  infamy  that  is  today  being 
perpetrated  because  of  war,  or  any 
other  cause,  throughout  the  world. 
God  is  not  responsible  for  it.  I 
want  you  to  let  this  sink  into  your 
hearts  and  remember  it.  God  does 
not  design  wickedness  or  crime  in 
the  midst  of  his  children,  neither  is 
he  the  cause  of  it.  One  of  the  apos- 


170 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ties  said :  "Let  no  man  say  when  he 
is  tempted,  I  am  tempted  of  God : 
for  God  cannot  be  tempted  with 
evil ;  neither  tempteth  he  any  man. 
But  every  man  is  tempted,  when  he 
is  drawn  away  of  his  own  lust,  and 
enticed."  The  Lord  God  Almighty 
has  no  pleasure  whatever  in  the 
nations  of  the  earth  contending  one 
with  another  and  destroying  them- 
selves. All  this  is  contrary  to  the 
will  of  God,  contrary  to  his  pur- 
poses, and  contrary  to  his  love, 
and  to  the  very  nature  of  the 
true  and  the  living  God.  He 
loveth  his  children ;  he  desires 
them  to  have  life  everlast- 
ing and  nOt  death.  I  pity  the 
expressions  that  I  have  heard  so 
many  times  in  the  public  print  from 
ignorant  preachers  and  some  poor 
mothers  whose  sons  have  been  sac- 
rificed at  the  front :  " Why  does 
God  permit  it?  Why  has  God  per- 
mitted my  son  to  be  slain  ?  Why 
does  God  permit  the  war  that  is  ex- 
isting today  in  all  the  nations  of  the 
earth?"  The  answer  is:  Because 
the  nations  of  the  earth,  together 
with  their  leaders,  exercise  their 
freedom,  the  freedom  of  their 
agency,  to  pursue  their  wicked 
course,  which  results  in  war 
and  in  the  death  and  destruction 
that  is  being  perpetrated  today 
throughout  the  nations  of  the  earth. 
The  Lord  has  no  pleasure  in  it, 
and  I  do  not  want  the  Latter-day 
Saints  to  conceive  the  idea  that 
God  is  responsible,  or  to  charge 
him  with  the  crime  of  desiring  the 
destruction  of  his  children.  It  is 
not  true ! 

GOD  LOVES  AND  IS  THE  AUTHOR  OF 
RIGHTEOUSNESS  AND  PEACE 

I  just  wanted  to  say  those 
few  words  to  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
The  Lord  loveth  peace.    The  doc- 


trine of  the  Savior  of  men  was 
"Peace  on  earth,  good  will  to  men," 
love,  love  unfeigned.  The  great- 
est of  all  the  commandments  that 
was  ever  given  to  the  children  of 
men  is :  "Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord 
thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with 
all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind. 
This  is  the  first  and  great  command- 
ment. And  the  second  is  like  unto 
it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as 
thyself.  On  these  two  command- 
ments hang  all  the  law  and  the 
prophets."  If  in  the  central  nations 
of  the  earth  this  spirit  of  love  had 
existed,  this  principle  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ ;  if  this  glorious  ad- 
monition had  been  taken  to  heart 
by  the  rulers  of  those  nations,  there 
never  would  have  been  any  war, 
there  never  would  have  been  any 
bloodshed,  there  never  would  have 
been  the  devastation  and  ruin  and 
evil  conditions  that  exist  today.  It 
is  because  the  people  of  the  world 
have  not  the  gospel.  It  is  because 
they  do  not  obey  the  truth.  It  is 
because  they  have  not  Christ,  and 
therefore  they  are  left  to  them- 
selves, and  the  results  that  we  see 
are  the  consequences  of  their  own 
misbehavior  and  of  their  own  wick- 
ed deeds. 

CLOSING  ADMONITIONS 

I  thank  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  for  your  attendance  at  this 
conference.  You  have  shown  your 
integrity,  your  love  for  the  work 
in  which  you  are  engaged,  your  re- 
spect for  this  great  occasion  of 
meeting  together  on  the  6th  of 
April,  in  commemoration  of  the  day 
on  which  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  was  organ- 
ized. We  want  you  to  continue  to 
entertain  this  faith,  this  confidence, 
this  love,  this  deep  interest  in  the 
work  in  which   you  are  engaged, 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 


171 


that  at  every  recurrence  of  this  oc- 
casion, and  of  the  semi-annual  con- 
ference of  the  Church,  you  may  be 
punctual  in  attendance  at  the  con- 
ferences and  show  your  willing- 
ness to  uphold  and  to  sustain  the 
work  throughout  all  the  country 
where  you  dwell. 

I  feel  to  extend  my  gratitude 
and  my  thanks  to  my  brethren  who 
have  spoken  the  words  of  truth  and 
of  righteousness,  and  who  have 
given  exhortation  that  an  angel 
from  the  presence  of  God  could  not 
have  given  more  clearly,  more  in- 
tently and  fervently  from  the  heart 
than  our  brethren  have  given  it  to 
you  during  our  conference.  Let  us 
prize  their  words,  their  admoni- 
tions; let  us  hearken  to  their  cau- 
tions, to  their  warnings,  and  to 
their  exhortations  to  us  to  observe 
the  principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  live  like  Latter-day 
Saints — more  especially  like  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  than  like  some  "Mor- 
mons" live.  I  want  to  say  to  my 
dear  Brother  Richard,  when  he 
speaks  of  that  mother  of  his  and 
calls  her  a  "Mormon"  mother,  he 
means  well,  but  really  she  was  a 
Latter-day  Saint.  I  knew  her. 
( Laughter. ) 

I  also  desire  to  express  my  pleas- 
ure and  gratitude  and  '  thanks  to 
those  who  have  made  music  for  us, 
our  soloists,  our  singers  of  duets, 
the  choir,  and  the  leaders  of  our 
music.    We  thank  them  for  their 


efforts,  and  we  rejoice  and  enjoy 
exceedingly  their  harmony,  for  it 
is  a  part  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  the  true  spirit  of  wor- 
ship. We  will  now  sing,  "TfojC 
Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is  burning," 
and  this  semi-annual  conference  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  will  be  adjourned 
for  six  months. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 
"The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is 
burning." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced 
by  Elder  Joseph  C.  Bentley,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Juarez  stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six 
months. 


Prof.  Anthony  C.  Lund  conduct- 
ed the  singing  in  the  Tabernacle. 
Prof.  John  J.  McClellan  played  the 
accompaniments,  interludes,  etc.,  on 
the  great  organ,  assisted  by  Edward 
P.  Kimball,  and  Tracy  Y.  Cannon. 

The  stenographic  reports  of  the 
discourses  were  taken  in  the  Taber- 
nacle by  Elder  Franklin  W.  Otter- 
strom,  assisted  by  Clarence  Cramer  ; 
and  in  the  Asembly  Hall  and  by  the 
Bureau  of  Information,  by  Elders 
Frederick  E.  Barker,  and  Fred  G. 
Barker. 

Edward  H.  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  Conference. 


HISTORY  OF 
THE  CHURCH 


Compiled  by  the  Church  Historians  and 
Published  by  the  Church 

IN  SIX  VOLUMES 
COMPLETING  THE  FIRST  PERIOD 

"The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  with 
introduction  and  notes  by  B.  H.  Roberts. 

A  remarkably  low  price  has  been  placed  on  the 
History  by  the  First  Presidency  to  secure  the  widest 
possible  circulation. 

Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Quorum  and 
Private  Library  should  have  a  set. 

Cloth — Embossed,  per  Vol  $1.50  postpaid 

Half  Morocco— Gilt  Top,  per  Vol   2.50 

Half  Calf— Gilt  Top,  per  Vol  :.  2.50 

Full  Morocco— Full  Gilt  Edge,per  Vol.  4.00 


WRITE  FOR  1918  CATALOG  FREE 

DESERET  NEWS  BOOK  STORE 

No.  6  MAIN  STREET,     .    SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


THREE  IMPORTANT 

NEW  BOOKS 


The  Restoration  of  the  Gospel 

By  OSBORNE  J.  P.  WIDTSOE,  with  an  intro- 
duction by  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr.,  of  the  Twelve. 

Adopted  by  the  Priesthood  Outlines  Conxmittee  as  a 
TEXT  BOOK  FOR  THE  PRIESTS'  QUORUMS 
for  the  year  1918. 

Bound  in  cloth,  75c  postpaid. 

TWO  BOOKS  THAT  EVERY  L.  D.  S. 
FAMILY  SHOULD  HAVE 

The  L.  D.  S.  Family  and  Individual  Record,  for 

histories  of  families  and  individuals.    Price  $1.25. 

Family  Record  of  Temple  Work  for  the  Dead. 

$1.25  and  upward. 

JOSEPH  SMITH'S  TEACHINGS 

This  book  contains  the  Prophet's  sermons  and  re- 
ligious doctrinal  writings,  gathered  from  the  six 
volumes  of  the  authorized  History  of  the  Church, 
and  arranged  according  to  subject  in  alphabetical 
order.    Price,  75c  postpaid. 


WRITE  FOR  1918  CATALOG  FREE 

DESERET  NEWS  BOOK  STORE 

No.  6  MAIN  STREET     -    SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


