OnsL  KundhsuL  Jkhiy-flMt 


ANNUAL 

confERtncE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

OfiJuL  6,  8,  and.  9,  1961 

With  Report  of  Discourses 

Published  by 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


The  One  Hundred  Thirty-first  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Thirty-First  An- 
nual Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held  in 
the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
Thursday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  April 
6,  8,  and  9,  1961. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00  p.m., 
Thursday,  Saturday  and  Sunday,  and  the 
General  Priesthood  meeting  was  held 
in  the  Tabernacle  Saturday  evening, 
April  8,  at  7:00  p.m. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  ses- 
sions were  broadcast  and  telecast  over 
Station  KSL  and  KSL-TV  at  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  and  by  arrangement  through 
KSL  the  following  stations  made  avail- 
able to  their  listening  or  viewing  audi- 
ences one  or  more  of  the  six  general 
sessions: 

In  Utah:  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KSUB 
at  Cedar  City,  KVEL  at  Vernal,  KDXU 
at  St.  George,  KVNU  at  Logan. 

In  Arizona:  KPHO  and  KPHO-TV  at 
Phoenix,  KCLS  at  Flagstaff,  K-GUN- 
TV  at  Tucson. 

In  California:  KSRO  at  Santa  Rosa, 
KEEN  and  KNTV  at  San  Jose,  KTTV  at 
Los  Angeles,  KVIP-TV  at  Redding, 
KGO-TV  at  San  Francisco,  KOVR-TV 
at  Stockton,  KFMB-TV  at  San  Diego, 
KERO-TV  at  Bakersfield,  KIEM-TV  at 
Eureka. 

In  Colorado:  KLZ  and  KBTV  at 
Denver,  KREX  at  Grand  Junction. 

In  Idaho:  KRXK  at  Rexburg,  KID  and 
KID-TV  at  Idaho  Falls,  KPST  at 
Preston,  KBRV  at  Soda  Springs,  KBOI- 
TV  at  Boise,  KLIX-TV  at  Twin  Falls, 
KLEW-TV  at  Lewiston. 

In  Montana:  KXLF-TV  at  Butte, 
KOOK-TV  at  Billings. 

In  Nevada:  KLAS-TV  at  Las  Vegas. 

In  New  Mexico:  KRSN  at  Los  Alamos. 

In  Oregon:  K-KID  at  Pendleton, 
KBES-TV  at  Medford,  KOTI-TV  at 
Klamath  Falls,  KOIN-TV  at  Portland. 

In  Washington:  KXLY-TV  at  Spo- 
kane, KIMA-TV  at  Yakima,  KBAS-TV 


at  Ephrata,  KEPR-TV  at  Pasco,  KOMO- 
TV  at  Seattle. 

All  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  on 
Temple  Square,  in  Barratt  Hall  (60 
North  Main  Street),  over  a  loud-speak- 
ing system  and  by  television.  In  addi- 
tion, thousands  listened  to  the  services 
on  the  Tabernacle  Grounds  by  means 
of  amplifying  equipment. 

The  proceedings  of  the  General 
Priesthood  meeting  were  broadcast  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall 
over  public  address  systems,  and  by  di- 
rect wire  over  a  public  address  system 
to  members  of  the  Priesthood  in  other 
assemblies  throughout  the  United  States 
and  in  Canada. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided, 
and  conducted  the  services  at  each  of 
the  sessions  of  the  Conference,  in- 
cluding the  General  Priesthood  meeting. 

A  full  report  of  Columbia  Broadcast- 
ing System's  Church  of  the  Air  and 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcasts 
is  also  included  in  this  record.  (See 
pages  134  to  138.) 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  was  Clerk  of 
the  Conference. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

The  First  Presidency:  David  O. 
McKay,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.*,  Henry 
D.  Moyle. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Harold  B.  Lee, 
Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson, 
Mark  E.  Petersen,  Delbert  L.  Stapley, 
Marion  G.  Romney,  LeGrand  Richards, 
Richard  L.  Evans,  George  Q.  Morris,  ** 
Howard  W.  Hunter. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G. 
Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Alma  Sonne,  EIRay  L.  Christiansen, 
John  Longden,  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Gordon 
B.  Hinckley,  Henry  D.  Taylor,  William 
J.  Critchlow  Jr.,  ***,  Nathan  Eldon 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Tanner,  Franklin  Dewey  Richards, 
Theodore  Moyle  Burton. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy: 
Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins, 
Seymour  Dilworth  Young,  Milton  R. 
Hunter,  Bruce  R.  McConkie,  Marion 
Duff  Hanks,  ****. 

Presiding  Bishopric:  Joseph  L.  Wirth- 
lin,  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  Carl  W. 
Buehner. 

General  Officers  and  Other 
Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Jo- 
seph Fielding  Smith,  and  assistants, 
A.  William  Lund  and  Preston  Nibley. 

Members   of   the   General  Welfare 


Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Edu- 
cation and  Administrator  Church  Board 
of  Education,  Directors  and  Associate 
Directors  of  Institutes,  and  Seminary 
Instructors. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Coun- 
selors, Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs, 
High  Priests,  Seventies,  Elders;  General, 
Stake,  and  Ward  officers  of  Auxiliary 
Associations,  etc.,  from  all  parts  of  the 
Church. 

•President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  attended  the  first 
session  of  the  Conference  but  was  not  present  at  any 
of  the  other  sessions,  under  advice  of  his  physician. 

**Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown  was  in  South  Africa,  visit- 
ing the  South  African  Mission. 

***Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer  was  in  Europe,  presiding  over 
the   European  Mission. 

**  "Elder  A.  Theodore  Tuttle  was  in  South  America 
filling  a  Church  appointment. 


FIRST  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 


The  first  session  of  the  One  Hundred 
Thirty-first  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  convened  in  the  great  Taber- 
nacle in  Salt  Lake  City  Thursday  morn- 
ing, April  6,  at  10:00  a.m.,  with  President 
David  O.  McKay  presiding  and  con- 
ducting the  services  of  the  meeting. 

The  music  for  this  session  of  the 
Conference  was  furnished  by  the  Pri- 
mary Teachers  Chorus  from  19  stakes  of 
Utah  County,  with  Sister  Lue  Groesbeck 
directing.  Roy  M.  Darley  was  at  the 
organ. 

In  opening  the  Conference  President 
McKay  made  the  following  introductory 
remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

One  hundred  and  thirty-one  years  ago 
this  morning  in  the  house  of  Peter 
Whitmer,  Sr.,  in  accordance  with  a 
previous  commandment  from  the  Lord, 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  was  organized.  In  commemora- 
tion of  that  event  we  are  convened  in 
the  historic  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City.  All  the  Gen- 
eral Authorities  of  the  Church  are  in 
attendance  this  morning  excepting  Elder 
Hugh  B.  Brown,  who  is  in  South  Africa 
on  a  Church  assignment;  Elder  Alvin  R. 
Dyer,  who  is  presiding  over  the  Euro- 
pean Mission;  and  Elder  A.  Theodore 
Tuttle,  who  is  filling  a  Church  appoint- 
ment in  South  America. 

For  the  convenience  of  those  who  are 
unable  to  enter  this  building,  and  the 
building  is  crowded  to  capacity,  we 
announce  that  these  services  and  all 
other  general  sessions  of  the  Conference, 
will  be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall 
and  in  Barratt  Hall  by  television.  All 
general  sessions  of  this  Conference  will 
be  broadcast  as  a  public  service  over  64 
radio  stations,  and  49  television  stations 
throughout  the  west.  We  express  appre- 
ciation to  the  owners  of  these  stations 
who  render  this  public  service.  Ac- 
cording to  a  survey  that  has  been  made, 
it  is  possible  that  over  a  million  people 


will  hear  and  see  the  proceedings  of 
this  Conference. 

Any  important  messages,  and  we  have 
received  several  already,  that  come  to 
us  for  persons  attending  these  sessions 
will  be  announced  at  the  dismissal  of 
the  meetings  over  the  public  address 
system  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds. 

These  beautiful  daffodils  arranged  on 
the  rostrum  have  come  to  us  by  air 
from  the  Tacoma  Stake  through  the 
graciousness  of  the  Puyallup  Valley 
Daffodil  Festival,  Inc.  of  Tacoma, 
Washington.  The  calla  lilies  also  have 
come  by  air  from  the  high  priests'  quo- 
rum of  the  Oakland-Berkeley  Stake. 
Thank  you,  members  and  friends,  for 
your  thoughtful,  sweet  messengers  of 
love  and  loyal  support.  We  are  not 
unmindful  of  the  many  hours  spent  by 
the  members  of  the  Church  in  picking 
and  arranging  these  flowers  for  ship- 
ment. 

We  are  pleased  to  announce  that  the 
Primary  Teachers  Chorus  from  19  stakes 
of  Utah  County,  with  Sister  Lue  Groes- 
beck as  their  conductor,  will  furnish  the 
music  for  both  sessions  today.  We  ex- 
tend a  hearty  welcome  to  them,  and 
express  our  sincere  gratitude  for  their 
presence  at  this  session. 

We  received  telegrams  from  the  presi- 
dent of  the  Swedish  Mission  and  from 
President  Dyer  and  others  as  follows: 

President  Dyer  says:  "The  mission 
presidents  and  wives  with  2,400  mission- 
aries join  us  in  sending  our  love  and 
greetings  at  the  crucial  time  of  Confer- 
ence. Europe  reports  3,500  converts  in 
the  last  three  months.  President  Alvin 
R.  and  Sister  Dyer." 

"Missionaries  and  members  send  love 
and  greetings  from  South  Africa  to  the 
First  Presidency,  General  Authorities, 
and  all  attending  General  Conference. 
All  well  here.  Hugh  B.  Brown  and  O. 
Layton  Alldredge." 

Missionaries  from  New  England: 
"Missionaries  and  members  gratefully 
acknowledge  the  Lord's  blessings  in  the 
restoration  of  his  divine  gospel,  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Thursday,  April  6 

pray  his  blessings  on  its  annual  Con- 
ference, and  upon  you  and  Sister 
McKay  for  continued  health  and 
strength.  President  and  Sister  John  E. 
Carr  of  the  New  England  Mission." 

From  Brother  Tuttle:  "South  Ameri- 
can mission  presidents  and  700  mission- 
aries send  love  and  greetings.  We 
pledge  greater  devotion  and  effort  in  the 
cause  of  truth  among  the  people  of 
South  America.  Elder  A.  Theodore 
Tuttle." 

From  Sweden:  "Greetings  from  the 
missionaries  and  Saints  of  the  Swedish 
Mission.  Making  progress.  President 
and  Sister  A.  Gideon  Omer." 

To  the  large  audience  in  the  Taber- 
nacle, to  the  great  audience  and  mem- 
bers and  friends  who  are  listening  in 
by  radio  and  television,  we  extend  a 
hearty  welcome  this  beautiful  morning. 
We  welcome  and  express  appreciation 
for  the  presence  of  the  stake  presiden- 
cies, temple  presidencies,  some  of  whom 
are  from  far-off  countries,  to  bishoprics 
and  to  high  councilmen,  General 
Auxiliary  organizations  of  the  Church, 
and  other  General  Officers  of  the 
Church. 

We  are  very  pleased  to  see,  sitting  in 
reserved  seats,  the  following  general 
representatives  in  the  nation,  state,  and 
from  our  educational  institutions:  Sen- 
ator Wallace  F.  Bennett,  Senator  Frank 
E.  Moss,  United  States  Senators;  Honor- 
able David  S.  King,  U.  S.  House  of 
Representatives;  Governor  George  Dewey 
Clyde;  Secretary  of  State  Lamont 
Toronto.  From  the  educational  institu- 
tions: President  A.  Ray  Olpin  of  the 
University  of  Utah;  President  Ernest  L. 
Wilkinson  of  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity; President  John  L.  Clarke  of 
Ricks  College;  Dr.  William  Miller, 
president  of  the  Weber  College,  Dr.  A. 


First  Day 

Sherman  Christenson,  Associate  Judge 
of  the  Federal  Court,  and  perhaps  others 
whom  we  have  not  seen  from  the 
rostrum.  We  are  glad  to  welcome  you 
here  and  hope  you  enjoy  the  services 
that  will  now  follow.  I  think  that  J.  L. 
Nelson,  president  of  Salt  Lake  City 
Trade  Technical  School,  is  here  also, 
and  Dr.  John  T.  Wahlquist  of  the  San 
Jose  State  College,  and  Dr.  Wilson  W. 
Sorensen  of  the  Vocational  School  at 
Provo. 

As  already  announced,  the  singing 
for  this  morning's  session  will  be  fur- 
nished by  the  Primary  Teachers  Chorus 
of  19  stakes  of  Utah  County,  with  Sister 
Lue  Groesbeck  conducting,  and  Brother 
Roy  M.  Darley  at  the  organ.  We  shall 
begin  this  session  by  the  Primary 
Teachers  Chorus  singing,  "The  Morn- 
ing Breaks,  The  Shadows  Flee."  The 
invocation  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Frank  B.  Bowers,  president  of  the 
Bonneville  Stake. 


The  Primary  Teachers  Chorus  sang, 
"The  Morning  Breaks,  The  Shadows 
Flee." 

Elder  Frank  B.  Bowers,  president  of 
the  Bonneville  Stake,  offered  the 
invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  just  offered  was  by 
Elder  Frank  B.  Bowers,  president  of  the 
Bonneville  Stake.  The  Primary  Teachers 
Chorus  will  now  sing,  "Christ  And  His 
Little  Ones,"  with  a  solo  by  Ronnie 
Clark,  "When  He  Comes  Again,"  Sister 
Lue  Groesbeck  conducting. 

The  Primary  Teachers  Chorus  sang: 
"Christ  And  His  Little  Ones,"  solo  by 
Ronnie  Clark. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


"Rejoice,  O  young  man,  in  thy  youth; 
and  let  thy  heart  cheer  thee  in  the  days 
of  thy  youth,  and  walk  in  the  ways  of 
thine  heart,  and  in  the  sight  of  thine 
eyes:  but  know  thou,  that  for  all  these 
things  God  will  bring  thee  into  judg- 
ment." (Eccl.  11:9.) 


These  words  were  written  by  The 
Preacher,  son  of  David  of  old,  approxi- 
mately nine  hundred  and  seventy-seven 
years  before  Christ — admonitions  to 
youth  as  applicable  in  this  year  1961 
after  Christ  as  they  were  nearly  three 
thousand  years  agol  ". . .  but  know  thou, 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


5 


that  for  all  these  things  God  will  bring 
thee  into  judgment." 

Every  sixth  day  of  April,  General  Au- 
thorities, officers,  and  members  of  the 
Church  meet  in  general  conference  to 
hear  reports  of  the  progress  of  the 
Church,  sustain  officers,  consider  matters 
pertaining  to  the  restored  gospel,  and 
take  such  action  as  the  official  repre- 
sentatives of  the  Church  may  deem 
necessary  and  helpful. 

If  the  question  were  asked  this  morn- 
ing, "In  what  respect  during  the  last 
year  has  the  Church  made  the  most 
commendable  progress?"  I  would  not 
answer:  "In  financial  matters,"  although 
it  is  a  fact  that  perhaps  never  before 
have  the  financial  interests  of  the 
Church  been  more  prosperous. 

I  would  not  say:  "In  the  increase  of 
the  number  of  new  houses  of  worship," 
although  members  of  the  Church  have 
put  forth  more  effort  and  built  and  paid 
for  more  chapels  than  in  any  other 
similar  period  of  the  past;  for  example, 
I  find  that  during  the  year  1960  there 
were  111  Church  buildings  dedicated; 
fifty  other  buildings  are  ready  to  be 
dedicated.  There  are  completed,  but 
not  dedicated  because  they  are  not  en- 
tirely paid  for,  233  buildings,  or  a  total 
of  Church  buildings  constructed  and 
dedicated  in  1960  of  394.  We  have  no 
information  compiled  for  the  first  three 
months  of  1961,  but  it  is  estimated  that 
buildings  in  the  planning  stage  and 
under  construction  would  exceed  the 
900  mark. 

If  we  were  to  ask  for  the  most  com- 
mendable progress,  I  would  not  answer: 
"In  the  increased  membership,"  although 
in  the  last  thirteen  months  the  growth 
of  the  Church  in  numbers  in  the  stakes 
and  in  the  missions  has  been  most 
encouraging.  There  has  been  an  in- 
crease of  a  figure  approaching  the 
100,000  mark.  This  afternoon  we  shall 
find  the  total  membership  given  in  the 
statistics.* 

I  would  not  answer  that  the  most 
commendable  progress  has  been  in  better 
understanding  among  the  leaders  of 
municipalities,  newspaper  editors,  and. 
well-informed  people  generally  regard- 
ing the  purposes,  organization,  and  con- 
tributions of  the  Church  toward  peace 
and  the  ultimate  destiny  of  the  world- 


I  would  answer  that  the  most  encour- 
aging progress  of  the  Church  during  the 
last  year  is  seen  in  the  increased  number 
of  young  people  participating  in  Church 
activity.  We  hear  much  about  the  de- 
linquency and  incorrigibility  of  youth. 
I  desire  to  say  a  word  this  morning  about 
their  corrigibility,  as  we  have  seen  it 
and  noticed  it  in  visiting  in  different 
parts  of  the  Church. 

For  example,  on  Sunday,  March  26, 
1961,  I  attended  the  dedicatory  services 
of  the  Bountiful  South  Stake  Center 
and  Bountiful  Eighth  Ward  Church 
edifice.  There  were  in  attendance  over 
1,700  people,  the  majority  of  whom 
impressed  me  as  being  young  members 
of  the  Primary  Association  and  teen- 
agers. That  same  evening  I  attended 
the  Sacrament  meeting  of  the  Garden 
Heights  W ard,  Canyon  Rim  Stake.  Here 
again  a  large  proportion  of  the  congre- 
gation was  made  up  of  young  people. 

Two  weeks  ago  today  in  our  regular 
weekly  meeting,  one  of  the  brethren  of 
the  General  Authorities,  I  think  it  was 
Brother  Mark  E.  Petersen,  reported  that 
he  learned  recently  while  attending  the 
Bear  River  Stake  conference  that  four 
wards  in  that  stake  had  a  Sacrament 
meeting  attendance  for  one  month  of 
above  fifty  percent  of  the  entire  mem- 
bership of  the  ward,  and  two  of  these 
four  wards  were  in  the  sixty  percent 
bracket.  The  Oneida  Stake  had  a  year- 
long average  high  in  the  forties,  and 
some  wards  had  sixty  percent,  and  even 
seventy  percent  in  attendance.  In  each 
case  the  young  people  were  a  conspicuous 
part  of  the  audience. 

For  this  increased  attendance  of  young 
people  much  credit  is  due  to  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric,  who  have  put  forth 
special  effort  to  have  the  deacons, 
teachers,  and  priests  attend  Sacrament 
meetings.  And  right  here  I  would  like 
to  say  to  this  vast  congregation  that  it 
is  a  significant  fact  in  Church  organiza- 
tion that  the  bishop  of  the  ward  is  not 
only  ordained  to  preside  over  his  par- 
ticular ecclesiastical  group  but  is  also 
set  apart  by  divine  appointment  as 
president  of  the  priests'  quorum,  made 
up  of  18,  19,  and  20-year-old  young 
men  who,  with  young  women  of 
corresponding  age,  literally  carve  the 
moral  atmosphere  of  the  community. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Thursday,  April  6 

Much  of  this  activity  of  the  young  is 
due  to  the  Mutual  Improvement  Asso- 
ciations, who  have  placed  special 
emphasis  upon  the  attendance  of  mem- 
bers of  the  MIA  at  Sacrament  meetings. 
The  Primary  general  presidency  and 
board  and  stake  and  ward  workers  merit 
great  credit  also. 

But  I  know  and  you  know  that  mere 
attendance  at  Church  and  other  acts  of 
piety  signify  little  if  the  person  does  not 
conform  his  acts  and  his  speech  to  the 
principles  of  the  gospel.  Into  three 
principal  environments  the  child  is  daily 
thrown,  which  direct  his  actions,  inspire 
his  behavior  in  all  his  contacts  with  his 
fellow  beings,  enable  him  to  control 
himself  or  to  become  a  slave  to  his  ap- 
petites, his  passions,  and  desires. 

These  three  environments  are:  the 
home,  the  school,  the  church. 

Beaconsfield  wisely  wrote:  "I  have  al- 
ways felt  that  the  best  security  for 
civilization  is  the  dwelling,  and  that 
upon  properly  appointed  and  becoming 
dwellings  depends  more  than  anything 
else  the  improvement  of  mankind.  Such 
dwellings  are  the  nursery  of  all  domes- 
tic virtues,  and  without  a  becoming 
home,  the  exercise  of  those  virtues  is 
impossible." 

It  is  not  generally  conceded  by  edu- 
cators nor  by  parents  that  the  real 
education  of  a  child  begins  early  in 
home  life.  One  of  our  best  modern 
philosophers,  referring  to  the  value  of 
education  in  childhood,  says  this: 

"Time  does  not  have  the  same  value 
in  childhood  as  in  later  years.  A  year 
is  much  longer,  physiologically  and 
psychologically,  for  a  child  than  for  a 
man.  One  year  for  a  child  of  ten 
corresponds  to  two  years  for  a  man  of 
twenty.  When  the  child  is  younger, 
the  discrepancy  is  still  greater.  The 
time  elapsed  between  the  third  and 
seventh  year  probably  represents  a  dura- 
tion equivalent  to  fifteen  or  twenty  years 
for  a  grown  man. 

"Now,  it  is  precisely  at  this  age  that 
a  child  builds  up  the  framework  into 
which  all  the  events  of  his  future  life 
will  fit,  and  in  particular  his  moral 
code.  This  explains  the  considerable 
amount  of  knowledge  a  child  can  ac- 
cumulate during  his  first  years.  It 
would  be  highly  desirable  for  parents 


First  Day 

and  educators  to  take  this  fact  into 
consideration. 

"The  moral  education  of  a  child  is 
different  from  that  given  to  a  man.  In- 
deed, for  the  very  young  it  is  important 
not  to  judge  the  gravity  of  a  fault  by  its 
consequences.  For  a  child  a  fault  is 
serious  in  itself — absolutely  and  not 
relatively — because  it  has  been  decreed 
that  it  is  grave.  Only  the  absolute  char- 
acter of  a  fault  can  impart  to  the  child 
a  true  moral  discipline  without  which 
progress  is  impossible. 

"It  is  impossible  to  model  a  child 
morally  if  this  principle  is  not  followed, 
for  the  faults  are  almost  always  venial 
by  their  consequences.  It  is  only  during 
the  most  tender  age  that  the  character 
can  be  formed."  (From  Human  Destiny 
by  Lecomte  du  Nouy,  pp.  208-209.) 

Parents  dress  their  children  in  the 
best  clothes  when  children  go  out  in 
"company."  They  cannot  so  change 
their  characters.  What  traits  of  char- 
acter the  child  develops  in  the  home, 
he  takes  with  him  into  society.  The 
selfish,  morose  nature,  or  his  cheerful, 
kind,  radiant  soul  developing  in  home 
environment  goes  with  him  when  he 
joins  the  social  group.  If  you  want  your 
child  to  be  courteous  in  society,  teach 
him  to  be  courteous  in  the  home.  "If 
you  please,"  "thank  you,"  "pardon 
me,"  are  terms  of  culture  more  ap- 
plicable and  more  educative  in  the 
home  than  in  social  circles.  Into  our 
schools  and  churches  come  too  many 
children  from  homes  where  the  funda- 
mental virtues  of  true  manhood  and 
beautiful  womanhood  are  seldom  taught 
and  more  infrequently  practised. 

In  schools,  in  this  Christian  land,  the 
teaching  of  Church  dogma  is  forbidden, 
but  the  teaching  of  true  citizenship — 
honesty,  loyalty,  the  keeping  of  a  prom- 
ise, and  other  virtues  that  contribute  to 
the  dignity  of  man — is  not  banned. 

Students  reflecting  these  high  ideals, 
recently  made  a  trip  to  California.  The 
Deseret  News  made  the  following  com- 
ments about  them:  "Vigorous,  ambitious, 
carefree  youth  bears  slightly  more  than 
its  share  of  the  criticism  folks  pass  on 
to  each  other  in  these  critical  times, 
but  when  youth  acquits  itself  in  such  a 
way  as  to  win  the  admiration  and  praise 
of  many  observers,  the  occasion  should 
not  be  permitted  to  pass  unnoticed. 


PRESIDENT  D. 

"Such  a  favorable  impression  was  left 
with  our  California  friends  when  the 
chosen  music  students  of  the  Salt  Lake 
area  junior  and  senior  high  schools  so 
becomingly  upheld  the  loftly  idealism 
of  their  schools,  their  homes,  and  their 
city  when  they  participated  recently  in 
the  Musical  Educators  National  Conven- 
tion at  Santa  Monica,  California.  Choral 
and  orchestral  groups  made  up  the  Salt 
Lake  entourage  to  the  conclave. 

"Typical  of  the  impression  our  young- 
sters left  with  their  hosts  is  this  tribute 
by  the  associate  manager  of  the  hotel 
where  the  students  of  the  Granite  Dis- 
trict were  housed:  'It  is  seldom  that  a 
hotel  has  an  opportunity  to  have  its 
house  occupied  with  such  delightful, 
well-mannered,  clean-cut  children  as 
the  MENC  group  that  Mr.  Moroni  L. 
Jensen  brought  to  Santa  Monica.  .  .  . 
We  are  writing  this  letter  to  let  you 
know  what  a  wonderful  impression  the 
children  of  Salt  Lake  City  and  Mr. 
Jensen  made.' " 

If  they  had  been  delinquents,  boister- 
ous, unladylike,  ungentlemanlike,  the 
papers  would  have  told  us  about  it.  We 
thank  these  hotel  people  for  paying  this 
tribute  to  our  boys  and  girls,  who  are 
truly  representative  children  of  good 
homes. 

Man  should  so  conduct  himself  as  to 
merit  the  trust  of  his  fellows.  "There 
is  a  unanimity  of  thought  in  this,"  writes 
a  wise  philosopher,  "which  is  to  be 
found  nowhere  else  except  on  the  subject 
of  the  ten  commandments,  but  the  effort 
made  to  impress  this  idea  indelibly  on 
the  minds  of  children  in  the  shape  of 
automatic  conditioned  reflexes  is  so 
slight  that  one  is  aghast.  The  equilib- 
rium of  the  whole  world,  not  only  peace, 
but  justice,  commerce,  industry,  science, 
rests  on  the  confidence  in  the  integrity 
and  in  the  word  of  men,  and  all  the 
moral  teaching  given  to  youth  in  the 
course  of  ten  or  fifteen  years  of  educa- 
tion and  instruction  certainly  does  not 
represent  more  than  a  few  hours,  in 
certain  cases  a  few  days.  The  young 
are  stuffed  with  many  useless  details 
and  the  essential  is  passed  over  in  si- 
lence." (The  "essential"  meaning  moral 
training,  teaching  them  the  dignity  of 
true  manhood.) 

"Farmers  might  as  well  be  taught 


/ID  O.  McKAY  7 

to  grow  flowers  in  borders  without 
learning  how  to  cultivate  a  field;  or 
young  girls  be  taught  the  art  of  make-up 
without  learning  how  to  wash.  Exam- 
inations deal  with  a  quantity  of  facts 
destined  to  be  forgotten  in  three  months, 
or  which  are  purely  technical;  children 
are  trained  to  behave  decently  in  public, 
but  nobody  dreams  of  making  them 
repeat  daily,  as  a  prayer:  'Every  promise 
is  sacred.  No  one  is  obliged  to  give  a 
pledge,  but  he  who  breaks  his  given 
word  is  dishonored.  He  commits  an 
unpardonable  crime  against  his  dignity; 
he  betrays;  he  covers  himself  with 
shame;  he  excludes  himself  from  human 
society.' 

"If  this  is  not  in  reality  a  prayer  it 
is  a  creed  which,  by  expressing  faith 
in  the  dignity  of  Man  addresses  itself, 
beyond  him,  to  God  from  whom  we 
have  received  it." 

He  who  is  purported  to  have  been  the 
wisest  American  wrote  years  ago:  "Char- 
acter is  higher  than  intellect.  A  great 
soul  will  be  fit  to  live  as  well  as  to 
think."  (Emerson.) 

In  the  Church,  increased  participation 
in  church  activity  indicates  a  desire  to 
be  a  partaker  of  spirituality,  the  highest 
acquisition  of  the  soul,  and  young  people 
desire  it.  I  know  there  are  many  who 
haven't  that  feeling,  many  who  do  not 
come,  but  you  know,  fellow  workers, 
that  the  young  people  like  that  which 
is  good  and  true. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  sweet  assurance 
that  God  is  my  Father,  and  I  should  like 
to  have  the  youth  of  Israel  feel  so  close 
to  him  that  they  will  approach  him 
daily  in  secret  prayer.  I  would  have 
them  have  the  trust  in  him  which  the 
little  blind  girl  had  in  her  father.  One 
day  she  was  sitting  on  his  lap  in  the 
train,  and  a  friend  sitting  by  said,  "Let 
me  rest  you,"  and  he  reached  over  and 
took  the  little  child  on  his  lap.  The 
father  said  to  her,  "Do  you  know  who 
is  holding  you?"  "No,"  she  replied, 
"but  you  do." 

Just  so  real  should  be  the  trust  which 
our  boys  and  girls  have  in  their  Father 
in  heaven.  If  our  young  people  will 
have  this  faith,  and  so  approach  the 
Lord,  there  are  at  least  four  great  bless- 
ings which  will  come  to  them  here  and 
now. 


8 

Thursday,  April  6 

The  first  is  Gratitude.  Their  souls 
will  be  filled  with  thanksgiving  for  what 
God  has  done  for  them.  They  will  find 
themselves  rich  in  favors  bestowed.  The 
young  man  who  closes  the  door  behind 
him,  who  draws  the  curtains,  and  there 
in  silence  pleads  with  God  for  help, 
should  first  pour  out  his  soul  in  grati- 
tude for  health,  for  friends,  for  loved 
ones,  for  the  gospel,  for  the  manifesta- 
tions of  God's  existence.  He  should 
first  count  his  many  blessings  and  name 
them  one  by  one. 

The  second  blessing  of  prayer  is 
Guidance.  I  cannot  conceive  of  a  young 
man's  going  astray  who  will  kneel  down 
by  his  bedside  in  the  morning  and  pray 
to  God  to  help  him  keep  himself  un- 
spotted from  the  sins  of  the  world. 
I  think  that  a  young  girl  will  not  go 
far  wrong  who  will  kneel  down  in  the 
morning  and  pray  that  she  might  be 
kept  pure  and  spotless  during  the  com- 
ing day.  I  cannot  think  that  a  Latter- 
day  Saint  will  hold  enmity  in  his  heart 
if  he  will  sincerely,  in  secret,  pray  God 
to  remove  from  his  heart  all  feelings  of 
envy  and  malice  toward  any  of  his 
fellow  men.  Guidance?  Yes,  God  will 
be  there  to  guide  and  direct  him  who 
will  seek  him  in  faith  with  all  his  might 
and  with  all  his  soul. 

The  third  blessing  is  Confidence.  All 
over  this  land  there  are  thousands  and 
tens  of  thousands  of  students  who  are 
struggling  to  get  an  education.  In  the 
Church,  let  us  teach  these  students  that 
if  they  want  to  succeed  in  their  lessons, 
they  should  seek  their  God;  that  the 
greatest  Teacher  known  to  the  world 
stands  near  to  guide  them.  Once  the 
student  feels  that  he  can  approach  the 
Lord  through  prayer,  -he  will  receive 
confidence  that  he  can  get  his  lessons, 
that  he  can  write  his  speech,  that  he 
can  stand  up  before  his  fellow  students 
and  deliver  his  message  without  fear  of 
failure.  Confidence  comes  through  sin- 
cere prayer. 

Finally,  he  will  get  Inspiration.  It  is 
not  imagination,  if  we  approach  God 
sincerely  seeking  light  and  guidance 
from  him,  our  minds  will  be  enlightened 
and  our  souls  thrilled  by  his  Spirit. 
Washington  sought  it;  Lincoln  received 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

it;  Joseph  Smith  knew  it;  and  the  testi- 
mony, the  evidence  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph's  inspiration  is  manifest  to  all 
who  will  but  open  their  eyes  to  see  and 
their  hearts  to  understand. 

Heaven  guide  you,  our  Youth,  wher- 
ever you  are.  As  long  as  you  will  keep 
yourselves  pure  and  spotless  and  prayer- 
fully and  earnestly  keep  close  to  your 
Father  in  heaven,  his  Spirit  will  guide 
you,  magnify  you  in  your  youth,  and 
make  you  a  power  on  the  earth  for 
good.  Your  Father  in  heaven  is  ever 
ready  to  give  you  help  in  time  of  need 
and  give  you  comfort  and  strength  if 
you  will  approach  him  in  purity, 
simplicity,  and  faith. 

In  his  poem,  "Anchored  to  the  Infi- 
nite," Edwin  Markham  says: 

"The  builder  who  first  bridged  Niagara's 
gorge, 

Before  he  swung  his  cable,  shore  to 
shore, 

Sent  out  across  the  gulf  his  venturing 
kite 

Bearing  a  slender  cord  for  unseen  hands 
To  grasp  upon  the  further  cliff,  and  draw 
A  greater  cord,  and  a  greater  yet; 
'Til  at  the  last  across  the  chasm  swung 
The  cable — then  a  mighty  bridge  in  air! 
So  we  may  send  our  little  timid  thought 
Across  the  void,  out  to  God's  reaching 
hands — 

Send  out  our  love  and  faith  to  thread 
the  deep, 

Thought  after  thought  until  the  little 
cord 

Has  greatened  to  a  chain  no  chance  can 
break, 

And — we  are  anchored  to  the  Infinite!" 

I  repeat,  God  bless  you,  our  Youth, 
that  you  may  send  out  your  thoughts 
in  prayer  and  faith  and  receive  the  as- 
surance that  you  are  anchored  to  the 
Infinite,  in  God  our  Father  and  his  Holy 
Son,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Sterling 
W.  Sill,  Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.  Bishop  Wirthlin  will  be  our 
next  speaker. 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


Assistant  to  the  Council 

I  am  very  grateful,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  for  this  semiannual  opportunity 
of  attending  with  you  the  general  con- 
ference of  the  Church.  What  a  great 
privilege  it  is  to  come  here  and  be 
strengthened  in  our  faith  and  have 
our  thoughts  redirected  toward  the  pur- 
pose for  which  the  Church  was  organ- 
ized in  this  greatest  and  last  of  all  the 
dispensations. 

The  Lord's  reason  for  bringing  us  to 
these  valleys  in  the  first  place  was  not 
primarily  to  establish  us  in  a  condition 
of  wealth  and  ease,  he  probably  did 
not  intend  that  we  should  ever  excel 
as  a  financial  community  or  as  a  seat 
of  political  influence.  We  were  brought 
here  to  build  up  the  kingdom,  to  send 
out  the  message  of  the  restoration  to  the 
nations,  and  to  prepare  the  world  for 
the  glorious  second  coming  of  Christ. 
In  these  fields  we  must  excel. 

What  a  sobering  responsibility  it  is 
to  be  entrusted  with  the  message  of 
universal  salvation.  But  with  the  ad- 
vantage in  knowledge  that  we  have  re- 
ceived from  our  three  great  volumes  of 
new  scripture,  supported  by  our  own 
personal  testimonies  of  the  truth,  what 
reason  can  we  possibly  give  if  we  do 
not  excel  in  faith  and  in  education 
and  in  Godliness  and  in  honor  and  in 
the  personal  preparation  we  make  for 
eternal  life?  To  help  us  to  get  the 
motivation  and  inspiration  for  this  ac- 
complishment is  one  of  the  purposes 
of  these  great  semiannual  meetings. 

As  a  part  of  each  conference,  the 
Presidency  and  other  General  Authori- 
ties of  the  Church  have  an  inspiring 
meeting  in  the  upper  room  of  the 
temple.  This  conference,  as  I  sat  in  that 
historic  place,  I  thought  about  our  pio- 
neer ancestors,  who  out  of  their  poverty 
erected  the  magnificent  temple  that 
stands  on  this  block,  wherein  the  sacred 
ordinances  so  necessary  to  our  salvation 
can  be  performed.  But  the  temple  itself 
is  a  constant  reminder  to  us  to  do  our 
duty.  It  is  a  kind  of  symbol  of  our 
mission. 

All  of  you,  I  am  sure,  have  had  the 
thrilling  experience  at  night  of  looking 


of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

up  to  the  lighted  spires  of  the  temple 
as  they  point  us  up  to  God,  as  if  to 
remind  us  of  the  purpose  of  our  lives. 
To  me,  one  of  the  most  inspirational 
parts  of  any  church  edifice  is  its  spire. 
The  word,  "spire"  and  "inspire"  have 
a  close  origin  and  a  near  common 
meaning.  And  as  God's  thoughts  are 
higher  than  our  thoughts,  so  we  need 
his  inspiration  for  our  accomplishment. 

Jesus  once  explained  one  source  of 
his  strength  when  he  said,  "My  meat  is 
to  do  the  will  of  him  that  sent  me,  and 
to  finish  his  work."  (John  4:34.)  Do- 
ing God's  will  is  also  our  greatest 
possible  source  of  strength.  To  encour- 
age his  disciples  to  follow  him  in  doing 
the  Father's  will,  Jesus  spoke  some  lines 
that  I  would  like  to  use  as  a  text.  He 
said,  "Lift  up  your  eyes,  and  look  on 
the  fields;  for  they  are  white  already  to 
harvest."  (Ibid.,  4:35.) 

Certainly  our  day  is  a  most  urgent 
time  to  re-echo  that  theme.  We  should 
lift  up  our  eyes  to  see  our  duty  and  to 
understand  our  opportunities;  to  accept 
our  responsibilities  and  to  put  truth  in 
force  in  our  lives.  We  should  lift  up 
our  eyes  to  worship  God  and  to  serve 
our  fellow  men  as  the  Lord  has 
commanded. 

We  are,  of  course,  all  aware  that 
there  are  other  powerful  influences  in 
the  world  inviting  us  to  look  down  to 
the  earth.  From  the  pinnacle  of  the 
temple,  Satan  said  to  Jesus,  "Cast  thy- 
self down."  Satan  has  been  giving  that 
same  direction  ever  since  with  the  most 
terrifying  success.  And  the  first  step 
toward  any  failure  is  always  merely  to 
look  down,  to  let  earthly  things  absorb 
our  interests.  It  is  pretty  difficult  to 
look  down  and  to  look  up  at  the  same 
time. 

It  has  been  said  that  one  may  not  al- 
ways look  where  he  is  going,  but  he 
will  always  go  where  he  is  looking.  If 
we  merely  look  down  long  enough, 
many  will  be  sure  to  fall. 

Back  in  the  days  of  the  old  sailing 
ships,  a  young,  inexperienced  seaman 
was  sent  aloft  in  a  storm  to  disentangle 
a  broken  rigging  from  the  mainmast. 


10  GENERAL  ( 

Thursday,  April  6 

Despite  the  raging  winds  he  climbed  up 
quickly,  and  soon  his  mission  was  ac- 
complished. But  as  he  started  to  de- 
scend, he  looked  down,  and  as  he  looked 
down,  he  became  dizzy  and  frightened. 
He  saw  the  angry,  rolling  sea.  He  felt 
the  quiver  of  the  trembling  ship  as  it 
was  tossed  about  by  the  waves.  Then 
he  became  aware  that  his  grip  was 
weakening,  and  he  cried  to  those  on 
the  deck  below  that  he  was  about  to 
fall.  The  captain  shouted  to  him  to 
stop  looking  down,  and  heeding  his 
superior's  command,  he  turned  his  eyes 
upward  and  soon  regained  his  balance 
and  self-confidence.  Then  he  was  able 
to  make  his  way  safely  back  to  the  deck. 

The  moral  dizziness  that  always  comes 
from  looking  down  is  one  of  our  biggest 
personal  problems.  It  is  one  of  the  sig- 
nificant characteristics  of  our  day  that 
as  a  people  we  are  too  much  occupied 
with  the  things  down.  The  newspapers, 
magazines,  and  our  own  inclinations 
center  our  attention  on  sin,  crime,  war, 
and  material  advantage.  Then  we  get 
dizzy  and  confused,  and  our  lives  tend 
to  lose  their  balance. 

Here  we  have  the  communist  example 
of  where  leaders  of  great  nations  have 
stopped  looking  up,  and  soon  they  have 
cast  themselves  down  by  centering  their 
life's  purposes  in  evil,  including  one  of 
the  greatest  sins  which  is  their  attempted 
enslavement  of  other  nations.  When 
nations  or  individuals  look  down  and 
recognize  no  higher  authority  than  their 
own,  they  soon  lose  their  sense  of  right 
and  wrong.  The  communist  leaders 
have  deliberately  destroyed  many  of 
their  own  people,  and  they  would,  if 
they  thought  they  could,  deprive  every 
human  being  in  the  world  of  his  God- 
given  free  agency  without  a  moment's 
hesitation.  They  have  closed  up  their 
churches  by  governmental  decree  and 
now  make  no  pretense  of  lifting  up  their 
eyes,  their  thoughts,  or  their  activities 
to  God. 

At  Fulton,  Missouri,  on  March  5, 
1946,  Winston  Churchill  said,  "A 
shadow  has  fallen  across  the  scene  so 
recently  lighted  by  Allied  victory.  From 
Stettin  in  the  Baltic  to  Trieste  in  the 
Adriatic,  an  iron  curtain  has  descended 
across  the  continent."  The  communists 
have  erected  a  vertical  curtain,  separat- 


First  Day 

ing  themselves  from  their  fellow  men 
and  are  thereby  violating  the  second 
great  commandment.  But  they  have 
also  erected  a  horizontal  curtain  over 
their  heads,  separating  themselves  from 
God,  and  are  thereby  violating  the  first 
and  greatest  commandment. 

But  we  sometimes  accomplish  about 
the  same  thing  individually  by  allow- 
ing the  iron  curtains  of  our  material 
interests,  our  social  affairs,  and  our 
spiritual  indifference  to  separate  us  from 
God  and  draw  our  attention  away  from 
the  main  purpose  of  our  lives.  It  doesn't 
take  very  long  looking  down  before  we 
are  incapable  of  doing  anything  else. 

In  his  Inferno  Dante  gave  an  account 
of  an  imaginary  trip  through  hell.  And 
one  group  of  hell's  inmates  said  to  him, 
"As  our  eyes  intent  on  earthly  things 
were  never  lifted  up  to  heaven,  so  now 
doth  justice  fix  them  down  upon  the 
ground.  And  even  as  greed  destroyed 
our  love  for  good  whereby  the  labors  of 
our  lives  were  lost,  so  now  doth  justice 
hold  us  captive  here,  fettered  in  close 
restraint." 

We  might  see  a  reflection  of  our  situa- 
tion in  John  Bunyon's  Pilgrim's  Progress 
story  of  the  man  with  the  muckrake. 
Because  this  man  spent  his  life  raking 
unto  himself  the  chaff  and  dust  of  the 
earth,  he  had  trained  himself  to  look 
in  no  direction  but  down.  There  was 
an  angel  standing  over  his  head  with 
a  celestial  crown  in  his  hand,  offering 
to  exchange  the  crown  for  the  muckrake. 
But  because  this  man  could  look  in  no 
direction  but  down,  he  disregarded  the 
offer  of  the  angel  as  he  continued  to 
rake  unto  himself  the  chaff  and  muck 
of  the  earth. 

With  a  similar  situation  in  mind, 
Edwin  Markham  entitled  his  poetic 
masterpiece,  "The  Man  with  the  Hoe." 
It  might  have  been  entitled,  "The  Man 
with  the  Muckrake."  It  was  written 
under  the  inspiration  of  Millet's  world- 
famous  painting  of  a  brutalized  toiler, 
representing  one  who  had  fallen  from 
the  high  position  in  which  he  had  been 
placed  by  the  Creator.  And  about  this 
man  with  an  iron  curtain  over  his 
head,  Mr.  Markham  said: 

"Bowed  by  the  weight  of  centuries  he 
leans 


ELDER  STER 

Upon  his  hoe  and  gazes  on  the  ground, 
The  emptiness  of  ages  in  his  face, 
And  on  his  back  the  burden  of  the 
world. 

Who  made  him  dead  to  rapture  and 
despair, 

A  thing  that  grieves  not  and  that  never 
hopes, 

Stolid  and  stunned,  a  brother  to  the  ox? 
Who  loosened  and  let  down  his  brutal 
jaw? 

Whose  was  the  hand  that  slanted  back 

this  brow? 
Whose  breath  blew  out  the  light  within 

this  brain? 

"Is  this  the  Thing  the  Lord  God  made 
and  gave 

To  have  dominion  over  sea  and  land; 
To  trace  the  stars  and  search  the  heavens 

for  power; 
To  feel  the  passion  of  Eternity? 
Is  this  the  dream  He  dreamed  who 

shaped  the  suns 
And  marked  their  ways  upon  the  ancient 

deep? 

Down  all  the  caverns  of  Hell  to  their 
last  gulf 

There  is  no  shape  more  terrible  than 
this — 

More   tongued   with   censure   of  the 

world's  blind  greed — 
More  filled  with  signs  and  portents  for 

the  soul — 
More  packt  with  danger  to  the  universe." 

And  then  Mr.  Markham  asks: 

"O  masters,  lords  and  rulers  in  all  lands, 
How  will  the  future  reckon  with  this 
man? 

How  answer  his  brute  question  in  that 
hour 

When  whirlwinds  of  rebellion  shake 

all  shores? 
How  will  it  be  with  kingdoms  and  with 

kings — 

With  those  who  shaped  him  to  the 

thing  he  is — 
When  this  dumb  Terror  shall  rise  to 

judge  the  world, 
After  the  silence  of  the  centuries?" 

We  always  begin  this  downward  pro- 
cess as  soon  as  we  separate  ourselves 
from  God  in  any  degree.  The  first  and 
greatest  commandment  has  to  do  with 
our  first  and  greatest  need,,  which  is  for 
God.   That  is,  God  created  us,  he  gives 


INGW.SILL  11 

us  life  and  breath,  he  enlightens  our 
minds  and  quickens  our  understandings. 
At  this  very  moment  God  is  sending  us 
energy,  food,  and  vitality  from  the  sun. 
We  do  not  live  on  an  independent 
earth.  If  the  sun's  rays  were  turned  off 
for  just  a  few  hours,  there  would  be  no 
life  left  upon  this  earth.  And  when 
men  turn  their  backs  on  God  and  obey 
no  higher  law  than  their  own,  then 
truth,  honor,  and  fairness  lose  their 
meaning.  The  angel's  song  of  "Peace 
on  earth,  good  will  toward  men"  is  an 
unintelligible  concept  to  communist 
philosophy.  Their  wisest  strategy  and 
the  point  of  their  greatest  excellence  is 
to  cause  confusion,  hatred,  and  strife 
among  their  fellow  men.  Mr.  Mao,  the 
communist  dictator  in  China,  recently 
said  that  he  would  welcome  an  atomic 
war,  and  we  have  every  reason  to  be- 
lieve that  he  was  being  entirely  truthful 
in  his  declaration. 

But  as  the  captain  in  the  storm  called 
to  the  inexperienced  seaman  to  look  up, 
so  the  captain  of  our  salvation  is  calling 
through  the  storms  of  our  troubled  lives 
saying  that  if  we  would  avoid  falling, 
we  must  look  up  to  God. 

We  sing  a  song  in  which  we  say: 

"Look  up,  my  soul,  be  not  cast  down, 
Cast  not  thine  eyes  upon  the  ground. 
Break  off  the  shackles  of  the  earth, 
Receive,  my  soul,  a  spirit's  birth." 

We  are  not  likely  to  receive  the  spirit's 
birth  while  we  are  competing  with  each 
other  in  evil.  We  are  born  again  only 
when  we  follow  the  direction  given  to 
our  lives  by  the  temple  spires  and  look 
up  to  our  Heavenly  Father.  We  need 
to  trade  in  our  muckrakes.  There  is  an 
angel  over  our  heads  offering  us  the 
celestial  kingdom  if  we  will  lift  up  our 
eyes  and  our  hearts  and  our  voices  and 
our  souls  unto  God.  We  need  to  take 
down  our  iron  curtains  and  do  away 
with  our  idleness  and  indifference.  We 
need  to  remember  the  purpose  of  our 
lives  and  give  a  more  enthusiastic  re- 
sponse to  the  Master's  invitation  so  ap- 
propriate to  our  day,  wherein  he  had 
said,  "Lift  up  your  eyes,  and  look  on 
the  fields;  for  they  are  white  already  to 
harvest."  (John  4:35.) 

That  God  will  help  us  so  to  do,  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

First  Day 

the  Twelve,  has  just  addressed  us.  We 
shall  now  hear  from  Bishop  Joseph  L. 
Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant  to    Wirthlin  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 


12 

Thursday,  April  6 

President  David  O.  McKay: 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a 
great  source  of  inspiration  to  be  present 
this  morning.  Week  after  week  as  I  visit 
the  stakes  in  the  Church,  I  always  feel 
I  am  with  my  brethren  and  sisters.  That 
is  the  way  I  feel  this  morning.  I  know 
you  as  my  brethren  and  sisters,  but  I 
also  know  of  our  older  brother,  Jesus 
Christ,  the  Son  of  God.  In  all  of  our 
endeavors,  we  must  give  consideration 
to  him. 

This  morning,  as  President  McKay 
was  giving  us  information  about  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  and  its  achievements, 
I  thought  of  another  young  man.  His 
name  was  Timothy.  Timothy  became 
a  wonderful  missionary  in  his  work  with 
the  Apostle  Paul.  Paul  said  to  him, 
"Let  no  man  despise  thy  youth;  but 
be  thou  an  example  of  the  believers,  in 
word,  in  conversation,  in  charity,  in 
spirit,  in  faith,  in  purity."  (1  Timothy 
4:12.) 

Paul's  words,  "Let  no  man  despise 
thy  youth  .  .  ."  can  be  directed  to  the 
thousands  of  our  young  missionaries  who 
are  out  in  the  world  preaching  the 
gospel  to  those  not  of  our  faith.  Any 
young  man  who  holds  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and 
is  endeavoring  to  build  up  the  king- 
dom may  come  in  contact  with  people 
who  say,  "Well,  after  all,  young  man, 
what  do  you  know  about  the  gospel?" 
Then,  they  can  remember,  if  they  will, 
what  Paul  said,  "Let  no  man  despise 
thy  youth.  .  .  ." 

Paul  also  said  to  Timothy,  which 
is  most  important,  when  he  mentioned 
"the  believers."  That  would  indicate 
that  all  these  young  men  should 
understand  the  gospel  and  believe  it 
and  teach  it  to  the  extent  that  they 
can  bear  testimony  that  they  are  rep- 
resenting the  true  Church. 

Paul  said  to  Timothy,  "in  word,"  by 
which  he  should  learn  the  gospel  and 
all  the  information  that  was  essential 


to  teach  it  to  those  not  of  the  true 
faith.  Paul  not  only  declared  to  Timothy, 
"in  word,"  but  also,  "in  conversation," 
which  means  to  preach  and  teach  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  to  those 
who  came  in  contact  with  him.  He 
also  said,  "in  charity,"  which  would  be 
kindness  and  helpfulness  in  all  of  his 
teachings.  He  then  said,  "in  spirit." 
The  spirit  comes  through  prayer,  being 
close  to  the  Lord  where  individual  prob- 
lems can  be  solved — the  spirit  of  loyalty 
and  devotion  to  the  Lord  and  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ,  and  also  with  this  comes  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  I  am  sure,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  no  individual 
can  render  the  right  service  in  preaching 
the  gospel  to  those  not  of  our  faith 
unless  he  has  the  Holy  Ghost.  It  is  so 
important  in  our  homes  that  we  instruct 
our  sons  and  daughters  about  the  Holy 
Ghost.  Paul  also  said  to  Timothy,  "in 
faith."  Faith  indicates  activity.  The 
youth  of  the  Church  and  these  young 
missionaries  who  go  out  into  the  world 
have  faith  so  strong  in  their  souls  that 
they  will  be  successful  in  their  assign- 
ments. He  also  mentioned  "in  purity" 
to  the  young  missionary,  Timothy;  purity 
of  mind  and  body  and  soul. 

The  Apostle  Matthew  recorded  these 
words  of  the  Christ:  "And  this  gospel  of 
the  kingdom  shall  be  preached  in  all 
the  world  for  a  witness  unto  all  na- 
tions; and  then  shall  the  end  come." 
(Matt.  24:14.) 

President  McKay  said  in  the  meeting 
of  the  General  Authorities  in  the  temple 
two  weeks  ago  that  Satan  has  more 
power  over  the  world  than  ever  before 
in  history.  I  accept  this  without  a 
question.  Therefore,  it  is  very  important 
for  all  of  us  to  give  thought  that  sooner 
or  later  the  end  is  going  to  come — the 
end  of  all  of  this  difficulty  that  we  have 
at  the  present  time  and  that  we  will 
prepare  the  world  for  the  second  com- 
ing of  Christ, 


BISHOP  JOSEPH 

The  Apostle  John  said  in  Revelation 
14:6-7: 

"And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the 
midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting 
gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell 
on  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation,  and 
kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people, 

"Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God, 
and  give  glory  to  him;  for  the  hour  of 
his  judgment  is  come:  and  worship  him 
that  made  heaven,  and  earth,  and  the 
sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters." 

When  the  Church  was  upon  the  earth 
two  thousand  years  ago,  and  thereafter 
was  disorganized,  the  apostles  and  all 
who  had  labored  in  building  up  the 
kingdom  at  that  time  were  gone.  There 
were  individuals  who  desired  to  organize 
churches  of  their  own.  During  that 
period  of  time  of  darkness  in  the  world 
when  the  sons  and  daughters  of  our 
Heavenly  Father  were  not  receiving  the 
divine  guidance  they  had  received  dur- 
ing the  time  of  the  apostles  and  those 
who  followed  them,  the  power  of  Satan 
was  dominant.  There  were  wars,  wars 
that  came  about  because  of  the  differ- 
ences in  religion  and  the  true  gospel 
itself  which  was  lost.  The  priesthood 
was  gone.  The  people  were  in  darkness. 

Proverbs  6:16-19  states: 

"These  six  things  doth  the  Lord  hate: 
yea,  seven  are  an  abomination  unto  him: 

"A  proud  look,  a  lying  tongue,  and 
hands  that  shed  innocent  blood, 

"An  heart  that  deviseth  wicked  im- 
aginations, feet  that  be  swift  in  running 
to  mischief," 

"A  false  witness  that  speaketh  lies, 
and  he  that  soweth  discord  among 
brethren." 

This  statement  applies  to  us  today  as 
well  as  it  did  to  the  people  almost  three 
thousand  years  ago. 

A  great  event  was  to  take  place,  as  I 
have  already  indicated  to  you,  when 
that  marvelous  apostle  made  it  very 
clear  that  in  the  last  days  as  he  said, 
"And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the 
midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting 
gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell 
on  the  earth.  .  .  ."  (Rev.  14:6.) 

A  young  man  who  was  desirous  to 
find  the  true  Church  made  it  a  matter 
of  prayer,  and  there  appeared  to  him 
the  Father  and  the  Son.  The  Father 
said  to  Joseph,  "This  is  My  Beloved  Son. 


L.  WIRTHL1N  13 

Hear  Him!"  Thereafter,  the  Prophet 
Joseph  received  the  direction  and  the 
authority  to  organize  the  Church.  Yes, 
he  received  the  priesthood  when  John 
the  Baptist  appeared  to  him.  He  also 
received  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood 
from  Peter,  James,  and  John,  the  apos- 
tles at  the  time  of  Christ.  The  golden 
plates  were  given  to  him,  which  gave 
the  history  of  America,  and  most  im- 
portant, they  contained  the  gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  its  fulness. 
The  Lord  intended  his  Church  should 
be  organized  again.  On  April  6,  1830, 
the  Church  was  organized.  Since  that 
time,  many  other  important  events  have 
taken  place.  There  was  the  erection  of 
the  temple  in  Kirtland,  Ohio,  and  many 
other  temples  since  then.  With  these 
wonderful  events,  you  can  come  to  but 
one  conclusion,  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  again 
made  available  for  all  of  the  sons  and 
daughters  of  our  Heavenly  Father  who 
now  live  upon  the  earth  and  those  who 
come  after  us. 

There  are  now  eight  thousand  young 
men  preaching  the  gospel  as  Timothy 
taught  it,  that  those  who  are  seeking  the 
truth  can  find  it  through  these  young 
missionaries  who  give  them  the  inspira- 
tion and  the  knowledge  that  the  Church 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  again  on 
the  earth. 

Our  American  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
made  a  statement  in  the  thirteenth  Arti- 
cle of  Faith  quite  comparable  to  what 
Paul  said  to  Timothy: 

"We  believe  in  being  honest,  true, 
chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in  do- 
ing good  to  all  men;  indeed,  we  may 
say  that  we  follow  the  admonition  of 
Paul — We  believe  all  things,  we  hope 
all  things,  we  have  endured  many 
things,  and  hope  to  be  able  to  endure 
all  things.  If  there  is  anything  virtuous, 
lovely,  or  of  good  report  or  praise- 
worthy, we  seek  after  these  things." 

And  as  the  Apostle  Paul  said  to 
Timothy,  "Let  no  man  despise  thy 
youth;  but  be  thou  an  example  of  the 
believers,  in  word,  in  conversation,  in 
charity,  in  spirit,  in  faith,  in  purity," 
(1  Tim.  4:12)  which  I  pray  will  be  a 
guide  to  all  the  sons  and  daughters  of 
our  Heavenly  Father.  This  I  ask  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


14  GENERAL 

Thursday,  April  6 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  the  Presid- 
ing Bishop  of  the  Church. 

The  Primary  Teachers  Chorus  and 
Congregation  will  now  join  in  singing 
"We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For  A 
Prophet." 


The  Primary  Teachers  Chorus  and 
the  congregation  joined  in  singing  the 
hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For 
A  Prophet." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  been  honored  and  greatly 
pleased  during  the  last  few  days  to  have 
in  the  City  as  guests,  Sir  Thomas  and 
Lady  Bennett.  Sir  Thomas  is  a  noted 
figure  in  the  British  industrial  world 
and  the  firm  he  heads  has  been  identi- 
fied with  many  prominent  building 
activities  in  the  British  Isles.  He  was 
created  Commander  of  the  Order  of  the 
British  Empire  in  1942;  Knight  Bachelor 


First  Day 

in  1946;  Knight  Commander  of  the 
Order  in  1954;  and  is  a  Fellow  of  the 
Royal  Society  of  British  Architects.  He 
is  also  a  Fellow  of  the  Royal  Society  of 
Arts,  Honorary  Fellow  of  the  Institute  of 
Decorators,  and  Honorary  Fellow  of  the 
Institute  of  Builders. 

He  was  a  co-worker  with  Edward  O. 
Anderson  in  building  the  London  Tem- 
ple. His  firm  built  the  Hyde  Park 
Chapel  in  London,  also  a  chapel  in 
Crawley,  a  little  town  near  the  London 
Temple,  and  he  is  connected  with  many 
other  buildings  in  the  British  Empire 
for  the  Church. 

Brother  Woodbury,  president  of  the 
British  Mission,  says:  "I  have  ap- 
proached him  not  only  on  building 
matters,  but  on  subjects  that  are  far 
afield  from  architectural  work.  Where 
I  needed  the  sincere  and  trusted  views 
of  a  Britisher  always  I  would  go  to 
Sir  Thomas." 

I  know  you  would  be  very  pleased  to 
hear  from  him  at  this  time.  It  gives 
me  great  pleasure  to  introduce  to  you 
Sir  Thomas  Bennett. 


SIR  THOMAS  BENNETT 


As  you  have  heard  from  the  President 
of  the  Church,  he  would  like  me  to  tell 
you  something  of  the  building  which 
the  Church  is  carrying  out  in  England 
and  of  the  association  which  the  Church 
has  allowed  me  to  have  with  them. 

My  first  contact  was  about  six  or 
seven  years  ago  with  President  Reiser 
who  was  then  President  of  the  British 
Mission,  and  he  had  secured  a  very  fine 
property  in  the  County  of  Surrey,  at  a 
place  called  Lingfield,  approximately 
thirty  miles  south  of  London,  for  the 
site  of  the  new  British  Temple.  The 
temple  was  designed  by  Edward  O. 
Anderson  of  this  city,  and  I  was  asked 
to  be  the  associate  architect  to  deal  with 
our  somewhat  complicated  planning  and 
other  laws,  the  choice  of  materials,  the 
translation  of  the  building  into  British 
methods  of  construction,  and  all  the 
things  that  go  with  bringing  a  success- 
ful building  from  the  design  stage  into 
actual  being  and  into  use. 

This  temple  grew.    It  was  built  of 


some  of  the  finest  of  English  material. 
It  is  in  a  fine  position,  backed  with  great 
trees,  and  eventually  was  beautifully 
landscaped.  Its  spire,  as  no  doubt  many 
of  you  know  from  seeing  illustrations, 
rises  high  above  the  podium.  It  is 
flood-lighted  at  night  and  it  stands  as  a 
beacon  in  that  part  of  the  English  coun- 
tryside for  everybody  to  see  where  the 
Mormon  temple  is. 

Before  it  was  dedicated,  something  of 
the  order  of  100,000  people  visited  the 
Church  in  order  that  they  might  see  the 
work  which  had  been  created  and  to 
have  some  contact  with  the  Church  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints. 

It  is  of  course  impossible  to  finish 
great  work  immediately,  and  Brother 
Mendenhall  is  planning,  in  conjunction 
with  Edward  Anderson  and  myself, 
further  alterations  of  the  main  east- 
borne  road  which  goes  past  the  temple, 
of  the  landscaping  immediately  in  front 
of  it,  already  additional  provision  for 
boys  and  girls,  and  for  a  chapel  at  the 


SIR  THOMAS  BENNETT 


15 


Bureau  of  Information,  and  for  certain 
other  work. 

But  this  was  only  the  beginning  of 
what  has  proved  to  be  a  very  wonder- 
ful connection.  Two  and  a  half  years 
ago  the  Building  Department  and  the 
then  president  secured  a  beautiful  site 
in  the  heart  of  a  very  distinguished  area 
of  London  itself,  known  to  us  as  South 
Kensington,  close  to  our  great  Hyde 
Park  in  the  middle  of  the  City,  in  the 
heart  of  the  district  which  includes 
many  fine  houses  and  many  fine  apart- 
ments. It  includes  the  great  Albert 
Hall,  which  is  the  greatest  concert  hall 
of  the  British  Isles.  It  is  close  to  the 
headquarters  of  the  College  of  Organists, 
the  Royal  School  of  Music,  the  Royal 
School  of  Arts,  and  the  Science  Muse- 
ums, Victoria  and  Albert  Museums,  a 
great  center  of  the  culture  of  London, 
and  on  that  site  we  were  asked  to  de- 
sign the  new  chapel  which  has  now 
become  known  as  the  Hyde  Park  Chapel. 
It  is  clear  that  such  a  chapel  means  a 
representation  not  merely  of  worship 
and  of  education  in  the  classrooms,  but 
of  the  visible  center  of  the  Mormon 
Church  in  London.  It  had,  therefore, 
to  be  a  building  which  was  recognizable 
as  a  Church,  but  not  confused  with 
other  churches  of  other  denominations. 
It  had  to  be  something  which  would 
have  a  personality  of  its  own.  We  built 
it  in  such  a  way  that  in  the  daytime 
with  the  vertical  bands  of  shadow  and 
stone  it  gives  a  feeling,  we  hope,  of 
aspiration,  which  is  significant  of  part 
of  the  thought  underlying  all  religions. 

On  the  top  of  the  tower  is  a  golden 
staff  typical  of  many  works  of  the 
Church  and  many  ideas  of  the  Church, 
of  the  principle  of  the  Good  Shepherd, 
of  the  sense  of  protection,  of  the  idea  of 
direction,  of  aspiration.  A  symbol  by 
day  in  gold  of  considerable  height  it 
rises  to  about  125  feet  to  the  tip,  and  at 
night  floodlighted  so  that  in  the  dark 
sky  you  can  see  the  golden  staff  held 
aloft  as  a  symbol  to  other  people,  a 
blaze  of  stained  glass  reflecting  beauti- 
ful colors  inside  and  outside  the  Church 
building. 

The  building  itself  had  to  represent 
the  worship  of  the  Church  and  the  edu- 
cation of  the  Church.   Because  it  can- 


not in  the  streets  of  London  have  a 
garden  setting,  it  has  a  garden  space  in 
which  flowers  will  be  maintained 
outside  the  Church  whenever  the  con- 
ditions of  weather  in  England  permit 
flowers  to  grow.  We  normally  have 
two  or  three  months  of  the  winter  in 
which  only  evergreens  will  survive  in 
the  open  air. 

The  Church  is  placed  above  the 
street  so  that  you  rise  to  it  by  a  flight 
of  broad  steps.  At  the  top  of  the  steps 
is  a  place  at  which  those  arriving  can 
pause  before  they  go  in,  and  leaving  can 
have  conversation  before  they  go  out. 

Inside  is  a  foyer  through  glass  doors 
of  which  you  can  see  the  chapel,  and 
as  part  of  the  chapel  the  First  Presi- 
dency decided  that  they  would  com- 
mission organ  builders  in  England  to 
build  the  finest,  or  one  of  the  finest, 
organs  built  since  the  war.  It  did  not 
attempt  of  course,  it  would  be  ridiculous 
if  it  did,  to  vie  with  the  size  of  the 
Albert  Hall  or  the  Festival  Hall  organs, 
but  as  an  organ  in  a  church  of  this  kind 
it  aims  to  be  the  most  perfect  instru- 
ment which  has  been  built  in  recent 
years.  It  is  a  three-manual  organ.  It 
has  something  upwards  of  2,500  pipes. 
It  is  intended,  in  an  area  which  is  the 
home  of  great  music,  to  be  able  to  give 
the  finest  music  to  those  students,  those 
residents,  those  other  people  who  may 
come,  as  well  as  to  members  of  the 
Church. 

Inside  the  Church,  of  course,  in  addi- 
tion to  the  Church  itself,  there  is  a 
council  hall,  there  are  rooms  for  the 
president,  there  are  rooms  for  instruc- 
tion, but  above  all  there  is  also  a  Relief 
Society  room,  a  small  echo  in  London 
of  the  great  building  which  you  have 
in  this  city,  an  echo,  coupled  with  many 
other  echoes  of  the  great  work  of  the 
Relief  Society  throughout  a  large  part 
of  the  world,  of  which  I  was  privileged 
yesterday  to  see  many  signs  in  the  wel- 
fare society's  building  here. 

Then,  spreading  from  the  Hyde  Park 
Chapel  we  are  designing  through  your 
instructions,  chapels  in  Crawley,  in 
Manchester,  in  Wales,  and  the  Building 
Department,  of  course,  has  a  very  much 
wider  program  which  spreads  over  a 
large  part  of  Europe.  This  is  perhaps 


16 

Thursday,  April  6 

something  which  may  come  to  you  from 
an  English  architect,  from  somebody 
who,  not  connected  with  your  Church, 
appreciates  the  vast  work  which  the 
Church  is  doing. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Thank  you,  Sir  Thomas.  And  may 
you  and  Your  Ladyship  have  a  most 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

delightful  and  memorable  visit  here 
among  the  people  in  Salt  Lake  City 
and  Utah.  If  there  is  anything  that 
we  can  do  to  make  your  visit  more 
delightful,  our  hearts  tell  you  truly, 
it  will  be  a  pleasure  for  us  to  do  it. 

Our  concluding  speaker  will  be 
Elder  Howard  W.  Hunter  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  HOWARD  W.  HUNTER 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Not  long  ago  we  were  traveling  through 
the  air  so  high  above  the  white  clouds 
that  they  looked  like  a  blanket  of  snow 
beneath  us.  The  sky  was  blue,  and  the 
sun  was  shining,  and  then  we  com- 
menced our  descent  for  landing.  As  we 
came  down  through  the  clouds,  a  new 
scene  came  into  view.  The  earth  had 
been  plowed  for  planting,  and  the  sun 
was  shining  on  the  fields,  some  plowed 
in  one  direction  and  some  in  another. 
It  made  the  earth  appear  as  a  great  giant 
checkerboard.  We  came  down  and 
down  and  then,  when  within  a  few 
hundred  feet  of  the  ground,  I  saw  a  man 
laboring  in  the  field,  his  hands  fixed  to 
a  plow  drawn  by  a  horse.  My  thoughts 
turned  to  that  closing  verse  in  the  ninth 
chapter  of  Luke  in  which  the  Master 
said: 

"No  man,  having  put  his  hand  to 
the  plough,  and  looking  back,  is  fit  for 
the  kingdom  of  God."  (Luke  9:62.) 

Christ  made  this  statement  as  he 
traveled  to  Jerusalem.  Three  men  had 
expressed  their  willingness  to  follow 
him  and  become  his  disciples.  The  first 
of  these  said  to  him:  "Lord,  I  will  fol- 
low thee  whithersoever  thou  goest. 

"And  Jesus  said  unto  him,  Foxes  have 
holes,  and  birds  of  the  air  have  nests; 
but  the  Son  of  man  hath  not  where  to 
lay  his  head."  (Ibid.,  9:57-58.) 

Jesus  had  no  definite  place  of  resi- 
dence. He  went  from  place  to  place 
teaching  and  doing  good.  It  was 
necessary  that  the  men  who  were  called 
and  set  apart  for  the  work  should  devote 
their  time  and  attention  and  forego 
worldly  affairs.  The  work  of  the  Master 
set  the  great  example.  The  second  man 


was  also  willing  to  follow.  "But  he  said, 
Lord,  suffer  me  first  to  go  and  bury  my 
father. 

"Jesus  said  unto  him,  Let  the  dead 
bury  their  dead:  but  go  thou  and  preach 
the  kingdom  of  God."  (Ibid.,  9:59-60.) 

Does  this  statement  sound  severe? 
The  Master  made  it  clear  that  the  work 
of  the  kingdom  was  to  take  precedence 
over  all  other  things.  Then  the  third 
man  stepped  forward  and  said:  "Lord,  I 
will  follow  thee;  but  let  me  first  go  bid 
them  farewell,  which  are  at  home  at 
my  house."  (Ibid.,  9:61.) 

Not  one  of  the  three  was  willing  to 
follow  him  without  first  returning  to 
their  worldly  affairs.  The  answer  of 
Jesus  is  one  of  the  great  aphorisms  of 
biblical  literature.  "No  man,  having 
put  his  hand  to  the  plough,  and  looking 
back,  is  fit  for  the  kingdom  of  God." 
(Ibid.,  9:62.) 

In  his  teachings  the  Master  used 
homely  figures  of  speech,  those  having 
familiar,  everyday  character.  The  words, 
"his  hand  to  the  plough,"  unfolds  a 
picture  before  us  with  which  we  are  all 
familiar — a  strong  man  with  sinewy 
arms  and  a  firm  step,  guiding  the  blade 
straight  and  true,  his  eyes  intent  upon 
the  plough,  looking  ahead  to  the  furrow 
to  be  cut.  Hour  after  hour  he  toils, 
never  looking  backward  except  to  see 
that  the  furrow  is  straight. 

In  addition  to  "ploughing"  the  Lord 
often  mentioned  the  words,  "sowing"  and 
"reaping."  He  made  mention  of  "reap- 
ing the  harvest,"  and  when  that  comes 
to  our  minds  we  think  of  a  happy  time 
and  a  time  of  rejoicing.  The  Lord  said: 
"Lift  up  your  eyes,  and  look  on  the 


ELDER  HOW  A, 

fields;  for  they  are  white  already  to 
harvest. 

"And  he  that  reapeth  receiveth  wages, 
and  gathereth  fruit  unto  life  eternal: 
that  both  he  that  soweth  and  he  that 
reapeth  may  rejoice  together."  (John 
4:35-36.) 

Before  there  can  be  a  reaping  of  the 
harvest,  there  must  have  been  a  sowing 
of  the  seed.  When  we  think  of  sowing, 
our  minds  turn  to  the  parable  spoken 
by  the  Savior: 

"Behold,  a  sower  went  forth  to  sow; 

"And  when  he  sowed,  some  seeds  fell 
by  the  way  side,  and  the  fowls  came  and 
devoured  them  up: 

"Some  fell  upon  stony  places,  where 
they  had  not  much  earth:  and  forthwith 
they  sprung  up,  because  they  had  no 
deepness  of  earth: 

"And  when  the  sun  was  up,  they  were 
scorched;  and  because  they  had  no  root, 
they  withered  away. 

"And  some  fell  among  thorns;  and 
the  thorns  sprung  up,  and  choked  them: 

"But  others  fell  into  good  ground,  and 
brought  forth  fruit,  some  an  hundred- 
fold, some  sixtyfold,  some  thirtyfold." 
(Matthew  13:3-8.) 

Sowing  of  seed  is  important;  other- 
wise, there  would  be  no  harvest,  and  as 
stated  in  the  parable,  there  must  be  good 
ground  to  bring  forth  a  good  harvest. 
Plowing  must  have  been  done  before 
the  sowing  or  there  would  have  been 
no  seedbed. 

Of  all  the  work  of  the  field,  plow- 
work  is  the  heaviest  labor.  It  is  primary 
and  fundamental — it  is  pioneer  toil.  A 
seed  may  be  dropped  anywhere,  and 
there  is  no  resistance,  but  put  the  blade 
of  the  plow  into  the  ground  and  a 
thousand  forces  join  to  oppose  the 
change.  To  disturb  the  conventional, 
to  overturn  the  traditional,  or  to  attempt 
to  make  changes  in  the  deep-rooted  way 
of  doing  things  in  the  lives  of  indi- 
viduals, requires  toil  and  sweat.  The 
heaviest  work  in  the  kingdom  of  God  is 
to  turn  the  hard  surface  of  the  earth 
which  has  been  baked  in  the  sun  or 
covered  by  the  growth  of  nature.  What 
a  great  change  comes  over  land  which 
has  been  cleared  and  plowed, — row  after 
row  of  evenly  spaced  furrows,  the  sub- 
surface loosened  and  exposed  to  the 


3  W.  HUNTER  17 

sun  and  air  and  the  rains  from  heaven, 
ready  to  be  broken  up  and  planted  to 
seed.  The  wilderness  is  conquered  and 
subdued. 

Those  who  become  disciples  of  the 
Master  and  put  their  hands  to  the  plow 
without  turning  back  prove  themselves 
to  be  worthy  plowmen.  By  turning  over 
the  old  surfaces  of  tradition,  they  pre- 
pared the  fields  for  the  introduction  and 
the  spread  of  Christianity  into  the 
world. 

We  do  not  need  to  go  back  to  the 
time  of  Christ,  however,  to  find  fields 
to  plow.  Fields  exist  today  all  over 
the  world,  and  missionaries  have  been 
called  and  have  put  their  hands  to  the 
plow.  Nearly  15,000  stake  and  full-time 
missionaries  are  now  in  the  fields. 
Furrows  are  being  cut  and  seeds  planted, 
and  every  day  we  see  the  results  of  the 
harvest. 

And  there  is  the  field  of  education. 
Hundreds  of  plowmen  are  preparing  the 
field  for  the  harvest.  They  are  teaching 
the  principles  of  truth  to  our  young 
men  and  young  women  in  the  Church 
educational  system.  About  63,000  high 
school  students  are  presently  enrolled  in 
seminary  classes,  9,500  college  students 
are  participating  in  the  institute  program 
of  religious  education,  and  approxi- 
mately 17,000  students  are  enrolled  in 
Church  schools.  In  all,  about  90,000 
young  people  are  being  given  direction 
in  life  by  those  who  have  put  their 
hands  to  the  plow. 

Not  many  years  ago  we  entered  into 
the  field  of  assisting  those  in  need  by 
the  great  welfare  program.  The  plow- 
shares were  driven  in  and  the  soil 
turned  over,  disclosing  the  hidden  possi- 
bilities of  our  arising  to  full  stature  in 
being  our  brothers'  keeper.  Men  and 
women  have  joined  in  the  labor  of  the 
field,  and  thousands  have  been  helped 
and  aided  in  the  Lord's  way,  when  in 
need. 

We  have  in  Church  leadership  great 
plowmen  with  firm  hands  and  stout 
hearts — stake  presidents  and  mission 
presidents — determined  men  who  work 
in  the  fields.  Bishops,  branch  presi- 
dents, heads  of  priesthood  quorums  and 
auxiliary  organizations  are  toiling  in 
their  assigned  fields.  Close  at  home  and 


18 

Thursday,  April  6 

in  distant  countries  new  lands  are  being 
broken  up  by  these  plowmen,  and  the 
subsurface  exposed  to  the  light  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Is  it  hard  work?  Of  course,  but  that 
which  is  worthwhile  is  seldom  easy.  As 
individuals  we  have  a  responsibility  to 
plow.  Some  accept  the  opportunity,  but 
some  shrink  from  the  responsibility. 
Some  of  those  who  commence  cut  only 
a  short  furrow  and  then  leave  the  field 
for  what  appears  to  be  escape  from  the 
toil  to  follow  the  false  illusion  of  the 
ease  which  they  had  left  behind.  Their 
plowshares  are  left  to  rust  in  the  furrow. 

Whatever  the  past  may  have  been  in 
our  individual  lives,  it  is  gone.  The 
future  lies  ahead,  and  we  must  face  it 
with  resolution.  There  is  always  a  point 
from  which  we  can  begin.  Even  though 
we  may  have  been  faithful  in  the  past, 
if  we  turn  away,  that  faithfulness  will 
profit  us  nothing.  "No  man,  having  put 
his  hand  to  the  plough,  and  looking 
back,  is  fit  for  the  kingdom  of  God." 

There  is  danger  in  looking  backward. 
One  must  keep  his  eyes  ahead  in  order 
to  cut  a  straight  furrow.  When  the 
plowman  commences  to  look  backward, 
he  cuts  a  crooked  furrow,  and  his  work  is 
spoiled.  We  cannot  continue  to  walk 
forward  when  at  the  same  time  we 
are  looking  backward.  It  makes  no 
difference  what  object  or  occasion 
causes  us  to  look  backward,  the  back- 
ward glance  commences  the  backward 
turning,  and  may  be  the  beginning  of 
our  disendowment  in  the  kingdom  of 
God. 

As  plowing  requires  an  eye  intent  on 
the  furrow  to  be  made  and  is  marred 
when  one  looks  backward,  so  will  they 
come  short  of  exaltation  who  prosecute 
the  work  of  God  with  a  distracted  at- 
tention or  a  divided  heart.  We  may  not 
see  clearly  the  end  of  the  furrow,  but 
we  dare  not  look  back.  Eternity 
stretches  on  ahead,  challenging  us  to  be 
faithful. 

"And  thus,  if  ye  are  faithful  ye  shall 
be  laden  with  many  sheaves,  and 
crowned  with  honor,  and  glory,  and 
immortality,  and  eternal  life."  (D&C 
75:5.) 

God  lives.  I  witness  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ;  that  the  gospel  has  been  re- 
turned to  the  earth;  that  Joseph  Smith 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

was  the  servant  and  prophet  raised  up 
for  the  purpose  of  the  restoration;  that 
there  lives  today  a  prophet  to  reveal 
to  us  God's  will  in  all  things,  and  with 
all  my  heart  I  sustain  President  David 
O.  McKay  as  that  prophet,  seer,  and 
revel  ator. 

May  we  put  our  hands  to  the  plow 
and  not  look  backward,  that  we  may  be 
fit  for  a  place  in  the  kingdom  of  God,  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Howard  W.  Hunter  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 

The  Primary  Teachers  Chorus  will 
now  favor  us  with  "Beautiful  Savior." 
Please  note  that  designation — "Primary 
Teachers."  They  are  representing  a 
large  group  of  teachers  throughout  the 
entire  Church  who  are  leading  into  the 
light  of  truth,  in  righteous  conduct, 
upright  living,  tens  of  thousands- 
hundreds  of  thousands —  of  your  chil- 
dren under  12  years  of  age.  What  a 
force  for  good  I  Teachers,  we  welcome 
you,  not  only  as  singers,  but  as  keepers 
of  the  souls  of  our  children. 

You  have  heard  the  Presiding  Bish- 
opric. They  keep  charge  of  all  young 
boys  from  12  up  to  21 — hundreds  of 
thousands  under  their  instruction.  You 
will  hear  this  afternoon,  and  have  a 
chance  to  vote  for  those  other  officers 
throughout  the  Church  who  are 
watchers  on  the  towers  of  Zion. 

Our  hearts  go  out  in  gratitude  to 
God  for  the  organization  of  this 
Church,  and  the  protection  it  gives  to 
the  children  and  youth  of  Zion,  and 
to  all  who  are  responsible  for  the 
establishing  of  peace  on  earth  and 
good  will  towards  men. 

The  Primary  Teachers'  Chorus  will 
now  favor  us  with  "Beautiful  Savior," 
conducted  by  Sister  Lue  Groesbeck. 
The  benediction  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  George  B.  Glade,  president  of 
the  Park  Stake,  after  which  this  Con- 
ference will  stand  adjourned  until  2 
o'clock  this  afternoon.  The  music 
this  afternoon  will  be  furnished  also 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


19 


by  the  Primary  Teachers  Chorus. 
Elder  Roy  M.  Darley  is  at  the  organ. 

Singing  by  the  Primary  Teachers 
Chorus,  "Beautiful  Savior." 


Elder  George  B.  Glade,  president  of 
the  Park  Stake,  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  second  session  of  the  Conference 
convened  promptly  at  2  o'clock  p.m., 
Thursday,  April  6,  with  President  David 
O.  McKay  presiding  and  conducting  the 
services. 

The  Primary  Teachers  Chorus  from 
19  stakes  of  Utah  County,  with  Sister 
Lue  Groesbeck  directing,  furnished  the 
music  for  this  session.  Alexander 
Schreiner  was  at  the  organ  console. 

President  McKay  made  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City  in  the  second 
general  session  of  the  One  Hundred 
Thirty-First  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

There  are  present  on  the  rostrum  this 
afternoon  all  the  General  Authorities 
excepting  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 
who  is  remaining  at  home  on  the  ad- 
vice of  his  physician;  Elder  Hugh  B. 
Brown,  who  is  in  South  Africa;  Elder 
Alvin  R.  Dyer,  presiding  over  the  Euro- 
pean Mission;  and  Elder  A.  Theodore 
Tuttle,  in  South  America.  You  will  be 
pleased  to  know  also  that  we  are  hon- 
ored this  afternoon  by  the  presence  of 
His  Excellency,  Tage  Erlander,  the  Prime 
Minister  of  Sweden  and  his  wife; 
His  Excellency,  the  Ambassador  from 
Sweden  to  the  United  States,  and  their 
party.  We  understand  their  time  is 
limited  not  only  here  at  Conference, 
but  in  the  City  and  State,  and  an  ap- 
pointment with  the  governor  will 
necessitate  their  leaving  the  meeting. 
We  welcome  them  and  feel  honored 
they  have  come  to  spend  a  few  mo- 
ments with  us. 

This  second  session  of  the  Confer- 


ence is  being  broadcast  as  a  public 
service  over  television  and  radio  sta- 
tions throughout  the  West.  To  the 
owners  and  managers  of  these  various 
stations  we  express  again  our  thanks 
and  sincere  appreciation.  These  serv- 
ices are  also  being  broadcast  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall. 
The  Tabernacle  is  filled  to  overflow- 
ing this  afternoon,  and  many  are  lis- 
tening by  radio  and  television. 

We  acknowledge  the  presence  of 
many  stake  presidencies,  high  council- 
men,  bishoprics,  temple  presidencies, 
General  Auxiliary  officers,  and  patri- 
archs. We  also  extend  a  hearty  wel- 
come and  express  satisfaction  and 
pleasure  in  the  attendance  of  special 
guests  and  prominent  men  in  the  na- 
tion and  state. 

As  before,  this  Conference  is  broad- 
cast over  television  and  radio  stations 
throughout  the  West.  The  names  of 
these  stations  were  announced  prior 
to  the  opening  of  this  meeting. 

Again  we  are  favored  by  the  pres- 
ence of  a  Primary  Teachers  Chorus 
occupying  the  seats  of  the  Choir.  The 
members  of  this  chorus  are  from  19 
stakes  of  Utah  County,  with  Sister  Lue 
Groesbeck  conducting  and  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Primary  Teachers  Chorus  singing,  "Oh, 
How  Lovely  Was  The  Morning."  The 
invocation  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Joseph  F.  Steenblik,  president  of  the 
Rose  Park  Stake. 

The  Primary  Teachers  Chorus  sang 
the  hymn,  "Oh,  How  Lovely  Was  The 
Morning." 

Elder  Joseph  F.  Steenblik,  president  of 
the  Rose  Park  Stake,  offered  the  open- 
ing prayer. 


20 

Thursday,  April  6 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Primary  Teachers  Chorus  will 
now  favor  us  with,  "Lift  Thine  Eyes 
To  The  Mountains,"  conducted  by 
Sister  Lue  Groesbeck.  After  the  sing- 
ing, Elder  Joseph  W.  Anderson,  Clerk 
of  the  Conference,  will  read  the  vital 
statistical  data  of  the  Church. 

The  Primary  Teachers  Chorus  sang 
the  anthem,  "Lift  Thine  Eyes  To  The 
Mountains,"  conducted  by  Sister  Lue 
Groesbeck. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Joseph  Anderson  will  now  present 
vital  statistics. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  then  read  statistical  data: 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 
TEMPLE,  MISSION,  STAKE,  WARD, 
AND  BRANCH  ORGANIZATIONS 
SINCE  OCTOBER  CONFERENCE, 
1960 

TEMPLE  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

New  Zealand  Temple:  John  B. 
Hawkes,  to  succeed  E.  Albert  Rosenvall. 

NEW  MISSIONS  ORGANIZED 

Alaskan-Canadian  Mission 
Central  British  Mission 
Central  German  Mission 
Eastern  Atlantic  States  Mission 
Florida  Mission 
French  East  Mission 
Rarotonga  Mission 
Scottish-Irish  Mission 
Texas  Mission 

MISSION  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Alaskan-Canadian  Mission:  Milton 
L.  Weilenmann. 

Brazilian  South  Mission:  Finn  B. 
Paulsen,  to  succeed  Asael  T.  Sorensen. 

Central  British  Mission:  James  A. 
Cullimore. 

Central  German  Mission:  Stephen 
C.  Richards. 

French  East  Mission:  Henry  D. 
Moyle,  Jr. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

Gulf  States  Mission:  M.  Ross  Rich- 
ards, to  succeed  Lincoln  F.  Hanks. 

New  Zealand  Mission:  H.  Clay 
Cummings,  to  succeed  Robert  L.  Simp- 
son. 

New  Zealand  South  Mission:  Fred 
W.  Schwendiman,  to  succeed  Alex  P. 
Anderson. 

North  British  Mission:  Grant  S. 
Thorn,  to  succeed  Bernard  P.  Brock- 
bank. 

Northwestern  States  Mission:  Don 
C.  Wood,  to  succeed  Franklin  D. 
Richards. 

Norwegian  Mission:  Joseph  A.  Gun- 
dersen,  to  succeed  Ray  Engebretsen. 

Rarotonga  Mission:  Joseph  R.  Reeder. 

Samoan  Mission:  John  Phillip  Hanks, 
to  succeed  Charles  I.  Sampson. 

Scottish-Irish  Mission:  Bernard  P. 
Brockbank. 

South  German  Mission:  Blythe  M. 
Gardner,  to  succeed  T.  Quentin  Can- 
non. 

Southern  Australian  Mission:  Bruce 
R.  McConkie,  to  succeed  John  O. 
Simonsen. 

Texas  Mission:  Ralph  J.  Hill. 

West  German  Mission:  Royal  K. 
Hunt,  to  succeed  Stephen  C.  Richards. 

NEW  STAKES  ORGANIZED 

Ben  Lomond  South  Stake  organized 
November  20,  1960  by  division  of  Ben 
Lomond  Stake. 

Brisbane  Stake  organized  October  23, 

1960  from  the  Australian  Mission. 
Cedar  West  Stake  organized  Novem- 
ber 27,  1960  by  division  of  Cedar  Stake. 

Craig  Stake  organized  January  15, 

1961  by  division  of  Grand  Junction 
Stake. 

Edmonton  Stake  organized  Novem- 
ber 15,  1960  from  the  Western 
Canadian  Mission. 

Granger  North  Stake  organized  Feb- 
ruary 26,  1961  by  division  of  Granger 
Stake. 

Hamilton  Stake  organized  November 
13,  1960  by  division  of  Auckland  Stake 
and  the  New  Zealand  Mission. 

Hawkes  Bay  Stake  organized  Novem- 
ber 20,  1960  from  the  New  Zealand 
South  Mission. 

Holland  Stake  organized  March  12, 
1961  from  the  Netherlands  Mission. 


CHANGES  IN  CHUR 

Las  Vegas  North  Stake  organized 
November  6,  1960  by  division  of  Las 
Vegas  Stake. 

Leeds  Stake  organized  March  19, 
1961  by  division  of  Manchester  Stake 
and  the  British  Mission. 

Leicester  Stake  organized  March  5, 
1961  from  the  British  Mission. 

London  Stake  organized  February  26, 
1961  from  the  British  Mission. 

Melbourne  Stake  organized  October 
30,  1960  from  the  Southern  Australian 
Mission. 

Miami  Stake  organized  November 
13,  1960  from  the  Southern  States  Mis- 
sion. 

Minnesota  Stake  organized  November 
29,  1960  from  the  North  Central  States 
Mission. 

Oklahoma  Stake  organized  October 
23,  1960  from  the  Central  States  Mis- 
sion. 

Palomar  Stake  organized  November 
6,  1960  from  the  California  Mission. 

Philadelphia  Stake  organized  Octo- 
ber 16,  1960  from  the  Eastern  States 
Mission. 

Redding  Stake  organized  December 
13,  1960  from  the  Northern  California 
Mission. 

Roy  Stake  organized  March  26,  1961 
by  division  of  Lake  View  Stake. 

St.  George  East  Stake  organized 
February  5,  1961  by  division  of  St. 
George  Stake. 

Salem  Stake  organized  January  22, 
1961  by  division  of  Willamette  and 
Portland  Stakes  and  the  Northwestern 
States  Mission. 

Vancouver  Stake  organized  Novem- 
ber 21,  1960  from  the  Western  Cana- 
dian Mission. 

Winter  Quarters  Stake  organized 
December  11,  1960  from  the  Central 
States  Mission. 

STAKE  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Auckland  Stake:  William  Roberts,  to 
succeed  George  R.  Biesinger. 

Ben  Lomond  South  Stake:  Robert 
Milton  Yorgason. 

Brisbane  Stake:  William  Edward 
Waters. 

Calgary  Stake:  Charles  Ursenbach, 
to  succeed  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner. 


H  ORGANIZATIONS  21 

Carbon  Stake:  Duane  Anderson 
Frandsen,  to  succeed  Elton  L.  Taylor. 

Cassia  Stake:  Wade  Baker,  to  suc- 
ceed Winslow  B.  Whiteley. 

Cedar  Stake:  Alfred  E.  Whatcott,  to 
succeed  Elwood  J.  Corry. 

Cedar  West  Stake:  Franklin  D.  Day. 

Craig  Stake:  Loyal  Bain  Cook. 

East  Rigby  Stake:  George  Lloyd 
Lovell,  to  succeed  Leonard  E.  Graham. 

Edmonton  Stake:  Leroy  Rollins. 

Florida  Stake:  Henry  V.  Jenkins,  to 
succeed  Alvin  C.  Chace. 

Grand  Junction  Stake:  Lark  L.  Wash- 
burn, to  succeed  Loyal  Bain  Cook. 

Granger  North  Stake:  Frankland  J. 
Kennard. 

Hamilton  Stake:  Wendell  Haslam 
Wiser. 

Hawkes  Bay  Stake:  Joseph  Alvin 
Higbee. 

Holland  Stake:  Johan  P.  Jongkees. 

Kearns  North  Stake:  Jack  Raymond 
Prince,  to  succeed  Volma  W.  Heaton. 

Lake  View  Stake:  Floyd  David 
Fowers,  to  succeed  Henry  A.  Matis. 

Las  Vegas  North  Stake:  William 
Lorin  Taylor. 

Leeds  Stake:  Dennis  Livesey. 

Leicester  Stake:  Derek  A.  Cuthbert. 

London  Stake:  Donald  W.  Heming- 
way. 

Melbourne  Stake:  Boyd  C.  Bott. 
Miami   Stake:  Paul  Robert  Chees- 
man. 

Minnesota  Stake:  Delbert  F.  Wright. 

Nyssa  Stake:  Dehlin  A.  Erickson,  to 
succeed  Arvel  L.  Child. 

Oklahoma  Stake:  James  Alfred  Culli- 
more;  William  L.  Waldrop,  to  succeed 
James  Alfred  Cullimore. 

Oneida  Stake:  Carl  Anders  Morten- 
sen,  to  succeed  Shirley  M.  Palmer. 

Palomar  Stake:  Wallace  F.  Gray. 

Philadelphia  Stake:  Bryan  F.  West. 

Redding  Stake:  Albert  C.  Peterson. 

Roy  Stake:  Henry  A.  Matis. 

St.  George  Stake:  Andrew  O.  Mc- 
Arthur,  to  succeed  Rudger  C.  Atkin. 

St.  George  East  Stake:  Rudger  C. 
Atkin. 

Salem  Stake:  Hugh  F.  Webb. 

Seattle  Stake:  F.  Arthur  Kay,  to  suc- 
ceed Layton  B.  Jones. 

Sharon  Stake:  Alma  P.  Burton,  to 
succeed  Philo  T.  Edwards. 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Thursday,  April  6 

Shreveport  Stake:  Karl  Anthony 
Snow,  to  succeed  J.  Milton  Belisle. 

Teton  Stake:  LaGrande  C.  Larson,  to 
succeed  William  A.  Strong. 

Utah  Stake:  Fred  Lewis  Markham,  to 
succeed  Victor  J.  Bird. 

Vancouver  Stake:  Ernest  E.  Jensen. 

Winter  Quarters  Stake:  William 
Duard  Hardy. 

NEW  WARDS  ORGANIZED 

Big  Horn  Stake:  Meeteetse  Ward, 
formerly  Meeteetse  Branch. 

Bountiful  North  Stake:  Bountiful 
Nineteenth  Ward,  formed  by  division 
of  Bountiful  Thirteenth  Ward. 

Brisbane  Stake:  Brisbane,  Brisbane 
Second  and  Third,  Ipswich,  Toowoom- 
ba  Wards,  formerly  branches  in  the 
Australian  Mission. 

Cedar  West  Stake:  CSU  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Cedar 
Ninth  Ward. 

Cincinnati  Stake:  Cincinnati  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Cincinnati 
Ward. 

Denver  West  Stake:  Golden  Ward, 
formerly  Golden  Branch. 

East  Los  Angeles  Stake:  Montebello 
Second  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Montebello  and  Eastmont  Wards. 

East  Mesa  Stake:  Mesa  Nineteenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Mesa 
Seventeenth  Ward. 

East  Pocatello  Stake:  College  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  College 
Ward. 

Edmonton  Stake:  Edmonton  First, 
Second,  Third,  Fourth,  and  University 
Wards,  formerly  branches  in  the  West- 
ern Canadian  Mission. 

Fresno  Stake:  Fresno  Fifth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Fresno  Third 
Ward;  Atwater  Ward,  formerly  At- 
water  Branch. 

Grand  Junction  Stake:  Naturita 
Ward,  formerly  a  branch  in  the  West- 
ern States  Mission. 

Hamilton  Stake:  Rotorua  and  Tau- 
ranga  Wards,  formerly  branches  in  the 
New  Zealand  Mission. 

Hawkes  Bay  Stake:  Hastings,  Hast- 
ings Second,  Korongata,  Napier,  Nuh- 
aka,  Te  Hauke,  and  Wairoa  Wards, 


First  Day 

formerly  branches  in  the  New  Zealand 
South  Mission. 

Holladay  Stake:  Holladay  Eighteenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Holladay 
Fourth  Ward. 

Holland  Stake:  Amsterdam  East, 
Amsterdam  West,  Rotterdam  North, 
Rotterdam  South,  and  The  Hague 
Wards,  formerly  branches  in  the 
Netherlands  Mission. 

Lake  View  Stake:  Roy  Tenth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Roy  First  Ward. 

Las  Vegas  Stake:  Las  Vegas  Twelfth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Las  Vegas 
Ninth  Ward. 

Las  Vegas  North  Stake:  Las  Vegas 
Thirteenth  Ward,  formed  by  division 
of  Las  Vegas  Eleventh  Ward. 

Leeds  Stake:  Doncaster  and  Shef- 
field Wards,  formerly  branches  in  the 
British  Mission. 

Leicester  Stake:  Derby,  Nottingham, 
Leicester,  Birmingham,  Coventry,  and 
Eastwood  Wards,  formerly  branches 
in  the  British  Mission. 

London  Stake:  Crawley,  Hyde  Park, 
Luton,  North  London,  South  London, 
and  St.  Albans  Wards,  formerly 
branches  in  the  British  Mission. 

Lorin  Farr  Stake:  Ogden  Sixty- 
fourth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Ogden  Forty-fifth  Ward. 

Manchester  Stake:  Radcliffe  Ward, 
formerly  Radcliffe  Branch;  Burnley, 
Manchester  South,  and  Preston  Wards, 
formerly  branches  in  the  British  Mis- 
sion. 

Maricopa  Stake:  Mesa  Twentieth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Mesa 
Sixteenth  Ward;  University  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  University 
Ward. 

Melbourne  Stake:  Fairfield,  Moor- 
abbin,  Blackburn  Wards,  formerly 
branches  in  the  Southern  Australian 
Mission. 

Miami  Stake:  Ft.  Lauderdale,  Miami, 
Miami  Second,  Miami  Third,  and  West 
Palm  Beach  Wards,  formerly  branches 
in  the  Southern  States  Mission. 

Minnesota  Stake:  Minneapolis,  Min- 
neapolis Second,  Third,  and  Fourth, 
St.  Paul,  St.  Paul  Second  Wards,  form- 
erly branches  in  the  North  Central 
States  Mission. 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  ORGANIZATIONS 


23 


Mt.  Rubidoux  Stake:  Corona  Ward, 
formerly  Corona  Branch. 

Oklahoma  Stake:  Lawton,  Midwest 
City,  Oklahoma  City,  South  Oklahoma 
City,  and  Stillwater  Wards,  formerly 
branches  in  the  Central  States  Mission. 

Olympus  Stake:  Holladay  Seven- 
teenth Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Holladay  Sixth  and  Ninth  Wards. 

Orlando  Stake:  Orlando  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Orlando 
Ward. 

Palo  Alto  Stake:  Stanford  University 
Ward,  formed  from  various  Wards. 

Palomar  Stake:  Escondido,  Fallbrook, 
Oceanside,  Poway,  San  Dieguito,  and 
Vista  Wards,  formerly  banches  in  the 
California  Mission. 

Philadelphia  Stake:  Audubon,  Phila- 
delphia, Valley  Forge,  Wilmington,  and 
Wyncote  Wards,  formerly  branches  in 
the  Eastern  States  Mission. 

Portland  Stake:  Portland  Eleventh 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Gresham 
Ward;  Portland  Twelfth  Ward,  formed 
by  division  of  Portland  First  Ward; 
Tualatin  Valley  Ward,  formed  by  divi- 
sion of  West  Hills  Ward. 

Redding  Stake:  Anderson,  Central 
Valley,  Red  Bluff,  and  Redding  wards, 
formerly  branches  in  the  Northern 
California  Mission. 

Reno  Stake:  Mt.  Rose  Second  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Mt.  Rose  Ward; 
Reno  Second  Ward,  formed  by  division 
of  Reno  Ward;  University  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Reno  Ward. 

Reseda  Stake:  Woodland  Hills  Sec- 
ond Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Wood- 
land Hills  Ward. 

Rexburg  Stake:  College  Second  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  College  First 
Ward. 

Riverdale  Stake:  Washington  Ter- 
race Sixth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Washington  Terrace  Third  Ward. 

Sacramento  Stake:  Sacramento  Sev- 
enth Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Sacramento  Second  Ward;  Sacramento 
Sixth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Sacramento  First  and  Fifth  Wards. 

St.  George  Stake:  Dixie  College  Ward, 
formed  from  various  Wards;  St.  George 
Eighth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
St.  George  Second  and  Third  Wards. 

St.  George  East  Stake:  St.  George 


Seventh  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
St.  George  Sixth  Ward. 

San  Fernando  Stake:  Sherman  Oaks 
Second  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Sherman  Oaks  Ward. 

San  Joaquin  Stake:  Modesto  Third 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Modesto 
Ward. 

San  Jose  Stake:  San  Jose  Fifth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  San  Jose  Third 
Ward. 

Santa  Ana  Stake:  Garden  Grove 
Fourth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Garden  Grove  Ward;  Westminster 
Second  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Westminster  Ward. 

South  Ogden  Stake:  Ogden  Sixty- 
Fifth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Ogden  Fifty-Eighth  Ward. 

Sydney  Stake:  Parramatta  Ward, 
formerly  Parramatta  Branch. 

Tacoma  Stake:  Tacoma  Seventh 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Tacoma 
Second  and  Third  Wards. 

Taylor  Stake:  Warner  Ward,  form- 
erly Warner  Branch. 

Taylorsville  Stake:  Taylorsville  Fifth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Taylors- 
ville Ward. 

Tucson  Stake:  Hayden  Ward,  form- 
erly Hayden  Branch;  Tucson  Sixth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Tucson 
Second  Ward;  Tucson  Seventh  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Tucson  Fourth 
Ward. 

Twin  Falls  Stake:  Twin  Falls  Eighth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Twin 
Falls  Fourth  and  Sixth  Wards. 

University  Stake:  University  Eighth 
Ward,  formed  from  various  Wards. 

Vancouver  Stake:  Chilliwack,  Fleet- 
wood, Langley,  New  Westminster, 
North  Shore,  Richmond,  Vancouver 
First  and  Second,  and  White  Rock 
Wards,  formerly  branches  in  the  West- 
ern Canadian  Mission. 

Walnut  Creek  Stake:  Danville  Ward, 
formerly  Danville  Branch. 

West  Boise  Stake:  Boise  Fourteenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Boise 
Seventh  Ward. 

West  Covina  Stake:  Los  Altos  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  La  Puente  and 
La  Puente  Second  Wards;  West  Covina 
Second  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
West  Covina  Ward. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


24 

Thursday,  April  6 

Willamette  Stake:  Cottage  Grove 
Ward,  formerly  Cottage  Grove  Branch. 

Winder  Stake:  Winder  Sixth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Mill  Creek  Ninth 
Ward. 

Winter  Quarters  Stake:  Bellevue, 
Council  Bluffs,  Lincoln,  Omaha  First 
and  Second  Wards,  formerly  branches 
in  the  Central  States  Mission. 

Woodruff  Stake:  Upper  Green  River 
Ward,  formerly  Upper  Green  River 
Branch. 

WARDS  AND  BRANCHES 
TRANSFERRED 

Albuquerque  Stake:  Albuquerque- 
Lamanite  Branch,  formerly  of  the 
Southwest  Indian  Mission;  Spanish- 
America  Branch,  formerly  of  the  Span- 
ish American  Mission. 

Ben  Lomond  South  Stake:  Ogden 
Twenty-Ninth,  Fortieth,  Forty-Eighth, 
Fifty-Fourth,  Fifty-Ninth,  Sixty-Second, 
and  Sixty-Third  Wards,  formerly  of 
the  Ben  Lomond  Stake. 

Brisbane  Stake:  Brisbane,  Brisbane 
Second  and  Third,  Ipswich,  Toowoom- 
ba  Wards;  Bundaberg,  Chermside, 
Nambour,  and  Southport  Branches, 
formerly  of  the  Australian  Mission. 

Cedar  West  Stake:  Cedar  Second, 
Sixth,  Seventh,  Eighth,  Ninth,  Kanarra, 
and  New  Harmony  Wards,  formerly  of 
Cedar  Stake. 

Craig  Stake:  Craig,  Glenwood  Springs 
Wards;  Meeker  and  Rifle  Branches, 
formerly  of  Grand  Junction  Stake; 
Rangeley  Ward,  formerly  of  Uintah 
Stake;  Steamboat  Springs  Branch, 
formerly  of  the  Western  States  Mission. 

Denver  Stake:  Castle  Rock  Branch, 
formerly  of  the  Western  States  Mission. 

Edmonton  Stake:  Edmonton  First, 
Second,  Third,  Fourth,  and  University 
Wards,  formerly  of  the  Western 
Canadian  Mission;  Red  Deer  Branch, 
formerly  of  Calgary  Stake. 

Grand  Junction  Stake:  Naturita 
Ward,  Gunnison  and  Paradox  Branches, 
formerly  of  the  Western  States  Mission. 

Granger  North  Stake:  Granger  Fifth, 
Sixth,  Seventh,  Ninth,  Tenth,  Redwood, 
and  Redwood  Second  Wards,  formerly 
of  Granger  Stake. 

Gridley  Stake:  Orland  and  Willows 


First  Day 

Branches,  formerly  of  the  Northern 
California  Mission. 

Hamilton  Stake:  Hamilton,  Huntley, 
Temple  View,  Temple  View  Second 
Wards;  formerly  of  Auckland  Stake; 
Rotorua  and  Tauranga  Wards;  Kaw- 
erau,  Mangakino,  Te  Kuiti,  and  Thames 
Branches,  formerly  of  the  New  Zea- 
land Mission. 

Hawkes  Bay  Stake:  Hastings,  Hast- 
ings Second,  Korongata,  Napier,  Nu- 
haka,  Te  Hauke,  Wairoa  Wards;  Kaiuku 
and  Waipawa  Branches,  formerly  of 
the  New  Zealand  South  Mission. 

Las  Vegas  North  Stake:  Las  Vegas 
Second,  Fourth,  Seventh,  Eighth,  Tenth, 
Eleventh  and  Thirteenth  Wards,  for- 
merly of  Las  Vegas  Stake. 

Leeds  Stake:  Dewsbury,  Halifax, 
Huddersfield,  and  Leeds  Wards,  former- 
ly of  Manchester  Stake. 

London  Stake:  Crawley,  Hyde  Park, 
Luton,  North  London,  South  London, 
and  St.  Albans  Wards;  Stevenage  and 
Welwyn  Garden  City  Branches,  for- 
merly of  the  British  Mission. 

Melbourne  Stake:  Fairfield,  Moor- 
abbin,  Blackburn  Wards;  Ballarat, 
Bendigo,  Croyden,  Dandenong,  Frank- 
ston,  and  Geelong  Branches,  formerly  of 
the  Southern  Australian  Mission. 

Miami  Stake:  Ft.  Lauderdale,  Miami, 
Miami  Second  and  Third,  West  Palm 
Beach  Wards;  Ft.  Pierce,  Hollywood, 
Homestead  and  Key  West  Branches, 
formerly  of  the  Southern  States  Mission. 

Minnesota  Stake:  Minneapolis,  Min- 
neapolis Second,  Third,  Fourth,  St. 
Paul,  St.  Paul  Second  Wards;  Anoka, 
Austin,  Eau  Claire,  Princeton,  and 
Rochester  Branches,  formerly  of  the 
North  Central  States  Mission. 

North  Carbon  Stake:  Hiawatha, 
Price  Third  and  Sixth  Wards,  formerly 
of  Carbon  Stake. 

Oklahoma  Stake:  Lawton,  Midwest 
City,  Oklahoma  City,  South  Oklahoma 
City,  and  Stillwater  Wards;  Ada, 
Anadarko,  Ardmore,  Clinton,  Cushing, 
Duncan,  Enid,  Norman,  and  Shawnee 
Branches,  formerly  of  the  Central  States 
Mission. 

Palomar  Stake:  Escondido,  Fallbrook, 
Oceanside,  Poway,  San  Dieguito,  and 
Vista  Wards;  Ramona  Branch,  formerly 
of  the  California  Mission. 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  ORGANIZATIONS 


25 


Philadelphia  Stake:  Audubon,  Phila- 
delphia, Valley  Forge,  Wilmington,  and 
Wyncote  Wards;  Allentown,  Dover, 
Media,  Reading,  and  Salisbury  Branches, 
formerly  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission. 

Pikes  Peak  Stake:  Raton-Trinidad 
Branch,  formerly  of  the  Western  States 
Mission. 

Redding  Stake:  Anderson,  Central 
Valley,  Red  Bluff,  Redding  Wards; 
Burney,  Corning,  Mt.  Shasta,  and  Trin- 
ity Branches,  formerly  of  the  Northern 
California  Mission. 

Roy  Stake:  Lake  View,  Roy  Second, 
Third,  Fourth,  Fifth,  Sixth,  Seventh, 
Eighth,  and  Ninth  Wards,  formerly  of 
Lake  View  Stake. 

St.  George  East  Stake:  St.  George 
Fourth,  Fifth,  Sixth,  Washington,  Leeds, 
Mt.  Trumbull,  and  Dixie  College 
Wards,  formerly  of  St.  George  Stake. 

Salem  Stake:  Corvallis,  Salem,  Salem 
Second  Wards;  Albany,  Lebanon  and 
Sweet  Home  Branches  formerly  of  the 
Willamette  Stake;  McMinnville  Ward, 
formerly  of  Portland  Stake;  Molalla, 
Stayton,  and  Woodburn  Branches,  for- 
merly of  the  Northwestern  States  Mis- 
sion. 

San  Diego  East  Stake:  Tijuana  Branch 
transferred  to  the  West  Mexican 
Mission. 

Vancouver  Stake:  Chilliwick,  Fleet- 
wood, Langley,  New  Westminster, 
North  Shore,  Richmond,  Vancouver 
First  and  Second,  and  White  Rock 
Wards,  formerly  of  the  Western  Cana- 
dian Mission. 

Winter  Quarters  Stake:  Bellevue, 
Council  Bluffs,  Lincoln,  Omaha  First 
and  Second  Wards;  Fremont,  Grand 
Island,  Hastings,  Kearney,  Shenandoah, 
and  Sioux  City  Branches,  formerly  of 
the  Central  States  Mission. 

WARD  AND  BRANCH  NAMES 
CHANGED 

Cedar  West  Stake:  CSU  Ward,  for- 
merly Cedar  Ninth  Ward. 

San  Luis  Obispo  Stake:  Arroyo  Grande 
Ward,  formerly  Las  Flores  Ward. 

Winder  Stake:  Winder  Second,  Third, 
Fourth,  Fifth,  Sixth,  Seventh,  Ninth  and 
Tenth  Wards,  formerly  Mill  Creek  Sec- 
ond, Third,  Fourth,  Fifth,  Sixth,  Seventh, 
Ninth,  and  Tenth  Wards. 


INDEPENDENT  BRANCHES 
ORGANIZED 

Albuquerque  Stake:  Albuquerque- 
Lamanite  Branch,  formerly  of  the 
Southwest  Indian  Mission;  Spanish 
American  Branch,  formerly  of  the 
Spanish  American  Mission;  Gallina 
Branch  formed  by  division  of  Albu- 
querque Fourth  Ward. 

Atlanta  Stake:  Rome  Branch  formed 
by  division  of  Buchanan  Branch;  South 
Columbus  Branch  formed  by  division 
of  Columbus  Ward. 

Bakersfield  Stake:  Kern  River  Valley 
Branch,  formed  by  division  of  Bakers- 
field  First  Ward. 

Brisbane  Stake:  Bundaberg,  Cherm- 
side,  Nambour  and  Southport  Branches, 
formerly  of  the  Australian  Mission. 

Craig  Stake:  Steamboat  Springs 
Branch,  formerly  of  the  Western  States 
Mission. 

Dallas  Stake:  Denton  Branch  formed 
by  division  of  Fort  Worth  Ward. 

Denver  Stake:  Castle  Rock  Branch, 
formerly  of  the  Western  States  Mission. 

East  Provo  Stake:  Utah  State  Hospital 
Branch. 

El  Paso  Stake:  Truth  or  Consequences 
Branch,  formed  by  division  of  Hatch 
Branch. 

Grand  Junction  Stake:  Gunnison  and 
Paradox  Branches,  formerly  of  the 
Western  States  Mission. 

Gridley  Stake:  Orland  and  Willows 
Branches,  formerly  of  the  Northern 
California  Mission. 

Hamilton  Stake:  Kawerau,  Manga- 
kino,  Taupo,  TeKuiti,  TePuke,  and 
Thames  Branches,  formerly  of  the  New 
Zealand  Mission;  Tokoroa  Branch, 
formed  by  division  of  Mangakino 
Branch. 

Hawkes  Bay  Stake:  Kaiuku  and 
Waipawa  Branches,  formerly  of  the 
New  Zealand  South  Mission. 

Holland  Stake:  Delft  Branch,  formerly 
of  the  Netherlands  Mission. 

Leicester  Stake:  Loughborough  and 
Wolverhampton  Branches,  formerly  of 
the  British  Mission. 

London  Stake:  Stevenage  and  Welwyn 
Garden  City  Branches,  formerly  of  the 
British  Mission. 

Malad  Stake:  Washakie  Branch,  for- 
merly Washakie  Ward. 


26 

Thursday,  April  6 

Manchester  Stake:  Wirral  Branch, 
formed  by  division  of  Liverpool  Ward; 
Blackburn,  Rawtenstall,  and  Stockport 
Branches,  formerly  of  the  British 
Mission. 

Melbourne  Stake:  Ballarat,  Bendigo, 
Croyden,  Dandenong,  Frankston  and 
Geelong  Branches,  formerly  of  the 
Southern  Australian  Mission. 

Miami  Stake:  Ft.  Pierce,  Hollywood, 
Homestead  and  Key  West  Branches, 
formerly  of  the  Southern  States  Mission. 

Minnesota  Stake:  Anoka,  Austin, 
Eau  Claire,  Princeton,  and  Rochester 
Branches,  formerly  of  the  North 
Central  States  Mission. 

Moapa  Stake:  Muddy  River  Indian 
Branch,  formed  by  division  of  Logan- 
dale  Ward. 

North  Carbon  Stake:  Scofield  Branch, 
formed  by  division  of  Castle  Gate  Ward. 

Oahu  Stake:  Waialua  Branch,  formed 
by  division  of  Laie  Ward. 

Oklahoma  Stake:  Ada,  Anadarko, 
Ardmore,  Clinton,  Cushing,  Duncan, 
Enid,  Norman,  and  Shawnee  Branches, 
formerly  of  the  Central  States  Mission; 
Altus  Branch,  formed  by  division  of 
Lawton  Ward. 

Palomar  Stake:  Ramona  Branch, 
formerly  of  the  California  Mission. 

Philadelphia  Stake:  Allentown,  Dover, 
Media,  Reading,  and  Salisbury  Branches, 
formerly  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission. 

Pikes  Peak  Stake:  Raton-Trinidad 
Branch,  formerly  branches  in  the  Span- 
ish American  and  Western  States 
Mission. 

Redding  Stake:  Burney,  Corning,  Mt. 
Shasta,  and  Trinity  Branches,  formerly 
of  the  Northern  California  Mission. 

Salem  Stake:  Molalla,  Stayton,  and 
Woodburn  Branches,  formerly  of  the 
Northwestern  States  Mission. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

Southern  Arizona  Stake:  San  Simon 
Branch,  formed  by  division  of  Willcox 
Ward. 

Sydney  Stake:  Penrith  Branch,  formed 
by  division  of  Blacktown  Branch. 

Taber  Stake:  Vauxhall  Branch,  formed 
by  division  of  Taber  Second  Ward; 
Rainier  Branch,  formed  by  division  of 
Rosemary  Ward. 

Tucson  Stake:  Spanish  American 
Branch. 

Winter  Quarters  Stake:  Fremont, 
Grand  Island,  Hastings,  Kearney,  Shen- 
andoah, and  Sioux  City  Branches, 
formerly  of  the  Central  States  Mission. 

WARDS  AND  INDEPENDENT 
BRANCHES  DISCONTINUED 

New  Orleans  Stake:  Liberty  Ward, 
is  now  a  branch  in  the  Gulf  States 
Mission. 

San  Diego  East  Stake:  Tijuana 
Branch  is  now  a  branch  in  the  West 
Mexican  Mission. 

San  Luis  Stake:  Del  Norte  and  Monte 
Vista  Branches  were  consolidated  to 
form  Rio  Grande  Ward. 

Snowflake  Stake:  Pinedale  Ward, 
membership  transferred  to  Clay  Springs 
Ward. 

Taylor  Stake:  Tyrells  Lake  Branch, 
membership  transferred  to  Warner 
Ward. 

THOSE  WHO  HAVE  PASSED  AWAY 

J.  Milton  Belisle,  president  of  Shreve- 
port  Stake. 

Judge  William  H.  Reeder,  Jr.,  former- 
ly president  of  the  Mt.  Ogden  Stake, 
and  subsequently  president  of  the  New 
England  Mission. 

Clarence  Neeley,  president  of  Ben- 
son Stake. 


STATISTICAL  REPORT  —  1960 

For  the  Information  of  the  Members  of  the  Church: 

The  First  Presidency  issued  the  following  Statistical  Report  concerning  the  member- 
ship of  the  Church  at  the  end  of  the  year  1960. 

STATISTICAL  INFORMATION 

Number  of  Stakes  of  Zion  at  close  of  1960    319 

Number  of  Wards    2,504 

Number  of  Independent  Branches  in  Stakes    378 

Total  Wards  and  Independent  Branches  in  Stakes  at  close  of  year    2,882 

Number  of  Full-Time  Missions  at  end  of  year    58 


STATISTICAL  REPORT 


27 


Church  Membership,  December  31,  I960: 

In  the  Stakes    1,408,772 

In  the  Missions'  '.'.'.'.'.'..'.   284,408 

Total  Membership    1,693,181) 

Church  Growth  during  I960: 

Children  blessed  in  Stakes  and  Missions    5o'ioo 

Children  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions    42,189 

Converts  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions   48,586 

Social  Statistics: 

(based  on  1960  data  from  the  Stakes) 

Birth  rate  per  thousand    34.62 

Marriage  rate  per  thousand    8.18 

Death  rate  per  thousand    5.33 

Priesthood: 

Members  holding  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  December  31,  1960: 

Deacons    79,655 

Teachers    58,988 

Priests    80,628 

Total  holding  Aaronic  Priesthood    219,271 

Members  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  December  31,  1960: 

Elders    157,661 

Seventies    21,604 

High  Priests    49,251 

Total  holding  Melchizedek  Priesthood    228,516 

Grand  Total,  members  holding  Aaronic  or  Melchizedek  Priesthood    447,787 

Auxiliary  Organizations: 

Relief  Society  (membership)    214,129 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  (average  attendance)    608,000 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association  (enrollment)    204,262 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association  (enrollment)    203,007 

Primary  (children  enrolled)    331,570 

Welfare  Plan: 

Number  of  Persons  assisted    98,411 

Number  placed  in  remunerative  employment  during  the  year    8,215 

Man-days  of  work  donated  to  the  Welfare  Plan  during  year   241,418 

Unit-days  of  equipment  use  donated    10,123 

Genealogical  Society: 

Names  cleared  in  1960  for  Temple  ordinances    985,817 

Genealogical  records  microfilmed  in  14  countries  during  the  year  were  equi- 
valent to  175,041  printed  volumes  of  approximately  300  pages  per  volume. 

Temples: 

Number  of  ordinances  performed  during  1960  in  the  12  operating  Temples: 

For  the  living   39,057 

For  the  dead   3,804,681 

Total  number  of  ordinances    3,843,738 

Church  School  System: 

Total  1960  cumulative  enrollments  in  the  Church  School  System 
(including  schools  in  the  Pacific) : 

College  Students    23,196 

Elementary  and  High  School  Students    62,182 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Day 

Missionaries: 

Number  of  Missionaries  who  at  the  close  of  1960  were  laboring  under  calls 

from  the  First  Presidency  in  the  full-time  missions    7,683 

Number  of  local  missionaries  (full-time  and  part-time)  who  at  the  close 

of  1960  were  laboring  in  these  missions   1,414 

Number  of  Stake  missionares  at  the  close  of  the  year      6,426 

Total  number  of  missionaries  at  end  of  year    15,523 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  in  the  Missionary  Home 

during  1960    4,652 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Henry  D.  Moyle  will  now  Church  and  General  Officers,  for  your 
present  the  General  Authorities  of  the    sustaining  vote. 


President  Henry  D.  Moyle  then  pre-     General  Officers  of  the  Church, 
sented   the   General   Authorities  and 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  First  Presidency 

David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Henry  D.  Moyle,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Marion  G.  Romney 

Harold  B.  Lee  LeGrand  Richards 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Richard  L.  Evans 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  George  Q.  Morris 

Mark  E.  Petersen  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Delbert  L.  Stapley  Howard  W.  Hunter 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 

Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Patriarch 
to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Alma  Sonne  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr. 

EIRay  L.  Christiansen  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

John  Longden  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner 

Sterling  W.  Sill  Franklin  D.  Richards 

Gordon  B.  Hinckley  Theodore  M.  Burton 

Henry  D.  Taylor 

Trustee-in-Trust 
David  O.  McKay 

Trustee-in-Trust  for  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Marion  D.  Hanks 

Seymour  Dilworth  Young  Albert  Theodore  Tuttle 

Milton  R.  Hunter 

Presiding  Bishopric 

Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Presiding  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  First  Counselor 
Carl  W.  Buehner,  Second  Counselor 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
with  A.  William  Lund  and  Preston  Nibley  as  Assistants. 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 
Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Louise  Wallace  Madsen,  Second  Counselor 

with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 

David  Lawrence  McKay,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 

Lynn  S.  Richards,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 

with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Joseph  T.  Bentley,  General  Superintendent 

George  Carlos  Smith,  Jr.,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 

Marvin  J.  Ashton,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 

with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Bertha  S.  Reeder,  President 
Emily  H.  Bennett,  First  Counselor 
LaRue  C.  Longden,  Second  Counselor 

with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Primary  Association 

LaVern  W.  Parmley,  President 
Arta  M.  Hale,  First  Counselor 
Leone  W.  Doxey,  Second  Counselor 

with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Day 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Church  Board  of  Education 

David  O.  McKay  Delbert  L.  Stapley 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Marion  G.  Romney 

Henry  D.  Moyle  LeGrand  Richards 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Richard  L.  Evans 

Harold  B.  Lee  George  Q.  Morris 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Howard  W.  Hunter 
Mark  E.  Petersen 

Administrator,  Board  of  Education 
Ernest  L.  Wilkinson 

Church  Finance  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams 
Harold  H.  Bennett 
Wilford  G.  Edling 
Glenn  E.  Nielson 
Weston  E.  Hamilton 

Senior  Church  Auditors 

Harold  L.  Davis 
Charles  Schmidt 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 
Advisers 

Harold  B.  Lee  John  Longden 

Delbert  L.  Stapley  Henry  D.  Taylor 

Marion  G.  Romney  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

LeGrand  Richards  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

Howard  W.  Hunter  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 

Alma  Sonne  Carl  W.  Buehner 
El  Ray  L.  Christiansen 

and  the  General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 

General  Church  Welfare  Committee 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Chairman 

Henry  D.  Taylor,  Managing  Director 
Paul  C.  Child  LeRoy  A.  Wirthlin 

Mark  B.  Garff  Walter  Stover 

J.  Leonard  Love  A.  Lewis  Elggren 

William  T.  Lawrence  Donald  Ellsworth 

Lorenzo  H.  Hatch  Casper  H.  Parker 

Walter  Dansie 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Conductor 
Jay  E.  Welch,  Assistant  Conductor 
W.  Jack  Thomas,  Tour  Manager 


REPORT  OF  FINANCE  COMMITTEE 


31 


Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 


President  Henry  D.  Moyle: 

President  McKay,  the  voting  seems 
to  have  been  unanimous  in  the  affirm- 
ative. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Orval  W.  Adams  will  now  read 
the  report  of  the  Church  Finance 
Committee. 


March  31,  1961 

The  First  Presidency 
47  East  South  Temple 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Dear  Brethren: 

We  have  made  a  study  of  the  pro- 
gram under  which  all  the  finances  of 
the  Church  are  administered,  with  par- 
ticular attention  to  the  accounting  for 
funds  received  by  the  Corporation  of 
the  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  through 
which  accounts  the  general  funds  of 
the  Church  pass,  and  the  manner  in 
which  expenditures  are  authorized  and 
the  accounts  are  maintained  and 
audited  of  that  Corporation.  We  have 
determined  that  such  funds  are  con- 
trolled by  budgetary  procedures;  that 
the  budget  is  authorized  by  the  Council 
on  the  Disposition  of  Tithes  comprised 
of  the  First  Presidency,  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve,  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric, 
and  all  disbursements  are  approved  and 
paid  in  accordance  with  the  rules  es- 
tablished by  the  Council  on  the  Dis- 
position of  Tithes. 

The  Church  utilizes  modern  equip- 
ment and  accounting  procedures  in  its 
record  keeping,  and  the  work  is  done 
by  a  capable  staff.  The  general  finan- 
cial records  of  the  Church  are  audited 
by  an  auditing  department  which  is 
completely  independent  of  all  other  de- 
partments. We  are  informed  that 
either  the  Church  Auditing  Depart- 


ment or  professional  auditing  firms  are 
employed  to  audit  all  organizations 
owned  or  controlled  by  the  Church, 
copies  of  which  audits  are  regularly  filed 
with  the  auditing  department  of  the 
Church. 

We  have  reviewed  the  financial  re- 
port prepared  by  the  Financial  Depart- 
ment and  have  discussed  the  contents 
of  that  report  with  the  personnel  of 
that  department,  and  with  the  person- 
nel of  the  Auditing  Department.  Based 
upon  the  reports  so  submited  to  us,  and 
explanations  made  by  the  personnel, 
we  are  of  the  opinion  that  the  appro- 
priations and  the  expenditures  of  funds 
during  the  year  1960  were  all  made  in 
accordance  with  the  established  pro- 
cedure outlined  herein.  The  expendi- 
tures of  the  Church  are  within  its 
income,  and  the  Church  is  free  from 
debt. 

We  commend  the  General  Authori- 
ties and  their  associates  for  the  manner 
in  which  the  finances  of  the  Church 
are  administered,  and  the  Financial  and 
Auditing  Departments  for  the  expert 
and  careful  manner  in  which  all  finan- 
cial records  are  maintained  and 
audited. 

Respectfully  submitted, 

CHURCH  FINANCE 
COMMITTEE 

Orval  W.  Adams 
Harold  H.  Bennett 
Glenn  E.  Nielson 
Wilford  G.  Edling 
Weston  E.  Hamilton 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  a  report 
from  the  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  Elder 
Joseph  Anderson,  giving  vital  statistics, 
and  Elder  Orval  W.  Adams,  who  gave 
a  report  of  the  Church  Finance  Com- 
mittee, and  President  Henry  D.  Moyle 
of  the  First  Presidency,  who  presented 
the  General  Authorities,  General  Of- 


32 

Thursday,  April  6 

ficers,  and  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of 
the  Church  for  your  sustaining  vote. 
Thank  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  for 
this  manifestation  of  your  cooperation 
and  loyalty.  May  the  Lord  bless  all 
of  us  as  we  go  forward  in  unity,  devot- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

ing  ourselves  to  the  upbuilding  and 
success  of  the  Church. 

Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  first  speaker. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Bishop  Carl 
W.  Buehner. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  soul  is  subdued  as  I  face  this  vast 
conference  audience,  and  I  seek,  there- 
fore, for  an  interest  in  your  faith  and 
prayers  during  these  next  few  minutes. 

Several  weeks  ago  I  had  a  telephone 
call  from  an  anxious  father  about  his 
nineteen-year-old  son,  who,  having  read 
certain  scriptures,  was  resisting  the  idea 
of  going  on  a  mission  lest  he  would  do 
an  injustice  to  those  who  would  reject 
his  message,  thus  placing  them  under 
condemnation  as  he  had  construed  cer- 
tain scriptures,  which  he  had  read,  to 
mean. 

As  I  sat  with  this  young  man,  at  the 
request  of  the  father,  I  found  that  he 
had  two  particular  scriptures  in  mind. 
The  first  was  the  injunction  of  the 
Master  to  his  disciples  when  he  said, 
"Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach 
the  gospel  to  every  creature. 

"He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized 
shall  be  saved;  but  he  that  believeth 
not  shall  be  damned."  (Mark  16:15-16.) 

And  then  in  our  day  one  somewhat 
similar:  "Behold,  I  sent  you  out  to 
testify  and  warn  the  people,  and  it 
becometh  every  man  who  hath  been 
warned  to  warn  his  neighbor. 

"Therefore,  they  are  left  without 
excuse,  and  their  sins  are  upon  their 
own  heads."  (D&C  88:81-82.) 

So  this  young  man  asked,  "Why  send 
the  missionaries  out  to  preach  the  gospel, 
if  to  do  so  would  put  people  under 
condemnation  who  would  not  accept? 
Would  it  not  be  better  for  people  to  be 
kept  in  ignorance  than  to  be  taught 
and  then  not  to  accept?" 

Of  course,  these  questions  opened  up 
a  subject  which  would  require  far  more 
time  than  is  at  my  disposal  this  after- 
noon, but  with  the  thought  that  these 
same  questions  may  be  in  the  minds  of 
others,  particularly  our  young  men  who 
do  not  understand,  I  shall  this  after- 


noon make  a  few  observations  relative 
to  the  point  raised  by  this  young  man. 
Some  of  these  thoughts  were  expressed 
in  my  interview  with  him. 

The  Master  commanded  his  disciples: 
"Go  ye  therefore,  and  teach  all  nations, 
baptizing  them  in  the  name  of  the 
Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy 
Ghost":  (Matthew  28:19.) 

"Whose  soever  sins  ye  remit,  they  are 
remitted  unto  them;  and  whose  soever 
sins  ye  retain,  they  are  retained." 
(John  20:23.) 

And  so  the  scriptures  record,  the  dis- 
ciples preached,  "Repent,  and  be  bap- 
tized ...  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and 
ye  shall  receive  the  Holy  Ghost."  (Acts 
2:38.) 

The  Master's  admonition  to  Nico- 
demus,  who  came  confessing  Jesus  as 
a  teacher  come  of  God,  and  undoubtedly 
seeking  to  know,  like  so  many  others 
who  are  true  seekers  after  truth,  just 
what  he  must  do  to  be  saved.  He  was 
told  that  he  must  be  born  again  if  he 
would  see  the  kingdom  of  God.  This 
statement,  the  Master  clarified,  when  he 
explained,  "Except  a  man  be  bom  of 
water  and  of  the  Spirit,  he  cannot  enter 
into  the  kingdom  of  God."  (John  3:5.) 

This  new  birth,  then,  was  to  be 
accomplished  through  the  medium  of 
baptism  by  immersion  and  by  the  laying 
on  of  hands  for  the  conferring  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  as  the  disciples,  thereafter 
as  they  went  out  among  the  people, 
administered  these  sacred  ordinances. 

Then  Nicodemus  asked:  "How  can 
these  things  be?"  And  in  answer,  the 
Master  declared  the  profound  truth  re- 
garding the  atonement,  which  explains 
to  all  who  would  understand  the  reason 
why  the  gospel  must  be  preached  by 
authorized  servants  to  all  people.  Said 
he: 

"For  God  so  loved  the  world,  that  he 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


33 


gave  his  only  begotten  Son,  that  who- 
soever believeth  in  him  should  not 
perish,  but  have  everlasting  life." 
(Ibid.,  3:16.) 

And  then  he  emphasized,  "For  God 
sent  not  his  Son  into  the  world  to  con- 
demn the  world;  but  that  the  world 
through  him  might  be  saved."  (Ibid., 
3:17.) 

I  then  paraphrased  to  my  young  mis- 
sionary friend:  "So  our  missionaries  go 
not  out  into  the  world  to  condemn  the 
world,  but  that  the  world,  through  their 
teachings,  might  be  saved." 

Being  saved  from  everlasting  condem- 
nation through  the  atonement  of  the 
only  Begotten  Son  becomes  a  new  birth, 
or  a  redemption  from  spiritual  death, 
the  meaning  of  which  is  explained  by 
revelation  as  the  Lord  has  revealed  it. 

From  the  fall  of  Adam  and  Eve  in  the 
Garden  of  Eden,  they  and  their  posterity 
suffered  a  spiritual  death,  or  a  separation 
from  direct  communication  with  Deity. 
This  is  what  the  revelations  have  taught 
us: 

"And  it  must  needs  be  that  the  devil 
should  tempt  the  children  of  men,  or 
they  could  not  be  agents  unto  them- 
selves; for  if  they  never  should  have 
bitter  they  could  not  know  the  sweet — 

"Wherefore,  it  came  to  pass  that  the 
devil  tempted  Adam,  and  he  partook  of 
the  forbidden  fruit  and  transgressed  the 
commandment,  wherein  he  became  sub- 
ject to  the  will  of  the  devil,  because  he 
yielded  unto  temptation. 

"Wherefore,  I,  the  Lord  God,  caused 
that  he  should  be  cast  out  from  the 
Garden  of  Eden,  from  my  presence, 
because  of  his  transgression,  wherein  he 
became  spiritually  dead,  which  is  the 
first  death,  even  that  same  death  which 
is  the  last  death,  which  is  spiritual, 
which  shall  be  pronounced  upon  the 
wicked  when  I  shall  say:  "Depart,  ye 
cursed."  (D&G  29:39-41.) 

Man  through  the  baptism  of  the  water 
and  of  the  Spirit  is  redeemed  from  this 
spiritual  death  and  by  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  brought  back  into  direct 
communion  with  God,  and  these  are 
"born  again."  To  those  who  keep  the 
commandments  ".  .  .  he  may  pour  out 
his  Spirit  more  abundantly  upon  you." 
(Mosiah  18:10.) 

Those  who  suffered  this  first  "spiritual 


death"  were  cast  out  from  the  presence 
of  God  from  the  Garden  of  Eden,  as  the 
Lord  had  said  to  the  spirits  in  the  pre- 
mortal world,  that  they  might  "prove 
themselves  to  see  if  they  would  do  all 
things  whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God 
should  command  them,"  and  there  was 
granted  unto  all  men,  therefore  a  "pro- 
bationary" period  as  the  Prophet  Amulek 
explained:  "For  behold,  this  life  is  the 
time  for  men  to  prepare  to  meet  God," 
(Alma  34:32)  or  in  other  words,  a  time 
for  all  men  to  work  out  their  salvation 
and  to  prepare  to  come  back  into  the 
presence  of  God. 

It  was  this  plan  of  salvation  to  which 
the  Resurrected  Lord  made  reference 
when  he  said  to  the  Nephites:  "And 
no  unclean  thing  can  enter  into  his 
kingdom;  therefore  nothing  entereth  into 
his  rest  save  it  be  those  who  have 
washed  their  garments  in  my  blood, 
because  of  their  faith,  and  the  repent- 
ance of  all  their  sins,  and  their  faith- 
fulness unto  the  end."  (3  Nephi  27:19.) 

Baptism  of  water  and  of  the  Spirit  by 
those  having  authority  are  the  neces- 
sary ordinances  for  this  cleansing,  for  as 
the  Lord  told  Adam,  ".  .  .  by  the  water 
ye  keep  the  commandment,  by  the  Spirit 
are  ye  justified,  and  by  the  blood  are 
ye  sanctified."  (Moses  6:60.) 

It  was  undoubtedly  this  same  prin- 
ciple that  the  apostle  Paul  had  in  mind 
when  he  taught  the  Galatians:  "For  as 
many  of  you  as  have  been  baptized  into 
Christ  have  put  on  Christ."  (Gal.  3:27.) 

Involved  in  this  question  of  the  uni- 
versal proclamation  of  the  gospel  is  an- 
other principle  implied  in  the  Master's 
instruction  to  Peter.  The  Master,  hav- 
ing declared  the  fundamental  principle 
upon  which  his  kingdom  would  be  built, 
conferred  upon  Peter  the  "keys  of  the 
kingdom,"  which  have  been  conferred 
upon  all  prophet-leaders  in  every  dis- 
pensation and  held  today  by  our  own 
President  David  O.  McKay  in  our  time. 
He  said  the  purpose  of  so  establishing 
his  kingdom  with  that  authority  was 
that  the  "gates  of  hell"  should  not 
prevail  against  it. 

The  broad  implication  of  that  state- 
ment, having  in  mind  the  periods  of 
apostasy  which  have  followed  each  dis- 
pensation, is  that  even  during  such 
periods  of  apostasy  when  there  was  no 


34 

Thursday,  April  6 

one  on  earth  to  administer  these  saving 
ordinances,  the  devil  would  not  prevail 
against  the  plan  of  salvation  of  all  of 
our  Father's  children. 

This  further  provision  in  his  plan  con- 
templated the  preaching  of  the  gospel 
then,  not  only  to  his  children  who  were 
upon  the  earth,  but  also  to  the  spirits 
of  mortals  who  had  lived  upon  the 
earth.  The  Master  prophesied  of  the 
time  when  that  would  take  place  when 
he  said:  "Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you, 
The  hour  is  coming,  and  now  is,  when 
the  dead  shall  hear  the  voice  of  the  Son 
of  God:  and  they  that  hear  shall  live." 
(John  5:25.) 

Not  long  after  this  prophecy  was  ut- 
tered, it  was  fulfilled  when  the  Cruci- 
fied Lord,  as  Peter  tells  us,  ".  .  .  quick- 
ened by  the  Spirit,  went  and  preached 
unto  the  spirits  in  prison."  (1  Peter 
3:18-21.)  And  thus,  although  temporar- 
ily, the  powers  of  the  devil  drove  the 
Church  into  the  wilderness  of  apostasy 
after  the  apostolic  period,  the  gates  of 
hell  did  not  prevail  against  the  plan  of 
salvation,  either  for  the  dead,  who  did 
not  have  ample  opportunity  to  receive 
the  gospel  on  earth,  as  well  as  for 
those  then  living  when  authorized  serv- 
ants were  on  the  earth  to  perform  the 
essential  saving  ordinances. 

The  missionary  work  in  the  spirit 
world  was  thus  introduced  by  the  Master 
and  has  continued  from  that  time  down 
to  the  present  ".  .  .  that  they  might  be 
judged  according  to  men  in  the  flesh, 
and  yet  live  according  to  God  in  the 
Spirit,"  to  attain  which,  is  to  gain  eternal 
life.  (1  Peter  4:6.) 

So,  surely  with  the  preaching  of  the 
gospel  made  thus  vital  to  the  eternal 
blessing  of  all  who  will  hear  and  ac- 
cept, no  one  should  hesitate  when  called 
by  proper  authority  to  go  into  all  the 
world  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every 
nation,  kindred,  tongue,  and  people. 
Among  the  Nephites  there  was  an  exam- 
ple of  how  men  of  this  kind  of  devotion 
and  dedication  applied  themselves  to 
their  teaching.    Jacob  writes: 

"For  I,  Jacob,  and  my  brother  Joseph 
had  been  consecrated  priests  and 
teachers  of  this  people,  by  the  hand  of 
Nephi. 

"And  we  did  magnify  our  office  unto 
the  Lord,  taking  upon  us  the  responsi- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

bility,  answering  the  sins  of  the  people 
upon  our  own  heads  if  we  did  not  teach 
them  the  word  of  God  with  all  diligence; 
wherefore,  by  laboring  with  our  might 
their  blood  might  not  come  upon  our 
garments;  otherwise  their  blood  would 
come  upon  our  garments,  and  we  would 
not  be  found  spotless  at  the  last  day." 
(Jacob  1:18-19.) 

There  is  no  more  welcome  voice  to 
the  honest  in  heart  than  the  voice  of 
the  true  messenger  preaching  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  We  have  a  classic 
example  of  inspired  teachings  and  how 
they  come.  The  sons  of  Mosiah  were 
with  Alma  at  the  time  the  angel  first 
appeared  unto  him,  and  when  he  saw 
them  returning  from  their  missionary 
journeys,  the  record  says,  he  rejoiced 
exceedingly  "to  see  his  brethren;  and 
what  added  more  to  his  joy  they  were 
still  his  brethren  in  the  Lord;  yea,  and 
they  had  waxed  strong  in  the  knowledge 
of  the  truth;  for  they  were  men  of  a 
sound  understanding,  and  they  had 
searched  the  scriptures  diligently,  that 
they  might  know  the  word  of  God. 

"But  this  is  not  all;  they  had  given 
themselves  to  much  prayer,  and  fasting; 
therefore  they  had  the  spirit  of  prophecy, 
and  the  spirit  of  revelation,  and  when 
they  taught,  they  taught  with  power 
and  authority  of  God."  (Alma  17:2-3.) 

When  I  read  that  word  "diligently" 
which  the  Lord  has  repeated  again  and 
again,  as  when  he  said:  "And  I  give  unto 
you  as  commandment  that  you  shall 
teach  one  another  the  doctrine  of  the 
kingdom,"  and  then  added,  "Teach  ye 
diligently  and  my  grace  shall  attend 
you"  (D&C  88:77-78),  I  have  tried  to 
define  those  words  "diligently"  and 
"grace."  Diligently,  the  dictionary 
says,  is  "perseveringly  attentive,  prose- 
cuted with  careful  attention,"  which  is 
opposite  laziness,  or  carelessness,  or  in- 
difference. And  when  I  looked  for  the 
definition  of  "grace,"  I  found  it  defined 
as  a  "state  of  being  pleasing  to  God 
because  of  responsiveness." 

But  I  do  not  think  that  is  what  the 
Lord  meant  by  "grace"  when  he  said, 
"My  grace  shall  attend  you."  I  believe 
the  definition  of  "grace"  is  implied  in 
the  fourth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  where  the  Lord  promised  to 
those  who  would  engage  vigorously  in 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 


35 


missionary  work:  ".  .  .  and  lo,  he  that 
thrusteth  in  his  sickle  with  his  might, 
the  same  layeth  up  in  store  that  he 
perisheth  not,  but  bringeth  salvation  to 
his  soul."  (Ibid.,  4:4.)  The  saving 
"grace"  of  the  Lord's  atoning  power 
would  extend  to  the  giver  as  well  as  to 
those  who  would  receive  the  saving 
ordinances  of  the  gospel. 

Surely,  therefore,  no  one  with  that 
understanding  of  these  fundamental 
principles  would  think  he  were  doing 
our  Heavenly  Father's  mortal  children 
a  disservice  by  giving  them  these  price- 
less gifts. 

May  God  bless  us  all  and  all  our 
Father's  children,  that  they  may  be 
responsive  to  the  call  of  the  mission- 
aries. May  this  young  man  and  all 
others  like  him,  may  they  realize  that 
this  is  a  responsibility  which  the  Lord 
has  given  to  his  Church  in  every  dis- 
pensation, and  to  his  authorized  servants 
in  the  world  of  spirits,  to  teach  the 


gospel  to  every  creature  in  order  that 
each  be  left  without  excuse  in  the  day  of 
judgment,  and  that  all  might  be  re- 
deemed from  the  Fall  and  brought  back 
into  the  presence  of  the  Lord.  We  who 
have  the  command  to  preach  and  teach 
must,  like  the  Apostle  Paul  declared, 
"not  be  ashamed  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  for  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation  to  everyone  that  believeth. . .  ." 
(Rom.  1:16.) 

I  pray  humbly  we  may  all  understand 
and  so  teach  with  the  power  and  au- 
thority of  God,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  will  be  our  next 
speaker. 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


The  message  contained  in  the  words  of 
an  old  song  suggest  a  few  thoughts 
worthy  of  consideration: 

"Who's  on  the  Lord's  side?  Who? 

Now  is  the  time  to  show; 

We  ask  it  fearlessly; 

Who's  on  the  Lord's  side?  Who?" 

Ever  since  the  great  council  was  con- 
ducted  in  heaven  for  the  purpose  of  pro- 
viding a  plan  of  salvation,  the  right  of 
choice  has  become  most  important.  The 
Lord  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  through  the  writings  of  Moses 
in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  some  of  the 
things  which  took  place  on  this  occa- 
sion. He  told  how  Satan  went  before 
the  Father  saying: 

" — Behold,  here  am  I,  send  me,  I  will 
be  thy  son,  and  I  will  redeem  all  man- 
kind, that  one  soul  shall  not  be  lost, 
and  Surely  I  will  do  it;  wherefore  give 
me  thine  honor."  (Moses  4:1.) 

Then  the  Father's  Beloved  Son  came 
forth  with  another  plan  described  by 
the  Father  as  follows: 

"But,  behold,  my  Beloved  Son,  which 
was  my  Beloved  and  Chosen  from  the 


beginning,  said  unto  me — Father,  thy 
will  be  done,  and  the  glory  be  thine 
forever."  (Ibid.,  4:2.) 

Satan's  proposal  was  rejected.  He  re- 
belled, and  as  a  result  of  this  rebellion, 
he  and  his  followers  were  cast  out  of 
heaven.  Since  that  day,  he  has  been 
trying  to  destroy  man. 

The  primary  purpose  of  our  Father  in 
heaven  and  his  only  Begotten  Son  is  to 
exalt  mankind.  Satan's  desire  is  to  take 
away  our  free  agency  and  reduce  every- 
one to  his  level. 

We  are  here  today  because  of  the 
choices  we  have  made. 

One  verse  of  another  song  we 
frequently  sing  expresses  a  thought  along 
this  line: 

"Choose  the  right!  there  is  peace  in 

righteous  doing; 
Choose  the  right  I  there's  safety  for  the 

soul; 

Choose  the  right  in  all  labors  you're 

pursuing; 
Let  God  and  heaven  be  your  goal." 

History  is  replete  with  examples  of 
blessings  and  adversity  that  came  to 


36  GENERAL  C 

Thursday,  April  6 

nations  and  individuals  as  a  result  of 
choice.  Israel,  as  a  nation,  was  set  free 
from  oppressive  bondage  by  the  Lord. 
Time  after  time,  her  enemies  were  sub- 
dued, yet  she  persisted  in  idolatry. 

In  speaking  to  Israel,  Joshua  reviewed 
the  many  blessings  he  had  received  at 
the  hand  of  the  Lord.  He  concluded 
his  exhortation  by  challenging  Israel  as 
follows: 

".  .  .  choose  you  this  day  whom  ye 
will  serve;  ...  but  as  for  me  and  my 
house,  we  will  serve  the  Lord."  (Joshua 
24:15.) 

Israel  failed  to  give  heed  to  repeated 
warnings,  and  you  know  her  fate.  She 
chose  evil  rather  than  good. 

We  are  presently  feeling  the  pressure 
of  another  great  nation  whose  desire  it 
is  to  rob  man  of  his  free  agency  and  to 
force  all  mankind  to  accept  the  plan 
proposed  by  Lucifer  in  the  beginning. 

Look  about  you  and  observe  those 
who  have  made  the  wrong  choice.  Evil 
seems  to  be  prevalent  everywhere.  The 
influence  of  the  destroyer  has  lured  men 
to  become  thieves,  liars,  gamblers, 
adulterers,  addicts,  and  into  backbiting, 
evil-speaking,  and  the  destruction  of  the 
home  and  all  that  pertains  thereto. 

Contrast  these  things  with  those  who 
choose  the  right— happy  people,  happy 
homes,  those  filled  with  faith  and  hope 
for  the  future.  These  families  make  for 
themselves  a  heaven  on  earth. 

Is  there  anything  more  beautiful  than 
a  young  couple  on  their  way  to  the 
temple  to  be  married  for  time  and  eter- 
nity? This  means  preparation  and 
choosing  the  Lord's  way  of  marriage. 
We  will  probably  never  be  closer  to 
heaven  while  we  live  in  this  life  than 
when  we  are  in  the  temple  of  the  Lord. 

It  is  the  desire  of  the  Lord  to  lift  us 
up,  to  be  prepared  one  day  to  live  again 
with  him.  It  is  Satan's  desire  to  reduce 
us  to  his  level,  to  live  with  him  in  his 
kingdom. 

Our  whole  life  involves  the  principle 
of  choice.  The  Lord  commands  us  to 
live  close  to  him  and  to  keep  his  com- 
mandments, and  Satan  seems  to  offer 
a  counter  proposal.  Let  us  analyze  a 
few  of  the  things  which  bring  a  conflict 
between  the  forces  of  good  and  evil: 

1.  The  Lord  says,  "Thou  shaft  love 
the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  might, 


First  Day 

mind  and  strength."  (See  Mark  12:30.) 

Satan,  in  substance,  suggests,  "Why 
love  God?  Why  not  disregard  him?" 
Or  he  might  even  indicate  there  is  no 
god  at  all  but  himself. 

2-  The  Lord  says,  "Love  thy  neigh- 
bour as  thyself."  (Mark  12:31.) 

Satan  might  say,  "Hate  your  neighbor 
and  treat  him  with  contempt." 

3.  The  Lord  says,  "Keep  the  Sabbath 
day  holy."  (See  Exodus  20:8.) 

Satan  would  say,  "Use  the  Sabbath 
day  as  a  recreation  day.  What  value  is 
there  in  attending  Church  and  in  re- 
fraining from  your  labors  on  this  day?" 

4.  The  Lord  says,  "Honour  thy  father 
and  thy  mother."  (Exodus  20:12.) 

Satan  craftily  puts  into  our  minds  the 
idea  of  disobeying  our  parents;  your  life 
is  your  own  to  choose  as  you  wish.  Take 
all  your  parents  will  give  you.  They 
will  soon  be  old,  and  someone  else  can 
take  care  of  them. 

5.  The  Lord  says,  "Sustain  and  up- 
hold the  Lord's  anointed." 

Satan  would  say,  "Find  fault  with  and 
weaken  the  position  of  the  general  and 
local  authorities  of  the  Church." 

6.  The  Lord  says,  "In  the  sweat  of  thy 
face  shalt  thou  eat  bread,"  (Gen.  3:19.) 
and  he  also  said,  "Cease  to  be  idle." 
(D&C  88:124.) 

Satan  might  say,  "Get  as  much  as  you 
can  for  nothing.  It  is  undignified  to 
work  for  what  you  receive."  He  would 
encourage  indolence,  laziness,  and  even 
the  thought  that  the  government  owes 
you  a  living. 

7.  The  Lord  says,  "Thou  shalt  not 
steal."  (Exodus  20:15.) 

Satan  might  say,  "Why  not  steal  and 
be  dishonest?  Give  short  measure  and 
short  weight.  Do  not  give  an  honest 
day's  work  for  an  honest  day's  pay." 

8.  The  Lord  says,  'Thou  shalt  not 
bear  false  witness."  (Exodus  20:16.) 

Satan  would  say,  "Dig  a  pit  for  your 
neighbors;  lie  about  them;  cause  them 
personal  injury;  subject  them  to  em- 
barrassment." 

9.  The  Lord  says,  "Pay  one  tenth  of 
your  interest  annually  as  tithing.  For 
this,  I  shall  give  you  a  great  reward." 
(D&C  119:4.) 

Lucifer  would  say,  "Why  pay  your 
tithing?  You  need  the  money  more 
than  the  Church  needs  it.   The  great- 


BISHOP  CARL 

est  blessing  is  to  spend  your  own 
money." 

10.  The  Lord  says,  "Observe  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  my  law  of  health."  (D&C 
89.) 

Lucifer  contends  that  no  harm  will 
come  from  indulging  in  tobacco,  liquor, 
tea,  coffee,  and  other  harmful  abuses  to 
the  body  such  as  overeating  and  over- 
indulgences.  He  would  say,  "Go  along 
with  the  crowd  and  be  a  good  sport.  To 
acquire  these  contrary  habits  will  make 
one  popular." 

11.  The  Lord  says,  "Parents,  teach 
your  children  to  pray  and  walk  uprightly 
before  the  Lord."  (See  D&C  68:28.) 

Satan  would  say,  "Why  teach  your 
children  to  pray?  There  is  no  value  in 
prayer.  It  is  not  necessary  to  discipline 
them." 

12.  The  Lord  says,  "Seek  the  genealogy 
of  your  ancestors  and  complete  the 
temple  work  for  them." 

Satan  would  say,  "Postpone  doing  this 
work  or,  better  still,  don't  do  it  at  all." 

In  many  other  things  the  Lord  has 
counseled  us  to  prepare  ourselves  to  live 
with  him.  In  each  instance,  Satan's 
influence  would  attempt  to  destroy  this 
faith  and  the  desire  of  doing  the  Lord's 
work.  He  would  enslave  us  and  per- 
suade us  to  join  his  forces. 

We  cannot  cover  up  evil.  Our  sins 
are  known  to  God.  Neither  can  we 
serve  two  masters.  The  Lord  has  said, 
"He  that  is  not  with  me  is  against 
me;  .  .  ."  (Matt.  12:30.)  It  is  impera- 
tive that  we  choose  the  right. 

John  Oxenham  wrote  these  few  lines, 
entitled  "A  High  Way  and  A  Low": 

"To  every  man  there  openeth 

A  way,  and  ways,  and  a  way, 

And  the  high  soul  climbs  the  high  way, 

And  the  low  soul  gropes  the  low; 

And  in  between  on  the  misty  flats, 

The  rest  drift  to  and  fro; 

But  to  every  man  there  openeth 

A  high  way  and  a  low, 

And  every  man  decideth 

The  way  his  soul  shall  go." 


W.BUEHNER  37 

Happiness  here  is  dependent  upon 
moral  decisions  and  obedience  to  the 
principles  of  truth.  Our  most  important 
decision  and  obligation  is  to  live  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

This  period  is  characterized  by  trial, 
suffering,  sacrifice,  and  disappointment, 
as  well  as  joy.  All  these  experiences 
are  dedicated  to  our  progress  and  growth. 
During  this  life,  we  are  our  own  judges. 
We  judge  ourselves  continuously.  We 
sentence  ourselves  to  happiness  through 
service  or  misery  through  sin. 

In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  repeat 
again: 

"Who's  on  the  Lord's  side?  Who? 
Now  is  the  time  to  show; 
We  ask  it  fearlessly; 
Who's  on  the  Lord's  side?  Who?" 

May  our  decisions  lift  us  to  celestial 
glory  and  eternal  life,  I  humbly  pray, 
and  leave  my  testimony,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  who  has  just  spoken  is  Bishop 
Carl  W.  Buehner  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric.  The  congregation  and  chorus 
will  now  join  in  singing,  "High  On 
The  Mountain  Top,"  conducted  by 
Sister  Lue  Groesbeck.  Brother  Bruce  R. 
McConkie  will  speak  to  us  after  the 
singing. 


The  Primary  Teachers  Chorus  and 
the  congregation  joined  in  singing  the 
hymn,  "High  On  The  Mountain  Top," 
conducted  by  Sister  Lue  Groesbeck. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Bruce 
R.  McConkie  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Antoine  R.  Ivins. 


38 

Thursday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


First  Day 


We  are  laying  the  foundation  for,  and 
have  already  actually  commenced,  the 
greatest  missionary  undertaking  ever 
destined  to  occur  in  any  age  of  the 
earth's  history.  We  are  going  forth 
by  command  of  Deity  to  carry  the 
knowledge  of  God  and  of  his  saving 
truths  to  all  nations,  to  preach  the  gos- 
pel to  every  creature,  and  to  give  in 
due  course,  in  this  life  or  in  the  next, 
every  living  soul  the  opportunity  to 
hear  and  obey  these  saving  principles. 

The  ultimate  end  of  this  missionary 
work  will  be  to  see  the  knowledge  of 
God  and  his  saving  truths  cover  the 
earth  ".  .  .  as  the  waters  cover  the  sea." 
(Isa.  11:9.)  The  ultimate  end  of  this 
missionary  work  will  be  reached  when 
the  day  arrives  in  which  it  will  no 
longer  be  necessary  for  every  man  to 
say  to  his  brother  or  neighbor,  "Know 
the  Lord,"  for  all  shall  know  him  from 
the  greatest  to  the  least.  (See  Jer. 
31:31-34.) 

Now,  since  we  are  engaged  in  the 
greatest  missionary  undertaking  that  has 
ever  been  planned  as  part  of  Deity's 
program,  he  has  also  placed  in  our 
hands  the  most  effective,  compelling, 
and  persuasive  missionary  tool  ever 
given  to  any  people  in  any  age.  The 
name  of  this  tool  is  the  Book  of 
Mormon. 

It  goes  without  saying  that  conversion 
in  all  ages,  for  all  peoples,  is  dependent 
upon  their  receipt  of  the  Spirit.  No  one 
gets  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the 
Lord's  work  unless  he  gains  it  from 
the  Spirit — that  is,  unless  it  comes  by 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  But  the 
Book  of  Mormon  is  the  means,  the  tool, 
the  way  which  has  been  ordained  and 
given  so  that  men  can  get  their  hearts 
and  souls  in  a  frame  of  mind,  in  a  con- 
dition where  they  can  hearken  to  the 
testimony  of  the  Spirit. 

It  was  of  this  book  that  the  Prophet 
said:  "I  told  the  Brethren  [meaning 
the  Twelve,  with  whom  he  had  that 
day  met]  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  was 
the  most  correct  of  any  book  on  earth, 
and  the  keystone  of  our  religion,  and  a 
man  would  get  nearer  to  God  by  abid- 


ing its  precepts,  than  by  any  other 
book."  (History  of  the  Church,  vol.  4, 
p.  461.) 

This  is  precisely  what  we  want  people 
to  do.  We  want  them  to  get  so  near 
to  the  Lord  that  they  will  come  down 
in  the  depths  of  humility,  repent  of 
their  sins,  and  accept  Christ  for  what 
he  is,  the  Son  of  God.  We  want  them 
to  come  to  the  truth,  join  the  kingdom  of 
God  on  earth,  and  have  performed  for 
them  the  ordinances  of  salvation  and 
exaltation  under,  the  hands  of  those 
legal  administrators  whom  the  Lord  has 
appointed  in  this  day  and  generation. 

Shortly  before  the  Church  was  organ- 
ized, April  6,  1830,  writing  by  the  spirit 
of  prophecy  and  revelation,  Joseph  Smith 
said  that  the  Book  of  Mormon,  which 
he  had  translated  by  the  gift  and  power 
of  God,  was  "...  a  record  of  a  fallen 
people,  .  .  .";  that  it  contained  ".  .  .  the 
fulness  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
to  the  Gentiles  and  to  the  Jews  .  .  ."; 
that  it  was  ".  .  .  given  by  inspira- 
tion, .  .  .";  that  it  had  been  ".  .  .  con- 
firmed to  others  by  the  ministering  of 
angels,  .  .  .";  that  it  had  been  ".  .  .  de- 
clared unto  the  world  by  them — "  all  for 
this  purpose — and  note  the  purpose:  To 
prove  ".  .  .  to  the  world  that  the  holy 
scriptures  are  true,  and  that  God  does 
inspire  men  and  call  them  to  his  holy 
work  in  this  age  and  generation,  as  well 
as  in  generations  of  old; 

"Thereby  showing  that  he  is  the  same 
God  yesterday,  today,  and  forever.  .  .  ." 
(D&C  20:6-12.) 

In  other  words,  the  Lord  has  given 
the  Book  of  Mormon  in  this  day  as  the 
absolute,  sure,  positive  witness  of  the 
divinity  of  his  work.  We  go  out  in  the 
missionary  cause,  and  we  bear  testimony 
in  soberness  and  in  truth,  knowing  the 
verity  of  what  we  say,  that  the  heavens 
have  been  opened  and  that  God  has 
spoken  again;  that  angels  have  min- 
istered to  men;  that  the  gifts,  powers, 
and  graces  had  anciently  have  been 
restored  anew;  that  the  gospel  and  the 
plan  of  salvation  are  again  on  earth 
in  all  their  ancient  beauty  and  glory. 

But  this  witness  which  we  bear  is  not 


ELDER  BRUCL 

left  to  stand  alone.  The  Lord  sends 
with  us  a  written  record,  a  means,  a 
missionary  tool,  which  can  be  used  by 
any  person  to  gain  a  knowledge  of  the 
divinity  of  the  work.  The  Prophet's 
expression  that  "the  Book  of  Mormon  is 
the  keystone  of  our  religion"  means  pre- 
cisely what  it  says.  The  keystone  is  the 
central  stone  in  the  top  of  the  arch.  If 
that  stone  is  removed,  then  the  arch 
crumbles,  which,  in  effect,  means  that 
Mormonism  so-called — which  actually 
is  the  gospel  of  Christ,  restored  anew  in 
this  day — stands  or  falls  with  the  truth 
or  the  falsity  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
Thus  our  program  and  our  purpose,  as 
witnesses  of  the  Lord  in  this  day,  ought 
to  be  to  devise  ways  and  means  and  to 
create  inducements  that  will  persuade 
those  who  are  not  of  us  to  read  the 
Book  of  Mormon  and  to  read  it  accord- 
ing to  the  revealed  pattern. 

Moroni  has  left  us  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon  itself  the  recorded  promise 
that  if  anyone  will  read  it  ".  .  .  with 
real  intent,  having  faith  in  Christ,  .  .  ." 
and  will  ask  ".  .  .  God,  the  Eternal 
Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ,  .  .  ." 
whether  it  is  true,  he  shall  get  a  knowl- 
edge of  its  truth  and  divinity  by  personal 
revelation.  (See  Moroni  10:3-4.)  This 
promise  is  true.  It  has  been  tested  by 
thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  of 
people  in  the  world,  and  they  have  re- 
ceived this  personal  revelation.  Further, 
by  his  own  voice,  the  Lord  himself 
testifies  of  the  truth  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon  in  these  words:  ".  .  .  as  your 
Lord  and  your  God  liveth  it  is  true." 
(D&C  17:6.) 

Now,  our  message  to  the  world  centers 
around  three  great  truths.  The  first, 
the  divine  Sonship  of  Christ;  the  second, 
that  in  this  day  the  knowledge  of 
Christ  and  his  saving  truths  have  been 
restored  through  the  instrumentality  of 
Joseph  Smith;  and  the  third,  that  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  is  the  kingdom  of  God  on  earth, 
the  organization  through  which  salva- 
tion, hope,  and  peace  are  offered  to 
all  men. 

Before  any  person  is  prepared  to  join 
the  Church,  he  must  believe  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  literally  the  Son  of  God;  that 
as  such  he  worked  out  the  infinite  and 
eternal  atonement  whereby  all  men  are 


R.  McCONKIE  39 

raised  in  immortality,  and  those  who 
believe  and  obey  his  laws  gain  the  addi- 
tional reward  of  eternal  life;  and  that 
he  has  ordained  and  revealed  a  plan 
of  salvation  which  enables  men  so  to 
live  as  to  gain  peace  here  and  the 
fulness  of  salvation  hereafter. 

Before  joining  the  Church  a  person 
must  believe  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
called  of  God  to  open  this  gospel  dis- 
pensation; that  he  was  indeed  a  prophet 
who  received  keys,  powers,  authority, 
and  revelation  from  heaven;  that  he  was 
the  revealer  of  the  gospel  and  the 
knowledge  of  God,  of  Christ,  and  of 
salvation  for  this  age;  and  that  he  was 
commanded  by  Deity  to  set  up  his 
Church  and  kingdom  again  on  earth. 

Before  baptism  a  person  must  believe 
that  this  Church  is  true;  that  it  is  in 
fact  the  Lord's  earthly  kingdom;  that 
the  priesthood  and  keys  are  here;  that 
those  who  now  officer  it  are  legal  ad- 
ministrators sent  of  God  to  preach  the 
gospel  and  administer  in  the  ordinances 
thereof. 

The  Book  of  Mormon — which  has 
come  forth  to  prove  that  God  inspires 
men  and  calls  them  to  his  holy  work 
in  this  age  and  generation — establishes 
the  verity  of  these  great  truths  which 
comprise  the  message  of  the  restoration. 
If  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  true,  our 
message  to  the  world  is  truth;  the  truth 
of  this  message  is  established  in  and 
through  this  book. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  is  a  new,  living, 
modern  witness  of  the  divine  Sonship 
of  Christ.  It  testifies  of  him  and  of  the 
doctrines  of  his  gospel.  It  teaches  of 
his  atoning  sacrifice;  it  proclaims  that 
through  him  men  are  redeemed  from 
the  spiritual  and  temporal  death  brought 
into  the  world  by  the  fall  of  Adam.  It 
outlines  the  course  men  must  follow  to 
gain  eternal  life. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  stands  as  a  wit- 
ness of  the  divine  Sonship  of  Christ;  it 
has  come  forth  for  ".  .  .  the  convincing 
of  the  Jew  and  Gentile  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  Eternal  God,  manifesting 
himself  unto  all  nations —  .  .  ."  (Preface 
to  the  Book  of  Mormon.) 

This  book  also  is  a  witness  of  the 
divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  and  of  the  divinity  of  the 
Church  set  up  under  his  instrumentality. 


40 

Thursday,  April  6 

It  establishes  and  proves  to  the  world 
that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet,  for  he 
received  the  book  from  a  resurrected 
personage  and  translated  it  by  the  gift 
and  power  of  God.  And  since  the  Book 
of  Mormon  came  by  revelation,  which 
included  the  ministering  of  angels,  then 
obviously  Joseph  Smith  also  received 
other  revelations  and  was  ministered  to 
by  other  heavenly  beings.  Among  those 
revelations  was  the  command  to  organ- 
ize the  Church.  The  Church  is  thus 
the  one  true  Church  because  it  was  set 
up  by  a  prophet  acting  under  command 
of  God.  Thus  the  truth  of  the  message 
of  the  restoration  is  established  in  and 
through  and  by  means  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon. 

No  person  can  read  this  book,  accord- 
ing to  the  prescribed  pattern,  and  not 
know  that  it  is  true.  No  person  can 
read  this  book,  in  the  way  Moroni  di- 
rected, without  getting  in  his  heart  the 
absolute,  certain,  sure  knowledge  that 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God.  No 
person  can  read  this  book  and  learn  of 
its  divinity  ".  .  .  by  the  power  of  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

Holy  Ghost  .  .  ."  (Moroni  10:5),  with- 
out knowing  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a 
Prophet  of  God  and  that  this  Church, 
as  now  constituted,  organized,  and  set 
up  is  God's  kingdom  on  earth. 

As  one  voice  among  thousands  of 
others,  I  certify  that  I  know  by  the 
promptings  of  the  Spirit  that  the  Book 
of  Mormon  is  true.  As  a  consequence  I 
have  in  addition  a  personal  knowledge, 
also  born  of  the  Spirit,  of  the  divinity 
of  Christ,  of  the  divine  mission  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  of  all  things 
incident  to  this  great  latter-day  work 
which  are  essential  for  the  salvation  and 
exaltation  of  men. 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy.  Elder  An- 
toine  R.  Ivins  will  be  our  next  speaker. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  LeGrand 
Richards  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  happy 
again  to  have  the  privilege  of  bearing 
my  testimony  to  you  in  the  general 
conference  of  the  Church.  I  realize  I 
will  be  able  to  say  nothing  that  will 
help  you  or  me  unless  you  give  me  your 
faith  and  prayers  that  I  may  enjoy  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

Much  has  been  said  during  the  con- 
ference thus  far  of  the  missionary  re- 
sponsibility under  which  we  as  members 
of  the  Church  rest.  I  stand  before  you, 
as  many  of  you  know,  as  the  grandson 
of  a  member  of  the  Twelve  who  went  to 
introduce  the  gospel  to  Europe,  starting 
in  Denmark.  I  am  the  son  of  one  of 
eight  men  who  carried  the  work  to  the 
Mexican  people,  traveling  on  horseback, 
carrying  their  beds  on  pack  horses. 

I  have  lived  practically  all  of  my  life, 
all  my  life  in  fact,  in  an  atmosphere  of 
Church  service,  and  I  trust  that  to  the 
end  of  my  days,  I  may  be  able  to  acquit 


myself  in  some  reasonable  way  of  the 
responsibility  under  which  I  labor. 

We  are  getting  reports  from  many 
sections  and  many  missions  of  the  great 
influx  of  new  members  into  the  Church. 
When  I  began  this  service,  if  a  mission- 
ary performed  a  baptism  a  year  in  a 
foreign  mission  he  was  considered  suc- 
cessful. The  harvest  is  tremendously 
greater  now.  It  is  very,  very  interesting 
to  contemplate  it,  and  one  wonders  why, 
and  I  cannot  quite  figure  it  out  except  it 
be  that  the  Lord  has  seen  fit  to  pour 
out  his  Spirit  upon  a  greater  number 
of  people  than  formerly  was  the  case.  I 
cannot  believe  that  anybody  has  a 
stronger  testimony  of  the  gospel  than  my 
grandfather  and  my  father  had.  I  can- 
not believe  that  anybody  is  more 
susceptible,  as  a  missionary  for  the 
Church,  to  the  inspiration  and  the  Spirit 
of  God  than  the  missionaries  who  went 
out  in  the  very  early  days  of  the  Church. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  WINS 


41 


But  we  see  the  fact  that  many  people, 
more  people  perhaps  than  ever  before, 
are  coming  into  the  Church.  It  means 
to  us,  or  it  means  to  me,  an  additional 
responsibility  when  that  happens. 

Not  very  long  ago,  a  few  large  trees 
that  stood  on  the  corner  of  South  Temple 
and  State  Street  were  picked  up  and 
transplanted.  In  the  transplanting  of 
them  it  was  necessary  to  give  them 
auxiliary  support  with  guy  wires  from 
several  sides  to  hold  them  until  they 
could  become  established  in  their  new 
environment.  In  a  sense,  every  new  con- 
vert to  the  Church  is  a  transplanted 
being  in  that  he  needs  the  support  of 
the  established  members  of  the  Church. 
If  that  support  is  given,  he  becomes  a 
full-fledged,  faithful  member  of  the 
Church.  If  that  support  is  not  given,  he 
may  do,  as  far  as  his  faith  is  concerned, 
as  a  transplanted  tree  that  is  not  properly 
nourished. 

I  would  like  to  tell  you  a  story,  if  you 
will  let  me,  to  illustrate  what  I  mean. 
Sixty  years  or  more  ago,  a  young  man 
walking  down  a  street,  I  believe,  in 
Memphis,  Tennessee,  heard  some  mis- 
sionaries speaking  in  a  street  meeting. 
He  had  been  very  unfriendly  up  to  that 
time,  but  something  impelled  him  to 
stop  and  listen.  He  listened  throughout 
that  meeting.  After  the  meeting  he 
walked  up  to  the  elders  and  asked  to  be 
baptized.  He  got  a  testimony  from  it, 
not,  I  think,  from  what  the  elders  said, 
but  because  some  way  or  another  he 
was  ready  for  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  God 
did  bear  that  testimony  to  him.  He 
asked  for  baptism.  In  due  course  he 
was  baptized,  and  when  he  became  a 
member  of  the  Church  he  was  an  out- 
cast from  his  family.  So  he  looked 
around,  and  one  day  he  appeared  in 
Colonia  Juarez,  a  new  member,  inexpe- 
rienced in  Church  operations  and  all 
that,  and  of  course  he  got  into  the  right 
kind  of  an  environment  because  the 
people  in  Colonia  Juarez  were  friendly 
people;  they  were  interested  people,  and 
they  gave  him  every  aid  possible. 

But  only  this  week  I  had  the  privilege 
of  reading  two  letters  that  told  of  the 
interest  they  had  in  that  man,  one  was 
a  letter  from  his  bishop  and  the  other 
was  a  letter  from  his  stake  president, 
and  in  both  we  discovered  that  there  was 
not  only  interest  in  the  man's  spiritual 


well-being,  but  in  his  physical  well- 
being,  also,  and  both  his  bishop  and  his 
stake  president  stood  ready  to  assist  to 
any  possible  extent  in  that.  Well,  do 
you  want  to  know  the  result?  All  right. 
He  married  for  time  and  eternity  one 
of  the  finest  young  women  we  had  in  the 
colony.  He  had  three  sons  and  three 
daughters.  One  of  those  sons  was  a 
missionary  in  the  area  that  is  now  the 
Central  Atlantic  States  Mission.  A 
daughter  became  the  wife  of  a  mission- 
ary who  served  in  France.  He  went 
there  before  he  was  married,  I  believe, 
but  later  was  the  president  of  the  Central 
American  Mission,  faithful  and  true. 
And  their  mother,  to  this  day,  while 
not  being  strong  in  health,  is  a  firm, 
faithful  member  of  the  Church.  He 
died  in  full  fellowship,  of  course,  with 
the  love  and  with  the  esteem  and  confi- 
dence of  the  people  of  that  area.  Why? 
Well,  he  had  the  qualities  in  the  first 
place  for  inspiration,  but  he  had  the 
support  and  the  aid  of  the  officers  of 
Colonia  Juarez. 

Now,  you  will  pardon  me  if  I  have  a 
little  extra  enthusiasm  for  Juarez,  be- 
cause that  is  where  I  grew  up  and  got 
my  foundation.  But  in  every  mission  in 
the  Church  these  new  converts  come 
into  branches.  In  some  places,  of  course, 
they  come  into  stakes,  as  we  have  here 
in  the  United  States,  and  what  happens? 
Whose  responsibility  is  it  to  nurse 
them?  I  think  it  is  the  responsibility 
of  the  bishops,  and  even  stake  presidents 
cannot  ignore  the  influx  and  the  re- 
sponsibility of  giving  aid  and  support. 

Now,  I  wonder  whether  we  do  it, 
brethren.  Our  campaign  throughout 
the  stakes  is  to  impress  the  local  ward 
and  stake  authorities  with  the  responsi- 
bility of  assimilating  all  these  new 
members  who  come  in  by  baptism  or 
who  come  in  on  recommend  from  other 
areas  of  the  Church,  to  stimulate  them 
in  their  faith  and  in  their  endeavor  to 
live  the  way  they  should  after  accept- 
ing the  responsibilities  of  membership 
in  the  Church. 

There  is  another  phase  of  responsi- 
bility, too,  that  we  have,  brethren  and 
sisters.  I  wish  that  all  of  you  could 
have  been  with  Sister  Ivins  and  me  last 
Sunday  and  heard  a  talk  by  a  teen-age 
young  woman  setting  forth  her  plan  for 
qualifying   for   celestial   marriage.  I 


42 

Thursday,  April  6 

think  I  have  never  heard  a  better  state- 
ment from  a  young  person  than  that 
young  woman  made,  and  when  she 
talked,  I  formed  a  picture  of  the  family 
from  which  she  likely  came;  of  the 
household  where  she  had  been  reared;  of 
the  life  of  her  father  and  mother  and  the 
example  that  they  had  set  for  her  to 
stimulate  her  in  this  great  endeavor.  And 
if  she  carries  through  the  program  that 
she  set  forth,  the  man  who  happens  to 
marry  her  will  be  a  wonderfully  fortu- 
nate man. 

Now,  we  bring  these  people  into  the 
Church  through  birth,  but  that  does  not 
in  any  sense  relieve  us  of  as  great  or 
greater  responsibility  for  them  as  we 
have  for  these  newly-baptized  and  trans- 
planted members  of  the  Church.  So, 
after  all,  there  resides  in  the  body  of 
the  Church  the  greatest  imaginable  re- 
sponsibility— responsibility  to  the  young 
lives  whom  we  bring  into  the  Church, 
responsibility  to  the  more  mature  people 
whom  we  bring  in  through  the  ministry 
of  the  missionary  service,  and  it  is  very 
unfortunate  when  either  of  these  is  lost 
because  of  the  neglect  of  the  people  who 
form  the  body  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  can  just 
get  out  of  my  testimony  a  feeling  that 
we  do  have  a  responsibility  to  these 
people  and  that  the  fathers  and  mothers 
have  a  real  responsibility  to  love  each 
other  and  love  their  children  into  cor- 
rect and  proper  living  and  service  in 
the  Church,  I  will  be  happy  that  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

President  called  me  to  bear  my  testi- 
mony to  you. 

I  testify  that  the  gospel  is  true.  I 
know  it.  A  man  came  to  me  the  other 
day  and  he  said,  "How  do  you  know 
it?"  I  said,  "I  have  just  as  great  an 
assurance  that  the  gospel  is  true  as  of 
anything  else  I  experience."  I  do  not 
know,  I  never  have  claimed  that  I  know 
everything  that  could  be  known  about 
the  gospel,  but  I  have  lived  among 
enough  people  of  varying  nationalities 
to  know  that  it  is  a  regenerating  force 
which  tends  to  exaltation  in  the  king- 
dom of  God  when  it  is  accepted  by 
baptism  and  when  one  makes  a  rea- 
sonable effort  to  live  the  teachings  of 
God  our  Heavenly  Father. 

I  hope  that  I  may  be  able  to  do  it.  I 
am  a  little  like  my  wife's  grandfather — 
I  sat  up  with  him  when  he  was  in  his 
nineties  and  on  his  deathbed,  and  he 
said,  "Antoine,  I  hope  I  can  endure  to 
the  end."  So  I  hope  that  I  may  enjoy 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  the  spirit  of  serv- 
ice, for  my  life  is  dedicated  to  the  service 
of  the  Church  and  to  each  other. 

May  God  bless  you,  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins  has  just 
spoken  to  us — a  member  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy.  Elder  LeGrand 
Richards  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
will  now  address  us. 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brothers  and  sisters,  in  occupying 
this  position  today  for  a  few  moments, 
I  have  no  greater  desire  and  prayer  in 
my  heart  than  that  I  might  say  some- 
thing that  will  help  to  increase  our  love 
for  the  truth  and  our  desire  to  serve  the 
Lord,  to  be  an  example  to  the  world 
and  to  our  families,  and  to  all  men, 
that  we  may  show  forth  the  gifts  and 
graces  of  the  gospel  through  the  lives  we 
live. 

In  thinking  of  what  I  might  say  today, 
I  want  to  make  reference  to  a  statement 
I  read  in  an  article  in  the  Reader's 


Digest  about  six  months  ago  that  gave 
seven  reasons  why  a  scientist  believed  in 
God.  This  was  by  A.  Cressy  Morrison, 
former  president  of  the  New  York  Acad- 
emy of  Sciences.  I  am  not  going  to  take 
time  to  read  the  article,  but  I  want  to 
read  these  statements. 

For  the  first  reason,  he  said:  "By  un- 
wavering mathematical  law,  we  can 
prove  that  our  universe  was  designed 
and  executed  by  a  great  engineering 
intelligence."  And  then  after  he  had 
given  the  seven  reasons  why  he  believed 
there  was  a  God,  he  made  this  state- 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


43 


ment:  "It  is  apparent  from  these  and 
a  host  of  other  examples  that  there  is 
not  one  chance  in  billions  that  life  on 
our  planet  is  an  accident,"  and  then 
he  concluded  with  these  words:  "It  is 
scientifically,  as  well  as  imaginatively 
true,  as  the  Psalmist  said,  'The  heavens 
declare  the  glory  of  God;  and  the  fir- 
mament sheweth  his  handwork.' " 
(Psalm  19:1.) 

This  is  the  thought  I  had  as  I  read 
that  article,  which  I  appreciated  so 
much,  as  I  did  a  talk  that  Brother  Clark 
gave  to  seminary  and  institute  teachers 
called,  "Man,  God's  Greatest  Miracle." 
The  scientists  and  this  scientist  give 
wonderful  reasons  why  there  was  an 
intelligence — a  major  intelligence — that 
brought  forth  this  universe,  but  the 
scientists  cannot  go  beyond  that.  They 
cannot  tell  us  why  it  was  brought  forth, 
and  wherever  you  see  an  intelligent  or- 
ganization, you  know  that  there  was  a 
reason  for  it.  This  building  did  not 
just  happen  here.  You  do  not  go  into 
the  wilderness  and  find  a  forty-story 
office  building.  Everything  in  this 
world  that  shows  intelligence  back  of  it 
had  a  reason  for  its  coming  into  exist- 
ence. 

So,  when  he  says  it  is  apparent  from 
these  and  a  host  of  other  examples  that 
there  is  not  one  chance  in  billions  that 
life  on  our  planet  is  an  accident,  I  could 
just  as  well  believe  that  my  watch  made 
itself  as  to  believe  that  we  made  our- 
selves or  that  this  universe  made  itself. 
There  is  a  master  intelligence  back  of  it. 

Then  the  question  is,  if  the  scientists 
cannot  tell  us  why  this  organization, 
where  do  we  go  to  get  this  information? 
Then  I  remind  you  of  the  words  of  the 
Prophet  Amos  when  he  said: 

"Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do  nothing, 
but  he  revealeth  his  secret  unto  his 
servants  the  prophets."  (Amos  3:7.) 

So  we  have  to  turn  to  the  prophets 
to  find  the  secret  of  why  the  Lord 
created  this  earth,  why  we  are  here, 
and  all  the  marvelous  things  that  evi- 
dence the  fact  that  he  does  exist. 

I  like  the  statement  in  the  first  chap- 
ter of  John: 

"In  the  beginning  was  the  Word,  and 
the  Word  was  with  God,  and  the  Word 
was  God.  .  .  . 

"All  things  were  made  by  him;  and 


without  him  was  not  any  thing  made 

that  was  made."  (John  1:1,  3.) 

Then  it  goes  on  to  say  that  the  Word 

".  .  .  was  the  true  light,  which  lighteth 

every  man  that  cometh  into  the  world." 

(Ibid.,  1:9.) 

And  then  it  adds  that 

".  .  .  the  Word  was  made  flesh,  and 

dwelt  among  us,  (and  we  beheld  his 

glory,  the  glory  as  of  the  only  begotten 

of  the  Father,)  full  of  grace  and  truth." 

{Ibid.,  1:14.) 

No  wonder  we  love  to  testify  of  the 
divinity  of  the  Son  of  God  when  we 
realize  that  he  was  the  instrument  in 
the  hands  of  the  Lord  in  bringing  about 
all  this  marvelous  creation,  and  this 
scientist  said,  "there  is  not  one  chance  in 
billions  that  life  on  our  planet  is  an 
accident."  And  you  know  in  the  Pearl 
of  Great  Price,  we  read  where  the  Lord 
said  to  Moses  that  he  had  created  worlds 
without  number, 

".  .  .  but  all  things  are  numbered  unto 
me,  for  they  are  mine  .  .  .  (Moses  1:35.) 
"And  by  the  word  of  my  power,  have  I 
created  them,  which  is  mine  Only  Be- 
gotten Son  "  (Ibid.,  1:32.) 

Just  think  of  who  it  is  we  serve,  and 
the  power  that  God  gave  to  him.  No 
wonder  when  he  was  upon  the  earth 
he  said  to  Peter  that  he  could  call  down 
legions  of  angels  to  protect  him,  when 
Peter  drew  his  sword  and  smote  off  the 
ear  of  the  guard.  No  wonder  he  said, 
"No  man  taketh  my  life  from  me.  The 
Father  hath  given  me  power  to  lay  it 
down  and  take  it  up  again."  (See  John 
10:18.) 

We  have  had  reference  made  here 
today  to  the  council  in  heaven,  and 
after  the  Lord  had  stood  in  the  midst  of 
the  spirits,  and  many  of  them  the  noble 
and  great  ones,  he  said: 

",  .  .  These  I  will  make  my  rulers; 
.  .  .  Abraham,  thou  art  one  of  them; 
thou  wast   chosen  before  thou  wast 
bom."  (Abraham  3:23.) 
Then  he  said: 

"And  there  stood  one  among  them 
that  was  like  unto  God,  and  he  said 
unto  those  who  were  with  him:  We 
will  go  down,  for  there  is  space  there, 
and  we  will  take  of  these  materials, 
and  we  will  make  an  earth  whereon 
these  may  dwell; 

"And  we  will  prove  them  herewith,  to 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


44 

Thursday,  April  6 

see  if  they  will  do  all  things  whatsoever 
the  Lord  their  God  shall  command 
them;"  (Ibid.,  3:24-25.) 

As  Brother  Carl  W.  Buehner  pointed 
out,  we  have  a  lot  of  people  who  will 
do  some  of  the  things,  but  the  purpose 
of  creating  this  earth  upon  which  we 
might  dwell  was  that  the  Lord  would 
prove  us  to  see  whether  we  were  willing 
to  do  all  things  whatsoever  the  Lord 
hath  commanded.  And  in  a  revelation 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  we  are  told  that 
the  Lord  has  given  us  "commandments 
not  a  few."  (D&C  59:4.) 

There  are  some  who  would  object  to 
that.  They  would  rather  have  one  or 
two  commandments,  but  the  Lord  never 
gave  a  commandment  unto  his  children 
without  a  promised  blessing.  You  just 
read  them.  Read  the  Beatitudes,  and 
with  every  one  there  is  a  promised 
blessing. 

Take  the  one  on  the  law  of  tithing. 

".  .  .  prove  me  now  herewith,  saith 
the  Lord  of  hosts,  if  I  will  not  open  you 
the  windows  of  heaven,  and  pour  you 
out  a  blessing,  that  there  shall  not  be 
room  enough  to  receive  it. 

"And  I  will  rebuke  the  devourer  for 
your  sakes,  and  he  shall  not  destroy  the 
fruits  of  your  ground;  neither  shall  your 
vine  cast  her  fruit  before  the  time  in 
the  field,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts. 

"And  all  nations  shall  call  you 
blessed:  .  .  ."  (Malachi  3:10-12.) 

We  usually  stop  there,  but  you  just 
read  the  rest  of  that  chapter,  the  third 
chapter  of  Malachi. 

They  began  reasoning  among  them- 
selves and  showing  how  some  of  the 
wicked  were  more  blessed  financially 
than  some  of  the  righteous,  and  what 
did  the  Lord  do  about  it?  He  required 
that  a  book  of  remembrance  should  be 
written  before  him,  and  in  that  book 
should  be  recorded  the  names  of  those 
who  feared  the  Lord,  and  then  he  adds: 

"And  they  shall  be  mine,  saith  the 
Lord  of  hosts,  in  that  day  when  I  make 
up  my  jewels;  .  .  . 

"Then  shall  ye  return,  and  discern 
between  the  righteous  and  the  wicked, 
between  him  that  serveth  God  and  him 
that  serveth  him  not."  (Ibid.,  3:17-18.) 

I  have  always  said  that  when  I  was 
the  Presiding  Bishop,  we  did  not  place 
the  paying  of  tithing  in  the  youth  pro- 


First  Day 

gram  to  obtain  an  individual  award  to 
get  more  money.  We  wanted  every  boy 
and  girl  in  Israel  to  have  their  names 
recorded  in  the  Lord's  book  of  remem- 
brance and  to  be  numbered  among  his 
jewels. 

Speaking  of  doing  all  things  what- 
soever the  Lord  hath  commanded,  you 
will  remember  that  the  Lord  said: 

"I,  the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do 
what  I  say;  but  when  ye  do  not  what 
I  say,  ye  have  no  promise."  (D&C 
82-10.) 

So  all  we  need  to  do  is  to  know  what 
the  Lord  says  and  then  do  it,  and  then 
we  have  the  Lord's  promise  that  he  will 
make  good. 

I  could  tell  you  many  stories  about 
tithing  to  let  you  know  that  the  Lord 
doesn't  fail.  I  have  the  faith  that  a 
man  can  keep  out  of  debt  longer,  get 
out  of  debt  easier,  live  more  comfortably 
on  the  ninety  cents  on  the  dollar,  with 
the  blessing  of  the  Lord,  than  on  the 
dollar  when  he  "paddles  his  own 
canoe,"  if  you  will  let  me  put  it  into 
those  words,  because  I  have  watched  it, 
and  I  know  that  it  works  in  the  lives  of 
people. 

Sister  Richards  and  I  toured  the  Scan- 
dinavian missions  a  year  ago  last  sum- 
mer, and  some  of  their  leading  men 
who  joined  the  Church  said  that  the 
one  thing  that  held  them  back  was  the 
payment  of  tithing.  "Now,"  they  said, 
"we  have  more  money  to  spend  than 
we  have  ever  had  in  our  lives.  Now 
we  can  go  to  the  temple  and  do  other 
things  that  we  never  thought  we  could 
do  before." 

You  remember  what  President  Grant 
used  to  tell  about  the  Sunday  School 
teacher  who  took  ten  big  red  apples 
to  her  Sunday  School  class,  and  she 
explained  to  her  class  that  everything 
we  have  in  this  world  we  got  from  the 
Lord,  and  then  she  said,  "If  I  were  to 
give  all  these  apples  to  any  one  of  you, 
you  would  be  glad  to  give  one  of  them 
back  to  me,  wouldn't  you?"  And  of 
course,  they  all  agreed  that  they  would. 

But  President  Grant  said,  "We  have 
a  lot  of  Latter-day  Saints  who  wouldn't 
give  one  back  until  they  had  taken  a 
few  big  bites  out  of  it."  I  wonder  if 
that  isn't  what  the  Lord  meant  when 
he  told  us  the  purpose  of  the  creation 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


45 


of  this  earth  was  to  see  if  we  would  do 
all  things,  not  a  few  things. 

You  bishops,  when  you  have  your 
tithing  settlement,  don't  your  hearts  re- 
joice when  the  widow  and  the  orphan 
and  the  old  man  and  the  young  man 
come  in  and  settle  their  tithing,  and 
they  say,  "Bishop,  it's  a  full  tithing." 
God  bless  them  for  it.  I  wish  we  all 
had  that  courage,  because  the  Lord  is 
bound,  he  said,  when  we  do  what  he 
says. 

I  was  in  a  Sunday  School  class  some 
time  ago,  and  the  matter  of  the  Word 
of  Wisdom  came  up,  and  one  sister,  the 
wife  of  one  of  our  prominent  brethren, 
said,  "I  wish  the  brethren  would  quit 
harping  on  the  Word  of  Wisdom." 
Well,  nobody  said  anything,  and  so  I 
asked  if  I  might  say  a  few  words,  and 
I  asked  if  they  thought  it  was  "harping" 
to  remind  the  people  of  the  mind  and 
the  will  of  the  Lord. 

Let  me  read  you  what  the  Lord  has 
to  say  about  the  Word  of  Wisdom  with 
his  promises,  because  every  command- 
ment the  Lord  gives  has  a  promised 
blessing  if  we  will  just  keep  the  com- 
mandments. The  Word  of  Wisdom  is: 

"Given  for  a  principle  with  promise, 
adapted  to  the  capacity  of  the  weak  and 
the  weakest  of  all  saints,  who  are  or 
can  be  called  saints.  (Ibid.,  89:3.) 

I  labored,  as  you  know,  much  in  the 
mission  field.  I  presided  over  two  mis- 
sions. We  had  many  Saints  who  had 
used  tobacco  and  tea  and  coffee,  and 
some  of  them  liquor,  all  of  their  lives, 
and  it  was  hard  for  some  of  them  to 
quit.  I  remember  being  in  one  meeting 
with  a  stalwart  man  sitting  right  down 
in  front  of  me,  and  as  I  read  these 
words,  "Adapted  to  the  capacity  of  the 
weak  and  the  weakest  of  all  saints, 
who  are  or  can  be  called  saints,"  I 
said:  "If  there  are  any  Latter-day  Saints 
in  this  mission  weaker  than  that  we  will 
not  ask  them  to  keep  the  Word  of 
Wisdom."  At  the  close  of  the  meeting, 
that  big  fellow  came  up  and  said,  "Presi- 
dent Richards,  I  am  not  that  weak." 
I  said,  "I  didn't  think  you  were.  I  just 
wanted  to  let  you  know  what  the  Lord 
had  to  say  about  this  principle." 

I  have  to  close  in  a  minute,  but  1 
want  to  read  you  one  more  promise: 

"And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great 


treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures;"  (Ibid.,  89:19.) 

Is  there  any  Latter-day  Saint  in  this 
world  who  wouldn't  want  his  children 
to  get  hidden  treasures  of  knowledge? 
President  McKay  talked  about  that  this 
morning. 

A  short  time  ago  I  attended  a  youth 
conference  in  Carthage,  Illinois,  where 
the  Prophet  and  his  brother  Hyrum 
were  martyred,  and  we  had  over  five 
hundred  young  people  there  in  the 
auditorium  of  the  college.  They  had 
come,  some  of  them,  a  thousand  miles, 
and  we  held  a  four-hour  testimony 
meeting.  We  never  lost  one  minute 
between  one  speaker  and  the  next  for 
those  four  hours,  and  those  young  people 
stood  there,  many  of  them  overcome 
with  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  until  they 
could  hardly  bear  their  testimonies,  but 
their  hearts  were  full,  and  they  wanted 
to  testify,  and  I  said  to  myself,  "Where 
could  you  find  anything  like  this  in  all 
the  world  other  than  among  our  young 
people?"  Surely  the  Lord  had  blessed 
them  with  "great  treasures  of  knowledge, 
even  hidden  treasures." 

I  want  to  leave  another  thought  with 
you  before  I  close.  I  interviewed  a 
young  man  for  his  mission  some  time 
ago  here  in  the  state  of  Utah.  He  had 
spent  eighteen  months  in  an  army 
camp  in  Germany,  and  he  related  this 
experience.  He  said:  "We  Mormon 
boys  went  to  the  chief  chaplain  to  see 
if  we  could  get  permission  to  hold  our 
meetings  in  the  government  chapel,  and 
the  chaplain  said,  "Well,  we  would  like 
to  accommodate  you,  but  it  is  in  such 
constant  use  we  just  can't  do  it.  There  is 
a  classroom  down  in  the  basement.  You 
can  use  that.'  Then  he  asked  for  a  re- 
port of  the  meetings. 

"When  the  first  report  was  handed 
in,  the  chaplain  said,  'My,  you  must 
have  a  lot  of  Mormon  boys  at  this  base,' 
and  he  was  told  there  were  thirty-five. 
He  said,  'I  can't  believe  it.  How  do  you 
do  it?  Why,  you  have  more  boys  at- 
tending your  meetings  than  I  have 
attending  mine,  and  I  have  5,000  Prot- 
estant boys  under  my  supervision.  I'll 
tell  you  what  we'll  do.  We'll  take  the 
classroom  in  the  basement,  and  you  can 
have  the  chapel.' " 

The  Lord  said,  "And  they  shall  find 


46 

Thursday,  April  6 

wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowl- 
edge." Is  there  any  treasure  of  knowl- 
edge in  this  world  to  be  sought  after, 
more  desirable  than  to  know  that  God 
lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  to  know 
that  his  kingdom  has  been  established 
again  in  the  earth,  to  know  that  God 
has  promised  a  reward  for  every  com- 
mandment that  he  has  given,  to  know 
that  he  has  created  this  earth  that  we 
might  prove  unto  him  that  we  would 
do  all  things,  not  just  a  few  of  them, 
all  things  whatsoever  the  Lord  our 
God  hath  commanded? 

God  help  us  as  a  people  to  do  that 
that  we  may  be  a  light  unto  the  world, 
I  pray,  and  leave  you  my  blessing,  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder 
LeGrand  Richards  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve. 

The  Presiding  Bishopric  of  the 
Church  will  hold  a  meeting  in  the 
Tabernacle  Friday,  April  7,  tomorrow 
evening,  at  7:00  p.m.  Those  expected 
to  attend  this  meeting  include  bishops 
and  their  counselors,  ward  clerks, 
stake  and  ward  committees  for  Aaronic 
Priesthood  under  21,  stake  and  ward 
committees  for  senior  members  of  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood,  members  of  stake 
presidencies,  high  councilmen,  and  stake 
clerks  are  invited  to  attend. 

There  will  be  a  Welfare  Agricultural 
Meeting  Saturday  morning  at  7:30 
o'clock.  Stake  presidents,  bishoprics, 
or  their  representatives,  agricultural 
representatives,  and  all  who  are  in- 
terested in  agriculture  are  invited  to 
attend  this  meeting. 

This  morning,  in  announcing  those 
who  were  present  as  visitors  and  hold- 
ing national  positions,  we  omitted  the 
Honorable  M.  Blaine  Peterson,  United 
States  Congressman  from  Utah,  who 
has  been  present  at  all  our  meetings 
this  day.  All  others  are  also  made 
welcome  to  these  meetings,  not  only 
today  but  throughout  the  entire  Con- 
ference. 

The  Primary  Teachers'  Chorus  has 
inspired  us  with  their  presence  and  with 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

their  lovely  singing.  We  cannot  praise 
our  sisters,  our  wives  and  daughters, 
too  highly  for  their  service  in  this 
Church.  In  building  meeting  houses, 
rendering  service  as  musicians,  devot- 
ing their  time  as  teachers,  as  Relief 
Society  teachers,  teaching  in  the  class- 
rooms, whatever  duty  we  might  re- 
quire of  our  wives  and  daughters,  they 
respond  wholeheartedly,  willingly,  and 
ably.  In  behalf  of  the  congregation, 
here  in  the  buildings  where  they  have 
heard  and  seen  you,  and  in  behalf  of 
the  entire  listening  audience,  sisters, 
I  express  appreciation  of  your  lovely 
service  during  our  sessions.  God  bless 
you.  You  represent  Primary  teachers 
who  have  under  their  jurisdiction  over 
200,000  of  our  children— 200,000,  just 
one  group.  It  is  marvelous  to  contem- 
plate how  comprehensive  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  Church  is.  It  is  the  Lord's 
Church. 

A  distinguishing  feature  of  this 
Church  is  its  organization.  We  sug- 
gest that  any  who  have  any  doubts 
about  it,  just  examine  the  organization 
as  an  education  system,  as  a  spiritualiz- 
ing power,  as  a  helpful  organization  in 
society — in  any  degree — which  it  offers 
to  the  individual  soul  from  birth  to 
death  and  throughout  eternity. 

God  bless  not  only  our  sisters,  but 
bless  all  the  Church,  throughout  all  the 
land,  and  all  the  honest  in  heart, 
wherever  they  may  be,  who  are  seek- 
ing to  find  peace  in  their  hearts,  in 
their  homes,  and  in  society,  in  nations. 

The  Primary  Teachers  Chorus  will 
now  sing  "The  Lord's  Prayer,"  con- 
ducted by  Sister  Lue  Groesbeck,  and 
after  the  benediction  by  Elder  Howard 
William  Barben,  president  of  the  West 
Jordan  Stake,  the  general  sessions  of 
this  Conference  will  be  adjourned  until 
ten  o'clock  Saturday  morning. 


Singing  by  the  Primary  Teachers 
Chorus,  "The  Lord's  Prayer." 

President  Howard  William  Barben  of 
the  West  Jordan  Stake  offered  the  clos- 
ing prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10:00 
a.m.,  Saturday,  April  8,  1961. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  Saturday,  April 
8,  at  10  o'clock  a.m.  (No  general  ses- 
sions of  the  Conference  were  held  on 
Friday,  April  7.) 

This  session,  which  was  the  third 
general  session  of  the  Conference  com- 
menced promptly  at  10:00  a.m.,  with 
President  David  O.  McKay  presiding 
and  conducting. 

The  music  for  this  session  of  the 
Conference  was  furnished  by  the  Com- 
bined Choirs  of  the  Logan  LDS  Insti- 
tute of  Religion  and  the  Utah  State 
University,  conducted  by  James  L.  Brad- 
ley.  Frank  W.  Asper  was  at  the  organ. 

President  McKay  opened  the  Confer- 
ence with  the  following  introductory 
remarks: 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle 
on  Temple  Square  of  Salt  Lake  City  in 
the  third  general  session  of  the  One 
Hundred  Thirty-first  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

We  excuse  Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  who  is  in 
South  Africa  on  appointment  from  the 
Church.  We  extend  to  him  and  to  all 
members  of  his  family  our  sincere 
sympathy  in  the  loss  of  Brother  Hugh 
Brown's  brother,  Scott,  who  passed 
away  a  few  days  ago  and  who  was 
buried  yesterday. 

We  miss  also  from  our  presence, 
President  Clark,  who  was  advised  by 
his  doctor  this  morning  not  to  attempt 
to  attend  this  session.  We  send  our 
love  to  him. 

Elder  A.  Theodore  Tuttle  is  absent  in 
South  America  on  appointment  by  the 
Church,  as  also  Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer, 
who  is  presiding  over  the  European 
Mission.  The  other  members  of  the 
General  Authorities  are  in  their  places 
on  the  rostrum. 

The  Tabernacle  is  filled  to  capacity 
with  members  standing  in  the  door- 
ways. We  announce  to  all  that  these 
general  sessions  of  the  Conference  are 


being  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall 
and  in  Barratt  Hall  by  television,  so  that 
those  who  are  standing  in  the  doorways 
may  find  seats  in  these  other  buildings. 

This  session  is  being  broadcast  as  a 
public  service  over  television  and  radio 
stations  throughout  the  West.  The 
names  of  these  stations  were  announced 
to  the  television  and  radio  audience 
just  prior  to  the  opening  of  this  meet- 
ing. To  the  managers  and  all  asso- 
ciated with  these  various  stations,  we 
express  our  sincere  appreciation  for  this 
outstanding  public  service. 

The  Combined  Choirs  of  the  Logan 
Institute  of  Religion  and  the  Utah 
State  University  will  furnish  the  music 
for  both  sessions  today.  We  are  pleased 
to  have  these  young  people  present  and 
know  that  we  shall  be  thrilled  by  their 
singing.  We  thank  the  President  and 
the  Board  of  the  University  for  their 
kindness  in  permitting  these  students 
to  be  present  today. 

We  also  extend  a  hearty  welcome  to 
this  large  audience  in  the  Tabernacle, 
to  the  great  audience  of  members  and 
friends  who  are  listening  in  by  radio 
and  television.  We  express  appreciation 
for  the  presence  of  special  guests,  stake 
presidencies,  bishoprics,  temple  presi- 
dents, and  other  general  officers  of  the 
Church,  and  especially  also  to  our  na- 
tional, state,  and  city  officials  and 
educational  leaders. 

We  have  the  following  cable  which 
was  just  received,  from  the  North  British 
Mission:  "The  missionaries  and  Saints 
of  the  North  British  Mission  send  you 
their  love  and  best  wishes.  They  are 
determined  to  make  this  their  finest 
year  and  God-willing,  it  shall  be." 
Signed,  President  Grant  S.  Thorn. 

We  also  received  the  following  note: 
"Seventy-seven  students  from  the  semi- 
nary at  Marsh  Valley  High  School  at 
Arimo,  Idaho,  arose  at  three  o'clock  this 
morning  to  travel  to  Conference.  We 
bring  our  greetings  and  gratitude  for 
your  inspirational  leadership  and  our 
opportunity  in  being  here." 

We  welcome  you  students  and  all 
the  others  who  have  made  an  effort  to 


48 

Saturday,  April  8 

be  in  attendance  at  this  Conference.  I 
think  it  is  an  excellent  sign.  It  indi- 
cates that  the  future  of  the  Church 
and  the  nation  will  be  in  good  hands 
when  young  people  manifest  such 
interest. 

We  shall  begin  this  session  by  the 
Combined  Choirs  of  the  Logan  Institute 
of  Religion  and  the  Utah  State  Uni- 
versity singing,  "The  Creation,"  con- 
ducted by  James  L.  Bradley,  following 
which  the  invocation  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  Walter  E.  Trauffer,  presi- 
dent of  the  Swiss  Temple  at  Bern, 
Switzerland. 


The  opening  number  by  the  Com- 
bined Choirs  was,  "The  Creation." 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 
Walter  E.  Trauffer,  president  of  the 
Swiss  Temple. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  just  offered  by 
Elder  Walter  E.  Trauffer,  president  of 
the  Swiss  Temple  at  Bern,  Switzerland. 
The  Combined  Choirs  of  the  Logan 
Institute  of  Religion  and  the  Utah 
State  University  will  now  sing,  "I  Need 
Thee  Every  Hour."  After  the  singing, 
President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Twelve,  will  speak  to  us. 

Singing  by  the  Combined  Choirs,  "I 
Need  Thee  Every  Hour." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith, 
President  of  the  Twelve,  will  be  our 
first  speaker.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  trust  that  I  may  have  the  guidance  of 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  what  I  may 
say. 

I  will  commence  by  quoting  from  the 
nineteenth  chapter  of  Matthew: 

"The  Pharisees  also  came  unto  him, 
tempting  him,  and  saying  unto  him,  Is 
it  lawful  for  a  man  to  put  away  his 
wife  for  every  cause? 

"And  he  answered  and  said  unto 
them,  Have  ye  not  read,  that  he  which 
made  them  at  the  beginning  made  them 
male  and  female, 

"And  said,  For  this  cause  shall  a  man 
leave  father  and  mother,  and  shall 
cleave  to  his  wife:  and  they  twain  shall 
be  one  flesh? 

"Wherefore  they  are  no  more  twain, 
but  one  flesh.  What  therefore  God 
hath  joined  together,  let  not  man  put 
asunder."  (Matt.  19:3-6.) 

In  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  marriage  is  performed 
for  those  who  love  the  truth  and  desire 
to  belong  to  the  family  of  God,  as 
spoken  of  by  Paul  in  the  third  chapter 
of  Ephesians,  wherein  he  says: 

"For  this  cause  I  bow  my  knees  unto 
the  Father  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 


"Of  whom  the  whole  family  in 
heaven  and  earth  is  named."  (Eph. 
3:14-15.) 

Is  there  a  family  in  heaven  and  in 
earth?  Yes.  That  family  is  composed 
of  those  who  go  to  the  temple  of  the 
Lord  and  there  are  sealed  or  married 
for  time  and  for  all  eternity  according 
to  the  law  of  the  Lord.  Marriage  is  to 
be  eternal,  just  as  the  Lord  declares 
here  in  the  words  that  I  have  read, 
and  when  a  man  and  a  woman  go  to 
the  house  of  the  Lord  and  are  married 
for  time  and  for  all  eternity,  they  take 
upon  them  certain  covenants  that  they 
will  be  true  and  faithful  in  that  union. 
Those  covenants  are  made  in  the  pres- 
ence of  God  and  angels  at  the  altar  in 
the  temple  of  the  Lord.  How,  then,  can 
a  man  and  a  woman  with  the  love  of 
God  in  their  hearts  ever  turn  away  from 
the  solemn  covenants  that  they  make 
that  they  will  be  true  and  faithful  all 
the  days  of  their  lives  in  mortality  and 
that  their  faithfulness  will  continue 
after  death?  That  is  the  covenant  that 
they  make. 

Now,  the  Lord  says  further  in  an- 
swer to  the  Pharisees  query: 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


49 


"They  say  unto  him,  Why  did  Moses 
then  command  to  give  a  writing  of 
divorcement,  and  to  put  her  away? 

"He  saith  unto  them,  Moses  because 
of  the  hardness  of  your  hearts  suffered 
you  to  put  away  your  wives:  but  from 
the  beginning  it  was  not  so. 

"And  I  say  unto  you,  Whosoever  shall 
put  away  his  wife,  except  it  be  for 
fornication,  and  shall  marry  another, 
committeth  adultery:  and  whoso  mar- 
rieth  her  which  is  put  away  doth  com- 
mit adultery. 

"His  disciples  say  unto  him,  If  the 
case  of  the  man  be  so  with  his  wife,  it 
is  not  good  to  marry."  (Matt.  19:7-10.) 

Now,  evidently  they  did  not  get  the 
full  significance  of  the  Savior's  words. 

In  the  temple  of  the  Lord,  a  couple 
goes  to  be  sealed  or  married  for  time 
and  all  eternity.  Children  born  in  that 
union  will  be  the  children  of  that 
father  and  mother  not  only  in  mortal 
life  but  in  all  eternity,  and  they  be- 
come members  of  the  family  of  God 
in  heaven  and  on  earth,  as  spoken  of 
by  Paul,  and  that  family  order  should 
never  be  broken.  The  Lord  tried  to 
impress  this  upon  his  disciples  that  it 
was  only  because  of  the  hardness  of 
the  hearts  of  the  people,  because  they 
failed  to  keep  the  commandments  that 
the  Lord  had  given  them  that  Moses 
granted  the  putting  away  of  the 
wife.  Today  the  laws  are  different,  and 
sometimes  men  put  away  their  wives, 
and  sometimes  wives  put  away  their 
husbands,  but  a  marriage  in  the  temple 
of  the  Lord  should  be  one  that  should 
be  considered  sacred  and  holy,  never  to 
be  violated  in  any  way  whatsoever, 
because  it  means  that  those  who  enter 
into  such  a  covenant  shall  continue 
after  death  and  have  eternal  increase 
and  build  a  kingdom. 

Now,  if  there  is  ever  a  divorce  be- 
tween a  man  and  a  woman  married  in 
the  temple  for  time  and  all  eternity,  it 
is  because  they,  one  or  the  other  or 
both,  have  violated  the  covenants  that 
they  made  at  the  altar  of  the  Lord, 
otherwise  they  could  not  separate,  and 
the  Lord  never  intended  that  a  man  and 
a  woman  be  separated  in  death,  but 
that  this  marriage  was  one  for  eternity. 
There  was  no  separation  in  death,  and 
one  of  the  greatest  sins  that  can  be 


committed  is  for  a  man  and  a  woman 
to  separate  after  they  have  been  sealed 
in  the  house  of  the  Lord  to  become 
sons  and  daughters  of  God  and  mem- 
bers of  his  household,  and  to  have 
children  come  to  them,  sent  by  divine 
approval  to  be  in  that  household  not 
only  for  time  but  for  all  eternity. 

Now  how  in  the  world  a  man  and  a 
woman  can  go  to  the  temple  and  there 
be  sealed  and  make  their  solemn  cove- 
nants that  they  will  be  true  and  faithful 
before  the  Lord,  and  then  the  time 
comes  when  one  of  them  is  dissatisfied, 
maybe  both,  and  they  want  to  separate! 
They  are  committing  one  of  the  great 
crimes  that  could  be  committed,  if  they 
have  children.  Those  children  born  to 
them  have  a  right  to  the  companionship 
of  father  and  mother,  and  father  and 
mother  are  under  obligations  before 
their  Eternal  Father  to  be  true  to  each 
other  and  raise  those  children  in  light 
and  truth,  that  they  may  in  the  eterni- 
ties to  come,  be  one — a  family  within 
the  great  family  of  God,  as  spoken  of 
by  Paul. 

It  is  only  because  of  transgression  on 
the  part  of  the  wife  or  of  the  husband, 
or  perhaps  on  the  part  of  both,  when  a 
couple  has  been  married  in  the  temple 
of  the  Lord,  and  then  separate.  If  they 
were  true  to  their  covenants,  to  the 
obligations  that  they  have  made  to  each 
other  at  the  altar  in  the  house  of  the 
Lord,  they  could  not  separate,  and  if 
they  have  children,  they  are  not  only 
committing  a  crime  against  themselves, 
but  they  are  harming  those  children  and 
robbing  them  of  blessings  that  they 
were  born  entitled  to  receive. 

The  Savior  is  very  emphatic  in  his 
answer  to  these  Pharisees.  If  the  law 
was  true  in  the  days  of  the  Savior  and 
his  words  are  according  to  the  law,  then 
it  seems  to  me  that  that  law  has  not 
changed  in  the  Dispensation  of  the  Ful- 
ness of  Times.  It  is  only  through  sin 
and  the  transgression  of  the  law  that  a 
separation  can  come  that  would  divide 
father  and  mother  and  leave  the  chil- 
dren stranded  and  perhaps  to  be 
received  into  some  other  family  by  adop- 
tion, because  parents  have  lost  their 
faith  and  have  turned  away  from  the 
covenants  they  solemnly  made  before 
God  and  angels. 


50 

Saturday,  April  8 

How  members  of  the  Church  can 
do  such  a  thing  appears  to  me  as  a 
mystery.  It  can  be  explained,  of  course. 
They  do  it  because  they  have  lost  the 
spirit  of  the  gospel.  That  divorce  comes 
to  them  because  they  are  not  keeping 
the  commandments  that  the  Lord  gave 
to  them,  because  they  have  permitted 
darkness  to  enter  into  their  souls. 

I  think  I  can  say  here  safely  and 
truthfully  that  no  judge  in  this  world 
in  any  court  of  the  land  can  annul  a 
marriage  for  time  and  all  eternity.  He 
may  separate  the  husband  and  wife  by 
legal  enactments  so  far  as  this  world  is 
concerned,  but  he  cannot  separate  that 
husband  and  wife  so  far  as  the  next 
world  is  concerned.  Only  the  President 
of  the  Church  has  authority  to  cancel 
sealings,  and  when  the  man  and  his 
wife  lose  their  faith  and  go  to  the 
courts  and  get  a  separation,  and  then 
go  out  and  marry  according  to  the  laws 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

of  the  land,  they  are  not  culpable  be- 
fore the  law  of  the  land,  but  they  are 
before  the  kingdom  of  God  and  what  the 
Savior  says  here  in  this  revelation  is 
absolutely  true: 

".  .  .  Whosoever  shall  put  away  his 
wife,  except  it  be  for  fornication,  and 
shall  marry  another,  committeth  adul- 
tery: and  whoso  marrieth  her  which  is 
put  away  doth  commit  adultery."  (Matt. 
19:9.)  May  the  Lord  bless  you  all, 
I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith, 
President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
has  just  concluded  speaking.  Elder 
Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy  will  now  speak  to  us.  He 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  William  J. 
Critchlow,  Jr. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire 
today  to  speak  briefly  upon  what  I 
consider  to  be  the  greatest  event  that 
ever  occured  in  ancient  America — 
namely,  the  visitation  to  the  Nephites 
of  Jesus  Christ  after  his  resurrection  and 
the  great  work  that  he  did  among  them. 

Five  years  before  the  birth  of  Christ, 
Samuel  the  Lamanite  stood  upon  the 
walls  of  the  city  of  Zarahemla  and 
predicted  the  signs  of  the  birth  and  of 
the  death  of  Jesus.  He  asserted  that, 
at  his  birth,  there  should  be  a  day  and 
a  night  and  a  day  of  continuous  light 
as  if  it  were  one  day,  and  a  new  star 
should  appear.  Since  Jesus  Christ  is  the 
light  and  the  life  of  the  world,  no  more 
appropriate  sign  or  symbol  of  his  birth 
into  mortality  could  have  been  given. 
Neither  could  a  more  appropriate  sign 
of  his  death  have  been  given  than  three 
days  of  darkness,  the  light  and  the  life 
going  out  of  the  world. 
We  read  in  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
"And  it  came  to  pass  in  the  thirty  and 
fourth  year,  in  the  first  month,  on  the 
fourth  day  of  the  month,  there  arose  a 
great  storm,  such  an  one  as  never  had 
been  known  in  all  the  land. 


"And  there  was  also  a  great  and 
terrible  tempest;  and  there  was  terrible 
thunder,  insomuch  that  it  did  shake 
the  whole  earth  as  if  it  was  about  to 
divide  asunder.  .  .  . 

"And  behold,  the  rocks  were  rent  in 
twain;  they  were  broken  up  upon  the 
face  of  the  whole  earth,  .  .  . 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  there  was 
thick  darkness  upon  all  the  face  of  the 
land,  .  .  . 

"And  there  was  not  any  light  seen, 
neither  fire,  nor  glimmer,  neither  the 
sun,  nor  the  moon,  nor  the  stars,  for 
so  great  were  the  mists  of  darkness  which 
were  upon  the  face  of  the  land.  .  .  ." 
(3  Nephi  8:5  ff.) 

These  tremendous  convulsions  of  na- 
ture not  only  impressed  the  Nephites 
greatly  so  that  they  recorded  them  in 
their  history,  but  the  memory  of  them 
also  stayed  in  the  minds  of  the 
Lamanites,  or  the  American  Indians,  for 
fifteen  hundred  years.  Shortly  after  the 
discovery  of  America,  the  Catholic  mis- 
sionaries and  explorers  learned  that  the 
American  Indians  had  a  tradition  of  the 
great  convulsions  of  nature  that  took 
place  at  the  time  of  Christ's  death.  For 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


51 


example,  I  would  like  to  quote  from  a 
Lamanite,  an  Indian  prince  named 
Ixtlilxochitl,  who  lived  near  the  city  of 
Mexico  and  wrote  his  book  in  1600  A.D.: 
".  .  .  the  sun  and  the  moon  eclipsed, 
and  the  earth  trembled,  and  the  rocks 
broke,  and  many  other  things  and  signs 
took  place,  .  .  .  This  happened  ...  at 
the  same  time  when  Christ  our  Lord 
suffered,  and  they  say  it  happened  dur- 
ing the  first  days  of  the  year."  (Works  of 
Ixtlilxochitl,  cited  in  Milton  R.  Hunter 
and  Thomas  Stuart  Ferguson,  Ancient 
America  and  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
p.  190.) 

Ixtlilxochitl  could  not  have  received 
his  information  from  Catholic  Fathers, 
because  they  did  not  know  anything 
about  the  great  convulsions  of  nature  at 
the  time  of  Christ's  crucifixion.  Neither 
could  he  have  received  it  from  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  since  this  book  had  not  yet 
been  published.  He  claimed  to  have 
received  his  information  from  a  Laman- 
itish  source,  records  handed  down  from 
his  ancestors.  I  think  IxtlilxochitPs 
testimony,  coming  as  it  did  from  the 
American  Indians,  is  a  marvelous  evi- 
dence of  the  divinity  and  truthfulness 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

The  Nephites  readjusted  their  meas- 
urement of  time  at  the  time  of  the 
signs  of  Christ's  birth.  According  to 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  Christ  lived 
thirty-three  years  and  four  days,  being 
crucified  on  the  fourth  day  of  the  first 
month  of  their  year.  Remember, 
Ixtlilxochitl  gave  this  significant  state- 
ment, ".  .  .  they  say  it  happened  during 
the  first  days  of  the  year."  To  me  it  is 
remarkable  how  accurate  the  Lamanite 
record  was  and  how  aptly  it  sustains 
the  Book  of  Mormon. 

The  Nephite  historian  continued  his 
account  of  the  terrible  destruction  that 
took  place,  of  cities  and  people  during 
the  three  hours  of  storm,  and  the  dis- 
tressing condition  during  the  three  days 
of  darkness. 

Finally,  the  sun  arose.  The  earth  was 
again  filled  with  bright,  radiant  light. 
The  Nephites  in  the  city  of  Bountiful 
assembled  in  front  of  the  temple  to 
discuss  the  great  events  which  had  oc- 
curred during  the  past  few  days,  espe- 
cially the  signs  of  Christ's  crucifixion. 
As  they  conversed  one  with  another, 


they  heard  a  voice  coming  as  it  were 
out  of  heaven.  They  did  not  under- 
stand what  the  voice  said.  It  was  not 
a  shrill,  loud  voice,  yet  it  pierced  them 
to  the  very  heart.  They  gazed  upward 
into  the  heavens.  They  heard  the 
voice  the  second  time  and  the  third 
time,  and  then  they  recognized  it  to  be 
the  voice  of  God  the  Eternal  Father 
introducing  his  Son,  saying: 

"Behold  my  Beloved  Son,  in  whom  I 
am  well  pleased,  in  whom  I  have  glori- 
fied my  name—hear  ye  him."  (3  Nephi 
11:7.) 

As  they  continued  to  gaze  heaven- 
ward, they  saw  a  radiant,  beautiful 
Man,  dressed  in  a  white  robe,  descend- 
ing out  of  the  heavens  to  the  earth. 
He  came  down  and  stood  in  their  midst. 
Stretching  forth  his  hand,  he  said: 

"Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  whom  the 
prophets  testified  shall  come  into  the 
world  ....  and  I  have  drunk  out  of  that 
bitter  cup  which  the  Father  hath  given 
me,  and  have  glorified  the  Father  in 
taking  upon  me  the  sins  of  the  world." 
(Ibid.,  11:10-11.) 

The  people  fell  upon  their  knees  and 
worshipped  the  Savior.  He  commanded 
them  to  arise  and  come  forward  and 
for  each  of  them  to  thrust  his  hand 
into  the  spear  wound  in  his  side  and 
feel  the  prints  of  the  nails  in  his  hands 
and  feet,  ".  .  .  that  ye  may  know  that 
I  am  the  God  of  Israel,  and  the  God  of 
the  whole  earth,  and  have  been  slain 
for  the  sins  of  the  world."  (Ibid.,  11:14.) 
After  they  had  all  complied  with  this 
request,  again  the  Nephites  dropped  on 
their  knees  and  worshipped  him,  shout- 
ing: "Hosanna!  Blessed  be  the  name  of 
the  Most  High  Godl"  (Ibid.,  11:17.) 

Jesus  selected  twelve  men  and  or- 
dained them  to  the  priesthood.  He 
commanded  them  that  after  his  de- 
parture they  should  organize  his  Church. 

Day  after  day,  for  some  time,  Jesus 
appeared  to  the  Nephites.  He  taught 
them  the  same  gospel  that  he  had  taught 
to  the  Jews  in  Palestine  before  his 
crucifixion.  Also,  he  performed  many 
wonderful  miracles  among  the  people 
in  ancient  America.  He  healed  the 
sick,  raised  the  dead,  gave  sight  to  the 
blind,  made  the  lame  to  walk,  and  the 
deaf  to  hear.    Finally  Jesus  ascended 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


52 

Saturday,  April  8 

into  heaven  promising  the  people  that 
he  would  return  again. 

So  tremendous  was  the  effect  of  the 
visitation  of  the  Resurrected  Lord  to  the 
Nephites  that  for  two  hundred  years 
they  lived  in  perfect  righteousness,  no 
sin  being  among  them.  Finally  apos- 
tasy crept  in,  which  resulted  in  a  terrible 
war  between  the  Nephites  and  the 
Lamanites.  Eventually  the  Nephite 
nation  was  exterminated.  Yet  this  did 
not  exterminate  the  knowledge  that 
Christ  had  visited  ancient  America  and 
that  he  had  given  the  ancestors  of  the 
American  Indians  the  gospel.  For 
fifteen  hundred  years,  down  to  the  time 
of  the  Spanish  conquest,  the  Lamanites, 
or  the  American  Indians,  retained  that 
knowledge.  When  the  Catholic  Fathers 
first  came  to  the  New  World,  they  found 
among  the  various  Indian  tribes  the  tra- 
dition and  practices  of  many  of  the 
gospel  teachings.  The  religious  beliefs 
and  practices,  as  well  as  their  traditions, 
were  so  near  like  Christianity  that  many 
of  the  Catholic  Fathers  claimed  that  the 
Indians  had  Christianity  before  the 
coming  of  the  Europeans. 

From  Alaska  in  the  north  to  the  south 
end  of  South  America,  paramount  among 
all  the  traditions  held  by  the  Indians 
was  that  of  a  "Fair  God."  In  the  distant 
past  that  God  helped  create  the  world 
and  had  played  a  prominent  part  in  or- 
ganizing man.  He  had  loved  the  people 
so  much  that  he  had  come  down  to 
earth  and  dwelt  among  the  ancestors 
of  the  American  Indians.  He  had  given 
them  their  government,  their  writing, 
and  their  culture.  Above  all  he  had 
given  them  their  religious  beliefs  and 
practices,  being  their  great  high  priest. 

In  these  Indian  traditions  the  various 
aboriginal  tribes  gave  different  names 
to  this  white  and  bearded  God;  for 
example,  in  Mexico  Valley  he  was  called 
"Quetzalcoatl."  In  Yucatan  he  was 
known  as  "Itzamna"  and  later  he  was 
called  "Kukulcan."  The  most  prominent 
name  by  which  he  was  known  in  Peru 
was  "Viracocha."  Also,  he  was  called 
"Tonapa." 

Regardless  of  the  name  by  which  the 
white  and  bearded  God  was  known,  all 
of  the  Indian  traditions  were  similar. 
This  fact  indicates  that  they  came  from 
a  common  source.   All  of  the  principal 


Second  Day 

events  of  Christ's  life — namely,  his 
virgin  birth,  the  marvelous  missionary 
work  that  he  did,  the  numerous  miracles 
that  he  performed,  his  death,  his  intern- 
ment for  three  days,  his  resurrection,  his 
ascension  into  heaven,  his  final  promise 
that  he  would  come  again — were  found 
among  the  American  Indians  by  the 
Catholic  Fathers  when  they  first  visited 
various  parts  of  the  New  World. 

Father  Bernardo  de  Lizana,  "one  of 
the  most  devout  Catholic  priests  of  his 
time,"  did  missionary  work  among  the 
Itza-Maya  Indians  of  Yucatan  during 
the  first  century  of  the  Spanish  Conquest. 
In  his  History  of  Yucatan  and  Spiritual 
Conquest,  written  in  1633,  Lizana  main- 
tained that  "Chief  of  the  beneficient 
gods  [of  the  Itza-Mayas]  was  Itzamna." 
(Bernardo  de  Lizana,  cited  in  T.  A.  Wil- 
lard,  Kukulcan  the  Bearded  Conqueror 
p.  127.) 

Itzamna  was  a  God,  according  to  the 
Maya  sacred  books,  who  was  held  in 
the  highest  veneration,  being  regarded 
as  a  universal  deity.  Father  Lizana  in- 
forms us  that  the  Indians  claimed  that 
this  person  was  the  Son  of  the  Most 
High  God.  Itzamna  had  come  to  earth 
and  had  lived  among  the  ancestors  of 
the  Itza-Mayas.  He,  according  to  Lizana, 
had  taught  the  ancient  inhabitants  of 
Yucatan  to  read  and  write.  He  had 
given  them  their  government  and  was 
the  founder  of  their  religion.  To  quote 
the  words  of  the  Catholic  Padre  Lizana: 

"Itzamna  was  called  Kabul,  the  Skill- 
ful Hand,  with  which  he  performed 
miracles,  curing  the  sick  by  placing  his 
hands  on  them.  He  was  a  king,  a  priest, 
a  legislator,  a  ruler  of  benevolent  char- 
acter, like  Christ.  .  .  . 

"The  people  consulted  him  [Itzamna] 
about  things  that  happened  in  some 
remote  parts  and  he  told  them  of  present 
and  future  things. 

"At  the  same  time  they  carried  their 
dead  to  him  and  he  brought  them  back 
to  life,  and  the  sick  got  well,  and  for 
this  he  was  greatly  venerated  and  with 
reason,  for  if  it  were  true  that  he  was 
a  Son  of  God,  who  only  can  give  life 
to  the  dead,  and  health  to  the  sick,  since 
it  is  impossible  for  an  ordinary  man,  nor 
the  demons,  but  only  the  same  God 
[whom  the  Christians  worship],  who  is 
the  Lord  of  life  and  death. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


53 


"The  people  .  .  .  said  he  resurrected 
and  cured  them."  (Ibid.,  pp.  151-152.) 

In  speaking  of  the  death  of  Itzamna, 
Father  Lizana  wrote: 

"Thus  passed  Itzamna,  this  reputed 
Son  of  God — perhaps  our  Christian  God 
under  another  name,  and  the  Itzas  be- 
lieved that  his  soul  went  to  dwell  with 
his  Heavenly  Father."  (Ibid.,  pp.  148- 
149.) 

Ixtlilxochitl,  the  Lamanite  Mexican 
prince,  wrote  about  the  coming  of 
Quetzalcoatl  or  Jesus  Christ  to  the  valley 
of  Mexico.  He  put  the  date,  interesting- 
ly enough,  at  about  the  time  the  Savior 
lived  in  Palestine.    Ixtlilxochitl  wrote: 

"And  when  they"  [the  Toltecs,  we 
would  call  them  the  Nephites],  "were  in 
the  height  of  their  power,  there  arrived 
in  this  land  a  man  whom  they  called 
Quetzalcoatl  ...  on  account  of  his  great 
virtues,  considering  him  as  just,  saintly 
[holy],  and  good;  teaching  them  by 
deeds  and  words  the  path  of  virtue,  and 
forbidding  them  their  vices  and  sins, 
giving  laws  and  good  doctrine.  And  in 
order  to  refrain  them  from  their  pleasures 
and  dishonesties,  he  instituted  (estab- 
lished) fasting  for  them,  and  [he  was] 
the  first  who  worshipped  and  placed  the 
cross.  .  . ."  (Ixtlilxochitl,  op.  cit.,  p.  203.) 

Dr.  Herbert  Joseph  Spinden,  one  of 
the  world's  greatest  scholars  on  the 
American  Indians,  stated  that  Quetzal- 
coatl is, 

".  .  .  the  greatest  figure  in  the  ancient 
history  of  the  New  World,  with  a  code 
of  ethics  and  love  for  the  sciences  and 
the  arts."  (H.  J.  Spinden,  New  Light  on 
Quetzalcoatl,  Congreso  Internacional  de 
Americanistas,  Paris,  1947.) 

Hubert  Howe  Bancroft  wrote: 

".  .  .  Quetzalcoatl  was  a  white, 
bearded  man,  venerable,  just  and  holy, 
who  taught  by  precept  and  example  the 
paths  of  virtue.  .  .  .  His  teachings,  ac- 
cording to  traditions,  had  much  in  com- 
mon with  those  of  Christ  in  the  Old 
World."  (Hubert  Howe  Bancroft,  The 
Native  Races,  vol.  5,  p.  201.) 

Recently  Laurette  Sejourne,  a  famous 
Mexican  archaeologist,  wrote  an  excel- 
lent book  on  the  religious  beliefs  of 
ancient  Mexico.  Quetzalcoatl  plays  the 
leading  role  in  that  book.  The  writer 
states  that  at  approximately  the  time 
that  Jesus  Christ  rounded  the  Christian 


religion  and  culture  in  Palestine,  which 
has  continued  to  the  present  time,  a  man- 
God — a  super-religious  genius  named 
Quetzalcoatl — lived  in  ancient  America 
and  established  the  culture  of  the 
Indians.  He  gave  them  their  religion, 
portions  of  which  lasted  for  1,500  years, 
down  to  the  time  of  the  Spanish  con- 
quest. I  shall  quote  from  Laurette 
Sejourne. 

"His  [QuetzalcoatFs]  essential  role  as 
founder  of  ancient  American  culture 
was  never  questioned  by  any  of  the 
historians  of  the  sixteenth  and  seven- 
teenth centuries,  who  always  state  that, 
just  as  our  era  began  with  Christ,  so 
that  of  the  Aztecs  and  their  predecessors 
began — approximately  at  the  same  time 
— with  Quetzalcoatl. 

"Who,  then  was  this  primordial  fig- 
ure, and  why  was  his  memory  so 
ardently  worshipped?  As  we  know,  that 
during  his  reign  .  .  .  the  social  and  re- 
ligious views  that  dominated  Meso- 
America  for  over  1,500  years  were  crys- 
talized.  We  must  think  of  him  first  as 
an  organizer  without  equal. 

"But  whence  did  this  statesman  derive 
the  power  which  enabled  him  to 
amalgamate  and  transfigure  the  cultural 
elements  he  had  inherited  .  .  .  into  so 
dynamically  homogeneous  a  system?  He 
must  evidently  have  been  possessed  of 
some  quite  exceptional  interior  strength, 
and  all  that  is  known  about  him  cor- 
robates  this  view."  (Laurette  Sejourne, 
Burning  Water — Thought  and  Religion 
in  Ancient  Mexico,  pp.  25-26.) 

Certainly  the  only  person  who  has 
ever  lived  in  this  world  who  could  have 
crystalized  the  social  and  religious  views 
which  dominated  ancient  America  for 
over  fifteen  hundred  years  prior  to  the 
Spanish  conquest,  that  primordial  figure 
who  lived  and  did  his  unique  work  in  the 
New  World  about  the  time  that  Christ 
established  the  Christian  era  in  the 
Old  World,  that  religious  genius  who  is 
supreme  over  all  other  religious  teachers 
known,  could  have  been  none  other  than 
Jesus  the  Christ,  the  resurrected  Savior 
who  did  such  a  phenomenal  work  among 
the  Nephites.  Thus  the  resurrected 
Savior  and  Quetzalcoatl  and  the  other 
"Fair  Gods"  of  ancient  America  are 
identical. 

As  all  Latter-day  Saints  know,  the 


54 

Saturday,  April  8 

story  of  Christ's  work  in  ancient  Amer- 
ica is  beautifully  told  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  and  so  that  record  proclaims 
the  greatest  event  that  ever  occurred 
anciently  on  the  Western  Hemisphere. 

I  bear  testimony  that  through  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  I  know  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the 
world,  your  Savior,  and  my  Savior,  and 
as  he  claimed,  the  God  of  the  entire 
world.  I  know  that  he  died  for  your 
sins  and  my  sins.  I  witness  that  he 
broke  the  bands  of  death  and  brought 
about  a  universal  resurrection.  I  testify 
that  he  restored  his  gospel  in  this  dis- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

pensation,  and  if  you  and  I  will  keep 
his  commandments,  someday  we  shall 
return  into  his  presence  and  receive  a 
blessed  exaltation. 

May  God  bless  us  to  this  end,  I  humbly 
pray,  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spoken  to 
us.  Elder  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr., 
Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will  now 
address  us. 


ELDER  WILLIAM  J.  CRITCHLOW,  JR. 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


To  many  of  my  stake  conference  assign- 
ments I  am  air-borne.  Such  transporta- 
tion I  call  air  flights. 

Yesterday,  while  this  conference  was 
in  recess,  I  employed  a  flight  of  imagina- 
tion to  take  me  back  through  years  of 
time  and  miles  of  space  to  attend,  in 
fancy,  a  session  of  a  general  conference 
of  the  Church  held  in  Nauvoo,  on  April 
7,  1844,  exactly  117  years  ago  yesterday. 
The  proceedings  of  that  conference  made 
noteworthy  history.  This  conference  is 
history  in  the  making. 

I  made  this  fanciful  flight  to  see  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  whose  life  and 
personality  excite  my  deepest  veneration. 
I  wanted,  too,  to  see  the  temple  and  to 
locate  the  store  which  my  great-grand- 
mother helped  her  first  husband  estab- 
lish in  that  city.  My  traveling 
companions  were  books  which  revealed 
the  life  of  the  Prophet.  They  made 
excellent  guides  as  well  as  delightful 
companions. 

I  knew  in  1844  that  horses,  even 
oxen  and  wagons,  were  de  luxe  means 
of  transportation,  but  I  chose  for  my 
vehicle  of  transportation  on  this  imagi- 
nary flight  a  large  overstuffed  armchair. 
It  was  comfortable  and  roomy  enough 
to  allow  me  to  curl  up  in  it,  so  I  took 
a  refreshing  thirty  winks  or  more 
en  route. 

My  fanciful  flight  deposited  me,  pur- 
posefully, in  the  business  district  of 
Nauvoo  shortly  before  10:00  am.  Busi- 
ness places  were  closed:   April  7  was 


Sunday.  My  guides  could  not  find  the 
store  I  sought.  I  paused  to  read  an 
editorial  in  the  Times  and  Seasons  paper 
which  I  found  posted  in  the  area.  It 
reported  in  part:  ".  .  .  commercial  busi- 
ness has  been  somewhat  dull;  .  .  . 
preparations  are  being  made  by  the 
farmers  in  the  vicinity  for  the  culti- 
vation of  land;  .  .  . 

"And  a  word  we  would  say  to  the 
Saints  abroad,  which  is,  that  the  temple 
is  being  built  in  compliance  with  a 
special  commandment  of  God  not  to  a 
few  individuals,  but  to  all.  Therefore 
we  sincerely  hope  you  will  contribute 
of  your  means  as  liberally  as  your  cir- 
cumstances will  allow  .  .  .  ,"  etc. 
(Joseph  Smith,  History  of  the  Church, 
Vol.  6,  pp.  265-266.) 

From  a  distance,  I  observed  the  tem- 
ple. Its  walls  were  up;  windows  and 
roof  were  lacking.  I  wanted  to  make  a 
closer  inspection,  but  I  was  startled 
suddenly  by  a  burst  of  sound — voices  in 
song  and  in  such  volume  as  I  have  never 
heard  coming  from  any  meetinghouse. 
Surely,  I  thought,  the  walls  of  the  build- 
ing just  won't  stand  the  vibration.  In 
my  excitement  I  completely  forgot  the 
temple.  That  meetinghouse  I  just  had 
to  see.  It  could  not  be  far  away,  a 
block  or  so,  I  guessed,  as  I  hurried  in 
the  direction  of  the  sound.  The  distance 
lengthened  into  two,  three,  possibly  four 
blocks,  and  then  around  a  corner  I  came 
to  a  grove  of  trees,  and  there  in  a  clear- 
ing I  beheld  a  vast  multitude  of  people. 


ELDER  WILLIAM  J 

1  stood  amazed  and  out  of  breath.  Now 
it  was  I,  not  the  walls  that  vibrated. 
There  were  no  walls.  There  never 
were  any  walls.  The  great  canopy  of 
heaven  was  the  roof;  the  floor,  like  the 
foundation,  was  the  damp  terra  firma — 
it  had  rained  the  afternoon  before.  The 
place  had  good  ventilation — the  air  was 
fresh,  clean,  and  warm.  The  bright 
sun  was  an  excellent  heating  unit. 

My  guide  advised  me  that  this  was 
the  largest  assembly  of  people  in  the 
brief  history  of  Nauvoo.  Twenty  thou- 
sand, sitting  and  standing,  faced  an 
elevated  stand  upon  which  the  leaders 
were  seated.  From  my  position  in  the 
fringes  of  the  crowd,  I  could  neither 
see  nor  hear  well.  Sidney  Rigdon  was 
the  morning  speaker.  He  reviewed  the 
history  of  the  Church. 

At  noon  the  conference  recessed  until 

2  pm.  When  some  of  those  down  front 
left  for  lunch,  I  quickly  moved  into  a 
place  where  I  could  see  and  hear  the 
afternoon  speakers. 

My  guide  identified  the  first  speaker 
of  the  afternoon  as  the  Patriarch.  "You 
must  be  mistaken,"  I  thought.  "The 
patriarch  is  the  Prophet's  father  and  is 
a  much  older  man."  My  face  must  have 
turned  red  when  I  was  informed  that  the 
Prophet's  father  was  dead  and  that 
Hyrum  the  Prophet's  brother  was  the 
succeeding  Patriarch  and  the  speaker. 
For  nearly  an  hour  he  pleaded  with  the 
congregation  to  bring  ".  .  .  provisions, 
money,  boards,  planks,  and  anything 
that  is  good;  we  don't  want  any  more 
old  guns  or  watches"  he  said.  "I  give 
a  privilege  to  anyone  to  pay  a  cent  a 
week  ...  I  want  it  by  next  fall  to  buy 
nails  and  glass. 

"...  I  want  to  get  the  roof  on  this 
season  .  .  .  the  windows  in,  .  .  .  so  that 
we  may  dedicate  the  House  of  the  Lord 
by  this  time  next  year,  if  nothing  more 
than  one  room."  (Joseph  Smith,  History 
of  the  Church,  Vol.  6,  p.  298.) 

At  about  3  pm  the  Prophet  came 
upon  the  stand.  I  recognized  him  im- 
mediately. A  great  hush  came  over  the 
multitude  when  he  arose  to  speak.  He 
began  by  saying  he  would  preach  a 
sermon  for  his  friend  King  Follett  whose 
funeral,  held  a  few  days  before,  he  did 
not  attend  because  of  illness.  For  a  few 
moments  I  missed  his  words,  I  was  too 


CR1TCHLOW,  JR.  55 

engrossed  in  the  process  of  appraising 
and  admiring  his  personality. 

He  was  a  commanding  figure — tall 
and  well-proportioned. 

He  looked  strong.  My  guide  said  he 
weighed  212  pounds  at  the  time. 

His  shoulders  were  broad. 

His  head,  one  might  call,  a  very  ob- 
long oval. 

His  brow  was  high,  white,  and  smooth. 

His  cheeks  were  full,  free  from  hair, 
a  bit  pale,  I  thought,  but  clear. 

His  blue  eyes  were  his  most  remark- 
able feature,  not  very  large  nor  very 
deeply  set,  but  at  times  almost  veiled 
by  the  longest,  thickest,  light  lashes  you 
ever  saw  belonging  to  a  man. 

His  nose  was  prominent — straight  and 
thin. 

His  lips  were  thin,  too. 

His  wavy,  fine,  long,  light-brown  hair 
was  parted  faintly  on  the  left  and  was 
combed  back  on  top  in  a  high  roll  which 
made  it  full  in  back,  and  it  protruded  in 
full  waves  above,  behind,  and  in  front 
of  his  ears,  almost  obscuring  them. 

His  hands  were  small.* 

He  spoke  powerfully.  He  spoke  like 
a  Prophet.  He  looked  like  a  Prophet. 
He  was  a  Prophet. 

He  said — and  these  are  mere  excerpts 
from  his  sermon: 

"God  himself  was  once  as  we  are  now, 
and  is  an  exalted  man,  and  sits  en- 
throned in  yonder  heavens!  ...  If 
the  veil  were  rent  today,  and  the  great 
God  who  holds  this  world  in  its  orbit, 
and  who  upholds  all  worlds  and  all 
things  by  His  power,  was  to  make  him- 
self visible, — I  say,  if  you  were  to  see 
him  today,  you  would  see  him  like  a 
man  in  form — like  yourselves  in  all  the 
person,  image,  and  very  form  as  a  man; 
for  Adam  was  created  in  the  very  fash- 
ion, image  and  likeness  of  God,  and  re- 
ceived instruction  from,  and  walked, 
talked  and  conversed  with  Him,  as  one 
man  talks  and  communes  with  an- 
other. .  .  . 

".  .  .  it  is  the  first  principle  of  the 
Gospel  to  know  for  a  certainty  the 
character  of  God,  and  to  know  that  we 
may  converse  with  Him  as  one  man 

♦For  description  details  see: 

Joseph  Smith  the  Man  and  the  Seer— Hyrum  L. 

Andrus,  Chapters  1  &  2. 

life  of  Joseph  Smith— George  Q.  Cannon,  p.  321. 


56 

Saturday,  April  8 

converses  with  another,  and  that  He  was 
once  a  man  like  us;  yea,  that  God  him- 
self, the  Father  of  us  all,  dwelt  on  an 
earth,  the  same  as  Jesus  Christ  Himself 
did.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  Here,  then,  is  eternal  life — to 
know  the  only  wise  and  true  God;  and 
you  have  got  to  learn  how  to  be  gods 
yourselves,  and  to  be  kings  and  priests 
to  God,  the  same  as  all  gods  have  done 
before  you,  namely,  by  going  from  one 
small  degree  to  another,  and  from  a 
small  capacity  to  a  great  one;  from  grace 
to  grace,  from  exaltation  to  exaltation, 
until  you  attain  to  the  resurrection  of 
the  dead.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  What  did  Jesus  do?  Why,  I  do 
the  things  I  saw  my  Father  do  when 
worlds  came  rolling  into  existence.  My 
Father  worked  out  His  kingdom  with 
fear  and  trembling,  and  I  must  do  the 
same;  and  when  I  get  my  kingdom,  I 
shall  present  it  to  my  Father,  so  that  He 
may  obtain  kingdom  upon  kingdom, 
and  it  will  exalt  Him  in  glory.  He 
will  then  take  a  higher  exaltation,  and 
I  will  take  his  place,  and  thereby  become 
exalted  myself,  .  .  . 

"When  you  climb  up  a  ladder,  you 
must  begin  at  the  bottom,  and  ascend 
step  by  step,  until  you  arrive  at  the 
top;  and  so  it  is  with  the  principles  of 
the  gospel — you  must  begin  with  the 
first,  and  go  on  until  you  learn  all  the 
principles  of  exaltation.  But  it  will  be 
a  great  while  after  you  have  passed 
through  the  veil  before  you  will  have 
learned  them.  It  is  not  all  to  be  com- 
prehended in  this  world.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  learned  men  ...  say  that  God 
created  the  heavens  and  the  earth  out 
of  nothing.  .  . . 

"And  they  infer,  from  the  word  create, 
that  it  must  have  been  made  out  of 
nothing.  Now,  the  word  create  .  .  . 
does  not  mean  to  create  out  of  nothing; 
it  means  to  organize;  the  same  as  a  man 
would  organize  materials  and  build  a 
ship.  Hence  we  infer  that  God  had 
materials  to  organize  the  world  out  of 
chaos — chaotic  matter,  which  is  ele- 
ment. .  .  .  Element  had  an  existence 
from  the  time  He  had  .  .  .  they  may  be 
organized  and  re-organized,  but  not 
destroyed.  They  had  no  beginning,  and 
can  have  no  end.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  The  intelligence  of  spirits  had 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

no  beginning,  neither  will  it  have  an 
end.  .  .  .  There  never  was  a  time  when 
there  were  not  spirits;  for  they  are  co- 
equal [co-eternal]  with  our  Father  in 
heaven.  .  .  . 

"The  greatest  responsibility  in  this 
world  that  God  has  laid  upon  us  is  to 
seek  after  our  dead.  .  .  . 

"The  contention  in  heaven  was — 
Jesus  said  there  would  be  certain  souls 
that  would  not  be  saved;  and  the  devil 
said  he  would  save  them  all,  and  laid 
his  plans  before  the  grand  council,  who 
gave  their  vote  in  favor  of  Jesus  Christ. 
So  the  devil  rose  up  in  rebellion  against 
God,  and  was  cast  down,  with  all  who 
put  up  their  heads  for  him.  .  .  . 

"I  have  a  father,  brothers,  children, 
and  friends  who  have  gone  to  a  world 
of  spirits.  They  are  only  absent  for  a 
moment.  They  are  in  the  spirit,  and 
we  shall  soon  meet  again.  The  time 
will  soon  arrive  when  the  trumpet  shall 
sound.  When  we  depart,  we  shall  hail 
our  mothers,  fathers,  friends,  and  all 
whom  we  love,  who  have  fallen  asleep 
in  Jesus.  .  .  . 

.  .  .  The  baptism  of  water,  without 
the  baptism  of  fire  and  the  Holy  Ghost 
attending  it,  is  of  no  use;  they  are 
necessarily  and  inseparably  connected. 
An  individual  must  be  born  of  water 
and  the  Spirit  in  order  to  get  into  the 
kingdom  of  God.  .  .  . 

"Hear  it,  all  ye  ends  of  the  earth — 
all  ye  priests,  all  ye  sinners,  and  all 
men.  Repent!  repent!  Obey  the  gospel. 
Turn  to  God.  .  .  . 

"I  have  intended  my  remarks  for  all, 
both  rich  and  poor,  bond  and  free,  great 
and  small.  I  have  no  enmity  against 
any  man.  I  love  you  all;  but  I  hate 
some  of  your  deeds.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  You  don't  know  me;  you  never 
knew  my  heart.  No  man  knows  my 
history.  I  cannot  tell  it:  I  shall  never 
undertake  it.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  When  I  am  called  by  the  trump 
of  the  archangel  and  weighed  in  the 
balance,  you  will  all  know  me  then.  .  .  . 
God  bless  you  all.  Amen."  (History  of 
the  Church  6:302-317;  also  Teachings  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  compiled  by 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  pp.  342-362.) 

The  Prophet  spoke  for  3'/2  hours. 
My  guides  said  it  was  the  longest,  the 
most  powerful,  and  the  most  eloquent 


ELDER  WILLIAM  J.  CRITCHLOW,  ]R. 


57 


address  he  ever  gave,  and  he  gave  it 
without  notes  before  the  largest  crowd 
ever  assembled  in  Nauvoo.  They  also 
said  that  he  depended  upon  the  Holy 
Ghost  rather  than  upon  notes  to  guide 
him.  "I  do  not  have  time  to  prepare 
my  sermons,"  he  said. 

My  visit  to  Nauvoo,  April  7,  1844, 
was  as  I  said,  fanciful.  The  conference 
and  the  Prophet's  sermon  were  factual. 
Factual  too  was  the  visit  one  month 
later  of  one  Joseph  Quincy  son  of  the 
president  of  Harvard  and  himself  later 
mayor  of  Boston  who  in  his  appraisal  of 
the  Prophet  wrote: 

"It  is  by  no  means  improbable  that 
some  future  text-book,  for  the  use  of 
generations  yet  unborn,  will  contain  a 
question  something  like  this:  What 
historical  American  of  the  nineteenth 
century  has  exerted  the  most  powerful 
influence  upon  the  destinies  of  his  coun- 
trymen? And  it  is  by  no  means  im- 
possible that  the  answer  to  that  inter- 
rogatory may  be  thus  written:  Joseph 
Smith,  the  Mormon  Prophet.  And  the 
reply,  absurd  as  it  doubtless  seems  to 
most  men  now  living,  may  be  an  obvious 
commonplace  to  their  descendants  .  .  . 
The  man  who  established  a  religion  in 
this  age  of  free  debate,  who  was  and 
is  to-day  accepted  by  hundreds  of  thou- 
sands as  a  direct  emissary  from  the  Most 
High, — such  a  rare  human  being  is  not 
to  be  disposed  of  by  pelting  his  memory 
with  unsavory  epithets." 

"This  Joe  Smith,"  another  contempor- 
ary writer  on  the  New  York  Sun  said, 
"must  be  set  down  as  an  extraordinary 
character,  a  prophet-hero  as  Carlyle 
might  call  him.  He  is  one  of  the 
greatest  men  of  the  age  and  in  the  future 
will  rank  with  those  who  in  one  way 
or  another,  have  stamped  their  impres- 
sion strongly  on  society."  (Stories  about 
Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  by  Edwin  F. 
Parry,  pp.  13-14.) 

The  poet,  John  Greenleaf  Whittier 
wrote: 

"Once  in  the  world's  history  we  were 
to  have  a  Yankee  prophet,  and  we  have 
had  him  in  Joe  Smith.  For  good  or  evil, 
he  has  left  his  track  on  the  great  path- 
way of  life;  or,  to  use  the  words  of 
Home,  'knocked  out  for  himself  a  win- 
dow in  the  wall  of  the  nineteenth 
century,  whence  his  rude,  bold,  good- 


humored  face  will  peer  out  upon  the 
generations  to  Come.' "  (Howitts  Journal 
as  quoted  in  Millennial  Star,  October  1, 
1848,  p.  303.) 
His  associates  in  the  Church  said: 
"Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet  and  Seer 
of  the  Lord,  has  done  more,  save  Jesus 
only,  for  the  salvation  of  men  in  this 
world,  than  any  other  man  that  ever 
lived  in  it.  ,  .  .  He  lived  great,  and  he 
died  great  .  .  .  and  .  .  .  has  sealed  his 
mission  and  his  works  with  his  own 
blood;  .  .  ."  (D&C  135:3.) 
My  guide  bore  this  fervent  testimony: 
"Here  is  a  man  who  was  born  in  the 
stark  hills  of  Vermont;  who  was  reared 
in  the  backwoods  of  New  York;  who 
never  looked  inside  a  college  or  high 
school;  who  lived  in  six  states,  no  one 
of  which  would  own  him  during  his 
lifetime;  who  spent  months  in  the  vile 
prisons  of  the  period;  who,  even  when 
he  had  his  freedom,  was  hounded  like 
a  fugitive;  who  was  covered  once  with 
a  coat  of  tar  and  feathers,  and  left  for 
dead;  who,  with  his  following,  was 
driven  by  irate  neighbors  from  New 
York  to  Ohio,  from  Ohio  to  Missouri, 
and  from  Missouri  to  Illinois;  and  who, 
at  the  unripe  age  of  thirty-eight,  was 
shot  to  death  by  a  mob  with  painted 
faces. 

"Yet  this  man  became  mayor  of  the 
biggest  town  in  Illinois  and  the  state's 
most  prominent  citizen,  the  commander 
of  the  largest  body  of  trained  soldiers 
in  the  nation  outside  the  Federal  army, 
the  founder  of  cities  and  of  a  university, 
and  aspired  to  become  President  of  the 
United  States. 

"He  wrote  a  book  which  has  baffled 
the  literary  critics  for  a  hundred  years 
and  which  is  today  more  widely  read 
than  any  other  volume  save  the  Bible. 
On  the  threshold  of  an  organizing  age 
he  established  the  most  nearly  perfect 
social  mechanism  in  the  modern  world, 
and  developed  a  religious  philosophy 
that  challenges  anything  of  the  kind  in 
history,  for  completeness  and  cohesion. 
And  he  set  up  the  machinery  for  an 
economic  system  that  would  take  the 
brood  of  fears  out  of  the  heart  of  man — 
the  fear  of  want  through  sickness,  old 
age  unemployment,  and  poverty. 

"In  thirty  nations  are  men  and  women 
who  look  upon  him  as  a  greater  leader 


58 

Saturday,  April  8 

than  Moses  and  a  greater  prophet  than 
Isaiah.  . . ."  (Joseph  Smith  An  American 
Prophet  by  John  Henry  Evans,  fore- 
word.) 

To  these  may  I  add  my  testimony; 

I  believe — I  know  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
Prophet  of  God;  that  he  was  visited  by 
heavenly  messengers.  Among  them 
were  John  the  Baptist,  Peter,  James,  and 
John;  Moses,  Elias,  Elijah;  and  one 
Moroni  who  led  him  to  some  hidden 
golden  plates,  the  characters  on  which 
he  translated  and  thus  produced  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  I  also  believe — yes,  I 
know,  that  he  was  visited  by  the  Father 
and  by  the  Son  and  was  instructed  by 
the  Son.  This  testimony  I  bear  humbly 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr.,  As- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

sistant  to  the  Twelve.  The  combined 
Choirs  of  the  Utah  State  University 
and  the  congregation  will  now  join  in 
singing,  "How  Firm  A  Foundation,  Ye 
Saints  of  the  Lord,"  conducted  by 
James  L.  Bradley.  Elder  Alma  Sonne 
will  be  the  speaker  after  the  singing. 


The  Combined  Choirs  and  the  congre- 
gation joined  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"How  Firm  A  Foundation,  Ye  Saints  Of 
The  Lord." 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us.  He  will 
be  followed  by  Bishop  Thorpe  B. 
Isaacson. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  there  were 
power  and  inspiration  in  the  song  which 
we  have  just  sung.  I  appreciate  the  good 
singing  by  the  various  choirs  who  have 
appeared  during  this  conference.  I  am 
especially  grateful  for  the  singing  of  the 
choir  this  morning,  coming  as  it  did 
from  the  Logan  Institute  and  from  the 
Utah  State  University.  I  am  very  happy 
that  the  program  of  this  great  Church 
provides  for  the  development  of  choirs 
and  choral  groups. 

For  a  few  minutes  I  would  like  to  say 
something  about  our  missionary  effort 
in  the  world.  This  is  a  missionary 
Church,  and  when  one  becomes  a  mem- 
ber of  it,  he  is  also  a  missionary.  As 
an  introduction  I  want  to  read  from  the 
first  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, which  is  also  a  preface,  or  an 
introduction,  to  the  revelations  which 
follow. 

Said  the  Lord:  "For  verily  the  voice 
of  the  Lord  is  unto  all  men,  and  there 
is  none  to  escape;  and  there  is  no  eye 
that  shall  not  neither  ear  that  shall 
not  hear,  neither  heart  that  shall  not 
be  penetrated. 

"And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be 


unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my 
disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these 
last  days. 

"And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none 
shall  stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord  have 
commanded  them."  (D&C  1:2,  4-5.) 

The  Savior's  great  commission  to  his 
chosen  apostles  prior  to  his  ascension 
is  similar  in  all  respects  to  what  I  have 
read.  Said  he:  "Go  ye  into  all  the 
world,  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every 
creature. 

"He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized 
shall  be  saved;  but  he  that  believeth  not 
shall  be  damned."  (Mark  16:15-16.) 

Under  those  solemn  injunctions  God's 
work  has  gone  forward  in  the  earth. 
Neither  persecution,  ridicule,  nor  bigotry 
have  been  able  to  stop  it  from  pro- 
gressing. 

When  I  visited  the  Canadian  Mission 
a  few  months  ago,  I  was  told  that  Elder 
Orson  Hyde  opened  the  mission  in  1833. 
The  Church  was  then  three  years  old, 
after  having  been  organized  by  six  hum- 
ble men.  In  the  same  year  Joseph 
Smith  the  Prophet  and  Sidney  Rigdon 
strengthened  the  mission  by  their  per- 
sonal ministry.   Their  first  meeting  was 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


59 


held  in  a  store  building  in  the  province 
of  Ontario.  The  location  was  pointed 
out  to  us  as  we  visited  the  place.  It  is  a 
historical  landmark. 

The  result  of  that  effort  was  fourteen 
baptisms.  Three  years  later  in  1836 
Apostle  Parley  P.  Pratt  went  to  Toronto. 
He  had  with  him  a  letter  of  introduction 
to  John  Taylor  from  a  man  named 
Moses  Nickerson.  Taylor  was  a  minister 
in  the  Methodist  Church.  Such  letters 
are  now  called  referrals  and  are  very  ef- 
fective in  reaching  the  people.  John 
Taylor  and  a  group  of  businessmen  were 
holding  weekly  meetings  to  study  and 
search  for  the  truth,  using  the  Bible 
as  a  guide. 

Parley  P.  Pratt  explained  the  gospel 
to  those  men,  and  all  but  one  was  con- 
verted and  baptized.  In  the  same  year 
John  E.  Page  and  Orson  Hyde  returned 
and  converted  and  baptized  six  hundred. 
Thus  the  work  was  begun  in  the  great 
country  of  Canada. 

I  need  not  tell  you  what  has  happened 
since  those  early  days.  Similar  results 
were  obtained  in  Great  Britain,  in 
Scandinavia,  in  the  United  States,  and 
elsewhere.  In  the  year  1837,  seven  years 
after  the  Church  was  organized,  Heber 
C.  Kimball,  a  member  of  the  Twelve, 
was  set  apart  by  the  First  Presidency  of 
the  Church  to  preside  over  a  mission  to 
be  established  in  England.  Six  others, 
similarly  called  and  set  apart,  accom- 
panied him. 

They  were  poor,  these  men,  in  the 
things  of  the  world.  They  had  attended 
no  theological  seminary  in  preparation 
for  their  ministry,  and  they  were  not 
prominent  in  the  affairs  of  men.  The 
following  words  from  President  Heber 
C.  Kimball  illustrate  the  spirit  under 
which  they  did  their  work. 

Humbly  President  Kimball  said:  "The 
idea  of  such  a  mission  was  almost  more 
than  I  could  bear  up  under.  I  was 
almost  ready  to  sink  under  the  burden 
which  was  placed  upon  me.  However, 
all  these  considerations  did  not  deter 
me  from  the  path  of  duty.  The  mo- 
ment I  understood  the  will  of  my  Heav- 
enly Father  I  felt  a  determination  to  go 
at  all  hazards,  believing  that  he  would 
support  me  by  his  almighty  power, 
and  endow  me  with  every  qualification 
that  I  needed,  and  although  my  family 


was  dear  to  me,  and  I  should  have  to 
leave  them  almost  destitute,  I  felt  that 
the  cause  of  truth,  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  outweighed  every  other  con- 
sideraion."  (See  Heber  C.  Kimball's 
Journal,  Vol.  7,  pp.  10-11.) 

There,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  an 
example  of  magnificent  faith.  President 
Kimball  was  a  strong  man,  full  of  faith 
and  testimony.  He  was  not  easily  dis- 
mayed. Many  of  you  people  who  are 
now  listening  to  me  have  visited  the 
city  of  Preston  in  Lancashire,  England. 
Some  of  you  have  seen  the  River  Ribble, 
which  flows  through  the  city.  It  was  in 
that  river  that  nine  baptisms  were  per- 
formed, the  first  in  Europe  in  this  dis- 
pensation. The  baptismal  ceremony  was 
witnessed  by  a  crowd  of  between  seven 
and  nine  thousand  people.  Great 
Britain  was  being  proselyted  by  great 
and  good  men  who  were  humble  and 
God-fearing,  but  very  effective. 

In  1840  eight  members  of  the  Quorum 
of  the  Twelve  were  in  England  laying 
the  foundation  of  the  work  to  be  done 
in  that  prolific  field.  Among  them  were 
Brigham  Young,  Heber  C.  Kimball,  Wil- 
ford  Woodruff,  and  others.  Their 
success  was  phenomenal.  Nothing  like 
it  had  occurred  since  Peter,  the  apostle 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  delivered  his 
marvelous  sermon  on  the  day  of  Pente- 
cost. Congregations  of  religious  wor- 
shipers joined  the  Church  and  accepted 
the  restored  gospel.  Many  of  them  im- 
migrated to  America,  to  return  as  mis- 
sionaries to  their  native  lands  and  to 
make  contact  with  their  former  neigh- 
bors and  friends. 

Out  of  their  numbers  came  great 
leaders  like  John  Taylor,  George  Q. 
Cannon,  Charles  W.  Penrose,  Charles 
W.  Nibley,  and  many  others.  From 
Scotland  came  the  McKay  family,  whose 
faith  and  devotion  have  touched  the 
hearts  of  thousands  in  Zion  and  on 
foreign  shores.  The  missionary  system 
of  the  Church  has  not  failed,  nor  will 
it  fail.  There  is  no  commercial  or  pro- 
fessional aspect  connected  with  it.  It  is 
a  plan  of  proselyting  adopted  by  the 
Savior  when  he  sent  his  disciples  out 
into  the  world  to  teach  the  nations. 

Jesus  chose  humble  men  to  represent 
him  before  the  world.  The  same  caliber 
of  men  has  been  chosen  in  this  dispen- 


60 

Saturday,  April  8 

sation.  Humility  is  a  godly  virtue.  The 
missionary  realizes  that  he  is  engaged 
in  God's  work.  It  is  not  man's  work. 
His  best  qualifications  are  his  worthiness 
and  a  firm  and  unshakable  testimony. 

Someone  has  said,  "A  testimony  sup- 
ported by  two  or  more  witnesses  is  worth 
a  thousand  arguments."  I  know  that  is 
true.  Converts  are  a  source  of  strength  to 
the  Church.  On  June  6,  1840  the  first 
company  of  English  converts  left  their 
native  country  for  Nauvoo,  Illinois. 
Other  companies  followed  in  rapid  suc- 
cession. They  arrived  in  Nauvoo  at  a 
crucial  moment  when  the  forces  of  evil 
were  asserting  themselves  with  persistent 
and  relentless  fury.    God  is  blessing 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

the  missionary  endeavors  of  15,000  mis- 
sionaries laboring  at  home  and  abroad. 
He  will  continue  to  do  so. 

God's  work  will  triumph  in  the  earth, 
and  the  warning  is  going  forth  to  the 
nations.  May  the  Lord  inspire  us  to 
support  the  missionary  program  of  this 
great  Church,  I  humbly  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  addressed  us.  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric  of  the  Church,  will  now  speak 
to  us. 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


President  McKay,  President  Moyle, 
President  Smith,  my  beloved  brethren 
and  sisters:  I  am  very  grateful  for  the 
prayer  offered  by  Brother  Trauffer  at 
the  beginning  of  this  session:  He  is  a 
great  man  in  his  own  right,  deeply 
loved  by  the  people  in  far-off  Switzer- 
land and  by  everyone. 

When  one  faces  this  responsibility,  I 
assure  you  that  much  fasting  and  prayer 
precedes  this  assignment. 

I  address  my  remarks  today  to  the 
young  men  of  America  upon  whom  so 
much  responsibility  rests  for  all  that 
we  are  to  become  in  this  land  of 
freedom. 

Not  anything  of  value  is  without  price, 
neither  honor  nor  freedom,  neither  life 
nor  living,  neither  health  nor  wealth, 
nor  anything  which  is  counted  for  the 
blessing  of  man.  The  greater  the  worth, 
the  greater  the  price. 

I  cannot  talk  of  all  our  great  bless- 
ings within  the  limitation  of  my  allotted 
time.  Therefore,  in  considered  judg- 
ment, I  desire  to  speak  of  that  great 
blessing  of  freedom  which  is  so  often 
talked  about,  so  seldom  appraised,  and 
less  frequently  appreciated. 

George  Washington  knew  full  well 
the  price  of  freedom  and  felt  it  was 
his  duty  and  a  privilege  to  pay  that 
price. 

Abraham  Lincoln  was  well  acquainted 
with  the  price  of  freedom.  In  an 
editorial  in  the  Church  News,  February 


18,  1961,  it  was  said  of  him,  and  I  quote, 
"He  realized  that  Washington's  success 
lay  largely  in  the  divine  help  which 
came  to  him.  Lincoln  fully  believed 
that  God  guided  and  prospered  Wash- 
ington in  winning  freedom  for  the 
United  States."  With  this  feeling,  he 
spoke  to  his  friends  in  Springfield  before 
leaving  for  the  nation's  capitol,  and  said: 

"I  now  leave,  not  knowing  when  or 
whether  I  may  ever  return,  with  a  task 
before  me  greater  than  that  which  rested 
upon  Washington.  Without  the  assist- 
ance of  that  Divine  Being  who  ever 
attended  him  [Washington]  I  cannot 
succeed.  But  with  that  assistance,  I 
cannot  fail."  (John  Wesley  Hill,  Abra- 
ham Lincoln  Man  of  God,  p.  206.) 

Lincoln  was  convinced  that  "inde- 
pendence came  to  America  as  a  gift  of 
God,  and  that  George  Washington  was 
but  an  instrument  in  the  Divine  Hand 
to  bring  it  about." 

Yes,  Washington  and  Lincoln  were 
both  believers  in  God,  humble  servants 
who  prayed  constantly  and  received 
answers  to  their  prayers. 

I  quote  again  from  the  editorial  in  the 
Church  News: 

"No  man  who  has  been  an  instrument 
in  the  hands  of  God,  has  any  doubt 
about  it.  He  knows  it  and  feels  it  un- 
erringly. He  recognizes  the  divine  Spirit 
upon  him,  he  is  conscious  of  its  strength 
and  of  its  direction. 

"Lincoln  wrote  about  this  power  and 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


61 


said:  'I  have  had  so  many  evidences 
of  God's  direction,  so  many  instances 
when  I  have  been  controlled  by  some 
other  power  than  my  own  will,  that  I 
cannot  doubt  that  this  power  comes 
from  above.' 

"Washington  experienced  this  same 
power  and  controlling  force.  He  ad- 
mitted it.  He  prayed  about  it.  He 
gave  thanks  for  it.  .  . 

"But  Washington  having  had  the  ex- 
perience of  being  an  instrument  of 
heaven,  also  gave  us  warning:  'We 
ought  to  be  persuaded  that  the  propitious 
smiles  of  heaven  can  never  be  expected 
on  a  nation  that  disregards  the  eternal 
rules  of  order  and  right  which  heaven 
itself  has  ordained.' 

"That  is  for  now  and  for  the  future. 
Will  God's  hand  continue  to  be  over 
America"? 

During  the  Civil  War,  it  is  reported 
that  President  Abraham  Lincoln,  when 
anxious  over  the  battle  of  Gettysburg, 
stated: 

"I  went  to  my  room  one  day  and 
locked  the  door  and  got  down  on  my 
knees  before  Almighty  God  and  prayed 
to  Him  mightily  for  victory  at  Gettys- 
burg. I  told  Him  that  this  war  was  His 
and  our  cause  His  cause,  but  we  could 
not  stand  another  Fredericksburg  or 
Chancellorsville.  Then  and  there  I 
made  a  solemn  vow  to  Almighty  God 
that  if  He  would  stand  by  our  boys 
at  Gettysburg,  I  would  stand  by  Him, 
and  He  did  stand  by  our  boys  and  I 
will  stand  by  Him.  And  after  that, 
I  don't  know  how  it  was  and  I  cannot 
explain  it  but  soon  a  sweet  comfort 
crept  into  my  soul."  (Ibid.,  pp.  339- 
340.) 

What  would  our  lives  be  without  the 
freedoms  we  enjoy  in  America  and  else- 
where? But  who  can  make  reply  except 
he  who  has  been  denied  his  freedom! 
How  can  free  men  who  have  always 
been  free,  know  anything  about  the 
hopelessness  of  life  unacquainted  with 
freedom?  Someone  has  said: 

"Will  a  free  man  sell  his  liberty?  Will 
he  trifle  with  the  freedom  of  his  loved 
ones,  his  friends,  his  neighbors? — Will 
he  barter  the  privileges  and  opportuni- 
ties of  free  men  for  that  which  enslaves, 
downgrades  initiative,  destroys  incen- 
tive? No!   A  thousand  times,  No!  Yet 


it  is  feared  that  apathy  toward  our 
blessings  is  creeping  into  our  society  as 
a  malignant  monster." 

Let  all  who  enjoy  freedom  in  America, 
and  everywhere  else  on  earth,  remember 
that  the  price  of  freedom  comes  high. 
Freedom  has  never  been  free  to  anyone. 
If  there  are  those  who  believe  and  live 
as  though  freedom  were  free,  we  pray 
they  may  wake  up,  or  be  awakened,  be- 
fore it  is  too  late. 

To  be  specific:  in  America  we  have 
been  warned  that  there  is  a  movement 
attempting  to  set  up  new  national  or- 
ganizations, master-minded  by  those 
who  are  the  enemies  of  our  form  of 
government. 

Conferences  are  being  held,  meetings 
are  scheduled  in  an  attempt  to  plan  for 
youth  organizations  in  America;  youth 
organizations  which  will  be  secretly 
directed  by  men  trained  to  deceive. 
Young  men  of  America,  youth  of  Amer- 
ica— the  future  of  our  freedom,  the 
future  of  democracy  will  soon  be  in  your 
hands.  With  these  responsibilities  com- 
ing to  you,  we  pray  that  you  may  never 
be  victimized  by  the  propaganda  being 
master-minded  by  men  who  would  de- 
stroy you,  your  country,  and  all  freedom- 
loving  nations  everywhere. 

There  will  be  great  emphasis  upon 
American  youth  and  an  endeavor  made 
to  indoctrinate  you  with  those  ideologies 
that  would  enslave  and  destroy  you. 
Publications  will  be  printed,  aimed  di- 
rectly at  America's  young  people.  Young 
men  of  America,  we  pray  for  your 
strength  to  shun  these  secret  organiza- 
tions. Have  nothing  to  do  with  them. 
They  are  designed  and  organized  for 
the  purpose  of  weakening  America  from 
within.  Leaders  in  these  plans  spear- 
head mob  demonstrations  by  college 
students  and  others  against  honest  in- 
vestigations designed  to  expose  their 
treachery. 

Whenever  there  is  frustration  or  tur- 
moil within  any  segment  of  our  gov- 
ernment or  within  any  freedom-loving 
nation,  that  is  the  time  these  secret 
organizations  come  forward  in  full  force, 
inject  their  propaganda  most  successfully 
into  the  hearts  and  minds  of  youth  in 
particular.  J.  Edgar  Hoover,  Director  of 
the  Federal  Bureau  of  Investigation,  has 
warned  us,  saying,— "during  a  period 


62 

Saturday,  April  8 

of  international  tension,  America  cannot 
afford  to  relax  her  internal  defense 
even  momentarily." 

Information  has  already  been  pub- 
lished to  the  effect  that  an  alarming 
number  of  scheming  diplomatic  person- 
nel have  received  intelligence  assign- 
ments in  the  United  States.  Young  men 
of  America,  stand  up  strongly  against 
anything  and  everything  that  would  tend 
to  destroy  your  faith  in,  and  your  love 
for,  God  and  America.  Do  not  be  de- 
ceived. Your  first  impression  of  these 
unsuspected  enemies  may  be  favorable. 
That  is  their  hope  and  their  ambition. 
Refuse  to  listen  to  them;  refuse  to  at- 
tend their  meetings  which  are  not  open 
to  the  public.  Secret  meetings  under 
the  direction  of  these  trained  experts  in 
propaganda  may  well  be  the  beginning 
of  trouble  for  you  and  for  America  un- 
less you  refuse  to  take  part  in  such  care- 
fully veiled  subversive  activities. 

During  recent  years,  we  have  learned 
that  some  few  young  men  have  left  our 
country  and  deflected  to  the  enemies 
of  our  way  of  life.  Some  have  taken 
valuable  and  confidential  information  to 
the  enemy.  Others,  victimized  by  the 
cunning  of  these  propaganda  experts, 
have  awakened  too  late.  The  future 
is  dark  for  those  who  have  failed  their 
country,  regardless  of  their  motives  or 
reasons  for  deflection  or  of  giving  aid 
to  the  enemy.  Remember  that  deflection 
first  takes  place  in  the  mind  before  it  is 
expressed  in  actions.  This  is  the  real 
danger. 

We  have  been  told  that  the  greatest 
effort  will  be  concentrated  among  some 
of  our  institutions  of  learning.  There- 
fore, young  men  of  America,  teachers, 
leaders,  be  on  the  alert  for  these  new 
national  youth  organizations.  Some  of 
them  will,  according  to  the  plan,  be 
established  under  a  deceitful  guise  only 
to  entice  your  membership  and  attend- 
ance. Friendliness  will  be  extended  to 
you,  favors,  amusement,  all  with  the 
hope,  the  desire  to  deceive,  until  you 
may  become  slightly  indoctrinated,  and 
then  their  cunning  ways  will  become 
more  and  more  severe  until  you  have 
become  their  puppet. 

College  students  and  other  young 
people  should  be  strongly  advised 
against  joining  any  of  these  un-American 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

organizations.  In  American  history,  we 
have  known  of  leaders  who  gave  their 
lives  for  their  country,  patriots  who 
would  die  rather  than  betray  their  great 
land  of  liberty  and  freedom.  But  those 
great  blessings  for  which  our  leaders 
and  patriots  have  died  shall  not  long 
continue  with  us  unless  we  recognize 
our  responsibility  to  preserve  our  heritage 
and  pay  whatever  price  such  preserva- 
tion entails. 

Every  institution  of  higher  learning, 
including  our  high  schools,  should  make 
sure  there  are  no  youth  organizations 
or  activities  within  their  schools  not  ap- 
proved by  those  in  authority,  regardless 
of  the  attractive  name,  regardless  of  their 
surroundings,  regardless  of  their  first  ap- 
proach. Each  new  national  youth 
organization  should  be  thoroughly  in- 
vestigated and  fearlessly  exposed  when 
any  subversiveness  is  in  evidence. 

Colleges  should  be  encouraged  to  turn 
out  vigorous  men.  We  cannot  afford  to 
turn  out  college  men  who  shrink  from 
physical  effort  or  from  a  little  physical 
pain.  In  any  republic,  courage  is  a 
prime  necessity,  and  moral  courage  is 
needed. — The  courage  that  dares,  as  well 
as  the  courage  which  endures,  the  cour- 
age that  will  fight  valiantly  alike, 
against  the  foes  of  the  soul  and  the  foes 
of  the  spirit. 

It  was  never  intended  that  our  life  on 
earth  would  be  one  of  ease,  since  this 
life  is  but  an  interlude  between  two 
eternities. 

Is  there  a  need  in  American  schools  to 
teach  our  young  men  what  America 
should  really  mean  to  them?  And  what 
about  the  young  men  of  America  who 
are  not  in  our  schools?  Who  will  alert 
them?  Because  these  secret  youth  or- 
ganizations will  be  aimed  directly  at 
America's  young  people,  leaders  of  state 
and  city  governments  should  investigate 
every  new  youth  organization  seeking  to 
become  established  within  their  respec- 
tive jurisdictions.  Our  danger  is  greatest 
from  within.  If  America  is  to  be  de- 
stroyed, the  enemy  knows  full  well  it 
will  have  to  be  weakened  from  within. 

Young  men  of  America,  stand  by  the 
traditions  of  your  founding  fathers. 
Make  no  compromise  with  the  enemies 
of  your  freedom.  Stand  for  your  rights. 
Be  true  to  your  government.  Be  known 


BISHOP  THOR, 

and  remembered  for  your  patriotism, 
for  your  contribution  to  the  freedom 
with  which  you  would  bless  your  pos- 
terity as  you  have  been  blessed  by  those 
who  have  paid  the  price  and  gone  before. 

Young  men  of  Americal  Do  you  labor 
under  the  illusion  that  you  can  fight 
only  behind  a  gun  to  defend  your  price- 
less heritage?  Be  not  deceived  I  We  are 
at  war  right  now — not  a  shooting  war, 
but  a  contention  as  real  and  deadly  as 
any  shooting  war  ever  fought  in  the 
history  of  man.  Think  of  the  uncounted 
millions  already  enslaved  by  the  enemy 
without  the  horrors  of  a  shooting  war. 

Each  one  of  us  should  resolve  to  do 
everything  he  can  for  his  country,  which 
has  done  so  much  for  him;  assist  in 
helping  the  rest  of  the  world  realize 
what  freedom  is  and  to  keep  aglow  the 
fire  which  can  truly  light  the  world. 
You  share  in  the  noblest  privilege  of 
man,  which  is  to  make  God's  work  your 
own.  "Men  must  choose  to  be  governed 
by  God  or  they  condemn  themselves  to 
be  ruled  by  tyrants,"  was  the  way  Wil- 
liam Penn  pronounced  our  death 
sentence  as  a  nation  or  expressed  our 
hope  for  survival. 

Someone  has  said  there  is  enough 
wrong  now  among  our  citizens  to  indi- 
cate the  need  of  a  real  moral  and 
spiritual  reawakening  if  America's  great- 
ness is  to  do  the  efficient  job  which  it  is 
capable  of  doing  and  which  must  be 
done! 

Indeed,  the  ultimate  failure  or  glory, 
happiness  or  misery,  of  the  people  of 
America  is  dependent  upon  their  active 
support  of  its  freedoms  and  the  homage 
they  pay  to  the  God  of  this  land. 

Young  men  of  America,  God  is  your 
Father.  Jesus  Christ  is  your  beloved 
Savior,  the  Son  of  God.  God  lives. 
Jesus  Christ  is  your  elder  Brother.  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  is  on  the  earth. 
You  need  not  look  very  far  to  find  it. 
The  gospel  is  here.  The  truth  is  here. 
Today  there  is  a  living  prophet,  a 
prophet  who  lives  so  close  to  God  our 
Father  that  he  constantly  receives  in- 
spiration and  revelation.  Inspiration 
and  revelation  has  never  ceased  and 
will  never  cease  in  this  Church. 

Young  men  of  America,  I  bear  testi- 
mony to  you  that  President  David  O. 
McKay  is  the  Prophet  of  God,  repre- 


5  B.  ISAACSON  63 

senting  Jesus  Christ  here  in  the  earth.  I 
bear  you  this  testimony  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  The  combined  choirs  of  the 
Logan  Institute  and  the  Utah  State 
University  at  Logan  will  now  favor  us 
with  "Almighty  God  Of  Our  Fathers," 
conducted  by  James  L.  Bradley. 

We  are  always  inspired  with  the 
presence  of  young  people  from  our 
leading  institutions  of  learning.  I  am 
impressed  to  say  to  these  young  people, 
following  this  appeal  to  them,  that  we 
are  happy  to  have  you  here  with  us 
this  morning,  and  shall  greet  you  again 
this  afternoon.    As  the  poet  says: 

There  are  gains  for  all  our  losses, 
There  are  balms  for  all  our  pain: 
But  when  youth,  the  dream,  departs, 
It  takes  something  from  our  hearts 
And  it  never  comes  again. 

We  are  stronger,  and  are  better, 

Under  manhood's  sterner  reign: 
Still  we  feel  that  something  sweet 
Followed  youth,  with  flying  feet, 
And  will  never  come  again. 

Something  beautiful  is  vanished, 
And  we  sigh  for  it  in  vain: 

We  behold  it  everywhere, 

On  the  earth,  and  in  the  air, 
But  it  never  comes  again. 

Treasure  it,  students;  keep  your  youth 
by  living  in  the  spiritual  ideals  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Yes,  we  wel- 
come you,  and  now  will  listen  with 
appreciation  to  "Almighty  God  Of  Our 
Fathers."  The  benediction  will  be  of- 
fered by  Elder  Julius  B.  Papa,  president 
of  the  Gridley  Stake,  after  which  this 
Conference  will  be  adjourned  until  2 
o'clock  this  afternoon. 


Singing  by  the  Combined  Choirs  of 
the  Logan  Institute  of  Religion  and  the 
Utah  State  University,  "Almighty  God 
Of  Our  Fathers." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Julius  B.  Papa,  president  of  the 
Gridley  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


64  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  8  Second  Day 

SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  fourth  session  of  the  Conference 
was  held  at  2:00  p.m.  Saturday,  April  8, 
1961. 

The  music  for  this  session  was  fur- 
nished by  the  Combined  Choirs  of  the 
Logan  LDS  Institute  of  Religion  and 
the  Utah  State  University,  with  Pro- 
fessor Alma  L.  Dittmer  conducting. 
Frank  W.  Asper  was  at  the  organ 
console. 

Promptly  at  2  o'clock  President 
McKay  opened  the  meeting  by  making 
the  following  introductory  remarks: 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

For  the  information  of  those  who  are 
listening  in  over  the  radio,  or  looking  at 
television,  we  are  pleased  to  announce 
that  we  are  assembled  in  the  great 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt 
Lake  City  in  the  Fourth  Session  of  the 
One  Hundred  Thirty-First  Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

To  those  who  are  unable  to  gain 
admittance  to  the  Tabernacle,  we  are 
pleased  to  announce  that  overflow 
meetings  are  held  this  afternoon  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall, 
where  these  services  are  being  broad- 
cast by  television.  Also,  this  session  of 
the  Conference,  as  others,  have  been 
and  will  be  broadcast  as  a  public  service 
over  television  and  radio  stations 
throughout  the  West.  The  names  of 
the  stations  were  announced  just  prior 
to  the  beginning  of  this  meeting. 

We  are  pleased  to  note  the  attend- 
ance this  afternoon  of  special  guests, 
national,  state,  and  city  officials,  and 
especially  leaders  in  educational  cir- 
cles. We  welcome  also  our  stake,  ward, 
temple,  and  General  Auxiliary  officers 
of  the  Church. 

The  singing  this  afternoon,  as  this 
morning,  will  be  furnished  by  the  com- 
bined choirs  of  the  Logan  Institute  of 
Religion  and  the  Utah  State  University, 
conducted    by    Professor    Alma  L. 


Dittmer,  Dr.  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the 
organ.  We  shall  begin  these  services 
by  the  combined  choirs  singing,  "Great 
And  Glorious,"  The  invocation  will 
be  offered  by  Elder  E.  Albert  Rosenvall, 
recently  released  as  president  of  the 
New  Zealand  Temple. 


Singing  by  the  Combined  Choirs, 
"Great  And  Glorious." 

Elder  E.  Albert  Rosenvall,  recently  re- 
leased President  of  the  New  Zealand 
Temple,  offered  the  invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Eldei 
E.  Albert  Rosenvall,  president  of  the 
New  Zealand  Temple  since  its  dedica- 
tion, assisted  by  his  lovely  wife. 

The  combined  choirs  of  the  Logan 
Institute  of  Religion  and  the  Utah  State 
University  will  now  favor  us  with,  "Re- 
joice, The  Lord  Is  King."  After  the 
singing,  Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  will 
address  us. 


The  Combined  Choirs  sang  the  num- 
ber, "Rejoice,  The  Lord  Is  King." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  announced  this  morning  that  a 
group  of  Seminary  students  travelled 
since  three  o'clock  this  morning  in 
order  to  be  present  at  the  Conference. 
We  have  another  note  notifying  us  that 
a  group  of  67  young  Seminary  students 
and  members  of  the  Portland  (Oregon) 
Sixth  Ward,  Columbia  River  Stake,  to- 
gether with  advisors,  were  here  yester- 
day to  attend  Conference.  They  were 
also  in  attendance  this  morning,  and  are 
seated  in  the  north  balcony  this  after- 
noon. We  welcome  you.  They  bring 
"the  love  of  all  such  groups  organized 
in  our  area  of  the  Northwest." 

Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  will  be  our 
first  speaker  this  afternoon.  He  will  be 
followed  by  Patriarch  Eldred  G.  Smith. 


65 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brothers  and  sisters,  as  I  contemplate 
the  gospel  plan  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
for  his  children  as  given  in  the  revela- 
tions, I  am  convinced  that  no  sacrifice 
here  in  mortality  is  too  great  for  us  to 
make  to  attain  the  riches  and  glories  of 
eternal  life.  I  am  also  convinced  that 
by  righteous  living  and  devoted  service 
a  good  measure  of  this  happiness  and 
joy  can  be  experienced  here  and  now 
in  this  mortal  life. 

God  our  Father,  through  his  Beloved 
Son,  Jesus  Christ,  has  admonished: 

"For  all  who  will  have  a  blessing  at 
my  hands  shall  abide  the  law  which 
was  appointed  for  that  blessing,  and  the 
conditions  thereof,  as  were  instituted 
from  before  the  foundation  of  the 
world."  (D&C  132:5.) 

This  important  admonition  is  re- 
affirmed in  another  revelation  which  is 
clear  to  the  understanding  of  all  man- 
kind.   Said  the  Lord: 

"There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed 
in  heaven  before  the  foundations  of  this 
world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are 
predicated — 

"And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing 
from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law 
upon  which  it  is  predicated."  (Ibid., 
130:20-21.) 

These  pronouncements  of  principle 
and  admonition  of  the  Lord  are  funda- 
mental requirements  for  each  individual 
seeking  eternal  life  and  are  as  firm  and 
sure  as  the  pillars  of  heaven.  Every  law 
and  ordinance  of  the  gospel  is  to  be 
complied  with  to  attain  a  fulness  of 
God's  glory.  The  key  to  guide  us  safely 
to  the  celestial  kingdom  is  found  in 
this  instruction: 

"And  I  now  give  unto  you  a  com- 
mandment to  beware  concerning  your- 
selves, to  give  diligent  heed  to  the  words 
of  eternal  life. 

"For  you  shall  live  by  every  word 
that  proceedeth  forth  from  the  mouth 
of  God."  (Ibid.,  84:43-44.) 

Three  important  points  are  here 
enumerated:  1.  to  beware  concerning 
ourselves;  2.  to  give  diligent  heed  to  the 
words  of  eternal  life;  and  3.  to  live  by 


every  word  that  proceeds  forth  from 
the  mouth  of  God. 

The  Apostle  James  warned,  "For  who- 
soever shall  keep  the  whole  law,  and 
yet  offend  in  one  point,  he  is  guilty  of 
all."  (James  2:10.)  This  statement  ap- 
pears harsh  and  uncompromising,  but 
it  takes  full  obedience  to  the  whole 
gospel  plan  to  obtain  a  fulness  of  eternal 
lives  and  glory;  therefore,  to  break  one 
law  is  to  violate  the  whole  law  and 
makes  the  violator  guilty  of  all.  So 
often  we  are  deceived  by  thinking  that 
some  divine  laws  are  not  too  significant 
and  to  break  them  is  no  deterrent  to  a 
fulness  of  eternal  joy.  However,  the 
Lord  himself  has  declared: 

"But  no  man  is  possessor  of  all  things 
except  he  be  purified  and  cleansed  from 
all  sin. 

"And  if  ye  are  purfied  and  cleansed 
from  all  sin,  ye  shall  ask  whatsoever  you 
will  in  the  name  of  Jesus  and  it  shall 
be  done."  (Ibid.,  50:28-29.) 

Our  Omnipotent  God  is  possessor  of 
all  things:  the  universe  with  its  heights 
and  depths  and  all  his  works  of  crea- 
tion; all  truth,  knowledge,  power, 
wisdom,  and  every  quality  of  goodness, 
love,  and  charity.  Christ  inherited 
these  gifts  and  attributes  from  his  Father 
and  if,  as  the  scriptures  teach,  we  are 
joint-heirs  with  Christ,  we  are  then 
potentially  eligible  to  share  with  him 
the  full  joy  and  glory  of  these  creations, 
powers,  gifts,  and  blessings. 

Complete  obedience  and  faithfulness 
obtain  full  fellowship  in  the  household 
of  faith  and,  more  importantly,  merit 
joint-heirship  with  Christ  our  Lord  in 
all  that  the  Father  has  committed  unto 
him.  The  Apostle  Paul  stated  that  God 
appointed  his  Only  Begotten  Son  heir 
of  all  things  and  it  pleased  the  Father 
that  in  his  Son  should  a  fulness  dwell. 
John  the  Beloved  taught, 

"The  Father  loveth  the  Son,  and  hath 
given  all  things  into  his  hand,"  (John 
3:35.) 

— which  makes  Christ  the  heir  and 
joint-possessor  of  the  fulness  of  God's 
kingdoms,  works,  and  glory. 
Christ  prayed  to  the  Father  for  his 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


66 

Saturday,  April  8 

disciples  to  be  one  even  as  he  and  the 
Father  are  one.  This  quality  of  sharing, 
so  characteristic  of  the  Savior's  life,  offers 
to  us,  if  faithful  and  worthy,  every 
blessing  which  he  has  received  from 
his  Father. 

In  the  important  doctrinal  discourse 
known  as  the  "King  Follett  Sermon"  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  referring  to  those 
who  "shall  be  heirs  of  God  and  joint- 
heirs  with  Jesus  Christ,"  described  joint- 
heirship  as  inheriting  the  same  power, 
the  same  glory,  and  the  same  exaltation, 
until  an  individual  ascends  to  the  sta- 
tion of  Godhood  and  rises  to  the  throne 
of  eternal  power,  sharing  the  rewards 
with  all  the  faithful  who  have  preceded 
him.  A  joint-heir  legally  inherits  and 
shares  all  equities  and  gifts  in  equal 
interest  with  all  other  heirs.  Nothing 
is  excluded  nor  adjusted  in  value  be- 
tween the  participating  joint-heirs. 

The  Apostle  Paul  expressed  to  the 
Roman  saints  this  knowledge  and  hope: 

"For  as  many  as  are  led  by  the  Spirit 
of  God,  they  are  the  sons  of  God.  .  .  . 

"The  Spirit  itself  beareth  witness  with 
our  spirit,  that  we  are  the  children  of 
God; 

"And  if  children,  then  heirs;  heirs  of 
God,  and  joint-heirs  with  Christ;  if  so 
be  that  we  suffer  with  him,  that  we  may 
be  also  glorified  together."  (Romans 
8:14,  16-18.) 

If  we  are  led  by  the  Spirit  of  God  in 
our  lives,  we  are  promised  heirship  with 
him  and  joint-heirship  with  Christ  our 
Lord  in  the  great  estate  of  God's  king- 
dom and  glory.  We  "suffer  with  Christ" 
as  we  sacrifice  the  things  of  the  world 
and  yield  complete  obedience  to  every 
truth,  principle,  and  ordinance  of  the 
gospel  plan.  Whatever  we  contribute 
in  honest  tithes  and  other  contributions 
along  with  unselfish  participation  and 
service  to  our  fellow  men  to  build  the 
kingdom  of  God  on  the  earth,  increases 
our  personal  joy  and  happiness  in  heir- 
ship with  Christ  the  Lord. 

We  learn  in  modern  scripture  that 
Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob  abided  by 
the  law  of  God  completely  and  did 
".  .  .  none  other  things  than  that  which 
they  were  commanded;  and  because  they 
did  none  other  things  than  that  which 
they  were  commanded,  they  have  entered 
into  their  exaltation,  according  to  the 


Second  Day 

promises,  and  sit  upon  thrones,  and 
are  not  angels  but  are  Gods."  (D&C 
132:37.)  They  have  inherited,  as  joint- 
heirs  with  Christ,  a  fulness  of  God's 
kingdom,  power,  and  glory. 

John  the  beloved  apostle  expressed 
this  meaningful  teaching  and  in- 
struction: 

"Behold,  what  manner  of  love  the 
Father  hath  bestowed  upon  us,  that 
we  should  be  called  the  sons  of  God: 
therefore  the  world  knoweth  us  not, 
because  it  knew  him  not. 

"Beloved,  now  are  we  the  sons  of 
God,  and  it  doth  not  yet  appear  what 
we  shall  be:  but  we  know  that  when 
he  shall  appear,  we  shall  be  like  him; 
for  we  shall  see  him  as  he  is. 

"And  every  man  that  hath  this  hope 
in  him  purifieth  himself,  even  as  he 
is  pure."  (1  John  3:1-3.) 

As  sons  and  daughters  of  God,  we 
are  required  to  purify  and  perfect  our- 
selves in  righteousness;  otherwise,  we 
cannot  be  with  him  nor  enjoy  eternal 
lives  and  glory  in  his  kingdom.  To 
become  like  God  we  must  possess  the 
powers  of  Godhood.  For  such  prepara- 
tion there  are  important  covenants, 
obligations,  and  ordinances  for  man- 
kind to  receive  beyond  the  require- 
ment of  baptism  and  the  laying  on  of 
hands  for  the  reception  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  Every  person  is  to  receive  his 
or  her  endowments  in  the  house  of  the 
Lord  which  permit  them,  if  faithful 
and  true,  to  pass  by  the  angels  who 
stand  as  sentinels  guarding  the  way  to 
eternal  glory  in  the  mansions  of  God. 
The  everlasting  covenant  of  marriage, 
ordained  of  God  for  man  and  woman, 
also  is  to  be  entered  into  and  the  mar- 
riage contract  sealed  eternally  by  the 
authority  of  the  Holy  Priesthood  of 
God.  Otherwise,  the  highest  degree  of 
the  celestial  kingdom  cannot  be  attained 
nor  Godhood  acquired,  which  exalted 
condition  assures  continuation  of  the 
lives  forever. 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  has 
said, 

"He  who  obtains  eternal  life  will 
become  a  son  of  God,  a  joint-heir  with 
Jesus  Christ,  and  the  Father  promises 
him  the  fullness  of  the  blessings  of  his 
kingdom.  Eternal  life  has  a  deeper 
meaning    than   immortality,   and  all 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


67 


those  who  receive  it  become  like  God. 
They  will  inherit  the  fulness  of  the 
Father's  kingdom,  all  things  will  be 
given  to  them  and  they  become  sons 
and  daughters  of  God."  (Man,  His 
Origin  and  Destiny,  pp.  530,  540.) 

God  has  said  of  his  sons,  "For  the 
power  is  in  them  wherein  they  are 
agents  unto  themselves."  (D&C  58:28.) 
Man,  as  a  child  of  God,  partakes  of  the 
divine  nature  of  his  Father  and  has 
within  him  the  power  to  upgrade  him- 
self and  by  perfecting  his  own  native 
endowments  become  like  his  eternal 
parent,  possessing  the  same  attributes 
and  qualities  in  their  perfection  as  the 
Father  and  the  Son. 

The  Father  has  promised  his  sons  who 
receive  the  Holy  Priesthood  and  faith- 
fully abide  by  the  conditions  of  its  oath 
and  covenant  that  they  are  to  share  in 
all  that  which  the  Father  hath.  The 
Father  possesses  kingdoms,  thrones, 
principalities,  powers,  dominions,  and 
exaltations.  These  the  faithful  will 
receive  of  him  as  heirs  of  God  and 
joint-heirs  with  Jesus  Christ.  This 
promise — and  the  Lord  will  not  fail — 
is  a  challenging  encouragement  for  all 
to  do  his  will.  It  is  natural  for  a  father 
to  share  his  estate  with  his  children. 
Our  Heavenly  Father  is  no  exception. 
He  does  so  with  a  binding  covenant 
with  his  faithful  sons.  Listen  to  the 
words  of  this  promise: 

"Therefore,  all  those  who  receive  the 
priesthood,  receive  this  oath  and  cove- 
nant of  my  Father,  which  he  cannot 
break,  neither  can  it  be  moved."  (Ibid., 
84:40.) 

The  number  sharing  these  great  and 
choice  blessings  will  be  limited.  It  is 
unfortunate  that  so  few  will  worthily 
prepare  themselves  and  enter  the  strait 
gate  and  faithfully  follow  the  narrow 
way  to  the  end  to  earn  the  promising 
reward  of  eternal  life  and  its  joint-heir- 
ship  with  Christ  of  all  that  God  the 
Father  possesses. 

It  seems  strange,  but  people  generally 
fail  to  understand  these  gospel  teach- 
ings and,  living  as  they  do  in  this  mortal 
world,  are  prone  to  think  and  act  in 
terms  of  mortal  existence,  which  they 
only  partially  understand.  As  a  result, 
they  fail  to  project  themselves  into  that 
eternal  state  of  life  after  the  death  of 


the  mortal  body  and  to  envision  their 
true  place  in  it  according  to  their  present 
manner  of  living  here  in  mortality.  If 
somehow  we  could  view  with  clarity 
the  impressive  picture  of  the  life  here- 
after resulting  from  obeying  every  gos- 
pel principle  and  ordinance  while  here, 
perhaps  we  would  plan  our  lives  in  mor- 
tality differently  and  see  to  it  that  all 
our  daily  actions  are  motivated  by  truth 
and  righteousness  and  good  works.  Life 
then  would  have  sincere  purpose  and 
would  earn  rewarding  values  for  the 
soul. 

President  Wilford  Woodruff  made 
this  significant  observation: 

"Now  I  sometimes  ask  myself  the 
question,  Do  we  comprehend  these 
things?  Do  we  comprehend  that  if  we 
abide  the  laws  of  the  priesthood  we 
shall  become  heirs  of  God  and  joint- 
heirs  with  Jesus  Christ?  I  realize  that 
our  eyes  have  not  seen,  our  ears  have 
not  heard,  neither  hath  it  entered  into 
our  hearts  to  conceive  the  glory  that 
is  in  store  for  the  faithful."  (Discourses 
of  Wilford  Woodruff,  p.  80.) 

In  the  vision  given  to  Joseph  Smith 
and  Sidney  Rigdon  concerning  the  de- 
grees of  glory,  the  Lord  specified  the 
qualifications  of  those  who  belong  to 
the  Church  of  the  Firstborn  and  then 
said: 

"They  are  they  into  whose  hands  the 
Father  has  given  all  things — 

"They  are  they  who  are  priests  and 
kings,  who  have  received  of  his  fulness, 
and  of  his  glory;  .  .  . 

"Wherefore,  as  it  is  written,  they  are 
gods,  even  the  sons  of  God — 

"Wherefore,  all  things  are  theirs, 
whether  life  or  death,  or  things  present, 
or  things  to  come,  all  are  theirs  and 
they  are  Christ's,  and  Christ  is  God's." 
(D&C  76:55-56,  58-59.) 

Personally,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
I  am  humbly  grateful  for  the  privilege 
and  blessing  of  being  a  candidate  for 
joint-heirship  with  Christ,  my  Lord, 
in  all  that  the  Father  has  promised. 
My  heart  is  full  of  love  and  gratitude 
for  the  Savior  and  for  the  sacrifice  of 
his  life  on  the  cross  to  redeem  mankind 
from  the  fall  and  the  offer  he  has  given 
all  mankind  for  salvation  and  exaltation 
as  joint-heirs  with  him  in  the  kingdom 
of  our  God. 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  8 

I  pray  that  God  will  bless  us  all,  my 
brothers  and  sisters,  with  the  courage 
and  the  faith  to  live  every  standard  and 
obey  every  law  and  every  ordinance  of 
the  gospel  to  merit  joint-heirship  with 
Christ  our  Lord  in  all  things.  This  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


Second  Day 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley,  a  member 
of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve.  Elder 
Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to  the 
Church,  will  now  address  us,  and  he 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  S.  Dilworth 
Young  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


I  pray  that  I  will  have  the  guidance  of 
the  Lord  while  I  fulfil  this  assignment. 
We  have  heard  considerable  in  these 
conference  sessions  (as  we  usually  do  in 
all  of  our  meetings  throughout  the 
Church)  about  the  principles  and  acts 
and  teachings  which  label  us  as  Latter- 
day  Saints  and  note  to  us  the  require- 
ments to  be  a  Latter-day  Saint.  Have 
you  ever  thought  to  ask  yourself,  "Are 
you  a  Latter-day  Saint  because  of  the 
things  you  do  not  do  or  because  of  the 
things  you  do?"  What  makes  a  Latter- 
day  Saint? 

Jesus  was  asked  on  one  occasion, 
"Master,  which  is  the  great  command- 
ment in  the  law? 

"Jesus  said  unto  him,  Thou  shalt  love 
the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart, 
and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all 
thy  mind. 

"This  is  the  first  and  great  command- 
ment. 

"And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou 
shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as  thyself. 

"On  these  two  commandments  hang 
all  the  law  and  the  prophets."  (Matt. 
22:36-40.) 

These  two  commandments  are  in- 
separable. It  is  impossible  to  fulfil  the 
first  without  fulfilling  the  second.  We 
cannot  love  our  Father  in  heaven  with- 
out loving  our  fellow  men  and  loving 
our  neighbor. 

Latter-day  Saints  should  be  known  by 
the  things  they  do,  the  first  of  which 
is  to  keep  these  two  commandments. 

A  most  important  quality  in  love  is 
forgiveness.  If  we  truly  love  our  neigh- 
bor, we  will  always  be  willing  and 
ready  to  forgive.  Jesus  Christ  placed 
great  importance  on  forgiveness.  Teach- 
ing the  multitude,  he  gave  what  is 
known  as  the  Lord's  prayer  in  which 


he  said:  ".  .  .  forgive  us  our  debts,  as 
we  forgive  our  debtors."  Then  he  added: 
"For  if  ye  forgive  men  their  trespasses, 
your  Heavenly  Father  will  also  forgive 
you: 

"But  if  ye  forgive  not  men  their  tres- 
passes, neither  will  your  Father  forgive 
your  trespasses."  (Ibid.,  6:12,  14-15.) 

Again  the  Lord  said,  "Judge  not  that 
ye  be  not  judged. 

"For  with  what  judgment  ye  judge,  ye 
shall  be  judged  "  (Ibid.,  7:1-2.) 

How  can  we  as  mortals  fully  judge 
another?  We  do  not  know  how  much 
knowledge  another  has  received,  for  he 
receives  knowledge  through  the  Spirit. 
We  cannot  measure  that  which  another 
receives  through  the  Spirit. 

Elder  Matthew  Cowley  once  said: 

"We  ought  to  say  in  our  hearts  let 
God  judge  between  me  and  thee,  but  as 
for  me  I  will  forgive."  That  means  to 
say  in  our  hearts,  not  just  lip  service. 
We  must  be  willing  to  forgive  and  for- 
get. Most  of  us  have  a  natural  ability 
to  forget,  especially  the  things  we  are 
supposed  to  remember.  Most  of  us  work 
diligently  to  increase  our  power  to  re- 
member. However,  in  forgiving,  we 
should  increase  or  attempt  to  increase 
and  work  diligently  to  increase  our 
power  to  forget. 

Peter  asked  Jesus:  "Lord,  how  oft 
shall  my  brother  sin  against  me,  and  I 
forgive  him?  till  seven  times? 

"Jesus  saith  unto  him,  I  say  not  unto 
thee,  Until  seven  times:  but,  until 
seventy  times  seven."  (Matt.  18:21-22.) 

The  Lord  also  said: 

"But  I  say  unto  you,  Love  your  ene- 
mies, bless  them  that  curse  you,  do  good 
to  them  that  hate  you,  and  pray  for  them 
which  despitefully  use  you,  and  perse- 
cute you."  (Ibid.,  5:44.) 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 


When  the  adulteress  was  brought  be- 
fore Christ  to  be  stoned,  according  to  the 
law,  he  said: 

"He  that  is  without  sin  among  you,  let 
him  first  cast  a  stone  at  her." 

They  all  then  slipped  away,  leaving 
the  woman  alone  with  Jesus.  No  ac- 
cusers left,  Jesus  said,  "Neither  do  I 
condemn  thee:  go,  and  sin  no  more." 
Thus  giving  the  woman  the  opportunity 
to  repent  and  be  forgiven.  (John  8:6-11.) 

Then,  finally,  in  his  agony  on  the 
cross,  showing  the  supreme  example  of 
forgiveness,  he  cried  out  to  his  Father 
in  heaven:  "Father,  forgive  them; 
for  they  know  not  what  they  do." 
(Luke  23:34.) 

Could  you  be  as  forgiving? 

Again  in  our  day  the  Lord  reminds 
us  that  we  are  required  to  forgive  one 
another. 

".  .  .  verily  I  say  unto  you,  I,  the 
Lord,  forgive  sins  unto  those  who  con- 
fess their  sins  before  me  and  ask  forgive- 
ness, who  have  not  sinned  unto 
death.  .  .  . 

"Wherefore,  I  say  unto  you,  that  ye 
ought  to  forgive  one  another;  for  he 
that  forgiveth  not  his  brother  his  tres- 
passes standeth  condemned  before  the 
Lord;  for  there  remaineth  in  him  the 
greater  sin. 

"I,  the  Lord,  will  forgive  whom  I  will 
forgive,  but  of  you  it  is  required  to  for- 
give all  men. 

"And  ye  ought  to  say  in  your  hearts — 
let  God  judge  between  me  and  thee, 
and  reward  thee  according  to  thy  deeds." 
(D&C  64:7,  9-11.) 

When  you  have  ill  feelings  toward 
anyone,  you  have  an  uneasiness  in  his 
presence.  You  will  go  out  of  your  way 
to  avoid  him.  You  become  to  a  degree, 
mentally  ill.  A  contentious  spirit  pre- 
vails within  you.  John  stated  it  this 
way: 

"But  he  that  hateth  his  brother  is  in 


darkness,  and  walketh  in  darkness,  and 
knoweth  not  whither  he  goeth,  because 
that  darkness  hath  blinded  his  eyes." 
(1  John  2:11.) 

Often  we  think  of  forgiveness  as  a 
form  of  charity.  We  forget  that  the 
benefits  extend  both  ways.  It  is  as  bene- 
ficial to  forgive  as  to  be  forgiven.  This 
is  not  a  formula  but  a  spirit  which  can 
bring  out  the  best  in  people  and  illumi- 
nate every  moment  of  living.  It  is  one 
of  the  happy  paradoxes  of  human  be- 
havior that  the  readier  we  are  to  forgive 
the  less  we  are  called  on  to  forgive. 
Forgiveness  does  not  undo  what  has  al- 
ready been  done.  It  enables  us  to  accept 
what  has  been  done  and  go  on  from 
there. 

It  is  only  through  forgiveness  of  our 
mistakes  that  we  gain  the  freedom  to 
learn  from  experience,  but  forgiving  our 
shortcomings  does  not  mean  denying 
that  they  exist.  On  the  contrary,  it 
means  facing  them  honestly,  realistical- 
ly. Forgiving  brings  a  peace  of  mind,  a 
pleasant  assuredness,  and  freedom. 

One  who  hates  is  his  own  tormentor. 
Unless  you  forgive,  you  cannot  love. 
Without  love,  life  has  little  or  no  mean- 
ing. Love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself,  for- 
give and  forget,  let  no  ill  feelings  exist 
between  you  and  any  member  of  your 
family  or  a  neighbor  or  friend  or  any- 
one, for  we  are  all  God's  children — sons 
and  daughters  of  our  Father  in  heaven 
and  brothers  and  sisters  in  the  spirit  of 
our  Savior  Jesus  Christ.  That  we  may 
enjoy  that  sweet  spirit  of  peace  which 
the  Lord  giveth,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to 
the  Church,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  We 
shall  now  hear  from  Elder  S.  Dilworth 
Young  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy. 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  heart  rejoiced  yesterday  morning 
when  the  President  of  the  Church  talked 
about  the  response  of  youth  to  the 
various  programs  which  we  provide  for 
them.  I  should  like  to  refer  to  one  of 
these  programs,  make  a  practical  refer- 


ence to  it,  and  illustrate  its  application 
to  what  Brother  Smith  just  referred  to— 
the  matter  of  the  second  commandment, 
loving  thy  neighbor. 

I  remember  the  first  time  I  ever  went 
away  from  home — I  mean  to  work.  I 


70 

Saturday,  April  8 

was  thrown  into  the  company  of  a  crowd 
of  men  and  boys  my  own  age.  If  one 
didn't  smoke  with  this  particular  crowd 
one  was  considered  to  be  a  sissy.  During 
the  daytime  hours  while  we  worked, 
the  air  was  filled  with  blasphemous 
remarks  concerning  the  Father  and  the 
Son  and  derogatory  remarks  concern- 
ing one's  own  personal  ancestry  and 
the  illegitimacy  of  it.  On  weekends 
they  got  drunk.  They  didn't  just  drink, 
they  got  drunk.  If  one  didn't  get  drunk 
Saturday  night  something  was  wrong 
with  him,  and  they  pointed  it  out  to 
him  Monday  morning.  While  they  were 
in  the  process  of  this  weekend  orgy  they 
sought  out,  of  course,  the  young  ladies 
of  like  bent  and  then  spent  the  rest  of 
the  week  bragging  about  their  conquests. 

I  did  not  find,  nor  did  I  look  for,  as 
far  as  that  goes,  any  young  man  in 
that  community  who  had  the  same  feel- 
ings as  I  did.  I  could  not  bring  myself 
to  associate  with  the  situation,  and  I 
spent  my  free  time  on  the  weekends  in 
reading.  I  have  always  been  grateful 
that  my  family,  who  believe  that  read- 
ing is  a  great  gift  to  cultivate,  taught  me 
early  to  read  and  kept  me  encouraged 
in  its  practice. 

I  was  shy.  That  may  sound  peculiar 
to  some  of  you  folk  who  know  me,  but 
I  really  was;  and  I  was  frightened  of 
people.  I  was  scared  of  the  boys  and 
men  with  whom  I  worked,  and  I  was 
more  frightened  to  go  into  crowds  where 
I  was  not  known.  Consequently  I  did 
not  seek  out  the  ward  in  the  town  in 
which  I  was  working. 

But,  on  the  other  hand,  neither  did 
the  bishop  seek  me  out.  Nobody  sought 
me  out.  I  doubt  if  they  knew  I  was 
there,  yet  they  must  have  done  because 
the  man  for  whom  I  worked  was  quite 
prominent,  and  he  must  have  told  some- 
body in  the  town  that  he  had  a  young 
squirt  from  Salt  Lake  City  building 
muscle  at  his  expense. 

I  have  often  thought  of  what  would 
have  happened  to  me  during  the  month 
or  two  that  I  was  out  that  first  summer 
if  some  good  man  had  come  over  and 
said,  "Look,  Dil,  next  Sunday  morning 
we  are  having  a  meeting.  Why  don't 
you  come  over  to  it?"  I  likely  would 
have  gone,  but  I  confess  to  you  that  I 
didn't  quite  have  the  nerve  to  overcome 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

my  fears  and  do  it  voluntarily. 

Adolescent  youths  are  shy — most  of 
them.  Adolescent  youths  are  frightened 
of  other  people — most  of  them.  To 
overcome  that  shyness  and  fear,  and 
not  mistake  it  for  stubbornness,  is  the 
genius  of  men  who  work  with  boys. 

Now  it  is  different.  We  have  a  dif- 
ferent program,  and  it  is  about  that 
program  I  wish  to  speak.  You  know  we 
have  a  system  whereby  if  you  notify  a 
committee  of  the  twelve  composed  of 
Brother  Spencer  W.  Kimball  and  Brother 
Mark  E.  Petersen,  machinery  is  set  in 
motion  to  see  that  things  I  have  just 
described  don't  happen.  May  I  read 
from  some  of  the  reports  which  have 
come  into  the  office  of  these  two  good 
brethren  on  matters  concerning  children. 

This  is  about  Mary.  The  names,  of 
course,  are  fictitious.  "After  several  at- 
tempts to  make  contact  with  Mary  by 
my  counselors,  my  wife  and  I  visited  her 
Friday.  Then  we  brought  her  to  MIA 
last  Tuesday.  We  have  assigned  a 
Gleaner  Girl  to  visit  her  and  to  take 
her  to  stake  M  Man  and  Gleaner  func- 
tions, and  we  have  assigned  the  ward 
teachers  to  call.  We  will  keep  our  eye 
on  her." 

Now  if  you  had  a  daughter  away 
from  home,  wouldn't  you  feel  relieved 
if  you  knew  that  the  bishop  and  his  wife 
saw  to  it  that  that  girl  had  a  chance 
to  get  into  the  ward?  You  would  sleep 
at  night,  wouldn't  you? 

Here  is  another  one.  "Beth  is  a  good 
girl  and  has  been  active  in  the  ward  in 
our  town.  She  has  never  been  away 
from  home,  nor  ever  lived  in  a  large 
city.  We  hope  she  can  be  given  a 
welcome  in  her  ward  in  that  city."  And 
the  bishop  writes — that  is,  the  bishop  of 
the  ward  to  which  she  went:  "We  have 
called  on  Beth  several  times.  She  is 
attending  regularly.  We  haven't  yet 
given  her  a  position.  We  shall  very 
soon.  We  shall  keep  our  eye  on  her 
and  check  with  her  regularly."  This 
word  was  conveyed  to  the  girl's  mother. 
She  sleeps  well  at  night,  also. 

Here  is  another  one  about  Don,  "a 
student  who  has  been  active  here  in  our 
ward.  He  is  attending  his  freshman 
year  at  Freshwater.  We  hope  he  will 
keep  his  values."  And  the  second  coun- 
selor at  Freshwater  writes,  "I  have  per- 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 


71 


sonally  visited  Don  at  Freshwater,  and 
invited  him  to  our  meetings.  I  will 
make  it  a  point  to  see  that  he  is  visited 
by  the  campus  ward  teachers,  and  is 
invited  to  the  Deseret  Club  functions. 
We  shall  follow  through."  And  it  gives 
one  a  comfortable  feeling  inside, 
doesn't  it? 

Another  one.  "Henry  is  the  only 
member  of  his  family  who  has  joined 
the  Church.  He  was  active  for  a  time, 
but  has  not  done  much  in  the  past  two 
years."  He  went  to  a  certain  city  for 
employment.  And  the  second  coun- 
selor in  that  city  writes:  "I  have  been 
trying  to  reach  this  young  man.  Condi- 
tions are  not  of  the  best  at  his  boarding- 
house.  We  have  ward  teachers  and  the 
senior  Aaronic  Priesthood  committee 
calling  at  his  house  to  influence  him 
to  enter  our  activities.  We'll  keep  try- 
ing."   That's  it — "we'll  keep  trying." 

Here's  one  from  our  own  school.  "Ann 
has  gone  to  BYU,  and  has  taught  in 
Primary."  And  the  bishop  of  a  ward 
at  BYU  writes:  "As  always,  a  fine  and 
rewarding  member  of  our  ward,"  and 
a  fine  rewarding  feeling  comes  to  father 
and  mother  when  they  hear  that  all 
is  well. 

Another  one.  "Kenneth  Woods."  No 
note  about  him — just  his  name  and  ad- 
dress— and  then  this  report  was  sent  to 
the  home  ward  bishop.  "We  have  tried 
to  reach  him  but  without  success.  We 
know  where  he  lives;  we  have  talked 
to  his  roommates;  but  either  he  hides 
himself  when  we  call  or  he  is  too  busy 
as  to  be  rarely  home.  We  have  called 
and  asked  for  him  over  the  phone  with- 
out success.  We  have  left  word  for  him 
to  call,  but  he  never  does.  The  elders' 
president  has  gone  there  several  times 
and  told  his  roommates  his  purpose,  but 
the  boy  has  not  yet  responded.  We  do 
know  that  he  has  been  out  of  work 
several  weeks  and  that  he  is  going  to 
school,  and  that  he  seems  to  spend  his 
weekends  skiing.  We  shall  continue 
to  try." 

Once  in  a  while  a  stake  president 
knows  a  situation,  and  he  reports  for 
the  bishop.  "The  bishop  reported,"  said 
he,  "that  she  is  living  with  three  other 
girls,  and  the  environment  is  not  the 
best.  Apparently  she  fell  in  love  with 
a  young  man  who  was  active  but  does 


not  now  live  our  standards.  This  is 
also  quite  a  problem  for  her.  She  is 
definite  in  her  desire  to  be  married  in 
the  temple.  The  bishop  reports  that 
Ann  shows  a  desire  to  be  active  in  the 
Church,  and  the  YWMIA  officers  have 
been  alerted  to  follow  through.  Because 
of  our  interest  I  am  sure  the  bishop 
will  take  a  personal  interest  in  Ann  and 
her  progress,  and  I  am  sure,"  he  writes 
to  Brother  Petersen,  "that  the  action  on 
your  part  may  have  been  the  means  of 
preventing  a  tragedy,  because  when  we 
found  her  she  was  very  low.  The  bishop's 
personal  interview  gave  her  an  oppor- 
tunity to  clear  her  feelings,  and  opened 
the  way  for  further  activity.  The  bishop 
will  also  do  what  he  can  with  other 
girls  in  this  group." 

A  boy,  secretary  to  a  priests'  quorum, 
is  going  to  school.  Notice  of  his  move 
was  sent  in  with  a  note  that  he  is  a  good 
boy  and  no  one  needs  to  worry  about 
him.  The  first  reply  which  came  in 
from  the  bishop:  "Have  been  unsuccess- 
ful in  contacting  this  young  man  at  the 
college  dorm.  Will  write  him  and  try 
to  make  an  appointment."  A  second 
reply  came  later.  "John  was  happy  for 
my  visit.  Said  he  didn't  know  which 
ward  he  should  attend,  so  he  didn't 
attend  at  all.  Said  he  would  be  at 
priesthood  meeting  next  Sunday  morn- 
ing, and  is  anxious  to  become  an  elder." 

A  recent  convert — a  young  woman — 
left  home  and  crossed  three  states  to 
attend  school.  Unable  to  find  any  of 
our  people,  she  attended  the  local  Com- 
munity Church.  And  then  the  nearest 
branch  president  received  a  card  from 
the  committee.  He  had  to  drive  forty 
miles  to  meet  her,  and  he  reported: 
"She  is  in  good  spirits.  She  has  a 
testimony.  The  nearest  chapel  is  nearly 
forty  miles,  and  she  has  no  transporta- 
tion. I  have  made  arrangements  for 
her  to  have  transportation.  She  will  be 
an  asset  to  our  branch."  Suppose  he 
had  never  learned  that  that  girl  was 
anywhere  near,  and  she  was  left  to 
herself  and  on  her  own? 

Now  this  program  is  quite  simple  to 
apply.  I  shall  repeat  briefly  the  rules. 
If  a  daughter  or  a  son  is  going  away 
for  a  period,  either  to  work  or  to  school, 
all  the  parents  need  do  is  to  notify  the 
ward  bishop  of  the  fact.   It  is  also  in- 


72  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  8  Second  Day 

cumbent  upon  the  priesthood  leaders,  the  Now,  I  pray  the  Lord  will  bless  us 

young  women  officers,  as  well  as  the  in  our  effort  to  do  this  work.   My  testi- 

ward  teachers,  to  be  alert,  to  notify  mony   is   that  the   President  of  the 

the  bishop  when  such  a  person  leaves.  Church — President  McKay — is  a  prophet. 

Promptly  the  bishop  will  send  to  the  I  support  him  as  such  with  all  my  heart, 

committee  a  card  upon  which  he  states  and  of  course,  with  that  goes  the  fact 

the  essential  facts  and  gives  the  new  long  since  attested,  that  Joseph  Smith 

address.    It  is  quite  essential  that  the  was  likewise  a  prophet,  saw  the  Father 

new  address  be  on  the  card.  and  the  Son,  who  commissioned  him  to 

The  committee  then  processes  the  bring    forth   the   work    of   this  last 

card,  discovers  to  what  ward  and  stake  dispensation. 

the  young  person  has  moved,  and  noti-  I  ask  blessings  upon  us  all  in  the 

fies  the  bishop  of  the  ward  or  the  presi-  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen, 
dent  of  the  branch  that  that  young 

person  is  there,  and  asks  him  to  see  that  President  David  O.  McKay: 
proper  integration  takes  place.  After 

that,  contacts  are  made,  the  youth  is  The  Combined  Choirs  and  the  con- 
integrated,  and  the  report  is  made  back  gregation  will  now  sing,  Come,  Come, 
before  the  file  is  closed.  And  if  the  Ye  Saints,"  conducted  by  Alma  L. 
youth  is  not  integrated,  the  file  is  kept  pittmer.  After  the  singing  Elder 
open  until  he  either  is  reached  or  re-  E1Ray  L-  Christiansen  will  speak  to  us. 

turns  home.   

It  seems  to  me  that  we  can  do  no  The  Combined  Choirs  and  the  con- 
better  work  for  those  of  our  young  folk  gregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn, 
who  are  away  from  home,  than  to  take  "Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints,"  conducted  by 
this  simple  expedient  of  picking  up  a  Alma  L.  Dittmer. 
telephone  and  calling  the  bishop,  and 

asking   him   to   watch   out    for   our  president  David  q.  McKay: 
children.    No  greater  work  could  be 

done  to  safeguard  them.   You  would  be  We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  EIRay 

surprised  at  the  great  number  who  are  L.  Christiansen,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve, 

immediately  brought  into  activity  in  the  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Richard  L. 

wards  to  which  they  go.  Evans  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

In  the  song  just  concluded,  were  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth.    He  saw  that 

words,  "Why  should  we  seek  to  earn  a  after  the  flood  had  depopulated  the 

great  reward,   if  we  now   shun   the  earth,  because  of  wickedness,  it  was  after 

fight?"  a  time  inhabited  again.    But  then  he 

I  believe,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  saw  that  after  a  time,  men  were  again 

is  the  feeling  I  have  had  as  I  have  forgetting    God    and    were  rebelling 

thought  of  what  I  might  say.  What  I  against  the  truth.  He  saw  the  Savior  in 

shall  say  is  given  in  the  spirit  of  en-  the  Meridian  of  Time  lifted  up  on  the 

couragement  and  commendation  for  the  cross  as  a  sacrifice  for  mankind  and  as 

young,  for  the  rest  of  us,  and  for  all  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  When 

mankind.  Enoch  saw  all  this,  he  wept.    And  he 

According  to  the  writings  of  Moses,  beheld  also  that  Jesus  wept.  And  Enoch 
the  history  of  the  world  from  the  be-  asked  of  him,  "How  is  it  that  thou 
ginning  to  the  end  was  revealed  to  canst  weep,  seeing  thou  art  holy,  and 
Enoch  when  Enoch  was  permitted  to  from  all  eternity  to  all  eternity?" 
look  upon  the  world  and  see  it  as  it  was  "The  Lord  said  to  Enoch:  Behold 
in  the  days  of  Noah,  as  it  was  in  the  these  thy  brethren;  they  are  the  work- 
Meridian  of  Time,  and  as  it  would  be  manship  of  mine  own  hands,  and  I 
in  the  last  days,  or  the  days  in  which  gave  unto  them  their  knowledge,  in  the 
we  now  live.    Enoch  beheld  all  of  the  day  I  created  them;  and  in  the  Garden 


ELDER  ELRAY  L. 

of  Eden,  gave  I  unto  man  his  agency." 
(Moses  7:29,  32.) 

The  Lord  went  on  to  explain  to 
Enoch  by  saying  that  he  and  the  hosts 
of  heaven  wept  because  of  the  rebellion 
of  mankind,  nevertheless,  Enoch  was 
assured  that  the  Lord  would  come  again 
in  the  last  days,  and  that  before  his 
coming  he  would  cause  righteousness 
and  truth  to  sweep  the  earth  as 
with  a  flood,  to  gather  out  his  elect 
from  the  four  corners  of  the  earth. 
Surely  that  has  been  going  on  ever  since 
the  Church  came  into  being. 

"And  the  Lord  showed  Enoch  all 
things,  even  unto  the  end  of  the  world; 
and  he  saw  the  day  of  the  righteous, 
the  hour  of  their  redemption;  and  re- 
ceived a  fulness  of  joy."  {ibid.,  7:67.) 

By  his  supreme  knowledge  of  the 
nature  of  man,  both  individually  and 
collectively,  the  Lord  sees  the  future  of 
men  and  of  nations,  but  even  so  the 
agency  of  man  is  not  nullified.  Indi- 
viduals and  free  nations  may  choose 
wickedness  and  bring  upon  themselves 
sorrow  and  ultimate  destruction,  or  they 
may  choose  righteousness  and  be  pre- 
served in  peace. 

In  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  we  are 
told  that  in  our  day  there  are  many 
who  are  "blinded  by  the  craftiness  of 
men  who  lie  in  wait  to  deceive."  (D&C 
123:12.)  An  example  of  this  is  seen  in 
the  relentless  efforts  that  are  made  to 
have  as  many  as  possible  become  ad- 
dicted to  the  use  of  products  which 
not  only  degrade  and  weaken  but  which 
also  impair  the  health  and  undermine 
the  moral  and  spiritual  qualities  of 
those  who  are  misled. 

As  expressed  in  the  second  epistle  of 
Peter: 

"And  through  covetousness  shall  they 
with  feigned  words  make  merchandise  of 
you."  (2  Peter  2:3.) 

An  example  of  how  certain  individuals 
intend  to  make  merchandise  out  of  us, 
if  they  can,  is  seen  in  the  following 
statement  taken  from  the  Brewers 
Journal.    I  quote: 

"Now  I  am  going  to  talk  about  how 
to  sell  more  beer  and  I  mean  a  lot  more. 
It  is  easy  if  you  go  about  it  in  the  right 
way.  The  place  to  sell  more  beer  and 
ale  is  in  the  home.  Home  consumption, 
that  is  what  I  mean.   That  means  sell 


CHRISTIANSEN  73 

the  women.  Women  do  90%  of  the 
shopping.  Work  with  the  grocery  store 
and  the  super-market.  The  possibili- 
ties stagger  the  imagination.  Why,  you 
do  not  even  have  any  competition.  Pro- 
mote beer  as  a  beverage  at  mealtime. 
Beer  is  a  food.  Have  the  grocer  give 
the  woman  a  little  booklet  showing 
typical  family  meal  combinations  with 
beer,  delicious,  mouth-watering  com- 
binations and  how  to  serve."  End  of 
the  quotation.  "Beer  is  a  food."  How 
ridiculous! 

I  hope  that  we  will  be  aware  of 
these  scheming  ways  of  some.  I  hope 
that  we  will  not  be  gullible  to  this  or 
to  any  other  means  of  enticing  us  and 
pressuring  us  that  they  might  make 
merchandise  out  of  us. 

The  words  of  Nephi  should  put  us  on 
guard  against  such  things: 

"Cursed  is  he  that  putteth  his  trust 
in  man,  or  maketh  flesh  his  arm,  or 
shall  hearken  unto  the  precepts  of  men, 
save  their  precepts  shall  be  given  by 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost."  (2  Nephi 
28:31.) 

What  applies  to  us  individually,  ap- 
plies to  the  nation  as  a  whole. 

At  least  two  civilizations  have  previ- 
ously occupied  the  land  of  America. 
They  became  a  great  people,  a  truly 
great  people,  who,  like  the  people  of 
today,  found  favor  with  God,  but  it  is 
sad  to  read  that  both  of  these  civi- 
lizations brought  destruction  upon 
themselves  through  disobedience  and 
iniquity — actually  because  they  rebelled 
against  God.  The  Prophet  Mormon  tells 
us  that  the  cause  of  this  iniquity  and 
their  ultimate  downfall  came  because 
as  he  said:  "Satan  had  great  power,  unto 
the  stirring  up  of  the  people  to  do  all 
manner  of  iniquity,  and  to  the  puffing 
them  up  with  pride,  tempting  them  to 
seek  for  power,  and  authority,  and  riches, 
and  the  vain  things  of  the  world. 

"And  thus  Satan  did  lead  away  the 
hearts  of  the  people  to  do  all  manner 
of  iniquity;  therefore  they  had  enjoyed 
peace  but  a  few  years. 

"Now,  they  did  not  sin  ignorantly,  for 
they  knew  the  will  of  God  concerning 
them,  for  it  had  been  taught  unto  them, 
therefore  they  did  wilfully  rebel  against 
God."  (3  Nephi  6:15-16,  18.)  So  it  is 
with  us  today.  We,  too,  are  well-taught, 


74 

Saturday,  April  8 

but  many,  too  many  of  us,  in  the  Church 
and  out  of  the  Church,  are  led  away  by 
crafty  men  whom  the  Adversary  uses  as 
tools,  from  the  standards  and  the  ideals 
the  Lord  has  set  for  our  happiness  and 
our  security. 

Will  history  repeat  itself?  Shall  we 
in  this  beloved  land  again  lose  our 
freedom  because  of  disobedience?  No 
nation  rises  above  its  religion.  Presi- 
dent Calvin  Coolidge  once  wrote  these 
lines: 

"Our  government  rests  upon  religion. 
There  are  only  two  main  theories  of 
government  in  the  world,  the  one  rests 
on  righteousness  and  the  other  upon 
force.  A  government  of  a  country  never 
gets  ahead  of  the  religion  of  a  country." 

This  very  moment  finds  our  beloved 
nation  tense  and  wondering.  We  are 
concerned  about  the  increasing  power 
and  the  intentions  of  rulers  of  other 
nations,  and  well  we  should  be  con- 
cerned, because  Godless,  ruthless  men 
are  determined  by  their  satanic  plan  to 
subject  all  the  world  to  their  will,  and 
admittedly,  they  are  making  amazing 
progress. 

But  the  Lord  has  made  a  promise  to 
the  inhabitants  of  America  which  should 
give  us  hope  and  direction.  It  is  re- 
corded in  the  book  of  Ether,  the  second 
chapter,  wherein  the  promise  is  made 
that  this,  being  a  choice  land,  no 
nation  or  combination  of  nations  should 
take  its  people  into  bondage  or  captivity 
".  .  .  if  they  will  but  serve  the  God  of 
the  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ."  (Ether 
2:12.)  What  a  simple  way  to  preserve 
our  liberty  and  our  freedom  1 

In  a  revelation  in  our  day,  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the  Lord  has 
declared: 

"I,  the  Lord  God,  make  you  free, 
therefore  ye  are  free  indeed;  and  the  law 
also  maketh  you  free. 

"Nevertheless,  when  the  wicked  rule 
the  people  mourn.  .  .  . 

"And  I  give  unto  you  a  commandment, 
that  ye  shall  forsake  all  evil  and  cleave 
unto  all  good,  that  ye  shall  live  by  every 
word  which  proceedeth  forth  out  of  the 
mouth  of  God."  (D&C  98:8-9,  11.) 

This  is  indeed  a  day  of  testing,  not 
only  the  testing  of  rockets  and  missiles, 
but  also  the  testing  of  our  allegiance  to 
God,  the  testing  of  our  beliefs  in  God. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

It  is  a  day  of  sifting,  a  day  when 
each  of  us  must  determine  where  we 
stand.  To  each  member  of  the  Church 
and  to  all  people,  I  say,  with  King 
Benjamin  (I  hope  I  shall  meet  him 
someday),  these  words: 

"Believe  in  God;  believe  that  he  is, 
and  that  he  created  all  things,  both  in 
heaven  and  in  earth;  believe  that  he  has 
all  wisdom,  and  all  power,  both  in 
heaven  and  in  earth;  believe  that  man 
doth  not  comprehend  all  the  things 
which  the  Lord  can  comprehend. 

"And  again,  believe  that  ye  must  re- 
pent of  your  sins  and  forsake  them,  and 
humble  yourselves  before  God;  and  ask 
in  sincerity  of  heart  that  he  would  for- 
give you;  and  now,  if  you  believe  all 
these  things  see  that  ye  do  them." 
(Mosiah  4:9-10.) 

"And  moreover,  I  would  desire  that 
ye  should  consider  on  the  blessed  and 
happy  state  of  those  that  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  God.  For  behold,  they 
are  blessed  in  all  things,  both  temporal 
and  spiritual;  and  if  they  hold  out  faith- 
ful to  the  end  they  are  received  into 
heaven,  that  thereby  they  may  dwell 
with  God  in  a  state  of  never-ending 
happiness.  O  remember,  remember,"  he 
said,  "that  these  things  are  true;  for 
the  Lord  hath  spoken  it."  (Ibid.,  2:41.) 

I  have  no  doubt,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  that  the  course  of  this  nation  will 
be  directed  by  the  hand  of  God  if  we 
believe  in  him  to  the  degree  that  we 
serve  him  and  keep  his  commandments 
as  a  people  and  as  a  nation,  for  he  has 
said,  "If  ye  walk  in  my  statutes  and 
keep  my  commandments,  and  do 
them,  .  .  .  (Lev.  26:3.)  ...  I  will  give 
peace  in  the  land,  .  .  .  (Ibid.,  26:6)  and 
will  be  your  God,  and  ye  shall  be  my 
people."  (Ibid.,  26:12.)  This  I  believe 
and  I  testify  to  the  reality  of  God  and  of 
Jesus  Christ  and  of  those  who  represent 
him  here  at  the  head  of  his  Church  and 
kingdom  today,  and  I  sustain  them  with 
all  my  heart. 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  EIRay  L.  Christiansen,  As- 
sistant to  the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to 
us.  Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  will  now 
address  us. 


75 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


The  presence  of  this  choice  group  of 
young  people  from  the  LDS  Institute  at 
Utah  State  University  in  Logan,  and  the 
remembrance  of  President  McKay's 
meaningful  address  which  devoted  itself 
in  part  to  youth  at  the  opening  session 
Thursday — in  which  he  spoke  of  grati- 
tude and  guidance  and  faith  and 
inspiration — suggest  that  I  pursue  some 
thoughts  along  these  lines,  if  I  may,  on 
perhaps  eight  or  ten  topics  each  one  of 
which  could  well  be  the  subject  of  a 
sermon. 

I  should  like  to  introduce  what  follows 
with  some  of  Longfellow's  eloquent 
lines,  as  he  addressed  himself  to  a  group 
of  young  people  upon  returning,  after 
fifty  years,  for  a  reunion  of  his  college 
class: 

"How  beautiful  is  youth!  how  bright 
it  gleams 

With  its  illusions,  aspirations,  dreams! 
Book  of  Beginnings,  Story  without  End, 
Each  maid  a  heroine,  and  each  man  a 
friend!" 

Because  it  is  a  story  without  end,  the 
book  of  beginnings  is  exceedingly  im- 
portant, and  I  should  like  to  suggest  to 
these  young  people  here  and  you  out 
there,  wherever  you  are,  to  the  farthest 
reaches  of  time  and  distance,  first  that 
you  seek  counsel.  Do  not  try  to  go  it 
alone  in  life.  Seek  the  guidance  that 
President  McKay  spoke  of,  of  prayer, 
the  guidance  of  parents,  of  those  who 
would  lead  you  well  in  all  decisions. 

I  should  like  to  plead  with  you  to 
have  faith.  The  Lord  will  not  leave 
you  alone.  Have  faith  in  freedom,  in 
the  future,  in  God,  in  yourselves,  in 
things  to  come,  and  in  the  wisdom  of 
preparing  well.  (It  has  been  well  said 
that  "Yesterday  is  a  cancelled  check; 
tomorrow  is  a  promissory  note;  but  today 
is  cash.")  Have  faith  in  tomorrow,  but 
use  well  today. 

May  I  suggest  that  you  keep  flexi- 
bility in  life,  along  with  a  steadfast  firm- 
ness. Life  does  change.  Many  things 
change.  We  have  to  learn  to  change 
in  some  things,  and  we  have  to  learn 
to  distinguish  between  what  we  should 


change  and  what  we  should  not 
change — for  the  basic  fundamentals  are 
still  irrevocably  there.  We  cannot 
change  principles  or  conduct  without 
the  consequences  that  come  from  con- 
duct, no  matter  what  changes  there  are 
on  the  face  of  things.  Keep  flexibility 
with  firmness:  watching  the  spirit  as 
well  as  the  letter  of  the  law,  not 
quibbling,  not  relying  on  technicalities; 
pursuing  those  things  which  lead  to 
health  and  happiness,  peace  and  a  quiet 
conscience;  learning  to  live  with  the 
light  which  the  Lord  has  placed  within 
us;  and  in  all  things  moving  as  we 
need  to,  to  adjust  to  surface  considera- 
tions, yet  standing  firmly  fixed  in  the 
principles  and  commandments  and  in 
the  things  of  honor  and  justice  and 
eternal  truth  and  right  that  God  has 
given;  living  in  truth  and  decency;  never 
giving  way  to  sin  or  to  cynicism;  keeping 
control  of  ourselves,  our  thoughts,  our 
actions,  our  utterances. 

May  I  plead  with  you,  also,  keep  a 
balance  in  life. 

I  am  proud  of  what  the  seminary  sys- 
tem of  the  Church  is  doing  and  the  in- 
stitutes from  which  these  young  people 
have  come,  and  other  organizations  of 
the  Church  that  help  to  balance  the 
material  considerations  of  life  with  the 
things  of  the  Spirit. 

Never  become  narrowly  educated,  but 
broadly  so,  feeding  all  sides  of  your- 
selves, reading  and  becoming  acquainted 
with  good  books,  with  great  minds  and 
great  men  of  the  past;  becoming  ac- 
quainted with  scripture  and  reading 
scripture  itself.  Do  not  be  satisfied  to 
read  books  about  scripture  or  books 
about  books,  but  go  to  the  prime  and 
the  primary  sources.  You  do  , not  catch 
much  of  the  spirit  of  Shakespeare  merely 
by  reading  commentaries  on  Shakespeare. 
You  capture  it  by  reading  Shakespeare, 
and  so  it  is  in  large  measure  with  scrip- 
ture. Keep  balanced  in  your  lives  and 
starve  no  side  of  yourselves. 

Now,  as  to  a  willingness  to  work: 
Nothing  ever  does  itself.  Nothing  ever 
memorizes  itself.  Nothing  ever  accom- 
plishes itself — without    the  requisite 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


76 

Saturday,  April  8 

effort.  Carlyle  said,  "Men  do  less  than 
they  ought,  unless  they  do  all  that  they 
can."  It  is  not  enough  just  to  try; 
we  have  to  succeed.  The  Lord  expects 
us  to  see  things  through. 

May  I  plead  with  you  one  other 
thing?  That  you  share  the  gospel  and 
these  great  gifts  that  God  has  given. 
Call  it  referral,  call  it  sharing  the  gospel, 
or  whatever  you  will — that  which  we 
have,  which  others  have  helped  to  give 
us,  we  have  an  earnest  obligation  to 
share.  Will  you  young  men,  wherever 
you  are,  point  your  lives  towards  mis- 
sions, and  you  parents  help  them  so 
to  point?  There  is  an  old  proverb  which 
says,  "When  you  drink  of  the  water, 
don't  forget  the  spring  from  which  it 
flows." 

Our  lives  are  not  our  own.  So  much 
of  others  has  gone  into  the  making  of 
all  of  us,  into  teaching,  into  training, 
into  all  that  we  have  inherited,  into  all 
that  God  has  given,  and  especially 
above  all,  the  gospel.  Earnestly  we 
have  an  obligation  to  share  it  with 
others. 

Would  you  look  wisely  toward  your 
choices  in  marriage  and  remember  that 
there  is  nothing  that  a  good  marriage 
so  much  needs  as  it  needs  character  and 
common  convictions?  Respect  and 
character  and  common  convictions  will 
compensate  for  many  other  things; 
nothing  else  will  compensate  for  these. 
Love  will  not  last  long  without  respect 
and  character  and  common  convictions. 
Remember  this,  and  make  no  hasty 
or  shortsighted  decisions. 

May  I  suggest  that  you  go  all  the  way 
with  the  gospel,  keeping  all  the  com- 
mandments, for  they  all  came  from  the 
same  source.  I  do  not  know  who  in  mor- 
tality, among  men,  would  have  the 
wisdom  to  choose  one  commandment, 
or  several,  and  set  aside  some  others. 
This  would  be  presuming  to  set  our 
wisdom  against  that  which  God  has 
given.    Go  with  his  way  all  the  way. 

May  I  suggest  humility  and  never  the 
pride  of  learning.  Be  patient.  There 
may  be  some  seeming  discrepancies.  Do 
not  worry  about  them.  Eternity  is  a 
long  time.  I  have  a  great  respect  for 
learning,  for  academic  endeavor  and  the 
university  atmosphere.  I  have  spent 
many  years  of  my  life  in  one  way  or  an- 


Second  Day 

other  going  to  or  in  being  associated 
with  some  great  institutions  of  learning. 
I  have  a  great  respect  for  science  and 
scientists  and  for  the  search  for  truth.  But 
remember  this:  science  after  all  (even 
when  it  is  true  and  final  and  factual) 
is  simply  man's  discovering  of  a  few 
things  that  God  already  knows  and  con- 
trols in  his  ordering  of  the  universe.  We 
are,  after  all,  a  bit  like  Newton  who 
said  of  himself  that  he  was  like  a  child 
handling  a  few  pebbles  on  the  shore 
while  the  great,  limitless,  eternal  sea 
was  before  him.  God  has  not  told  us 
all  he  knows.  We  believe  in  continuous 
revelation.  Be  patient.  Keep  humble 
and  balanced  in  all  things. 

Keep  courage.  Do  not  feel  sorry  for 
yourselves.  Whatever  you  do,  do  not 
feel  sorry  for  yourselves.  You  live  in  a 
great  age  of  great  opportunity.  I  re- 
member the  words  of  one  very  sharp 
and  shrewd  observer  who  said,  "When- 
ever I  hear  someone  sigh  and  say  that 
life  is  hard,  I  am  tempted  to  ask  'com- 
pared to  what'?"  What  are  the  alterna- 
tives? No  one  ever  promised  us  it 
would  be  easy.  It  is  a  schooling;  it  is 
an  opportunity;  it  is  a  learning  period, 
and  a  wonderful  one.  Despite  all  the 
disappointments  and  difficulties,  the 
great  and  ultimate  rewards  are  beyond 
price. 

Keep  faith.  "And,  if  you  keep  my 
commandments,"  the  Lord  God  has 
said  to  us,  "and  endure  to  the  end  you 
shall  have  eternal  life,  which  gift  is 
the  greatest  of  all  the  gifts  of  God." 
(D&C  14:7.) 

Now,  it  will  not  be  long,  in  reality, 
in  these  quickly  moving  days  when 
you,  my  beloved  young  friends,  will  be 
taking  over  from  us.  I  started  with 
some  lines  from  Longfellow.  I  should 
like  to  offer  some  others  at  this  point 
from  the  same  meaningful  poem  that 
he  wrote  on  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of 
his  college  class: 

"And  ye  who  fill  the  places  we  once 
filled 

And  follow  in  the  furrows  that  we  tilled, 
Young  men  whose  generous  hearts  are 

beating  high, 
We  who  are  old,  and  are  about  to  die, 
Salute  you;  hail  you;  take  your  hands 

in  ours, 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


77 


And  crown  you  with  our  welcome  as 
with  flowers!" 

When  we  sing,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O 
God,  for  a  Prophet,"  my  beloved  friends, 
it  is  not  just  for  a  prophet  of  the  past, 
but  with  a  great  gratitude  in  our  hearts 
for  the  prophet  of  God  that  he  has 
given  us  in  this  day,  for  whose  leader- 
ship I  acknowledge  with  you  my  grati- 
tude to  God,  and  also  the  literal  divinity 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  the 
appearance  of  him  and  his  Father  to  a 
Prophet  of  the  last  dispensation,  even 
Joseph  Smith. 

I  have  a  great  respect  for  all  men 
and  their  beliefs,  but  think  it  not  a 


strange  thing  that  in  a  kingdom,  the 
kingdom  of  God,  there  should  be  spe- 
cific requirements  and  commandments, 
and  a  way  that  God  has  given  for  our 
realizing  the  highest  happiness  and 
peace  and  progress. 

May  we  follow  that  way,  may  we 
share  it,  may  we  keep  faith,  I  pray,  in 
Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder 
Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.  Our  concluding  speaker  will 
be  Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


When  I  was  a  little  boy  in  Primary 
and  Sunday  School  there  was  one  song 
we  sang  almost  more  than  any  other. 
One  verse  and  chorus  go  like  this: 
"O  Galilee!  sweet  Galilee!  Where  Jesus 

loved  so  much  to  be; 
Oh  Galilee!  blue  Galilee!  Come,  sing 

thy  songs  again  to  me. 

"And  when  I  read  the  thrilling  lore 
Of  him  who  walked  upon  the  sea 
I  long,  oh,  how  I  long  once  more 
To  follow  him  in  Galilee." 

And  at  last  after  many  years,  that 
longing  was  fulfilled,  and  I  saw  his 
beloved  Galilee.  Would  you  like  to 
make  a  little  hurried  trip  with  us  to 
the  land  of  milk  and  honey,  the  land 
our  fathers  loved? 

We  stand  on  the  steepened  hill  rising 
north  from  the  blue,  blue  sea  of  Galilee. 
We  are  hundreds  of  feet  below  sea  level. 
It  is  winter,  and  the  air  is  crisp,  and  our 
top  coats  are  little  enough.  Our  guide 
points  out  locations,  at  least  some  of 
which  are  authentic.  Here,  he  says, 
sat  the  multitude  while  the  Master  ex- 
pounded the  never-dying  "Sermon  on 
the  Mount."  Below  us  lies  the  sea  he 
loved.  It  is  smaller  than  we  expected. 
We  can  see  the  whole  of  it  in  one 
glance.  It  is  not  unlike  a  great  heart 
in  shape  or  function  for  its  fluid  has 


been  the  life  blood  of  millions  of  peo- 
ple through  many  ages. 

This  is  the  sea  of  miracles.  We  see  it 
calm  and  placid,  and  again,  rough  and 
boisterous.  Countless  fish  from  it  have 
fed  countless  peoples.  It  was  crossed 
numerous  times  by  the  Savior  in  little 
boats,  in  larger  ships;  and  in  its  cool 
waters,  tired  feet  were  cooled.  Its  wild 
waves  were  calmed  by  his  single  com- 
mand: "Peace,  be  still  1"  He  walked  on 
its  surface;  he  preached  from  its  shores. 
Not  far  to  our  left  gathered  the  thou- 
sands whose  hunger  was  satisfied  on  the 
miracled  increase  of  loaves  and  fishes. 

And  we  can  almost  see  the  disciples 
gathering  up  twelve  baskets  of  residue 
after  5,000  had  fed  on  five  loaves  and 
two  fishes.  We  seem  to  see  the  four 
special  fishermen  with  their  nets  and 
boats.  Here  Peter  grappled  with  a  fish 
which  had  in  its  mouth  a  coin  for 
taxes.  Down  there  he  walked  on  the 
water;  and  when  his  faith  waned,  it 
was  supplemented  by  that  of  the  Lord. 
With  our  Testament  open  we  read  of 
the  ministry  of  Christ,  for  this  was  the 
scene  of  much  of  it.  We  ask  for  the 
cities  in  which  he  lived  and  performed 
so  many  miracles,  for  we  remember  that 
in  this  area  of  but  a  few  miles  much 
of  his  work  was  done,  much  of  his 
ministry  was  accomplished.  We  would 
like  to  walk  through  the  triplet  cities 


78 

Saturday,  April  8 

so  often  visited:  Bethsaida,  Chorazin, 
and  Capernaum.  We  see  no  spires  nor 
towers,  nor  walls.  We  ask  our  guide: 
"Where  is  Chorazin?"  He  shakes  his 
head.  There  is  no  Chorazin.  We  con- 
clude it  must  have  been  on  those  hills 
above  where  now  are  sprouting  grain 
and  vegetables  and  dry  weeds. 

"Then  where  is  Bethsaida?"  we  ask. 
"Where  is  that  noted  city  where  so 
many  sick  were  healed  and  the  lame 
were  made  to  walk;  where  deaf  could 
hear  and  lepers  lost  their  curse?  Where 
is  his  favorite  place  he  often  lodged, 
the  home  of  Andrew,  Peter,  and  Philip, 
his  dearest  friends?  Where  is  old 
Bethsaida,  the  house  of  fishers,  the 
place  of  miracles,  the  seat  of  gospel 
teachings,  where  fishermen  became 
apostles?"  In  these  very  few  miles  much 
of  interest  happened.  "Where  is 
Bethsaida?"  Our  guide  shakes  his  head 
again.  There  is  no  Bethsaida.  "Caper- 
naum, then?"  we  ask,  "Where  is  that 
important  place,  the  port  where  fish 
were  loaded,  traded,  marketed?"  He 
shakes  his  head  again,  then  smiles  as 
he  thinks  it  through  and  changes  the 
accent,  and  "Oh,  you  mean  Capcr- 
NAUM."  He  shows  us  the  ruins  of  a 
large  synagogue. 

If  this  was  of  the  Messianic  period, 
it  is  the  sole  survivor.  A  back  wall, 
great  stones  tumbled  in  disarray,  some 
olive  presses  are  mute  reminders  of  long 
ago.  But  that  can't  be  Capernaum,  his 
own  city,  the  great  Capernaum,  the 
haughty,  wicked,  rebellious,  Capernaum! 

Now  we  realize  that  we  should  not 
have  expected  to  see  these  cities,  for  were 
they  not  doomed  1,900  years  ago?  Have 
we  forgotten  the  prophetic  curse  of  the 
Master?  In  their  unrepentant  attitudes 
toward  the  Savior  of  the  world  and  his 
exalting  message,  Christ  warned:  "Woe 
unto  thee,  Chorazin!  Woe  unto  thee, 
Bethsaida!  for  if  the  mighty  works, 
which  were  done  in  you,  had  been  in 
Tyre  and  Sidon,  they  would  have  re- 
pented long  ago  in  sackcloth  and  ashes. 

"But  I  say  unto  you,  It  shall  be  more 
tolerable  for  Tyre  and  Sidon  at  the  day 
of  judgment,  than  for  you."  We  found 
that  Tyre  and  Sidon  still  exist  on  the 
Mediterranean  coast. 

"And  thou,  Capernaum,  which  art 
exalted  unto  heaven,  shalt  be  brought 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

down  to  hell:  for  if  the  mighty  works, 
which  have  been  done  in  thee,  had  been 
done  in  Sodom,  it  would  have  remained 
until  this  day.  But  I  say  unto  you,  That 
it  shall  be  more  tolerable  for  the  land 
of  Sodom  in  the  day  of  judgment,  than 
for  thee."  (Matt.  11:21-24.) 

And  then  we  remember  that  only 
prophets  and  angels  had  visited  Sodom 
to  call  that  people  to  repentance,  but 
for  these  tri-cities  the  Creator,  the  Lord, 
the  Christ  had  come  in  person  and  for 
nearly  three  years  had  dwelt  among 
them  and  performed  the  miracles  and 
taught  the  gospel.  They  had  ignored 
and  rejected  him.  (We  cannot  remem- 
ber ever  reading  about  any  Church 
branches  in  these  cities.)  Sodom  and 
Gomorrah  went  up  in  smoke  "as  the 
smoke  of  a  furnace."  If  these  cities 
were  more  rebellious  than  Tyre  and 
Sidon,  more  corrupt  than  Sodom,  and 
more  wicked  than  Gomorrah,  we  think 
we  understand. 

We  bathe  our  tired  feet  in  the  rippling 
waters  of  the  shoreline.  We  look  for 
remains  of  former  cities.  A  few  stones 
lapped  by  the  water  are  rounded  or 
squared.  Could  they  have  been  a  part 
of  a  synagogue,  the  home  of  Peter,  the 
remains  of  a  stone  harbor,  the  walls  of 
the  centurian's  place? 

We  move  to  the  Jordan,  the  deepest 
ditch  in  the  world,  the  liquid  backbone 
of  Palestine.  "The  river  that  goes 
down"  is  an  appropriate  name,  for  it 
descends  in  many  streams  from  snow- 
covered  Mt.  Hermon  in  thousands  of 
leaps  and  falls  and  gurgles  to  saunter 
through  the  valley  of  Hula  and  take  a 
kind  hospitable  rest  in  the  blue  of 
Galilee.  It  tears  and  twists  ever  more 
swiftly  downward  in  an  almost  in- 
credibly sinuous  manner  from  the  sweet 
waters  of  the  fountains  and  melting 
snow  to  the  bitter  dead  waters  of  the 
salt  sea,  2,500  feet  lower. 

This  Jordan  is  not  so  unlike  our  own 
Jordan  in  this  Salt  Lake  Valley.  Squirm- 
ing, twisting,  burrowing  madly,  revers- 
ing, side  to  side,  turning,  writhing  like 
a  serpent,  meandering  like  a  lazy  tide- 
water stream  but  in  places  pushing, 
hurrying  swiftly  down  its  circuitous 
way.  It  loops  in  quarter,  half,  and  three 
quarter  turns  and  travels  two  hundred 
miles  of  river  in  a  sixty  mile  distance, 


ELDER  SPENCE 

covered  three  to  ten  feet  deep  and  ninety 
to  one  hundred  feet  wide.  It  flows 
swiftly,  some  of  the  way  through  its 
whirlpools,  cascades,  and  winding 
through  the  jungle  growth.  And  we  are 
on  its  banks  not  many  miles  from  where 
it  spreads  gently  into  the  sea,  where  it 
also  dies. 

The  Jordan — the  famous  Jordan!  (We 
open  our  Bibles  and  read.)  Across  and 
beyond,  not  many  miles  is  Mt.  Pisgah. 
We  fancy  we  see  an  old  bearded  man 
whose  "eye  was  not  dim  nor  his  natural 
force  abated."  He  climbs  the  heights  as 
commanded: 

"Get  thee  up  into  the  top  of  Pisgah," 
said  the  Lord,  "and  lift  up  thine  eyes 
westward,  and  northward,  and  south- 
ward, and  eastward,  and  behold  it  with 
thine  eyes:  for  thou  shalt  not  go  over 
this  Jordan."  (Deut.  3:27.)  It  is  a  little 
land.  Moses  could  see  Mt.  Hermon  to 
the  far  north,  the  Mediterranean  to  the 
west,  south  and  east  to  the  deserts  and 
the  country  in  between.  Miles  are  short 
unless  one  travels  on  foot  or  by  donkey 
as  did  the  Savior.  From  Dan  to  Beersheba 
he  can  see  almost  the  whole  of  Palestine 
spread  out  before  him  like  a  huge  ele- 
phant hide,  wrinkled  in  hills  and  valleys 
and  thicker  and  heavier  on  top  and 
thinning  at  the  edges  where  are  the 
Jordan  and  the  Mediterranean. 

We  fancy  we  can  see  the  hordes  of 
Israelites  coming  from  the  south,  four 
decades  earlier  released  from  Egypt's 
thralldom.  They  come  with  their 
families  and  burdens  to  this  river,  too 
deep  to  ford.  Moses  has  been  left  be- 
hind, but  Joshua  commands,  and  the 
Jordan  dries  as  did  the  Red  Sea  before 
them.  And  Israel  with  their  bundles, 
animals,  burdens,  flocks,  and  families 
crossed  this  winding  muddy  river  to  the 
promised  land  on  which  we  stand.  We 
turn  westward.  About  three  miles  are 
Gilgal  ruins,  the  first  camp  of  Israel  on 
the  west.  And  a  little  farther  is  Jericho, 
the  old  and  the  new.  The  ancient  one 
is  in  ruins  and  its  tumbling  walls,  buried 
for  ages,  are  now  excavated.  These 
crumbling  walls  fell  when  the  ram 
horns  of  the  people  of  Joshua  rent  the 
air  and  when  the  tramping  of  hordes 
of  feet  seemed  to  shake  them.  Beyond 
is  the  precipitous  mountain  between 
here  and  Jerusalem  where,  tradition 


{  W.  KIMBALL  79 

claims,  is  the  Mount  of  Temptation, 
where  the  divine  voice  commanded, 
"Get  thee  behind  me,  Satan." 

We  are  back  on  the  banks  of  the 
Jordan  where  it  is  narrower  and  swifter. 
We  fancy  we  see  Elijah  and  Elisha 
cross  the  miraculously  drained  river  bed. 
From  here  we  see  the  towers  of  Jeru- 
salem on  the  crest  of  the  high  western 
hills.  The  river  still  intrigues  us. 
Abraham,  Lot,  and  Jacob  waded  it; 
Joshua  and  Israel  crossed  it;  its  fords 
were  fought  over;  it  was  a  barrier 
against  enemies  and  a  hiding  place  for 
fugitives;  in  it  the  Syrian  captain  left 
his  leprosy;  here  Elijah  crossed  dry  shod, 
and  here  Elisha  received  Elijah's  mantle. 
Here  John  preached,  and  here  was  the 
Lord  baptized  to  fulfil  all  righteousness. 
We  tread  lightly,  for  this  is  sacred 
ground.  We  reabsorb  the  story  as  we 
read.  We  fancy  we  see  in  the  muddy 
water  two  people  and  one  is  immersed. 
A  holy  voice  speaks,  and  we  hear  impres- 
sive words,  "This  is  my  Beloved  Son  in 
whom  I  am  well  pleased." 

We  climb  the  sharp  hills  to  the  west, 
reluctantly  leaving  the  sacred  spots 
made  holy  by  the  presence  and  works 
of  the  Master.  Perhaps  these  very  hills 
may  be  the  ones  in  which  he  sought 
solitude  so  often  as  he  climbed  the 
mount  apart. 

Through  grain  fields,  over  hilly  areas, 
and  through  the  great  valley  of  Jezreel, 
with  a  distance  less  than  from  Salt  Lake 
City  to  Ogden,  we  come  to  Megiddo. 
Let  us  stand  on  this  abrupt  eminence, 
for  from  here  we  can  see  much  of 
Galilee.  This  steep  hill  goes  back  near 
the  beginning.  History  grew  up  here. 
Many  civilizations  have  come  and  gone, 
and  the  debris  tells  scientists  that  the 
ruins  of  the  20th  civilization  is  the  one 
on  which  we  tread.  This  is  Megiddo  or 
Armageddon — Megiddo,  the  ancient — 
Megiddo,  the  scene  of  mighty  conflicts — 
"Battle  Mountain,"  it  could  be  called. 
This  hill  has  witnessed  the  caravans  of 
traders  for  many  centuries — caravans 
laden  with  treasures  for  trade  around 
the  fertile  crescent  and  the  East.  This 
hill  has  seen  armies  of  great  nations, 
training,  camping,  fighting,  bleeding — 
Egyptians,  Assyrians,  Canaanites,  Israel- 
ites, Persians,  Greeks,  Romans,  Saracens, 
Crusaders,  the  Turks,  and  the  British. 


80 

Saturday,  April  8 

Soil  here  was  fertilized  with  human 
bodies — soil  here  was  drenched  with 
human  blood. 

We  climb  the  ramp  walk  on  the 
farther  side  and  pick  gorgeous  scarlet 
poppies  as  we  climb.  Did  not  the 
Savior  say  something  about  Solomon  in 
all  his  glory  not  being  arrayed  like  one 
of  these? 

Here  Solomon  stabled  his  horses  and 
stored  his  chariots.  Here  are  the  exca- 
vated silo  pits  in  which  their  barley  and 
other  feed  was  stored;  here  certainly 
were  some  of  Solomon's  "forty  thousand 
stalls  for  horses  for  his  chariots,  and 
twelve  thousand  horsemen."  (1  Kings 
4:26.)  Below  us  is  the  fertile,  watered 
valley  of  Esdraelon,  where  grew  the 
barley  and  the  straw  stored  in  the  silos 
for  the  king's  horses  and  dromedaries. 
His  horses  were  prized  ones,  costing  in 
Egypt  150  shekels  of  silver,  and  a 
chariot,  four  times  the  amount.  They 
must  have  the  best  food  and  lodging. 
Below  in  the  checkered  valley  grew  the 
barley,  the  vegetables,  the  fruits,  the 
grapes. 

Beneath  us  is  the  brook  Kishon.  To 
our  left  is  the  Carmel  range,  and  here 
was  Elijah  in  his  memorable  contest 
with  the  priests  of  Baal.  Mt.  Carmel 
stones  made  the  altar,  Mt.  Carmel  wood 
was  the  fuel.  Mt.  Carmel  saw  the  de- 
feat and  route  of  400  idolatrous  priests 
of  Baal  and  the  great  triumph  of  the 
prophet  of  the  God  of  Israel. 

Across  the  little  valley  in  a  clump  of 
green  is  Endor.  Just  those  few  miles 
away.  Disguised  King  Saul  and  the 
witch  of  Endor  were  here.  What  con- 
sternation must  have  enveloped  the  per- 
turbed Saul  as  he  was  told  his  army 
would  be  captured;  he  and  his  sons 
would  be  killed.  The  Lord  could  have 
walked  here  many  times.  It  is  near 
Nazareth. 

A  little  to  the  right  is  Nain.  We 
fancy  we  see  the  large  crowd  of  people 
with  the  Master  at  the  head  walking 
into  the  little  village.  A  funeral  pro- 
cession is  en  route  to  the  cemetery,  and 
they  meet  at  the  city's  gate.  A  few 
minutes  pass,  and  the  mourners  turn 
around  and  return  to  their  homes.  A 
miracle  has  happened — a  dead  man  is 
now  a  living  soul.  The  widow  is  over- 
joyed.   The  restored  lad  is  speaking. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

The  Nazarene  may  have  been  ac- 
quainted with  and  sympathetic  with 
this  widow,  for  Nain  is  but  a  few  miles 
from  Nazareth.  Across  to  the  left  is 
the  rounded  Mt.  Tabor.  It  looks  like 
a  gigantic  basketball  with  its  lower 
seventy  percent  buried.  It  is  wooded. 
We  read  our  New  Testament  again.  Here 
is  reputed  to  be  the  Mount  of  Transfig- 
uration. If  that  be  true  then  up  these 
steepening  slopes  walked  the  Lord  with 
Peter,  James,  and  John.  There  they 
would  meet  in  conference  with  Moses 
and  Elias,  and  three  humble  fisher- 
men apostles  would  hear  from  the  over- 
shadowing cloud  the  voice  of  the  Eternal 
Father  in  heaven  introducing  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ  as  his  Beloved  Son  in  whom 
he  was  well  pleased;  and  here  would 
Peter  say:  ".  .  .  let  us  make  here  three 
tabernacles;  one  for  thee,  and  one  for 
Moses,  and  one  for  Elias,"  and  here 
would  unspeakable  things  be  told  and 
authority  be  given. 

Beyond  Tabor,  not  very  far  is  Cana, 
the  place  of  the  miracle  of  the  wedding 
feast.  Jesus  and  his  family  might  have 
been  well  acquainted  in  nearby  Cana. 

To  the  left  of  Tabor  and  across  the 
valley  of  Jezreel,  in  the  cup  in  the 
cluster  of  hills,  is  the  boyhood  home  of 
the  Savior.  That  is  Nazareth  toward 
the  top  of  the  long  canyon  draw,  the 
city  of  gnarled  olive  trees  and  threshing 
floors.  There  are  the  old  stone  houses 
of  the  ages  past.  There  are  the  caves 
in  which  he  played,  the  hills  he  climbed, 
the  places  where  he  worked. 

And  this  is  Galilee,  and  in  a  glance 
we  can  see  the  haunts  of  Jesus'  growing- 
up  years  and  his  ministry.  He  likely 
knew  every  hill  and  vale,  every  creek 
and  valley.  He  surely  knew  many  of 
the  people,  for  distances  were  not  great 
and  people  not  too  numerous.  Here  and 
in  the  plains  below  he  must  have 
learned  the  many  lessons  of  his  parables. 
Birds  of  the  air,  the  foxes  in  their  holes, 
the  lilies  of  the  valley,  the  olive  press, 
the  plow,  the  waving  grain,  the  wine 
press,  the  watchmen  towers.  It  would 
be  from  one  of  these  sharp  hills  that 
his  townspeople  would  have  thrown  him 
to  death — perhaps  the  only  inhabitant 
which  would  ever  be  prominent  enough 
to  be  remembered  by  history.  Perhaps 
in  those  very  caves  or  tombs  was  he 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


81 


able  to  escape  from  their  fury  to  leave 
forever  the  city  of  his  growing  up. 

We  stand  upon  Mt.  Olivet,  the  mile- 
long  mountain  above  Jerusalem.  It  is 
a  long,  rugged  way  to  its  top,  but  the 
Lord  must  have  climbed  it  numerous 
times.  Behind  the  mount  but  a  few 
short  miles  is  Bethany  where  he  visited 
his  loved  friends  Mary  and  Martha  and 
Lazarus  whom  he  brought  out  of  the 
tomb  when  four  days  dead  by  the  single 
authoritative  command,  "Lazarus,  come 
forth." 

Below  us  is  the  Kidron  Valley,  deep- 
ening sharply  down  to  the  Pool  of 
Siloam  where  the  fountain  water  comes 
forth  from  the  mountain  on  which  the 
city  stands.  Here  the  blind  man  came 
to  see,  when  he  washed  the  clay  and 
spittle  from  his  eyelids  in  response  to 
the  command,  "Go,  wash  in  the  pool 
of  Siloam." 

Above  are  the  high  up,  irregular  city 
walls  and  within  them  the  narrow 
streets,  the  cave-like  shops,  the  dark 
passages,  the  wailing  wall.  Nearest  us 
are  the  temple  precincts,  where  the 
courts  and  towers  were  so  important  in 
those  centuries  when  history  was  being 
made.  Beyond  is  Golgotha,  the  place 
of  the  skull,  the  hill  of  crucifixion. 
There  he  suffered  and  bled  and  died. 
Not  far  from  the  mount  is  the  garden 
tomb  thought  to  be  the  sacred  one 
where  the  lifeless  body  of  the  Redeemer 
lay,  and  immediately  outside  of  it  the 
garden  into  which  he  emerged  from  the 
tomb  where  he  said  to  Mary,  "Touch 
me  not;  for  I  am  not  yet  ascended  to  my 
father."  (John  20:17.) 

At  the  foot  of  this  mount  is  Geth- 
semane  where  his  sufferings  were  beyond 
all  mortal  comprehension.  We  climb 
this  lofty  Mount  of  Olives  to  its  rounded 
top  and  stand  on  sacred  ground.  Here 
Christ's  earthly  ministry  was  completed; 
here  the  apostles  gathered  about  him, 
saw  the  overshadowing  cloud  receive 
him  out  of  their  sight,  and  breathless, 
stood  in  awe  and  wonder  as  the  angels 
said,  "Ye  men  of  Galilee,  why  stand  ye 
gazing  up  into  heaven?  this  same  Jesus, 
which  is  taken  up  from  you  into  heaven, 
shall  so  come  in  like  manner  as  ye  have 
seen  him  go  into  heaven."  (Acts  1:11.) 

To  visit  the  places  where  such  mo- 
mentous happenings  affected  the  eterni- 


ties of  us  all  was  most  interesting  and 
intriguing  and  added  color  to  our 
picture,  but  we  did  not  need  to  walk 
through  the  Holy  Land  to  know  eternal 
truth. 

We  realized  it  is  not  so  important  to 
know  whether  Mt.  Hermon  or  Mt.  Tabor 
was  the  transfiguration  place  but  to 
know  that  on  the  summit  of  a  high 
mountain  was  held  a  great  conference 
of  mortal  and  immortal  beings  where 
unspeakable  things  were  said  and  au- 
thoritative keys  were  delivered  and  ap- 
proval was  given  of  the  life  and  works 
of  his  only  Begotten  Son  when  the 
voice  of  the  Father  in  the  overshadowing 
cloud  said:  "This  is  my  Beloved  Son, 
in  whom  I  am  well  pleased."  (Matt. 
17:5.) 

Not  so  important  to  know  upon  which 
great  stone  the  Master  leaned  in  agoniz- 
ing decision-prayers  in  the  Garden  of 
Gethsemane,  as  to  know  that  he  did  in 
that  area  conclude  to  accept  voluntarily 
crucifixion  for  our  sakes.  Not  so  need- 
ful to  know  on  which  hill  his  cross  was 
planted  nor  in  what  tomb  his  body  lay 
nor  in  which  garden  he  met  Mary,  but 
that  he  did  hang  in  voluntary  physical 
and  mental  agony;  that  his  lifeless, 
bloodless  body  did  lie  in  the  tomb  into 
the  third  day  as  prophesied,  and  above 
all  that  he  did  emerge  a  resurrected 
perfected  one — the  first  fruits  of  all  men 
in  resurrection  and  the  author  of  the 
gospel  which  could  give  eternal  life  to 
obedient  man. 

Not  so  important  to  know  where  he 
was  born  and  died  and  resurrected  but 
to  know  for  a  certainty  that  the  Eternal, 
Living  Father  came  to  approve  his  Son 
in  his  baptism  and  later  in  his  ministry, 
that  the  Son  of  God  broke  the  bands 
of  death  and  established  the  exaltation, 
the  way  of  life,  and  that  we  may  grow 
like  him  in  knowledge  and  perfected 
eternal  life.  And  this  I  know,  and  give 
my  solemn  witness,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  has  been  our 
concluding  speaker. 

Tonight  at  seven  o'clock  the  General 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


82 

Saturday,  April  8 

Meeting  of  the  Priesthood  of  the 
Church  will  be  held  in  this  Taber- 
nacle. Only  those  holding  the  Priest- 
hood are  invited  to  be  present.  Per- 
sons not  holding  the  Priesthood  will 
kindly  refrain  from  attempting  to  enter 
the  building.  This  Priesthod  session 
will  not  be  broadcast,  but  in  addition 
to  overflow  meetings  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall,  the  proceed- 
ings of  this  meeting  will  be  relayed  by 
closed  circuit  to  members  of  the  Priest- 
hood assembled  in  more  than  285  other 
Church  buildings  from  Coast  to  Coast, 
and  in  eleven  locations  in  Canada.  The 
general  sessions  tomorrow  will  be  broad- 
cast as  a  public  service  over  television 
and  radio  stations  throughout  the  West. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Broadcast  will 
be  from  9:30  to  10:00  a.m.  Those  de- 
siring to  attend  this  broadcast  should 
be  in  their  seats  no  later  than  9:15.  It 
is  requested  that  the  audience  kindly 
remain  quiet  during  this  broadcast. 

Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  be  the  speaker 
over  Columbia  Broadcasting  System's 
Church  of  the  Air  program  over  KSL 
tomorrow  morning  at  7:35  o'clock. 

The  singing  for  this  session  has  been 
furnished  by  the  Combined  Choirs  of 
the  Logan  Institute  of  Religion  and  the 
Utah  State  University,  under  the  di- 
rection of  Alma  L.  Dittmer,  with  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  are  happy  to  have  these  young 
people  with  us,  and  as  indicated  in 
anticipation  this  morning,  we  have 
been  inspired  by  their  singing.  I  wish 
to  commend  this  group  of  singers  for 
their  rapt  attention  to  the  messages 
given  by  the  leaders  of  the  Church 
today.  They  have  been  on  television 
as  well  as  others  here  with  us  today.  I 
have  passed  you  a  glance  every  once 
in  a  while  and  I  commend  you  as 
ladies  and  gentlemen.  You  have  set 
an  example  to  all  students,  to  all 
young  people. 

There  come  to  my  mind  now,  these 
lines  to  young  folks: 

You  ought  to  be  fine  for  the  sake  of  the 
folks 

Who  think  you  are  fine. 
If  others  have  faith  in  you  doubly  you're 
bound 
To  stick  to  the  line. 


Second  Day 

It's  not  only  on  you  that  dishonor  de- 
scends: 

You  can't  hurt  yourself  without  hurting 
your  friends. 

These  lines,  I  think,  are  even  better: 

You  ought  to  be  true  for  the  sake  of  the 
folks 

Who  believe  you  are  true. 
You  never  should  stoop  to  a  deed  that 
your  friends 
Think  you  wouldn't  do. 
If  you're  false  to  yourself,  be  the  blemish 

but  small, 
You  have  injured  your  friends;  you've 
been  false  to  them  all. 

For  friendship,  my  boy,  is  a  bond  be- 
tween men 
That  is  founded  on  truth; 
It  believes  in  the  best  of  the  ones  that 
it  loves, 
Whether  old  man  or  youth; 
And  the  stern  rule  it  lays  down  for  me 

and  for  you 
Is  to  be  what  our  friends  think  we  are, 
through  and  through. 

— Edgar  A.  Guest 

Thank  you,  boys  and  girls.  It  seems 
only  a  few  years  ago  that  some  of  us 
old  fogies  were  just  as  young  as  you. 
How  quickly  time  passes.  God  bless 
you.  Thank  you  and  the  Board  and 
the  Faculty  and  all,  and  this  in  behalf 
of  thousands  who  have  been  inspired 
by  your  singing. 

The  Combined  Choirs  will  now  sing, 
"The  Lord  Is  Great."  The  benediction 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  George  C. 
Ficklin,  president  of  the  South  Bear 
River  Stake,  after  which  this  Confer- 
ence will  be  adjourned  until  seven 
o'clock  this  evening. 


The  Combined  Choirs  of  the  Logan 
Institute  of  Religion  and  the  Utah  State 
University,  under  the  direction  of  Alma 
L.  Dittmer,  with  Frank  W.  Asper  at 
the  organ,  sang,  "The  Lord  Is  Great." 

Elder  George  C.  Flicklin,  president  of 
the  South  Bear  River  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  7:00  p.m. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


The  General  Priesthood  meeting  of 
the  Church  was  held  Saturday  evening, 
April  8,  1961,  at  7:00  p.m. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  exercises  of  the  meet- 
ing. The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's 
Chorus,  with  Richard  P.  Condie  direct- 
ing and  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the 
organ,  furnished  the  choral  numbers  for 
this  meeting. 

President  David  O.  McKay  made  the 
following  remarks  as  an  introduction  to 
the  services  of  this  meeting: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  will  be  interested  to  know  that 
these  services  are  being  relayed  by  closed 
circuit  to  members  of  the  Priesthood 
gathered  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  Barratt 
Hall,  and  in  285  other  Church  build- 
ings from  Coast  to  Coast  and  in  Canada. 

The  singing  during  this  session  will 
be  furnished  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
Men's  Chorus,  with  Elder  Richard  P. 
Condie  as  director,  and  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ.  We  shall  prob- 
ably also  have  a  solo  from  Brother 
Dennis  Clancy. 


We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus  singing, 
"The  Spirit  of  God  Like  A  Fire  Is  Burn- 
ing." After  the  singing  Elder  J.  Earl 
Lewis,  former  president  of  the  Canadian 
Mission,  will  offer  the  invocation. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus 
sang  the  hymn,  "The  Spirit  of  God  Like 
A  Fire  Is  Burning." 

Elder  J.  Earl  Lewis,  former  president 
of  the  Canadian  Mission  offered  the 
invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus 
will  now  sing  "Pilgrim's  Chorus,"  di- 
rected by  Elder  Richard  P.  Condie. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus 
sang  "Pilgrim's  Chorus." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  first  speaker  this  evening  will  be 
Elder  Franklin  D.  Richards,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brethren,  I  pray  that  the  beauti- 
ful prayer  that  was  offered  by  President 
Lewis  may  be  answered  in  my  behalf. 
I  am  aware  of  the  responsibility  that 
rests  upon  me,  and  I  appreciate  the 
opportunity  of  speaking  to  you  tonight. 

I  rejoice  in  the  wonderful  messages 
that  we  have  heard  from  President 
McKay  and  others  who  have  spoken  to 
us  during  this  conference,  and  I  am  in- 
spired by  the  great  vision  of  our  leaders. 
I  am  grateful  for  the  knowledge  that  I 
have  of  the  restored  gospel  and  for  the 
knowledge  that  I  have  of  my  Father  in 
heaven  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  is  a  great  inspira- 
tion to  me,  and  I  thrill  in  testifying  that 
God  the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ 
did  actually  appear  to  him  in  the  Sacred 
Grove. 


I  thrill  throughout  my  body,  mind, 
and  spirit  when  I  testify  to  the  truth- 
fulness of  that  great  vision — the  first 
vision  of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  and  I  ap- 
preciate the  wonderful  things  that  the 
Prophet  did  in  restoring  the  Church — 
he  was  an  instrument  in  the  hands  of 
the  Lord  in  restoring  the  gospel  and 
the  priesthood  to  the  earth  in  this  dis- 
pensation. I,  like  you,  love  and  respect 
our  great  prophet  and  leader,  President 
David  O.  McKay,  and  I  know  and  testify 
that  he  is  indeed  the  prophet  of  the 
Lord  and  the  head  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  on  this  earth  today. 

Now,  brethren,  truly  the  kingdom  of 
God  is  going  forward  that  the  kingdom 
of  heaven  may  come.  President  McKay 
has  counseled  us  that  every  member  of 
this  Church  should  be  a  missionary. 


84 

Saturday,  April  8 

Tonight  my  heart  is  really  filled  with 
the  missionary  spirit.  Heretofore  the 
missionary  work  has  been  performed 
chiefly  by  full-time  missionaries  and 
stake  and  district  missionaries.  Now  as 
President  McKay  has  told  us,  each  and 
every  one  of  us  has  the  opportunity  of 
being  a  missionary.  What  a  glorious 
opportunity  this  really  gives  us  when 
we  appreciate  what  we  can  do  as  mem- 
bers of  this  Church  in  spreading  the 
gospel. 

Another  great  prophet,  President 
George  Albert  Smith,  said  on  the  anni- 
versary of  the  first  hundred  years  of 
the  Church:  "As  we  stand  on  the  thresh- 
old of  a  new  century,  as  representatives 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  in  all 
walks  of  life,  we  have  the  responsibility 
to  go  among  the  people  at  home  and 
abroad,  and  great  will  be  our  happiness 
as  we  participate  in  this  new  era  of 
growth  and  development  that  lies 
ahead." 

Yes,  brethren,  we  are  truly  in  a  new 
era  of  growth  and  development,  and 
personally  I  am  grateful  and  thankful 
to  be  a  part  of  it.  Realizing  this  new 
era,  the  leaders  of  the  Church  are 
doubling  the  number  of  full-time  mis- 
sionaries, and  more  stake  and  district 
missionaries  are  being  called  today  than 
ever  before.  Formerly,  the  missionaries 
spent  a  large  part  of  their  time  in  finding 
someone  to  teach,  but  now  with  every 
member  of  the  Church  being  a  mission- 
ary, by  using  the  "share  the  gospel" 
program,  the  members,  in  effect,  find  the 
people  to  teach,  and  the  missionaries 
now  can  spend  a  very  large  part  of  their 
time  in  teaching,  mainly  in  groups. 

This  group  teaching  we  have  found 
to  be  very  effective,  both  in  saving  time 
in  teaching  and  in  the  psychology  that 
results  from  teaching  in  groups.  But, 
you  may  say,  how  can  I  be  a  missionary 
and  participate  in  the  "share  the  gospel" 
program?  Well,  there  are  several  ways. 

First,  you  can  invite  your  nonmember 
friends,  relatives,  neighbors,  business  as- 
sociates, or  others  that  you  might 
casually  contact,  into  your  homes,  pre- 
ferably in  groups,  and  then  let  the  full- 
time,  the  stake,  or  the  district  mission- 
aries teach  them  the  gospel. 

Second,  you  can  do  missionary  work 
by  using  the  referral  system.    By  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

referral  system  we  mean  sending  the 
names  of  those  friends  or  relatives  who 
live  outside  of  the  area  that  you  are 
living  in,  who  you  think  would  be 
interested  in  the  Church,  to  the  stake  or 
mission  president  in  the  area  in  which 
the  people  live. 

This  morning  we  heard  of  the  refer- 
ral that  resulted  in  the  conversion  and 
baptism  of  President  John  Taylor.  Many 
wonderful  people  are  being  brought  into 
the  Church  now  through  this  referral 
system. 

Third,  invite  your  nonmember  friends 
to  attend  auxiliary  meetings  and  other 
Church  meetings  with  you.  Fourth, 
live  your  religion,  love  your  neighbor. 
"Let  your  light  so  shine  before  men, 
that  they  may  see  your  good  works,  and 
glorify  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven." 
(Matt.  5:16.) 

Elder  Harold  B.  Lee,  in  touring  the 
Northwestern  States  Mission  last  sum- 
mer, said,  "This  means  let  your  light 
so  shine  that  men  shall  be  led  to  join 
the  Church,  or  the  kingdom  of  God." 

But  I  can  hear  many  of  you  say,  "I 
know  my  friends  and  relatives  wouldn't 
be  interested.  I  have  tried  for  years  to 
talk  to  members  of  my  family  about 
religion,  and  it  seems  to  irritate  them," 
and  other  such  things.  But  I  ask  you, 
do  you  really  know  that  your  friends 
would  not  be  interested?  Have  you 
asked  them?  I  suggest  that  you  do  ask 
them. 

The  people  of  the  Northwestern 
States  Mission,  where  I  presided  as  presi- 
dent during  the  year  1960,  as  well  as 
in  many  other  places,  have  found  thou- 
sands of  people  who  are  interested,  who 
they  thought  were  not  interested,  and 
this  by  merely  asking  two  important 
questions,  which  you  can  do.  First, 
"What  do  you  know  about  the  Mormon 
Church?"  And  regardless  of  their  an- 
swer, "Would  you  like  to  know  more?" 

We  found  that  approximately  two 
out  of  every  three  that  are  asked  these 
questions  say,  "No,  I  am  not  interested." 
In  that  event,  just  pass  them  off,  pos- 
sibly with  a  casual,  "Well,  maybe  some 
day  you  will  be."  But  don't  irritate 
them  or  press  the  situation.  There  are 
thousands  and  thousands  that  are  wait- 
ing and  wanting  to  hear  this  message, 
and  they  have  a  right  to  hear  it. 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS 


85 


The  one  out  of  three  who  says,  "Yes, 
I  would  like  to  know  more,"  is  the  one 
to  invite  into  your  home  for  a  group 
meeting  with  the  missionaries.  Or  if 
that  is  not  possible,  give  that  name  to 
the  missionaries.  I  personally  regularly 
ask  these  two  questions:  "What  do  you 
know  about  the  Mormon  Church?"  and 
then,  regardless  of  the  answer,  "Would 
you  like  to  know  more?" 

By  doing  this  almost  daily  I  find 
many,  many  fine  people  who  say,  "Yes, 
I  would  like  to  know  more,"  and  I  have 
never  been  embarrassed  yet  in  asking 
that  question.  I  have  turned  many, 
many  fine  referrals  over  to  our  mission- 
aries. In  fact,  there  is  hardly  a  day 
goes  by  that  I  do  not  get  a  referral  by 
asking  these  questions. 

In  asking  groups  of  members  all  over 
the  country  to  ask  these  questions, 
many  times  I  have  sensed  a  feeling  of 
skepticism,  but  almost  always  after- 
wards someone  has  written  me  or  sent 
word  to  me  saying  that  although  he 
was  doubtful  at  first,  he  tried  asking  the 
questions,  and  was  happily  surprised  to 
find  many  saying,  "Yes,  I  would  like 
to  know  more." 

The  opportunity  will  present  itself  to 
you  as  you  go  about  from  day  to  day 
if  you  are  thinking  about  it.  So  I  sug- 
gest, do  think  about  it,  and  try  it.  Let's 
assume  that  a  hundred  members  in  a 
ward  or  branch  asked  these  two  ques- 
tions only  once  every  other  day.  They 
would  ask  on  an  average  of  three  hun- 
dred a  week,  and  experience  has  shown 
that  approximately  one  out  of  every 
three  will  answer  that  he  would  like 
to  know  more.  On  this  basis  the  mis- 
sionaries would  have  about  one  hundred 
new  people  to  teach  each  week  in  that 
ward  or  branch,  probably  many  more 
than  all  of  the  full-time  and  part-time 
missionaries  could  possibly  handle. 

Keep  in  mind  also  that  the  young 
people  as  well  as  the  old  ask  these  ques- 
tions, and  the  younger  ones  do  not 
seem  to  hesitate  like  some  of  us  older 
ones.  I  have  some  remarkable  instances 
that  I  wish  I  had  time  to  tell  you  about. 
Sometime  maybe  I  can. 

Speaking  of  referrals,  I  would  like  to 
read  from  a  letter  that  I  received  just 
about  two  or  three  days  ago  from  a 
person  who  apparently  thought  I  was 
still  president  of  the  Northwestern  States 


Mission.  I  have  sent  the  letter  on  to 
President  Don  C.  Wood.  She  said: 
"Dear  President  Richards:  Ever  since  I 
joined  the  Church  three  and  a  half 
years  ago  I  have  wished  all  my  friends 
and  relatives  had  the  same  opportunity 
to  investigate  the  gospel,  and  I  have 
decided  it's  time  that  I  asked  to  have 
missionaries  sent  to  my  relatives.  Most 
of  them  seem  interested  and  curious 
about  our  Church  since  my  brother  and 
I  joined  it,  so  I  am  hoping  and  praying 
that  they  will  recognize  the  truth  when 
they  hear  it.  It  certainly  leads  to  the 
happiest  way  of  life,  and  I  know  I  could 
have  avoided  pitfalls  if  I  had  only  found 
it  sooner.  It's  wonderful  to  have  the 
true  gospel  to  guide  your  children 
through  their  lives,  and  so  dangerous  to 
try  and  raise  them  without  it."  Then 
she  listed  the  names  and  addresses  of 
twenty-five  friends  and  relatives,  saying 
she  would  appreciate  very  much  having 
the  missionaries  call  on  these  twenty-five 
people,  and  she  would  be  praying  that 
they  would  be  as  happy  to  receive  the 
gospel  message  as  she  had  been. 

As  I  left  the  Northwest  in  December, 
more  than  a  thousand  referrals  were 
passing  through  our  office  each  month, 
members  wanting  to  share  the  gospel 
with  friends  and  relatives,  knowing  the 
joy  it  would  bring  into  their  lives. 
Brethren,  this  is  the  "share  the  gospel" 
plan  at  work  through  the  referral 
system. 

I  would  like  to  say  a  few  words  about 
the  auxiliaries  as  missionary  aids.  In- 
vite your  friends  to  attend  the  auxiliary 
meetings  with  you.  I  would  say  that 
this  is  one  of  the  easier  ways  that  we 
have  of  sharing  the  gospel.  As  an  officer 
or  teacher,  or  even  a  member  of  one  of 
these  auxiliary  groups,  you  can  be  a 
missionary  by  following  this  program. 
You  and  the  members  of  your  family  not 
only  invite  these  people  but  make  ap- 
pointments to  pick  them  up  to  attend 
Sunday  School,  Relief  Society,  Mutual, 
Primary,  Sacrament  meeting,  or  any 
other  of  the  Church  meetings. 

Likewise,  you  can  take  these  people 
to  the  social  functions  being  given  by 
the  auxiliary  organizations.  They  offer 
very  pleasant  occasions  for  these  non- 
members,  and  when  they  come  to  feel 
the  warmth  and  friendship  that  they 
find  in  this  association,  they  are  much 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  8 

more  susceptible  to  the  teachings  of  the 
gospel. 

This  is  a  very  practical  way  that  you 
can  participate.  A  striking  example  of 
this  is  an  incident  that  happened  last 
year  in  the  Northwest.  Sister  Freeman, 
a  convert  of  about  two  years,  was  serv- 
ing as  president  of  the  Relief  Society  in 
one  of  the  branches.  There  had  been 
no  missionaries  in  this  branch  for  some 
time.  In  the  spring,  we  discussed  the 
"share  the  gospel"  plan  with  the  mem- 
bers of  the  branch,  and  we  sent  two 
missionaries  in  with  instructions  to  use 
the  "share  the  gospel"  program.  Soon 
after  they  arrived,  they  got  in  touch 
with  Sister  Freeman,  and  she  wrote  to 
me  saying  this:  "A  special  thanks  for 
sending  these  fine  missionaries  to  our 
branch.  We  are  thrilled  and  very  thank- 
ful, and  we  are  reorganizing  our  visiting 
teachers  so  that  the  presidency  will  be 
free  to  visit  any  contacts  that  the  mis- 
sionaries ask  us  to." 

About  six  months  later  I  was  inter- 
viewing one  of  the  elders  working  in 
the  area.  I  asked  him  how  things  were 
going  in  the  branch.  He  said,  "Simply 
great.  Do  you  know  how  many  non- 
member  women  were  out  to  the  open- 
ing Relief  Society  meeting  in  the 
branch?"  I  guessed  six  or  eight,  which 
I  thought  would  be  pretty  good.  He 
said,  "Thirty-fourl"  This,  brethren,  is 
the  "share  the  gospel"  plan  in  action 
in  the  Relief  Society.  Thanks  to  Sister 
Freeman  and  her  fine  members,  be- 
cause of  this  activity  many  wonderful 
members  are  now  enjoying  the  benefits 
of  the  gospel. 

As  a  result  of  the  "share  the  gospel" 
plan,  actually  thousands  of  people  are 
being  brought  into  the  Church  every 
month.  The  effectiveness  of  this  plan 
is  especially  impressive  in  the  North- 
western States  Mission,  where  we 
adopted  it  early  last  year.  By  the  mem- 
bers of  the  stakes  and  districts  working 
with  the  full-time  missionaries,  775 
converts  were  baptized  in  January  and 
February  of  this  year,  compared  with 
106  a  year  ago — nearly  seven  and  a  half 
times  as  many.  This  figure  does  not 
include  many  more  baptisms  by  stake 
missionaries. 

In  the  eight  eastern  United  States 
and  Canadian  missions  that  Sister  Rich- 


Second  Day 

ards  and  I  visited  during  January,  Feb- 
ruary, and  March  of  this  year,  the 
"share  the  gospel"  plan  has  been  intro- 
duced, and  the  number  of  baptisms  so 
far  this  year  is  approximately  double 
that  of  a  year  ago  for  a  comparable 
period.  But  amazing  as  these  figures 
sound  and  are,  the  important  thing  is 
that  a  great  many  more  of  God's  chil- 
dren are  enjoying  the  blessings  of  the 
gospel  than  otherwise  might  be. 

And  what  is  our  responsibility?  It  is 
to  give  every  one  of  God's  children  the 
opportunity  of  enjoying  the  blessings 
of  immortality  and  eternal  life.  As 
Jesus  said  to  Nicodemus,  a  ruler  of  the 
Jews,  ".  .  .  Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto 
thee,  Except  a  man  be  born  of  water 
and  of  the  Spirit,  he  cannot  enter  into 
the  kingdom  of  God."  (John  3:5.) 

Yes,  baptism  is  necessary,  and  we 
must  be  baptism  conscious.  On  several 
occasions  bishops  and  branch  presi- 
dents have  said  to  me,  "President,  hav- 
ing all  of  these  people  coming  into  the 
Church  is  wonderful.  We  need  them." 
But  also  another  great  blessing  is  re- 
ceived by  members  participating  in  this 
"share  the  gospel"  plan.  Many  who  had 
been  relatively  inactive  became  active 
again.  An  increased  spirituality  is  defi- 
nitely noticeable  among  the  ward  mem- 
bers who  are  sharing.  It  is  like  love,  as 
you  give  it  to  others  it  increases  in 
yourself. 

Further,  by  members  sharing  the  gos- 
pel with  friends  a  great  many  very  fine 
converts  are  coming  into  the  Church, 
many  who  are  making  wonderful 
leaders  almost  immediately  after  bap- 
tism. 

Brethren,  remember  the  word  of  the 
Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph:  "And  if  it 
so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your 
days  in  crying  repentance  unto  this  peo- 
ple, and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul  unto 
me,  how  great  shall  be  your  joy  with 
him  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Fatherl 

"And  now,  if  your  joy  will  be  great 
with  one  soul  that  you  have  brought 
unto  me  into  the  kingdom  of  my  Father, 
how  great  will  be  your  joy  if  you  should 
bring  many  souls  unto  me!"  (D&C 
18:15-16.) 

Yes,  the  "share  the  gospel"  plan  is 
really  here.  Every  member  of  the 
Church  a  missionary!   This  also  means 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 


87 


group  teaching  to  a  very  large  extent,  and 
this  plan  is  very  simple  and  extremely 
effective.  President  Moyle  has  said: 
"We  can  go  out  into  the  mission  field, 
we  can  go  out  into  the  world,  we  can 
go  into  our  lives,  and  accomplish  any- 
thing that  we  desire  to  accomplish. 
Whenever  the  Lord  calls  upon  us  to 
do  anything,  he  makes  us  equal  to  the 
task." 

I  know  this  is  true.  Let  everyone  of 
us  be  a  missionary.  It  is  wonderful. 
And  may  we  have  the  faith  and  the 
determination  and  the  courage  to  make 


this  "share  the  gospel"  plan  an  effective 
vehicle  in  bringing  great  numbers  of 
souls  into  the  kingdom  of  God.  Let  us 
always  keep  in  mind  that  the  purpose 
of  missionary  work  is  to  bring  souls 
into  the  kingdom  of  God  through  the 
ordinance  of  baptism. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  to  this  end,  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us. 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brethren,  I  count  this  a  great 
privilege  and  a  great  opportunity.  I 
feel  the  weight  of  this  responsibility  and 
seek  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord.  As  I 
envision  the  vast  network  of  Church 
buildings,  285  of  them  reaching  all  the 
way  to  New  Zealand  across  an  expanse 
of  12,000  miles,  with  thousands  upon 
thousands  of  men  and  boys  who  are 
assembled  tonight,  I  think  of  Wilford 
Woodruffs  story  of  the  first  meeting 
that  he  attended  with  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith. 

On  a  Sunday  morning  in  1834  in  Rut- 
land, Ohio,  all  of  the  priesthood  were 
called  together.  They  met  in  a  little, 
rough  log  cabin.  Hyrum  Smith,  Oliver 
Cowdery,  Brigham  Young,  Heber  C. 
Kimball,  Parley  and  Orson  Pratt,  and 
William  E.  M'Lellin  all  spoke,  and  then 
Joseph  spoke  and  said:  "I  want  to  tell 
you  this:  You  know  no  more  concerning 
the  results  of  this  work  and  what  lies 
before  you  as  elders  of  Israel,  and  before 
this  people,  than  a  group  of  children." 
He  then  went  on  to  say  that  this  work 
will  fill  the  whole  earth,  and  all  nations 
will  have  to  hear  the  proclamation  of 
the  gospel.  (Mill.  Star,  Vol.  54,  p.  605.) 

Were  those  men  here  tonight  they 
would  marvel  at  the  accomplishments 
that  have  been  wrought.  Never  has  the 
work  of  teaching  the  gospel  moved  so 
splendidly  forward  as  it  is  moving  today. 
Never  before  was  so  much  being  ac- 
complished. I  think  you  may  be  in- 
terested to  know  that  during  the  ten 
years  that  President  McKay  has  stood 


as  President  of  the  Church,  more  than 
24,000  full-time  missionaries  have  gone 
into  the  field,  notwithstanding  the  fact 
that  many  of  our  young  men  were  pro- 
hibited from  going  because  of  military 
problems  beyond  their  control.  During 
this  same  period  more  than  261,000  con- 
verts have  been  baptized  into  the 
Church.  I  can  think  of  no  more  fitting 
memorial  to  the  marvelous  work  of  our 
great  missionary  President  than  the  fact 
that  in  these  last  ten  years  more  than  a 
quarter  of  a  million  people  have  entered 
the  waters  of  baptism.  There  were 
48,500  plus  last  year,  the  equivalent  of 
ten  or  twelve  average  stakes,  and  a  hun- 
dred wards. 

We  now  have  approximately  8,500 
missionaries  in  the  field  who  are  work- 
ing, I  think,  as  missionaries  have  never 
worked  before,  averaging  210  hours  a 
month  of  actual  proselyting  per  mission- 
ary. We  have  approximately  seven 
thousand  additional  missionaries  in  the 
stakes.  But  with  all  of  these,  "the 
laborers  are  few  and  the  harvest  is 
great."  (See  Luke  10:2.) 

". .  .  Lift  up  your  eyes,  and  look  on  the 
fields;  for  they  are  white  already  to 
harvest."  (John  4:35.) 

I  believe,  my  brethren,  with  all  my 
heart  that  the  field  is  white  ready  to 
harvest.  We  had  nearly  50,000  baptisms 
last  year.  I  think  it  not  at  all  un- 
realistic to  believe  that  we  could  have 
100,000  converts  a  year  in  the  Church  if 
all  of  us  were  alert  to  the  opportunities 
that  are  about  us  and  would  go  to  work 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  8 

accordingly.  I  think  the  answer  to  the 
increased  number  of  converts  does  not 
lie  particularly  in  our  methods — effective 
as  those  methods  are.  Rather,  I  think 
we  are  living  in  the  day  of  the  fulfil- 
ment of  the  word  of  the  Lord  given 
through  the  Prophet  Joel,  and  repeated 
by  Moroni  in  his  first  visitation  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph. 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  afterward, 
that  I  will  pour  out  my  Spirit  upon  all 
flesh  "  (Joel  2:28.) 

I  believe,  my  brethren,  that  we  are 
living  in  the  day  when  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  is  being  poured  out  upon  all  flesh. 

To  Peter,  Jesus  said, 

".  .  .  Simon,  Simon,  behold  Satan  hath 
desired  to  have  you,  that  he  may  sift 
you  as  wheat: 

"But  I  have  prayed  for  thee,  that  thy 
faith  fail  not:  and  when  thou  art  con- 
verted, strengthen  thy  brethren."  (Luke 
22:31-32.)  I  believe,  my  brethren,  that 
that  great  admonition  applies  to  the  men 
of  the  priesthood  of  the  Church  of 
Christ:  ".  .  .  when  thou  art  converted, 
strengthen  thy  brethren."  When  thou 
art  converted,  go  thou  and  convert  thy 
brethren.    This  is  our  responsibility. 

What  will  it  take  to  do  it? 

First,  it  will  take  an  awareness  of  our 
responsibility  and  our  opportunity. 
Great  and  magnificent  as  is  the  work 
of  the  more  than  15,000  missionaries 
who  have  been  set  apart,  I  am  con- 
vinced that  we  have  a  far  greater  force 
for  teaching  the  gospel  to  the  world 
in  the  membership  of  the  Church — 
"every  man  a  missionary" — as  has  been 
said  here  so  convincingly  tonight. 
"Every  man  a  missionary!" 

Anyone  can  do  this,  whether  you're 
rich  or  poor,  whether  you're  bond  or 
free.  I  think  every  member  of  the  Church 
has  the  capacity  to  teach  the  gos- 
pel to  nonmembers.  I  was  told  the 
other  day  of  a  crippled  woman,  home- 
bound,  who  spends  her  days  in  a  wheel- 
chair, who  has  been  the  means  of 
bringing  thirty-seven  people  into  the 
Church.  An  awareness,  brethren,  we  need 
an  awareness,  an  everyday  awareness  of 
the  great  power  that  we  have  to  do  this 
thing. 

Second,  a  desire.  I  think  many  of  us 
realize  that  we  could  do  it,  but  we 
lack  the  desire.  Let  every  man  single 
out  another,  a  friend.    Let  him  get  on 


Second  Day 

his  knees  and  pray  to  the  Lord  to  help 
him  bring  that  man  into  the  Church. 
I  am  as  satisfied  as  I  am  of  anything 
that  with  that  kind  of  prayerful,  con- 
scientious, directed  effort,  there  isn't  a 
man  in  this  Church  who  could  not  con- 
vert another.  I  think  of  a  phrase  that 
has  been  quoted  by  Brother  Richard  L. 
Evans:  "If  not  I,  who?  If  not  now, 
when?"   I  leave  that  thought  with  you. 

Third,  the  faith  to  try.  It  is  so  sim- 
ple. As  Brother  Franklin  D.  Richards 
has  pointed  out,  this  is  not  complex. 
It  is  simple.  We  have  in  the  Northern 
Far  East  Mission  of  the  Church  today  a 
beautiful  and  capable  Japanese  girl, 
born  in  Honolulu.  I  said  to  her,  "Were 
your  folks  members  of  the  Church?" 
"No,  they  were  Buddhists."  "How  is  it 
then  that  you  are  here?"  She  said,  "I 
had  a  high  school  friend  who  took  me 
to  Mutual  once  a  week  and  then  gave 
me  a  tract  to  read."  That  girl  went  on 
to  the  University  of  Hawaii  and  then  to 
Illinois  Wesleyan  University,  from 
which  school  she  was  graduated.  Today 
she  is  a  missionary  in  Japan. 

The  average  missionary  in  Japan 
brings  approximately  seven  people  a 
year  into  the  Church.  That  means 
that  if  she  is  just  average  she  will  be  the 
means  of  bringing  about  fourteen  people 
into  the  Church.  Now  if  each  of  those 
fourteen  were  to  bring  another  fourteen 
people  into  the  Church  and  so  on,  it  is 
easy  to  see  how  the  gospel  might  spread 
through  that  land  of  a  hundred  million 
people. 

We  have  in  one  of  our  great  universi- 
ties a  professor,  a  doctor  in  science, 
who  spends  his  noon  hours  discussing 
the  gospel  with  his  associates,  to  whom 
he  had  said  in  effect:  "What  do  you 
know  about  the  Mormons?  Would  you 
like  to  learn  more?"  They  are  learning 
more. 

I  want  to  tell  of  one  more  instance. 
We  had  speaking  recently  in  a  stake 
conference  a  lovely  eighteen  or  nine- 
teen-year-old girl  who  had  joined  the 
Church.  She  stood  up  and  in  substance 
said,  "My  father  was  a  minister.  His 
father  was  a  minister.  My  mother's 
father  was  a  minister.  In  fact,  my  father 
was  the  minister  of  the  church  just 
down  around  the  corner.  A  school 
friend  of  mine  took  me  to  Mutual.  Then 


ELDER  GORDC 

she  brought  me  to  Sacrament  meeting. 
Then  she  said,  'Couldn't  I  invite  the 
missionaries  to  come  to  your  home  and 
teach  you?'" 

"I  replied  with  astonishment,  'To  my 
home,  with  my  father  pastor  of  the 
church  around  the  corner?' "  The 
friend  suggested  she  ask  her  father.  So 
the  girl  went  to  her  father,  and  he  con- 
sented. The  missionaries  met  with 
her  in  one  room  while  her  father  lis- 
tened in  another.  She  has  joined  the 
Church,  and  her  father  has  resigned  his 
pastorate  and  is  now  teaching  in  a  Cali- 
fornia school. 

I  say  all  of  this  only  to  illustrate  the 
point  which  was  made  by  Brother  Rich- 
ards here  tonight  that  the  capacity  lies 
within  our  young  people  by  the  tens  and 
tens  of  thousands  to  bring  their  friends 
into  the  fold  of  the  Church. 

I  have  here  a  letter  that  I  picked  off 
my  desk.  It  came  from  a  friend,  a  law- 
yer who  works  in  a  large  bank.  He 
writes:  "I  set  a  goal  of  at  least  one 
referral  per  week.  Thus  far  there  have 
been  numerous  opportunities  to  make 
appointments.  With  over  1,000  em- 
ployees at  the  main  office  of  the  bank, 
the  chances  of  success  are  good." 

The  faith  to  try!  It  is  so  simple! 
And  then  after  that  will  come  the  joy 
which  has  been  promised  of  the  Lord. 
I  know  of  no  other  work  where  the 
Lord  has  given  so  great  a  promise  of 
joy  to  those  who  engage  in  it. 

May  I  take  a  minute  or  two  to  share 
with  you  a  testimony — and  I  hope  you 
will  not  consider  this  egotistical,  but 
consider  it  rather  in  the  spirit  in  which 
it  is  given.  I  was  flying  across  the  ocean 
on  one  occasion,  and  I  resolved  I  would 
try  to  discuss  the  gospel  with  someone 
on  that  plane.  We  had  been  flying 
all  night,  morning  was  coming,  and  I 
began  a  conversation  with  a  man  across 
the  aisle.  I  asked  him  where  he  was 
from.  He  said  he  was  from  Newark. 
He  asked,  "Where  are  you  from?"  I 
said,  "Salt  Lake."  He  said,  "Are  you 
a  Mormon?"  and  I  said,  "Yes."  He 
said,  "I  thought  so.  You've  had  more 
orange  juice  than  everybody  else  on 
this  plane  put  together."  Well,  he 
hasn't  joined  the  Church  yet,  but 
he  has  read  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  he 
has  read  LeGrand  Richards'  book  and 


7  B.  HINCKLEY  89 

two  or  three  other  books,  and  he  has 
invited  the  missionaries  to  come  and 
speak  before  the  service  club  of  which 
he  is  an  officer.  I  think  no  one  can 
foretell  the  eventual  consequence  of  that 
conversation. 

I  had  an  interesting  experience  while 
going  to  the  Orient  last  year.  When 
I  checked  in  in  San  Francisco,  the  man 
examined  my  passport  and  inquired 
about  my  business.  I  said,  "I  am 
going  to  represent  the  Mormon  Church. 
Do  you  know  anything  about  the 
Mormons?"  "Oh,"  he  said,  "I  know 
a  little.  My  wife's  a  Mormon."  "Has 
she  ever  told  you  anything  about 
the  Church?"  I  asked  him.  He  said, 
"Very  little.  She  is  rather  backward 
about  talking  about  it."  "Where  does 
she  come  from?"  And  he  told  me,  and 
I  said,  "Your  wife  comes  from  wonder- 
ful people,  great  stock,  pioneer  stock. 
Wouldn't  you  like  to  know  something 
about  the  faith  of  your  wife's  people?" 
And  he  said,  "Yes."  I  said,  "How  about 
next  Thursday  night  at  seven  o'clock? 
Will  you  spend  an  hour?"  And  he  said, 
"Yes."  He  handed  me  his  card.  Presi- 
dent Warren  E.  Pugh  of  the  Northern 
California  Mission  was  there,  and  we 
arranged  an  appointment.  Eight  weeks 
later  I  had  a  letter  from  President  Pugh 
to  say  that  that  man  had  joined  the 
Church. 

Now,  I  give  you  those  instances, 
brethren,  by  way  of  testimony.  I  think 
I  have  known  a  little  of  the  joy  of  which 
the  Lord  spoke,  and  concerning  which 
he  gave  promise. 

You  never  know  how  much  good  you 
can  do  until  you  try.  You  never  can 
judge  the  consequences  of  your  work. 
I  have  been  in  Korea,  in  that  rough, 
sad,  poverty-stricken  land,  which  has 
seen  so  much  of  sorrow.  We  have  today 
nearly  a  thousand  members  there.  They 
are  wonderful  people.  Last  year  the 
missionaries  in  Korea  averaged  fourteen 
converts  per  missionary,  and  eighty  per- 
cent of  them  were  university  students  or 
university  graduates. 

That  marvelous  work  in  Korea  is 
largely  the  lengthened  shadow  of  one 
man,  Dr.  Ho  Jik  Kim,  who  was  a  student 
at  Cornell  University  fifteen  years  ago. 
A  fellow  student,  a  Mormon  boy  by  the 
name  of  Oliver  Wayman,  began  to  talk 


90 

Saturday,  April  8 

to  him  about  Mormonism.  When  Elder 
Wayman  left,  another  Mormon  boy  by 
the  name  of  Don  Wood,  who  went 
there  to  study  bio-chemistry,  became 
friendly  with  this  Korean  student. 

Dr.  Kim  joined  the  Church,  and  he 
went  back  to  Korea.  He  undertook  to 
translate  the  Book  of  Mormon.  He  be- 
came a  tremendous  strength  to  the  work 
there.  He  rose  to  high  positions  of 
leadership  in  the  government,  and  the 
stature  which  the  Church  now  has  in 
Korea  is  largely  the  result  of  that.  Don 
C.  Wood  today  is  president  of  the  North- 
western States  Mission.  With  all  that 
he  will  do  as  president  of  that  mission, 
directing  the  work  of  150  missionaries, 
I  do  not  know  that  he  will  do  anything 
more  significant  than  he  did  when  he 
was  a  student  at  Cornell,  walking  arm 
in  arm  with  a  young  man  from  Korea 
over  to  our  little  meetings,  and  then 
coming  back  and  explaining  the  gospel 
to  him  and  encouraging  him  to  read 
the  Book  of  Mormon. 

Brethren,  the  power  lies  within  us  to 
spread  the  Lord's  work.  "...  I  am  not 
ashamed  of  the  gospel  of  Christ:  for  it 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  .  .  ." 
(Romans  1:16.)  I  give  you  my  testi- 
mony of  this  work,  of  its  divinity,  and 
of  the  responsibility  which  lies  upon  us 
to  spread  it  throughout  the  earth  to  fill 
its  divine  mission,  and  urge  you,  my 
brethren,  every  one  of  you,  young  or 
old,  rich  or  poor,  professional  man, 
clerk,  or  laborer,  to  work  with  your 
associates  to  build  the  kingdom,  all  of 
which  I  do  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  be  favored  by  a  solo 
from  Brother  Dennis  Clancy  from 
Scotland,  "I  Know  That  My  Redeemer 
Lives." 

Vocal  solo,  "I  Know  That  My  Re- 
deemer Lives,"  by  Dennis  Clancy. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Thank  you,  Brother  Clancy.  Our 
next  speaker  is  Brother  Mark  E.  Petersen. 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  am  very  grateful,  my  brethren,  to  have 
the  privilege  of  speaking  with  you 
shortly  tonight.  I  am  very  thankful  for 
this  glorious  song  ["I  Know  that  My 
Redeemer  Lives"  sung  by  Dennis 
Clancy,  a  Scotsman]  we  have  just  heard. 
I  am  sure  it  has  made  each  one  of  us 
thrill  with  the  testimony  that  we  have 
of  the  divinity  of  the  Savior  and  of  our 
great  love  for  him.  I  am  sure,  too, 
that  you  have  been  greatly  delighted 
and  benefited  by  these  illuminating  and 
stimulating  addresses  that  have  been 
given  by  Brother  [Franklin  D.]  Richards 
and  Brother  [Gordon  B.]  Hinckley  on 
our  missionary  program. 

I  would  like  to  talk  with  you  for  a 
few  moments  about  another  phase  of 
this  missionary  program.  I  have  in 
mind  the  responsibility  we  have  of  fel- 
lowshiping  our  new  members.  I  have 
often  thought  that  instruction  in  the 
gospel  without  fellowship  in  the  Church 
is  as  incomplete  as  baptism  without  con- 


firmation. It  is  utter  folly  for  us  to 
avoid  or  ignore  the  responsibility  we 
have  of  properly  fellowshiping  those 
who  are  brought  into  the  Church. 

I  have  been  impressed  with  one  other 
thing,  too,  about  our  missionary  pro- 
gram, and  that  is  that  conversion  cannot 
be  limited  only  to  instruction  in  the  gos- 
pel doctrines.  Conversion  must  include 
an  acceptance  of  us  as  a  people  and  an 
acceptance  of  our  way  of  life  and  of 
our  mode  of  worship.  How  can  a  per- 
son be  fully  converted  to  us  and  our 
work  just  by  studying  the  Bible  or  any 
of  the  scriptures?  The  people  must  come 
into  our  meetings;  they  must  become 
a  part  of  us;  they  must  see  what  we  are 
doing.  We  must  assimilate  them.  We 
must  make  them  a  part  of  us,  and  when 
we  do  that,  then  they  really  become 
converted  and  help  to  build  the  king- 
dom. 

You  remember  how  Paul  wrote  to  the 
Ephesians:  "Now  therefore  ye  are  no 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


91 


more  strangers  and  foreigners,  but  fel- 
low citizens  with  the  saints,  and  of  the 
household  of  God."  (Eph.  2:19.)  They, 
very  obviously,  had  a  fellowship  pro- 
gram in  that  day.  It  was  very  necessary 
that  the  new  converts  Paul  and  his 
associates  made  should  be  fellowshiped 
with  the  rest  of  the  Saints,  and  it  was 
all-important  that  the  rest  of  the  Saints 
be  willing  to  fellowship  them  and  take 
them  into  their  arms  and  make  them  a 
part  of  them. 

Unfortunately,  at  times  we  have 
missed  out  on  that  in  our  day.  I  have 
sometimes  thought  as  I  have  heard 
some  of  the  stories  I  have  listened  to  that 
we  almost  had  established  an  Iron  Cur- 
tain in  some  areas.  There  can  be  no 
Iron  Curtains  in  this  Church.  When 
the  people  are  brought  into  the  Church, 
we  must  receive  them,  and  we  must  do 
more  than  merely  shake  hands  with 
them  and  say,  "How  do  you  do."  We 
must  make  them  a  part  of  our  organiza- 
tions. They  must  fit  into  our  program. 
We  must  assign  them  activities.  They 
must  learn  early  to  help  build  the 
kingdom. 

Now,  as  I  see  this  fellowship  program 
with  respect  to  the  missions,  it  begins 
with  the  missionaries.  The  missionaries 
themselves,  whether  stake  or  full-time, 
must  begin  the  fellowship  program  by 
bringing  their  new  investigators  into 
our  Church  meetings  as  early  in  the 
teaching  process  as  is  possible  so  that 
the  new  investigators  may  be  introduced 
to  the  bishopric,  may  be  introduced  to 
others  in  the  ward,  may  see  our  way  of 
conducting  our  worship,  may  see  the 
class  of  people  we  have  in  our  member- 
ship, may  get  the  feel  and  the  spirit 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  That  is  a 
part  of  the  conversion  process,  and  as 
the  missionaries  do  that,  they  will  find 
that  it  will  be  easier  to  teach  them. 

Then  also,  as  early  as  possible  in  the 
teaching  process,  it  is  all-important  that 
the  co-ordinator  couples  whom  you  have 
been  asked  to  appoint  be  introduced  to 
these  investigators  so  that  they  may  be- 
come "friends  in  court,"  so  to  speak, 
and  then  when  the  time  for  baptism 
arrives,  that  this  co-ordinator  couple  be 
present  at  the  baptism  and  be  there  to 
help  welcome  them  into  the  Church  and 
to  help  them  in  the  process  of  further 
assimilation. 


The  First  Presidency  have  told  us 
that,  whenever  it  is  feasible,  our  new 
converts  should  be  confirmed  in  the 
Fast  meeting.  If  it  is  not  feasible  then 
the  new  convert  being  baptized  should 
be  confirmed,  as  we  say,  at  the  water's 
edge.  But  where  it  is  possible  to  have 
it  arranged  for  the  Fast  meeting,  the 
confirmation  act  may  become  a  beauti- 
ful act  of  assimilation. 

I  have  thought  often  that  it  would  be 
wonderful  if,  when  the  time  of  confirma- 
tion arrived,  and  it  was  in  the  Fast 
meeting,  the  bishop  would  announce  to 
the  congregation,  "Brothers  and  sisters, 
we  have  the  missionaries  with  us  here 
this  afternoon.  Yesterday,  they  baptized 
the  family  of  Brother  and  Sister  John 
Jones.  We  are  now  ready  to  welcome 
them  into  the  Church  by  confirming 
them  members  of  the  Church.  We 
would  like  to  invite  the  missionaries  to 
come  forward  now  and  join  us  in  the 
circle." 

I  have  thought  what  a  wonderful 
thing  it  would  be  if  the  three  members 
of  the  bishopric  and  the  missionaries 
who  were  there  would  stand  together 
in  the  circle  and  then  call  Brother  John 
Jones  to  take  the  chair.  The  bishopric 
and  the  elders  jointly  would  lay  their 
hands  upon  his  head  while  one  of  the 
missionaries  actually  was  voice  in  the 
confirmation. 

And  I  have  thought  what  a  wonderful 
thing  it  would  be  after  that  if  the 
bishop  would  reach  out  his  hand  and 
welcome  Brother  Jones  and  extend  him 
the  hand  of  fellowship.  Then  the  other 
members  of  the  family  would  be  con- 
firmed and  welcomed  in  the  same  way. 

I  think  it  would  be  wonderful  after 
the  confirmation  of  a  family  of  that 
kind  for  the  missionaries  to  present  to 
the  bishop  then  and  there,  the  certifi- 
cate of  baptism  and  confirmation  for 
each  and  for  the  bishop  to  stand  up  in 
the  Fast  meeting,  and  say,  "We  have  all 
now  witnessed  the  confirmation  of  the 
family  of  Brother  and  Sister  John  Jones. 
We  have  their  certificates  of  baptism 
and  confirmation.  All  who  are  willing 
to  receive  them  now  as  members  of  our 
ward  and  full-fledged  members  of  our 
Church,  will  you  signify?" 

I  would  like  to  see  them  actually  vote 
to  bring  them  in  just  as  if  they  were 
new  members  moving  in  from  another 


92 

Scturday,  April  8 

ward  or  another  stake.  It  is  a  part  of 
the  assimilation  process.  It  makes  these 
people  feel  more  a  part  of  things. 

Then  I  would  like  to  see  the  brother 
in  charge  of  the  Senior  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood work  in  the  ward  approach  this 
newly  baptized  and  confirmed  brother 
at  the  close  of  the  Fast  meeting  and 
say,  "Brother  Jones,  I  am  Brother 
Smith,  and  I  have  charge  of  the  senior 
work  for  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  in  this 
ward.  Now  that  you  are  a  member  of 
the  Church  you  become  automatically 
eligible  to  join  the  work  for  the  senior 
brethren  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  Our 
meeting  will  be  held  next  Sunday 
morning  at  9:30.  I  would  like  to  come 
for  you  next  Sunday  about  9:15  and 
bring  you  to  this  first  meeting  and  in- 
troduce you  there  to  the  rest  of  the 
members  so  that  you  can  begin  to  feel 
a  part  of  our  group." 

I  believe  that  as  soon  as  feasible,  that 
man  should  be  ordained  a  deacon  in 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood  so  that  he  will 
have  the  sense  of  belonging,  so  that  he 
will  feel  a  part  of  the  priesthood.  If  he 
is  worthy  to  be  baptized,  surely 
he  should  be  worthy  to  be  ordained  to 
the  priesthood. 

All  of  this  is  part  of  the  assimilation 
process.  I  believe,  if  I  may  go  back  a 
few  steps,  that  it  would  be  a  wonderful 
thing  for  the  Relief  Society  people  to 
be  brought  into  the  assimilation  pro- 
gram even  before  baptism.  Is  there 
any  reason  why  Sister  Jones,  the  in- 
vestigator, could  not  be  invited  to  come 
to  Relief  Society  and  be  escorted  there 
by  one  of  the  class  leaders,  or  by  one 
of  the  officers  in  the  Relief  Society?  And 
then  as  she  is  baptized,  she  is  already 
in  the  habit  of  coming  to  Relief  Society. 
She  will  just  continue  on.  It  eases  the 
process  of  transition.  She  is  already  in 
the  Relief  Society.  She  will  now  con- 
tinue to  be  in  the  Relief  Society. 

The  same  thing  is  true  with  the  Sun- 
day School  and  with  the  Sacrament 
meeting.  The  missionaries  and  the  co- 
ordinating couple  will  introduce  these 
people  to  the  Sunday  School  and  to  the 
Sacrament  meeting  even  before  baptism. 
They  will  begin  to  get  them  into  the 
habit  of  coming.  The  transition  is  made 
easy  because  they  continue  doing  the 
things  they  have  already  been  doing.  And 
likewise  with  the  Primary  and  the  MIA. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

They  are  some  of  the  finest  missionary 
organizations  we  have  in  the  whole 
Church  and  have  brought  thousands  of 
people  into  the  Church.  Their  contacts 
may  well  begin  before  baptism. 

If  we  all  work  together,  not  only  on 
the  conversion  process  but  also  on  the 
fellowship  process,  we  will  hold  on  to 
our  converts.  But  would  it  not  be  a  ter- 
rible tragedy  if  we  were  to  bring  thou- 
sands into  the  Church  and  then  lose 
a  number  of  them  because  we  failed  to 
do  our  work  in  fellowshiping  these  new 
people  as  they  come  in? 

Brethren  of  the  priesthood,  I  appeal  to 
you.  Fellowship  these  new  people.  Let 
them  feel  a  part  of  us.  Let  them  fit 
into  our  organizations.  As  they  grow  in 
faith,  they  will  want  to  grow  in  works. 
We  must  all  remember  that  faith  with- 
out works  is  dead.  It  is  so  true  of  our 
assimilation  or  fellowship  program. 
These  people  may  be  full  of  faith  as 
they  come  into  the  Church,  but  if  they 
are  left  without  works  or  activity  will 
their  faith  not  die? 

I  talked  with  one  couple  one  time 
who  complained  because  they  had  been 
told  by  the  bishop  that  they  could  not 
be  assigned  to  any  work  for  six  months 
after  baptism,  and  I  thought  what  a 
tragedy.  Faith  without  works  is  dead, 
and  faith  without  activity  can  die  in 
new  converts.  Therefore  we  need  to 
give  them  work.  We  need  to  give  them 
activity. 

Now,  if  I  may  take  just  a  moment  or 
two  more,  I  would  like  to  talk  about 
another  phase  of  this  fellowship  pro- 
gram. The  fellowship  program  has  been 
marvelously  successful  with  respect  to 
new  converts  through  the  missionary 
program.  Brethren,  it  can  be  equally 
successful  with  respect  to  the  reactiva- 
tion program.  As  people  are  being  re- 
activated into  the  Church,  again  we 
must  learn  to  fellowship  them,  just  as 
we  will  fellowship  new  converts.  The 
reactivated  are  just  as  much  in  need  of 
feeling  a  part  of  things  as  the  new 
convert,  and  there  are  many  reactivated 
people  who  will  feel  just  as  strange 
in  the  Church  surroundings  as  will  a 
new  convert.  Some  of  them  may  feel 
more  strange  because  they  have  a  past 
record  that  would  make  them  feel  ill 
at  ease  as  they  come  into  the  meetings. 

And  as  they  are  reactivated,  are  they 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


93 


going  to  be  left  cold,  off  to  themselves? 
If  we  are  going  to  erect  an  Iron  Curtain 
against  a  man  just  because  he  happens 
to  smell  of  cigarets,  are  we  going  to 
convert  him  to  the  gospel?  We  must 
fellowship  the  reactivated  ones  just  as 
much  as  we  need  to  fellowship  the 
newly  converted  ones. 

So  I  invite  your  attention,  brethren, 
to  a  twofold  fellowship  program  in  the 
Church:  first,  a  sincere  effort  to  fellow- 
ship all  these  new  converts  who  are 
coming  in;  and  second,  a  sincere  effort 
to  fellowship  the  reactivated  ones  as  we 
bring  them  in.  Fellowship  means  salva- 
tion. Without  it  we  may  lose  these 
reactivated  ones,  and  we  may  lose  our 
new  converts. 

So  brethren,  let  us  organize  into  a 
great  fellowship  movement.  Let  us  hold 
out  the  hand  of  fellowship  to  every  one 
of  these  reactivated  ones,  and  the  new 
converts.  Let  us  fellowship  them 
through  the  organizations  and  make 


them  a  part  of  us  because  the  Lord  so 
directs.  They  are  to  be  ".  .  .  fellow 
citizens  with  the  saints,  and  of  the 
household  of  God." 

That  we  may  accomplish  this  is  my 
humble  and  earnest  desire  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Male  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Elder  Richard  P.  Condie  con- 
ducting, will  now  sing,  "Do  What  Is 
Right."  The  congregation  will  join  in 
the  chorus. 


The  Men's  Chorus  and  the  congrega- 
tion sang,  "Do  What  Is  Right." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  now  speak  to  us, 
and  he  must  not  cut  his  remarks  short. 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


It  was  my  great  pleasure  fifty-two  years 
ago  to  be  met  by  the  President's  younger 
brother,  William  M.  McKay,  in  Zurich, 
Switzerland.  It  was  he  who  was  the 
district  president  at  that  time  in  Zurich, 
and  it  was  also  he  who  taught  me  a 
good  deal  about  missionary  work  that 
has  stayed  with  me  until  this  day.  At 
that  time  my  mission  president  was 
Thomas  E.  McKay,  under  whom  I 
served  throughout  my  mission. 

I  was  very  happy  last  evening,  or  the 
evening  before,  to  pick  up  the  April 
issue  of  The  Improvement  Era  and  find 
that  the  father  of  these  three  great  men 
went  on  a  mission  in  1881,  when  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay  was  seven,  and 
his  brother,  Thomas  E.  McKay,  was 
five.  He  also  left  his  beloved  wife. 
Near  the  conclusion  of  his  mission  he 
wrote  a  letter.  It  was  dated  February 
12,  1883,  and  was  to  John  Henry  Smith, 
president  at  that  time  of  the  European 
and  of  the  British  Missions.  I  am  sure 
that  that  letter,  which  was  published 
at  the  time  in  the  Millennial  Star  of 


March  12,  1883,  is  as  inspirational  to 
us  this  evening  as  it  was  when  it  was 
written  by  the  wonderful  father  of 
these  great  men. 

I  read  but  a  part,  because  I  want  you 
all  to  read  the  entire  article:  "The  spirit 
of  gathering  appears  to  be  increasing 
among  the  Saints,  causing  them  to  draw 
near  to  their  Heavenly  Father  and  to 
each  other.  This  manifest  increase  of 
faith  and  good  works  among  the  Saints 
is  being  felt  for  good,  throughout  the 
circle  that  the  worthy  Saints  move  in, 
among  the  honest  in  heart.  Baptisms 
are  becoming  more  frequent.  The  num- 
ber of  our  traveling  elders  has  been 
reduced  somewhat,  but  no  doubt  Presi- 
dent Smith  will  remember  Scotland 
when  wisdom  dictates  to  send  us  more 
help."  That  is  one  of  the  classic  sen- 
tences in  Mormon  literature.  I  want 
to  read  it  again,  and  I  hope  everyone 
of  you  will  develop  within  your  heart 
that  sort  of  spirit,  that  sort  of  attitude 
toward  the  leadership  of  the  Church, 
and  assume  just  as  David  McKay  back 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  8 

in  1883,  when  this  letter  was  written, 
assumed,  that  the  Brethren  know  what 
they  are  doing. 

"The  number  of  our  traveling  elders 
has  been  reduced  somewhat,  but  no 
doubt  President  Smith  will  remember 
Scotland  when  wisdom  dictates  to  send 
us  more  help.  We  need  elders  of  strong 
faith,  or  with  some  money  in  their 
possession.  Both  is  best,  providing  they 
have  wisdom  to  exercise  both  at  the 
same  time;  but  our  experience  has  con- 
veyed the  idea  to  our  mind,  that,  with 
cash  in  the  pocket,  faith  in  a  measure 
is  allowed  to  take  a  rest."  (Improvement 
Era,  April  1961,  p.  278  citing  Millennial 
Star,  Vol.  45,  p.  173.) 

Well,  I  have  been  very  much  tempted 
to  read  more,  but  I  want  you  all  to 
read  it  for  yourselves.  It  is  a  marvelous 
letter,  and  the  letter  which  the  Era 
published,  which  David  McKay  wrote 
and  which  was  published  in  the  Ogden 
newspaper  on  his  return,  is  another 
classic. 

Now  I  have  a  distinct  and  definite 
purpose  in  my  mind  tonight  to  read 
the  appraisal  of  President  David  O. 
McKay  as  a  missionary.  This  has  been 
written  at  my  request  by  a  former  mis- 
sion president.  He  says  that  since  be- 
ginning his  world  travels  in  1920,  when 
under  direction  of  President  Heber  J. 
Grant  and  counselors  and  the  Quorum 
of  the  Twelve,  President  David  O. 
McKay  and  Elder  Hugh  J.  Cannon  were 
assigned  to  visit  missions  and  various 
lands  around  the  earth.  President 
McKay  has  undoubtedly  traveled  wider 
and  farther  than  any  other  missionary. 

Speaking  of  these  beginnings,  Presi- 
dent McKay  says:  "When  we  left  home 
December  4,  1920,  we  looked  forward 
with  no  little  misgiving  and  anxiety  to 
the  trip  ahead  of  us.  It  was  no  simple 
matter  to  contemplate  traveling  to  the 
Orient,  hence  to  the  Antipodes,  much  of 
that  distance  to  be  spent  on  the  water. 
The  keen  sense  of  responsibility  ade- 
quately to  fulfill  the  desires  of  President 
Grant  and  his  Counselors  and  the 
Twelve  who  had  honored  us  with  that 
call,  made  us  seek  the  Lord  as  I  have 
never  sought  him  before  in  my  life, 
and  I  wish  to  say  this  afternoon  that  the 
promise  made  by  Moses  to  the  children 
of  Israel  just  before  they  crossed  the 
Jordan  River  into  the  Promised  Land 


Second  Day 

has  been  fulfilled  in  our  experience,  as 
we  sought  the  Lord  with  all  our  souls. 
He  came  to  our  guidance  and  assistance. 
It  may  be  that  the  realization  of  our 
dependence  upon  him  made  more 
prominent  what  seems  to  me  to  be  a 
deplorable  tendency  of  the  world  to 
disregard,  even  to  disown,  their  rela- 
tionship to  our  Heavenly  Father.  It  is 
our  privilege  to  hear  educators  and  other 
prominent  men  speak  in  different  places 
and  upon  different  occasions,  and  to 
mingle  with  different  classes  of  men  and 
women  on  boats,  for  we  spent  a  total  of 
five  months  on  the  water,  sailing  in 
about  23  different  vessels,  each  vessel 
well  crowded  with  all  classes  of  tourists, 
most  of  whom  were  confessed  Christians. 

"Frequently  we  were  grieved  to  note 
the  attitude  of  apology  that  these 
Christian  men  and  women  assumed 
concerning  God,  their  Creator,  and  his 
Son,  Jesus  Christ." 

Upon  this  trip,  and  many  subsequent 
ones,  he  had  many  and  varied  experi- 
ences; for  instance,  he  rededicated  the 
Holy  Land  for  the  return  of  Israel  there, 
and  to  the  preaching  of  the  gospel.  He 
also  dedicated  the  land  of  China  for  the 
preaching  of  the  gospel.  He  himself 
preached  the  gospel  on  the  high  seas, 
near  volcanoes,  in  waste  places,  on 
mountains,  and  in  the  earth's  beautiful 
valleys.  He  lived  intimately  with  na- 
tives in  most  of  the  European  countries, 
in  the  Holy  Land,  Armenia,  China,  New 
Zealand,  Australia,  Tonga,  Samoa, 
Hawaii,  in  South  American  countries, 
and  in  others,  but  he  lived,  not  only 
with  natives  in  these  places,  but  also 
with  educators,  professional  men  and 
women,  statesmen,  officials,  and  others. 

In  all  these  relations  did  he  ever  have 
any  serious  contention  or  strife?  He 
spread  the  spirit  of  love  and  respect 
and  received  the  same  in  return,  and 
his  name  is  held  as  a  symbol  of  love  and 
peace  in  the  countries  where  he  has 
traveled.  The  spirit  of  inspiration  was 
heavy  upon  him,  so  that  through  him 
miracles  were  performed  as  in  the  days 
of  old  by  Peter  and  others  of  the  apostles. 

Of  this  spirit  President  McKay  says: 
"Inspiration  was  given  to  us  on  our 
world  tour  of  the  missions  of  the 
Church. 

"I  want  to  testify  to  you  that  God 
was  with  us  when  we  stood  beneath 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


95 


the  old  tree  in  China  when  we  dedi- 
cated that  land  to  the  preaching  of  the 
gospel.  My  words  may  not  convince 
you  of  the  fact,  but  no  disputant  can 
convince  me  that  our  souls  were  not 
filled  to  overflowing  with  the  Spirit  of 
God  on  that  occasion.  .  .  . 

"I  knew  of  his  protecting  care  in  the 
Tongan  Islands;  for  when  the  vessel 
was  submerged  by  a  mountainous  wave, 
we  felt  peace  and  security. 

"At  Papeete,  Tahiti,  we  knew  his 
guiding  hand  and  acknowledged  his 
overruling  Providence,  when  replacing 
our  judgment  by  his  inspiration,  he 
moved  us  to  do  something  which  our 
own  judgment  had  told  us  not  to  do, 
subsequent  events  proving  that  the  in- 
spiration came  in  rich  abundance  in 
the  priesthood  meetings  with  the  mis- 
sionaries. ... 

"Again,  when  among  the  Samoans, 
we  felt  his  presence  on  several  occasions, 
especially  in  that  memorable  farewell 
at  Sauniatu."  (Cherished  Experiences, 
pp.  134-135.)  He  then  relates  how  they 
were  directed  to  Elder  Joseph  Wilford 
Booth  in  Armenia,  and  he  was  directed 
to  meet  them — Brothers  McKay  and 
Cannon — with  no  suggestion  of  time  or 
place  suggested,  yet  they  did  meet  in  a 
miraculous  way. 

He  also  relates  how  a  Chinese  brother 
whom  he  knew  was  transformed  from  a 
would-be  murderer  to  a  man  of  love 
and  peace,  who  dedicated  his  life  and 
fortune  to  the  gospel,  was  made  happy 
and  spread  his  happiness  like  a  con- 
tagion through  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ. 

The  above-mentioned  experiences  re- 
veal the  spirit  that  accompanied  and 
prompted  President  McKay  as  he  pur- 
sued his  extended  missionary  work.  In 
these  experiences  he  has  witnessed  the 
degradation  and  suffering  because  of  a 
lack  of  knowledge  of  gospel  principles. 
In  contrast,  he  has  seen  the  blessings, 
joy,  peace,  power,  and  happiness,  even 
miracles,  resulting  from  the  acceptance 
and  living  of  the  gospel.  Because  of 
these  experiences  he  has  come  to  realize 
that  the  world's  greatest  need  is  the 
hearing  and  the  living  of  the  gospel 
of  the  Master. 

Indeed,  it  is  this  realization  that  has 
impelled  his  late  extensive  travels  that 
have  fired  him  to  construct  numerous 


meetinghouses  and  temples  throughout 
the  world,  namely  that  the  gospel  may 
be  more  effectively  preached  and  taught 
to  the  world,  and,  I  might  say,  he  has 
a  deep-seated  desire  in  his  heart  that  all 
of  these  members  who  are  baptized  after 
their  conversion,  and  who  are  fellow- 
shiped  into  the  Church  should  have  the 
blessing  of  the  full  Church  program. 

It  is  not  difficult  to  follow  such  a 
great  leader,  and  such  a  great  mission- 
ary. I  want  to  take  just  a  minute  to 
say  that  this  direction,  of  which  Elders 
Petersen,  Hinckley,  and  Richards  have 
spoken  of  tonight,  has  come  from  the 
heart  of  this  great  missionary.  I  have 
heard  many  say  that  they  wonder  if 
there  has  ever  been  a  greater  missionary 
in  the  Church.  It  has  come  from  his 
heart  and  so  has  inspiration  from  the 
Almighty  that  every  member  of  this 
Church  should  be  a  missionary,  and 
especially  that  every  man  holding  the 
Holy  Priesthood  of  God  should  be  a  mis- 
sionary, and  that  now  extends  itself  to 
one  other  thought,  which  I  want  to 
leave  with  you. 

That  is,  that  every  family  in  the 
Church  should  be  a  missionary  family. 
If  ever  the  time  existed  upon  the  earth 
when  we  need  to  solidify  and  unify  and 
strengthen  the  family  circle,  it  is  today. 
You  go  into  the  home  of  a  Latter-day 
Saint  family  which  is  a  missionary  fam- 
ily in  the  true  sense  of  the  word,  and 
you  will  find  a  family  filled  with  love 
and  unity  and  with  the  choicest  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord  showered  down  upon 
them  constantly. 

My,  what  we  could  produce  in  this 
Church  today  if  we  would  follow  the 
admonitions  of  President  McKay,  the 
great  missionary  that  he  is.  This,  so  far 
as  my  feelings  are  concerned,  is  just  the 
same  as  though  the  Lord  had  spoken, 
because  to  me  he  has  spoken,  and  I 
know  as  I  live  that  he  has  spoken  to 
the  world  through  his  mouthpiece,  his 
prophet,  in  this  day  and  age,  telling  all 
of  us,  the  children  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  who  have  espoused  membership 
in  his  Church  and  kingdom,  to  become 
missionaries.  How  can  any  of  us  afford 
not  to  do  so? 

I  pray  God  to  bless  us  all  that  we  may 
unite  as  one  in  carrying  on  this  great 
work,  and  never  let  a  bishop  be  heard 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  S 

to  complain  about  the  work  of  the  mis- 
sionaries in  the  mission  field,  or  never 
let  a  missionary  complain  about  what  a 
bishop  does  as  he  presides  over  his 
ward,  for  there  must  be  unity  in  the 
priesthood,  and  particularly  among  those 
to  whom  keys  of  the  priesthood,  keys  of 
presidency,  have  been  given.  To  that 
body  of  men,  above  all  other  men  on 
earth,  there  must  be  an  absolute  unity 


Second  Day 

of  purpose.  Be  assured  that  whatever 
the  missionaries  do  in  the  full-time  mis- 
sions of  the  Church,  they  are  doing  it 
under  the  inspiration  and  the  direction 
of  President  David  O.  McKay,  and  when 
we  fail  to  sustain  them,  we  fail  to  sus- 
tain him  and  to  sustain  the  Lord. 

God  bless  us  to  put  our  hearts  and 
souls  and  those  of  our  families  to  this 
work,  I  pray  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


I  have  just  been  handed  a  paper  giving 
the  general  priesthood  conference  count, 
April  8,  1961.  These  reports  have  come 
in  early.  Attendance  in  the  Salt  Lake 
Tabernacle,  8,097.  In  the  Assembly 
Hall,  Barratt  Hall,  and  grounds,  2,688. 
A  total  attendance  on  these  two  blocks, 
10,785.  Attendance  in  other  places  is  to 
be  reported  by  mail  later.  For  com- 
parison, in  April  1960,  we  had  10,432 
on  the  grounds;  in  October,  1960,  9,911; 
so  we  have  10,785  tonight,  the  largest 
we  have  ever  had. 

We  have  had  a  remarkable  meeting. 
We  shall  report  to  you  tomorrow  how 
many  are  in  the  other  chapels  listening 
in  to  this  inspirational  missionary  meet- 
ing. In  the  congregations  there  are 
thousands,  tens  of  thousands  of  young 
men  of  the  Lesser  Priesthood — our 
future  missionaries.  I  shall  just  ask  the 
bishops  to  call  their  attention  to  the 
following. 

To  render  service  for  two  or  three 
years  in  the  mission  field  is  a  blessing 
to  anyone.  It  is  recognized  as  such  by 
thousands  of  parents  throughout  the 
Church  who  appreciate  the  value  of 
such  labor  to  their  sons  and  daughters, 
in  whom  this  experience  awakens  an 
appreciation  of  home  and  of  the  gospel. 
Parents  know  also  that  missionary  ac- 
tivity brings  into  the  plane  of  con- 
sciousness a  knowledge  of  the  truth  of 
the  gospel,  which  the  young  men  have 
perhaps  felt  but  not  expressed. 

Bishops,  it  is  well  for  us  to  have  in 
mind  not  so  much  the  benefit  to  those 
representatives  as  their  preparation  and 
fitness  to  carry  on  the  responsibilities 
entailed  in  a  missionary  call.  In  choos- 
ing a  missionary  it  is  well  to  keep  in 
mind  questions  as  follows: 

Is  he  worthy  to  represent  the  Church? 


Has  he  sufficient  will  power  to  resist 
temptation? 

Has  he  kept  himself  clean  while  he 
has  been  home  and  by  that  standard 
proved  himself  capable  of  resisting  pos- 
sible temptation  in  the  field? 

Has  he  taken  active  part  in  Church 
organizations  at  home? 

Does  he  at  least  glimpse  what  the 
Church  has  to  offer  the  world? 

Has  he  glimpsed  that  the  Church  is 
the  greatest  thing  in  the  world,  and 
the  only  authorized  group  to  represent 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  the  salvation  of 
mankind?  I  use  the  word  glimpsed 
because  many  of  our  young  men  hesitate 
to  bear  their  testimonies.  They  say  they 
don't  know — they  believe.  But  if  they 
will  just  stop  to  analyze  what  this 
Church  does  to  the  individual,  first  in 
keeping  himself  clean  and  unspotted; 
second,  in  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom; 
third,  in  keeping  chaste  and  pure;  if  he 
just  studies  and  realizes  and  even  just 
glimpses  what  it  does  for  the  home — no 
drunken  father,  if  he  is  a  member  of 
the  Church;  no  disloyal  husband;  no 
mother  who  makes  home  unhappy  by 
her  infidelity — a  home  keeping  the 
standards  of  the  Church,  is  a  happy 
home;  an  unbroken  home — a  home 
where  boys  and  girls  take  turns  in  offer- 
ing prayer,  in  courtesy  and  mutual  help- 
fulness. That  is  what  we  mean  by 
"glimpsing." 

Has  he  taken  active  part  in  Church 
organizations?  I  do  not  have  time  to 
elaborate  upon  that. 

Has  he,  through  prayer,  or  experience, 
felt  God's  nearness  to  him,  so  that  he 
can  approach  the  Lord  as  he  would  his 
earthly  father? 

Young  men,  please  keep  those  ques- 
tions in  mind  as  you  take  part  in  your 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


97 


deacons'  quorums,  teachers'  quorums, 
priests'  quorums,  elders'  quorums;  and 
as  you  prepare  in  activity  at  home,  in 
personal  life,  and  in  your  schoolwork  to 
quality  yourselves  to  go  out  as  repre- 
sentatives. May  you  be  among  those 
who  can  be  trusted — a  representative  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  I  humbly  pray  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Thank  you,  Brother  Condie  and  mem- 
bers of  the  Choir,  for  your  inspirational 
singing  this  night.  And  thank  you,  my 
Scotch  brother,  for  singing  and  inspiring 
this  group  with  "I  Know  That  My  Re- 
deemer Lives." 


The  Choir  will  now  favor  us  with 
"Sweet  Hour  Of  Prayer,"  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  Men's  Chorus.  Elder 
Holger  P.  Petersen,  former  Danish 
Mission  president,  will  offer  the  bene- 
diction, after  which  this  Conference  will 
be  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  tomorrow 
morning. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus 
sang  the  hymn,  "Sweet  Hour  Of 
Prayer,"  following  which  the  benedic- 
tion was  pronounced  by  Elder  Holger  P. 
Petersen,  former  Danish  Mission  Presi- 
dent. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday 
morning,  April  9,  at  10:00  a.m. 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  in  the  Taber- 
nacle Sunday  morning,  April  9,  at  10 
o'clock. 

(Columbia  Broadcasting  System's 
Chuch  of  the  Air,  on  which  Elder 
Mark  E.  Petersen  was  the  speaker,  was 
presented  at  7:35  a.m.  The  Tabernacle 
Choir  and  Organ  broadcast  was  pre- 
sented at  9:30  a.m.  See  pages  134  to 
138  for  a  full  report  of  these  broadcasts.) 

The  music  for  this  session  of  the 
Conference  was  furnished  by  the  Salt 
Lake  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  di- 
rection of  Richard  P.  Condie.  Elder 
Frank  W.  Asper  was  at  the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  who  pre- 
sided and  conducted  the  services,  made 
the  following  introductory  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Fifth  Session  of  this  General 
Conference  was  a  General  Priesthood 
Meeting  held  last  evening  at  7  o'clock 
in  this  building,  with  overflow  meetings 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall, 
and  relayed  by  closed  circuit  to  mem- 
bers of  the  Priesthood  assembled  in  285 
Church  buildings  in  virtually  every 
section  of  the  United  States,  and  eleven 
locations  in  Canada.    There  were  re- 


ported in  attendance  10,785  members  of 
the  Priesthood  here  in  the  Tabernacle 
and  these  adjoining  buildings. 

The  speakers  were  Elder  Mark  E. 
Petersen  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve; 
Elder  Franklin  D.  Richards,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve;  Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinck- 
ley, also  an  Assistant  to  the  Twelve; 
and  members  of  the  First  Presidency. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus 
furnished  the  music,  with  a  solo  from 
Elder  Dennis  Clancy.  It  was  very 
inspirational. 

This  morning  at  7:35  Elder  Mark  E. 
Petersen  was  the  speaker  for  Columbia 
Broadcasting  System's  Church  of  the  Air 
program  over  KSL  Radio  Station.  These 
services  this  morning  constitute  the 
Sixth  Session.  They  are  televised  by 
many  circuits  on  the  western  coast,  and 
in  order  that  people  may  hear  and  see 
the  proceedings  we  shall  postpone  the 
usual  announcements  until  after  the 
first  hour. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  di- 
rection of  Richard  P.  Condie,  with 
Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ,  will  open 
these  services  by  singing,  "A  Song  of 
Jesus."  The  invocation  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  Robert  L.  Bridge,  president  of 
the  Riverside  Stake. 


98 

Sunday,  April  9 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  an  an- 
them, "A  Song  Of  Jesus." 

President  Robert  L.  Bridge  of  the 
Riverside  Stake  offered  the  invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Robert  L.  Bridge,  president  of 
the  Riverside  Stake,  offered  the  invoca- 
tion. The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now 
sing,  "Ballad  of  Brotherhood,"  Richard 
P.  Condie  conducting.    Following  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

singing,  President  Henry  D.  Moyle  will 
address  us. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang,  "Ballad 
Of  Brotherhood." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church  will  be 
our  first  speaker.  He  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks. 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


"The  earth  is  the  Lord's,  and  the  ful- 
ness thereof;  the  world,  and  they  that 
dwell  therein."  (Psalm  24:1.) 

As  Latter-day  Saints  we  believe  liter- 
ally these  words  of  the  Psalmist.  We 
are  the  Lord's  as  are  all  our  fellow  men. 
This  makes  us  all  brothers  and  sisters, 
sons  and  daughters  of  God,  with  his 
only  Begotten  Son  Jesus  Christ,  our  elder 
brother.  This  is  a  much  closer  relation- 
ship than  most  of  us  realize.  It  gives 
ample  justification  for  "The  Golden 
Rule"  and  all  that  Christ  taught  the 
world  in  his  Sermon  on  the  Mount.  In 
fact,  this  relationship  forms  the  basis  for 
all  of  Christ's  teachings. 

Whatever  the  Lord  has  for  his  chil- 
dren here  on  earth,  he  has  for  all  of  us. 
He  is  no  respecter  of  persons.  Underly- 
ing all  of  God's  dealings  with  his 
children  in  all  generations  of  time  is 
the  responsibility  which  attaches  to  any 
gift  which  we  receive  from  God. 

In  the  lives  of  those  of  us  who  are  the 
recipients  of  his  great  blessings,  our 
duty  is  well  understood,  and  we  do  not 
shirk  it.  Herein  lies  the  reason  for  and 
the  foundation  of  all  of  our  great 
missionary  work,  both  at  home  and 
abroad.  Having  received  a  knowledge  of 
the  restoration  of  the  gospel,  we  are  im- 
pelled by  a  power  far  greater  than  any 
earthly  power  or  earthly  influence  to 
teach  the  gospel  to  others  that  they 
might  enjoy  the  fulness  of  life  in  full 
fellowship  with  our  Father  in  heaven 
and  in  communion  with  us. 

The  importance  of  our  missionary 
labors  is  emphasized  in  the  gospel  as 
written  by  John:    "And  this  is  life 


eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee  the 
only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom 
thou  hast  sent."  (John  17:3.) 

We  have  often  been  asked  why  we  do 
not  limit  our  missionary  labors  to  the 
heathens,  why  do  we  bother  Christian 
nations.  The  answer  to  this  important 
question  is  best  found  in  the  fact  that 
the  missionary  work  which  we  perform 
is  the  same  all  over  the  world,  whether 
it  be  here  at  home  in  the  United  States 
or  in  some  remote  nation  of  the  earth. 
Our  responsibility  is  to  take  the  restored 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  all  our  fellow 
men.  Following  Christ's  ministry,  his 
gospel  was  carried  to  the  great  centers 
of  culture  by  his  apostles  and  their  as- 
sociates— Jerusalem,  Corinth,  Ephesus, 
Athens,  Rome,  Carthage,  to  mention 
only  a  few. 

We  are  not  left  in  doubt  as  to  what 
we  should  do.  At  the  end  of  the  Gospel, 
according  to  John,  we  read: 

".  .  .  Peter  was  grieved  because  he 
said  unto  him  the  third  time,  Lovest 
thou  me?  And  he  said  unto  him,  Lord, 
thou  knowest  all  things;  thou  knowest 
that  I  love  thee.  Jesus  saith  unto  him, 
[for  the  third  time]  Feed  my  sheep." 
(Ibid.,  21:17.) 

Were  there  any  doubt  in  our  minds 
as  to  the  meaning  of  this  parable,  the 
doubt  should  be  removed  when  we  read 
the  closing  sentences  of  the  Gospel  ac- 
cording to  Matthew. 

"Go  ye  therefore,  and  teach  all  na- 
tions, baptizing  them  in  the  name  of 
the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the 
Holy  Ghost: 

"Teaching  them  to  observe  all  things 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


99 


whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you:  .  .  ." 
(Matt.  28:19-20.) 

With  the  passing  of  time  our  rela- 
tionship to  one  another  and  to  God  has 
not  changed.  We  are  now  no  less  con- 
strained to  teach  others  the  ways  of  God 
than  were  his  disciples  of  old.  We  are, 
in  fact,  under  greater  stress  so  to  do 
because  God  has  given  us  sufficient 
temporal  resources  and  also  unlimited 
means  of  transmitting  to  all  mankind 
the  eternal  truths  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  which  have  once  again  been 
given  to  man  through  his  prophets  in 
these  latter  days  to  the  convincing  of 
the  souls  of  men  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  a  plan  for  the 
salvation  and  exaltation  of  man  was 
given  by  God  himself  before  the  founda- 
tions of  the  earth  were  laid,  which,  if 
followed,  will  bring  all  his  children 
back  into  his  divine  presence,  there  to 
dwell  eternally  in  a  state  of  eternal 
happiness  and  progression;  that  we 
through  the  gift  and  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  can  know  and  understand  and 
follow  this  way  of  life  which  was  also 
laid  down  for  us  by  our  Lord  and 
Savior  Jesus  Christ,  while  he  walked 
here  among  men  upon  the  earth  in  the 
Meridian  of  Time. 

Indeed,  this  course  which  God  in- 
tends his  children  to  follow  in  mortality 
was  given  to  Adam  and  has  been 
revealed  to  all  the  prophets  of  God  in 
every  gospel  dispensation  for  the  en- 
lightenment of  mankind  down  to  the 
present  time. 

Paul  said,  "That  in  the  dispensation 
of  the  fulness  of  times  he  might  gather 
together  in  one  all  things  in  Christ, 
both  which  are  in  heaven,  and  which 
are  on  earth;  .  .  ."  (Eph.  1:10.) 

This  is  the  Dispensation  of  the  Ful- 
ness of  Times  of  which  Paul  spoke  to  the 
Ephesians. 

Inasmuch  as  the  Fulness  of  Times  has 
now  been  revealed  to  man,  we  have 
all  that  has  gone  before  in  all  former 
dispensations  of  time,  to  now  present 
and  teach  to  men. 

It  is  of  course  with  the  present  time 
that  we  are  immediately  concerned. 
This  again  demonstrates  how  great  is 
our  responsibility  and  how  wonderful 
our  opportunity  for  service.  It  is  the 
purpose  of  the  Almighty  that  all  man- 


kind shall  sooner  or  later  receive  the 
message  of  the  restoration  of  the  gospel 
in  its  fulness. 

In  a  general  conference  of  the  Church 
held  in  Nauvoo  in  October  1840,  Joseph 
Smith  said:  "Now  the  purpose  in  Him- 
self in  the  winding  up  scene  of  the  last 
dispensation  is  that  all  things  pertaining 
to  that  dispensation  shall  be  conducted 
precisely  in  accordance  with  the  pre- 
ceding dispensations."  (DHC,  Vol.  IV, 
p.  208.) 

We  see  that  the  gospel  today  is  the 
gospel  of  yesterday.  Therefore  the 
revelations  of  God  to  man  through  his 
prophets  in  the  past,  as  found  in  the 
Holy  Bible,  are  of  immediate  importance 
and  application  in  our  lives  today.  To 
us  they  are  in  no  wise  antiquated  or 
outmoded.  The  revelations  of  the  past 
and  the  present  reveal  God  the  Father 
and  Jesus  Christ  his  Son  to  those  who 
will  read  with  a  will  to  understand. 
God's  laws  are  eternal.  Our  relation- 
ship to  God  is  both  unchanging  and 
everlasting. 

Parenthetically,  let  me  say  that  new 
editions  of  the  Bible,  no  matter  how 
modern,  cannot  help  us  any  unless  they 
present  to  us  a  more  accurate  interpreta- 
tion of  the  original  source  material  still 
available.  Our  attention  is  particularly 
called  in  this  respect  to  the  importance 
of  the  translation  of  the  Bible.  Our 
Eighth  Article  of  Faith  reads:  "We  be- 
lieve the  Bible  to  be  the  word  of  God 
as  far  as  it  is  translated  correctly;  we 
also  believe  the  Book  of  Mormon  to  be 
the  word  of  God." 

Paul  gave  the  Corinthians  the  spirit- 
ual attainment  necessary  to  our  under- 
standing of  God,  for  he  said:  ".  .  .  no 
man  can  say  [know]  that  Jesus  is  the 
Lord,  but  by  the  Holy  Ghost."  (1  Cor. 
12:3.) 

Our  understanding  of  the  scriptures 
and  our  conversion  to  the  truth  today 
must  follow  the  same  pattern  as  was  set 
for  Paul's  conversion  and  followed  by 
Paul  in  his  ministry  in  the  conversion 
of  others.  Paul  once  said:  "I  have 
planted,  Apollos  watered;  but  God  gave 
the  increase."  (Ibid.,  3:6.)  Where  there 
is  no  increase  given,  of  such  as  Paul 
spoke,  there  is  no  conversion. 

Job's  declaration  is  all-enlightening. 
"But  there  is  a  spirit  in  man:  and  the 


100  GENERAL  O 

Sunday,  April  9 

inspiration  of  the  Almighty  giveth  them 
understanding."  (Job  32:8.) 

Therefore,  when  we  come  to  fulfil  all 
righteousness  by  delivering  the  message 
of  the  gospel  as  it  has  been  revealed  to 
us,  to  our  fellow  men,  we  must  teach 
by  the  Spirit.  The  Spirit  must  bear 
witness  of  the  truthfulness  of  our  mes- 
sage to  the  world.  No  one  need  fear 
to  hear  our  message.  If  we  speak 
of  ourselves,  our  work  will  come 
to  naught.  Paul  declared  to  the 
Corinthians: 

"And  I,  brethren,  when  I  came  to  you, 
came  not  with  excellency  of  speech  or 
of  wisdom,  declaring  unto  you  the  testi- 
mony of  God. 

"For  I  determined  not  to  know  any 
thing  among  you,  save  Jesus  Christ, 
and  him  crucified. 

"And  I  was  with  you  in  weakness, 
and  in  fear,  and  in  much  trembling. 

"And  my  speech  and  my  preaching 
was  not  with  enticing  words  of  man's 
wisdom,  but  in  demonstration  of  the 
Spirit  and  power: 

"That  your  faith  should  not  stand 
in  the  wisdom  of  men,  but  in  the  power 
of  God."  (1  Cor.  2:1-5.) 

Paul  wrote  to  the  Ephesians:  "For 
through  him  we  both  have  access  by  one 
Spirit  unto  the  Father."  (Eph.  2:18.) 

"There  is  one  body,  and  one  Spirit, 
even  as  ye  are  called  in  one  hope  of 
your  calling; 

"One  Lord,  one  faith,  one  baptism, 
"One  God  and  Father  of  all,  who  is 
above  all,  and  through  all,  and  in  you 
all."  (Ibid.,  4:4-6.) 

We  bear  solemn  witness  to  the  world 
that  God  has  revealed  himself  and  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ  to  the  world  through 
his  Prophet  Joseph  Smith;  that  he  has 
restored  his  priesthood,  his  prophets,  and 
his  apostles  as  of  old  upon  this  earth. 
They  are  with  his  people  here  and  now. 
We  as  recipients  of  the  Holy  Priesthood 
are  empowered  and  authorized  to  preach 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  mankind 
today,  and  to  administer  in  all  the 
ordinances  of  the  gospel  given  to  man 
from  the  time  of  Adam  to  the  present 
day.  All  our  elders  called  on  missions 
at  home,  and  those  who  are  in  the 
various  nations  of  the  earth,  have  been 
ordained  to  the  priesthood  of  God  and 
set  apart  to  teach  the  world  the  saving 


Third  Day 

principles  of  the  gospel,  to  call  the  world 
to  repentance,  to  warn  the  world  of 
impending  dangers  which  can  be  met 
successfully  only  by  living  lives  of 
righteousness,  adhering  to  the  principles 
of  truth  which  emanate  from  the  throne 
of  God,  obedience  to  which  results  in 
peace  on  earth  and  in  exaltation  eternal- 
ly in  the  kingdom  of  our  Heavenly 
Father. 

The  Lord  once  said,  "For  behold,  this 
is  my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to 
pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of 
man."  (Moses  1:39.) 

Every  elder  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  called  into 
the  service  of  the  Master  as  a  missionary 
goes  forth  to  proclaim  these  duties,  with 
this  admonition  from  the  Lord — to  do 
his  work,  to  establish  his  glory,  to  turn 
the  hearts  and  spirits  of  men  to  their 
Maker.  We  have  received  a  very  posi- 
tive and  definite  commission  from  on 
high.  The  Lord  has  spoken,  and  these 
are  his  words: 

".  .  .  Ye  are  not  sent  forth  to  be 
taught,  but  to  teach  the  children  of 
men  the  things  which  I  have  put  into 
your  hands  by  the  power  of  my  Spirit; 

"And  ye  are  to  be  taught  from  on 
high.  Sanctify  yourselves  and  ye  shall 
be  endowed  with  power,  that  ye  may 
give  even  as  I  have  spoken."  (D&C 
43:15-16.) 

"And  again,  the  elders,  priests  and 
teachers  of  this  church  shall  teach  the 
principles  of  my  gospel,  which  are  in 
the  Bible  and  the  Book  of  Mormon,  in 
the  which  is  the  fulness  of  the  gospel." 
(Ibid.,  42:12.) 

Now  to  those  who  hear  will  be  given 
to  know  and  to  understand  the  teachings 
of  our  elders,  if  their  hearts  and  minds 
are  open,  and  they  have  a  sincere  desire 
to  know  the  truth.  The  Lord  will  an- 
swer the  prayers  of  those  who  seek  to 
know  the  truth.  Did  not  the  Master 
admonish  us  all  to  "Ask,  and  it  shall  be 
given  you;  seek,  and  ye  shall  find;  knock, 
and  it  shall  be  opened  unto  you:" 
(Matt.  7:7.) 

People  by  the  thousands  can  be  heard 
all  over  the  earth  to  testify  that  the 
message  of  the  missionaries  of  the 
Church  is  true.  They  do  not  rely  upon 
the  word  of  the  elders  of  the  Church 
alone.  They  receive  a  testimony  of  their 


PRESIDENT  HE1 

own  which  is  bom  of  the  Spirit.  This 
is  the  greatest  gift  which  comes  to  man 
from  on  high.  He  immediately  sees 
himself  in  true  perspective  with  his  fel- 
low men  and  with  his  God.  He  knows 
what  he  should  know.  He  is  responsive 
to  the  gospel  plan.  He  seeks  baptism 
by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  his 
sins. 

Christ  sought  John  the  Baptist  in  the 
wilderness  to  be  baptized  of  him  in  the 
River  Jordan.  Christ  at  once  recog- 
nized the  authority  to  baptize  held  by 
John.  Christ  declared  that  he  was 
baptized  to  "fulfil  all  righteousness." 
Following  his  baptism,  and  as  he  came 
straightway  out  of  the  water,  having 
been  immersed  therein,  the  heavens 
opened  and  God  the  Father  declared: 
"This  is  my  beloved  Son,  in  whom  I  am 
well  pleased."  The  Holy  Ghost,  the 
other  member  of  the  Godhead,  de- 
scended from  heaven  and  rested  upon 
the  Savior.  Thus  the  Savior  was  bap- 
tized both  by  water  and  by  the  Spirit. 

In  all  generations  of  time  those  who 
have  been  baptized  according  to  the 
plan  laid  down  by  the  Father,  justified 
by  the  Son  and  recognized  and  approved 
by  both  the  Father  and  the  Holy  Ghost, 
have,  after  baptism,  received  the  Holy 
Ghost  through  the  laying  on  of  hands 
by  those  who  are  in  authority — the  Holy 
Ghost,  the  Comforter,  which  Christ 
promised  his  disciples  would  be  sent  to 
them  by  the  Father  upon  his  ascension 
on  high.  Those  who  seek  after  the 
Comforter  can  be  assured,  through 
obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of 
the  gospel,  never  to  be  left  alone,  but 
always  to  have  the  influence,  power, 
and  inspiration  of  a  member  of  the 
Godhead  ever  present. 

Christ  says,  as  recorded  in  John: 
"But  when  the  Comforter  is  come,  whom 
I  will  send  unto  you  from  the  Father, 
even  the  Spirit  of  truth,  which  pro- 
ceedeth  from  the  Father,  he  shall  testify 
of  me: 

"And  ye  also  shall  bear  witness,  be- 
cause ye  have  been  with  me  from  the 
beginning."  (John  15:26-27.) 

For  you  it  is  left  to  decide  whether 
our  message  is  like  the  seed  in  the 
parable  of  the  sower,  some  falling  by  the 
wayside  into  stony  places,  or  among  the 
thorns,  or  into  the  good  ground,  and  is 


RY  D.  MOYLE  101 

heard  and  understood  and  beareth 
fruit  and  bringeth  forth  "some  an  hun- 
dredfold, some  sixtyfold,  some  thirty- 
fold."  (See  Matt.  13:3-8.) 

Our  preaching  of  the  gospel  today  is 
no  different  from  the  days  of  Pentecost 
in  Jerusalem  when  Peter  preached  to  the 
multitude.   We  read: 

"And  suddenly  there  came  a  sound 
from  heaven  as  of  a  rushing  mighty 
wind,  and  it  filled  all  the  house  where 
they  were  sitting. 

"And  there  appeared  unto  them 
cloven  tongues  like  as  of  fire,  and  it 
sat  upon  each  of  them. 

"And  they  were  all  filled  with  the 
Holy  Ghost,  and  began  to  speak  with 
other  tongues,  as  the  Spirit  gave  them 
utterance. 

"And  there  were  dwelling  at  Jerusalem 
Jews,  devout  men,  out  of  every  nation 
under  heaven."  (Acts  2:2-5.) 

Finally  Peter  testified  unto  them  in 
the  power  and  majesty  of  his  priesthood: 

"Therefore  let  all  the  house  of  Israel 
know  assuredly,  that  God  hath  made 
that  same  Jesus,  whom  ye  have  cruci- 
fied, both  Lord  and  Christ. 

"Now  when  they  heard  this,  they  were 
pricked  in  their  heart,  and  said  unto 
Peter  and  to  the  rest  of  the  apostles, 
Men  and  brethren,  what  shall  we  do? 

"Then  Peter  said  unto  them,  Repent, 
and  be  baptized  every  one  of  you  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the  remission 
of  sins,  and  ye  shall  receive  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost."  (Ibid.,  2:36-38.) 

With  President  McKay  to  direct  us 
in  our  effort  to  do  our  duty  in  promul- 
gating the  gospel  at  home  and  abroad, 
we  always  know  the  proper  course  to 
pursue.  The  Lord  has  raised  him  up 
to  be  his  prophet,  seer,  and  revelator  and 
to  give  to  his  Church  a  revelation  per- 
taining to  our  duties  as  members  of  the 
Church  in  the  world  today.  We  are 
all  becoming  more  and  more  aware  of 
our  responsibility,  our  privilege,  our 
power,  and  our  opportunity.  On  every 
hand  we  are  beckoned  by  the  world  to 
divulge,  as  it  were,  the  secret  of  our 
unity  and  success  and  happiness.  No 
one  lacks  opportunity. 

Some  may  ask  the  question  as  to  how 
we  convert  others  to  the  truth.  The 
answer  is,  we  do  not.  Conversion  comes 
from  above.    Our  part  in  this  work  is 


102 

Sunday,  April  9 

to  plant  the  seeds  of  truth.  These  seeds 
are  born  of  our  conviction  when  we 
testify  of  the  divine  mission  of  Jesus 
Christ,  the  Son  of  the  Living  God,  who 
offered  himself  as  a  sacrifice  for  the 
sins  of  the  world.  We  rely  upon  the 
gift  and  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  to 
carry  our  message  into  the  hearts  of  our 
listeners  and  witness  unto  them  the 
truthfulness  of  our  stated  conviction. 

"And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies 
which  have  been  given  of  him,  this  is 
the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we 
give  of  him:  That  he  lives!"  declared 
Joseph  Smith  and  Sidney  Rigdon  in 
1832. 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right 
hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Be- 
gotten of  the  Father — 

"That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and 
of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were  created, 
and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten 
sons  and  daughters  unto  God."  (D&C 
76:22-24.) 

God  help  us  all  as  his  children  that 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

we  may  wend  our  way  back  to  him  by 
obedience  to  the  laws  and  command- 
ments set  forth  in  his  gospel,  I  humbly 
pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the  First 
Presidency  has  just  spoken  to  us.  We 
hope  that  all  the  televisions  and  radios 
that  were  tuned  in  along  the  West 
Coast,  in  the  Northwest  and  throughout 
the  nation,  heard  his  address,  and  also 
the  beautiful  singing  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  and  while  we  are  all  tuned  in, 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  to  you 
the  love  and  greetings  and  confidence  of 
President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  who  is 
content  to  remain  home  at  the  advice 
of  his  physician.  He  telephoned  before 
this  meeting  and  sends  his  greeting  and 
love  to  all  who  are  listening  in. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Marion 
D.  Hanks  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy. 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


I  need  and  earnestly  pray  for  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  in  this  important  oppor- 
tunity. With  the  guidance  of  that  Spirit 
I  would  hope  to  do  three  things  this 
morning:  to  add  my  testimony  to  what 
has  been  said  here,  to  confront  and 
acknowledge  a  serious  problem,  and  then 
to  offer  some  suggestions  relating  to  the 
well-being  of  youth  and  their  relation- 
ships with  their  parents  and  other 
adults. 

Perhaps  many  of  you  did  not  hear 
President  McKay's  stirring  declaration  of 
faith  and  confidence  in  youth  at  the 
beginning  of  this  conference.  To  no 
message  could  I  have  more  sincerely 
thrilled  and  responded.  I  add  my  testi- 
mony of  joy  and  confidence  in  them. 
I  am  one  who  earnestly  believes  that 
teaching  them  and  seeking  to  help 
them  and  bearing  witness  to  them  is 
as  important  as  any  missionary  work 
being  done  in  the  world  today. 

This  morning  Brother  [Mark  E.] 
Petersen  delivered  to  the  nation  a  mov- 


ing expression  of  his  conviction  that 
with  parents  and  in  the  homes  of  Amer- 
ica lies  the  basis  of  much  of  the  problem 
of  our  youth.  To  this  I  add  my  testi- 
mony. I  believe  that  there  is  no  force 
so  vital  in  helping  to  shape  the  lives  of 
the  young,  for  good  or  ill,  as  the  influ- 
ence of  parents  and  home. 

I  would  testify  of  another  truth:  In 
my  judgment  there  has  never  been  so 
great  an  opportunity  or  so  urgent  a  need 
as  there  is  today  for  this  Church,  its 
members,  families,  and  homes,  to  share 
great  and  vital  principles,  programs,  and 
inspiration  with  the  youth  of  the  Church 
and  the  nation.  I  believe  we  have  an 
unparalleled  opportunity  for  leadership 
and  contribution.  I  would  like  to  wit- 
ness to  you  that  our  much-discussed,  ter- 
ribly tempted,  often  troubled,  frequently 
undervalued,  but  wonderful,  solid,  prom- 
ising youthful  generation  has  knowledge 
of  its  needs  and  says  to  us,  sometimes  in 
the  very  words  we  have  said  to  them, 
(when  they  have  a  chance  to  say  it  and 


ELDER  MARl 

be  listened  to),  that  they  know  their 
needs  and  would  like  us  to  help  them 
meet  them. 

The  second  theme  I  should  like  to 
note  is  that  there  are  very  tragic  prob- 
lems involving  many  of  the  youth  of 
the  land.  I  confess  that  I  still  wonder 
at  the  propriety  of  quoting  statistics  that 
are  unpleasant  on  the  face  of  them  and 
in  their  implications,  without  time  to 
properly  consider  backgrounds  and  cir- 
cumstances, but  I  believe  that  we  have 
no  time  to  lose,  and  that  sometime, 
somewhere,  parents  and  other  adults 
must  be  confronted  with  the  facts.  Let 
me  give  an  example  of  what  I  mean. 

The  United  States  Navy  a  time  ago 
instituted  a  program  of  morale-building 
among  its  personnel — a  wonderful  pro- 
gram based  on  fundamental  principles  of 
morality  and  responsibility  and  patriot- 
ism with  which  the  Church  has  always 
been  concerned  and  which  are  in  opera- 
tion among  us.  The  results  of  the  Navy 
program  are  reported  to  be  excellent,  but 
let  me  report  a  few  of  the  sobering  statis- 
tics that  motivated  the  institution  of  the 
program  and  which  still  reflect,  at  least 
in  some  measure,  existing  circumstances. 
During  one  six-month  period,  it  was  re- 
ported in  public  print,  the  Navy  brig 
population  totaled  enough  men  to  man 
the  entire  submarine  fleet  of  the  nation. 
The  Navy  was  starting  a  new  courtmar- 
tial  every  two  and  a  half  minutes  of 
every  single  working  day.  Enough  men 
were  deserting  each  year  to  man  twelve 
guided-missile  cruisers,  enough  being 
dishonorably  discharged  to  man  twenty 
destroyers,  and  enough  being  hospital- 
ized for  neuro-psychiatric  reasons  alone 
to  man  five  Forrestal-type  carriers. 

The  American  Social  Health  Associa- 
tion estimates  an  annual  venereal 
disease- infected  population  in  the  United 
States  of  200,000  under  twenty  years  of 
age.  In  any  one  year,  fewer  than  50,000 
of  these  are  reported.  Most  of  the  re- 
mainder are  undiscovered,  many  until 
they  make  their  mark  in  tragedy  in  the 
lives  of  unsuspecting  families  or  others. 
It  is  also  noted  that  there  were  207,000 
illegitimate  births  recorded  in  this  na- 
tion last  year. 

These  statistics  are  startling  enough, 
but  they  are  indicative  of  another  prob- 
lem   which    especially    alarms  some 


W  D.  HANKS  103 

knowledgeable  observers.  Listen  to  this 
recently  published  statement: 

"As  we  fail  to  reverse  the  rising  trend 
in  juvenile  delinquency,  we  approach  a 
critical  situation.  Our  national  resources 
for  detention,  treatment,  or  rehabilita- 
tion of  the  pre-delinquent  or  the  de- 
linquent child  are  already  inadequate, 
unevenly  distributed,  and  severely 
strained.  They  will  be  unable  to  cope 
with  further  increases  in  our  youth 
population  and  with  the  rise  in  de- 
linquency." 

In  plain  words,  this  notes  the  appre- 
hension in  the  hearts  of  many  who 
believe  that  we  cannot  possibly  produce 
specialists,  experts,  guidance  counselors, 
psychologists,  social  workers  fast  enough 
to  meet  the  increasing  need  for  them. 
Obviously,  then,  the  solution  lies  else- 
where. There  has  to  be  another  answer. 
We  do  not  minimize  the  work  of  the 
experts  and  trained  workers.  While  the 
Church  is  primarily  interested  in  pre- 
vention, the  message  of  the  gospel  is  one 
of  restoration  and  rehabilitation  also. 
The  first  principles  of  the  gospel  are 
faith  and  repentance,  based  in  the  love 
of  God  and  fellow  man. 

The  answer  to  the  problem  of  Ameri- 
can youth,  however,  cannot  be  left  with 
the  expert  and  the  specialist.  It  lies  in 
the  hands,  in  the  hearts,  in  the  willing 
spirits  of  the  parents  and  other  inter- 
ested adults  who  can  bless  them  and 
help  them  meet  their  problems — this 
great  solid  majority  of  wonderful  young 
people  who  want  to  do  well,  who  are 
not  now  in  trouble  and  do  not  want  to 
be,  but  who  need  help  if  they  are  to 
become  the  constructive,  contributing, 
wholesome  human  beings  they  would 
like  to  be. 

My  third  theme,  then,  is  to  consider 
some  of  the  needs  of  youth. 

I  mention  first  (and  no  one  will  be 
surprised  by  it)  that  young  people  need 
the  love  and  approval  of  their  parents 
and  of  others  whose  lives  influence  them 
and  who  are  important  to  them.  They 
need  to  be  accepted  as  they  are  and  in 
light  of  what  they  can  become,  and  they 
need  to  be  motivated  through  love  to 
want  to  be  the  very  best  they  are  cap- 
able of  being.  They  need  a  feeling  of 
belonging,  of  solid  attachment  to  some- 
thing stable.   They  need  the  confidence 


104 

Sunday,  April  9 

and  the  respect,  the  faith  and  the  high 
expectations  of  their  elders.  Let  me 
quote  again  the  marvelous  words  of 
Goethe:  "If  you  treat  an  individual  as 
he  is,  he  will  remain  as  he  is,  but  if  you 
treat  him  as  if  he  were  what  he  could 
be  and  ought  to  be,  he  will  become  what 
he  could  be  and  ought  to  be." 

I  have  in  my  possession  a  copy  of  a 
letter  written  from  the  plains  by  a  pio- 
neer mother  who  had  just  buried  her 
husband.  Brokenhearted,  she  took  her 
children  and  continued  the  journey  with 
the  great  faith  that  had  moved  her  from 
Europe  across  an  ocean  and  now  moved 
her  to  cross  a  continent.  She  wrote  a 
letter  to  her  husband's  parents,  notifying 
them  of  the  death  of  their  son.  Her 
words  moved  me  so  much  at  the  first 
reading  that  I  could  not  forget  them. 
She  said: 

"Dear  Father  and  Mother:  Out  of 
my  broken  heart  I  have  to  tell  you  of 
the  death  on  the  plains  of  your  dearly 
beloved  son  and  my  best  friend."  And 
then  she  went  on  to  tell  them  the  story 
of  his  passing. 

Is  it  not  certainly  true  that  the  best 
friends  we  have  in  this  world  ought  to 
be  thcwe  of  our  own  household?  What 
kind  of  atmosphere  would  youth  grow 
up  in  if  that  feeling  were  in  the  homes 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  perhaps 
through  us  in  the  homes  of  a  great  many 
good,  faithful,  loyal  people  in  this  nation 
and  the  world?  How  would  it  be  for 
the  spiritual  prosperity  of  the  young  if 
they  were  assured  of  a  love  that  endures 
and  inspires  and  allows  for  imperfections 
and  failings  and  mistakes  and  for  re- 
pentance? 

I  do  not  think  I  will  hear  anything  in 
this  world  more  sweet  and  moving,  and 
to  me  as  a  parent,  more  satisfying,  than 
some  words  I  heard  from  the  tongue  of  a 
four-year-old  in  the  middle  of  the  night 
some  years  ago.  There  had  been  a 
childish  infraction  which  was  somewhat 
serious  since  it  involved  the  use  of  a 
butcher  knife  between  two  little  chil- 
dren, and  since  I  have  normal  love  for 
them  and  some  normal  anxieties  for 
their  future,  I  had  interfered.  There 
was  a  period  of  instruction,  some  pun- 
ishment to  emphasize  it,  a  few  tears, 
some  explanations,  and  a  time  of  self- 
examination.    We  were  awakened  very 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

early  the  next  morning  to  hear  the  two 
little  girls  talking.  The  three-year-old 
was  in  bed  with  the  four-year-old,  being 
comforted  from  some  nocturnal  fright. 
We  heard  the  four-year-old  say  to  her, 
"Don't  be  frightened,  Nancy.  You  will 
be  all  right."  And  then,  "Do  you  know 
something,  Nancy?  Do  you  know  that 
Daddy  and  Mommy  love  us  even  when 
we  are  naughty.  They're  'dis  trying  to 
teach  us." 

O  the  Lord  help  us  to  have  wisdom 
enough  and  faith  enough  always  to 
help  them  believe  it  and  to  make  them 
know  that  their  Father  in  heaven  feels 
this  way,  also,  that  it  is  to  us  and  to 
him  they  must  turn  in  repentance,  in 
faith,  and  in  humility. 

With  this  love  and  affection  and  con- 
fidence, young  people  need  to  be  in- 
structed. Someone  once  said  that  we 
habitually  underestimate  their  intelli- 
gence and  overestimate  their  experience. 
We  expect  them  to  act  like  miniature 
adults  and  yet  often  we  do  not  teach 
them. 

What  is  it  that  we  need  to  teach 
them?  We  can  be  sure  of  their  per- 
ceptiveness.  We  can  be  sure  that  they 
will  see  and  hear  and  absorb  and  imi- 
tate, and  therefore  it  is  vital  that  what 
they  see  and  hear  and  absorb  is  worthy 
of  imitation.  We  need  to  teach  them, 
as  the  Lord  has  taught  us  to  teach  them, 
the  first  principles  of  the  gospel.  We 
need  to  teach  them  prayer.  We  need 
to  help  them  get  a  sense  of  their  rela- 
tionship with  their  Heavenly  Father 
that  will  make  them  want  to  walk  up- 
rightly before  him,  that  will  help  them 
to  seek  objectives  and  goals  that  go  be- 
yond the  material.  We  should  endeavor 
to  teach  them  to  want  to  educate  and 
discipline  their  minds  and  to  keep  their 
bodies  clean  and  healthy.  In  their 
youth  they  need  to  be  taught  that  there 
are  things  worth  sacrificing  for,  they 
need  to  learn  good  citizenship,  patriot- 
ism, respect  for  others,  honor  and  hon- 
esty, courage.  They  need  to  be  taught 
to  love  good  literature  and  beauty  and 
God's  world. 

There  is  an  enlightening,  if  some- 
what sobering  picture  of  what  our  young 
people  need  to  learn,  in  the  words  of  a 
Red  Chinese  intelligence  officer  describ- 
ing captured  American  soldiers: 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 


105 


"He  has  weak  loyalties  to  his  family, 
his  community,  his  country,  his  religion, 
and  his  fellow  soldiers.  His  concept  of 
right  and  wrong  is  hazy.  He  is  basically 
materialistic  and  he  is  an  opportunist. 
He  is  ignorant  of  social  values. . . .  There 
is  little  or  no  understanding,  even  among 
university  graduates,  of  United  States' 
political  history  and  philosophy  or  of 
their  own  freedom's  safeguards  and  how 
these  allegedly  operate  within  their  own 
decadent  system." 

Our  young  people  need  to  be  taught 
many  basic  things  which  we  cannot  as- 
sume they  will  acquire  outside  the  home. 
We  need  to  teach  them  there,  and  then 
to  seek  to  spread  our  influence  and  ef- 
fectiveness into  the  schools,  the  neigh- 
borhood, the  community,  and  the  nation. 

I  love  some  words  attributed  to  Samuel 
Taylor  Coleridge  concerning  what  we 
should  teach  our  children.  It  is  said 
that  a  man  widely  known  for  his  pro- 
ductive acres,  sculptured  gardens,  and 
bright  children,  announced  in  the  pres- 
ence of  Mr.  Coleridge  that  he  would  not 
prejudice  his  children  toward  religion 
but  would  leave  them  to  decide  when 
they  grew  up.  Coleridge  is  reported  to 
have  said  to  him, 

"Bravo,  this  is  a  very  progressive  idea. 
Why  do  you  not  apply  it  to  your  fields 
and  orchards  and  gardens  in  the  future. 
Do  not  prejudice  the  soil  to  seed  or 
weeding  or  cultivation,  the  trees  to 
pruning  or  thinning,  the  gardens  to 
bulbs  or  planning.  Why  not  see  if  they 
will  not  just  grow  up  and  decide  to  be 
what  you  hope  they  will  be?" 

Young  people  need  to  be  taught. 

In  addition  to  these  fundamentals, 
youth  need  discipline,  guidance.  They 
need  to  be  made  accountable  for  their 
actions.  They  deserve  to  have  fair  rules 
established  which  are  understood  and 
then  to  have  the  rules  consistently, 
fairly,  and  firmly  administered. 

Youth  need  high  ideals  and  to  be 
somehow  moved  to  want  to  have  the 
will  power  and  the  resoluteness  to 
identify  with  them  and  to  serve  them. 
We  talk  here  of  character,  of  the  con- 
victions and  courage  and  conscience 
which  combine  to  produce  and  preserve 
much  that  is  good  about  mankind. 

A  conference  or  two  ago  President 
McKay  made  a  statement  which  has  been 


echoed  all  over  the  nation,  and  I  sus- 
pect beyond  its  borders,  when  he  said 
that  flabbiness  of  character  and  not 
flabbiness  of  muscle  lies  at  the  root  of 
many  of  the  problems  of  American 
youth. 

Young  people  need  to  know  that  self- 
esteem  is  a  prized  possession  and  that 
self-esteem  comes  only  when  we  live  a 
life  consistent  with  honor  and  with  high 
principles  which  we  know  to  be  good. 
As  a  boy  I  had  the  blessing  of  a  won- 
derful mother  who  moved  me  to  read 
and  to  memorize.  One  of  the  most 
fruitful  sources  of  wisdom  that  I  found 
were  the  writings  of  Seneca,  a  Roman 
senator.  Then  one  day  I  read  the  life 
of  Seneca.  Until  then  I  had  thought 
him  to  be  one  of  the  strongest  and  finest 
and  most  admirable  men  with  whom  I 
had  become  acquainted  through  litera- 
ture. But  I  read  in  that  book  how 
Seneca,  lacking  the  courage  of  his  con- 
victions, had  stood  on  the  floor  of  the 
Roman  Senate  and  justified  Nero's 
murder  of  his  own  mother.  I  fell  out  of 
love  with  Seneca  at  that  moment.  I 
admired  him  no  longer.  My  experience 
and  witness  is  that  youth  generally  have 
little  admiration  and  confidence  for 
adults  who  say  one  thing  and  do  an- 
other, however  superior  their  intellect 
may  be. 

Activity  is  one  of  the  pressing  needs 
of  youth  everywhere.  They  need  to  be 
permitted  to  express  themselves  freely, 
creatively,  responsibly,  in  wholesome 
action,  under  good  leadership,  in  favor- 
able circumstances,  with  worthwhile 
companions.  I  listened  to  a  discussion 
between  two  wardens  in  our  city  at  a 
convention.  They  agreed  that  there 
were  two  things  almost  invariably  true 
about  the  inmates  under  their  charge: 

1.  They  had  never  had  a  chance  to 
take  part  in  organized  activity  under 
good  leadership. 

2.  They  had  never  learned  responsible 
attitudes  toward  others. 

Well,  someone  has  to  be  the  scout- 
master; someone  must  be  the  quorum 
adviser;  someone  needs  to  lead  the 
chorus  and  to  be  the  coach.  Someone 
has  to  be  interested  enough  if  our  youth 
are  going  to  get  what  they  need  to  ma- 
ture happily.  There  has  to  be  someone 
to  lead  them.    Perhaps  it  is  not  inap- 


106 

Sunday,  April  9 

propriate  to  quote  some  words  already 
alluded  to  in  this  conference, 

"If  not  by  me,  by  whom?" 

Young  people  need  to  be  blessed  with 
the  opportunity  to  work.  They  must 
learn  that  there  is  no  excellence  without 
labor. 

Young  people  need  to  find  faith  in 
God  and  immortality,  in  the  purpose- 
fulness  of  life  and  the  perpetuation  of 
human  personality  beyond  the  grave. 
They  need  to  know  that  families  can  be 
eternal.  They  need  to  know  for  them- 
selves the  sacredness  of  service  and  the 
holiness  of  prayer.  People  who  really 
know  youth  and  who  have  had  reason 
to  assess  some  of  their  problems  are 
saying  wherever  I  go  that  what  the 
young  lack  most  importantly  is  faith 
and  courage;  faith  and  courage — in- 
gredients with  which  they  may  best  be 
endowed  in  the  home,  tools  which  are 
not  passed  out  in  college,  weapons 
which  are  not  to  be  discovered  in  any 
military  arsenal. 

Finally,  I  mention  that  in  all  of  these 
things  and  in  every  other  worthwhile 
objective  for  them,  youth  need  the  exam- 
ple of  adults  whom  they  can  honor 
and  revere.  In  listening  to  young  people 
all  over  the  land  I  have  heard  very  few 
references  to  the  missile  gap.  It  is  not 
this  gap  that  worries  youth,  but  the  gap 
between  precept  and  performance,  be- 
tween knowledge  and  conduct,  between 
ritual  and  righteousness,  between  what 
the  adults  say  and  what  the  adults 
do.  Youth,  after  all,  is  responsive 
to  the  values  which  the  adult  gen- 
erations in  fact — not  in  theory — exalt. 
Said  Plato,  "What  is  honored  in 
a  country  will  be  cultivated  there." 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

And,  we  might  add,  in  a  home  and  fam- 
ily, in  a  neighborhood,  a  community, 
a  church. 

God  bless  us  that  we  may  recognize 
their  great  value  and  potential,  that  we 
may  understand  their  problems,  and  that 
we  may  offer  to  them,  out  of  the  sin- 
cerity of  our  love  for  them,  what  they 
need.  In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy.  The  Choir  and 
congregation  will  now  sing,  "Redeemer 
of  Israel,"  with  Richard  P.  Condie 
conducting.  After  the  singing  Elder 
Nathan  Eldon  Tanner  will  address  us. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in 
singing  the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Ever  since  the  opening  of  the  mission 
in  Great  Britain,  there  has  also  been  a 
president  of  the  European  Mission.  It 
is  presided  over  presently  by  Elder  Alvin 
R.  Dyer,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 
Recently  the  European  Mission  was  di- 
vided, and  Brother  Nathan  Eldon 
Tanner  was  placed  at  the  head  of  the 
West  European  Mission,  including 
Great  Britain,  France,  Holland,  or  that 
part  of  the  European  Mission  formerly 
presided  over  by  Elder  Dyer. 

Elder  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner,  As- 
sistant to  the  Twelve,  will  now  address 
us. 


ELDER  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay,  President  Moyle, 
brethren  and  sisters:  I  am  truly  thankful 
for  the  opportunity  of  being  here  with 
you  and  attending  this  wonderful  con- 
ference where  one  feels  so  keenly  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  the  spirit  of 
brotherhood  and  can  enjoy  this  lovely 
music  by  the  choirs  which  we  have  with 
us  in  our  conference. 
I  feel  very  humble  this  morning  and 


earnestly  request  an  interest  in  your 
faith  and  prayers  and  pray  that  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  attend  me  as  I 
stand  here  before  you  this  beautiful 
Sabbath  morning.  What  a  wonderful 
experience  it  is  to  listen  to  our  great 
Prophet,  David  O.  McKay— truly  a 
prophet  of  God — and  President  Moyle, 
and  the  other  leaders  of  the  Church  and 
kingdom  of  God  here  upon  this  earth. 


ELDER  NATHAN 

I  am  sure  that  we  all  have  missed 
President  Clark  and  his  testimony  and 
counsel,  and  pray  for  his  well-being. 

Where  else  in  all  the  world,  my 
brothers  and  sisters,  are  people  privileged 
to  listen  to  apostles  and  prophets? 
What  a  privilege  we  have  of  being  and 
using  our  best  efforts  to  help  others  be, 
".  .  .  no  more  strangers  and  foreigners, 
but  fellow  citizens  with  the  saints,  and 
of  the  household  of  God. 

"And  are  built  upon  the  foundation  of 
the  apostles  and  prophets,  Jesus  Christ 
himself  being  the  chief  corner  stone." 
(Eph.  2:19-20.) 

I  am  very  happy  to  have  this  oppor- 
tunity this  morning  of  bringing  to  you 
assembled  here  and  to  those  parents 
and  loved  ones  wherever  they  may  be, 
who  are  listening  in,  greetings  and  glad 
tidings  from  Elder  and  Sister  Hugh  B. 
Brown,  Elder  and  Sister  Alvin  R.  Dyer, 
those  dedicated  mission  presidents  and 
their  wives,  who  are  doing  such  a 
wonderful  job  with  the  missionaries; 
that  wonderful  corps  of  faithful,  ener- 
getic missionaries,  and  all  of  those  fine 
people  whom  we  saw  in  those  delightful 
countries  of  Great  Britain,  France,  and 
the  Netherlands. 

We  have  here  attending  these  con- 
ference meetings  at  this  time  President 
Selvoy  J.  Boyer  of  the  London  Temple, 
representatives  of  the  five  stake  presi- 
dencies and  two  bishops  from  each  stake. 
I  appreciate  more  than  I  can  possibly 
say  the  signal  honor  and  privilege 
afforded  Sister  Tanner  and  myself  of 
being  able  to  accompany  President  and 
Sister  McKay  and  their  fine  son  and 
daughter  and  their  party  to  London, 
England,  where  we  were  privileged  to 
participate  in  the  dedication  of  the 
magnificent  Hyde  Park  chapel  with  its 
lovely  organ,  which  Sir  Thomas  Bennett 
so  ably  described  to  you  yesterday. 

There  we  listened  to  that  stirring 
testimony  and  message  of  the  Prophet  to 
the  world  and  to  that  inspiring  dedica- 
tory prayer.  It  was  a  rare  experience. 
We  also  felt  the  influence  of  the  inter- 
national Singing  Mothers  under  the  able 
leadership  of  Sister  Florence  J.  Madsen, 
accompanied  by  Brother  Frank  W.  As- 
per,  all  of  whom  were  so  well  received 
throughout  the  British  Isles. 

I  feel  that  President  McKay  would 


ELDON  TANNER  107 

wish  me  to  give  you  a  brief  report  of 
my  assignment  and  conditions  as  I  found 
them  among  the  Saints  where  we  went. 
As  most  of  you  know,  Elders  Brown, 
Dyer,  and  I  were  given  the  very  pleasant 
assignment  and  privilege  of  organizing 
four  new  stakes,  three  in  England  and 
one  in  Holland.  What  a  privilege  and 
honor  it  is  to  be  called  to  labor  in  the 
British  Mission,  from  which  eighty  per- 
cent of  the  membership  of  this  Church 
today  can  trace  their  ancestry.  Every 
President  of  the  Church,  except  Joseph 
the  Prophet,  has  presided  over  that  mis- 
sion. 

During  the  124  years  since  Brother 
Heber  C.  Kimball  was  called  to  preside 
over  the  British  Mission,  thousands  and 
thousands  of  British  people  have  been 
brought  into  the  Church.  Approximately 
60,000  of  these  devoted  members  have 
emigrated  to  make  their  homes  in 
America,  thousands  of  whom  crossed 
the  plains  to  be  with  the  Saints,  and 
many  of  whom  willingly  gave  their 
lives  in  the  struggle.  Thousands  of 
others  in  the  Church  are  proud  to  trace 
their  ancestry  to  other  countries  in  Eu- 
rope from  which  many  of  our  leaders 
have  come,  while  thousands  of  loyal, 
faithful  members  who  remained  in  their 
native  lands  have  carried  on  under  many 
trials  and  tribulations,  contributing 
much  to  the  building  up  of  the  king- 
dom of  God  at  home. 

Brother  Sonne  gave  you  a  very  fine 
review  of  the  missionary  work  in  the 
land.  You  will  be  interested  also  in 
knowing  the  tremendous  growth  that 
has  taken  place  in  the  Church  in  those 
areas  since  President  McKay  pronounced 
a  new  era  and  since  the  dedication  of 
the  temple  in  1958,  most  of  which  has 
taken  place  within  the  last  year  and  a 
half. 

Although  I  haven't  a  complete  picture, 
I  should  like  to  give  you  some  infor- 
mation which  I  found  most  interesting. 
During  that  short  period,  the  Church 
population  in  Great  Britain  has  in- 
creased from  approximately  10,000  to 
approximately  20,000,  or  nearly  double. 
The  number  of  missionaries  has  in- 
creased from  150  to  500.  There  was 
only  one  mission  in  the  British  Isles 
known  as  the  British  Mission.  Today 
there  are  four — namely,  the  British,  the 


108 

Sunday,  April  9 

Central  British,  the  North  British,  and 
the  Scottish-Irish.  There  were  no  stakes 
then,  while  today  there  are  four  stakes. 
In  order  of  organization  they  are,  the 
Manchester,  London,  Leicester,  and 
Leeds  stakes. 

The  European  Mission,  including  the 
British  Isles,  was  composed  of  eleven 
missions  when  President  Dyer  was 
called  to  preside  over  it  a  year  and  a 
half  ago.  Today  this  same  area  is 
composed  of  eighteen  missions  and  five 
stakes.  The  European  Mission  has  been 
divided,  as  President  McKay  told  you 
this  morning,  leaving  President  Dyer 
still  with  eleven  missions,  though  seven 
have  been  placed  in  the  new  West  Euro- 
pean Mission. 

The  West  European  Mission  consists 
of  the  four  missions  on  the  British  Isles 
which  I  have  named,  the  French,  the 
French  East,  and  the  Netherlands  mis- 
sions, over  which  I  have  the  honor  of 
being  called  to  preside. 

I  should  tell  you  that  the  Holland 
Stake  was  organized  March  12 — the 
first  stake  to  be  organized  on  the  con- 
tinent of  Europe.  This  makes  a  total 
of  five  stakes  and  seven  missions  in 
this  area. 

While  this  tremendous  growth  is  tak- 
ing place,  it  is  impossible  to  keep  up 
with  the  building  program.  In  fact, 
the  lack  of  buildings  is  very  serious. 
We  cannot  begin  to  accommodate  the 
new  converts  as  they  are  being  brought 
into  the  Church.  In  some  branches 
there  is  only  standing  room  for  some 
of  the  people  as  they  attend  the  Sacra- 
ment services,  and  they  stand  during 
the  whole  of  the  service. 

I  am  pleased  to  report,  however,  that 
the  Church,  through  the  building  com- 
mittee, is  doing  all  possible  there,  as 
elsewhere  in  the  Church,  to  cope  with 
the  situation.  In  spite  of  the  tre- 
mendous growth  that  is  taking  place  in 
these  areas,  I  should  like  to  point  out 
the  great  need  for  more  and  more 
missionaries.  In  the  Central  British 
Mission  there  are  eighty  important 
cities  or  boroughs,  with  populations  rang- 
ing from  25,000  to  over  250,000,  in  which 
we  have  no  missionaries  whatever. 

In  the  British  Mission  there  are  136 
such  cities  with  no  missionaries,  while 
in  the  French  East  Mission  we  have 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

fifty-five  cities  and  in  the  French  Mis- 
sion 147  cities  without  missionaries. 
This  means  that  in  these  four  missions 
alone  we  have  over  400  important  cities 
and  boroughs  with  populations  of  ap- 
proximately 25,000  and  over  without  any 
missionaries  whatever. 

While  in  the  West  European  Mission, 
Sister  Tanner  and  I  had  the  rare 
privilege  of  traveling  with  Elder  and 
Sister  Hugh  B.  Brown,  who  have  spent 
so  many  years  in  missionary  work  over 
there,  and  with  President  and  Sister 
Dyer,  and  of  meeting  and  associating 
with  the  mission  presidents  and  many 
of  the  missionaries,  and  aiding  in  the 
organization  of  new  stakes. 

During  our  travels  we  met  with 
thousands  of  the  Saints.  In  fact,  at 
the  organization  of  the  Leeds  Stake  we 
had  in  attendance  2,080  people.  It 
was  a  great  inspiration  to  me  to  meet 
with  the  missionaries  in  their  confer- 
ences and  to  hear  them  bear  their  fer- 
vent testimonies  to  the  truthfulness  of 
the  gospel  and  to  have  the  privilege  of 
interviewing  them  and  feeling  their  fine 
spirit. 

After  attending  one  of  these  meetings, 
Sister  Tanner  said  that  when  she  went 
into  that  meeting  and  saw  all  those 
young  missionaries — most  of  them  from 
nineteen  to  twenty-two  years  of  age — 
she  thought,  "What  can  these  young- 
sters do  in  this  great  work?"  You  know, 
they  are  much  younger  than  they  were 
when  she  was  that  age.  But  she  said  as 
she  left  that  meeting,  after  listening  to 
them  bear  their  testimonies  and  expound 
the  principles  of  the  gospel,  she  had 
watched  those  boys  grow  into  mature 
men,  able  and  prepared  to  take  the  gospel 
message  of  salvation  into  the  world.  It  is 
thrilling  indeed  to  listen  to  this  great 
army  of  missionaries — both  elders  and 
sisters — bear  their  testimonies  and  to  see 
their  enthusiasm  and  devotion  as  they  go 
forward  unselfishly  with  only  one  thing 
in  mind,  and  that  is  to  bear  testimony 
to  the  world  that  the  gospel  has  been 
restored  through  a  prophet  in  these  the 
latter  days;  that  God  is  a  personal  God 
of  body,  parts,  and  passions;  and  that 
we  accept  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Living 
Son  of  the  Living  God  and  the  Savior 
of  the  world. 

As  they  teach  repentance  and  the 


ELDER  NATHAN 

truths  of  the  restored  gospel,  they  en- 
courage the  people  to  follow  the  ad- 
monition of  Moroni  when  he  said,  "And 
when  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  I 
would  exhort  you  that  ye  would  ask 
God,  the  Eternal  Father,  in  the  name 
of  Christ,  if  these  things  are  not  true; 
and  if  ye  shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart, 
with  real  intent,  having  faith  in  Christ, 
he  will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto 
you,  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

"And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
ye  may  know  the  truth  of  all  things." 
(Moroni  10:4-5.) 

In  no  other  Church  will  you  find  an 
army  of  young  men  prepared  to  go  into 
the  world  to  carry  the  gospel  plan  of 
life  and  salvation.  There  are  approxi- 
mately eight  thousand  missionaries  in 
the  field  today  who  are  working  night 
and  day,  and  who  often  fast  and  pray 
to  their  Heavenly  Father  that  they  will 
do  their  work  and  carry  forth  the  gospel 
message  in  a  way  that  will  be  accept- 
able to  him  and  bring  the  people  to  a 
knowledge  and  acceptance  of  the  truth. 

I  call  upon  the  world  to  hearken  to 
their  message,  and  without  prejudice 
put  it  to  the  test  by  praying  earnestly 
to  God  the  Eternal  Father.  Many  of 
these  young  men  have  asked  their  mis- 
sions to  be  extended  beyond  the  normal 
time  so  that  they  might  continue  in  the 
service  of  their  Heavenly  Father  and  of 
their  fellow  men.  It  is  their  hope  that 
those  who  are  seeking  for  the  truth 
might  hear  and  accept  it. 

You  parents  of  these  missionaries  have 
every  reason  to  be  humbly  proud,  and 
I  appeal  to  those  parents  whose  chil- 
dren are  not  yet  old  enough  to  fill 
missions  to  set  about  now  to  teach  and 
train  and  to  prepare  them  in  mind  and 
in  attitude  to  accept  a  call  so  that  they 
might  go  forward  as  ambassadors  of 
the  Lord.  This  is  a  special  call  to  the 
members  of  the  restored  Church.  As 
the  Lord  said,  "Go  ye  into  all  the  world, 
preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature, 
acting  in  the  authority  which  I  have 
given  you,  baptizing  in  the  name  of  the 
Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy 
Ghost."  (D&C  68:8.) 

As  we  interviewed  dozens  of  men  to 
fill  offices  in  these  stakes  and  wards, 
both  in  England  and  in  Holland,  every 
man  without  exception  expressed  his 


ELDON  TANNER  109 

gratitude  for  his  membership  in  the 
Church  and  his  appreciation  to  those 
who  had  brought  the  gospel  to  him  and 
his  family.  They  also  expressed  their 
willingness  and  desire  to  accept  office 
and  to  labor  in  the  Church  and  devote 
whatever  time  was  necessary  to  carry  out 
the  assignments. 

Among  those  selected  as  members  of 
stake  presidencies  and  bishoprics,  we 
found  industrialists,  contractors,  teach- 
ers, accountants,  merchants,  men  in  the 
Air  Force  and  in  the  Navy,  builders, 
and  even  the  humblest  of  laborers. 
Though  the  majority  of  these  men  had 
been  in  the  Church  less  than  ten  years, 
and  many  of  them  from  one  to  five 
years,  they  are  men  with  testimonies 
of  the  truthfulness  of  the  work  and  of 
the  joy  of  service.  All  were  so  thankful 
for  what  the  Church  meant  to  them  in 
their  lives  and  in  their  homes. 

They  expressed  their  humility  and  feel 
keenly  their  lack  of  experience,  but  feel, 
as  Nephi  expressed  himself  as  he  pre- 
pared to  go  back  and  get  the  plates: 
"I  will  go  and  do  the  things  which  the 
Lord  hath  commanded,  for  I  know  that 
the  Lord  giveth  no  commandments  unto 
the  children  of  men,  save  he  shall  pre- 
pare a  way  for  them  that  they  may 
accomplish  the  thing  which  he  com- 
mandeth  them."  (1  Nephi  3:7.)  And 
they  have  the  knowledge  and  belief 
that  they  in  and  of  themselves  can 
accomplish  nothing,  but  with  the  help 
of  the  Lord  they  will  succeed. 

One  of  the  finest  meetings  Sister 
Tanner  and  I  attended  was  a  meeting 
of  the  stake  missionaries  in  Leicester 
Stake,  where  the  stake  mission  president 
had  been  in  the  Church  only  three 
years.  The  way  he  conducted,  the 
lovely  testimonies  that  were  borne,  and 
the  devotion  of  those  missionaries — all 
young  in  the  Church — were  most  in- 
spiring. They  all  stood  ready,  and  ex- 
pressed their  desire  to  spend  hours  every 
week  teaching  and  sharing  the  gospel 
with  the  people  in  their  communities. 

In  conclusion  I  should  like  to  join  with 
those  who  have  spoken  in  this  confer- 
ence and  with  those  devoted  mission- 
aries, both  full-time,  stake,  and  district 
missionaries,  in  bearing  my  testimony 
to  all  who  are  listening.  I  should  like 
to  do  this  by  telling  an  experience  of 


110 

Sunday,  April  9 

Joseph  Smith  right  here  on  the  American 
continent  in  the  year  1820,  which  to 
me  is  one  of  the  most  important  and 
thrilling  happenings  since  the  resurrec- 
tion of  our  Savior  Jesus  Christ,  and  one 
with  which  all  members  of  the  Church 
are  very  familiar,  and  which  is  being 
told  by  the  missionaries  throughout  the 
world. 

It  is  the  story  of  a  young  boy,  not  yet 
fifteen  years  of  age,  who  desired  to  know 
which  of  all  the  churches  was  true.  He 
knew  that  God  could  not  be  the  author 
of  all  the  confusion  where  each  church 
was  zealously  trying  to  establish  its 
own  tenets  and  disprove  others.  In 
order  to  get  the  answer  direct,  he  went 
alone  to  ask  God  in  prayer.  As  he  knelt 
in  the  grove  by  himself,  he  saw  a  pillar 
of  light  exactly  over  his  head,  which 
was  above  the  brightness  of  the  sun,  and 
he  saw  two  Personages  whose  bright- 
ness and  glory  defied  all  description, 
standing  above  him  in  the  air. 

One  of  them  said  to  Joseph,  "This  is 
my  Beloved  Son.  Hear  Him!"  As  soon 
as  Joseph  could  speak  he  asked  which 
church  he  should  join,  and  he  was  told 
to  "join  none  of  them,  for  .  .  .  they  draw 
near  to  me  with  their  lips,  but  their 
hearts  are  far  from  me,  they  teach  for 
doctrines  the  commandments  of  men, 
having  a  form  of  godliness,  but  they 
deny  the  power  thereof."  (Joseph  Smith 
2:17,  19.) 

As  he  left  this  grove,  though  he  had 
been  taught  that  God  was  just  a  spirit, 
he  knew  as  he  knew  that  he  lived  that 
God  the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

were  personal  beings,  and  he  bore  testi- 
mony that  they  had  appeared  to  him 
and  had  instructed  him.  Though  only 
an  obscure  boy,  not  yet  fifteen  years  of 
age,  he  was  ridiculed  and  persecuted  by 
ministers  and  men  of  high  standing, 
who  told  him  that  there  were  no  such 
things  as  visions  or  revelations  in  these 
days;  that  all  these  things  had  ceased 
with  the  apostles,  and  that  there  would 
never  be  any  more  of  them. 

However,  though  only  a  boy,  he 
maintained  that  he  had  beheld  a  vision, 
and  all  the  persecution  under  heaven 
could  not  make  it  otherwise.  It  was 
through  him  that  the  gospel  was  re- 
stored, and  the  Church  and  kingdom  of 
God,  known  as  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  was  estab- 
lished in  which  we  have  apostles  and 
prophets  and  the  priesthood  of  God 
with  our  beloved  Prophet  David  O. 
McKay  at  the  head  of  Christ's  Church 
here  upon  the  earth. 

This  is  my  witness  to  you  this  day, 
and  I  do  hope  and  pray  that  we  will  all 
go  forth,  keeping  all  of  the  command- 
ments of  God,  bearing  this  testimony  to 
the  world,  as  our  missionaries  are  doing 
so  effectively,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner,  Asso- 
ciate to  the  Twelve,  has  just  addressed 
us.  Our  next  speaker  will  be  Elder  Ezra 
Taft  Benson  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Someone  has  said  there  is  a  new  Beat- 
itude which  reads:  "Blessed  is  he  who 
expects  nothing,  for  he  shall  not  be 
disappointed." 

I  stand  before  you  this  morning  in 
deep  humility  and  gratitude,  my  broth- 
ers and  sisters,  rejoicing  in  the  opportun- 
ities and  blessings  which  have  been 
mine  to  be  in  attendance  at  this 
conference.  With  all  my  heart  I  endorse 
the  counsel  that  has  been  given  and  add 
my  witness  to  those  testimonies  already 
borne. 


I  think  it  was  Edgar  A.  Guest  who 
said: 

"Some  folks  leave  home  for  money 

And  some  leave  home  for  fame, 
Some  seek  skies  always  sunny, 

And  some  depart  in  shame. 
I  care  not  what  the  reason 

Men  travel  east  or  west, 
Or  what  the  time  or  season — 

The  home-town  is  the  best." 

I  am  so  happy,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, to  be  with  you  today  back  here  in 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


111 


the  bosom  of  the  Church,  and  to 
realize  that  I  can  probably  remain  here 
beyond  the  end  of  this  conference  session 
this  afternoon. 

As  I  drove  west  a  few  days  ago  from 
my  home  of  eight  years  in  Washington 
to  these  valleys  of  the  mountains,  I 
caught  myself  singing  many  of  the  old 
familiar  Mormon  hymns:  "O  Ye  Moun- 
tains High,"  "Beautiful  Zion  for  Me." 
I  had  a  great  joy  in  my  heart,  and  I  had 
a  great  surge  of  freedom,  I  think  aug- 
mented somewhat  by  the  fact  that  I 
was  behind  the  wheel  of  my  own  car 
after  riding  behind  government  chauf- 
feurs for  eight  years. 

It  is  good  to  be  home.  There  is  one 
expression  that  has  become  very  dear 
to  me.  It  has  been  repeated  over  and 
over  again,  I  guess,  hundreds  of  times 
by  many  people  during  the  last  few 
days:  "Brother  Benson,  it  is  good  to 
have  you  home  again."  It  isn't  half  as 
good  to  have  me  home  as  it  is  for  me  to 
be  home.  It  is  a  joy,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  to  be  here  to  enjoy  the  warm 
welcome  and  the  sweet  spirit  of  brother- 
hood and  fellowship  that  we  have  in 
the  Church.  I  know  it  is  very  real. 
Of  course,  it  isn't  what  it  should  be. 
It  isn't  what  it  could  be.  It  isn't  what 
it  will  be,  as  we  continue  to  increase 
our  faith  and  live  more  fully  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  But  it  is  truly  a  sweet 
spirit. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  privilege  of  being 
back  again  associating  with  my  brethren 
of  the  General  Authorities.  There  is  no 
sweeter  association  in  all  this  world 
among  men  than  the  association  we 
enjoy  as  a  body  of  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church.  And  I  say  this  after 
having  traveled  six  million  miles  in 
forty-two  nations  during  the  last  eight 
years.  And  I  am  grateful  to  be  a  part 
of  this  brotherhood,  this  fellowship,  this 
spirit,  which  is  part  of  the  Church  and 
kingdom  of  God. 

I  express  my  gratitude  this  morning 
for  the  interest  that  has  been  shown  in 
my  activities  during  recent  years,  for  the 
support  that  has  been  given  to  my 
humble  efforts.  These  have  been  eight 
rather  difficult,  eventful,  and  I  must 
say,  rewarding  years.  I  have  had  a 
prayer  in  my  heart  constantly  that  I 
would  never  do  anything  that  would 


hurt  the  Church,  or  my  great  country — 
your  country. 

I  have  missed  the  association  of  the 
brethren  of  the  General  Authorities.  I 
think  the  happiest  hour  each  week  has 
been  on  Sunday  when  I  had  the  pleas- 
ure of  reading  the  minutes  of  the  weekly 
meeting  of  the  First  Presidency  and  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  held  in  the 
upper  room  of  the  Salt  Lake  Temple.  I 
am  grateful  to  President  McKay  for 
kindly  granting  me  this  privilege. 

I  have  missed  the  weekly  travels  to 
the  stakes  and  missions  of  the  Church, 
and  yet  I  have  had  the  glorious  privilege 
of  meeting  the  Saints  in  many  parts  of 
the  world.  I  have  had  a  conviction, 
through  all  this  period,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  I  was  where  the  Lord  wanted 
me  to  be.  I  hope  and  pray  that  I  will 
always  be  where  he  wants  me  to  be.  I 
have  had  no  doubt  of  that  since  Presi- 
dent McKay  in  November  1952,  realiz- 
ing that  there  might  be  a  request  for  me 
to  occupy  an  important  government 
position,  said  to  me:  "Brother  Benson, 
my  mind  is  clear,  and  if  the  opportunity 
comes  in  the  proper  spirit,  I  think  you 
should  accept." 

The  opportunity  came  in  the  proper 
spirit  on  a  high  spiritual  plane,  and  I 
accepted.  We  have  a  responsibility  as 
American  citizens  to  respond  to  the  calls 
of  Presidents  of  the  United  States.  As 
a  humble  stake  president  I  had  re- 
sponded to  such  a  call  from  President 
Franklin  Delano  Roosevelt  and  served 
for  some  time  on  a  four-man  national 
agricultural  advisory  committee  during 
the  1940's. 

But  the  thing  I  am  most  grateful  for 
this  morning  is  the  faith  and  prayers 
that  have  been  exercised  in  my  behalf 
during  the  last  eight  years — first  of  all 
by  my  brethren  of  the  General  Author- 
ities, by  the  members  of  my  own  quor- 
um, by  the  First  Presidency  and  others, 
by  my  devoted  family,  and  my  com- 
panion who  always  has  come  to  the 
rescue  especially  during  crucial  periods 
— and  we  have  had  a  few.  I  shall  ever 
be  grateful  for  the  faith  and  prayers  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  throughout  the 
Church  and  for  the  faith  and  prayers  of 
the  people  of  all  faiths  from  all  over 
the  free  world.  Hundreds,  yes,  thousands 
of  letters,  telegrams,  telephone  calls,  and 


112 

Sunday,  April  9 

other  messages  have  given  ample  evi- 
dence of  the  great  amount  of  faith  and 
prayer  that  has  been  exercised  in  my 
behalf.  Without  this  faith  and  without 
this  help  I  am  sure  I  could  not  possibly 
have  accomplished  even  the  small 
amount  that  I  have  been  able  to  do. 

Yes,  it  has  been  a  politically  sensitive 
position.  There  have  been  honest  dif- 
ferences. Thank  God  we  live  in  a  land 
where  men  and  women  can  differ 
honestly  without  fear.  I  have  been  in 
countries  where  that  is  not  possible.  I 
know  that  some  of  the  differences  have 
probably  been  inspired  by  political  ex- 
pediency, but  on  the  whole  I  think  they 
have  been  honest  differences. 

There  has  been  criticism  too,  but  I 
am  frank  and  honest  in  saying  that  it 
has  never  bothered  me  very  much,  be- 
cause in  my  heart  I  have  been  convinced 
I  was  doing  the  thing  that  seemed  to  me, 
at  least,  to  be  right,  and  the  thing 
which  our  mail  and  other  evidence  also 
indicated  represented  the  views  of  the 
overwhelming  majority  of  the  American 
people.  And  I  have  nothing  in  my 
heart,  nor  have  I  had,  except  a  love  for 
the  people.  I  have  had  no  bitterness.  I 
have  no  bitterness  today.  At  times  when 
the  wonderful  representatives  of  the 
press,  who  have  been  such  a  help,  have 
said,  "Surely,  you  must  hate  these  people 
who  criticize  you,"  I  have  usually  re- 
plied, "I  do  not  hate  any  living  soul. 
I  love  all  of  our  Father's  children.  True, 
I  love  some  more  than  others." 

But  honestly,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
I  have  had  no  feeling  of  bitterness  or 
hatred  in  my  heart,  for  which  I  am 
deeply  grateful  because  I  have  prayed — 
we  have  prayed  as  a  family — that  we 
could  avoid  any  spirit  of  hatred  or 
bitterness.  I  love  our  Father's  children. 
I  think  the  great  rank  and  file  of  them 
are  good.  Oh,  they  have  weaknesses — 
all  of  us  do — but  as  I  have  visited  them 
in  forty-two  nations,  I  found  that  they 
are  very  much  the  same.  True,  some 
of  them  have  bad  leaders.  Some  of  them 
have  lost  that  which  is  priceless,  yea, 
even  more  priceless  than  life  itself — 
their  freedom,  their  right  to  choose,  their 
right  to  make  their  own  decisions.  But 
on  the  whole  they  are  good  people. 

I  like  to  think  they  have  five  things 
in  common — five  aspirations,  five  hopes. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

I  have  found  that  universally  they  long 
for  peace,  and  I  am  confident  that  if 
the  leaders  of  this  world  or  of  the 
nations  of  the  earth  respond  to  the  will 
of  the  people,  they  will  work  and  labor 
and  pray  for  peace. 

Secondly,  they  want  to  live  as  brothers, 
as  neighbors,  and  friends.  Third,  they 
love  their  homes  and  families,  and  on 
the  whole  they  want  to  be  good  parents. 
Fourth,  they  want  to  raise  their  stand- 
ards of  living.  They  want  to  enjoy 
some  of  the  comforts  of  life,  some  of  the 
opportunities  for  development  and 
growth  and  culture.  And  fifth,  they  de- 
sire to  do  good. 

Now,  most  of  these  people  have  been 
from  the  rural  areas,  but  keep  in  mind 
that  the  rural  people  of  this  world  rep- 
resent more  than  half  of  the  total  popu- 
lation. They  are  people  who  have  had 
their  feet  in  the  soil,  who  have  been 
close  to  the  land,  who  live  and  work  in 
the  country,  and  they  are  solid,  sub- 
stantial people,  not  easily  stampeded, 
who  probably  know  about  as  well  as 
any  other  segment  of  our  population 
that  "as  ye  sow,  so  shall  ye  reap." 

I  am  grateful  for  the  people  I  have 
worked  with.  I  am  grateful  that  my  lot 
has  been  cast  in  large  measure  with  the 
rural  people  of  the  world.  I  am  grate- 
ful for  the  support  I  have  had  from 
many  of  these  wonderful  people,  from 
the  wonderful  group  of  men  who  have 
been  associated  with  me  in  the  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture,  for  their  spirit  of 
loyalty  and  unity  and  devoted  service. 
I  am  very  grateful  for  the  support  I 
have  had  from  the  Chief  Executive 
during  these  eight  years,  for  his  loyalty, 
for  his  deep  spirituality,  for  his  deter- 
mination to  do  that  which  he  believed 
ot  be  right,  and  to  approve  my  doing 
so  as  we.  11.  Also  I  am  grateful  that  he  re- 
mained true  to  his  promise  that  I  would 
never  be  asked  to  support  any  program 
or  policy  which  I  did  not  believe  in, 
and  I  am  sure  he  knew  in  his  own 
heart  that  I  would  not  do  it  anyway. 

I  say  I  love  our  Father's  children. 
Hundreds  and  thousands  of  them  I  have 
contacted  during  the  last  eight  years. 
Last  night  in  the  priesthood  meeting 
we  heard  about  the  great  "share  the 
gospel"  program  and  the  referral  pro- 
gram.  I  have  the  names  of  some  9,000 


ELDER  EZRA 

men,  approximately,  with  whom  I  have 
had  personal  contact  in  an  official 
capacity.  I  hope  to  give  referral  cards 
for  them.  I  would  like  to  have  every 
one  of  them  hear  the  gospel.  I  wish 
that  all  of  our  Father's  children  might 
enjoy  the  blessings  that  come  through 
an  acceptance  and  living  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ. 

Yes,  even  when  I  was  in  Russia,  I 
expressed  the  hope  to  the  Russian  lead- 
ers, our  hosts,  that  after  my  tour  of 
duty  was  over  for  the  government  that 
I  might  have  the  opportunity  of  return- 
ing to  Russia  and  being  privileged  to 
hold  meetings  to  discuss  my  philosophy 
of  life  and  to  talk  about  things  spiritual 
with  the  wonderful  Russian  people.  Of 
course,  I  was  not  given  a  promise.  The 
leaders  of  communism  are  afraid  of  the 
light  of  truth.  But  it  is  my  hope  and 
prayer,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
some  time  in  some  way  the  door  may  be 
opened  in  all  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
that  they  might  receive  the  message  of 
the  restored  gospel;  that  they  might 
enjoy  the  blessings  of  freedom  under  a 
system  similar  to  what  we  enjoy  here  in 
this  great  land — a  system  that  has 
brought  us  so  much  joy  and  happiness 
and  so  many  of  the  good  things  of  life 
— a  system  based  on  freedom  of  choice, 
on  the  private  ownership  of  property, 
on  the  right  to  exchange  our  goods  and 
services  with  our  neighbors. 

Yes,  I  love  this  great  land.  It  has 
been  an  honor  to  serve.  I  know  that 
this  nation  has  a  prophetic  history.  I 
would  to  God  that  every  citizen  of  this 
land  might  read  the  Book  of  Mormon 
prayerfully  and  learn  something  of  the 
prophecies  made  regarding  this  land — 
the  promises  made  and  the  conditions 
upon  which  they  are  made — that  we 
might  as  an  American  people  so  live 
that  these  great  promises  could  be  fully 
realized;  that  we  might  come  to  know 
that  the  Constitution  of  this  land  has 
been  established  by  men  whom  the  God 
of  heaven  raised  up  unto  that  very  pur- 
pose. 

This  nation  has  a  great  mission  to 
perform.  Here  was  prepared  the  place 
where  the  gospel  could  be  restored  as 
has  been  told  so  beautifully  by  Brother 
Tanner.  It  is  my  conviction  that  the 
world  needs,  as  it  needs  no  other  thing, 


T AFT  BENSON  113 

the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  the 
people  of  the  world  want  what  the 
gospel  will  give,  but  they  do  not  realize 
it.  They  want  the  anchor  which  the 
gospel  provides,  which  gives  them  the 
answers  to  the  problems  that  face  them; 
that  brings  them  a  feeling  of  security 
and  a  feeling  of  inner  peace.  The 
gospel  is  the  only  answer  to  the  prob- 
lems of  the  world,  my  brethren  and 
sisters.  We  may  cry  peace.  We  may 
hold  peace  conferences.  And  I  have 
nothing  but  commendation  for  those 
who  work  for  peace.  But  it  is  my  con- 
viction that  peace  must  come  from  with- 
in. It  cannot  be  imposed  by  state  man- 
date. It  can  come  only  by  following 
the  teachings  and  the  example  of  the 
Prince  of  Peace. 

Yes,  I  am  happy  to  be  back  home. 
It  is  my  hope  and  prayer  that  I  may 
be  able  to  help  in  some  small  way  to 
carry  this  glorious  message  to  our 
Father's  children.  I  have  hoped  and 
prayed  that  my  services  in  the  last 
eight  years  may  have  contributed  some- 
what to  the  great  missionary  effort  of 
the  Church.  I  wish  that  we  might  go 
to  all  the  world — to  Israel,  where  I 
have  had  the  opportunity  of  two  exten- 
sive visits  recently,  where  miracles  are 
being  performed,  where  prophecies  are 
being  fulfilled.  I  wish  we  could  go  to 
the  wonderful  Arab  countries.  I  shall 
never  forget  how  I  was  received  with 
open  arms,  how  the  hand  of  friendship 
and  fellowship  was  extended  to  me 
there. 

I  shall  never  forget  my  visit  to  Egypt, 
and  as  a  tangible  evidence  further  of 
their  love  and  friendship,  they  offered 
to  me  one  of  their  choicest  prized  gifts! — 
a  wonderful  Arabian  stallion.  I  would 
like  to  see  us  carry  the  gospel  to  India, 
to  the  humble  people  of  that  land;  to 
Pakistan,  to  China,  to  Yugoslavia,  to 
Poland,  to  Russia,  everywhere,  because, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  our  message 
is  a  world  message.  This  Church  is  a 
world  organization. 

A  hundred  and  thirty  years  ago,  when 
the  elders  were  assembled  in  conference 
to  determine  whether  the  revelations 
should  be  published  to  the  world,  the 
Lord  saw  fit  to  give  a  revelation  to  his 
Church,  which  was  also  directed  to  the 
world.    He  referred  to  it  as  his  "Pref- 


114 

Sunday,  April  9 

ace,"  or  his  "Introduction  to  his  Book 
of  Commandments,"  and  it  is  the  first 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
from  which  I  quote  these  words:  (Note 
them  carefully.) 

"Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my  church, 
saith  the  voice  of  him  who  dwells  on 
high,  and  whose  eyes  are  upon  all  men; 
yea,  verily  I  say:  Hearken  ye  people  from 
afar;  and  ye  that  are  upon  the  islands 
of  the  sea,  listen  together. 

"For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is 
unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none  to 
escape;  .  .  . 

"And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be 
unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my 
disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these 
last  days. 

"And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none 
shall  stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord  have 
commanded  them."  (D&C  1:1-2,  4-5.) 

So  our  message  is  a  world  message. 
It  is  intended  for  all  of  our  Father's 
children.  When  God  the  Father  and 
his  Son  Jesus  Christ  saw  fit  to  come  here 
to  earth  and  appear  to  a  boy  prophet, 
surely  such  a  visitation  was  intended  to 
bless  all  of  our  Father's  children. 

I  testify  to  you  today,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  the  gospel  is  true;  that 
it  has  been  restored  to  the  earth  in  its 
purity,  in  its  fulness.  Mormonism  is 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  its  fulness, 
and  therefore  Mormonism  is  true.  God 
help  us  to  live  the  gospel.  I  testify  to 
you  that  God  has  again  spoken  from 
the  heavens.  The  heavens  are  not 
sealed.  The  vision  of  God  the  Father 
and  the  Son  to  the  boy  prophet  did  in 
very  deed  occur.  God  lives.  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
not  just  a  great  moral  teacher,  as  much 
of  the  Christian  world  is  claiming,  but 
the  Savior  of  mankind,  the  very  Son  of 
God. 

Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the 
Living  God,  one  of  the  greatest  prophets 
that  has  ever  lived  upon  the  earth.  He 
was  the  instrument  in  God's  hand  in 
ushering  in  a  great  gospel  dispensation, 
the  greatest  ever,  and  the  last  of  all  in 
preparation  for  the  second  coming  of 
the  Master. 

I  bear  witness  that  these  things  are 
true,  and  that  we  have  standing  at  the 
head  of  the  Church  today  a  prophet  of 
the  Living  God,  who  holds  all  the  keys 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

and  authority  necessary  to  carry  forward 
our  Father's  program  for  the  bless- 
ing of  his  children.  As  God  lives,  I 
know  these  things  to  be  true  and  bear 
this  witness  to  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  concluded 
speaking. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  in  bringing  to  a 
conclusion  this  very  impressive  session 
of  the  One  Hundred  Thirty-First  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church,  we  take  this 
opportunity  to  express  sincere  apprecia- 
tion to  the  owners  and  managers  of  the 
many  television  and  radio  stations  that 
have  offered  their  facilities  to  us.  We 
are  grateful  for  this  great  public  serv- 
ice. Forty  cities  in  the  Intermountain 
West  and  the  Pacific  Coast  are  carrying 
the  proceedings  of  this  Conference. 
According  to  a  survey,  as  was  stated  in 
the  opening  session,  it  is  estimated  that 
well  over  a  million  people  are  listening 
in  this  morning. 

We  are  grateful  for  the  attendance  of 
all  who  are  present  in  the  Tabernacle, 
in  the  Assembly  Hall,  Barratt  Hall,  and 
in  other  gatherings  where  this  Confer- 
ence is  seen  and  heard.  We  desire  to 
acknowledge  the  presence  this  morning 
of  prominent  persons.  We  have  had 
assistance  in  trying  to  see  that  we  do  not 
miss  any.  You  will  all  be  pleased  to 
hear  that  we  are  honored  this  morning 
with  the  presence  of  Sir  Thomas  and 
Lady  Bennett  of  London.  Sir  Thomas 
is  a  true  servant  of  the  people,  a  well 
wisher  for  the  Church,  and  one  who 
has  rendered  masterful,  helpful  serv- 
ice in  building  our  temple  and  chapels 
in  Great  Britain  and  other  places.  I 
esteem  him  as  a  great  friend,  and  value 
his  friendship  highly. 

Also  present  are  Wallace  F.  Bennett, 
United  States  Senator;  Frank  E.  Moss, 
United  States  Senator;  United  States 
Congressman,  David  S.  King;  Governor 
George  Dewey  Clyde;  Secretary  of  State, 
Lamont  Toronto;  Associate  Judge  of  the 
Federal  Court,  A.  Sherman  Christenson. 
From  educational  institutions:  Ernest 
L.  Wilkinson,  president  of  the  Brigham 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


115 


Young  University;  A.  Ray  Olpin,  presi- 
dent of  the  University  of  Utah;  John 
L.  Clarke,  president  of  Ricks  College; 
William  Miller,  president  of  Weber 
College;  M.  Lynn  Bennion,  superin- 
tendent of  Salt  Lake  City  Schools.  We 
have  others  listed  here:  Daryl  Chase, 
Utah  State  University;  Dr.  Arthur  F. 
Bruhn  of  Dixie  College;  Floyd  Holm  of 
Snow  College;  Royden  C.  Braithwaite 
of  the  College  of  Southern  Utah.  I 
haven't  seen  Dr.  Howard  McDonald, 
but  he  is  usually  with  us,  and  so  also 
Dr.  John  T.  Wahlquist,  formerly  of 
Salt  Lake,  now  president  of  San  Jose 
State  College;  J.  L.  Nelson,  president  of 
the  Trade  Technical  Schools;  and  Wil- 
son W.  Sorensen,  president  of  the 
Central  Utah  Vocational  School. 

We  recognize  too,  with  appreciation, 
the  presence  of  our  stake  presidencies, 
bishoprics,  temple  presidencies,  General 
Auxiliary  officers,  and  all  who  have 
participated  in  this  spiritual  feast.  It 
is  glorious  to  meet  with  you  and  have 
you  partake  of  the  spirit  of  the  Con- 
ference, and  to  let  us  partake  of  your 
spirit  and  feel  your  support,  and  that 
means  much. 

We  have  many  greetings,  which  have 
already  been  presented  to  you — tele- 
grams from  our  seminary  students  who 
are  here  in  large  number. 

These  beautiful  daffodils,  which  are 
arranged  on  the  rostrum  and  pulpit 
have  come  from  the  Tacoma  Stake 
through  the  generosity  of  the  Puyallup 
Valley  Daffodil  Festival  of  Tacoma, 
Washington.  The  calla  lilies  are  from 
the  high  priests'  quorum  of  the  Oakland- 
Berkeley  Stake.  These  flowers  have 
come  to  us  voluntarily,  and  many  hours 
have  been  spent  by  the  members  in 


picking  them  and  preparing  them  for 
shipment  by  airplane.  These  sweet 
peas — ten  thousand  of  them — are  from 
the  Mesa  Eleventh  Ward.  These  lovely 
flowers  were  picked  by  the  members  of 
the  ward  and  delivered  personally  by 
Bishop  David  M.  Howells  who  drove 
all  night  to  get  them  here  in  time  for 
this  Conference. 

There  are  many  ways  in  which  we 
can  serve  our  fellow  men,  and  serve 
this  Church,  and  we  appreciate  it. 

I  was  sorry  yesterday  that  I  was  not 
able  to  meet  Brother  Jesse  A.  Udall, 
who  is  Judge  of  the  Supreme  Court  in 
Arizona,  formerly  president  of  our 
mission  in  California.  He  is  here  with 
us,  and  we  bid  a  hearty  welcome  to 
him. 

The  closing  song  will  be  by  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir,  and  they  are  going  to  sing 
the  "Hallelujah  Chorus."  I  think  you 
will  hear  that  great  rendition  sung  as 
you  have  seldom,  if  ever,  heard  it  be- 
fore, and  it  is  suggested  that  as  the 
Choir  rises  the  entire  congregation  will 
also  rise,  and  remain  standing  through 
the  singing  of  the  "Hallelujah  Chorus." 
The  benediction  will  be  by  Elder  Cecil 
B.  Kenner,  president  of  the  East  Cache 
Stake,  after  which  this  Conference  will 
stand  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  this 
afternoon. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  as  a  clos- 
ing number,  "Hallellujah  Chorus." 

Elder  Cecil  B.  Kenner,  president  of  the 
East  Cache  Stake,  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.m. 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  concluding  session  of  the  Con- 
ference was  held  at  2  o'clock  p.m. 

The  choral  music  for  this  session  of 
the  Conference  was  furnished  by  the 
Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir,  Richard  P. 
Condie  and  Jay  E.  Welch  conducting. 
Alexander  Schreiner  was  at  the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 


and  conducted  the  services.  He  opened 
the  meeting  with  the  following  intro- 
ductory remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 


116 

Sunday,  April  9 

Salt  Lake  City  in  the  concluding  ses- 
sion of  the  One  Hundred  Thirty-First 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church. 

For  those  who  are  unable  to  enter  the 
building,  we  announce  that  these  serv- 
ices are  being  broadcast  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall  over  television. 
These  services  are  also  being  broadcast 
as  a  public  service  by  television  and 
radio  stations  throughout  the  West. 
The  names  of  these  stations  were  an- 
nounced just  a  moment  ago  while  we 
were  waiting. 

To  all  radio  and  television  audiences, 
to  our  special  guests,  educational 
leaders,  General  Church  officers,  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  and  friends  as- 
sembled in  this  building,  we  bid  you 
welcome. 

The  music  for  this  session  will  be 
rendered  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  with 
Richard  P.  Condie  and  Jay  E.  Welch 
conducting.  Alexander  Schreiner  is  at 
the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  singing,  "The  Lord's 
Prayer,"  with  Elder  Jay  E.  Welch  di- 
recting. The  invocation  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  Aura  C.  Hatch,  president  of 
the  Provo  Stake. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

The  opening  number  by  the  Choir 
was,  "The  Lord's  Prayer,"  conducted  by 
Jay  E.  Welch. 

Elder  Aura  C.  Hatch,  president  of  the 
Provo  Stake,  offered  the  invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 
Aura  C.  Hatch,  president  of  the  Provo 
Stake. 

The  women  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
will  now  sing,  "The  Artisan,"  con- 
ducted by  Elder  Richard  P.  Condie. 
After  the  singing,  Elder  Marion  G. 
Romney  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
will  address  us. 


The  women  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
sang  "The  Artisan,"  Elder  Richard  P. 
Condie  conducting. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Marion  G.  Romney,  a  member 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  will  be 
our  first  speaker.  He  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  John  Longden. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brothers  and  sisters,  and  I 
include  all  of  you,  both  you  in  this 
building  and  you  who  are  listening  in 
on  radio  and  television.  I  consider  you 
all  my  brothers  and  sisters,  for  I  know, 
as  you  do,  that  we  are  all  the  sons  and 
daughters  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  I 
sincerely  trust  that  you  will  join  with 
me  in  a  prayer  that  while  I  speak  I 
may  enjoy  the  Spirit  and  that  you  may 
enjoy  the  Spirit,  for  I  am  convinced 
with  Nephi  that  ".  .  .  when  a  man 
speaketh  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
carrieth  it  unto  the  hearts  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men."  (2  Nephi  33:1.) 

I  have  a  prepared  talk  in  my  pocket, 
which  took  me  five  months  to  prepare, 
titled  "The  Book  of  Mormon— The  Key- 
stone of  Our  Religion."  You,  of  course, 
know  what  Brother  McConkie  did  to 
it.  (laughter)    He  has  made  me  feel 


towards  it  as  the  player  on  a  boys' 
baseball  team  felt  towards  left  field.  This 
player  was  taken  out  of  a  game  to  give 
Jimmy  from  the  second  string  a  chance 
to  play.  As  luck  would  have  it,  Jimmy 
dropped  the  first  two  balls  hit  into  left 
field.  He  was  therefore  taken  out,  and 
the  left  fielder  put  back  in.  The  next 
two  balls  hit  also  went  to  left  field, 
and  the  regular  player  dropped  them. 
When  he  came  off  the  field  at  the  end 
of  the  inning,  the  coach  said,  "I  wasn't 
surprised  when  Jimmy  fumbled  the  ball, 
but  I  was  surprised  at  you."  "Well, 
Coach,"  said  the  player,  "I'll  tell  you, 
Jimmy  messed  up  left  field  so  badly 
that  no  one  can  play  it." 

However,  I  do  want  to  say  one  or  two 
things  about  the  Book  of  Mormon  be- 
fore I  get  to  the  point  that  I  have  in 
mind  to  comment  on. 

As  you  know,  the  Book  of  Mormon  is 


ELDER  MARK 

the  current  study  course  for  Melchize- 
dek  Priesthood  quorums.  I  urge  every- 
one to  read  it  during  1961,  particularly 
Melchizedek  Priesthood  bearers.  This 
I  do  because  I  think  we  need — as  we 
increase  in  Church  membership  under 
the  impetus  of  our  great  missionary 
program — to  keep  pace  in  the  perfecting 
of  our  own  lives.  This  we  can  do  by 
putting  on  the  "whole  armour  of  God," 
as  Paul  says,  (Eph.  6:11)  or,  as  Peter 
puts  it,  by  more  rapidly  becoming  "par- 
takers of  the  divine  nature."  (2  Pet. 
1:4.)  I  do  not  know  any  more  effective 
way  to  do  this  than  to  know  and  live 
the  teachings  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
The  Prophet  knew  what  he  was  talking 
about  when  he  said  that  "...  a  man 
would  get  nearer  to  God  by  abiding  by 
its  precepts,  than  by  any  other  book." 
(DHC.  4:461.) 

The  Prophet  also  knew  what  he  was 
talking  about  when  he  said  "the  Book 
of  Mormon"  is  "the  keystone  of  our 
religion."  We  may  not  know  all  he 
had  in  mind  when  he  said  this,  but  we 
do  know  the  statement  was  amply 
justified  because  the  authenticity  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon  rests  upon  two 
facts,  acceptance  of  which  is  tantamount 
to  acceptance  of  the  whole  of  the  re- 
stored gospel,  namely:  the  fact  of 
modern  revelation,  by  which  I  mean 
direct  communication  from  God  to 
men,  and  the  fact  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  of  God. 

Acceptance  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 
requires  acceptance  of  these  two  facts, 
because  they  are  inseparably  connected 
with  its  coming  forth.  If  one  accepts 
them  and  the  Book  of  Mormon,  he 
cannot  deny  the  restored  gospel,  for  it 
rests  upon  the  same  two  facts.  The 
person  who  knows  the  Book  of  Mormon 
is  true  has  passed  the  point  of  no  re- 
turn, so  far  as  conversion  is  concerned. 
He  has  come  out  of  darkness  into  the 
glorious  light  of  truth.  He  has,  in 
effect,  accepted  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

I  would  now  like  to  say  a  few  words 
about  the  significance  of  this  confer- 
ence. I  have  been  thinking  about  this 
as  I  have  sat  here  on  this  stand  during 
these  conference  sessions  and  considered 
what  was  going  on.  I  do  not  think  I 
have  the  language  to  convey  to  you  its 


7  G.  ROMNEY  117 

full  significance,  but  I  can  say  that  it 
represents  the  most  effective  force  in  the 
world  for  the  good  of  humanity. 

We  have  great  gatherings,  of  course, 
in  the  United  Nations.  Representatives 
from  the  governments  of  the  world 
convene  to  deliberate,  to  reason,  to 
argue,  to  compromise,  to  try  in  every 
way  devisable  by  the  human  mind  to 
resolve  differences.  I  suppose  most  of 
of  them  come  with  honest  hearts  to  try 
to  bring  peace  to  the  world. 

We  have  come  to  this  conference 
from  many  nations  of  the  world — not, 
however,  as  representatives  of  the  gov- 
ernments of  these  nations.  We  are  here 
representing  the  leadership  of  the 
kingdom  of  God.  This  Church  is  the 
literal  kingdom  of  God  in  the  earth. 
We  did  not  come  to  argue,  to  jockey  for 
position,  to  compromise  differences  and 
establish  policies.  We  came  here  to 
hear  and  learn  the  word  of  God  as  he 
has  and  does  now  reveal  it  through 
his  appointed  servants,  and  to  take  it 
back  and  teach  it  to  our  people.  We 
know  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
of  which  this  Church  is  the  repository, 
is  the  one  and  only  way  of  peace.  We 
know  that  to  everyone  who  accepts  and 
lives  it  there  comes  peace — peace  in  his 
heart — even  in  the  midst  of  turmoil  in 
the  world.  We  know  that  if  the  peo- 
ple of  the  world  would  accept  it  and 
live  it,  we  would  have  peace  in  all  the 
world.  We  are  in  very  deed  representa- 
tives of  Jesus  Christ  our  Redeemer  and 
his  Father,  God  our  Eternal  Father. 
Our  authority  comes  from  them. 

This  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 
It  is  the  Church  of  Christ  by  his  own 
statement  as  to  what  his  Church  had 
to  be.  I  am  going  to  take  the  time  to 
read  to  you  what  he  said  his  Church 
had  to  be.  Brother  [Milton  R.]  Hunter 
told  about  the  visit  of  Jesus  to  the 
Nephites  after  he  had  completed  his 
post-resurrection  ministry  among  the 
Saints  at  Jerusalem.  When  he  appeared 
to  the  Nephites,  they  saw  him  as  he 
was — a  glorified  man  of  flesh  and  bone 
and  spirit.  He  walked  with  them,  and 
he  talked  with  them.  He  organized  his 
Church  among  them.  He  clearly  pointed 
out  to  them  two  distinguishing  char- 
acteristics of  his  Church.  He  chose,  as 
you  remember,   twelve  disciples  who 


118 

Sunday,  April  9 

were  to  serve  among  the  Nephites  as 
the  Twelve  Apostles  served  the  people 
in  the  land  of  Jerusalem. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  as  the 
disciples  of  Jesus  were  journeying  and 
were  preaching  the  things  which  they 
had  both  heard  and  seen,  and  were 
baptizing  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  it  came 
to  pass  that  the  disciples  were  gathered 
together  and  were  united  in  mighty 
prayer  and  fasting. 

"And  Jesus  again  showed  himself  unto 
them,  for  they  were  praying  unto  the 
Father  in  his  name;  and  Jesus  came  and 
stood  in  the  midst  of  them,  and  said 
unto  them:  What  will  ye  that  I  shall 
give  unto  you? 

"And  they  said  unto  him:  Lord,  we 
will  that  thou  wouldst  tell  us  the 
name  whereby  we  shall  call  this  church; 
for  there  are  disputations  among  the 
people  concerning  this  matter. 

"And  the  Lord  said  unto  them: 
Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  why  is 
it  that  the  people  should  murmur  and 
dispute  because  of  this  thing? 

"Have  they  not  read  the  scriptures, 
which  say  ye  must  take  upon  you  the 
name  of  Christ,  which  is  my  name? 
For  by  this  name  shall  ye  be  called  at 
the  last  day — [That  great  day  when 
we  shall  be  called  to  stand  before  him 
to  be  judged]; 

"And  whoso  taketh  upon  him  my 
name,  and  endureth  to  the  end,  the 
same  shall  be  saved  at  the  last  day. 

"Therefore,  whatsoever  ye  shall  do, 
ye  shall  do  it  in  my  name;  therefore  ye 
shall  call  the  church  in  my  name;  and 
ye  shall  call  upon  the  Father  in  my 
name  that  he  will  bless  the  church 
for  my  sake. 

"And  how  be  it  my  church  save  it 
be  called  in  my  name?  For  if  a  church 
be  called  in  Moses'  name  then  it  be 
Moses'  church;  or  if  it  be  called  in  the 
name  of  a  man  then  it  be  the  church 
of  a  man;  but  if  it  be  called  in  my 
name  then  it  is  my  church,  if  it  so  be 
that  they  are  built  upon  my  gospel." 
(3  Nephi  27:1-8.) 

How  about  the  name  of  this  Church? 
What  is  it?  It  is  "The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints."  How  did 
it  get  the  name?  Did  Joseph  Smith 
select  it?  No.  The  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
himself  told  Joseph  Smith  to  name  this 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

Church  "The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints."  I  will  not  take 
time  to  read  the  instruction.  You  will 
find  it  in  the  115th  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants.  In  that 
revelation  Jesus  refers  to  "all  the  elders 
and  people  of  my  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  scattered  abroad  in 
all  the  world;  For  thus  shall  my  church 
be  called  in  the  last  days,  even  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints."  (See  D&C  115:3-4.) 

Now  what  about  the  other  point? 
It  is  my  church  "if  it  be  called  in  my 
name  ...  if  it  so  be  that  they  are  built 
upon  my  gospel."  Now  what  is  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ?  I  would  like  to 
read  to  you  out  of  this  same  chapter, 
the  27th  chapter  of  3rd  Nephi,  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  as  defined  by  the  Master 
himself — not  by  Joseph  Smith,  not  by 
men,  but  by  Christ  himself  as  he  stood 
among  the  Nephites,  as  a  resurrected 
being.    To  me  it  is  marvelous: 

"Behold  I  have  given  unto  you  my 
gospel  [he  said],  and  this  is  the  gospel 
which  I  have  given  unto  you — that  I 
came  into  the  world  to  do  the  will  of 
my  Father,  because  my  Father  sent  me. 

"And  my  Father  sent  me  that  I  might 
be  lifted  up  upon  the  cross;  and  after 
that  I  had  been  lifted  up  upon  the 
cross,  that  I  might  draw  all  men  unto 
me,  that  as  I  have  been  lifted  up  by 
men  even  so  should  men  be  lifted  up 
by  the  Father,  to  stand  before  me,  to 
be  judged  of  their  works,  whether  they 
be  good  or  whether  they  be  evil — 

"And  for  this  cause  have  I  been 
lifted  up;  therefore,  according  to  the 
power  of  the  Father  I  will  draw  all 
men  unto  me,  [in  the  universal  resur- 
rection], that  they  may  be  judged  ac- 
cording to  their  works. 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that 
whoso  repenteth  and  is  baptized  in  my 
name  shall  be  filled;  and  if  he  endureth 
to  the  end,  behold,  him  will  I  hold 
guiltless  before  my  Father  at  that  day 
when  I  shall  stand  to  judge  the  world. 

"And  he  that  endureth  not  unto  the 
end  [this  is  the  Redeemer  speaking], 
the  same  is  he  that  is  also  hewn  down 
and  cast  into  the  fire,  from  whence 
they  can  no  more  return,  because  of  the 
justice  of  the  Father. 

"And  this  is  the  word  which  he  hath 


ELDER  MARK 

given  unto  the  children  of  men.  And 
for  this  cause  he  fulfilleth  the  words 
which  he  hath  given,  and  he  lieth  not, 
but  fulfilleth  all  his  words. 

"And  no  unclean  thing  can  enter  into 
his  kingdom;  therefore  nothing  entereth 
into  his  rest  save  it  be  those  who  have 
washed  their  garments  in  my  blood,  be- 
cause of  their  faith,  and  the  repentance 
of  all  their  sins,  and  their  faithfulness 
unto  the  end. 

"Now  this  is  the  commandment  [said 
the  Redeemer]:  Repent,  all  ye  ends  of 
the  earth,  and  come  unto  me  and  be 
baptized  in  my  name,  that  ye  may  be 
sanctified  by  the  reception  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  that  ye  may  stand  spotless  before 
me  at  the  last  day. 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  this  is 
my  gospel;  . .  ."  (3  Nephi  27:13-21.) 

Then  he  adds  that  "if  ye  do  these 
things  blessed  are  ye,  for  ye  shall  be 
lifted  up  at  the  last  day."  (Ibid.,  27:22.) 

Now  this  Church  is  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Of  course,  no  one  can 
know  this  fact  with  certainty  unless  he 
has  received  a  witness  from  the  Holy 
Ghost.  Everyone  who  will  look  can 
see,  however,  that  the  Church  meets 
the  requirement  laid  down  by  the  Re- 
deemer. It  was  named  by  him,  it  is 
called  after  him,  and  it  is  built  upon 
the  gospel  as  he  defined  it. 

This  Church  is  the  standard  which 
Isaiah  said  the  Lord  would  set  up  for 
the  people  in  the  latter  days.  This 
Church  was  given  to  be  a  light  to  the 
world  and  to  be  a  standard  for  God's 
people  and  for  the  Gentiles  to  seek  to. 
This  Church  is  the  ensign  on  the  moun- 
tain spoken  of  by  the  Old  Testament 
prophets.  It  is  the  way,  the  truth,  and 
the  life. 

I  know  these  things  are  true.  I  know 
them  by  the  witness  of  the  Spirit  to  my 
soul,  and  I  bear  you  that  witness.  I 
know  Jesus  Christ  lives.  When  I  think 
of  him,  my  Redeemer,  I  am  always 
moved.  In  my  mind's  eye,  I  see  him 
in  that  great  council  before  the  world 
was,  when  he  said  in  effect  to  his 
Father,  "I  will  go.  Mine  be  the  willing 
sacrifice,  the  endless  glory  thine." 

I  view  him  as  the  Creator  of  this 
world  and  of  the  starry  heavens.  In 
this  respect  it  is  difficult  for  us  to 
realize  the  greatness  of  Jesus.  Enoch 


7  G.  ROMNEY  119 

was  amazed  when  the  Lord  showed 
him  his  creations.  He  referred  to 
the  number  of  them  in  this  lan- 
guage: ".  .  .  were  it  possible  that  man 
could  number  the  particles  of  the  earth, 
yea,  millions  of  earths  like  this, 
it  would  not  be  a  beginning  to  the  num- 
ber of  thy  creations;  .  .  ."  (Moses  7:30.) 

I  think  of  this  man — this  Son  of 
God,  Jesus — as  he  stood  on  Mount 
Shelem  before  the  brother  of  Jared 
in  his  full-length  spirit  body  and  said: 

"Behold,  I  am  he  who  was  prepared 
from  the  foundation  of  the  world  to 
redeem  my  people.  Behold,  I  am  Jesus 
Christ  

".  .  .  Seest  thou  that  ye  are  created 
after  mine  own  image?  Yea,  even  all 
men  were  created  in  the  beginning  after 
mine  own  image. 

"Behold,  this  body,  which  ye  now  be- 
hold, is  the  body  of  my  spirit;  and  man 
have  I  created  after  the  body  of  my 
spirit;  and  even  as  I  appear  unto  thee 
to  be  in  the  spirit  will  I  appear  unto 
my  people  in  the  flesh."  (Ether  3:14-16.) 

That  was  2,200  years  before  he  ap- 
peared on  earth  as  the  infant  son  of 
Mary.  I  think  of  his  coming  into  this 
world,  the  Son  of  Mary  and  God  the 
Eternal  Father. 

I  think  of  him  as  he  went  through 
his  life,  teaching  and  blessing  the 
people. 

And,  oh,  I  think  of  him  in  Geth- 
semane,  when  he  suffered  the  pain  of 
all  men,  that  we  might  be  forgiven  of 
our  sins  on  conditions  of  repentance.  I 
think  of  Luke's  statement  describing 
Christ's  suffering  in  Gethsemane:  ".  .  . 
his  sweat  was  as  it  were  great  drops  of 
blood  falling  down  to  the  ground." 
(Luke  22:44.)  And  of  Christ's  statement 
to  Joseph  Smith:  ".  .  .  Which  suffering 
caused  myself,  even  God,  the  greatest 
of  all,  to  tremble  because  of  pain,  and 
to  bleed  at  every  pore,  and  to  suffer 
both  body  and  spirit — and  would  that 
I  might  not  drink  the  bitter  cup,  and 
shrink — 

"Nevertheless,  glory  be  to  the  Father, 
and  I  partook  and  finished  my  prepara- 
tions unto  the  children  of  men."  (D&C 
19:18-19.) 

By  his  suffering  he  put  into  effect 
the  plan  of  mercy,  the  merciful  gospel 


120 

Sunday,  April  9 

plan  of  redemption  by  which  all  men 
may  be  cleansed  of  their  sins. 

And  then  I  think  of  him  on  the  cross. 
I  think  of  him  in  the  garden,  when 
he  spoke  to  Mary,  following  which  the 
light  and  knowledge  broke  through 
upon  his  disciples  that  he  in  reality  had 
won  the  victory  over  death,  bringing 
about  not  only  his  own,  but  the  resur- 
rection of  all  people. 

I  think  of  him  with  the  Father  in  the 
grove  with  the  Prophet  Joseph.  I  know 
he  lives. 

I  know  my  Redeemer  lives.  "Hear,  O 
ye  heavens,  and  give  ear,  O  earth,  and 
rejoice  ye  inhabitants  thereof,  for  the 
Lord  is  God,  and  beside  him  there  is  no 
Savior."  (D&C  76:1.) 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  this 
statement  is  true,  and  this  witness  which 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

I  bear  will  be  binding  upon  you;  for  I, 
like  my  brethren  of  the  presiding  coun- 
cils of  the  Church,  am  a  called  and 
ordained  personal  witness  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ. 

This  Church  is  the  Church  of  God. 
We  do  have  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
If  we  will  live  it,  we  will  gain  the 
promised  blessings.  That  this  may  so 
be,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder 
Marion  G.  Romney  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve.  Elder  John  Longden, 
Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak 
to  us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Henry  D.  Taylor. 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


From  this  conference,  these  excellent 
sessions  which  have  been  held,  with 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  attendance, 
we  have  been  fed  the  bread  of  life, 
and  we  have  been  fed  those  things  per- 
taining to  eternal  life  which  will  help 
us  in  our  daily  lives  here  in  mortality. 
I  believe  there  are  a  few  lines  which 
would  sum  up  very  beautifully  the 
truths  that  have  been  spoken  from  this 
pulpit. 

It  is  a  simple  prayer,  and  as  far  as 
I  am  concerned,  the  author  is  anony- 
mous. "O  God,  our  Father,  always  keep 
us  thankful,  and  never  let  us  forget 
the  source  of  all  our  blessings  and  our 
great  privilege  to  share  them  with 
others." 

I  am  so  grateful  for  those  words  be- 
cause I  feel  they  sum  up  beautifully 
the  things  which  have  been  given  in 
these  marvelous  sessions  from  those  who 
have  preceded  me.  The  opening  re- 
marks of  President  McKay,  saluting 
youth,  commending  them  for  their  cour- 
age and  fortitude  in  seeking  to  know  the 
truth  and  to  follow  it,  were  most  in- 
spirational, as  has  been  each  of  the 
brethren,  to  Brother  Romney  who  has 
just  preceded  me  with  his  beautiful 
testimony  of  the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ. 

There  is  one,  I  should  like  to  say  at 


this  point,  whom  I  have  missed,  and 
I  am  sure  I  voice  the  thoughts  of  thou- 
sands who  have  been  and  are  here;  the 
voice  and  the  words  of  President  J. 
Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  God  bless  you,  Presi- 
dent Clark. 

Because  of  this  sharing,  there  was  an 
assignment  that  came  to  Sister  Longden 
and  me  last  November — it  came  earlier 
than  that  but  because  of  conditions  and 
circumstances  over  which  we  had  no 
control,  we  were  not  able  to  start  our 
journey  until  the  fourth  of  November 
1960. 

We  left  Salt  Lake  City  with  Presi- 
dent and  Sister  Kendall  W.  Young,  who 
were  to  be  installed  in  the  French 
Polynesian  (or  Tahitian)  Mission,  and 
with  us  were  their  four  little  children — 
the  oldest  not  yet  seven.  You  talk  about 
faith — here  it  is  exemplified — these  peo- 
ple willing  to  leave  the  comforts  of 
home  and  the  pursuits  here  of  their 
daily  labors  to  go  out  and  serve  the 
Lord  in  those  beautiful  but  faraway 
islands  of  the  South  Pacific. 

We  arrived  in  Papeete,  Tahiti,  after 
twenty-seven  hours.  The  final  journey 
from  Honolulu  to  Papeete  took  ten  hours 
and  fifteen  minutes  which  is  quite  a 
long  time  to  be  in  the  air.  But  we  were 
blessed.    We   arrived  there  Saturday 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 


121 


morning.  On  Sunday,  the  next  day, 
President  Young  was  installed  as  the 
new  mission  president.  President 
Joseph  R.  Reeder  was  released  as  presi- 
dent of  the  French  Polynesian  Mission. 
In  a  few  days  President  and  Sister 
Reeder,  their  son  and  daughter  and  a 
young  elder,  Ralph  Anderson  from 
Brigham  City,  Utah,  who  was  in  the 
Tahitian  Mission  presidency,  started  for 
Rarotonga  on  the  Church  ship,  Paraita, 
so  named  after  Addison  Pratt,  one  of  the 
first  missionaries  to  labor  in  the  South 
Pacific  isles  as  early  as  1844.  That  will 
give  you  an  idea  of  how  our  "sharing" 
was  taking  place  even  in  those  early 
days. 

President  Reeder  was  installed  the 
following  Sunday  as  President  of  the 
Rarotonga  Mission.  We  had  eighty-one 
percent  attendance  in  our  meeting  that 
day.  That  is  something  for  you  stake 
presidents  here  in  the  States  to  shoot 
at — eighty-one  percent  of  the  total 
membership  of  the  Church  on  the  Island 
of  Rarotonga — as  we  created  a  new  mis- 
sion in  the  Cook  Islands  with  head- 
quarters in  Rarotonga. 

The  missionaries  in  Rarotonga  as  well 
as  those  in  Tahiti,  Tonga,  Samoa,  Aus- 
tralia, and  New  Zealand,  are  dedicated 
young  men,  giving  their  all  in  sharing 
the  gospel. 

I  shall  always  remember  one  mission- 
ary who  wished  to  stay  several  months 
longer  after  completing  his  full  term 
in  the  mission  field,  but  he  sensed  that 
finances  might  be  running  short  at  home 
so  he  wrote  to  his  mother,  who  is  a 
widow,  asking  her  advice.  While  we 
were  in  Tahiti  he  received  a  letter  from 
her  stating,  "If  necessary,  I'll  scrub 
floors  in  order  to  keep  you  in  the  mis- 
sion field  your  full  time  and  longer." 
Faith,  sharing  with  others! 

The  missionary  activity  in  these  two 
missions,  the  increasing  baptisms,  the 
stepped-up  interest  of  investigators  is 
most  heartwarming.  I  believe  our  mem- 
bers there  are  fully  converted  to  the 
truth  and  know  why  they  are  being 
baptized.  There  is  a  lovely  mission- 
ary endeavor  which  takes  place  every 
three  weeks  as  each  Matson  liner  comes 
into  Papeete.  The  French  and  the 
Tahitian  branches,  combined,  furnish 
a  forty-five-minute  program  for  all  the 


tourists  on  board  ship,  and  there  is 
usually  a  full  complement  of  passengers. 
The  program  consists  of  classical  as 
well  as  native  music  sung  by  a  chorus 
of  beautiful  young  Tahitian  members 
led  by  one  of  the  missionaries.  There 
are  also  some  impressive  native  dances 
by  young  and  old,  and  you  would  thrill 
at  the  music — the  choruses,  the  indi- 
vidual numbers.  We  were  told  by  the 
captains  of  both  ships  on  which  we  wit- 
nessed the  show  that  this  was  always 
the  favorite  entertainment  of  their 
passengers. 

Our  journey  then  took  us  to  Suva, 
Fiji,  and  to  Nukualofa,  Tonga,  where 
we  met  with  President  M.  Vernon 
Coombs  and  Sister  Coombs.  They  have 
been  in  the  mission  field  in  Tonga  on 
and  off  since  1911.  The  people  love 
them,  and  they  love  the  Tongan  Saints. 
President  Coombs  had  arranged  an  in- 
terview with  Crown  Prince  Tungi,  who 
was  very  grateful  for  the  courtesy  and 
hospitality  extended  to  him  by  Presi- 
dent McKay  on  a  visit  here  a  few  years 
ago.  Perhaps  one  of  the  most  thrilling, 
humbling  moments  of  our  lives  was  as 
we  arrived  at  the  Church  college  in 
Nukualofa.  The  Saints  were  all  dressed 
in  pure  white,  mostly  sitting  on  the 
floor  to  make  more  room.  As  we  arrived 
they  stood  and  sang  like  angels,  "We 
Thank  Thee  O  God  For  a  Prophet." 
Right  then  I  had  the  privilege  of  telling 
them  I  knew  they  were  singing  their 
thanks  for  our  prophet,  David  O.  McKay, 
and  I  would  convey  their  love  and 
greeting  to  him. 

I  shall  never  forget  the  1,400  Saints 
assembled  at  a  music  and  dance  festival 
presented  by  several  branches  of  the 
Tongan  Mission.  This  time  we  saw 
the  great  MIA  program  in  action.  I 
am  ready  for  any  stake  president  now, 
or  anyone  in  the  Mutual  organization 
who  says,  "It  won't  work  in  our  stake." 
We  saw  it  work.  We  saw  this  marvel- 
ous program  in  action — dancing,  singing, 
the  drama,  speech.  Also  we  met  with 
Tongan  Master  MMen  and  Golden 
Gleaners. 

Yes,  sharing  the  gospel  is  a  happy 
experience — more  so  when  we  see  the 
gospel  principles  applied  in  the  daily 
lives  of  others.  I  am  grateful  for  the 
faith  of  the  missionaries  in  the  South 


122 

Sunday,  April  9 

Pacific  and,  though  we  are  limited  in 
number  in  some  of  these  missions,  the 
mission  presidents  are  meeting  this 
challenge  through  the  development  of 
young  Tahitians,  Tongans,  and  Samoans 
who  are  qualified  and  worthy,  who  al- 
ready know  the  language.  These  young 
people  are  called  as  missionaries  to 
serve  with  the  missionaries  from  the 
States.  That  is  doubling  our  number 
of  missionaries,  and  great  good  is  being 
accomplished. 

From  Tonga  we  moved  on  to  Samoa, 
where  a  fine  work  is  being  accom- 
plished. Here  we  saw  much  of  another 
phase  of  activity  in  the  Church — the 
labor  missionary  program.  It  was  my 
privilege  to  hold  a  special  meeting  with 
seventy-seven  of  them,  and  then  as  the 
Apia  Chapel  was  dedicated  with  526 
in  attendance,  to  see  and  hear  a  chorus 
of  fifty  young  labor  missionaries  dressed 
in  white  shirts  and  trousers  with  black 
bow  ties,  singing  under  the  direction  of 
Sister  Barker,  whose  husband  is  the 
principal  of  the  Church  school  at  Pesega. 
They  sang  with  so  much  meaning,  and 
they  sang  not  only  in  Samoan,  but  they 
had  learned  also  the  English  interpreta- 
tion. The  building  program  is  going 
forward  in  Samoa,  as  will  the  proselyt- 
ing and  school  programs. 

Last  year  in  Samoa  there  were  2,393 
baptisms.  That  is  about  an  average  of 
forty  for  every  missionary.  I  am  sure 
that  will  make  President  Moyle  happy. 
We  talk  about  "sharing  the  gospel." 
They  have  been  doing  that  down 
there.  Three  years  ago  there  was  one 
entire  village  of  forty-five  converted  be- 
cause of  the  activity  of  our  missionaries. 
When  we  held  a  service  there,  three 
years  later,  there  were  150  in  attendance 
in  that  little  village. 

They  have  many  ideas  that  they  are 
putting  into  effect  in  order  to  bring  to 
these  wonderful  people  of  the  South 
Pacific  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  I 
cannot  say  too  much  for  the  work  that 
has  and  is  being  done  by  President 
Charles  I.  Sampson  and  his  most  dedi- 
cated counselors,  President  Rivers  and 
President  Harrington.  President  Har- 
rington, a  stalwart  young  man  graduated 
from  Stanford  University,  a  Samoan,  his 
parents  living  in  Honolulu,  will  soon 
be  winding  up  his  two  and  a  half  years 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

in  the  mission  field — a  tower  of  spiritual 
strength  to  his  people. 

We  were  so  pleased  to  see  the  schools 
as  well  as  the  churches  teaching  people 
to  develop  and  utilize  the  talents  with 
which  God  has  blessed  them!  Yes,  we 
are  truly  sharing  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  with  these  wonderful  people  of 
the  South  Pacific. 

Our  journey  was  extended  to  include 
those  great  countries  of  Australia  and 
New  Zealand.  We  had  the  oppor- 
tunity of  touring  the  Southern  Aus- 
tralian Mission  and  the  Australian 
Mission.  When  you  travel  from  Mel- 
bourne, which  is  the  headquarters  of 
the  Southern  Australian  Mission,  and 
go  around  to  Perth,  it  is  like  traveling 
from  Salt  Lake  City  to  New  York.  And 
in  the  other  direction,  when  you  leave 
Sydney,  of  the  Australian  Mission,  going 
north  to  Cairns,  it  is  a  similar  distance. 
At  the  time  we  left,  a  new  area  was 
being  opened,  as  Brother  [Spencer  W.] 
Kimball  had  encouraged  them  to  do,  in 
Darwin  and  Port  Moresby  and  Thurs- 
day Island  in  New  Guinea.  This  was 
after  a  survey  had  been  made  at  the 
time  of  the  visit  of  Brother  Kimball. 

Christmas  Eve  we  were  in  the  rail- 
road yards  at  Perth — 106  degrees,  and 
we  saw  a  little  train — not  the  luxury 
and  the  comforts  and  conveniences  to 
which  we  are  accustomed  in  this  na- 
tion. Twenty-five  of  our  members,  in- 
cluding one  little  family  of  seven, 
mother  and  father  and  five  children 
were  leaving  for  New  Zealand  to  go  to 
the  temple  to  be  sealed  to  one  another. 
I  called  Sister  Longden's  attention  to 
the  little  canvas  bag  on  the  back  of 
the  railroad  car,  and  in  that  bag  was 
the  culinary  water  which  was  to  sustain 
them  until  they  were  able  to  refill  it. 
Faith!  Because  they  had  received  that 
witness  Brother  Romney  has  just  spoken 
of!  They  had  that  evidence  in  their 
souls.  The  light  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  had  penetrated  the  darkness,  and 
they  felt  the  spirit  of  urgency  to  go  to 
a  temple  of  the  Lord.  They  were  will- 
ing to  sell  all  their  possessions.  It 
would  take  some  three  weeks  for  their 
journey,  changing  to  four  different 
trains  going  through  Australia,  and 
then  in  Sydney  they  would  board  a  ship 
which  would  take  them  to  Auckland. 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 


123 


They  would  then  travel  another  eighty 
miles  to  the  temple  site.  They  knew 
they  were  doing  the  will  of  the  Lord. 
We  shall  never  forget  the  look  of 
hallowed,  excited  expectation  on  the 
faces  of  each  of  those  dear  Saints. 

We  truly  saw  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  in  action.  President  Moyle  used 
the  word  this  morning — applying — ap- 
plication. We  hear,  we  read,  we  have 
an  opportunity  to  believe,  and  then  we 
must  apply  these  truths  in  order  to 
reap  the  blessings.  I  am  so  thankful 
that  our  journey  was  extended  to  Aus- 
tralia and  New  Zealand,  that  we  came 
to  know  these  wonderful  people.  I  held 
three  stake  conferences  in  Australia,  in 
Melbourne,  in  Sydney,  and  Brisbane, 
and  was  privileged  to  see  the  faith  of 
the  people  there  and  the  attendance 
at  our  meetings  and  to  hear  some  faith- 
promoting  stories  and  witness  them. 

I  could  mention  other  similar  experi- 
ences. Sixty-nine  Tongan  Saints,  when 
we  were  in  Suva,  were  just  returning 
from  the  temple,  happy  and  at  peace 
because  they  had  realized  lifelong 
dreams.  Another  thirty-eight  disem- 
barked from  a  huge  plane  in  Auckland 
three  days  before  we  left  for  home. 
We  met  them  in  Auckland  at  the  air- 
port. Nine  couples,  nine  fathers  and 
mothers  and  twenty  children  were  going 
to  the  temple  to  have  that  eternal 
union.  God  bless  them. 

After  spending  ten  days  each  in  the 
New  Zealand  South  and  New  Zealand 
missions,  we  held  three  stake  confer- 
ences in  New  Zealand:  Hawkes  Bay, 
Hamilton,  and  in  Auckland.  I  am 
grateful  for  the  memories  I  have  of  these 
experiences.  The  attendance  was  ex- 
cellent in  all  stakes.  Fifty-three  percent 
were  present  at  our  meetings  in  Auck- 
land, even  though  the  Auckland  Stake 
had  been  divided  two  and  a  half  months 
before  when  Brother  Kimball  was  there 
creating  a  new  stake,  Hamilton,  leaving 
only  part  of  Auckland  Stake.  It  has 
been  wonderful  to  shake  the  hand  of 
President  William  Roberts,  from  Auck- 
land, here  for  this  conference,  also  of 
President  Higbee  from  Hawkes  Bay  and 
others  here  from  these  stakes  of  Zion 
down  under. 

Now  in  conclusion,  as  we  share  this 


gospel  with  others,  may  I  give  you  the 
words  of  the  Lord  as  recorded  in  the 
seventh  chapter  of  Matthew.  Christ  had 
been  teaching  the  people  in  his  cus- 
tomary way — by  parables.  He  spoke  of 
one  of  the  men  who  was  wise,  because 
he  built  his  house  upon  the  rock,  and 
the  one  who  was  foolish,  because  he 
had  built  his  house  upon  the  sand.  I 
am  interested  in  the  closing  words  of 
that  chapter,  "And  it  came  to  pass  when 
Jesus  had  ended  these  sayings,  the 
people  were  astonished  at  his  doctrine. 

"For  he  taught  them  as  one  having 
authority,  and  not  as  the  scribes." 
(Matt.  7:28-29.) 

May  we  then  be  wise  and  follow  the 
teachings  of  our  great  prophet  and 
mouthpiece  of  the  Lord  today,  as  well 
as  of  those  who  have  been  called  to 
labor  and  serve  with  him,  and  the 
leaders  in  the  missions  and  in  the 
stakes  and  wards  and  branches,  and 
all  the  auxiliary  organizations,  for  we 
are  being  taught  and  led  by  authority 
and  not  by  the  teachings  of  the  scribes. 
We  then  will  be  true  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  am  deeply  thankful  for  my  mem- 
bership in  this,  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  May  I  give 
you  in  conclusion  the  words  of  Karl 
G.  Maeser.  The  gospel  has  been 
summed  up  for  us — the  kingdom.  Those 
who  will  inherit  the  kingdom  must  be 
true  Latter-day  Saints.  This  is  Brother 
Maeser's  definition  of  a  true  Latter-day 
Saint.  "A  true  Latter-day  Saint  is  one 
who  has  dedicated  himself  soul  and 
body  to  God  in  all  things,  temporal  and 
spiritual,  in  all  his  doings,  in  all  the 
meditations  of  his  heart,  in  all  his 
desires,  his  anticipations  and  hopes  for 
the  future,  in  life  and  in  death  to  be- 
long to  the  Lord  only,  and  has  based 
all  his  actions,  all  his  thoughts,  all  his 
endeavors,  all  his  interests  upon  that 
foundation  that  he  belongs  to  the  Lord." 
As  we  truly  belong  to  the  Lord  we  will 
feel  called  to  share  that  belonging  with 
others. 

May  we  be  true  Latter-day  Saints, 
sharing  the  gospel  freely  with  others,  I 
humbly  pray  as  I  bear  my  witness  to 
you  that  these  things  are  true,  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  our 
Savior.  Amen. 


124  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

President  David  O.  McKay:  Twelve.    Elder  Henry  D.  Taylor,  also 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is  Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will  be  our 
Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the    next  speaker. 


ELDER  HENR 

Assistant  to  the  Council 

"In  the  sweat  of  thy  face  shalt  thou  eat 
bread."  (Gen.  3:19.)  In  these  words  the 
Lord  gave  to  Adam  and  Eve,  as  they 
were  driven  from  the  Garden  of  Eden, 
the  economic  law  by  which  they  and 
their  posterity  should  live  out  their  lives 
here  upon  the  earth.  All  laws  given 
to  Adam,  we  are  advised,  were  spiritual 
laws.  Inasmuch  as  he  was  given  the 
edict  that  in  the  sweat  of  his  brow  he 
should  eat  bread,  and  this  to  be  pro- 
duced from  the  earth,  which  had  been 
condemned  to  bring  forth  thorns  and 
thistles,  we  can  logically  conclude  that 
work  is  a  spiritual  law. 

We  should  understand,  however,  that 
Adam  and  Eve  were  put  under  no  curse, 
but  rather  the  ground  was  cursed  for 
Adam's  sake  or  for  his  good  and  benefit, 
for  the  Lord  further  stated:  ".  .  .  cursed 
is  the  ground  for  thy  sake."  (Ibid., 
3:17.) 

It  was  just  twenty-five  years  ago  at 
the  April  1936  general  conference  that 
the  divinely  inspired  welfare  plan  was 
announced,  giving  renewed  emphasis  to 
principles  as  old  as  the  Church  itself. 
At  the  following  conference  in  October, 
the  First  Presidency  explained  the  pri- 
mary purposes  for  the  establishment  of 
the  program.  One  of  the  basic  princi- 
ples, they  stated,  was:  "Work  is  to  be 
re-enthroned  as  the  ruling  principle  of 
the  lives  of  our  Church  membership." 
(Conference  Report,  October  1936, 
page  3.) 

To  carry  out  the  purposes  of  the  pro- 
gram, it  was  intended  that  all  members 
of  the  Church  should  join  together  and 
work  and  labor  to  produce  and  process 
the  commodities  necessary  to  care  for 
the  "Lord's  poor,"  that  is  the  worthy 
needy,  and  that  those  needy,  who  were 
to  receive  assistance,  should,  to  the  ex- 
tent of  their  ability,  work  for  the  help 
received.  In  this  manner  there  would 
be  no  dole,  no  receiving  something  and 
giving  nothing  in  return.    It  will  be 


i  D.  TAYLOR 

of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

understood  that  an  essential  factor  of 
this  great  movement,  the  welfare  plan, 
is  work. 

From  early  youth,  Latter-day  Saints 
have  or  should  have  been  taught  to 
regard  work  as  honorable  and  to  dignify 
it  by  performing  an  honest  day's  work 
for  a  fair  day's  pay.  The  poet  Carlyle 
expressed  this  sentiment  when  he  penned 
the  lines:  "All  work,  even  cotton- 
spinning  is  noble;  work  alone  is  noble." 
The  Apostle  Paul  clearly  understood 
and  emphasized  the  principle  of  work. 
In  his  epistle  to  the  Thessalonians,  he 
reminded  them:  ".  .  .  this  we  com- 
manded you,  that  if  any  would  not  work, 
neither  should  he  eat. 

"For  we  hear  that  there  are  some 
which  walk  among  you  disorderly, 
working  not  at  all,  but  are  busybodies. 

"Now  them  that  are  such  we  com- 
mand and  exhort  by  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  that  with  quietness  they  work, 
and  eat  their  own  bread. 

"But  ye,  brethren,  be  not  weary  in 
well  doing."  (2  Thess.  3:10-13.) 

Many  have  viewed  with  concern  pres- 
ent-day trends  continually  to  shorten 
working  hours.  The  existing  forty-hour 
week  seems  destined  for  revision  down- 
ward, as  agitation  mounts  to  reduce 
further  the  working  week  to  thirty-five  or 
even  thirty  hours,  with  no  decrease  in 
benefits.  Then  there  are  those  who  look 
forward  with  anticipation  to  age  sixty- 
five  as  the  time  of  retirement  from  all 
work  and  labor.  Much  to  their  sorrow, 
many  discover  that  too  much  leisure 
time  may  create  problems  not  antici- 
pated and  brings  disillusionment  and 
unhappiness.  They  learn  the  important 
truth  that  work  is  a  great  blessing  and 
can  result  in  joy  and  happiness  to 
themselves  and  to  mankind.  They  also 
discover  that  doing  nothing  is  one  of  the 
hardest  of  all  jobs.  When  you  get  tired, 
you  can't  rest.  You  are  in  bondage 
when  you  refuse  to  work. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  TAYLOR 


125 


Elizabeth  Barrett  Browning  said:  "Free 
men  freely  work:  Whoever  fears  God, 
fears  to  sit  at  ease." 

Idleness  is  an  offense  against  the  gos- 
pel and  has  received  the  Lord's  severe 
condemnation.  He  denounced  it  with 
vigor  and  vehemence  when  he  in- 
structed: 

"Thou  shalt  not  be  idle;  for  he  that 
is  idle  shall  not  eat  the  bread  nor  wear 
the  garments  of  the  laborer."  (D&C 
42:42.) 

"For  the  idler  shall  be  had  in  re- 
membrance before  the  Lord."  (Ibid., 
68:30.) 

On  another  occasion  he  counseled: 

"Let  every  man  be  diligent  in  all 
things.  And  the  idler  shall  not  have 
place  in  the  church,  except  he  repent 
and  mend  his  ways."  (Ibid.,  75:29.) 

Brigham  Young  admonished  the 
Saints  by  saying: 

"To  give  to  the  idler  is  as  wicked  as 
anything  else.  Never  give  to  the  idler." 
(Discourses  of  Brigham  Young,  p.  275.) 

The  First  Presidency  expressed  dis- 
approval of  the  evil  of  idleness  when  in 
explaining  the  purposes  of  the  welfare 
program,  they  stated,  that  it  is  among 
other  things: 

"To  set  up  ...  a  system  under  which 
the  curse  of  idleness  would  be  done 
away  with." 

The  life  span  of  man  is  constantly 
lengthening.  More  and  more  elderly 
citizens  are  confronted  with  the  problem 
of  properly  utilizing  leisure  time  in  ac- 
cordance with  their  desires,  experience, 
knowledge,  and  abilities.  These  sunset 
years  can  be  rich,  rewarding,  golden 
years,  filled  with  work  and  activity  as 
witnessed  by  the  serene,  happy  faces  of 
the  aging  temple  workers,  and  the  re- 
search people  in  the  Genealogical 
Library.  I  was  deeply  impressed  and 
touched  with  the  look  of  happiness  and 
contentment  on  the  face  of  a  ninety-two- 
year-old  brother  engaged  in  labeling 
cans  at  Welfare  Square.  Work  to  him 
was  worthwhile  and  precious. 

How  glorious  it  is  that  the  Church 
provides  ways,  means,  and  opportunities 
for  those  growing  older  to  engage  in 
interesting  and  constructive  work;  and 
how  proud  we  should  be  to  belong  to 
such  an  organization. 


President  McKay  in  his  eighty-eighth 
year  is  an  inspiration  and  a  shining 
example  to  all  of  us;  in  his  office  from 
early  morning  until  evening,  traveling 
throughout  the  world,  guiding,  stimu- 
lating, and  inspiring  the  Saints. 

Inactivity  or  refraining  from  work  can 
produce  a  deterioration  of  both  muscle 
and  mind.  The  body  accumulates  poison 
when  it  ceases  to  be  active.  The  mind 
becomes  weak  and  dwindles  in  effective- 
ness when  not  stimulated  by  vigorous 
mental  exercise.  On  the  other  hand, 
work  is  conducive  to  good  health,  con- 
tentment, and  cheerfulness.  Some  of  its 
happy  results  are  peace  of  mind,  a  hearty 
appetite,  sound  sleep,  and  undisturbed 
rest. 

".  .  .  work  out  your  own  salvation 
with  fear  and  trembling."  (Phil.  2:12.) 
To  Latter-day  Saints,  this  is  not  just  an 
empty  phrase,  it  is  a  profound  truth. 
Working  out  one's  own  salvation  is  the 
concern  of  every  individual,  contemplat- 
ing and  requiring  more  than  mere  lip 
service.  Each  of  us  will  at  some  future 
day  stand  before  the  judgment  bar  of 
God  to  answer  for  our  acts  in  this  life. 
John  the  Beloved  Apostle  foresaw  in 
vision  this  memorable  event  and  de- 
scribed it  in  these  words: 

"And  I  saw  the  dead,  small  and  great, 
stand  before  God;  and  the  books  were 
opened:  and  another  book  was  opened, 
which  is  the  book  of  life:  and  the  dead 
were  judged  out  of  those  things  which 
were  written  in  the  books,  according  to 
their  works."  (Rev.  20:12.) 

So  we  can  say  with  grateful  hearts, 
"thanks,  Heavenly  Father,"  for  the  privi- 
lege and  the  blessing  of  work;  and  as 
one  has  so  aptly  said,  "For  the  might 
of  it,  the  pride  of  it,  the  glory  of  it,  the 
peace  of  mind  that  comes  from  the 
strain  of  it." 

I  bear  you  my  witness,  my  brothers 
and  sisters,  that  the  principle  of  work 
is  a  God-given  and  spiritual  law.  I 
humbly  pray  that  each  one  of  us  will 
labor  diligently,  so  that  some  day  we 
may  merit  the  words  of  approbation, 
"Well  done,  thou  good  and  faithful 
servant: . . .  enter  thou  into  the  joy  of  thy 
Lord,"  (Matt.  25:21.)  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ  our  Savior.  Amen. 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  9 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Henry  D.  Taylor,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  has  just  addressed  us.  The 
Choir  and  Congregation  will  now  sing, 
"O  Ye  Mountains  High,"  conducted  by 
Elder  Jay  E.  Welch.  After  the  singing, 
Elder  Theodore  M.  Burton  will  speak 
to  us. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  con- 


Third  Day 

gregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"O  Ye  Mountains  High,"  conducted  by 
Jay  E.  Welch,  Assistant  Conductor  of 
the  Choir. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Theodore  M.  Burton,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  will  now  address  us. 


ELDER  THEODORE  M.  BURTON 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  am  conscious 
at  this  time  of  the  responsibility  that 
rests  upon  me.  I  pray  that  your  faith 
might  be  exercised  in  my  behalf  that 
it  might  come  to  me  as  a  wave  of 
friendship,  so  that  feeling  your  confi- 
dence and  your  love  I  might  be  able 
to  say  something  that  will  be  helpful 
and  edifying  to  you. 

As  I  have  heard  my  brethren  in  this 
conference  speak,  these  marvelous  ser- 
mons, which  have  moved  me  at  times 
to  tears,  have  made  me  conscious  of  the 
feeling  of  responsibility  they  have  tried 
to  implant  in  our  hearts.  After  all,  we 
have  been  chosen  for  a  great  and  a 
noble  purpose.  We  are  a  chosen  people, 
a  people  set  apart,  blessed,  and  ordained 
— in  fact,  foreordained — for  a  very 
special  responsibility.  Therefore,  we 
must  take  this  responsibility  very 
seriously  and  realize  that  we  were  not 
chosen  nor  set  apart  to  rule,  but  chosen 
and  set  apart  to  serve,  to  be  the  servants 
of  all  with  whom  we  come  in  contact. 
We  can  best  serve  by  teaching  the 
divinity  of  Jesus  Christ. 

As  I  formerly  began  my  organic  chem- 
istry lectures  each  fall  at  Utah  State 
University,  I  used  to  bring  to  my  class 
a  small  rectangular  metal  box.  It  was 
a  breadbox,  painted  green,  and  as  I 
brought  the  box  into  the  lecture  room 
and  put  it  on  the  lectern,  I  would  turn 
it  so  that  the  students  could  see  written 
on  the  front  of  it  "BREAD,"  and  that 
aroused  their  curiosity.  Every  fall  some 
student  would  accommodate  me  by  ask- 
ing "Why  the  bread,  Dr.  Burton?"  And 
that  would  give  me  my  cue  to  answer, 


"This  is  the  'bread  of  life'  of  organic 
chemistry."  This  made  them  curious  to 
know  what  I  had  in  the  box — sand- 
wiches, cake,  cookies,  or  perhaps  actual- 
ly bread  for  a  chemical  experiment. 

Later  on  in  the  lecture,  I  opened  the 
box  and  showed  them  what  was  in  it. 
They  were  amazed  to  see  that  the  box 
was  filled  with  tinker-toys.  Yes,  the 
box  was  filled  with  balls  and  sticks  and 
tight  coils  of  stiff  wire.  In  fact,  they 
looked  just  like  baby's  playthings,  and 
when  youngsters  came  into  my  labora- 
tory, and  I  had  to  amuse  them,  I  would 
actually  let  them  play  with  these  as 
toys.  The  only  difference  between  these 
toys  and  ordinary  tinker-toys  was  that 
the  balls  had  been  painted  various 
colors — green,  red,  blue,  purple,  black, 
white — and  that  the  holes  drilled  in  the 
balls  were  drilled  at  very  precise  angles. 

Chemists  use  these  tinker-toy  units 
to  construct  models  of  complex  organic 
compounds.  When  I  wanted  to  lecture, 
for  instance,  on  carbohydrates  to  show 
students  the  structure  of  sugar  or  the 
structure  of  starch  or  cellulose,  I  used 
these  tinker-toy  models  to  illustrate 
molecular  structure.  Or  when  I  lectured 
on  proteins  and  had  to  show  them  the 
structure  of  the  amino  acids  or  how 
these  were  put  together  to  form  protein 
molecules,  I  used  these  balls  and  sticks 
and  pieces  of  wire  to  show  how  the 
molecule  was  built  and  constructed. 

I  once  heard  an  internationally  known 
chemist  lecture  to  us  on  the  structure 
of  enzymes.  He  used  just  exactly  these 
tinker-toys,  building  first  one  part  and 
then   another  part,  and   putting  the 


ELDER  THEODORE  M.  BURTON 


127 


parts  together  until  he  finally  showed 
us  exactly  the  thing  that  he  wanted  to 
demonstrate.  Now,  wouldn't  it  be  ridic- 
ulous to  criticize  a  chemist  of  such 
stature  because  he  used  such  simple  tools 
or  to  regard  his  ideas  as  childish  because 
he  used  tinker-toy  models  to  illustrate 
his  ideas? 

It  is  the  use  that  determines  the  value 
of  a  thing — on  the  one  hand,  a  child's 
plaything,  but  on  the  other  hand  a  use- 
ful tool  in  the  hands  of  a  highly  trained, 
competent  scientist.  A  wise  man  looks 
at  the  results — not  the  tool.  A  simple 
tool  in  the  hands  of  a  skilled  craftsman 
would  be  a  marvelous  thing.  On  the 
other  hand,  the  finest  of  hand  tools,  or 
even  a  machine  tool,  in  the  hands  of 
a  clumsy  oaf  would  be  valueless. 

Now,  speaking  of  tools,  God  did  not 
hesitate  to  use  simple  tools  wherever 
he  had  to.  We  are  the  tools  of  God, 
and  God  has  had  to  use  men  wherever 
he  found  them  and  as  he  found  them. 
But  the  question  comes  to  one's  mind, 
Why  didn't  God,  for  instance,  speak  to 
Eli,  for  Eli  was  at  that  time  the  prophet 
and  high  priest  in  ancient  Israel?  But 
Eli  could  not  or  would  not  do  as  he 
was  told.  He  had  two  sons,  Hophni 
and  Phinehas.  They  were  heirs  to  the 
priesthood,  but  they  were  profligate  and 
wicked,  and  Eli  could  not  or  did  not 
control  them. 

Thus,  the  Lord  had  to  choose  some- 
one else.  He  chose  a  small  lad,  and 
as  God  called,  "Samuel,"  Samuel  an- 
swered: "Speak,  for  thy  servant  heareth." 
(1  Sam.  3:10.)  And  soon,  all  Israel 
from  Dan  to  Beersheba,  knew  that 
Samuel  was  a  prophet  of  God. 

When,  later  on,  the  great  King  Saul 
became  disobedient  and  had  to  be  set 
aside  and  replaced,  Samuel,  in  his  old 
age,  because  the  Lord  told  him  to  go 
to  the  house  of  Jesse,  would  have  chosen 
Eliab.  But  when  he  would  have  chosen 
Eliab,  the  Lord  said  to  Samuel,  ".  .  . 
Look  not  on  his  countenance,  or  on  the 
height  of  his  stature,  because  I  have 
refused  him:  for  the  Lord  seeth  not  as 
man  seeth;  for  man  looketh  on  the  out- 
ward appearance,  but  the  Lord  looketh 
on  the  heart."  (Ibid.,  16:7.) 

So  Abinadab,  Shammah — all  seven 
sons  of  Jesse  were  passed  over,  and  then 
the  Lord  told  Samuel  to  choose  David, 


the  shepherd  lad,  for  he  was  obedient 
enough  to  listen.  David  was  teachable, 
and  so  he  became  a  useful  tool  in  the 
hands  of  the  Lord. 

Why  was  John  the  Baptist  chosen  to 
be  the  Elias  to  announce  Jesus  Christ? 
There  were  twenty-eight  high  priests  in 
Jerusalem  between  the  years  B.C.  37 
and  A.D.  68,  yet  not  one  of  these 
learned,  highly  trained,  capable  men 
was  chosen.  And  why  was  not  Annas 
chosen  or  his  son-in-law,  Joseph 
Caiaphas?  Read  their  own  judgment 
recorded  in  the  words  of  the  scriptures 
when  they  sent  officers  to  arrest  Jesus, 
"Then  came  the  officers  to  the  chief 
priests  and  Pharisees;  and  they  said 
unto  them,  Why  have  ye  not  brought 
him? 

"The  officers  answered,  Never  man 
spake  like  this  man. 

"Then  answered  them  the  Pharisees, 
Are  ye  also  deceived? 

"Have  any  of  the  rulers  of  the  Phari- 
sees believed  on  him? 

"But  the  people  who  knoweth  not  the 
law  are  cursed."  (John  7:45-49.) 

In  other  words,  they  were  cursing 
those  who  believed  the  Son  of  God.  In 
the  pride  of  their  learning  they  were 
not  humble  enough  to  believe,  and 
God  could  not  use  such  people.  They 
had  ears,  but  they  could  not  hear. 
They  had  eyes,  but  they  could  not  see. 
And  so  it  was  that  God  promised  that 
in  the  last  days  he  would  restore  all 
things  of  the  kingdom,  and  just  as  the 
Lord  had  promised,  he  had  to  fulfil. 
So  it  came  time  for  the  Lord  to  keep 
the  promise  he  had  made  and  restore 
all  things,  but  he  needed  someone  on 
earth  he  could  trust.  He  needed  some- 
one he  could  teach. 

Why  didn't  he  take  the  learned, 
trained  theologians  of  that  day — men 
trained  in  the  ministry?  For  the  same 
reason,  brothers  and  sisters,  that  many 
times  he  cannot  use  some  of  us  because 
we  will  not  listen  or  we  cannot  listen. 

Now  hear  the  words  of  the  Lord: 
"But  behold,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that 
there  are  many  who  have  been  ordained 
among  you,  whom  I  have  called,  but 
few  of  them  are  chosen. 

"They  who  are  not  chosen  have  sinned 
a  very  grievous  sin,  in  that  they  are 


128 

Sunday,  April  9 

walking  in  darkness  at  noon-day." 
(D&C  95:5-6.) 

And  that  is  just  exactly  what  many 
of  us  do,  when  the  gospel  is  so  light 
and  so  bright  around  us  that  a  child 
could  see.  Many  times  we  close  our 
eyes  and  close  our  ears  and  will  not 
see  or  listen. 

So,  when  it  came  time  to  fulfil  all 
things,  the  Lord  had  to  choose  a  simple 
farmer  boy — Joseph  Smith — one  humble 
enough  to  listen,  one  obedient  to  God, 
one  who  would  not  rely  on  his  own  wis- 
dom, but  who  would  be  willing  to  learn 
and  to  obey. 

Now,  these  God-chosen  men  that  I 
have  mentioned  were  not  ignorant  men. 
They  were  plain  men  and  untrained, 
but  Joseph  Smith,  I  say,  was  a  learned 
man,  as  were  those  who  have  followed 
him  in  that  office.  A  learned  man  is 
one  well  informed,  one  who  knows  the 
truth,  one  who  has  great  knowledge, 
one  who  has  learned  the  truth  by 
instruction  and  by  study  and  by 
experience. 

Now,  Joseph  was  instructed  of  God, 
and  the  greater  the  teacher,  the  greater 
the  pupil  may  become.  So  Joseph,  who 
was  instructed  of  God,  became  a  very, 
very  learned  man.  These  men  we  sus- 
tained at  this  conference  as  prophets, 
seers,  and  revelators,  because  they  have 
been  instructed  of  God,  can  instruct  us, 
if  we  will  but  listen  and  open  our 
hearts. 

I  make  no  plea  for  ignorance,  brothers 
and  sisters.  I  do  not  speak  against 
education,  formal  training,  or  formal 
learning.  I  do  not  urge  our  people  to 
reject  a  university  education.  I  do  not 
believe  that  mere  possession  of  a  doctor's 
degree  makes  a  man  spiritually  un- 
reliable. To  the  contrary,  I  speak  as 
our  Church  leaders  have  always  spoken. 
Get  all  the  formal  learning  you  can 
afford.  Remember  this,  brothers  and 
sisters,  we  cannot  teach  what  we  do 
not  know.  Get  all  the  formal  learning 
you  can  possibly  afford,  and  if  possible 
get  a  terminal  degree.  Believe  implicitly 
in  the  word  of  the  Lord  as  it  has  come 
to  us.  "The  glory  of  God  is  intelli- 
gence, or,  in  other  words,  light  and 
truth."  (Ibid.,  93:36.) 

"Whatever  principle  of  intelligence 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

we  attain  unto  in  this  life,  it  will  rise 
with  us  in  the  resurrection. 

"And  if  a  person  gains  more  knowl- 
edge and  intelligence  in  this  life  through 
his  diligence  and  obedience  than  an- 
other, he  will  have  so  much  the  advan- 
tage in  the  world  to  come."  (Ibid., 
130:18-19.) 

"It  is  impossible  for  a  man  to  be 
saved  in  ignorance."  (Ibid.,  131:6.) 

I  see  before  me  wonderful  men  who 
have  been  used  in  this  Church  as  bish- 
ops and  stake  presidents,  members  of 
high  councils  and  patriarchs,  members 
of  general  boards,  highly  trained  scien- 
tists, both  men  and  women.  A  uni- 
versity education,  I  believe,  would  be 
desirable  for  every  intelligent  man  and 
woman  in  the  world,  but  I  must  speak 
the  same  warning  that  Paul  spoke: 
"Beware  lest  any  man  spoil  you  through 
philosophy  and  vain  deceit,  after  the 
tradition  of  men,  after  the  rudiments  of 
the  world,  and  not  after  Christ." 
(Col.  2:8.) 

Now,  brothers  and  sisters,  I  would  like 
to  stress  this  word,  "rudiments,"  because 
I  think  this  is  a  key  to  this  passage. 
A  rudiment  means  the  beginning  of 
knowledge.  A  little  learning  is  a  dan- 
gerous thing,  and  too  many  men  and 
too  many  women  who  have  become 
experts  in  a  tiny  field  of  learning  think 
that  because  they  are  trained  in  that 
field  of  learning,  they  are  experts  in 
all  fields  of  learning.  Many  men  who 
are  well-trained  in  one  limited  field 
feel  that  this  equally  qualifies  them  to 
express  learned  opinions  in  the  field 
of  faith  and  religion,  although  many  of 
them  have  never  done  any  studying  nor 
taken  a  class  in  these  subjects.  So,  I 
say  that  the  problem  is  not  that  they 
know  too  much,  but  that  they  know 
too  much  of  what  just  isn't  so.  Actually, 
they  know  too  little.  They  have  closed 
their  minds  to  anything  except  the 
philosophies  of  men. 

Now,  brothers  and  sisters,  in  our 
Church  in  this  day  and  age,  when  edu- 
cation is  becoming  more  and  more  popu- 
lar and  more  and  more  necessary,  there 
is  grave  danger  of  intellectual  apostasy. 
The  problem  is  that  of  a  closed  mind, 
as  I  see  it.  Jacob  taught  this  beautifully, 
as  we  read  it  in  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

"O  that  cunning  plan  of  the  evil  one! 


ELDER  THEODORE  M.  BURTON 


129 


O  the  vainness,  and  the  frailties,  and  the 
foolishness  of  men!  When  they  are 
learned  they  think  they  are  wise,  and 
they  hearken  not  unto  the  counsel  of 
God,  for  they  set  it  aside,  supposing 
they  know  of  themselves,  wherefore 
their  wisdom  is  foolishness  and  it  profit- 
eth  them  not.    And  they  shall  perish. 

"But  to  be  learned  is  good  if  they 
hearken  unto  the  counsels  of  God." 
(2  Nephi  9:28-29.) 

That  we  should  emphasize,  "To  be 
learned  is  good." 

What  causes  intellectual  apostasy? 
Why  do  some  learned  men  and  women 
turn  from  the  faith?  It  is  not  learning, 
for  there  are  hundreds  of  us,  thousands 
of  us,  equally  well-trained.  It  isn't 
being  exposed  to  different  ideas,  for  we 
too  were  exposed  to  these  ideas  in  the 
finest  universities  of  the  land.  Why, 
then,  do  they  lose  their  testimony? 
Principally  out  of  vanity  and  pride. 
They  want  to  impress  others  with  their 
learning.  To  put  it  indelicately,  it  is 
the  problem  of  the  swelled  head,  be- 
cause that  is  exactly  what  the  Prophet 
said. 

".  .  .  whoso  knocketh,"  Jacob  said, 
"to  him  will  he  open;  and  the  wise,  and 
the  learned,  and  they  who  are  rich,  who 
are  puffed  up"  and  that  you  see  is  just 
exactly  what  he  said — "who  are  puffed 
up  because  of  their  learning,  and  their 
wisdom,  and  their  riches — yea,  they  are 
they  whom  he  despiseth;  and  save  they 
shall  cast  these  things  away,  and  con- 
sider themselves  fools  before  God,  and 
come  down  in  the  depths  of  humility, 
he  will  not  open  unto  them."  (Ibid., 
9:42.) 

Now  remember,  it  isn't  the  simplicity 
of  the  tool  that  determines  its  value, 
but  the  skill  of  the  workman  who  uses 
that  tool.  God,  I  am  sure,  would  prefer 
to  use  the  most  skilled,  the  most  able, 
the  best-trained  person  that  he  could 
find,  but  that  person  must  be  humble 
and  he  must  be  teachable,  and  he  must 
be  willing  to  learn  something  new.  We, 
with  all  our  learning,  stand  just  at  the 
threshold  of  things  that  we  need  to 
know,  just  at  the  beginning  of  wisdom, 


with  the  rudiments  of  wisdom  in  our 
hands.  As  Paul  taught,  the  workman  is 
more  important  than  the  tool. 

"For  ye  see  your  calling,  brethren," 
he  said,  "how  that  not  many  wise  men 
after  the  flesh,  not  many  mighty,  not 
many  noble,  are  called: 

"But  .  .  .  God  hath  chosen  the  weak 
things  of  the  world  to  confound  the 
things  which  are  mighty; 

"...  that  no  flesh  should  glory  in 
his  presence. 

"But  of  him  are  ye  in  Christ  Jesus, 
who  of  God  is  made  unto  us  wisdom, 
and  righteousness,  and  sanctification, 
and  redemption."  (1  Cor.  1:26-27, 
29-30.) 

Over  the  library  of  the  Utah  State 
University  stands  in  big  gold  letters  a 
statement  taken  from  the  scriptures: 
"Get  wisdom,  and  with  all  thy  getting 
get  understanding."  (Prov.  4:7)  We  must 
feed  the  spirit  as  well  as  the  mind  and 
as  well  as  the  body.  I  plead  with  our 
youth,  get  learning,  and  with  all  your 
getting  get  understanding.  Get  learning 
of  the  spirit.  Get  learning  of  the  mind. 
Get  learning  of  the  soul,  and  become  a 
rounded  man  or  a  rounded  woman, 
learned  in  all  ways,  for  I  testify  to  you 
this  day  that  security,  true  security, 
comes  from  a  knowledge  of  the  divinity 
of  Jesus  Christ.  This  is  the  beginning 
of  all  learning  and  of  all  wisdom.  This 
is  the  greatest  knowledge,  the  greatest 
learning,  the  greatest  comfort  that  men 
can  have.  If  men  have  this  knowledge 
in  their  hearts,  they  can  withstand  all 
the  viscissitudes  of  life.  No  trial,  no 
trouble  can  come,  but  that  a  man  or  a 
woman  can  withstand  it.  He  can  rise 
victorious  if  he  has  a  love  of  Christ 
and  a  testimony  of  his  divinity  burning 
in  his  heart. 

I  testify  to  you  that  I  know  that  Jesus 
has  risen  from  the  dead;  that  he  lives 
and  exists  at  this  present  time;  that  he 
reveals  himself,  has  revealed  himself, 
and  continues  to  reveal  himself  to  his 
servants,  the  prophets.  I  honor  and 
sustain  them,  and  pledge  my  loyalty  to 
them,  and  bear  this  testimony  to  you  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


130 

Sunday,  April  9 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


Third  Day 


I  think  it  was  Thomas  Carlyle  who  said 
that  one  of  the  most  Godlike  of  virtues 
is  the  appreciation  of  human  worth  as 
shown  by  the  hearts  of  men.  I  am 
sure,  at  the  conclusion  of  this  great, 
inspirational  conference,  that  you  would 
have  me  express  your  appreciation  of  the 
services  rendered  by  all  who  have  con- 
tributed to  the  success  and  spirituality 
of  our  four  days'  conference. 

First,  to  the  General  Authorities,  we 
express  deep  appreciation  for  the  in- 
spirational messages  you  have  given  to 
us,  and  in  that  expression  we  express 
gratitude  to  our  Father  in  heaven  for 
having  inspired  each  one  who  has 
spoken. 

To  the  public  press,  you  reporters  and 
your  fair  and  accurate  reports  through- 
out the  sessions  of  the  conference,  your 
devotion  and  your  attendance  at  all  the 
services  during  the  day  or  evening 
sessions. 

We  appreciate  the  co-operation  of  the 
city  officials  and  commend  especially 
the  traffic  officers  for  handling  so  care- 
fully and  ably  the  increased  traffic;  the 
fire  department  and  the  Red  Cross,  who 
have  been  on  hand  to  render  assistance 
and  service  whenever  and  wherever  their 
service  would  be  needed. 

To  the  Tabernacle  ushers,  who  have 
rendered  a  service  quietly  and  efficiently 
in  seating  the  great  audiences  of  these 
conference  sessions.  I  noticed  one  in  the 
gallery  and  his  courtesy  in  the  way  he 
handled  one  who  rendered  a  little 
disturbance. 

We  mention  especially  the  radio  and 
television  officers  and  officials — twenty- 
seven  television  and  eighteen  radio  sta- 
tions throughout  our  own  city  and  the 
nation  have  carried  the  sessions  of  this 
conference.  This  has  been  the  means 
of  permitting  untold  thousands  to  hear 
the  proceedings  of  the  131st  conference 
of  this  Church. 

Friday  we  had  a  meeting  never  held 
before  in  the  history  of  the  Church. 
It  was  a  meeting  of  officers  of  stakes 
beyond  the  boundaries  of  our  country. 
Attending  this  meeting  were  stake 
presidencies  from  Australia,  New  Zea- 
land, Great  Britain,  and  Holland  who 
met    and    received    instructions  from 


members  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
officers  of  the  Bishopric,  and  members  of 
auxiliary  organizations.  That  is  an 
epoch-making  event  in  our  history! 

We  appreciate  those  who  furnished 
the  singing  throughout  this  entire  con- 
ference. I  know  your  hearts  respond 
most  heartily  to  expressions  of  gratitude 
for  the  inspiration  we  have  received 
ever  since  the  opening  session  when  the 
Primary  Teachers'  Chorus  from  nineteen 
stakes  of  Utah  County  rendered  such 
inspirational  singing.  They  filled  the 
seats  usually  occupied  by  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  members,  and  also  seats 
on  each  side  of  the  gallery.  I  think 
you  will  always  remember  that  solo  by 
thirteen-year-old  Ronnie  Clark.  There 
was  some  question  about  having  him 
sing,  but  his  voice  rang  out  in  such 
clearness  that  not  only  those  in  this 
Tabernacle  were  thrilled,  but  also  thou- 
sands listening  on  the  radio. 

To  the  combined  choirs  of  the  Logan 
Institute  of  Religion  and  the  Utah  State 
University  we  extend  our  thanks  for 
their  singing  on  Saturday  morning  and 
afternoon.  We  never  have  a  group  of 
young  people  filling  these  choir  seats 
without  being  thrilled,  not  only  by 
their  singing,  but  also  by  their  presence 
and  their  attitude  towards  religious 
matters. 

The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  Saturday  night — what  a  thrill 
they  gave  us,  and  always  do,  at  that 
inspirational  gathering!  We  were  also 
thrilled  with  the  tenor  solo  by  Brother 
Dennis  Clancy  of  Dundee,  Scotland, 
singing,  "I  Know  That  My  Redeemer 
Lives." 

Today,  I  think  we  have  never  heard 
the  "Hallelujah  Chorus"  sung  as  you 
heard  the  Tabernacle  Choir  render  that 
beautiful  and  inspiring  oratorio  at  the 
conclusion  of  this  morning's  session.  We 
thank  the  leaders  and  officers  of  the 
choir  and  especially  you  men  and 
women  who  devote  so  much  of  your 
time  and  give  so  freely  of  your  means  to 
inspire  not  only  the  entire  Church,  but 
also  now  the  whole  world. 

We  acknowledge  the  flowers — the 
daffodils  from  Puyallup  Valley  Daffodil 
Company,  the  calla  lilies  from  the  high 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


131 


priests'  quorum  of  the  Oakland-Berkeley 
Stake,  the  ten  thousand  sweet  peas  from 
the  Mesa  (Arizona)  Eleventh  Ward; 
and  all  others  who  have  contributed  in 
any  way  to  the  success  and  inspiration 
of  a  great  and  memorable  conference. 

I  should  like  to  say  just  a  word  at  the 
conclusion  in  expressing  appreciation  of 
the  worth  of  man,  of  the  service  of  the 
members  of  the  Church  in  building 
chapels,  and  in  other  responses  to  the 
calls  that  are  made  of  you.  I  marvel, 
and  I  think  all  members  of  the  Church 
marvel,  as  well  as  those  outside  of  the 
Church,  at  what  the  members  are  doing 
by  way  of  improving  places  of  worship 
and  of  supplying  the  need  for  public 
worship. 

Services  will  be  held  one  day  for  the 
breaking  of  the  ground — a  simple  mat- 
ter— and  one  year  or  eighteen  months 
later,  a  building  will  be  dedicated,  fifty 
percent  of  the  cost  of  which  was  borne 
by  the  people  themselves  out  of  their 
meager  earnings,  and  the  principal  part 
of  that  activity  and  that  contribution 
came  from  our  sisters  who  labored  dili- 
gently and  unceasingly  to  gather  the 
necessary  means  so  that  the  ward  will 
meet  its  share  of  the  expenses  of  the 
erection  of  the  house  of  worship.  God 
bless  our  sisters,  and  I  say  that  with 
all  my  heart. 

And  now,  brethren  and  sisters,  in 
summary,  let  me  emphasize  that  the 
noblest  aim  in  life  is  to  strive  to  live  to 
make  other  lives  better  and  happier. 
The  most  worthy  calling  in  life  is  that 
in  which  man  can  serve  best  his  fellow 
man. 

Browning  touches  that  great  theme 
in  his  poem,  "Paracelsus."  You  students, 
remember  how  Paracelsus  started  out  to 
gain  knowledge  for  himself,  even 
though  it  took  him  away  from  the 
people  themselves.  His  friend  Festus 
warned  him  not  to  withdraw  from  the 
people,  but  Paracelsus  concluded  that 
he  would  gain  learning  at  the  expense 
of  anybody  or  anything,  and  when 
Festus  cautioned  him,  he  said: 

"Festus,  are  there  not  two  experiences 

in  the  life  of  a  diver, 
One — when,  a  beggar,  he  prepares  to 

plunge, 


One— when,  a  prince,  he  rises  with  his 

pearl? 
Festus,  I  plunge." 

And  his  friend  standing  by  said:  "We 
await  you  when  you  rise." 

Years  later,  after  Paracelsus  had  failed 
in  his  efforts  to  find  the  soul  satisfac- 
tion he  sought,  Festus  found  him  in  a 
conjurer's  house,  and  Browning  puts 
into  his  mouth  the  following:  "There 
is  an  answer  to  the  passionate  longings 
of  the  human  heart  for  fulness,  and  I 
knew  it,  and  the  answer  is  this:  Live  in 
all  things  outside  yourself  by  love,  and 
you  will  have  joy.  That  is  the  life  of 
God;  it  ought  to  be  our  life.  In  Him 
it  is  accomplished  and  perfect;  but  in 
all  created  things,  it  is  a  lesson  learned 
slowly  through  difficulty." 

Such  is  the  divine  message  given  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  these 
words:  "Remember  the  worth  of  souls 
is  great  in  the  sight  of  God."  (D&C 
18:10.)  Such  is  the  philosophy  expressed 
by  the  Redeemer  in  the  seemingly  para- 
doxical statement,  "Whosoever  will  lose 
his  life  for  my  sake  shall  find  it." 
(Matthew  16:25.) 

The  meaning  of  this  becomes  clear 
in  the  light  of  another  passage  which 
says:  "Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it 
unto  one  of  the  least  of  these  my  breth- 
ren, ye  have  done  it  unto  me."  (Ibid., 
25:40.) 

To  no  other  group  of  men  in  all 
the  world  is  given  a  better  opportunity 
to  engage  in  the  noblest  calling  in  life 
than  that  which  is  afforded  the  elders 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  To  establish  salvation  and 
peace  to  the  extent  of  their  individual 
efforts,  their  lives  are  dedicated.  To 
make  the  world  a  better  or  a  safer  or 
a  fitter  place  for  man,  their  talents  and 
means  are  consecrated. 

Just  to  be  associated  with  you,  with 
men  striving  toward  such  an  aim,  is 
joy;  and  to  assist  you  in  this  quest,  an 
inspiration.  Unselfishly  you  are  trying 
to  serve  your  fellow  men  in  love.  You 
are  true  followers  of  the  Master,  for  to 
those  who  have  the  Christian  faith,  the 
most  sublime  of  its  teachings,  and  to 
him  who  penetrates  its  deepest  sense, 
the  most  human  of  all  is  this:  To  save 
mankind,  God  came  to  dwell  among  us 


132 

Sunday,  April  9 

in  the  form  of  man  and  was  willing  to 
make  himself  known  by  this  simple 
though  glorious  principle,  Love. 

The  animal  world  is  filled  with 
selfishness,  each  thing  seeking  its  own 
life,  its  own  perpetuation.  But  Christ 
lived  for  love.  ".  .  .  love  the  Lord  thy 
God  with  all  thy  might,  mind,  and 
strength,  and  thy  neighbour  as  thyself." 
(See  Mark  12:30-31.) 

God  bless  the  elders  and  our  sisters, 
who,  if  not  with  perfect  love,  at  least 
with  a  desire  to  bring  joy  and  peace  to 
others,  are  engaged  in  the  noblest  calling 
of  life.  Worthy  servants  of  Christ  you 
are!  Teachers,  followers  of  the  true 
Teacher,  the  great  Exemplar  of  all,  our 
Redeemer,  our  Lord.  There  is  none 
greater  than  this  noble  work,  none  more 
righteous.  Yours  is  the  joy  promised  by 
the  Savior,  who  said:  "And  if  it  so  be 
that  you  should  labor  all  your  days  in 
crying  repentance  unto  this  people,  and 
bring,  save  it  be  one  soul  unto  me,  how 
great  shall  be  your  joy  with  him  in  the 
kingdom  of  my  Father! 

"And  now,  if  your  joy  will  be  great 
with  one  soul  that  you  have  brought 
unto  me  into  the  kingdom  of  my  Father, 
how  great  will  be  your  joy  if  you  should 
bring  many  souls  unto  me!"  (D&C 
18:15-16.) 

That  is  the  word  of  the  Lord. 

God  sanctify  this  wonderful  confer- 
ence to  the  good  of  all  who  have  lis- 
tened in,  and  through  you  who  are 
present,  your  households  and  your  young 
boys  and  girls  who  have  not  heard,  but 
who  will  feel  your  influence  in  your 
own  homes. 

May  the  homes  of  the  Church  every- 
where be  better  because  of  this  con- 
ference than  they  have  been  in  the 
past,  and  be  an  example  to  the  whole 
world,  a  great  majority  of  whom  during 
the  last  forty  years  have  had  their  minds 
poisoned  by  a  false  ideology  that  re- 
jects the  existence  of  God  the  Father, 
refuses  to  acknowledge  the  divinity  of 
his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  would  destroy 
the  home  life,  the  very  foundation  of 
our  future  by  taking  the  children  and 
making  them  members  of  the  state  in- 
stead of  leaving  them  with  their  mothers 
and  fathers. 

With  all  the  power  that  we  possess, 
we  bless  you,  members  of  the  Church  of 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Dan 

Jesus  Christ.  May  the  power  and  the 
inspiration  that  have  characterized  this 
great  conference,  including  last  night's 
great  priesthood  meeting,  go  to  every 
corner  of  the  earth  where  there  is  a 
branch  or  where  a  family  lives,  I  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  favor 
us  with  an  anthem,  "Glorious  Everlast- 
ing," conducted  by  Richard  P.  Condie. 
The  benediction  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Arthur  L.  Barrus,  president  of  the 
Grantsville  Stake,  after  which  this  Con- 
ference will  be  adjourned  for  six 
months. 

There  will  be  a  Deseret  Sunday 
School  Union  Conference  in  this  build- 
ing at  seven  o'clock  this  evening.  All 
Sunday  School  workers  will  wish  to  be 
in  attendance,  and  the  public  is 
cordially  invited. 

Ward  sacrament  meetings  will  be  held 
this  evening  in  the  various  wards. 

The  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "Glorious 
Everlasting." 

Elder  Arthur  L.  Barrus,  president  of 
the  Grantsville  Stake,  offered  the 
benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  sine  die. 


The  Primary  Teachers  Chorus  from 
19  Stakes  of  Utah  County  furnished 
the  musical  numbers  for  the  morning 
and  afternoon  sessions  Thursday,  April 
6.  Sister  Lue  Groesbeck  was  the 
conductor. 

On  Saturday,  April  8,  the  music  for 
the  morning  and  afternoon  sessions 
was  furnished  by  the  Combined  Choirs 
of  the  Logan  L.D.S.  Institute  of  Religion 
and  the  Utah  State  University.  James 
L.  Bradley  was  the  conductor  at  the 
morning  meeting  and  Alma  L.  Dittmer 
was  the  conductor  at  the  afternoon 
meeting. 

The  music  for  the  General  Priesthood 
meeting  Saturday  evening,  April  8,  was 
furnished  by  the  Men  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Richard  P.  Condie,  conductor. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  Richard  P. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


133 


Condie,  conductor,  and  Jay  E.  Welch, 
assistant  conductor,  furnished  the  choral 
numbers  for  the  Sunday  morning  and 
afternoon  sessions. 

Richard  P.  Condie,  Tabernacle  Choir 
Conductor,  directed  the  singing  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  at  the  Church  of  the 
Air  services  and  also  the  Tabernacle 


Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  Sunday 
morning. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on 
the  Organ  were  played  by  Alexander 
Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper  and  Roy  M. 
Darley. 

JOSEPH  ANDERSON 
Clerk  of  the  Conference 


134 

Sunday,  April  9 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 
CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


Third  Day 


Columbia  Broadcasting  System's 
Church  of  the  Air  was  presented  at 
7:35  a.m.  Sunday,  April  9,  1961.  The 
program  was  as  follows: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the 
direction  of  Richard  P.  Condie,  fur- 
nished the  music  for  this  service,  with 
Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ.  Richard 
L.  Evans  was  the  announcer. 

Music:  Organ  and  humming  choir: 
"Sweet  Is  The  Work." 

Announcer:  The  Church  of  the  Air 
is  presented  by  CBS  Radio  so  that 
representatives  of  many  faiths  may  ad- 
dress a  nationwide  congregation.  Today's 
service,  presented  by  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  comes 
to  you  from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle 
on  Temple  Square,  through  the  facili- 
ties of  station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah.  Our  speaker  is  Elder  Mark  E. 
Petersen,  a  member  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church. 
Music  is  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir, 
directed  by  Richard  P.  Condie. 


With  the  music  of  George  Careless 
and  the  words  by  Parley  P.  Pratt,  the 
Choir  sings  these  words  of  faith  and 
solid  assurance:  "The  morning  breaks, 
the  shadows  flee;  Lo,  Zion's  standard  is 
unfurled!  The  dawning  of  a  brighter 
day,  Majestic  rises  on  the  world." 

(The  Choir  Sang:  "The  Morning 
Breaks,  The  Shadows  Flee." — Careless.) 

Announcer:  With  the  music  of 
Charles  Gounod,  arranged  by  Nobel 
Cain,  the  Tabernacle  Choir  turns  to  an 
earnest  moving  song  of  pleading  and 
repentance:  "O  Divine  Redeemer." 

(The  Choir  Sang:  "O  Divine  Re- 
deemer."— Gounod. ) 

Announcer:  We  hear  now  on  this 
Church  of  the  Air  Service  Elder  Mark 
E.  Petersen,  author,  newspaper  pub- 
lisher, and  member  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  fre- 
quently referred  to  as  the  Mormon 
Church.  Today's  talk  is  titled:  "Our 
Need  for  Better  Parents." 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  wish  to  talk  with  you  today  about 
our  youth,  our  homes,  and  our  future. 

May  I  first  remind  you  that  students 
of  youthful  trends  and  activities  empha- 
size the  fact  that  our  juvenile  problem 
is  now  more  than  ever  an  adult  prob- 
lem, and  that  the  only  way  to  solve  it 
is  to  provide  our  youth  with  better 
parents. 

There  can  be  no  doubt  that  children 
learn  most  of  their  moral  behavior 
within  the  family  and  that  behavior 
patterns  are  fixed  at  an  early  age.  To 
change  them  later  in  life  is  such  a 
slow  and  difficult  task  that  many  con- 
sider it  almost  impossible.  Hence,  the 
only  way  to  build  good  adults  for  the 
future  is  to  provide  children  with  better 
parents  now. 

In  a  recent  address  Mr.  J.  Edgar 
Hoover,  the  head  of  the  F.B.I.,  ex- 
pressed this  thought:  "Given  discipline, 
young  people  will  learn  self-discipline; 
given  training,  they  will  learn  to  live 
useful  lives.    In  almost  every  case,  the 


failure  to  develop  character  is  directly 
attributable  to  a  lack  of  proper  influ- 
ence and  guidance  in  the  home." 

Surveys  and  studies  made  in  various 
parts  of  the  United  States  indicate  that 
80  per  cent  of  our  delinquent  children 
say  that  they  had  no  real  family  life, 
and  that  their  parents  were  too  busy 
with  other  things  to  give  them  any 
guidance.  Nearly  all  of  these  de- 
linquents said  that  there  was  no  re- 
ligion in  their  homes,  and  that  their 
parents  set  them  a  bad  example. 

Lack  of  Religion 

Lack  of  religion  is  characteristic  of 
delinquent  families.  It  is  interesting  to 
note  that  a  police  report  from  one  large 
American  city  showed  that  84  per  cent 
of  the  juvenile  criminals  in  that  city 
did  not  attend  any  church.  A  juvenile 
court  judge  in  Michigan  reports  that 
last  year,  91  per  cent  of  the  youngsters 
appearing  in  his  court  had  no  religious 
training. 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


135 


Lack  of  faith  among  children  gener- 
ally reflects  the  attitude  of  their  parents. 
If  the  parents  have  no  religion,  they  can 
hardly  teach  it  to  their  children.  And 
yet,  religion  is  our  best  deterrent  to 
juvenile  crime. 

Mr.  Hoover  analyzes  the  problem  in 
this  way:  "The  basic  cause  of  the 
present  (juvenile  delinquency)  situation 
is  that  so  many  of  our  young  people 
have  no  real  sense  of  moral  responsi- 
bility which  comes  from  an  intimate 
knowledge  of  God's  teachings.  The 
tragic  void  of  God  and  Prayer  in  their 
lives  weakens  our  homes  and  our  Na- 
tion's welfare." 

America  seems  to  have  forgotten  that 
true  religion  is  the  very  source  of  its 
freedom  and  strength,  because  nearly 
half  the  parents  of  this  land  appear  to 
withhold  religion  from  their  children. 

Does  it  shock  you  to  learn  that  al- 
most 50  per  cent  of  our  population  be- 
longs to  no  church  at  all? 

Do  you  know  the  price  which  the 
irreligious  have  to  pay  for  their  rejec- 
tion of  God? 

Antidote  to  Communism 

It  is  a  well-known  fact  that  Com- 
munism is  rooted  in  the  irreligious.  It 
is  anti-religion  and  anti-Christ.  Do  we 
want  Communism  in  America?  When 
nearly  half  of  our  population  is  irreli- 
gious are  you  not  frightened  by  the  fact 
that  Communism  is  based  upon  a  re- 
jection of  religion?  Living  the  Gospel 
of  Christ  is  our  strongest  antidote  to 
Communism. 

Crime,  which  is  increasing  at  an 
alarming  rate  in  America,  also  is  rooted 
in  the  irreligious.  It  too  is  anti-Christ, 
violates  the  Golden  Rule  which  deals 
with  our  treatment  of  our  fellowman, 
and  which  Christ  taught  during  his 
earthly  ministry. 

Crime  is  selfish,  brutal,  and  deceitful. 
Do  we  want  criminals  and  gangsters  to 
run  our  country?  Is  it  within  the  range 
of  possibility  since  so  many  of  our  peo- 
ple have  practically  banished  all  forms 
of  religion  from  their  lives,  setting  aside 
the  very  basis  of  character-building, 
honesty,  and  integrity? 

Mr.  Hoover  has  said  that  either  faith 
in  God  must  triumph  in  the  United 


States,  or  we  will  be  dominated  by  crim- 
inals and  Communists. 

Is  being  irreligious  worth  the  price 
we  must  pay  for  it?  Are  ease,  pleasure, 
and  irresponsibility  worth  the  price  we 
must  pay  for  an  abandonment  of  good 
character? 

Is  there  any  real  joy  in  wickedness, 
weakness,  or  carelessness?  Is  ignoring 
God  the  way  to  enduring  happiness? 

America  may  well  remember  that  it 
is  in  Godless  countries  where  people 
are  slaves.  It  is  in  Godless  countries 
where  dictators  reign,  and  where  iron 
curtains  shut  out  all  freedom  and  op- 
portunity for  the  average  individual.  In 
such  countries  worship  of  God  is  pun- 
ished in  many  subtle  ways  because  dic- 
tators know  from  past  history  that  there 
is  power  and  strength  in  religion,  while 
it  is  their  plan  to  keep  their  people  weak 
and  subdued. 

In  homes  where  parents  are  irreligious, 
the  children  grow  up  without  God, 
without  faith,  or  prayer,  or  the  spiritual 
strength  which  builds  good  character. 

Parents  As  Examples 

In  our  love  of  pleasure  and  money- 
making,  we  too  often  neglect  to  set  our 
children  examples  in  good  living,  in 
dealing  fairly  and  honestly  with  their 
fellows,  in  telling  the  truth,  in  doing 
unto  others  as  they  would  be  done  by, 
in  learning  to  respect  law  and  order, 
in  reading  good  books  and  seeing  to  it 
that  their  homes  contain  many  of  them; 
in  looking  on  honest  work  as  a  duty 
and  a  privilege. 

Many  children  now-a-days  know  but 
little  about  work,  except  that  it  is  for 
the  other  fellow,  and  yet  it  is  one  of 
the  first  laws  God  ever  gave  to  man. 

Not  one  among  us,  if  we  gave  it  any 
thought,  would  purposely  and  with  de- 
sign nurture  in  the  hearts  of  our  chil- 
dren the  seeds  of  failure  and  crime.  Yet 
these  seeds  grow  in  a  lack  of  faith  in 
God,  a  rejection  of  church  activity,  a 
neglect  of  the  simple  habits  which  make 
parents  and  children  a  family,  and 
which  make  a  house  a  home. 

We  must  learn  to  become  better  par- 
ents. We  must  build  better  homes.  We 
can  do  this  by  showing  our  children  the 
attention  they  deserve.  We  can  provide 
them   with  the  companionship  they 


136 

Sunday,  April  9 

need,  and  set  before  them  good  exam- 
ples in  our  own  lives. 

We  can  do  many  things  together  as 
a  family.  We  can  plan  family  recrea- 
tion, and  family  work  and  responsibility 
from  earliest  childhood.  Each  child 
should  have  his  own  definite  duties  as- 
signed to  him,  whether  it  be  to  help 
mother  with  the  housework,  or  wash 
the  car,  or  lend  a  hand  with  the  yard 
work.  Regularity  of  work  responsibili- 
ties is  vital  to  the  development  of 
children. 

Truth  and  honesty  should  be  held 
before  them  constantly.  There  can  be 
no  success  without  integrity.  We  rob 
our  loved  ones  of  their  opportunities  if 
we  fail  to  prepare  them  for  the  advance- 
ment which  can  be  made  only  upon 
the  principles  of  good  character. 

Above  all  we  can  teach  our  children 
the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  It 
is  the  foundation  of  good  character. 
It  is  the  way  to  success. 

Live  the  Gospel 

We  can  study  the  Gospel  ourselves 
and  live  it.  We  can  worship  God  in 
our  homes.  We  can  become  active  in 
our  church  and  teach  our  children  to 
do  likewise. 

Do  you  think  that  the  children  will 
resent  it?  Statistics  show  that  85  per 
cent  of  the  young  people  of  America 
hope  their  parents  will  give  them  lead- 
ership in  religious  and  character-build- 
ing matters.  Delinquent  children  admit 
that  there  was  no  such  training  in 
their  homes. 

Then  as  parents,  let  us  acknowledge 
that  lack  of  leadership  on  our  part  in 
giving  our  children  spiritual  and  char- 
acter-building instruction  may  result  in 
serious  difficulty  for  them. 

Let  us  be  willing  to  face  the  fact  that 
we  really  are  the  custodians  and  the 
guardians  of  our  little  ones,  and  that 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

if  we  neglect  that  guardianship  we  do 
them  irreparable  harm. 

We  must  not  surrender  our  guardian- 
ship. Both  the  law  of  the  land  and  the 
law  of  God  make  us  the  heads  of  our 
homes.  Let  us  take  the  leadership 
there,  assert  our  position  and  lead  our 
children  in  love  and  kindness,  but  with 
firm  and  intelligent  discipline,  into  the 
paths  of  right. 

For  the  love  of  our  children,  for  the 
sake  of  their  future  development,  for 
their  happiness  and  well  being,  let  us 
restore  family  life  and  the  true  worship 
of  God  to  our  homes.  Let  us  keep  faith 
with  our  families.  Their  destiny  is  in 
our  hands. 

(The  Choir  sang:  "I  Know  That  My 
Redeemer  Lives." — Edwards.) 

Announcer:  From  the  Choir  we  have 
heard  the  music  of  a  hymn  tune  by 
Lewis  D.  Edwards  which  recalls  the 
witness  of  these  words:  "I  Know  That 
My  Redeemer  Lives." 

And  now  from  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
we  hear  the  comforting  strengthening 
words  of  a  New  Testament  text,  with 
music  from  the  Crucifixion  by  Sir  John 
Stainer:  "God  so  loved  the  world,  that 
He  gave  His  only  begotten  Son,  that 
whoso  believeth  in  Him  should  not 
perish  but  have  everlasting  life." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "God  So  Loved 
The  World."— Stainer.) 

Music:  Organ  and  humming  choir: 
"Sweet  Is  The  Work." 

Announcer:  You  have  been  attending 
CBS  Radio's  Church  of  The  Air.  To- 
day's service  came  to  you  from  the 
Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square, 
through  the  facilities  of  station  KSL  in 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  Our  speaker  was 
Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen,  a  member  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  Music  was  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  directed  by  Richard  P.  Condie. 


SALT  LAKE  MORMON  TABERNACLE  CHOIR 
AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah  was  presented  from  9:35  to 
10:00  a.m.  Sunday,  April  9,  1961, 
through    the   courtesy    of  Columbia 


Broadcasting  System's  network,  through- 
out the  United  States,  parts  of  Canada, 
and  through  other  facilities  to  several 
points  overseas.  The  broadcast  was  as 
follows: 

(The  organ  played,  "As  the  Dew 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


137 


From  Heaven  Distilling,"  and  on  signal 
the  Choir  and  organ  broke  into  the 
hymn,  "Gently  Raise  the  Sacred  Strain," 
singing  the  words  to  the  end  of  the  sec- 
ond line,  and  humming  to  end  of  verse 
for  announcer's  background.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  within  these  walls  with  music  and 
the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  and  its  af- 
filiated stations  bring  you  at  this  hour 
another  presentation  from  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with  Richard 
P.  Condie  conducting  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Frank  Asper,  Tabernacle  Organ- 
ist, and  the  spoken  word  by  Richard 
Evans. 

We  hear  first  an  earnest  pleading 
hymn  of  a  prayerful  heart,  with  words 
and  music  by  Philip  Paul  Bliss:  "More 
holiness  give  me.  More  striving  within; 
More  patience  in  suffering,  More  sorrow 
for  sin;  More  faith  in  my  Saviour; 
More  sense  of  his  care;  More  joy  in  his 
service,  More  purpose  in  prayer." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "More  Holiness 
Give  Me."— Bliss.) 

Announcer:  From  the  music  of  Ralph 
Kinder,  Frank  Asper  recalls  a  mood  of 
light  and  loveliness,  of  the  beauty  and 
hope  of  the  peace  and  repentance  that 
come  with  the  world's  reawakening: 
"In  Springtime." 

(Organ  Selection:  "In  Springtime." 
— Kinder.) 

Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
sings  Charles  Gounod's  music  with 
words  taken  from  two  Old  Testament 
texts:  "Lovely  Appear  Over  the  Moun- 
tains, the  feet  of  them  that  preach,  and 
bring  good  news  of  peace.  Ye  moun- 
tains, ye  perpetual  hills,  bow  ye  down. 
Over  the  barren  wastes  shall  flowers 
now  have  possession." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Lovely  Appear." 
— Gounod.) 

Announcer:  In  one  of  his  writings, 
Dostoevsky  recalled  the  poignant  remark 
of  a  young  man  who  knew  he  had  only 
a  little  left  of  mortal  life  to  live:  ".  .  . 
It's  natural  to  believe,"  he  said,  "that 
everyone  else  thinks  too  little  of  life 
and  is  apt  to  waste  it  too  cheaply,  and 
to  use  it  too  lazily,  too  shamelessly,  .  .  . 
It's  life  that  matters,  nothing  but  life — 
the  process  of  discovering,  the  everlasting 


and  perpetual  process.  ...  If  he's  alive 
he  has  everything  in  his  powerl  Whose 
fault  is  it  he  doesn't  understand  that?"1 
If  he's  alive  he  has  everything!  It  must 
follow  then  that  he  who  is  not  alive 
has  nothing.  And  he  who  has  only 
mortal  life,  only  limited  life,  has  too 
little — because  every  day  he  lives  brings 
him  ever  nearer  to  the  end  of  all  that 
means  much  of  anything  at  all.  It  is  as 
Ruskin  remarked:  "There  is  no  Wealth 
but  Life"2 — therefore,  the  impact  of  this 
passage:  "Behold,  he  that  hath  eternal 
life  is  rich."3  This  brings  us  again  to 
the  importance  of  beliefs,  briefly  men- 
tioned last  week— the  importance  of 
perspective,  the  importance  of  putting 
important  and  unimportant  things  in 
proper  place — for  what  we  believe  about 
ourselves,  about  others,  about  God, 
about  life  is  of  incalculable  consequence, 
for  what  a  man  believes,  or  knows,  or 
thinks  he  is,  or  thinks  life's  purpose  is, 
determines  largely  how  he  lives,  and 
how  he  lives  determines  largely  what 
he's  like — including  the  accumulations 
that  represent  his  efforts  and  his  in- 
terests. Not  to  work  for  the  good  we 
believe  would  be  a  waste  of  life.  And 
we  well  would  look  to  what  we  do,  to 
what  we  make,  to  what  causes  we  serve, 
to  all  our  choices,  to  the  commandments 
we  keep,  to  the  love  and  respect  of  fam- 
ily and  friends,  and  to  the  reality  of 
our  relationship  to  Him  who  made  us 
in  His  image  and  who  keeps  creation 
in  its  course,  and  from  whom  we  have 
the  assurance  that  people  and  person- 
ality are  eternally  perpetuated,  and  that 
hereafter,  even  as  here,  we  shall  know 
and  recognize,  in  literal  reality,  our 
family  and  friends — and  always  be  our 
separate  selves.  Time  is  short — but 
eternity  is  endlessly  long,  and  "It's  life 
that  matters,  .  .  .  the  everlasting  per- 
petual process.  ...  He  [who  is  alive] 
.  .  .  has  everything.  .  .  .  Whose  fault 
is  it  if  he  doesn't  understand  that?"1 

Announcer:  And  now  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  sings  a  16th  Century  melody  by 
Louis  Bourgeois  with  words  paraphrased 
from  the  100th  Psalm:  "All  people  that 
on  earth  do  dwell,  Sing  to  the  Lord  with 
cheerful  voice  .  .  .  Come  ye  before 
Him  and  rejoice." 

^yodor  Dostoevsky,  From  The  Idiot. 
•John  Ruskin,  Unto  This  Last,  Sect.  77. 
•Doctrine  &  Covenants  6:7. 


138 

Sunday,  April  9 

(The  Choir  sang:  "All  People  That 
On  Earth  Do  Dwell." — Bourgeois.) 

Announcer:  Frank  Asper  turns  to  a 
hymn  melody  by  George  Careless: 
"Softly  Beams  The  Sacred  Dawning." 

(Organ  Selection:  "Softly  Beams  The 
Sacred  Dawning." — Careless.) 

Announcer:  With  Albert  Fallows  as 
soloist,  the  Tabernacle  Choir  sings 
James  MacDermid's  setting  for  this 
comforting,  reassuring  New  Testament 
text:  "In  My  Father's  House  Are  Many 
mansions;  if  it  were  not  so  I  would 
have  told  you." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "In  My  Father's 
House." — MacDermid.) 

Announcer:  With  the  music  of  Evan 
Stephens,  we  hear  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
recall  in  closing  the  words  of  Eliza  R. 
Snow:  "Awake,  Ye  Saints  of  God, 
Awake;  call  on  the  Lord  in  mighty 
prayer.  .  .  ." 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Awake,  Ye  Saints 
of  God."— Stephens.) 

Announcer:  Again  we  leave  you  with- 
in the  shadows  of  the  everlasting  hills. 
May  peace  be  with  you,  this  day — and 
always. 

This  concludes  the  sixteen  hundred 
fifty  first  presentation,  continuing  the 
32nd  year  of  this  traditional  broadcast 
from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Tem- 
ple Square,  brought  to  you  by  CBS 
Radio  and  its  affiliated  stations,  origi- 
nating with  Radio  Station  KSL  in  Salt 
Lake  City. 

Richard  P.  Condie  conducted  the 
Tabernacle  Choir.  Frank  Asper  was  at 
the  organ.  The  spoken  word  by 
Richard  Evans. 

In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 
hour,  music  and  the  spoken  word  will 
be  heard  again  from  the  Crossroads  of 
the  West. 


Index 


Page 

Anderson,  Elder  Joseph    20 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present    1 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained    28 

Bennett,  Sir  Thomas    14 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft   110 

Buehner,  Bishop  Carl  W   35 

Burton,  Elder  Theodore  M  126 

Changes  in  Church  Organizations    20 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast   136 

Christiansen,  Elder  EIRay  L   72 

Church  of  the  Air  134 

Church  Finance  Committee  Report    31 

Critchlow,  Elder  William  J.  Jr   54 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   75 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L  137 

(Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast) 

Finance  Committee  Report    31 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting   3 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   19 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Present    1 

General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers  Sustained    28 

General  Priesthood  Meeting    83 

Hanks,  Elder  Marion  D  102 

Hinckley,  Elder  Gordon  B   87 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Hunter,  Elder  Howard  W   16 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  R   50 

Isaacson,  Bishop  Thorpe  B   60 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   40 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W   77 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B   32 

Longden,  Elder  John   120 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R   38 

McKay,  President  David  0   4 

(Opening  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  0   96 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 
McKay,  President  David  0  130 

(Closing  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  0   3,  4,  8,  11,  14,  16,  19,  20,  28,  31,  35, 

37,  40,  42,  46,  47,  48,  50,  54,  58,  60,  63,  64,  68, 
69,  72,  74,  77,  81,  83,  87,  90,  93,  96,  97,  98,  102, 
106,  110,  114,  115,  116,  120,  124,  126,  130,  132. 

Moyle,  President  Henry  D   28 

(Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers) 

Moyle,  President  Henry  D   93 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 
Moyle,  President  Henry  D   98 


140  INDEX 


Page 

Obituaries    26 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E   90 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 
Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E  134 

(Church  of  the  Air) 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers    28 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General    83 

Richards,  Elder  Franklin  D   83 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand    42 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G  116 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting    47 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    64 

Sill,  Elder  Sterling  W   9 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G   68 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding   48 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma   58 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L   65 

Statistical  Report    26 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers    28 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast   136 

Tanner,  Elder  Nathan  Eldon   106 

Taylor,  Elder  Henry  D  124 

Third  Day — Morning  Meeting    97 

Third  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   115 

Wirthlin,  Bishop  Joseph  L   12 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth   69 


Printed  by 


in  the  United  States  of  America 


