*  * 

t  t 

t  t 

I  Seventy- Second  j 
! Annual  Conference! 

■i  t 

*  * 

I  OF  THE  J 

i  * 

3  t 

J  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST  OF  | 

$  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS.  $ 

£  * 

J  HELD  IN  THE  TABERNACLE,  * 

t  * 


|  Salt  Lake  City,  April  4th,  5th,  and  6th,  1902  f 


*  WITH  A  * 

FULL  REPORT  OF  THE  DISCOURSES.  * 

t 
* 

* 

I  ! 

|  ALSO  AN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  GENERAL  CONFERENCE  % 

J  OF  THE  DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  J 

{  UNION.  $ 

t    t 

i  $ 

*  THE  DESERET  NEWS-  •  * 
T!                                                                        ion-?  "f1 


*  1902 


Profusely  Illustrated 
with  Etchings  and 
Half  Tones. 


A  Magazine  and  a 
Daily  Newspaper 
Combined. 


The 
Saturday 
News 

24  PAGES. 


Sent  to  any  address 

To  regular  subscribers 

for    $2.00  a  Year. 

of  the  Semi -Weekly 

tffc              Ij^l               (fifa  tfi^ 

News,  $1.50  a  Year. 

SEVENTY-SECOND 


ANNUAL  CONFERENCE 

OF 

THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 


FIRST  DAY. 


The  Seventy-second  Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the 
Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  at  10  a.  m., 
April  4,  1902,  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith  presiding. 

There  were  present  of  the  General 
Authorities:  Of  the  First  Presidency, 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  John  R.  Winder  and 
Anthon  H.  Lund.  Of  the  Council  of 
Apostles  there  were:  George  Teasdale, 
Heber  J.  Grant,  John  W.  Taylor,  Mar- 
riner  "W.  Merrill,  Matthias  F.  Cowley, 
Abraham  O.  Woodruff,  Rudger  Claw- 
son,  Reed  Smoot  and  Hyrum  M.  Smith; 
Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church, 
John  Smith;  first  seven  presidents  of 
Seventies,  Seymour  B.  Young,  Chris- 
tian D.  Fjeldsted,  Brigham  H.  Roberts, 
George  Reynolds,  Jonathan  G.  Kim- 
bal,  Rulon  S.  Wells  and  Joseph  W. 
McMurrin;  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric, 
William  B.  Preston,  Robert  T.  Bur- 
ton and  Orrin  P.  Miller.  There  were 
likewise  a  large  number  of  presidents 
of  stakes,  their  counselors  and  other 
leading  men  of  the  Priesthood. 

The  choir  sang: 

Come,  dearest  Lord,  descend  and  dwell 
By  faith  and  love,  in  every  breast; 
Then  shall  we  know  and   taste  and 
feel 

The  joys  that  cannot  be  expressed. 


The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Edward  H.  Snow. 

Singing  by  the  choir  and  congrega- 
tion: 

Our  God,  we  raise  to  Thee 
Thanks  for  Thy  blessings  free, 
We  here  enjoy. 

I 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

OPENING  ADDRESS. 

Righteousness  increasing  emorg  ihe  Sairts—  Fur- 
poses  of  God  will  be  fuiij  acc(  irjinhf  6-  His 
kindness  and  mercy  to  the  Saints—  Ecci  uiage- 
ment  and  blessings  for  the  people. 

It  is  certainly  gratifying  to  see  so 
many  of  our  brethren  and  sisters  as- 
sembled here  at  the  opening  session  of 
this  the  Seventy-second  annual  con'er- 
ence  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  EverytV"' 
seems  propitious  for  a  time  of  rejoic- 
ing and  profit  in  instruction  and  ad- 
monition and  the  outpouring  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  upon  the  servants  of  the 
Lord  who  may  speak  and  upon  those 
who  shall  assemble  to  hear  from  day  to 
day.  The  weather  is  delightful,  and  I 
believe  that  the  spirit  of  the  people  is 
good,  and  that  there  is  an  earnest  de- 
sire in  the  hearts  of  the  La  ter-day 
Saints  to  promote  all  the  interests  of 
the  kingdom  of  God  in  the  earth  and 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  welfare  of  the  Saints  of  the  Most 
High. 

I  believe  that  the  desire  in  the 
hearts  of  the  people  to  serve  the  Lord 
and  to  work  righteousness  in  the  earth 
is  steadily — although  it  may  be  slowly, 
yet  steadily  and  surely — increasing; 
and  I  do  believe  with  all  my  heart  that 
this  desire  will  be  more  and  more  ear- 
nest and  more  and  more  pronounced 
in  the  hearts  of  the  people  of  God  from 
time  to  time  and  from  year  to  year, 
as  we  grow  in  grace  and  in  the  know- 
ledge of  the  truth,  until  the  coming  of 
the  Son  of  Man. 

The  kingdom  of  God  is  here  to  grow, 
to  spread  abroad,  to  take  root  in  the 
earth,  and  to  abide  where  the  Lord 
has  planted  it  by  His  own  power  and 
by  His  own  word,  in  the  earth,  never 
more  to  be  destroyed  or  to  cease,  but 
to  continue  until  the  purposes  of  the 
Almighty  shall  be  accomplished,  every 
whit  that  has  been  spoken  of  by  the 
mouths  of  the  holy  prophets  since  the 
world  began. 

'  I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  the  truth. 
I  thank  God  every  day  of  my  life  for 
His  mercy  and  kindness,  and  loving 
care  and  protection  that  has  been  ex- 
tended to  all  His  people,  and  for  the 
many  manifestations  of  His  peculiar 
mercy  and  blessing  that  have  been  ex- 
tended unto  us  throughout  all  the 
length  and  breadth  of  the  land  and 
through  all  the  years  since  the  organ- 
ization of  the  Church,  on  the  6th  of 
April,  1830. 

The  Lord,  about  that  time  or 
soon  after,  decreed  a  decree  which 
He  said  His  people  shou'd  realizes 
That  they  should  begin  from  that  very 
hour  to  prevail  over  all  thsir  enemies, 
and,  inasmuch  as  they  continued  to 
be  faithful  in  keeping  His  laws  which 
He  had  given  unto  them,  it  was  de- 
creed that  tfiey  should  prevail  until 
all  enemies  were  subdued — not  subdued 
by  violence  or  the  spirit  of  contention 
or  of  warfare  but  subdued  by  the  pow- 
or  of  eternal  truth,  by  the  majesty  and 
power  of  Almighty  God — and  by  the 
increased  power  of  the  righteous  and 
of  the  upright  covenanted  people  of 
God  should  be  magnified  and  increased, 
until  the  world  shall  bow  and  acknow- 
ledge that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and 


that  there  is  a  people  preparing  for 
His  coming  in  power  and  glory  to  the 
earth  again. 

We  carry  to  the  world  the  olive 
branch  of  peace.  We  present  to  the 
world  the  law'  of  God,  the  word  of  the 
Lord,  the  Truth,  as  it  has  been  re- 
vealed in  the  latter  day  for  the  re- 
demption of  the  dead  and  for  the  sal- 
vation of  the  living.  We  bear  no  mal- 
ice or  evil  toward  the  children  of  men. 
The  spirit  of  forgiveness  pervades  the 
hearts  of  the  Saints  of  God,  and  they 
do  not  cherish  a  desire  or  feeling  of 
revenge  toward  their  enemies  or  those 
who  hurt  or  molest  them  or  seek  to 
make  them  afraid;  but,  on  the  con- 
trary, the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  has  pos- 
session of  their  spirits,  of  their  souls 
and  of  their  thoughts,  and  they  for- 
give all  men,  and  they  carry  no  mal- 
ice in  their  hearts  toward  any,  no 
matter  what  they  have  done.  They  say, 
in  their  hearts,  let  God  judge  between 
us  and  our  enemies,  and  as  for  us,  we 
forgive  them  and  we  bear  no  malice 
toward  any. 

I  sincerely  hope  that,  during  this 
conference,  which  will  necessarily  be 
brief,  or  at  least  will  last  but  three 
days,  with  the  exception,  possibly,  of 
some  of  our  Priesthood  meetings  that 
may  be  held  later — I  trust  that  this 
conference  will  be  one  signally  marked 
by  the  presence  of  God's  influence  and 
power,  and  that  it  will  be  one  in  which 
all  that  assemble  will  rejoice  and  be 
exceeding  glad,  in  which  their  hopes 
will  be  encouraged  and  strengthened 
their  faith  increased  and  their  power 
for  good  enlarged,  that  they  may  go 
hence  from  this  conference  re- 
joicing more  than  ever  in  the 
truth  of  the  Gospel,  and  more  and  more 
determined  to  tight  the  good  fight 
and  keep  the  faith  and  establish  righ- 
teousness in  the  earth;  that  it  may  be 
like  a  well  of  pure  and  living  water, 
ever  springing  up  unto  eternal  life. 

God  bless  the  people,  the  Saints  of 
the  Most  High,  wherever  they  may  be, 
whether  in  the  vales  of  these  moun- 
tains and  the  regularly  organized 
Stakes  of  Zion  or  in  the  missions  in 
the  earth,  in  our  own  land  and  abroad 
in  foreign  countries,  and  upon  the  isl- 
ands of  the  sea.    May  God's  blessing 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN. 


3 


be  poured  out  upon  those  that  yield 
obedience  to  the  truth  throughout  all 
the  world,  and  may  the  power  of  truth, 
the  power  of  testimony,  and  the  wit- 
ness of  the  Holy  Spirit,  rest  mightily 
upon  His  servants  who  are  sent  forth 
to  preach  the  Gospel  to  the  world. 

I  have  to  say  this  to  my  brethren 
and  sisters:  That  I  believe  conscien- 
tiously, from  all  that  I  know,  that  the 
day  never  has  been  when  Zion  was 
more  thoroughly  equipped,  more 
thoroughly  furnished  in  good  works, 
when  there  was  a  better  spirit  or  a 
more  united  feeling  existing  among  the 
people  of  God  than  exists  today.  i 
believe  that  the  people  of  the  Lord 
are  more  prosperous  today  than  ever 
they  have  been.  •  I  believe  they  are 
more  firmly  established  in  the  truth 
than  they  ever  have  been  before.  I  be- 
lieve, in  other  words,  that  we  are  con- 
tinually growing  and  increasing  m  the 
knowledge  of  God  and  in  good  works, 
and  in  faith,  power  and  determination 
to  carry  out  and  consummate  the  will 
and  purpose  of  God  in  the  earth. 

I  want  to  say  to  the  people  here 
that  there  never  has  been  a  time,  with- 
in my  knowedge  at  least,  or  within 
my  knowledge  of  the  history  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
S3ints,  when  the  Saints  paid  a  better 
tithing  than  they  did  during  the  year 
1901.  I  have  this  to  say  as  a  word  of 
encouragement  and  congratulation  to 
the  people  throughout  all  the  Stakes  of 
Zion.  Tou  have  done  better  than  you 
have  ever  done  before,  and  we  hope 
that  you  will  continue  to  do  better  in 
this  respect,  and  that  you  will  continue 
to  do  better  in  all  other  respects 
throughout  the  year  1902,  and  so  con- 
tinue on  and  on,  from  year  to  year, 
until  we  shall  be  perfect  in  the  sphere 
in  which  God  calls  us  to  act,  as  the 
Father  and  the  Son  are  perfect  in  their 
more  exalted  and  glorious  sphere  in 
Which  they  act. 

May  the  Lord  bless  Zion,  and  may 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  rest  mightily 
upon  His  servants  that  shall  address 
you  during  this  conference,  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  M'MURRIN. 

Necessity  for  experienced  Elders  in  the  mission- 
field — Resp  .nsibilities  of  the  Seventy — None 
should  shrink  them. 

It  is  rather  unexpected  to  me,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  called  upon 
this  morning  to  address  this  great  con- 
gregation; nevertheless,  I  esteem  it  a 
very  great  privilege  and  honor  to  have 
the  opportunity  of  standing  up  in  this 
general  conference  to  bear  my  testi- 
mony to  the  truth  of  the  glorious  work 
that  God  our  Father  has  established 
upon  the  earth  in  this  dispensation,  and 
I  sincerely  hope  that  the  few  moments 
I  occupy  I  may  be  directed  by  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  say  something 
that  will  be  of  some  advantage  to  those 
who  are  assembled  here.  I  believe  that 
the  Elders  of  the  Church  of  Jesus* 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  feel  the 
need  of  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord 
when  they  stand  up  to  address  the 
people,  and  that  without  that  inspira- 
tion their  words  are  very  weak,  indeed 
like  unto  sounding  brass  or  a  tinkling 
cymbal;  yet,  by  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord  and  the  presence  of  His  Holy 
Spirit,  men  who  may  be  looked  upon  as 
weak  are  ofttimes  led  to  say  things 
that  are  of  the  utmost  value.  I  hope 
that  this  Spirit  may  rest,  not  only  upon 
your  humble  servant  at  this  time,  but 
upon  all  the  servants  of  the  Lord  who 
shall  stand  up  during  this  conference  to 
teach  the  people  the  will  of  the  Lord; 
and  I  believe  that  we  have  it  in  our 
own  power,  to  a  very  great  degree,  to 
call  down  the  blessings  that  we  desire 
at  the  present  time.  We  have  assem- 
bled from  the  north  and  from  the  south, 
from  the  east  and  from  the  west,  that 
we  may  worship  the  Lord  our  God;  and 
if  we  have  come  together  with  the  de- 
sire in  our  hearts  to  be  blessed  of  our 
Father  in  heaven,  and  our  prayers  as- 
cend to  Him  that  He  will  be  mindful 
of  us,  we  have  a  right  to  hope,  from 
the  promises  He  has  made  to  His  peo- 
ple, that  He  will  hearken  to  our  pray- 
ers, and  that  He  will  pour  out  His 
blessings  upon  us  in  rich  abundance. 

I  have  rejoiced  exceedingly  in  the 
few  words  that  have  been  spoken  to 
us  by  Prest.  Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  I  be- 
lieve that  a  feeling  of  joy  has  permeat- 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ed  this  entire  congregation,  and  that 
we  feel,  as  has  been  expressed  by  the 
president,  blessed  of  the  Lord,  and  that 
there  is  a  spirit  of  unity  and  determina- 
tion to  keep  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord  resting  upon  the  people.  This  con- 
ference has  opened  in  an  exceedingly 
auspicious  manner.  I  do  not  suppose 
there  has  ever  been  a  conference  in 
the  history  of  the'  Church  when  a  larger 
body  of  the  people  was  gathered  to- 
gether at  the  opening  session  than 
there  is  today. 

My  mind  of  late,  brethren  and  sisters, 
has  been  led  out  a  little  in  relation 
to  the  work  that  is  being  performed 
by  the  Elders  of  the  Church  as  mis- 
sonaries  abroad,  and  I  feel  that  if  I  can 
have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  I  would 
like  to  offer  a  few  remarks  upon  this 
missionary  labor,  and  upon  the  class 
of  men  that  are  being  selected  from 
time  to  time  to  bear  the  message  of  the 
Gospel  to  the  people  of  the  world. 

I  rejoice  in  the  opportunities  that 
are  given  to  the  young  men  of  Israel  to 
go  forth,  clothed  with  the  authority  of 
the  Holy  Priesthood,  and  authorized 
to  cry  repentance  to  the  people,  to  teach 
the  children  of  men  the  wonderful  pur- 
poses of  the  Almighty,  and  to  expound 
to  them  the  doctrines  of  the  Gospel  as 
they  have  been  revealed  anew  in  these 
latter  times  through  the  great  Prophet, 
Joseph  Smith.  It  is  a  glorious  privil- 
ege that  the  young  men  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  enjoy,  to  go  forth  in  this 
manner,  to  call  the  attention  of  the  peo- 
ples of  the  world  to  the  purposes  of 
the  Lord.  In  the  missionary  field  they 
receive  an  experience  that  is  invalua- 
ble; and  we  rejoice,  as  fathers  and 
mothers  and  as  servants  and  hand- 
maidens of  the  Lord,  in  seeing  the 
return  of  young  men  from  the  mis- 
sionary field  who  are  filled  with  the 
inspiration  of  heaven,  and  who  have 
gained  valuable  testimonies  concerning 
the  work  of  the  Lord  while  they  have 
been  ministering  words  of  salvation  to 
the  people.  Many  young  men  go  out 
from  our  midst  who  have  never  had 
any  experience  outside  of  the  Church, 
and  who  have  never  been  brought 
in  contact  with  any  of  the  re- 
ligious denominations  of  the  world; 
yet  when  they  come  in  contact  with 
these  denominations  and  meet  profes- 


sors of  religion  who  have  been  spec- 
ially educated  to  teach  the  people  the 
dogmas  the  sects  believe  in,  it  in  no 
wise  lessens  the  faith  of  the  Utah-born 
boys.  In  fact,  coming  in  contact  with 
the  outside  world  and  with  the  relig- 
ious ideas  that  prevail  among  men 
seems  to  strengthen  their  faith,  and 
they  return  home  a  thousand  times 
firmer  in  their  knowledge  of  the  Gos- 
pel than  they  were  before  they  left 
their  homes  to  preach  to  the  people. 
Therefore,  I  do  not  wish  any  feeling  to 
arise  in  your  mind,  from  the  remarks 
I  desire  to  make,  that  I  am  opposed 
to  the  sending  forth  of  the  young  men 
tvho  are  going  from  day  to  day  to 
represent  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I 
look  back  twenty  years  to  the  time 
when  the  opportunity  was  given  to  me, 
as  a  bov  to  go  out  as  a  missionary, 
and  I  thank  God  with  all  the  strength 
of  my  soul  today  that  that  opportun- 
ity came  to  me  in  the  days  of  my  boy- 
hood. I  have  thanked  the  Lord  for 
twenty  years  that  I  was  sent  at  that 
time  upon  my  first  mission — taken,  as 
it  were,  as  a  brand  from  the  burn- 
ing, and  made  to  understand  the  bless- 
ings that  Almighty  God  had  showered 
upon  me  in  being  born  in  the  midst  of 
this  people,  and  in  having  good  and 
godly  parents,  who  made  strong  im- 
pressions upon  my  mind  favorable  to 
the  work  of  the  Lord  by.  their  upright 
lives  and  by  their  testimony  concern- 
ing the  truth  of  the  Gospel.  And  I 
look  forward  with  anticipations  of  joy 
to  having  sons  myself,  at'  no  d'stant 
day.  abroad  in  the  nations  lifting  up 
their  voices  in  proclamation  of  tJie 
same  truth  that  I  was  sent  to  pro- 
claim twenty  years  ago. 

Nevertheless,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, I  have  felt,  in  meeting  with  the 
Council  of  the  Seventy  and  with  the 
Apostles  to  set  apart  missionaries,  that 
there  is  a  lack  of  men  of  experience 
going  abroad  to  represent  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  I  believe  that  all  the  mis- 
sions would  be  greatly  strength  n  d  if, 
when  word  is  sent  out  from  the  Pres- 
idency of  the  Church  that  a  number  of 
missionaries  are  required,  the  Bifhops 
and  Stake  Presidency,  in  looking  over 
the  ground,  would  turn  their  attention 
occasionally  to  men  of  experience.  It 
is  no  uncommon  thing  to  find  a  com- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN. 


5 


pany  of  young  men  going  out  as  mis- 
sionaries who  have  never  had  any  ex- 
perience in  traveling — perhaps  never 
been  outside  of  the  state  in  which 
they  were  born — and  not  one  among 
them  of  experience  who  can  be  placed 
in  charere,  to  watch  over  them,  and  to 
give  them  counsel  as  they  journey  to 
their  fields  of  labor.  And  in  the  mis- 
sions, I  know  from  my  own  experience 
in  the  European  mission  (and  I  sup- 
pose this  condition  prevails  in  other 
missions)  that  it  is  sometimes  a  dif- 
ficult matter  to  find  a  man  to  preside 
over  a  conference  who  has  had  exper- 
ience. I  have  the  feeling  that  if  we 
would  pay  a  little  more  attention  to 
the  manner  given  of  the  Lord  for  the 
calling  of  missionaries  there  would  be 
more  men  of  experience  selected  to  per- 
form this  labor.  The  Lord  has  said, 
in  the  revelation  concerning  Priest- 
hood, section  107  of  the  Book  of  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants. 

"It  is  the  duty  of  the  traveling  High 
Council  to  call  upon  the  Seventy,  when 
they  need  assistance,  to  fill  the  several 
calls  for  preaching  and  administering 
the  Gospel,  instead  of  any  others." 

If,  when  a  call  goes  from  the  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church  for  missionaries, 
the  Presidents  of  Stakes  and  Bishops 
would  keep  in  mind  this  communica- 
tion from  our  Father  in  heaven,  I  be- 
lieve there  would  be  more  Seventies 
gathered  in  from  the  large  number  of 
quorums  that  exist  than  are  now  be- 
ing called  upon  missions.  I  believe  that 
God  Almighty  has  placed  the  respon- 
sibility of  preaching  this  Gospel  upon 
the  shoulders  of  the  Seventy;  that  it  is 
their  peculiar  calling;  that  the  Lord 
expects  men  who  have  received  this 
appointment  to  be  in  preparation  for 
the  accomplishment  of  the  labor  that 
specially  belongs  to  them;  and  I  do  not 
think  that  the  Presidents  of  Stakes 
and  Bishops,  when  required  to  furnish 
missionaries,  should  look  to  the  young 
men  only,  but  they  should  look  into 
the  quorums  of  Seventy  and  be  anx- 
ious to  fill  the  calls  made  upon 
them  from  time  to  time  from  the  ranks 
of  the  Seventy  to  a  greater  extent  than 
they  are  now  being  filled. 

In  making  these  remarks  I  do  not 
have  any  feeling  to  shift  any  responsi- 


bility from  my  own  shoulders  or  from 
the  shoulders  of  my  brethren  with 
whom  I  am  associated  in  the  Council  of 
the  Seventy,  on  to  the  shoulders  of 
other  men.  We  are  anxious  in  relation 
to  this  matter.  "We  are  traveling 
among  the  quorums  of  Seventy  to  a 
considerable  extent,  and  we  are  teach- 
ing our  brethren  all  the  time  that  God 
has  placed  this  responsibility  upon 
them,  and  that  they  should  try  to  put 
their  affairs  in  shape  that  they  may  be 
prepared  to  respond.  I  realize  that  the 
great  majority  of  the  Seventies  are 
men  of  families,  who  cannot  lay  down 
their  affairs,  quite  so  readily  as  the 
young  men  who  are  unmarried.  It  is 
much  easier  for  the  young  men  to  go 
upon  missions  than  it  is  for  men  of 
families.  Sometimes  excuses  are  offered, 
and  men  say  they  cannot  go  without 
making  sacrifices.  I  feel  to  say  to  the 
Seventies  that  if  they  put  off  going  up- 
on missions  until  they  can  go  without 
making  sacrifices,  the  time  will  never 
come  when  they  will  be  prepared  to  re- 
spond to'  missionary  calls.  Men  who 
have  received  the  Priesthood  of  a  Sev- 
enty should  be  anxious  to  be  in  a  con- 
dition to  discharge  the  duty  that  God 
requires  of  them.  They  should  read 
that  which  the  Lord  has  given  by  revel- 
ation through  His  Prophet  concerning 
the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  them. 
The  Lord  says: 

/ 

''The  Seventy  are  also  called  to 
preach  the  Gospel,  and  to  be  especial 
witnesses  unto  the  Gentiles  and  in  all 
the  world.  Thus  differing  from  other 
officers  of  the  Church  in  the  duties  of 
their  calling." 

The  Lord  also  says,  in  this  same 
revelation : 

"The  Seventy  are  to  act  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord,  under  the  direction  of  the 
Twelve  or  the  traveling  High  Council, 
in  building  up  the  Church  and  regulat- 
ing all  the  affairs'  of  the  same  in  all 
nations — first  unto  the  Gentiles  and 
then  unto  the  Jews." 

I  feel  in  my  whole  being  that  men 
who  are  Seventies  should  have  a  desire 
in  their  hearts  to  accomplish  this  labor 
which  God  has  designated  as  belonging 
to  them.  There  should  be  no  disposi- 
tion in  the  heart  of  any  Seventy  to  roll 
off  the  responsibility  of  preaching  the 
Gospel  on  to  the  shoulders  of  the  Dea- 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


cons,  or  the  Priests,  or  any  others;  but 
they  should  feel,  "I  am  ready;  God 
has  called  me  to  be  a  witness  among 
the  nations  of  the  earth,  and  I  desire 
to  bear  my  fuli  share  of  this  responsi- 
bility, that  I  may  enjoy  a  fulness  of  the 
promised  blessing.  The  Lord  has 
clothed  me  with  the  authority;  He  re- 
quirts  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  at 
my  hands,  and  I  propose  to  put  myself 
in  a  condition  to  be  ready  for  these 
appointments."  I  believe  that  is  the 
spirit  that  should  actuate  the  brethren 
who  have  been  called  to  be  Seventies. 
I  desire  to  ask  the  Bishops  and  the 
presidents  of  stakes  to  look  among  the 
quorums  of  the  Seventy,  and  assist  the 
Council  of  the  Seventy  in  procuring  mis- 
sionaries from  them.  I  believe  that 
the  doing  of  this  will  greatly  strength- 
en the  hands  of  the  mission  presidents, 
and  be  a  source  of  strength  to  all  the 
missions  in  the  world.  There  are  thou- 
sands of  men  and  women  in  the  nations 
who  have  received  the  principles  of  the 
everlasting  Gospel,  who  understand  the 
first  principles  of  the  Gospel,  and  who 
are  well  grounded  in  the  faith.  They 
need  some  men  of  experience  in  their 
midst,  whc  can  counsel  them,  and  who 
can  feed  them  better  ofttimes  than  a 
young  and  inexperienced  missionary 
can.  My  experience  leads  me  to  say 
that  there  are  a  great  many  men 
abroad  who  are  as  well  or  better  quali- 
fied to  preach  the  Gospel  than  some 
of  the  missionaries  who  are  sent  into 
their  midst 

As  I  have  said,  I  rejoice  to  see  the 
young  men  being  sent  forth.  I  want  my 
own  sons  tr  go.  I  believe  every  fath- 
er and  mother,  who  has  a  testimony 
of  the  truth  of  the  ever- 
lasting. Gospel  has  the  same 
desire  in  relation  to  their  sons.  But  I 
would  feel  to  rejoice  in  my  heart  in 
the  going  of  my  sons,  if  I  knew  that 
there  were  with  them  men  of  experi- 
ence and  understanding,  men  thorough- 
ly established  in  the  Gospel,  and 
men  who  could  take  them  by  the 
hand  and  lead  them  and  act  to  them 
in  the  place  of  a  father.  I  would  feel 
that  they  were  in  safer  hands  in  the 
company  of  such  men  than  if  they  were 
with  the  young  men  altogether.  I 
therefore  recommend  to  the  brethren 
not  to  overlook  the  quorums    of  the 


Seventy,  but  to  furnish  more  mission- 
aries from  that  band  of  men  who  have 
been  designated  of  the  Lord  as  being 
especially  responsible  for  the  preaching 
of  His  word. 

I  bear  my  testimony,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  to  the  truth  of  the  work  in 
which  we  are  engaged.  I  know  it  to  be 
of  God.  I  prize  the  testimony  that  the 
Lord  has  given  me  concerning  this  work 
above  all  else  in  the  world.  I  pray  with 
all  my  heart  that  God  will  help  me  to 
retain  that  testimony,  and  to  labor  in 
the  midst  of  the  people,  whether  it  be 
at  home  or  abroad,  as  I  may  be  directed 
by  those  who  preside  over  me,  so  that 
I  may  fill  up  the  measure  of  my  days  in 
the  way  that  He  desires.  I  pray  that 
this  blessing  may  be  upon  all  the  peo- 
ple, that  we  may  be  true  to  God,  true  to 
each  other,  true  to  the  covenants  that 
we  have  made  with  our  Father  in  hea- 
ven in  holy  places,  and  that  the  accom- 
plishment of  the  purposes  of  the  Al- ' 
mighty  and  the  building  up  of  His 
kingdom  may  be  the  desire  of  our 
hearts;  for  this  will  bring  to  us  eter- 
nal life  in  the  presence  of  our  Father, 
the  reward  that  God  has  promised  to 
the  faithful;  and  the  gaining  of  this 
blessing  should  be  the  very  strongest 
desire  of  which  we  are,  or  can  be  pos- 
sessed. God  bless  us  and  help  us  to  be' 
true  and  faithful,  help  us  to  honor  and 
respect  the  authority  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood,  help  us  to  hold  up  the  hands 
of  the  men  of  God  who  preside  over  us 
and  to  hearken  to  their  counsels,  that 
the  purposes  of  the  Almighty  may  be 
fully  accomplished  in  the  earth,  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  REYNOLDS. 

The  growth  of  Zion — Development    of  Sunday 
School  work. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  realizing 
that  I  should  have  to  speak  next  for  a 
few  moments,  I  have  been  trembling 
upon  my  seat,  but  asking  myself  the 
question,  Why  should  I  fear  to  stand 
up  before  my  brethren  and  sisters?  Do 
I  not  know  that  this  is  the  Gospel  of 
our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ?  Yes, 
most  certainly.  Do  I  not  hold  a  portion 
of  the  Holy  Priesthood?  Assuredly  I 
do.  Have  I  not  for  many  years  been  a 
member  of  the  Church,  endeavoring  to 
understand  the  principles  of  eternal  life 


ELDER  GEORGE  REYNOLDS. 


7 


and  to  obtain  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel?  I 
answer,  Yes.  Why,  therefore,  should  I, 
or  why  should  anyone  who  is  clothed 
with  the  power  of  the  Priesthood,  who 
loves  God,  and  who  is  seeking  to  serve 
Him,  fear  to  address  a  congregation  of 
his  brethren  and  sisters?  There  is 
something,  however,  in  large  masses  of 
people  which  has  an  influence  that 
causes  us  all  to  feel  our  own  littleness, 
our  own  insignificance  compared  with 
the  body  of  the  Church. 

I  feel  like  those  who  have  preceded 
me,  that  we  can  truthfully  say  and 
truthfully  sing,  "Zion  is  growing."  The 
kingdom  of  God  is  increasing  in  power 
upon  the  earth.  "We  see  it  in  our  growth 
numerically;  we  see  it  in  the  increase 
of  our  settlements,  in  the  area  of  coun- 
try that  we  are  covering,  in  the  exten- 
sion of  the  stakes  of  Zion,  and  in  the 
growth  of  our  Church  schools.  We  can 
see  it  also  in  the  greater  obedience  of 
the  people  to  the  law  of  tithing  and  to 
other  laws  that  God  has  revealed.  All 
these  things  tell  us  that  the  Lord  is 
with  His  people,  and  that  He  will  fully 
accomplish  all  that  he  has  declared; 
for  as  we  know,  He  is  abundantly  able 
to  take  care  of  His  people  and  of  His 
work. 

With  regard  to  what  Elder  Joseph  W. 
McMurrin  has  been  saying,  I  also  know 
that  there  is  a  dearth  of  experienced 
men  in  the  foreign  ministry  of  the 
Church.  I  know  it  because  of  the  re- 
quisitions that  so  often  pass  through 
my  hands  from  the  presidents  of  mis- 
sions, asking  for  more  experienced  men 
to  be  sent  to  them.  I  appreciate  the 
diligence  and  zeal,  the  singleness  of 
heart  and  purpose  of  our  young  men. 
Still,  the  power  of  the  preaching  of  the 
Gospel  would  be  manifestly  increased 
if  many  of  them  had  more  experience, 
or,  to  put  it  in  another  form,  if  there 
was  a  greater  percentage  of  experienced 
men  associated  with  them  in  proclaim- 
ing the  glorious  principles  of  the  ever- 
lasting Gospel.  We  know  that  the  Lord 
is  opening  other  gates  in  the  midst  of 
the  nations,  that  he  is  prospering  His 
work,  that  many  are  listening  to  the 
truth  and  that  the  Gospel  is  now  being 
preached  in  numbers  of  places,  cities, 
towns  and  regions  where  one  or  two 
years  ago  nothing  was  known  concern- 


ing it.  The  demand  from  abroad  is  that 
more  Elders  be  sent.  It  is  very  seldom 
—hardly  ever  indeed— that  any  presi- 
dent of  a  mission  says  he  has  too  many 
Elders  in  the  field.  The  constant  cry  is 
for  more  men,  because  there  are  more 
openings.  But  as  far  as  my  experience 
has  gone,  there  appears  to  be  no  meth- 
od by  which  we  can  guage  the  condition 
of  any  particular  portion  of  the  Lord's 
work  by  the  increase  of  the  Elders  sent 
there,  because  there  are  times  of  sow- 
ing and  times  of  reaping  in  the  mission- 
ary fields,  as  there  are  in  the  field  of 
the  agriculturist;  but,  as  a  rule,  the 
more  Elders  the  more  baptism's,  though 
the  percentage  is  not  always  higher, 
per  capita  by  reason  of  an  increase  of 
the  number  of  Elders  in  the  field. 

I  rejoice  with  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  in  these  things,  because  I  love 
the  cause  of  God.  I  desire  to  see  it 
prosper,  and  I  know  I  will. 

There  is  another  field  of  labor  in 
which  I  am  engaged  that,  I  am  thank- 
ful to  know,  is  growing  and  doing  its 
part — that  is,  the  Sunday  school  por- 
tion of  the  work  of  the  Lord.  In  con- 
junction with  this  is  the  work  done  by 
other  auxiliary  organizations  connected 
with  the  Church.  We  find,  especially 
abroad,  that  additional  importance  and 
fresh  strength  has  been  given  to  the 
Sunday  school  work.  In  some  places 
the  first  foothold  obtained  in  the 
preaching  of  the  Gospel  has  been  by  the 
organization  of  Sunday  schools  in  the 
midst  of  non-members  of  the  Church, 
and  we  know  of  schools  that  are  flour- 
ishing and  numerically  strong  where 
scarcely  one-fifth  of  those  who  attend 
are  members  of  the  Church  or  children 
of  members  of  the  Church.  We  can 
make  a  favorable  report  in  this  direc- 
tion with  regard  to  the  growth  of  the 
work  of  the  Lord  and  the  increase  of 
knowledge  of  principle  amongst  our 
young  people. 

May  God  bless  us,  strengthen  us,  and 
enable  us  to  do  His  will  completely, 
whatsoever  our  calling  or  our  duties 
may  be,  that  we  may  fulfill  the  object 
of  our  creation,  and  do  all  for  God's 
cause  that  He  requires  at  our  hands, 
is  my  prayer,  through  Jesus  our  Re- 
deemer. Amen. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


8 

ELDER  C.  D.  FJELSTED. 

It  was  very  gratifying  to  listen  to  the 
remarks  of  President  Smith  this  morn- 
ing, that  the  work  of  God  is  growing, 
both  at  home  and  abvoad.  We  feel 
that  it  is  quite  an  encouragement  to 
us  to  do  the  will  of  our  Father.  "We 
certainly  h&ve  a  testimony  that  this  is 
the  work  of  God.  We  have  not  been 
left  to  guess  at  it,  or  to  be  in  doubt 
about  it,  but  the  Lord  has  given  us  a 
testimony,  right  from  the  beginning, 
that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord.  Op- 
position to  it  will  never  stop  it;  for  it 
has  come  here  to  stay.  The  kingdom 
of  God  will  stay  here,  His  work  will 
progress,  and  the  blessings  of  God  will 
rest  upon  His  people.  We  will  prosper 
in  everything  that  is  good,  if  we  will 
do  the  will  of  our  Heavenly  Father  con- 
tinually. We  are  thankful  that  we 
have  a  living  Priesthood  among  us— 
a  genuine  Priesthood,  not  a  bogus 
Priesthood;  men  that  are  inspired  of 
God  to  teach  us  the  way  of  life  and 
salvation.  When  we  meet  together  it 
is  the  duty  of  every  Latter-day  Saint 
to  send  up  a  prayer  in  silence  to  our 
Heavenly  Father  that  He  will  inspire 
His  servants,  that  they  may  be  fed 
with  the  bread  of  eternal  life  and  have 
the  word  of  God,  that  we  may  be  bless- 
ed and  renew  our  determination  to 
stand  faithfully  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 
For  my  part,  I  have  enjoyed  a  great 
deal  of  the  Spirit  of  God  when  I  have 
been  out  preaching  the  Gospel  in  tha 
world;  and  I  can  testify  to  this  people 
that  yeur  sons  who  are  sent  out  to 
preach  the  Gospel  are  doing  well.  They 
a.r*.  intelligent,  and  they  are  working 
hard,  and  the  work  of  the  Lord  is  pro- 
gressing. Those  that  oppose  it  never 
have  tb-  advantage  of  the  servants  of 
God.  The  servants  of  God  are  assisted 
by  the  Spirit  of  God,  because  this  is 
His  work,  and  He  sustains  them. 

T  feel  tc  say,  the  Lord  bless  Israel. 
The  Lord  bless  all  His  servants.  May 
wo  rally  around  them,  listen  to  their 
counsels,  and  do  the  will  of  our  Father 
as  it  is  delivered  to  us  through  His 
servants  from  time  to  time,  is  my 
prayer  for  Christ's  sake.  Amen. 


ELDER  J.  G.  KIMBALL. 

Special  work  of  the  Seventy — More  home  mission- 
ary work  needed — Dangers  to  which  our  young 
people  are  exposed. 

I  feel,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
life  is  too  short  and  our  time  is  too 
brief  to  be  spent  in  making  apologies 
or  excuses,  or  for  expressing  myself 
as  being  surprised.  I  think  we  ought 
to  educate  ourselves  not  to  be  surprised 
at  almost  anything  happening  that  per- 
tains to  our  calling  in  the  only  holy 
Melchisedek  Priesthood,  for  we  never 
know  where  lightning  will  strike  We 
are  not  acquainted  with  those  tuat 
will  be  released,  or  with  those  that 
will  be  sent  to  the  nations  of  the 
earth;  but  we  believe  that  it  comes 
from  God.  I  do  know  and  testify  that 
when  a  man  is  appointed  to  fill  a  place, 
notwithstanding  the  fact  that  he  may 
not  have  all  the  qualifications,  nor  be 
endowed  so  richly  as  some  other  man 
may  be,  and  the  people  may  be  sur- 
prised at  the  appointment,  yet  the  Lord 
is  able  to  qualify  him.  It  it>  marvel- 
ous in  my  sight  how  m«n  that  are 
called  by  divine  authority  increase  in 
wisdom  and  knowledge,  how  they  prog- 
ress, and  how  well  they  fill  'heir  posi- 
tions when  they  have  the  spirit  of  their 
office  and  calling.  Now,  brethren,  I 
know  what  my  Priesthood  and  calling 
is.  I  am  young  in  experience,  but  I 
know  that  I  am  a  special  witness  of 
the  Lord  to  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
under  the  direction  of  the  traveling 
High  Council;  if  I  fall  short  in  some 
directions,  if  I  exhibit  weaknesses,  .1 
ask  the  Lord  to  cause  that  my  integ- 
rity and  my  loyalty  and  patriotism  to 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  shall  never 
wane.  I  do  not  want  to  be  afraid  of 
man.  I  want  to  open  my  mouth  and 
use  the  talent  which  the  Doid  has  given 
me.  What  I  say  may  not  be  in  har- 
mony with  some  men.  Those  tfiit  it  is 
;n  harmony  with,  there  being  a  con- 
geniality and  an  affinity  between  us, 
I  may  be  able  to  reach  their  hearts. 

It  is  difficult  for  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy  to  talk  of  anything  else  but 
missionary  work,  because  that  is  our 
special  calling.  I  '"esirs  tj  call  tue 
attention  of  the  Presidents  of  Stakes 


ELDER  JONATHAN  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 


9 


and  the  Bishops  of  wards  to  the  fact 
that  50  letters  were  sent  out  yesterday, 
under  the  direction  oz  die  First  Coun- 
cil of  the  Seventy,  asking  that  the  first 
50  quorums  in  the  Church  each  furnish 
two  Seventies  to  fill  missions.  I  think 
we  were  explicit  enough  in  teiling  them 
the  kind  of  missionaries  we  wanted, 
and  I  hope  they  have  them.  While  we 
acknowledge  that  you  cannot  grind 
men  over,  neither  can  you  li^  their 
heads,  we  have  asked  for  men  of  a 
certain  kind.  There  are  se.-en  presi- 
dents to  every  quorum  of  Seventy  in  the 
Church,  and  there  are  142  quorums, 
numbering  9,500  Seventies;  and  if  they 
canot  find  284  missionaries  out  of  the 
142  quorums,  then  I  suggest  that  they 
sell  out  and  let  someone  eLe  "tin  the 
business.  We  desire  them  to  be  care- 
ful about  their  morals,  about  their 
■spiritual,  their  physical,  and  financial 
condition.  I  wish  we  could  strike  out 
that  word  "financial;"  but  we  cannot; 
for  if  Seventies  are  in  debt,  in  bonuage, 
they  will  have  to  stay  noii;r>  and  pay 
their  debts.  That  is  one  of  the  greatest 
difficulties  we  have  to  meet  in  calling 
for  missionaries. 

Our  Brother  McMurrin  hj*s  talked  to 
you  about  the  foreign  missionary  work, 
and  I  desire  to  corroborate  what  has 
been  said.  There  is  not  an  Elder  that 
has  ever  presided  o/er  a  mission  who 
would  not  prefer  a  young  man  to  a 
man  who  is  old;  but  I  want  tc  tell  you 
that  two  young  boys  can  do  a  lot  of 
mischief  in  a  short  time,  l'iiey  intend 
to  do  right  ,and  they  try  to  do  right, 
and  the  Lord  blesses  these  young  men 
■most  wonderfully;  but  where  you  put 
two  of  them  together,  they  are  not  ac- 
quainted with  the  customs  of  the  peo- 
ple, they  are  not  experienced,  and  it 
takes  a  great  deal  of  wisdom  and  cour- 
age to  go  among  the  children  of  men 
and  have  the  finger  of  scorn  pointed 
at  you  and  be  as  unpopular  as  a  "Mor- 
mon" Elder  is.  Educated  tS  we  Pie, 
and  breathing  this  mountain  air  for  20 
years,  it  takes  a  little  training  before 
you  can  turn  the  other  cheek  and 
treat  those  kipdry  who  spitefully  use 
you.  It  takes  a  little  education 
to  learn  how  precious  are  the  souls 
of  the  children  of  men  in  Hie  sight 
of  God.  So  we  need  some  rider  men 
■to  put  their  hands    on    us  younger 


ooys  and  hold  us  down.  We  are  a  good 
deal  like  Peter.  I  was  that  way.  I 
would  have  cut  more  than  one  of  their 
ears  off,  if  there  had  been  someone 
to  stick  them  on  again.  That  is  the 
spirit  of  young  men  at  first;  but  after 
awhile  they  moderate.  You  will  be 
surprised  how  I  will  moderate  in  the 
next  ten  years;  I  will  be  as  mild  as  a 
summer's  morn,  because  1  will  com- 
mence then  to  look  for  death.  But  I 
expect  to  live  a  number  of  years  yet, 
and  I  hope  the  fire  won't  entirely  burn 
out  of  me.  I  had  one  of  the  Apostles 
tell  me,  "Brother  Kimball,  if  you  don't 
quit  making  so  much  noise,  you  will 
burn  out."  "Well,"  said  I,  "I  want  to 
burn  out,  and  give  room  for  somebody 
else,  as  I  believe  some  men  live  too 
long." 

I  desire  to  call  your  attention  to  a 
revelation,  and  I  have  tried  to  under- 
stand the  part  which  I  shall  read: 

"Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is 
great  in  the  sight  of  God; 

"For,Behold,  the  Lord  your  Redeemer 
suffered  death  in  the  flesh;'  wherefore 
He  suffered  the  pain  of  all  men,  that 
all  men  might  repent  and  come  unto 
Him. 

"And  He  hath  risen  again  from  the 
dead,  that  He  might  bring  all  men  un- 
to Him,  on  conditions  of  repentance; 

"And  how  great  is  his  joy  in  the  soul 
that  repenteth. 

"Wherefore  you  are  called  to  cry  re- 
pentance unto  this  people; 

"And  if  it  be  so  that  you  should  labor 
all  your  days  in  crying  repentance  un- 
to this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one 
soul  unto  me,  how  great  shall  be  your 
joy  with  Him  in  the  kingdom  of  my 
Father? 

"And  now,  if  your  joy  will  be  great 
with  one  soul  that  you  have  brought 
unto  me  into  the  kingdom  of  my  Fa- 
ther, how  great  will  be  your  joy  if  you 
should  bring  many  souls  unto  me? 

"Behold  you  have  My  Gospel  before 
you,  and  my  rock,  and  my  salvation!" 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel 
to  testify.  I  believe  fervently,  after 
giving  it  a  moment's  consideration,  the 
testimony  that  was  borne  by  President 
Smith  regarding  the  onward  progress  of 
this  great  work.  I  believe  that  it  has 
been  established  upon  the  earth,  never 
to  be  thrown  down,  nor  given  to  another 
people.  I  believe  with  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  who  have  a  testimony,  that 
your  feet  are  planted  upon  the  rock  of 
salvation,  and  that  you  know  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ.    I  believe  that  you  will 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  our  Father. 
I  believe  that  a  greater  part  of  you 
will  be  true,  will  be  steadfast,  will  be 
firm,  immoveable  and  unshaken.  Tou 
are  not  dazzled  nor  bewildered  by  these 
allurements  that  are  finding  their  way 
among  this  people.   You  have  got  past 
that.    You    no  longer    have    on  your 
shoulders  young  heads;  you  no  longer 
care  for  society,  worldly  society;  you 
no  longer  hunger  after  the  things  of  the 
world.    You  have  been  able  to  stamp 
under  your  feet  these  appetites  and 
these  weaknesses  that  young  men  have 
not  yet  overcome.  When  you  came  into 
the  world  men  were  not  so  bewildered 
with  the  things  of  the  world.  These 
things  have  come  with  luxury  and  rich- 
es, and  you,  as  has  been  stated,  are 
becoming  rich.    I  declare  to  you  that 
we,  the  sons  and  daughters  of  those  old 
pioneers,  are  becoming  effeminate,  and 
we  no  longer  believe  that  we  can  do  the 
things  our  father  did.    It  would  be  al- 
most a  crime  to  ask  me  to  do  the  things 
my  father  did.    I  do  not  think  I  would 
do  them,  though    I  might    if  I  were 
called  upon  to  do  so.  Why,  to  preach  the 
Gospel  without  purse  or  scrip,  by  some 
it  is  believed  it  cannot  be  done,  even 
in  countries  where  custom  will  permit 
of  it.    We  are  being  impoverished  in 
order  to  send  our  sons  upon  missions; 
and  if  you  send  some  of  these  married 
men,  who  have  kept  the  first  command- 
ments of  God,  which  is  to  multiply  and 
replenish  the  earth— well,  the  Bishops 
do  not  want  them  to  go,  because  it 
means  the  support  of  a  wife  and  per- 
haps thirteen  children,  if  it  is  in  a  good 
healthy  country.    I  do  not  blame  the 
Bishops,  because  it  is  a  great  responsi- 
bility; and  there  are  mighty  few  men 
in  the  country,  and  less  in  the  cities, 
that  have  money  in  the  bank.    I  have 
interviewed  some  of  the  Seventies  of 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  I  have  seen  thirty 
men  in  one  evening,  every  one  of  whom 
said,  in  substance,  "If  I  go  on  a  mis- 
sion, I  lose  my  position,  there  is  no  in- 
come, and  my  family    are  helpless." 
These  things  have  to  be  met,  and  I  rea- 
lize it.    I  think  there  is  a  wonderful 
missionary    work  to    be    done.  They 
have  over  1,300  missionaries  in  the  world 
and  among  them  some    very  bright 
young  men,  with  great  faith,  and  they 
will  do  a  great  work,  and  will  speak  the 


languages  of  the  earth  by  the  inspira- 
tion of  God. 

Now,  after  having  referred  to  you 
older  brethren,  how  you  are  fortified 
and  fastened,  how  faithful  you  are  to 
keep  the  comandments  of  the  Lord  and 
pay  you?-  tithing,  what  about  your  sons 
and  daughters?    Are  they  converted? 
Are  they  fastened?    Can  you  handle 
them?    Are  there  any  of  you  Presi- 
dents; of  Stakes  and  Bishops  that  feel 
about  to  falter  and  say  that  they  are 
getting  beyond  your  reach?    We  are 
doing  a  great  missionary  work  at  home. 
In  every  stake  of  Zion  home  mission- 
aries are  sent  out  among  the  people 
to  preach,  and  we  preach,     and  we 
preach,  and  we  preach  most  eloquent- 
ly.    But    these    boys    are    not  there. 
Possibly  not  twenty  per  cent  of  them 
are  £t  your  meetings  when  the  home 
missionaries  talk.   Of  course,  there  are 
some  exceptions.    Now,  what  are  you 
doing  about  them?    We  preach  day- 
times, and  I  believe  ardently  that  we 
sleep  too  much  nights.     I  remember 
Brother  Lyman  saying,  'Young  man, 
how  old  are  you?"    "I  am  over  forty." 
He  said,  "I  thought  so,  because  you 
commence  to  hunt  for  an  easy  chai;- 
even  now."    At  forty  we  commence  to 
hunt  for  an  easy  chair;  and  so  when 
night  approaches,  it  seems  that  we  par- 
ents all  go  to  bed,  that  we  may  rest. 
I  rather  believe  the  idea  that  if  the 
president?  of  Ptaves  and  Bishops  of 
wards  would  appoint  missionaries  to 
walk  the  streets  at  night,  there  would 
be  a  marvelous  work  done  in  Zion.  The 
devil  does  not  do  his  dirty  work  in 
the  daytime,  when  the  sun  shines;  but 
he  is  getting  so  he  does. some  here  un- 
der the  blazing  electric  light.    Are  we 
going  to  watch  our  children?  I  remem- 
ber being  in  a  far-off  settlement  not 
long  ago,  where  they  see  few  if  any 
of  the  leading  brethren,  and  yet  they 
number  over  twelve  hundred.  They 
have  a  great  many  young  people,  and 
when  I  retired  to  my  bed  after  the 
meeting  I  was  kept  awake  all  night 
long  by  the  boys  and  girls  running  the 
streets  of  that  settlement.   I  got  up  to- 
wards morning,  looked  at  mv  watch, 
and  it  was  then  4  a.  m.,  and  they  were 
still  roaming  the  streets.   While  it  may 
have  been  harmless  and  they  may  have 
been  pure  in  their  intentions,  I  tell  you 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 


11 


in  the  name  of  Israel's  God  it  is  one 
of  the  criminal  things  that  are  going 
on  in  this  land.  The  devil  is  breath- 
ing In  the  hearts  of  our  young  people, 
and  the  very  air  is  stagnated  in  some 
of  our  larger  cities  with  the  spirit  of 
immorality,  and  no  greater  sin  can  find 
its  way  in  the  hearts  of  our  young  peo- 
ple. I  tell  you,  it  is  your  duty  and  it 
is  my  duty  to  go  out  as  missionaries; 
not  to  preach  these  things  from  the 
pulpit,  not  to  talk-  to  our  sons  and 
daughters  publicly,  but  privately,  and 
"  point  out  to  them  in  a  proper  way, 
the  great  and  abominable  evil  of  se- 
cret sin.  Some  of  you  in  your  far-off 
districts  are  not  burdened  with  what 
we  call  civilization  and  the  things  of 
tho  world;  but  you  are  menaced,  and 
the  greatest  danger  that  menaces  you 
today  is  immorality,  and  secret  sin. 
You  know  how  we  guard  our  mission- 
aries. The  Elders  yesterday  pled  with 
a  number  of  missionaries  till  tears 
came  to  my  eyes.  Oh,  brethren,  avoid 
wine  and  women  as  you  would  the  gates 
of  hell.  Don't  allow  any  woman  to  take 
your  honor.  Don't  allow  any  woman 
to  take  your  arm.  Keep  them  at  arm's 
length;  and  as  you  expect  to  honor- 
ably fulfill  your  mission  and  have  the 
Spirit  of  God  burning  in  your  hearts, 
see  to  it  that  there  are  no  courtships, 
that  there  are  no  arrangements  made 
of  any  kind  to  -enter  into  matrimony; 
but  come  home  clean  and  pure  and 
sweet  before  the  Lord."  As  one  mis- 
sionary said,  when  he  returned  home 
from  his  first  mission,  he  was  about 
to  step  over  his  mother's  threshold 
and  his  mother  said,  "Hold  on,  my 
son,  have  you  come  back  to  me  as 
pure  and  as  good  as  when  you  left?" 
He  was  able  to  say,  "Mother,  I  am 
pure,  1  am  clean  and  sweet  before  the 
.Lord;"  and  she  threw  her  arms  open 
and  took  her  son  in  her  embrace. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  are  we  going  to 
fortify  the  youth  of  Israel  and  the 
daughters  of  Zion,  that  they  can  with- 
stand these  men  who  seem  to  think  it 
is  their  special  mission  and  that  they 
are  justified  in  coming  among  our  peo- 
ple and  ruining  our  daughters  and 
leading  away  our  young  men?  God 
bless  you.  Amen. 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 

Every  gift  and  endowment  brings  responsibility — 
The  use  and  abuse  of  wealth. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  trust  that 
I  may  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
while  I  shall  stand  before  you  this 
morning.  I  feel  to  rejoice  in  the  privil- 
ege that  I  have  in  bearing  my  testi- 
mony before  so  large  a  congregation, 
t  wish  to  endorse  with  all  my  heart  the- 
remarks  that  have  been  made  by  my 
Drethren  who  have  preceded  me.  1  re- 
joice in  the  progress  that  has  been 
made  in  the  work  of  the  Lord,  in  the 
growth  of  Zion,  and  in  the  extending 
of  her  borders.  I  rejoice  in  the  ad- 
vancement that  is  being  made  oy  the 
people  of  God. 

While  the  brethren  were  speaking 
this  morning  upon  the  responsibility 
of  the  Seventies  in  being  the  special 
witnesses  of  our  Lord  in  the  nations 
of  the  earth,  I  thought  what  a  great 
thing  it  would  be  if  ail  the  people,  und. 
particularly  all  those  who  'hold  the 
Priesthood,  would  only  realize  the  re- 
sponsibility that  rests  upon  them  as 
individuals,  and  if  each  man  would 
feel  that  he,  for  one,  was  determined 
to  discharge  himself  of  that  responsi- 
bility. When  a  man  is  ordained  to  the 
Priesthood,  it  matters  not  to  what  of- 
fice, with  that  ordination  comes  a 
responsibility;  and  it  were  better  for 
him  that  he  never  had  received  that 
ordination,  unless  he  magnifies  the 
calling  whereunto  he  has  tven  called. 
If  a  man  is  blessed  with  wealth  and 
with  the  good  things  of  this  woi  I  i, 
with  that  comes  responsibaity;  and  it 
were  better  for  him  that  he  had  re- 
mained in  poverty  all  his  days  than  to 
possess  riches  and  not  give  a  proper  ac- 
count of  his  stewardship.  Every  iaan 
who  has  been  endow-xl  with  a  gift, 
whether  it  be  the  gift  of  intelligence, 
the  gift  of  oratory,  the  gift  of  song, 
or  any  other  gift,  with  that  endow- 
ment comes  responsibility,  and  he  will 
be  held  accountable  for  every  gift  and 
talent  that  has  been  placed  within  his 
reach.  And  to  whom  much  is  given, 
from  him  much  will  be  required.  While 
visiting  one  of  the  wards  not  very 
far  from  Salt  Lake  City  I  heard  of  a 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


young  man  who  had  been  appointed  a 
Teacher  upon  one  of  the  blocks,  and 
he  was  complaining.  He  said  he  could 
not  afford  to  go  out  teaching  every 
month,  because  every  time  Iia  went  ir 
cost  him  $1.50.  I  thought  then,  how 
little  that  man  appreciated  the  respon- 
sibility that  had  been  placed  upon  him. 
He  actually  begrudged  $1.50  worth  of 
his  time  in  magnifying  the  Piiesthood 
to  which  he  had  been  ordained  by  the 
authority  of  our  Heavenly  Father' 
There  should  be  in  every  man  a  'aim- 
ing desire  to  fulfil  the  obligations  that 
are  placed  upon  him.  Every  man 
should  seek  to  enjoy  the  spirit  cf  his 
calling.  If  he  be  a  Seventy,  he 
should  enjoy  the  missionary  spirit. 
If  he  be  a  Teacher,  he  should 
enjoy  the  spirit  of  going  out 
among  the  people  and  teaching 
them  their  duties,  and  seeing  "hat 
there  is  no  iniquity  in  the  Church. 
Once  a  young  man  was  being  interro- 
gated as  to  his  being  in  a  posiuon  to 
fulfil  a  foreign  mission,  and  ho  told 
the  brethren  who  were  making  the 
investigation  that  he  was  in  debt,  and 
on  that  account  he  was"  excused  for 
the  time  being.  As  the  young  man 
went  out,  he  made  the  remark,  "I  ge  t 
out  of  that  pretty  slick.  I  t«:H  the 
brethren  I  was  in  debt;  and  what  is 
more,  I  propose  to  be  always  ir>.  .Vl>t." 
I  am  happy  to  say  there  are  only  a  lew 
cases  of  this  kind,  but  thin,  was  a 
young  man,  holding  the  Friasthooc1  cf 
a  Seventy,  who  did  not  enjoy  the 
spirit  of  his  calling.  I  want  to  say 
that  it  were  better  for  him,  unless  he 
repents  of  that  feeling,  that  a  millstone 
were  hung  around  his  neck  and  he 
were  sunk  to  the  bottom  of  the  sea. 
Every  man  that  has  been  called  as  a 
Seventy  should  enjoy  the  spirit  o*  a 
missionary.  He  may  not  tie  called  at 
the  present  time  to  go  into  the  nations. 
He  does  not  need  to  go  and  a;-k  for  an 
appointment  in  the  missionary  field.  But 
there  should  be  a  desire  in  his  heart  to 
lift  up  his  voice  and  cry  repentance  un- 
to this  generation.  If  he  does  not  have 
that  feeling  in  his  heart,  he  does 
not  enjoy  the  spirit  of  his  calling.  "We 
ought  not  to  be  glad  to  get  out  of  the 
opportunity  of  going  into  the  world  to 
proclaim  the  Gospel  message  unto  those 
who  know  not  God. 


If  I  were  to  be  asked  what  it  is  that 
arouses  in  men  and  women  the  great- 
est amount  of  energy,  and  that  causes 
all  this  activity  that  we  see  in  the 
world,  my  answer  would  be,  it  is  money. 
Men  and  women  are  struggling  after 
the  riches  of  this  world.  They  will 
work  from  early  morn  until  late  at 
night,  they  will  wear  out  their  bodies, 
in  trying  to  obtain  money.  Not  only 
will  they  do  that,  but  they  will  lie, 
they  will  cheat,  they  will  steal,  they 
will  kill  for  money!  It  is  the  desire  for 
riches  that  is  calling  out  the  greatest 
amount  of  energy  from  men  and  wo- 
men in  the  world  today.  But  among 
Latter-day  Saints  the  thing  that  ought 
to  call  out  the  best  life  forces  that  we 
have,  the  greatest  amount  of  energy 
and  activity,  is  to  do  the  will  of  the 
Father.  Once,  a  missionary,  who  was 
the  son  of  a  wealthy  man,  said  to  me, 
"Brother  Wells,  the  Bible  says  that 
money  is  the  root  of  all  evil,  but  give 
me  a  little  of  the  root."  I  talked  to 
the  young  man  for  a  few  moments,  and 
contradicted  the  statement.  I  told  him 
that  money  was  not  the  root  of  all  evil, 
and  that  the  Bible  did  not  say  it  was; 
that  money  is  a  great  blessing,  when 
people  know  how  to  utilize  it,  and  can 
be  made  the  means  of  accomplishing 
great  good.  Temples  can  be  erected 
for  the  worship  of  the  Most  High, 
buildings  like  this  Tabernacle  can  be 
constructed,  the  poor  can  be  fed,  and 
suffering  can  be  alleviated,  through  the 
application  of  money.  Money  itself,  I 
said,  was  a  blessing  in  the  hands  of 
those  who  knew  how  to  use  it.  The 
Bible  did  not  say  that  money  was  the 
root  of  all  evil,  but  it  did  say  that  the 
love  of  money  was  the  root  of  all  evil. 
When  men  give  their  hearts  to  gold, 
and  worship  mammon  rather  than  God, 
then  it  is  that  it  becomes  the  root  of 
all  evil,  and  leads  men  and  women 
away  from  the  paths  of  truth  and 
righteousness  into  the  paths  of  evil. 

May  the  Lord  bless  the  Latter-day 
Saints;  may  He  fill  us  with  an  ambi- 
tion to  magnify  our  callings  and  to  dis- 
charge ourselves  of  the  responsibility 
that  rests  upon  us.  If  we  are  wealthy, 
may  He  put  it  into  our  hearts  to  do 
something  for  the  progress  of  His  work 
here  upon  the  earth  and  for  the  estab- 
lishment of  the  kingdom  of  God.  May 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 


13. 


He  fill  us  with  the  desire  in  our  hearts 
that  when  we  leave  this  sphere  of  ac- 
tion, we  may  not  leave  immense  for- 
tunes for  our  families  to  apostatize 
over,  but  may  He  put  it  into  the 
hearts  of  our  well-to-do  brethren  and 
sisters  to  endow  the  institutions  of 
Zion.    May  God  bless  us.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang: 

1 

Guide  us,  O  Thou  great  Jehovah, 
Guide  us  to  the  promised  land. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Lewis  W. 
Shurtliff. 

AFTERNOON   SESSION,   2   P.  M. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

Redeemer  of  Israel, 

Our  only  delight, 

On  whom  for  a  blessing  we  call. 

Our  shadow  by  day 

And  our  pillar  by  night, 

Our  King,  our  Deliv'rer,  our  all. 

Prayer  by  Elder  Anthony  Ivins. 
The  choir  sang: 

( 

Though  deep'ning  trials    throng  your 
way, 

Press  on,  press  on,  ye_Saints  of  God! 
Ere  long  the  resurrection  day 
Win  spread    its    light    and  truth 
abroad. 

ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS. 

Futility  of  opposit'on  to  hindpr  progress  of  the 
the  Church — Prospective  gathering  of  the  Jews 
—  Expansive  chara*  ter  of  the  work  of  God. 

My  brethern  and  sisters,  I  rejoice 
this  morning  in  being  present  at  this 
conference,  and  was  happy  in  the  re- 
flection that  the  attendance  upon  the 
opening  session  was  the  largest  I  had 
ever  witnessed.  I  was  also  happy  in 
the  testimony  of  President  Smith  con- 
cerning the  spiritual  condition  of  the 
Saints  of  God.  It  is  indeed  a  glorious 
truth,  when  it  can  be  said  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  are  in  a  better  con- 
dition spiritually,  morally  and  finan- 
cially than  they  have  ever  been  in  be- 
fore. I  rejoiced  to  think  that,  not- 
withstanding all  the  efforts  that  have 
been  made  to  retard  the  progress  of 
God's  work,  it  is  larger,  more  prosper- 
ous, better  established  in  the  earth  now 
than  at  any  former  period  of  its  ex- 
istence. 

This  afternoon,  when  the  choir  sang 
this  beautiful  hymn   they    have  just 


closed,  I  almost  regretted  that  the  de- 
sire for  brevity  would  not  permit  them 
to  go  on  with  at  least  one  or  two 
of  the  other  verses;  for  this  song  of 
Zion  seems  particularly  adapted  to  the 
present  condition  of  the  Saints  and  the 
spirit  of  this  conference.  Listen  to  two 
or  three  of  the  other  verses  of  this  . 
hymn : 

What  though  our  rights  have  been  as- 
sailed? 

"What  though  by  foes  we've  been  des- 
poiled? 

Jehovah's  promise  has  not  failed, 
Jehovah's  purpose  is  not  foiled. 

His  work  is  moving  on  apace, 
And  great  events  are  rolling  forth; 
The  kingdom  of  the  latter  days — 
The  "little  stone"— must  fill  the  earth. 

Though  Satan  rage,  'tis  all  in  vain; 
The  words  the  ancient  Prophets  spoke, 
Sure  as  the  throne  of  God  remain, 
Nor  men  nor  devils  can  revoke. 

I  say  that  I  am  happy  in  the  reflec- 
tion that  the  work  of  God,  notwith- 
standing all  the  storms  of  opposition  it 
has  met,  moves  on  apace  in  the  earth, 
with  a  force  that  is  irresistible;  and  I 
cannot  help  but  rejoice  just  a  little — the 
brethren  must  excuse  me  if  there  is 
just  a  little  worldliriess  in  my  makeup, 
enough  at  least  to  rejoice  in  the  failure 
of  those  who  have  assailed  the  work 
of  God.  Truly,  it  must  be  just  a  little 
humiliating  to  them  when  they  see  all 
their  purposes  thwarted,  and  every 
storm  they  start  passes  over  the 
Saints  only  to  leave  them  the  stronger 
and  the  more  confirmed  in  their  faith. 
I  cannot  help  but  exult  just  a  little  at 
this  condition  of  things. 

I  rejoiced  in  the  testimony  of  the 
brethren  when  they  declared  that  the 
work  of  God  was  more  prosperous  in 
the  foreign  missions  than  it  had  ever 
been  before,  and  that  new  doors  were 
being  opened  for  the  proclamation  of 
the  Gospel.  All  these  reflections  made 
this  forenoon  a  happy  day  to  me,  and  I 
rejoiced  in  the  glorious  work  of  God 
and  in  the  contemplation  of  its  great- 
ness and  its  stability,  and  especially 
since  I  received  renewed  assurances 
that  it  would  remain  in  the  earth  until 
all  that  has  been  decreed  concerning  it 
will  be  realized. 

But  these  reflections,  brought  to  my 
mind  by  the  remarks  of  the  brethren, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


caused  me  to  extend  my  thoughts  a  lit- 
tle beyond  the  limits  of  their  remarks, 
and  I  contemplated  some  of  the  move- 
ments that  are  taking-  place  outside  of 
the  lines  of  our  Church  membership.  I 
called  to  mind  the  promise  of  the  Lord 
that  He  would  bring  to  pass  His  great 
purposes  among  all  the  nations  of  the 
earth.  And  while  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  given  a 
prominent  part  in  this  great  drama  of 
the  last  days,  it  is  not  the  only  force 
nor  the  only  means  that  the  Lord  has 
employed  to  bring  to  pass  those  things 
of  which  His  prophets  in  ancient  times 
have  testified.  I  desire  to  call  your  at- 
tention to  a  prophecy  found  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon: 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that 
the  Jews  which  are  scattered,  also  shall 
begin  to  believe  in  Christ;  and  they 
shall  begin  to  gather  in  upon  the  face 
of  the  land;  and  as  many  as  shall  be- 
lieve in  Christ  shall  also  become  a  de- 
lightsome people. 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  the 
Lord  God  shall  commence  His  work 
among  all  nations,  kindreds,  tongues 
and  people,  to  bring  about  the  restora- 
tion of  his  people  upon  the  earth." 

These  are  the  words  of  the  First 
Nephi.  I  wish  to  read;  in  connection 
with  them,  the  words  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  to  the  Nephites  on  the  occasion 
of  His  visiting  them  after  His  resur- 
rection from  the  dead  and  departure 
from  His  disciples  at  Jerusalem.  Af- 
ter portraying  the  blessings  that  would 
be  granted  unto  the  Gentiles  that 
should  inhabit  this  promised  land— the 
land  of  America — He  refers  to  the 
promises  that  have  been  made  to  the 
house  of  Israel,  and  says: 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  all 
these  things  shall  surely  come  to  pass 
[namely,  the  gathering  of  Israel,  and 
especially  the  restoration  of  the  Jews 
to  the  land  of  Palestine],  even  as  the 
Father  hath  commanded  me.  Then 
shall  this  covenant  which  the  Father 
hath  covenanted  with  his  people,  be 
fulfilled:  and  then  shall  Jerusalem  be 
inhabited  again  with  my  people,  and  it 
shall  be  the  land  of  their  inheritance. 

"And,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  I  give 
unto  you  a  sign,  that  ye  may  know  the 
time  when  these  things  shall  be  about 
to  take  place,  that  I  shall  gather  in 
from  their  long  dispersion,  my  people, 
O  house  of  Israel,  and  shall  establish 
again  among  them  my  Zion. 

"And  when  these  things  come  to  pass, 
that  thy  seed  [referring  to  the'  seed  of 
the  Nephites  and  the  Lamanites]  'shall 


begin  to  know  these  things'  [namely, 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  the 
Gospel  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salva- 
tion] 'it  shall  be  a  sign  unto  them,  that 
they  may  know  that  the  work  of  the 
Father  hath  already  commenced  unto 
the  fulfilling  of  the  covenant  which  he 
hath  made  unto  the  people  who  are  of 
the  house  of  Isreal.' 

"And  then  shall  the  work  of  the  Fath- 
er commence  at  that  day,  even  when 
this  Gospel  shall  be  preached  among 
the  remnant  of  this  people.  Verily  I 
say  unto  you,  at  that  day  shall  the 
work  of  the  Father  commence  among 
all  the  dispersed  of  my  people;  yea, 
even  the  tribes  which  have  been  lost, 
which  the  Father  hath  led  away  out  of 
Jerusalem. 

"Tea,  the  work  shall  commence 
among  all  the  dispersed  of  my  people, 
with  the  Father,  to  prepare  the  way 
whereby  they  may  come  unto  me,  that 
they  may  call  on  the  Father  in  my 
name; 

"Yea,  and  then  shall  the  work  com- 
mence, with  the  Father,  among  all  na- 
tions, in  preparing  the  way  whereby 
His  people  may  be  gathered  home  to 
the  land  of  their  inheritance." 

Now,  I  have  said  that  I  rejoiced  in 
the  reflections  that  the  remarks  of  the 
brethren  called  to  mind  in  reviewing 
the  conditions  of  the  Church  of  Christ; 
in  its  growth  at  home,  and  in  the  in- 
creasing opportunities  for  proclaiming 
the  truth  of  God  abroad.  But  I  rejoice 
also  in  those  events  that  are  taking 
place  among  the  nations,  in  which  a 
people  enlightened  by  the  revelations 
of  the  Lord  through  this  Book  of  Mor- 
mon may  see  the  hand  of  God  and  re- 
ceive the  assurance  that  the  work  of 
the  Lord,  not  only  within  the  boundary 
lines  of  the  Church,  but  among  all  na- 
tions, is  going  on  to  its  glorious  con- 
summation. 

Let  me  call  attention  to  just  one  of 
these  movements.  The  civilized  world 
was  thrilled  with  horror  some  five  or 
six  years  ago  by  the  atrocities  perpe- 
trated upon  the  Jews  in  Russia;  and 
because  of  the  oppression  inflicted  up- 
on them  a  world  of  sympathy  was  call- 
ed forth  for  that  suffering  people.  Civ- 
ilization cried  out  against  the  conduct 
of  their  oppressors.  "Various  ques- 
tions were  agitated  concerning  the 
Jews,  and  various  movements  were 
spoken  of  to  bring  to  pass  their  deliv- 
erance out  of  that  land.  One  man 
suggested  that  it  might  be  a  propi- 
tious time  to  establish  the  Jews  in  the 
ancient  land  of  Palestine — a  mere  sug- 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 


15 


gestion  from  Dr.  Theodore  Herzl.  A 
short  time  ago — namely,  "in  the  month 
of  December,  1901 — we  were  surprised 
to  learn  that  the  suggestion  had  been 
acted  upon  and  the  movement  it  inau- 
gurated had  grown  to  such  proportions 
that  at  a  conference  held  in  the  City 
of  Basle,  Switzerland,  there  were  more 
than  one  thousand  representatives  of 
the  Zionist  movement,  which  has  for 
its  object  the  colonization  of  the  Jews 
in  Jerusalem,  and  the  re-establishment 
of  the  Jews  as  a  nation;  in  fact,  it  is 
the  ambiton  of  this  organization  to 
have    the   Jews    resume    the  broken 
thread  of  their  national  existence.  At 
this  conference,  at  which  Dr.  Herzl  pre- 
sided, he  reported  that  the  Su  tan  of 
Turkey,  within  whose  dominions  the 
land  of  Judea  is  now  enclosed,  was 
friendly  disposed  towards  the  coloniza- 
tion movement  on  the  part  of  the  Jews, 
-and  regarded  them  as  desirable  colon- 
ists, and  intimated  very  clearly,  so  this 
man  reported,  that  there  would  be  no 
serious  obstacle  presented  to  the  at- 
tainment of  the  ambition  of  this  organ- 
ization.    So  far  as  his  government  was 
concerned.     Israel  Zangwill,     in  the 
month  of  October,  announced  that  out 
of  several  millions  of  dollars  that  would 
be  necessary  for  the  purchase  of  the 
land  of  Palestine,  more  than  one  mil- 
lion had  been  subscribed  by  three  or 
four  donors.     At  a  conference  of  this 
same  organization,  held  in  the  City  of 
Chicago,  at  which  there  were  repre- 
sentatives from  ten  states,  and  more 
than  2,000  people  present,  it  was  repre- 
sented that  there  were  more  than  134,- 
O00     shareholders  in  the  colonization 
trust  that  proposed  the  settlement  of 
the  Jews  in  Palestine.      I  remember 
noting  some  few  years  ago,  from  the 
British  consular  reports,    thhat  there 
were  but  from  10,000  to  15,000  Jews  in 
the  land  of  Palestine;  but  later  reports 
state  that  there  are  from  60.000  to  80,- 
000  located  in  the  land  of  Judea  now. 
More  than  134  societies,  whose  chief 
aim  is  the  accomplishment  of  this  pur- 
pose, exist  within  the  United  States 
alone,  and  the  movement  is  gaining 
impetus  and  growing  larger,  and  it  be- 
gins to  look  like  a  settled  fact  that 
Judah's  face  is  turned  toward  the  land 
of  his  fathers. 


It  would  be  interesting,  if  time  would 
permit,  to  go  into  further  explanation 
concerning  this  movement;  but  all  I 
can  do  upon  this  occasion  is  to  thus 
briefly  call  your  attention  to  it,  and 
also  to  the  fact  that  the  promise  of  the 
Father  to  that  people  begins  to  take 
the  form  of  fulfillment. 

The  passage  I  first  read  to  you  in- 
cludes these  words: 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  the 
Jews  which  are  scattered,  shall  also 
begin  to  believe  in  Christ;  and  they 
shall  begin  to  gather  in  upon  the  face 
of  the  land;  and  as  many  as  shall  be- 
lieve in  Christ  shall  also  become  a  de- 
lightsome people." 

The  change  of  sentiment  that  seems 
to  be  taking  place  among  the  Jews 
concerning  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  is  in- 
deed remarkable.  It  is  true  that 
they  refuse  to  regard  Him  as  the  Son 
of  God;  but  if  they  have  not  yet 
brought  their  faith  up  to  that  high 
point,  they  have  at  least  begun  to  hon- 
or Jesus  Christ  as  one  of  the  first  of 
their  race,  and  to  be  proud  of  the 
great  peasant-teacher  of  Judea,  as  is 
evidenced  by  the  expressions  of  many 
of  their  leading  men.  But  to  this 
other  point  in  the  passage  under  con- 
sideration: 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  the 
Lord  shall  commence  his  work  among 
all  nations,  kindreds,  tongues  and  peo- 
ple, to  bring  about  the  restoration  of 
his  people  upon  he  earth." 

One  thing  connected  with  the  great 
latter-day  work  that  has  always  had  a 
wonderful  influence  upon  my  own  mind 
has  been  the  largeness  of  it,  the  great- 
ness of  it.  I  recognize  in  "Mormon- 
ism"  one  of  the  great  world-movements 
for  the  accomplishment  of  the  mighty 
purposes  of  God.  It  is  connected  with 
all  the  other  great  world-movements 
that  are  bringing  to  pass  the  revolutions 
now  going  on  in  the  earth;  the  uplifting 
of  one  nation  and  the  putting  down 
of  another;  the  enlightened  policies  of 
administration  of  governments  by 
which  the  liberties  of  the  people  are 
extended;  the  destruction  of  isolation 
which  has  hitherto  separated  great  em- 
pires of  people  from  the  commercial 
and  social  contact  with  other  nations 
are  all  movements  which  have  connec- 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


tion  with  "Mormonism."  The  work 
of  scientists  and  inventors  resulting  in 
making  the  earth  a  network  of  rail- 
roads and  telegraph  lines,  and  convert- 
ing the  oceans,  once  a  terror  to  man, 
into  merely  convenient  highways  of 
commerce,  together  with  the  etablish- 
ment  of  those  systems  of  communica- 
tion which  bring  all  parts  of  the 
world  into  immediate  touch  with  one 
another.  All  these  things,  I  repeat, 
have  a  relationship  to  "Mormonism," 
in  that  they  are  means  by  which  phys- 
ical conditions  are  being  brought  into 
existence  that  will  co-ordinate  with 
those  spiritual  and  moral  conditions 
which  "Mormonism"  will  yet  establish, 
and  will  bring  to  pass,  the  realization 
of  the  world's  hope  for  that  reign  of 
peace  and  righteousness  called  the 
millennium. 

I  thought  perhaps  that  by  calling 
your  attention  to  things  outside  the 
lines  so  far  reached  by  the  remarks  of 
my  brethren,  might  increase  your 
joy  and  lift  up  your  hearts  in  gratitude 
to  the  Lord  for  allowing  us  to  be  con- 
nected with  a  work  so  glorious,  so  im- 
mense; a  work  that  reaches  backward 
into  the  past,  that  fills  entirely  the 
present,  and  that  will  shape  the  destiny, 
of  the  human  race.  I  thank  God  for 
the  bigness  of  His  work,  for  its  suc- 
cesses at  home  and  abroad,  and  for  the 
indications  to  be  seen  in  the  revolu- 
tions going  on  about  us  that  God's 
spirit  is  working  among  all  people,  to 
bring  to  pass  the  accomplishment  of 
His  great  designs. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you,  Amen. 

ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 

The  work  of  training  pi  ospectlve  missionaries — 
How  the  Elders  are  called— Appeal  for  personal 
purity. 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
have  listened  today  with  joy  and  sat- 
isfaction to  the  remarks  of  my  breth- 
ren, and  with  you  I  rejoice  in  the  tes- 
timony they  have  given  and  the  pleas- 
ant influence  that  has  prompted  them, 
and  that  especially  rested  upon  Presi- 
dent Smith  in  his  introductory  remarks 
this  forenoon. 

As  has  been  remarked  by  my  breth- 
ren of  the  Seventies,  many  mission- 
aries are  being  called  and  sent  into 
the  field.   We  have  at  the  present  time 


between  1,300  and  1,400  young  men  scat- 
tered throughout  about  twenty  mis- 
sionary fields.  While  there  are  less  at 
the  present  time  than  we  have  had  in 
times  past,  we  believe  that  as  a  rule 
the  Elders  are  better  equipped  now 
than  formrly;  for  they  have  better  op- 
portunities'to  school  themselves  and  to 
gain  the  information  that  will  qualify 
them  tc  meet  the  vicissitudes  and  the 
obligations  that  missionaries  have  to 
face  in  the  midst  of  an  unbelisv.'ng 
worl3.  Looking  to  this  better  equip- 
ment, the  Presidency  of  the  Church 
have  established  missionary  classes  in 
most  of  the  leading  institutions  of 
learning  in  the  various  Stakes  of  Zion. 
In  Arizona  there  is  a  Latter-day 
Saints  academy  in  the  St.  Joseph  Stake, 
which  Stake  is  presided  over  by  Prest. 
Andrew  Kimball,  and  it  seems  to  have 
been  his  ambiton  and  determination  to 
make  that  institution,  with  the  aid  of 
his  brethren  and  the  Latter-day  Saints 
of  that  Stake,  an  institution  where  the 
young  people  can  be  educated  and  ad- 
vanced along  the  lines  of  proper  edu- 
cation, thus  fitting  and  preparing  them 
for  missionary  labor  and  for  the  du- 
ties that  will  devolve  upon  them  as 
they  grow  to  riper  years.  In  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  Academy  at  Provo  is  estab- 
lished another  missionary  class;  also 
one  in  the  Snow  academy,  of  South 
Sanpete  Stake,  and  another  large  class 
in  the  Latter-day  Saints  University  of 
the  Salt  Lake  Stake  of  Zion,  and  still 
another  in  the  Weber  Stake  Academy 
and  in  the  Brigham  Young 
College  at  Logan.  In  these  mis- 
sionary classes  the  young  men  are 
taught  the  principles  of  the  Gospel. 
They  are  also  taught  good  manners. 
They  are  introduced  to  a  system  of 
study,  and  required  to  prosecute  it, 
a'ong  particular  lines,  so  as  to  prepare 
them  tor  the  duties  of  missionaries, 
and  fit  them  to  meet  the  people  of  the 
world  in  a  proper  manner  and  spirit. 
It  is  enjoined  upon  these  missionaries, 
when  they  go  out  into  the  world,  that 
they  not  only  bring  to  bear  the  power 
that  they  may  gain  by  having  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  Gospel  and  a  witness  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  in  regard  to  its  truth, 
but  that  they  shall  approach  people 
in  a  proper,  gentlemanly  manner,  and 
never  be  guilty  of  tearing  down  or 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 


IT 


pulling-  to  pieces  other  people's  re- 
ligious faith.  They  are  shown  how  to 
make  friends  with  strangers,  and  how 
to  induce  people  to  receive  them  kind- 
ly, by  creating  a  friendly  feeling  in  the 
hearts  of  those  whom  they  approach. 
About  thirteen  weeks  ago  it  was  pro- 
posed in  this  stake  of  Zion  that  there 
should  be  a  night  school  for  mission- 
aries established.  President  Paul,  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  University,  had 
an  interview  with  the  Presidency  of 
the  Church,  and  they  assigned  the  man- 
agement of  this  class  to  the  Council  of 
the  Seventies.  Immediately  the  class 
was  organized,  and  teachers  were  chos- 
en to  give  this  night  class  instruction. 
Brother  Ben  Goddard  was  chosen  as 
instructor  for  the  first  six  weeks;  Bish- 
op Iverson  of  the  Second  ward  was 
chosen  for  the  next  six  weeks;  and 
those  two  brethren  are  just  closing 
their  labors  with  this  night  class.  I 
wish  to  say  in  their  behalf  that  they 
have  manfully,  earnestly  and  profitably 
conducted  this  class;  they  have  "been 
devoted,  and  they  have  done  a  good 
work  among  the  youth  of  this  stake  of 
Zion.  They  are  worthy  of  great  praise 
ar.d  commendation  for  the  devotion 
they  have  exhibited  In  this  work. 
Brother  J.  M.  Tanner,  superintendent 
of  Church  schools,  and  a  professor  of 
marked  abiiitv  in  the  education  of  the 
youth  of  7.ion.  is  going  to  take  charge 
of  the  class  fcr  the  next  six  weeks.  We 
see  already  good  results  from  the 
training  of  these  brethren. 

In  regard  to  the  young  Elders  that 
have  recently  gone  out  on  missions,  I 
want  to  say  that  they,  like  other  El- 
ders who  have  been  called  and  sent  into 
the  missionary  field,  have  been  called 
by  the  voice  of  the  Lord  through  the 
Prophet.  Seer  and  Revelator  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  While  1  state  this  I  agree  with 
my  brethren  that  in  the  future  possi- 
bly some  brethren  of  greater  experience 
might  be  added  to  this  corps  of  young 
men  that  are  being  constantly  sent  out. 
On  the  first  of  the  month  we  set  apart 
26  young  Elders :  on  the  second,  four 
mere,  ana ,  yesterday,  18  more,  making 
48  yo:ir>y  m!ss  'i-raries  tnat  h<.  ,'e  a  Iran  'v 
been  ordained  and  set  apart  and  are 
ready  to  start.  Some  of  them  have  al- 
ready gone,  while  the  rest  are  ready  to 


go  into  the  different  parts  of  the  world. 
These  are  mostly  young  men,  some  of 
them  quite  boyish  in  their  appearance; 
and  yet  they  have  come  here  at  the 
call  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church 
and  offered  a  sacrifice,  to  devote  their 
time,  their  lives,  and  all  that  they 
have,  to  the  service  of  the  Master,  at 
the  call  of  their  leader.  When  we  look 
upon  these  young  men  we  feel  to  bless 
them.  As  the  presiding  quorum  of 
Seventy  have  considerable  of  this  la- 
bor to  do,  we  rejoice  exceedingly  when 
t.e  see  the  willingness  with  v/hi,?h 
these  young  men  respond  to  the  call* 
made  upon  them;  and  we  contemplate 
with  a  great  deal  of  satisfaction  the 
advance  that  they  have  made  in  the 
past  few  months  during  which  they 
have  been  students  in  these  missionary 
classes,  thus  fitting  and  preparing 
themselves  for  usefulness  and  begin- 
ning the  labor  of  their  lives;  for  this 
is  only  the  beginning.  As  we  have  been 
informed  by  our  presiding  officers,  oth- 
er missions  will  be  opened,  and  more 
numerous  will  the  calls  be.  Therefore, 
the  Seventies  need  to  prepare  them- 
selves for  this  great  labor,  by  earnest 
and  faithful  study  of  the  principles  of 
the  Gospel;  and  when  the  call 
comes  to  them,  let  the  feel- 
ing be  universal  in  the  quorums 
of  Seventies  that  there  is  no 
chance  to  shirk,  no  loophole  for  them 
to  get  out,  and  that  they  must  respond 
to  the  call;  for  when  a  man  is  ordained 
a  Seventy  he  becomes  a  "minute  man," 
and  the  Lord  and  His  servants  expect 
that  he  will  be  ever  ready,  for  that  is 
what  the  term  means. 

I  saw  a  notice  not  long  ago  that 
Harvard  university  was  calling  from 
its  advanced  classes  for  volunteers  to 
go  to  foreign  lands  to  preach  the  Gos- 
pel— to  be  soldiers  of  the  cross  and  fol- 
low the  Divine  Master.  It  was  stated 
that  some  had  answered  that  they  were 
ready  to  go  to  any  part  of  the  world, 
but  not  any  very  great  number.  Then 
I  asked  myself  the  question,  How  are 
they  going?  Are  they  going  out  as 
Elders,  or  Priests,  or  Seventies,  or  High 
Priests?  What  kind  of  a  calling  do 
they  get,  and  who  calls  them?  I  am 
not  going  to  pass  any  opinion  upon 
them,  nor  upon  the  call  that  they  re- 
ceived; but  I  have  learned  of  the  Gos- 


18 


"GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


pel  this  much,  that  for  a  man  to  he 
called  of  God  by  prophecy  and  by  the 
laying  on  of  hands  and  to  be  authorized 
to  go  forth  to  preach  the  Gospel,  he 
must  be  ordained  and  set  apart  under 
the  hands  of  an  Apostle  or  by  his  direc- 
tion. This  is  the  way  that  the  mis- 
sionaries of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  are  sent  out.  This 
is  the  way  the  servants  of  God  have  al- 
ways been  sent  out,  in  every  age  of 
the  world.  The  missionaries  that 
preach  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  are  always  sent  out  under  a 
divine  call,  by  direction  of  the  Apos- 
tles, with  the  Lord  Jesus  himself  at 
the  head. 

Recently  I  read  part  of  a  column  in 
the  Deseret  News  from  which  paper  I 
gain  much  valuable  information  in  re- 
gard to  things  that  are  transpiring  in 
the  world;  and  of  interest  to  the  peo- 
ple of  this  Church.  I  noticed  that  a 
Prof.  Hite  had  made  a  great  discovery 
pertaining  to  the  cliff  dwellers  along 
the  Colorado  river.  In  speaking  of  one 
cliff  dwelling  he  stated  that  he  had 
traced  it  along  the  surface  of  the  cliff 
down  near  the  bank  of  the  river,  and 
had  measured  the  distance  as  accurate- 
ly as  he  could,  and  that  one  dwelling, 
he  said,  was  more  than  a  quarter  of  a 
mile  in  length  and  four  stories  in 
height,  and  the  lower  story  was  600 
feet  up  a  perpendicular  cliff,  out  of 
reach,  and  the  rocks  projecting  as  they 
did  some  100  feet  out  from  the  cliff 
overhanging  the  dwelling  prevented 
anyone  from  being  let  down  from  the 
rock  above  to  reach  it.  This  learned 
professor  gave  it  as  his  opinion  that 
this  structure  must  have  been  erected 
more  than  12,000,000  of  years  ago,  be- 
cause the  erosion  of  that  rock  could 
not  have  been  accomplished  in  less 
time  than  that.  I  want  to  call  your 
attention  to  III  Nephi  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  We  And  there  that  great  up- 
heavals took  place  on  this  continent 
during  the  crucifixion  of  the  Savior. 
Many  cities  were  destroyed,  and  great 
inland  seas  were  formed;  great  fissures 
and  caverns  were  made  through  solid 
rocks,  and  lakes  and  rivers  drained. 
By  reading  an  account  of  this  great 
upheaval  we  may  readily  conclude  that 
it  has  not  taken  12,000,000  of  years  to 


change  the  face  of  nature  sines  these 
cliff  dwellings  were  erected.  The  Pro- 
phet Joseph,  through  the  inspiration 
of  the  Almighty,  brought  to  ii^ht  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  By  the  same  power 
he  introduced  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  and  instituted  the  or- 
ganization of  the  quorums  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood  in  the  perfect  form  that  we 
see  them  today. 

These  young  Elders  go  out  with  a 
testimony  in  their  hearts  that  in  'he 
latter  days  the  Lord  has  raised  up  a 
Prophet,  who  has  brought  life  and 
light  and  immortality  to  the  children 
of  men.  They  have  received  a  knowl- 
edge that  Jesus  is  the  Chri.it,  .ttii  that 
by  Him  and  through  Him  mankind 
may  be  redeemed,  through  faith  and 
obedience  to  the  Gospel.  The  resur- 
rection of  the  dead  is  brought  to  light 
through  the  resurrection  of  our  Re- 
deemer, and  Jesus  lived  and  died  for 
the  salvation  of  the  huma.i  family. 
These  young  Elders  have  this  testi- 
mony, which  they  go  out  to  proclaim, 
after  being  ordained  and  set  apart  Un- 
der the  inspiration  of  divine  .authority, 
through  the  Apostles  of  the  Lord 
Jesus.  Those  who  volunteer  to  go  in 
response  to  the  call  made  upon  them, 
go  forth  fearlessly,  trusting  in  the 
power  that  called  them;  reiying  not 
on  their  own  strength,  but  jn  the 
strength  of  the  power  of  God.  'We  say 
to  these  young  Elders,  "When  you  go 
into  a  house  where  they  give  you  en- 
tertainment, conduct  yourselves  as 
gentlemen;  be  clean  and  pure  in  your 
department  and  in  your  conversation; 
hold  the  honor  of  that  house  and  that 
family  as  sacred,  yea,  more  sacred  tV  an 
you  do  your  own  life,  and  do  not  per- 
mit anything  to  be  said  or  done  by  you 
that  shall  bring  suspicion  upon  you  or 
shall  tarnish  your  good  name.  You 
go  out  to  represent  a  good  people,  who 
are  virtuous,  honest,  and  upright  be- 
fore the  Lord.  Do  not  let  your  ac- 
tions tarnish  that  good  name.  Do  not 
do  anything  that  shall  prevent  you, 
when  you  return,  from  receiving  the 
embrace  of  that  loving  mother  that 
Brother  Kimball  mentioned  this  morn- 
ing; but  be  in  that  condition  that  when 
you  look  your  loved  ones  in  the  face 
you  can  do  so  without  your  cheeks 


ELDER  HTEUM  M.  SMITH. 


19 


turning  with  shame,  or  without  your 
eyes  quailing  through  a  consciousness 
of  misconduct." 

This  is  some  of  the  instruction  that 
the  Elders  receive  prior  to  their  de- 
parture for  missionary  fields.  We  want 
to  say  to  our  young  men  who  are  still 
students  in  these  missionary  classes,and 
to  all  our  young  men    and  maidens 
throughout  Israel,  Be  ye     pure  and 
clean;  observe  the  laws    of  perfect 
chastity  in  all  your  associations,  know- 
ing and  realizing  that  the  eye  of  the 
Almighty   Father   is   upon   you,  and 
that  youi  parents  and  the  pioneers  of 
this  great  work  expect  from  you  that 
you  will  conduct  yourselves  in  a  way 
that  shall  bring  credit  to  this  people, 
not  only  while  you  are  abroad.but  when 
jou  are  at  home  also.    Let  your  con- 
duct be  all  that  it  should  be,  and  do 
not  infringe  upon  the  rights  of  your  fel- 
low men.    Let  your  lives  be  garnished 
with  purity  of  thought  and  action.  The 
Jewish  maidens  were  taught  by  their 
mothers,  many  generations  before  the 
coming  of  the  Messiah,  to  be  pure  and 
clean  and  to  keep  their  persons  from 
everything  that  would  bring  a  taint  or 
a  blemish  upon  them,  for  the  reason 
that  theii-  Messiah,  the  king  ft  Judah, 
was  coming  to  reign  upon  the  earth, 
and  He  -«ould  come  through  the  loins 
of  a  Jewish  maiden.    Hence  the  Jew- 
ish    mothers    impressed     upon  their 
daughters  the  necessity    of  keeping 
themselves  virtuous  and  sweet,  so  that 
they  might  be  worthy  of  the  honor  of 
bringing  forth  the  Messiah.    Such  was 
the  lasting  impression  made  upon  the 
Jewish  maidens  by  these  teachings  that 
the  same  purity  of  thought  and  action 
charaUi.-izes  them  even  to  this  day. 
The  Messiah  came  through  a  beautiful 
Jewish  maiden,  but  they  did  not  re- 
ceive Him;   and  many  of  them  still 
look  forward  to  His  coming.    As  you 
were  informed  today,  many  of  the  Jews 
now  look  upon  the  Savior  as  a  great 
and  gcod  teacher,  and  one  worthy  of 
the  esteem  and  fellowship  of  the  Jews; 
and  in  this  connection  I  am  reminded 
of  a  little  circumstance  that  was  called 
to  my  mind  in  witnessing  a  play  called 
"The  "Wile."   In  one  scene  there  was  a 
sneet'nsr  of  the  directors  of  a  bank  at 
midnight.   Their  cashier  had  been  em- 
bezzling the  funds  of  the  bank,  and 


his  wife  came  in  to  plead  for  mercy 
for  him.  She  found,  however,  that  she 
could  not  touch  the  hearts  of  the 
bankers.  The  president  of  the  bank 
was  a  Jew,  and  she,  seeing  a  picture 
of  the  Messiah  on  the  wall  of  his  study 
where  they  were  assembled  said,  in 
the  name  of  that  holy  being  whom 
you  worship,  I  ask  for  mercy."  He 
said,  "Madam,  I  do  not  worship  that 
being."  "Why,  then,  said  she,  do  you 
have  His  picture  in  your  house.  Be- 
cause, he  replied,  he  was  a  Jew,  and 
the  greatest  Jew  that  ever  lived,  and 
why  should  I  not  have  his  picture  in 
my  house?  This  evidences  the  very 
thing  thai  Brother  Roberts  said,  that 
the  Jews  are  learning  to  look  upon  Je- 
sus, whom  we  worship,  as  the  greatest 
of  the  Jews,  as  a  great  teacher,  and 
are  honoring  Him  as  such.  The  time 
has  not  yet  come  for  them  to  ac- 
knowledge Him  as  the  Messiah  of  their 
nation,  but  it  will  come;  and  He  will 
come,  for  He  has  promised  that  He  will 
come  and  reign  upon  the  earth  with 
His  people.  It  is  the  duty  of  His  peo- 
ple, therefore,  to  prepare  for  His  second 
coming,  that  they  may  be  found  ready 
to  receive  Him,  and  not  be  like  the  un- 
believing Judean  nation— refuse  to  rec- 
ognize Him  when  He  does  come;  for 
it  is  by  the  faith  of  the  Gospel  and 
the  witness  that  we  have  in  our  hearts 
that  'vo>  Know  that  He  is  the  Savior  of 
the  world,  and  that  He  is  coming  to 
reign  on  earth  with  His  people.  May 
the  Lord  bless  you,  and  fit  and  pre- 
pare you  for  His  coming,  is  my  pray- 
er, in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  HTRUM  M.  SMITH. 

The  value,  a  qutfement  and  possesfion  of  truth— 
Prayers  that  rt*e  heard  not  always  answered— 
Evidence  of  dfrrlne  origin  of  the  Church. 

I,  too,  am  filled  with  the  spirit  of  re- 
joicing today,  in  being  permitted  to 
gather  in  conference  with  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  in  listening  to  the  tes- 
timonies of  the  servants  of  God  as  they 
are  borne.  In  looking  over  this  vast 
congregation  I  have  felt  to  offer  in  my 
heart  a  prayer  of  thanksgiving  to  my 
Father  in  heaven  that  He  has  done  so 
much  for  His  people.  Nearly  all  things 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  need  are 
given  to  them.  Whenever  they  ask, 
their  prayers  are  heard  and  answered. 


20 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


Truth  is  what  they  have  wanted,  and 
truth  is  what  they  have,  and  is  the  link 
which  welds  them  all  so  closely  to- 
gether. 

It  was  written  in  Salt  Lake  City  a 
short  time  ago  that  all  religions  have 
some  truth,  but  that  no  religion  has  all 
truth,  for  that  could  only  be  gained 
through  infinite  progression.  While 
that  statement  is  true,  yet  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  have  the  assurance  and  the 
knowledge  that  all  they  have  is  true. 
Every  principle,  every  rite,  every  com- 
mand that  has  ever  been  given  to  the 
Saints  of  God  in  these  days,  from  the 
time  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  till 
now,  is  true,  because  it  came  from 
God,  and  therefore  must  be  true.  While 
we  have  not  all  the  truth,  still  we  are 
in  that  line  of  eternal  and  infinite  pro- 
gression which  eventually  will  place  in 
the  possession  of  the  faithful  Latter- 
day  Saints  all  the  truth.  The  Latter- 
day  Saints  can  have  any  and  every 
truth  that  others  have.  I  cannot  have 
perhaps  the  same  object  that  you  have, 
but  I  may  have  a  truth  that  you  have. 
If  you  have  the  knowledge  that  the  sun 
first  makes  his  appearance  in  the  east, 
I,  too,  may  have  that  identical  knowl- 
edge. Therefore,  whenever  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  see  a  truth,  whenever  one 
is  made  known,  no  matter  where  or  by 
whom  it  is  possessed  or  found,  they  can 
possess  it  also;  and  they  do  usually  ac- 
cept gladly  every  truth  that  is  brought 
to  light.  It  makes  no  difference  to  them 
whether  it  be  Christian  or  pagan,  or 
heathen,  who  under  God  has  been  per- 
mitted to  show  forth  that  truth. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  here  we  are 
gathered  together  in  a  multitude. 
Thousands  of  us  can  stand  up  and  be- 
fore all  men  declare  that  this  is  in- 
deed the  Church  of  God,  and  that  we 
have  a  knowledge — not  a  mere  belief, 
but  a  knowledge— that  once  more  the 
Lord  has  set  His  hand  to  establish  a 
people  of  His  own  in  the  earth.  Be- 
cause we  know  this,  we  have  gathered 
together  today  to  listen  still  further  to 
the  truths  that  God  may  have  to  trans- 
mit to  His  children  here.  The  Latter- 
day  Saints  gather  in  their  meeting 
houses  every  week  and  there  bear  testi- 
mony one  to  another  of  the  goodness  of 
God.  They  testify  that  they  know  that 
God  lives,  and  that  He  indeed  did  con- 


descend to  answer  the  humble  prayer 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith;  and  they 
call  attention  to  many  of  the  gifts  and 
blessings  of  God  that  have  been  made 
known  to  them  since  their  connection 
with  the  Church.  Many  of  them  will 
tell  of  the  healings  of  the  sick  which 
have  been  made  manifest  in  their  midst. 
They  acknowledge  the  hand  of  God  in 
the  raising  of  their  loved  ones  from 
disease  and  affliction.  They  say  they 
know  their  prayers  have  been  heard. 
And  while  that  is  one  of  the  evidences 
of  the  truth  of  the  Gospel  unto  us,  there 
are,  in  my  judgment,  many  other  evi- 
dences, greater  than  the  healing  of  the 
sick,  that  God  lives  and  is  at  the  head 
of  this  work.  It  is  true  that  many 
prayers  are  heard  and  answered  in  be- 
half of  the  sick.  We  know  that  we  are 
given  that  for  which  we  ask.  We  have 
received  that  for  which  we  sought.  Yet 
how  many  parents  are  there  who  have 
prayed  earnestly  and  long,  and  with  all 
the  power  of  their  souls,  that  God 
would  give  them  back  one  who  was  at 
the  point  of  death,  and  still  their  pray- 
er has  not  been  answered?  How  many 
children  have  also  offered  such  prayers 
in  behalf  of  parents,  and  yet  their 
prayers  have  not  been  answered;  but 
those  for  whom  they  wept  and  prayed 
have  been  taken  away.  Prest. 
Woodruff  often  used  to  say  that  he  had 
passed  the  allotted  time  of  man 
and  was  kept  alive  by  the  faith  and 
prayers  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Here 
Apostle  Brigham  Young  comes  back 
to  us  almost  from  the  point  of  death, 
and  testifies  that  God  raised  him  up, 
and  that  he  knew  the  prayers  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  were  ascending  to 
Him  in  his  behalf.  Yet  the  time  came, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  when  all  the 
prayers  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  earn- 
est though  they  were,  and  accompanied 
by  the  faith  of  the  people,  did  not  save 
President  Woodruff  from  death.  The 
time  has  come  when  our  prayers  in  be- 
half of  many  of  our  loved  ones  have  not 
been  answered,  but  those  for 
whom  we  have  prayed  have  been  taken 
away.  But,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
because  they  are  taken  away,  is  that 
any  sign  that  our  prayers  were  not 
heard  by  our  Father  in  heaven?  Not  in 
the  least.  It  is  but  an  evidence  that 
God  knows  best,  that  His  will  is  not 


ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 


21 


our  will,  and  that  the  time  had  come 
when  He  saw  it  wiser  not  to  answer 
that  prayer.  How  often  do  parents  have 
to  deny  the  prayers  and  petitions  of 
their  own  children.  Notwithstanding 
the  child  desires  a  thing  greatly,  and 
can  see  no  reason  why  he  should  not 
have  it,  yet  in  the  greater  wisdom  of 
the  parent  his  request  is  denied  and 
the  supposed  blessing  is  withheld.  But 
that  is  no  evidence  that  the  prayer  was 
not  considered  by  the  parent;  it  is  sim- 
ply an  evidence  that  the  parent  knows 
best  when  to  give  and  when  to  with- 
hold. 

The  healing  of  the  afflictions  of  physi- 
cal man  by  the  power  of  God  is  one  of 
the  evidences  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ;  but  it  is  a  greater  evidence  to 
me,  that  there  are,  as  has  been  men- 
tioned, thousands  of  young  men,  Elders 
in  Israel,  filled  with  the  power  and  spir- 
it of  the  Holy  Ghost,  going  abroad  in 
the  world,  clothed  with  the  Holy 
Priesthood  and  power  of  Almighty  God, 
equipped  with  the  pure  and  unadulter- 
ated principles  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  healing  the  nations  of  their 
spiritual  and  soul-destroying  ailments 
and  afflictions.  These  Elders  go  forth, 
taking  the  Gospel  with  them,  and  after 
they  have  healed  men  of  the  errors  and 
falsehoods  they  have  been  traditioned 
in  from  their  youth  up  they  bring  them 
home  to  Zion.  Here  we  are,  a  people 
from  almost  every  nation  in  the  world, 
men  and  women  of  different  tongues, 
different  customs,  different  heliefs,  dif- 
ferent gods;  brought  together,  through 
this  glorious  panacea  for  the  ills  of  all 
men,  and  made  one  in  Christ  Jesus, 
with  one  Lord,  one  faith,  one  baptism, 
knowing  each  other,  knowing  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel  as  they  have  been 
revealed,  and  testifying  to  the  truth  of 
them — all  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  This  is  a  testimony  to  me, 
greater  indeed  than  the  healing  of  the 
sick  or  the  taking  away  from  this  life 
of  any  individual.  Gathered  together 
in  the  vales  of  the  Rocky  Mountains, 
in  fulfillment  of  prophecy,  are  the  peo- 
ple of  God,  and  here  they  are  estab- 
lished as  an  evidence  that  it  is  futile 
for  the  world  to  raise  a  hand  against 
the  Latter-day  Saints  to  retard  their 
progress  or  check  their  advancement.. 
They  cannot  be  stopped;  they  must  go 


on;  for  God  is  their  leader.  As  Brother 

Roberts  said  he  must  exult  a  little,  I 

often  exult  a  great  deal  because  of  the 

goodness  of  God    to    His     people  in 

thwarting  the  efforts    of  unrighteous 

men  to  check  the  progress  of  and  to 

bring  reproach  and  ignominy  upon  the 

Saints  of  the  Most  High.    I  rejoice  in 

this,  and  I  love  to  see  the  Church  grow, 

in  spite  of  all  they  can  do.    I  love  to 

see  the  people  live  near  unto  God,  obey 

His  commands,  accept  the  leaders  of 

the  Church  as   men  chosen  of  God, 

hearken  to  their  counsels,  and  meet  to- 
ff 

gether  with  smiling  countenances. 

All  of  us  may  have  a  knowledge  that 
this  is  the  one  and  only  religion  in  all 
the  wide  world  of  which  it  can  be  said, 
"all  they  have  is  true."  Yet  how  glad- 
ly we  would  extend  it  to  everyone  else! 
How  gladly  we  would  give  to  others 
that  which  we  have  received,  and  how 
assiduously  are  we  working  for  the  sal- 
vation of  men,  as  is  evidenced  by  the 
hundreds  upon  hundreds  of  Elders  sent 
forth  to  proclaim  repentance  and  salva- 
tion to  the  world! 

Another  evidence  of  the  truth 
of  the  Gospel — a  very  strong 
one  to  me — is  the  organization  of 
the  Church.  Look  at  it,  my  brethren 
and  sisters.  Men  in  the  world  have 
wondered  and  could  not  understand 
how  it  was  that  God  could  be  omni- 
scient and  omnipresent,  and  the  teach- 
ing of  this  doctrine  has  led  them  into 
all  kinds  of  error  as  to  who  and  what 
God  is.  Now,  look  at  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints— a 
church  composed  of  nearly  four  hun- 
dred thousand  people,  divided  Into 
stakes  and  wards  and  missionary  fields, 
presided  over  by  men  holding  the  holy 
Priesthood.  Think  of  all  that  number 
of  souls,  and  then  bear  in  mind  that 
the  President  of  the  Church  can  within 
a  few  hours,  get  in  touch  with  the 
remotest  parts  of  the  Church,  and  be- 
come acquainted  with  almost  every  in- 
dividual member.  His  knowledge  con- 
cerning any  part  of  the  Church,  scat- 
tered throughout  the  world,  becomes 
almost  omniscient.  All  he  needs  to  do 
is  to  communicate  with  the  president 
of  the  stake,  whom  he  knows,  and  that 
president  may  communicate  with  the 
Bishop  of  a  ward,  the  Bishop  may  in- 
form his  teachers  that  he  desires  in- 


22 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


formation  concerning  a  family  or  an 
individual  in  his  ward,  and  the  infor- 
mation is  received,  and  transmitted 
right  back  to  the  head  of  the  Church. 
In  this  way  the  President  of  the  Church 
is  brought  in  touch  with  all  the 
Church,  in  all  its  branches,  however 
remote  they  may  be.  If,  then,  one 
man,  in  a  finite  condition,  on  become 
so  thoroughly  acquainted  with  a  peo- 
ple numbering  four  hundred  thousand, 
can  we  not  understand  how  easy  it  is 
for  God,  who  is  infinite,  to  receive  all 
knowledge  concerning  all  the  works  of 
His  hands?  The  organization  of  the 
Church  is  as  perfect  as  it  can  possibly 
be  in  our  present  state.  All  has  been 
given  us  that  we  are  capable  of  receiv- 
ing. And  Oh!  how  we  rejoice  in  it, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  in  the 
knowledge,  too,  that  eye  hath  not  seen, 
nor  ear  heard,  neither  hath  it  entered 
into  our  hearts,  what  God  has  in  store 
for  us  as  we  march  on  in  that  infinite 
progression  and  advancement.  All 
things  will  be  given  to  us— all  power, 
all  glory,  all  knowledge,  even  as  our 
Father  in  heaven  possesses  it — in  due 
time,  as  we  are  capable  of  receiving 
them. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  ought  we 
not  to  rejoice  in  the  testimony  of  the 
truth,  and  ought  we  not  to  give  glory 
to  God?  After  He  has  done  so  much 
for  us,  ought  we  not  to  do  all  we  can 
for  Him,  and  for  His  children,  all  over 
the  world,  no  matter  who  they  are, 
where  they  are,  or  what  they  are? 
Should  we  not  love  our  enemies,  and 
be  willing  to  do  all  we  can  for  them, 
even  though  their  hand  be  raised 
against  us?  God  has  done  so  much  for 
us  that  if  we  do  all  we  can  and  live 
to  the  age  of  a  tree,  we  will  never  be 
able  to  repay  Him  for  His  goodness 
to  us. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we 
have  the  truth.  The  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  said  that  the  truth  was  a 
knowledge  of  things  as  they  were,  a 
knowledge  of  things  as  they  are,  and 
a  knowledge  of  things  as  they  are  to 
come.  Is  not  that  a  beautiful  defini- 
tion of  truth?  Does  it  not  embrace  all 
truth?  And  indeed,  according  to  that 
definition,  have  not  the  Latter-day 
Saints  more  truth  than  all  the  other 
peoples  of  the  wide  world,  because  they 


have  a  greater  knowledge  of  the  deal- 
ings of  God  with  men  in  the  past,  of 
man's  condition  in  the  present,  and  of 
the  destiny  of  mankind,  than  any  other 
people  or  denomination?  And  how  have 
we  received  this,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters? Why  are  we  thus  placed  above 
others?  Because  we  have  been  will- 
ing to  humble  ourselves  and  accept 
the  testimonies  of  the  truth  as  they 
have  been  brought  to  us  by  those  El- 
ders who  found  us  in  the  world  with- 
out a  knowledge  of  the  truth.  The 
Lord  indeed  has  been  merciful  unto  us, 
and  I  trust  that  He  always  will  be,  and 
that  we  will  ever  be  worthy  of  the 
trust  which  God  has  reposed  in  us; 
that  we  may  stand  on  the  foundation 
of  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  as  they 
have  been  made  known  to  us  and  as 
they  may  yet  be  made  known,  and 
never  deviate,  never  sacrifice  a  princi- 
ple, no  matter  what  consideration  may 
be  brought  to  bear  upon  us  to  do  so. 
Stand  firmly  upon  the  foundation 
of  the  truth,  you  Latter-day 
Saints.  Seek  for  more  truth;  put 
yourselves  in  a  position  to  receive 
more  truth;  and  God  stands  will- 
ing and  anxious  to  still  pour  out 
upon  us  a  knowledge  of  greater  truths 
than  we  at  present  can  conceive  of. 
Let  us  make  the  truth  known  to  others. 
All  that  the  Lord  has  given^and  ' He  : 
has  given  freely— let  us  be  willing  to  ' 
give  to  others.  Let  us  seek  for  the 
salvation  of  the  souls  of  men.  And 
while  we  are  working  in  the  world  for 
the  salvation  of  those  who  are  yet  in 
unbelief,  let  us  work  also  for  the  salva- 
tion of  the  souls  of  our  children,  and 
bring  them  up  to  maturity  in  the  fear 
and  admonition  and  knowledge  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

May  God  bless  us;  may  we  still  pros- 
per; may  we  still  be  blessed,  and  may 
we  never,  because  of  the  goodness  of 
God  and  the  blessings  He  has  bestowed 
upon  us  freely,  imagine  in  our  souls 
that  we  are  better  than  the  other  chil- 
dren of  God.  We  have  been  more  fa- 
vored; we  ought  to  be  better;  but  nev- 
er let  us  exalt  ourselves  above  others. 
Let  us  be  humble.  Let  us  seek  the 
truth,  and  receive  it  when  it  is  made 
known  to  us.  Continue  on  in  this  path 
of  righteousness,  and  then  indeed  can 
the  powers  of  the  adversary  not  pre- 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 


23 


vail  with  us.  The  Lord  bless  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  bless  His  work,  bless 
the  children  of  God  in  all  the  wide 
world.  May  He  hasten  the  day  when 
sin  and  wickedness,  error  and  corrup- 
tion shall  be  put  down,  and  when  adul- 
terated truth  may  be  no  more  retailed 
and  wholesaled  to  the  children  of  men 
as  true  religion,  by  those  calling  them- 
selves doctors  of  divinity,  but  when  all 
men  may  dispense    the  truth   for  the 


love  of  the  truth  and  for  the  love  of 
seeing  men  come  unto  the  Lord  out  of 
the  obscurity  and  darkness  of  error  and 
unbelief,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 
The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the 
Lord, 

Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  His  excellent 
word. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Wm.  T.  Jack. 


SECOND  DAY. 


Singing  by  the  choir: 

All  hall  the  glorious  day, 

By  prophets  long  foretold, 
On  Zion's  hill  His  praise  proclaim, 

And   shout  hosanna  to   His  name. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  E.  D. 
Woolley. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

For  the  strength  of  the  hills  we  bless, 
Thee, 

Our  God,  our  father's  God. 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 

People  should  be  fed  with  the  bread  of  life — 
Prophecy  fulfilled — Progressive  character  of 
the  community — World  afraM  of  the  truth — 
High  moral  status  of  the  Saints — Missionary 
work  and  proper  training  of  children. 

In  looking  upon  this  multitude  this 
morning  I  can  assure  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  I  feel  my  weakness 
in  standing  before  you;  but  I  rely  upon 
the  prayers  that  have  been  offered  dur- 
ing this  conference  in  behalf  of  those 
who  shall  speak,  to  guide  my  utter- 
ances. I  sense  the  responsibility  that 
rests  upon  the  servants  of  the  Lord  as 
teachers,  to  give  to  the  people  the  word 
of  the  Lord.  I  indeed  rejoiced  yester- 
day in  listening  to  the  testimonies  that 
were  given  of  the  growth  of  this  peo- 
ple. Zion  is  growing,  "Zion  kept  by  pow- 
er divine."  I  also  rejoiced  in  hearing  the 
Prophet  of  the  Lord  speak  to  the  peo- 
ple and  say  that  they  were  increasing 
in  good  works,  in  the  payment  of  their 
tithes,  and  in  numerical  strength,  and 
that  God  was  blessing  them  both  tem- 
porally and  spiritually.  I  noticed  in 
the  Deseret  News,  on  Wednesday,  a 
statement  from  the  president  of  the 


Mexican  mission  that  30  members  of 
the  Church  had  come  from  Mexico  to 
attend  this  conference,  costing  them 
something  over  $7,000  to  make  the  trip; 
and  I  thought  to  myself,  how  important 
it  was  that  every  speaker  should  speak 
by  the  power  of  God,  that  those  faith- 
ful Saints  should  be  repaid  for  so  great 
a  financial  sacrifice.  It  is  certain  every 
one  of  them  will  attend  every  meeting 
during  this  conference,  because  they 
came  here  for  no  other  purpose  than 
to  be  fed  with  the  word  of  God.  "What 
a  responsibility  it  is  upon  those  who 
are  called  upon  to  teach  people  with 
such  faith  in  God  and  such  devotion 
to  His  work,  and,  as  I  have  said,  I  feel 
my  weakness  in  doing  so;  but  I  shall 
claim  an  interest  in  the  prayers  that 
have  been  offered,  that  the  spirit  of 
Almighty  God  may  be  with  me,  so  that 
1  may  by  the  grace  of  God  feed  the  peo- 
ple the  bread  of  life. 

I  also  noticed  in  that  same  report 
that  in  far-off  Mexico  there  were  at 
least  3,000  people  who  had  taken  upon 
them  the  name  of  the  Lord,  who  had 
bowed  the  knee  to  the  God  we 
worship,  who  had  acknowledged  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  who  were  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  When  Prest. 
Joseph  F.  Smith  was  speaking  of  the 
wonderful  progress  of  this  work,  it  was 
brought  to  my  mind  that  the  prayers 
of  Saints  in  asking  that  Zion's  Stakes 
be  strengthened  and  her  cords  length- 
ened, have  been  answered.  Not  only 
are  we  growing  in  the  Rocky  moun- 
tains, but  we  are  spreading  all  over  the 
face  of  the  earth.   While  I  was  think- 


24 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


ing  of  these  things  it  called  to  my  mind 
a  revelation  that  was  given  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  the  year  1829, 
a  short  time  before  the  Church  was  or- 
ganized. Joseph  Smith  was  only  23 
years  old  then,  and  I  ask  you  today  to 
see  if  the  words  that  were  revealed  to 
the  boy  Prophet  at  that  time  have  not 
been  verified  in  the  history  of  this  peo- 
ple. 

"1.  Now  behold,  a  marvelous  work  is 
about  to  come  forth  among  the  children 
of  men; 

"2.  Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in 
the  service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve 
him  with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind 
and  strength,  that  ye  may  stand  blame- 
less before  God  at  the  last  day; 

"3.  Therefore,  if  ye  have  desires  to 
serve  God,  ye  are  called  to  the  work, 

"4.  Behold  the  'field  is  white  already 
to  harvest,  and  lo,  he  that  thrusteth  in 
his  sickle  with  his  might,  the  same 
layeth  up  in  store  that  he  perish  not, 
but  bringeth  salvation  to  his  soul; 

"5.  And  faith,  hope,  charity  and 
love,  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of 
God,  qualify  him  for  the  work. 

"6.  Remember  faith,  virtue,  knowl- 
edge, temperance,  patience,  brotherly 
kindness,  godliness,  charity,  humanity, 
diligence. 

"7.  Ask  qnd  ye  shall  receive,  knock 
and  it  shall  be  opened  unto  you. 
Amen." 

Even  before  this  revelation  was  giv- 
en, the  world  was  worried  over  the 
statement  made  by  this  same  Prophet, 
that  God  and  His  Son  Jesus  Christ  had 
appeared  unto  him;  and  all  the  Chris- 
tian denominations  were  up  ii  arms 
against  him  as  soon  as  he  made  the 
statement.  They  have  been  trying  to 
block  the  wheels  of  this  work  ever 
since,  and  have  stopped  at  nothing  to 
bring  about  its  destruction.  I  tell  you 
God  will  not  allow  this  Church  to  be 
overthrown  or  given  to  another  people. 
If  it  was  possible  for  Satan  to  destroy 
this  work,  he  would  have  accomplished 
it  in  its  infancy. 

When  we  look  at  the  marvelous 
growth  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  read  the 
prophecies  of  the  Prophet  of  God  who 
was  chosen  to  open  this  last  dispensa- 
tion, it  seems  to  me  that  it  leaves  no 
room  to  doubt  that  the  hand  of  God  has 
been  over  this  people  from  the  day  the 
Church  was  organized  up  to  the  present 
time.  It  is  true  that  we  have  been 
tried  and  tempted;  it  is  true  we  have 


been    persecuted,    and    all  manner  of 
falsehoods  have  been  circulated  against 
us,   and  retailed  and  wholesaled  the 
world  over;  but  let  me  say  to  you,  be 
faithful  to  the  God  that  has  watched 
over  this  people  and  to  His  command- 
ments, and  just  as  sure  as  we  have  in- 
creased to  what  we  are  today,  just  so 
sure  will  the  little  stone  that  was  cut 
out  of  the  mountain  without  hands  roll 
forth  and  fill  the  whole  earth,  as  the 
Prophet  of  God  foretold.    The  time  is 
not  far  distant  when  men  and  women 
from  among  this  people  will  be  wanted 
all  over  the  world.    I  want  to  testify 
to  you  today  that  this  people,  who  have 
been  chosen  of  God,  will  yet  teach  the 
world  the  way  of  life,  and  the  only  way 
to  get  back  into  the  presence  of  God. 
The  world  may  not  believe  it,  and  they 
may  hold  out  against  it  as  long  as  it  is 
possible;  but  the  word  has  been  spoken 
that  this  people,  governed  by  the  rev- 
elations of  the  Almighty,  shall  yet  be  a 
light  unto  the  world  and  teach  them 
the  way  back  unto  eternal  life.  Why, 
today  the  world  look  upon  us  in  wonder. 
It  is  true,  they  are  trying  in  various 
ways  to  break  down  the  power  that 
this  people  is  wielding  in  the  earth; 
but  I  want  to  say  to  you,  it  cannot  be 
done.    As  we  advance  and  Increase  in 
knowledge,  they  will  fight  it  harder 
and  harder;  but  God  has  said  that  it 
would  roll  on,  and  it  will  go  on  and  on. 
Today  we  command  the  respect  of  the 
honest  and  respectable  portion  of  all 
classes  who  know  us.    Whatever  we 
undertake  to  do,  whatever  is  placed 
upon    us    by  the    authorities    of  the 
Church,  is  fulfilled  and  accomplished. 
There  is  scarcely  a  colonization  scheme 
proposed  but  those  interested  in  it  ask 
for  the  "Mormon"  people  to  become  in- 
terested in  it  and  carry  it  on  to  suc- 
cess.  Have  you  not  noticed  that  wher- 
ever the  Mormon  people  have  put  their 
hands  to  accomplish  a  thing,  and  the 
Prophet  of  the  Lord  has  said  it  would 
be  a  success,  no  matter  how  hard  or 
difficult  it  may  have  appeared,  it  has 
always  been  successfully  accomplished. 
We  are  spreading  abroad  into  all  the 
adjacent  States  and  Territories,  and  our 
influence  is  felt  for  good  wherever  we 
go.   In  Mexico,  in  Arizona,  in  Wyoming, 
in    Idaho,    in  Canada,    and   in  every 
country  where  the  people  are  called  to 


ELDER   REED  SMOOT. 


go,  those  interested  in  that  section  of 
country  and  in  its  development  say, 
"Let  the  Mormon  people  come  and 
teach  us  how  to  make  a  new  country." 
There  are  always  two  sides  to  a  ques- 
tion, and  while  you  hear  some  people 
claiming  that  Mormonism  is  on  the 
wane,  there  are  others  who  look  upon 
it  as  a  menace,  and  a  growing  one 
at  that.  I  have  here  a  clip- 
ping taken  from  one  of  the  great 
New  York  papers,  and  it  states: 
"The  danger  of  Mormonism  is  un- 
derrated, not  overrated.  When  the 
public  realizes  that  there  are  two  Mor- 
mon Churches  in  Brooklyn,  on?  in 
Manhattan,  one  in  Philade'phia,  a 
strong  and  growing  Mormon  settlement 
on  the  borders  of  Pennsylvania,  and 
New  Jersey,  and  that  the  strongest  ■ 
Church  in  a  section  fifty  miles  from 
Jersey  City  is  Mormon,  it  may  be  un- 
derstood that  the  situation  is  menac- 
ing." 

This  statement,  which  startled  the 
women's  executive  committee  of  the 
domestic  missions  of  the  reformed 
church  at  its  eighteenth  anniversary 
in  ths  city,  was  made  by  Miss  Elizabeth 
V.  Vermilye,  a  member  of  the  commit- 
tee, in  an  address  upon  Mormonism  in 
the  east.    She  said  further: 

"It  was  predicted  that  in  fifty  years 
the  Mormons  would  control  a  belt  of 
^States  cutting  the  country  in  two  from 
northeast  to  southwest.  The  predic- 
tion has  been  verified  in  twenty  years 
instead  of  fifty.  They  own  land  from 
the  Rocky  mountains  to  the  Sierras  and 
are  spreading  east  as  I  have  told  you. 
They  control  four  western  states  and 
at  the  present  rate  of  progress  in  others 
will  soon  have  supremacy." 

I  say  to  you  my  brethren  and  sisters 
that  as  God  has  predicted  that  this 
people  shall  grow  and  increase  the  work 
will  go  on  and  on  until  every  word 
that  has  been  uttered  by  the  Prophets 
of  the  Lord  shall  be  fulfilled  in  every 
particular.  What  if  we  did  control  four 
western  states?  What  if  we  controlled 
all  the  western  states?  I  testify  that  if 
it  were  so  there  would  be  no  man  or 
woman  living  within  the  borders  of 
those  states  but  would  have  absolute 
liberty.  No  authority  in  this  Church 
would  ever  take  one  whit  from  them 
of  their  rights.    No  priesthood  that  we 


hold  would  ever  interfere  with  a  man's 
citizenship.  If  these  states  were  con- 
trolled by  the  Mormon  people,  they 
would  be  controlled  in  righteousness, 
honesty  and  honor. 

A  few  years  ago  there  was  a  Congress 
of  religions  at  Chicago,  and  every 
known  religious  denomination  of  the 
world  was  invited  to  be  represented. 
The  Anglo-Saxon,  the  Latin,  and  all 
other  known  races,  the  semi-civilized, 
and  even  the  uncivilized  nations  were 
asked  to  be  present  by  representation. 
The  Latter-day  Saints,  desirous  of  pre- 
senting the  truths  as  revealed  through 
Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet,  sent  a  rep- 
resentative and  you  all  know  the  re- 
sult, they  would  not  receive  him.  I 
was  impressed  that  the  reason  we  were 
not  allowed  representation  was  that 
they  were  afraid  of  the  light  and  truth 
that  would  be  given  to  them  from  the 
representative  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Later-day  Saints.  His  tes- 
timony would  condemn  them  all.  One 
thing  the  matter  with  the  world 
today  is:  They  do  not  want  the  light; 
they  do  not  want  the  truth;  they  want 
to  live  as  they  are  living;  but  just  as 
sure  as  the  sun  will  rise  tomorrow 
morning,  just  so  sure  will  the  truths 
of  heaven  as  revealed  to  Joseph  Smith 
condemn  or  save  the  world.  It  may 
be  slow;  truth  always  moves  slowly, 
but  it  will  be  triumphant  in  the  end. 
So  will  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  triumph  over  all  op- 
position. 

In  this  revelation  we  are  admonished 
to  remember  faith.  I  do  not  believe 
that  there  is  a  people  upon  the  face 
of  the  earth  with  more  faith  than  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  Every  act  of  their 
lives,  every  move  that  has  been  made 
by  the  Authorities  of  the  Church,  goes 
to  show  that  they  have  had  unbounded 
faith  in  God.  And  we  will  continue 
to  have  faith  in  that  same  God  who 
directed  us  to  this  land,  who  has 
watched  over  us  at  all  times,  and  will 
do  so  as  long  as  we  serve  and  honor 
Him. 

The  revelation  also  says,  remember 
virtue.  My  brethren  and  sisters,  as 
far  as  my  travels  have  extended — and 
they  have  been  in  a  great  many  coun- 
tries of  this  world — I  testify  to  you  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


there  is  not  a  people  upon  the  earth 
that  holds  so  sacred  the  law  of  virtus 
as  do  the  Latter-day  Saints.  True,  it 
was  reported  here  yetsterday  that 
some  of  the  vices  of  the  world  were 
creeping  into  our  midst,  and  as  a  result 
in  some  instances,  there  is  a  loss  of 
virtue  among  our  youth.  As  long  as 
there  is  one  case  of  this  in  the  Church 
it  is  too  many;  but  for  all  this  I  know 
there  is  no  people  on  the  earth  who  are 
as  virtuous  as  a  whole  as  are  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints. 

The  remarks  that  were  made  yester- 
day about  our  missionaries  and  the 
qualifications  required  for  a  missionary, 
I  fully  endorse.  The  other  day  I  had 
one  of  the  Elders,  who  had  presided 
over  a  conference  in  a  mission,  tell  me 
that  be  did  not  think  there  was  much 
difference  between  the  missionary  that 
came  into  the  field  unprepared  and  the 
one  that  came  prepared;  for,  he  said, 
God  mskes  up  to  the  one  unprepared 
and  it  was  but  a  short  time  until  the 
one  that  came  unprepared  was  just  as 
fully  qualified  as  the  one  that  came 
prepared.  I  took  issue  with  him  on  this, 
for  I  know,  when  I  was  in  the  mission- 
ary field,  the  men  that  came  from  our 
Church  schools,  where  they  had  been 
taught  the  principles  of  the  Gospel, 
were  ready  to  go  to  work  at  once,  while 
most  of  the  others  were  not.  But, 
said  I,  grant  that  what  you  say  is  true; 
I  want  to  tell  you  that  there  is  some- 
thing more  than  that.  I  said  to  him, 
and  I  say  to  the  mothers  and  fathers 
here,  that  missionaries  whose  associ- 
ates are  bad  before  going  on  a  mission 
may  go  and  fulfill  a  satisfactory  mis- 
sion; and  receive  an  honorable  release, 
with  the  blessing  of  the  President,  but 
if  they  have  been  wayward  before  they 
leave,  and  their  companions  have  been 
unfit  for  an  Elder  of  the  Church  to  as- 
sociate with,  in  almost  every  case  as 
soon  as  they  return  they  go  right  back 
into  the  same  company  and  fall  into  the 
same  evil  habits  as  they  had  before 
they  went.  It  is  nothing  but  natural 
that  they  should  do  so.  The  result  is, 
in  too  many  cases,  they  are  not  home 
from  their  mission  three  months  until 
they  are  in  almost  the  same  condition 
spiritually  as  they  were  before  they 
went.  I  have  thought  many  a  time 
that  if  I  had  a  son  called  upon  a  mis- 


sion who  had  had  bad  associates  before 
going,  I  would  want  him  on  returning 
to  go  to  some  other  place  to  live,  and 
take  up  with  new  associates,  get  away 
from  the  influence  of  his  old  com- 
panions and  start  anew  in  life.  I  be- 
lieve that  the  surroundings  and  asso- 
ciations our  young  men  are  taken 
from  have  a  great  influence  upon  them 
when  they  return  from  their  missions, 
and  it  is  the  cause  of  many  of  them 
falling  back  into  the  old  rut.  I  want 
to  ask  the  Bishops  to  look  after  the 
boys  who  come  from  missions.  Per- 
haps you  ask  them  to  speak  on  their 
return,  and  never  think  of  them  again. 
Keep  them  in  the  harness;  put  them  to 
work  in  the  Priesthood;  for  if  they  are 
kept  at  work  they  will  enjoy  the  spirit 
that  they  had  while  in  the  mission- 
ary field.  Let  them  return  and  do 
nothing  at  all,  and  they  soon  become 
cold  and  lose  the  testimony  they  sacri- 
ficed so  much  to  obtain.  I  felt  like 
saying  this  much  upon  the  missionary 
question. 

In  a  revelation  given  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  to  Sidney 
Rigdon,  Parley  P.  Pratt  and  Lem- 
on Copley  in  the   year  1831,   it  says: 

"But  before  the  great  day  of  the  Lord 
shall  come,  Jacob  shall  flourish  in  the 
wilderness,  and  the  Lamanites  shall 
blossom  as  the  rose. 

"Zion  shall  flourish  upon  the  hills  and 
rejoice  upon  the  mountains,  and  shall  . 
be  assembled  together  unto  the  place 
which  I  have  appointed. 

"Behold,  I  say  unto  you,  go  forth  as 
I  have  commanded  you — repent  of  all 
your  sins,  ask  and  ye  shall  receive, 
knock  and  it  shall  be  opened  unto  you: 

"Behold,  I  will  go  before  you  and 
be  your  rearward;  and  I  will  be  in  your 
midst,  and  you  shall  not  be  confound- 
ed; 

"Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  and  I 
come  quickly.  Even  so.  Amen. 

I  want  to  call  the  attention  of  the 
people  to  the  fulfillment  of  this  predic- 
tion. Has  not  Jacob  flourished  upon 
the  mountain?  is  not  Zion  surrounded 
by  hills?  As  stated  in  the  beautiful 
hymn  that  was  sung  this  morning, 

"For  the  strength  of  the  hills  we  bless 
Thee, 

Our  God  our  fathers  God." 

I  am  most  thankful  that  God  my 
Father  allowed  me  to  be  born  in  Zion, 
surrounded  by  the  grand  old  hills,  and 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 


under  the  everlasting  covenant.    I  am 
thankful  that  he  gave  me  such  noble 
parents,  and  I  hope  to  live  so  that  I 
may  merit  the  blessings  that  have  been 
conferred  upon  me  by  my  heavenly 
Father.    Children  are  given  to  us,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  as  a  blessing.  The 
world  today  do  not  believe  in  having 
families,  for  they  seem  to  think  that 
children  are  a  burden;   but  the  first 
great  law  that  God  gave  to  man  was, 
multiply    and    replenish    the  earth. 
Thank  God  that  this  people  practice 
and  believe  in  this  commandment.  Our 
children  are  a  blessing  to  us,  or  they 
bring  sorrow  and  trouble  upon  us.  Let 
us  watch  and  take  care  of  them.  Let 
us  realize  that  they  are  placed  in  our 
care  by  the  Father;  that  they  should  be 
Jewels  in  our  crown  in  the  world  to 
come.  I  promise  the  mothers  and  fath- 
ers here,  if  they  do  not  watch  their 
children,  there  will  be  many  of  them 
making  the  same    statement,  wrung 
from  the  anguish  of  their  souls,  as  one 
father  made,  according  to  last  night's 
News:    "My  boy  has  been  the  victim 
of  the  baneful  influence  of  a  depraved 
moral  degenerate  and  the  evil  effects 
of  dime  novel  reading."   I  hope  to  God 
that  every  mother  and  father  in  Israel 
will  watch  carefully  their  sons  and 
daughters.    Be  a  little  suspicious  of 
them,  if  you  can  do  it  in  a  way  that 
they  will  not  realize  it.   Examine  what 
they  read;  learn  where  they  go,  and 
who  their  associates  are.    There  are  so 
many  fathers  and  mothers  who  think 
that  it  is  some  associate  of  their  child- 
ren who  is  the  bad  one,  while  perhaps 
it  may  be  their  child  that  is  the  bad  as- 
sociate of  others. 

T  ask  the  fathers  and  mothers  of  Israel 
to  not  only  watch,  but  pray  with  your 
children.  Make  them  your  confidants; 
salute  them  with  a  kiss;  keep  them 
within  your  love;  make  them  feel  that 
no  soul  that  lives  has  such  an  interest 
in  them  as  you  have;  make  the  home 
just  as  happy  and  comfortable  as  pos- 
sible for  them,  and  keep  them  around 
home  and  under  home  influence  as 
much  as  you  can.  There  is  no  greater 
comfort  to  you  in  this  life  than  a 
worthy  son  or  a  pure  daughter.  There 
is  nothing  that  brings  more  comfort  to 
a  father  or  a  mother  than  to  have  duti- 
ful children;  and  there  is  nothing  that 


brings  more  anguish  and  distress  than 
a  child  that  is  wayward  and  commits 
some  awful  crime. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  to 
ask  God's  blessings  upon  you.    I  leave 
with  you  this  day  my  testimony,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  God  lives. 
I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  God. 
I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  proph- 
et of  God.    I  know  that  this  work  is 
destined  of  God  to  roll  on  and  fill  the 
whole  earth.    Do  hot  get  discouraged, 
my  brethren  and   sisters,   no  matter 
where  you  live.  I  remember  going  down 
to  Millard  Stake  of    Zion    some  six 
months  ago,  and  the  people  were  quite 
discouraged.    Many  of  them  felt  like 
moving  away  and  going  to  some  new 
country.    I  remember  praying  while 
there  fervently  to  my  heavenly  Father 
that  He  would  send  them  rain,  and  they 
would  be  blessed  with  more  water  the 
coming  year.    Every  man  I  met  from 
Millard  Stake  for  some  time  after  I 
asked  as  to  the  conditions  there,  and 
the  same  reply  came:  "Dry  and  dusty." 
The  people  as  a  whole  offered  their 
supplications  to  our  heavenly  Father 
for  moisture,  and  I  believe  their  pray- 
ers have  been  answered.  The  very  sec- 
tions that  were  parched  most  in  this 
fair  state  of  ours,  today  have  a  good 
prospect  for  more  water  and  conse- 
quently better  crops  the  coming  season. 
In  speaking  to  some  of  the  brethren 
from  Millard  Stake  the  other  morning, 
they  told  me  that  the  earthquake  that 
visited  the  southern  portion  of  our  state 
recently,  had  increased  the  streams  of 
water,  and  the  Sevier  river  had  been 
filled  as  it  had  not  been  for  years  be- 
fore at  this  time  of  the  year.  Their 
little  reservoir  just  east  of  Deseret, 
with  all  the  water  that  reached  it  dur- 
ing the  whole  of  last  season  was  not 
filled;  but  this  season  it  was  filled  in 
eight  days,  and  the  people  have  taken 
heart  again.    I  say  to  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  even  if  things  look  gloomy 
to  you  at  times,  do  not  get  discouraged, 
but  trust  in  that  God  who  led  you  to 
this  country.    This  is  a  promised  land. 
God  will  bless  it,  and  do  not  forget  that 
he  can  increase  the  waters  and  make 
your  lands  productive.    May  the  peace 
of  God  be  with  the  people  as  a  whole; 
may  His  blessings  be  upon  the  Church; 
may  it  grow  and  increase  until  it  fills 


\ 


28, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  whole  earth,  as  has  been  predicted 
by  the  Prophets  of  God,  is  my  prayer 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 

Restoration  (if  the  Priesthood— Its  powers,  func- 
tions and  duties— Noae  exempt  from  Its  in- 
fluence and  authority. 

If  President  Lorenzo  Snow  had  lived 
until  April  3rd,  he  would  have  been  88 
years  of  age.  He  was  a  very  active, 
energetic  and  progressive  man.  He 
died  "in  the  harness,"  and  passed  into 
the  spirit  world;  and  the  great  work  of 
the  Lord  moves  on  without  let  or  hind- 
rance. I  am  sure  that  he  would  have 
been  very  happy  to  be  present  with 
us  upon  this  occasion,  to  have  listened 
to  the  testimonies  of  the  brethren,  nad 
gazed  into  the  faces  of  this  vast  con- 
gregation. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  notwithstand- 
ing the  servants  of  the  Lord  fall  from 
time  to  time  battling  for  the  truth, 
Zion  must  be  redeemed.  While  sitting 
on  the  stand  listening  to  the  discourses 
of  my  brethren,  I  have  greatly  mar- 
velled at  the  wonderful  providences  of 
the  Lord  unto  us;  for  when  He  uttered 
forth  His  voice  and  said  that  His 
Church  must  be  established  in  the 
earth  and  His  work  must  be  accomp- 
lished, He  furnished  to  the  children  of 
men  the  means  to  accomplish  it.  As 
early  as  the  year  1823,  the  Lord  made 
use  of  this  language. 

"Behold  I  will  reveal  unto  you  the 
Priesthood,  by  the  hand  of  Elijah  the 
prophet,  before  the  coming  of  the  great 
and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord." 

A  dreadful  day;  A  day  of  pestilence, 
of  famine,  of  earthquake,  of  tempests, 
and  a  day  of  burning,  designated  here 
in  very  impressive  language  as  "the 
great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord!" 
When  that  days  comes,  the  power  of 
the  Priesthood  must  be  upon  the  earth 
to  protect  and  deliver  the  people  of 
God  from  destruction;  for  the  righte- 
ous and  those  who  keep  the  command- 
ments of  God,  including  those  who  are 
tithed,  shall  not  be  burned. 

The  priesthood  has  been  restored  to 
the  earth,  and  is  composed  of  two 
grand  divisions — the  Melchisedek  and 
the  Aaronic.  The  Aaronic  Priesthood 
was  restored  to  the  earth  and  bestowed 
upon  Joseph    Smith  by  the    hand  of 


John  the  Baptist,  in  May,  1829.  The 
Melchisedek  Priesthood  was  restored 
and  conferred  upon  the  Prophet  Joseph 
in  June,  1829,  by  Peter,  James  and  John. 
The  authority  and  power  of  the  Mel- 
chisedek Priesthood  is  to  hold  the  keys 
of  all  the  spiritual  blessings  of  the 
Church,  to  have  the  privilege  of  re- 
ceiving the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom, 
to  have  the  heavens  opened  unto  us, 
to  have  communion  with  the  general 
assembly  and  church  of  the  firstborn, 
and  to  enjoy  the  communion  of  God  the 
Father  and  Jesus  the  Mediator  of  the 
new  covenant.  The  power  and  author- 
ity of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  is  to 
hold  the  keys  of  the  ministering  of  an- 
gels, and  to  administer  in  outward 
ordinances  the  letter  of  the  gospel — 
the  baptism  of  repentance  for  the  re- 
mission of  sins,  agreeable  to  the  cov- 
enants and  commandments.  Thus  we 
see,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the 
Priesthood  connects  this  Church  with 
the  heavens,  and  the  channel  of  com- 
munication is  open.  Oh!  how  weak 
indeed  would  we  be  without  this  au- 
thority; and  oh!  how  weak  indeed  are 
we  except  we  honor  it,  for  if  we  do  not 
we  come  under  condemnation.  The 
president  of  the  Melchisedek  Priest- 
hood is  a  High  Priest,  and  is  designated 
in  the  revelations  of  God  as  a  presid- 
ing High  Priest  over  the  High  Priast- 
hood  of  the  Church,  and  is  also  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church.  His  Counselors  are 
High  Priests;  and  these  three  con- 
stitute the  Presidency  of  the  Church, 
and  have  authority  over  all  its  affairs, 
to  regulate  them  throughout  the  world. 
The  president  of  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood is  a  Bishop,  who  is  called  to  pre- 
side over  the  quorums  of  the  Lesser 
Priesthood. 

Let  me  say  to  you,  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, (I  say  it  to  the  sisters  as  well  as 
the  brethren,  for  I  feel  that  it  is  a  good 
thing  for  the  sisters  to  hear  something 
regarding  the  Priesthood)  there  is  not 
a  living  soul  connected  with  the  Church 
that  is  exempt  from  the  authority  and 
influence  of  the  Priesthood;  for  the 
reason  that  the  Priesthood  holds  the 
keys  to  all  the  spiritual  blessings  of 
the  Church.  It  is  true  that  the  sisters 
do  not  receive  the  Priesthood,  but  they 
receive  its  blessings  in  connection 
with  their  husbands  and  fathers.  The 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


29 


Priesthood  continues  in  the  Church 
of  God  throughout  all  genera- 
tions, and  is  without  beginning  of  days 
or  end  of  years.  We  are  told— and  oh. 
how  impessive  is  the  thought!— that 
without  the  Priesthood  the  power  of 
godliness  cannot  be  made  manifest  to 
men,  and  without  it  no  man  can  see 
the  face  of  God  and  live.  What  a  sorry 
plight  the  world  is  in,  if  that  statement 
be  true,  that  no  man  can  gaze  upon  the 
face  of  God  and  live,  without  the 
Priesthood!  We  must  needs  take  it  to 
them;  we  must  needs  preach  the  Gos- 
pel to  them. 

In  these  two  great  Priesthoods  that 
I  have  mentioned  are  various  orders  or 
grades.  In  the  Melchisedek  Priesthood 
we  have  Apostles,  High  Priests,  Sev- 
enties and  Elders.  In  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  we  have  Bishops,  Priests, 
Teachers  and  Deacons.  So  that  every 
age  and  condition  in  the  Church  is  pro- 
vided for;  and  no  man,  be  he  young  or 
old,  is  authorized  to  exercise  authority 
in  the  Church  of  God,  except  he  bears 
some  portion  of  the  Priesthood.  Won- 
derful thing!  A  church  of  Priesthood! 
The  duties  of  these  several  orders  of 
Priesthood  are  well  and  clearly  defined 
in  the  revelations.  There  need  be  no 
confusion,  or  misunderstanding.  The. 
High  Priest  is  under  no  necessity  to 
run  to  the  Seventy  and  ask  what  his 
duty  is;  the  Seventy  need  not  go  to  the 
High  Priest  to  learn  what  he  should  do; 
and  the  members  of  the  lesser  Priest- 
hood need  not  be  uninformed  as  to  what 
their  duties  are.  God  has  laid  down 
the  rules  and  defined  the  duties  per- 
taining to  these  two  Priesthoods  so 
clearly  and  so  strongly  that  they  can- 
not be  misunderstood.  The  Apostles 
are  to  officiate  under  the  direction  of 
the  First  Presidency,  and  build  up  the 
Church  and  regulate  its  affairs  in  all 
the  world,  agreeable  to  the  covenants 
and  commandments.  The  High  Priests 
are  standing  ministers  in  Zion,  to  ad- 
minister in  spiritual  things,  and  to  be 
taught,  instructed,  and  qualified,  that 
they  may  hold  the  office  of  President  of 
Stakes,  High  Councilors,  and  other  im- 
portant appointments  in  the  Church. 
The  duty  of  the  Seventy  is  to  act  under 
the  direction  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  to 
build  up  the  Church,  to  regulate  its  af- 


fairs in  all  the  world,  first  to  the  Gen- 
tiles, and  then  to  the  Jews.  The  duty  of 
the  Elder  is  to  be  a  standing  minister  in 
Zion,  to  administer  in  spiritual  things, 
to  administer  the  sacrament,  to  baptize, 
to  lay  on  hands  for  the  reception  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  to  take  the  lead  of  all 
meetings  when  no  higher  authority  is 
present,  and  to  conduct  them  under  the 
influence  and  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
T<!o  Elder  or  High  Priest  is  to  conduct 
meetings  in  this  Church  by  any  other 
spirit  than  the  spirit  of  God.  Heaven- 
delegated  authority  to  man!  The  duty 
of  the  Bishop  is  to  preside  over  the 
Lesser  Priesthood  and  the  quorums 
thereof.  The  duty  of  the  Priest  is  to 
preach,  teach  and  expound  the  scrip- 
tures, to  baptize,  to  administer  the 
sacrament,  to  visit  the  homes  of  the 
people,  to  pray  with  them  vocally,  and 
to  teach  them  all  family  duties.  The 
duty  of  the  Teacher  is  to  watch  over  the 
Church,  to  be  with  the  Church  con- 
stantly, and  strengthen  it,  to  see  that 
iniquity  doth  not  abound,  to  see  that 
there  is  no  evil-speaking,  or  backbiting, 
and  to  preach,  teach,  exhort,  and  ex- 
pound; and  he  is  to  be  assisted  in  his 
duties  by  the  Deacon;  but  the  Teacher 
and  the  Deacon  have  no  authority  to 
baptize,  or  administer  the  sacrament. 
They  do  have  the  authority,  however, 
to  preach  the  Gospel,  to  show  forth  a 
good  example,  to  warn  the  people  and 
invite  all  to  come  unto  Christ.  There 
is  no  confusion  in  all  this  that  I  have 
told  you.  Every  duty  is  well  expressed 
and  clearly  defined  in  the  revelations. 

I  have  had  some  thoughts  relative  to 
the  great  responsibility  resting  upon 
Presidents  of  Stakes,  who  are  High 
Priests  in  the  Church,  called  to  preside 
over  the  Stakes  of  Zion.  O  how  great— 
almost  unlimited  authority,  you  might 
say,  is  exercised  by  the  Presidents  of 
Stakes,  presiding  as  they  do  over  all 
the  affairs  of  the  Stake!  Then,  how 
great  the  authority  and  responsibility 
resting  upon  the  Bishops  of  wards,  who 
are  called  to  preside  over  all  the  organi- 
zations and  Priesthood  of  the  ward!  We 
sre  sometimes  told  that  the  High 
Priests  over  there  are  not  magnifying 
their  Priesthood;  the  Seventies  over 
here  are  not  doing  their  duty;  the  El- 
ders are  slack,  and  do  not  attend  their 
quorum  meetings;  the  Priests  in  that 


30 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


ward  over  there  are  not  being  used; 
the  Teachers  fail  to  visit  the  families 
of  the  Saints,  and  the  Deacons  are 
careless  and  Indifferent.    The  question 
arises,  where  is  the    fault?  Where 
fhall  the  responsibility  be  placed?  Up- 
on the  High  Priests?    Yes.    Upon  the 
Elders?     Yes.     Upon   the  Seventies? 
Yes.   A  great  responsibility  rests  upon 
these  men  who    have    received  the 
Priesthood.    But  let  me  say  to  you, 
there  is  a  further  responsibility,  a  re- 
sponsibility resting  upon  the  presiding 
authorities  in  the  stakes  and  wards.  I 
do  not  believe  that  it  is  the  duty  of 
the  president  of  a  stake  to  spend  his 
whole  time  in  preaching  the  Gospel.  I 
look  upon  the  presidency  of  a  stake 
as  executive  officers.    You  will  find  in 
every  stake  of  Zion  scores  of  preachers, 
eloquent  men,   who  can    edify  and 
strengthen  the  people,  and  it  is  not 
needful  for  the  presidency  of  the  stake 
to  spend  very  much  time  in  preaching 
the  gospel.    But  it  is  their  duty  to  see 
that  others  magnify  their  calling;  to 
see  that  the  presidency  of  the  High 
Priests'  quorum  honor  the  Priesthood; 
to  see  that  the  presidency  of  the  El- 
ders' quorum  are  active,  diligent  and 
faithful  men,  and  to  watch  over  these 
quorums  of  the  Priesthood  and  see  that 
«very  man  does  his  duty.   Then  I  con- 
ceive it  to  be  the  duty  of  a  Bishop, 
not  so  much  to  preach  the  gospel  at 
length,  or  to  occupy  much  time  in  the 
pulpit,  but  to  be  the  executive  officer 
«f  the  ward,  to  deal  in  temporal  af- 
fairs, to  be  a  common  judge  in  Israel, 
and  to  sit  in  the  Bishop's  court  and 
adjudicate  and  regulate  the  affairs  of 
his  ward,  with  his  counselors.    It  is 
the  duty  of  the  Bishop  particularly  to 
fee  that  the  presidencies  of  the  quo- 
rums of  the  Lesser    Priesthood  are 
active  and  faithful.    Let  him  see  also 
that  the  presidencies  of  the  auxiliary 
organizations  are  faithful  in  the  per- 
formance of  their  duty.   The  great  re- 
sponsibility resting  upon  him  is  to  see 
that  others  do  their  duty,  and  let  the 
preaching  of  the  gospel  be  done  by  the 
brethren  and  sisters  of  his  ward.  Our 
Church  is  full  of  good  preachers.  Every 
man  that  bears  the  Priesthood  is  called 
to  be  a  preacher  of  righteousness,  to 
be  a  minute  man,  and  to  be  on  hand 


when  called  out  of  the  congregation.  I 
venture  to  say,  that  Prest.  Smith,  who 
presides  here,  could  find  hundreds  of 
men  in  this  congregation  who  are  elo- 
quent preachers  of  the  gospel,  well  in- 
formed men,  who  have  preached  the 
word  in  foreign  lands  with  great  power, 
and  they  could  come  to  this  stand  and 
edify  and  strengthen  the  people.  Time 
would  not  permit  of  this,  and  it  might 
not  be  appropriate  at  a  general  conr 
ference,  when  we  come  together  to  hear 
from  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  and 
some  of  the  leading  authorities  upon 
matters  of  moment;  but  the  spirit  of 
the  conference  can  be  taken  by  the 
presidents  of  stakes  and  Bishops  of 
wards  into  all  Zion. 

I  rejoice  in  this  work.  I  rejoice  in 
the  Priesthood,  and  marvel  greatly  at 
the  wisdom,  power  and  greatness  of 
the  Almighty,  and  I  must  needs  ascribe 
to  Him  the  honor  and  the  glory  for  the 
wonderful  things  that  are  being  ac- 
complished in  His  Church.  It  is  the 
Spirit  of  God,  even  the  Holy  Ghost 
working  in  the  hearts  of  the  people 
that  brings  to  pass  the  purposes  of 
Jehovah.    God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  A.  O.  WOODRUFF. 
All  who  know  the  truth  should  testify  to  It — 
Wrongfulness   of    an    unforgiving   spirit  — 
Wonderful  growth  cf  the  Church. 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  the 
desire  that  shall  prompt  my  remarks 
this  morning  to  this  congregation  will 
be  to  say  something  by  way  of  testi- 
mony to  the  divinity  of  the  mission  of 
our  Lord  and  Master,  Jesus  Christ,  to 
the  divinity  of  the  mission  of  the  Pro- 
phet Joseph  Smith,  and  in  support  of 
the  established  and  recognized  author- 
ity of  God  our  Eternal  Father  upon  the 
earth.  I  feel  a  natural  spirit  of  tim- 
idity in  standing  before  this  vast  con- 
gregation, but  I  have  an  unshaken  con- 
fidence in  God,  and  I  know  that  by  His 
help  and  the  aid  and  the  sympathy  and 
prayers  of  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
may  be  able  to  say  something  that  will 
be  of  benefit  to  the  Latter-day  Saints 
who  have  gathered  here  in  this  con- 
ference for  the  purpose  of  being  fed 
with  the  bread  of  everlasting  life.  I 
desire  to  read  to  you  a  few  verses  from 
the  39th  Section  of  the  book  of  Doc- 


ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 


31 


trine  and  Covenants.     They  are  the  are  specially  called  to  labor  in  one  of 

words  of  our  Lord  and  Master:  the  missionary  fields  we  have  not  the 

"Hearken  and  listen  to  the  voice  of  right  to  make  known  our  testimony  of 

Him  who  is  from  all  eternity  to  all  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 

eternity,  the  Great  I  Am,  even  Jesus  This  is  a  mistake.    Everyone  who  has 

Christ.  received  a  testimony  that  this  work  is 

"The  light  and  the  life  of  the  world;  of  God  is  at  perfect  liberty  to  bear  that 

a  light  which  shineth  in  darkness  and  testimony  to  his  or  her  neighbors;  and 

the  darkness  comprehendeth  it  not:  indeed,  I  feel  that  we  will  come  under 

"The  same  which  came  in  the  me-  some  degree  of  condemnation  before 

ridian  of  time  unto  my  own,  and  my  God  if  we  fail  to  do  this.    If  we  have 

own  received  me  not;  received  the  pearl  of  great  price,  let 

"But  to  as  many  as  received  me,  gave  us  not  hug  it  to  ourselves  and  say  that 

1  power  to  become  my  sons  and  even  we  do  not  want  others  to  receive  it,  for 

50  will  I  give  unto  as  many  as  will  re-  fear  it  would  diminish  our  joy  and  sat- 

ceive  me,  power  to  become  my  sons.  isfaction  to  see  them  enjoying  a  like 

"And  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  blessing.    This  is  not  the  spirit  of  the 

he  that  receiveth  my  Gospel,  receive  th  Gospel.    Every  member  of  the  Church 

me;  and  he  that  receiveth  not  my  gos-  cf  Christ,  whether  male    or  female, 

pel  receiveth  not  me.  ought  to  be  continually  anxious  that 

"And  this  is  my  gospel:    repentence  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel    shall  be 

and  baptism  by  water,  and  then  cometh  spread  to  every    creature    upon  the 

the  baptism  of  fire  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  earth.    We  are  as  a  light  set  upon  a 

even  the  Comforter,  which  showeth  all  hill,  a  beacon  to  the  world;  and  we 

things,    and    teacheth    the    peaceable  ought  not  to  hide  this  light,  but  strive 

things  of  the  kingdom."  to  let  it  so  shine    that    people  see- 

Tliis  is  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  in&  our  ffood  works  may  be    led  to 

■Christ;  and  it  is  perhaps  scarcely  prop-  glorify  God.    This  is  the  desire  that 

er  to  say  that  in  Zion  there  are  only  ,  should  prompt  us  in  our  lives.  We 

1,300  or  1,500  missionaries,  for  there  are  would  then  seek  after  eternal  riches, 

over  50,000  men  in  this  Church  who  bear  tven  the  bringing  about  of  the  salva- 

the  Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God,  and  tion  of  the  souls  of  men,  more  than  we 

there  are  over  300,000  souls    in    this  do  other  things. 

Church  that  have  their  names  upon  the  1  want  to  read  you  a  few  verses  from 

records  of  the  Church;  and  inasmuch  the  64th  Section  of  the  book  of  Doc- 

as  we  have  received  light  concerning  trine  and  Covenants: 

the  value  of  the  souls  of  men,  every  one  "Wherefore  I  say  unto  you,  that  ye 

of  those  who  have  a  standing  in  the,  ought  to  forgive  one  another,  for  he 

Church  of  Christ  ought  to  have  a  tes-  that  forgiveth  not  his  brother  his  tres- 

timony  regarding  the  divinity  of  this  Passes,  standeth  condemned  before  the 

work  in  which  we  are  engaged,  and  be  Lord,  for  there  remaineth  in  him  the 

a  witness  for  the  Church  and  for  Jesus  greater  sin. 

■Christ.    So,  instead  of  there  being  1,300  "L  the  Lord,  will  forgive  whom  I 

or  1,800  missionaries,  we  all  should  be  will  forgive,  but  of  you  it  is  required  to 

missionaries  for  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  forgive  all  men; 

Jesus  Christ;  and  indeed  no  one  who  "And  ye  ought  to  say  in  your  heart, 

bears  a  portion  of  the  Priesthood  of  let  God  judge  between  me  and  thee, 

the  Son  of  God  ought  to  be  satisfied  and  reward  thee  according  to  thy 
with  his  life's  work  unless  he  has  been  ,  deeds." 

an  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  of  I  do  not  desire,  by  reading  this,  to 
bringing  some  other  soul  to  a  knowl-  offer  any  plea  of  justification  for 
edge  of  the  truth.  We  are  told  in  this  wrong-doing;  for  the  Lord  has 
same  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  said  that  He  cannot  look  upon  sin 
that  this  is  a  day  of  warning,  and  not  with  the  least  degree  of  allow- 
ed: many  words,  when  every  man  who  ance,  neither  will  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
receiveth  the  light  and  truth  should  countenance  sin.  At  the  same  time  our 
warn  his  neighbor.  The  trouble  is,  we  mission  is  to  save  the  souls  of  men; 
not  do  this.   We  feel  that  unless  we  and  where  the  authority  of  the  Holy 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Priesthood  is  conferred  upon  men,  and 
it  has  a  right  effect  upon  them,  it 
will  make  them  more  humble  and  more 
childlike.  It  will  not  puff  them  up  and 
make  them  great  in  their  own  estima- 
tion. The  greater  the  authority  or  call- 
ing that  is  placed  upon  men,  the  more 
humble  they  should  be,  and  the 
greater  in  their  own  estimation. 
The  greater  desire  they  ought 
to  have  to  save  mankind.  The . 
whole  need  not  a  physician,  but  those 
who  are  sick.  Those  who  are  spiritual- 
ly sick  are  the  ones  that  need  the  aid 
of  the  servants  and  handmaidens  of 
God.  Those  who  know  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  those  who  know  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  sent  of  God,  those  who  have 
implicit  confidence  in  the  leadership  of 
this  Church  today,  need  no  particular 
laboring  with.  They  will  labor  for  the 
benefit  of  others,  to  bring  about  much 
righteousness,  although  they  may  not 
be  especially  commanded  to  do  so.  But 
we  want  to  look  after  some  of  those 
who  have  not  this  faith  and  this  tes- 
timony. Many  of  the  men  who  were 
the  pioneers  of  this  work,  and  who  aid- 
ed in  laying  its  foundation,  I  am  sorry 
to  say  that  some  of  their  sons  and 
daughters  have  drifted  away  from  the 
Church  of  Christ.  People  may  say  that 
these  men  devoted  so  much  of  their 
time  to  the  Church  that  they  neglected 
their  families.  Be  that  as  it  may,  these 
men  were  good  men.  They  enjoyed  the 
spirit  of  the  callings  whereunto  God 
had  called  them;  and  if  on  account  of 
their  devotion  to  the  work  of  the  Lord 
some  of  their  sons  and  daughters  are 
not  doing  as  they  ought  to  do  today, 
there  should  be  a  spirit  of  charity  and 
of  love  manifest  on  the  part  of  stake 
and  ward  officials  toward  them,  to  try 
and  bring  them  back,  and  not  to  cast 
them  off.  I  believe  as  I  believe  that  I 
stand  here,  that  in  the  resurrection  of 
the  dead,  there  will  be  some  stake  and 
ward  officials  come  under  sore  con- 
demnation before  men  that  have  stood 
as  leaders  in  this  work,  because  their 
sons  and  daughters  have  not  been 
sought  after  and  labored  with  as  much 
as  they  ought  to  have  been — where  this 
spirit  of  forgiveness  has  not  been  ex- 
hibited. No  matter  what  authority  a 
man  may  hold  in  this  Church,  it  does 


not  exalt  him  to  that  degree  that  he  is 
justified  in  not  forgiving  the  repentant 
and  those  who  desire  to  do  better,  and 
who  will  come  and  supplicate  for  for- 
giveness. Men  who  have  taken  this 
stand  will  come  under  the  condemna- 
tion spoken  of  in  the  verses  I  have 
read,  and  in  them  will  remain  the 
greater  sin.  Thank  God,  there  are  not 
many  unforgiving  men  in  this  Church; 
but  occasionally  we  have  found  men 
who  have  been  unforgi\-ing  to  those 
who  have  sinned  and  then  repented 
and  sought  forgiveness.  Where  do  you 
suppose  we  would  be  if  God  should  deal 
with  us  in  this  way.  It  is  not  right. 
f  tell  you  that  the  stake  or  ward  offi- 
cial who  will  take  this  stand  will  re- 
ceive sore  reprimanding  at  the  hands 
of  the  fathers  of  these  sons  and  daugh- 
ters that  have  thus  been  dealt  with, 
when  they  meet  them  in  the  resurrec- 
tion. An  unforgiving  spirit  is  by  no 
means  an  evidence  of  strong  charac- 
ter; it  is  quite  the  reverse.  A  man 
of  strong  character,  who  understands 
the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
would  ask  his  own  little  child  to  for- 
give him,  if  he  had  wronged  that  little 
one;  and  he  would  not  feel,  even  if  he 
had  received  some  great  calling  in  the 
Priesthood,  that  it  was  beneath  his  dig- 
nity to  go  to  the  one  he  had  w:|nged 
and  make  it  right.  As  a  result  of  this 
spirit  of  unforgiveness,  which  has  been 
exhibited  in  the  past  in  some  of  the 
stakes  of  Zion,  though,  I  am  happy  to 
say,  to  a  very  small  degree,  we  occa- 
sionally find  men  who  are  not  doing 
anything  in  the  Church,  because  they 
have  some  grievance  against  the  pres- 
ident of  the  stake  or  the  Bishop.  Can 
not  the  man  who  is  called  to  be  the 
shepherd  of  that  flock  afford  to  go  a 
little  more  than  half  way  in  order  to 
save  some  member  of  his  flock?  Can  he 
not  afford  to  go  to  the  one  who  feels 
offended  at  his  action,  although  he  may 
not  be  in  the  wrong,  and  say. 
"Brother,  I  want  to  straighten  this 
matter  out  with  you?"  But  why  is  it 
that  some  of  our  brethren, 
instead  of  doing  this,  will  feel 
like  beating  them  over  the  head  and 
keeping  them  down;  and  if  they  mani- 
fest any  desire  to  do  right  again  and 
to  take  an  active  part  in  the  Church, 
instead  of  holding  their  arms  out,  as 


ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 


33 


Christ  would,  to  welcome  them  back 
to  the  fold  as  they  should  do,  they  con- 
tinue to  drive  them  forth  and  to  cast 
them  out,  and  to  keep  them  down,  so 
that  they  never  have  any  chance  to  do 
"better;  unless  they  move  out  of  the 
confines  of  that  stake  or  ward. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  these 
thing's  all  that  is  required  of  any  man 
who  presides  over  a  stake  or  ward  is 
to  follow  the  example  of  the  men  who 
stand  at  the  head  of  this  Church.  The 
Presidency  of  the  Church  will  never 
require  anything  of  the  Presidents  of 
Stakes  that  they  would  be  unwilling 
to  do  themselves.  They  are  anxious  for 
the  salvation  of  the  souls  of  men,  and 
that  none  should  be  cast  out;  that 
those  who  are  weak  and  sore  in  their 
spirits  should  be  healed  and  brought 
back,  if  possible,  into  full  fellow- 
ship with  the  Church  of  Christ.  We 
do  not  want  to  lose  any  of  those  that 
are  committed  to  our  care.  If  God  will 
help  us,  we  do  not  intend  to  do  it.  If 
He  has  made  us  the  shepherd,  the 
watchman  upon  the  tower  of  a  Stake; 
if  He  has  made  us  the  shepherd  of  a 
ward,  or  the  watchman  upon  its  tow- 
ers, let  us  guard  that  flock  well,  and 
strive  with  all  the  power  that  God  has 
given  us  to  save  all  those  who  have 
been  committed  to  our  care.  We  spend 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  dollars  and 
give  the  time  and  the  lives  of  our  El- 
ders to  spread  the  Gospel  abroad,  and 
why  should  we  not  be  just  as  anxious 
to  save  those  at  home  who  have  drifted 
away  or  have  become  cold  in  the  Gos- 
pel? Why  should  we  not  be  just  as 
anxious  to  bring  .them  back  to  the  fold 
and  awaken  the  spirit  of  God  within 
them,  as  we  would  be  to  go  to  Japan 
or  other  parts  of  the  earth,  to  make 
the  Gospel  message  known  there?  One 
is  quite  as  important  as  tlie  other;  and 
I  am  sure  that  a  president  of  a  Stake, 
a  Bishop  of  a  ward,  or  any  other  man 
holding  a  responsible  position  in  the 
Church  will  not  feel  happy  in  the  res- 
urrection if  a  son  or  a  daughter  of  one 
of  the  prominent  men  of  this  Church, 
or  of  any  other  man,  comes  up  and 
says,  "Brother,  I  did  wrong  when  I  was 
in  the  flesh.  I  went  to  you,  as  my 
Stake  President  (or  as  my  Bishop)  and 
asked  you  to  forgive  me,  and  you 
would  not."     I  feel  that  that  man  will 


occupy  a  most  unenviable  position,  and 
will  have  sorrow  until  that  son  or 
daughter  is  saved  and  enjoys  t^at  de- 
gree of  glory  that  he  or  she  would  have 
enjoyed,  had  he  done  his  part  to  help 
the  erring  one  along  life's  pathway. 

I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  the  spread  of 
the  work  of  God.  I  rejoice  that  wher- 
ever the  Gospel  tree  has  been  planted 
it  has  not  been  uprooted,  although  our 
people  have  had  much  to  contend  with, 
and  have  had  to  perform  a  work  that 
could  not  have  been  performed  by  any 
other  people  upon  the  face  of  this  pa-th. 
Read  the  words  of  Isaiah  as  contained 
in  the  Sth  chapter  of  II  Nephi,  as  fol- 
lows: 

"Hearken  unto  me,  ye  that  follow  af- 
ter righteousness:  Look  unto  the  rock 
from  whence  ye  are  hewn,  and  to  the 
hole  of  the  pit  from  whence  ye  are 
die-ged. 

"Look  unto  Abraham,  your  father, 
and  unto  Sarah,  she  that  bear  -nm-  for 
I  called  him  alone  and  blQs?ed  him. 

"■pY>r  the  Lord  shall  comfor*  ^i^n  he 
will  comfort  all  her  waste  places:  and 
he  will  make  her  wilderness  Mv»  T^d°n, 
and  her  desert  like  the  garden  of  the 
Lord.  Jov  and  o-ladness  s'-a'1  be  f«und 
therein,  thanksgiving  and  the  voice  of 
melody." 

Are  we  not,  as  a  whole  people,  wit- 
nesses unto  God  our  E+e-n-M  Tether 
and  all  men  this  day  that  this  ^ror^hecy 
has  been  fulfilled  under  our  eyes?  It 
is  peculiar  that,  although  tM*  is  the 
chosen  people  of  God.  they  ha"0  been 
called  to  seWe  the  desert  and  barren 
spots  of  this  earth?  It  is  n»cul!ar  in 
one  sense,  and  yet  it  is  qui*e  natural 
in  another,  when  we  take  into  con~id- 
eration  that  through  the  conversion  of 
the  desert  wastes  into  gardens  and  thus 
fulfilling  the  prophecies,  the  L^rd  has 
had  a  chance  to  prove  His  people,  to  de- 
velop a  superior  type  of  manhood  and 
womanhood,  and  to  bring  out  the  best 
qualities  of  their  natures.  I  rejoice  in. 
the  work  our  people  are  performing. 
I  rejoice  that  the  Lord  has  aided  and 
befriended  us,  and  that  He  has  raised 
up  many  friends  from  those  who  are  not 
of  our  faith  to  assist  us  in  getting  our 
rights  and  to  aid  us  in  establishing  the 
Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  in  various 
parts  of  the  world.  I  rejoice  in  the 
faith  that  the  people  have  manifested' 
in  converting  these  waste  places,  in 
their  colonization  work,  and  in  the  ef- 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


feet  that  this  labor  has  had  upon  them. 
If  they  had  never  accomplished  any- 
thing by  way  of  making  homes,  they 
have  benefitted  themselves  and  been 
rewarded  for  their  labors  in  the  spirit- 
ual advancement  that  they  have  made 
while  engaged  in  such  work,  by  the  de- 
velopment of  faith  and  seeing  the  prom- 
ises of  God  fulfilled  upon  their  heads. 
And  we  are  not  through  with  this  work 
yet.  Calls  are  made  from  time  to  time 
for  our  people  to  go  to  this  or  that 
place,  and  the  only  trouble  is,  we  have 
not  colonists  enough  to  meet  the  de- 
mand. I  shall  welcome  the  day  when 
the  gathering,  without  which  the  Gos- 
pel is  not  complete,  shall  be  more 
thoroughly  carried  into  effect  than  it 
has  been  during  the  past  few  years.  It 
has  been  rather  discouraging  on  ac- 
count of  the  lack  of  labor  and  the  con- 
ditions which  have  surrounded  us,  and 
I  shall  rejoice  when  these  barriers  are 
removed  and  the  gate  shall  again  be 
open;  when  the  people  of  the  Stakes 
of  Zion  shall  exhibit  that  liberal  spirit 
which  was  exhibited  by  the  people  in 
the  early  days  here,  in  taking  in  the 
newcomer  and  assisting  to  get  him  em- 
ployment, so  that  he  might  establish 
himself  in  Zion.  We  do  not  have  as 
much  sympathy  for  the  people  who  ac- 
cept the  Gospel  abroad  as  we  ought  to 
have,  for  the  reason,  I  think  sometimes, 
that  we  forget  their  situation.  "We  for- 
get that  if  they  remain  where  they  are, 
although  they  may  be  able  to  do  much 
good  in  assisting  the  Elders  and  in 
spreading  the  Gospel,  their  children  will 
naturally  intermarry  with  those  not  of 
our  faith,  and  therefore  they  will  not 
have  the  joy  or  the  satisfaction  which 
the  Gospel  in  its  fulness  carries  with  it 
where  the  people  are  gathered  and  en- 
joy the  blessings  of  Church  organiza- 
tion. I  would  ask  the  Stake  presidents 
to  encourage  a  spirit  on  the  part  of  the 
people  to  be  willing  to  say  to  the  Pre- 
sidency of  the  Church,  "If  you  will  send 
us  ten  families  (or  twenty  or  thirty,  as 
the  case  may  be)  into  this  Stake,  we 
will  see  to  it  that  ih:y  are  aided  in  mak- 
ing homes,  so  that  they  may  establish 
themselves  in  the  borders  of  Zion."  I 
believe  that  great  good  could  be  accom- 
plished in  this  regard  by  the  Stake  pre- 
sidents and  Bishops  getting  together  to 
exchange  ideas  in  relation  to  this  mat- 


ter, so  that  there  may  be  a  more 
thorough  looking  after  the  new  con- 
verts who  come  into  the  Stakes  of  Zion, 
that  they  may  not  feel  friendless  and 
that  there  is  no  one  to  receive  or  wel- 
come them,  but  that  someone  may  look 
after  them  and  nurse  them  until  they 
are  able  to  go  alone.  If  this  is  done, 
how  grateful  they  will  be  to  us  in  after 
years.  It  may  take  some  of  our  prop- 
erty, it  may  mean  some  sacrifice  on  our 
part  to  do  it,  but  how  they  will  bless 
us  when  they  themselves  have  good 
homes  in  Zion,  with  their  sons  and 
daughters  around  them,  married  in  the 
Church  of  Christ  and  having  a  numer- 
ous posterity.  This  is  an  individual 
work  that  we  are  engaged  In.  It  is  not 
the  work  of  any  one  man,  or  any 
quorum  of  men;  the  responsibility  rests 
upon  the  shoulders  of  any  individual 
in  the  Church,  and  it  becomes  us  all  to 
feel  an  interest  in  these  things.  If  we 
will  do  this,  the  Lord  will  bless  us,  and 
He  will  make  us  happier.  We  must  not 
simply  strive  after  dollars  and  cents; 
but  let  us  do  some  good  to  others  as 
we  go  along,  by  assisting  them  to  enjoy 
the  comforts  and  blessings  which  we 
enjoy. 

I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  this  confer- 
ence. I  thank  God  that  He  has  per- 
mitted our  Brother  Grant  to  return 
home  and  visit  with  us.  His  mission 
has  been  a  success.  If  he  never  ac- 
complishes any  more,  he  has  gone  and 
turned  the  key  in  the  Gospel  door  to  the 
nation  of  Japan,  and  the  Gospel  has 
been  established  there;  at  least,  the 
seed  has  been  sown,  and  has  partially 
taken  root.  This  will  bring  joy  and 
satisfaction  to  the  many  Latter-day 
Saints  who  have  upheld  and  sustained 
him  by  their  faith  and  prayers,  just  as 
we  uphold  and  sustained  Apostle  Ly- 
man in  his  presidency  over  the  Euro- 
pean mission.  Every  Latter-day  Saint 
feels  a  personal  interest  in  the  labors 
of  these  brethren  and  their  associates 
m  the  mission  field,  as  well  as  in  every 
other  mission  president  and  every  Elder 
who  is  laboring  for  the  spread  of  truth 
upon  the  face  of  the  earth.  I  re- 
joice in  the  advancement  of  the  work 
of  God,  in  the  numerical  strength  that 
we  have  gained,  and  in  the  prosperity 
which  God  has  sent  to  us  in  answer  to 
the  prayers  of  the  people  and  in  fulfil- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON. 


35 


ment  of  His  promises  if  they  would 
obey  His  law.  I  rejoice  in  a  testimony 
of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ; 
that  I  have  a  knowledge  that  this  is 
God's  work,  and  not  the  work  of  man; 
that  I  have  a  knowledge  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  the  true  and 
living  God,  and  that  Joseph  F.  Smith 
and  his  counselors  are  the  men  that 
God  has  called  to  preside  over  this 
Church  at  this  time,  and  that  they  hold 
every  key,  every  gift  and  authority 
which  was  conferred  upon  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith;  that  this  people  have 
come  to  the  vales  of  Israel  in  fulfill- 
ment of  the  prophecies  which  Were 
made  by  the  Prophet  Joseph,  and  have 
established  villages,  towns  and  cities 
throughout  this  intermountain  region, 
and  that  the  work  will  roll  forth  until 
it  fills  the  whole  earth.  God  grant  that 
we  may  be  faithful,  in  connection  with 
our  brethren  and  sisters,  in  this  great 
latter  day  work,  that  our  hearts  may 
be  filled  with  sympathy,  and  that  our 
education  in  this  life  may  not  be  whol- 
ly of  the  head,  but  of  the  heart  also; 
which  may  God  grant,  for  Christ's  sake. 
Amen.  * 

ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON. 

My  very  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  I 
have  been  asked  to  speak  a  few  mo- 
ments in  relation  to  the  California  mis- 
sion. It  is  most  gratifying  unto  me  to 
report  that  the  same  Spirit  that  ac- 
tuates the  Saints  in  Zion  is  felt  by 
those  who  reside  in  the  state  of  Cali- 
fornia. I  do  not  know  that  there  is  a 
more  cosmopolitan  people  in  these 
United  States  than  the  people  of  that 
great  state.  They  are  liberal-minded; 
there  is  very  little  prejudice  existing  in 
their  minds;  but  there  is  an  indiffer- 
ence in  relation  to  all  things  pertaining 
to  the  Gospel  of  Christ.  They  are  a 
pleasure-seeking  people,  and  a  money- 
making  community.  But  for  that,  we 
are  received  well,  and  many  open  their 
doors  and  their  hearts  to  receive  us. 
They  say  they  believe  that  we  have 
within  our  organization  and  in  the  very 
genius  of  the  Gospel  we  teach  that 
which  will  uplift  and  benefit  mankind 
and  will  do  more  to  bring  about  the  fra- 
ternal spirit  that  characterized  the  ef- 
forts of  Christ  and  His  Apostles  than 


that  taught  by  any  other  people.  From 
a  very  few  members  some  eight  or  ten 
years  ago,  the  branches  have  increased 
in  the  largest  cities  of  the  coast  to  num- 
ber about  600  souls.  Last  year  they  paid 
a  tithing  of  upwards  of  $5,000,  and 
about  $600  in  fast  offerings.  Many  of 
them  are  desirous  of  coming  to  the 
house  of  the  Lord  to  receive  their  bless- 
ings, and  the  spirit  of  gathering  is  upon 
them,  despite  the  fact  that  we  advise 
them  to  stay  at  their  homes  and  at  their 
various  employments,  and  build  up  the 
branches  in  the  State.  It  seems,  how- 
ever, that  so  soon  as  they  have  been 
born  into  the  kingdom  by  baptism  and 
the  laying  on  of  hands  of  those  in  au- 
thority, a  yearning  and  a  longing  comes 
into  their  hearts  to  be  within  the 
Stakes  and  borders  of  Zion,  to  partake 
of  the  blessings  which  their  more  for- 
tunate brothers  and  sisters  enjoy. 

The  recent  visit  of  the  Tabernacle 
choir  to  the  coast  will  no  doubt  give  a 
wonderful  impetus  to  the  cause.  It 
has  broken  down  the  barriers  of  pre- 
judice in  the  minds  of  many,  and  we 
are  being  felt  after  and  enquired  about. 
The  secretary  of  state  and  the  mayors 
of  San  Francisco  and  Sacramento  were 
most  kind  and  courteous  in  receiving 
us,  in  keeping  open  public  buildings,  in 
guaranteeing  and  giving  us  police  pro- 
tection, and  welcomed  us  with  a  spirit 
of  fraternal  brotherhood  that  was  very 
pleasing  and  satisfactory,  I  believe,  to 
all  our  visitors,  and  especially  to  us 
who  are  laboring  in  that  state. 

Thousands  of  tourists  go  to  the  sum- 
mer land,  as  it  is  called,  to  spend  their 
winter,  and  they  enquire  after  us.  They 
hear  us  on  the  street  corners,  receive 
our  tracts,  attend  our  meetings,  and  are 
frank  enough  to  admit  that  in  the  east, 
where  they  reside,  they  would  hardly 
do  it,  for  fear  of  losing  caste;  but  many 
of  them  have  gone  home  with  a  broader 
idea  and  a  better  knowledge  of  our 
work  and  of  our  people,  and  are  more 
kindly  disposed  towards  us.  Many  of 
them,  upon  hearing  our  choir,  left  their 
addresses  in  the  east  with  the  Elders, 
saying  that  if  there  were  any  Elders  In 
their  neighborhood  they  wanted  them 
to  call,  so  that  they  might  hear  more 
of  what  little  they  had  seen  and  heard 
of  us  in  California. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  know  that 


36 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


the  Gospel  is  true,  and  that  it  is  leaven- 
ing the  whole  lump  and  modifying  the 
sentiment  of  the  Christian  world.  We 
hear  it,  we  feel  it,  we  see  it,  in  what  is 
being  said  and  done  today  upon  the 
coast,  where  their  churches  are  being 
emptied  and  their  pleasure  resorts  are 
being  filled  by  the  doctrines  of  men  as 
they  are  now  taught.  It  brings  joy 
and  satisfaction  to  my  soul  to  know- 
that  I  have  been  born  of  goodly  parents, 
and  have  received  and  do  participate 
in  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  which  will 
bring  men  to  a  full  salvation  and  an 
exaltation  in  His  presence;  and  that 
that  may  be  our  happy  lot  is  my  prayer 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 

Light  and  Truth. 
Benedition  by  Elder  Jesse  N.  Smith. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION,  2  P.  M. 

The  choir  sang: 

Glory  to  God  on  high; 
Let  heaven  and  earth  reply; 
Praise  ye  His  name. 

Prayer  by  Elder  C.  R.  Hakes  of  Mari- 
copa stake. 

Singing  by  the  choir  and  congrega- 
tion: 

Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with 
Jehovah. 

ELDER  M.  F.  COWLEY. 

Work  oc  God  not  denen^nt  upon  the  world — Thi 
only  way  to  pleasp  tho  l,o  d — We  -  hou  d  a<  t 
wtih  a  view  to  futu'ity — Parents  s  ould  be 
exemplars  10  their  children. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  very 
gratifying  to  see  so  many  in  attend- 
ance upon  this  conference,  and  I  feel 
that  there  has  been  a  pleasing  variety 
of  instructions  given  unto  us,  and  that 
it  would  be  a  good  thing  for  the  Lat- 
fer-day  Saints  as  a  whole,  and  for  the 
Priesthood  especially,  to  make  a  little 
note,  if  not  in  a  notebook,  in  their 
minds,  of  the  items  of  instruction  that 
are  touched  upon,  so  that  we  may  act 
upon  it  in  our  various  wards  and  stakes 
when  we  return.  It  is  not  in  glittering 
peneialities  that  we  accomplish  much; 
it  is  in  taking  down  the  details  and 
working  at  them  in  such  a  way  as  to 
bri.ig  good  fruits  out  of  them.  I  do 
not  remember  of  attending  a  conference 


where  I  felt  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
had  more  thoroughly  and  in  a  more 
appropriate  way  actuated  the  brethren, 
touching  upon  those  subjects  which  are 
especially  adapted  to  our  wants. 

I  have  felt  impressed  with  one  idea 
while  listening  to  my  brethren,  and 
that  is  that  the  whole  history  of  this 
work  has  gone  to  show  that  we  do 
not  need  the  help  of  the  world  to  sus- 
tain it.  I  do  not  mean  by  this  to  de- 
preciate any  kind  assistance,  sentiment 
or  support  that  may  be  accorded  unto 
us  by  honest  and  upright  men  who, 
from  time  to  time,  defend  the  rights  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  who  have 
sufficient  of  the  light  of  truth  to  see 
the  purity  and  power  of  the  doctrines 
that  are  taught  by  this  people;  but  I 
mean  to  say  that  it  all  goes  to  show 
that  God  has  established  this  great 
work,  and  that  He  has  sustained  it  in 
every  sense  of  the  word.  When  I  heard 
Brother  Smoot  this  morning  talking 
and  reading  a  little  about  the  ideas  of 
men  concerning  the  effect  of  "Mormon- 
ism,"  as  it  is  termed,  more  especially  in 
the  eastern  states,  some  of  them  en- 
tertaining the  idea  that  it  was  a  great 
menace  to  the  people,  I  thought  to  my- 
self that  the  world  had  got  the  night- 
mare. I  heard  Sol  Smith  Russell  once 
read  an  essay  on  the  horse.  He  said 
that  the  horse  was  a  noble  animal.  It 
would  live  on  oats  and  sawdust,  he 
said.  Then  he  went  on  to  describe  the 
various  kinds  of  horses  there  were  in 
existence.  He  said  there  was  the  saw- 
horse,  and  there  was  the  horse-radish, 
and  then  there  was  the  Colt's  revolver, 
and  then  there  was  the  night-mare.  He 
said,  "the  nightmare  is  a  horse  that 
is  born  in  the  night,  and  my  Aunt  Jane 
has  lots  of  them."  I  think  sectarian- 
ism has  the  nightmare  over  this  work, 
and  possibly  it  is  all  right  that  they 
should  have.  It  makes  me  feel  that 
there  are  not  only  prophets  among  the 
people  of  God,  but  there  are  some  pro- 
phets in  the  world.  I  heard  one  of  our 
local  politicians  a  few  years  ago  stand 
up  before  a  public  audience,  when  the 
question  of  dividing  on  national  po- 
litical lines  was  agitated  among  this 
people,  and  some  doubted  the  propri- 
ety of  it.  They  wanted  to  hold  the  old 
anti-Mormon  party  together,  and  more 
thoroughly  crowd  us  to  the  wall,  and 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY.  ' 


37 


use  their  power  with  the  great  parties 
of  the  nation  to  distress  and  oppress 
this  people  by  inimical  legislation.  One 
of  the  speakers  that  stood  up  to  ad- 
dress that  audience  made  this  state- 
ment: "The  Mormons  will  come  out  on 
top,  no  matter  what  you  do."  He  said 
he  did  not  believe  in  dividing  on  po- 
litical lines;  he  believed  in  keeping-  the 
hand  over  the  Mormons  just  as  long  as 
possible,  because,  said  he,  they  will 
come  out  on  top.  To  illustrate  his  pro- 
phecy he  told  an  anecdote  about  Gen. 
Mahone  of  Virginia,  and  one  of  his 
negro  slaves,  and  he  compared  us  to 
the  general  and  themselves  to  the  slave. 
He  said  this  poor  slave  had  a  dream. 
He  dreamed  that  he  died  and  went  to 
the  gates  of  heaven,  and  there  he  met 
the  Apostle  Peter.N  Peter  asked  him 
who  he  was.  "Why,"  said  he,  "I  am 
the  slave  of  Gen.  Mahone  of  Virginia." 
"Well,"  said  Peter,  "are  you  mounted, 
or  are  you  on  foot?"  "I'm  on  foot,"  he 
replied.  "Well,"  said  Peter,  "you  can't 
come  in  here."  So  the  poor 
nigger  started  down  the  steps, 
and  he  met  his  master  at  the 
bottom,  and  he  said  to  him,  "General, 
whar  d'ye  think  you're  gwine?"  "I'm 
going  to  heaven,"  said  the  General. 
"No,  you're  not,"  he  said;  "you  can't 
get  in  dar,  unless  you're  mounted." 
At  this  a  happy  thought  struck  the 
nigger,  and  he  said  to  the  General: 
"I'll  tell  you,  General,  I'll  git  down  on 
all  fours,  and  you  git  on  my  back, 
and  when  Peter  ask  you  if  you're 
mounted,  say,  yes,  and  we  both  ride 
right  in."  So  the  General  got  on  his 
back,  and  when  they  got  up  to  the 
gates  of  heaven,  Peter  asked  who  he 
was.  He  replied  that  he  was  General 
Mahone,  of  Virginia.  "Are  you  mounted 
or  are  you  on  foot?"  "I'm  mounted," 
said  the  General.  "Well,"  said 
Peter,  "tie  your  horse  on  the  outside, 
and  come  in."  This  great  politician  that 
was  opposed  to  the  Latter-day  Saints 
being  identified  with  the  national  polit- 
ical parties  said,  "They  will  walk  right 
in  whether  they  are  mounted  or  on 
foot."  And  I  thought  to  mysel".  he  has 
got  the  key  to  the  whole  thing;  he  un- 
derstands it  just  about  right.  And  why 
is  it,  my  brethren  and  sisters?  It  is 
because  God  has  established  this  work. 
I  want  to  read    just  a  little.  The 


brethren  have  been  reading  the  Scrip- 
tures, and  I  believe  it  is  all  right  to 
have  a  little  Scripture  reading  on  these 
occasions.  The  Lord  says,  as  record- 
ed in  section  1  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  that  this  is  "the  only 
true  and  living  Church  upon  the  face 
of  the  whole  earth,  with  which  I,  the 
Lord,  am  well  pleased,  speaking  unto 
the  Church  collectively  and  not  individ- 
ually." While  God  has  established  this 
work,  and  He  is  pleased  with  it  because 
it  is  His  work,  we  ought  not  to  lose 
sight  of  the  fact  that  He  is  not  pleased 
with  every  individual  in  it,  only  to  the 
extent  that  that  individual  conforms 
his  life  to  the  principles  and  spirit  of 
this  Gospel.  The  only  safe  thing  for 
a  Latter-day  Saint  is  to  be  found  in 
the  discharge  of  every  duty,  to  be  found 
absolutely  free  from  sin  and  complying 
with  every  principle,  as  far  as  possi- 
ble, that  the  Lord  our  God  has  re- 
vealed. A  great  deal  has  been  said  at 
this  conference  and  at  our  meeting  last 
night  respecting  evils  that  creep  in 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints.  While 
we  speak  of  them  from  this  stand  and 
warn  the  people,  while  President  Smith 
gives  unto  us  the  word  of  God,  it  is 
the  bounden  duty  of  the  local  Priest- 
hood in  every  stake  of  Zion  and  in  ev- 
ery ward  to  see  that  iniquity  is  rooted 
out  from  among  the  people  of  God,  that 
the  day  may  come  when  the  Lord  shall 
say  that  He  is  not  only  pleased  with 
the  Church  collectively,  but  individual- 
ly a'sc,  it  having  been,  purified  and 
sanctified  from  every  sin. 

I  started  to  tell  you  the  one  thought 
I  had  in  mind,  and  another  thought 
connected  with  it:  that  as  the  work  of 
God  has  been  established  and  pro- 
moted in  the  earth  without  the  support 
of  men,  without  their  financial  assist- 
ance, without  the  popularity  of  the 
world,  in  a  religious  sense,  so  I  say 
that  God  will  sustain  this  work  from  a 
temporal  point  of  view,  and  make  the 
Latter-day  Saints  a  united  people,  a 
peopli  of  absolute  unity  in  regard  to 
all  things,  provided  we  do  just  the 
same  in  temporal  things  as  we  have 
done  in  spiritual  things — that  is,  lis- 
ten to  the  voice  of  God,  enjoy  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  be 
guided  and  controlled  by  the  direction 
and  counsel  of  the  holy  Priesthood.  By 


38 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


doing  so  we  can  become  one  in  all 
things.  "We  ought  not  to  consider  that 
there  is  anything  of  a  carnal  nature, 
or,  if  you  please,  of  a  temporal  nature 
— something  that  pertains  in  its  effects 
to  this  life  only;  for  there  is  nothing 
associated  with  the  work  of  God  upon 
the  earth  but  has  its  effects,  not  only 
here,  but  throughout  the  countless  ages 
of  eternity.  As  we  live  near  to  God 
in  all  respects,  so  shall  we  be  entitled 
to  the  companionship  and,  according  to 
our  faithfulness,  a  greater  measure  of 
the  Holy  Spirit,  that  will  give  us  a  bet- 
ter understanding  of  the  things 
of  God,  qualify  us  to  live  nearer 
unto  God,  and  consequently  to  se- 
cure unto  ourselves  a  greater  exalta- 
tion in  His  presence.  There  is  nothing 
of  a  temporal  or  transitory  nature 
connected  with  the  work  of  God.  One 
of  the  ancient  prophets  said,  "I  know 
that  that  which  God  doeth  He  doeth 
forever."  What  He  does,  eternal  ef- 
fects are  realized  therefrom.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  made  this  state- 
ment: "Whatsoever  you  do,  you  ought 
to  do  with  an  eye  to  futurity."  It 
ought  to  be  done  with  reference  to  the 
effects  that  will  result  from  our  ac- 
tion in  the  future. 

I  was  very  much  impressed  with  a 
remark  made  by  President  Lund  af- 
fecting our  conduct  and  conversation 
in  the  presence  of  our  children,  where- 
in he  said  that  some  were  in  the  habit 
of  making  remarks  that  were  depre- 
ciatory in  their  nature  concerning 
their  brethren,  concerning  the  Bishop 
of  the  ward,  or  the  President  of  the 
Stake,  or  the  authorities  of  the  Church, 
and  some,  perhaps,  were  given  to  mak- 
ing remarks  that  were  disrespectful  to 
some  of  the  principles  of  the  Gospel, 
in  the  presence  of  their  children. 
Where  this  is  done,  it  ought  to  be  re- 
pented of  and  discontinued;  for  it  will 
have  a  telling  effect  in  the  hearts  of 
the  youth  of  Zion.  I  remember  a  most 
striking  illustration  of  this  in  the  case 
of  one  of  the  leading  brethren  in  the 
Church.  I  have  heard  him  stand  up 
time  and  time  again  and  declare  the 
word  of  God  to  the  people.  I  have  heard 
him  give  counsel  to  the  saints  of  God, 
that  they  should  never  speak  disres- 
pectfully of  the  authorities  of  this 
Church,  and  especially  in  the  presence 


of  their  children.  That  same  man  was 
guilty  of  that  which  he  warned  the 
Saints  against,  and  today  he  has  lost 
his  standing  and  posterity,  following 
the  example  that  he  practised  in  pri- 
vate but  declared  against  in  public, 
have  fallen  into  his  habits  and  disres- 
pect the  servants  of  God.  My  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  it  is  salvation  we  are 
after.  It  is  to  establish  and  ground 
our  children  in  the  faith.  We  ought 
to  live  and  labor  to  this  end,  that  they 
may  not  turn  aside,  and  afterwards  say 
they  turned  aside  because  their  parents 
set  them  a  bad  example.  You  know, 
President  Kimball  once  prophesied  to 
this  people,  and  especially  to  the  moth- 
ers, that  if  they  spoke  disrespectfully 
of  a  certain  principle  of  the  Gospel 
and  fought  against  it,  the  day  would 
come  when  their  daughters  would  turn 
aside  and  lose  their  virtue,  and  be- 
come objects  of  immorality  upon  the 
streets  of  Salt  Lake  City.  I  want 
to  say  that  that  prediction,  sorrowful 
though  it  may  seem,  has  had  its  ful- 
fillment. I  -want  to  endorse  the  in- 
structions of  my  brethren  that  we 
ought  to  look  carefully  after  the  con- 
duct of  our  children  who  are  running 
the  streets  of  Salt  Lake  City,  and,  for 
that  matter,  the  streets  of  all  the  cities 
and  towns  throughout  Zion.  I  know 
that  evil  habits  creep  in  among  us.  I 
know  there  is  an  influence  brought  to 
bear  upon  the  minds  of  the  little  ones 
to  learn  and  to  practise  evil,  which 
goes  to  destroy  their  force  of  body  and 
of  mind,  and  to  grieve  the  Spirit  of  God 
from  them.  Now,  the  responsibility 
is  especially  upon  those  who  bear  the 
Holy  Priesthood.  The  teachers  who  go 
out  to  visit  the  saints  from  family  to 
family  ought  to  be  men  endowed  with 
the  spirit  of  revelation  from  God.  They 
ought  to  study  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel,  and  to  so  live  that  they  may 
enjoy  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  in  their  instructions,  so  that 
their  instructions  may  be  understood 
and  be  attractive  to  the  children;  that 
they  should  not  go  simply  to  carry  out 
a  routine,  to  ask  certain  questions,  just 
to  be  able  to  say  that  they  have  made 
their  monthly  visit.  They  ought  to  be 
men  inspired  with  the  spirit  of  revela- 
tion from  God,  that  they  may  touch  the 
hearts  of  the  families,  and  especially  of 


ELDER  M.  W.  MERRILL. 


39 


the  children,  where  they  visit.  "While 
it  has  been  said  here  that  there  is  a 
sentiment  among  the  people,  to  some 
extent,  which  does  not  respect  the 
Priesthood,  referring  to  the  authorities 
of  the  wards  and  stakes,  and  of  the 
Church,  I  want  to  say  that  we  do  not 
respect  the  Lesser  Priesthood  as  much 
as  we  ought  to  do.  "We  ought  to  res- 
pect every  Deacon  in  the  Church,  and 
encourage  every  Deacon  to  per- 
form his  duty.  We  ought  to 
respect  every  teacher,  and  make 
him  welcome,  and  sustain  him  in  his 
administrations  in  our  homes.  I  know 
that  those  who  understand  the  Priest- 
hood best,  and  who  have  the  greatest 
respect  for  it,  are  the  men  that  will  call 
their  families  together  when  the  Teach- 
ers pay  them  a  visit,  and  will  sit  down 
and  listen  to  what  the  Teachers  have  to 
say.  When  I  was  a  boy,  in  the  Four- 
teenth ward,  with  Brother  John  W. 
Taylor'  and  other  young  men,  I  used  to 
visit  President  John  Taylor  as  a  Teach- 
er. I  used  to  visit  President  Wilford 
Woodruff  in  the  same  capacity.  I  will 
admit  that  I  was  glad  when  they  were 
away  from  home,  because  I  was  so 
frightened;  but  when  I  got  through  and 
left  the  house  I  was  glad  they  were  at 
home,  and  that  they  had  been  there 
to  receive  me  as  a  Teacher  in  his 
Church  of  Christ.  They  treated  us  with 
more  respect,  they  made  us  feel  more 
at  home,  and  they  encouraged  us  more 
in  the  discharge  of  our  duty  than  any 
families  that  we  had  to  visit  upon  the 
block.  This  was  because  they  had  the 
spirit  of  the  Gospel  and  understood  the 
responsibility  of  the  Holy  Priesthood. 
I  remember  that  many  beautiful  lessons 
I  enjoyed  on  the  principle  of  faith  came 
from  the  sweet  instructions  of  President 
John  Taylor  when  we  visited  him  as  a 
Teacher;for  when  we  would  get  through 
with  our  duties,  he  would  say,  "Now, 
boys,  you  have  been  teaching  me,  I 
would  like  to  teach  you  a  little;"  and 
he  would  tell  us  anecdotes  to  increase 
faith  in  our  minds;  tell  us  how  he  had 
asked  God  to  open  up  his  way  while  de- 
claring the  Gospel  abroad,  to  give  him 
a  little  money,  just  what  he  needed  to 
pay  for  pamphlets  or  something  of  that 
kind,  and  the  Lord  answered  his 
prayers  in  a  most  remarkable  manner. 
He  told    us    many    incidents  of  this 


character,  and  they  tended  to  create 
and  encourage  the  principle  of  faith  in 
our  hearts. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  may  God 
enable  us  to  remember  the  glorious  in- 
structions which  we  have  received;  re- 
member what  President  Smith  has  said, 
that  we  are  in  a  better  condition,  as  a 
whole,  than  ever  before.  Let  us  all  see 
to  it  that  he  shall  not  be  disappointed 
in  this  sentiment  of  encouragement  con- 
cerning this  people.  Let  us  remem- 
ber the  instructions  of  Brother  McMur- 
rin  and  the  Seventies  In  regard  to  our 
duties  and  obligations  in  the  selection 
of  missionaries  to  send  the  Gospel 
abroad  to  the  ends  of  the  earth.  Let 
us  remember  the  admonition  concerning 
our  tithing,  and  our  moral  deportment, 
and  every  obligation  that  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  enjoins  upon  us.  If  we 
do  this,  all  is  well  with  us.  Every  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  knows  that  to  be  found 
in  the  discharge  of  his  duty  makes  him 
a  happy  man,  and  when  he  is  not  in 
the  discharge  of  his  duty  there  is  an 
uneasiness  about  him  which  makes  him 
feel  that  something  is  wrong.  May 
God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters; help  us  to  keep  the  command- 
ments which  He  has  given  unto  us,  and 
to  perform  the  duties  enjoined  upon  us, 
to  be  ready  at  all  times  to  go  abroad 
and  declare  the  Gospel,  or  to  work  in  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  at  home.  The 
best  kind  of  a  Latter-day  Saint  is  the 
man  or  the  woman  that  is  ready  for  any 
kind  of  labor,  whether  at  home  or 
abroad,  and  has  no  hobby,  no  special 
desire  in  a  certain  channel,  to  the  de- 
preciation of  everything  else.  God  bless 
you.  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  M.  W.  MERRILL. 

Duties  of  the  Saints— Should  be  reminded  of  thern 
— A  prosperous  community—  Result  of  the 
blessing  of  God — Answers  to  p  ayer— About 
colonization — Importance  of  Temple  work. 

I  have  listened  with  a  great  deal  of 
interest  during  the  meetings  of  this 
conference,  and  I  believe  it  is  the  larg- 
est conference  I  have  ever  attended  in 
the  Church.  Fifty-one  years  ago  the 
9th  of  April  I  was  baptized,  when  the 
ice  was  about  three  feet  thick,  and  had 
to  be  cut  away,  and  I  have  not  lost 
interest  in  this  work  yet.  I  remember 
I  was  quite  zealous  when  I  was  first 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


baptized.  I  was  soon  ordained  a 
Priest  and  sent  out  to  teach.  I  acted 
two  years  in  that  capacity.  When  I 
came  to  this  valley  I  was  appointed  a 
Teacher  in  the  North  Canyon  ward, 
and  labored  in  that  capacity  for  eight 
years;  and  then  moved  to  Cache  val- 
ley, under  the  counsel  of  Apostles  Or- 
son Hyde  and  Ezra  T.  Benson.  I  was 
appointed  Bishop  there,  and  acted  in 
that  capacity  18  years.  Subsequently, 
I  was  appointed  to  labor  in  the  stake 
presidency  with  Brother  W.  B.  Preston 
and  acted  in  that  capacity  for  10  years 
Since  that  time  I  have  labored  in  the 
quorum  of  the  Apostles.  But  I  want  to 
say  that  there  never  was  a  time  when 
I  felt  that  I  was  really  qualified  for 
the  position  I  was  called  to  occupy. 
I  feel  the  same  way  yet.  There  is  no 
disposition  in  me  to  boast.  I  am  thank- 
ful to  the  Lord  that  I  have  been  pre- 
served in  the  Church  for  over  50  years, 
and  I  hope  to  continue  in  it  as  long  as 
I  am  alive.  I  know  this  work  is  from 
the  Lord.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  great  Prophet,  raised  up  to 
usher  in  this  last  dispensation  of  the 
Gospel.  I  had  evidence  of  this  even  be- 
fore I  was  baptized,  and  it  has  never 
departed  from  me.  I  want  to  bear  rec- 
ord to  my  brethren  and  sisters  here 
that  there  is  no  other  way  of  retain- 
ing the  spirit  of  this  work  and  the 
fellowship  of  the  Holy  Ghost  than 
through  faithfulness  and  diligence  in 
observing  to  keep  the  commandments 
of  the  Lord.  The  individual  who  will 
be  humble  all  the  day  long  and  strive 
to  keep  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord  will  never  apostatize  or  become 
dissatisfied,  but  he  or  she  will  be  pre- 
served in  the  truth,  and  by  and  by  will 
sit  down  in  the  mansions  of  the  Fath- 
er, to  enjoy  the  blessings  of  eternal  life. 
People  who  are  spiritually-minded  are 
devoted  to  the  work.  They  pay  their 
tithes  and  their  offerings;  they  go  to 
the  ward  meetings  and  to  the  stake 
meetings,  and  they  are  willing  to  de- 
vote their  time,  their  talents  and 
their  all  for  the  building  up  of  the  king- 
dom of  God  on  the  earth. 

We  have  had  credit  from  the  Pres- 
ident of  the  Church  during  this  confer- 
ence of  doing  very  well  in  paying  our 
tithing.  We  have  done  well,  there  is 
no  question  about  that;  but  let  every 


individual  ask  himself  if  he  has  come 
up  to  the  standard.  I  think  we  shall 
be  led  to  conclude  that  we  have  not 
quite  got  there  yet.  No  doubt,  a  great 
many  brethren  and  sisters  pay  their 
tithing  in  full,  and  if  they  were  to  sit 
in  judgment  upon  themselves  they 
would  not  need  to  be  judged  of  others; 
for  they  would  be  able  to  say  in  all 
sincerity,  "I  have  done  the  best  I 
could."  But  there  is  another  class  who, 
if  they  were  to  sit  in  judgment  upon 
themselves,  would  be  forced  to  say  they 
had  not  come  up  to  the  standard.  The 
Lord  expects  us  all,  as  His  servants 
and  handmaidens,  to  come  up  to  the 
standard.  He  expects  us  to  pay  our 
tithing  and  our  offerings  in  full.  The 
giving  of  offerings  is  associated  with 
the  payment  of  tithing — offerings  for 
the  benefit  of  those  immediately  around 
us  who  need  our  help,  to  obviate  the 
necessity  of  the  Bishop  having  to  make 
application  to  the  Church  for  funds  to 
support  the  poor.  If  we  were  to  observe 
this  law  strictly,  we  are  amply  able  in 
all  our  wards  to  support  the  poor.  There 
are  many  people  in  the  Church,  I  have 
discovered,  who  are  willing  to  support 
themselves  rather  than  receive  offer- 
ings, if  they  could  only  be  given  em- 
ployment. Even  the  aged  can  do  some- 
thing, unless  they  are  maimed  or  dis- 
abled; and  this  is  a  matter  for  the 
Bishops  to  look  after,  to  see  that  people 
have  employment,  as'  far  as  possible, 
and  to  encourage  the  payment  of  offer- 
ings as  well  as  tithing. 

If  tithing  is  never  mentioned 
in  a  ward  from  one  month's  end 
to  another,  neither  by  the  Bishop 
nor  the  Priests  and  Teachers,  that  ward 
will  not  come  up  to  the  standard. 
There  are  lots  of  people  who  would 
come  up  to  the  standard  if  their  minds 
were  stirred  up  by  way  of  remem- 
brance. I  am  not  one  who  believes  that 
it  is  proper  for  the  Bishop  to  be  always 
talking  about  tithing;  but  I  believe 
it  should  be  kept  before  the  people. 
They  should  be  encouraged  to  pay  their 
tithing  when  they  get  it,  and  not  wait 
till  the  end  of  the  year.  If  your  salary 
is  paid  to  you  each  month,  pay  your 
tithing  each  month.  I  want  to  bear  t 
testimony  that  that  is  the  easiest  and 
the  best  way  to  pay  tithing.  Pay  it 
when  you  get  it,  and  let  it  be  the  first 


ELDER  M.  W.  MERRILL. 


41 


thing.  .  Let  us  pay  our  tithing-  first,  and 
then  distribute  the  rest  as  far  as  it  will 
go.  If  we  will  do  this,  we  shall  find 
that  tithing  is  easily  paid;  and  when 
the  end  of  the  year  comes  we  shall  be 
glad,  and  prepared  to  settle  with  the 
Bishop  with  a  cheerful  heart. 

Take  us  as  a  whole  people,  we  are 
better  off  than  other  people,  after  all, 
though  there  are  too  many  of  us  in 
debt,  with  mortgages  on  our  homes. 
The  Lord  has  blessed  us.  He  has  bless- 
ed and  sanctified  our  land,  and  it  has 
brought  forth  in  its  strength,  in  the 
season  thereof. 

There  is  a  great  deal  of  faith  exhibit- 
ed among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
that  faith,  no  doubt,  will  increase  as 
the  Saints  grow  older  and  get  more  ex- 
perience. In  the  last  50  years  I  have 
seen  many  things  that  have  given  me  a 
great  deal  of  joy  and  increased  my 
faith.  I  have  seen  the  prayers  of  the 
brethren  answered.  I  have  seen  the 
prayers  of  little  children  answered  in 
the  homes  of  their  parents.  I  remem- 
ber a  few  years  ago  in  Cache  valley  we 
l  ad  a  drouth  for  some  years.  There 
was  very  little  snow,  and  lots  of  grass- 
hoppers to  eat  our  crops.  I  remem- 
ber Apostle  Orson  Pratt  coming  to  visit 
us.  He  went  to  every  settlement  in 
the  valley,  and  he  prayed  everywhere 
that  the  Lord  would  send  moisture  up- 
on the  mountains  and  valleys.  I  trav- 
eled with  him,  and  he  never  forgot 
this.  He  always  prayed  himself  in  the 
family  circle,  and  he  prayed  every  time 
that  the  snows  might  come.  In  fulfill- 
ment of  his  prayers  the  snows  did  come, 
s  nd  we  had  more  that  year  than  we  had 
had  for  years  before;  the  mountains 
were  filled  with  snow.  I  have  seen  evi- 
dences of  this  same  thing  recently; 
when  prominent  Elders  of  the  Church 
have  prayed  that  the  moisture  might 
come,  their  prayers  have  been  an- 
swered and  the  moisture  has  come.  I 
do  not  know  of  any  reason  why  our 
prayers  should  not  be  answered,  if  we 
will  pray  in  faith  believing,  and  not  ask 
amiss  or  for  anything  that  we  ought 
not  to  have.  Do  not  let  us  be  dis- 
couraged. This  is  the  Lord's  workT  not 
curs.  We  did  not  place  ourselves  in 
position.  None  of  you  Presidents  of 
stakes,  or  Bishops,  has  ever  sought  for 
office  or  wanted  office,  so  far  as  I  know. 


The  Lord  has  called  you  all.  He  has 
opened  the  eyes  of  our  understanding, 
that  we  have  been  enabled  to  compre- 
hend the  truth  in  part,  and  we  are  sup- 
posed to  make  some  progress.  I  have 
thought  since  coming  to  this  conference, 
that  we  are  making  improvement  all 
the  time.  I  do  not  remember  the  time 
when  we  could  see  all  the  presidents  of 
stakes  right  in  front  here  as  we  can 
now,  for  they  have  been  scattered 
among  the  congregation.  It  is  an  im- 
provement having  the  prominent  El- 
ders seated  where  they  can  hear  every- 
thing. I  have  been  reminded  of  the 
necessity  of  this  in  visiting  stake  con- 
ferences and  seeing  the  Bishops  and 
leading  Elders  scattered  among  the 
people.  This  here  is  an  ensample. 
Bring  your  leading  Elders  to  the  front, 
where  they  can  hear  and  take  part  in 
the  labors  of  the  conference.  This  is 
a  grand  thing,  and  a  sign  of  progress 
and  advancement. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  aware 
that  there  are  a  number  of  people 
among  us  who  want  to  move  some- 
where, and  they  are  asking  about  dif- 
ferent parts  of  the  country.  I  have 
brethren  enquire  of  me  frequently, 
some  since  I  have  been  here.  I  want  to 
say  this  about  it;  It  is  all  right  to  go  if 
you  are  counseled  by  the  au- 
thorities of  your  ward  or  stake,  or 
by  the  authorities  of  the  Church.  Get 
good  advice,  and  then,  if  you  go,  you 
will  feel  that  you  go  with  the  blessing 
of  the  Lord.  Do  not  let  any  of  our 
people,  no  matter  how  desirable  a  coun- 
try may  be,  run  off  on  a  tangent,  with- 
out the  advice  of  the  presiding  breth- 
ren. Go  under  the  direction  of  the 
Priesthood,  with  their  consent  and  good 
feelings,  if  you  want  to  go.  It'  may 
be  all  right  for  you  to  go  just  where 
you  want  to  go,  but  get  counsel  from 
the  brethren.  Do  not  let  us  be  running 
up  and  down  the  country  simply  to  bet- 
ter our  condition,  but  let  us  be  satisfied 
to  labor  under  the  advice  of  the  Priest- 
hood, and  if  we  will  do  so,  we  will 
come  out  all  right. 

Another  subject  I  want  to  touch  upon, 
and  then  I  will  close;  it  is  with  regard 
to  temple  work.  Brethren  and  sisters, 
do  not  forget  your  temple  work.  Do  not 
leave  your  kindred  dead  who  have 
slumbered  in  the  grave  for  years,  and 


42 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


perhaps  for  ages,  without  going  to  their 
rescue  and  giving  them  relief,  as  their 
Lord  has  ordained  and  appointed.  Here 
are  the  temples  of  the  Lord  in  this 
state,  wherein  you  may  go  and  admin- 
ister for  your  kindred  that  have  passed 
away.  Do  not  be  so  swallowed  up  in  the 
cares  of  the  world  that  you  will  neg- 
lect your  kindred  dead,  because  we  will 
meet  them  by  and  by,  and  we  will  have 
remorse  and  sorrow  if  we  have  not  done 
what  we  could  for  them.  Remember 
this,  and  talk  of  it  in  your  homes.  Let 
us  prepare  our  records  and  labor  in  the 
interest  of  our  friends  who  have  passed 
away.  Of  course,  the  people  are  doing 
very  nicely  in  this  matter;  but  there 
are  many  that  have  not  given  it  consid- 
eration yet. 

God  bless  you.  Let  us  be  true,  faith- 
ful, and  humble;  let  us  attend  to  our 
prayers  in  the  morning  and  evening, 
invoking  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  upon 
us  and  upon  our  brethren.  Pray  for 
your  Bishops  and  Presidents  of  Stakes; 
pray  for  the  authorities  of  the  Church, 
that  they  may  be  guided  by  the  inspir- 
ation that  comes  from  God,  so  that  all 
may  be  well  and  prosperous  with  Israel. 
God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 

Graduation  in  the  gospel-Blessings  the  result  of 
obedience  to  law. 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  pray 
that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  direct 
me  in  all  that  I  shall  say,  even  that 
Spirit  of  truth  and  righteousness  which 
comes  from  our  heavenly  Father.  I  de- 
sire to  bear  testimony  to  all  that  I 
have  heard  during  this  conference.  I 
was  very  much  impressed  with  a  re- 
mark made  by  President  Smith,  testify- 
ing that  the  people  were  more  faithful 
and  were  performing  their  duties  a  lit- 
tle better  today  than  they  were  several 
years  ago.  There  is  no  one  so  well 
qualified  to  judge  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  in  the  aggregate  as  President 
Smith.  What  impressed  me  particular- 
ly about  his  remarks  was  the  statement 
that  the  growth  was  a  gradual  one.  It 
made  me  think  of  the  word  of  the  Lord 
unto  the  Prophet  Nephi,  when  He  said, 
"I  will  give  you  line  upon  line,  and  pre- 
cept upon  precept,  here  a  little,  and 
there  a  little,  that  you  may  know  my 


mind  and  will  concerning  all  things." 
When  we  plant  a  tree  in  the  garden, 
though  we  should  stand  by  it  day  and 
night  we  could  not  perceive  its  growth, 
because  it  is  so  gradual;  but  go  to  that 
tree  at  the  end  of  six  months  or  a  year 
and  you  will  find  that  it  has  made  re- 
markable development;  and  so  on  year 
after  year  until  the  tree  is  fully  ma- 
tured. 

I  feel  strongly  impressed  in  my  re- 
marks to  touch  a  little  upon  the  import- 
ance of  having  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
with  us  day  by  day,  to  perform  the  du- 
ties of  the  day.  While  that  which  we 
are  doing  may  not  appear  to  be  of  any 
great  importance  at  the  time,  it  will  be 
very  evident  at  the  end  of  a  term  of 
months  or  years  that  we  have  made 
marked  progress.  Like  the  tree,  the 
growth  will  have  been  gradual.  I  de- 
sire to  read  some  scripture,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  to  show  you  how  our 
Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  attained 
the  perfection  which  He  reached  dur- 
ing His  lifetime.  I  will  read  from  the 
93rd  section  of  the  book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants : 

"1.  Verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord,  it 
shall  come  to  pass  that  every  soul  wh» 
forsaketh  his  sins  and  cometh  unto 
me,  and  calleth  on  my  name,  and  obey- 
eth  my  voice,  and  keepeth  my  com- 
mandments, shall  see  my  face  and 
know  that  I  am, 

"2.  And  that  I  am  the  true  light 
that  lighteth  every  man  that  cometh  in- 
to the  world; 

"3.  And  that  I  am  in  the  Father,  and 
the  Father  in  me,  and  the  Father  and: 
I  are  one: 

"4.  The  Father  because  he  gave  me 
of  his  fullness,  and  the  Son  because  I 
was  in  the  world  and  made  flesh  my 
tabernacle,  and  dwelt  among  the  sons 
of  men. 

"5.  I  was  in  the  world  and  received 
of  my  Father,  and  the  works  of  Him 
were  plainly  manifest; 

"6.  And  John  saw  and  bore  record  of 
the  fullness  of  my  glory,  and  the  full- 
ness of  John's  record  is  hereafter  to  be 
revealed: 

"7.  And  he  bore  record,  saying,  I  saw 
his  glory  that  he  was  in  the  beginning 
before  the  world  was; 

"8.  Therefore  in  the  beginning  the 
Word  was,  for  he  was  the  Word,  even 
the  messenger  of  salvation, 

"9.  The  light  and  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world;  the  Spirit  of  truth,  who 
came  into  the  world,  because  the  world' 
was  made  by  him,  and  in  him  was  the 
life  of  men  and  the  light  of  men. 

"10.  The  worlds  were  made  by  him: 
men  were  made  by  him:  all  things 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 


43 


were  made  by  him,  and  through  him, 
and  of  him. 

"11.  And  I,  John,  bear  record  that  I 
beheld  his  glory,  as  the  glory  of  the 
Only  Begotten  of  the  Father,  full  of 
grace  and  truth,  even  the  Spirit  of 
truth,  which  came  and  dwelt  in  the 
flesh,  and  dwelt  among  us. 

"12.  And  I,  John,  saw  that  he  re- 
ceived not  of  the  fulness  at  the  first, 
but  received  grace  for  grace: 

"13.  And  he  received  not  of  the  full- 
ness at  first,  but  continued  from  grace 
to  grace,  until  he  received  a  fullness." 

It  is  this  last  verse  which  I  desire  to 
emphasize,  setting  forth  the  fact  that 
Jesus  Christ  received  not  a  fulness  of 
glory  at  first,  but  He  received  grace  for 
grace.  It  is  in  this  way,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  we  shall  receive  a  ful- 
ness. It  will  not  come  all  in  a  day,  nor 
all  in  a  month,  nor  all  in  a  year;  but  it 
will  come  as  the  reward  of  the  right- 
eous, through  faith  and  diligence  in 
keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord, 
at  the  end  of  our  career  upon  the  earth, 
when  we  shall  be  brought  before  the 
judgment  seat  of  Christ,  to  be  rewarded 
or  condemned,  according  to  the  deeds 
done  in  the  body. 

"14.  And  thus  he  was  called  the  Son 
of  God,  because  he  received  not  of  the 
fulness  at  the  first. 

"15.  And  I,  John,  bear  record,  and  lo, 
the  heavens  were  opened,  and  the  Holy 
Ghost  descended  upon  him  in  the  form 
of  a  dove,  and  sat  upon  him,  and  there 
came  a  voice  out  of  heaven  saying, 
This  is  my  beloved  Son. 

"16.  And  I,  John,  bear  record  that  he 
received  a  fullness  of  the  glory  of  the 
Father; 

"17.  And  he  received  all  power,  both 
in  heaven  and  on  earth,  and  the  glory 
of  the  father  was  with  him,  for  he 
dwelt  in  him. 

"18.  And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that 
if  you  are  faithful  you  shall  receive 
the  fullness  of  the  record  of  John. 

"19.  I  give  unto  you  these  sayings 
that  ye  may  understand  and  know  hffw 
to  worship,  and  know  what  you  wor- 
ship, that  you  may  come  unto  the  Fath- 
er in  my  name,  and  in  due  time  receive 
of  his  fulness, 

"20.  For  if  you  keep  my  command- 
ments you  shall  receive  of  his  fulness, 
and  be  glorified  in  me  as  I  am  in  the 
Father;  therefore,  I  say  unto  you,  you 
shall  receive  grace  for  grace." 

In  other  words,  we  shall  receive 
strength  according  to  our  day,  and  the 
Lord  will  bless  us  with  wisdom  per- 
taining to  all  things  committed  to  our 
care,  according  to  our  faithfulness  in 
keeping  His  commandments;  for  we  are 


told,  in  a  revelation  contained  in  this 
great  book  of  revelation  given  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  the  Priest- 
hood is  inseparably  connected  with  the 
powers  of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers 
of  heaven  can  only  be  controlled  upon 
the  principles  of  righteousness. 

I  desire  to  draw  your  attention  to  a 
peculiar  characteristic  of  our  Lord  and 
Savior  Jesus  Christ.  I  never  remember 
of  reading  where  our  Lord  and  Savior 
ever  made  a  promise  unto  the  children 
of  men  without  giving  with  it  a  law  for 
them  to  obey  in  order  to  obtain  the 
blessing,  and  he  always  placed  the  law 
first  and  the  blessing  after;  and  thus 
you  can  see  how  the  powers  of  heaven- 
are  inseparably  connected  with  the 
Priesthood,  Jesus  being  the  great  High- 
Priest.  To  illustrate  what  I  say,  let  me 
quote  a  little  from  the  5th  chapter  of 
Matthew.    Jesus  said: 

"Blessed  are  they  which  do  hunger 
and  thirst  after  righteousness;  .for  they 
shall  be  filled  with  the  Holy  Ghost." 

Here  is  a  condition,  a  law  to  be 
obeyed,  namely,  that  we  shall  hunger 
and  thirst  after  righteousness;  and  the 
promise  is,  we  shall  be  filled  with  the 
Holy  Ghost.  In  the  holy  Bible  it  says, 
"for  they  shall  be  filled;"  but  the  more 
perfect  translation,  as  given  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  is,  "Blessed  are  they 
who  do  hunger  and  thirst  after  right- 
eousness, for  they  shall  be  filled  with 
the  Holy  Ghost." 

Again,  He  says: 

"Blessed  are  the  peacemakers;  for 
they  shall  be  called  the  children  of  God. 

"Blessed  are  the  poor  in  spirit;  for 
their's  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven." 

He  gave  many  laws,  and  many  bless- 
ings He  promised  unto  the  people 
through  their  obedience  to  those  laws. 
Take,  for  instance,  the  case  of  the  rich 
young  man  who  came  to  Jesus  and 
wanted  to  know  what  he  should  do  to 
be  saved.  Jesus  told  him  to  keep  the 
commandments.  The  young  man  re- 
plied, "All  these  things  have  I  kept 
from  my  youth  up:  what  lack  I  yet?" 
Jesus  said,  "If  thou  will  be  perfect,  go- 
and  sell  that  thou  hast,  and  give  to 
the  poor,  and  thou  shalt  have  treasure 
in  heaven:  and  come  and  follow  me." 
The  young  man  turned  away  sorrowful, 
"for  he  had  great  possessions."  The 
same  principle  is  manifest  in  the  Ten 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Commandments.  Take,  for  example,  the 
fifth  commandment:  '-'Honor  thy  father 
and  thy  mother:  that  thy  days  may  be 
long  upon  the  land  which  the  Lord  thy 
God  giveth  thee."  This  is  a  law  of  long 
life.  If  you  wish  to  live  a  long  time, 
my  young  brethren  and  sisters,  honor 
and  obey  your  fathers  and  mothers, 
and  the  Lord  will  bless  you  with  this 
desire  of  your  heart;  but  if  you  dis- 
obey your  parents,  you  are  not  entitled 
to  a  long  life;  you  are  not  entitled  to 
the  blessings  of  God  upon  you  and  up- 
on your  posterity.  On  the  contrary, 
the  Lord  says  in  another  of  the  com- 
mandments, that  He  visits  "the  iniquity 
of  the  fathers  upon  the  children  unto 
the  third  and  fourth  generation  of  them 
that  hate  me." 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
rejoice  in  being  present  with  you  today. 
I  am  glad  to  see  you  congregated  to- 
gether to  receive  the  word  of  God  from 
His  servants,  and  I  have  greatly  re- 
joiced in  the  remarks  that  have  been 
made.  I  am  going  to  take  the  liberty  of 
reading  a  little  more  before  I  close: 

"21.  And  now,  verily  I  say  unto  you, 
I  was  in  the  beginning  with  the  Father, 
and  am  the  first-born; 

"22.  And  all  those  who  are  begotten 
through  me  are  partakers  of  the  glory 
of  the  same,  and  are  the  church  of 
the  first-born. 

"22.  Ye  were  also  in  the  beginning 
with  the  Father;  that  which  is  Spirit, 
even  the  Spirit  of  truth, 

"24.  And  truth  is  a  knowledge  of 
things  as  they  are,  and  as  they  were, 
and  as  they  are  to  come; 

"25.  And  whatsoever  is  more  or  less 
than  this,  is  the  spirit  of  that  wicked 
one  who  was  a  liar  from  the  beginning. 

"26.  The  Spirit  of  truth  is  of  God.  I 
am  the  Spirit  of  truth,  and  John  bore 
record  of  me,  saying— He  received  a 
fulness  of  truth,  yea,  even  of  all  truth, 

"27.  And  no  man  receiveth  a  fulness 
unless  he  keepeth  his  commandment?. 

"28.  He  that  keepeth  his  command- 
ments receiveth  truth  and  light,  until 
he  is  glorified  in  truth  and  knoweth  all 
things. 

"29.  Man  was  also  in  the  beginning 
with  God.  Intelligence,  or  the  light  of 
truth,  was  not  created  or  made,  neither 
indeed  can  be. 

"30.  All  truth  is  independent  in  that 
sphere  in  which  God  has  placed  it,  to 
act  for  itself,  as  all  intelligence  also, 
otherwise  there  is  no  existence. 

"31.  Behold,  here  is  the  agency  of 
man,  and  here  is  the  condemnation  of 
man,  because  that  which  was  from  the 
beginning  is  plainly  manifest  unto 
them,  and  they  receive,  not  the  light. 


"32.  And  every  man  whose  spirit  re- 
ceiveth not  the  light  is  under  condem- 
nation, 

"33.  For  man  is  spirit.  The  elements 
are  eternal,  and  spirit  and  element,  in- 
separably connected,  receiveth  a  fulness 
of  joy; 

"34.  And  when  separated,  man  can- 
not receive  a  fullness  of  joy. 

"35.  The  elements  are  the  tabernacle 
of  God;  yea,  man  is  the  tabernacle  of 
God,  even  temples;  and  whatsoever 
temple  is  defiled,  God  shall  destroy  that 
temple." 

I  desire  now  to  testify  unto  you  that 
I  know  if  you  will  keep  the  command- 
ments of  God  the  Spirit  of  the  Lbrd 
will  increase  within  you,  and  you  will 
have  grace  for  grace,  day  by  day  and 
year  by  year,  as  it  shall  be  necessary  in 
your  endeavors  to  keep  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord. 

I  wish  to  say  a  word  or  two  to  our 
brethren  the  Patriarchs.  I  would  feel  it 
to  be  a  good  thing  when  they  place 
their  hands  upon  the  heads  of  this  peo- 
ple to  bless  them,  if  they  shall  feel  so 
impressed,  to  conclude  their  blessings 
something  like  this:  "I  seal  these  bless- 
ings upon  your  head,  according  to  your 
faith  and  your  diligence  in  keeping  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord."  The  Pa- 
triarchs have  the  gift  of  being  proph- 
ets, seers  and  revelators,  to  reveal  the 
mind  and  will  of  God  and  portray  unto 
the  faithful  their  future  lives,  and  I 
believe  it  would  be  pleasing  unto  the 
Lord  if  they  would  seal  all  blessings 
that  they  give  in  a  manner  similar  to 
the  one  I  have  suggested,  as  they  shall 
be  led  by  the  Holy  Spirit.  Then  there 
can  be  no  disappointment  on  the  part 
of  the  family  or  friends  of  those  who 
shall,  after  receiving  a  patriarchal 
blessing,  turn  from  the  truth  and  fight 
against  God;  for  they  will  see  that 
these  blessings  are  conditional  upon 
their  keeping  the  commandments  of 
God. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  bless  every  man  who 
shall  speak  at  this  conference,  that  he 
may  speak  by  the  gift  and  power  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  and  that  we  may  re- 
ceive light  and  knowledge  and  be  fed 
with  the  bread  of  life,  that  we  may  be 
filled  with  joy  and  peace,  and  that  our 
determination  may  be  to  serve  God  and 
keep  His  commandments. 

I  desire  to  add  a  testimony  to  what 


ELDER   HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


45 


Elder  Smoot  has  said  in  reference  to 
Elder  B.  H.  Roberts  going  to  Chicago 
to  attend  the  Congress  of  Religions,  and 
being  rejected  by  them.  What  did  they 
do  when  Jesus  Christ  came  in  the  meri- 
dian of  time?  All  the  sectarian  world 
turned  against  Him.  He  said  that  the 
builders  had  rejected  the  chief  stone  of 
the  corner.  When  they  rejected  Elder 
Roberts  in  that  Congress  of  Religions, 
they  rejected  the  chief  stone  of  the  cor- 
ner; for  the  cornerstone  of  the  kingdom 
of  God  has  been  laid,  and  the  building 
will  be  completed,  according  to  the 
mind  and  will  of  God.  Zion  will  spread 
from  state  to  state,  and  from  nation  to 
nation,  until  this  Gospel,  which  was  re- 
vealed unto  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
will  be  preached  unto  all  nations,  all 
kindreds,  all  tongues,  and  all  people; 
and  out  of  every  nation  God  will  bring 
the  honest  in  heart  up  to  the  land  of 
Zion,  that  they  may  be  redeemed,  and 
that  they  may  redeem  their  dead;  for 
the  day  is  coming,  and  now  is,  as  we 
are  told  in  the  scriptures,  when  they 
that  are  dead  shall  hear  His  voice. 
Men  will  hear  His  voice,  for  His  com- 
ing is  near  at  hand.  I  know  that  our 
Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  lives,  and 
that  He  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
and  that  through  the  shedding  of  His 
blood  and  the  atonement  He  offered  up 
for  the  sins  of  the  world  all  mankiiTd 
may  be  saved  through  obedience  to  the 
laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel.  God 
bless  you,  and  sanctify  this  testimony 
to,  your  good,  as  well  as  all  that  you 
have  heard  and  may  hear  during  this 
conference,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

The  Japanese  mission — First  converts  in  that 
nation — Evidences  of  sincerity  and  devotion- 
Other  applications  for  baptUm — A  wonderful 
work  anticipated — Co-  dilion  i  f  the  people— 
A  valiant  and  able  defender  of  the  Saints. 

I  am  very  much  pleased  indeed  to  be 
present  at  this  conference.  I  have  re- 
joiced beyond  my  power  to  tell  in  lis- 
tening to  the  testimonies  of  those  who 
have  spoken  thus  far.  I  do  not  know 
whether  I  can  occupy  the  balance  of  the 
time  this  afternoon  or  not.  I  find  that 
I  cannot  take  a  long  breath  without 
its  paining  me  in  my  lungs.  Whether 
it  is  the  change  from  the  sea  level  to 


this  high  country  I  do  not  know.  I  am 
feeling  very  well  indeed,  and  unless  I 
try  to  take  a  long  breath  I  am  in  no 
pain.  I  desire,  however,  to  mingle  my 
voice  with  the  voices  of  my  brethren, 
and  to  give  you  my  testimony  as  to  my 
knowledge  of  the  divinity  of  the  work 
in  which  we  are  engaged. 

As  I  remarked  last  night  at  the 
Priesthood  meeting,  I  hesitated  for 
some  little  time,  after  the  spirit  came 
upon  me  to  attend  this  conference,  be- 
fore writing  for  permission  to  do  so. 
I  thought  my  desires  might  be  miscon- 
strued, and  that  there  would  perhaps 
be  a  feeling  that  I  was  homesick  and 
desired  to  shirk  the  responsibilities 
resting  upon  me  in  a  far-off  land;  but 
after  having  once  thought  of  the  idea, 
of  being  with  you  and  partaking  of 
the  spirit  of  this  conference,  I  could 
not,  hard  as  I  tried,  get  rid  of  the  de- 
sire to  come.  I  finally  wrote  the  let- 
ter, and  when  it  reached  here  permis- 
sion was  given  to  me.  Although  I 
have  had  to  travel  a  little  over  seven 
thousand  miles  to  come  to  this  confer- 
ence, I  am  glad  to  be  here,  and  I  was 
happy  when  the  word  came  that  I  was 
to  have  this  privilege.  Only  those  who 
have  been  in  the  habit  of  feasting  on 
the  teachings  of  the  servants  of  God 
under  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of 
God  from  their  childhood  up,  and  have 
ever  been  meeting-goers,  can  appreci- 
ate how  hungry  I  became  to  listen  to 
the  servants  of  the  Lord,  when  I  tell 
you  that  for  eight  months  I  did  not 
have  this  privilege,  except  in  the  little 
council  meetings  held  with  my  asso- 
ciates upon  our  mission  in  Japan. 

Knowing  that  the  people  will 
be  interested  to  hear  from  that 
country  and  from  my  associates,  I 
desire  to  say  that  Elders  Ke'sch,  En- 
sign and  Taylor  are  well,  that  they  are 
faithful,  diligent  and  true  men,  and 
that  we  have  been  excee Singly  happy 
from  the  time  we  reached  our  fleli  of 
labor— in  fact,  from  the  time  we  were 
called— until  my  departure  from  that 
land.  I  am  pleased  to  tell  you  that 
I  had  letters  from  them  ye  ter.'ay, 
written  ten  days  after  my  derartu-e, 
and  they  are  well.  They  tell  me 
that  the  two  men  whom  we  tap  ized 
and  ordained  Elders  are  meeting  v,  ith 
them  constantly,     studying  very  dili- 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


gently,  and  making  memoranda  to  as- 
sist them  in  defending  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel.  In  one  of  the  letters, 
Brother  Ensign  refers  to  a  man  by  the 
name  of  Gaburo  Kikuohi,  the  second 
convert,  and  to  his  exclaiming  in  an 
impulsive  manner  every  once  in  awhile, 
"That  is  true,  the  Bible  says  so,"  as 
he  is  reading  and  studying  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel;  and  Brother  En- 
sign, after  making  this  remark,  says, 
"Can't  you  hear  him?"  and  I  can  al- 
most, because  I  know  how  he  would 
explode,  so  to  speak,  all  the  time  we 
were  teaching  him  prior  to  his  bap- 
tism. This  man  for  a  number  of  years 
■has  separated  himself  from  the  Chris- 
tian sect  to  which  he  belonged,  because, 
he  said,  they  did  not  teach  the  Bible, 
and  he  has  been  teaching  the  people 
the  truths  of  the  Bible  in  the  parks 
in  the  city  of  Tokio,  having  audiences 
of  from  500  to  1,500  people.  He  seems 
to  be  a  very  sincere,  determined  man, 
and  I  have  enjoyed  my  conversations 
with  him.  The  day  I  baptized  him, 
before  attending  to  that  ordinance,  I 
told  Brother  Kelsch  to  try  to  discour- 
age him  from  becoming  a  member  of 
the  Church,  and  that  I  would  do  the 
same,  because  I  told  him  I  desired  him 
to  study  more  and  to  comprehend 
more  before  he  was  baptized.  But  it 
seemed  that  with  all  the  words  of  dis- 
couragement that  Brother  Kelsch  and 
I  could  utter,  he  was  determined  to 
be  baptized.  He  came  to  the  hotel  be- 
fore I  was  out  of  bed  in  the  morning 
and  insisted  upon  baptism.  When  I 
told  him  that  he  had  better  study  more 
and  get  a  better  comprehension  of 
the  Gospel,  he  said,  "It  is  true, 
I  believe  it,  I  want  to  be  baptized,  and 
I  can  understand  it  better  after  I  have 
been  baptized  and  confirmed  a  member 
of  the  Church."  I  knew  this  was  true; 
so  I  told  him  he  would  be  persecuted, 
and  he  quoted  the  scripture,  "Blessed 
are  ye,  when  men  shall  revile  you,  and 
persecute  you,  and  shall  say  all  man- 
ner of  evil  against  you,  falsely,  for  my 
sake."  Brother  Kelsch  and  I  went 
on  in  this  line,  trying  to  discourage 
this  man.  I  referred  to  the  drivings  of 
our  people,  to  the  killing  of  the  Proph- 
et Joseph  Smith  and  his  brother  Hy- 
rum,  and  to  the  fact  that  many  men 


had  to  give  up  their  lives  for  the  truth; 
and  I  wanted  him  to  be  thoroughly 
converted.  He  said,  "It  is  true;  and  if 
I  die  and  am  the  first  martyr  in  Japan, 
it  would  be  the  best  thing  that  could 
happen  to  Japan."  "That's  enough," 
I  said,  "I'll  baptize  you." 

I  have  the  assurance  in  my  soul  that 
there  is  to  be  a  wonderful  work  ac- 
complished in  Japan;  that  there  will  be 
many,  yea,  even  thousands  of  that 
people  that  will  receive  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  We  have  made  no  ef- 
fort whatever  to  try  and  baptize  peo- 
ple. Many  have  come  and  applied  for 
baptism — ten  young  men  at  one  time; 
many  have  written  us  letters  and  asked 
to  be  baptized  into  the  Church;  but  we 
have  realized  that  they  did  not  under- 
stand the  Gospel,  and  we  had  no  de- 
sire to  baptize  and  seal  the  Holy  Ghost 
upon  a  person  who  would  be  likely  to 
lose  the  Spirit  and  turn  around  and 
fight  the  Church.  We  have  had  no 
desire  whatever  to  baptize  people  just 
to  make  a  showing.  We  prayed  ear- 
nestly every  day  for  the  guidance  of 
the  Spirit  of  God.  We  fasted  and 
prayed  often.  We  had  a  delightful 
time.  Time  passed  very  pl^a'-antly 
and  did  not  hang  upon  our  hand3.  I 
never  spent  an  hour  in  sightseeing.  I 
did  make  one  little  trip  through 
the  country,  on  the  cars,  to  get  some 
knowledge  of  it;  but  I  never  went  away 
for  the  sake  of  seeing  the  sights  jnd 
enjoying  myself  in  that  city.  I  was 
busy  all  the  time,  talking  with  those 
that  called  upon  me,  answering  letters, 
and  in  studying  the  language.  The  Lord 
granteth  unto  men  according  to  their 
desires,  whether  it  be  for  life  or  death, 
joy  or  remorse  of  conscience;  and  the 
only  desire  that  I  had  was  to  fulfill  my 
duty  in  that  land  from  day  to  day,  and 
if  I  should  return  after  three  or  live 
years  without  converting  or  baptizing 
one  soul  I  would  be  satisfied.  However, 
I  have  been  exceedingly  grateful  ».o  my 
Heavenly  Father  that  He  saw  fit  to  im- 
press with  His  Spirit  a  couple  of  men 
who,  I  believe,  are  honest.  They  may 
not  prove  faithful,  but  I  believe  lhey 
are  honest  today.  The  other  man  was 
a  Shinto  priest,  who  could  not  speak 
a  word  of  English,  and  we  had  to  talk 
to  him  through  an  interpreter.  This 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


47 


man  was  cast  out  from  his  congregation 
of  1,500  by  his  superiors,  and  told  that 
he  would  be  reinstated  in  his  office, 
provided  he  quit  calling  upon  the 
"Mormons."  He  said,  "I  believe  that 
there  is  some  truth  with  them;  I  am 
not  yet  convinced,  but  I  will  not  stop 
calling  on  them."  Finally  he  was  cast 
out.  He  continued  to  call  upon  us,  and 
was  baptized. 

In  that  country  it  is  very  difficult  for 
a'  person  to  earn  much  money.    It  is 
incomprehensible    to   me    how  people 
-can  live  and  clothe  themselves  and  ap- 
parently be  well  and  healthy,  on  the 
limited  amount   of   money   that  they 
make.     You  can  hire  hundreds,  and 
even  thousands  of  men  that  are  mar- 
ried and  have  children,  for  15  yen  a 
month,  which  is  $7.50  in  our  money, 
.and  they  will  live  on  that  amount.  You 
can  hire  a  man  to  carry  you  around  in 
one  of  their  vehicles  (jinrikishas,  they 
call  them),  and  that  man  will  work  for 
you,  if  you  buy  your  own  vehicle,  for 
15  yen  a  month.    True,  there  are  men 
that  get  20  yen,  because  they  are  super- 
ior runners,  and  there  are  others  that 
will  get  as  high  as  25,  because  they  are 
very  swift  in  running,  but  you  can  get 
a  man  that  will  trot  along  three  or 
four  hours  at  a  stretch,  for  15  or  20 
yen  a  month!     He  must    get  enough 
food  to  eat,  or  I  do  not  think  he  could 
stand  it.    It  is  remarkable  to  me  the 
industry  and  the  frugality  of  that  peo- 
ple, and  the  way  they  get  along.   I  saw 
perhaps  half  a  dozen  beggars  all  the 
time  I  was  there.    In  the  crowded  city 
of  Tokio  I  never  saw  but  two  beggars 
and       they       were      afflicted  with 
leprosy,       lying      on      the  ground 
by  a  bridge.    It  is  a  city  of  2,000,000  of 
people,  and  I  traveled  around  many, 
many  hours,  and  they  were  the  only 
beggars  I  saw.    The  people  are  almost 
like  bees  in  a  hive,  and  they  all  seem 
to  be  busy.    They  are  a  very  remark- 
able people,  and  I  feel  to  say  to  you 
that  I  believe  and  know  that  God  will 
do  a  mighty  work  in  that  land.  The 
Lord  has  raised  up  friends  to  us.  Many 
influential  men  have  called  and  visited 
with  me.   I  am  told  that  a  certain  man 
there  by  the  name  of  Goro  Takahashi  is 
by  far  the  strongest  writer  in  defense 
of  Christianity  in  the  nation  of  Japan. 
This  man,  before  I  ever  met  him.  wrote 


an  article  in  one  of  the  leading  maga- 
zines of  Japan  in  which  he  criticized 
the    newspapers    and    the    people  of 
Japan,     for     opposing     the  "Mor- 
mon" religion.    My  interpreter  inter- 
preted this  for  me,  and  I  afterwards 
read  it  to  the  man.    He  laughed,  and 
said,  "He  has  not  interpreted  my  ar- 
ticle."   He  said,  "The  very  first  line 
says,  'The  people  of  Tokio  welcome  with 
loud    Huzzahs    Lamanism,    which  is 
polyandry,  or  a  plurality  of  husbands,' 
and  I  did  not  say  any  such  a  thing.  I 
said,  'The  enlightened  people  of  Tokio.' 
The  whole  sarcasm  is  lost  by  your  in- 
terpreter.  It  was  not  the  common  peo- 
ple, it  was  not  the  laboring  people,  but 
it  was  the  enlightened  people  of  Tokio 
that  was  crying  out  against  the  'Mor- 
mon' people."   I  asked  him  if  he  would 
not  translate  the  first  page  for  me  him- 
self.   (I  had  about  10  pages  of  it.)  He 
said  he  was  very  busy,  but  he  would 
translate  the  first  page,  as  near  as  I 
can  remember,  the  first  page  was  as 
follows:  "The  enlightened  people  of  To- 
kio have  recently  welcomed  a  sect  from 
Thibet  that  preaches  Lamanism,  poly- 
andry, a  plurality  of  husbands,  and 
scarce  have  they  welcomed  them  with 
extraordinary  enthusiasm  and  the  huz- 
zahs died  away  tefore  they  are  con- 
demning, with  absolute  ignorance,  the 
'Mormon'  religion!     And  these  people 
who  are  condemning  the  'Mormons'  and 
polygamy  are  believers  in  concubinage! 
Can  there  be  under  the  sun  a  greater 
inconsistency  than  this?  We  might  say 
something  about  the  emperor  and  his 
concubines,  but  perhaps  it  would  be 
considered  disloyal,  and  therefore  we 
will  keep  quiet." 

This  gives  you  a  little  idea  of  this 
man.  I  afterwards  told  my  interpreter 
what  he  said.  "Well,  Mr.  Grant,"  he 
said,  "I  told  you  that  I  could  not  in- 
terpret the  article.  I  told  you  that  it 
was  like  a  rugged  mountain.  I  told 
you  it  was  so  full  of  force  and  fire  that 
I  could  not  put  it  in  the  English  lan- 
guage." The  minute  I  read  this  article 
I  sent  the  writer  an  invitation  to  come 
and  dine  with  me  at  the  hotel.  He 
came  there,  and  afterwards  he  wrote 
and  said,  if  I  would  furnish  him  items 
of  history  regarding  our  people,  he 
would  gladly  write  a  book  in  our  de- 
fense.   He  said,  "I  feel  that  you  are 


48 


GENERAL.  CONFERENCE. 


honest,  I  feel  that  you  are  misunder- 
stood, I  feel  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
has  come  upon  me,  and  I  want  to  de- 
fend you,  and  if  you  will  give  me  the 
materials  I  will  do  it;  for  I  feel  that  I 
am  called  to  this  work."    I  immediately 
told  him  that  it  would  give  me  pleasure. 
I  furnished  him  the  History  of  Joseph 
Smith  by  Brother  Cannon,  the  History 
of  John    Taylor    by  Brother  Roberts, 
and  A  Brief  History  of  the  Church  by 
Edward    H.  Anderson.      The  latter  is 
published  by  the  Juvenile  Instructor, 
and  does  not  give  Brother  Anderson  the 
credit  of  being  the  author,  but  he  is 
entitled  to  it;  and  if  I  had  the  ability 
to  write  such  a  work  I  would  not  let 
them  publish  it  if  they  did  not  put  my 
name  upon  it.   I  furnished  him  Mormon 
Doctrine  by  Brother  Penrose,  The  New 
Witness  for  God  and  The  Missouri  Per- 
secutions by  Brother  Roberts,  and  the 
Book  of  Mormon.    He  already  had  the 
Book  of  Mormon  and  was  pretty  well 
posted    on  it.     I  also    furnished  him, 
among  other  documents,  a  tract  by  Col- 
onel Thomas,  of  London,  that  impressed 
him  very  much.  He  has  written  a. boos 
of  some  200  or  more  pages,  about  the 
size  of  the  Improvement  Era.    He  has 
illustrated  it  with  pictures  from  the 
little     pamphlet     entitled     "In  and 
Around     Salt     Lake     City."       Th  u-e 
is     a     picture     there     of     the  five 
presidents  of  the  Church,  also  of  the 
Temple  block,  a  view  of  Salt  Lake  City, 
of  Saltair,  of  the  Salt  Palace,  and  of 
some  Indians,  with  their  children  on 
their  backs— exactly  the  same  as  the 
Japanese.    And,  by  the  way,  there  is 
a  wonderful  resemblance  between  the 
American  Indian  and  many    of  the 
Japanese.   The  pictures  of  Prest.  Smith, 
of  my  family,  and  of  some  others  will 
be  published  in  this  book.   He  says  that 
these  pictures  will  dispel  at  a  glance 
the  popular  idea  that  the  "Mormons" 
are  an  ignorant  and  degraded  people. 
He  has  put  in  a  picture  of  the  Lehi 
sugar  factory,  and  he  was  wonderfully 
impressed  with  what  our  people  had  ac- 
complished in  a  material  way.   He  said, 
"I  may,  of  course,  make  a  mistake  in 
some  of  your  doctrinal  items.    I  would 
not  like  to  do  that.    I  may  make  a 
mistake  in  some  of    your  historical 
items.    I  would  not  like  to  do  that, 
either;  and  I  shall  submit  to  you  the 


doctrinal  and  historical  items  before  I 
publish  my  book."  I  invited  him  to 
dinner  regularly  every  Sunday  for  about 
two  months,  and  afterwards  he  said 
he  did  not  wish  to  show  me  anything 
in  the  book,  because,  he  said,  "people 
will  say  you  told  me  what  to  write, 
and  it  will  not  do  you  the  good  I  want 
it  to  do.  I  am  writing  in  your  favor, 
and  I  know  you  will  be  pleased  with 
the  book."  He  had  read  all  Dr.  Tal- 
mage's  articles  published  in  the  Era  on 
the  "History  and  Philosophy  of  Mor- 
monism,"  and  he  said  that  if  he  quoted 
the  doctrinal  and  historical  items  from 
what  I  have  given  him  he  could  not 
make  any  mistake,  and  that  was  what 
he  had  done. 

I  am  sorry  I  did  not  bring  with  me 
the  contents  of  that  book.  It  will  con- 
tain 10  chapters,  and  the  first  is  entitled 
"The  Greatest  Problem  of  the  World." 
This  will  give  you*  some  idea  of  what 
the  man  thinks.  In  the  article  he 
wrote  about  the  "Mormons"  before  I 
ever  met  him,  he  wound  it  up  by  say- 
ing, "I  will  ask  some  questions.  Was 
Joseph  Smith  a  deceitful  hero,  who  de- 
ceived the  world,  and  was  punished  by 
the  Almighty  for  his  wickedness?  Or 
was  he,  like  Jesus  Christ,  a  martyr  for 
the  truths  of  heaven?"  I  believe 
that  this  man  became  convinced  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  martyr.  Here  is 
a  list  of  the  headings  of  the  ten  chap- 
ters :' 

Chapter  I.  The  Greatest  Problem  in 
the  World. 

Chapterll.  Mormonism — What  is  it? 
Early  History  of  Joseph  Smith. 

Chapter  III.  The  Book  of  Mormon, 
and  American  Antiquities;  Archaeolo- 
gy and  Comparative  Philology. 

Chapter  IV.  The  Spaulding  Story,  and 
ether  Stories. 

Chapter  V.  Exodus — Miracles— Chosen 
People. 

Chapter  VI.  Phoenix-like,  risen  out 
of  the  ashes. 

Chapter  VII.   Loyal  or  Disloyal. 

Chapter  VIII.  Polygamy.  What  is; 
it? 

Chapter  IX.  Social  Conditions.  Social 
Christianity  without  running  into  Com- 
munism. 

Chapter  X.  Success  and  Prosperity 
Religious  and  Commercial. 


ELDER   HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


40 


Not  one  word  that  is  in  this  book 
have  I  suggested;  but  I  believe  that  1 
could  not  possibly  pick  out  ten  chap- 
ters and  arranged  them  any  better  than 
this  man  has  done.  He  is  a  highly 
educated  man.  He  translated  five- 
sevenths  of  the  Bible  into  the  Japan- 
ese language  when  it  was  done.  He 
speaks  the  English  language  well;  he 
speaks  the  Hebrew  language,  he  under- 
stands some  Egyptian,  and  he  reads 
the  French.  He  has  a  two-story  fire- 
proof building  adjoining  his  dwelling, 
full  of  books,  where  he  studies.  I  have 
always  looked  upon  Orson  Pratt  as  the 
great  student  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
and  I  remarked  to  my  brethren  that 
Goro  Takahashi  was  the  Orson  Pratt 
of  the  Japanese  nation.  I  feel  that 
God  touched  this  man's  heart.and  made 
him  friendly  towards  us;  and  he  has 
written  a  book  that  I  believe  will  do 
us  a  world  of  good.  I  remarked  to 
him  that  I  would  like  him  to  translate 
it  into  the  English  language  and  send 
it .  to  me,  and  I  would  publish  it  at 
home,  with  the  same  illustrations,  so 
that  the  people  could  see  what  he  had 
written;  that  I  knew  it  would  have  a 
good  sale  at  home,  and  it  would  give 
me  delight  to  let  him  have  any  profits 
that  there  might  be.  I  told  him  that  I 
realized  it  would  take  him  a  long  time 
to  translate  it  into  the  English  lan- 
guage, because  he  would  not  write  as 
rapidly  in  our  language  as  he 
could  in  his  own.  "You  are 
very  much  mistaken,"  he  said;  it 
won't  take  me  very  long,  because 
there  are  so  many  exact  quotations 
from  the  pamphlets  and  books  you 
gave  me.  I  have  translated  them  into 
the  Japanese  language  verbatim;  there- 
fore it  wont  be  difficult  to  put  them 
back  into  English."  I  feel  that  this 
man  was  raised  up  of  God  to  do  this, 
and  although  he  may  have  made  some 
mistakes  I  believe  his  book  will  do  us  a 
great  deal  of  good. 

I  rejoice  to  be  here.  I  rejoice  in  the 
testimony  of  the  Gospbl  of  Jesus  Christ. 
I  rejoice  in  the  increased  testimony 
that  my  mission  has  given  me.  I  never 
expected  that  it  would  be  possible  for  a 


man  of  my  temperament  and  disposi- 
tion, who  from  a  boy  of  14  years  of  age 
has  been  actively  engaged  in  business, 
to  forget  it,  and  that  I  could  content 
myself  in  a  foreign  land  studying  a 
language  that  put  me  to  sleep  nearly 
every  time  I  tried  it,  and  yet  be  happy. 
But  I  was.  There  was  the  sweet  Spirit 
of  God  with  us,  and  many  times  in 
our  little  meetings  we  shed  tears  of  joy, 
because  of  the  outflow  of  the  Spirit  of 
God.  If  I  had  the  privilege  of  picking 
the  Church  ever  for  three  companions 
I  could  not  be  better  satisfied  than 
with  those  that  I  have.  I  had  my 
choice,  and  I  have  not  been  disappoint- 
ed. I  say  to  you,  my  friends,  that  I 
am  happy  to  be  here.  All  of  the  offi- 
cers that  have  been  chosen  during  my 
absence,  my  head  and  my  heart  have 
been  pleased  and  satisfied  with.  It  is 
a  sorrow  to  me  to  come  home  and  not 
receive  the  handshake  of  my  beloved 
President  Snow,  whom  I  loved  as  dear- 
ly as  life  itself;  but  I  rejoice  that  the 
son  of  one  of  the  two  mar- 
tyrs for  the  cause  presides 
over  the  Church  of  Christ.  I 
rejoice  in  the  knowledge  that  the  work 
of  God  is  onward  and  upward,  and  that 
each  and  every  one  of  us  who  are  true 
and  faithful  will  be  saved.  I  rejoice 
that  this  Gospel  is  going  to  all  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth.  I  rejoice  in  being 
a  messenger  of  the  plan  of  life  and  sal- 
vation. God  has  blessed  me  with  a 
knowledge.  I  know  that  He  lives.  I 
know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  I  know 
that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet 
of  God.  I  know  that  I  shall  live  for- 
ever, and  that  if  I  am  faithful  I  shall 
be  exalted.  I  know  that  this  same 
blessing  will  come  to  all  of  you,  if  you 
are  faithful;  and  that  you  may  be, 
and  obtain  the  blessing,  is  my  prayer, 
and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  sal- 
vation, 

No  longer  as  strangers  on  earth  need 
we  roam. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Byron  Ses- 
sions. 


THIRD  DAY. 


OVERFLOW  MEETING. 
April  6th,  10  a.  m. 

ASSEMBLY  HALL. 

The  Tabernacle  being  inadequate  to 
accommodate  the  immense  concourse 
of  pople  in  attendance,  an  overflow 
meeting  was  held,  at  which  Elder  Heber 
J.  Grant  presided. 

The  Temple  choir  sang: 

Guide  us,  O  Thou  great  Jehovah. 

Prayer  by  Elder  John  T.  Caine.  , 

Singing  by  the  choir  and  congrega- 
tion: 

How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the 
Lord, 

Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  His  excellent 
word. 

ELDER  CHAS.  W.  PENROSE. 

It  is  a  great  pleasure  to  be  permitted 
to  assemble  with  the  Saints  in  this 
general  conference.  During  the  meet- 
ings that  have  been  held  in  the  Taber- 
nacle, anci  this  morning,  in  looking  up- 
on this  congregation,  I  was  reminded  of 
a  revelation,  given  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  before  the  organization  of 
the  Church,  which  was  alluded  to  by 
one  of  the  speakers  during  our  services 
in  the  Tabernacle.  The  Lord  said  that 
a  grear  and  marvelous  work  was 
about  to  come  forth  among  the  children 
of  men.  This  thought  is  also  conveyed 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  was  tak- 
en fron  the  prophecy  delivered  through 
the  Prophet  Isaiah  many  hundreds  of 
years  ago.  You  will  find  it  in  the  29th 
chapter  of  the  book  of  Isaiah.  The 
Lord  gave  one  of  the  reasons  for  the 
corning  forth  of  this  marvelous  work. 
He  said.  "Forasmuch  as  this  people 
draw  v.oar  me  with  their  mouth,  and 
with  their  lips  do  honor  me,  but  have 
removed  their  heart  far  from  me,  and 
their  fear  toward  me  is  taught  by  the 
precepts  of  men:  Therefore,  behold,  I 
will  proceed  to  do  a  marvelous  work 
among  this  people,  even  a  marvelous 


work  and  a  wonder;  for  the  wisdom  of 
their  wise  men  shall  perish,  and  the  un- 
derstanding of  their  prudent  men  shall 
be  hid."  But  the  Lord  said  that  the 
meek  among  men  should  rejoice  in  the 
Lord,  and  the  poor  among  men  should 
increase  their  joy  in  the  Holy  One  of 
Israel;  but  that  the  scorner  should  be 
brought  to  nought.  The  eyes  of  the 
blind  were  also  to  be  opened  and  the 
ears  of  the-  deaf  unstopped,  and  they 
should  hear  the  words  of  the  book  that 
was  to  be  brought  forth;  for  the  word 
of  the  Lord  was  to  come  out  of  the 
ground,  and  to  speak,  as  it  were,  "low 
out  of  the  dust." 

Now  we  are  witnessing  the  fulfil- 
ment, to  a  very  large  extent,  of  these 
predictions  of  the  Prophets  of  the 
Lord.  This  work  with  which  we 
are  associated  is  indeed  a  marvel- 
ous work  and  a  wonder.  When  we 
look  upon  the  people  assembled  in  the 
Tabernacle  and  at  this  overflow  meet- 
ing, and  realize  that  we  who  are  gath- 
ered here  are  but  a  small  representation 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  which  forms  the  ma- 
jority of  the  people  of  this  region— when 
we  realize  this,  we  are  led  to  exclaim, 
"What  hath  God  wrought!"  It  was  "a 
marvelous  work  and  a  wonder"  when 
the  Book  of  Mormon  was  translated 
by  the  power  of  God  into  the  Eng- 
lish language,  from  the  hieroglyphics 
made  on  the  metallic  plates.  Nothing 
of  the  kind  had  ever  occurred,  so  far 
as  we  are  aware,  in  the  history  of  the 
world.  In  all  the  developments  of  sci- 
ence and  in  all  the  gifts  and  blessings 
which  God  bestowed  upon  His  servants 
in  ancient  times,  I  do  not  know  of  any- 
thing to  compare  with  the  marvelous 
work  and  wonder  oi  bringing  forth 
those  plates  and  translating  the  char- 
acters which  were  upon  them.  It  is  so 
marvelous  and  wonderful  that  the' peo- 
ple of  the  world  will  not  believe  it. 
But  we,  my  brethren  and  sisters  have 
been  led  to  believe  in  the  truth  of  this 
book  which  the  Lord  has  given  us  in 


ELDER   CHARLES   W.  PENROSE. 


51 


the  last  days.  Through  our  faith  in 
the  word  of  the  Lord  and  the  testi- 
monies that  have  been  borne  unto  us  we 
have  been  led  to  receive  the  Gospel  as 
taught  in  that  book  and  in  the  New 
Testament,  through  the  labors  of  the 
servants  of  God  in  the  latter  days.  We 
have  also  received  the  Holy  Ghost  as  a 
gift  from  God  to  us,  to  enlighten  our 
minds,  to  lead  and  guide  us  in  the  ways 
of  truth,  and  to  bear  witness  to  us  con- 
cerning every  truth  that  the  Lord  has 
revealed,  that  He  is  revealing  and  that 
He  will  yet  reveal.  Through  this  glori- 
ous gift  which  the  Lord  has  given  us 
our  minds  have  been  led  upward  from 
the  things  of  earth  to  comprehend,  in 
some  degree,  the  things  of  heaven— 
from  the  things  of  time  to  those  of  eter- 
nity. 

In  contemplating  that  which  God  has 
already  accomplished  in  this  marvelous 
work  that  He  has  commenced  on  the 
earth,  we  can  look  forward  to  that 
which  is  to  be.  The  Gospel  is  to  be 
preached  to  every  nation,  kindred,  ton- 
gue and  people.  The  nations  that  sit 
in  darkness  are  to  see  the  marvelous 
light.  The  people  that  know  not  God 
are  to  be  brought  into  such  a  condition 
that  they  can  learn  of  His  laws,  walk 
in  His  ways  and  keep  His  command- 
ments, and  the  barriers  that  have  been 
builded  up  by  the  powers  of  dark- 
ness, through  the  craft  of  men,  will 
be  broken  down,  in  the  due  time  of  the 
Lord.  They  will  be  removed  from  the 
way,  and  this  Gospel  of  peace,  this 
marvelous  work  that  God  has  com- 
menced in  the  earth,  will  spread  over 
all  the  globe,  and  there  "will  not  be  a 
corner  of  this  earth  wherein  the  Gos- 
pel will  not  be  preached.  Now,  this 
lies  in  the  future,  but  the  Lord  will 
accomplish  it.  This  is  part  of  the  work 
that  He  said  He  was  about  to  bring 
forth  among  the  children  of  men. 

The  preaching  of  the  Gospel  by  the 
Elders  of  this  Church  is  a  marvelous 
work.  Where  will  you  find  among  the 
differing  religions  a  man  like  the  El- 
ders of  Israel,  who  is  willing  to  go  to 
any  part  of  the  world,  without  money 
and  without  price,  who  is  willing  to 
sacrifice  all  the  temporal  comforts  of 
home  and  its  surroundings  and  carry 
the  message  of  life  and  salvation  to  his 
fellow-creatures?    It  is  marvelous  in 


the  eyes  of  the  preachers  of  the  vari- 
ous Christian  sects.  They  can  scarcely 
believe  or  comprehend  it.  When  they 
see  how  our  boys,  without  training,  go 
out  in  the  world,  and  face  an  opposing 
people,  the  traditions  of  men  and  the 
influences  and  powers  that  are  against 
them,  trusting  wholly  in  God,  and 
preaching  the  Gospel  without  purse  or 
scrip,  they  are  amazed  and  confound- 
ed. It  is  something  marvelous,  some- 
thing unique  in  the  world's  history, 
aside  from  the  labors  of  the  Apostles 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  their  as- 
sociates in  the  early  days  of  the  Chris- 
tian Church.  The  fact  that  many  people 
of  the  nations  of  the  earth,  wherever 
this  Gospel  is  proclaimed,  bear  testi- 
mony that  they  receive  a  witness  from 
God  concerning  its  divinity,  is  marvel- 
ous. It  matters  not  where  those  men  or 
women  were  born,  or  what  their  tradi- 
tions or  language  may  have  been,  when 
the  light  of  the  Gospel,  through  the 
testimony  of  the  humble  servants  of 
God,  penetrates  their  souls  they  are 
brought  to  a  unity  of  the  faith.  When 
they  come  together  they  may  not  be 
able  to  understand  each  other's  lan- 
guages, but  they  understand  the  spirit 
that  permeates  their  minds,  and  under- 
stand the  influences  by  which  they  are 
led,  and  rejoice  together.  The  same 
light  is  in  all  their  souls,  the  same 
warmth  in  all  their  hearts,  and  they 
can  fraternize  and  feel  that  they  are 
brothers  and  sisters  in  very  deed. 

It  is  a  marvel  when  we  look 
at  it  naturally,  to  behold  how 
this  influence  spreads  throughout 
the  whole  Church,  to  see  what  a  bond 
of  union  is  formed  by  the  power  of  the 
spirit  and  teachings  of  the  Gospel. 
When  we  come  to  think  how  the  way 
has  been  opened  up  for  the  people  who 
have  been  brought  from  the  various 
nations  of  the  earth  to  these  moun- 
tain \ales,  is  it  not  wonderful?  Most 
of  them  were  raised  in  what  ar->  called 
the  lower  ranks  of  society.  I  do  not 
mean  the  lowest  classes,  or  the  crimi- 
nal element  of  society,  but  the  working 
people,  the  bone  and  sinew  of  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth.  Most  of  the  people 
who  have  come  up  here  in- 
to these  mountain  vales  were 
not  from  among  what  is  called 
the     upper      classes,      the  learned. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  wise  after  the  wisdom  of  this 
world,  but  were  from  among  the  plod- 
ding class.  The  Gospel  has  reached 
them  and  the  Lord,  in  a  marvelous 
manner,  has  opened  the  way  whereby 
they  might  gather  here  in  these  moun- 
tains by  tht  thousands.  They  have 
come  away  out  here,  across  the  bleak 
and  barren  plains,  up  into  these  moun- 
tain vales,  to  worship  the  Lord,  to 
learn  of  His  ways  and  walk  in  His 
paths.  This  was  also  predicted  by  the 
Frophets  ls--aiah  and  Micah.  Is  it  not 
marvelous  in  our  eyes,  when  we  think 
of  what  God  hath  wrought,  bringing 
these  people  from  afar,  from  the  north 
and  from  the  south,  from  the  east  and 
frjm  the  west?  He  has  said  "to  the 
north  give  up,  and  to  the  south  keep 
not  back.  Bring  my  sons  from  far 
£n-i  my  daughters  from  the  ends  of 
the  earth."  They  are  gathered  here, 
and  wp  see  them  spreading  out  over  the 
face  of  the  land,  and  still  they  say, 
"Give  us  rcom  that  we  may  dwell." 
They  are  overflowing  into  Canada  on 
the  north,  and  away  down  into  Mexico, 
Arizona  and  New  Mexico,  on  the  south, 
and  into  Colorado,  Idaho  and  Wyoming. 
We  are  spreading  out,  and  the  influ- 
ence that  we  carry  is  a  marvel  in  the 
eyes  of  the  world,  and  many  are  warn- 
ing the  people  against  "the  menace  of 
Mormonism,"  the  peril  that  is  to  come 
to  the  nation  because  of  the  wonderful 
increase  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  or 
"Mormons." 

Some  years  ago  President  Brigham 
Young  sent  missionaries  to  China, 
Siam  and  the  East  Indies.  The  breth- 
ren accomplished  but  little  in 
Siam  and  China,  but  a  few 
converts  were  made  in  India, 
and  some  of  them  came  here  to  these 
mountains.  We  might  think  the  trip 
was  a  failure,  on  the  .whole.  Some- 
times, when  people  go  into  a  new  coun- 
try to  found  settlements  they  make  big 
mistakes  in  the  beginning.  They 
flounder  away  and  have  a  hard  time, 
and  sometimes  forsake  the  spot  where 
they  were  sent  to  live;  but,  in  most 
instances,  they  go  ahead,  and,  after  a 
little  experience,  the  way  is  opened 
up  before  them,  the  barrenness  is  taken 
from  the  soil,  the  elements  become  pro- 
pitious, the  water  is  increased,  and  the 
blessing  of  God  comes  upon  the  land, 


and  flourishing  settlements  are  built 
up.  When  the  Lord,  through  His  serv- 
ant Brigham  Young,  sent  men  into 
Arizona,  on  the  first  expedition,  they 
did  not  succeed  in  founding  any  settle- 
ments, but  returned  and  gave  a  bad 
report  of  the  land.  But  Prest.  Young 
had  seen  it  by  the  power  and  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  and  knew  the  way  was 
to  be  opened  up  in  that  southern  coun- 
try; so  he  did  not  give  up.  When  at 
first  they  did  not  succeed  he  was  de- 
termined that  they  should  try,  try 
again.  Now  we  learn  that  settlements 
are  flourishing  in  Arizona,  New  Mexico 
and  Old  Mexico,  and  we  have  a  good 
representation  of  Saints  from  that 
country  attending  this  conference.  Even 
so  the  Lord  moved  upon  His  servant 
Brigham  to  send  missionaries  to  the 
Orient.  If  their  mission  accomplished 
no  great  good,  it  did,  at  least,  help  to 
prepare  the  way,  in  a  small  degree; 
and  now,  the  servants  of  the  Lord, 
Apostle  Heber  J.  Grant  and  his  associ- 
ates, through  God's  assistance,  have 
been  successful  in  opening  up  the  work 
in  the  Japanese  empire,  and  persons 
have  been  brought  to  a  knowledge  of 
the  truth,  and  others  are  enquiring.  We 
shall  find,  I  believe  with  all  my  heart, 
that  the  opening  of  the  Japanese  mis- 
sion will  prove  the  key  to  the  entrance 
of  the  Gospel  in  the  Orient.  We  will 
find  that  an  influence  will  go  out  from 
Japan  into  other  oriental  nations.  The 
ice  has  been  broken,  and  the  barriers 
will  be  removed  from  the  way,  and  the 
Gospel  will  spread  into  other  eastern 
nations.  If  we  only  succeed  in  getting 
a  few  converts,  who  can  open  the  door 
of  the  kingdom  for  their  ancestors  in 
the  spirit  world,  what  a  wonderful 
work  will  be  accomplished! 

When  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  his 
brother  Hyrum  were  slain  for  the  testi- 
mony of  Jesus  it  was  in  the 
providence  of  God;  it  was  with  His 
permission.  They  went  to  open  the 
door  of  the  kingdom  in  the  spirit  world, 
and  thus  a  marvelous  work  and  a  won- 
der has  begun  there  also.  When  we 
get  there  we  will  find  out  the  magni- 
tude of  it;  for  we  will  see  that  the  El- 
ders of  Zion  who  have  tabernacled  in 
the  flesh  are  laboring  there,  under  the 
direction  of  him  who  holds  the  keys  of 
the  last  dispensation,  and   the  Gospel 


ELDER   CHARLES   W.  PENROSE. 


53 


is  being  preached  to  millions  upon  mil- 
lions of  spirits,  and  a  far  greater  work 
is  to  toe  accomplished  there  than  among 
men  in  the  flesh.  We  have  but  just  be- 
gun the  work  here,  for  there  are  many 
millions  upon  the  earth  that  have  not 
heard  the  Gospel,  and  know  nothing  of 
this  marvelous  work  and  wonder;  but 
they  will  yet  hear  the  Gospel  message, 
and  the  way  will  be  opened  everywhere 
and  the  purposes  of  the  Lord  will  be 
accomplished. 

The  great  thing  for  us,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  is  to  know,  to  have  a  full 
understanding,  a  firm  conviction  and 
real  knowledge  that  this  is  God's  work, 
and  that  it  is  not  the  work  of  man.  "We 
can  reason  this  out  when  we  look  at 
what  has  been  accomplished,  and  can 
reasonably  come  to  the  understanding 
and  conviction  that  a  superior  Power 
has  been  at  work  with  this  people,  with 
the  Elders  of  this  Church  and  with  our 
leaders,  and  that  it  has  not  been  done 
by  human  wisdom.  Human  wi;dom 
has  perished  before  this  work;  the  un- 
derstanding of  the  wise  has  come  to 
naught  before  it,  and  we  can  reason- 
ably come  to  the  conclusion  that  a 
stronger  Power  must  have  been  at  the 
head  of  this  work  to  accomplish  what 
has  been  done,  in  the  inspired  preach- 
ing of  the  Gospel;  the  gathering  of 
God's  people,  the  building  up  of  Zion 
and  the  establishment  of  this  great 
State.  There  is  also  an  influence  of 
oneness  and  union  among  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  that  cannot  be  found  any- 
where else.  The  sects  and  societies 
have  great  gatherings  in  different  parts 
of  the  world — religious  gatherings,  po- 
litical gatherings,  scientific  Gatherings 
and  educational  assemblies — but  where 
will  you  find  among  any  of  them  such 
a  spirit  of  union,  brotherhood  and  'En- 
thusiasm as  is  found  in  the  gatherings 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints?  There  is  a 
kind  of  enthusiasm  among  the  people 
of  the  world  in  their  religious  revivals. 
They  get  spiritually  intoxicated  and 
sometimes  indulge  in  various 
spiritual  gymnastics.  but  '  what 
does  it  amount  to?  There  is  no  light 
or  intelligence  in  it;  it  is  merely  a  feel- 
ing worked  up  by  human  oratory  and 
energy.  Where  do  we  find  that  spirit 
and  influence  that  are  experienced  in  our 
gatherings?    Look  at  the  great  con- 


gregation in  the  Tabernacle  and  in  this 
building  today!  Where  can  you  find 
such  an  exhibition  of  union  and  spirit- 
ual light  and  enthusiasm  as  we  feel 
and  experience  here  in  these  assem- 
blies? There  is  nothing  like  it  in.  the 
world.  Well,  reviewing  these  matters, 
we  may  come  to  the  conclusion  that 
there  is  something  more  than  human 
about  it,  a  Power  greater  than-  that  of 
man.  But,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we 
need  something  greater  than  these  con- 
clusions as  a  foundation  upon  which  to 
build.  We  need  the  testimony  of  Jesus, 
the  Spirit  of  prophecy,  the  witness  of 
the  Holy  Ghost  in  our  hearts;  not  only 
a  reasonable  conviction,  but  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  truth,  and  it  is  our  privi- 
lege to  have  this. 

All  those  who  have  repented  of  their 
sins  and  been  baptized  in  water,  by  im- 
mersion, by  one  having  authority,  are 
entitled  to  receive  the  Holy  Ghost,  as 
a  gift  from  God,  to  enlighten  their 
minds  and  to  bear  witness  of  the  things 
of  God,  and  to  open  up  a  channel  of 
communication -between  them  and  the 
Eternal  Father,  through  Jesus  Christ, 
the  Son.  Now,  have  we  that  blessing, 
you  and  I?  If  we  have  not  we  should 
get  it;  we  can  all  have  it.  There  is 
nothing  in  the  way  but  ourselves.  God 
has  promised  the  gift  to  us,  and  if  we 
have  not  received  it  let  us  seek  for  it. 
We  need  not  look  for  some  wonderful 
spiritual  exhibition  of  power,  some- 
thing different  from  the  ordinary. 
What  we  should  look  for  is  the  light  to 
our  souls;  that  we  may  know  that  it 
shines  in  our  hearts,  so  that  we  have  no 
dubiety  in  this  thing.  It  is  our  priv- 
ilege to  have  this.  I  hope  you  all  have 
it  this  morning.  I  am  very  thankful 
that  I  have  received  it,  and  have  had  it 
for  a  great  many  years.  I  received  it 
when  I  received  the  Gospel;  it  began 
to  glimmer  in  my  soul  when  I  first 
heard  the  truth.  I  had  a  place  for  it  in 
my  heart  when  I  was  a  boy.  No  One 
else  belonging  to  the  family  I  was  con- 
nected with  received  it.  When  I  obeyed 
the  Gospel  and  was  baptized  I  received 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  a  witness 
from  God  that  this  work  is  true;  and 
I  am  very  thankful  this  morn- 
ing that  it  has  always  been  with  me 
from  that  time  until  the  present.  I 
have  been  in  this  Church  a  little  over 


4 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


fifty-two  years,  and  was  called,  shortly 
after  embracing  the  Gospel,  to  go  and 
preach  the  glad  tidings  to  the  world.  O 
how  glad  I  am  that  I  responded  to 
that  call,  in  spite  of  all  the  discourage- 
ment and  influence  brought  to  bear 
upon  me  not  to  do  so!  The  Lord  has 
been  with  me  from  that  time  until  now. 
It  is  marvelous  in  my  eyes,  "A  mar- 
velous work  and  a  wonder,"  and  I  can 
bear  my  testimony  to  you,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  that  I  do  know  that 
this  is  the  work  of  God.  This  is  the 
work  of  the  Father,  and,  of  course, 
it  is  the  work  of  the  Son  and  of  the 
Holy  Ghost;  for  they  three  are  one  in 
all  things — not  one  in  person,  but  one 
in  purpose,  and  their  efforts  are  for  the 
uplifting  of  the  children  of  men,  not 
only  on  this  litle  globe,  but  on  others 
also;  but  we  will  confine  ourselves  to 
this  glebe,  for  it  is  ours  and  will  be  in 
the  future.  I  know  that  God  has  com- 
mence! the  great  latter-day  work  and 
will  cause  it  to  continue  to  grow  and 
spread  until  it  fills  the  whole  earth.  It 
will  never  be  overcome. 

One  thing  we  should  have  inscribed 
on  our  memories  in  conection  with 
this  knowledge  is,  that  when  the  Lord 
commenced  this  work  He  commenced  it 
"for  the  last  days  and  for  the  last  time." 
It  will  not  be  thrown  down  or  given  to 
another  people.  It  is  to  endure  and 
abide  forever,  and,  instead  of  being 
overcome  by  the  things  of  this  world,  it 
is  to  overcome  them.  My  brethren  and 
sisters,  it  will  conquer,  it.  will  endure. 
It  matters  not  what  may  be  brought 
against  it,  it  will  prevail;  for  it  is  the 
work  of  the  Lord,  and  it  is  "a  marvel- 
ous work  and  a  wonder."  Let  us  not 
turn  to  the  right  or  to  the  left 
through  the  influences  of  that  Evil 
One,  who  deceives  the  nations.  Many 
people  will  fail;  many  persons  will 
turn  aside,  and  they  will  endeavor  to 
lead  others  astray.  But  this  work  will 
continue  onward,  and  it  will  overcome 
everything  that  arises  in  its  path;  it 
will  revolutionize  the  world.  It  will 
turn  things  upsidedown,  or  rather 
rightsideup,  for  they  have  been  turned 
upsidedown  already.  This  work  will 
rectify  the  evils  that  exist  in  the  world. 
But,  before  that  is  accomplished  we 
must  rectify  every  evil  among  our- 
selves.    If     there     is     anything  in 


our  hearts  that  is  contrary  to  the 
word  of  the  Lord,  let  us  eradi- 
cate it;  let  us  pull  the  weeds  from 
our  own  gardens  and  remove  every 
root  of  selfishness,  every  seed  of  bitter- 
ness and  everything  that  is  not  good, 
and  live  together,  as  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, as  the  Lord  has  commanded,  in 
love  and  humility,  and  in  obedience  to 
His  laws  and  commandments.  Let  us 
attend  to  the  little  duties  as  well  as 
the  big  duties.  They  are  all  big  enough 
when  we  understand  them  properly. 
Let  us  attend  to  every  duty  in  the  Gos- 
pel and  live  according  to  the  laws  of 
God,  and  the  testimony  of  the  truth 
will  abide  with  us  forever. 

Now,  I  rejoice  in  what  has  been 
done,  and  I  can  see  a  great  deal  that 
will  be  done;  but  I  will  not  take  time 
to  enter  upon  such  a  subject  as  that, 
as  there  are  others  to  speak,  and  I  will 
bring  my  remarks  to  a  close. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  with  this 
work  with  all  that  I  have  and  am,  and 
I  am  in  it  for  "keeps."  I  want  to  be 
with  this  people  and  labor  for  the 
cause  of  humanity,  for  I  know  that  this 
is  God's  work  and  that  it  will  prevail. 
I  know  this  Gospel  will  go  to  every  na- 
tion, and  that  the  Lord  will  gather 
from  the  nations  His  sons  and  daugh- 
ters, to  labor  in  His  cause,  that  His 
work  may  be  perfected  in  the  redemp- 
tion of  the  human  race,  both  the  liv- 
ing and  the  dead.  It  will  not  be  ful- 
filled until  every  soul  of  Adam's  race 
that  can  be  redeemed  in  some  degree 
of  glory  is  saved.  The  Captain  of  our 
salvation  will  overcome,  and  the  Ad- 
versary of  our  souls  will  eventually  be 
discomfited,  and  will  gain  none  but 
those  who  are  called  the  sons  of  perdi- 
tion. 

May  God  help  us  to  understand  the 
truth  and  to  labor  in  this  great  work 
for  the  salvation  of  mankind,  with  all 
our  hearts,  that  we  may  never  falter 
or  fail,  but  finally  be  prepared  to  go 
into  the  presence  of  the  Lord  and  in- 
herit a  fulness  of  glory  in  His  kingdom, 
through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN. 

I  have  rejoiced,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, in  the  testimony  and  remarks  of 
Elder  Penrose.    I  wondered,  when  he 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN. 


55 


bore  record  that  he  was  in  this  work 
with  all  that  he  had  and  was,  and  that 
he  was  in  it  for  "keeps,"  whether  or 
not  there  was  that  same  feeling  and 
testimony  in  the  hearts  of  all  present 
here  this  morning.  We  should  all  be 
in  this  work  with  all  that  we  possess. 
It  is  a  very  great  mistake  to  become 
associated  with  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  be  pos- 
sessed of  anything  that  is  not  in  the 
work  of  the  Lord  that  we  do  not  hold 
in  readiness  to  be  used  for  the  estab- 
lishment of  the  purposes  of  our  Father. 
I  hope  that  we  have  this  testimony, 
and  that  we  feel  in  our  hearts  that, 
with  the  assistance  of  God,  we  will  be 
true  and  faithful  to  the  covenants  we 
have  made,  and  that  we  will  always 
be  found  under  the  direction  of  the  au- 
thority that  God  has  placed  upon  the 
earth,,  laboring  faithfully  for  the  estab- 
lishment of  His  holy  purposes. 

I  feel  in  my  heart  to  bear  record  to 
the  fulfillment  of  the  scripture  referred 
to  by  Brother  Penrose,  concerning  the 
marvelous  character  of  the  work  that 
has  been  established  on  the  earth  by 
the  Lord,  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  In  looking  over  this  congrega- 
tion, the  thought  came  to  me  that 
there  were,  perhaps,  quite  a  number  of 
men  and  women  here  who  were  born 
before  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  was  established.  Such 
men  and  women  have,  within  the  span 
of  their  own  lives,  witnessed  the  won- 
derful growth  of  the  Church  estab- 
lished in  1830  by  the  Prophet.  They  are 
witnesses  to  the  fulfillment  of  Joseph 
Smith's  predictions,  and  must  know 
from  their  own  experience  and  obser- 
vation, that  Joseph  Smith  was  an  in- 
spired man.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
as  has  already  been  announced,  in  the 
very  inception  of  this  work,  before  its 
organization  had  been  effected,  made 
the  announcement,  more  than  once — for 
God  had  given  him  revelations,  respect- 
ing this — that  a  marvelous  work  was 
about  to  go  forth  among  the  children 
of  men.  I  wonder  if  it  is  possible  for 
any  one  here  present,  who  has  f*-^ted  of 
the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  host,  to 
look  upon  the  condition  that  now  pre- 
vails, the  great  work  that  has  already 
been  accomplished,    and  not    say  the 


words  of  the  Prophet  have  been  ful- 
filled. 

In  1842,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  de- 
clared that  there  was  a  time 
coming  when  the  people  of  the 
Lord  should  go  up  into  the 
Rocky  Mountains,  and  he  also  made  the 
prediction,  at  that  time,  that  many  of 
the  Saints  who  were  then  living  should 
live  to  see  the  people  gather  in  this 
land,  which  was  then  a  desolate  bar- 
ren waste;  and  become  a  great  and 
mighty  commonwealth.  Who  is  there 
in  this  congregation,  or  among  the 
people  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  who 
is  lit  up  by  the  inspiration  of  heaven, 
who  cannot  see,  in  this  wonderful 
growth  and  in  the  development  that  is 
still  taking  place,  that  the  word  of  the 
Lord  has  not  failed?  Who  is  so  callous 
in  his  fellings  that  he  cannot  say,  with 
all  his  heart,  that  the  power  and  in- 
spiration of  the  Almighty  will  not 
fail?  Who  can  doubt  that  there  will 
be  still  greater  developments  and' still 
greater  things  brought  to  pass,  under 
the  direction  of  the  Priesthood  of  the 
Almighty,  than  that  which  has  already 
been  accomplished  in  the  history  of  the 
Church?  That  which  has  been  accom- 
plished is  truly  marvelous.  The  future, 
however,  must  be  full  of  remarkable 
events,  for  it  is  the  decree  of  God,  that 
this  work  of  the  latter  days  shall  forge 
to  the  front,  and  be  more  marvelous 
than  all  preceding  dispensations.  I  beg 
of  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  bear 
in  mind  the  solemn  fact  that  the  same 
divine  authority,  the  same  inspiration 
that  came  from  God,  our  Father,  which 
enabled  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  to 
speak  of  the  future  history  of  this 
work,  is  with  the  Israel  of  God  today. 
A  Prophet  of  God  stands  in  the  midst 
of  the  people  now,  clothed  upon  with 
every  gift,  key,  power,  and  authority, 
that  was  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  and  that  same  inspiration,  that 
same  power  to  penetrate  the  future,  to 
comprehend  the  purposes  of  the  Al- 
mighty, is  with  the  Priesthood  that  is 
in  our  midst  today.  We  should  honor 
that  Priesthood;  we  should  be  true  in 
our  feelings  to  the  authority  that  God 
has  placed  upon  the  earth,  and  feel  in 
our  hearts  that  we  will  sustain  it,  and 
that  we  will  stand  under  the  arms  of 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE, 


the  men  who  preside  over  us,  and  hold 
up  their  hands,  that  all  may  be  accom- 
plished that  God  has  promised.  There 
should  be  no  questioning-  of  the  wis- 
dom of  the  counsel  that  is  imparted  by 
the  servants  of  the  Lord;  but,  rather, 
we  should  look  back  over  the  history 
of  this  people  and  endeavor  to  under- 
stand what  has  been  accomplished  un- 
der the  direction  of  this  authority,  and 
when  we  comprehend  the  marvelous 
character  of  that  history,  we  will  feel 
in  our  hearts  to  trust  the  God  of 
heaven,  and  in  trusting  our  Father  in 
heaven,  we  honor  His  Priesthood  on 
earth,  and  faithfully  strive  to  carry 
out  the  counsel  of  that  Priesthood. 

I  have  thought,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  I  would  like  to  offer  a  few 
words  upon  a  matter  that  I  feel  is  of 
very  great  importance  in  the  midst  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  have  felt  the 
importance  of  this  subject  greatly,  and 
this  feeling  has  been  increased  within 
me  during  our  meetings  because  of  the 
trend  of  the  counsel  that  has  been  giv- 
en by  most  of  the  speakers  at  this  con- 
ference. Nearly  all  of  the  brethren 
have  referred  to  the  great  necessity 
that  exists  for  the  Latter-day  Saints 
to  give  special  care  to  the  rising  gen- 
eration. The  announcement  was  made, 
not  long  ago,  in  a  convention  of  minis- 
ters held  in  this  city,  that  nothing 
could  be  done  with  the  aged  Mormons, 
and  that  they  were  to  seek  after  the 
children  and  try  to  impress  upon  the 
minds  of  the  youth  of  the  community 
that  the  religion  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  was  false.  There  are  many 
persons  already  scattered  around 
among  our  people,  who  are  not  looked 
upon  as  ministers  or  missionaries,  who 
are  exerting  an  influence,  as  far  as 
they  can,  over  the  youth  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  to  poison  their  minds, 
in  order  to  win  them  from  the  faith, 
and,  I  suppose,  many  parents  have  ob- 
served it.  It  is  very  necessary  that 
there  be  an  influence  on  the  part  of 
parents  and  officers  in  the  Church  to 
counteract  those  influences  that  are  at 
work  among  the  youth. 

An  organization  has  been  established 
in  the  Church  known  as  the  Religion 
class,  but,  I  am  sorry  to  say,  there  is  a 
lack  of  interest  on  the  part  of  many 
of  the  people  in  relation  to  the  Religion 


classes  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  Sometimes  Bishops 
question  it;  sometimes  Stake  presidents 
question  it.  Occasionally  some  of  these 
men  and  others  in  authority 
in  the  Church,  stand  up  in 
opposition  to  that  which  has 
been  established  by  the  Council 
of  the  Apostles  and  of  the  Presidency 
of  the  Church,  and  say  there  is  no  room 
for  this  organization.  I  want  to  say  to 
this  congregation  that  it  is  the  duty  of 
fathers  and  mothers,  and  of  all  Church 
officers  to  lend  an  influence  in  favor  of 
Religion  classes.  The  Bishopric  of 
every  ward,  with  the  Sunday  school  su- 
perintendent of  the  ward,  constitute  a 
board  of  education  in  each  ward,  and 
they  should  seek  to  build  up  and  sus- 
tain these  classes.  This  Religion,  class 
movement  is  a  part  of  the  Church  edu- 
cational system.  It  is  under  the  direc- 
tion of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church, 
and  one  of  the  First  Presidency,  An- 
thon  H.  Lund,  is  the  general  superin- 
tendent of  the  religion  classes  of  the 
Church,  and  Apostle  Rudger  Clawson 
and  J.  M.  Tanner  the  superintendent 
of  Church  schools,  are  his  assistants, 
and  it  is  the  duty  of  the  stake  and 
ward  authorities,  as  well  as  the  parents, 
to  give  their  support  to  this  movement 
in  all  the  wards  of  the  stakes  of  Zion. 
The  aim  and  object  of  the  organization 
is  the  blessing  and  salvation  of  the 
rising  generation.  I  was  sent,  a  few 
days  ago,  to  examine  a  class  of  mis- 
sionaries in  one  of  our  Church  schools. 
Questions  were  asked  of  forty  young 
men,  concerning  their  understanding  of 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  and  I 
made  the  discovery  that,  in  almost 
every  instance,  those  young  men  were 
graduates  of  public  schools,  high 
schools,  colleges  and  universities;  but, 
in  almost  every  case,  they  made  the 
announcement  that  all  the  study  that 
they  had  given  to  the  Gospel  had  been 
while  attending  their  missionary  class. 
They  were  graduates  in  other  branches 
of  learning,  but  were  in  the  primary 
department,  to  a  considerable  extent, 
so  far  as  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  was 
concerned.  If  these  young  men  had  at- 
tended a  religion  class  during  the  time 
they  were  going  to  school,  instead  of 
being  without  an  understanding  of  the 
Gospel,  they  would  have  been  just  as 


ELDER  EDLON  S.  WELLS. 


57 


full  of  knowledge  concerning-  the  pur- 
poses of  the  Almighty,  as  they  were  of 
other  matters  to  which  they  had  giv- 
en attention.  Latter-day  Saints  should 
guard  against  stuffing  their  children 
with  worldly  learning,  and  leaving 
them  without  faith  in  God.  Let  us 
educate  our  children  in  art,  science 
and  literature,  but  above  all  else  in  a 
knowledge  of  God.  Remembering  that 
to  know  God  and  Jesus  Christ  is  life 
eternal.  The  religion  classes  are  to  be 
feeders  to  our  Church  schools,  as  well 
as  to  our  missionary  fields,  and  all  the 
other  organizations  in  the  Church,  and 
they  are  a  necessity  in  the  midst  of  the 
people.  Every  father  and  mother,  it 
seems  to  me,  ought  to  know  this.  We 
should  not  hesitate  to  ask  the  school 
trustees,  those  men  appointed  by  the 
people  to  manage  the  educational  af- 
fairs of  the  ward,  for  the  use  of  the 
public  school  buildings,  which  have 
been  erected  mainly  by  the  means  of 
the  l  atter-day  Saints,  for  holding  our 
religion  classes.  We  have  a  perfect 
right  to  ask  for  the  use  of  these  build- 
ir.gs  for  half  an  hour  or  an  hour,  as  the 
case  may  be,  once  or  twice  a  week,  or 
oftener,  if  necessary,  for  the  purpose 
of  religious  instruction,  which,  of 
course,  is  to  be  in  no  way  connected 
with  the  general  work  of  the  school. 
We  should  also  be  perfectly  willing  for 
the  Catholics,  Presbyterians,  or  any 
other  religious  denomination,  to  have 
the  use  of  these  school  buildings  to 
instruct  their  children  in  their  religion, 
should  they  desire  to  do  so.  The  school 
teachers,  those  of  them  who  belong  to 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Scints,  and  who  are  filled  with  zeal 
for  the  Gospel,  should  also  be  pressed 
into  service,  to  act  as  teachers  in  the 
religion  classes,  and  to  instruct  the 
children  in  the  principles  of  the  Gospel 
after  school  is  dismissed,  and  before 
the  children  leave  the  schoolroom,  as 
it  will  be  almost  impossible  to  get  them 
back  after  they  have  once  left  the 
building. 

I  thought  I  would  like  to  say  these 
few  words  in  favor  of  the  religion 
classes  of  the  Church,  and  if  a  few 
men  and  women  go  from  this  meeting 
to  their  homes  throughout  the  var- 
ious stakes  of  Zion,  with  a  determina- 
tion to  foster  and  encourage  and  build 
up  religion  classes,  I  will  feel  very 


thankful.  God  bless  you,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  RTJLON  S.  WELLS. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice 
in  the  opportunity  of  standing  before 
you  here  this  morning,  and  I  also  feel 
in  my  heart  to  endorse  the  excellent 
remarks  that  have  been  made  by  the 
brethren  who  have  just  addressed  you. 

I,  too,  like  Brother  Penrose,  feel  that 
I  have  come  into  this  work  for  "keeps," 
and  I  propose  to  devote  my  talents  irt 
helping  to  establish  the  kingdom  of 
God  upon  tlje  earth.  I  rejoice  in  the 
testimony  of  the  truth,  and  in  the  mag- 
nitude of  this  great  and  marvelous 
w-ork  which  our  Father  in  heaven  has 
set  his  hand  to  do  in  the  day  and  age 
in  which  we  live.  Of  all  the  things  yet 
to  be  accomplished  in  connection  with 
this  great  work,  nothing  has  been  re- 
ferred to  that  is  greater,  to  my  mind, 
than  the  one  referred  to  by  Brother 
Penrose,  when  he  spoke  about  the  work 
that  was  to  be  accomplished  with  us 
as  individuals — the  purification  of  our 
.own  selves.  If  this  work  will  accom- 
plish the  purification  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  and  cause  them  to  be  bet- 
ter men  and  women  and  cause  them  to 
advance  and  grow  in  the  knowledge  of 
the  things  of  God,  what  a  great  and 
marvelous  work  it  is  in  very  deed. 

During  the  few  moments  I  shall  stand 
before  you,  I  wish  to  call  your  atten- 
tion to  one  particular  thing,  whereby 
the  Latter-day  Saints  and  their  chil- 
dren can  become  better  men  and  wo- 
men. If  we  were  to  labor  for  years  and 
accomplished  nothing  else,  what  a 
great  and  glorious  thing  it  would  be. 
That  one  thing  to  which  I  refer  is 
the  keeping  of  one  of  the  command- 
ments which  the  Lord  thundered  down 
from  Mount  Sinai  in  the  days 
of  ancient  Israel,  when  it  was  written 
upon  those  tablets  of  stone,  "Thou 
shalt  not  take  the  name  of  the  Lord 
thy  God  in  vain;  for  the  Lord  will  not 
hold  him  guiltless  that  taketh  His  name 
in  vain."  In  my  own  observations,  both 
here  at  home  and  in  the  various  set- 
tlements in  the  different  Stakes  of 
Zion,  in  fact,  almost  every  place,  I  have 
heard,  in  a  greater  or  less  degree,  the 
name  of  the  Lord  is  being  profaned  by 
the  rising  generation,  and,  sometimes,. 


58' 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


by  those  who  have  advanced  in  years, 
who  are  old  enough  to  know  better.  I 
wish  to  emphasize  with  all  the  stress  I 
am  capable  of  the  necessity  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day  Saints  overcoming   this  evil. 
Many  have  not  a  sufficient  reverence, 
for  the  things  of  the  Lord  and  in  using 
the  names  of  Deity.   We  ought  to  cul- 
tivate reverence  among  us,  and  when- 
ever the  name  of  the  Lord  is  taken  up- 
on cur  lips  it  should  be  done  in  rever- 
ence and  respect.  We  ought  to  remem- 
ber that  He  is  our  Creator,  that  He 
is  the  Father  of  everyone  of  us,  the 
Creator  of  the  heavens  and  the  earth, 
and  all  things  that  in  them  are.  We 
ought  to  remember  that  He  has  com- 
manded us  that  we  should  not  take 
His  name  in  vain.    I  do  not  wish  this 
congregation  to  become  impressed  with 
the  thought,  for  a  moment,  that  this 
people  is  given  to  swearing  more  than 
any  other  people;  but  I  wish  to  say 
this:    That  the  people  in  these  west- 
ern states,  in  the  midst  of  these  moun- 
tain districts  and  throughout  the  min- 
ing    districts   of  this  intermountain 
country,  especially,  use  more  profanity 
than  is  used  in  the  more  thickly  set- 
tled portions  of  our  country.    In  my 
travels  in  foreign  countries  I  have  nev- 
er heard  so  much  profanity  as  I  have 
heard  right  here  in  Zion.     I  do  not 
mean  to  say  that  it  is  the  Latter-day 
Saints  themselves  that  are  given  more 
particularly  to  profanity:   but,  on  the 
contrary,  I  wish  to  say  that  it  is  more 
frequently  heard  among    those  that 
have  not  received  the  Gospel.  Neverthe- 
less, too  much  profanity  is  used  among 
the  Latter-day  Saints  also.    We,  as  a 
people,  have    entered  into  covenants 
with  the  Lord,  have  exercised  faith  in 
Him,  have  repented  of  our  sins  and 
have  gone   down  into   the   waters  of 
baptism,  and  for  what  purpose?  That 
we     might     obtain     a     remission  of 
sins,  that     we      might     be  forgiven 
for  all  things  that  we  may. have  done 
that  was  displeasing  in  the  sight  of 
God,  that  when  we  are  summoned  be- 
fore the  Great  Judge  of  all  we  might 
stand  faultless  before  Him.  I  want  to 
bear  testimony  here  today  that  it  does 
not  matter  how  many  times  we  may 
have  repented  and  been  baptized,  or 
whether  we  have  been  baptized  at  all, 
for  when  the  time  shall  come,  and  we 


are  brought  up  before  the  judgment  bar 
of  God,  if  we  have  indulged  in  the  hab- 
it of  profaning  His  holy  name — I  want 
to  bear  testimony  that  we  will  not  be 
found  guiltless  when  we  stand  before 
the  judgment  seat.  That  was  the  way  it 
was  thundered  down  in  the  time  of  an- 
cient Israel,  and  delivered  to  that  peo- 
ple, through  the  Prophet  Moses,  and 
this  commandment  is  equally  binding 
upon  the  Latter-day  Saints,  for  it  has 
not  been  done  away  with.  Therefore, 
if  we  want  to  stand  spotless  before  the 
throne  of  God,  we  must  eradicate  this 
evil  from  our  midst  and  exercise  all  our 
power  and  influence  to  do  so,  that  it 
may  no  longer  be  said,  as  some  de- 
clare, that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are 
not  reverential  in  using  the  names,  of 
Deity. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  a  reformation 
in  this  respect  is  very  needful  among 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  if  we  la- 
bor to  this  end  and  accomplish  our  pur- 
pose, what  a  great  and  grand  thing  it 
would  be.  What  utility  can  there  be  in 
profaning  the  name  of  the  Lord?  Will  it 
distinguish  a  man  among  his  fellow- 
men  or  gain  him  respect?  Is  there  a 
boy  here  who  has  received  any  more 
respect  from  his  companions  by  pro- 
faning the  name  of  the  Lord?  No. 
They  would  not  respect  you  a  bit  more 
for  committing  this  wrong  act;  such  a 
boy  would  not  even  gain  the  favor  of 
his  own  clique,  by  so  doing,  to  say 
nothing  of  the  opinion  others  would 
have  of  him.  A  person  that  indulges 
in  this  bad  habit  is  almost  sure  to 
offend  somebody;  there  is  one  who  sits 
on  high  who  will  also  be  offended,  and 
what  will  be  the  consequence  of  this, 
of  offending  our  Father  in  heaven? 
Our  young  men  go  to  the  various  col- 
leges, and  some  become  graduates  of 
great  institutions  of  learning;  but  they 
are  no  more  accomplished  in  swearing 
than  the  most  ignorant  among  us.  It 
is  no  mark  of  culture,  and  has  no 
merit  whatever.  It  does  not  even 
enable  us  to  express  our  ideas  with 
any  more  force.  If  we  desire  to  ob- 
tain a  good  knowledge  of  the 
English ,  language,  it  is  not 
necessary  that  we  learn  to  profane  the 
name  of  the  Lord.  We  are  admonished 
not  to  swear  at  all.  It  is  an  idle  use 
of  words  and  a  thing  we  ought  to 
abominate  and  avoid. 


ELDER    HYRUM    M.  SMITH. 


59 


I  do  not  feel  justified  in  occupying 
any  more  time  this  morning,  for  there 
are  several  Apostles  here,  from  whom 
.you  no  doubt  wish  to  hear.  I  know 
this  is  the  work  of  God,  and  that  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  sent  of  God 
to  usher  in  this  great  and  glorious  dis- 
pensation. I  know  that  the  influence 
of  this  Gospel  is  to  help  us  purify  our- 
selves and  overcome  the  evils  that  are 
in  our  midst,  and  that  we  may  devote 
■our  energy  to  endeavoring  to  overcome 
these  evils  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  there  is  an 
item  I  would  like  to  speak,  of,  for  the 
benefit  of  some  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  Many  words  of  instruction 
have  been  spoken,  and  I  like  to  speak 
them  myself;  but,  somehow,  I  cannot 
always  get  through  a  conference  or 
meeting  without  hearing  a  word  or  two 
of  condemnation. 

I  well  remember  the  remarks  of 
Brother  John  W.  Taylor  here,  while 
out  in  one  of  the  missions.  There  was 
quite  a  congregation  of  outsiders  pres- 
ent, and  he  was  endeavoring  to  teach 
them  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
was  telling  them  what  the  Latter-day 
Saints  believed  in.  He  was  speaking  on 
the  first  principles  of  the  Gospel,  and 
was  telling  them  that  it  was  necessary 
to  yield  obedience  to  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord  and  be  baptized  for 
the  remission  of  sins,  and  have  hands 
laid  upon  them,  by  those  holding  the 
proper  authority,  for  the  reception  of 
the  Holy  Ghost.  While  he  was  thus 
speaking  two  or  three  of  the  congrega- 
tion, as  I  remember  it,  arose  to  their 
feet,  and,  with  a  look  of  contempt  on 
their  faces,  started  to  leave  the  room. 
Brother  Taylor  then  added,  "We  also 
believe  that  every  man  and  every  wo- 
man who  enters  a  house  of  worship 
ought  to  have  enough  good 
manners  and  breeding  to  remain 
until  the  services  are  concluded.' 
I  thought  that  was  pretty  good 
doctrine,  and  I  hope  the  Latter-day 
Saints  believe  and  accept  it;,  but  in 
case  that  some  of  us  had  forgotten  it, 
T  just  mentioned  it  for  our  benefit. 

I  was  delighted  with  the  testimony 
of  Brother  Penrose,  and,  in  listening  to 


the  same  I  was  hoping  that  when  I 
got  to-  be  as  old  as  he  is  I  would  also 
have  the  same  testimony  to  bear,  and 
that  I  shall  have  passed  the  most  of 
my  life  in  preaching  the  Gospel  and 
trying  to  do  what  good  I  can  in  my 
calling.  (Turning  to  Brother  Penrose). 
How  old  are  you  Brother  Penrose? 
Over  70  years  of  age,  and  yet  Brother 
Penrose  does  not  look  to  be  so  old;  but 
he  could  yet  make  many  young  men 
perspire  freely,  were  they  to  accompany 
him  in  a  walk.  He  has  a  testimony 
of  the  truth  and  has  been  faithful  all 
the  days  of  his  life,  thus  far,  and,  evi- 
dently, will  be  the  remainder  of  his 
life.  May  God  grant  him  many  years 
of  life,  that  he  may  still  defend,  in  nis 
champion  way,  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
He  spoke  of  the  union  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  They  adhere  together;  they  all 
cling  around  one  standard,  because  they 
receive  their  inspiration  from  one 
source. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  God  is  at 
the  head  of  this  great  work,  and  He  is 
exalting  His  people.  Look  at  the  mul- 
titude here  and  in  the  Tabernacle  to- 
day who  have  gathered  '  together  to 
hear  the  word  of  the  Lord.  It  is  with 
the  spirit  of  envy  that  some  of  those 
not  of  our  faith  witness  our  unity  in 
assembling  together  to  be  instructed  in 
the  ways  of  the  Lord.  We  are  Latter- 
day  Saints,  brethren  and  sisters,  we 
are  one  people,  no  matter  where  we  are 
or  how  we  may  be  scattered,  and  there 
is  only  one  kind  of  "Mormons,"  only 
one  kind  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  have  a  clipping  here  from  a  news- 
paper, with  reference  to  a  paper  which 
was  read  by  a  minister  in  a  religious 
convention,  or  convention  of  ministers, 
which  I  will  read.   It  says: 

"The  paper  of  the  day  was  by  Rev. 
Charles  J.  Godsman,  pastor  of  the  Pres- 
byterian Church  at  Auburn.  His  sub- 
ject was  'The  Essential  "Unity  of  the 
Christian  Church.'  He  named  the  dif- 
ferent varieties  of  churches:  Six  kinds 
of  Adventists,  seven  kinds  of  Catholics, 
twelve  kinds  of  Presbyterians,  thirteen 
of  Baptists,  sixteen  of  Lutherans  and 
seventeen  of  Methodists,  with  100  sep- 
arate entities  of  churches  besides.  The 
speaker  deplored  this  condition  of 
things  and  looked  upon  it  as  contrary 
to  the  Scriptures.  He  maintained,  how- 
ever, that  there  was  a  real,  deep  union 
of  all  beliefs,  notwithstanding  this  out- 
ward variety.  The  paper  was  well  re- 
ceived." 


GO 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


How  many  01  them  realize  that  this 
condition  of  things  is  entirely  contrary 
to  Scripture?  And  of  those  who  did 
realize  this  how  many  were  there 
who  had  the  moral  courage  to  say 
that  it  was  wrong  and  contrary  to 
scripture,  that  in  such  a  condition  of 
separation  and  disunion  there  could  be 
no  real  union  in  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ?  They  dare  not  come  out 
and  stand  on  the  principle  of  the  thing 
and  say  that  it  is  entirely 
contrary  to  the  will  of  God. 
The  Latter-day  Saints  dare  do 
it,  because  they  know  it  and  they 
are  one  people  and  have  not  divided  in- 
to a  dozen  or  more  sects,  there  being 
but  one  kind  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  as  I  said. 
God  is  exalting  us,  and  I  would  like 
to  caution  you  not  to  seek  to  exalt 
yourselves,  but  to  leave  that  to  God, 
who  will  exalt  us  quickly  and  grandly 
enough,  inasmuch  as  we  seek  to  keep 
His  laws  and  commandments. 

One  word  to  the  young  men  and 
young  women.  Much  has  been  said 
with  reference  to  the  rearing 
of  children  and  teaching  them 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel. 
In  relation  to  the  Religion  Classes 
brethren  and  sisters,  I  would  add,  there 
ought  to  be  a  Religion  Class  in  the 
home  of  every  Latter-day  Saint.  Every 
member  of  the  Church  ought  to  have  a 
Religion  Class,  where  the  children  are 
being  taught  the  principles  of  the  Gos- 
pel. I  want  to  say  to  you  young  men 
and  young  women  of  which 
this  congregation  is,  in  the  main,  made 
up,  that  belief  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  very  first  step;  and  the 
only  way  you  will  ever  come  to  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth  is  by  first  be- 
lieving the  testimony  of  vour  parents 
and  of  the  servants  of  God,  no  matter 
who  or  where  they  are.  You  have  first 
got  to  believe  their  testimony  and  have 
faith  in  their  words;  then  you  will 
come  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth.  The 
Lord  will  not  condescend  to  come  down 
in  person  to  each  of  us  to  convince  us 
that  this  is  His  Church;  not  by  any 
means.  We  must  believe  the  words 
and  testimonies.  So  it  has  been  from 
the  beginning.  The  sons  of  Adam  had 
to  believe  the  words  of  Adam  and  to 
put  into   practice  the  things  taught 


them  before  they  could  know.  You 
young  men  and  young  women  who  may 
not  have  a  testimony  must  put  into 
practice  what  you  are  taught  before 
you  can  obtain  a  witness  of  the  div- 
inity of  this  work. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you  and  cause 
you  to  desire  a  knowledge  of  the  Gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ  above  all  else,  which 
I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

I  am  very  pleased  indeed  to  have  the 
opportunity  of  meeting  with  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  I  have  listened  with 
pleasure,  interest  and  attention  to  that 
which  has  been  said. 

Brother  Taylor  requested  Brother 
Penrose  to  occupy  his  time.  Some  peo- 
ple are  always  inclined  to  criticise,  and, 
as  Brother  Penrose  talked  a  little  long- 
er than  the  rest  of  us,  some  may  go 
away  and  find  fault  with  his  talking 
so  long.  I  have  given  much  advice  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints  in  my  time,  and 
one  of  the  principle  items  was  never  to 
criticise  any  one  but  ourselves.  I  be- 
lieve in  fault-finding  for  breakfast, 
dinner  and  supper,  but  with  our  own 
dear  selves. 

I  endorse  all  that  has  been  said  here 
this  morning.  I  am  delighted  to  see  this 
building  full  of  Latter-day  Saints.  It  is 
a  testimony  and  a  confirmation  of  the 
remarks  of  our  Prophet  yesterday,  that 
Zlon  is  growing,  and  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  increasing  in  faith  and 
good  works  and  are  laboring  for  the 
advancement  of  the  kingdom  of  God.  I 
rejoice  exceedingly  in  being  here  with 
you  today  to  lift  up  my  voice  in  testi- 
mony of  the  divinity  of  the  work  of 
God  in  which  we  are  engaged.  I  re- 
joice that  the  testimony  of  the  Gospel 
grows  and  increases  within  me  day  by 
day;  for  every  day  of  my  life  it  seems 
as  though  the  Lord  blesses  me  with  ad- 
ditional knowledge.  I  rejoice,  as  I  said 
the  other  evening  in  Priesthood  meet- 
ing, that  we  stand  as  a  united  whole. 
I  rejoice  that  the  adversary,  who  in- 
spired the  men  to  kill  our  Prophet  and 
Patriarch,  has  been  routed.  I  rejoice  in 
thinking  that  a  son  of  the  martyred 
Patriarch  stands  at  the  head  of  this 
Church.    I  rejoice  that  a  love   has  al- 


ELDER  BEN  E.  RICH. 


61 


ways  existed  in  the  hearts  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  for  all  the  Prophets  of 
God  since  the  organization  of  the 
Church  down  to  the  present  time.  I 
rejoice  in  the  love  and  confidence  the 
Latter-day  Saints  have  for  the  First 
Presidency  of  the  Church,  and  for  the 
Apostles.  I  rejoice  in  the  testimony 
that  is  borne  in  my  heart  that  all  of 
the  authorities  of  the  Church — the  First 
Presidency,  Apostles,  Seventies,  Stake 
presidents  and  ward  authorities, 
as  well  as  the  presidents  of  the  vari- 
ous auxiliary  organizations  —  are 
seeking-  for  and  desiring  the  ad- 
vancement of  God's  work.  I  rejoice 
in  seeing  the  harriers  broken  down 
whereby  the  Gospel  may  be  carried  to 
all  the  nations  of  the  earth.  I  rejoice 
in  the  testimony  in  my  heart  that,  as 
was  stated  by  Brother  Penrose,  the 
opening  in  Japan  will  prove  the  opening 
of  the  oriental  world,  not  merely  the 
opening  of  the  little  islands  that  form 
the  nation  of  Japan,  but  it  shall  also 
lead  to  the  Gospel  being  preached  in 
China  and  other  oriental  nations. 

One  of  the  pleasures  I  had  recently 
was  the  privilege  of  baptising  a  gen- 
tleman who  speaks  the  Corean  lan- 
guage. His  wife  also  speaks  that 
language,  and  I  expect  she  will  also 
soon  join  the  Church.  I  believe  this  man 
will  soon  be  an  instrument  in  the  hands 
of  God  in  preaching  the  Gospel  in 
Corea.  I  also  met  a  man  that  has 
written  considerable  in  a  paper  in  our 
favor,  stating,  among  other  things, 
that  we  are  the  only  people  that  teach 
as  the  Bible  teaches.  This  man  has, 
for  many  years,  been  taking  trips  into 
China,  trying  to  advocate  improve- 
ments in  that  country.  He  looks  dif- 
ferent from  the  ordinary  Japanese.  He 
is  a  very  large  man,  and  looks  like  an 
oriental.  He  wears  his  hair  long,  and 
forms  it  into  a  cue  when  he  takes  his 
trips  to  China.  I  think  he,  among  oth- 
ers, will  also  come  to  a  knowledge  of 
the  truth.  Brother  Snow,  our  late 
President,  who  passed  away  since  I  left 
Salt  Lake  City  last  year,  said,  when  I 
was  called  to  go  to  Japan,  "I  feel  in 
my  heart  that  this  will  be  the  opening 
wedge  for  the  Gospel  in  that  country." 
Brother  Penrose  was  just  saying  he 
believed  this  would  be  the  case,  and  I 
want  to  say  to  you  that  I  believe  it, 
and  I  believe  it  with  all  my  heart. 


I  rejoice  in  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  knowledge  that 
God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and 
that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  Prophet  of  God. 
I  rejoice  in  being  permitted  to  attend 
the  first  general  conference  presided 
over  by  the  son  of  the  martyred  Patri- 
arch. 

May  God  bless  each  and  every  one  of 
us,  that  as  we  grow  and  increase  we 
may  grow  in  the  knowledge  of  the  Gos- 
pel, and  that  we  shall  have  a  determin- 
ation to  serve  God  and  carry  out  in 
very  deed  the  teachings  of  the  Savior; 
to  let  our  light  so  shine  tnat  men  see- 
ing our  good  works  shall  glorify  God. 
If  we  set  an  example  worthy  of  imita- 
tion it  is  sure  to  have  its  effects.  I  re- 
ceived a  letter  from  a  man  in  London, 
stating  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  were 
the  only  people,  so  far  as  he  knew,  who 
carried  their  daily  beliefs  into  their 
daily  life,  as  though  they  believed  what 
they  taught.  Well,  God  bless  you,  one 
and  all;  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

The  time  is  far  spent,  there  is  little  re- 
maining. 

Benediction  by  Elder  John  W.  Tay- 
lor. 


IN  THE  TABERNACLE. 
Sunday,  10  a.  m. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

We  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet, 
To  guide  us  in  these  latter  days; 

We  thank  Thee  for  sending  the  Gospel, 
To  lighten  our  minds  with  its  rays. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  William 
Budge 

Singing  by  the  choir: 

Ye  simple  souls  who  stray 
Far  from  the  path  of  peace. 

I 

ELDER  BEN.  E.  RICH. 

(President  of  the  Southern  States 
mission.) 

It  has  been  my  privilege  for  some 
little  time  back  to  labor  in  what  is 
known  as  the  Southern  States  mis- 
sion. The  field  covered  by  the  South- 
ern States  mission  is  rather  large,  in- 
cluding the  states  of  Ohio,  Virginia, 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


North  Carolina,  Soutn  Carolina,  Flori- 
da, Alabama,  Georgia,  Mississippi,  Ten- 
nessee and  Kentucky;  so  that  it  reach- 
es from  Lake  Erie  on  the  north  to  the 
Gulf  of  Mexico  on  the  south,  and  from 
the  Mississippi  river  to  the  Atlantic 
ocean.  Since  I  have  been  there,  from 
1,050  to  1,100  Elders  have  labored  in 
the  Southern  States  mission.  I  be- 
lieve that  I  have  traveled  140,000  miles. 
I  have  not  the  exact  number,  but  be- 
tween 3,500  and  4,000  baptisms  have  tak- 
en place  during  that  time.  We  have 
published  and  distributed  among  the 
people  1,500,000  tracts,  70,000  of  the 
Voice  of  Warning,  10,000  Orson  Pratt's 
Works,  7,000  Books  of  Mormon,  55,000 
of  a  little  work  called  Durant,  besides 
about  20,000  miscellaneous  works  bear- 
ing upon  the  principles  of  the  Gospel. 
I  believe  there  is  not  a  house,  outside 
of  the  larger  cities  of  the  south,  where 
the  Mormon  Elders  have  not  tapped  at 
the  door.  As  a  rule,  the  Elders  are 
happy  in  their  labors;  all  of  them  are 
who  have  the  spirit  of  their  mission, 
and  it  is  only  occasionally  that  I  have 
found  an  Elder  destitute  of  that  spirit. 
The  Gospel  has  been  preached,  many 
people  have  rendered  obedience  to  the 
principles  of  the  same,  and  in  return 
they  have  borne  testimony  to  their 
relatives  and  neighbors  that  God  has 
given  them  a  testimony  concerning  the 
divinity  of  this  work.  The  people  of 
the  south  are  a  good  people.  As  a 
rule,  they  are  a  religious  people.  They 
are  not  a  hypocritical  people.  If  they 
are  your  enemy,  they  let  you  know  it. 
We  have  made  some  very  strong  and 
influential  friends  in  the  south;  and, 
as  is  the  case  wherever  the  Gospel  is 
preached,  we  have  also  made  some 
very  strong  and  influential  enemies.  I 
believe  that  I  have  three  invitations 
there  now  to  be  killed,  but  I  have  been 
so  busy  that  I  have  not  had  time  to 
fill  any  of  them  yet.  We  have  lost  four 
Elders  by  death  during  the  last  four 
years;  and  considering  the  large  num- 
ber that  we  have  had  laboring  in  the 
south,  and  the  difference  there  is  be- 
tween the  climate  in  the  valleys  of  the 
mountains  and  down  around  the  ever- 
glades of  Florida,  I  think  the  Lord  has 
blessed  us  exceedingly  in  not  allowing 
more  of  our  Elders  to  lay  down  their 
lives  in  the  south.    The  most  of  our 


trouble  comes  from  the  ministers.  If 
they  would  remember  the  command- 
ments of  God,  and  stop  their  lying  and 
stop  bearing  false  witness  against  their 
neighbor::,  we  would  have  less  trouble 
in  the  south.  Probably  the  ministers 
of  Salt  Lake  would  be  surprised  if  I 
should  tell  them  that  I  have  a  book,  al- 
most the  size  of  a  family  Bible,  con- 
taining an  account  of  all  the  mobbings 
of  the  Mormon  Elders  in  the  south,  and 
85  per  cent  of  the  mobs  have  been  head- 
ed by  ministers.  When  our  Elders  go 
into  the  large  cities  to  preach  the  Gos- 
pel without  purse  or  scrip,  these  min- 
isters go  to  the  officers  of  the  law  and 
remind  them  that  there  are  laws 
against  beggars,  against  vagrants,  and 
they  ask  that  our  Elders  be  arrested 
when  they  have  no  visible  means  of 
support.  They  went  so  far  in  one  of 
the  legislatures  of  the  south  as  to  in- 
fluence a  man  to  introduce  a  measure 
making  it  a  crime  to  preach  the  Gospel 
without  a  salary!  I  think  if  Christ  and 
the  Apostles  were  to  come  back  and 
meet  some  of  these  pretended  repre- 
sentatives of  Jesus,  He  would  not  labor 
three  years  before  the  cry  would  go 
up,  Crucify  him!    Crucify  him! 

I  rejoiced  in  listening  to  the  testi- 
monies of  the  Elders  yesterday.  I  want 
to  refer  briefly  to  the  remarks  of  one 
of  them  concerning  the  Congress  of 
Religions,  held  during  the  period  of 
the  World's  fair,  when  the  representa- 
tive sent  by  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  was  rejected.  It 
is  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  this 
world  when  the  representatives  of  all 
the  religious  faiths  of  the  world  came 
together  in  a  Congress.  The  pagan,  the 
Jew,  the  various  denominations 
throughout  Christendom,  the  heathen 
priests — all  were  there.  There  was  one, 
and  only  one,  who  did  not  receive  of 
their  courtesies.  There  was  one 
who  was  not  of  the  world!  Jesus 
Christ  said  concerning  His  people,  "If 
ye  were  of  the  world,  the  world  would 
love  his  own:  but  because  ye  are  not 
of  the  world,  but  I  have  chosen  you  out 
of  the  world,  therefore  the  world  hat- 
eth  you.'  If  ever  I  had  cause  for  re- 
joicing, it  was  when  it  was  demonstrat- 
ed, the  only  time  in  the  history  ot  the 
world  when  these  words  of  Christ  had 
a  chance  to  be  verified,  that  we  were 


i^LDSR  JOSEPH  A.  McRAE. 


6 


the  people  who  were  not  of  the  world. 
We  are  the  ones  who  claim  that  God 
has  revealed  His  Gospel  anew  from 
the  heavens,  and  that  it  is  builded  up- 
on the  rock  of  revelation  from  God. 
Those  who  were  instruments  in  causing 
the  word  to  go  forth  1800  years  ago  to 
crucify  the  representative  of  modern 
revelation  are  the  ones  today  who  are 
engaged  in  the  same  cause.  I  have 
often  said  that  the  devil  does  not  care 
how  many  dead  prophets  the  people  of 
this  or  any  other  generation  believe  in; 
but  when  God  reveals  His  mind  and 
will  anew,  then  it  is  the  devil's  busi- 
ness to  blind  the  eyes  of  the  people  and 
stop  their  ears  against  the  prophet  of 
God  who  comes  to  deliver  that  message 
to  mankind.  It  was  mibeluef  in  modern 
revelation  anciently  that  was  the  curse 
of  the  generation  to  whom  Christ  came, 
and  He  told  them  that  their  condemna- 
tion was  that  they  would  build  syna- 
gogues to  the  memory  of  the  dead  pro- 
phets, but  stood  ready  to  crucify  the 
living  ones;  and  I  believe  that  if  Christ 
came  again  He  would  have  the  same 
message  to  deliver  throughout  the 
length  and  breadth  of  Christendom. 

I  rejoice  in  the  work  of  the  ministry. 
I  have  enjoyed  my  labors.  I  thank  God 
for  the  testimony  He  has  given  me  con- 
cerning the  divinity  of  this  work.  I 
know  that  if  I  am  faithful  to  that  tes- 
timony to  the  end  of  my  days  I  will  be 
saved  and  exalted  in  the  celestial  king- 
dom of  God.  That  we  all  may  be  faith- 
ful to  the  end  of  our  days,  and  reap 
this  great  and  everlasting  reward,  is 
my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  A.  McRAE. 
(President  of  the  Colorado  Mission.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire  an 
interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers  for 
the  few  moments  that  I  shall  speak  to 
you,  that  I  may  be  under  the  inspira- 
tion of  our  Father  in  heaven.  It  has 
been  my  pleasure  to  labor  for  a  short 
time  in  the  Colorado  mission,  and  the 
time  that  I  have  been  there  has  been 
the  pleasantest  of  my  life.  The  Colo- 
rado mission  embraces  a  great  deal 
of  territory.  Many  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  do  not  realize  its  extent.  We  go 
from  Canada  on  the  north  to  Mexico  on 
the  south,  and  from  the  Missouri  river 


to  California,  including  the  states  of 
North  Dakota,  South  Dakota,  Nebras- 
ka, Wyoming  and  Colorado,  and  the 
territories  of  New  Mexico  and  Arizona. 
The  people  who  live  in  this  locality  are 
comparatively  a  new  people.  The 
country  is  also  comparatively  new — 
about  the  same  as  Utah.  The  people 
who  have  settled  it  came  there  for  the 
benefit  of  their  health  or  for  the  pur- 
pose of  making  money;  and  there  is  a 
great  indifference  among  them  with 
respect  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
We  have  no  persecution  to  meet.  I 
sometimes  wish  we  had;  for  I  believe 
if  we  had  a  little  it  might  cause  the 
honest  in  heart  to  look  at  us  and  see 
what  we  really  are  teaching.  As  it  is, 
it  requires  a  great  effort  on  the  part  of 
the  Elders  to  get  the  people  to  take  any 
interest  in  us  whatever.  W  e  have  a 
very  healthy  climate.  I  do  not  think 
there  has  been  an  Elder  taken  home 
dead  from  the  Colorado  mission,  and, 
so  far  as  I  know,  there  has  only  been 
one  case  where  an  Elder  has  died  with- 
in a  few  weeks  after  his  return.  We 
have  eight  stakes  of  Zion  situated  with- 
in the  borders  of  our  mission,  and  it 
is  a  difficult  mission  to  preach  the 
Gospel  in,  for  we  find  so  many  people 
who  have  drifted  away  from  the 
Church,  and  who  have  denied  that 
they  ever  had  a  testimony.  This  class 
of  people  do  us  a  great  deal  of  injury. 
On  the  other  hand,  we  find  people  who 
have  drifted  away  from  the  body  of  the 
Church,  having  forgotten  lh;ir  cove- 
nants, but  who  are  brought  back  into 
the  fold  by  the  labors  of  the  Elders, 
and  they  rejoin  the  stakes  of  Zion,  pay 
their  tithes  and  offerings,  and  become 
active  members.  In  this  way  we  are 
trying  to  do  some  good;  but  in  some 
instances  the  efforts  of  the  Elders  are 
not  realized  because  their  labors  are 
among  this  class  of  people.  We  find 
many  of  our  young  sisters  who  have 
married  outside  of  the  pales  of  the 
Church.  They  come  to  us  with  tears 
in  their  eyes,  and  say  they  wish  they 
had  their  life  to  lead  over  again.  In 
my  experience  in  the  mission  field  I 
have  got  the  first  woman  to  see  yet 
who  was  happy  in  this  kind  of  a  union, 
and  I  have  met  hundreds  of  them.  We 
have  between  forty  and  fifty  Elders 
doing  the  work  in  these  five  states  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


two  territories,  and  they  are  kept  busy. 
Some  parts  of  our  mission  have  to  re- 
main without  Elders,  because  we  do  not 
have  sufficient  to  preach  the  Gospel 
there.  There  are  no  Elders  in  North 
and  South  Dakota,  nor  in  Wyoming,  at 
the  present  time.  There  are  thirteen 
Elders  in  Nebraska,  where  we- ought  to 
have  at  least  twenty-five  or  thirty; 
but  we  realize  that  it  is  difficult  to  get 
the  number  of  Elders  to  preach  the 
Gospel  that  should  be  sent  out  into  the 
mission  fields.  It  would  be  a  difficult 
thing  for  me  to  estimate  the  number 
of  conversions,  or  the  amount  of  litera- 
ture that  has  been  distributed,  as  I 
have  not  the  figures  with  me.  It  is 
difficult  to  estimate  the  number  of  con- 
versions, for  the  reason  that  so  many 
have  been  brought  back  into  the 
Church,  or  have  been  led  to  renew  their 
covenants. 

I  know  that  this  is  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and,  like  the  Apostle 
Paul,  I  know  it  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation.  I  have  joy  and  satis- 
faction in  my  labors  in  preaching  the 
Gospel  unto  the  people  of  the  world, 
and  in  bearing  my  testimony  wherever 
it  is  possible  for  my  voice  to  be  raised. 
I  wish  to  give  my  life  to  the  service 
of  the  Lord.  The  only  desire  of  my 
heart  is  to  do  what  good  I  can  for  my 
fellowmen,  and  to  ,preach  the  Gospel 
unto  those  who  know  not  Jesus  Christ. 
I  have  been  very  much  interested  in  the 
conference  thus  far,  and  to  me  it  is 
a  feast.  I  can  appreciate  the  words  of 
Apostle  Grant,  when  he  f'iu  that  no 
one  but  those  who  are  deprived  of 
these  blessings  can  realize  and  under- 
stand to  the  fullest  extent  the  blessings 
that  are  bestowed  upon  them  by  hav- 
ing the  privilege  of  attending  these 
conferences.  I  know  that  I  am  spirit- 
ually fed.  I  know  that  it  does  me  good 
when  I  return  to  my  mission  field,  and 
I  feel  that  the  Elders  who  are  labor- 
ing with  me  partake  of  the  same  spirit 
and  are  actuated  by  the  self-same  tes- 
timony that  has  been  given  at  this  con- 
ference. They  write  to  me,  "Attend 
all  the  conferences,  and  do  not  miss 
any  of  them;  for  we  feel  that  when  you 
return  to  the  mission  you  will  carry  the 
same  spirit  with  you."  I  pray  that  I 
shall,  and  I  pray  that  we  will  all  carry 
the  spirit  of  this  conference  with  us  to 
our  homes,  that  it  may  be  a  blessing 


to  us  and  our  children  and  to  those 
who  have  not  the  privilege  of  attending 
the  conferences.  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  J.  G.  DUFFIN. 

(President  of  the  Southwestern  States 
Mission.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  grate- 
ful to  my  Father  in  heaven  for  the 
privilege  of  meeting  with  you  in  this 
annual  conference,  and  I  trust  that  the 
Spirit  of  God  will  enable  me  to  briefly 
report  the  work  of  the  Lord  in  the 
Southwestern  States  mission.  That 
mission  is  one  of  magnificent  distances 
and  of  liberal-minded  people.  The 
people  who  live  in  the  great  majority 
of  the  states  embraced  within  the  ter- 
ritory that  we  cover  have  come  from 
the  various  states  of  the  Union  and 
from  almost  every  nation  under  hea- 
ven. They  have  come  from  among  the 
best  classes  of  the  people,  and  have 
drifted  westward,  largely,  I  believe,  be- 
cause of  the  liberal  spirit  that  pre- 
vails in  the  western  part  of  the  United 
States.  On  this  account  we  meet  with 
but  little  persecution,  and  wherever  our 
Elders  go  they  are  treated  well,  as  a 
rule.  The  people  generally  are  reli- 
giously inclined.  We  are  meeting  with 
fair  success  in  that  mission,  not  alone 
measured  by  the  number  of  baptisms, 
though  they  are  reasonably  satisfac- 
tory, but  the  people  are  purchasing  our 
publications,  and  during  the  past  year 
we  have  placed  in  their  hands  nearly 
10,000  of  our  books,  including  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  the  Book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  and  the  .  Life  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  We  have  also 
distributed  nearly  5,000  of  the  Voice 
of  Warning  and  hundreds  of  an  excel- 
lent little  book  written  by  Prest.  Ben. 
E.  Rich,  of  the  Southern  States  mis- 
sion. We  have  emphasized  in  our  la- 
bors the  truth  that  God  has  spoken 
from  the  heavens,  that  He  has  raised 
up  in  these  latter  days  prophrts,  and 
that  through  them  is  He  giving  His 
word  unto  all  nations  of  the  earth. 

If  there  ever  has  been  a  time  when 
it  has  been  necessary  or  prudent  to 
dwell  almost  exclusively  upon  the  four 
fundamental  principles  of  the  Gospel, 
and  to  say  but  little  about  what  God 
is  doing  today    among  His  children, 


ELDER  J.  G.  DUFFIN. 


65 


that  time  we  have  felt  impressed,  does 
not  now  exist  in  the  Southwestern  States 
mission.  Because  of  that  we  have 
been  led  to  impress  upon  the  Elders 
in  that  mission  the  importance  of  stu- 
dying the  revelations  of  God  given  to- 
day, and  to  bring  before  the  people 
that  word  of  God  in  its  purity,  to  let 
the  people  know  that  God  is  doing  a 
work  today,  and  not  be  forever  dwelling 
on  the  past  centuries.  This  is  creating 
a  wonderful  impression  for  good  among 
the  people,  and  their  minds  are  being 
drawn  to  the  great  work  that  God  is 
doing  now.  "We  have  felt  the  im- 
portance of  getting  our  literature  into 
the  hands  of  the  people,  so  that  it 
might  be  read  and  impressions  for  truth 
be  made  upon  their  minds,  in  place  of 
their  reading  all  the  time  those  books 
that  have  been  written  against  the 
work  of  God.  We  have  been  greatly 
favored  in  the  past  year  in  getting  out 
a  ten  thousand  edition  of  that  sacred 
book  revealed  from  God  by  one  of  His 
heavenly  messengers,  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. While  some  of  the  brethren 
have  been  speaking  during  the  confer- 
ence that  we  are  afraid  to  attempt 
what  our  fathers  did,  I  want  to  say  to 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  your 
sons  have  been  led  to  contribute  of 
their  means  to  that  work,  knowing  that 
if  they  would  do  it  God  would  bless 
them  therein;  and  that  book  has  been 
published,  half  of  the  expense  being 
borne  by  the  Elders  of  that  mission  and 
by  a  few  others.  We  feel  very  grateful 
for  this  privilege  and  we  know  that  it 
is  going  to  accomplish  a  great  amount 
of  pood. 

The  headquarters  of  our  mission  is 
located  in  what  is  termed  the  land  of 
Zion.  We  are  in  Kansas  City,  ten 
miles  only  from  Independence,  the 
spot  where  the  temple  will  yet  be 
erected.  I  have  been  very  much  im- 
pressed during  the  last  year  with  the 
very  favorable  sentiment  that  is  ex- 
hibited in  that  land  toward  our  people. 
It  is  only  a  few  days  ago  since  I  re- 
ceived a  letter  from  the  city  engineer 
of  Independence,  stating  to  me  that  a 
portion  of  the  original  temple  lot  was 
now  for  sale,  and  if  our  people  desired 
to  get  hold  of  that  we  could  do  so  by 
paying  the  purchase  price.  The  ori- 
ginal    temple  lot,  according    to  the 


plat  on  the  records,  contained  about 
63  acres,  and  it  is  now  possible  for  this 
people,  if  they  desire,  to  purchase  the 
greater  portion  of  it.  I  state  this  by 
way  of  encouragement  to  the  Saints — 
not  that  I  am  particularly  impressed 
that  the  time  is  here  just  now  to  do 
that  work,  though  it  may  be,  but  to 
show  the  sentiment  in  that  land,  from 
which  our  fathers  were  driven,  and 
where  our  mothers  and  sisters  were 
abused  so  shamefullv.  There  are 
thousands  of  people  today  who  would 
welcome  you  back  with  open  arms, 
and  do  all  in  their  power  to  assist  in 
the  building  up  of  the  work  of  the 
Lord  in  that  country,  from  a  worldly 
point  of  view. 

One  word  more  before  closing.  A 
few  days  ago  I  had  business  to  trans- 
act in  Kansas  City  with  a  leading 
manufacturer.  After  we  had  got 
through  our  business,  the  question  of 
our  people  going  back  to  that  country 
came  up,  and  he  said  to  me,  "Mr.  Duf- 
fln,  it  appears  to  me  almost  improbable 
that  your  people  will  ever  accomplish 
the  work  that  I  understand  has  been 
predicted."  I  said  to  him,  calling  him 
by  name,  "You  have  done  business 
with  my  people;  you  understand  their 
integrity.  Now,  let  your  mind  go 
back  to  the  year  1847.  The  pioneers 
went  into  the  Salt  Lake  valley  on  the 
24th  of  July  of  that  year.  A  few  days 
after  they  reached  the  place  where 
Salt  Lake  City  now  stands,  Brigham 
Young  struck  his  cane  on  a  certain 
spot,  and  said,  'Here  we  will  build  the 
temple  of  our  God.'  Today  the  Salt 
Lake  temple  stands  upon  that  spot. 
The  idea  was  never  lost  sight  of  that 
that  temple  would  be  erected  upon  that 
spot;  and  never  has  the  idea  been  lost 
sight  of  that  the  City  of  Zion  .will  be 
built  where  Independence  now  stands, 
and  the  temple  of  our  God  will  be 
erected  there."  "Well,"  said  he,  "it 
may  be  so;  but  if  it  is,  your  people 
will  exert  a  wonderful  influence  for 
hundreds  of  miles  around."  This  is 
the  sentiment  of  the  people.  I  want 
to  say  that  God  is  preparing  the  way 
for  His  work  to  be  accomplished.  The 
words  of  our  beloved  Prophet  at  the 
opening  of  this  conference  are  true.  I 
know  that  Zion  is  growing,  and  her 
borders  are  extending.      I  know  that 


fit; 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  work  of  God  is  established  upon 
this  earth,  and  that  it  will  ultimately 
prevail.  I  know  that  God  lives,  and 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  I  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  true  Prophet  of  God, 
and  those  who  have  succeeded  him 
have  been  and  are  the  oracles  of  God, 
His  prophets  and  through  them  has 
come  His  word  unto  the  nations  of  the 
earth.     God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 

God's  message  to  the  world — All  the  faithful  en- 
titled to  a  testimony  of  the  truth. 

In  listening  to  the  testimonies  and 
the  instructions  that  have  been  given 
at  this  conference  my  heart  has  been 
full'  of  thanksgiving  and  praise  to  God, 
our  Eternal  Father  for  His  loving 
kindness  and  tender  mercy  unto  us  His 
children.  It  is  wonderful  the  knowledge 
that  has  been  brought  to  the  earth  in 
the  restoration  of  the  everlasting  Gos- 
pel, which  was  rejeoted  1800  years  ago 
by  the  Jews  and  by  the  Gentiles.  How 
highly  we  are  favored  to  have  the 
privilege  of  living  upon  the  earth  in  the 
dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times, 
which  was  spoken  of  by  all  the  prophets 
who  foresaw  the  wonderful  work  that 
was  to  be  done  in  the  last  days  in  the 
establishment  of  the  righteousness  of 
God  upon  the  earth!  "Believe  on  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  thou  shalt  be 
saved,"  is  the  message  that  we  have 
been  carrying  to  the  people,  with  signs 
following  the  true  believer.  The  restor- 
ation of  the  Priesthood  of  the  Son  of 
God  and  the  authority  to  preach  His 
Gospel  and  to  administer  in  the  or- 
dinances of  His  house,  has  made  it 
possible  for  all  the  children  of  our 
Father  to  obtain  light  and  truth,  if  they 
desire  it;  for  we  are  equal  before  the 
Lord  as  His  children,  and  we  all  have 
the  privilege  of  understanding  the  prin- 
ciples of  life  and  salvation,  no  matter 
what  our  circumstances  or  position  may 
be  in  life.  The  Lord  hath  said,  "Look 
unto  me,  all  ye  ends  of  the  earth,  and 
be  ye  saved;  for  I  am  God,  and  beside 
me  there  is  no  Savior." 

The  Latter-day  Saints  are  called  by 
the  world  "Mormons;"  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is 
called  the  "Mormon"  Church.  Why  it 
should  be  so  is  a  question.  Mormon 


had  nothing  to  do  with  the  organization 
of  this  Church.  The  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
organized  it.  It  is  not  the  "Mormon" 
Church;  it  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  Those  who  em- 
brace the  doctrine  of  the  Son  of  God 
are  called  Saints.  Eighteen  hundred 
years  ago  the  members  of  the  Church  of 
Christ  were  called  Saints.  The  Apostle 
Paul  wrote  to  the  Saints  in  Rome,  to  the 
Saints  in  Corinth.  How  came  they  to 
be  Saints?  Simply  because  they  ac- 
cepted Jesus  Christ  and  believed  in  His 
doctrine.  The  Lord  Jesus  himself  said: 
"My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  his  that 
sent  me.  If  any  man  will  do  His  will, 
he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine."  It  has 
been  manifested  at  this  conference,  in 
the  testimonies  that  have  been  borne 
by  these  living  oracles,  that  they  know 
that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
and  that  He  has  commenced  His  mar- 
velous work  and  a  wonder.  I  am  not 
surprised  that  the  wisdom  of  the  wise 
perishes  and  the  understanding  of  the 
prudent  is  hid,  when  they  call  the 
Church  of  Christ  the  "Mormon" 
Church.  Please  tell  me  where  is  the 
justification  for  calling  the  followers  ol 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  this  dispensa- 
tion "Mormons,"  and  the  doctrine 
taught  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  "Mor- 
monism."  I  have  never  heard  a  justi- 
fiable reason  why  it  should  be  so.  It  is 
done,  under  the  influence  of  anti-Christ, 
for  the  purpose  of  impressing  upon  peo- 
ple that  this  is  not  the  Church  of 
Christ.  Those  who  embrace  the  Gospel 
are  called  Saints,  because  they  are  true 
believers  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and 
in  His  doctrine. 

We  worship  the  living  and  true  God, 
our  glorious  Creator,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  We  have  accepted  of  the 
atonement;  we  have  repented  of  our 
sins,  and  have  been  baptized  by  immer- 
sion for  the  remission  of  sins,  to  fulfil 
all  righteousness,  and  that  we  might 
be  born  of  the  water;  we  have  been 
sanctified  in  the  precious  blood  of 
Christ,  which  follows  the  water,  and 
we  ha,ve  received  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  and 
we  have  obtained  a  living  testimony. 
This  makes  us  peculiar.  We  have  come 
put  of  the  world  and  taken  up  the  cross 
of  Christ;  we  advocate  His  doctrines, 
and  we  know  that  they  are  true,  for  we 


ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 


67 


have  tested   them.     Every  man  and 
every  woman  who  has  ever  accepted  the 
doctrine  of  Christ  in  all  humility  and 
meekness,  seeing  light  and  truth  from 
our  Father  in  heaven,  and  has  lived  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel,  has  obtained  a 
living  testimony  that  it  is  true.  It 
shows  us  that  the  Lord  is  no  respecter 
of    persons,    but    every    member  of 
the  Church  of  Christ  has  a  right  to 
knowledge,     light     and  intelligence, 
and    to    know   that    the    doctrine  of 
Christ  is  true,  by  the  revelations  of  Al- 
mighty God.    We  know  that  the  Lord 
has  established  His  Church  upon  the 
rock  of  revelation,    and    we  know,  as 
Daniel  of  old  knew,  that  there  is  a 
God  in  heaven  that  revealeth  secrets. 
We  know  that  the  spirit  of  prophecy  is 
in  the  Church,  because  we  are  contin- 
ually hearing  prophecies    and  seeing 
them  fulflled.    The  Apostles,  under  the 
direction  of    the    Presidency    of  the 
Church,  set  apart  missionaries  to  go 
and  preach  the  Gospel  to  the  nations, 
where  they  themselves  have  already 
been,  and  where  they  have  given  their 
testimony  concerning  this  people  and 
the  restoration  of  the  everlasting  Gos- 
pel; and  the  predictions  they  utter  up- 
on the  heads  of  those  who  are  thus  set 
apart  are  verified.    The  missionaries 
come  back  like  the  ancient  seventy, 
who  returned  rejoicing  in  the  power 
of  God  that  had  been  made  manifest 
in   their  administrations,    even  devils 
being  subject  to  them.    The  Lord  Je- 
sus Christ  told  them  not  to  rejoice  so 
much  in  that    as  that    their  names 
were  written  in  the  Lamb's  book  of  life. 
To  have  our  names    written    in  the 
Lamb's  book  of  life  is  everything  to  us. 
But  it  is  necessary  that  individually 
we  work  out  our  own  salvation,  and  be 
in  harmony  with  the  eternal  princi- 
ples of  the  everlasting  Gospel  of  the 
Son  of  God.    The  Lord    Jesus  Christ 
said  unto  His  disciples  anciently,  "Go 
ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the 
Gospel  to  every  creature.    He  that  be- 
lieveth  and  is  baptized  shall  be  saved." 
Believeth  what?   Believeth  in  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  in  the  atonement,    in  the 
resurrection,  in  holding  communication 
with  the  heavens,  in  the  spirit  of  reve- 
lation, in  putting  our  trust  in  .God,  in 
doing  good,  in  fulfilling  our  individual 
missions,  and  being  in  obedience  to  the 


principles  of  the  Gospel.  This  is  .the 
only  way  by  which  we  can  obtain  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth.  The  Savior 
said,  "No  man  knoweth  the  Son,  but 
the  Father;  neither  knoweth  any  man 
the  Father,  save  the  Son,  and  he  to 
whom  the  Son  will  reveal  Him." 
We  are  living  testators  that  the  Lord 
has  restored  to  the  earth  this  know- 
ledge and  made  it  possible  for  us  to 
understand  the  things  of  God,  ,  be- 
cause we  have  the  fellowship  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  We  declare  these  glad  tid- 
ings of  great  joy  to  the  people,  calling 
upon  them  to  repent,  to  worship  the 
living  and  true  God,  and  to  obey  the 
Gospel  of  the  Son  of  God,  that  they 
may  be  put  in  possession  of  this  price- 
less knowledge,  that  they  may  be  de- 
livered from  ignorance,  priestcraft,  er- 
ror, superstition,  and  the  darkness 
that  covers  the  earth  and  the  gross 
darkness  the  minds  of  the  people,  by 
having  the  fellowship  of  the  Spirit  of 
God  and  being  taught  of  His  ways, 
that  they  may  walk  in  His  paths. 

After  fifty  years  experience  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  I  do  know  most  assuredly  that 
God  lives.  I  do  know  most  assuredly 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  I  do  know 
most  assuredly  that  the  signs  follow 
the  true  believer,  and  that  the  doctrine 
of  the  Father,  taught  by  the  Son  is 
true.  No  man  has  ever  accepted  this 
Gospel  and  lived  its  principles,  but  has 
been  satisfied  and  has  obtained  a 
knowledge  that  it  is  true.  This  is  a 
glorious  opportunity  for  mankind.  The 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  coming  in  flam- 
ing Are,  with  ten  thousand  of  His  an- 
gels, to  take  vengeance  on  them  that 
know  not  God  and  o^~-  not  the  Gospel 
of  the  Son  of  God.  This  Gospel  is  be- 
ing preached  by  His  authority.  It  is 
not  the  work  of  man,  it  is  ths  work  of 
God.  This  wonderful  gathering  that 
has  been  brought  to  pass  has  been  ac- 
complished by  our  Father  in  heaven, 
who  is  doing  His  own  work.  I  thought 
the  other  day,  when  Apostle  Grant  was 
telling  us  of  two  being  baptized  in  Ja- 
pan, that  is  the  way  the  LtJ  gen- 
erally commences  His  work,  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  and  John  the  Baptist  in 
their  dispensations,  and  in  these  last 
days  Joseph  Smith,  Jr.,  and  Oliver 
Cowdery,   in   the  dispensation   of  the 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


fullness  of  times.  Jesus  declared  that 
no  man  could  come  unto  Him  except 
the  Father  drew  him.  All  glory  to  God 
our  Eternal  Father  that  we  have  been 
drawn  into  His  fold;  that  we  had  the 
moral  courage  to  come  out  of  the  popu- 
lar religions  of  the  world  and  to  take 
up  the  cross  of  Christ.  We  have  been 
rewarded.  The  Father  has  given  unto 
us  a  living  testimony  concerning  this 
work,  and  we  know  that  these  princi- 
ples are  true.  We  say  to  all  the  world, 
Repent,  obey  the  Gospel,  receive  the 
remission  of  your  sins,  become  sancti- 
fied through  the  precious  blocd  of  Je- 
sus Christ,  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  and  be  one  with  us  in  our  glor- 
ious brotherhood  in  Christ  Jesus, 
adopted  into  the  family  of  our  Father 
in  heaven.  God  bless  you,  my  be- 
loved brethren  and  sisters.  Let  us  _be 
encouraged;  for  I  can  bear  testimony 
to  the  truth  of  the  expression  of  our 
beloved  President,  that  the  Saints  are 
improving,  increasing  in  righteousness 
and  in  good  works.  I  know  it  from  my 
labors  among  the  people.  The  power 
and  Spirit  of  God  rests  upon  me  when 
visiting  the  Stakes  of  Zion  under  the 
direction  of  the  Presidency,  and  I  know 
the  freedom  we  enjoy  and  the  hearty 
reception  we  receive.  I  say,  God  bless 
you  forever;  and  all  gliry,  power, 
might,  majesty  and  dominion  be  as- 
cribed to  God  and  the  Lamb  forever! 
Even  so,  amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 

Pro  re^b'ln?  made  in  different  missions — Favor- 
able change  ol  sentiment  in  the  Bast  toward 
•  the  Saints. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  indeed 
a  pleasure  to  me  to  meet  with  you  in 
this  conference,  although  I  failed  to  be 
with  you  upon  the  first  day  and  re- 
gret that  I  did  not  hear  the  remarks 
that  were  made  by  the  brethren  who 
spoke  during  that  day. 

It  has  been  my  privilege  during  the 
past  thirty  days  to  visit  in  various 
parts  of  the  East.  I  met  with  the  El- 
ders in  Chicago,  and  had  a  very  pleas- 
ant and  agreeable  time  with  them. 
President  Woodruff  of  that  mission  re- 
gretted very  much  that  he  could  not 
attend  this  conference,  for  the  reason 
that  appointments  had  been  made  and 


the  conditions  were  such  that  he  felt 
it  unwise  to  leave  his  field  of  labor.  I 
also  had  the  privilege,  in  connection 
with  President  Ben  E.  Rich,  of  attend- 
ing a  meeting  in  Richmond,  Virginia, 
and  mingling  with  the  Elders  there.  I 
found  that  the  spirit  of  inquiry  is  man- 
ifest in  that  capital  city  of  the  Old 
Dominion.  From  there  it  was  my  priv- 
ilege to  visit  the  states  of  New  York 
and  Massachusetts  and,  in  connection 
with  the  Elders  in  those  fields  hold 
meetings.  I  believe  the  work  is  devel- 
oping fairly  well  in  Boston.  The  El- 
ders seem  to  be  hopeful,  and  the  officers 
of  that  municipality  seem  to  be  quite 
fair.  The  Elders  are  now  allowed  to 
hold  their  meetings  upon  the  Boston 
Common — a  privilege  that  was  denied 
some  little  time  ago;  and  they  feel  that 
the  chances  for  success  in  that  field  are 
very  good  indeed.  They  have  a  very 
nice  branch  of  the  Church  there,  and 
the  spirit  of  inquiry  Is  manifesting 
itself  among  the  people.  President  Mc- 
Quarrie  of  that  mission  is  indeed  an 
active,  intelligent  and  devoted  Elder. 
His  heart  is  given  to  his  work,  and  he 
is  doing  everything  consistent  to  ex* 
tend  and  spread  the  Gospel  among  the 
people  over  whom  he  is  called  to  pre- 
side. His  conferences  were  also  being 
held,  which  prevented  him  from  coming 
here  to  attend  the  general  conference. 
In  the  city  of  New  York  the  spirit  of 
inquiry  is  quite  manifest.  The  Elders 
are  very  devoted  to  their  work,  and 
are  holding  meetings  constantly  upon 
the  street  corners,  upon  vacant  lots, 
or  wherever  opportunity  may  offer 
within  the  confines  of  that  great  city. 
Fair  treatment  is  accorded  them  gen- 
erally, and  many  are  inclined  to  in- 
vestigate the  doctrines  of  the  Church. 
The  recent  baptism  of  a  few  choice  peo- 
ple in  that  city  has  awakened  some  in- 
terest, and  is  causing  others  to  in- 
vestigate the  principles  of  the  Gospel. 
I  had  the  pleasure,  in  connection  with 
the  Elders  in  the  city  of  New  York,  of 
attending-  six  meetings.  At  two  of  them 
representatives  of  all  the  leading  pa- 
pers of  New  York  City  were  present, 
and  their  notices  of  our  meetings,  tak- 
en as  a  whole,  would  be  regarded  as 
very  fair,  considering-  the  spirit  that 
sometimes  actuates  the  reporters  in 
their  idea  that  they  must  cater  to  a 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 


69 


prejudice  that  exists  in  the  minds  of 
the  people.  The  feeling  manifested  by 
them  in  conversation  was  also  fair,  and 
indeed  quite  generous  upon  the  part  of 
most  of  them. 

My  own  observation,  in  my  brief 
visit  to  these  fields  of  labor  leads  me 
to  believe  that  the  feeling  of  the  people 
is  undergoing  a  change,  and  that  while 
the  spirit  of  investigation  may  not  be 
all  that  we  could  wish  it  to  be,  the 
people  generally  are  inclined  to  treat 
us  fairly.  The  American  people,  to  a 
great  degree,  are  not  inclined  to  have 
much  to  do  with  religion.  While  they 
attend  the  churches  and  display  their 
good  clothes  in  their  visitations  there, 
there  is  an  evidence  of  an  indifference 
to  the  doctrinal  views  presented  by  the 
religious  world  at  the  present  time. 
During  my  absence  in  the  East  I  at- 
tended a  Catholic  service  in  the  cathe- 
dral at  Baltimore,  and  while  I  did  not 
have  the  privilege  of  listening  to  Car- 
dinal Gibbon,  I  heard  a  very  fine  dis- 
course given  by  Father  O'Gavin.  In  his 
effort  before  his  congregation  he  sought 
to  establish  among  them  an  under- 
standing of  the  reason  that  the  Cath- 
olic Church  in  the  world  hold  in  re- 
spect and  reverence  images,  and  he 
made  the  argument,  fully  and  explicit- 
ly upon  his  part,  that  it  was  not  the 
images  that  they  worshiped — they  did 
not  worship  idols — but  that  it  was  sim- 
ply to  impress  upon  their  minds  the 
nature  of  the  Catholic  faith. 

This,  I  believe,  gives  you  in  brief 
some  idea  of  my  visit  to  the  East. 
During  the  trip  I  attended  ten  meet- 
ings among  the  Elders  and  Saints,  and 
found  them,  in  every  part  where  it  was 
my  privilege  to  go,  actively  engaged  in 
the  accomplishment  of  their  work,  de- 
voted and  true;  and  everybody  whom  I 
met  in  connection  with  them  gave 
them  a  good  name  and  spoke  well  of 
their  devotion  to  the  cause  that  they 
had  gone  forth  in  the  world  to  repre- 
sent. 

With  you  I  rejoice  in  the  privilege  of 
being  in  this  conference,  and  in  listen- 
ing to  the  remarks  that  ha-  e  been 
made  by  our  brethren  touching  the 
many  questions  upon  which  they  have 
spoken.  The  work  of  the  Lord  has 
been  established,  never  more  to  be 
thrown  down,    nor    given    to  another 


people.  The  Holy  Priesthood,  with  its 
rights,  its  powers  and  its  privileges, 
has  been  given  to  man  in  the  day  and 
age  in  which  we  live.  It  is  the  pur- 
pose of  the  Master  that  the  world  shall 
be  warned  in  regard  to  this  matter, 
that  the  truth  shall  be  preached  among 
the  children  of  men,  and  that  the  spirit 
of  this  work  shall  be  felt  in  every  land, 
in  every  tongue,  and  in  every  nation. 
To  this  end  the  best  efforts  or  the  lives 
of  thousands  of  men  and  women  have 
been  devoted  in  the  past,  and  for  the 
future  the  possibilities  of  their  accom- 
plishments can  alone  be  told  by  the 
spirit  of  revelation.  But  our  duty  in 
this  respect  is  as  full  and  clear,  I  trust, 
before  our  eyes,  and  before  the  eyes  of 
the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  today, 
as  it  was  when  in  the  beginning  the 
Lord  revealed  His  will  and  declared 
that  this  message  of  eternal  truth  must 
be  taught  to  every  nV-ion  of  the  world, 
and  that  mankind  must  be  warned  of 
the  truth  and  of  its  re-establishment. 
Today  we  are  better  equipped  for 
the  accomplishment  of  that  mission 
than  at  any  time  in  our  past  history. 
We  are  becoming  more  fully  establish- 
ed in  our  homes;  better  opportunities 
are  furnished  for  the  education  and 
training  of  the  young;  and  the  schools 
that  have  been  established  in  the 
Church,  together  with  the  various  or- 
ganizations and  associations  that  have 
been  builded  up,  are  all  aiding  in  that 
preparation  which  shall  qualify  the 
young  men  and  maidens  of  our  com- 
munities to  go  forth  under  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  Divine  Spirit,  equipped  for 
their  ministry,  and  relying  upon  God 
their  Father  for  the  accomplishment  of 
His  holy  will.  I  trust  that  in  every 
home  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  the 
foremost  thought  will  be  that,  so  far 
as  lies  within  their  power,  the  mem- 
bers of  that  household  shall  be  fully 
equipped  for  the  performance  of  their 
part  and  the  discharge  of  the  obliga- 
tions which  they  took  upon  themselves 
when  they  entered  the  sacred  waters 
of  baptism.  The  world  is  not  warned. 
Its  sons  and  its  daughters  by  millions 
are  not  conversant  with  the  truths 
that  have  been  revealed  through  the 
ministrations  of  the  prophets  of  these 
later  days.  They  have  heard  bad 
words   spoken  of  the  Elders   of  the 


70 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  Thousands  of 
them  have  believed,  and  are  believing, 
that  the  people  called  Latter-day 
Saints  are  of  the  worst  possible  stripe 
among  men  and  women.  While  thou- 
sands have  heard  the  truth,  and  while 
thousands  are  from  time  to  time  visit- 
ing our  mountain  homes,  and  thereby 
changing  their  spirit  and  thought  in  re- 
gard to  us  as  a  people,  there  are  thou- 
sands whose  ears  have  never  been  sa- 
luted by  the  testimony  of  the  truth, 
but  who  have  been  impressed  with  the 
thought,  presented  by  someone  as  lack- 
ing in  knowledge  as  they  themselves, 
that  the  mission  and  purpose  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  is  simply  to  do 
evil  among  their  fellowmen.  But  these 
thoughts  are  giving  way.  The  proud 
and  the  mighty,  conversant  with  the 
conditions  of  our  own  land,  are  not  in- 
clined to  avoid  the  companionship  of 
a  "Mormon"  Elder.  Those  possessed  of 
wealth,  and  standing  in  comfortable 
positions,  as  they  are  thrown  in  con- 
tact with  the  Elders  of  the  Church  are 
surprised  at  their  character  and  de- 
portment, and  they  bear  witness  to 
their  honesty  and  uprightness.  But  a 
short  time  ago,  in  the  home  of  a 
Methodist  family  in  the  State  of  Massa- 
chusetts, the  lady  of  the  house  ex- 
pressed her  dislike  of  "Mormonism," 
as  the  world  calls  it,  but,  said  she  "the 
people  around  us  do  not  understand 
Mormonism.  A  few  days  ago,  in  the 
chapel  where  I  was  worshiping,  a  per- 
son from  your  section  of  country  made 
a  representation  of  the  conditions 
among  your  people  that  I  knew  was 
Snot  true,  and  I  told  her  so.  I  said 
that  while  I  was  not  a  believer  in  the 
doctrines  taught  by  Joseph  Smith,  the 
Mormon  Prophet,  I  knew  her  state- 
ments were  not  true,  because  I  had 
mingled  among  the  people  and  knew 
the  conditions  that  existed  among 
them."  Thus  in  the  towns  and  cities 
of  our  own  land  and  in  every  part  of 
the  world  may  be  found  upright  men 
and  women  who  will  not  tolerate  the 
suggestions  that  go  forth  from  the  lips 
of  the  unwise  and  imprudent,  the  dis- 
gruntled and  the  dissatisfied  because 
of  the  failures  that  have  come  to 
themselves,  who  are  belittling  the  cause 
of  Christ,  and  seeking  to  trample  be- 
neath their  feet  and  dishonor  the  sys- 
tem that  the  Almighty  has  established 


in  the  world.  These  honest  people  who 
mingle  with  and  are  in  the  companion- 
ship of  the  Elders  of  the  Church  raise 
their  voices  in  testimony  of  their  good 
character,  and  are  inclined  to  defend 
them  by  giving  forth  what  is  the  truth, 
so  far  as  they  have  been  made  conver- 
sant with  it. 

I  desire  to  say  that  in  my  brief  visit 
to  the  Eastern  States,  it  has  been  all 
that  I  could  have  wished.  In  associat- 
ing with  the  missions,  in  talking  with 
the  Saints,  in  visiting  with  strangers 
and  expounding  the  doctrines  of  the 
Church,  in  mingling  with  men  in  ex- 
alted stations,  the  same  spirit  of  fair- 
ness and  of  justice  seems  to  manifest 
itself  as  you  converse  with  them  in 
regard  to  the  character  of  the  work 
which  the  Latter-day  Saints  represent 
in  the  world. 

My  brothers  and  my  sisters,  the  work 
of  the  Lord  is  onward  and  upward.  The 
spirit  of  truth  is  disseminating  itself 
little  by  little.  There  are,  perhaps, 
millions  of  people  within  the  confines 
of  the  United  States  who  believe  in 
the  mission  and  ministry  of  Joseph 
Smith,  and  the  day  will  come  when, 
in  the  providences  of  Almighty  God, 
they  will  link  their  destines  with  that 
cause  and  aid  in  its  development  and 
growth  among  the  children  of  men. 
They  are  convinced  in  their  souls,  but 
they  are  restrained  from  an  acceptance 
of  it  by  the  pride  that  exists  and  the 
feeling  that  it  would  be  unwise  for 
them  to  link  their  destines  with  it.  Jn 
their  hearts,  however,  the  seed  has 
been  sown,  the  light  of  truth  is  spring- 
ing up,  and  the  day  will  come  when 
they  will  be  humbled  and  will  receive 
the  truth.  I  have  no  more  doubt  of 
this  than  that  I  stand  before  you  as 
a  witness  for  that  self-same  truth  and 
for  that  great  God  and  His  Holy  Son 
who  introduced  the  Gospel  in  this  dis- 
pensation and  taught  the  boy  Prophet 
the  way  of  life  and  the  means  by 
which  the  human  family  can  be  re- 
claimed. 

My  brothers  and  my  sisters,  I  pray 
that  the  blessings  of  heaven  may 
abound  in  your  hearts  and  homes. 
May  the  spirit  of  inspiration  be  in  the 
mind  and  heart  of  every  father  and 
every  mother.  Let  every  boy  and  every 
girl  be  impressed  with  the  sacredness 
of  this  mission  that  has  been  given  to 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 


71 


them — the  sowing  of  the  seeds  of  truth, 
the  calling  to  repentance  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  the  pointing  of  the  way 
of  life  to  all  who  will  listen.  They  that 
will  listen,  their  hearts  will  be  touch- 
ed; for  as  the  days  go  by  and  we  meet 
men  upon  the  right  hand  and  upon 
the  left,  they  say,  "I  heard  upon  such 
an  occasion  the  testimony  of  a  Mormon 
Elder.  It  unsettled  my  life,  it  changed 
the  trend  of  my  experience,  it  turned 
me  from  the  course  I  was  pursuing, 
and  it  brought  me  to  sense  that  there 
is  something  in  the  world  aside  from 
the  struggle  for  wealth,  or  for  afflu- 
ence, or  for  place  and  station  among 
men."  The  Gospel  is  true.  Jesus  is  in- 
deed the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  God 
in  heaven  is  our  Father.  He  has  res- 
tored His  Priesthood  and  placed  it  up- 
on the  shoulders  of  men,  and,  as  He 
promised,  it  will  never  be  taken  from 
the  earth  again,  nor  will  it  ever  be 
given  to  another  people.  The  key,  the 
power,  the  authority,  the  dominion,  is 
here;  and  Almighty  God  is  ratifying 
His  promises  by  His  still  small  voice 
in  its  declaration  of  truth  among  His 
children.  To  this  end  I  trust  that  we 
may  be  faithful  to  the  promises  we 
have  made  to  the  Almighty,  that  we 
may  reap  the  reward  promised  to  the 
just,  and  that  we  may  eventually  stand 
in  His  presence,  having  been  reclaimed 
and  brought  to  a  perfect  knowledge  of 
the  principles  of  everlasting  life,  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 

Rouse,  O  ye  mortals, 
The  dawn  is  near. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Lewis,  of  Ben- 
son stake. 


! 

.  AT  THE  ASSEMBLY  HALL, 

Overflow  meeting,  Sunday  afternoon, 
April  6. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

We  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet. 

Prayer  by  Elder  Robert  Morris. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 

Lead  me,  my  Savior. 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  by  request 
of  Brother  Grant  I  arise  to  say  a  few 
words,  and  I  greatly  desire  to  be  as- 
sisted by  your  faith  and  prayers.  I 
always  feel  my  excessive  weakness 
when  standing  in  the  responsibility  of 
a  teacher  to  the  Saints,  or  to  the  world; 
for  I  realize  that  we  are  not  sent  to 
teach  our  own  opinions,  nor  to  advance 
any  theories  that  have  not  come  to  us 
by  revelation  from  God,  and  that  we 
are  not  sent  to  teach  even  the  revela- 
tions of  God,  except  as  we  are  directed 
and  inspired  by  the  Holy  Spirit.  This 
is  a  condition  and  obligation  that  is 
not  only  required  of  the  authorities  of 
the  Church,  but  is  a  positive  com- 
mandment to  all  who  bear  the  Holy 
Priesthood,'  who  administer  in  the 
word  of  the  Lord  among  the  people. 
Neither  is  it  confined  to  our  adminis- 
trations in  the  way  of  public  speaking 
alone,  but  every  man  who  officiates  in 
any  responsibility  in  the  work  of  God 
should  be  actuated  by  the  Holy  Spirit, 
so  that  his  administrations  shall  be 
recognized  of  God,  and,  being  recog- 
nized of  God,  shall  be  attended  by  that 
power  which  shall  make  them  effective 
among  the  children  of  men,  that  if  you 
are  rejected  by  the  people  it  shall  stand 
to  their  condemnation  just  as  much  as 
if  they  had  rejected  the  Savior  him- 
self. The  Savior  taught  this  doctrine 
most  distinctly.  He  said:  "He  that 
receiveth  you,  receiveth  me;  and  he 
that  receiveth  me,  receiveth  him  that 
sent  me."  The  responsibility  of  this 
work  is  of  such  a  nature  that  we  ought 
to  be  endowed  with  that  superior  spir- 
it which  belongs  to  the  Gospel  of  Je- 
sus Christ;  in  other  words,  we  ought 
to  enter  into  that  spirit  of  solemnity, 
in  considering  the  responsibilities  that 
devolve  upon  us  in  this  work,  and 
treat  the  things  of  God  with  that  sa- 
credness  that  attaches  unto  them. 

I  believe  a  disrespect  for  the  things 
of  God  is  creeping  in  among  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  a  tendency  on  the  part 
of  the  young  people  to  speak  lightly  of 
sacred  things,  and,  in  some  instances, 
to  profane  the  name  of  Deity.  These 
are  evils  which  ought  to  be  corrected 
by  the  parents  in  the  exercise  of  their 
influence  in  the  home  circle.     It  ought 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  be  taken  up  by  those  connected  with 
the  Mutual  Improvement  associations, 
and  those  in  authority  in  the  various 
wards. 

There  is  a  statement  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  regarding  our  respons- 
ibility to  our  children,  which  I  believe 
I  will  read  a  few  verses  of.  You  are 
all  familiar  with  it,  but  it  is  a  res- 
ponsibility which  I  feel  we  are  derelict 
in  meeting,  and  that  is  respecting  the 
teaching  of  our  children  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel  in  their  early  childhood, 
so  that  when  they  shall  attain  unto  the 
years  of  accountability  and  be  called  up- 
on to  enter  into  the  waters  af  baptism, 
that  they  shall  do  so  intelligently;  not 
because  they  are  coerced  by  their  pa- 
rents, but  because  they  have  an  intel- 
ligent understanding  of  the  sacredness 
of  that  ordinance,  because  the^  have 
come  to  be  imbued  with  the  spirit  of 
faith  in  the  Living  God,  that  they  be- 
lieve that  God  lives  and  that  He  will 
answer  their  prayers  when  they  ap- 
proach Him  in  supplication,  and,  in 
short,  because  they  have  an  under- 
standing of  the  first  principles  of  the 
Gospel.  I  will  read  from  the  68th  sec- 
tion of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  re- 
specting this  obligation  which  devolves 
upon  the  parents: 

"And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents 
have  children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
Stakes,  which  are  organiz:d,  that 
teach  them  not  to  understand  the  doc- 
trine of  repentance,  faith  in  Christ  the 
son  of  the  living  God,  and  of  baptism 
and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghot  by  the 
laying  on  of  hands  when  eight  years 
old,  the  sins  be  upon  the  heads  of  the 
parents." 

He  enunciates  it  a  sin  to  thus  neg- 
lect the  sons  and  daughters  tjiat  have 
been  committed  to  our  care.  I  take 
this  to  mean  exactly  what  it  says,  that 
it  is  the  duty  of  every  father  and 
mother  to  so  enlist  the  interest  and 
attention  of  their  children  that  they 
may  call  them  around  the  family  fire- 
side and  indoctrinate  them  in  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel,  the  doctrine  of  re- 
pentance, and  the  ordinance  of  baptism, 
by  immersion,  by  the  time  they  are 
eight  years  old,  and  also  the  sacred  or- 
dinance of  the  laying  on  of  hands  for 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  that 
they  shall  understand  it,  to  a  very 
great  extent,  so  that,  being  thus  pre- 


pared when  they  enter  the  sacred  wa- 
ters of  baptism,  they  are  prepared  to 
receive  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  to  enjoy  His 
administrations,  His  whisperings  and 
His  power,  that  they  may  grow  up  in 
the  fear  of  God  and  in  an  understand- 
ing of  His  ways.  Now,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  the  Lord  says: 

"For  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  the  in- 
habitants of  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized." 

This  relevation  was  given  when  they 
were  about  to  seek  the  establishment 
of  the  City  of  Zion,  concerning  which 
we  heard  something  in  the  Tabernacle 
this  morning  by  President  Duffin.  From 
this  city,  the  New  Jerusalem,  the 
stakes- of  Zion  were  to  expand,  from  the 
north  to  the  south  and  from  the  east 
to  the  west,  until  they  should  occupy 
this  broad  land  of  Joseph,  from  one 
end  of  it  to  the  other.  This  obligation, 
or  law,  concerning  which  I  have  been 
reading,  was  to  be  a  standing  law  of 
Zion  and  to  all  her  stakes  upon  the 
earth.  I  leave  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  to  ask  yourselves  the  question 
as  to  the  extent  you  have  met  this 
obligation,  and  to  what  degree  you  are 
prepared  to  stand  before  God  and  say 
that  you  have  taught  your  children  to 
exercise  faith  in  God,  and  have  taught 
them  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  speci- 
fied in  the  revelation.  The  Lord  says, 
in  continuing  the  revelation: 

"And  they  shall  also  teach  their 
children  to  pray  and  to  walk  uprightly 
before  the  Lord." 

It  has  been  complained  of  to  us,  from 
time  to  time,  that  some  of  our  children 
are  becoming  very  indifferent  and  dis- 
respectful to  the  arrangements  of  their 
parents,  and  that  they  are  found  en- 
gaged in  hoodlumism  on  the  streets  at 
night,  and  that  they  stand  upon  the 
corners  of  the  streets  learning  to  blas- 
pheme the  name  of  the  Lord,  especial- 
ly in  this  city,  the  central  city,  so  to 
speak,  of  the  stakes  of  Zion,  as  now 
organized.  Little  boys,  even,  are  blas- 
pheming the  name  of  Deity.  One  of 
them  stood  out  here  as  the  congrega- 
tion passed  out  yesterday,  and  witness- 
ing some  of  the  people  going  to  some 
of  the  restaurants  for  dinner,  and,  tak- 
ing the  name  of  the  Lord  in  vain,  said, 
"Look  at  the  'hay-seeds.'  "    These  are 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 


7:! 


the  expressions  they  are  learning,  and  I 
believe,  where  this  state  of  affairs  ex- 
ists, that  the  parents  are  not  fulfilling 
the  obligation  enjoined  upon  them  by 
the  revelation  of  God  contained  in  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants;  for  it  says: 

\ 

"And  they  shall  also  teach  their  chil- 
dren to  pray  and  to  walk  uprightly  be- 
fore the  Lord. 

'And  the  inhabitants  of  Zion  shall, 
also,  observe  the  Sabbath  day  to  keep 
it  holy." 

Now,  a  statement  is  given  further 
over  in  this  volume  concerning  the  pre- 
siding authorities  of  the  Church,  and  it 
is  a  very  positive  statement,  expressing 
the  disapproval  of  the  Almighty,  be- 
cause the  Presidency  of  the  Church  did 
not  see  to  the  education  and  training 
of  their  children  in  the  principles  of 
the  Gospel  as  they  should  have  done. 
Brother  Taylor  read  from  this  revela- 
tion yesterday,  showing  how  we  might 
grow  from  grace  to  grace  in  the  knowl- 
edge of  God,  even  as  did  the  Messiah, 
by  listening  to  the  words  of  God  and 
being  controlled  and  directed  by  the 
inspiration  of  the  Almighty  in  our 
duties  in  life.  Now,  the  Lord  said  to 
the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  concern- 
ing our  children: 

"Every  spirit  of  man  was  innocent  in 
the  beginning,  and  God  having  redeem- 
ed man  from  the  fall,  men  became 
again  in  their  infant  state,  innocent  be- 
fore God. 

"And  that  wicked  one  cometh  and 
taketh  away  light  and  truth,  through 
disobedience,  from  the  children  of  men, 
and  because  of  the  tradition  of  their 
fathers. 

But  I  have  commanded  you  to  bring 
up  your  children  in  light  and  truth; 

"But  verily  I  say  unto  you,  my  ser- 
vant Frederick  G.  Williams,  you  have 
continued  under  this  comdemnation; 

"You  have  not  taught  your  children 
light  and  truth,  according  to  the  com- 
mandments, and  that  wicked  one  hath 
power,  as  yet,  over  you,  and  this  is 
the  cause  of  your  affliction." 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  let 
us  be  practical,  and  ask  our- 
selves whether  we  have  taught 
our  children  light  and  truth  or  not. 
We  should  not  be  satisfied  with  the 
Mutual  Improvement  association,  the 
Sunday  school,  the  Primary,  and  other 
institutions  which  the  Lord,  in  His 
great  mercy,  has  established  in  the 
Church  for  the  benefit  of  our  children; 
we  cannot  justify  ourselves  in  allowing 


these  institutions  to  do  all  that  we 
should  feel  obligated  to  do  in  the  educa- 
tion of  our  children  in  the  principles  of 
the  Gospel.  It  is  the  duty  of  every 
man  and  woman  to  see,  just  as  far  as 
possible,  that  their  children  are  taught 
light  and  truth,  that  they  are  taught  to 
pray  in  their  infancy,  that  they  are 
taught  to  observe  the  Sabbath  day  to  * 
keep  it  holy,  that  they  are  taught  the 
doctrines  of  virtue  and  honor  before 
God,  as  being  dearer  than  life  itself, 
that  they  are  taught  to  respect  the 
holy  Priesthood,  that  the  Priesthood  of 
God  committed  to  man  upon  the  earth 
is,  as  it  were,  the  representation  of  God 
in  the  flesh;  for  God  has  given  the  au- 
thority that  whatever  His  servants 
shall  do  in  His  name,  actuated  by  the 
inspiration  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  shall  be 
just  as  binding  among  the  children  of 
men  as  if  He  had  done  it  Himself.  This 
is  a  great  work,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, a  great  responsibility  to  fulfill 
these  obligations  in  regard  to  our  child- 
ren. It  strikes  me  that,  if  we  do  our 
full  duty  and  seek  to  instruct  our 
children  and  to  bring  them  up  in  the 
ways  of  the  Lord,  there  is  no  time  for 
us  to  join  the  institutions  of  the  world, 
that  there  is  no  time  for  us  to  join 
the  secret  orders  of  society  and  look 
after  the  duties  and  obligations  placed 
upon  us  by  some  lodge  that  has  been 
established  by  the  instrumentality  of 
men,  no  matter  what  their  ideas  may 
be,  for  the  obligations  which  are  placed 
upon  us  as  Latter-day  Saints  are  so 
broad  and  extensive  that  they  demand 
all  our  time  and  attention  and  all  the 
talents  which  God  has  given  unto  us. 

The  Lord  extends,  in  this  command- 
ment, concerning  which  I  have  just 
read,  these  injunctions  and  reproofs  to 
President  Sidney  Rigdon,  and  also  to 
President  Joseph  Smith,  because  they 
had  been  under  some  condemnation  in 
this  respect.  This  being  the  case  with 
them,  then,  what  must  be  the  condem- 
nation resting  upon  many  of  us  who 
are  guilty  of  neglecting  to  train  and 
teach  our  children  in  the  principles  of 
the  Gospel.  I  do  not  say  that  those  who 
do  their  full  duty  will  always  have  the 
greatest  success,  for  some  are  rebel- 
lious, even  as  Laman  and  Lemuel  were 
rebellious  to  the  commandments  of  God, 
given  through  their  father  Lehi;  but 


74  .  GENERAL  © 

inasmuch  as  Lehi  did  his  full  duty,  his 
garments  are  clean,  and  he  is  under  no 
condemnation  for  their  infidelity  and 
rebellion  against  God,  the  Eternal 
Father. 

We  have  been  commanded,  in  these 
last  days,  to  study  from  the  best 
books,  to  acquire  information  upon  all 
useful  subjects,  themes  that  have  a 
tendency  to  qualify  us  for  usefulness  in 
the  community  and  in  the  Church  and 
kingdom  of  God  here  upon  the  earth. 
"We.  are  to  seek  for  wisdom  out  of  the 
best  books;  and  we  have  been  equally 
enjoined,  by  the  living  oracles  of  God 
upon  the  earth,  that  we  must  be  care- 
ful as  to  the  character  of  the  literature 
that  falls  into  the  hands  of  our  child- 
ren. What  they  read  has  its  effect 
upon  them,  whether  it  be  for  good  or 
for  evil.  We  have  learned  of  a  recent 
terrible  occurrence  in  this  city,  where 
a  little  boy  was  influenced  to  commit 
murder  by  a  wicked  man,  and  the  testi- 
mony of  his  friends  was  that  it  was 
brought  about  through  reading  dime 
novels  and  falling  into  diabolical  habits, 
taught  by  the  wicked  and  ungodly 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We 
have  the  scriptures  to  read,  the  reve- 
lations of  God.  There  is  nothing  so 
edifying  as  they  are,  or  so  instructive. 
We  have  histories,  and  works  treating 
upon  various  subjects  of  usefulness 
that  will  occupy  all  the  time  our  child- 
ren have  to  devote  to  reading  and  in- 
forming their  minds;  and  it  is  a  good 
thing  for  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
>  to  occasionally  read  the  things  that  are 
written,  from  time  to  time,  by  those 
riot  of  us,  concerning  the  faith  and 
achievements  of  this  people  in  these 
mountain  valleys. 
:  I  was  pleased,  the  other  night,  that 
the  works  of  Mr.  Charles  Ellis,  a  series 
of  pamphlets,  were  recommended  to  the 
people.  Mr.  Ellis,  who  is  not  of  our 
faith,  has  been  in  this  city  for  about  12 
years,  and  has  had  the  courage  to 
stand  up  and  defend  the  rights  of  this 
people,  from  time  to  time.  When 
he  first  came  to  Salt  Lake  City,  he 
stood  up  in  the  Salt  Lake  Theater, 
and  defended  the  rights  of  the 
American  Indians  against  the  imposi- 
tions heaped  upon  them  by  the 
emissaries  of  the  government.  He  is 
a  man  who  sympathizes  with  the  weak 
and  downtrodden. 


Brother  Grant,  yesterday,  in  his  in- 
teresting report  of  the  Japanese  mis- 
sion, stated  that  God  had  raised  up 
men  in  that  land  to  defend  him  through 
the  press,  to  write  articles  in  defense  o£ 
the  doctrines,  history  and  character  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  We  ought  to 
be  sufficiently  broad-minded  and  lib- 
eral, in  our  associations  with  men,  to- 
give  those  credit  who  stand  up  in  our 
defense,  or  say  a  good  word  in  defense 
of  the  rights,  and  the  doctrine  and 
character  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

It  would  not  be  becoming  in  me  to 
occupy  more  of  your  time,  but  I  wish 
to  bear  my  testimony  to  the  truth.  I 
wish  to  testify  that  I  know  that  God 
lives,  and  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the 
Savior,  and  that  He  visited  the  earth 
in  these  last  days  and  restored  the  Gos- 
pel in  all  its  fulness  and  power,  and 
that  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
and  is  a  Prophet  of  God.  standing  at 
the  head  of  the  most  glorious  of  all 
dispensations.  I  also  desire  to  testify 
that  Joseph  F.  Smith  is  a  Prophet  of 
God,  and  that  he  is  guided  in  his  ad- 
ministrations by  the  spirit  of  revela- 
tion from  on  high. 

I  felt  to  rejoice  at  this  conference 
that  the  opportunity  has  been  extend- 
ed to  the  Stake  Presidents  and  soma 
of  the  Bishops  to  take  part  in  the  pro- 
ceedings of  this  conference;  also  in 
listening  to  the  remarks  of  the  Seven 
Presidents  of  the  Seventies,  who  are 
men  of  God,  filled  with  the  inspiration 
and  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  as  well 
as  in  listening  to  what  has  been  said 
by  the  Presidents  of  the  missions  of 
the  United  States,  who  have  made  such 
glorious  reports  of  their  labors  among 
the  inhabitants  of  this  great  land.  I 
rejoice  in  all  these  things,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  desire  to  be  thankful. 

I  ask  an  interest  in  your  faith  and 
prayers,  for  while  we  are  called  upon 
to  stand  in  responsible  positions,  we 
desire  and  need  to  be  sustained  by  your 
faith  and  prayers.  We  are  weak,  and 
are  mortals,  and  I  know  that  there  is 
power  in  the  hands  of  the  people  of 
God  to  draw  out  the  blessings  of  the 
Almighty  upon  His  servants;  and  I  do 
not  know  but  there  is  power  in  the 
hands  of  the  people  to  close  up  those 
blessings. 

I  desire  to  refer  to  a  verse  or  two 
in  the  29th  chapter  of  the  Book  of 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 


7.") 


Alma,  and  then  I  will  sit  down.  He 
said: 

"O  that  I  were  an  angel,  and  could 
have  the  wish  of  mine  heart,  that  I 
might  go  forth  and  speak  with  the 
trump  of  God,  with  a  voice  to  shake 
the  earth,  and  cry  repentance  unto  ev- 
ery people." 

I  want  to  say  to  you  that  the  most 
important  doctrine  to  be  taught  to  the 
people,  both  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  those  who  are  not  Latter- 
day  Saints,  is  the  doctrine  of  repent- 
ance.    The  Prophet  continues: 

"Yea,  I  would  declare  unto  every 
soul,  as  with  the  voice  of  thunder,  re- 
pentance, and  the  plan  of  redemption, 
that  they  should  repent  and  come  unto 
our  God.  that  there  might  not  be  more 
sorrow  upon  all  the  face  of  the  earth. 

"But  behold,  I  am  a  man,  and  do  sin 
in  my  wish;  for  I  ought  to  be  content 
with  the  things  which  the  Lord  hath 
allotted  unto  me. 

"I  ought  not  to  harrow  up  in  my  de- 
sires, the  firm  decree  of  a  just  God, 
for  I  know  that  he  granteth  unto  men 
according  to  their  desire,  whether  it 
be  unto  death  or  unto  life;  yea,  I  know 
that  he  allotteth  unto  men,  according 
to  their  wills;  whether  they  be  unto 
salvation  or  unto  destruction. 

"Yea,  and  I  know  that  good  and  evil 
have  come  before  all  men;  or  he  that 
knoweth  not  good  from  evil  is  blame- 
less; but  he  that  knoweth  good  and 
evil,  to  him  it  is  given  according  to  his 
desires;  whether  he  desireth  trood  or 
evil,  life  or  death,  joy  or  remorse  of 
conscience. 

"Now  seeing  that  I  know  ,  these  things 
why  should  I  desire  more  than  to  per- 
form the  work  to  which  I  have  been 
called? 

"Why  should  I  desire  that  I  was  an 
angel,  that  I  could  speak  unto  all  the 
ends  of  the  earth? 

"For,  behold,  the  Lord  doth  grant  un- 
to all  nations,  of  their  own  nation  and 
tongue,  to  teach  his  word;  yea,  in  wis- 
dom, all  he  seeth  fit  that  they  should 
have;  therefore,  we  see  that  the  Lord 
doth  counsel  in  wisdom,  according  to 
that  which  is  just  and  true." 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  God 
bless  you,  and  help  us  to  remember 
these  things  and  to  put  them  into 
practice,  and  that  we  may  say,  as 
Joshua  said:  "As  for  me  and  my  house, 
we  will  serve  the  Lord." 

ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  the  order 
of  the  day  is  short  speeches.  I  pray 
that  while  I  am  standing  before  you  I 
may  enjoy  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  also. 


During  one  of  my  recent  visits  to 
one  of  our  Stake  conferences  a  very 
remarkable  circumstance  happened, 
which  I  desire  to  refer  to  this  after- 
noon. One  of  our  brethren  there,  who 
held  the  Holy  Priesthood,  thought  he 
had  discovered  a  power  that  was 
greater  than  the  Priesthood,  and  had 
begun  to  exercise  this  power  among 
the  people.  He  called  this  power  which 
he  had  graduated  in,  hypnotism.  He 
went  to  the  Bishop  of  his  ward  and 
suggested  that  he  take  lessons  from 
him,  for,  said  he,  "Bishop,  you  can 
just  cast  a  spell  over  the  people 
and  make  them  do  just  as  you  please."  I 
desire  to  talk  a  little  this  afternoon 
with  reference  to  this  evil.  It  would 
astonish  you  to  know,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  how  many  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  are  taking  up  with  this  vrinci- 
ple  of  hypnotism,  with  Christian  Sci- 
ence, and  how  many  are  following  af- 
ter wizards  and  those  that  have  fa- 
miliar spirits,  and  goins,  to  palmists  to 
get  their  hands  read,  and  all  this  sort 
of  thing.  Now  i  will  tell  you  why  1 
came  to  talk  upon  this  subject.  It 
was  the  remark  of  Brother  Cowley, 
that  we  teach  nothing  but  what  ifc 
given  by  revelation  from  God,  thfc 
Eternal  Father.  I  am  going  to  read 
a  little  to  you  from  the  13th  Chapter  of 
Deuteronomy. 

"If  there  arise  among  you  a  prophet, 
or  a  dreamer  of  dreams,  and  giveth 
thee  a  sign  or  a  wonder, 

•'And  the  sign  or  the  wonder  comt 
to  pass,  whereof  he  spake  unto  thee, 
saying,  Let  us  go  after  other  gods, 
which  thou  hast  not  known,  and  let  us. 
serve  them; 

"Thou  shalt  not  hearken  unto  the 
words  of  that  prophet,  or  that  dreamer 
of  dreams:  for  the  Lord  your  God 
proveth  you,  to  know  whether  ye  love 
the  Lord  your  God  with  all  your  heart 
and  with  ali  your  soul. 

"Ye  shall  walk  after  the  Lord  your 
God,  and  fear  Him,  and  keep  His  com- 
mandments, and  obey  His  voice,  and  ye 
phall  serve  him,  and  cleave  unto  him. 

"And  that  prophet,  or  that  dreamer 
of  dreams,  shall  be  put  to  death;  be- 
cause he  hath  spoken  to  turn  you  away 
from  the  Lord  your  God,  which  brought 
you  out  of  the  land  of  Egypt,  and  re- 
deemed you  out  of  the  house  of  bond- 
age, to  thrust  thee  out  of  the  way 
which  the  Lord  thy  God  commanded 
thee  to  walk  in:  So  shalt  thou  put  the 
evil  away  from  the  midst  of  thee." 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Notice  the  severity  of  the  punish- 
ment to  be  given  to  this  class  of  peo- 
ple; for  they  were  to  be  put  to  death. 

"If  thy  brother,  the  son  of  thy  moth- 
er, or  thy  son,  or  thy  daughter,  or  the 
wife  of  thy  bosom,  or  thy  friend,  which 
is  as  thine  own  soul,  entice  thee  secret- 
ly, saying,  Let  us  go  and  serve  other 
gods,  which  thou  hast  not  known,  thou, 
nor  thy  fathers; 

"Namely,  of  the  gods  of  the  people 
which  are  round  about  you,  nigh  unto 
thee,  or  far  off  from  thee,  from  the  one 
end  of  the  earth  even  unto  the  other 
end  of  the  earth; 

"Thou  shalt  not  consent  unto  him, 
nor  hearken  unto  him;  neither  shall 
thine  eye  pity  him,  neither  shalt  thou 
spare,  neither  shalt  thou  conceal  him; 

"But  thou  shalt  surely  kill  him;  thine 
hand  shall  be  first  upon  him  to  put 
him  to  death,  and  afterwards  the  hand 
of  all  the  people. 

"And  thou  shalt  stone  him  with 
atones,  that  he  die;  because  he  hath 
sought  to  thrust  thee  away  from  the 
Lord  thy  God,  which  brought  thee  out 
of  the  land  of  Egypt,  from  the  house 
of  bondage. 

"And  all  Israel  shall  hear,  and  fear, 
and  shall  do  no  more  any  such  wicked- 
ness as  this  is  among  you. 

"If  thou  shalt  hear  say  in  one  of  thy 
cities,  which  the  Lord  thy  God  hath 
given  thee  to  dwell  there,  saying, 

"Certain  men,  the  children  of  Belial, 
are  gone  out  from  among  you,  and  have 
withdrawn  the  inhabitants  of  their  city, 
saying,  Let  us  go  and  serve  other  gods, 
which  ye  have  not  known; 

"Then  shalt  thou  inquire,  and  make 
search,  and  ask  diligently;  and,  behold, 
if  it  be  truth,  and  the  thing  certain, 
that  such  abomination  is  wrought 
among  you; 

"Thou  shalt  surelj'  smite  the  inhabi- 
ants  of  that  city  with  the  edge  of  the 
sword,  destroying  it  utterly,  and  all 
that  is  therein,  and  the  cattle  thereof, 
with  the  edge  of  the  sword. 

"And  thou  shalt  gather  all  the  spoil 
of  it  into  the  midst  of  the  street  there- 
of, and  shalt  burn  with  Are  the  city, 
and  all  the  spoil  thereof  every  whit, 
for  the  Lord  thy  God:  and  it  shall  be 
an  heap  for  ever;  it  shall  not  be  built 
again. 

"And  there  shall  cleave  nought  of  the 
cursed  thing  to  thine  hand:  that  the 
Lord  may  turn  from  the  fierceness  of 
His  anger,  and  shew  thee  mercy,  and 
have  compassion  upon  thee,  and  multi- 
ply thee,  as  He  hath  sworn  unto  thy 
lathers; 

"When  thou  shalt  hearken  to  the 
voice  of  the  Lord  thy  God,  to  keep  all 
his  commandments  which  I  command 
thee  this  day,  to  do  that  which  is  right 
in  the  eyes  of  the  Lord  thy  God." 

This  was  a  revelation  given  to  Moses 
the  Prophet,  by  the  Lord  our  God, 
concerning  those  who  would  go  after 


idolatry  and  after  those  having  fa- 
miliar spirits,  who  would  seek  to  turn 
chem  away  from  the  Lord  our  God.  I 
want  to  tell  you  that  the  Lord  has  not 
revealed  a  principle  of  hypnotism 
among  the  children  of  men.  Hypnotism 
is  simply  a  power  by  which  a  man  can 
oxercise  an  influence  over  his  fellows, 
an  unrighteous  dominion,  which  is  con- 
trary to  the  commandments  of  God. 
There  are  a  number  of  men  and  women 
among  this  people  today  who  are  exer- 
cising an  unrighteous  dominion,  in  this 
manner,  among  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
I  want  to  life  up  my  voice  and  say, 
that  it  is  an  abomination  in  the  sight 
of  the  Lord  our  God.  I  may  read,  to 
advantage,  a  few  words  from  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants.  Speaking  of 
satan,  it  says: 

"Wherefore  he  maketh  war  with  the 
Saints  of  God,  and  encompasses  them 
round  about. 

"And  we  saw  a  vision  of 
the  sufferings  of  those  with  whom 
he  made  war  and  overcame,  for  thus 
came  the  voice  of  the  L6rd  unto  U3. 

"Thus  saith  the  Lord,  concerning  all 
those  who  know  my  power,  and  have 
been  made  partakers  thereof,  and  suf- 
fered themselves,  through  the  power  of 
the  devil,  to  be  overcome,  and  to  deny 
the  truth  and  defy  my  power— 

"They  are  they  who  are  the  sons 
of  perdition,  of  whom  I  say  that  it  had 
been  better  for  them  never  to  have 
been  born." 

That  includes  those  who  seek  to  ex- 
ercise tinrighteous  dominion  over  the 
souls  of  the  children  of  men,  who  have 
been  overcome  by  evil  influence  and 
evil  spirits. 

Now,  this  person  to  whom  I  referred, 
stated  to  the  Bishop  that  he  had  dis- 
covered something  that  would  help 
him,  that  was  beyond  the  power  of  the 
Priesthood  which  he  held,  and  that,  if 
he  (the  Bishop)  would  take  lessons  in 
this  art  of  hypnotism,  as  he  called  it, 
he  would  be  able  to  cast  a  spell  over 
his  congregation  and  they  would  do 
what  he  wanted  them  to  do. 
Supposing  this  Bishop  had  done 
what  had  been  suggested  to  him,  he 
vould  have  come  under  condemnation 
in  the  sight  of  God,  because  he  would 
have  been  exercising  unrighteous  do- 
minion, and  would  have  permitted  him- 
self to  have  been  overcome  by  the  pow- 
er of  the  devil,  and  would,  therefore, 
become  a  son  of  perdition,  as  I  have 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 


77 


read  to  you.  Now,  in  conformity  with 
this  principle  Brother  Cowley  has  just 
given,  that  we  teach  nothing  but  that 
which  is  given  by  revelation  from  God, 
let  me  ask  you,  has  any  such  princi- 
ple "as  hypnotism  been  given  by  rev- 
elation, or  has  it  been  approved  of  by 
the  Presidency  of  the  Church?  No,  it 
has  not,  and  it  is  not  right  for  us  to 
engage  in  the  exercise  of  these  powers, 
or  in  anything  of  that  character  that  is 
not  authorized  by  the  Gospel  of  Christ; 
for  the  Gospel,  as  Paul  says,  "Is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation,  to  every 
one  that  believeth;  to  the  Jew  first,  and 
also  to  the  Greek.  For  therein  is  the 
righteousness  of  God  revealed  from 
faith  to  faith,  as  it  is  written,  "The  just 
shall  live  by  faith." 

I  will  read  a  little  further  from  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  concerning 
these  sons  of  perdition: 

"For  they  are  vessels  of  wrath, 
doomed  to  suffer  the  wrath  of  God, 
with  the  devil  and  his  angels  in  eter- 
nity; 

"Concerning  whom  I  have  said  there 
is  no  forgiveness  in  this  world  nor  in 
the  world  to  come." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  one-half  of 
the  world  today  is  filled  with  idolaters, 
for  the  reason  that  men,  in  the  various 
ages  of  the  world,  permitted  themselves 
to  be  led  by  those  having  familiar  spir- 
its, and  they  wandered  away  from  the 
truth.  Here  is  Elder  Grant,  who  has 
just  come  from  Japan,  a  nation  of 
idolaters;  there  is  that  great  empire  of 
China,  containing  over  265  mil  ions  of 
people,  who  are  worshipers  of  idols. 
How  did  they  get  into  this  condition? 
Because  they  wandered  away  from  the 
teachings  and  revelations  of  God.  There 
is  nothing  that  can  break  through  this 
darkness  of  ages  and  enlighten  their 
minds,  excepting  it  be  a  new  revelation 
from  the  Eternal  Father. 

We  have  had  a  number  of  younj; 
men  go  east  to  study  medicine  and  oth- 
er branches  of  knowledge,  and  some  of 
them  have  come  back,  not  only  as  grad- 
uates in  the  science  they  studied,  but 
as  professors  of  hypnotism.  I  say  it 
is  not  of  God,  and  is  an  abomination 
in  His  sight,  and  if  they  do  not  repent 
of  their  sins,  as  sure  as  God  lives,  the 
judgments  spoken  of  in  the  revelation, 
from  which  I  have  read,  will  come  up- 
on them,  and  they  will  wander  away  in- 


to darkness,  and  will  not  be  acknowl- 
edged of  the  Lord.  I  want  to  advise 
the  young  ladies,  while  upon  this  sub- 
ject, not  to  follow  after  peep-stone  wo- 
men, fortune-tellers,  or  those  claiming 
to  have  a  familiar  spirit,  to  get  them 
to  tell  .you  the  kind  of  a  husband  you 
will  marry,  or  you  young  men  the  kind 
of  a  wife  you  will  get.  I  will  tell  you 
where  to  go;  go  to  the  "Patriarch  of  the 
Church,  who  holds  the  blessings  of 
God's  people  in  his  hands,  and  what- 
ever he  seals  on  earth  will  be  sealed 
in  heaven.  If  you  will  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  God  and  live  your  re- 
ligion, the  Lord  will  bless  you. 

Elder  Cowley  desires  me  to  read  the 
following  upon  this  subject,  (Isaiah, 
Chap.  8)." 

"And  when  they  shall  say  unto  you, 
seek  unto  them  that  have  familiar  spir- 
its, and  unto  wizards  that  peep 
and  that  mutter;  should  not 
a  people  seek  unto  their  God 
for      the      living      to      the  dead? 

"To  the  law  and  to  the  testimony;  if 
they  speak  not  according  to  this  word, 
it  is  because  there  is  no  light  in  them. 

"And  they  shall  pass  through  it 
hardly  bestead  and  hungry:  and  it  shall 
come  to  pass,  that,  when  they  shall  be 
hungry,  they  shall  fret  themselves  and 
curse  their  king  and  their  God,  and 
look  upward. 

"And  they  shall  look  unto  the  earth; 
rind  behold  trouble  and  darkness,  dim- 
riess  of  anguish;  and  they  shall  be 
driven  to  darkness." 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  this 
has  been  literally  fulfilled  upon  the 
idolatrous  nations  of  the  earth.  Let 
us  not  be  deceived,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  or  lead  astray  by  those  who  are 
muttering  and  seeking  to  give  the  peo- 
ple a  little  temporal  satisfaction,  for 
it  will  result  in  incurring  the  displeas- 
ure of  God  upon  us. 

I  will  read  a  little  more  from  the  book 
of  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  I  want  to 
say  that  any  theory  or  doctrine  that 
brings  destruction  upon  the  souls  of 
the  children  of  men  is  not  from  God, 
hut  is  from  satan,  the  father  of  all  lies 
from  the  beginning.  In  the  beginning 
he  suggested  a  plan  whereby  he  would 
oblige  the  children  of  men  to  keep  the 
commandments  of  God;  but  the  Savior 
wanted  to  do  the  will  of  the  Father, 
and  the  Father  wanted  His  children  to  . 
have  their  free  agency  and  to  work 
out  their  individual  salvation,  through 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances 
of  the  Gospel;  and  the  Father  has  said, 
as  contained  in  the  Doctrine  and  Cov- 
enants: 

"That  the  rights  of  the  Priesthood  are 
inseparably  connected  with  the  pow- 
ers of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of 
heaven  cannot  be  controlled  nor  hand- 
led only  upon  the  principles  of  righte- 
ousness." 

Is  a  man  acting  in  accordance  with 
the  laws  of  the  Gospel  in  endeavoring 
to  cast  a  spell  over  the  people?  No, 
it  is  not  of  God.    It  says: 

"That  they  may  be  conferred  upon  us, 
U  is  true,  but  when  we  undertake  to 
rover  our  sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride, 
our  vain  ambition,  or  to  exercise  con- 
trol, or  dominion,  or  compulsion,  upon 
the  souls  of  the  children  of  men,  in  any 
degree  of  unrighteousness,  behold,  the 
heavens  withdraw  themselves;  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  grieved;  and  when 
it  is  withdrawn,  amen  to  the  Priest- 
hood, or  the  authority  of  that  man." 

"We  read,  in  the  papers,  almost  week- 
ly, of  people  being  accused  of  casting 
spells  over  our  sons  and  daughters  and 
leading  them  astray.  Is  it  not  time 
that  someone  was  standing  up  and 
speaking  in  plainness  regarding  these 
rvils?   I  will  read  a  little  further. 

"No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought 
to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the 
Priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by  long 
suffering,  by  gentleness,  and  meekness, 
and  by  love  unfeigned; 

"By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge, 
which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the  soul 
without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile." 

This  is  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel.  It 
pays: 

"Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  char- 
ity towards  all  men,  and  to  the  house- 
hold of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish 
thy  thoughts  unceasingly,  then  shall 
thy  confidence  wax  strong  in  the  pres- 
fnce  of  God,  and  the  doctrine  of  the 
Priesthood  shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as 
the  dews  from  heaven. 

"The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  con- 
stant companion,  and  thy  sceptre  an 
unchanging  sceptre  of  righteousness 
find  truth,  and  thy  dominion  shall  be  an 
c-verlasting  dominion,  and  without  com- 
pulsory means  it  shall  flow  unto  thee 
for  ever  and  ever." 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  you  may  walk  in  the  straight 
and  narrow  path,  and  not  yield  to  the 
influences  of  evil  spirits,  but  that  you 
thall  be  guided  by  the  influence  and  in- 
spiration of  the  Holy  Spirit,  which  will 
lead  you  unto  eternal  life.    May  God 


grant  that  this  may  be  our  lot,  is  my 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  General  Authorities  were  pre- 
sented and  unanimously  sustained  by 
vote  of  the  assemblage. 

The  choir  sang: 

Zion  stands  with  hills  surrounded. 

ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters, 
I  thought  I  was  quite  a  rap- 
id speaker  myself,  but  Brother 
Grant  (who  has  just  presented 
the  general  authorities  of  the  Church) 
has  so  outdistanced  me  that  It  has 
made  me  a  little  nervous. 

I  have  rejoiced  exceedingly  in  the 
spirit  of  this  great  conference,  which  is 
now  drawing  to  a  close. 

Much  has  been  said,  during  the  gen- 
eral meetings  of  this  conference,  in  re- 
gard to  looking  after  the  young  of  our 
community.  As  I  am  a  young  man  my- 
self, and  have  the*  same  feelings,  to  a 
great  extent,  that  other  young  men  in 
our  midst  have,  I  desire  to  say  a  few 
words  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  re- 
gard to  the  way  they  approach  their 
sons  and  daughters  with  reference  to 
some  of  these  matters  that  have  been 
mentioned,  and,  in  doing  so,  I  do  not 
wish  to  declare,  or  to  be  understood  as 
proclaiming,  that  there  are  conditions 
existing  among  our  people  that  ought 
not  to  exist;  for  I  believe  we  are  freer 
from  the  vices,  crimes  and  evils  which 
exist  in  the  world  than  any  other  peo- 
ple to  be  found  on  the  face  of  the  earth. 
I  am  not  inclined  to  take  a  pessimistic 
view  of  humanity,  and,  thus  far,  have 
been  able  to  recognize  some  good  in 
the  efforts  and  acts  of  men.  I  believe, 
as  Elder  Douglas  M.  Todd  expressed 
himself  at. one  of  our  conferences  lately, 
that  we  ought  to  preach  the  Gospel  us- 
ing ten  words  of  commendation  and  in- 
struction where  we  would  use  one  of 
condemnation.  I  also  think  it  is  not  a 
good  thing  for  the  Latter-day  Saint 
parents  to  doubt  the  integrity  or  hones- 
ty of  their  children.  Personally,  I  can- 
not conceive  of  anything  that  could  have 
shaken  my  faith  more  in  my  parents 
or  associates,  when  a  boy,  than  to  have 
had  them  ask  me  something  regarding 
myself,  or  regarding  anything,  and  then 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


79 


■have  them  doubt  my  answer.  I  believe 
it  would  be  better  for  the  parents  to  en- 
quire of  their  sons  and  daughters  in 
regard  to  their  habits,  and,  in  nine 
-cases  out  of  ten,  they  will  tell  you  the 
truth. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  believe 
that,  in  the  vast  majority  of  cases, 
where  fathers  or  mothers  will  sit  down 
with  their  sons  and  their  daughters 
and  question  them  in  regard  to  their 
past  conduct,  they  will  be  honest  and 
frank  with  those  fathers  and  mothers, 
and  tell  them  the  truth.  I  have  that 
much  faith  in  humanity,  and  I  do  not 
want  anyone  to  be  suspicious  of  me;  if 
they  want  to  know  anything  regarding 
my  past  life,  I  want  them  to  ask  me, 
and,  with  the  help  of  the  Lord,  I  will 
tell  them  the  truth.  I  believe  there  are  a 
number  of  young  men  in  the  Church 
who  feel  exactly  the  same  way,  and 
that  they  are  not  afraid  to  have  their 
fathers  and  mothers  become  acquainted 
with  their  past;  but  the  trouble  is,  or 
bas  been,  in  many  instances,  that  the 
parents  have  not  been  as  companionable 
with  their  sons  and  daughters  as  they 
ought  to  have  been.  They  have  pushed 
them  away,  rather  than  drawn  them  to 
them. 

I  feel  doubly  interested  in  this  matter, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  I  believe 
that  we  have  a  good  young  people,  and 
I  do  not  wish  to  magnify  their  faults, 
which  exist,  perhaps,  to  a  greater  de- 
gree than  they  ought.  I  believe  that 
the  burden  of  the  responsibility  for  the 
secret  crimes  and  vices,  which  it  is  re- 
ported are  making  headway  among  our 
people,  rests  upon  the  heads  of  the  fa- 
thers and  mothers,  from  the  fact  that 
they  have  not  cautioned  their  sons  and 
daughters  against  such  things.  If  the 
parents  want  to  rid  themselves  of  this 
responsibility,  let  them  remember,  and 
put  into  practice,  the  passage  Elder 
Cowley  read  in  your  hearing  here,  plac- 
ing the  responsibility  where  it  belongs, 
at  least  until  children  come  to  be  of 
that  age  that  they  are  adit  <o  judge  be- 
tween good  and  evil.  My  brethren  and 
sisters,  if  you  cannot  teach  your  child- 
ren and  bring  them  up  in  the  knowledge 
of  the  Gospel  in  the  spirit  of  kindness, 
as  stated  in  the  revelation  in  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  from  which  Elder 
Taylor  has  just  read — if  you  cannot  turn 


them  from  evil  with  the  spirit  of  kind- 
ness and  persuasion,  and  by  reasoning 
with  them,  you  cannot  do  it  by  force. 

I  firmly  believe  that  ignorance  is  the 
mother  of  crime,  and  that  if  any  one 
who  has  sinned  knew  the  results 
of  wrong-doing,  they  would  not  have 
done  so  with  their  eyes  open;  for  I  be- 
lieve it  is  due  to  our  ignorance  of  the  re- 
sults of  wrong-doing,  our  ignorance  of 
the  consequence  that  will  surely  over- 
take us  for  committing  wrong.  Inas- 
much as  the  glory  of  God  is  intelli- 
gence, let  us  see  to  it  that  we  try,  in  an 
intelligent  manner,  and  in  the  spirit  of 
love  and  kindness  to  make  plain  to  the 
young  men  and  young  women  of  Zion 
the  terrible  consequences  of  wrong  do- 
ing, and  see  to  it  that  they  are  warned; 
then  if  they  go  astray,  their  blood  will 
not  be  required  at  the  hands  of  their 
parents. 

God  bless  you,  brethren  and  sisters.  I 
Anow  that  you  are  all  anxious  to  hear 
from  Brother  Grant;  he  may  not  be 
with  us  at  our  next  conference.  I  pray 
God's  blessings  upon  you  and  all  Israel, 
in  this  matter  of  which  I  have  spoken; 
may  we  go  at  it  in  the  proper  way, 
and  not  do  more  harm  than  good  in  en- 
deavoring to  follow  out  what  has  been 
said,  but  that  we  may  be  governed  al- 
ways by  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I  ask  it  for  Christ's 
sake.  Amen. 

ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

I  am  delighted,  as  I  stated  here  this 
morning,  and  yesterday  in  the  Taber- 
nacle, to  be  with  you.  I  have  rejoiced, 
beyond  my  power  to  tell,  in  the  rich 
outpourings  of  the  Holy  Spirit  upon 
those  who  have  spoken. 

I  endorse  all  that  has  been  said  here 
this  afternoon.  I  also  bear  my  testi- 
mony, in  connection  with  that  of  Apos- 
tle Cowley,  that  if  we  will  study  the 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
from  which  he  has  read  to  us  this 
afternoon,  and  get  the  spirit  of  the 
Lord,  and  teach  our  children  in  their 
youth,  that  God  will  bless  us  with  influ- 
ence, and  that  our  children  will  grow 
up  with  a  love  for  the  Gospel.  Let  us 
teach  our  children  by  example  as  well 
as  by  precept.  When  we  earn  a  dollar 
let  us  pay  ten  cents  as  tithing;  when 


so 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


we  give  the  children  a  dollar  tell  them 
to  pay  ten  cents  to  the  Lord.    Let  us 
see  that  they    go    regularly    to  their 
Sunday   Schools,   their   Primaries  and 
their  Mutual  Improvement  associations, 
and,  in  this  way,  they  will  get  Inter- 
ested and  learn  to  love  the  work  of  the 
Lord;   their  time  and  talents  will  be 
occupied,  and  they  will  have  no  time  to 
waste  with  those  things  that  are  of  no 
good.    I  have  heard  men  and  women 
say  that  they  were  going  to  let  their 
sens  and  daughters  grow  to  maturity 
before  they  sought  to  teach  them  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel,  that  they  were 
not  going  to  cram   the  Gospel  down, 
them  in  their  childhood,   before  they 
were  able  to  comprehend  it.    When  I 
hear  men  and  women  say  this,  I  think 
they  are  lacking  faith  in  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel  and  do  not  comprehend 
it"  as  they  should.    The  Lord  has  said 
it  is  our  duty  to  teach  our  children 
in  their  youth,  and  I  prefer  to  take  His 
words  for  it  rather  than  the  words  of 
those  who  are  not  obeying  His  com- 
mandments. It  is  folly  to  imagine  that 
our  children  will  grow  up  with  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  Gospel  without  teaching. 
Some  men  and  women  argue,  "Well,  I 
am  a  Latter-day  Saint,  my  wife  is  a 
Latter-day  Saint,  and  we  were  married 
in  the  temple,  and  were  sealed  over  the 
altar  by  one  having  the  Priesthood  of 
God,  according  to  the  new  and  ever- 
lasting covenant,  and  our  children  are 
bound  to  grow  up  and  be  good  Latter- 
day  Saints;  they  cannot  help  it;  it  is 
born  in  them."      I  have  learned  the 
multiplication  table,   and  so  has  my 
wife;  but    do    you    think  I    am  big- 
enough  fool  to  believe  that  our  chil- 
dren will  be  born  with  a  knowledge  of 
the  multiplication  table?    I  may  know 
that  the  Gospel  is  true,  and  so  may  my 
wife;  but  I  want  to  tell  you  that  our 
children  will  not  know  that  the  Gospel 
is  true,  unless  they  study  it  and  gain 
a  testimony  for  themselves.  Parents 
are  deceiving  themselves  In  imagining 
that  their  children  will  be  born  with  a 
knowledge  of    the    Gospel.    Of  course, 
they  will  have  greater  claim  upon  the 
blessings  of  God,  being  born  under  the 
new  and  everlasting  covenant,  and  it 
will  come  natural  for  them  to  grow  up 
and  perform  their  duties;  but  the  devil 
realizes  this,  and  is  therefore  seeking 


all  the  harder  to  lead  our  children  from 
the  truth. 

I  endorse,  with  all  my  heart,  the  re- 
marks made  here  by  Brother  Taylor. 
In  talking  to  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
there  is  no  revelation  in  all  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  that  I  have  quot- 
ed from  so  often  as  that  contained  in 
section  121,  from  which  Elder  Taylor 
has  just  been  reading:  That  "No  pow- 
er or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be 
maintained  by  virtue  of  the  Priesthood, 
only  by  persuasion,  by  long  suffering, 
by  gentleness,  and  meekness,  and  by 
love  unfeigned."  There  is  no  danger  of 
a  Priesthood  of  this  kind — gentleness, 
and  meekness,  and  love  unfeigned.  But 
when  we  exercise  the  power  of  the 
Priesthood,  as  Brother  Taylor  has  read, 
to  "Gratify  our  pride,  our  vain  ambi- 
tion, or  to  exercise  control,  or  domin- 
ion.or  compulsion,  upon  the  souls  of  the 
children  of  men,  in  any  degree  of  un- 
righteousness, behold,  the  heavens 
withdraw  themselves;  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  is  grieved;  and  when  it  is  with- 
drawn, Amen  to  the  Priesthood,  or  the 
authority  of  that  man."  These  are 
the  words  of  God.  I  am  reminded  of 
a  man  that  lost  the  apostleship.  Time 
and  time  again  he  quoted  the  above  to 
the  people,  but  he  did  not  abide  by  it 
himself.  He  failed  to  sustain  the 
Priesthood  and  exercised  unrighteous 
dominion  over  those  under  him. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  will 
study  the  Scriptures,  the  plan  of  life 
and  salvation,  keeping  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord,  all  the  promises  that 
have  been  made  will  be  fulfilled  upon 
our  heads,  and  we  will  grow  and  in- 
crease in  light,  knowledge  and  intelli- 
gence. There  is  no  such  thing  as 
standing  still.  The  Church  is 
not  standing  still;  we  have 
the  evidence  today  of  its  growth, 
of  its  increased  tithes,  the  increased 
results  of  the  missionary  work  all  over 
the  world,  and  the  increased  efficiency 
of  the  work  in  the  colleges,  the  Latter- 
day  Saints'  university  and  academies. 
There  has  also  been  a  wonderful  growth 
in  the  Sabbath  schools.  The  work  of 
God  is  progressing,  and  the  power  and 
influence  of  the  adversary  and  those 
who  are  working  against  us  are  waning. 
We  find,  for  instance,  that  the  forces 
that  used  to  work  against  us  in  Wash- 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


81 


Jngton,  seeking  to  take  from  us  our 
Tights  and  liberty,  have  disappeared; 
»nd  many  of  the  men  that  were  active 
and  full  of  bitterness  toward  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  have  learned  to  respect 
and  honor  them,  and  are  willing  to 
speak  a  good  word  for  them.  I  want 
to  say  to  you  that  I  never  enjoyed  a 
little  speech  more  in  all  my  life  than 
that  of  Robert  N.  Baskin,  one  of  the 
supreme  court  judges,  at  Saltair,  on 
the  birthday  of  our  late  Prest.  Brigham 
Young,  last  June.  I  rejoiced  exceeding- 
ly to  hear  Judge  Baskin  paying  a  high 
tribute  to  the  pioneers  and  to  Prest. 
Brigham  Young.  He  is  not  the  only 
honest,  straight-forward  man  who  was 
once  very  much  opposed  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  who  today  takes  pleasure  in 
bearing  testimony  as  to  the  honor  and 
integrity  of  the  Mormon  people. 

I  rejoice  in  the  great  growth  of  the 
Church,  in  fulfillment  of  the  prophecy 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  should  be  driven,  and 
many  put  to  death  by  their  persecutors, 
and  others  lose  their  lives  in  conse- 
quence of  exposure  and  disease;  and 
that  some  should  live  to  go  to  the 
Rocky  mountains  and  assist  in  building 
settlements  and  cities,  live  to  see  the 
Saints  become  a  mighty  people  in  the 
midst  of  the  Rocky  mountains.  I  re- 
joice that  we  have  become  a  mighty 
people.  The  growth  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  in  view  of  all  the  oDnosition  and 
persecution  against  the  people,  is  sim- 
ply marvelous,  and  we  are  being  looked 
upon  in  wonder  and  amazement  by  in- 
telligent people. 

Elder  Grant  referred  to  the  necessity 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  listening  to 
and  following  the  inspiration  of  the 
Lord,  as  it  came  through  the  head  of 
the  Church.  Gave  as  an  illustration 
the  wonderful  success  of  the  Utah 
Sugar  company.  Mentioned  the  fact 
that  the  stockholders  of  this  com- 
pany had  recently  sold  a  half 
interest  on  a  basis  of  a  profit  of  over 
a  million  dollars  above  the  original 
eost.  Spoke  of  the  discouragements  at 
the  time  the  industry  was  being  start- 
ed, Defore  the  factory  was  built;  that 


he  and  his  associate  Apostles  felt  that 
the  industry  would  not  be  successful, 
and  begged  President  Woodruff  to  pay 
the  agreed  forfeit  of  $50,000,  rather  than 
to  build  the  factory.  President  Wood- 
ruff s^id  that  he  had  followed  the  light 
and  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  all  his 
life,  and  that  there  was  light  ahead  in 
building  the  factory,  but  that  it  ap- 
peared dark  to  him  to  abandon  the  en- 
terprise; and,  notwithstanding  the  fi- 
nancial distress  of  the  Church,  and 
many  of  the  leading  members  of  the 
Church,  at  that  time,  he  insisted  that 
the  enterprise  should  be  carried  out. 
To  Wiil'ord  Woodruff,  because  of  the 
inspiration  of  the  Lord  to  him,  more 
credit  is  due  than  to  any  other  man  for 
the  success  of  this  enterprise,  and  the 
people  can  thank  him  that  they  are  now 
dividing  over  a  million  dollars  of  prof- 
it, to  say  nothing  about  the  wonder- 
ful increase  in  the  value  of  farming 
lands  ii  the  vicinity  of  the  factory,  and 
the  benefits  derived  because  of  the 
erection  of  other  factories,  which  prob- 
ably would  never  have  been  built  had 
it  not  been  for  the  success  attending 
the  Utah  sugar  factory.  After  President 
Woodruff  had  given  his  opinion,  under 
the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  the  Apos- 
tles labored  with  all  zeal  and  energy  to 
promote  this  industry,  many  of  them 
borrowing  large  sums  of  money  to  in- 
vest, having  confidence  in  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Lord  through  the 
Prophet  of  God.  Their  example  is 
worthy  of  the  emulation  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

Gol  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters. God  bless  all  the  institutions  of 
Zion,  and  help  us,  one  and  all,  to  be 
true  and  faithful,  to  be  diligent  in  the 
performance  of  our  duties,  and  to  set 
an  example  worthy  of  the  imitation  of 
the  world.  May  God  help  us  to  do  this, 
and  to  teach  our  children,  that  they 
may  be  exalted  with  us  in  the  Celestial 
kingdom  of  God,  is  my  prayer,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

I 

The  choir  sang: 

A  home  on  high. 
Benediction  by  Elder  Henry  Beal. 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


AT  THE  TABERNACLE. 

Closing  session,  2  p.  m. 
The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 

Praise  the  Lord,  all  ye  nations. 
Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  David 
John. 
The  anthem: 

"Hark!   hark!   my  soul! 
was  sung-  by  the  choir. 

PATRIARCH  JOHN  SMITH. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  with 
peculiar  feelings  that  I  stand  before 
you.  For  one  reason,  I  was  not  ex- 
pecting to  occupy  this  position;  but  I 
trust,  by  your  faith  and  prayers  I  may 
say  something  which  will  be  of  bene- 
fit, not  only  to  you,  but  to  myself.  I 
can  bear  testimony  to  the  truth  of  that 
which  we  have  heard  thus  far  during 
this  conference.  I  can  bear  testimony 
that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  has  been 
with  us,  and  has  guided  those  who 
have  spoken  to  us.  I  trust  that  we  as 
Latter-day  Saints,  will  treasure  up  in 
our  minds  that  which  we  have  heard, 
and  carry  it  with  us  to  our  homes,  that 
it  may  abide  with  us  and  guide  our  ac- 
tions in  the  future.  I  can  bear  testi- 
mony that  this  is  the  work  of  God,  and 
that  we  are  His  people.  So  far  as  we 
will  follow  the  instructions  we  receive 
from  those  who  are  set  to  preside,  and 
be  guided  by  our  Father  in  h  aven,  I 
know  that  His  blessings  will  rest  upon 
us.  If  we  will  strive  to  do  our  duty, 
live  our  religion,  and  conduct  ourselves 
in  that  way  that  shall  be  pleasing  unto 
our  Father  in  heaven,  all  will  be  well 
with  us.  I  know  that  my  Redeemer 
lives,  and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and 
that  if  we  will  do  our  duty  as  Latter- 
day  Saints  we  will  reap  the  reward 
which  our  Father  has  in  store  for  us. 
I  feel  to  exhort  my  brethren  and  sisters 
to  faithfulness  and  to  diligence;  for  we 
understand  that  every  Latter-day  Saint 
has  certain  known  duties  to  perform. 
We  realize  that  it  is  our  duty  to  re- 
member our  prayers,  to  pay  our  tithes 
and  offerings,  and  to  do  unto  others  as 
we  would  wish  them  to  do  unto  us  un- 
der like  circumstances.  But  if  I  have 
a  hobby,  it  is  what  I  have  said  in  times 
past:  I  feel  to  exhort  my  young  breth- 
ren to  faithfulness,    to    diligence  of 


duty,  to  prepare  themselves  by  study 
and  by  attending  the  Mutual  improve- 
ment associations,  and  striving  to  in- 
form their  minds  at  home,  that  when 
they  are  called  to  labor  in  the  minis- 
try they  may  go  forward  enabled  to 
perform  that  duty  unto  which  they  may 
be  called;  for  I  realize,  from  many  cir- 
cumstances I  have  seen,  that  often- 
times our  boys,  although  they  are  hon- 
est and  willing  to  do  their  duty,  have 
neglected  to  prepare  themselves  for  the 
ministry,  so  much  so  that  when  they 
get  into  the  field  they  are  at  a  lost,, 
and  it  takes  them  sometime  before 
they  can  commence  to  do  that  amount 
of  good  that  they  would  do  from  the 
start  if  they  informed  their  minds  be- 
fore they  left  home.  I  feel  to  strive  to 
know  my  duty  and  to  perform  the  same 
in  that  way  and  manner  that  shall 
meet  the  approval  of  my  Father  in 
heaven.  I  desire  an  interest  in  the 
prayers  of  the  Saints,  that  I  may  be 
able  to  fill  my  mission  in  honor  and 
accomplish  the  work  whereunto  my 
Father  in  heaven  has  called  me.  May 
the  blessings  of  our  Father  rest  upon 
all  Isreal,  and  guide  us  in  the  true 
path,  that  when  we  have  finished  our 
course  we  may  be  worthy  of  the  bless- 
ings which  He  has  promised  us,  is  may 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  BRIGHAM  YOUNG. 

The  time  to  favor  Zion  come-— Prnpheti'  declara- 
tions fulfilled — Evidence  of  GrO'P-  har  d  over 
the  Saints — Ma-lyrdnm  of  Joseph  and  Hyrum 

This  is  a  day  of  rejoicing,  and  I  feel 
to  bless  the  name  of  my  Redeemer  for 
the  privilege  -  that  I  have  of  meeting 
with  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  this  con- 
ference. It  is  not  often  that  we  behold 
so  many  of  our  people  assembled  to- 
gether as  we  witness  this  day,  beneath 
this  roof.  God  is  exceedingly  merciful 
unto  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  am 
satisfied  that  prosperity  and  peace  will 
dwell  in  their  midst,  as  long  as  they 
observe  to  keep  His  commandments. 
The  set  time  has  come  to  favor  Zion. 
Zion  has  been  favored  all  the  days  that 
I  remember  in  this  life.  Though  driven 
and  peeled  by  our  enemies,  God  has 
sustained  us,  and  we  have  grown,  and 
enlarged,  and  built  up  the  country,  and 
become  a  great  people.  I  have  often 
heard  the  brethren  prophesy  of  the  day 


PRESIDENT  BRIGHAM  YOUNG. 


83 


which  we  now  behold — that  the  few 
who  were  gathered  here  upon  a  ten- 
acre  block  would  multiply,  others 
would  gather  in,  and  a  great  people 
would  be  established  in  these  moun- 
tains. How  speedily  have  these  words 
been  fulfilled!  God  is  blessing  the  peo- 
ple. We  witness  it  upon  every  hand; 
and  if  we  continue  to  grow  in  grace 
and  in  the  knowledge  of  the  truth 
as  it  is  in  Him,  this  people  will  soon 
be  the  head,  not  the  tall;  for  virtue, 
uprightness,  honesty  and  continuity  of 
purpose  will  bring  the  honest  and  the 
pure  to  the  head  of  the  whole  world. 
I  know  something  about  the  condition 
of  the  nations,  our  own  nation  included. 
The  wickedness  that  is  abroad  in  the 
land  is  a  reproach  to  the  United  States. 
It  is  a  reproach  to  us  that  wickedness 
should  prevail  to  the  extent  that  it 
does.  But  as  true  as  there  is  a  God 
in  heaven,  the  Latter-day  Saints — not 
the  latter-day  sinners,  but  the  Latter- 
day  Saints— and  the  pure  who  do  not 
claim  to  be  Latter-day  Saints,  will  rise 
up  and  be  the  head  of  this  nation.  I 
do  not  say  that  we  are  a  government 
within  a  government.  We  are  one  with 
our  parent  government.  But  purity, 
excellency  and  honesty  are  sure  to  bring 
a  people  to  the  front.  God  designs  it, 
and  it  will  come  to  pass. 

I  feel  to  bless  this  people  with  all 
my  heart  and  soul.  I  feel  to  bless  every 
man  and  woman,  of  whatever  land  or 
religious  denomination  they  may  be, 
who  feel  to  exalt  Christ  and  Him  cruci- 
fied, and  who  preach  this  doctrine  for 
the  salvation  of  the  human  family.  God 
help  them;  God  help  us.  When  the 
record  is  written  and  published  that 
this  people  have  made,  under  the  guid- 
ance of  inspired  men,  it  will  equal  if 
not  surpass  any  record  that  the  people 
of  God  have  ever  made  on  this  globe. 
It  is  a  testimony  in  and  of  itself  that 
should  convince  all  men  who  are  ac- 
quainted with  it,  that  the  people  are 
guided  by  the  hand  of  Jehovah.  But 
there  is  something  beyond  this  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  Who  is  there  in  this 
congregation  that  has  the  living  tes- 
timony and  the  fire  of  the  Spirit  of  God 
in  them?  Brethren  and  sisters,  answer 
that  yourselves.  Have  I  that  testimony 
in  me?  Have  you  that  testimony  in 
you?   It  is  the  priceless  gem  that  God 


bestows  upon  His  anointed,  and  upon 
His  sons  and  daughters  who  seek  Him 
with  undivided  hearts.  I  know  that 
this  people  have  it,  because  I  see  and 
feel  it.  The  inspiring  influences  of  that 
Spirit  are  in  the  midst  of  this  people; 
and  we  are  bound  to  succeed,  because 
there  is  no  power  that  can  resist  the 
influences  of  that  Spirit  and  the  reve- 
lations of  God.  Never  in  the  history 
of  this  people  will  evil  come  upon  them, 
unless  they  forsake  their  Redeemer. 
Never  will  sickness,  death  or  anything 
come  in  your  homes,  but  what  God  de- 
signs it  for  the  benefit,  the  upbuilding 
and  enlarging  of  the  dominion  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  We  have  control 
over  sickness — how  far?  Are  there  any 
deaths  among  us?  There  are,  and  good 
people  die;  but  there  is  something  in 
this  that  is  far  beyond  my  understand- 
ing; for  I  remember  the  time  well  when 
our  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  our  Pa- 
triarch Hyrum  Smith — two  of  the  no- 
blest men  that  ever  stood  upon  the 
earth — rode  to  their  death.  They  went 
to  death  at  Carthage.  What  for?  To 
leave  the  people  without  a  shepherd? 
To  leave  us  there  in  the  midst  of  our 
enemies,  trembling  and  like  lost  sheep? 
Oh,  no!  They  went  to  seal  their  testi- 
mony with  their  blood,  which  cannot 
be  refuted  by  all  the  world.  They 
gave  their  lives  to  sustain  this  work, 
and  it  was  necessary,  according  to  the 
revelations  that  we  have  received.  Are 
we  any  better  than  they?  Are  we  any 
better  than  Christ?  No.  If  God  per- 
mits a  thing,  shall  we  complain  at  it? 
But  I  do  testify  to  you  this  day  that 
nothing  will  come  to  me,  nothing  will 
come  to  you,  to  your  families,  or  to 
anything  that  God  has  given  you,  but 
what  you  will  acknowledge  His  hand  in 
it,  and  it  will  be  for  your  salvation  and 
the  salvation  of  your  families.  I  know 
it  because  God  is  doing  this  work.  He 
has  the  issues  of  life  and  death  in  His 
hands,  and  I  know  that  when  these 
things  occur,  His  hand  is  in  them,  if 
we  are  living  right  before  Him;  and 
there  is  no  power  beneath  the  earth  nor 
above  the  earth  that  can  check  this, 
handiwork  of  the  Almighty  for  the  up- 
lifting, guiding  and  consolidating  of 
His  people.  These  things  are  hard  to 
bear;  but,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  say 
to  you  as  I  say  to  myself;  in  rr>'  pray- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ers  every  day  I  acknowledge  His  hand 
in  all  things,  because  I  know  He  has 
my  welfare  at  heart,  come  life  or  death, 
poverty,  riches,  persecution,  or  what- 
ever it  is.  The  Church  of  Christ  will 
rise;  the  kingdom  of  God  will  burst 
forth,  His  purposes  will  be  accom- 
plished, and  the  exaltation  of  the  faith- 
ful will  be  assured,  and  no  one  can  hin- 
der it. 

I  testify  of  these  things  unto  you.  I 
would  like  to  talk  a  little  longer,  but 
there  is  no  time;  indeed  I  am  not  able 
to  talk  more.  But  I  want  to  bless  the 
people.  I_want  you  to  hear  my  voice, 
for  it  is  not  stilled  yet.  I  want  you  to 
hear  me  say,  God  bless  you,  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  all  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  from  the  center  to  the  extremi- 
ties. God  be  with  the  people.  He  is 
with  them,  and  He  will  continue  to  be. 
We  need  not  to  fear  famine,  nor  drouth, 
nor  grasshoppers,  nor  insects  of  any 
kind;  we  need  not  to  fear  any  foemen, 
nor  any  weapon.  Pear  God,  and  Him 
only;  for  He  will  bear  us  oft  victorious 
under  all  circumstances.  We  will  live 
and  grow  and  become  better,  and  rise 
higher  and  become  nobler  and  more 
efficient  in  our  labors,  if  we  serve  Him 
with  undivided  hearts.  God  grant  that 
this  may  be  the  case  with  all  of  us; 
that  we  may  never  shirk  a  duty,  nor 
turn  pale  nor  our  knees  tremble  before 
our  enemies.  May  He  give  us  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  much  of  it,  to 
send  the  Gospel  forth  to  the  nations, 
open  up  new  missions,  go  to  those  who 
sit  in  darkness,  preach  the  Gospel  by 
the  power  of  the  Spirit  to  the  poor  and 
the  destitute,  to  those  who  are  not  civ- 
ilized as  well  as  those  who  are.  May  He 
give  us  the  power  to  accomplish  this 
great  work,  and  build  up  His  kingdom, 
labor  in  His  Temples,  and  accomplish 
a  work  for  the  living  and  the  dead,  that 
all  may  rise  together,  and  that  we  may 
become  a  power  in  the  earth  and  fill 
the  whole  earth,  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 
Let  the  mountains  shout  for  joy. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  P.  SMITH 
presented,  to  be  voted  upon  by  the  con- 
ference, the 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OP  THH 
CHURCH, 

as  follows: 

Joseph  P.  Smith,  as  Prophet,  Seer  and 
Revelator  and  President  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

John  R.  Winder,  as  First  Counselor  in 
the  First  Presidency. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  Second  Counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

Brigham  Toung,  as  President  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles. 

As  members  of  the  Council  of  Twelve 
Apostles:  Brigham  Toung,  Francis  M. 
Lyman,  John  Henry  Smith,  George 
Teasdale,  Heber  J.  Grant,  John  W. 
Taylor,  Marriner  W.  Merrill,  Matthias 
P.  Cowley,  Abraham  O.  Woodruff, 
Rudger  Clawson,  Reed  Smoot  and  Hy- 
rum  M.  Smith. 

John  Smith,  as  Presiding  Patriarch 
of  the  Church. 

The  counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  the  Twelve  Apostles  as 
Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

First  seven  presidents  of  Seventies: 
Seymour  B.  Toung,  Christian  D.  Fjeld- 
sted,  Brigham  Henry  Roberts,  George 
Reynolds,  Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon 
S.  Wells  and  Joseph  W.  McMurrin. 

Wiliam  B.  Preston,  as  Presiding 
Bishop,  with  Robert  T.  Burton  and  Or- 
rin  P.  Miller  as  his  first  and  second 
counselors. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  Trustee-in-Trust 
for  the  body  of  religious  worshipers 
known  as  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

As  members  of  the  General  Church 
Board  of  Education:  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
Willard  Toung,  Anthon  H.  Lund, 
James  Sharp,  John  Nicholson,  George 
H.  Brimhall,  Rudger  Clawson,  Joseph 
-M.  Tanner  and  John  R.  Winder. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  Church  His- 
torian and  General  Church  Recorder. 

Andrew  Jenson,  O.  F.  Whitney,  A.  M. 
Musser  and  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  as- 
sistant historians. 

John  Nicholson,  as  clerk  of  the  con- 
ference. 

All  of  the  voting  was  unanimous. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


85 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

Ennobling  rules  of  conduct— Man's  indebtedness  to 
Q  id— Tae  only  pat  iwajf  to  exaltation— Good- 
will toward  all  men— Unity  a  principle  of 
power — Parental  care  of  the  family. 

I  desire  to  express  my  sincere  grati- 
tude to  God  my  Heavenly  Father  and 
to  all  the  Latter-day  Saints  assembled 
here  for  the  unanimity  of  faith  and 
feeling-  which  exists  among  them,  and 
for  the  confidence  that  they  have 
shown  in  the  presiding  authorities  of 
the  Church,  and  also  in  observing  the 
laws  of  God  as  far  as  they  have  done. 
There  are  laws  which  we  do  not  observe 
as  we  should;  there  are  principles  of 
the  Gospel  which  are  perhaps  too  pure 
and  exalted  for  us  to  live  them  as  we 
should;  but  I  believe  with  all  my  heart 
— I  ea.  %  ot  consistently  believe  other- 
wise— that  we  are  growing  in  grace  and 
in  the  knowledge  of  the  truth,  and  that 
the  day  will  come,  and  I  pray  that  it 
may  be  hastened,  when  the  people  of 
God  will  not  only  be  faithful  in  keeping 
the  law  of  tithing,  but  that  they  will  be 
faithful  also  in  observing  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  which  is  a  law  of  God,  and 
that  we  will  be  faithful  in  observing 
that  most  sacred  and  most  important 
law  of  God — the  law  of  chastity,  where- 
in we  may  preserve  the  purity  of  our 
own  persons  and  the  chastity  of  our 
neighbors  and  associates  as  we  would 
preserve  our  own  lives.  I  would  to  God 
that  the  time  may  come,  and  that  it  is 
not  far  distant,  when  the  Latter-day 
Saints  will  live  up  to  the  golden  rule 
taught  by  the  Son  of  God,  (than  whom 
none  so  perfect  has  ever  sojourned  in 
the  flesh  upon  the  earth,)  to  do  unto 
others  as  we  would  have  others  do 
unto  us;  and  in  this  way  stop  all  fault- 
finding, all  bickerings,  all  jealousies,  all 
contentions,  and  all  strife,  and,  as  far 
as  practicable,  remove  every  possible 
chance  for  misunderstanding  amongst 
us,  that  we  may  see  as  we  are  seen 
and  know  as  we  are  known,  that  we 
may  be  true  men  and  women  in  the 
cause  of  Zion  and  of  human  redemp- 
tion, that  God  may  put  His  holy  name 
upon  us  and  we  bear  that  holy  name 
acceptably  before  Him.  The  object  of 
our  being  here  is  to  do  the  will  of  the 
Father  as  it  is  done  in  heaven,  to  work 
righteousness  in  the  earth,  to  subdue 
wickedness  and  put  it  under  our  feet, 


to  conquer  sin  and  the  adversary  of 
our  souls,  to  rise  above  the  imperfec- 
tions and  weaknesses  of  poor,  fallen 
humanity,  by  the  inspiration  of  Al- 
mighty God  and  His  power  made  mani- 
fest, and  thus  become  Indeed  the  Saints 
and  servants  of  the  Lord  in  the  earth. 

Let  us  sustain  the  cause  of  Zion.  Let 
no  man  speak  lightly  of  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel.  Let  no  one  treat  lightly 
the  ordinances  of  the  house  of 
God.  Let  no  one  hold  in  de- 
rision the  Priesthood  that  the  Lord  has 
restored  to  the  earth,  which  is  the  au- 
thority that  He  has  given  unto  men. 
Let  no  man  look  contemptuously  upon 
the  organization  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  as  it  has 
been  established  in  the  earth  through 
the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  whom  the  Lord  raised  up 
when  he  was  but  a  child  to  lay  the 
foundation  of  the  same.  Let  no  man 
treat  these  things  lightly  or  doubtingly; 
but  let  ever  man  seek  earnestly  to  un- 
derstand the  truth  and  teach  his  chil- 
dren to  become  familiar  with  those 
truths  of  heaven  that  have  been  re- 
stored to  the  earth  in  the  latter  day.  I 
believe  with  all  my  soul  in  God  the 
Father  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ.  I  believe  with  all  my  might, 
mind  and  strength  in  the  Savior  of 
the  world,  and  in  the  principle  of  re- 
demption from  death  and  sin.  I  believe 
in  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  I  believe  in  all  the  truth 
that  I  know,  and  I  believe  that  there 
are  many  principles  of  eternal  truth 
that  still  lie  hid  from  me  and  from  the 
understanding  of  men,  which  will  yet 
be  revealed  by  the  power  of  God  unto 
His  faithful  servants.  I  believe  that 
the  Lord  has  revealed  to  the  children 
of  men  all  that  they  know.  I  do  not 
believe  that  any  man  has  discovered 
any  principle  in  science,  or  art.;  in 
mechanism,  or  mathematics,  or  any- 
thing else,  that  God  did  not  know  be- 
fore he  did.  Man  is  indebted  to  the 
source  of  all  intelligence  and 
truth,  for  the  knowledge  that  he 
possesses;  and  all  who  will  yield 
obedience  to  the  promptings  of  the 
Spirit,  which  leads  to  virtue,  to  honor, 
to  the  love  of  God  and  man,  and  to 
the  love  of  truth  and  that  which  is  en- 
nobling and  enlarging  to  the  soul,  will 


86  GENERAL,  C< 

get  a  clearer,  a  more  expansive,  and  a 
more  direct  and  conclusive  knowledge 
of  God's  truths  than  anyone  else  can 
do.  I  tell  you  this,  because  I  know  it  is 
true.  The  Lord  Almighty  lives;  He 
made  the  heavens  and  the  earth,  and 
the  fountains  of  water;  and  we  are  His 
children,  His  offspring,  and  we  are  not 
here  by  chance.  The  Lord  designed  our 
ccming,  and  the  object  of  our  being.  He 
designs  that  we  shall  accomplish  our 
mission,  to  become  conformed  to  the 
likeness  and  image  of  Jesus  Christ, 
that,  like  Him,  we  may  be  without  sin 
unto  salvation,  like  Him  we  may  be 
filled  with  pure  intelligence,  and  like 
Him  we  may  be  exalted  to  the  right 
hand  of  the  Father,  to  sit  upon  thrones 
and  have  dominion  and  power  in  the 
sphere  in  which  we  shall.be  called  to 
act.  I  testify  to  this  doctrine,  for  the 
Lord  has  made  me  to  know  and  feel 
the  truth  of  it  from  the  crown  of  my 
head  to  the  soles  of  my  feet.  I  love 
good,  honorable  men — even  men  who 
may  be  mistaken,  as  far  as  their  judg- 
ment is  concerned,  but  who  try  to  do 
right;  I  love  them  for  the  reason  that 
they  are  my  brethren,  the  sons  of  my 
Father,  and  I  would  that  they  might  all 
see  the  truth  as  it  is  in  Christ  Jesus, 
and  accept  it,  and  receive  all  the  bene- 
fits of  it,  in  time  and  throughout  all 
eternity.  If  the  Lord  has  revealed  to 
the  world  the  plan  of  salvation  and  re- 
demption from  sin,  by  which  men  may 
be  exalted  again  into  His  presence  and 
partake  of  eternal  life  with  Him,  I  sub- 
mit, as  a  proposition  that  cannot  be 
controverted,  that  no  man  can  be  ex- 
alted into  the  presence  of  God  and  at- 
tain to  a  fulness  of  glory  and  happi- 
ness in  His  kingdom  and  presence,  save 
and  except  he  will  obey  the  plan  that 
God  has  devised  and  revealed. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  in  my 
heart  that  we  have  had  a'  time  of  re- 
joicing during  this  conference.  I  wish 
we  had  a  place  big  enough  to  hold  the 
Latter-day  Saints  at  conference.  I  do 
not  know  but  we  will  have  to  build 
some  boweries  or  something  else  on 
this  temple  block,  to  accommodate  by 
overflow  meetings  the  multitude  of  peo- 
ple who  come  to  conference  in  the  per- 
formance of  their  duty,  many  of  whom 
cannot  be  accommodated  in  this  Taber- 
nacle.   But  we  will  visit  you;  we  will 


come  to  you  who  cannot  come  to  us, 
and  we  will  carry  our  spirit  and  testi- 
mony unto  you  and  exhort  you  in  your 
homes,  if  the  Lord  will  give  us  the 
strength  to  do  it.  Provided  my  strength 
holds  out  and  my  brethren  do  not  ob- 
ject, I  propose,  the  Lord  being  willing, 
to  visit  the  Saints  a  little,  and  encour- 
age them  in  their  homes;  let  them  know 
what  we  are,  what  we  believe  in,  and 
how  much  we  love  them  for  Christ's 
sake,  that  they  may  receive  His  truth, 
and  be  exalted  by  it  and  eventually  re- 
turn into  His  presence.  We  want  to 
visit  St.  George,  and  all  the  settlements 
between.  We  want  to  visit  the  north- 
ern settlements,  as  far  as  we  possibly 
can,  and  see  you  in  your  ciies.  When 
we  come,  brethren  and  sisters,  we  hope 
that  you  will  receive  us  in  the  same 
spirit  that  we  take  to  you— the  spirit 
of  love  and  of  earnest  desire  for  your 
welfare  and  happiness  and  for  the  hap- 
piness of  all  mankind.  We  have  no  ill 
feeling  in  our  hearts  toward  any  living 
creature.  We  forgive  those  who  tres- 
pass against  us.  Those  who  have  spoken 
evil  of  us,  and  who  have  misrepresented 
us  before  the  world,  we  have  no  malice 
in  our  hearts  toward  them.  We  say,  let 
God  judge  between  them  and  us;  let 
Him  recompense  them  for  their  work. 
We  will  not  raise  a  hand  against  them; 
but  we  will  extend  the  hand  of  fellow- 
ship and  friendship  to  them,  if  they  will 
repent  of  their  sins  and  come  unto  the 
Lord  and  live.  No  matter  how  malicious 
they  may  have  been,  or  how  foolish 
they  may  have  acted,  if  they  will  repent 
of  it  we  will  receive  them  with  open 
arms,  and  we  will  do  all  we  can  to 
help  them  to  save  themselves.  I  cannot 
save  you;  you  cannot  save  me;  we  can- 
not save  each  other,  only  so  far  as  we 
can  persuade  each  other  to  receive  the 
truth,  by  teaching  it.  When  a  man 
receives  the  truth  he  will  be  saved  by 
it.  He  will  not  be  saved  merely  be- 
cause someone  taught  it  to  him,  but 
because  he  received  and  acted  upon  it. 
The  Gospel  is  consistent;  it  is  common 
sense,  reason,  revelation;  it  is  almighty 
truth  from  the  heavens  made  known  to 
man. 

The  Lord  bless  you.  We  propose  to 
do  our  duty  according  to  the  light  we 
possess,  by  the  help  of  the  loving  Fa- 
ther.   I  propose  to  do  nothing  that  I 


« 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


87 


have  not  the  most  positive  assurance  is 
right,  through  the  unanimity  of  my 
counselors,  our  seeing  eye  to  eye,  and 
our  understanding  alike  together  with 
as  many  more  of  the  leading  brethren 
as  possible.  I  do  not  propose  to  do  any- 
thing, or  suffer  anything  to  be  done  or 
sanctioned  which  will  affect  the  king- 
dom of  God  in  the  earth,  except  by 
common  consent,  or  unless  we  can  see 
eye  to  eye  upon  it,  then  I  know  we 
shall  have  strength  behind  us,  that  the 
power  of  God  will  be  with  us,  and  the 
Saints  will  uphold  and  sustain  our 
hands.  Now,  I  want  to  hear  from 
Presidents  Winder  and  Lund.  God 
bless  Israel.  May  peace  and  prosperity 
goodwill  and  holy  love  for  the  truth 
abide  with  you  and  be  multiplied  upon 
you,  is  my  earnest  prayer.  And  oh! 
my  brethren,  be  true  to  your  families, 
be  true  to  your  wives  and  children. 
Teach  them  the  way  of  life.  Do  not 
allow  them  to  get  so  far  from  you  that 
they  will  become  oblivious  to  you  or  to 
any  principle  of  honor,  purity  or  truth. 
Teach  your  children  so  that  they  can- 
not commit  sin  without  violating  their 
conscience.  Teach  them  the  truth,  that, 
they  may  not  depart  from  it.  Bring 
them  up  in  the  way  they  should  go, 
and  when  they  get  old  they  will  not 
depart  from  it.  If  you  will  keep  your 
boys  close  to  your  hearts,  within  the 
clasp  of  your  arms;  if  you  will  make 
them  to  feel  that  you  love  them, that  you 
are  their  parents  that  they  are  your 
children,  and  keep  them  near  to  you, 
they  will  not  go  very  far  from  you,  and 
they  will  not  commit  any  very  great 
sin.  But  it  is  when  you  turn  them 
out  of  the  home,  turn  them 
out  of  your  affections  —  out  into 
the  darkness  of  the  night  in- 
to the  society  of  the  depraved  or  de- 
graded; it  is  when  they  become  tire- 
some to  you,  or  you  are  tired  of  their 
innocent  noise  and  prattle  at  home,  and 
you  say,  "Go  off  somewhere  else."  It 
is  this  sort  of  treatment  of  your  child- 
ren that  drives  them  from  you,  and 
helps  to  make  criminals  and  infi'lels  of 
them.  Tou  cannot  afford  to  do  this. 
How  would  I  feel  to  enter  into  the 
kingdom  of  God — (if  such  a  thing  were 
possible) — and  see  one  of  my  children 
outside  among  the  sorcerers,  the  whore- 
mongers and  those  that  love  and  make 


a  lie,  and  that  because  I  had  neglected 
my  duty  toward  him  or  had  not  kept 
the  proper  restraint  upon  him?  Do 
you  think  I  shall  be  exalted  in  the 
kingdom  of  my  God  with  this  stain 
and  blot  upon  my  soul?  I  tell  you,  No! 
No  man  can  get  there  until  he  atones 
for  such  crime  as  this — for  it  is  a 
crime  in  the  sight  of  God  and  man  for 
a.  father  to  carelessly  or  wilfully  neglect 
his  children.  This  is  my  sentiment. 
Take  care  of  your  children.  They  are 
the  hope  of  Israel,  and  upon  them  will 
rest,  by  and  by,  the  responsibility  of 
bearing  off  the  kingdom  of  God  in  the 
earth.  The  Lord  bless  them  and  keep 
them  in  the  paths  of  righteousness,  I 
humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

Past  and  present  status  of  the  Church — Work  of 
God  spreading  wherever  It  has  reached — Au- 
thenticity of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

We  have  had  a  great  many  instruc- 
tions given  us  during  this  conference, 
and  I  believe  all  who  are  present  have 
rejoiced  in  what  they  have  heard.  When 
I  look  upon  this  vast  assemblage  I 
ask  myself,  what  would  the  Prophet 
Joseph  have  thought,  72  years  ago  to- 
day, if  he  could  have  beheld  what  we 
see — this  large  Tabernacle  filled,  the 
Assembly  Hall  full,  and  still  hundreds 
of  people  on  the  grounds?  When  they 
met  on  the  6th  of  April,  1830,  to  organ- 
ize the  Church,  it  was  accomplished 
with  six  persons,  and  there  were  not 
more  than  that  number  of  members 
of  the  Church  at  that  time.  Those  who 
met  on  that  occasion  rejoiced  in  their 
meetings;  and  experienced  a  rich  out- 
pouring of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Even  at  that  time  the  principle  enun- 
ciated by  our  President  today,  that  all 
things  should  be  done  by  common  con- 
sent, was  carried  out.  Joseph  Smith 
and  Oliver  Cowdery  had  received  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  under  the  hands  of 
John  the  Baptist.  Afterwards  they  re- 
ceived the  Melchisedek  Priesthood  un- 
der the  hands  of  Peter.James  and  John. 
This,  no  doubt,  was  in  the  summer  of 
1829.  We  do  not  know  the  exact  date, 
but  the  Prophet  Joseph  tells  us  that  the 
Lord  commanded  him  that  when  the 
Church  was  organized  he  should  ordain 
Oliver  Cowdery  an  Elder,  anft  Oliver 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Cowdery  should  ordain  him  an  Elder. 
Mind  you,  they  held  the  Melchisedek 
Priesthood,  but  the  office  of  an  Elder 
was  to  he  given  them  when  they  could 
be  sustained  by  the  Church.  Before 
they  were  ordained,  they  laid  this  mat- 
ter before  the  members  of  the  Church, 
who  sustained  them  by  their  votes; 
then  they  ordained  each  other  to  this 
office  in  the  Melchisedek  Priesthood. 
They  held  the  Melchisedek  Priesthood 
before,  but  to  be  the  presiding  Elders  of 
the  Church  they  must  have  the  consent 
of  the  members,  and  it  was  granted. 

Prom  that  little  beginning  72  years 
ago,  this  has  come  to  pass!  Thousands 
have  heard  the  name  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph.  In  Europe,  on  the  islands  of 
the  sea,  in  America,  and  in  Asia,  mes- 
sengers bearing  glad  tidings, 
are  proclaiming  that  God  has  revealed 
Himself,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
His  prophet.  Many  who  hear  their  tes- 
timonies believe  and  join  the  Church, 
while  many  others  have  not  the  moral 
courage  to  do  so.  We  feel  encouraged 
to  look  back  on  the  work  of  last  year. 
Wherever  the  Elders  have  gone  suc- 
cess has  attended  their  labors.  In  Eng- 
land they  have  baptized  more  this  last 
year  than  they  have  done  for  a  number 
of  years  before.  We  thought  that  the 
work  was  nearly  done  there,  but  still 
the  Elders  have  been  baptizing  hun- 
dreds in  that  land.  In  Germany  there 
are  good  prospects.  The  Elders  there 
are  laboring  faithfully  and  gaining  the 
ears  of  the  people.  This  morning  I 
read  an  account  of  a  Sunday  school  at 
Koeningsburg,  in  East  Prussia,  very 
close  to  the  Russian  empire.  The  school 
is  composed  of  children  of  Saints  and 
of  outsiders;  in  fact,  four-fifths  do  not 
belong  to  our  Church.  These  children 
go  to  the  school,  and  sing  our  songs. 
They  sing  them,  too,  in  their  homes; 
and  other  children  are  falling  in  love 
with  the  songs  of  Zion.  It  has  been 
said,  "If  I  can  have  the  making  of 
the  songs  of  a  nation,  I  will  mold  the 
sentiment  of  that  nation."  If  we  can 
get  the  people  to  sing  the  songs  of 
Zion,  the  Spirit  will  go  with  them,  and 
it  will  draw  the  hearts  of  the  people 
to  us.  In  other  places  likewise  they 
have  had  success  in  the  Sunday  school 
movement,  and  also  in  preaching.  In 
Saxony — a  place  where  the  cradle  of 


the  Reformation  stood — we  have  had 
the  most  success  as  a  conference;  over 
100  were  baptized  there  last  year.  In 
the  Netherlands  our  Elders  have  had 
more  baptisms  to  the  Elder  than  in 
any  other  mission  in  Europe.  In  Scan- 
dinavia the  work  is  progressing  as  us- 
ual. The  members  of  the  Church  are 
trying  to  build  a  meeting  house  at  the 
capital  of  Denmark,  which  I  hope  they 
will  finish  this  summer,  so  that  our 
good  Copenhagen  Saints  may  have  a 
suitable  house  of  worship  to  which  they 
can  invite  their  friends  and  be  proud 
to  take  them.  On  the  islands  of  the 
sea  the  Gospel  is  also  spreading. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  has  been  trans- 
lated intoTahitian  and  Samoan,and  it  is 
already  printed  in  the  Maori  and  Haw- 
aiian. Tou  have  heard  the  good  report 
from  Apostle  Grant  concerning  Japan. 
There  a  Shinto  priest  has  joined  the 
Church.  In  Turkey  a  leading  Moham- 
medan has  been  baptized — something 
very  unusual.  When  the  Lord  begins 
the  great  work  of  touching  these  na- 
tions, many  will  accept  the  truth.  His 
work  will  grow  in  the  earth.  He  has 
commenced  it,  and  He  will  see  that  it 
is  carried  forward  triumphantly.  The 
Book  of  Mormon  has  also  been  trans- 
lated into  the  Turkish  language,  by 
Brother  Hintze.  Gradually  the  word 
of  the  Lord  contained  in  that  book 
will  be  translated  into  the  leading  lan- 
guages of  the  earth,  so  that  all  men 
can  read  it.  The  external  and  inte-rnal 
evidences  in  favor  of  it  are  many.  Any 
one  who  will  read  the  Book  of  Mormon 
with  a  prayerful  heart  will  feel  that  he 
is  reading  what  has  been  written  un- 
der the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
Men  have  doubted  the  origin  of  it;  they 
knew  that  Joseph  Smith  could  not 
write  it,  and  have  therefore  tried  to 
give  the  honor  to  others.  The  theory 
that  Spaulding  was  the  author  of  it 
has  been  exploded  by  the  discovery  of 
the  Spaulding  manuscript,  though  I 
hear  that  the  argument  is  being  put 
forth  now.  "Who  knows  but  he  wrote 
some  other  manuscript,  if  that  which 
has  been  found  and  given  to  the  world 
is  not  the  origin  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon?" If  such  arguments  as  that  may 
be  used,  when  can  anything  be  refuted  ? 
Others  have  said  that  Sidney  Rigdon 
was  the  writer.    Sidney  Rigdon  did  not 


PRESIDENT  JOHN  R.  WINDER. 


8* 


see  the  book  till  it  was  printed  and  de- 
livered to  him  by  Parley  Pratt  and 
others  who  visited  him.  Anyone  who 
will  read  what  Sidney  Rigdon  has  writ- 
ten may  know  that  Sidney  Rigdon  was 
not  the  author  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
His  style  was  totally  unlike  the  style 
of  that  book.  The  style  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon  is  plain  and  simple.  Sidney 
Rigdon's  style  was  diffuse  and  labored, 
often  lacking  in  clearness.  He  was  a 
great  preacher,  and  when  he  was  moved 
upon  by  the  Spirit  he  could  enthuse  his 
hearers;  but  he  could  not  have  written 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  Who  that  has  seen 
a  man's  handwriting  and  become  fa- 
miliar with  it,  that  cannot  tell  it  when 
he  sees  it  again?  Men  show  their  in- 
dividuality in  their  writing,  and  one 
does  not  write  like  another.  If  you 
have  studied  style,  you  will  readily  see 
that  Sidney  Rigdon  is  not  the  author 
of  that  book. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  did  not  pretend 
to  be  a  writer;  still  he  had  a  clear  and 
forcible  style.  When  I  read  his  little 
daybook  from  1832  to  1834,  I  am  struck 
with  his  ability  to  express  his  thoughts. 

Notwithstanding  all  that  the  Lord 
had  done  for  him  he  was  a  humble  man. 
Yet  he  was  by  nature  an  able  man, 
and  when  the  Lord  endowed  him  with 
the  Holy  Spirit  and  gave  him  revela- 
tions from  on  high,  he  became  a  great 
man — the  one  chosen  to  usher  in  the 
dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times, 
and  by  the  help  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
he  laid  the  foundation  broad  and  wide. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  do  our  du- 
ty in  helping  to  carry  on  this  work. 
Tou  have  received  a  testimony  of  the 
truth;  let  it  continue  to  burn  in  your 
hearts.  Do  not  feel  to  stop  your  work 
or  to  lag  in  your  diligence;  but  continue 
zealous  for  the  cause.  Remember  what 
you  have  received,  and  how  the  Lord 
has  blessed  you  in  giving  you  the  truth, 
and  remember  the  duty  that  rests  upon 
you  to  make  it  known  unto  others. 
How  thankful  I  am  when  I  see  the  re- 
sponse our  brethren  give  to  the  calls  to 
go  upon  missions!  Daily  we  receive 
their  letters,  and  generally  they  contain 
these  words:  "We  are  ready  to  go." 
We  commend  the  brethren  for  this 
readiness,  and  hope  that  in  all  other 
duties  devolving  upon  them  they  wffl 
show     the     same     readiness.  God 


bless  you,  and  help  us  to  serve 
Him,  to  do  our  duty  while  op- 
portunity is  given  us,  that  at  last  we 
may  be  saved,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT   JOHN  R.  WINDER 

Importan  je  of  Temple  work— Vicarious  labor  for 
the  dead — Resp  risibility  attached  to  this  duty. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  there  is  one 
principle  connected  with  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  that  has  a  very  warm 
place  in  my  heart,  and  that  is,  our 
temple  work.  It  was  referred  to  yes- 
terday by  Apostle  Merrill.  I  desire  to 
emphasize  the  remarks  made  by  Broth- 
er Merrill  concerning  this,  and  I  know 
no  better  way  to  do  it  than  to  read  a 
few  remarks  made  by  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith  in  relation  to  this  princi- 
ple. We  find  in  section  128  of  the  Book 
of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  an  address 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints  by  the  Proph- 
et.   He  starts  out  thus: 

\ 

"I  now  resume  the  subject  of  the 
baptism  for  the  dead,  as  that  subject 
seems  to  occupy  my  mind,  and  press 
itself  upon  my  feelings  the  strongest, 
since  I  have  been  pursued  by, my  ene- 
mies." 

In  the  15th  paragraph  of  the  same 
address,  we  find  the  following: 

'And  now,  my  dearly  beloved  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  let  me  assure  you  that 
these  are  principles  in  relation  to  the 
dead,  and  the  living,  that  cannot  be 
lightly  passed  over,  as  pertaining  to 
our  salvation.  For  their  salvation  is 
necessary,  and  essential  to  our  salva- 
tion, as  Paul  says  concerning  the  fath- 
ers, 'that  they  without  us  cannot  be 
made  perfect;'  neither  can  we  without 
our  dead  be  made  perfect." 

V 

This  address  was  given  in  April,  1842, 
not  very  long  previous  to  his  martyr- 
dom. Again,  in  April,  1844,  he  preach- 
ed a  sermon  at  the  funeral  of  King  Fol- 
let,  and  in  that  sermon  the  following 
appears: 

"The  greatest  responsibility  in  this 
world  that  God  has  laid  upon  us  is  to 
seek  after  our  dead.  The  Apostle  says, 
'They  without  us  cannot  be  made  per- 
fect;' for  it  is  necessary  that  the  seal- 
ing power  should  be  in  our  hands,  to- 
seal  our  children  and  our  dead,  for 
the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times. 
It  is  necessary  that  those  who  have 
gone  before  and  those  who  come  after, 
should  have  salvation,  in  common  with 
us;  and  thus  hath  God  made  it  obliga- 


■90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


tory  upon  man.  Hence,  God  said,  'I 
will  send  Elijah  the  prophet,  and  he 
shall  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to 
the  children,'  etc.  I  have  a  declaration 
to  make  of  the  provisions  which  God 
hath  made  to  suit  the  conditions  of 
iran,  made  before  the  foundations  of 
the  world.  He  made  a  provision  that 
every  spirit  in  the  eternal  worlds  can 
be  ferreted  out  and  saved.  He  has 
wrought  out  salvation  for  all  men,  un- 
less they  have  committed  the  sin 
against  the  Holy  Ghost,  and 
every  man  who  has  a  friend 
in  -the  eternal  worlds  can  save 
him,  unless  he  has  committed  the  un- 
pardonable sin.  And  now  you  can  see 
how  far  he  can  become  a  savior." 

Again,  in  the  Prophet's  last  ser- 
mon but  one,  delivered  on  the 
12th  of  May,  1844,  just  about  one  month 
previous  to  his  martyrdom  he  said: 

"It  is  not  only  necessary  that  you 
should  be  baptized  for  your  dead,  but 
you  will  have  to  go  through  all  the  or- 
dinances for  them,  the  same  as  you 
have  gone  through  to  save  yourselves. 
There  will  be  144,000  saviors  upon 
Mount  Zion,  and  with  them  an  innum- 
erable host  that  no  man  can  number. 
Every  man  who  has  been  baptized  and 
belongs  to  the  kingdom  has  a  right  to 
be  baptized  for  those  who  have  gone 
before." 

This  is  the  point  that  I  want  to  call 
your  attention  to  particularly: 

"And  as  soon  as  the  law  of  the  Gos- 
pel is  obeyed  here  by  their  friends  who 
act  as  proxy  for  them,  the  Lord  has 
administrators  there  to  set  them  free." 

I  could  think  of  no  better  way,  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  to  emphasize  the  re- 
marks made  by  Brother  Merrill  yes- 
terday in  relation  to  this  subject  than 
to  read  to  you  these  few  words  from 
the  Prophet  of  God.  We  have  spent 
millions  of  dollars  in  building  temples 
and  preparing  for  this  work.  The  doors 
are  open  to  all  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
male  and  female,  provided  always  that 
they  are  worthy  and  can  receive  recom- 
mends from  their  Bishops  and  Presi- 
dents of  Stakes.  "While  a  great  deal  of 
work  has  been  done  already,  at  the 
same  time  a  great  deal  more  might  be 
done,  with  the  same  expense  that  we 
are  under  now.  All  of  the  temples  are 
•open,  but  they  are  not  all  the  time  filled. 
It  is  true,  our  temple  here  is  pretty 
well  patronized.  I  could  name  a  few 
individuals  who  have  done  a  grand 
work  in  this  direction.    I  have  in  my 


mind  now  one  dear  old  German  lady, 
who  commenced  work  in  this  temple 
soon  after  it  was  dedicated.  She  spent 
her  means,  obtained  assistance,  and  had 
work  done  for  1,800  persons — her  rela- 
tives and  friends.  The  last  time  she 
was  there  she  came  to  me  and  said, 
"Nov/,  I  have  finished  my  work,  and  I 
would  like  to  put  my  record  in  the 
archives  of  the  temple."  In  a  very  short 
time — only  a  few  weeks — she  passed 
away  to  the  other  side.  What  a  glori- 
ous time  she  would  have  with  those 
1,800  persons  that  she  had  released  from 
prison!  How  many  are  there  of  you 
in  this  congregation  that  have  relatives 
and  friends  on  the  other  side  waiting 
for  you  to  do  the  work  for  them  ?  Take 
this  matter  into  consideration,  and  try 
to  make  an  effort  to  carry  on  the  work 
and  to  release  those  who  are  waiting 
for  you.  Since  the  dedication  of  this 
temple  there  have  been  685,966  ordin- 
ances performed  in  it;  and  in  all  the 
temples  there  have  been  2,409,128  ordin- 
ances performed.  When  I  reflect  on 
this,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  in- 
clined to  think  that  there  is  a  large 
congregation  on  the  other  side.  Many 
of  our  Prophets  and  Apostles  have  gone 
there,  and  I  have  read  to  you  that  there 
is  an  organization  there,  so  that  as 
soon  as  the  ordinances  are  performed 
here  the  parties  are  informed  of  it.  I 
believe  it,  brethren  and  sisters,  and 
that  there  is  a  host  there. 

Now,  you  have  kindly  voted  to  sus- 
tain me  as  a  counselor  to  the  President. 
I  wish  to  tell  you  that  the  aim  and  ob- 
ject of  my  life  from  this  time  on  will 
be  to  stand  up  and  sustain  my  Presi- 
dent. As  the  Lord  will  give  me 
strength  and  ability,  I  propose  to  do 
that  thing.  I  pray  that  the  blessing  of 
the  Lord  may  attend  His  people.  God 
bless  you  all,  brethren  and  sisters,  and 
may  we  be  faithful  and  true  to  our 
covenants,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  P.  SMITH. 

I  hope  that  the  congregation  will  be 
patient  just  a  few  moments  more.  We 
have  a  little  matter  of  business  to 
bring  before  the  conference  by  way  of 
a  notice  for  action  in  the  future,  prob- 
ably at  the  next  October  conference. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


91 


The  Latter-day  Saints  generally  are 
familiar  with  the  book  called  the  Pearl 
of  Great  Price.  The  old  edition  of  it 
has  been  accepted  by  the  Church  as  an 
authentic  doctrinal  work.  It  has  now 
been  re-published,  with  some  improve- 
ments. It  has  been  divided  into  chap- 
ters and  verses,  with  references  on  the 
bottom  of  the  pages.  This  has  been 
done,  under  the  sanction  of  the  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church,  by  Elder  James 
E.  Talmage.  We  have  eliminated  from 
the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  those  revela- 
tions it  formerly  contained  which  are 
to  be  found,  and  always  were,  in  the 
Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  be- 
lieving that  it  was  unnecessary  to  pub- 
lish revelations  in  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price  that  were  included  in  the  Book 
•of  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  These 
changes  have  been  made  in  the  book, 


and  it  is  now  ready  for  the  use  of  those 
who  desire  to  obtain  it;  and  at  the  com- 
ing October  conference  the  book  will 
be  presented  to  the  conference  for  their 
acceptance  in  its  revised  and  changed 
form. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 
Hosanna. 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Patriarch  John  Smith. 
Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 

Note: — The  attendance  at  this  confer- 
ence, throughout,  was  larger  than  on 
any  other  similar  occasion  in  the  his- 
tory of  the  Church. 

The  stenographic  work,  in  taking  a 
full  account  of  the  proceedings,  was 
done  by  Arthur  Winter. 

JOHN  NICHOLSON, 
Clerk  of  Conference. 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 

Annual  General  Conference. 


At  the  conference  of  the  Deseret 
Sunday  School  Union,  held  in  the 
Tabernacle,  Sunday  evening,  April  6th, 
there  were  present  of  the  general  super- 
intendency:  Joseph  F.  Smith,  George 
Reynolds  and  Joseph  M.  Tanner,  near- 
ly all  the  members  of  the  Sunday 
School  Union  board,  the  stake  author- 
ities then  in  the  city,  and  the  largest 
attendance  of  Sunday  school  workers 
ever  gathered.  All  of  fifty  stakes  of 
Zion  were  represented  except  Alberta, 
Bingham,  Big  Horn,  Maricopa,  St. 
Joseph,  San  Luis,  St.  Johns,  Snowfiake 
and  Teton. 

The  meeting  was  presided  over  by 
General  Superintendent  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  and  commenced  by  the  choir 
singing  the  hymn,  "High  on  the  moun- 
tain top."  Opening  prayer  was  of- 
fered by  Elder  John  B.  Maiben  of  Man- 
ti.  This  was  followed  by  the  hymn, 
"Zion  stands  with  hills  surrounded." 

Following  the  calling  of  the  roll  sec- 
retary George  D.  Pyper  read  the  1901 
annual  statistical  and  financial  report 
of  the  Sunday  schools  throughout  the 
Church,  which  gives  the  following  grat- 
ifying showing: 

Number  of  Sunday  schools  in  the  or- 
ganized stakes  of  Zion,  716 — an  increase 
of  37  over  the  report  of  1900. 

Number  of  schools  in  missions,  339,  an 
increase  of  38.  Total  schools  through- 
out the  Church,  1,055 — an  increase  of 
75  schools. 

Number  of  officers  and  teachers  in  or- 
ganized stakes,  13,576 — increase,  1,102; 
In  missions,  1,622 — increase  39.  Total 
officers  and  teachers,  15,198 — an  increase 
of  1,141. 

Number  of  pupils  in  the  organized 
stakes,  50,992  males,  53,413  females. 
Total,  104,405.    Increase,  4,077. 


Number  of  pupils  in  mission  schools, 
4,335  males,  5,185  females.  Total,  9,520. 
Increase,  773. 

Total  pupils,  55,327  males,  58,598  fe- 
males.   Total,  113,925.    Increase,  4,850. 

The  report  shows  that  there  are  3,271 
more  girls  than  boys  in  the  Sunday 
schools. 

Number  of  Sunday  school  officers  and 
missionaries  not  on  the  ward  rolls:  In 
organized  stakes,  338;  in  missions,  121: 
total,  509;  an  increase  of  157. 

Total  of  officers,  teachers,  Sunday 
school  missionaries  and  pupils:  In  or- 
organized  stakes,  38;  in  mission,  121; 
263.  Grand  total  of  129,632,  and  a  total 
increase  over  1900  of  6,148. 

The  report  also  shows  for  1900  an 
average  attendance  of  69,474,  and  for 
1901,  75,683,  an  increase  of  nearly  nine 
per  cent. 

The  Sunday  schools  have  collected 
$23,182.81,  and  expended,  $18,423.21, 
having  a  balance  on  hand  of  $4,759.60. 

Out  of  118,369  officers,  teachers,  and 
pupils,  the  report  shows  that  87  per 
cent,  or  102,881  keep  the  "Word  of  Wis- 
dom. 

The  general  authorities  of  the  Sun- 
day schools  were  presented  and  unani- 
mously sustained. 

RPJMARKS  OF  APOSTLE  HEBER  J. 
GRANT. 

Our  Sunday  school  interests  are  not 
very  extensive  in  Japan,  as  yet.  I  will 
simply  say  that  we  live  in  hopes  of  hav- 
ing, in  the  providence  of  the  Lord,  Sab- 
bath schools  in  that  empire,  by  the 
time  the  next  conference  is  held. 

I  have  always  enjoyed  my  labors  in 
the  Sabbath  school  and  the  Mutual  Im- 
provement Association,  and  I  rejoice  in 


DESBRBT  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


93 


the  -wonderful  growth  of  the  Sunday 
School  interest  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  in  the  remarkable  advance- 
ment that  has  been  made.  I  feel  that 
there  is  nothing  in  which  we  can  take 
more  pride  and  satisfaction  than  the 
increased  knowledge,  as  to  the  princi- 
ples of  the  Gospel,  and  the  plan  of  life 
and  salvation,  that  our  children  have 
today,  in  comparison  with  what  many 
of  us  had  when  we  were  children. 

I  remember  that,  when  I  was  made 
the  president  of  the  Tooele  stake  of 
Zion,  I  had  never  had  any  experience 
whatever. in  public  speaking;  never  had 
I  spoken  ten  minutes  at  any  one  time, 
and  I  was  then  nearly  24  years  of  age. 
I  imagine  now,  with  our  Church 
schools,  religion  classes,  Sabbath 
schools  and  Mutual  Improvement  Asso- 
ciations, that  it  would  be  a  very  dim- 
cult  matter  to  find,  among  the  intelli- 
gent young  men  and  women  that  have 
attended  these  institutions,  one  who 
could  not  stand  up  and  speak  intelli- 
gently.for  fifteen  minutes  or  a  half  hour 
on  the  principles  of  the  Gospel.  I  re- 
joice when  I  realize  that  this  is  the 
case,  and  that  there  has  been  such 
an  advancement  among  our  children  in 
the  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  and  their 
ability  to  explain  the  same  and  to 
give  a  reason  for  the  hope  that  is 
within  them. 

I  remember  being  selected  as  one  of 
the  officers  of  the  first  Mutual  Improve- 
ment Association  that  was  organized 
under  the  direction  of  our  late  Presi- 
dent Brigham  Young,  and,  as  I  con'em- 
plate  the  growth  of  the  Sabbath 
schools.  Mutual  Improvement  Asocia- 
tions  and  Church  schools,  my  heart  is 
filled  with  gratitude  and  thanksgiving 
to  my  heavenly  Father. 

I  realize  that  the  destiny  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  is  very  great.  I  realize 
that  the  prophecies  that  have  been 
made  with  reference  to  this  people  will 
ail  have  to  be  fulfilled;  that  the  little 
stone  cut  from  the  mountain  without 
hands  is  to  roll  forth  and  fill  the  whole 
earth.  I  realize  that  it  will  be  neces- 
sary that  our  children  be  fitted,  quali- 
fied and  prepared  by  education  by 
study,  and  also  by  faith  in  God,  our 
heavenly  Father,  and  in  His  Son  Jesus 
Christ,  if  they  successfully  fulfill  their 
■destiny.     That  the  Saints  will   fu  fill 


their  destiny,  that  they  will  accomplish 
all  that  God  desires  them  to  accom- 
plish, I  have  no  doubt.  Whether  we, 
as  individuals,  shall  do  all  that  is  pos- 
sible for  us  to  do  is  a  personal  matter. 
I  have  often  said  in  my  remarks  to 
the  Saints,  that  each  and  every  one 
of  us  are  the  architects  of  our  own 
lives;  that  God  will  bless  us  in  propor- 
tion to  our  faithfulness  and  diligence.  I 
rejoice  in  the  statement  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  that  there  is  a  law  irre- 
vocably decreed  in  heaven,  which  was 
decreed  before  the  foundation  of  this 
world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  pre- 
dicted. He  says  that  if  we  receive  any 
blessing,  it  is  by  obedience  to  the  law 
upon  which  it  is  predicated.  Our  child- 
ren today  in  the  Sabbath  schools,  the 
Mutual  Improvement  Associations  and 
Church  schools  are  fulfilling  the  law 
whereby  they  are  entitled  to  have  abil- 
ity and  knowledge  and  capacity  to  pro- 
claim the  Gospel  and  to  give  a  reason 
for  the  hope  that  is  within  them.  God 
will  bestow  the  blessing  if  we  will  do 
our  part,  for  He  will  not  fail  to  do  His. 
He  has  said  that  if  we  keep  His  laws 
and  commandments  that  He  is  then 
bound  to  bestow  the  blessing. 

I  rejoice  in  the  growth  of  the  Sab- 
bath school  work.  I  remember  that  the 
first  trip  that  I  took,  after  being  called 
as  one  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  was  to 
the  Stakes  of  Colorado,  San  Juan  and 
to  Arizona.  I  went  with  Apostle  Brig- 
ham  Young.  I  remember  thinking  that 
he  was  an  aged  man;  but  I  am  as  old 
now  as  he  was  then,  lacking  but  a  few 
months,  and  I  well  remember  hearing 
him  say  that  he  was  only  a  boy  in  the 
Gospel,  and  it  sounded  strange  to  me; 
but  I  feel  that  I  am  very  young  yet 
in  the  Gospel.  I  remember  while  on 
that  trip,  that  I  bought  a  North  Am- 
erican Review,  while  on  the  train,  and 
read  an  article  on  Sabbath  schools, 
(written  by  a  man  that  had  been  en- 
gaged in  the  Sabbath  school  work  in 
New  York  City  for  many  years,)  be- 
wailing the  condition  of  affairs  in  that 
great  city.  He  said  fifteen  hundred  high 
class  Christians  attending  one  fine  big 
church  in  that  city  could  not  muster 
one  hundred  children.  He  said  the  only 
way  that  they  could  make  a  respectable 
showing  at  all,  a  showing  that  was  not 
a  disgrace  to  them,  was  to  go  out  into 


94 


DESBRET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


the  slums  and  hire  children  to  attend 
their  Sunday  school.  When  I  realize 
that  there  are  over  130,000  engaged  in 
the  Sabbath  school  work  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  that  there  are  over  100,000 
Sabbath  school  children,  and  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  only  number  about 
400,000,  including  these  100,000  children, 
then  it  is  that  I  realize  that  we,  as  a 
people,  are  fulfilling  the  first  great 
commandment  that  God  gave  to  our 
father  Adam  and  mother  Eve,  to  mul- 
tiply and  replenish  the  earth.  We  are 
not  drying  up  the  fountains  of  life,  but 
are  keeping  that  great  commandment, 
and,  therefore,  we  are  fulfilling  the 
law  that  was  irrevocably  decreed, 
whereby  we  shall  become  great  and 
mighty.    God  bless  you.  Amen. 

A  quartet,  "Refuge,"  was  sung  by 
Elders  Pyper,  Whitney,  Patrick  and 
Spencer. 

ELDER  JOS.  W.  SUMMERHAYS. 

We  have  established  in  this  city  a 
Sunday  school  that  is  known  as  the 
University  Sunday  school.  We  secured 
accommodations  for  the  school  in  the 
Latter-day  Saints'  University  .  The 
school,  however,  is  open  to  all  those 
who  come  into  our  city  to  attend  our 
institutions  of  learning,  who  do  not  be- 
long, directly  to  the  ward  in  which 
they  reside  while  in  Salt  Lake  City.  We 
are  informed  that  there  are  a  few  who 
are  now  attending  our  institutions  of 
learning  that  do  not  attend  this  Sunday 
school.  We  ask  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  when  you  go  home,  to  see  the 
parents  of  those  attending  schools  in 
this  city,  and  ask  them  to  write  to  their 
children  requesting  them  to  attend  the 
Sunday  school  and  the  university;  and 
if  these  parents  will  also  address  a  let- 
ter to  Supt.  Milton  Bennion,  he  will  see 
that  they  are  visited  and  labored  with 
and  that  an  effort  is  made  to  get  them 
to  attend  the  University  Sunday 
school.  Of  course,  it  is  intended  that 
those  who  attend  school  at  the  State 
University  and  other  institutions, 
whether  they  are  of  our  faith  or  not, 
shall  be  made'  perfectly  welcome.  We 
shall  be  glad  to  have  them  come,  and 
feel  certain  that  they  will  be  benefited 
by  so  doing. 

Some  time  ago  a  Sunday  School  His- 


tory was  issued.  It  contained  an  ac- 
count of  the  doings  of  our  Sunday 
schools  for  the  first  fifty  years  of  their 
existence  in  these  valleys.  It  was  pro- 
posed as  we  had  a  number  on  hand  that 
these  histories  be  sent  around  to  the 
different  stakes  pro  rata,  and  that  they 
should  pay  for  them.  All  the  stakes 
have  now  received  their  quota  but 
two.  We  have  still  outstanding  on  this 
account  about  $1,300,  and  we  would  like 
to  have  the  stake  superintendents  see 
to  it,  when  they  return  to  their  homes, 
that  these  accounts  are  settled  and  the 
proceeds  forwarded  to  our  office. 

We  are  distributing  to  the  Sunday 
schools,  this  season,  last  years'  volume 
of  the  Juvenile  Instructor.  This,  of 
course,  is  free.  Most  of  the  stakes 
have  received  their  portion  of  these 
volumes  but  we  have  learned  that  there 
are  one  or  two  stakes  that  have  not 
distributed  them  to  ■'"  their  respective 
schools.  Now,  brethren,  we  would  like 
to  have  them  distributed  to  the  schools. 
They  are  bound,  as  you  are  aware,  and 
we  want  the  schools  to  have  the  benefit 
of  them,  as  there  are  many  things  in 
them  that  will  be  of  advantage  to  the 
schools.  We  would  like  to  have  the  su- 
perintendents of  those  stakes  who 
have  not  yet  received  these  books  call 
on  our  business  manager,  Brother  T. 
C.  Griggs,  and  get  them,  or  make  ar- 
rangements for  their  delivery. 

The  Sunday  School  Treatise,  as  you 
are  no  doubt  aware,  recommends  that, 
in  opening  the  schools  on  Sunday  morn- 
ing, you  have  roll-call,  singing,  prayer, 
then  singing  again,  after  which  the 
minutes  are  to  be  read.  Application  has 
been  made  to  the  Board  to  change  this, 
on  the  ground  that  the  Sacrament  can 
be  more  properly  administered  after 
the  singing  of  an  appropriate  hymn 
than  immediately  following  the  reading 
of  the  minutes  or  the  giving  out  of  no- 
tices. Some  of  the  superintendents  feel 
that  it  would  be  better,  after  the  morn- 
ing prayer,  to  give  out  the  notices  and 
read  the  minutes,  and  then,  after  sing- 
ing again,  to  administer  the  Sacrament. 
Now,  the  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 
Board  has  ho  objection  to  this  change, 
where  desired  by  any  of  the  schools. 

Some'  of  the  Stake  Sunday  School  au- 
thorities have  sent  to  the  Union  Board, 
for  literature,  stating  that  they  would 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL,  UNION. 


95 


see  that  it  was  paid  for.  The  literature, 
has  been  sent,  and  some  of  the  stakes 
are  still  owing  considerable  for  the 
same.  We  need  money  badly  just  at 
present,  and  would  be  glad  if  you  would 
close  up  these  accounts.  Let  us  have 
the  means  that  you  have  in  your  hands, 
and  then  sell  what  literature  you  have 
left  on  hand  and  remit  to  us  for  that 
also. 

We  have  been  trying,  as  a  Sunday 
School  Union  Board,  to  introduce  into 
our  schools  better  methods,  and  to  get, 
if  possible,  teachers  that  have  had  more 
training.  Now  some  have  imbibed  the 
idea  that  no  one  should  teach  in  the 
Sunday  School  that  is  not  a  graduate 
from  an  institution  of  learning.  We 
want  to  correct  this. 

Thirty  years  ago,  next  October,  the 
first  Sunday  School  statistical  report 
was  sent  in  to  the  Sunday  School  au- 
thorities. We  then  numbered,  all  told, 
14,007  souls,  if  my  memory  serves  me 
correctly.  You  have  heard,  this  even- 
ing, that  we  have  in  the  fifty  organized 
stakes  of  Zion,  seven  hundred  and  six- 
teen Sunday  Schools.  Several  of  these 
schools  number  hundreds  of  pupils. 
One,  at  least,  numbers  nearly  1,200. 
Some  of  them  have  a  membership  of 
over  six  hundred,  and  many  have  five 
hundred.  The  work  is  growing  very 
fast.  People  who  do  not  travel  through 
the  stakes  of  Zion  cannot  understand 
how  we  are  increasing;  but,  perhaps, 
you  will  be  able  to  form  some  idea  of 
the  scope  of  country  these  seven  hun- 
dred and  sixteen  schools  cover  when  I 
tell  you  that  the  distance  from  the 
farthest  Sunday  School  in  the  North  to 
the  farthest  in  the  South  is  nearly  as 
great  as  that  from  Salt  Lake  City  to 
Buffalo,  New  York.  We  are  spreading 
out;  we  are  increasing  in  a  wonderful 
manner,  but  not  as  fast  as  we  might. 
There  is  one  reason  why  we  are  not  in- 
creasing as  fast  as  we  might;  I  do 
not  want  to  say  much  about  it,  but  I 
want  to  give  it  as  my  opinion,  that  if 
some  of  our  young  men  would  marry, 
we  would  increase  a  little  faster.  It 
has  been  my  privilege  to  travel  among 
some  of  the  missions,  and  I  find  that 
about  seventy-five  per  cent  of  the  mis- 
sionaries are  not  married;  but  most  of 
them  ought  to  be.  There  is  something 
else  I  want  to  tell  you:   In  the  fifty  or- 


ganized stakes  of  Zion  there  are  some 
wards  that  have  over  sixty  marriage- 
able young  women  that  have  no  chance 
to  marry  because  the  young  men  are 
not  willing.  This  is  all  wrong,  and  it  is 
not  a  healthy  condition.  I  would  like 
to  say  to  every  young  man  that  can 
marry,  it  is  your  privilege  to  get  mar- 
ried, and  give  the  girls  a  chance  to  get 
married  also.  In  one  of  these  wards  I 
spoke  to  a  young  woman  who  is  over 
thirty-two  years  of  age,  and  asked  her 
why  she  did  not  marry.  Her  reply  was, 
"If  you  will  send  in  some  good  Latter- 
day  Saint  young  men,  there  will 
be  no  trouble  about  the  young 
women  marrying."  There  is  another 
reason  why  our  Sunday  schools  are  not 
increasing  as  fast  as  they  might.  Quite 
a  proportion  of  our  Sunday  school  pop- 
ulation are  not  identified  with  us  yet. 
Most  of  these  are  boys,  and  we  should 
look  after  those  who  are  not  in  the 
Sunday  school  and  take  a  deep  interest 
in  their  welfare. 

To  go  back  to  my  subject  again,  I 
want  to  say  that  the  increase  in  our 
Sunday  schools  during  these  last  30 
years  has  not  been  brought  about  by 
college-bred  men;  therefore,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  those  of  you  who  have 
not  graduated  from  some  institution  of 
learning  need  not  be  discouraged.  In 
saying  this,  do  not  think  for  a  moment 
that  we  do  not  uphold  education.  We 
want  everybody  educated;  but  it  is 
wrong  to  think  that  a  person  cannot 
teach  in  a  Sunday  school  except  he  has 
a  first  class  education.  What  is  wanted 
in  every  Sunday  school  teacher  is  a 
testimony  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and 
a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  and- a  love 
for  God's  work,  coupled  with  the  ability 
to  impart  that  knowledge  and  infuse 
that  love  in  others. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  the  Sunday  school 
interests,  and  to  bless  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  so  that,  from  the  far  north 
to  the  far  south  we  shall  keep  spread- 
ing out  and  organizing  new  Sunday 
schools,  and  keep  making  Latter-day 
Saints  of  our  boys  and  girls,  that  they 
may  become  men  and  women  after 
God's  own  heart.  I  ask  it  in  the  name, 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Elder  George  Hamlin  recited  a  beau- 
tiful little  poem,  entitled,  "The  Com- 
batant." 


«6 


DESBRET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


ASST.  SUPT.  JOS.  M.  TANNER. 

It  must  have  been  very  gratifying  to- 
night to  all  present,  when  Secretary 
Pyper  read  the  report  of  our  Sunday 
schools.  There  has  been  indeed  a  very 
remarkable  increase.  You  will  notice 
that  the  increase  is  largely  in  the  num- 
ber of  teachers,  and  I  am  pleased  to 
say  that  our  Sabbath  schools  now  have 
enlisted  in  their  work  some  of  the  best 
and  most  devoted  talent  in  the  Church. 
Many  of  our  young  men  and  young  wo- 
men, who  have  taken  time  and  means 
to  educate  themselves,  are  today  loyally 
■supporting,  by  their  aid  and  instruction, 
the  great  Sabbath  school  work.  This 
increase  in  the  number  of  our  young 
people  in  the  schools,  in  my  judgment, 
is  not  the  most  important  report  that 
we  have  to  make  to  you  tonight.  Those 
who  are  familiar  with  the  work  gen- 
erally of  the  Sunday  schools  through- 
out the  Church,  know  very  well  that 
there  has  been  a  very  wonderful  im- 
provement in  the  character  of  the  in- 
structions given;  that  greater  skill  and 
better  methods  have  been  brought  into 
our  Sunday  schools,  and,  in  very  many 
instances,  they  have  been  quite  revo- 
lutionized. 

It  is  also  gratifying  to  note,  this  eve- 
ning, that  we  have  in  this  work  the 
co-operation  and  sympathy  of  the  pre- 
siding authorities;  the  presidents  of  the 
Stakes  and  Bishops  are  proud  of  their 
schools;  they  are  enthusiastic  regard- 
ing every  improvement  that  is  made, 
and,  altogether,  we  have  great  occasion 
for  rejoicing  tonight. 

Perhaps  some  of  you  noticed,  some 
time  ago,  an  item  in  the  Deseret  News, 
that  a  Sunday  school  worker,  not  of 
our  faith,  from  the  state  of  Ohio,  was 
attending  a  Sunday  school  convention 
in  the  city  of  Washington,  and  that  he 
declared  there  that  the  "Mormon"  Sun- 
day schools  were  the  best  in  the  world. 
That  was  indeed  a  compliment,  and  I 
have  no  doubt  but  that  it  was  de- 
served. Yet  there  are  still  opportuni- 
ties for  improvement. 

I  desire  to  call  your  attention  tonight 
to  a  subject  that  I  believe  is  one  wor- 
thy the  consideration  of  the  author- 
ities of  the  Church,  and  especially  of 
the  Sunday  schools.  That  is  the  ques- 
tion of  our  amusements.  I  am  associat- 


ed with  the  Church  schools,  and  the 
question  of  the  religious  education  of 
our  young  people  comes  to  me  from 
that  source,  as  well  as  from  the  Sunday 
schools.  In  visiting  these  schools  I  have 
had  occasion  to  ask  the  principals  what, 
in  their  judgment,  was  the  greatest  ob- 
stacle today  to  our  school  work,  and 
the  very  general  answer  has  been  that 
there  is  too  much  dancing.  I  want  to 
say  to  you  tonight  that  where  our 
young  people  are  out  to  a  dance  once 
or  more  every  week,  it  has  a  tendency 
to  demoralize  them,  in  a  religious  and 
in  an  intellectual  sense.  It  is  not  only 
the  time  that  is  devoted  to  it,  but  it  is 
the  excitement  that  precedes  and  fol- 
lows it  that  is  so  harmful  to  our  school 
work.  In  some  places  it  becomes  abso- 
lutely necessary  to  regulate  the  attend- 
ance of  our  students  in  the  dances  and 
require  that  they  get  the  permit  of  the 
principal  before  they  attended  any 
balls.  Only  a  year  or  two  ago  I  was 
riding  through  Salt  Lake  City  in  com- 
pany with  some  of  the  leaders  of  the 
National  Education  Association.  They 
were  considering  Salt  Lake  City  as  a 
suitable  place  for  some  future  conven- 
tion of  that  great  body  of  educators. 
As  we  were  passing  the  Salt  Lake 
Theater  it  was  pointed  out,  and  one  of 
these  national  educators  took  occasion 
to  remark  that  President  Young  was 
indeed  a  man  of  great  foresight  and 
wisdom,  whatever  people  might  think  of 
his  religious  belief.  Said  he,  he  (Presi- 
dent Young)  recognized  that  pleasure 
enters  into  the  life  of  man,  and  he  pro- 
posed, as  far  as  he  could,  to  guide  the 
whole  man.  The  physical  man,  the  man 
in  quest  of  pleasure,  as  well  as  the 
man  devoted  to  religion  and  worship. 
And,  said  he,  the  man  that  today  can 
control  the  amusements  of  the  people 
and  restrict  them  in  their  excessive 
pleasure,  and  can  make  their  amuse- 
ments proper  and  suitable,  must  cer- 
tainly be  a  great  benefactor  to  his  fel- 
low-men. I  take  it  that  these  words 
are  very  true.  Indeed,  I  realize  that  it 
is  possible  for  the  amusement-maker  in 
all  communities  to  undo  much  of  the 
good  that  is  accomplished  in  the  Sun- 
day school  by  turning  our  children 
loose  to  excessive  pleasures.  It  has  a 
tendency  to  demoralize  them;  it  makes 
them  seekers  after  pleasure  rather  than 


DBSERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


97 


after  the  love  of  God  and  after  knowl- 
edge and  information;  and  it  is  to 
be  hoped  that  our  Sunday  school  offi- 
cers will,  as  far  as  they  can,  control 
the  amusements  of  the  children.  We 
want  to  enter  into  their  entire  lives; 
we  want  them  to  feel  that  we  are  in- 
terested in  all  that  they  do,  that  we 
are  with  them  in  the  schoolroom,  that 
we  are  with  them  in  the  dance,  in  the 
concert,  and  in  all  those  necessary  and 
nroper  amusements  which  our  young 
people  ought  to  have;  and  we  ought 
to  guard,  on  the  other  hand,  against 
a  spirit  of  excessiveness.  It  would  he 
gratifying,  indeed,  if  the  spirit  of  the 
Sunday  school  could  control  in  the  ball- 
room as  it  controls  in  the  meeting 
house  or  schoolroom.  We  would  be 
glad  if  those  men  whose  example  is 
before  the  children  in  the  classes  could 
be  with  them  occasionally  in  the  ball- 
room, that  there  might  always  be  some 
representative  of  these  school  workers 
and  officers  at  all  the  amusements.  Let 
us  control  the  lives  of  our  young  peo- 
ple in  their  entirety.  Let  us  not  sur- 
render the  pleasures  to  the  professional 
amusement  makers,  but  let  us  see  to  it 
that  our  children  are  under  our  control 
in  all  the  affairs  of  life.  I  want  to  say 
to  you  tonight  that  when  ever  you  go 
into  a  community  that  is  given  to  ex- 
cessive pleasure,  having  dances  once, 
twice,  and  sometimes  three  and  four 
nights  a  week,  you  may  depend  upon  it 
that  they  have  not  a  first  class  Sun- 
day school.  We  have  discovered  that 
our  Church  schools  are  worse  off  in 
those  communities  where  there  is  no 
restriction  placed  upon  the  amuse- 
ments, and  the  young  people  go  at  will. 
I  take  it  that  this  is  something  worthy 
the  consideration  of  our  people.  Years 
ago  our  amusements  were  controlled 
more  than  they  are  today,  and  the 
dances  and  amusements  were  opened 
by  prayer.  That  was  the  good  old- 
fashioned  custom  among  us.  I  want  to 
say  to  you  that  if  we  can  start  our 
young  people  out  in  the  ballroom  un- 
der the  spirit  and  influence  of  devotion 
to  their  God,  after  having  listened  to  a 
short  prayer,  they  are  not  so  likely  to 
be  guilty  of  that  giddiness,  and,  oft- 
times,  impropriety  that  characterizes 
some  of  our  dances. 
We  ought  to  look  after  the  dress  of 


our  young  people,  also.  We  are  not 
seeking  the  fashions  of  the  world;  we 
are  a  sober  God-fearing  people,  devot- 
ed to  our  religion.  We  need  recreation, 
but  only  as  a  matter  of  relaxation.  We 
must  not  be  controlled  wholly 
by  the  spirit  of  pleasure.  ■  Let  us  con- 
trol our  amusements  and  keep  them 
subject  to  the  influences  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints; 
and  then  if  the  amusements  are  with- 
in the  keeping  of  the  religious  organ- 
izations of  the  Church  in  the  various 
wards,  we  will  gather  to  us  into  the 
Sabbath  Schools  a  great  many  young 
men  that  are  very  indifferent  today.  If 
they  find  that  the  Sabbath  School  and 
other  organizations  are  controlling  all 
the  life  of  the  people,  the  pleasures  as 
well  as  the  devotions  of  the  young,  then 
they  will  be  brought  under  that  influ- 
ence, and  it  will  only  be  a  question  of 
time  before  there  will  be  created  in 
their  hearts  a  love  for  the  Sabbath 
School. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters. Let  us  rejoice  in  the  work  that 
we  are  doing,  and  let  us  remember  also 
that  there  are  matters  that  need  our 
attention,  and  that  it  is  our  duty  to 
go  on  and  improve.  God  bless  the  offi- 
cers of  our  Sunday  Schools,  these  men 
and  women  who  are  teachers,  who  are 
devoting,  unconsciously,  perhaps,  their 
lives  for  the  blessing  of  the  youth  of 
Zion,  who  are  some  day  to  be  the 
glory  of  God,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  "Let  the  Hills  Re- 
sound." 

GENERAL  SUPERINTENDENT 
JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

I  have  been  requested  to  make  a  few 
remarks,  and  I  shall  certainly  try  to 
be  brief. 

There  is  one  point  that  has  rested 
upon  my  mind  in  relation  to  the  Sab- 
bath Schools,  and  it  is  this:  I  think 
there  is  nothing  in  the  Sunday  School 
work  more  necessary  or  essential  than 
that  all  the  teachers  of  the  Sunday 
Schools  should  win  the  love  and  the 
confidence  of  their  pupils.  I  believe 
that  greater  good  can  be  done  in  the 
Sunday  Schools  by  the  teachers  where 
they  have  the  absolute  affection  andi 


98 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


confidence  of  their  pupils  than  under 
any  other  conditions.  -You  may  teach 
them,  you  may  drill  them  in  concert, 
and  you  may  have  them  commit  to 
memory,  and  labor  in  every  other  way 
that  you  possibly  can  to  accomplish  the 
good  that  you  desire  with  your  children, 
but  in  nothing,  in  my  opinion,  can  you 
succeed  so  well  as  when  you  possess 
their  undivided  love  and  confidence.  If 
a  ohild  thinks  a  teacher  is  harsh  with 
him  or  her,  or  unkind  toward  him,  or 
does  not  feel  a  real,  genuine  love  for 
him,  if  he  feels  that  the  teacher  is 
not  taking  a  real  interest  in  him  as  one 
who  loves  him,  he  can  never  be  led  to 
possess  the  right  spirit;  but  when  he 
feels  that  the  teacher  loves  him,  is  try- 
ing to  do  him  good  and  to  teach  him 
that  which  will  be  for  his  everlasting 
welfare,  then  you  have  an  influence 
over  that  child,  that  when  he  studies  he 
will  study  with  a  purpose  and  with  an 
earnest  desire  to  be  benefitted  and  to 
please  the  teacher;  because  he  knows 
and  feels  in  his  little  heart  that  the 
teacher  loves  him  and  is  seeking  to  do 
him  good.  I  have  entertained  this  sen- 
timent from  the  beginning  and  in  re- 
lation to  the  instruction  of  little  chil- 
dren. It  is  a  principle  that  obtains  at 
the  home  as  well  as  in  the  Sunday 
School.  If  you  can  only  convince  your 
children  that  you  love  them,  that  your 
soul  goes  out  to  them  for  their  good, 
that  you  are  their  truest  friend,  they, 
in  turn,  will  place  confidence  in  you 
and  will  love  you  and  seek  to  do  your 
bidding  and  to  carry  out  your  wishes 
with  your  love,  or  are  harsh  or  speak 
concerning  them.  But  if  you  are  selfish 
unkindly  to  them,  and  if  they  are  not 
confident  that  they  have  your  entire  af- 
fection, they  will  be  selfish,  and  will 
not  care  whether  they  please  you  or 
carry  out  your  wishes  or  not,  and  the 
result  will  be  that  they  will  grow  way- 
ward, thoughtless  and  careless,  and  al- 
though you  may  drill  them,  like  a  par- 
rot, to  repeat  verses  and  to  speak  in 
concert,  and  all  that  sort  of  thing, 
they  will  do  it  mechanically,  without 
affection,  and  without  its  having  that 
effect  upon  their  souls  that  you  desire 
it  should  have. 

I  felt  to  say  that  much,  in  relation 
to  the  influence  of  the  Sunday  School 
teachers.     Be  good  and  kind  to  the 


children;  win  their  affection.  You  can 
do  more  that  way  than  you  can  with 
the  rod;  you  can  do  more  than  you  can 
by  tyranny  or  by  any  forceful  means. 

May  the  Lord  bless  the  teachers  of 
the  Sunday  Schools,  and  give  them  the 
spirit  of  meekness  and  kindness,  that 
they  may  be  able  to  convince  the  chil- 
dren entrusted  to  their  care  that  they 
love  them  and  are  seeking  for  the  wel- 
fare and  happiness  of  their  souls,  and 
the  children,  in  turn,  will  love  them  and 
strive  to  learn  and  to  do  good.  God 
bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  L.  JOHN  NUTTALL. 

The  program  for  our  work  during  the 
present  year  has  been  gotten  out  by  the 
Sunday  School  Union  Board,  and  copies 
have  been  forwarded  to  the  different 
Stake  superintendents.  If  there  are 
any  who  have  not  received  these  pro- 
grams, we  desire  to  have  you  call  at 
our  general  headquarters  and  obtain 
enough  for  the  different  schools  of  your 
Stake.  In  connection  with  this,  the  time 
for  holding  the  conferences  of  the  dif- 
ferent Stakes  has  been  provided.  We 
have,  however,  since  learned  that,  in 
three  of  the  Stakes,  at  least,  our  ap- 
pointments interfere  with  the  quarter- 
ly Stake  conferences;  therefore,  it  has 
been  necessary  to  make  changes  in 
those  Stakes.  The  Sunday  School  Union 
Board,  early  in  the  season,  sent  out  le  1- 
ters  to  the  different  Stakes,  asking  if 
more  than  one  day  for  holding  the  Sun- 
day school  conference  would  be  desired. 
We  have  only  received  answers  from 
four  desiring  more  than  one  day  for 
their  conference  services.  Those  four 
are  the  Jordan,  Cassia,  Summit  and 
Star  Valley  Stakes.  There  may  be  oth- 
ers also  that  desire  to  hold  two  days' 
conference,  and  the  program  is  suffi- 
cient to  enable  them  to  do  so.  There- 
fore, if  any  desire  more  than  one  day, 
we  will  ask  you  to  make  it  known  to 
our  secretary,  so  that  proper  arrange- 
ments may  be  made  therefor. 

Dates  for  holding  annual  Stake  Sun- 
day school  conferences,  1902: 

Boxelder,  Sunday,  April  20. 

Utah,  Sunday,  April  27. 

Malad,  Nebo,  Cache,  Sunday,  May  11. 

Jordan,  Saturday  and  Sunday,  May 
17  and  18. 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


99 


Alpine,  Juab,  Woodruff,  Sunday,  May 
18. 

Bingham,  St.  George,  San  Juan,  Sun- 
day, May  25. 

San  Luis,  Sunday,  June  1. 

Bannock,  (first  district)  Granite,  Par- 
owan,  Sunday,  June  8. 

Beaver,  North  Sanpete,  Sevier,  Sun- 
day, June  15. 

Millard,  South  Sanpete,  Sunday,  June 
22. 

Bear  Lake,  "Cassia,  Sunday,  June  29. 

Star  Valley,  Saturday  and  Sunday, 
July  5  and  6. 

Union,  "Wayne,  Sunday,  July  6. 

Oneida,  Panguitch,  Pocatello,  Sunday, 
July  13. 

Summit,  Sunday  and  Monday,  July 
13  and  14. 

Alberta,  Kanab,  Wasatch,  Sunday, 
July  20. 

Big  Horn,  Hyrum,  Sunday,  July  27. 
Benson,  Teton,  Morgan,  Sunday,  Aug. 

10. 

Bannock  (second  district),  Uintah, 
Sunday,  Aug.  17. 

Tooele,  Emery,  Sunday,  Aug.  24. 

Salt  Lake,  Sunday,  Aug.  31. 

Davis,  Fremont,  Sunday,  Sept.  14. 

Weber,  Sunday,  Sept.  21. 

It  is  desirable,  my  brethren  of  the 
Stake  superintendencies,  that  those  of 
you  who  have  not  received  your  quota 
of  the  questions  to  be  answered  by  the 
ward  superintendents,  will  secure  them, 
and  that  you  will  see  to  it  that  these  re- 
ports, after  being  filled  out  by  the  vari- 
ous superintendents  of  the  schools  of 
your  Stake,  are  in  the  hands  of  your 
Stake  secretaries  at  least  three  days 
before  your  conference,  so  that  the  vis- 
iting brethren  of  the  union  board,  when 
they  meet  with  you,  may  have  the  op- 
portunity of  looking  them  over  and  as- 
certaining the  conditions  of  the  schools 
in  your  Stakes  without  having  to  ask 
the  superintendents  to  arise  and  make 
their  reports  verbally. 

Tou  will  note  in  the  program  that 
there  is  provision,  where  we  only  have 
one  day's  services,  for  but  one  ward  su- 
perintendent to  make  a  verbal  report. 
All  others  will  have  to  be  made  in  writ- 
ing.  We  also  desire  that  you  will  have 

*  Cassia  will  hold  two  days'  session, 
superintendent    to    decide  for  second 

day. 


your  last  year's  report,  and  also  the  re- 
ports of  your  ward  superintendents,  as 
made  at  the  last  conference,  on  hand 
at  the  coming  conference,  so  that  com- 
parisons may  be  made  in  regard  to  the 
work  that  is  being  done,  to  the  end  that 
all  that  is  desired  may  be  accomplished 
in  the  interests  of  the  youth  of  Zion, 
that  our  organization  may  fill  its  place 
—the  nursery  of  all  the  organizations  in 
the  Church.  The  grand  object  that  we 
have  in  view' in  the  Sunday  school  or- 
ganization, being  to  make  Latter-day 
Saints  of  our  children. 

May  God  bless  us,  and  let  the  power 
of  His  spirit  attend  us  as  officers  and 
workers  in  the  Sunday  school,  in  the 
faithful  discharge  of  the  labors  devolv- 
ing upon  us,  to  the  end  that  we  may  ac- 
complish our  mission  on  earth,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

I  congratulate  the  congregation  on 
the  good  order  which  has  been  kept 
here  tonight. 

I  have  been  pleased  to  see  such  a 
large  attendance  of  Sunday  school 
workers.  I  hope  that  you  will  remem- 
ber the  excellent  lesson  President  Smith 
gave  us.  If  you  want  influence  over 
the  children  you  must  reach  their 
hearts.  While  we  desire  them  taught 
in  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  and  wish 
them  to  obtain  knowledge,  still  we  want 
to  reach  their  hearts;  and  instil  in 
them  a  love  for  virtue.  We  want  to 
make  them  see  the  beauty  of  virtue  and 
to  make  them  love  it.  We  want  to 
make  them  understand  how  odious  vice 
is,  and  teach  them  to  detest  it.  That 
is  the  great  mission  we  have  to  per- 
form every  Sunday  morning,  when  we 
meet  with  our  precious  little  ones.  Make 
the  school  attractive;  gather  all  that 
can  attend  into  a  school  and  try  to  get 
their  love,  as  our  President  has  coun- 
seled us  tonight. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you  in  the  good 
work  in  which  you  are  engaged. 

I  also  feel  to  thank  the  Tabernacle 
choir  for  their  presence  here  and  their 
beautiful  singing.  I  would  say  let  our 
Sunday  school  children  learn  singing. 
When  they  grow  up,  the  boys  especial- 
ly, and  become  missionaries,  what  a 
blessing  it  is  to  them  to  be  able  to  sing. 


100 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


I  was  struck  when  I  read  the  state- 
ment in  the  Juvenile  that  our  songs 
are  being  sung  amongst  the  children 
of  the  outsiders  in  Germany,  through 
the  presence  and  labors  of  our  Sunday 
schools.  When  our  Sunday  school  chil- 
dren learn  to  sing  the  songs  of  Zion, 
they  will  love  to  come  together  and 
partake  of  the  spirit  present    in  the 


school  and  make  it  attractive  to  others. 
May  the  Lord  bless  the  Sunday  school 
cause. 

"Our  God  we  Raise  to  Thee"  was 
sung  by  the  choir  and  congregation. 

Elder  John  Henry  Smith  offered  the 
benediction. 

GEO.  D.  PYPBR,  Secy. 


i  i 

TO  MISSIONARIES: 

¥  ¥ 

¥  ¥ 

¥  ¥ 

+                                    To  aid  missionaries  in  J 

{                                    their  fields  of  labor  the  £ 

*  ¥ 

¥  ¥ 

¥  ¥ 

I  SEMI-  ! 
WEEKLY 

NEWS  i 


¥ 
¥ 
¥ 
¥ 
¥ 
* 
¥ 
¥ 
* 
* 

★ 


* 


Will  be  sent  to  subscrib- 
*  ers  sent  in  by  them  at 


|  ONE  DOLLAR  j 

|  A  YEAR.  w*  I 

I  t 

¥  ? 

*  ¥ 

*  * 

J  This  offer  applies  only  to  J 

J  subscribers  in  the  mission-  * 

*  ary  field.  J>  J-  J-  J-  J-  * 

¥  i 


JUST  ISSUED 

The  New  and  Revised 
Edition  of  the  j* 


Pearl  of 
great  Price 

Cloth    -    35  cts. 

Leather  -  60  cts. 

Leather  Qilt  $1.00 

Morocco  Extra 

Qilt  $1.25 

POSTPAID. 

Divided  into  Chapters  and    <^3[M4/t£    C     IT  %  1  frM  %  /»  A 
Verses  with  References,  by    J<Mlv>    XL*  V<Hlll«ijV 

Brief  fiistory 
of  tbe  Cburcb 

Paper     -    25  cts. 
Cloth  -    -  75  cts. 
Leather  =   50  cts. 
Leather  Qilt  $1.00 

SECOND  EDITION, 
brought  dbw"  todda"et  by  C^WANl  I).  JfttdOTSOIt 

DESERET    NEWS    BOOK  STORE, 


6  MAIN  STREET,         SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH. 


