i. 


4 


SEVENTIETH 


Annual  Conference  1 

# 
i 

OF  THE  ^jp 

f 

CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST  OF  | 
LATTER-DAY  SAINTS.  % 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  April  6th,  7th  and  ^ 
8th,  1900,  with  a  Full  Report  of  the  Discourses,  <$[ 


4 


ALSO  AN  ACCOUNT  OF  THF.  GENERAL  CONFERENCE  % 
ALSO  ana  ^^^^  DESERET-sUNDAY  SCHOOL  i 

UNION.  ^ 


w 
w 


THE  DESERET  NEWS. 
1900. 


24  PAGES 

Profusely  Illustrated  with 
Etchings  and  Half  Tones. 


£$f&£Z  COMBINED. 


SENT  TO  ANY  ADDRESS  FOR 

$2.00  a  Year. 


TO  REGULAR  SUBSCRIBERS  OF 
THE  SEMI-WEEKLY  NEWS 


$1.50  a  Year. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 


FIRST 

The  seventieth  annual  conference  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle 
at  10  a.  m.  on  Friday,  April  6th,  1900, 
President  Lorenzo  Snow  presiding. 

Of  the  general  authorities  present 
there  were,  of  the  First  Presidency, 
Lorenzo  Snow,  George  Q.  Cannon  and 
Joseph  F.  Smith;  of  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles— Brigham  Young, 
Francis  M.  Lyman,  John  Henry  Smith, 
George  Teasdale,  Heber  J.  Grant,  John 
W.  Taylor,  Marriner  W.  Merrill,  Anthon 
H.  Lund,  Matthias  F.  Cowley,  Abraham 
O.  Woodruff  and  Rudger  Clawson;  Pa- 
triarch John  Smith;  of  the  First  Seven 
Presidents  of  Seventies — Seymour  B. 
Young,C.  D.Fjeldsted,  George  Reynolds, 
Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells 
and  Joseph  W.  McMurrin;  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric— William  B.  Preston, 
Robert  T.  Burton  and  John  R.  Winder, 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  which  begins: 

Our  God,  we  raise  to  thee, 
Thanks  for  thy  blessings  free 
We  here  enjoy. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  John  Nicholson. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  commencing: 

Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  salva- 
tion, 

No  longer  as  strangers  on  earth  need 
we  roam. 

Good  tidings  are  sounding  to  us  and 
each  nation, 
And  shortly  the  hour  of  redemption 
will  come. 


DAY, 

PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 
Opening  Address. 

My  brethren  and  sisters — I  desire  a 
deep  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers. 
When  I  say  this  I  express  the  feelings, 
I  presume,  of  every  Elder  who  arises  to 
speak  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  So  far 
as  giving  information  and  assisting  the 
Latter-day  Saints  in  their  faith  is  con- 
cerned, we  are  dependent  on  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  and,  in  a  measure,  the  ex- 
ercise of  faith  by  the  people  of  God. 

I  am  thankful  for  the  blessings  that 
have  attended  me  in  my  endeavors  to 
forward  the  interests  of  the  Church 
and  for  the  prayers  and  support  that  I 
have  had  from  the  people,  who  have 
listened  to  the  requirements  of  the  Lord 
and  have  conformed  to  them  at  least 
to  a  certain  extent. 

Seventy  years  ago  this  Church  was 
organized  with  six  members.  We  com- 
menced, so  to  speak,  as  an  infant.  We 
had  our  prejudices  to  combat.  Our  ig- 
norance troubled  us  in  regard  to  what 
the  Lord  intended  to  do  and  what  He 
wanted  us  to  do.  Through  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord,  however,  we  managed 
to  move  along  in  our  stage  of  infancy, 
receiving  support  from  the  Lord  as  He 
saw  proper  to  give  it.  We  advanced 
into  boyhood,  and  still  we  undoubtedly 
made  some  mistakes,  which  did  not 
generally  arise  from  a  design  to  make 
them,  but  from  a  lack  of  experience. 
We  understand  very  well,  when  we  re- 
flect back  upon  our  own  lives,  that  we 
did  many  foolish  things  when  we  were 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


boys,  because  of  our  lack  of  experience 
and  because  we  had  not  learned  fully 
to  obey  the  instructions  of  our  fathers 
and  mothers.  "We  could  not  then  com- 
prehend that  it  was  absolutely  neces- 
sary, for  our  proper  advancement,  that 
we  should  observe  the  counsels  of  our 
parents.  Many  of  us  afterwards  learned 
It,  but  too  late  perhaps  to  correct  our- 
selves. Yet  as  we  advanced  the  ex- 
perience of  the  past  materially  assist- 
ed us  to  avoid  such  mistakes  as  we 
had  made  in  our  boyhood. 

It  has  been  so  with  the  Church.  Our 
errors  have  generally  arisen  from  a  lack 
of  comprehending'  what  the  Lord  re- 
quired us  to  do.  But  now  we  are  pret- 
ty well  along  to  manhood;  we  are  sev- 
enty years  of  age,  and  one  would 
imagine  that  after  a  man  had  lived 
through  his  infancy,  through  his  boy- 
hood, and  on  until  he  had  arrived  at 
the  age  of  seventy  years,  he  would  be 
able,  through  his  long  experience,  to  do 
a  great  many  things  that  seemed  im- 
possible and  in  fact  were  impossible 
for  him  to  do  in  his  boyhood  state. 
When  we  examine  ourselves,  however, 
we  discover  that  we  are  still  not  doing 
exactly  as  we  ought  to  do,  notwith- 
standing all  our  experience.  We  dis- 
cern that  there  are  things  which  we  fail 
to  do  that  the  Lord  expects  us  to  per- 
form, some  of  which  he  required  us  to 
do  in  our  boyhood.  But  we  feel  thank- 
ful and  grateful  that  we  are  enabled 
now,  through  our  past  experience,  to 
accomplish  many  things  that  we  could 
not  do  in  former  times  and  that  we  are 
able  to  escape  individual  sins  that  have 
brought  trouble  upon  us  in  times  past. 
While  we  congratulate  ourselves  in  this 
direction,  we  certainly  ought  to  feel 
that  we  have  not  yet  arrived  at  per- 
fection. There  are  many  things  for  us 
to  do  yet. 

The  Lord  has  prospered  us  amazingly, 
and  we  are  doing  large  things  at  the 
present  time.  We  are  blessing  the  peo- 
ple of  the  world.  We  are  sending  well 
on  towards  two  thousand  Elders  out 
into  the  missionary  field,  and  we  learn 
that  they  are  having  very  good  success; 
and  notwithstanding  all  the  difficulties 
that  seemingly  have  arisen  to  make 
trouble  for  the  Latter-day  Saints,  we 
are  pleased  to  find  that  it  has  all  tend- 
ed to  good.    Our  Elders  in  the  mission 


fields  tell  us  that  the  excitement  which 
has  been  created  and  carried  on 
almost  universally  throughout  the 
United  States  has  caused  people 
to  become  wonderfully  interested  to 
know  what  Mormonism  is,  and,  in  or- 
der to  get  an  understanding  of  our 
principles,  they  flock  to  our  meetings. 
Because  of  this  the  Elders  feel  very 
grateful.  This  is  what  we  wish  and 
what  there  has  been  a  difficulty  in  ac- 
complishing, that  is,  in  getting  the  peo- 
ple out  to  hear  what  we  have  to  say, 
so  that  they  might  understand  what 
Mormonism  really  is  from  those  who 
understand  what  it  is,  instead  of  re- 
ceiving it  from  those  who  understand 
nothing  at  all  about  it,  only  as  they 
hear  stories  concerning  it.  So  this  is 
going  on  all  right  and  will  work  all 
right.  We  ought  to  be  very  grateful 
that  this  missionary  work  is  being  ac- 
complished so  successfully  by  the 
many  Elders  that  are  now  in  the  vari- 
ous missionary  fields. 

We  are  also  establishing  colonies  here 
and  there.  We  are  sending  many  fami- 
lies into  Canada,  and  they  are  moving 
along  very  successfully.  We  are 
about  to  send  a  hundred  families  into 
the  Big  Horn  region,  in  the  State  of 
Wyoming,  and  Latter-day  Saints  are 
moving  into  other  places  and  building 
up  the  country. 

Now  that  we  are  approaching  our 
seventy-first  year.the  Lord  expects  that 
we  will  do  something — something  that 
will  cause  the  nations  to  marvel,  as 
what  we  have  done  has  caused  them 
already  to  wonder. 

Now,  Latter-day  Saints,  how  is  it 
with  us?  We  have  received  the  Gos- 
pel. We  have  received  the  kingdom 
of  God,  established  on  the  earth.  We 
have  had  trouble;  we  have  been  per- 
secuted. We.  were  driven  from  Ohio; 
we  were  driven  from  Missouri;  we 
were  driven  from  Nauvoo;  and  once 
we  were  driven  for  a  time  from  this 
beautiful  city.  Many  have  lost  thous- 
ands of  dollars;  lost  their  homes  and 
all  they  had,  and  some  of  the  brethren 
have  seen  their  wives  and  children  lay 
down  their  lives  because  of 
the  hardships  they  had  to  ex- 
perience during  these  changes,  these 
persecutions,  these  revolutions  and 
these     drivings.      The     people  have 


PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 


3 


looked     with     astonishment     at  the 
willingness   of     the  Latter-day  Saints 
to     suffer     these     things.     Why  do 
we  do  this?     Why  do    we  adhere  to 
these  principles  that  have  caused  us  at 
times  so    much    grief    and  sacrifice? 
What  is  it  that  enables  us  to  endure 
these  persecutions  and  still  rejoice?  It 
is  because  we  have    had  revelations 
from  the   Almighty;    because  He  has 
spoken  to  us  in  our  souls  and  has  given 
to  us  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  is  a  prin- 
ciple of  revelation  wherever  it  exists 
and  is  promised  to  every  man,  as  in 
the  days  of  the  former  Apostles,  who 
will  believe,  repent  of  his  sins  and  be 
immersed  in  water  for  the  remission  of 
them  by  those  who  have  the  authority 
from  the  Lord  to  administer  this  ordi- 
nance.    Jesus,  when  he  was  among  the 
children  of  men,  said  that    He  would 
build  His  Church  upon  this  principle 
of  revelation  and  the  gates  of  hell  should 
not  prevail  against  it.     When  He  was 
in  Cesareea  He    asked    His  disciples 
"Whom  do  men  say  that  I  the  Son  of 
Man  am?"     He  had  been  performing 
miracles  and    accomplishing  the  most 
astonishing  wonders  in  the  midst  of  the 
people.     What  did  the    people  learn 
from  these  things  and  what  did  they 
think  of  Him?     As  the    Apostles  re- 
plied, some  said  that  He  was  John  the 
Baptist,  risen  from    the    dead;  some 
thought  He  was  one    of    the  former 
Prophets,  while  others  thought  He  was 
Elias.     The  Savior  said  to    His  dis- 
ciples "But  whom  say  ye  that  I  am?" 
Peter  replied  "Thou  art  the  Christ,  the 
Son  of  the  Living  God."     How  did  he 
find  it  out?     On  the  same  principle 
that  you  and  I  have  found  out  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a    Prophet  of  God, 
who,  like  Noah,  was    sent    into  the 
world  to  give  the  people  warning  before 
the  great  burning  should  occur  and  to 
call  upon  them  to  repent  of  their  sins. 
Peter  had  found  it  out  by  the  principle 
of  revelation.     He    had    not  learned 
this  of  man,  nor  by  reading  the  an- 
cient Scriptures,  but  the  Lord  had  re- 
vealed it  unto  him.  Jesus  said  unto  him, 
"Blessed  art  thou,    Simon  Bar-jona; 
for    flesh    and    blood    hath    not  re- 
vealed it  unto  thee,   but  my  Father 
which  is  in  heaven.  And  I  say  also  unto 
thee,  that  thou  art  Peter;  and  upon  this 
rock  I  will  build  my  Church;  and  the 


gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against 
it."  The  Church  of  Christ  today  is  built 
upon  this  same  principle,  and  the  gates 
of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against  it. 
They  did  not  prevail  against  us  in  our 
infancy;  they  did  not  in  our  boyhood; 
they  did  not  in  our  early  manhood;  and 
I  will  assure  you  they  will  not  now 
that  we  are  seventy  years  old. 

This  Church  will  stand,  because  it  is 
upon  a  firm  basis.  It  is  not  from  man; 
it  is  not  from  the  study  of  the  New 
Testament  or  the  Old  Testament;  it  is 
not  the  result  of  the  learning  that  we 
received  in  colleges  nor  seminaries,  but 
it  has  come  directly  from  the  Lord.  The 
Lord  has  shown  it  to  us  by  the  reveal- 
ing principle  of  4;he  Holy  Spirit  of  light 
and  every  man  can  receive  this  same 
spirit. 

In  the  days  of  Noah  the  people  of  that 
generation  had  the  privilege  of  knowing 
whether  Noah  spoke  from  the  Lord  and 
whether  the  message  that  he  claimed  to 
have  from  the  Lord  was  genuine  or  not. 
They,  could  have  had  a  revelation  for 
themselves,  because  he  preached  the 
Gospel  as  you  and  I  now  preach  it  in 
the  world,  and  they  could  have  known 
that  their  salvation  depended  upon  their 
receiving  and  obeying  this  message 
which  Noah  delivered  unto  them.  In 
the  days  of  Jesus  it  was  the  same.  But 
no  person  can  know  that  Jesus  is  the 
Son  of  God,  except  by  revelation.  That 
was  the  way  Peter  received  it.  The 
Lord  is  a  consistent  being.  He  does  not 
require  the  people  to  do  that  which  is 
improper,  nor  does  he  expect  of  them 
anything  unreasonable.  He  gives  us  a 
knowledge  of  what  we  shall  do,  inas- 
much as  we  are  willing  to  sacrifice  our 
lives  rather  than  go  contrary  to  that 
knowledge.  He  opens  to  us  the  secrets 
of  the  celestial  kingdom,  and  he  is  con- 
stantly communicating  to  us  things 
that  we  never  knew  before.  This  knowl- 
edge and  intelligence  is  growing  upon 
us  continually. 

Ought  we  not  to  be  thankful, 
therefore,  today?  Every  man  and 
woman  within  the  sound  of  my 
voice  ought  to  be  grateful 
that  circumstances  are  as  favorable 
as  they  are.  Everything  is  for  us  and 
nothing  can  prevent  our  moving  for- 
ward now  in  our  seventy-first  year. 
There  is  no  power  that  can  prevent  us, 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


as  there  has  been  none  in  the  past.  We 
have  received  too  much  knowledge  to 
be  thwarted  in  our  purposes.  Those 
who  desire  to  persecute  and  overthrow 
Mormonism,  let  them  go  on  and  do  their 
work;  that  is  for  them  to  do.  Our  work 
is  to  grow  in  the  knowledge  of  God,  to 
keep  the  commandments  of  God,  to  be 
faithful  and  to  continue  to  increase  and 
to  become  more  and  more  perfect  as  we 
advance  in  years. 

God  bless  you,  brethren  and  sisters. 
We  rejoice  to  see  you  here.  You  have 
come  that  you  might  be  blessed  that 
you  might  get  information  that  will  be 
of  service  to  you  and  knowledge  that 
will  increase  your  intelligence;  and 
there  will  be  from  fifteen  to  twenty 
speakers,  I  am  sure  that  every  person 
who  has  come  here  for  the  purpose  of 
receiving  information  and  being  blessed 
will  have  the  opportunity,  through  some 
of  the  speakers,  to  get  something  that 
will  be  very  valuable  to  them  for  the 
future  scenes  through  which  they  will 
be  called  to  pass. 

God  bless  you,  brethren  and  sisters, 
and  may  we  have  a  glorious  time  and 
one  of  the  best  conferences  that  we 
have  ever  had,  is  my  prayer,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  YOUNG. 

God  has  brought  the  Saints  through  every  ordeal — 
Tithe-paying  not  a  question  of  Monty,  but  of 
priuciple — The  Redemption  of  Zion. 

I  take  great  pleasure  in  bearing  testi- 
mony to  the  remarks  that  have  been 
made  by  President  Snow  this  morning. 
I  am  thankful  to  God  and  to  our  Presi- 
dent for  the  testimony  that  he  has  giv- 
en us.  It  arouses  in  my  mind  many  re- 
flections, brings  before  me  the  past  his- 
tory of  this  Church  and  foreshadows 
the  future  destiny  of  this  people.  God 
has  been  merciful  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  if  there  are  any  men  oppos- 
ing us  that  have  the  idea  that  we  do  not 
pray  for  them,  they  are  mistaken.  We 
pray  the  Lord  to  soften  the  hearts  of 
our  enemies.  We  pray  that  they  may 
be  turned  from  their  evil  ways  and  not 
kick  against  the  pricks,  but  seek  to 
forsake  the  evil  that  is  within  them  and 
to  do  good.  They  are,  however,  in  the 
hands  of  God,  as  we  are. 

We  are  glad  to  know  that  this  people 
have  gained  victory  after  victory.  They 


have    marched    on,  conquering  and  to 
conquer.   In  our  youth,  as  stated  by  our 
President,    when    struggling  against 
fearful  odds,  we  came  out  greater,  no- 
bler, better  soldiers  of  the  cross  than 
when  we  entered  into  this  vortex  of 
persecution;  and  now  in  our  manhood, 
in  our  riper  years,  thank  God  that  we 
have  heard  the  voice  of  our  leader  say- 
ing that  we  are  marching  on  to  success 
and  victory— to  the  time  when  men  and 
nations  will  arise  up  and  say,  "Thou 
blessed  people,  that  have  fought  the 
good  fight,  that  have  led  the  way  and 
established  righteousness  in  the  land 
of  our  fathers."  I  expect  to  see  this 
day.    There  is  no  power  that  can  bat- 
tle successfully  against  our  Father  and 
God.   If  we  are  His  people,  we  are  sure 
to    win.    If   we  are  not  His,  how  is  it 
that     we      have      been      so  suc- 
cessful       from        the  beginning? 
and  have  through  His  power,  in  which 
we  have  trusted,  grown  to  be  seventy 
years  old,    instead  of    being    a  mere 
child  in  swaddling  clothes?    God  has 
done  it;  He  has  given  us  these  rights 
and  blessings.   I  felt  in  my  heart  while 
the  President  was  talking  that  I  could 
prophesy  to  those  who  fight  against  us. 
Do  your  worst;  do  your  best;  try  to  ac- 
complish all  the  evil  that  is  in  your 
hearts;  but  as  true    as  God  lives  this 
kingdom  will  sweep  on,   this  Church 
will  progress,  and  the  Kingdom  of  God 
will  be  as  the  stone  cut  out  of  the  mouru 
tain  without  hands— it  will  crush  all 
opposition.    Now,  that  is  not  disloyal, 
because  God  will  do  it,  not  man. 

I  am  not  opposed  to  any  man  who 
seeks  to  do  right.  I  am  not  opposed 
to  any  government  that  seeks  to  give 
liberty  to  the  people  and  the  privilege 
to  exercise  that  free  agency  which  Go^ 
has  given  to  all  men.  Every  man  an'; 
woman  must  have  their  agency.  No 
man  can  take-  it  from  the  sons  and 
daughters  of  our  Father. 

It  occurred  to  me  this  morning  while 
sitting  here  that  if  I  happened  to  be 
called  upon  to  speak,  I  would  read  a 
part  of  the  29th  chapter  of  Alma,  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon. 

"O,  that  I  were  an  angel,  and  could 
have  the  wish  of  mine  heart,  that  I 
might  go  forth  and  speak  with  the 
trump  of  God.  with  a  voice  to  shrke 
the  earth,  and  cry  repentance  unto 
every  people; 


ELDER  BRIG  HAM  YOUNG. 


5 


"Yea,  I  would  declare  unto  every  soul 
as  with  a  voice  of  thunder,  repentance, 
and  the  plan  of  redemption,  that  they 
should  repent  and-  come  unto  our  God, 
that  there  might  not  be  more  sorrow 
upon  all  the  face  of  the  earth. 

"But  behold,  I  am  a  man,  and  do  sin 
in  my  wish;  for  I  ought  to  be  content 
with  the  things  which  the  Lord  hath 
allotted  unto  .me. 

"I  ought  not  to  harrow  up  in  my  de- 
sires, the  firm  decree  of  a  just  God, 
for  I  know  that  he  granteth  unto  men 
according  to  their  desire,  whether  it  be 
unto  death  or  unto  life;  yea,  I  know 
that  he  alloteth  unto  men,  according  to 
their  wills;  whether  they  be  unto  sal- 
vation or  unto  destruction. 

"Tea,  and  I  know  that  good  and  evil 
have  come  before  all  men;  for  he  that 
knoweth  not  good  from  evil  is 
blameless;  but  he  that  knoweth 
good  and  evil,  to  him  it  is 
given  according  to  his  desires;  whether 
he  desireth  good  or  evil,  to  him  it  is 
given  according  to  his  desires;  whether 
he  desireth  good  or  evil,  life  or  death, 
joy  or  remorse  of  conscience. 

"Now  seeing  that  I  know  these  things, 
why  should  I  desire  more  than  to  per- 
form the  work  to  which  I  have  been 
called. 

"Why  should  I  desire  that  I  was  an 
angel,  that  I  could  speak  unto  all  the 
ends  of  the  earth. 

"For  behold,  the  Lord  doth  grant  unto 
all  nations,  of  their  own  nation  and 
tongue,  to  teach  his  word;  yea,  in  wis- 
dom, all  that  he  seeth  fit  that  they 
should  have;  therefore  we  see  that  the 
Lord  doth  counsel  in  wisdom,  accord- 
ing to  that  which  is  just  and  true." 

The  Lord  is  with  his  people,  and  I 
know  it.  We  have  learned  to  know 
good  from  evil.  Three  score  years  and 
ten  shall  be  the  days  of  man  on  earth. 
We  have  arrived  at  the  full  stature  of 
a  man;  for  we  are  three  score  years' 
and  ten  this  day,  and  if  this  people 
will  arise  in  their  manhood,  as  they 
have  struggled  to  their  feet  in  their 
childhood  and  youth,  God  will  give  them 
the  strength  of  a  man.  They  shall  have 
the  power  to  build  up  and  inhabit,  to 
sow  and  reap,  and  if  the  snows  do  not 
come  in  the  mountains,  God  will  send 
through  the  faith  of  the  people,  the 
pleasant  rains  to  moisten  the  earth,  that 
vegetation  may  spring  forth  and  glad- 
den the  hearts  of  all.  Now  I  learn  a 
good  many  lessons  myself  from  what  I 
read  to  you,  though  I  have  not  reflected 
so  much  perhaps  as  1  will  on  the  words 
of  Alma. 

I  heard  a  man  say  in  relation  to  tith- 
ing, "I  don'.t  want  to  pay  my  tithing, 
unless  I  can  make  a  showing  that  will 


be  a  credit  to  me  and  really  help  to 
build  up  Zion.  If  I  could  put  in  ten 
thousand  dollars,  I  would  be  glad  to  do 
it,  but  I  have  nothing.  I  could  pay  a 
little  tithing,  but  the  idea  seems  ridicu- 
lous for  me  to  step  forward  and  pay  a 
dollar  in  tithing.  It  seems  to  me  like 
I  was  making  a  mockery  of  this  sacred 
principle."  But  I  take  the  other  view 
of  this,  and  I  said  to  him,  "My  friend, 
if  you  were  a  child  and  received  five 
cents,  I  would  caution  you  to  remem- 
ber the  fact  that  you  owed  half  a  cent 
tithing,  and  when  you  had  received  an- 
other and  another  five  cents,  until  they 
amounted  to  fifty  cents,  I  would  advise 
you  to  go  and  pay  your  tithing  on  that, 
not  for  the  sake  of  the  money,  but  for 
the  sake  of  principle."  If  it  were  a 
question  of  money,  where  would 
have  been  the  salvation  of 
this  people?  When  President  Snow 
was  speaking  this  morning  I  felt  that 
the  power  of  God  was  manifest  in  our 
preservation,  and  that  money  had  noth- 
ing to  do  with  it.  The  everlasting  pow- 
er of  our  Father  has  brought  this  peo- 
ple to  see  this  auspicious  day.  If  every 
man  and  woman  would  follow  the  ex- 
ample of  the  widow  and  cast  in  their 
mites,  they  would  be  acting  upon  prin- 
ciple. The  amount  of  money  paid  has 
nothing  to  do  with  it.  It  is  the  principle 
which  God  has  commanded  us  to  ob- 
serve. This  is  the  idea  that  we  want  to 
instill  into  the  hearts  of  the  people  of 
this  generation,  especially  at  this  time, 
when  the  servant  of  God  has  delivered 
unto  you  and  me  the  message  that  the 
time  has  come  when  this  revelation, 
given  on  the  8th  day  of  July,  1838,  in 
Far  West,  Caldwell  county,  Missouri, 
must  be  observed.  That  revelation  has 
now  come  to  the  front.  It  is  as  if  God 
had  inspired  His  servant  to  write  a  new 
revelation  to  the  people,  which  must  be 
observed,  because  it  lies  at  the  founda- 
tion of  our  prosperity  in  these  moun- 
tains. General  Thomas  L.  Kane  once 
said  to  me,  "This  land,  on  the  back- 
bone of  the  American  continent,  from 
Mexico  to  Canada,  it  seems  to  me,  be- 
longs to  the  "Mormon"  people.  They  led 
the  way  into  the  Rocky  mountains,  and 
occupied  these  valleys,  and  they  ought 
to  have  the  land."  Well,  there  are  not 
many  people  that  think  that,  but  I  am 
of  the  same  opinion  as  General  Kane. 
We  ou^ht  to  have  this  land.    But  in 


8 


GENERAL    CONFEREE  CE. 


relation  to  our  preservation  upon  this 
land,  I  have  felt  sometimes  very  inse- 
cure. Alma  wished  that  he  were  an 
angel,  that  his  voice  could  be  heard  by 
the  whole  world  and  that  he  could  con- 
vert all  the  sons  and  daughters  of 
Adam  to  the  Gospel  which  he  had  re- 
ceived. I  would  that  I  had  a  hundred 
thousand  dollars  to  pay  in  as  tithing, 
because  it  would  make  a  good  showing 
and  I  would  be  talked  about.  And 
some  have  the  ambition  to  be  spoken  of 
in  the  midst  of  Israel.  But  I  want  to 
say  to  you  that  tithing  is  a  principle 
that  God  has  established  for  the  train- 
ing of  men.  It  has  been  with  us  in 
our  childhood  and  in  our  boy- 
hood and  in  our  young  manhood, 
and  apparently  it  has  almost  been  a 
dead  letter  at  times.  But  the  revela- 
tion has  come  to  us  in  our  manhood, 
when  we  have  reached  a  stage  wherein 
we  know  God,  and  having  received  this 
knowledge  and  being  of  the  full  stature 
of  a  man,  we  can  rise  up  as  one  man 
and  obey  this  commandment,  which 
has  come  from  God  through  His  author- 
ized servant.  I  appeal  to  you  on  this 
point.  Let  every  man  and  woman  in 
this  Church  arise  and  do  that  which 
God  has  called  upon  them  to  do,  that 
this  land  may  be  sanctified  and  be  a 
land  of  safety  unto  us.  I  do  not  wish 
to  utter  a  threat,  but  I  do  know  this: 
every  time  we  have  disregarded  and 
set  at  naught  the  commandments  of 
Almighty  God,  we  have  paid  for  it. 
We  must  learn,  if  it  must  needs  be  by 
the  things  we  suffer.  By  and  by  the 
Saints  will  prove  to  all  concerned  that 
this  principle  of  tithing  is  dear  to  them, 
and  they  will  surely  fulfill  to  the  very 
letter  what  God  has  called  upon  them 
to  do. 

In  a  little  time  you  will  hear  some- 
thing like  this:  "Well,  the  'Mormons' 
are  moving  again.  They  are  leaving 
Utah,  Nevada,  Arizona,  New  Mexico, 
Old  Mexico,  Wyoming,  Idaho  and  all 
these  places  wherever  they  are  located, 
and  they  are  having  another  exodus." 
Where  are  they  going?  Why,  you  will 
find  out  that  it  will  be  a  pretty  strong 
company  going  down  to  Jackson  coun- 
ty, Missouri,  to  redeem  and  build  up 
Zion,  but  the  word  will  go  forth  that 
the  "Mormons"  are  having  another 
exodus.    The  people  will  sav  that  we 


are  going  down  to  inhabit  this  land  of 
Missouri,  and  "we  are  willing  they 
should."  Some  that  are  afar  off  may 
howl,  but  the  people  mostly  interested 
will  be  glad  to  see  the  "Mormons"  re- 
turn to  that  land  and  build  it  up. 
Some  will  say  "We  have  been  upon 
that  land  and  it  has  proved  a  land  of 
death  unto  us."  They  will  have  suf- 
fered the  full  force  of  that  desolating 
sickness  which  will  cover  the  land,  even 
in  Jackson  county,  Missouri.  But  when 
our  leader  calls  upon  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  that  are  worthy 
to  move  down  there,  the  land  will  be 
prepared  for  the  Latter-day  Saints— 
not  "Mormons."  Those  who  go  to 
Jackson  county  in  that  day  will  be  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  The  "Mormons"  will 
be  left  in  Utah,  with  enough  Latter-day 
Saints  to  control  them. 

I  will  tell  you  what  is  in  my  heart. 
We  are  preparing  this  day  in  our  man- 
hood for  the  most  glorious  epoch  that 
has  ever  come  to  man  upon  the  earth. 
If  you  do  not  feel  in  your  hearts  that 
this  is  the  most  glorious  day  that  we 
ever  witnessed  on  this  earth,  then  you 
do  not  feel  as  I  do.  I  feel  that  there  is 
more  of  the  spirit  of  God,  more  wisdom, 
more  knowledge,  more  light,  more  in- 
telligence and  a  better  union  among 
those  that  are  Latter-day  Saints  than 
I  ever  witnessed  in  my  life.  I  bear 
you  my  testimony  that  the  providences 
of  God  have  been  with  this  people,  and 
the  scenes  that  will  come  before  us  will 
be  such  that  we  will  need  all  the  power 
and  all  the  union  that, we  can  get  to 
stand  and  accomplish  His  work.  Now 
is  the  accepted  time  to  thrust  in  our 
sickles  and  reap  that  which  has  been 
sown  among  us  and  which  is  now  ripe. 
It  was  sown  in  1838;  it  is  ripe  today. 
That  revelation  is  ripe  and  the  fulfill- 
ment of  it  is  ripe.  We  are  now  in  our 
manhood,  when  we  can  receive  and  act 
upon  it  without  question.  God  will 
bear  us  off  victorious  and  we  can  smile 
like  Him  who  sits  in  the  heavens  and 
laughs,  for  we  are  told  that  He  shall 
have  the  wicked  in  derision,  and  this 
people  will  smile  to  see  the  fruitless  ef- 
forts of  those  who  would  retard  the 
progress  of  the  work.  They  may  have 
been  successful  sometimes  in  the  past 
for  a  little  season,  but  through  it  all 
they  have  seen  us  grow  until  we  have 


ELDER  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN 


7 


now  arrived  to  our  full  manhood. 
Thank  God  we  see  this  day.  God  bless 
you  and  all  who  are  interested 
in  this  work,  is  my  humble  prayer,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  F.  M.  LYMAN. 

The  Spirit  of  God  the  source  of  Union— Why  the 
Saints  are  a  peculiar  people— The  coming  of 
Christ  and  Redemption  of  Zion— Necessity  for 
preparation. 

While  I  attempt  to  speak  to  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  I  trust  I  mav  be 
able  to  make  you  hear,  and  that  by  the 
aid  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  we  may 
feel  encouraged  and  strengthened  in  our 
faith.  We  meet  together  frequently  as 
a  Church  in  general  conference  for  the 
transaction  of  business  and  to  receive 
the  word  of  the  Lord.  We  have  the 
ancient  Scriptures  and  we  have  the 
modern  Scriptures,  and  scriptures  are 
being  made  now,  as  has  always  been 
the  case  when  the  Lord  has  had  His 
Church  upon  the  earth,  with  the  living 
oracles;  for  when  they  speak  by  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Holy  Ghost,  what  they 
say  is  scripture.  We  are  entitled  to 
know  individually  whether  our  brethren 
speak  to  us  the  truth,  for  it  is  our 
privilege  to  enjoy  the  same  Spirit  that 
they  speak  by.  This  is  the  power  that 
binds  the  Latter-day  Saints  together, 
and  that  holds  us  to  our  obligations 
and  covenants  with  the  Lord  and  with 
each  other.  We  are  not  held  by  threats, 
nor  by  fear,  but  by  love — the  love  of 
the  Gospel,  which  has  been  planted  in 
our  hearts  and  has  been  growing  with 
the  people  for  these  seventy  years.  We 
have  become  a  pretty  well  trained  peo- 
ple, and  four-fifths  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  I  believe,  are  doing 
tolerably  well,  and  I  believe 
that  the  one-fifth  that  are  care- 
less in  some  things,  are  perhaps  labor- 
ing fairly  well  in  others.  There  will 
no  doubt  be  Quite  a  percentage  of  the 
people  that  will  not  be  found  num- 
bered among  the  wise. 

While  listening  to  Brother  Brigham 
Young  and  to  President  Snow,  the  para, 
ble  put  forth  by  our  Savior,  as  re- 
corded in  the  25th  chapter  of  Matthew, 
was  presented  to  my  mind,  and  I 
thought  to  read  it,  that  we  might  be 
brought  to  consider  by  its  examination 
whether  we  are  numbered  among  the 
wise    or    among    the    foolish.  This 


is  a  very  important  matter; 
for  if  we  travel  along 
with  this  Church  for  twenty 
years,  for  thirty,  forty  or  fifty  years, 
and  then  at  the  last  find  that  we  have 
failed  to  save  our  souls  and  that  we  are 
among  the  foolish,  it  will  be  very  un- 
profitable to  us.  As  President  Snow  has 
said,  we  are  gathered  together  for  the 
building  up  of  the  kingdom  of  God  up- 
on the  earth,  and  there  is  some  reason 
why  we  should  be  thus  gathered;  why 
we  should  take  upon  us  the  obligations 
that  we  have;  why  we  should  endure 
the  hardships  that  we  have;  why  we 
should,  among  all  the  denominations  on 
the  earth,  be  singled  out  for  the  despis- 
ing of  all  people,  and  why  this  condi- 
tion should  stay  with  us  and  follow  us 
in  preference  to  any  other  people  in 
the  world.  We  are  a  small  people,  not 
very  important  in  numbers  nor  in 
wealth,  and  yet  every  little  while  some- 
thing occurs  that  creates  quite  a  furore 
in  regard  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  The 
whole  world  becomes  agitated  and  in  a 
ferment  over  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
and  there  is  trouble  in  the  hearts  of 
many  people  for  fear  the  Latter-day 
Saints  will  do  something  very  wrong. 
What  is  the  matter?  Are  the  Latter- 
day  Saint©  minding  the  business  of  any 
other  denomination?  Are  we  troubling 
ourselves  particularly  about  our  breth- 
ren who  have  other  forms  of  religion? 
Are  we  excited  and  worried  over  them? 
Do  we  combine  together  with  some 
other  people  in  order  to  look  after  the 
morality  and  purity,  or  the  immorality 
and  corruption  of  other  people?  How 
carefully  the  Latter-day  Saints  attend 
to  their  own  business!  And  is  it  not  a 
proper  thing  for  the  Latter-day  Saints 
to  take  care  of  themselves,  their  own 
morality  and  honesty?  Shall  we  not 
give  attention  to  our  own  affairs,  and 
are  we  not  just  about  of  the  same  ma- 
terial, the  same  kind  of  people,  as  our 
other  religious  brethren?  Have  we  not 
come  from  among  other  denominations? 
Have  we  not  been  gathered  from  among 
the  Catholics,  the  Presbyterians,  the 
Methodists,  the  Baptists,  the  Congrega- 
tionalists  and  the  Christians,  as  well  as 
the  infidels?  Now,  have  we  gone 
to  these  various  denominations 
and  gathered  the  very  worst  of  them? 
Have  we  ever  advertised  in  our  peri- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


odicals  and  In  our  preaching  and  labors, 
publicly  or  privately — have  we  ever  bid 
for  the  bad  Methodists,  the  bad  Presby- 
terians, the  bad  infidels?  Have  we 
ever  promised  them  an  easy  way  of  sal- 
vation? Have  we  done  any  of  these 
things,  or  have  we  gone  to  the  world 
conscientiously  and  honestly  and  laid 
before  them  the  offer  of  life  and  salva- 
tion on  consistent  and  Christian  terms? 
Have  we  ever  promised  anybody  that 
they  could  be  saved  in  their  sins?  Have 
we  ever  asked  anybody  to  come  into 
this  Church  without  repentance,  with- 
out reformation,  without  honesty,  with- 
out virtue?  Have  we  entered  into  a 
compact  with  anybody  to  be  corrupt? 
Have  we  promised  them  immunity  from 
the  punishment  of  the  law  if  they 
transgressed  the  law?  Do  we  cover  up 
their  sins  and  hide  them?  Are  we  do- 
ing that?  Are  Bishops,  Presidents  of 
Stakes,  Presidents  of  quorums,  Elders, 
High  Priests  and  Seventies  asking  the 
corrupt  and  wicked  from  among  the 
nations  of  the  earth  to  come  to  us  and 
we  will  shield  them  in  their  corruption, 
in  their  adulteries,  their  fornications, 
their  thieving  and  their  dishonesty? 
"Why  no.  But  we  have  presented  to 
the  world  a  very  startling  and  re- 
markable work,  a  work  that  requires 
repentance  and  reformation.  And  when 
repentance  has  been  complied  with,  in 
order  that  that  repentance  may  be 
genuine  and  the  forgiveness  of  sins  con- 
tinue, it  must  be  eternal.  It  is  not 
enough  for  men  to  repent  in  order  to 
come  into  the  Church,  and  then  do  as 
they  please,  but  their  repentance  must 
be  perpetual;  it  must  not  need  to  be 
repented  of.  If  a  man  has  been  a  thief 
and  ceases  to  steal,  he  must  continue 
to  refrain  from  his  larcenies.  If  a  man 
has  been  a  liar,  a  deceiver,  or  currupt 
in  any  degree  whatever,  it  is  required  of 
him  m  this  Church  that  he  must 
cease  forever.  If  he  should  live 
a  hundred  years,  he  would  not 
live  long  enough  to  have  any  de- 
gree of  allowance  shown  to  him  for 
transgression  because  of  his  age,  but 
the  older  men  are  the  better  they  must 
be.  I  think  that  is  reasonable;  for  the 
oldest  of  all  whom  we  have  ever  heard 
of  is  said  to  be  good  and  the  only  one 
that  is  entirely  good — our  Father  who 
is  in  heaven.    I  say  the  father  should 


be  better  than  the  son,  the  n. other 
should  be  better  than  the  daughter,  and 
this  Church  has  now  arrived  at  the 
full  ripe  age  of  three  score  and  ten. 
What  shall  we  do  who  have  been  en- 
trusted with  the  holy  Priesthood?  Can 
we  afford  to  be  indifferent  and  care- 
less? We  are  now  seventy  years  near- 
er to  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man 
than  we  were  when  the  Prophet  Jos- 
eph, under  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  organized  this  Church.  After- 
this  extended  experience,  can  we  not 
well  afford  to  be  good,  conscientious 
and  honest  with  the  Lord.  Can  we  not 
afford  to  make  our  repentance  and  re- 
formation genuine  from  this  time  forth, 
believing  that  the  coming  of  the  Son  of 
Man,  the  redemption  of  Zion  and  the 
fulfillment  of  the  purposes  of  the  Lord 
are  at  our  door? 

Can  we  not  afford  to  do  this  now,  so 
that  when  the  Bridegroom  comes  we 
shall  be  prepared  to  meet  Him;  for 
He  will  come;  he  has  always  come 
when  he  has  promised.  He  has  visited 
the  earth  in  this  dispensation  and  has 
established  his  authority  and  power 
among  men,  and  the  Millennium,  the 
reign  of  righteousness,  is  to  be  ushered 
in;  and  it  is  liable  to  come  in  our  day. 
The  redemption  of  Zion  is  also  liable 
to  come  in  our  day.  There  is  doubtless 
a  set  time  for  the  redemption  of  Zion 
and  for  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man. 
The  time  has  not  been  made  known  to 
us,  and  is  not  likely  to  be,  until  He 
comes.  It  would  hardly  be  fair  for  the 
Presidency,  the  Twelve,  and  the  presid- 
ing brethren  to  know  the  very  time  of 
His  coming,  so  that  they  could  be  pre- 
pared, and  let  the  people  be  indifferent 
and  careless.  The  coming  of  the  Son  of 
Man  will  be  as  much  ,of  a  surprise  to 
the  presiding  brethren  as  to 
any  others.  That  is,  it  will 
occur  when  they  are  not  looking  for  it 
particularly.  "We  hope  to  be  prepared, 
and  we  hope  the  people  will  be  pre- 
pared, but  it  will  come  suddenly,  and 
you  will  know  it  as  soon  as  we  know  it. 
We  have  the  Spirit  of  that  coming,  and 
the  Spirit  of  the  redemption  of  Zion. 
We  have  the  Spirit  that  indicates  that 
in  the  near  future  the  Lord  will  appear. 

Hence,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  has  been 
very  powerfully  upon  President  Snow 
and  his  brethren,  and  they  have  been 


ELDER  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN. 


9 


led  to  urge  upon  the  people  the  import- 
ance of  reformation,  not  alone  in  the 
law  of  tithing,  but  in  every  other  prin- 
ciple of  the  Gospel.  Tithing  alone  is 
not  enough.  It  will  yield  its  measure 
of  oil  and  light,  and  of  inspiration  and 
power,  to  those  who  observe  that  law. 
But  if  we  are  non-prayers,  non-partak- 
ers of  the  Sacrament;  if  we  are  not 
found  doing  by  others  that  we  would 
that  others  should  do  by  us;  if  we  are 
not  honest  and  virtuous,  the  fact  of 
our  being  tithe-payers  will  not  be 
enough  to  save  us.  But  it  is  pretty  well 
discovered  and  understood  that  if  men 
can  stand  the  test  of  the  law  of  tith- 
ing, which  appeals  to  our  wealth,  they 
will  be  able  to  make  other  sacrifices  as. 
well;  for  there  is  a  strength  and  a' 
power  which  comes  in  answer  to  our 
fulfillment  of  this  law  that  will  enable 
us  to  do  other  things  much  less  diffi- 
cult. There  are  many  things  less  diffi- 
cult than  the  payment  of  tithing.  In 
our  fallen  condition,  being  of  the 
earth  earthy,  we  love  the  things  of  this 
world,  and  it  is  a  most  difficult  thing 
for  some  of  us  to  meet  this  requirement 
of  the  Lord.  There  is  quite  a  percen- 
tage of  the  brethren  who  have  received 
the  Priesthood,  as  well  as  members  of 
the  Church,  who  ought  to  be  tithe- 
payers  and  are  not.  I  want  to  ask  any 
man  upon  whom  I  have  ever  laid  my 
hands  and  conferred  authority  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus;  I  want  to  ask 
any  brother  who  has  ever  had  the 
hands  of  the  servants  of  God 
laid  upon  his  head,  to  con- 
fer the  Priesthood  of  God 
upon  him,  can  you  reconcile  your  course 
of  life,  if  you  neglect  to  furnish  the 
revenue  necessary  for  the  building  up 
of  the  kingdom  of  God  on  the  earth? 
Can  you  justify  yourself  in  this?  I 
want  the  High  Priest,  the  Seventy  and 
the  Elder  to  come  to  me  as  an  individ- 
ual and  show  to  me  his  philosophy  and 
reasoning  as  to  how  he  can  conscien- 
tiously hold  the  Priesthood  of  God  and 
yet  decline  to  meet  the  obligations  that 
belong  to  that  Priesthood.  I  believe 
that  there  is  no  man  in  this  Church  en- 
titled to  the  holy  Priesthood  who  will 
not  magnify  it.  I  believe  the  Lord  re- 
quires it  of  every  Deacon,  every  Teach- 
er, every  Priest,  every  Elder,  every 
High  Priest,  every  Seventy,  every  Pa- 


triarch, every  Bishop,  President,  etc. 
And  we  .will  not  always  be  tolerated 
with  the  authority  of  God  unless  we  do 
honor  it.  We  will  be  found  among  the 
foolish,  lacking  oil  in  our  lamps  and  be- 
ing unprepared  for  the  coming  of  the 
Son  of  Man,  unless  we  attend  faithfully 
to  these  duties. 

Is  a  man  justified  in  this  church  who 
fails  to  partake  of  the  Sacrament  when 
the  opportunity  is  offered?  Is  a  man 
justified  who  does  not  bow  his  knee  be- 
fore the  Lord  daily,  and  who  forgets  the 
Lord  in  secret  prayer?  I  think  not.  I 
believe  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are 
required  to  meet  all  these  obligations 
and  to  be  as  honest  with  their  brethren 
as  they  are  required  to  be  honest  with 
the  Lord.  It  is  not  enough  for  us  to 
pretend  to  be  honest  with  the  Lord,  and 
not  be  honest  with  our  brethren. 
We  cannot  be  honest  enough 
with  our  Father  in  heaven  to  justify  us 
in  being  dishonest  with  our  brethren. 
We  must  meet  our  obligations  to  our 
brethren,  to  our  families,  to  the  world. 
We  must  deal  honestly  and  conscien- 
tiously in  all  these  things.  If  we  do 
not.the  spirit  of  the  Lord  will  withdraw 
from  us,  and  when  the  spirit  of  the 
Lord  withdraws  from  us,  we  complain, 
we  find  fault,  we  are  not  happy,  and  we 
are  not  satisfied.  We  cannot  afford 
to  sacrifice  the  presence  of  the 
spirit  of  the  Lord,  because  we  cannot 
be  Latter-day  Saints  unless  we  enjoy  it 
and  are  directed  by  it  constantly.  It 
seems  to  be  a  difficult  thing  to  do  to 
meet  our  temporal  obligations  to  the 
Lord.  Our  hearts  are  naturally  set  up- 
on the  things  of  this  world.  We  can 
see  temporal  blessings  a  little  plainer 
than  we  can  see  the  spiritualities  of  the 
kingdom,  for  they  are  here  before  us, 
and  we  enjoy  them.  We  are  inclined 
to  gather  the  things  of  this  world 
around  us  and  to  treasure  them  up, 
while  the  spiritual  things,  and  eternal 
life  with  our  families  and  friends  here- 
after, pertain  to  the  future.  They  are 
a  little  ahead  of  us,  and  if  we  do  not 
have  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  strongly  in 
our  hearts,  there  is  more  or  less  a  ques- 
tion of  doubt  and  misgiving  about 
them.  All  these  things,  however,  van- 
ish when  we  discharge  the  duties  that 
devolve  upon  us  as  Latter-day  Saints. 
And  we  expect  to  look  after  every  man, 


1(1 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


through  the  Presidents,  the  Bishops, 
and  the  Apostles,  and  see  to  it  that  all 
who  have  been  entrusted  with  the  au- 
thority and  power  of  God,  shall  come  to 
the  mark  and  do  their  duties  faithfully 
and  well,  that  they  with  their  families 
may  be  saved.  We  want  you  to  be 
saved;  but  if  you  do  not  want  the  sal- 
vation that  is  offered  through  the  Gos- 
pel of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  why  make 
the  profession  that  you  do?  There  is 
no  salvation  in  professions  alone,  or  in 
promises  and  covenants,  nor  is  there 
any  salvation  in  the  blessings  that  are 
put  upon  us  under  the  hands  of  the  ser- 
vants of  God,  unless  we  do  the  will  of 
God.  I  want  to  bear  that  testimony  to 
this  people,  and  ask  that  from  this  time 
forward  we  serve  the  Lord  with  all  our 
hearts,  so  that  when  the  Son  of  Man 
appears  upon  the  earth,  we  will  be 
numbered  among  the  wise  virgins  of 
my  text — which  I  have  not  read;  you 
can  hunt  it  for  yourselves. 

We  feel  encouraged  in  our  labors,  al- 
though we  are  all  the  time  trying  to 
stir  the  people  up.  Yet  in  our  coun- 
cils the  Lord  has  manifested  to  us 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are 
improving,  that  they  are  gaining 
strength  and  power,  increasing  in  num- 
bers, spreading  abroad  and  becoming 
more  firmly  established  on  the  earth, 
and  that  prosperity  and  success  are  at- 
tending upon  them.  The  best  days  that 
we  have  ever  had  are  the  days  in  which 
we  live  now.  The  kingdom  is  the  Lord's 
and  He  will  take  care  of  it.  It  is  our 
business,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
see  that  we  take  care  of  ourselves.  The 
Lord  will  take  care  of  the  Kingdom, 
and  no  power  on  earth  can  prevail 
against  it.  As  suggested  this  morning, 
if  it  was  secure  when  it  was  organized 
seventy  years  ago,  with  only  six  mem- 
bers, what  shall  we  say  of  it  when 
it  numbers  over  a  quarter  of  a  million? 
We  certainly  feel  encouraged.  We  feel 
as  though  we  were  on  the  Lord's  side, 
and  that  the  Lord  is  on  our  side.  We 
know  He  is,  for  He  talks  to  us  and 
directs  us  in  all  things  pertaining  to 
this  Kingdom.  He  sustains  His  ser- 
vant the  Prophet,  and  magnifies  him 
in  the  eyes  of  the  people.  The  will  of 
God  is  known,  and  the  keys  and  au- 
thority of  God  are  always  present.  The 
Lord  has  established  His  work,  and 


He  will  preserve  it..  God  bless  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  may  Hi» 
Spirit  fill  >ur  hearts,  that  we  may  re- 
joice exceedingly  in  this  conference,  is 
my  prayer  through  Jesus  Christ,  our 
Lord.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 
"Jesus,  I  my  cross  have  taken." 

Benediction  by  Elder  Seymour  B. 
Young. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  which  begins: 

We  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet 

To  guide  us  in  these  latter  days; 
We  thank  Thee  for  sending  the  Gospel, 

To  lighten  our  minds  with  Its  rays. 

Opening  prayer  by  Elder  George 
Reynolds. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn  which  be- 
gins: 

High  on  the  mountain  top 

A  banner  is  unfurled; 
Ye  nations  now  look  up, 

It  waves  to  all  the  world. 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 

Why  Ihe  Saints  are  interested  in  current  events— 
Th"ir  gathering  a  phenomenal  movement — 
Kiv.^rence  for  the  authority  of  God. 

The  presence  of  such  a  large  congre- 
gation makes  one  feel  the  necessity  of 
having  some  aid  other  than  human  to 
enable  the  speaker  to  instruct  and  edi- 
fy so  many  souls.  I  have  that  feeling 
this  afternoon.  It  is  an  impressive  sight 
to  look  from  this  stand  on  this  large 
body  of  people,  all  gathered  here  for  the 
purpose  of  being  fed  and  instructed  in 
the  ways  of  the  Lord,  many  having  left 
their  homes  probably  hundreds  of  miles 
distant  to  come  to  this  conference,  and 
in  so  doing  having  the  right  to  expect 
that  they  will  receive  something  from 
the  Lord  to  compensate  them  for  the 
time  and  labor  which  they  have  ex- 
pended, in  the  journey.  This  being  the 
case.  I  for  one  am  deeply  impressed 
with  the  importance  of  saying  some- 
thing, by  the  help  of  the  Lord,  that  will 
be  a  benefit  to  all  of  us.  Without  the 
spirit  of  God,  I  know  it  is  useless  to  at- 
tempt to  speak  to  the  people;  but  we 
are  promised  that  if  we  come  together 
as  we  have  done  today,  in  faith,  the 
Lord  will  give  us  that  which  shall  be 
profitable.  *  Every  conference  that  we 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CAN  A  ON. 


11 


hold  in  this  house  seems  more  important 
than  the  preceding  one.  Our  circum- 
stances are  constantly  changing;  we 
are  passing  through  different  scenes, 
and  the  events  which  take  place  shape 
themselves  in  such  a  manner  as  to  call 
forth  deep  reflections  on  our  part. 

I  suppose  there  is  no  community  up- 
on the  face  of  the  earth  that  is  so  in- 
terested in  that  which  is  taking  place 
in  the  world  as  the  Latter-day  Saints 
are.  All  the  people  take  great  inter- 
est in  that  which  transpires  in  our 
own  nation  and  in  foreign 
nations.  We  are  interested  spec- 
tators of  public  events.  The 
wars,  the  commotions,  the  revolutions 
among  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  and 
also  the  elemental  disturbances  that  oc- 
cur, are  -all  noticed  by  us,  because  in 
our  minds  they  have  a  bearing  on  the 
great  future  that  lies  before  the  earth 
and  the  inhabitants  thereof.  If  there  is 
an  earthquake,  if  there  is  a  famine, 
if  there  is  a  wave  sweeping  over  some 
portion  of  the  earth,  if  there  are 
cyclones  and  disturbances  in  the  at- 
mosphere, if  there  are  pestilences  and 
plagues,  if  there  are  wars  and  con- 
tentions, they  all  attract  our  atten- 
tion, because  we  are  expecting  calami- 
ties of  this  character.  We  have  been 
gathered  together  from  the  nations  of 
the  earth,  and  for  a  definite  purpose. 
The  men  and  women  who  have  left 
their  native  land  and  come  to  these 
mountains  have  not  made  the  journey 
in  vain.  They  would  be  very  much 
surprised  if  there  were  not  occurrences 
which  would  in  their  estimation  justify 
them  in  having  taken  this  journey.  So 
far  they  have  not  been  disappointed. 
There  are  very  few  Latter-day  Saints 
who  regret  the  step  they  took  in  leav- 
ing their  native  land.  They  see  ample 
justification  for  their  action.  If  they 
are  true  to  their  religion  especially, 
they  feel  that  they  have  been  amply 
repaid  for  coming  here  by  the  blessings 
which  they  have  received.  No  doubt 
this  will  be  the  case  more  and  more, 
because  Zion  is  to  be  a  place  of  safety. 
The  words  of  the  prophets  concerning 
Zion  and  the  last  days  will  be  literally 
fulfilled,  and  all  that  has  prompted  this 
mighty  movement  among  the  different 
nations  of  the  earth  will  be  made  plain. 
I  think  it  one  of  the  greatest  phenome- 


na that  has  ever  been  witnessed  among 
mankind,  the  gathering  together  of 
these  hundreds  of  thousands  of  people 
from  the  far  distant  lands  where  they 
lived.  It  is  unprecedented  in  history; 
it  is  marvelous  in  its  execution,  and  it 
is  one  of  the  world's  great  movements. 
In  years  to  come  it  will  be  regarded 
as  one  of  the  phenomenal  movements 
of  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth. 

We  have  come  to  this  conference  for 
the  purpose  of  hearing  the  word  of  the 
Lord.  I  believe  before  we  separate  we 
shall  be  abundantly  satisfied,  and  feel 
that  the  Lord  has  been  with  us.  There 
are  a  great  many  subjects  that  may  be 
talked  about.  The  field  is  vast,  because 
the  instructions  that  we  receive  here  are 
intended  to  cover  the  whole  life  of  the 
Latter-day  Saint. 

We  have  heard  this  morning  a  good 
many  instructions  that  have  been  valu- 
able, and  I  can  bear  testimony  to  the 
truth  of  them.  This  is  a  mighty  work, 
and  it  is  achieving  mighty  results.  The 
brethren  spoke  this  morning  about  our 
union,  and  praised  it.  Well,  we  are  very 
united  in  some  things;  but  in  my  opin- 
ion we  are  far  from  being  the  united 
people  we  should  be.  My  mind  of  late 
has  dwelt  considerably  upon  the  want 
of  reverence  there  is  among  us  for  the 
Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God.  Now,  I 
may  say  some  things  in  this  connection 
that  may  not  be  suitable  in  the  opinion 
of  some;  but  I  have  strong  feelings  on 
this  subject.  I  have  felt  that  too  much 
reverence  can  not  be  shown  to  the 
Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God.  I  think  it 
has  been  a  characteristic^  of  my  life  to 
entertain  extreme  reverence  for  the 
men  who  bear  the  Priesthood.  I  had 
this  feeling  when  a  boy,  in  the  days  of 
Joseph.  To  me  Joseph  was  perfect.  I 
could  not  see,  and  I  did  not  hear  any- 
thing that  ever  made  any  impression 
upon  me  to  the  contrary.  It  was  so  with 
my  feeling  for  President  Young.  I 
was  intimately  associated  with  him  the 
last  twelve  years  of  his  life.  I  saw  him 
in  private  and  in  public.  I  saw  him 
when  he  laid  aside,  it  might  be  said, 
his  reserve  and  would  unbend  and  talk 
with  familiarity.  There  was  one  fea- 
ture in  his  character  that  won  my  ad- 
miration, and  I  have  not  lost  it  to  this 
day — I  never  heard  President  Young 
utter  an  expression  that  would  weaken 


♦ 

12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


anybody's  respect  for  the  Prophet 
Joseph.  He  admired  him;  he  looked 
upon  him  as  the  Prophet  of  God,  as  he 
was.  I  do  not  think  that  anyone  else 
ever  heard  an  expresssion  from  him 
that  would  tend  in  any  manner  to 
weaken  respect,  or  reverence,  or  love 
for  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  ad- 
mired that  in  his  character.  And 
though  I  was  closely  associat- 
ed with  him,  I  never  saw  a  fault 
in  Brigham  Young.  I  expect  many 
would  think  this  very  foolish  in  me,  and 
that  I  must  have  been  very  blind.  Per- 
haps I  was;  at  any  rate,  I  wanted  to 
be.  I  never  wanted  to  see  his  faults. 
I  think  it  was  Pope  who  said: 

"Be  to  her  faults  a  little  blind, 
And  to  her  virtues  over  kind." 

That  was  the  feeling  I  had  concerning 
President  Young.  I  wanted  to  be  blind 
to  the  faults  of  the  man  of  God.  I 
knew  he  was  a  fallible  man,  a  human 
being;  but  I  did  not  want  to  sit  in 
judgment  upon  him,  nor  to  criticise  his 
words  and  acts.  To  me  he  was  God's 
servant.  God  had  chosen  him  out  of 
all  the  men  on  earth  to  hold  the  keys — 
that  power,  awful  in  tsome  respects, 
which  God  commits  to  one  man  on 
earth  at  a  time.  He  had  chosen  him, 
and  who  was  I  that  I  should  sit  in 
judgment  upon  him  and  criticise  him? 
I  never  felt  as  though  I  dared  do  it. 
I  never  had  the  disposition  to  do  it. 

The  Lord  took  him,  and  He  gave  us 
another  man  to  hold  the  same  authori- 
ty, to  occupy  the  same  position,  to  ex- 
ercise the  same  powers;  and  I  felt  to- 
wards him  as  I  did  towards  Brother 
Brigham.  I  knew  him  intimately  al- 
so; had  known  him,  I  may  say,  all  my 
life;  but  during  his  presidency  over  the 
Church  we  were  thrown  very  closely 
together,  because  we  both  had  to  go  in 
to  exile.  I  might  repeat  the  same  in 
regard  to  Wilford  Woodruff,  who  suc- 
ceeded President  Taylor.  I  knew  these 
men  as  intimately  as  one  man  could 
know  another,  and  I  can  only  say  this: 
more  angelic  characters,  men  of  sweet- 
er dispositions,  I  do  not  believe  ever 
lived.  They  were  men  who  were  as 
perfect  as  human  beings  could  be.  They 
loved  God  supremely.  They  loved  their 
Priesthood  and  the  cause  of  God  with 
all  their  hearts.  They  would  have 
been  willing,  if  necessary,  to  have  laid 


down  their  lives  at  any  time  for  the 
truth. 

This  is  my  testimony  concerning  these 
men.  We  have  probably  heard  all 
sorts  of  stories  about  them  dur- 
ing their  lifetime,  particularly 
about  President  Young.  In  his 
lifetime  he  was  maligned,  and  perhaps 
many  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  believed 
the  malicious  and  malignant  stories 
that  were  told  concerning  him;  but  this 
is  my  testimony  this  day  in  the  pres- 
ence of  these  assembled  thousands,  that 
a  more  perfect  man  than  President 
Young  I  never  knew.  So  I  may  say  of 
his  two  successors. 

Now  we  have  a  man  who  has  taken 
the  same  place,  by  selection  and  ap- 
pointment of  the  Almighty — President 
Lorenzo  Snow.  He  is  a  man  who  has 
proved  himself  through  long  years  of 
fidelity  to  the  work  of  God.  He  stands 
here  in  our  midst  as  the  Prophet  of 
God,  the  man  holding  the  keys,  the  man 
who  can  bind  on  earth  and  it  will  be 
bound  in  heaven,  the  man  who  can  loose 
on  earth  and  it  will  be  loosed  in 
heaven,  the  man  who  has  the  power 
(which,  however,  he  exercises  very 
rarely,  if  at  all)  to  forgive  sins,  to  curse 
and  they  shall  be  cursed,  to  bless  and 
they  shall  be  blessed.  I  have  said  it  is 
an  awful  power.  It  is;  and  it  ought  to 
be  and  is  exercised  with  the  greatest 
care  and  discrimination.  God  has  chos- 
en this  man;  He  has  delivered  him 
from  perils  and  from  death,  and  has 
brought  him  at  his  present  age  to  be 
the  President  of  His  Church.  Had  He 
a  purpose  in  this?  Undoubtedly  He  had. 
God  foreknew  who  should  hold  the 
keys  after  Wilford  Woodruff  passed 
away,  and  he  selected  this  man— as  per- 
fect a  man,  as  far  as  we  know,  as  far 
as  fidelity  to  the  truth  and  willingness 
to  submit  to-  anything,  even  to  death 
if  necessary  for  the  truth— to  hold  the 
same  posiion  and  to  exercise  the  same 
authority.  Are  we  as  bearers  of  the 
holy  Priesthood  and  as  members  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  aware  of  this?  Are  we  con- 
scious that  God  has  chosen  this  man  to 
be  His  mouth-piece  unto  us,  and  to 
stand  in  the  stead  of  the  Lord  Jesus  to 
His  Church  upon  the  earth?  Do  we 
take  this  into  consideration?  I  am 
sorry  to  say  that  I  do  not  believe  many 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON 


13 


of  the  Elders  do  this.  I  judge  this  by 
their  conduct,  by  their  want  of  rever- 
ence and  respect,  by  their  lack  of  obed- 
ience, and  by  an  absence  of  a  disposi- 
tion to  ask  for  and  to  be  governed  by 
the  counsel  of  God. 

I  leave  you  my  brethren  and  sisters 
to  judge  whether  I  am  too  severe  in  my 
expressions  upon  this  point.  I  tell  you' 
that  there  never  was  in  this  Church, 
within  my  recollection,  such  an  absence 
of  respect  and  reverence  for  the  au- 
thority of  God  as  there  is  now  among 
this  people.  I  believe  I  am  justified  in 
saying  this  by  the  facts,  and  that  the 
proof  of  this  statement  is  within  reach. 
Why  is  it?  Many  men  seem  to  think 
that  their  way  is  better  than  any  one's 
else;  and  though  we  believe  and  testify 
that  God  has  a  Prophet  in  our  midst, 
,  through  whom  we  can  get  the  word  of 
the  Lord,  we  despise  that  word,  so 
much  so  at  least  that  we  will  not  ask 
for  it,  for  fear  we  should  be  told  some- 
thing that  does  not  agree  with  our  feel- 
ings and  with  that  which  we  desire  to 
accomplish.  I  tell  you,  as  sure  as  God 
lives,  there  will  have  to  be  a  change 
in  this  respect,  or  some  men  will  go  to 
hell.     God  will  not  put  up  with  it. 

We  have  come  here  today  to  hear  the 
word  of  God,  and  I  am  going  to  tell  you 
what  I  think,  if  I  do  offend  you.  As 
a  servant  of  God,  I  want  to  warn  you 
of  the  danger  you  are  in  and  of  the  con- 
sequences of  the  spirit  that  is  being 
yielded  to.  I  would  no  more  dare  to  do 
anything  of  an  important  character 
without  consulting  the  man  of  God 
than  I  would  think  of  putting  my  hand 
in  the  fire,  especially  to  do  something 
that  I  knew  he  felt  differently  about  to 
what  I  did.  As  I  have  said,  God  has 
chosen  him  to  stand  where  de  does — not 
you  or  me;  and  He  knows  every  secret 
thought  of  men's  hearts.  His  all- 
piercing  eye  has  penetrated  the  inner- 
most recesses  of  his  heart,  and 
he  has  seen  all  there  is  about 
him,  inside  and  out.  He  knows  him 
thoroughly,  because  he  created  him.  He 
knew  his  past  history,  he  knows  his 
present  history,  He  knows  his  fu- 
ture history.  And  knowing  this, 
he  has  chosen  him.  What  can 
we  do  better  than  to  show  respect  to 
our  God  by  listening  to  His  servant, 
by  treating  him  with  reverence,  asking 


his  counsel  and  seeking  for  his  guid- 
ance? I  know  we  pray  to  God  for  him,, 
that  he  may  be  inspired  from  on  high. 
Do  you  believe  your  prayers?  Do  you 
believe  that  God  will  and  does  inspire 
him?  I  hope  you  do;  and  I  hope  that 
having  this  feeling,  you  will  be  prompt- 
ed to  different  action.  Men  may  talk 
as  they  please  about  one  man  power, 
and  they  may  fight  us  and  seek  to  des- 
troy us  because  we  listen  to  the  man 
of  God,  but  the  fact  still  remains  that 
this  whole  people  are  dependent  for 
guidance,  when  they  are  guided  aright, 
upon  the  man  who  holds  the  keys.  Our 
settlement  in  these  valleys  was  due  to 
the  recognition  of  that  authority;  the 
building  of  these  settlements  through- 
out these  valleys  is  due  to  that.  And 
shall  we  say  that  in  some  things  we 
are  willing  to  be  guided;  we  think  it 
right  to  be  guided  in  matters  of  doc- 
trine, etc.;  but  in  other  matters,  just  as 
important  and  necessary  for  the  salva- 
tion and  preservation  of  this  people, 
we  are  not  willing?  Latter-day  Saints, 
you  cannot  do  it.  You  cannot  get  away 
from  this  authority  and  remain  Latter- 
day  Saints,  for  yon  sever  yourselves 
from  the  Church  of  God,  because  every- 
thing you  have  is  based  on  the  recogni- 
tion of  this  authority. 

I  want  to  see  us  as  a  people  open  our 
eyes  to  behold  our  true  position  before 
God,  and  the  relationship  that  we  bear 
to  the  Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God.  I 
have  no  doubt  that  you  all  can  see 
the  spirit  growing  in  the  many  quarters 
to  draw  off  and  to  say — -thev  may  not 
say  it  in  these  words,  because  Lorenzo 
Snow  is  an  exceedingly  modest  man 
and  does  not  assume  anything,  and 
therefore  fault  cannot  justly  be  found 
with  him;  but  it  is  tantamount  to  say- 
ing "we  do  not  believe  that  you,  Lo- 
renzo Snow,  have  any  right  to  talk  to 
us  or  to  guide  or  counsel  us  in  these 
matters.  We  think  that  we  have  a  per- 
fect right  to  do  as  we  please." 

Well,  no  one  will  ever  question  that. 
Brother  Brigham  Young  spoke  this 
morning  about  our  free  agency.  Every 
man  and  woman  enjoys  this  gift.  But 
we  have  a  right  to  exercise  our  free 
agency  in  doing  right,  in  being  obedi- 
ent, in  listening  to  counsel  and  in  doing 
that  which  God  wants.  I  think  that  I 
am  as  much  of  a  free  agent    when  I 


14 


GENERAL  CONFER EA CE. 


obey  God  as  I  would  be  in  rebelling 
against  Him  and  obeying  Satan. 

I  feel  that  this  people  should  cultivate 
more  reverence  for  the  authority  of  the 
Priesthood— that  authority  which  has 
proved  so  great  a  blessing  to  them. 
I  would  like  to  see  them  do  it,  and 
that  is  the  burden  of  my  remarks  on 
this  occasion.  I  do  plead  with  you 
most  earnestly  to  cultivate  this  feeling 
of  reverence  for  the  Priesthood  of  the 
Son  of  God.  You  cannot  show  rever- 
ence to  the  Priesthood  without  show- 
ing it  to  the  men  who  bear  it.  Let  us 
teach  our  children  the  same  feeling, 
that  they  may  have  reverence  and  re- 
spect for  the  Priesthood,  and  be  will- 
ing to  obey,  and  not  have  a  spirit  of 
fault-finding,  carping,  and  pointing  out 
defects  of  character.  Tou  who  have 
been  in  sacred  places  know  one  thing, 
that  you  cannot  speak  evil  of  the  Lord's 
anointed  and  be  justified,  and  if  you 
break  your  covenants  in  that  respect, 
you  are  of  course  incurring  severe  con- 
demnation. 

I  pray  God  that  during  the  remainder 
of  this  Conference  we  may  be  filled  with 
His  Holy  Spirit,  and  that  His  power 
may  be  in  our  midst,  resting  upon  all 
who  speak  unto  us,  and  that  we  may 
go  away  enlightened  and  benefited  by 
our  services  here  during  the  three  days 
we  shall  be  together,  which  I  humbly 
ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 

Character  of  the  Men  who  carry  on  the  work  of  God 
— Condemnation  will  rest  upon  those  who  op- 
pose It— Importance  of  family  responsibilities 
— Value  of  the  counsels  of  the  wise. 

It  gives  me  joy  to  have  the  privilege 
of  meeting  with  you  in  conference  and 
in  listening  to  the  brethren  who  have 
spoken  unto  lis.  I  trust  that  during  the 
time  that  I  may  occupy  I  may  enjoy 
your  faith  and  good  feelings,  that  the 
promptings  of  the  Holy  Spirit  may  at- 
tend the  remarks  that  I  may  make. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  is  seventy  years  of  ase  to- 
day. President  Snow  this  morning  in 
his  remarks  dwelt  upon  the 
fact  that  we  had  passed  our 
infancy,  our  boyhood,  our  young 
manhood,  and  had  had  a  taste  at 
least  of  that  age  which  in  the  olden 
times  was  fixed  upon  as  the  allotted  age 
of  man.    In  my  reflections  on  his  re- 


marks I  was  led  to  wonder  whether  It 
could  be  Dossible  that  in  the  reaching 
of  that  mature  age  there  would  any- 
thing occur  which  should  cause  weak- 
ness to  appear  in  connection  with  the 
further  development  and  accomplish- 
ment of  the  work  assigned  to  men  in 
this  dispensation.  Our  experience  hap 
developed  that  man  sometimes  work9 
with  very  great  devotion  for  a  period 
of  his  life  in  the  accomplishment  of 
some  specific  purpose,  and  he  some- 
times reaches  a  condition  of  mind  when 
he  doubts  the  efficacy  of  his  efforts  to 
accomplish  the  purpose  he  has  had  in 
view.  Others  do  not  become  impreg- 
nated with  the  Spirit  that  actuates  him. 
They  look  in  coldness  upon  the  sugges- 
tions which  he  makes.  They  regard  his 
efforts  as  visionary,  and  that  the  re- 
sults of  his  struggles  cannot  in  any 
sense  be  what  he  himself  would  antici- 
pate; and  after  continued  effort  and 
perhaps  failure  sometimes,  he  stops  and 
becomes  seemingly  discouraged  and  un- 
willing to  proceed  further.  It  is  true, 
there  have  been  some  men  whose 
hearts,  in  the  midst  of  sunshine  or 
storm,  success  or  failure,  have  never 
cooled,  and  whose  minds  have  never  be- 
come disturbed  under  any  circum- 
stance. It  is  after  this  type  that  I  be- 
lieve the  Elders  of  the  Church  of  Jesua 
Christ  should  be  made.  That 
no  matter  what  the  conditions 
and  circumstances  are,  no  matter  what 
the  temptations  may  be,  or  what  bar- 
riers may  present  themselves  in  the 
way  of  the  accomplishment  of  a  specific 
purpose,  success  must  come. 

There  is  no  such  word  as  fail  in  con- 
nection with  this  work.  Failure  was  not 
designed  of  the  Father  when  he  visited 
this  earth  in  person,  with  His  Son,  and 
laid  upon  that  child.  Joseph  Smith,  the 
obligation  _to  teach  the  truth  among 
the  children  of  men.  He  gave  him  to 
understand  that  while  discouragements 
might  come  in  the  way,  while  brethren 
might  be  false,  while  men  and  women 
might  violate  the  ordinances  of  God's 
house  and  trample  beneath  their  feet 
the  requirements  of  heaven,  there  would 
be  found  a  body  of  men  in  connection 
with  this  work  and  its  development 
who  never  would  sacrifice  to  Baal,  but 
would  stand  in  the  midst  of  every 
storm  and  in  every  place  where  God 
Almighty    required    them    to  act,  un- 


ELDER  JOHN  HE  A  R  V  SMI1  PI. 


15 


flinchingly,  and  true  if  need  be  to  the 
giving  of  life  and  all  to  the  cause  of 
truth  as  our  Father  had  established  it. 
And  yet  we  are  possessed,  like  the  rest 
of  the  human  race,  of  our  weaknesses. 
We  are  tempted,  we  are  tried,  we  imag- 
ine many  vain  things,  but  so  far  as 
concerns  this  work  and  its  development 
and  success  in  this  world  in  the  accom- 
plishment  of  the  regeneration   of  the 
human  race,  it  will  not  fail.    "There  is 
no  such  word  as  fail  in  the  lexicon  of 
our  God."   Men  may  fail;  they  may  fail 
to  read  by  the  unerring  counsels  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  the  course  that  they  should 
pursue;  they  may  fail  to  be  loyal  sol- 
diers and  to  recognize  the  orders  that 
high  heaven  shall  give,  looking  to  the 
development  of  our  Father's  cause  in 
the  world,  but  there  will  be  found  suffi- 
cient to  meet  the  needs  and  responsi- 
bilities and  to  discharge  the  obligations 
that  the  Master  has  imposed  upon  those 
to  whom  the  sacred  message  was  deliv- 
ered   by  that    angel    who  was  to  fly 
through  the  midst  of  heaven,  having 
the  everlasting  Gospel  to  preach  to  them 
that  dwell  upon  the  earth,   to  every 
nation,  kindred,  tongue    and  people. 
Write  it  in   your   books,   establish  it 
in  your  hearts  and  fix  it  in  every  fibre 
of  your  being,  that  God  will  see  its  ac- 
complishment in  the  loyalty  and  devo- 
tion of  those  whom  He  shall  gather,  one 
at  a  time,  and  establish  among  His 
people  in  the  Church  of  Christ. 

Our  brothers  and  our  sisters  among 
the  religious  peoples  of  the  world  should 
become  after  a  time,  in  my  judgment, 
impregnated  with  this  thought,  and 
cease  the  expression  of  their  illfeelings 
and  the  application  of  improper  meth- 
ods, looking  to  the  hurt  of  this  work, 
for  the  promise  is  that  "no  weapon 
formed  against  this  work  shall  succeed 
and  they  that  arise  in  judgment  against 
it  shall  be  condemned." — not  to.  con- 
demnation that  shall  fall  from  my  lips, 
or  condemnation  that  may  fall  from  the 
lips  of  any  who  are  associated  with  the 
work  in  the  same  degree  that  I  may  be; 
but  in  that  condemnation  registered  by 
the  finger  of  God,  which  blights  those 
who  set  their  hand  against  this  work 
and  labor  for  its  destruction.  For  as 
the  sun  shines  at  noonday  and  as  the 
brightness  of  morning  appears  in  the 
eastern  horizon,  this  work  must  suc- 


ceed.   It  is  the  decree  of  Providence. 

While  we  thus  speak  in  connection 
with  the  work,  and  while  we  feel  our 
weaknesses  and  our  littleness  as  aids 
in  its  accomplishment,  we  recognize 
the  fact  that  the  day  of  destruction  and 
schooling  has  not  gone  by.  Around  us 
are  armies  of  boys  and  girls  develop- 
ing into  young  manhood  and  young  wo- 
manhood, schooled  under  conditions 
somewhat  different  to  those  that  have 
existed  in  former  times,  and  yet  not  so 
different  after  all,  only  that  we  have  al- 
lowed a  great  degree  of  laxity  to  grow 
up  in  connection  with  our  government 
and  association  in  our  households  that 
never  should  have  existed.  I  have  spok- 
en a  number  of  times  upon  the  question 
of  a  more  cautious,  careful  and  deter- 
mined purpose  on  the  part  of  the  head  of 
every  home,  to  see  that  he  is  in  clos- 
er companionship  with  the  members 
of  his  household  than  he  has  been  wont 
to  be  in  times  past.  I  have  received  the 
Priesthood.  It  entails  upon  me  a  great 
obligation  that  takes  my  entire  time  in 
the  missionary  fields  abroad,  or  in  the 
discharge  of  duties  in  the  ward  or 
Stake.  No  matter  about  my  own  home 
circle,  the  wife  and  the  children  must 
look  to  their  own  interest  there;  but  I 
must  discharge  this  duty  that  leads  me 
hence  in  the  fulfillment  or  requirements 
that  have  been  placed  upon  my  shoul- 
ders, and  to  a  degree  that  in  my  judg- 
ment is  reprehensible.  With  this  feel- 
ing in  our  hearts  we  have  neglected 
one  of  the  most  sacred  obligations  in 
the  world.  I  am  wondering  when  that 
obligation  shall  be  brought  home  to  us 
which  is  laid  down  in  the  Scriptures, 
about  the  teaching  of  our  children,  how 
far  you  and  I,  holding  the  Priesthood 
of  the  Son  of  God,  shall  be  found  under 
the  ban  pronounced  by  the  Savior  of 
the  world  in  the  revelation  of  His  holy 
will.  The  troubles  and  trials  of  this 
life  are  manifold,  but  there  is  no  re- 
sponsibility placed  upon  us  greater  than 
the  care  of  our  own.  The  statement  by 
one  of  old  that  he  who  does  not  pro- 
vide for  his  own  is  worse  than  an  infidel 
and  has  already  denied  the  faith,  is  one 
that  will  apply  to  a  great  many  in  our 
day  and  time.  There  must  be  a  more 
systematic  and  thoughtful  application 
of  home  government  and  home  action 
upon  the  part  of  the  Elders  of  the 


L6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  L,ater-day 
Saints,  or  the  ban  pronounced  in  these 
words,  which  classes  us  with  the  infidel, 
will  be  manifest,  and  it  will  be  written 
by  the  recording  angel  that  our  part 
has  not  been  performed  in  the  Spirit 
of  that  work  which  God  has  given  us  a 
share  in  establishing  in  the  world.  I 
do  not  believe  that  duty  requires  any 
one  of  you  to  be  absent  from  your 
homes  every  night  in  the  week,  looking 
after  somebody  other  than  your  own 
household.  I  do  not  believe  that  the  ad- 
justment of  the  responsibilities  placed 
upon  us  in  this  Priesthood  that 
we  hold  reauires  that  the 
sons  and  daughters  of  the  Elders  of  this 
Church  shall  not  be  in  touch  with  their 
fathers  in  such  spirit  as  shall  render 
them  susceptible  to  the  influence  of 
that  Priesthood  and  the  spirit  of  this 
work,  which  leads  them  to  make  the 
sacrifices,  if  they  can  be  called  sacri- 
fices, that  has  led  them  by  hundreds 
and  thousands  into  every  part  of  the 
earth.  It  is  an  adjustment  that  is  es- 
sential with  these  High  Priests,  these 
Seventies  and  these  Elders  in  the 
Church,  that  the  home  and  its  interests 
shall  be  remembered,  and  that  the  men 
who  sit  down  in  their  homes  constantly 
and  fail  to  perform  their  part  in  con- 
nection with  the  work  outside  of  the 
home  shall  adjust  their  time  upon  legit- 
imate and  proper  lines,  which  shall  so 
distribute  the  labors  that  my  wives  and 
my  children  and  that  my  associates 
with  their  wives  and  children  may  en- 
joy that  legitimate  and  proper  com- 
panionship designed  by  our  maker  when 
he  made  us  husbands  and  wives,  par- 
ents and  children. 

It  has  given  me  great  concern  to  have 
many  of  my  brethren  tell  me  that  they 
have  not  spent  an  evening  at  home  in 
years.  This  duty,  that  duty  and  these 
appointments  have  taken  them  here 
and  there,  and  their  sons  and  daughters 
scarcely  see  them.  If  they  do  see  them, 
it  is  simply  in  the  morning,  when  break- 
fast is  eaten,  and  then  they  depart  to 
the  various  labors  resting  upon  them. 
I  hope  that  in  the  consideration  of  these 
questions  affecting  the  home  and  the 
work  of  God,  we  will  see  to  it  in  the 
future  that  each  of  these  interests  shall 
receive  its  proper  care  and  attention, 
and  that  the  wife  shall  rejoice  in  the 


companionship  at  the  fireside  of  her 
husband,  at  least  occasionally,  and  that 
the  boys  and  girls  shall  feel  themselves 
in  duty  bound  to  congregate  there. 
Then  in  the  love  manifest  in  that  home 
by  the  husband  for  the  wife,  and  wife 
for  the  husband  and  the  parents  for  the 
children,  there  shall  be  a  witness  of 
God's  mercy  in  the  establishment  of  that 
principle  by  which  men  and  women  are 
bound  together  for  time  and  eternity. 
It  seems  to  me  there  is  no  reason  in  the 
world  why  the  acting  Priesthood  in  a 
Stake  or  ward  should  be  away  from 
their  families  every  night  in  the  week; 
why  these  Elders,  these  Seventies,  these 
High  Priests  and  these  Apostles  should 
have  so  little  of  that  companionship 
that  was  established  when  they  plight- 
ed their  faith  to  their  companions.  The 
devotion  of  husband  and  wife  should 
not  become  cooled  as  age  approaches, 
but  we  should  be  determined  in  our 
hearts  to  maintain  under  every  condi- 
tion its  warmth  to  the  fullest,  inas- 
much as  we  have  covenanted  with  God, 
angels  and  witnesses  that  for  time  and 
eternity  we.  would  fill  in  justice  and 
propriety  the  duties  and  responsibilities 
of  the  sacred  relationship  of  husband 
and  wife. 

President  Cannon,  in  his  remarks 
this  afternoon,  bearing  upon  the  spirit 
of  insubordination  and  a  failure  to 
recognize  counsels  coming  from  the 
proper  source  in  connection  with  the- 
work  of  God,  has  expressed  very  clear- 
ly and  distinctly  the  feeling  that  is 
present  with  a  great  many  people,  the 
result  of  thoughtlessness  upon  the  part 
of  some,  but  largely  attributable  to  the 
fact  that  that  companionship  which 
should  exist  in  the  home  does  not  exist, 
and  that  our  boys  and  girls  get  from 
under  our  control  and  we  seem  to  lack 
the  tact  to  draw  them  back  under  our 
influence.  President  Cannon  gave  to 
you  his  views  in  regard  to  the  question 
of  veneration.  I  am  unlike  him  in  a 
great  degree,  I  lack  in  veneration.  It 
has  been  necessary  for  me  to  cultivate 
it.  While  I  respect  my  brethren  and 
also  the  men  and  women  whose  hair 
has  become  *?ray,  it  is  indeed  an  ex- 
treme effort  for  me  to  show  that  de- 
ference and  respect  which  is  due  to 
the  men  with  whom  we  mingle  or  who 
possess  influence  among  the  children 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 


17 


of  men.    But  his  suggestions  in  connec- 
tion with  these  matters  are  worthy  of 
consideration.     I  have  sought  to  im- 
press upon  my  own  sons  the  necessity 
of  being  men  among  men,  to  seek  to 
understand     principle,     to     act  up- 
on   the    basis    of    their  consciences, 
and      to      fulfill      the      duties  and 
responsibilities       of       life       in  the 
Priesthood    which   God   has   given  to 
them,  in  such  a  way  that  the  name  they 
bear  shall  not  be  tainted.  But  we  notice 
in  connection  with  these  matters  that 
there  is  a  spirit  abroad  that  it  is  not 
right  and  proper  to  give  ear  to  the 
counsels  of  wise  and  prudent  men;  that 
they  are  old  fogies;  that  experience  in 
the  world  counts  for  nothing,  and  that 
step  by  step  we  will  brush  their  views 
out  of  the  way.    I  presume  it  is  an 
American  idea  that  has  developed  itself 
in  the  world.   Oh!  how  many  will  awak- 
en in  time  to  the  understanding  that 
they  have  been  deceiving  themselves, 
that  the  experience  of  a  gray-haired  fa- 
ther and  mother,  and  that  the  careful 
and  considerate    counsels    of   a  High 
Priest  in  the  Church  of  Christ  would 
have  been,  if  utilized,  potent  for  their 
good. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  recognize 
the  fact  that  Zion  is  going  to  grow.  I 
would  grow  with  it.  I  would  have  my 
children  grow  with  it.  My  grandsires 
labored  in  connection  with  this  work; 
my  sires  have  labored  in  connection 
with  it.  They  believed  it  was  true.  I 
believe  they  were  right.  I  not  only  be- 
lieve, but  I  know  that  they  were  right; 
and  if  I  can  write  this  knowledge  upon 
my  wives  and  children  and  get  them  to 
understand  the  duty  that  they  owe  to 
God  and  their  country  in  connection 
with  the  development  of  this  work 
and  its  extension  in  all  the  world,  I  will 
indeed  rejoice  in  every  fibre  of  my  be- 
ing. But  should  they  lose  respect  for 
the  truth  which  God  has  revealed  or  for 
the  love  of  right  presented  in  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  government  that  has  been 
established,  under  which  this  work  has 
been  developed,  it  shall  seem  to  me 
that  life  has  indeed  been  a  failure.  If, 
however,  the  husbands  and  the  fathers, 
the  wives  and  the  mothers  shall  be  in 
attune  with  each  other;  if  they  shall 
love  the  home  and  the  home  circle;  if 


they  shall  impregnate  their  children 
with  an  understanding  of  the 
truth,  and  with  the  reverence  due 
to  our  heavenly  Father  and 
His  representatives  here,  as 
well  as  to  the  grey  hairs  of  every  hon- 
orable man  and  woman  in  the  world,  it 
will  have  been,  indeed,  an  accomplish- 
ment that  will  lend  strength  and  force 
to  this  work,  and  its  spread  will  be 
manifest  in  every  direction. 

May  heaven's  peace  abound  in  your 
hearts  and  in  your  homes;  may  you 
love  the  truth,  and  lay  the  foundation 
of  love  so  deeply  and  thoroughly  in  the 
circle  that  God  has  given  you  a  stew- 
ardship over,  that  when  manhood  and 
womanhood  shall  be  reached,  and  the 
children,   and  the  children's  children 
shall  look  homeward,  there  shall  be  joy 
abounding  in  their  hearts,  which  noth- 
ing in  the  world  can  quench.   If  we  will 
do  the  bidding  of  our  Father;   if  we 
shall  remember  that  as  husbands  and 
wives  our  obligations  are  eternal;  if  we 
shall  remember  as  parents  and  children 
that  our  hope  of  the  approval  of  our 
Father  in  heaven  is  linked  together, 
and  if  we  shall  fulfill  the  duties  that 
life  requires  at  our  hands,  rendering  to 
our  family  their  share,  all  will  be  well. 
If  we  will  see  to  it  that  some  men  are 
not  required  to  take  all  the  care  and  re- 
sponsibility, while  others    remain  at 
home  in  idleness,  all  of  us  will  be  the 
better  off,  and  the  wives  who  have  hus- 
bands lounging  around  the  house  will 
thank  God  for  the  privilege  of  their 
having  something  t'o  do  outside  of  their 
homes.   We  have   received   the  truth. 
There  is  no  mistake  in  regard  to  that. 
Mankind  may  just  as  well  come  to  that 
conclusion  first  as  last,  and  realize  that 
every  block  placed  by  them  in  the  way 
will   but  increase   the  impetus  of  the 
work.   It  is  for  us  who  have  become  its 
custodians  to  fulfill  our  mission  and 
ministry.    Our  friends  criticise  us  for 
the  evils  that  are  manifest  among  us. 
There  are  evils  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  There  are  boys  unguarded,  un- 
warned and  untaught.  There  are  girls 
left   to   the   prey   of  the  vicious  and 
the      impure.       There     are  unwise 
mothers,   who   have   never   learned  a 
single      lesson      from      the  experi- 
ence     of      their      own      lives,  and 
men  who  seem  to  forget  the  tempta- 


1- 


GENERAL  COAFEPEACE. 


tions  and  trials  that  beset  them  in  their 
youth,  and  turn  loose  to  be  destroyed 
the  treasures  that  God  has  given  them. 
Oh!  that  I  could  write  upon  the  heart 
of  every  man  and  every  woman  the 
rememberance  of  their  own  lives,  and 
the  struggles  that  they  have  had  to 
make  to  preserve  themselves  from  the 
pitfalls  of  immorality;  and  write  also 
upon  their  hearts  and  souls  the  sen- 
timent and  feeling  that  our  Father 
would  inspire  if  they  would  open  their 
hearts  to  him,  that  these  pure  spirits 
need  the  constant  guidance,  guardian- 
ship and  care  of  their  fathers  and 
mothers. 

A^ain  I  say,  may  the  Lord's  peace 
abound  with  you.  May  the  spirit  of 
this  conference  resound  to  the  ends  of 
the  earth  with  the  declaration  that 
Mormonism,  as  the  world  calls  it,  is  a 
factor  in  the  universe,  come  to  stay,  not 
to  fade  nor  fail,  but  to  increase  and  de- 
velop as  long  as  there  is  a  human  being 
in  sin;  warning  its  own  devotees  that 
honesty,  truthfulness,  virtue  and  love 
and  respect  for  everything  that  is 
noble  and  true  is  the  foundation  stone 
of  the  work.;  calling  upon  everyone  who 
has  drifted  into  by  and  forbidden 
paths  to  repent  and  turn  to  the  truth, 
and  being  to  the  world  a  light  set  upon 
a  hill,  that  cannot  be  hid,  which  will  in- 
crease in  brightness  and  power  until 
its  light  shall  encompass  the  earth. 
God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 

The  Saints  (rust  in  the  Lord— Caus^  of  the  opposi- 
tion of  the  world — Exhortation  to  faithfulness — 
A  plea  for  liberty. 

I  am  very  thankful  to  our  Heavenly 
Father  that  I  have  the  privilege  of  at- 
tending this  conference  and  of  rejoicing 
with  my  brethren  that  we  are  seventy 
years  of  age.  I  was  very  much  im- 
pressed in  listening  to  the  instructions 
that  have  been  given,  how  everything 
tends  to  establish  the  Scriptures.  The 
37th  Psalm  says: 

"Fret  not  thyself  because  of  evil-doers, 
neither  be  thou  envious  against  the- 
workers  of  iniquity: 

"For  they  shall  soon  be  cut  down  like 
the  grass  and  wither  as  the  green  herb. 

"Trust  in  the  Lord,  and  do  good;  so 
shalt  thou  dwell  in  the  land,  and  verily 
thou  shalt  be  fed. 

"Delight  thyself  also  in  the  Lord;  and 
he  shall  give  thee  the  desires  of  thine 
heart. 


"Commit  thy  way  unto  the  Lord;  trust 
also  in  him,  and  he  shall  bring  it  to 
pass: 

"And  he  shall  bring  forth  thy  right- 
eousness as  the  light,  and  thy  judg- 
ment as  the  noonday." 

From  the  testimonies  that  we  have 
heard  this  seems  to  be  the  history  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  They  are  the  most 
valiant  and  courageous  people  on  the 
face  of  the  earth,  because  they  "Trust 
in  the  Lord  and  do  good."  It  required 
a  great  deal  of  moral  courage  to  ac- 
cept this  Gospel,  to  come  out  of  the 
world  and  take  up  the  cross  of  Christ, 
and  to  advocate  a  doctrine  that  was 
everywhere  spoken  against.  But  it  has 
established  in  us  an  everlasting  char- 
acter. We  know  no  fear.  Our  trust  is 
in  the  Lord;  and  the  exhortation  to  us, 
Learn  the  will  of  God  and  do  it,  brings 
forth  and  establishes  within  us  a  char- 
acter. We  are  always  willing  to  do  the 
will  of  God.  We  came  into  the  Church 
for  that  express  purpose.  We  found 
that  it  would  be  impossible  for  us  to  be 
delivered  from  death,  hell  and  the 
grave,  unless  we  accepted  of  the  doc- 
trine of  Christ  as  taught  by  the  inspired 
servants  of  God;  and  being  on  the  un- 
popular side  we  had  to  defend  our- 
selves. We  tested  the  principles  of 
everlasting  life,  and  we  have  discovered 
they  are  true.  God  has  given  unto  us 
line  upon  line,  precept  upon  precept, 
here  a  little  and  there  a  little,  and  we 
are  growing  in  grace  and  in  the  knowl- 
edge of  God.  He  has  told  us  over  and 
over  again  that  if  we  will  love  him  and 
keep  his  commandments  we  shall 
prosper  in  the  land.  The  Scrip- 
trues  are  true.  The  Holy  Spirit  has 
come  unto  the  sons  and  daughters  of 
God  in  the  day  and  age  in  which  we 
live.  We  all  realize  that  we  have  our 
individual  mission;  that  when  we  seek 
unto  the  Lord  and  ask  His  guidance, 
He  guides  and  directs  us.  He  gives  us 
the  opportunity  of  being  everything 
that  we  could  wish  to  be,  in  fulfilling 
the  mission  He  has  appointed  us,  to 
His  honor  and  glory.  There  is  no  need 
of  our  ever  being  deceived  or  being  be- 
guiled by  the  influence  of  the  adver- 
sary— who  of  course  is  adverse  to  God's 
will  being  done— if  we  will  only  ob- 
serve the  will  of  the  Lord  and  do  it. 
We  have  a  Father  in  heaven  who  loves 
us,  and  who  has  given  unto  us  the 


ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 


19 


privilege  of  dwelling  upon  the  earth 
in  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of 
times.  We  encourage  the  rising  genera- 
tion to  trust  in  the  Lord  and  indi- 
vidually seek  His  counsel.  The  Lord 
does  not  require  a  blind  obedience,  but 
an  intelligent  obedience,  and  the  Savior 
has  exhorted  us  to  ask  and  it  shall 
be  given  us,  to  seek  and  we  shall  find, 
to  knock  and  it  shall  be  opened  unto  us. 
On  one  occasion  he  gave  us  the  parable 
of  the  unjust  judge,  and  told  us  to  pray- 
without  ceasing,  to  put  our  trust  in 
the  Lord,  and  He  would  give  us  every- 
thing necessary. 

The  Church  of  Christ  has  a  bad  repu- 
tation.   It  always  did  have.    "We  de- 
sire to  hear  of  thee  what  thou  thinkest; 
for  as  concerning  this  sect,  we  know 
that  everywhere  it  is  spoken  against," 
was  said  of  old.    It  is  a  trick  of  the 
adversary   that   we   should   be  evilly 
spoken  of,  and  it  is  his  disciples,  who 
despise  the  commandment  "thou  shalt 
not  bear  false  witness    against  thy 
neighbor,"  who  have  given  us  our  bad 
reputation.    But  that  matters  very  lit- 
tle.  We  know  we  are  of  God,  and  that 
the  world  lieth  in  the  arms  of  the 
wicked  one.   We  know  that  the  princi- 
ples #of  everlasting  life,  which  we  have 
subscribed  to,  are  true,  and  it  is  to  our 
best  interest  individually  to  accomplish 
that    which    the    Father    has  given 
us    to    do.      If    those      who  fight 
against     us,     who     despise    us  and 
who    will    not    fellowship    us  would 
search  for  themselves  individually  as 
we  have  done,  they  would  see  as  we 
see  and  have  the  same  comprehension 
of  the  principles  of  everlasting  life,  be- 
cause they  would  have  the  same  spirit, 
even  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  with- 
out which  no  man  knowth  the  things  of 
God.    I  have  no  faith  in  the  wisdom  of 
man,  nor  in  doctors  of  divinity.  They 
have  made  a  mistake  from  the  begin- 
ning.   The  history  of  the  world  tells 
us  that  mankind  always  accepted  false 
prophets  and  slew  and  rejected  those 
who  were  sent  of  God  with  the  glad 
tidings  of  great  joy.    In  the  days  of 
Noah,    but   eight   persons   out   of  the 
whole  world  accepted  the  Gospel  of  the 
Son  of  God,  and  were  saved,  while  the 
others,  under  the  dominion  of  the  prince 
and  power  of  the  air,  rejected  light  and 
truth  and  made  their  bet?  where  we 
would  not  like  to  go. 


I  say  to  you,  my  .brethren  and  sisters, 
seek  the  counsel  of  the  Almighty  in 
your  individuality,  and  when  the  Lord 
reveals  to  you  what  your  mission  is. 
fulfill  it  to  the  glory  of  God,  no  matter 
who  else  is  pleased  or  displeased.  The 
whole  duty  of  man  is  to  serve  God  and 
keep  His  commandments,  and  woe  un- 
to us  if  we  do  not  do  it.   We  have  been 
slothful;  we  have  been  indifferent;  we 
have  robbed  the  Lord  in  tithes  and 
offerings;  we  have  been  self-sufficient 
and  have  despised  the  counsels  of  the 
Almighty,  and  He  has  called  upon  us  to 
repent,   to  reform,  and  to  consecrate 
unto  Him  that  which  is  His  due,  ac- 
cording to  His  commandment,  which 
is,  that  of  everything  He  shall  give  to 
us,   we  will  consecrate  to  Him  one- 
tenth,  and  our  ears  shall  be  open  to 
the  cry  of  the  widow  and  the  father- 
less, and  we  shall  visit  them  in  their 
distress.  The  Lord  has  also  commanded 
us  to  get  out  of  debt,  so  that  we  may 
owe  no  man  anything  and  be  indepen- 
dent and  keep  the  law  of  God.  Unless 
we  do  so  He  cannot    establish  His 
statutes  upon  the  land.   I  want  to  bear 
my  testimony  to  the  truth  of  these  prin^ 
ciples.    I  know  they  are  true.    I  know 
that  God  lives;  I  know  that  Jesus  is 
the     Christ.     I     know    that  Joseph 
Smith       was       a       true  prophet 
sent  of  God.    All  mankind  can  obtain 
this  testimony,  if  they  will  seek  for  it. 
There  was  a  time  when  I  did  not  know 
it.    I  sought  the  Lord  for  it,  and  he 
gave  it  to  me,  to  my  perfect  satisfac- 
tion.   My  exhortation  to  the  people  all 
the  time  is,  for  goodness  sake  be  kind 
to    yourselves;  hear  the    word  of  the 
Lord  and  do  it;  stand  in  the  dignity  of 
your  manhood  and  resist  the  influence 
of  the  world.    Woe  unto  us  if  we  are 
overcome  of  the  world;  woe  unto  us 
if  we  are  excommunicated  from  the 
Church.    We  have  a  long  list  of  men 
who  should  pay  tithing  and  do  not.  I 
am  sorry  for  them.    I  wish  they  had 
sense  enough  to  be  kinder  to  them- 
selves, for  they  are  laboring  under  a 
curse  who  rob  God  in  tithes,  and  offer- 
ings.   They  have  no  right  to  partake 
of   the     Sacrament,    being  unworthy. 
Every  time  they  do  it  they  eat  and 
drink  damnation;  for  they  tell  the  Lord 
that  they  are  willing  to  take  upon  them 
the  name  of  Christ  and  to  keep  His 
commandments,  yet  they  do  not  do  it. 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Hypocrites!    Hypocrites!    A  great  deal 
better  if  they  should  wake  up  to  an  un- 
derstanding of  the  dangerous  position 
they  occupy.    If  the  Bishops  are  kind 
and  considerate  to  hear  with  teem,  to 
plead  with  them  and  to  dig  all  around 
them  and  they  reject  it, when  they  pass 
behind  the  veil  their  record  is  made, 
the  day  has  gone,  the  night  has  come, 
and  their  souls  are  not  saved.  Then 
comes  the  agony;  but  we  have  made  it 
ourselves.   We  work  out  our  salvation, 
or  we  work  out  our  damnation.    It  is 
our  own  act.    I  know  these  Principles 
are  true;  they  are  common  sense.  There 
is  no  blessing,  no  eternal  life  promised 
to  those  who  despise  God  and  His  com- 
mandments, and  who  prefer  darkness 
to  liRht    It  is  a  condemnation  to  reject 
ight  and  truth;   and  when  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  shall  come  in  flaming 
to  take  vengeance  upon  them  who  know 
not  God  and  keep  not  His  command- 
ments those  who  love  darkness  rather 
than  light  will  be  punished  with  ever- 
lasting banishment  from  the  presence 
of  God  and  the  Lamb. 

I  rejoice  very  much  in  the  instructions 
that  have  been  given  today.    I  am  m 
harmony  with  every  revealed  principle. 
I  say  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are 
the  noblest  people  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth;    and   instead   of     governments  < 
striving  to  stay  their  progress,  they 
should  do  everything  to  enable  them 
to  progress  in  light  and  truth,  and  to 
develop  principles  and  conditions  which 
they  know  nothing  at  all  about, 
know  what  we  are  doing,  and  we  under- 
stand the  science  of  life.    We  under- 
stand where  we  came  from,  what  we 
are  here  for  and  what  is  our  future 
destiny,  because  we  are  taught  of  God. 
We  are  in  harmony  with  eternal  prin- 
PiDl-s     Our  Elders  go  forth  preaching 
the  Gospel  of  the  Son  of  God.  They 
take  their  lives  in  their  hands,  leaving 
their  families  behind,  and  proclaim  this 
glad  message  of  great  joy  and  that  God 
has  again  spoken.    They  call  the  peo- 
ple to  repentance,  and  warn  them  of 
judgments  to  come.    We  are  told  that 
judgment  Will  commence  at  the  house 
of  God    It  will  fall  upon  this  very  class 
of  people  who  despise  God,  and  reject 
His  commandments.   We  take  our  little 


children  to  our  Sabbath  schools,  our 
primaries,  our  Mutual  Improvement 
associations  and  quorums  of  Priest- 
hood for  the  express  purpose  of  train- 
ing them  that  they  may  grow  up  with- 
out sin  unto  salvation.  The  Lord  wants 
to  establish  His  righteousness.  That  is 
what  He  has  hired  us  for,  and  we 
should  love  truth  and  righteousness, 
and  have  our  ears  open  to  hear,  our 
eyes  to  see  and  our  hearts  to  under- 
stand, that  we  may  be  for  God  and  His 
righteousness. 

Did  you  ever  know  this  people  so 
unpatriotic  as  to  be  petitioning  the  gov- 
ernment against  any  handfull  of  peo- 
ple '    No  patriot  was  ever  guilty  of 
anything  of  the  kind.    A  patriot  is  a 
man  who  sustains  the  Constitution  of 
the  United  States  and  believes  in  re- 
ligious liberty.     There  are  hypocrites 
among  professed  patriots,  as  well  as 
other  classes  of  people.      I  say  God 
bless  the  patriots.    God  bless  our  gov- 
ernment,    and     give    them  wisdom, 
strength  of  character  and  moral  cour- 
age to  stand  by  the  principles  of  the 
Constitution,  and  not  be  cowards.  I 
would  plead  for  this  with  all  my  heart. 
For  of  all  people  in  the  world,  we  are 
interested  in  having  a  righteous  gov- 
ernment.   We  know  how  to  appreciate 
libertv  and  freedom,  and  we  never  in- 
terfere with  other  people's  doctrines  or 
belief.   We  have  enough  to  do  to  teach 
our  own.    We  have  the  truth,  the  way 
and  the  Ufe  and  we  have  no  time  to 
find  fault  with  others.    It  takes  us  all 
our  time  to  publish  the  glad  tidings  of 
great  joy. 

I  pray  God  my  eternal  Father  that 
He  will  establish  the  kingdom  of  God 
upon   the   earth   in   power;    that  the 
kingdom  of  heaven  may  come;  that  His 
will  may  be  done  on  earth  as  it  is  done 
in  heaven,  and  that  we  who  have  taken 
upon  ourselves   the  name     of  Jesus 
Christ  may  be  true  and  faithful  to  our 
covenants,  and  that  we  may  have  the 
grace  of  God  to  overcome  and  endure 
unto  the  end,  in  His  glorious  kingdom, 
through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 
Singing  by  the  choir. 
Benediction  by  Elder     Christian  D. 
Fjeldsted. 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


•IV 


SECOND  DAY. 


April  7th,  10  a.  m. — The  choir  and  con- 
gregation sang  the  hymn  beginning: 

Come  let  us  anew  our  journey  pursue, 
Roll  round  with  the  year, 
And  never  stand  still  till  the  Master  ap- 
pear. 

Prayer  by  Elder  Angus  M.  Cannon. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 

Hark!  listen  to  the  gentle  strain, 
O'er  hill  and  valley,  grove  and  plain! 
It  echoes  from  the  heights  above 
The  voice  of  freedom,  peace  and  love. 

ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

Individual  Progress  in  the  work  of  God  depends 
upon  obedience  t.>  God's  Commandments- To 
become  great  it  is  not  necessary  to  behold 
Angels  and  have  great  spiritual  manifestations 
— E^rnal  life  the  tgreatest  tjift  of  God  to  man 
— The  Church  organ  should  be  sustained. 

I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  the  opportun- 
ity of  again  meeting  with  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  in  general  conference.  I 
have  enjoyed  listening  to  the  remarks 
which  have  thus  far  been  made,  and  I 
desire,  as  was  said  here  yesterday  by 
President  Snow,  as  all  Elders  with  the 
proper  spirit  should  desire,  that  I  may 
be  blessed  of  the  Lord  and  that  I  may 
have  the  faith  and  prayers  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  that  what  I  may  say. 
shall  be  beneficial  to  us  and  encourage 
us  in  performing  the  duties  that  de- 
volve upon  us  as  Latter-day  Saints. 

It  has  ever  been  a  source  of  surprise 
to  me  that  there  are  so  many  members 
of  the  Church,  more  particularly  those 
who  hold  the  holy  Priesthood,  who  pro- 
fess to  be  Latter-day  Saints,  who  testi- 
fy to  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  and 
to  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which 
we  are  engaged,  and  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God,  and  yet 
who  fail  to  keep  the  commandments  of 
our  heavenly  Father,  and  to  prove  by 
their  lives  that  they  are  in  very  deed 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  am  surprised  at 
this,  because  I  cannot  understand  how 
people  with  a  knowledge  of  the  Gosoel 
and  the  testimony  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
Prophet  of  the  true  and  living  God,  and 
that  he  has  established  on  the  earth, 
under  the  direction  of  our  heavenly 
Father  and  his  Son  Jesus,  the  Gospel 


of  everlasting  life,  and  that  it  is  in  very 
deed  the  pearl  of  great  price  to  each 
and  every  one  of  us — it  is  a  surprise  to 
me,  I  say,  that  men,  holding  the  holy 
Priesthood  and  possessing  this  knowl- 
edge, should,  year  after  year,  neglect 
the  duties  and  the  obligations  that  rest 
upon  them.  The  Savior  told  His  fol- 
lowers that  they  were  the  salt  of  the 
earth,  but  that  if  the  salt  lost  its  savor, 
it  was  thenceforth  good  for  nothing,  but 
to  be  cast  out  and  trodden  under  the 
feet  of  men.  He  told  them  also  that  they 
were  the  light  of  the  world,  a  city 
set  upon  a  hill  which  could 
not  be  hid;  he  told  them  that  men  did 
not  light  a  candle  and  put  it  under  a 
bushel,  but  upon  a  candlestick,  that  it 
might  give  light  to  all  that  were  in  the 
room,  and  he  admonished  them  to  let 
their  light  so  shine  that  men  seeing 
their  good  deeds  might  glorify  God. 

This  admonition  applies  to  us.  We  are 
the  light  of  the  world.  We  have  re- 
ceived the  inspiration  of  Almighty  God. 
We  have  received  a  testimony  of  the 
Gospel,  and  we  do  know  that  God  lives, 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God,  and  that 
Brigham  Young,  John  Taylor,  and  Wil- 
ford  Woodruff  were  prophets  of  God, 
as  is  Lorenzo  Snow.  Every  true  Latter- 
day  Saint  has  this  testimony  burning 
within  his  or  her  heart.  Now,  are  we 
so  living  that  the  good  deeds  we  per- 
form bring  credit  to  the  work  of  God? 
Are  our  examples  worthy  of  the  imita- 
tion of  all  men?  Do  we  by  our  exam- 
ples show  that  we  have  faith  in  the 
Gospel?  We  are  told  that  faith  with- 
out works  is  dead;  that  as  the  body 
without  the  spirit  is  dead,  so  also  is 
faith  without  works  dead,  and  I  am 
sorry  to  say  that  there  are  many  pro- 
fessed Latter-day  Saints  who  are  spirit- 
ually dead.  We  many  times  ask  our- 
selves the  question,  why  does  this  man 
progress  in  the  plan  of  life  and  salva- 
tion, while  his  neighbor,  of  equal  in- 
telligence and  ability,  of  apparently 
the  same  testimony  and  power,  and 
perchance  greater  power,  stands  still?  I 
will  tell  you  why.    One  keeps  the  com- 


GENERAL  C  ONEERENCE. 


mandments  of  our  Heavenly  Father, 
and  the  other  fails  to  keep  them.  The 
Savior  says  that  he  that  keeps  his  com- 
mandments is  the  man  that  loves  him, 
and  he  that  keeps  the  commandments 
of  God  shall  be  loved  of  the  Father,  and 
the  Savior  says  he  will  love  him  and  he 
will  manifest  himself  unto  him.  The 
Lord  also  tells  us  that  those  who  hear 
His  sayings  and  doeth  them  shall  be 
likened  unto  the  wise  man  who  built 
his  house  upon  the  rock,  and  when  the 
rains  descended  and  the  floods  came 
and  the  winds  blew  and  beat  upon  that 
house,  it  fell  not,  because  it  was  found- 
ed UDon  a  rock.  On  the 
other  hand,  those  who  heard  His  say- 
ings and  did  them  not,  the  Savior  lik- 
ened unto  a  foolish  man,  who  built  his 
house  on  the  sand,  and  when  the  rains 
descended  and  the  floods  came  and  the 
winds  blew  and  beat  upon  that  house, 
it  fell,  and  great  was  the  fall  thereof. 
There  are  many  Latter-day  Saints  who 
are  building  their  houses  upon  the  sand. 
They  are  failing  to  do  the  sayings  of 
our  Savior.  They  are  failing  to  carry 
out  the  commandments  of  our  Heav- 
enly Father  that  come  to  us  from  time 
to  time  through  His  inspired  servants. 

Now,  if  we  have  the  Gospel  (and  we 
know  we  have),  I  say  to  each  and  every 
Latter-day  Saint,  who  desires  to  grow 
and  enlarge  in  the  Gospel,  he  must 
keep  the  commandments  of  God.  As 
we  keep  the  commandments  of  God  and 
live  god-like  lives,  we  become  full  of 
charity,  long-suffering  and  love  for  our 
fellows,  and  we  grow  and  increase  in 
all  those  things  that  go  to  make  us  no- 
ble and  god -like.  We  also  gain  the 
love  and  confidence  of  those  by  whom 
we  are  surounded.  It  is  by  the  per- 
formance of  the  plain,  simple,  every- 
day duties  that  devolve  upon  us  that 
we  will  grow  in  the  spirit  of  God.  You 
find  me  a  man  that  attends  his  quorum 
meetings,  that  performs  his  duties  in 
the  ward  in  which  he  lives,  that  hon~ 
estly  pays  his  tithing,  and  I  will  find 
you  a  man  full  of  the  spirit  of  God  and 
growing  and  increasing  in  the  testimo- 
ny of  the  Gospel.  On  the  other  hand, 
you  find  me  a  man  that  has  seen  angels, 
that  has  had  wonderful  manifestations, 
that  has  seen  devils  cast  out,  that  has 
gone  to  the  ends  of  the  earth  and 
preached  the  Gospel,  and  yet  who  is 


failing  to  keep  the  commandments  of 
God,  and  I  will  find  you  a  man  that  is 
cirticising  the  Lord's  anointed,  and 
finding  fault  with  what  the  President 
does,  with  where  he  goes,  what  he  en- 
gages in  and  how  he  administers  the 
affairs  of  the  Church.  There  are  many 
non-tithe-payers  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  many  of  them  say  that 
the  reason  they  don't  pay  tithing 
is  because  the  tithing  is 
not  properly  administered.  See- 
ing, however,  that  they  do  not  pay  a 
dollar,  it  is  none  of  their  business  how 
it  is  administered.  But  you  will  find 
that  those  who  do  not  do  their  duty,  are 
always  complaining  about  somebody 
that  does,  and  making  excuses  for 
themselves.  I  have  never  found  a  man 
who  was  keeping  the  commandments 
of  God  that  had  any  criticism  to  offer 
concerning  any  administration  of  the 
affairs  of  the  Church.  Neglect  of  duty, 
failure  to  keep  the  commandments  of 
God,  darkens  the  mind  of  man  and  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  withdrawn.  We 
find  it  recorded  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  "For  although  a  man  may 
have  many  revelations,  and  have  power 
to  do  many  mighty  works,  yet  if  he 
boasts  in  his  own  strength  and  sets  at 
nought  the  counsels  of  God,  and  fol- 
lows after  the  dictates  of  his  own  will 
and  carnal  desires,  he  must  fall."  As 
recorded  in  the  first  section  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  where  men  repent 
and  turn  from  their  misdeeds,  the  Lord 
will  forgive  them,  but  His  Spirit  will 
not  always  strive  with  them. 

I  have  met  many  young  men  who 
have  said  to  me,  "I  do  not  know  that 
the  Gospel  is  true.  I  believe  it.  but  I 
do  not  know  it."  I  have  invariably  re- 
plied to  them  that  our  Lord  and  Master 
has  said  that  he  who  will  do  the  will 
of  the  Father  shall  know  of  the  doc- 
trine, whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether 
he  spoke  of  himself,  and  if  they  would 
do  the  will  of  the  Father,  they  should 
eventually  have  a  knowledge  of  the 
Gospel.  Some  of  them  have  said:  "Oh, 
if  I  could  only  see  an  angel;  if  I  could 
only  hear  speaking  in  tongues;  if  I 
could  only  see  some  great  manifesta- 
tion, then  I  would  believe."  I  wish  to 
say  to  all  within  the  sound  of  my 
voice  that  the  seeing  of  angels  and 
great  manifestations  do  not  make  sjrea: 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


■23 


men  in  the  Church  and  kingdom  of 
God.  Think  of  the  three  witnesses  to 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  What  is  their 
testimony?  It  is  that  an  angel  showed 
them  the  plates,  and  that  they  knew 
they  had  been  translated  by  the 
gift  and  power  of  God.  How 
did  they  claim  to  know  this? 
Because  "His  voice  hath  de- 
clared it  unto  us."  What  else 
did  they  testify?  "And  we  declare  with 
words  of  soberness,  that  an  angel  of 
God  came  down  from  heaven,  and  he 
brought  and  laid  before  our  eyes,  that 
we  beheld  and  saw  the  plates,  and  the 
engravings  thereon;  and  we  know  that 
it  is  by  the  grace  of  God,  the  Father, 
and  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  we  be- 
held and  bear  record  that  these  things 
are  true;  and  it  is  marvelous  in  our 
eyes,  nevertheless  the  voice  of  the  Lord 
commanded  us  that  we  should  bear 
record  of  it;  wherefore  to  be  obedient 
unto  the  commandments  of  God,  we 
bear  testimony  of  these  things."  Yet 
these  men  fell  by  the  wayside,  though 
they  remained  true  and  steadfast  to 
their  testimony  to  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

What  is  the  testimony  of  Sidney 
Rigdon  in  connection  with  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  as  recorded  in  the  76th 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants. 

"And  while  we  meditated  upon  these 
things  the  Lord  touched  the  eyes  of  our 
understanding  and  they  were  opened, 
and  the  glory  of  the  Lord  shone  round 
about; 

"And  we  beheld  the  glory  of  the  Son, 
on  the  rierht  hand  of  the  Father,  and  re- 
ceived of  his  fullness; 

"And  saw  the  holy  angels,  and  they 
who  are  sanctified  before  His  throne, 
worshiping  God,  and  the  Lamb,  who 
worship  Him  for  ever  and  ever. 

"And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies 
which  have  been  given  of  Him,  this  is 
the  testimony  last  of  all,  which  we  give 
of  Him,  that  he  lives; 

"For  we  saw  Him,  even  on  the  right 
hand  of  God,  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  only  Be- 
gotten of  the  Father — 

"That  by  Him  and  through  Him,  and 
of  Him  the  worlds  are  and  were  created 
and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begot- 
ten sons  and  daughters  unto  God." 

Think  of  it,  beholding  the  glory  of  the 
Son  and  receiving  a  fullness    of  that 


glory,  and  hearing  the  voice  declare 
that  he  is  the  only  Begotten  of  the 
Father,  and  yet  this  man,  Sidney  Rig- 
don, proved  a  traitor  to  the  Prophet  and 
fell  by  the  wayside! 

There  is  no  character  of  which  we 
have  any  record  in  the  Book  of  Mormon 
that  I  admire  more  than  Nephi.  The 
life  of  that  man  has  been  one  of  the 
guiding  stars  of  my  life.  His  faith,  his 
determination,  his  spirit  to  do  the  will 
of  God  has  inspired  me  with  a  desire  to 
follow  in  his  noble  footsteps. 
We  speak  of  seeing  angels.  What 
is  the  record  of  seeing  angels? 
Those  of  us  who  are  familiar 
with  the  Book  of  Mormon  know  that 
when  God  commanded  Lehi  to  send  to 
Jerusalem  and  get  the  plates  from  La- 
ban,  some  of  his  sons  complained,  but 
when  Nephi  came  from  the  mountain 
to  his  father's  tent,  he  said  that  he 
would  go,  because  he  knew  "that  the 
Lord  giveth  no  commandments  unto  the 
children  of  men,  save  He  should  pre- 
pare a  way  for  them  that  they  may 
accomplish  the  thing  which  he  com- 
mandeth  them."  They  went  up;  they 
failed,  and  the  brothers  wanted  to  go 
back  to  their  father  in  the  wilderness. 
But  Nephi  said  "We  will  not  go  down 
unto  our  father  in  the  wilderness  until 
we  have  accomplished  the  thing  which 
the  Lord  hath  commanded  us."  They 
went  up  again  and  they  gave  their 
wealth  to  Laban.  but  they  were  driven 
back  again.  Then  the  older  brethren 
smote  Nephi  and  his  bi'other  Sam  with 
a  rod,  and  while  they  were  doing  this, 
an  angel  of  the  Lord  stood  before  them 
and  chided  them.  But  no  sooner  had 
he  departed,  after  having  told  them 
to  go  up  again  and  God  would  deliver 
Laban  into  their  hands,  than  they  com- 
menced once  more  to  murmur.  So  it 
has  been  in  all  ages  of  the  world,  and 
so  it  will  be  with  those  who  do  not  keep 
the  commandments  of  God.  Angels 
may  visit  them,  they  may  see  visions, 
they  may  have  dreams,  they  may  even 
see  the  Son  of  God,  and  yet  the  Spirit 
of  God  will  not  burn  in  their  hearts. 
But  those  who  do  the  will  of  God,  and 
live  God-like  lives,  they  will  grow  and 
increase  in  the  testimony  of  the  Gospel 
and  in  power  and  ability  to  do  God's 
will. 

After  the  angel  had  gone,  these  men 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


said,  "How  is  it  possible  that  the  Lord 
Will  deliver  Laban  into  our  hands?  Be- 
hold, he  is  a  mighty  man,  and  he  can 
command  fifty,  yea  even  he  can  slay 
fifty;  then  why  not  us?"  What  did  Ne- 
phi,  the  younger  brother  say?   He  said 
"Let  us  go  up  again  unto  Jerusalem, 
and  let  us  be  faithful  in  keeping  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord;   for  be- 
hold he  is  mightier  than  all  the  earth, 
then  why  not  mightier  than  Laban  and 
his  fifty,  yea,  or  even  than  his  tens  of 
thousands?" 

Here  is  the  key-note, Latter-daySaints. 
Let  us  realize  that  God    is  mightier 
than  all  the  earth.     Let  us  realize  that 
if  we  are  faithful  in  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  God  His  promises  will 
be  fulfilled  to  the  very  letter.     For  He 
has  said  that  not  one  jot  or  tittle  shall 
fall  to    the  ground    unfulfilled.  The 
trouble  is,  the  adversary  of  men's  souls 
blinds  their  minds.     He  throws  dust, 
so  to  speak,  in  their  eyes,  and  they  are 
blinded  with  the  things  of  this  world. 
Men  do  not  lay  up  treasures  in  heaven, 
where  moth  and  rust  corrupt  not,where 
thieves  do  not  break  through  and  steal, 
but  they  set    their    hearts    upon  the 
things  of  this  world,  and  the  adversary 
obtains  power  over  them. 

I  say  to  you,  Latter-day  Saints,  that 
the  pearl  of  great  price  is  life  eternal. 
God  has  told  us  that  the  greatest  of  all 
the  gifts  He  can  bestow  upon  man  is 
life  eternal.  We  are  laboring  for  that 
great  gift,  and  it  will  be  ours  if  we  keep 
the  commandments  of  God.  But  it  will 
not  profit  us  to  merely  make  profes- 
sions and  to  proclaim  to  the  ends  of 
the  earth  that  this  is  the  Gospel,  but  it 
will  profit  us  if  we  do  the  will  of  God. 
As  the  inspired  servant  of  God  said, 
speaking  of  faith  without  works: 

"What  doth  it  profit  my  brethren, 
though  a  man  say  he  hath  faith,  and 
have  not  works?    Can  faith  save  him? 

"If  a  brother  or  sister  be  naked,  and 
destitute  of  daily  food, 

"And  one  of  you  say  unto  them,  De- 
part in  peace,  be  ye  warmed  and  filled; 
notwithstanding  ye  give  them  not  those 
things  which  are  needful  to  the  body; 
what  doth  it  profit?" 

I  say,  what  doth  it  profit  to  go  to 
the  end's  of  the  earth  and  proclaim  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  yet  fail  to 
do  vour  duty  here  in  laboring  for  the 


advancement  of  God's  kingdom?  I  say 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  be  honest 
with  God,  pay  your  tithes  and  your  of- 
ferings, support  every  institution  of 
Zion,  build  up  the  Church  of  Christ, 
pray  for  the  authorities  of  the  Church, 
and  then  sustain  them  in  every  labor 
and  in  all  that  they  undertake  to  do. 

I  see  that  my  time  has  expired,  but 
I  want  to  just  make  one  suggestion.  I 
rejoice      in      the     financial  growth 
of      the      Church      organ;       I  re- 
joice in  the  increase  of  seven  thousand 
subscribers  to  our  paper,  which  belongs 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints.     I  say,  con- 
tinue the  good  work.      Subscribe  for 
the  Deseret  News.     Have    it  in  your 
homes.      Read  the  sermons    that  are 
published  there;  read  the  teachings  of 
our  Heavenly  Father  that  come  to  us 
through  His  servants,  that    are  pub- 
lished in  that,  paper.      Do  not  allow 
your  selfishness  and  your  penuriousness 
to  cause  you,  in  order  to  save  two  dol- 
lars, to  not  have  the  inspiration  of  the 
Lord  through  His  servants,    as  pub- 
lished in  that  paper.     Sustain  this  pa- 
per.    Why?     Because  it  is  yours.  Be- 
cause the  Prophet  of  God  desires  its 
success;  because  it  is  fighting  for  Zion, 
and  because  it  desires  the  triumph  of 
Zion.     Sustain  every  other  good  insti- 
tution and  God  will  bless    you,  which 
may  He  do,  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 

The  gifts  of  God  of  great  worth- Salvation  conies 
through  obedience— How  a  testimony  of  the 
truth  can  be  obtained. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  pray  that 
the   spirit   of   our  Father  who   is  in 
heaven  may  rest  upon  me  while  I  ad- 
dress you  this  morning.   I  have  listened 
with  much  interest  to  the  remarks  that 
have  bee"h  made  by  the  various  speak- 
ers during  this  conference,  and  I  feel 
that  I  can  heartily  bear  testimony  to 
all  that  has  been  said.    No  doubt  the 
remarks  of  Elder  Grant  will  be  appre- 
ciated by  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
they  have  had  the  effect  to  draw  my 
mind  to  another  phase  of  the  Church 
and  Kingdom  of  God. 

I  observe  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints  a  very  great  improvement  during 
the  last  twelve  months  in  the  payment 
of  their  tithing,  in  their  attendance  at 


ELDER  JOHN  Jf.  TAYLOR. 


25 


meeting's,  and  in  the  performance  of 
other  duties.  I  have  been  a  little  in 
the  world,  and  I  find  a  great  many 
good  people  among  them.  I  notice  that 
people  pay  their  donations  according 
to  the  covenants  that  they  have  made 
in  their  denomination,  and  they  build 
vast  churches,  costing  millions  of  dol- 
lars. I  find  organizations  and  charita- 
ble institutions  that  support  thousands 
of  people,  and  I  find  communities  where 
they  pour  out  their  wealth  in  millions 
for  the  benefit  of  unfortunate  and  suf- 
fering humanity.  I  find  thousands  and 
millions  of  people  who  are  thoroughly 
devoted  to  the  faith  they  have  espoused. 
I  speak  of  this  in  order  that  I  may 
draw  to  the  attention  of  the  young 
and  rising  generation  a  feature  con- 
nected with  this  work  that  is  spiritual. 
I  want  the  young  and  all  who  are  be- 
fore me  to  understand  that  the  remarks 
of  Elder  Grant  have  not  been  intended 
to  detract  from  the  spiritual  rights  and 
privileges  which  the  Latter-day  Saints 
should  enjoy.  I  am  going  to  take  the 
liberty  to  read  to  you  a  little  from  the 
holy  Scriptures.  I  will  read  you  the  tes- 
timony of  Moroni  the  Prophet.  But  be- 
fore doing  so,  I  want  to  tell  you  this: 
There  is  only  one  difference  -  between 
the  Latter-day  Saints  and  the  denom- 
inations of  the  world,  as  far  as  I  have 
been  able  to  observe,  and  that  differ- 
ence lies  in  the  fact  that  this  people 
believe  in  continual  revelation  from  God 
the  Eternal  Father,  in  the  gifts  and 
blessings  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  in 
various  other  blessings  which 
the  Lord  has  promised  '  to  the 
faithful  in  this  generation.  And  let  me 
tell  you,  whenever  the  absence  of  these 
gifts  and  blessings  and  the  administra- 
tion of  holy  angels  occurs  among  this 
people  this  is  not  the  people  of  God.  I 
speak  this  in  order  that  the  young  may 
understand  it.  The  children  of  men 
had  not  heard  or  seen  God  the  Eternal 
Father  or  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  for 
eighteen  hundred  years,  and  this  con- 
gregation before  me  today  would  never 
have  come  here  had  not  God  the  Eter- 
nal Father  and  the  holy  angels  visited 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  want  to 
bear  testimony  to  one  thing:  Where 
one  man  who  has  had  the  privilege  of 
the  gift  of  the  administration  of  angels, 


where  one  man  who  has  enjoyed  the 
gift  of  prophecy,  or  the  gift  of  healing, 
or  the  gift  of  miracles,  or  any  of  these 
divine  gifts,  which  God  promised  the 
believer  in  the  last  days — where  one 
such  man  has  left  this  Church,  there 
have  been  fifty  leave  it  who  have  not 
had  these  gifts.  That  is  my  testimony 
unto  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 
When  one  of  the  sons  or  daughters  of 
God  is  born  of  the  water  and  spirit, 
he  or  she  is  chosen  of  God  the  Eternal 
Father,  and  while  Satan,  as  Elder  Grant 
has  said,  will  make  a  ten-fold  exertion 
to  overcome  such,  nevertheless  God  has 
given  them  a  testimony  and  it  is  burn- 
ing in  their  hearts;  and  you  will  find, 
if  you  reckon  as  between  those  who 
have  received  a  gift  of  God  and  those 
who  have  not,  that  there  will  be  fifty 
of  the  latter  class  to  one  of  the  former 
who  will  wander  away  from  that 
straight  and  narrow  path  which  Jesus 
Christ  commanded  the  children  of  men 
to  walk  in.  There  are  different  phases 
to  every  question,  and  I  feel  strongly 
impressed  to  read  the  testimony  of  the 
Prophet  Moroni: 

'•Behold  I  would  exhort  you  that  when 
ye  shall  read  these  things,  if  it  be  wis- 
dom in  God  that  ye  should  read  them, 
that  ye  would  remember  how  merciful 
the  Lord  hath  been  unto  the  children 
of  men,  from  the  creation  of  Adam, 
even  down  until  the  time  that  ye  shall 
receive  these  things,  and  ponder  it  in 
your  hearts. 

"And  when  ye  shall  receive  these 
things,  T  would  exhort  you  that  you 
would  ask  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  in 
the  name  of  Christ,  if  these  things  are 
not  true;  and  if  ye  shall  ask  with  a 
sincere  heart,  with  real  intent,  having 
faith  in  Christ,  He  will  manifest  the 
truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power  of 
the  Holy  Ghost; 

"And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
ye  may  know  the  truth  of  all  things. 

"And  whatsoever  thing  is  good,  is 
just  and  true,  wherefore,  nothing  that 
is  good  denieth  the  Christ,  but  ac- 
knowledged that  He  is. 

"And  ye  may  know  that  He  is,  by  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost;  wherefore  I 
would  exhort  you,  that  ye  deny  not 
the  power  of  God;  for  He  worketh  by 
power,  according  to  the  faith  of  the 
children  of  men,  the  same  today  and 
tomorrow,  and  forever. 

"And  again  .1  exhort  you,  my  breth- 
ren, that  ye  deny  not  the  gifts  of  God, 
for  they  are  many;  and  they  come  from 


26 


GEAERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  same  God.  And  there  are  different 
ways  that  these  gifts  are  administered; 
but  it  is  the  same  God  that  worketh 
all  in  all;  and  they  are  given  by  the 
manifestations  of  the  Spirit  of  God  unto 
men,  to  profit  them. 

"For  behold,  to  one  is  given  by  the 
Spirit  of  God,  that  he  may  teach  the 
word  of  wisdom." 

What  a  great  and  glorious  gift  the 
gift  of  wisdom  is.  How  nicely  these 
subjects  have  been  arranged,  the  Lord 
placing  the  gift  of  wisdom  above  all 
the  other  gifts. 

"And  to  another,  that  he  may  teach 
the  word  of  knowledge  by  the  same 
spirit." 

That  knowledge  which  has  been  re- 
ferred to  by  Elder  Grant,  that  we  may 
know  that  God  lives,  not  by  the  testi- 
mony of  men,  but  by  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  revealed  unto  us  from  God 
the  Eternal  Father,  as  referred  to  also 
by  President  Snow  yesterday. 

"And  to  another,  exceeding  great 
faith;  and  to  another,  the  gift  of  heal- 
ing by  the  same  Spirit. 

"And  again,  to  another,  that  he  may 
work  mighty  miracles; 

"And  again,  to  another,  that  he  may 
prophesy  concerning  all  things; 

"And  again,  to  another,  the  beholding 
of  angels  and  ministering  spirits; 

"And  again,  to  another,  all  kinds  of 
tongues; 

"And  again,  to  another,  the  interpre- 
tation of  languages  and  of  divers  kinds 
of  tongues. 

"And  all  these  gifts  come  by  the 
Spirit  of  Christ;  and  they  come  unto 
every  man  severally,  according  as  he 
will. 

"And  I  would  exhort  you,  my  be- 
loved brethren,  that  ye  remember  that 
every  good  gift  cometh  of  Christ. 

"And  I  would  exhort  you,  my  beloved 
brethren,  that  ye  remember  that  He 
is  the  same  yesterday,  today  and  for- 
ever, and  that  all  these  gifts  of 
which  I  have  spoken,  which 
are  spiritual,  never  will  be 
done  away,  even  as  long 
as  the  world  shall  stand,  only  accord- 
ing to  the  unbelief  of  the  children  of 
men. 

"Wherefore,  there  must  be  faith;  and 
if  there  must  be  faith,  there  must  also 
be  hope;  and  if  there  must  be  hope, 
there  must  also  be  charity; 

"And  except  ye  have  charity,  ye  can 
in  no  wise  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of 
God;  neither  can  ye  be  saved  in  the 
kingdom  of  God.  if  ye  have  not  faith; 
neither  can  ye  if  ye  have  no  hope; 

"And  if  ye  have  no  hope,  ye  must 
needs  be  in  despair;  and  despair  com- 
eth because  of  iniquity. 


"And  Christ  truly  said  upon  our  fath- 
ers, if  ye  have  faith,  ye  can  do  all 
things  which  is  expedient  unto  me. 

"And  now  I  speak  unto  all  the  ends 
of  the  earth,  that  if  the  day  cometh 
that  the  power  and  gifts  of  God  shall 
be  done  away  among  you,  it  shall  be 
because  of  unbelief. 

"And  wo  be  unto  the  children  of  men, 
if  this  be  the  case;  for  there  shall  be 
none  that  doeth  good  among  you,  no 
not  one.  For  if  there  be  one  among 
you  that  doeth  good,  he  shall  work  by 
the  power  and  gifts  of  God. 

"And  wo  unto  them  who  shall  do  these 
things  away  and  die,  for  they  die  in 
their  sins,  and  they  cannot  be  saved 
in  the  Kingdom  of  God;  and  I  speak  it 
according  to  the  words  of  Christ,  and 
I  lie  not. 

"And  I  exhort  you  to  remember  these 
things;  for  the  time  speedily  cometh 
that  ye  shall  know  that  I  lie  not,  for 
ye  shall  see  me  at  the  bar  of  God,  and 
the  Lord  God  will  say  unto  you,  Did  I 
not  declare  mv  words  unto  you,  which 
were  written  by  this  man,  like  as  one 
crying  from  the  dead?  yea,  even  as 
one  speaking  out  of  the  dust?" 

I  have  taken  the  liberty  of  reading 
this  testimony  of  Moroni  the  Prophet. 
Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  bore  the 
same  testimony,  as  recorded  in  the 
book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  Paul 
the  Apostle  bore  the  same  testimony 
to  the  Corinthians  and  Ephesians  in  his 
day.  I  want  to  say,  however,  that 
while  these  gifts  and  blessings  are  the 
right  and  privilege  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  we  should  not  depend  upon  them 
for  our  salvation  in  the  kingdom  of 
God.  The  gift  of  prophecy  will  not 
save  any  man.  It  is  not  a  saving  prin- 
ciple; it  is  a  gift.  It  is  to  comfort  our 
hearts.  It  is  to  give  us  the  testimony 
of  the  mind  and  will  of  God  concerning 
things  which  are  to  come.  As  Elder 
Grant  has  said,  I  may  prophesy  from 
now  till  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man, 
and  if  I  fail  to  keep  the  commandments, 
I  will  not  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of 
God.  Neither  do  I  believe  that  it  is 
possible  for  a  man  to  be  saved  in  the 
kingdom  of  God  without  being  born 
of  the  water  and  of  the  spirit.  But  this 
people  can  no  more  live  spiritu- 
ally without  these  gifts  and 
blessings  and  inspirations  from 
our  Father  than  you  can  live 
a  month  without  eating.  You 
will  die  a  spiritual  death,  and  there  will 
be  nothing  left  of  you  in  the  kingdom  of 
God  but  a  dead  form.    As  the  Prophet 


ELDER  JOHN.  W.  TAYLOR 


has  said,  the  letter  killeth,  but  the  spirit 
giveth  light. 

Now  the  time  will  come  when  we  will 
not  need  any  of  these  gifts,  but  we  do 
need  them  today  very  badly.  I  tell  you 
that  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  there 
is  a  famine  for  the  spiritual  gifts  of 
God.  That  is  my  testimony  unto  you. 
These  gifts  and  blessings  are  enjoyed 
among  this  people,  but  we  do  not  enjoy 
them  to  that  fullness  that  we  will  when 
we  come  up  to  the  standard  of  keep- 
ing the  commandments  that  Elder 
Grant  has  referred  to.  We  will  have 
to  do  these  things  little  by  little.  We 
will  receive  line  upon  line,  precept  upon 
precept,  here  a  little  and  there  a  little, 
until  we  can  enjoy  the  fullness  of  the 
measure  of  the  stature  of  Christ.  I  tes- 
tify to  you,  in  corroboration  of  what 
Elder  Grant  has  said,  that  just  in  pro- 
portion to  the  performance  of  your  du- 
ties in  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God, 
you  will  enjoy  the  gifts  and  blessings 
of  the  Holy  Spirit,  if  you  desire  them. 
These  gifts  and  blessings  will  not  come 
unto  the  children  of  men  as  an  ordinary 
every-day  affair.  Any  man  that  re- 
ceives a  gift  from  God  will  have  to  get 
it  by  earnestly  seeking  after  the  Fa- 
ther. As  Paul  the  Apostle  says,  "He 
that  cometh  to  God  must  believe  that 
He  is  and  that  He  is  a  rewarder  of  them 
that  diligently  seek  him."  Paul  also, 
in  speaking  of  these  gifts,  says 
that  "when  that  which  is  per- 
fect is  come,  that  which  is  in  part  shall 
be  done  away."  Bless  your  soul,  when 
Jesus  Christ  comes  to  reign  in  right- 
eousness on  the  earth,  we  will  not  have 
to  speak  in  other  languages.  Why? 
Because  the  original  language  will  be 
given  unto  this  people,  and  we  will  all 
speak  in  one  tongue.  We  will  not  have 
to  say  to  others,  "Know  ye  the  Lord; 
for  all  will  know  Him  from  the 
least  unto  the  greatest."  The  gifts  of 
God  and  the  knowledge  of  Jesus  Christ 
will  be  upon  every  man,  woman  and 
child.  We  will  not  need  this  gift  of 
knowledge,  so  that  we  can  testify  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  for  He  will  be  with 
us.  The  brightness  and  joy  of  His 
presence  will  be  in  our  midst.  We  will 
not  need  the  gift  of  the  administration 
of  angels,  because  the  holy  angels  will 
be  in  our  presence,  and  will  be  minis- 
tering servants  unto  the  righteous  that 
live  either  on  this  or  some  other  world, 


as  today  they  visit  this  earth  from  the 
throne  of  God  the  Eternal  Father.  You 
will  not,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in 
that  day,  need  the  gift  of  the  interpre- 
tation of  tongues,  because  everybody 
will  understand  the  same  language.  It 
will  not  be  necessary  to  have  the  gift 
of  healing,  because  we  will  not  need  to 
be  healed,  for  we  will  be  sound  and  per- 
fect. Thus  I  might  go  on  and  enumer- 
ate each  of  the  gifts.  They  will  all  be 
done  away  with  when  that  which  is 
perfect  is  come.  For  these  blessings 
are  only  in  part.  They  are  given  to  us 
now, — what  for?  Jesus  said  to  His 
disciples  that  when  He  was  gone  He 
would  send  them  the  Comforter,  which 
is  the  Holy  Ghost,  to  comfort  their 
hearts.  Brethren  and  sisters,  in  our 
weak  and  feeble  condition,  with  the 
vicissitudes  of  life  upon  us,  when  we 
come  together  in  our  fast  meetings, 
does  it  not  comfort  our  hearts  to  see  a 
man  or  a  woman  enjoying  a  gift  of  God 
and  getting  up  and  exercising  it?  It 
fills  our  souls  with  joy,  it  renews  our 
spirits,  and  we  go  forth  with  greater 
courage,  power  and  determination  to 
carry  out  all  these  commandments  that 
Brother  Grant  has  referred  to. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  speak- 
ing about  the  various  gifts  of  God, 
Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  said  that  the 
greatest  gift  of  God  is  the  gift  of  salva- 
tion. Yes,  and  the  way  to  be  saved  is  to 
keep  the  commandments  of  God.  I  ex- 
hort you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
seek  for  the  best  gifts,  but  not  to  put 
your  dependence  upon  them.  You  may 
raise  a  man  from  the  dead  by  the  pow- 
er of  God,  and  that  will  not  save  the 
man  you  raise  up  and  it  will  not  save 
you.  You  may  prophesy  concerning  all 
things  till  the  winding  up  scene,  and  if 
you  do  not  keep  the  commandments  of 
God  the  words  of  Jesus  will  be  reiterat- 
ed unto  you  "not  every  one  that  saith 
unto  me,  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into 
the  kingdom  of  heaven;  but  he  that 
doeth  the  will  of  my  Father  which  is  in 
heaven."   For  the  Savior  declared: 

"Many  will  say  to  me  in  that  day.Lord 
Lord,  have  we  not  prophesied  in  thy 
name?  and  in  thy  name  cast  out  devils? 
and  in  thy  name  done  many  wonderful 
works? 

"And  then  will  I  confess  unto  them,  I 
never  knew  you:  Depart  from  me,  ye 
that  work  iniquity." 

I  make  this  quotation  in  order  that 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


you  may  see  the  force  and  application 
of  Elder  Grant's  remarks,  for  I  desire 
to  bear  testimony  to  them.  At  the 
same  time,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
desire  that  every  son  and  daughter  of 
God  who  is  under  the  sound  of  my  voice, 
should  understand  that  the  difference 
between  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  the 
rest  of  the  children  of  men  is  that  God 
the  Eternal  Father  does  not  bestow  up- 
on them  the  power  of  His  Holy  Spirit 
and  a  knowledge  of  Jesus  Christ  as  He 
has  upon  this  people.  We  are  the  only 
people  living  on  the  race  of  this  earth, 
out  of  fourteen  hundred  millions  of  peo- 
ple, upon  whom  the  gift  of  knowledge 
has  been  poured  out,  to  know  that  God 
lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  His  Son,  and 
that  we  have  inspired  men  in  our  midst. 

In  the  conclusion  of  my  remarks,  I 
desire  to  say  unto  the  young  men  and 
young  women,  and  to  the  strangers  that 
may  be  in  our  midst,  that  all  men,  as 
Brother  Grant  has  said,  may  know  that 
God  lives,  if  they  will  keep  His 
commandments.  This  is  a  great  and 
glorious  privilege.  Peter  the  Apostle 
says: 

"Add  to  your  faith  virtue;  and  to  vir- 
tue knowledge; 

"And  to  knowledge  temperance;  and 
to  temperance  patience;  and  to  patience 
godliness; 

"And  to  godliness  brotherly  kindness; 
and  to  brotherly  kindness  charity; 

"For  if  those  things  be  in  you,  and 
abound,  they  make  you  that  ye  be 
neither  barren  nor  unfruitful  in  the 
knowledge  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ." 

I  promise  you  that  if  you  will  keep 
the  commandments  of  God,  repent  of 
your  sins,  go  into  the  waters  of  baptism 
and  make  covenant  with  the  Father 
that  you  will  obey  him,  you  shall  be 
born  of  water  and  of  the  spirit,  and 
that  spirit  of  revelation,  so  beautifully 
referred  to  here  by  our  Prophet,  Seer 
and  Revelator  yesterday,  will  come 
upon  you,  and  you  will  know  that  God 
lives,  that  you  are  the  creation  of  his 
hands,  and  that  you  shall  have  eternal 
life,  if  you  will  continue  to  keep  his 
commandments. 

I  feel  to  bless  you  all  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  with  every  blessing  that  is 
for  your  good,  and  I  pray  that  our 
hearts  may  be  inclined  to  keep  his 
commandments,  that  we  may  be  saved 
and  exalted  in  his  kingdom.  My  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  there  is  nothing  that  is 


temporal  in  the  sight  of  God.  It  is  all 
spiritual  in  his  sight.  May  God  bless 
you,  may  we  acknowledge  his  hand  in 
all  things,  that  we  may  be  crowned 
heirs  of  glory,  immortality  and  eternal 
life.  My  testimony  unto  you  is  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  an  inspired  Prophet 
of  the  living  God.  I  testify  unto  you 
that  we  have  a  prophet  in  our  midst 
today,  who  receives  the  revelations  of 
Jesus  Christ  for  this  people.  I  testify 
unto  you  that  God  the  Eternal  Father 
never  will  have  a  people  upon  the  earth, 
excepting  he  has  a  Prophet,  Seer  and 
Revelator  to  reveal  his  mind  and  will 
unto  them.  For  the  Savior  has  said, 
"Thou  shalt  not  live  by  bread  ,  alone, 
but  by  every  word  that  proceedeth  from 
the  mouth  of  God."  My  testimony  is 
that  God  lives,  that  he  has  prophets 
here  upon  the  earth,  that  he  has 
bestowed  the  gifts  and  bless- 
ings upon  this  people,  and  all 
men  are  called  upon  to  keep 
His  commandments,  or  they  cannot  be 
saved  and  exalted  in  His  kingdom.  I 
rejoice  to  be  in  your  presence.  I  re- 
joice in  every  blessing  that  I  enjoy. 
I  feel  to  acknowledge  the  hand  of  the 
Lord  in  the  prosperity  of  this  people. 
He  has  turned  aside  the  shafts  of  the 
enemy,  and  every  weapon  that  is 
formed  against  Zion  does  not  prosper. 
Zion  is  going  to  rise  and  shine,  and  it 
will  become  the  glory  of  the  whole 
earth.  The  Gentiles  will  come  from 
the  ends  of  the  earth,  and  kings 
to  the  brightness  of  her  rising,  and  they 
will  say,  as  the  Prophet  Jeremiah  de- 
clared: "Surely  our  fathers  have  in- 
herited lies,  vanity,  and  things  where- 
in there  is  no  profit."  May  we  live  to 
be  faithful  and  be  in  readiness  for  the 
coming:  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  is  near 
our  doors.  For  behold,  he  will  come  in 
the  clouds  of  heaven,  with  ten  thousand 
of  His  Saints,  and  to  those  who  are 
righteous  will  he  arise  as  with  healing 
in  His  wings;  but  "all  the  proud,  yea, 
and  all  that  do  wickedly  shall  be  stub- 
ble: and  the  day  that  cometh  shall  burn 
them  up,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  that 
it  shall  leave  them  neither  root  nor 
branch."  My  testimony  is  that  when 
you  take  all  the  proud  and  all  they  that 
do  wickedly  from  among  the  children  of 
men,  there  will  not  be  many  left.  God 
bless  you.  Amen. 


ELDER  MARRINER  U>  MERRILL. 


29 


ELDER  M.  W.  MERRILL. 

The  preservation  of  families  in  the  faith— The 
Counsels  of  the  Priesthood  should  be  regarded 
—Secret  Societies  shouH  b"  avoided— Unprofit- 
able amusements  should  not  be  indulged  in — 
Further  improvement  in  Tithe-paying  needed. 

I  think,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
I  realize  in  part  the  responsibility  of 
standing  before  you  to  say  a  few  words. 
I  have  nothing  particularly  on  my  mind 
at  this  time,  but  depend  for  what  I  may 
say  upon  the  Lord  and  your  faith  and 
attentic^i. 

I  can  testify  that  this  work  is  true.  I 
know  it  is  from  the  Lord.  I  can  tes- 
tify that  the  hand  of  the  Lord  has  been 
over  His  people  from  the  organization 
of  the  Church,  seventy  years  ago,  and 
when  I  reflect  upon  my  own  condition, 
I  feel  very  grateful  in  my  heart  that  I 
have  been  made  to  see  the  truth  of  this 
work  and  I  have  been  able  thus  far 
to  retain  a  membership  in  the  Church 
and  fellowship  with  my  brethren  and 
sisters.  I  feel  that  this  is  a  great 
blessing.  Where  people  can  retain 
their  fellowship  in  the  Church  and  not 
be  cut  off  it  certainly  is  a  great  bless- 
ing. 

I  appreciate  the  opportunity  of  meet- 
ing with  you  and  testifying  that  this  is 
the  work  of  the  Lord;,  and  thousands 
of  you  people  know  it  just  as  well  as 
I  do.  But  this  knowledge  of  the  truth 
will  not  save  us,  unless  we  abide  in  it. 
If  we  let  the  cares  of  the  world  en- 
velop our  minds  to  such  an  extent  that 
we  lose  interest  in  the  work  of  the  Lord, 
we  are  in  a  pitiful  condition.  But  if 
we  place  first  and  foremost  our  obliga- 
tions to  the  Church  then  we  have  a 
good  chance  to  remain  in  the  Church 
and  to  retain  our  fellowship  with  each 
other.  And  when  we  have  fellowship 
with  each  other,  we  have  fellowship 
with  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  which  will 
direct  us  in  all  our  ways,  and  we  will 
be  preserved  in  the  truth  with  our  fami- 
lies. Some  of  our  families  perhaps  are 
wayward.  They  do  not  do  as  we  would 
like  them  to  do.  Is  not  this  the  case 
in  many  families?   There  are  sons  and 


daughters  whose 
give  satisfaction 
and  mothers, 
do      about  it? 
best     we  can. 
that      we  have 
cause     of  their 


course     does  not 
to     their  fathers 
What      shall  we 
Do       the  very 
but     see      to  it 
not      been  the 
lack     of  integrity 


in  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  believe 
throug-n  our  faithfulness  and  our  en- 
treaties with  the  Lord  we  may  be  the 
means  not  only  of  saving  ourselves, 
but  those  the  Lord  has  entrusted  to  us 
as  sons  and  daughters.  The  Lord  is 
merciful  and  He  will  hear  our  prayers 
and  grant  our  desires  through  our  in- 
tegrity for  him  and  his  work.  And  per- 
adventure,  through  our  faithfulness,  our 
children  who  are  wayward  and  who 
perhaps  have  strayed  away,  will  come 
back  to  the  fold  bye  and  bye,  because 
the  Lord  will  hear  us  in  their  behalf. 

Perhaps  there  are  many  things  among 
the  Latter-day  Saints  that  ought  not 
to  exist.    The  indifference  to  the  coun- 
sels of  God  that  was  treated  upon  yes- 
terday by  President  Cannon  is  a  matter 
that  is  known  to  the  whole  people.  We 
know  that  such  conditions  should  not 
exist    among    the  Latter-day  Saints. 
There  should  be  no  necessity  whatever 
for  these  things  to  be  referred  to  by 
any  Elders  of  the  Church,  because  as 
Latter-day  Saints  we  should  live  far 
above  them.   We  should  honor  the  Lord 
and  His  Priesthood  and  His  work.  We 
should  set  this  example  to  our  families, 
to  our  neighbors  and  to  all  with  whom 
we  associate.    The  lack  of  reverence  to 
the  Priesthood  we  may  look  upon  as  a 
trifling  matter,  but  it  is  not.    It  is  not 
the  man  particularly,  it  is  the  authority 
that  God  has  bestowed  upon  the  man. 
I    am  safe    in  saying,    I  believe,  that 
there  is  no  man  who  holds  the  author- 
ity of  the  Priesthood  who  has  sought 
this  position  himself.    He  has  not  can- 
vassed for  the  support  of  the  people, 
but     he     has     been     placed     in  his 
position     because     the     Lord  want- 
ed   him    there.     Therefore     men  and 
women  who  trifle  with  these  things  and 
ignore  the  counsel  of  God,  are  treading 
upon  dangerous  ground  and  they  will 
be  brought  into  shame  and  disgrace 
before  the  people  in  the  due  time  of  the 
Lord,    unless  they  repent.    We  cannot 
afford  to  do  these  things.    Our  duty  is 
to  sustain  each  other,  sustain  this  work, 
to  be  in  harmony  with  it,  in  all  of  its 
details,    and    to   be   in  harmony  with 
God's    chosen    servants    in     all  the 
affairs  of  life.    God  will  be  with  the 
men  and  women  who  will  pursue  this 
course,  His  Spirit  and  power  will  be 
with  them,   to  sustain  them  through 
trying  times. 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  know  as  well  as  I  see  you  that  Satan 
is  abroad  and  his  ministers  are  in  the 
land  by  the  thousands.  They  are  per- 
haps in  this  tabernacle.  At  any  rate, 
they  are  in  our  midst,  and  they  are 
prompting  individuals  unknown  to 
them,  in  the  morning,  at  mid-day  and 
in  the  evening,  and  trying  to  divert 
their  minds  from  the  truth  and  from 
the  work  of  the  Lord.  They  are  trying 
to  stir  up  division  and  discord  among 
the  Saints,  and  they  succeed  in  a  meas- 
ure. We  feel  sometimes  that  it  is  do- 
ing no  particular  wrong  if  we  associate 
ourselves  with  secret  societies.  But  it 
is  drawing  us  away  from  the  work  of 
the  Lord  and  from  the  Priesthood.  Peo- 
ple who  join  these  organizations  will 
argue  that  it  is  important  for  them; 
it  is  a  sort  of  insurance  for  their  fami- 
lies; and  they  are  not  bad  things  be- 
cause there  is  nothing  bad  done  there. 
Of  course  I  do  not  know  anything 
about  that  personally.  I  speak  simply 
upon  principle,  and  from  that  stand- 
point I  know  they  are  not  productive  of 
good  to  any  Latter-day  Saint.  These 
secret  organizations  are  what  broke  up 
the  Nephite  nation,  and  there  is  one 
society  after  another  being  organized 
in  the  midst  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
And  whose  work  is  it?  Do  the  lead- 
ers of  the  Church  advise  it?  Do  they 
countenance  it?  I  do  not  know  that 
they  do.  I  know  that  I  do  not  person- 
ally endorse  any  of  these  things,  be- 
cause I  do  not  think  they  are  productive 
of  good.  On  the  contrary,  they  will 
result  in  those  who  hold  the  Priesthood 
losing  the  spirit  of  that  Priesthood  and 
going  into  darkness.  The  Lord  has 
given  us  the  most  complete  organiza- 
tion there  is  in  the  world.  You  cannot 
find  anything  like  it  anywhere.  It  is 
a  safe-guard  and  an  insurance  to 
the  people.  Who  among  all'  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  is  allowed  to  suffer. 
If  the  husband  should  be 
taken  away,  if  any  of  the  family  should 
be  taken  away,  are  those  remaining  not 
provided  for?  Why,  tens  of  thousands 
of  dollars  of  your  tithes  and  offerings 
go  to  provide  for  the  needy.  Hence  in 
the  Church  of  God  there  is  no  necessity 
for  any  of  its  members  being  associat- 
ed with  secret  societies.  There  are  peo- 
ple, of  course,  who  do  not  belong  to  the 
Church  living  in  our  midst;  they  may 


associate  with  any  society  they  please. 
But  for  Elders  of  Israel,  some  of  whom 
have  traversed  the  earth  in  preaching 
the  Gospel,  to  lay  down  their  Priesthood 
and  join  secret  societies,  it  is  different. 
Are  there  any  cases  of  this  kind  in  the 
midst  of  the  people?  I  hope  not,  but  I 
fear  that  there  are  such  cases.  Hence 
I  warn  my  brethren  and  sisters,  es- 
pecially the  young,  that  these  organiza- 
tions are  not  for  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
They  belong  to  the  world  and^I  warn 
you  against  them.  I  would  warn  you 
mothers  to  teach  your  sons  to  live  the 
Gospel  and  its  principles  and  to  identify 
themselves  with  the  organizations  of 
the  Church.  We  have  organizations  that 
take  in  all  the  people,  from  the  child  to 
those  who  are  a  hundred  years  old, 
and  in  them  we  have  all  that  we  can 
possibly  attend  to.  Some  of  the  breth- 
ren spoke  yesterday  about  people  being 
away  so  much  from  their  families. 
Well,  I  do  not  know,  but  if  all  our  or- 
ganizations were  attended  to  properly, 
it  would  take  the  fathers  away  a  great 
deal.  However,  as  Solomon  said,  there 
is  a  time  for  all  things.  There  is  time 
to  instruct  our  children  and  to  asso- 
ciate with  our  families,  if  we  would 
divide  our  labors  properly,  *  and  not 
waste  any  of  our  time  in  associating 
ourselves  with  organizations  wherein 
there  is  no  rjrofit. 

There  are  a  great  many  amusements 
introduced  among  the  Latter-day  Saints 
wherein  there  is  no  profit.  People  get 
together  and  indulge  in  card  playing.  I 
do  not  know  personally  that  there  is 
any  particular  wrong  in  playing 
cards,  but  it  is  the  example  and 
the  fascination  about  it  which 
leads  to  gambling,  and  this  has  ruined 
many  men  and  families.  It  leads  to 
drink  and  to  many  other  evils.  Hence, 
when  I  see  published  in  the  paper  what 
a  nice  time  so-and-so  had  at  high  five, 
or  some  other  game,  I  wonder  if  there 
was  any  profit  in  the  game  to  those  peo- 
ple who  assembled.  I  believe  in  social 
gatherings,  such  as  family  gatherings, 
and  gatherings  of  the  Saints,  where 
they  meet  together  and  talk  good  things 
and  rejoice  together  in  the  truth.  I  be- 
lieve such  gatherings  are  profitable; 
but  when  the  table  is  set  with  intoxi- 
cants, I  do  not  think  they  result  in 
good.    We  should  not  encourage  our 


ELDER  MARRINER   IV.  MERRILL. 


31 


families  to  engage  in  these  things,  be- 
cause they  lead  to  evil  and  away  from 
the  Lord  and  the  influence  of  His  Spirit. 
There  are  plenty  of  good  and  profitable 
things  to  engage  in;  and  these  things 
that  are  not  profitable,  let  us  not  par- 
ticipate in  them.  When  we  are  invited 
here  and  there  to  sociables  and  gather- 
ings, we  ought  to  consider,  is  there  go- 
ing to  be  any  profit  in  this  for  me.  Oh, 
yes;  it's  going  to  be  a  grand  thing;  we 
are  going  to  have  a  nice  program.  Well, 
I  have  thought  sometimes  that  we  are 
getting  so  much  program  that  every- 
thing will  be  run  by  program  by  and  by, 
if  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  will 
only  sanction  it.  I  heard  not  long  ago 
of  Relief  Society  meetings  having  pro- 
grams. I  asked  them  what  they  had  a 
program  for.  "Oh,  we  have  a  program 
so  as  to  make  it  interesting:."  "You 
leave  the  Lord  out,  then;  you  have  ev- 
erything cut  and  dried,  learned  by 
heart,  and  you  do  not  depend  upon  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord."  I  do  not  believe  in 
too  many  programs.  In  some  cases  we 
might  have  programs,  which  would  be 
very  nice  and  profitable.  But  to  carry 
this  to  the  extreme,  like  we  have  our 
politics,  I  think  will  work  an  injury.  I 
heard  of  a  ward  once  where  they  were 
going  to  introduce  programs  into  their 
ward  meetings.  I  do  not  believe  in  that. 
I  think  we  can  have  a  ward  meeting 
without  a  program,  and  we  will  depend 
upon  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  direct 
what  shall  be  said  and  done. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  there  are 
many  things  that  we  can  improve  in. 
We  can  improve  in  our  tithes  and  our 
offerings.  Who  is  there  in  all  Israel 
that  cannot  improve  a  little  in  this  di- 
rection? Peradventm-e  there  may  be  a 
few  that  observe  the  law  of  the  Lord 
strictly;  but  I  tell  you  the  large  major- 
ity of  the  Latter-day  Saints  do  not,  al- 
though there  has  been  great  improve- 
ment made  among  the  people.  Further 
improvement  is  in  order,  and  it  will  be 
well  for  us  to  do  a  little  better  this  year 
than  we  did  last  year.  If  we  cannot  do 
any  more  ourselves,  we  might  convert 
others  to  pay  their  tithing,  if  we  will 
take  pains  to  reason  with  them,  that 
they  might  not  be  burned  in  the  day  of 
the  Lord  Almighty.  It  is  said  that  they 
that  are  tithed  shall  not  be  burned,  in- 
ferring that  they  that  are  not 
tithed     may     be     burned.     This  is 


a  law  of  the  Lord.  It  was  not  insti- 
tuted by  man.  President  Snow  did  not 
inaugurate  this  principle.  The  Lord 
revealed  it  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  and 
it  is  expected  that  all  Latter-day  Saints 
will  observe  this  law  of  the  Lord.  I 
want  to  bear  testimony  that  you  who 
observe  this  law  strictly  will  be  blessed 
of  the  Lord.  He  will  multiply  you  and 
your  means  shall  be  increased  unto  you, 
because  you  have  obeyed  the  law  of  the 
Lord  and  you  are  entitled  to  have  the 
windows  of  heaven  opened  unto  you  and 
blessings  poured  out  upon  you.  But  do 
not  become  faint-hearted  or  discour- 
aged because  you  do  not  receive  every- 
thing today  that  you  expect;  but  trust 
in  the  Lord,  and  so  sure  as  you  continue 
to  trust  in  the  Lord  the  way  will  be 
opened  up  from  time  to  time  and  means 
will  be  multiplied  upon  you.  Above  all 
things,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us 
resolve  in  our  hearts  that  from  this 
time  forward  we  will  observe  the  law  of 
the  Lord,  we  will  be  consistent  in  our 
lives  as  Latter-day  Saints,  and  we  will 
try  to  educate  ourselves  to  love  one 
another,  to  love  the  work  of  God,  to  love 
His  Priesthood,  to  reverence  and  obey 
them,  and  to  walk  in  the  light  that  God 
may  sustain  us  and  give  us  the  victory, 
which  He  will  do,  if  we  will  only  do 
these  things. 

How  many  of  you  Latter-day  Saints 
neglect  your  prayers?  How  many  fail 
to  call  your  families  together  in  the 
morning  and  in  the  evening,  or  have 
you  so  much  to  do  that  you  cannot  at- 
tend to  it?  Do  you  have  to  go  to  some 
secret  organization,  and  you  have  not 
time  for  family  prayers?  I  want  to 
advise  you  personally  to  drop  all  these 
organizations  wherein  there  is  no 
profit;  associate  yourselves  with  things 
wherein  there  is  profit,  wherein  you 
may  have  more  influence  with  your 
households,  in  persuading  them  to  obey 
the  laws  of  the  Lord.  There  are  a  great 
many  things  for  Latter-day  Saints  to 
do,  and  we  know  what  is  best  to  be 
done  if  we  will  only  sit  down  and  think 
about  it.  Let  us  consider  our  condi- 
tion before  the  Lord  and  place  our- 
selves in  the  position  of  the  Prophet 
who  said,  "Search  me,  O  God,  and  know 
my  heart;  try  me,  and  know  my 
thoughts;  and  see  if  there  be  any  wick- 
ed way  in  me,  and  lead  me  in  the  way 
everlasting."      Why  cannot  we  adopt 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


that  sentiment?  If  we  will  do  so,  and 
observe  these  things,  we  will  be  glad  of 
it  by  and  by.  When  we  get  through 
with  this  short  career  of  ours,  and  we 
look  back  upon  our  lives,  if  we  have 
kept  the  commandments  of  God,  what 
joy  and  satisfaction  it  will  be  to  us. 
We  shall  go  in  peace  and  associate  with 
the  just  behind  the  veil. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  attend  to  the 
duties  that  pertain  to  your  calling  in 
the  ministry,  and  let  everything  else 
take  care  of  itself.  God  bless  you,  and 
lead  us  all  in  the  paths  of  life,  is  my 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang: 
Let  the  mountains  shout  for  joy, 
and  the  congregation  joined  in  singing 
the  Doxology. 

Benediction  by  Patriarch  John  Smith. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  hymn:  Praise  to  the  man  who 
communed  with  Jehovah! 

Prayer  by  Elder  B.  H.  Roberts. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn:  Great  God 
attend  while  Zion  sings. 

ELDER  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

Spiritual  gifts  must  exist  in  the  Church  <>f  Christ — 
Thcdr  absence  an  indication  of  unbelief. 

I  hope,  while  I  shall  address  you,  that 
the  same  good  spirit  may  guide  me  as 
has  assisted  my  brethren  who  have  al- 
ready spoken  in  the  different  meetings 
of  this  conference.  I  have  enjoyed  their 
remarks  very  much,  and  I  believe  all 
wrho  have  been  present  have  felt  to 
rejoice  in  the  good  teachings  that  have 
been  given  us. 

This  morning,  when  Brother  John  W. 
Taylor  read  the  testimony  of  the 
Prophet  Moroni  to  us,  I  was  much 
struck  with  some  of  the  words  he  read. 
We  were  told  there  that  the  spiritual 
gifts  should  always  be  found  in  the 
Church,  and  that  if  there  ever  came  a 
time  when  these  gifts  were  not  in  the 
Church  it  would  be  on  account  of  un- 
belief; and  a  woe  was  pronounced  upon 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  if  such 
should  be  the  case.  I  thought  how  clear 
the  Prophet  Moroni  made  this;  that  the 
Church  whenever  it  is  upon  the  earth 


must  have  the  Holy  Spirit  within  it; 
the  members  of  the  Chuch  must  have 
this  Spirit,  and  the  spiritual  gifts  must 
be  manifested;  otherwise  it  would  be  a 
dead  church.  These  words  are  record- 
ed in  the  Book  of  Mormon — this  won- 
derful book  that  has  been  brought  forth 
by  the  power  of  God  in  our  age.  This 
book  was  printed  before  there 
was  a  church  organized,  and  yet  we  find 
these  remarkable  words  in  it,  which  at 
once  furnish  the  world  with  a  test 
whereby  they  can  judge  if  this  is  the 
Church  of  Christ  or  not.  It  says  that 
in  the  Church  there  must  be  found  these 
gifts.  Now,  if  Joseph  Smith  had  not 
been  an  inspired  man;  if  the  Book  of 
Mormon  was  not  the  word  of  God,  but 
written  by  man,  how  careful  such  a 
man  would  have  been  not  to  furnish 
the  world  with  a  test  like  this  where- 
by they  could  at  once  detect  whether 
it  was  the  Church  of  Christ  or  not. 
A  man  who  should  fraudulently  give 
himself  out  to  be  an  inspired  man, would 
be  careful  that  such  words  should  not 
be  given  to  the  world.  But  these  were 
not  the  words  of  Joseph;  they  were  the 
words  of  a  prophet  that  lived  some 
fourteen  hundred  years  before,  and 
one  who  understood  the  Church  of 
Christ. 

When  we  look  back  upon  the  history 
of  the  Church  we  find  that  the  spirit- 
ual gifts  were  very  abundant  in  the 
original  Church,  and  that  whenever  the 
Saints  met  they  were  much  blessed 
with  the  power  of  the  spirit.  They 
were  so  eager  to  attend  their  meetings 
and  to  speak,  prophesy,  and  talk  in 
tongues,  that  the  Apostle  Paul  had  to 
regulate  their  meetings  and  give  them 
counsel  in  regard  to  the  manner  of  con- 
ducting them,  that  order  might  prevail. 
The  Saints  were  abundantly  blessed 
with  these  manifestations  of  the  spirit. 
But  when  the  apostasy  took  place,  the 
spirit  of  the  Lord  departed,  its  mani- 
festations were  fewer,  and  at  last  they 
were  not  known  in  the  Church.  Then 
it  was  very  convenient  to  teach  -the 
people  that  revelations  were  no  longer 
needed,  that  prophets  were  not  needed; 
that  these  spiritual  gifts  were  given 
only  in  the  beginning  of  the  Church,  to 
convert  men;  but  that  they  were  not 
to  continue  with  the  members  of  the 
Church,  and  therefore  they  were  done 


ELDER  ANTHON  H  LUND. 


33 


away.  When  Jesus  appeared  to 
the  Nephites,  upon  this  continent,  He 
taught  them  the  pure  Gospel  and  or- 
ganized His  church.  He  left  this  power 
of  the  Priesthood  with  His  servants 
here,  the  same  as  He  had  with  His  ser- 
vants upon  the  Eastern  continent,  and 
the  spiritual  blessings  were  enjoyed  as 
long  as  the  Church  was  in  existence 
upon  this  continent.  Moroni  understood 
this  so  well  that  he  said  these  gifts 
must  always  be  found  in  the  Church, 
and  if  not  it  would  be  a  sign  of  unbe- 
lief. 

After  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  pub- 
lished, the  Church  was  organized,  and 
then  men  could  read  the  book  and  test 
the  words,  and  judge  whether  or  not  the 
Church  that  was  afterwards  organized 
corresponded  with  what  the  Prophet 
had  said  the  Church  should  be. 

It  was  but  a  few  days  after  the 
Church  was  organized  before  the  spirit 
uttered  itself  in  power,  and  spiritual 
manifestations  were  given  and  miracles 
performed,  showing  that  the  Church 
which  had  been  recently 
organized  was  not  an  imita- 
tion, but  that  it  was  the 
Church  itself,  containing  the  same  pow- 
er and  spiritual  blessings.  In  fact, 
this  wonderful  book  itself  was  trans- 
lated by  the  power  of  God.  Joseph 
Smith  was  an  unlearned  man;  he  had 
not  studied  at  colleges;  he  was  not 
much  of  a  writer  at  that  time,  but  had 
to  employ  others  to  write  for  him,  and 
those  who  wrote  for  him  wrote  as  he 
dictated.  Now,  you  who  have  tried  to 
dictate  to  a  person  know  how  hard  it  is 
to  dictate,  and  to  continue  to  do  this, 
without  altering  or  without  having  the 
last  sentence  repeated;  but  Joseph  dic- 
tated to  these  men,  and  was  not  under 
the  necessity  of  asking  them  where  they 
had  left  off.  because  he  translated  by 
the  power  of  God.  The  Urim  and 
Thummim  was  in  his  possession,  and 
with  this  instrument  he  was  able  to 
translate  the  characters  that  were  en- 
graven upon  the  plates.  This  was  a  mir- 
acle in  itself,  and  these  men  who  wrote 
for  him  would  soon  have  been  able  to 
detect  whether  he  was  inspired  in  the 
translation,  or  whether  it  was  his  own 
brain  that  furnished  them  the  material 
to  write.  And  let  me  say  that  no  man 
could  write  such  a  work,  if  he  were 


ever  so  gifted.  He  would  be  detected  in 
some  fault  or  other. 

The  book  has  been  given  unto  us  by 
the  Lord,  and  we  find  in  it  prophesies 
concerning  our    time    and  prophecies 
concerning  the  time  that  is  already 
past,  which  have  been  fulfilled,  proving 
the  book  to  be  an  inspired  one.  These 
gifts  which  the  book  mentions  should  be 
found  in  the  Church;  my  testimony  to 
you  is  that    they    are    found    in  the 
Church.    Talking  in  tongues  has  been 
very  common  in  the  Church.   Nearly  all 
the  members  have  at  some  time  or  an- 
other heard  this  gift,  as  well  as  the  in- 
terpretation of  tongues.  Some  may  say, 
But  how  can  we  judge  whether  this  is 
a  true  tongue  or  not?    You  can  judge, 
by  the  Holy  Spirit  whether  it  is  prompt- 
ed by  that  Spirit  or  not.    There  have 
been  times  when  the  proof  of  the  tongue 
spoken      has      been  overwhelming. 
When  President  Peterson  of  the  Sanpete 
Stake  was  a  young  man  he  attended 
a  meeting  in  Illinois.    There  were  many 
present,  and  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  was 
poured  out  upon  the  Saints  in  a  great 
measure.   He  felt  urged  by  the  spirit  to 
talk  in  tongues,  and    when    he  sat 
down  a  young  girl  arose  and  interpreted 
it.   She  was  but  seventeen  years  of  age, 
perhaps  younger,  and  she  interpreted 
what    Brother    Peterson    had  spoken. 
Some  of  the    brethren  there,  then  in 
good  standing  but  who  afterwards  left 
the  Church,  were  told  that  if  they  did 
not  take  heed  they  would  apostatize, 
and    that  the    balance   of   the  branch 
should  emigrate  to  the  West  and  travel 
in    wagons  like    houses,    across  large 
plains.    This  was  the  interpretation  of 
the  tongue.    They  did  not  then  know 
that  there  would  come  a  time  when 
they  should  travel  in  covered  wagons 
and  go  to  the  west.    But  a  remarkable 
thing  happened  at  that  meeting.  Two 
young  girls  that  had  been  stolen  while 
children,    by    the    Indians,    and  been 
brought  back  by  the  government,  were 
present.    They  heard  Brother  Peterson 
speak    in    tongues,    and  they  declared 
that    he    snoke    in  an  Indian  tongue, 
which  they  had  heard  before,  and  they 
understood  most  of  it,  though  they  said 
he  spoke  it  better  than  they  ever  heard 
the  chiefs  speak  it,  and  the  young  girl, 
they  said,  had  translated  what  they  un- 
derstood correctly.    This  is  a  great  tes- 


34 


GENERAL  COhFEREJSLE. 


timony  of  the  truth  of  that  gift,  and 
many  other  instances  could  be  men- 
tioned, showing  that  this  gift  is  in  the 
Church.  The  gift  of  prophecy  we  know 
is  in  the  Church.  How  many  of  the 
prophecies  of  our  beloved  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  have  not  been  fulfilled  to 
the  very  letter?  You  take  the  book 
of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  you 
will  find  there  many  prophecies  that 
have  been  fulfilled  already,  and  many 
relating  to  time  yet  to  come,  which  we 
believe  will  be  fulfilled  just  as  literally 
as  have  those  that  have  already  been 
fulfilled.  Let  me  read  a  few  words  of 
a  revelation  given  March,  1831,  some 
eleven  months  after  the  Church 
was  organized.  In  talking  about 
what  should  come  to  pass,  the  Lord  re- 
vealed to  Joseph: 

"But  before  the  great  day  of  the  Lord 
shall  come,  Jacob  shall  flourish  in  the 
wilderness,  and  the  Lamanites  shall 
blossom  as  the  rose. 

"Zion  shall  flourish  upon  the  hills  and 
rejoice  upon  the  mountains,  and  shall 
be  assembled  together  unto  the  place 
which  I  have  appointed." 

This  was  many  years  before  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  were  driven  from  the 
States,  and  it  talks  in  such  plain  terms 
concerning  the  gathering.  The  gather- 
ing is  a  unique  principle  in  this  Church, 
one  that  is  not  found  in  other  churches. 
It  is  referred  to  in  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
and  in  the  early  revelations  to  the 
Church  it  is  given  to  the  people  in  great 
plainness.  We  are  told  in  some  of  the 
revelations  that  the  people  should  be 
gathered  from  all  nations  unto  this 
land,  which  should  be  the  land  of  Zion. 
When  we  now  read  about  this,  it  may 
not  seem  so  remarkable.  But  let  us  put 
ourselves  back  to  the  time  when  the 
Church  numbered  but  a  few  members 
and  was  hardly  known  outside  of  a  few 
counties,  and  remember  that  then  the 
Lord  told  the  Prophet  that  the  work 
should  be  known  in  other  lands  and 
that  the  people  should  be  gathered  from 
all  nations,  and  it  becomes, indeed,  mar- 
velous unto  us.  Gradually  our  mission- 
aries are  reaching  the  different  nations 
of  the  earth,  and  we  have  people 
here  from  every  part  of  the 
earth,  if  not  yet  from  every  na- 
tion. Our  missionaries  are  going  in 
faith,  proclaiming  the  truth.  They  are 
reaching    one    people    after  another. 


Nearly  every  nation  in  Europe  has  had 
the  Gospel  offered  to  them.  I  was  read- 
ing a  letter  last  night  which  Brother 
Hintze  had  received  from  Athens. 
Greece,  a  country  where  we  have  not 
yet  done  much  missionary  labor.  Bro- 
ther Hintze  went  there  and  preached 
the  Gospel  and  the  seed  sown  is  ger- 
minating, and  they  want  to  be  informed 
concerning  the  truth.  Certain  princi- 
ples have  struck  them  as  true:  others 
they  do  not  understand  yet.  In  the 
Donaw  principalities  we  have  a  man  la 
boring,  who  has  already  baptized  sev- 
eral persons,  and  it  will  not  be  long 
before  it  can  be  said  that  all  nations  in 
Europe  have  been  informed  concern- 
ing the  Gospel.  And  the  myriads  in 
Asia  and  Africa  will  yet  have  to  hear 
the  Gospel.  The  Lord  is  in  His  mar- 
velous way  preparing  the  way  for  the 
Gospel  to  be  taught  to  men.  I  rejoice 
in  contemplating  the  dealings  of  the 
Lord  with  this  work  of  His,  and  my 
testimony  to  you  is  that  God  has  es- 
tablished this  work,  and  that  He  will 
see  that  it  shall  triumph  in  the  earth. 
God  bless  you  all,  amen. 

ELDER  M.  F.  COWLEY. 

The  Church  built  on  the  foundation  of  Continuous 
Revelation—  Each  member  entitled  to  an  in- 
dividual testimony  of  the  truth. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  pleased 
to  have  the  privilege  of  meeting  with 
you  at  this  Conference.  I  desire  in 
the  performance  of  my  duty  the  kind 
assistance  of  your  prayers  of  faith.  I 
have  been  edified  through  the  instruc- 
tions of  my  brethren.  They  have  en- 
couraged me  and  also  corrected  me,  for 
I  find  in  them  instructions  which  will 
enable  me  to  improve  wherein  I  lack, 
and  encourage  me  in  the  enjoyment  of 
the  blessings  resulting  from  the  duties 
which  perhaps  I  have  performed  more 
faithfully  than  others.  In  contemplat- 
ing the  character  of  these  instructions, 
it  is  a  solemn  testimony  to  me  of  the 
truth  of  which  my  brethren  have 
spoken,  that  the  Church  is  guided  by 
the  spirit  of  revelation.  But  we  are 
not  guided  by  the  spirit  of  revelation 
as  much  as  we  ought  to  be.  I  think 
sometimes  that  we  ha,ve  not  fully  di- 
vested ourselves  of  the  elements  of  sec- 
tarianism which  some  of  us  may  have 
brought  from  the  world  and  which  oth- 
ers have    imbibed     because    of  their 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COULEy. 


35 


weaknesses.     Our  Elders,  in  preaching 
the  Gospel  in  the  various  nations  of  the 
earth,  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  it 
has  always  been    a    characteristic  of 
humanity  to  profess    a    belief    in  the 
revelations  and  the  remarkable  mani- 
festations of  the  power  of  God  which 
have  been  exhibited  before  their  day. 
But  when  confronted  with  the  oppor- 
tunity or  necessity    of  exercising  the 
same  faith,  and    enjoying  immediate 
revelation,  they  have  been  weighed  in 
the  balance  and  found  wanting.  The 
Church  of  Christ  never  did  exist  on  the 
earth,  only  as  it  existed  by  the  spirit 
of  revelation  from    God.      The  Jews, 
when  the  Gospel  was  presented  to  them 
by  John  the  Baptist  and  also  by  the 
Savior,  had  just  the  same  opportuni- 
ties that  the  Christian  world  of  today 
have,  that  is,  of  reading  from  the  Scrip- 
ture, which    had    been    made    by  the 
Prophets      preceding        them,  and 
receiving      instructions      from  the 
doctors        of        the        law  and 
those      whose      pretended  business 
it  was  to  expound  the  Scriptures.  But 
when  one  came  to  them  and  said  that 
the  kingdom  of  God  was  nigh  at  hand, 
they  were  not  prepared  to  receive  it. 
The  Gospel  then  as  now  was  a  test  to 
all  institutions.    John  the  Baptist  said 
"The  ax  is  laid  unto  the  root  of  the 
tree,  therefore  ever--  tree  which  bring- 
eth  not  forth  good  fruit,  is  hewn  down 
and  cast  into  the  fire."    Jesus  was  de- 
siring to  bring  to  the  attention  of  His 
disciples  the  necessity  of  being  built 
upon   a   solid   foundation,     and  pro- 
pounded a  question  unto  them  as  re- 
corded in  Matthew,  16th  chapter.  He 
said:    "Whom  do  men  say  that  I,  the 
Son  of  Man,  am?"    And  His  disciples 
said,   "Some  say  that  thou  art  John 
the  Baptist;  some,  Elias:  and  others, 
Jeremiah  or  one  of  the  Prophets."  Thus 
we  see  that  it  was  all  guess  work  with 
them,  so  far  as  the  general  public  were 
concerned.    He  turned  to  the  Apostles 
and  said:    "But  whom  say  ye  that  I 
am?"    In  response  there  came  an  em- 
phatic testimony,  not  from  a  doctor  of 
the  law,  not  from  an  educated  man, 
who  had  built  his  faith  upon  a  mere 
reading  of  the  ancient  scripture,  but 
from  a  poor,  unlettered  man,  who  had 
been  called  by  the  voice  of  the  Son  of 
God  from  the  fisherman's  net,  when 


the  Messiah  had  said  to  him  and  his 
brother  Andrew  "Come  and  follow  me 
and  I  will  make  you  fishers  of  men." 
From  Peter  the  testimony  came  in  no 
uncertain  tones,  saying,  "Thou  are  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God." 
And  Jesus  said  to  Peter:  "Blessed  art 
thou,  Simon  Barjona:  for  flesh  and 
blood  hath  not  revealed  it  unto  thee, 
but  My  Father  which  is  in  heaven." 

I  wish  to  bear  my  testimony  that 
flesh  and  blood  never  did,  because  it 
never  could,  reveal  unto  man  the  iden- 
tity of  the  Son  of  God,  or  make  plain 
to  the  understanding  of  the  children  of 
men  the  things  of  God  in  any  respect; 
and  if  it  required  a  revelation  for  the 
Apostle  Peter  to  bear    witness  that 
Jesus  was  the  Christ,  it  will  require 
revelation  for  every  man  and  woman 
in    every    dispensation    of    the  Gos- 
pel,     to      bear      the      same  testi- 
mony.     Indeed,     the    Son    of  God 
enunciated  this  fact  as  an  eternal  doc- 
trine, when  he  sent  the  Seventies  out 
to  declare  the  Gospel.    He  had  com- 
manded   them    to  go  without  purse  or 
scrip,  just  as  the  servants  of  God  have 
been  commanded  in  this  dispensation, 
that  the  world  may  be  tested  and  that 
the  disciples  of  the  Son  of  God  may  act 
upon  the  principle  of  faith  and  trust  in 
God  to  provide  for  them  the  necessities 
and  comforts  of  life.   When  the  Seventy 
returned  to  the  Savior  with  the  report 
of  their  mission,  they  said  that  they 
lacked  nothing: 

"In  that  hour  Jesus  rejoiced  in  spirit, 
and  said,  I  thank  thee,  O  Father,  Lord 
of  heaven  and  earth  that  thou  hast  hid 
these  things  from  the  wise  and  prudent, 
and  hast  revealed  them  unto  babes; 
even  so,  Father,  for  so  it  seemed  good 
in  thy  sight. 

"All  things  are  delivered  to  me  of 
my  Father;  and  no  man  knoweth  who 
the  Son  is,  but  the  Father;  and  who 
the  Father  is,  but  the  Son,  and  he  to 
whom  the  Son  will  reveal  Him." 

This  is  a  plain  and  simple  doctrine, 
and  whatever  may  be  the  attainments 
of  mankind,  based  upon  the  oppor- 
tunities of  the  age  in  which  we  live, 
augmented  by  the  experience  and  the 
learning  of  the  preceding  generations, 
they  cannot  understand  the  things  of 
God,  without  the  spirit  of  revelation. 

I  wish  to  bear  my  testimony  that  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  was  founded  upon  the  principle 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


of  revelation,  and  that  it  has  been  guid- 
ed and  controlled  by  the  spirit  of  revela- 
tion from  its  inception  to  the  present 
time.  God  designed  to  guide  this 
Church  by  the  voice  of  revelation. 
When  I  see  any  lack  of  confidence  on 
the  part  of  our  people  in  the  wisdom  of 
the  Prophet  of  God  and  his  associates, 
I  am  impressed  with  the  fact  that  we 
are  lacking  in  that  faith  which  belongs 
to  the  work  of  God.  When  the  Prophet 
Joseph  "Smith  was  instrumental  in  es- 
tablishing this  work,  he  made  certain 
promises,  such  as  have  been  alluded  to 
by  my  brethren  today.  These  promises 
have  been  fulfilled  to  the  very 
letter.  They  not  only  ex- 
tended to  the  remarkable  mani- 
festation of  the  gifts  and  powers  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  but  they  extended  to  a 
promise  that  every  man  and  every  wo- 
man in  the  Church  should  have  a  sub- 
stantial testimony  concerning  the  pro- 
priety of  every  movement  made  by  the 
Prophet  of  God,  in  advancing  the  in- 
terests of  the  work  of  God  upon  the 
earth.  And  it  can  be  pointed  out  on 
the  pages  of  history  that  neither  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  nor  any  of  his 
successors  ever  gave  counsel  unto  the 
Saints  of  God  that  was  not  attended 
with  blessings  and  prosperity  to  those 
who  heeded  and  acted  upon  it.  More- 
over, it  cannbt  be  found  upon  the  pages 
of  history  where  any  man  has  risen 
up  in  opposition  to  that  counsel  and  has 
stretched  forth  his  hand  to  steady  the 
ark  of  God,  but  what  that  man  has 
come  to  disappointment  and  his  folly 
has  been  made  manifest  in  the  midst 
of  the  people  of  God.  I  can  bear  my  tes- 
timony that  these  evidences,  which 
have  been  recorded  as  a  result  of 
the  experience  of  this  Church,  will  con- 
tinue down  to  the  latest  period  of  time. 
God  has  established  this  work;  He  has 
maintained  it;  He  has  prospered  it  in 
the  earth,  and  He  will  continue  to  do  so 
from  this  time  henceforth  and  forever. 
God  bless  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

ELDER  A.  O.  WOODRUFF. 
Koom  for  improvement  among  the  Priesthood  — 
The  great  distinction  between  the  true  Church 
and  other  religious  bodies — A  difference  in 
spirit — Every  part  of  the  body  necessary  to  its 
healthful  existence — Warning  against  a  hide- 
ous evil. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  trust  that  I 
may  have  your  support  and  the  bless- 


ings of  God  to  guide  me  in  my  utter- 
ances here  this  afternoon.  I  have  no 
other  desire  in  standing  before  you  than 
to  give  you  that  which  the  Lord  may 
reveal  unto  me.  and  I  desire  to  so  live 
that  whenever  I  am  called  upon  to  oc- 
cupy a  position  of  this  kind,  the  Lord 
may  be  pleased  to  favor  me  with  His 
Holy  Spirit,  that  I  may  not  be  left  to 
depend  upon  the  wisdom  of  man. 

I  have  a  desire  this  afternoon  to  say 
some  words  that  may  be  stimulating 
and  encouraging  to  those  who  hold  the 
Priesthood,  especially  to  those  who  are 
acting  in  the  Lesser  Priesthood.  Presi- 
dent Snow  has  gone  among  the  people 
and  discharged  the  duties  which  our 
Heavenly  Father  has  given  him  to 
perform,  and  after  doing  so,  he  unloads 
a  great  degree  of  this  responsibility  up- 
on the  shoulders  of  the  Priesthood  in 
all  its  organizations.  I  know  there  is 
not  that  activity  among  many  quorums 
of  the  Priesthood  that  there  ought  to 
be;  and  while  it  is  true  the  Latter-day 
Saints  during  the  past  year  have  done 
exceedingly  well  in  the  payment  of 
their  tithes,  they  have  not  done  as  well 
as  they  would  have  done  had  the 
Teachers,  and  Priests  and  the  Elders 
in  Israel  performed  their  duties  as 
faithfully  as  President  Snow  has  dis- 
charge his.  True,  most  men  who 
hold  these  positions  are  younger  men 
than  President  Snow,  but  I  regret  to 
have  to  acknowledge  that  they  have 
not  been  as  diligent  throughout  the 
different  Stakes  and  wards  of  Zion  in 
regard  to  this  message,  which  the 
Prophet  of  the  Lord  has  given  to  the 
people,  as  they  should  have  been.  While 
visiting  a  Stake  a  short  time  ago,  I 
learned  by  questioning  the  High  Coun- 
cil, that  some  of  them  had  not  been 
visited  by  their  Teachers  for  years; 
and  while  that  Stake  had  increased 
about  fifty  per  cent  in  the 
payment  of  their  tithes  dur- 
ing the  past  year,  I  thought  to 
myself,  what  a  showing  they  might 
have  made,  if  the  Priesthood  in  all  its 
departments  had  been  active  and  faith- 
ful. 

In  order  that  I  might  bring  before 
you  what  I  desire.  I  will  read  a  portion 
of  the  12th  chapter  of  First  Corin- 
thians. 

"For  by  one  spirit  we  are  all  baptized 


ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 


37 


unto  one  body,  whether  we  be  Jews  or 
Gentiles,  whether  we  be  bond  or  free; 
and  have  all  been  made  to  drink  into 
one  spirit; 

"For  the  body  is  not  one  member  but 
many. 

*'If  the  foot  shall  say,  because  I  am 
not  the  hand,  I  am  not  of  the  body;  is  it 
therefore  not  of  the  body 

"And  if  the  ear  shall  say,  because  I 
am  not  the  eye  I  am  not  of  the  body; 
is  it  therefore  not  of  the  body? 

"If  the  whole  body  were  an  eye,  where 
were  the  hearing?  If  the  whole  were 
hearing,  where  were  the  smelling? 

"But  now  hath  the  Lord  set  thee 
members  every  one  of  them  in  the  body, 
as  it  has  pleased  Him. 

"And  if  they  were  all  one  member, 
where  were  the  body? 

"And  now  are  they  many  members, 
yet  but  one  body, 

"And  the  eye  cannot  say  unto  the 
hand,  I  have  no  need  of  thee;  nor  again, 
the  head  to  the  feet,  I  have  no  need  of 
you. 

"Nay,  much  more,  those  members  of 
the  body,  which  seem  to  be  more  feeble, 
are  necessary; 

"And  those  members  of  the  body, 
which  Ave  think  to  be  less  honorable, 
upon  these  we  bestow  more  abundant 
honor;  and  our  uncomely  Darts  have 
more  abundant  comliness. 

"For  our  comely  parts  have  no  need; 
but  God  hath  tempered  the  body  to- 
gether, having  given  more  abundant 
honor  to  that  part  which  lacked. 

"That  there  should  be  no  schism  in  the 
body;  but  that  the  members  should 
have  the  same  care  one  for  another. 

"And  whether  one  member  suffer,  all 
the  members  suffer  with  it;  or  one 
member  be  honored,  all  the  members  re- 
joice with  it. 

"Now  ve  are  the  body  of  Christ,  and 
members  in  particular. 

"And  God  hath  set  some  in  the 
Church:  first,  Apostles;  secondarily, 
prophets;  thirdlv.  teachers;  after  that 
miracles:  then  gifts  of  healing,  helps, 
governments,  diversities  of  tongues. 

"Are  all  Apostles?  are  all  prophets? 
are  all  teachers?  are  all  workers  of 
miracles? 

"Have  all  the  gifts  of  healing?  do  all 
speak  with  tongues?  do  all  interpret? 

"But  covet  earnestly  the  best  gifts: 
and  yet  shew  I  unto  you  a  more  excel- 
lent way." 

The  Church  of  Christ  was  referred  to 
here  yesterday  and  compared  to  a  man 
seventy  years  of  age,  The  Apostle  Paul 
also  in  his  beautiful  figure  compared 
the  Church  of  Christ  to  the  body  of  a 
man.  I  wish  to  say  a  few  words  re- 
garding this  figure  which  has  been  used, 
I  have  asked  myself,  what  is  the  great- 
est cause  for  the  difference  between 
the  Church  of  Christ  and  the 
churches      that      have      been  es- 


tablished by  man,  for  there  are  many 
forms  of  religion,  some  patterning  close- 
ly after  the  one  founded  by  our  Lord 
and  Master  Jesus  Christ.  And  I  have 
thought,  is  it  not  because  these  differ- 
ent bodies  have  not  the  Spirit?  I  com- 
pared this  spirit  to  the  Priesthood  of 
the  Son  of  God,  and  concluded  in  my 
own  mind  that  this  was  the  greatest 
cause  of  the  difference  which  exists  be- 
tween the  Church  which  Christ  has  es- 
tablished and  the  churches  which  have 
been  established  by  man.  When  the 
Prophet  Joseph  inquired  of  the  Lord  re- 
garding the  divinity  of  the  different  de- 
nominations that  then  existed  upon  the 
earth,  and  many  of  which  exist  today, 
he  was  told  that  they  had  a'  form  of 
godliness,  but  denied  the  power  thereof; 
that  they  drew  near  unto  the  Lord  with 
their  lips,  but  their  hearts  were  far 
from  Him.  I  thought  to  myself  what 
a  comparison  there  was  between  the 
true  Church  of  God,  with  the  Priest- 
hood and  Spirit  to  enliven  it,  and  the 
dead  forms  of  religion,  as  they  have 
been  instituted  by  men.  We  might 
carry  this  comparison  a  little  farther, 
and  take  the  skeleton  of  this 
body,  the  organization  of  the 
Church  of  Christ,  animated  by  the 
Spirit  and  Priesthood  of  God,  and  in 
connection  with  this  skeleton  we  have 
the  sinews,  the  helps  in  government, 
the  muscles,  the  nerve  system  and  the 
circulation  of  the  blood  from  the  heart 
into  all  parts  of  the  body.  And  just 
as  it  is  impossible  for  a  human  body  to 
exist  without  the  spirit,  so  is  it  im- 
possible for  the  Church  of  Christ  to  ex- 
ist without  the  Priesthood  of  the  Son  of 
God.  Just  as  it  is  imposible  for  a  body 
to  be  complete  without  the  brain,  the 
heart  and  the  other  organs  of  the  sys- 
tem, so  would  it  be  impossible  for  the 
Church  of  Christ  to  exist  in  perfection 
without  the  Presidency,  the  Apostles, 
the  Seventies,  the  High  Priests,  the  El- 
ders, the  Priests,  Teachers  and  Dea- 
cons. All  of  them  have  their  special  work 
to  perform,  just  as  the  organs  of  the  hu- 
man system  have  their  particu- 
lar part  to  do.  I  compared 
the  circulation  of  the  blood 
in  the  body  to  the  active  Priesthood, 
which  goes  about  the  whole  body  of 
the  Church,  imparting  life  and  vigor 
and  setting  in  order  all  of  the  parts 
that  may  be  out  of  place.  Whenever 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


a  member  becomes  injured,  the  blood 
assists  in  building  it  up.  So  with  the 
workings  of  the  Priesthood  of  the  Son 
of  God,  in  the  great  body  which  Christ 
has  established. 

I  believe  that  every  organization  of 
the  Priesthood  is  just  as  important  and 
vital  to  the  Church  of  Christ  as  every 
organ  is  to  the  human  system;  and 
in  Stakes  or  wards  where  the  Deacons, 
the  Teachers,  the  Priests  and  the  El- 
ders have  nothing  to  do,  there  will  be  a 
stagnation  of  blood.     Our  people  have 
suffered  the  malady  in  neglecting  to  pay 
their  tithes,  but  now  this  Priesthood  is 
getting  to  work,  this  blood  is  circulat- 
ing more  freely,  and  directing  its  at- 
tention especially  in  the  direction  of 
curing  the  body  of  this  particular  mala- 
dy.    The  Priesthood  has  labored  ener- 
getically, but  not  as  much    so  as  we 
should  have  done.      There  are  many 
Teachers  and  Priests  that  have  not  la- 
bored as  faithfully  as  they  should  have 
done.     Think  of  what  a  beautiful  body 
this  would  be  if  every  quorum  was  ac- 
tive;  if  the  blood  circulated  through 
every  part  of  the  system  and  if  every 
part  was  renovated  and  cleansed,  so 
that  it  might  be  in  a  perfect  state  of 
health.     God  help  us  that  we  may  be 
able  to  get  this  body,  the  Church  of 
Christ,  into  this    desirable  condition; 
that  the  list  containing  thousands  of 
names  of  persons    who    ought   to  be 
tithe-payers  and  are  not,  may  be  wiped 
out.     I  believe  that  one  of  the  most 
practical  ways  of  bringing  about  this 
condition    is     for     the    Presidents  of 
Stakes,  Bishops  of  wards  and  the  Pres- 
idents of  Quorums  to  see  to  it  that  they 
discharge  their  part  of  this  responsi- 
bility.    It  is  not  expected  that  Presi- 
dent Snow  will  be  able  to  reach  all 
parts  of  the  body  and  be  able  personal- 
ly   to     regulate     and     renovate  the 
body     of     Christ,     but     there  are 
members    of     the     body     that  have 
been     chosen     to     do     this  work, 
and  if  they  do  not  do  it,  that  condition 
which  we  desire  will  not  exist. 

I  hope,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
President  Snow  shall  live  to  see  the 
desires  of  his  heart  granted  unto  him. 
I  pray  for  this  and  labor  for  it  among 
the  brethren  in  the  Stakes  where  I  go, 
so  that  confidence  in  the.  Church  of 
Christ  in  regard  to  financial  affairs  may 


be  maintained.      The  Church  is  now 
upon  a  good  financial  basis;    but  we 
ought  not  to  cease  our  labors  as  soon 
as  we  hear  good  news.     We  ought  not 
to  run  well  for  awhile,  and  then  tire 
out  just  when  our  assistance  is  most 
needed.      It  has    taken  considerable 
labor  on  the  part  of  the  Priesthood  to 
stir  the  people  up  to  a  realization  of 
their  condition  and  their  negligence  in 
regard  to  the  payment  of  tithing,  and 
it  will  take  a  continual  labor  on  our 
part  to  keep  the  people  awakened  to 
these  things.     Strange  that  we  always 
have  to  belabored  with  in  order  to  get  us 
to  do  right;  nevertheless  we  have  to  be 
labored  with  and  we  have  to  labor  with 
each  other  that  we  may  keep  alive  in 
the  Church  of  Christ.     If  we  are  not 
brought  in  contact  with  this  Priest- 
hood and  its  workings  we  soon  die  out, 
just  like  a  member  of  the  human  body 
would  die  out  if  the  blood  did  not  circu- 
late to  that  part.     Thus  it  is  very  nec- 
essary that  the  brethren  who  hold  the 
Priesthood  and  the  sisters  who  are  en- 
gaged in  the  different  organizations  of 
this  Church  should  carry  their  respon- 
sibility and  feel  that  there  is  an  individ- 
ual responsibility  connected  with  this 
work  which  rests  upon  them,  and  that 
God  will  not  justify  them  if  they  do  not 
discharge  their  duties  in  their  separate 
callings. 

I  wish  to  read,  for  the  benefit  of  those 
who  hold  the  Priesthood,  from  the 
third  chapter  of  Ezekiel,  beginning  at 
the  17th  verse: 

'Son  of  Man,  I  have  made  thee  a 
watchman  unto  the  house  of  Israel: 
therefore ' hear  the  word  at  my  mouth, 
and  give  them  warning  from  me. 

"When  I  say  unto  the  wicked.  Thou 
shalt  surely  die;  and  thou  givest  him 
not  warning,  nor  speakest  to  warn  the 
wicked  from-  his  wicked  way,  to  save 
his  life;  the  same  wicked  man  shall  die 
in  his  iniquity;  but  his  blood  will  I  re- 
quire at  thine  hand. 

"Yet  if  thou  warn  the  wicked,  and  he 
turn  not  from  his  wickedness,  nor  from 
his  wicked  way,  he  shall  die  in  his 
iniquity,  but  thou  hast  delivered  thy 
soul. 

"Again,  when  a  righteous  man  doth 
turn  from  his  righteousness,  and  com- 
mit iniquity,  and  I  lay  a  stumbling- 
block  before  him,  he  shall  die;  because 
thou  hast  not  given  him  warning,  he 
shall  die  in  his  sin,  and  his  righteous- 
ness which  he  hath  done  shall  not  be 
remembered;  but  his  blood  will  I  re- 
quire at  thine  hand." 


I 


ELDER  ABRAHAM  O  WOODRUFF. 


This,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  may 
be  applied  to  those  of  us  who  have  re- 
ceived the  Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God. 
We  have  not  received  it  through  man. 
The  leaders  of  this  dispensation  re- 
ceived it  from  Peter,  James  and  John 
and  John  the  Baptist,  the  men  who  held 
the  keys  of  this  Priesthood  and  who  re- 
ceived it  from  the  Son  of  God  Himself. 
Therefore,  the  responsibility  that  we 
are  under  has  not  been  placed  upon  us 
br  man;  it  has  come  to  us 
from  God;  and  when  the  head 
shall  say  to  us,  Do  this,  or 
that,  we  are  under  obligations  to  do 
it.  We  are  under  obligations  to  see  that 
there  is  no  stagnation  in  our  part  of 
the  body;  that  there  is  no  negligence 
in  the  payment  of  tithes  or  in  the  keep- 
ing of  any  of  the  commandments  in 
our  Stake  or  ward  or  association.  It  is 
my  duty  at  the  head  of  any  association, 
ward  or  Stake  to  see  that  the  people  are 
doing  their  duty.  If  they  are  entirely 
negligent  to  the  teachings  of  God  that 
come  to  us  through  His  mouthpiece,  I 
want  10  tell  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  those  who  stand  at  the  head 
of  these  organizations  will  come  under 
condemnation.  The  Presidency,  the 
Twelve,  or  the  Seventy  cannot  be  in  all 
the  wards;  but  there  are  men  placed 
there  with  equal  responsibility  in  their 
callings,  and  they  have  to  discharge 
these  duties  or  the  Lord  will  not  hold 
them  guiltless.  He  will  not  excuse  them 
if  they  do  not  labdr  diligently  and 
delve  into  the  dark  corners  and  see  that 
there  are  no  cobwebs  in  their  Stake  or 
ward,  but  that  everything  is  working 
as  it  should  do;  that  there 
is  '  no  clog  in  the  machinery 
of  *  this  great  body  of  Christ, 
but  that  each  is  doing'  his  part.  If  we 
will  do  this  we  will  gain  salvation  and 
we  will  enter  into  the  presence  of  God 
and  hear  the  welcome  plaudit,  "Well 
dope,  thou  good  and  faithful  servant." 
If  we  do  not,  we  cannot  expect,  be- 
cause the  Priesthood  has  been  con- 
ferred upon  us,  that  we  will  inherit  the 
celestial  kingdom  of  our  God.  The 
Lord  will  not  reward  the  drone,  nor 
the  slothful;  He  will  not  reward  the 
unjust  steward,  the  one  who  has  not 
taken  advantage  of  the  opportunities 
God  has  placed  within  his  grasp.  If 
our  talents  are  great,  we  have  that 


39 

much  more  need  to  use  them  than  those 
who  are  not  so  greatly  blessed. 

Before  taking  my  seat  there  is  an- 
other matter  that  occurs  to  me  which  I 
wish  to  speak  upon.  I  have  noticed 
that  there  is  a  spirit  creeping  in  among 
a  certain  class  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
which  is  not  of  God,  but  of  the  world. 
It  has  been  popular,  ever  since  Mor- 
monism  was  established,  to  have  large 
families;  for  we  understand  that  there 
are  hundreds  of  thousands  of  spirits 
in  the  other  world  anxious  to  be  taber- 
nacled by  good  fathers  and  mothers, 
that  they  may  pass  through  this  state 
of  probation.  But  there  is  a  certain 
class  of  Latter-day  Saints  that  has 
come  to  think  as  the  Gentile  world 
does — that  it  is  not  stylish,  not  nice 
to  have  large  families;  and  therefore  we 
find,  much  to  our  sorrow,  that  in  some 
instances  steps  are  taken  to  prevent 
these  spirits  being  tabernacled  by 
them.  I  want  to  say  that  every  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  ought  to  feel  that  the, 
are  not  justified  before  God  their  Fath- 
er in  pursuing  a  course  of  this  kind. 
We  want,  so  far  as  God  will  favor  us, 
the  privilege  and  blessing  of  posterity. 
And  those  who  employ  means  to  pre- 
vent this  will  find  in  the  spirit  world 
that  they  have  lost  the  stars  in  their 
crown  and  have  shut  out  a  means  of 
exaltation;  that  they  have  done  a  grieV- 
cus  wrong  which  they  may  not  be  able 
to  repair  for  many  ages,  if  at  all.  Those 
who  fought  the  system  of  plural  mar- 
riage in  years  gone  by  were  people  who 
were,  as  a  rule,  opposed  to  the  large 
families  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
took  steps  themselves  to  prevent  spirits 
coming  to  them  to  be  tabernacled,  in 
some  cases  going  so  far  as  to  be  guilty 
of  murdering  the  unborn  innocents.  Up- 
on such  the  curse  of  God  will  rest.  I 
greatly  desire  that  this  practice  shall 
not  creep  in  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  have  prayed  that  the  Spirit 
of  this  subject  might  be  given  to  some 
of  the  older  members  of  this  quorum,  or 
to  the  Presidency,  that  they  might 
dwell  upon  it,  because  I  know,  from 
what  I  have  heard  from  reliable 
sources,  that  this  spirit  which  I  have 
spoken  of  is  in  a  slight  degree  at  any 
rate  creeping  in  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  Thank  God  for  posteritv. 
Thank  God  for  the  large  families  of  the 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Latter-day  Saints.  I  wish  that  we  had 
millions  more  of  them  today,  and  that 
the  world  were  full  of  this  class  of  peo- 
ple, who  fear  God  and  who  desire  to 
serve  Him  and  keep  His  command- 
ments, and  whose  sons  and  daughters 
are  reared  in  the  principles  of  the  Gos- 
pel of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

I  thank  my  heavenly  Father  for  the 
testimony  which  He  has  given  me  that 
this  is  His  work,  that  President  Snow 
is  a  Prophet  of  the  true  and  living  God, 
that  God  is  with  him,  that  He  has  in- 
spired him,  and  that  the  changes  which 
are  being  brought  about  in  our  financial 
conditions  are  due  to  the  revelations  of 
God  through  His  Prophet.  May  God 
help  us  to  be  faithful,  to  be  loyal.  May 
He  give  us  His  Spirit,  that  we  may  not 
get  into  the  dark,  that  we  may  not  lose 
the  Spirit  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus.  Let  us  stand  up  to  the  rack  and 
do  our  part.  Let  us  see  to  it  that  the 
responsibility  which  is  placed  upon  us 
is  discharged,  that  we  may  enter  into 
the  presence  of  God  our  Father,  and 
share  the  reward  of  the  laborer  and 
those  who  have  been  valiant  for  the 
testimony  of  Jesus,  and  receive  eternal 
life.  I  ask  it  through  Christ,  our  Re- 
deemer. Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

Pfeseivatlon  and  Multiplication  of  life — Dangers 
of  sign  seeking — Man  established  in  the  truth 
by  faithfulness  and  the  spirit  of  Gnd. 

It  will  give  me  great  pleasure  to  re- 
ceive the  spirit  to  bear  testimony  to 
that  which  we  have  heard  today  and 
yesterday.  I  think  the  true  spirit  of 
counsel  and  instruction  has  rested  upon 
the  Apostles  who  have  spoken  to  us 
during  this  conference  so  far,  and  I  de- 
sire to  say  that  I  endorse  with  all  my 
heart  the  excellent  counsel  and  blessed 
instruction  which  they  have  given  to 
this  people.  I  sincerely  hope  we  will  re- 
member these  counsels,  and  remember- 
ing them,  carry  them  out  in  our  lives. 
It  matters  not  how  many  good  things 
we  may  hear,  nor  how  much  we  may 
know,  if  we  do  not  apply  the  instruc- 
tions we  receive  and  the  knowledge  we 
possess  to  the  accomplishment  of  the 
work  that  we  have  in  hand.  The  para- 
mount duty  is  to  labor  for  Zion,  and 
work  for  our  own  salvation,  that  we 
may  gain  the  victory  over  ourselves  and 
over  the  powers  of  evil  that  are  in  the 


world.  The  Gospel  has  been  preached 
to  us,  and  we  have  essayed  to  obey  it, 
that  we  might  become  the  sons  and 
daughters  of  God — heirs  of  God  and 
joint-heirs  with  his  Son.  We  can  never 
attain  to  the  blessings  of  the  Gospel  by 
merely  becoming  acquainted  with  it  and 
then  sitting  down  and  doing  nothing 
ourselves  to  stem  the  current  of  e^il 
that  is  preying  upon  us  and  upon  the 
world. 

The  remarks  that  have  just  been 
made  by  Brother  Woodruff  are  worthy 
of  attention  and  acceptation  on  the  part 
of  the  young  men  and  young  women  of 
Zion.  Those  who  have  taken  upon 
themselves  the  responsibility  of  wedded 
life  should  see  to  it  that  they  do  not 
abuse  the  course  of  nature;  that  they 
do  not  destroy  the  principle  of  life  with- 
in them,  nor  violate  any  of  the  com- 
mandments of  God.  The  command 
which  he  gave  in  the  beginning  to  mul- 
tiply and  replenish  the  earth  is  still  in 
force  upon  the  children  of  men. 
Possibly  no  greater  sin  could 
be  committed  by  the  people  who 
have  embraced  this  Gospel  than  to  pre- 
vent or  to  destroy  life  in  the  manner  in- 
dicated. We  are  born  into  the  world 
that  we  may  have  life,  and  we  live  that 
we  may  have  a  fulness  of  joy,  and  if 
we  will  obtain  a  fulness  of  joy,  we  must 
obey  the  law  of  our  creation  and  the 
law  by  which  we  may  obtain  the  con- 
summation of  our  righteous  hopes  and 
desires — life  eternal. 

If  the  time  will  permit,  I  desire  to  en- 
dorse the  sentiments  that  were  ex- 
pressed bv  Brother  Grant.  It  is  a 
wicked  and  adulterous  generation  that 
seeketh  after  a  sign.  Show  me  Latter- 
day  Saints  who  have  to  feed  upon  mir- 
acles, signs  and  visions  in  order  to  keep 
them  steadfast^  in  the  Church,  and  I 
will  show  you  members  of  the  Church 
who  are  not  in  good  standing  before 
God,  and  who  are  walking  in  slippery 
paths.  It  is  not  by  marvelous  mani- 
festations unto  us  that  we  shall  be  es- 
tablished in  the  truth,  but  it  is  by  hu- 
mility and  faithful  obedience  to  the 
commandments  and  laws  of  God.  When 
I  as  a  boy  first  started  out  in  the  min- 
istry I  would  frequently  go  out  and  ask 
the  Lord  to  show  me  some  marvelous 
thing,  in  order  that  I  might  receive  a 
testimony.  But  the  Lord  withheld 
marvels  from  me,  and  showed  me  the 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


truth,  line  upon  line,  precept  upon  pre- 
cept, here  a  little  and  there  a  little,  un- 
til he  made  me  to  know  the  truth  from 
the  crown  of  my  head  to  the  soles  of 
my  feet,  and  until  doubt  and  fear  had 
been  absolutely  purged  from  me.  He 
did  not  have  to  send  an  angel  from  the 
heavens  to  do  this,  nor  did  He  have  to 
speak  with  the  trump  of  an  archangel. 
By  the  whisperings  of  the  still  small 
voice  of  the  spirit  of  the  living  God,  He 
gave  to  me  the  testimony  I  possess. 
And  by  this  principle  and  power  He 
will  eive  to  all  the  children  of  men  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth  that  will  stay 
with  them,  and  it  will  make  them  to 
know  the  truth,  as  God  knows  it,  and 
to  do  the  will  of  the  Father  as  Christ 
does  it.  And  no  amount  of  marvelous 
manifestations  will  ever  accomplish  this. 
It  is  obedience,  humility  and  sub- 
mission to  the  requirements  of  heaven 
and  to  the  order  established  in  the 
kingdom  of  God  upon  the  earth  that  will 
establish  men  in  the  truth.  Men  may 
receive  the  visitation  .of  angels;  they 
may  speak  in  tongues;  they  may  in- 
terpret; they  may  prophesy;  they  may 
heal  the  sick  by  the  laying  on  of  hands; 
they  may  have  visions  and  dreams;  but 
except  they  are  faithful  and  pure  in 
heart,  they  become  an  easy  prey  to  the 
adversary  of  their  souls,  and  he  will 
lead  them  into  darkness  and  unbelief 
more  easily  than  others.  The  devil  him- 
self can  appear  like  an  angel  of  light. 
False  prophets  and  false  teachers  have 
arisen  in  the  world.  There  is  perhaps 
no  gift  of  the  spirit  of  God  more  easily 
imitated  by  the  devil  than  the  gift  of 
tongues.  Where  two  men  or  women 
exercise  the  gift  of  tongues  by  the  in- 
spiration of  the  spirit  of  God,  there  are 
a  dozen  perhaps  that  do  it  by  the  in- 
spiration of  the  devil.  Bless  your  souls, 
apostates  speak  in  tongues,  apostates 
prophesy;  apostates  claim  to  have  mar- 
velous manifestations.  And  what  is 
that  to  us?  The  trouble  is,  we  know 
so  little  of  the  truth  ourselves  and  we 
live  by  it  so  poorly  that  almost  any  lit- 
tle jackanapes  in  the  country  may  rise 
up  and  claim  he  has  had  a  vision,  or 
some  marvelous  dream,  and  however 
absurd  or  untrue  it  may  be,  he  may  find 
believers  and  followers  among  those 
who  profess  to  be  Latter-day  Saints. 
I    believe    in  the    gifts    of  the  Holy 


Spirit  unto  men,  but  I  do  not  want  the 
gift  of  tongues,  except  when  I  need  it. 
I  needed  the  gift  of  tongues  once  and 
the  Lord  gave  it  to  me.  I  was  in  a 
foreign  land,  sent  to  preach  the  Gospel 
to  a  people  whose  language  I  could  not 
understand.  Then  I  sought  earnestly 
for  the  gift  of  tongues,  and  by  this  gift 
and  by  study,  in  a  hundred  days  after 
landing  upon  those  islands  I  could  talk 
to  the  people  in  their  language  as  I  now 
talk  to  you  in  my  native  tongue.  This 
was  a  gift  that  was  worthy  of 
the  Gospel.  There  was  a  purpose 
in  it.  There  was  something  in  it  to 
strengthen  my  faith,  to  encourage  me 
and  to  help  me  in  my  ministry.  If  you 
have  need  of  this  gift  of  tongues,  seek 
for  it  and  God  will  help  you  in  it.  But 
I  do  not  ask  you  to  be  very  hungry 
for  the  gift  of  tongues,  for  if  you  are 
not  careful  the  devil  will  deceive  you 
in  it.  He  can  talk  by  the  gift  of 
tongues  as  well  as  the  Lord  can.  Paul 
did  not  seem  to  care  much  about  the 
gift  of  tongues  either.  He  said  to  the 
Corinthians: 

"I  had  rather  speak  five  words  with 
my  understanding,  that  by  my  voice  I 
might  teach  others  also,  than  ten 
thousand  words  in  an  unknown 
tongue." 

So  far  as  I  am  concerned,  if  the 
Lord  will  give  me  ability  to  teach  the 
people  in  my  native  tongue,  or  in  their 
own  language  to  the  understanding  of 
those  that  hear  me,  that  will  be  suffi- 
cient gift  of  tongues  to  me.  .  Yet  if 
the  Lord  gives  ^nu  the  gift  of  tongues, 
do  not  despise  it,  do  not  reject  it.  For 
if  it  comes  from  the  Spirit  of  God,  it 
will  come  to  those  who  are  worthy  to 
receive  it,  and  it  is  all  right.  But  this 
idea  of  seeking  it,  desiring  it,  when  you 
don't  pay  your  tithing,  when  you  don't 
pray  in  your  families,  when  you  don't 
pay  your  debts,  when  you  desecrate  the 
Sabbath  day,  and  when  you  neglect 
other  duties  in  the  Church;  I  tell  you 
the  devil  will  take  advantage  of  you 
bye  and  bye,  if  he  does  not  at  first. 

The  time  will  not  permit  me.  or  I 
would  like  to  take  the  Scriptures  and 
read  from  them  in  relation  to  this 
subject.  I  love  the  truth;  I  love  my 
brethren,  and  I  know  that  the  visiting 
of  an  angel  alone  will  not  keep  one  in 
the  Church.    The  opening  of  the  heav- 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ens  to  you  in  marvelous  manifestations 
will  not  establish  you  in  the  truth.  We 
have  abundant  proof  of  that  in  the 
history  of  the  Church.  But  the 
men  and  the  women  who  are 
honest  before  God,  who  humbly  plod 
along,  doing  their  dut-"-  paying 
their  tithing  and  exercising 
that  pure  religion  and  undefiled  before 
God  and  the  Father,  which  is  to  visit 
the  fatherless  and  widows  in  their  af- 
flictions and  to  keep  ones  self  unspot- 
ted from  the  world  and  who  help  look 
after  the  poor;  and  who  honor  the 
holy  Priesthood,  who  do  not  run  into 
excesses,  who  are  prayerful  in  their 
families  and  who  acknowledge  the  Lord 
in  their  hearts,  they  will  build  up  a 
foundation  that  the  gates  of  hell  can- 
not prevail  against;  and  if  the  floods 
come  and  the  storms  beat  upon  their 
house,  it  shall  not  fall,  for  it  will  be 
built  upon  the  rock  of  eternal  truth.  I 
pray  that  this  vast  congregation  will 
build  upon  this  imperishable  foundation, 
upon  the  principle  expressed  by  the 


words  of  Joshua,  "as  for  me  and  my 
house,  we  will  serve  God,"  and  as  also 
expressed  by  Job,  "Though  he  slay  me, 
yet  will  I  put  my  trust  in  Him."  If  you 
have  that  spirit  toward  God  and  His 
work  in  these  latter  days,  you  will 
build,  steadily  and,  slowly  it  may  be, 
but  surely,  upon  a  foundation  that  will 
endure  throughout  the  countless  ages  of 
eternity.  And  if  you  do  not  get  any 
great  manifestations,  you  need  not  wor- 
ry about  it.  You  will  get  the  testimony 
of  Jesus  Christ  in  your  hearts  and  you 
will  know  God  and  Jesus  whom  He  has 
sent,  whom  to  know  is  life  eternal,  just 
as  well  as  those  who  receive  visions.  For 
those  who  do  receive  visions,  the  devil 
will  try  to  make  them  believe  that  they 
were  delusions,  and  if  they  commit  sin, 
he  will  be  sure  to  make  them  believe  it. 
God  bless  you,  is  my  prayer.  Amen. 
The  choir  sang: 

"Ye  simple  souls  who  stray, 
Far  from  the  paths  of  truth. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Jonathan  G. 
Kimball. 


THIRD  DAY. 


Sunday,  April  6th,  10  a.  m. 
The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  commencing: 

Redeemer  of  Israel, 
Our  only  delight, 

On  whom  for  a  blessing  we  call. 

Opening  prayer  by  Elder  Charles  W. 
Penrose. 

Singing  by  the  choir: 

All  hail  the  glorious  day, 

By  Prophets  long  foretold, 
When,  with  harmonious  lay, 
The  sheep  of  Israel's  fold 
On  Zion's  hill  His  praise  proclaim, 
And  shout  hosanna  to  His  name. 

ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 

A  striking  evidence  of  God's  goodness— Tithing 
and  consecration  —  Importance  of  Church 
records. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  can  say  that  I 
have  greatly  rejoiced  in  the  spirit  of 
this  conference.  We  have  truly  had  a 
time  of  instruction  and  refreshing  to 
our  souls,  and  this  conference,  held  in 
the  seventieth  year  of  our  age  as  a 
Church,  has  this  far  been  one  of  the 


best  that  we  have  ever  had.  What  a 
great  variety  of  instruction  has  been 
given  to  this  people,  and  we  can  see 
the  growth  and  progress  that  has  been 
made  since  we  were  convened  in  con- 
ference one  year  ago.  We  rejoice  in  it, 
and  our  hearts  are  made  glad.  Notwith- 
standing this,  however,  we  witness 
things  in  the  Church  that  need  atten- 
tion and  correction,  and  we  know  that 
there  is  opportunity  for  still  greater 
growth  and  progress.  The  Lord,  as  if 
in  smiling  approval  of  His  Church 
(speaking  of  the  Church  as  a  whole) 
has  sent  a  most  glorious  storm — a  storm 
that  was  greatly  needed  and  that  gives 
promise  of  abundant  crops  in  the  year 
1900.  So  greatly  needed  was  this  storm 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  can  overlook 
the  inconvenience  of  getting  around, 
and  can  lift  up  their  hearts  in  praise 
and  thanksgiving  to  God.  Truly  we 
are  a  blessed  people. 

I  was  very  deeply  impressed  with  the 
revelation  that  was  read  in  part  by 
President  Snow  at  the  Priesthood  meet- 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAW  SON. 


ing  last  evening,  and  also  the  very  in- 
structive comments  made  upon  it.  It  is 
of  such  great  and  vital  interest  that  I 
have  thought  to  read  the  revelation  to 
you  this  morning.  It  is  recorded  in 
section  85  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants.    The  Lord  says: 

"It  is  the  duty  of  the  Lord's  clerk, 
whom  He  has  appointed,  to  keep  a  his- 
tory, and  a  general  Church  record  of 
all  things  that  transpire  in  Zion,  and 
of  all  those  who  consecrate  properties, 
and  receive  inheritances  legally  from 
the  Bishop; 

"And  also  their  manner  of  life,  their 
faith,  and  works;  and  also  of  the  apos- 
tates who  apostatize  after  receiving 
their  inheritances. 

"It  is  contrary  to  the  will  and  com- 
mandment of  God,  that  those  who  re- 
ceive not  their  inheritance  by  consecra- 
tion, agreeably  to  His  law,  which  He 
has  given,  that  He  may  tithe  His  peo- 
ple, to  prepare  them  against  the  day  of 
vengeance  and  burning,  should  have 
their  names  enrolled  with  the  people  of 
God; 

"Neither  is  their  genealogy  to  be  kept, 
or  to  be  had  where  it  may  be  found  on 
any  records  or  history  of  the  Church; 

"Their  names  shall  not  be  found, 
neither  the  names  of  the  fathers,  nor 
the  names  of  the  children  written  in  the 
book  of  the  law  of  God,  saith  the  Lord 
of  Hosts. 

"Yea.  thus  said  the  still  small  voice, 
which  whispereth  through  and  pierceth 
all  things,  and  often  times  it  maketh 
my  bones  to  auake  while  it  maketh 
manifest,  saying: 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  I, 
the  Lord  God.  will  send  one  mighty 
and  strong,  holding  the  sceptre  of  pow- 
er in  his  hand,  clothed  with  light  for  a 
covering-,  whose  mouth  shall  utter 
words,  eternal  words;  while  his  bowels 
shall  be  a  fountain  of  truth,  to  set 
in  order  the  house  of  God,  and  to  ar- 
range by  lot  the  inheritances  of  the 
Saint s.  whose  names  are  found,  and 
the  names  of  their  fathers,  and  of  their 
children,  enrolled  in  the  book  of  the  law 
of  God: 

"While  that  man,  who  was  called  of 
God  and  appointed,  that  putteth  forth 
his  hand  to  steady  the  ark  of  God,  shall 
fall  by  the  shaft  of  death,  like  as  a 
tree  that  is  smitten  by  the  vivid  shaft 
of  lightning; 

"And  all  they  who  are  not  found  writ- 
ten in  the  book  of  remembrance,  shall 
find  nor>e  inheritance  in  that  day,  but 
they  shall  be  cut  asunder,  and  their 
portion  shall  be  appointed  them  among 
unbelievers,  where  are  wailing  and 
gnashing  of  teeth. 

"These  things  I  say  not  of  myself: 
therefore,  as  the  Lord  speaketh,  He  will 
also  fulfill. 

"And  they  who  are  of  the  High 
Priesthood,  whose  names  are  not  found 
written  in  the  book  of  the  law,  or  that 


are  found  to  have  apostatized,  or  to 
have  been  cut  off  from  the  Church;  as 
well  as  the  Lesser  Priesthood,  or  the 
members,  in  that  day,  shall  not  find 
an  inheritance  among  the  Saints  of  the 
Most  High; 

"Therefore  it  shall  be  done  unto  them 
as  unto  the  children  of  the  priest,  as 
will  be  found  recorded  in  the  second 
chapter  and  sixty-first  verse  of  Ezra." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  Lord  in  re- 
vealing to  the  Prophet  Joseph  that  a 
day  of  vengeance  and  burning  is  com- 
ing upon  the  earth,  did  not  desire,  I 
think,  to  arouse  any  feelings  of  fear  or 
anxiety  in  the  minds  of  His  people. 
It  was  simply  that  they  should 
be  made  acauainted  with  the 
fact  that  such  a  day  is  coming  upon 
the  earth  and  also  that  there  should  be 
a  preparation  made  by  his  people  for 
that  time,  that  they  might  be  able  to 
abide  that  great  and  dreadful  day  of 
the  Lord.  One  peculiar  feature  of 
this  revelation  is  that  while  the  Lord 
speaks  of  this  time  of  trouble  and  ca- 
lamity, he  also  comes  down  to  the  sim- 
ple matter  as  it  might  seem  to  some,  of 
giving  instructions  to  his  clerk.  He  says 
that  his  clerk  shall  keep  a 
history  and  a  general  Church 
record  of  all  things  that  trans- 
pire in  Zion,  and  in  the  manner  of 
life  and  faith  and  works  of  His  peo- 
ple, and  especially  that  it  should  be 
recorded  of  His  people  that  they  pay 
their  tithes  and  offerings,  and  later  per- 
haps that  they  shall  observe  the  law 
of  consecration,  that  they  may  escape 
the  day  of  vengeance  and  burning.  We 
see  that  the  Lord  is  very  particular 
in  this  matter.  In  the  early  days  of  the 
Church, some  baptisms  for  the  dead  that 
were  not  properly  witnessed  and  record- 
ed, were  rejected  of  the  Lord,  and  the 
work  had  to  be  done  over  again.  We 
know  that  great  care  and  attention  is 
given  to  this  matter  today  in  our  Tem- 
ples, and  that  efficient  help  must  be 
secured  to  do  this.  Let  me  tell  you 
something  in  relation  to  this  great 
Temple  of  the  Lord  in  Salt  Lake  City. 
From  the  time  that  that  Temple  was  de- 
dicated, in  1893,  up  to  the  year  1899, 
there  were  475,662  ordinances  performed 
therein,  and  for  the  year  1899,  68,871. 
making  a  grand  total  of  544,337  ordin- 
ances performed  in  the  House  of  the 
Lord  for  the  living  and  the  dead,  and 
this  does  not  include  the  work  that  has 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


been  done  in  other  temples  of  God. 
Truly  it  is  a  great  and  marvelous  work, 
and  not  the  least  important  thing  about 
it  is  that  these  ordinances  are  all  care- 
fully recorded  in  the  books  and  are  filed 
away  in  the  archives  of  the  Temple,  to 
be  brought  forth  in  due  time.  From 
these  records  the  people  who  have  gone 
to  that  house  will  be  judged.  Nothing 
that  is  done  in  that  Temple  will  be  ac- 
cepted of  the  Lord,  except 
it  is  properly  witnessed  and 
recorded.  The  Temple  work 
is  strictly  looked  after  each  day,  so 
that  nothing  is  neglected  or  omitted, 
much  to  the  credit  of  those  who  labor 
in  the  Temples.  The  great  work  per- 
formed in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple,  has 
thus  far  been  accomplished  under  the 
Presidency  of  our  Prophet  and  Seer, 
and  we  rejoice  in  it. 

I  also  want  to  say  to  you,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  inasmuch  as  there  is 
more  or  less  anxiety  at  times  among 
some  of  the  Saints  concerning  the  tith- 
ing, that  the  tithing  records  of  this 
Church  were  never  before  in  such  good 
condition  as  they  are  today.  I  ask  the 
Presidents  of  Stakes  and  the  Bishops  of 
wards  to  bear  witness  with  me  that  the 
tithing  is  most  strictly  looked  after, 
and  that  no  mistakes  occur,  but  which 
are  readily  detected.  I  was  going  to 
say  that  the  "eagle  eye"  of  the  Presid- 
ing Bishop  of  this  Church,  through  the 
very  efficient  help  that  he  has,  detects 
every  inaccuracy  and  every  neglect  in 
the  recording  of  the  tithes.  The  Presid- 
ing Bishop  is  one  of  the  Lord's  clerks, 
and  he  of  necessity  must  keep  a  strict 
and  careful  record.  All  of  the  tithing 
reports  which  come  from  the  forty-two 
Stakes  of  Zion,  covering  Ave  hundred 
and  thirty-eight  wards,  are  carefully 
tabulated  and  filed  away  in  the  Bishop's 
office,  and  you  would  be  astonished,  if 
you  went  there,  to  find  how  readily 
you  could  get  any  information  pertain- 
ing to  the  tithing  of  this  Church.  There 
is  no  man,  woman  or  child  in  this 
Church  who  has  paid  tithing,  but  whose 
name  will  be  found  upon  the  tithing 
records  in  the  Bishop's  office  and  the 
office  of  the  First  Presidency.  It  is  all 
understood,  and  we  are  fast  coming  to 
that  condition  where  nothing  will  be 
neglected  or  wasted.  There  are  losses 
that  occur  in  a  natural  and  proper  way, 
and  that  cannot  be  avoided,  but  the 


tithing  is  most  carefully  looked  after. 
I  have  admired  the  system  that  is  fol- 
lowed in  the  Presiding  Bishop's  office. 

There  is  another  matter  that  I  would 
like  to  speak  of  briefly,  and  that  is 
this:  God  has  inspired  his  ser- 
vant not  only  to  look  after  the  proper 
recording  of  the  tithes  of  His  people, 
but  also  to  call  for  the  names  of  the  non- 
tithepayers  of  the  Church.  This  is 
something  that  has  never  been  done  be- 
fore, so  far  as  I  know.  A  list  most 
carefully  prepared  as  to  names,  but  not 
always  as  to  explanations  has  been 
compiled  and  furnished  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  this  Church.  That  action 
seems  to  have  come  to  us  through  the 
inspiration  of  God,  that  it  shall  be 
known  who  are  neglectful  in  the  midst 
of  His  people.  I  do  not  know  that  I 
am  authorized  to  tell  you  how  many 
names  there  are  in  it,  but  I  can  say 
that  it  is  a  large  book.  It  was  pre- 
sented at  the  Priesthood  meeting  last 
night  as  a  text  book  to  talk  upon.  Presi- 
dent Snow  talked  from  that  text,  and 
Presiding  Bishop  Preston  talked  on  it. 
It  was  a  big  text,  so  large  that  he  could 
hardly  follow  it.  There  is  not  a  man 
or  woman  in  this  Church  who  ought  to 
pay  tithing  and  who  does  not,  but 
whose  name  is  recorded  in  that  great 
book.  It  was  designed  that  in  each 
case  a  reason  should  be  given  why  each 
person  had  not  paid  tithing.  But  this 
has  not  been  fully  done  in  all  cases, 
owing  no  doubt  to  the  fact  that  this  is 
the  first  request  of  the  kind  that  has 
been  made  of  the  Bishops  of  this 
Church;  but  there  will  be  an  improve- 
ment in  this  particular  hereafter.  The 
lines  are  being  drawn.  It  must  be 
known  to  the  authorities  of  this  Church 
and  to  the  people  who  are  faithful  and 
who  are  not  faithful.  God  requires  it 
and  it  must  be  recorded,  for  the  rea- 
son plainly  set  forth  in  the  revelation, 
that  those  whose  names  are  not  found 
recorded  in  the  book  of  the  law  of  God 
shall  have  no  inheritance  in  Zion  in 
that  day  when  our  eternal  inheritances 
shall  be  divided  out  to  us.  Therefore 
it  is  a  matter  of  serious  importance, 
and  we  appreciate  the  meaning  of  the 
great  text  that  was  given  to  us  in  our 
Priesthood  meeting.  I  am  sure  that 
those  who  were  present  were 
deeply  impressed  by  what 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAW  SON. 


45 


they  saw  and  the  instructions 
that  were  given.  Notwithstanding  this, 
I  desire  to  say  that  if  the  Latter-day 
Saints  shall  make  as  much  advance- 
ment in  the  year  1900  as  they  have  done 
in  the  year  1899,  it  will  be  a  bright  and 
glorious  day  for  Zion.  I  believe  that 
God  is  well  pleased  with  the  efforts 
that  have  been  made  and  with  the 
faithful  among  His  people.  There  is 
one  reflection  I  had  concerning  the 
book  of  which  I  have  spoken,  and  that 
is,  it  simply  gives  the  names  of  non- 
tithe-payers  in  the  Church.  It  does 
not  give  the  names  of  those  who  have 
paid  only  fifteen  per  cent  of  what  they 
should  pay,  or  twenty  per  cent,  or  fifty 
per  cent,  or  seventy-five  per  cent.  There 
are  doubtless  many  of  the  people  who 
only  paid  a  partial  tithing,  or  as 
Bishop  Preston  says,  "a  little  ten  per 
cent,"  which  he  informs  us  is  no  ten 
per  cent  at  all.  Ten  per  cent  is  ten 
per  cent,  and  a  tithing  is  ten  per  cent, 
neither  more  nor  less.  When  it  is  below 
that,  the  view  has  been  held  that  it  is 
simply  an  offering  to  the  Lord.  How- 
ever these  partial  payments  have  been 
accepted  and  recorded  among  the  names 
of  those  who  have  paid  tithing;  for 
every  man  and  woman  in  this  Church 
shall  have  due  credit  for  what  they 
do. 

I  had  the  permission  of  the  President 
of  the  Church  to  look  through  that 
book,  and  I  want  to  give  you  a  very 
brief  summary  of  what  I  found  there 
as  to  why  many  people  in  this  Church 
failed  to  pay  their  tithing  last  year. 
There  are  some  people  who  will  say: 
"Of  course  there  were  those  among  us 
who  did  not  pay  tithing  last  year;  — 
some  young  men  doubtless  who  have 
just  come  into  their  majority,  or  who 
have  perhaps  for  the  first  time  earned 
a  little  means  and  are  not  acquainted 
with  this  great  law  of  tithing."  In 
answer  to  that  I  want  to  say  that  it 
is  a  mistake.  There  may  have  been 
some  such,  but  there  were  many  High 
Priests,  Seventies,  and  Elders,  as  well 
as  members  of  the  Lesser  Priesthood, 
who  failed  to  observe  the  law  in 
1899.  That  is  the  most  astonishing 
thing  connected  with  it.  And 
what  is  still  more  curious  is  some  of 
the  reasons  that  are  given  why  these 
bearers  of  the  Priesthood  did  not  pay 


tithing.  Let  me  say  that  in  some  cases 
no  reasons  were  given  at  all,  which  in- 
dicated to  me  that  the  Bishops  of  those 
wards  failed  to  see  those  who  were 
derelict  in  their  duty,  failed  to  talk  with 
them  and  get  their  reason  for  not  pay- 
ing tithing,  which  shows  a  great  neg- 
lect. In  some  cases  the  reason  given 
was,  carelessness;  in  others,  indiffer- 
ence; in  others,  a  lack  of  faith.  A  very 
large  number  come  under  these  heads. 
One  High  Priest  was  not  converted  to 
the  principle.  I  say  one;  there  was 
quite  a  number  of  High  Priests  against 
whose  names  the  reason  s-iven  was  that 
they  were  not  converted  to  the  prin- 
ciple. In  other  words,  they  did  not  be- 
lieve the  revelation  of  God,  and  yet  they 
were  High  Priests  in  the  Church.  The 
reason  given  in  the  case  of  one  Elder 
was  that  he  hadn't  thought  enough 
about  it  to  see  the  necessity  of  it.  Is 
it  not  rather  remarkable  that  we  can 
find  an  Elder  in  this  Church  who  has 
not  thought  enough  about  the  law  of 
God  to  see  the  necessity  of  obeying  it? 
I  wonder  if  he  thought  enough  about 
the  principle  of  baptism  to  be  baptized, 
or  about  the  principle  of  laying  on  of 
hands  to  have  the  hands  of  the  Priest- 
hood laid  upon  him  for  the  reception  of 
the  Holy  Ghost?  "We  learned  from 
President  Cannon  last  night  that  the 
law  of  tithing  is  just  as  essential  and  as 
saving  a  principle  as  the  principle  of 
baptism  or  the  laying  on  of  hands.  In 
another  case  an  Elder,  a  member  of  one 
of  the  Stake  boards  of  the  Y.  M.  M.  I. 
A.,  had  never  paid  tithing,  so  I  pre- 
sume that  he  had  never  been  converted. 
In  the  case  of  several  High  Priests  and 
a  number  of  Seventies,  the  reason  given 
was  that  though  they  were  abundantly 
able  to  observe  this  law,  they  were  not 
willing.  In  the  case  of  a  number  of 
Seventies,  the  reason  given  was 
that'  they  did  not  believe 
in  paying  tithing.  I  presume 
that  would  probably  be  the  case  with  all 
who  wilfully  neglected  their  duty.  In 
the  case  of  a  High  Priest,  the  reason 
given  was  that  his  wife  paid  a  good 
tithing,  but  he  did  nothing.  There  may 
be  a  chance  for  that  brother;  his  wife 
may  be  able  to  bring  him  into  the 
kingdom.  We  hope  so  at  least.  Here, 
brethren  and  sisters,  is  a  very  remark- 
able explanation  that  was  offered  in 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  case  of  a  Teacher  in  this  Church. 
It  does  not  say  whether  he  was  an 
active  Teacher,  or  an  ordained  Teacher. 
The  explanation  is  that  he  did  not  be- 
lieve in  tithing  or  in  a  God.  The  great 
wonder  is  that  he  is  in  the  Church  at 
all.  In  the  case  of  an  Elder,  it  was  ex- 
plained that  he  could  not  be  persuaded 
to  do  anything  in  a  Church  capacity. 
This  is  not  to  be  wondered  at,  for  a 
man  who  fails  to  pay  his  tithing  will 
lose  the  spirit  of  the  work,  and  if  he 
persists  in  that  direction,  he  will  apos- 
tatize and  leave  the  Church,  as  sure  as 
God  lives.  In  the  case  of  an  Elder,  the 
reason  was  given  that  he  could  not 
afford  to  pay  tithing.  Notwithstanding 
one-tenth  of  his  earnings  belonged  to 
the  Lord,  he  could  not  afford  to  pay  to 
the  Lord  that  which  belonged  to  him,  so 
he  appropriated  it  and  made  use  of  it 
in  other  directions.  In  the  case  of  a 
Seventy,  it  was  said  that  he  argued 
against  the  principle,  and  yet  he  is  a 
Seventy  in  the  Church  !  In  the  case  of 
another,  he  had  no  faith  in  the  Gospel! 
Here  is  a  very  strange  explanation 
given  in  the  case  of  a  Seventy:  It 
states  that  he  does  not  like  the  Bishop, 
consequently  he  ignores  the  law  of  God. 
I  suppose  that  because  he  does  not  like 
the  Bishop,  he  won't  be  saved.  Of  one 
Elder  it  was  said  that  he  was  full  of 
good  intentions  for  the  future.  Of  course 
we  have  no  means  of  knowing  whether 
these  good  intentions  may  be  relied 
upon  for  the  future,  but  we  do  know 
that  these  good  intentions  did  not  lead 
him  to  pay  his  tithing  in  the  year  1899. 
Here  is  an  explanation,  which  will  be 
the  last  I  shall  give:  The  Bishop,  in  re- 
ferring to  twelve  non-tithe  payers,  says, 
"We  think  some  of  these  would  have 
paid  tithing,  had  they  been  aroused  im- 
mediately before  the  settlement  of 
tithing."  Well,  confession  is  good  for 
the  soul,  and  that  Bishop  confesses  that 
he  failed  entirely  in  his  duty  in  not 
visiting  these  twelve  non-tithe  payers 
and  arousing  them  to  their  duty.  Of 
course,  the  great  responsibility  rests 
first  upon  the  non-tithe  payer,  but  after 
that  there  is  a  responsibility  resting 
upon  the  Bishop  and  upon  the  president 
of  the  Stake.  They  should  be  familiar 
with  the  people  in  their  Stake  and  in 
the  ward  who  fail  to  pay  tithing,  and 
they  should  labor  with  them  and  try 


to  bring  them  into  a  condition  where 
they  will  keep  the  commandments  of 
God.  Now,  in  conclusion  I  want  to  bear 
testimony  to  the  record  that  has  been 
made  by  one  ward  in  Salt  Lake  City — 
and  perhaps  the  same  may  be  said  of 
others,  for  aught  I  know;  but  this  ward 
has  come  to  my  attention  through  the 
Bishop.  There  were  only  four  non- 
tithepayers  in  that  ward,  and  the  ward 
paid  to  this  Church  something  like  ten 
thousand  dollars  in  tithing.  I  tell  you 
I  was  gratified,  and  I  said  to  that  Bish- 
op, The  reason  to  me  is  very  apparent; 
you  are  interested  in  this  matter  of 
tithing,  you  are  acquainted  with  your 
people.  You  know  every  tithe-payer  in 
your  ward,  and  you  know  every  non- 
tithepayer,  or  you  could  not  tell  me  that 
there  were  only  four,  and  you  are  look- 
ing after  them.  The  trouble,  as  shown 
by  this  great  report,  is  that  the  Bishops 
and  the  authorities  have  been  some- 
what derelict  in  their  duty.  In  many 
cases  the  Bishop  could  not  tell  you  how 
many  non-tithepayers  there  were  in  his 
ward,  let  alone  not  being  able  to  tell 
you  who  they  were  and  why  they 
failed  in  this  duty.  Now,  brethren  and 
sisters,  if  there  are  in  this  vast  congre- 
gation of  Israel,  or  in  any  of  the  Stakes, 
people  whose  names  appear  on  the 
record  that  President  Snow  exhibited  to 
us,  I  say  it  is  to  your  interest  to  see 
to  it  that  your  names  are  taken  from 
it,  and  that  they  appear,  instead,  in  the 
book  of  the  law  of  God,  in  order  that, 
in  due  time,  you  may  receive  your  eter- 
nal inheritance  in  the  kingdom  of  God; 
which  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

Importance  of  (he  law  of  tithing — A  source  of  rev- 
enue and  a  Means  of  distinguishing  (he  faithful 
from  the  unfaithful — None  should  be  denied 
the  privilege  of  obeying  this  law. 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
sincerely  desire  the  presence  and  in- 
fluence of  the  good  Spirit  during  the 
few  moments  that  I  shall  stand  before 
you.  that  I  may  be  guided  in  my  re- 
marks in  wisdom,  and  that  what  may 
be  said  may  be  profitable. 

The  subject  that  has  been  spoken  of 
this  morning  is  one  of  vital  importance 
for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  not  only  to  the  body 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


47 


of  the  Church,  but  to  each  individual 
member;  for  the  law  of  tithing  is  a  test 
by  which  the  people  as  individuals  shall 
be  proven.  Any  man  who  fails  to  ob- 
serve this  principle  shall  be  known  as 
a  man  who  is  indifferent  to  the  wel- 
fare of  Zion,  who  neglects  his  duty  as 
a  member  of  the  Church,  and  who  does 
nothing  toward  the  accomplishment  of 
the  temporal  advancement  of  the  king- 
dom of  God.  He  contributes  nothing, 
either,  towards  the  building  of  temples 
or  maintaining  them;  he  does  nothing 
towards  spreading  the  Gospel  to  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth,  and  he  neglects  to  do 
that  which  would  entitle  him  to  re- 
ceive the  blessings  and  ordinances  of 
the  Gospel.  Every  member  of  the 
Church  ought  to  possess  that  loyalty 
of  feeling  toward  the  cause  that  he 
would  feel  himself  wronged  if  he  were 
denied  the  privilege  of  contributing  to 
the  sustenance  of  the  Church  of  Christ 
in  the  earth.  The  law  of  tithing  is  the 
law  of  revenue  for  the  Church.  There 
is  no  organization  in  the  world  having 
for  its  object  the  benefit  of  mankind, 
the  building  up  of  industries,  or  the 
protection  of  the  rights  of  the  people, 
but  what  must  provide  means  with 
which  to  carry  out  these  purposes. 

When  the  Lord  restored  the  Gospel 
the  spirit  of  gathering  came  with  it. 
The  Lord  commanded  the  people  to 
gather  together,  and  that  they  should 
not  only  be  organized  as  a 
Church,  but  that  they  should  be 
organized  under  the  laws  of  the  land,  so 
that  they  might  not  be  helpless  and  de- 
pendent and  without  influence  or  power; 
but  that  by  means  of  united  effort  and 
faith  they  should  become  a  power  for 
the  accomplishment  of  righteousness  in 
the  earth  (D.  &  C.  Sec.  44;  4—5).  In 
order  that  there  might  be  means  with 
which  to  accomplish  every  temporal 
good  for  the  people,  the  Lord  instituted 
this  law  of  tithing  in  the  place  of  the 
greater  and  more  perfect  law  of  Zion. 
The  Lord  revealed  to  his  people  in  the 
incipiency  of  His  work  a  law  which  was 
more  perfect  than  the  law  of  tithing. 
It  comprehended  larger  things,  greater 
power  and  a  more  speedy  accomplish- 
ment of  the  purposes  of  the  Lord.  But 
the  people  were  unprepared  to  live  by 
it,  and  the  Lord,  out  of  mercy  to  the 
people,  suspended  the  more  perfect  law, 


and  gave  the  law  of  tithing,  in  order 
that  there  might  be  means  in  the  store- 
house of  the  Lord  for  the  carrying  out 
of  the  purposes  He  had  in  view;  for 
the  gathering  of  the  poor,  for  the 
spreading  of  the  Gospel  to  the  nations 
of  the  earth,  for  the  maintenance  of 
those  who  were  required  to  give  their 
constant  attention,  day  in  and  day  out, 
to  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  for  whom 
it  was  necessary  to  make  some  pro- 
vision. Without  this  law  these  things 
could  not  be  done,  neither  could  Tem- 
ples be  built  and  maintained,  nor  the 
poor  fed  and  clothed.  Therefore  the 
law  of  tithing  is  necessary  for  the 
Church,  so  much  so  that  the  Lord  has 
laid  great  stress  upon  it,  as  will  be  seen 
in  these  words: 

"And  I  say  unto  you,  if  my  people 
observe  not  this  law,  to  keep  it  holy, 
and  by  this  law  sanctify  the  land  of 
Zion  unto  me,  that  my  statutes  and 
judgments  may  be  kept  thereon,  that  it 
may  be  most  holy,  behold,  verily  I  say 
unto  you,  it  shall  not  be  a  land  of  Zion 
unto  you; 

'And  this  shall  be  an  ensample  unto 
all  the  Stakes  of  Zion.   Even  so.  Amen." 

By  this  principle  the  loyalty  of  the 
people  of  this  Church  shall  be  put  to 
the  test.  By  this  principle  it  shall  be 
known  who  is  for  the  kingdom  of  God 
and  who  is  against  it.  By  this 
principle  it  shall  be  seen  whose 
hearts  are  set  on  doing  the  will  of  God 
and  keeping  His  commandments,  there- 
by sanctifying  the  land  of  Zion  unto 
God,  and  who  are  opposed  to  this  prin- 
ciple and  have  cut  themselves  off  from 
the  blessings  of  Zion.  There  is  a  great 
deal  of  importance  connected  with  this 
principle,  for  by  it  it  shall  be  known 
whether  we  are  faithful  or  unfaithful. 
In  this  respect  it  is  as  essential  as  faith 
in  God, as  repentance  of  sin,  as  baptism 
for  the  remission  of  sin,  or  as  the  lay- 
ing on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  For  if  a  man  keep  all  the  law 
save  in  one  point,  and  he  offend  in  that, 
he  is  a.  transgressor  of  the  law,  and  he 
is  not  entitled  to  the  fullness  of  the 
blessings  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
But  when  a  man  keeps  all  the  law  that 
is  revealed,  according  to  his  strength, 
his  substance  and  his  ability,  though 
what  he  does  may  be  little,  it  is  just 
as  acceptable  in    the  sight  of  God  as 


4N 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


though  he  were  able  to  do  a  thousand 
times  more. 

While  this  matter  of  non-tithe-payers 
was  beins  talked  over,  I  heard  of  a 
Bishop  who  refused  to  receive  tithing 
from  a  person  because  that  person  was 
poor.  I  wondered  what  Bishop  it  was. 
What  Bishop  is  there  in  the  Church 
who  would  deny  a  woman,  even  though 
she  was  fed  and  clothed  out  of  the 
tithings  of  the  people,  the  privilege  of 
having  her  name  recorded  in  the  books? 
I  will  read  a  few  words  out  of  the  same 
revelation  that  Brother  Clawson  has 
read  to  us  this  morning: 

••It  is  contrary  to  the  will  and  com- 
mandment of  God,  that  those  who  re- 
ceive not  their  inheritance  by  consecra- 
tion, agreeably  to  this  law,  which  He 
has  given,  that  He  may  tithe  His  peo- 
ple, to  prepare  them  against  the  day  of 
vengeance  and  burning,  should  have 
their  names  enrolled  with  the  people  of 
God; 

"Neither  is  their  genealogy  to  be  kept, 
or  to  be  had  where  it  may  be  found  on 
any  of  the  records  or  history  of  the 
Church; 

"Their  names  shall  not  be  found, 
neither  the  names  of  the  fathers,  nor 
the  names  of  the  children  written  in  the 
book  of  the  law  of  God,  saith  the  Lord  of 
hosts." 

Will  you  then  deny  the  widow,  be- 
cause she  has  only  a  mite  to  bestow? 
Because  the  tenth  which  she  proposes 
to  give  in  obedience  to  the  command- 
ment of  God  is  but  a  penny,  are  you 
going  to  deprive  her  of  the  privilege  of 
having  her  name  enrolled  on  the  book 
:>f  the  law  of  the  Lord,  and  of  having 
her  genealogy  acknowledged  and  re- 
corded in  the  archives  of  the  Church? 
And  because  her  name  is  not  found 
there,  are  you  going  to  deny  her  the 
privileges  of -the  House  of  God  and  of 
the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel?  I  think 
it  is  time  the  Bishops  understood  this 
principle.  The  Bishop  should  encour- 
age every  man,  woman  and  child  that 
earns  and  receives  in  return  for  his 
labor,  to  honor  the  Lord  and  to  prove 
his  obedience  to  the  law  of  God  by 
giving  the  one-tenth  of  that  which  he 
or  she  receives,  as  the  Lord  requires, 
so  that  they  may  have  their  names  en- 
rolled on  the  book  of  the  law  of  the 
Lord,  that  their  genealogies  may  be 
had  in  the  archives  of  the  Church,  and 
that  they  may  be  entitled  to  the  priv- 


ileges and  blessings  of  the  house  of 
God. 

I  recollect  most  vividly  a  circum- 
stance that  occurred  in  the  days  of 
my  childhood.  My  mother  was  a  wi- 
dow, with  a  large  family  to  provide  for. 
One  spring  when  we  opened  our  pota- 
to pits  she  had  her  boys  get  a  load  of 
the  best  potatoes,  and  she  took  them 
to  the  tithing  office;  potatoes  were 
scarce  that  season.  I  was  a  little  boy 
at  the  time,  and  drove  the  team.  When 
we  drove  up  to  the  steps  of  the  tithing 
office,  ready  to  unload  the  potatoes,  one 
of  the  clerks  came  out  and  said  to  my 
mother,  'Widow  Smith,  it's  a  shame 
that  you  should  have  to  pay  tithing." 
He  said  a  number  of  other  things  that 
I  remember  well,  but  they  are  not  nec- 
essary for  me  to  repeat  here.  The  first 
two  letters  of  the  name  of  that  tithing 
clerk  was  William  Thompson,  and  hfe 
chided  my  mother  for  paying  her  tith- 
ing, called  her  anything  but  wise  or 
prudent;  and  said  there  were 
others  who  were  strong  and 
able  to  work  that  were  supported 
from  the  tithing  office.  My  mother 
turned  upon  him  and  said:  "William, 
you  ought  to  be  ashamed  of  yourself. 
Would  you  deny  me  a  blessing?  If  I 
did  not  pay  my  tithing,  I  should  expect 
the  Lord  to  withhold  His  blessings  from 
me.  I  pay  my  tithing,  not  only  be- 
cause it  is  a  law  of  God,  but  because  I 
expect  a  blessing  by  doing  it.  By  keep- 
ing this  and  other  laws,  I  expect  to 
prosper  and  to  be  able  to  provide  for 
my  family."  Though  she  was  a  widow, 
you  may  turn  to  the  records  of  the 
Church  from  the  beginning  unto  the 
day  of  her  death,  and  you  will  find 
that  she  never  received  a  farthing  from 
the  Church  to  help  her  support  herself 
and  her  famil-y;  but  she  paid  in  thou- 
sands of  dollars  in  wheat,  potatoes, 
corn,  vegetables,  meat,  etc.  The  tithes 
of  her  sheep  and  cattle,  the  tenth  pound 
of  her  butter,  her  tenth  chicken,  the 
tenth  of  her  eggs,  the  tenth  pig,  the 
tenth  calf,  the  tenth  colt — a  tenth  of 
everything  she  raised  was  paid.  Here 
sits  my  brother,  who  can  bear  testi- 
mony to  the  truth  of  what  I  say,  as  can 
others  who  knew  her.  She  prospered 
because  she  obeyed  the  laws  of  God. 
She  had  abundance  to  sustain  her 
family.    We  never  lacked  so  much  as 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F  SMITH. 


many  others  did;  for  while  we  found 
nettle  greens  most  acceptable  when  we 
first  came  to  the  valley;  and  while  we 
enjoyed  thistle  roots,  segoes  and  all  that 
kind  of  thing,  we  were  no  worse  off 
than  thousands  of  others,  and  not  so 
bad  off  as  many,  for  we  were  never 
without  corn-meal  and  milk  or  butter, 
to  my  knowledge.  Then  that  widow 
had  her  name  recorded  in  the  book  of 
the  law  of  the  Lord.  That  widow  was 
entitled  to  the  privileges  of  the  house  of 
God.  No  ordinance  of  the  Gospel  could 
be  denied  her,  for  she  was  obedient  to 
the  laws  of  God,  and  she  would  not  fail 
in  her  duty  when  though  discouraged 
from  observing  a  commandment  of  God 
by  one  who  was  in  an  official  position. 

This  may  be  said  to  be  per- 
sonal. By  some  it  may  be 
considered  egotistical.  But  I  do  not 
speak  of  it  in  this  light.  When  William 
Thompson  told  my  mother  that  she 
ought  not  to  pay  tithing,  I  thought  he 
was  one  of  the  finest  fellows  in  the 
world.  I  believed  every  word  he  said. 
I  had  to  work  and  dig  and  toil  myself. 
I  had  to  help  plow  the  ground,  plant  the 
potatoes,  hoe  the  potatoes,  dig  the  pota- 
toes, and  all  that  sort  of  thing,  and 
then  to  load  up  a  big  wagon-box  full  of 
the  very  best  we  had,  leaving  out  the 
poor  ones,  and  bringing  the  load  to  the 
tithing  office,  I  thought  in  my  childish 
way  that  it  looked  a  little  hard,  es- 
pecially when  I  saw  certain  of  my  play- 
mates and  early  associates  of  childhood, 
playing  around,  riding  horses  and  hav- 
ing good  times,  and  who  scarcely  ever 
did  a  lick  of  work  in  their  lives,  and  yet 
were  being  fed  from  the  public  crib. 
Where  are  those  boys  today?  Are  they 
known  in  the  Church?  Are  they  prom- 
inent among  the  people  of  God?  Are 
they  or  were  they  ever  valiant  in  the 
testimony  of  Jesus  Christ?  Have  they 
a  clear  testimony  of  the  truth  in  their 
hearts?  Are  they  diligent  members  of 
the  Church?  No,  and  never  have  been — 
as  a  rule — and  most  of  them  are  dead 
or  vanished  out  of  sight.  Well,  after  I 
got  a  few  years  of  experience,  I  was 
converted,  I  found  that  my  mother  was 
right  and  that  William  Thompson  was 
wrong.  He  denied  the  faith,  aposta- 
tized, left  the  country  and  led  away  as 
many  of  his  family  as  would  go  with 
him.    I  do  not  want  you  to  deny  me 


49 

the  privilege  of  being  numbered  with 
those  who  have  the  interests  of  Zion  at 
heart  and  who  desire  to  contribute  their 
proportion  to  the  upbuilding  of  Zion 
and  for  the  maintenance  of  the  work  of 
the  Lord  in  the  earth.  It  is  a  blessing 
that  I  enjoy,  and  I  do  not  propose  that 
anybody  shall  deprive  me  of  that  pleas- 
ure. 

This  is  the  way  I  feel  in  relation  to 
the  principle  of  tithing.  We  must  pro- 
vide revenue  for  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  the- 
proper  way  to  do  it  is  by  giving  to  the- 
Lord  the  one-tenth  that  he  asks  of  us. 
Those  who  will  do  this,  will  receive  the 
reward  that  he  has  promised.  There 
is  a  promise  of  blessing  attached 
to  the  observance  of  this  law  (Mai.  3: 
10 — 13.)  If  you  will  sanctify  the  land' 
of  Zion  unto  the  Lord  through  the 
observance  of  this  law,  it  shall  be  a, 
land  of  Zion  unto  you.  The  Lord  wilt 
bless  the  land  and  make  it  fruitful 
unto  you,  as  He  did  the  land  of  the 
children  of  Israel.  In  ancient  times 
the  Lord  blessed  the  earth  for  those 
who  observed  the  law  of  tithing  (2 
Chron.  31:  5).  This  law  was  given  to 
the  children  of  Israel,  and  when  they 
obeyed  it  they  were  prospered  and 
had  abundance;  when  they  disobeyed 
it,  they  were  afflicted  with  drough,  with 
mildew,  with  rust,  with  the  devouring 
insect,  and  they  were  impoverished  and 
destroyed  because  they  did  not  ob- 
serve the  law.  Now,  it  makes  no  dif- 
ference what  happened  to  the  ancients, 
or  what  the  results  may  be  to  me. 
Though  the  Lord  should  try  me  by 
withholding  His  blessing  from  me  and 
making  me  to  drink  to  the  very  dregs 
the  bitter  cup  of  poverty,  that  should 
make  no  difference  to  me.  The  point  is, 
what  is  the  law  of  God?  And  if  I  know 
that  law,  it  is  my  duty  to  obey  it, 
though  I  suffer  death  in  consequence. 
Many  a  man  has  gone  to  the  stake  in 
obedience,  as  he  belteved,  to  the  com- 
mandments of  God.  Not  one  of  the 
ancient  disciples  who  were  chosen  of 
Jesus  Christ,  escaped  martyrdom,  ex- 
cept Judas  and  John.  Judas  betrayed 
the  Lord,  and  then  sacrificed  his  own 
life;  and  John  received  the  promise 
of  the  Lord  that  he  should  live  until  he 
came  again  to  the  earth.  All  the  oth- 
ers were  put  to  death,  some  crucified,. 


50 


CEAERAL  CONFERENCE. 


some  dragged  in  the  streets  of  Rome, 
some  thrown  from  pinnacles,  and  some 
stoned  to  death.  What  for?  For  obey- 
ing the  law  of  God  and  bearing  testi- 
mony to  that  which  they  knew  to  be 
true.  So  may  it  be  today.  But  let  the 
spirit  of  this  Gospel  be  so  imbedded  in 
my  soul  that  though  I  go  through  pov- 
erty, through  tribulation,  through  per- 
secution, or  to  death,  let  me  and  my 
house  serve  God  and  keep  His  laws. 
However,  the  promise  is  that  you 
shall  be  blessed  through  obedience.  God 
will  honor  them  that  honor  Him,  and 
will  remember  them  that  remember 
Him.  He  will  uphold  and  sustain  all 
those  who  sustain  truth  and  are  faith- 
ful to  it.  God  help  us  therefore  to  be 
faithful  to  the  truth,  now  and  forever, 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus, 
Amen. 

ELDER  WM.  H.  SMART, 

president  of  the  Eastern  States  mission, 
said:  I  take  great  pleasure  in  assem- 
bling with  you  in  this  conference  and  I 
am  enjoying  a  spiritual  feast,  in  lis- 
tening to  the  counsels  that  come  to  us 
from  God  through  His  Holy  servants. 
The  uppermost  thought  in  my  mind  is 
that  God  has  indited  the  counsels  that 
have  been  given  to  us  in  our  meetings 
thus  far.  I  have  been  away  from  the 
body  of  the  Church  for  two  years,  as 
a  missionary  to  the  Eastern  States. 
While  I  have  been  absent  when  confer- 
ence time  has  rolled  around  my  spirit 
has  been  here  and  I  have  longed  to  sit 
under  the  sanctuary  and  receive  the 
word  of  God  as  it  is  given  from  time  to 
time  by  His  servants.  I  desire  to  bear 
my  testimony  to  you,  my  co-laborers, 
"  that  God  has  inspired  His  Prophet  in 
this  day  with  regard  to  the  law  of  tith- 
ing, and  that  this  spirit  is  not  only  in 
Zion  but  that  it  has  spread  abroad  into 
every  part  of  the  world  where  the 
Saints  and  Elders  are  living.  A  little 
less  than  a  year  •  ago,  after  the  word 
of  the  Lord  had  come  through  our 
Prophet  with  regard  to  this  law  of  tith- 
ing, we  caught  up  the  spirit  of  it  in  the 
Eastern  States  mission.  It  electrified  us. 
It  was  nothing  but  the  power  of  God 
that  did  it.  The  spirit  bore  witness  to 
us  that  that  word  was  from  God  and 
that  it  was  not  of  man.  I  do  not  feel 
that  I  have  power  to  take  up  your  val- 


uable time  this  morning,  but  I  did  want 
to  bear  this  testimony  unto  you,  and  I 
do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  E.  H.  NYE, 
president  of  the  California  mission: 
My  brothers  and  sisters,  it  is  a  wonder- 
ful privilege  to  meet  with  you  in  this 
conference.  It  seems  as  though  I  am 
hardly  able  to  control  my  feelings,  I 
am  so  overcome  with  joy  in  meeting 
with  the  Saints  of  the  Most  High.  The 
spirit  that  has  prevailed  throughout 
this  conference  thus  far  has  been  a  joy 
to  my  soul.  I  thank  the  Lord  my  God 
and  my  brethren  the  Presidency  that  I 
have  been  permitted  to  come  to  Zion 
from  the  State  of  California,  where  I 
have  been  laboring  for  the  last  three 
years  and  a  half  as  a  missionary.  This 
grand  question  of  tithing  has  been  with 
us,  and  I  bear  testimony  with  my 
brother,  Elder  Smart,  who  has  just  pre- 
ceded me,  that  the  same  spirit  permeat- 
ed the  hearts  of  the  Saints  throughout 
the  State  of  California,  so  much  so  that 
they  have  come  to  the  front,  paid  their 
tithes  and  their  offerings  and  enabled 
us  to  carry  on  the  mission  in  that  part 
of  the  world.  I  rejoice  in  this  and  in 
the  testimony  that  has  been  given  and 
in  the  spirit  that  has  actuated  the  ser- 
vants of  God, who  have  spoken  to  us  the 
words  of  life  and  salvation  in  these 
meetings.  It  seems  to  me  that  if  we 
could  comprehend  the  situation,  every 
man  and  woman  would  rise  in  the 
strength  of  their  manhood  and 
womanhood  and  rejoice  in  the 
privilege  of  performing  this  won- 
derful work.  We  have  in  our  own  hands 
a  key  to  the  spiritual  blessings  of  the 
Almighty.  We  meet  together  in  our 
various  wards  and  branches  and  par- 
take of  the  sacred  emblems  of  the  flesh 
and  blood  of  our  Lord  and  Master 
Jesus  Christ.  I  am  always  impressed 
with  the  importance  of  that  sacred  or- 
dinance, for  in  that  it  seems  to  me  we 
have  a  key  to  the  spiritual  blessings 
of  the  Almighty.  Let  me  call  your  at- 
tention for  a  moment  to  what  we  do  in 
partaking  of  that  ordinance: 

"Witness  unto  thee.  O  God,  the  Eter- 
nal Father,  that  they  are  willing  to  take 
upon  them  the  name  of  thy  Son,  and  al- 
ways remember  Him,  and  keep  His 
commandments  which  he  has  given 
them." 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES. 


51 


What  for?  "That  they  may  always 
have  His  spirit  to  be  with  them."  Every 
time  that  we  partake  of  that  sacred 
ordinance  we  enter  into  a  covenant 
with  the  Lord  that  we  will  keep  the 
commandments  He  has  given.  What 
are  the  commandments?  "Love  one 
another,"  is  one  of  them.  "Thou  shalt 
net  lie,"  is  another.  And  our  brethren, 
the  Presidency  and  the  Twelve,  have 
been  impressing  upon  us  in  a  most  won- 
derful manner  that  there  is  a  command- 
ment to  pay  our  tithing.  Now  if  we  go 
to  meeting,  partake  of  this  sacred  or- 
dinance, enter  into  this  covenant  anew, 
and  then  ignore  these  commandments, 
do  we  not,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
become  covenant  breakers  before  the 
Almighty?  This  is  the  way  it  strikes 
me.  This  ordinance  is  instituted  that 
we  may  continually  renew  our  obliga- 
tions unto  the  Lord,  and  the  ordinance 
itself  says  what  we  do  it  for— that  we 
may  always  have  His  spirit  to  be  with 
us.  Some  of  the  brethren  have  quoted 
from  the  Book  of  Mormon.  I 
will  call  attention  to  one  pas- 
sage in  it.  On  the  occasion 
of  our  Lord  and  Master  Jesus  Christ 
visiting  the  people  upon  this  continent, 
He  called  them  to  prayers.  He  prayed, 
and  they  prayed: 

"And  they  did  pray  for  that  which 
they  most  desired;  and  they  desired 
that  the  Holy  Ghost  should  be  given 
unto  them." 

And  further  on  the  Book  of  Mormon 
tells  us,  after  enumerating  the  won- 
derful gifts  and  blessings  that  the  Lord 
bestowed  upon  the  people,  that  it  was 
because  the  love  of  God  did  dwell  in 
the  hearts  of  the  people.  This  is  a  key 
to  the  whole  grand  question.  If  we 
will  keep  the  covenants  that  we  make 
before  the  Almighty  every  time  we  par- 
take of  this  solemn  ordinance,  we  shall 
come  right  up  to  the  standard  of  per- 
fection that  the  brethren  have  been 
talking  about,  and  that  those  old  Ne- 
phite  Saints  arrived  at  when  there  was 
no  wickedness  of  any  kind  among 
them,  because  the  love  of  God  did  dwell 
in  their  midst,  and  the  record  declares 
that  they  were  a  most  prosperous  peo- 
ple in  everything.  Here  is  a  lesson  for 
us,  if  we  can  take  it  to  ourselves. 

I  rejoice  in  the  great  work  as  it  is 
rolling  along.    In  the  law  of  tithing 


there  is  a  key  to  the  wealth  and  bless- 
ings of  the  earth;  for  the  Lord  makes 
a  declaration  that  if  we  will  pay  our 
tithes  and  our  offerings  he  will  open  the 
windows  of  heaven  and  pour  forth  such 
blessings  as  there  shall  not  be  room  to 
receive.  These  things  have  been  mani- 
fested time  and  time  again  in  the  Cali- 
fornia mission.  I  could  enumerate  in- 
stances where  individuals  through  the 
payment  of  their  tithes  have  received 
wonderful  gifts  and  blessings;  have 
been  prospered  in  all  that  they  set  their 
hands  to  do,  and  have  proved  to  their 
own  satisfaction  that  the  blessings  of 
the  Almighty  do  come  unto  them 
through  obedience  to  this  command. 
May  God  bless  you.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is  burning; 
The  latter-day  glory  begins  to  come 
forth; 

The  visions  and  blessings  of  old  are  re- 
turning, 

The  angels  are  coming  to  visit  the 
earth. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Rulon  S.  Wells. 


CLOSING  SESSION. 

2  p.  m.,  singing  by  the  choir, 

Behold  the  mountain  of  the  Lord 

In  latter  days  shall  rise, 
On  mountain  tops  above  the  hills, 

And  draw  the  wond'ring  eyes. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph 
E.  Taylor. 
The  choir  sang: 

Come,  listen  to  a  Prophet's  voice, 

And  hear  the  word  of  God, 
And  in  the  way  of  truth  rejoice 

And  sing  for  joy  aloud. 

THE  GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF 
THE  CHURCH 

were  presented  to  the  conference  for 
the  votes  of  the  assemblage,  as  fol- 
lows: 

Lorenzo  Snow,  as  Prophet,  Seer  and 
Revelator  and  President  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
in  all  the  world. 

George  Q.  Cannon,  as  first  counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 


52 


GENERAL  CO AEE PEACE. 


Joseph  F.  Smith  as  second  counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

As  members  of  the  council  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles:  Brigham  Young, 
Francis  M.  Lyman,  John  Henry  Smith, 
George  Teasdale.  Heber  J.  Grant,  John 
W.  Taylor,  Marriner  W.  Merrill,  Anthon 
H.  Lund,  Matthias  F.  Cowley.  Abra- 
ham O.  Woodruff  and  Rudger  Clawson. 

At  this  point  President  Cannon  stated 
that  owing  to  the  death  of  Franklin  D. 
Richards  a  vacancy  had  been  created  in 
the  council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and 
that  the  conference  would  be  given  an 
opportunity  to  vote  for  some  one  to 
fill  the  position.  He  then,  in  this  con- 
nection, presented  the  name  of  Reed 
Smoot,  and  the  vote  was  taken. 

The  counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  the  Twelve  Apostles  as  Pro- 
phets, Seers  and  Revelators. 

Patriarch  of  the  Church— John  Smith. 

First  seven  presidents  of  Seventies- 
Seymour  B.  Young,  Christian  D.  Fjeld- 
sted,  Brigham  Henry  Roberts,  George 
Reynolds,  Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon 
S.  Wells  and  JoseDh  W.  McMurrin. 

William  B.  Preston  as  presiding  Bish- 
op, with  Robert  T.  Burton  and  John  R. 
Winder  as  his  first  and  second  counsel- 
ors. 

Assistant  Church  historians:  John 
Jaques  and  Andrew  Jenson. 

General  Church  board  of  education: 
Lorenzo  Snow,  George  Q.  Cannon,  Karl 
G.  Maeser,  Willard  Young,  Anthon  H. 
Lund,  James  Sharp,  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
John  Nicholson  and  George  H.  Brim- 
hall. 

General  superintendency  of  religion 
classes:  Anthon  H.  Lund,  Karl  G. 
Maeser  and  Rudger  Clawson. 

Lorenzo  Snow,  trustee-in-trust  for 
the  body  of  religious  worshippers 
known  as  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

John  Nicholson,  clerk  of  the  general 
conference. 

The  voting  in  every  instance  was 
unanimous. 

President  Cannon  announced  that,  in 
accordance  with  a  legal  requirement, 
the  names  of  the  members  of  the  board 
of  directors  of  the  Brigham  Young 
Academy,  Provo,  would  be  presented 
for  the  vote  of  the  conference.  They 


are:  George  Q.  Cannon,  Wilson  H. 
Dusenberry,  Brigham  Young,  David 
John,  Karl  G.  Maeser,  Edward  Part- 
ridge, Reed  Smoot,  Susa  Y.  Gates, 
Thomas  R.  Cutler,  Joseph  Don  Carlos 
Young,  William  H.  Seegmiller  and 
Stephen  L.  Chipman. 
The  vote  was  unanimous. 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT, 

of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  said: 

"My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel 
exceedingly  weak  in  standing  before 
this  vast  audience  this  afternoon.  No 
doubt  many  of  you  are  surprised  at  my 
being  called  to  this  position,  but  I  can 
assure  you  that  no  one  in  this  audience 
was  more  astonished  than  I.  Five 
years  ago  I  was  called  by  the  mouth- 
piece of  God  to  occupy  a  position  in  the 
presidency  of  the  Utah  Stake.  That  was 
a  surprise  to  me  at  that  time  and  I 
thought  then  that  the  Lord  moves  in 
a  mysterious  way.  This  afternoon  when 
the  mouthpiece  of  the  Lord  told  me  it 
was  the  will  of  the  Lord  that  I  should 
occupy  a  position  as  one  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles,  I  certainly  felt  a  more  humble 
and  more  weak  instrument  in  his  hands 
for  doing  good  than  ever  I  did  in  my 
life.  I  beg  of  the  brethren  of  the 
Twelve  to  bear  with  me  in  my  mistakes. 
I  beseech  of  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, to  give  me  your  faith  and  prayers 
for  I  need  them,  and  to  fulfill  this  posi- 
tion that  I  am  called  to,  I  must  have 
them.  If  I  can  be  humble  and  have  the 
confidence  of  the  people  and  of  the 
Priesthood,  as  God  has  called  me  so  will 
I  receive  it  in  the  same  spirit;  and  as 
He  gives  me  wisdom  and  light  and  reve- 
lation, just  so  far  can  I  do  His  will  and 
serve  Him  in  this  calling.  If  I  did  not 
know  that  Jesus^  was  the  Christ  and 
that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  was  His  Church  I  can 
assure  you  that  this  calling  that  has 
been  placed  upon  me  would  be  the 
farthest  from  me  to  accept  of  any  posi- 
tion that  I  could  think  of. 

My  life  in  the  past  has  been  in  a  busi- 
ness direction  more  than  in  any  other 
way,  and  now  that  this  change  has 
come  and  this  call  from  God  has  been 
placed  upon  me,  I  hope  and  trust  that 
I  will  do  nothing — aye,  I  would  rather 
lose  my  right  arm  than  to  betray  the 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


53 


confidence  you  have  placed  in  me  this 
day  by  voting  for  me  in  this  position. 
My  only  desire  is  that  God  will  give  me 
power  to  perform  the  duties  that  shall 
devolve  upon  me  acceptably  in  His 
sight,  and  acceptable  to  you,  to  the 
Apostles  and  to  the  mouthpiece  of  God 
upon  this  earth.  To  this  end  I  beseech 
of  you  an  interest  in  your  faith  and 
prayers  that  from  now  on  I  may  be 
clothed  with  the  Priesthood  that  will  be 
some  good  to  the  children  of  men. 

I  ask  God's  choicest  blessings  upon 
His  Church  and  upon  every  member 
thereof,  that  unity,  peace  and  strength 
may  be  with  us  continually  until  we 
become  a  light  unto  the  whole  world, 
as  has  been  predicted.  In  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ  I  ask  it.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 

Future  exaltation  dependent  upon  obedience  to 
law— Having  kept  our  first  estate,  our  present 
aim  should  be  to  keep  well  our  second- 
Heavens  filled  with  higher  truths,  which,  as  we 
progress,  will  be  revealed. 

I  arise,  trusting  that  the  remarks 
which  I  may  be  led  to  make  may  be  in- 
spired by  the  Spirit  of  God.  To  this  end 
I  beseech  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
to  give  me  the  assistance  of  your  faith 
and  prayers,  for  I  would  like  the  time  I 
occupy  to  be  of  profit  to  those  who  lis- 
ten. Time  is  precious,  and  this  is  a  vast 
congregation,  and  they  should  not  be 
kept  here  listening  to  something  that  is 
not  of  worth.  I  do  not  profess  myself 
to  be  able  to  impart  anything  that  is 
worthy  of  being  listened  to  only  as  God 
shall  give  it  through  His  Holy  Spirit. 

I  will  read  a  few  paragraphs  of  the 
88th  section  of  the  book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants. 

"And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you, 
the  earth  abideth  the  law  of  a  celestial 
kingdom  for  it  filleth  the  measure  of  its 
creation,  and  transgresseth  not  the  law. 

'•Wherefore  it  shall  be  sanctified;  yea, 
notwithstanding  it  shall  die,  it  shall  be 
quickened  again,  and  shall  abide  the 
power  by  which  it  is  quickened,  and 
the  righteous  shall  inherit  it; 

"For  notwithstanding  they  die,  they 
also  shall  rise  again  a  spiritual  body; 
"They  who  are  of  a  celestial  spirit  shall 
receive  the  same  body  which  was  a  na- 
tural body,  even  ye  shall  receive  your 
bodies,  and  your  glory  shall  be  that 
glory  by  which  your  bodies  are  quick- 
ened. 


"Ye  who  are  quickened  by  a  portion  of 
the  celestial  glory  shall  then  receive  of 
the  same,  even  a  fulness; 

"And  they  who  are  quickened  by  a 
portion  of  the  terrestrial  glory,  shall 
then  receive  of  the  same,  even  a  full- 
ness: 

"And  also  they  who  are  quickened  by 
a  portion  of  the  telestial  glory  shall 
then  receive  of  the  same,  even  a  full- 
ness; 

"And  they  who  remain  shall  also 
be  quickened;  nevertheless  they  shall 
return  again  to  their  own  place,  to  en- 
joy that  which  they  are  willing  to  re- 
ceive, because  they  were  not  willing  to 
enjoy  that  which  they  might  have  re- 
ceived. 

"For  what  doth  it  profit  a  man  if  a 
gift  is  bestowed  upon  him,  and  he  re- 
ceiveth  not  the  gift?  Behold  he  re- 
joices not  in  that  which  is  given  unto 
him,  neither  rejoices  in  Him  who  is 
the  giver  of  the  gift." 

I  would  like  this  next  paragraph  to  be 
noticed  by  my  hearers: 

"And  again,  verily,  I  say  unto  you, 
that  which  is  governed  by  law  is  also 
preserved  by  law,  and  perfected  and 
sanctified  by  the  same. 

"That  which  breaketh  a  law,  and  abid- 
eth not  by  law,  but  seeketh  to  become 
a  law  unto  itself,  and  willeth  to  abide 
in  sin,  and  altogether  abideth  in  sin, 
cannot  be  sanctified  by  law,  neither  by 
mercy,  justice  nor  judgment.  There- 
fore they  must  remain  filthy  still." 

There  is  to'  my  mind  a  great  amount 
of  importance  in  these  words  that  I 
have  read  in  your  hearing,  and  they 
should  be  understood  by  us,  because 
they  pertain  to  our  future  exaltation. 
We  have  been  taught  by  the  Lord  that 
this  is  a  preparatory  state,  that  we  are 
here  to  be  tested,  to  see  whether  we 
shall  prove  worthy  of  the  promises  that 
he  has  made  unto  his  children.  He 
has  given  unto  all  of  us  our  free  agency, 
and  that  agency  is  differently  exercised. 
We  see  mankind  divided  into  classes. 
Some  exercise  their  agency  in  one  direc- 
tion and  some  in  another,  and  there  is 
a  great  diversity  of  views  and  aims 
among  the  children  of  earth.  But  the 
Latter-day  Saints  have  had  revelation 
given  to  them,  which  places  them,  it 
may  be  said,  in  a  position  different  to 
the  rest  of  the  world.  We  are  not  ig- 
norant of  the  purposes  of  God.  We 
have  been  informed  why  we  are  here 
and  what  we  should  do  to  obtain  the 
glory  that  God  promises  unto  his  faith- 
ful children.  We  have  had  pointed  out 
to  us  the  path  to  pursue  <-o  continue 
progression. 


51 


CEJSiERAL  CONFERENCE. 


We  all  believe,  I  suppose,  that  we  have 
kept  our  first  estate,  or  we  would  not  be 
here.   The  reward  of  our  fidelity  in  our 
pre-existent  state  is  manifest  in  the 
fact  that  we  have  received  earthly  tab- 
ernacles.   We  have  taken  a  great  step 
in  advance  by  being  permitted  to  come 
here.     Now    much  depends    upon  our 
second  estate  and  the  manner  in  which 
we  keep  it.    If  we  are  faithful  in  our 
second  estate,  as  we  were  in  our  first, 
then  glory  will  be  added  to  us,  and  we 
shall     go   on     progressing  eternally. 
Through  the  revelation  of  God's  will 
and   our   observance    of  it,  the  oppor- 
tunitj"  is  given  us  to  continue  in  the 
path  of  progress.    The  Lord  has  shown 
to  us  that  there  are  differences  of  re- 
wards.   Some  of  his  children  will  at- 
tain to  what  is  called  celestial  glory. 
Others    of  his  children    will    not  have 
faith  enough  nor  exercise  their  agency 
in    the  direction    to  gain  that  glory; 
but     they       will        gain  terres- 
trial glory.     There  are  others  that  will 
not  progress  that  far;   they  will  feel 
reluctant  to  obey  the  laws  that  pertain 
to  the  terrestrial,  and  they  will  ob- 
tain telestial  glory.      There  are  still 
others  that  will  not  attain  even  to  the 
telestial  glory.     Why  is  it  that  there 
are  these  differences?     Is  it  because 
God  has  chosen  some  of  us  for  the  teles- 
tial   glory,  some  of  us  for  the  terres- 
trial glory,  and    some    of    us  for  the 
celestial  glory?    No,  there  is  no  such 
predestination   as  this.      We   are  all 
born  with  our  free  agency;  with  the 
power  within  ourselves,  aided  by  the 
blessing  of  God,to  attain  unto  the  high- 
est glory.     How  shall  we  attain  unto 
the  highest  glory?    There  is  only  one 
way,   and  that  is  by  observing  the 
highest  laws.     The  highest  laws,  when 
obeyed,  bring  as  a  reward  the  highest 
glory;  and  the  man  or  woman  who  ex- 
pects  to  attain  to  the  highest  glory 
without  obeying  these  laws,  deceives 
himself  or  herself.     It  cannot  be  done. 
If  I  rise  above  the  telestial  glory,  I 
must  obey  a  law  that  will  lift  me  above 
that.     If  I  rise  to  the  terrestrial  glo- 
ry, it  will  be  by    obeying  terrestrial 
law.     If  I  do  not  obey  laws  higher  than 
that,  I  cannot  attain  to  a  higher  glory. 

I  want  to  impress  upon  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  our  exalta- 
tion, our  future  glory,  depends  entirely 


upon  our  obedience  to  law.     We  should 
not  lose  sight  of  this.      A  man  will 
come  along  and  say,  "I  believe  in  Je- 
sus; I  am  willing  to  repent  of  my  sins; 
I  want  to  be  baptized  for  the  remis- 
sions of  my  sins  and  I  want  to  receive 
the  laying  on   of  hands  and  become 
a  member  of  the  Church."     He  obeys 
these  requirements  and  ordinances.  He 
then  says,  "I  hear  the  Elders  talk  about 
gathering,     and    I    do  not    see  any 
necessity   for   it.     I  do   not   see  why 
I     cannot    worship     God       in  the 
place      where      I      embraced  the 
Gospel,     as     well     as     if     I  were 
to       gather.        I     hear      a  good 
deal  about  Zion.    Some  of  the  Elders 
tell  me  what  a  glorious  condition  of 
existence  there  is  there,  while  others 
say  there  are  many  evils  in  Zion,  and  I 
don't  think  I  will  gather  there."  Will 
that  man  attain  unto  celestial  glory?  I 
leave  this  question  with  you  to  answer. 
How  can  he?    It  is  necessary  that  he 
should  gather.    Why?    Because  it  is  a 
command  of  God  that  His  Saints  shall 
gather,  and  a  man  cannot  receive  the 
reward  of  gathering  without  he  obeys 
the  law  of  God  on  that  subject.  There 
are  many  reasons  for  this,  with  which 
you  are  all  familiar.    In  the  first  place 
he  cannot  receive  his  endowments.  Can 
a  man  attain  unto  celestial  glory  with- 
out receiving  his  endowments?  Under 
some    circumstances    he    can.    If  he 
should   die,   as   some   of  our  faithful 
brethren  have,  before  endowments  were 
given,  no  doubt  he  would  be  judged  by 
the  Lord  according  to  his  opportunities 
and  his  willingness.   But  speaking  gen- 
erally, men  and  women  cannot  receive 
celestial  glory  without  having  the  ordi- 
nances that  pertain  to  the  endowments. 
Men  and  women  cannot  be  united  for 
eternity  unless-  they  are  united  by  the 
Priesthood  of  God  in  the  place  appoint- 
ed   for    the    administration    of  that 
ordinance.   The  union   of  husband  and 
wife,  of  parents  and  children  depends 
upon  obedience  to  law,  and  they  cannot 
get  into  the  celestial  kingdom  without 
they  obey  these  laws.   Other  command- 
ments of  the  Lord  might  be  mentioned 
in  this  connection.    We  are  command- 
ed to  live  by  every    word  that  pro- 
ceedeth  from  the  mouth  of  God.  We 
must  do  this.     The  Lord  reveals  His 
word  to  His  Church;  that  word  must 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


55. 


be  obeyed,  if  we  expect  to  reach  the 
celestial  glory.  Besides  these  precious 
records  that  we  have— the  Bible,  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  the  Book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  and  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price— there  must  be  some  other  power 
among  the  people  of  God.  These  books 
alone  will  never  save  this  people.  I  ex- 
pect some  of  you  may  be  shocked  at 
this  statement.  It  is  neverthe- 
less true.  All  these  works, 
divine  as  they  are,  pure  as  they  are, 
cannot  save  this  people.  There  must 
be  something  else;  and  God  has  placed 
in  His  Church  the  living  oracles,  to 
guide  and  govern  the  Church.  We  know 
by  experience  that  unless  we  had  had 
the  living  oracles,  Ave  would  have  been 
in  the  worst  possible  position.  For 
instance,  where  is  there  a  command- 
ment given  concerning  the  migration 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  the  valleys 
of  the  mountains.  Of  course,  the 
Prophet  Joseph  prophesied  concerning 
it,  but  there  was  no  command  given. 
The  Lord,  however,  through  His  living 
oracles,  revealed  to  the  Church  His 
will  concerning  it,  and  under  the  lead- 
ership of  the  living  oracles  the  Church 
came  to  these  valleys.  Almost  every 
day  we  are  doing  acts  under  the  direc- 
tion of  the  living  oracles  which  are  es- 
sentially necessary  for  the  people  of 
God,  but  which  are  not  commanded  in 
any  of  these  books.  There  is  nothing 
foreshadowed  in  the  records  concerning 
many  acts  that  are  performed  from 
time  to  time  by  the  direction  of  the 
Lord  through  his  living  oracles.  He 
has  placed  them  in  the  Church  to  guide 
the  Church.  This  book  (pointing  to 
the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants), 
divine  as  it  is,  is  insufficient.  It  re- 
veals certain  things,  but  does  it  reveal 
the  polity  of  the  work?  Does  it  reveal 
the  mind  and  will  of  God  concerning 
His  Church?  Only  so  far  as  it  goes. 
There  must  be  a  stream  of  living  revel- 
ation flowing  from  God  to  His  servants 
whom  He  has  placed  to  preside  over 
His  Church.  It  was  needed  this  after- 
noon to  fill  up  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve.  We  had  to  know  the  mind  and 
will  of  the  Lord  concerning  that  im- 
portant thing.  Is  there  anything  in 
any  of  these  books  which  says  that 
George  Q.  Cannon  should  be  an  Apostle, 
or  Joseph  F.  Smith,  or  any    of  these 


men  who  are  Apostles?  Not  a  word.. 
How  is  this  determined  then?  It 
comes  through  the  living  oracles,  the 
authority  that  God  has  placed  in  His 
Church  to  govern  and  dictate. 
Of  course,  these  books,  as  I  have 
said,  are  of  inestimable  value  to  us 
as  a  people,  because  they  contain  the 
word  of  God.  And  that  which  is  written 
agrees  with  that  which  is  unwritten. 
There  is  no  clash;  there  never  will  be„ 
because  they  come  from  the  same 
source.  They  are  both  true,  and  there 
is  no  conflict  between  two  truths.  That 
is  our  position. 

I  think  it  is  of  great  importance  to  us 
as  a  people  to  know  what  we  shall  do. 
Are  we  content  to  aim  for  telestial 
glory.  I  never  heard  a  prayer  offered, 
especially  in  the  family  circle,  in  which 
the  family  does  not  beseech  God  to  give 
them  celestial  glory.  Telestial  glory 
is  not  in  their  thoughts.  Terrestrial 
glory  may  be  all  right  for  honorable 
Gentiles,  who  have  not  faith  enough  to 
believe  the  Gospel  and  who  do  right 
according  to  the  best  knowledge  they 
have;  but  celestial  glory  is  our  aim — I 
perhaps  should  not  say  it  is  the  aim, 
for  sometimes  it  is  not,  but  it  is  the 
hope.  If  into  a  family  that  had 
just  offered  prayer,  and  had 
asked  God  to  lead  them  into 
the  celestial  kingdom,  an  angel 
should  enter  and  should  say  to  them 
that  their  prayers  were  useless  and  that 
they  would  never  attain  unto  celestial 
glory,  what  a  feeling  would  be  produced 
in  the  breasts  of  that  family!  How  sor- 
rowful and  afflicted  they  would  feel! 
Yet,  as  I  have  said,  while  it  is  the  aim 
of  many,  they  do  not  act  as  if  it  were 
their  true  aim.  They  either  misconceive 
the  nature  of  the  duties  they  have  to 
perform  to  attain  to  celestial  glory,  or 
else  they  are  very  blind  indeed. 

I  ask  again,  what  is  your  aim,  or  my 
aim?  What  do  I  desire?  If  I  desire 
celestial  glory,  the  highest  law  that  God 
has  revealed  I  will  be  willing  to  obey, 
and  to  observe  every  word  that  pro- 
ceedeth  from  His  mouth.  I  do  not  want 
to  speak  of  myself,  but  if  there  is  a  law 
that  God  has  revealed  and  it  is  neces- 
sary to  be  obej'ed  befoi'e  celestial  glory 
can  be  reached,  I  want  to 
know      it     and    obey    it.    All  that 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I        am  this      earth  for 

is  to  get  celestial  glory.  I  do  not  want 
my  second  estate  to  be  a  failure.  I 
want  to  keep  it  as  valiantly  and  as 
correctly  as  I  hope  I  did  my  first  es- 
tate. I  believe  with  all  my  heart  that 
I  kept  my  first  estate.  I  believe  that 
Satan,  with  all  his  blandishments  and 
sophistry,  had  not  the  power  to  induce 
me  to  follow  him.  Now  I  am  here  on 
the  earth,  and  God  has  revealed  to  me 
why  I  am  here.  He  wants  me  to  be 
true  to  Him  in  the  midst  of  these  trials 
and  temptations,  and  in  the  midst  of 
the  darkness  that  prevails.  He  wants 
me  to  be  unswerving  in  my  integrity 
and  in  the  keeping  of  His  laws.  He 
wants  me  to  come  back  to  Him  as  His 
loyal,  faithful,  obedient  child.  He  not 
only  wants  me  to  do  this,  but  He  wants 
all  of  us  to  do  so;  to  say  to  Satan,  We 
will  not  be  deceived  by  you,  but  we 
will  endure  all  things  for  the  sake  of 
our  Father  and  the  glory  that  He  has 
in  store  for  us.  This  is  my  desire; 
and  it  is  your  desire,  when  you  are 
aroused.  You  have  shown  it  as  far  as 
you  have  gone.  But  something  comes 
along  that  you  hesitate  about,  and  you 
say  in  effect,  "that  law  is  a  little  too 
high  for  me,  my  faith  is  not  sufficient 
to  obey  it."  We  heard  Brother  Claw- 
son  this  morning  repeat  the  expres- 
sions of  some  concerning  the  law  of 
tithing,  and  those  expressions  illustrate 
what  I  am  now  dwelling  upon.  A 
commandment  has  been  given,  a  law 
has  been  proclaimed,  and  some  have 
not  seen  the  necessity  of  obeying  it. 
They  seem  to  be  content  with  what 
they  have  done.  Brethren  and  sisters, 
when  you  know  that  your  eternal  exal- 
tation depends  upon  obeying  '  law, 
will  you  hesitate  and  say  "I  have  not 
faith  enough  for  that;  it's  too  high  for 
me;  it  requires  too  great  a  sacrifice  on 
my  part,  and  I  cannot  receive  it;  the 
laws  of  the  terrestrial  kingdom  are 
more  suited  to  my  faith  and  my  de- 
sires, and  I  am  willing  to  be  content 
with  that  glory."  Will  you,  I  repeat, 
hesitate  in  rendering  obedience,  and 
argue  thus  to  yourselves? 

I  want  to  bring  this  home  to  your 
minds  this  afternoon,  my  brethren  and 
sisters.  Personally  I  have  never 
felt  to  say  what  I  would  do  in 
the  midst    of    trial.       I    have  heard 


brethren  talk  about  their  willingness 
to  lay  down  their  lives  for  this  Gospel; 
but  I  have  always  been  afraid  to  say 
much  about  this  on  my  part,  for  fear  if 
I  should  be  put  to  the  test  I  might  not 
be  able  to  stand  it.  At  the  same  time 
the  desire  in  my  heart,  although  I  may 
not  express  it,  is  to  do  everything  that 
God  requires  at  my  hands.  I  would 
like  to  be  valiant  enough  to  die  if  the 
time  ever  came  that  I  had  to  die  for  it. 
God  help  me  at  such  an  hour.  I  never 
yet  have  shrunk  nor  had  fear  in  this 
respect;  but  I  do  not  know  how  soon 
I  may,  for  I  am  a  poor  human  being. 
But  I  rejoice  in  the  Gospel,  and  I  feel 
that  if  there  is  anything  of  earth  that 
the  Lord  has  given  me  control  of,  I 
would  like  to  put  it  where  He  wants  it. 
I  want  to  help  forward  His  work  in 
every  possible  way,  not  only  by  my 
means  and  my  ability,  but  by  whatever 
I  have;  for  I  want  celestial  glory.  I 
crave  that  with  all  my  heart.  I  feel  as 
though,  with  God's  help,  I  would  make 
any  sacrifice  to  obtain  it,  and  obey  any 
law,  be  it  ever  so  high,  so  far  revealed. 

We  have  not  got  all  yet.  I  expect 
higher  laws  will  be  revealed  to  us  as 
we  ascend  nearer  and  nearer  to  our 
Father  in  heaven.  Therefore  we  should 
prepare  ourselves  for  this,  and  as  fast 
as  we  can  be  willing  to  obey  the  laws 
that  God  reveals  to  us.  You  have  heard 
during  this  conference  considerable  on 
the  subject  of  tithing.  In  one  sense  it 
is  a  small  matter  to  pay  tithing.  I  con- 
sider it  like  the  A.  B.  C.  of  the  Gospel. 
The  promises  concerning  it  are  great, 
and  it  is  such  an  easy  matter  to  give 
one-tenth  of  all  we  have.  Then  why  is 
it  dwelt  upon  so  much  during  this  con- 
ference? Because  this  people  called 
Latter-day  Saints  are  default- 
ers, because  they  have  utterly  failed  in 
keeping  this  law.  It  is  just  as  neces- 
sary that  we  should  warn  you  about 
tithing  as  it  would  be  to  warn  you 
about  the  necessity  of  th'e  laying  on  of 
hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  if 
you  had  not  received  that  ordinance.  If 
this  congregation  had  gone  as  far  as 
baptism  and  then  had  settled  down  and 
not  desired  the  laying  on  of  hands,  we 
would  preach  to  you  with  all  our  might, 
and  impress  upon  you  the  importance  of 
being  obedient  to  that  ordinance.  And 
you  would  not  be  surprised  at  that.  If 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


57 


you  heard  us  talking-  to  people  who 
were  in  that  condition,  you  would  say 
that  we  were  doing  perfectly  right  in 
impressing  them  with  the  solemnity  of 
the  holy  ordinance  of  laying  on  of 
hands,  for  they  could  not  have  the  Holy 
Ghost  without  it.  Now  what  shall  be 
said  of  tithing?  I  say  to  you  that  in 
your  non-payment  of  tithing  you  have 
stopped  your  progress  and  you  have 
disobeyed  a  command  of  God  just  as 
much  as  if  you  had  refused,  after  you 
had  been  baptized,  to  have  hands  laid 
upon  you;  just  as  much  as  you  would 
have  done,  after  having  received  the 
Gospel,  had  you  refused  to  gather  to 
Zion;  just  as  much  as  you  would  if  you 
came  to  Zion  and  refused  to  go  into  the 
Temple  and  have  saving  ordinances  ad- 
ministered to  you  there,  such  as  the 
ordinance  of  marriage  for  time  and 
eternity  and  other  things.  You  may  or 
may  not  think  as  I  do,  but  I  know  I 
have  taken  the  correct  position  in  this 
matter.  Here  we  have  had  the  word  of 
God  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  for 
sixty-two  years,  and  here  President 
Snow,  the  man  who  now  stands  at  the 
head,  comes  forward  and  tells  the 
the  Church  that  they  are  defaulters  in 
this  thing,  that  they  have  not  obeyed 
this  commandment,  and  that  God  re- 
quires obedience  to  it.  Not  only  so,  but 
he  tells  us  that  we  are  in  danger  of  be- 
ing scourged  of  the  Lord  for  this  dis- 
obedience. I  believe  it  with  all  my 
heart.  I  believe  that  this  con- 
sequence will  follow  our  neglect, 
and  that  the  anger  of  God 
will  be  kindled  against  the  people,  un- 
less they  obey  this  law.  It  is  in  our 
path  of  progress,  and  is  to  be  obeyed, 
not  evaded  and  taken  advantage  of. 
Men  will  take  advantage  of  this  law 
in  many  ways.  They  will  pay  a  tithing 
that  is  not  true.  They  will  not  do  as 
Brother  Joseph  F.  Smith  said  this 
morning  his  mother  did,  pick  out  the 
best;  but  they  will  pick  out  something 
that  is  practically  worthless,  as  though 
they  were  making  a  bargain  with  a 
hard  man  and  glad  to  get  the  advantage 
of  him.  That  is  not  the  spirit  of  tithing. 
No  blessing  will  attend  the  payment  of 
tithing  under  such  circumstances.  Men 
must  feel  that  they  are  doing  this  to 
comply  with  the  law  of  God,  and  that 
for  complying  with  this  law  they  will 
be  rewarded. 


I  hope  that  the  Saints  will  take  this 
view  of  this  law  and  understand  us 
aright.  What  do  I  care,  what  does 
President  Snow  care,  what  do  any  of  us 
care,  whether  you  pay  money  or  not? 
We  are  able  to  live  without  getting 
anything  from  you.  I  thank  God  that 
this  is  the  condition  of  most  of  us,  and 
that  we  can  live  without  being  a  bur- 
den to  the  people,  and  at  the  same  time 
do  our  share  in  helping  the  work  along. 
It  is  not  for  this  that  we  talk  like  we 
do,  but  it  is  because  of  the  importance 
of  it  to  you,  so  that  you  may  carry  this 
out  in  your  lives,  and  then  get  faith 
enough  to  do  something  higher.  It 
has  required  faith  to  obey  some 
laws  that  have  been  revealed 
in  the  past,  and  it  will  require 
faith  to  obey  other  laws  that  will  yet 
be  revealed.  The  heavens  are  full  of 
truth  and  of  everything  that  is  good 
and  noble,  and  many  things  are  re- 
vealed to  the  servants  of  God  which 
they  are  commanded  not  to  reveal  to 
the  people.  Why?  Because  it  would 
try  their  faith.  Joseph  had  things  re- 
vealed to  him  that  he  did  not  make 
known.  I  heard  him  once  say  on  the 
stand,  that  if  he  were  to  tell  what  the 
Lord  had  told  him,  there  were  certain 
persons,  and  he  mentioned  their  names 
one  of  whom  was  an  Apostle, 
that  would  go  around  the  streets 
of  Nauvoo  seeking  his  life.  I  was  a  boy 
at  that  time  and  I  wondered  what  it 
could  possibly  be  that  would  prompt 
those  men,  one  of  them  especially,  to 
do  such  a  thing.  But  there  are  things 
which  God  reveals  pertaining  to  the 
celestial  glory  and  to  the  higher  worlds 
that  the  people  are  not  yet  prepared  to 
receive.  We  will  all  have  to  grow  in 
faith  before  these  things  can  be  made 
known.  Paul,  we  are  told,  saw  things 
that  were  unutterable.  When  the  Lord 
visited  the  Nephites  they  had  things 
shown  to  them  and  their  little  children 
spoke  things  which  could  not  be  writ- 
ten. So  it  is  now.  The  heavens  are  full 
of  knowledge.  To  God  in  his  exalted 
condition,  dwelling  in  the  midst  of  eter- 
nal burnings,  surrounded  by  concourses 
of  holy  angels,  we  are  by  comparison 
almost  insects  in  his  presence.  But  we 
are  his  children.  We  have  within  us 
the  elements  of  Deity  in  their  inchoate 
state,  to  be  developed  as  time  passes  on 
and  as  we  obey  the  laws  of  God.  We 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


think  we  have  taken  a  great  stride 
when  we  have  obeyed  baptism  and  had 
hands  laid  upon  us  and  received  the 
Holy  Ghost.  We  think,  Oh!  what  a 
wonderful  thing  has  come  to  us!  Well, 
it  is  wonderful.  But,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  is  just  the  beginning  of 
what  there  is  in  the  future.  The 
heavens  are  full  of  light  and  intelli- 
gence, and  a  little  of  it  has  been  com- 
municated to  us. 

We  should  live  so  as  to  keep  in  this 
path  of  progress,  and  not  stop  at  tith- 
ing, feeling  that  that  is  too  great  an 
obstacle  to  get  over,  and  therefore  cease 
to  progress.  If  you  do,  your  faith  will 
wither,  the  Spirit  of  God  will  withdraw 
from  you,  and  you  will  be  in  the  dark; 
and  in  the  resurrection,  as  I  have  read, 
you  will  be  quickened  by  that  spirit  a 
portion  of  which  you  have  had  here.  If 
you  have  had  only  a  portion  of  the  ter- 
restrial spirit,  you  will  get  a  fullness  of 
it  there.  So  with  the  telestial,  and  so 
with  the  celestial.  You  are  all  going  to 
be  resurrected.  The  earth  is  going  to 
be  resurrected.    It  will  die;  but  it  will 


be  quickened  again,  and  it  will  be  ce- 
lestialized  and  glorified,  as  we  will  be. 
We  ought  to  be  numbered  among  the 
church  of  the  first-born.  I  pray  God 
that  this  may  be  our  happy  lot;  that 
we  all  may  live  so  that  we  shall  be 
counted  among  the  members  of  the ' 
church  of  the  first-born,  and  that  we 
shall  receive  a  fullnes  of  celestial  glory; 
which  I  humbly  ask,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 

Heavenly  Father  we  would  worship 
thy  Great  Name  this  Hallowed  Day. 

The  solo  parts  were  rendered  by  Sis- 
ters Lizzie  Thomas  Edward  and  Mabel 
Cooper. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder 
Francis  M.  Lyman. 

Conference  then  adjourned  for  six 
months. 

The  stenographic  work  in  taking  an 
account  of  the  nroceedings  of  the  Con- 
ference was  done  by  Arthur  Winter. 

JOHN  NICHOLSON, 
Clerk  of  Conference. 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


Its  Semi-Annual  General  Conference. 


The  general  annual  conference  of  the 
Sunday  schools  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held 
at  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Sun- 
day evening,  April  8,  1900,  at  7  o'clock. 
There  were  present  of  the  general  su- 
perintendency,  George  Q.  Cannon  and 
Karl  G.  Maeser,  most  of  the  members  of 
the  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 
Board,  and  aids,  several  of  the  Apos- 
tles, and  many  Stake  superintendents, 
ward  officers,  and  Sunday  school  work- 
ers. The  conference  was  opened  by  the 
Tabernacle  choir  and  congregation  sing- 
ing,   "Do  What  is  Right." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  George 
Teasdale. 

The  choir  sang,  "Prayer  is  the  Soul's 
sincere  desire," 

General  Secretary  Horace  S.  Ensign 
called  the  roll,  which  was  responded  to 
by  thirty-four  Stakes. 

The  secretary  then  read  the  annual 
financial  and  statistical  report  for  year 
ending  December  31st,  1899.  After  which 
he  presented  the  general  Sunday  school 
authorities,  and  they  were  sustained  as 
follows:  Geo.  Q.  Cannon,  general  su- 
perintendent Karl  G.  Maeser,  second 
assistant  general  superintendant;  Hor- 
ace S.  Ensign,  general  secretary; 
George  Reynolds,  general  treasurer;  Leo 
Hunsaker,  assistant  general  secretary 
and  stenographer. 

As  members  of  the  Deseret  Sunday 
School  Union  board:  George  Q.  Cannon, 
Karl  G.  Maeser,  George  Reynolds, 
Thomas  C.  Griggs,  Joseph  W.  Summer- 
hays,  Levi  W.  Richards,  Francis  M. 
Lyman,  Heber  J.  Grant,  Joseph  M.  Tan- 
ner, George  Teasdale.  Hugh  J.  Cannon, 
Andrew  Kimball,  Joseph  P.  Smith  and 
John  W.  Taylor. 

As  aids  to  the  board:  L.  John  Nut- 
tall.  James  W.  Ure,  John  F.  Bennett, 
John  M.  Mills,,  W.  B.  Dougall,  Wm.  D. 


Owen,  Jr.,  Seymour  B.  Young  and  Geo. 
D.  Pyper. 

General  Treasurer  George  Reynolds 
made  a  report  of  the  nickel  fund  do- 
nation received  during  the  last  four 
years. 

A  kindergarten  class  of  eight  little 
girls  from  the  Eleventh  ward,  under  the 
direction  of  Sister  Louie  B.  Pelt,  sang 
two  selections  very  sweetly,  which  were 
greatly  enjoyed  by  the  audience. 

GENERAL  SUPERINTENDENT  GEO. 
Q.  CANNON. 

From  our  statistical  report  it  is  seen 
that  we  number  nearly  120,000, 
in  the  aggregate,  but  if  we 
had  all  the  reports  in  from 
the  various  schools  there  would 
be  upwards  of  121,000.  The  interest  in 
the  Sundav  schools  is  growing.  Every 
meeting  that  we  have  of  this  character 
shows  the  importance,  the  growing  im- 
portance, of  this  institution  among  the 
people,  and  it  is  bearing  abundant 
fruit.  There  are  a  great  many  reasons 
why  we  should  be  zealous  in  this  di- 
rection. The  reports  that  come  to  us 
from  the  presidents  of  missions  con- 
cerning the  ignorance  of  some  of  our 
young  men  who  are  sent  out  to  help 
them  ought  to  stir  us  all  up  to  diligence 
in  imparting  a  knowledge  of  our  prin- 
ciples to  the  rising  generation.  There  is 
a  great  field,  notwithstanding  we  have 
labored  for  so  manv  vears  in  this  di- 
rection, there  is  a  great  need  that  the 
children,  the  young  people  of  this  com- 
munity, be  instructed  thoroughly  in  the 
principles  of  our  religion.  I  feel  to  con- 
gratulate you  on  your  labors,  and  I  can 
say  truly  that  there  is  much  cause  to 
rejoice  in  what  has  been  done.  The 
publications  of  the  Sunday  School 
Union  are  of  such  a  character  as  to  be 
of  great  benefit.  I  wish  to  call  attention, 
particularly,  to  the  Leaflets.    I  do  not 


60 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  ONION. 


think  there  has  been  any  publications 
in  our  Church  that  have  exceeded  in 
value  the  Leaflets  as  they  have  been 
issued  from  time  to  time  by  the  Union. 
I  think  they  are  invaluable.  I  would 
like  all  the  superintendents  and  teach- 
ers to  take  every  pains  in  their  power  to 
have  these  Leaflets  thoroughly  studied 
and  mastered  by  the  young  people. 

I  do  not  wish  to  trespass  upon  your 
time,  as  there  are  many  items  of  busi- 
ness that  have  to  be  attended  to,  but  I 
say  as  I  have  said  before,  God  bless  you 
in  your  labors  and  give  you  great  suc- 
cess and  great  joy  in  continuing  your 
labor  in  this  direction.  I  ask  it  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

SECOND  ASSISTANT  SUPERIN- 
TENDENT KARL  G.  MAESER. 

The  use  of  the  Children's  Sunday 
School  Hymn  Book. 

The  Sunday  school  superintendents 
at  the  Stake  Sunday  school  conferences 
sometimes  report  that  the  Sunday 
school  hymn  books  are  left  at  home  by 
the  children  and  have  gradually  gone 
out  of  use  in  their  Sunday  shools.  Now, 
the  Sunday  School  Union  Board  has 
spent  considerable  means  in  distribut- 
ing these  hymn  books  amongst  the 
schools.  A  great  many  thousands, 
included  in  several  editions  have  been 
published.  Why  has  this  been  done? 
There  is  a  principle  involved  in  the  use 
of  these  hymn  books  to  which  I  wish 
to  call  your  attention.  Look  over  the 
congregations  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
in  their  public  meetings  and  you  will 
perhaps  see  some  old  brother  or  sister 
using  the  standard  hymn  books  of  the 
Church  and  following  the  choir  in  the 
singing,  but  by  far  the  great  majority 
of  the  congregation  have  no  hymn 
books  with  them,  and  cannot,  therefore, 
understand  the  words  which  the  choir 
are  singing.  This  is  all  wrong.  Sing- 
ing is  a  part  of  the  prayer— pleasing  in 
the  sight  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 
When  there  is  a  prayer  being  offered 
to  my  Heavenly  Father,  I  for  one  al- 
ways want  to  share  in  it;  I  want  to  be 
counted  in  that  prayer,  whether  it  is  of- 
fered on  the  stand  by  one  of  the 
brethren  or  whether  it  be  in  the  form 
of  a  song.  How  can  this  be  possible 
if  I  do  not  understand  the  words  that 
are  being  sung?    Well,  I  always  have 


my  book  with  me  and  follow  the  choir 
in  the  singing.  Now,  this  is  the  point: 
We  older  Latter-day  Saints  have  got 
into  the  habit  of  going  to  meeting  with 
our  hymn  books,  and  we  are  going  to 
endeavor  to  get  the  rising  generation 
into  the  habit  of  going  to  meeting  with 
their  hymn  books,  and,  in  order  to  do 
this,  we  must  train  them  in  our  Sun- 
day schools.  Sunday  school  superin- 
tendents have  come  to  me  and  said, 
"Well,  brother  Maeser,  that  is  all  very 
well,  but  how  is  it  to  be  accomplished? 
We  have  talked,  and  talked  and  talked, 
but  it  has  done  no  apparent  good.  What 
course  would  you  advise  us  to  pursue?" 
I  have  advised  them  as  follows:  "My 
brethren  and  sisters,  if  I  were  a 
Sunday  school  teacher  and  had  been  as  - 
signed  by  the  superintendent  to  take 
charge  of  a  certain  department,  and  I 
had  found  since  my  appointment  that 
the  children  in  my  department  were  not 
in  the  habit  of  bringing  their  hymn 
books  with  them.  I  would  say,  "My 
dear  pupils,  I  am  going  to  ask  you  a 
question,  and  that  question  is, 
which  of  you  have  a  hymn  book' 
with  you?  Hold  it  up  and  let  me  see  it. 
That  is  all.  I  am  going  to  ask  you  this 
question  again  next  Sunday.  If  any  of 
you  have  a  hymn  book  bring  it  along 
and  let  me  see  it."  Next  Sunday  comes. 
I  have  sixty  pupils  in  my  department. 
My  question  comes.  "What  question  did 
I  say  I  would  ask  you  today?"  Some 
one  says,  "You  was  going  to  ask  who 
had  a  hymn  book."  "Well,  how  many 
of  you  have  them?"  Four  children  have 
hymn  books  and  are  able  to  hold  them 
up;  the  other  fifty-six  have  none.  I 
would  not  find  fault  or  scold,  or  make 
any  discouraging  remark,  but  I  would 
thank  and  bless  these  four.  "Now  next 
Sunday  I  shaH  ask  you  this  same  ques- 
tion again.  You  four  will  please  bring 
your  hymn  books,  and  if  the  rest  of  you 
will  do  so  I  will  be  obliged."  Next  Sun- 
day comes.  "How  many  of  you  have 
hymn  books  with  you  today?"  Seven. 
I  have  gained  three  now.  I  would  con- 
tinue this  from  one  Sunday  to  another. 
I  have  got  eleven  perhaps  the  next 
Sunday,  then  seventeen,  and  so  on,  un- 
til three  or  four  months  have  passed. 
Never  occupy  too  much  time  in  asking 
these  questions,  only  about  two  min- 
utes, no  longer.    After  three  or  four 


DESERET  SbJSDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


61 


months  there  are  just  five  boys  with- 
out hymn  books,  now  I  will  suppose 
myself  one  of  these  five  boys.  The  oth- 
er fifty-five  have  their  books,  I  cannot 
stand  this  any  longer;  I  am  getting 
ashamed  of  myself.  All  are  beginning  to 
hold  up  their  hymn  books  but  me  and 
the  other  four.  I  cannot  stand  it.  I 
go  home  and  ask  my  father  to  give  me 
ten  cents  with  which  to  buy  a  hymn 
book.  I  get  one  and  hold  it  up  next 
Sunday  with  the  rest,  and  then  there 
are  only  four  now  without  books.  My 
brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  not  hard  to 
do  this,  but  we  must  persevere;  we 
must  never  leave  off  asking  this  ques- 
tion. Neither  must  we  think  that  our 
labor  ends  when  all  bring  their  hymn 
books,  if  we  do  the  scholars  will  be- 
come discouraged  that  no  one  takes 
any  notice  of  their  books,  and  they  will, 
by  and  by,  leave  their  hymn  books  at 
home  again.  Before  the  year  is  ended 
we  are  in  the  same  fix — the  children 
have  no  books  with  them.  We  have  to 
keep  constantly  at  it.  The  children 
are  as  full  of  human  nature  as  we  are. 
They  must  be  noticed,  and  they 
need  some  encouragement.  We  Sunday 
school  workers,  the  grown  up  men 
and  women,  like  a  little  encouragement 
in  our  labors,  once  in  a  while.  So  do 
the  children.  They  must  be  noticed  and 
encouraged  in  their  work  as  much  as  we 
older  ones.  God  bless  you  all  is  my 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

We  find  on  the  137th  page  in  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  the  following: 

"For  my  soul  delighteth  in  the  song  of 
the  heart,  yea,  the  song  of  the  righteous 
is  a  prayer  unto  me,  and  it  shall  be 
answered  with  a  blessing  upon  their 
heads." 

I  have,  all  the  days  of  my  life,  en- 
joyed sinking  very  much.  When  I  was 
a  little  boy  ten  years  of  age  I  joined 
a  singing  class,  and  the  professor  told 
me  that  I  could  never  learn  to  sing. 
Some  years  ago  I  had  my  character 
read  by  a  phrenologist  and  he  told  me 
that  I  could  sing,  but  he  said  he  would 
like  to  be  fortv  miles  away  while  I 
was  doing  it.  (Laughter.)  I  was  prac- 
ticing singing  a  few  weeks  ago  in  the 
Templeton    building-,    and     the  room 


where  I  was  doing  so  was  next  to  that 
of  a  dentist.   The  people  in  the  hall  de- 
cided that  some  one  was  having  his 
teeth  extracted.   (Laughter.)   When  I 
was  a  little  boy  Sister  Eliza  R.  Snow 
exercised  the  gift  of  tongues,  and  the 
interpretation  was  given  by  Sister  Zina 
D.  Young;  and  therein  I  was  promised 
that  I  should  be  chosen  to  be  one  of 
the  leaders  of  the  Church,  and  I  stand 
here  tonight  in  fulfillment  of  that  pre- 
diction. All  the  days  of  my  life  I  have 
tried  to  sing  "O  My  Father,"  written 
by  Sister  Eliza  R.  Snow.  When  I  was 
a  child,  next  to  my  own  mother,  no 
woman  that  ever  lived  took  as  much  in- 
terest in  me,  gave  me  as  much  mother- 
ly advice  or  seemed  to  love  me  more 
than  did  Sister  Snow.    I  loved  her  with 
all  my  heart,  and  loved  her  hymn,  "O 
My  Father."     I  remarked    some  four 
months  ago  to  Brother  Horace  S.  En- 
sign that  I  would  be  willing  to  spend 
four  or  five  months  of  my  spare  time 
if  I  could  only  iearn  to  sing  that  one 
hymn.    He  told  me  that  any  one  could 
learn  to  sing  that  had  perseverance.  I 
said  to  him  if  there  was  anything  that 
I  had  it  was  perseverance.    So  I  sug- 
gested that  we  sit  down  and  I  would 
take  my  first  lesson  of  two  hours  on  that 
song.    I  have  been  continuing  the  les- 
sons on  it  ever  since.    (Laughter.)  I 
have  sung  it  as  high  as  115  times  in  one 
day.    I  have  practiced  on  the  "Doxolo- 
gy"  between  three  and  four  hundred 
times, and  there  are  only  four  lines, and  I 
cannot    sing    it    yet.     (Laughter.)  I 
traveled  from  Holbrook,  Arizona,  to  St. 
John,  with  Brothers  Clawson  and  Kim- 
ball, some  months  ago,  and  I  sang  one 
hundred  times  that  day  and  gave  them 
nervous  prostration.    (Laughter.)  Now 
I  tried  to  sing  "O  My  Father"  at  Snow- 
flake,  Arizona,  and  I  only  got  as  far  as 
the  "O,"  and  I  did  not  get  that  right. 
(Laughter.)    I  have  been  delighted  to- 
night with  the  songs  of  these  little  chil- 
dren, and  I  am  delighted  with  the  sing- 
ing that  we  have  in  our  Sunday  schools. 
A  few  months  before  Brother  Goddard 
died  I  asked  him  to  let  me  copy  the 
songs  contained  in  his  song  book,  and  I 
told  him  that,  though  I  could  not  sing, 
yet  I  would  read  them  to  the  children 
and  would  perpetuate  his  memory  by 
reading  these  songs.    He  made  some 
excuse  at  the  time,  but  shortly  before 


62 


DESERE  T  SUNDA  Y  SCHOOL  UN  10  JV. 


he  died  he  presented  me  with  a  copy 
of  his  song  book,  written  in  his  own 
hand-writing.    I  prize  it  more  highly 
than  money.    I  would  not  exchange  it 
for  its  weight  in  gold.    I  intended  to 
fulfil  my  promise,  but  when  I  learned, 
after  five  or  six  weeks  of  hard  study, 
and  after  singing  one  hymn  thousands 
of  times,  to  sing  a  little  I  decided  not 
to  read  these  songs  to  the  children,  but 
to  learn  to  sing  them  in  the  Sabbath 
schools.    Professor  Heber  S.  Goddard 
is  now  teaching  me  to  sing,  "Who's  on 
the  Lord's  side,  Who?"    I  do  not  know 
how  many  months  it  will  take  him,  but 
I  propose  to  learn  it  some  day,  whether 
it  takes   six     months     or     six  years. 
(Laughter.)   When  I  do,  if  I  get  the  op- 
portunity, I  will  sing  it  here.    I  make 
these  remarks  because  I  feel  that  we 
ought  to  encourage  our  young  people  to 
learn  to  sing.    From  the  standpoint  of 
a  singer,  I  have  lost  thirty-three  years 
of  my  life.    I  was  told,  when  ten  years 
old  that  I  could  never  learn  to  sing.  I 
did  not  learn  until  forty-three  years  of 
age,  and  I  have    spent    four    or  five 
months  trying  to    learn    to    sing  the 
hymns,   "God  moves  in  a  mysterious 
way,"   and   "O  My  Father."     I  have 
learned  one  because  of  the  sentiments 
and  my  love  for  the  author,  and  the 
other  because  the  late  President  Wil- 
ford  Woodruff  loved  it  better  than  any 
other  hymn  in  the  hymn  book.   Now  all 
singers  say  it  is  a  mistake  to  speak  be- 
fore you  sing,  and  therefore  if  I  do  not 
sing  very  well  it  is  because  I  spoke 
first.  (Laughter.) 

Brother  Grant  here  sang  two  stanzas 
of  "O  My  Father." 

Now,  when  Brother  Goddard  used  to 
sing,  when  he  got  off  he  would  try 
again.  I  have  sung  this  two  or 
three  times  with  Brother  Ensign, 
and  I  know  that  I  am  not  singing  it 
right;  I  have  not  pitched  it  right. 
Brother  Goddard  would  try  sometimes 
half  a  dozen  times  to  pitch  a  song.  I 
think  I  had  better  try  and  get  this  in 
a  different  key.  (Laughter). 

Brother  Grant  then  sang  the  conclud- 
ing stanzas.     (In  the  same  key.) 

Now  I  expect  many  of  you  would 
like  to  take  a  trip  of  thirty  or  forty 
miles  when  you  leave  here.  (Laugh- 
ter) .  Now  some  people  will  say  Brother 
Grant  has  made  an  exhibition  of  him- 


self by  singing  here.  I  have  but  one 
object  tonight  in  speaking  and  singing, 
and  that  is  to  encourage  the  young  men 
and  young  ladies  not  to  waste  thirty 
or  forty  years  of  their  lives  before  un- 
dertaking to  sing.  if  i  had  told  the 
congregation  that  I  had  learned  to  sing 
and  had  not  tried  they  would  not  have 
believed  it;  and  many  do  not  believe  it 
now.  (Laughter.)  But  the  fact  re- 
mains that  by  continued  effort  one  can 
learn  to  sing  that  has  no  knowledge 
of  music  whatever,  as  was  the  case 
with  me.  I  did  not  know  one  note 
from  another,  and  could  barely  distin- 
guish one  tune  from  another.  When 
I  first  began  to  learn  to  sing  this  song 
("O  My  Father")  I  would  get  off  on 
nearly  every  line,  and  did  not  know  it. 
I  have  learned  to  know  when  I  am  off. 
I  have  been  off  two  or  three  times  to- 
night. (Laughter).  I  have  been 
troubled  this  evening  with  stage  fright 
and  have  been  very  nervous.  I  have 
sung  this  song  at  least  twenty  times 
in  this  building.  Brother  Ensign  has 
been  behind  me  to  help  me  tonight. 
Probably  next  time  I  will  not  have  this 
stage  fright. 

I  want  to  repeat  to  the  superintend- 
ents and  teachers  that  the  Lord  says 
"the  song  of  the  heart"  is  a  prayer  to 
Him  and  that  it  shall  be  answered  with 
a  blessing  upon  our  heads.  I  have  a 
song  in  my  home  every  morning,  since 
I  learned  to  sing,  and  I  feel  that  it  is  a 
nice  part  of  the  family  worship,  and  I 
feel  that  we  can  increase  the  capacity 
of  our  children  to  sing  and  to  praise 
the  Lord  in  the  songs  of  Zion,  if  we  will 
only  teach  them  to  sing  over  and  over 
again.  May  the  Lord  bless  you,  I  ask 
it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

DR.  J.  M.  TANNER. 

"All  Sunday  School  lessons  should 
have  a  bearing  on  the  Gospel  or  its 
principles. 

We  are  engaged  in  the  instruction  of 
something  like  one  hundred  thousand 
children.  When  the  population  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  is  taken  into  consid- 
eration, this  is  unquestionably  the 
largest  organization  of  children  in  the 
world,  and  our  Sabbath  school  has  its 
distinct  objects,  and,  among  the  aims  of 
our  labors  is  the  cultivation  of  the 
faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  among 


DESERE1  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


€3 


our  children.    It  is  our  aim  to  teach 
them  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  as  we 
have  learned  them,  and  to  make  of 
them  followers  of  our  Lord  and  Savior 
Jesus  Christ,  and  to  inculcate  a  love  of 
that  religion  as  it  has  been  taught  to 
us  and  as  we  understand  it.     It  is 
therefore  desirable  that  all  of  our  Sun- 
day school  lessons  should  have  some  di- 
rect bearing  upon  our    faith.  They 
should  have  those  distinct  qualities  and 
characteristics  that  impress  upon  the 
little  ones  the  thoughts  and  feelings 
associated  with  the  religion  of  their 
parents.     For  that  reason  pamphlets 
have  been  prepared,  courses  of  studies 
have  been  mapped  out  and  instructions 
have  been  given  in  the  methods  of  pre- 
sentation, and  yet  there  is  found,  very 
frequently,  a  disposition  to  make  this 
work  in  the  Sunday  schools  purely  an 
argumentative  work,  and  it  would  be 
oftimes  very  difficult  to  discern  any 
difference  in  the  qualities  of  those  les- 
sons as  taught  by  us  and  those  taught 
by  other  denominations  in  the  world. 
It  is  distinctly  our  aim  and  purpose 
then,  to  give  a  direct  quality  and  bear- 
ing to  this  work  and  make  the  lessons 
correspond  with  the  spirit  of  the  faith 
which  we  have.      Naturally  enough, 
therefore,  we  should  adopt  those  means 
that  will  best  aid  us  in  this  direction. 
We  want  to  know,  then,  how  to  pre- 
sent a  lesson  from  a  "Mormon"  point 
of  view.   We  want  to  know  how  to  give 
these  lessons  a  direct  application  to  our 
faith,  and  that  is  the  object  of  my  re- 
marks tonight.   I  cannot  enter  into  the 
details,  as  time  will  not  permit,  but  I 
can  mention  two  means  by  which  this 
may  be  brought  about.    The  first,  and 
perhaps  most  important  one  is  that  we 
understand  at  the  outset  that  the  pur- 
pose of  religion,  the  purpose  of  teach- 
ing religion,  is  that  our  children  may  be 
taught  to  feel  as  well  as  to  think;  for 
religion  is  not  a  system  of  philosophy, 
however  much  scientists  or  revolution- 
ists may  desire  to  reduce  it  to  a  scien- 
tific basis.    Religion  is  the  Gospel  of 
correct  living,  thinking  and  feeling,  of 
correct  lives,  if  you  please,  including 
all  that  we  are,  including  our  feelings 
as  well  as  our  thoughts,  and  for  that 
reason  we  ought  to  be  instructed  how 
to  think  correctly    and    how  to  feel 
correctly.   It  is  particularly  the  duty  of 


the  Sabbath  school  teacher    to  rouse 
within  the  hearts  of  his  children  those 
intense  feelings  that  are  engendered  by 
a  strong  conviction  of  the  truth  of  the 
work  as  he  has  received  a  testimony  of 
it.   And  how  we  can  teach  the  children 
to  feel— to  feel  as  we  feel?   In  the  first 
place  we.  must  have  strong  convictions 
ourselves,  and  we  must  be  intensely  in- 
terested.   It  must  be  a  work  of  love 
and  come  from  the  heart.    It  must  be 
with  ourselves  a  question    of  correct 
living,  and  above  all  things  we  must 
be  pure  in  heart,  pure  in  our  thoughts 
and  undefiled  in  our  feelings,  constant- 
ly, within  ourselves,  dedicating  our  lives 
to  God  and  to  His  work.    The  Sabbath 
school  teacher  has  to  deal  with  child- 
ren who  are  pure,  who  are  pure  from 
their  infancy,  whose  lives  have  not  been 
contaminated  with  the    ways    of  the 
world,  and  he  should  be  a  man,  or  she 
should  be  a  woman,  qualified  in  every 
respect  to  come  in  contact  with  the  pur- 
ity of  youth,  and  for  that  reason  there 
should  be  a  constant  effort  on  our  part 
to  so  conduct  our  thoughts  and  feelings 
that  they  shall  be  pure  and  sanctified 
before  God.     Therein  lies  our  safety; 
therein  lies  our  success.     Every  man 
carries  with  him  a    certain  influence. 
There   is   within   his   character  those 
qualities  that  make  up  his  general  dis- 
position.  We  cannot  always  define  that 
influence,  but  we  know  that  every  man 
carries  with  him  an  influence  coming 
from  his  own  individuality,  and  that  in- 
dividuality    comes     from     his  own 
thoughts  and  feelings.    Those  subjects 
upon  which  his  thoughts  dwell  are  the 
subjects  that  reach,  through  the  influ- 
ence of  our  presence,  the  feelings  of 
others.    Hence  the  necessity  of  correct 
living.    If  there  is  a  Sabbath  school 
teacher  that  is  not  constantly  striving 
to  better  his  life,  to  purify  his  thoughts 
and  feelings,  he  is  not  fitted  for  the  sub- 
lime work  of  a  teacher  in  the  Sabbath 
school.    For  that  reason,  therefore,  we 
should  constantly  keep  before  us  the 
thought,  the  idea,  that  we  are  directing 
the  feelings  of  the  children,  and  that 
convictions  are   forming  within  them 
that  will  carry  them  through  life,  that 
we  are  making  impressions  upon  their 
young  minds  that  will  be  lasting,  and 
those  impressions  should  be  of  the  very 
purest  and  chastest  kind.  I  hope,  there- 


64 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  (jNION. 


fore,  that  the  teachers  will  feel,  when 
they  have  their  classes  before  them,  that 
they  are  to  carry  convictions  to  the 
hearts  of  their  listeners,  that  they  will 
remember  that  it  is  an  important  part 
of  our  teaching  to  instruct  the  children 
how  to  feel  as  well  as  how  to  think, 
for  both  are  necessary  in  a  complete  life. 
Then  again  the  Sabbath  school  teacher 
should  be  familiar  with  the  history  of 
the  Church. If  the  Sabbath  school  teacher 
has  had  experience  as  a  missionary  he 
will  find  striking  comparisons  between 
the  sayings  of  the  ancient  Apostles  and 
Prophets  and  the  Apostles  and  Prophets 
of  the  present  time.  The  missionary 
will  find  that  the  conditions  of  life 
amonj  ancient  Israel  were  very  simi- 
lar to  the  conditions  of  life  among 
us.  He  will  find  many  striking 
peculiarities  in  the  system  of  worship 
of  the  apostolic  age  that  are  also 
characteristic  of  our  own  system  of 
worship  at  the  present  time.  In  other 
words,  the  Sabbath  school  teacher 
should  be  familiar  with  our  own  his- 
tory, with  the  history  of  the  Church,  its 
organization,  the  labors  of  the  Elders 
abroad,  and  so  on,  that  in  bringing  up 
these  lesons  either  from  the  Old  or 
New  Testament  he  can  point  constantly 
to  the  parallel  existing  between  ancient 
and  modern  Israel,  and  in  this  way  he 
will  have  constant  illustrations  that 
will  enable  the  scholars  to  understand 
how  we  are  like  ancient  Israel,  for  if 
one  thing  has  impressed  the  Elder  in 
his  labors  it  is  the  great  similarity  that 
exists  between  us  and  ancient  Israel, 
the  similarity  of  organization,  teach- 
ings, etc.  The  student  should  under- 
stand that  if  persecution  overtook  us  it 
also  overtook  them;  that  if  we  were 
unpopular,  they  were  unpopular;  that  if 
they  had  Prophets  and  Apostles,  we 
have  them  likewise.  The  children 
should  understand  that  if  they  believed 
in  continuous  revelation,  we  believe  in 
continuous  revelation,  and  in  this  man- 
ner bring  constantly  to  their  attention 
the  similarity  that  exists  between  them 
and  us,  between  our  methods  and  theirs, 
our  lives  and  theirs,  our  missionary 
work  and  theirs.  This  similarity  may 
also  be  shown  forth  in  teaching  them 
geography.  The  location  of  ancient 
Israel  was  among  the  mountain  tops,  as 
is  the  case  with  us;  their  lakes  resem- 
ble our  lakes;  their  lake  Mermom  our 


Sevier  Lake,  their  Galilee  our  Utah 
Lake,  their  Dead  Sea  our  Salt  Lake, 
their  River  Jordan  our  River  Jordan. 
The  impressions  and  ideas  that  they 
imbibed  and  that  grew  up  in  them  on 
account  of  their  homes  and  surround- 
ings are  peculiar  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints  today.  All  these  things  may  be 
shown,  and  the  constant  comparisons 
that  may  be  made  in  teaching  these 
lessons  to  the  Sabbath  school  children 
may  reveal  and  will  reveal  to  the  minds 
of  the  children  the  great  similarity  be- 
tween us,  and  these  evidences  will 
actually  carry  with  them  a  conviction 
of  the  truth  of  our  religion,  and  they 
will  be  more  firmly  convinced  of  its 
truthfulness  than  ever  before.  I  hold, 
then,  that  these  two  means  may,  and 
ought  to  be,  adopted  everywhere  in 
promulgating  our  doctrines  and  faith 
among  the  children,  whatever  the  sub- 
jects may  be  in  the  Sabbath  school.  We 
are  teaching  the  Old  and  New  Testa- 
ments as  well  as  our  Church  works,  and 
it  is  as  necessary,  therefore,  that  these 
books — the  Old  and  New  Testaments — 
should  be  as  valuable  in  establishing 
the  truth  and  the  evidences  of  that  we 
believe,,  as  those  books  known  to  us 
as  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  the 
Book  of  Mormon. 

I  take  it  that  the  purpose  or  aim  in 
asking  me  to  speak  upon  this  subject 
tonight  was  to  call  your  attention  to 
the  disposition,  on  the  part  of  some  of 
the  tea,chers  to  make  our  exercises  in 
the  Sunday  school  argumentative  rath- 
er than  to  keep  them  in  the  line  of  our 
faith,  that  we  shall  have  a  distinct  pur- 
pose in  view  in  the  education  of  our 
children  in  the. Sunday  school,  and  that 
purpose  is  to  make  every  one  of  our 
Sunday  school  children  firm  in  the  faith 
of  our  fathers  and  faithful  and  lasting 
Saints.    God  bles's  you.  Amen. 

Miss  Judith  Anderson  sang  in  good 
style,  a  contralto  solo  entitled,  "The 
Children's  Friend,''  which  was  much  ap- 
preciated, showing  a  well  trained  and 
beautiful  voice. 

Elder  John  M.  Mills  read  the  program 
of  the  exercises  of  the  annual  Sunday 
school  Stake  conferences  of  1900. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  SUMMERHAYS. 

If  you  remember,  one  year  ago  last 
November,  we  had  a  Sunday  school  con. 
vention  which  lasted  two  days.  The 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


65 


general  superintendency  of  the  Sunday- 
School  Union  board  feel  that  it  would 
be  good  policy  to  hold  another  conven- 
tion next  fall  similar  to  the  one  held 
last  November,  a  year  ago.  The  reason 
we  mention  it  tonight  is  because  there 
is  considerable  detail  work  connected 
with  it,  and  if  we  hold  a  convention  we 
must  get  to  work  immediately.  We  de- 
sire to  ascertain  the  feelings  of  this 
meeting  with  regard  to  holding  such  a 
convention  next  fall.  All  in  favor  of 
holding  another  Sunday  school  conven- 
tion some  time  next  fall  similar  to  the 
one  last  held  will  please  make  it  mani- 
fest by  raising  their  right  hand. 

The  vote  was  unanimous. 

We  wish  to  announce  to  the  Stake  and 
ward  superintendents  that  we  are  still 
lacking  the  histories  of  some  of  the 
Stake  Sunday  school  organizations,  as 
well  as  those  of  some  of  the  wards.  If 
you  remember,  at  the  close  of  our  fifty 
years  last  December  it  was  proposed 
that  we  get  up  a  history  of  our  Sunday 
school  movement,  to  cover  that  period. 
We  have  been  working  on  this  book, 
and  it  is  now  being  delayed,  waiting 
the  histories  of  the  Stake  and  ward  or- 
ganizations that  have  not  yet  been  sent 
in.  We  trust  the  lacking  information 
will  be  forwarded  immediately,  that  the 
work  may  not  be  delayed. 

ELDER  THOMAS  C.  GRIGGS. 

Since  coming  to  this  meeting  I  have 
been  requested  to  draw  the  attention  of 
this  conference  to  an  item  that  per- 
tains to  our  growth  and  interests. 

It  must  be  realized  that,  in  the  exist- 
ence, approximately,  of  the  Sunday 
School  Union  of  twenty-five  years,  from 
an  enrollment  of  30,000  it  has  increased 
to  the  number  of  120,000,  over  a  four- 
fold increase  in  twenty-five  years.  Our 
labors  have  been  wonderfully  blessed, 
and  I  trust  that  this  growth  will  con- 
tinue, so  that  at  the  end  of  the  next 
twenty-five  years  we  may  be  able  to 
show  another  four-fold  growth,  bring- 
ing it  up  to  nearly  half  a  million. 

The  attention  of  the  Union  is  drawn 
to  the  desirability  of  establishing 
branch  Sunday  schools.  The  rule  of 
the  Union  Board  is  embodied  in  the  fol- 
lowing: "Urge  the  desirability  of  es- 
tablishing branch  Sunday  schools  in 
wards  where  there  is  need  of  it;  where, 


for  instance,  the  children  have  to  come 
long  distances,  or  the  school  is  over- 
crowded. The  Union  Board  favors, 
where  the  distance  is  great  between  the 
different  parts  of  the  ward,  where  two 
or  more  Sunday  schools  are  established 
in  the  ward,  that  each  be  fully  organ- 
ized with  a  separate  superintendency." 
I  will  say  but  a  few  words  with  regard 
to  this  matter;  many  might  be  said. 
There  are  conditions  existing  in  places, 
we  find,  where,  through  growth,  the 
buildings  have  become  so  crowded  that 
there  is  not  room  for  more.  Where 
these  conditions  exist  it  would  be  well 
for  the  superintendency  to  look  abroad 
to  provide  means  for  establishing 
branch  Sunday  schools.  This,  of  course, 
should  be  done  with  the  consent  and 
approval  of  the  Bishop  of  the  ward. 
Where  children  have  to  come  a  long 
distance  also  branch  Sunday  schools 
could  be  established  with  profit,  in  or- 
der to  give  them  the  advantages  of  our 
Sunday  school  teaching  and  training. 
It  is  not  necessary  in  all  cases  that 
public  halls  or  buildings  should  be 
provided.  My  experience  has  been 
that  many  profitable  branch  schools 
have  been  established,  at  the  beginning, 
in  private  houses,  where  one  or  two 
rooms  had  been  opened  by  some  good 
brother  or  sister  and  the  children  of 
the  vicinity  have  been  gathered  in,  and 
in  such  instances,  so  far  as  I  have  ex- 
perienced, those  branch  Sunday  schools 
have  grown  wonderfully.  There  is  this 
pleasing  feature  also  connected  with 
the  branch  Sunday  school,  as  it  has 
been  established,  and  that  is 
that  it  is  largely  a  missionary 
factor;  for  not  only  do  those  that  are 
active  in  the  Church  become  members 
of  these  schools,  but  the  facilities  being 
placed  within  the  reach  of  those  that 
have  become  somewhat  indifferent  and 
who  have  not  attended  fully  to  their 
meetings  and  duties,  their  feelings  and 
interests  become  aroused  and  they  will 
send  their  children  to  this  new  school, 
and  in  this  manner  a  good  work  is  ac- 
complished. Nor  should  we  rest  with 
this.  There  are  the  children  of  our 
friends,  all  brothers  and  sisters  in  the 
human  family,  to  whom  we  should  ex- 
tend the  advantages  and  privileges  of 
the  Gospel,  for  these  principles  are  as 
valuable  to  them  as  they  are  to  us.  The 


66 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


Gospel  word  has  been  increased  in  the 
mission  field  by  establishing  Sunday 
schools;  why  should  this  be  done  only 
abroad  when  we  have  many  opportuni- 
ties at  home?  It  may,  perhaps,  become 
necessary,  where  deemed  advisable,  in 
the  establishment  of  these  branch 
schools,  that  the  main  school  render 
them  their  support  and  aid.  This  as- 
sistance should  be  freely  given  by  send- 
ing brethren  and  sisters,  experienced 
if  possible,  to  assist  in  the  teaching  and 
also  by  sending  music  books,  class  reg- 
isters, hymn  books,  etc.,  that  they  may 
have  material  to  work  with.  We  trust 
that  the  superintendents  will  be  broad- 
minded  in  this  matter  and  not  become 
circumscribed  in  their  feelings  and  ef- 
forts or  think  that  their  work  should  be 
confined  to  their  own  schools  only. 

This,  brethren  and  sisters,  Stake  and 
ward  superintendents,  is  but  the  skele- 
ton of  the  idea  in  regard  to  this  matter. 
I  am  satisfied  that  if  we  were  to  enter 
into  the  field  in  the  Spirit  of  the  Gospel 
as  we  should  do,  the  skeleton  army, 
mentioned  by  the  Prophet  Ezekiel,  will 
stand  upon  its  feet  and  be  clothed  with 
sinew  and  flesh  and  have  a  body  pleas- 
ing to  look  upon. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  in  these  labors 
and  in  our  efforts  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  REYNOLDS. 

Brother  Mills,  a  few  minutes  ago,  read 
to  you  the  program  of  the  forthcoming 
^annual  Stake  Sunday  school  conference. 
I  now  wish  to  read  to  you  the  dates  on 
-which  these  conferences  will  be  held. 

April  28th  and  29th— St  George. 
May  6th  and  7th — Parowan. 
May  12th  and  13th— Malad. 
May  19th  and  20th— Juab— Utah. 
May  26th  and  27th— Jordan. 
June  2nd  and  3rd— Wasatch — Granite. 
June  9th  and  10th — Cache. 
June  16th  and  17th— Oneida— Millard. 
June  23rd  and  24th  — Bear  Lake — San- 
pete. 

June  30th  and  July  1st — Star  Valley. 
July     7th     and   8th— Panguitch  and 
Woodruff. 
July  14th  and  15th — Kanab — Wayne. 
July  21st  and  22nd — Morgan — Sevier. 
July  28th  and  29th— Boxelder— Cassia. 
August  4th  and  5th — Beaver. 


August  11th  and  12th— Davis — Bing- 
ham. 

August  18th  and  19th— Uintah— Fre- 
mont. 

August  25th  and  26th— Emery— Alber- 
ta. 

September  1st  and  2nd — Tooele. 
September  8th  and  9th — Summit. 
September  15th  and  16th — Weber. 
September  22nd  and  23rd — Bannock. 
September  29th  and  30th— Pocatello. 
Elder  Reynolds,  continuing,  said: 
There  are  one  or  two  items  to  which  I 
desire  to  call  your  attention.    One  is 
with  regard  to  the  Leaflets.    Some  of 
the  superintendents  think  that,  because 
there  is  a  date  upon  each,  they  should 
only  be  used  on  that  date.    This  is  a 
mistake.    They  can  be  used  at  any  and 
at  all  tinies  when  desirable.    We  think 
that  the  length  of  the  Leaflets  now  be- 
ing published,  as  well    as  their  great 
importance,  is  such  that  it  will  take  at 
least  two  Sundays  to  consider  each  one 
properly,  that  no  teacher  should  at- 
tempt to  go  over  all  the  matter  con- 
tained in  any  one  of  these  Leaflets  in 
one  single  Sunday.    We  have  already 
published       twelve       numbers  this 
year,     but     no     more    will    be  pub- 
lished this  month,    to  give   those  that 
are  behind  a  chance  to  catch  up.  We 
shall  again  begin  distributing  them  to 
the  schools  for  the  first  of  May. 

The  general  board  of  the  Deseret  Sun- 
day School  Union  issued,  some  time  ago, 
another  Bible  chart,  connected  with  the 
life  of  our  Redeemer,  known  to  us  as 
number  Ave,  the  superintendents  and 
teachers  have  apparently  not  under- 
stood this,  as  our  sales  have  been  very 
small.  A  copy  of  this  chart  hangs  on 
either  side  of  the  stand,  giving  a  sample 
of  the  pictures  contained  therein.  We 
wish  to  call  the  attention  of  the  super- 
intendents to  the  fact  that  we  have  a 
large  number  on  hand  at  the  Sunday 
School  Union  office. 

The  Sunday  School  Union  has  also 
just  published  a  chronological  chart  of 
Nephite  and  Lamanite  history,  which 
they  propose  to  give  free  to  every  Sun- 
day school  which  has  an  enrollment  of 
more  than  seventy-five  members.  We 
have  restricted  it  to  this  number  for 
the  reason  that  we  thought  a  small 
Sunday  school  with  less  than  seventv- 
five  members  would  probably  not  have 


DESERE  T  SUNDA  Y  SCHOOL  UNION. 


(» 


a  Book  of  Mormon  class  large  enough  they  have  now,  after  considerable  time, 

to  use  this  chart  profitably.   This  chart  completed  their  labors.    The  picture  is 

•comprises  the  history  of  the  Book  of  ready  and  we  will  be  pleased  to  pre- 

Mormon  from  the  time  that  Lehi  and  sent  a  copy  of  the  same  to  the  Stake 

his  colony  left  Jerusalem,  600  years  be-  superintendents,  if  they  will  call  at  the 

fore  Christ,  to  the  end  of  Moroni's  rec-  office  of  the  Union,  No.  408  Templeton 

ord.  It  likewise  contains  a  tabular  building,  tomorrow,  or  any  time  after, 
statement  of  contemporaneous  events 

that  took  place  on  the  eastern  conti-  GENERAL  SUPERINTENDENT  GEO. 
nent;  also  the  time  during  which  each  Q-  CANNON. 


About  a  year  ago  a  commit'  se    was  that  they  require.    I  pray  God  to  bless 

appointed1  to  secure  the  photographs  of  us  in  our  labors  and  to  give  every  one 

the    Stake  spuerintendents  of  Sunday  the  spirit  of  this  mission  and  labor, 

schools  of  all  the  Stakes  of  Zion,  as  The  choir  then  sang,  "God  be  merci- 

well  as  those  of  the  members  of    the  ful  unto  us  and  bless  us." 

Union  Board  and  the  general  officers  of  Benediction  by  Elder  Reed  Smoot. 

the  Union.    These  photographs  were  to  HORACE  S.  ENSIGN, 

be    grouped    together    and  a    picture  General  Secretary, 

made  containing  all  of  these.  A  commit-  LEO  HUNSAKER, 

-J:ee  was  appointed,   as  I  stated,   and  Reporter. 


Nephite  historian  held  the  records  and 
wrote  that  people's  history.  It  also 
contains  a  statement  of  the  years  of 
the  reigns  of  the  Judges,  as  well  as 
other  information  which  will  aid  our 
students  in  the  understanding  of  Book 
of  Mormon  history  and  chronology.  We 
shall  also  send  a  copy  to  each  Stake 
superintendent,  and  they  can  now  be 
obtained  at  the  office  of  the  Deseret 
Sunday  School  Union.  Any  persons 
wishing  to  purchase  a  copy  can  do  so. 
The  price,  mounted  like  the  one  I 
Tiave  in  my  hand,  backed  with 
linen  and  mounted  on  rollers,  is  one 
dollar.  We  expect  soon  to  have  a  large 
number  of  copies  on  hand  in  paper, 
which  can  be  folded  up  and  placed  be- 
tween the  leaves  of  a  book,  the  price  of 
which  will  be  only  twenty-five  cents. 


Our  time  has  expired.  We  have  been 
here  now  nearly  two  hours.  I  am  down 
for  some  closing  remarks.  I  will  not 
trespass  upon  your  time  but  a  minute, 
but  I  want  to  draw  your  attention  to 
the  remarks  made  by  Dr.  J.  M.  Tanner. 
I  think  there  should  be  more  attention 
paid  to  the  character  of  the  instruction 
given  in  our  Sunday  schools,  and  every 
effort  should  be  made  to  give  the  chil- 
dren and  the  youth  a  knowledge  of  our 
principles.  I  think  we  cannot  devote 
our  time  and  attention  in  any  better 
direction  than  in  taking  this  subject  to 
heart  and  carrying  it  out  as  well  as 
we  can  in  our  schools.  We  feel  proud, 
I  think,  of  our  progress,  but  I  can  see 
a  large  field  stretching  out  before  us 
yet  to  be  occupied.  The  children  and 
young  people  are  not  receiving,  with 
all  our  efforts,  the  thorough  training 


ELDER  GEORGE  D.  PYPER. 


8,000  Copies  Sold  Since  April  1, 1899. 


rticks  of  Taitb 


ft  llCW  CbUrCl)  UIOrR,  498  pages,  by  Dr.  James 
E.  Talmage,  written  by  appointment  from 
the  First  Presidency.  Designed  as  a  text 
book  for  use  in  Church  Schools,  Sunday 
Schools,  Improvement  Associations,  quor- 
ums, and  for  individual  study.  Elegantly 
bound  in  all  styles. 

PRICES: 


Cloth  .  .  . 

  Leather  .  .  . 

  Leather  Gilt  . 

Morocco  Gilt 

FOR  SALE  BY 


sr. 00 

1.50 

2.00 

2.50 


^THE  DESERET  NEWS. 

Special  Terms  to  Dealers,  Agents,  Classes  and  Quorums. 


TlK  BOOH  Of  IttOrmon,"  Two  lectures  from  the 
above  work,  compiled  in  pamphlet  form  by 
Dr.  Talmage  for  convenience  in  study. 
Price  10  cents. 


(Wed  Upon 

A    bright,  interesting    story,    illustrating  the- 
principle  of  pre-existence  as  believed  by  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.    Written  by  the  talented  home  author, 
Nephi  Anderson. 

Read  it  Yourself  and  Send  a  Copy  to  Your  Friends. 


Price,  Twenty-five  Cents. 


THE  DESERET  NEWS,  SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH. 


TO  MISSIONARIES: 


To  aid  Missionaries  in 
their  fields  of  labor  the 

Semi-Weekly 
News 

Will  be  sent  to  subscrib- 
ers sent  in  by  them  at 

One  Dollar  a  Year. 


This  offer  applies  only  to  sub- 
scribers in  the  missionary  field. 


