ONE  HUNDRED 


THIRTY-THIRD 
ANNUAL 


CONFERENCE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER  DAY  SAINTS 

HELD  IN  THE  TABERNACLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY.  UTAH 

APRIL  5,  6,  7,  1963 

WITH  REPORT  OF  DISCOURSES 


Published  by 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter  day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City.  Utah 


The  One  Hundred  Thirty-third  Annual 
Conference  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  one  Hundred  Thirty-Third  An- 
nual Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held  in 
the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  April  5, 
6,  and  7,  1963. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  Confer- 
ence were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00 
p.m.  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  and 
the  General  Priesthood  meeting  was 
held  in  the  Tabernacle  Saturday  even- 
ing, April  6,  at  7:00  p.m. 

All  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  broadcast  to  overflow  gatherings 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  on  Temple  Square, 
over  a  loudspeaking  system  and  by  tele- 
vision. Additional  thousands  listened  to 
the  services  on  the  Tabernacle  Grounds 
by  means  of  amplifying  equipment. 

The  proceedings  were  broadcast  and 
telecast  over  Station  KSL  and  KSL-TV 
at  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  and  by  arrange- 
ment through  KSL,  stations  throughout 
the  United  States,  and  in  Canada, 
Hawaii,  and  Australia  made  available 
portions  of  the  Conference  sessions  to 
their  listening  or  viewing  audiences. 
Conference  sessions  were  released  over 
International  Short-wave  station  WRUL 
near  Boston,  Mass.  by  way  of  its  New 
York  studios.  By  this  means  the  Con- 
ference proceedings  were  carried  in 
English  to  all  parts  of  Europe,  to  Africa, 
Central  and  South  America,  and  parts 
of  Asia.  A  Spanish  translation  was  car- 
ried by  short  wave  to  Central  and  South 
America,  Mexico  and  the  Caribbean  area. 

The  Saturday  morning  session,  in  ad- 
dition to  being  broadcast  direct,  was 
video-taped  for  release  Sunday  morning 
over  1 19  television  stations  in  the  United 
States,  Canada,  Hawaii  and  Australia. 

The  General  Priesthood  meeting  was 
relayed  by  closed  circuit  to  members  of 
the  Priesthood  gathered  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  and  in  359  other  Church  buildings 
from  coast  to  coast,  and  in  Alaska  and 
Canada. 

The  Sunday  morning  services  were 


carried  live  by  56  television  and  radio 
stations  from  Denver  to  the  West  Coast 
from  the  Tabernacle  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

President  David  O.  McKay  was  pres- 
ent and  presided  at  each  of  the  sessions 
and  conducted  the  services  of  each 
meeting. 

A  full  report  of  the  Sunday  morning 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast 
is  included  in  this  record,  as  is  also  a 
full  account  of  Columbia  Broadcasting 
System's  Church  of  the  Air  program. 
(See  pages  133  to  137.) 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  was  Clerk  of 
the  Conference. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

The  First  Presidency:  David  O.  Mc- 
Kay, Henry  D.  Moyle,  Hugh  B.  Brown. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Harold  B.  Lee, 
Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Ben- 
son, *,  Delbert  L.  Stapley,  Marion  G. 
Romney,  LeGrand  Richards,  Richard  L. 
Evans,  Howard  W.  Hunter,  Gordon  B. 
Hinckley,  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G. 
Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Alma  Sonne,  EIRay  L.  Christiansen, 
John  Longden,  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Henry 
D.  Taylor,  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr., 
Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Franklin  D.  Richards, 
**,  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  Boyd  K.  Packer, 
Bernard  P.  Brockbank. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy: 

***,  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Seymour  Dil- 

worth  Young,  Milton  R.  Hunter,  ****, 
*****  ****** 


*Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  presiding  over  the  West 
European  Mission. 

**  Elder  Theodore  M.  Burton  presiding  over  the 
European  Mission. 

** 'Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young  absent  because  of 
illness. 

****EIder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  presiding  over  the 
Southern  Australian  Mission. 

*****Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks  presiding  over  the 
British  Mission. 

***** 'Elder  A.  Theodore  Tuttle  presiding  over  the 
South  American  Mission. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Presiding  Bishopric:  John  H.  Vanden- 
berg,  Robert  L.  Simpson,  Victor  L. 
Brown. 

General  Officers  and  Other 
Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Jo- 
seph Fielding  Smith,  and  assistants:  A. 
William  Lund  and  Preston  Nibley. 

Members  of  the  General  Welfare 
Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 


Members  of  the  Church  Board  of 
Education  and  Chancellor  of  the  Church 
School  System,  Directors  and  Associate 
Directors  of  Institutes,  and  Seminary 
Instructors. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Coun- 
selors, Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs, 
and  quorum  presidencies  and  mem- 
bers of  the  Melchizedek  and  Aaronic 
Priesthoods. 

Auxiliary  Officers,  General,  Stake,  and 
Ward,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  opening  session  of  the  One  Hun- 
dred Thirty-Third  Annual  Conference 
of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle 
on  Temple  Sauare  in  Salt  Lake  City 
Friday  morning,  April  5,  1963  at  10:00 
a.m.,  wth  President  David  O.  McKay 
presiding  and  conducting  the  services. 

The  Logan  LDS  Institute  of  Religion 
Choir,  Professor  James  L.  Bradley,  Con- 
ductor, furnished  the  music  for  this  ses- 
sion. Frank  W.  Asper,  Tabernacle 
Organist,  was  at  the  organ. 

President  McKay  made  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  opening  session  of  the 
One  Hundred  Thirty-Third  Annual 
Conference  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are 
convened  in  the  historic  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

Yesterday  and  Wednesday  this  build- 
ing was  filled  with  the  officers  and 
teachers  of  the  Primary  Association,  as- 
sembled in  their  annual  general  con- 
ference. We  wish  to  commend  and  to 
congratulate  the  General  Primary  Presi- 
dency and  members  of  the  General 
Board  for  their  loyalty  and  commend- 
able service  which  they  render  to  the 
children  of  the  Church. 

Excused  from  this  general  meeting  are 
the  following  General  Authorities  of 
the  Church:  Elder  Theodore  M.  Burton, 
Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  presiding  over 
the  European  Mission,  Elder  Bruce  R. 
McConkie  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy,  who  is  presiding  over  the 
Southern  Australian  Mission;  Elder 
Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  presiding  over  the  West  Euro- 
pean Mission;  Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks 
of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  presid- 
ing over  the  British  Mission;  Elder  A. 
Theodore  Tuttle  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy,  who  is  presiding  over  the  South 
American    Mission;    and   Elder  Levi 


Edgar  Young,  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy,  who  is  ill. 

You  will  be  interested  in  knowing 
that  by  radio  and  television  broadcast- 
ing the  proceedings  of  this  conference 
will  reach  the  largest  world-wide  audi- 
ence in  the  history  of  the  Church.  As 
it  has  since  1928,  KSL  Radio,  and  now 
television,  will  broadcast  all  sessions  of 
the  conference,  and  will  be  joined  by 
many  of  the  other  stations  in  carrying 
all  or  parts  of  the  conference.  Radio 
broadcast  sessions  of  this  conference  will 
be  carried  by  27  stations,  and  157  tele- 
vision stations  coast  to  coast  in  the  United 
States;  and  for  the  first  time  television 
stations  in  Canada,  in  Hawaii,  and  in 
Australia  will  be  releasing  portions  of 
the  conference  sessions.  For  the  third 
consecutive  time  conference  sessions 
will  be  released  over  international  short- 
wave Station  WRUL  with  its  five  short- 
wave transmitters  near  Boston,  Massa- 
chusetts, by  way  of  its  New  York 
studios.  Three  short-wave  channels 
will  carry  the  conference  to  all  parts  of 
Europe,  to  Africa,  Central  and  South 
America,  and  parts  of  Asia  in  English, 
while  two  channels  will  carry  a  Spanish 
translation  by  short  wave  to  Central  and 
South  America,  Mexico,  and  the  Carib- 
bean area. 

It  is  fitting  for  us,  as  we  assemble  this 
morning,  to  express  gratitude  to  an 
Overruling  Providence  for  having  in- 
spired inventors  and  scientists  throughout 
passing  time,  and  men  and  women  who 
have  applied  these  inventions  and  dis- 
coveries for  the  guidance,  convenience 
and  the  blessing  of  future  generations. 
It  is  well  for  us  today  to  express  appre- 
ciation of  the  service  of  such  men. 

Carlyle,  I  think,  in  one  of  his  essays 
said:  "In  this  world,  there  is  one  god- 
like virtue,  the  essence  of  all  that  ever 
was  or  ever  will  be  godlike  in  this 
world — the  veneration  done  to  human 
worth  by  the  hearts  of  men." 

We  should  like  to  so  express  for  you 
appreciation  of  what  men  are  doing  to- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


4 

Friday,  April  5 

day  to  make  it  possible  for  the  repre- 
sentatives in  Australia,  parts  of  Europe, 
and  South  Seas  to  be  present  this  morn- 
ing. I  am  going  to  name  the  Board  mem- 
bers of  the  International  Educational 
Broadcasting  Corporation,  who  are  in 
charge  of  short-wave  Station  WRUL, 
who  are  making  it  possible  for  people 
in  Europe,  South  America,  Australia, 
and  other  parts  of  the  world  to  hear 
these  sessions  "live"  from  Salt  Lake 
City:  Brother  James  B.  Conkling, 
President  of  WRUL,  the  short-wave 
station;  Howard  J.  Stoddard,  Chairman 
of  WRUL  Board;  Isaac  M.  Stewart, 
Vice-President;  and  other  WRUL  Board 
members — David  M.  Kennedy  of  Chi- 
cago, J.  Willard  Marriott  of  Washington, 
D.C.,  Lee  S.  Bickmore,  Saul  Haas, 
Frank  G.  Wangeman,  Robert  W. 
Barker,  and  Arch  L.  Madsen,  our  own 
KSL  man.  For  their  cooperation  and 
general  assistance  in  helping  establish 
Church  broadcasts  by  way  of  Station 
WRUL  we  express  appreciation. 

This  international  broadcasting  is  just 
the  beginning  of  a  world-wide  effort. 
Through  the  cooperation  of  our  loyal 
stake  presidents,  mission  presidents, 
bishops,  branch  presidents,  missionaries 
and  other  church  members,  many  people 
in  distant  lands  are  increasingly  able 
to  participate  with  us. 

Last  October  we  re-broadcast  over 
KSL  the  sessions  of  conference  from  one 
o'clock  to  five  o'clock  in  the  morning 
following  each  conference  day.  From 
these  re-broadcasts  we  have  received 
nearly  one  thousand  pieces  of  mail  from 
listeners  throughout  the  United  States, 
including  Hawaii  and  Alaska;  in  Can- 
ada and  Mexico;  and  from  27  foreign 
countries,  including  the  Islands  of  the 
Pacific,  and  from  three  ships  at  sea  in 
the  Pacific.  The  response  was  so  grati- 
fying that  all  sessions  of  this  confer- 
ence will  be  re-broadcast  by  KSL  Radio 
to  all  these  countries  from  one  o'clock 
to  five  o'clock  in  the  morning  following 
each  conference  day,  thus  permitting  us 
to  bring  the  proceedings  of  this  confer- 
ence into  the  homes  of  tens  of  thou- 
sands who  otherwise  would  be  unable  to 
hear  the  program. 

The  General  Priesthood  Meeting  Sat- 
urday evening,  originating  in  the  Salt 


First  Day 

Lake  Tabernacle,  will  be  carried  by  di- 
rect closed  circuit  wire  to  more  than 
359  separate  gatherings  of  men  and  boys 
in  all  parts  of  the  United  States,  in- 
cluding Alaska,  and  in  Canada. 

We  have  assembled  here  in  the  Taber- 
nacle a  truly  great  international  con- 
gregation. Representatives  of  the  Church 
have  come  from  the  far-flung  stakes 
and  wards  of  the  Church,  which  include 
the  stakes,  (stakes,  mind  you,)  in  Eng- 
land, Europe,  Australia,  New  Zealand, 
Samoa,  Mexico,  Canada,  and  every- 
where in  the  United  States,  including 
stakes  in  Hawaii  and  Alaska.  To  all — 
to  those  gathered  here  in  the  Tabernacle, 
to  the  overflow  gatherings  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall,  and  to  the  vast  radio  and 
television  audience — in  behalf  of  the 
First  Presidency,  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  the  other  General  Authorities,  I 
extend  a  cordial  welcome. 

Any  important  messages  that  come  to 
us  for  persons  attending  this  conference 
will  be  announced  at  the  dismissal  of 
the  meetings  over  the  public  address 
system  on  the  grounds. 

These  dozens  of  beautiful  daffodils 
arranged  on  the  rostrum  have  come  to 
us  by  airplane  from  the  Tacoma  Stake 
through  the  courtesy  of  the  Puyallup 
Valley  Daffodil  Festival,  Incorporated, 
of  Tacoma,  Washington.  The  calla  lilies 
have  also  come  by  air  from  the  High 
Priests'  Quorum  of  the  Oakland-Berke- 
ley Stake.  Thank  you,  members  and 
friends!  We  deeply  appreciate  this 
thoughtful  service,  and  are  not  unmind- 
ful of  the  effort  that  has  been  put  forth 
by  the  members  in  picking  and  ar- 
ranging these  lovely  flowers  for  ship- 
ment by  air. 

We  are  pleased  to  announce  that  the 
Logan  Institute  of  Religion  Choir,  with 
Professor  James  L.  Bradley  as  their  con- 
ductor, will  furnish  the  music  for  this 
session  today.  Brother  Frank  W.  Asper 
will  be  at  the  organ.  We  welcome  you 
young  people  and  are  glad  to  have  you 
join  with  us  in  worship  this  morning. 

We  have  received  the  following  tele- 
gram from  President  and  Sister  Mark 
E.  Petersen  of  the  West  European  Mis- 
sion: "We  join  with  Saints  and  leaders 
of  West  European  Missions  and  Stakes 
in  sending  greetings  at  conference  time, 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


5 


praying  God's  choicest  blessings  on  you 
all  and  particularly  that  you,  yourself, 
may  be  magnified  in  your  important 
calling." 

Telegram  from  President  and  Sister 
Fred  W.  Schwendiman  of  the  New 
Zealand  South  Mission:  "Missionaries 
and  members  of  the  New  Zealand  South 
Mission  send  greetings  and  love  to  the 
Church  Authorities,  members,  and  our 
representatives  assembled  in  the  Gen- 
eral Conference  of  the  Church." 

We  are  especially  happy  to  welcome, 
and  are  grateful  for  the  presence  of  our 
Stake  Presidencies,  Temple  Presidents, 
Bishoprics,  High  Councilmen,  general 
auxiliary  officers,  and  other  general 
officers  of  the  Church,  many  of  whom 
have  traveled  long  distances  to  be  in 
attendance  at  this  conference. 

We  note  men,  prominent  men,  about 
us  who  show  their  interest  by  their 
presence  this  morning:  Senator  Wallace 
F.  Bennett,  United  States  Senator; 
Senator  Frank  E.  Moss,  United  States 
Senator;  Laurence  J.  Burton,  United 
States  Congressman;  George  D.  Clyde, 
our  Governor  of  Utah;  Education, 
Ernest  L.  Wilkinson,  President  of  Brig- 
ham  Young  University;  John  L.  Clarke, 
President  of  Ricks  College;  William  P. 
Miller,  President  of  Weber  College;  M. 
Lynn  Bennion,  Superintendent  of  Salt 
Lak  City  Public  Schools;  and  possibly 
others  whom  Brother  Kimball  could  not 
see,  and  I  cannot  see  you  from  the  ros- 
trum here,  but  you  are  welcome  and  we 
are  glad  to  have  you  with  us. 

The  singing  for  this  morning's  ses- 


sion, as  already  announced,  will  be 
furnished  by  the  Logan  Institute  of  Re- 
ligion Choir.  They  will  now  sing  "Still, 
Still  With  Thee,"  conducted  by  Brother 
James  L.  Bradley.  The  invocation  will 
be  offered  by  Elder  Douglas  H.  Driggs, 
formerly  President  of  the  Northwestern 
States  Mission. 


The  Logan  LDS  Institute  of  Religion 
Choir  sang  the  selection,  "Still,  Still 
With  Thee." 

Elder  Douglas  H.  Driggs,  formerly 
President  of  the  Northwestern  States 
Mission,  offered  the  invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  just  offered  by 
Elder  Douglas  H.  Driggs,  formerly 
President  of  the  Northwestern  States 
Mission. 

The  Logan  Institute  of  Religion  Choir 
will  now  sing  "I  Need  Thee  Every 
Hour."  After  the  singing  President 
Hugh  B.  Brown  of  the  First  Presidency 
will  speak  to  us. 


Singing  by  the  Institute  Choir,  "I 
Need  Thee  Every  Hour." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  first  speaker  this  morning  will 
be  President  Hugh  B.  Brown  of  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church.  He 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  Thorpe  B. 
Isaacson. 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


Let  us  quote  two  well-known  defini- 
tions of  religion,  one  from  the  Old 
Testament  and  one  from  the  New;  these 
might  well  sound  the  keynote  or  prel- 
ude to  this  conference.  First  from  the 
Prophet  Micah:  "He  hath  shewed  thee, 
O  man,  what  is  good;  and  what  doth 
the  Lord  require  of  thee,  but  to  do 
justly,  and  to  love  mercy,  and  to  walk 
humbly  with  thy  God?"  (Micah  6:8.) 
And  the  Apostle  James  admonishes: 
"But  be  ye  doers  of  the  word,  and  not 


hearers  only,  deceiving  your  own 
selves. 

"But  whoso  looketh  into  the  perfect 
law  of  liberty,  and  continueth  therein,  he 
being  not  a  forgetful  hearer,  but  a 
doer  of  the  work,  this  man  shall  be 
blessed  in  his  deed. 

"If  any  man  among  you  seem  to  be 
religious,  and  bridleth  not  his  tongue, 
but  deceiveth  his  own  heart,  this  man's 
religion  is  vain. 

"Pure  religion  and  undefiled  before 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


6 

Friday,  April  5 

God  and  the  Father  is  this,  To  visit  the 
fatherless  and  widows  in  their  affliction, 
and  to  keep  himself  unspotted  from  the 
world."  (James  1:22,  25-27.) 

We  pray  that  all  who  speak  during 
this  conference  may  be  inspired  by  the 
Holy  Spirit.  Especially  we  pray  that  the 
many  thousands,  seen  and  unseen,  who 
may  attend  the  various  sessions  may 
enjoy  the  same  inspiration.  The  effect 
upon  the  "hearers  of  the  word"  depends 
upon  their  being  spiritually  in  tune  and 
open-mindedly  responsive. 

As  the  relish  with  which  one  enjoys 
a  meal  depends  upon  the  appetite  he 
brings  to  the  table  more  than  upon  the 
quality  and  variety  of  food  placed  be- 
fore him,  so  the  degree  of  enjoyment 
and  assimilation  of  spiritual  refreshment 
will  depend  upon  whether  or  not  we 
"hunger  and  thirst"  as  enjoined  by  the 
Savior,  and  be  promised  the  reward  of 
satisfaction.  The  Savior  said:  "Behold, 
I  stand  at  the  door,  and  knock:  if  any 
man  hear  my  voice,  and  open  the  door, 
I  will  come  in  to  him,  and  will  sup 
with  him,  and  he  with  me."  (Rev.  3:20.) 

We  are  all  familiar  with  the  parable 
of  the  sower,  where  ".  .  .  some  seeds 
fell  by  the  way  side,  and  the  fowls  came 
and  devoured  them  up: 

"Some  fell  upon  stony  places,  where 
they  had  not  much  earth:  .  .  . 

"And  when  the  sun  was  up,  they 
were  scorched;  and  because  they  had  no 
root,  they  withered  away. 

"And  some  fell  among  thorns;  and 
the  thorns  sprung  up,  and  choked  them: 

"But  other  fell  into  good  ground, 
and  brought  forth  fruit,  .  .  ."  (Matt. 
13:4-8.) 

In  explanation  of  the  meaning  of 
the  parable,  the  Savior  emphasized  the 
responsibility  of  all  who  hear  the  word, 
and  he  expressed  concern  for  the  qual- 
ity and  depth  of  the  soil  in  which  the 
seeds  are  planted.  Mark  defines  the 
seed  as  the  word  of  God:  "When  any 
one  heareth  the  word  of  the  kingdom, 
and  understandeth  it  not,  then  cometh 
the  wicked  one,  and  catcheth  away  that 
which  was  sown  in  his  heart.  This  is 
he  which  received  seed  by  the  way  side. 

"But  he  that  received  the  seed  into 
stony  places,  the  same  is  he  that  heareth 
the  word,  and  anon  with  joy  re- 
ceiveth  it; 


First  Day 

"Yet  hath  he  not  root  in  himself, 
but  dureth  for  a  while:  for  when  tribu- 
lation or  persecution  ariseth  because  of 
the  word,  by  and  by  he  is  offended. 

"He  also  that  received  seed  among  the 
thorns  is  he  that  heareth  the  word;  and 
the  care  of  this  world,  and  the  deceit- 
fulness  of  riches,  choke  the  word,  and 
he  becometh  unfruitful. 

"But  he  that  received  seed  into  the 
good  ground  is  he  that  heareth  the 
word,  and  understandeth  it;  which  also 
beareth  fruit,  and  bringeth  forth,  some 
an  hundredfold,  some  sixty,  some 
thirty."  (Ibid.,  13:19-23.) 

This  parable  applies  to  all  to  whom 
the  seed — the  word  of  God — may 
come,  whether  they  be  lifetime  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  new  converts,  or 
investigators  seeking  truth.  Let  us  be 
united  in  our  prayers  that  the  seeds  of 
truth  which  may  be  broadcast  during 
this  conference  may  take  root  in  fertile 
soil  and  bear  fruit.  Paul  said  of  some 
to  whom  the  gospel  was  preached  in 
his  day  that  it  did  not  profit  them 
".  .  .  not  being  mixed  with  faith  in  them 
that  heard  it."  (Heb.  4:2.) 

Truth  is  challenging  and  calls  for 
action  as  is  evidenced  by  another  parable 
of  the  Savior:  "Therefore  whosoever 
heareth  these  sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth 
them,  I  will  liken  him  unto  a  wise  man, 
which  built  his  house  upon  a  rock: 

"And  the  rain  descended,  and  the 
floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and 
beat  upon  that  house;  and  it  fell  not: 
for  it  was  founded  upon  a  rock. 

"And  every  one  that  heareth  these 
sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth  them  not, 
shall  be  likened  unto  a  foolish  man, 
which  built  his  house  upon  the  sand: 

"And  the  rain  descended,  and  the 
floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and 
beat  upon  that  house;  and  it  fell:  and 
great  was  the  fall  of  it."  (Matt.  7:24-27.) 

It  should  be  noted  that  the  rain 
descended  and  the  floods  came  and 
the  winds  blew  and  beat  upon  the  house 
which  was  built  upon  the  rock  with 
the  same  force  as  that  which  destroyed 
the  other  house.  This  house  did  not 
escape  the  storm  but,  having  a  rock 
foundation,  withstood  it. 

Some  have  thought  that  upon  joining 
the  Church  and  being  faithful  all  trials 
would  end,  all  difficulties  disappear, 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


7 


and  all  temptations  cease.  We  are  re- 
minded of  the  young  bride  who,  on 
her  wedding  day,  said  to  her  mother, 
"I  am  the  happiest  girl  in  the  world.  I 
have  come  to  the  end  of  all  my 
troubles." 

And  the  wise  mother  replied,  "Yes, 
my  dear,  but  you  don't  know  which 
end." 

Both  the  storms  of  nature  and  the 
storms  of  life  are  indiscriminate.  As 
the  house  built  upon  the  rock  survived 
the  storm,  so  the  life  whose  roots  are 
firmly  planted  in  the  soil  of  faith  will 
endure  adversity  and  be  made  stronger 
by  the  struggle.  As  Douglas  Malloch 
said  in  verse: 

"Good  timber  does  not  grow  in  ease, 
The  stronger  wind,  the  tougher  trees, 
The  further  sky,  the  greater  length, 
The  more  the  storm,  the  more  the 
strength. 

"By  sun  and  cold,  by  rain  and  snow, 
In  trees  or  men,  good  timbers  grow." 

Sometimes  defeat  may  serve  as  well 
as  victory  to  shake  the  soul  and  let  the 
glory  out. 

Let  us  not  bemoan  our  lot  in  life 
or  chafe  under  the  trials,  losses,  or 
problems  which  beset  us.  Let  us  rather 
enumerate  and  express  gratitude  for 
our  many  blessings.  Some  go  through 
the  year  or  through  life  unappreciative 
of  life's  bounties  because  they  are  un- 
aware of  them.  One's  awareness  be- 
comes the  measure  of  his  aliveness.  All 
about  us  we  see  evidences  of  a  benevo- 
lent providence.  For  example,  anyone 
who  reverently  looks  into  the  starry  skies 
will  feel  to  exclaim  with  the  Psalmist: 
"The  heavens  declare  the  glory  of  God; 
and  the  firmament  sheweth  his  handy- 
work."  (Psalm  19:1.) 

As  we  become  more  aware  and  appre- 
ciative of  his  love  and  of  the  beauty 
and  wisdom  which  are  everywhere  ap- 
parent, we  thank  the  Lord  for  life  and 
for  its  bracing  trials  and  challenges,  its 
educative  disciDlines  and  rewards.  Our 
faith  in  God  is  deepened  and  sustained 
by  life's  experiences  and  by  convincing 
evidence  on  every  hand  that  our  uni- 
verse is  governed  by  law  under  a 
beneficent  and  omnipotent  Father. 


As  this  faith  and  knowledge  develops, 
one  becomes  conscious  of  his  own  weak- 
nesses and  shortcomings  and  under- 
takes to  bring  his  conduct  up  to  the  level 
of  his  ideals;  this  is  called  repentance. 

But  if  his  faith  is  not  kept  radiant 
by  good  works,  he  will  be  tempted  to 
lower  his  ideals  to  the  level  of  his 
conduct.    This  is  retrogression. 

In  these  ominous  and  threatening 
times,  we  need  physical,  intellectual, 
and  moral  courage  and  sustaining  faith. 
It  may  seem  trite  to  say  the  world  is 
imperiled  and  divided  and  that  these 
are  times  of  historic  decisions,  but  on 
all  levels  of  life,  from  individual  and 
family  to  national  and  international, 
challenging  situations  demand  attention 
and  difficult  problems  require  solution. 
We  all  face  a  common  challenge  and 
share  a  common  cause. 

The  threat  of  communism  is  sinister, 
and  its  dangers  are  imminent.  Hun- 
dreds of  millions  of  our  fellow  beings 
are  being  relentlessly  imbued  with  the 
satanic  ideology  that  the  Fatherhood 
of  God,  the  Saviorhood  of  Christ,  and 
the  brotherhood  of  man  are  stupid 
myths,  that  religion  is  nothing  but  a 
tranquilizing  opiate.  They  seek  to  de- 
prive men  of  physical,  mental,  and  spir- 
itual freedom  while  endowing  the  state 
with  monstrous  supremacy.  This  re- 
lentless indoctrination  is  but  a  con- 
tinuation of  the  war  that  began  when 
Satan's  plan  of  force  was  rejected  by 
the  Father.  We  live  in  the  most  dan- 
gerous period  of  all  history.  The  sixth 
chapter  of  Ephesians  was  never  more 
applicable  than  today:  "For  we  wrestle 
not  against  flesh  and  blood,  but  against 
principalities,  against  powers,  against 
the  rulers  of  the  darkness  of  this  world, 
against  spiritual  wickedness  in  high 
places."  (Eph.  6:12.) 

The  Church  is  the  main  bulwark 
against  communism.  The  gospel  is  the 
most  effective  rebuttal  to  their  godless 
ideologies.  It  is  a  spiritual  force  which 
can  crash  and  overcome  all  physical 
barriers.  Surely  we  must  put  on  the 
whole  armor  of  God,  consisting,  as 
Paul  said,  of  truth,  righteousness,  peace, 
faith,  with  the  helmet  of  salvation  and 
the  sword  of  the  spirit,  which  is  the 
word  of  God.  Because  of  our  faith  in  a 
living,  personal,  and  all-powerful  God, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  5 

we  do  not  fear  the  final  outcome  in  our 
fight  against  the  emissaries  of  Satan, 
though  we  must  ever  be  alert,  united, 
and  on  guard.  We  are  reassured  by 
John's  wonderful  vision  on  the  Isle 
of  Patmos: 

"And  I  saw  an  angel  come  down  from 
heaven,  having  the  key  of  the  bottom- 
less pit  and  a  great  chain  in  his  hand. 

"And  he  laid  hold  on  the  dragon, 
that  old  serpent,  which  is  the  Devil, 
and  Satan,  and  bound  him  a  thousand 
years, 

"And  cast  him  into  the  bottomless 
pit,  and  shut  him  up,  and  set  a  seal 
upon  him,  that  he  should  deceive  the 
nations  no  more,  till  the  thousand  years 
should  be  fulfilled:  and  after  that  he 
must  be  loosed  a  little  season."  (Rev. 
20:1-3.) 

Nothing  but  the  gospel  of  love,  the 
restored  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which 
we  gratefully  proclaim,  can  save  the 
world  or  the  individual  from  the  dan- 
gers that  threaten  us.  This  is  a  gospel 
of  character-building  activity;  of  in- 
vincible faith  and  the  courage  that  is 
bom  of  faith;  of  repentance,  the  door- 
way to  progress;  of  sanctification 
through  baptism  of  water  and  of  the 
Spirit,  the  doorway  to  the  celestial  king- 
dom. Let  us  take  courage  in  the 
knowledge  that  Christ,  the  Prince  of 
Peace,  is  at  the  helm.  He  has  declared 
that  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the 
sight  of  God;  so  great  that  he  gave  his 
only  Begotten  Son  that  whosoever  be- 
lieveth  on  him  should  not  perish  but 
have  everlasting  life. 

The  transcendent  love  of  God  the 
Father  has  its  counterpart  in  Christ, 
the  Son,  whose  redeeming  sacrifice, 
which  was  voluntary  and  love  inspired, 
loosed  the  bonds  of  death  and  assured 
to  all  men  the  blessings  of  the  resur- 
rection. He  declared  it  to  be  his  work 
and  his  glory  to  bring  to  pass  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man. 
The  Apostle  Paul  gives  us  an  appraisal 
of  the  enduring  quality  of  God's  love  in 
his  epistle  to  the  Romans:  "For  I  am 
persuaded,  that  neither  death,  nor  life, 
nor  angels,  nor  principalities,  nor 
powers,  nor  things  present,  nor  things 
to  come, 

"Nor  height,  nor  depth,  nor  any 
other  creature,  shall  be  able  to  separate 


First  Day 

us  from  the  love  of  God,  which  is  in 
Christ  Jesus  our  Lord."  (Rom.  8:38-39.) 

But  this  divine  love  elicits  response 
from  us,  not  only  by  declarations  of  our 
love  but  by  our  attitude  toward  our 
fellow  men.  Benjamin  Franklin  prayed, 
"Accept  my  kind  offices  to  thy  children 
as  the  only  return  in  my  power  for 
thy  continual  favors  to  me." 

John,  in  his  first  epistle,  wrote:  "If  a 
man  say,  I  love  God,  and  hateth  his 
brother,  he  is  a  liar:  for  he  that  loveth 
not  his  brother  whom  he  hath  seen, 
how  can  he  love  God  whom  he  hath 
not  seen? 

"And  this  commandment  have  we 
from  him,  That  he  who  loveth  God  love 
his  brother  also."  (1  John  4:20-21.) 

How  can  a  man  have  communion 
with  God  if  he  does  not  have  fellowship 
with  his  fellow  men? 

Jesus,  when  asked  which  was  the  great 
commandment,  replied:  "Thou  shalt 
love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy 
heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with 
all  thy  mind. 

"This  is  the  first  and  great  command- 
ment. 

"And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou 
shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as  thyself. 

"On  these  two  commandments  hang 
all  the  law  and  the  prophets."  (Matt. 
22:37-40.) 

When  on  another  occasion  the  Master 
was  asked  who  is  my  neighbor,  he 
replied  with  the  parable  of  the  good 
Samaritan,  which  teaches  the  lesson 
that  all  who  need  our  help,  all  whose 
lives  we  touch  are  our  neighbors, 
whether  they  live  across  the  street,  over 
the  fence,  across  the  continent,  or  over 
the  ocean.  Our  neighborhood  has  be- 
come world-wide. 

Abou-Ben  Adhem's  name  headed  the 
list  of  those  whom  love  of  God  had 
blessed  because  he,  apparently  more 
than  others,  loved  his  fellow  men. 

The  depth,  direction,  and  quality  of 
our  religious  life  depend  upon  our  un- 
derstanding of  the  nature,  purposes,  and 
methods  of  God  and  our  relationship 
and  responsibility  to  him.  The  scrip- 
tures are  replete  with  reassuring  prom- 
ises that  right  will  prevail  over  might, 
good  over  evil,  truth  over  error,  Christ 
over  anti-Christ.   John  the  Beloved  was 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


9 


inspired  when  he  wrote  the  rhapsody  in 
his  first  epistle: 

"Behold,  what  manner  of  love  the 
Father  hath  bestowed  upon  us,  that  we 
should  be  called  the  sons  of  God:  There- 
fore the  world  knoweth  us  not,  because 
it  knew  him  not. 

"Beloved,  now  are  we  the  sons  of 
God,  and  it  doth  not  yet  appear  what 
we  shall  be:  but  we  know  that,  when 
he  shall  appear,  we  shall  be  like  him; 
for  we  shall  see  him  as  he  is." 
(1  John  3:1-2.) 

In  a  book  titled  A  Century's  Change 
in  Religion,  quoted  by  Dr.  James  L. 
Barker,  George  Harris  tells  us:  "There 
has  been  a  change  in  our  thought  of 
God,  from  the  conception  of  sovereignty 
to  the  conception  of  Fatherhood;  speak- 
ing broadly,  it  may  be  said,  that  the 
Latin  theology  made  sovereignty  the 
central  doctrine.  The  Roman  govern- 
ment was  a  type  of  the  divine  gov- 
ernment. This  theology  stamped  the 
doctrine  of  decrees,  of  predestination 
and  reprobation,  the  mere  good  pleas- 
ures of  God  as  the  cause  of  all  events. 
The  belief  engendered  fear  and  hate 
rather  than  love  and  trust.  .  .  .  The 
center  of  doctrine  has  shifted  from 
sovereignty  to  fatherhood."  The  inspired 
concept  of  the  actual  fatherhood  of  God 
and  the  concomitant  brotherhood  of 
man  is  a  basic  doctrine  of  Mormonism 
and  is  the  most  profound  and  hopeful 
philosophy  in  the  world  today. 

We  believe  in  a  living,  personal  God; 
that  his  glory  is  intelligence,  which  de- 
notes purpose  and  plan;  that  he  has  the 
will  and  the  power  to  realize  his  pur- 
poses. He  is  our  Father,  and  that  fact 
assures  love  and  inspires  trust. 

May  the  Holy  Spirit  direct  all  who 
participate  in  the  proceedings  of  this 
conference,  in  song,  prayer,  or  discourse, 
and  inspire  in  all  who  listen  a  desire 
for  renewed  dedication  and  activity. 
May  our  lives  attest  our  gratitude  for 
the  priceless  privilege  of  living  in  the 
greatest  of  all  dispensations  and  partici- 
pating in  the  final  preparation  for  the 


second  coming  of  Christ.    No  era  in 
history  was  more  momentous  than  our 
own,  for  it  heralds  his  coming. 
The  words  of  the  poet  are  prophetic: 

"You  that  have  faith  to  look  with  fear- 
less eyes  upon  the  tragedy  of  a  world 
at  strife 

And  know  that  out  of  death  and  night 
shall  rise  the  dawn  of  ampler  life, 

Rejoice,  whatever  anguish  rend  the 
heart, 

That  God  has  given  you  the  priceless 

dower  to  live  in  these  great  times 

and  have  your  part 
In  freedom's  crowning  hour, 
That  you  may  tell  your  sons  who  see  the 

light    high   in   the    heavens,  their 

heritage  to  take, 
I  saw  the  powers  of  darkness  take  their 

flight, 

I  saw  the  morning  break." 

What  then  shall  we  take  home  from 
this  conference,  and  in  what  measure 
shall  we  take  it?  This  depends  upon 
"patient  continuance  in  well  doing," 
upon  the  quality  and  depth  of  soil  into 
which  the  seeds  of  truth  may  fall,  and 
upon  whether  we  become  doers  of  the 
word  and  not  hearers  only.  Shall  the 
seed  be  received  by  the  wayside,  in  stony 
places,  in  shallow  soil,  or  among  the 
thorns;  shall  the  care  of  this  world  and 
the  deceitfulness  of  riches  choke  the 
word  that  the  seeds  become  unfruitful; 
or  shall  it  be  received  into  good  ground 
and  bear  fruit?  Each  one  must  answer 
for  himself.  Let  us  pray  for  strength 
to  ".  .  .  do  justly,  and  to  love  mercy, 
and  to  walk  humbly  with  our  God"  (see 
Micah  6:8)  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  President  Hugh  B.  Brown  of  the  First 
Presidency  of  the  Church.  We  shall 
now  hear  from  Elder  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson, 
Assistant  to  the  Twelve.  He  will  be 
followed  by  Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins. 


10 

Friday,  April  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


First  Day 


I  am  sure  you  realize  that  one  would  be 
very  humble  following  President  Hugh 
B.  Brown.  I  sincerely  pray  that  what 
I  might  say  will  be  helpful  to  someone. 
I  would  like  to  speak  on  a  principle 
that  has  become  somewhat  old-fash- 
ioned, then  also  on  a  certain  practice 
that  has  become  rather  prominent. 

The  principle  that  I  should  like  to  say 
something  about,  together  with  the 
practice  that  I  feel  is  being  followed 
all  too  freely,  is  the  subject  of  Thrift  and 
Savings  versus  Debt  and  Spending. 

In  the  very  beginning  of  this  great 
country,  thrift  was  a  principle  that  was 
accepted,  practised,  lived,  and  followed. 
Likewise  in  the  beginning  of  the  Church 
in  this  dispensation,  our  pioneer  fathers 
from  the  very  beginning  were  taught 
thrift  and  saving  until  it  became  a  part 
of  their  very  lives. 

Today  we  hear  very  little  about  thrift, 
but  on  the  opposite  side  we  hear  so 
much  about  debt  and  spending,  and  we 
observe  it  on  nearly  every  side  until  it 
is  giving  great  concern.  Credit  buying 
has  become  greatly  abused  until  we 
find  many  families  and  many  indi- 
viduals in  difficulty.  Bankruptcies  filed 
in  1962  reached  an  all-time  high  in 
American  history.  An  increase  in 
bankruptcy  is  hitting  the  nation's  busi- 
ness. I  am  quoting  from  Don  C.  Wood- 
ward, business  editor  of  The  Deseret 
News: 

"A  rising  wave  of  personal  bank- 
ruptcies is  hitting  the  nation's  business 
where  it  really  hurts.  .  .  .  Americans 
are  not  only  buying  on  time  as  never 
before,  but  they  are  spending  themselves 
into  bankruptcy  in  record  numbers." 

The  bankruptcies  last  year  were 
greatly  increased  over  the  year  before, 
and  the  year  before  that  was  also  a 
record  year. 

"Consumer  credit  has  climbed  more 
than  40  percent,  but  personal  bank- 
ruptcy filings  have  soared  to  110  per- 
cent. In  each  of  the  last  six  years 
voluntary  bankruptcies  have  touched  a 
new  high."  (Don  C.  Woodward.) 

Thrift  is  very  often  completely  ig- 


nored. Debt  seems  to  be  on  the  con- 
stant increase.  Many  cities,  counties, 
states,  and  the  federal  government  are 
experiencing  a  constant  increase  in  debt. 
Many  people  are  finding  it  impossible 
to  live  within  their  income.  One  writer 
expressed  a  view  that  people  do  not 
know  how  to  live  within  their  income, 
and  "they  have  lots  of  company." 

There  was  a  time  when  most  people 
accepted  the  fact  that  you  could  not 
spend  more  than  your  income,  but  this 
practice  has  been  resisted.  It  would  be 
well  if  we  could  resist  the  temptation 
to  borrow  for  luxuries,  and  remember 
that  tomorrow  does  come,  and  tomorrow 
we  will  have  to  pay.  It  is  estimated  by 
one  writer  that  seventy  percent  of  the 
American  families  could  not  go  more 
than  sixty  days  without  a  pay  check. 
That  means  that  they  have  no  reserve, 
and  that  their  wages  are  already- 
obligated. 

Thrift  has  become  somewhat  obsolete. 
There  are  too  many  who  do  not  have 
any  savings.  They  spend  all  they  make, 
and  in  many  cases  they  spend  more 
than  they  make.  Perhaps  the  saddest 
feature  of  all  is  the  fact  that  the  lack 
of  thrift  and  savings  and  the  practice  of 
debt  and  spending  are  causing  very 
many  family  problems.  It  is  estimated 
that  more  divorces  were  caused  last  year 
by  financial  problems  than  by  any  other 
single  cause  or  reason. 

Parents  used  to  teach  their  children 
the  habit  of  saving.  They  taught  them 
to  save  and  to  go  without  things  until 
they  could  afford  some  of  the  luxuries 
they  wanted.  There  has  been  a  theory 
developed  now  with  the  phrase,  "Buy 
Now,  and  Pay  Later."  There  are,  how- 
ever, many  young  people  who  are  sav- 
ing for  their  education  and  for  their 
mission,  but  in  the  main  families  do 
not  save,  and  they  have  forgotten  the 
principle  of  thrift. 

It  is  difficult  today  to  refrain  from 
buying  things  that  we  do  not  need  be- 
cause the  temptation  is  great.  Payments 
are  low,  and  in  many  instances  things 
can  be  purchased  for  nothing  down. 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


11 


Wise  parents  might  try  to  instil  the 
virtue  of  thrift  in  their  children.  Chil- 
dren should  be  taught  to  save.  Mr. 
Gerald  R.  Christensen  of  The  Deseret 
News  in  the  article,  "Saving  Takes 
Planning,"  states:  "Saving  is  not  diffi- 
cult. It  is  just  getting  started  that  is  the 
biggest  step.  Once  an  individual  gets 
over  the  big  step,  he  should  attempt  to 
develop  the  habit  of  thrift,  which  will 
last  his  lifetime." 

Skilful  management  of  money  pro- 
vides great  satisfaction.  Every  individual 
should  be  encouraged  to  put  aside  regu- 
larly a  portion,  even  though  it  may  be 
small,  of  that  which  he  receives,  and 
as  Mr.  Christensen  further  states,  "He 
will  then  have  taken  a  big  step  toward 
building  a  nobler  character  and  finan- 
cial stability." 

Now  with  reference  to  debt  and  spend- 
ing, it  does  cause  a  great  deal  of  trouble 
in  families.  Recently  I  have  had  a 
number  of  men  and  women  come  and 
talk  to  me  about  their  troubles.  In 
nearly  every  instance  we  discovered  that 
they  were  having  trouble  with  their 
finances.  Then  quarrels  started,  bills 
were  unpaid,  and  estranged  relation- 
ships followed. 

Therefore,  it  would  be  well  if  a  man 
and  his  wife  could  sit  down  and  go  over 
their  finances  together,  particularly  per- 
taining to  their  indebtedness,  and  plan 
to  get  out  of  debt  and  not  go  in  any 
deeper,  unless  they  know  there  is  a 
way  in  which  they  can  repay  their 
obligations.  Women  would  do  well 
to  know  more  about  their  husbands' 
finances  and  to  make  sure  that  they  have 
a  sound  fiscal  policy  in  their  own  fam- 
ily. They  would  do  well  if  they  could 
save  a  little  for  the  future,  practise  the 
law  of  thrift,  not  be  extravagant  and 
wasteful,  and  save  a  little  of  what 
they  make  and  not  spend  it  all.  It  would 
be  well  if  a  family  could  go  without  some 
things  until  they  can  afford  them. 

Elmer  R.  Davis  had  this  to  say: 
"There  is  growing  concern  in  this  coun- 
try about  the  relatively  few  married 
couples  who  have  placed  thrift  and 
savings  among  their  economic  habits." 

Young  married  couples,  even  middle- 
aged  couples,  should  not  expect  to  have 
everything  all  at  once.  It  has  taken 
many  of  us  many  years  of  hard  work 


before  we  could  have  a  home  or  an 
automobile.  We  were  taught  to  work 
hard,  to  save,  and  to  be  thrifty.  Yes, 
we  have  known  poverty.  We  knew  the 
only  way  to  overcome  financial  diffi- 
culties was  by  hard  work,  thrift,  and 
savings.  It  would  have  been  folly  to 
practise  the  principle  of  spending  and 
debt  and  borrow  more  money  in  order 
to  overcome  this  financial  difficulty. 

Quoting  again  from  Elmer  R.  Davis: 
"Today's  ever-present  struggle  is  real, 
and  to  meet  this  economic  struggle,  mar- 
ried couples  should  develop  a  philosophy 
of  thrift.  Without  such  a  philosophy, 
they  usually  cannot  hope  to  achieve  the 
comfortable  adjustment  they  expect." 

Married  couples  like  to  feel  finan- 
cially successful.  They  like  a  sense  of 
financial  well-being.  However,  it  is 
hardly  fair  for  young  couples  or  middle- 
aged  couples  to  expect  all  of  the  con- 
veniences it  has  taken  a  lifetime  for 
many  to  achieve. 

Charles  V.  Neal,  Jr.  writes:  "A  young 
couple  entered  into  married  life  with  the 
best  of  intentions.  As  all  good  consumers 
do,  they  bought  heavily  on  the  install- 
ment plan  and  did  not  save  a  nickel  to 
ward  off  emergencies  or  predictable 
major  expenditures.  When  payments  be- 
came burdensome,  they  consolidated 
into  bigger  loans.  Then  collection 
procedures  brought  on  family  fights, 
they  separated  and  blamed  each  other." 

I  also  quote  again  from  Mr.  Neal,  and 
I  wish  you  would  please  note  its  sig- 
nificance: "Never  has  a  major  threat  to 
family  life  appeared  on  the  social  hori- 
zon with  less  critics  than  has  the  install- 
ment buying,  borrowing,  spending 
and  debt." 

There  is  no  disgrace  in  being  poor, 
but  by  hard  work,  thrift,  and  saving 
you  can  build  an  economic  future.  Yes, 
many  of  us  have  known  poverty.  Living 
costs  and  taxes  perhaps  contribute 
greatly  to  this  economic  situation,  but 
debt  and  spending  seem  to  be  prevalent 
on  every  hand.  If  we  knew  the  total  in- 
debtedness of  all  the  individuals  of  this 
country,  it  would  be  a  staggering,  unbe- 
lievable amount.  One  writer  has  stated 
that  this  country,  as  far  as  its  national 
debt  is  concerned,  is  greater  than  all  of 
the  other  countries  of  the  world  put  to- 
gether.   This  may  not  be  completely 


12 

Friday,  April  5 

accurate,  but  it  is  a  reliable  estimate. 

Sometimes  it  may  not  be  wise  to  ac- 
cept credit  even  though  it  is  available. 
Sometimes  it  may  not  be  wise  to  make 
purchases  even  though  you  do  not  need 
to  pay  for  them  at  the  time.  Some- 
times it  may  not  be  wise  to  assume  a 
debt  or  an  obligation,  especially  if  there 
is  some  doubt  or  question  in  your  mind 
as  to  your  honest  ability  to  make  pay- 
ment when  agreed  upon. 

Security:  How  can  you  expect  se- 
curity without  sacrifice?  One  usually 
has  to  earn  security.  How  can  one  feel 
secure  when  he  is  confronted  with  heavy 
debt,  with  large  payments  which  he 
knows  he  cannot  meet?  When  a  per- 
son allows  himself  to  get  in  this  position, 
and  he  has  taken  on  debt  and  obliga- 
tions he  finds  he  cannot  meet,  it  does 
something  to  him.  It  may  destroy  his 
self-respect,  his  confidence,  his  reputa- 
tion, and  even  his  credit  rating. 

Debt  and  spending  have  created  an- 
other serious  problem  because  of  the 
constant  increased  welfare  load  on  both 
the  state  and  federal  governments  and 
the  Church.  Our  welfare  load  in  all 
three  categories  is  on  the  constant  up- 
grade, and  yet  we  are  living  in  a  great 
country  where  there  are  many  oppor- 
tunities. Thrift  and  savings  have  been 
forsaken,  and  many  of  us  do  not  prepare 
for  our  own  retirement.  We  have  been 
living  in  good  times  these  past  fifteen  or 
twenty  years,  and  during  these  same 
so-called  good  years  of  prosperity,  our 
welfare  load,  as  indicated,  has  in- 
creased shamefully.  Divorces  caused  by 
financial  problems  have  increased.  Debt 
and  spending  and  extravagance  have 
been  practised  As  individuals  we  should 
take  a  new  look  at  our  own  financial 
situation  and  learn  to  live  within  our 
income  and  to  practise  the  law  of  thrift 
and  the  principle  of  saving. 

I  am  not  referring  to  a  sensible  credit, 
because  credit  is  necessary  in  the  con- 
duct of  business  affairs.  Sometimes  a 
farmer  needs  to  buy  equipment  for  his 
farm,  or  a  man  and  wife  may  want  to 
buy  a  home  and  pay  for  it  like  rent. 
That  is  not  the  kind  of  debt  to  which 
we  refer.  We  are  referring  to  the  debt 
of  buying  luxuries  that  we  could  do 
without  and  borrowing  money  to  buy 
things  we  do  not  need. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

It  would  be  well  for  a  father  to  teach 
his  son,  or  a  mother  to  teach  her  daugh- 
ter, how  to  live  within  his  or  her  income. 
Recently  I  heard  a  mother  speak  at  a 
large  gathering.  She  had  six  sons.  She 
was  greatly  concerned  about  these  sons 
because  she  knew  someday  they  would 
marry  daughters  in  that  same  com- 
munity. She  pleaded  with  the  mothers 
of  daughters  to  raise  their  girls  not  to 
expect  too  much,  to  be  willing  to  make 
sacrifices.  She  pleaded  with  mothers  to 
teach  their  girls  how  to  manage,  how 
to  save,  to  be  thrifty,  and  not  to  expect 
new  furniture,  new  home,  and  new  auto- 
mobile until  they  could  afford  it.  She 
was  greatly  concerned  about  the  girls 
these  boys  would  someday  marry.  Like- 
wise, fathers,  teach  your  sons  how  to 
manage,  teach  them  thrift. 

We  should  teach  them  the  beauty  of 
thrift  and  not  the  drudgery,  not  the  un- 
pleasantness of  thrift.  Teach  them  the 
self-respect  and  personal  satisfaction  of 
paying  their  own  way  in  life.  Let  them 
know  there  is  a  reward  for  thrift  and 
saving,  and  there  is  also  a  penalty  for 
debt  and  spending. 

There  is  a  price  to  pay,  and  the  price 
of  success,  freedom,  and  economic  inde- 
pendence is  high,  but  not  nearly  so  high 
as  the  price  of  failure,  bankruptcy,  heavy 
indebtedness,  and  worry. 

Let  us  do  without  some  of  the  things 
that  we  can  do  without  until  we  can 
pay  for  them.  Let  us  live  within  our 
income  and  prepare  for  the  future.  Save 
money  for  an  education,  for  your  mis- 
sion, for  the  day  of  marriage.  Remem- 
ber that  when  money  comes  into  your 
hands,  regardless  of  the  amount  of  it, 
do  not  spend  all  of  it.  Save  something. 
Married  couples  should  avoid  argu- 
ments about  finances,  and  the  best  way 
to  do  that  is  not  to  get  into  financial 
difficulties  in  the  first  place. 

Prepare  for  your  own  retirement,  and 
do  not  expect  the  state  or  federal  govern- 
ments or  Church  to  take  care  of  you. 
You  owe  that  to  yourself.  Do  not  abuse 
your  credit.  When  you  have  an  obliga- 
tion, and  you  have  assumed  a  debt,  go 
without  anything  and  everything  until 
that  debt  is  paid.  If  you  disregard  finan- 
cial responsibility,  in  due  time  you  may 
lose  your  own  self-respect. 

Married  couples,  take  a  look  at  your 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  WINS  13 


financial  situation  and  see  if  it  is  sound. 
Do  not  try  to  spend  yourself  into  pros- 
perity. You  might  land  up  in  bankruptcy. 

Let  us  try  to  solve  our  own  problems. 
Then  we  will  live  better,  and  we  will 
live  closer  to  the  Lord.  We  will  meet  our 
obligations,  and  we  will  pay  our  tithing 
and  our  contributions,  remembering  al- 
ways that  the  money  which  comes  into 
our  hands  is  not  altogether  our  own 
money,  and  it  does  not  all  belong  to  us. 

With  God's  blessings  and  help  and 
with  the  freedom  of  this  great  country  of 
free  enterprise,  industry,  and  oppor- 
tunity, we  can  make  a  better  life  for 
ourselves  now  and  in  future  years.  May 
God  bless  us  that  we  will  not  com- 
pletely forsake  that  great  and  beautiful, 


old-fashioned  principle  of  thrift  and 
savings,  but  that  we  will  "shy  away 
from  debt  as  we  would  a  plague,"  as 
stated  by  our  late  President  J.  Reuben 
Clark,  Jr.  Everything  is  spiritual  in  the 
sight  of  the  Lord — yes,  even  the  tem- 
poral. This  is  God's  work,  and  may  we 
live  to  obey  the  laws  of  God,  the  laws 
of  man,  and  the  laws  of  the  land,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  has  just 
addressed  us.  We  shall  now  hear  from 
Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


I  am  happy,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
for  the  opportunity  to  stand  before  you 
and  bear  my  testimony.  I  recommend 
to  you  what  I  have  been  doing  the  last 
few  weeks,  brothers  and  sisters,  and 
that  is  to  read  in  the  scriptures  a  bit, 
in  the  Old  Testament.  I  like  to  open 
the  Spanish  version  and  read  it.  And  in 
doing  so  recently  I  was  struck  with  the 
very  frequent  references  in  which,  in 
the  reconstruction  after  the  exodus 
from  Egypt  they  had  to  ask  for 
contributions  from  the  people  for  their 
work.  And  the  thing  that  appealed 
to  me  was  that  almost  invariably  they 
asked  that  the  people  should  volun- 
tarily contribute  with  a  willing  heart. 
I  think  that  is  a  very  important  atti- 
tude for  us  to  take  at  the  present 
time — the  voluntary  contribution  with 
a  willing  heart — and  when  I  say 
contribution  I  don't  mean  contribu- 
tions in  money  particularly,  but  con- 
tributions of  substance  and  service,  and 
you  who  are  immediately  in  front  of 
us  here  are  men  all  of  whom,  I  believe, 
have  particular  assignments  for  service 
in  the  Church. 

If  we  serve  with  the  idea  that  good 
service  will  bring  promotion,  we  may 
be  disappointed.  If  we  serve  with  a 
willing  heart  because  we  love  people 


and  love  to  help  them,  the  Lord  will 
make  us  happy.  In  one  of  the  scriptures 
which  I  read,  it  said,  "And  they  rejoiced 
because  they  contributed  with  a  willing 
heart."  I  think  that  is  the  secret  of  our 
happiness  very  much,  brothers  and  sis- 
ters, the  attitude  which  we  have  in  the 
service  which  we  render.  We  are  here 
for  experience,  for  growth  and  develop- 
ment, and  the  growth  and  de- 
velopment of  the  spirit  is  perhaps  the 
most  important  element  of  our  lives. 
So,  why  can't  we  develop  the  habit 
of  helping  each  other  willingly  and 
effectively  and  efficiently.  If  we 
could  do  that,  we  would  be  happy 
always,  I  believe.  So  I  think  that 
is  one  of  our  very  crucial,  funda- 
mental principles. 

We  serve,  we  contribute,  we  pay  our 
tithes  and  our  offerings.  If  we  pay  them 
because  we  dare  not  refuse  to  pay  them, 
it  is  of  little  benefit  to  us.  If  we  pay 
those  things  because  we  love  the  work, 
love  God,  love  his  people,  and  realize 
that  the  only  way  we  can  serve  him 
is  to  serve  his  children  here,  then  we 
will  grow  and  develop,  and  whether 
we  amass  great  wealth  or  not  we  will 
be  happy. 

Man  is  that  he  may  have  joy,  and  I 
think  we  ought  to  pay  some  attention 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  5 

to  it,  brothers  and  sisters,  that  we  be 
happy  with  each  other,  because  our 
service  is  willing. 

There  are  many  of  us,  holders  of  the 
priesthood,  many  of  us  who  are  holders 
of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  that 
somewhere  or  another  after  taking  on 
the  obligation  and  the  implied  covenants 
that  are  with  it  do  very  little  in  the 
way  of  service.  We  fail  to  serve  our 
quorums;  we  fail  to  serve  our  wards; 
we  fail  to  serve  our  stakes;  we  fail 
pretty  much,  if  the  reports  coming  to 
us  are  true,  to  serve  our  God.  We  ought 
not  to  assume  those  obligations,  breth- 
ren, if  we  don't  feel  in  a  measure  that 
we  can  fulfil  or  comply  with  the  prom- 
ises and  covenants  therein,  and  any 
man  who  has  received  that  priesthood 
should,  with  a  willing  heart,  attempt 
to  measure  up  to  his  responsibilities 
and  opportunities. 

Now  if  I  could  leave  with  you  just 
that  one  thought  and  then  suggest  that 
you  go  back  into  the  scriptures  and  find 
the  interesting  stories  connected  with  it, 
I  would  feel  quite  happy  today.  The  time 
is  so  limited  that  I  am  not  going  to  take 
more  of  it  today,  but  I  want  you  to 
understand  that  in  the  long  service 
that  I  have  rendered  here  I  have  tried 
to  have  a  willing  heart  and  serve  you 
well.  I  have  had  no  other  major  re- 
sponsibility or  interest  since  1931  when 
I  was  appointed  but  to  help  this  work 


First  Day 

and  especially  to  help  the  seventies  of 
the  Church.  We  are  very  proud  of  the 
seventies.  We  are  very  proud  of  the 
work  that  they  accomplish,  and  we  are 
interested  in  the  purpose  for  which  the 
seventies  were  organized.  Let  us  all 
then,  brothers  and  sisters,  set  to  our 
problems  with  a  willing  heart,  with 
faith,  and  sincere  devotion  to  our  God, 
I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spoken  to  us. 

The  chorus  and  congregation  will  now 
join  in  singing  "Praise  To  The  Man 
Who  Communed  With  Jehovah." 

Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  be  our  next 
speaker. 

The  Congregation  and  the  Logan  In- 
stitute of  Religion  Choir  joined  in  sing- 
ing the  hymn,  "Praise  To  The  Man 
Who  Communed  With  Jehovah." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  now  speak  to 
us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Eldred  G.  Smith. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  dear  Son  Michael: 

With  the  hope  that  I  might  say  some- 
thing, my  son,  that  will  help  you  to 
live  a  more  complete  and  joyful  life 
and  that  someday  you  will  receive  a 
blessed  exaltation  in  the  presence  of  our 
Lord,  I  am  writing  you  this  letter. 

Deep  in  the  heart  of  every  human 
being  is  a  strong  desire  to  experience 
joy  day  by  day.  In  fact,  Father  Lehi 
claimed  that  the  achievement  of  a  life 
of  joy  was  the  principal  purpose  of  our 
existence.  He  said:  "Adam  fell  that 
men  might  be;  and  men  are,  that  they 
might  have  joy."  (2  Nephi  2:25.) 

In  order  that  you  might  live  a  life 


filled  with  joy,  that  you  might  be  happy 
now,  in  the  future,  and  forever,  it  is 
necessary  that  you  understand  who  you 
are  and  the  course  that  you  must  follow 
in  order  to  attain  a  fulness  of  joy  in  this 
life  and  in  the  world  to  come. 

You  are  a  son  of  God,  literally  and 
actually  a  child  of  an  Eternal  Father  in 
heaven.  You  are  endowed  with  the 
spiritual  attributes  of  godliness  that  if 
properly  cultivated  will  result  even- 
tually in  your  returning  to  the  presence 
of  that  Divine  Being  and  receiving 
eternal  life.  Regarding  this  important 
truth,  the  First  Presidency,  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith  and  his  Counselors, 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


15 


Presidents  John  R.  Winder  and  Anthon 
H.  Lund,  wrote: 

"Man  is  a  child  of  God,  formed  in 
the  divine  image  and  endowed  with 
divine  attributes,  and  even  as  the  in- 
fant son  of  an  earthly  father  and 
mother  is  capable  in  due  time  of  be- 
coming a  man,  so  the  undeveloped  off- 
spring of  celestial  parentage  is  capable, 
by  experience  through  ages  of  aeons,  of 
evolving  into  a  God."  (The  Improve- 
ment Era  13:81.) 

My  son,  in  the  spring  of  1820,  the 
greatest  event  that  ever  occurred  in  the 
United  States  took  place  in  the  Sacred 
Grove  in  New  York.  God  our  Eternal 
Father  and  his  Only  Begotten  Son  ap- 
peared to  a  boy  just  your  age — the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith — in  response  to 
his  prayer  regarding  which  church  to 
join.  This  marvelous  vision  was  the 
prelude  to  the  restoration  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Soon  thereafter, 
numerous  heavenly  beings  appeared  to 
the  Prophet,  revealing  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  for  the  salvation  of  as 
many  of  the  human  family  as  will  be- 
lieve and  obey.  The  true  church  was 
established;  namely,  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

In  accordance  with  the  predictions  of 
the  ancient  prophets,  this  is  the  Dispen- 
sation of  the  Fulness  of  Times,  ".  .  .  the 
times  of  the  restitution  of  all  things, 
which  God  hath  spoken  by  the  mouth 
of  all  his  holy  prophets  since  the  world 
began."  (Acts  3:21.) 

You  have  the  tremendous  blessing, 
my  son,  of  being  a  member  of  the  true 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  This  is  an 
inheritance  more  valuable  than  all  of 
the  wealth  of  the  world. 

Seek  day  by  day  throughout  your 
life  to  have  sufficient  inspiration  and 
wisdom  to  know  what  the  Lord  our 
Savior  desires  you  to  do;  and  then  work 
under  that  divine  inspiration  to  do  it 
at  all  times  to  the  best  of  your  ability. 
Jesus  put  it  this  way:  "But  seek  ye  first 
the  kingdom  of  God,  and  his  righteous- 
ness; and  all  these  things  shall  be  added 
unto  you."  (Matt.  6:33.) 

Always  select  good  company  with 
whom  to  associate.  Your  companions 
greatly  influence  the  life  that  you  live. 
Stay  away  from  places  of  temptation. 
If  any  young  man  frequents  places  of 


evil,  eventually  he  will  be  ensnared 
in  sin. 

In  modern  revelation,  the  Lord  has 
commanded:  "Wherefore,  stand  ye  in 
holy  places,  .  .  ."  (D&C  87:8.)  Going  to 
church  and  doing  temple  work  places 
one  in  holy  places.  The  Lord  thy  God 
commanded:  "And  that  thou  mayest 
more  fully  keep  thyself  unspotted  from 
the  world,  thou  shalt  go  to  the  house 
of  prayer  and  offer  up  thy  sacraments 
upon  my  holy  day."  (Ibid.,  59:9.) 

Keep  your  mind  and  heart  clean  and 
pure  at  all  times.  The  scriptures  truth- 
fully declared:  "For  as  .  .  .  [a  man] 
thinketh  in  his  heart,  so  is  he."  (Prov. 
23:7.)  Our  thoughts  are  like  seeds 
planted  in  a  fertile  garden.  They  take 
root,  grow,  and  eventually  mature  in 
full  bloom.  Thus  the  very  center  of 
our  character-growth  is  our  inner 
thoughts.  Our  thoughts  precede  our 
actions.  They  are  the  underlying  forces 
that  shape  our  destiny.  My  son,  if  one 
could  look  into  your  heart  when  you 
have  nothing  in  particular  to  do  but 
to  live  with  your  thoughts,  one  could 
predict  your  future  happiness  and  suc- 
cesses or  your  future  heartaches  and 
failures. 

It  is  definitely  true  that  each  person 
is  the  product  of  his  own  individual 
thinking.  Mr.  James  Allen  aptly  de- 
clared: "Whatever  your  present  en- 
vironment may  be,  you  will  fall,  remain, 
or  rise  with  your  thoughts,  your  Vision, 
or  your  Ideals.  You  will  become  as 
small  as  your  controlling  desire,  as 
great  as  your  dominating  aspiration." 
(As  A  Man  Thinketh,  p.  42.) 

Thus  let  me  advise:  my  son,  guard 
your  mind  and  your  thinking  continu- 
ously. Do  not  listen  to  impure  or 
indecent  stories,  Never  repeat  a  thought 
or  a  story  that  you  would  not  be  proud 
to  tell  your  mother.  Immoral  stories 
are  insidious  and  degrading  to  one's 
spiritual  growth  and  sweetness  of  per- 
sonality; therefore,  remember  never  to 
let  anything  come  from  your  lips  that 
is  indecent,  suggestive,  degrading,  or  of 
an  immoral  nature  in  any  respect.  The 
Savior  declared:  "Blessed  are  the  pure 
in  heart:  for  they  shall  see  God." 
(Matt.  5:8.) 

Knowing  that  we  are  children  of  God, 


16 

Friday,  April  5 

the  Apostle  Paul  pointed  out  that  our 
bodies  are  very  sacred.  He  said: 

"Know  ye  not  that  ye  are  the  temple 
of  God,  and  that  the  Spirit  of  God 
dwelleth  in  you? 

"If  any  man  defile  the  temple  of  God, 
him  shall  God  destroy;  for  the  temple 
of  God  is  holy,  which  temple  ye  are." 
(1  Cor.  3:16-17.) 

On  another  occasion,  the  Apostle 
Paul  made  it  very  clear  that  each  of  us 
will  have  to  answer  for  his  own  mis- 
takes, and,  on  the  other  hand,  each  of 
us  will  be  rewarded  for  his  own  good 
actions.    To  quote: 

"Be  not  deceived;  God  is  not  mocked: 
for  whatsoever  a  man  soweth,  that  shall 
he  also  reap. 

"For  he  that  soweth  to  his  flesh  shall 
of  the  flesh  reap  corruption;  but  he  that 
soweth  to  the  Spirit  shall  of  the  Spirit 
reap  life  everlasting."  (Gal.  6:7-8.) 

Remember  this,  my  son,  God  is  no 
respecter  of  persons.  He  will  hold  you 
accountable  for  your  sins  and  reward 
you  for  your  righteous  acts.  The  writer 
of  Ecclesiastes  truthfully  declared: 

"Let  us  hear  the  conclusion  of  the 
whole  matter:  Fear  God,  and  keep  his 
commandments:  for  this  is  the  whole 
duty  of  man. 

"For  God  shall  bring  every  work  into 
judgment,  with  every  secret  thing, 
whether  it  be  good,  or  whether  it  be 
evil."  (Ecc.  12:13-14.) 

The  justice  and  mercy  of  God  in 
blessing  his  children  is  given  plainly  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  as  follows: 

"There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed 
in  heaven  before  the  foundations  of  this 
world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are 
predicated — 

"And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing 
from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  the 
law  upon  which  it  is  predicated." 
(D&C  130:20-21.) 

My  son,  there  was  a  divine  and  eternal 
truth  declared  by  Alma,  that  great 
Nephite  prophet  and  teacher,  which  I 
wish  would  rise  in  front  of  your  eyes 
in  your  mind  as  a  great  placard  in 
glowing  letters  every  time  temptation 
comes  your  way  throughout  life.  I 
would  that  every  Latter-day  Saint  boy, 
girl,  man,  and  woman  would  memorize 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

Alma's  divine  declaration  and  that  it 
would  flash  strongly  in  their  minds  on 
each  and  every  occasion  that  they  are 
tempted  to  do  wrong.  Alma  declared: 
"Behold  I  say  unto  you,  wickedness 
never  was  happiness."  (Alma  41:10.) 

Perhaps  a  scripture  of  equal  vital  im- 
portance to  have  ringing  in  your  ears 
is  Paul's  firm  declaration  that  ".  .  .  the 
wages  of  sin  is  death."  (Rom.  6:23.) 

Your  Heavenly  Father  has  blessed 
you,  my  son,  with  a  healthy  body  and 
a  keen  mind.  Certainly  he  expects  you 
to  keep  them  that  way.  To  help  ac- 
complish this,  he  revealed  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  It  stands  to  reason  that  wise 
boys  and  wise  men  will  at  no  time 
take  substances  into  their  bodies  which 
are  not  good  for  them.  I  plead  with 
you  to  refrain  from  taking  the  first 
smoke,  and  then  tobacco  will  never  be 
a  severe  temptation  to  you.  The  same 
truth  holds  for  any  other  harmful  sub- 
stance that  you  might  be  tempted  to 
take  into  your  body.  Set  your  standards 
high.  Be  determined  that  you  will 
never  break  God's  law  of  health.  The 
achievement  of  this  resolution  will  bring 
you  joy,  peace,  and  comfort.  It  will 
result  in  your  maintaining  health  in 
your  body  and  mind;  and  you  will  re- 
ceive ".  .  .  wisdom  and  great  treasures 
of  knowledge,  even  hidden  treasures" 
(D&C  89:19)  one  of  which  treasures  is 
a  firm  conviction  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ 
and  the  Savior  of  the  world.  Also, 
obedience  to  the  Word  of  Wisdom  will 
help  you  to  maintain  your  body  as  a 
pure  temple  in  which  the  Spirit  of 
God  can  dwell. 

My  son,  be  prayerful.  Pray  to  your 
Heavenly  Father  every  night  before  you 
retire  to  bed.  Pray  to  him  every  morn- 
ing before  you  leave  your  bedroom.  Pray 
for  the  sick  and  afflicted,  the  poor  and 
needy,  the  widows  and  orphans,  and  all 
workers  of  righteousness  throughout  the 
world.  Pour  out  your  heart  in  thanks- 
giving to  him  for  the  numerous  blessings 
that  he  gives  you.  Pray  to  him  for  his 
divine  guidance  in  your  schoolwork. 
He  will  answer  your  prayers  by  en- 
hancing your  memory  and  by  giving 
you  strength  and  wisdom  to  complete 
your  assignments.  He  will  help  you  to 
succeed  in  your  numerous  undertakings. 

Throughout  life  continue  to  call  upon 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


17 


your  Heavenly  Father  for  divine  guid- 
ance in  all  things  that  you  do.  Great 
men  such  as  George  Washington  and 
Abraham  Lincoln  round  their  supreme 
strength  in  times  of  distress  in  humble 
prayer  to  their  Divine  Creator.  So  will 
your  burdens,  my  son,  be  made  lighter 
and  your  heart  be  filled  with  serenity 
and  peace  as  you  travel  the  highway  of 
life  if  you  continue  to  keep  your  Eternal 
Father  as  your  companion,  your  friend, 
and  your  guide.  Surely  he  will  take 
you  by  the  hand  and  will  give  you 
answers  to  your  prayers. 

One  of  the  most  vital  things  in  your 
life,  if  you  are  to  have  joy,  is  for  you 
to  learn  to  work  and  to  love  to  work. 
My  son,  work  and  work  and  work,  for 
herein  lies  perhaps  your  greatest  joy. 
I  know  of  nothing  that  gives  more 
satisfaction  to  one's  hearts  than  to  have 
a  job  he  likes,  and  to  do  that  job  effi- 
ciently to  the  best  of  his  ability.  An 
indescribable  peace  and  satisfaction 
come  into  one's  heart  through  work 
well  done.  When  you  stand  before  the 
judgment  seat  of  the  Lord  after  leav- 
ing this  mortal  life,  be  able  to  report 
honestly  that  you  always  did  a  full 
day's  work.  As  you  know,  one  of  the 
two  first  laws  given  to  Adam  and  Eve 
was  the  commandment  to  earn  their 
bread  by  the  sweat  of  their  faces.  This 
law  we  must  all  obey  if  our  lives  are 
pleasing  to  our  Heavenly  Father.  The 
following  important  advice  appeared  in 
the  Salt  Lake  Tribune: 

"A  police  chief's  advice  to  teen-agers 
— Always  we  hear  the  plaintive  cry  of 
the  teen-agers — 

"  'What  can  we  do?  Where  can  we 
go?' 

"The  answer  is  ...  go  home!  Hang 
the  storm  windows,  paint  the  wood- 
work, rake  the  leaves,  mow  the  lawn, 
shovel  the  walk,  wash  the  car;  learn  to 
cook,  scrub  the  floors,  repair  the  sink, 
build  a  boat,  get  a  job,  help  the  min- 
ister, priest,  or  rabbi,  the  Red  Cross,  the 
Salvation  Army;  visit  the  sick,  assist  the 
poor,  study  your  lessons,  and  then 
when  you  are  through  and  not  tired 
.  .  .  read  a  good  book." 

My  son,  if  you  are  to  live  a  life 
filled  with  joy  and  happiness,  learn 
now  while  in  your  youth  that  such 


results  come  about  only  to  the  proportion 
that  you  render  service  to  your  fellow 
men.  We  serve  our  God  by  serving  his 
children.  There  is  nothing  sweeter  in 
all  the  world  than  the  spiritual  blessings 
which  come  to  us  as  a  result  of  service — 
with  the  result  of  losing  our  lives  for 
the  Master's  sake,  with  the  assurance 
that  someday  we  shall  receive  eter- 
nal life. 

With  these  thoughts  and  purpose  in 
mind,  live  in  such  a  way  that  you  are 
preparing  to  go  on  a  mission  when  the 
call  comes  from  the  Lord.  Save  your 
money  now  in  your  own  private  mis- 
sionary fund.  Study  the  scriptures. 
Learn  the  gospel  doctrines  and  then 
you  will  be  prepared  to  serve  your 
fellow  men — God's  children — when  the 
call  comes. 

My  son,  be  honest  in  all  of  your 
dealings.  Never  tell  a  lie.  Build  a 
character  of  high  integrity.  Be  just  and 
righteous  in  all  of  your  actions  as  you 
go  through  life.  Joy  and  success  will 
be  your  reward. 

In  due  time  you  will  desire  to  obey 
the  greatest  law  that  God  has  given  to 
man — the  law  of  celestial  marriage.  My 
son,  while  in  your  youth  you  are  pre- 
paring by  clean  living  for  this  great 
event.  During  your  courtship  days, 
court  on  a  spiritual  plane;  and  then 
when  you  establish  a  home  it  will  be 
built  upon  a  rock  foundation  which 
will  weather  all  storms. 

To  live  and  achieve  in  this  world  of 
complex  problems,  my  son,  you  must 
have  courage.  Do  away  with  any  fear 
that  may  enter  your  heart.  Fear  is  a 
destroyer  of  success  and  happiness.  It 
confuses  the  mind.  It  undermines  one's 
abilities.  Peace  of  mind  comes  from  a 
clear  conscience  and  the  conquest  of 
fear.  Therefore,  remember  and  do  at 
all  times  as  the  Lord  commanded 
Joshua:  ".  .  .  Be  strong  and  of  a  good 
courage;  be  not  afraid,  neither  be  thou 
dismayed:  for  the  Lord  thy  God  is 
with  thee  whithersoever  thou  goest." 
(Joshua  1:9.) 

And  now,  my  son,  I  shall  close  this 
letter  by  making  only  one  more  im- 
portant suggestion.  As  you  travel 
through  life,  have  faith  in  yourself. 
Have  faith  that  you  can  accomplish 


18 

Friday,  April  5 

the  things  which  you  righteously  take 
into  your  heart  to  accomplish.  Disap- 
pointments do  come  in  life;  but  also 
great  shall  be  your  joy  with  the  numer- 
ous accomplishments  you  will  make 
through  tenaciously  retaining  faith  in 
your  ability  to  achieve. 

Affectionately, 
Your  Father 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


President  David  O.  McKay: 


Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spoken  to 
us.  Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Presiding 
Patriarch  to  the  Church,  will  now  ad- 
dress us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


A  favorite  song  of  mine,  one  that  is 
familiar  to  us  all  goes  to  this  effect: 

"I  have  a  testimony,  sacred  and  dear 
to  me 

Something  that  lies  within  my  soul.  .  .  ." 

Just  what  is  a  testimony?  Webster 
says:  "A  solemn  declaration  or  affirma- 
tion made  to  establish  or  prove  a  fact," 
or  "attestation  of  a  fact  or  an  event." 
Could  we  say  then  that  a  testimony  is 
knowledge  of  a  fact?  We  say  we  have  a 
testimony  as  if  it  were  a  possession.  Of 
course  it  is.  It  is  a  possession  of  knowl- 
edge. How  does  one  obtain  knowledge, 
either  secular  or  religious?  A  student 
must  go  through  the  usual  process  of 
study,  research,  etc.  To  obtain  religious 
knowledge  requires  additional  effort. 
The  Lord  said,  ".  .  .  Ask,  and  it  shall 
be  given  you;  seek,  and  ye  shall  find; 
knock,  and  it  shall  be  opened  unto 
you."  (Luke  11:9.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has  given 
us  a  formula:  "If  we  are  to  gain  a  testi- 
mony of  anything,  we  must  first  desire 
a  testimony,  then  learn  to  understand 
the  truth  in  question,  then  practise  that 
which  has  been  learned,  and  before  and 
during  the  study  and  practice  we  must 
be  in  close  communication  with  our 
Heavenly  Father  and  pray  to  him 
for  help." 

Moroni  also  gives  us  a  formula:  "And 
when  ye  shall  receive  these  things," 
that  is  after  you  have  done  the  study 
and  received  instruction  and  prepared 
yourself,  "I  would  exhort  you  that  ye 
would  ask  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  in 
the  name  of  Christ,  if  these  things  are 
not  true;  and  if  ye  shall  ask  with  a 
sincere  heart,  with  real  intent,  having 


faith  in  Christ,  he  will  manifest  the 
truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power  of 
the  Holy  Ghost. 

"And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
ye  may  know  the  truth  of  all  things." 
(Moroni  10:4-5.) 

The  power  and  function  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  is  to  testify  of  the  truth,  and 
especially  to  testify  of  the  Father  and 
of  the  Son.  The  Holy  Ghost,  being  a 
personage  of  Spirit,  speaks  through  our 
spirits.  Each  of  us  has  a  spirit  body 
and  a  physical  body.  Before  coming  to 
this  earth  we  were  personages  of  spirit, 
yet  we  were  individuals.  We  could 
walk,  run,  speak,  see,  think.  Our  spirit 
body  was  made  of  elements  not  found 
in  mortality.  That  spirit  body,  com- 
bined with  our  mortal  body,  makes  a 
living  soul.  When  we  receive  prompt- 
ings from  the  Holy  Ghost,  it  is  like 
opening  an  imaginary  door  between  the 
spirit  mind  and  the  mortal  mind.  When 
this  happens,  we  receive  knowledge 
which  we  cannot  deny.  We  have  to  put 
ourselves  in  tune  with  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  or  the  Spirit  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
as  has  been  mentioned  here  today.  We 
will  be  held  accountable  for  that  knowl- 
edge in  the  day  of  judgment.  By  the 
Holy  Ghost  you  may  know  the  truths 
of  the  gospel.  I'd  like  to  mention  just 
a  few  of  these,  and  we  will  have  heard 
some,  and  we  will  hear  more  as  we  go 
through  this  conference. 

You  may  know  of  a  surety  of  the 
visitation  of  God  the  Father  and  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  in  the  Sacred  Grove.  The  Father, 
calling  him  by  name,  said,  ".  .  .  This 
is  My  Beloved  Son.  Hear  Him!"  (Joseph 
Smith  2:17.) 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


19 


Then  you  may  also  know  of  the  true 
concept  of  Deity.  God  is  truly  an  Ex- 
alted Being.  Jesus  Christ  is  literally 
his  Begotten  Son. 

We  testify  that  the  Book  of  Mormon 
eame  forth  by  divine  guidance;  also  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  the  Pearl 
of  Great  Price. 

We  know  and  accept  the  restoration 
of  the  gospel  with  the  priesthood  of  God 
to  act  in  his  name  and  perform  the 
ordinances  of  the  gospel  needed  for 
salvation  and  exaltation. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  has 
said,  "What  today's  world  must  have  if 
humanity  is  to  go  on  climbing  upward, 
is  men,  those  wearing  the  cloth  as  well 
as  the  laity,  who  know  that  God  lives 
and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ;  men,  that 
having  this  knowledge  have  also  the 
intellectual  honesty  not  only  to  admit 
but  to  proclaim  it;  who  have  further 
the  moral  courage  and  sterling  character 
to  live  the  righteous  lives  this  knowledge 
demands.  This  knowledge  must  be  a 
living,  burning  knowledge  of  God 
and  Christ." 

We  testify  of  the  divine  purpose  of 
temple  work,  the  vicarious  work  neces- 
sary for  the  salvation  of  all,  the  living 
and  the  dead.  Yes,  we  declare  the  prin- 
ciple of  continued  revelation  through 
his  prophet,  and  his  prophet  today  is 
President  David  O.  McKay. 

We  testify  of  the  surety  that  the  resur- 
rection is  real  and  will  be  universal, 
that  each  shall  inherit  a  degree  of  glory 
in  accordance  with  his  faithfulness —  the 
celestial,  terrestrial,  or  telestial — the 
righteous  to  receive  eternal  life  and  ex- 
altation in  the  celestial  kingdom.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said,  "If  the 
resurrection  from  the  dead  be  not  an 
important  point  or  item  in  our  faith, 
we  must  confess  we  know  nothing  about 
it;  for  if  there  be  no  resurrection  from 
the  dead  then  Christ  is  not  risen;  and 
if  Christ  is  not  risen  he  was  not  the 
Son  of  God;  and  if  he  was  not  the  Son 
of  God  there  is  not  nor  cannot  be  a 
Son  of  God,  if  the  present  book  called 
the  scriptures  is  true;  because  the  time 
has  gone  by  when,  according  to  that 
book,  he  was  to  make  his  appearance." 
(DHC.  2,  18.) 

There  is  great  strength  in  a  testimony, 
strength  to  resist  evil,  strength  to  do. 


What  is  it  that  causes  a  bishop  or  a 
stake  president  or  others  to  spend  so 
much  time  in  church  work  without 
monetary  remuneration?  Is  it  not  his 
testimony?  Was  it  not  their  faith  and 
testimony  that  brought  the  pioneers 
across  the  plains?  Is  it  not  testimony 
that  keeps  the  great  missionary  system 
going?  President  Henry  D.  Moyle  has 
said,  "It  is  our  purpose  as  members  of 
the  Church  to  consider  constantly  the 
place  of  testimony  in  our  lives.  We 
dare  not  become  complacent  or  unaware 
of  this  priceless  gift  which  is  ours." 
When  we  bear  our  testimonies,  we  are 
teaching  others  the  truths  that  have 
enriched  our  lives  and  made  us  happy. 
Our  testimonies  are  born  to  give  thanks 
to  God  for  the  knowledge  and  assur- 
ance he  has  given  us,  to  assist  our 
brethren  and  sisters  in  strengthening 
their  testimonies,  and  to  carry  the  con- 
viction which  is  ours  into  the  hearts 
of  all  other  people  upon  the  face  of 
the  earth. 

I  invite  all  to  follow  the  formula 
given  and  obtain  a  testimony  with  us 
of  the  truths  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  I  testify  to  you  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ  that  these  things  are  true 
and  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ 
is  truly  the  Son  of  God,  that  Joseph 
Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God  through 
whom  the  gospel  has  been  restored.  I 
testify  that  President  David  O.  McKay 
is  a  true  prophet  of  God  today,  and  I 
do  this  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  heard  from  Elder 
Eldred  G.  Smith,  Presiding  Patriarch  to 
the  Church.  You  will  hear  later  from 
Brother  Evans. 

The  following  telegram  has  been  re- 
ceived from  the  Northeast  British  Mis- 
sion, President  Grant  S.  Thorn:  "Our 
missionaries  and  members  send  their 
love  and  best  wishes  for  a  glorious  con- 
ference and  sustain  you  in  this  marvel- 
ous work." 

And  one  from  President  Tuttle  of  the 
South  American  Mission:  "Over  1,000 
missionaries,  30,000  members,  nearly 
one-third  of  whom  joined  the  Church 
last  year,  and  seven  mission  presidents 


20 

Friday,  April  5 

send  love  and  greetings.  All  missions 
are  anxiously  awaiting  conference  broad- 
casts over  short-wave.  We  join  in  sup- 
plicating our  Father's  blessings  for  a 
great  conference." 

I  am  pleased  to  note  that  we  have  in 
our  audience  Congressman  Ralph  Hard- 
ing of  Idaho,  and  Dr.  Russell  H.  Blood, 
until  recently  captain  in  the  United 
States  Navy.  He  is  captain  in  the  Navy, 
but  in  charge  recently  of  naval  installa- 
tions in  the  northeastern  part  of  the 
United  States. 

The  Logan  Institute  of  Religion  Choir 
will  now  favor  us  with  "Almighty  God 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

Of  Our  Fathers,"  conducted  by  James 
L.  Bradley.  The  benediction  will  be 
offered  by  Elder  George  F.  Simmons, 
formerly  President  of  the  West  Central 
States  Mission,  after  which  this  confer- 
ence will  stand  adjourned  until  two 
o'clock  this  afternoon. 

Selection  by  the  Logan  Institute  of 
Religion  Choir,  "Almighty  God  Of  Our 
Fathers." 

Elder  George  F.  Simmons,  formerly 
President  of  the  West  Central  States 
Mission,  offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


FIRST  DAY 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  Conference  reconvened  at  2:00 
p.m.,  Friday,  April  5th. 

The  choral  music  for  this  session  of 
the  Conference  was  furnished  by  the 
Logan  LDS  Institute  of  Religion  Choir, 
with  James  L.  Bradley,  Conductor.  Frank 
W.  Asper,  Tabernacle  Organist,  was  at 
the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  who  pre- 
sided and  conducted  the  services,  made 
the  following  opening  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Tabernacle  is  filled  to  overflow- 
ing this  afternoon,  and  probably  more 
thousands  have  tuned  in  on  their  radios 
and  televisions.  We  extend  a  hearty 
welcome  to  our  unseen  audience,  and 
to  all  who  are  gathered  here  in  the 
Tabernacle  and  in  the  Assembly  Hall. 

We  are  favored  again  this  afternoon 
by  the  presence  of  the  Logan  Institute 
of  Religion  Choir,  with  Professor  James 
L.  Bradley  conducting,  and  Frank  W. 
Asper  at  the  organ.  We  shall  begin 
these  services  by  the  Institute  of  Religion 
Choir  singing  "How  Beautiful  Upon  the 
Mountains." 

The  invocation  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  John  A.  Buehner,  formerly  Presi- 
dent of  the  South  German  Mission. 


The  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "How 
Beautiful  Upon  The  Mountains." 

Elder  John  A.  Buehner,  formerly 
President  of  the  South  German  Mission, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 
John  A.  Buehner,  formerly  President  of 
the  South  German  Mission. 

We  have  just  received  the  following 
cable  from  President  Theodore  Tuttle 
of  the  South  American  Mission  and 
President  Ronald  V.  Stone  of  the  North 
Argentine  Mission:  "Hostilities  prac- 
tically over.  Most  public  services  now 
operating.  Civilian  population  tranquil. 
Missionaries  and  members  safe  in 
North  Argentine  Mission." 

The  Logan  Institute  of  Religion  Choir 
will  now  favor  us  with  "O  My  Father," 
conducted  by  Professor  James  L.  Brad- 
ley. After  the  singing,  President  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith,  President  of  the  Quo- 
rum of  the  Twelve,  will  give  the  open- 
ing address.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Richard  L.  Evans. 


The  Logan  Institute  of  Religion  Choir 
sang  the  hymn,  "O  My  Father." 


21 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I  want 
to  talk  to  you  briefly  on  our  responsi- 
bilities in  regard  to  the  Sabbath  day. 
In  the  beginning  the  Lord  chose  the 
last  day  after  the  creation  as  the  Sab- 
bath, and  that  continued  until  the 
resurrection  of  Christ.  After  the  resur- 
rection of  our  Savior,  the  Sabbath  day 
was  transferred  to  the  Lord's  day  or  the 
first  day  of  the  week,  contrary  to  the 
ideas  of  some  professed  Christians. 

The  Lord  settled  this  matter  so  far 
as  we  are  concerned  in  a  revelation 
given  by  the  Lord  on  the  7th  day  of 
August  1831,  which  was  the  Sabbath 
day — Sunday.  I  am  going  to  read  a 
few  of  these  verses. 

"And  that  thou  mayest  more  fully  keep 
thyself  unspotted  from  the  world,  thou 
shalt  go  to  the  house  of  prayer  and  offer 
up  thy  sacraments  upon  my  holy  day; 

"For  verily  this  is  a  day  appointed 
unto  you  to  rest  from  your  labors,  and 
to  pay  thy  devotions  unto  the  Most 
High; 

"Nevertheless  thy  vows  shall  be 
offered  up  in  righteousness  on  all  days 
and  at  all  times; 

"But  remember  that  on  this,  the 
Lord's  day,  thou  shalt  offer  thine  obla- 
tions and  thy  sacraments  unto  the  Most 
High,  confessing  thy  sins  unto  thy 
brethren,  and  before  the  Lord. 

"And  on  this  day  thou  shalt  do  none 
other  thing,  only  let  thy  food  be  pre- 
pared with  singleness  of  heart  that  thy 
fasting  may  be  perfect,  or,  in  other 
words,  that  thy  joy  may  be  full." 
(D&C  59:9-13.) 

Now,  we  have  some  people  professing 
Christianity  who  are  very  intense  upon 
the  idea  that  the  old  Sabbath  day  should 
be  maintained.  The  Lord  himself 
changed  the  day.  The  Saints  in  olden 
times,  that  is,  after  the  resurrection  of 
Christ,  accepted  the  date  of  the  resur- 
rection as  their  Sabbath,  and  they  called 
it  the  Lord's  day.  It  was  on  that  day 
that  John,  in  prayer  before  the  Lord, 
received  the  great  revelation  known 
to  us  as  the  "apocalypse." 


I  think  we  Latter-day  Saints  should 
remember  this  fact.  Now  in  our  legis- 
lature, the  session  before  the  last,  if  I 
remember  correctly,  a  bill  was  passed 
and  vetoed  by  the  governor,  asking  that 
businesses  be  closed,  prohibited  to  oper- 
ate, on  the  Sabbath  day.  It  was 
defeated  by  veto. 

This  year  the  legislature  could  not 
come  to  a  conclusion,  and  so  no  action 
was  final.  But  our  duty  is  plain  and 
clear.  The  Lord  has  decided  the  mat- 
ter for  Latter-day  Saints,  as  I  think  he 
did  to  former-day  Saints,  and  Sunday 
is  our  Sabbath. 

Now  just  a  word  of  advice.  You 
may  follow  it  or  you  may  reject  it,  but 
it  is  what  I  am  doing,  and  Sister  Smith. 
We  do  not  patronize  stores  that  open 
on  Sunday,  and  there  are  stores  that 
do  not  open  on  Sunday,  and  so  they 
get  our  trade. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  all  I  want  to  say 
is  that  the  Lord  has  set  the  time  for  our 
Sabbath  by  revelation.  We  know  which 
day  we  should  worship.  W e  should  fol- 
low it,  and  we  should  be  true  and 
faithful,  and  I  think  we  should  support 
those  who  likewise  observe  that  day. 

Now  on  Sunday  in  Salt  Lake  City 
there  will  be  a  wonderful  ball  game 
played  by  two  of  the  great  teams.  There 
will  be,  I  am  positive,  members  of  the 
Church  who  will  go  to  the  ball  park 
instead  of  to  their  Sacrament  meetings. 
Our  duty  is  to  serve  the  Lord  and 
to  remember  him  and  the  covenants 
that  we  have  made.  May  the  Lord  bless 
you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles. 

Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  now  speak  to  us. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  John 
Longden. 


22 

Friday,  April  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


First  Day 


Going  back  to  the  opening  by  President 
Brown  this  morning  on  doing  and  living 
the  law  and  keeping  the  commandments 
and  proving  it  by  our  actions,  I  should 
like  to  talk  briefly  on  a  subject,  sug- 
gested by  the  phrase,  that  "knowing  is 
not  enough." 

May  I  share  with  you  a  sentence  or 
two  from  Winston  Churchill,  who  said, 
"It  is  no  use  saying  'We  are  doing  our 
best.'  You  have  got  to  succeed  in  doing 
what  is  necessary."  I'm  not  sure  we 
know  really  when  we  are  doing  our  best. 
I'm  not  sure  that  in  most  cases  we 
couldn't  extend  ourselves  further  in  any 
performance  in  life.  Since  eternal  life 
is  the  great  prize,  it  isn't  enough  just  to 
try.  We  have  to  succeed.  There  is 
only  one  journey — an  everlasting  one — 
one  time  and  one  eternity — so  far  as  I 
am  aware,  and  if  I  may  use  the  ver- 
nacular, we  can't  afford  to  "sit  this  one 
out."    Knowing  is  not  enough! 

Emerson  said,  "The  world  looks  like 
...  a  mathematical  equation,  which, 
turn  it  how  you  will,  balances  itself." 
And  then  he  added  a  sentence  which  I 
have  often  cited,  "Do  the  thing,  and 
you  shall  have  the  power.  They  who 
do  not  the  thing  have  not  the  power." 
One  eminent  thinker  and  writer, 
Richter,  said,  "Don't  wait  for  extraor- 
dinary circumstances  to  do  good  actions; 
try  to  use  ordinary  situations." 

The  encouraging  thing  in  life  for  all 
of  us  is  this  or  one  of  the  encouraging 
things,  one  of  the  realistic  facts  to  face, 
that  our  Father  in  heaven  knows  us 
better  than  we  know  ourselves;  that  he 
knows  our  capacity;  that  he  doesn't 
expect  of  us  the  unattainable,  the  un- 
reachable, or  the  impossible;  that  he 
hasn't  given  us  commandments  that  we 
can't  keep  or  requirements  that  we  can't 
meet.  Just  to  take  one  specific  thing, 
for  example,  as  to  our  physical  well- 
being:  the  law  of  health  that  God  has 
given  us.  He  describes  it  as  being  coun- 
sel to  "the  weak  and  the  weakest." 
(D&C  89:3.)  Nobody  can  be  weaker 
than  "the  weakest"  and  he  has  assured 
us  that  this  counsel  is  for  even  these, 
and  simply  knowing  is  not  enough.  It 


is  the  doing  of  the  thing,  the  living  of 
the  law,  the  keeping  of  the  command- 
ment that  brings  the  blessings.  There  is 
ample,  conclusive,  objective,  medical 
evidence  that  this  great  law  of  health 
can  be  factually  demonstrated  to  be  what 
it  is  said  to  be.  But  mere  knowing  is  not 
enough.  We  have  to  accept  first  the 
first  of  the  first  principles,  which  include 
not  only  faith  but  also  repentance. 

Now  we  hear  much,  and  we  are  grate- 
ful for  the  wonderful  wide-reaching  of 
the  Church,  for  its  accomplishments 
world-wide,  for  conversions,  for  the 
marvelous  forward  moving  in  every 
field  that  pertains  to  the  Church.  But 
this  is  made  possible  by  people  who  per- 
form, by  missionaries  who  go  out,  by 
people  who  pay  tithes  and  offerings 
and  building  funds.  And  again,  just 
knowing  is  not  enough.  Someone  has 
to  do  everything;  and  wonderful  as  has 
been  and  is  the  growth  of  the  Church 
it  can  be  yet  much  more  so  by  the  per- 
formance of  those  who  increase  in 
faithfulness.  Such  things  are  never 
quite  convenient.  We  have  to  stretch 
ourselves  and  exceed  ourselves  and  set 
aside  our  convenience  ofttimes. 

How  many  times  this  people  have 
heard  from  this  pulpit  the  words  of 
Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  so  often  uttered 
in  the  ringing  voice  of  President  Grant: 
"That  which  we  persist  in  doing  becomes 
easier  for  us  to  do;  not  that  the  nature 
of  the  thing  itself  has  changed,  but  that 
our  power  to  do  is  increased,"  although 
President  Grant,  as  I  remember  quoted 
them  just  a  bit  differently  from  the  above. 

I  am  thinking  of  our  statistics  per- 
taining to  the  active  and  the  inactive, 
all  of  which  are  needed  as  a  measure  of 
performance.  But  I  am  not  sure  that 
our  Father  in  heaven  is  going  to  be  too 
much  impressed  with  statistics  per- 
taining to  the  missing.  I  think  perhaps 
he  will  look  at  us  and  ask,  "Where  are 
the  others?"  as  any  father  would  if  any 
of  his  family  were  missing.  Where  are 
the  others? 

Testimony  is  a  great  thing,  but  men 
who  have  had  great  testimonies  have 
fallen  by  the  wayside.    Men  who  have 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 


23 


had  wonderful  manifestations  have  fal- 
len by  the  wayside,  and  the  living  of 
the  law,  the  meeting  of  the  obligation, 
the  rendering  of  the  service,  the  doing 
of  the  duty,  the  rising  to  the  actual  per- 
formance is  the  essential  thing,  and  the 
mere  knowing  of  our  duty  is  not  enough. 

There  is  one  thing  concerning  which 
none  of  us  knows  enough.  We  don't 
know  enough,  any  of  us,  to  be  safe  in 
setting  any  of  the  commandments  aside. 
We  have  to  take  someone's  advice;  we 
have  to  believe  someone;  and  I  for 
myself  would  hope  to  accept  the  counsel 
of  my  Father  in  heaven  and  not  pre- 
sume to  know  enough  to  set  any  of  his 
commandments  aside. 

"No  life,"  said  one  of  our  eminent 
contemporary  thinkers,  "ever  grows  great 
until  it  is  focused,  dedicated,  and 
disciplined." 

"And,  if  you  keep  my  commandments 
and  endure  to  the  end  you  shall  have 
eternal  life,  which  is  the  greatest  of  all 
the  gifts  of  God."  (D&C  14:7.) 

If  I  may  again  cite  Emerson,  he  said, 


"Nothing  can  bring  you  peace  but  your- 
self. Nothing  can  bring  you  peace  but 
the  triumph  of  principles." 

With  you,  I  would  wish  this  day  to 
say  to  President  McKay  that  I  believe 
we  have  the  courage,  the  devotion,  the 
dedication,  and  the  conviction  to  follow 
him  wherever  the  Lord  God  leads  him 
to  lead  us.  With  you  I  know  that  he  is 
a  prophet.  With  you  I  bear  witness  of 
the  divinity  of  our  Lord  and  Savior, 
Jesus  Christ,  and  with  you  I  acknowl- 
edge that  merely  knowing  this  is  not 
enough,  and  with  you  I  would  pray  for 
strength  to  do  increasingly  well  that 
which  we  know  so  well,  which  God 
has  given  us  to  know,  and  I  do  it  in 
Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
Elder  John  Longden  will  be  our  next 
speaker.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Alma  Sonne. 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Being  fully  aware  of  the  responsibility 
which  is  mine,  yet  duly  grateful  for  it, 
I  am  mindful  of  the  prayers  which  have 
been  and  are  being  offered  and  the 
thoughtful  remembrance  of  President 
Brown  this  morning,  invoking  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord  upon  all  who  should 
stand  here.  From  all  this,  I  receive 
strength.  I  desire  the  inspiration  of  the 
Lord  with  the  thought  in  mind  that  our 
hearts  may  be  touched  that  we  may  be 
built  up  in  our  faith  and  testimony  of 
this  glorious  restored  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

Recently  I  read  a  survey  which  had 
been  made  by  the  American  Institute  of 
Family  Relations,  a  reputable  research 
organization  which  indicated  that  forty 
million  homes  in  America  need  help. 
This  survey  did  not  refer  to-  the  need 
for  financial  help — something  deeper.  It 
found  that  there  is  a  lack  of  harmony, 
unity,  tranquility,  and  a  distinct  lack 
of  compatibility  in  many  families.  This 
survey  caused  me  to  reflect  on  the  need 


of  spiritual  values  in  all  our  homes.  I 
ask  myself  the  question,  "Do  I  live  in  a 
mere  house  or  a  beautiful  spiritual 
home?  What  am  I  doing  to  bring  spirit- 
uality into  our  home?" 

Whether  it  be  a  fale  in  the  South 
Pacific,  an  igloo  in  Alaska,  a  hogan  on 
the  reservation,  an  hacienda  in  Mexico, 
a  tent,  a  trailer,  a  flat,  an  apartment, 
or  a  house  in  any  other  part  of  the 
world,  each  in  its  own  place  can  be  a 
home  regardless  of  the  cost  of  materials 
that  went  into  its  construction  or  its 
furnishings.  Each  can  be  a  home  or  a 
castle  for  the  family  who  lives  therein 
by  acceptance  and  application  of  the 
spiritual  values  taught  by  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  In  other  words,  it  will 
not  be  a  home  unless  the  breath  of  life 
is  breathed  into  it  through  spirituality. 

We  have  seen  houses  under  construc- 
tion which  when  completed,  have  been 
listed  as  "model  homes."  Recently  I 
saw  an  advertisement  which  asked,  "Is 
there  living  power  in  your  home?"  Flere 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  5 

again  is  reference  to  material  furnish- 
ings for  a  house — extra  comforts  and 
conveniences.  Are  any  of  these  things 
the  genuine  requisites  of  a  home?  Victor 
Hugo  recognized  one  requirement  for  a 
happy  home  when  he  wrote: 

"A  house  is  built  of  sticks  and  stones 
and  tiles  and  posts  and  piers, 

But  a  home  is  built  of  loving  deeds 
that  stand  a  thousand  years." 

Love — loving  deeds.  Victor  Hugo 
may  have  had  a  glimpse  into  immor- 
tality. However,  he  placed  a  time  limit 
of  a  thousand  years.  We  know  that  the 
family  unit  will  continue  for  time  and 
all  eternity,  but  he  uttered  a  great  truth. 
A  home  is  built  of  love,  a  basic  virtue 
that  must  be  accepted  and  practised  if 
the  houses  we  live  in  are  to  become 
homes. 

What  are  some  of  the  spiritual  values 
which  will  help  to  make  a  house  a 
home? 

All  male  members  of  our  Church 

should   hold   and  every  member 

honor  the  priesthood. 

Have    family    prayer    night  and 

morning. 

Honor  the  Sabbath  day  to  keep  it 
holy. 

Attend  church  services  together  as 
a  family. 

Obey  the  law  of  tithing.    Our  ex- 
ample will  teach  our  children. 
Fast  two  consecutive  meals  once  a 
month  and  contribute  the  cost  to 
the  fast  offering  donation. 
Cultivate  the  habit  of  reading  the 
four  standard  works  of  the  Church 
and  the  best  in  literature. 
Have  children  baptized  when  they 
reach  the  age  of  eight  years. 
By  our  own  words  and  actions, 
guide  and  help  children  early  to 
love  the  Lord  and  to  develop  a 
testimony  of  the  restored  gospel. 
Prepare  each  young  man  to  look 
forward  to  a  mission  so  that  when 
the  time  comes,  he  will  have  a 
genuine  desire  to  go  out  and  serve 
the  Lord  as  a  missionary. 
Teach  children  to  look  forward  to 
temple  marriage.  Through  love  and 
encouragement,  help  them  to  un- 
derstand what  it  means  to  have 


First  Day 

such  a  ceremony  performed  in  the 
temple  and  then  to  honor  and 
obey  the  covenants  which  they  will 
make  there. 

Parents  should  love  and  respect 
children. 

Children  love  and  honor  parents. 
Keep  busy. 

Be  considerate  of  others  and  be  un- 
selfish. 

I  offer  these  as  a  few  suggestions  which 
will  help  make  a  house  a  home. 

In  my  travels  over  the  Church,  I  have 
found  many  homes  that  are  truly 
spiritual  shrines  to  the  families  who 
live  therein.  May  I  tell  you  of  one  or 
two  of  these  homes?  I  think  of  a  family 
of  eight  children.  The  father  is  busy  as 
a  counselor  in  a  bishopric,  the  mother 
active  in  auxiliary  work.  These  good 
parents  have  never  lost  sight  of  their 
responsibility  to  teach  their  children 
spirituality,  to  train  them  in  the  ways  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  They  know 
this  is  accomplished  first  and  foremost 
in  the  home.  They  attend  church  to- 
gether, participate  in  studying  the  scrip- 
tures together,  hold  family  night  where 
all  have  an  opportunity  further  to  de- 
velop and  utilize  the  talents  God  has 
blessed  them  with;  also  the  children  are 
taught  and  assisted  in  their  schoolwork. 
A  large  room  in  their  home  is  designated 
the  children's  room  with  each  child 
having  a  desk  of  his  own.  They  are 
taught  in  things  virtuous,  lovely,  and 
of  good  report.  They  are  taught  to  sing, 
and  when  they  become  old  enough, 
they  learn  to  play  some  musical  instru- 
ment. They  have  many  fun  times  to- 
gether as  a  family  unit. 

Here  is  truly  love  at  home.  Theirs 
is  not  just  a  house.  They  work  together 
and  for  each  other.  They  forget  selfish- 
ness. I  was  informed  by  the  father 
and  mother  that  the  sons  are  saving  so 
they  may  be  able  to  fill  missions  when 
called  by  their  bishop. 

Recently  it  was  my  privilege  to  at- 
tend the  funeral  service  for  a  man  who 
emigrated  to  the  United  States  when  he 
was  twenty-one  years  of  age,  a  non- 
member  of  the  Church  from  Germany. 
He  fell  in  love  with  a  faithful  member 
of  the  Church,  and  she  proceeded  to 
teach  him  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
thus  he  was  informed  of  the  great  prin- 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


25 


ciple  of  eternal  marriage.  After  studying 
and  gaining  a  conviction,  he  was  bap- 
tized. He  loved  and  lived  the  principles 
taught  by  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
In  due  time,  he  was  found  worthy  to 
receive  a  temple  recommend.  They 
were  sealed  over  the  altar  of  God  for 
time  and  for  all  eternity.  Twelve  chil- 
dren were  born  to  this  union.  All  of 
their  children  have  been  married  in  the 
temple  of  the  Lord  and  are  serving  in 
some  capacity  in  the  Church  at  the 
present  time,  following  the  beautiful 
example  taught  by  the  parents. 

They  came  through  many  hardships, 
financial  depressions,  etc.,  yet  never  lost 
sight  of  the  fact  that  they  were  rich 
with  spiritual  blessings.  Now  the  love, 
the  harmony  and  unity  taught  in  this 
one  home  extends  to  twelve  other  homes. 

May  I  quote  a  statement  from  Presi- 
dent McKay:  "The  secret  of  good  mem- 
bership in  the  Church  or  good 
citizenship  in  the  nation  lies  in  the 
home."  (The  Improvement  Era  66: 
[April  1963]  p.  252.) 

With  these  truths  in  mind,  let  us 
stay  close  to  our  children:  play,  work, 
pray,  and  worship  together.  These 
values  will  truly  bring  living  power  into 
the  place  we  live  regardless  of  where 
it  may  be  and  will  make  it  a  worthy 
home  for  his  spirit  children.  Then  our 
house  will  be  a  home — our  castle — a 
sacred  place. 

I  pray  that  all  of  us  here  assembled 
and  all  within  the  sound  of  my  voice, 
especially  those  having  membership  in 
the  Church,  will  desire  to  take  inven- 


tory and  make  of  our  houses  homes 
where  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  dwell 
and  where  all  are  unashamed  to  keep 
and  live  the  commandments  of  the  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ. 

Then  I  pray  for  all  who  are  listening 
in  who  may  not  have  membership  in 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  May  you  come  to  a  knowl- 
edge and  acceptance  of  the  truths  of 
this  glorious  gospel  which  will  bring 
peace  and  harmony  in  your  home. 

I  bear  you  my  witness  that  I  know 
that  God  lives.  I  know  that  Jesus  is 
his  divine  Son.  I  am  grateful  for 
this  testimony.  I  bear  witness  of  the 
divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  and  those  who  have  succeeded 
him  down  to  President  David  O.  McKay 
whom  I  uphold  and  sustain  as  the 
mouthpiece  and  prophet  of  the  Lord, 
holding  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  and 
the  mantle  of  authority.  May  we  be 
consistent  in  living  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  in  our  homes,  remembering 
again  that  our  latter-day  prophet  has 
said:  "The  secret  of  good  membership 
in  the  Church  or  good  citizenship  in 
the  nation  lies  in  the  home." 

God  bless  us  to  this  end,  I  pray  hum- 
bly in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  concluded  speaking. 
Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  now  address  us. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a  great 
privilege  to  stand  here.  It  is  also  a  great 
responsibility.  It  occurred  to  me  as  I 
was  listening  to  the  speakers  today  that 
there  is  much  encouragement  and  much 
inspiration  in  the  history  of  this  Church. 
I  recall  many  years  ago  of  hearing  Elder 
James  E.  Talmage  deliver  a  bacca- 
laureate sermon.  In  his  sermon  he  said: 
"The  Mormon  pioneers  were  well  nigh 
perfect  in  the  work  which  they  did."  He 
also  said  that  their  program  was  con- 


structive throughout,  and  that  they  laid 
a  solid  foundation  for  that  part  of  the 
vineyard  which  has  been  planted  in  the 
heart  of  these  Rocky  Mountains. 

During  the  month  of  July  1847,  Brig- 
ham  Young  looked  into  the  Salt  Lake 
Valley  and  remarked:  "This  is  the 
place."  After  the  lapse  of  1 15  years  you 
and  I  know  he  was  right.  It  is  still  the 
place.  It  is  the  best  place  on  the  earth  for 
the  Church  to  grow,  develop,  and  ex- 
pand, and  to  direct  its  activities  in  the 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  5 

process  of  building  up  God's  kingdom. 

I  am  sure  Brigham  Young  had  no 
doubts  nor  misgivings  as  he  made  that 
famous  declaration,  for  the  work  of 
colonization  had  already  commenced. 
Fields  were  being  plowed  and  irrigated. 
Crops  were  planted,  and  homes  provided. 
Scarcely  a  week  had  passed  before  he 
had  designated  the  very  spot  where  a 
temple  was  to  be  built  and  where  it 
now  stands.  "Here  we  will  build  a 
temple  to  our  God,"  he  said.  Do  you 
catch  the  significance  of  that  statement? 

There  was  so  much  to  do  to  provide 
the  material  comfort  for  his  people 
and  for  all  those  who  were  to  follow. 
Ordinarily  his  chief  concern  would  be 
for  the  physical  well-being  of  these 
people.  They  were  in  a  desert  land. 
The  hard  and  stern  reality  was  before 
them.  They  could  not  return,  for  they 
had  nowhere  to  go.  By  every  law  of 
probability  they  should  have  perished 
in  the  desert  country,  and  yet  this 
prophet-leader  thought  first  about  the 
spiritual  welfare  of  those  who  were  to 
come.  I  can  think  of  nothing  on  the 
pages  of  history  to  match  it. 

Brigham  Young  knew  that  no  people 
can  endure  permanently  without  God. 
Nations  crumble  and  fall  when  they 
ignore  the  standards  and  the  concepts 
by  which  they  arose  to  power  and  influ- 
ence. President  Young's  ambition  was 
to  lay  a  solid  foundation  that  would 
not  corrode  nor  disintegrate;  but  what 
was  the  situation  when  he  undertook 
to  lay  this  foundation?  Where  were  the 
Saints?  Where  was  the  body  of  the 
Church?  They  were  scattered  from  the 
British  Isles  to  the  Great  Basin  in  the 
Rocky  Mountains. 

As  the  year  1847  closed  there  were 
approximately  10,000  church  members 
in  England;  2,000  in  Scotland;  and  4,160 
scattered  on  a  world-wide  basis.  The 
church  population  in  the  Great  Salt 
Lake  Valley  was  about  2,000,  and  be- 
tween 5,000  and  13,000  were  at  Winter 
Quarters  in  Nebraska,  and  between 
2,000  and  4,000  in  the  various  settle- 
ments in  Iowa.  Less  than  200  re- 
mained in  Nauvoo,  and  between  200 
and  300  in  the  city  of  St.  Louis,  Mis- 
souri. There  were  between  7,000  and 
13,000  scattered  throughout  the  eastern 


First  Day 

and  the  southern  states,  and  2,000  in  the 
Society  [Tahitian]  Islands. 

The  Mormon  Battalion  numbering 
200  were  stationed  in  San  Diego  and 
Sutter's  Mill.  The  church  membership 
in  1847  was  approximately  40,000  souls. 
Most  of  them  were  headed  for  the 
Rocky  Mountains,  the  place  of  gather- 
ing in  fulfilment  of  prophecy,  for 
according  to  Micah:  ".  .  .  in  the  last 
days  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  the 
mountain  of  the  house  of  the  Lord 
shall  be  established  in  the  top  of  the 
mountains,  and  it  shall  be  exalted  above 
the  hills;  and  people  shall  flow  unto 
it."  (Micah  4:1.) 

The  Latter-day  Saints,  no  matter 
where  they  were,  knew  they  were  a 
chosen  people.  Their  movement  west- 
ward was  not  an  accident.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  had  referred  to  the  West 
when  he  prophesied  that  the  Saints 
would  become  a  mighty  people  in  the 
midst  of  the  Rocky  Mountains. 

We  need  only  review  the  history  of 
the  Church  to  feel  the  importance  of 
what  was  done  in  those  early  days. 
These  daring,  venturesome  men  and 
women  believed  in  God.  They  wor- 
shiped him  in  spirit  and  in  truth.  In 
the  desert,  coming  and  going,  they  had 
time  to  think  and  pray  and  to  appraise 
their  new  faith  and  make  comparisons 
with  all  they  had  left  behind. 

And  so  they  laid  a  foundation  that 
makes  for  permanency.  Again  I  say  the 
pioneer  movement  was  not  a  venture.  It 
was  a  directed  movement,  God-inspired 
and  sustained  by  an  over-ruling  provi- 
dence. It  was  a  search  for  freedom, 
where  sincere  and  honest  men  could 
worship  God  in  their  own  way. 

May  that  freedom  be  preserved  in  this 
land  of  America  and  wherever  there 
is  a  liberty-loving  people,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us. 

The  congregation  and  chorus  will 
now  join  in  singing  "O  Say,  What  Is 
Truth?"  conducted  by  Elder  James  L. 
Bradley. 

After  the  singing  Bishop  John  H. 


BISHOP  ]OHN  H.  VANDENBERG 


27 


Vandenberg  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 
will  address  us. 


The  Choir  and  the  congregation 
joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "O  Say, 
What  Is  Truth?" 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  John  H.  Vandenberg,  Presiding 
Bishop  of  the  Church,  will  now  speak 
to  us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr. 


BISHOP  JOHN  H.  VANDENBERG 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 


At  the  turn  of  the  century,  President 
Lorenzo  Snow,  in  addressing  the  Saints 
in  general  conference,  said,  "Seventy 
years  ago  this  Church  was  organized 
with  six  members.  We  commenced  so 
to  speak  as  an  infant.  .  .  .  Through  the 
blessings  of  the  Lord,  however,  we  man- 
aged to  move  along  in  our  stage  of 
infancy,  receiving  support  from  the 
Lord  as  he  saw  proper  to  give  it.  .  .  . 
We  understand  very  well,  when  we  re- 
flect back  upon  our  own  lives,  that  we 
did  many  foolish  things  when  we  were 
boys  because  of  our  lack  of  experience 
and  because  we  had  not  learned  fully 
to  obey  the  instructions  of  our  fathers 
and  mothers.  We  could  not  then 
comprehend  that  it  was  absolutely  neces- 
sary for  our  proper  advancement  that 
we  should  observe  the  counsels  of  our 
parents.  Many  of  us  learned  it,  but 
too  late  perhaps  to  correct  ourselves. 
Yet  as  we  advanced,  the  experience  of 
the  past  materially  assisted  us  to  avoid 
such  mistakes  as  we  had  made  in  our 
boyhood. 

"It  has  been  so  with  the  Church.  .  .  . 
When  we  examine  ourselves,  .  .  .  we 
discover  that  we  are  still  not  doing  ex- 
actly as  we  ought  to  do,  notwithstand- 
ing all  our  experience.  We  discern  that 
there  are  things  which  we  fail  to  do 
that  the  Lord  expects  us  to  perform, 
some  of  which  he  required  us  to  do  in 
our  boyhood.  But  we  feel  thankful 
and  grateful  that  we  are  enabled  now, 
.  .  .  to  accomplish  many  things.  .  .  . 
While  we  congratulate  ourselves  in  this 
direction,  we  certainly  ought  to  feel 
that  we  have  not  yet  arrived  at  perfec- 
tion. There  are  many  things  to  do  yet." 
(Conf.  Rep.,  April  1900,  pp.  1-2.) 

As  I  was  reading  President  Snow's 
message  to  the  Church,  it  was  evident 
to  me  that  the  Lord  has  been  good  as 


well  as  patient  with  the  Saints.  He  has 
set  up  these  conferences  wherein  his 
people  might  be  admonished  and  in- 
formed concerning  his  kingdom. 

Now  President  Snow  in  his  observa- 
tions referred  to  some  of  these  matters 
after  the  Church  had  been  established 
for  seventy  years. 

Today  with  the  Church  having 
reached  the  age  of  133  years,  we  marvel 
at  its  growth;  and  with  the  strength  of 
its  leadership,  we  are  moving  forward. 
Yet  as  we  examine  ourselves,  we  see 
there  is  much  need  for  improvement. 

I  think  of  the  Prophet  Isaiah's  words 
when  he  said:  "Cry  aloud,  spare  not, 
lift  up  thy  voice  like  a  trumpet,  and 
shew  my  people  their  transgression,  and 
the  house  of  Jacob  their  sins." 
(Isa.  58:1.) 

I  observe  a  great  need  for  the  teach- 
ing and  adherence  to  the  principle  of 
fasting.  I  would  like  to  say  something 
relative  to  it.  As  a  Church,  we  have  not 
reached  the  full  benefits  of  this  prin- 
ciple. There  are  some  who  faithfully 
observe  the  fast  and  who  receive  the  full 
blessings.  But  there  are  many  who 
must  yet  be  taught  the  true  principle 
of  fasting  and  be  converted  to  it  and 
practise  it  in  order  to  receive  the  great 
blessings  associated  with  it. 

The  Prophet  Isaiah  clearly  sets  forth 
an  understanding  of  the  fast.  As  he 
observed  the  people,  he  was,  no  doubt, 
considerably  upset  and  concerned  with 
the  way  they  had  abused  the  purpose 
and  principle  of  fasting. 

He  said:  ".  .  .  Behold,  in  the  day  of 
your  fast  ye  find  pleasure,  and  exact  all 
your  labours."  (Ibid.,  58:3.) 

A  writer  says  this  scripture  means 
that  they  find  pleasure  and  carry  on 
business  and  oppress  all  their  laborers. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


28 

Friday,  April  5 

With  all  their  professing  of  self-denial 
they  are  selfish.1 

"Behold,  ye  fast  for  strife  and  debate, 
and  to  smite  with  the  fist  of  wicked- 
ness: .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  58:4.) 

Or  in  other  words  as  a  result  they 
are  rewarded  with  strife,  debate,  and 
wickedness. 

Isaiah  further  explains  the  purposes 
and  blessings  concerning  the  fast.  He 
asks:  "Is  not  this  the  fast  that  I  have 
chosen?  to  loose  the  bands  of  wicked- 
ness, to  undo  the  heavy  burdens,  and 
to  let  the  oppressed  go  free,  and  that 
ye  break  every  yoke? 

"Is  it  not  to  deal  thy  bread  to  the 
hungry,  and  that  thou  bring  the  poor 
that  are  cast  out  to  thy  house?  when 
thou  seest  the  naked,  that  thou  cover 
him;  and  that  thou  hide  not  thyself 
from  thine  own  flesh?"  (Ibid.,  58:6-7.) 

I  suppose  when  he  speaks  of  "loosing 
the  bands  of  wickedness"  of  "undoing 
the  heavy  burdens,"  and  the  "break- 
ing of  every  yoke"  that  he  is  referring 
to  the  wickedness  of  people  who  think 
only  of  themselves  in  selfishness,  vanity, 
pride,  and  having  hearts  so  set  upon  the 
things  of  this  world  that  the  two  great 
commandments  of  loving  God  and  lov- 
ing neighbor  are  entirely  forgotten. 
The  principles  of  loving  thy  neighbor 
and  of  loving  God  are  encompassed  in 
the  true  purpose  of  the  fast. 

Certainly,  it  takes  no  imagination  to 
understand  what  is  meant  when  he 
says,  ".  .  .  that  thou  bring  the  poor  that 
are  cast  out  to  thy  house?  when  thou 
seest  the  naked,  that  thou  cover  him; 
and  that  thou  hide  not  thyself  from 
thine  own  flesh?" 

He  meant  that  in  addition  to  taking 
care  of  the  poor,  that  we  should  watch 
over  our  own  kin  and  be  responsible 
for  our  father,  mother,  brother,  and 
sister  when  they  are  in  need. 

It  is  here  that  I  would  like  to  state 
that  the  Lord  has  caused  a  day  of  fasting 
and  prayer  to  be  set  up  in  this  day  so 
that  collectively  the  Church  might  join 
together  to  fulfil  the  purposes  of  fasting. 

In  the  general  letter  from  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  to  the  Church  under  date 
of  May  17,  1845,  which  Orson  Pratt  read 
to  the  Saints,  these  words  appear: 

The  One  Volume  Bible  Commentary,  J.  R.  Dum- 
melow,  M.  A.  Editor,  page  449. 


First  Day 

"Let  this  be  an  ensample  to  all  saints, 
and  there  will  never  be  any  lack  for 
bread:  When  the  poor  are  starving,  let 
those  who  have,  fast  one  day  and  give 
what  they  otherwise  would  have  eaten 
to  the  bishops  for  the  poor,  and  every 
one  will  abound  for  a  long  time;  and 
this  is  one  great  and  important  principle 
of  fasts,  approved  of  the  Lord.  And  so 
long  as  the  saints  will  all  live  to  this 
principle,  with  glad  hearts  and  cheerful 
countenances  they  will  always  have  an 
abundance."  (DHC  7:413.) 

The  bishop  should  frequently  encour- 
age the  members  of  his  ward  to  observe 
the  fast  day  and  voluntarily  contribute  a 
generous  offering.  The  Lord  knows  in 
his  wisdom  that  individually  we  are 
generally  not  prone  to  seek  out  the  poor, 
the  hungry,  and  those  in  need,  and 
individually  attend  to  their  needs  on 
a  continuing  basis.  By  fasting  collec- 
tively there  is  no  end  to  the  good  that 
can  be  done;  that  no  one  need  suffer; 
that  such  assistance  as  might  be  given 
is  rendered  through  the  bishop  in  love 
and  mercy  and  that  full  dollar  value 
is  rendered  without  any  administra- 
tive cost. 

Fasting  is  a  voluntary  principle.  The 
Lord  also  said:  ".  .  .  it  is  not  meet  that 
I  should  command  in  all  things;  for 
he  that  is  compelled  in  all  things,  the 
same  is  a  slothful  and  not  a  wise  serv- 
ant; wherefore  he  receiveth  no  reward. 

"Verily  I  say,  men  should  be  anxiously 
engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and  do  many 
things  of  their  own  free  will,  and  bring 
to  pass  much  righteousness";  (D8cC 
58:26-27.)  Fasting  is  a  principle  that  all 
are  encouraged  to  live  by — the  young 
and  the  old,  the  rich  and  the  poor,  the 
widow  and  the  needy. 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  says:  "The 
Lord  has  instituted  the  fast  on  a  rea- 
sonable and  intelligent  basis,  and  none 
of  His  works  are  vain  and  unwise.  His 
law  is  perfect  in  this  as  in  other  things. 
Hence,  those  who  can  are  required  to 
comply  thereto;  it  is  a  duty  from  which 
they  cannot  escape;  but  let  it  be  remem- 
bered that  the  observance  of  the  fast 
by  abstaining  twenty-four  hours  from 
food  and  drink  is  not  an  absolute  rule, 
it  is  no  iron-clad  law  to  us,  but  is  left 
with  the  people  as  a  matter  of  con- 
science, to  exercise  wisdom  and  dis- 


BISHOP  JOHN  H.  VANDENBERG 


29 


cretion.  Many  are  subject  to  weakness, 
others  are  in  delicate  health,  and  others 
have  nursing  babies;  of  such  it  should 
not  be  required  to  fast.  I  have  known 
children  to  cry  for  something  to  eat  on 
fast  day.  In  such  cases,  going  without 
food  will  do  them  no  good.  Instead, 
they  dread  the  day  to  come,  and  in  place 
of  hailing  it,  dislike  it;  while  the  com- 
pulsion engenders  a  spirit  of  rebellion 
in  them,  rather  than  a  love  for  the 
Lord  and  their  fellows.  Better  teach 
them  the  principle,  and  let  them  ob- 
serve it  when  they  are  old  enough  to 
choose  intelligently,  than  to  so  compel 
them."  (Gospel  Doctrine,  p.  244.) 

I  feel  to  add  that  those  who  are  not 
physically  able  to  abstain  from  food  and 
drink  should  participate  on  fast  day  to 
the  extent  of  prayers,  offerings,  and 
testimony.  If  we  abide  by  the  word  of 
the  Lord  for  the  above  purposes,  we  will 
surely  be  blessed  as  God  has  promised 
through  his  prophets.  I  suppose  there  is 
no  physical  blessing  desired  so  much  as 
being  well  in  mind  and  in  body. 

Listen  again  to  Isaiah  and  this  prom- 
ise, "Then  shall  thy  light  break  forth  as 
the  morning,  and  thine  health  shall 
spring  forth  speedily:  .  .  ."  (Isa.  58:8.) 
What  would  this  be  worth  to  you?  Think 
of  what  it  means.  ".  .  .  and  thy  right- 
eousness shall  go  before  thee;  the  glory 
of  the  Lord  shall  be  thy  rereward." 
(Idem.) 

Further,  "Then  shalt  thou  call,  and 
the  Lord  shall  answer;  thou  shalt  cry, 
and  he  shall  say,  Here  I  am.  .  .  ." 
(Ibid.,  58:9.)  What  more  assurance 
would  we  need  than  this  as  a  promise 
that  we  may  call  upon  the  Lord  and 
he  will  answer? 

Then  Isaiah  reiterates:  ".  .  .  If  thou 
take  away  from  .  .  .  thee  the  yoke,  (or 
wickedness)  the  putting  forth  of  the 
finger,  (or  accusing  others)  and  speak- 
ing vanity; 

"And  if  thou  draw  out  thy  soul  to  the 
hungry,  and  satisfy  the  afflicted  soul; 
then  shall  thy  light  rise  in  obscurity, 
and  thy  darkness  be  as  the  noon  day: 

"And  the  Lord  shall  guide  thee  con- 
tinually, (or  the  Holy  Ghost  will  direct 
your  daily  life)  and  satisfy  thy  soul  in 
drought,  (This  is  your  personal  security 
in  times  of  need  and  difficulty.)  and 
make  fat  thy  bones:  (I  believe  this  has 


to  do  with  health.  In  the  bone  there  is 
marrow  and  marrow  manufactures  the 
blood  that  is  vital  to  the  strength  and 
well-being  of  the  body.)  and  thou  shalt 
be  like  a  watered  garden,  and  like  a 
spring  of  water,  whose  waters  fail  not 
(or  inspiration  and  wisdom  will  flow 
from  you  continually). 

"And  they  that  shall  be  of  thee  shall 
build  the  old  waste  places:  thou  shalt 
raise  up  the  foundations  of  many  gen- 
erations; and  thou  shaft  be  called,  The 
repairer  of  the  breach,  The  restorer  of 
paths  to  dwell  in."  (Ibid.,  58:9-12.)  To 
me  this  is  a  promise  to  those  working 
with  the  members  of  the  Church  who 
are  in  need  physically  and  spiritually, 
"they  that  shall  be  of  thee,"  or  that 
you  may  be  able  to  help  them — to  do 
what?  "Build  the  old  waste  places,"  and 
as  you  help  them  to  build  "thou  shalt 
raise  up  the  foundations  of  (their)  many 
generations  (to  follow) ;  and  then  thou 
shalt  be  called,  The  repairer  of  the 
breach."  In  other  words,  you  have 
helped  them  overcome  their  weaknesses, 
to  restore  their  souls,  to  bridge  the  gap 
through  reactivating,  rehabilitation,  and 
"restoring"  the  path  for  them  to  walk  in. 

To  those  responsible  for  the  leader- 
ship of  the  Saints  in  every  unit  of  the 
Church,  I  say,  teach  the  people  the  prin- 
ciple of  fasting,  in  love,  in  gentleness, 
in  firmness,  and  in  humility.  Fasting 
will  give  them  spiritual  strength  and 
help  them  to  develop  self-control. 

President  Snow  observed  in  his  day  a 
need  for  maturity,  so  we  today  after  133 
years  should  reach  manhood  in  the  fast 
offering  program. 

Actually  as  a  Church  we  are  not  meet- 
ing the  cash  needs  of  the  sick,  the  naked, 
and  the  hungry  as  we  should  through 
the  principle  of  fasting.  It  is  our  obli- 
gation to  teach  the  Saints  this  principle 
in  order  that  they  may  break  the  sin 
of  selfishness  that  their  offerings  and 
their  blessings  may  be  generous. 

Now  brothers  and  sisters,  I  want  to 
leave  with  you  the  desire  of  my  heart  in 
the  words  of  Omni:  "...  I  would  that 
ye  should  come  unto  Christ,  who  is  the 
Holy  One  of  Israel,  and  partake  of  his 
salvation,  and  the  power  of  his  redemp- 
tion. Yea,  come  unto  him,  and  offer 
your  whole  souls  as  an  offering  unto 
him,  and  continue  in  fasting  and  pray- 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  5 

ing,  and  endure  to  the  end;  and  as  the 
Lord  liveth  ye  will  be  saved."  (Omni 
26.)  In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  who  has  just  given  that  excellent 


First  Day 

address  on  fasting  is  the  Presiding 
Bishop  of  the  Church,  Elder  John  H. 
Vandenberg. 

Elder  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr.,  As- 
sistant to  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak  to 
us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Delbert  L.  Stapley. 


ELDER  WILLIAM  J.  CRITCHLOW,  JR. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


In  the  course  of  my  office  day,  at  about 
noon  of  the  day,  but  not  every  day,  I 
may  see  through  my  office  window  two 
men,  locked  arm  in  arm,  striding  toward 
Hotel  Utah.  One  is  tall  and  slender — 
rather  easy  to  identify — despite  his  dis- 
tance from  the  window.  He  is  President 
McKay  on  his  way,  by  escort,  to  his 
hotel  apartment. 

Some  day  President  McKay  may  let 
me  walk  with  him  to  his  apartment. 
Then,  with  our  arms  locked  tightly  to- 
gether, he  could  lean  on  me  physically, 
and  thus  in  very  small  measure  I  could 
compensate  him  for  the  many  times  I 
have  leaned  on  him  spiritually. 

Few  people  will  ever  have  the  privilege 
of  locking  arms  and  striding  with  a 
prophet,  but  everyone  may  have  the 
privilege  of  following  him. 

Once  President  McKay  said  to  me  and 
a  few  others:  "Come — follow  me."  That 
invitation  came  one  summer  evening 
several  weeks  after  a  thief  or  thieves 
had  broken  into  his  stable  and  stolen 
his  saddles.  Stake  presidents  in  the 
Ogden  [Utah]  area,  aware  of  his  loss, 
purchased  a  fine  saddle,  and  we  had  just 
presented  it  to  him  that  lovely  evening 
at  his  Huntsville  home. 

"Put  it  in  the  trunk  of  my  car,"  he 
said,  and  motioning  with  his  hand  he 
bade  us,  "Come — follow  me." 

In  our  several  cars  we  followed  his 
car  across  town  and  beyond  to  a  pas- 
ture gate.  On  the  way  and  all  the  way 
his  words,  "Come — follow  me,"  rode 
with  me  in  my  mind,  exciting  me,  chal- 
lenging me,  finally  provoking  me  to 
make  a  resolution  which  I  sincerely 
pray  I  may  have  the  courage  to  keep.  I 
give  it  to  you  in  earnest,  simple  rhyme, 
and  challenge  you  to  follow  suit: 


Follow  him  I  will, 

All  the  way; 
And  to  wearied  souls, 

Along  my  way, 
Take  opportunity  each 

Day  to  say: 
He  is  God's  prophet — 

David  O.  McKay. 

President  McKay  opened  the  pasture 
gate,  entered  alone,  and  closed  the  gate. 
He  asked  us  to  stand  quietly  back  a 
few  paces.  There  was  neither  sight  nor 
sound  of  pastured  animals — brush  ob- 
scured our  view.  Advancing  a  few 
paces,  he  raised  his  voice  and  called: 
"Sonny  Boy,  Sonny  Boy."  For  moments 
there  was  silence,  and  in  that  silence 
I  recalled  that  Sonny  Boy  was  a  spirited 
animal — the  men  who  shod  him  had 
warned  that  he  could  give  anyone  a 
bad  time.   He  gave  them  one. 

Faintly  I  soon  heard  the  sound  of 
hoofs  thudding  rapidly  upon  the  sod. 
The  thudding  strengthened,  growing 
louder  and  louder  and  still  louder;  and 
then  suddenly,  two  horses  charged 
around  the  brush,  racing  neck  to  neck 
straight  toward  President  McKay.  I 
held  my  breath,  fearing  that  they  would 
trample  him  before  they  could  check 
their  speed.  Doesn't  he  realize  the 
danger?  He  did;  he  knew  exactly  what 
the  horses  would  do;  he  didn't  even 
budge;  the  experience  was  not  new  to 
him  or  to  the  horses. 

Now  picture  this  in  your  minds: 
President  McKay  with  his  arm  over 
Sonny  Boy's  neck,  both  horses  nuzzling 
him  searchingly — horse  kisses  they  may 
have  been;  I  wouldn't  know — but  this 
I  do  know:  rubbing  noses  is  an  accepted 
mode  of  greeting  down  New  Zealand 


ELDER  WILLIAM  J.  CRITCHLOW,  JR. 


31 


way  among  the  Maoris,  as  President 
McKay  well  knows.  Anyway,  this 
greeting  of  man  and  horse  portrayed 
affection.  I  cannot  deny  it — I  beheld  it. 
I  also  beheld  the  President  sweeten  the 
greeting  with  sugar  lumps  from  his 
pocket.  The  horses  liked  the  sugar.  I 
think  they  liked  the  President.  I  am 
very  sure  the  President  loved  his  horses. 
His  arm  around  the  neck  of  Sonny  Boy 
was  not  intended  as  a  show  of  affection; 
it  half  concealed  a  rope  which  he  deftly 
circled  around  the  neck  to  make  the 
horse  captive.  Sonny  Boy  did  not  seem 
to  mind — not  much.  He  took  the  bit, 
gently,  and  made  no  fuss  about  the 
saddle.  The  President  tightened  the 
new  cinches,  lengthened  the  stirrups; 
then  mounting  without  assistance,  he 
prodded  the  horse  into  a  trot  which 
broke  into  a  gallop  as  they  disappeared, 
about  as  the  horses  came,  around  the 
brush  and  out  of  sight. 

Two  thousand  years  ago,  one  greater 
than  a  prophet  said:  "Come,  follow  me." 
(See  Matt.  4:19.)  And  men  left  their 
nets;  some  left  their  ships;  and  some 
their  work  to  follow  him.  Two  had 
other  things  to  do;  one  had  a  father 
to  bury,  the  other  had  to  bid  his  house- 
hold farewell.  To  the  latter,  the  Master 
said:  "No  man,  having  put  his  hand 
to  the  plough,  and  looking  back,  is  fit 
for  the  kingdom  of  God."  (Luke 
9:61-62.) 

Men  of  the  priesthood  have  set  their 
hands  to  the  plough.  Many,  however, 
have  looked  back;  they  had  other  things 
to  do — habits,  perhaps,  to  bury;  appe- 
tites, maybe,  to  say  farewell  to.  There- 
fore it  was  written:  ".  .  .  many  are 
called,  but  few  are  chosen."  (D&C 
121:40.) 

He  who  said,  "Come,  follow  me," 
two  thousand  years  ago  is  a  busy  man. 
Worlds  without  number  has  he  created, 
and  by  him  and  through  him  were  they 
created.  He  must  be  a  very  busy  man. 
He  has  placed  his  kingdom  here  on 
earth  in  the  hands  of  his  officers,  those 
who  hold  the  priesthood — and  the  king- 
dom is  no  stronger  than  its  priesthood 
officers.  No  officer — "No  man  taketh 
this  honour  unto  himself,  but  he  that 
is  called  of  God,  as  was  Aaron."  (Heb. 
5:4.)   No  man  taketh  any  office  in  the 


kingdom  until  he  is  called.  Since  priest- 
hood is  authority  to  act — even  to  call — 
for  God,  every  call  by  those  in  authority 
to  call  is  tantamount  to  a  call  from  him 
who  said,  "Come,  follow  me."  "By  me 
or  by  my  word  .  .  .  through  him  whom 
I  have  anointed  and  appointed  to  this 
power"  it  is  the  same.  "Mine  house  is 
a  house  of  order,  saith  the  Lord  God." 

Once  I  sat  at  a  banquet  among  men — 
businessmen,  industry  men,  professional 
men,  and  others — 462  of  them — Mor- 
mons, Jews,  and  gentiles.  The  occasion 
was  a  testimonial  to  President  McKay. 
These  men  were  there  expressly  to  honor 
him.  One  of  them,  not  of  our  faith, 
speaking  for  the  group,  said  in  part 
about  President  McKay: 

"We  see  every  day  his  talent  for 
harmonizing  diversities  and  the  inspired 
leadership  which  brings  and  secures  en- 
richment from  varied  cultural  sources 
as  he  has  brought  them  together 
from  every  people,  every  land,  every 
generation.  .  .  . 

"We  have  gathered  that  we  might 
have  opportunity  to  give  full  expression 
to  the  respect,  to  the  affection,  to  indeed 
the  love  and  gratitude  that  we  have  for 
him.  .  .  . 

"Our  gift  to  President  McKay  is  an 
organ  to  be  installed  in  a  chapel  which 
has  been  built  in  Wales  to  honor  his 
mother,  Jeanette  Evans  McKay."  (Joseph 
Rosenblatt,  The  Improvement  Era,  66 
[Feb.  1963]  111.) 

In  accepting  the  gift,  President  McKay 
said: 

"I  sincerely  wish  I  were  more  worthy 
of  the  honor  you  have  bestowed  upon 
me;  and  in  wishing  to  be  worthy  of  your 
esteem,  I  find  myself  in  accord  with 
Portia's  feelings  ...  as  she  said: 

'You  see  me,  Lord  Bassonio,  where  I 
stand, 

Such  as  I  am;  though  for  myself  alone, 
I  would  not  be  ambitious  in  my  wish, 
To  wish  myself  much  better;  yet  for 
you, 

I  would  be  trebled  twenty  times  myself; 
A  thousand  times  more  fair,  ten  thou- 
sand times 
More  rich; 

That  only  to  stand  high  in  your  account, 


I 


32  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  April  5 

I  might  in  virtues,  beauties,  livings, 

friends 
Exceed  account.' 

(Merchant  of  Venice,  Act  III,  Scene  1.) 

"...  So  as  I  receive  this  tribute  from 
you,  my  friends,  I  say  with  sincerity  in 
my  heart:  For  you  I  would  be  'trebled 
twenty  times  myself,'  would  be  many 
times  more  capable  to  serve  you." 
(Ibid.,  66  [Feb.  1963]  112.) 

And  by  that  "you,"  he  meant  you  and 
you — and  all  of  you  out  there  listen- 
ing in. 

As  he  stood  there,  pouring  out  his 
heart,  the  challenging  words  of  the 
poet,  Josiah  G.  Holland,  poured  into 
my  mind: 

"God  give  us  men!   A  time  like  this 
demands 

Strong  minds,  great  hearts,  true  faith 
and  ready  hands;  .  .  . 

Tall  men,  sun-crowned,  who  live  above 
the  fog.  .  .  ." 

—"God  Give  Us  Men" 

Employing  some  of  the  poets  own 
words,  without  giving  them  breath  or 
tongue,  I  accept  his  challenge.  That 
night  my  acceptance  poured  silently 
from  my  heart.  Right  now,  I  give  it 
vocal  status: 

There  is  your  man.    A  time  like  this 
demands 

His  strong  mind,  his  great  heart,  his 
true  faith  and  his  ready  hand. 

A  tall  man,  sun-crowned,  he  lives  above 
the  fog. 

Cultured,  learned,  august,  affable,  and 
kind, 

Handsome,  too;  God  blessed  him  with  a 

brilliant  mind; 
A  spark  of  divinity  glows  brightly  in  his 

regal  soul; 
Help  me,  dear  Lord,  to  follow  him  to  his 

celestial  goal. 

And  to  people— all  along  the  way, 
Grant  me  opportunity — each  day  to  say: 
He  is  God's  prophet — David  O.  McKay. 

Only  one  mortal  man  at  a  time  is 
privileged  to  hold  all  of  the  priesthood 
keys  pertaining  to  the  kingdom  of  God. 


First  Day 

The  President  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  that  man. 

".  .  .  and  there  is  never  but  one  on 
the  earth  at  a  time  on  whom  this  power 
and  the  keys  of  this  priesthood  are  con- 
ferred." (D&C  132:7.)  President  David 
O.  McKay  is  that  man. 

President  McKay  likes  a  spirited 
horse.  He  also  likes  a  spirited  man — a 
man  with  spirit  enough  to  accept  calls 
to  duty — spirited  enough  to  "learn  his 
duty,  and  to  act  in  the  office  in  which 
he  is  appointed,  in  all  diligence." 
(Ibid.,  107:99.) 

President  McKay  loves  youth.  Here 
is  the  evidence.  Listen,  he  speaks  to 
youth: 

"I  wish  I  could  say  to  every  young 
man  in  the  Church,  that  if  you  would 
be  successful,  if  you  would  be  happy,  if 
you  would  conserve  your  strength,  intel- 
lectual, physical,  and  spiritual,  you  will 
resist  temptation  to  indulge  your  appe- 
tites and  your  passions."  (Gospel  Ideals.) 

"Each  of  us  is  the  architect  of  his 
own  fate,  and  he  is  unfortunate  indeed 
who  will  try  to  build  himself  without 
realizing  that  he  grows  from  within, 
not  without." 

"Thoughts  make  us  what  we  are.  As 
definitely  and  surely  as  the  weaver 
shapes  his  flowers  and  figures  out  of 
the  warp  and  woof  of  his  loom,  so  every 
moment  the  shuttle  of  thought  moves 
back  and  forth  forming  character  and 
even  shaping  the  lineaments  of  our  fea- 
tures. Thoughts  lift  your  soul  heaven- 
ward, or  drag  you  toward  hell." 
(Secrets  of  a  Happy  Life.) 

"What  you  think  about  when  you  do 
not  have  to  think  shows  what  you 
really  are." 

"Clean  and  wholesome  bodies  bring 
joy;  debauch  them,  and  we  lose  hap- 
piness." 

"Be  true  to  those  who  trust  you." 

"Do  your  best  this  hour,  and  you  will 
do  better  the  next." 

"True  friends  enrich  life.  If  you  would 
have  friends,  be  one." 

"He  is  a  slave  who  will  be  led  by 
his  appetites." 

"We  should  put  forth  every  effort  to 
supplant  the  aristocracy  of  wealth  with 
the  aristocracy  of  character  and  to 
awaken  in  the  minds  of  the  youth  a 
realization  that  to  be  honest,  to  be  de- 


« 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


33 


pendable,  to  be  a  loyal  citizen  of  the 
country,  to  be  true  to  the  standards  of 
the  gospel  are  the  noblest  ideals  of 
life."  (Gospel  Ideals.) 

"I  am  not  one  of  those  who  believe 
that  you  have  to  be  long-faced  and 
pious  in  order  to  worship.  Happiness 
should  come  to  us  if  there  is  joy  in  our 
souls,  for  that  is  the  source  of  happiness. 
This  joy  of  living  is  radiated  to  others. 
Every  person  radiates  what  he  is.  That 
radiation  comes  from  what  he  really  is, 
not  from  what  he  may  pretend  to  be. 
No  person  can  escape  that  radiation.  To 
live  is  to  radiate;  to  live  is  to  be  the 
recipient  of  radiation." 

"Lay  the  foundation  of  a  happy  home 
in  your  pre-marital  life." 

"The  seeds  of  a  happy  married  life 
are  sown  in  youth.  Happiness  does  not 
begin  at  the  altar;  it  begins  during  the 
period  of  youth  and  courtship.  Self- 
mastery  during  youth  is  first,  the  source 
of  virile  manhood;  second,  the  crown  of 
beautiful  womanhood;  third,  the  foun- 
dation of  a  happy  home;  and  fourth, 
the  contributing  factor  to  the  strength 
and  perpetuity  of  the  race."  (Secrets  of 
a  Happy  Life.) 

"Choose  your  mate  by  judgment  and 
inspiration  as  well  as  by  emotions." 

"The  highest  ideal  for  our  young  girls 
today,  as  for  our  mothers  who  crossed 
the  plains,  is  love  as  it  may  be  expressed 
in  marriage  and  home  building,  and  this 
virtue  in  which  love  finds  true  expres- 
sion is  based  upon  the  spiritual  and  not 
the  physical  side  of  our  being."  (Gospel 
Ideals.) 

"Too  many  couples  come  to  the 
marriage  altar  looking  upon  the  cere- 
mony as  the  end  of  courtship.  They 
should  not  forget  that  under  the  burdens 


of  home  life,  tender  words  of  apprecia- 
tion and  courteous  acts  are  even  more 
appreciated  than  during  the  courtship. 
It  is  after  the  ceremony,  and  during  the 
trials  that  daily  arise  in  the  home,  that 
a  word  of  'thank  you,'  'pardon  me,'  'if 
you  please,'  contributes  to  the  perpetua- 
tion of  that  love  which  brought  them  to 
the  altar."  (Secrets  of  a  Happy  Life.) 

The  speaking  time  allotted  me  is 
pressuring  me  to  stop  talking.  Too 
briefly  has  it  offered  me  the  privilege 
of  sampling  our  President's  love  and 
interest  in  youth.  Let  me  conclude  with 
a  sample  of  my  own  love  and  esteem 
for  this  great  man: 

All  that  I've  said  and  read — he  is,  and 
more, 

— A  guided  man. 

Much  more  than  guided  missiles,  the 
world  needs 

— A  guided  man. 

That  he  is — call  him  then  for  what  he  is, 
— A  prophet — God's  prophet. 

I  love  him,  and  I  believe — I  know 
that  he  is  a  prophet  of  God;  that  he 
holds  all  the  priesthood  keys,  rights, 
powers,  and  authority  which  were  con- 
ferred upon  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
and  upon  his  successors  right  down  to 
and  including  President  McKay. 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr.,  As- 
sistant to  the  Twelve,  an  Ogden  boy. 
Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley,  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us. 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brothers  and  sisters,  in  all  humility 
I  would  like  to  say  amen  to  the  very 
wonderful  tribute  paid  to  our  beloved 
President,  David  O.  McKay,  by  Elder 
Critchlow. 

I  would  be  most  ungrateful  if  I 
failed  to  take  just  a  moment  to  express 
my  sincere  thanks  and  gratitude  for 


your  prayers  in  my  behalf  during  my 
illness  and  convalescence.  I  know  your 
prayers  have  been  heard  because  I 
am  with  you  today.  The  Lord  has 
blessed  me.  My  strength  and  health 
are  returning. 

As  an  introduction  to  my  talk,  I  feel 
to  quote  from  the  teachings  of  Jacob, 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  5 

the  brother  of  Nephi,  to  the  Nephites 
concerning  their  sins  and  transgression 
of  God's  commandments.  This  man  of 
God  stated  his  responsibility  to  them 
as  a  teacher  and  expressed  the  anxiety 
he  had  for  the  welfare  of  their  souls. 
He  appealed  to  them  thus: 

"But  behold,  my  brethren,  is  it  ex- 
pedient that  I  should  awake  you  to  an 
awful  reality  of  these  things? 

".  .  .  ye  look  upon  me  as  a  teacher, 
it  must  needs  be  expedient  that  I  teach 
you  the  consequences  of  sin. 

"And  also  it  grieveth  me  that  I  must 
use  so  much  boldness  of  speech  con- 
cerning you,  before  your  wives  and  your 
children,  many  of  whose  feelings  are 
exceedingly  tender  and  chaste  and 
delicate  before  God,  which  thing  is 
pleasing  unto  God; 

"...  I  know  that  the  words  of  truth 
are  hard  against  all  uncleanness;  but 
the  righteous  fear  them  not,  for  they 
love  the  truth  and  are  not  shaken." 
(2  Nephi  9:47-48;  Jacob  2:7;  2  Nephi 
9:40.) 

The  serious,  distressing  problems  al- 
ways difficult  for  brethren  in  presiding 
positions  to  deal  with  are  the  immor- 
ality cases  which  involve  youth;  the 
older  unmarried  and  the  married;  the 
broken  homes;  the  dissolution  of  family 
ties  which  separate  parents  and  chil- 
dren. The  sorrow,  frustration,  and  un- 
happiness  of  such  tragic  mistakes  serves 
to  upset  the  lives,  both  psychologically 
and  spiritually,  of  the  innocent  victims 
of  such  unfortunate  violation  of 
God's  laws. 

Far  too  many  broken  homes  result 
from  early  forced  marriages,  unfaithful- 
ness, and  incompatibility,  the  failure  of 
men  and  women  to  abide  by  the  vows 
of  the  marriage  covenant,  yielding  to 
the  weaknesses  of  the  flesh,  forsaking 
the  principles  of  righteousness,  ignor- 
ing family  prayers,  and  the  guiding 
influence  of  the  Holy  Ghost  in 
their  lives. 

When  the  light  of  the  Spirit,  because 
of  transgression  and  hardness  of  heart, 
departs  from  the  soul  of  the  trans- 
gressor, he  is  left  to  himself  to  grope 
through  the  darkness  of  temptation  and 
evil.  Therefore,  he  does  not  reason 
righteously    nor     act     according  to 


First  Day 

principles  of  honesty,  truthfulness,  or 
morality. 

Solomon  expressed  these  two  sig- 
nificant proverbs:  "As  righteousness 
tendeth  to  life:  so  he  that  pursueth 
evil  pursueth  it  to  his  own  death." 
(Prov.  11:19.) 

"Every  way  of  a  man  is  right  in  his 
own  eyes":  (Ibid.,  21:2.) 

The  sinner  is  prone  to  rationalize  and 
to  justify  his  acts  of  transgression.  He 
frequently  stands  upon  what  he  loosely 
calls  "extenuating  circumstances"  which 
are  but  weak  excuses  for  his  sinful  acts. 

Again  this  wise  man  said:  "When 
thou  vowest  a  vow  unto  God,  defer  not 
to  pay  it;  for  he  hath  no  pleasure  in 
fools:  .  .  ."  (Eccl.  5:4.) 

Every  member  of  this  Church  is  duty 
bound  to  keep  sacred  and  honorably 
fulfil  every  requirement  and  condition 
of  his  vows  to  his  God;  otherwise,  the 
Lord  will  not  have  pleasure  in  him  nor 
will  his  mercies  be  extended  upon  him. 

It  isn't  too  difficult  for  a  sinful  man 
and  woman  to  seek  forgiveness  after  they 
take  what  he  and  she  want — even 
though  they  may  be  guilty  of  breaking 
up  two  homes  by  their  transgressions, 
causing  separation  of  families,  forsaking 
children  and  leaving  them  destitute  of 
love  and  care,  also  shirking  their  per- 
sonal responsibilities  to  loved  ones  for 
others  to  fulfil. 

To  take  another  man's  wife  or  an- 
other woman's  husband  is  stealing  in  its 
most  ignoble  form. 

The  great  lawgiver,  Moses,  on  Mount 
Sinai  received  these  specific  command- 
ments from  the  Lord  concerning  man's 
obligation  and  regard  for  the  welfare 
and  happiness  of  others: 

"Thou  shalt  not  steal.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  Thou  shalt  not  covet  thy  neigh- 
bour's wife,  .  .  . 

"Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery." 
(Ex.  20:15,  17,  14.) 

Even  the  simple  can  understand  these 
plainly  stated  laws,  and  in  the  light  of 
this  knowledge,  those  who  know  and 
transgress  the  law,  stand  condemned  be- 
fore the  Lord. 

In  this  last  dispensation  the  Lord  is 
just  as  emphatic,  warning  the  Saints 
against  such  sins.   He  commanded: 

"Thou  shalt  not  steal;  .  .  . 

"Thou  shalt  love  thy  wife  with  all  thy 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


35 


heart,  and  shalt  cleave  unto  her  and 
none  else. 

"Thou  shall  not  commit  adultery;  and 
he  that  committeth  adultery,  and  re- 
penteth  not,  shall  be  cast  out." 
(D&C  42:20,  22,  24.) 

These  commandments  also  are  very 
clear,  forthright,  and  understandable. 
What  applies  to  the  man  cleaving  unto 
his  wife  and  none  else  applies  with 
equal  force  also  to  the  wife  for  her 
husband.  There  is  no  double  standard 
in  the  Church.  Both  man  and  woman 
are  responsible  for  their  personal  acts. 

I  often  wonder  why  a  man  or  a 
woman  will  give  up  wife  or  husband 
and  children  for  an  adulterous  relation- 
ship. When  sin  is  the  foundation  of 
the  marriage  relationship,  the  chance  of 
a  secure  and  happy  companionship  is 
very  remote.  Surely  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord,  neither  God's  laws  to  man,  sanc- 
tion such  behavior,  nor  can  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord  be  expected  upon  such 
a  union. 

It  is  difficult  to  understand  how 
church  members  who  know  these  com- 
mandments can  cast  aside  such  knowl- 
edge and  yield  to  the  lusts  of  the  flesh. 
Small  violations  lead  to  more  serious 
and  devastating  sins.  Those  who  play 
with  fire,  ultimately,  if  they  persist,  will 
be  burned. 

Solomon  wisely  taught  this  truth: 

"Can  a  man  take  fire  in  his  bosom, 
and  his  clothes  not  be  burned?  .  .  . 

"So  he  that  goeth  into  his  neigh- 
bour's wife;  whosoever  toucheth  her 
shall  not  be  innocent.  .  .  . 

"But  whoso  committeth  adultery  with 
a  woman  lacketh  understanding:  he  that 
doeth  it  destroyeth  his  own  soul." 
(Prov.  6:27,  29,  32.) 

Yielding  to  the  illicit  enticements  of 
the  flesh  is  the  basest  of  human  in- 
stincts, also  the  cause  of  much  sorrow, 
unhappiness,  and  the  loss  of  the  clean 
inward  feeling  of  peace  men  should 
strive  to  obtain.  Those  who  sin  deny 
their  God  and  accept  Satan,  the  author 
and  the  father  of  all  sin. 

Abinadi,  the  Nephite  prophet,  cau- 
tioned: "But  remember  that  he  that 
persists  in  his  own  carnal  nature,  and 
goes  on  in  the  ways  of  sin  and  rebellion 
against  God,  remaineth  in  his  fallen 


state  and  the  devil  hath  all  power  over 
him  "  (Mosiah  16:5.) 

Nephi  reasoned:  "And  why  should  I 
yield  to  sin,  because  of  my  flesh?  Yea, 
why  should  I  give  way  to  temptations, 
that  the  evil  one  have  place  in  my  heart 
to  destroy  my  peace  and  afflict  my 
soul?  .  .  ."  (2  Nephi  4:27.) 

The  Apostle  Paul,  writing  to  the 
Roman  Saints,  counseled:  "Let  not  sin 
therefore  reign  in  your  mortal  body, 
that  ye  should  obey  it  in  the  lusts 
thereof. 

"Neither  yield  ye  your  members  as 
instruments  of  unrighteousness  unto 
sin:  but  yield  yourselves  unto  God,  as 
those  that  are  alive  from  the  dead,  and 
your  members  as  instruments  of  right- 
eousness unto  God. 

"Know  ye  not,  that  to  whom  ye  yield 
yourselves  servants  to  obey,  his  servants 
ye  are  to  whom  ye  obey;  whether  of  sin 
unto  death,  or  of  obedience  unto  right- 
eousness?" (Rom.  6:12-13,  16.) 

Writing  to  the  Corinthians  he  said: 
"Know  ye  not  that  the  unrighteous 
shall  not  inherit  the  kingdom  of  God? 
Be  not  deceived:  neither  fornicators,  nor 
idolaters,  nor  adulterers,  nor  effeminate, 
nor  abusers  of  themselves  with  mankind, 

".  .  .  shall  inherit  the  kingdom  of 
God  

".  .  .  Now  the  body  is  not  for  fornica- 
tion, but  for  the  Lord;  and  the  Lord 
for  the  body.  .  .  . 

"Know  ye  not  that  your  bodies  are 
the  members  of  Christ?  shall  I  then 
take  the  members  of  Christ,  and  make 
them  the  members  of  an  harlot?  God 
forbid.  .  .  . 

"Flee  fornication.  Every  sin  that  a 
man  doeth  is  without  the  body;  but  he 
that  committeth  fornication  sinneth 
against  his  own  body."  (1  Cor.  6:9-10, 
13,  15,  18.) 

While  I  am  convinced  conditions  in 
these  matters  among  us  are  much  less 
than  in  the  world,  from  what  I  have 
observed  and  know,  they  are  not  good 
enough.  We  are  not  free  of  these 
despicable  sins;  and  Satan,  recognizing 
the  weaknesses  of  the  flesh,  is  vigor- 
ously attacking  the  weakened  armor 
in  our  defenses  and  far  too  many  are 
yielding  to  his  enticements  to  error 
and  sin. 

The  Apostle  Paul  understood  this 


36 

Friday,  April  5 

weakness  of  man  and,  writing  to  the 
Ephesians  Saints,  he  admonished:  "Fi- 
nally, my  brethren,  be  strong  in  the 
Lord,  and  in  the  power  of  his  might. 

"Put  on  the  whole  armour  of  God, 
that  ye  may  be  able  to  stand  against 
the  wiles  of  the  devil."  (Eph.  6:10-11.) 

Our  beloved  President  David  O. 
McKay  has  always  taught  members  of 
the  Church  to  practise  self-restraint  and 
self-mastery,  not  permitting  themselves 
to  fall  to  the  level  of  the  animal 
kingdom. 

We  cannot  afford,  as  children  of  God, 
in  whose  presence  we  someday  hope  to 
be,  to  toss  overboard  the  God-given 
principles  of  morality  and  make  our 
bodies  instruments  of  unrighteousness 
by  yielding  to  the  gratification  of  bodily 
desires.  God  will  not  hold  guiltless 
those  who  succumb  to  such  sins  and 
forsake  his  laws  and  also  abdicate  re- 
sponsibility to  loved  ones. 

"For  of  him,"  said  the  Lord  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  "unto  whom 
much  is  given  much  is  required;  and  he 
who  sins  against  the  greater  light  shall 
receive  the  greater  condemnation." 
(D&C  82:3.) 

An  individual  who  sins,  and  because 
of  his  transgression  loses  his  church 
membership,  has  sacrificed  privileges 
and  opportunities  for  blessings  which 
may  be  difficult  to  regain.  The  excom- 
municated members,  nevertheless,  look 
for  and  hopefully  expect  an  early  rein- 
statement to  church  membership  and  a 
restoration  of  former  blessings;  but  they 
fail  to  realize  or  understand  that  the 
road  back  into  church  fellowship  with 
its  privileges  and  opportunities  for 
blessings  is  long,  lonely,  and  exacting. 

The  question  is  often  asked  by  those 
in  transgression,  whose  sins  are  so 
serious  that  it  is  almost  impossible  for 
them  to  make  proper  amends,  if  the 
Church  does  not  believe  in  forgiveness. 
The  answer,  of  course,  is:  The  Church 
does  believe  in  the  principle  of  forgive- 
ness to  those  who  repent  of  their  sins, 
confess,  and  forsake  them;  and  who  can 
also  make  restitution  to  loved  ones 
whose  lives  have  been  upset  and  their 
future  livelihood  and  rightful  oppor- 
tunities jeopardized. 

They  also  refer  to  the  woman  taken 
in  adultery  and  ask:  "Did  not  Jesus 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

forgive  the  woman  brought  to  him  ac- 
cused of  adultery?"  When  the  accusers 
challenged  by  the  Christ  departed  with- 
out condemning  her,  Jesus  said  unto 
her,  ".  .  .  Neither  do  I  condemn  thee: 
go,  and  sin  no  more."  (John  8:11.)  The 
Savior  did  not  forgive  neither  did  he 
condemn  her,  but  in  admonishing  her 
to  go  and  sin  no  more,  he,  in  effect, 
was  asking  her  to  show  forth  the  fruits 
of  repentance  which  would  lead  to 
forgiveness. 

The  Lord  has  commanded  in  this 
latter-day:  "Thou  shalt  not  commit 
adultery;  and  he  that  committeth 
adultery,  and  repenteth  not,  shall  be 
cast  out. 

"But  he  that  has  committed  adultery 
and  repents  with  all  his  heart,  and  for- 
saketh  it,  and  doeth  it  no  more,  thou 
shalt  forgive; 

"But  if  he  doeth  it  again,  he  shall  not 
be  forgiven,  but  shall  be  cast  out." 
(D&C  42:24-26.) 

This  revelation  does  not  allow  repeti- 
tive sinning  with  the  expectation  of 
forgiveness  to  the  transgressor. 

Again  the  Lord  admonished  and 
warned  the  Saints:  ".  .  .  go  your  ways 
and  sin  no  more;  but  unto  that  soul 
who  sinneth  shall  the  former  sins  re- 
turn, saith  the  Lord  your  God." 
(Ibid.,  82:7.) 

"For  I  the  Lord  cannot  look  upon  sin 
with  the  least  degree  of  allowance; 

"Nevertheless,  he  that  repents  and 
does  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
shall  be  forgiven; 

"And  he  that  repents  not,  from  him 
shall  be  taken  even  the  light  which  he 
has  received;  for  my  Spirit  shall  not 
always  strive  with  man,  saith  the  Lord 
of  Hosts."  (Ibid.,  1:31-33.) 

There  are  penalties  for  violating  the 
laws  of  God.  The  way  of  the  trans- 
gressor was  never  easy.  The  wages  of 
sin  is  death,  taught  the  prophets.  (See 
Rom.  6:23.)  Mercy  cannot  rob  justice. 
(See  Alma  42:25.)  The  Lord  expects 
his  servants  to  mete  out  justice  and 
judgment  according  to  the  laws  and 
commandments  given  to  the  Church. 

Adultery,  fornication,  unnatural  and 
deviate  practices  are  the  most  repulsive 
and  reprehensible  of  sins  which  exact 
the  penalties  imposed  by  a  just  God 
upon  the  transgressor. 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


37 


The  members  of  our  body  war  against 
each  other,  and  if  the  spirit  of  man  does 
not  control  the  physical  urges  and 
acquire  self-restraint  and  self-mastery, 
one  of  the  tragedies  of  indulgent  prac- 
tices is  the  defilement  and  dishonor  of 
the  body  which  houses  a  spirit  child 
of  God.  The  body  of  flesh  and  bone 
is  also  the  eternal  tabernacle  of  the 
spirit.  Each  of  us  must  decide  what 
kind  of  house  we  want  to  live  in  eter- 
nally and  then  chart  and  abide  the 
course  which  will  lead  to  it. 

One  of  the  important  elements  of 
true  repentance  is  to  make  restitution  to 
those  who  have  been  injured  or  hurt 
by  one's  derelict  actions. 

It  isn't  always  possible  for  the  trans- 
gressor to  make  proper  restitution  to 
those  hurt  or  injured  by  his  acts.  One 
cannot,  for  example,  restore  virtue 
when  it  is  lost.  One  cannot  restore  a 
husband  or  a  wife  acquired  by  breaking 
up  a  home  and  give  him  or  her  back 
to  his  or  her  former  spouse.  There  are 
many  other  complicated  conditions  and 
situations  too  numerous  to  spell  out  in 
this  brief  talk  which  make  restitution 
difficult  to  satisfy. 

There  are  cases  where  partial  amends 
can  be  made  sufficiently  to  justify  re- 
baptism  to  the  excommunicated,  a 
return  to  fellowship,  and  under  certain 
conditions  restoration  of  former  bless- 
ings lost.  All,  however,  depends  upon 
complete  repentance,  proper  restitution, 
and  manifesting  faithfulness  through 
living  the  truths,  principles,  and  stand- 
ards of  the  gospel. 

A  light  tap  on  the  wrist  to  those 
guilty  of  serious  sins  does  not  satisfy 
justice  nor  does  it  serve  as  a  brake  or  a 
deterrent  to  others  who  may  be  tempted 
to  violate  the  moral  law.  When  trans- 
gressors are  dealt  with  too  gently,  peo- 
ple sense  an  apparent  easing  in  main- 
taining gospel  standards;  therefore,  the 
bars  of  morality  may  be  lowered.  For 
aberrant  members  of  the  Church  to 
lose  its  privileges  and  blessings  may 
cause  them  to  appreciate  more  what 
they  have  lost.  The  feeling  of  alone- 
ness  and  of  not  belonging  stirs  them  to 
repentance  and  increased  faithfulness. 

Now,  I  have  been  speaking  mostly 
concerning  the  tragedies  and  the  un- 
happiness  of  broken  homes.    I  am  not 


unmindful  of  the  serious  follies  of  youth 
and  the  unmarried,  but  what  I  have 
said  constitutes  counsel  and  a  warning 
to  them  also:  counsel  to  live  clean, 
treasure  virtue,  keep  the  standards  of 
the  gospel,  love  the  Lord  and  keep  his 
commandments;  also  to  pray  earnestly 
for  strength  to  resist  all  evil  and  through 
humility  seek  the  companionship  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  as  a  guide  in  the  ways  of 
righteousness.  A  warning  to  avoid 
compromising  ideals  and  standards,  not 
to  permit  the  body  to  be  used  as  an 
instrument  of  sin,  but  as  an  instrument 
of  righteousness  unto  God. 

Alma,  the  Nephite  prophet,  taught: 
"And  he  doth  not  dwell  in  unholy  tem- 
ples; neither  can  filthiness  or  anything 
which  is  unclean  be  received  into  the 
kingdom  of  God;  therefore  I  say  unto 
you  the  time  shall  come,  yea,  and  it 
shall  be  at  the  last  day,  that  he  who  is 
filthy  shall  remain  in  his  filthiness." 
(Alma  7:21.) 

As  a  servant  of  God  concerned  about 
the  welfare  of  souls,  I  have  spoken  to  you 
about  the  consequences  of  sin.  It  is  not 
my  purpose  to  be  negative  and  only  dwell 
upon  judgments  and  penalties,  but  rather 
to  admonish  all  people  to  be  true  to 
gospel  standards  and  ideals  and  to  forsake 
sin  and  thus  avoid  its  consequences. 

I  fully  understand  and  am  not  un- 
mindful of  scriptural  teachings  con- 
cerning repentance  and  forgiveness. 
Forgiveness  here  in  mortality,  as  far 
as  it  is  within  the  power  of  men  to  for- 
give, may  not  fully  satisfy  the  law  of 
justice  required  by  the  heavenly  judges 
above.  It  does  place  the  repentant 
sinner,  however,  in  the  right  way;  and 
when  the  penalty  for  the  broken  law  is 
paid,  he  will  receive  forgiveness  and 
obtain  pardon  from  the  Righteous  Judge 
of  all.  This  principle  is  taught  by  the 
Savior  in  his  Sermon  on  the  Mount. 
Referring  to  those  who  are  cast  into 
prison  he  declared:  ".  .  .  Thou  shalt  by 
no  means  come  out  thence,  till  thou 
hast  paid  the  uttermost  farthing." 
(Matt.  5:26.) 

This  statement  of  our  Lord,  which  is 
associated  with  his  teachings  on  moral 
and  behavior  patterns,  affirms  that  those 
who  are  guilty  of  serious  sins  after 
receiving  a  knowledge  of  God's  com- 
mandments shall  be  cast  into  prison 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


38 

Friday,  April  5 

until  they  pay  the  uttermost  farthing 
for  their  sins. 

The  Savior  revealed  unto  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  that  those  who  enter  into 
the  new  and  everlasting  covenant  of 
marriage  and  then  transgress  that 
covenant,  ".  .  .  shall  be  delivered  unto 
the  buffetings  of  Satan  unto  the  day  of 
redemption,  .  .  ."  (D&C  132:26.) 

To  be  turned  over  to  the  buffetings 
of  Satan  unto  the  day  of  one's  redemp- 
tion is  an  awful  condition  to  contem- 
plate. Such  confinement,  to  satisfy  the 
demands  of  justice,  could  extend  over  a 
long  period  of  time.  The  only  way  to 
escape  such  a  penalty  with  its  torments 
and  sorrows  is  to  serve  the  Lord  faith- 
fully and  keep  his  commandments  from 
youth  until  life's  course  here  on  earth 
is  finished. 

We  need  more  emphasis  in  the 
Church  upon  ideal  Latter-day  Saint 
home  life  where  love,  compatibility, 
harmony,  and  the  sweet  spirit  of  the 
gospel  abide  to  attract  and  hold  youth 
close  to  parents  in  the  home.  The 
proper  teaching  of  children  should  have 
more  emphasis  so  they  will  acquire  early 
in  life  a  love  for  God  and  develop 
respect  for  his  laws  and  thus  cherish 
virtue,  uprightness,  and  honesty  of  pur- 
pose in  their  personal  lives.  The  chil- 
dren are  the  church  teachers  and  its 
leaders  of  tomorrow. 

I  sincerely  hope  that  we  who  are 
leaders  will  understand  that  the  respon- 
sibility of  the  Church  and  its  leadership 
is  to  save  and  bless  people.  Surely  we 
must  extend  to  the  wayward  the  hand 
of  friendship,  exhibit  love,  manifest  in- 
terest, and  do  all  within  our  power  to 
persuade  those  who  have  departed  the 
right  way  to  come  back  into  that 
straight  and  narrow  path  which  leads 
to  life  eternal. 

It  is  equally  important  for  church 
leaders  to  teach  youth  and  all  others 
forthrightly  to  their  understanding  the 
great  moral  concepts  of  the  gospel  and 
create  within  them  the  desires  to  put 
on  the  whole  protective  armor  of  right- 
eousness that  they  may  avoid  serious 
mistakes  and  the  consequences  of  sin. 

I  shall  close  with  a  choice  quotation 
from  the  teachings  of  the  Nephite 
prophet,  Mormon:  "For  behold,  my 
brethren,  it  is  given  unto  you  to  judge, 


First  Day 

that  ye  may  know  good  from  evil;  and 
the  way  to  judge  is  as  plain,  that  ye  may 
know  with  a  perfect  knowledge,  as  the 
daylight  is  from  the  dark  night. 

"For  behold,  the  Spirit  of  Christ  is 
given  to  every  man,  that  he  may  know 
good  from  evil;  wherefore,  I  show  unto 
you  the  way  to  judge;  for  every  thing 
which  inviteth  to  do  good,  and  to  per- 
suade to  believe  in  Christ,  is  sent  forth 
by  the  power  and  gift  of  Christ;  where- 
fore ye  may  know  with  a  perfect  knowl- 
edge it  is  of  God."  (Moroni  7:15-16.) 

I  earnestly  pray,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  that  God  will  give  us  the 
strength  to  faithfully  live  up  to  the 
ideals,  standards,  and  covenants  of 
the  gospel  of  Christ  always,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Logan  Institute  of  Religion  Choir 
will  now  favor  us  with  "Sing  And  Re- 
joice." I  will  say  something  afterwards. 
There  are  people  on  the  air  who  want 
to  hear  this  choir. 

An  anthem,  "Sing  And  Rejoice,"  was 
sung  by  the  Logan  Institute  of  Religion 
Choir. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  was  our  last  speaker, 
and  we  called  on  the  choir  to  sing  out 
of  consideration  for  the  stations  that 
will  change  at  the  hour.  As  heretofore 
announced,  the  singing  for  this  session 
has  been  furnished  by  the  Logan  Insti- 
tute of  Religion  Choir  under  the  direc- 
tion of  James  L.  Bradley,  with  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ.  In  behalf  of  all 
who  have  listened  to  the  singing  in  the 
General  Conference,  the  General  Au- 
thorities, the  audience  here  in  the  Taber- 
nacle, and  the  great  radio  television 
audience,  we  express  appreciation  and 
thanks  to  these  choice  young  students 
for  the  beautiful  music  they  have  ren- 
dered in  these  conference  sessions  to- 
day. With  all  my  heart,  I  say,  'God 
bless  you,  boys  and  girls,'  and  may  this 
day  always  be  a  sweet  memory  to  you 
in  your  lives. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


39 


Tomorrow  morning's  session  will  be 
broadcast  by  18  radio  and  television  sta- 
tions, and  recorded  for  transmission  on 
Sunday  morning  at  10  o'clock  Eastern 
Standard  Time  to  1 19  television  stations 
in  the  eastern  part  of  the  United  States. 
Both  sessions  Saturday  will  be  rebroad- 
cast  over  KSL  Radio  Sunday  morning, 
starting  at  one  o'clock — that  is  Sunday 
morning — and  will  be  heard  in  many 
parts  of  the  United  States  and  in  the 
world,  including  Canada,  Mexico, 
Alaska,  and  the  Islands  of  the  Pacific. 
A  delayed  release  will  also  take  the 
Saturday  morning  session  of  Conference 
to  viewers  in  Australia  and  also  in 
Hawaii  for  the  first  time.  A  video-tape 
will  be  flown  from  the  Mainland  and 
broadcast  Sunday  morning  in  Honolulu. 
Both  sessions  today  will  also  be  re- 
broadcast  over  KSL  Radio  Saturday 
morning,  starting  at  one  o'clock. 

A  special  meeting  under  the  direction 
of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  will  be  held 
in  the  Tabernacle  tonight   at  seven 


o'clock.  Those  requested  to  attend  this 
meeting  include  Stake  Presidents  and 
their  counselors,  and  Bishops  and  their 
counselors.  All  who  want  to  see  an 
interesting  program  should  attend  if 
there  is  room. 

There  will  be  a  Welfare  Agricultural 
Meeting  in  the  Assembly  Hall  tomorrow 
morning,  which  will  be  at  7:30  o'clock. 
Stake  Presidencies,  Bishoprics,  Agricul- 
tural Representatives  from  all  stakes, 
and  all  others  interested  in  agriculture 
are  invited  to  attend  this  meeting. 

Elder  Joseph  R.  Reeder,  formerly 
President  of  the  French  Polynesian  and 
Rarotongan  Missions,  will  offer  the 
benediction. 


The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Joseph  R.  Reeder,  formerly  Presi- 
dent of  the  French  Polynesian  and 
Rarotongan  Missions. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10:00 
a.m.,  Saturday,  April  6. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  third  session  of  the  Conference 
convened  at  10:00  a.m.,  Saturday,  April 
6.  President  David  O.  McKay  pre- 
sided and  conducted  the  services  of 
the  meeting. 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir  fur- 
nished the  choral  music  for  this  session. 
Elder  Richard  P.  Condie  conducted  the 
singing  of  the  Choir.  Alexander 
Schreiner,  Tabernacle  Organist,  was  at 
the  organ. 

President  McKay  made  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

At  the  risk  of  taking  an  extra  minute 
this  morning  I  am  going  to  read  to  you 
the  following  telegram: 

"As  Mayor  of  Los  Angeles  and  on  be- 
half of  its  more  than  two  and  one-half 
million  people  I  convey  to  you  and  your 
Church  members  this  official  expression 
of  our  respect  and  esteem.   Many  South- 


ern Californians  are  in  Salt  Lake  for 
conference  while  many  thousands  more 
will  view  the  Sunday  morning  session 
on  television.  We  are  happy  to  note 
the  Brigham  Young  University  Chorus 
and  Orchestra  will  be  in  the  Southland 
soon.  Such  events  help  to  emphasize 
the  fact  that  members  of  your  Church 
have  made  distinguished  contributions 
to  the  growth  of  this  City  and  California 
ever  since  the  arrival  here  1 16  years  ago 
last  month  of  the  Mormon  Battalion. 
Again,  on  behalf  of  the  people  of  our 
City,  I  am  honored  to  convey  this  ex- 
pression of  our  appreciation  and  high 
regard. — Samuel  William  Yorty,  Mayor." 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  di- 
rection of  Richard  P.  Condie,  with 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ,  will 
open  these  services  by  singing  "Guide 
Us,  O  Thou  Great  Jehovah."  Following 
the  singing,  the  invocation  will  be 
offered  by  Elder  Paul  C.  Child,  formerly 
President  of  the  North  Central  States 
Mission. 


40 

Saturday,  April  6 

The  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "Guide 
Us,  O  Thou  Great  Jehovah,"  following 
which  the  invocation  was  offered  by 
Elder  Paul  C.  Child,  formerly  Presi- 
dent of  the  North  Central  States  Mission. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Brother  Paul  C.  Child,  formerly 
president  of  the  North  Central  States 
Mission,  offered  the  invocation. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing  "The 
Palms."  You  recognize  that  you  are  on 
the  air.  Proceedings  are  being  con- 
ducted on  the  minute  so  the  new  chan- 
nels that  are  coming  in  will  hear  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

beginning  of  each  sermon  and  the  songs. 

We  thank  the  Mayor  of  Los  Angeles, 
members  of  our  own  government,  sena- 
tors, congressmen,  mayors  of  cities,  and 
all  the  visitors  who  have  cooperated  here 
with  us  by  participating  in  this  audience 
of  several  million  people  this  morning. 


An  anthem,  "The  Palms,"  was  sung 
by  the  Choir. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  will  be  our  first  speaker. 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Many  years  ago  someone  published  a 
picture  Bible  in  which  it  was  attempted 
to  make  the  great  scriptural  messages 
more  memorable,  by  presenting  them  in 
visual  form.  Our  natural  tendency  is  to 
see  things  more  clearly  when  they  are 
presented  in  pictures.  Mere  ideas  are 
often  too  abstract  for  the  mind  to  deal 
with  effectively. 

One  of  the  visual  portrayals  in  this 
interesting  Bible  was  a  colored  picture 
of  the  ascension.  It  showed  the  Resur- 
rected Jesus  standing  in  the  air  above 
the  Mount  of  Olives  as  he  was  ascend- 
ing to  his  Father.  And  standing  slightly 
below  the  master  were  two  angels 
dressed  in  white  clothing.  Over  the 
years  I  have  drawn  great  strength  from 
the  thrilling  ideas  represented  by  this 
picture.  Christ's  ascension  to  heaven 
marked  the  end  of  an  important  period. 
He  had  finished  one  part  of  the  work 
assigned  to  him  in  the  grand  council  of 
heaven.  He  had  organized  the  Church 
and  had  left  ordained  apostles  to  carry 
on  its  work.  He  had  taught  them  the 
doctrines  of  salvation  and  had  given 
them  the  priesthood,  with  the  power  to 
bind  in  heaven  what  they  did  on  earth. 
He  had  shed  his  own  blood  to  pay  the 
penalty  of  our  sins.  Then  in  the  last 
words  spoken  just  before  his  ascension, 
Jesus  said  to  the  Twelve  ".  .  .  ye  shall  be 
witnesses  unto  me  both  in  Jerusalem, 
and  in  all  Judea,  and  in  Samaria,  and 


unto  the  uttermost  part  of  the  earth." 
(Acts  1:8.) 

The  ascension  picture  is  completed  by 
the  interesting  scriptural  statement 
which  said,  "And  when  he  had  spoken 
these  things,  while  they  beheld,  he  was 
taken  up;  and  a  cloud  received  him 
out  of  their  sight. 

"And  while  they  looked  stedfastly  to- 
ward heaven  as  he  went  up,  behold,  two 
men  stood  by  them  in  white  apparel; 

"Which  also  said,  Ye  men  of  Galilee, 
why  stand  ye  gazing  up  into  heaven? 
this  same  Jesus,  which  is  taken  up  from 
you  into  heaven,  shall  so  come  in  like 
manner  as  ye  have  seen  him  go  into 
heaven."  (Ibid.,  1:9-11.) 

During  World  War  II,  I  added  an- 
other impressive  mental  picture  to  my 
collection.  This  one  shows  General 
Douglas  MacArthur  about  to  take  flight 
from  Corregidor  under  the  military 
pressure  of  Japanese  conquest.  To  those 
who  were  forced  to  remain  behind,  Gen- 
eral MacArthur  said,  "I  shall  return." 
I  like  to  imagine  the  hope  that  this 
promise  must  have  brought  to  the  peo- 
ple of  the  Philippines  during  those  long 
months  in  which  they  awaited  their 
liberation  from  the  bondage  of  the 
Japanese.  They  knew  that  MacArthur 
would  not  forget.  They  knew  that  just 
as  soon  as  possible  he  would  come  back 
to  set  them  free  and  punish  their  op- 
pressors.   His  promise  may  have  had 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


41 


more  than  ordinary  significance  to  me, 
inasmuch  as  some  of  the  members  of  my 
own  family  were  among  those  awaiting 
MacArthur's  return.  They  hid  in  the 
hills  until  they  were  captured  and  sent 
to  a  Japanese  concentration  camp  in 
Manila. 

The  general's  promise  to  return  must 
have  had  a  disturbing  significance  for 
the  invaders  themselves,  for  they  must 
have  known  that  MacArthur  would 
never  rest  until  they  had  been  driven 
from  the  islands  or  annihilated  during 
their  resistance.  This  "I  shall  return" 
picture  was  given  its  happy  ending  some 
two  years  later  when  the  general's 
promise  was  finally  and  fully  kept. 

However,  the  world  still  awaits  this 
more  significant  "I  shall  return"  prom- 
ise that  had  been  made  some  nineteen 
hundred  years  earlier  from  above  the 
Mount  of  Olives.  It  is  very  important 
to  remember  that  the  Savior  of  the 
world  was  only  bidding  the  earth  and 
its  people  a  temporary  farewell.  Many 
times  before  his  death,  he  himself  had 
foretold  his  own  glorious  second  coming 
to  judge  the  world. 

On  that  last  Tuesday  before  his  death 
on  Friday,  Jesus  had  been  teaching 
his  followers  about  his  second  coming. 
Near  the  end  of  the  day  he  left  the 
temple  and  led  the  Twelve  across  the 
Mount  of  Olives.  As  he  sat  down  to  rest 
near  the  summit,  his  disciples  said  to 
him,  ".  .  .  Tell  us,  when  shall  these 
things  be,  and  what  shall  be  the  sign  of 
thy  coming,  and  the  end  of  the  world?" 
(Matt.  24:3.)  Then  Jesus  told  them  of 
the  wars  and  contentions  that  should 
characterize  the  last  days,  and  as  one  of 
the  important  signs  that  should  precede 
his  second  coming,  he  said,  "And  this 
gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall  be  preached 
in  all  the  world  for  a  witness  unto  all 
nations;  and  then  shall  the  end  come." 
(Ibid.,  24:14.) 

As  the  people  of  the  Philippines 
awaited  their  liberation,  they  probably 
wondered  whether  or  not  General  Mac- 
Arthur  had  the  ability  to  fulfil  the 
conditions  involved  in  his  promise  to 
return.  There  are  also  a  great  many  in 
our  world  who  discount  both  the  possi- 
bility and  the  probability  of  the  second 
coming  of  Christ.  Yet  we  may  be  cer- 
tain that  God's  program  has  never  been 


abandoned  and  will  not  be  forgotten. 

In  those  last  sad  hours  just  prior  to 
his  death,  Jesus  said  to  his  disciples, 
"Let  not  your  heart  be  troubled:  ye 
believe  in  God,  believe  also  in  me. 

"In  my  Father's  house  are  many  man- 
sions: if  it  were  not  so,  I  would  have 
told  you.  I  go  to  prepare  a  place  for 
you. 

"And  if  I  go  and  prepare  a  place  for 
you,  J  will  come  again,  and  receive  you 
unto  myself;  that  where  I  am,  there  ye 
may  be  also."  (John  14:1-3.  Italics 
added.)  What  a  thrilling,  frightening 
thought  when  we  understand  the  condi- 
tions under  which  he  will  come  again. 
And  what  tremendous  consequences  are 
involved  in  the  message  of  ascension 
day.  As  the  Resurrected  Son  of  God 
stood  there  between  the  heavens  and 
the  earth,  holy  angels  from  God's  pres- 
ence made  a  firm  promise,  that  he  would 
personally  return.  The  angels  said, 
".  .  .  this  same  Jesus,  .  .  .  shall  so  come 
in  like  manner  as  ye  have  seen  him 
go. . . ."  (Acts  1:11.) 

Since  ascension  day,  some  nineteen 
wide  centuries  have  come  and  gone, 
and  many  important  events  have  taken 
place.  According  to  tradition  with  one 
exception,  the  apostles  that  Jesus  ap- 
pointed to  carry  on  his  work,  were  all 
subjected  to  violent  deaths.  Peter, 
Philip,  Simon,  and  Andrew  were  cruci- 
fied; James  and  Paul  were  beheaded; 
Bartholomew  was  flayed  alive;  Thomas 
was  run  through  with  a  lance;  James, 
the  son  of  Alphaeus,  was  beaten  to 
death;  Thaddaeus  was  shot  through 
with  arrows;  Barnabas  was  stoned; 
Matthew  was  slain  with  a  battle  axe 
in  Ethiopia;  and  Mark  was  dragged  to 
death  in  the  streets  of  Alexandria.  Then 
John,  the  sole  survivor,  was  banished  to 
the  lonely  isle  of  Patmos  in  the  Aegean 
Sea.  Jesus  had  built  his  Church  upon 
the  foundation  of  apostles  and  prophets. 
When  the  foundation  was  destroyed,  the 
building  crumbled.  In  time  what  had 
once  been  a  divine  organization  became 
merely  a  human  institution.  Many  of 
the  Christian  doctrines  were  misinter- 
preted; the  ordinances  were  changed;  the 
authority  was  lost;  the  apostasy  grew; 
and  the  world  slipped  gradually  into  the 
long  black  night  of  the  Dark  Ages. 


42 

Saturday,  April  6 

Then  some  said  that  the  heavens  were 
forever  sealed,  that  the  canon  of  scrip- 
ture was  full,  and  that  no  voice  from 
God  would  ever  again  be  heard  upon 
the  earth.  The  spirit  of  those  who 
crucified  Christ,  destroyed  his  organiza- 
tion, and  disbelieved  his  doctrines,  still 
have  a  numerous  following  among  us. 

One  of  the  most  serious  problems  of 
our  present  world  is  that  there  are  so 
many  people  who  disbelieve  in  a  Su- 
preme Being.  To  some,  man  is  the 
highest  authority  and  the  greatest 
intelligence  in  the  universe.  Others  be- 
lieve that  God  has  gone  out  of  business 
and  that  the  last  words  that  we  will 
ever  hear  from  the  Savior  of  the  world 
were  spoken  at  the  ninth  hour  of  that 
awful  Friday  afternoon,  when  from 
Calvary's  cross  the  dying  Christ  said, 
"It  is  finished."  The  last  memory  that 
some  have  of  their  Redeemer  pictures 
him  hanging  upon  the  cross.  Recently 
the  world  has  been  flooded  with  the 
crucifix,  but  Jesus  did  not  remain  upon 
the  cross.  Some  remember  him  lying  in 
the  garden  tomb  of  Joseph  of  Arima- 
thaea,  but  Jesus  did  not  remain  in  the 
tomb.  Nothing  in  the  scriptures  could 
be  plainer  than  the  fact  that  the  life 
of  Christ  did  not  begin  in  Bethlehem, 
neither  did  it  end  on  Calvary.  He  said, 
"I  came  forth  from  the  Father,  and  am 
come  into  the  world:  again,  I  leave  the 
world,  and  go  to  the  Father."  (John 
16:28.)  In  his  prayer  in  Gethsemane 
while  contemplating  his  own  death,  he 
said,  "And  now,  O  Father,  glorify  thou 
me  with  thine  own  self  with  the  glory 
which  I  had  with  thee  before  the  world 
was."  (Ibid.,  17:5.) 

Long  before  our  earth  was  created, 
Jesus  lived  and  ruled  with  his  Father 
as  a  part  of  the  presidency  of  the  uni- 
verse. Under  the  direction  of  the 
Father,  he  was  the  Creator  of  the  earth. 
In  the  first  chapter  of  Genesis,  God  is 
recorded  as  saying,  ".  .  .  Let  us  make 
man  in  our  image,  after  our  likeness: 
.  .  ."  (Gen.  1:26.  Italics  added.)  The 
use  of  these  plural  pronouns  indicates 
that  the  Son  also  took  part  in  the  crea- 
tion. But  even  then  he  was  no  novice 
as  a  Creator.  In  one  of  the  great  revela- 
tions given  to  Moses  and  revealed  anew 
in  the  latter  days,  God  said,  "And  worlds 
without  number  have  I  created;  .  .  .  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

by  the  Son  I  created  them,  which  is 
mine  Only  Begotten."  (Moses  2:33.) 

We  think  of  greatness  partly  in  terms 
of  what  it  has  already  accomplished 
and  partly  in  terms  of  what  it  promises 
for  the  future.  As  I  rerun  my  mental 
picture  of  ascension  day,  I  like  to  think 
of  the  Redeemer  in  terms  of  his  tre- 
mendous background.  Not  only  had 
he  created  worlds  without  number,  but 
in  his  pre-mortal  existence  he  was  that 
magnificent  personage  of  great  authority 
and  power  known  in  the  scriptures  as 
Jehovah,  the  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac, 
and  Jacob.  He  was  the  first  Begotten 
Son  of  God  in  the  spirit  and  was  chosen 
to  be  the  Savior  of  the  world  because 
he  was  the  best  qualified  for  that  im- 
portant calling.  Then  as  a  part  of  his 
own  progression,  he  took  upon  himself 
a  body  of  flesh  and  bones,  and  became 
the  Only  Begotten  Son  of  God  in  the 
flesh.  There  are  some  who  discount  the 
value  of  a  body  so  far  as  eternity  is  con- 
cerned. There  are  those  who  in  their 
teachings  seek  to  deprive  God  of  his 
body.  Many  do  not  believe  in  their 
own  resurrection.  But  next  to  the  human 
spirit  the  human  body  is  the  most  mar- 
velous of  God's  creations.  If  the  body 
was  not  necessary,  God  would  never 
have  created  it  in  the  first  place.  If  it 
was  not  necessary  for  eternity,  God  would 
never  have  instituted  the  resurrection. 
If  a  body  was  not  necessary  for  God  the 
Father,  certainly  there  would  have  been 
no  reason  why  God  the  Son  should  have 
been  resurrected.  The  spirit  and  the 
body  inseparably  connected  constitutes 
the  soul.  The  spirit  can  never  be  perfect 
without  the  body.  There  can  never  be  a 
fulness  of  joy  until  the  spirit  and  the 
body  are  inseparably  joined  together. 

The  Resurrected,  Glorified  Jesus,  like 
Elohim,  his  Eternal  Father,  has  a  body 
of  flesh  and  bones  as  tangible  as  man's. 
(See  D&C  130:22.)  When  Jesus  ap- 
peared to  the  eleven  after  his  resurrec- 
tion, they  were  frightened  and  supposed 
that  they  had  seen  a  spirit.  Jesus 
corrected  them  by  saying,  "Behold  my 
hands  and  my  feet,  that  it  is  I  myself: 
handle  me,  and  see;  for  a  spirit  hath  not 
flesh  and  bones,  as  ye  see  me  have." 
(Luke  24:39.)  Jesus  did  not  lose  his 
body  after  his  resurrection.  In  some 
mysterious  way  it  did  not  evaporate, 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


43 


neither  did  it  expand  to  fill  the  im- 
mensity of  space.  Jesus  had  his  body  as 
he  ascended  to  his  Father  from  the 
Mount  of  Olives,  and  the  record  is 
perfectly  clear  that  he  will  still  have 
that  same  body  when  he  comes  in  glory 
to  judge  the  world. 

In  addition  to  the  information  given 
in  the  Bible,  we  now  have  some  new 
evidence  of  universal  importance  which 
has  been  given  to  the  world  on  this 
subject  in  our  own  day.  In  the  early 
spring  of  1820,  in  upper  New  York 
state,  God  the  Father  and  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ  reappeared  upon  the  earth 
to  re-establish  among  men  a  belief  in 
the  God  of  Genesis,  a  belief  in  the  God 
of  Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob,  and  a 
belief  in  the  God  of  Mount  Olivet. 
The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  describes  his 
part  of  this  experience  by  saying,  "...  I 
saw  two  personages  whose  brightness 
and  glory  defy  all  description,  standing 
above  me  in  the  air.  One  of  them  spake 
unto  me,  calling  me  by  name  and  said, 
pointing  to  the  other — This  is  My  Be- 
loved Son.  Hear  Him!"  (Joseph  Smith 
2:17.)  Then  there  followed  the  great 
message  of  the  restoration. 

The  same  Jesus  who  healed  the  sick 
and  walked  upon  the  waves  has  spoken 
again  in  our  day  and  has  reaffirmed  the 
fact  that  he  is  still  interested  in  our 
success.  The  same  Jesus  said  to  his 
disciples,  ".  .  .  Go  ye  into  all  the  world, 
and  preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature. 

"tie  that  believeth  and  is  baptized 
shall  be  saved;  but  he  that  believeth 
not  shall  be  damned."  (Mark  16:15-16.) 
This  same  Jesus  has  informed  us  anew 
that  he  has  not  changed  his  mind  about 
the  importance  of  this  and  the  other 
great  Christian  doctrines. 

The  same  Jesus  who  upon  the  Mount 
of  Olives  said,  "And  this  gospel  of  the 
kingdom  shall  be  preached  in  all  the 
world  for  a  witness  unto  all  nations; 
and  then  shall  the  end  come,"  has, 
under  the  direction  of  his  Father,  re- 
stored that  gospel,  in  preparation  for 
that  day.  He  himself  looked  forward 
to  that  day  saying,  "For  the  Son  of  man 
shall  come  in  the  glory  of  his  Father 
with  his  angels;  and  then  he  shall 
reward  every  man  according  to  his 
works."  (Matt.  16:27.)  What  a  tre- 
mendous day  that  will  be.   That  is  also 


the  day  foretold  by  Malachi  who  said, 
"For  behold,  the  day  cometh  that  shall 
burn  as  an  oven,  and  all  the  proud,  yea, 
and  all  that  do  wickedly  shall  burn  as 
stubble;  for  they  that  come  shall  burn 
them,  saith  the  Lord  of  Hosts,  that  it 
shall  leave  them  neither  root  nor 
branch."  (Joseph  Smith  2:37.)  That 
tremendous  event  is  fast  approaching, 
and  we  must  work  while  it  is  called 
today,  for  the  night  cometh,  wherein 
no  man  can  work. 

I  would  like  to  bear  to  you  my  per- 
sonal witness  that  God  has  not  gone 
out  of  business,  that  the  heavens  are 
not  sealed,  that  the  Redeemer  of  man 
has  not  forgotten  his  promises,  nor  is 
he  any  less  interested  in  our  welfare 
now  than  when  in  Gethsemane  and 
upon  Mount  Calvary  he  suffered  for 
our  s;ns.  And  to  close,  I  would  again 
like  to  take  you  out  to  the  sacred  top  of 
the  Mount  of  Olives,  and  again  hear  the 
angels  say,  ".  .  .  this  same  Jesus,  which 
is  taken  up  from  you  into  heaven,  shall 
so  come  in  like  manner  as  ye  have  seen 
him  go  into  heaven."  (Acts  1:11.)  May 
God  help  us  to  be  ready  for  that  im- 
portant event  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve. 

The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  will  favor  us  with  "Seek  Thy 
God." 


The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  sang  "Seek  Thy  God." 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  welcome  all  those  who  have  just 
joined  us  by  radio  and  television  in  this 
session  of  the  133rd  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church,  convened  in  the  Taber- 
nacle on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake 
City. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  President 
Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the  First  Presidency 
of  the  Church. 


44  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  C  Second  Day 

PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


I  believe  with  all  my  heart  and  soul  that 
the  solution  to  our  problems  here  upon 
this  earth  today  and  tomorrow  is  to  be 
found  in  the  knowledge  and  apprecia- 
tion of  man's  relationship  to  God,  his 
dependence  upon  God,  and  his  obedi- 
ence to  God's  laws. 

The  world  is  not  just  a  watch  that 
the  Lord  wound  up  and  left  to  run 
down.  By  the  exercise  of  faith  men  can 
call  upon  God  and  obtain  his  help  in 
fulfilment  of  the  promises  he  has  made. 
Also,  of  his  own  volition,  God  inter- 
venes and  controls  the  affairs  of  men, 
of  nations,  and  the  very  elements  that 
make  up  the  universe  when  this  is 
necessary  for  the  preservation  of  his 
divine  purposes. 

In  speaking  of  the  divine  purposes  of 
the  Lord,  Paul  wrote,  "That  in  the  dis- 
pensation of  the  fulness  of  times  he 
might  gather  together  in  one  all  things 
in  Christ,  both  which  are  in  heaven, 
and  which  are  on  earth;  even  in 
him:  .  .  ."  (Eph.  1:10.) 

Modern  scripture  tells  us  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  "Now  the  pur- 
pose in  Himself  (that  is  Christ)  in  the 
winding  up  scene  of  the  last  dispensa- 
tion is  that  all  things  pertaining  to  that 
dispensation  should  be  conducted  pre- 
cisely in  accordance  with  preceding  dis- 
pensations." (DHC,  4:208.) 

Christ's  example  and  precept  set  in 
what  is  known  as  the  Dispensation  of 
the  Meridian  of  Time  control  us  today 
in  our  behavior  and  in  our  belief.  "We 
believe  in  the  same  organization  that 
existed  in  the  Primitive  Church.  .  .  .  We 
believe  all  that  God  has  revealed,  all 
that  He  does  now  reveal,  and  we  believe 
that  He  will  yet  reveal  many  great  and 
important  things  pertaining  to  the  King- 
dom of  God." 

I  have  just  quoted  the  sixth  and  ninth 
Articles  of  Faith  of  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  How 
startling  are  the  following  words  of 
Peter: 

"We  have  also  a  more  sure  word  of 
prophecy;  whereunto  ye  do  well  that 
ye  take  heed,  .  .  ."  (2  Peter  1:19.  Italics 
added.) 


Prophecy  and  revelation  came  from 
the  same  source  to  Peter  and  also  to 
Joseph  Smith  who  gave  us  our  Articles 
of  Faith. 

It  is  no  different  today  from  what  it 
was  in  the  days  of  Peter  and  Paul,  the 
apostles  of  old.  Paul  told  the  Romans 
that  "the  gospel  of  (Jesus)  Christ:  .  .  . 
is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  to 
every  one  that  believeth;  .  .  ."  (Romans 
1:16.)  Incorporated  in  this  term  salva- 
tion is  not  only  the  spiritual  but  also  the 
temporal  phase  of  our  lives.  We  cannot 
disassociate  mortal  man  from  the  eternal 
spirit  of  man  within  him.  It  is,  there- 
fore, through  obedience  to  the  laws  of 
God  that  we  will  find  the  answer  to  our 
questions,  whether  they  be  domestic, 
political,  social,  economic,  or  spiritual. 

I  give  to  you  today  my  assurance  that 
evidence,  if  not  conclusive  proof,  of  this 
fact  is  to  be  found  by  studying  the 
scriptures.  Christ's  admonition  to  his 
disciples  is  compelling  upon  all  of  us 
today.  Sooner  or  later  in  life  we  are 
brought  to  face  some  crisis  which  re- 
quires us  to  determine  for  ourselves: 
Do  we  desire  to  follow  the  direction 
Christ  gave  to  all  men  during  his 
earthly  ministry?  If  we  must  sooner 
or  later  choose  which  path  we  are  to 
pursue,  why  should  we  procrastinate, 
why  not  do  it  now? 

As  we  determine  our  course  in  life, 
we  may  well  remember  Paul's  sermon 
on  faith,   delivered  to  the  Hebrews: 

"Now  faith  is  the  substance  of  things 
hoped  for,  the  evidence  of  things  not 
seen. 

"Through  faith  we  understand  that 
the  worlds  were  framed  by  the  word 
of  God,  .  .  . 

"But  without  faith  it  is  impossible  to 
please  him:  for  he  that  cometh  to  God 
must  believe  that  he  is,  and  that  he  is 
a  rewarder  of  them  that  diligently  seek 
him."  (Heb.  11:1,  3,  6.) 

Through  our  faith  in  God  we  can 
accomplish  life's  full  purpose. 

Christ  in  his  Sermon  on  the  Mount, 
given  early  in  his  ministry,  as  recorded 
in  Matthew,  said:  "But  seek  ye  first  the 
kingdom  of  God,  and  his  righteousness; 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


45 


and  all  these  things  shall  be  added  unto 
you."  (Matt.  6:33.) 

And  then  he  added  a  little  later: 
"Ask,  and  it  shall  be  given  you;  seek, 
and  ye  shall  find;  knock,  and  it  shall  be 
opened  unto  you: 

"For  every  one  that  asketh  reoeiveth; 
and  he  that  seeketh  findeth;  and  to  him 
that  knocketh  it  shall  be  opened." 
(Ibid.,  7:7-8.) 

We  fulfil  our  highest  potentials  when 
we  receive  the  joy  and  security  and 
knowledge  which  come  from  the  witness 
of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  Comforter,  who 
teaches  us  all  things  essential  for  this 
life  and  ultimately  for  our  eternal 
exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

Paul  declared  to  the  Corinthians: 
"Wherefore  I  give  you  to  understand, 
that  no  man  speaking  by  the  Spirit  of 
God  calleth  Jesus  accursed:  and  that  no 
man  can  say  that  Jesus  is  the  Lord  but 
by  the  Holy  Ghost."  (1  Cor.  12:3.) 

When  the  testimony  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  is  borne  in  upon  our  conscience, 
and  we  know  that  Jesus  Christ  is  our 
Lord  and  Savior,  the  Redeemer  of  all 
mankind,  the  Son  of  the  Living  God, 
we  have  the  promise  of  life  eternal. 
Christ  declared  to  the  world:  "And  this 
is  life  eternal,  that  they  might  know 
thee  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ, 
whom  thou  hast  sent."   (John  17:3.) 

This  is  a  matter  about  which  we 
need  not  be  left  in  doubt.  We  know. 
This  knowledge  is  priceless.  The  prin- 
ciples of  the  gospel  can  be  understood 
and  lived  by  all  mankind.  The  laws 
and  ordinances  of  the  gospel  are  simple; 
they  are  natural.  They  are  appreciated 
by  all  who  accept  and  conform  their 
lives  thereto.  Not  all  men  can  acquire 
the  riches  of  the  world,  but  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord  will  overtake  all  who 
seek  after  them.  Like  the  acquisition 
of  anything  worthwhile  it  takes  effort 
to  attain  the  spiritual.  Faith,  dedica- 
tion, and  devotion  must  be  ours  to  bring 
ourselves  closer  and  closer  to  our  Heav- 
enly Father.  We  enjoy  our  communion 
with  God  here  and  now  in  mortality. 
We  do  not  need  to  wait  for  immortality 
to  enjoy  the  fruits  of  our  spiritual  labors. 
We  learn  to  appreciate  the  Spirit  of 
God  more  and  more  as  we  draw  nearer 
to  the  Lord  in  the  keeping  of  his  com- 


mandments. The  harder  we  knock,  the 
wider  is  the  door  opened. 

What  would  it  mean  to  all  of  us  to 
appreciate  that  we  are  never  left  alone 
to  rely  upon  our  own  resources;  that 
we  have  the  sustaining  power  and  influ- 
ence of  our  Heavenly  Father  constantly 
with  us  to  guide  and  direct  us  through- 
out our  lives  in  all  our  righteous  activi- 
ties. Those  who  keep  the  commandments 
of  God  realize  this  blessing  indeed. 
We  know,  and  our  missionaries  know. 
It  is  this  knowledge  which  urges  us  on 
to  help  others  with  an  enthusiasm  born 
of  the  Spirit  of  our  Father  in  heaven. 

It  was  not  until  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  organ- 
ized in  1830  that  the  population  of  this 
planet  reached  one  billion  living  per- 
sons. The  present  world  population,  a 
mere  133  years  later,  is  estimated  at 
more  than  three  billion.  Expert  estimates 
are  that  one-twentieth  of  all  those  who 
ever  lived  on  the  earth  are  here  today. 
If  the  present  rate  of  growth,  now  50-60 
million  a  year  still  continues  in  geo- 
metric progression,  there  will  be  six 
billion  human  beings  in  the  world  by 
the  year  2,000.  This  is  the  appraisal 
of  Dr.  George  Albert  Smith,  Jr.,  of  the 
Harvard  Business  College.  [Professor 
of  Business  Administration,  Harvard 
University.] 

He  then  asks  the  question:  "What  is 
the  way  of  life  to  be  for  these  people 
and  for  ourselves?  Ask  yourself  this 
question  often  and  earnestly  and 
realize  that  the  question  will  not  go 
unanswered." 

Whatever  the  population  may  be  now 
or  hereafter,  truth  will  remain  constant. 
To  know  the  truth  will  make  us  free. 
Truth  is  eternal.  We  must  seek  truth 
at  its  source.  Truth  emanates  from 
God.  How  applicable  are  the  words  of 
President  John  Taylor,  spoken  in  1861, 
a  former  head  of  the  Church  on  earth: 

"We  believe  that  no  man  or  set  of 
men,  of  their  own  wisdom  and  by  their 
own  talents,  are  capable  of  governing 
the  human  family  aright." 

There  is  no  unrest  when  you  know 
where  you  are  going  spiritually. 

"Blessed  are  they  which  do  hunger 
and  thirst  after  righteousness:  for  they 
shall  be  filled  "  (Matt.  5:6.) 

Our  message  to  the  world,  conveyed 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


46 

Saturday,  April  6 

by  us  and  our  missionaries,  is  to  en- 
lighten our  fellow  men  who  find  them- 
selves spiritually  in  the  dark.  There  is 
absolutely  nothing  of  such  great  worth 
to  man  as  to  know  God.  It  has  been 
said,  "We  know  God  when  we  know 
ourselves."  To  know  ourselves  we  must 
know  the  answer  to  these  simple  ques- 
tions— Who  are  we?  Why  are  we  here? 
And  being  here,  what  should  we  do? 

The  multitudes  to  whom  the  Savior 
spoke  were  all  physically  fed  by  the 
loaves  and  the  fishes,  but  there  was 
afterwards  a  spiritual  segregation  the 
multitude  would  make  for  themselves, 
illustrated  by  the  following  admonition 
of  the  Savior:  "Enter  ye  in  at  the  strait 
gate:  for  wide  is  the  gate,  and  broad  is 
the  way,  that  leadeth  to  destruction, 
and  many  there  be  which  go  in  thereat: 

"Because  strait  is  the  gate,  and  narrow 
is  the  way,  which  leadeth  unto  life,  and 
few  there  be  that  find  it."  (Ibid., 
7:13-14.) 

Do  we  go  with  the  many  or  stand  out 
spiritually  as  one  of  the  few?  To  do 
the  latter  we  must  add  to  bodily  suste- 
nance the  word  of  the  Lord,  for  spiritual 
growth  and  development. 

Thomas  asked  the  Savior:  ".  .  .  Lord, 
we  know  not  whither  thou  goest;  and 
how  can  we  know  the  way? 

"Jesus  saith  unto  him,  I  am  the  way, 
the  truth,  and  the  life:  no  man  cometh 
unto  the  Father,  but  by  me."  (John 
14:5-6.) 

Thomas  was  an  apostle  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  to  whom  Christ  had  given 
his  power,  his  priesthood,  to  preach  the 
gospel  taught  by  the  Savior. 

We  know  that  we  are  called  of  God 
and  have  received  his  priesthood  to 
preach  the  gospel  and  administer  in  its 
ordinances.  Therefore  the  following 
scripture  is  of  great  meaning  to  us  and 
important  to  the  world.  "Verily,  verily, 
I  say  unto  you,  He  that  receiveth  whom- 
soever I  send  receiveth  me;  and  he  that 
receiveth  me  receiveth  him  that  sent 
me."  (Ibid.,  13:20.) 

Twelve  thousand  men  and  women, 
our  beloved  sons  and  daughters,  brothers 
and  sisters,  leave  home,  family,  friends, 
position,  professions,  business,  and  enter 
into  the  missionary  work  of  the  Church 
throughout  the  world  at  their  own  ex- 


Second  Day 

pense  for  a  period  of  two  or  three  years. 
They  are  compelled  so  to  do  by  an 
absolute  realization  of  the  fact  that  they 
are  called  of  our  Heavenly  Father  to  go 
into  the  world  to  preach  the  gospel  and 
administer  in  the  ordinances  thereof, 
and  that  they  have  received  the  priest- 
hood of  God  to  qualify  them  therefore, 
just  as  the  apostles  of  old.  Members  of 
many  families  have  rendered  this  service 
for  as  many  as  six  generations. 

This  process  has  gone  on  for  133 
years;  the  number  going  on  missions  is 
increasing  yearly.  Their  purpose  is 
purely  unselfish.  They  disseminate  the 
light  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  all 
mankind,  to  teach  them  to  repent  of 
their  sins,  to  pray  to  God  in  faith,  be- 
lieving that  their  prayers  will  be 
answered  in  keeping  with  the  promise 
found  in  the  Epistle  of  James,  "If  any 
of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of 
God,  that  giveth  to  all  men  liberally, 
and  upbraideth  not;  and  it  shall  be 
given  him."  (James  1:5.) 

And  finally  the  missionaries  go  to 
bear  witness  to  the  world  that  God 
lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that 
through  the  gift  and  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  we  may  all  receive  this  same 
testimony  for  ourselves,  independent  of 
all  else  in  the  world.  When  received, 
this  testimony  is  all  consuming,  all  em- 
bracing. We  know  who  we  are,  where 
we  came  from,  and  where  through  strict 
obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of 
the  gospel  we  may  go.  Life's  purpose 
becomes  absolute  and  fixed.  Our  testi- 
mony and  knowledge  of  God  cannot 
be  lost  except  through  transgression. 
With  transgression  we  also  lose  the 
Spirit  of  God  and  the  Holy  Ghost  as 
our  comforter. 

As  missionaries  and  elders  holding  the 
true  priesthood  of  God,  it  is  our  duty, 
our  prerogative,  our  privilege,  to  testify 
of  our  knowledge  of  God  to  preach  the 
gospel  and  challenge  our  fellow  men 
to  forsake  the  ways  of  the  world,  the 
riches,  the  plaudits  of  men,  and  follow 
the  gospel  of  our  Savior  and  Redeemer 
to  our  own  redemption. 

No  one  need  stumble  along  the  way 
of  life  who  desires  to  return  ultimately 
into  the  presence  of  God  in  the  king- 
dom of  heaven.  The  Savior  in  his 
earthly  mission  made  clear  what  is 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


47 


expected  of  us  if  we  do  the  will  of  our 
Father  in  heaven. 

Let  us  consider  for  a  moment  the  case 
of  Nicodemus,  a  ruler  of  the  Jews, 
who  came  to  Christ  by  night:  "Jesus 
answered  and  said  unto  him,  Verily, 
verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  Except  a  man 
be  born  again,  he  cannot  see  the  king- 
dom of  God. 

"Nicodemus  saith  unto  him,  How  can 
a  man  be  born  when  he  is  old?  .  .  . 

"Jesus  answered,  Verily,  verily,  I  say 
unto  thee,  Except  a  man  be  born  of 
water  and  of  the  Spirit,  he  cannot  enter 
into  the  kingdom  of  God."  (John  3:3-5.) 

In  fact,  Jesus  had  already  set  the 
pattern  by  which  all  mankind  should 
be  guided: 

"Then  cometh  Jesus  from  Galilee  to 
Jordan  unto  John,  to  be  baptized  of  him. 

"But  John  forbad  him,  saying,  I  have 
need  to  be  baptized  of  thee,  and  comest 
thou  to  me? 

"And  Jesus  answering  said  unto  him, 
Suffer  it  to  be  so  now:  for  thus  it  be- 
cometh  us  to  fulfil  all  righteousness. 
Then  he  suffered  him. 

"And  Jesus,  when  he  was  baptized 
went  up  straightway  out  of  the  water: 
and,  lo,  the  heavens  were  opened  unto 
him,  and  he  saw  the  Spirit  of  God 
descending  like  a  dove,  and  lighting 
upon  him: 

"And  lo  a  voice  from  heaven,  saying, 
This  is  my  beloved  Son,  in  whom  I  am 
well  pleased."  (Matt.  3:13-17.) 

Since  that  moment  when  Christ  was 
baptized  of  John,  the  need  for  baptism 
by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins 
has  never  been  rightfully  debatable. 

How  wonderful  was  the  experience  of 
the  apostles  in  Jerusalem  on  the  day  of 
Pentecost  after  the  crucifixion  and  resur- 
rection and  ascension  of  Christ  when 
they  were  inspired  to  declare:  "There- 
fore let  all  the  house  of  Israel  know 
assuredly,  that  God  hath  made  that  same 
Jesus,  whom  ye  have  crucified,  both 
Lord  and  Christ. 

"Now  when  they  heard  this,  they 
were  pricked  in  their  heart,  and  said 
unto  Peter  and  to  the  rest  of  the  apostles, 
Men  and  brethren,  what  shall  we  do? 

"Then  Peter  said  unto  them,  Repent, 


and  be  baptized  every  one  of  you  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the  remission 
of  sins,  and  ye  shall  receive  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost."  (Acts  2:36-38.) 

This  is  the  path  that  leadeth  through 
the  straight  gate  and  along  the  narrow 
way  to  life  eternal.  Thus  only  can  we 
truly  worship  God  with  all  our  might, 
mind,  and  strength. 

It  will  make  no  difference  to  us 
whether  there  be  three  or  six  billion 
brothers  and  sisters  on  the  earth,  our 
own  path  to  travel  through  life  will  be 
the  same.  Our  responsibility  to  carry 
out  the  final  charge  Christ  gave  his 
apostles  of  old  reiterated  in  our  present 
dispensation  is  mandatory  upon  us  to- 
day, namely:  ".  .  .  Go  ye  into  all  the 
world,  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every 
creature."  (Mark  16:15.)  This  becomes 
relatively  easier  year  after  year  as  the 
Church  grows  and  flourishes  through- 
out the  world.  We  have  greater  num- 
bers to  participate  and  all  modern  means 
of  communication  to  help. 

We  have  no  cause  to  worry  over  the 
problems  of  the  world  no  matter  how 
complicated  they  become.  We  do  need 
to  worry  about  our  appreciation  of  the 
laws  of  God  given  to  control  the  con- 
duct of  man  on  the  earth  and  our  strict 
adherence  thereto.  How  grateful  we 
should  be  for  the  words  of  the  Lord  to 
Joseph  Smith  to  inspire  us  today: 

"...  a  whole  and  complete  and 
perfect  union,  and  welding  together  of 
dispensations,  and  keys,  and  powers, 
and  glories  should  take  place,  and  be 
revealed  from  the  days  of  Adam  even 
to  the  present  time.  And  not  only  this, 
but  those  things  which  never  have  been 
revealed  from  the  foundation  of  the 
world,  .  .  .  shall  be  revealed  ...  in  this, 
the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times." 
(D&C  128:18.) 

We  live  in  the  most  enlightened  age 
of  man's  history,  just  as  the  prophets 
foretold.  More  is  therefore  expected  of 
us  than  of  any  prior  generation  of  man. 
"Where  much  is  given,  much  is  re- 
quired." (See  ibid.,  82:3.) 

God  help  us  to  take  full  advantage  of 
all  the  light  and  knowledge  revealed 
to  us,  I  pray  humbly  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


48 

Saturday,  April  6 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church  has  just 
spoken  to  us. 

The  following  cablegram:  "Apia, 
Samoa.  Church  members  of  the  Sa- 
moan  Mission  express  great  appreciation 
for  opportunity  to  hear  General  Con- 
ference. Reception  fine.  President 
Hanks." 

"Aloha  Nui  Loa  from  all  the  residents 
of  Laie.  We  thrill  with  anticipation 
of  receiving  General  Conference  for  the 
first  time  tomorrow  throughout  Hawaii 
by  video-tape.  For  many  people  here  it 
is  the  dream  of  a  lifetime  come  true. 
Our  deepest,  heartfelt  thanks  for  this 
wonderful  opportunity.    Sterling  Pro- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

vost,  President,  Laie  Community  Asso- 
ciation, Laie,  Hawaii." 

Following  a  brief  organ  interlude  for 
station  identification  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  and  the  Congregation  will  sing 
"Redeemer  of  Israel,"  with  Richard 
P.  Condie  conducting  and  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  con- 
gregation joined  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"Redeemer  of  Israel." 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Alvin 
R.  Dyer,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  ALVIN  R.  DYER 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


It  is  difficult  to  imagine  how  one  could 
attend  this  conference  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
without  feeling  the  surge  of  inspiration 
and  the  gravity  of  its  importance  in 
pointing  the  way  to  all  mankind  who 
at  this  very  hour  are  troubled  and  con- 
fused and  in  need  of  divine  direction. 

The  message  of  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  has  relent- 
lessly been  declared  unto  the  world  since 
its  organization,  means  that  the  king- 
dom of  God  or  Christ's  Church  has  been 
set  up  as  a  result  of  the  restoration  of 
truth  unto  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
wherein  divine  messengers  have  been 
sent  from  the  presence  of  God  to  con- 
vey the  truths  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  to  confer  all  needed  keys  of 
authority  to  establish  a  dispensation  of 
the  gospel. 

The  disciples  of  Jesus  who  were  with 
him  upon  the  earth  found  it  difficult 
to  accept  that  which  he  had  declared 
unto  the  chief  priests  and  the  scribes 
concerning  the  kingdom  to  be  given  at 
a  later  time  to  another  people,  for 
said  he,  "Therefore  say  I  unto  you,  The 
kingdom  of  God  shall  be  taken  from 
you,  and  given  to  a  nation  bringing 
forth  the  fruits  thereof."  (Matt.  21:43.) 

Put  this  same  Jesus  when  later  speak- 


ing to  the  Jews  concerning  this  latter 
kingdom  to  be  established  as  a  sign  of 
his  coming  refers  to  the  words  of  the 
Prophet  Daniel  who  describes  the  king- 
dom to  be  established  which  would 
never  be  given  to  another  people.  "And 
in  the  days  of  these  kings,"  who  were 
described  as  being  in  the  latter  days, 
".  .  .  shall  the  God  of  heaven  set  up  a 
kingdom,  which  shall  never  be  de- 
stroyed: and  the  kingdom  shall  not  be 
left  to  other  people,  .  .  ."  (Dan.  2:44.) 

Finally,  as  Jesus  instructed  his 
disciples  as  he  sat  upon  the  Mount  of 
Olives,  they  seemed  to  accept  the  final- 
ity of  this,  and  with  that  understanding 
asked  of  him  this  question:  ".  .  .  Tell 
us,  (then)  when  shall  these  things  be? 
and  what  shall  be  the  sign  of  thy  com- 
ing, .  .  .  ?"  (Matt.  24:3.)  In  the  answer 
which  Jesus  gave  to  this  question  he 
said,  "When  ye  therefore  shall  see  the 
abomination  of  desolation,  spoken  of 
by  Daniel  the  prophet,  stand  in  the 
holy  place,  .  .  ." 

"And  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall 
be  preached  in  all  the  world  for  a  wit- 
ness unto  all  nations;  .  .  ."  (Matt. 
24:15,  14.) 

The  meridian  apostles  who  were 
closest  to  him  understood  clearly,  as 
judged  from  their  own  declarations,  that 


ELDER  ALVIN  R.  DYER 


49 


the  kingdom  of  God  which  the  Lord 
established  upon  the  earth  would  not 
continue  at  that  time,  and  they  them- 
selves looked  forward  to  the  future  time 
of  restitution  or  restoration.  The  Apos- 
tle Peter  on  the  day  of  Pentecost 
declared: 

".  .  .  the  times  of  refreshing  shall 
come  from  the  presence  of  the  Lord; 

"And  he  shall  send  Jesus  Christ, 
which  before  was  preached  unto  you: 

"Whom  the  heaven  must  receive  un- 
til the  times  of  restitution  (or  restora- 
tion) of  all  things,  .  .  .  (concerning) 
which  God  hath  spoken  by  the  mouth 
of  all  his  holy  prophets  since  the  world 
began."  (Acts  3:19-21.) 

The  Apostle  Paul  to  the  Saints  at 
Thessalonica  and  also  at  Ephesus  said 
this  concerning  this  future  day: 

".  .  .  be  not  soon  shaken  in  mind, 
or  be  troubled,  neither  by  spirit,  nor  by 
word,  nor  by  letter  as  from  us,  as  that 
the  day  of  Christ  is  at  hand. 

".  .  .  for  that  day  shall  not  come,  ex- 
cept there  come  a  falling  away  first,  .  .  ." 
(2  Thess.  2:2-3.) 

"That  in  the  dispensation  of  the  ful- 
ness of  times  he  might  gather  together 
in  one  all  things  in  Christ,  both  which 
are  in  heaven,  and  which  are  on 
earth;  .  .  ."  (Eph.  1:10.) 

The  Apostle  John  on  the  Isle  of  Pat- 
mos,  a  prisoner,  saw  the  coming  of  the 
gospel  in  the  latter  days:  "And  I  saw 
another  angel  fly  in  the  midst  of 
heaven,  having  the  everlasting  gospel  to 
preach  unto  them  that  dwell  on  the 
earth,  and  to  every  nation,  and  kindred, 
and  tongue,  and  people,"  (Rev.  14:6.) 

When  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  as  a 
young  man  blessed  with  the  gift  of 
faith  and  an  inquiring  heart  to  know 
the  will  of  God,  went  into  a  grove  of 
trees  near  his  home  at  Palmyra,  New 
York,  in  the  spring  of  1820  to  inquire 
of  the  Lord  what  he  should  do  about 
his  religious  affiliation,  he  did  not  then 
know  of  the  magnitude  of  that  which 
was  to  transpire,  as  he  came  to  know 
later.  Here  was  to  occur  one  of  the 
great  foreordained  events  of  life  des- 
tined to  be  of  vital  importance  to  all 
mankind. 

For,  as  in  the  placing  of  Adam  and 
Eve,  our  first  earth-life  parents,  in  tbe 
Garden  of  Eden;  of  the  calling  and  work 


of  the  Utopian  prophet  Enoch;  of  the 
mission  and  labors  of  the  great  prophet 
of  human  tragedy,  Noah,  who  with  his 
three  sons  and  their  families  witnessed 
the  complete  destruction  of  mankind 
which  they  only  survived;  of  the  coming 
of  Melchizedek,  the  great  high  priest, 
before  the  Lord;  of  Abraham,  Isaac,  and 
Jacob;  of  Joseph,  the  beloved  of  his 
father  and  the  Lord;  of  Moses,  the  law- 
giver, the  Godly  appointed  leader  of  the 
exodus  of  the  children  of  Israel  from  the 
bondage  of  Egypt;  followed  by  the 
other  prophets  in  their  own  time  ac- 
cording to  the  will  of  the  Lord;  and 
then  the  surpassing  earth-life  ministry 
and  atonement  of  Jesus  Christ  our 
Lord,  the  very  Son  of  God  the  Father; 
so  now,  in  this  great  modern  event,  in 
the  sequence  of  its  full  importance,  was 
to  unfold  unto  Joseph  Smith  the  coming 
of  a  new  dispensation  of  the  gospel 
attended  as  it  was  upon  this  occasion, 
and  with  subsequent  happenings,  with 
divine  intercession  through  messengers 
sent  from  the  presence  of  God. 

In  all  of  these  events,  ancient, 
meridian,  and  now  in  our  own  day  and 
time,  when  the  foreordained  time  in 
which  they  were  to  transpire  arrived, 
they  came  about  as  simply  and  naturally 
as  the  opening  and  closing  of  a  door — 
each  in  its  own  dispensation  of  time. 

Thus,  on  this  beautiful  spring  morn- 
ing in  the  Sacred  Grove,  Joseph  Smith 
witnessed  the  renewal  of  God's  dealing 
with  his  children  in  accordance  with 
the  great  gospel  plan  of  redemption. 
Upon  this  occasion  God  the  Father  and 
his  Beloved  Son  Jesus  Christ  appearing 
as  glorified  Resurrected  Beings  unto  a 
chosen  servant  of  God,  made  known 
once  again  the  state  of  immortality 
which  man  will  attain  in  preparation 
for  the  next  estate  of  eternity;  that  also 
the  world  once  again  could  know  the 
reality  of  the  personal  nature  of  God 
the  Father  and  his  Beloved  Son.  In 
this  appearance  of  Holy  Deity  we  see, 
as  in  times  past,  the  need  of  God's 
appearing  unto  man  in  mortality;  man 
who  also,  as  in  times  past,  had  gone 
astray  in  his  concept  and  understanding 
of  the  True  and  Living  God;  for  man 
as  man,  with  all  his  wisdom,  cannot 
find  out  the  truth  about  God.  Such 
must  be  revealed  to  him  by  divine  ap- 


50 

Saturday,  April  6 

pearance  to  a  prophet  of  God,  who  then 
becomes  the  witness  unto  others. 

As  this  sacred  interview  proceeded, 
the  glory  of  the  last  dispensation  of 
mortal  time  was  inaugurated.  The 
truth  about  God  and  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ  and  their  glorious  plan  of  re- 
demption was  once  again  placed  upon 
the  threshold  of  human  understanding. 

This  divine  interview  placed  a  great 
calling  upon  Joseph  Smith,  the  chosen 
prophet  of  the  latter  days.  In  addition 
to  an  incident  of  simple  faith  and 
prayer,  with  an  answer  for  him  person- 
ally, the  time  had  come  to  usher  in  the 
final  period  of  preparation  in  the  cul- 
mination of  God's  work  for  his  children 
here  upon  the  earth. 

Joseph  Smith  was  informed  that  he 
had  been  foreordained  and  consequently 
called  to  be  the  instrument  through 
whom  God  would  work  to  establish  his 
kingdom  here  upon  the  earth  as  it  had 
been  in  former  intermittent  dispensa- 
tions. But  this,  the  last  of  all  dispen- 
sations, is  to  be  characterized  by  even 
greater  truth,  a  depository  period  when 
all  truths,  all  laws,  all  covenants,  all 
promises  planned  by  God  our  Heavenly 
Father  in  the  pre-existence  and  revealed 
to  man  in  part  at  various  times  in  mor- 
tality for  the  redemption  and  exaltation 
of  his  spirit  children,  were  now  to  be 
fully  revealed  and  made  available  to 
mankind.  The  Lord  had  thus  spoken 
unto  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

The  instructions  and  answers  which 
the  Lord  gave  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  during  the  interview  in  the 
Sacred  Grove  announced  many  great 
truths.  I  shall  refer  to  only  a  part  of 
that  interview  as  it  was  later  testified 
to  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  but  I 
encourage  all  everywhere  to  read  the 
complete  testimony  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.   He  said  this  in  part: 

".  .  .  When  the  light  rested  upon  me 
I  saw  two  Personages,  whose  brightness 
and  glory  defy  all  description,  standing 
above  me  in  the  air.  One  of  them  spake 
unto  me,  calling  me  by  name  and  said, 
pointing  to  the  other — This  is  My  Be- 
loved Son.  Hear  Him! 

"My  object  in  going  to  inquire  of  the 
Lord  was  to  know  which  of  all  the 
sects  was  right,  that  I  might  know  which 
to  join.   No  sooner,  therefore,  did  I  get 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

possession  of  myself,  so  as  to  be  able  to 
speak,  than  I  asked  the  Personages  who 
stood  above  me  in  the  light,  which  of  all 
the  sects  was  right — and  which  I  should 
join. 

"I  was  answered  that  I  must  join  none 
of  them,  for  they  were  all  wrong;  and 
the  Personage  who  addressed  me  said 
that  all  their  creeds  were  an  abomina- 
tion in  his  sight;  that  those  professors 
were  all  corrupt;  that:  'they  draw  near  to 
me  with  their  lips,  but  their  hearts  are 
far  from  me,  they  teach  for  doctrines  the 
commandments  of  men,  having  a  form 
of  godliness,  but  they  deny  the  power 
thereof.'"  (Joseph  Smith  2:17-19.) 

Each  of  the  declarations  which  the 
Lord  made  to  Joseph  Smith  upon  this 
occasion  is  of  the  deepest  import  to  this 
final  dispensation  of  the  gospel  and  to 
the  plan  of  life  and  salvation  in  general. 
His  answers  to  the  inquiry  made  by 
Joseph  Smith  were  not  simply  a  dispar- 
agement to  the  existing  Christian  bodies 
who  had  departed  from  the  truth. 
Though  announced  by  the  Lord  that 
they  were  all  in  error  in  teachings  and 
false  practices  intended  to  redeem  man- 
kind, there  was  no  vindictive  reprisal 
against  these  Christian  societies  who 
were  using  his  name,  but  who  were  fully 
unaware  of  the  truth  of  his  person  and 
divinity  or  of  his  mission  or  of  the  plan 
of  salvation  of  which  he  is  the  author 
so  far  as  we  are  concerned. 

Truly  among  these  very  societies  of 
Christian  believers  then  in  the  world 
were  many  noble  spirits  of  the  pre- 
existence,  who  upon  subsequently  hear- 
ing the  truth  as  proclaimed  by  the 
heralds  of  the  restoration,  would  accept 
it  and  abide  its  commandments  and 
teachings;  many  of  whom  would  them- 
selves become  leaders  and  great  cham- 
pions of  the  cause  of  the  restored  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ. 

The  Lord  used  no  meaningless  words 
upon  this  momentous  occasion.  All 
that  was  spoken  reflects  the  deepest  of 
meaning.  President  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
one  of  the  prophets  of  this  dispensation, 
has  said  this,  "The  Lord  never  did  any- 
thing that  was  not  essential  or  that  was 
superfluous." 

It  will  be  of  interest  to  list  the  an- 
swers which  the  Lord  gave  to  Joseph 
Smith's  direct  question  as  to  which  of 


ELDER  ALV1N  R.  DYER 


51 


the  Christian  churches  he  should  join. 
These  are  as  follows: 

1.  That  all  their  creeds  were  an 
abomination. 

2.  That  their  professors  (or  ministers) 
were  all  corrupt. 

3.  That  they  draw  near  to  the  Lord 
with  their  lips,  but  their  hearts  are  far 
from  him. 

4.  They  teach  for  doctrines  the  com- 
mandments of  men. 

5.  That  they  have  a  form  of  godliness, 
but  they  deny  the  power  thereof. 

There  can  be  no  question  as  to  the 
direct  and  positive  answers  which  the 
Lord  gave  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
but  perhaps  a  brief  explanation  of  each 
of  these  answers  can  be  given  to  those 
of  the  Christian  churches  of  the  world 
who  can  then  understand  the  true 
significance  of  the  sacred  interview 
which  God  the  Father  and  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ  had  with  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith. 

As  to  the  creeds  being  an  abomination, 
this  simply  means  that  the  Christian 
churches  of  the  world  were  not  follow- 
ing the  accepted  pattern  which  he,  the 
Lord,  had  established  in  his  Church, 
and  that  they  had  strayed  from  the 
customs  and  the  manner  which  he  had 
established,  and  the  term  abomination 
fits  that  which  is  at  variance  only  with 
the  established  truth  of  God. 

With  regard  to  the  fact  that  all  min- 
isters were  corrupt — this  could  not  be 
the  literal  meaning,  because  the  ancient 
meaning  of  the  word  corrupt  meant  any 
who  did  not  teach  doctrines  which  had 
been  established  in  accordance  with  the 
law.  Surely  they  were  not  regarded  as 
corrupt  because  of  morals  or  dishonesty 
and  not  desirous  of  doing  God's  will  as 
they  understood  it,  but  only  in  the  sense 
of  failing  to  teach  the  gospel  as  Christ 
had  taught  it. 

As  to  worshiping  him  with  their  lips 
but  their  hearts  being  far  from  him,  this 
I  believe  involved  the  work  made  pos- 
sible by  the  "sealing  power." 

This  work  embodies  the  sealing 
through  specific  rights  of  the  priesthood 
of  both  living  and  dead,  one  to  another, 
as  with  husband  and  wife,  as  with 
father  and  mother  to  children;  that  fam- 
ilies living  upon  the  earth  in  this  day 
and  age,  connected  with  ancestors  and 


progenitors,  may  be  bound  one  with 
another,  thereby  linking  the  past  with 
the  present  and  both  the  past  and  the 
present  with  the  future.  Thus,  the 
hearts  of  the  fathers  may  be  bound  in 
holy  sealing  with  their  children  and 
children  with  the  fathers  in  the  patri- 
archal order  of  family  relationship  in 
linked  fashion  as  an  endless  chain  with 
each  link  secure  and  interwoven. 

This  is  to  prepare  man  for  life  in  the 
celestial  kingdom  which  will  in  due 
time  follow  earth-life  existence.  This  is 
the  patriarchal  form  of  government  or 
government  by  and  through  the  family 
units  which  are  then  to  worship  and  to 
associate  with  the  Lord.  They  not  only 
worship  through  the  utterances  of  their 
lips,  but  by  their  hearts  also;  this  will 
mean  complete  sincerity  of  purpose  and 
intent  based  upon  truth.  We  will  be 
bound  family  to  family;  we  will  be 
linked  one  with  another  by  the  sealing 
authority  which  the  Prophet  Elijah 
held,  reaching  to  the  very  realms  of  the 
family  of  God  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ. 
There  all  shall  be  bound  forever  by  lips 
or  stated  committed  purpose;  and  bound 
by  heart  also,  thus  manifesting  obedi- 
ence to  God's  will  and  purpose  in 
glorious  family  relationship. 

As  to  the  teaching  for  doctrines  the 
commandments  of  men,  even  the  re- 
formers as  great  as  they  were  and  as 
sincere  as  they  were  in  protesting 
against  that  which  they  felt  was  false, 
there  is  no  evidence  in  the  founding  of 
these  various  sects  that  any  form  of 
divine  intercession  occurred  wherein 
holy  messengers  were  sent  from  God, 
giving  instruction  and  direction  in  the 
establishing  of  that  particular  church. 
What  they  did,  therefore,  was  in  ac- 
cordance with  their  best  knowledge, 
devoid  of  any  divine  revelation.  Thus 
the  commandments  which  they  taught 
were  of  men  and  not  of  God.  Though 
they  simulate  in  form  the  Christian 
body,  they  nevertheless  teach  for  com- 
mandments the  doctrines  of  men. 

As  to  a  form  of  Godliness  but  denying 
the  power  thereof,  this  applies  to  the 
need  of  the  priesthood  of  God  or  divine 
authority  within  the  Church  author- 
ized to  act  for  and  in  behalf  of  God. 
And  that  through  the  Holy  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  in  the  true  Church  of  Christ 


52 

Saturday,  April  6 

there  is  to  be  the  functioning  and  use 
of  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  that  must 
be  conferred  by  those  who  hold  them. 
In  this  manner  the  purity  of  important 
truths  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  can  be  preserved. 

Now  I  bear  witness,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  to  the  reality  of  the  restoration 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  with  all  of 
its  powers  and  authority  and  knowledge 
and  understanding  to  bring  salvation 
and  exaltation  unto  mankind.  And  I 
bear  record  of  this  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Assistant  to  the 


Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer 
Twelve  Apostles. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing 
"Lord,  Thou  Hast  Made  Us  For  Thine 
Own." 


Singing  by  the  Choir,  "Lord,  Thou 
Hast  Made  Us  For  Thine  Own." 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Robert  L.  Simpson,  First  Coun- 
selor in  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  will  be 
our  concluding  speaker. 


BISHOP  ROBERT  L.  SIMPSON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


A  great  prophet  who  lived  2,500  years 
ago  stated  that:  ".  .  .  men  are,  that  they 
might  have  joy."  (2  Nephi  2:25.)  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  in  this  day  holds 
fast  to  this  inspired  scripture  as  an 
eternal  truth. 

The  quest  for  joy  and  happiness  is 
common  to  all  regardless  of  race,  color, 
or  creed.  While  the  objective  is  com- 
mon, the  understanding  on  how  to 
achieve  it  is  often  another  story. 

The  existence  of  man  in  this  mortal 
sphere  finds  him  involved  in  a  grand 
system  of  physical  force  and  physical 
law,  all  held  together  and  seemingly 
pre-set  into  a  magnificent  system  of 
amazing  order  and  synchronization.  We 
marvel  at  the  seasons,  the  celestial 
bodies.  All  about  us  is  evidence  of 
natural  law  and  an  overwhelming  sug- 
gestion of  divine  assemblage.  The  laws 
of  gravity,  heat,  and  motion  all  follow 
precise  patterns  under  given  conditions. 
If  we  enter  the  fiery  furnace,  we  die. 
If  we  attempt  to  defy  the  laws  of  gravity, 
we  are  killed.  If  our  car  sweeps  along 
the  highway  uncontrolled,  we  crash, 
and  we  must  all  agree  that  the  human 
body  in  similar  manner  is  subject  to  the 
law  and  order  of  the  universe,  for  it 
is  physical. 

Obedience  to  the  law  whether  it  be 
physical,  intellectual,  or  spiritual  brings 


harmony,  peace,  joy,  and  happiness. 
This  thinking  was  confirmed  by  the 
Master  who  said  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith:  "There  is  a  law,  irrev- 
ocably decreed  in  heaven  before  the 
foundations  of  this  world,  upon  which 
all  blessings  are  predicated — 

"And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing 
from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law 
upon  which  it  is  predicated."  (D&C 
130:20-21.)  We  are  blessed  by  obedience 
to  law.  Transgression  of  the  law  always 
brings  unhappiness.  Carried  to  the 
extreme  it  could  mean  death. 

I  believe  with  all  my  heart  that 
natural  law  is  the  handiwork  of  a  Lov- 
ing Father  in  heaven,  and  I  further 
bear  record  that  this  same  Loving 
Father  has  not  left  us  without  specific 
instruction  concerning  the  care  of  our 
physical  bodies,  for  he  created  us,  and  he 
knows  that  true  happiness  and  total 
growth,  moral,  spiritual,  and  intel- 
lectual, are  largely  dependent  upon  our 
physical  well-being. 

Through  this  same  great  latter-day 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  the  Lord  has 
revealed  an  entire  volume  of  scripture 
known  as  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants. 
In  the  89th  section  of  this  inspired  work, 
the  Lord  gives  to  all  men  who  would 
listen  what  he  calls  "A  Word  of  Wis- 
dom." Let  us  read  a  part  of  this  inspired. 


BISHOP  ROBERT  L.  SIMPSON 


53 


revelation,  starting  with  the  fourth 
verse,  and  then  merely  highlight  the 
following  five  verses  in  the  interest  of 
time: 

"Behold,  verily,  thus  saitli  the  Lord 
unto  you:  In  consequence  of  evils  and 
designs  which  do  and  will  exist  in  the 
hearts  of  conspiring  men  in  the  last 
days,  I  have  warned  you,  and  forewarn 
you,  by  giving  unto  you  this  word  of 
wisdom  by  revelation — 

"That  inasmuch  as  any  man  drinketh 
wine  or  strong  drink  among  you,  be- 
hold it  is  not  good,  neither  meet  in  the 
sight  of  your  Father,  .  .  . 

".  .  .  strong  drinks  are  not  for  the 
belly,  but  for  the  washing  of  your 
bodies. 

"And  again,  tobacco  is  not  for  the 
body,  neither  for  the  belly,  and  is  not 
good  for  man,  but  is  an  herb  for  bruises 
and  all  sick  cattle,  to  be  used  with 
judgment  and  skill."  (Ibid.,  89:4-5,  7-8.) 

We  are  further  instructed  that  the 
"evil  designs  of  conspiring  men"  has  a 
reference  to  them  who  would  ply  us 
with  a  never-ending  tidal  wave  of  propa- 
ganda in  an  attempt  to  convince  us  that 
it  is  not  only  popular  but  safe  and  smart 
to  violate  this  God-given  law  of  health. 

Now  to  clarify  a  few  terms.  This  also 
by  revelation.  Strong  drink  signifies  all 
alcoholic  beverages. 

Tobacco  is  explicit  and  needs  no  clari- 
fication. This  reference  includes  all 
forms  of  tobacco.  The  term  hot  drinks 
has  reference  to  coffee  and  tea. 

To  summarize  quickly:  Alcohol  and 
tobacco,  tea  and  coffee  are  all  contrary 
to  the  Lord's  law  of  health,  and  all  who 
violate  the  law  for  a  borrowed  moment 
of  so-called  pleasure  must  be  prepared 
to  sacrifice  some  real  and  lasting  joy 
and  happiness  that  should  rightfully  be 
theirs. 

Thomas  A.  Edison  has  said,  "To  put 
alcohol  in  the  human  brain  is  like 
putting  sand  in  a  machine."  He  further 
commented:  "I  employ  no  one  who 
smokes  cigarets." 

I  wonder  whether  we  are  all  aware 
of  these  scientifically  proven  facts  about 
alcohol. 

Alcohol  is  not  a  stimulant  but  a  de- 
pressant, a  depressant  of  the  brain  and 
nervous  system.    It  is  a  habit-forming 


drug  and  has  poisonous  effects  on  the 
body.  It  has  no  value  as  a  food.  In 
the  United  States  there  are  nearly  a 
million  alcoholics  with  nearly  two  and 
a  quarter  million  well  on  the  way.  This 
is  a  national  disgrace.  Mental  accuracy 
is  impaired  by  alcohol,  and  in  chronic 
cases,  the  brain  cells  degenerate.  Ap- 
proximately 12,000  alcoholic  patients 
are  given  psychiatric  treatment  in  a 
single  New  York  hospital  each  year. 

Gladstone  has  observed  that  "the 
ravages  of  drink  are  greater  than  those 
of  pestilence  and  famine  combined." 
Now  we  must  surely  agree  with  this 
great  man,  as  it  has  contributed  to  the 
loss  of  more  homes,  led  to  more  bank- 
ruptcies, more  crime,  more  accidents, 
more  broken  marriages,  more  cases  of 
blindness,  more  derelicts  of  society,  more 
immorality,  more  suicides,  than  any 
other  single  influence  known  to  man 
today. 

Yes,  it  is  certain  that  out  of  compas- 
sion for  his  children  a  Loving  Heavenly 
Father  has  given  a  modern-day  revela- 
tion that  strong  drinks  are  not  for 
our  benefit. 

A  similar  wake  of  destruction  follows 
the  careless  rampage  of  tobacco  among 
men,  women,  and  children.  Would  you 
believe  that  tobacco  costs  the  American 
people  over  3  billion,  600  million  dollars 
a  year?  Do  you  know  that  the  purchase 
of  cigarets  last  year  in  the  United  States 
increased  about  four  percent?  This  means 
that  the  vast  majority  of  smokers  are  ig- 
noring the  overwhelming  evidence  of 
competent  medical  authority  now  avail- 
able concerning  the  lethal  effect  of 
tobacco  on  the  human  anatomy. 

The  American  Cancer  Society  reports 
that  lung  cancer  is  ninety-five  percent 
fatal,  and  then  the  report  goes  on  to 
say  that  evidence  proves  that  three- 
fourths  of  all  lung  cancer  cases  can  be 
traced  to  the  use  of  tobacco. 

The  American  Public  Health  Asso- 
ciation, based  on  its  findings,  estimates 
that  one  million  American  children  now 
in  school  will  die  of  lung  cancer  before 
they  reach  their  God-granted  life  ex- 
pectancy. Now,  in  a  sense,  this  is  a 
form  of  national  suicide,  and  we  do  not 
have  the  right  to  shorten  human  life; 
and  now  this,  perhaps  the  saddest  of  all 


54 

Saturday,  April  6 

commentary — a  staff  of  experts  studying 
the  tobacco  problem  have  concluded 
that  the  upward  trend  in  the  use  of 
tobacco  among  the  children  can  be 
traced  directly  to  a  more  permissive 
attitude  on  the  part  of  parents.  Perhaps 
we  shouldn't  talk  so  much  about  what 
the  schools  aren't  doing  as  we  should 
talk  about  what  parents  should  be 
doing;  and  this  is  as  it  should  be.  Our 
children  should  be  taught  in  the  home. 
I  would  like  to  make  an  appeal  to  every 
parent  who  loves  his  children;  why  not 
start  today  and  set  the  proper  example 
for  those  we  love? 

Now,  time  will  not  permit  us  to  go 
into  the  cases  of  coffee  and  tea,  but 
suffice  it  to  say  that  the  Lord  has  recog- 
nized these  stimulants  as  habit-forming 
and  contrary  to  the  freedom  he  wants  so 
much  for  all  of  his  children. 

Now,  if  you  really  knew  that  your 
child  was  in  danger,  if  you  were  told 
that  conspiring  men  were  meeting  your 
children  on  their  way  home  from  school, 
going  all  out  to  attract  their  attention 
and  condition  their  minds  toward  the 
acceptance  of  a  bad  habit,  wouldn't  you 
feel  compelled  to  do  something  about 
it?  Why,  of  course  you  would — you 
would  do  something  that  very  day.  But 
why  let  the  conspiring  men  stand  on  a 
cold  corner?  We  are  allowing  them  to 
accomplish  the  same  evil  practice  in  the 
comfort  and  convenience  of  our  homes 
every  day.  Now  here's  a  challenge  for  us. 
Let's  do  something  about  it,  parents. 

Let  me  read  a  letter  from  a  confused 
youngster.  I  think  this  has  real  merit. 
This  young  man  was  a  typical  TV  fan. 
He  is  writing  to  his  favorite  baseball 
player: 

"You  are  my  favorite  baseball  player. 
I  saw  a  TV  ad  where  you  say  you 
smoke  cigarets  and  that  you  like  them. 
I  guess  they  help  you.  My  mother  says 
cigarets  are  bad  and  good  players  don't 
use  them.  I  want  to  be  a  good  player. 
Can  you  tell  me?  Are  they  good  for  you? 
Would  you  please  tell  me?"  Signed, 
"Hector.  P.  S.  I  am  ten  years  old." 

Well,  the  answer  was  slow  in  coming, 
but  after  a  few  weeks: 

"Dear  Hector:  Yes,  I  was  in  a 
cigaret  advertisement  on  television.  I 
would  not  recommend  for  anyone  to 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

ever  start  smoking.  It  does  not  help 
one  in  athletics.  I  hope  that  you  will 
take  your  parents'  advice  not  to  smoke." 

Now,  as  these  young  minds  are  being 
conditioned  by  conspiring  men,  we  see 
history  repeating  itself.  This  is  the 
same  technique  that  took  eleven  years 
back  in  the  late  20's  and  early  30' s,  some 
of  you  might  remember,  to  make  it 
appear  smart,  modern,  and  acceptable 
for  a  woman  to  be  seen  in  public  with 
a  cigaret.  This  all  started  back  in  1927 
when  the  first  billboard  ad  appeared, 
showing  a  man  and  woman  relaxing 
on  a  beautiful  hilltop.  He  was  smoking, 
and  her  comment  was  simply  this: 
"Please  blow  some  my  way."  Rather 
harmless — -"Please  blow  some  my  way." 
From  this  subtle  beginning,  the  well- 
planned  campaign  took  eleven  years  be- 
fore the  billboard  dared  to  show  a 
woman  with  a  cigaret  in  her  hand  or 
mouth.  Had  the  latter  billboard  been 
shown  at  first,  we  would  have  been  up 
in  arms,  and  something  would  have 
been  done  about  it  in  a  hurry.  And 
now,  unfortunately,  in  this  campaign 
for  the  approval  of  our  children's  minds, 
there  is  hardly  a  TV  commercial  or  a 
tobacco  billboard  that  does  not  include 
a  child  admiring  a  bribed  athlete  who 
is  making  a  statement  that  he  probably 
doesn't  believe  in.  Or  perhaps  we  see 
a  family  situation,  apparently  a  whole- 
some family  situation,  Dad  rollicking 
with  the  children  but  with  a  cigaret  in 
his  hand.  Yes!  Trying  to  start  the  same 
type  of  campaign  all  over  again,  this 
time  aimed  at  children. 

Now,  all  of  this  talk  is  not  designed 
to  show  how  foolish  we  are.  We're  just 
being  victimized.  The  Lord  understood 
all  of  this  well  in  advance,  and  he  told 
us  that  the  very  elect  would  be  deceived 
by  the  "evils  and  designs  ...  of  con- 
spiring men."  I  am  sure  he  had  this  in 
mind.  So  we  condemn  no  one  at  this 
point,  but,  forewarned  is  forearmed. 

May  we  not  stand  idly  by  and  allow 
the  cream  of  the  nation,  our  hope  for 
tomorrow,  the  finest  youth  in  all  history 
to  be  quietly  and  softly  led  away  to 
habits  of  bondage  and  unhappiness! 
Their  only  hope  is  a  parent  who  cares 
enough. 

Incidentally,  would  you  like  to  be  a 


BISHOP  ROBERT  L.  SIMPSON 


55 


better  citizen?  Would  you  like  to  con- 
tribute the  maximum  effort  to  your 
nation  and  community?  Only  those 
who  are  physically  fit  can  expect  to 
make  the  maximum  contribution  and 
fulfil  his  obligation  to  society  as  he 
should. 

Now,  much  is  being  said  about  na- 
tional fitness  in  all  countries.  Let  us 
join  with  other  clear-thinking  citizens 
who  are  not  adverse  to  happiness  and 
joy.  Let's  prove  that  it's  smart  to  do 
what  is  right.  There  is  no  doubt  at 
this  point  what  the  instructions  from 
the  Lord  are. 

Now,  one  country  in  a  recent  na- 
tional survey  found  that  nine  percent 
of  its  national  income  was  being  spent 
for  liquor  and  tobacco.  Assuming  that 
many  of  this  nation  were  abstainers, 
certainly  more  than  ten  percent  of  the 
income  of  those  indulging  was  being 
spent  to  satisfy  their  poor  habits. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  the  Lord 
has  promised  to  open  the  "windows  of 
heaven"  (Mai.  3:10)  to  those  willing 
to  impart  ten  percent  of  their  income  to 
the  upbuilding  of  his  kingdom.  This 
is  perhaps  the  most  gracious,  the  most 
promising,  the  most  generous  of  all 
contracts  offered  by  the  Lord  to  those 
he  loves;  and  yet,  there  are  millions 
who  are  spending  more  than  ten  percent 
to  an  enslaving  habit,  and  instead  of 
opening  the  "windows  of  heaven,"  they 
are  slamming  the  door  on  a  promise 
of  happiness  and  joy  that  no  man,  in  my 
opinion,  has  the  right  to  deny  himself. 

And  so  I  conclude  this  plea  by  turning 
back  to  the  89th  section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  and  here  is  the  promise 
the  Lord  concludes  with,  the  most 
stimulating  promise  of  all  holy  writ 
concerning  the  day-to-day  welfare  of 
his  children. 

"And  all  .  .  .  who  remember  to  keep 
and  do  these  sayings,  walking  in  obedi- 
ence to  the  commandments,  shall  receive 
health  in  their  navel  and  marrow  to 
their  bones; 

"And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great 
treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures; 

"And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and 
shall  walk  and  not  faint. 

"And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a 


promise,  that  the  destroying  angel  shall 
pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel, 
and  not  slay  them.  .  .  ."  (D&C 
89:18-21.) 

And  so,  when  we  obtain  any  blessing 
from  God  it  is  by  obedience  to  that 
law  upon  which  it  is  predicated.  Let's 
heed  Elijah's  challenge.  ".  .  .  How  long 
halt  ye  between  two  opinions?  if  the 
Lord  be  God,  follow  him:  but  if  Baal, 
then  follow  him.  ..."  (1  Kings  18:21.) 

And  so  I  say  in  conclusion,  again  from 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants:  "I,  the 
Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do  what  I 
say;  but  when  ye  do  not  what  I  say, 
ye  have  no  promise."  (D&C  82:10.) 
May  we  be  obedient  to  law  that  we  may 
have  true  joy,  eternal  happiness,  and 
peace  of  mind  is  my  prayer  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  who  has  just  given  that  excellent 
talk  on  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  Bishop 
Robert  L.  Simpson  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric  of  the  Church. 

We  shall  conclude  this  third  session 
of  the  133rd  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  sing- 
ing "Mine  Eyes  Have  Seen  The  Glory 
Of  The  Coming  Of  The  Lord,"  after 
which  the  benediction  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Charles  I.  Sampson,  formerly 
president  of  the  Samoan  Mission.  This 
conference  will  then  be  adjourned  until 
two  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

We  express  deep  appreciation  to  the 
owners  and  managers  of  the  many  tele- 
vision and  radio  stations  who  have  of- 
fered their  facilities  as  a  public  service 
to  make  the  proceedings  of  this  confer- 
ence available  to  millions  throughout 
North  America,  South  America,  Europe, 
Australia,  and  in  many  other  areas  of 
the  world. 

We  express  appreciation  to  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Choir  for  their  presence  here 
on  Saturday.  They  have  the  spirit  of 
the  former  "Minute  Men"  who  were  al- 
ways ready  to  respond  to  the  defense  of 
their  country  at  a  moment's  notice.  We 
shall  not  call  you  "Minute  Men,"  but 
minute  men  and  women,  always  ready 
to  respond  to  every  opportunity  to  render 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  G 

service  to  the  Church  and  to  the  world. 
God  bless  you. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing  "Mine  Eyes 
Have  Seen  The  Glory  Of  The  Coming 
Of  The  Lord."  The  benediction  will  be 
offered  by  Elder  Sampson. 


Second  Day 

The  Choir  sang  the  selection,  "Mine 
Eyes  Have  Seen  The  Glory  Of  The 
Coming  Of  The  Lord." 

Elder  Charles  I.  Sampson,  formerly 
President  of  the  Samoan  Mission,  of- 
fered the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  Conference  reconvened  Saturday 
afternoon,  April  6th,  at  2:00  p.m. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services. 

The  music  for  this  session  of  the  Con- 
ference was  furnished  by  the  Brigham 
Young  University  Chorale,  Kurt  Wein- 
zinger,  Conductor;  Roy  M.  Darley, 
Organist. 

President  McKay  made  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

For  the  information  of  those  who  are 
tuned  in  by  radio  and  television,  we  are 
pleased  to  announce  that  we  are  con- 
vened in  the  famous  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City  in  the 
fourth  session  of  the  133rd  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church.  These  serv- 
ices are  being  broadcast  in  the  Assem- 
bly Hall  by  television.  Those  of  you 
who  are  standing  in  the  doorways 
might  find  seats  over  in  the  Assembly 
Hall. 

This  session  of  the  Conference  will  be 
broadcast  as  a  public  service  over  tele- 
vision and  radio  stations  throughout  the 
West.  The  names  of  the  stations  were 
announced  prior  to  the  beginning  of 
this  meeting.  We  deeply  appreciate  the 
services  that  are  rendered  by  these 
stations. 

You  will  be  interested  in  knowing 
that  this  morning's  session,  in  addition 
to  being  broadcast  direct,  was  video- 
taped for  release  tomorrow  morning  at 
ten  o'clock  (Eastern  Standard  Time)  to 
the  eastern  part  of  the  United  States 
over  119  television  stations.  This  is  the 
reason  why  we  inserted  additional  musi- 
cal numbers  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 


and  were  obliged  to  limit  the  time  given 
to  our  speakers. 

Both  of  the  sessions  today  will  be 
rebroadcast  over  KSL  radio  Sunday 
morning  starting  at  one  o'clock  in  the 
morning,  and  will  be  heard  in  many 
parts  of  the  United  States  and  the 
world,  including  Canada,  Mexico,  Alas- 
ka, and  the  Islands  of  the  Pacific.  A 
delayed  release  will  also  take  the 
Saturday  morning  session  to  viewers  in 
Australia,  and  also  in  Hawaii,  for  the 
first  time.  The  video  tape  is  now  on  its 
way  by  air,  and  will  be  broadcast  Sun- 
day morning  in  Honolulu. 

We  are  pleased  to  note  the  attendance 
this  afternoon  of  special  guests,  promi- 
nent state  and  city  officials,  and  leaders 
in  educational  circles.  To  all  we  extend 
a  hearty  welcome. 

We  are  pleased  to  welcome  our  Stake, 
Ward,  and  Temple  authorities  and  gen- 
eral auxiliary  officers. 

The  singing  for  this  afternoon's  session 
will  be  furnished  by  the  Brigham  Young 
University  Chorale,  conducted  by  Kurt 
Weinzinger,  with  Roy  M.  Darley  at  the 
organ.  We  are  grateful  and  happy  to 
have  these  young  men  and  women  with 
us  this  afternoon. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Chorale  singing  "Let  The  Mountains 
Shout  For  Joy,"  conducted  by  Kurt 
Weinzinger. 

The  invocation  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Richard  C.  Stratford,  formerly 
President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Chor- 
ale sang  the  hymn,  "Let  The  Mountains 
Shout  For  Joy." 

Elder  Richard  C.  Stratford,  formerly 


STATISTICAL  REPORT  1962 


57 


President  of  the  Northern  States  Mis- 
sion, offered  the  invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Richard  C.  Stratford  offered 
the  invocation. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Cho- 
rale will  now  favor  us  with  "High  On 
The  Mountain  Top,"  conducted  by 
Brother  Kurt  Weinzinger. 


After  the  singing  Eider  Joseph  W. 
Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  will 
read  some  important  statistics  pertaining 
to  the  Church,  and  President  Moyle 
will  follow  by  the  presentation  of  the 
Authorities  of  the  Church. 


The  Chorale  sang  the  hymn,  "High 
On  The  Mountain  Top." 


STATISTICAL  REPORT  1962 


The  First  Presidency  has  issued  the  following  Statistical  Report  concerning  the  mem- 
bership of  the  Church  at  the  end  of  the  year  1962. 


Number  of  Stakes  of  Zion  at  close  of  1962    364 

An  increase  of  19  Stakes  during  the  year 

Number  of  Wards   2,891 

Number  of  Independent  Branches  in  Stakes   532 

Total  Wards  and  Independent  Branches  in  Stakes  at  close  of  year   3,423 

Number  of  Mission  Branches  at  close  of  year    1,876 

Number  of  Full-Time  Missions  at  end  of  year 

(Not  Including  Area  Supervisory  Missions)    71 


Church  Membership,  December  31,  1962: 

In  the  Stakes   1,629,965 

In  the  Missions    335,821 

Total  Membership   1,965,786 

A  net  increase  of  142,125  Members  during  the  year 


Church  Growth  during  1962: 


Children  blessed  in  Stakes  and  Missions     -   58,316 

Children  of  record  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions   46,907 

Converts  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions   115,834 

An  increase  of  27,027  over  the  number  of  Convert  Baptisms 

during  the  preceding  year. 

Social  Statistics: 

(Based  on  1962  data  from  the  Stakes) 

Birth  rate  per  thousand    33.16 

Marriage  rate  per  thousand    8.16 

Death  rate  per  thousand   5.42 


Priesthood: 

Members  holding  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  December  31,  1962: 

Deacons    93,488 

Teachers    69,846 

Priests    91,218 

Total  number  holding  Aaronic  Priesthood   254,552 

Members  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  December  31,  1962: 

Elders   172,406 

Seventies    21,233 

High  Priests    55,362 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  6  Second  Day 

Total  number  holding  Melchizedek  Priesthood   -   249,001 

Grand  Total,  members  holding  Aaronic  or  Melchizedek  Priesthood    503,553 

An  increase  of  28,392  during  the  year. 

Auxiliary  Organizations: 

Relief  Society  (Membership)      248,166 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  (average  attendance)   738,363 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association  (enrollment)    204,794 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association  (enrollment)    220,915 

Primary  (children  enrolled)    374,923 

Welfare  Plan: 

Number  of  Persons  assisted  during  the  year   103,154 

Number  placed  in  remunerative  employment   8,831 

Man-days  of  work  donated  to  the  Welfare  Plan   102,322 

Unit-days  of  equipment  use  donated    10,173 

Genealogical  Society: 

Names  cleared  in  1962  for  Temple  Ordinances   853,072 

Genealogical  records  microfilmed  in  13  countries  during  the  year  were  equiva- 
lent to  154,174  printed  volumes  of  approximately  300  pages  per  volume. 

Temples: 

Number  of  ordinances  performed  during  1962  in  the  12  operating  Temples: 

For  the  living    47,745 

For  the  dead    2,566,476 

Total  number  of  ordinances    2,614,221 

Church  School  System: 

Total  1962  cumulative  enrollments  in  Church  Schools,  including 

Institutes,  and  Seminaries    111,145 

Missionaries: 

Number  of  Missionaries  who  at  the  close  of  1962  were  laboring  under  calls 

from  the  First  Presidency  in  the  full-time  missions    11,818 

Number  of  Local  Missionaries  (full-time  and  part-time)  who  at  the  close 

of  1962  were  laboring  in  these  missions    451 

Number  of  Stake  Missionaries  at  the  close  of  the  year   5,523 

Total  number  of  Missionaries  at  end  of  year    17,792 

Number  of  Missionaries  who  received  training  in  the  Missionary  Home 

during  1962    5,568 

THOSE  WHO  HAVE  PASSED  AWAY 
Since  April  Conference,  1962 

Elder  George  Q.  Morris  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles. 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  former  Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church. 

Fern  Tanner  Lee,  wife  of  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles. 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir. 

Lee  A.  Palmer,  Presiding  Bishop's  Office  Field  Representative. 

Robert  D.  Young,  former  president  of  Salt  Lake  and  Manti  Temples,  and  Church  Admin- 
istration Building  Receptionist. 
Martin  V.  Witbeck,  President  of  Kansas  City  Stake. 
Loyal  B.  Cook,  President  of  Craig  Stake. 

Marion  G.  Mcrkley,  Utah  State  Superintendent  of  Public  Instruction,  and  Member  of  the 
Sunday  School  General  Board. 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


59 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Orval  W.  Adams  will  now  give 
the  report  of  the  Church  Financial 
Committee. 


CHURCH  FINANCE  COMMITTEE 
REPORT 

April  1,  1963 

The  First  Presidency 

47  East  South  Temple  Street 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Dear  Brethren: 

We  have  reviewed  the  report  of  the 
1962  financial  operations  of  the  Corpora- 
tion of  the  President  of  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  as  well 
as  of  auxiliaries  and  other  organizations 
for  which  accounts  are  maintained  in 
the  Financial  Department  of  the 
Church.  Attention  was  given  particu- 
larly to  the  accounting  and  auditing 
procedures  followed  as  to  funds  received 
and  to  the  manner  in  which  expendi- 
tures are  controlled.  We  have  deter- 
mined that  the  expenditures  of  such 
funds  are  authorized  by  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  by  budgetary  procedures.  The 
budget  is  authorized  by  the  Council  on 
Disposition  of  the  Tithes  comprised  of 
the  First  Presidency,  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

A  continuous  audit  of  the  financial 
records  of  the  Church  is  conducted  by 
the  Church  Auditing  Department,  which 
is  completely  independent  of  all  other 
departments.  Professional  auditing  firms 


are  employed  to  audit  certain  organiza- 
tions, or  businesses  owned  or  controlled 
by  the  Church. 

Based  upon  our  review  of  the  financial 
reports  of  the  Corporation  of  the  Presi- 
dent of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  and  explanations  made 
by  the  personnel  of  the  Financial  and 
Auditing  Departments  of  the  Church, 
we  are  of  the  opinion  that  the  expendi- 
tures of  funds  during  the  year  1962 
were  made  in  accordance  with  the  estab- 
lished procedures  outlined  herein. 

We  congratulate  the  General  Author- 
ities and  their  associates  for  the  manner 
in  which  the  finances  of  the  Church  are 
administered,  and  we  commend  the 
Church  Financial  Department  and  the 
Church  Auditing  Department  for  the 
expert  and  careful  manner  in  which  all 
financial  records  are  maintained  and 
audited. 

Respectfully  submitted, 

CHURCH  FINANCE 
COMMITTEE 

Orval  W.  Adams 
Glenn  E.  Nielson 
Harold  H.  Bennett 
Wilford  G.  Edling 
Weston  E.  Hamilton 


President  Henry  D.  Moyle: 

It  is  my  very  great  privilege  and  our 
opportunity  to  exercise  one  of  the  great- 
est privileges  we  have  as  members  of 
the  Church  in  voting  upon  the  leaders 
of  the  Church. 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  First  Presidency 

David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Hugh  B.  Brown,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 


60  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  6  Second  Day 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Marion  G.  Romney 

Harold  B.  Lee  LeGrand  Richards 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Richard  L.  Evans 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Howard  W.  Hunter 

Mark  E.  Petersen  Gordon  B.  Hinckley 

Delbert  L.  Stapley  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Patriarch 
10  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Alma  Sonne  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

EIRay  L.  Christiansen  Franklin  D.  Richards 

John  Longden  Theodore  M.  Burton 

Sterling  W.  Sill  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 

Henry  D.  Taylor  Boyd  K.  Packer 

William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr.  Bernard  Park  Brockbank 

Trustee-in-Trust 
David  O.  McKay 

as  Trustee-in-Trust  for  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Marion  D.  Hanks 

Seymour  Dilworth  Young  Albert  Theodore  Tuttlc 
Milton  R.  Flunter 


Presiding  Bishopric 

John  H.  Vandenberg,  Presiding  Bishop 
Robert  L.  Simpson,  First  Counselor 
Victor  L.  Brown,  Second  Counselor 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  and 
Preston  Nibley  as  Assistants. 


GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Louise  Wallace  Madsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 
David  Lawrence  McKay,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Lynn  S.  Richards,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

G.  Carlos  Smith,  Jr.,  General  Superintendent 
Marvin  J.  Ashton,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Carl  W.  Buehner,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Florence  Smith  Jacobsen,  President 
Margaret  Romney  Jackson,  First  Counselor 
Dorothy  Palmer  Holt,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


Primary  Association 

LaVern  Watts  Parmley,  President 
Leone  Watson  Doxey,  First  Counselor 
Eileen  Robinson  Dunyon,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


Church  Board  of  Education 


David  O.  McKay 
Henry  D.  Moyle 
Hugh  B.  Brown 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Harold  B.  Lee 
Spencer  W.  Kimball 
Ezra  Taft  Benson 
Mark  E.  Petersen 
Delbert  L.  Stapley 
Marion  G.  Romney 


LeGrand  Richards 
Richard  L.  Evans 
Howard  W.  Hunter 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley 
Nathan  Eldon  Tanner 
Boyd  K.  Packer 
Marion  D.  Hanks 
Albert  Theodore  Tuttle 
John  H.  Vandenberg 


Chancellor  of  the  Church  School  System 
Ernest  L.  Wilkinson 


Church  Finance  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams 
Harold  H.  Bennett 
Wilford  G.  Edling 
Glenn  E.  Nielson 
Weston  E.  Hamilton 


Senior  Church  Auditors 


Harold  L.  Davis 
Charles  Schmidt 


62 

Saturday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 
CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 


Second  Day 


Advisers 


Harold  B.  Lee 
Delbert  L.  Stapley 
Marion  G.  Romney 
LeGrand  Richards 
Howard  W.  Hunter 
Alma  Sonne 
EIRay  L.  Christiansen 


John  Longden 
Henry  D.  Taylor 
Antoine  R.  Ivins 
John  H.  Vandenberg 
Robert  L.  Simpson 
Victor  L.  Brown 


and  the  General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 

General  Church  Welfare  Committee 

John  H.  Vandenberg,  Chairman 
Henry  D.  Taylor,  Managing  Director 
Paul  C.  Child  Walter  Stover 

Mark  B.  Garff  A.  Lewis  Elggren 

William  T.  Lawrence  Donald  Ellsworth 

Lorenzo  H.  Hatch  Casper  H.  Parker 

Walter  Dansie  Alfred  B.  Smith 

LeRoy  A.  Wirthlin 


Tabernacle  Choir 

Isaac  M.  Stewart,  President 
Theodore  L.  Cannon,  Vice  President 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Conductor 
Jay  E.  Welch,  Assistant  Conductor 
W.  Jack  Thomas,  Tour  Manager 


Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 


President  Henry  D.  Moyle: 

President  McKay,  I  am  happy  to  re- 
port the  voting  has  been  unanimous  in 
the  affirmative. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Thank  you,  brethren  and  sisters.  That 


is  just  the  beginning  of  your  sustaining 
of  the  General  Authorities.  The  acts 
will  come  later. 

Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  first 
speaker.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
EIRay  L.  Christiansen. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  Brothers  and  Sisters,  and  especially 
my  friends  of  the  radio  and  television 
audience: 

May  I  tell  you  of  a  great  adventure? 
As  I  traveled  to  a  weekend  assignment, 
I  took  with  me  an  unusual  book  which 


was  my  constant  companion.  I  could 
lay  it  down  only  to  sleep,  eat,  and 
change  trains.  It  fascinated  me,  capti- 
vated me,  and  held  me  spellbound  with 
its  irresistible  charm  and  engaging  in- 
terest.  I  have  read  it  many  times. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


63 


As  I  finished  it,  I  closed  the  book  and 
sat  back,  absorbed  as  I  relived  its  con- 
tents. Its  pages  held  me,  bound  me, 
and  my  eyes  were  riveted  to  them.  I 
knew  the  book  was  factual,  but  as  has 
been  said,  "Truth  is  stranger  than 
fiction." 

I  am  constrained  to  speak  to  you  of  it 
today.  It  is  a  story  of  courage,  faith, 
and  fortitude,  of  perseverance,  sacrifice, 
and  super-human  accomplishments,  of 
intrigue,  of  revenge,  of  disaster,  of  war, 
murder,  and  rapine,  of  idolatry,  and  of 
cannibalism,  of  miracles,  visions,  and 
manifestations,  of  prophecies  and  their 
fulfilment. 

I  found  in  it  life  at  its  best  and  at 
its  worst,  in  ever-changing  patterns.  I 
hardly  recovered  from  one  great  crisis 
until  another  engulfed  me. 

Across  the  stage  of  this  drama  of  life 
through  the  ages,  marched  actors  in 
exotic,  colorful  costumes  from  the 
blood-painted  nudity  of  the  warrior  to 
the  lavish,  ornamented  pageantry  of 
royal  courts — some  actors  loathsome  and 
degraded,  others  so  near  perfection  that 
they  conversed  with  angels  and  with 
God.  There  are  the  sowers  and  reapers, 
the  artisans,  the  engineers,  the  traders, 
and  the  toilers,  the  rake  in  his  de- 
bauchery, the  alcoholic  with  his  liquor, 
the  pervert  rotting  in  his  sex,  the  war- 
rior in  his  armor,  the  missionary  on 
his  knees. 

This  dramatic  story  is  one  of  the 
greatest  ever  played  by  man.  The 
noted  tragedians  fumble  their  lines.  It 
is  played  "on  location"  with  no  false 
fronts  for  scenery.  It  is  a  fast-moving 
story  of  total  life,  of  opposing  ideologies, 
of  monarchies  and  judgeships  and 
mobocracies.  Its  scenes  carry  the 
reader  across  oceans  and  continents.  It 
promises  to  tell  of  the  "last  days  of 
God,"  but  instead  records  the  "last  days 
of  populous  peoples"  and  the  triumph 
of  God.  Class  distinction  is  there  with 
its  ugliness,  race  prejudice  with  its  hate- 
fulness,  multiplicity  of  creeds  with  their 
bitter  conflicts. 

Since  this  book,  a  "best  seller"  left  its 
first  press,  it  is  printed  in  more  than 
two  dozen  languages,  more  than  a  half 
million  copies  a  year,  and  millions  of 
copies  are  in  libraries,  public  and  pri- 
vate, and  in  numerous  hotels  and  motels 


along  with  the  Gideon  Bible.  Even  the 
blind  may  read  it  in  three  thick  books 
of  Braille.  Can  anyone  be  considered 
to  be  well-read  who  has  not  perused 
this  pretentious  volume  which  makes 
such  bold  claims? 

Its  story  has  a  vital  message  to  all 
people.  The  gentiles  will  find  the  his- 
tory of  their  past  and  the  potential  of 
their  destiny;  and  the  Jewish  people, 
the  blueprint  of  their  future.  The  cove- 
nants of  God  to  them  are  unfolded,  as 
are  the  promises  regarding  Jerusalem, 
their  ancient  city,  and  their  lands.  And 
it  is  revealed  how  the  Jews,  so  long 
persecuted,  scattered  and  tortured  since 
their  dispersion,  may  come  into  their 
own.  And  the  gentiles  are  warned  that 
they  must  ".  .  .  no  longer  hiss,  nor 
spurn  nor  make  game  of  the  Jews,  nor 
any  of  the  remnant  of  the  House  of 
Israel"  for  the  Lord  will  remember  his 
covenant  to  them  when  they  respond. 
It  is  the  life  story  of  the  ancestors  of 
the  Indians  and  accounts  for  their 
dark  skins. 

Archaeologists  may  be  excited  as  they 
read  of  ruins  of  ancient  cities,  highways, 
and  buildings;  and  there  may  yet  be 
hidden  buried  gold  and  priceless  rec- 
ords. Locations  may  be  approximated, 
for  instance  the  narrow  neck  of  land 
which  was  fortified  from  the  "East  sea 
to  the  West  sea"  was  but  a  "day's 
journey  for  a  Nephite." 

Journalists  will  find  in  this  book  crisis 
after  crisis,  presenting  rich  material  for 
limitless  climactic  stories,  articles,  plays, 
and  operas.  A  struggling  movie  indus- 
try might  here  find  material  which  could 
increase  box  office  receipts. 

This  unparalleled  book  should  in- 
trigue navigators:  unprecedented  land 
treks  near-unbelievable  in  length, 
scope,  and  hazard  are  chronicled  and 
ocean  crossings,  and  the  circling  of  the 
world  centuries  before  the  Vikings — 
crossings  fraught  with  all  the  dangers 
imaginable,  including  storms,  hidden 
reefs,  hurricanes,  and  even  mutiny.  This 
first  recorded  ocean  crossing  was  about 
forty  centuries  ago,  of  seaworthy,  ocean- 
going vessels  without  known  sails,  en- 
gines, oars,  or  rudders — eight  barges 
like  and  near  contemporary  with  Noah's 
ark,  long  as  a  tree,  tight  as  a  dish, 
peaked  at  the  end  like  a  gravy  boat, 


64  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  6 

(see  Ether  2:17)  corked  at  top  and 
bottom,  illuminated  by  molten  stones 
(see  ibid.,  2:20,  3:1  ff.),  perhaps  with 
radium  or  some  other  substance  not  yet 
rediscovered  by  our  scientists.  Light 
and  like  a  foul  upon  the  water,  this  fleet 
of  barges  was  driven  by  winds  and 
ocean  currents,  landing  at  a  common 
point  in  North  America  probably  on  the 
west  shores. 

The  reader  may  follow  with  wonder 
another  crossing  of  the  ocean  which 
was  made  by  a  Jewish  group  led  by  a 
prince,  the  son  of  Jerusalem's  king,  and 
of  a  third  migration  and  voyage,  per- 
haps the  greatest  in  all  of  history, 
dimming  even  that  of  the  Saints  from 
Illinois  to  the  Salt  Lake  Valley,  and 
even  of  Moses'  Israel  from  Egypt  to 
their  promised  land.  These  people 
abandoned  Jerusalem  on  the  eve  of  its 
destruction  by  Nebuchadnezzar  and 
probably  landed  on  the  west  coast  of 
South  America  where  the  ocean  cur- 
rents drove  them  later  to  meet  and  com- 
bine with  remnants  of  the  earlier 
migrants;  this  greatest  movement  was 
made  in  a  ship  constructed  by  a  young 
builder  who  may  never  have  seen  an 
ocean-going  vessel.  If  the  party  of  the 
prince  sailed  west  and  the  prophets 
east  they  would  have  circumnavigated 
the  world  from  Jerusalem,  their  people 
finally  meeting  in  this  western  world. 
The  vessels  were  sufficiently  large  to 
carry  food  and  seeds. 

There  was  no  welcoming  committee 
to  meet  these  adventurers  as  there  was 
to  meet  Columbus  and  the  pilgrims. 

This  remarkable  book  tells  again  of 
movements  of  great  bodies  of  people — 
5,400  in  one  group,  sailing  northward 
on  the  Pacific  side  in  very  large  ships, 
seeking  for  new  worlds  to  conquer,  some 
of  whom  likely  drawn  into  the  strong 
westward  ocean  currents  to  find  the 
"isles  of  the  sea"  and  to  become  the 
progenitors  of  the  Polynesians. 

The  people  in  Jerusalem  knew  noth- 
ing of  the  whereabouts  of  these  fellow 
Israelites  in  the  western  world,  but 
those  here  knew  of  the  happenings  in 
Palestine  such  as  the  destruction  of 
Jerusalem  and  the  captivity  under 
Nebuchadnezzar  and  when  the  Christ 
was  born  in  Bethlehem,  crucified  on 
Calvary,  and  when  he  ascended  from 


Second  Day 

the  Mount  of  Olives,  yet  no  ships  were 
carrying  mail;  no  telephone  wires  were 
humming;  no  radio  sets  were  operating; 
no  cables  yet  snaked  across  ocean  floors. 

The  student  of  economics  will  find  in 
this  unusual  book  the  disintegration  of 
nations  through  pride,  soft  living,  and 
luxuries,  terminating  finally  in  hunger 
and  fetters.  He  will  see  unified  peoples 
fighting  for  liberty  and  then  class  wars 
destroying  those  freedoms.  One  will  see 
the  land  waving  with  ripening  grain, 
the  silkworm  spinning,  flocks  and  herds 
grazing,  vineyards  and  orchards  bear- 
ing, and  a  richly  adorned  and  bejeweled 
people.  He  will  see  stone  quarries  and 
lumber  mills  and  mines  and  craftshops, 
and  then  devastated  landscapes,  burned 
homes,  parched  earth,  warring  antago- 
nists, and  deserted  lands.  He  will  see 
towers  and  temples  and  kingly  courts 
and  palaces  of  the  rich  and  their  luxury, 
and  dissipation,  immorality,  and  de- 
bauchery, comparable  to  that  in  Baby- 
lon, Jerusalem,  and  Rome. 

He  will  see  people  thriving  in 
communal  living,  and  taxed  from  fifty 
percent,  and  then  to  totalness,  to 
slavery,  and  to  bondage.  He  will  see 
power-greedy  paternalistic,  centralized 
governments  move  toward  the  inevitable 
revolution  which  finally  impoverishes 
but  frees  the  people  to  begin  again 
from  ashes. 

The  astronomer  and  geologist  here 
may  see  signs  in  the  heavens  and  new 
stars  come  into  focus,  three  days  without 
sun  or  any  reflected  light,  and  nights 
without  darkness,  bright  "as  the  midday 
sun"  (see  3  Ne.  1:19)  and  a  vapor  of 
darkness  so  impenetrable  that  no  glim- 
mer, nor  candles,  nor  torches,  nor  fire 
could  give  any  light.  A  great  storm 
came  "such  an  one  as  never  had  been 
known  in  all  the  land"  (see  ibid.,  8:5), 
certainly  since  Noah's  forty-day  pouring, 
and  perhaps  drowning  more  people  than 
since  the  deluge,  and  terrible  tempests, 
thunder,  and  sharp  lightnings,  and 
whirlwinds  of  tornadic  and  hurricane 
proportions,  swift  enough  to  carry  away 
people  never  to  be  heard  of  again — 
twistings,  foldings,  whirlings,  slidings, 
faultings,  and  tremblings  of  hours  of 
duration  to  cause  landslides  burying 
great  cities  perhaps  more  extensive  than 
the  Bali's,  Iran's,  Assam's,  and  Chile's, 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


65 


perhaps  interring  in  a  few  hours  more 
people  than  ever  in  the  history  of  the 
world.  Tidal  waves  swallowed  entire 
communities,  and  fire  consumed  many 
cities  and  human  bodies.  The  labors 
of  centuries  were  embalmed  in  ashes  to 
a  greater  degree  than  Pompeii  and 
Herculaneum;  and  earth  convulsions 
of  such  intensity  and  prolongation  that 
"the  face  of  the  whole  earth  was  de- 
formed" (see  ibid.,  8:17),  these  earth 
spasms  being  a  revolt  by  the  created 
earth  against  the  crucifixion  of  its 
Creator. 

Engineers  will  learn  from  this  great 
book  that  those  centuries  ago,  men 
erected  buildings,  temples,  and  high- 
ways with  cement,  and  paved  roads 
connected  city  to  city  and  land  to  land, 
and  when  forests  had  been  denuded,  a 
reforestation  program  was  initiated  for 
the  future. 

The  psychologists  may  find  studies 
in  human  behavior  and  the  workings 
of  the  human  mind  and  the  rationaliz- 
ing processes  where  men  convince  them- 
selves that  "good  is  bad,  and  that  bad 
is  good."  Here  they  will  watch  history 
unfold  for  thousands  of  years  and  see 
not  only  episodes  in  the  lives  of  indi- 
viduals but  causes  and  effects  in  a  total 
history  of  races. 

The  educator  will  find  treasures  of 
literature  and  poetry.  He  will  see  how 
language  used  to  log  their  day-to-day 
experiences  can  be  corrupted  when  not 
properly  written,  from  an  expressive 
tongue  of  the  educated  to  numerous, 
corrupted  dialects  of  degenerated  peo- 
ples, proving  that  to  survive,  people 
must  be  educated  on  every  front — 
physical,  mental,  spiritual,  moral — and 
that  anything  short  of  that  will  bring 
ultimate  disaster. 

This  comprehensive  book  should  be 
studied  by  politicians,  government  lead- 
ers, kings,  presidents,  and  premiers  to 
see  the  rise  and  fall  of  empires,  and  the 
difference  between  statesmanship  and 
demagoguery.  They  will  see  nations 
born  in  war,  live  in  war,  deteriorate  in 
war,  and  die  in  war  through  the  cen- 
turies. They  may  find  answers  to  prob- 
lems of  capital  and  labor,  of  dishonesty, 
graft  and  fraud,  of  dissentions,  internal 
rupture,  and  civil  wars. 

In  this  uncommon  book  is  seen  that 


chief  judges,  frustrated  by  growing  cor- 
ruption, resign  from  judgment  seats  to 
proselyte  for  righteousness;  that  princes 
prefer  to  teach  men  rather  than  to  rule 
over  them;  that  kings  have  tilled  the 
earth  providing  their  own  living  to  serve 
the  people  rather  than  to  become 
burdensome  to  them  and  levy  upon 
them  confiscatory  taxes;  that  rulers  are 
loved  and  not  feared. 

Scientists  will  read  of  unusual  instru- 
ments never  patented  or  remade  or 
duplicated,  of  elements  which,  without 
recharging,  illuminate  dark  spaces  in- 
definitely, that  at  least  fifteen  hundred 
years  before  Columbus  these  Westerners 
knew  that  the  earth  is  round  and  re- 
volved about  the  sun,  and  of  a  special 
instrument,  not  yet  equaled  even  in  our 
own  day  with  all  of  our  laboratories  and 
knowledge,  like  a  round  ball,  made  of 
brass,  curious  in  workmanship,  with  two 
spindles,  so  sensitive  that  it  was  not 
limited  to  the  cardinal  points  of  the 
compass  but  would  actually  give  guid- 
ance regardless  of  direction,  recording 
the  feelings,  emotions,  and  inner  rebel- 
lions of  men  and  would  function  prop- 
erly only  where  there  was  not  human, 
mental,  and  moral  discord.  This  instru- 
ment would  point  the  way  to  the 
prevalence  of  animals  to  be  hunted  for 
food  and  was  operated  by  faith  rather 
than  by  electricity  or  other  natural 
elements — an  instrument  on  which 
would  be  writing  changed  from  time 
to  time,  plain  to  read,  increasing  the 
understanding  of  those  who  read  it. 

Military  men  may  learn  much  in 
strategy,  intrigue,  in  movements,  in 
morale.  They  may  learn  that  centuries 
before  the  discovery  of  America,  the 
ancients  had  cement  buildings,  temples, 
and  highways  connecting  cities  and 
lands,  and  metal  tools  for  tilling  ground, 
and  munitions  factories  for  making 
weapons  of  war,  and  forges  to  beat 
"plow-shares  into  swords,  and  pruning- 
hooks  into  spears."  (See  2  Ne.  12:4.) 
They  may  learn  how  cold  war  can  be 
kept  in  deep  freeze. 

Guerrilla  warfare,  sieges,  and  the 
scorched-earth  policy  were  not  origi- 
nated in  Civil  War  days  nor  in  Russia 
but  were  programs  of  survival,  initiated 
long  centuries  before  Columbus,  Pizarro, 
and  Cortez. 


66 

Saturday,  April  6 

They  may  learn  that  wars  of  aggres- 
sion with  soldiers,  idolatrous  and 
adulterous,  who  leave  God  out  of  their 
lives,  will  in  the  end  be  futile  and 
disastrous. 

They  will  learn  that  great  cultures 
stagnate  in  war  shadows  and  cease  to 
survive  when  continuous  wars  make 
people  migrants,  when  fields  are 
abandoned,  livestock  appropriated  for 
nonproducing  soldiers,  forests  destroyed 
without  replanting,  and  when  farmers 
and  builders  become  warriors,  and 
businessmen  shoulder  arms  and  teachers 
mobilize.  Men  cannot  plant,  cultivate, 
and  harvest  when  in  camps,  nor  build 
when  on  the  run.  Long  and  bloody 
wars  mean  sacked,  burned,  ruined  cities, 
confiscatory  taxes,  degenerated  peoples, 
and  decayed  cultures. 

Victory  and  defeat  alike  leave  coun- 
tries devastated  and  the  conqueror  and 
the  conquered  reduced.  Wickedness 
brings  war,  and  war  vomits  destruction 
and  suffering,  hate  and  bloodshed  upon 
the  guilty  and  the  innocent. 

This  impressive  book  should  convince 
all  living  souls  of  the  futility  of  war  and 
the  hazards  of  unrighteousness.  A  few 
prophets,  swimming  in  a  sea  of  bar- 
barism, find  it  difficult  to  prevent  the 
crumbling  and  final  collapse  of  corrupt 
peoples. 

To  you  of  the  Americas,  who  are 
terrified  by  the  daily  papers,  who  trem- 
ble at  "The  sound  of  a  shaken  leaf," 
who  build  shelters  in  fear  of  guided 
missiles,  hydrogen  bombs,  and  biological 
warfare — to  you,  there  is  this  condi- 
tional promise  coming  from  this  book 
of  truth: 

".  .  .  this  land  shall  be  a  land  of 
liberty  unto  the  Gentiles,  and  there 
shall  be  no  kings  upon  the  land.  .  .  . 

"And  I  will  fortify  this  land  against 
all  other  nations. 

".  .  .  I,  the  Lord,  the  king  of  heaven 
will  be  their  king,  and  I  will  be  a  light 
unto  them  forever,  that  hear  my  words." 
(Ibid.,  10:11-12,  14.  Italics  added.) 

This  single  volume  records  for  his- 
torians about  twenty-six  centuries  of 
stirring  life,  not  generally  known  even 
to  the  most  highly  trained  professors  of 
history.  It  tells  of  the  ancestries  of 
those  whose  spectacular  monuments  are 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

now  observed  in  South  and  Central 
America  and  in  the  Mexican  jungles. 

In  this  wondrous  book,  ministers  and 
priests  can  find  texts  for  sermons,  and 
men  generally  can  find  final  and  author- 
itative answers  to  difficult  questions: 
Is  there  life  after  death?  Will  the  body 
be  literally  resurrected?  Where  do  the 
spirits  of  men  go  between  death  and 
the  resurrection?  Can  one  be  saved  in 
unchastity?  What  is  the  correct  organ- 
ization of  Christ's  Church?  Can  one 
be  saved  without  baptism?  Why  is  it 
wrong  to  baptize  infants?  Is  specific 
authority  essential  to  administer  ordi- 
nances? Is  continuous  revelation  neces- 
sary and  a  reality?  Is  Jesus  the  actual 
Son  of  God? 

Here  is  recorded  the  glorious  coming 
of  the  Savior  to  his  temple  in  America. 
He  blessed  the  little  children  and  wept 
as  angels  descended  out  of  heaven  and 
encircled  them.  He  organized  his 
Church  with  twelve  apostles  called  dis- 
ciples to  whom  were  given  the  same 
priesthood,  authority,  and  keys  which 
their  contemporaries,  Peter,  James,  and 
John  held  in  the  other  land. 

The  coming  of  the  Resurrected  Re- 
deemer to  this  land  was  spectacular — 
the  small  piercing  voice  from  heaven 
heard  at  Jordan  and  Transfiguration's 
Mount  awed  them  as  it  announced: 

"Behold  my  Beloved  Son,  in  whom  I 
am  well  pleased,  in  whom  I  have  glori- 
fied my  name — hear  ye  him."  (3  Nephi 
11:7.) 

And  then  they  saw  a  man  descending 
out  of  heaven  in  white  robes,  and  he 
stood  in  their  midst  saying:  "Behold,  I 
am  Jesus  Christ,  ...  I  am  the  God  of 
Israel  and  the  God  of  the  whole  earth 
and  have  been  slain  for  the  sins  of  the 
world."  (See  ibid.,  11:10,  14.)  And  the 
multitude  thrust  their  hands  into  his 
side  and  felt  the  prints  of  the  nails 
and  knew  of  a  surety  that  this  was  the 
very  Christ  so  recently  crucified  across 
the  sea,  and  so  recently  ascended  into 
heaven,  and  now  among  them  to  teach 
them  his  saving  gospel. 

This  historical  book  tells  of  three 
men,  who,  like  John  the  Revelator,  are 
still  on  earth  though  it  is  nearly  two 
thousand  years  since  their  mortal  birth — 
men  who  have  not  suffered  the  pains 
of  death,  but  who  have  control  over  the 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


67 


elements  and  who  make  themselves 
known  at  will  and  go  anywhere  on  the 
globe  when  needed  and  who  cannot  be 
imprisoned,  burned  in  the  furnace,  nor 
buried  in  pits,  nor  held  in  prison,  nor 
destroyed  by  beasts;  for,  like  the  three 
Hebrews,  superhuman  power  and  pro- 
tection have  been  given  them. 

This  narrative  tells  of  people  with 
such  faith  that  they  buried  their  weap- 
ons to  die  victims  of  enemies  rather 
than  take  lives;  of  boys  who  had  in- 
herited great  faith  from  their  mothers 
who  had  trained  them  to  trust  in  God 
and  they  would  be  protected.  It  tells 
of  the  fulfilment  when  2,060  of  them 
were  saved  though  they  fought  in  many 
battles  in  which  men  all  around  them 
died,  but  because  of  the  faith  of  their 
mothers  and  the  sons,  not  one  of  the 
2,060  suffered  death.  In  this  battle  of 
defense,  not  one  boy  lost  his  life. 

But  after  all,  it  is  not  the  book's  dra- 
matic crises,  its  history,  its  narrative 
that  are  so  important,  but  its  power  to 
transform  men  into  Christlike  beings 
worthy  of  exaltation. 

It  is  the  word  of  God.  It  is  a  power- 
ful second  witness  of  Christ.  And, 
certainly,  all  true  believers  who  love  the 
Redeemer  will  welcome  additional 
evidence  of  his  divinity. 

This  inspiring  book  was  never  tam- 
pered with  by  unauthorized  translators 
or  biased  theologians  but  comes  to  the 
world  pure  and  directly  from  the  his- 
torians and  abridgers.  The  book  is  not 
on  trial — its  readers  are. 

Here  is  a  scripture  as  old  as  creation 
and  as  new  and  vibrant  as  tomorrow, 
bridging  time  and  eternity;  it  is  a  book 
of  revelations  and  is  a  companion  to  the 
Bible  brought  from  Europe  by  immi- 
grants and  agrees  in  surprising  har- 
mony with  that  Bible  in  tradition,  his- 
tory, doctrine,  and  prophecy;  and  the 
two  were  written  simultaneously  on  two 
hemispheres  under  diverse  conditions. 
It  records  the  very  words  people  would 
say  when  this  hidden  record  should  be 
presented  to  them. 

"...  A  Bible!  A  Bible!  We  have  got 
a  Bible,  and  there  cannot  be  any  more 
Bible. 

"But  thus  saith  the  Lord  God:  O 
fools,  they  shall  have  a  Bible;  and  it 
shall  proceed  forth  from  the  Jews,  .  .  . 


"Thou  fool,  that  shall  say:  A  Bible, 
we  have  got  a  Bible,  and  we  need  no 
more  Bible.  .  .  . 

"...  I  rule  in  the  heavens  above  and 
in  the  earth  beneath;  and  I  bring  forth 
my  word  unto  the  children  of  men,  yea, 
even  upon  all  the  nations  of  the  earth? 

"Wherefore  murmur  ye,  because  that 
ye  shall  receive  more  of  my  word?  Know 
ye  not  that  the  testimony  of  two  nations 
is  a  witness  unto  you  that  I  am  God, 
that  I  remember  one  nation  like  unto 
another?  .  .  . 

"And  I  do  this  that  I  may  prove  unto 
many  that  I  am  the  same  yesterday, 
today,  and  forever;  .  .  .  And  because 
that  I  have  spoken  one  word  ye  need 
not  suppose  that  I  cannot  speak  another; 
for  my  work  is  not  yet  finished;  .  .  . 

"Wherefore,  because  that  ye  have  a 
Bible  ye  need  not  suppose  that  it  con- 
tains all  my  words;  neither  need  ye 
suppose  that  I  have  not  caused  more  to 
be  written. 

"For  I  command  all  men,  both  in  the 
east  and  the  west,  and  in  the  north,  and 
in  the  south,  and  in  the  islands  of  the 
sea,  that  they  shall  write  the  words 
which  I  speak  unto  them;  for  out  of  the 
books  which  shall  be  written  I  will 
judge  the  world,  every  man  according 
to  their  works,  according  to  that  which 
is  written. 

"For  behold,  I  shall  speak  unto  the 
Jews  and  they  shall  write  it;  and  I 
shall  also  speak  unto  the  Nephites  and 
they  shall  write  it;  and  I  shall  also 
speak  unto  the  other  tribes  of  the  house 
of  Israel,  which  I  have  led  away,  and 
they  shall  write  it;  .  .  ."  (2  Nephi 
29:3-12.  Italics  added.) 

Then  he  says  he  will  gather  the  three 
folds  into  one  fold,  and  he  will  be  their 
shepherd.  And  the  records  of  the  ten 
tribes  are  still  to  be  recovered.  "And  it 
shall  come  to  pass  that  the  Jews  shall 
have  the  words  of  the  Nephites,  and  the 
Nephites  shall  have  the  words  of  the 
Jews;  and  the  Nephites  and  the  Jews 
shall  have  the  words  of  the  lost  tribes 
of  Israel;  and  the  lost  tribes  of  Israel 
shall  have  the  words  of  the  Nephites 
and  the  Jews. 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  my 
people,  which  are  of  the  house  of 
Israel,  shall  be  gathered  home  unto  the 
lands  of  their  possessions;  and  my  word 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  6 

also  shall  be  gathered  into  one." 
(Ibid.,  29:13-14.) 

We  seem  to  hear  the  Almighty  warn: 
"Fools  mock,  and  they  shall  mourn," 
and,  "Woe  be  unto  him  that  rejecteth 
the  word  of  God."  One  prophet  wrote: 
".  .  .  And  if  ye  shall  believe  in  Christ  ye 
will  believe  in  these  words,  for  they  are 
the  words  of  Christ,  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  33:10.) 

In  the  final  chapter  of  the  book  is  the 
never-failing  promise  that  every  person 
who  will  read  the  book  with  a  sincere, 
prayerful  desire  to  know  of  its  divinity 
shall  have  the  assurance. 

The  book  of  which  I  speak  is  the  key- 
stone of  true  religion,  the  ladder  by 
which  one  may  get  near  to  God  by 


Second  Day 

abiding  its  precepts.  It  has  been  named, 
"The  most  correct  of  any  book  on  earth." 

My  beloved  friends,  I  give  to  you  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  May  you  read  it 
prayerfully,  study  it  carefully,  and  re- 
ceive for  yourselves  the  testimony  of  its 
divinity.  This,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
our  Savior  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  speaker  to  whom  we  have  just 
listened  is  Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

Elder  EIRay  L.  Christiansen,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us. 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  with 
you  I  have  been  edified  by  all  that 
has  taken  place  in  the  various  sessions 
of  this  great  conference — the  music,  the 
wonderful  discourses,  the  prayers,  and 
your  presence  here.  I  think  I  have  never 
been  so  pleased  and  thrilled  to  see  the 
great  sea  of  hands  raised  in  unanimously 
sustaining  those  whose  names  were 
presented  a  few  minutes  ago,  indicating 
that  there  is  unity  in  the  Church. 

I  come  to  you  in  humility  this  after- 
noon and  with  a  firm  conviction  that 
God  lives;  that  this  is  not  just  another 
Church  which  we  represent,  but  it  is 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ;  that  sitting 
on  this  rostrum  is  the  prophet  of  this 
day,  surrounded  by  just  and  wholesome 
men  who  are  each  endowed  with  the 
authority  and  the  power  to  act  in  the 
name  of  God  and  direct  the  work  of 
the  Lord  in  all  the  world  in  prepara- 
tion for  his  coming  to  receive  his 
kingdom. 

I  come  to  you  with  the  assurance  that 
this  Church  was  established,  not  to 
fail,  but  to  continue,  never  to  be  de- 
stroyed nor  left  to  another  people;  for 
the  Lord  has  said: 

"The  works,  and  the  designs,  and  the 
purposes  of  God  cannot  be  frustrated, 
neither  can  they  come  to  naught. 

"Remember,  remember  that  it  is  not 


the  work  of  God  that  is  frustrated,  but 
the  work  of  men";  (D&C  3:1,  3.) 

I  have  no  doubt  that  his  promises  to 
all  people  will  be  fulfilled  in  his  own 
due  time  and  in  his  own  way,  both  to 
the  righteous  and  to  the  wicked.  We 
are  living  in  a  day  foretold  by  the  Savior 
as  a  time  of  wars  and  rumors  of  wars, 
of  famines  and  of  pestilences  and  of 
earthquakes.  A  day  when,  in  a  sup- 
posedly cultured  society,  greed  and  lust 
for  power,  subterfuge  and  cruelty  are 
seen  at  their  worst.  This  day  was 
described  by  Paul  in  these  words: 

"For  men  shall  be  lovers  of  their  own 
selves,  covetous,  boasters,  proud,  blas- 
phemers, disobedient  to  parents,  un- 
thankful, unholy, 

"Without  natural  affection,  truce- 
breakers,  false  accusers,  incontinent, 
fierce,  despisers  of  those  that  are  good, 

"Traitors,  heady,  highminded,  lovers 
of  pleasures  more  than  lovers  of  God"; 
(2  Tim.  3:2-4.) 

Now,  thank  goodness,  that  doesn't  in- 
clude everybody,  but  there  are  many  I 
am  sure  who  fit  into  some  of  those 
categories.  If  there  are  any  into  which 
we  fit,  or  if  any  of  us  have  these  blem- 
ishes upon  us,  I  hope  that  we  will  go 
from  these  meetings  with  the  determina- 
tion to  throw  them  off. 

Now,  despite  these  conditions  that 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 


69 


Paul  described,  this  is  a  favored  time 
and  a  favored  day  of  the  Lord.  We 
ought  to  be  thankful  that  we  live  in 
this  particular  day,  notwithstanding  all 
the  fears  and  the  troubles  and  the 
anxieties  which  come  upon  us  because 
of  unsettled  conditions  that  prevail  in 
the  world.  Our  gratitude  comes  mainly 
because  we  are  the  glad  recipients  of  the 
restored  gospel  brought  back  to  earth 
in  the  fulfilment  of  prophecy,  in  its 
fulness  as  a  prescription  for  successful 
living  and  for  salvation.  There  is  no 
need  to  walk  in  darkness  or  in  uncer- 
tainty. In  our  day  the  Church  has  the 
vision  and  the  inspiration  and  the  word 
of  the  Lord  to  give  to  the  people  to 
keep  them  from  the  pitfalls  of  life,  from 
sorrow,  regret,  and  failure.  In  this  day 
of  the  Church  there  has  been  a  great 
expanse  of  the  Church  itself.  The  gos- 
pel is  being  widely  preached;  buildings 
are  being  constructed;  temples  have  been 
and  are  being  erected;  work  for  the  dead 
is  increasing;  and  people  are  accepting 
the  gospel,  all  of  these  in  an  unprece- 
dented way. 

Now,  while  we  see  the  Church  mov- 
ing on  unfalteringly  toward  its  decreed 
destiny,  we  must  remember  that  salva- 
tion for  each  of  us  must  be  worked  out 
on  an  individual  basis.  For  a  few  mo- 
ments let  us  draw  our  world  into  the 
range  of  my  voice  while  we  consider  two 
or  three  principles  which  are  indispen- 
sable to  individual  and  even  collective 
salvation. 

How  about  the  Sabbath  day,  which 
was  discussed  so  eloquently  by  Presi- 
dent Joseph  Fielding  Smith  yesterday? 
Is  it  observed  as  the  Lord's  day?  Are 
you  and  your  family  found  where  you 
ought  to  be  and  doing  what  you  ought 
to  be  doing  on  that  day?  I  recently 
learned  of  a  father  who  habitually  took 
his  wife  and  children  to  the  mountains 
or  to  various  other  places  on  the  Sab- 
bath day  rather  than  taking  them  to 
church  where  they  belonged.  As  he 
was  hurrying  them  to  get  ready  one 
Sunday  morning,  his  smallest  boy  said, 
"Daddy,  why  can't  we  stay  home  and 
go  to  church  like  the  other  kids  do?" 
"Oh,  come  along,"  said  the  father,  "we 
can  sing  and  pray  together  in  the  moun- 
tains." The  little  boy  said  rather  sadly, 


"I  know  we  can,  but  we  won't,  will 
we,  Daddy?" 

"And  that  thou  mayest  more  fully 
keep  thyself  unspotted  from  the  world, 
thou  shalt  go  to  the  house  of  prayer 
and  offer  up  thy  sacraments  upon  my 
holy  day";  (D&C  59:9.) 

To  me  that  makes  it  clear  and  under- 
standable as  to  where  I  ought  to  be  and 
what  I  ought  to  do  among  other  things 
that  are  approved  of  the  Lord  on  that 
holy  day. 

Another  matter:  How  completely  do 
you  love  your  neighbor?  The  Savior 
has  said  that  not  only  should  we  love 
our  neighbors  as  ourselves,  but  that  we 
should  also  even  love  our  enemies.  One 
man  said,  "It's  a  difficult  enough  thing 
to  love  a  neighbor  whom  he  likes  to  be 
classed  as  his  neighbor,  but  to  reach  out 
and  love  his  enemy  is  almost  beyond 
reasonable  expectation."  Nevertheless,  it 
is  a  method  which  the  Lord  has  of 
preparing,  of  sanctifying,  and  of  per- 
fecting those  whom  he  has  called  his 
Saints.  Further  than  that,  he  requires 
that  we  bless  those  that  curse  us,  and 
that  we  do  good  unto  them  that  hate 
us,  and  that  we  pray  for  them  who 
despitefully  use  us  and  persecute  us. 
How  can  we  love  our  neighbor?  I 
think  one  of  the  best  ways  would  be  to 
help  him  to  learn  the  truth,  to  accept 
the  restored  gospel  and  to  find  in  it  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation  for  them 
and  their  families,  and  by  defending  him 
against  danger  or  slander  or  mistreatment 
by  others.  I  think  we  could  show  a  love 
of  our  neighbors  on  the  highways  and 
in  traffic  congestions  by  being  courteous 
and  by  giving  them  the  right  of  way 
once  in  a  while  even  though  we  may 
have  rightful  claim  to  it.  There  are 
innumerable  ways  in  which  love  may 
be  extended  to  one's  neighbor. 

It  was  James  Russell  Lowell  who  said, 
"They  who  love  the  Lord  and  their 
neighbors  are  but  one  step  from  heaven." 

I'd  like  to  include  with  these  neigh- 
bors, whom  we  must  love  and  for 
whom  we  must  be  concerned,  those  who 
have  passed  on,  especially  our  own  pro- 
genitors to  whom  we  have  the  in- 
escapable obligation  to  bring  salvation 
and  exaltation  through  vicarious  service. 
What  are  we  doing  about  them  on  an 
individual  family  basis? 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


70 

Saturday,  April  6 

How  about  tithing?  Are  we  as  indi- 
viduals placing  ourselves  in  a  position 
to  receive  the  glorious  promises  given 
of  the  Lord  for  those  who  consistently 
observe  this  law?  He  offered  a  chal- 
lenge to  be  proved  if  he  would  not 
open  the  windows  of  heaven  and  pour 
out  upon  us  a  blessing  that  there  shall 
not  be  room  enough  to  receive,  and 
then  he  said: 

"And  I  will  rebuke  the  devourer  for 
your  sakes,  and  he  shall  not  destroy 
the  fruits  of  your  ground;  neither  shall 
your  vine  cast  her  fruit  before  the  time 
in  the  field,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts." 
(Mai.  3:11.) 

What  a  promise  that  is  to  those  of 
us  who  are  willing  to  keep  the  law! 
Can  any  of  us  justify  withholding  or 
skimping  on  that  which  really  belongs 
to  the  Lord? 

The  voice  of  President  Heber  C.  Kim- 
ball (I  was  pleased  to  hear  this  beauti- 
ful exposition  by  Spencer  W.  Kimball  on 
the  Book  of  Mormon  making  it  so  vivid 
before  us)  rang  out  in  this  very  build- 
ing concerning  the  matter  of  tithing 
when  he  said: 

"You  have  nothing  except  what  you 
have  received  from  the  Almighty.  Where 
do  you  get  your  water,  your  meat, 
your  bread  and  the  luxuries  of  life? 
Did  he  not  create  them?  Were  not  the 
elements  thereof  placed  upon  the  earth 
before  you  came  here?  If  you  do  not 
pay  one  dime  in  tithing,  it  will  not  im- 
poverish the  Lord,  but  I  tell  you  where 
the  effect  will  lie.  It  will  affect  your- 
selves, your  own  salvation." 

And  I  should  like  to  add  and  that  of 
your  children  most  likely  for  "like 
father,  like  son"  is  an  old  but  true 
adage. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord  are  not  dictums, 
they  are  principles  given  by  a  Merciful 
Father  to  keep  us  and  all  mankind  who 
will  follow  him  from  sin,  sorrow,  and 
regret.  We  talk  a  good  deal  these  days 
about  security.  One  of  the  best  formu- 
las of  security  that  I  have  ever  known 
is  given  in  the  words  of  Helaman  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon: 

"And  now,  my  sons,  remember,  re- 


Second  Day 

member  that  it  is  upon  the  rock  of  our 
Redeemer,  who  is  Christ,  the  Son  of 
God,  that  ye  must  build  your  founda- 
tion; that  when  the  devil  shall  send 
forth  his  mighty  winds,  yea,  his  shafts 
in  the  whirlwind,  yea,  when  all  his  hail 
and  his  mighty  storm  shall  beat  upon 
you,  it  shall  have  no  power  over  you  to 
drag  you  down  to  the  gulf  of  misery 
and  endless  wo,  because  of  the  rock 
upon  which  ye  are  built,  which  is  a  sure 
foundation,  a  foundation  whereon  if 
men  build  they  cannot  fall."  (Hel.  5:12.) 

I  like  that,  and  I  have  taken  it  to 
heart.  I  advocate  it  to  the  young  and 
to  the  old  and  to  all  of  us,  in  fact,  to 
all  mankind,  for  it  is  true  as  true 
can  be. 

May  we,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  stand 
firm  upon  this  sure  foundation  and 
thereby  contribute  to  the  progress  of  the 
Church  as  it  moves  on  to  the  comple- 
tion of  its  divine  destiny,  and  at  the 
same  time  secure  our  individual  and  col- 
lective salvation  and  perhaps  exaltation, 
I  pray,  testifying  again  that  the  Savior 
lives  and  that  this  is  his  work,  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  our 
Master.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  EIRay  L.  Christiansen  has  just 
spoken  to  us. 

The  congregation  and  chorus  will  now 
join  in  singing  "We  Thank  Thee,  O 
God,  For  A  Prophet,"  conducted  by 
Brother  Kurt  Weinzinger. 

After  the  singing  Bishop  Victor  L. 
Brown  will  speak  to  us. 


The  Congregation  joined  with  the 
Chorus  in  singing  the  hymn,  "We 
Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For  A  Prophet." 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Victor  L.  Brown  of  the  Presid- 
ing Bishopric  will  now  speak  to  us.  He 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  S.  Dilworth 
Young. 


71 


BISHOP  VICTOR  L.  BROWN 

Seaond  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


I  was  invited  to  speak  to  a  group  of 
high  school  students  recently.  They  are 
members  of  a  service  club,  the  motto 
of  which  is  "Fulfil  Freedom's  Chal- 
lenge." I  suppose  there  is  no  subject 
discussed  more  frequently  today  than 
that  of  freedom.  There  are  many  ap- 
proaches to  this  topic. 

As  I  stood  before  this  group  of  eager 
young  men  and  looked  into  their  faces, 
I  couldn't  help  feeling  that  if  they  could 
catch  the  full  significance  of  the  meaning 
of  this  motto  and  put  it  into  practice, 
their  success  in  life  would  be  assured. 

"Fulfil  Freedom's  Challenge."  Free- 
dom means  many  things  to  many  peo- 
ple. May  I  illustrate  one  kind  of 
freedom  that  came  to  my  mind  as  I 
visited  with  these  young  men  by  telling 
you  of  a  friend  of  mine  who  sold  his 
freedom  for  a  social  custom.  This  young 
man  had  started  up  the  ladder  of  suc- 
cess, and  it  appeared  that  nothing  could 
stop  him.  I  don't  know  of  anyone  who 
had  brighter  or  more  promising  pros- 
pects for  a  successful  career. 

Then,  one  day,  he  made  the  decision 
that  if  he  were  really  to  succeed,  he 
must  accept  social  drinking  as  a  part  of 
his  life,  and  so  he  did.  I  am  sure  that 
to  begin  with,  he  found  the  taste  un- 
palatable. However,  it  wasn't  long  be- 
fore he  began  to  look  forward  to  the 
cocktail  hour,  and  then  the  cocktail 
hour  couldn't  come  soon  enough.  Fi- 
nally, he  became  a  slave  to  alcohol,  los- 
ing his  wife,  his  friends,  and  his  job.  The 
last  time  I  saw  him,  though  still  a 
young  man,  he  looked  twice  his  age. 
He  was  without  work.  He  was  finding 
it  necessary  to  ask  for  a  handout  from 
his  friends.  He  had  lost  everything 
that  was  worth  living  for. 

The  day  I  was  called  to  be  a  bishop 
of  a  ward  several  years  ago,  I  received 
a  telephone  call,  asking  if  I  could  come 
to  help  dissuade  a  woman  from  taking 
her  life.  I  wish  every  young  woman 
in  this  Church  could  have  been  by  my 
side  during  that  interview.  This  woman, 
the  daughter  of  a  bishop,  the  former 
wife  of  another  leader  in  the  Church, 


and  the  mother  of  two  teen-age  young- 
sters had  sold  her  soul  for  a  bottle. 
During  her  more  or  less  sober  moments, 
when  she  reflected  upon  what  she  had 
done  with  her  life,  she  could  see  no 
purpose  for  living. 

Now,  my  young  friends,  don't  think 
for  one  moment  that  these  problems 
came  on  this  man  and  this  woman  over- 
night. They  found  themselves  in  these 
situations  after  many  weeks,  months, 
and  even  years  of  merely  being  "one  of 
the  gang,"  of  succumbing  to  the  pres- 
sures of  their  neighbors,  friends,  and 
associates,  of  not  wanting  to  be  differ- 
ent. In  all  of  my  experience,  I  have 
never  seen  anyone  more  in  bondage, 
with  less  freedom  than  these  two 
individuals. 

You  don't  give  up  your  freedom  all 
at  once — this  kind  of  freedom  at  any 
rate.  You  give  it  up  a  little  at  a  time, 
and  all  it  takes  is  a  start.  If  there  is 
never  a  start,  there  is  no  concern  about 
giving  it  up. 

Each  of  you  would  gladly  give  your 
life,  if  necessary,  to  keep  your  country 
free.  What  are  you  willing  to  give  to 
remain  free  from  this  so-called  social 
custom  that  destroys  so  many  boys  and 
girls,  men  and  women? 

"Fulfil  Freedom's  Challenge."  As  I 
stood  before  those  students,  how  I  hoped 
they  would  recognize  that  they  would 
have  to  determine  in  their  own  minds 
and  hearts  what  kind  of  men  they  were 
going  to  be,  how  susceptible  they  would 
be  to  the  accepted  practices  and  habits 
of  the  world. 

Many  millions  of  dollars  are  spent  by 
tobacco  companies  in  an  effort  to  en- 
tice the  young  people  of  this  nation  into 
taking  up  the  habit  of  smoking.  Medical 
science  today  is  substantiating  the 
claims  which  have  been  made  for  many 
years,  that  the  use  of  tobacco  is  in- 
jurious to  one's  health,  but  it  is  not 
from  this  viewpoint  that  I  wish  to  dis- 
cuss it. 

Just  last  week  I  had  occasion  to  be 
driving  with  a  man  who  took  a  cigaret 
out  of  his  pocket,  put  it  in  his  mouth, 


72 

Saturday,  April  6 

lighted  it,  and  then  threw  it  away.  He 
turned  to  me,  and  said,  "Did  you  see 
what  I  just  did?  I  didn't  want  a 
cigaret.  I  have  stopped  smoking,  but 
look  what  I  did." 

Why,  I  have  known  some  men  who 
have  stopped  smoking  every  Monday 
morning  for  weeks. 

One  of  the  most  common  social  prac- 
tices in  this  country — and  I  suppose  in 
many  countries  of  the  world — is  the  use 
of  tobacco. 

If  you  young  men  and  women  will 
ask  an  honest  person  who  is  a  confirmed 
smoker  whether  or  not  he  has  denied 
himself  a  freedom  by  the  use  of  tobacco, 
he  will  tell  you  he  is  enslaved  to  this 
habit. 

We,  as  a  Church,  are  not  infrequently 
accused  of  being  narrow-minded  and 
fanatical  because  we  feel  it  is  important, 
among  other  things,  for  our  members 
to  abstain  from  the  use  of  tobacco  and 
liquor.  Sometimes  in  an  effort  to  avoid 
this  implied  stigma,  we  relent,  and  go 
along  with  our  critics.  Then  if  we 
aren't  careful,  we  find  that  we  have 
developed  habits  which  sometimes  seem 
almost  impossible  to  overcome.  How 
necessary  are  these  things  really  in 
achieving  success? 

The  other  day  a  man  came  to  our 
offices  to  discuss  a  business  proposition. 
At  the  conclusion  of  our  meeting,  we 
learned  that  he  had  recently  been 
elected  executive  vice-president  and 
treasurer  of  his  company.  Now,  this 
company  is  international  in  scope.  It 
does  over  four  hundred  million  dollars 
worth  of  business  each  year. 

In  discussing  his  rise  to  such  an  im- 
portant position  in  the  business  world, 
he  quietly  and  humbly  said,  "You  know, 
I  have  never  found  it  necessary  to 
smoke  a  big  cigar  or  indulge  in  cock- 
tails. I  have  just  followed  what  my 
father  taught  me  when  I  was  a  boy 
and  tried  to  live  the  way  my  mother 
wanted  me  to  live.  And  I  haven't  found 
that  it  has  hurt  me  a  bit." 

On  one  occasion,  the  chairman  of 
the  board  of  directors  of  a  large  corpora- 
tion, the  largest  of  its  kind  in  the 
United  States  with  retail  outlets  from 
coast  to  coast  and  border  to  border, 
called  one  of  his  vice-presidents  on  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

telephone  and  said,  "Will  you  please 
come  to  my  office  right  away,  and  bring 
your  two  boys."  These  two  boys  were 
also  associated  with  this  company. 

As  the  three  men  entered  the  chair- 
man's office,  he  introduced  them  to  a 
man  who  they  learned  was  one  of  the 
great  financiers  from  New  York  City. 
As  the  chairman  of  the  board  introduced 
these  three  men,  he  said  to  this  finan- 
cier, "These  are  the  kind  of  men  we 
want  to  build  our  company  around." 

Now,  why  do  you  suppose  he  would 
make  such  a  statement,  because  these 
three  men  neither  use  tobacco  or 
liquor?  I  doubt  it.  I  am  confident 
that  many  of  the  men  in  this  company 
use  tobacco  and  liquor.  Then,  why? 
Because  they  are  Latter-day  Saints? 
They  are,  but  I  doubt  this  was  the  rea- 
son. I  think  this  business  executive 
wanted  to  build  his  great  company 
around  men  such  as  these  three  because 
they  are  men  of  character.  They  have 
personal  standards,  and  they  have  the 
backbone  to  live  these  standards  no 
matter  where  they  are  or  whom  they 
are  with.  These  men  are  strong  enough 
to  resist  the  pressures  of  social  customs 
rather  than  compromise  their  own  prin- 
ciples, and  this  man  knew  they  could 
be  relied  upon. 

From  these  two  examples,  you  can 
see  that  successful  people  have  fulfilled 
freedom's  challenge  without  compromis- 
ing the  principles  of  the  gospel. 

There  were  many  other  thoughts  that 
went  through  my  mind  as  I  visited  with 
these  young  students  and  contemplated 
their  ambitions  and  desires  to  fulfil 
freedom's  challenge.  In  my  mind's  eye, 
I  could  see  among  them  future  doctors, 
attorneys,  educators,  businessmen,  engi- 
neers, scientists,  and  so  forth. 

The  thought  I  wish  to  conclude  with, 
however,  has  reference  to  yet  another 
group  who  were  not  present  at  this 
meeting.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  I  am 
afraid  the  motto,  "Fulfil  Freedom's 
Challenge,"  would  have  little  interest 
for  them.  They  are  known  as  dropouts. 
They  are  the  ones  who  for  one  reason 
or  another  leave  high  school  without 
obtaining  their  diplomas.  It  is  my 
feeling  that  this  group  of  young  men 
and  young  women  arc  choosing  to  be- 


ELDER  S,  DILWORTH  YOUNG 


73 


come  enslaved  to  a  life  of  mediocrity, 
and  the  tragic  fact  about  this  is  that  not 
only  are  they  entering  into  this  deplor- 
able condition,  but  they  are  probably 
going  to  take  many  of  their  children 
with  them.  If  they  could  only  foresee 
the  opportunities  and  rewards  that  will 
pass  them  by  because  of  their  decision 
to  be  satisfied  with  a  minimal  prepara- 
tion for  life!  It  is  essential  that  each 
person  recognize  that  the  responsibility 
for  these  decisions  rests  with  himself. 
John  Oxenham  has  written: 
"To  every  man  there  openeth 
A  Way,  and  Ways,  and  a  Way, 
And  the  High  Soul  climbs  the  High  way, 
And  the  Low  Soul  gropes  the  Low; 
And  in  between,  on  the  misty  flats, 
The  rest  drift  to  and  fro. 
But  to  every  man  there  openeth 
A  High  way  and  a  Low, 
And  every  man  decideth 
The  Way  his  soul  shall  go." 

It  is  my  earnest  prayer  that  young 
men  and  young  women  everywhere  will 
consider  carefully  before  choosing  their 
highway  of  life. 

What  a  wonderful  thing  it  would  be 
if  all  young  people  of  this  generation 
decided  that  mediocrity  would  not  touch 
their  lives  but  rather  that  excellence  in 
all  things  would  be  their  ambition. 
John  W.  Gardner,  president  of  the 
Carnegie  Corporation,  spoke  of  excel- 
lence in  this  way: 

"The  most  important  moral  of  all  is 
that  excellence  is  where  you  find  it.  I 
would  extend  this  generalization  to 
cover  not  just  higher  education  but  all 
education  from  the  vocational  high 
school  to  the  graduate  school.  .  .  .  We 
must  learn  to  honor  excellence  (in- 
deed to  demand  it)  in  every  socially 
accepted  human  activity,  however  hum- 


ble the  activity,  and  to  scorn  shoddiness, 
however  exalted  the  activity.  .  .  .  An 
excellent  plumber  is  infinitely  more 
admirable  than  an  incompetent  philos- 
opher. The  society  which  scorns  excel- 
lence in  plumbing  because  plumbing  is 
a  humble  activity,  and  tolerates  shoddi- 
ness in  philosophy  because  it  is  an 
exalted  activity  will  have  neither  good 
plumbing  nor  good  philosophy.  Neither 
its  pipes  nor  its  theories  will  hold  water." 

Freedom  of  choice  is  a  basic  principle 
of  the  gospel.  This  was  true  even  before 
the  earth  was  created.  Each  one  of  us 
has  the  divinely  granted  right  to  choose 
for  himself.  In  choosing,  we  have  the 
responsibility  to  use  our  intellect,  which 
also  has  been  given  to  us  by  our  Heav- 
enly Father.  He  has  shown  us  the 
way;  now  it  is  our  responsibility  to 
choose  which  way  we  will  go. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  God 
lives,  that  Jesus  Christ,  our  Elder 
Brother,  gave  his  life  that  we  might 
live,  and  that  he  gave  us  the  teachings 
which,  if  properly  lived,  will  permit  us 
to  return  to  his  presence.  I  also  bear 
witness  that  President  David  O.  McKay 
is  a  prophet  of  God,  just  as  surely  as 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God, 
the  instrument  in  the  hands  of  the 
Lord  in  restoring  the  gospel  in  this 
latter  day,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Victor  L.  Brown  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  has  just  spoken  to  us. 

Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  be  our  next 
speaker.  He  will  be  followed  by  our 
concluding  speaker,  Elder  Marion  G. 
Romney. 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


About  a  year  ago  I  was  reading  in  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  came  upon 
a  verse  of  one  of  the  sections.  I  sup- 
pose everybody  has  an  experience  of  the 
type  I  had  as  I  read.  I  think  the  Prophet 
had  such  an  experience  the  day  he 
read,  "If  any  man  lack  wisdom  let  him 


ask  of  God"  (See  James  1:5),  for  that 
scripture  leaped  at  him;  and  so  this  one 
leaped  at  me.  For  a  year  or  so  I  have 
been  reading  it  off  and  on,  contem- 
plating it.  Now  I  should  like  to  read 
it  to  you,  but  first  I  should  like  to  give 
it  its  framework. 


74 

Saturday,  April  6 

Back  in  1829  the  Lord,  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  said  there  would 
be  appointed  twelve  disciples,  which 
of  course  we  know  as  apostles,  and  he 
appointed  two  of  the  three  witnesses  to 
choose  them.  And  then  he  did  a  thing 
which  to  me  is  remarkable.  He  began 
to  instruct  the  Twelve  before  they  were 
chosen,  and  after  having  instructed 
them  he  then  gave  them  this  verse.  In 
1835  the  Twelve  were  chosen,  as  you 
know,  and  on  one  occasion  they  were 
called  together  and  given  their  instruc- 
tions. Oliver  Cowdery  was  the  spokes- 
man; and  after  having  given  them  some 
very  powerful  and  heartwarming  in- 
struction, so  moved  was  he,  himself,  that 
he  had  to  stop  two  or  three  times  to 
weep.  He  finally  read  the  revelation  to 
which  I  refer  and  this  verse. 

Brigham  Young  was  so  impressed  by 
it  that  he  copied  it  in  his  laborious 
handwriting  into  his  diary.  I  am  im- 
pressed by  it  likewise.  These  are  the 
words: 

"These  words  are  not  of  men  nor  of 
man,  but  of  me;  wherefore,  you  shall 
testify  they  are  of  me  and  not  of  man; 

"For  it  is  my  voice  which  speaketh 
them  unto  you;  (now  this  is  six  years 
later  that  they  are  hearing  it)  for  they 
are  given  by  my  Spirit  unto  you,  and 
by  my  power  you  can  read  them  one 
to  another;  and  save  it  were  by  my 
power  you  could  not  have  them"; 
And  this  is  the  verse^-"Wherefore, 
you  can  testify  that  you  have  heard 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

my  voice,  and  know  my  words." 
(D&C  18:34-36.) 

The  thing  that  impresses  me  about 
this  is,  and  I  have  never  thought  of  it 
before,  when  I  read  a  verse  in  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  I  am  hearing  the 
voice  of  the  Lord  as  well  as  reading 
his  words,  if  I  hear  by  the  Spirit. 

Now  I  have  heard  it  said  many  times 
by  men  that  they  have  often  asked  the 
Lord  for  a  special  testimony  and  often- 
times haven't  had  it.  They  seem  to 
want  to  hear  the  voice  of  the  Lord.  I 
confess  I  have  often  wanted  to  hear 
the  voice  of  the  Lord,  without  know- 
ing that  all  these  years  I  have  been 
hearing  it  with  deaf  ears.  This  woke 
me  up. 

I  can  testify  that,  having  read,  I  hear 
the  voice  of  the  Lord.  I  also  testify  to 
you  that  when  you  hear  the  Prophet, 
here  sitting  on  the  stand,  speak  by  the 
voice  of  prophecy  and  by  the  spirit  of 
the  inspiration  which  possesses  him,  you 
also  hear,  through  him,  the  voice  of 
the  Lord.  In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  gave  that  important 
long  speech. 

Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the 
Council  of  Twelve  will  be  our  con- 
cluding speaker. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Mis  queridos  Hermanos  y  Hermanas  de 
los  paises  donde  se  habla  Espanol.  Me 
da  mucho  gusto  a  veros  aqui  con 
nosotros  esta  dia.  Con  todo  corazon,  muy 
bienvenidos. 

To  you  who  wonder,  I  have  just 
greeted  and  welcomed  our  people  from 
Latin  America.  My  Spanish  may  not 
have  been  such  as  they  could  under- 
stand, but  you  are  in  no  position  to 
challenge  my  interpretation  of  it. 

I  love  these,  my  brothers  and  sisters. 
To  me  they  are  white  and  delightsome. 
And  of  course  I  love  you,  too. 


Pursuant  to  assignment  from  the  First 
Presidency  of  the  Church,  I  have  for 
the  past  two  years  been  supervising  the 
Latin  American  missions.  It  may  not, 
therefore,  be  wholly  inappropriate  for 
me  to  say  something  about  the  Laman- 
ites,  many  of  whom  live  in  these  mis- 
sions. With  this  intent,  I  take  for  my 
text  the  following  statement  made  by  the 
Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in 
March  1831. 

".  .  .  before  the  great  day  of  the  Lord 
shall  come,  Jacob  shall  flourish  in  the 
wilderness,   and  the  Lamanites  shall 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


75 


blossom  as  the  rose."  (D&C  49:24.) 

The  word,  "Lamanites,"  denotes,  of 
course,  the  descendants  of  rebellious 
Laman  and  Lemuel.  It  also  denotes 
all  other  descendants  of  Lehi  who  de- 
fected to  them.  As  used  in  our  text, 
I  think  it  includes  all  descendants  of 
Book  of  Mormon  peoples  frequently  re- 
ferred to  as  the  remnant  of  the  people 
of  Lehi.  The  Lord  identifies  them  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  as  ".  .  .  the 
Nephites,  .  .  .  Jacobites,  .  .  .  Josephites, 
.  .  .  Zoramites,  .  .  . 

".  .  .  Lamanites,  .  .  .  Lemuelites,  and 
.  .  .  Ishmaelites,  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  3:17-18.) 
"The  great  day  of  the  Lord"  will,  of 
course,  be  the  day  when  the  Savior 
comes  in  his  power  and  glory  to  in- 
augurate a  reign  of  righteousness  and 
peace. 

The  background  of  our  text  is  most 
interesting  and  significant.  At  that 
time  there  was  much  interest  and  con- 
siderable misunderstanding  concerning 
the  "great  day  of  the  Lord."  The 
Shakers,  for  example,  had  the  mistaken 
notion  that  the  Savior  might  come  as 
a  woman.  To  dispel  this  error,  the 
Lord  said: 

".  .  .  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  the 
Son  of  Man  cometh  not  in  the  form,  of 
a  woman,  neither  of  a  man  traveling 
on  the  earth. 

"Wherefore,  be  not  deceived,  but  con- 
tinue in  steadfastness,  looking  forth  for 
the  heavens  to  be  shaken,  and  the  earth 
to  tremble  and  to  reel  to  and  fro  as  a 
drunken  man,  and  for  the  valleys  to  be 
exalted,  and  for  the  mountains  to  be 
made  low,  and  for  the  rough  places  to 
become  smooth — and  all  this  when  the 
angel  shall  sound  his  trumpet. 

"But  before  the  great  day  of  the  Lord 
shall  come,  Jacob  shall  flourish  in  the 
wilderness,  and  the  Lamanites  shall 
blossom  as  the  rose."  (Ibid-,  49:22-24.) 

The  relationship  here  revealed  be- 
tween the  redemption  of  the  Lamanites 
and  the  coming  of  "the  great  day  of  the 
Lord"  is  frequently  implied  in  the  scrip- 
tures. Enoch,  for  example,  the  great 
antediluvian  prophet,  witnessing  in  vi- 
sion the  corruption  of  mankind,  after 
the  ascension  of  the  Son  of  Man,  .  .  . 
cried  unto  his  God:  "Wilt  thou  not 
come  again  upon  the  earth?  .  .  . 

"And  the  Lord  said  unto  Enoch:  As  I 


live,  even  so  will  I  come  in  the  last 
days. .  .  . 

'And  the  day  shall  come  that  the  earth 
shall  rest,  but  before  that  day  the 
heavens  shall  be  darkened,  and  a  veil 
of  darkness  shall  cover  the  earth;  and 
the  heavens  shall  shake,  and  also  the 
earth;  and  great  tribulations  shall  be 
among  the  children  of  men,  but  my 
people  will  I  preserve; 

"And  righteousness  will  I  send  down 
out  of  heaven;  and  truth  will  I  send 
forth  out  of  the  earth,  to  bear  testimony 
of  mine  Only  Begotten;  .  .  ."  (Moses 
7:59-62.)  "The  Latter-day  Saints  regard 
the  coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, ...  as  a  fulfilment  of  this  proph- 
ecy, .  .  ."  (See  James  E.  Talmage, 
Articles  of  Faith,  p.  275.) 

One  of  the  two  purposes  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon  as  expressed  on  its  title 
page  is  "to  show  unto  the  remnant  of 
the  house  of  Israel  what  great  things 
the  Lord  hath  done  for  their  fathers; 
and  that  they  may  know  the  covenants 
of  the  Lord,  that  they  are  not  cast  off 
forever."  "The  remnant  of  the  House 
of  Israel"  here  referred  to  includes,  of 
course,  the  Lamanites.  It  is  concerning 
the  covenants  the  Lord  made  with  their 
fathers  which  run  in  favor  of  the 
Lamanites  and  culminate  in  their  blos- 
soming as  the  rose  that  I  wish  to  speak. 

One  of  these  covenants  was  that  a 
record  of  their  fathers  would  be  pre- 
served and  brought  forth  unto  the  rem- 
nant. Concerning  this  covenant,  Enos 
said:  ".  .  .  after  I  had  prayed  and 
labored  with  all  diligence,  the  Lord 
said  unto  me:  I  will  grant  unto  thee 
according  to  thy  desires,  .  .  . 

"And  .  .  .  this  was  the  desire  which 
I  desired  .  .  .  that  if  it  should  so  be, 
that  my  people,  the  Nephites,  should 
fall  into  transgression,  and  by  any 
means  be  destroyed,  and  the  Lamanites 
should  not  be  destroyed,  that  the  Lord 
God  would  preserve  a  record  of  my 
people,  .  .  .  that  it  might  be  brought 
forth  at  some  future  day  unto  the 
Lamanites,  that,  perhaps,  they  might 
be  brought  unto  salvation — 

".  .  .  and  he  covenanted  with  me  that 
he  would  bring  them  forth  unto  the 
Lamanites  in  his  own  due  time."  (Enos 
12-13,  16.  Italics  added.) 

The  Lord  had  made  this  same  cove- 


76 

Saturday,  April  6 

nant  with  Nephi  some  fifty  years  earlier 
(See  1  Nephi  13:35),  and  he  renewed 
it  with  Mormon  nearly  a  thousand  years 
later.  (See  Mormon  5:8-9,  12-13.) 

Moroni,  preparing  to  deposit  the  rec- 
ord in  Cumorah,  predicted  that  ".  .  .  it 
shall  be  brought  out  of  darkness  unto 
light,  according  to  the  word  of  God; 
yea,  it  shall  be  brought  out  of  the  earth, 
and  it  shall  shine  forth  out  of  darkness, 
and  come  unto  the  knowledge  of  the 
people;  and  it  shall  be  done  by  the 
power  of  God."  (Mormon  8:16.)  In 
Mormon,  chapter  eight,  from  which  this 
prophecy  of  Moroni  is  taken,  and  in 
chapter  nine  is  to  be  found  a  clear 
and  accurate  description  of  the  world 
in  which  we  now  live — a  word  picture 
written  by  a  prophet,  who  by  the  power 
of  God  saw  in  open  vision  and  made 
record  of  us,  our  times  and  doings,  and 
of  the  chastening  which  awaits  us,  the 
inhabitants  of  this  land,  if  we  do  not 
repent  and  heed  the  teachings  of  the 
restored  gospel. 

Concluding  the  account  of  the  cove- 
nant concerning  the  record  to  be  pre- 
served and  brought  forth,  the  Lord  said 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  1828: 
"Behold,  there  are  many  things  en- 
graven upon  the  plates  of  Nephi  (speak- 
ing of  the  small  plates  being  substituted 
for  the  116  pages  of  manuscript  lost 
by  Martin  Harris)  which  do  throw 
greater  views  upon  my  gospel;  .  .  . 

"And,  behold,  all  the  remainder  of 
this  work  does  contain  all  those  parts  of 
my  gospel  which  my  holy  prophets,  yea, 
and  also  my  disciples,  desired  in  their 
prayers  should  come  forth  unto  this 
people. 

"And  I  said  unto  them,  that  it  should 
be  granted  unto  them  according  to  their 
faith  in  their  prayers";  (D&C  10:45-47.) 

Other  covenants  which  the  Lord 
made  with  their  fathers  were  to  the 
effect  that  the  remnant  would  accept 
the  gospel,  regain  their  inheritance  and 
former  blessings  and  take  part  in  the 
latter-day  redemption  of  Zion. 

Nephi,  explaining  to  his  brethren  the 
words  their  father  Lehi  had  ".  .  .  spoken 
concerning  the  natural  branches  of  the 
olive-tree,  .  .  ."  said,  ".  .  .  in  the  latter 
days,  when  our  seed  shall  have  dwindled 
in  unbelief,  ...  for  the  space  of  .  .  . 
many  generations  .  .  .  then  shall  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

fulness  of  the  gospel  .  .  .  come  unto 
[them]  .  .  .  from  the  Gentiles,  .  .  . 

"And  at  that  dav  shall  the  remnant 
of  our  seed.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  be  remembered  again  among 
the  house  of  Israel;  they  shall  be 
grafted  .  .  .  into  the  true  olive-tree." 
(1  Nephi  15:7,  13-14,  16.) 

"And  then  shall  the  remnant  of  our 
seed  know  concerning  us,  how  that  we 
came  out  from  Jerusalem,  and  that  they 
are  descendants  of  the  Jews. 

"And  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  shall 
be  declared  among  them;  wherefore, 
they  shall  be  restored  unto  the  knowl- 
edge of  their  fathers,  and  also  to  the 
knowledge  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  was 
had  among  their  fathers. 

"And  then  shall  they  rejoice;  for  they 
shall  know  that  it  is  a  blessing  unto 
them  from  the  hand  of  God;  and  their 
scales  of  darkness  shall  begin  to  fall 
from  their  eyes;  and  many  generations 
shall  not  pass  away  among  them,  save 
they  shall  be  a  white  and  delightsome 
people."  (2  Nephi  30:4-6.) 

The  chief  witness  to  the  blessings 
awaiting  the  Lamanites  was  the  resur- 
rected Jesus.  As  he  ministered  to  the 
survivors  of  the  cataclysm  which  at- 
tended his  crucifixion,  he  said  unto 
them,  ".  .  .  my  joy  is  great,  even  unto 
fulness,  because  of  you,  and  also  this 
generation;  yea,  and  even  the  Father 
rejoiceth,  and  also  all  the  holy  angels, 
...  for  none  of  them  (this  generation — 
that  is,  those  who  were  then  alive) 
are  lost.  .  .  . 

"But .  .  ."  he  continued,  "it  sorroweth 
me  because  of  the  fourth  generation 
from  this  generation,  for  they  are  led 
away  captive  by  him  even  as  was  the 
son  of  perdition;  for  they  will  sell  me 
for  silver  and  for  gold,  .  .  .  And  in  that 
day  will  I  visit  them,  even  in  turning 
their  works  upon  their  own  heads." 
(3  Nephi  27:30,  32.)  Mormon,  of 
course,  records  the  literal  fulfilment  of 
this  sad  prediction. 

But  Jesus  did  not  conclude  his 
prophecy  about  the  Lamanites  here. 
Notwithstanding  their  foreseen  apostasy 
and  degradation,  he  repeatedly  affirmed 
the  fact  that  the  Father  had  given  them 
this  land  as  a  permanent  inheritance. 
(See  ibid.,  15:13;  16:16;  20:14;  21:22.) 
He  assured  them  that  a  remnant  would 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


77 


survive  to  enjoy  their  inheritance  al- 
though, by  reason  of  their  iniquity,  they 
would  forfeit  it  to  the  gentiles  for 
a  season. 

He  told  of  the  coming  of  the  gentiles. 
"For,"  said  he,  "it  is  wisdom  in  the 
Father  that  they  should  be  established 
in  this  land,  and  be  set  up  as  a  free 
people  by  the  power  of  the  Father, 
.  .  ."  (Ibid.,  21:4.) 

".  .  .  because  of  their  belief  in  me,  .  .  . 

".  .  .  and  because  of  the  unbelief  of 
you,  O  house  of  Israel,  in  the  latter 
day  ...  the  fulness  of  these  things 
shall  be  made  known  unto  them." 
(Ibid.,  16:6-7.) 

".  .  .  that  these  things  might  come 
forth  from  them  unto  a  remnant  of  your 
seed,  that  the  covenant  of  the  Father 
may  be  fulfilled.  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  21:4.) 

Speaking  of  the  role  the  remnant 
would  play  in  this  last  gospel  dispensa- 
tion, Jesus  assured  them  that  they  would 
be  associated  with  other  faithful  mem- 
bers of  the  house  of  Israel  in  establish- 
ing in  this,  the  land  of  their  inheritance, 
a  New  Jerusalem.  "And  behold,"  said 
he,  "this  people" — remember,  he  was 
speaking  in  America — "will  I  establish 
in  this  land,  unto  the  fulfilling  of  the 
covenant  which  I  made  with  your 
father  Jacob;  and  it  shall  be  a  New 
Jerusalem.  And  the  powers  of  heaven 
shall  be  in  the  midst  of  this  people;  yea, 
even  I  will  be  in  the  midst  of  you." 
(Ibid.,  20:22.) 

Concerning  the  timetable  for  the 
fulfilment  of  these  tremendous  prophe- 
cies, Jesus  said:  "...  I  give  unto  you  a 
sign,  that  ye  may  know  the  time  when 
these  things  shall  be  about  to  take 
place —  .  .  . 

".  .  .  when  these  things  which  I  de- 
clare unto  you,  .  .  .  shall  be  made 
known  unto  the  Gentiles  .  .  . 

".  .  .  and  shall  come  forth  of  the 
Father,  from  them  unto  .  .  . 

".  .  .  your  seed  .  .  . 

"And  .  .  .  thy  seed  shall  begin  to  know 
these  things — it  shall  be  a  sign  unto 
them,  that  they  may  know  that  the 
work  of  the  Father  hath  already  com- 
menced unto  the  fulfilling  of  the  cove- 
nant which  he  hath  made  unto  the 
people  who  are  of  the  house  of  Israel." 
(Ibid.,  21:1-3,  5,  7.) 


Now,  with  this  foreknowledge  as  an 
interpretative  guide  to  the  signs  of  the 
times,  all  who  have  seeing  eyes  and 
understanding  hearts  may  rest  assured 
that  the  fulfilment  of  the  promises  to 
the  Lamanites  is  at  hand.  Most  of  the 
foregoing  prophecies  have  already  been 
fulfilled,  and  others  are  now  in  course 
of  fulfilment.  The  apostasy  and  fourth 
generation  destruction,  the  degeneration 
of  the  remnant,  the  coming  of  the  gen- 
tiles, their  establishment  by  the  power 
of  God  as  a  free  people  in  this  land, 
their  harassment  of  the  remnant,  the 
preservation  of  the  promised  record,  and 
its  coming  forth  by  way  of  the  gentiles 
are  now  all  documented  history. 

For  more  than  a  hundred  years  the 
record  of  their  fathers,  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  has  been  going  to  the  Laman- 
ites by  way  of  the  gentiles.  And  it  is 
now  being  carried  to  them  with  in- 
creased tempo. 

Today  the  Church  has  in  operation 
in  lands  inhabited,  at  least  in  part,  by 
the  remnant,  twenty-one  missions. 
Others  are  being  organized.  Working  in 
these  missions  during  1962  were,  on  an 
average,  2,424  missionaries  a  month. 
These  missionaries  brought  into  the 
Church  22,909  people  in  1962,  an  aver- 
age of  9.45  a  missionary.  This  is  well 
above  the  average  of  other  foreign  mis- 
sions of  the  Church.  So  you  see,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  the  Lord  is  pour- 
ing out  his  spirit  upon  the  Lamanites. 
They  are  accepting  the  record  of  their 
fathers  and  are  coming  to  a  knowledge 
of  the  "things"  referred  to  by  Jesus.  It 
is  true  that  they  are  poor;  they  are 
downtrodden;  they  are  in  large  part  un- 
educated. In  these  and  many  other 
respects  they  still  suffer  under  the  curse 
brought  upon  them  by  their  apostasy 
from  the  gospel  once  so  richly  en- 
joyed and  strictly  obeyed  by  their 
fathers.  But  they  are  now  accepting 
the  gospel.  And  they  will  continue 
to  accept  it  in  ever-increasing  num- 
bers. As  they  receive  and  live  it, 
they  are  certain  to  regain  their  favored 
status  in  the  house  of  Israel  and  par- 
ticipate in  the  redemption  of  Zion 
and  the  building  of  the  New  Jeru- 
salem here  in  America.  Jacob,  even 
now,  flourishes  in  the  wilderness,  and 


78 

Saturday,  April  6 

shortly  the  "Lamanites  shall  blossom  as 
the  rose,"  heralding  "the  great  day  of 
the  Lord,"  which  God  grant  may  not 
be  long  delayed,  I  humbly  pray. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  concluded 
speaking  to  us. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Cho- 
rale will  now  sing  "Lamb  Of  God,"  con- 
ducted by  Elder  Kurt  Weinzinger. 

The  benediction  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Arthur  M.  Jensen,  formerly  Presi- 
dent of  the  Uruguayan  Mission,  after 
which  this  conference  will  be  adjourned 
until  seven  o'clock  this  evening  when 
the  General  Meeting  of  the  Priesthood 
will  be  held  in  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle. 

We  appreciate  the  presence  of  this 
group  of  young  singers  and  those  this 
morning.  It  is  not  because  I  am  getting 
old,  but  their  voices  seem  to  bear  testi- 
mony to  the  truth  of  the  poet  who  said, 
"How  beautiful  is  youth!  How  bright 
it  gleams.  With  its  illusions,  aspira- 
tions, dreams!  Book  of  Beginnings, 
Story  without  End,  Each  maid  a  heroine, 
and  each  man  a  friend!"  (Longfellow) 
Thank  you,  young  people,  for  the  in- 
spiration you  have  brought  with  you  in 
this  inspirational  gathering  today. 

In  addition  to  the  overflow  meeting 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  the  proceedings 
of  the  Priesthood  Meeting  tonight  will 
be  relayed  by  closed  circuit  broadcast 
originating  in  the  Tabernacle  to  mem- 
bers of  the  Aaronic  and  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  assembled  in  359  separate 
locations  in  all  parts  of  the  United 
States,  including  Alaska,  and  in  Canada. 
It  is  estimated  that  approximately  12,000 
holders  of  the  Priesthood  will  be  on 
Temple  Square,  and  more  than  50,000 
will  gather  in  the  other  locations  from 
coast  to  coast. 

The  Sunday  morning  session  will  be 
broadcast  "live"  by  56  radio  and  tele- 
vision stations  in  the  West,  and  short- 
waved  in  English  over  station  WRUL, 
beamed  by  five  transmitters  at  Boston, 
to  all  parts  of  Europe,  to  South  Amer- 
ica, Central  America,  Africa,  and  parts 
of  Asia.  A  translation  of  this  session 
into  Spanish  will  take  place  at  New 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

York,  and  on  Sunday  afternoon  at  five 
o'clock  Eastern  Standard  Time,  will  be 
broadcast  by  short-wave  to  South  Amer- 
ica, Central  America,  Mexico,  and  the 
Caribbean.  For  the  first  time  the  Gen- 
eral Conference  will  be  televised  by 
Canadian  stations  "live"  from  the  Salt 
Lake  Tabernacle.  The  cooperating 
Canadian  stations  will  be  serviced  by 
the  CTV  Network,  which  will  take  the 
Sunday  morning  session  "live"  and 
transmit  it  across  Canada. 

Both  sessions  Sunday  will  be  rebroad- 
cast  over  KSL  radio  Monday  morning 
starting  at  one  o'clock,  and  will  be  heard 
in  many  parts  of  the  United  States  and 
the  world,  including  Canada,  Mexico, 
Alaska,  and  the  Islands  of  the  Pacific. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  broadcast  will 
be  from  9:35  to  10:00  Sunday  morning. 
Those  desiring  to  attend  this  broadcast 
must  be  in  their  seats  no  later  than 
9:10  a.m.  We  have  been  requested  to 
ask  that  those  attending  this  broadcast 
remain  quiet  during  the  national 
broadcast. 

Elder  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  the 
speaker  on  the  Church  of  the  Air  broad- 
cast on  CBS  Radio  Sunday  morning 
from  7:35  to  8:00  o'clock. 

There  will  be  large  crowds  attending 
the  services  on  Sunday,  and  we  ask  you 
please  to  be  courteous  and  patient  at 
all  times.  It  is  not  necessary  to  say 
this,  but  it  is  a  reminder  to  always  be  at 
our  best,  especially  when  driving  your 
automobiles  and  when  standing  at  the 
entrances  to  the  Tabernacle. 

The  singing  for  this  session  has  been 
furnished,  as  I  have  told  you,  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Chorale, 
with  Kurt  Weinzinger  conducting  and 
Roy  M.  Darley  at  the  organ.  They  will 
now  sing  "Lamb  of  God,"  and  the  bene- 
diction will  be  offered  by  Elder  Arthur 
M.  Jensen,  formerly  President  of  the 
Uruguayan  Mission. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Chor- 
ale sang  as  a  closing  number,  "Lamb 
of  God,"  following  which  the  benedic- 
tion was  pronounced  by  Elder  Arthur 
M.  Jensen,  formerly  President  of  the 
Uruguayan  Mission. 

Conference  adjourned  until  7:00  p.m. 


79 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


The  General  Priesthood  Meeting  of 
the  Church  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle 
at  7:00  p.m.,  Saturday,  April  6th,  with 
President  David  O.  McKay  presiding 
and  conducting  the  services. 

The  choral  music  for  this  session  was 
furnished  by  the  Boise  Stake  "Mormon- 
aires,"  with  C.  Winston  Hansen  con- 
ducting. Alexander  Schreiner  was  at 
the  Organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  General  Priesthood  Session 
of  the  One  Hundred  Thirty-Third  An- 
nual Conference  of  the  Church.  The 
singing  during  this  session  will  be  fur- 
nished by  the  Boise  Stake  "Mormon- 
aires."  That  is  a  new  name.  It  is  a 
good  one.  C.  Winston  Hansen  is  the 
Conductor,  and  Dr.  Alexander  Schreiner 
is  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Boise  Stake  "Mormonaires"  singing 
"Hymn  Medley,"  with  Brother  Hansen 


conducting.  After  the  singing  Brother 
Karl  C.  Durham,  President  of  the  Santa 
Ana  Stake,  will  offer  the  invocation. 


The  Boise  Stake  "Mormonaires"  sang 
"Hymn  Medley." 

Elder  Karl  C.  Durham,  President  of 
the  Santa  Ana  Stake,  offered  the  invoca- 
tion. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Boise  Stake  "Mormonaires"  will 
now  favor  us  with  "The  Creation,"  di- 
rected by  C.  Winston  Hansen. 


Singing  by  the  Choral  group,  "The 
Creation." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  asked  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  to  be  our 
first  speaker  this  evening.  We  will  now 
turn  it  over  to  Elder  Lee. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


The  subject  I  am  to  discuss  tonight  is 
not  of  my  own  choosing  but  by  assign- 
ment from  the  Presidency  of  the  Church. 
Therefore  I  feel  a  tremendous  respon- 
sibility, particularly  that  I  stay  within 
the  bounds  of  what  I  have  understood 
their  wishes  to  be  with  regard  to  this 
presentation.  To  that  end  I  seek  most 
humbly  for  an  interest  in  your  faith  and 
prayers  that  I  might  be  so  guided  as  to 
attempt  tonight  to  portray  something 
that  will  help  you  to  understand  the 
developments  of  what  the  President  has 
called  "The  Correlation  Program"  as  it 
has  now  been  developed. 

Prefacing  that  presentation  in  some 
detail,  part  of  it  by  review  and  some  by 
way  of  extension,  I  would  like  to  make 
a  few  introductory  remarks.  I  attended  a 
fast  and  testimony  meeting  a  few 
months  ago  where  Dr.  Harvey  Fletcher 
bore  a  remarkable  testimony.  He  told 
about  the  experience  of  his  father  being 


called  on  a  mission  when  Dr.  Fletcher 
was  just  a  lad.  There  were  five  or  six 
children,  as  I  remember  it,  in  the  family, 
and  the  father  was  called  to  go  out  witb 
not  much  support  from  home.  He 
hadn't  been  out  long  when  he  was 
called  to  come  home  on  account  of  the 
death  of  a  member  of  the  family. 
While  he  was  home  and  preparing  to 
go  back  to  his  mission,  he  was  stricken 
with  deafness,  some  disease  which  left 
him  with  total  deafness,  which,  of 
course,  made  necessary  the  cancellation 
of  his  mission. 

It  was  a  disturbing  thing  to  the  fam- 
ily, and  while  the  father  did  not  allow 
himself  to  become  bitter,  there  were 
some  who  tried  their  best  to  feel  sorry 
for  him  or  make  him  feel  sorry  for 
himself.  About  this  time  the  Godbeites, 
who  the  older  ones  here  will  remember 
were  a  splinter  group  trying  to  confuse 
the  Church,  were  quite  active,  and  in 


80  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  6 

the  ward  where  they  lived  one  of  these, 
a  member  of  the  bishopric  of  the  ward, 
had  tried  to  influence  the  father  and 
had  succeeded  with  some  confusion. 

The  father,  with  thoughts  of  this 
confusion  on  his  mind,  walking  down 
the  road  one  day,  heard  distinctly  a 
voice  behind  him,  which  said  to  him: 
"Stick  with  the  old  ship.  It  will  lead 
you  safely  home."  He  turned  to  look 
because  he  had  not  been  hearing  audible 
voices,  and  he  saw  no  speaker,  but  the 
message  that  came  to  him  is  the  mes- 
sage with  which  I  should  like  to  com- 
mence^— -that  we  should  remember  that 
ours  is  the  responsibility  to  "stick  with 
the  old  ship"  if  we  want  to  be  brought 
safely  back  home. 

I  should  like  to  bring  to  you  a  state- 
ment from  three  former  leaders  of  the 
Church  as  to  the  fundamentals  of  what 
this  speaker  called  "the  old  ship," 
meaning  the  kingdom  of  God,  which 
must  be  kept  in  mind  always  as 
to  the  essentials  in  the  building  of 
the  kingdom. 

Parley  P.  Pratt,  in  what  was  called  a 
"declaration"  or  a  "proclamation," 
under  the  subject  heading,  "Order  of 
Government,"  had  made  this  very 
clear  statement: 

"The  legislative,  judicial,  and  execu- 
tive power  is  vested  in  him  (meaning 
the  President  of  the  Church);  he  re- 
veals the  law,  he  elects,  chooses,  and 
appoints  the  officers  and  holds  the  right 
to  reprove,  correct,  or  even  to  remove 
them  at  pleasure.  Hence  the  necessity 
of  a  constant  intercourse  by  direct  revela- 
tion between  the  Lord  and  his  Church. 
As  a  precedence  for  the  foregoing  facts, 
we  refer  to  the  examples  of  all  ages  as 
recorded  in  the  Scriptures. 

"This  order  of  government  began  in 
Eden — God  appointed  Adam  to  govern 
the  earth,  and  gave  him  laws. 

"It  was  perpetuated  in  a  regular  suc- 
cession from  Adam  to  Noah;  from  Noah 
to  Melchizedek,  Abraham,  Isaac,  Jacob, 
Joseph,  Moses,  Samuel,  the  Prophets, 
John,  Jesus  and  his  apostles.  All,  and 
each  of  which,  were  chosen  by  the  Lord, 
and  not  by  the  people. 

"It  is  true  the  people  have  a  voice  in 
the  government  of  the  kingdom  of 
God,  .  .  . 

"But  they  do  not  confer  the  authority 


Second  Day 

in  the  first  place,  nor  can  they  take  it 
away;  for  instance,  the  people  did  not 
elect  the  twelve  apostles  of  Jesus  Christ, 
nor  could  they  by  popular  vote  deprive 
them  of  their  apostleship.  As  the  gov- 
ernment of  the  kingdom  anciently  ex- 
isted, so  it  is  now  restored."  (Millennial 
Star,  5:150;  March  1845.) 

The  responsibility  resting  upon  every 
holder  of  the  priesthood  is  set  forth  in 
another  very  clear  and  plain  declaration 
by  President  Wilford  Woodruff,  and 
this  is  what  he  said: 

"Every  leader  in  his  place  is  account- 
able for  his  stewardship.  These  disciples 
of  Christ  received  the  Holy  Priesthood, 
the  gospel  of  Christ,  and  the  keys  of 
the  Kingdom  of  God,  and  Jesus  held 
them  responsible  until  the  day  of  their 
death  for  the  course  they  pursued. 
However,  they  were  despised  by  the 
world,  they  were  held  responsible  for 
bearing  a  faithful  and  true  testimony  to 
the  Jew  and  gentile,  of  Jesus  Christ  being 
the  true  shepherd  and  Savior  of  the 
world.  He  gave  him,  Joseph  Smith,  the 
Priesthood  under  the  hands  of  Peter, 
James  and  John.  The  Lord  Almighty 
held  him  responsible  unto  the  day  that 
he  sealed  his  testimony  with  his  blood 
for  the  course  that  he  pursued  with  these 
things.  And  he  bore  his  testimony,  left 
his  record,  and  sealed  it  with  his  blood 
and  laid  down  his  life  and  that  testimony 
is  in  force  today-  upon  all  the  world, 
and  will  remain  so  until  the  end.  When 
I  say  this  of  Joseph  Smith,  I  say  it  of 
every  other  man  (and  this  now  is  the 
point  I  want  you  to  note  particularly). 
President  Young  has  led  this  Church  for 
many  years,  and  the  Lord  has  held  him 
responsible  and  will  hold  him  so  until 
the  day  of  his  death  for  the  course  pur- 
sued by  him  while  conducting  the  affairs 
of  His  Church  and  Kingdom.  And  also 
for  the  use  he  makes  of  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood and  the  Kingdom  of  God. 

"So  with  all  his  counselors,  the 
Twelve  Apostles,  and  everyone  of  us,  we 
shall  all  be  held  accountable  until  the 
day  of  our  death.  We  shall  have  to 
give  an  account  before  the  God  of 
heaven  when  we  go  into  the  spirit  world 
and  meet  Him  there  for  the  use  of  this 
Priesthood  and  the  keys  of  the  king- 
dom which  have  been  established  on 
the  earth  for  the  last  time,  have  been 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


81 


committed  unto  the  hands  of  this 
people,  and  God  will  hold  us  respon- 
sible for  the  use  we  make  of  these 
blessings,  privileges  and  powers  which 
we  enjoy  in  connection  therewith.  The 
eyes  of  God  and  his  angels,  and  of 
every  man  who  dwells  in  the  Celestial 
World  are  watching  us  and  the  courses 
we  pursue." 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  defines  the 
relationship  of  each  order  of  priesthood 
to  all  others,  in  contrast,  may  I  say,  with 
that  concept  of  having  one  minister  for 
a  congregation  who  practically  directs 
the  entire  activity  of  the  congregation. 
President  Smith  said: 

"The  Lord  never  did  intend  that  one 
man  should  have  all  the  power,  and  for 
that  reason  he  has  placed  in  His 
Church,  the  presidents,  apostles,  high 
priests,  seventies,  elders,  and  the  various 
officers  of  the  lesser  priesthood,  all  of 
which  are  essential  in  their  order  and 
place  according  to  the  authority  be- 
stowed upon  them.  The  Lord  never 
did  anything  that  was  not  essential  or 
that  was  superfluous.  There  is  a  use 
for  every  branch  of  the  priesthood,  and 
he  has  established  it  in  his  Church.  We 
want  every  man  to  learn  his  duty,  and 
we  expect  that  every  man  will  do  his 
duty  as  faithfully  as  he  knows  how  and 
carry  off  his  portion  of  the  responsibility 
of  building  up  Zion  in  the  latter  days." 

The  summary  of  these  statements  is 
set  forth  in  one  or  two  incidents  that  I 
should  like  now  to  mention  and  to  di- 
gress for  a  moment,  and  then  to  sum- 
marize by  reading  from  one  of  our 
Melchizedek  Priesthood  study  courses. 
The  story  is  told  in  the  early  days  of  the 
Church — particularly,  I  think,  at  Kirt- 
land — where  some  of  the  leading  breth- 
ren in  the  presiding  councils  of  the 
Church  met  secretly  and  tried  to  scheme 
as  to  how  they  could  get  rid  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph's  leadership.  They  made 
the  mistake  of  inviting  Brigham  Young 
to  one  of  these  secret  meetings.  He  re- 
buked them,  after  he  had  heard  the 
purpose  of  their  meeting.  This  is  part  of 
what  he  said:  "You  cannot  destroy  the 
appointment  of  a  prophet  of  God,  but 
you  can  cut  the  thread  that  binds  you 
to  the  prophet  of  God,  and  sink  your- 
selves to  hell." 

In  that  same  vein,  I  heard  President 


Clark,  shortly  after  he  came  into  the 
First  Presidency,  make  an  interesting 
public  statement.  He  said  that  when 
President  Grant  called  him  to  be  a 
Counselor  in.  the  First  Presidency,  he 
was  worried.  He  had  always  thought  of 
the  President  of  the  Church  as  the 
"mouthpiece"  of  the  Lord,  and  he  won- 
dered how  much  counseling  he  ought  to 
give  the  "mouthpiece"  of  the  Lord.  But 
he  hadn't  been  long  in  the  Presidency 
until  he  discovered  his  place. 

President  Grant  would  say  to  each 
of  his  Counselors,  when  they  were  dis- 
cussing a  serious  matter,  "What  do  you 
think  about  it?"  and  "What  do  you 
think  about  it?"  And  the  Counselors 
would  respond.  Sometimes  their  opin- 
ions were  in  contradiction  or  in  conflict 
with  what  the  President  had  thought. 
There  was  then  the  business  of  resolv- 
ing the  different  points  of  view,  but 
there  would  always  come  a  time  after  a 
sufficient  discussion  when  the  President 
would  say:  "Now  brethren,  I  feel  that 
this  is  the  thing  we  ought  to  do."  Then 
President  Clark  remarked,  "When  he 
said  that,  I  quit  counseling  because,  to 
me,  that  was  the  prophet  of  the  Lord 
speaking,  and  I  felt  I  should  not  try  to 
dissuade  him." 

In  the  history  of  the  Church  there 
have  been  times  or  instances  where 
Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency  and 
others  in  high  station  have  sought  to 
overturn  the  decision  or  to  persuade  the 
President  contrary  to  his  inspired  judg- 
ment, and  always,  if  you  will  read  care- 
fully the  history  of  the  Church,  such 
oppositions  brought  not  only  disastrous 
results  to  those  who  resisted  the  decision 
of  the  President,  but  almost  always  such 
temporary  persuasions  were  called  back 
for  reconsideration,  or  a  reversal  of  hasty 
action  not  in  accordance  with  the  feel- 
ings, the  inspired  feelings,  of  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church.  And  that,  I  sub- 
mit, is  one  of  the  fundamental  things 
that  we  must  never  lose  sight  of  in  the 
building  of  the  kingdom  of  God. 

Now  then,  the  summary  I  would  like 
you  to  get  in  order  to  bring  all  these 
statements  together  as  an  introduction: 

"A  significant  and  basic  idea  in  the 
meaning  of  Priesthood  is  made  clear, 
that  is,  that  although  the  President  of 
the  Church  may  hold  and  dispense  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


82 

Saturday,  April  6 

powers  and  administrative  responsibili- 
ties of  that  office,  the  power  of  the 
Priesthood  is  decentralized,  first,  accord- 
ing to  the  offices  and  jurisdiction  of 
those  respective  offices.  Secondly,  ac- 
cording to  the  individual  Priesthood 
bearers.  This  means  that  while  the 
Church  as  a  whole  is  delicately  respon- 
sible to  central  authority  for  Church- 
wide  purposes,  the  central  local  rela- 
tionships in  the  organizations  do  not 
restrict  full  initiative  and  free  develop- 
ment of  either  territorial  division  of  the 
Church,  individual  quorums,  groups  of 
quorums,  or  the  member  as  an  indi- 
vidual." As  I  have  said,  that  quotation 
is  from  one  of  our  recent  study  courses 
for  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood. 

Now  then,  in  order  for  you  to  get  a 
concept  of  what  we  want  to  present, 
I  am  going  to  refer  to  and  repeat  what 
has  been  said  before,  for  as  someone  has 
said,  "repetition  is  the  soul  of  learning." 
President  Brigham  H.  Roberts  had  a 
classic  statement:  "The  recurrence  to 
fundamentals  is  essential  to  perpetuity." 
If  you  can  understand  those  big  words 
that  is  what  I  am  going  to  try  to  do  in 
the  next  few  minutes — to  recur,  or  take 
you  back  for  a  recurrence  to  funda- 
mentals in  order  that  you  might 
perpetuate  in  your  minds  what  we  are 
talking  about  in  the  Correlation 
Program. 

The  key  to  the  whole  correlation 
movement,  which  has  been  given  us  by 
our  present  leaders,  in  defining  the  place 
of  the  auxiliaries  and  the  home  and  the 
priesthood,  is  set  forth  in  this  statement 
made  by  the  Presidency  a  few  years 
ago.  I  quote: 

"The  home  is  the  basis  of  a  righteous 
life  and  no  other  instrumentality  can 
take  its  place  nor  fulfil  its  essential 
functions;  the  utmost  the  auxiliaries  can 
do  is  to  aid  the  home  in  its  problems, 
giving  special  aid  and  succor  where  such 
is  necessary,  that  in  aiding  the  home  the 
auxiliaries  may  well  consider  thinking 
of  home-life  of  the  people  as  having 
three  periods,  the  first,  from  birth  to 
twelve  years  of  age  or  the  childhood 
period;  then  the  youth  period  from 
twelve  years  up  to  the  early  twenties; 
and  then  adulthood,  from  the  early 
twenties  on  to  the  end  of  life." 

Now  it  is  upon  these  fundamentals, 


Second  Day 

simply  stated,  that  we  have  been  guided 
in  our  correlation  studies  of  the  curricula 
and  activities  of  all  the  priesthood  and 
the  auxiliary  organizations.  In  order  to 
set  forth  more  clearly  what  we  were 
now  assigned  to  do  in  this  new  look  at 
correlation,  the  First  Presidency,  under 
date  of  March  24,  1960,  that  means 
just  a  little  over  three  years  ago,  wrote 
this  letter  to  the  general  priesthood 
committee: 

"We  of  the  First  Presidency  have  over 
the  years  felt  the  need  of  a  correlation 
between  and  among  the  courses  of 
study  put  out  by  the  General  Priest- 
hood Committee  and  by  the  responsible 
heads  of  the  other  Committees  of  the 
General  Authorities  for  the  instruction 
of  the  Priesthood  of  the  Church. 

"We  have  also  felt  the  very  urgent 
need  of  a  correlation  of  studies  among 
the  Auxiliaries  of  the  Church.  We  have 
noted  what  seemed  to  be  a  tendency 
toward  a  fundamental,  guiding  concept, 
particularly  among  certain  of  the 
Auxiliary  Organizations,  that  there 
must  be  every  year  a  new  course  of 
study  for  each  of  the  Auxiliary  Organ- 
izations so  moving.  We  question 
whether  the  composite  of  all  of  them 
might  not  tend  away  from  the  develop- 
ment of  a  given  line  of  study  or  activity 
having  the  ultimate  and  desired  objec- 
tive of  building  up  a  knowledge  of  the 
Gospel,  a  power  to  promulgate  the  same, 
a  promotion  of  the  growth,  faith,  and 
stronger  testimony  of  the  principles  of 
the  Gospel  among  the  members  of  the 
Church. 

"We  have  sometimes  been  led  to 
wonder  whether  there  was  a  proper  ob- 
servance of  the  field  of  a  particular 
Auxiliary  of  what  might  be  termed  its 
jurisdiction.  The  question  has  not  been 
absent  from  our  minds  that  there  might 
be  a  concept  entertained  by  some  of 
them  including  within  their  jurisdiction 
the  entire  scope  of  Church  activity,  and 
with  their  members  the  whole  Church 
membership. 

"We  think  that  the  contemplated 
study  by  the  Committee  now  set  up, 
should  have  the  foregoing  matters  in 
mind.  We  feel  assured  that  if  the 
whole  Church  curricula  were  viewed 
from  the  vantage  point  of  what  we 
might  term  the  total  purpose  of  each 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


83 


and  all  of  these  organizations,  it  would 
bring  about  such  a  collation  and  limita- 
tion of  subjects  and  subject  matters 
elaborated  in  the  various  Auxiliary 
courses  as  would  tend  to  the  building  of 
efficiency  in  the  Auxiliaries  themselves 
in  the  matter  of  carrying  out  the  pur- 
poses lying  behind  their  creation  and 
function. 

"We  would  therefore  commend  to  you 
Brethren  of  the  General  Priesthood 
Committee  the  beginning  of  an  exhaus- 
tive, prayerful  study  and  consideration 
of  this  entire  subject,  with  the  co-opera- 
tive assistance  of  the  Auxilaries  them- 
selves so  that  the  Church  might  reap 
the  maximum  harvest  from  the  devotion 
of  the  faith,  intelligence,  skill  and 
knowledge  of  our  various  Auxiliary  Or- 
ganizations and  Priesthood  Committees. 

"This  is  your  authority  to  employ 
such  necessary  technical  help  as  you 
might  need  to  bring  this  about.  We 
shall  await  your  report." 

I  suppose  I  need  not  tell  you  what  a 
soul-searching  assignment  that  was.  We 
found  in  our  study,  that  in  1912  and 
again  in  1920  since  President  McKay 
became  one  of  the  General  Authorities, 
he  was  a  member  of  a  committee  of  the 
Twelve  by  whom  similar  studies  were 
undertaken.  This  means  that  for  a 
matter  of  forty  years  at  least,  this  sub- 
ject of  correlation  had  been  close  to  the 
President's  mind  and  in  his  thoughts  as 
something  very  essential  and  desirable. 

Now,  in  setting  about  to  carry  out 
this  assignment,  it  was  our  first  con- 
clusion that  there  should  be  set  up  a 
co-ordinating  council,  which  we  so 
recommended,  and  which  was  approved. 
We  will  show  you  that  council  in  a 
few  moments.  There  would  be  three 
committees  established,  and  in  harmony 
with  the  letter  which  I  have  just  read 
you,  one  for  youth,  one  for  children,  and 
one  for  adults,  and  it  was  felt  that  the 
Primary  and  the  Sunday  School  would 
probably  be  the  organization  to  teach 
the  children.  The  two  MIA  organiza- 
tions and  the  Sunday  School  and  the 
educational  system  and  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  would  implement  the  pro- 
gram for  the  youth.  The  adults  would 
be  taught  by  the  Sunday  School,  the 
educational  system,  the  Relief  Society, 
and  the  priesthood,  including  the  mem- 


bers of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  over  21, 
and  of  course  some  flexibility  would 
have  to  be  provided  in  these  areas  and 
activities  where  sharp  lines  could  not 
be  drawn. 

When  we  made  our  first  preliminary 
report,  which  we  have  done  step  by  step 
as  we  have  advanced  since  that  first 
assignment,  President  McKay  said  in  a 
meeting  with  the  Presidency  and  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  "This  is  in  the 
right  direction,  and  should  go  forward." 
Encouraged  by  that,  then,  we  took  the 
next  step. 

We  are  going  to  undertake  tonight 
something  that  is  going  to  be  rather 
difficult.  We  are  going  to  show  you 
eight  charts,  which  we  will  now  flash 
on  a  screen.  Because  two  thirds  of  our 
audience  tonight  are  not  within  sight 
of  the  screen,  we  shall  ask  you  who  are 
not  here  or  where  television  is  not  avail- 
able to  you,  to  pay  careful  heed,  and  I 
will  attempt  to  explain  it  sufficiently  so 
you  may  get  some  kind  of  mental  picture 
at  least,  and  if  you  folks  here  who  are 
seeing,  will  watch  these  charts,  perhaps 
I  can  more  quickly  show  you  the  organ- 
ization and  what  has  been  done  up  to 
the  present  time. 

In  order  for  the  General  Authorities 
to  see  the  charts  without  having  to  turn 
around,  we  have  prepared  copies  of 
these  charts  which  the  brethren  will 
pass  out  to  you  now,  and  you  may  then 
follow  without  the  necessity  of  reversing 
your  seats. 

We  have  numbered  these,  as  you  will 
notice,  brethren,  on  the  upper  left-hand 
corner  Number  1,  2,  3,  4,  and  so  on,  so 
you  can  follow  rather  readily.  Now  if  we 
may  have  the  lights  dimmed  and  the 
first  chart  thrown  on  the  screen.  We 
have  left  these  lights  here  dimmed,  I 
think,  enough,  President  McKay,  so  that 
the  brethren  on  the  stand  can  see  and 
yet  it  will  not  take  away  the  effective- 
ness of  the  projection  on  the  screen. 
Now  we  will  show  you  the  first  chart 
and  see  if  that  will  work. 

Chart  #1  shows  the  over-all  organ- 
ization for  all-church  co-ordination, 
with,  of  course,  the  First  Presidency  at 
the  head.  Under  their  direction,  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  and  the  General 
Authorities  associated  with  them,  and 
then  you  will  notice  on  the  left-hand 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  6 

side  of  the  chart  the  Correlation  Com- 
mittee, presently  consisting  of  four 
members  of  the  Twelve.  On  the  right- 
hand  side  you  will  notice  the  auxiliary 
advisers.  These  are  advisers  named  by 
the  First  Presidency  to  each  of  the 
auxiliaries,  two  or  three  or  more  to  each 
such  auxiliary. 

Chart  #2.  This  chart  shows  you  the 
Correlation  Committee.  Then  you  will 
notice  an  All-Church  Co-ordinating 
Council,  as  it  is  called  on  this  chart. 
This  includes  the  four  members  of  the 
Twelve,  representing  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood,  the  Presiding  Bishop  who 
represents  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  the 
chairman  of  the  Genealogical  Society, 
and  the  presidents  and/or  superin- 
tendents of  each  auxiliary  board,  and  a 
representative  of  the  church  school  sys- 
tem. This  council  has  an  executive 
secretary.  Under  the  All-Church  Co- 
ordinating Council  we  have  three  com- 
mittees— The  Children's  Committee; 
the  Youth  Committee;  and  the  Adult 
Committee.  The  chairman  of  each  of 
these  three  committees,  the  Adult  Com- 
mittee, the  Youth  Committee,  and  the 
Committee  for  Children,  is  a  member 
of  the  Twelve.  Each  committee  has  its 
own  executive  secretary. 

Now,  as  the  letter  I  read  you  indi- 
cated, the  three  periods  in  the  span  of 
life  as  set  forth,  are  children  up  to 
twelve  years  of  age,  youth  twelve  to 
the  early  twenties,  and  adults  through 
life.  The  executive,  or  planning  group, 
who  work  with  each  chairman,  have 
from  two  to  four  who  constitute  an 
executive  committee.  Then  we  have  in 
addition  thereto,  twenty-five  well-quali- 
fied brothers  and  sisters  who  are  chosen 
on  the  additional  "task"  committees. 
They  are  at  work  now  reviewing  the 
present  courses  of  study  and  the  pre- 
vious courses  which  have  been  used, 
and  where  necessary  will  recommend 
new  courses  in  order  to  follow  a  pre- 
determined outlined  and  accepted  course 
for  children  from  three  years  of  age  to 
adulthood.  This  complete  outline  of 
subjects  to  be  taught  at  all  ages  has  been 
reviewed  and  presented  to  the  Presi- 
dency and  the  Twelve,  and  now  becomes 
the  plan  which  these  "task"  committees 
will  follow. 

With  each  of  these  committees,  I 


Second  Day 

should  like  to  make  a  special  mention 
of  the  four  brethren  who  serve  as  our 
executive  secretaries,  who  have  done 
such  tremendous  work:  Brother  Antone 
K.  Romney,  Brother  Reed  L.  Bradford, 
Brother  B.  West  Belnap,  Brother 
Vaughn  E.  Hansen,  and  previously 
Brother  Dan  Ludlow,  with  Carol  H. 
Cannon  as  their  secretary.  Night  and 
day  and  throughout  these  years  they 
have  been  excused  from  all  other  church 
assignments,  and  while  carrying  out 
their  ov/n  schoolwork  as  professional 
teachers  at  their  various  universities, 
they  have  carried  on  and  with  their 
planning  groups  have  brought  to  us 
their  excellent  work  for  our  considera- 
tion and  further  development,  which 
progress  report  we  are  trying  to  present 
to  you  tonight. 

In  the  planning  groups  or  executive 
committees  we  have  nine  members  in 
all.  We  have  the  same  kind  of  dedica- 
tion, as  I  explained,  in  twenty-five  more 
who  are  working  on  the  task  committees 
with  the  same  complete  attention  to 
their  specific  assignments.  If  Brother 
Wendell  Ashton  will  pardon  me,  I 
would  like  to  make  a  reference  to  him 
as  an  illustration.  We  were  sitting  in 
a  meeting  the  other  night  where  he, 
representing  the  adult  group  was  in 
session  with  us,  when  the  telephone 
rang.  It  was  word  from  his  home  that 
his  lovely  wife  had  just  passed  away. 
Sick  though  she  was,  he  had  left  her 
bedside  to  counsel  with  us  preparing  for 
this  conference.  From  this  meeting  he 
was  to  return  home  to  his  sorrowing 
family.  I  cite  that  complete  selfless 
service  of  Brother  Ashton,  as  an  example 
of  the  fully  devoted  service  of  these 
committee  members  as  they  work  be- 
hind the  scenes.  I  wish  time  would  per- 
mit me  to  name  them  all. 

As  I  think  of  the  dedication  of  these 
brothers  and  sisters,  I  have  thought 
often  of  something  that  is  reported  to 
have  been  said  by  the  late  President 
J.  Golden  Kimball.  He  was  asked  on 
one  occasion  how  many  people  worked 
in  the  Church  Office  Building,  and  his 
answer  was,  "Oh,  about  a  third  of 
them."  At  least,  we  can  say  to  you  that 
these  folks  represent  the  "third"  of 
which  Brother  Kimball  was  speaking — 
a  thoroughly  dedicated  "working  third." 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


85 


Chart  #3.  In  this  next  chart  you 
will  note  the  auxiliary  advisers  shown 
at  the  top  and  underneath  the  auxiliary 
advisers  on  the  chart,  the  four  aux- 
iliaries, or  five,  if  you  count  the  YWMIA 
and  the  YMMIA  as  separate  organiza- 
tions: Relief  Society,  Sunday  School, 
MIA,  and  Primary  general  boards. 

While  the  correlation  committees  are 
studying  the  courses  of  study,  preparing, 
and  writing  them  if  assigned  to  do  so, 
the  auxiliary  advisers  with  their  gen- 
eral boards  will  now  engage  primarily 
in  leadership  training,  so  you  will  no- 
tice in  the  center  of  that  chart  "Leader- 
ship Training"  is  pictured  as  the  great 
task  of  the  general  auxiliary  boards  with 
their  advisers.  This  is  done  first  at  their 
annual  conference,  such  as  has  just  been 
held  by  the  general  board  of  the  Pri- 
mary Association  and  is  now  in  process 
of  being  held  by  the  general  Sunday 
School  board.  Here  in  these  annual 
conferences  there  will  be  a  preview  of 
courses  of  study  and  activities,  and  then 
at  stake  quarterly  conference  (you  will 
notice  on  the  right-hand  side)  where 
once  annually,  each  auxiliary  organiza- 
tion will  send  a  representative  who  will 
bring  to  each  stake  a  program  for  train- 
ing and  instruction  of  local  leaders. 
Most  of  you  now  have  had  visits  from 
the  Relief  Society  and  Primary  repre- 
sentatives, and  almost  uniformly  we 
have  heard  nothing  but  commendation 
from  stake  presidents  for  the  excellent 
service  these  auxiliary  representatives 
have  rendered  at  stake  conferences.  The 
Sunday  School  and  MIA  will  attend 
conferences  during  the  third  and  fourth 
quarters  of  the  year.  These  auxiliary 
representatives  will  give  leadership 
training  to  stake  leaders  in  separate 
meetings  throughout  Saturday,  and  then 
to  priesthood  leaders  in  the  evening, 
and  then  participate,  under  the  direc- 
tion of  stake  presidents,  in  the  general 
sessions  on  Sunday,  to  bring  their  re- 
spective auxiliary  programs  to  the  body 
of  the  Church.  These  stake  confer- 
ences, attended  by  auxiliary  representa- 
tives will  take  the  place  of  what  have 
been  called  heretofore,  the  annual  aux- 
iliary conventions. 

Chart  #4.  The  next  chart  shows  four 
other  phases  of  the  work,  you  will  no- 
tice.   Under  the  First  Presidency  and 


the  Twelve,  General  Authorities  will 
be  sent  out  to  stake  conferences,  alter- 
nating with  the  general  auxiliary  boards, 
and  you  will  notice  at  the  bottom  of 
the  chart  the  four  phases  of  work  which 
will  be  stressed  when  the  General  Au- 
thorities come. 

In  the  first  two  quarters  of  this  year 
welfare  work  and  genealogy  work  were 
stressed  and  will  be  stressed  to  the  end 
of  the  second  quarter.  For  the  last 
half  of  the  year,  missionary  work  and 
what  we  are  calling  "Home  Teaching" 
will  be  stressed  by  General  Authorities 
and  their  associates. 

We  will  speak  of  "Home  Teaching" 
in  just  a  moment. 

Chart  #5.  Now  with  this  next  chart 
I  want  to  pause  a  moment  to  illustrate 
something  of  our  procedure,  as  we  have 
developed  the  correlation  program,  step 
by  step.  You  will  notice  here  again,  and 
to  you  who  are  listening,  the  First  Presi- 
dency at  the  top  of  the  chart,  and  under 
the  Presidency,  the  General  Authori- 
ties, and  then  you  will  notice  in  a  sub- 
ordinated position  the  words,  "general 
priesthood  board"  in  parentheses,  and 
stemming  out  from  the  box  showing  the 
General  Authorities  or  (general  priest- 
hood board,)  you  will  see  four  commit- 
tees who  will  assist  the  General  Author- 
ities: a  priesthood  missionary  committee, 
a  priesthood  welfare  committee,  a 
priesthood  Home  Teaching  committee, 
and  a  priesthood  genealogical  commit- 
tee. All  of  these  programs,  therefore, 
are  to  be  priesthood-centered. 

When  we  brought  this  recommenda- 
tion to  the  First  Presidency  designating 
a  general  priesthood  board  in  a  super- 
visory position,  President  McKay  made 
a  very  significant  statement  to  the  effect 
that,  years  ago,  when  the  committee  of 
the  Twelve  on  which  he  was  then  work- 
ing with  a  similar  problem  had 
suggested  the  setting  up  of  a  general 
priesthood  board,  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith  had  said,  "You  have  a  general 
priesthood  board.  You  as  the  Quorum 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  constitute  the 
priesthood  board." 

In  that  naming  of  the  Twelve  as  the 
general  priesthood  board,  the  President 
of  the  Church  was  but  repeating  in 
essence  what  the  Lord  had  said.  Let 
me  read  you  three  brief  verses. 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  6 

"The  Twelve  are  a  Traveling  Presid- 
ing High  Council,  to  officiate  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord,  under  the  direction 
of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  agree- 
able to  the  institution  of  heaven;  to 
build  up  the  church,  and  regulate  all 
the  affairs  of  the  same  in  all  nations, 
first  unto  the  Gentiles  and  secondly 
unto  the  Jews." 

Then  this  reference  to  the  Seventy: 
"The  Seventy  are  to  act  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord,  under  the  direction  of  the 
Twelve  or  the  traveling  high  council,  in 
building  up  the  church  and  regulating 
all  the  affairs  of  the  same  in  all  nations, 
first  unto  the  Gentiles  and  then  to 
the  Jews;" 

Then  finally,  "Whereas  other  officers 
of  the  church,  who  belong  not  unto  the 
Twelve,  neither  to  the  Seventy,  are  not 
under  the  responsibility  to  travel  among 
all  nations,  but  are  to  travel  as  their 
circumstances  shall  allow,  notwith- 
standing they  may  hold  as  high  and 
responsible  offices  in  the  church." 
(D&C  107:33-34,  98.) 

And  if  you  will  think  of  the  place 
of  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  you 
will  begin  to  see  how  the  Lord  very 
clearly  in  that  last  quotation  opened 
up  the  possibility  of  that  very  kind  of 
appointment,  just  as  the  Lord  had  said 
there  would  be,  "other  officers  not  of 
the  Twelve  neither  the  Seventies — not- 
withstanding they  may  hold  as  high 
and  responsible  offices  in  the  Church." 
Working  with  the  Twelve,  then,  serving 
as  a  general  priesthood  board  assisted 
by  others  of  the  General  Authorities, 
will  be  these  four  sub-committees, 
priesthood-centered,  directed  by  the 
general  priesthood  board  which  is,  as 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith  had  described, 
the  priesthood  responsibility  of  the 
Twelve.  A  member  of  the  Twelve  will 
be  the  chairman  of  each  such  commit- 
tee, with  an  Assistant  to  the  Twelve  as 
a  managing  director,  and  others  to  form 
an  administrative  staff,  with  committee 
members  who  will  serve  as  members 
on  each  of  these  committees  who  may 
be  thought  of  as  field  representatives. 
There  probably  will  be  as  many  as 
twenty  or  twenty-five  on  each  com- 
mittee. (These  will  be  full  church 
service  time  associates  but  not  required 
to  give  full  time  as  do  the  Assistants 


Second  Day 

to  the  Twelve  and  the  other  General 
Authorities,  i.e.,  they  are  to  be  released 
from  other  church  assignments  conflict- 
ing with  this  assignment.  They  will 
function  under  the  direction  of  the  Gen- 
eral Authorities  in  some  respects  as  do 
the  auxiliary  boards  in  the  matter  of 
call  and  release.)  The  priesthood  welfare 
committee  will  have  as  chairman  the 
Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church,  as  was 
announced  by  President  Moyle  today, 
when  the  general  officers  of  the  Church 
were  sustained,  with  an  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve  as  the  managing  director  and 
others  as  an  administrative  staff  and 
committee  who  will  work  with  him. 

As  we  study  the  appointments  of  these 
brethren,  we  think  that  at  some  stake 
conferences,  in  foreign  countries,  one 
brother  might  give  attention  to  both 
programs  by  going  before  and  staying 
a  day  after  the  conference.  We  may 
find  some  committee  members  who  can 
teach  one  program  for  the  first  half  of 
the  year  and  another  program  for  the 
second  half,  if  his  personal  affairs  per- 
mit. This  is  all  being  studied  by  the 
Twelve  to  see  what  can  be  done  to 
increase  efficiency  and  to  keep  travel 
costs  to  a  minimum. 

Chart  #6.  Here  now  we  will  show 
you  the  introduction  of  what  we  are 
calling  the  priesthood  Home  Teaching 
program.  This  is  a  program  which  we 
are  going  to  study  now  in  great  detail 
as  we  come  out  to  your  stake  confer- 
ences, so  I  shall  only  speak  in  headlines 
here  tonight.  To  you  who  are  listening, 
at  the  top  of  the  page  we  say  "Priest- 
hood Correlation."  It  is  a  Home  Teach- 
ing organization  chart. 

This  new  program  is  to  be  introduced 
and  taught  during  the  last  two  quarters 
of  1963  and  will  be  inaugurated  in  full 
scale,  January  1,  1964.  This  phase  of 
the  work  is  known  as  "Home  Teaching." 
This  designation  was  made  after  prayer- 
ful discussion  by  the  Co-ordinating 
Council  and  by  the  First  Presidency  and 
the  Twelve  to  emphasize  an  enlargement 
of  the  scope  of  responsibility  previously 
in  what  we  have  called  "Ward  Teach- 
ing." Emphasis  on  the  responsibilities 
of  the  entire  priesthood  to  "watch  over 
the  Church"  as  commanded  in  the  early 
revelations — to  be  concerned  with  the 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


87 


whole  family  as  a  group  and  as 
individuals. 

In  each  stake  there  will  be  set 
up  a  Home  Teaching  committee  as  you 
will  see  at  the  top  of  the  chart  which 
will  consist  of  the  stake  presidency,  the 
general  secretary  for  Home  Teaching, 
who  will  be  one  of  the  high  councilmen 
who  is  also  a  member  of  the  stake  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood  committee,  and  an 
assistant  stake  clerk  for  Home  Teaching. 

Under  the  supervision  of  the  stake 
Home  Teaching  committee,  as  the  chart 
shows,  in  each  ward  there  will  be  a 
ward  Home  Teaching  committee,  con- 
sisting of  the  ward  bishopric,  an  as- 
sistant ward  clerk  for  ward  teaching, 
and  a  high  priest's  group  leader,  the 
seventy's  president  or  group  leader,  and 
the  elder's  president.  Now  this  will 
constitute  the  core  of  those  who  now 
will  go  out  to  "watch  over  the  Church." 
Priesthood  group  leaders  will  confer 
with  the  bishop,  and  the  bishop  will  in 
turn  determine  who  shall  be  assigned  to 
work  with  certain  families.  These  Home 
Teachers  will  then  report  back  to  their 
priesthood  group  leader  or  president, 
who  in  turn,  will  report  to  the  bishop. 

Chart  #7.  This  chart  will  show  you 
the  high  priests,  who  as  senior  com- 
panions, so  far  as  is  practicable,  will 
work  with  high  priests.  They  may  be 
in  some  cases  accompanied  by  an 
Aaronic  Priesthood  member,  and  they 
will  visit  the  homes  of  high  priests  or 
high  priests'  widows. 

The  seventies  at  the  top  of  the  page, 
or  group  leaders,  will  be  assigned  so  far 
as  practicable  to  work  with  seventies 
as  senior  companions,  with  possibly  a 
junior  companion  from  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood.  They  will  visit  the  homes 
of  seventies  and  their  widows,  and  so 
with  the  elders. 

Chart  #8.  Now  on  the  next  page  you 
will  see  the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  The 
general  secretary  over  21  will  work  with 
the  home  teachers,  advisers  to  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  over  21  as  senior 
companions,  and  visit  the  homes  of 
Aaronic  Priesthood  over  21  and  the 
unordained. 

On  the  opposite  side  you  will  notice 
in  the  writing  something  that  is  very 
significant.  Auxiliary  leaders  will  assist 
priesthood  leaders  in  the  Home  Teach- 


ing program  as  directed  by  the  stake  and 
ward  priesthood  leadership.  This  meet- 
ing of  priesthood  and  auxiliary  leaders 
will  constitute  what  will  be  called  the 
Ward  Council.  You  stake  presidents  have 
been  holding  a  monthly  meeting  with 
this  group  of  ward  leaders.  This  meeting 
has  been  known  by  different  names — 
ward  officers  meeting,  ward  faculty 
meeting,  ward  correlation  meeting,  etc. 
— but  will  now  be  known  as  a  Ward 
Council  meeting  where  representatives 
of  all  auxiliaries  may  be  invited  to 
meet  with  priesthood  representatives. 
In  cases  of  special  need,  this  chart  ex- 
plains the  bishop  will  make  adjustments 
in  assignments  as  necessary;  for  exam- 
ple, there  may  be  women  assigned  to 
go  with  their  husbands  on  occasion  or 
there  may  be  called  specialists  from 
priesthood  or  auxiliary  organizations 
where  they  are  having  a  particular 
problem  with  a  boy  or  girl  or  a  man 
or  woman,  as  the  case  might  be. 

Now  with  those  few  charts  in  mind, 
if  the  lights  can  be  put  on,  let  me  make 
just  one  or  two  closing  comments.  In 
the  instruction  book,  which  will  be  put 
in  the  hands  of  all  leaders,  President 
McKay  has  prepared  a  foreword  in 
which  he  has  stressed  these  very  things 
we  are  talking  about.  This  is  what 
President  McKay  will  say  in  his  fore- 
word: "A  Divine  Service." 

"Home  Teaching  is  one  of  our  most 
urgent  and  most  rewarding  opportunities 
to  nurture  and  inspire,  to  counsel  and 
direct  our  Father's  children  in  all  that 
pertains  to  life.  Through  the  priesthood 
quorums,  and  under  the  Bishop's  direc- 
tion, Home  Teaching  takes  the  message 
of  the  gospel,  the  message  of  life  and 
salvation  and  brotherly  love,  into  the 
home,  wherein  lies  the  first  and  foremost 
opportunity  for  teaching  in  the  Church. 

"Three  things  should  be  kept  in  mind 
in  thorough  preparation  for  Home 
Teaching: 

"First,  a  knowledge  of  those  whom  you 
are  to  teach.  As  each  family  is  different 
from  another,  so  each  individual  in  the 
family  differs  from  others.  Methods  and 
messages  should  vary  according  to  each 
individual,  and  according  to  his  prob- 
lems and  needs. 

"To  perform  fully  our  duty  as  a  Home 
Teacher  we  would  need  to  be  con- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


88 

Saturday,  April  6 

tinually  aware  of  the  attitudes,  the 
activities  and  interests,  the  problems, 
the  employment,  the  health,  the  hap- 
piness, the  plans  and  purposes,  the 
physical  and  temporal  and  spiritual 
needs  and  circumstances  of  everyone — 
of  every  child,  every  youth,  and  every 
adult  in  the  homes  and  families  who 
have  been  placed  in  our  trust  and  care 
as  a  bearer  of  the  priesthood  and  as  a 
representative  of  the  bishop. 

"Second,  is  a  knowledge  of  what  you 
are  to  teach.  It  is  the  Home  Teacher's 
duty  to  teach  that  Jesus  the  Christ  is 
the  Redeemer  of  the  World,  and  that 
Joseph  Smith  and  his  successors  are 
prophets  of  God,  and  that  the  gospel 
has  been  restored,  and  that  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is 
being  divinely  led  and  offers  happiness 
eternal  life  and  exaltation  for  all  who 
are  willing  to  learn  and  to  live  its  prin- 
ciples. The  earnestness  of  your  testi- 
mony and  the  sincerity  of  your  service 
will  help  give  life  and  purpose  and  a 
desire  for  full  fellowship  in  the  Church 
to  those  whom  you  teach. 

"Third,  is  a  knowledge  of  how  we  are 
going  to  teach.  If  we  may  take  some 
language  from  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, and  apply  it  to  this  purpose:  The 
Home  Teacher  should  'visit  the  house  of 
each  member'  and  'teach,  expound,'  and 
exhort  them  to  pray  vocally  and  in 
secret  and  attend  to  all  family  duties 
and  'watch  over  the  Church  always,  and 
be  with  and  strengthen  them'— and  this 
means  always — however  and  whenever 
and  with  whatever  may  be  necessary. 

"Home  Teaching  is  a  divine  service, 
a  divine  call.  It  is  our  duty  as  Home 
Teachers  to  carry  the  divine  spirit  into 
every  home  and  heart.  To  love  the 
work  and  do  our  best  will  bring  the 
unbounded  peace  and  joy  and  satisfac- 
tion of  a  noble,  dedicated  Teacher  of 
God's  children." 

Here,  then,  you  will  see  a  home- 
centered,  priesthood-centered  responsi- 
bility in  which  every  member  of  the 
priesthood  is  expected  to  function. 

No  one  holding  the  priesthood  is  to 
be  exempt  from  a  bishop's  assignment 
to  work  in  this  program. 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  must  have 
been  of  the  same  opinion  because  he 
said:  "Brother  Charles  W.  Penrose  is 


Second  Day 

eighty-two  years  of  age.  I  am  going  on 
seventy-six  .  .  .  and  I  want  to  tell  .  .  . 
you  that  we  are  not  too  old  to  act  as 
teachers,  if  you  will  call  on  us  to  do  it, 
not  one  of  us.  .  .  .  So  long  as  life  lasts, 
and  so  long  as  we  possess  ability  to  do 
good,  to  labor  in  the  upbuilding  of  Zion 
for  the  benefit  of  the  human  family, 
we  ought,  with  willingness,  with  alacrity 
to  yield  to  the  requirements  made  of  us 
to  do  our  duty.  .  .  ." 

Just  one  final  thought.  When  this 
correlation  plan,  thus  far  developed,  was 
finally  presented,  President  McKay 
made  this  statement.  "This  is  not  only 
a  wonderful  step  forward  but  a  bound 
forward.  My  soul  rejoices!  I  think  the 
whole  thing  is  glorious!  We  can  all  see 
opportunities  for  the  priesthood  to  be- 
come active  and  as  quorums  also:  I 
think  this  is  growth.  It  warms  my  soul!" 

And  all  of  us  who  have  been  privi- 
leged to  work  in  the  correlation  studies 
feel  as  the  President  has  expressed  him- 
self. Each  step  forward,  however,  opens 
up  a  new  vista  of  new  responsibility,  so 
that  we  feel  something  like  the  great 
empire  builder,  Sir  Cecil  John  Rhodes, 
who  said  in  his  last  and  dying  words, 
after  a  lifetime  of  great  accomplish- 
ments, "So  little  done,  so  much  to  do." 

That  is  the  way  we  feel  about  it.  "So 
little  done,  and  so  much  that  lies  yet 
ahead."  We  must  expect  opposition, 
and  sometimes  that  opposition  may 
come  from  inside,  but  remember  what 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  our  early 
leader  said:  "The  nearer  a  person  ap- 
proaches the  Lord,  the  greater  the 
power  will  be  manifested  by  the  Ad- 
versary to  prevent  the  accomplishment 
of  his  purposes."  One  of  the  brethren, 
President  John  Taylor,  said  he  heard 
the  Prophet  say,  "You  have  all  kinds 
of  trials  to  pass  through,  and  it  is  quite 
as  necessary  for  you  to  be  tried  even  as 
Abraham,  and  other  men  of  God,"  and 
said  he,  "God  will  feel  after  you,  he 
will  take  hold  of  you  and  wrench  your 
very  heartstrings,  and  if  you  cannot 
stand  it  you  will  not  be  fit  for  an  in- 
heritance in  the  Kingdom  of  God." 

Well,  now  may  I  close  with  a  state- 
ment, paraphrasing  what  the  Lord  said 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  to  his 
associates   in   the   priesthood    of  the 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


89 


Church:  "Brethren,  shall  we  not  go  on 
in  so  great  a  cause?  Go  forward  and  not 
backward.  Courage,  brethren,  and  on, 
on  to  victory,"  for  which  I  pray  humbly 
and  fervently  we  may  do,  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Brother  Winston  Hansen  will  now 


lead  us,  the  congregation  and  chorus, 
in  singing  "Do  What  Is  Right." 


Singing  by  the  Chorus  and  congrega- 
tion, "Do  What  Is  Right." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown  will  be  our 
next  speaker. 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


Brethren  and  fellow  workers: 

Of  the  many  groups  we  are  asked  to 
address  from  time  to  time,  there  is  none 
more  inspiring,  but  more  humbling, 
than  this  body  of  priesthood,  thousands 
of  whom  we  can  see  and  probably  tens 
of  thousands  whom  we  cannot  see.  One 
approaches  the  responsibility  of  a  few 
moments  talk  with  deep  humility  and  a 
prayer  for  divine  guidance.  I  shall  speak 
for  a  few  minutes  only,  as  we  are  all 
anxious  to  hear  from  President  McKay. 

I  certainly  congratulate  Brother  Lee 
on  his  excellent  presentation  of  a  diffi- 
cult program,  which  has  taken  the  com- 
mittee several  years  to  work  out.  He 
has  been  trying  to  get  us  to  see  it  in 
just  a  few  minutes  and  has  done  a 
very  good  job  of  compressing  into  those 
few  minutes  what  could  well  occupy 
several  hours. 

Among  other  things  I  have  been  im- 
pressed by  the  fact  that  it  is  not  easy 
to  be  a  Latter-day  Saint.  I  notice  these 
charts  call  for  work,  work,  work  on  the 
part  of  all  concerned.  In  some  churches, 
one  man,  as  has  already  been  indicated, 
does  most  of  the  work.  In  this  Church 
all  of  us  are  expected  to  participate. 

Another  thing  that  impressed  me  as  I 
listened  to  Brother  Lee's  explanation  of 
this  program  that  will  be  carried  for- 
ward under  the  direction  of  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church  is  that  it  provides 
opportunity  for  everyone  who  is  willing 
to  make  some  contribution  to  the  cause. 
We  recognize  in  the  Church  a  cause 
which  is  greater  and  more  important 
than  we  are  as  individuals,  and  in  it  we 
enjoy  the  fellowship  of  our  brethren 


who  hold  the  priesthood.  Unless  we 
with  them  can  co-operate  in  advancing 
that  cause,  we  shall  not  make  a  suc- 
cess of  this  program.  We  should  all 
give  to  this  committee  not  only  a  vote 
of  thanks  by  expressing  it  in  words  but 
a  vote  of  appreciation  by  putting  into 
operation  the  work  as  here  outlined  and 
as  it  will  be  more  fully  explained  as  we 
go  forward.  Let  no  one  of  us  feel  or 
say  or  think  that  the  brethren  are  just 
trying  to  find  something  more  for  us 
to  do — don't  think  that  because  they  are 
— they  are  trying  to  find  something  for 
us  to  do  because  they  know  there  is  only 
one  way  to  salvation,  that  is  by  active 
participation. 

In  all  teaching — and  one  of  the  func- 
tions of  the  priesthood  is  teaching — 
what  the  teacher  is  counts  for  more 
than  what  he  says.  What  we  are  as 
members  of  the  priesthood  and  as  mis- 
sionaries in  the  field,  at  home  or 
abroad,  means  more  to  those  to  whom 
we  go  than  what  we  teach.  So  my 
first  thought  is,  let  us  be  what  we 
teach.  The  teacher  and  the  truth  taught 
should  be  of  the  same  pattern.  Let 
each  one  be  an  example  to  all  whose 
lives  we  touch;  let  us  recognize  in  all  of 
our  fellow  workers  some  value,  some 
worth,  and  never  forget  that  each  one 
of  them  has  a  heart,  has  feelings,  has 
ambition,  has  a  certain  amount  of  pride; 
therefore,  let  us  never  by  virtue  of  the 
priesthood  or  the  positions  we  hold 
trample  on  the  rights  or  the  feelings  of 
our  fellow  men;  let  us  never  be  sharp 
in  what  we  say  to  them  by  way  of  criti- 
cism, but  let  us  be  kindly,  considerate, 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  6 

and  have  in  our  hearts  a  love  for  our 
fellow  men,  for  in  each  one  of  them 
there  is  value. 

I  read  something  this  morning  I'd 
like  to  leave  with  you.  Every  human 
life  has  in  it  more  or  less  gold  which  is 
usually  not  readily  apparent  to  the  cas- 
ual observer.  Kindness  is  a  part  of  that 
gold,  the  gold  of  the  spirit,  that  part 
which  is  known  to  others  because  it  has 
lessened  their  burdens  and  made  their 
pathways  lovelier.  The  man  who  has 
gold  in  his  life  has  something  that  is 
bigger  than  anything  that  can  happen 
to  him.  He  doesn't  worry  about  defeats 
or  obstacles  or  sorrows,  for  he  knows 
these  are  but  froth  on  the  river  of  life 
to  last  but  a  brief  time  and  then  be 
blown  away.  What  matters  is  not  the 
froth,  but  the  strong,  pulsating,  on- 
going current  in  the  river,  which  is 
never  disturbed  by  the  leaves  floating 
up  at  the  quiet  eddies  of  the  surface. 
One  day  you  may  find  that  your  house 
of  life  has  collapsed,  but  in  the  wreck- 
age you  may  find  the  gold  which  can- 
not be  destroyed,  not  by  the  worst 
disaster,  for  the  gold  of  life  is  imperish- 
able and  immortal.  Search  for  it  in  the 
wreckage,  for  out  of  it  you  can  mint 
new  coins.  Out  of  defeat  arises  the 
gold  of  life. 

Priesthood  involves  presidency,  au- 
thority, and  power;  it  involves  the  right 
and  duty  under  certain  circumstances 
to  reprove  others.  You  remember  what 
the  Prophet  said,  "Reproving  betimes 
with  sharpness,  .  .  .  and  then  showing 
forth  .  .  .  increase  of  love.  .  .  ."  (D&C 
121:43.)  Let  us  be  very  careful  about 
this  matter  of  reproving,  and  yet  part 
of  our  duty  is  to  see  that  there  is  no 
iniquity  in  the  Church.  Again  I  say, 
let  us  be  careful  how  we  trample  on  the 
feelings  of  our  brothers  and  sisters.  Let 
us  lift  them  and  bless  them  and  benefit 
them  as  we  go  forward  and  never  be 
guilty  of  humiliating  them  or  causing 
them  to  think  that  we  do  not  appre- 
ciate their  work. 

The  next  thought  I'd  like  to  leave 
with  you  is  that  we  must  not  be  de- 
ceived by  the  boom  in  numbers  and 
dollars  and  buildings  going  on  in  the 
Church.  We  thank  the  Lord  for  them, 
but  they  are  not  the  main  part  of  our 
work.    All  we  need  to  say  on  that  is 


Second  Day 

that  the  body  without  the  spirit  is  dead. 

As  we  go  forward  in  the  special  work 
of  the  priesthood,  which  is  missionary 
work  both  for  the  living  and  the  dead, 
and  as  we  carry  the  gospel  to  our  friends 
who  are  not  members  of  the  Church, 
let  us  try  to  keep  things  in  proper  bal- 
ance. The  revealed  order  is  faith  and 
then  repentance  and  then  baptism.  A 
Baptist  minister  was  heard  to  say  about 
some  of  his  own  people  recently  that 
the  church  had  recruited  some  people 
who  had  been  starched  and  ironed  be- 
fore they  were  washed.  I  think  we 
might  take  a  lesson  from  that  thought 
and  convert  the  people  before  we  bap- 
tize them. 

Let  us  read  from  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  with  respect  to  priesthood. 
This  is  a  section  with  which  you  are 
more  or  less  familiar,  but  I  never  hesitate 
to  refer  again  to  that  which  has  been 
referred  to  so  often  any  more  than  I 
would  hesitate  to  invite  a  friend  to  come 
to  my  table  when  I  had  only  the  things 
that  we  usually  serve  at  the  table.  We 
do  not  complain  much  because  we  do 
not  have  something  different  at  every 
meal.  We  enjoy  that  which  is  set  be- 
fore us  if  we  have  an  appetite  for  it. 
The  Lord  said: 

".  .  .  whoso  is  faithful  unto  the  ob- 
taining these  two  priesthoods  of  which 
I  have  spoken,  and  the  magnifying  their 
calling,  are  sanctified  by  the  Spirit  unto 
the  renewing  of  their  bodies."  (Ibid., 
84:33.) 

Brethren,  I  bear  testimony  to  the  fact 
that  that  promise  has  been  realized  in 
the  lives  of  many  of  us.  I  know  that  it 
has  been  realized  in  the  life  of  President 
David  O.  McKay,  that  he  has  been  sanc- 
tified by  the  Spirit  unto  the  renewing 
of  his  body,  and  some  of  the  rest  of 
us  are  better  off  today  than  we  were 
many  years  ago  so  far  as  physical  health 
is  concerned — and  we  attribute  that  fact 
to  his  blessing. 

"They  become  the  sons  of  Moses  and 
of  Aaron  and  the  seed  of  Abraham,  and 
the  church  and  kingdom,  and  the  elect 
of  God. 

".  .  .  also  all  they  who  receive  this 
priesthood  receive  me,  saith  the  Lord; 

"For  he  that  receiveth  my  servants 
receiveth  me; 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


91 


"And  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth 
my  Father; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  my  Father  re- 
ceiveth my  Father's  kingdom;  therefore 
all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be  given 
unto  him. 

"And  this  is  according  to  the  oath 
and  covenant  which  belongeth  to  the 
priesthood. 

"Therefore,  all  those  who  receive  the 
priesthood,  receive  this  oath  and  cove- 
nant of  my  Father,  which  he  cannot 
break,  neither  can  it  be  moved."  (Ibid., 
84:34-40.) 

It  is  important  that  we  consider  oc- 
casionally the  oath  and  the  covenant 
which  each  of  us  has  taken.  All 
who  have  been  baptized  and  all  who 
hold  the  priesthood  are  under  cove- 
nant to  do  and  refrain  from  doing 
certain  things.  We  must  remember 
and  keep  our  covenants,  one  of  which 
is  that  we  be  willing  to  give  of  our- 
selves, our  means,  and  all  that  we 
have  to  the  upbuilding  of  the  Church 
and  kingdom  of  God. 

Young  fellow  workers,  deacons  and 
teachers  and  priests,  we  who  are  grow- 
ing older  have  great  confidence  in  you, 
based  upon  what  we  believe  to  be  a 
fact,  that  you  would  not  now  be  holding 
the  priesthood  unless  God  had  thought 
you  worthy  of  it  and  unless  he  had 
something  for  you  to  do.  Each  one  of 
you  young  men  who  is  listening  tonight 
has  a  future.  What  that  future  is  to  be 
will  depend  upon  your  attitude  toward 
your  calling,  your  faith  in  yourselves, 
your  belief  that  there  is  some  gold  in 
you.  It  is  important  that  you  young 
men  and  all  of  us  try  to  refine  that 
gold  by  active  participation  and  not  wait 
until  the  house  is  burned  down,  and  we 
have  passed  through  the  fire.  It  is 
very  important  that  every  young  man 
make  up  his  mind  that  he  is  going  to 
respond  to  the  voice  of  conscience,  that 
he  is  going  to  be  true  to  himself  and 
not  yield  to  the  down-drag  of  any  en- 
vironment in  which  he  may  find  himself. 

May  I  tell  a  story  to  illustrate  the 
point  that  a  man  must  respond  to  his 
better  self  if  he  is  going  to  be  a  worthy 
holder  of  the  priesthood.  The  story  is 
told  that  the  Arabians,  when  they  are 


training  their  horses,  put  them  to  a  final 
test  of  character  and  stamina.  It  is  said 
that  the  finest  of  the  Arabian  horses 
which  are  kept  for  breeding  stock  are 
trained  from  the  time  they  are  colts  to 
respond  to  a  bell  which  rings  inter- 
mittently at  the  tent  of  the  master. 
Wherever  they  are  and  whatever  they 
are  doing,  they  must  run  to  the  tent  of 
the  master  when  the  bell  rings.  Their 
mothers  were  taught  it  before  them,  and 
they  respond,  and  the  colt,  running  be- 
side the  mother,  habitually  as  time  goes 
on  responds  to  the  bell  and  knows  that 
it  is  the  call  of  duty.  When  the  colts 
are  three  years  old,  they  are  placed  in 
a  corral,  a  pole  corral  that  they  can 
see  through.  They  are  left  there  three 
days  and  nights  without  food  or  water. 
At  the  end  of  the  third  day  hay  and 
grain  and  water  are  placed  just  outside 
the  corral.  You  can  imagine  the  eager- 
ness of  the  young  colts  as  they  look 
through  the  bars  at  the  food  and  water. 
When  the  gate  is  opened  the  young 
colts  rush  out,  and  just  as  they  are  about 
to  reach  the  food  and  water,  the 
bell  rings.  Only  those  of  them  that 
have  stamina  enough  to  respond  to 
the  bell  and  resist  the  urge  of  appe- 
tite are  kept  for  the  breeding  stock  of 
the  future. 

Brethren,  as  we  go  forward,  we  be- 
come increasingly  aware  of  the  fact 
that  there  is  a  bell  which  rings  very 
frequently  throughout  life.  Sometimes 
men  become  unresponsive  or  hard  of 
hearing  and  disregard  the  bell  to  their 
own  sorrow.  You  young  men  are  going 
to  hear  it  many  times  between  now  and 
the  time  you  are  our  age.  We  plead 
with  you  to  resist  the  call  of  appetite 
and  passion  and  hearken  to  the  bell 
which  is  your  conscience.  If  you  are 
tempted  to  do  wrong,  there  will  always 
be  something  within  you  saying,  "Don't 
do  it."  Hearken  and  respond  to  that 
bell,  and  you  will  be  worthy  of  the  con- 
fidence that  the  President  of  the  Church 
has  in  you,  worthy  to  take  over  the 
responsibilities  now  held  by  your  fathers, 
your  brothers,  your  leaders. 

God  bless  you  and  all  of  us  that  we 
may  co-operate  with  the  General  Au- 
thorities, with  the  stake  and  ward  and 


92 

Saturday,  April  6 

mission  authorities,  and  be  responsive 
to  their  admonitions.  The  Church — your 
Church  and  my  Church  is  growing  in 
numbers  and  influence  with  an  accele- 
rating speed  beyond  anything  that  we 
who  are  older  could  have  imagined  in 
our  youth.  I  am  grateful  for  and  testify 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

to  the  truth  of  the  restored  gospel  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Henry  D.  Moylc  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  now  speak  to  us. 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


President  McKay  visited  Laie  in  Hawaii 
in  1921  with  President  Hugh  J.  Cannon 
[of  Liberty  Stake.]  This  was  part  of 
their  world  tour.  It  was  the  flag-raising 
ceremony  at  the  little  school  in  Laie 
that  inspired  President  McKay  to  im- 
prove the  educational  facilities  of  the 
Islands.  He  saw  Hawaiian,  Chinese, 
Japanese,  Korean,  and  Caucasian  chil- 
dren and  mixed  racial  strains.  They  all 
with  fervor  saluted  our  flag  without  a 
trace  of  racial  disparity. 

A  little  Japanese  boy,  it  is  reported, 
stepped  into  the  center  of  the  circle 
and  with  his  hand  over  his  heart  pledged 
his  allegiance  to  the  flag  of  the  United 
States.  It  was  at  that  moment  that 
President  McKay  was  inspired  ulti- 
mately to  see  to  it  that  a  college  would 
be  built  at  Laie.  This  spot  had  already 
been  dedicated  as  a  spiritual  center, 
and  President  McKay  was  inspired  with 
the  desire  to  dedicate  it  as  an  educa- 
tional center  also,  and  since  1951  the 
following  schools  have  been  built  in 
the  Polynesian  area: 

The  Church  College  of  Hawaii;  The 
Church  College  of  New  Zealand;  Lia- 
hona  College,  Tonga;  Church  College  of 
Western  Samoa;  Mapasaga  High  School, 
American  Samoa;  five  primary  schools 
in  these  areas;  and  one  primary  school 
is  now  being  built  in  Tahiti. 

It  was  the  building  of  some  of  these 
smaller  schools  in  the  Pacific  from 
which  the  Church  building  program  de- 
veloped. The  missionary  building  pro- 
gram found  its  origin  in  a  spiritual 
impression,  a  revelation,  if  you  please,  to 
a  future  President  of  the  Church.  It 
is  still  the  desire  of  President  McKay 
to  bring  the  full  church  program  to  all 
members  of  the  Church  everywhere.  He 
emphasizes  two  things:  the  need  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  and  the  need  of  the  full 


church  program  to  assist  us,  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  to  do  our  full 
church  duty.  And  I  am  sure  that  it  is 
going  to  take  both  dedication  and  devo- 
tion on  the  part  of  all  of  us  to  carry 
out  the  great  church  program. 

I  want  to  say  that  President  McKay, 
who  was  sustained  as  our  leader  twelve 
years  ago,  has  done  as  much  as  any 
mortal  man  could  do,  in  laboring  for 
the  individual  interest  of  every  mem- 
ber of  the  Church. 

The  accomplishments  are  phenom- 
enal. It  was  during  a  meeting  of  the 
expenditures  committee  on  April  17, 
1962  that  a  report  of  the  vast  building 
program  of  the  Church  projected  for 
the  future,  tremendous  in  its  scope,  was 
given,  and  the  anticipated  growth  of  the 
church  membership  was  estimated,  that 
the  question  was  asked:  "How  in  the 
world  can  we  continue  to  finance  this 
kind  of  building  program,  even  as  it 
is  needed  to  house  the  membership  and 
to  cope  with  the  growth?" 

President  McKay  thought  a  moment, 
not  unlike  the  thinking  of  President 
Snow  in  St.  George,  depicted  by  the 
beautiful  picture  shown  us  last  evening 
at  the  bishops'  meeting,  The  Windows 
of  Heaven,  for  he  received  light  and 
understanding  from  heaven  and  pro- 
phetically uttered:  "We  have  been  wait- 
ing for  this  day  in  the  Church  for  a 
hundred  years,  this  tremendous  develop- 
ment in  our  membership.  Now  that 
day  has  come,  we  must  be  prepared  to 
take  care  of  the  membership  of  the 
Church;  if  we  are  faithful  and  obedient 
to  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  'God 
will  provide.'  " 

I  had  occasion  last  night  to  talk  to 
the  bishops,  for  which  I  was  grateful, 
upon  the  subject  of  tithing.    It  is  my 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


93 


humble  testimony  to  you  that  the  Lord 
has  set  the  pace,  and  we  cannot  look 
back.  Christ  said,  ".  .  .  No  man,  having 
put  his  hand  to  the  plough,  and  looking 
back,  is  fit  for  the  kingdom  of  God." 
(Luke  9:62.) 

Whatever  wealth  we  have  indi- 
vidually, or  as  a  Church,  should  be 
fully  dedicated  to  the  advancement  of 
the  work  of  the  Lord.  As  holders  of 
the  priesthood  we  know  the  Lord  has 
said,  "For  whoso  is  faithful  unto  the 
obtaining  these  two  priesthoods  of  which 
I  have  spoken,  and  the  magnifying  their 
calling,  are  sanctified  by  the  Spirit  unto 
the  renewing  of  their  bodies."  (D&C 
84:33.)  But  that  is  not  accomplished 
by  those  who  do  not  pay  their  tithes. 

Just  remember  that,  and  we  do  not 
become  the  sons  of  Moses  and  Aaron 
and  of  the  seed  of  Abraham  and  of  the 
Church  and  kingdom,  and  the  elect  of 
God  when  we  do  not  obey  his  com- 
mandments; and  when  through  any 
reasons  that  we  may  have  of  our  own 
we  seek  to  withhold  that  sacred  tenth 
of  our  increase  which  belongs  to  the 
Lord,  we  exclude  ourselves  from  the 
class  spoken  of  in  the  eighty-fourth  sec- 
tion of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and 
that  is  likewise  true  of  the  other  passage 
that  I  wanted  to  read  about,  "And  also 
all  they  who  receive  this  priesthood  re- 
ceive me,  saith  the  Lord;"  (Ibid.,  84:35.) 

But  I  say  unto  you  tonight,  my  breth- 
ren, in  all  seriousness  that  whosoever 
magnifies  these  two  priesthoods  gives  to 
the  Lord  a  full  accounting  for  his  tenth 
and  does  it  willingly.  They  do  it  be- 
cause they  love  to  serve  the  Lord  and 
keep  his  commandments.  We  are  not 
seeking  to  receive  tithes  from  anyone 
unless  they  are  paid  as  the  offerings  of 
Abel  were  made  originally  to  the  Lord, 
and  then  all  of  these  promises  are  ours. 
We  should  always  remember  our  obli- 
gation to  give  to  the  Lord  the  tenth 
which  is  his. 

"I,  the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do 
what  I  say;  but  when  ye  do  not  what  I 
say,  ye  have  no  promise."  (Ibid.,  82:10.) 

Therefore,  I  feel  confident  saying  that 
these  blessings  which  are  predicated 
upon  our  holding  these  two  great 
priesthoods  of  God  can  be  enjoyed  by 
us  when  we  account  to  our  bishops  for 
our  tithes  and  offerings.    There  must 


always  be  in  the  Lord's  storehouse  suffi- 
cient funds  for  the  President  of  the 
Church  to  carry  out  every  inspiration 
received  from  God,  and  it  all  takes 
funds. 

How  grateful  I  am  that  we  have 
President  McKay  living  so  close  to  God 
that  he  knows  where  these  funds  should 
be  placed  and  what  we  should  accom- 
plish with  them.  How  grateful  I  am 
not  only  for  the  building  program  but 
also  for  these  great  spiritual  men  whose 
work  in  the  building  of  our  chapels  is 
just  as  spiritual  as  it  is  temporal.  I  am 
grateful  for  the  short  wave  radio.  I  am 
grateful  for  everything  that  the  Presi- 
dent has  initiated  because  I  know  he  is  a 
prophet  of  God,  and  he  is  inspired  and 
acts  in  accordance  with  the  mind  and 
will  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

How  simple  it  is  for  you  and  me  as 
members  of  the  priesthood  to  see  that 
the  funds  are  accumulated,  by  which 
the  storehouse  of  the  Lord  will  always 
be  filled.  It  was  Alma  of  old  who  said, 
"For  behold,  this  life  is  the  time  for 
men  to  prepare  to  meet  God;  yea,  be- 
hold the  day  of  this  life  is  the  day  for 
men  to  perform  their  labors."  (Alma 
34:32.) 

I  know  with  all  my  heart  and  soul 
that  President  McKay's  stewardship  of 
the  funds  of  the  Church  has  been  in 
keeping  with  the  will  of  the  Lord,  and 
for  the  advancement  and  progress  of  his 
work  here  upon  this  earth.  It  will  be 
more  pleasing  to  the  Lord  when  he  sees 
fit  to  return  to  this  earth  to  have  the 
greatest  number  of  souls  saved  than  to 
look  at  any  financial  statement  of  the 
Church  that  could  possibly  exist. 

I  testify  to  you  that  the  work  now  go- 
ing forward  under  our  beloved  prophet 
is  in  accordance  with  the  wishes  of  our 
Lord  and  Master,  Jesus  Christ,  and  I 
pray  that  every  one  of  us  who  respects 
these  two  priesthoods  which  we  hold 
will  uphold  and  sustain  him  and  find 
reasons  why  we  should  pay  a  full  tith- 
ing. As  leaders  of  the  Church,  as  I  said 
last  night,  we  should  preach  tithing  and 
inspire  those  whom  we  preside  over  in 
our  wards  and  stakes  and  branches 
throughout  the  world  to  account  to  the 
Lord  for  that  which  belongs  to  him. 
I  pray  this  humbly  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  6  Second  Day 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


While  listening  to  the  profound  presen- 
tation of  the  correlation  work  in  this 
Church,  two  thoughts  came  to  my  mind 
which  I  wish  to  emphasize. 

First,  I  hope  you  all  visioned  clearly 
the  quorum  work  in  the  Church  and 
its  relation  to  what  Brother  Lee  pre- 
sented. There  are  quorums  in  the 
Church  independent,  in  a  way,  so  far 
as  spiritual  work  and  service  is  con- 
cerned, of  the  ecclesiastical  organization 
of  the  Church,  and  those  quorums  sup- 
ply a  spiritual  need  which  the  world 
seeks  to  obtain  in  secret  societies.  I 
think  they  make  it  more  effective,  how- 
ever, than  we  do  in  the  Church. 

One  day  Brother  [Hugh  J.]  Cannon 
and  I  were  on  the  vessel  leaving  the 
northern  part  of  Africa,  and  as  the  vessel 
pulled  out  into  the  ocean,  I  strolled 
along  the  deck.  I  noticed  a  stranger 
coming  toward  me.  I  could  see  by  his 
face  that  he  recognized  me  and  expected 
me  to  recognize  him.  For  the  life  of 
me  I  knew  I  had  never  seen  him  before, 
but  he  still  came  forward  with  that 
recognition  and  grasped  my  hand  with 
a  special  grip.  He  immediately  dropped 
my  hand,  and  said:  "Excuse  me."  Then 
I  knew.  I  was  wearing  a  stick  pin,  a 
gift  from  Sister  McKay,  upon  which 
was  engraved  a  star  and  crescent.  This 
man  recognized  the  sign,  gave  me  the 
grip,  but  I  could  not  return  it. 

We  do  not  object  to  the  world's  hold- 
ing those  special  convenient  means  of 
soul  intercourse.  It  is  friendly.  It  is 
helpful.  But  we  have  the  same  thing 
in  the  Church.  Every  male  member  in 
the  Church  from  twelve  years  up  to  112 
years,  as  one  man  celebrated  his  birth- 
day yesterday,  has  a  place  in  the 
quorum — twelve  deacons,  twenty-four 
teachers,  forty-eight  priests,  ninety-six 
elders;  and  high  priests  gathered  under 
the  ecclesiastical  group  in  your  stake. 
Where  we  do  not  have  that  number  we 
have  groups.  In  every  ward  we  have 
deacons,  teachers,  and  priests,  and  in  the 
stakes,  the  elders,  seventies,  and  high 
priests. 

Now,  each  quorum  has  a  duty  to  per- 
form. The  presidencies  have  a  responsi- 
bility to  sit  in  council  with  them  and  to 


teach  them  their  duty — the  quorum  work. 
Not  the  bishop,  not  the  stake  presidency 
— that  is  the  duty  of  the  quorum. 

And  so  I  saw,  while  Elder  Lee  was 
presenting  this  work  of  teaching  corre- 
lating work,  the  duty  of  the  individual 
members  of  each  quorum. 

I  was  pleased  the  other  day  to  receive 
an  old  minute  book.  I  thank  somebody 
for  sending  it  to  me  so  that  I  could 
look  through  it.  This  minute  book 
came  from  Ogden  where  we  used  to 
have  our  deacons'  quorum  presidency's 
meeting,  talking  there  in  a  neighbor's 
house,  then  deciding  that  it  was  our 
duty  to  chop  the  wood  for  the  widows 
of  the  ward.  My  point  is  that  the 
responsibility  of  the  entire  Church  rests 
upon  the  men  who  are  members  of 
these  quorums. 

I  should  just  like  to  say  a  word  now 
to  the  deacons,  the  teachers,  and  the 
priests  who  are  present  tonight.  Presi- 
dent Brown  was  right  when  he  said  the 
officers  of  the  Church  are  expecting 
you  young  men  to  carry  on  the  work 
that  is  presented  this  night.  There  are 
two  things  we  should  like  you  to  do: 
each  one  keep  his  faith  in  God,  and 
have  moral  courage — not  just  physical 
courage — moral  courage.  I  know  that 
some  of  you  are  just  like  a  man  who 
wrote  a  letter  the  other  day  saying,  "I 
have  lost  my  faith.  Can  you  help  me? 
What  is  there  hereafter?  I  am  afraid 
there  is  nothing  hereafter.  Can  you 
help  me?" 

Well,  I  know  for  what  he  is  yearning. 
He  wants  to  know  for  sure  that  death 
does  not  end  this  life,  and  that  the  soul 
within  will  live  eternally.  I  shall  just 
say  to  him,  and  to  you  young  men, 
whenever  you  are  doubting  the  exist- 
ence of  God  or  your  own  immortality, 
remember  what  the  Savior  said  to  those 
who  doubted  him:  "If  any  man  will  do 
his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine, 
whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I 
speak  of  myself."  (John  7:17;  Italics 
added.) 

Now,  that  is  the  keynote  to  every  man 
living.  Do  the  will  of  God.  If  any 
man  will  do  his  will  he  shall  know  for 
himself.   There  is  an  opportunity  every 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


95 


day  of  our  lives  to  do  that  will.  Each 
young  man  has  an  opportunity  some 
day  to  do  as  his  Father  has  asked  him 
to  do.  The  young  men  here  tonight 
have  heard  the  words  of  scripture,  and 
you  will  have  opportunities  tomorrow  to 
be  untrue  to  yourself  or  to  the  instruc- 
tions given  today.  God  will  prompt  you 
what  to  do.  You  say,  "Well,  I  do  not 
know  yet  that  he  lives."  Yes,  you  do! 
You  cannot  prove  that  he  does  not;  and 
if  you  doubt  it,  believe  those  men  who 
know,  if  you  have  confidence  in  them. 

You  are  studying  in  your  schools,  and 
you  have  probably  read  the  words  of 
one  of  the  essays  of  reputedly  the  wisest 
American  who  ever  lived,  who  said, 
"Oh,  my  brothers,  God  exists!  There  is 
a  soul  at  the  center  of  nature  ...  so 
that  none  of  us  can  wrong  the  Universe. 
There  is  guidance  for  each  of  us,  and 
by  lowly  listening  we  shall  hear  the 
right  word." 

When  that  word  comes  to  you — call 
it  conscience,  or,  if  you  are  in  the 
Church  and  doing  your  duty,  the  whis- 
perings of  the  Spirit,  because  you  are 
entitled  to  be  a  partaker  of  it — then  be 
true  to  that  whispering,  and  some  day 
you  will  know  for  yourself  that  you  are 
in  harmony  with  the  universe. 

Peter  was  quite  a  doubtful  man  as  he 
grew  to  manhood  before  he  knew  Christ, 
but  long  afterwards  he  was  praying  and 
said  that  we  have  been  made  partakers 
of  the  divine  nature.  (See  2  Peter  1:4.) 
He  knew  it,  and  you  will  know  it  some 
day  if  you  will  do  the  will,  be  true 
to  self. 

Now,  I  said  courage  is  a  second  need, 
not  physical  courage,  but  moral  courage. 
Let  me  illustrate:  James  L.  Gordon,  the 
author  of  The  Young  Man  and  His 
Problems  tells  the  story  of  a  young  boy 
who  decided  to  be  an  apprentice  in  one 
of  the  carpenters'  societies.  He  was  a 
bright  young  boy  in  his  teens,  and  the 
men  were  very  glad  to  admit  him.  They 
said,  "Come  on,  let's  drink  to  the 
entrance  of  this  young  man  to  our 
group!"  They  poured  out  the  beer, 
handed  him  the  glass. 

He  said,  "No,  thank  you,  I  do  not 
drink." 

"Well,"  said  a  gruff  old  member, 
"we're  not  going  to  have  any  teetotalers 
in  our  group." 


"Well,"  said  the  young  boy,  "you'll 
have  one  if  you  have  me." 

Another  seized  him  by  the  collar  and 
said,  "Young  man,  you'll  have  this  beer 
either  inside  or  outside!" 

"Very  well,  I  came  here  with  a  clean 
jacket  and  a  clear  conscience.  You  may 
soil  my  jacket  if  you  wish,  but  you  shall 
not  soil  my  character." 

He  had  been  trained — I  use  that 
word  properly — not  only  taught,  but 
trained  to  avoid  the  use  of  tobacco  and 
strong  drink,  intoxicating  liquor.  That 
is  what  I  mean  by  moral  courage.  The 
greatest  need  in  the  world  today  is  faith 
in  God  and  courage  to  do  his  will. 

God  help  us  as  young  men  to  prepare 
ourselves  for  the  responsibilities  await- 
ing us.  God  help  us  all  to  keep  our 
consciences  clear,  our  characters  sound, 
responsive  to  the  whisperings  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  which  is  real,  if  we  shall 
but  put  our  ears  and  listen  to  it  as  the 
wisest  American  suggested,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  are  grateful  to  the  Men's  Chorus 
for  the  inspiring  music  they  have 
rendered  this  evening.  We  pray  that 
the  Lord's  blessings  will  attend  them, 
and  that  they  will  feel  fully  repaid  for 
the  effort  they  have  put  forth  in  hours 
of  practice  and  in  traveling  here  for 
this  Priesthood  Meeting.  Thank  you, 
for  we  appreciate  having  you. 

The  Boise  Stake  Mormonaires  will 
sing  "Onward,  Ye  People."  That's  ap- 
propriate for  the  message  tonight. 

Elder  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  the 
speaker  on  the  Church  of  the  Air 
Broadcast  on  CBS  Radio  Sunday  morn- 
ing from  7:35  to  8:00  o'clock. 

As  thousands  leave  this  Priesthood 
Meeting  tonight  let  us  keep  in  mind 
the  admonition  that  has  constantly  been 
given  to  drive  carefully.  Let  us  have 
courtesy  in  the  city  and  on  the  high- 
ways. Cautiousness  and  alertness  are 
necessary  if  we  are  tO'  reduce  the  num- 
ber of  automobile  accidents.  Please 
obey  traffic  rules.  Good  manners  and 
patience  must  be  shown  by  drivers. 

"Onward,  Ye  People"  now  will  be 
sung  by  the  Boise  Stake  Mormonaires, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


96 

Sunday,  April  7 

and  the  benediction  of  this  Priesthood 
Meeting  will  be  offered  by  Brother  Reed 
M.  Broadbent,  President  of  the  Cache 
Stake. 


The  Boise  Stake  "Mormonaires"  sang 


Third  Day 

as  a  closing  number,  "Onward,  Ye  Peo- 
ple," following  which  the  closing  prayer 
was  offered  by  President  Reed  M. 
Broadbent. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10:00 
a.m.,  Sunday,  April  7. 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  Conference  reconvened  in  the 
Tabernacle  Sunday  morning,  April  7th, 
at  10  a.m. 

(The  Church  of  the  Air  program  was 
presented  at  7:35  a.m.  with  Elder 
Nathan  Eldon  Tanner  as  the  speaker. 
The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broad- 
cast was  presented  in  the  Tabernacle 
from  9:35  to  10:00  a.m.  See  pages  133  to 
139  for  a  full  report  of  these  broadcasts.) 

The  music  for  this  session  was  fur- 
nished by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  Rich- 
ard P.  Condie,  Conductor,  and  Frank 
W.  Asper,  Organist. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  who  pre- 
sided and  conducted  the  services,  made 
the  following  introductory  comments: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

To  all  present  this  morning  in  the 
Tabernacle,  Assembly  Hall,  and  the 
vast  television  and  radio  audience  we 
extend  a  hearty  welcome  to  the  sixth 
session  of  the  133rd  Annual  General 
Conference  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  under  the  di- 
rection of  Richard  P.  Condie,  with 
Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ,  will  open 
these  services  by  singing  "The  Morning 
Breaks,  The  Shadows  Flee." 

Following  the  singing  the  invocation 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  Casper  W. 
Merrill,  formerly  President  of  the  West 
Central  States  Mission. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  hymn, 
"The  Morning  Breaks,  The  Shadows 
Flee." 

Elder  Casper  W.  Merrill  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 
Casper  W.  Merrill. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing  "Shades  Of 
Eve  Are  Falling." 


Singing  by  the  Choir,  "Shades  Of  Eve 
Are  Falling." 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKay 


"And  even  so  I  have  sent  mine  ever- 
lasting covenant  into  the  world,  to  be  a 
light  to  the  world,  and  to  be  a  standard 
for  my  people,  .  .  .  and  to  be  a  mes- 
senger before  my  face  to  prepare  the 
way  before  me."  (D&C  45:9.) 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  was  scarcely  one  year  old 
when  that  declaration  was  made.  Joseph 
Smith,  to  whom  the  inspiration  came, 
was  but  twenty-five  years  of  age.  It  is 
a  marvelous  declaration,  great  in  its 
pretention,  comprehensive  in  its  scope — 


"Mine  everlasting  covenant  [the  gospel] 
is  sent  into  the  world,  to  be  a  light  unto 
the  world." 

On  Bedloe  Island,  at  the  entrance  of 
New  York  Harbor,  there  stands  a  Statue 
of  Liberty,  a  light  to  the  nations.  What 
it  has  meant  to  thousands  and  hundreds 
of  thousands  of  the  downtrodden  of 
Europe  has  been  most  graphically  ex- 
pressed by  Israel  Zangwill  in  that 
impressive  production  The  Melting  Pot, 
from  which  I  quote  (David,  the  immi- 
grant Jew,  is  speaking): 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


97 


"When  I  look  at  our  Statue  of  Lib- 
erty, I  just  seem  to  hear  the  voice  of 
America:  'Come  unto  me  all  ye  who  are 
weary  and  heavy-laden,  and  I  will  give 
you  rest — rest.'  " 

What  that  Statue  of  Liberty  has  sym- 
bolized to  the  oppressed  and  down- 
trodden of  Europe,  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  is  to  the  world. 

The  restored  gospel,  the  Church,  has 
reared  an  ensign  to  the  nations,  and 
with  words  as  comprehensive  as  those 
I  have  read  in  the  revelation,  invites  the 
world  to  peace,  to  rest,  to  contentment. 

And  what  does  that  ensign  offer  to 
the  nations? 

Forty-three  years  ago,  Elder  Stephen 
L  Richards,  speaking  from  this  pulpit, 
answered  that  question  as  follows: 
"There  are  provided  within  the  Church 
agencies  and  facilities  which  meet  every 
requirement  of  social  life.  Our  wards, 
to  my  thinking,  constitute  the  most  ad- 
vantageous social  units  that  have  ever 
been  devised  or  suggested  in  the  history 
of  society.  There  are  presented  within  the 
organizations  of  the  wards  opportunities 
for  every  person  to  receive  legitimate 
training  in  society,  proper  social  inter- 
course, and  the  cultivation  of  all  the 
desirable  traits  of  character  that  go  to 
make  up  good  men  and  good  women." 
(Annual  Conference,  April  6,  1920.) 

Sitting  in  the  audience  on  that  occa- 
sion was  a  statesman  who  had  won 
national  and  international  eminence, 
not  only  as  a  great  leader  in  the  political 
world,  but  also  as  a  speaker  and  writer 
on  religious  topics.  He  was  William 
Jennings  Bryan,  who  only  a  few  months 
before  had  written  an  article  for  a 
current  magazine  entitled  "In  the 
World,  of  the  World,  and  for  the 
World,"  wherein  he  outlined  a  number 
of  ways  in  which  he  thought  the  church 
could  make  the  world  a  better  place 
in  which  to  live.  "My  suggestion, 
therefore,"  I  read  from  his  article,  "is 
that  an  effort  should  be  made  to  set 
up  a  Christian  standard  for  Christian 
communities,  and  to  create  an  environ- 
ment that  will  be  helpful  to  the  Church 
and  the  spiritual  things  for  which  the 
Church  stands." 

Such  an  organization  is  the  restored 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  functioning  ef- 
fectually, as  the  Apostle  Paul  says,  "For 


the  perfecting  of  the  saints,  for  the  work 
of  the  ministry,  for  the  edifying  of  the 
body  of  Christ: 

"Till  we  all  come  in  the  unity  of  the 
faith,  and  of  the  knowledge  of  the  Son 
of  God,  unto  a  perfect  man,  [even] 
unto  the  measure  of  the  stature  of  the 
fulness  of  Christ:  .  .  ."  (Eph.  4:12-13.) 

I  invite  you  today  to  have  in  mind 
the  various  organizations  of  the  Church: 
first,  the  priesthood  quorums;  second, 
the  auxiliaries;  third,  educational  oppor 
tunities;  fourth,  judicial  phases  of  the 
Church;  and  fifth,  the  ecclesiastical 
groups.  To  elaborate  on  each  one  would 
occupy  more  time  than  I  can  give,  but 
we  can  just  glimpse  it. 

Consider  the  priesthood  of  the 
Church.  Picture  therein  the  men  and 
boys  organized  in  working  sections  or 
groups,  from  the  father  ninety  years 
old,  down  to  the  boy  twelve  years  of 
age.  In  these  groups  you  find  exempli- 
fied all  that  human  society  seeks  in 
social  groups  and  in  societies.  There  is 
opportunity  in  these  quorum  groups  for 
fellowship,  brotherhood,  and  organized 
service.  No  man  who  is  worthy  of  that 
fellowship  can  be  kept  out  from  it — 
not  one! 

Those  who  are  active  are  working  in 
an  organized  way  for  the  betterment 
of  one  another,  for  the  personal  welfare 
of  the  membership  and  for  the  good  of 
society  as  a  whole.  If  we  considered  no 
further  than  the  quorums,  is  not  that  a 
sublime  picture,  where  men  and  boys 
may  congregate,  associate,  affiliate  in 
service  for  humanity,  in  which  every 
man  considers  everyone  a  brother?  In 
that  quorum  the  doctor  sits  by  the  side 
of  a  carpenter,  each  interested  in  the 
most  ennobling  of  aspirations — worship 
of  God  and  helpful  service  to  human- 
ity! There  is  the  essence  of  priesthood 
work  in  the  Church;  and,  in  the 
achievement  of  the  purpose,  every  act 
and  influence  should  be  performed  or 
wielded  only  "by  persuasion,  by  long- 
suffering,  by  gentleness  and  meekness, 
and  by  love  unfeigned;  .  .  ."  The  words 
of  the  Prophet!  (D&C  121:41.) 

In  addition  to  quorums,  there  are 
Young  Men's  and  Young  Women's 
Mutual  Improvement  Associations,  hav- 
ing charge  of  the  recreation  for  the 
young,  guiding  the  leisure  hours  of  the 


98 

Sunday,  April  7 

youth  as  emphasized  by  Mr.  William 
Jennings  Bryan — one  of  the  great  prob- 
lems facing  civilization  todayl  In  these 
groups  you  have  an  organization  of 
young  men  and  young  women,  directing 
in  music,  in  art,  in  debating,  in  drama, 
as  well  as  in  other  uplifting  activities 
of  community  life. 

All  quorums  and  groups  are  in  them- 
selves educational  factors.  It  is  sur- 
prising how  many  officers  and  teachers 
are  engaged  in  the  teaching  and  direct- 
ing of  youth  just  in  quorums  and 
auxiliary  organizations. 

Let  us  take  one  stake  for  example:  I 
refer  now  to  notes  taken  on  a  visit  made 
in  1950  here  in  Salt  Lake  City.  Among 
the  groups  in  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood of  that  stake  were  804  men  serving 
without  one  penny  of  compensation  for 
the  betterment  of  society  every  week, 
and  some  of  them  every  day. 

If  the  high  council  and  members  of 
the  bishoprics  in  that  stake  who  are 
working  with  young  boys  between  the 
ages  of  twelve  and  twenty-one  be  in- 
cluded, there  were  a  total  of  1,022  men. 

The  number  of  officers  and  teachers 
in  the  auxiliaries  in  the  twelve  wards 
of  that  stake  was  1,950,  so  adding  this 
number  to  the  1,022,  we  have  a  total  of 
2,972,  or  approximately  3,000  men  and 
women  teachers. 

In  addition,  there  were  missionaries 
laboring  under  the  direction  of  the  stake 
presidency.  In  this  one  stake,  they  had 
held  2,715  meetings  in  homes  in  this 
city.  They  had  baptized,  since  the 
first  of  the  year,  106  converts  and  ten 
children  who  had  gone  beyond  the  age 
of  eight  years. 

The  Church  progresses  only  as  fast 
as  these  groups  work  in  perfect  harmony. 

In  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  we 
read:  "It  is  the  duty  of  the  [priesthood] 
to  watch  over  the  Church  always,  to 
be  with  and  strengthen  them."  (See 
ibid.,  20:53.)  This  is  a  laymen's  Church. 

And  what  a  message  the  Church  has 
for  this  distracted  world!  "Its  appeal," 
as  Kent  says  of  true  Christianity,  "is 
universal— to  the  rich  and  the  poor,  the 
strong  and  the  weak,  the  learned  and 
the  unlearned.  It  proclaims  God  to  be 
not  only  the  one  Supreme  Ruler  of  the 
Universe,  but  the  Father  of  each  indi- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

vidual,  a  God  of  justice,  yet  a  God  of 
love,  constantly  watching  over  and  guid- 
ing even  the  humblest  of  His  children." 

The  Church,  with  its  complete  organ- 
ization, offers  service  and  inspiration  to 
all.  It  is  "pre-eminently  a  social  re- 
ligion." In  quorums  and  auxiliaries  it 
"aims  by  training  the  individual  con- 
science and  will  to  establish  a  closely 
knit,  world-wide  fraternity."  It  is  in  no 
sense  ascetic.  Instead  of  taking  men  out 
of  the  world,  it  seeks  to  develop  perfect, 
Godlike  men  in  the  midst  of  society, 
and  through  them  to  solve  the  problems 
of  society. 

There  is  not  a  principle  which  is 
taught  by  the  Savior  of  men  but  is 
applicable  to  the  growth,  development, 
and  happiness  of  mankind.  Every  one 
of  his  teachings  seems  to  touch  the  true 
philosophy  of  living.  I  accept  them 
wholeheartedly.  I  like  to  study  them. 
I  like  to  teach  them.  It  is  a  joy  to  try 
to  live  them.  Every  phase  of  the  re- 
stored Church  is  applicable  to  the  wel- 
fare of  the  human  family. 

Twelve  thousand  missionaries  and 
more,  each  paying  individually  or  with 
the  aid  of  parents  his  or  her  own  ex- 
penses, are  declaring  to  a  troubled  world 
that  the  message  heralded  at  the  birth 
of  Jesus,  "Peace  on  earth,  good  will  to- 
ward men,"  (see  Luke  2:14)  may  be- 
come a  reality  by  compliance  to  the 
principles  of  the  gospel. 

As  the  Savior  said  to  the  eleven  disci- 
ples, and  to  all  whom  they  appointed, 
so  he  says  to  his  authorized  servants 
today:  "Go  ye  therefore  and  make 
disciples  of  all  nations,  teaching  them 
to  observe  all  things  whatsoever  I  have 
commanded."  (See  Matt.  28:19-20.) 

Where,  however,  each  missionary  of 
old  could  speak  only  to  one  person,  the 
representatives  of  Christ  today  can  speak 
to  millions.  A  sentence  uttered  in  an 
ordinary  tone  of  voice  can  encircle  the 
globe  in  less  than  a  minute.  Daily,  na- 
tions are  becoming  more  closely  united. 
The  interest  and  destiny  of  each  one 
becomes  more  closely  the  interest  and 
destiny  of  all. 

In  the  ecclesiastical  groupings,  there 
is  opportunity  for  social  welfare  such  as 
cannot  be  found  in  any  other  organiza- 
tion in  the  world.  Thus  does  the  Savior 


ELDER  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 


99 


and  his  Church  become  my  inspiration, 
my  ideal  in  life.  I  think  it  is  the  one 
great  thing  for  which  man  should  strive. 
It  presents  the  most  efficient  methods 
for  human  service,  social  uplift,  and 
progressive  steps  toward  universal  peace 
and  brotherhood;  and  in  its  idea  of  sal- 
vation it  comprehends  the  whole  of  the 
human  family. 

May  he  bless  the  priesthood  through- 
out the  Church,  the  auxiliary  associa- 
tions, and  all  men  and  women  who  seek 
to  instil  into  the  hearts  of  men  the  re- 
demptive power  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son 
of  the  Living  God.  May  all  utilizing  the 
organization  of  the  Church  continue 
more  zealously  "For  the  perfecting  of  the 
saints,  for  the  work  of  the  ministry,  for 
the  edifying  of  the  body  of  Christ: 

"Till  we  all  come  in  the  unity  of  the 
faith,  and  of  the  knowledge  of  the  Son 
of  God,  unto  a  perfect  man,  [even]  unto 
the  measure  of  the  stature  of  the  fulness 
of  Christ:  .  .  ."  (Eph.  4:12-13.) 

God  bless  and  prosper  the  Church  as 
it  bears  witness  to  the  reality  of  the 
personality  of  Deity  and  to  the  fact 
that  God  has  again  revealed  himself  to 
man  and  established  a  means  whereby 


ELDER  NATHAN 

Of  the  Council  of 

We  have  just  listened  to  a  Prophet 
of  God. 

As  I  stand  before  this  great  taber- 
nacle assembly  and  the  vast  radio  and 
television  audience  listening  in,  I  hum- 
bly pray  that  the  spirit  and  blessings  of 
the  Lord  will  attend  us  as  we  reason 
together. 

It  is  my  hope  that  I  might  answer 
one  or  two  questions  which  people  in 
the  world  are  asking  about  our  beliefs 
and  teachings,  such  as: 

Are  you  Christians  or  do  you  believe 
in  Christ? 

Do  you  believe  and  accept  the  Bible 
to  be  the  word  of  God? 

How  do  the  teachings  of  your  church 
differ  from  ours? 

I  shall  endeavor  to  answer  these  ques- 
tions briefly  by  quoting  from  and  deal- 
ing with  some  of  our  Articles  of  Faith: 


spirituality,  brotherhood,  and  universal 
peace  may  be  fostered  among  the  chil- 
dren of  men. 

The  Lord  help  us  to  be  able  to  prove 
to  the  world  that  the  restored  gospel  is 
just  what  the  world  today  is  longing 
for;  and  when  they  see  it,  may  they 
know,  as  you  know  and  as  I  know,  that 
the  everlasting  gospel  is  a  light  to  the 
world.  May  it  ever  be  a  light  to  the 
nations,  a  guiding  solution  of  all  the 
world  problems,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  favor 
us  with  "Listen  To  The  Lambs." 

Following  the  singing  Elder  Nathan 
Eldon  Tanner  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  will  speak  to  us. 


The  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Listen 
To  The  Lambs." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  Elder  Nathan 
Eldon  Tanner  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 


ELDON  TANNER 

the  Twelve  Apostles 

First,  "We  believe  in  God,  the  Eternal 
Father,  and  in  His  Son,  Jesus  Christ, 
and  in  the  Holy  Ghost."  "We  believe 
that  through  the  Atonement  of  Christ, 
all  mankind  may  be  saved,  (and  that 
they  may  gain  eternal  life  or  exaltation) 
by  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances 
of  the  Gospel."  "We  believe  that  the 
first  principles  and  ordinances  of  the 
Gospel  are:  first,  Faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ;  second,  Repentance;  third,  Bap- 
tism by  immersion  for  the  remission  of 
sins;  fourth,  Laying  on  of  hands  for  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost."  Also,  "We  be- 
lieve all  that  God  has  revealed,  all  that 
He  does  now  reveal,  and  we  believe  that 
He  will  yet  reveal  many  great  and  im- 
portant things  pertaining  to  the  King- 
dom of  God." 

Though  we  are  commonly  called  Mor- 
mons, I  should  like  to  emphasize  that 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  7 

this  is  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  of  which  Christ  is  the 
chief  cornerstone. 

Referring  to  our  belief  in  the  King 
James  translation  of  the  Bible,  we  be- 
lieve that  the  Gospels  of  the  New  Testa- 
ment contain  the  life  history  of  Jesus 
the  Christ  who  had  a  real  personality — 
a  man — part  mortal,  part  divine — who 
was  born  as  ordinary  mortals  are  born 
and  moved  about  on  the  earth  as  mortal 
man  moves,  but  who  had  certain  super- 
mortal  experiences,  who  mingled  with 
his  fellow  mortals,  and  who  lived  and 
died  as  they  did.  These  Gospels  of  the 
Bible  contain  the  record  of  that  man 
who  is  literally  the  Son  of  God. 

Some  cannot  accept  Jesus  as  this  kind 
of  person,  but  contend  that — "he  is  a 
half  mythical  person  who  may  have 
had  an  actual  existence  with  some  life 
experiences,  but  not  those  recorded  in 
the  Gospels  and  who  claim  that  these 
experiences  are  myths  in  their  miracu- 
lous elements,  and  that  around  these 
myths  is  a  number  of  ethical  principles, 
but  not  necessarily  taught  by  him,  but 
partly  so,  perhaps  with  spurious  addi- 
tions made  by  his  followers  in  the  earlier 
decades  following  his  death."  (J.  Reu- 
ben Clark,  Jr.) 

We  believe  that  Jesus  was  a  real 
person  and  that  those  who  appraise 
him  as  being  half  mythical  and  refuse 
to  accept  him  literally  as  the  Son  of 
God  or  who  portray  Christ  as  a  great 
philosopher,  as  the  founder  of  a  pro- 
found code  of  ethics,  but  deny  him  the 
divine  parentage  and  sonship  of  God, 
drag  Christianity  down  to  the  level  of 
paganism  and  completely  wipe  out  the 
true  God  and  his  plan  of  redemption 
for  his  children.  They  are  actually  try- 
ing to  destroy  him  as  Jesus  the  Christ 
and,  therefore,  are  guilty  of  his  re- 
crucifixion.  We  believe  that  he  actually 
did  the  work  and  taught  the  doctrines 
that  are  recorded  in  the  Gospels;  that 
he  was,  in  fact,  Christ  the  Son  of  God 
the  Eternal  Father  and  that  the  account 
of  his  conception,  birth,  life,  death,  and 
resurrection  are  all  as  factual  as  any  in 
all  history. 

We  believe  as  recorded  in  Matthew 
that  ".  .  .  Jesus  went  about  all  Galilee, 
teaching  in  their  synagogues,  and 
preaching  the  gospel  of  the  kingdom, 


Third  Day 

and  healing  all  manner  of  sickness  and 
all  manner  of  disease  among  the  peo- 
ple." (Matt.  4:23.) 

We  believe  with  John  that  ".  .  .  God 
so  loved  the  world,  that  he  gave  his 
only  begotten  Son,  that  whosover  be- 
lieveth  in  him  should  not  perish,  but 
have  everlasting  life."  (John  3:16.)  And, 
as  he  himself  said,  "I  am  the  way,  the 
truth,  and  the  life:  no  man  cometh  unto 
the  Father,  but  by  me."  (Ibid.,  14:6.) 
And  again  through  his  Prophet,  ".  .  . 
verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  he  that 
receiveth  my  gospel  receiveth  me;  and  he 
that  receiveth  not  my  gospel  receiveth 
not  me."  (D&C  39:5.)  We  believe  as 
Paul  said,  "...  I  am  not  ashamed  of  the 
gospel  of  Christ:  for  it  is  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation  to  every  one  that 
believeth";  (Rom.  1:16.) 

The  power  of  God  unto  salvation  is 
not  just  a  moral  code  of  living  based 
on  attributes  of  the  Savior,  but  it  is  the 
means  essential  to  salvation.  We  believe 
that  though  Christ  was  so  brutally  cru- 
cified, he  willingly  gave  his  life  for  you 
and  me  that  we  might  be  raised  from 
the  dead  and  go  back  into  the  presence 
of  our  Father  in  heaven  and  be  judged 
according  to  our  deeds;  that  he  was 
literally  resurrected;  that  his  body  and 
spirit  were  reunited.  This  is  estab- 
lished by  the  testimony  of  those  who 
actually  saw  him  and  talked  to  him,  not 
by  one  or  two,  but  by  many.  As  Mary 
Magdalene  stood  weeping  at  the  tomb 
he  comforted  her;  and  as  the  ten  apos- 
tles stood  discussing  the  fact  that  the 
Resurrected  Christ  had  appeared  to 
some  of  them,  ".  .  .  Jesus  himself  stood 
in  the  midst  of  them,  and  saith  unto 
them,  Peace  be  unto  you. 

"But  they  were  terrified  and  af- 
frighted, and  supposed  that  they  had 
seen  a  spirit. 

"And  he  said  unto  them,  Why  are 
you  troubled?  and  why  do  thoughts 
arise  in  your  hearts? 

"Behold  my  hands  and  my  feet,  that 
it  is  I  myself:  handle  me,  and  see;  for 
a  spirit  hath  not  flesh  and  bones,  as 
ye  see  me  have."  (Luke  24:36-39.) 

Thomas,  who  was  not  present  at  this 
time,  refused  to  believe  that  Christ  had 
been  resurrected  and  had  appeared  to 
the  ten.  He  said,  ".  .  .  Except  I  shall  see 
in  his  hands  the  print  of  the  nails,  .  .  . 


ELDER  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 


101 


and  thrust  my  hand  into  his  side,  I  will 
not  believe."  One  week  later,  however, 
Jesus  appeared  to  the  apostles  when 
Thomas  was  present  and  said,  ".  .  . 
Thomas,  Reach  hither  thy  finger,  and 
behold  my  hands:  and  reach  hither  thy 
hand,  and  thrust  it  into  my  side:  and  be 
not  faithless,  but  believing."  Thomas 
answered  and  said  unto  him,  "My  Lord 
and  my  God."  (John  20:25-28.) 

Also,  it  is  recorded  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  which  we  believe  to  be  the 
word  of  God,  that  after  his  resurrection 
he  appeared  to  the  people  on  the  Ameri- 
can continent.  When  he  appeared  to  these 
people,  they  heard  a  voice  which  said 
unto  them,  "Behold  my  Beloved  Son,  in 
whom  I  am  well  pleased,  in  whom  I 
have  glorified  my  name — hear  ye  him. 

".  .  .  and  behold,  they  saw  a  Man 
descending  out  of  heaven;  and  he  was 
clothed  in  a  white  robe;  and  he  came 
down  and  stood  in  the  midst  of  them; . . . 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  he  stretched 
forth  his  hand  and  spake  unto  the 
people,  saying: 

"Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  whom  the 
prophets  testified  shall  come  into  the 
world."  (3  Nephi  11:7-10.)  He  taught 
the  people,  took  little  children  on  his 
knees,  and  blessed  them  and  rejoiced 
and  wept  with  them.  This  is  the  Christ 
in  whom  we  believe. 

We  have  another  beautiful  testimony 
which  has  been  referred  to  several  times 
during  this  conference  of  the  reality  of 
God,  the  Father,  and  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ  as  told  by  a  young  boy,  Joseph 
Smith,  not  yet  fifteen  years  of  age  who 
lived  on  the  American  continent  just  a 
little  over  a  hundred  years  ago  and 
later  became  God's  prophet  here  in  this 
last  dispensation.  There  was  a  great 
religious  revival  going  on  where  he 
lived,  with  each  church  vigorously 
proselyting  for  members.  I  shall  give 
you  his  testimony  in  his  own  words  by 
quoting  therefrom: 

"While  I  was  laboring  under  the  ex- 
treme difficulties  caused  by  the  contests 
of  these  parties  of  religionists,  I  was  one 
day  reading  the  Epistle  of  James,  first 
chapter  and  fifth  verse,  which  reads: 
If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask 
of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men  liberally, 


and  upbraideth  not;  and  it  shall  be 
given  him. 

"Never  did  any  passage  of  scripture 
come  with  more  power  to  the  heart  of 
man  than  this  did  at  this  time  to 
mine.  .  .  . 

"At  length  I  came  to  the  conclusion 
that  I  must  either  remain  in  darkness 
and  confusion,  or  else  I  must  do  as 
James  directs,  that  is,  ask  of  God.  .  .  . 

"So,  in  accordance  with  this,  my  de- 
termination to  ask  of  God,  I  retired  to 
the  woods  to  make  the  attempt.  .  .  . 

"I  kneeled  down  and  began  to  offer 
up  the  desire  of  my  heart  to  God.  .  .  . 
Thick  darkness  gathered  around  me, 
and  it  seemed  to  me  for  a  time  as  if  I 
were  doomed  to  sudden  destruction. 

"But,  exerting  all  my  powers  to  call 
upon  God  to  deliver  me  ...  I  saw  a 
pillar  of  light  exactly  over  my  head, 
above  the  brightness  of  the  sun,  which 
descended  gradually  until  it  fell  up- 
on me. 

".  .  .  When  the  light  rested  upon  me 
I  saw  two  Personages,  whose  brightness 
and  glory  defy  all  description,  standing 
above  me  in  the  air.  One  of  them  spake 
unto  me,  calling  me  by  name  and  said, 
pointing  to  the  other — This  is  My  Be- 
loved Son.  Hear  Him! 

".  .  .  No  sooner,  therefore,  did  I  get 
possession  of  myself,  so  as  to  be  able 
to  speak,  than  I  asked  the  Personages 
who  stood  above  me  in  the  light,  which 
of  all  the  sects  was  right — and  which 
I  should  join. 

"I  was  answered  that  I  must  join  none 
of  them,  for  they  were  all  wrong;  and 
the  Personage  who  addressed  me  said  .  .  . 
'they  draw  near  to  me  with  their  lips, 
but  their  hearts  are  far  from  me,  they 
teach  for  doctrines  the  commandments 
of  men,  having  a  form  of  Godliness, 
but  they  deny  the  power  thereof.' " 
(Joseph  Smith  2:11-19.) 

Though  this  young  boy  had  gone  into 
the  grove  to  ask  God  which  church  he 
should  join,  he  came  away  with  a 
definite  knowledge  and  testimony  that 
God  and  Jesus  Christ  are  in  reality 
Living  Beings  who  had  heard  his 
prayers  and  appeared  to  and  instructed 
him.  As  he  told  his  experience  to  the 
people  in  the  community,  it  seemed 
that  though  he  was  but  an  obscure  boy 


102 

Sunday,  April  7 

with  no  standing  in  the  community,  the 
people  and  men  of  high  standing  took 
notice  of  him  and  excited  the  public 
mind  against  him  until  all  sects  united 
to  persecute  him.  However,  he  main- 
tained throughout  his  life,  to  his  dying 
day,  that  he  had  seen  a  vision  and  that 
he  could  not  deny  it  because  by  so  doing 
he  would  offend  God  and  come  under 
condemnation. 

Two  or  three  years  ago  while  travel- 
ing with  Lord  Rowallen,  Chief  Scout  of 
the  British  Commonwealth,  I  was 
thrilled  with  his  comment  as  he  led  a 
group  of  scouters  in  the  Scout  Promise. 
As  he  repeated  "On  my  honor  I  promise 
to  do  my  duty  to  God"  he  paused  and 
said,  "As  I  make  this  promise  I  think  of 
a  God  who  can  and  does  hear  and  an- 
swer prayers,  who  is  interested  in  what 
we  are  doing  and  who  will  guide  us 
and  bless  us  according  to  our  needs 
and  our  faith."  And  then  he  made  this 
significant  statement,  "If  any  of  you 
cannot  believe  in  such  a  God,  you  can 
serve  better  some  place  else." 

What  a  glorious  feeling  of  satisfaction 
and  security  it  is  to  know  that  God  and 
Jesus  Christ  actually  live,  that  Christ 
is  the  real  genuine  person  portrayed  in 
the  Bible  and  in  modern  scripture,  who 
lived  among  and  taught  the  people  and 
blessed  the  children  and  the  sick,  before 
and  after  his  crucifixion  and  resurrec- 
tion, and  that  he  was  interested  in  their 
welfare  as  he  traveled  from  place  to 
place!  Also,  what  a  great  strength  it  is 
to  our  children  to  know  that  we  know 
that  he  lives,  and  to  know  that  God  will 
give  liberally  to  each  and  all  who  prop- 
erly come  to  him.  "But  let  him  ask  in 
faith,  nothing  wavering.  For  he  that 
wavereth  is  like  a  wave  of  the  sea  driven 
with  the  wind  and  tossed."  (James  1:6.) 
His  great  commitment  to  us  is  "I,  the 
Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do  what  I 
say;  but  when  ye  do  not  what  I  say, 
ye  have  no  promise."  (D&C  82:10.) 

Why  would  anyone  prefer  to  think  of 
him  as  a  mythical  being  or  as  a  great 
philosopher,  but  deny  that  he  is  literally 
the  Son  of  God? 

Having  faith  in  Christ  is  essential  to 
our  salvation,  and  it  is  our  responsi- 
bility and  privilege  to  repent  of  our  sins 
and  follow  him.    Peter,  on  the  day  of 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

Pentecost  when  he  was  asked,  ".  .  .  Men 
and  brethren,  what  shall  we  do?"  an- 
swered, ".  .  .  Repent,  and  be  baptized 
every  one  of  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and 
ye  shall  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost."  (Acts  2:37-38.)  The  Savior 
himself  said,  "Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto 
thee,  Except  a  man  be  born  of  water 
and  of  the  Spirit,  he  cannot  enter  into 
the  kingdom  of  God."  (John  3:5.) 
Christ  himself  was  baptized  of  John 
saying,  ".  .  .  Suffer  it  to  be  so  now:  for 
thus  it  becometh  us  to  fulfil  all  right- 
eousness. .  .  ."  (Matt.  3:15.)  If  there 
should  be  any  uncertainty  in  the  minds 
of  any  who  profess  to  be  Christians  as 
to  the  importance  of  the  gospel  and  its 
ordinances,  they  should  be  able  to  get 
a  clear,  definite  answer  from  the  final 
charge  which  Jesus  gave  to  his  disciples 
in  his  last  words  of  admonition  to  them, 
"And  Jesus  came  and  spake  unto  them, 
saying,  All  power  is  given  unto  me  in 
heaven  and  in  earth. 

"Go  ye  therefore,  and  teach  all  na- 
tions, baptizing  them  in  the  name  of  the 
Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the 
Holy  Ghost: 

"Teaching  them  to  observe  all  things 
whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you:  and, 
lo,  I  am  with  you  alway,  even  unto  the 

end  of  the  world  "  (Ibid.,  28:18-20.) 

The  Savior  also  said,  ".  .  .  seek  ye  first 
the  kingdom  of  God,  and  his  righteous- 
ness; and  all  these  things  shall  be  added 
unto  you."  (Ibid.,  6:33.) 

In  order  to  make  effective  these 
ordinances  which  are  so  essential  ac- 
cording to  the  words  of  the  Savior  him- 
self, it  logically  follows  that  they  must 
be  administered  by  those  having  author- 
ity to  administer  the  ordinances.  We 
maintain  that  that  authority  is  on  the 
earth  today  as  predicted  by  Daniel 
wherein  he  said,  "And  in  the  days  of 
these  kings  shall  the  God  of  heaven 
set  up  a  kingdom,  which  shall  never 
be  destroyed:  and  the  kingdom  shall  not 
be  left  to  other  people,  but  it  shall 
break  in  pieces  and  consume  all  these 
kingdoms,  and  it  shall  stand  forever." 
(Daniel  2:44.)  Again,  after  the  Savior 
had  been  on  the  earth  and  completed 
his  work  here,  John  the  Revelator  made 
this  significant  statement,  "And  I  saw 


ELDER  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 


103 


another  angel  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven, 
having  the  everlasting  gospel  to  preach 
unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,  and 
to  every  nation,  and  kindred,  and 
tongue,  and  people, 

"Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God, 
and  give  glory  to  him;  for  the  hour  of  his 
judgment  is  come:  and  worship  him 
that  made  heaven,  and  earth,  and  the 
sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters." 
(Rev.  14:6-7.) 

I  wish  to  bear  my  testimony  to  all 
those  who  are  within  the  sound  of  my 
voice  this  day  that  that  angel  has 
flown  and  that  the  everlasting  gospel 
has  been  restored  and  that  his  Church 
has  been  re-established  upon  the  earth 
and  that  the  power  to  administer  these 
ordinances  has  been  restored  in  these 
the  latter  days  and  that  the  prophecy 
made  by  Daniel  is  being  realized  and 
the  one  by  John  has  been  fulfilled.  The 
power  of  the  priesthood,  which  is  the 
power  of  God  delegated  to  man  to  act 
in  his  name  and  officiate  in  the 
ordinances  of  the  gospel,  was  conferred 
upon  two  young  men,  Joseph  Smith  and 
Oliver  Cowdery,  by  those  ancient  apos- 
tles Peter,  James,  and  John.  The  heav- 
ens are  as  open  today  as  they  were  in  the 
days  of  Peter  and  James  and  John  and 
Paul  and  all  the  rest  of  the  old  apostles. 
God  still  answers  the  prayers  of  the 
righteous,  still  reveals  his  will  through 
a  prophet  to  the  established  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Yes,  as  Adam  and  Noah 
and  Abraham  and  Moses  had  been 
chosen  by  God  in  the  grand  council  in 
heaven  as  his  prophets  in  the  respective 
dispensations  in  which  they  lived,  so 
was  Joseph  Smith  chosen  in  these  the 
latter  days  and  called  of  God  as  his 
prophet,  seer,  and  revelator.  Instruc- 
tions and  authority  to  organize  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  was  given  to  him  by  Jesus  Christ, 
and  through  him  the  gospel  in  its  full- 
ness was  restored.  This  gospel  is  being 
preached  throughout  the  world  by  mis- 
sionaries and  members  of  the  Church 
who  wish  to  share  with  the  people 
throughout  the  world  this  glad  message 
of  the  restored  gospel.  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  believes 
in  and  has  the  same  organization  that 
existed  in  the  primitive  Church  as  is 
recorded,  "And  he  gave  some,  apostles; 


and  some,  prophets;  and  some,  evange- 
lists; and  some,  pastors  and  teachers; 

"For  the  perfecting  of  the  saints,  for 
the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  edify- 
ing of  the  body  of  Christ: 

"Till  we  all  come  in  the  unity  of  the 
faith,  and  of  the  knowledge  of  the  Son 
of  God,  unto  a  perfect  man,  unto  the 
measure  of  the  stature  of  the  fulness 
of  Christ: 

"That  we  henceforth  be  no  more 
children,  tossed  to  and  fro,  and  carried 
about  with  every  wind  of  doctrine,  by 
the  sleight  of  men,  and  cunning  crafti- 
ness, whereby  they  lie  in  wait  to  de- 
ceive"; (Eph.  4:11-14.) 

These  missionaries  are  preaching  the 
same  simple  truths  that  were  taught  by 
Christ  while  he  was  on  the  earth,  the 
first  and  great  commandment  being 
".  .  .  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God 
with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy 
soul,  and  with  all  thy  strength,  and  with 
all  thy  mind;  and  thy  neighbour  as 
thyself."  (Luke  10:27.)  These  mission- 
aries and  the  members  of  the  Church 
are  prepared  through  prayer  and  by  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  to  bear  testi- 
mony that  they  know  that  God  lives, 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  his 
Church  is  headed  by  a  prophet. 

Also,  that  the  essential  ".  .  .  principles 
and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  are:  first, 
Faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  second, 
Repentance;  third,  Baptism  by  immer- 
sion for  the  remission  of  sins;  and 
fourth,  Laying  on  of  hands  for  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost." 

We  believe  that  God  still  speaks  to 
his  people  on  the  earth  today  and  that 
the  Church  is  being  led  by  a  prophet 
of  God  through  whom  the  Lord  speaks. 

I  would  exhort  you,  as  did  Moroni  in 
the  days  of  old,  when  he  said:  "And 
when  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  I 
would  exhort  you  that  ye  would  ask 
God,  the  Eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of 
Christ,  if  these  things  are  not  true; 
and  if  ye  shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart, 
with  real  intent,  having  faith  in  Christ, 
he  will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  you, 
by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

"And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
ye  may  know  the  truth  of  all  things." 
(Moroni  10:4-5.) 

The  gospel  message  is  sweet;  it  is  a 
message  of  peace  and  goodwill;  it  is  the 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  7 

one  and  only  thing  that  will  bring  peace 
to  the  world;  it  offers  a  plan  of  life  and 
salvation  to  all  who  will  accept  it.  May 
the  Lord  cause  that  every  soul  seeking 
the  truth  shall  come  to  the  testimony 
that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
and  the  gospel  has  been  restored  in  its 
fulness,  and  that  Christ's  Church  is 
here  upon  the  earth  today  with  a 
prophet  at  its  head  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  who  has  just  addressed  us  is  Elder 


Third  Day 

Nathan  Eldon  Tanner  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve. 

Following  a  brief  organ  interlude,  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  Congregation, 
with  Richard  P.  Condie  conducting,  will 
sing  "Now  Let  Us  Rejoice." 


Singing  by  the  Choir  and  congrega- 
tion, "Now  Let  Us  Rejoice." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder 
Howard  W.  Hunter  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve. 


ELDER  HOWARD  W.  HUNTER 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


We  approach  the  season  of  the  year 
which  marks  the  anniversary  of  one  of 
the  most  significant  events  of  all  time. 
It  was  one  of  the  many  events  of  nearly 
two  thousand  years  ago  which  divides 
history  into  two  segments — that  which 
took  place  before  the  death  and  resur- 
rection of  the  Savior  and  the  happenings 
of  the  two  millenniums  since  that  time. 

Throughout  Christendom  this  coming 
week,  thoughts  will  turn  to  the  little 
walled  city  on  a  hill  in  what  was  once 
Palestine.  Jerusalem  has  been  known 
as  the  "City  of  Peace,"  yet  scarcely  a 
decade  in  its  history  has  gone  by  with- 
out wars  or  bloodshed.  Its  history  is 
one  of  conquest  and  change — the  Baby- 
lonians, the  Jews,  Greeks,  Romans, 
Arabs,  the  Crusaders,  the  Turks.  John 
the  Baptist  walked  its  streets;  great  kings 
and  rulers  of  Bible  fame  lived  in  this 
ancient  city. 

To  Christians  everywhere,  as  spring 
comes  again,  there  is  the  reminder  of 
the  one  who  came  to  earth  with  the  mes- 
sage of  peace,  yet  was  condemned  in 
Jerusalem  for  his  teachings,  convicted 
and  sentenced  to  die  by  crucifixion, 
what  Cicero  called  "the  most  cruel  and 
hideous  of  tortures."  After  execution 
of  judgment  and  death  on  the  cross, 
the  body  was  placed  in  a  tomb  prepared 
for  the  dead. 

Those  who  knew  him  best  did  not 
fully  realize  his  purpose  for  being  with 


them,  nor  did  they  understand  the 
testimony  of  the  ancient  prophets  that 
the  Master  would  give  his  life  and  be 
resurrected,  that  all  men  should  over- 
come death  and  the  grave  and  live  again. 

Repeatedly  Jesus  had  made  mention 
of  his  impending  death  and  resurrection 
and  on  one  occasion  said: 

"Therefore  doth  my  Father  love  me, 
because  I  lay  down  my  life,  that  I  may 
take  it  again. 

"No  man  taketh  it  from  me,  but  I  lay 
it  down  of  myself.  I  have  power  to  lay 
it  down,  and  I  have  power  to  take  it 
again.  This  commandment  have  I  re- 
ceived of  my  Father."  (John  10:17-18.) 

In  spite  of  his  teachings  there  was 
lack  of  understanding,  and  despair  fell 
upon  the  little  group  of  his  followers. 
Some  who  had  been  the  most  devoted 
had  forsaken  him  and  fled.  The  sun 
rose  and  set  on  Saturday,  the  Jewish 
sabbath,  and  in  the  early  hours  before 
the  dawn  on  that  first  Easter  Sunday, 
while  the  Roman  guard  was  keeping 
watch,  a  marvelous  event  took  place. 

"And,  behold,  there  was  a  great  earth- 
quake: for  the  angel  of  the  Lord  de- 
scended from  heaven,  and  came  and 
rolled  back  the  stone  from  the  door, 
and  sat  upon  it."  (Matt.  28:2.) 

In  the  darkness  of  the  early  morning 
Mary  Magdalene  and  the  other  devoted 
women,  the  last  to  leave  the  cross,  were 
the  first  to  reach  the  sepulchre,  bringing 


ELDER  HOWARD  W.  HUNTER 


105 


spices  and  ointment  for  the  body  of  the 
Master.  Here  they  saw  the  angel  and 
were  afraid,  but  he  said  to  them: 

".  .  .  Fear  not  ye:  for  I  know  that  ye 
seek  Jesus,  which  was  crucified. 

"He  is  not  here:  for  he  is  risen,  as 
he  said.  Come,  see  the  place  where 
the  Lord  lay. 

"And  go  quickly,  and  tell  his  disciples 
that  he  is  risen  from  the  dead;  .  .  ." 
(Ibid.,  28:5-7.) 

Many  questions  come  to  men  as  they 
travel  through  this  mortal  realm,  but 
the  one  of  greatest  concern  to  many  is 
this:  Is  it  true  we  will  be  resurrected 
and  live  in  a  future  life?  Man  in  his 
scientific  quest  can  only  trace  life  to 
the  moment  of  death,  beyond  this  his 
research  produces  no  tangible  evidence. 
Socrates,  who  lived  before  the  time  of 
Christ,  argued  that  the  soul  of  man  is 
immortal,  yet,  when  sentenced  to  death, 
his  statement  was  this: 

"The  hour  of  departure  has  arrived, 
and  we  go  our  ways,  I  to  die,  and  you 
to  live.  Which  is  better  God  only 
knows." 

Those  who  have  a  steadfast  faith  in  a 
Personal  God,  who  have  a  yearning  to 
keep  his  commandments  and  a  hope  for 
a  future  life,  will  carefully  and  meticu- 
lously examine  the  evidence  for  the 
resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ.  Those,  on 
the  other  hand,  who  lack  this  faith  and 
see  only  the  mechanical  laws  which  are 
the  subject  of  experimentation  and  proof 
will  either  reject  the  evidence  on  the 
grounds  that  it  lacks  positive  proof  or 
will  say  it  is  insufficient.  For  a  few 
moments  let  us  consider  the  claims  of 
those  who  have  attempted  to  refute  the 
evidence  of  the  resurrection  of  Christ. 

As  soon  as  the  guardsmen  at  the  tomb 
had  recovered  from  their  fright,  they 
reported  the  happenings  to  the  chief 
priests  who  were  Sadducees,  a  sect  which 
had  discredited  and  firmly  denied  the 
possibility  of  resurrection.  The  chief 
priests  paid  the  guards  a  large  sum  of 
money  to  say:  ".  .  .  His  disciples  came 
by  night,  and  stole  him  away  while  we 
slept."  (Ibid.,  28:13.) 

It  would  seem  incredible  to  believe 
that  all  of  the  soldiers  were  sleeping, 
knowing  they  could  be  put  to  death 
for  sleeping  at  their  post,  but  if  they 
had  been  sleeping  how  would  they  have 


known  it  was  the  disciples  who  had 
stolen  him  away?  The  facts  indicate  the 
hoax  was  not  on  the  part  of  the 
disciples  of  Christ  as  claimed,  but  on 
the  part  of  those  who  had  openly  de- 
nied, prior  to  this  time,  the  possibility 
of  resurrection  from  the  dead. 

There  are  some  who  claim  the  body 
might  have  been  stolen  by  the  gardener, 
the  Sanhedrin,  Mary  Magdalene,  Pi- 
late, the  Sadducees,  or  any  number  of 
other  persons.  Wouldn't  it  seem  rea- 
sonable to  assume  that  as  soon  as  the 
apostles  began  to  proclaim  that  Christ 
had  arisen  from  the  tomb,  or  when 
those  who  saw  him  after  the  resurrec- 
tion declared  this  fact,  that  the  persons 
who  had  taken  the  body  would  come 
forward  quickly  to  deny  the  resurrection 
by  producing  the  body  or  explaining 
why  it  was  taken?  No  such  denial  or 
explanation  was  ever  made. 

Another  theory  which  has  been  ad- 
vanced and  perhaps  the  weakest  of  all 
is  that  Jesus  did  not  die  on  the  cross 
but  fainted  or  lapsed  into  unconscious- 
ness. It  seems  absurd  to  think  that  a 
living  person  would  be  buried.  The 
very  day  of  the  resurrection  he  walked 
on  the  road  to  Emmaus.  Does  it  seem 
reasonable  that  one  with  pierced  feet 
and  the  wound  of  the  spear  in  his  side 
would  be  making  such  a  journey?  The 
facts  themselves  refute  such  a  theory. 

It  is  important  to  know  the  belief  of 
the  first  Christians  on  the  subject  of 
the  resurrection  of  Christ,  particularly 
those  living  at  the  time  of  his  death.  If 
we  turn  to  the  writings  of  Paul  as  docu- 
mentary evidence,  we  will  find  the  an- 
swer. Nearly  all  critical  scholars  admit 
the  genuineness  of  the  principle  epistles 
of  Paul.  He  said  to  the  Saints  at 
Corinth:  "For  I  delivered  unto  you  first 
of  all  that  which  I  also  received,  how 
that  Christ  died  for  our  sins  according 
to  the  scriptures; 

"And  that  he  was  buried,  and  that  he 
rose  again  the  third  day  according  to  the 
scriptures":  (1  Cor.  15:3-4.) 

Then  speaking  of  the  other  apostles 
he  said:  "Therefore  whether  it  were  I 
or  they,  so  we  preach,  and  so  ye  be- 
lieved." (Ibid.,  15:11.) 

Paul's  teachings  are  identical  with  the 
teachings  of  the  other  apostles.  We  are 
assured,  therefore,  that  the  resurrection 


106 

Sunday,  April  7 

of  Jesus  Christ  was  regarded  as  one  of 
the  foundation  doctrines  of  the  early 
church  and  was  taught  to  all  converts 
"first  of  all." 

One  of  the  best  authenticated  writings 
in  the  New  Testament  is  the  First  Gen- 
eral Epistle  of  Peter  in  which  he  con- 
firms the  statements  of  Paul.  We  can 
add  the  testimony  of  two  other  apostles, 
Matthew  and  John,  and  in  a  lesser 
degree,  Luke  and  Mark  gave  accumula- 
tive evidence. 

Some  critics  point  out  what  appears 
to  be  discrepancies  in  the  testimony  of 
some  of  these  witnesses.  Luke  and  John 
relate  the  presence  of  two  angels  at  the 
tomb  while  Matthew  and  Mark  mention 
only  one.  The  first  three  gospels  indi- 
cate the  angels  were  seen  by  the  women, 
but  according  to  John,  by  Mary  Magda- 
lene alone.  Luke  and  Matthew  state 
the  women  brought  the  news  that  the 
tomb  was  empty,  while  Mark  states 
"they  said  nothing  to  anyone  for  they 
were  afraid."  One  of  the  fundamental 
rules  of  evidence  is  that  the  disagree- 
ment of  the  witnesses  in  matters  of  de- 
tail does  not  invalidate  their  testimony 
as  to  the  principal  facts  to  which  they 
agree.  The  question  then  to  be  resolved 
is  whether  or  not  the  testimony  contains 
such  variance  in  the  material  facts  as 
to  discredit  the  main  issue. 

It  would  make  no  difference  if  there 
was  one  angel  or  two  angels  at  the 
tomb.  The  fact  that  he  was  arisen  would 
not  be  changed  by  whether  the  women 
did  or  didn't  bring  the  news  concerning 
the  resurrection  itself. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

The  testimony  of  those  who  saw  him 
as  a  living  person  after  his  death  has 
never  been  contradicted.  He  appeared 
at  least  ten  or  eleven  times:  to  Mary 
Magdalene  and  the  other  women  in  the 
garden,  to  the  two  disciples  on  the  road 
to  Emmaus,  to  Peter  at  Jerusalem,  to  the 
apostles  when  Thomas  was  absent  and 
again  when  he  was  present,  to  the  apos- 
tles at  the  Sea  of  Galilee,  and  on  a 
mountain  to  over  500  brethren  at  once, 
to  James  the  brother  of  the  Lord,  and 
to  the  apostles  at  the  time  of  the 
ascension. 

We  can  come  to  only  one  conclusion, 
the  resurrection  is  a  historical  fact 
amply  proved  by  authenticated  docu- 
mentary evidence  and  the  testimony  of 
competent  witnesses.  The  man-made 
theories  devised  to  discredit  are  without 
substantiation,  and  any  discrepancies  in 
the  narrative  are  too  slight  to  be  given 
weight. 

The  walled  city  still  stands  on  the 
hill,  silently  reminding  the  Christian 
world  of  the  reality  of  the  resurrection. 
I  bear  witness  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
the  resurrection  and  the  life,  and  he 
that  believeth  in  him,  though  he  were 
dead,  shall  live,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Howard  W.  Hunter  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Boyd 
K.  Packer,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  BOYD  K.  PACKER 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


In  1833  a  revelation  was  given  by  the 
Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  known 
as  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  given  as  a 
principle  with  a  promise.  This  prin- 
ciple has  not  been  neglected  by  the 
leaders  of  the  Church  nor  abandoned 
by  them.  It  has  been  reaffirmed  vigor- 
ously as  one  theme  of  this  conference, 
for  we  have  learned  that  however  much 
a  generation  of  people  learn  a  truth,  it 
must  be  rediscovered  by  each  succeed- 
ing generation. 


It  is  to  the  young  people  of  our  gen- 
eration that  I  speak.  Some  may  regard 
as  trivial  the  assignment  to  speak  to 
young  people.  I  consider  it  otherwise 
and  sense  the  meaning  of  an  appeal 
made  by  the  late  President  J.  Reuben 
Clark,  Jr.,  in  speaking  to  the  teachers 
of  the  Church.  "May  he,"  President 
Clark  said,  "give  you  entrance  to  the 
hearts  of  those  you  teach  and  then  make 
you  know  that  as  you  enter  there  you 
stand  in  holy  places." 


ELDER  BOYD  K.  PACKER 


107 


Some  young  people,  not  members  of 
the  Church,  may  not  be  acquainted 
with  the  revelation  known  as  the  Word 
of  Wisdom.  It  is  simply  this,  a  law  of 
temperance.  In  it  we  are  counseled  by 
the  Lord  to  refrain  from:  the  use  of 
alcoholic  beverages — any  of  them,  to- 
bacco in  any  form,  and  from  hot 
drinks — understood  by  the  Church  to 
mean  those  with  habit-forming  poten- 
tial, specifically  coffee  and  tea. 

Members  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  are  expected 
to  live  this  principle. 

The  Lord  has  directed  that  observance 
of  this  principle  is  a  condition  of  mem- 
bership for  one  seeking  baptism  into 
his  Church.  For  the  member  of  the 
Church,  compliance  with  this  law  is  a 
prerequisite  for  the  bestowal  of  the 
priesthood,  for  a  call  to  missionary  serv- 
ice, for  temple  endowments  or  temple 
marriage. 

You  who  are  young  members  of 
the  Church  full  well  know  that  pre- 
liminary to  such  a  call  you  will 
be  interviewed,  and  the  question  will 
be  put  to  you  directly,  "Do  you 
keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom?"  If  you 
must  confess  that  you  do  not,  and 
if  there  is  reasonable  doubt  that 
you  can  honor  a  commitment  to  live 
the  principle,  your  opportunity  may  be 
withheld  from  you. 

You  may  have  difficulty,  my  young 
friends,  understanding  why  the  Lord 
should  require  his  servants  to  hold  so 
stedfastly  to  this  rule,  particularly  when 
the  use  of  alcohol,  tobacco,  and  hot 
drinks  is  practised  so  commonly  in  the 
world,  and  when  we  seem  to  run  the 
risk  of  driving  many  fine  young  people 
from  activity  in  the  Church.  Some 
say  we  are  too  persistent  in  stressing 
this  principle — that  indeed  it  has  been 
overstressed. 

A  principle  with  a  promise  such 
as  this  could  hardly  be  overstressed. 
It  may  well  have  been  stressed  in 
a  negative  way,  emphasizing  only 
the  "Don't." 

A  father,  censuring  his  little  son  for 
some  mischief,  demanded  an  explana- 
tion from  the  boy.  "Why,"  he  said 
with  exasperation,  "did  you  do  such  a 
thing?"  The  little  lad  was  thoughtful 


for  a  moment,  then,  "If  I'd  had  a  'why,' 
Daddy,  I  wouldn't  have  done  it." 

It  isn't  always  easy  to  give  you  a 
"why"  for  everything.  But  we  owe  it 
to  you  of  the  coming  generation  to  do 
more  than  just  say,  "Don't!"  There 
are  several  "whys"  for  the  Word 
of  Wisdom. 

The  first  "why"  concerns  the  effect 
upon  your  body.  The  case  against 
tobacco  as  the  killer  in  lung  cancer, 
and  the  indictment  for  accident,  death, 
and  moral  mischief  returned  against 
alcohol  are  so  well  substantiated  that 
hardly  anyone  would  wish  to  act  as 
attorney  for  the  defense  when  these  two 
malefactors  are  brought  to  trial. 

The  Word  of  Wisdom  offers  protec- 
tion to  your  body.  Part  of  the  promise 
reads:  "And  all  saints  who  remember  to 
keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking  in 
obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall 
receive  health  in  their  navel  and  mar- 
row to  their  bones; 

"And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and 
shall  walk  and  not  faint."  (D&C 
89:18,  20.) 

But  the  greatest  loss  in  failing  to  ob- 
serve the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  not  what 
may  happen  to  your  lungs  or  to  your 
brain  or  to  your  co-ordination.  There  is 
another  "why"  much  more  important 
even  than  this. 

No  doubt  you  have  noticed  that  some, 
who  have  achieved  so-called  success, 
have  not  kept  the  Word  of  Wisdom;  for 
instance,  you  may  know  a  businessman 
who  provides  generously  for  his  family, 
and  you  know  that  he  does  not.  Or 
you  may  know  of  a  political  figure 
who  seems  to  command  the  vote  of  the 
people  in  spite  of  known  intemperance. 
You  could  hardly  escape  the  example 
of  the  movie  queen — fair  in  face  and 
figure — who  makes  no  effort  to  hide 
her  dissipation.  Or  the  athlete  who  has 
run  up  impressive  records,  yet  openly 
endorses  one  brand  or  another  of  these 
injurious  agents. 

He  seems  to  run  without  fainting, 
you  reason,  and  bewildered  you  may 
wonder  "Why?"  How  can  this  princi- 
ple be  so  intensely  important  when  so 
many  people — some  of  them  who  have 
been  taught  otherwise — abuse  the  prin- 
ciple and  yet  seem  immune  from 
any  penalties?    You,  my  young  friends, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


108 

Sunday,  April  7 

have  a  greater  calling  than  that  in  the 
business  world,  or  as  a  political  figure, 
or  as  an  athlete.  Your  opportunity  is 
not  so  much  in  what  you  will  con- 
tribute materially  but  in  the  influence 
that  you  may  have  spiritually. 

To  those  who  keep  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  the  promise  is  given  of  ".  .  . 
wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowl- 
edge, even  hidden  treasures;  .  .  ." 
(Ibid.,  89:19.)  Our  spiritual  senses  are 
more  delicately  balanced  than  any  of 
our  physical  senses.  Like  a  fine  radio 
receiver  with  a  sensitive  tuning  mech- 
anism, they  can  easily  be  thrown  off 
channel  or  even  jammed  by  corrosive 
influences  introduced  into  our  minds 
and  bodies. 

You,  my  young  friends,  can  be  sensi- 
tive to  inspiration  and  spiritual  guid- 
ance. To  do  this  you  need  the  wisdom 
and  treasures  of  knowledge — they  con- 
stitute a  spiritual  confirmation,  your 
testimony  of  the  truth.  To  have  this 
witness  fulfils  the  promise  of  the  Lord. 
To  be  denied  it  is  the  penalty. 

There  is  yet  another  "why" — perhaps 
the  most  important  of  all.  In  the  fourth 
verse  of  the  revelation  we  read:  "Be- 
hold, verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord  unto 
you:  In  consequence  of  evils  and  designs 
which  do  and  will  exist  in  the  hearts 
of  conspiring  men  in  the  last  days,  I 
have  warned  you,  and  forewarn  you,  by 
giving  unto  you  this  word  of  wisdom 
by  revelation—"  (Ibid.,  89:4.)  This  is  a 
solemn — even  frightening  warning.  But 
in  the  promise  we  are  offered  protection. 
To  understand,  we  turn  in  the  Old 
Testament  to  the  account  of  the  ten 
plagues  of  Egypt. 

Moses  and  Aaron  were  negotiating  for 
the  release  of  the  Israelites  from 
bondage.  Nine  plagues  were  called 
forth  upon  Egypt,  but  none  of  them 
softened  the  Pharaoh's  heart.  The  Lord 
said  then  unto  Moses:  ".  .  .  Yet  will  I 
bring  one  plague  more  upon  Pharaoh, 
and  upon  Egypt;  afterwards  he  will  let 
you  go  hence:  .  .  . 

"For  I  will  pass  through  the  land  of 
Egypt  this  night,  and  will  smite  all  the 
firstborn  in  the  land  of  Egypt,  .  .  .  and 
against  all  the  gods  of  Egypt  I  will 
execute  judgment:  I  am  the  Lord." 
(Ex.  11:1;  12:12.) 

Under  a  strange  requirement,  Israel 


Third  Day 

was  to  escape  this  judgment.  They 
were  instructed  to  take  a  lamb,  a  male 
of  the  first  year,  without  blemish.  It 
was  to  be  slain  and  prepared  as  a  feast. 
They  were  instructed  to  take  of  the 
blood  of  the  lamb  and  strike  it  upon 
the  doorposts  of  the  houses,  "And  the 
blood  shall  be  to  you  for  a  token  upon 
the  houses  where  ye  are:  and  when  I 
see  the  blood,  I  will  pass  over  you,  and 
the  plague  shall  not  be  upon  you  to 
destroy  you,  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  12:13.)  And  it 
is  recorded  that  the  plague  of  death  was 
visited  upon  Egypt  from  ".  .  .  the  first- 
born of  Pharaoh  that  sat  on  his  throne 
unto  the  firstborn  of  the  captive  that 
was  in  the  dungeon; . .  ."  (Ibid.,  12:29.) 
But  Israel,  because  of  the  blood  of  the 
lamb,  was  spared,  for  the  plague  of 
death  passed  over  them  and  did  not 
slay  them. 

Remarkable,  is  it  not,  that  in  addi- 
tion to  the  other  promises  offered  to 
those  who  observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
we  find  in  the  last  verses  of  the  revela- 
tion this  additional  promise:  "And  I, 
the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise,  that 
the  destroying  angel  shall  pass  by  them, 
as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay 
them.  .  .  ."  (D&C  89:21.) 

Can  you  understand  now,  my  young 
friends,  why  we  stress  so  strongly  this 
principle?  It  is  not,  certainly  not,  to 
drive  any  of  you  from  activity  in  the 
Church,  but  that  your  blessings  may 
be  full.  Some  have  said  of  you  who  are 
young  that  you  are  attracted  to  the 
low  standard,  to  the  easy  course,  to  the 
careless  way.  I  say  they  who  would  sell 
youth  so  cheaply  do  not  know  you. 

Some  of  you  who  are  young,  and 
many  perhaps  who  are  older,  have  un- 
wittingly been  tampering  with,  or  have 
become  addicted  to,  the  use  of  alcohol, 
tobacco,  or  hot  drinks.  Probably  you 
feel  estranged,  even  rejected,  by  the 
Lord  and  by  his  Church. 

If  you  only  knew  how  he  yearns  to 
open  the  flood  gates  of  blessings.  How 
he  cries  for  you  as  did  David  for 
Absalom,  ".  .  .  my  son,  my  son!" 
(2  Sam.  18:33.) 

We  make  no  apologies  for  holding  to 
a  standard  that  the  Lord  has  set. 
In  this  ominous  day  when  spiritual 
strength  is  so  desperately  needed,  we 
invite   all   youth   to   come    where  a 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


109 


standard  is  kept,  where  the  challenge 
is  great,  where  much  is  required,  where 
the  gospel  is  lived. 

I  bear  witness  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  he  is  the  Lamb 
of  God,  crucified  that  men  might  live. 
Though  we  suffer  mortal  death,  through 
the  blood  of  the  Lamb  we  have  amnesty 
from  spiritual  death  if  we  keep  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord,  for  it  shall 
pass  over  us  and  not  slay  us.  This 
witness  may  come  to  you  even  in  your 
youth.  On  the  basis  of  this  personal 
testimony  I  commend  to  you  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  which  is  not  only  a  code 
of  health,  but  quite  as  much  a  key  to 
spiritual  wisdom — a  principle  with  a 
promise — in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  EZRA 

Of  the  Council  of 

"Righteousness  exalteth  a  nation:  .  .  ." 
(Prov.  14:34.)  This  statement  of  eternal 
truth  from  Proverbs  appeared  on  the 
flyleaf  and  the  last  page  of  a  booklet 
at  each  plate  at  the  President's  Prayer 
Breakfast  in  the  Grand  Ballroom  of  the 
Mayflower  Hotel,  February  7,  1963  in 
Washington,  DC.  This  annual  breakfast 
is  sponsored  jointly  by  the  US  Senate 
and  House  of  Representatives  Prayer 
Breakfast  Groups  and  the  International 
Christian  Leadership  Conference. 

As  I  listened  to  the  prayers,  readings 
from  the  Old  and  New  Testaments,  and 
messages  from  government  and  non- 
government leaders,  I  reviewed  hurriedly 
our  spiritual  background  as  a  nation 
and  today's  spiritual  needs. 

For,  truly,  "Righteousness  exalteth  a 
nation:  but  sin  is  a  reproach  to  any 
people."  (Idem.) 

The  beautiful  old  print  which  hangs 
in  Carpenter's  Hall,  Philadelphia,  came 
to  mind.  It  is  captioned  "The  First 
Prayer  in  Congress,  September  1774."  It 
depicts  most  of  the  members  of  that 
Congress  on  their  knees  with  our  first 
President  as  leader. 

I  recalled  the  terrible  winter  at  Valley 
Forge  and  General  George  Washington 
on  his  knees  in  the  snow,  praying  for 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Boyd 
K.  Packer,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing 
"For  The  Beauty  Of  The  Earth."  After 
the  singing  we  shall  hear  from  Elder 
Ezra  Taft  Benson. 


Selection  by  the  Choir,  "For  The 
Beauty  Of  The  Earth." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  Twelve  will  be  the  concluding 
speaker. 


TAFT  BENSON 

the  Twelve  Apostles 

divine  aid.  I  thought  of  the  words  of 
Lincoln  during  another  time  of  crisis 
as  he  said  humbly:  "I  have  been  driven 
many  times  to  my  knees  by  the  over- 
whelming conviction  that  I  had  no- 
where else  to  go." 

George  Washington  acknowledged 
God's  direction  and  stated:  "Of  all  the 
dispositions  and  habits  which  lead  to 
political  prosperity,  religion  and  mor- 
ality are  indispensable  supports.  .  .  . 
Reason  and  experience  both  forbid  us 
to  expect  that  national  morality  can 
prevail  in  exclusion  of  religious  princi- 
ple." (Washington's  Farewell  Address.) 

Lincoln  knew  that  God  rules  in  the 
affairs  of  men  and  nations.  He 
solemnly  declared:  "God  rules  this 
world — It  is  the  duty  of  nations  as  well 
as  men  to  own  their  dependence  upon 
the  overruling  power  of  God,  to  con- 
fess their  sins  and  transgressions  in 
humble  sorrow  .  .  .  and  to  recognize 
the  sublime  truth  that  those  nations 
only  are  blessed  whose  God  is  the  Lord." 

The  founding  fathers  knew  that 
".  .  .  where  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is, 
there  is  liberty."  (2  Cor.  3:17.)  The 
United  States  of  America  began  and 
lives  as  a  result  of  faith  in  God.  The 


110 

Sunday,  April  7 

Bible  has  been  and  is  the  foundation 
for  this  faith. 

"It  is  impossible  to  govern  the  world 
without  the  Bible,"  said  George 
Washington. 

"The  Bible  is  the  rock  on  which  this 
Republic  rests,"  Andrew  Jackson  pro- 
claimed. 

The  fathers  of  our  country  had  to 
turn  to  religion  in  order  that  their  new 
experiment  make  sense. 

As  I  left  the  prayer  breakfast,  bidding 
good-bye  to  many  warm  friends,  I 
thought  of  the  greatness  of  America — 
the  world's  greatest  power.  During 
World  War  II  she  outproduced  both 
her  enemies  and  allies — "the  American 
Miracle." 

But  I  also  recalled  the  latest  FBI 
reports  revealing  the  ever- increasing 
crime  record — over  seventeen  percent 
increase  in  the  nation's  capital  in  1962 
alone.  I  recalled  our  shockingly  defiant 
record  of  drunkenness  and  immorality 
and  the  fact  we  have  become  a  nation 
of  pleasure-seeking  Sabbath  breakers. 

My  thoughts  turned  to  our  homes 
and  families — our  ever-increasing  divorce 
rate — the  alarming  increase  in  sexual 
sin — infidelity — yes,  even  adultery.  We 
live  in  a  day  of  slick,  quiet,  and  clever 
sins.  It  is  made  easy  to  cover  up. 

I  recalled  the  solidarity  of  the  homes 
of  long  past  when  family  prayer,  daily 
devotion,  the  reading  of  the  scriptures, 
and  the  singing  of  hymns  was  a  com- 
mon practice  in  American  homes — a 
practice  which,  I  am  sorry  to  say,  has  all 
but  disappeared  today. 

I  became  saddened  as  I  reviewed  evi- 
dence of  a  lessening  of  moral  stability, 
honor,  integrity,  love  of  country — a 
seeking  for  the  honors  of  men,  of  some- 
thing for  nothing — the  tendency  to  lean 
more  and  more  on  government,  the 
result  of  our  ever-increasing  demands, 
even  though  often  economically,  so- 
cially, and  spiritually  unsound. 

There  has  been  a  nation-wide  erosion 
of  individual  character.  Jefferson's 
words  still  ring  true:  "Material  abun- 
dance without  character  is  the  surest  way 
to  destruction."  I  recalled  how  proudly 
in  generations  past,  we  spoke  of  the 
"American  way  of  life." 

Then,  I  saw  thirty  million  door  knob 
hangers  being  distributed  by  the  Boy 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

Scouts,  setting  forth  our  political  and 
economic  rights  in  an  effort  to  stimu- 
late patriotism  in  this  choice  land.  As  I 
read  this  message  from  Freedom  Foun- 
dation and  the  Boy  Scouts  of  America, 
I  thought  of  our  basic  American  con- 
cepts, our  constitutional  government, 
based  on  a  fundamental  belief  in  God. 

I  became  alarmed  as  I  reviewed  what 
has  happened  in  our  schools  under  so- 
called  "progressive  education."  What 
about  the  loss  of  patriotism,  faith  in 
God,  and  the  teachings  of  character 
building  principles  once  so  much  a  part 
of  our  education?  We  have  all  but 
"forced  Americanism  out  of  the  class- 
room to  make  way  for  temporary  trivial- 
ities." (DeLove.) 

I  remembered  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith's  warning  of  the  three  dangers  to 
the  Church  from  within,  viz.,  the  flat- 
tery of  prominent  men,  sexual  impurity, 
and  false  educational  ideas.  (Gospel 
Doctrine,  p.  312.) 

Then  there  came  to  me  the  words  of 
that  courageous  American  patriot  J. 
Edgar  Hoover:  "Today  as  never  before, 
America  has  need  for  men  and  women 
who  possess  the  moral  strength  and 
courage  of  our  forefathers — modern-day 
patriots,  with  pride  in  our  country  and 
faith  in  freedom.  .  .  . 

"Too  often  in  recent  years,  patriotic 
symbols  have  been  shunted  aside.  Our 
national  heroes  have  been  maligned, 
our  history  distorted.  Has  it  become  a 
disgrace  to  pledge  allegiance  to  our  flag 
— or  sign  a  loyalty  oath,  or  pay  tribute 
to  our  national  anthem?  Is  it  shameful 
to  encourage  our  children  to  memorize 
the  stirring  words  of  the  men  of  '76? 
Is  it  becoming  opprobrious  to  state  'In 
God  we  Trust'  when  proclaiming  our 
love  of  country? 

"What  we  desperately  need  today  is 
patriotism  founded  on  a  real  under- 
standing of  the  American  ideal — a  dedi- 
cated belief  in  our  principles  of  freedom, 
and  a  determination  to  perpetuate 
America's  heritage.  .  .  ." 

Are  we  slipping  from  our  moorings, 
becoming  soft,  carelessly  drawing  away 
from  the  course  which  has  brought  us 
such  priceless  blessings  in  days  past? 

David  Lawrence,  editor  of  the  U.S. 
News  y  World  Report  has  said:  "The 
destiny  of  the  world  is  in  the  hands  of 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


112 

Sunday,  April  7 

well  be  that  our  government  and  its 
free  institutions  will  not  be  preserved 
except  at  the  price  of  life  and  blood.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  the  paths  we  are  following,  if 
we  move  forward  thereon,  will  in- 
evitably lead  us  to  socialism  or  com- 
munism, and  these  two  are  as  like  as 
two  peas  in  a  pod  in  their  ultimate 
effect  upon  our  liberties.  .  .  . 

"We  may  first  observe  that  com- 
munism and  socialism — which  we  shall 
hereafter  group  together  and  dub 
Statism — cannot  live  with  Christianity, 
nor  with  any  religion  that  postulates  a 
Creator  such  as  the  Declaration  of  Inde- 
pendence recognizes.  The  slaves  of 
Statism  must  know  no  power,  no  au- 
thority, no  source  of  blessing,  no  God, 
but  the  State.  .  .  . 

"This  country  faces  ahead  enough 
trouble  to  bring  us  to  our  knees  in  hum- 
ble honest  prayer  to  God  for  the  help 
which  He  alone  can  give,  to  save  us.  .  .  . 

"Do  not  think  that  all  these  usurpa- 
tions, intimidations,  and  impositions  are 
being  done  to  us  through  inadvertency 
or  mistake;  the  whole  course  is  deliber- 
ately planned  and  carried  out;  its  pur- 
pose is  to  destroy  the  Constitution  and 
our  Constitutional  government.  .  .  . 

"We  have  largely  lost  the  conflict  so 
far  waged.  But  there  is  time  to  win  the 
final  victory,  if  we  can  sense  our  danger, 
and  fight."  (Deseret  News,  "Church 
Section,"  Sept.  25,  1949,  pp.  2,  15.) 

Thus  spoke  the  ever  forthright  and 
courageous  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

And  finally,  and  most  important  of 
all,  I  turned  in  my  review  to  the  coun- 
sel of  our  beloved  leader  who  has  been 
an  inspiration  to  me  since  boyhood, 
President  David  O.  McKay,  God's 
mouthpiece  on  the  earth  today.  "During 
the  first  half  of  the  twentieth  century," 
said  President  McKay,  "we  have  traveled 
far  into  the  soul-destroying  land  of 
socialism  and  made  strange  alliances 
through  which  we  have  become  involved 
in  almost  continuous  hot  and  cold  wars 
over  the  whole  of  the  earth.  In  this 
retreat  from  freedom  the  voices  of  pro- 
testing citizens  have  been  drowned  by 
raucous  shouts  of  intolerance  and  abuse 
from  those  who  led  the  retreat  and  their 
millions  of  gullible  youth,  who  are 
marching  merrily  to  their  doom,  carry- 
ing banners  on  which  are  emblazoned 


Third  Day 

such  intriguing  and  misapplied  labels 
as  social  justice,  equality,  reform,  patri- 
otism, social  welfare."  (Ibid.,  October 
18,  1952,  p.  2.) 

"The  fostering  of  full  economic  free- 
dom lies  at  the  base  of  our  liberties. 
Only  in  perpetuating  economic  freedom 
can  our  social,  political,  and  religious 
liberties  be  preserved.  .  .  .  We  must  not 
let  complacency  blind  our  eyes  to  the 
real  dangers  threatening  to  destroy  us." 
(Ibid.,  March  2,  1952.) 

"Communism  is  antagonistic  to  the 
American  way  of  life.  Its  avowed  pur- 
pose is  to  destroy  belief  in  God  and  free 
enterprise,"  declared  President  McKay. 
"In  education  for  citizenship,  therefore, 
why  should  we  not  see  to  it  that  every 
child  in  America  is  taught  the  superi- 
ority of  our  way  of  life,  of  our  Constitu- 
tion and  the  sacredness  of  the  freedom 
of  the  individual.  Such  definite  in- 
struction is  not  in  violation  of  either  the 
federal  or  the  state  constitution.  .  .  . 

"I  love  the  Stars  and  Stripes,  and  the 
American  Way  of  Life.  I  have  faith  in 
the  Constitution  of  the  United  States.  I 
believe  that  only  through  a  truly  edu- 
cated citizenry  can  the  ideals  that 
inspired  the  Founding  Fathers  of  our 
Nation  be  preserved  and  perpetuated." 

Then  President  McKay  listed  as  one 
of  the  four  fundamental  elements  in 
such  an  education  the  "Open  and  force- 
ful teaching  of  facts  regarding  com- 
munism as  an  enemy  to  God  and  to 
individual  freedom."  (Ibid.,  March  13, 
1954,  p.  3.) 

President  McKay  has  called  com- 
munism the  greatest  threat  to  the 
Church  today.  (Press  Conference,  Hvde 
Park  Chapel,  London,  Feb.  24,  1961.) 

Because  the  latest  words  of  God's 
prophet  are  of  extreme  importance  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  let  me  in  conclu- 
sion, quote  very  briefly  and  humbly 
from  the  counsel  given  by  President 
McKay  in  the  last  three  general 
conferences.  In  October  1961  Presi- 
dent McKay  gave  a  stirring  opening 
address  on  our  American  way  of  life 
and  the  communist  threat.  He  expressed 
grief  and  shock  over  a  Supreme  Court 
decision  and  stated  that  the  enemies  to 
our  Republican  form  of  government  are 
becoming  more  blatant. 

At  the  close  of  the  general  conference 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


111 


those  statesmen  who  can  interpret  faith- 
fully the  commands  of  the  Almighty." 

Can  our  national  leaders  do  this?  Can 
they  interpret  faithfully  the  commands 
of  the  Almighty?  Can  we  as  citizens  of 
this  blessed  land?  Can  we  as  people  of 
the  free  world?  Do  we  believe  that 
"righteousness  exalteth  a  nation,"  that 
there  is  safety  only  in  righteous  living? 

Fortunately,  today  we  are  not  left  in 
darkness.  We  have  a  guide,  not  only 
the  Holy  Bible,  but  added  modern 
scriptures.  And  of  the  utmost  im- 
portance for  us  today,  we  have  the  coun- 
sel and  direction  of  living  oracles.  This 
counsel,  this  direction — in  fact  the  mes- 
sage of  the  fulness  of  the  restored  gospel 
is  being  carried  to  the  world  by  12,000 
ambassadors  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

And  what  is  this  message?  It  is  a 
world  message  of  the  utmost  importance. 
It  is  that  God  has  again  spoken  from 
the  heavens.  The  priesthood  and  au- 
thority to  act  in  his  name  has  been 
restored  again  to  men  on  the  earth, 
following  centuries  of  darkness.  The 
fulness  of  the  everlasting  gospel  is  here 
with  all  of  its  saving  principles.  To 
these  facts  I  bear  humble  witness. 

The  prophets  of  a  new  gospel  dispen- 
sation have  counsel  for  us  today — coun- 
sel on  matters  which  concerned  the 
Founding  Fathers — freedom,  liberty, 
righteousness  which  "exalteth  a  nation." 

Do  we  believe  and  accept  their  coun- 
sel, or  have  we  drifted  away  from 
those  basic  concepts  and  principles, 
without  adherence  to  which,  no  nation 
can  be  exalted.  Elder  Albert  E.  Bowen, 
said:  "That  which  is  right  does  not 
become  wrong  merely  because  it  may  be 
deserted  by  the  majority,  neither  does 
that  which  is  wrong  today  become  right 
tomorrow  by  the  chance  circumstance 
that  it  has  won  the  approval  or  been 
adopted  by  overwhelmingly  predomi- 
nant numbers.  Principles  cannot  be 
changed  by  nor  accommodate  them- 
selves to  the  vagaries  of  popular  senti- 
ment." (Conf.  Rep.,  April  4,  1941,  p.  85.) 

As  a  fitting  conclusion  to  my  review 
I  sought  the  words  of  modern-day 
prophets.  They  have  said  much  by  way 
of  counsel  and  warning  for  our  guidance 
today.  I  turned  to  one  who  has  been 
called  "a  seer  in  the  area  of  govern- 
ment" and  who  has  stood  closest  to  the 


prophet  of  the  Lord — the  President  of 
the  Church — longer  than  any  other  man 
in  Church  history.  I  speak  of  President 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and  I  quote:  "There 
always  comes  a  time  when  unpleasant 
truths  must  be  retold,  even  though  the 
retelling  disturbs  the  ease  and  quiet  of  a 
luxurious  error.  Today  seems  to  be 
such  a  time.  On  such  occasions,  the 
criticism,  slander,  misrepresentation  that 
one  gets,  are  of  no  consequence." 
("Some  Elements  of  Postwar  American 
Life"— 1-24-45.  Address  to  the  Utah 
Woolgrowers  Ass'n.) 

".  .  .  today  government  has  touched 
our  lives  so  intimately  in  all  their  rela- 
tionships and  all  these  governmental 
touchings  have  been  so  tabbed  as  politi- 
cal, that  we  cannot  discuss  anything 
relating  to  our  material  welfare  and 
existence  without  laying  ourselves  liable 
to  the  charge  that  we  are  talking  poli- 
tics." (Deseret  News,  "Church  Section," 
June  16,  1945,  p.  4.) 

"I  have  been  preaching  against  Com- 
munism for  twenty  years,"  said  Presi- 
dent Clark,  over  twenty  years  ago.  "I 
still  warn  you  against  it,  and  I  tell  you 
that  we  are  drifting  toward  it  more 
rapidly  than  some  of  us  understand, 
and  I  tell  you  that  when  Communism 
comes,  the  ownership  of  the  things 
which  are  necessary  to  feed  your  fami- 
lies is  going  to  be  taken  away  from  us. 
I  tell  you  freedom  of  speech  will  go, 
freedom  of  the  press  will  go,  and  free- 
dom of  religion  will  go. 

"I  have  warned  you  against  propa- 
ganda and  hate.  We  are  in  the  midst 
of  the  greatest  exhibition  of  propaganda 
that  the  world  has  ever  seen,  and  all 
directed  toward  one  end.  Just  do  not 
believe  all  you  read."  (Conf.  Rep., 
October  3,  1941,  p.  16  and  Ward  Teach- 
ing Message,  July  1961.) 

"The  plain  and  simple  issue  now  fac- 
ing us  in  America  is  freedom  or 
slavery.  .  .  . 

"Our  real  enemies,"  said  President 
Clark,  "are  communism  and  its  running 
mate,  socialism.  .  .  . 

"And  never  forget  for  one  moment 
that  communism  and  socialism  are  state 
slavery. . .  . 

".  .  .  one  tiling  seems  sure,  we  will  not 
get  out  of  our  present  difficulties  without 
trouble,  serious  trouble.  Indeed,  it  may 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


113 


last  April  President  McKay  emphasized 
that  "men  are  rapidly  classifying  them- 
selves into  two  groups:  believers  and 
nonbelievers."  Then  he  quoted  J. 
Edgar  Hoover's  warning:  "This  na- 
tion is  face  to  face  with  the  greatest 
danger  ever  to  confront  it,  a  sinister  and 
deadly  conspiracy,  which  can  be  con- 
quered only  by  an  alert,  informed 
citizenry.  It  is  indeed  appalling  that 
some  members  of  our  society  continue 
to  deplore  and  criticize  those  who  stress 
the  communist  danger.  Public  indiffer- 
ence to  this  threat  is  tantamount  to  na- 
tional suicide.  Lethargy  leads  only  to 
disaster.  Knowledge  of  the  enemy, 
alertness  to  the  danger,  everyday  patriot- 
ism are  the  brick  and  mortar  with 
which  we  can  build  an  impregnable 
fortress  against  communism."  (Conf. 
Rep.,  April  8,  1962,  p.  125.) 

In  the  last  October  [1962]  conference 
President  McKay  said:  "In  these  days  of 
uncertainty  and  unrest,  liberty-loving 
people's  greatest  responsibility  and  para- 
mount duty  is  to  preserve  and  proclaim 
the  freedom  of  the  individual,  his  rela- 
tionships to  Deity,  and  the  necessity 
of  obedience  to  the  principles  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Only  thus  will 
mankind  find  peace  and  happiness." 

He  finished  his  address  by  urging  us 
"to  support  good  and  conscientious 
candidates  of  either  party  who  are  aware 
of  the  great  dangers  inherent  in  com- 
munism, and  who  are  truly  dedicated  to 
the  Constitution  in  the  tradition  of  the 
founding  fathers."  (Ibid.,  Oct.  5,  1962. 
p.  8.) 

We  cannot  say  that  the  prophet  of 
the  Lord  has  not  warned  us.  President 
McKay  has  emphasized  the  dangers  to 
our  God-given  freedom  again  and 
again.  Will  we  heed  his  counsel?  Are 
we  in  harmony?  Do  we  appreciate  his 
repeated  warnings?  Every  Latter-day 
Saint  has  spiritual  obligations  in  four 
basic  areas:  his  home,  his  church,  his 
job,  and  his  citizenship  responsibility. 
Each  of  these  areas  should  receive  con- 
sistent attention  although  not  necessarily 
equal  time.  Are  we  doing  our  duty  in 
these  important  fields?  What  about  our 
citizenship  responsibility — our  obligation 
to  safeguard  our  freedom  and  preserve 
the  Constitution? 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said  the 


time  would  come  when  the  Constitution 
would  hang  as  it  were  by  a  thread. 
Modern-day  prophets  for  the  last  thirty 
years  have  been  warning  us  that  we 
have  been  rapidly  moving  in  that  direc- 
tion. Fortunately,  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  saw  the  part  the  elders  of  Israel 
would  play  in  this  crisis.  Will  there  be 
some  of  us  who  won't  care  about  saving 
the  Constitution,  others  who  will  be 
blinded  by  the  craftiness  of  men,  and 
some  who  will  knowingly  be  working  to 
destroy  it?  He  that  has  ears  to  hear 
and  eyes  to  see  can  discern  by  the  Spirit 
and  through  the  words  of  God's  mouth- 
piece that  our  liberties  are  being  taken. 

The  enemy  is  amongst  and  upon  us. 
Zion  must  awake  and  arouse  herself.  We, 
the  elders  of  Israel  can  be  and  should  be, 
the  leaven  in  the  loaf  for  freedom. 

Years  ago,  President  Brigham  Young 
stated,  "We  all  believe  that  the  Lord 
will  fight  our  battles;  but  how?  Will 
he  do  it  while  we  are  unconcerned  and 
make  no  effort  whatever  for  our  own 
safety  when  the  enemy  is  upon  us?  .  .  . 
it  would  be  quite  as  reasonable  to  expect 
remission  of  sins  without  baptism,  as  to 
expect  the  Lord  to  fight  our  battles 
without  our  taking  every  precaution  to 
be  prepared  to  defend  ourselves.  The 
Lord  requires  us  to  be  quite  as  willing  to 
fight  our  own  battles  as  to  have  Him 
fight  them  for  us.  If  we  are  not  ready 
for  the  enemy  when  he  comes  upon  us, 
we  have  not  lived  up  to  the  require- 
ments of  Him  who  guides  the  ship  of 
Zion,  or  who  dictates  the  affairs  of 
His  kingdom."  (Journal  of  Discourses 
11:131.) 

May  we  as  a  free  people  face  coura- 
geously the  challenging  responsibility 
which  faces  us.  "All  that  is  necessary  for 
the  triumph  of  evil  is  that  good  men  do 
nothing."  (Edmund  Burke.)  We  are  not 
here  to  sit  by  complacently  while  our 
birthright  of  freedom  is  exchanged  for  a 
mess  of  socialist-communist  pottage. 

I  love  this  great  land — the  Lord's 
latter-day  base  of  operations.  I  love  the 
free  world.  I  love  our  Father's  chil- 
dren everywhere. 

God  bless  us  in  our  stewardship.  May 
we  be  at  least  as  valiant  for  freedom 
and  righteousness,  here  and  now,  as  we 
were  when  we  fought  for  these  princi- 
ples in  the  pre-existence. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


114 

Sunday,  April  7 

There  is  no  other  safe  way.  For 
"Righteousness  exalteth  a  nation:  .  .  ." 
(Prov.  14:34.) 

I  bear  you  this  witness,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  Twelve  has  just  been  our  con- 
cluding speaker. 

We  shall  conclude  this  sixth  session 
of  the  133rd  Annual  General  Conference 
of  the  Church  with  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  singing,  "Now  Thank  We  All 
Our  God."  Following  the  singing  the 
benediction  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
John  D.  Warner,  formerly  President  of 


Third  Day 

the  Finnish  Mission.  This  Conference 
will  then  be  adjourned  until  two  o'clock 
this  afternoon. 

We  express  appreciation  to  the  owners 
and  managers  of  the  many  television 
and  radio  stations  who  have  offered  their 
facilities  as  a  public  service  to  make  the 
proceedings  of  this  Conference  available 
to  millions  throughout  North  America, 
South  America,  Europe,  and  many  other 
areas  of  the  world. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  hymn, 
"Now  Thank  We  All  Our  God." 

Elder  John  D.  Warner,  formerly  Pres- 
ident of  the  Finnish  Mission,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  concluding  session  of  the  Con- 
ference was  held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Sunday,  April  7  at  2:00  p.m.,  with  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay  presiding  and 
conducting  the  services  of  the  meeting. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  was  present 
again  this  afternoon  and  furnished  the 
choral  music. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square 
in  Salt  Lake  City  in  the  seventh  and 
concluding  conference  session  of  the 
One  Hundred  Thirty-Third  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church.  This  after- 
noon 22  radio  stations  throughout  the 
western  part  of  the  United  States  will 
carry  the  proceedings  of  this  session. 
Television  stations  in  Utah,  Idaho,  and 
Montana  will  also  televise  this  conclud- 
ing session. 

The  session  this  morning  was  carried 
"live"  from  the  Tabernacle  by  56  tele- 
vision and  radio  stations  from  Denver 
to  the  West  Coast.  You  will  be  inter- 
ested, also,  to  know  that  this  morning's 
session  was  beamed  by  short  wave  over 
facilities  of  Station  WRUL  of  Boston  in 
Spanish  to  the  Caribbean,  Mexico, 
Central  America,  and  South  America, 


and  in  English  to  all  parts  of  Europe, 
Africa  and  parts  of  Asia.  Also,  the  pro- 
ceedings of  both  sessions  today  will  be 
re-broadcast  to  far  distant  places  by 
radio  Station  KSL  from  one  o'clock  to 
five  o'clock  Monday  morning. 

The  General  Priesthood  Meeting, 
which  was  the  fifth  session  of  this  An- 
nual Conference,  was  held  in  the  Salt 
Lake  Tabernacle,  with  an  overflow 
meeting  in  the  Assembly  Hall.  The 
proceedings  of  this  Priesthood  Meeting 
were  relayed  by  closed  circuit  wire 
originating  in  the  Tabernacle,  to  mem- 
bers of  the  Priesthood  assembled  in  359 
locations  in  all  parts  of  the  United 
States,  including  Alaska,  and  in  Canada. 
It  is  estimated  that  50,000  men  and 
boys  participated  in  this  meeting  by 
direct  wire.  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  was 
speaker  in  the  first  hour  of  that  Priest- 
hood meeting.  He  gave  a  very  impres- 
sive address. 

We  extend  a  cordial  welcome  to  all 
present  this  afternoon — special  guests, 
educational  leaders,  stake  presidencies 
from  near  and  far,  temple  presidents, 
bishoprics,  members  of  the  General 
Auxiliary  Boards,  members  of  the 
Church  and  friends  listening  in  by  radio 
and  television. 

The  music  for  this  session  will  be 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


115 


rendered  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with 
Richard  P.  Condie  and  Jay  E.  Welch 
conducting.  Alexander  Schreiner  is  at 
the  organ.  We  shall  begin  this  service 
by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  singing  "Christ 
Is  Coming  Soon,"  with  Jay  E.  Welch 
directing.  The  invocation  will  be  of- 
fered by  Elder  David  S.  Romney, 
formerly  President  of  the  Western 
States  Mission. 


The  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "Christ 
Is  Coming  Soon,"  (Jay  E.  Welch  con- 
ducting) . 

Elder  David  S.  Romney,  formerly 
President  of  the  Western  States  Mission, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 
David  S.  Romney,  formerly  President 
of  the  Western  States  Mission.  The 
Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing  "God 
So  Loved  The  World,"  conducted  by 
Elder  Richard  P.  Condie.  After  the 
singing  Elder  LeGrand  Richards  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  address  us. 

I  think  before  the  Choir  sings  I  will 
let  you  share  some  words  from  brethren 
who  are  also  listening. 

"Reception  wonderful.  President 
Stephen  C.  Richards,  Central  German 
Mission." 

"Receive  you  loud  and  clear.  Irish 
missionaries." 

"All  Canada  thanks  you  and  rejoices 
with  you  in  its  first  televised  session  of 
Conference.  Reception  wonderful.  Great- 
est missionary  to  ever  come  to  Canada. 


God  bless  all  of  you.  Sincerely  your 
brother,  Carroll  W.  Smith,  President, 
Western  Canadian  Mission." 

"Thousands  of  Canadians  join  with 
saints  in  Edmonton  historic  television 
broadcast  this  morning.  Reception 
perfect.  All  our  love.  LeRoy  Rollins, 
Stake  President."  He  is  just  next  door. 

Albuquerque:  "Great  broadcast,  won- 
derful achievement." 

"My  heart  is  full  of  much  joy  as  I 
witness  this  wonderful  Conference  on 
television  over  Station  10  Michigan. 
Your  brother  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  for  65  years,  Fred  Ely  White." 

"Saints  in  Chicago  land  thrilled  to  be 
with  all  of  you  in  spirit  and  love 
through  live  TV  broadcasting  WGN 
Channel  9  the  6th  Session  of  Confer- 
ence. Thanks  for  your  blessings  and 
inspirations.  May  the  Lord  continue 
to  bless  and  preserve  each  of  you.  J. 
Darold  Johnson,  First  Counselor,  Chi- 
cago Stake  presidency." 

One  more:  "Televised  Conference  ses- 
sion. Reception  clear.  Greatly  appre- 
ciated by  stake  members.  LaVere  N. 
Bagwell,  President  San  Luis  Stake." 

The  Choir  will  sing  "God  So  Loved 
The  World." 


Selection  by  the  Choir,  "God  So 
Loved  The  World." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  first  speaker  this  afternoon  will 
be  Elder  LeGrand  Richards  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve.  He  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Henry  D.  Taylor. 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


As  we  have  listened  to  the  announce- 
ments made  by  our  worthy  President 
in  the  various  meetings  of  this  confer- 
ence as  to  the  extent  to  which  the  pro- 
ceedings of  the  conference  are  being 
broadcast  into  the  various  missions  and 
nations  of  the  earth,  we  are  impressed 
with  the  privilege  we  have  of  living  in 
this  day  and  age  when  the  Lord  is 
doing  so  much  to  cut  his  work  short  in 
righteousness.    We  were  told  in  the 


newspaper  the  other  night  that  there 
would  be  a  possible  potential  listening 
audience  of  ninety  million  people  to  our 
conference.  Some  of  us  are  old  enough 
to  have  participated  from  this  pulpit 
when  we  did  not  even  have  a  public 
address  system,  when  some  of  the 
brethren  with  weak  voices  could  hardly 
be  heard  under  the  gallery.  Just  think 
of  the  difference! 
Well,  there  are  other  developments  in 


116 

Sunday,  April  7 

this  world  in  the  day  in  which  we  are 
living  that  are  even  more  important  than 
these  physical  advancements,  and  that 
is  the  spiritual  advancement  that  has 
come  through  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel  in  our  day,  the  committing  to 
this  earth,  according  to  the  words  of 
Isaiah,  of  "a  marvellous  work  and  a 
wonder."  (Isa.  29:14.)  The  Lord  said  he 
would  set  his  hand  to  do  it  in  our  time. 

There  is  a  reported  statement  made 
by  one  of  our  nationally  well-known 
commentators  a  few  years  ago  in  which 
he  said  that  he  had  been  asked  what 
message  could  be  broadcast  to  the  world 
that  would  be  considered  to  be  of 
greater  importance  than  any  other.  He 
said  that  after  giving  the  matter  con- 
sideration he  decided  that  to  be  able 
to  say  to  the  world  that  a  man  who  had 
lived  here  upon  this  earth  and  had  died 
had  returned  again  with  a  message  from 
God  would  be  the  greatest  message  that 
could  be  broadcast  to  the  world. 

I  believe  that,  and  that  is  the  message 
of  this  Church,  and  that  is  why  we  are 
a  great  missionary  Church.  If  we  have 
a  message  to  broadcast  to  the  world,  it 
should  be  something  that  the  world  is 
not  already  in  possession  of,  or  else  there 
would  be  no  reason  for  the  Lord  sending 
one  back  to  this  earth  who  had  already 
lived  upon  the  earth  and  died  in  order 
that  he  might  bring  back  a  message. 

As  you  brethren  and  sisters  know, 
that  messenger  that  I  refer  to  now  was 
Moroni,  who  lived  upon  this  land  of 
America  as  a  prophet  of  God  some  four 
hundred  years  after  the  birth  of  the 
Savior,  who  was  the  custodian  of  the 
records  that  had  been  kept  of  a  people 
over  a  thousand  year  period;  and  he 
hid  them  away,  according  to  the  com- 
mand of  the  Lord  and  brought  those 
records  back  to  the  earth  in  this  day  and 
time  and  delivered  them  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith. 

The  world  doesn't  change  much.  His- 
tory repeats  itself.  Jesus  said  in  his  day 
that  they  decorated  the  graves  of  the 
dead  prophets,  but  they  rejected  the  liv- 
ing prophets.  We  have  a  precedent  in  the 
Bible  of  a  man  who  had  lived  upon  the 
earth  and  died  and  returned  again  with 
a  message  from  God,  and  when  a  man 
returns  with  a  message  from  God,  he  has 
to  deliver  that  message  to  someone  whom 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

God  directs  should  receive  it,  and  that 
individual  would  be  none  other  than  a 
prophet  of  God.  As  Amos  said: 

"Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do  nothing, 
but  he  revealeth  his  secret  unto  his 
servants  the  prophets."  (Amos  3:7.) 

Then  you  remember  that  when  John 
the  Revelator  was  banished  upon  the 
Isle  of  Patmos,  the  Lord  sent  his  angel 
who  showed  John  the  whole  history  of 
the  world  from  the  time  there  was  war 
in  heaven  and  a  third  of  the  hosts  of 
heaven  were  cast  out,  up  to  the  final 
winding  up  scenes  when  there  should 
be  a  new  heaven  and  a  new  earth.  He 
saw  the  dead,  small  and  great,  stand 
before  God,  and  they  were  judged  ac- 
cording to  the  things  that  were  written 
in  the  books,  according  to  their  works. 

When  the  angel  had  showed  John 
all  these  things,  he  fell  down  to  worship 
before  the  feet  of  the  angel  who  said: 

".  .  .  See  thou  do  it  not:  for  I  am  thy 
fellowservant,  and  of  thy  brethren  the 
prophets,  and  of  them  which  keep  the 
sayings  of  this  book:  worship  God." 
(Rev.  22:9.) 

He  was  but  a  fellowservant  of  the 
brethren  of  the  prophets,  which  means 
he  was  an  individual  who  had  lived 
upon  this  earth  and  was  sent  back  with 
a  message  from  God. 

In  that  same  sense  the  Lord  sent 
Moroni  back.  He  did  not  come  of  his 
own  accord.  If  Moroni's  coming  and 
what  he  brought  were  recorded  in  the 
Bible,  the  Christian  world  would  be 
willing  to  accept  it,  but  because  it  comes 
from  a  new  prophet  in  our  day  and  time, 
they  are  slow  as  they  were  in  the  days 
of  the  Savior  in  accepting  the  words  of 
the  living  prophets. 

One  of  the  most  tangible  evidences 
that  Moroni  actually  did  come  and 
visit  the  Prophet  Joseph  is  the  Book  of 
Mormon  and  its  translation  and  what 
it  has  contributed  to  the  world.  As  I 
understand  the  Book  of  Mormon — and 
by  the  way,  I  think  Brother  Kimball 
gave  us  a  marvelous  description  of  it  in 
his  talk  yesterday,  and  what  it  has  to 
contribute  to  the  world — as  I  think  of 
that,  I  think  it  is  an  evidence  that  proves 
that  the  story  told  by  Joseph  Smith  that 
Moroni  did  bring  the  plates  is  a  tangi- 
ble evidence  that  the  world  has  to 


ELDER  LEGRj 

reckon  with  in  order  to  be  able  to  ac- 
count for  that  book. 

We  are  told  in  the  scriptures — you 
remember  the  words  of  Jesus  on  the  way 
to  Emmaus  as  he  talked  with  his  dis- 
ciples. He  said:  "O  fools,  and  slow  of 
heart  to  believe  all  that  the  prophets 
have  spoken":  (Luke  24:25.)  And  then 
beginning  with  Moses  and  the  prophets, 
he  showed  them  how  in  all  things  the 
prophets  had  testified  of  him.  Peter 
tells  us  he  opened  their  understanding 
that  they  might  understand  the  scrip- 
tures (Ibid.,  24:45)  and  you  remember 
what  Peter  said: 

"We  have  also  a  more  sure  word  of 
prophecy;  whereunto  ye  do  well  that  ye 
take  heed,  as  unto  a  light  that  shineth 
in  a  dark  place,  until  the  day  dawn, 
and  the  day  star  arise  in  your  hearts: 

"Knowing  this  first,  that  no  prophecy 
of  the  scripture  is  of  any  private  inter- 
pretation. 

"For  the  prophecy  came  not  in  old 
time  by  the  will  of  man:  but  holy  men 
of  God  spake  as  they  were  moved  by 
the  Holy  Ghost."  (2  Peter  1:19-21.) 

As  I  understand  the  Book  of  Mormon 
and  its  teachings  and  the  prophecies 
of  the  Bible,  I  think  there  are  prophe- 
cies in  the  Bible  that  no  man  in  our 
day  can  explain  properly  and  intelli- 
gently without  the  information  con- 
tained in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  This  is  a 
new  witness  from  God  for  our  day,  for 
the  conversion  of  the  Jew  and  the  gentile 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  very  Eternal 
God,  manifesting  himself  unto  all  na- 
tions. (See  Book  of  Mormon  title  page.) 

So  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  we  have 
information  that  gives  us  to  understand 
statements  in  the  Bible  which  we  could 
not  understand  without  the  information 
contained  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  I 
will  give  you  a  few  illustrations  of  what 
I  mean. 

When  Moses  gave  a  blessing  to  each 
of  the  twelve  sons  of  Israel,  he  gave 
Joseph  a  blessing  of  a  new  land  in  the 
utmost  bounds  of  the  everlasting  hills, 
and  in  describing  that  land,  Moses  used 
the  word  "precious"  five  times  in  just  a 
few  verses  in  the  Bible,  telling  what  a 
marvelous  land  the  Lord  had  for  Joseph, 
and  he  would  be  separated  from  his 
brethren.  (Deut.  33:13-17.) 

I  do  not  believe  there  is  anyone  in 


<D  RICHARDS  117 

this  world  outside  of  this  Church  who 
can  tell  where  that  new  land  is  and  can 
give  an  account  of  how  the  Lord  ful- 
filled the  promises  unto  Joseph  that  he 
would  be  blessed  in  that  land,  even 
above  the  blessings  of  his  fathers.  Who 
were  his  fathers?  Abraham,  Isaac,  and 
Jacob,  and  yet  Moses  promised  Joseph 
blessings  even  above  the  blessings  of 
his  own  fathers. 

Why  do  we  know  about  it?  Because 
the  Book  of  Mormon  tells  us  how  the 
Lord  led  a  group  out  of  Jerusalem  into 
this  land  of  America  who  were  descend- 
ants of  Joseph,  and  how  he  fulfilled  his 
promise  and  commanded  that  a  record 
should  be  kept.  It  seems  incredible  to 
think  of  the  promises  made  to  Joseph 
that  the  Lord  would  not  have  made 
provision  that  a  record  should  have  been 
kept  of  the  fulfilment  of  those  promises, 
but  that  he  did,  and  that  record  is  the 
Book  of  Mormon. 

There  are  other  passages  that  also  in- 
dicate the  value  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
Just  to  illustrate  what  I  have  in  mind. 
I  had  the  privilege  of  talking  to  a  group 
of  ministers  just  a  few  years  ago  by 
assignment  from  President  McKay,  and 
I  quoted  some  of  these  scriptures.  I 
asked  them  if  they  knew  why  the  verses 
were  in  the  Bible  and  if  they  knew  of 
any  Church  in  the  world  that  did  know 
why  they  were  in  the  Bible,  and  the 
next  record  that  I  quoted  was  the  one 
where  Jesus  said: 

"And  other  sheep  I  have,  which  are 
not  of  this  fold:  them  also  I  must  bring, 
and  they  shall  hear  my  voice;  and  there 
shall  be  one  fold,  and  one  shepherd." 
(John  10:16.) 

I  asked  those  men  if  they  knew  any- 
thing about  those  other  sheep  or  the 
fulfilment  of  the  promise  of  the  Lord 
that  he  would  visit  them,  and  they 
would  hear  his  voice,  and  there  should 
be  one  fold  and  one  shepherd.  None 
of  them  could  tell,  and  so  I  just  turned 
to  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  showed 
them  that  when  Jesus,  following  his 
crucifixion  and  resurrection  and  ascen- 
sion, visited  his  people  here  in  the 
land  of  America,  he  told  them  they 
were  the  other  sheep  of  whom  he  spoke 
to  his  disciples  in  Jerusalem,  and  he 
said  that  never  at  any  time  did  the 
Lord  command  him  that  he  should  tell 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


118 

Sunday,  April  7 

his  disciples  in  Jerusalem  who  the  other 
sheep  were;  only  that  he  had  other 
sheep  that  were  not  of  that  fold,  and 
them  should  he  visit.  He  told  them 
they  were  the  other  sheep.  No  one  can 
answer  intelligently  that  statement  in 
John  10:16  without  the  knowledge  that 
the  Book  of  Mormon  has  brought  to  us. 

Ezekiel  was  commanded  by  the  Lord 
that  two  records  should  be  kept,  one 
of  Judah  and  his  followers,  the  house 
of  Israel;  another  for  Joseph  and  his 
followers,  the  house  of  Israel;  and  that 
in  the  days  of  their  children,  meaning 
coming  generations,  he  would  bring 
these  two  records  together,  and  he  would 
make  them  one  in  his  hand.  I  asked 
these  ministers  if  they  knew  anything 
about  that  record,  and  they  did  not. 
I  said,  "Well,  we  know  all  about  it," 
and  then  I  showed  them  that  that  was 
the  Book  of  Mormon  the  Lord  promised. 

No  man  can  believe  the  Bible  with- 
out knowing  there  is  a  companion  record 
that  the  Lord  of  heaven  said  he  would 
bring  forth  and  join  it  with  the  record  of 
Judah,  which  is  the  Bible  that  has  re- 
mained with  us,  and  he  would  make 
them  one  in  his  hand.  (Ezekiel  37:15-20.) 

You  remember  the  words  of  Isaiah 
when  he  said: 

"Woe  to  Ariel,  to  Ariel,  the  city 
where  David  dwelt!  add  ye  year  to 
year;  let  them  kill  sacrifices. 

"Yet  I  will  distress  Ariel,  and  there 
shall  be  heaviness  and  sorrow:  and  it 
shall  be  unto  me  as  Ariel."  (Isa.  29:1-2.) 

If  you  will  read  that  thoughtfully, 
you  will  know  that  he  not  only  saw  the 
destruction  of  Jerusalem,  but  he  saw  the 
destruction  of  another  great  center  like 
unto  Jerusalem.  Then  he  adds: 

"And  thou  shalt  be  brought  down, 
and  shalt  speak  out  of  the  ground,  and 
thy  speech  shall  be  low  out  of  the  dust, 
and  thy  voice  shall  be,  as  of  one  that 
hath  a  familiar  spirit,  out  of  the 
ground,  and  thy  speech  shall  whisper 
out  of  the  dust."  (Ibid.,  29:4.) 

Nobody  in  this  world  could  explain 
that  intelligently  or  know  what  people 
Isaiah  saw  like  unto  Jerusalem  without 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  Here  is  the 
explanation  in  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
"After  my  seed  and  the  seed  of  my 
brethren  shall  have  dwindled  in  un- 
belief, and  shall  have  been  smitten  by 


Third  Day 

the  Gentiles;  yea,  after  the  Lord  God 
shall  have  camped  against  them  round 
about,  and  shall  have  laid  siege  against 
them  with  a  mount,  and  raised  forts 
against  them;  and  after  they  shall  have 
been  brought  down  low  in  the  dust, 
even  that  they  are  not,  yet  the  words 
of  the  righteous  shall  be  written,  and 
the  prayers  of  the  faithful  shall  be 
heard,  and  all  those  who  have  dwindled 
in  unbelief  shall  not  be  forgotten. 

"For  those  who  shall  be  destroyed  shall 
speak  unto  them  out  of  the  ground,  and 
their  speech  shall  be  low  out  of  the 
dust,  and  their  voice  shall  be  as  one  that 
hath  a  familiar  spirit;  for  the  Lord  God 
will  give  unto  him  power  that  he  may 
whisper  concerning  them,  even  as  it 
were  out  of  the  ground,  and  their  speech 
shall  whisper  out  of  the  dust. 

"For  thus  saith  the  Lord  God:  They 
shall  write  the  things  which  shall  be 
done  among  them,  and  they  shall  be 
written  and  sealed  up  in  a  book,  and 
those  who  have  dwindled  in  unbelief 
shall  not  have  them,  for  they  seek  to 
destroy  the  things  of  God."  (2  Nephi 
26:15-17.) 

How  could  Joseph  Smith  have  known 
these  things  when  the  Book  of  Mormon 
was  published  even  before  this  Church 
was  organized,  except  for  the  fact  that 
the  Book  of  Mormon  is  the  promised 
record  that  God  said  he  would  bring 
forth  and  join  to  the  record  of  Judah. 
How  could  anyone  understand  this 
prophecy  of  Isaiah  without  the  explana- 
tion contained  in  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

There  are  more  prophecies  of  the 
scriptures  that  we  could  not  understand 
without  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  that 
have  come  to  us  in  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
The  Book  of  Mormon  stands,  after  one 
hundred  and  thirty  years,  without  any 
criticism  as  to  its  truth.  Just  think  of  a 
book  of  over  five  hundred  pages  being 
printed  with  a  promise  in  it  that  when 
that  book  should  come  that  if  the  per- 
son receiving  it  would  ask  God,  the 
Eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  that  God  would  manifest  the 
truth  of  it  unto  him  by  the  power  of 
the  Holy  Ghost.  (Moroni  10:4.) 

Thousands  and  hundreds  of  thousands 
have  borne  testimony  that  God  has  re- 
vealed the  truth  of  that  book  to  them, 
and  so  it  has  been  a  tangible  evidence 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  TAYLOR 


119 


that  this  messenger  sent  of  God  really 
came  with  a  message  from  God. 

When  I  was  in  the  mission  field,  I 
read  an  article  that  appeared  under  the 
Associated  Press  of  a  man  who  came  to 
California  by  the  name  of  William  A. 
Kennedy  from  Lima,  Peru.  He  was 
gathering  money  to  set  up  an  institute 
or  college  there  to  study  the  history  of 
the  early  inhabitants  of  the  land  of 
South  America,  including  the  Mayan 
and  the  Inca  civilizations,  and  he  had 
the  promise  when  matched  by  the  small 
Americas  of  some  thirty  million  dollars, 
and  President  Hoover  had  agreed  to 
serve  on  that  board.  I  never  heard  of 
what  became  of  it,  but  the  statement 
went  further  to  say  that  within  ten  years 
that  amount  would  increase  to  seventy 
million  dollars. 

Just  think  of  their  being  willing  to 
spend  seventy  million  dollars  to  learn 
something  of  the  history  of  the  early 
inhabitants  of  America,  when  we  could 
give  them  a  copy  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon for  fifty  cents,  and  if  they  did  not 
have  the  fifty  cents,  we  would  give  it  to 
them  for  nothing,  because  it  would  not 
only  tell  about  the  artifacts  they  are 
finding  as  they  dig  into  the  depths  of 
the  earth,  but  it  contains  the  words  of 
the  holy  prophets  and  the  promise  of  the 
Lord  to  this  land,  which  is  a  land  choice 
above  all  other  lands,  the  promise  that 
the  Christ  should  be  the  God  of  this 
land,  that  he  would  fight  the  battles  of 
this  land,  that  the  New  Jerusalem  would 
be  built  upon  this  land,  and  they  will 
not  get  that  when  they  will  have  spent 
their  seventy  million  dollars. 

Just  think  of  what  the  Lord  has  given 
us  in  this  record  to  show  us  the  things 
that  he  has  in  mind  to  accomplish.  We 
have  many  other  testimonies  of  men  as 
to  the  value  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 


I  bear  you  my  witness  that  I  know 
that  book  is  true.  Sister  Richards  and 
I  read  it  last  year  as  the  priesthood  were 
asked  to  do,  and  we  would  keep  saying 
as  we  would  read,  "Isn't  that  wonder- 
ful? Isn't  that  wonderful?  How  could 
Joseph  Smith  at  his  age  have  written 
anything  like  that  except  by  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Almighty?" 

It  reminded  us  of  when  we  attended 
a  course  given  by  Dr.  Widtsoe  here 
some  time  ago  in  the  Barratt  Hall  on 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  He  had 
Sister  Inez  Witbeck  read.  He  would 
say,  "Now  read  section  so-and-so,"  and 
then  he  would  pause  and  say,  "Now, 
you  college  professors  and  you  college 
students,  could  you  write  anything  like 
that?"  He  would  say,  "I  wish  I  could," 
and  there  he  had  been  president  of  two 
universities,  but  the  things  of  God 
are  understood  by  the  Spirit  of  God, 
and  the  testimony  of  those  three 
witnesses  that  an  angel  of  God  came 
down  from  heaven  and  showed  them 
the  plates  with  the  engravings  there- 
on, and  bore  testimony  that  it  was  by 
the  power  of  God,  is  a  testimony  to  all 
the  world. 

That  is  my  testimony  to  you  here 
today,  and  I  pray  God  to  bless  us  all 
that  we  may  realize  what  we  have  by 
the  opening  of  the  heavens  and  the 
restoration  of  the  gospel,  and  leave  you 
my  blessing  in  the  name  of  the  Lord, 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Le- 
Grand  Richards  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.  Elder  Henry  D.  Taylor, 
Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak 
to  us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Franklin  D.  Richards. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  TAYLOR 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


When  the  Psalmist  was  meditating  upon 
the  beauties  of  creation,  he  exclaimed 
with  awe  and  amazement: 

"When  I  consider  thy  heavens,  the 
work  of  thy  fingers,  the  moon  and  the 
stars,  which  thou  hast  ordained; 


"What  is  man,  that  thou  are  mindful 
of  him?  and  the  son  of  man,  that  thou 
visitest  him? 

"For  thou  hast  made  him  a  little 
lower  than  the  angels,  and  hast  crowned 
him  with  glory  and  honour. 


120 

Sunday,  April  7 

"Thou  madest  him  to  have  dominion 
over  the  works  of  thy  hands;  thou  hast 
put  all  things  under  his  feet":  (Psalm 
8:3-6.) 

How  comforting  it  is  to  note  the 
esteem  and  concern  the  Lord  has  for 
his  children. 

What  is  man?  As  Latter-day  Saints 
we  believe  that  man  is  the  spiritual  off- 
spring of  God  our  Heavenly  Father, 
created  in  his  image  and  after  his  like- 
ness. We  further  believe  that  man  once 
dwelt  in  the  presence  of  deity  and  came 
from  a  heavenly  home  to  this  earth. 

The  poet  Wordsworth,  in  a  flash  of 
inspiration,  referred  to  this  transition 
when  he  penned  these  beautiful  lines: 

"Our  birth  is  but  a  sleep  and  a  for- 
getting: 

The  Soul  that  rises  with  us,  our  life's 
Star, 

Hath  had  elsewhere  its  setting, 
And  cometh  from  afar: 

Not  in  entire  forgetfulness, 
And  not  in  utter  nakedness, 
But  trailing  clouds  of  glory  do  we  come 
From  God,  who  is  our  home": 

In  that  far  distant  past  when  plans 
for  the  creation  of  the  earth  were  dis- 
cussed, it  was  proposed  that  those  who 
would  be  privileged  to  come  here  to 
inhabit  the  earth  must  be  tested  and 
tried  to  prove  whether  they  would  do 
all  things  that  the  Lord  would  command 
them  to  do.  The  faithful  were  to  ".  .  . 
have  glory  added  upon  their  heads  for 
ever  and  ever."  (See  Abraham  3:25-26.) 

It  is  our  conviction  that  we  were 
present  at  that  great  council  and  had  a 
voice  in  the  decisions  that  were  made. 
The  Lord  once  asked  the  Prophet  Job 
some  pertinent  questions  pertaining  to 
those  important  events,  when  he  in- 
quired: "Where  wast  thou  when  I  laid 
the  foundations  of  the  earth?  .  .  ." 

"When  the  morning  stars  sang  to- 
gether, and  all  the  sons  of  God  shouted 
for  joy?"  (Job  38:4,  7.) 

Because  of  faithfulness  in  that  former 
estate,  we  have  been  born  into  this 
world,  blessed  with  mortal  bodies  which 
house  eternal  spirits.  Here  we  have  op- 
portunities to  grow,  progress,  and  gain 
experience  in  mortal  and  earthly  things. 

The  divinely  inspired  Declaration  of 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

Independence  proclaims  that  every  citi- 
zen of  this  glorious  country  is  entitled 
to  enjoy  "life,  liberty,  and  the  pursuit 
of  happiness." 

The  attainment  of  happiness  has  be- 
come a  desired  goal  of  most  individuals; 
but  there  are  those  who  ofttimes  mistake 
pleasure  for  happiness,  not  realizing  that 
pleasure  can  be  of  a  temporary  or 
passing  nature  only,  while  happiness  and 
joy  are  permanent  and  enduring. 

An  ancient  prophet  declared:  "Adam 
fell  that  men  might  be;  and  men  are, 
that  they  might  have  joy."  (2  Nephi 
2:25.) 

As  man  travels  down  the  pathway  of 
this  mortal  life,  trusting  that  his  course 
will  be  such  as  to  produce  joy  and 
happiness,  he  becomes  aware  of  many 
obstacles  in  the  road  that  interfere  with 
his  progress.  The  Lord  designed  this 
to  be  so,  for  he  did  not  intend  that  this 
earthly  existence  should  be  easy.  Adam 
was  advised:  ".  .  .  cursed  is  the  ground 
for  thy  sake;  in  sorrow  shalt  thou  eat  of 
it  all  the  days  of  thy  life; 

"Thorns  also  and  thistles  shall  it 
bring  forth  to  thee;  and  thou  shalt  eat 
of  the  herb  of  the  field. 

"In  the  sweat  of  thy  face  shalt  thou 
eat  bread  "  (Gen.  3:17-19.) 

The  pathway  was  to  be  strewn  with 
temptations  and  trials.  Man  was  also 
to  know  good  and  evil  and  be  allowed 
his  free  agency  in  choosing  between  the 
two.  He  was  to  learn  the  law  of  op- 
posites:  that  there  is  sorrow  as  there  is 
joy,  pain  as  contrasted  to  pleasure, 
sickness  as  opposed  to  health;  he  was 
to  taste  the  bitter  as  well  as  the  sweet. 

From  this  testing  process  would  come 
benefits,  for  the  Lord  has  promised 
".  .  .  after  much  tribulation  come  the 
blessings."  The  poet  Kilmer  has  ex- 
pressed the  same  thought  in  the  words: 

"They  say  that  life  is  a  highway, 
And  its  milestones  are  the  years; 

And  now  and  then  there  is  a  toll  gate, 
Where  you  buy  your  way  with  your 
tears. 

"It's  a  rough  road  and  a  steep  road, 
And  it  stretches  broad  and  far, 

But  at  last  it  leads  to  a  golden  town 
Where  the  golden  houses  are." 

Perhaps  during  our  lives  we  have 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  TAYLOR 


121 


been,  or  will  be,  required  to  gaze  on  the 
face  of  a  loved  one  for  the  last  time  in 
mortality.  In  this  hour  of  sorrow,  the 
following  appropriate  words  of  the  poet 
might  well  come  as  a  message  of  com- 
fort to  us: 

"Be  still,  sad  heart!  and  cease  repining; 
Behind  the  clouds  is  the  sun  still  shin- 
ing: 

Thy  fate  is  the  common  fate  of  all: 
Into  each  life  some  rain  must  fall, 
Some  days  must  be  dark  and  dreary." 
("The  Rainy  Day" — Longfellow) 

The  Savior  had  his  dark  and  dreary 
days,  and  in  Gethsemane's  garden  he 
suffered  untold  agony  as  he  contem- 
plated the  events  that  confronted  him 
while  fulfilling  his  exalted  mission. 

We,  too,  will  have  our  dark  and 
dreary  days  in  our  search  for  that  which 
brings  joy  and  happiness.  But  always 
there  is  the  assurance  and  promise  that 
"every  cloud  has  its  silver  lining." 

As  the  Latter-day  Saints  toiled  west- 
ward across  the  trackless  plains,  leading 
from  Nauvoo  to  the  valleys  here  in  the 
mountains,  they  suffered  and  endured 
many  privations  and  hardships,  but  they 
were  comforted  and  cheered  as  they 
sang  at  the  close  of  the  day  these  in- 
spiring words: 

"Why  should  we  mourn  or  think  our 

lot  is  hard? 
'Tis  not  so;  all  is  right! 
Why  should  we  think  to  earn  a  great 

reward, 
If  we  now  shun  the  fight? 

"Gird  up  your  loins,  fresh  courage  take, 
Our  God  will  never  us  forsake. 
And  soon  we'll  have  this  truth  to  tell — 
All  is  well!  All  is  well!" 

("Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints,"  William 
Clayton.) 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  offers  peace 
and  comfort  in  times  of  illness,  trouble, 
and  sorrow.  The  Redeemer  comforted 
his  listeners  with  this  beautiful  and 
assuring  admonition:  "Come  unto  me, 


all  ye  that  labour  and  are  heavy  laden, 
and  I  will  give  you  rest. 

"Take  my  yoke  upon  you  and  learn  of 
me;  for  I  am  meek  and  lowly  in  heart: 
and  ye  shall  find  rest  unto  your  souls. 

"For  my  yoke  is  easy,  and  my  burden 
is  light."  (Matt.  11:28-30.) 

As  we  go  to  the  house  of  worship  each 
Sabbath  day  and  partake  of  the  Sacra- 
ment, we  covenant  with  our  Heavenly 
Father  that  we  will  take  upon  us  the 
name  of  the  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ,  and  by  remembering  him  and 
keeping  his  commandments,  we  may  al- 
ways have  his  Spirit  to  be  with  us. 

Keeping  the  commandments  and  liv- 
ing in  harmony  with  the  teachings  of 
the  Master  will  result  in  assurances  of  a 
righteous  life,  and  a  righteous  life  will 
bring  joy  and  happiness  to  our  souls. 
Then,  even  though  "into  each  life  some 
rain  must  fall,"  into  each  life  also  will 
come  peace  and  contentment. 

From  what  has  been  said,  my  dear 
brothers  and  sisters,  we  can  see  how 
interested  in  and  concerned  about  life 
people  of  every  age  and  clime  have 
been.  They  have  struggled  to  analyze 
it,  to  understand  it,  to  evaluate  it.  But 
its  full  meaning  and  purpose  and  dura- 
tion cannot  be  comprehended  except 
through  the  gospel  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  With  the  gospel  to  comfort,  to 
assist,  to  inspire  us,  let  us  meet  life 
head  on;  courageously,  sincerely,  and 
prayerfully,  meet  its  joys,  its  sorrows,  its 
rains  and  sunshine  with  full  determina- 
tion to  keep  all  of  God's  commandments, 
which  by  so  doing  we  know  will  bring 
us  back  into  his  presence  to  partake  of 
that  eternal  joy  he  has  in  store  for  all 
his  faithful  children,  for  which  I  hum- 
bly pray,  bearing  you  my  testimony  that 
I  know  that  God  lives,  that  the  gospel  is 
true,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Henry  D.  Taylor,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve.  Elder  Franklin  D.  Rich- 
ards, Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will  now 
address  us. 


122 

Sunday,  April  7 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Third  Day 


My  dear  brothers  and  sisters:  I  pray  that 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  be  with  me 
as  I  speak  to  you  today. 

Throughout  history  the  Lord  has  re- 
vealed his  will  to  mankind  through  his 
prophets.  In  1831  in  a  revelation  given 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the  Lord 
promised  that  the  fulness  of  his  gospel 
would  be  restored  and  that  the  voice 
of  warning  should  be  unto  all  people; 
that  his  Church  would  be  established 
and  that  power  would  be  given  to  his 
servants  to  bring  it  forth  out  of  ob- 
scurity and  out  of  darkness;  that  his 
disciples  should  go  forth  and  that  none 
should  stay  them — all  of  this  to  bring  to 
pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of 
man  which  is  the  work  and  glory  of 
God.  (See  D&C  I.) 

In  order  for  man  to  obtain  eternal 
life  and  exaltation  in  God's  kingdom, 
he  must  accept  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  This  is  an  eternal  principle. 
Thus  we  recognize  that  the  gospel  plan 
has  been  and  is  for  all  of  God's 
children. 

However,  many  Christians  believe 
that  the  gospel  plan  dates  only  from  the 
Savior's  ministry  in  the  flesh,  but  we 
know  that  the  gospel  was  understood 
by  the  spirits  which  were  with  our 
Father  in  heaven  before  the  world  was 
formed  or  organized. 

Then  on  this  earth  the  gospel  was 
taught  to  Father  Adam,  and  he  taught 
the  Lord's  commandments  to  his  chil- 
dren. Enoch  understood  the  gospel, 
and  through  faithfulness  the  Saints  of 
the  city  of  Enoch  were  translated. 

Other  great  men  including  Noah, 
Melchizedek,  Abraham,  and  Moses  un- 
derstood the  gospel  plan  and  taught  it 
to  ancient  Israel. 

John  the  Baptist  opened  the  Dispen- 
sation of  the  Meridian  of  Time  by 
preaching  in  the  wilderness,  and  he 
told  of  the  coming  of  our  Lord  and 
Savior  Jesus  Christ. 

Through  the  personal  ministry  of 
Jesus  and  his  apostles,  the  gospel  was 
taught  and  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
established  on  the  earth. 


It  is  my  great  privilege  to  bear  wit- 
ness humbly  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
the  only  begotten  of  the  Father  in  the 
flesh,  our  Redeemer  and  Savior,  and 
the  only  name  under  heaven  given 
among  men  whereby  we  may  be  saved. 

A  falling  away  from  the  Savior's 
teachings  was  predicted,  and  I  testify 
that  this  did  occur.  This  great  apostasy 
made  necessary  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel  plan  and  the  authority  to  act  in 
the  name  of  God. 

When  Joseph  Smith,  the  boy  Prophet, 
went  into  the  woods  in  the  spring  of 
1820  and  asked  God,  "Which  of  all  the 
sects  is  right  and  which  shall  I  join?" 
he  said,  "I  was  answered  that  I  must 
join  none  of  them,  for  they  were  all 
wrong — that  they  teach  for  doctrine  the 
commandments  of  men,  having  a  form 
of  godliness  but  they  deny  the  power 
thereof."  (See  Joseph  Smith  2:18-19.) 

This  apostasy  necessitated  the  estab- 
lishment of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  Joseph  Smith 
was  selected  to  be  the  prophet  through 
whom  the  Lord  re-established  his 
Church. 

The  Lord  set  April  6,  1830,  as  the  date 
that  his  Church  should  be  organized  on 
this  earth — just  133  years  ago  yesterday. 
It  was  organized  by  six  persons  at  the 
home  of  Peter  Whitmer,  Sen.,  in  upper 
New  York  state.  The  members  began 
to  share  their  message  with  their  friends 
and  their  neighbors,  and  the  Church 
enjoyed  rapid  growth. 

At  the  same  place  the  next  Sunday, 
Oliver  Cowdery  commenced  the  public 
ministry  of  the  Church  by  giving  the 
first  gospel  sermon  in  a  public  meet- 
ing called  for  that  purpose.  After  the 
meeting,  six  were  baptized,  and  seven 
more  were  baptized  a  week  later. 

About  thirty  members  of  the  Church 
participated  in  the  first  conference  held 
about  sixty  days  later  on  June  9,  1830. 
(DHC  1,  77,  84.)  Eleven  more  were 
baptized  after  that  conference.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  had  been  told  that  the 
voice  of  warning  should  be  unto  all 
people  by  the  mouths  of  the  Lord's 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS 


123 


disciples  and  that  none  should  stay 
them. 

Oliver  Cowdery,  Parley  P.  Pratt, 
Peter  Whitmer,  Jun.,  and  others  were 
sent  out  as  missionaries  in  the  fall  of 
1830.  They  met  Sidney  Rigdon  in 
Ohio,  and  after  a  brief  but  prayerful 
investigation,  Sidney  Rigdon  received  a 
testimony  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
prophet  of  God,  and  that  the  authority 
to  act  in  the  name  of  God  had  been 
restored.  He  asked  to  be  baptized  and 
was  baptized.  Shortly  thereafter,  he 
held  a  group  meeting  in  which  he 
warned  his  neighbors  and  bore  his  testi- 
mony that  the  gospel  had  been  restored. 

In  the  Kirtland  area  at  this  time 
several  group  meetings  were  held,  and 
seventeen  more  were  baptized. 

Yes,  Joseph  Smith  was  indeed  one  of 
the  great  prophets  of  all  time  and 
through  him  the  Lord  was  performing 
"A  great  and  marvelous  work  .  .  .  among 
the  children  of  men."  (D&C  11:1.) 

I  am  sure  he  remembered  the  words 
of  the  Savior,  "He  that  loveth  father 
or  mother  more  than  me  is  not  worthy 
of  me:  and  he  that  loveth  son  or  daugh- 
ter more  than  me  is  not  worthy  of  me." 
(Matt.  10:37.) 

Then  in  February  1835,  in  accordance 
with  divine  revelation,  the  Quorum  of 
the  Twelve  were  called. 

The  apostles  are  special  witnesses  of 
Christ  and  hold  the  keys  of  the  foreign 
ministry  of  the  Church.  Accordingly, 
seven  of  the  Twelve  set  out  for  England 
in  the  late  summer  of  1839  without 
purse  or  scrip,  and  leaving  their  families 
destitute  of  many  of  the  comforts  of  life. 

About  a  year  later,  in  the  spring  of 
1841,  just  before  leaving  for  home, 
Brigham  Young  wrote  in  his  journal,  "It 
truly  seemed  a  miracle  to  look  upon  the 
contrast  between  our  landing  and  de- 
parting from  Liverpool.  We  landed  in 
the  spring  of  1840  as  strangers  in  a 
strange  land  and  penniless.  But  through 
the  mercy  of  God  we  had  gained  many 
friends,  established  churches  in  almost 
every  noted  town  and  city  in  the  King- 
dom of  Great  Britain,  baptized  between 
seven  and  eight  thousand  souls,  printed 
5,000  Books  of  Mormon,  2,500  volumes 
of  the  Millennial  Star  and  50,000  tracts 
and  emigrated  to  Zion  1,000  souls,  es- 
tablished a  permanent  shipping  agency 


which  will  be  a  great  blessing  to  the 
saints  and  have  sown  in  the  hearts  of 
many  thousands  the  seeds  of  eternal 
truth,  which  shall  bring  forth  fruit  to 
the  honor  and  glory  of  God,  and  yet  we 
have  lacked  nothing  to  eat,  drink  or 
wear — in  all  these  things  I  acknowledge 
the  hand  of  God." 

Thus,  in  such  beginnings,  the  gospel 
message  was  being  taken  to  the  peoples 
of  the  earth,  and  prophecy  fulfilled. 

Approximately  ninety  years  later  at 
the  centennial  conference  held  in  Salt 
Lake  City  on  April  6,  1930,  President 
Heber  J.  Grant  reported  that  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  had  a  living  membership  of 
700,000  souls,  104  stakes,  twenty-nine 
missions,  and  2,226  missionaries.  Con- 
vert baptisms  in  1929  amounted  to 
6,511. 

And  now — today — as  in  earlier  days, 
missionaries  are  leaving  their  families, 
comfortable  homes,  and  worldly  inter- 
ests behind  and  are  going  forth  with  the 
same  dedication  to  build  the  kingdom 
of  God.  They  also  recall  the  promise 
of  the  Savior —  ".  .  .  There  is  no  man 
that  hath  left  house,  or  parents,  or 
brethren,  or  wife,  or  children,  for  the 
kingdom  of  God's  sake, 

"Who  shall  not  receive  manifold 
more  in  this  present  time,  and  in  the 
world  to  come  life  everlasting."  (Luke 
18:29-30.) 

Recently  it  was  reported  that  the  liv- 
ing membership  of  the  Church  now 
totals  two  million  souls,  the  374th  stake 
has  been  organized,  and  there  are  now 
seventy-one  missions  and  approximately 
12,000  missionaries.  As  instruments  in 
the  hands  of  the  Lord  in  1962,  the  mis- 
sionaries taught  and  baptized  115,834 
souls.  In  the  hearts  of  millions  more 
the  seeds  were  sown  which  will  bring 
forth  a  great  harvest  in  the  years  ahead. 

To  you  who  are  not  members  but 
would  like  to  know  more  about  the 
Church,  we  invite  you  to  attend  one 
of  our  church  services  or  ask  a  mem- 
ber to  have  the  missionaries  discuss  the 
doctrine  of  the  Church  with  you  or 
communicate  with  the  missionaries  or 
the  Church  directly. 

The  Savior's  injunction  to  "feed  my 
sheep"  has  been  and  is  being  carried  out. 

Sister  Richards  and  I  have  recently 


124 

Sunday,  April  7 

returned  from  the  missions  on  the  east 
coast,  and  we  bring  greetings  from  the 
missionaries  to  their  families  and 
friends.  There  are  now  twenty  stakes 
on  the  east  coast  with  over  2,000  mis- 
sionaries in  the  eight  missions.  The  field 
is  white  and  is  being  harvested  there. 
Convert  baptisms  continue  to  increase. 

Remember  the  Lord  has  said,  ".  .  . 
the  voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto  all 
people,  by  the  mouths  of  my  dis- 
ciples, .  .  . 

"And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none 
shall  stay  them, . . ."  (D&G  1:4-5.) 

Our  missionaries  are  going  forth  and 
none  shall  stay  them.  Our  proselyting 
program  is  based  upon,  "every  member 
sharing  the  gospel  with  his  neighbor." 
Our  Prophet  David  O.  McKay  has 
counseled,  "Every  member  a  mission- 
ary." As  a  result  today,  many  thousands 
of  members  are  responding  by  living 
exemplary  lives;  by  asking  the  golden 
questions;  by  holding  group  meetings 
in  their  homes;  and  by  taking  their 
friends  and  neighbors  with  them  to  at- 
tend church  services  and  activities.  This 
type  of  sharing  is  "Every  Member  a 
Missionary"  in  action. 

At  this  conference  several  stake  presi- 
dents and  bishops  have  told  me  of  the 
group  meetings  they  are  holding  in  their 
homes  and  the  convert  baptisms  that 
are  resulting  therefrom.  As  we  leaders 
set  the  pattern,  every  member  will  be 
a  missionary.  And  each  member  should 
be  mindful  of  his  responsibilities  and 
opportunities  to  spread  the  gospel. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

I  love  and  support  our  great  prophet. 
He  is  indeed  one  of  the  great  mission- 
aries of  all  time. 

Yes,  the  purposes  of  the  Lord  are 
being  accomplished  today,  and  prophecy 
is  being  fulfilled.  The  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  is  being  poured  out  on  our  Father's 
children,  and  the  gospel  is  rolling  forth 
in  order  to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man. 

May  the  kingdom  of  God  continue  to 
go  forth  that  the  kingdom  of  heaven 
may  come,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Franklin  D.  Richards,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  has  just  addressed  us. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  will  now 
sing  "Come,  O  Thou  King  Of  Kings," 
conducted  by  Elder  Jay  E.  Welch. 

After  the  singing  Elder  Bernard  P. 
Brockbank  will  come  forward. 

The  congregation  joined  with  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"Come,  O  Thou  King  Of  Kings,"  with 
Jay  E.  Welch  conducting. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Bernard  P.  Brockbank,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  will  now  address  us. 

He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Gordon 
B.  Hinckley  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 


ELDER  BERNARD  P.  BROCKBANK 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Brothers  and  sisters,  it  is  a  humbling 
and  frightening  experience  to  be  in  this 
position  and  one  of  great  responsibility. 
We  have  so  many  interesting  things 
happen  to  us  these  days  that  we  little 
realize  some  of  the  great  circumstances 
we  find  ourselves  in. 

As  I  was  reflecting  just  a  moment 
ago,  I  think  two  of  the  greatest  mission- 
aries that  the  world  has  ever  known 
are  right  here  today — our  Prophet  David 
O.  McKay  and  our  Tabernacle  Choir. 
It  is  good  to  be  in  the  presence  of  good 


people.  I  am  going  to  take  just  a  mo- 
ment and  reflect  on  one  or  two  of  the 
simple  important  teachings  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

In  preaching  to  the  missionaries  many 
times  I  have  said  that  these  command- 
ments are  the  test  of  a  missionary.  I 
believe  also  they  are  the  test  of  a  Saint. 
The  Savior  had  the  ability  to  put  many 
volumes  and  many  sermons  into  few 
words,  and  we  find  ourselves  taking 
inventory  when  we  read  into  the  depth 
of  his  great  counsel.    These  command- 


ELDER  BERNARD 

ments  have  been  mentioned  many  times. 
You  are  well-acquainted  with  them. 

Jesus  said,  "But  I  say  unto  you,  Love 
your  enemies."  That's  not  just  so  many 
words,  you  know,  that's  a  responsibility 
placed  on  a  Saint.  Quite  often  if  we 
have  an  enemy,  "Well,  if  he  doesn't 
like  me  I  don't  like  him.  I  can  get 
along  without  him."  There  is  no 
Christianity  in  this  attitude.  When 
Christianity  is  shown,  it's  when  the 
individual  says,  "Well,  I  love  you  no 
matter  how  you  act  or  feel  toward  me." 
When  one  does  this,  the  tide  of  evil,  the 
tide  of  degeneration  is  stopped,  love 
takes  the  place  of  enmity.  Wouldn't 
it  be  great  if  we  were  all  Christians  with 
love  for  all  in  our  hearts;  there  would 
be  no  enmity. 

"Bless  them  that  curse  you."  Have 
you  ever  had  someone  curse  you,  and 
it  made  you  angry,  so  you  cursed  them 
back?  You  showed  them  how  to  curse. 
Satan  enjoys  that;  there's  no  Christianity 
in  cursing  back.  There's  a  responsibility 
if  someone  curses  you,  and  in  this 
Church  it  is  not  so  unusual  to  be  cursed 
or  spoken  against.  "Bless  them  that 
curse  you,"  a  responsibility  as  a  Chris- 
tian— a  follower  of  Jesus  Christ.  We 
must  bless  them  that  curse  us.  Wouldn't 
it  be  great  if  you  would  visit  and  bless 
them.  "God  bless  you,  I  want  you  to 
know  you  have  my  blessings."  Can  you 
see  the  tide  of  Christianity  turning  back 
the  evil  trend  of  cursing  among 
God's  children. 

It's  not  too  easy  to  be  a  Christian. 
I'm  only  on  one  verse  here  of  the 
Savior's  many  verses.  There  are  four 
commandments  in  one  verse.  (See 
Matt.  5:44.) 

"Do  good  to  them  that  hate  you." 
Do  we  always  practise  this  command- 
ment? Well,  it  is  not  easy.  "And  pray 
for  them  that  despitefully  use  you,  and 
persecute  you."  Did  the  Savior  practise 
this?  You  know,  to  be  a  Christian,  we 
must  follow  the  Savior.  It  is  easy  to 
hide  behind  Christianity,  but  it  is  not 
easy  to  be  a  Christian.  Let's  see  whether 
the  Savior  practised  what  he  taught. 

I'm  not  going  to  take  time  because 
the  time  is  very  short,  but  remember 
when  the  Savior  was  hanging  on  the 
cross,  his  accusers,  his  murderers  at  his 
feet;  he  could  have  said  something 


P.  BROCKBANK  125 

rather  severe  and  scolding,  but  no,  he 
practised  what  he  preached.  "Father  in 
heaven,  forgive  them."  (See  Luke  23:34.) 
He  prayed  for  those  who  persecuted 
him  and  bitterly  abused  him. 

I'm  going  to  turn  over  a  page  to 
hurry,  in  this  same  great  sermon.  "Enter 
ye  in  at  the  strait  gate:  for  wide  is  the 
gate,  and  broad  is  the  way,  that  leadeth 
to  destruction,  and  many  there  be 
which  go  in  thereat":  (Matt.  7:13.) 
It's  real  wide,  the  gate's  wide,  and  there 
is  a  great  multitude  headed  for  it  and 
many  there  be  which  go  in  thereat. 
These  are  the  words  of  the  Savior.  ".  .  . 
strait  is  the  gate,  and  narrow  is  the  way, 
which  leadeth  unto  life,  and  few  there 
be  that  find  it."  (Ibid.,  7:14.)  Not  many 
will  find  the  gate  to  heaven. 

"Beware  of  false  prophets,  which  come 
to  you  in  sheep's  clothing,  but  inwardly 
they  are  ravening  wolves."  (Ibid.,  7:15.) 
A  false  prophet  will  teach  false  doctrine. 
Any  false  teacher  is  in  that  category. 

Now  the  Savior  gives  us  many  won- 
derful keys  here.  "Ye  shall  know  them 
by  their  fruits.  Do  men  gather  grapes 
of  thorns,  or  figs  of  thistles?"  (Ibid., 
7:16.)  What  if  you  saw  figs  growing 
on  a  thistle?  You'd  know  they  were 
out  of  place,  wouldn't  you?  Grapes 
growing  on  thorns,  it's  just  as  obvious 
and  just  as  easy  to  tell  a  true  prophet 
as  it  is  to  tell  that  figs  are  out  of  place 
on  a  thistle  bush. 

Well,  a  God  without  body,  parts,  or 
passions,  uncreate — and  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  introducing  back  again  a 
God  with  body,  parts,  and  passions. 
Man  saying  the  Godhead  is  three  in 
one  and  one  in  three — most  difficult  to 
explain  and  understand.  Joseph  Smith 
restoring  the  knowledge  of  three  separ- 
ate Personages.  You  know  the  agnostic 
could  say  they  are  both  wrong,  but  it 
is  obvious  they  are  not  both  right.  It's 
as  obvious  as  a  fig  on  a  thistle  that  one 
is  opposite  the  other. 

Jesus  had  Twelve  Apostles — many 
churches  do  not  have  apostles.  Our 
message  is  not  a  difficult  one  to  deliver 
to  the  world  as  soon  as  we  can  prepare 
the  world  for  it.  Then  the  Lord  clari- 
fies this,  "Even  so  every  good  tree 
bringeth  forth  good  fruit;  but  a  corrupt 
tree  bringeth  forth  evil  fruit. 

"A  good  tree  cannot  bring  forth  evil 


126 

Sunday,  April  7 

fruit,  neither  can  a  corrupt  tree  bring 
forth  good  fruit."  {Ibid.,  7:17-18.) 
President  McKay  does  not  build  the 
kingdom  of  Satan,  he  builds  the  king- 
dom of  God.  He  teaches  the  same 
gospel  and  doctrines  that  Jesus  Christ 
and  the  apostles  taught. 

Our  prophet  has  asked  us  all  to  be 
missionaries — every  member  a  mission- 
ary. That's  the  way  to  build  this 
Church.  Wouldn't  it  be  great  if  all  two 
million  each  brought  one  soul  into  the 
Church.  How  many  of  you  brought 
one  new  member  into  the  Church  last 
year?  The  prophet  asked  us  to  do  it 
under  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  be- 
cause the  Lord  knows  how  to  build 
his  Church. 

What  if  it  meant  your  life  if  you  did 
not  bring  a  soul  in  this  coming  year? 
You'd  have  him  or  her,  wouldn't  you? 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

You'd  bring  your  soul  in.  This  is  just  a 
little  way  for  the  Lord  to  test  and  tell 
whether  we  love  our  neighbor  as  our- 
selves. We'd  do  pretty  nearly  anything 
to  save  and  preserve  our  own  lives. 

I  bear  witness  that  God  lives,  that 
David  O.  McKay  is  his  prophet  and 
mouthpiece.  It  is  good  to  be  in  your 
presence.  May  the  Lord  bless  each  one, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Bernard  P.  Brockbank,  one  of 
the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  has  just 
spoken  to  us.  He  is  just  recently  from 
Scotland,  that's  why  he  was  so  brief. 

Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  now  ad- 
dress us. 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  associates  in  the  work  of 
the  Lord.  Within  the  hour  all  who  are 
assembled  here  will  be  journeying  to 
their  homes.  I  am  reminded  in  this 
thought  of  an  experience  at  a  newsstand 
the  other  day.  I  walked  about  observing 
the  magazines.  I  was  intrigued  by  the 
number  of  those  devoted  to  the  restyling 
and  beautification  of  our  homes.  Done 
in  four-color  printing  on  good  paper, 
their  titles  alone  were  enough  to  excite 
the  imagination  in  the  direction  of  im- 
provement, and  their  contents  was  a 
most  compelling  display  of  suggestions 
on  how  to  dress  up  the  old  place  or 
plan  for  a  new  one. 

Then  my  eyes  drifted  to  the  news 
magazines.  Boldly  printed  on  the  cover 
of  one  of  these  was  a  shocking  question: 
"Will  city  streets  ever  be  safe  again?" 
Inside  I  read  a  provocative  interview 
between  the  editors  of  the  magazine 
and  the  president  of  the  International 
Association  of  Chiefs  of  Police,  Stanley 
R.  Schrotel  of  Cincinnati.  The  inter- 
view describes  what  we  have  read  so 
frequently  of  late — the  rising  tide  of 
assault,  robbery,  and  other  serious 
crimes  inflicted  on  unsuspecting  people 
by  criminals,  who,  for  the  most  part, 


are  young  men,  many  of  them  yet  in 
their  teens.  News  stories  indicate  that 
one  cannot  safely  walk  the  streets  of 
some  of  our  proudest  cities.  This  is 
not  only  in  the  United  States;  the  same 
problem  is  also  felt  across  the  world. 

I  quote  from  the  interview  with 
Chief  Schrotel: 

"Q.  Are  you  saying  that  parents  are 
to  blame,  really,  for  juvenile  delin- 
quency?" 

"A.  I'd  have  to  say  that  there  is  a 
woeful  need  today  for  greater  strength 
in  the  home,  greater  respect  for  parents 
as  the  authority  symbol,  and  more  pa- 
rental guidance." 

I  find  only  one  interpretation  of  this 
— serious  failure  in  the  homes  of  the 
people.  There  is  failure  in  cultivating 
those  virtues  which  lead  to  respect  for 
law,  respect  for  associates,  even  respect 
for  self. 

Other  symptoms,  less  dramatic,  but 
equally  far-reaching  in  their  conse- 
quences, are  found  in  the  rising  toll  of 
domestic  tragedies,  the  broken  homes, 
the  children  cast  adrift  from  the  ties 
that  should  give  security  and  stability 
to  their  lives.  Add  to  this  the  cases  of 
warped  integrity,  of  malfeasance,  of 


ELDER  GORDO 

dereliction  of  duty,  and  we  have  a 
sordid  and  miserable  picture. 

Paul  of  old  declared  to  Timothy: 
"This  know  also,  that  in  the  last  days 
perilous  times  shall  come."  He  said 
nothing  of  atomic  bombs  or  inter- 
continental missiles  or  death-dealing 
submarines. 

Rather,  they  shall  be  perilous  be- 
cause ".  .  .  men  shall  be  lovers  of  their 
own  selves, .  .  .  blasphemers,  disobedient 
to  parents,  unthankful,  .  .  . 

"Without  natural  affection,  .  .  . 
despisers  of  those  that  are  good,  .  .  ." 
(2  Timothy  3:1-3.) 

The  police  chief  lists  some  of  the 
things  he  would  do  to  curb  this  dis- 
tressing problem.  He  includes  stricter 
law  enforcement  and  more  prison 
sentences.  I  would  not  presume  to 
question  his  formula  as  an  expediency, 
but  I  think  it  is  not  a  basic  and  enduring 
solution.  The  tide  will  be  turned  only 
as  the  principles  governing  the  behavior 
of  the  people  are  altered. 

Honesty,  character,  integrity  do  not 
come  of  legislation  or  police  action. 
Only  as  we  build  back  into  the  fiber  of 
our  lives  the  virtues  which  are  the  es- 
sence of  true  civilization  will  the  pattern 
of  our  times  change.  That  building 
process  must  begin  in  the  homes  of  the 
people.  It  must  begin  with  recognition 
of  God  as  our  Eternal  Father,  of  our 
relationship  to  him  as  his  children, 
with  communication  with  him  in 
recognition  of  his  sovereign  position, 
and  in  supplication  for  his  guidance  in 
our  affairs. 

Prayer,  family  prayer  in  the  homes  of 
this  and  other  lands,  is  one  of  the 
simple  medicines  that  would  check  the 
dread  disease  that  has  eroded  the  fiber 
of  our  character.  It  is  as  simple  as 
sunshine  and  would  be  as  effective  in 
curing  our  malady.  We  could  not  ex- 
pect a  miracle  in  a  day,  but  in  a  genera- 
tion we  would  have  a  miracle. 

A  generation  or  two  ago  family 
prayer  in  the  homes  of  Christian  people 
throughout  the  world  was  as  much  a 
part  of  the  day's  activity  as  was  eating. 
As  that  practice  has  diminished,  our 
moral  decay  has  ensued. 

I  feel  satisfied  that  there  is  no  ade- 
quate substitute  for  the  morning  and 
evening  practice  of  kneeling  together — 


'  B.  HINCKLEY  127 

father,  mother,  and  children.  This, 
more  than  heavy  carpets,  more  than 
lovely  draperies,  more  than  cleverly 
balanced  color  schemes,  is  the  thing 
that  will  make  for  better  and  more 
beautiful  homes. 

There  is  something  in  the  very  pos- 
ture of  kneeling  that  contradicts  the 
attitudes  described  by  Paul:  proud,  ".  .  . 
heady,  highminded."  {Ibid.,  3:4.) 

There  is  something  in  the  very  prac- 
tice of  father  and  mother  and  children 
kneeling  together  that  evaporates  others 
of  those  qualities  he  described:  ".  .  .  dis- 
obedient to  parents,  .  .  . 

"Without  natural  affeotion,  .  .  ." 
(Ibid.,  3:2-3.) 

There  is  something  in  the  act  of  ad- 
dressing the  Deity  that  offsets  a 
tendency  toward  blasphemy  and  toward 
becoming  lovers  of  pleasure  more  than 
lovers  of  God. 

The  inclination  to  be  unholy,  as 
Paul  described  it,  to  be  unthankful,  is 
erased  as  together  the  family  thank  the 
Lord  for  life  and  peace  and  all  they 
have. 

The  scripture  declares:  "Thou  shalt 
thank  the  Lord  thy  God  in  all  things." 
(D&C  59:7.)  And  again:  ".  .  .  in  noth- 
ing doth  man  offend  God,  or  against 
none  is  his  wrath  kindled,  save  those 
who  confess  not  his  hand.  .  .  ." 
(Ibid.,  59:21.) 

In  remembering  together  before  the 
Lord  the  poor,  the  needy,  and  the  op- 
pressed, there  is  developed,  uncon- 
sciously but  realistically,  a  love  for 
others  above  self,  a  respect  for  others,  a 
desire  to  serve  the  needs  of  others. 
One  cannot  ask  God  to  help  a  neighbor 
in  distress  without  feeling  motivated  to 
do  something  oneself  toward  helping 
that  neighbor.  What  miracles  would 
happen  in  the  lives  of  the  children  of 
America,  and  of  the  world,  if  they 
would  lay  aside  their  own  selfishness 
and  lose  themselves  in  the  service  of 
others.  The  seed  from  which  this 
sheltering  and  fruitful  tree  may  grow  is 
best  planted  and  nurtured  in  the  daily 
supplications  of  the  family. 

I  know  of  no  better  way  to  inculcate 
love  for  country  than  for  parents  to  pray 
before  their  children  for  the  President 
and  the  Congress  or  the  Queen  and 


128 

Sunday,  April  7 

the  Parliament  of  the  land  of  their 
citizenship. 

Recently  I  have  seen  on  billboards  in 
some  of  our  cities  a  statement  which 
reads,  "A  nation  at  prayer  is  a  nation 
at  peace."  I  believe  this.  I  hope  this 
is  more  than  a  catchy  motto.  I  am 
satisfied  that  we  shall  not  have  peace 
unless  and  until  we  request  it  in  the 
name  of  the  Prince  of  Peace. 

I  know  of  nothing  that  will  ease 
family  tensions,  that  in  a  subtle  way 
will  bring  about  the  respect  for  parents 
which  leads  to  obedience,  that  will  affect 
the  spirit  of  repentance  which  will 
largely  erase  the  blight  of  broken  homes, 
than  will  praying  together,  confessing 
weaknesses  together  before  the  Lord, 
and  invoking  the  blessings  of  the  Lord 
upon  the  home  and  those  who  dwell 
there. 

I  have  been  impressed  by  a  state- 
ment made  by  a  man  long  since  dead, 
the  father  of  one  of  the  great  men  who 
sits  on  this  stand.  James  H.  Moyle 
wrote  to  his  grandchildren  concerning 
the  family  prayer  of  his  own  home.  He 
said:  "We  have  not  gone  to  bed  before 
kneeling  in  prayer  to  supplicate  divine 
guidance  and  approval.  Differences  may 
arise  in  the  best  governed  families,  but 
they  will  be  dissipated  by  the  .  .  .  spirit 
of  prayer.  ...  Its  very  psychology  tends 
to  promote  the  more  righteous  life 
among  men.  It  tends  to  unity,  love, 
forgiveness,  to  service." 

In  1872  Colonel  Thomas  L.  Kane,  the 
great  friend  of  our  people  in  the  days  of 
their  distress  in  Iowa  and  at  the  time 
of  the  coming  of  the  army  to  this  valley, 
came  west  again  with  his  wife  and  two 
sons.  They  traveled  to  St.  George  with 
Brigham  Young,  stopping  each  night 
in  the  homes  along  the  way.  Mrs.  Kane 
wrote  a  series  of  letters  to  her  father 
back  in  Philadelphia.  In  one  of  these 
she  said: 

"At  every  one  of  the  places  we  stayed 
on  this  journey  we  had  prayers  imme- 
diately after  the  dinner-supper,  and 
prayers  again  before  breakfast.  No  one 
was  excused  .  .  .  the  Mormons  .  .  . 
kneel  at  once,  while  the  head  of  the 
household,  or  an  honored  guest  prays 
aloud.  .  .  .  They  spend  very  little  time 
in  ascriptions,  but  ask  for  what  they 
need,  and  thank  Him  for  what  He  has 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

given.  .  .  .  (They)  take  it  for  granted 
that  God  knows  our  familiar  names 
and  titles,  and  will  ask  a  blessing  on  (a 
particular  individual  by  name),  ...  I 
liked  this  when  I  became  used  to  it." 

Oh,  that  we  as  a  people  might  culti- 
vate this  practice  which  was  of  such 
importance  to  our  pioneer  forebears. 
Family  prayer  was  as  much  a  part  of 
their  worship  as  were  the  meetings 
convened  in  this  tabernacle.  With  the 
faith  that  came  of  these  daily  invoca- 
tions, they  grubbed  the  sagebrush,  led 
the  waters  to  the  parched  soil,  made 
the  desert  blossom,  governed  their  fam- 
ilies in  love,  lived  in  peace  one  with 
another,  and  made  their  names  im- 
mortal as  they  lost  themselves  in  the 
service  of  God. 

We  have  reached  the  tragic  point  in 
our  history  where  evidently  we  cannot 
invoke  the  blessings  of  God  in  our 
schools,  but  we  can  pray  in  our  homes. 
The  family  is  the  unit  of  society.  The 
praying  family  is  the  hope  of  a  better 
society.  "Seek  ye  the  Lord  while  he 
may  be  found,  .  .  ."  (Isa.  55:6.) 

I  was  touched  last  fall  by  the  heart- 
breaking statement  of  a  young  man  in 
Japan.  He  said,  "I  have  been  here  for 
months.  I  can't  learn  the  language. 
I  dislike  the  people.  I  am  depressed 
by  day  and  weep  at  night.  I  wanted 
to  die.  I  wrote  my  mother  and  pleaded 
for  an  excuse  to  return  home.  I  have 
her  reply.  She  says:  'We're  praying  for 
you.  There  is  not  a  day  passes  that 
all  of  us  do  not  kneel  together  in  the 
morning  before  we  eat  and  in  the 
evening  before  we  retire  and  plead 
with  the  Lord  for  his  blessing  upon  you. 
We  have  added  fasting  to  our  prayer, 
and  when  your  younger  brothers  and 
sisters  pray  they  say,  "Heavenly  Father, 
bless  Johnny  in  Japan  and  help  him  to 
learn  the  language  and  do  the  work  he 
was  called  to  do. 

This  young  man  then  went  on  to 
say  through  his  tears,  "I  will  try  again. 
I  will  add  my  prayers  to  theirs  and  my 
fasting  to  their  fasting." 

Now,  four  months  later,  I  have  a 
letter  from  him  in  which  he  says,  "A 
miracle  has  happened.  The  language 
has  come  to  me  as  a  gift  from  the 
Lord.  I  have  learned  to  love  the  people 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


129 


in  this  beautiful  land.  God  be  thanked 
for  the  prayers  of  my  family." 

Can  we  make  our  homes  more  beauti- 
ful? Yes,  through  addressing  ourselves 
as  families  to  the  source  of  all  true 
beauty.  Can  we  strengthen  our  society 
and  make  it  a  better  place  in  which  to 
live?  Yes,  by  strengthening  the  virtue 
of  our  family  life  through  kneeling  to- 
gether and  supplicating  the  Almighty 
in  the  name  of  his  Beloved  Son. 

This  simple  practice,  a  return  to  fam- 
ily worship,  spreading  across  the  land 
and  over  the  earth,  would  in  a  genera- 
tion largely  lift  the  blight  that  is 
destroying  us,  and  it  would  restore  in- 


tegrity, mutual  respect,  and  a  spirit  of 
thankfulness  in  the  hearts  of  the  people. 
That  we  of  this  great  Church,  the 
kingdom  of  God,  may  be  faithful  in 
setting  an  example  before  the  world  in 
this  practice  and  in  encouraging  others 
to  do  likewise,  I  humbly  pray,  as  I 
leave  with  you  my  testimony  of  its 
virtue,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken 
to  us. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


Brethren  and  Sisters,  we  are  nearing  the 
end  of  another  great  conference.  I  am 
impressed  with  the  thought  that  every- 
one who  has  attended,  either  in  presence 
or  by  listening  in,  no  matter  where  he 
or  she  may  be,  must  leave  this  confer- 
ence with  a  greater  determination  to 
be  a  better  man  or  a  better  woman;  a 
better  citizen  of  the  town,  county,  or 
nation  than  he  or  she  has  ever  been 
before. 

Brother  Bernard  P.  Brockbank  has  just 
said  that  it  is  good  to  be  in  the  presence 
of  good  people.  He  gave  a  sermon  in 
that  sentence.  "It  is  good  to  be  in  the 
presence  of  good  people."  Every  man 
and  every  person  who  lives  in  this  world 
wields  an  influence,  whether  for  good  or 
for  evil.  It  is  not  what  he  says  alone, 
it  is  not  alone  what  he  does.  It  is  what 
he  is.  Every  man,  every  person  radiates 
what  he  or  she  is.  Every  person  is  a 
recipient  of  radiation.  The  Savior  was 
conscious  of  that.  Whenever  he  came 
into  the  presence  of  an  individual,  he 
sensed  that  radiation — whether  it  was 
the  woman  of  Samaria  with  her  past 
life;  whether  it  was  the  woman  who  was 
to  be  stoned  or  the  men  who  were  to 
stone  her;  whether  it  was  the  states- 
man, Nicodemus,  or  one  of  the  lepers. 
He  was  conscious  of  the  radiation  from 
the  individual.  And  to  a  degree  so  are 
you,  and  so  am  I.  It  is  what  we  are 
and  what  we  radiate  that  affects  the 
people  around  us. 


We  cannot  go  from  this  great  confer- 
ence without  an  added  responsibility 
to  contribute  to  a  better  life  around 
us.  As  individuals,  we  must  think 
nobler  thoughts.  We  must  not  encour- 
age vile  thoughts  or  low  aspirations. 
We  shall  radiate  them,  if  we  do.  If  we 
think  noble  thoughts,  if  we  encourage 
and  cherish  noble  aspirations,  there  will 
be  that  radiation  when  we  meet  people, 
especially  when  we  associate  with  them. 

That  is  true  of  the  individual.  It  is 
true  of  the  home,  as  we  have  heard  in 
this  conference  from  Brother  Gordon 
B.  Hinckley.  Our  homes  radiate  what 
we  are,  and  that  radiation  comes  from 
what  we  say  and  how  we  act  in  the 
home.  No  member  of  this  Church — 
husband,  father — has  the  right  to  utter 
an  oath  in  his  home  or  ever  to  express  a 
cross  word  to  his  wife  or  to  his  chil- 
dren. You  cannot  do  it  as  a  man  who 
holds  the  priesthood  and  be  true  to  the 
spirit  within  you  by  your  ordination 
and  your  responsibility.  You  have  to 
contribute  to  an  ideal  home  by  your 
character,  controlling  your  passion,  your 
temper,  guarding  your  speech,  because 
those  things  will  make  your  home  what 
it  is  and  what  it  will  radiate  to  the 
neighborhood. 

I  am  reminded  of  a  remark  made  by  a 
man  who  came  here  and  attended  the 
board  meeting  of  the  United  States 
Steel  Company  in  1946.  You  will  re- 
member— some  of  you  in  this  audience, 


130 

Sunday,  April  7 

some  of  you  General  Authorities  will 
remember — that  they  invited  us  to  at- 
tend a  dinner  of  that  board,  and  at  the 
conclusion  of  that  entertainment  the 
chairman,  the  master  of  ceremonies — I 
think  it  was  Mr.  Irving  S.  Olds — said: 
"Now  we  are  not  going  to  have  any 
set  speeches,  but  here  is  an  opportunity 
if  any  of  you  would  like  to  express 
yourselves." 

Mr.  Nathan  L.  Miller,  general  counsel 
for  that  board,  arose,  and  in  substance 
said,  "I  am  one  of  those  inquisitive, 
suspicious  New  Englanders,  and  I  have 
been  impressed  with  something  in  this 
city  that  seems  to  be  different  from  any 
other  city  I  have  ever  visited."  A  radia- 
tion! He  continued,  "I  walked  up  and 
down  Main  Street  and  watched  the  peo- 
ple. There  is  something  about  the 
city  which  is  different  from  any  other 
I  have  been  in.  I  tried  to  define  it 
and  wondered  what  it  was,  but  during 
an  interview  in  the  President's  office 
today  (President  George  Albert  Smith 
was  their  host  then,  and  the  board  had 
invited  him  that  morning)  I  think  I 
discovered  what  it  is."  President  George 
Albert  Smith  had  called  on  some  of  the 
brethren  to  speak  to  the  visitors  (United 
States  Steel  board  members),  who  were 
sitting  and  standing  around  the  First 
Presidency's  board  room  in  the  Church 
Administration  Building. 

He  said,  "I  listened  to  what  these  men 
said."  One  of  them  had  referred  to  the 
pioneers  and  the  spirit  of  the  pioneers; 
that  before  they  started  out  across  the 
plains  under  the  direction  of  President 
Young,  they  sought  divine  guidance 
first.  Second,  under  his  direction,  they 
were  prepared.  Every  man  would  carry 
a  gun  and  must  be  prepared  for  an 
attack  of  savages  or  any  other  possible 
emergency  that  might  come  to  the  pio- 
neers that  day.  And  third,  every  man 
must  take  just  as  much  care  of  his 
neighbor's  cattle  as  he  did  of  his  own. 
Worship,  Preparation,  Service! 

I  do  not  know  whether  it  was  that 
that  answered  this  gentleman's  curiosity 
or  not,  but  he  said,  "I  thought  in  that 
meeting  in  the  President's  office  I  de- 
tected what  there  is  in  the  city  which 
is  different — it  is  spirituality,"  said  he. 
"That's  it!  It  is  spirituality!  The  pio- 
neers had  it!   I  am  wondering  if  you 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

younger  men  (he  spoke  to  those  around 
him)  can  keep  that  spirituality  with  the 
installation  of  material  things  coming 
into  your  midst." 

He  was  referring  to  that  radiation  of 
the  group  which  we  all  feel.  I  repeat, 
every  individual  has  it.  Every  home 
radiates  it,  and  every  Latter-day  Saint 
home  should  have  it. 

A  father  visited  his  son's  new  home. 
The  son  was  proud  to  show  him  the 
new  bedroom,  the  new  installations  in 
the  kitchen.  After  they  were  through 
with  their  visit,  the  father  said,  "Yes, 
it  is  beautiful,  but  I  see  no  signs  of  God 
in  your  home."  And  the  son  said,  "I 
went  back,  and  as  I  looked  through  the 
rooms,  I  noticed  I  had  nothing  sugges- 
tive of  the  presence  of  the  Redeemer  or 
the  Savior." 

What  I  am  saying  is,  we  leave  this 
conference  today  with  greater  responsi- 
bility than  ever  before,  as  men  of  the 
priesthood,  as  women  of  the  Church, 
to  make  our  homes  such  as  will  radiate 
to  our  neighbors  harmony,  love,  com- 
munity duties,  loyalty.  Let  our  neigh- 
bors see  it  and  hear  it.  Never  must 
there  be  expressed  in  a  Latter-day  Saint 
home  an  oath,  a  condemnatory  term,  an 
expression  of  anger  or  jealousy  or  hatred. 
Control  it!  Do  not  express  it!  You  do 
what  you  can  to  produce  peace  and 
harmony,  no  matter  what  you  may 
suffer. 

The  Savior  set  us  the  example,  always 
calm,  always  controlled,  radiating  some- 
thing which  people  could  feel  as  they 
passed — the  woman  who  touched  his 
garment.  He  felt  something  go  from 
him,  that  radiation  which  is  divine. 

Each  individual  soul  has  it.  That  is 
you.  The  body  is  only  the  house  in 
which  you  live.  God  help  us  to  radiate 
strength,  control,  love,  charity,  which 
is  another  name  for  love,  consideration, 
best  wishes  for  all  human  beings. 

The  Church  is  reaching  out,  radiat- 
ing, not  only  by  bodies  and  meetings, 
but  now  through  the  kindness  of  the 
radio  owners,  television  owners,  we 
have  touched  them  from  the  center. 
Listen  to  the  people  up  in  Alaska:  "Our 
sincere  thanks  for  the  spiritual  uplift. 
Reception  excellent  at  both  ends  of  this 
far  north  stake.  Attendance  at  Anchor- 
age, 89.  Fifty  prayers  are  certainly  with 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


131 


you.  Alaska  Stake  President  (Lloyd  B. 
Owen)."  Fifty  prayers!  Why,  it  is  just 
radiating  throughout  the  whole  world. 

God  help  us  as  members  of  the  priest- 
hood and  as  members  of  the  Church 
to  radiate  faith  in  God,  love  of  human- 
ity, service  to  his  people  wherever  they 
are,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  express  appreciation  and  grati- 
tude for  all  who  have  in  any  way  con- 
tributed to  the  success  and  inspiration  of 
this  great  Conference.  We  are  grateful 
to  our  General  Authorities  who  de- 
livered such  inspirational  messages.  We 
appreciate  the  attention  given  by  local 
and  national  press  representatives,  and 
by  the  representatives  of  radio  and 
television  stations  in  reporting  the  ses- 
sions of  this  Conference. 

We  appreciate  the  cooperation  of  City 
Officials,  the  city  traffic  officers  in 
handling  carefully  and  ably  increased 
traffic,  etc.  How  well  they  handled  it 
last  evening  after  our  special  Priest- 
hood Meeting.  The  Fire  Department 
and  Red  Cross  have  been  on  hand  to 
render  assistance  and  service  whenever 
and  wherever  needed. 

We  are  grateful  for  what  our  Taber- 
nacle Ushers  do  in  rendering  quiet, 
efficient  service  in  seating  the  great 
audiences  of  this  Conference.  As  pre- 
viously mentioned,  we  are  most  grateful 
to  the  owners  and  managers  of  the 
many  radio  and  television  stations 
throughout  the  Nation  and  our  own 
City,  who  have  carried  the  sessions  of 
this  Conference  from  Coast  to  Coast,  to 
Alaska,  Hawaii,  Australia,  and  Canada; 
and  by  short  wave  to  countries  in  many 
parts  of  the  world.  This  extensive 
radio  and  television  coverage  has  given 
this  133rd  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  the  widest  dissemination  in  the 
history  of  the  Church.  We  thank 
Brother  Paul  Evans  who  has  watched 
over  the  broadcasting  facilities  here. 

We  are  thankful  and  grateful  to  the 
Lord  that  millions  have  been  given 
the  opportunity  to  tune  in  on  the  pro- 
ceedings of  this  General  Conference. 

Tonight  the  Deseret  Sunday  School 


Union  Conference  will  convene  in  this 
building  at  seven  o'clock.  All  Sunday 
School  workers  will  wish  to  be  in  at- 
tendance. The  public  is  cordially 
invited. 

Sacrament  meetings  will  be  held  this 
evening  in  the  various  wards. 

We  again  thank  our  members  and 
friends  who  furnished  these  beautiful 
flowers  to  decorate  the  Tabernacle  dur- 
ing this  Conference — the  daffodils  from 
Tacoma  Stake,  through  the  courtesy  of 
the  Puyallup  Valley  Daffodil  Festival, 
and  the  Calla  Lillies  from  the  High 
Priests'  Quorum  of  the  Oakland-Berke- 
ley Stake. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir — talk  about 
radiation — there  is  a  group  which 
radiates  throughout  the  entire  world. 
We  just  say  "thank  you,"  and  "thank 
you"  is  a  grateful  feeling  for  your  re- 
sponse. Some  of  you  have  been  here 
since  7:30  this  morning  and  perhaps 
7:00,  maybe  earlier.  In  behalf  of  all 
who  love  you  and  hear  you,  we  pray 
the  Lord  to  continue  to  bless  you  and 
your  officers,  your  leaders,  and  the 
organists.  God's  blessings  will  attend 
you  and  the  Church  for  your  service. 

The  Choir  will  sing  "All  Hail  The 
Power  of  Jesus'  Name,"  and  the  bene- 
diction will  be  offered  by  Elder  Thomas 
S.  Monson,  formerly  President  of  the 
Canadian  Mission,  after  which  this 
great  Conference  will  be  adjourned  for 
six  months. 


Singing  by  the  Choir,  "All  Hail  The 
Power  of  Jesus'  Name." 

Elder  Thomas  S.  Monson,  formerly 
President  of  the  Canadian  Mission,  of- 
fered the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


The  Logan  L.D.S.  Institute  of  Re- 
ligion Choir  furnished  the  music  for 
the  Friday  morning  and  afternoon  ses- 
sions. James  L.  Bradley  was  Conductor 
of  the  Choir  at  both  sessions. 

The  musical  numbers  for  the  Satur- 
day morning  and  also  the  Sunday 
morning  and  afternoon  sessions  were 
furnished  by  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Richard  P.  Condie,  Conductor, 
and  Jay  E.  Welch,  Assistant  Conductor. 

At  the  Saturday  afternoon  meeting  the 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  7 

Brigham  Young  University  Chorale 
furnished  the  choral  music,  with  Kurt 
Weinzinger,  Conductor. 

Saturday  evening,  April  6,  the  Boise 
Stake  "Mormonaires,"  with  C.  Winston 
Hansen,  Conductor,  furnished  the  choral 
numbers  for  the  General  Priesthood 
meeting. 

Richard  P.  Condie  directed  the  sing- 
ing of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  on  the 


Third  Day 

Church  of  the  Air  program  and  also  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast. 

Accompaniments  on  the  organ  were 
played  by  Alexander  Schreiner  and 
Frank  W.  Asper,  Tabernacle  Organists, 
and  Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant  Taber- 
nacle Organist. 

Joseph  Anderson 
Clerk  of  the  Conference 


133 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


Columbia  Broadcasting  System's 
Church  of  the  Air  was  presented  at 
7:35  a.m.  Sunday,  April  7,  1963.  The 
program  was  as  follows: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  di- 
rection of  Richard  P.  Condie,  furnished 
the  music  for  this  service.  Richard  L. 
Evans  was  the  announcer. 

Music:  Organ  and  humming  choir: 
"Sweet  Is  The  Work." 

Announcer:  The  Church  of  the  Air  is 
presented  by  CBS  Radio  so  that  repre- 
sentatives of  many  faiths  may  address 
a  nationwide  congregation.  Today's 
service,  presented  by  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  comes 
to  you  from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square,  through  the  facilities  of 
Station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 
Our  speaker  is  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner, 
member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles  of  the  Church.  Music  is  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  directed  by  Richard 
P.  Condie. 

From  the  music  of  Haydn,  the  Choir 
sings  a  worshipful  song  prefaced  by  the 
words  of  Jesus  the  Christ,  spoken  on 
the  cross,  "Father  forgive  them  for  they 


know  not  what  they  do." — "Lamb  of 
God,  surely  Thou  hast  borne  our  sor- 
rows; with  Thy  stripes  we  are  healed 
. .  ."—"Lamb  of  God." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Lamb  of  God." 
— Haydn.) 

Announcer:  A  resurrection  text  se- 
lected from  the  New  Testament  and 
sung  to  the  music  of  Franz  Joseph 
Haydn  is  recalled  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir:  "Hereby  perceive  we  the  love  of 
God,  that  He  laid  down  His  life  for 
us  ...  He  died  for  us  .  .  .  that  we 
should  live." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "He  Died  For  Us." 
— Haydn.) 

Announcer:  We  hear  now  on  this 
Church  of  the  Air  service  Elder  Nathan 
Eldon  Tanner,  eminent  industrial 
leader  from  western  Canada,  former 
Minister  of  Lands  and  Mines  of  the 
Province  of  Alberta,  and  a  member  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  frequently  referred  to  as  the 
Mormon  Church.  Today's  talk  is  titled 
"Keep  Faith  With  Your  Family." 


ELDER  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


It  is  with  a  feeling  of  humility  and  a 
prayer  in  my  heart  that  I  accept  this 
assignment  to  speak  to  you  at  this  time. 
I  have  chosen  as  my  subject,  "Keep 
Faith  With  Your  Family." 

As  a  school  teacher,  scoutmaster  and 
bishop,  and  as  I  have  traveled  from 
place  to  place  and  talked  to  different 
people,  I  find  that  many  are  worried 
about  their  children,  their  youth,  are 
criticizing  the  youth  of  other  families, 
blaming  all  kinds  of  conditions  for  their 
problems,  and  are  wondering  just  what 
can  be  done  or  should  be  done  to  im- 
prove these  conditions.  On  the  other 
hand,  I  find  many  of  our  youth  who  are 
frustrated,  who  would  really  like  to 
choose  and  do  the  right  and  be  accepted, 
but  who  wonder  just  what  it  is  all  about, 
and  what  is  important,  and  why  so  little 


emphasis  is  placed  on  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  It  is  true  that  nothing 
brings  greater  joy  and  satisfaction  and 
comfort  to  a  parent  than  to  see  a  child 
really  develop  into  an  honorable,  re- 
spected, righteous  citizen.  The  youth 
who  develops  into  that  kind  of  citizen 
is  loved,  respected  and  admired  by  all. 
How  can  this  be  accomplished? 

I  have  always  been  impressed  with 
the  admonition  of  Joshua  to  his  people 
when  he  said,  "Choose  you  this  day 
whom  ye  will  serve,  but  as  for  me 
and  my  house  we  will  serve  the  Lord." 
(Joshua  24:15.)  Then  we  have  the 
promise  made  by  the  Saviour  when  he 
said,  "Seek  ye  first  the  Kingdom  of 
God  and  his  righteousness  and  all  these 
things  shall  be  added  unto  you." 
(Matt  6:33.) 


134 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


The  other  day  I  reread  an  article  by 
J.  Edgar  Hoover  entitled  "Should  I 
Force  My  Child"  which  reads: 

"Shall  I  make  my  child  go  to  Sun- 
day School  and  Church?  Yes!  And 
with  no  further  discussion  about  the 
matter.  Startled?  Why?  How  do  you 
answer  Junior  when  he  comes  to  break- 
fast on  Monday  morning  and  announces 
to  you  that  he  is  not  going  to  school 
any  more?   You  know!  Junior  goes. 

"How  do  you  answer  when  Junior 
comes  in  very  much  besmudged  and 
says,  'I'm  not  going  to  take  a  bath.' 
Junior  bathes,  doesn't  he? 

"Why  all  this  timidity,  then,  in  the 
realm  of  his  spiritual  guidance  and 
growth?  Going  to  let  him  wait  and  de- 
cide what  Church  he'll  go  to  when 
he's  old  enough?  Quit  your  kidding! 
You  didn't  wait  until  you  were  old 
enough.  You  don't  wait  until  he  is  old 
enough  to  decide  whether  he  wants  to 
go  to  school  or  not  to  start  his  educa- 
tion. You  don't  wait  until  he  is  old 
enough  to  decide  whether  he  wants  to 
be  clean  or  dirty  do  you?  Do  you  wait 
until  he  is  old  enough  to  decide  if  he 
wants  to  take  his  medicine  when  he  is 
sick,  do  you? 

"What  shall  we  say  when  Junior  an- 
nounces he  doesn't  like  to  go  to  Sunday 
School  and  Church?  That's  an  easy 
one  to  answer.  Just  be  consistent.  Tell 
him,  'Junior,  in  our  house  we  all  go  to 
Church  and  to  Sunday  School,  and  that 
includes  you.'  Your  firmness  and  exam- 
ple will  furnish  a  bridge  over  which 
youthful  rebellion  may  travel  into  rich 
and  satisfying  experience  in  personal  re- 
ligious living.  The  parents  of  Amer- 
ica can  strike  a  telling  blow  against  the 
forces  that  contribute  to  our  juvenile 
delinquency,  if  our  mothers  and  fathers 
will  take  their  children  to  Sunday 
School  and  Church  regularly." 

In  my  opinion,  Mr.  Hoover  answers 
the  question  in  the  last  paragraph 
wherein  he  says,  "Tell  him,  in  our  house 
we  all  go  to  Sunday  School  and 
Church."  And  then  again  in  the  last 
sentence,  "The  parents  of  America 
can  strike  a  telling  blow  against  the 
forces  that  contribute  to  our  juvenile 
delinquency  if  our  mothers  and  fathers 
will  take  their  children  to  Sunday  School 


and  Church  regularly."  There  would  be 
no  need  of  forcing  our  children  to  attend 
Sunday  School  and  Church  if  we  as 
parents  attend  regularly,  because  that 
would  just  be  a  part  of  their  lives  and 
children  like  to  be  with  their  parents.  It 
is  difficult  for  children  to  understand 
why  they  should  go  to  Sunday  School 
or  Church  when  their  parents  feel  it 
is  more  important  or  more  interesting 
for  them  to  go  fishing  or  golfing.  Our 
Lord  and  Master  has  said,  "Thou  shalt 
go  to  the  house  of  prayer  and  offer  up 
thy  sacraments  upon  my  holy  day." 
(D&C  59:9.) 

I  thought  a  friend  of  mine  showed  a 
good  example  of  this  when  his  son  came 
to  him  and  said,  "Dad,  I  don't  want  to 
go  to  Church  today."  His  dad  replied, 
"My  son,  you  have  your  free  agency,  you 
better  hurry  and  get  your  coat  or  we'll 
be  late."  You  notice,  we'll  be  late — not 
you'll  be  late. 

How  fortunate  is  the  boy  or  girl  who 
lives  in  a  home  where  the  parents  be- 
lieve in  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  and 
his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  and  know  within 
their  hearts  that  the  Savior  came  and 
brought  the  Gospel  of  peace  and  good 
will  and  gave  the  plan  of  life  and  salva- 
tion whereby  all  mankind  may  be  saved; 
and  who  set  about  to  so  order  their  lives 
as  to  keep  his  commandments.  We  have 
been  admonished,  "Counsel  with  the 
Lord  in  all  thy  doings  and  he  will  direct 
thee  for  good."  To  join  with  the  family 
in  prayer  every  day,  and  to  talk  to  our 
Father  in  Heaven,  to  seek  his  blessing, 
and  express  our  gratitude,  will  have  a 
profound  influence  not  only  on  the  life 
of  the  child,  but  on  the  lives  of  the 
family  as  a  whole.  A  feeling  of  love, 
unity,  and  of  being  in  tune  will  be 
experienced  by  all.  Encourage  them  to 
go  privately  to  the  Lord  in  thanksgiving 
and  supplication. 

What  strength  and  courage  it  gives  a 
young  man  as  he  goes  out  into  the 
world  when  he  comes  from  a  home 
where  there  is  no  question  in  his  mind 
that  his  parents  feel  and  always  act  as 
Paul  when  he  says,  "I  am  not  ashamed 
of  the  Gospel  of  Christ  for  it  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation  to  every- 
one that  believeth."  (Romans  1:16) 
There  are  too  many  people  in  the  world 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


135 


today  who  are  like  the  chief  rulers  as 
recorded  in  these  words,  "Nevertheless, 
among  the  chief  rulers  also  many  be- 
lieved on  him,  but  because  of  the  Phari- 
sees they  did  not  confess  him  lest  they 
should  be  put  out  of  the  synagogue  for 
they  loved  the  praise  of  men  more  than 
they  loved  the  praise  of  God."  (John 
12:42-43.) 

Great  doubt  is  raised  in  the  mind 
of  a  child  whose  parents  profess  one 
thing  and  do  another;  where  they 
profess  to  be  Christians  and  believe 
in  God,  but  do  nothing  about  it.  As 
Elijah  came  unto  all  the  people  and 
said,  "How  long  halt  ye  between  two 
opinions.  If  the  Lord  be  God,  follow 
him;  but  if  Baal,  then  follow  him." 
(I  Kings  18:21.)  The  Lord  has  said, 
"If  you  love  me  you  will  keep  my  com- 
mandments." (John  14:15.) 

Every  day  is  full  of  choices.  Our 
choices  today  determine  our  future  and 
the  future  of  our  children.  Such  little 
questions  as:  Will  I  be  honest?  Will  I 
keep  my  pledge  or  committment  or 
promise?  Will  I  prove  dependable? 
Will  I  go  to  Church  or  will  I  go  fish- 
ing? We  cannot  be  nearly  dependable, 
we  cannot  be  reasonably  honest,  we 
cannot  be  diligent  sometimes,  we  can- 
not nearly  catch  a  plane  and  be  where 
or  what  we  wish  to  be. 

Let  us  always  remember  and  deter- 
mine that  the  things  which  matter  most 
must  not  be  at  the  mercy  of  things 
which  matter  least.  First,  we  must 
choose  what  we  want  out  of  life,  and 
then  if  we  wish  to  achieve  it,  we  must 
abide  by  the  rules  whether  it  be  to  gain 
a  university  degree,  to  become  an 
American  citizen  or  to  reach  the  Celes- 
tial Kingdom. 

As  one  of  our  poets  wrote  so  well : 

"Know  this,  that  every  soul  is  free 

To  choose  his  life  and  what  he'll  be; 

For  this  eternal  truth  is  given 

That  God  will  force  no  man  to  heaven. 

"He'll  call,  persuade,  direct  aright 
And  bless  with  wisdom,  love,  and  light; 
In  nameless  ways  be  good  and  kind 
But  never  force  the  human  mind. 

"Freedom  and  reason  make  us  men 
Take  this  away  and  what  are  we  then 


Mere  animals,  and  just  as  well 

The  beasts  may  think  of  heaven  or  hell." 

Let  each  of  us  check  and  determine 
whether  our  innermost  thoughts  are 
holding  us  on  the  animal  plane  or 
whether  they  tend  to  lift  us  into  the 
mental,  moral,  and  spiritual  realm.  We 
become  slaves  as  we  break  the  laws  of 
nature,  as  we  become  addicted  to  bad 
habits,  or,  we  remain  free  as  we  choose 
the  right.  The  Lord  has  said,  "Thou 
shalt  have  no  other  Gods  before  me." 
(Ex.  20:3.)  Some  have  as  their  Gods 
money,  political  power,  fame,  false 
ideologies,  idols,  and  even  unknown 
Gods.  Two  or  three  years  ago,  while 
traveling  with  Lord  Rowallan,  Chief 
Scout  of  the  British  Commonwealth,  I 
was  thrilled  with  his  comment  as  he 
led  in  the  Scout  promise.  As  he  said, 
"On  my  honor  I  promise  to  do  my  duty 
to  God,"  he  stopped  and  said  to  the 
Scouters  who  were  present,  "As  I  make 
this  promise  I  think  of  a  God  who  can 
hear  and  answer  prayers,  who  is  inter- 
ested in  what  we  are  doing,  and  who 
will  guide  us  and  bless  us  according  to 
our  needs  and  our  faith."  And  then  he 
said,  "If  any  of  you  do  not  believe  in 
such  a  God,  you  can  serve  better  some 
place  else."  "For  God  so  loved  the 
world  that  he  gave  his  only  begotten  son 
that  whosoever  believeth  in  him  shall 
not  perish  but  have  everlasting  life." 
(John  3:16.) 

Selfishness,  murder,  hatred,  and  con- 
quest are  rampant  throughout  the  so- 
called  civilized  world  today.  If  each 
and  every  man  could  say  and  do  as 
Joshua  admonished,  "as  for  me  and  my 
house  we  will  serve  the  Lord,"  and 
keep  his  commandments,  we  would  have 
peace  in  the  world.  Yes,  if  the  people 
in  the  world  would  today  "love"  God 
and  keep  his  commandments,  we  would 
have  peace  overnight.  As  someone  has 
so  aptly  said,  "Righteousness  in  the  in- 
dividual makes  for  harmony  in  the 
home,  harmony  in  the  home  makes  for 
order  in  the  nation,  and  order  in  the 
nation  results  in  peace  in  the  world." 

It  would  be  most  helpful  if  parents 
would  sit  down  with  the  whole  family 
and  discuss  what  they  want  out  of  life, 
what  they  want  to  accomplish,  and 
how  they  can  help  one  another  in  doing 


136 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


it.  After  this  decision  is  made,  it  will 
be  necessary  for  all  of  them  to  answer 
the  questions:  Is  it  worth  the  effort,  or 
am  I  prepared  to  do  my  part?  Can.  I 
discipline  myself,  or  have  I  the  will 
power?  Then,  each  and  every  one  must 
make  up  his  mind,  accept  his  obliga- 
tions, and  go  forward  with  determina- 
tion realizing  that  it  will  bring  the 
greatest  joy  and  satisfaction  and  success 
in  life.  When  one  begins  to  rationalize, 
or  try  to  explain  why  he  does  this  or 
that  which  he  knows  is  wrong,  he  is 
actually  bringing  his  ideals  down  to  his 
actions.  Where,  on  the  other  hand,  if 
one  repents  and  sets  about  to  improve 
himself  and  keep  the  commandments, 
he  is  raising  his  standards  or  his  actions 
up  to  his  ideals. 

What  a  marvelous  thing  it  would  be 
if  we  and  our  children  could  learn  early 
in  life  the  joy  and  satisfaction  that 
comes  from  living  good,  clean,  honest, 
and  upright  lives  all  the  time  and  that 
there  is  no  joy  or  satisfaction  in  sin. 
It  is  so  important  that  we  all  try  to 
enjoy  living  and  that  our  young  people 
have  a  good  time.  However,  this  good 
time  should  be  such  that  in  the  future, 
whether  it  be  a  month,  a  year,  or  ten 
years  from  now  they  can  always  look 
back  on  this  as  "a  good  time,"  realizing 
that  a  man  of  honor  does  not  change 
his  code  of  honor  with  passing  circum- 
stances. The  greatest  joy  and  happiness 
one  can  get  out  of  living  is  to  know 
that  he  has  done  and  is  doing  right, 
and  to  be  in  the  service  of  the  Lord. 

We  have  the  old  commandment, 
"Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother  that 
thy  days  may  be  long  upon  the  land 
which  the  Lord  thy  God  giveth  thee." 
Children  should  be  taught  and  trained 
to  honor  their  father  and  their  mother. 
Their  parents  gave  them  life  and  cared 
for  them  when  they  could  not  care  for 
themselves.  Every  child  of  every  age 
should  love  and  honor  his  parents.  It 
is  much  easier,  however,  for  children 
to  do  this  if  the  parents  live  worthy  of 
the  honor  of  their  children  and  are  al- 
ways an  example  to  them,  where  they 
wield  a  real  influence  for  good  in  their 
lives. 

There  is  no  responsibility  greater  than 
that  of  teaching  and  training  a  child 


to  be  an  honest,  honorable,  and  right- 
eous citizen;  and  there  is  no  stronger, 
more  effective  way  of  doing  it  than  for 
the  parent  to  be  what  he  would  like  his 
son  to  be.  What  a  great  day  it  will  be 
for  the  world  and  the  Church  when 
every  father  and  son  will  do  and  be 
what  he  would  like  the  other  to  think 
he  is.  In  other  words,  father  should 
always  try  to  put  himself  in  the  posi- 
tion where  he  would  be  glad  to  have  his 
son  say,  "I  do  nothing  save  that  which 
I  have  seen  my  father  do."  It  is  the 
manner  of  our  living  and  not  the  words 
we  use  to  explain  it  that  makes  up  the 
moral  fiber  of  the  children  God  has 
given  to  us.  We  should  never  be  sur- 
prised if  our  children  grow  up  to  be 
like  us.  Therefore,  we  must  take  the 
time  to  be  the  kind  of  people  we  would 
like  our  children  to  be.  It  is  so  im- 
portant that  the  rush  of  the  world  and 
the  pressure  of  business  do  not  make 
fathers  and  sons  strangers.  When  we 
say  with  a  shrug  of  the  shoulder,  "Boys 
will  be  boys,"  maybe  we  should  remem- 
ber that  boys  will  soon  be  men  and 
set  about  to  help  make  them  men.  There 
is  a  point  at  which  sympathy  becomes 
coddling  and  kindness  becomes  indul- 
gence and  they  who  are  too  busy,  too 
lazy,  or  too  softhearted  to  give  children 
the  example  and  discipline  they  need 
are  being  unfair  to  everyone  and  par- 
ticularly to  the  children.  It  is  most 
difficult  for  parents  to  discipline  their 
children  and  expect  them  to  do  those 
things  which  are  not  important  enough 
for  parents  to  do  themselves. 

We  are  all  the  children  of  God  and 
he  wants  us  to  succeed  and  stands  ready 
to  answer  a  call.  Let  us  never  forget 
that  the  Lord  has  said,  "This  is  my  work 
and  my  glory  to  bring  to  pass  the  im- 
mortality and  eternal  life  of  man." 
(Moses  1:39)  Satan  has  pledged  himself 
to  destroy  man.  We  should  always 
thank  our  Heavenly  Father  that  Satan 
cannot  force  us  to  do  wrong;  and  also, 
realize  and  be  thankful  for  the  fact  that 
the  Lord  will  not  force  us  to  do  right. 
We  have  our  free  agency  and  we  can 
choose  to  do  right  or  wrong,  to  be  a 
failure  or  success,  to  serve  the  Lord 
or  Baal. 

Let  us  not  forget  that  a  young  man 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


137 


or  a  young  woman  of  character,  in- 
dustry, faith,  intelligence  and  loyalty 
will  always  be  at  a  premium  and  will 
always  be  able  to  find  a  place  or  make 
one  when  he  can  truthfully  say,  "As  for 
me  and  my  house  we  will  serve  the 
Lord"  and  truly  seek  first  the  Kingdom 
of  God  and  his  righteousness,  knowing 
that  all  things  for  his  good  will  be 
added  unto  him. 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Gethsemane." — 
Welch.) 

Announcer:  We  have  heard  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir  sing  "Gethsemane,"  by 
Jay  E.  Welch  and  Elaine  Ellsworth 
Naylor.  "For  us  the  greatest  life  was 
giv'n  away.  Have  we  returned  His  love? 
His  favor  kept?  It  was  for  us  upon  that 
long  dark  day.  The  Man  who  bore  our 
sorrows  knelt  and  wept." 

And  now  the  music  of  George  Careless 
recalls  a  hymn  by  Henry  W.  Naisbitt: 
"Rest,  Rest,  for  the  weary  soul.  Rest  for 
the  race  is  run;  Peace,  Peace,  where  no 
strife  intrudes;  peace  where  no  quarrels 
come;  Peace  till  the  resurrection  morn 


proclaims  life's  victories  won."  "Rest, 
Rest,  For  The  Weary  Soul." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Rest,  Rest  For  The 
Weary  Soul." — Careless.) 

Announcer:  And  now  on  this  Church 
of  the  Air  Service  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
sings  a  hymn  tune  by  George  Careless 
which  takes  its  title  from  the  words  of 
Isaac  Watts:  "He  Died!  The  Great 
Redeemer  Died.  .  .  ." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "He  Died,  The 
Great  Redeemer  Died." — Careless.) 

Announcer:  You  have  been  attending 
CBS  Radio's  Church  of  the  Air.  To- 
day's service  came  to  you  from  the 
Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square, 
through  the  facilities  of  Station  KSL  in 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  Our  speaker  was 
Nathan  Eldon  Tanner,  eminent  indus- 
trial leader  from  western  Canada, 
former  Minister  of  Lands  and  Mines  of 
the  Province  of  Alberta,  and  a  member 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  Music  was  by  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir,  directed  by  Richard  P. 
Condie. 


SALT  LAKE  MORMON 
TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  was  presented  from  9:35  to 
10:00  a.m.  Sunday,  April  7,  1963, 
through  the  courtesy  of  Columbia 
Broadcasting  System's  network,  through- 
out the  United  States,  parts  of  Canada, 
and  through  other  facilities  to  several 
points  overseas.  The  broadcast  was  as 
follows': 

(The  organ  played,  "As  The  Dew 
From  Heaven  Distilling,"  and  on  signal 
the  Choir  and  organ  broke  into  the 
Hymn,  "Gently  Raise  The  Sacred 
Strain,"  singing  the  words  to  the  end 
of  the  second  line,  and  humming  to  end 
of  verse  for  announcer's  background.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  within  these  walls  with  music  and 
the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  and  its  affili- 


ated stations  bring  you  at  this  hour 
another  presentation  from  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with  Richard 
P.  Condie  conducting  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Frank  Asper,  Tabernacle  Organ- 
ist, and  the  spoken  word  by  Richard 
Evans. 

On  this  day,  and  at  this  hour,  and  in 
a  setting  by  Lewis  D.  Edwards,  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  recalls  the  witness  of 
these  wonderful  words:  "I  Know  That 
My  Redeemer  Lives." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "I  Know  That  My 
Redeemer  Lives." — Edwards.) 

Announcer:  Frank  Asper  presents  to- 
day on  Temple  Square  the  "Prayer  from 
the  Gothique  Suite"  by  Boellmann. 

(Organ  Selection:  "Prayer  from  Suite 
Gothique." — Boellmann. ) 

Announcer:  And  now  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  selects  a  moving,  pleading,  sacred 
song  by  Franz  Joseph  Schuetky:  "Send 
forth  thy  Spirit,  O  Lord,  our  God  eter- 


138 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


nal  and  let  the  face  of  earth  be 
renewed." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Send  Forth  Thy 
Spirit."— Schuetky.) 

Announcer:  The  responsibility  of 
teaching  and  learning  is  always  a  sub- 
ject for  earnest  consideration  because 
children,  and  all  of  us,  are  likely  to  live 
our  lives  along  the  lines  of  what  we 
learn.  And  along  with  the  teaching  of 
subjects  there  is  always  the  teaching 
of  self;  along  with  facts  presented,  there 
is  always  the  example,  the  attitude,  the 
innuendo,  the  personal  impression. 
"That  which  we  are,"  observed  Emer- 
son, "we  are  all  the  while  teaching, 
not  voluntarily,  but  involuntarily."1 
But  merely  because  there  are  hazards 
in  learning,  we  should  not  cease  to 
learn.  "The  dangers  of  knowledge," 
said  Richard  Whately,  "are  not  to  be 
compared  with  the  dangers  of  ignor- 
ance."2 "Fullness  of  knowledge,"  wrote 
Robert  Millikan,  "always  and  necessar- 
ily means  some  understanding  of  the 
depths  of  our  ignorance,  and  that  is 
always  conducive  to  both  humility  and 
reverence."3  These  are  great  qualities 
both  of  teacher  and  student — humility 
and  reverence.  Conceited,  self-assured 
learning,  irreverent  learning,  is  always 
to  be  called  into  question.  "I  have  no 
patience,"  said  Paul  Swain  Havens, 
"with  the  intellectual  bomb-thrower 
who  delights  in  blasting  his  students' 
beliefs.  Like  every  bomb-thrower  he 
destroys  the  good  with  the  bad.  That 
is  not  the  method  by  which  to  arouse 
an  unawakened  mind.  It  only  sears 
and  maims  and  destroys;  and  on  the  day 
of  judgment  its  practitioners  will  be 
held  guilty  of  blasphemy  and  of  mis- 
leading the  young:  two  of  the  most 
grievous  charges  for  which  a  man  can 
be  held  accountable."4  "Without  char- 
acter," said  David  Starr  Jordan,  without 
"devoted,  rugged,  strength  of  soul,  no 
man  has  a  right  to  teach.  .  .  .  The  great 
teacher  never  fails  to  leave  a  great  mark 
on  young  men  and  women.  .  .  .  And 
this  mark  of  greatness  in  its  last  analysis 


iRalph  Waldo  Emerson. 

^Richard  Whately  (1787-1863),  Archbishop  of  Dublin. 
^Robert  A.  Millikan  (1868-1953),  Am.  physicist. 
4Paul  Swain  Havens,  Pres.,  Wilson  College:  The 
True  Education  and  the  Fake. 


is  always  a  moral  one.  There  is  no 
real  excellence  in  all  this  world  which 
can  be  separated  from  right  living."5 
These  citations  suggest  the  real  respon- 
sibility of  teaching;  in  any  way,  by  any 
of  us;  by  word,  by  example,  by  attitude 
or  action;  by  any  means  that  shapes  or 
leads  men's  minds.  We — all  of  us — in- 
sofar as  we  have  any  influence  on  others, 
have  a  sacred  and  sobering  responsibility 
to  the  Lord  God,  to  whom  we  are  ac- 
countable for  our  trust  as  teachers.  And 
the  first  influence  of  all,  on  which  there 
is  a  divinely  imposed  obligation,  is  the 
home,  the  parents,  the  learning  with 
loved  ones.  "I  have  commanded  you," 
said  our  Father,  "to  bring  up  your 
children  in  light  and  truth."6 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Awake  The  Harp." 
— Haydn.) 

Announcer:  We  have  heard  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir  recall  a  theme  from  The 
Creation  by  Haydn  with  an  earnest 
thankful  utterance  for  the  beauty  of  the 
earth:  ".  .  .  and  for  all  that  God  has 
given:  Awake  The  Harp,  and  let  your 
joyful  song  resound.  Rejoice  in  the 
Lord,  and  mighty  God,  for  He  both 
heaven  and  earth  hath  clothed  in  stately 
dress."  "Awake  The  Harp." 

And  now  with  Frank  Asper  at  the 
Tabernacle  organ  we  hear  a  sacramental 
song  by  Thomas  Mclntyre:  "How  Great 
the  Wisdom  and  the  Love  That  filled 
the  courts  on  high  And  sent  the  Savior 
from  above  To  suffer,  bleed,  and  die!" 

Organ  Selection:  "How  Great  The 
Wisdom  and  the  Love." — Mclntyre.) 

Announcer:  We  close  today  from 
Temple  Square  with  the  moving  music 
of  Henry  Holden  Huss,  and  the  stirring 
assuring  words  of  Alfred  Tennyson  in  a 
song  of  man's  immortality,  and  of  his 
meeting  with  his  Lord  and  Master  and 
to  an  event  inevitable  for  us  all:  "For 
tho'  from  out  our  bourne  of  time  and 
place,  the  flood  may  bear  me  far!  I 
hope  to  see  my  Pilot  face  to  face  when 
I  have  crossed  the  bar." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Crossing  the  Bar." 
— Huss.) 

GDavid   Starr   Jordan,    Pres.,   Leland    StAiford  Jr. 
University:   The  University  and  the  Common  Man. 
"Doctrine  and  Covenants  93:40. 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


139 


Announcer:  Again  we  leave  you  with- 
in the  shadows  of  the  everlasting  hills. 
May  peace  be  with  you,  this  day — and 
always. 

This  concludes  the  seventeen  hundred 
and  fifty-fifth  presentation,  and  contin- 
ues the  34th  year  of  this  traditional 
broadcast  from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle 
on  Temple  Square,  brought  to  you  by 
CBS  Radio  and  its  affiliated  stations, 


originating  with  Radio  Station  KSL  in 
Salt  Lake  City. 

Richard  P.  Condie  conducted  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir.  Frank  Asper  was  at  the 
organ.  The  spoken  word  by  Richard 
Evans. 

In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 
hour,  music  and  the  spoken  word  will 
be  heard  again  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 


Index 


Page 

Adams,  Elder  Orval  W   59 

Anderson,  Elder  Joseph,  Clerk  of  the  Conference   1,  57,  132 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present    1 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained   59 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft   109 

Brockbank,  Elder  Bernard  P  124 

Brown,  President  Hugh  B   5 

Brown,  President  Hugh  B   89 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Brown,  Bishop  Victor  L   71 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast   137 

Christiansen,  Elder  EIRay  L   68 

Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast  133 

Church  Finance  Committee  Report   59 

Critchlow,  Elder  William  J.,  Jr   30 

Dyer,  Elder  Alvin  R   48 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   22 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L.,  Announcer  133 

(Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast) 
Evans,  Elder  Richard  L  137 

(Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast) 

Finance  Committee  Report    59 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting    3 

First  Day— Afternoon  Meeting    20 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Present   1 

General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers  Sustained   59 

General  Priesthood  Meeting    79 

Hinckley,  Elder  Gordon  B  126 

Hunter,  Elder  Howard  W  104 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  R   14 

Isaacson,  Elder  Thorpe  B   10 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   13 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W.    62 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B   79 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Longden,  Elder  John   23 

McKay,  President  David  0   94 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 
McKay,  President  David  0   96 

(Sunday  Morning  Address) 
McKay,  President  David  O  _  129 

(Closing  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  0  3,  5,  9,  13,  14,  18,  19,  20,  21,  23,  25,  26,  27, 

30,  33,  38,  39,  40,  43,  48,  52,  55,  56,  57,  59,  62, 
68,  70,  73,  74,  78,  79,  89,  92,  94,  95,  96,  99,  104, 
106,  109,  114,  115,  119,  121,  124,  126,  129,  131. 


142 


INDEX 


Page 


Moyle,  President  Henry  D   44 

Moyle,  President  Henry  D   59 

(Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers) 
Moyle,  President  Henry  D   92 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Obituaries    58 

Packer,  Elder  Boyd  K  106 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers    59 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General    79 

Richards,  Elder  Franklin  D  122 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand   115 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G  74 

Salt  Lake  Mormon  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast   137 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting    39 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    56 

Sill,  Elder  Sterling  W   40 

Simpson,  Bishop  Robert  L   52 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G  _   18 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding   21 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma   _   25 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L  _   33 

Statistical  Report    57 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers   59 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast   _  137 

Tanner,  Elder  Nathan  Eldon    99 

Tanner,  Elder  Nathan  Eldon   _  133 

(Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast) 

Taylor,  Elder  Henry  D  119 

Third  Day — Morning  Meeting    96 

Third — Afternoon  Meeting   _  114 

Vandenberg,  Bishop  John  H   27 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth    73 


Printed  by 


DESERfT    |1EWS  PRESS 


in  the  United  States  of  America 


