ffrx?^^^         -^y  ■^•^     •^•^■^•^'■^■^  ^^NjJTJ  '/] 


Sixty-Ninth 


Annual  Conference 


OF  THE 


CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST  OF 
LATTER-DAY  SAINTS, 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  April  6th,  7th  and 
9th,  1899,  with  a  Full  Report  of  the  Discourses. 


ALSO  AN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 
OF  THE  DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL 
UNION. 


THE  DESERET  NEWS. 
1899. 


General  Conference 


THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 


FIRST  DAY 


The  Sixty-ninth  Annual  Conference 
■of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  convened,  in  the  Taber- 
nacle, at  10  a.  m.  today,  Thursday, 
April  6,  1899,  President  Lorenzo  Snow 
presiding-. 

Of  the  general  authorities  present 
there  were,  of  the  First  Presidency: 
Lorenzo  Snow,  George  Q.  Cannon  and 
Joseph  F.  Smith;  of  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles — Franklin  D.  Richards, 
Brigham  Young,  Francis  M.  Lyman, 
John  Henry  Smith,  George  Teasdale, 
Heber  J.  Grant,  John  W.  Taylor,  Mar- 
riner  W.  Merrill,  Anthon  H.  Lund, 
Matthias  F.  Cowley,  Abraham  Owen 
Woodruff  and  Rudger  Clawson;  Patri- 
arch John  Smith;  of  the  First  Seven 
Presidents  of  Seventies— Seymour  B. 
Young,  C.  D.  Fjelsted,  B.  H.  Roberts, 
George  Reynolds,  Jonathan  G.  Kimball, 
Rulon  S.  "Wells  and  Joseph  W.  McMur- 
rin;  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  Wil- 
liam B.  Preston,  Robert  T.  Burton  and 
John  R.  Winder. 

Considering  the  fact  that  this  was 
the  first  meeting,  the  attendance  was 
quite  large. 

Conference  was  called  to  order  by 
President  George  Q.  Cannon. 

Singing  by  the  choir  and  congrega- 
tion: 

•Come  let  us  anew  our  journey  pursue, 
Roll  round  with  the  year, 
And  never  stand  still  till  the  Master 
appear. 


Opening  prayer  by  Elder  Seymour  B. 
Young. 
The  choir  sang: 

Behold,  the  mountain  of  the  Lord 

In  latter  days  shall  rise, 
On  mountain  tops,  above  the  hills, 

And  draw  the  wond'ring  eyes. 

PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 

OPENING  ADDRESS. 

Brethren  and  sisters  and  friends: 
There  are  many  reflections  that  arise 
in  my  mind  as  I  behold  the  faces  of  so 
many  Latter-day  Saints  here  this 
morning.  Sixty-nine  years  ago  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  was  organized.  How  many 
strange  scenes  have  been  witnessed 
and  what  wonderful  things  have  been 
acomplished  by  the  Latter-day  Saints 
since  the  organization!  Prophets 
and  Elders  have  been  martyred  while 
defending  the  great  cause  which  God 
established  in  the  interersts  of  the  sal- 
vation, exaltation  and  glory  of  His 
children  whom  He  has  sent  upon  the 
earth. 

This  is  a  lovely  morning.  All  na- 
ture seems  to  smile  upon  us.  I  would 
like  to  ask  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
how  do  you  feel?  Do  we  all  feel  to 
rejoice  in  our  hearts  and  to  be  happy? 
In  view  of  what  has  been  accomplished, 
do  we  feel  grateful  to  our  Heavenly 
Father?  Think  of  the  persecutions 
through  which  the  Saints  have  passed 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  the  sacrifices  we  have  made  from 
time  to  time,  and  yet  we  are  here  this 
morning:  surrounded  by  pleasant  con- 
ditions. Then,  what  are  the  glorious 
prospects  before  us?  After  a  few 
years,  whatever  may  have  been  our  ex- 
perience, we  shall  stand  in  the  pres- 
ence of  our  Father  in  the  future  life, 
having  accomplished  His  purposes 
while  in  the  world,  having-  made  sacri- 
fices in  fulfilling  that  which  the  Lord 
has  required  at  our  hands  from  time 
to  time,  and  we  shall  look  back  upon 
the  past  with  joy  and  satisfaction. 
How  happy  we  ought  to  be  under 
present  circumstances,  in  view  of  what 
we  have  done  since  we  received  the 
Gospel,  and  how  we  have  been  sus- 
tained, while  some  upon  our  right  hand 
and  upon  our  left  have  fallen 
into  a  state  of  apostasy.  Contemplat- 
ing the  past  and  glorious  prospects 
of  the  future,  our  hearts  ought  to  be 
filled  with  joy  and  thanksgiving  to  our 
God  this  day. 

We  wish  to  have  a  good  Conference, 
and  we  will.  Just  in  proportion  as  we 
exercise  our  faith  during  the  progress 
of  this  Conference,  so  will  the  blessings 
of  the  Almighty  rest  upon  us;  and  as 
the  speakers  address  us  from  day  to 
day  we  will  secure  that  which  will  be 
of  vast  importance  to  us.  It  is  not 
always  the  lengthy  discourse  that  af- 
fords to  the  Latter-day  Saints  that 
which  is  the  most  profitable;  but  in  the 
various  discourses  delivered  we  may 
gather  some  idea,  or  some  principle 
may  flash  upon  our  understanding 
which  will  prove  valuable  to  us  after- 
wards. Our  blessings  and  our  success 
in  the  past  have  been  in  proportion  to 
our  efforts  and  the  exercise  of  our 
faith.  When  we  contemplate  what  the 
Lord  has  done  for  us  in  the  past,  our 
present  surroundings,  and  our  future 
prospects,  what  a  blest  people  we  are! 
I  have  thought  sometimes  that  one  of 
the  greatest  virtues  the  Latter-day 
Saints  could  possess  is  gratitude  to  our 
Heavenly  Father  for  that  which  He  has 
bestowed  upon  us  and  the  path  over 
which  He  has  led  us.  It  may  be  that 
walking  along  in  that  path  has  not  al- 
ways been  of  the  most  pleasant  charac- 
ter; but  we  have  afterwards  discovered 
that  those  circumstances  which  have 
been  very  unpleasant  have  often  proved 
of  the  highest  advantage  to  us.  We 


should  always  be  pleased  with  the  cir- 
cumstances that  surround  us  and  that 
which  the  Lord  requires  at  our  hands. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord  I  bless  you  this  morning.  Let 
us  be  faithful  and  keep  the  command- 
ments of  God.  Let  us  never  allow  our 
prospects  to  become  dimmed;  let  them 
be  fresh  before  us  by  day  and  by  night, 
and  I  will  assure  you  that  if  we 
will  do  this  our  growth  from  day  to  day 
and  from  year  to  year  will  be  marvel- 
ous. We  can  look  back  now  and  we 
can  see  that  we  have  advanced.  We 
have  not  stood  still,  but  we  have  been 
moving  along  and  gradually  increasing 
our  growth.  The  child  grows  from 
childhood  to  boyhood,  and  from  boy- 
hood to  manhood,  with  a  constant  and 
steady  growth;  but  he  cannot  tell  how 
or  when  the  growth  occurs.  He  doe? 
not  realize  that  he  is  growing;  but  bjr 
observing  the  laws  of  health  and  being 
prudent  in  his  course  he  eventually  ar- 
rives at  manhood.  So  in  reference  to 
ourselves  as  Latter-day  Saints.  We 
grow  and  increase.  We  are  not  aware 
of  it  at  the  moment;  but  after  a  year  or 
so  we  discover  that  we  are,  so  to  speak, 
away  up  the  hill,  nearing  the  mountain 
top.  We  feel  that  we  have  faith  in  the 
Lord;  that  His  providences  are  always 
beneficial;  that  we  are  connected  with 
Him;  that  He  is  actually  our  Father, 
and  that  He  leads  us  along  in  life. 

We  should  have  before  us  a  strong 
desire  to  do  good  to  others.  Never  mind 
so  much  about  ourselves.  Good  will 
come  to  us  all  right  if  we  keep  our 
minds  outside  of  ourselves  to  a  certain 
extent,  and  try  to  make  others  happier 
and  draw  them  a  little  nearer  to  the 
Lord.  We  have  been  sent  into  the 
world  to  do  good  to  others;  and  in  do- 
ing good  to  others  we  do  good  to  our- 
selves. We  should  always  keep  this  in 
view,  the  husband  in  reference  to  his 
wife,  the  wife  in  reference  to  her  hus- 
band, the  children  in  reference  to  their 
parents,  and  the  parents  in  reference  to 
their  children.  There  is  always  oppor- 
tunity to  do  good  to  one  another.  When 
you  find  yourselves  a  little  gloomy,  look 
around  you  and  find  somebody  that  is 
in  a  worse  plight  than  yourself;  go  to 
him  and  find  out  what  the  trouble  is, 
then  try  to  remove  it  with  the  wisdom 
which  the  Lord  bestows  upon  you;  and 
the  first  thing  you  know,  your  gloom  is 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


gone,  you  feel  light,  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  is  upon  you,  and  everything 
seems  illuminated. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  God  bless  you. 
Let  us  have  a  good  Conference;  and  in 
order  that  we  may  have,  let  us  have  a 
prayerful  spirit  all  the  time,  and  especi- 
ally when  Elders  arise  here  to  address 
you.  Amen. 

ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 
Pride  and  class  distinctions  displeasing  to  God- 
Duty  of  supporting  the  poor— Titne-paying  is 
educational. 

I  will  read  a  few  words  from  the 
2nd  chapter  of  Jacob  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon: 

"Think  of  your  brethren,  like  unto 
yourselves,  and  be  familiar  with  all, 
and  free  with  your  substance,  that  they 
may  be  rich  like  unto  you. 

"But  before  ye  seek  for  riches,  seek  ye 
for  the  kingdom  of  God. 

"And  after  ye  have  obtained  a  hope  in 
Christ,  ye  shall  obtain  riches,  if  ye 
seek  them;  and  ye  will  seek  them,  for 
the  intent  to  do  good;  to  clothe  the 
naked,  and  to  feed  the  hungry,  and  to 
liberate  the  captive,  and  administer  re- 
lief to  the  sick,  and  the  afflicted. 

"And  now,  my  brethren.I  have  spoken 
unto  you  concerning  pride;  and  those  of 
you  which  have  afflicted  your  neigh- 
bor, and  persecuted  him  because  ye 
were  proud  in  your  hearts,  of  the  things 
which  God  hath  given  you,  what  say 
ye  of  it? 

"Do  ye  not  suppose  that  such  things 
are  abominable  unto  him  who  created 
all  flesh?  And  the  one  being  is  as 
precious  in  his  sight  as  the  other.  And 
all  flesh  is  of  the  dust;  and  for  the  self- 
same end  hath  he  created  them,  that 
they  should  keep  his  commandments, 
and  glorify  him  for  ever." 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  have  se- 
lected a  text  this  morning,  but  I  do  not 
know  that  I  shall  be  able  to  speak  to 
it  as  I  desire  at  all  times  to  leave  my 
mind  open  to  the  impressions  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  and  not  place  myself  in  a 
position  to  resist  that  influence. 
I  am  reminded  of  a  circumstance 
that  occurred  with  one  of  the  home 
missionaries  in  the  Boxelder  Stake, 
which  shows  that  it  is  not  always  safe 
to  rely  upon  a  text.  This  brother  was 
called  to  go  out  and  visit  one  of  the 
wards,  and  before  going  he  selected  a 
text.  He  pondered  upon  the  text,  and 
perhaps  considered  in  a  measure  what 
he  should  say.  When  he  came  to  the 
meeting  he  opened  the  Bible  and 
turned  to  the  page  where  he  expected 


to  find  Ms  text.  He  searched  and 
searched,  but  could  not  find  it.  He  must 
have  been  five  minutes  before  that  con- 
gregation hunting  for  his  text,  and  he 
stood  as  one  who  was  dazed.  After 
a  few  moments,  however,  the  Spiiit  of 
the  Lord  came  to  his  assistance,  and  he 
made  a  pretty  good  talk,  doubtless  bet- 
ter thp"  if  he  had  followed  the  text. 
It  transpired  that  the  particular  leaf 
containing  the  words  he  expected  to 
read  had  been  lost  from  that  Bible, 
and  that  was  the  reason  he  could  not 
find  his  text. 

I  believe  that  it  is  the  purpose  of  the 
Lord  to  make  this  people  rich.  See 
what  a  vast  multitude  inhabit  these 
valleys  of  the  mountains.  Go  out  among 
them;  study  their  characteristics — in- 
dustry.temperance.  thrift — and  they  are 
such  as  will  make  an-"  people  wealthy 
in  the  course  of  time.  But  there  is 
danger  in  riches.  Jacob  was  aware  ot 
this,  and  he  called  the  attention  of  his 
people  to  it.  The  possession  of  wealth 
generally  brings  class  distinctions; class 
distinctions  bring  pride;  and  pride,  we 
are  told,  is  an  abomination  in  the  sight 
of  heaven.  These  class  distinctions  are 
very  apparent  in  the  world,  more  par- 
ticularly in  the  large  cities.  We  read 
the  other  day  of  a  wedding  in  high  life, 
and  we  were  told  that  millions  of  mon- 
ey were  married  to  millions  of  money, 
and  that  it  was  a  very  auspicious  af- 
fair. Everything  connected  with  that 
wedding  was  of  the  most  magnificent 
order.  Costly  presents  were  made,  in- 
cluding diamonds  of  rare  value,  and 
golden  dishes.  Think  of  people  eating 
out  of  golden  dishes,  and  at  the  same 
time  being  surrounded  by  many  who 
are  not  in  a  condition  to  purchase  even 
the  simple  necessaries  of  life,  some  per- 
haps actually  starving  to  death  for 
the  want  of  food.  Now,  the  children  of 
the  rich,  surrounded  by  the  condition* 
that  I  have  mentioned,  with  superior 
opportunities  of  education  and  culture, 
in  time,  get  to  think  that  they  are  bet- 
ter than  the  children  of  the  poor.  They 
can  wear  better  clothing,  they  can  eat 
better  food,  they  have  better  condi- 
tions in  every  way,  and  so  seem  to 
think  they  are  better.  Let  us  imagine 
for  a  moment  a  poor  man,  albeit  an 
honest,  intelligent  man,  and  one  who 
may  stand  high  in  the  estimation  of 
heaven,  coming  into  a  gathering  of  the 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


rich— why,  the  social  distinction  be- 
tween that  poor  man  and  the  rich  man 
Is  so  great  that  doubtless  it  would  ba 
thought  to  be  a  contamination  to  have 
him  there,  and  a  demand  for  his  with- 
drawal would  be  made.  They  cannot 
associate  together.  Yet,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  the  Prophet  Jacob  tells  us 
that  we  are  made  of  one  flesh.  God 
does  not  draw  these  distinctions  that 
we  find  upon  the  earth.  We  are  led  to 
understand  from  the  scriptures  that 
God  is  no  respector  of  per- 
sons, and  that  these  social  distinctions 
that  are  in  the  world,  and  in  some  de- 
gree perhaps  in  our  midst,  are  not 
pleasing  in  His  sight.  He  judges 
not  as  men  judge.  He  looks  not  up- 
on the  features;  He  considers  not  the 
wearing  apparel;  but  He  looks  into  the 
heart.  We  have  seen  this  exemplified 
in  many  cases.  You  will  remember  the 
case  of  David.  Samuel  the  prophet 
was  sent  by  God  to  anoint  a  king  over 
Israel,  and  he  was  to  find  this  king 
among  the  sons  of  Jesse.  Doubtless, 
Jesse  was  very  much  pleased  with  this 
idea,  and  he  passed  his  sons  in  review 
before  the  prophet.  They  were  fine, 
beautiful  men.  It  may  be  that  Samuel 
himself  was  impressed  with  their  ap- 
pearance, and  if  he  had  been  left  to 
himself  he  might  have  selected  one  of 
them;  but  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  whis- 
pered to  him  that  he  was  not  to  place 
his  hands  on  any  of  those.  So  the 
prophet  enquired  of  Jesse  if  he  had 
other  sons,  and  Jesse  remembered  that 
he  did  have  another  son — a  boy — who 
was  out  herding  the  sheep.  The  prophet 
asked  to  see  him.  When  he  came  into 
his  presence  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in- 
spired the  prophet  to  say,  This  is  the 
man.  He  laid  his  hands  upon  him  and 
anointed  him  to  be  king  of  Israel.  The 
Lord  judged  from  the  heart.  He  knew 
the  hearts  of  these  sons  of  Jesse,  and 
David  was  the  chosen  one. 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if  there 
are  to  be  distinctions  among  us,  they 
must  not  be  based  upon  our  financial 
condition,  but  rather  upon  the  princi- 
ple of  righteousness.  One  man  is  bet- 
ter than  another  if  he  is  more  righteous 
than  the  other.  One  man  is  more  ac- 
ceptable to  the  Lord  than  another 
if  he  lives  nearer  to  the  Lord  than  the 
other. 

The  prophet  Jacob  points  out  very 


clearly  the  manner  in  which  it  would 
be  safe  for  His  people  to  seek  after 
riches.  First  seek  the  kingdom 
of  God  and  its  righteousness, 
and  all  other  things  will  be 
added.  Then  if  we  seek  for  riches  we 
will  do  it  with  the  intent  to  accom- 
plish good  and  to  use  them  for  the 
benefit  and  blessing  of  mankind  and  for 
the  establishment  and  upbuilding  of 
the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God.  Be- 
sides, administering  to  the  wants  of 
the  poor  and  to  the  sick  and  afflicted, 
the  Prophet  Jacob  might  also  have  with 
propriety  mentioned  the  principle  of 
tithing — if  they  observed  that  law  in 
that  day — and  other  principles  per- 
taining to  the  Gospel.  I  have  thought 
sometimes  that  God  revealed  this  prin- 
ciple of  tithing  to  His  people  in  order 
that  they  should  not  be  swallowed  up 
in  a  spirit  of  selfishness;  '  that  their 
souls  might  be  enlarged  by  taking  of 
their  substance  and  imparting  it  to 
the  Church,  and  performing  other 
righteous  deeds. 

The  poor  we  have  always  with  us.  It 
was  said  by  Abraham  Lincoln  that  God 
must  love  the  poor  because  he  has  made 
so  many  of  them.  The  Savior  seemed 
to  think  a  great  deal  of  the  poor.  He 
came  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  them,  to 
administer  to  their  wants,  to  heal  the 
sick,  to  cast  out  devils,  to  open  the 
eyes  of  the  blind.  His  life  and  His 
ministry  was  devoted  to  the  poor.  You 
will  find,  if  you  study  closely  the  reve- 
lations of  God  found  in  the  Book  of 
Covenants,  that  a  great  amount  of 
space  is  devoted  to  the  poor.  We  are 
reminded  of  them  continually;  that 
we  shall  divide  our  substance  with 
them.  The  fast  day  has  been  instituted, 
in  part,  for  that  purpose.  It  has  been 
estimated  that  if  the  entire  people  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  would  give  to 
the  poor  the  value  of  the  two  meals 
that  they  refrain  or  should  refrain 
from  partaking  of  upon  that  day,  the 
poor  of  this  church  would  be  well  pro- 
vided for.  But,  let  me  tell  you,  this 
is  not  done;  at  least,  it  is  not  done  in 
our  Stake,  and  I  presume  it  is  not  done 
in  other  Stakes.  I  have  sometimes 
thought  it  would  be  an  excellent 
thing  to  revive  the  custom  of  early 
days,  in  sending  to  the  various  fami- 
lies in  the  ward  and  gather- 
ing   up    their     fast     offerings;  for 


ELDER  ABRAHAM  O  WOODRUFF 


5 


the  Bishops  of  the  Church  well 
know  that  the  people  many  times 
have  offering's  to  make  that  they  can- 
not very  well  carry  to  the  fast  meet- 
ing, and  by  sending  around  and  re- 
minding the  people  of  this  duty,  a  great 
amount  of  good  can  be  accomplished. 
I  have  recommended  this  to  the  Bish- 
ops in  the  Boxelder  Stake,  and  where 
they  have  carried  out  this  counsel  most 
excellent  results  have  followed.  This 
is  a  matter  of  vital  importance.  If 
we  neglect  the  poor,  God  will  neglect 
us.  We  must  look  after  them.  Those 
who  are  so  highly  favored  must  divide 
their  substance  with  them.  And  we 
must  remember  to  observe  this  law  of 
tithing.  When  a  man's  income 
amounts  to  only  a  few  hun- 
dred dollars  a  year,  it  is  a 
simple  matter  to  pay  tithing;  but  you 
will  notice  that  as  a  man  is  increased 
in  his  substance,  as  God  opens  the  win- 
dows of  heaven  and  pours  down  bless- 
ings upon  him,  there  is  a  tendency  to 
drop  off  in  the  paying  of  tithing.  It  is 
easier  for  a  man  who  is  getting  a  thou- 
sand dollars  a  year  to  pay  an  honest 
tithing  to  the  Lord  than  for  a  man  who 
is  getting  ten  thousand  dollars  a  year; 
and  it  is  easier  for  a  man  who  gets  ten 
thousand  dollars  a  year  to  pay  an  hon- 
est tithing  than  for  a  man  who  gets 
a  hundred  thousand  dollars  a  year. 
It  seems  to  be  almost  impossible  for  a 
man  with  that  enormous  income  to  pay 
a  just  tithing  to  the  Lord.  Yet  the  tith- 
ing belongs  to  the  Lord,  and  He  ex- 
pects that  we  will  observe  this  law, 
that  this  may  be  indeed  a  land  of  Zion 
unto  us. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  in  pon- 
dering upon  the  principles  of  the  Gos- 
pel; and  in  my  weak  way  I  am  endeav- 
oring to  observe  these  laws  and  com- 
mandments. I  feel  blessed  in  it,  and 
I  can  recommend  it  to  you.  I  know 
there  is  a  blessing  attendant  upon  the 
observance  of  the  laws  of  God.  I 
pray  that  His  blessing  may  be  upon  the 
us,  that  His  peace  may  be  in  our  midst, 
and  that  His  Spirit  may  be  poured  out 
abundantly  upon  the  Saints  in  this 
general  Conference,  that  we  may  be 
strengthened,  edified,  renewed  in  our 
faith,  and  encouraged  to  go  on  and  ac- 
complish the  will  of  God.  I  ask  it  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 

Value  of  inspired  counsel— The  Saints  expanding 
by  faith  and  colonization— Success  in  mission- 
ary work. 

I  assure  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  in  occupying'  this  position  this 
morning  I  feel  very  humble,  and  very 
dependent  upon  the  Lord  for  His  Spirit 
to  give  me  utterance.  I  rejoice  in  see- 
ing so  many  present,  and  in  realizing 
the  number  of  aged  veterans  there  are 
in  our  midst  who  lived  in  the  days  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph,  and  who  are 
pleased  to  bear  testimony  of  the  divin- 
ity of  that  Prophet's  mission.  It  is  re- 
markable how  the  Lord  has  preserved 
so  many  of  those  who  lived  in  the  days 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  and  I  am  always 
made  glad  in  listening  to  their  testi- 
mony for  those  who  were  so  intimately 
associated  with  the  Prophet,  and  who 
knew  him  best,  loved  him  best.  I  thank 
the  Lord  that  He  has  preserved  the 
Prophet  of  God  who  stands  in  our  mi3st 
today,  and  has  sustained  him  and  does 
sustain  him  by  His  matchless  power.  I 
rejoice  in  his  teachings,  and  the  people 
ought  to  appreciate  the  counsels  given 
by  this  man  of  God.  Many  people  wish 
they  had  lived  in  the  time  when  Christ 
was  upon  the  earth;  they  think  they 
would  have  loved  the  Lord  and  been 
more  devoted  to  Him  than  they  are  at 
the  present  time.  But  every  time  we 
hold  a  general  Conference  we  uphold 
and  sustain  the  Prophet  of  God  as  His 
mouthpiece,  His  vicegerent  upon  the 
earth,  and  the  question  arises  in  my 
mind  many  times,  Do  we  appreciate  the 
counsels  that  are  given  us  from  this 
man?  Are  we  willing  to  accept  of  his 
words  as  the  word  of  God?  When  we 
ask  his  advice,  do  we  ask  believing  and 
expecting  to  carry  it  out,  whether  it 
comes  in  conflict  with  our  own  selfish 
desires  and  ambitions  or  not?  I  often 
feel  that  we  do  not.  People  ask  coun- 
sel at  times  if  they  think  they  can  get 
that  which  will  be  favorable  to  their 
own  selfish  desires;  but  if  they 
thought  they  would  get  counsel  which 
would  be  contrary  to  their  own  wishes, 
they  would  refrain  from  asking  it. 

In  visiting  the  outside  settlements  of 
Zion  I  have  been  made  to  realize  the 
great  faith  of  the  people.  I  have  won- 
dered at  the  works  they  have  per- 
formed, through  the  faith  they  have  in 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


God.  Many  thousands  have  proven  be- 
yond a  doubt  that  they  are  willing  to 
trust  implicitly  in  the  word  of  God  as 
it  is  given  through  His  mouthpiece. 
But  there  are  others  who  are  not  so 
Willing.  There  are  men  holding  the 
Priesthood,  who  are  praying  from  day 
to  day  that  they  may  receive  light  upon 
certain  subjects,  and  if  the  prophet  of 
God  were  to  say  to  them  what  course 
they  should  pursue  and  give  them  the 
light  for  which  they  have  sought,  in 
some  cases  they  would  decline  to  follow 
that  course.  But  the  men  who  will  not 
carry  out  the  instruction  given  through 
President  Lorenzo  Snow  are  not  in  har- 
mony with  God,  for  I  testify  to  you 
that  he  is  the  mouthpiece  of  the  Most 
High  upon  the  face  of  the  earth;  and 
those  who  refuse  to  accept  his  teach- 
ings, if  they  do  not  repent,  will  lose 
the  spirit  of  this  work  and  will  aposta- 
tize, as  the  Lord  lives. 

We  have  much  to  be  thankful  for  in 
being  able  to  meet  together  in  this  gen- 
eral conference.  Sixty-nine  years  ago 
today  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  was 
organized  in  a  little  log  house,  with  six 
members.  Look  at  it  today!  Those  who 
have  traveled  through  the  Stakes  real- 
ize how  Zion's  boundaries  are  being  ex- 
tended, and  how  the  people  are  growing 
in  faith  and  in  good  works.  Only  those 
who  are  disgruntled  believe  that  the 
Church  is  going  backward.  I  tell  you, 
the  people  are  gaining  in  faith  and  in 
good  works.  They  are  colonizing  the 
country;  they  are  beginning  to  possess 
the  earth,  to  own  their  own  homes,  to 
cultivate  the  soil,  and  they  are  be- 
coming a  great  and  a  mighty  people. 
I  do  not  think  that  conditions  were 
ever  so  favorable  as  they  are  today 
for  the  enlarging  of  the  borders  of 
Zion  and  for  the  growth  of  the  people. 
Most  excellent  opportunities  are  offered 
for  colonization,  whereby  the  people 
can  obtain  a  foothold  in  the  land  and 
make  a  living  out  of  mother  earth.  The 
people  seem  to  be  attending  to  their 
duties  and  exercising  a  faith  equal  to 
that  which  has  been  exercised  at  any 
time  since  the  organization  of  the 
Church. 

My  labors  during  the  last  year  have 
chiefly  been  among  the  people  in  the 
outlying  Stakes.  I  have  visited  our 
settlements  in  Canada,  in  Arizona,  in 
Mexico,  and  in  southern  Utah,  and  I 


can  say  we  have  in  these  Stakes  a 
good  people,  a  God-fearing  people,  a 
people  who  are  willing  to  receive  the 
counsels  .  which  God  has  for  them 
through  His  mouthpiece.  Those  Stakes 
have  been  settled  by  people  who  have 
been  called  to  go  there,  and  it  has 
seemed  to  me  that  those  who  had  not 
the  courage  to  carry  out  the  instruc- 
tions of  God  in  establishing  those 
places  have  not  been  able  to  endure  the 
hardships  and  privations  which  came 
upon  them,  and  they  have  therefore 
returned  to  their  old  homes  and  left 
those  who  had  faith  in  the  Lord  and 
valued  the  advice  He  gave  them 
through  His  mouthpiece,  and  they  are 
among  the  most  faithful  people  to  be 
found  in  this  Church  today. 

I  rejoice  in  the  labor  that  our  mis- 
sionaries are  performing.  I  rejoice  in 
the  growth  of  the  work  of  the  Lord  in 
every  field;  for  it  is  growing,  notwith- 
standing the  persecution  that  is  brought 
against  it  from  time  to  time.  As  long 
as  persecution  comes  from  without,  we 
can  combat  it,  and  it  does  not  injure 
the  work  of  the  Lord;  but  when  there 
is  disunion  among  the  people,  and 
a  tendency  to  disregard  counsel,  then 
there  is  danger  in  Zion.  So  long,  how- 
ever, as  the  leading  quorums  of  this 
Church  are  united  as  they  they  are  to- 
day; so  long  as  the  people  are  united 
and  are  willing  to  receive  the  in- 
structions that  are  given  of  God 
through  His  Prophet,  all  will  be  well, 
and  the  Church  will  continue  to  grow 
and  increase.  People  marvel  today  at 
the  growth  of  this  work  from  six  mem- 
bers. Since  1830  it  has  grown  into 
something  like  forty  Stakes  of  Zion  and 
many  missions  in  the  world,  and  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel  are  heard  in 
every  land  where  liberty  is  granted  un- 
to us  to  proclaim  them.  It  has  been 
decreed  that  this  Gospel  shall  be 
preached  in  all  the  world,  for  a  wit- 
ness unto  every  people,  and  then 
shall  the  end  come.  It  is  remarkable 
the  willingness  that  the  Elders  show 
in  responding  to  the  calls  made  upon 
them  to  go  to  the  nations  of  the  earth 
to  proclaim  this  •  Gospel.  Many  who 
have  apparently  manifested  no  partic- 
ular interest  in  this  work,  when  they 
are  called  to  go  forth  to  proclaim  the 
Gospel,  rarely  ever  refuse;  and  today 
there  are   more  Elders   in   the  world 


ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 


7 


preaching  this  Gospel  than  there  has 
ever  been.  This  should  be  indeed  en- 
couraging- to  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
When  I  think  of  the  constant  drain 
upon  this  people  to  maintain  the  mis- 
sionaries in  the  field,  I  marvel  at  the 
prosperity  of  the  people.  But  the 
Lord  blesses  and  prospers  us  in  sus- 
taining these  missionaries  and  in  res- 
ponding to  the  many  calls  that  are 
made  upon  us.  This  labor  is  upon 
us  to  carry  the  Gospel  to  the  world, 
that  those  who  sit  in  darkness  may  see 
the  light.  It  is  incumbent  upon  every 
man  who  holds  the  Priesthood  of  a 
Seventy  in  the  Church  to  go  forth  and 
preach  the  Gospel;  and  if  he  does  not 
when  called,  it  will  be  with  him  as  with 
Paul,  Woe  be  unto  him  if  he  preach 
not  the  Gospel  of  Christ  when  he  is 
called  by  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord  to 
go  forth  and  proclaim  it. 

T  have  a  testimony,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  this  is  the  work  of  God. 
I  know  that  the  sick  are  healed;  I 
know  that  the  Lord  answers  the 
prayers  of  His  people;  I  know  that 
this  people  have  been  able  on 
some  occasions  to  even  control 
the  elements  for  their  safety  and 
for  the  upbuilding  of  Zion.  I  rejoice 
in  being  present  with  you  this  morning 
and  partaking  of  the  sweet  influence  of 
His  Holy  Spirit.  Did  this  people  ever 
come  together  with  a  desire  to  be  fed 
with  the  bread  of  life,  and  they  were 
not  able  to  receive  that  whicn  they  de- 
sired? No,  this  has  never  been  the 
case.  God  has  always  inclined  His  ear 
to  this  people;  He  has  always  delivered 
them  from  their  afflictions;  He  has  al- 
ways blessed  them.  He  has  been  in- 
deed kind  and  fatherly  to  us  as  indi- 
viduals and  as  a  people.  The  prospects 
for  the  development  and  spread  of  this 
work  were  never  brighter,  never  more 
hopeful,  than  they  are  at  the  present 
time.  I  admonish  the  Latter-day  Saints 
in  all  lands  to  seek  the  counsel  of  the 
prophet  of  God.  Do  not  be  disobedient; 
do  not  be  rebellious.  The  spirit  of  re- 
bellion caused,  we  understand,  one-third 
of  the  hosts  of  heaven  to  be  cast  out. 
The  spirit  of  disobedience  and  rebellion 
has  caused  many  a  man  and  woman  to 
be  cast  out  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  grav- 
er sins  do  not  come  into  our  lives  all  at 
once.  Very  often  men  can  trace  trans- 


gression to  the  fact  that  they  rebelled 
against  the  priesthood  of  the  Son  of 
God,  and  that  they  did  not  take  the 
counsel  which  the  Lord  had  given  them 
through  His  mouthpiece;  and  they  did 
not  end  with  the  spirit  of  rebellion 
and  obedience,  but  they  committed 
other  great  sins,  and  finally  lost  their 
standing  in  the  Church  of  Christ.  This 
rule  will  apply  to  us  today,  and  I  pray 
God  that  this  people  may  ever  be  will- 
ing to  receive  the  counsels  which  the 
Lord  has  to  give  through  His  prophet. 
Some  become  so  engrossed  with  politi- 
cal parties,  or  with  secret  societies,  or 
something  of  the  kind,  that  they  pay 
them  greater  devotion  than  they  do  the 
word  of  God.  This  is  wrong.  The  Lord 
has  built  up  this  western  country 
through  His  people  who  came  here  to 
worship  Him  according  to  the  dictates 
of  their  own  hearts.  Let  us  not 
forget  that.  Let  us  not  forget  that 
we  owe  our  first  and  foremost 
devotion  to  God,  the  Eternal  Father. 
We  sustain  President  Lorenzo  Snow  as 
the  mouthpiece  of  God.  Therefore, 
when  he  has  anything  to  say  to  us  aa 
the  mind  and  will  of  the  Lord,  it  is  just 
as  binding  upon  us  as  if  God  spake 
personally  to  us.  I  ofttimes  think  of 
the  parable  of  Lazarus  and  the  rich 
man,  and  I  sometimes  think  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  manifest  a  spirit  like  that 
which  was  exhibited  by  the  rich  man 
when  he  was  in  torment  on  account  of 
the  evil  life  he  had  led  on  earth.  He 
had  brothers  whom  he  desired  to  be 
saved,  and  he  petitioned  Father  Abra- 
ham that  one  who  had  risen  from  the 
dead  should  go  to  these  brothers  and 
tell  them  of  their  ways  and  call  them 
to  repent.  But  Abraham  remarked  that 
they  had  Moses  and  the  Prophets,  and 
if  they  would  not  believe  them  they 
would  not  believe  one  though  he  were 
risen  from  the  dead.  I  tell  you  that  if 
we  do  not  feel  in  our  hearts  to  sus- 
tain the  prophets  of  God,  we  would 
not  believe  the  Lord  if  He  were  to 
come  Himself,  or  if  He  were  to  send 
one  that  was  risen  from  the  dead. 
There  is  no  need  for  the  Lord  to  send 
special  messengers  to  tell  us  our  duty. 
The  Lord  has  placed  President  Lorenzo 
Snow  as  the  prophet,  seer  and  revelator 
to  this  Church;  and  if  we  desire  to 
keep  in  harmony  with  this  work  we 
must    listen    to    the    words  which 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  Lord  God  gives  to  us  through  His 
Prophet. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you,  brethren  and 
sisters;  may  he  pour  out  His  spirit 
upon  us;  may  we  never  rebel,  nor  lose 
the  faith;  may  we  be  willing  to  receive 
the  counsel  of  the  Lord  through  His 
Prophet  whenever  it  is  given  to  us.  I 
ask  it  for  Christ's  sake.  Amen. 

ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 

Prophetic  gift  of  Joseph  Smith— Early  manifesta- 
tion of  God  and  the  ministration  of  Angels- 
Opposition  of  the  world— God  guides  His  -work 
by  revelation. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  pleased 
to  meet  with  you  at  this  conference.  I 
humbly  ask  you  to  pray  for  me,  that 
the  Holy  Spirit  may  suggest  what  may 
be  said. 

I  rejoice  in  the  celebration  of  the  na- 
tal day  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  in  being  a 
recipient  of  the  blessings  which  are 
enjoyed  by  the  members  thereof,  and 
which  have  come  to  us,  to  a  very  great 
extent,  through  the  labors  incident  to 
the  establishment  of  this  Church  and 
the  tribulations  which    were  encount- 
ered by  the    Prophet    Joseph  Smith. 
Whatever   characterized    a  prophet  in 
olden  times  characterized    the  great 
prophet  of  the  last  days.  We  point  very 
frequently    to  the  remarkable  fulfil- 
ment of  predictions  which  have  been  ut- 
tered in  ancient  times  by  theJewish  pro- 
phets   as  an  evidence  of  the  divine  au- 
thority which  they  bore  and  of  the  re- 
markable   work    which    was  accom- 
plished by  them  in  the  interest  of  hu 
manity.    We  may  point  with  equal  joy 
and  satisfaction  to  the  remarkable  ut- 
terances of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  to  es- 
tablish the  divine  authenticity  of  his 
claim.    I  have  never  heard  of  a  pre- 
diction uttered  by  that  man  which  has 
not  been  verified,  so  far  as  time  has 
brought  the  prophecy  due.      I  have 
never  discovered  any  characteristic  as- 
sociated   with    any  of    the  rncient 
prophets  of  God  in  the  work  which  they 
accomplished,  and  which  went  to  prove 
their  divine  mission,  which  cannot  be 
pointed  to  in  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
and  his  work.  He  came  to  the  world  an- 
nouncing a  new  dispensation.    He  did 
not  derive  his  information  respecting 
religious  matters    from    reading  the 


scriptures  only.    He  did  act  upon  the 
promise  of  the  Apostle    James,  con- 
tained in  the  Bible,  (and  which  is  appli- 
cable to  our  young  people  in  securing  a 
testimony  of  the  truth)  where  he  says: 
"If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him 
ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men  lib- 
erally, and  upbraideth  not;  and  it  shall 
be  given  him."    The  Prophet,  in  the 
confusion  which  came  to  his  mind  by 
listening  to  the  conflicting  sentiments 
of  the  various  factions  of  Christianity, 
resorted  to  reading  the  scripture  foi 
himself,  and  he  concluded  to  test  this 
passage    that  I   have  quoted.    He  was 
inspired  with  the  same  faith  that  ac- 
tuated the  ancient  Saints  of  God — the 
same  faith  that  was  taught  by  the  Sa- 
vior when  He  said,  "Ask,  and  ye  shall 
receive;  knock,  and  it  shall  be  opened 
unto  you."    He  went  into  the  woods  to 
pray,  and  he  besought    the    Lord  to 
know  which  of    all  the    factions  of 
Christianity  was  acknowledged  by  the 
God  of    heaven.    In    answer    to  this 
prayer,  he  received  a  communication 
from  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  in  which 
the  glory  of  heaven  rested  upon  him, 
and  in  that  glory  there  was  presented 
before  this  young  man  two  heavenly 
personages.    When  he  had  strength  to 
ask  the  question  which  he  desired  to 
propound,  one  of  these  personages  said 
unto  him,   "This  is  my  beloved  Son; 
hear,  him."    The    son    informed  the 
Prophet  Joseph  that  He  did  not  recog- 
nize any  of  the  denominations.  Among 
them  were  honest  people,  people  who 
were  doing  the  best  they  could  with  the 
light  they  had;  but  they  had  not  been 
founded  upon  tb^e  revelations  of  God, 
andHe  commanded  this  young  man  that 
he  should  not  identify  himself  with  an> 
denomination,  and  that  if  he  would  lis- 
ten to  this  counsel  the  day  would  come 
when  he  should  be  instrumental  in  the 
hands  of  God  in  accomplishing  a  great 
and  a  mighty  work  in  the  earth.  This 
young  man  was  faithful  to  this  in- 
junction.   He  did  not  follow  the  ways 
of  the  world,  and  in  due  time  he  re- 
ceived   another    communication  from 
God,     in       which     a     holy  angel 
appeared  unto  him  and  revealed  to  him 
the  existence  of  some  sacred  records, 
(from  a  translation  of  which  Brother 
Rudger  Clawson  has  read  a  few  state- 
ments), containing  a  brief  history  of  the 
inhabitants  of  this  continent  from  a 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COlVLE\. 


9 


period  600  years  before  Christ  down  to 
about  400  years  after  Christ;  also  a 
concise  statement  of  a  people  who  had 
come  to  this  land  from  the  Tower  of 
Babel,  when  the  languages  were  con- 
founded. This  angel  of  the  Lord  ap- 
peared to  the  Prophet  Joseph  three 
times  during  the  night  of  the  21st  of 
September,  1823.  He  met  him  next  at 
the  nlace  where  these  sacred  plates 
were  deposited,  and  commanded  him  to 
meet  him  there  on  that  day  of  the 
month  each  year  for  four  years,  when, 
if  he  was  faithful  in  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  God,  he  should  receive 
these  sacred  writings.  He  was  faithful 
to  this  injunction,  and  on  the  22nd  of 
September,  1827,  the  angel  of  the  Lord 
delivered  these  plates  into  the  hands 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  who 
translated  them  by  the  use  of  the  Urim 
and  Thummin,  as  he  was  led  by  the 
spirit  of  revelation  from  God.  Through 
this  we  have  what  is  called  the  Book 
of  Mormon. 

In  laying  the  foundation  of  this  great 
work  the  Prophet  Joseph  was  not  sus 
tained  by  the  popular    sentiment  of 
mankind,  nor  by  the  hope  of  any  world- 
ly inducement;   but  he  was  actuated 
by  the  conviction  and  the  understand- 
ing that  he  had  received  a  revelation 
from  God;  that  he  had  seen  the  Father 
and  the  Son;  that  he  had  received  the 
ministration  of  holy  angels.   He  endur- 
ed the  trials  that  the  ancient  prophets 
passed  through;    he  suffered  persecu- 
tion, imprisonment  and  privation;  he 
offered  his  life  for  the  work,  and  he 
sealed  his  testimony  with  his  blood. 
The  Apostle  Paul  tells  us  that  where 
there  is  a  testament  there  is  of  neces- 
sity the   death   of   the   testator.  He 
has  offered  to  the  world  his  testimony, 
the  fulfilment    of    his  prophecies,  the 
verification     of     the     promises  made 
by     him.     Those     who     would  lis- 
ten    to     this     voice     of  insniration 
and    receive    the  Gospel    as  revealed 
through  him  were  promised  that  they 
should  receive  a  witness  for  themselves. 
In  the  offering  made  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith    nothing    was  withheld 
that  was  offered  by  the  ancient  proph- 
ets of  God  and  by  the  Savior  himself. 
And  I  wish  to  bear  testimony  that  I 
have  received  the  witness  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  Almighty. 
I  have  received  the  testimony  that  he 


was  commanded  of  God  to  found  this 
work  and  to  organize  the  Church  after 
the  primitive  pattern;  that  he  received 
revelation  and  was  guided  by  it  all  the 
days  of  his  life,  from  the  inception  of 
the  work  until  the  hour  when  his  life 
was  sacrificed  in  Carthage  jail  for  the 
testimony  of  Jesus  and  the  word  of 
God.  The  Saints  of  God,  in  all  the  try- 
ing ordeals  through  which  they  passed 
under  the  administration  of  the  Proph- 
et Joseph  Smith,  were  sustained  and 
preserved.  In  the  establishment  of  this 
work  it  was  designed  of  the  Father  that 
the  same  spirit  and  power  should  con- 
tinue with  the  Church  down  to  the 
latest  period  of  time;  and  I  wish  to 
bear  my  testimony — and  I  wish  my 
brethren  and  sisters  to  remember  it  and 
to  instill  it  into  the  hearts  of  their  chil- 
dren— that  the  prophets  who  have  stood 
at  the  head  of  his  Church  since  the 
death  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  have  been 
guided  by  the  spirit  of  revelation.  I 
am  reminded  of  a  statement  made  by 
the  Prophet  Amos,  in  his  3rd  chapter 
and  7th  verse: 

"Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do  nothing, 
but  he  revealeth  his  secret  unto  his 
servants  the  prophets." 

In  view  of  this,  we  may  say  that 
when  He  did  not  have  a  prophet  upon 
the  earth  He  was  not  doing  anything, 
so  far  as  the  great  plan  of  salvation 
is  concerned;  that  is,  the  ordinances  of 
that  plan  were  not  being  administered, 
and  He  was  not  communicating  His 
will  to  His  children  respecting  the  plan 
of  redemption.  However,  His  hand  was 
manifest  in  the  progress  and  in  the  en- 
lightenment of  the  world,  and  in  the 
extension  of  human  liberty.  Where 
there  has  been  no  prophet  of 
God  the  people  have  not  received  the 
light  of  revelation  to  the  extent  that 
they  could  understand  and  apply  the 
ordinances  of  salvation.  As  Solomon 
says,  in  Proverb  29:  18:  "Where  there 
is  no  vision,  the  people  perish;"  and  Ho- 
sea  said  that  the  Lord  had  spoken  by 
prophets,  and  had  multiplied  visions 
and  used  similitudes,  by  the  ministry 
of  the  prophets.  "By  a  prophet  the 
Lord  brought  Israel  out  of  Egypt,  and 
by  a  prophet  was  he  preserved.1'  And 
I  want  to  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints 
that  Israel  in  modern  times  have  been 
preserved  by  the  same  means.  Those 
who  listened  to  the  voice  of  the  in- 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


spired  Prophet  in  the  commencement, 
no  matter  what  sacrifice  it  cost  them, 
were  sustained  by  the  power  of  God. 
This  is  true  also  respecting-  the  ad- 
ministration of  President  Brigiiam 
Young-.  What  a  wonderful  work  he 
accomplished, building  upon  the  founda- 
tion laid  by  God  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  and  carrying  out  the 
plan  which  had  been  predicted  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph!  In  leading  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  to  these  mountains  and 
establishing  their  feet  here,  he  was 
but  carrying  out  the  great  plan  that 
had  been  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith,  who  had  prophesied  on  the 
fi+b  of  Aue-ust,  1843,  that  some  of  the 
people  would  die  of  persecution,  some 
would  die  of  trial  and  hardship,  but 
some,  he  said,  would  live  to  go  beyond 
the  Rocky  Mountains  and  see  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  become  a  mighty  people 
in  that  region  of  country.  This  prophecy 
has  been  fulfilled  as  well  as  other  pre- 
dictions he  uttered  in  connection  with 
this  work,  as  established  in  these  moun- 
tain valleys.  The  Latter-day  Saints 
are  safe  as  long  as  they  listen  to  the 
voice  of  inspiration.  I  rejoice  that  we 
have  President  Lorenzo  Snow  with  us 
today.  I  rejoice  that  the  Lord  has 
spared  his  life.  He  is  now  eighty-five 
years  of  age;  he  is  in  the  possession  of 
all  his  faculties,  bright,  clear  and 
active;  and  God  has  sustained 
him  in  his  administrations,  and 
brought  him  to  stand  at  our  head  at 
this  present  period  of  time.  I  am  re- 
minded of  what  was  said  of  the  Proph- 
et Moses,  that  notwithstanding  his  age 
his  eye  waxed  not  dim,  neither  did  his 
natural  force  abate.  The  Lord  has 
■done  this  for  those  who  have  presided 
over  His  Church  in  the  last  days.  He 
has  sustained  them  in  body  and  in 
mind:  He  has  preserved  their  lives, 
that  we  might  profit  by  their  vast  ex- 
perience. I  rejoice  in  this  fact,  and  T 
wish  to  express  my  gratitude  before 
God  and  before  this  congregation  that 
the  Lord  has  preserved  President  Snow 
to  administer  unto  us  and  to  s 
us  the  benefit  of  his  great  experience  in 
this  latter  day  work. 

I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
during  our  conference  we  shall  be  fed 
with  the  bread  of  life,  that  we  shall 


receive  here  a  little  and  there  a  little, 
and  that  from  what  is  said  by  the 
speakers  each  and  every  one  of  us  may 
find  something  applicable  to  ourselves, 
which  we  can  take  home  and  carry  out 
in  our  daily  lives.  I  trust  also  that 
we  may  have  the  spirit  of  the  business 
that  may  be  transacted  at  this  confer- 
ence, whatever  it  may  be.  There  is  a 
very  great  responsibility  resting  upon 
the  authorities  of  the  Church.  I  feel 
that  it  is  an  immense  responsibility  to 
be  a  servant  of  God.  I  feel  my  un- 
worthiness  in  occupying  such  a  posi- 
tion among  the  Saints  of  God,  and  I 
cannot  occupy  it  unless  I  am  sustained 
by  the  Almighty.  But  while  there  is  a 
great  responsibility  resting  upon  the 
Presidency  and  the  general  authorities 
of  this  Church,  there  is  a  correspond- 
ing responsibility  resting  upon  every 
man  and  every  woman  in  the  Church. 
We  are  not  alone  in  bearing  the  holy 
priesthood,  we  are  not  the  only  ones 
that  have  received  the  testimony  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  We  all  have  received  this 
testimony  who  have  been  brought  into 
communion  with  God.  Hence  there  is 
a  responsibility  of  a  weighty  character 
resting  upon  all  of  us,  in  every  avenue 
of  life  and  in  all  the  interests  of  this 
work.  And  the  interests  of  this  work 
are  varied.  They  are  not  all  what  is 
called  spiritual;  if  they  were,  we  would 
die  temporally.  They  are  not  all  tem- 
poral; if  they  were,  we  would  die  spirit- 
ually. But  it  is  all  spiritual  unto  God. 
He  designs  that  the  laborer  in  Zion 
shall  labor  for  Zion,  and  that  in  all 
things  we  shall  be  actuated  by  the 
spirit  of  God,  so  that  all  we  do  may  be 
sanctified  to  His  honor  and  glory  and 
to  the  accomplishment  of  His  great 
work  upon  the  earth. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters;  and  when  we  leave  this 
conference,  may  we  leave  it  renewed  in 
strength,  in  faith  and  in  a  determina- 
tion to  keep  the  commandments  of  God 
and  walk  in  the  paths  of  life.  This  is 
my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn  commenc- 
ing. 

How  are  thy  servants  blest!   O  Lord, 
How  sure  is  their  defense! 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Pat- 
riarch John  Smith. 


ELDER  ANTHON  H.  LUAD. 


11 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 
2  p.  m. 

Singing  by  the  choir: 

On  the  mountain  top  appearing 
Lo!  the  sacred  herald  stands! 

Welcome  news  to  Zion  bringing 
Zion,  long-  in  hostile  lands. 

Prayer  by  Elder  John  Nicholson. 
The  choir  sang  the  hymn  which  be- 
gins: 

Truth  reflects  upon  our  senses, 
Gospel  light  reveals  to  some, 

If  there  still  should  be  offenses, 
Woe  to  them  by  whom  they  come. 

ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

•Giving  employment  to  the  poor— Home  manufac- 
tures. 

I  hope  while  I  shall  speak  to  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  shall  be 
under  the  influence  of  the  same  spirit 
as  guided  our  beloved  brethren  who 
spoke  this  forenoon.  It  is  pleasant 
to  have  the  privilege  of  meeting  with 
the  Saints  in  general  Conference.  We 
feel  that  there  is  a  great  deal  of  the 
spirit  of  God  present  and  we  delight  to 
hear  our  leaders  speak  unto  us. 

At  this  Conference  we  are  favored 
by  having  the  First  Presidency,  the 
Apostles,  and  the  Presidents  of  Seven- 
ties with  us.  I  do  not  remember  that 
this  has  been  the  case  for  many  years. 
I  believe  that  during  this  Conference 
the  Lord  will  bless  us  and  give  us  a 
rich  outpouring  of  His  Holy  Spirit. 

One  of  the  brethren  this  forenoon  al- 
luded to  the  many  hundreds  of  Elders 
we  have  in  the  field  working  for  the 
spread  of  the  truth.  We  have  glorious 
reports  from  the  different  missions;  our 
brethren  are  doing  well  and  laboring 
to  gather  sheep  into  the  fold  of  Christ; 
and  the  Lord  is  blessing  their  endeav- 
ors. Now,  while  the  great  majority 
of  us  are  not  called  upon  to  go*  out  in- 
to the  active  missionary  field,  there  is 
still  a  great  mission  which  all  of  us 
can  perform.  The  Latter-day  Saints 
at  home  have  a  great  deal  to  do.  Our 
brethren  gather  Israel  from  the  dif- 
ferent nations  of  the  earth.  Most  of 
the  Saints  when  they  come  have  ex- 
hausted their  means  in  bringing  them 
to  Zion;  they  come  to  a  strange  land; 
the  customs  are  different,  and  they 
have  not  many  acquaintances,  though 


thfv  have  many  friends.     We  should 
look  after  these,  that  they  be  not  dis- 
couraged.    They  may  not  be  able  to 
find  the  kind  of  work  they  have  been 
used  to  do,  and  we  may  not  be  able  to 
provide  that  for  them,  but  we  should 
try  to  give  them  an  opportunity  to  earn 
their  livelihood.     We  do  not  want  to 
make  paupers  of  them.     We  want  to 
study  ways  and  devise  means  whereby 
they  can  earn  their  living  in  our  midst. 
Our  missionaries  who  return  should 
continue  to  take  the  same  lively  in- 
terest in  the  Saints  after  they  gather 
as  they  did  when  they  were  laboring 
in  their  midst  in    the    different  fields 
abroad.     Sometimes     they     feel  hurt 
wThen    they     come     here      and  no 
notice     is     taken     of     them.  The 
missionaries  who  are  acquainted  with 
them  should  take  some  interest  in  them 
and  try  to  do  something  for  them.  A 
great  many  are  doing  this,  and  I  am 
always  pleased  when  I  hear  the  mis- 
sionaries   make    inquiries    about  ac- 
quaintances, to  know  if  they  arrived; 
and  to  see  interest  taken  in  them;  but  I 
have  seen  other  cases  where  our  emi- 
grants have  felt  as  if  they  were  not 
looked  after,  and  if  under  such  circum- 
stances, when  they  feel  a  little  slight- 
ed, they  should  come  in  contact  with 
those  who  are  disaffected  it  may  make 
them  so,  and  cause  some  of  them  to 
return  to  the  places  where  they  former- 
ly lived;  and  such  have  at  times  done  a 
great  deal  of  harm  to  the  cause.  We 
can  fulfill  part  of  a  mission  in  looking 
after  the  Saints  when  they  have  gath- 
ered; we  should  see  to  it  that  employ- 
ment is  provided  for  them.    In  early 
years  those  who  embraced  the  Gospel 
were  mostly  from  the  rural  districts — 
farmers.    When  they  came  here  they 
did  not  want  to  stay  In  the  city;  they 
wanted  to  go  out  where  they  could  get 
land  and  the  same  kind  of  employment 
they  had  been  used  to,  and  they  soon 
established  themselves    and  prospered. 
Of  late  years  our  missionaries  in  Eu- 
rope have  not  been  able  to  do  much 
among  the  rural  population,  but  have 
done  more  in  the  cities,  and  more  of 
those    who    live    in  large  cities  have 
joined  the  Church  than  of  those  outside 
the  cities,  and  when  these  come  here 
they  seek  the  more  populous  centers 
as  they  are  not  accustomed  to  farming. 
Such  should  be  looked  after  and  en- 


12 


GENERAL  COhEERENCE. 


couraged  to  go  out  into  the  settlements. 
Our  settlements  here  are  not  like  the 
rural  districts  in  Europe.  Nearly  all 
of  our  settlements  have  the  advantages 
of  cities — good  schools,  good  societies, 
and  the  advantages  that  are  found  in 
cities  in  the  old  world  are  to  a  certain 
extent  to  be  found  in  most  of  our  larger 
settlements.  Our  brethren  and  sisters 
who  come  from  the  cities,  need  not  stay 
here  in  Salt  Lake  City  to  enjoy  the 
same  advantages  they  did  before  they 
came, but  they  can  go  out  into  the  larger 
settlements,  and  it  will  not  be  hard  for 
those  who  are  not  too  old  to  accustom 
themselves  to  labor  on  the  farms.  Many 
who  have  been  brought  up  to  a  certain 
kind  of  employment  in  factories,  or 
different  handicrafts,  may  not  be  able 
to  get  the  same  kind  of  employment 
here,  but  many  of  them  can  go  out  and 
take  hold  of  the  work  that  is  to  be 
found  in  our  settlements,  and  it 
will  not  take  them  long  to  establish 
themselves  and  get  homes  of  their  own. 
They  will  feel  happier  in  doing  so,  and 
though  farming  is  often  connected  with 
hard  work,  the  labor  has  been  lightened 
of  late  years  to  a  great  degree.  Our 
farmers  by  getting  machinery,  can  do 
much  of  their  work  sitting.and  the  hard 
work  that  our  brethren  tell  us  they  did 
in  early  days  is  not  required  today.  I 
speak  thus  to  encourage  our  brethren 
and  sisters,  who  have  come  to  these 
larger  cities  and  cannot  get  employ- 
ment, to  go  out  into  the  more  distant 
settlements.  I  believe  there  are  about 
as  good  openings  now  as  there  ever 
were.  There  are  many  places  where 
people  can  take  up  lands  yet,  or  can  get 
land  cheaply  and  have  a  chance  to 
work  for  the  land  they  get.  It  is  true 
they  cannot  take  up  large  tracts  of 
land  as  the  earlier  settlers  might  have 
done  if  they  had  so  desired,  but  they 
did  not  do  that.  The  counsel 
was  to  make  small  farms,  and 
we  have  seen  the  wisdom  of  this. 
The  brethren  who  will  go  out  now 
need  not  fear  that  they  will  starve  and 
will  be  in  want  of  anything.  Our  breth- 
ren and  sisters  out  in  the  country  feel 
to  help  those  who  come  into  their  m  dst. 
The  Industrial  Bureau,  which  was  es- 
tablished, I  hope  will  be  an  institution 
that  can  do  much  good  for  our  poor. 
Those  who  have  means  ought  to  study 


how  to  use  their  means  to  give  employ- 
ment, that  there  should  not  be  any  idle 
hands  in  Zion.  The  hoarding  up  of 
means,  trying  to  get  riches  for  riches' 
sake,  will  not  make  a  man  happy.  We 
had  a  text  read  here  this  morning  by 
Brother  Clawson,  which  I  think  is  an 
excellent  one.  The  prophet  advises  us 
before  seeking  riches,  that  we  should 
seek  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  after  we 
have  done  that,  then  he  promises  that 
we  shall  get  riches,  if  we  will  seek  them 
for  the  sole  purpose  of  doing  good.  I 
believe  the  Lord  will  bless  this  people 
and  make  them  a  rich  people  if  they 
will  first  seek  His  kingdom  and  Hi» 
righteousness,  and  providing  the  object 
in  gathering  riches  will  be  that  they 
may  be  able  to  do  more  good. 

"We  used  to  have  more  preaching 
upon  home  manufacture.  I  believe  those 
teachings  are  as  good  today  as  they 
were  years  ago.  What  if  we  cannot  fol- 
low the  fashions  from  abroad  to  so 
great  an  extent?  We  ought  to  make 
ourselves  a  self-sustaining  people;  we 
have  all  the  elements  right  here 
in  our  State  to  make  us 
such.  Yesterday  I  read  the 
report  of  Z.  C.  M.  I.  for  the  last  year. 
It  said  there  had  been  about  seventy 
thousand  pairs  of  shoes  made  by  that 
factory.  This  is  quite  a  step  toward 
stopping  the  importation  of  shoes.  If 
we  had  ten  such  factories  in  our  midst 
I  presume  we  could  supply  our  needs 
in  the  shoe  line.  The  report  also  stated 
that  they  had  made  some  one  hundred 
and  thirty  thousand  garments — over- 
alls and  jumpers.  I  was  pleased  with 
this  item.  Though  they  do  not  make 
much  money  in  these  departments,  yet 
they  keep  a  great  deal  of  means  in  our 
midst;  and  this  should  be  encouraged. 
We  should  encourage  all  of  our  home 
institutions  that  are  trying  to  stop  the 
outlet  of  means,  so  that  the  money  we 
obtain  can  be  kept  in  circulation  among 
us  a  longer  time.  Let  us  take  a  pride 
in  our  home  manufactures.  Let  us 
see  to  it  that  we  do  as  much  as  we  can 
to  give  our  poor  employment. 

I  am  sorry  to  think  our  tanneries 
have  not  been  a  success;  I  think  they 
could  be  made  so.  We  have  an  enor- 
mous lot  of  hides  going  out  from  this 
State.  They  are  tanned  abroad  and 
brought  back  here  in  a  manufactured 


ELDER  MARRINER   IV.  MERRILL. 


13 


shape.  We  could  retain  a  great  deal 
of  means  here  by  manufacturing  our 
own  leather.  Bark  is  not  easy  to  be 
secured  here,  but  perhaps  other  means 
of  obtaining  tannic  acid  can  be  had 
and  a  success  made  of  this  branch  of 
industry.  All  of  our  wool  that  goes 
out  and  is  brought  back  as  cloth  would 
have  been  a  great  saving  if  we  could 
have  manufactured  it  here,  and  then 
sent  it  out  as  manufactured  goods. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  there  are  so 
many  things  that  our  leading  brethren 
in  the  different  settlements  should 
study  and  think  of  and  advise  the  peo- 
ple to  do  that  we  may  be  a  prosperous 
people.  We  cannot  afford  to  keep  up 
the  style  we  do  and  do  it  on  raising 
wheat  and  selling  that  at  forty  cents 
a  bushel.  Some  change  must  be  had 
in  this.  I  noticed  when  I  was  back  on 
my  mission  in  visiting  my  native  land, 
Denmark, that  a  great  change  has  come 
over  that  country.  The^'  formerly  ex- 
ported their  rye  and  other  grain,  and 
while  they  did  so  they  were  a  poor 
people.  Of  late  years  they  import  grain, 
feed  it  to  their  stock  and  export  their 
butter,  their  eggs,  and  their  meat  to 
England.  They  have  been  able  to  ob- 
tain a  higher  price  for  their  articles  of 
export.  The  farms  there  are  prosper- 
ing, or  rather,  they  would  have  pros- 
pered, if  they  had  kept  to  their  old 
methods,  frugality  and  simple  man- 
ners; but  they  are  trying  to  educate 
their  boys  and  giving  them  city  appe- 
tites; they  can  not  live  on  their  coun- 
try incomes,  and  they  are  goins?-  into 
debt,  giving  mortgages  on  their  farms, 
while  they  are  getting  several  times 
as  much  means  as  they  were  wont  to 
do.  I  bring  this  up  for  our  considera- 
tion. I  believe  if  we  could  use  up  our 
grain  at  home  and  export  that  which 
does  not  weigh  so  much,  we  would  not 
have  to  pay  so  much  freight,  would 
have  more  means  and  make  ourselves 
more  independent. 

I  have  erot  on  the  subject  of  home 
manufacture.  I  believe  it  is  a  thing 
we  ought  to  study,  brethren  and  sisters, 
for  our  well  beingr  and  we  should  look 
after  the  poor  and  give  them  employ- 
ment. 

May  God  bless  you  all  and  bless  our 
leaders,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  MARRINER  W.  MERRILL. 

Expansiveness  of  the  Latter-day  Saints— Material 
Interests  of  the  people— Debt  should  be  avoided 
— A  porfitable  course  for  young  people — Value 
of  the  counsels  of  the  Priesthood. 

At  these  conferences  there  are  so 
many  subjects  discussed  that  they  can 
not  fail  to  be  edifying  to  all  of  the  peo- 
ple. If  only  one  subject  were  intro- 
duced and  all  of  the  speakers  dwelt 
upon  it,  perhaps  it  would  not  be  so  in- 
teresting. I  am  glad  to  be  associated 
with  my  brethren  and  sisters  in  this 
general  conference.  I  have  had  a  good 
many  reflections  in  listening  to  the  re- 
marks we  have  already  heard.  They 
have  brought  many  things  to  my  mind 
of  a  former  date  and  of  former  times 
here  in  this  country.  While  it  is  the 
privilege  of  all  Latter-day  Saints  to 
have  evidence  for  themselves  of  the 
truth  of  the  Gospel  and  of  the  divine 
mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  we  are 
not  only  instructed  and  reminded  on 
these  subjects,  but  are  reminded  of  af- 
fairs that  pertain  to  us  of  a  temporal 
character.  The  Latter-day  Saints  are 
growing  and  spreading  abroad. 

I  met  a  gentleman  on  the  train  the 
other  day  from  San  Francisco.  He  was 
born  and  raised  there;  and  he  hadn't 
heard  anything  about  our  people;  and 
he  seemed  very  anxious  to  know  some- 
thing about  the  doctrines  of  our 
Church.  I  said  to  him:  'We  have  a 
mission  established  in  California;  we 
have  Elders  laboring  in  the  city  where 
you  hail  from;  you  can  hear  our  Elders 
any  Sunday  if  you  will  inquire  after 
them;  and  you  can  become  acquainted 
with  the  doctrines  of  our  Church.'  He 
remarked  that  he  supposed  nearly  all 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  lived  in  Salt 
Lake  City,  and  that  during  the  last 
forty  years  there  had  not  been  much 
growth  among  them;  that  there  had 
not  been  much  expansion.  I  remarked 
to  him  that  I  was  surprised  that  a  man 
of  his  intelligence  was  not  better  ac- 
quainted with  this  people. 

Forty  years  ago  I  suppose  the  ma- 
jority of  the  Latter-day  Saints  were 
located  in  this  valley— Salt  Lake  Val- 
ley, but  today  they  are  spread  abroad 
and  I  advise  the  gentleman  to  get  our 
Church  works  and  read  them;  and  it 
was  a  good  opportunity  to  bear  my 
testimony  to  him  of  the  Gospel.  I  be- 
lieve there  are  many  hundreds  of  thou- 


14 


GENERAL  CONFEREE  CE. 


sands  of  good  honest  people  in  the 
world  that  have  but  a  very  limit- 
ed knowledge  and  perhaps  no 
knowledge  at  all  of  the  ex- 
istence of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  would 
naturally  suppose  that  everybody  had 
heard  of  us  from  what  has  been  said 
and  published  concerning  us;  but  there 
are  a.  great  many  people  that  have  not 
time  to  read  those  things.  It  is  on  a 
par  with  our  conferences.  A  great  many 
of  our  people  right  here  in  the  city  do 
not  have  time  to  come  to  conference; 
they  are  too  busy,  and  they  don't  know 
anything  of  what  is  being  done.  Thus 
it  is  with  the  world;  a  great  many  ot 
them  don't  know  that  such  a  people  ex- 
ist as  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  these 
mountains;  and  they  have  no  idea  of 
our  expansion,  our  growth,  and  our  de- 
velopment in  this  country. 

1  said  a  few  moments  ago  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  may  satisfy  them- 
selves with  regard  to  the  divine  mis 
sion  of  the  Prophet  Joseph;  and  what 
does  it  require  to  become  satisfied?  It 
requires  time  and  attention  and  a 
prayerful  and  thoughtful  consideration 
of  the  doctrines  of  the  Church,  and  of 
the  scriptures;  that  which  is  written 
in  the  Bible,  in  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
and  the  Church  publications.  Entreat 
the  Lord  in  regard  to  it  and  no  man 
will  be  turned  away.  It  is  said: 
"Knock  and  it  shall  be  opened  unto 
you;  ask  and  ye  shall  receive."  Do  this 
that  as  members  of  the  Church  you 
may  be  able  to  give  a  reason  for  the 
hope  that  you  have  and  have  a  testi- 
mony of  this  work  .  There  are  a  great 
many  conditions  existing  among  the 
Lattei  -day  Saints  on  which  we  may 
improve.  Apostle  Lund  referred  to 
home  manufacture.  But  little  has  been 
said  a  tout  it  of  late  years.  There  was 
a  time  when  there  was  quite  an  excite- 
ment raised  throughout  the  country 
about  home  production.  I  presume 
those  things  are  going  forward  gradu- 
ally, as  we  can  find  a  great  many 
things  of  home  production  throughout 
the  couniry.  It  is  a  good  thing  and  we 
should  encourage  it,  sustain  it,  think 
about  it,  study  about  it,  not  only  here 
but  in  all  of  the  organizations  of  the 
Church.  It  is  a  grand  thing  to  be  self- 
rupporting  An  individual,  a  family, 
or  a  community  that  is  self-supporting 


is  the  best  off.  They  are  easiest  in  their 
circumstances. 

I  believe  we  have  made  many  mis- 
takes in  the  past  as  a  people 
and  as  individuals;  and  there  is  no 
doubt  but  that  we  will  continue  to 
make  mistakes  from  time  to  time,  be- 
cause our  judgments  are  not  perfect, 
and  we  follow  the  solicitations  of  our 
families  and  of  our  friends,  and  indulge 
in  things  that  we  should  not  indulge  in. 
It  is  my  opinion  that  we  are  being  led 
to  habits  of  extravagance  and  the  result 
will  be  serious.  It  militates  against  us, 
and  it  militates  against  our  improve- 
ment and  advancement.  I  was  think- 
ing while  Brother  Lund  was  talking 
about  the  poor  being  employed,  that  if 
every  man  and  woman  in  the  Church 
(because  there  are  sisters  that  manage 
things  for  themselves),  that  are  able 
would  employ  some  one  or  two  or  more 
as  their  circumstances  would  warrant 
there  would  be  nobody  looking  for 
work;  everybody  would  be  employed. 
There  are  people  that  have  natural  en- 
dowments enough  from  the  Ixjrd  to 
direct  the  labors  of  others  to  their  own 
profit  and  to  the  profit  of  those  whom 
they  employ.  This  is  a  matter  for  con- 
sideration by  those  who  have  means,  to 
employ  some  of  our  poor.  In  some  of 
the  counties  they  begin  to  feel  like 
throwing  the  poor  on  the  county  to  sup- 
port. They  say:  'We  pay  our  taxes  to 
the  county  and  the  State  and  the  poor 
should  receive  consideration  from  our 
officials  in  the  county  capacity  or  in 
the  State  capacity  as  the  case  may  be. 
I  do  not  think  this  is  the  proper  thing. 
I  do  not  think  there  should  be  anybody 
foisted  upon  the  county  for  support.  If 
we  turn  the  poor  off,  peradventure  the 
Lord  will  turn  us  off,  for  He  said:  'The 
poor  ye  have  always,  but  me  ye  have 
not  always.'  I  do  not  believe  we  can 
afford  to  turn  the  poor  off  on  the  coun- 
ty for  support.  I  believe  if  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  would  turn  their  ear  to  the 
Lord  and  listen  to  the  counsel  of  His 
servants  that  there  would  be  means 
provided  in  all  the  settlements  of  the 
Saints  to  provide  for  the  poor.  They 
should  not  be  turned  on  the  Church 
either  for  support,  but  they  should  be 
provided  for  as  the  Lord  has  directed. 
It  is  my  firm  conviction,  coupled  with 
my  experience,  that  if  the  poor  were 
properly  looked  after  in  every  ward  and 


ELDER  MARRINER   W>.  MERRILL. 


15 


the  people  were  particular  to  under- 
stand the  necessities  of  the  poor,  every 
■ward  (there  may  be  some  exceptions) 
could  support  its  poor  without  turn- 
ing them  on  the  county  or  Church  for 
support.  There  are  places  in  the 
Church  where  comparatively  there  are 
no  poor.  Well,  the  responsibility  rests 
upon  the  people  to  contribute  of  their 
offerings  for  the  benefit  of  the  poor 
just  as  much  as  if  they  had  plenty  of 
poor  to  consume  all  they  gave  in.  The 
counties  have  plenty  of  use  for  their 
means.  "We  have  lived  here  a  good 
many  years  and  in  some  places  it  is 
difficult  to  travel  because  of  the  condi- 
tions of  the  roads  and  highways.  The 
counties  have  plenty  of  places  to  put 
their  means  for  the  benefit  of  the  great 
public.  They  can  make  our  highways 
such  as  they  are  in  the  oldei  coun- 
tries. 

I  heard  day  before  yesterday  from 
an  eminent  financier,  a  remark  that 
struck  me  with  considerable  force.  He 
was  telling  me  how  to  get  out  of  debt. 
It  may  be  that  you  would  like  to  know, 
for  I  imagine  ia  good  many  of  our  people 
here  are  in  debt.  This  brother  of  long 
experience,  who  had  passed  through 
the  mill,  told  me  how  to  get  out  of 
debt  and  how  the  people  could  get  out 
of  debt.  I  listened  with  a  good  deal 
of  attention,  because  I  thought  it  was 
worth  something,  and  something  that 
all  of  us  ought  to  know,  for  a  great 
many  of  us  don't  know  and  have  it 
yet  to  learn.  It  was  simply  this:  "Stop 
immediately  from  going  into  debt. 
Don't  go  into  debt  another  dollar  until 
you  get  out  and  are  free."  That  is  a 
simple  way,  and  it  might  prove  to  be 
an  easy  way,  too,  if  we  would  do  it. 
Stop  going  into  debt;  don't  buy  any- 
thing you  can't  pay  for  from  this  time 
henceforth  until  it  can  be  said,  "Israel 
Is  free;  there  is  a  free  people,  un- 
trammeled,  not  in  bondage  up  there  in 
the  mountains;  they  are  lenders,  not 
borrowers;  they  will  lend  you  money 
if  you  will  give  them  good  security." 
This  is  the  situation  the  Lord  will 
bring  us  to  bye  and  bye,  when  He 
educates  us  a  little  further  and  takes 
us  through  the  school  of  experience. 
We  will  come  to  this  because  the  Lord 
has  designed  it.  It  is  said  that  the  peo- 
ple of  the  Lord  will  be  a  rich  people. 
I  believe  this.    I  have  heard  promises 


from  our  eminent  brethren  of  experi- 
ence to  the  effect  that  the  Lord  would 
help  us  this  one  time  if  we  would 
help  ourselves  in  the  future  and  cease 
our  habits  of  extravagance.  Every- 
where, in  all  of  our  homes,  we  should 
cease  these  habits  of  extravagance; 
learn  to  economize;  learn  to  save;  learn 
to  be  prudent,  wise,  and  judicious  in 
the  administration  of  our  affairs. 

And  young  people  that  are  of  a  mar- 
riageable age  should  get  married.  I 
don't  mean  to  become  engaged  and  then 
wait  two  or  three  years,  or  one  year — to 
become  engaged  and  think  they  are 
just  about  as  good  as  married.  I  advise 
that  they  get  married  when  they  are  of 
a  proper  age,  and  when  they  are  mar- 
ried to  cease  as  soon  as  possible  to 
work  for  wages.  Go  out  and  do  some- 
thing for  yourselves.  Go  somewhere; 
there  are  many  opportunities  in  the 
West  and  in  the  South.  We  receive  let- 
ters from  people  all  over  the  country 
telling  of  opportunities  for  young  peo- 
ple to  commence  in  life,  settle  down, and 
become  independent;  where  they  can 
make  themselves  homes  and  rear  their 
children  in  the  fear  and  admonition  of 
the  Lord.  This  idea  of  people  always 
working  for  a  salary  with  nothing  else 
to  depend  upon, I  don't  believe  is  a  good 
thing  for  young  people.  I  believe  they 
ought  to  become  independent,  and  not 
depend  always  upon  some  one  else  for 
a  livelihood.  It  is  true  it  is  very  pleas- 
ant to  be  in  the  city;  it  is  very  pleasant 
to  have  the  society  there  is  in  the  city, 
and  to  have  the  amusement  and  the 
natural  advantages  that  accrue  to  the 
people;  but  the  question  is,  can  you  af- 
ford it  as  young  people?  I  know  there 
is  an  idea  growing  up  in  the  midst  of 
the  young  people  that  they  can  not  get 
married  until  they  have  as  much  as 
their  father  or  their  mother;  they  must 
have  a  nice  home,  well  furnished  before 
they  can  take  a  life  partner.  I  be-ieve 
this  is  wrong.  I  believe  young  people  of 
a  proper  age  ought  to  get  married  and 
they  ought  to  depend  upon  themselves; 
and  a  young  man  should  marry  a  young 
woman  that  is  willing  to  put  forth  her 
efforts  to  help.  Get  a  helpmeet;  one 
that  will  help  to  make  your  advances  in 
life;  help  to  make  you  a  home;  help  to 
sustain  the  family;  and  will  do  some- 
thing for  the  good  of  the  community. 
This  would  be  my  advice  and  my  coun- 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


sel  to  our  young  people.  Cease  enter- 
taining- this  idea  that  you  cannot  get 
married  until  you  have  a  home  furnish- 
ed and  everything  pertaining  to  it;  nice 
surroundings,  nice  lawn  and  all  such. 
Make  the  lawn  yourself,  and  make  your 
home  just  as  beautiful  as  you  desire. 
It  is  a  good  thing  to  have  these  sur- 
roundings; it  is  proper;  but  when  it 
oomes  to  putting  off  the  important 
things  in  life,the  important  matters,  for 
a  few  years,  until  circum- 
stances are  such  that  they  can 
marry,  I  don't  believe  it 
is  a  good  thing.  That  is  the  way  of  the 
world.  They  have  grown  up  with  that 
idea  in  our  large  cities.  Young  peo- 
ple become  enamored  of  city  life.  It 
is  a  good  thing  to  have  cities,  but  it  is 
a  good  thing  for  young  people  to  re- 
flect and  think  over  these  things;  and 
when  they  earn  a  dollar  they  should 
know  how  it  comes.  People  who  earn 
their  money  know  just  exactly  how  it 
comes,  and  they  know  better  how  to 
save  it.  These  things  should  have  the 
consideration  of  the  young  people. 
They  should  also  be  considered  by 
the  parents,  because  parents  sometimes 
feel:  "O,  I  don't  want  my  son  to  go 
away  off  out  there,  and  I  don't  want  my 
daughter  to  go  away  from  me  and  go 
out  in  the  country  somewhere;"  and 
young  people  get  discouragement  many 
times  from  their  parents.  These  things 
I  know  to  be  a  fact,  and  I  do  not  be- 
lieve they  have  good  results. 

Our  people  are  a  growing  and  pros- 
perous people,  and  we  should  observe 
the  counsels  of  the  servants  of  God  in 
regard  to  these  things.  This  is  a  mat- 
ter that  is  becoming  more  or  less  in 
disuse  among  the  Latter-day  Saints — 
to  listen  to  the  whisperings  of  the  Lord 
through  His  servants.  I  repeat,  it  is 
becoming  more  or  less  in  disuse  among 
the  people!  and  the  older  ones  are 
educating  the  young  people  that  it  is 
not  so  very  important  to  listen  to  the 
counsels  of  the  servants  of  God.  But  I 
want  to  say  unto  you  that  according  to 
my  education  and  experience  in  the 
Church  there  is  no  other  way  whereby 
we  may  be  saved;  there  is  no  other  way 
whereby  we  may  be  exalted;  there  is 
no  other  way  whereby  we  may  obtain 
eternal  life.  We  must  yield  to  the 
whisperings  of  the  Holy  Spirit;  we 
must  yield  to  the  counsels  of  the  Priest- 


hood, no  matter  what  the  world  may 
think  in  regard  to  these  things.  It  is  a 
principle  that  God  has  established  in 
the  earth;  God  has  established  it  and 
we  can  not  change  it.  Those  that  will 
listen,  and  turn  their  ears  to  the  Lord 
will  be  on  the  right  side  bye  and  bye; 
when  the  sheep  are  separated  from  the 
goats,  those  who  have  listened  to  the 
whisperings  of  the  Lord  through  His 
servants  will  be  found  on  the  right  side; 
and  they  will  be  remembered  and  they 
will  have  said  to  them:  "Come  ye 
blessed  of  my  Father,  etc."  Accord- 
ing to  my  education  and  experience 
in  the  Church,  and  according  to 
the  teachings  I  have  had  and  the 
suggestions  through  the  inspiration  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  there  is  no  man,  I  don't 
care  what  his  standing  is;  he  may  be 
a  president  of  a  stake,  or  an  apostle, 
no  matter,  he  can  not  safely  gainsay 
the  counsel  of  the  Priesthood.  If  he  does 
he  will  have  it  to  meet  some  day  just 
as  sure  as  the  sun  rises  and  sets.  I 
know  this  as  well  as  I  know  that  1 
look  upon  this  congregation.  We  must 
observe  the  will  of  the  Lord;  we  must 
observe  the  counsels  of  the  Priesthood, 
no  matter  what  the  world  may  think 
in  regard  to  these  things;  and  we  can 
do  this  in  all  humility  and  maintain 
our  right  and  manhood,  and  maintain 
our  fellowship  with  each  other  and  with 
the  Lord:  but  when  we  turn  away  from 
these  things  we  are  like  the  sow  that 
was  washed  and  returned  to  her  wal- 
lowing in  the  mire.  The  Lord  has  es- 
tablished His  work;  He  is  about  to  es- 
tablish His  kingdom;  He  has  revealed 
the  everlasting  Gospel;  and  He  has 
revealed  the  principle  by  which 
you  and  I  may  go  back  into 
His  presence;  but  when  we 
turn  a  deaf  ear  to  these  things, 
through  some  motive  or  other  that  may 
arise  in  our  minds,  we  will  have  to 
atone  for  it  sooner  or  later.  Write  it 
down  in  your  journals  if  you  please,  be- 
cause these  are  eternal  principles  of 
truth  revealed  to  the  Latter-day  Saints! 
We  are  in  advance  of  the  world  in  re- 
gard to  these  things.  The  Lord  has  been 
merciful  to  us.  He  has  given  us  line 
upon  line,  precept  upon  precept;  here 
a  little  and  there  a  little;  not  given  it 
to  us  all  at  one  time.  We  did  not  have 
everything  revealed  in  the  days  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph;  but  we  do  not  live  up 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


17 


to  what  was  revealed  in  his  day.  There 
are  a  great  many  things  revealed  to  His 
servants  iiom  time  to  time  that  imme- 
diately concern  the  people.  Many  o! 
the  revelations  in  the  Book  of 
Covenants  concerning  the  people  at 
the  time  they  were  given,  and 
there  are  revelations  given  that  con- 
cern the  people  today.  The  Bible  is  an 
excellent  record,  a  good  book  to  study, 
a  good  book  to  become  acquainted  with. 
The  Book  of  Mormon  is  an  excellent  re- 
cord, and  precious  truths  are  contained 
in  it  as  well  as  the  Bible,  and  the  Book 
of  Covenants  is  an  excellent  book  giveiv 
from  the  Lord,  but  the  whole  of  them 
together  are  not  all  that  we  need,  be- 
cause as  circumstances  and  conditions 
change  with  the  people,  the  Lord  has 
His  mouthpiece  to  say  what  shall  bt> 
done  nr.d  how  it  shall  be  done  and  on 
what  occasions  it  shall  be  done.  That  i& 
not  written  perhaps  at  all. You  may  hunt 
through,  and  through  these  books,  and 
you  would  not  find  what  you  want  to 
know.  What  shall  we  do?  Turn  our 
ear  to  the  Lord  and  to  the  counsels 
of  His  Prophet  and  of  His  servants, 
and  then  we  will  be  in  harmony  with 
the  Bible,  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the 
Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and 
in  harmony  with  the  Lord;  but  when 
we  depart  from  this  and  go  astray,  we 
are  liable  to  be  led  into  the  dark,  and 
when  those  who  have  been  in  the  light 
get  in  the  dark,  u,  "how  great  is  that 
darkness!"  These  are  matters  for  our 
consideration.  In  our  secret  places  we 
should  sit  in  judgment  upon  ourselves 
and  ask  ourselves  such  questions:  How 
has  been  my  course  today;  has  it  been 
approved  of  the  Lord?  We  may  know 
by  the  whisperings  of  the  Holy  Spirit 
whether  or  not  our  course  has  been  ap- 
proved by  the  Lord;  and  if  we  feel  con- 
demned, then  we  may  know  that  there 
is  something  wrong  with  us.  We  want 
to  be  wise  and  prudent;  want  to  be 
kind  and  good  to  one  another;  and  learn 
to  love  one  another;  to  love  the  Gospel 
and  the  work  of  God  above  everything 
else  in  the  world.  We  get  into  a  cer- 
tain groove  and  think  we  must  hang 
to  that  groove,and  we  can  not  be  pulled 
out  of  it.  It  is  not  a  good  thing  for 
any  of  us  to  get  into  grooves.  Here 
are  the  living  oracles  of  the  Church 
that  God  has  placed  here  to  regulate 
all  of  the  affairs  of  the  people,  not  only 


in  spiritual  things  but  temporal  things 
as  well— in  building  up  the  various  cit- 
ies, in  opening  and  developing  the 
country.  Who  knows  better  than  the 
Lord?  And  may  not  His  servants  have 
the  whisperings  of  His  Holy  Spirit  to 
direct  them?  Certainly;  that  is  what 
the  Lord  has  placed  them  in  the  Church 
for;  and  that  is  why  we  vote  to  sustain 
them  in  their  position.  We  sustain 
the  President  as  President  of  the 
Church  in  all  the  world.  But  how  do 
we  sustain  him?  Do  we  consider  our 
vote?  Do  we  consider  the  covenants 
we  have  made  with  the  Lord  when  we 
turn  a  deaf  ear  to  the  counsels  of  the 
Priesthood? 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  be  just, 
let  us  be  true,  let  us  be  kind,  and  give 
to  the  poor;  and  let  us  pay  our  tithing 
as  well  as  our  offerings.  This  is  the 
will  of  the  Lord;  and  who  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints  is  any  poorer  for 
having  paid  his  or  her  tithing?  No- 
body who  has  done  this  and  contributed 
to  the  building  up  of  the  kingdom  of 
God  and  to  the  spreading  of  the  Gospel 
in  various  lands.  Let  us  not  forget  the 
Lord  in  our  tithes  and  our  offerings. 
If  we  do,  peradventure,  He  will  for- 
get us.  If  we  want  to  be  remembered 
of  the  Lord  we  should  remember  Him 
in  our  tithes  and  our  offerings;  devote 
ourselves  to  the  work  of  the  Lord  and 
the  Lord  will  be  merciful  to  us. 

God  bless  you.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 

The  great  and  beneficent  physical  and  spiritual 
effects  brought  to  the  world  by  the  organization 
of  the  Church. 

We  have  had  at  this  Conference,  so 
far,  some  very  practical  instructions 
and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  has  been 
manifestly  in  our  midst.  I  have  had  a 
good  many  reflections,  that  I  hope  will 
be  profitable  to  me;  and  if  I  can  relate 
some  of  them,  I  would  like  to  do  so 
this  afternoon.  In  sitting  here  and  con- 
templating that  which  has  taKen  place, 
and  this  large  congregation,  ihe  reflec- 
tion occurs  to  me  that  this  is  the  com- 
pletion of  sixty-nine  years  since 
this  Church  was  organized,  since  the 
Lord  commenced  this  great  work  of 
which  we  form  a  part,  and  there  are 
many  interesting  thoughts  connected 
with  this  event. 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  could  not  help  but  think  of  pome 
of  the  results  of  this  organization  of 
six  members  into  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  sixty  nine 
years  ago.  What  has  it  done  for  the 
world?  What  changes  have  been 
wrought  by  the  establishment  of  this 
Church?  How  much  better  is  the  world 
for  its  organization!  How  much  better 
are  we,  who  are  members  of  this 
Church  than  we  would  have  been  had 
it  not  been  organized  in  our  day! 
Sixty-nine  years  ago  but  little  or  noth- 
ing was  known  about  God.  Communi- 
cation between  heaven  and  earth  had 
entirely  ceased.  Every  popular  minis- 
ter, and  every  man  of  science,  every 
man  that  made  any  pretension  to  edu- 
cation, declared  at  that  time  that  God 
had  ceased  to  talk  to  man;  that  all 
communication  between  heaven  and 
earth  had  been  entirely  cut  off;  that 
God  had  spoken  eighteen  hundred  years 
before  and  had  revealed  His  will,  but 
since  then  He  had  remaitied  silent.  No 
man  had  heard  His  voice;  no  man  bad 
beheld  His  person;  no  man  had  received 
communication  from  Him;  but  all' were 
left  to  wander  as  they  pleased,  to  be 
guided  by  that  which  had  been  written 
so  long  before.  The  personality  of  God 
Himself  was  unknown.  Extraordinary 
ideas  prevailed  as  to  the  character  of 
our  God.  That  which  had  been  written 
in  the  Scriptures  concerning  Him  had 
been  looked  upon  as  spiritual;  to  be 
spiritualized  and  not  real.  He  was  de- 
clared not  to  be  a  personage  of  taber- 
nacle, not  to  be  able  to  walk,  nor  to 
talk,  nor  to  hear,  having  none 
of  these  organs  by  which  com- 
munication was  had;  but  that  He 
was  a  spirit,  diffused  through 
space.  The  most  extraordinary  ideas 
prevailed  on  this  subject.  The  commu- 
nication of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  dissipated  that  ignorance;  it 
gave  to  mankind  a  knowledge  of  God; 
it  restored  to  the  earth  the  gifts  and 
graces  of  the  Gospel;  it  removed  doubt 
concerning  the  plan  of  salvation;  it  re- 
vealed clearly  the  ordinances,  by  obe- 
dience to  which  man  could  be  saved.  It 
has  had  the  effect  of  bringing  the  Gos- 
pel, the  word  of  God,  the  salvation  of 
God,  to  the  poorest  and  to  the  humblest 
on  the  earth. 

We  heard  this  morning  about  class 
distinctions.   No  power  could  have  been 


more  effective  in  leveling  class  distinc- 
tions, and  it  may  be  said  in  destroying 
them,  than  the  revelation  of  this  Gos- 
pel and  the  establishment  of  this 
Church.  The  thousands  who  have  heard 
the  Gospel  in  various  lands,  in  lands  of 
oppression,  in  the  midst  of  poverty  and 
destitution  and  hopelessness,  where 
there  was  no  prospect  before  them  and 
their  children,  only  to  toil  and  live  lives 
of  drudgery,  of  poverty  and  deprivation 
— the  thousands  who  in  this  condition 
have  heard  the  message  of  salvation 
have  had  their  hearts  gladdened;  it  has 
been  an  emancipation  for  them,  or  a 
means  of  emancipation  to  deliver  them 
from  these  sad  and  disheartening  cir- 
cumstances, because  this  brought  to 
them  a  knowledge  that  they  were  the 
children  of  God,  equally  valuable,  it 
may  be  said,  equally  esteemed  in  the 
presence  of  God  with  those  who  pos- 
sessed so  many  advantages  over  them. 
The  toiler  in  Europe,  the  man  working 
in  the  mines  in  England  or  in  Scotland, 
the  toiler  in  Germany  and  in  Scandina- 
via— these  men  so  low  that  they  were 
almost  deprived  of  all  hope,  have  heard 
the  Gospel.  It  has  come  as  a  salvation 
to  them  and  a  means  of  deliverance.  I 
heard  one  man  say,  who  is  now  a  Bish- 
op in  the  north,  that  in  Scandinavia, 
where  he  lived,  he  envied  the  posi- 
tion of  the  horse,  and  wished  he  had 
been  born  a  horse.  Why?  Because  the 
horse  was  cared  for;  the  horse  was  fed; 
the  horse  was  carefully  housed;  he  had 
value;  when  he  died  it  was  a  loss  to  his 
master;  but  as  to  him,  the  working 
man,  he  might  die,  and  what  loss  would 
it  be  to  anybody?  Not  to  his  master.  It 
might  be  to  his  wife,  or  to  his  children, 
but  not  to  his  master.  He  could  toil, 
could  go  hungry;  he  could  go  partly 
clad;  he  could  go  miserably  housed  and 
provided  for;  the  animal  that 
possessed  value  was  worth  something; 
that  could  be  cared  for,  carefully 
blanketed  at  night,  fed  well  and  kept 
in  a  warm  stable,  and  if  he  were  sick 
taken  care  of  that  he  might  not  die. 
This  man's  statement  concerning  his 
feelings  was  very_  strongly  put;  but 
his  condition  was  that  of  thousands 
when  this  Gospel  reached  them.  What 
has  it  done  for  them?  It  has  lifted  them 
up;  it  has  made  them  feel  that  they 
are  the  children  of  God — peers  of  every 
one  else  on  the  earth,  no  matter  how 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON 


19 


rich,  no  matter  how  learned,  no  matter 
how  many  advantages  others  may  pos- 
sess, tney  are  equal  before  the  Lord 
with  all  of  them.  "Mormonism"  has 
done  this  for  the  world.  It  has  made 
every  man,  that  is  worthy,  a  Priest  of 
God;  it  has  had  this  effect.  You  have 
heard  talk  today  about  prophets;  you 
have  heard  talk  about  oracles;  you 
have  heard  talk  about  leaders  and  men 
being  entrusted  with  authority;  but 
there  is  nothing  that  is  said  about  an> 
one  of  these  that  does  not  apply  to  every 
man  in  this  Church.  Every  man  thai 
has  embraced  this  Gospel  is  raised  to 
this  dignity  and  to  this  power.  There- 
fore, this  Church  has  been  a  great 
blessing  to  the  poor  of  every  land. 
Those  who  have  heard  this  Gospel  have 
been  delivered  by  it  from  their  bond- 
age and  from  their  oppression,  and  they 
are  brought  to  a  land  of  liberty  where 
they  can  receive  of  the  benefits  that 
liner  tv  bestows  and  all  of  the  advant- 
ages which  the  Lord  has  promised  to 
the  inhabitants  of  this  land.  These,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  are  some  of  the 
blessings  that  have  flowed  to  us  in 
sixtj'-nine  years. 

When  I  reflect  upon  all  of  the  conse- 
quences that  have  followed  that  great 
and  important  event,  although  so  little 
noticed  \yy  the  world,  my  mind  fails  to 
grasp  it  in  all  its  details,  the  benefits 
are  so  numerous.  They  extend  in  so 
many  directions,  not  only  to  us  who 
have  received  this  Gospel,  but  to  the 
world  at  large.  They  feel  the  effect  of 
it.  Contemplate  the  condition  of  tht. 
world  when  this  Gospel  was  restored! 
What  was  known  about  heaven?  What 
was  known  about  hell?  There  are  two 
places,  one  of  bliss,  the  other  a  place  of 
torment.  How  much  terror  was  enter- 
tained by  the  people  at  large  con- 
cerning this  place  of  torment.  To  have 
to  think  that  this  was  endless;  to  think 
how  the  hearts  of  mothers  were  wrung 
with  anguish  at  the  death  of  their 
wayward  children,  of  their  loved  ones, 
when  they  were  told  by  men  who  as- 
sumed authority  and  to  whom  they  had 
been  taught  to  look  with  respect,  that 
they  were  eternally  damned — sent  to  a 
place  of  torment  worlds  without  end! 
Think  of  the  misery  of  human  souls  in 
contemplating  such  fearful  results!  Is 
it  any  wonder  that  men  wished  they 
had  never  been  born?    They  did  not 


know  what  to  do.  Suicide  brought  no 
relief;  they  could  not  get  deliverance 
from  the  inexorable  consequences  of 
living,  because  their  souls  were  indes- 
tructible. They  could  not  hope  to  es- 
cape from  the  justice  of  God,  go 
where  they  might.  And  this  feeling  of 
hopelessness  and  misery  filled  thous- 
ands of  bosoms,  millions,  I  may  say; 
but  what  did  this  Gospel  do?  It  brought 
light  from  God,  the  author  of  our  being. 
Instead  of  thinking  it  was  a  bad  con- 
dition to  be  born,  it  produced  a  feeling 
of  gladness  in  the  hearts  of  men  and 
women  that  they  ever  had  been  born; 
because  when  they  saw  the  justice  of 
God,  that  they  would  get  rewarded  ac- 
cording to  the  deeds  done  in  the  body,, 
all  fear  vanished,  for  they  would  be 
dealt  with  by  a  just  and  merciful  God 
and  not  a  tyrant,  such  as  the  world 
described  the  Lord  to  be. 

Not  only  this,  but  think  of  the  glad 
tidings  of  salvation  that  have  come  to 
us  through  the  revelations  that  God  has 
given  to  this  Church  respecting  the 
dead  and  their  future  fate.  Before, 
the  popular  idea  was  that  the  unnum- 
bered millions  of  heathen  who  had  died 
in  ignorance  of  the  Gospel  had  been 
sent  to  this  endless  place  of  torment; 
that  they  were  sent  to  hell  without  any 
hope  of  deliverance  through  the  endless 
ages  of  eternity.  The  feeling  of  those 
who  would  dare  think  upon  this  subject, 
when  such  thoughts  were  presented  to 
them,  was  only  to  hate,  as  a  monster, 
the  God  who  would  do  such  things. 
What  could  be  more  monstrous  than  to 
send  innocent  people  to  hell  for  not  be- 
ing that  which  they  knew  nothing  of? 
No  wonder  that  men  revolted  at  the 
thought.  No  wonder  that  men  defied 
the  Almighty  under  such  misconcep- 
tions. The  Gospel  has  brought  to  us 
revelations  concerning  this.  We  see 
our  God  in  all  His  beauty;  in  all  His 
grandeur;  clothed  with  all  those  at- 
tributes that  call  forth  our  highest  ad- 
miration and  worship.  We  can  worship 
Him  in  spirit  and  in  truth. 

What  has  the  organization  of  this 
Church  done  for  us  in  regard  to  the 
future?  Why,  heaven  is  no  longer  a 
place  that  is  vague  and  indefinite  in 
our  minds,  or  in  the  minds  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men  to  whom  revelation  has 
come.  Heaven  is  something  to  be  de- 
sired;  not  to  sit  idly  and  play  upon 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


golden  harps;  but  heaven  is  a  place  of 
activity,  a  place  of  progress;  that  which 
furnishes  man  his  highest  enjoyment  on 
the  earth;  that  which  develops  and 
calls  out  his  highest  and  noblest  qual- 
ities, we  are  to  have  in  heaven.  And  this 
is  no  new  revelation;  but  it  is  beclouded 
and  misunderstood  by  the  world. 
"Thou  hast  been  faithful  over  a  few 
things,  I  will  make  thee  ruler  over 
many,"  the  Scriptures  say.  "What  does 
that  mean?  That  the  man  who  has 
done  his  duty  in  his  sphere  here  on  the 
earth  faithfully  will  have  an  enlarged 
sphere  hereafter;  will  have  greater 
power,  more  opportunities  for  develop- 
ment; shall  have  every  God-like  power; 
every  power  and  attribute  that  we 
have  derived  from  our  ancestry— that 
is,  from  God  our  Eternal  Father.  We 
shall  have  room  for  infinite  gratifica- 
tion, unlimited  gratification,  going  on 
from  one  degree  of  power  to  another, 
and  exercising  it  as  our  Father  exercises 
it  in  the  midst  of  the  eternities.  Is 
there  not  something  delightful  in  this 
thought,  and  in  the  contemplation  of 
such  a  future?  If  I  have  children;  if  I 
have  a  wife,  I  shall  have  them  in 
eternity.  I  shall  preside  over  that  fam- 
ily no  matter  how  small  it  may  be,  or 
how  large  it  may  extend.  They  will 
be  my  kingdom;  for  this  is  the  promise 
of  God.  What  is  there  that  is  more  de- 
lightful in  the  contemplation  of  the  fu- 
ture than  this  thought,  that  those  with 
whom  we  are  associated  here,  with 
whom  our  lives  and  happiness  is  en- 
twined; who  give  unto  us  the  greatest 
pleasure,  because  of  the  love  we  have 
for  them  and  they  have  for  us;  that 
that  union  shall  be  perpetuated 
throughout  eternity,  and  that  there 
shall  be  an  increase  of  that  love  and  of 
that  union  and  an  increase  also  of  that 
power,  because  the  power  of  procreation 
is  promised — the  greatest  power  that 
man  possesses  on  the  earth.  That  is 
promised  unto  those  who  are  faithful. 
I  know  the  world  say  this  is  material- 
istic; that  we  take  wrong  views  of 
this;  that  we  are  not  spiritual  enough. 
Well,  I  am  willing  to  have  that 
charge  levelled  against  me.  I  want 
to  be  materialistic  in  this  sense. 
I  want  to  enjoy  that  which  we  enjoy 
here,  purified,  exalted,  and  increased 
beyond  my  comprehension  or  your  com- 
prehension at  the  present  time;  and 


we  are  to  have  this  glory  and  this 
power;  the  Lord  promises  it  unto  us. 
Therefore,  it  can  be  said  of  us  as  it 
was  said  of  our  Lord  and  Savior,  "to 
the  increase  of  His  kingdom  there  shall 
be  no  end."  Why?  Because  of  this 
principle  that  I  spoke  of— the  principle 
of  procreation.  By  it,  and  through 
that  principle  the  worlds  are  peopled. 
The  planetary  orbs  which  stud  our 
heavens  so  gloriouslv  are  peopled  by 
that  principle— the  principle  of  pro- 
creation. God  possesses  it,  and  we  as 
His  children  inherit  the  power.  If  we 
do  what  is  right  He  promises  to  bestow 
it  upon  us.  Our  heaven,  then,  is  ma- 
terialistic in  this  sense;  it  is  not  al- 
together spiritual.  But  it  is  spiritual 
also.  We  shall  have  spiritual  joy;  we 
shall  have  spiritual  pleasures  such  as 
have  been  described  to  us  this  day,  for 
it  is  the  highest  pleasure  or  joy  the 
human  soul  is  capable  of,  to  worship 
God,  to  do  His  will,  keep  His  com- 
mandments and  to  serve  Him.  This 
is  the  highest  pleasure  that  human  be- 
ings can  attain  unto,  and  we  shall  have 
it  in  eternity,  and  it  shall  be  the  chief 
source  of  our  enjoyment  and  of  our 
happiness  in  the  world  to  come. 

These  are  a  few  of  the  blessings  that 
have  come  to  us  through  the  revela- 
tion of  the  Gospel  and  the  organization 
of  the  Church  sixty-nine  years  ago 
today.  Think  of  it!  What  happiness 
it  has  brought  to  us  individually!  Each 
man  and  each  woman  in  this  congrega- 
tion could  tell  this  for  himself  or  her- 
self. Each  one  could  reflect  upon  the 
benefits  that  have  flowed  to  him  or  her 
individually.  Contemplate  the  great- 
ness of  the  work,  the  effect  of  the  work 
tipon  the  whole  world  wherever  this 
Gospel  has  been  preached,  and  it  has 
been  carried  to  many  lands.  It  has 
brought  release  to  many  cap- 
tives; it  has  gladdened  the  hearts 
of  the  people  of  the  civilized 
nations.  It  has  reached  even  the 
barbarians,  and  it  has  gladdened 
their  hearts.  It  has  inspire.!  the  hearts 
of  our  Indian  races  with  new  hope,  for 
they  have  had  presented  to  them  the 
promises  of  God  made  to  their  fathers, 
and  they  look  forward  to  their  ful- 
fillment, and  they  look  forward 
with  joy  to  their  redemption 
It  has  been  proclaimed  to  som 
extent     to     the     Jews,     though  th 


PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 


21 


time  has  not  yet  come  for  them  to 
embrace  it.  Still,  it  comes  with  the 
promise.and  filled  with  the  hope  to  these 
scattered  remnants  of  the  House  of  Is- 
real,  these  despised  people  who  are 
persecuted  in  lands  of  civilization,  be- 
cause they  are  assured  that  the  prom- 
ises concerning'  them  and  their  restora- 
tion to  their  ancient  land  will  be  ful- 
filled. It  has  brought  hope  to  the 
islands  of  the  Pacific,  to  those  despised 
races  who  have  before  them  extinction 
unless  this  Gospel  saves  them;  and  it 
has  filled  them  with  hope  and  anticipa- 
tion. In  fact,  it  has  gladdened  the 
hearts  of  the  people  of  every  land  who 
have  heard  the  glad  tidings  of  salvation. 
It  has  had  more  to  do  to  dissipate  ig- 
norance and  to  save  mankind  than  any 
other  agency  that  has  ever  existed 
among  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth 
since  the  days  of  the  Redeemer.  We 
can  well  spend  money  to  send  our  mis- 
sionaries with  such  glad  tidings  as  they 
are  to  bear.  We  can  do  this  freely,  be- 
cause the  results  are  such  as  to  gladden 
us  and  to  make  us  rejoice  that  we  have 
the  opportunity  of  doing  this.  I  would 
like  to  send  every  son  I  have,  if  cir- 
cumstances would  permit,  to  the  world 
to  deliver  the  glad  tidings  of  salvation; 
to  relate  to  the  people  of  the  world 
what  God  has  done  in  the  earth  during 
these  many  years,  commencing  as  it 


were  in  a  small  place,  in  a  corner,  and 
gradually  spreading.  "Light  broke 
forth  in  darkness,"  as  we  are  told  it 
should  do.  It  has  broken  forth,  and  it 
gradually  spreading.  As  is  written: 
"A  light  shall  break  forth  among 
them  that  sit  in  darkness."  It 
has  broken  forth,  and  it  has 
spread  gradually,  is  spreading  grad- 
ually and  illumining  a  larger  circle, 
spreading  into  many  lands  and  will 
continue  until  it  will  enlighten  the 
whole  earth.  The  light  of'  this  Gospel, 
the  power  of  this  salvation,  the  extent 
and  future  of  this  work,  and  the  knowl- 
edge of  it,  will  spread  from  land  to 
land,  from  nation  to  nation,  from  kin- 
dred to  kindred,  until  it  will  embrace 
the  wnole  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 
earth;  and  they  will  see  it  and  under- 
stand it  and  the  prophecies  and  prom- 
ises of  God  will  every  one  be  fulfilled 
concerning  this  work  which  He  has  es- 
tablished. 

That  God  may  bless  us;  that  we  may 
be  true  and  faithful;  that  we  may  have 
wisdom  to  do  as  we  should  do;  that  we 
may  continue  faithful  and  forget  world- 
ly things,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem, 

Light  and  truth. 
Benediction  by  Elder  C.  D.  Fjelsted. 


SECOND  DAY. 


Friday,  April  7th,  10  a.  m. 
The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  which  begins: 

Redeemer  of  Israel, 
Our  only  delight. 

Prayer  by  Elder  David  H.  Cannon. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 

All  hail  the  glorious  day, 

By  Prophets  long  foretold, 
When  with  harmonious  lay, 
The  sheep  of  Israel's  fold 
On  Zion's  hill  His  praise  proclaim, 
And  shout  hosanna  to  His  name. 

PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 

I  am  very  much  pleased  to  meet  with 
the  brethren  and  sisters  and  our  friends 
"this  morning.  We  have  another  beau- 
tiful   day,  like  yesterday,  and  I  hope 


that  the  Latter-day  Saints  feel  happy. 
We  had  an  excellent  meeting  yesterday. 
The  spirit  of  the  Lord  was  with  us 
greatly;  the  most  excellent  ideas  and 
suggestions  were  made  to  us  by  the 
different  speakers;  the  beauties  and 
glories  of  what  the  Lord  has  accom 
plished  already,  and  those  we  antici- 
pate and  are  sure  He  will  accomplish 
in  the  future,  were  clearly  portrayed 
before  us. 

If  we  will  be  as  quiet  as  we  were  yes- 
terday and  exercise  faith  we  will  have 
just  as  good  a  meeting  today  and  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  inspire  the 
speakers. 

We  have  invited  the  Salt  Lake  Tem- 
ple choir  to  be  with  us  during  tht. 
remaining  part  of  our  conference  and  it 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


will  be  called  upon  occasionally  to  in- 
terest the  Latter-day  Saints.  We  think 
they  will  be  pleased  with  this  oppor- 
tunity of  hearing  this  choir,  which  has 
been  employed  in  the  Temple  here  for 
about  six  years. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  God  bless  you 
and  pour  out  His  spirit  upon  us  this 
day,  that  we  may  greatly  rejoice,  is  m> 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 

Restoration  of  the  Gospel  and  the  obligation  to 
preach  it— Missionary  work  in  Colorado  and 
adjacent  districts— Promises  of  the  Lord  ful- 
filled—Signs follow  the  believer— Beneficial  ef- 
fects of  opposition— The  Kingdom  to  cover  the 
earth. 

I  am  requested  to  make  a  few  re- 
marks this  morning,  and  I  ask  an  inter- 
est in  the  faith  and  prayers  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  and  their  friends,  that 
what  I  may  say  might  be  dictated  by 
the  Spirit  of  God,  because  I  feel  that 
where  a  man  speaks  under  that  influ- 
ence he  will  always  speak  right,  and 
when  he  does  not  speak  under  that  in- 
fluence he  will  always  speak  wrong. 

You  are  no  doubt  aware  that  1  have 
been  away  from  you  for  a  little  time 
in  the  State  of  Colorado  preaching  the 
Gospel.  I  do  not  think  I  could  say  any- 
thing more  appropriate  this  morning 
than  to  dwell  a  little  while  upon  the 
missionary  labors  in  that  district,  as 
there  are  many  here  whose  sons  are 
in  that  land  spreading  the  truth.  We 
all  heard  the  very  interesting  remarks 
yesterday  of  President  Cannon  regard- 
ing the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  to  the 
children  of  men,  and  its  effects  upon  us. 
Inasmuch  as  the  Gospel  has  been  re- 
stored it  has  become  our  duty  to  preach 
it  in  all  the  world,  for  a  witness  unto 
all  nations.  The  words  of  Jesus  Christ 
are  fulfilled,  for  in  His  day  He  said, 
speaking  of  the  Gospel,  "The  kingdom 
of  God  shall  be  taken  from  among  you 
and  it  shall  be  given  unto  a  people 
bringing  forth  the  fruits  thereof."  Af- 
ter Christ  was  put  to  death,  Peter,  af- 
ter the  Savior  had  been  resur- 
rected, asked  Him  the  question: 
"Comest  thou  again  to  restore 
the  kingdom  to  Israel?"  Jesus 
had  taught  them  to  pray  in  this  wise: 
"Our  Father  who  art  in  heaven,  Thy 
kingdom  come,  Thy  will  be  done  on 


earth  as  it  is  in  heaven,  etc."  And 
they  were  praying  for  the  kingdom  to 
come,  but  when  Jesus  answered  Peter 
regarding  this  question,  He  said:  "It 
is  not  for  you  to  know  the  times  and 
the  seasons."  Now,  today  all  of  the  sec- 
tarian world,  are  praying  for  the  king- 
dom of  God  to  come  upon  the  earth. 
President  Cannon  announced  yesterday 
that  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  had 
been  restored  in  its  fulness  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith;  that  the  day  had 
arrived  which  had  been  spoken  of  by 
the  prophets,  and  which  all  the  holy 
prophets  since  the  world  began  de- 
sired to  live  in,  even  the  time  of  the 
restitution  of  all  things.  Inasmuch  as 
the  Gospel  had  been  restored  in  these 
last  days, we  have  also  received  the  same 
injunction  that  was  received  in  former 
days,  for  Jesus  said  unto  them:  "Go 
ye  into  all  the  world  and  preach  the 
Gospel  to  every  creature."  We  have  re- 
ceived the  same  commandment  in  our 
day.  Jesus  said:  "He  that  believeth 
and  is  baptized  shall  be  saved,  and  he 
that  believeth  not  shall  be  damned."  It 
was  only  a  short  time  ago  that  an  emi- 
nent evangelist  announced  from  this 
stand  that  ordinances  were  unnecessary- 
such  as  baptism,  etc.,  for  salvation.  But 
God  the  Eternal  Father  has  given  the 
same  injunction  in  this  our  day  as  He 
gave  in  the  days  of  Christ  and  His 
Apostles,  and  when  we  go  forth,  we  say 
unto  them:  "He  that  believeth  and  is 
baptized  shall  be  saved,  and  he  that 
believeth  not  shall  be  damned."  These 
are  the  words  which  we  speak  unto  the 
children  of  men.  Jesus  spake  further 
and  He  said:  "In  my  name  they  shall 
speak  with  new  tongues:  they  shall 
lay  hands  on  the  sick  and  they  shall 
recover;  if  they  drink  any  deadly  thing 
it  shall  not  hurt  them,  etc."  We  promise 
the  people  these  same  blessings  today. 

There  are  about  thirty  of  us  out  in 
the  Colorado  mission  today.  We  are 
at  present  branching  out  into  New 
Mexico,  the  northern  part  of  Arizona, 
and  in  Wyoming  a  little.  The  Lord 
has  blessed  us,  and  He  has  prospered 
our  labors.  We  have  an  excellent  lot 
of  young  men  out  there  preaching  the 
Gospel.  We  preach  in  the  old-fashioned 
way,  without  purse  or  scrip;  and  they 
feed  us,  and  they  clothe  us,  and  they 
give  us  money,  and  we  are  blessed  ot 
the  Lord.   And  those  Elders  whose  par- 


ELDER  JOHA   W.  TAYLOR. 


32 


ents  can  not  afford  to  send  them  money 
are  the  best  missionaries  we  have  in 
the  field.  It  is  an  injury  to  keep  send- 
ing your  sons  money,  because  they  be- 
gin to  depend  upon  the  money  instead 
of  the  Lord.  In  olden  times  the  Gospel 
was  preached  according  to  this  coun- 
sel: Jesus  says,  "He  that  receiveth 
you  receiveth  me,  and  he  that  receiveth 
me  receiveth  Him  that  sent  me,  and 
he  that  receiveth  a  prophet  in  the  name 
of  a  prophet  shall  receive  a  prophet's 
reward,  and  he  that  giveth  drink,  even 
as  much  as  a  cup  of  cold  water  to  one 
of  these  little  ones  of  mine,  shall  in  no 
wise  lose  his  reward."  These  were  the 
qualifications  of  the  servants  of  Goa 
in  the  days  of  Jesus,  and  today  we 
possess  the  same  qualifications,  and  we 
receive  the  same  instructions.  Jesus 
says,  "Freely  ye  have  received,  freely 
give,"  or  in  other  words  the  Gospel 
cost  you  nothing,  do  not  charge  other 
people  anything  for  it.  This  peculiar 
means  of  preaching  the  Gospel  is  the 
test  Christ  is  going  to  make  of  the 
children  of  men  whether  they  receive 
the  truth  or  not,  for  He  said— you  will 
find  it  in  the  25th  chapter  of  Matthew— 
"When  I  come  in  all  my  glory  and  all 
my  holy  angels  with  me  and  I  sit  upon 
my  throne  of  glory,  T  will  separate  the 
goats  from  the  sheep;  I  will  set  the 
sheep  on  my  right  hand  and  the  goats 
on  my  left  hand;  and  to  the  "-oats 
upon  my  left  hand,  I  will  say:  I  was 
sick  and  in  prison  and  ye  visited  me 
not;  I  was  naked  and  ye  clothed  me 
not;  T  was  hungry  and  ye  fed  me  not. 
And  they  will  say:  when  wast  thou 
an  hungered  and  thirsty,  or  naked,  or 
in  prison,  and  we  came  not  unto  ye? 
I  will  say  inasmuch  as  ye  did  it  unto 
even  one  of  these  my  brethren,  ye  did 
it  also  to  me.  And  to  those  upon  ray 
right  hand  I  will  say,  that  inasmuch  aa 
ye  have  ministered  unto  one  of  these 
of  my  brethren, ye  have  ministered  unto 
me.  Enter  thou  into  the  place  pre 
pared  for  thee  before  the  foundations 
of  the  world."  I  say  this  is  the  was 
Christ  is  going  to  judge  the  world,  foi 
He  gave  a  special  commandment  that 
when  you  should  go  into  a  house  or  a 
city  you  should  enquire  who  is  worthy 
to  receive  you,  and  if  they  do  so,  let 
your  peace  rest  upon  that  household  and 
say  unto  them,  "the  kingdom  of  God 
is  nigh   unto  you;  but  if  they  reject  you 


shake  the  dust  off  your  feet  as  a  testi- 
mony against  them,  for  it  shall  be 
more  tolerable  in  the  day  of  judgment 
for  the  city  of  Sodom  or  Gomorrha 
than  for  that  city  or  household  that  re- 
jecteth  you." 

This  is  the  course  we  pursue  in 
preaching  the  everlasting  Gospel  and 
the  Lord  has  blessed  the  labors  of  the 
young  men  and  has  led  them  to  the 
honest  in  heart.  Some  260  or  270  have 
been  baptized,  and  we  have  organized 
branches  of  the  Church  in  Denver,  in 
Colorado  Springs,  Pueblo,  near  Duran- 
go,  and  we  have  members  of  the 
Church  in  Grand  Valley,  and  a  numbei 
of  other  places.  Our  brethren  are  labor- 
ing diligently,  and  they  are  being  re- 
ceived kindly  by  the  people  of  Colorado. 
The  people  there  are  similar  to  those 
here.  They  have  had  the  courage  and 
fortitude  to  get  out  of  the  crowded  cit- 
ies of  the  East  and  come  West,  and 
wherever  their  lot  is  cast  they  are  till- 
ing *.he  soil,  raising  cattle,  horses  and 
sheep,  and  going  down  into  the  bowelo 
of  the  earth  and  mining,  and  they 
are  a  prosperous  and  big-hearted  peo- 
ple. We  went  there  a  little  less  than 
two  and  a  half  years  ago,  when  we  were 
without  a  friend,  and  we  have  been 
blessed  and  prospered,  and  the  Lord 
has  verified  His  promises  in  our  be- 
half. He  says,  "I  will  send  mine  an- 
gels before  your  face  to  prepare  the 
way  before  you,  and  I  will  be  upon  your 
right  hand  and  upon  your*  left  hand 
and  bear  you  up."  Has  this  been  veri- 
fied? Yes.  He  says  further,  When 
you  lay  hands  upon  the  children  of 
men,  I  will  cause  that  the  Holy  Ghost 
shall  descend  upon  them."  Has  this 
been  verified?  It  has.  And,  also,  the 
blessings  of  the  Gospel  which  is  not  in 
the  power  of  man  to  confer  upon  the 
children  of  men,  because  every  good 
and  perfect  gift  comes  from  God.  We 
have  enjoyed  the  gift  of  tongues;  we 
have  enjoyed  the  gift  of  prophecy;  and 
we  have  enjoyed  the  gift  of  interpreta- 
tion of  tongues;  and  we  have  enjoyed 
that  knowledge  promised  by  our  Lord 
and  Savior  Jesus  Christ,  when  He  says, 
"He  that  doeth  the  will  of  my  Father 
shall  know  of  the  doctrine  whether  I 
speak  of  God  or  whether  I  speak  of 
myself."  Has  God  verified  this  unto 
the  children  of  men?  He  has.  And 
there  are  those  under  the  sound  of  my 


GEhERAL  CONFERENCE 


voice  on  whom  these  young  Elders,  of 
whom  I  have  been  speaking-,  have  laid 
their  hands  upon,  and  they  received 
the  Holy  Ghost,  and  they  could  testi- 
fy that  what  I  say  is  true.  This  is  the 
foundation  of  the  kingdom  of  God— 
the  testimony  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  is 
the  same  today  as  it  was  in  the  days 
of  the  ancient  Apostles.  The  Savior 
thought  He  would  find  out  whether 
Peter  had  a  testimony  or  not,  and  He 
said,  "Peter,  whom  do  men  say  that  I 
the  Son  of  Man  am?"  Peter  said, 
"Some  say  that  thou  art  Jonas,  others 
Elias,  others  one  of  the  old  prophets 
raised  from  the  dead."  But,  said  the 
Savior,  "whom  sayest  thou  that  I  am?" 
He  wanted  to  know  what  Peter  thought 
of  this.  Peter  answered,  being  filled 
with  the  Holy  Ghost:  "Thou  art  Christ 
the  Son  of  the  living  God."  And  Jesus 
blessed  him,  and  said,  "Flesh  and  blood 
hath  not  revealed  this  unto  thee,  but 
my  Father  who  is  in  heaven,  and  upon 
this  rock  will  I  build  my  church  (the 
rock  of  revelation)  and  the  gates  of 
hell  shall  not  prevail  against  it."  Is  this 
correct?  It  is  correct.  This  is  why 
the  persecution  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  only  increases    their  numbers. 

At  present  we  have  a  considerable 
agitation  against  this  people  regarding 
political  matters.  I  have  noticed,  as 
president  of  the  Colorado  mission,  that 
according  to  the  reports  from  our 
Elders  our  meetings  have  double  the 
number  of  .attendants  that  they  had  be- 
fore this  agitation,  and  they  sell  double 
the  amount  of  Church  literature  that 
they  did  before.  And  I  wish  to  tell  the 
Latter-day  Saints  present  that  it  is  not 
only  the  converts  of  this  people  that 
are  our  friends.  When  we  went  into 
Colorado  we  were  entire  strangers,  but 
after  we  began  to  lift  up  our  voices, 
we  found  many  friends.  Many  are 
friendly  that  do  not  care,  for  special 
reasons,  to  have  it  announced.  I  have 
had  conferred  upon  me  all  manner  of 
favors  and  courtesies  by  friends  that 
have  been  raised  up  of  God;  the  peo^ 
pie  are  friendly  to  us — those  who  see 
what  has  been  done  by  the  people  who 
inhabit  these  rocky  mountains  from 
Mexico  to  Canada,  and  who  have  made 
a  sterile  desert  to  blossom  as  the  rose. 
Today  I  could  take  a  buggy  in  the 
northern  or  western  part  of  the  State 
of  Colorado  and  travel  from  one  end  to 


the  other  and  stop  every  night  with  a 
friend  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  "While 
we  have  probably  260  converts,  we  have 
thousands  and  thousands  of  friends 
raised  up  by  the  Lord.  My  testimony 
to  you  is  that  there  is  not  one  man  out 
of  a  hundred,  when  he  hears  this  Gos- 
pel preached  in  its  purity,  but  what 
says  ,  in  his  heart,  "that  is  true,"  but 
he  has  not  the  moral  stamina  to  em- 
brace it;  but  he  has  the  courage  to  pro- 
vide for  our  wants,  and  they  do  it  free- 
ly. I  rejoice  in  this  labor  in  connection 
with  my  young  brethren.  I  can  do  but 
little.  One  man  can  do  but  little  in  this 
great  world  of  ours,  it  is  so  large.  Our 
labors  are  confined  to  a  very  narrow 
compass,  but  nevertheless  we  can  all  do 
something.  I  can  say,  in  connection 
with  my  brethren,  that  the  Lord  has 
blessed  us  in  our  labors.  I  have  been 
blessed  and  have  felt  free  in  my  spirit, 
that  is,  as  free  as  it  is  possible  for  a 
man  to  be  who  is  laboring  under  a  bur- 
den of  debt  as  I  am  and  away  from 
home  principally  and  with  no  oppor- 
tunities to  satisfy  my  creditors.  But 
having  been  called  by  the  servants  of 
God  to  go  and  preach  the  Gospel,  I  go 
forth  and  do  the  best  I  can,  knowing 
that  God  will  overrule  all  things 
for  my  good  in  so  doing.  In  the  various 
nations  of  the  earth  the  Lord  is  bless- 
ing the  brethren;  He  is  verifying  His 
promises  to  the  children  of  men. 

I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  God; 
I  know  that  the  Lord  has  again  estab- 
lished His  work  in  the  day  and  age  in 
which  you  and  I  live,  and  I  know  that 
every  man  that  will  humble  himself 
and  go.  down  into  the  waters  of  baptism 
with  a  desire  to  serve  God  and  keep 
His  commandments,  rorsttklng  all  his 
sins,  that  he  will  receive  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost  when  the  hands  of  the 
servants  of  God  are  laid  upon  him;  he 
will  know  that  God  lives  and  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God,  as 
you  and  I  know  it,  because  we  have 
been  founded  upon  the  rock  of  revela- 
tion. We  have  received  the  spirit  which 
takes  of  the  things  of  the  Father  and 
reveals  them  unto  the  children  of  men, 
and  we  have  a  perfect  knowledge  that 
God  lives.  That  is  what  inspires  this 
people  through  all  the  troubles  and 
vicissitudes  of  life  which  they  have  had 
to  endure  since  the  year  1830.  That  is 
why  we  feel  that  we  "are  not  ashamed 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAILOR 


25 


of  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  for  it  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation  unto  all 
those  who  believe  and  obey  it,  for 
therein  is  the  righteousness  of  God  re- 
vealed from  faith  to  faith.  As  it  is 
written,  "the  just  shall  live  by  faith." 
"We  live  in  a  day  of  revelation;  we  live 
in  a  day  when  no  man  neea  be  in  the 
dark;  we  live  in  a  day  when  no  man, 
if  he  be  humble  and  faithful,  need 
say  "know  ye  the  Lord,  for  all  shall 
know  Him."  All  can  have  a  testimony 
of  these  things,  as  God  is  no  respecter 
of  persons. 

I  feel  to  rejoice  in  the  large  attend- 
ance at  this  grand  conference.  I  know 
that  our  first  aim  and  object  should  be, 
the  kingdom  of  God  or  nothing.  I  be- 
lieve it  is  the  desire  of  this  people  as  a 
rule,  that  this  kingdom  shall  roll  forth 
until  it  shall  cover  the  whole  earth. 
There  was  a  great  and  mighty  prophet 
that  lived  in  olden  times  by  the  name 
of  Daniel,  who  prophesied  that  the 
Lord  would  set  up  a  kingdom  that 
would  never  be  destroyed  or  given  into 
the  hands  of  another  people.  It  was 
like  unto  a  little  stone  cut  out  of 
the  mountain  without  hands,  and 
it  would  roll  forth  until  it 
should  cover  the  whole  earth. 
Is  this  little  stone  rolling  forth?  Yes. 
Will  this  be  its  destiny?  It  will.  Will 
you  and  I  endure  with  it?  That  de- 
pends upon  whether  we  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  God  or  not,  and  whether 
we  keep  our  garments  pure  and  un- 
spotted from  the  pins  of  this  wicked 
and  adulterous  generation  in  which  we 
live.  Malachi  says,  "Behold  the  Lord, 
whom  ye  seek  shall  suddenly  come  to 
His  Temple;  but  who  may  abide  the 
day  of  His  coming,  and  who  shall  stand 
when  He  appeareth?  For  He  is  like  a 
refiner's  fire  and  like  fullers'  soap?" 
Who  will  stand  when  He  appeareth? 
It  will  be  those  who  have  their  lamps 
filled  with  oil— the  oil  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  Those  who  have  this  Spirit  and 
are  walking  in  the  ways  of  rectitude 
and  are  obedient  to  the  commandments 
of  God  will  be  prepared  for  the  coming 
of  Jesus  Christ,  for  He  will  come  to 
purify  the  sons  of  Levi  as  gold,  seven 
times  purified  in  the  fire.  Are  we  pre- 
pared for  this  test?  We  may  be  if  we 
will  improve  a  little  day  by  day.  I 
know  as  far  as  I  am  concerned  there  is 
great  room  for  improvement,   and  I 


hope  that  you  can  see  that  there  is 
some  room  for  improvement  with  you. 
I  know  that  God  loves  those  that  are 
humble  and  contrite  in  their  spirit.  I 
know  that  God  loves  those  who  work 
for  the  redemption  of  mankind.   I  know 
God  loves,  and  is  pleased  with,  His  chil- 
dren whose  greatest  desire  is  to  build 
up  His  kingdom  here  on  the  earth — who 
are  energetic,  and  he  blesses  them  with 
His  Spirit.     We  hear   remarks  some- 
times by  some  of  our  cold-blooded  peo- 
ple.   They  will  say,  "He  is  enthusias- 
tic." There  never  was  a  man  who  spoke 
by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  but 
what  he  was  enthusiastic.    The  black- 
smith  never  made  a   weld    until  the 
white  sparks  began  to  fly.   I  know  that 
the  children  of  men  never  were  convert- 
ed until  they  saw  that  the  power  of  God 
rested  with  His  servants,  and  the  Spirit 
of  God  went  down  into  their  hearts  like 
fire.     John  said,  "I  baptize  you  with 
water,  but  there  is  one  coming  after  me 
who  will  baptize  you  with  fire  and  with 
the  Holy  Ghost."    Has  that  fire  been 
given  unto  this  people?    It  has.  How 
were  your  bosoms    swelled    with  joy, 
when  you  heard  the  sound  of  the  ever- 
lasting Gospel!    It  has  the  same  effect 
wherever  the  elders    of  Israel    go,  be- 
cause they  know  they  are  servants  of 
God.  "My  sheep  hear  my  voice,"  but  the 
stranger  will  not  because  he  does  not 
know    His    voice.     "When    a  servant 
of  God  enters  a  house  and  says  by  the 
authority  of  the  Priesthood,  "peace  be 
unto  this  house,"  does  peace  rest  upon 
it?    Yes.     I  heard   a  woman  testify 
that  Brother  Franklin  D.  Richards  en- 
tered her  house  in  Illinois  and  said  in 
a  humble,  gentle  spirit,  "peace  be  unto 
this  house,"  and  the  moment  he  spake 
those  words  the  spirit  of  God  came  up- 
on her  and  went  through  her  whole  sys- 
tem from  the  crown  of  her  head  to 
the  soles  of  her  feet,  and  such  peace 
and  such  joy  she  never  had  experi- 
enced.   This  is  what  was  spoken  of  by 
Christ:    "Peace  on  earth,  good  will  to 
to  man."   It  was  the  spirit  of  God  that 
bore   testimony   to   that   woman  that 
Brother  Richards  was  a  servant  of  God. 
It  is  the  spirit  of  God  that  converts  the 
people.    There  never  was  a  man  that 
converted  another  man  to  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.   It  is  impossible;  it  is  the 
spirit  of  God  that  converts  men.  Every 
conversion  that  has  ever  been  made  in 


2G 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  Church  of  Christ  has  been  made  by 
God,  otherwise  they  will  not  endure. 
That  which  has  not  been  sealed  by  the 
Holy  Spirit  of  promise  will  not  be  en- 
during, but  will  pass  away. 

I  rejoice  in  preachng  the  everlasting 
Gospel;  and  I  rejoice  in  being  with  you 
here  in  the  land  of  Zion.  I  can  see 
that  Zion  is  prospering,  and  growing, 
and  that  the  blessings  of  God  are  upon 
her  from  the  north  to  the  south,  and 
from  the  east  to  the  west;  and  I  hope 
she  shall  continue  to  grow  and  spread 
until  all  shall  be  accomplished  that 
God  desires  we  shall  accomplish;  that 
the  blessings  of  God  will  rest  upon  her 
sons  and  upon  her  daughters;  that  they 
may  build  upon  that  sure  foundation  of 
truth,  that  the  towers  of  Zion  may  rise 
and  shine  until  she  becomes  the  glory 
of  the  Avhole  earth.  God  is  directing 
this  work,  and  is  directing  His  servants. 
I  know  that  His  servants  are  inspired 
by  the  gifts  and  powers  of  God  to  coun- 
sel this  people  in  the  ways  of  truth  and 
righteousness;  and  He  will  inspire 
every  man  acording  to  his  station  and 
circumstances  in  life  if  he  will  yield 
obedience  to  His  commandments. 

May  God  bless  you  in  all  of  your  af- 
fairs; may  He  temper  the  elements  for 
your  good,  that  Zion  may  grow  and  be- 
come the  pride  of  the  whole  earth,  is 
my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

Nothing  can  be  attempted  against  the  work  of  God 
that  will  not  advance  it— Futility  of  seeking 
to  convert  apostates— A.  prophesy  fulfilled— The 
leaven  of  the  Gospel  in  the  world. 

It  is  a  source  of  great  pleasure  to 
me  to  meet  once  more  with  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  in  a  general  conference  of 
the  Church.  I  have  listened  with  very 
much  interest  and  pleasure  to  the  re- 
marks that  have  been  made  by  those 
who  have  spoken  thus  far  in  our  meet- 
ings. In  standing  before  you  this  morn- 
ing to  bear  witness  of  the  goodness  of 
the  Lord  to  His  people  and  to  me  as 
an  individual,  I  desire  most  earnestly 
and  humbly  that  what  I  may  say  may 
be  for  our  mutual  benefit;  that  it  may 
strengthen  us  in  our  desires  to  serve 
God  and  keep  His  commandments.  If 
I  know  my  own  heart,  I  believe  it  is 
set  upon  the  advancement  of  the 
Church  and  Kingdom  of  God.    I  know 


that  there  is  nothing  on  the  earth  that 
I  rejoice  over  so  much  as  I  do  in  the 
fact  that  I  am  associated  with  the  ser- 
vants and  handmaidens  of  God  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ;  and  I  do  not 
believe  that  there  ever  is  a  day  that 
passes  over  my  head  that  I  do  not 
thank  God  for  the  restoration  again  of 
the  plan  of  life  and  salvation,  and  that 
I  have  been  made  a  partaker  of  the 
same.  I  supplicate  Him  earnestly  that 
my  mind  may  never  become  darkened, 
that  I  may  never  depart  from  the  truth; 
that  I  may  never  forget  any  of  the 
covenants  that  I  have  made,  but.  as  I 
grow  in  years  and  increase  in  un- 
derstanding, that  I  may  grow  in 
a  testimony  of  the  Gospel  and 
in  the  desire — not  only  a  desire  but  in 
doing  it — to  labor  for  the  onward  ad- 
vancement of  the  Kingdom  of  God  on 
the  earth. 

When  I  look  around  and  see  the  mis- 
takes that  I  have  made,  and  those  that 
my  brethren  make  from  time  to  time; 
when  I  realize  how  many  of  those  who 
have  been  wonderfully  blessed  of  the 
Lord  have  fallen  by  the  wayside,  it  fills 
me  with  humility;  it  fills  me  with  the 
spirit  of  meekness  and  with  an  earnest 
desire  that  I  may  ever  seek  to  know 
the  mind  and  the  will  of  God  and  to 
keep  His  commandments  rather  than 
to  follow  out  my  own  desires. 

In  listening  to  the  remarks  that  have 
been  made  here  this  morning  by  Bro- 
ther John  W.  Taylor  with  regard  to  the 
political  agitation  that  is  being  stirred 
up,  or  at  least  the  agitation  that  is 
being  stirred  up  because  of  the  politi- 
cal affairs  in  Utah,  and  his  testimony 
that  the  meetings  held  by  the  Elders 
are  doubly  as  well  attended  as  they 
were  before  this  agitation;  and  that 
they  are  now  selling  double  the  amount 
of  tracts  to  what  they  did  before  this 
agitation,  it  furnished  one  more  testi- 
mony to  :ne  of  the  truth  of  the  sayings 
of  those  who  have  been  inspired: 
"that  nothing  can  be  done  against  the 
work  of  God  but  what  shall  redound  to 
its  advancement."  I  have  recently  had 
the  privilege  of  visiting  three  of  the 
conferences  in  the  Northern  States  mis- 
sion, and  we  had  exactly  the  same  ex- 
perience as  that  related  by  Brother 
Taylor.  Some  of  the  first  meetings 
were  very  poorly  attended,  but  when  it 
was  announced    that    some  remarks 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


27 


would  be  made  at  a  later  meeting  by 
myself  upon  what  is  known  as  the 
Roberts'  case,  we  had  a  full  house  and 
we  had  a  chance  to  say  a  few  words 
with  regard  to  the  Roberts'  case  and 
a  great  many  words  with  regard  to  the 
restoration  of  the  Gospel  and  to  bear 
witness  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  pro- 
phet of  the  true  and  living  God. 

Never  have  I  rejoiced  more  in  my 
life,  that  my  lot  has  been  cast  among 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  that  I  have  been 
born  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  than  I  did  in  mj. 
recent  visit  to  the  East,  when  I  came 
in  contact  with  members  of  the  Re- 
organized church.  When  I  visited  Kirt- 
land,  Ohio,  and  saw  there  the  temple, 
and  realized  the  fact  that  at  the  time 
it  was  erected  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
and  his  brother,  that  it  was  a  mighty 
work;  when  I  considered  the  ordin- 
ances that  aro  being  performed  in  our 
temples  here  in  Utah;  when  I  reflected 
that  we  have  the  Gospel  in  its  fulness; 
when  I  thought  that  they  have  the  tem- 
ple but  know  not  how  to  put  it  to  any 
use;  when  I  realized  that  they  are  ab- 
solutely devoid  of  the  inspiration  of 
God,  I  rejoiced  that  my  lot  had  beeiv 
cast  among  the  Later-day  Saints. 

I  have  often  been  surprised  that  so 
much  of  the  time  of  our  Elders  has 
been  wasted  in  the  world  in  discussing 
with  members  of  the  Re-organized 
Church  as  to  which  Church  was  in  very 
deed  the  Church  of  Christ.  I  have  been 
astonished  at  this  for  the  reason  that 
it  seems  to  me  an  utter  waste  of  time 
to  undertake  to  discuss  with  a  man  af- 
ter you  have  knocked  him  down  as  to 
who  holds  the  ground.  We  read  that  in 
heaven  there  was  a  rebellion  and  that 
God,  our  Heavenly  Father,  cast  out 
one-third  of  the  hosts  of  heaven  with 
Lucifer  at  their  head.  We  have  no  ac- 
count after  they  were  cast  out  that 
God  stopped  to  argue  the  question  with 
those  that  had  been  cast  out  as  to  who 
held  the  ground.  In  the  Re-organized 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  about  one-half,  if  not  more,  of 
its  members,  are  those  who  have  been 
cast  out  of  the  real  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  They  do 
not  begin  to  have  one-tenth  the  number 
we  have,  and  why  should  we  waste 
our  time  in  arguing  with  them  as  to 
who  holds  the  situation,    and    as  to 


which  is  the  Church  of  Christ?  If  the 
prophecies  of  Daniel  and  others 
that  have  been  referred  to  here 
today  are  true,  and  we  know 
they  are  true,  then  is  the  moun- 
tain of  the  Lord's  house  to  be  estab- 
lished in  the  tops  of  the  mountains? 
Here  it  is,  and  here  it  is  rolling  forth 
and  will  fill  the  whole  earth.  Can  any 
of  these  claims  be  made  by  this  shad- 
dow,  so  to  speak,  of  a  re-organized 
church?  We  know  that  Joseph  prophe- 
sied that  the  Latter-day  Saints  should 
be  driven  from  city  to  city;  that  they 
should  be  driven  from  county  to  coun- 
ty; and  that  they  should  be  driven 
from  state  to  state;  and  finally,  that 
they  should  be  driven  out  of  the  con- 
fines of  the  United  States  to  these 
Rocky  Mountains  and  become  a  great, 
a  prosperous,  a  mighty  people.  We 
know  that  this  has  been  fulfilled  to  the 
letter.  The  Re-organized  Church  can 
lay  no  claims  to  being  persecuted  and 
driven  from  city  to  city,  from  county 
to  county,  from  state  to  state,  or  of 
being  driven  to  the  Rocky  Mountains. 
They  have  not  become  a  mighty  people 
in  the  midst  of  the  Rocky  Mountains. 
Not  only  did  Joseph  Smith  proclaim 
that  the  day  should  come  when  a  city, 
a  county,  and  a  state  should  be  ar- 
rayed against  this  people  called  Latter- 
day  Saints,  but  he  said,  "the  time  shall 
ome  when  the  whole  United  States 
shall  be  arrayed  against  the  Mor- 
mons;" and  the  day  did  come.  I  re- 
member in  my  childhood  days  when  the 
army  of  the  United  States  came 
against  this  people.  Not  a  state  militia, 
but  the  army  of  the  United  States  of 
America.  I  remember  very  well  also 
that  the  property  of  the  Church  of  Je- 
sus Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was 
confiscated.  I  remember  to  have  picked 
up  the  papers  time  and  time  again  at 
the  time  the  confiscation  suits  were  go- 
ing on  in  this  state,  and  read  in  bold 
headlines,  "The  United  States  of  Ameri- 
ca, vs  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,"  and  I  have  laid 
down  the  paper  and  said,  "thanks  be  to 
God  our  Heavenly  Father,  that  the 
United  States  of  America  has  placed 
the  stamp  of  divinity  upon  the  utter- 
ances of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith." 
Every  one  of  these  predictions  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  have  utterly 
failed    if    there    is    one    claim  that 


2s 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


amounts  to  anything  in  the  claims  of 
the  Re-organized  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  because 
the  United  States  of  America  has  never 
lifted  its  hand  nor  sent  its  army  against 
or  confiscated  the  property  of  the  Re-or- 
ganized Church.  Never  has  one  thing 
been  done  by  the  United  States  of 
America  against  that  church. 

I  rejoice,  as  I  have  said,  that  I  have 
been      born    among    the  Latter-day 
Saints.    I  rejoice  in  the  growth  and  in 
the  advancement  of  the  work  of  God 
here  on  the  earth.    In  hearing  the  re- 
marks that  have  been  made  in  this 
Conference  of  the  great  growth  of  the 
people  I  was  reminded  of  being  with 
President  Wilford  Woodruff,  standing 
in   a   wagon,   in   Idaho,  some  fifteen 
years  ago  next  May,  and  talking  to  a 
half  a  dozen,  or  a  dozen  young  people 
that  were  located  there,  and  I  was  also 
very  forcibly  reminded  of  the  remarks 
of  that  Prophet  of  God  made  them.  I 
remember  that  the  young  people  were 
somewhat  discouraged  on  Sand  Creek, 
as  they  looked  around  over  land,  with- 
out a  tree,  without  a  shrub  except  sage 
brush,  without  so  much  as  a  log  cabin. 
Brother    Woodruff    said  to  the  young 
people:     "Be  not  discouraged;  be  not 
disheartened,  because  God's  blessing  is 
upon  this  land.    It  will  only  be  a  little 
time  until  there  will  be  prosperous  and 
happy   settlements   of    the  Latter-day 
Saints  here.    Tou  feel  that  you  have 
gone  away  from  your  friends;  that  you 
are  almost  out  of  the  world,  but  it  will 
be  only  a  short  time  when  you  will 
have  a  meeting  house,  and    a  school 
house  and  all  of  the  facilities  here  that 
you  had  at  home  before  you  came  here. 
God  will  bless  and  multiply  the  land." 
What  is  the  result  today?   On  that  si  ot 
of  ground  stands  the  town  of  Iona,  the 
headquarters  of  one  of  the  Stakes  of 
Zion,  with  about  five  thousand  people 
instead-  of  six  or  seven  young  people; 
the    words    of  the    Prophet  Wilford 
Woodruff  have  been  fulfilled  to  the  v.;ry 
letter. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  are  indeed,  as 
the  Prophet  Joseph  said  they  should  be, 
a  mighty  people  in  the  midst  of  the 
Rocky  Mountains  and  we  are  simply 
in  our  infancy.  We  are  beginning  to 
grow  and  to  become  a  mighty  people, 
but  we  are  as  nothing  to  what  we  will 
be.    There  is  no  question  in  my  mind 


but  what  the  Lord  Is  going  to  multiply 
the  Latter-day  Saints  and  bless  them 
more  abundantly  in  the  future  than  He 
has  ever  done  in  the  past,  provided  of 
course    we    are    humble  and  diligent; 
provided  we  seek  for  the  advancement 
of  God's  kingdom,  and  not  to  do  our 
own  mind  and  will.    We  have  the  Gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ  restored  to  us;  we 
have  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation;  we 
have  the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  not 
only  for  the  living  but  for  the  dead.  We 
have  all  that  is  necessary,  not  only  for 
our  own  salvation,  but  that  we  may  be 
in    very    deed  "Saviors    upon  Mount 
Zion,"  and  enter  into  the  temples  of 
our  God  and  save  our  ancestors  who 
have  died  without  a  knowledge  of  the 
Gospel.    I  was  particularly  struck  yes- 
terday in  listening  to  the  remarks  of 
President  Cannon.    He  said,  "Where  is 
there  a  minister    today    that  ha,s  the 
hardihood  to  stand  up  and  preach  that 
little  babes  who  die  are  sent  to  hell  be- 
cause they  were  not  sprinkled?"  The 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  leaven  of 
the  Gospel,  is  going  through  the  whole 
lump.    The  whole  world  has  partaken 
to  a  greater  or  less  extent  of  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel;  and  men  dare  not 
stand  up  today  and  advocate  this  doc- 
trine of  devils,  so  to  speak,  because  it  is 
a  damnable  doctrine  to  teach  tnit  little 
innocent    babes  shall    be  sent  to  hell. 
When  we  contemplate  the  Gospel  as  it 
is  and  as  it  has  been  revealed,  as  re- 
corded in  the  seventy-sixth  section  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  our  hearts 
swell  with  joy  and  thanksgiving: 

"And  this  is  the  Gospel,  the  glad  tid- 
ings of  which  the  voice  out  of  the  heav- 
ens bore  record  unto  us. 

"That  He  came  into  the  world,  even 
Jesus,  to  be  crucified  for  the  world,  and 
to  bear  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  to 
sanctify  the  world,  and  to  cleanse  it 
from  all  unrighteousness; 

"That  through  Him  all  might  be 
saved  whom  the  Father  had  put  into 
His  power  and  made  by  Him. 

"Who  glorifies  the  Father,  and  saves 
all  the  works  of  His  hands,  except 
those  sons  of  perdition,  who  deny  the 
Son  after  the  Father  has  revealed  Him; 

"Wherefore,  he  saves  all  except 
them." 

Certainly  this  is  glad  tidings  of  great 
joy,  that  every  human  being  except 
those  that  have  a  knowledge  of  Jesus 


ELDER  GEORGE  TEAS  DALE. 


29 


Christ  and  who  sin  against  that  knowl- 
edge, shall  be  saved;  and  in  this  reve- 
lation the  wonderful  testimony  has 
been  borne  to  us  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  and  Sidney  Rigdon: 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right 
hand  of  God,  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  only  be- 
gotten of  the  Father — 

"That  by  him  and  through  him,  and 
of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were  cre- 
ated, and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are 
begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto  God." 

I  bear  witness  to  you,  although  I 
have  not  seen  the  Savior  sitting  upon 
the  right  hand  of  God,  I  know  that  He 
lives;  that  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ;  that  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  of  God;  I  know  that  the 
signs  follow  the  believer;  I  know  that 
hands  are  laid  upon  the  sick  and  that 
the  sick  do  recover;  I  know  that  we 
have  the  gift  of  tongues  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints;  I  know  that  we 
have  visions,  dreams,  and  revelations;  I 
know  that  Lorenzo  Snow  is  a  true 
prophet  of  God.  I  bear  this  witness  to 
you  and  to  all  the  world,  and  I  pray 
God  that  as  we  grow  in  years  that  we 
may  grow  in  the  knowledge  of  the  Gos- 
pel, and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

The  Temple  choir  sang  the  hymn 
commencing, 

Zion  stands  with  hills  surrounded, 
Zion  kept  by  powers  divine. 

ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 

Value  of  a  well  spent  life — The  Saints  patriotic 
lovers  of  liberty. 

In  the  hymn  just  sung  a  very  sweet 
text  is  given  unto  me:  "God  is  with 
thee."  I  think  it  has  been  demonstrat- 
ed at  this  Conference,  in  the  testimo- 
nies that  have  been  given  concerning 
us  and  concerning  the  establishment  of 
the  Church  of  Christ  upon  the  earth  in 
these  latter  days — that  God  is  with 
us,  and  that  the  prophecies  are  being 
fulfilled  establishing  the  truth  of  the 
utterances  of  the  prophets  that  have 
lived  upon  the  earth  in  the  days  that 
are  gone;  and  that  the  glorious  princi- 
ples of  the  everlasting  Gospel  are  be- 
ing preached  by  us  in  all  the  world 
for  a  witness;  to  the  accomplishment 
of  His  own  glorious  pur-poses,  as  has 
*  been   demonstrated   in   the  discourses 


that  have  been  given  during  this  Con- 
ference concerning  the  work  of  God  in 
the  earth,  and  its  wonderful  progress. 

I  was  very  much  impressed  a  few 
days  ago  when  1  had  the  honor  of  an 
invitation  to  the  Temple  by  the  Temple 
workers,  who,  loving  their  president, 
had  invited  him  to  come  and  spend  an 
hour  or  two  with  them  upon  the  anni- 
versary of  his  birthday— I  was  very 
much  impressed  with  the  value  of  a 
well-spent  life.  What  a  credit  it  is  to 
a  man  and  how  God  is  glorified  in  hav- 
ing such  sons  as  our  president  here  in 
this  lower  world,  surrounded  by  all  its 
allurements  and  temptations,  who 
of  their  own  free  will  and  agency  take 
up  the  cross  of  Christ,  obey  His  un- 
popular doctrine;  and  are  willing  to  be 
looked  upon  as  the  offscouring  of  all 
flesh,  because  they  love  God,  acknow- 
ledge the  atonement  of  His  son  and 
desire  to  love  Him  and  keep  His  com- 
mandments rather  than  anything  else, 
no  matter  what  the  consequences  may 
be!  I  can  understand  how  God  is  glori- 
fied because  it  is  by  the  grace  of  God 
that  we  are  sustained.  We  could  not  do 
without  it,  and  it  is  another  evidence 
that  God  is  with  us. 

1  remember  coming  out  of  the  world, 
and  I  remember  accepting  this  unpopu- 
lar doctrine;  I  remember  the  contumely 
and  scorn  and  contempt  that  I  had  to 
pass  through;  and  I  have  advocated 
this  despised  doctrine  and  have  been 
sustained  by  the  grace  of  God,  and  I 
know  that  He  has  been  with  me;  and 
in  all  my  tribulations,  afflic- 
tions, in  my  bereavements  and 
heartaches,  I  can  bear  testimony 
that  God  has  been  with  me.  I 
know  that  God  lives.  I  have  learned 
that  in  my  experience;  He  has  been  my 
counselor  and  my  guide;  He  has  been 
my  director.  I  have  sought  the  coun- 
sels of  His  will  and  have  endeavored  in 
my  poor  way  to  carry  them  out,  and  I 
can  bear  this  testimony  that  God  has 
been  with  me.  He  has  sustained  me  in 
all  the  vicissitudes  of  life:  and  in  the 
fulfilment  of  all  my  duties;  and  I  also 
know  that  He  is  with  this  people;  and 
that  which  we  are  most  condemned  for 
— our  belief  in  plural  marriage — is, to  my 
mind,  another  evidence  that  we  are  the 
Israel  of  God.  Pagan  Rome  prohibited 
plural  marriage,  and  this  action  has 
been  generally  accepted  and  sustained 


30 


GEISERAL  CONFERENCE. 


by  the  so-called  Christian  nations,  of 
the  earth.  Now,  we  are  told  not  to  love 
the  world  nor  the  things  of  the  world. 
If  we  love  the  world  the  love  of  God  is 
not  with  us;  but  there  are  many  other 
evidences  that  this  people  are  the  peo- 
ple of  God,  and  that  God  has  sustained 
them,  and  that  He  is  with  them.  The 
Latter-day  Saints  are  devoted  to  tneir 
country;  they  are  devoted  to  the 
Constitution;  they  look  upon  it  as  a 
sacred  record,  given  by  inspiration;  and 
they  revere  the  men  who  were  made 
instruments  in  the  hands  of  Almighty 
God  in  framing  that  wonderful  docu- 
ment; and  they  are  true  and  faithful  to 
vt;  and  they  have  manifested  this  faith- 
fulness on  all  occasions.  Whenever 
their  country  required  their  as- 
sistance, they  have  been  ready  to 
lay  down  their  lives  in  defense 
of  it  and  in  defense  of  the 
flag,  and  in  defense  of  the  constitu- 
tion. We  are  a  liberty  loving  people, 
and  we  respect  the  government,  and  we 
manifest  this  in  the  course  that  we  are 
taking  today.  We  can  afford  to  labor 
and  wait,  because  we  know  that  inteli- 
gence  must  rule.  Mob  violence  and  mob 
rule  is  distressing,  but  the  rule  and 
government  of  intelligence  is  what  we 
all  desire,  for  when  the  righteous  rule 
the  people  rejoice,  and  when  the  wicked 
rule  the  people  mourn.  We  are  in  favor 
of  good  government;  we  are  in  favor  of 
intelligence.  We  give  our  children  the 
best  education  that  we  can.  Our  aca- 
demies and  our  seminaries  of  learning 
show  this.  The  first  house  for  public 
purposes  that  is  built  in  any  of  our  set- 
tlements is,  as  a  rule,  the  school  house. 
We  have  always  demonstrated  that  we 
were  in  favor  of  education.  We  want 
doctrines,  but  we  want  likewise 
good  education.  We  don't  want 
to  be  taught  false  theories  and 
false  doctrines,  but  we  want 
the  truth  as  it  is  in  Christ 
Jesus,  because  to  know  God  and  Jesus 
Christ  whom  He  hath  sent  is  eternal 
.life;  and  we  want  this  eternal  life. 
That  is  one  reason  why  we  assemble 
in  conference — to  learn  of  the  ways  of 
the  Lord,  that  we  may  walk  in  His 
paths.  We  want  to  understand  th?  con- 
ditions of  salvation. 

I  have  a  profound  affection  for  the 
Apostle  John.  He  says,  in  the  first 
chapter  of  his  first  epistle: 


"That  which  was  from  the  beginning, 
which  we  have  heard,  which  we  have 
seen  with  our  eyes,  which  we  have 
looked  upon,  and  our  hands  have  han- 
dled, of  the  Word  of  life; 

"(For  the  life  was  manifested,  and  we 
have  seen  it,  and  bear  witness,  and 
show  unto  you  that  eternal  life  which 
was  with  the  Father,  and  was  mani- 
fest unto  us;) 

"That  which  we  have  seen  and  heard 
declare  we  unto  you,  that  ye  also  may 
have  fellowship  with  us;  and  truly  our 
followship  is  with  the  Father  and  with 
His  Son  Jesus  Christ. 

"And  these  things  write  we  unto 
you  that  your  joy  may  be  full." — (I 
John  i,  1-4.) 

He  thus  wrote  unto  the  saints, 
those  who  had  obeyed  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel  —  the  doc- 
trine of  Christ.  They  believed  and 
worshipped  the  living  and  true  God 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  accepting 
the  atonement;  they  had  repented  of 
their  sins  and  of  their  false  doctrines 
and  theories;  they  had  been  baptized 
by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  their 
sins;  they  had  received  the  efficacy  of 
the  precious  blood  of  Christ  which  fol- 
lows the  water  and  they  had  received 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  He  further 
says: 

"This  then  is  the  message  which  we 
have  heard  of  him,  and  declare  unto 
you,  that  God  is  light  and  in  Him  is 
no  darkness  at  all." 

That  is  what  we  believe. 

"If  we  say  that  we  have  fellowship 
with  Him  and  walk  in  darkness,  we 
lie,  and  do  not  the  truth." 

Now  mark  you, 

"But  if  we  walk  in  the  light  as  he 
is  in  the  light,  we  have  fellowship  one 
with  another  and  the  blood  of  Jesus 
Christ  his  Son  cleanseth  us  from  all 
sin."    (I  John  i,  5-7.) 

These  are  the  conditions:  "If  we  walk 
in  the  light  as  he  is  in  the  light  we  have 
fellowship  one  with  another  and  the 
blood  of  His  Son  Jesus  Christ  cleanseth 
us  from  all  sin."  We  believe  that.  We 
believe  that  it  is  necessary  for  us  to 
walk  in  the  light;  we  believe  that  it  is 
necessary  for  us  to  keep  the  command- 
ments of  Almighty  God;  and  we  nave 
seen  that  God  is  with  those  that  love 
Him  and  keep  His  commandments. 

The  life    of    our    beloved  President, 


ELDER   GEORGE  TEASDALE. 


31 


Lorenzo  Snow,  was  reviewed  on  the  oc- 
casion I  referred  to;  it  was  a  grand 
record.  Then  I  thought  of  President 
Wilford  Woodruff;  of  President  John 
Taylor;  of  President  Brigham  Young; 
of  President  Joseph  Smith,  these  ser- 
vants of  God  who  have  stood  the  brunt 
and  burden  of  the  day,  being  right  in 
the  front  of  the  battle;  and  also  I 
thought  of  their  counselors:  Heber  C. 
Kimball,  Daniel  H.  Wells,  Willard 
Richards,  Jedediah  M.  Grant,  George 
A.  Smith  and  others  who  have  passed 
away — men  who  have  made  the  record 
of  a  well-spent  life;  who  have  done  the 
will  of  God  and  kept  His  command- 
ments. I  thought  what  a  glorious 
record  this  was.  What  have  they 
demonstrated?  They  have  demonstrat- 
ed that  they  loved  righteousness  rath- 
er than  the  things  of  the  world.  Here 
is  what  the  beloved  disciple  says  on 
this  matter: 

"Love  not  the  world,  neither  the 
things  that  are  in  the  world.  If  any 
man  love  the  world  the  love  of  the 
Father  is  not  in  him. 

"For  all  that  is  in  the  world,  the  lust 
of  the  flesh,  and  the  lust  of  the  eyes, 
and  pride  of  life,  is  not  of  the  Father, 
but  is  of  the  world. 

"And  the  world  passeth  away,  and  the 
lust  thereof,  but  he  that  doeth  the  will 
of  God  abideth  forever."  (I  John  ii,  15- 
17.) 

I  say  God  is  with  us,  because  we  do 
His  will.  If  we  do  not  the  will  of  God, 
we  have  no  promise,  for  the  Lord  has 
said:  "When  you  do  as  I  say,  I  am 
bound  to  fulfill,  but  when  you  do  not, 
you  have  no  promise."  (Doctrine  and 
Covenants).    John  further  says: 

"Little  children,  it  is  the  last  time, 
and  as  ye  have  heard  that  antichrist 
shall  come,  even  now  are  there  many 
antichrists;  whereby  we  know  that  it 
is  the  last  time. 

"They  went  out  from  us,  but  they 
were  not  of  us;  for  if  they  had  been 
of  us  they  would  no  doubt  have  con- 
tinued with  us;  but  they  went  out  that 
they  might  be  made  manifest  that  they 
were  not  all  of  us. 

"But  ye  have  an  unction  from  the 
Holy  One,  and  ye  know  all  things. 

"I  have  not  written  unto  you  because 
you  know  not  the  truth,  but  because 
ye  know  it,  and  that  no  lie  is  of  the 
truth."  (I  John  ii,  18-21.) 


Why  do  we  pay  our  tithes  and  of- 
ferings? To  be  obedient  and  do  the 
will  of  God.  That  was  a  grand  sermon 
that  used  to  be  preached  by  Bishop 
Kdward  Hunter:  "Pay  your  tithes  and 
offerings  and  be  blessed."  He  that  has 
lived  that  principle  can  bear  testimony 
to  the  truth  of  what  was  referred  to 
by  Brother  John  W.  Taylor:  "Whoso 
will  do  the  will  of  the  Father  shall 
know  of  the  doctrine."  Well,  how  do  we 
know?  Because  we  have  the  living 
witness.  We  learned  in  our  obedience 
that  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  re- 
mision  of  sins  is  necessary.  God  never 
established  anything  that  was  non-es- 
sential. Jesus  Christ  told  Nicodemus 
that  unless  he  was  born  again  he  could 
not  see  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  that 
unless  he  was  born  of  the  water  and 
of  the  Spirit  he  could  in  no  wise  enter 
into  the  kingdom  of  God;  and  when  He, 
Jesus  went  unto  John  to  be  baptized  of 
him,  and  John  forbade  him,  He  said, 
"Suffer  it  to  be  so  now  for  thus  it  be- 
cometh  us  to  fulfill  all  righteousness." 
There  are  two  principles,  Christ'  and 
anti-Christ.  Anti-Christ  is  opposed  to 
the  doctrine  of  Christ.  Anti-Christ  says 
the  ordinances  are  non-essential; 
Christ  says  these  ordinances  are  essen- 
tial. He  also  says  "not  those  that  say 
Lord,  Lord  shall  inherit  the  kingdom, 
but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  My  Father 
which  is  in  heaven."  Again — "He  that 
heareth  these  sayings  cf  mine  and 
doeth  them,  I  will  liken  to  a  man  that 
built  his  house  tipon  a  rock,  and  the 
winds  blew  and  the  rains  descended 
and  beat  upon  that  house,  but  it  stood, 
because  it  was  built  upon  a  rock," 
"but  he  that  heareth  these  sayings  of 
mine  and  doeth  them  not,  is  like  the 
man  that  built  his  house  upon  the 
sand,  etc."  The  difference  between  the 
obedient  and  disobedient." 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  T 
bear  testimony  that  God  is  with  us; 
that  we  are  the  Church  of  Christ, 
representing  the  Church  of  the  Lamb 
upon  the  earth;  and  we  be- 
lieve these  everlasting  principles; 
we  appreciate  them;  and  by  reference 
to  the  Scriptures  we  can  show  that  it  is 
no  new  doctrine;  that  as  it  was  in  the 
beginning,  is  now  and  ever  will  be. 
These  doctrines  and  principles  of  ever- 
lasting life  are  eternal. 
Another  impression  that  was  made 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


upon  my  mind  when  thinking  of-  the 
glory  of  a  well- spent  life:  I  thought 
that  these  brethren,  these  representa- 
tive men,  were  kind  to  themselves;  I 
thought  they  had  chosen  the  better 
part;  they  had  taken  up  the  cross  of 
Christ;  and  they  had  advocated  the 
principles  of  Almighty  God  and  His 
righteousness  down  to  the  very  last, 
enjoining  upon,  their  children,  and  upon 
their  children's  children  to  be  true  and 
faithful  to  the  everlasting  principles  of 
the  Gospel,  that  they  may  inherit  that 
rest  that  was  promised  unto  those  that 
would  love  God  and  keep  His  com- 
mandments. What  is  meant  by  that 
rest?  It  means  a  fulness  of  everything; 
to  enjoy  a  fulness  of  love,  a  fulness  of 
light,  a  fulness  of  intelligence,  a  fulness 
of  power;  to  sit  down  with  Christ  upon 
His  throne,  as  He  has  overcome  and 
sits  upon  the  throne  of  the  Father — the 
promise  that  was  given  unto  the  Israel 
of  God — the  promise  that  was  given  to 
the  sons  of  the  Most  High.  Do  we  under- 
stand these  principles?  Do  we  under- 
stand the  value  of  a  well-spent  life? 
Do  we  understand  the  glory  of  loving 
God  and  keeping  His  commandments, 
and  of  keeping  ourselves  clean  and  un- 
spotted from  the  world?  This  is  what 
we  want  to  understand.  We  want  to 
magnify  the  Priesthood  God  has  given 
us  and  the  Lord  has  told  us  concerning 
the  magnifying  of  the  Priesthood,  that 
we  can  rightly  have  some  idea  as  to 
what  we  can  attain  to,  because  the  Lord 
has  been  very  kind  unto  us  in  giving 
unto  us  the  principles  of  the  everlasting 
Gospel,  and  has  taught  us  the  value  of 
the  Priesthood.  He  requires  an  intelli- 
gent obedience. 

Let  me  refer  you  to  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  page  290: 

"And  this  greater  Priesthood  (the 
Melchisedek)  administereth  the  Gospel 
and  holdeth  the  key  of  the  mysteries  of 
the  kingdom,  even  the  key  of  the 
knowledge  of  God; 

"Therefore,  in  the  ordinances  there- 
of, the  power  of  godliness  is  manifest; 

"And  without  the  ordinances  thereof, 
and  the  authority  of  the  Priest- 
hood, the  power  of  godliness  is  not 
manifest     to     man     in     the  flesh; 

"For  without  this  no  man  can  see 
the  face  of  God,  even  the  Father,  and 
live. 

"Now  this  Moses  plainly  taught  to  the 


children  of  Israel  in  the  wilderness,  and 
sought  diligently  to  sanctify  his  people 
that  they  might  behold  the  face  ot 
God. 

"But  they  hardened  their  hearts  and 
could  not  endure  his  presence,  there- 
fore, the  Lord  in  his  wrath  (for  his  an- 
ger was  kindled  against  them)  swore 
that  they  should  not  enter  into  his  rest 
while  in  the  wilderness,  which  rest  is 
the  fulness  of  his  glory."  (Sec.  86,  v. 
19-24.) 

Again,  "For  whoso  is  faithful  to  the 
obtaining  of  these  two  Priesthoods  of 
which  I  have  spoken,  (the  Aaronic  and 
Melchisedec)  and  the  magnifying  their 
calling,  are  sanctified  by  the  Spirit  unto 
the  renewing  of  their  bodies; 

"They  become  the  sons  of  Moses  and 
of  Aaron,  and  the  seed  of  Abraham, 
and  the  church  and  kingdom,  and  the 
elect  of  God; 

"And  also  they  who  receive  this 
priesthood  receiveth  me,  saith  the  Lord; 

"For  he  that  receiveth  my  servants 
receiveth  me; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth 
my  Father; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  my  Father 
receiveth  my  Father's  kingdom;  there- 
fore all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  ba 
given  unto  him; 

"And  this  is  according  to  the  oath  and 
covenant  which  belongeth  to  the  Priest- 
hood. 

"Therefore,  all  those  who  receive  the 
priesthood  receive  this  oath  and  cove- 
nant of  my  Father,  which  he  can  not 
break,  neither  can  it  be  moved; 

"But  whoso  breaketh  this  covenant 
after  he  hath  received  it,  and  altogether 
turneth  therefrom,  shall  not  have  for- 
giveness of  sins  in  this  world  nor  in 
the  world  to  come."  (Doc.  and  Cov. 
Sec.  86,  v.  33-41.) 

I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  that 
this  Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God  has 
been  restored  to  the  earth;  and  that 
the  Church  of  Christ  is  organized  upon 
the  earth,  and  has  never  required  any 
re-organization — that  is  simply  non- 
sense. It  has  always  been  intact..  God 
has  been  with  us  from  the  beginning; 
from  the  day  when  He  took  the  boy 
Joseph  Smith  up  to  the  present  time, 
and  it  is  by  the  grace  of  God  that  we 
are  sustained.  It  is  by  the  grace  of 
God  that  we  grow  and  increase  as 
we   are  growing  and   increasing,  be- 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 


33 


cause  God  has  determined  to  establish 
His  righteousness  upon  the  earth  and 
He  will  do  it.   He  is  educating-  us. 

Now  let  me  exhort  you  my  beloved 
brethren  and  sisters  to  serve  God  and 
keep  His  commandments,  for  this  is  the 
whole  duty  of  man.  We  can  not  make 
any  excuse  for  rejecting  the  ordinances 
of  the  house  of  God,  and  we  can  not 
make  any  excuse  for  rejecting  the  love 
of  God.  We  represent  Christ  by  accept- 
ing His  doctrine.  When  we  are  in  favor 
of  the  doctrine  of  Christ  we  manifest 
our  faith  by  our  works,  and  conse- 
quently are  saved  by  grace  and  are 
justified  by  faith,  because  we  manifest 
our  faith  by  our  works.  There  is  the 
key.  It  is  all  nonsense  that 
ordinances  are  non-essential.  They 
are  essential  and  have  to  be  ad- 
ministered by  the  proper  authority  in 
order  that  we  may  obtain  redemption 
from  death  and  from  hell  and  from  the 
grave,  and  in  order  that  we  may  not 
die  in  our  sins,  for  if  we  do  reject  the 
ordinances  of  the  house  of  God  we  will 
die  in  our  sins.  If  we  want  to  be  re- 
deemed, we  have  to  accept  and  obey  the 
message  of  Almighty  God.  We  have 
done  so,  and  it  has  brought  us  out  of 
the  darkness  which  covers  the  earth. The 
Gospel  message  is  extending  upon  our 
right  hand  and  upon  our  left,  and  God 
is  gathering  His  people,  His  Israel,  as 
He  predicted  He  would  do. 

I  pray  God  our  eternal  Father  that 
we  may  have  grace  to  overcome  temp- 
tation, obey  His  commandments  and  in 
the  end  be  saved  in  His  kingdom 
through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

God  moves  in  a  mysterious  way 
His  wonders  to  perform. 

Benediction  by  Elder  B.  H.  Roberts. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 
2  p.  m. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  commencing: 

How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of 
the  Lord, 

Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  His  excellent 
word. 

What  more  can  He  say  than  to  you  He 
hath  said, 

You  who  unto  Jesus  for  refuge  have 
fled. 


Prayer  by  Elder  Angus  M.  Cannon. 
The  hymn  which  begins, 

For  the  strength  of  the  hills  we  bless 
Thee, 

Our  God,  our  Father's  God, 
was  sung  by  the  choir. 

ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 

The  Saints  successful  colonizers— Should  seek  to 
obtain  the  most  perfect  products  from  the  soil — 
Suitable  literature  should  be  utilized. 

I  am  happy  in  the  opportunity  of 
meeting  with  you  again  in  general  con- 
ference. I  have  had  great  pleasure  in 
listening  to  the  remarks  that  have  been 
made  by  the  brethren  who  have  spoken 
to  us  thus  far  in  the  conference;  and  if 
I  can  have  your  faith  and  prayers  and 
the  Spirit  that  has  actuated  their  ut- 
terances, I  desire  to  speak  upon  several 
topics,  in  brief,  that  are  in  my  judg- 
ment of  material  interest  to  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints. 

We  have  not  obtained  our  present  po- 
sition in  the  world  altogether  upon  the 
ground  of  the  spiritual  Instruction 
embraced  in  the  Gospel.  The  practical 
application  of  the  faith  we  have  es- 
poused has  probably  brought  us  a  very 
fair  share  of  the  respect  and  esteem  in 
which  we  are  held  by  many  thinking 
people  of  the  world  who  have  seen  the 
results  that  have  come  from  the  de- 
gree of  unity  we  have  exhibited  in  the 
practical  concerns  of  life.  Our  reputa- 
tion in  connection  with  the  deveopment 
of  the  land  that  we  have  occupied  has 
gone  out  to  the  world;  and  wherever 
men  may  be  found  who  are  desirous  of 
establishing  colonies  and  seeking  to  de- 
velop the  sections  of  country  which 
they  occupy,  they  are  anxious  to  secure 
men  who  are  conversant  with  the  meth- 
ods that  have  been  adopted  in  the  de- 
velopment of  those  sections  of  country 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  occupy  to- 
day. We  have  been  the  pioneers  in  the 
establishment  of  the  village  system. 
We  have  been  pioneers  in  the  distribut- 
ing of  water  in  the  forms  largely  util- 
ized at  the  present  time  in  this  western 
country.  While  the  Indians  and  the- 
Catholic  fathers  who  preceded  us  in 
various  sections  of  this  western  land 
had  achieved  some  success  in  utilizing 
the  water  by  irrigation,  it  remained  for 
the  Utah  pioneers,  and  they  that  fol- 
lowed them  in  the  planting  of  the 
standard  in  this  part  of  the  world,  to. 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


establish  and  apply  properly  and  suc- 
cessfully the  water,  that  has  made  the 
land  productive  and  brought  such  won- 
derful results.  This  has  brought  to  us 
the  notice  of  the  world.  "While  many 
practical  men  turn  away  from  most  of 
the  doctrinal  views  we  present,  the  re- 
sults which  have  been  manifest  in  the 
union  of  action  exhibited  in  the  devel- 
opment of  the  resources  of  our  section 
of  the  country  have  caused  them  to 
stop  and  examine,  and  they  have  been 
led  to  look  for  the  causes  which  have 
produced  these  results.  I  presume,  if 
an  examination  were  made  today 
among  men  who  have  been  in  some 
measure  conversant  with  the  efforts 
made  and  the  results  that  have  come 
therefrom,  it  would  be  found  that  many 
men  have  been  led  to  an  examination 
and  final  acceptance  of  our  faith  from 
its  practical  results  as  developed  in  the 
comforts  and  blessings  attendant  upon 
the  great  mass  of  the  people.  The 
changing  of  men  from  the  workshop 
and  the  smithy  in  foreign  lands  or  in 
different  parts  of  our  own  land,  to  the 
conditions  that  arise  from  the  posses- 
sion of  the  soil,  the  owning  of  a  house 
and  of  the  implements  of  husbandry, 
and  utilizing  the  industry  and  talents 
possessed  by  them,  has  brought  to  the 
people  a  degree  of  independence  that  is 
not  so  fully  marked  among  any  other 
people  with  whom  I  have  been  con- 
versant. 

I  am  extremely  anxious  in  this  con- 
nection that  there  shall  be  no  slacken- 
ing in  this  material  development — in 
the  extension  of  our  farms,  our  gar- 
dens, and  our  orchards,  and  in  the  abil- 
ity to  utilize  the  products  of  those 
farms,  gardens  and  orchards  in  the  in- 
terest of  ourselves,  by  being  able  to 
place  them  upon  the  markets  of  the 
world  in  such  form  as  will  bring  to  us 
the  best  prices  and  maintain  our  repu- 
tation for  judgment,  prudence  and  in- 
dustry. I  am  fearful  that  a  tendency 
in  the  direction  of  slackening  in  that 
pride  that  should  characterize  every 
man  and  woman  who  has  become  con- 
versant with  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel  is 
showing  itself,  in  some  instances,  in  de- 
grees of  laxity.  The  orchards  are  not 
receiving  that  attention,  the  gardens 
that  care,  and  the  farms  that  manifest 
industry  that  characterized  our  earlier 
efforts,  when  but  limited  areas  of 
ground  were  being  utilized  and  the  cul- 


tivation was  intense  in  order  that  it 
might  produce  the  best  possible  results 
and  meet  the  necessities  of  those  who 
occupied  the  same.  In  order  that  we 
may  continue  in  our  growth  and  de- 
velopment, and  be  enabled  to  have 
means  necessary  for  the  adornment  and 
beautifying  of  our  homes  and  the  en- 
largement of  the  spheres  in  which  we 
are  acting,  I  trust  that  there  shall  be 
no  slackening  in  connection  with  these 
matters.  Our  farmers  in  the  various 
sections  of  the  country  should  employ 
their  talents  in  the  direction  of  form- 
ing an  organization  suitable  to  them- 
selves, looking  to  the  proper  arrange- 
ment of  the  character  of  the  products 
that  shall  be  planted,  and  strive  in 
every  way  to  improve  these  products 
and  put  them  upon  the  market  in  such 
a  condition  that  wherever  ,they  are 
there  will  be  a  demand  for  them  that 
those  who  go  to  the  markets  will  ask 
for  Utah  peaches,  Utah  apples,  Utah 
vegetables,  and  buy  them  in  prefer- 
ence to  all  others,  because  they  are  put 
up  in  the  proper  form  and  are  the  best 
on  the  market.  It  seems  to  me  that  in 
this  matter  a  people  organized  as  we 
are,  with  our  ability  to  reach  every 
home,  could  so  act  in  unison  with  each 
other  upon  these  questions  that  thous- 
ands of  dollars  that  now  annually  go  to 
waste  within  our  border,  because  the 
fruit  and  the  vegetables  are  not  proper- 
ly cared  for,  might  be  utilized  in  bring- 
ing to  the  homes  of  the  people  the  nec- 
essary comforts  and  adornment  and 
providing  that  practical  and  proper 
education  which  shall  make  us  not 
alone  the  required  help  of  our  neighbors 
and  friends  who  want  men  possessing 
the  talent  to  develop  their  farms,  es- 
tablish their  villages  and  increase  the 
interests  of  the  people,  but  which  shall 
also  make  us  better  in  these  respects 
in  the  future  than  in  the  past. 

I  ask  you,  my  brothers  and  my  sisters, 
to  look  wisely  and  prudently  into  these 
propositions.  There  must  be  an  exten- 
sion of  opportunities  presented  to  the 
young  men  and  maidens  of  our  State 
in  the  direction  of  the  establishment  of 
homes.  We  are  extending  our  borders 
in  some  degree.  A  few  are  planting 
themselves  in  Mexico  a  few  in  Canada, 
a  few  northward  in  Idaho,  some  in 
Montana,  in  New  Mexico,  in  Arizona 
and  in  Colorado,  and  are  working  out 
these  problems  looking  to  the  material 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 


35 


uplifting  and  independence  of  the"  peo- 
ple of  God.  While  this  is  being  done,  we 
desire  that  each  step  in  the  direction  of 
our  development  shall  exhibit  the  fact 
that  we  have  a  purpose  and  object  in 
view — not  alone  the  spiritual  teaching 
of  the  people,  but  their  physical,  men- 
tal and  moral  development  and  their 
financial  worth.  And  if  we  can  estab- 
lish within  them  a  determination  to  do 
and  to  be  something  in  the  line  of  their 
moral  and  financial  development,  they 
will  begin  to  drink  in  of  the  spirit  of 
that  work  that  led  the  founders  of 
this  organization  to  move  westward 
in  the  hope  of  bringing  out 
the  powers,  developing  the  resources 
and  preparing  and  qualifying  the  men 
who  are  to  become  conversant  with  this 
work  for  the  great  mission  of  the  re- 
generation of  the  world.  It  leads  us  to 
the  conquering  of  the  elements  around 
us,  that  we  may  conquer  the  world;  not 
upon  the  basis  of  the  exercise  of  mili- 
tary dominion,  but  upon  the  basis  of 
a  developed  faith  and  an  understand- 
ing of  the  material  nature  of  the  work 
of  God.  The  Lord  has  planted  within 
our  bodies  a  spirit  that  is  in  touch 
with  His  Spirit,  and  He  purposes  to 
bring  out  every  power  of  mind  and 
body,  and  to  implant  in  the  soul  the 
highest  possible  understanding  of  the 
requirements  and  obligations  that  can 
attach  to  a  mortal. 

Therefore,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  in 
the  development  of  this  work  that  our 
Father  has  set  us  to  do,  no  greater 
part  can  be  given  to  men  than  provid- 
ing for  the  needs  of  their  fellows,  open- 
ing doorways  to  their  growth,  putting 
them  in  a  condition  of  independence 
upon  a  farm,  and  bringing  out  the  pow- 
er to  cultivate  and  manage  for  them- 
selves, that  they  in  turn  may  employ 
their  talents  in  the  interest  of  others 
who  perchance  may  not  be  so  fully  de- 
veloped and  equipped  for  the  duties  and 
responsibilities  of  life.  Let  us  show  to 
the  world  that,  having  laid  the  founda- 
tion of  the  system  of  development  in 
this  region  of  the  country,  where  irri- 
gation is  a  necessity,  we  can  utilize  it 
to  the  uttermost  for  our  own  wellbeing 
and  for  the  wellbeing  of  our  fellow  men. 
In  the  extension  of  our  settlements,  in 
their  growth  and  expansion,  let  us 
exhibit  that  care,  that  wisdom,  that  in- 


telligence and  that  industry  that  shall 
entitle  us  to  such  expressions  as  I  have 
heard  on  railroad  trains  from  gentle- 
men who  have  said,  "I  see  that  we  are 
approaching  a  'Mormon'  settlement. 
There  is  an  evidence  of  joint  action  and 
union.  The  canals  are  larger;  while  the 
farms  are  small  they  are  widely  uti- 
lized." I  trust  that  inasmuch  as  we 
are  compelled  in  the  older  sections  of 
our  country  to  have  small  farms,  there 
will  be  a  union  of  action  in  the  plant- 
ing of  vegetables  and  grains,  fruits  and 
flowers,  so  that  whatever  we  may  have 
to  put  upon  the  market  there  will  be  in 
it  the  evidence  of  talent,  of  wisdom  and 
of  industry  manifested,  which  will 
bring  to  us  the  best  possible  results. 

I  have  another  subject  in  my  mind 
upon  which  I  wish  to  speak.  At  the 
present  time  it  is  claimed  that  we  have 
in  the  world  in  the  neighborhood  of  1800 
missionaries.  I  myself  believe  there  are 
ten  millions  of  people  who  are  believers 
in  this  work  upon  which  we  have  enter- 
ed. All  of  them,  it  may  be  true,  have 
not  come  within  the  fold;  but  I  believe 
there  are  ten  millions  of  people 
who  believe  in  the  doctrines  and 
mission  of  Joseph  Smith,  and 
in  that  priesthood  and  authority 
given  of  God  in  this  dispensation.  While 
many  of  them  stand  aloof,  in  their 
hearts  they  are  praying  for  its  develop- 
ment and  advancement  and  in  a  quiet 
way  lending  their  influence  for  the  fur- 
therance of  the  purposes  of  God.  Be- 
lieving that  this  condition  exists  to 
quite  a  degree  in  all  parts  of 
the  world  where  the  Elders  have 
made  their  way,  and  in  some 
sections  possibly  where  they 
have  not  made  their  way,  I  desire  to 
bring  before  this  congregation  a 
thought  in  connection  with  the  utili- 
zation of  the  printed  word.  We  see  our- 
selves at  the  present  time  engaged  in 
producing  many  newspapers  and  mag- 
azines, whose  sympathies  are  with  the 
work,  though  they  may  be  engaged  in 
some  specific  line.  As  I  note  the  estab- 
lishment of  newspapers  and  maga- 
zines in  our  midst,  I  wonder  from  time 
to  time  how  far  as  Saints  we  are  using 
this  agency  in  the  interest  of  the  devel- 
opment of  God's  work.  How  many  now 
under  the  sound  of  my  voice,  after  they 
have  looked  through  their  paper  or  their 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


magazine,  wrap  it  up  and  mail  it  to 
father,  or  mother,  to  brother  or  sister 
to  old-time  friend  and  acquaintance,  in 
Scandinavia.,  in  Germany,  in  Austria, 
France,  in  England,  in  Scotland,  in 
Wales,  or  in  the  States  of  this  Union? 
How  many,  after  having  seen  an  item 
that  would  impress  their  kindred  or 
their  friends  in  regard  to  the  conditions 
existing  here,  have  taken  the  trouble 
to  further  the  interest  of  the  work  of 
God  by  sending  the  paper  containing 
this  item  where  it  will  do  good?  I  ask 
you,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  to  ex- 
amine the  matter  in  this  light  of  wis- 
dom. Ix>ok  into  your  own  homes; 
study  the  character  of  the  magazines 
that  are  upon  your  own  tables,  which 
your  own  children  are  a  little 
loth  to  read  perchance,  and  which 
you  do  not  devote  very  much  time  to; 
note  their  contents,  and  send  them  in 
these  different  directions,  as  agencies, 
tending  to  bring  before  the  minds  of 
the  people  of  the  world  the  conditions 
that  surround  you,  and  that  you  live  in 
a  civilized  community.  There  are  many 
people  that  question  there  being  in  this 
western  country  a  people  who  have  the 
arts  of  civilization.  They  regard  us  in 
a  measure  as  savages,  and  are  there- 
fore inclined  to  close  their  minds 
against  us  and  say  harsh  things  rela- 
tive to  us. 

Occasionally  there  are  those  not  of 
our  society  who  write  articles  in  our 
defense,  and  who  are  anxious  to  spread 
among  the  people  with  whom  they 
have  been  acquainted  some  understand- 
ing of  the  character  of  the  people 
among  whom  they  at  present  reside. 
One  man  who  has  done  something  in 
this  respect  is  Mr.  Charles  Ellis.  He 
has  written  pamphlets  in  the  interest 
of  our  people,  exhibiting  their  charac- 
teristics, and  seeking  to  bring  before 
the  minds  of  people  outside  of  our  own 
circle  the  fact  that  while  Mormonism 
has  been  an  agency  in  the  dissemina- 
tion of  the  Christian  doctrines  as  Christ 
Himself  presented  them  to  the  world, 
it  has  also  been  an  agency  for  the  in- 
dustrial advancement  and  uplifting  of 
the  men  and  women  who  have  accepted 
of  its  principles  and  who  have  gathered 
within  its  charmed  circle.  "Where  in 
the  wide  universe  can  there  be  found  a 
body  of  ministers — as  the  world  would 
be  pleased  to  style  us — that  nave  laid 


the  foundation  of  the  material  well- 
being  of  a  people  as  has  been  done  by 
Brigham  Young  and  the  founders  of 
this  work  upon  this  the  backbone  of 
the  American  continent? 

My  brothers  and  my  sisters,  I  plead 
with  you  to  utilize  the  printed  word  as 
it  comes  from  the  pens  of  our  brethren, 
and  the  printed  word  of  strangers  who 
may  come  in  our  midst  and  become  im- 
pressed at  least  with  our  honesty  and 
our  devotion  to  God,  whether  they  can 
accept  the  views  we  may  entertain  in 
regard  to  God  and  His  Son  Jesus  Christ 
or  not,  so  that  a  knowledge  of  the  truth 
as  it  is  may  be  disseminated  abroad 
in  this  way  as  well  as  by  the  preach- 
ing of  the  word. 

I  feel  to  bear  my  witness,  in  connec- 
tion with  my  brethren,  to  truths  of  that 
Gospel  which  we  have  embraced.  God 
the  Father  came.  He  introduced  His. 
Son,  in  this  dispensation.  There  is  no 
mistake  in  regard  to  this  matter.  Hia 
voice  was  heard,  His  person  was  seen. 
The  keys  of  the  priesthood  of  eternity 
were  turned.  Man  was  instructed  to  go 
forth  and  preach  and  teach,  to  point  the 
way  of  temporal  life  as  well  as  the  way 
of  spiritual  life,  and  make  the  sons  and 
daughters  of  God  acquainted  with  the 
means  and  methods  by  which  they 
could  indeed  be  saved  here  as  well  as 
hereafter.  Therefore,  let  us  fulfil  our 
mission,  scatter  the  printed  word,  point 
the  way  and  help  the  millions  outside 
whose  hearts  have  been  touched  in 
some  degree  by  this  work,  and  who  are 
watching  and  waiting  in  anticipation 
of  its  development,  though  lacking  the 
moral  force  to  put  on  the  armor  of  eter- 
nal truth  and  proclaim  it  in  force  and 
power  unto  the  world.  Let  us  awaken 
these  from  their  lethargy,  arouse  them 
from  their  sleepiness,  and  plant  within 
their  hearts  the  truth  that  God's  work 
has  come,  and  that  all  should  accept 
and  love  it  because  it  teaches  them  the 
way  of  spiritual  as  well  as  temporal 
life. 

May  God  bless  and  prosper  the  good 
work;  may  its  truth  be  written  upon 
our  hearts  and  souls;  may  we  never 
fail  to  do  our  part  in  connection  with 
its  advancement,  is  my  prayer  in  the- 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  Temple  choir  sang  the  selection,. 
Shall  we  meet  beyond  the  river? 


ELDER  ERA  A  CIS  M.  LYMAN 


37 


ELDER  F.  M.  LYMAN. 

Comprehensiveness  of  the  plan  of  Salvation— Faith 
the  result  of  evidence— What  we  enjoy  here  a  fore 
taste  of  that  which  is  to  come — Forgiveness  asso- 
ciated with  repentance— Testimony  of  Jesus  and 
of  the  ancient  and  modern  prophets. 

I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
you  will  give  me  the  same  support  of 
your  faith  and  prayers  that  you  have 
my  brethren  who  have  spoken,  that  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  assist  me  as 
they  have  been  assisted.  Many  thoughts 
pass  before  the  mind  when  we  hear  our 
brethren  speak  upon  the  principles  of 
life  and  salvation.  We  realize  that  we 
are  connected  with  a  very  important 
work— as  important,  no  doubt,  as  any 
work  that  has  ever  been  established  up- 
on this  earth.  The  fact  that  it  has  been 
introduced  by  our  heavenly  Father  and 
is  His  work,  for  the  salvation  of  the 
children  of  men,  certainly  should  be 
evidence  enough  to  make  it  of  suffi- 
cient importance  for  us  to  give  to  it  our 
undivided  attention. 

The  authority  of  the  Lord  has  been 
revealed  in  our  day,  and  it  is  possessed 
by  a  host  of  men.  "We  are  under  obli- 
gation to  bear  testimony  to  the  doc- 
trines that  are  revealed  for  the  salva- 
tion of  the  world,  that  light  may  come 
into  the  hearts  of  the  people;  for  this 
world  lieth  in  darkness,  in  a  fallen 
state.  We  are  dependent  upon  the  as- 
sistance of  our  heavenly  Father  for  our 
redemption,  and  it  is  important  that  we 
should  be  redeemed  in  this  life.  The  de- 
sign of  our  Father  is  that  His  children 
should  be  relieved  from  the  effects  of 
the  fall,  be  redeemed  from  the  power  of 
sin  and  Satan,  and  be  brought  back  in- 
to fellowship  with  Him.  The  plan  that 
He  has  offered  us  for  this  purpose 
commends  itself  to  every  honest,  un- 
prejudiced soul,  because  it  is  a  reason- 
able plan,  founded  on  truth.  It  has 
saved  people  before,  it  is  saving  people 
now,  and  will  save  people  so  long  as 
there  are  people  to  be  saved,  and  there 
always  will  be  people  to  be  saved. 
When  we  think  of  this  work  as  it  has 
been  spoken  of  in  this  conference,  and 
what  it  has  accomplished  in  sixty-nine 
years,  we  cannot  help  but  be  impressed 
with  it.  Though  there  be  many  people 
who  have  never  heard  of  us,  yet  this 
work  has  stirred  the  world.  There  is 
not  a  nation  perhaps  but  what  has  been 
more  or  less  agitated  in  regard  to  this 


people  and  our  doctrines;  and  there  are 
many  people,  as  suggested  by  Elder 
John  Henry  Smith,  that  believe  the 
doctrine  but  have  not  the  courage  to 
embrace  it,  because  it  is  so  unpopular 
and  so  trying  to  men's  souls. 

The  Gospel  is  suited  to  all  the  condi- 
tions of  mankind.  It  will  meet  every 
requirement  of  man,  and  it  will  satisfy 
every  rational  ambition  and  every 
righteous  desire  of  the  human  heart.  It 
is  perfect  in  every  respect.  It  is  broad 
enough  and  deep  enough  for  the  rich 
and  for  the  poor,  for  the  intelligent  and 
for  the  ignorant.  It  will  bring  to 
every  person  exactly  what  is  necessary 
for  his  salvation.  If  men  need  to  be 
humbled,  it  will  school  them.  If  they 
need  to  be  exalted,  it  will  lift  them  up. 
If  they  have  need  to  be  reformed,  it  will 
reform  them.  In  fact,  as  I  have  said, 
it  will  meet  all  the  requirements  of 
human  nature. 

The  first  principle  of  the  Gospel  is 
faith  in  God.  How  could  we  have  such 
faith  as  is  established  among  this  peo- 
ple, if  it  were  not  for  evidence?  Men 
may  believe  the  doctrines  that  are 
taught  them,  but  it  takes  reliable  evi- 
dence to  establish  faith  in  the  hearts 
of  the  children  of  men;  for  we  are  rea- 
sonable beings,  the  offspring  of  reason- 
able parents,  and  we  need  to  be  con- 
vinced that  the  doctrines  are  what  they 
profess  to  be.  We  need  not  only  to  be- 
lieve in  God,  but  we  need  to  have  faith 
in  Him.  When  faith  springs  up  in  the 
heart,  its  germs  are  living  germs,  and  it 
develops  and  increases  as  the  soul  re- 
mains in  proper  condition  for  its  growth 
and  development;  and  as  it  increases  in 
our  hearts,  so  we  labor,  so  we  are  hum- 
ble, so  we  are  faithful  and  devoted 
to  the  Lord.  We  desire  to  become  more 
acquainted  with  God,  and  with  the 
principles  that  have  made  Him  and  His 
Son  so  great,  and  that  have  made  so 
many  of  His  posterity  great  men  and 
women.  We  desire  to  go  back  into  His 
presence.  The  Gospel  is  taught  for  this 
purpose,  and  it  is  having  its  influence 
over  us.  We  are  listening  to  the  coun- 
sels of  the  Holy  Spirit.  True,  we  have 
at  our  head  a  prophet,  seer  and  revela- 
tor.  We  have  quite  a  number  of  them. 
Then  in  every  home,  in  every  ward,  in 
every  stake,  in  every  quorum,  in  every 
mission,  and  in  every  department  of 
this  work  there  are  men  with  the  in- 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


spiration  of  the  Holy  G-host,  the  testi- 
mony of  the  Lord  Jesus;  and  that  testi- 
mony directs  these  men  acording  to  the 
degree  in  which  they  are  devoted  to 
the  service  of  God  and  lose  their  own 
selfishness.    So  that  there  is  a  stream 
of  revelation  and  inspiration  coming  to 
the    Church,    not    only    through  the 
prophet,  seer  and  revelator  who  stands 
at  our  head  and  gives  the  word  of  the 
Lord  for  the  whole  Church,  but  it  comes 
to  every  man  and  woman.   It  has  borne 
record  to  your  hearts  during  this  con- 
ference,   as     it     has     done     in  all 
conferences     when    we    have  come 
together  with  a  desire  to  know  the  will 
of  God.    The  testimony  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  in  our  hearts  has  brought  con- 
viction and  satisfaction  to  our  souls, 
and  we  have  had  a  taste  of  inspiration 
and  a  measure  of  understanding  in  re- 
gard to  the  Gospel  of  life  and  salvation. 
We  have  been  saved  a  little;  and  as  we 
have  learned  and  enjoyed  a  little  in  this 
life,  so  shall  we  in  the  world  to  come 
enjoy  much.    As  in  this  life  we  have 
been  faithful  over  a  few  things,  in  the 
world  to  come  we  shall  be  made  rulers 
over  many  things.   As  we  have  a  fore- 
taste of  heaven  in   this   life,  we  shall 
have  a  fulness  of  joy  and  happiness  in 
the  world  to  come.   And  it  may  be  in- 
creased very  materially  in  this  life.  We 
have  no  need  to  be  satisfied  with  the 
little  we  have  already  received;  for  the 
windows  of  heaven  are  open,  and  in- 
spiration comes  to  us  just  as  freely  and 
as  liberally  as  our  hearts  are  open  to 
receive  it.    Heaven  may  be  upon  this 
earth,  and  no  doubt  it  will  be.   We  are 
having  a  little  foretaste  of  these  things 
now.    We  know  what  is  good,  what  is 
sweet,  what  is  delicious,  what  is  pre- 
cious, and  what  is  valuable  to  us  in  this 
life,  and  what  is  suited  to  our  needs 
and  desires;  and  we  shall  want  a  ful- 
ness of  these  things  hereafter.    But  if 
we  are  wise  we  shall  come  as  near  to 
obtaining  a  fulness  in  this  life  as  we 
can.   We  will  seek  the  riches  of  eternity 
here.   We  can  take  the  riches  of  eternal 
life  with  us  when  we  leave  this  sphere, 
but  we  cannot  take  the  riches  of  this 
world.   Yet  the  riches"of  this  world  are 
convenient  and  necessary,  and  we  can- 
not very  well  get  along  without  them. 
But  the  riches  of  eternal  life  are  last- 
ing and  permanent.    They  come  from 
the  good  we  accomplish,  the  righteous- 
ness we  bring  to  pass,    the   purity  to 


which  we  attain,  the  cleansing  and  puri- 
fying of  our  own  hearts,  that  we  may 
come  as  near  being  perfect  in  this  life 
as  our  Father  and  His  Son  Jesus  Christ 
are  perfect.  Why  shall  we  not  do  right? 
What  commandments  of  the  Lord  are 
there  that  we  cannot  observe?  What  re- 
quirements are  there  in  this  Church 
that  we  cannot  comply  with?  The 
Lord  wants  us  to  have  faith  in  Him. 
Now,  that  is  possible.  He  has  the 
faith  to  bestow.  He  is  the  giver  of  it. 
Man  cannot  impart  it.  It  is  the  gift 
of  God — a  gift  that  He  is  anxious  to 
bestow  upon  all  His  children. 

Repentance  is  also  a  gift  from  the 
Lord,  as  precious  as  faith.  We  cannot 
be  saved  by  faith  alone.  We  must  re- 
pent. Repentance  is  necessary  to  sal- 
vation. Elder  M.  W.  Merrill  suggested 
that  the  first  step  to  get  out  of  debt  was 
to  quit  going  in  debt;  so  I  say  that  the 
very  first  step  to  repentance  is  to  quit 
sinning  and  to  become  manly,  honor- 
able and  upright.  There  is  no  forgive- 
ness of  sin  without  repentance.  For- 
giveness does  not  come  by  faith  alone, 
nor  by  promising  that  we  will  do  better 
some  time.  It  is  necessary  that  we 
should  cease  sinning  and  begin  to  do 
well.  Where  we  were  liars,  we  must 
tell  the  truth;  where  we  were  unright- 
eous and  impure,  we  must  be  pure  and 
upright.  Then  we  can  obtain  the  bless- 
ing of  forgiveness.  Is  there  a  man  in 
the  world  that  can  say  that  that  is  un- 
reasonable? Is  it  reasonable  that  men 
should  be  forgiven  of  their  sins  if  they 
do  not  cease  sinning?  Certainly  not. 
Men  must  cease  to  sin,  and  turn  to  the 
Lord;  for  there  is  no  one  else  can  for- 
give. We  are  not  able  to  forgive  each 
other's  sins.  We  cannot  atone  for  our 
own  sins.  That  is  why  it  was  necessar> 
that  the  Son  of  God  should  come  from 
heaven,  where  He  had  such  joy  and 
glory  with  the  Father,  into  this  world 
and  offer  an  atonement  for  mankind. 
He  offered  His  life  and  suffered  as  a 
God  only  could  suffer,  in  order  that 
men  might  be  relieved  of  their  sins. 
Man  could  not  do  that;  it  was  the  work 
of  a  God.  And  it  is  the  work  of  God 
to  give  you  and  me  faith  and  repent- 
ance. These  are  principles  that  come 
from  the  upper  world,  not  from  be- 
neath. We  must  therefore  look  above 
for  them,  and  the  Lord  will  give  them 
to  us,  but  on  proper  principles.  Now, 
if  we  can  have  faith  in  the  Lord,  if  we 


ELDER  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAA 


39 


can  repent  and  have  our  sins  blotted 
out,  is  it  not  profitable  to  us  to  sacri- 
fice our  tastes,  our  appetites,  our  car- 
nal desires,  and  those  principles  that 
only  yield  a  temporary  satisfaction, 
that  we  may  obtain  these  precious 
blessings?  Men  are  not  curtailed  in 
their  joy  and  happiness,  but  are  rather 
increased  therein,  by  the  service  of  the 
Lord.  We  ought  not,  however,  to  be 
niggardly,  but  we  should  be  generous 
and  great-hearted  in  regard  to  these 
matters,  and  seek  to  vie  with  each  other 
in  seeing  which  can  accomplish  the 
most  for  the  salvation  of  the  children 
of  men.  We  should  see  which  can  be  the 
most  humble,  the  most  faithful  and  de- 
voted to  the  Lord,  in  order  that  we  may 
stand  in  the  fellowship  and  favor  of 
God.  For  there  is  no  real  joy  and  hap- 
piness, no  salvation,  except  that  which 
comes  from  the  Father,  in  answer  to 
the  atonement  of  His  Son  and  the  shed- 
ding of  His  precious  blood. 

How  grateful  and  thankful  we  ought 
to  be  for  this,  and  that  this  work,  re- 
vealed to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  has 
brought  that  knowledge  to  the  world!  I 
would  testify  of  this  with  my  brethren. 
The  Presidency  are  all  here,  the  Ados- 
tles  are  all  here,  the  presiding  quorum 
of  Seventies  are  all  here,  the  presiding 
Bishopric  are  here,  the  presiding 
patriarch  is  here.  I  do  not 
know  when  we  have  had  so  com- 
plete and  perfect  a  representation 
of  the  power  and  authority  of  God  at 
our  conference.  And  the  people  are  well 
represented  from  all  over  the  country. 
Now,  these  men  are  true  men,  whose 
hearts  and  souls  are  in  the  work  of  the 
Lord,  and  have  been  for  many  years. 
President  Snow,  President  Richards, 
President  Cannon  and  President  Smith 
are  men  who  were  intimately  acquaint- 
ed with  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
and  with  Hyrum  Smith,  and  with  tht. 
early  Apostles  and  Elders  of  the 
Church.  They  knew  their  private  lives 
and  their  public  labors,  and  that  God 
was  with  them.  Many  of  us  have  not 
known  them  so  intimately,  not  being  old 
enough;  but  the  Lord  has  revealed  to 
us  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of 
God,  and  we  know  it  just  as  President 
Snow  or  these  other  brethren  who  have 
had  the  privilege  of  shaking  hands  with 
the  Prophet.  Jesus  was  known  only 
by  those  who  received  that  knowledge 
from  the  Father.    Thousands  and  tens 


of  thousands  of  men  saw  the  Prophet 
Joseph  who  never  once  intimated  that 
they  thought  or  believed  that  he  was  a 
prophet  of  God.  Thousands  knew  the 
Son  of  God  personally,  but  they  never 
believed  He  was  the  Son  of  God,  be 
cause  the  Father  did  not  bear  record  to 
them.  But  to  us  He  has  borne  record 
that  Joseph  was  a  prophet  of  the  living 
God.  He  has  borne  record  to  us  that 
Jesus  is  His  Only  Begotten  Son  in  the. 
flesh,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  He 
committed  this  testimony  and  knowl- 
edge to  this  people.  He  has 
given  us  a  knowledge  also  concern- 
ing President  Brigham  Young,  that 
great  and  grand  man  who  led  Israel 
in  those  dark  and  dismal  days  after  the 
death  of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  out  of 
bondage  unto  this  land  of  liberty,  and 
established  us  here.  What  wonders 
he  did  for  us!  He  was  a  man  among 
men — the  very  proper  man  to  follow  in 
the  footsteps  of  the  Prophet  Joseph.  We 
do  not  know  him  as  we  will  yet  know 
him.  Then  President  John  Taylor,  the 
personification  of  devotion,  manliness 
and  courage!  No  more  honorable  and 
upright  man  than  John  Taylor  even 
lived.  And  President  Wilford  Wood- 
ruff, the  very  personification  of  humil- 
ity and  meekness,  of  conscientiousness 
and  honesty, — a  man  of  God!  And 
President  Lorenzo  Snow,  the  equal  of 
any  of  them!  Are  we  worthy,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  to  be  associated  with 
and  led  by  such  men?  If  so,  then  let 
us  listen  to  their  counsel,  and  uphold 
their  hands.  God  will  vindicate  His 
cause  in  the  earth.  It  is  spreading  to- 
day unobserved.  The  kingdom  grows, 
and  prosperity  waits  upon  us  as  a  peo- 
ple and  as  individuals.  Let  us  be  con- 
scientious, honest  and  upright,  and  be 
indeed  Latter-day  Saints,  teaching  the 
Gospel  by  example.  We  have  not  long 
to  live,  and  there  is  no  investment  like 
serving  God,  for  it  is  all  profit.  Let  me 
beg  of  you,  Presidents,  High  Councilors, 
Bishops,  and  men  who  bear  the  priest- 
hood, and  all  saints  who  have  named 
the  name  of  Jesus,  let  us  walk  in  the 
footsteps  of  the  Lord,  and  honor  Him 
the  remainder  of  our  days,  and  thus  be 
redeemed  from  the  power  of  Satan,  that 
old  monster;  for  we  are  in  his  domin- 
ion and  under  his  power  more  or  less, 
and  can  only  be  redeemed  by  the  ser- 
vice of  the  Lord. 
God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 


40 


GENERAL  COAFERENCE 


ters;  bless  Zion  and  all  her  interests; 
bless  our  nation— the  nation  that  has 
given  an  asylum  to  this  work  and  the 
people  of  God.  The  Lord  raised  it  up, 
and  He  is  directing  and  controlling  it. 
If  the  people  of  the  nation  have  of- 
fended in  the  past,  they  will  make  sat- 
isfaction; and  the  Lord  is  using  and 
directing  them,  as  He  will  direct  us,  for 
the  accomplishment  of  His  purposes. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 
Witnesses  of  the  truth — Those  whose  hearts  are  not 
hardened  receive  it — Some  Relieve  but  do  not 
openly  acknowledge — Enemies  of  Zion  aid  her 
cause — An  excellent  industrial  iustitution. 
My    brethren    and    sisters,  so  far 
throughout  this  conference  I  have  been 
delighted  and  edified  with  the  most  ex- 
cellent spirit  that  has  prevailed.    I  en- 
dorse heartily  all  that  has  been  said, 
and  I  exhort  you  to  a  diligent  and 
faithful  consideration  of  the  counsels 
and  instructions  we  have  received. 

The  testimonies  which  have  been 
borne  by  the  Apostles  in  relation  to  the 
divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  and  of  the  direction  by  God  of 
all  his  successors  down  to  the  present, 
are  true  witnesses  and  verifications  of 
God's  great  truth  restored  to  the  earth 
in  these  last  days,  which  all  mankind 
must  sooner  or  later  give  ear  to.  These 
testimonies  will  stand  as  a  witness  be- 
fore all  these  people  assembled  here, 
and  they  will  extend  out  unto  all  the 
world;  for  all  men  unto  whom  these 
testimonies  come  must  receive  or  re- 
ject them,  and  God  will  not  hold  them 
irresponsible  for  neglect  or  indifference 
in  relation  thereto. 

I  was  struck  by  a  remark  made  by 
one  of  the  brethren  with  respect  to 
the  many  people  who  saw  and  heard  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  yet  didn't 
believe  that  he  was  a  prophet  of  God, 
or  a  man  raised  up  by  the  Almighty 
to  lay  the  foundations  of  this  great 
latter-day  work.  It  was  said  that  the 
Lord  had  not  revealed  it  unto  them. 
Now,  I  do  not  dispute  that  statement, 
or  call  it  in  question;  but  it  occurred 
to  me  that  there  are  thousands  of  men 
who  have  heard  the  voices  of  the  in- 
spired servants  of  God,  unto  whom  the 
Almighty  has  borne  record  of  the  truth, 
and  yet  they  have  not  believed  it.  It  is 
my  opinion  that  the  Lord  bears  record 
to  the  testimonies  of  His  servants  unto 


those  who  hear  those  testimonies,  and  it 
is  left  with  them  whether  or  not  they 
will  harden  their  hearts  against  the 
truth  and  not  listen  to  it,  and  abide 
the  consequences.    I  believe  the  Spirit 
of  the  Almighty  God  is  upon  most  of 
the  Elders  who  go  out  into  the  world  to 
proclaim  the  Gospel.    I  believe  their 
words  are  accompanied  by  the  testi- 
mony of  the  Spirit  of  God.     But  all 
men  are  not  open  to  receive  the  wit- 
ness and  the  testimony  of  the  Spirit. 
And  the  responsibility  will    rest  with 
them.    Yet  it  may  be  possible  the  Lord 
withholds  His  Spirit  from  some,  for  a 
wise  purpose  in  Him,  that  their  eyes 
are  not  opened  to  see  and  their  minds 
not  quickened  to  comprehend  the  word 
of  truth.    As  a  rule,  however,  it  is  my 
opinion  that  all  men  who  are  seeking 
after  the  truth  and  are  willing  to  re- 
ceive it,  will  also  receive  the  witness  or 
the  Spirit  which  accompanies  the  words 
and  testimonies  of  the  servants  of  the 
Lord;   while   those   whose  hearts  are 
hardened  against  the  truth  and  will  not 
receive  it  when  it  is  borne  record  of 
to  them,  will  remain  ignorant  and  with- 
out a  comprehension  of  the  Gospel.  I 
believe  there  are  tens  of  thousands  of 
people  who  have  heard  the  truth  and 
have  been  pricked  in  their  hearts,  but 
they  are  seeking  every  refuge  they  pos- 
sibly can  to  hide  themselves  from  their 
convictions  of  the  truth.    It  is  among 
this  class  that  you  will  find  the  enemies 
to  the  cause  of  Zion.    They  are  oppos- 
ing the  truth  in  order  to  hide  them- 
selves from  it.   There  are  men  possibly 
within  the  sound  of  my  voice — certainly 
within  the  limits  of  this  city — who  have 
read  our  books,  who  have  listened  to 
the  discourses  of  the  Elders,  and  who 
are  familiar  with  the  doctrines  of  the 
Church;  but  they  will  not  acknowledge 
— openly,   at   least — the   truth   of  this 
Gospel  and  the  divinity  of  this  work. 
Well,    the    responsibility    rests  with 
them.    God  will  judge  them  and  deal 
with  them  in  His  own  way  and  time. 
Many  of  them  through  their  efforts  to 
bring  reproach  upon  the  cause  of  Zion, 
are  awakening  the  attention  of  people 
in  the  world  to  "Mormonism,"  and  thus 
unwittingly   advancing   the   cause  of 
Zion,  though  they  know  it  not.   I  thank 
God  my  Father  that  He  brings  good 
out  of  the  evil  designed  against  His 
people  by  their  enemies.    And  He  will 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  P  .  SMITH. 


41 


continue  to  do  this.  The  clouds  may 
gather  over  our  heads,  and,  as  in  the 
past,  it  may  seem  impossible  for  us  to 
penetrate  them;  yet  there  can  be  no 
-clouds  so  dark,  so  gloomy  or  so  heavy, 
but  God  will  roll  them  away  in  His 
■own  time  and  will  bring  good  out  of 
threatening  evil.  He  has  done  it  in 
the  past,  He  will  do  it  in  the  future;  for 
it  is  His  work,  not  the  work  of  man. 

Reference  was  made  here  by  one  of 
the  brethren  to  what  is  being  said  and 
done  with  a  view  to  bringing  reproach 
upon  the  Church,  because  one  of  its 
members  has  aspired  to  political  hon- 
ors, and  has  reached  the  goal  of  his 
aspiration  by  the  votes  of  the  people. 
They  are  seeking  to  make  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
responsible  for  the  election  of  one  of 
its  members  to  an  office  in  the  House  of 
Representatives  of  the  United  States 
Congress.  Let  me  say  to  this  congre- 
gation— which  will  be  borne  out  by  all 
my  brethren  and  by  the  truth — that 
Brother  B.  H.  Roberts  was  not  (and 
never  was)  the  candidate  of  the  Church 
•of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
for  Representative  to  Congress.  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  nor  any  of  its  au- 
thorities as  such  ever  had  one 
thing  to  do  with  his  nomina- 
tion or  election,  there  are  members  of 
the  Church  who  belong  to  his  political 
party  and  they  voted  for  him,  and  by 
their  votes  as  well  as  by  the  votes  of 
the  unbelievers  he  was  elected.  And 
now  these  miserable  scoundrels  that 
seek  to  blacken  the  character  of  the 
Church  and  try  to  bring  trouble  upon 
it,  are  endeavoring  to  make  it  appear 
that  the  Church  is  in  politics,  and  Bro- 
ther Roberts'  election  is  due  to  "Church 
influence."  This  is  not  true.  Brother 
Roberts  was  the  candidate  of  his  own 
party;  and  was  elected  by  his  party; 
the  Church  had  no  more  to  do  with  it 
than  it  had  to  do  with  the  election  of 
some  Senator  or  Representative  in  New 
York,  only  so  far,  as  I  said  before,  as 
members  of  his  political  party  voted  for 
him.  I  felt  that  I  wanted  to  say  this 
much  to  the  congregation;  and  I  know 
the  facts  bear  me  out  in  this  statement. 
The  Church  of  Christ  is  not  responsible 
for  the  actions  of  either  of  the  political 
parties,  in  any  sense,  or  form.  If  it 
were,  they  would  stop  their  quarreling 


and  contending,  and  the  bitterness  and 
animosity  they  exhibit  towards  one  an- 
other would  cease.  If  we  had  anything 
to  do  with  them,  we  would  stop  their 
wrangling,  and  we  would  have  peace  in 
their  ranks.  The  fact  that  they  quar- 
rel as  they  do  is  proof  positive  we  have 
nothing  to  do  with  them. 

We  have  had  some  excellent  remarks 
here  in  relation  to  our  home  industries 
and  to  the  labors  that  are  being  per- 
formed by  Z.  C.  M.  I.,  our  great  co- 
operative institution  which  was  estab- 
lished by  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  is 
conducted  upon  the  soundest  business 
principles,  and  is  today  one  of  the  most 
substantial  and  influential  institutions 
in  this  western  country.  It  is  giving 
employment  to  many  people,  and  pro- 
ducing shoes  and  wearing  apparel, 
thereby  saving  capital  at  home.  It  is 
an  institution  of  the  people.  It  was 
established  for  the  benefit  of  the  peo- 
ple of  Utah.  It  should  be  sustained  by 
the  people.  They  should  see  that  by 
their  patronage  it  is  made  strong  so 
that  it  may  never  waver  during  the 
hard  times  and  the  financial  wreck  and 
ruin  that  may  come  from  time  to  time. 
If  the  people  will  do  their  duty,  there 
will  be  one  institution  belonging  to 
them  which  will  always  be  upon  a  firm 
foundation.  And  we  ought  to  increase 
our  industries,  to  give  employment  to 
our  people.  In  relation  to  providing 
labor  for  those  who  come  here  from 
foreign  lands  through  obedience  to  the 
Gospel,  I  fear  we  are  not  as  careful  of 
their  welfare  now  as  we  were  in  year* 
past.  Formerly  they  were  assigned  to 
the  various  wards  as  they  came  in,  with 
recommendations  to  the  Bishops  and 
leading  men  to  look  after  them,  to  pro- 
vide them  labor,  and  assist  them  in 
their  inexperience,  that  they  might  ob- 
tain whatever  was  needful  for  their 
good,  and  eventually  establish  them- 
selves in  independency  and  prosperity 
by  the  results  of  their  own  labor.  This 
is  a  very  important  question.  It  is  al- 
so important  to  provide  labor  for  those 
who  have  been  accustomed  to  dwelling 
in  large  cities,  who,  when  they  come 
here,  feel  unable  to  make  a  living  any- 
where else  but  in  the  city.  We  have 
many  of  such  in  Salt  Lake  City,  and 
it  would  be  well  for  some  of  them  at 
least  to  go  into  the  new  settlements, 
take  up  land;  change  their  mode  of  liv- 


42 


GENERAL  CO  A  EE  R  ENCE. 


ing  to  some  extent,  and  grow  up  with 
the  community  in  which  they  make 
their  home,  and  not  settle  down  and 
depend  upon  the  precarious  chances  of 
obtaining'  employment  in  the  city, 
where  so  many  are  seeking  for  em- 
ployment. 

May  the  Lord  bless  Israel;  may  He 
prosper  Zion  and  all  her  people;  may 
the  way  be  opened  before  the  poor  and 
the  needy,  that  they  may,  by  their  own 
industry  and  perseverance,  obtain  all 
that  is  needful  for  their  good.  One 
reason  that  we  are  brought  so  promi- 
nently before  the  world  is  because  we 
have  adhered,  in  some  measure,  to  the 
instructions  given  in  the  revelations  of 
God  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
in  regard  to  industry.  There  should 
be  no  idlers  in  Zion.  Even  the  poor 
who  have  to  be  assisted  should  be  will- 
ing to  do  all  in  their  power  to  earn 
their  own  living.    Not  one  man  or  wo- 


man should  be  content  to  sit  down  and 
be  fed,  clothed  or  housed  without  any 
exertion  on  his  or  her  part  to  com- 
pensate for  these  privileges.  All  men 
and  women  should  feel  a  degree  of  in- 
dependence of  character  that  would 
stimulate  them  to  do  something  for  a 
living,  and  not  be  idle;  for  it  is  written 
that  the  idler  shall  not  eat  the  bread  of 
the  laborer  in  Zion,  and  he  shall  not 
have  place  among  us.  Therefore,  it  is 
necessary  that  we  should  be  industri- 
ous, that  we  should  intelligently  apply 
our  labor  to  something  that  is  produc- 
tive and  conducive  to  the  welfare  of  the 
human  family.  God  help  us  to  do  this, 
is  my  prayer.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang, 
We  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet. 

Benediction  by  Elder  George  Rey- 
nolds. 

Conference  adjourned  till  10  a.  m.  on 
Sunday. 


THIRD  DAY. 


MORNING  SESSION. 

Sunday,  April  9th,  10  a.  m. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang, 

Do  what  is  right,  let  the  consequence 
follow; 

Battle     for   freedom   in   spirit  and 
might, 

And  with  stout  hearts,  look  ye  forth  till 
tomorrow; 
God  will  protect  you,   do   what  is 
right. 

Opening  prayer  by  Elder  Rulon  S. 
Wells. 

Singing  by  the  choir: 

Softly  beams  the  sacred  dawning 
Of  the  great  Millennial  morn, 

And  to  Saints  gives  welcome  warning 
That  the  day  is  hasting  on. 

PRESIDENT    FRANKLIN    D.  RICH- 
ARDS. 

Importance  of  instruction  received— Our  Savior's 
Mission — The  life  and  immortality  of  men — 
Advice  to  young  men — New  and  increasing 
duties  during  life — Reference  to  Tithing — 
Exhortation  to  faithfulness,  -with  blessing. 

Beloved  hearers,  I  arise  with  a  deep 
sense  of  the  impossibility  of  any  man 
edifying  and  instructing  such  a  congre- 
gation as  this,  except  he  be  influenced 
by  the  spirit  of  truth.  Certainly,  unless 
he  be  inspired  therewith,  he  will  be  un- 
able to  feed  and  nourish  the  spirits  of 
his  hearers,  and  to  refresh  and  streng- 


then them  in  the  way  of  righteousness. 
Therefore,  I  earnestly  desire  that  as- 
sistence  without  which  it  is  impossible 
to  accomplish  what  is  most  desirable 
this  morning. 

When  we  contemplate  what  the  Lord 
is  doing  in  the  earth,  it  is  marvelous 
beyond  human  comprehension.  When 
we  pass  in  review  our  personal  exper- 
iences, we  find  all  along  the  path  of 
life  occasions  for  the  utmost  gratitude 
to  our  Heavenly  Father  for  His  kind 
and  faithful  care  in  preserving  us  in 
the  way  of  life  till  now.  When  we  have 
seen  so  many  turn  to  the  right  and  to 
the  left  and  forsake  the  cause  of  God, 
because  of  some  trivial  affair  perhaps, 
it  is  all  the  more  wonderful  and  is  oc- 
casion for  deeper  gratitude  on  our  part 
that  the  good  hand  of  the  Lord  has  as- 
sisted, steadied  and  sustained  us  until 
the  present.  We  have  received  at  this 
conference  such  a  variety  of  instruc- 
tions as  has  seemed  calculated  to  ex- 
tend over  all  the  periods  of  human  ex- 
istence, even  to  our  daily  economy,  the 
culture  of  our  gardens,  our  farms  and 
our  orchards.  The  way  of  life  has 
been  dwelt  upon;  and  if  we  have  been 
careful  hearers  and  have  treasured  up 
the  things  that  have  been  said,  certain- 
ly to  the  tractable  they  will  prove  very 


PRESIDENT  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS. 


4.3 


precious,  and  to  those  who  fail  to  be 
benefited  they  will  meet  a  great  and  ir- 
retrievable loss.  Being  surrounded 
with  many  cares,  with  the  inconveni- 
ences of  poverty.sometimes  with  pinch- 
ing want,  at  other  times  with  troubles 
brought  upon  ourselves  by  our  indis- 
cretion, we  naturally  get  but  part  of 
the  benefit  which  we  might  receive  if 
we  could  preserve  always  that  peaceful 
serenity  and  that  entire  composure 
which  belong  to  those  who  are  the  most 
perfectly  devoted  to  God  and  His  work. 

Having  had  some  little,  experience  in 
the  sixty  years  that  I  have  been  in  the 
Church,  and  hearing  the  brethren  talk 
as  they  have  during  this  conference,  it 
has  seemed  to  pick  up  and  bring  to 
review  much  of  what  I  have  experi- 
enced. 

In  large  congregations,  where  the 
Gospel  is  preached  to  strangers,  there 
is  a  great  variety  of  dispositions  pres- 
ent to  listen.  There  are  those  who  re- 
ceive the  words  of  the  Elder  and  drink 
them  in,  because  they  seem  exactly  to 
satisfy  the  soul,  and  the  whole  nature 
yields  accord  and  acceptance  to  the 
things  that  are  taught.  Many  of  us 
can  remember  when  we  first 
heard  the  sound  of  the  Gospel.  It  came 
to  us  with  a  most  grateful  and  satisfy- 
ing influence,  and  we  embraced  it  the 
first  time  we  heard  it.  There  are  those 
whose  hearts  and  consciences  are  right 
before  the  Lord,  who  are  ready  to  re- 
ceive the  truth,  and  the  Holy  Spirit 
can  move  upon  such  and  give  them  tes- 
timonies there  and  then.  Others  in  the 
congregation  who  are  more  of  an  ag- 
nostic disposition,  and  do  not  know 
whether  things  are  true,  or  whether 
they  want  to  believe  them  or  not,  are 
there  for  curiosity,  and  they  cannot  ac- 
cept anything  unless  it  is  thoroughly 
proved  from  the  scriptures.  Others 
again,  when  anything  is  proved  by  the 
scriptures,  are  doubtful,  skeptical,  and 
of  an  unbelieving  kind — men  who  have 
delighted  in  sin,  and  their  consciences 
have  become  seared  as  with  a  hot 
iron,  so  that  they  are  not  sensitive 
and  conscious  to  the  truth.  The  Spirit 
cannot  work  in  them,  and  they  are  un- 
worthy perhaps  of  these  testimonies. 
There  may  be  those  even  who  have 
bloodguiltiness  upon  them,  listening  to 
the  words  of  the  teacher.  They  may  be 
satisfied  of  their  truth,  but  by  their 
own  conduct  they  have  cut  themselves 


off  from  accepting  or  taking  in,  with 
any  sense  of  benefit,  the  glorious  words 
of  eternal  truth  that  are  being  spoken 
to  them,  and  they  pass  by  them  like 
the  wind  on  the  prairie  or  the  barren 
heath,  "and  they  do  not  see  when  good 
cometh." 

The  Lord  has  told  us,  in  one  of  His 
revelations,  that  from  the  time  He  gave 
the  Gospel  to  the  human  family,  so  far 
as  they  heard  its  truths  and  rejected 
them,  they  came  under  condemnation. 
To  reject  the  truths  of  the  Gospel  is  a 
fearful  condition.  We,  who  have  been 
led  to  receive  and  obey,  have  the  great- 
est reason  in  the  world  to  be  thankful 
to  Him  who  has  given  us  the  under- 
standing that  when  we  heard  the  voice 
of  the  Good  Shepherd  we  received  it, 
and  have  tried  to  follow  it,  notwith- 
standing all  our  staggering  infirmities 
and  weaknesses,  follies  and  frailties, 
and  all  the  allurements  of  the  world 
that  have  been  around  us  to  draw  us 
away.  "We  have  reason  today  to  be 
exceedingly  thankful  to  the  Lord  that 
we  are  still  blessed  of  Him  and  pre- 
served in  His  favor. 

The  Lord,  on  one  occasion,  told  Moses 
what  His  work  was.  Moses  became 
inquisitive.  That  is  the  way  we  all  do 
when  we  are  brought  into  the  confi- 
dence of  those  who  know  more  than  we 
do.  It  is  natural  for  us  to  want  to  get 
further  knowledge,  if  we  have  the  spirit 
of  intelligence,  which  is  a  little  of  the 
glory  of  God.  We  hunger  and  thirst 
for  knowledge.  The  Savior  said, 
"Blessed  are  they  which  do  hunger  and 
thirst  after  righteousness;  for  they 
shall  be  filled."  So  we  may  take  cour- 
age if  we  can  only  keep  on  and  endure 
to  the  end.  When  Moses  first  enquired 
of  Him,  He  turned  Moses  off  and  told 
him  that  the  great  things  which  he  saw 
were  for  His  honor  and  glory.  To  Him 
they  were  all  numbered,  He  said;  but 
to  man  they  were  not  numbered.  Fin- 
ally, He  told  Moses  that  "His  work  and 
His  glory  was  to  bring  to  pass  the  im- 
mortality and  eternal  life  of  men." 

From  this  it  would  appear  that  before 
the  earth  was  created  and  father  Adam 
given  possession,  it  was  understood 
that  death  might  be  brought  into  the 
world  through  sin  and  transgression, 
and  that  there  was  a  provision  made 
for  that.  The  trial  came,  the  sentence 
of  death  was  passed,  and  men  began  to 
die.   Then  it  seemed  as  if  the  great  ob- 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ject  for  which  the  earth  had  been 
created  and  man  placed  upon  it  was 
frustrated.  The  object  had  been 
for  men  to  come  and  obtain 
tabernacles  that  they  might  ac- 
quire the  knowledge,  blessing  and 
power  of  God  in  the  flesh,  and  that  he 
might  be  able  to  exalt  and  glorify  these 
tabernacles.  When  death  came  into  the 
world,  the  body  and  spirit  were  separ- 
ated, and  this  great  object  seemed  to  be 
defeated  .  But  God  had  provided  for  this 
The  Lamb  of  God,  "slain  from  before 
the  foundation  of  the  world,"  came  in 
His  appointed  time  to  correct  and  re- 
store. How  often  the  Savior  told  the 
brethren,  when  they  were  together,  that 
the  whole  need  not  a  physician, but  they 
that  are  sick.  The  Son  of  Man  came  not 
to  call  the  righteous,  but  sinners,  to  re- 
pentence.  He  came  to  restore  that 
which  was  lost,  He  said.  Now,  that 
which  was  lost  was  the  tabernacle  that 
had  been  consigned  to  the  grave,  and 
He  came  to  bring  to  pass  the  resurrec- 
tion of  the  body.  That  seemed  to  be 
the  summing  up  of  the  saying  thaf'His 
work  and  His  glory  was  the  immortal- 
ity and  eternal  life  of  man"— to  restore 
man,  after  being  lost,  to  immortality 
and  eternal  life.  That  is  what  we 
are  after,  that  through  keeping  the 
commandments  of  God  we  may  be  ac- 
counted worthy  to  attain  unto  that  bet- 
ter resurrection,  even  the  first  resurrec- 
tion, to  immortality  and  eternal  life, 
and  an  abundant  entrance  into  the 
kingdom  of  God.  The  Apostles  seemed 
to  understand  this.  One  of  them  says 
that  life  and  immortality  are  brought 
to  light  through  the  Gospel.  He  seemed 
to  realize  that  life  and  immortality 
were  out  of  sight,  except  as  revealed 
and  made  manifest  through  the  Gospel. 
Thus,  the  great  restoration,  is  to  be 
brought  about. 

Looking  on  down  to  our  own  time,  we 
see  that  we  live  in  the  dispensation  of 
the  fulness  of  times,  in  which  the  Lord 
has  promised  to  gather  together  in  one 
all  things  which  are  in  Christ,  both 
which  are  in  heaven  and  which  are 
upon  earth.  This  is  according  to  scrip- 
ture, and  this  is  what  we  are  working 
at.  As  soon  as  the  Gospel  was  first 
preached  to  the  people,  they  felt  the 
spirit  of  gathering.  When  the  Presi- 
dency, from  the  Kirtland  Temple,  sent 
Elders  over  to  the  old  country  and  in- 
structed them  not  to  teach  gathering 


particularly  at  present,  why  the  peo- 
ple got  to  dreaming  about  gathering 
and  about  Zion.  It  could  not  be  kept 
from  them.  The  spirit  of  the  work  was 
upon  them.  Thus  the  spirit  of  gathering 
comes  upon  the  Saints  wherever  the 
Gospel  is  preached  to  them,  and  there 
arises  within  them  an  inclination  to 
want  to  leave  where  they  have  become 
strangers,  to  go  to  people  whose  faith 
is  like  their  own,  with  whom  they  are 
acquainted  in  the  Lord  and  have  fel- 
lowship together. 

In  speaking  concerning  the  people 
at  the  present  time,  there  is  one  im- 
portant feature  among  us  of  great  con- 
cern. That  is,  there  are  so  many  young 
men  and  young  women  who  are  of  mar- 
riageable age  and  who  ought  to  be  tak- 
ing seriously  into  consideration  the  im- 
portance of  uniting  themselves  together 
properly,  and  commencing  to  build  up 
families  and  to  make  homes  for  them- 
selves, thus  becoming  persons  of  value 
and  worth  among  the  Saints  in  the 
latter  days.  If  I  could  speak  into  the 
ears  of  a  host  of  young  men,  I  would  say 
to  each  one  of  them,  Look  around  you, 
my  young  brother,  find  a  young  lady 
who  is  waiting  for  you  to  come  and  of- 
fer to  take  her  to  wife — some  faithful 
girl,  who  is  dutiful  and  obedient  to  her 
parents  at  home,  who  has  been  taught 
to  work  and  to  relieve  her  mother,  and 
who  feels  a  spirit  of  ambition  and  en- 
ergy to  take  hold  of  life.  Do  not  wait 
till  you  have  got  enough  money  to  make 
a  home  and  to  store  it  with  all  the  com- 
forts of  life.  You  that  are  studying 
upon  that  point,  let  me  cite  to  you  a 
case  that  occurred  just  over  the  river 
here  a  little  while  ago.  A  couple  had 
got  some  land,  built  a  house,  had  it 
nicely  furnished,  cupboards  well 
stocked,  a  fine  cow  in  the  stable,  and 
everything  prepared  for  housekeeping. 
They  went  away  to  get  married,  and 
while  they  were  away  their  home  was 
broken  into  and  devastated,  so  that 
when  they  got  back  they  had  no  home 
to  go  to. 

I  want  to  tell  you,  if  you  have  no 
home,  ask  the  Lord  to  bless  you  and 
open  up  your  way  to  make  one.  Go  out 
and  get  a  piece  of  land  somewhere. 
There  is  plenty  of  land  to  be  got  in  dif- 
ferent places  around.  Young  men,  take 
this  matter  into  your  hearts,  and  con- 
sider how  you  will  feel  when  you  are 
70  or  80  years  of  age,  if  you  are  blessed 


PRESIDENT  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS. 


45 


to  live  that  long — and  you  would  feel 
terrible  if  you  had  a  witness  that  you 
would  not.  Think  how  you  want  to  be 
found  when  you  are  that  age.  You  want 
to  see  your  children  and  your  grand- 
children come  around  you,  to  bless  and 
comfort  you,  to  eat  and  drink  at  your 
table,  and  to  make  you  feel  that  you 
have  a  generation  planted  in  the  earth. 
Now,  it  is  going  to  take  some  years  to 
do  this;  but  if  you  will  get  a  good,  hon- 
est-hearted girl,  unite  with  her  and 
plight  your  troth  at  the  altar  of  the 
Lord,  in  His  holy  house,  and  let  Him 
seal  your  hearts  together,  and  then  go 
into  this  labor  of  life  and  make  a  home 
together,  you  will  begin  to  be  happy. 

I  remember,  as  if  it  were  only  last 
week,  when  I  married  and  hired  a 
room,  in  which  my  wife  and  I  began 
housekeeping.  Our  wants  were  but  few; 
our  means  very  limited;  but  we  had 
enough  to  eat,  to  be  comfortable  and 
happy  with  each  other.  I  remember 
the  first  time  I  bowed  down  to  pray  by 
that  fireside  that  I  had  hired  to  live 
by.  I  tell  you  I  felt  nearer  like  a  man 
than  I  had  ever  done  before  in  my  life. 
When  I  was  a  single  man,  traveling 
around  as  an  Elder,  I  had  either  to  find 
friends  or  to  make  them;  for  it  is  the 
business  of  the  Elder  to  make  friends 
if  they  do  not  find  them  ready  made.  I 
used  to  think  sometimes  that  mavbe 
I  was  in  somebody's  way;  and  when  I 
was  ill  or  afflicted,  certainly  I  was  de- 
pendent upon  somebody's  kindness,  and 
I  generally  found  it.  But  I  did  not  feel 
that  strange  way  in  my  own  hired  house 

Now,  my  good  young  brother,  to 
whom  I  am  talking  now,  you  want  to 
become  a  man  among  men;  you  want 
to  become  an  Elder  among  the  Elders 
of  Israel;  you  want  to  have  a  wife,  and 
a  home,  where  you  can  have  concen- 
trated all  the  comforts  and  happiness  of 
mortal  life,  and  where  you  can  have  the 
fulfillment  of  the  promise  that  where 
two  or  three  are  agreed  as  touching 
anything  it  should  be  granted  to  them. 
I  remember  how  we  used  to  pray  that 
the  Lord  would  grant  unto  us  that  we 
might  have  children  who  would  be  kind 
and  dutiful  and  obedient,  and  who 
would  love  Him  and  walk  in  His  ways. 
The  Lord  gave  us  such  children,  too. 
That  is  the  way  we  felt  when  we  called 
upon  the  Lord  and  asked  Him  for  every 
blessing  that  we  needed.   So  we  worked 


our  way  along  as  best  we  could.  The- 
Lord  helped  us  and  steadied  us,  until 
when  we  had  to  leave  Nauvoo  we  were 
able  to  leave  a  nice,  comfortable  brick 
house,  a  garden  and  lot  that  we  had 
bought  and  paid  for,  all  fenced  and 
cultivated. 

Then  again,  when  the  Prophet  Joseph 
was  killed,  the  question  was,  how  shall 
we  finish  the  temple?  I  recollect  well 
that.  Elders  were  sent  out  through 
the  Churches  to  gather  means  for  this 
purpose.  I  was  sent  to  Michigan.  The 
thing  was,  that  temple  had  to  be  fin- 
ished or  we  could  not  go  get  our  endow- 
ments and  learn  the  things  that  had 
been  kept  hid  from  before  the  founda- 
tions of  the  world.  What  was  to  be 
done?  When  we  got  back,  the  Presi- 
dency called  us  together  and  told  us 
the  thing  as  it  was.  I  recollect  dis- 
tinctly that  one  after  another  came  for- 
ward and  offered  everything  he  pos- 
sessed to  finish  that  temple,  and  I  was 
thankful  that  I  could  count  one  among 
that  number.  Of  course,  things  are  dif- 
ferent now  to  what  they  were  then. 
But  this  is  what  the  young  man  wants. 
If  he  has  the  holy  faith  of  the  Gospel, 
he  has  within  him  the  elements  of  a 
kindred  and  friends,  and  be  a 
man  among  men.  A  Saint  among 
Saints.  Oh!  what  a  blessing  it 
will  be  to  you  young  men 
when  you  get  to  be  old,  to  feel  that 
you  have  a  righteous  race  around  you, 
who  will  try  to  carry  out  your  will  and 
pleasure  after  you  are  gone.  You  must 
consider,  my  boy,  that  your  life  is  not 
all  of  today,  tomorrow,  this  year  or 
next  year.  You  are  but  making  a  start 
here  to  obtain  that  life  and  immortal- 
ity which  is  revealed  in  the  Gospel,  and 
to  stand  at  the  head  of  a  righteous 
race.  Father  Abraham  lived  to  be  a 
hundred  years  old  before  he  got  a  boy, 
and  see  what  the  Lord  has  made  of 
him!  His  name,  his  seed  and  his  gen- 
erations are  here,  and  his  blood  is  in 
you.  The  promises  that  were  made 
unto  him  and  to  his  son  Isaac,  and  then 
to  Jacob,  have  been  renewed  upon  your 
fathers  and  the  faithful  in  these  last 
days,  l^ise  up  and  take  hold  of  them. 
They  await  you. 

Speaking  of  my  own  case,  I  recollect 
well  how,  as  we  got  along  there  came 
a  time  when  we  needed  some  consecrat- 
ed oil.    I  took  a  bottle  of  oil  to  Presi- 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


dent  Young  in  Nauvoo,  and  asked  him 
to  consecrate  it.  He  did  so;  and  said 
he,  "The  next  time  you  want  a  bottle 
of  oii  consecrated,  do  it  yourself."  This 
is  the  way  a  man  develops.  He  comes 
to  be  a  father,  and  he  needs  to  prepare 
himself  to  assume  the  responsibilities 
of  the  position,  that  he  may  bless  his 
little  children  as  they  come  along,  and 
consecrate  the  oil  if  need  be.  I  remem- 
ber it  struck  me  all  over  when  the 
President  told  me  to  consecrate  the  oil. 
Could  I  do  it?  Would  the  Lord  hear 
me?  Well,  he  told  me  to  do  it,  and  I 
did  it.  So  step  by  step  we  go  aTong  in 
the  work  of  the  Lord. 

I  recollect  the  first  time  I  went  to 
stop  with  President  Young.  When  it 
came  to  prayer  time,  he  asked  Brother 
Franklin  to  pray.  I  was  but  a  boy,  and 
I  turned  to  him  and  said,  "President 
Young,  I  would  rather  you  pray;  you 
can  oray  better  than  I  can."  "Oh! 
well,"  said  he,  "you  can  pray  well 
enough;  you  try  it."  So  I  knelt  down 
and  prayed  the  best  I  could.  Thus  we 
have  to  prepare  ourselves  and  be  ready 
for  every  duty  as  we  go  along.  I  wish 
that  some  of  these  boys  who  are  among 
us,  scarcely  knowing  which  way  to  turn 
or  what  to  do,  would  just  brace  up  and 
do  what  is  right,  let  the  consequence 
follow;  and,  as  your  fathers  have  done, 
go  and  try  to  be  somebody  and  do 
something  that  shall  be  worthy  for  both 
you  and  your  children  to  remember. 

All  these  principles  are  important; 
and  if  the  young  folks  sensed  their  im- 
portance I  know  there  would  not  be 
so  much  carelessness  as  there  is.  You 
want  to  go  into  this  union  that  I  have 
been  speaking  of  with  a  determination 
of  purpose  to  bring  to  yourselves  the 
pleasures  and  exaltations  of  the  future 
life,  bring  back  the  pleasures  and  bless- 
ings of  the  former  life,  enter  into  the 
fulness  of  that  life  which  is  eternal, 
and  take  hold  on  the  things  of  God,  as 
if  you  meant  to  be  men  and  women  of 
God.  Remember  the  pathway  that  some 
of  your  fathers  and  mothers  have  had 
to  travel  to  get  where  they  are  today. 
Think  of  your  condition  as  it  is  today. 
The  chances  for  you  to  get  and  make 
homes  now,  why  there  is  no  comparison 
to  what  they  were  when  we  were  in 
the  States'  There  is/  no  possible  chance 
for  you  to  have  to  pass  through  the 


severe,  rugged  and  trying  scenes  that 
many  of  your  parents  have  had  to  pass 
through  to  git  to  this  place  and  make 
Utah  what  it  is  today.  Then  be  brave, 
and  daring,  and  strike  out  in  that 
which  is  manifestly  your  duty  to  do. 

The  first  thing  we  have  any  account 
of  our  Father  commanding  Adam  was 
to  multiply  and  replenish  and  subdue 
the  earth,  and  take  dominion.  And 
that  same  saying  is  just  as  applicable 
now  to  all  good  Later-day  Saints  in 
this  new  part  of  the  world  as  it  was 
when  it  was  first  given  to  father  Adam. 
I  really  do  wish  that  it  could  be  sensed 
and  acted  upon  more  generally.  We 
should  live  by  every  word  of  the  Lord 
end  every  principle  of  truth  that  is 
g'ven  to  us. 

I  feel  like  saying  a  few  words  about 
tithing — that    old,  threadbare  subject, 
that  you  have  not  heard  anything  new 
about  for  a  long  time.    I  tell  you  it 
looks  as  new  to  me  as  it  ever  did,  be- 
cause it  is  the  word  of  the  Lord;  and 
unless  we  can  take  it  in  and  make  it 
to  operate  upon  us,  and  we  operate  in 
it,  we  shall  never  become  the  people 
that  we  want  to  be.    The  Lord  has 
told  us  positively  that  if  we  do  not 
keep  *he  law  of  tithing  this  land  shall 
not  be  a  land  of  Zion  unto  us.    Is  not 
that  as  straight  and  as  strong  as  any- 
thing we  get?   On  the  other  hand,  He 
says  that  if  we  will  do  this  He  will 
make  it  to  be  a  land  of  Zion  unto  us. 
What  does  it  mean  to  be  a  tithepayer? 
It  means  that  of  all  which  the  Lord 
gives  to  us  in  this  life  we  should  de- 
vote one-tenth  to  Him.   We  should  re- 
cognize that  it  is  all  His  till  He  puts 
it  into  our  possession  as  stewards;  and 
when  He  does  this  we  should  remem- 
ber that  one-tenth  is  not  ours.  It  says 
expressly  in  the  scriptures  that  the 
tithing  is  the  Lord's,  and  therefore  we 
have  no  right  to  appropriate  it  to  our 
use  and  say  we  will  restore  fit  at  the 
end  of  the  year,  or  at  the  end  of  the 
job.    It  is  the  Lord's.    We  have  only 
right  to  take  that  which  He  gives  to 
us.    We  must  take  this  course  if  we 
want  to  get  the  real  virtue  and  benefit 
of  a  true  and  faithful  stewardship.  You 
want  to  so  arrange  it  that  the  food  you 
eat,  and  the  clothing  you  wear  come  to 
you    through    that    which    has  been 
tithed;  that  your  body  and  all  that  is 


PRESIDENT  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS. 


47 


in  it  axe  composed  of  that  which  is 
rightfully  given  you  of  the  Lord,  and 
that  you  have  paid  your  tithing  on — if 
it  is  proper  to  say  "paid  your  tithing." 
If  you  have  not  trespassed  and  used  the 
Lord's  tithing,  you  can  feel  that  you 
axe  doing  in  that  what  the  Lord  permits 
and  requires. 

It  is  just  so  with  everything  you  have 
around  you.  Young  man,  when  you 
get  married  and  secure  that  farm  that 
we  have  been  talking  about,  be  sure 
that  everything  has  been  tithed  before 
you  get  it;  or,  when  it  is  given  you 
with  the  principles  of  increase,  that  you 
tithe  it  faithfully  while  you  have  it  in 
hand,  in  order  that  you  may  plant 
yourselves  in  righteousness  on  this 
land,  so  that  wherever  you  locate  it 
shall  become  a  Zion  unto  you.  That  is 
the  way  I  look  at  the  matter  of  tithing. 
I  think  if  we  entertain  that  subject  cor- 
rectly, live  on  the  nine-tenths  of  what 
the  Lord  puts  in  our  possession,  and 
give  to  Him  that  which  is  His  (which 
is  never  ours),  we  shall  institute  the 
rule  and  law  that  the  Lord  wants  us 
to  do.  To  me  it  is  so  simple  and  plain 
that  a  farmer  would  not  have  to  stop 
to  quarrel  with  himself  to  know  whe- 
ther he  should  reckon  out  his  labor  and 
reckon  out  this  and  that  before  he  paid 
his  tithing.  If  we  as  a  people  would 
thus  deal  with  the  Lord  in  that  which 
is  our  stewardship,  how  often  we  have 
been  assured  by  the  authorities  of  the 
Church  that  that  would  give  enough 
revenue  to  meet  the  general  expenses 
of  the  Church,  and  we  would  not  have 
to  be  taxing  so  much  and  so  often  for 
other  offerings. 

For  my  part,  this  plan  of  salvation  is, 
as  the  Lord  has  pointed  out,  the  way 
we  have  to  accept;  for  He  says  if  any 
bring  an  offering  except  as  appointed 
by  the  Father,  it  will  not  be  accepted. 
"We  have  to  come  to  the  Father  by 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  and  by  His  prin- 
ciples and  instructions,  to  become  like 
Him.  He  wants  the  whole  human 
family  to  be  just  as  dutiful  and  obedi- 
ent as  He  was.  We  pray,  "Our  Father, 
which  art  in  heaven;  hallowed  be  thy 
name;  thy  kingdom  come,  thy  will  be 
done  on  earth,  as  it  is  in  heaven."  The 
Lord  says,  in  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  that  it  is  His  good  pleasure 
to  give  to  His  people  the  kingdom.  He 
told  the  early  Elders  to  be  of  good 


cheer;  "it  is  your  Father's  good  pleas- 
ure to  give  you  the  kingdom."  Now 
the  kingdom  of  God  has  come;  that 
is  to  say,  the  government,  the  priest- 
hood, the  ordinances  and  the  principles 
of  salvation  are  revealed  to  us  to  build 
up  the  Church  of  Christ,  as  we  may 
have  it  to  build  up  until  ithe  Savior 
shall  come,  or  until  the  prophets  shall 
come  and  reveal  to  us  more  than  we 
have  already  attained  to. 

I  recollect  very  distinctly  hearing  the 
Prophet  Joseph  say  that  the  kingdom 
had  come,  but  the  will  was  not  done  yet 
on  the^arth  as  it  was  done  in  heaven; 
and  in  order  that  the  sisters  especially 
might  understand  it,  he  said,  "You  sis- 
ters can  understand  it  by  this  little 
similitude.  When  you  scald  out  your 
milk  pans,  you  have  the  milk  pan." 
"Yes."  "But  it  is  not  full  of  milk?" 
"No,  of  course  not."  "Now,  here  the 
kingdom  has  come,  but  His  will  is  not 
done  on  earth  yet  as  it  is  done  in 
heaven.  The  milkpan  is  not  filled  up 
yet  in  doing  the  will  of  God."  We  are 
here  to  learn  and  to  toil  to  this  end; 
not  only  those  who  are  grey-haired  and 
bald-headed,  but  the  boys  and  girls. 
It  is  for  all  of  us  to  do  the  works  ot 
righteousness  and  faith,  that  the  will  of 
God  may  be  done  on  earth  as  it  is  done 
in  heaven,  so  mat  there  may  not  only 
be  a  milkpan,  but  a  pan  of  milk.  1 
heard  the  Prophet  make  use  of  this 
figure  in  the  grove  at  the  top  of  the 
hill,  just  in  front  of  where  the  temple 
stood,  in  Nauvoo. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  have  be- 
fore us  the  law  of  the  Lord.  We  are 
blessed  today  as  we  have  not  been 
blessed  in  a  great  many  years.  We  axe 
blessed  with  the  First  Presidency  fully 
organized.  We  are  blessed  with  the 
quorum  of  the  Apostles,  and  all  twelve 
of  them  are  with  us  today.  It  makes 
me  to  feel  very  joyful  and  thankful; 
for  as  long  as  I  have  been  in  the 
quorum— now  over  fifty  years— it  has 
been  but  a  very  few  times  that  we  have 
had  the  pleasure  of  coming  to  confer- 
ence with  a  full  quorum  of  the  Twelve 
present,  or  coming  into  our  council  and 
talking  over  the  things  of  God  with  a 
full  number.  The  other  councils  are  al- 
so generally  well  filled.  We  have  over 
a  hundred  quorums  of  Seventies!  The 
organization  is  complete,  and  the  Lord 
has  designed  to    bless  us  remarkably 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


with  all  the  facilities  to  keep  His  com- 
mandments, to  covenant  with  Him,  to 
go  into  His  holy  temples  and  learn  how 
to  become  saviors  for  our  dead,  and 
labor  to  bring  to  pass  this  restitution 
of  all  things  which  are  in  Christ  Jesus, 
both  which  are  in  heaven  and  which 
are  upon  earth. 

I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  the  Lord 
may  be  multiplied  upon  us  all,  through 
obedience  and  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  It  has  to  come  through  obedi- 
ence, that  our  faith  shall  increase.  We 
must  draw  near  to  the  Lord.  We  do  not 
ask  the  Lord  so  much  as  He  would  like 
us  to  ask.  He  has  said  emphatically 
that  to  him  that  asketh  it  shall  be 
given;  there  is  none  that  seeketh  that 
shall  not  find,  and  to  him  that  knock- 
eth  it  shall  be  opened.  Let  us  cleave 
unto  the  Lord  and  walk  in  His  ways; 
strive  to  serve  Him  in  all  things,  that 
we  may  be  able  to  increase  in  right- 
eousness; that  we  and  our  generations 
after  us  may  grow  up  in  fear  of  the 
Lord,  honor  Him  in  the  earth,  and  be 
counted  worthy  of  that  life  and  immor- 
tality which  are  being  brought  to  light 
in  the  Gospel,  and  which  the  Savior 
has  died  to  bring  to  pass  unto  us. 

We  ought  not  to  forget  that  this  is 
but  the  beginning  of  a  people  who  are 
to  have  such  a  position  that  by  and  by 
the  Lord  will  come  and  dwell  in  their 
midst  on  the  earth.  O  glorious  thought*. 
We  often  hear  it  talked  about  swords 
being  beaten  into  plowshares,  spears  in- 
to pruning  hooks,  the  cow  and  the  bear 
feeding  together,  the  lion  eating  straw 
like  the  ox,  etc.  All  these  things,  and  a 
multitude  more,  have  to  take  place, 
and  the  sooner  or  later  depends  upon 
our  faithfulness  and  our  diligence  in 
keeping  the  commandments  of  God  and 
helping  to  build  up  righteousness  in  the 
earth;  for  He  will  weed  out  and  remove 
the  wicked  to  make  room  for  the  right- 
eous as  fast  as  there  is  necessity  for  it. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  in  all  your  varied 
interests;  in  your  persons  with  health 
and  faith  to  overcome  your  infirmities, 
and  with  ability  to  live  and  become  full 
of  years  and  ladened  with  experiences 
of  the  goodness  of  God.  God  bless  you 
in  all  your  temporal  affairs;  and  you 
will  be  if  you  tithe  them  properly  and 
then  use  what  you  do  use  to  advance 
the  interests  of  His  work.    We  must 


never  lose  sight  of  the  fact  that  it  is 
our  great  business  to  send  the  Gospel  to 
the  people  of  the  earth.  That  is  why 
we  are  calling  upon  you  continually  for 
brethren  to  go  in  the  ministry.  We 
calculate  to  keep  calling.  The  demand 
is  increasing  everywhere.  Tou  fathers 
and  mothers,  brothers  and  sisters, 
please  hear  it,  and  take  notice,  and  be- 
ready  for  the  word  when  it  comes  for 
that  son,  that  brother,  that  father  to 
go  and  thrust  in  his  sickle  and  reap, 
for  the  harvest  is  great  and  the  work 
is  increasing  wonderfully. 

May  the  Lord  bless  and  prosper  every 
interest  of  Zion.  May  He  bless  the- 
Presidency,  to  be  full  of  wisdom,  revel- 
ation and  knowledge;  and  the  Twelve 
Apostles,  that  we  may  be  such  men  as 
we  ought  to  be,  to  take  the  counsels 
of  the  Lord  and  dispense  them  to  the 
people,  and  administer  salvation  every- 
where we  go.  I  pray  that  the  Lord 
will  increase  His  kindness  and  His  af- 
fection and  love  towards  us,  and  in- 
crease our  kindness  and  affection  and 
love  towards  you. 

You  that  have  weaknesses,  and  per- 
haps have  sinned,  do  not  take  it  into 
your  heart  that  the  Lord  wants  to  see 
you  afflicted  and  cut  off.  He  will  not 
that  any  shall  perish,  but  that  all  shall 
come  to  repentance.  Therefore,  draw 
near  to  the  Lord,  You  who  may  feel 
yourselves  the  farthest  from  Him,  find 
your  way  back  to  Him,  that  you  may 
walk  in  His  ways,  and  He  will  work  in 
you  by  His  Spirit  after  a  while,  and 
will  show  unto  you  His  good  pleasure, 
and  you  shall  know  of  His  favor,  His 
loving  kindness  and  forgiveness  of  sins. 
That  we  may  so  live  that  He  may  in- 
crease His  favor  and  loving  kindness 
toward  us,  I  humbly  desire  and  pray, 
with  all  the  rest  of  you,  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 
The  Temple  choir  sang  the  selection, 
A  beautiful  City, 
the  solo  being  rendered  by  Sister  Mag- 
gie Hull. 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  YOUNG. 

The  leading  object  of  tithing  is  to  educate  the 
Saints— The  necessity  of  being  guided  by  the 
Spirit  of  God. 

If  you  will  give  me  your  attention  I 
will  endeavor  to  speak  loud  enough  that 
all  the  congregation  may  hear  what  I 


LLDER  BRIG  HAM  YOUNG. 


4!:) 


have  to  say.  I  regret  very  much  that 
all  of  the  congregation  could  not  hear 
the  remarks  of  President  Richards,  and 
it  is  possible  that  there  are  many  here 
that  will  not  hear  what  I  have  to  say; 
but  he  has  touched  upon  many  valuable 
points  and  advanced  doctrine  that  is 
dear  to  the  heart  of  every  Latter-day 
Saint;  for  with  all  those  who  have  Zion 
in  their  hearts,  her  interests  are  fore- 
most on  all  occasions.  President  Rich- 
ards touched  upon  the  principle  of  tith- 
ing, and  he  used  these  words,  as  near  as 
I  remember,  in  reference  to  this  prin- 
ciple: "The  old  theme  of  tithing;  there 
is  nothing  new  in  relation  to  it  partic- 
ularly, but  it  is  one  of  the  most  import- 
ant principles  revealed  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  If  the  people  dwelling  upon 
this  land  pay  not  their  tithing,  it  shall 
not  be  a  land  of  Zion  unto  them."  It  is 
very  important,  it  seems  to  me  that  we 
should  pay  our  tithing,  for  if  this  be  not 
a  land  of  Zion  unto  us,  then  the  dis- 
pleasure of  God  will  rest  upon  us,  for 
it  was  so  predicted. 

There  are  many  new  things  connected 
with  this  principle  that  I  have  heard 
the  brethren  speak  of.  I  remember  on 
one  occasion,  and  I  have  mentioned  it 
from  this  stand  at  one  of  our  confer- 
ences, that  I  had  a  revelation  in  rela- 
tion to  this  principle.  The  Lord  revealed 
to  me,  that  I  needed  not  to  open  the 
book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and 
read  the  revelation  on  tithing,  but  to 
speak  on  that  principle  as  the  spirit 
should  direct,  and  I  obeyed  the  voice  of 
the  Spirit.  I  was  told  to  say  to  that 
congregation,  that  I  had  the  privilege 
of  addressing,  that  the  principle  of 
tithing  was  given  because  the  people 
had  rejected  the  higher  law;  and  this 
law  of  tithing  was  given  that  they 
might  be  in  training.  It  was  as  the 
first  primer  in  the  system  of  education 
to  the  child,  and  when  the  people  had 
adopted  that  which  had  been  given  on 
tithing,  when  they  had  absorbed  it  and 
become  thoroughly  conversant  with  it, 
and  were  acting  in  perfect  obedience 
thereto,  God  would  give  unto  them 
again  the  higher  law ;  but  if  a  man  who 
paid  his  tithing  did  it  grudgingly,  he 
was  blinding  his  eyes  to  his  own  inter- 
ests; if  he  laid  his  own  judgment  upon 
the  revelation  and  paid  according  to 
his  selfish  ideas,  and  was  very  strict 
with  the  bishop,  that  he  would  be  dealt 


with  in  precisely  the  same  way  by  the 
spirit  of  God.  Need  I  say  to  you  that 
whenever  the  spirit  of  God  begins  to 
hew  our  sides  off  to  straighten  them, 
there  wont  be  much  timber  left  when 
it  gets  through  with  mortal  man.  That 
is  my  opinion,  at  least,  and  God  has 
given  us  this  law  to  perfect  us.  He  has 
given  it  to  us  to  bear  and  meet  those  ex- 
penses mentioned  by  President  Rich- 
ards, but  He  has  also  given  it  to  us  for 
a  greater  and  wiser  purpose  than  this, 
if  possible.  We  are  in  training  for  the 
greater  law;  and  the  man  who  under- 
takes to  interprete  the  law  of  tithing  to 
suit  his  notions,  as  I  find  some  of  the 
brethren  doing,  they  will  be  misled  to 
that  extent  that  they  will  not  be  pre- 
pared for  the  higher  law  when  it  is 
revealed.  For  this  is  a  system  of  train- 
ing that  God  has  instituted  for  the  peo- 
ple. I  ask  this  congregation,  how  many 
of  us  are  acting  under  that  law  of  tith- 
ing with  the  free  and  full  spirit  of  God 
to  direct  us?  Every  man  that  gives  the 
Lord  the  advantage  is  on  the  safe  side. 
Not  like  a  sister  I  heard  express  her- 
self. She  had  a  horse  to  pay  for  tith- 
ing; she  sent  it  to  the  bishop,  and  she 
put  the  price  on  the  animal.  She  said: 
"This  horse  is  worth  fifty  dollars,  and 
I  want  that  credit  for  it."  The  horse 
was  worth  twenty-five,  no  more;  but 
she  wanted  a  credit  of  fifty  dollars  for 
it  or  to  have  it  sent  back.  That  spirit 
operating  upon  the  minds  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  will  becloud  their  minds 
to  the  greater  blessings  that  God  has 
in  store  for  us. 

We,  today,  are  in  training  by  and 
through  the  influences  of  the  spirit  of 
God.  As  our  President  said  yesterday, 
this  people  are  in  training  throughout 
the  length  and  breadth  of  the  land  for 
the  glorious  work — the  redemption  of 
Zion;  and  the  man  or  the  woman  who 
puts  his  or  her  price  upon  articles  they 
have  to  pay  in  for  tithing,  and  who  are 
glad  to  shovel  off  something  that  they 
have  no  use  for  in  the  tithing  depart- 
ment, God  will  reward  them  according 
to  their  just  deserts.  If  my  heart  is 
right,  every  time  that  I  pay  tithing,  I 
pay  it  with  this  view  and  this  under- 
standing before  God: — I  am  preparing 
my  mind  and  all  that  is  in  me  that 
when  the  higher  law  shall  come,  I  may 
be  prepared  to  receive  it,  and  may  be 
numbered  among  those  who  will  return 


.->() 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  Jackson  County  and  go  into  the 
order  which  God  instituted  to  preserve 
His  people.  This  revelation  must  be 
looked  upon  in  this  light:  We  are  in  a 
school  of  training  and  God  designs  that 
this  people  should  be  educated,  that 
they  may  be  prepared  to  redeem  the 
earth  and  make  it  like  the  garden  of 
Eden.  This  is  an  important  part  of  the 
great  school  which  the  Latter-day 
Saints  are  in  today  and  have  been  in 
ever  since  I  can  remember,  and  before, 
too.  Think  of  it,  Latter-day  Saints, 
that  when  you  are  paying  your  tithing 
you  are  making  your  minds  liberal, 
spreading  out,  broadening  your  ideas, 
that  when  the  word  comes,  you  can  say, 
I  am  on  the  altar  in  the  Church  and 
kingdom  of  God  with  everything  that  I 
possess,  with  all  that  the  Lord  has 
given  me,"  that  you  may  inherit  ever- 
lasting life  in  the  celestial  kingdom  of 
our  God.  If  we  give  all,  we  shall  in- 
herit all.  It  is  a  principle  which  God 
has  laid  down,  and  I  exhort  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  to  be  very  careful  in  paying 
their  tithing,  because  this  is  the  step- 
ping stone  to  the  greater  law. 

The  principle  of  revelation  to  me  is 
the  most  important  principle  we  have, 
in  one  respect.  If  men  were  not  dual 
creatures,  and  could  devise  means  as 
to  how  to  proceed  and  act  with  cer- 
tainty, we  might  say  revelation  was 
unnecessary.  But  there  is  no  act  of 
man,  perhaps,  that  is  not  prompted  by 
the  thought  that  enters  the  brain.  If 
that  be  the  case,  and  man  is  dual,  how 
necessary  that  we  should  be  directed 
by  the  spirit  of  God,  which  He  sends  to 
lead  men  in  the  ways  of  life  everlast- 
ing! How  necessary  it  is  to  receive  it 
and  to  keep  it  that  the  very  thoughts  of 
our  minds  may  be  directed  by  Him 
above,  who  gives  life  eternal.  The 
principle  of  revelation  to  every  man 
and  to  every  woman  is  the  safeguard 
that  will  keep  them  from  becoming  en- 
tangled in  the  meshes  of  the  sinful. 

A  passage  comes  to  my  mind  that  is 
found  in  Sec.  84  of  the  Doc.  and  Cov. — 
A  revelation  given  through  Joseph 
Smith  the  prophet,  at  Kirtland,  Geauga 
County,  Ohio,  the  22nd  and  23rd  of  Sep- 
tember, 1832, — four  years  before  I  was 
born  in  that  place: 

"And  I  now    give    unto    you  a  com- 


mandment to  beware  concerning  your- 
selves,to  give  diligent  heed  to  the  words 
of  eternal  life: 

"For  you  shall  live  by  every  word 
that  proceedeth  forth  from  the  mouth 
of  God. 

"For  the  word  of  the  Lord  is  truth, 
and  whatsoever  is  truth  is  light,  and 
whatsoever  is  light  is  spirit,  even  the 
spirit  of  Jesus  Christ; 

"And  the  spirit  giveth  light  unto 
every  man  that  cometh  into  the  world; 
and  the  spirit  enlighteneth  every  man 
through  the  world,  that  hearkeneth  to 
the  voice  of  the  spirit." 

This  is  the  spirit  that  Latter-day 
Saints  are  taught  to  cultivate.  That 
spirit  is  given;  it  is  yours;  it  is  in 
the  possession  of  every  human  being 
that  comes  into  the  world,  so  far  as  I 
know.  I  see  no  exceptions.  It  is  the 
province,  and  duty  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  to  cultivate  that  spirit  until  it 
becomes  as  a  living  fire  within  them. 
There  is  no  error,  though  it  may  be 
couched  in  the  smoothest  and  most 
beautiful  language  that  can  ever  en- 
tangle the  spirits  of  those  who  walk  in 
the  way  of  life.  Therein  is  safety.  The 
brightest  intellects,  the  strongest 
minds,  the  most  powerful  men,  are 
swayed  like  children  by  the  spirits  of 
the  air,  by  the  spirits  from  beneath,  if 
they  are  not  guarded  and  protected 
and  strengthened  by  the  spirit  of  God. 
That  spirit  is  given  to  them  to  culti- 
vate it  to  the  extent  that  it  is  an  armor 
impregnable  to  all  of  the  various  sects 
and  parties  that  are  trying  to  drag  our 
people  down  to  destruction. 

"And  everyone  that  hearkeneth  to  the 
voice  of  the  spirit  cometh  unto  God, 
even  the  Father; 

"And  the  Father  teacheth  him  of  the 
covenant  which  he  has  renewed  and 
confirmed  upon  you,  which  is  confirmed 
upon  you  for  your  sakes,  and  not  for 
your  sakes  only,  but  for  the  sake  of  the 
whole  world." 

Hear  it  Latter-day  Saints — you  are 
cultivating  the  spirit  for  the  whole 
world.  Not  for  you  and  your  posterity, 
but  for  all  of  the  children  of  men  whom 
God  has  placed  here.  You  have  come 
out  of  the  world,  not  to  bring  Babylon 
with  you.  But  people  have  come  here 
from  Babylon,  and  are  among  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  with  their  sins  and  filth, 
and  we  gather  it  up  by  the  handfulls, 


PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 


51 


sometimes  to  the  extinction  of  that 
power  that  God  has  placed  in  every 
man. 

"And  the  whole  world  liveth  in  sin, 
and  groaneth  under  darkness  and  un- 
der the  bondage  of  sin. 

Who  has  said  it?  Jesus  Christ  said 
it  to  His  servant  the  prophet. 

"And  by  this  ye  may  know  they  are 
under  the  bondage  of  sin  because  they 
come  not  unto  me. 

"For  whoso  cometh  not  unto  me  is 
under  the  bondage  of  sin. 
■    "And  whoso  receiveth  not  my  voice  is 
not  acquainted  with  my  voice   and  is 
not  of  me; 

"And  by  this  you  may  know  the 
righteous  from  the  wicked,  and  that  the 
whole  world  groaneth  under  sin  and 
darkness  even  now." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  here  is  a 
test  for  you: 

By  these  things  that  I  have  read  you 
may  know  the  righteous  from  the 
wicked.  Who  is  it  that  will  receive  that 
spirit  and  cultivate  it?  Who  is  it  that 
listens  to  the  voice  of  the  men  whom 
God  has  placed  to  redeem  the  world  and 
guide  in  the  redemption  of  the  human 
family?  Who  are  these  men?  and 
what  do  they  say  to  the  people?  What 
have  they  said  to  the  people  during  this 
conference?  What  has  the  President 
and  his  fellow-laborers  said  at  this  con- 
ference? They  have  delivered  unto  you 
the  words  of  life  and  salvation,  and  as 
true  as  God  lives,  according  to  the 
spirit  that  is  in  me,  we  will  be  judged 
by  the  words  of  these  men  in  the  time 
to  come.  They  have  given  unto  you  the 
words  of  everlasting  life.  They  have 
given  unto  you  those  things  that  God 
has  given  unto  them,  to  purify  you. 

I  testify  to  you  that  the  Church  is 
growing;  that  the  Gospel  is  here  and 
men  respect  it  and  women  respect  it. 
But  how  many  more  might  re- 
spect this  glad  message  that  God 
has  sent  us  if  they  would  but 
seek  Him  and  be  earnest  and 
faithful  and  prayerful  and  humble  and 
keep  the  spirit  of  light  within  them! 

God  bless  you  and  peace  be  unto  you 
in  all  of  your  homes  in  all  of  the  set- 
tlements of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
Be  faithful  that  we  may  have  victory, 
and  sing  the  song  of  the  victorious  in 
the  day  that  is  not  far  distant,  which 
I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen 


PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 


How  to  overcome  temptation— The  H  Iv^Dlrita,. 
unerring  guide.  3  v 

I  have  been  very  much  pleased  with 
what  has  been  said  this  morning,  and 
also  during  the  whole  of  this  confer 
ence.    We  certainly  have  had  a  very 
excellent  time. 

It  struck  me  while  Brother  Young 
was  addressing  us  that  there  were  two 
very  strong  temptations  that  trouble 
us  from  time  to  time,  and  which  some- 
times prevent  the  spirit  of  light  from 
giving  us  the  information  absolutely 
necessary  for  our  prosperity.  One  is, 
what  will  people  say  if  I  do  so  and  so? 
If  I  do  these  things  that  are  now  re- 
quired of  me,  what  will  be  said  of  me? 
I  think  that  every  one,  at  least  most 
of  my  brethern  and  sisters  who  are  now 
before  me,  will  understand  what  I 
mean,  from  the  experiences  they  have 
had.  Such  a  consideration  has  affected 
almost  every  one.  I  know  that  it  was 
the  case  with  me,  when  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel  were  announced  and  1 
took  them  into  contemplation.  It  came 
to  my  mind;  "what  will  people  say  if 
I  receive  these  doctrines,  and  it  is 
known  that  I  have  become  what  is 
called  a  "Mormon?"  When  such  a 
temptation  as  this  comes  before  us  it 
should  be  laid  aside,  and  not  permitted 
to  influence  us. 

Another  temptation  is,  How  much 
money  shall  I  give?  That  is  a  very 
strong  temptation  to  most  of  us,  I  pre- 
sume. Speaking  of  tithing  as  Brother 
Brigham  has,  how  much  of  this  tithing 
shall  I  give?  Cannot  I  reserve  a  por- 
tion to  myself?  The  Lord  is  very  rich 
and  I  doubt  if  He  will  be  troubled  at 
all  if  I  withhold  a  little  for  myself;  and 
so  a  little  to  oneself  is  withheld.  But 
that  very  little  that  is  reserved  will 
trouble  that  man,  if  his  conscience  is 
like  the  consciences  of  most  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  It  will  trouble  him  more 
or  less  in  the  day  time,  and  also  when 
he  thinks  of  it  at  night.  He  does  not 
have  that  happiness  that  it  is  his  priv- 
ilege to  enjoy— it  goes  from  him.  One 
of  the  best  things  to  do  under  such  a 
temptation  as  that  is  to  give,  so  as  to 
be  sure,  a  trifle  more  than  is  required; 
and  to  think  that  you  have  it  wholly 
within  yourself  to  do  so.  If  you  do  this 
the  temptation  is  overcome,  you  have 


52 


GEbERAL  CONFERENCE. 


been  successful  in  contending  with  it; 
and  you  are  better  prepared  to  battle 
with  the  next  allurement  successfully, 
though  it  be  stronger  than  the  first. 
And  if  you  do  not  then,  at  some  future 
time  you  will  thank  the  Lord. 

There  is  a  way  by  which  persons  can 
keep  their  consciences  clear  before  God 
and  man,  and  that  is  to  preserve  within 
them  the  spirit  of  God,  which  is  the 
spirit  of  revelation  to  every  man  and 
woman.  It  will  reveal  to  them,  even 
in  the  simplest  of  matters,  what  they 
shall  do,  by  making  suggestions  to 
them.  We  should  try  to  learn  the  na- 
ture of  this  spirit,  that  we  may  under- 
stand its  suggestions,  and  then  we  will 
always  be  able  to  do  right.  This  is  the 
grand  privilege  of  every  Latter-day 
Saint.  We  know  that  it  is  our  right 
to  have  the  manifestations  of  the  spirit 
every  day  of  our  lives.  Persons  come 
to  me  very  anxious  to  receive  counsel 
upon  some  subject  or  other.  They  need 
nolt  come  to  me  always  (under  some 
circumstances,  of  course,  it  would  be 
highly  proper),  for  the  spirit  is  within 
them  to  bring  about  good  and  to  ac- 
complish the  purposes  of  God.  The 
spirit  is  in  every  man  and  every  woman 
so  that  they  need  not  walk  in  the  dark- 
ness at  all,  and  it  is  not  always  neces- 
sary for  them  to  come  to  the  President 
of  the  Church,  or  to  the  Twelve,  or  to 
the  Elders  of  Israel,  to  get  counsel; 
they  have  it  within  them;  there  is  a 
friend  that  knows  just  exactly  what  to 
say  to  them.  From  the  time  we  re- 
ceive the  Gospel,  go  down  into  the  wa- 
ters of  baptism  and  have  hands  laid 
upon  us  afterwards  for  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  we  have  a  friend,  if  we 
do  not  drive  it  from  us  by  doing  wrong. 
That  friend  is  the  Holy  Spirit,  the  Holy 
Ghost,  which  partakes  of  the  things  of 
God  and  shows  them  unto  us.  This  is 
a  grand  means  that  the  Lord  has  pro- 
vided for  us,  that  we  may  know  the 
light,  and  not  be  groveling  continually 
in  the  dark. 

I  wanted  to  say  these  few  words,  as 
they  were  suggested  to  me  while 
Brother  Young  was  addressing 
us.  God  bless  you,  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  my  friends  who  are 
here,  who  have  honest  hearts. 
God  bless  you  and  crown  you  with  His 
Holy  Spirit,  that  you  may  know  that 
the  time  has  come  when  the  Lord  has 


called  a  people  to  prepare  for  the  com- 
ing of  the  Son  of  God,  who  shall  appear 
and  be  in  our  midst,  and  teach  us  the 
mysteries  of  the  kingdom. 

God  bless  you  and  preserve  you  all 
in  the  holy  path  of  righteousness,  ex- 
altation and  glory,  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem, 

"Let  the  Mountains  Shout  for  Joy." 

Benediction  by  Elder  Joseph  W.  Mc- 
Murrin. 


OVERFLOW  MEETING. 
2  p.  m.. 

An  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  the 
Assembly  Hall,  at  which  Elder  John 
W.  Taylor,  of  the  quorum  of  the  Apos- 
tles, presided. 

The  Temple  choir  and  congregation 
sang : 

Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  salva- 
tion, 

No  longer  as  strangers  on  earth  need 
we  roam. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  F.  A. 
Hammond  of  San  Juan  Stake. 
The  choir  sang  the  hymn: 

I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives. 
What  comfort  this  sweet  sentence  gives. 

ELDER  JONATHAN  G.  KIMBALL. 

I  have  been  very  much  interested 
during  this  semi-annual  conference. 
Personally,  I  cannot  remember  the  time 
when  I  have  been  more  pleased  with 
the  discourses.  There  is  one  grand 
feature  connected  with  them  that  has 
forced  itself  upon  my  mind.  It  is. 
"Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and 
His  righteousness  and  all  other  things 
shall  be  added  unto  you."  I  remember 
instances  when  temporal  matters 
seemed  to  be  foremost.  I  comprehend 
as  well  as  others  how  necessary  it  is 
that  we  should  have  temporal  things 
brought  to  our  attention.  Sometimes  I 
have  felt  a  little  in  doubt  which  should 
be  the  most  prominent  at  present,  our 
temporal  salvation,  or  our  spiritual  sal- 
vation, and  I  have  been  unable  to  say 
which  should  be  first.  Some  of  our  peo- 
ple are  in  a  regretable  condition,  and 
much  has  been  said  upon  this  question 
and  it  has  seemed  quite  a  hobby  with 
me  as  I  have  passed  through  that  ex- 
perience, but  I  will  not  take  time  to  say 
anything  upon  that  feature.  Our  people 
should  follow  the  instructions  that  have 
been  given  them  and  keep  out  of  debt. 


ELDER  JONATHAN  G.  KIMBALL. 


53 


I  call  to  mind  a  saying-  of  the  Lord:  "I 
am  bound  when  ye  do  what  I  say,  but 
when  ye  do  not  what  I  say,  then  ye 
have  no  promise."  He  says  to  the 
young  people:  "He  that  seeketh  me 
early  shall  find  me,  and  he  shall  not  be 
forsaken."  The  Lord  has  made  great 
and  wonderful  promises  to  this  people. 

I  desire  to  call  your  attention  to  an 
incident  that  occurred  when  I  was  la 
boring  in  the  Southern  States,  in  1884. 
I  went  there  in  1883.  The  year  1884  was  a 
time  of  a  sad  experience  in  that  mis- 
sion. It  was  then  that  some  of  our  El- 
ders lost  their  lives  by  mob  violence.  It 
seemed  that  there  was  bitterness  on  all 
hands.  We  had  but  few  friends.  I  was 
at  the  office  in  Chattanooga  under  El- 
der Roberts  at  the  time.  I  picked  up  a 
Chattanooga  Times  one  morning,  and  I 
was  very  much  delighted  to  see  in 
print  these  words,  speaking  of  Elder 
John  Morgan.  It  said,  "To  shake  his 
hand  was  to  be  his  friend."  I  have 
never  forgotten  it.  When  you  shook 
John  Morgan's  hand  and  he  looked  into 
your  face  you  always  knew  that  you 
were  his  friend.  John  Morgan  under- 
stood that  principle.  Some  of  our  peo- 
ple are  becoming  careless  in  the  shak- 
ing of  hands.  I  have  shaken  hands  with 
some  men,  when  I  would  just  as  soon 
have  put  my  hand  into  a  bucket  of  ice 
water  as  to  shake  hands  with  them. 
They  may  have  been  friendly,  but  I 
have  no  means  of  telling.  Great  ser- 
mons have  been  preached  in  this  Church 
by  the  simple  shaking  of  hands;  and 
you  who  have  been  in  holy  places;  you 
who  have  been  in  the  holy  temple,  know 
what  it  means  to  shake  hands. 

I  witnessed  a  play  in  the  Theater 
here,  and  was  very  much  taken  up  with 
it— Julius  Caeser — and  when  I  saw  the 
mimic  representatives  of  great  Romans 
walk  up  and  shake  hands,  I  presume 
every  one  in  that  large  Theater  was  im- 
pressed with  the  idea  that  it  meant 
friendship.  But  we  have  been  too  much 
carried  away  with  temporal  matters. 
When  our  Elders  come  home— we  have 
probably  eight  hundred  who  return 
every  year— they  ask  me  what  is  the 
matter  with  the  people?  They  discover 
it  whenever  they  shake  hands  with  you. 
When  you  meet  the  Elders  that  come 
home  and  shake  hands  with  them,  they 
will  hardly  let  go  of  your  hand,  they 
are  so  friendly,  and  you  can  feel  it  in 


your  hearts  that  they  love  you.  They 
do  it  from  the  bottom  of  their  hearts. 
You,  who  have  lost  children  know  when 
a  person  comes  up  to  you  and  sym- 
pathizes with  you  on  account  of  your 
loss,  taking  you  by  the  hand  and  look- 
ing you  in  the  face,  notwithstanding 
they  do  not  utter  a  word,  you  feel  that 
friendship,  that  sympathy  that  pierces 
to  the  innermost  recesses  of  your  hearts. 
Those  who  have  lost  wives,  if  one  who 
has  passed  through  that  terrible  ex- 
perience comes  to  sympathize  with  an- 
other man  who  has  lost  his  wife,  in 
shaking  his  hand  there  is  a  feeling  of 
friendship  and  sympathy  that  cannot 
be  expressed  in  words. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  can  afford  to 
be  sympathetic;  we  can  afford  of  all 
people  on  the  earth  to  be  filled  with 
sympathy  and  compassion.    I  am  not 
concerned  very  much  about  what  other 
religionists  do.   We  have  the  Gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  it  has  with- 
stood every  test.   We  have  sent  out  our 
young  Elders  without  experience,  and  it 
is  marvelous,  it  is  wonderful,  it  is  one 
of  the  great  testimonies    to    me  how 
these  young  men  can  meet  the  men  of 
the  world  as  they  do,  with  so  little  ex- 
perience.   It  is  a  very  strong  evidence 
that  we  have  the  truth,  that  we  have 
the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I 
am  not  concerned  about  the  Christian 
Scientists;  I  have  little  to  say  against 
them.   If  they  do  any  good  that  is  theh 
business,  but  I  wish  to  say  that  there 
will  be  inroads  made  among  this  people. 
I  call  to  mind  now  a  circumstance  of  a 
Josephite  preacher  going  into  the  city 
of  Logan,  among  the  intelligent  people 
there,  and  going  from  house  to  house. 
It  was  discovered  that  our  people  were 
unable  to  meet  him.    He  went  to  a 
Bishop's  place,  and  he  spoke  unkindly 
to  him,  and  a  young  Elder  who  had 
just  returned  from    the    East  said: 
"Father,  I  am  unwilling  to  stand  by  and 
hear  that  man  talk  as  he  is  talking,  and 
I  will  meet  him  in  public  debate,"  and 
he  vaniFhed,  and  that  man  did  not  wish 
to  see  him  any  more.    We  must  be  in- 
formed.   No  church  can  find  a  more 
successful     way      of      making  in- 
roads     among      our      people  than 
by    getting     them     to     extend  the 
hand      of      sympathy,      love,  and 
affection  in  their  trials  and  tribulations. 
We,  who  hold  the  priesthood,  Elders, 


5* 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Seventies,  Teachers,  and  Deacons — 
ought  to  perform  our  duties;  our  hearts 
are  noit  always  as  they  should  be;  we  do 
not  always  exhibit  the  sympathy,  lov<» 
and  affection  that  we  ought.  I  am 
sorry  to  say  that  some  of  my  acquaint- 
ances, siome  who  are  near  and  dear  to 
me,  have  been  won  from  our  Church 
through  love  and  sympathy. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  this  to 
say  in  conclusion:  Even  if  you  are  in 
a  hurry,  stop  and  shake  hands  before 
going  on,  but  do  it  right ;  have  the  spirit 
of  God  within  you,  and  when  you  greet 
them  say,  "God  bless  you."  I  know  a 
good  old  sister,  who  is  working  for  her 
living;  she  would  not  let  the  Church 
support  her,  she  is  too  proud.  She  i» 
over  70  years  old.  She  said  to  me  that 
when  an  Apostle  took  her  by  the  hand 
and  said  "God  bless  you"  it  was  worth 
more  to  her  than  all  the  money  they 
could  give  her.  I  remember  Apostle 
Erastus  Snow,  and  I  will  never  forget 
him  as  long  as  I  live  on  the  earth.  He 
stopped  long  enough  to  take  me  by 
the  hand  as  a  boy,  after  my  father  was 
dead,  and  said  "God  bless  you."  There 
are  others  that  have  done  so,  and  they 
stand  foremost  in  my  mind,  and  I  re- 
member and  esteem  every  one  of  them. 
"We  should  learn  to  love  and  honor  each 
other.  We  should  have  the  spirit  of 
God  burning  within  our  hearts.  You 
can  make  more  converts  in  this  way 
than  by  any  other  means.  God  bless 
you.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang: 
"Who  are  these  arrayed  in  white?" 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 
My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  also  re- 
joice in  the  spirit  of  this  conference; 
and  I  can  say  that  it  has  been  very 
enjoyable  to  me.  It  is  the  first  general 
conference  that  I  have  had  the  privilege 
of  attending  for  three  years.  Since  that 
time  it  has  been  my  privilege  to  labor 
in  foreign  lands,  among  strange  people; 
but  I  rejoice  all  the  more  in  coming 
back  into  the  union  of  the  Church,  as- 
sociating with  the  Saints,  and  mingling 
my  testimony  with  those  of  my  breth- 
ern  to  the  truth  of  the  work  in  which 
we  are  engaged.  I  rejoice  in  the  prog- 
ress of  the  work  of  God.  I  rejoice  in 
the  great  advancement  made  by  the 
Latter-ady  Saints.   While  there  is  plen- 


ty of  room  for  improvement,  yet  we  dis- 
cover a  great  deal  of  progress  being 
made  among  those  who  are  really  in 
earnest  and  are  keeping  the  command- 
ments of  God — these  are  marching  on 
toward  the  goal  we  all  desire  to  reach. 

What  does  preaching  amount  to  if  it 
is  not  put  into  practice  by  the  Latter- 
day  Saints;  if  we  do  not  profit  by  the 
instructions  which  we  receive?  Every 
one  who  has  heard  the  voices  of  the 
prophets  of  God,  the  holy  apostles,  and 
the  instructions  they  have  given  during 
this  conference,  and  has  not  determined 
within  himself  to  benefit  by  them,  will 
receive  no  good  from  them.  They  will 
simply  be  as  a  sounding  brass  and  as 
a  tinkling  cymbal,  so  far  as  any  benefit 
being  derived  from  them  is  concerned. 
But  if  we  will  put  into  practice  the 
principles  we  have  been  taught,  and 
if  we  will  yield  obedience  to  the  coun- 
sels that  have  been  given,  and  live  in 
accordance  with  the  spirit  that  has 
been  made  manifest  in  this  conference, 
then  we  will  go  onward  and  progress  in 
the  knowledge  of  God,  and  will  prepare 
ourselves  for  the  coming  of  our  Savior. 

I  was  particularly  impressed  with  the, 
remarks  of  the  brethren  in  regard  to 
the  treatment  that  should  be  extended 
to  those  who  are  converted,  and  immi- 
grate to  Zion.  It  has  been  observed  by 
many,  and  I  have  also  observed  it,  that 
numbers  of  our  new  converts  do  not  re- 
ceive the  kind  reception  they  should. 
They  come  from  foreign  lands  where 
they  have  received  the  Gospel,  and  the 
first  love  of  the  Gospel  is  burning  with- 
in their  hearts;  they  have  been  filled 
with  a  greaJt  warmth  of  love  towards 
our  brethren  and  sisters,  and  in  their 
far  distant  homes  the  spirit  of  gather- 
ing has  come  upon  them  and  they  have 
resolved  to  come  to  the  land  of  Zion. 
They  have  been  filled  with  a  desire  to 
cast  their  lot  with  the  people  of  God, 
that  they  might  learn  more  of  His 
ways;  that  they  might  be  taught  the 
will  of  the  Lord  and  learn  to  do  it  bet- 
ter, and  that  they  might  mingle  with 
Latter-day  Saints — men  and  women  of 
God.  Those  have  been  their  desires. 
They  have  sold  out  their  little  posses- 
sions in  the  foreign  lands,  have  for- 
saken their  native  countries,  bid  adieu 
to  the  prospects  of  their  youth,  and 
have  severed  their  communications 
with  them  in  order  that  they  might 


ELDER  RULON  S.  HELLS. 


55 


mingle  with  us.  What  has  been  the  re- 
ception of  many  that  have  come  up  un- 
to the  land  of  Zion.?  Instead  of  re- 
ceiving that  hearty  and  warm  shake  of 
the  hand  that  Brother  Kimball  has  been 
speaking  of,  they  have  not  in  many  in- 
stances even  received  one  of  those  cold 
greetings  that  have  been  referred  to. 
They  have  felt  a  lack  of  that  warmth 
of  feeling  that  should  be  extended  to 
them,  and  they  have  thought  that  lovfc 
was  not  abounding  in  our  midst.  I 
think  it  is  time  the  attention  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  was  called  to  their 
indifference  toward  each  other — they 
should  learn  to  be  brethren  and  sisters 
in  very  deed.  I  endorse  the  remarks  of 
Brother  Kimball  in  regard  to  this  mat- 
ter. I  think  when  our  Saints  come 
here  attention  should  be  paid  to  them. 
I  was  pleased  to  hear  the  remarks  of 
President  Snow  when  he  stated  that 
some  one  would  be  appointed  to  look 
after  these  matters.  It  should  be  done 
in  every  ward  in  Zion,  that  when  they 
come  they  may  find  that  they  are  cared 
for.  I  am  aware  that  a  great  many  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  have  felt  the  ne- 
cessity for  this,  and  I  am  aware,  too, 
that  a  great  deal  is  being  done;  but  I 
feel  in  my  heart  that  a  great  deal  more 
could  be  done  to  make  the  reception  we 
extend  to  our  Saints  more  cheerful  and 
warm.  It  is  not  always  necessary  to 
extend  to  them  financial  aid,  but  they 
should  be  made  to  feel  that  they  are 
among  their  friends,  their  brethren  and 
sisters.  A  little  kindness,  a  little  con- 
sideration, a  simple  visit,  or  an  invita- 
tion, will  often  be  the  means  of  mak- 
ing them  happy.  It  is  the  experience 
of  missionaries  in  the  field  to  find  many 
of  those  who  have  come  here  to  Zion, 
who  have  become  dissatisfied  through 
a  lack  of  this  warmth  and  affection, 
writing  back  to  their  friends  concern- 
ing it;  and  in  some  cases  the  letters 
they  write  are  too  true.  Of  course 
they  have  happened  to  fall 
amongst  those  who  are  not 
abounding  in  that  love  and  re- 
gard they  should  have  for  one  another. 
When  our  Savior  was  upon  the  earth 
He  preached  upon  this  subject,  as  also 
did  His  apostles  after  Him.  They  ex 
horted  the  Saints  then  to  love  one  on- 
other,  to  be  kind  to  one  another  and  to 
be  full  of  consideration  one  for  the 
other.    The  first  great  commandment 


was  that  "we  should  love  the  Lord  with 
all  our  might,  mind,  and  strength,"  and 
the  second,  like  unto  it,  was  that  "we 
should  love  our  neighbor  as  ourself.' 
If  that  love  abounds  in  the  hearts  of  the 
people,  it  will  make  itself  manifest 
among  them.  We  read  in  the  scriptures 
that  "out  of  the  abundance  of  the  heart 
the  mouth  speaketh."  We  should  give 
expression  to  the  kind  feelings  that  are 
within  us,  and  should  cultivate  the 
spirit  of  the  Gospel  towards  one  an- 
other. We  should  learn  to  profit  by 
these  principes  that  have  been  re- 
vealed to  us,  for  they  are  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation.  If  we  simply  ac- 
cept them  with  our  minds,  but  do  not 
practice  them  in  our  lives,  they  will  not 
save  us.  If  we  will  practice  them, 
they  will  purify  our  hearts  and  bring 
us  to  a  knowledge  of  God,  "whom  to 
know  is  life  eternal." 

I  bear  my  testimony  unto  you  my 
brethren  and  sisters  that  I  do  know 
that  this  Gospel  is  the  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus,  that  it  has  been  restored 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  for 
the  salvation  of  the  human  family.  1 
know  that  this  is  the  truth  by  the  re- 
velations of  God  to  me  through  His 
Holy  Spirit;  and  I  will  say  to  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  as  was  said  to  the  for- 
mer day  Saints  by  one  of  the  Apostlee 
that  "if  we  walk  in  the  light  as  he  is 
in  the  light,  then  we  will  have  fellow- 
ship >ne  for  another,  and  the  blood  of 
Jesus  Christ  will  cleanse  us  from  ah 
sin."  In  order  to  walk  in  the  light,  we 
must  enjoy  the  light  of  the  spirit  of 
God,  for  that  is  the  light  that  should 
lighten  our  path,  and  that  should  lead 
us  onward  to  our  salvation;  and  we  can 
enjoy  that  only  as  we  are  yielding  obe- 
dience to  the  principles  of  the  ever- 
lasting Gospel  and  listening  to  the 
counsels  of  God  through  His  servants, 
for  we  are  told  that  "we  should  live 
not  by  bread  alone,  but  by  every  word 
that  proceedeth  out  of  the  mouth  of 
God;"  and  the  words  of  God  are  those 
that  are  spoken  through  the  inspira- 
tion of  His  Holy  Spirit  by  those  whom 
he  has  called  to  administer  His  word 
unto  the  people. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  with  noble  and 
worthy  ambitions  and  with  a  determin- 
ation to  improve  our  lives;  and  let  the 
love  of  truth  burn  within  us,  and  also 
the  love  of  our  fellowmen.     Let  us  do 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


what  we  can  for  the  onward  progress 
of  the  kingdom  of  God,  for  it  is  a  great 
honor  that  has  been  conferred  upon  us, 
in  that  we  have  received  the  Gospel, 
and  in  that  we  have  been  chosen  ot 
God  to  be  instruments  in  His  hands  to 
disseminate  a  knowledge  of  the  truth 
among  the  nations  of  the  earth.  May 
the  Lord  help  us  to  be  worthy  of  the 
trust  He  has  imposed  on  us;  may  He 
help  us  to  improve  the  time  and  talents 
which  He  has  bestowed  upon  us  to  tho 
interest  of  His  kingdom;  may  we  all 
seek  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  His 
righteousness,  and  I  promise  you,  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord,  that  all  other  things, 
prosperity,  happiness,  comfort,  and 
wealth,  will  be  given  unto  us,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen.  ■ 
Sister  Emma  Ramsey  then  sang: 

Gome  all  ye  sons  of  Zion, 
And  let  us  praise  the  Lord. 


ELDER  A.  O.  WOODRUFF. 

I  will  read  a  few  verses  from  the  28th 
chapter  of  Second  Nephi: 

"And,  now  behold  my  brethren  I 
have  spoken  unto  you  as  the  spirit  hath 
constrained  me,  wherefore,  I  know  that 
they  shall  surely  come  to  pass. 

"The  things  which  shall  be  written 
out  of  the  book  shall  be  of  great  worth 
unto  the  children  of  men,  and  especialy 
unto  our  seed,  which  is  a  remnant  of 
the  house  of  Israel. 

"For  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  that  day 
that  the  churches  which  are  built  up 
and  not  unto  the  Lord,  when  the  one 
shall  say  unto  the  other,  Behold  I,  I  am 
the  Lord's;  and  the  others  shall  say  I 
I  am  the  Lord's.  And  thus  shall  every 
one  say  that  hath  built  up  churches, 
and  not  unto  the  Lord." 

Those  who  profess  in  the  world  to  be 
ministers  of  Christ,  are  fulfilling  this 
prophecy  to  the  very  letter.  It  appears 
that  the  ministers  who  profess  to  be 
the  teachers  of  Christ's  doctrine  in  this 
city  and  other  parts  where  our  peo- 
ple are  located,  have  made  a  specialty 
of  preaching  the  doctrine  that  the  gifts 
and  blessings  which  follow  the  believer 
have  been  done  away.  The  Lord  has 
said  that  certain  signs  should  follow 
the  believer,  and  this  people  knows  that 
these  signs  and  that  these  blessings 
which  were  to  follow  a  true  faith,  a 
true  repentance,  a  true  baptism,  and  a 


true  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  recep- 
tion of  the  Holy  Ghost,  are  found  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  today.    When  men  who  profess 
to  be  ministers  of  Christ  stand  up  and 
teach  the  people  otherwise  they  are 
manifesting  the  spirit  of  anti-Christ— 
they  are  teaching  anti-Christ  doctrine. 
They  are  not  teaching  the  doctrine  that 
Paul  referred  to  when  he  said:  "Though 
we  or  an  angel  from  heaven  preach  any 
other  Gospel  unto  you  than  that  which 
we  have  preached  unto  you,  let  him  be 
accursed."  They  are  not  preaching  that 
Gospel  which  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation  unto  them  that  believe.  They 
are  preaching  the  doctrine  and  are  re- 
presenting the  churches  that  have  been 
built  up  to  the  honor  of  men— to  the 
honor  of  Peter,  of  Paul,  of  Luther,  of 
Zwingle,  and  other  reformers— men  who 
lived  in  former  times.    They  are  not 
teaching  the  one  faith,  the  one  Lord 
and  the  one    baptism    which  Jesus 
preached  when  He  was  upon  the  earth. 
Just  so  long  as  God  acknowledges  His 
Church  upon  the  earth  the  signs  will 
follow  the  believer.   I  am  glad  to  know 
that  this  is  an  individual  work;  that 
we  have  not  to  depend  upon  the  testi- 
mony of  Peter,  of  Paul,  of  Mark,  or  of 
Matthew,  or  any  of  those  who  lived  in 
the  days  of  Christ,  to  enjoy  and  have  a 
testimony  of  this  work.    I  thank  God 
that  every  one  that  has  arrived  to  the 
years  of  accountability,  can  know  that 
this  work  is  of  God.    When  men  seek 
to  teach  the  people  that  these  gifts  have 
been  done  away,  that  they  were  simply 
necessary  to  establish  the  Church  in 
ancient  times,  and  that  they  have  now 
been  done  away,  they  deny  the  scrip- 
tures.   We  are  told  in  holy  writ,  "seek 
ye  in  the  scriptures,  for  in  them  ye 
think  ye  have  eternal  life,  and  see  if 
they  are  not  they  which  testify  of  me." 
The  scriptures  testify  that  these  signs 
should    follow     the     believer.  Peter 
taught  it  upon  the  day  of  Pentecost, 
telling  the  people  if  they  would  repent  of 
their  sins,  and  be  baptized  for  the  re- 
mission of  them,  they  should  receive 
the  Holy  Ghost,  and  these  gifts  would 
be  made  manifest  unto  them.  When 
Peter  and  the  other  Apostles  stood  up 
before  the  people  they  taught  the  doc 
trine  of  the  Lord  Jesus  unto  them;  but 
today  men  say  these  things  are  done 
away.   It  has  been  taught  in  the  world, 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAM' SON. 


57 


and  in  some  of  the  sectarian  churches 
in  this  city  within  the  last  few  weeks 
that  Abraham  was  an  ignorant  man; 
that  God  overlooked  sin  and  crime  in 
his  case  because  of  his  degeneracy  and 
ignorance.  It  is  remarkable  that  we 
live  in  a  time  when  those  who  profess  to 
be  the  followers  of  Christ  will  ridicule 
the  man  whom  the  Lord  held  up  and 
called  righteous,  and  call  him  degener- 
ate and  ignorant;  he  who  was  held  up 
through  the  mission  of  Christ  as  a  per- 
fect man,  the  father  of  the  faithful. 
There  are  anti-Christs  among  this  peo- 
ple; we  hear  anti-Christ  doctrine  from 
time  to  time — doctrine  which  is  not  in 
accordance  with  any  of  the  scriptures 
that  have  been  handed  down  to  us,  nor 
in  accordance  with  the  teachings  of  the 
Apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Our 
people  should  be  warned  of  these  doc- 
trines, the  doctrines  of  devils  and  of 
men,  that  are  taught  in  some  of  the 
congregations  of  the  world  today  by 
those  who  profess  to  be  the  followers 
of  Christ  —  Spiritualists,  Christian 
Scientists  and  others.  Those  who  ad- 
vocate them  claim  that  they  are 
Christ's.  But  they  do  not  teach  the 
doctrine  of  Christ?  They  deny  the  car- 
dinal doctrines  our  Savior  taught  while 
He  was  upon  the  earth.  Why  don't 
they  teach  the  one  Lord,  the  one  faith, 
and  the  one  baptism  that  was  taught 
by  our  Savior  and  His  disciples?  Why 
is  it  that  they  deny  faith  in  the  true 
and  living  God — a  God  with  body,  parts 
and  passions.  How  is  it  that  they  deny 
these  things?  Why  do  they  deny  true 
baptism?  Jesus  says,  "Except  ye  ara 
born  of  the  water  and  of  the  spirit  ye 
cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God." 
If  they  believe  in  the  doctrine  of  Jesus 
Christ,  why  do  they  spiritualize  awa> 
the  resurrection,  the  fundamental  doc- 
trine which  Jesus  taught  while  He  was 
upon  the  earth?  I  say  our  people  should 
beware  of  them.  Where  can  you  find 
Latter-day  Saints  that  have  become  dis- 
contented with  our  doctrines,  that  have 
joined  any  of  these  sects  that  have  been 
instituted  by  men,  if  they  have  been 
faithful  and  kept  themselves  free  from 
the  sins  of  the  world;  there  is 
a  cause  for  apostacy;  there  is  a  cause 
for  sin;  there  is  a  cause  for  rebellion; 
there  is  a  cause  for  disobedience.  They 
do  not  come  by  chance.  It  is  all  right 
to  prove  all  things  and  hold  fast  to  that 


which  is  good,  but  we  should  be  estab- 
lished in  the  doctrine  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ;  we  should  have  a  testi- 
mony of  the  divinity  of  this  work,  for 
it  is  God's  work  and  He  will  see  it 
through.  He  will  cause  that  it  shall 
triumph  over  everything  that  is  man- 
made;  and  He  will  choose  those  things 
which  seem  to  be  naught  to  bring  to 
naught  those  that  be. 
God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  This  idea 
of  having  short  speeches  and  songs 
interspersed  meets  my  mind  exactly. 
It  is  an  arrangement  which  seems  to 
please  the  people.  In  Boxelder  Stake 
we  have  our  opening  exercises,  then 
we  have  the  sacrament,  after  the  sac- 
rament singing  again,  then  a  short 
sermon,  then  a  song,  then  another 
short  sermon,  and  after  that  the  con- 
cluding exercises;  and  that  generally 
brings  us  to  half  past  three,  and  we 
close  our  meeting.  This  is  a  custom  we 
follow  at  all  times,  except  during  our 
conferences,  when  we  go  a  little  be- 
yond that  hour.  When  this  meeting 
shall  have  closed  you  will  remember 
that  the  Temple  choir  has  done  a  great 
deal  in  helping  to  make  it  interesting 
an<3  instructive. 

I  sat  in  the  Tabernacle  and  looked 
out  upon  the  vast  congregation  of 
Saints,  I  was  impressed  with  the  re- 
mark of  President  Cannon  when  he  re- 
minded us  that  the  Church  had  grown 
from  a  small  beginning,  from  an  or- 
ganization of  six  members  in  the  year 
1830,  to  what  we  witness  today.  I  re- 
member the  time  when  President 
Young  was  in  our  midst,  and  a  large 
canvas  was  stretched  through  the  cen- 
tre of  the  Tabernacle,  and  at  confer- 
ence time  there  were  no  more  people 
assembled  to  hear  the  instructions  of 
the  servants  of  God  than  we  have  in 
this  hall  today.  We  now  have  this 
congregation  and  an  immense  con- 
gregation assembled  in  the  Tabernacle, 
and  I  see  hundreds  of  people  passing 
back  and  forth;  and  there  are  hun- 
dreds of  Saints  upon  the  streets  of  Salt 
Lake  City  at  this  moment  walking 
back  and  forth,  and  visiting  among 
their  friends.  And  there  are  other 
hundreds  of  people  that  could  not  come 
to   this  conference  being  detained  at 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


home   owing   to   the   lateness     of  the 
season,    as  they   are   putting   in  their 
seeds,  trimming  their  trees,  and  putting 
things  in  order.    We  have  grown  to  be 
a  mighty  people  in     the  midst  of  the 
Rocky  Mountains;  and  the  peculiarity 
of  it  all  is  that  this  people  are  held  to- 
gether.   You   go  down    into    the  Utah 
Stake  of    Zion,  meet    with    ihe  people 
there  in  conference,  and  you  will  find 
the  same  spirit  prevailing  in  their  midst 
as  we  have  witnessed  at  this  general 
conference.    If  you  go  up  into  the  Box- 
elder  Stake  you  will  find  the  same  spirit 
prevailing  there.    If  you  go  down  to 
Old  Mexico  and  meet  with  the  Saints  in 
that  part  of  the  country,  there  will  be 
the  same  good  spirit  of  the  Gospel;  and 
so  in  Canada,  and  in  all  parts  of  the 
Church.    How  is  it  that  this  people  are 
not  wandering  away  into  false  doctrines 
and  into  heresies  and  becoming  dark- 
ened in  their  minds  and  contending  one 
with  another?   It    is     the  marvelous 
power  of  God  that  holds  them  together. 
I  used   to   wonder,    years  ago,  how  it 
would    be    when    the    Church  grew  in 
numbers  and    spread    out,    filling  the 
land  north  and  south,  east  and  west — 
how  they  could  be  held  together  and 
kept  as  one  people  having  one  faith,  one 
baptism  and  one  understanding  of  the 
Gospel.    There  is  no  power  under  the 
heavens    that    could    accomplish  this 
wonderful  thing  but  the  power  of  God; 
and  it  is  a  testimony  to  me  of  the  truth 
of  this  great  work.    If  I  saw  nothing 
else  about  it,  this  would  be  convincing 
to  me.   We  are  established  in  the  moun- 
tains, and  the  character  of  our  organ- 
ization, the  character  of  our  teachings, 
the  character  of  our  temporal  work,  is 
such  that  we  are  attracting  the  notice 
of  the  world;  and  the  rich  men,  and  the 
learned,and  the  d  gnitaries  o"  this  world 
who  go  forth  and  visit  from  place  to 
place,  feel    that  their,  journey    is  not 
complete  until  they  have  visited  Zion. 
They  come  into  our  meetings  and  learn 
something   of  our  doctrine  or  organiza- 
tion;    they  go  out    upon  our  streets, 
visit  the  lake, and  they  see  that  wonder- 
ful   building    there;  they    go  into  our 
Tabernacle  and  are  entertained  there  by 
musical  selections  from  the  great  organ, 
and   observe   the  remarkable  accous- 
tic  properties  of  that  building;  they 
go  out  and  look  upon  our  Temple,  and 
they  see  a  building  there  that  is  fifty 


years  ahead  of  the  times,  and  it  must 
surprise  them  greatly  when  they  learn 
that  that  building  was  commenced  in 
the  days  of  poverty,  and  in  the  days  of 
the  afflictions  of  this  people.    But  the 
grandeur  of  that  building,  which  is  es- 
timated to  have  cost  between  three  and 
four  million  dollars.    The  beauty  of  its 
finish,  the  richness  of  its  furnishings, 
are  nothing  compared  to  the  spirit  that 
you  find  in  that  building.  Strangers 
who  look  upon  it  and  contemplate  the 
work  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  have  no 
conception     of      the       spirit  that 
dwells  in   that     holy   Temple.  When 
the     Saints     go     into     that  build- 
ing   they     are     at     first  impressed 
by  its  surroundings,  by  the  spacious- 
ness of  the  rooms,  and  the  beauty  of 
the  furnishings;  but  after  awhile  they 
forget  all   that;    they   have  no  time  to 
think  about  the  building,  they  are  so 
deeply  impressed  by  the  spirit  that  is 
there.    A  place  where  they  can  enter 
and  leave  the  world  behind  them.  They 
are  not  troubled  in  that  house  by  the 
cares  and  the  anxieties  and  the  troubles 
of  this  world.    The  world  seems  to  be 
far  beneath  them.  They  have  no  time  to 
think  about  it.    They  are  swallowed  up 
in  the  spirit  and  power  of  God.    In  re- 
flecting, I  have  been  struck  with  the 
idea  that  had  it  not  been  for  the  con- 
descension    of    God    to    His  servant 
Joseph  Smith  the  prophet,  that  magni- 
ficent building  would  be  of  little  use  to 
us,  as  there  would  have  been  no  occa- 
sion to  build  it.  We  could  not  have  used 
it  if  we  had  had  it.     Its  arrangement 
is  such  that  it  would  be  good  for  no 
other  purpose  except  the  purpose  de- 
signed by  our  Father — the  performance 
of  vicarious  ordinance  work  for  the  liv- 
ing and  for  the  dead.   And  it  is  through 
the  blessing,  mercy,  and  condescension 
of  the  Lord  that  we  enjoy  these  bless- 
ings, and  that  we  are  permitted  to  go 
into  the  house  of  God;  and  that  we  are 
permitted  to  receive  the  Priesthood  and 
go  forth  and  work  out  our  salvation  in 
fear  and  trembling. 

I  rejoice  in  these  things,  and  I  am 
truly  thankful  to  be  associated  with 
you  in  this  work  of  God.  I  have  a  de- 
sire in  my  heart  to  magnify  the  Priest- 
hood and  to  follow  counsel.  I  know 
there  is  safety  in  counsel.  With  the 
little  experience  I  have  had  in  the 
world,  I  have  been  delivered  from  many 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLE}. 


59 


difficulties,  I  have  been  protected  and 
shielded  from  harm,  by  following  ad- 
vice. I  know  that  my  Priesthood,  my 
calling  and  the  authority  that  God  has 
given  unto  me,  will  be  of  little  use  in 
this  world  except  I  shall  be  submis- 
sive and  willing  to  follow  counsel.  Let 
us  reflect  upon  these  things.  Let  us  be 
wise  in  our  day  and  generation,  that 
God  may  be  pleased  to  accept  of  our 
labors  and  crown  us  heirs  with  His 
Saints  in  His  kingdom.  I  trust  that 
this  may  be  the  case,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  "Along  the  river  of 
time  we  glide,"  after  which 

ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  desire 
your  faith  and  prayers  for  the  few  mo- 
ments that  I  shall  occupy.  I  have  very 
much  rejoiced  in  the  teachings  of  this 
conference,  including  this  meeting;  and 
the  beautiful  songs  of  praise  which 
have  been  rendered,  must  of  necessity 
impress  the  hearts  of  Latter-day  Saints 
with  the  spirit  of  spiritual  refinement, 
and  tend  to  lead  us  to  exercise  our 
thoughts  and  influence  our  acts,  when 
we  shall  leave  this  conference,  in  a 
strong  devotion  to  the  cause  which  we 
are  so  honored  as  to  be  identified  with. 

I  desire  to  ask  m.y  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, and  in  order  to  be  consistent,  I 
will  covenant  with  you,  (as  we  shall  get 
the  reports  of  this  conference)  to  read 
carefully  all  the  instructions  which 
have  been  given  by  President  Snow, 
his  counselors,  the  Twelve  Apost- 
les, and  the  presiding  council  of  the 
Seventies,  whose  representatives  are 
with  us  in  this  meeting,  and  that  we 
shall  digest  at  our  leisure  the  counsel 
which  has  been  imparted.  The  instruc- 
tions are  important,  and  their  propriety 
should  be  a  testimony  to  us  that  they 
have  been  dictated  by  the  inspiration 
of  the  Lord.  We  have  been  instructed 
at  this  conference  with  teachings  that 
should  lead  us  to  respect  and  venerate 
the  Father  and  the  Son,  and  to  cherish 
with  profound  respect  the  name  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  also  his 
successors  down  to  the  present  admin- 
istration of  the  affairs  of  the  Church. 
We  have  been  counselled  to  utilize  the 
means,  the  material  substance  with 
which    the  Lord    has    so  generously 


blessed  us  in  these  mountain  valleys, 
more  liberally  in  the  advancement  of 
the  work  of  God  upon  the  earth.  In 
connection  with  this  we  ought  to  en- 
courage the  work  for  the  salvation  of 
the  dead.  Our  contributions  to  the 
temples  ought  to  be  more  liberal;  and 
the  Saints  who  are  home,  and  es- 
pecially those  who  have  been  blessed 
with  means  and  have  considerable 
leisure,  ought  to  go  to  the  Temples  in 
their  respective  districts  and  work 
for  the  redemption  of  the  dead. 
If  you  have  not  names  in 
the  line  of  your  own  family  genealogy, 
there  is  an  abundance  of  genealogical 
records  which  have  been  prepared  by 
the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  upon  the 
hearts  of  men,  not  Latter-day  Saints. 
Since  the  Prophet  Elijah  visited  the 
Kirtland  Temple  and  turned  the  keys 
of  salvation  for  the  dead,  that  spirit 
has  brooded  not  only  in  the  hearts  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  but  it  has  op- 
erated largely  in  the  hearts  of  men  who 
do  not  understand  the  spirit  which 
actuated  them  to  write  genealogical 
histories.  We  ought  to  work  for  the 
redemption  of  the  dead. 

We  have  been  cited  by  President 
Snow  and  others  of  the  brethren  to  the 
necessity  of  paying  our  tithing,  and  we 
have  been  reminded  that  this  law  has 
been  established  to  some  extent  as  a 
source  of  education,  to  bring  us  to  the 
observance  of  the  higher  law — the  law 
of  consecration.  Zion  can  only  be  re- 
deemed upon  that  law.  Now,  if  we 
would  come  to  that  higher  law,  we 
must  act  upon  the  law  of  tithing,  and 
we  must  pay  our  tithes  honestly  and 
fully  in  order  to  secure  the  blessings 
which  are  attached  to  that  sacred  re- 
quirement which  God  has  established 
as  a  law  in  His  Church.  We  have  been 
reminded  at  this  conference  by  numbers 
of  the  brethren  that  we  should  utilize 
the  temporal  blessings  which  have 
come  to  us  in  making  the  Latter-day 
Saints  more  of  a  self-sustaining  people. 
I  do  not  understand  the  design  of  God 
to  be  that  His  Saints  shall  be  depend- 
ant upon  any  nation.  I  do  understand 
that  the  decree  has  gone  forth  that 
Babylon  shall  fall — Babylon,  the  mother 
of  harlots  and  the  abomination  of  all 
the  earth.  Suppose  her  institutions 
should  fail,  and  we  should  be  cut  off 
from  that  communication  with  the  out- 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


side  world  that  we  now  possess,  what 
is  our  condition  so  far  as  material  in- 
terests are  concerned?  We  do  not  man- 
ufacture clothing  enough  to  clothe  our 
people;  we  do  not  manufacture  boots 
and  shoes  enough  for  footwear; 
we  do  not  manufacture  the  head-gear 
that  adorns  and  shades  the  heads  of  the 
men  and  women  of  this  Church.  We  do 
not  utilize  the  elements  with  which  the 
Lord  has  so  abundantly  blessed  this 
land  and  work  them  into  utensils  that 
are  essential  for  the  benefit  of  the  peo- 
ple as  we  should  do.  The  time  is  com- 
ing when  God  will  require  us  to  do  it, 
when  He  will  require  that  the  apparel 
and  other  articles  of  usefulness  shall 
be  of  the  workmanship  of  our  hands, 
and  it  is  the  duty  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  to  use  the  manufactured  mater- 
ials that  can  be  produced  in  this  land 
by  our  own  efforts.  I  do  not  think  that 
we  should  be  a  covenant  breaking  peo- 
ple. I  remember  a  few  years  ago, 
when  Brother  John  W.  Taylor  and  my- 
self lived  in  the  Fourteenth  ward,  on  a 
certain  occasion  his  father,  Elder  Or- 
son Pratt,  and  Elder  George  Q.  Cannon 
came  to  a  meeting  in  that  ward  and 
they  read  to  us  what  was  designated 
as  the  fourteen  rules  of  the  united  or- 
der, and  there  were  a  great  many  truths 
enunciated  in  that  document.  We  made 
solemn  covenants  that  we  would  ob- 
serve the  Sabbath  day  and  keep  it  holy, 
and  that  we  would  not  justify  our 
young  people  in  going  to  pleasure  re- 
sorts upon  that  day;  that  we  would  not 
justify  them  in  profanity,  nor  in  the 
use  of  any  unbecoming  language.  We 
made  covenants  that  we  would  not  take 
the  name  of  the  Deity  in  vain  nor  speak 
lightly  of  His  character  nor  of  sacred 
things.  We  made  solemn  covenants 
that  we  would  sustain  one  another  in 
our  material  interests,  and  that  we 
would  utilize  the  means  which  God  had 
placed  in  our  hands  to  manufacture  the 
articles  that  were  necessary  for  our  use 
in  the  establishing  of  the  work  of  God 
in  this  land.  A  great  many  other  cov- 
enants were  made,  and  we  lifted  up 
our  hands  in  solemnity  before  God,  just 
as  we  have  done  this  afternoon  to  sus- 
tain the  Prophet  of  God  and  his  associ- 
ates, who  have  been  called  to  be  the  liv- 
ing oracles  of  God  unto  this  Church. 
I  will  read  a  passage  or  two  of 
scripture    to   show   the  responsibility 


we  are  under,  and  then  I  will  close. 
I  wish  to  say  to  the  Elders  of  Israel 
that  when  they  are  called  upon  to  bear 
testimony,  or  preach  the  Gospel  at 
home  or  abroad,  they  are  forbidden  to 
do  so,  except  through  the  prayer  of 
faith,  they  receive  the  spirit  of  God  and 
preach  by  the  power  of  that  spirit.  In 
speaking  of  those  who  are  called  upon 
to  preach  the  Gospel,  it  says  they 
"shall  reason  and  expound  the  scrip- 
tures unto  them. 

"And,  behold,  and  lo,  this  is  an  en- 
sample  unto  all  those  who  were  or- 
dained unto  this  Priesthood  whose  mis- 
sion is  appointed  unto  them  to  go  forth; 

"And  this  is  the  ensample  unto  them, 
that  they  shall  speak  as  they  are  moved 
upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  and 
whatsoever  they  should  speak  when 
moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost, 
shall  be  scripture,  shall  be  the  will  of 
the  Lord,  shall  be  the  mind  of  the  Lord, 
shall  be  the  word  of  the  Lord,  shall  be 
the  voice  of  the  Lord,  and  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation."  Doc.  and  Gov.  Sec. 
68.  2-4.) 

Young  brethren  and  sisters,  what  you 
have  heard  President  Snow  say  in  re- 
gard to  doing  the  will  of  the  Lord, 
no  matter  what  the  world  might  say 
was  the  will  of  the  Lord,  the 
voice  of  the  Lord,  and  will  be  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation  unto  all  who  have 
the  integrity  of  heart  and  the  courage 
to  obey  it.  And  whatsoever  counsel  is 
given  by  the  Bishops,  by  the  Presidents 
of  Stakes,  by  the  presiding  authorities 
in  every  department  is  the  word  and 
will  of  the  Lord  when  they  are  actuated 
by  the  light  and  intelligence  of  the 
Holy  Spirit.  "Behold,  you  are  they  who 
are  ordained  of  me,  and  ordained 
priests  and  teachers."  This  calling, 
speaking  of  the  Twelve,  "is  to  declare 
my  Gospel  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  which  is  in  you,  and  according 
to  the  callings  and  gifts  of  God,  unto 
men."  This  is  the  way  they  are  to  do 
it — by  the  spirit  and  revelation  of  Al- 
mighty God.  "Wherefore,  lift  up  your 
voice  and  spare  not."  We  are  not  to 
spare  or  neglect.  It  is  the  duty  of  the 
servants  of  God  in  every  capacity  to 
declare  the  truth  and  not  mince  it. 
"Wherefore,  lift  up  your  voice  and 
spare  not,  for  the  Lord,  God,  hath 
spoken.  Therefore,  prophecy,  and  it 
shall  be  given  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost." 

"And  again  the  Elders,  Priests  and 


ELDER  JO  HIS  IV  TAYLOR. 


61 


Teachers  of  this  Church  shall  teach  the 
principles  of  my  Gospel,  which  are  in 
the  Bible  and  in  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
in  the  which  is  the  fulness  of  the  Gos- 
pel; 

"And  they  shall  observe  the  coven- 
ants and  Church  articles  to  do  them 
and  these  shall  be  their  teachings, 
as  they  shall  be  directed  by  the  spirit; 

"And  the  spirit  shall  be  given  unto 
you  by  the  prayer  of  faith,  and  .if  ye  re- 
ceive not  the  spirit,  ye  shall  not  teach." 

I  might  read  many  more  verses,  but 
this  will  suffice.  Let  us  seek  for  the 
companionship  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  that 
it  may  be  our  guide  in  all  of  our  minis- 
trations and  in  all  our  ambitions,  and 
in  applying  to  our  conduct  the  excel- 
lent counsel  and  instructions  which 
have  been  given  unto  us  during  this 
conference;  and  inasmuch  as  we  do  this 
the  spirit  of  Almighty  God  will  be  with 
us  and  the  spirit  and  peace  of  the  Al- 
mighty will  dwell  in  our  homes. 

Have  your  family  prayers  every  night 
and  every  morning,  and  let  every  man, 
woman  and  child  attend  to  his  or  her 
secret  prayers,  that  we  may  come  near 
unto  the  Lord.  Pay  your  tithing  and 
the  God  of  heaven  will  bless  you.  May 
peace  be  with  you  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, and  be  taken  to  your  homes  and 
rest  upon  your  children  and  your 
flocks  and  your  herds  and  upon  the  soil 
which  God  has  given  us  in  this  choice 
land,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 

Before  closing,  I  wish  to  bear  my  tes- 
timony to  what  has  been  said,  and  con- 
cerning this  Gospel.  I  know  that  God 
lives,  and  that  every  man  and  woman 
can  have  this  testimony  if  they  will  de- 
vote themselves  to  God  and  keep  His 
commandments.  I  know  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  full  of  in- 
spiration, and  a  man  that  had  the  rev- 
elations of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  con- 
tinually delivered  unto  him;  that  the 
gifts  and  blessings  that  were  in  the  an- 
cient Church  of  Christ  exist  in  the 
Church  of  Christ  in  our  day. 

I  wish  to  say  to  my  young  brethren 
and  sisters,  do  not  be  led  away  by  the 
sophistry  of  the  world,  "for  straight  is 
the  gate  and  narrow  is  the  way  that 
leadeth  unto  life  eternal  and  few  there 
be  that  find  it;  and    broad  is  the  gate 


and  wide  is  the  way  that  leadeth  to 
destruction,  and  many  there  be  that  go 
in  thereat."  If  you  will  listen  to  the 
words  of  the  Prophets  of  God,  and  will 
walk  in  that  straight  and  narrow  path, 
you  can  have  a  testimony  of  this  Gos- 
pel. There  are  a  few  that  enjoy  these 
gifts  and  blessings,  but  it  is  a  rare  oc- 
currence where  a  man  can  go  among 
this  people  and  see  these  gifts  and 
blessings  manifest  in  their  midst.  I 
feel  that  there  is  a  responsibility  rest- 
ing upon  this  people.  I  will  read  a  few 
verses,  before  I  take  my  seat — the  tes- 
timony of  Moroni  the  Prophet:" 

"And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
ye  may  know  the  truth  of  all  things. 

"And  whatsoever  thing  is  good,  is 
just  and  true;  wherefore  nothing  that 
is  good  denieth  the  Christ,.but  acknow- 
ledged that  He  is. 

"And  ye  may  know  that  He  is  by  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost;  wherefore  I 
would  exhort  you,  that  ye  deny  not  the 
power  of  God;  for  He  worketh  by  power 
according  to  the  faith  of  the  children 
of  men,  the  same  today,  tomorrow  and 
forever. 

"And  again  I  exhort  you  my  brethren, 
that  ye  deny  not  the  gifts  of  God  for 
they  are  many;  and  they  come  from  the 
same  God.  And  there  are  different  ways 
that  these  gifts  are  administered;  but 
it  is  the  same  God  who  worketh  all  in 
all;  and  they  are  given  by  the  manifest- 
ations of  the  spirit  of  God  unto  men, 
to  profit  them. 

"For  behold,  to  one  is  given  by  the 
spirit  of  God,  that  he  may  teach  the 
word  of  wisdom; 

"And  to  another,  that  he  may  teach 
the  word  of  knowledge  by  the  same 
spirit; 

"And  to  another,  exceeding  great 
faith;  and  to  another,  the  gifts  of  heal- 
ing by  the  same  spirit. 

"And  again,  to  another,  that  he  may 
work  mighty  miracles; 

"And  again,  to  another  tnat  he  may 
prophecy  concerning  all  things; 

"And  again,  to  another,  the  beholding 
of  angels  and  ministering  spirits; 

"And  again,  to  another,  all  kinds  ot 
tongues ; 

"And  again,  to  another,  the  interpre- 
tation of  languages  and  of  divers  kinds 
of  tongues. 

"And  all  these  gifts  come  by  the 
Spirit  of  Christ  and  they  come  unto 
every  man  severally,  according  as  He 
will. 

"And  I  would  exhort  you,  my  beloved 
brethren,  that  ye  remember  that  every 
good  gift  cometh  of  Christ. 

"And  I  would  exhort  you,  my  beloved 
brethren,  that  ye  remember  that  He  is 
the  same  yesterday,  today  and  forever, 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  that  all  these  gifts  of  which  I 
have  spoken,  which  are  spiritual,  never 
will  be  done  away,  even  as  long  as  the 
world  shall  stand,  only  according  to 
the  unbelief  of  the  children  of  men. 

"Wherefore,  there  must  be  faith;  and 
if  there  must  be  faith,  there  must  also 
be  hope;  and  if  there  must  be  hope, 
there  must  also  be  charity; 

"And  except  ye  have  charity,ye  can  in 
no  wise  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of 
God;  neither  can  ye  be  saved  in  the 
kingdom  of  God,  if  ye  have  not  faith; 
neither  can  ye  if  ye  have  no  hope; 

"And  if  ye  have  no  hope,  ye  must 
needs  be  in  despair;  and  despair  cometh 
because  of  iniquity. 

"And  Christ  truly  said  unto  our 
fathers,  if  ye  have  faith,  ye  can  do  all 
things,  which  is  expedient  unto  me. 

"And  now  I  speak  unto  all  the  ends 
of  the  earth,  that  if  the  day  cometh  that 
the  power  and  gifts  of  God  shall  be 
done  away  among  you,  it  shall  be  be- 
cause of  unbelief." 

I  admonish  the  Latter-day  Saints  to 
seek  for  the  best  gifts.  Although  all 
of  the  sects  upon  the  face  of  the  earth 
may  say  that  it  is  unnecessary  to  be 
baptized  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and  that  it  is  not  necessary  to  have 
hands  laid  upon  them  for  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  I  say  that  the  voice  of  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world  cries  out  unto 
all  the  nations  of  the  earth  in  His  testi- 
mony to  Nicodemus,  "Except  ye  be 
born  of  the  water  and  of  the  spirit,  ye 
cannot  enter  the  kingdom  of  God."  I 
testify  unto  you  as  an  Apostle  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  His  name 
that  you  will  not  be  prepared  for  His 
coming  if  you  do  not  enjoy  the  gifts 
of  God.  They  are  as  free  unto  the  chil- 
dren of  men  as  a  well  of  living  water 
springing  up  unto  everlasting  life, .  if 
they  will  follow  the  admonition  of  Bro- 
ther Kimball  this  afternoon  to  "seek 
first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  His  right- 
eousness, and  all  other  things  shall  be 
added  unto  you."  What  a  grand  and 
glorious  promise!  Young  ladies,  how 
many  of  you  have  a  gift  from  God? 
How  many  of  you  have  been  clothed 
with  the  fire  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  ia 
as  a  fire  burning  within  you  ?  How  many 
of  you  enjoy  a  knowledge  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ?  How  many  of  you  young 
gentlemen  are  seeking  after  these 
things?  Have  you  a  gift  from  God?  If 
you  have  not  seek  earnestly  after  these 
things,  for  Jesus  speaking  of  His  sec- 
ond coming,  said  that  the  kingdom  of 
God  would  be  likened  unto  ten  virgins, 
five  of  whom  were  wis'e  and  five  were 
foolish,  and  he  said  but  half  of  them 


would  have  oil  in  their  lamps.  What  is 
that  oil?  It  is  the  Holy  Ghost,  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation;  it  is  that 
spirit  that  will  lead  you  into  the  ways  of 
truth;  it  is  that  spirit  which  partake th 
of  the  things  of  God  and  reveals  them 
unto  the  children  of  men;  it  is  that 
spirit  that  makes  children  obedient  to 
parents.  Young  people,  obey  your  par- 
ents! Parents,  let  us  not  permit  that 
commandment  of  the  Lord  to  go  un- 
heeded: "Honor  thy  father  and  thy 
mother  that  thy  days  may  be  long  upon 
the  land  which  the  Lord  thy  God  giveth 
thee."  Nine-tenths  of  the  mistakes  of 
this  people  would  be  corrected  in  the 
young  if  they  would  listen  to  the  coun- 
sels of  their  fathers  and  mothers.  Fa- 
thers and  mothers  are  just  as  much  en- 
titled to  the  revelations  of  God  for  the 
benefit  of  their  families,  as  President 
Snow  is  for  the  good  of  the  Church. 
Young  people,  listen  to  the  voice  of 
your  fathers  and  your  mothers!  They 
love  you;  you  are  the  fruit  of  their 
loins,  and  they  would  give  their  lives 
for  you.  And  they  are  entitled  to  the 
revelations  of  the  Lord  to  guide  you 
into  the  ways  of  truth.  Every  father 
and  every  mother  if  they  are  doing 
their  duty,  will  have  that  inspiration 
they  should  have,  and  will  have  that 
knowledge,  to  counsel  their  sons  and 
daughters  to  walk  in  that  straight  and 
narrow  path  that  leads  to  eternal  life, 
and  you  will  not  make  any  mistakes  if 
you  will  listen  to  their  advice. 

God  bless  you  and  fill  you  with  His 
Holy  Spirit.  This  is  a  time  for  prepar- 
ation and  not  for  many  words.  I  re- 
joice that  I  am  counted  worthy  to  be 
in  your  midst  at  this  conference,  and  1 
hope  that  what  has  been  said  will  be  as> 
leaven,  and  will  go  forth  among  the 
people  until  the  whole  lump  is  leavened, 
and  until  the  desire  of  all  is  to  serve 
God  and  keep  His  commandments.  1 
feel  to  say  God  bless  you  and  peace  be 
unto  you,  and  to  your  wives  and  to  your 
children,  and  to  the  land  of  Zion,  and 
may  God  temper  the  elements  for 
the  good  of  this  people,  that  Zion  may 
grow  and  increase  until  she  shall  be 
the  glory  of  the  whole  earth,  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

Sister  Lizzie  Thomas  Edward,  Sister 
Ramsey  and  the  choir  sang,  "O,  Holy 
Jesus,"  and  benediction  was  pronounced 
by  Elder  Andrew  Jenson. 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON 


63 


CLOSING  SESSION. 

2  p.  m. 

Singing  by  the  choir,  the  hymn  com- 
mencing, 

Ye  simple  souls  who  stray, 

Far  from  the  path  of  peace, 
That  lonely,  unfrequented  way 
To  life  and  happiness. 

Prayer  by  Elder  Heber  J.  Grant. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem  :  * 
O  come  all  ye  faithful. 

THE   GENERAL,  AUTHORITIES 
were  presented,  for  the  vote  of  the  con- 
ference, by  President  George  Q.  Can- 
non, as  follows: 

Lorenzo  Snow,  as  Prophet,  seer  and 
Revelator,  and  President  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
in  all  the  world. 

George  Q.  Cannon  as  First  Counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

Joseph  F.  Smith  as  Second  Counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

Franklin  D.  Richards  as  President  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles. 

As  members  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles — Franklin  D.  Rich- 
ards, Brigham  Young,  Francis  M.  Ly- 
man, John  Henry  Smith,  George  Teas- 
dale,  Heber  J.  Grant,  John  W.  Taylor, 
Marriner  W.  Merrill,  Anthon  H.  Lund, 
Matthias  F.  Cowley,  Abraham  O. 
Woodruff  and  Rudger  Clawson. 

The  counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  the  Twelve  Apostles  as 
Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church — John 
Smith. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  the  Seven- 
ties— Seymour  B.  Young,  C.  D.  Fjeld- 
sted,  B.  H.  Roberts,  George  Reynolds, 
Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells 
and  Joseph  W.  McMurrin. 

William  B.  Preston  as  presiding 
Bishop,  with  Robert  T.  Burton  as  his 
first  and  John  R.  Winder  as  his  second 
counselor. 

Franklin  D.  Richards  as  Church  his- 
torian and  general  Church  recorder, 
and  John  Jaques  and  Andrew  Jenson 
as  his  assistants. 

As  the  general  Church  Board  of 
Education — Lorenzo  Snow,  George  Q. 
Cannon,  Karl  G.  Maeser,  Willard 
Young,  Anthon  H.  Lund,  James  Sharp, 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  John  Nicholson  and 
George  H.  Brimhall. 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  body  of 
religious  worshippers    known    as  the 


Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints — Lorenzo  Snow. 

John  Nicholson  as  clerk  of  the  Gen- 
eral Conference. 

All  of  the   voting  was  unanimous. 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 

Individual  responsibility  of  the  Saints— Their 
aims  and  hopes— Self-sacrifice  a  l  at-is  ol  ex- 
altation 

To  stand  up  before  this  congregation 
and  attempt  to  speak  with  the  hope  of 
instructing  them,  requires,  it  seems  to 
me,  some  faith.  I  do  not  think  that 
any  man  who  understands  the  respon- 
sibilty  of  a  position  of  this  character 
would  attempt  to  do  it,  unless  he  could 
hope  to  have  the  assistance  of  the 
Spirit  of  God. 

The  servants  of  God  have  spoken  with 
great  plainness  and  a  large  amount  of 
instruction  has  been  given  in  this  con- 
ference, and  no  doubt  all  of  us  feel 
that  it  is  one  of  the  best  conferences 
we  have  ever  attended.  I  think  we  al- 
ways look  upon  the  present  conference 
as  the  best  conference,  and  I  hope  we 
will  be  justified  in  this  feeling  by  the 
spirit  we  shall  enjoy  during  the  re- 
mainder of  the  time. 

There  are  so  many  subjects  that  are 
intimately  connected  with  our  lives  and 
with  the  growth  and  development  of  the 
work,  that  a  man  cannot  be  at  a  loss 
for  something  to  say,  if  he  has  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord;  in  fact,  at  times  the 
abundance  of  subjects  makes  it  rather 
embarrassing,  and  it  requires  the  dic- 
tation of  the  Holy  Ghost  to  enable  us  to 
say  those  things  that  are  suited  to  the 
people  and  their  circumstances.  I  earn- 
estly desire,  in  the  remarks  that  I  shall 
make,  to  be  dictated  entirely  by  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord.  I  have  looked  at 
this  large  assembly,  and  I  have  thought 
what  a  vast  variety  of  thought  there 
must  be  in  the  breasts  of  those  present; 
what  hopes,  what  desires,  what  fears, 
what  anticipations  each  one  indulges 
in.  Life  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  pos- 
sesses a  seriousness  that  I  do  not  think 
other  people  feel,  because  of  our  knowl- 
edge concerning  our  existence  here,  why 
we  have  come  here,  and  what  lies  before 
us.  There  is  an  individuality  about 
the  members  of  this  Church  that  I  do 
not  think  can  be  found  elsewhere.  We 
feel  our  individual  responsibility.  We 
are  not  taught  to  rely  upon  priests,  or 


64 


GEJSERAL  CONFERENCE 


teachers,  or  apostles,  or  prophets;  but 
each  one  is  taught  to  be  responsible 
himself.  In  our  Church  the  wife  is  not 
taught  to  feel  that  she  is  divested  of 
responsibility,  and  that  it  rests  solely 
upon  her  husband.  Sons  and  daughters, 
as  soon  as  they  are  capable  of  compre- 
hending the  truth,  are  taught  their  re- 
sponsibility also.  In  our  Sunday  schools, 
in  our  associations,  and  in  all  the  gath- 
erings of  our  young  people,  as  far  as 
my  knowledge  extends,  this  feature  is 
kept  constantly  in  view.  Of  course, 
they  are  taught  to  look  for  guidance, 
but  not  to  rely  upon  anyone  to  do  that 
which  properly  devolves  upon  them  as 
living  souls  in  the  sight  of  God.  They 
are  impressed  with  their  individual  re- 
sponsibility. In  this  respect  I  think 
we  are  a  peculiar  people,  'different  from 
every  other  people  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth.  This  makes  us  a  serious  and 
thoughtful  people.  "We  ponder  careful- 
ly upon  our  lives,  and  we  consider  well 
our  course  of  action.  And  I  think  this 
characteristic  will  grow  among  us.  I 
hear  of  little  children  bearing  testimony 
in  the  Sunday  schools,  and  doing  so  by 
the  Spirit  of  God;  and  by  that  they  are 
made  to  feel  their  individual  responsi- 
bility before  the  Lord.  In  my  opin- 
ion, this  is  a  good  thing.  I  believe  our 
future  will  be  greatly  enchanced  by 
this  kind  of  training,  and  we  shall  have 
a  class  of  people  grow  up  among  us 
different  from  all  others.  It  may  be 
gradual — so  gradual  that  we  will 
scarcely  notice  its  growth;  but  the 
growth  will  take  place. 

In  connection  with  this,  the  question 
arises,  "What  are  the  aims  and  the 
hopes  of  the  Latter-day  Saints?  Why 
is  it,  it  may  be  asked,  that  the  "Mor- 
mon" people  are  willing  to  undergo 
such  privations,  such  persecutions  and 
such  banishments  as  they  have  endured 
in  the  past,  and  such  obloquoy,  hatred 
and  animosity  as  they  do  at  present? 
It  is  a  serious  question  for  the  world  to 
answer,  and  it  possesses  some  gravity 
for  us  as  members  of  the  Church  of 
Christ.  What  are  our  hopes?  If  I  were 
to  ask  this  congregation,  What  has 
caused  you  to  leave  your  homes  and 
your  friends,  notwithtstanding  their 
persuasions  or  their  threats,  and  cast 
your  lot  among  a  people  with  such  a 
bad  name  as  the  Latter-day  Saints 
have?  how  different  would  be  the  an- 


swers in  some  respects,  and  yet  how 
similar  in  other  respects.  The  Latter- 
day  Saints  have  been  animated  by 
hopes  that  no  other  people  possess.  Al- 
lusion was  made  the  other  day  to  the 
kind  of  heaven  we  anticipate.  There 
are  no  people  upon  the  earth  who  have 
such  ambitious  hopes  and  aims  as  the 
Latter-day  Saints  have.  Some  would 
call  them  irreverent.  But  the  Lord  has 
made  promises  to  this  people,  and  the 
Latter-day  Saints  believe  in  them.  On 
that  account  they  put  their  trust  in  the 
Lord,  and  are  willing  to  endure  all 
things  for  His  sake. 
■  I  will  read  a  little  from  one  of  the 
revelations  of  the  Lord.  Speaking  of 
those  who  receive  the  testimony  of 
Jesus,  and  who  overcome  by  faith  the 
Lord  says: 

"They  are  they  which  are  the  Church 
of  the  firstborn. 

"They  are  they  into  whose  hands  the 
Father  has  given  all  things." 

Now,  these  are  not  idle  words,  given 
merely  to  round  out  a  sentence;  but 
they  are  full  of  meaning. 

"They  are  they  who  are  Priests  and 
Kings,  who  have  received  of  His  ful- 
ness, and  of  His  glory, 

"And  are  Priests  of  the  Most  High, 
after  the  order  of  Melchisedek,  which 
was  after  the  order  of  Enoch,  which 
was  after  the  order  of  the  Only  Begot- 
ten Son; 

"Wherefore,  as  it  is  written,  they  are 
Gods,  even  the  sons  of  God. 

"Wherefore,  all  things  are  theirs, 
whether  life  or  death,  or  things  present, 
or  things  to  come,  all  are  theirs,  and 
they  are  Christ's,  and  Christ  is  God's." 
—Section  76:  pars.  54-59. 

Yesterday  Brother  Teasdale  quoted 
something  from  section  84,  which  I  wish 
to  emphasize.   These  are  the  words: 

"And  also  all  they  who  receive  this 
Priesthood,  receiveth  me,  saith  the 
Lord; 

"For  he  that  receiveth  my  servants, 
receiveth  me; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth 
my  Father; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  my  Father, 
receiveth  my  Father's  kingdom;  there- 
fore all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be 
given  unto  him." 

Notice  the  last  clause,  "All  that  my 
Father  hath" — not  a  part,  but  "all  that 
my  Father  hath  shall  be  given  unto 
him."  That  language  admits  of  no 
mistake.  It  corresponds  with  the  other 
language  that  I  have  read  in  your  hear- 
ing. It  also  corresponds  with  what  the 
Lord  says  in  section  93: 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


65 


"I  give  unto  you  these  sayings  that 
ye  may  understand  and  know  how  to 
worship;  and  know  what  you 
worship;  that  you  may  come  unto  the 
Father  in  my  name,  and  in  due  time 
receive  of  His  fulness; 

"For  if  you  keep  my  commandments 
you  shall  receive  of  His  fulness,  and  be 
glorified  in  me  as  I  am  in  the  Father; 
therefore,  I  say  unto  you,  you  shall  re- 
ceive grace  for  grace." 

This  same  revelation  goes  on  to  say: 

"The  Spirit  of  truth  is  of  God.  I  am 
the  Spirit  of  truth,  and  John  bore  rec- 
ord of  me,  saying,  He  receiveth  a  full- 
ness of  truth,  yea,  even  of  all  truth, 

"And  no  man  receiveth  a  fullness  un- 
less he  keepeth  his  commandments. 

"He  that  keepeth  his  commandments 
receiveth  truth  and  light,  until  he  is 
glorified  in  truth  and  knoweth  all 
things." 

Time  will  not  admit  of  my  reading 
any  more  passages,  but  these  are  suffi- 
ciently plain  to  reveal  to  us  that  which 
God  has  in  contemplation  for  His 
faithful  children.  The  Latter-day 
Saints  are  promised,  if  they  are  faith- 
ful, that  they  shall  receive  the  fullness, 
as  Jesus  received  it:  and  Jesus  received 
it  as  the  Father  received  it.  In  the 
words  of  Paul,  they  become  heirs  of 
God  and  joint  heirs  with  Jesus  Christ. 
There  is  nothing  that  the  Savior  has  at- 
tained unto  that  God's  faithful  children 
are  not  promised.  They  are  promised 
the  same  blessings,  the  same  power, 
the  same  authority,  the  same  gifts, 
the  same  graces.  I  know  that 
we  are  apt  to  think  that  heaven 
is  a  sort  of  spiritual  place.  It 
Is  spiritual;  but  God  our  Eternal  Fa- 
ther is  a  being  of  power.  He  controls 
the  earth  and  the  inhabitants  thereof; 
He  controls  the  elements  of  the  earth; 
and  we  are  promised  that  we  shall  be 
sharers  with  Him.  He  will  give  us  an 
equal  interest  in  all  this  power  and 
authority.  What  is  more  desirable  to 
roan,  generally  speaking,  than  to  wield 
power?  Mankind  aim  for  it.  To  what 
lengths  will  ambitious  men  go  to  wield 
power,  to  sit  upon  thrones  and  to  wield 
a  sceptre  of  authority!  History  tells 
us  that  men  have  been  willing  to  wade 
through  seas  of  blood  to  gratify  this 
ambition.  Now,  this  ambition  can  be 
gratified  righteously  by  keeping  the 
commandments  of  God;  and  a  righteous 
man  will  exercise  righteous  authority. 
That  is  the  object  God  had  in  view  in 
sending  us  here.  Through  faithfully 
keeping  His  commandments  we  may  at- 


tain unto  power— not  illegitimate  power, 
but  lawful  power— and  wield  it  for  our 
own  exaltation  and  for  the  exaltation 
of  other  human  beings.  It  is  God's  de- 
sign to  make  us  priests  and  kings;  not 
to  have  an  empty  title,  not  to  sit  upon 
thrones  without  power,  but  to  be  actu- 
ally and  really  priests  and  kings.  The 
promise  is  that  all  things  that  He  hath 
shall  be  given  unto  us.  We  will  be 
His  heirs;  we  will  be  (if  I  may  use  the 
term  without  irreverence)  co-partners 
with  Him  in  all  this  power  and  authori- 
ty. I  do  not  know  whether  all  the 
Latter-day  Saints  grasp  this  idea.  It 
is  important  that  we  should. 

We  heard  some  talk  this  morning  up- 
on the  principle  of  tithing.  People  won- 
der how  it  is  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
pay  their  tithing.  Some  think  it  must 
swell  the  coffers  of  the  Church  and 
fatten  the  leaders.  But  they  would  not 
wonder  if  they  understood  the  princi- 
ple. Brother  Brigham  Young  told  us 
this  morning  that  the  law  of  tithing 
was  an  inferior  law.  It  is.  The  law 
of  consecration  is  a  higher  law,  and 
it  was  revealed  to  us,  but  we  were  not 
perpared  to  receive  and  act  upon  it. 
The  result  is,  we  are  not  doing  what 
we  ought  to  in  this  respect.  The  Lord 
requires  from  us  consecration.  Why 
does  He  ask  you  and  me  to  conse- 
crate all  we  have  and  hold  it  subject 
to  His  will?  If  He  is  going  to  take  us 
into  partnership  He  wants  to  know  in 
the  first  place  whether  we  will  be  will- 
ing to  'do  as  He  wants  us  and  to  share 
all  that  we  have  with  Him.  I  was 
pleased  with  a  little  incident  that  oc- 
curred in  my  own  family  the  other  day. 
I  gave  two  of  my  little  children  some 
money,  and  after  a  while  something 
arose  that  caused  me  to  need  some 
money,  and  their  mother  said  to  these 
children,  "Your  father  needs  some 
money."  The  children  went  and  got 
their  banks,  and  said,  "Here,  father, 
you  can  have  all  I  have  in  this  bank." 
I  was  greatly  delighted  with  the  spirit 
of  the  children.  I  did  not  say  anything, 
but  I  thought  to  myself,  "That  illus- 
trates the  principles  that  Father  in  hea- 
ven is  trying  to  teach  us,  His  children. 
He  gives  us  something,  and  when  He 
asks  for  anything  He  wants  us  to  be 
just  as  liberal  as  He  has  been  in  giv- 
ing it."  Those  who  have  faith  and  who 
rise  to  the  comprehension  of  the  digni- 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ty  and  exaltation  that  God  intends  to 
bestow  upon  us,  will  mot  hesitate  to 
give  everything  they  have  to  the  Lord, 
but  it  requires  faith.  The  Lord  might 
require  us  to  lay  down  our  lives.  That 
would  require  faith,  would  it  not?  Yes. 
But  what  is  the  promise?  That  we  shall 
have  eternal  life  and  be  exalted  in  His 
presence.  Therefore,  those  who  wish  to 
attain  to  this  exaltation  must  cherish 
sublimity  of  feeling,  sublimity  of  self- 
sacrifice.  They  must  not  only  be  will- 
ing to  pay  their  tithing,  but  be  willing 
to  give  everything  they  have  got  on 
the  earth — wives  and  children,  and 
everything  else.  If  I  cannot  give  up  my 
wife  and  all  my  children,  if  required, — 
if  I  cannot  lay  down  my  life,  if  nec- 
essary, God  help  me!  I  do  not  know 
what  I  might  do,  but  God  help  me  to 
do  it  if  the  test  ever  comes.  But  if  I 
am  not  willing  to  do  this,  I  cannot  hope 
to  attain  to  that  exaltation  and  re- 
ceive that  fullness  which  the  Lord  has 
promised  unto  us,  if  we  are  faithful. 

Therefore,  shall  we  hesitate  about 
tithing?  Shall  we  hesitate  about  any- 
thing else,  with  such  objects  in  view 
and  with  such  righteous  ambition  as 
God  has  implanted  in  our  hearts?  No, 
we  cannot  hesitate  if  we  have  faith. 
The  world  say:  "Oh,  you  are  led  by 
priests,  who  are  dominating  you  and 
tyrannizing  over  vou,  and  using  you  for 
their  own  purposes."  But  what  has 
God  said?  what  has  He  promised  to  us? 
That  is  the  question  for  us  to  ask.  We 
must  not  look  at  what  the  world  says; 
it  is  what  God  says  that  we  must  act 
upon.  And  I  say  to  you  this  day,  in  the 
presence  of  God  and  the  holy  angels 
and  of  this  assembly,  if  we  expect  to 
attain  the  fulfillment  of  the  promises 
God  has  made  to  us,  we  must  be  self- 
sacrificing.  There  is  no  sacrifice  that 
God  can  ask  of  us,  or  His  servants 
whom  He  has  chosen  to  lead  us,  that 
we  should  hesitate  about  making.  In 
one  sense  of  the  word,  it  is  no  sacrifice. 
We  may  call  it  so,  because  it  comes  in 
contact  with  our  selfishness  and  our  un- 
belief; but  it  ought  not  to  come  in  con- 
tact with  our  faith.  The  infidel  says, 
'What  a  monster  God  was  to  ask  Ab- 
raham to  offer  up  his  only  son  as  a  sac- 
rifice— to  ask  him  to  break  a  law  which 
He  Himself  had  given  to  man,  wherein 
He  said,  Thou  shalt  not  kill."  That  law 
was  embodied  in  the  ten  command- 
ments, but  it  dated  back  to  the  early 


days  of  man  upon  the  earth.  Human 
life  was  sacred;  God  had  made  it  so. 
He  had  made  murder  the  worst  crime 
that  could  be  committed  by  man 
against  his  fellow  man.  The  curse 
that  He  pronounced  upon  Cain  is  felt 
by  his  descendants  to  this  day,  so 
grievious  was  his  sin  in  the  sight  of 
God.  But  that  God  who  gave  this  com- 
mand to  His  children  on  earth  required 
His  servant  Abraham  to  take  his  son, 
go  into  a  high  mountain,  and  there  of- 
fer him  up  as  a  sacrifice.  At  the  same 
time  it  was  contrary  to  the  law  of  God 
to  offer  human  sacrifice.  God  had  pro- 
hibited it.  It  was  a  grievious  sin  among 
the  idolatrous  nations.  Abraham's  own 
kindred  indulged  in  that  wicked  prac- 
tice. He  tells  in  his  record  that  vir- 
gins were  sacrificed  on  altars  in  the 
land  of  his  nativity,  and  he  himself 
was  bound  on  an  altar  to  be  sacrificed, 
his  kindred  doubtless  submitting  to  it. 
but  an  angel  of  God  delivered  him.  But 
here  comes  the  command  of  God  to  this 
man  who  has  been  taught  so  scrupu- 
lously about  the  sinfulness  of  murder 
and  human  sacrifice,  to  do  these  very 
things.  Now,  why  did  the  Lord  ask 
such  things  of  Abraham?  Because, 
knowing  what  his  future  would  be  and 
that  he  would  be  the  father  of  an  in- 
numerable posterity,  he  was  determined 
to  test  him.  God  did  not  do  this  for 
His  own  sake;  for  He  knew  by  His 
foreknowledge  what  Abraham  would 
do;  but  the  purpose  was  to  impress  up- 
on Abraham  a  lesson,  and  to  enable 
him  to  attain  unto  knowledge  that  he 
could  not  obtain  in  any  other  way. 
That  is  why  God  tries  all  of  us.  It  is 
mot  for  His  own  knowledge;  for  He 
knows  all  things  beforehand.  He 
knows  all  your  lives  and  everything 
you  will  do.  But  He  tries  us  for  our 
own  good,  that  we  may  know  ourselves; 
for  it  is  most  important  that  a  man 
should  know  himself.  He  required 
Abraham  to  submit  to  this  trial  because 
He  intended  to  give  him  glory,  exalta- 
tion and  honor;  He  intended  to  make 
him  a  king  and  a  priest,  to  share  with 
Himself  the  glory,  power  and  dominion 
which  He  exercised.  And  was  this 
trial  any  more  than  God  Himself  had 
passed  through?  God  the  Eternal  Fa- 
ther gave  His  Only  Begotten  Son  to 
die  for  us;  and  He  wanted  to  see  whe- 
ther Abraham  was  as  willing  to  sacri- 
fice his  son  of  promise  as  He  Himself 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  P.  SMITH. 


67 


was  to  sacrifice  His  well  beloved,  His 
first  bom,  Jesus  Christ.  And  what  of 
Isaac?  Josephus  tells  us  that  Isaac 
was  old  enough  to  carry  the  wood  for 
the  sacrifice;  and  after  his  father  had 
told  him  what  the  Lord  wanted,  Isaac, 
in  the  spirit  of  submission  that  such  a 
.  son  had  for  such  a  father,  said  to  him, 
"If  the  Lord  bad  not  commanded  you 
to  do  this,  father,  I  would  have  been 
willing  to  have  done  whatever  you  re- 
quired of  me."  In  this  Isaac  exhibited 
a  spirit  akin  to  that  manifested  by 
the  Lord  Jesus;  and  Abraham  showed  a 
willingness  akin  to  that  exhibited  by 
the  Father  in  offering  up  His  Only  Be- 
gotten Son  for  the  rest  of  His  brethren 
and  sisters. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  do  you  see 
why  G-od  requires  these  things  at  our 
hands?  Can  you  comprehend  why  we 
are  asked  to  love  our  neighbor  as  we  do 
ourselves?  Is  there  any  sacrifice  that 
we  should  not  be  willing  to  make? 
Think  of  the  unselfishness  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior!  He  came  and  died  for  all 
of  us.  He  loved  His  neighbor  as  He 
did  himself.  He  loved  the  offspring  of 
His  Father  as  He  did  himself.  We 
must  be  like  Him,  or  we  cannot  sit 
down  with  Him  in  the  kingdom  of  our 
Father.  We  must  be  willing  to  make 
every  sacrifice  necessary  for  the  work 
of  God.  But  in  the  first  place  we  must 
get  faith;  for  without  faith  it  is  impos- 
sible to  please  God  and  to  make  these 
sacrifices.  Without  faith  our  courage 
fails  and  we  are  filled  with  doubt;  but 
with  unflinching  faith  in  God  and  in 
His  willingness  and  power  to  save  us, 
we  can  accomplish  all  the  Lord  requires 
at  our  hands.  God  bless  you,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

The  aggregate  of  individual  contributions  to  the 
Church  accomplishes  great  good— Tithing  a 
test  of  obedience— The  Lord  requires  the 
willing  mind. 

It  is  with  a  feeling  of  great  depend- 
ence uopn  the  Spirit  that  I  arise  to 
speak.  I  feel  extremely  grateful  for 
the  outpouring  of  the  good  Spirit  which 
has  accompanied  all  the  speaking  that 
we  have  had  throughout  this  Confer- 
ence; and  I  regret  that  all  the  congre- 
gation did  not  hear  the  most  excellent 


discourse  of  President  Franklin  D. 
Richards  this  morning;  I  remarked  to 
him  when  he  sat  down  that  I  thought  I 
never  heard  him  speak  better,  but  I 
was  sure  that  half  the  congregation 
had  not  heard  what  he  had  said.  It  is 
a  difficult  thing  to  make  so  vast  an  as- 
sembly hear,  and  especially  is  this  the 
case  when  there  is  a  feeling  of  uneasi- 
ness among  the  people  and  more  or  less 
moving  about.  Brother  C.  J.  Thomas 
can  be  seen  here  frequently  with  a 
company  of  people  up  in  the  other  end 
of  the  gallery,  and  he  will  rub  his  coat 
sleeve  and  ask  them  at  the  other  end 
if  they  can  hear  the  sound,  and  they 
say  yes.  Then  he  will  take  a  pin  and 
drop  it  upon  a  table,  and  ask  if  they 
can  hear  that,  and  they  say  yes.  It  is 
the  wonderful  acoustic  properties  of 
this  house  that  actually  makes  it  so 
difficult,  in  one  respect,  to  make  the 
people  hear  when  there  are  so  many  to- 
gether as  are  here  today,  because  every 
little  sound  tends  to  confuse  the  voice 
of  the  speaker. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  wonderful 
attendance  on  the  part  of  the  people 
during  this  Conference.  It  shows  they 
are  awake,  and  interested  in  the  cause 
of  Zion.  I  am  sure  that  all  the  people 
who  have  heard  the  instructions  which 
have  been  given  must  be  well  pleased 
and  satisfied. 

I  do  not  expect  to  advance  a  single 
thought  in  relation  to  the  principle  of 
tithing  that  has  not  already 
been  covered,  but  I  desire 
to  call  your  attention  to  one  thing 
which  seems  to  me  to  be  a  prominent 
feature  in  tithepaying.  It  is  not  so 
much  the  means  that  we  give  into  the 
storehouse  of  the  Lord;  for  the  Lord 
has  plenty  for  Himself.  The  earth  is 
His,  and  the  fulness  thereof.  But  it 
is  a  very  important  thing  that  we  look 
at  the  necessities  of  the  poor  and  con- 
sider the  duty  of  carrying  on  the  work 
of  the  Lord  in  all  its  branches.  Every 
little  that  we  contribute  toward  this 
end  helps  the  cause  just  that  little; 
and  so  the  little  that  each  does  is  of 
great  importance  to  the  cause  of  Zion. 
When  all  the  people  do  a  little,  it  ag- 
gregates a  great  deal,  and  there  is 
abundance  in  the  storehouse  for  the 
feeding  of  the  poor,  and  for  helping  out 
in  the  proclamation  of  the  Gospel  to 
the  nations  of  the  earth.   For  many  of 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  Elders  who  are  sent  out  to  preach 
the  Gospel  have  not  means  wherewith 
to  provide  for  their  families  altogether, 
and  the  Church  is  called  upon  frequent- 
ly to  assist.  Then,  the  Church  is  called 
upon  for  means  to  pay  for  the  return 
fare  of  almost  every  missionary  from 
his  field  of  labor.  Sometimes  an  Elder 
dies  abroad,  and  his  remains  have  to 
be  brought  home,  the  family  is  not  able 
to  do  it,  so  the  Church  has  to  bear  the 
expense.  When  you  take  into  consider- 
ation the  hundreds  of  Elders  that  are 
out  in  the  missionary  field  all  the 
timie,  and  the  fact  that  brethren  are 
going  and  returning  continuously,  the 
expense  connected  with  this  matter 
amounts  to  a  very  large  sum  during  the 
year.  So  that  every  little  helps.  Every- 
man's mite  adds  to  the  good  cause. 

But  there  is  a  principle  connected 
with  tithepaying  which,  in  my  judg- 
ment, is  above  and  beyond  this,  and 
that  is  the  principle  of  obedience.  I  be- 
lieve the  Lord  designs  in 
this  principle  to  test  the  obed- 
ience of  the  people.  When  we 
come  to  stand  before  the  bar  of  God, 
to  be  judged  out  of  the  things  which 
are  written  in  the  books,  we  may  find 
a  difference  between  those  things  which 
are  written  in  the  books  here  and  the 
things  which  are  written  in  the '  books 
there.  We  can  see  this  now.  Who 
knows  whether  or  not  I  pay  my  tithing? 
Do  not  the  books  show  that  I  am  a 
tithepayer?  Certainly,  they  do;  for  all 
that  I  pay  is  credited  to  me  on  the  tith- 
ing books  of  the  Church.  I  think  our 
system  of  bookkeeping  in  relation  to 
the  tithes  of  the  people  is  so  perfect 
that  every  man  Who  has  ever  paid 
tithing  may  go  to  the  books  and  find 
there  his  credit.  But  the  books  here  do 
not  pretend  to  keep  an  account  of  the 
tithing  you  owe  to  God.  We  do  not 
keep  an  account  of  that  which  you 
should  pay;  we  simply  keep  an  account 
of  that  which  you  do  pay.  But  there 
is  One  above  us  who  knows;  and  there 
may  be  a  system  of  keeping  accounts 
there  wherein  it  will  be  known  just 
what  every  man  should  pay  to  be  hon- 
est with  himself  and  the  Lord.  If  that 
be  so,  when  we  come  to  be  judged  out 
of  the  things  which  are  written  in  the 
books,  the  difference  between  that 
which  we  have  paid  and  that  which  we 
should  have  paid  will  appear  in  the 


books,  and  they  will  show  where  we 
have  been  deficient  in  our  duty. 

Now,  if  we  are  not  faithful  to  this 
law,  what  evidence  have  we  that  we 
shall  be  faithful  in  other  things?  The 
Lord  instituted  it  as  a  substitute,  be- 
cause of  our  lack  of  faith,  for  the 
higher  law  of  consecration,  in  which 
the  Lord  requires  not  only  all  that  we 
have,  but  our  hearts  also;  and  by  this 
substitute  He  designs  to  prove  us, 
to  see  Whether  we  will  be  obedient  or 
not.  I  perceive  in  this  principle  some- 
thing that  is  of  greater  worth  to  me 
than  all  the  substance  that  I  put  into 
the  storehouse  of  the  Lord  as  tithing. 
That  may  be  used  wisely  or.  unwisely, 
so  far  as  I  know.  What  have  I  to  do 
with  that?  It  matters  not  to  me  what 
is  done  with  it.  It  is  my  duty 
to  obey  the  law  that  God  has 
given.  This  is  exemplified  in  the 
remarkable  instance  referred  to 
by  President  Cannon — that  of  requiring 
Abraham  to  offer  his  son,  Isaac.  Did 
God  ask  him  to  do>  this  because  he 
delighted  in  wringing  the  heart  of  His 
servant  and  causing  him  anguish?  Noit 
at  all.  The  Lord  has  no  delight  in  that. 
But  He  wanted  to  put  His  servant  to 
the  test,  to  know  whether  he  was  will- 
ing to  sacrifice  himself  or  not  in  obed- 
ience to  the  requirement  of  heaven. 
That  is  what  God  wants  in  relation  to 
this  principle  of  tithing;  He  wants  to 
know  whether  we  will  do  our  duty  or 
not,  and  whether  we  will  be  honest  or 
dishonest  with  Him.  Every  man  is  left 
to  be  his  own  judge  as  to  what  he  calls 
his  tithing,  and  there  is  a  great  var- 
iety of  opinion  as  to  what  a  tithing  is. 
A  man  who  works  for  wages,  and  de- 
votes his  whole  time  to  the  service  of 
his  employer,  and  he  receives  $1,000  or 
$2,000  a  year  for  his  salary,  it  is  an  easy 
matter  for  him  to  tell  how  much  he 
owes  for  tithing.  If  I  earned  $2,000  a 
year,  I  should  know  that  my  tithing 
was  just  one-tenth  of  that.  And  I  would 
not  take  out  what  it  had  cost  me  to 
feed  and  clothe  myself  and  to  pay  all 
the  expenses  necessary  to  the  mainten- 
ance of  my  family,  before  I  reckoned 
with  the  Lord  as  to  what  belonged  to 
Him.  Two  hundred  dollars  would  be 
my  honest  tithing,  would  it  not?  That 
is  the  way  I  look  at  it.  Then,  if  a 
farmer  raises  2,000  bushels  of  wheat  as 
the  result  of  his  year's  labor,  how  many 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F  SMI1 B. 


69 


bushels  should  he  pay  for  tithing? 
Well,  some  people  will  go  straightway 
to  dickering  with  the  Lord.  They  will 
say  they  hired  a  man  so  and  so,  and 
his  wages  must  be  taken  out;  that  they 
had  to  pay  such  and  such  expenses,  and 
this  cost  and  that  cost;  and  they  reck- 
on out  all  their  expenses,  and  tithe  the 
balance.  If  a  man  earns  $1,000,  and 
it  has  cost  him  $600  to  live,  he  pays 
tithing  on  the  remaining  $400.  He  con- 
siders that  his  net  income,  and  he  reck- 
ons with  the  Lord  on  that  basis.  Well, 
a  great  many  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
reckon  with  God  in  just  that  way. 

Now,  you  are  at  liberty  to  do  as  you 
please  in  regard  to  this  matter.  You 
can  choose  which  ever  course  you  wish. 
But  let  me  say  to  you  that  as  we  meas- 
ure out  so  will  it  be  measured  back  unto 
us  again.  When  we  go  to  dickering 
with  the  Lord,  probably  He  will  dicker 
with  us;  and  if  He  undertakes  to  do  so, 
we  shall  get  the  worst  of  it.  I  think 
we  had  better  be  honest  with  the  Lord, 
and  deal  justly  and  liberally  with  Him ; 
for.  as  it  is  said  in  the  scriptures,  the 
liberal  man  deviseth  liberal  things,  and 
by  his  liberality  shall  he  stand.  My  ex- 
perience in  my  childhood  was  that 
when  the  widow  paid  one-tenth  of 
every  bushel  of  potatoes,  of  wheat,  of 
oats.of  barley;  when  she  paid  the  tenth 
chicken,  or  egg,  the  tenth  calf,  the 
tenth  colt,  the  tenth  pound  of  beef, 
or  pork— when  she  did  this  she  was 
blessed,  and  I  know  it.  God  opened  up 
her  way,  and  multiplied  blessings  upon 
her;  and  though  a  widow,  driven  into 
the  wilderness  with  a  large  family,  and 
without  means  to  take  care  of  them, 
she  never  had  to  ask  for  or  receive 
help  from  the  Church  to  feed  and 
clothe  her  or  her  children.  The  Lord 
provided  for  her,  because  she  put  her 
trust  in  Him  and  she  was  obedient  to 
His  law.  I  am  a  witness  to  that.  And 
the  Lord  will  provide  for  other  widows 
in  the  same  way.  He  will  provide  for 
all  His  people  according  as  they  put 
their  trust  in  Him  and  are  faithful  and 
obedient.  "Obedience  is  better  than 
sacrifice,  and  to  hearken  than  the  fat 
of  rams."  It  is  the  heart  and  the  wil- 
ling mind  that  the  Lord  requires  of  His 
people,  and  not  so  much  their  sub- 
stance. He  does  not  need  our  obedi- 
ence.   But  we  need  to  be  obedient;  for 


it  is  through  obedience  that  we  will  re- 
ceive the  reward. 

So  I  come  to  the  conclusion  that  the 
principal  thing  about  tithe  paying  is 
obedience  to  the  law,  and  that  more 
good  will  come  to  us  through  that  obe- 
dience  than    to   anybody   else.  We 
may      be      worth      our      tens  of 
thousands,  and  pay  an  honest  tithing 
on  our  income,  making  our  tithing  a 
large  amount;  yet  the  good  that  will 
come  to  ourselves  by  being  obedient 
to  the  law  of  God  will  be  far  greater 
in  the  end  than  the  good  which  our 
substance  may  do  to  the  poor.  He 
is  more  blessed  who  giveth  alms  than 
is  he  who  receiveth  them.     The  trou- 
ble is,  when  a  man  becomes  rich  he 
at  once  begins  to  feel  too  poor  to  be 
obedient  to  the  laws  of  God.  Riches 
make  men  poor  when  it  comes  to  deal- 
ing with  the  Almighty.     The  poor  man 
can  easily  pay  his  tithing    and  con- 
tribute of  his  little  substance  for  the 
benefit  of  the  needy;  but  if  he  becomes 
a  millionaire,  or  anything  like  it,  then 
his  heart  begins  to  narrow  up.  The 
result  is,  he  deprives  himself  of  the 
opportunity  of  receiving  greater  mani- 
festations of  the  kindness  and  mercy 
of  God  unto  him,  which  he  could  re- 
ceive  through   the   increased  amount 
of  good  he  could  do  with  his  enlarged 
means.  Obedience  is  what  the  Almighty 
requires.     It  was    obedience    that  He 
required  of  Abraham.    I  am  speaking 
now  of  obedience  to  God,  and  not  to 
man;  and  I  am  at  the  defiance  of  any 
man  to  prove  that  obedience  to  God, 
even  in  the  paying  of  tithing,  is  not 
better  than  disobedience — better   to  the 
man  himself,  and  better  to  the  whole 
people.     If  a  man  is  obedient  to  this 
law  of  tithing,  he  is  entitled  to  the 
blessing  of  God  himself  and,    so  far 
as  he  is  concerned,  there  are  means  in 
the  storehouse  of  the  Lord  for  the  feed- 
ing of  the  poor,  for  the  sending  of  the 
Gospel  abroad,  for  the  building  of  tem- 
ples, and  for  the  accomplishment  of  His 
purposes;  but  if  he  is  not  obedient  to 
this  law,  then  there  is  nothing  there, 
and  he  himself  is  deprived  of  the  bless- 
ing that  the  Lord  would  otherwise  give 
to  him.     I  do  not  believe  in  obeying 
man,  only  when  my  judgment  or  the 
inspiration    of    the  Almighty  tells  me 
that  obedience  to  that  man  will  be  wise 


GENERAL  CONEEREALE. 


70 

nnrt  eood  In  other  words,  I  am  not  a  in  the  promises  of  the  Almighty  and 
believer  in  blind  obedience.  I  think  those 
who  know  me  can  bear  record  to 
my  testimony  that  I  never  yet  obeyed 
any  man,  nor  have  I  to  my  knowledge 
obeyed  God,  blindly.  What  I  have  done 
I  have  done  with  my  eyes  open.  I  have 
done  it  willingly,  because  I  have  be- 
lieved or  have  known  it  to  be  good. 
That  is  why  I  obey  the  counsels  of  the 
servants  of  God,  and  why  I  obey  His 
law  I  know  it  is  pleasing  in  the  sight 
of  the  Lord  for  me  to  do  this,  and  I  re- 
ceive benefit  thereby. 

Nowadays,  if  President  Snow  or 
somebody  else  gives  counsel  to  some  of 
our  brethren,  if  it  does  not  suit  them 
exactly  they  will  begin  to  whine  about 
it,  and  shed  great  crocodile  tears,  per- 
haps. I  have  heard  of  men  shedding 
tears  because  they  had  received  coun- 
sel from  their  brethren!  And  what  is 
more,  the  men  that  shed  tears  and 
mourn  over  having  received  a  little 
counsel,  are  the  kind  that  do  not  carry 
it  out;  or,  if  they  do,  they  (tell  why  they 
did  it— making  somebody  else  responsi- 
ble for  their  acts.  I  say,  out  upon  such 
obedience  as  that!  I  do  not  believe  in 
that  kind  at  all. 

I  know  that  obedience  to  the  Lord  is 
a  good  thing.  I  know  this  also,  that  if 
Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  had  not 
been  absolutely  obedient  to  the  re- 
quirements of  His  Father,  He  would 
have  ceased  to  be  the  Savior  of  the 
w~orld,  for  He  could  not  have  accom- 
plished the  mission  He  came  to  fulfill. 

If  Abraham  had  not  been  obedient,  even 

to  the  sacrificing  of  his  own  son,  he 

would  not  be  today  the  father  of  the 

faithful,  and  the  promise  made  to  him 

that  his  seed  should  have  no  end  would 

havi:  been  revoked.  The  same  with  re- 
gard to  Job,  who  was  tried  to  the  core. 

It  was  said,  "put  forth  thy  hand  now 

and  touch  all  that  he  hath,  and  he  will 

curse  thee  to  thy  face."  But  the  Lord 

knew    he  would  not,  and  he  said  to 

Satan,  "Behold,  he  is  in  thy  hand;  but 

save  his  life."  Satan  laid  his  hand  up- 
on his  property,  upon  his  sons  and  his 

daughters,    and    upon  his  own  body, 

and  Job  was  brought  down  into  the 

dust  because  of  the  afflictions  that  fell 

upon   him;    and  yet  he  was   true  to 

God!    It  was  his  love  of  God,  his  faith 


his  obedience  to  his  Father  that  made 
him  the  example  of  the  world.  His 
name  has  come  down  and  will  go  down 
to  the  end  of  time  as  an  example  to 
mankind  of  faith  in  God.  When  up- 
braided and  told  to  curse  God  and  die, 
Job  turned  and  said,  "Naked  came  I 
out  of  my  mother's  womb,  and  naked 
shall  I  return  thither:  the  Lord  gave, 
and  the  Lord  hath  taken  away;  blessed 
be  the  name  of  the  Lord."  Joseph 
the  prophet  was  tried  to  the  core,  and 
he  proved  true  unto  death.  So  with 
others  of  his  brethren;  they  were  per- 
secuted, they  were  hounded,  they  were 
maligned,  and  every  species  of  igno- 
miny heaped  upon  them,  and  finally 
they  were  put  to  death  in  cold  blood; 
and  yet  they  were  true  unto  death. 
That  is  what  God  requires  at  our  hands. 
He  said,  "I  will  try  you  even  unto 
death,  to  see  if  you  are  worthy  of  the 
blessings  I  have  in  store  for  you."  If 
you  shrink  from  obedience  to  God,  by 
which  you  become  heirs  of  God  and 
joint  heirs  with  Jesus  Christ — as  Presi- 
dent Cannon  said,  "partners  with  Him 
in  all  that  He  possesses" — how  can  you 
expect  to  obtain  eternal  life  and  to 
become  a  partner  with  Him?  If  we  are 
not  true  to  these  things,  we  are  not 
worthy  of  them.  May  God  bless  us, 
therefore,  and  help  us  to  be  worthy  of 
all  that  has  been  promised  unto  us 
through  the  keys  and  authority  of  the 
holy  priesthood,  that  we  may  come  up 
in  the  morning  of  the  resurrection  en- 
titled to  all  the  blessings  that  have  been 
sealed  upon  us.  This  is  my  prayer  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 
The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

Our  God,  we  raise  to  Thee 
Thanks  for  Thy  blessings  free, 
We  here  enjoy; 
In  this  far  distant  land, 
A  true  and  faithful  band 
Led  hither  by  Thy  hand, 
Would  sing  for  joy. 


Benediction 
Snow. 


by    President  Lorenzo 


Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 
The  stenographic  work  in  taking  the 
account  of  the  proceedings  was  done 
by  Arthur  Winter  and  E.  H.  Holt. 

JOHN  NICHOLSON, 
Clerk  of  Conference. 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


Its  Semi-Annual   General  Conference. 


The  semi-annual  conference  of  the 
Sunday  schools  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held 
on  Sunday  evening-,  April  9th,  1899, 
at  7  o'clock. 

There  were  present  the  general  super- 
intendency,  officers  and  members  of  the 
Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  Board 
and  aids,  a  number  of  Apostles,  presi- 
dents of  Stakes  and  Bishops,  and  the 
Tabernacle  was  well  filled  with  Sunday 
school  workers. 

General  Superintendent  George  Q. 
Cannon  presided. 

The  Tabernacle  choir,  under  direc- 
tion of  Prof,  Evan  Stephens,  sang 
"Lord  Thou  wilt  hear  me  when  I  pray." 
Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  John  M. 
Mills.  The  choir  sang  "Come,  dearest 
Lord." 

Secretary  George  D.  Pyper  called  the 
roll  which  was  responded  to  by  repre- 
sentatives from  twenty-seven  Stakes. 
The  secretary  also  read  a  portion  of  the 
general  annual  statistical  report  of  the 
Sunday  schools  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
for  1898  showing:  Total  number  of  Sun- 
day schools,  1,019;  male  officers  and 
teachers,  7,524;  female  officers  and 
teachers,  5,524;  total  officers  and  teach- 
ers, 13,048;  average  attendance  of  offi- 
cers and  teachers,  8,472;  male  pupils, 
50,862;  females,  52,524;  total  number  of 
pupils,  103,386;  Sunday  school  mission- 
aries not  enrolled,  269;  total  officers, 
teachers,  pupils  and  missionaries,  116,- 
703;  cash  on  hand  and  collected  during 
the  year,  $17,264.33;  disbursed,  13,278.12; 
on  hand,  $3,986.21. 

The  report  was  approved  and  filed. 

General  Superintendent  George  Q. 
Cannon  said: 

"I  feel  very  much  gratified  at  this 
report,  as  I  think  you  all  do.  "We  have 
now,  as  you  have  heard,  103,000  pupils; 
this  is  a  very  fine  showing;  gone  past 


the  hundred  thousand  mark,  and  that 
has  been  gained  during  the  last  year." 

The  secretary  then  presented  the  gen- 
ral  Sunday  school  authorities,  who 
were  unanimously  sustained  as  fol- 
lows: 

General  Superintendent  Qeorge  Q. 
Cannon:  second  assistant  general  su- 
perintendent, Karl  G.  Maeser;  general 
secretary,  George  D.  Pyper;  general 
treasurer,  George  Reynolds;  sten- 
ographer, Leo  Hunsaker. 

Members  of  Deseret  Sunday  School 
Union  Board:  George  Q.  Cannon,  Karl 
G.  Maeser,  George  Reynolds,  Thomas  C. 
Griggs,  Joseph  W.  Summerhays,  Levi 
W.  Richards,  Francis  M.  Lyman,  Heber 
J.  Grant,  Joseph  M.  Tanner,  George 
Teasdale,  Hugh  J.  Cannon,  Andrew 
Kimball,  Joseph  P.  Smith,  John  W. 
Taylor. 

Aids  to  the  General  Board:  L.  John 
Nuttall,  James  W.  Ure,  John  F.  Ben- 
nett, John  M.  Mills,  William  B.  Dougan, 
William  D.  Owen,  Seymour  B.  Young, 
Christian  D.  Fjeldsted. 

General  Treasurer  George  Reynolds 
reported  that  he  had  received  from 
nickel  donations  for  1898,  the  sum  of 
$3,111.62,  an  increase  of  nearly  eight  per 
cent  over  1897. 

Elder  Reynolds  presented  the  Con- 
ference assignments  for  1899  as  fol- 
lows: 

Saturday  and  Sunday,  April  29  and 
30— Sanpete. 

Saturday  and  Sunday,  May  6th  and 
7th— St.  George. 

Saturday  and  Sunday,  May  13th  and 
14th — Parowan. 

Saturday  and  Sunday,  May  20th  and 
21st— Malad. 

Saturday  and  Sunday,  May  27th  and 
28th— Juab. 

Saturday  and  Sunday,  June  10th  and 
11th.— Utah. 


72 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION- 


Saturday  and  Sunday,  June  17th  and 
18th— Wasatch. 

Sunday  and  Monday,  June  18th  and 
19th— Oneida. 

Saturday  and  Sunday,  June  24th  and 
25th— Bear  Lake  and  Millai'd. 

Saturday  and  Sunday,  July  1st  and 
2nd — Wayne. 

Saturday  and  Sunday,  July  8th  and 
9th — Sevier  and  Bannock. 

Saturday  and  Sunday,  July  15th  and 
16th—  Morgan  and  Star  Valley. 

Saturday  and  Sunday,  July  22nd  and 
23rd — Bingham  and  Boxelder. 

Saturday  and  Sunday,  July  29th  and 
30th— Fremont. 

Saturday  and  Sunday,  August  5th 
and  6th — Alberta. 

Saturday  and  Sunday,  August  12th. 
and  13th — Cassia  and  Woodruff. 

Saturday  and  Sunday,  August  19th 
and  20th — Cache  and  San  Juan. 

Saturday  and  Sunday,  August  26th 
and  27th— Tooele. 

Saturday  and  Sunday,  September 
2nd  and  3rd — Beaver. 

Saturday  and  Sunday,  September  9th 
and  10th — Summit  and  Kanab. 

Saturday  and  Sunday,  September  16th 
and  17th — Panguitch. 

Saturday  and  Sunday,  September 
23rd  and  24th— Weber  and  Pocatello. 

Treasurer  Reynolds  also  announced 
that  the  third  edition  of  the  small 
Sunday  school  hymn  book  was  now 
ready,  making  in  all  55,000  copies  of  this 
work  which  had  been  issued  from  the 
press.  This  edition  contained  a  few 
new  hymns  and  a  greatly  improved  in- 
dex. Another  edition  of  the  Sunday 
school  song  book,  in  two  styles  of  bind- 
ing, retailed  respectively  at  40  and  50 
cents  was  also  ready.  Numerous  im- 
provements to  make  it  more  uniform 
with  the  Hymn  book  had  been  intro- 
duced in  this  edition.  The  proceedings 
of  the  late  Sunday  school  convention 
held  in  this  city  were  now  on  sale. 
Nearly  4,000  had  been  distributed  gra- 
tuitously to  the  schools,  and  teachers 
and  others  desiring  additional  copies 
could  purchase  them  at  the  office  of  the 
Union  Board  at  10  cents  per  copy.  The 
second  edition  of  the  Treatise  was  also 
ready  for  those  officers  and  teachers 
who  did  not  possess  a  copy.  Price  15 
cents.  Some  few  years  ago  Dr.  James 
E.  Talmage  delivered  a  series  of  lec- 
tures in  the    Assembly    Hail   in  this 


city  before  the  Theological  class  of  the 
Church  university  on  the  "Articles  of 
Faith."  Under  the  direction  of  the 
First  Presidency,  these  lectures  had 
now  been  published  in  book  form,  af- 
ter having  been  examined  by  the 
Presidency  and  by  a  committee  ap- 
pointed by  them.  This  work  is  recom- 
mended to  the  Sunday  schools  and 
other  Church  organizations  as  a  valu- 
able text  book  on  questions  relating  to 
the  faith  of  the  Saints. 

The  choir  sang  "Jesus,  I  my  cross 
have  taken." 

GENERAL  SUPERINTENDENT 
GEORGE  Q.  CANNON 

Spoke  feelingly  on  the  death  of 
First  Assistant  General  Superintendent 
George  Goddard,  and  paid  a  glowing 
tribute  to  the  memory  of  this  Sunday 
school  veteran. 

Following  are  the  remarks: 
I  feel  constrained  to  make  a  few  re- 
marks at  the  opening  of  our  meeting 
in  relation  to  our  late  assistant  super- 
intendent and  warm  friend,  Elder 
George  Goddard.  I  know  you  will  all 
miss  him,  as  we  do  who  were  his  co-la- 
borers. His  voice,  his  genial  presence, 
his  humorous  manner  of  treating  all 
questions,  and  the  interest  that  he 
succeeded  in  throwing  into  everything 
connected  with  the  Sunday  School 
work,  will  be  missed  in  all  these  meet- 
ings. We  look  around  us  and  ask  our- 
selves: Who  can  fill  his  place?  He 
was  unique,  warm-hearted  and 
thoroughly  in  earnest  in  all  that  he 
did  for  the  Sunday  school  cause.  It 
was  dearer  to  him  than  his  own  com- 
fort or  convenience.  He  did  an  amount 
of  travel  that  I  felt  was  too  much  for 
one  of  his  years;  but  he  was  untiring 
in  his  labors  and  took  delight  in 
them,  and  he  was  sustained  by  the 
Lord,  for  the  Lord  bestowed  blessings 
upon  him  and  made  him  the  means  of 
doing  an  immense  amount  of  good. 
It  would  be  difficult  to  calculate  upon 
the  amount  of  good  that  our  departed 
friend  and  brother  has  performed  in 
this  cause.  He  will  be  known  and  re- 
membered by  the  rising  generation  to 
an  extent,  probably,  unequalled  by  any 
other  man,  because  his  manners  were 
such  as  endeared  him  to  all  children. 
They  felt  he  was  their  friend ;  they  ad- 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


73 


mired  and  revered  him,  as  well  as  the 
parents  and  all  those  associated  with 
him.  I  am  sure  that  you  will  feel  with 
me  that  we  have  had  what  might  be 
termed  in  one  respect  an  irreparable 
loss.  It  is  true  that  it  is  a  saying 
among  us  that  there  is  no  man  living 
but  what  can  be  spared;  and  the  work 
goes  on  after  his  departure — even  after 
the  departure  of  the  most  prominent 
of  men.  But  probably  Elder  Goddard 
filled  a  niche  in  our  affections  and  work 
— our  Sunday  school  work — that  we 
shall  find  it  very  difficult  to  fill.  But 
the  Lord,  of  course,  we  know  can  raise 
up  faithful  laborers.  Brother  God- 
dard's  example  in  his  efforts  and  un- 
tiring zeal,  will,  I  hope,  be  followed  by 
all  interested  in  this  work,  and  I  hope 
we  will  try  with  greater  diligence  to 
carry  it  forward  and  to  do  the  work 
that  he  would  do  if  he  were  here  in 
our  midst. 

I  felt  to  say  these  few  words  and  I 
know  that  in  giving  expression  to  these 
thoughts  and  feelings,  though  but 
feebly,  I  am  also  expressing  the 
thoughts  and  feelings  of  your  hearts. 
We  all  mourn  his  departure.  Of  course, 
his  departure  is  for  his  gain,  but  it 
is  a  serious  loss  to  us. 

I  pray  God  that  the  spirit  that  he 
manifested  in  this  work  may  rest  down 
upon  us  all  to  an  increased  extent,  that 
through  our  devotion  and  zeal  we  may, 
in  some  measure,  make  up  for  this  loss. 
I  ask  this  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

APOSTLE  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

I  have  been  requested  to  speak  upon 
the  late  Sunday  school  convention  held 
last  November  in  the  Assembly  Hall. 

The  convention  was  held  on 
Monday  and  Tuesday  and  there  were 
three  sessions  each  day.  It  was  re- 
markably well  attended,  there  being 
but  one  Stake  of  Zion  that  failed  to 
send  delegates.  I  never  attended  a 
series  of  metings  in  my  life  where  the 
people  seemed  to  be  so  interested  as  in 
those  held  during  the  Sunday  school 
convention.  The  spirit  of  the  meetings 
was  choice  indeed.  The  people  were 
particularly  interested;  their  faces  were 
lit  up  with  interest,  and  we  had  a  very 
enjoyable  time,  long  to  be  remembered 
by  each  and  every  one  present.  Broth- 


er Reynolds  has  referred  to  the  fact 
that  the  proceedings  of  the  convention 
have  been  published  in  pamphlet  form 
which  contains  over  one  hundred  pages. 
The  Sunday  School  Union  has  the 
pamphlet  for  sale,  and  it  can  also  be 
found  at  the  Juvenile  Instructor  office. 
Of  course,  you  are  all  well  aware  of  the 
fact  that  in  reading  the  proceedings  of 
a  convention  that  you  lose  much  of  the 
inspiration  manifested  at  the  meetings; 
but,  at  the  same  time,  each  and  every 
Sunday  school  worker  and  all  those  in- 
terested in  the  Sunday  school  work,  will 
be  greatly  benefited  by  getting  a  copy 
of  the  proceedings  of  the  convention 
and  perusing  it.  Very  many  important 
items  on  Sunday  school  work  are  con- 
tained therein:  How  to  hold  Stake  con- 
ferences, the  proper  manner  of  using 
the  Leaflets,  discourses  on  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  and  many  other  matters  of 
great  interest  to  all  connected  with  the 
Sabbath  schools.  I  rejoice  that  we 
should  have  had  such  a  grand  and  glor- 
ious convention  with  which  to  crown 
the  public  labor  of  our  late  Assistant 
Superintendent  Brother  George  God- 
dard. He  enjoyed  those  meetings  ex- 
ceedingly. I  wish  to  say  in  addition  to 
the  pleasure  we  had  of  listening  to  the 
instructions,  that  the  music  that  was 
furnished  us  during  those  meetings  was 
very  pleasing  indeed.  A  half  hour  was 
taken  up  at  the  commencement  of  each 
meeting  in  singing  songs  that  are  ren- 
dered in  the  Sabbath  schools  through- 
out the  Church. 

I  trust  that  we  may  again  have  the 
privilege  of  meeting  in  a  convention.  I 
feel,  on  account  of  the  success  of  the 
one  we  did  have,  that  we  may  be  justi- 
fied in  having  another  in  the  course  of 
a  year  or  so,  and  I  am  sure  that  it 
will  be  even  more  successful  than  the 
one  we  had  last  November. 

I  thank  God,  my  Heavenly  Father, 
for  the  privilege  of  being  associated 
with  ,  the  Sabbath  school  work,  and  I 
am  also  truly  grateful  for  the  increase 
of  over  7,000  pupils  since  last  year's  re- 
port. It  will  only  be  a  short  time  be- 
fore we  will  be  able  to  add  10,000  to 
our  Sunday  schools  every  year.  Truly 
Zion  is  growing.  May  God  bless  you  and 
every  one  laboring  for  the  Sabbath 
schools,  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


74 


"  DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


ELDER  THOMAS  C.  GRIGGS 

This  immense  audience  interested  in 
Sunday  school  work,  and  the  interest- 
ing, statistics  that  have  been  presented 
to  us  on  the  growth  of  this  Sunday- 
school  work  are  largely  the  result  of 
an  event  that  occurred  nearly  fifty 
years  ago,  viz:  The  establishment  of 
the  first  Sunday  school  in  these  Rocky 
Mountains,  which  event  transpired  in 
the  Fourteenth  ward  of  this  city,  on 
the  second  Sunday  in  December,  the 
9th  day  of  the  month,  1849,  by  Richard 
Ballantyne.  It  is  proposed  by  the  Des- 
eret  Sunday  School  Union  to  celebrate 
that  event.  So  far  the  proposition  is 
to  have  a  general  celebration  on  Sun- 
day evening  the  Sth  day  of  October,  in 
this  place.  We  trust  that  all  the  vete- 
ran Sunday  school  workers,  those  that 
have  been  connected  with  the  Sunday 
school  for  25,  30,  35,  40  and  45  years, 
will  be  present.  In  addition  to  this 
it  is  proposed  that  local  celebrations 
be  held  in  each  Sunday  school  on  the 
second  Sunday  in  December,  this  year, 
the  10th  day  of  the  month.  A  suggest- 
ive program  for  the  celebration  will  be 
published  hereafter.  Besides  this  is 
our  record  work.  Blanks  have  been 
sent  to  every  Sunday  school  for  a  syn- 
opsis of  their  respective  histories  and 
the  names  of  those  that  have  presided 
in  the  various  schools.  For  this  pur- 
pose three  blanks  have  been  sent  to 
each  Sunday  school  to  be  filled  out; 
one  of  these  is  to  be  retained  by  the 
school,  one  to  be  sent  to  the  Stake  su- 
perintendency  and  one  to  be  sent  to 
the  general  secretary,  Brother  George 
D.  Pyper.  Another  matter  pertaining  to 
this  is  the  appointment  of  a  special 
committee,  by  each  Stake  superintend- 
ency,  to  act  in  conjunction  with  the 
general  committee  on  the  Semi-centen- 
nial celebration.  The  name  and  ad- 
dress of  the  chairman  of  this  special 
committee  should  be  sent  to  the  gen- 
eral secretary  that  communication  may 
be  had  with  him.  This  labor  of  pre- 
paring these  individual  histories  is  one 
that  will  require  patience  and  persever- 
ance to  accomplish.  This  work  is  im- 
mediately before  us,  as  superintend- 
ents of  schools  and  Stake  superintend- 
ents. We  trust  this  matter  will  be 
given  immediate  attention,  as  it  is  in- 
tended that  these  reports     shall  be 


bound  into  one  volume.  We  have  now, 
as  our  statistics  show,  over  1,000  Sun- 
day schools.  The  preparation  of  this 
history  will  afford  the  basis  for  the 
celebration  of  the  centennial  anniver- 
sary; also  for  the  millennial  anniver- 
sary, which  we  expect  to  see  in  its 
time. 

Elder  George  D.  Pyper  sang,  "Hosan- 

na." 

APOSTLE  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 

From  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
section  68,  page  250,  beginning  with  the 
25th  verse,  we  have  the  following  in- 
struction: 

"And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents 
have  children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
Stakes  which  are  organized,  that  teach 
them  not  to  understand  the  doctrine  of 
repentance,  faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of 
the  living  God,  and  of  baptism  and  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on 
of  the  hands  when  eight  years  old,  the 
sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents; 

"For  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  the  in- 
habitants of  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
Stakes  which  are  organized; 

"And  their  children  shall  be  baptized 
for  the  remission  of  their  sins  when 
eight  years  old,  and  receive  the  laying 
on  of  the  hands; 

"And  they  shall  also  teach  their  chil- 
dren to  pray  and  to  walk  uprightly  be- 
fore the  Lord." 

It  is  very  much  to  be  regretted  that 
children  should  frequently  be  in  the 
Sabbath  school  after  they  are  eight 
years  of  age  without    being  baptized. 

Now,  children  have  rights  as  well  as 
the  rest  of  humanity.  The  Lord  has 
given  instruction  unless  the  par- 
ents prepare  them  for  this  baptism  that 
the  parents  will  be  under  condemnation. 
In  Sunday  schools  where  they  are  very 
strict  they  will  not  allow  unbaptized 
children  over  eight  years  old  to  partake 
of  the  Sacrament.  It  would  be  in  har- 
mony with  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord  to  have  the  parents  taught  this 
duty  towards  their  children  at  their 
firesides  by  our  Teachers — not  the 
teachers  of  the  Sabbath  school,  but  the 
regular  ward  Teachers.  Every  child 
who  desires  it  has  a  right  to  be  bap- 
tized when  eight  years  of  age.  It  is 
singular  to  me  that  fathers  do  not  take 
sufficient  interest  in  their  children  to 
get  permission  of  the  Bishop  to  have 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


75 


their  children  baptized  on  their  eighth 
birthday.     Many  children  have  looked 
forward  to  this  event  with  a  great  deal 
of  anxiety,    and  then  when    the  time 
came  they  were  pushed  aside  with  the 
remark,  "O,  well,  there  are  no  baptisms 
today,  and  you  can  be  baptized  on  some 
other  occasion."    The  Lord  says  His 
house  is  a  house  of  order.    So  it  is  per- 
fectly natural  and  perfectly  consistent 
that    the    Lord  should  require  at  the 
hands  of  the  parents  that  the  children 
should  be  prepared  for  baptism  by  the 
time  they  are  eight  years  of  age.  Some- 
body can  always  be  found  who  holds 
the  Priesthood  of  Aaron  or    of  Mel- 
chisedek,  who  will  very  willingly  put 
himself     out     a    little     to  baptize 
the  children,  that  they  may  have  that 
blessed  privilege.    I  know  of  an  in- 
stance where  a  child  was  very  anxious 
for  baptism,  but  it  was  put  off  and  put 
off  and  by  and  by  the  child  died  with- 
out being  baptized.     "Well,  I  argue  that 
these  dear  children  should  have  this 
privilege.  You  know  we  love  your  chil- 
dren; you  know  we  devote  a  great  deal 
of  time  to  them.    I  would  advise  you, 
my    fellow    laborers    in    the  Sunday 
school,  to  make  this  one  of  your  items 
and  see  that  your  children  are  baptized 
when  the  proper  time  arrives.    As  you 
are  their  friends  and  instructors,  put 
yourselves  out  a  little  to  see  that  this 
is  done,  that  those  dear  children  may 
have  the  privilege  of  being  baptized; 
that  they  may  be  enabled  to  give  the 
reasons  why  they  are  baptized,  and  of 
the  conditions  of  baptism.  When  teach- 
ing a  Sabbath  school  class    in  Nephi 
— mine  was  the  primary  class — wo  used 
to  sing  them  the  song,  "Jesus,  Mighty 
King  in  Zion,"  and  explain  it  to  them 
as  we  went  along. 

And  we  explained  the  different  modes 
of  baptism  so  that  they  might  under- 
stand that  there  are  a  class  of  people 
who  baptize  by  pouring,  and  another 
class  who  baptize  by  sprinkling;  one 
saying  for  justification  the  Lord  would 
pour  out  an  oblation,  and  the  other 
saying  that  He  would  sprinkle  many 
nations.  Let  us  instruct  our  children, 
that  we  may  assist  the  parent  in  pre- 
paring them  for  this  baptism.  I  consid- 
er that  this  is  a  part  of  our  duty.  Let 
us  respect  the  children,  and  let  us  see 
that  they  have  their  rights.  I 
remember  a  child  of  mine    whom  I 


baptized  here  in  the  font  in  Salt  Lake 
City.  I  had  him  up  on  a  visit  from 
Nephi.  With  Elder  Charles  J.  Thomas, 
who  kindly  assisted  me,  I  baptized 
him  when  he  was  eight  years 
of  age  and  confirmed  him,  and  then  I 
took  him  to  have  his  likeness  taken, 
that  he  might  never  forget  it.  That 
was  the  interest  I  took  in  him.  In 
Mexico,  when  I  baptized  a  little  maid 
of  my  own  on  her  eighth  birthday,  I 
gave  it.  out  that  I  would  baptize  her 
on  that  day,  and  if  there  were  any 
children  who  had  been  neglected  we 
would  attend  to  them  at  the  same  time. 
We  baptized  her  and  several  others.  I 
have  been  particular  with  my  children 
that  this  should  be  done  on  their  na- 
tal day.  I  think  of  times  we  are  very 
careless  in  our  records;  it  is  occasional- 
ly difficult  to  find  out  when  people  have 
been  baptized.  If  you  will  baptize  a 
child  the  day  it  is  eight  years  of  age 
the  date  will  always  be  remembered. 
It  seems  to  me  that  a  father  would  de- 
light to  do  this,  and  keep  his  own  rec- 
ord and  act  as  the  patriarch  in  his  own 
house.  All  you  have  to  do  is  to  get 
the  consent  of  your  Bishop  and  have 
a  proper  record  made  of  it. 

My  beloved  fellow  laborers.  God  bless 
you.  Let  us  always  remember  that 
the  children  have  the  right  to  be  bap- 
tized when  eight  years  of  age.  I  am 
grateful  for  having  the  privilege  of 
being  a  Sabbath  school  laborer.  I  have 
been  so  for  a  number  of  years,  and  I 
delight  to  be  associated  with  our  Sun- 
day school  children.  I  pray  God,  our 
eternal  Father,  that  His  blessings  may 
rest  upon  every  Sabbath  school  laborer, 
that  we  may  be  able  to  set  a  good 
example  and  teach  the  children  to  their 
understanding,  through  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

APOSTLE  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN. 

In  answer  to  the  question  of  Brother 
Bickley,  from  Beaver,  whether  chil- 
dren should  be  allowed  to  partake  of 
the  Sacrament  after  they  are  eight 
years  of  age  and  are  not  baptized:  Of 
course,  the  law  should  be  observed,  and, 
in  order  that  this  question  need  not  be 
asked  in  regard  to  the  children  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  we  would  advise 
that  the  Bishops,  who  h.ave  the  bap- 
tisms under  their  care,  see  to  it  that 


76 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


arrangements  are  made  in  every  ward 
that  the  children  may  be  baptized  when 
they  are  eight  years  of  age.  We  have 
been  lenient  in  this  regard— that  is,  the 
rule  of  the  Church  has  been— and  the 
children  have  been  allowed  to  partake 
of  the  Sacrament  after  they  were  eight 
years  of  age  in  order  that  they  might  not 
feel  injured  and  their  hearts  hurt.  But, 
the  Bishops  should  make  the  arrange- 
ments in  their  respective  wards  that  on 
any  day  in  the  year,  cold  or  warm,  the 
children  may  be  baptized  when  eight 
years  of  age.  It  is  a  splendid  thing  to 
do;  it  is  a  nice  arrangement  and  ought 
to  be  observed  in  all  the  Church.  But 
until  this  is  done — when  children  are 
anxious  and  want  to  be  baptized  and  it 
is  not  their  fault  that  they  have  not 
been — we  ought  not  to  be  too  stringent 
in  refusing  the  Sacrament  to  the  chil- 
dren of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  They 
would  like  to  be  baptized  and  they 
ougii^  to  be.  If  they  are  not  baptized 
at  the  proper  time,  the  sin  be  upon  the 
head  of  the  Bishop. 


SECOND  ASSISTANT  SUPERINTEN- 
DENT KARL  G.  MAESER. 

The  subject  given  me  to  speak  upon 
for  a  few  minutes  is  "Humane  Day." 
It  has  been  customary  for  the  Sunday 
School  Union  to  have  a  day  set  apart 
during  the  year  on  which  the  Sunday 
school  teacher  should  pay  particular 
attention  to  kindness  to  animals.  This 
day  has  usually  been  the  last  Sunday 
in  February,  but  the  Sunday  School 
Union  Board,  perhaps,  may  fix  some 
other  day,  if  so,  it  will  be  made  public. 
Kindness  to  animals  has  also  been 
enjoined  upon  us  by  Holy  Writ,  for 
"A  righteous  man  is  merciful  to  his 
animals."  Now,  there  is  too  much 
neglect  on  this  point  observable  among 
our  people.  A  letter  was  received  by 
the  Sunday  School  Union  Board,  some 
time  ago,  from  a  sister  up  north,  re- 
questing that  the  brethren  take  this 
into  consideration  and  enjoin  upon  the 
Sunday  school  workers  the  duty  of 
impressing  upon  the  minds  of  the  pu- 
pils the  necessity  of  being  kind  to  ani- 
mals and  abstaining  from  any  kind  of 
cruelty.  She  also  alluded  to  the  bad 
example  being  set  by  some  in  the  win- 


ter of  leaving  their  animals  out  in  the 
storm,  snow  and  cold,  without  any 
covering  or  without  any  regard  to  their 
suffering.  These  dumb  beasts  were 
neglected  during  the  stormy  weather 
and  received  bad  treatment  at  the 
hands  of  their  masters.  That  brings 
to  my  mind  an  instance  of  several 
years  ago,  when  Heber  C.  Kimball  was 
with  us.  He  was  going  down  State 
street  with  some  of  the  brethren  and 
they  saw  a  man  abusing  a  horse  most 
unmercifully.  As  intelligent  and  well 
posted  as  these  brethren  were  with  re- 
gard to  handling  animals,  they  could 
not  find  out  what  was  really  wanted 
of  the  animal.  The  man  was  beating 
it  unmercifully.  Brother  Kimball 
turned  to  these  brethren  and  said, 
"brethren,  that  horse  will  demand  jus- 
tice of  that  man  some  time  and  will 
get  it.  He  is  making  himself  a 
debtor  to  that  animal."  There  is  a 
sound,  glorious  principle  connected 
with  this.  Could  I  as  an  intelligent 
being,  place  myself  in  such  a  position 
that  I  would  become  a  debtor  to  an 
animal,  and  place  myself  under  such 
a  condition  that  that  animal  could 
claim  justice  from  me  on  account  of 
ill-treatment?  We  may  have  to  slay 
animals  for  food  and  other  legitimate 
reasons,  when  it  is  absolutely  neces- 
sary; but  when  it  is  done  it  should  be 
done  with  as  little  pain  to  the  animal 
as  possible.  Let  us  be  merciful,  as  the 
Scriptures  say  "A  righteous  man  is 
merciful  to  animals."  This  is  a 
principle  we  should  make  a  point  of 
in  all  our  Sunday  schools.  We  should 
enjoin  it  upon  the  pupils,  not  simply 
one  single  day  in  the  year,  which  is  set 
apart  for  this.  I  would  rather  see  it 
urged  whenever  occasion  requires, 
whenever  any  one  in  the  Sunday  school 
has  been  cruel  to  animals  in  any  way. 
I  know  it  is  displeasing  in  the  sight 
of  the  Lord.  This  should  be  taught 
to  the  children  in  the  Sabbath  schools, 
that  the  children  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  may  be  known  for  their  kind- 
ness to  animals. 

I  suppose  the  Sunday  School  Union 
Board  will  take  this  matter  into  con- 
sideration some  day  and  make  known 
the  day  that  will  be  most  convenient 
and  proper  to  be  set  apart  for  that 
purpose. 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


77 


TREE  PLANTING  AND  FORESTRY 
BY  ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 

"The  groves  were  God's  first  tem- 
ples."   In  one  of  these  tempies  Joseph 
Smith  sought  the  Lord  in  prayer  and 
received   a  visit   from  the  Father  and 
the  Son,  and  a  high  commission  from 
them,  which  called  him  to  his  prophetic 
ministry— the  Prophet,  Seer  and  Re  vela- 
tor  of  the  dispensation   of   the  fulness 
of  times.    Shady  groves    have  always 
been  considered   as   a  fit   and  sacred 
place  of  holding  communion  with  the 
Creator  of  the  universe,  as  well  as  for 
other  noble  purposes.    Instance:  The 
old  elm  tree  that  stands  in  the  town  of 
Cambridge  today,  said  to  be  more  than 
300  years  old.    Beneath  this  tree  Wash- 
ington  received   the   command   of  the 
Continental   Army,   in   1775.    The  sub- 
ject of  planting   trees  cannot  be  too 
deeply  impressed  upon  our  young  peo- 
ple, and  at  the  approach  of  every  Ar- 
bor Day,  all  the  Sunday  school  children 
should  be  encouraged  to  assist  in  plant- 
ing one   or   more   trees    around  their 
homes,  in  gardens  or  fields  and  other 
proper  places  designated  by  their  teach- 
ers and   their  parents.     Cultivation  of 
forests  and  of  the  better  class  of  timber 
has  always  been  a  profitable  labor  and 
investment  to  those    who    enter  upon 
this  branch  of   farming,   with  a  proper 
understanding,  and  with  perserverance 
and  industry    continued    their  efforts. 
Some  places  in  Europe,  especially  in 
Germany,  the  small  forests  are  made  to 
yield  a    large  income,  supporting  very 
many  families  by  the  yield  of  wood  and 
lumber  and  the  gums  that  exude  from 
spruce  and  balsams.   Nut-bearing  trees 
are  of  much  importance  to  the  farmers 
of  this  country  and  could  be  made  a 
source  of  great  profit  to  all  those  who 
would  plant  a  few  of  these  species  of 
forest  trees,  among  the  best  and  most 
i  .  ofitable  of  which  is  the  black  wainut. 
Large  farms  can  be  bordered  with  these 
trees,    and    as  they  grow  for  ten  or 
twelve  years,  the  nuts    produced  by 
them  will  aid  very  materially  in  paying 
the  expenses  of  the  farm  and  its  culti- 
vation.   When  they  become  too  large 
and  crowd  each  other  in  the  rows,  good 
sale  can  be  made  of  them  to  cabinet 
makers  and  furniture  producers. 

Speaking  of  trees,  I  am  reminded  of  a 
very  beautiful  story:  A  traveler  return- 


ing to  his  native  home  after  years  of 
absence,  saw  a  man  in  the  act  of  cut- 
ting down  a  large  oak  tree,  under  whose 
pleasant  shade  he  had  played  when  a 
boy.  He  paid  the  man  quite  a  sum  of 
money  to  allow  the  tree  to  remain 
standing,  and  he  wrote  the  following 
beautiful  lines  on  the  subject: 

"Woodman,  spare  the  tree; 

Cut  not  one  single  bough; 
In  youth  it  sheltered  me, 

And  I'll  protect  it  now. 
'Twas  my  forefather's  hand 

That  placed  it  near  his  cot, 
There  woodman  let  it  stand; 

Thy  ax  shall  harm  it  not." 

GEN.  SUPT.  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 

Made  the  closing  address  as  follows: 

There  are  only  a  few  minutes  left, 
and  I  do  not  wish  to  occupy  but  those 
few  minutes. 

There  are  some  questions  that  have 
been  submitted  to  us,  that  is,  to  the 
Sunday  School  Union  Board,  which  it 
is  thought  proper  to  answer. 

One  is,  Who  shall  preside  in  the  Sun- 
day school  when  all  the  superintenden- 
cy  are  absent? 

There  should  be  no  question  about 
this:  if  they  are  all  going  to  be  absent 
they  should  arrange  for  somebody  to 
take  charge  in  their  absence,  either  the 
teacher  who  has  charge  of  the  Theolo- 
gical class  or  some  other  suitable  teach- 
er, that  the  school  may  not  be  left  with- 
out a  proper  person  to  take  charge. 

As  to  the  appointment  of  Sunday 
school  missionaries,  superintendents 
and  officers,  all  this  should  be  done  by 
consent  of  the  Bishop  or  with  his  ap- 
proval. The  question  has  been  asked: 
Shall  the  superintendent  appoint  such 
officers  or  shall  the  Bishop  appoint? 
There  should  be  no  conflict  with  regard 
to  this.  There  should  be  perfect  har- 
mony between  the  president  of  the 
Stake  and  the  superintendent  of  the 
Sunday  schools — the  Stake  superin- 
tendant — and  both  should  work  to- 
gether. Of  course,  it  is  understood,  how- 
ever, that  a  superintendent  of  a  Stake 
has  no  right  to  act  without  the  Bishop. 
The  Bishop  presides  in  his  ward;  the 
president  of  the  Stake  presides  in  his 
Stake,  and  all  officers  under  either  of 
these  organizations  are  subject  to  them. 


I 


78 


DESERET  SUA  DAY  SCHOOL  UN/OA. 


Therefore,  a  superintendent  should  con- 
sult with  the  Bishop  or  with  the  presi- 
dent of  the  Stake;  however,  a  Bishop  or 
Stake  president  will  not  appoint  with- 
out consulting  with  the  superintendent. 
He  will  pay  respect  to  the  officer  that 
has  charge  of  the  Sunday  school  and 
will  not  act,  if  he  is  a  prudent,  wise 
Bishop,  without  consulting  with  that 
officer. 

There  are  other  topics  to  speak  upon, 
but  I  cannot  take  time  to  dwell  upon 
them.  There  is  one  subject,  I  think, 
however,  that  should  be  taught  in  our 
Sunday  schools  more  than  it  is,  and 
that  is  courtesy.  There  is  a  rudeness 
about  our  children  that  ought  to  be  cor- 
rected. There  is  not  respect  paid  by 
boys  to  girls,  by  young  men  to  women, 
and  there  is  manifest  in  our  streets 
very  frequently  a  want  of  respect  to  the 
weaker  sex  and  to  aged  people,  upon 
which,  I  think,  very  profitable  lessons 
may  be  given  to  our  children.  Tou  will 
notice  it  during  muddy  weather.  I  have 
seen  it  many  times — a  person  driving  a 
team  and  a  lady  crossing  the  street — 
our  streets  have  been  seas  of  mud  at 
times — he  drives  along  and  splashes 
mud  over  a  lady  on  the  street  and  then 
laughs  at  it,  as  though  he  had  done 
something  smart.  Now  you  will  see 
much  discourtesy  and  rudeness  of  this 
kind.  We  see  it  constantly;  and  yet, 
the  boys  and  men  that  are  guilty  of  this 
are  not  so  inclined  naturally,  but  it  is 
for  want  of  proper  training,  and  they 


ought  to  be  trained.  We  can  train 
them  in  the  Sunday  school.  This  rude- 
ness will  be  seen  there  and  at  other 
gatherings.  It  can  be  seen  at  times 
when  children  are  going  out  of  a  car 
or  going  out  of  a  door,  the  strong  boys 
will  push  forward  and  crowd  the  girls 
and  little  ones  that  are  weaker  than 
they  are,  and  rush  out  regardless  of 
the  comfort  or,  indeed,  of  the  safety 
of  the  smaller  children  and  girls. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a  good 
place  in  our  Sunday  schools  to  teach 
lessons  of  politeness  and  kindness— to 
teach  our  boys  to  be  kind  and  gentle- 
manly and  to  teach  our  girls  to  be  lady- 
like. Let  us  try  and  raise  up  a  genera- 
tion of  gentlemen  and  ladies.  A  man 
raised  as  a  Latter-day  Saint  is  natur- 
ally, if  he  lives  his  religion,  a  gentle- 
man, and  the  girl  or  woman  raised  as  a 
Latter-day  Saints  is  naturally  a  lady, 
but  they  do  not  know  how.  sometimes, 
to  behave  themselves,  and  they  ought 
to  be  taught.  This  rudeness  in  crossing 
the  streets  and  splashing  mud,  no  doubt 
many  of  you  have  noticed. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  us  and  to  help  us 
to  remember  the  instructions  we  have 
received  this  evening,  which  I  ask  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "Glory  to  God  in  the 
Highest." 

Adjourned. 

Benediction. 

GEO.  D.  PTPER.  Secretary. 


THE 


ARTICLES 


OF  rRITH" 


new  CHURCH  WORK,  4g5  pages,  by  Dr. 
"lames  E.  Talmage,  written  by  appoint- 
ment from  the  First  Presidency.  Designed 
asc)  text  booK  for  use  in  Church  Schools, 
Sunday  Schools,  improvement  Associa- 
tions^! uor  urns,  and  for  individual  study. 
Elegantly  bound  in  all  styles. 

PRICES: 

aom  $1.00 

Leather   '-50 

Learner  Gilt   2.00 

Morocco  Gilt   2.50 


ror  Sale 


THE  OCSERET  MEWS. 


Special  Terms  to  Dealers,  Rgents,  Classes  and  Quorums. 

"Cbe  B00K  of  mormon/' 

Two  Lectures  trom  the  above  work,  compiled,  in  pamphlet  form 
by  Dr.  Talmage  for  convenience  in  study.    Price  1 0  cents. 


