" — J 

Ninety-Third 

Semi-Annual  Conference 

of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly  Hall 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

October  6,  7  and  8 
1922 


With  a  Full  Report  of 
all  the  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


HISTORY  of 
the  CHURCH 


Compiled  by  the   Church  Historians 
and  published  by  the  Church 


IN  SIX  LARGE  VOLUMES 


"The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  with 
introduction  and  notes  by  B.  H.  Roberts. 

A  remarkable  low  price  has  been  placed  on  the  His- 
tory by  the  First  Presidency  to  secure  the  widest  pos- 
sible circulation. 

Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Quorum  and 
Private  Library  should  have  a  set. 

Cloth — Embossed,  per  vol  $1.50  postpaid 


Half  Morocco— Gilt  Top,  per  vol.  2.50 

Half  Calf— Gilt  Top,  per  vol         2.50  " 

Full  Morocco— Full  Gilt  Edge,  vol.  4.00 

The  above  work  is  suggested  as  reference  in  con- 
nection with  the  study  of  "Essentials  in  Church  His- 
tory." 

SEND  FOR  OUR  NEW  CATALOG  FREE 


Completing  the  First  Period. 


44  E.  SOUTH  TEMPLE  ST. 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


Ninety-Third  Semi-Annual  Conference 

of  the 

Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 


FIRST  DAY 

The  93rd  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
at  10  a.  m.,  Friday  October  6,  1922. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  and  announced  the  opening  of 
the  Conference. 

AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Charles  W.  Penrose, 
and  Anthony  W.  Ivins. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,*  David  O.  McKay, 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Talmage,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Rich- 
ard R.  Lyman  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  and  John  A.  Widtsoe. 

Presiding  Patriarch :    Hyrum  G.  Smith. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy :  Seymour  B.  Young,  B.  H. 
Roberts,  J.  Golden  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin, 
Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi  Edgar  Young. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  Charles  W.  Nibley,  David  A.  Smith, 
and  John  Wells. 

Of  the  Church  Historians:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Church  His- 
torian; Andrew  Jenson,  A.  William  Lund,  B.  H.  Roberts,  and  Junius 
F.  Wells,  Assistant  Historians. 

There  were  many  presidents  of  stakes  and  their  counselors,  pa- 
triarchs, bishops  of  wards  and  their  counselors,  and  numerous  other 
prominent  officers,  men  and  women,  representing  various  quorums  of 
the  Priesthood  and  auxiliary  organizations  of  the  Church. 

The  following  mission  presidents  were  in  attendance :  B.  H.  Rob- 
erts, Eastern  States;  Winslow  Farr  Smith,  Northern  States;  Samuel 
O.  Bennion,  Central  States ;  Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern  States ;  John 
M.  Knight,  Western  States;  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  California;  Brig- 
ham  S.  Young,  Northwestern  States;  Rey  L.  Pratt,  Mexico;  Nephi 


*Orson  F.  Whitney  was  absent  presiding  over  the  British  mission. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Jensen,  Canada ;  and  Benjamin  Goddard,  Bureau  of  Information, 
Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City. 

The  Tabernacle  was  filled,  all  the  seats  being  occupied  both  in 
the  gallery  and  in  the  body  of  the  house.  People  from  all  parts  of 
the  Church  were  present. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no 
toil  nor  labor  fear." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  S.  Norman  Lee,  presi- 
dent of  the  Box  Elder  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Do  what  is  right,  the  daydawn 
is  breaking." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  is  a  source  of  great  pleasure  and  satisfaction  to  me  to  see  such 
a  magnificent  audience  here  today,  almost  completely  filling  this 
house.  I  am  sure  that  those  who  are  standing  in  the  gallery  and  on 
the  south  side  of  the  building,  by  a  little  closing  up  on  the  part  of 
the  audience,  could  all  have  a  seat.  I  have  no  recollection  of  ever 
seeing  an  audience  here  on  a  week  day,  in  the  opening  of  our  con- 
ference, where  there  were  so  many  people  standing  when  we  com- 
menced speaking.  There  could  be  no  greater  evidence  of  the  interest  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  than  is  shown  by  this  great  outpouring  of  people 
at  the  first  meeting  of  our  General  Conference,  and  I  am  grateful  to 
all  those  who  are  here  assembled.  I  know  you  have  come  here  with  a 
desire  to  be  fed  the  bread  of  life.  I  have  no  desire  whatever  to  say 
anything  to  you  this  morning  except  that  which  may  be  for  your  bene- 
fit, as  well  as  for  my  own. 

ENGAGED  FOR  MANY  YEARS  IN  PROCLAIMING  THE  GOSPEL 

Forty  years  ago  this  October  conference,  I  met  the  late  Elder 
George  Teasdale  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  at  the  south  gate,  and 
he  shook  hands  with  me  and  said :  "Brother  Grant,  I  am  delighted 
to  see  you.  You  and  I  are  going  to  be" — and  he  stopped  suddenly 
and  his  face  turned  red;  but  the  Lord  gave  me  the  balance  of  the 
sentence.  Four  times  in  my  life  I  have  been  permitted  to  read  the 
thoughts  of  people.  The  balance  of  Brother  Teasdale's  sentence  was — 
"sustained  this  afternoon  as  apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  to  fill 
the  vacancies  in  the  Quorum,"  and  that  went  through  me 
like  a  shock  of  electricity.  I  came  to  the  Sunday  afternoon  meet- 
ing of  the  conference,  because  of  this  partial  sentence,  and  the  bal- 
ance that  was  given  to  me,  with  the  assurance  in  my  heart  that  Brother 
Teasdale  and  myself  would  be  sustained  as  apostles.  Those  of  you 
who  were  at  that  conference  remember  that  it  adjourned  without  fill- 
ing those  vacancies.  I  do  not  believe  that  any  mortal  man  ever  more 
humbly  supplicated  God  during  the  next  few  days  to  forgive  him  for 
his  egotism  than  I  did  for  thinking  that  I  was  to  be  chosen  as  an 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


apostle.  As  you  are  aware,  within  a  week  a  revelation  came  to 
John  Taylor  calling  Brother  Teasdale  and  myself  to  those  positions. 
For  forty  years  I  have  been  engaged  in  proclaiming  the  gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  bearing  witness  to  my  knowledge  that 
God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world,  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living  God.  I  have  had 
the  privilege  of  bearing  that  testimony  in  nearly  every  state  of  the 
Union,  in  Canada  on  the  north,  in  Mexico  on  the  south,  in  the  Hawai- 
ian Islands,  in  far-off  Japan,  in  England,  Ireland,  Scotland,  Wales, 
Germany,  Holland,  Belgium,  Switzerland,  France,  Italy,  Norway,  Swe- 
den, and  Denmark,  and  I  have  had  exceeding  great  joy,  during  all  of 
those  forty  years,  in  bearing  this  testimony. 

I  was  undecided  in  my  mind,  before  coming  to  this  meeting  which 
of  the  many  things  that  I  had  read  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  I  would  speak  upon.  The  only  question  was : 
Which  is  the  one  theme  to  present?  I  have  no  hesitancy  now  as  to 
the  thing  to  talk  about,  because  the  opening  prayer  was  on  the  identi- 
cal subject  of  the  first  item  that  I  read  this  morning  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  and  that  was  to  sustain  and  to  uphold  the  laws  of  the 
land. 

BELIEF  OF  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  ON  GOVERNMENT  AND 
LAWS  IN  GENERAL 

I  have  been  criticized,  time  and  time  again,  by  friends  and  others, 
and  have  had  much  splendid  advice  given  to  me  not  to  read  so  much 
in  public  because  nothing  could  be  more  tiresome  to  an  audience  than 
reading;  but  I  am  not  here  for  the  purpose  of  saying  something  to 
tickle  your  ears  or  to  please  you,  but  I  am  here  with  a  prayer  in  my 
heart  to  say  those  things  that  shall  be  for  your  best  good  and  benefit, 
and  mine  also.  I  honestly  believe  that  it  will  be  for  our  best  good  to 
hear  every  word  of  an  entire  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
which  is: 

"A  Declaration  of  Belief  regarding  Governments  and  Laws  in  general, 
adopted  by  unanimous  vote  at  a  general  assembly  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  held  at  Kirtland,  Ohio,  August  17,  1S35."    (Section  134.) 

"We  believe  that  governments  were  instituted  of  God  for  the  benefit  of 
man ;  and  that  he  holds  men  accountable  for  their  acts  in  relation  to  them,  both 
in  making  laws  and  administering  them,  for  the  good  and  safety  of  society. 

"We  believe  that  no  government  can  exist  in  peace,  except  such  laws  are 
framed  and  held  inviolate  as  will  secure  to  each  individual  the  free  exercise 
of  conscience,  the  right  and  control  of  property,  and  the  protection  of  life." 
(And  that  means  the  right  to  labor  without  taking  the  chance  of  being  killed.) 

"We  believe  that  all  governments  necessarily  require  civil  officers  and 
magistrates;  to  enforce  the  laws  of  the  same ;  and  that  such  as  will  administer 
the  law  in  equity  and  justice  should  be  sought  for  and  upheld  by  the  voice 
of  the  people  (if  a  republic)  or  the  will  of  the  sovereign. 

"We  believe  that  religion  is  instituted  of  God ;  and  that  men  are  amenable 
to  him,  and  to  him  only,  for  the  exercise  of  it,  unless  their  religious  opinions 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


prompt  them  to  infringe  upon  the  rights  and  liberties  of  others ;  but  we  do  not 
believe  that  human  law  has  a  right  to  interfere  in  prescribing  rules  of  wor- 
ship to  bind  the  consciences  of  men,  nor  dictate  forms  for  public  or  private 
devotion;  that  the  civil  magistrate  should  restrain  crime,  but  never  control 
conscience ;  should  punish  guilt,  but  never  suppress  the  freedom  of  the  soul. 

"We  believe  that  all  men  are  bound  to  sustain  and  uphold  the  respective 
governments  in  which  they  reside,  while  protected  in  their  inherent  and  in- 
alienable rights  by  the  laws  of  such  governments ;  and  that  sedition  and  re- 
bellion are  unbecoming  every  citizen  thus  protected,  and  should  be  punished 
accordingly;  and  that  all  governments  have  a  right  to  enact  such  laws  as  in 
their  own  judgments  are  best  calculated  to  secure  the  public  interest;  at  the 
same  time,  however,  holding  sacred  the  freedom  of  conscience. 

"We  believe  that  every  man  should  be  honored  in  his  station,  rulers  and 
magistrates  as  such,  being  placed  for  the  protection  of  the  innocent  and  the 
punishment  of  the  guilty;  and  that  to  the  laws  all  men  owe  respect  and  defer- 
ence, as  without  them  peace  and  harmony  would  be  supplanted  by  anarchy 
and  terror;  human  laws  being  instituted  for  the  express  purpose  of  regulating 
our  interests  as  individuals  and  nations,  between  man  and  man ;  and  divine 
laws  given  of  heaven,  prescribing  rules  on  spiritual  concerns,  for  faith  and 
worship,  both  to  be  answered  by  man  to  his  Maker. 

"We  believe  that  rulers,  states,  and  governments  have  a  right,  and  are 
bound  to  enact  laws  for  the  protection  ,of  all  citizens  in  the  free  exercise  of 
their  religious  belief;  but  we  do  not  believe  that  they  have  a  right  in  justice 
to  deprive  citizens  of  this  privilege,  or  proscribe  them  in  their  opinions,  so 
long  as  a  regard  and  reverence  are  shown  to  the  laws  and  such  religious 
opinions  do  not  justify  sedition  nor  conspiracy. 

"We  believe  that  the  commission  of  crime  should  be  punished  according  to 
the  nature  of  the  offense;  that  murder,  treason,  robbery,  theft,  and  the  .breach 
of  the  general  peace,  in  all  respects,  should  be  punished  according  to  their  crim- 
inality, and  their  tendency  to  evil  among  men,  by  the  laws  of  that  govern- 
ment in  which  the  offense  is  committed;  and  for  the  public  peace  and  tranr 
quility,  all  men  should  step  forward  and  use  their  ability  in  bringing  offenders 
against  good  laws  to  punishment. 

"We  do  not  believe  it  just  to  mingle  religious  influence  with  civil  gov- 
ernment, whereby  one  religious  society  is  fostered  and  another  proscribed  in  its 
spiritual  privileges,  and  the  individual  rights  of  its  members,  as  citizens,  denied. 

"We  believe  that  a'l  religious  societies  have  a  right  to  deal  with  their  mem- 
bers for  disorderly  conduct,  according  to  the  rules  and  regulations  of  such  so- 
cieties;  provided  that  such  dealings  be  for  fellowship  and  good  standing;  but 
we  do  not  believe  that  any  religious  society  has  authority  to  try  men  on  the 
right  of  property  or  life,  to  take  from  them  this  world's  goods,  or  to  put  them 
in  jeopardy  of  either  life  or  limb,  or  to  inflict  any  physical  punishment  upon 
them.  They  can  only  excommunicate  them  from  their  society,  and  withdraw 
from  them  their  fellowship. 

"We  believe  that  men  should  appeal  to  the  civil  law  for  redress  of  all 
wrongs  and  grievances,  where  personal  abuse  is  inflicted,  or  the  right  of  prop- 
erty or  character  infringed,  where  such  laws  exist  as  will  protect  the  same;  but 
we  believe  that  all  men  are  justified  in  defending  themselves,  their  friends, 
ana  property,  and  the  government,  from  the  unlawful  assaults  and  encroach- 
ments of  all  persons  in  times  of  exigency,  where  immediate  appeal  cannot  be 
made  to  the  laws,  and  relief  afforded. 

"We  believe  it  just  to  preach  the  gospel  to  the  nations  of  the  earth,  and 
warn  the  righteous  to  save  themselves  from  the  corruption  of  the  world ;  but 
we  do  not  believe  it  right  to  interfere  wih  bond-servants,  neither  preach  the 
gospel  to,  nor  baptize  them,  contrary  to  the  will  and  wish  of  their  masters,  nor 
to  meddle  with  or  influence  them  in  the  least,  to  cause  them  to  be  dissatisfied 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


with  their  situation  in  this  life,  thereby  jeopardizing  the  lives  of  men;  such 
interference  we  believe  to  be  unlawful  and*  unjust,  and  dangerous  to  the  peace 
of  every  government  allowing  human  beings  to  be  held  in  servitude." 

DUTY  OF  THE  SAINTS  TO  SUSTAIN  AND  LIVE  THE  LAW 

I  endorse  with  all  my  heart  this  declaration  sustained  by  the 
unanimous  vote  of  the  general  conference  in  1835.  I  am  convinced 
beyond  the  shadow  of  a  doubt  that  it  is  the  duty  of  every  Latter-day 
Saint  to  sustain  and  live  the  law.  I  believe  that  every  Latter-day  Saint 
who  has  any  idea  in  his  or  her  heart  that  some  law  has  been  passed 
that  is  not  a  righteous  law,  after  it  has  been  fought  out  in  the  courts 
and  has  been  decided,  whatever  the  decision  may  be,  by  the  highest 
tribunal  of  our  great  and  glorious  country,  the  Supreme  Court  of 
the  United  States,  that  it  is  his  duty  to  obey  such  law.  I  believe  that 
every  Latter-day  Saint — and  by  the  way  no  man  is  a  Latter-day  Saint 
who  drinks  whisky — but  any  "Mormon"  who  drinks  whisky  today 
knows  that  he  is  in  condemnation  before  the  Lord  Almighty,  whether 
he  is  the  one  who  bought  the  whisky,  or  whether  he  is  simply  a  par- 
taker of  it.  I  believe  that  every  Latter-day' Saint  owes  it  to  himself 
to  uphold  and  sustain  what  is  known  as  the  cigarette  law,  and  I  be- 
lieve that  we  as  a  people  should  know  by  the  announcement  of  every 
man;  who  is  to  be  elected  to  the  legislature,  that  he  will  stand  for  that 
law,  and  if  he  will  not  so  announce  himself,  if  his  opponent,  no'  matter 
what  his  politics  may  be,  will  stand  for  that  law,  that  we  ought  to  bury 
our  politics  and  vote  for  the  man  favoring  the  retaining  and  enforcing 
of  the  cigarette  law. 

BEST  MEN  SHOULD  BE  CHOSEN  REGARDLESS  OF  POLITICS 

Politics  reminds  me  very  much  of  the  measles.  The  measles  don't 
hurt  much  if  you  will  take  a  little  saffron  tea  or  something  else  to 
keep  them  on  the  surface,  but  if  they  once  set  in  on  you,  they  turn 
your  hide  yellow  and  sometimes  make  you  cross-eyed.  So  do  not  let 
politics  set  in  on  you.  I  believe  absolutely  in  the  best  men  for  office. 
I  believe  in  honest,  upright,  good  men  being  chose  to  occupy  places 
and  positions  in  the  state  and  in  the  Church. 

THE  SAINTS  BELIEVE  IN  THE  WORDS  OF  THE  PROPHET  JOSEPH 

We  testify  to  all  the  world  that  Joseph  Smith  met  the  Creator  of 
heaven  and  earth.  We  testify  to  all  the  world  that  in  answer  to  the 
question  asked  of  God,  as  to  which  of  all  the  various  religions  in 
the  world  had  the  truth,  that  God  pointed  to  his  son,  Jesus  Christ, 
and  announced  that  he  was  his  well  beloved  Son  and  said:  "Hear 
him,"  and  that  the  Savior  of  the  world  told  Joseph  Smith  to  join 
none  of  them.  We  believe  that  the  man  who  promulgated  these  state- 
ments regarding  government  and  laws  was  a  prophet  of  the  living 
God.  We  believe  the  statements  made  in  the  section  following  what 
I  have  read  to  you — and  by  the  way,  as  I  am  not  here  to  please  you, 
I  will  also  read  Section  135 : 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"Martyrdom  of  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet,  and  his  brother,  Hyrum  Smith 
the  Patriarch,  at  Carthage,  Illinois,  June  27,  1844. 

"To  seal  the  testimony  of  this  book  and  the  Book  of  Mormon,  we  an- 
nounce the  martyrdom  of  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet,  and  Hyrum  Smith  the 
Patriarch.  They  were  shot  in  Carthage  jail,  on  the  27th  of  June,  1844,  about 
five  o'clock  p.  m.,  by  an  armed  mob — painted  black — of  from  150  to  200  per- 
sons. Hyrum  was  shot  first  and  fell  calmly,  exclaiming:  I  am  a  dead  man! 
Joseph  leaped  from  the  window,  and  was  shot  dead  in  the  attempt,  exclaim- 
ing: O  Lord,  my  God!  They  were  both  shot  after  they  were  dead,  in  a 
brutal  manner,  and  both  received  four  balls. 

"John  Taylor  and  Willard  Richards,  two  of  the  Twelve,  were  the  only 
persons  in  the  room  at  the  time;  the  former  was  wounded  in  a  savage  man- 
ner with  four  balls,  but  has  since  recovered;  the  latter,  through  the  provi- 
dence of  God,  escaped,  without  even  a  hole  in  his  robe. 

"Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet  and  Seer  of  the  Lord,  has  done  more, 
save  Jesus  only,  for  the  salvation  of  men  in  this  world,  than  any  other 
man  that  ever  liyed  in  it.  In  the  short  space  of  twenty  years,  he  has 
brought  forth  the  Book  of  Mormon,  which  he  translated  by  the  gift  and 
power1  of  God,  and  has  been  the  means  of  publishing  it  on  two  con- 
tinents; has  sent  the  fulness  of  the  everlasting  gospel,  which  it  contained, 
to  the  four  quarters  of  the  earth;  has  brought  forth  the  revelations  and 
commandments  which  compose  this  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and 
many  other  wise  documents  and  instructions  for  the  benefit  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men;  gathered  many  thousands  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  founded 
a  great  city,  and  left  a  fame  and  name  that  cannot  be  slain.  He  lived 
great,  and  he  died  great  in  the  eyes  of  God  and  his  people;  and  like  most 
of  the  Lord's  anointed  in  ancient  times,  has  sealed  his  mission  and  his 
works  with  his  own  blood;  and  so  has  his  brother  Hyrum.  In  life  they  were 
not  divided,  and  in  death  they  were  not  separated! 

"When  Joseph  went  to  Carthage  to  deliver  himself  up  to  the  pretended 
requirements  of  the  law,  two  or  three  days  previous  to  his  assassination, 
he  said:  'I  am  going  like  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter;  but  I  am  calm  as  a 
summer's  morning;  I  have  a  conscience  void  of  offense  towards  God,  and 
towards  all  men.  I  shall  die  innocent,  and  it  shall  yet  be  said  of  me — he 
was  murdered  in  cold  blood.'"  (And  that  is  said  of  him  all  over  the  world, 
whether  by  members  of  the  Church  or  not,  who  are  familiar  with  all  the 
circumstances.  A  more  dastardly,  outrageous  murder  was  never  before 
committed  in  the  world.) 

"The  same  morning,  after  Hyrum  had  made  ready  to  go— shall  it  be 
said  to  the  slaughter?  yes,  for  so  it  was — he  read  the  following  paragraph, 
near  the  close  of  the  twelfth  chapter  of  Ether,  in  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
and  turned  down  the  leaf  upon  it: 

"  'And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  prayed  unto  the  Lord  that  he  would  give 
unto  the  Gentiles  grace,  that  they  might  have  charity.  And  it  came  to 
pass  that  the  Lord  said  unto  me:  If  they  have  not  charity  it  mattereth  not 
unto  thee,  thou  hast  been  faithful;  wherefore  thy  garments  are  clean.  And 
because  thou  hast  seen  thy  weakness,  thou  shalt  be  made  strong,  even 
unto  the  sitting  down  in  the  place  which  I  have  prepared  in  the  mansions 
of  my  Father.  And  now  I  *  *  *  bid  farewell  unto  the  Gentiles;  yea, 
and  also  unto  my  brethren  whom  I  love,  until  we  shall  meet  before  the 
judgment-seat  of  Christ,  where  all  men  shall  know  that  my  garments  are 
not  spotted  with  yor  blood.'  The  testators  are  now  dead,  anld  their  testament 
is'  in  force." 


My  mother,  as»a  young  woman,  lived  in  Nauvoo  for  years.  She 
assured  me  that  no  more  God-fearing,  upright  mortal  ever  trod  the 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


earth  than  Hyrum  Smith,  the  Patriarch,  and  I  have  no  doubt  what- 
ever as  to  the  absolute  exaltation  of  Joseph  and  Hyrum  in  the  presence 
of  the  Lord.  I  have  no  doubt  that  these  two  men  are  assisting  in 
directing,  by  the  power  that  they  have  on  the  other  side,  the  work  of 
God  here  on  the  earth,  notwithstanding  their  martyrdom. 

"Hyrum  Smith  was  forty-four  years  old  in  February,  1844,  and  Joseph 
Smith  was  thirty-eight  in  December,  1843 ;  and  henceforward  their  names  will 
be  classed  among  the  martyrs  of  religion;  and  the  reader  in  every  nation  will 
be  reminded  that  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  this  book  ,of  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants of  the  Church,  cost  the  best  blood  of  the  nineteenth  century  to  bring 
them  forth  for  the  salvation  pf  a  ruined  world;  and  that  if  the  fire  can  scathe 
a  green  tree  for  the  glory  of  God,  how  easy  it  will  burn  up  the  dry  trees  to 
purify  thej  vineyard  of  corruption.  They  lived  for  glory;  they  died  for  glory; 
artd  glory  is  their  eternal  reward.  From  age  to  age  shall  their  names  go 
down  to  posterity  as  gems  for  the  sanctified. 

"They  were  innocent  of  any  crime,  as  they  had  often  been  proved  before, 
and  were  only  confined  in  jail  by  the  conspiracy  of  traitors  and  wicked  men; 
and  their  innocent  blood  on  the  floor  of  Carthage  jail  is  a  broad  seal  affixed 
to  'Mormonism'  that  cannot  be  rejected  by  any  court  on  earth,  and  their  in- 
nocent blood  on  the  escutcheon  of  the  State  of  Illinois,  with  the  broken  faith 
of  the  State  as  pledged  by  the  governor,  is  a  witness  to  the  truth  of  the  ever- 
lasting gospel  that  all  the  world  cannot  impeach ;  and  their  innocent  blood  on 
the  banner  of  liberty,  and  on  the  magna  charta  of  the  United  States,  is  an 
ambassador  for  the  religion  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  will  touch  the  hearts  of 
honest  men  among  all  nations ;  and  their  innocent  blood,  with  the  innocent 
blood  of  all  the  martyrs  under  the  altar  that  John  saw,  will  cry  unto  the  Lord  of 
Hosts  till  he  avenges  that  blood  on  the  earth." 

THIS  AUDIENCE  A  TESTIMONY  TO  THE  DIVINITY  OF  THE  CHURCH 

I  have  understood  that  this  splendid  account  of  the  martyrdom  of 
Joseph  and  Hyrum  Smith  was  written  by  President  John  Taylor, 
known  as  the  "Champion  of  Liberty"  who  received  four  shots  in  his 
body  and  who  lived  carrying  some  of  those  bullets  to  his  grave,  and 
who,  years  after  the  martyrdom,  stood  before  the  people  in  this  stand 
as  the  President,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Men  may  conspire,  men  may  work  against  the  Church  of 
God  again  established  upon  the  earth,  but  the  statement  here  made 
that  no  man,  saving  Jesus  Christ  himself,  has  done  more  for  the  sal- 
vation of  humanity  than  did  Joseph  Smith,  cannot  be  controverted.  I 
am  at  the  defiance  of  the  world  tot  have  any  religious  people,  I  do  not 
care  where  you  go,  with  no  more  members  than  the  Latter-day  Saints 
have,  to  call  a  conference  of  the  people  and  have  such  a  splendid 
audience  as  there  is  here  today.  This  very  audience  is  a  testimony  to 
every  living  soul  who  stops  to  reflect  upon  it,  that  God  has  in  very 
deed,  through  the  instrumentality  of  Joseph  Smith,  established  again 
upon  the  earth  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation ;  that  Jesus  Christ  did 
direct  him.  All  the  disbelief  of  all  the  world  that  God  and"  Jesus 
Christ  spoke  to  him,  cannot  change  the  fact,  if  it  is  a  fact — and  God 
has  given  to  me,  to  hundreds  and  thousands,  and  tens  of  thousands  of 
his  children,  from  the  country  of  the  Midnight  Sun,  Scandinavia,  clear 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


down  to  South  Africa,  all  over  Europe,  from  Canada  to  South  America, 
and  all  over  the  Islands  of  the  sea,  an  absolute  witness  by  the  Holy 
Spirit  that  Joseph  Smith  is  in  very  deed  a  Prophet  of  the  living  God. 

FALSEHOODS  STILL  PROMULGATED  COCERNING  THE  CHURCH 

Allow  me  to  read  a  news  clipping  sent  me  in  a  letter  by  former 
Governor  John  C.  Cutler.  He  says :  "I  thought  the  annexed  clipping 
would  be  information  to  you,  as  it  was  to  me" : 

"MORMON  LEADER  POLITICAL  BOSS  SAYS  REFORMER 

(Exclusive  Dispatch) 

"Winona  Lake  (Ind.)  August  9. — The  most  powerful  political  private 
individual  in  America  today  is  H.  J.  Grant,  head  of  the  'Mormon'  Kingdom," 
declared  Dr.  James  S.  Martin  of  Pittsburg,  superintendent  of  the  National 
Reform  Association,  in  addressing  the  annual  Christian  Citizenship  Institute 
here  today.  "Twenty-six  years  ago,"  he  continued,  "there  was  not  a  principal 
man  in  all  'Mormondom'  who  had  even  s,o  much  as  a  vote.  All  had  been  dis- 
franchised by  the  United  States  government  on  account  of  their  crimes.  To- 
day H.  J.  Grant  patronizes  presidents,  makes  bargains  with  great  political 
parties,  dictates  the  political  policies  of  Utah  and  at  least  five  surrounding 
states  and  wields  effective  political  influences  in  at  least  five  others." 

The  gentleman  must  have  been  listening  to  one  of  the  lying 
speeches  of  a  notorious  anti-"Mormon"  woman.  Martin  is  the  Super- 
intendent of  the  National  Reform  Association.  If  he  is  properly 
quoted  he  better  reform  himself,  and  purge  himself  of  falsehood. 
There  is  a  special  place  prepared  for  his  kind,  and  if  he  does  not  repent 
he  will  land  there.  I  announce  to  all  the  world  that  I  do  not  even 
control,  politicaly,  Utah,  and  that  I  have  no  desire  to  control  Utah,  that 
I  have  never  opened  my  mouth  in  favor  of  or  against  any  individual 
in  any  of  the  adjacent  states  that  he  is  reported  to  say  I  control  po- 
litically. Joseph  Smith  was  told  that  his  name  "should  be  had  for 
good  and  evil  among  all  nations,"  or  that  it  should  be  both  "good  and 
evil  spoken  of  among  all  people,"  and  we,  his  successors,  have  had 
the  same  privilege.  We  have  been  lied  about  most  scandalously.  One 
anti-"Mormon"  is  reported  to  have  said  that  I  had  fifteen  million 
dollars  in  a  Wall  Street  bank,  as  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church; 
and  I  never  had  fifteen  cents. 

DISBELIEF  AND  LIES  OF  THE  WORLD  CAN  NOT  STOP  THE  PROGRESS 
OF  THE  WORK 

As  I  have  said,  all  the  disbelief  of  all  the  world  and  all  the  lies 
of  men  like  Doctor  Martin,  who  might  inform  themselves  and  there- 
fore do  not  need  to  tell  these  lies,  cannot  stop  the  progress  of  this 
work.  Just  to  show  you  that  it  cannot  be  stopped,  let  me  read  again 
what  the  Lord  told  Joseph  Smith  when  he  was  incarcerated  in  Liberty 
Jail.  You  cannot  keep  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  even  from  com- 
ing to  the  Prophet  while  in  a  jail.  I  will  let  you  read  some  of  it 
yourselves.  It  is  Section  121.  Read  it  all.  I  will  start  with  the  33rd 
verse : 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  9 

"How  long  can  rolling  waters  remain  impure?  What  power  shall  stay  the 
heavens?  As  well  might  man  stretch  forth  his  puny  arm  to  stop  the  Missouri 
river  in  its  decreed  course,  or  to  turn  it  up  stream,  as  to  hinder  the  Almighty 
from  pouring  down  knowledge  from  heaven  upon  the  heads  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints. 

"Behold,  there  are  many  called,  but  few  are  chosen.  And  why  are  they 
riot  chosen? 

"Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  much  upon  the  things  of  this  world,  and 
aspire  to  the  honors  of  men,  that  they  do  not  learn  this  one  lesson— 

"That  the  rights  of  the  priesthood  are  inseparably  connected  with  the 
powers  of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of  heaven  cannot  be  controlled  nor 
handled  only  upon  the  principles  of  righteousness." 

Joseph  Smith,  Brigham  Young,  John  Taylor,  or  any  one  of  his 
successors,  cannot,  and  never1  could,  handle  the  powers  of  heaven  only 
in  righteousness,  and  they  never  tried  to. 

"That  they  may  be  conferred  upon  us,  it  is  true;  but  when  we  undertake 
to  cover  our  sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride,  our  vain  ambition',  or  to  exercise 
control  or  dominion  or  compulsion  upon  the  souls  of  the  children  of  men, 
in  any  degree  of  unrighteousness,  behold,  the  heavens  withdraw  themselves ; 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  grieved ;  and  when  it  is  withdrawn,  Amen  to  the 
priesthood  or  the  authority  of  that  man. 

"Behold,  ere  he  is  aware,  he  is  left  unto  himself,  to  kick  against  the  pricks, 
to  persecute  the  saints,  and  to  fight  against  God. 

"We  have  learned  by  sad  experience  that  it  is  the  nature  and  disposition 
of  almost  all  men,  as  soon  as  they  get  a  little  authority,  as  they  suppose,  they 
will  immediately  begin  to  exercise  unrighteous  dominion. 

"Hence  many  are  called,  but  few  are  chosen. 

"No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the 
priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by  long-suffering,  by  gentleness  and  meekness, 
and  by  love  unfeigned; 

"By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge,  which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the  soul 
without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile — 

"Reproving  betimes  with  sharpness,  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost; 
and  then  showing  forth  afterwards  an  increase  of  love  toward  him  whom 
thou  hast  reproved,  lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be  his  enemy; 

"That  he  may  know  that  thy  faithfulness  is  stronger  than  the  cords  of 
death. 

"Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men,  and  to  the  house- 
hold of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly;  then  shall  thy 
confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God ;  and  the  doctrine  of  the  priest- 
hood! shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews  from  heaven. 

"The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  "constant  companion,  and  thy  scepter  an 
unchanging  scepter  of  righteousness  and  truth;  and  thy  dominion  shall  be  an 
everlasting  dominion,  and  without  compulsory  means  it  shall  flow  unto  thee 
forever  and  ever." 

Liberty  Jail  did  not  keep  back  the  inspiration  of  the  living  God 
from  Joseph  Smith ;  as  few  if  any  greater  revelations  have  ever  been 
given  us  than  this  one  received  in  Liberty  Jail. 

I  will  now  quote  from  section  76: 

"And  this  is  the  Gospel,  the  glad  tidings,  which  the  voice  out  of  the 
heavens  bore  record  unto  us — 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"That  he  came  into  the  world,  even  Jesus,  to  be  crucified  for  the  world, 
and  to  bear  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  to  sanctify  the  world,  and  to  cleanse 
it  from  all  unrighteousness."    (Doc.  and  Cov.,  Sec.  76.) 

That  is  the  testimony  of  the  gospel  that  we  bear  to  all  the 
world.  Men  have  said:  "We  believe  that  Jesus  Christ  lives,  but  we 
don't  know  it."  Two  men  at  least  knew  it,  and  here  is  their  testi- 
mony ;  this  is  the  testimony  of  Joseph  Smith  and  Sidney  Rigdon : 

"And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  of  him,  this 
is  the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him :  That  he  lives ! 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father— 

"That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and  of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were 
created,  and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto 
God." 

OUR  SACRIFICES  FOR  THE  GOSPEL  A  PROOF  OF  OUR  LOVE  FOR  IT 

"Oh  but,"  says  one,  "I  don't  believe  it."  Once  more  allow  me 
to  announce  that  all  the  disbelief  of  all  the  world  cannot  change  the 
fact,  if  it  is  a  fact,  and  God  has  given  to  thousands  and  tens  of  thou- 
sands the  witness  by  the  revelations  of  his  Holy  Spirit  that  it  is  a  fact, 
that  "Mormonism"  socalled  by  the  world,  is  in  very  deed  the  plan  of 
life  and  salvation;  that  Joseph  Smith  was  in  very  deed  the  Prophet 
of  the  true  and  living  God.  People  say:  "We  cannot  understand  the 
strength  of  "Mormonism,"  we  cannot  understand  why  two  thousand 
young  men  and  young  women  at  one  time,  at  their  own  expense  or 
at  the  expense  of  their  families,  will  go  into  the  world,  giving  their 
time  without  money  and  without  price,  to  proclaim  the  gospel  losing 
their  wages,  paying  their  own  way,  to  proclaim  your  faith."  Every 
Latter-day  Saint  can  understand  it.  They  understand  it  because  those 
young  men  and  those  young  women  who  go'  out  to  proclaim  the  gos- 
pel, live  it,  they  in  very  deed  are  fulfilling  the  requirements  laid  down 
by  the  Savior  "to  love  the  Lord  our  God  with  all  our  heart,  mind, 
might  and  strength,"  and  the  next  great  commandment,  "to  love  our 
neighbor  as  ourselves."  No  other  people  in  all  the  world  are  giving 
such  an  evidence  of  the  love  of  God  and  the  love  of  their  fellows  as 
is  given  by  our  missionaries.  Day  after  day  the  majority  of  all  the 
letters  that  come  to  the  desk  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  are  from 
young  men  and  young  women  who  are  called  upon  missions,  and  it  is 
the  rarest  thing  in  the  world  to  find  a  missionary  call  that  is  not 
favorably  and  willingly  answered. 

When  we  send  out  these  calls  for  missions  the  answer  comes  back : 
"I  thank  the  Lord  that  he  has  seen  fit  to  inspire  his  servants  to  call 
me  upon  a  mission.  It  has  been  the  dream  of  my  life."  Another :  "My 
heart  has  always  longed  to  go  forth  and  proclaim  this  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  I  am  grateful  that  the  call  has  come."  That  is  the  class  of 
letters  that  we  get  day  after  day.  There  are  tens  of  thousands  of  men 
and  women  who  have  gone  forth  to  proclaim  this  gospel,  and  the 
amount  of  sacrifice  in  actual  dollars,  in  proportion  to  our  numbers, 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


11 


is  almost  beyond  calculation.  When  you  figure  that  these  people 
could  earn  probably,  on  an  average,  $100  per  month,  that  they  are 
spending  from  $20  to,  in  same  cases,  $60  and  $70  a  month,  an  average 
probably  of  nearly  $50;  that  two  thousand  or  nearly  that  number,  and 
sometimes  it  has  been  in  excess,  are  giving  all  this  time  and  this  ex- 
pense; add  it  together  and  it  amounts  to  several  million  dollars  a  year, 
and  all  done  with  no  hope  of  earthly  reward. 

THE  UNCERTAIN  REPLIES  OF  THE  MINISTERS 

I  remember  while  proclaiming  the  gospel  in  England  I  ran 
across  a  book  written  by  ex-Senator  Beveridge,  I  believe  he  was 
then  a  senator,  entitled,  The  Young  Man  and  the  World.  I  have  re- 
ferred to  it  many  times  here,  but  I  desire  to  refer  to  it  again.  In  that 
book  I  found  chapters  on,  "The  Young  Man  and  the  Pulpit,"  "The 
Young  Man  and  His  Home,"  "The  Young  Man  and  the  Law ;"  and 
in  the  chapter  on  "The  Young  Man  and  the  Pulpit,"  he  said  that  a 
certain  individual  with  very  splendid  chances  for  favorable  answers, 
with  good  opportunities  during  an  entire  summer  vacation  asked  of  all 
the  ministers  that  he  met,  three  questions  and  he  announced  before 
coming  to  those  questions  that  one  of  the  greatest  transportation  men 
in  all  the  United  States  had  said  that  he  would  rather  have  a  knowl- 
edge that  we  live  again  and  that  the  soul  is  immortal  than  to  have 
the  greatest  honor  and  the  greatest  position  that  could  be  given  in  all 
the  world,  and  he  told  of  another  man  that  was  just  an  ordinary  ward 
politician  who  said  he  thought  of  many  strange  things — "Is  the  soul 
immortal  and  what  is  the  soul  anyway?"  The  three  questions  were 
as  follows : 

"First,  yes  or  no,  Do  you  believe  in  God,  the  Father;  God  a  per- 
son, God  a  definite  and  tangible  intelligence — not  a  congeries  of  laws 
floating  like  a  fog  through  the  universe ;  but  God  a  person,  in  whose 
image  you  were  made  ?  Don't  argue ;  don't  explain  ;  but  is  your  mind 
in  a  condition  where  you  can  answer  yes  or  no?" 

"Not  a  man  answered,  "Yes."  Each  man  wanted  to  explain  that 
the  Deity  might  be  a  definite  intelligence  or  might  not ;  that  the  'latest 
thought'  was  much  confused  upon  the  matter,  and  so  forth  and  so  on." 

Then  the  next  question : 

"Yes  or  no :  Do  you  believe  that  Christ  was  the  Son  of  the  living 
God,  sent  by  him  to  save  the  world?  I  am  not  asking  whether  you 
believe  that  he  was  inspired,  in  the  sense  that  the  great  moral  teachers 
are  inspired — nobody  has  any  difficulty  about  that.  But  do  you  be- 
lieve that  Christ  was  God's  very  Son,  with  a  divinely  appointed  and 
definite  mission,  dying  on  the  cross  and  raised  from  the  dead. — yes 
or  no?" 

"Again  not  a  single  answer  with  an  unequivocal,  earnest  'Yes.' 
But  again  explanations  were  offered  and  in  at  least  half  the  instances 
the  sum  of  most  of  the  answers  was  that  Christ  was  the  most  perfect 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


man  that  the  world  had  seen,  and  humanity's  greatest  moral  teacher." 

He  was  not  a  great  moral  teacher  if  he  was  not  the  Son  of  God, 
because  he  announced  himself  as  the  Son  of  God.  He  announced 
himself  as  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  therefore  he  could  not  be 
a  great  moral  teacher,  if  the  foundation  upon  which  he  stood  was  a 
falsehood. 

The  third  question  was : 

"Do  you  believe  that  when  you  die  you  will  live  again  as  a  con- 
scious intelligence,  knowing  who  you  are  and  who  other  people  are?" 

"Again,  not  one  answer  was  unconditionally  affirmative.  'Of 
course  they  were  not  sure  as  a  matter  of  knowledge.'  'Of,  course  that 
could  not  be  known  positively.'  " 

THE  DEFINITE  ANSWER  OF  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  TO  THESE  QUESTIONS 

The  Latter-day  Saints  everywhere  in  the  wide  world,  without 
one  moment's  hesitation,  would  answer :  "Yes,  yes,  yes,"  to  all  three 
of  those  questions.  We  have  no  doubt  that  God  is  a  person.  Joseph 
Smith  saw  him  and  talked  with  him.  We  have  no  doubt  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world  because  he  declared  that  to  Sidney 
Rigdon  and  to  Joseph  Smith  in  the  declaration  that  I  have  just  read 
to  you.  We  have  no  doubt,  because  Jesus  Christ  appeared  in  the  Kirt- 
land  temple  to  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery.  We  have  abso- 
lutely no  doubt  whatever  regarding  the  immortality  of  the  soul — 

"And  should  we  die  before  our  journey's  through, 

Happy  day !  all  is  well ! 
We  then  are  free  from  toil  and  sorrow  too, 

With  the  just  we  shall  dwell." 

'I  had  a  letter  from  the  vice-president  of  a  great  banking  institu- 
tion, to  whom  I  sang  this  song  when  he  was  in  Utah,  and  he  asked  me 
for  a  copy  of  it.  A  few  days  later  he  repeated  to  me  the  last  verse, 
and  said: 

"Those  are  wonderfully  inspiring  words.  I  have  never  read  a 
verse  of  any  hymn  that  taught  such  an  absolute,  firm  conviction  in 
the  immortality  of  the  soul." 

In  a  letter  which  he  wrote  to  me  he  referred  to  those  words  again, 
and  he  said:  "I  consider  these  the  most  sublime  words  I  have  ever 
heard.  They  inspire  to  courage  and  that  beautiful  confidence  in  the 
immortality  of  the  soul  that  raises  man  to  the  stature  of  a  God." 

Latter-day  Saints  answer  those  questions  "Yes,  yes,  yes."  Mr. 
Beveridge  says  that  these  ministers  were  among  the  most  eloquent  and 
high-grade  ministers  in  the  Eastern  and  New  England  states,  and 
that  they  felt  there  was  a  decline  of  faith  among  the  people.  In  that 
connection  he  said : 

"Is  it  possible  that  such  priests  of  interrogation  could  warm  the 
hearts  of  men?"  He  went  on  to  say  before  he  asked  these  quetsions 
that  any  man  who  stood  up  in  the  pulpit  and  undertook  to  teach  the 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


13 


doctrines  of  Christ,  when  he  lacked  a  faith  in  those  doctrines  himself, 
committed  a  sacrilege  every  time  he  entered  the  pulpit. 

BELIEVE  WHAT  YOU  SAY 

I  have  heard  it  said  that  "damn"  is  not  swearing,  that  it  is  only 
emphasis.  I  was  preaching  one  night  with  the  late  President  John 
Henry  Smith,  in  the  opera  house  in  Phoenix.  The  legislature  was  in 
session.  Hearing  that  two  of  the  "Mormon"  apostles  were  there, 
some  of  the  members  of  the  legislature  waited  on  us  and  said  they  had 
arranged  to  hire  the  opera  house,  and  they  would  agree  to  fill  it  if  we 
would  condescend  to  preach.  Well,  we  usually  hire  our  own  hall  and 
condescend  to  preach  to  empty  benches ;  so,  of  course,  we  condescended, 
and  were  delighted  with  the  opportunity.  One  of  the  good  sisters 
who  came  down  from  Mesa  was  sitting  behind  a  man  while  I  was 
preaching,  and  she  heard  him  say,  with  emphasis,  that  I  was  an  earnest 
preacher.  Pretty  soon,  with  that  emphasis  again,  he  said  I  was  a 
good  preacher,  and  finally  once  more  with  emphasis  he  said :  "That 
man  believes  (with  emphasis)  every  word  he  is  saying."  I  ask  no 
greater  compliment. 

GRATITUDE  TO  PARENTS  WHO  WERE  TRUE  TO  THE  FAITH 

Before  I  sit  down  I  want  to  say  that  I  have  never  heard  and 
never  expect  to  hear,  to  the  day  of  my  death,  my  favorite  hymn: 
"Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil  nor  labor  fear,  But  with  joy  wend  your 
way,"  but  what  I  think  of  the  death  and  the  burial  of  my  little  baby 
sister,  and  the  wolves  digging  up  her  body  on  the  plains ;  but  what  I 
think  of  the  death  of  my  father's  first  wife,  and  the  bringing  of  her 
body  here  for  burial,  from  Echo  Canyon;  but  what  1  think  of  others 
that  I  know  of,  who  laid  down  their  lives;  but  what  I  think  of  that 
wonderful  journey  of  Brigham  Young  and  his  band  of  Pioneers,  and 
those  who  followed  him,  and  my  heart  goes  out  in  gratitude  beyond 
all  the  power  with  which  God  has  given  me  to  express  it,  that  my 
father  and  my  mother  were  among  those  who  were  true  to  God,  and 
who  made  those  sacrifices  for  the  conviction  of  their  hearts,  because 
of  the  knowledge  that  they  had  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
and  that  Joseph  Smith  is  his  Prophet.  I  never  hear  this  other  hymn 
that  we  have  sung  here  today — "Do  what  is  right" — but  what  I  de- 
sire with  all  the  power  of  my  being  to  impress  upon  the  Latter-day 
Saints  the  necessity  of  following  the  teachings  of  the  last  verse  of 
that  hymn, 

"Do  what  is  right;  be  faithful  and  fearless, 
Onward,  press  onward,  the  goal  is  in  sight; 

Eyes  that  are  wet  now,  ere  long  will  be  tearless, 
Blessings  await  you  in  doing  what's  right. 

"Do  what  is  right,  let  the  consequence  follow, 

Battle  for  freedom  in  spirit  and  might, 
And  with  stout  hearts  look  ye  forth  till  tomorrow, 

God  will  protect  you,  do  what  is  right." 

God  bless  you  all.  Amen. 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


A  duet  entitled,  "My  Faith  Looks  Up  to  Thee,"  was  sung  by  Louise 
and  Catherine  Watson. 

ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

{Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  President  of  the 
Eastern  States  Mission) 

This  certainly  is  a  very  great  surprise  to  me.  I  think  none  of 
the  presidents  of  missions,  or  any  member  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy,  ever  expect  that  they  will  be  called  upon  the  first  day  of  the 
conference  to  take  up  any  portion  of  the  time.  It  may  take  a  moment 
or  two  for  me  to  get  over  my  astonishment,  and  to  begin  thinking 
about  what  I  may  say  to  you  on  this  occasion.  However,  very  much 
of  that  great  theme  upon  which  our  president  has  been  speaking  this 
morning  deals  with  matters  that  are  very  important  and  of  which  I 
have  thought  much  of  late. 

I  have  been  very  greatly  impressed  during  the  last  few  months, 
while  trying  to  deliver  the  message  of  our  Church  to  the  world,  with 
the  importance  of  the  message  that  we  have,  not  only  for  individuals, 
but  for  our  nation.  Of  course  our  message  is  primarily  to  individuals; 
it  is  a  call  to  repentance  for  men  individually ;  a  call  to  repent  of  their 
sins,  and,  through  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  obtain 
remission  of  their  sins,  and  be  born  again  into  fellowship  with  God. 
Our  effort  is  to  bring  the  lives  of  men  into  union  with  the  spirit  life 
of  God,  and  thus  become  spiritually  alive;  and  this  message  of  the 
gospel  is  unto  all  those  who  have  not  received  it. 

But  also,  it  is  foreshadowed  in  that  great  prophecy,  of  which  so- 
called  "Mormonism"  is  a  fulfilment,  that  this  message  is  to  be  de- 
livered to  every  nation  and  kindred  and  tongue  and  people;  and  I 
believe  to  nations  as  such.  And  especially  is  this  so  with  reference  to 
the  Gentile  nations  of  this  new  world — the  two  great  continents  of 
America.  And  again  is  this  especially  so  with  that  great  Gentile  na- 
tion known  as  the  United  States  of  America,  which,  because  of  its 
influence  and  of  its  power,  dominates  the  new  world,  and,  in  my 
judgment,  always  will. 

The  Lord  made  certain  promises  in  ancient  times  concerning  the 
land  of  Zion — North  and  South  America.  We  are  told  in  the  book 
of  Ether  that  when  the  floods  receded  from  this  land,  it  became  a 
choice  land  unto  the  Lord,  a  land  which  he  would  dedicate  to  free- 
dom, and  hence,  to  free  institutions,  and  unto  a  righteous  people.  That 
is  the  information  we  get  from  our  Book  of  Mormon.  And  later  on, 
in  the  history  of  this  book,  we  get  further  information  as  to  the  de- 
crees of  God  concerning  this  land.    As  follows,  for  instance : 

"And,  he  had  sworn  in  his  wrath  unto  the  brother  of  Jared  that  whoso 
should  possess  this  land  of  promise,  from  that  time  henceforth  and  for- 
ever, should  serve  him,  the  true  and  only  God,  or  they  should  be  swept 
off  when  the  fulness  of  his  wrath  should  come  upon  them." 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS 


15 


Now,  mark  you  this: 

"And  now  we  can  behold  the  decrees  of  God  concerning  this  land, 
that  it  is  a  land  of  promise;  and  whatsoever  nation  shall  possess  it  shall 
serve  God,  or  they  shall  be  swept  off  when  the  fulness  of  his  wrath  shall 
come  upon  them.  And  the  fulness  of  his  wrath  cometh  upon  them  when 
they  are  ripened  in  iniquity. 

"For  behold  this  is  a  land  which  is  choice  above  all  other  lands;  where- 
fore he  that  doth  possess  it  shall  serve  God  or  shall  be  swept  off;  for  it  is 
the  everlasting  decree  of  God.  And  it  is  not  until  the  fulness  of  in- 
iquity among  the  children  of  the  land,  that  they  are  swept  off. 

"And  this  cometh  unto  you,  O  ye  Gentiles,  that  ye  may  know1  the 
decrees  of  God — that  ye  may  repent,  and  not  continue  in  your  iniquities 
until  the  fulness  come,  that  ye  may  not  bring  down  the  fulness  of  the  wrath 
of  God  upon  you  as  the  inhabitants  of  the  land  have  hitherto  done. 

"Behold,  this  is  a  choice  land,  and  whatsoever  nation  shall  possess  it 
shall  be  free  from  bondage  and  from  captivity,  and  from  all  other  nations 
under  heaven,  if  they  will  but  serve  the  God  of  the  land,  who  is  Jesus 
Christ,  who  hath  been  manifested  by  the  things  which  we  have  written." 

I  think  that  is  rather  an  important  message,  national  in  its  scope 
and  spirit,  and  awful  in  its  warning;  and  I  believe  that  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  under  obligation  to  lay  emphasis 
upon  this  part  of  its  mission.  Knowing  the  decrees  of  God  concern- 
ing the  fate  of  the  nation  that  shall  depart  from  God,  and  fill  up  the 
measure  of  its  iniquity,  would  it  not  be  a  great  sin  of  omission  if  we 
did  not  make  proclamation  of  the  decrees  of  God  concerning  this  land? 

In  the  fore  part  of  the  Book  of  Mormon — in  the  writings  of 
Nephi,  there  is  a  message  similar  in  importance.  It  is  in  Second  Ne- 
phi — the  first  chapter,  as  I  now  remember  it;  and  it  there  describes 
in  effect,  the  rise  of  a  great  Gentile  nation  that  shall  be  used  as  an 
instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  in  restoring  Israel  unto  their  pos- 
sessions in  this  land.  There  is  no  escaping  the  inference  that  there 
is  held  in  the  mind  of  the  prophet  the  nation  of  the  United  States,  and 
that  it  should  become  as  a  nursing  father  and  mother  to  the  remnants 
of  Israel  in  this  land,  and  should  be  instrumental  in  bringing  to  pass, 
in  a  large  way,  the  will  of  God  with  reference  to  the  accomplishment 
of  his  purposes  in  the  land.  In  other  words,  it  is  quite  clear  from  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  that  God  has  designed  to  bless  the  Gentile  nations 
upon  this  land  of  Zion,  if  only  they  will  be  true  to  him  and  to  the 
great  principles  of  righteousness  that  enter  into  the  very  attributes 
of  God.  And,  on  the  other  hand,  dire  calamity  is  predicted  upon  the 
proud  Gentile  nation  in  this  land  if  it  fails  God  as  an  instrument  in 
the  accomplishment  of  his  high  purposes.    Lehi  says : 

"Notwithstanding  our  afflictions,  we  have  obtained  a  land  ,of  prom- 
ise— ■"  (referring  to  America) — "a  land  which  is  choice  above  all  other 
lands;  a  land  which  the  Lord  God  hath  covenanted  with  me  should  be  a 
land  for  the  inheritance  of  my  seed.  *  *  *  Wherefore,  I  Lehi  proph- 
esy according  to  the  workings  of  the  Spirit  which  is  in  me,  that  there 
shall  none  come  into  this  land  save  they  shall  be  brought  by  the  hand  of 
the  Lord.  Wherefore,  this  land  is  consecrated  unto  him  whom  he  shall 
bring.    And  if  it  so  be  that  they  shall  serve  him  according  to  the  com- 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


mandments  which  he  hath  given,  it  shall  be:  a  land  of  liberty  unto  them; 
wherefore,  they  shall  never  be  brought  down  into  captivity;  if  so,  it  shall 
be  because  of  iniquity;  for  if  iniquity  shall  abound  cursed  shall  be  the 
land  for  their  sakes,  but  unto  the  righteous  it  shall  be  blessed  forever." 
(II  Nephi  1:5,  6,  7). 

Referring  to  the  time  when  the  Lord  would  begin  to  gather  Israel 
from  their  long  dispersion  from  the  four  parts  of  the  earth,  the  Lord 
says  concerning  the  Gentiles: 

"And  the  nations  of  the  Gentiles  shall  be  great  in  the  eyes  of  me, 
saith  God,  in  carrying  them  forth  to  the  lands  of  their  inheritance. 

"Yea,  the  kings  of  the  Gentiles  shall  be  nursing  fathers  unto  them, 
and  their  queens  shall  become  nursing  mothers;  wherefore,  the  promises 
of  the  Lord  are  great  unto  the  Gentiles,  for  he  hath  spoken  it,  and  who 
can  dispute? 

"But  behold,  this  land,  saith  God,  shall  be  a  land  of  thine  inheritance, 
and  the  Gentiles  shall  be  blessed  upon  the  land 

"And  this  land  shall  be  a  land  of  liberty  unto  the  Gentiles,  and  there 
shall  be  no  kings  upo,n  the  land,  who  shall  raise  up  unto  the  Gentiles. 

"And  I  will  fortify  this  land  against  all  other  nations. 

"And  he  that  fighteth  against  Zion  shall  perish,  saith  God.  *  *  * 
Wherefore,  for  this  cause,  that  my  covenants  may  be  fulfilled  which  I 
have  made  unto  the  children  of  men,  that  I  will  do  unto  them  while  theyj 
are  in  the  flesh,  I  must  needs  destroy  the  secret  works  of  darkness,  and 
of  murders,  and  of  abominations. 

"Wherefore,  he  that  fighteth  against  Zion,  both  Jew  and  Gentile,  both 
'bond  and  free,  both  male  and  female,  shall  perish;  for  they  are  they  who 
are  the  whore  of  all  the  earth;  for  they  who  are  not  for  me  are  against 
me,  saith  our  God. 

"For  I  will  fulfil  my  promises  which  I  have  made  unto  the  children 
of  men,  that  I  will  do  unto  them  while  they  are  in  the  flesh."  (II  Nephi 
10:9-17.) 

In  another  part  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  are  the  very  words  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  himself,  in  relation  to  this  subject — in  Third 
Nephi,  and  having  in  mind  more  especially  the  existence  of  a  great 
Gentile  nation  in  this  land,  which  shall  be  given  very 'exalted  privileges, 
and  upon  whom  shall  be  bestowed  great  power  for  the  accomplishment 
of  God's  purposes: 

"And  blessed  are  the  Gentiles,"  (said  the  Savior)  "because  of  their 
belief  in  me,  in  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  witnesses  unto  them  of  me 
and  of  the  Father. 

"Behold,  because  of  their  belief  in  me,  saith  the  Father,  and  because 
of  the  unbelief  of  you,  O  house  of  Israel,  in  the  latter  day,  shall  the  truth 
come  unto  the  Gentiles,  that  the  fulness  of  these  things  shall  be  made 
know,n  unto  them." 

All  of  which  was  done,  of  course,  in  the  coming  forth  of  the 
dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times,  in  this  land  of  America,  and  under 
the  auspices  of  guaranteed  religious  liberty,  set  forth  in  the  constitu- 
tion of  the  United  States. 

"But  wo,  saith  the  Father,  unto  the  unbeliving  of  the  Gentiles — for 
notwithstanding  they  have  come  forth  upon  the  face  of  this  land,  and 
have  scattered  my  people,  who  are  of  the  house  of  Israel;  and  my  people 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS 


17 


who  are  of  the  house  of  Israel  have  been  cast  out  from  among  them,  and 
have  been  trodden  under  feet  by  them; 

"And  because  of  the  mercies  of  the  Father  unto  the  Gentiles,  and 
also  the  judgments  of  the  Father  upon  my  people  who  are  of  the  house  of 
Israel,  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  that  after  all  this,  and  I  have  caused 
my  people  who  are  of  the  house  of  Israel  to  be  smitten,  and  to  be  afflicted, 
and  to  be  slain,  and  to  be  cast  out  from  among  them,  and  to  become  hated 
by  them,  and  to  become  a  hiss  and  a  by-word  among  them — 

"And  thus  commandeth  the  Father  that  I  should  say  unto  you:  At 
that  day  when  the  Gentiles  shall  sin  against  my  gospel  and  shall  be  lifted 
up  in  the  pride  of  their  hearts  above  all  nations,  and  above  all  the  people 
of  the  whole  earth,  and  shall  be  filled  with  all  manner  of  lyings,  and  of 
deceits,  and  of  mischiefs,  and  all  manner  of  hypocrisy,  and  murders,  and 
priestcrafts,  and  whoredoms,  and  of  secret  abominations;  and  if  they 
shall  do  all  those  things,  and  shall  reject  the  fulness  of  my  gospel,  behold, 
saith  the  Father,  I  will  bring  the  fulness  of  my  gospel  from  among  them." 

I  want  to  suspend  reading  the  remainder  of  this  passage  for  a 
moment,  while  I  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  conditions 
here  named,  as  to  the  Gentile  nation  in  this  land,  are  wonderfully  ful- 
filled. When  this  Book  of  Mormon  came  forth  in  1830,  there  were 
about  twelve  millions  of  people  in  the  United  States;  now  we  have 
nearly  three  times  that  number  in  the  Eastern  States  Mission  alone; 
and  in  all  the  United  States,  we  exceed  by  considerable,  a  hundred  mil- 
lions within  the  borders  of  continental  United  States.  It  was  a  very 
bold  prediction  to  write  in  a  book  in  1830,  when  the  United  States  oc- 
cupied practically  only  the  Atlantic  seaboard,  and  the  Ohio  valley,  to 
some  extent — it  was  a  rather  bold  prediction  to  write  in  a  book  the 
prophesy  that  this  Gentile  nation — the  United  States — would  be  "ex- 
alted above  all  other  nations,  and  above  all  the  people  of  the  whole 
earth."  But  witness  its  fulfilment  today !  It  is  true,  and  this  nation, 
had  in  mind  when  this  prediction  was  sent  forth  in  our  modern  lan- 
guage, was  regarded  merely  as  an  experiment  in  government,  and  no 
such  future  was  ever  dreamed  of  for  it  as  is  here  predicted,  and  now 
fulfilled.  And  also  the  other  and  the  sadder  part  of  it;  namely— 
that  they  would  not  only  be  lifted  up  in  power  above  all  other  nations, 
but  also  they  would  be  filled  with  all  manner  of  lyings  and  deceits, 
and  mischiefs  and  hypocrisies  and  murders  and  priestcrafts  and  whore- 
doms and  of  secret  abominations — "And  if  they  do  all  these  things, 
and  shall  reject  my  gospel — "  and  behold,  that  is  what  the  people  of 
the  United  States  did  when  they  rejected  from  habitation  among  them, 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  expatriated  the 
membership  thereof,  so  that  they  were  under  the  necessity  of  finding 
a  refuge  in  a  land,  which,  at  the  time  our  fathers  entered  it — The 
Salt  Lake  Valley — was  no  part  of  the  United  States  of  America — 
but  was  Mexican  territory. 

Listen  to  this :  it  is  a  revelation  that  we  do  not  often  refer  to,  but 
it  has  some  very  choice  gems  in  it.  It  is  the  "Word  and  Will  of  the 
Lord  to  President  Brigham  Young,"  given  at  Winter  Quarters,  and, 
among  other  things,  this  was  said: 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"Thy  brethren  have  rejected  you  and  your  testimony,  even  the  na- 
tion that  has  driven  you  out ; 

"And  now  cometh  the  day  of  their  calamity,  .even  the  days  of  sorrow, 
like  a  woman  that  is  taken  in  travail;  and  their  sorrow  shall  be  great  unless 
they  speedily  repent,  yea,  very  speedily. 

"For  they  killed  the  prophets,  and  them  that  were  sent  unto  them ; 
and  they  have  shed  innocent  blood,  which  crieth  from  the  ground  against 
them." 

I  think  our  country  at  that  time  did  not  repent  of  the  wrongs 
they  had  done  in  this  and  other  things,  for  this  proclamation  was  im- 
mediately followed  by  the  war  with  Mexico,  in  which  at  least  those 
regiments  that  were  selected  from  western  Illinois — one  of  them  at 
least,  was  well  nigh  wiped  out  of  existence  in  the  war  with  Mexico ; 
and  it  was  about  the  only  disastrous  engagement  that  we  had  in  that 
war.  Then  followed  the  awful  war,  between  1861  and  1865,  in  which, 
as  I  believe,  the  hand  of  God  severely  punished  the  United  States  of 
America,  in  fulfilment  of  the  wonderful  prediction  that  was  made  by 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  in  relation  to  the  calamities  that  would 
befall  the  nation.  But  they  rejected  the  gospel,  and  that  is  foreshad- 
owed in  this  Book  of  Mormon  passage,  and  confirmed  in  the  pas- 
sage in  the  revelation  through  Brigham  Young.  And,  by  the  way,  in 
confirmation  also  of  what  President  Grant  said  about  the  Prophets  Jo- 
seph and  Hyrum  sealing  their  testimony  with  their  blood  this  revela- 
tion has  a  word  on  that  also.  Speaking  of  the  worth  of  the  labors  of 
the  Prophet,  how  he  laid  the  foundation  of  it  and  was  faithful : 

— "And  I  took  him,  to  myself. 

"Many  have  marveled  because  of  his  death;  but  it  was  needful  that 
he  should  seal  his  testimony  with  his  blood,  that  he  might  be  honored  and 
the  wicked  might  ,be  condemned.  Have  I  not  delivered  you  from  your 
enemies,  only  in  that  I  have  left  a  witness  of  my  name?" 

Earth  must  atone ;  the  nation  in  which  he  lived  had  to  atone  for 
the  blood  of  that  just  man — Joseph  Smith — a  prophet — and  I  wit- 
ness to  you  that  our  nation  did  suffer  and  did  atone,  as  I  believe,  for 
the  great  crime  against  human  liberty  and  the  work  of  God,  which,  as 
a  nation,  they  rejected  when  they  expatriated  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

And  now  having  paused  to  note  the  fulfilment  of  this  prophetic 
part  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  passage,  let  us  note  what  follows.  "I  will 
bring  the  fulness  of  my  gospel  from  among  them,"  were  the  last  words 
I  read  in  the  passage  which  I  suspended  reading.  And  now,  contin- 
uing: 

"And  then  will  I  remember  my  covenant  which  I  have  made  unto  my 
people,  O  house  of  Israel,  and  I  will  bring,  my  gospel  unto  them, 

"And  I  will  show  unto  thee,  O  house  of  Israel,  that  the  Gentiles  shall 
not  have  power  over  you;  but  I  will  remember  my  covenant  unto  you,  O 
house  of  Israel,  and  ye  shall  come  unto  the  knowledge  of  the  fulness  of 
my  gospel. 

"But  if  the  Gentiles  will  repent,  and  return  unto  me,  saith  the  Father, 
behold  they  shall  be  numbered  among  my  people,  O  house  of  Israel." 

Notwithstanding  the  list  of  their  abominations — great  as  it  is — ■ 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS 


19 


notwithstanding  their  rejection  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  the 
people  of  God,  yet,  if  they  will  but  repent,  God  promises  to  renew  their 
lot  and  their  part  in  the  glories  of  this  great  Latter-day  work. 

Shall  we  not,  then,  proclaim  to  our  nation  and  to  all  the  inhab- 
itants thereof  this  glorious  promise  that  is  held  out  of  the  Lord  unto 
them  ?  And  the  fact  that  we  have  eight  missions  established  within  the 
boundaries  of  the  United  States,  and  are  laboring  with  all  diligence 
to  make  proclamation  of  the  Gospel — is  it  not  good  evidence  that  God 
is  willing  that  we  should  continue  our  labors  among  the  people  of 
the  United  States  to  bring  them  to  repentance,  and  to  a  participation 
in  these  great  purposes  and'  designs  of  God,  in  relation  to  this  land  of 
Zion  and  the  work  He  designs  to  bring  to  pass  upon  it  ? 

I  continue  the  passage : 

"But  if  the  Gentiles  will  repent  and  return  unto  me,  saith  the  Father, 
behold  they,  shall  be  numbered  among  my  people,  O  house  of  Israel. 

"And  I  will  not  suffer  my  people,  who  are  of  the  house  of  Israel,  to 
go  through  among  them,  and  tread  them  down,  saith  the  Father. 

"But  if  they  will  not  turn  unto  me  and  hearken  unto  my  voice — " 

Then  he  will  suffer  his  people  to  go  through  them  to  destroy 
them,  and  so  following.  I  should  be  pleased  to  read  still  other  words 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  to  the  same  effect.  I  have  read  from  the 
16th  chapter  of  Third  Nephi.  In  the  20th  chapter  all  this  is  practi- 
cally repeated  and  much  more  added,  and  in  these  latter  passages  em- 
phasis is  laid  upon;  the  fact  that  if  the  Gentiles  on  the  land  of  Zion 
will  repent  and  return  unto  the  Lord,  behold  his  mercies  shall  be 
extended  to  them,  and  they  shall  inherit  the  promises  of  God  and 
have  lot  and  part  in  the  glory  and  peace  and  liberty  and  prosperity  that 
God  designs  to  bring  forth  upon  the  land  of  Zion. 

This,  then,  is  what  I  think  constitutes  the  national  phase  of  our 
mission  to  the  United  States — to  make  proclamation  unto  the  inhab- 
itants of  all  the  land  that  these  are  their  opportunities  and  their  bless- 
ings if  only  they  will  extend  their  hands-  and  receive  them.  And,  on 
the  other  hand,  woe  be  unto  them  if  they  hearken  not  unto  the  mes- 
sage of  God,  after  all  His  great  mercies  unto  them. 

I  should  have  been  pleased,  could  time  possibly  have  been  had, 
to  present  to  you  the  full  indictment,  the  indictment  that  is  being 
made  against  the  United  States  for  the  lawlessness  of  its  people,  the 
increase  of  crime  during  the  last  twenty  years  especially,  and  espe- 
cially those  crimes  of  violence  that  end  in  murder,  in  its  various  de- 
grees. In  these  higher  crimes  the  United  States  of  America  is  the 
most  criminal  nation  on  earth  today.  I  must  be  permitted  to  give  at 
least  a  little  evidence  to  this  statement.  On  August  10,  1922,  there 
was  published  in  Current  History,  for  September,  a  Report  of  the  Spe- 
cial Commission  of  Law  Enforcement,  made  at  a  meeting  of  the  Amer- 
ican Bar  Association  at  San  Francisco,  from  which  I  quote  the  fol- 
lowing : 

"From  all  the  data  and  opinions  of  experts  which  your  committee 
has  been  able  to  gather,  we  beg  leave  to  report  that — particularly  since 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


1890 — there  has  been,  and  continues,  a  widening,  deepening  tide  of  law- 
lessness in  this  country,  sometimes  momentarily  receding,  to  swell  again 
into  greater  depth  and  intensity.  At  intervals  this  tide  billows  into  waves 
that  rise  and  break  but  only  for  a  time  attracting  public  attention.  *  *  * 
The  criminal  situation  in  the  United  States,  so  far  as  crimes  of  violence 
are  concerned,  is  worse  than  that  in  any  other  civilized  country.  Here 
there  is  less  respect  for  law.  While  your  committee  cannot  obtain  the 
exact  figures,  from  all  available  sources  of  information  we  estimate  that 
there  were  more  than  9,500  unlawful  homicides  last  year  in  this  country; 
that  in  1920  there  occurred  not  less  than  9,000  such  homicides,  and  that 
in  no  year  during  the  last  ten  years  did  the  number  fall  below  8,500.  In 
other  words,  during  the  last  ten  years,  no  less  than  85,000  of  our  citizens 
have  perished  by  poison,  by  the  pistol  or  the  knife,  or  by  some  other  un- 
lawful and  deadly  instrument.  Burglaries  have  increased  in  this  country 
during  the  past  ten  years  1,200  per  cent. 

"We  deem  it  important  to  note  the  material  difference  between  the 
character  of  crime  conditions  prevailing  here  and  those  abroad.  Our  re- 
gretab'e  eminence  is  due  in  most  part  to  crimes  of  violence  against  the 
person  and  property.  In  1910,  out  of  the  58,800  confined  in  our  State  and 
Federal  prisons,  15,316,  or  more  than  25  per  cent  of  all  prisoners,  had  com- 
mitted homicides.  While  of  course  this  number  includes  the  accumulation 
of  years,  this  awful  fact  still  bears  its  own  significance.  The  evidence  be- 
fore us  shows  that  there  has  been  since  1910  a  steady  and  terrible  in- 
crease not  only  in  homicides,  but  also  in  burglaries  and  robberies.  One 
State  has  in  its  different  prisons  3,547  inmates;  of  these  1,429  are  guilty 
of  taking  the  lives  of  human  beings.  *  *  *  Crime  and  lawlessness  in 
the  United  States  have  been  steadily  on  the  increase  and  out  o.'  propor- 
tion to  our  growth,  and  there  has  been  a  steady  and  growing  disrespect  for 
law.  In  our  opinion  this  is  not  a  result  of  the  war.  We  do  not  find  the 
proportional  increase  in  crime  from  1916  to  1922  greater  than  from  1910 
to  1916,  and  we  have  not  been  able  to  discover  that  crimes  of  violence 
have  materially  increased  in  France,  England  or  Canada  during  or  since 
the  war,  although  the  effects  of  the  war  naturally  must  be  more  marked 
in  those  countries." 

In  the  face  of  these  conditions,  of  the  truth  of  which  there  can 
be  no  question — is  it  not  necessary  to  sound  this  note  of  warning 
against  lawlessness  throughout  the  United  States?  I  am  happy  in 
the  thought  that  the  President  of  our  Church — God's  prophet  in  the 
earth — in  his  opening  remarks  this  morning  put  his  finger  upon  the  one 
great  fact  and  uttered  a  warning  that  ought  to  be  stressed — a  warn- 
ing against  the  lawlessness  that  obtains  throughout  our  country.  It  is 
fitting  that  his  voice  should  sound  the  key-note  of  warning,  because 
that  is  what  God  would  have  the  people  of  the  United  States  warned 
of — the  wickedness  that  exists  among  them,  and  the  calamity  that 
will  follow  if  they  do  not  repent. 

I  bear  witness  to  you,  from  my  heart,  that  the  inspiration  of  God 
has  dictated  to  our  President  the  Key-note  words  of  warning  in  this 
conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  May 
we  sense  the  responsibility  resting  upon  us  as  a  great  missionary 
Church  in  the  earth,  charged  with  the  solemn  duty  of  calling  men  to 
repentance,  and  warning  nations  against  the  fate  that  awaits  the  na- 
tion that  lapses  into  lawlessness,  crime,  and  unrighteousness;  for  God, 
in  these  things  will  not  be  mocked.  May  we  sense  our  duty  and  re- 
sponsibility is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  21 


A  number  of  notices  were  given  out,  including  the  announcement 
that  the  general  Priesthood  meeting  would  be  held  in  the  Tabernacle 
on  Saturday,  at  7  o'clock;  and  the  Sunday  School  Union  meeting 
would  be  held  on  Sunday  evening  at  7  o'clock. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "High  on  the  mountain  top." 

Elder  James  Duckworth,  President  of  the  Blackfoot  stake  of 
Zion,  pronounced  the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

At  2  o'clock  President  Heber  J.  Grant  opened  the  afternoon  meet- 
ing by  announcing  that  the  choir  and  congregation  would  sing,  "We 
thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet." 

After  singing,  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph  E.  Cardon, 
president  of  the  Cache  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  favorite  hymn  of  the  late 
beloved  President  Anthon  H.  Lund,  "O  say,  what  is  Truth  ?" 

PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 

) 

More  than  ever  in  my  life,  I  feel  this  afternoon  that  I  need  the 
help  of  the  Lord  in  endeavoring  to  address  a  congregation  of  his  people 
in  conference  assembled. 

I  hope  I  shall  be  able  to  make  you  hear  my  words,  and  that  what- 
ever I  say  may  be  under  the  spirit  of  inspiration  from  above.  I  have 
been  suffering  for  sometime  from  what  we  popularly  call  "a  cold," 
although  I  believe  I  contracted  it  in  the  heat.  I  do  sometimes,  on  rail- 
roads, feeling  oppressed  with  the  heat  of  the  car  in  which  I  am  travel- 
ing, catch  what  is  called  a  cold;  but  I  trust  that  with  the  help  of  the 
Lord,  and  your  attention  and  faith,  I  may  be  able  to  overcome  the  ef- 
fects of  this  disorder  and  to  speak  so  that  you  can  hear  and  understand. 

TRUTH  AND  THE  PRACTICE  OF  TRUTH' 

I  believe  every  word  of  the  hymn  which  we  have  just  sung.  Truth 
is  a  great  thing,  and  next  to  it,  perhaps  quite  on  a  level  with  it,  is  the 
practice  of  truth.  Jesus  Christ,  according  to  the  New  Testament,  of- 
fered a  prayer  to  his  Father,  concerning  his  disciples,  his  apostles  par- 
ticularly, and  he  said :  "Lord,  sanctify  them  by  the  truth ;  thy  word 
is  truth."  We  can  always  depend  upon  the  word  of  the  Lord,  for  his 
word  is  truth,  and  "truth  abideth  and  hath  no  end." 

Truth,  speaking  of  it  in  the  abstract,  has  no  beginning.  Truth  is 
eternal,  without  beginning  of  days  or  end  of  life.  The  power  and 
ability  to  receive  truth  is  a  great  thing — that  is  a  gift  which  I  believe  is 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


largely  bestowed  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  believe  there  is  some- 
thing in  our  racial  connection  which  has  to  do  with  this.  It  is  evident 
to  me  that  in  the  last  days  the  Lord  has  wrought  mightily  upon  the 
descendants  of  the  house  of  Israel.  We  have  in  the  Church,  the  office 
of  patriarch,  and  those  who  hold  it  are  supposed  to  be  specially  in- 
spired of  the  Lord  to  bless  the  people  upon  whom  they  lay  their  hands, 
and  to  reveal  to  them  what  tribe  they  belong  to  ;  and  the  blessings 
that  have  come  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  chiefly  been  that  they 
are  of  the  house  of  Israel,  and  the  majority  of  them,  at  any  rate,  of 
the  tribe  of  Ephraim,  and  the  Lord  has  said  that  they  would  be  first 
in  his  work  in  the  latter-days. 

A  SPECIAL  MISSION  FOR  THE  HOUSE  OF  ISRAEL 

I  believe  there  is  a  special  mission  intended  for  the  house  of 
Israel  in  the  latter  days,  gathered  in  from  the  various  nations,  and 
principally  it  will  be  of  the  tribe  of  Ephraim,  and  that  through  them 
the  blessing  and  power  of  God  will  go  to  the  world,  and  particularly 
to  the  descendants  of  Abraham,  the  father  of  nations  and  the  head  of 
his  race. 

I  had  a  conversation  with  a  gentleman  a  short  time  ago,  who  is 
connected  perhaps  rather  remotely,  with  this  Church,  and  he  told  me 
that  he  had  a  blessing  from  a  patriarch  many  years  ago,  when  he  was 
a  boy,  and  he  never  liked  it,  for  the  reason  that  he  was  told  therein  he 
was  a  descendant  of  Abraham,  and  he  did  not  like  the  idea  of  descend- 
ing from  a  Jew.  When  I  informed  him  that  Abraham  was  not  a  Jew, 
he  seemed  to  be  very  much  surprised.  He  said :  'What,  Abraham 
not  a  Jew!"  "No,"  I  said,  "He  was  not  a  Jew.  He  was  dead  long 
before  any  Jews  were  born."  The  name  of  Jew  comes  from  the  tribe 
of  Judah.  Abraham,  the  father  of  our  race,  and,  as  we  believe,  our  father 
on  earth,  so  far  as  family  is  concerned,  was  "the  friend  of  God,"  and 
God  blessed  him  and  his  posterity,  because,  he  said,  they  would  do  his 
will  and  obey  him,  and  they  should  "keep  the  way  of  the  Lord." 

Now,  I  think  that  we  who  are  of  that  race,  are  naturally  so  dis- 
posed; that  there  is  something  with  us  that  tends  to  our  willingness 
to  accept  the  truth  when  it  comes  from  God.  I  do  not  mean  to  say 
that  this  is  confined  to  us,  but  that  particularly  those  who  are  of 
the  house  of  Ephraim  are  ready  to  receive  the  word  and  act  accord- 
ing to  it  as  the  Lord  shall  direct. 

OUR  STANDING  WITH  REGARD  TO  CIVIL  LAW 

I  bear  testimony  to  you  that  all  we  heard  this  morning  from, 
our  president,  for  our  guidance  and  direction  and  enlightenment,  is 
true  and  is  very  good.  The  sections  from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
and  other  things  that  he  presented  here,  are  the  divine  word  of  truth. 
I  have  been  familiar  with  them  for  many  years.  The  section  which 
pertains  to  our  intercourse  and  position  in  regard  to  civil  affairs — 
the  affairs  of  governments  in  general,  have  been  familiar  to  me, 
because  from  the  time  that  I  was  a  boy,  when  I  embraced  the  gospel, 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  IV.  PENROSE  23 


I  have  believed  in  them  and  rejoiced  in  them — the  plain,  simple,  but 
powerful  declaration  of  our  standing  with  regard  to  civil  matters  and 
affairs  of  Government.  We  are  therein  exhorted  to  be  obedient  to  the 
laws.  One  of  the  revelations  of  God  which  supports  that,  states  that 
if  we  obey  the  laws  of  God,  we  have  no  need  to  break  the  laws  of 
the  land.  That  has  been  qualified  somewhat  by  a  further  revelation 
that  all  constitutional  laws  we  should  observe  to  uphold,  for  they  are 
from  God.  We  believe  that  he  inspired  the  writers  of  the  Constitution 
of  the  United  States,  that  they  were  led  by  his  Spirit  when  they  com- 
posed that  splendid  pronouncement  of  government  and  law.  Of  course 
we  have  had  views  different  from  some  of  our  friends  in  regard  to 
what  shall  be  considered  constitutional  and  what  should  be  considered 
unconstitutional,  and  those  are  questions  that  have  been  raised  almost 
from  the  beginning  of  our  establishment  as  a  nation.  But  there  is  a 
provision  in  the  constitution  of  this  country,  which  gives  to  the  su- 
preme court  of  the  United  States  authority  and  power  to  determine 
what  is  constitutional.  We  had  some  ideas  concerning  what  we  con- 
sidered unconstitutional,  which  had  crept  into  certain  laws.  We  can 
entertain  just  what  view  we  may  think  right  in  regard  to  them  now, 
but  we  have  to  obey  that  which  the  supreme  court  of  the  United  States 
decides  is  constitutional  law,  so  we  are  told  in  the  revelations  of  God. 
This  we  have  been  endeavoring  to  do  and  to  conform  as  far  as  pos- 
sible to  those  laws  which  have  been  declared  to  be  the  constitutional 
laws  of  the  land. 

The  Lord  has  told  us  in  regard  to  matters  in  general,  and  the 
doctrine  and  principle,  and  particularly  in  regard  to  the  laws  concern- 
ing marriage — the  union  of  the  sexes — that  what  he  has  not  appointed, 
that  which  he  has  not  ordained,  that  which  he  has  not  commanded, 
"shall  have  an  end  when  men  are  dead,  and  they  shall  not  continue 
in  nor  after  the  resurrection,"  saith  the  Lord,  our  God.  He  will  only 
receive  those  offerings,  he  says,  which  he  has  appointed;  and  that  is 
a  very  good  guide. 

ORDER  IN  THE  HOUSE  OF  THE  LORD 

There  is  another  thing:  "My  house  is  a  house  of  order,  saith 
the  Lord ;"  and  as  we  have  seen  exhibited  in  the  organization  of  this 
Church,  which  he,  himself  has  established  in  the  latter  days,  it  is 
really  a  house  of  order,  for  everything  in  it  is  in  order,  according  to 
that  which  we  understand  to  be  his  divine  will,  in  regard  to  the  laws, 
commandments,  doctrines  and  discipline,  and  all  matters  concerning 
his  Church  and  our  work  therein. 

One  of  these  things,  which  is  very  important  for  us  to  under- 
stand, and  which  has  been  taught  from  the  very  beginning  of  the 
organization  of  the  Church,  on  the  6th  day  of  April  in  the  year  1830, 
is  that  the  head  of  the  Church — a  prophet,  a  seer,  and  a  revelator — 
shall  be  appointed  by  him  to  receive  the  oracles,  to  give  the  com- 
mandments, the  revelations  and  doctrines  in  the  Church.  This  I 
consider  and  always  have  considered,  to  be  a  very  wise  provision.  We 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


are  all  permitted,  under  the  laws  of  the  United  States,  under  the  con- 
stitution of  the  United  States,  and  under  the  revelations  of  God,  to 
believe  in  that  which  seems  right  and  true  to  us.  Sometimes  we  do 
not  know  how  to  determine  what  is  true  and  what  is  false,  but  we 
can  all  come  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth  if  we  are  humble  and 
tractable  and  willing  to  place  ourselves  in  the  order  that  God  has  es- 
tablished. 

CONCERNING  DREAMS,  VISIONS  AND  REVELATIONS 

We  hear  a  good  deal  in  these  times  about  manifestations  to  in- 
dividuals. These  are  proper  in  their  place,  for  those  who  receive  them. 
The  gifts  of  the  gospel,  which  we  read  about  in  the  New  Testament, 
are  all  restored  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
The  gift  of  tongues,  interpretation  of  tongues,  the  gift  of  prophecy,  the 
gift  of  healing,  the  gift  of  discerning  of  spirits,  etc.,  etc.,  that  we  read 
about  in  the  epistle  of  Paul  to  the  Corinthians,  are  all  in  this  Church. 
I  have  been  blessed  with  seeing  and  participating  in  most,  if  not  all, 
of  these  gifts  that  we  read  about,  and  they  belong  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints  just  as  much  as  they  belonged  to  the  former  day  Saints;  and 
according  to  the  prophet  Joel,  that  after  certain  wonders  have  been 
accomplished — the  great  things  of  the  latter  days,  the  Lord  says:  "I 
will  pour  out  my  Spirit  upon  all  flesh  and  your  old  men  shall  dream 
dreams  and  your  young  men  shall  see  visions ;  also  upon  my  servants 
and  handmaidens  will  I  pour  out  my  Spirit."  That  is  a  great  bless- 
ing yet  to  come  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  for  the  result  will  be 
as  another  prophet  has  declared,  that  "the  earth  shall  be  filled  with 
the  knowledge  of  God  as  the  waters  cover  the  great  deep." 

Now,  all  these  things  will  be  brought  about  in  due  order,  accord- 
ing to  the  mind  and  will  of  God,  for  his  Church  is  established  on  that 
basis.  The  man  who  stands  at  the  head  of  the  Church  is  the  one  to 
receive  revelations  and  commandments  to  the  Church,  and  we  are  com- 
manded of  the  Lord  to  receive  "none  other."  I  will  not  take  time 
to  read  from  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  in  regard  to  that, 
but  I  recommend  my  brethren  who  have  not  done  so,  and  some  of  those 
who  have,  to  get  it  in  their  minds  anew ;  that  they  read  the  43rd  sec- 
tion of  that  book  where  that  principle  is  plainly  set  forth  under  com- 
mandment to  this  Church,  so  that  while  it  may  be  true  that  the  Lord 
will  pour  out  his  Spirit  upon  individuals  for  their  good,  for  their 
benefit,  for  their  comfort,  for  their  consolation,  for  their  enlighten- 
ment ;  while  the  Lord  will  do  this  by  dream  and  by  vision  and  by 
tongues  and  by  the  gift  of  prophecy,  etc.,  that  these  things  he  gives 
to  his  people  are  for  them  individually  but  not  for  the  Church  as  an 
organization.  When  he  has  anything  to  give  to  the  Church  by  way  of 
revelation  or  commandment,  for  the  enlightenment  of  the  Church,  for 
the  government  of  the  Church,  to  guide  and  direct  them  in  the  right 
path,  in  the  only  way — for  there  is  but  one — it  will  come  through  him 
whom  he  has  appointed — the  head  of  the  Church — who  presides  over 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 


25 


the  Church  and  has  the  right  arid  privilege  to  receive  from  the  Lord 
inspiration  and  power  like  that  given  unto  Moses  of  old.  This  is  a 
guide  for  you  and  for  me  and  for  all  of  us  in  the  Church. 

There  are  many  divine  dreams  we  can  read  about  in  the  Old  Testa- 
ment, some  in  the  New  Testament,  that  are  evidently  given  from  the 
Lord,  and  they  are  a  great  blessing  so  far  as  they  are  intended  to 
go  but  no"  further,  and  we  must  be  very  careful  to  distinguish  what 
the  Lord  reveals  to  individuals,  or  what  they  think  is  revelation 
from  the  Lord,  and  what  the  Lord  positively  declares  he  gives  to  us 
only  in  the  order  that  he  has  appointed.  "For,  my  house  is  a  house  of 
order,  saith  the  Lord,  and  not  a  house  of  confusion."  This  Church 
was  organized  by  the  gift  and  power  of  God.  The  Book  of  Mormon 
was  revealed  by  the  gift  and  power  of  God  to'  one  individual,  and 
he  was  called  and  appointed  for  that  work  and  he  performed  it,  and 
there  is  abundant  evidence  to  prove  that  it  was  a  divine  appointment, 
and  that  the  translation  which  was  made  by  him  by  the  gift  and  power 
of  God  is  verily  true,  and  is  translated  so  as  to  be  pleasing  to  and 
accepted  by  the  Lord.  That  is  a  good  guide  for  us,  as  the  Old  Testa- 
ment and  the  New  Testament  are  guides  as  far  as  they  give  us  any 
counsel  and  advice  by  way  of  commandment  from  on  high.  And  the 
blessing  that  the  Lord  bestows  sometimes  upon  people,  of  giving  them 
communications  by  dream  at  night,  or  vision  by  day,  are  for  themselves. 
I  can  testify  that  the  Lord  has  done  that  for  me,  but  I  have  not  made 
known  that  which  was  given  to  me  for  my  own  comfort  and  my  ad- 
vice and  my  benefit.  I  have  had  dreams  which  I  have  to  acknowledge 
were  divine,  because  they  were  fulfilled  to  the  very  letter — clearly 
given  and  clearly  made  manifest,  and  clearly  brought  into  actual  be- 
ing— but  they  were  for  me  and  for  my  guidance  and  direction,  and 
sometimes  they  were  of  such  a  nature  that  they  appeared  to  me  to  be 
almost  trivial,  to  think  that  the  Lord  would  reveal  to  me  certain  things 
that  were  of  very  small  moment.  They  only  affected  me  and  those 
with  whom  I  was  associated  in  the  ministry,  they  came  to  pass  in 
very  deed,  but  I  have  not  had  them  put  on  record  nor  had  them  pub- 
lished or  spread  abroad.   I  did  not  think  that  would  be  right. 

During  my  experience,  when  succeeding  President  Grant  as  Presi- 
dent over  the  European  mission,  I  had  some  manifestations  in  regard 
to  my  duties  and  to  guide  me  in  what  I  had  to  do  when  I  was  what 
we  vulgarly  call  "up  a  stump.''  I  was  "up  against  it,"  did  not  know 
what  course  to  pursue  but  the  Lord  made  manifest  to  me  what  to 
do  and  I  did  it,  and  it  came  out  all  right  in  the  end.  I  believe  in  the 
doctrine  of  waiting  upon  the  Lord,  and  I  have  a  special  belief  in  the 
doctrine  of  Paul,  for  I  have  found  it  to  be  true  all  my  life,  in  which 
he  says :  "We  know  that  all  things  work  together  for  good  to  them 
that  love  the  Lord  and  are  called  according  to  his  purposes."  I  know 
that  doctrine  is  true.  Events  have  occurred  in  my  life  at  times  when 
I  could  not  tell  which  course  to  take,  and  in  my  duties  in  some  re- 
spects; in  the  mission  I  have  referred  to,  it  was  particularly  so,  and  I 
will  not  take  up  the  time  of  the  congregation  to  explain  any  further, 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


only  that  I  know  that  word  of  the  Apostle  is  true.  We  know  that  all 
things  work  together  for  good  to  them  that  love  the  Lord  and  are 
called  according  to  his  purposes,  and  we  can  trust  in  the  Lord  and  obey 
his  word,  and  we  can  trust  in  that  which  he  reveals  to  the  man  who  is 
placed  at  the  head  to  declare  and  to  bring  forth  by  way  of  command- 
ment and  revelation,  and  if  we  will  take  that  little  guide  that  God  has 
given  us  in  the  section  I  have  referred  to — Section  43 — we  will  not  be 
led  astray. 

Now,  dreams  are  very  peculiar  things.  I  have  had  some  recently. 
They  were  very  clear  and  plain.  I  have  dreamed  several  times  that  I 
had  passed  out  of  the  body  and  was  in  the  other  world,  and  I  saw 
things  and  heard  things  that  seemed  to  me  to  be  just  as  plain  and  just 
as  clear  as  if  I  were  actually  out  of  the  body,  but  when  I  came  to  wake 
up  and  weigh  what  I  had  seen  I  found  it  was  only  a  dream.  Just 
what  the  cause  of  it  was  I  cannot  tell.  There  are  various  causes  for 
dreaming.  The  wise  man,  as  he  was  called,  Solomon,  said,  "In  the 
multitude  of  dreams  and  words,  there  be  divers  vanities,"  and  I  have 
dreamed  a  great  deal  that  was  nothing  but  vanity  and  followed  by  a 
vexation  of  spirit. 

A  lady  who  was  a  great  believer  in  dreams,  came  to  me  once,  and 
wanted  me  to  give  the  interpretation  to  one  of  them.  She  dreamed 
some  very  peculiar  things,  "And,  Brother  Penrose,"  she  said,  "just 
give  me  the  interpretation."  I  did  not  want  to  offend  her.  I  saw 
there  was  nothing  in  them  of  any  particular  moment  so  I  said,  "Sister, 
what  did  you  have  for  supper  last  night?"  You  know  in  England,  (it 
was  in  England)  they  often  have  very  late  suppers.  "Well,  Brother 
Penrose,"  she  said,  "I  had  some  fried  pork  and  onions."  "Well,"  I 
said,  "that  is  the  interpretation."  I  do  not  want  you  to  infer  from 
this  that  when  the  Lord  gives  a  dream  to  anybody,  or  persons  dream 
something  which  is  enlightening*  to  their  souls  and  comforting  to  their 
hearts  and  seems  to  be  clear  and  plain,  I  wish  to  attribute  that  to  any- 
thing else  but  what  they  think  it  is ;  but  I  do  say  and  repeat,  that 
nothing  is  to  be  received  in  this  Church  by  way  of  direction  and  com- 
mandment, outside  of  the  order  which  God  has  established  in  his 
Church,  and  which  is  most  wise  and  beneficent  and  beneficial.  Follow 
the  counsel  and  advice  and  commandment  revealed  through  the  head 
of  the  Church  to  the  Church  and  we  will  not  go  wrong. 

THE  WORK   PROSPERS   UNDER  THE  PRESENT  ADMINISTRATION 

I  enjoyed  the  meeting  this  morning  very  much.  I  enjoyed  those 
readings  to  which  we  were  treated  by  the  president.  I  believe  in  them 
fully  and  entirely.  I  am  sure  they  are  true  and  good,  and  I  know 
that  the  work  which  is  now  going  forward  in  the  earth  is  being  pros- 
pered under  our  present  administration.  I  bear  witness,  not  only  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  indeed  a  prophet  of  the  living  God,  but 
that  he  was  raised  up  purposely  in  this  dispensation  to  usher  in  the 
dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times,  under  the  direction  of  Jesus 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  27 


Christ,  the  Lord,  whom  Joseph  was  told  to  heed  and  listen  to;  and  that 
our  leaders,  down  from  the  prophet  Joseph,  after  his  martyrdom,  have 
been  inspired  of  God  and  have  been  made  fit  for  the  work  which  was 
entrusted  to  them.  It  is  so  today.  I  have  the  privilege  and  blessing 
of  being  very  close  to  our  present  president.  I  have  been  familiar 
with  several  who  have  passed  away,  had  their  confidence,  I  am  proud 
and  blessed  in  saying,  and  their  good  will.  Sometimes  they  have  re- 
ceived my  ideas  and  my  word  of  advice,  sometimes  they  have  not, 
but  I  know  they  have  been  men  of  God,  and  I  do  know  that  everyone 
of  them  has  had  his  soul  set  upon  doing  what  God  wanted,  and  to 
benefit  the  people;  that  they  did  not  seek  their  own  aggrandizement 
nor  their  own  personal  benefit,  but  they  sought  the  mind  and  will  of 
God,  and  they  were  prayerful  men ;  they  were  kind-hearted  men ;  they 
were  humble  and  willing  to  do  that  which  the  Lord  required  of  them 
and  which  was  made  known  to  them.  Sometimes  things  were  mani- 
fested to  some  of  them  that  they  did  not  agree  with  in  spirit  until 
they  received  the  manifestation,  but  when  it  was  made  clear  to  them 
what  they  ought  to  do,  they  have  done  it  and  the  Lord  has  been  with 
them  and  he  will  be  with  them,  as  he  has  been  with  his  servant  who 
now  stands  at  the  head  of  our  Church,  and  I  rejoice  in  having  his  con- 
fidence and  good  will  and  that  I  am  able  to  pray  for  him  as  I  do 
every  day,  that  he  may  be  filled  with  the  spirit  of  his  office  and  calling; 
and  he  has  it,  and  so  have  his  brethren  who  are  associated  with  him 
as  leaders  in  the  Church. 

THE  GOSPEL   IS  TO  ALL  NATIONS 

This  morning's  conference  was  a  wonder.  A  great  congregation 
gathered  here.  I  thought  to  myself,  in  a  kind  of  humorous  vein — 
how  clearly  this  proves  the  assertion  of  the  world  that  "Mormonism" 
is  going  down,  particularly  that  the  third  generation  of  "Mormons" 
will  discontinue  their  faith !  And  while  I  was  thinking  of  that,  Brother 
Ivins,  who  was  sitting  next  to  me,  had  the  same  idea,  no  doubt,  be- 
cause he  made  the  same  remark.  Well,  it  is  wonderful !  Is  it  not 
wonderful  how  we  were  gathered  here  this  morning  to  demonstrate 
the  untruth  of  what  is  said  concerning  the  going  down  of  "Mormon- 
ism." "Mormonism"  is  spreading  and  prevailing.  "Mormonism," 
so-called,  is  fulfiling  its  mission  in  the  world.  It  was  established  by 
the  Father  and  the  Son,  and  angels  have  come  from  them  to  the 
servants  of  God  on  the  earth,  and  brought  great  truths  for  the  benefit 
and  salvation  of  the  children  of  men,  and  we  are  called  and  appointed 
to  carry  this  message  to  all  the  world.  This  is  not  only  to  individ- 
uals, but,  as  somewhat  touched  upon  by  Brother  Roberts  this  morn- 
ing, it  is  to  "every  nation  and  tongue  and  people;"  it  is  as  Jesus 
Christ  told  his  apostles,  to  every  creature — "Go  ye  into  all  the  world," 
said  he,  "and  preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature.  He  that  believeth 
and  is  baptized  shall  be  saved,  and  he  that  believeth  not  shall  be 
damned;  and  these  signs  shall  follow  them  that  believe — "    You  can 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


read  what  they  are,  in  the  New  Testament.  I  believe  in  every  word 
of  that;  and  now,  in  these  the  last  days,  the  Lord  has  repeated  it  to 
us.  He  says  that  we  are  his  messengers.  What  he  revealed  to  Orson 
Hyde  and  some  other  elders,  as  we  read  in  the  book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  Section  42,  is  to  all  of  us,  to  all  his  servants  who  are 
sent  to  the  world;  they  are  to  go  forth  and  preach  this  to  everybody. 
I  have  tried  to  do  my  part  in  the  good  work.  Brother  Grant  has  had 
a  wide  field  of  labor  ever  since  the  time  when  he  was  ordained  one 
of  the  twelve  apostles.  He  has  labored  in  all  the  nations  he  has  spoken 
about. 

READY  TO  WEAR  OUT  IN  THE  SERVICE  OF  GOD 

I  hold  in  my  pocket  here  today,  my  Elder's  certificate,  I  was 
called  to  go  forth  and  preach  the  gospel  without  purse  or  scrip,  to 
carry  the  message  wherever  I  could,  and  I  was  ordained,  according 
to  my  certificate,  on  the  6th  day  of  January,  1851.  I  continued  dil- 
igently in  that  work  until  I  was  released  to  come  here,  a  little  over 
ten  years  afterwards,  and  then  I  have  been  back  there  three  times 
since  then,  and  it  is  all  right.  I  have  nothing  to  complain  about ; 
I  rejoice  in  these  things,  and  I  am  still  endeavoring  to  do  my  part 
in  the  work.  Many  of  you  old  Saints  here  will  remember  Brother 
George  B.  Wallace,  who  was  one  of  the  presidency  of  the  Salt  Lake 
stake  of  Zion  many  years  ago.  He  was  on  a  mission  in  England 
with  Daniel  Spencer,  and  they  were  counselors  to  the  president  of  .the 
European  Mission.  He  came  to  me,  when  I  was  called  very  un- 
expectedly when  quite  a  young  fellow,  to  the  office  in  Jewin  Street, 
London,  and  I  was  ordained  an  elder  on  that  occasion,  and  told  what 
my  mission  was,  and  he  looked  at  me  as  if  he  would  look  me  through, 
and  said:  "Brother  Penrose,  it  is  expected  of  the  elders  of  Israel  in 
these  last  days,  that  they  will  wear  themselves  out  in  the  service  of 
God,  and  it  is  better  to  wear  out  than  to  rust  out."  Now,  that  ad- 
monition given  to  me  then  has  been  with  me  all  the  time  in  my  work 
in  the  Church.  I  am  ready  to  wear  myself  out  in  the  service  of  God, 
to  try  to  carry  out  the  admonition  that  we  are  to  be  willing  to  do  all 
things,  sacrifice  all  things,  even  to  the  laying  down  of  our  lives,  if 
necessary,  for  this  great  work,  and  it  is  worth  it,  it  is  worth  all  that 
and  a  great  deal  more.  It  is  worth  all  our  being,  is  this  work  that  we 
are  engaged  in. 

THE  WORK  IN  THIS  GREAT  CAUSE  SHOULD  BE  DONE  CHEERFULLY 

The  idea  that  men  have  to  be  stirred  up  by  teachers  or  other 
officers  to  do  their  little  duties  in  the  Church,  and  particularly  in  the 
Priesthood,  is  a  wonder  to  me — why  a  man  should  have  to  be  urged 
to  stand  forward  and  minister  in  the  things  of  God,  to  make  himself 
well  informed  as  to  all  that  is  to  be  done,  and  to  do  his  part  is  a  mystery. 
He  ought  to  be  glad  in  heart,  cheerful  in  spirit,  and  disposed  always 
to  do  his  little  bit,  or  great  bit,  if  it  is  a  great  bit  to  him.  Everything 
that  we  have  is  from  the  Lord.    All  items  of  information,  every 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  29 


testimony  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  which  we  have  enjoyed  so  many  times 
during  all  these  years,  are  from  God,  not  from  men,  it  is  to  me,  and  I 
am  thankful  for  every  manifestation  of  light  and  intelligence  and 
understanding  in  the  things  of  God  that  has  come  to  me,  and  I  have 
had  that  disposition  and  have  it  today,  to  do  anything  and  everything 
that  lies  in  my  power. 

TESTIMONY 

I  regret  to  say  that  my  eyesight  is  failing  very  fast.  There  is  no 
disease  in  my  eyes,  no  pain  in  them,  thank  God;  I  have  been  freed 
from  the  pains  that  I  endured  for  a  while  in  my  body;  my  physical 
organization,  through  the  blessing  and  gift  of  God,  through  his  inspir- 
ing power,  in  answer  to  prayers.  I  am  thankful  today  for  this,  but 
I  have  worn  out  my  eyesight,  so  to  speak,,  in  working  for  this  Church 
and  people,  and  for  myself  therein.  Everything  I  have  been  able  to 
do  for  the  Church  has  also  been  done  for  me;  it  has  blessed  me  and 
comforted  me  and  opened  to  me  the  things  of  eternity,  in  which  I 
rejoice  with  all  my  heart  and  soul,  and  am  glad  to  be  able  to  bear 
testimony,  once  more  in  the  midst  of  the  congregation,  that  I  know 
this  is  God's  work ;  I  know  he  commenced  it ;  I  know  he  is  carrying 
it  on  now ;  I  know  it  will  prevail ;  I  know  it  will  conquer  every  evil ; 
truth  will  overcome  error,  under  the  inspiration  of  God,  under  the 
labors  of  his  servants ;  light  will  dissipate  the  darkness ;  misrule  will 
pass  away,  and  the  government  of  God  will  be  established  upon  the 
earth,  and  Christ  will  be  our  king  just  as  sure  as  we  are  gathered 
here  in  this  tabernacle  this  afternoon.  And  we  are  the  children  of 
God.  We  are  of  the  right  family  and  race.  God  has  called  us,  every- 
one, male  and  female,  men,  women  and  children  who  are  born  in  the 
covenant;  they  are  all  especially  sacred  to  the  Lord  and  his  work. 
Under  the  divine  direction,  through  the^  order  that  he  has  established 
in  his  Church,  we  should  be  ready  and 'willing  to  take  our  place  and 
labor  with  all  our  might  and  do  everything  we  can  to  promote  this 
great  work. 

CONSECRATION  AND  LIBERTY  OF  THE  SAINTS 

Now,  in  regard  to  the  liberties  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  I  can 
say  this  that  in  all  my  associations  with  the  leaders  of  the  Church, 
past  and  present,  I  have  never  been  coerced  or  compelled,  or  com- 
manded to  do  things  that  were  contrary  to  my  own  feelings  and  good 
will ;  what  I  have  done,  I  have  done  voluntarily  in  the  exercise  of  that 
God-given  gift,  the  gift  of  agency,  which  God  says  he  gave  to  man. 
Yes,  we  are  indebted  to  God  for  that.  When  we  were  first  born  in 
the  spirit  world  our  agency  was  given  to  us — when  we  were  begotten 
or  organized  or  created,  whatever  you  are  pleased  to  call  it — it  all 
means  the  same  thing — we  were  begotten  unto  the  Lord,  as  the  presi- 
dent read  this  morning  from  the  great  Vision. 

Well,  we  should  be  consecrated  to  him  and  ready  to  labor  for 
him,  for  when  we  are  laboring  for  him,  we  are  laboring  for  ourselves, 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


with  all  the  truth  we  can  gather  to  our  souls,  all  the  intelligence  that 
can  be  communicatee^  to  us,  which  we  receive  and  put  in  action  under 
divine  direction.  Though  we  may  die  and  our  bodies  be  buried  in 
the  ground  we  shall  rise  again  and  we  shall  receive  these  gifts,  or 
have  them  with  us,  in  the  morning  of  the  first  resurrection,  and  we 
shall  go  on  to  that  glory  and  power  and  dominion  and  extent  which 
is  incomprehensible,  which  is  everlasting,  which  is  without  end.  These 
things  are  for  us,  for  you  and  for  me,  if  we  will  put  ourselves  in  the 
right  way  to  receive  the  divine  law  and  to  act  upon  the  divine  com- 
munication, and  put  ourselves  in  the  order  which  God  has  established, 
and  be  guided  thereby. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  well  this  afternoon,  in  spirit,  rather 
weak  in  body,  but  I  am  very  glad — more  than  I  can  tell— that  I  have 
the  privilege  of  saying  a  few  words  to  you  in  this  conference.  I  have 
attended  a  great  many.  I  have  always  rejoiced  in  them.  I  rejoice 
today.  What  there  is  of  me  left  on  the  earth  is  at  the  service  of  the 
Lord  and  his  work,  as  it  has  been  from  the  beginning.  I  rejoice  in 
it ;  I  glory  in  it ;  I  thank  God  for  all  his  gifts  and  blessings  to  me, 
and  what  little  good  I  have  been  able  to  accomplish.  It  does  me  good 
to  hear  the  missionaries  come  back  and  give  the  testimony  that  they 
do,  that  President  Grant  spoke  about  this  morning,  and  to  note  the 
willingness  of  those  who  are  now  being  called  to  go  into  the  mission- 
field,  and  the  desire  they  have  had  in  their  bosoms  for  years.  They 
have  grown  up  from  childhood  with  a  disposition  and  a  desire  to 
sacrifice  themselves,  so  to  speak,  to  go  out  to  the  world  and  preach 
the  gospel  without  pay,  without  earthly  reward.  It  is  a  great  blessing 
and  it  is  a  great  sign  that  God  is  working  with  the  youth  of  Israel. 
They  are  of  the  right  kind  of  people;  he  has  chosen  them  and  sent 
down  their  spirits  to  be  born  on  the  earth  in  these  latter  days,  especially 
to  engage  in  this  great  work,  and  to  exercise  their  agency. 

FREE  AGENCY  AND  OUR  GLORIOUS  DESTINY 

Everything  that  God  reveals  is  upon  the  principle  that  we  can 
receive  it,  or  reject  it  if  we  want  to.  We  ought  not  to  want  to  reject 
anything  that  comes  from  the  Lord,  through  his  properly  appointed 
channels.  We  should  be  glad  to  know  the  word  and  be  glad  to  carry 
it  out.  Now,  if  we  have  this  disposition,  these  gifts  that  are  spoken 
about — spiritual  gifts — they  are  all  from  one  spirit,  though  that  spirit 
has  different  operations  and  different  phases,  so  to  speak;  different 
degrees,  like  light  has — natural  light — so  that  the  light  that  comes 
from  God,  that  divine  light,  is  the  Holy  Spirit,  it  is  the  Spirit  by 
which  the  Father  and  the  Son  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  as  a  personality,  act. 
That  is  their  spirit ;  it  is  the  spirit  of  creation.  God  created  all  things 
firstly  spiritual,  and  afterwards  temporal,  but  he  did  it  all,  so  he  says, 
by  the  power  of  his  Spirit,  and  his  Spirit  pervades  all  things,  not  only 
on  this  earth,  but  throughout  the  vast  immensity  of  space.  God  will 
guide  and  direct  this  work,  as  he  commenced  it,  for  certain  purposes — 
and,  I  was  going  to  say — bring  it  to-  an  end,  but  there  is  no  end  to  it ; 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  31 


there  will  be  an  end  to  our  earthly  work  in  the  body;  there  will  not 
be  an  end  to  our  continuation  in  after  life,  if  we  come  forth  with  a 
crown  in  the  kingdom  of  the  Father  and  inherit  all  things,  all  heights, 
all  depths,  all  breadths,  all  eternity,  all  knowledge,  all  intelligence,  all 
wisdom,  all  power,  and  our  family  increase  will  go  on  and  there  will 
be  no  end  to  it,  and  therefore,  no  end  to  our  glory. 

Glory  be  to  God,  I  feel  in  my  heart  today,  for  all  his  goodness  to 
me,  and  for  that  which  he  has  revealed  and  will  reveal  for  the  salvation 
and  redemption  of  the  human  race,  and  give  us  power  to  use  the  agency 
with  which  he  has  endowed  us,  for  good,  for  the  benefit  of  mankind, 
the  building  up  of  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  the  preparation  of  the 
way  for  the  coming  of  the  King  of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords. 

May  God's  peace  be  with  you  and  with  us  all,  and  may  we  be 
able  to  attain  to  the  great  salvation,  even  the  crown  in  the  kingdom 
of  the  Father,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  sacred  solo,  "The  Recessional,"  was  sung  by  Walter  Wallace. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the 
California  Mission) 

It  is  certainly  a  great  privilege,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  in 
attendance  at  this  general  Conference,  and  to  have  the  opportunity  of 
occupying  a  few  moments  in  this  meeting.  I  most  earnestly  hope  that 
the  words  I  speak  may  be  prompted  by  the  same  good  Spirit  that  has 
directed  the  remarks  made  by  the  brethren  who  have  addressed  the 
people  thus  far  in  the  conference.  I  realize,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  one  can  only  teach  the  things  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven  by  the 
inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  that  ievery  man  must  be 
under  the  direction  and  in  the  companionship  of  that  Spirit,  if  he  is 
to  magnify  his  calling  and  Priesthood  and  discharge  acceptably  the 
duty  and  responsibility  that  rest  upon  him  as  a  servant  of  God,  who 
holds  divine  authority. 

I  am  very  glad  to  say  to  the  people  that  the  California  mission, 
is  in  a  very  prosperous  condition.  We  are  glad  to  be  able  to  report 
that  the  missionaries  assigned  to  that  field  of  labor  are  striving  as  a 
general  thing  to  discharge  the  duties  that  rest  upon  them.  They  are 
making  earnest  effort  to  come  in  contact  with  the  people  throughout 
the  mission,  and  to  deliver  to  them  the  message  of  the  gospel,  and 
make  exposition  according  to  their  power  and  ability  concerning  the 
truths  that  have  been  revealed,  and  that  they  have  been  authorized  to 
teach.  The  missionaries  know  that  these  principles  are  essential  to  the 
salvation  of  the  children  of  men.  Generally  speaking,  the  missionaries 
are  young  men  and  women  with  but  little  experience  in  the  Church. 
Many  of  them  come  into  the  mission  field  without  any  experience  at 
all  in  standing  before  the  people,  to  attempt  to  give  expression  to  their 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


thoughts  pertaining  to  the  gospel,  but  they  all  come  with  the  deter- 
mination to  discharge  their  duty.  They  all  manifest  a  very  willing  and 
obedient  spirit.  As  a  general  thing,  they  are  anxious  to  study  the 
gospel  and  to  obtain  information  by  the  reading  of  the  Holy  Scriptures, 
and  by  asking  questions  that  will  help  equip  them  for  the  duties  that 
rest  upon  them  as  preachers  of  righteousness.  It  is  certainly  a  very 
wonderful  thing  to  observe  the  spirit  and  attention  to  duty  manifest 
by  these  young  men  and  women,  and  to  note  the  development  they 
make  and  the  understanding  they  come  to  concerning  the  work  of 
God  until,  notwithstanding  the  feeling  of  weakness  of  which  they 
are  all  possessed  to  a  greater  or  less  extent,  they  do  come  to  feel  and 
know  in  their  very  souls  that  they  have  been  called  of  God  to  preach 
the  gospel  of  his  Son,  and  they  do  have  an  assurance  that  they  have 
been  blessed  with  that  authority  which  is  necessary  in  the  preaching 
of  the  gospel.  I  oftentimes  feel,  as  I  listen  to  their  testimonies,  and 
note  the  development  that  they  make,  that  they  are  just  as  sure  in 
their  own  souls  concerning  the  truth  of  the  work  of  God,  as  their 
fathers  and  mothers  are.  There  is  no  indication  on  the  part  of  the 
missionaries  who  are  laboring  in  the  California  mission  that  they 
love  the  truth  of  God  one  whit  less  than  the  generation  that  preceded 
them.  They  are  just  as  anxious  and  they  are  just  as  determined  to  dis- 
charge the  duties  that  pertain  to  their  calling  as  their  fathers  or  their 
grandfathers  could  have  been  in  the  days  that  have  gone  by. 

We  have  about  ten  thousand  Latter-day  Saints  in  the  California 
mission.  Most  of  these  people  are  located  in  the  state  of  California; 
a  few,  probably  seventeen  hundred,  are  in  the  state  of  Arizona,  and  a 
much  smaller  number  in  the  state  of  Nevada.  The  mission  includes 
portions  of  the  state  of  Arizona  and  portions  of  the  state  of  Nevada. 
There  has  been  a  very  wonderful  growth  in  the  membership  of  the 
mission  during  the  past  two  years,  not  so  much  by  way  of  conversions 
although  there  are  always  some  honest  souls  found  by  the  mission- 
aries, as  they  go  from  door  to  door,  or  as  they  lift  up  their  voices  in 
the  proclamation  of  the  gospel  upon  the  street  corners,  who  hearken 
to  their  message,  and  are  brought  to  investigate  the  principles  of  the 
gospel,  and  become  convinced  of  its  truth,  and  cheerfully  enter  into 
covenant  with  the  Lord  our  God  by  going  down  into  the  waters  of 
baptism.  A  few  hundred  souls,  year  by  year,  are  thus  convinced  of 
the  message  that  the  missionaries  are  seeking  to  impart  to  the  people ; 
but  the  great  development  in  numbers  has  come  from  people  at  home. 
We  have  had,  probably,  in  the  last  eighteen  months,  or  such  a  period, 
two  thousand  or  more  Church  members  who  have  come  to  California, 
bringing  their  recommends,  and  have  undertaken  to  establish  homes 
in  various  portions  of  the  state.  Many  other  Church  members  have 
come  into  the  state  who  have  not  yet  become  identified  with  the 
Church. 

California  has  not  been  distressed  financially  to  the  same  extent 
during  the  past  year  or  two  that  many  of  the  western  states  have  been. 
There  has  been  considerable  employment;  in  fact,  I  think  there  has 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 


33 


been  employment  for  all  who  desired  to  find  labor,  particularly  those 
who  are  engaged  in  building,  as  there  are  thousands  of  residences  and 
many  great  hotels,  theatre  buildings,  bank  buildings,  and  other  build- 
ings of  like  character,  that  have  been  erected  during  the  past  year  or 
two.  The  present  year  is  one  of  the  remarkable  years  in  the  growth 
of  southern  California.  It  has  been  stated  by  those  who  seem  to 
understand  and  know  what  they  are  talking  about,  that  there  are 
more  buildings  now  being  erected,  or  that  have  been  erected  during 
the  present  year,  than  in  any  other  like  period  in  the  history  of  Cal- 
ifornia, and  because  of  the  lack  of  employment  and  dull  business  con- 
ditions in  Utah,  Idaho  and  Arizona,  and  other  sections,  many  of  our 
people  have  come  to  California  to  find  employment.  I  am  happy  to 
be  able  to  say  that,  as  a  general  thing,  they  have  found  employment, 
and  have  been  able  to  maintain  themselves  comfortably.  These  new- 
comers are  strengthening,  to  a  very  wonderful  degree,  the  branches  of 
the  California  mission.  I  suppose  the  largest  branch  that  has  ever 
been  known  in  the  Church  is  located  in  Los  Angeles.  This  branch  has 
a  membership  of  about  three  thousand  souls.  The  Los  Angeles  branch 
is  divided  into  a  number  of  subdivisions.  There  are  no  independent 
branches  in  these  suborganizations,  but  there  are  five  other  divisions 
where  Sabbath  schools  are  being  held,  where  a  preaching  service  is 
conducted  every  Sabbath  morning,  and  where  Relief  Societies  have  been 
organized.  There  are  also  other  districts  that  are  being  opened  up 
where  we  hope  in  the  near  future  there  will  be  other  organizations 
effected. 

We  have  been  trying  to  give  attention  to  the  people  who  have 
come  in  from  the  adjoining  states.  We  are  seeking  to  effect  organ- 
izations and  endeavoring  to  impress  upon  the  people,  as  they  come, 
that  they  are  always  under  obligation  to  give  service  to  the  work  of 
God,  and  to  be  true  to  the  covenants  that  they  have  made  with  our 
Father  in  heaven,  and  set  an  honorable  upright  example  before  the 
people. 

We  try  to  impress  upon  the  missionaries  that  it  is  the  solemn 
obligation  of  every  man  and  woman  who  has  been  called  to  be  a 
preacher  of  righteousness  to  be  an  eloquent  preacher  in  conduct.  It 
may  not  be  given  to  every  man  or  woman  to  expound  the  doctrines 
of  the  gospel  by  word  of  mouth  eloquently,  but  we  feel  that  it  is  given 
to  every  man  and  to  every  woman  to  expound  the  gospel,  most  elo- 
quently, by  the  uprightness  of  their  lives,  by  living  in  such  a  manner 
that  those  who  look  upon  them  may  feel  in  their  hearts  to  say:  This 
man  or  this  woman  is  a  good  man  or  a  good  woman.  Their  conduct 
indicates  that  they  have  the  fear  of  God  in  their  souls,  and  that  they 
desire  to  work  righteousness. 

Wa  are  trying  to  impress  upon  the  minds  of  men  the  principles 
that  have  been  spoken  of  in  this  conference.  We  are  testifying  to  the 
people  that  we  are  living  in  a  wonderful  age  in  the  history  of  the 
world,  and  that  in  this  great  and  last  dispensation  in  which  we  live, 
the  Lord  our  God  has  in  very  deed  revealed  himself  to  mortal  men; 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  by  the  sending  of  holy  angels  the  divine  authority,  which  had 
been  lost  from  among  men  for  ages,  has  been  restored,  and  that  there 
is  necessity  for  this  authority ;  that  men  cannot  be  saved  ifl  the  pres- 
ence of  God  without  the  authority  of  the  holy  Priesthood.  The  or- 
dinances of  the  gospel  necessary  to  the  salvation  of  men  can  only  be 
legally  administered  by  divine  authority,  and  no  man  can  assume  that 
authority.  If  men  pretend  within  themselves — even  though  they  may 
have  honest  feelings  in  their  own  souls — that  they  have  the  authority 
to  preach  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  to  administer  in 
the  ordinances  thereof,  they  but  deceive  themselves ;  for  the  administer- 
ing of  gospel  ordinances  can  only  be  properly  and  legally  attended  to 
by  the  authority  of  the  holy  Priesthood. 

We  are  trying  to  impress  upon  the  minds  of  men  the  fact  that 
that  authority  has  been  restored ;  that  God  our  Father  in  heaven  has, 
in  very  deed,  in  this  age  of  the  world,  given  back  to  man  the  same 
power  and  authority  that  was  exercised  by  the  apostles  of  old,  and 
by  other  men  who  were  chosen,  legally  and  properly  by  the  apostles, 
and  sent  forth  to  preach  the  gospel  of  repentance. 

We  do  not  feel  that  it  is  possible  for  any  being  to  receive  this 
authority  from  the  Holy  Scriptures.  Recently,  in  one  of  our  priest- 
hood meetings,  a  young  lady  missionary,  who  feels  the  great  responsi- 
bility that  rests  upon  her,  and  her  own  weakness,  and  is  seeking  to 
discharge  her  duty  in  going  from  door  to  door,  came  to  the  home  of 
a  minister  of  the  gospel,  and  the  minister  gave  the  young  lady  to 
understand  that  it  was  time  wasted  for  her  to  come  to  his  door  with 
the  message  that  she  had  to  deliver.  Pie  told  her  that  he  had  been  a  , 
preacher  of  the  gospel  for  forty  years,  and  wanted  to  know  from  her 
what  right  she  had  to  come  to  his  home  with  the  gospel  message. 
She  then  wanted  to  know  from  him  where  he  obtained  his  authority. 
She  asked  a  very  simple  question:  "How  did  you  obtain  authority 
to  be  a  minister  of  the  gospel,  and  to  administer  gospel  ordinances?" 
And  he  made  answer :  "I  obtained  that  authority  from  the  Holy 
Bible."  Well,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  weak  as  the  lady  missionary 
may  have  felt,  she  did  know  in  her  soul  that  he  had  never  obtained 
one  particle  of  authority  to  administer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ 
from  the  Holy  Bible.  She  had  understanding  and  comprehension  to 
know  that  no  man  living  can  find  authority  to  speak  in  the  name  of 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world  by  the  reading  of  the  Holy  Scriptures, 
that  authority  can  only  be  received  by  the  laying  on  of  hands  and  by 
the  voice  of  revelation  and  prophecy. 

When  inquiry  is  made  of  missionaries  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  as  to  how  they  obtained  authority  they 
give  an  altogether  different  answer.  I  have  given  it  myself  when 
men  have  wanted  to  know:  "How  did  you  receive  authority?"  1 
have  made  answer:  "I  was  ordained  to  be  a  special  witness  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  a  Seventy  in  the  Church  of  Christ,  by  a  man  named 
Royal  A.  Barney,  and  Royal  A.  Barney  was  ordained  to  the  same 
calling  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.    Joseph  Smith  was  ordained 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 


35 


by  Peter,  James  and  John,  who  were  ordained  by  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ;"  and  I  have  no  thought  or  fear  in  my  mind  when  I  make 
this  sort  of  answer,  that  any  man  living  can  overturn  the  foundation 
of  authority  that  has  been  given  to  me,  by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands 
of  a  humble  servant  of  God  who  had  been  properly  authorized  and 
commissioned  by  authority  thus  revealed  from  heaven  in  these  latter 
times.    It  cannot  be  overturned. 

I  rejoice  in  my  soul  in  bearing  witness  that  this  divine  authority 
has  been  given.  I  rejoice  in  the  opportunity  of  inviting  men  to  in- 
vestigate the  message  of  the  gospel,  and  I  understand  that  I  am  called 
to  preach  the  fundamental  principles  of  the  gospel,  thjat  the  re- 
sponsibility is  upon  me,  and  upon  my  associates,  to  cry  repentance 
among  the  people,  to  invite  men  not  only  to  have  faith  in  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world,  but  to  repent  from  sin,  and  we  understand  that 
if  men  repent,  they  turn  away  definitely  and  entirely  from  wrong- 
doing. As  it  has  been  said  by  one  of  the  apostles :  "Let  him  that 
stole,  steal  no  more;"  and  this  teaching  applies  to  every  other  line  of 
misconduct.  We  persuade  men  to  repent  and  to  receive  the  or- 
dinance that  has  been  given  by  our  Father  in  heaven,  whereby  re- 
mission of  sins  can  be  obtained,  through  the  holy  ordinance  of  bap- 
tism by  immersion.  How  it  gladdens  my  soul ;  and  it  gladdens  the  souls 
of  my  companions,  when  they  go  down  into  the  waters  of  baptism 
and,  lifting  up  their  hands  before  the  Lord  God  of  heaven,  and  before 
their  associates  and  witnesses,  can  say:  "Being  commissioned  of 
Jesus  Christ,  I  baptize  you  in  the  name  of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son, 
and  of  the  Holy  Ghost."  For  it  is  by  that  sort  of  commission,  and 
by  that  character  of  authority  that  we  lead  men  and  women  into 
the  waters  of  baptism,  and  we  do  know  that  this  authority  has  been 
given  us. 

I  sometimes  feel  that  men  think  that  it  is  a  radical  and  improper 
attitude  for  young  men  and  women,  who  stand  up  with  more  or  less 
fear  in  their  hearts,  and  make  the  declaration  that  they  know  that 
the  truth  of  God  has  been  revealed,  and  that  divine  authority  has 
been  restored.  I,  however,  rejoice  when  I  hear  them  bear  such  a  rec- 
ord, for  I  know  concerning  this  matter;  and  as  God  is  my  witness, 
I  knew  that  God  has  spoken  in  the  days  of  my  boyhood.  It  came  to 
me  when  I  was  far  off,  laboring  as  a  boy  missionary — the  conviction 
and  the  knowledge  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  the  living  God, 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  that  he  has  revealed  in  this  dispensa- 
tion the  principles  and  doctrines  and  ordinances  that  I  have  been  called 
to  teach.  That  knowledge  came  into  my  soul  most  convincingly  forty- 
one  or  forty-two  years  ago,  although  it  seems  to  me,  when  I  look  back 
that  long,  before  that,  before  I  ever  felt  that  I  could  honestly  and 
truthfully  bear  witness  to  such  knowledge,  when  I  look  back  now, 
it  seems  to  me  that  there  was  always  within  me  an  abiding  assurance 
that  the  religion  of  my  fathers  was  in  very  deed  the  religion  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I  do  know,  as  my  associates  know,  whether  they 
be  young  or  old,  that  we  have  not  assumed  this  authority,  that  w« 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


have  not  sent  ourselves,  but  that  we  have  been  called  of  God  by  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world,  through  the  authority  of  the  holy  Priesthood 
to  be  preachers  of  righteousness ;  and  we  do  have  the  right  to  call  men 
to  repentance  and  to  warn  them  of  the  judgments  and  calamities  that 
are  coming  upon  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth.  The  Lord  God  of 
heaven  will  confirm  the  testimony  that  is  delivered  by  his  servants 
and  handmaidens,  whether  they  be  young  or  old,  and  the  inhabitants 
of  the  earth  in  due  time  must  be  brought  to  comprehend  and  know 
that  we  speak  the  truth  and  lie  not,  thank  God. 

And  this  is  my  joy  and  knowledge  and  testimony  that  these  prec- 
ious things  that  have  been  spoken  by  the  presiding  authority  of  the 
Church  during  these  meetings  are  the  truths  of  God,  that  they  have 
been  revealed,  that  they  are  to  remain,  that  they  are  in  very  deed 
the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  I  feel  again  and  again  in  my 
ministry  to  consecrate  and  reconsecrate  my  time  and  service  to  the 
spread  of  this  glad  message  among  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth.  I 
feel  that  I  am  under  obligation  to  the  Lord  God  of  heaven  who  has 
given  me,  from  the  very  jaws  of  death,  my  life,  and  with  the  help 
of  God  I  shall  bear  witness  concerning  his  truth,  whether  men  receive 
me  gladly  or  whether  they  receive  me  with  contempt.  I  am  under  ob- 
ligation to  bear  this  record  and  witness  that  God  hath  indeed  spoken, 
that  his  Priesthood  and  authority  have  indeed  been  restored,  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  the  great  instrument  to  reintroduce  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  which  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  and  I  pray 
that  with  you  I  may  be  true,  firm  and  steadfast  to  this  testimony 
forever  and  ever,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

{Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church) 

While  I  stand  before  you  this  afternoon  and  attempt  to  address 
you,  I  earnestly  desire  that  the  spirit  which  has  characterized  our 
meetings  and  the  utterances  of  our  speakers  may  continue  with  me,  and 
that  I  may  have  that  which  I  need  so  much,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  so 
that  the  words  spoken  will  be  of  benefit  and  service  to  the  work  of 
the  Lord. 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimonies  of  the  brethren  such  as  have  just  been 
delivered  by  Elder  McMurrin,  for  I  know  him  to  be  a  faithful  servant 
of  the  Lord,  one  who  is  desirous  of  doing  and  performing  the  mission 
to  which  he  has  been  called,  in  an  earnest  and  acceptable  manner.  And 
let  me  say,  the  Church  is  blessed  with  an  abundance  of  young  men, 
as  well  as  middle-aged  and  elderly  men,  who  are  just  as  faithful,  just 
as  earnest,  just  as  devoted,  just  as  certain  of  their  position  with  re- 
spect to  the  work  of  the  Lord  as  Elder  McMurrin  is.  We  know  well 
enough  that  the  Lord  has  established  this  work,  and  is  bringing  to 
pass  his  purposes  in  connection  with  it.  This  is  his  special  work,  and 
to  this  Church  is  given  the  power  and  authority  to  lead  the  world  to 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


37 


spiritual  life,  so  that  our  mission  really  is  to  teach  the  people  how 
they  may  come  from  death  unto  life.  For  a  man  may  be  very  much 
alive  in  a  temporal  way,  and  yet  be  spiritually  dead. 

There  are  great  problems  also  before  our  nation,  which  demand 
solution ;  they  are  burning,  pressing  questions  which  must  be  solved,  and 
which  can  only  be  solved  on  the  principles  of  righteousness.  These 
principles  will  help  to  adjust  the  jarring,  warring,  contentious  prob- 
lems which  selfishness  very  largely  produces,  and  which  can  only  be 
solved  through  the  principles  that  the  Lord  has  revealed.  It  is  not 
in  man  that  walks,  to  guide  his  steps  aright.  It  is  not  in  man  of 
his  own  power  to  solve  these  problems,  nor  can  any  man  do  it  of 
himself  alone.  It  is  only  by  the  help  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Almighty 
that  will  bring  us  to  the  point  where  justice  and  righteousness  can 
at  least  approximately  be  approached.  We  have  had  contentions  in 
our  own  nation  during  the  recent  months  of  railroad  strikes,  coal 
strikes,  and  other  contentions  that  have  threatened  the  very  existence 
of  our  government;  and  also  there  have  grown  up  in  our  nation, 
secret  organizations,  combinations  of  men,  no  doubt  desiring  to  pro- 
tect their  own  selfish  interests,  even  though  those  interests  should 
conflict  with  the  strict  principles  of  justice.  Some  of  these  organiza- 
tions like  the  Ku  Klux  Klan  have  undertaken  to  administer  what  they 
call  justice,  independent  of  Constitutional  law,  and  the  rights  of  men, 
and  they  have  taken  the  law  into  their  own  hands  and  have  dealt  with 
certain  people  in  a  way  which  can  only  result  in  disorder,  turmoil, 
strife,  and  in  the  breaking  down  of  Constitutional  law.  For  these 
secret  organizations  undertake  to  administer  punishment  upon  men 
and  women,  irrespective  of  the  laws  of  the  land. 

It  has  been  the  counsel  of  the  leaders  of  this  Church  from  the 
beginning,  to  observe  the  Constitutional  law  of  the  land,  and  it  is  stated 
in  the  revelations  that  whatsoever  is  more  than  this  or  less  than  this, 
cometh  of  evil.  We  do  not  need  anything  outside  of  this  strict  letter 
of  the  law,  for  if  we  do  go  beyond  it,  or  come  tardy  of  it,  we  are 
liable  to  make  a  mistake.  The  agency  that  the  Lord  has  given  to  his 
sons  and  daughters  was  given  to  all — the  free  agency  to  choose  be- 
tween right  and  wrong,  and  that  agency  makes  us  free,  for  the  Lord 
has  said,  "If  ye  abide  in  my  truth,  then  are  ye  free  indeed."  Now, 
whenever  any  man  enters  any  organization,  secret  or  otherwise,  that 
takes  from  him  a  certain  degree  of  that  free  agency  to  choose  between 
right  and  wrong,  and  makes  of  him  a  servant,  to  do  as  he  is  told  in 
certain  matters,  quite  irrespective  of  the  righteousness  or  justice  of 
the  case,  or  of  the  right  or  wrong  of  the  case,  then  that  man  sur- 
renders that  much  of  his  free  agency  which  he  ought  not  under  any 
circumstances  to  surrender.    Let  me  explain. 

In  the  Bishop's  Office  the  question  was  brought  directly  before 
us  as  to  the  right  of  a  man  to  labor  on  some  work  which  the  Church 
was  doing,  whether  he  belonged  to  a  Union  or  not.  We  decided  that 
we  would  hire  Union  men  or  non-Union  men;  if  they  were  good  work- 
men, we  would  not  ask  the  question  as  to  whether  they  belonged  to  any 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Union  or  not.  But  we  were  confronted  with  this  difficulty:  one  of  our 
brethren  who  is  a  Union  man,  refused  to  work  on  the  job  with  a 
non-Union  man,  a  good  member  of  the  Church.  In  this  case  we  said, 
this  brother  who  does  not  belong  to  your  Union  is  a  good  man,  a 
good  neighbor,  a  good  citizen;  you  meet  with  him  at  the  Sacrament 
table  and  administer  the  Sacrament  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  You 
may  be  appointed  as  a  block  teacher  and  go  around  teaching  the 
Saints  their  duties.  You  may  both  be  called  on  to  administer  to  the 
sick,  and  you  go  and  offer  your  prayers,  but  when  it  comes  to  work- 
ing together,  you,  our  brother  who  has  a  Union  card  and  belongs  to 
the  Union,  will  not  allow  this  good  brother  of  yours  to  work  for  his 
living,  nor  will  you  work  with  him  in  any  way,  because  he  does  not 
belong  to  your  organization.  Now  we  ask,  do  you  think  this  is  right 
or  just  or  fair?  He,  a  good  man,  every  way1  acceptable,  a  good  work- 
man, to  be  deprived  of  working  on  a  job  because  he  refuses  to  sur- 
render any  part  of  his  God-given  agency  to  any  organization  whatso- 
ever on  the  face  of  the  earth?  Or,  because  in  this  he  refuses  to  put 
himself  in  a  position  where  he  may  be  called  upon  to  do  a  wrong; 
for  it  is  a  wrong  to  say  your  own  brother  shall  not  have  the  priv- 
ilege of  earning  a  livelihood  because  he  will  not  join  your  organiza- 
tion. On  the  other  hand,  a  man  comes  along  who  is  not  the  best  kind 
of  a  citizen,  who  may  be  more  or  less  disreputable,  who  is  rather  a 
discredit  to  good  citizenship  than  otherwise,  and  yet  he  can  show  a 
Union  card,  and  you,  my  good  Latter-day  Saint  brother,  who  belongs 
to  the  Union,  you  will  work  with  him;  you  will  allow  him  to  work 
for  his  living  and  join  with  you  in  this  work,  although  he  is  not  one- 
twentieth  part  the  tithe  of  such  a  man  as  your  own  brother  in  the 
Church  is,  whom  you  refuse  to  work  with. 

This  Union  brother  acknowledged  that  such  was  practically  the 
case,  and  yet  he  was  powerless  to  help  it.  Now,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  don't  you  see  that  this  man  had  surrendered  so  much  of  his 
free  agency  to  this  Union  of  his  that  he  was  not  permitted  to  do  that 
which  was  plainly  and  clearly  right  toward  his  own  brother  in  the 
Church?  Therefore,  I  say,  the  counsel  which  has  been  given  all  along 
by  the  leaders  of  the  Church,  to  refrain  from  joining  any  organiza- 
tion, or  giving  your  allegiance,  or  any  part  of  your  allegiance  to  any 
society  or  Union  which  will  interfere  in  the  least  degree  with  your  free 
agency,  is  good  sound  counsel.  Of  course,  one  will  say  that  he  has 
a  right  to  join  whatever  organization  he  pleases.  It  is  true  that  he 
has  that  right,  but  his  duty,  his  plain  simple  duty,  is  to  protect  his 
brother  and  the  interests  of  his  neighbor.  A  good  many  people  stand 
upon  their  rights,  as  they  say,  and  quite  often  forget  their  duties. 
Our  duties  to  our  God ;  to  our  Church ;  to  our  families ;  to  our  neigh- 
bors; these  ought  to  be  first,  rather  than  prating  so  much  about  our 
rights. 

Our  President  said  this  morning  in  his  opening  remarks,  we  be- 
lieve in  freedom,  in  liberty;  liberty  for  a  man  to  work  without  being 
threatened  to  be  killed  if  he  does  work.    Now,  I  grant  you  that  some 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


39 


of  these  organizations  have  done  much  to  bring  a  greater  share  of 
prosperity  to  the  laborers  than  they  otherwise  might  have  had,  but 
would  you  say  that  a  man  working  for  you  as  a  farmer,  and  you  are 
right  in  the  midst  of  your  fall  work,  getting  up  your  potato  crop,  per- 
haps you  have  a  car  that  must  be  loaded;  it  is  urgent  that  this  work 
be  done,  because  there  is  a  storm  coming,  and  your  potatoes  will  be 
frozen,  and  what  not, — and  right  then,  knowing  your  extremity,  this 
man  who  knows  the  circumstances  you  are  in,  and  how  much  you 
need  his  help,  he  yet  says,  I  am  going  on  a  strike;  it  is  my  right  to 
strike,  and  I  quit  work  right  here.  Would  you  say  that  this  man  was 
doing  the  right  thing,  doing  his  duty  when  he  leaves  the  farmer  in 
that  predicament,  just  because  he  knows  he  can  inflict  an  injury  upon  a 
man  whom  he  is  working  for?  That  spirit  is  wrong,  and  most  repre- 
hensible. 

The  President  of  the  United  States,  in  one  of  his  messages,  said 
that  there  is  just  as  much  sacredness  in  the  right  to  work  as  there  is 
in  the  right  to  strike.  Well,  I  thought  in  analyzing  that  statement, 
What  sacredness  is  there  in  the  right  to  strike,  if  by  striking  I  injure 
my  brother?  Am  I  not  commanded  as  a  Latter-day  Saint,  and  di- 
rected always  by  the  revelations  of  the  Lord,  to  love  my  neighbor? 

Now,  the  impression  I  would  like  to  leave  with  you  is  this,  that 
the  counsel  which  has  been  given  all  along  by  the  leaders  of  the 
Church  is  good,  safe,  wise  counsel,  and  that  is,  to  join  no  organization 
which  interferes  with  your  doing  the  right  thing  under  any  and  all 
circusmtances.  Of  course,  we  must  be  charitable.  We  must  be  for- 
giving. The  Lord  has  given  us  some  very  high  ideals  in  respect  to 
this  matter,  in  these  latter-day  revelations  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith. 

You  can  read  in  the  98th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  a 
revelation  which  was  given  just  after  the  first  mobbings  and  drivings 
in  the  state  of  Missouri,  how  the  Lord  instructed  the  Saints  that,  al- 
though they  had  been  mobbed  and  plundered  and  driven  and  robbed 
of  their  property,  yet  the  Lord  puts  the  high  ideal  before  them  in  that 
revelation,  that  they  must  forgive  even  their  enemies,  and  even  though 
that  enemy  has  not  repented.  If  he  has  repented,  thou  shalt  forgive 
him  seventy  times  seven ;  but  "If  thine  enemy" — mark  you,  thine 
enemy — "if  thine  enemy  comes  upon  thee  and  repents  not,  neverthe- 
less thou  shalt  forgive  him."  This  is  the  wonderful  standard  of  for- 
giveness which  the  Lord  holds  up  to  this  Church.  It  is  of  the  same 
spirit  that  we  read  of  as  being  exhibited  on  Calvary,  when  the  Lord 
of  all  said,  "Father  forgive  them,  for  they  know  not  what  they  do." 
I  say  again,  we  should  remember  our  duties  as  well  as  remembering  al- 
ways what  we  call  our  rights ;  the  duty  of  the  husband  to  his  wife,  to 
love  and  to  honor  and  protect,  and  a  good  many  of  us  husbands  have 
learned  to  obey  as  well. 

We  do  not  need  to  join  any  organization  in  the  world  outside  of 
the  CEurch  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  to  be  absolutely  free, 
and  this  Church  has  given  evidence,  let  me  say  in  plainness,  of  its  de- 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


termination  to  keep  and  abide  the  laws  of  the  land,  and  to  observe 
them,  and  to  uphold  them.  This  Church  did  that  in  the  principle  of 
plural  marriage,  which  it  surrendered  in  obedience  to  law,  even  though 
the  Church  did  not  believe  the  law  to  be  Constitutional.  But  when 
it  was  declared  Constitutional  the  Church  surrendered,  and  has  obeyed 
the  law.  Could  any  stronger  evidence  be  given  that  this  Church  stands 
for  obedience  to  the  law? 

We  should  uphold  all  the  laws  of  the  land  whether  we  like  them 
or  not;  so  long  as  they  are  the  laws  of  the  land,  we  should  observe  to 
uphold  them.  The  prohibition  law;  the  cigarette  law,  whatever  law 
is  enacted ;  and  while  it  stands  on  the  statute  book,  it  should  be  obeyed. 
If  we  will  remember  the  first  great  commandment,  "Thou  shalt  love 
the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  might,  mind  and  strength," 
that  will  always  keep  us  within  the  law,  obeying  the  law,  respecting 
the  law  in  whatever  land  or  country  the  Saints  may  abide.  And  if  we 
will  think  more  of  our  duties,  and  a  little  less,  perhaps,  of  our  rights, 
we  will  be  gainers  thereby,  and  we  will  not  break  any  law  of  the  land, 
for  the  Lord  has  said,  "He  who  observeth  the  law  of  God  hath  no 
need  to  break  the  law  of  the  land." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  hope  that  we  will  go  home  from  this 
conference  determined  as  a  great  body  of  people,  to  stand  for  law, 
order,  righteousness,  justice  and  peace  on  earth  and  good  will  among 
all  men.  I  believe  as  the  Prophet  Joseph  has  written,  that  the  day 
would  come  when  there  would  be  so  much  of  disorder,  of  secret  com- 
binations taking  the  law  into  their  own  hands,  tramping  upon  Consti- 
tutional rights  and  the  liberties  of  the  people,  that  the  Constitution 
would  hang  as  by  a  thread.  Yes,  but  it  will  still  hang,  and  there  will 
be  enough  of  good  people,  many  who  may  not  belong  to  our  Church 
at  all,  people  who  have  respect  for  law  and  for  order,  and  for  Con- 
stitutional rights,  who  will  rally  around  with  us  and  save  the  Consti- 
tution. I  have  never  read  that  that  thread  would  be  cut.  It  will 
hang;  the  Constitution  will  abide  and  this  civilization,  that  the  Lord 
has  caused  to  be  built  up,  will  stand  fortified  through  the  power  of 
God,  by  putting  from  our  hearts  all  that  is  evil,  or  that  is  wrong  in  the 
sight  of  God,  by  our  living  as  we  should  live,  acceptable  to  him. 

I  bear  witness  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  is  indeed 
the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  am  not  only  sure  of  it;  I  am  certain  of  it. 
I  am  certain  as  to  our  position  in  respect  to  this  being  the  special 
work  of  our  Father  who  is  in  heaven.  I  am  absolutely  certain  that 
it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  to  all  nations,  kindreds,  tongues 
and  peoples;  to  everyone  that  will  hearken.  These  men,  the  presi- 
dency of  this  Church,  and  the  other  leaders  of  the  Church  with  them, 
have  received  that  authority  which  enables  them  to  give  guidance  and 
direction  in  that  way,  that  the  great  sweep  of  the  Kingdom  of  God 
will  go  on  and  on,  conquering,  and  to  conquer  until  every  knee  shall 
bow  and  every  tongue  confess  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  to  the  glory  of 
God  the  Father. 

May  the  Lord  hasten  it  in  his  time,  and  prepare  us  for  the  great 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIB  LEY 


41 


days  that  are  coming,  that  we  may  go  forth  and  preach  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  in  all  the  world,  build  up  his  Kingdom,  and  give  our 
first  allegiance,  and  no  divided  allegiance,  but  our  first  and  sole  al- 
legiance, to  God  and  country,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

As  you  all  know,  we  have  more  preachers  than  time;  and  all  the 
time  has  expired,  really,  but  we  will  ask  Brother  John  M.  Knight, 
the  President  of  the  Western  States  mission,  to  talk  and  to  forget 
the  time  until  at  least  ten  minutes  after  4  o'clock. 

ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 

(President  of  the  Ensign  stake  of  Zion,  and  President  of  the 
W estern  States  Mission) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  in  the  privilege  I  have  of 
attending  this  session  of  our  conference.  I  desire  that  the  few  mo- 
ments that  I  shall  sepak  to  you  I  may  be  blessed  of  our  Father,  and 
have  the  same  good  spirit  that  has  characterized  the  remarks  of  our 
brethren.  I  rejoice  that  our  President  has  given  unto  us  a  definite 
and  positive  and  concrete  statement  with  respect  to  the  attitude  of  the 
Church  concerning  some  of  the  great  problems  that  confront  us.  So 
far  as  I  am  concerned,  I  shall  go  to  the  people  of  the  Western  States 
mission  and  advise  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  reside  there  to  observe 
the  counsel,  the  advice  and  the  instructions  they  have  received  this  day. 

I  call  to  mind  the  semi-annual  conference  of  the  Church  nineteen 
years  ago  this  month.  At  that  conference  President  Joseph  W. 
McMurrin  was  one  of  the  speakers.  His  remarks  on  that  occasion 
have  had  a  great  influence  upon  my  life.  I  was  prepared  to  leave 
Salt  Lake  City  to  make  my  home  in  southern  Idaho.  I  had  made 
preparations  to  sever  my  connections  with  my  father  in  a  business 
way,  and  to  leave  this  city  for  that  section  of  the  country.  Brother 
McMurrin  advised  the  Latter-day  Saints  living  in  this  city,  at  that 
particular  time,  if  they  entertained  any  such  ideas  that  they  should 
seek  counsel  before  leaving.  I  went  to  Brother  McMurrin  the  next  day 
at  his  home.  I  asked  him  for  counsel  and  he  said :  "I  cannot  give  it 
to  you.  I  will  take  your  case  to  the  presiding  brethren."  He  did  so, 
and  late  in  the  afternoon  of  that  day  came  and  told  me  what  they 
had  to  say.  I  was  advised  to  remain  in  Salt  Lake  City.  That  was  not 
the  counsel  I  wanted.  I  desired  with  all  my  heart  to  go,  and  my 
father  turned  to  me  and  said:  "My  boy,  what  do  you  intend  to  do?" 
And  I  said :  "Follow  the  counsel  of  my  brethren.  1  never  would 
have  sought  counsel  if  I  did  not  intend  to  obey  it." 

Sometimes  we  seek  counsel  and  we  fail  to  obey  that  counsel. 
Sometimes  counsel  is  given  unto  the  Latter-day  Saints  without  their 
seeking,  and  they  fail  to  obey  it.    I  call  to  mind  that  at  the  conference, 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


six  months  ago,  certain  counsel  and  advice  were  given  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  I  know  that  they  have  not  followed  that  counsel,  some  of 
them  to  their  sorrow.  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  I  have  implicit  faith 
and  confidence  in  the  presiding  authorities  of  the  Church,  and  with 
the  help  of  my  Father  I  promise  to  follow  the  counsel  and  the  ad- 
vice and  the  instruction  that  they  give.  I  thank  God  that  I  had  the 
strength  to  follow  their  counsel ;  for,  for  four  years  after  that  counsel 
was  given  I  went  through  the  most  trying  period  of  my  life.  Sick- 
ness and  death  in  my  family,  financial  reverses  and  other  things 
came,  one  following  the  other  with  great  rapidity,  and  ofttimes  I 
wondered  if  my  own  judgment  would  not  have  been  best.  But  I  am 
grateful  unto  the  Lord  that  I  have  had  the  disposition  to  be  obedient 
to  the  counsel  of  our  brethren,  and  I  know  there  is  safety  in  follow- 
ing their  advice  on  all  matters.  Time  has  demonstrated  beyond  the 
possibility  of  a  doubt  that  the  counsel  given  me  was  the  very  best  thing 
for  me. 

I  rejoice  in  the  blessings  of  the  gospel.  It  is  a  wonderful  priv- 
ilege to  come  up  to  Zion  to  partake  of  the  influence  of  a  gathering  of 
this  kind,  for,  as  Bishop  Nibley  has  indicated,  there  is  strife  and  bitter- 
ness and  contention  in  every  part  of  the  world,  and  it  is  a  privilege 
to  gather  with  the  Saints  of  God  who  have  in  their  hearts  a  love  for 
him  and  a  desire,  I  am  sure,  to  serve  him  and  to  keep  his  command- 
ments. I  feel  that,  as  a  people,  the  time  has  come  when  we  should  turn 
our  faces  towards  the  rising  sun,  and  that  we  should  set  our  hearts 
like  flint  against  the  very  appearance  of  evil,  that  we  should  give  the 
very  best  efforts  of  our  lives  to  the  furtherance  of  God's  work  here 
upon  the  earth.  I  wish  we  were  as  loyal  to  the  presiding  authority 
of  the  Church  as  some  of  our  enemies  say  that  we  are.  The  article 
referred  to  by  President  Grant  this  morning  by  Dr.  Martin  was  pub- 
lished widely  in  the  newspapers  of  the  United  States.  It  appeared  in 
tha  Denver  Post  with  heavy  headlines.  I  wished  that  he  did  have  the 
power  that  was  indicated,  while  I  knew  that  he  was  not  exercising 
such  power. 

One  of  our  reverend  gentlemen  from  this  state  visited  the  West- 
ern States  mission  and  he  magnified  greatly  the  statements  that  were 
given  by  Dr.  Martin,  He  not  only  said  that  President  Grant  con- 
trolled millions,  but  billions  of  dollars — I  think  four  billions  of  dol- 
lars that  he  controlled  in  actual  money.  I  presume  he  would  like  to 
get  his  hands  upon  it.  This  good  gentleman  applauded  our  efforts  as 
misionaries.  He  told  of  our  wonderful  organizations.  He  spoke  a 
good  word  for  the  Sabbath  schools  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  He  referred  to  the  loyalty  of  the  Saints  in  ob- 
serving the  law  of  tithing,  and  after  saying  a  number  of  good  things 
he  asked  the  question :    "What  can  we  do  to  stop  it  ?"  ( Laughter. ) 

Well,  I  remembered  the  word'  of  the  Lord,  and  I  felt  in  my  heart 
to  say  that  neither  he  nor  any  of  his  kind,  nor  even  the  devil  him- 
self, could  stop  the  work  of  the  Lord,  so  long  as  we  were  in  the  line 
of  our  duty,  and  preaching  the  gospel  of  repentance  to  the  nations 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 


43 


of  the  earth.  I  am  thankful  to  my  heavenly  Father  for  the  faith  that 
I  have  in  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  for  the  influence  it  has 
had  upon  my  life.  I  am  grateful  unto  my  Father  in  heaven  for  my 
parentage,  for  my  ancestors.  I  represent  the  fourth  generation  in 
the  Church.  My  grandfathers  and  great  grandfathers  and  grand- 
mothers, and  my  father  and  mother  passed  through  all  the  trials  in- 
cident to  the  pioneering  of  this  great  western  wilderness,  and  they 
were  faithful  to  the  truth.  I  ask  for  no  greater  legacy  than  that,  be- 
cause their  lives  were  an  inspiration  to  me,  and  they  encouraged  me 
in  living  the  principles  of  the  gospel.  I  mentioned  this  fact  in  Den- 
ver, that  I  represented  the  fourth  generation  in  the  Church,  and  our 
baby,  a  little  fellow  of  seven  years,  went  to  his  mother  and  said : 
"What  do  you  think  father  called  us  in  meeting?"  And  she  said:  "I 
don't  know,  son,  what  was  it?"  He  said:  "Father  said  that  we  were 
the  fifth  amendment"  (Laughter). 

I  am  also  thankful  that  my  children  are  faithful  to  the  truth, 
and  that  they  are  willing  to  bear  the  same  testimony  that  their  great- 
great-grandparents  bore  concerning  the  restoration  of  the  gospel.  1 
know  as  I  know  that  I  live  that  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salva- 
tion to  every  one  that  believes  and  obeys  the  commandments  of  our 
Father.  I  rejoice  in  the  opportunity  of  bearing  this  testimony  to  the 
people  of  the  earth.    We  are  not  ashamed  of  it. 

"We're  not  ashamed  to  own  our  Lord, 

And  worship  him  on  earth ; 
We  love  to  learn  his  holy  word, 

And  know  what  souls  are  worth." 

We  have  no  controversy  with  the  world,  but,  as  I  say,  we  make 
a  definite  and  a  positive  statement  with  reference  to  the  fundamentals 
of  our  faith.  We  know  that  if  people  will  obey  them  in  their  lives 
that  they  will  receive  the  witness  of  the  spirit  that  it  is  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation.  We  are  not  afraid  to  make  that  statement  .  We 
lay  down  the  gauntlet  to  the  world  and  declare  upon  their  obedience 
to  the  fundamentals  of  the  gospel  they  shall  know  whether  it  is  of 
God  or  whether  we  speak  of  ourselves.  I  thank  the  Lord  for  all  of 
these  blessings.  I  pray  that  his  Spirit  may  attend  us  that  we  may 
have  a  desire  always  to  serve  him  and  to  keep  his  commandments  and 
that  we  may  be  loyal  to  the  presiding  authorities  of  the  Church,  and 
that  when  they  give  us  counsel  and  advice  and  instruction  we  will 
reduce  it  to  practice  in  our  daily  lives. 

May  God  help  us  so  to  do  I  pray  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Redeemer  of  Israel,  our  only 
delight." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Mark  Austin,  president  of 
the  Fremont  stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  was  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Saturday  morning. 


SECOND  DAY 

The  meeting  opened  at  10  a.  m.,  Saturday,  October  7,  1922; 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  presiding. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "How  firm  a  foundation,  ye 
Saints  of  the  Lord." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  William  L.  Rich,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Bear  Lake  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "O  ye  mountains  high." 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

This  very  remarkable  conference,  with  its  great  attendance,  and 
its  pointed  instructions  has  made  me  think  seriously  about  many  im- 
portant matters.  I  have  been  stirred  into  thought,  especially  concern- 
ing the  chief  message  given  us  yesterday  by  President  Grant.  I  have 
been  trying  to  determine  the  causes  or  forces  in  our  civilization  that 
make  men  obedient  to  law,  or  that  make  us  unwilling  to  obey  the  laws 
of  God,  or  of  the  land. 

EDUCATION  AS  A  FACTOR  IN  OBEDIENCE  TO  LAW 

I  have  been  thinking  most,  I  believe,  about  the  part  that  edu- 
cation plays  in  training  our  citizens  to  obey  and  to  sustain  the  law 
and  to  be  loyal  in  all  respects.  There  is  a  tremendous  power  in  edu- 
cation. As  we  are  taught  and  trained  in  schools,  and  by  those  whom 
we  follow,  so  we  become.  The  late  war  gave  us  several  examples  of 
the  power  of  long  continued  education  to  fasten  ideals  upon  a  whole 
nation. 

We  are  an  education  loving  people.  I  was  really  amazed  to  note, 
from  statistics  gathered  by  the  Presiding  Bishop's  office,  as  one  of 
the  fruits  of  this  marvelous  work  known  as  "Mormonism,"  that  of 
all  the  Latter-day  Saints  between  8  and  18  years  of  age,  only  twenty- 
two  have  not  attended  school.  I  doubt  whether  such  a  record  can  be 
duplicated  by  any  other  people,  of  the  same  number,  in  all  the  world. 
Our  schools  and  colleges  are  crowded  to  overflowing.  I  am  informed 
that  the  Agricultural  College  of  Utah  and  the  University  are 
the  two  largest  institutions  of  the  kind  in  the  United  States,  when 
the  population  is  considered.  It  is  proper  for  this  people  to 
be  seekers  after  enlightenment — to  be  education  loving — for  the 
revelations  of  God  declare  that  we  are  to  "seek  out  of  the  best  books 
words  of  wisdom ;  seek  learning,  even  by  study,  and  also  by  faith." 
It  is  also  declared  that  "The  glory  of  God  is .  intelligence."  I  have 
been  wondering  to  what  extent  this  love  for  education  and  this  use 
of  education  may  be  made  to  sustain  the  teachings  given  us  by  the 
prophet  of  God  in  his  address  to  us  yesterday.  The  great  problem 
before  us  seems  to  be  how  to  direct  the  tremendous  power  that  resides 
in  our  educational  desire  and  activity  so  that  our  children  may  become 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


45 


rounded,  well  informed  men  and  women,  not  educated  in  one  direction 
only,  but  rather  so  educated  that  all  their  powers  are  developed  and 
strengthened. 

THE  SPIRITUAL  NATURE  A  BIG  INFLUENCE  IN  EDUCATION 

We  imagine  too  often  that  we  can  place  most  of  our  burdens, 
with  respect  to  our  children,  upon  the  schools ;  yet,  this  is  not  possible, 
for  our  public  schools  are  not  permitted  to  teach  all  that  should  be 
taught  mankind.  As  all  know,  in  our  free  land,  there  is  a  provision 
in  the  constitution  of  the  United  States — perhaps  the  finest  in  the  con- 
stitution— which  provides  for  religious  freedom;  and  in  consonance 
with  that  constitutional  provision,  religious  instruction  is  not  permitted 
in  our  public  schools.  Since  man  is  not  merely  physiological,  or  in- 
tellectual, but  also  spiritual,  our  schools  do  not  wholly  suffice  for  the 
full  training  of  man.  Yet  it  is  quite  as  natural  for  a  man  to  desire 
religious  education  as  to  desire  education  for  his  body  and  mind.  This 
truth  is  borne  out  by  human  experience  to  such  a  degree  that  I  have 
no  need  to  dwell  long  on  it  here;  but  it  came  to  my  at- 
tention again  with  renewed  force  just  a  few  weeks  ago.  I 
had  the  privilege  of  visiting,  in  company  with  two  mem- 
bers of  our  Church,  and  several  who  were  not  members,  the  great  Rain- 
bow bridge,  or  Rainbow  Arch,  located  in  southeastern  Utah,  not  far 
from  the  Arizona  line.  It  is  one  of  the  most  beautiful  of  all  known 
works  of  nature — a  gigantic,  perfectly  formed  bridge  or  arch  of  bril- 
liant red  sandstones  spanning  the  canyon  symmetrically  from  side  to 
side.  Through  the  efforts  of  President  R.  D.  Young  of  Sevier  stake, 
there  was  found,  in  a  squirrel's  hole,  the  registration  book  which  had 
been  used  since  1909  by  the  occasional  visitors  to  this  bridge.  In  this 
book  the  visitors  had  written  their  names  and  comments  that  had 
occurred  to  them.  Some  very  distinguished  names  were  found  in  this 
book.  Theodore  Roosevelt  and  three  of  his  sons  had  been  there,  I 
think  in  1913,  and  had  written  their  names  in  the  book.  The  names  of 
other  men  and  women  of  national  prominence  were  inscribed  in  the 
book.  One  man  of  national  renown  had  written  below  his  name :  "Here 
hath  the  Master  wrought  with  consummate  skill."  This  man,  not 
primarily  a  religious  man,  a  well  known  scientist,  standing  before  this 
marvelous  creation  of  God,  this  great,  wonderful  natural  bridge,  felt 
himself  drawn  to  God,  and  left  a  testimony  of  faith  to  all  who  might 
follow.  Another  man,  under  his  signature,  wrote,  "This  is  a  wonderful 
work  of  God.  Remain  here  and  worship  God  in  all  His  glory."  He 
also  turned  from  the  physical  beauty  of  the  bridge  to  the  great  spirit- 
ual beauty  of  the  Maker  of  the  bridge.  This  is  the  natural  and  normal 
instinct  of  all  men.  We  are  spiritual,  as  well  as  mental  and  physical; 
and  our  education,  to  be  complete,  and  fully  satisfactory,  must  take 
into  account  the  demands  of  the  spiritual  nature  of  man,  and  provide 
for  religious  instruction.  The  man  whose  mind  and  body  alone  are 
trained  is  not  necessarily  a  safe  citizen,  because  such  education  is 
no   guarantee   against   a   criminal   life   or   a   life   of  lawlessness. 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Education  frequently  helps  the  criminal  in  his  lawless  deeds. 
Spiritual  education  is  the  best  known  means  of  causing  men  to  use 
their  powers  for  human  good.  We  are  not  justified  in  sending  our 
children  to  schools  and  colleges  to  be  developed  mentally,  with  just 
the  barest  opportunity  for  spiritual  development  during  the  most  criti- 
cal period  of  their  lives. 

THE  HOME  MUST  NOT  SHIFT  ITS  RESPONSIBILITIES  TO  THE  SCHOOL 

Since  religious  training  is  not  permitted  in  the  public  schools,  be- 
cause it  is  against  the  law  of  the  land,  the  question  is  how  are  we  to 
supplement  the  work  done  in  our  public  schools,  so  that  our  boys  and 
girls  may  be  spiritually  developed,  and  thereby  become  better  able  to 
do  the  things  that  have  been  called  to  our  attention  in  this  conference  ? 
I  am  dwelling  on  this  for  a  few  moments — realizing  that  there  is  no 
time,  since  there  are  many  speakers,  to  develop  this  subject — merely 
to  call  the  attention  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  the  necessity  of  not 
placing  the  whole  burden  of  education  upon  the  schools  of  the  land. 
Too  often,  of  course,  school  trustees  and  school  teachers  are  afraid  of 
doing  what  they  really  might  do,  under  the  constitution  of  the  United 
States.  This  is  not  a  God- forsaken  country;  this  is  essentially  a  God- 
fearing country,  and  there  is  no  reason  why,  in  our  public  schools,  we 
should  not  teach  the  love  and  the  fear  of  God.  Since,  however,  we 
may  not  do  this  as  fully  as  we  would  like,  we  must  go  for  help  to  the 
home  and  to  the  church — the  two  remaining  agencies  for  the  rounding 
out  of  education. 

Those  who  have  read  the  history  of  recent  human  thought,  will 
remember  that  during  the  last  forty  or  fifty  years,  the  fathers  and 
mothers  of  our  land,  having  witnessed  the  wonderful  development  of 
the  educational  system  within  this  country,  have  gradually  placed  in- 
creasingly much  of  their  responsibility  upon  the  school.  The  home 
has  been  minimized  in  importance ;  the  school  has  been  made  larger  in 
importance  than  was  ever  intended  by  the  clear  thinkers  within  the 
field  of  education.  The  home  still  retains  its  duty — the  duty  of  teach- 
ing and  training  and  developing  young  men  and  women  spiritually, 
filling  in  where  the  school  under  the  constitution  is  unable  to  do  its  full 
duty.  The  home  must  not,  and  can  not,  in  safety,  shift  its  responsibil- 
ities to  the  school. 

CHURCH  SCHOOLS  OF  TREMENDOUS  IMPORTANCE  IN  SPIRITUAL  TRAINING 

The  Church  should  likewise  be  of  tremendous  importance  in 
spiritual  training.  In  this  Church  we  have  auxiliaries  of  various  kinds, 
the  chief  purpose  of  which,  as  I  view  it,  is  to  spiritually  train  our 
school-trained  generation.  I  would  like  to  leave  the  thought  with  the 
Latter-day  Saints  on  this  occasion,  that  the  prime  purpose  of  the 
auxiliary  institutions  of  this  Church  is  to  supplement  our  educational 
efforts,  as  made  through  the  public  schools.  The  Church  has  also 
provided  a  system  of  Church  schools — in  possibilities,  the  ideal  school 
of  course — in  which  the  child  the  youth  and  the  maiden  may  receive 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


47 


instruction,  not  only  out  of  books  of  learning  made  by  man,  but  also 
out  of  books  of  God ;  where  man  may  be  trained  physically,  mentally 
and  spiritually  for  complete  living,  and  be  better  fitted  thereby  to 
obey  the  law  and  to  do  all  other  necessary  things  in  living  up  to  the 
teachings  that  are  taught  in  this  and  similar  pulpits  throughout  this 
Church,  and  throughout  other  churches.  A  number  of  splendid  high 
schools,  junior  colleges  and  normal  colleges  are  maintained  by  the 
Church,  to  the  great  advantage  of  thousands  of  students. 

SEMINARIES  AND  RELIGION  CLASSES  WONDERFUL  HELPS  IN 
RELIGIOUS  INSTRUCTION 

But,  it  is  impossible  for  the  Church  to  maintain  church  schools  that 
will  reach  all  the  people,  nor  would  it  be  wise  or  proper  to  maintain 
an  educational  system,  competitive  with  the  public  school  system,  and 
therefore,  we  have  in  this  Church  a  wonderful  organization,  scarcely 
understood  by  the  people,  known  as  the  Religion  Class,  which  is  a 
definite  attempt  under  the  law  to  correlate  religious  instruction  with 
the  work  which  the  law  permits  to  be  done  within  the  elementary  pub- 
lic schools.  I  take  the  liberty  to  call  your  attention  to  the  religion 
classes,  from  this  point  of  view,  in  the  hope  that  all  Latter-day  Saints 
may  give  special  attention  to  the  meaning  and  purpose  of  this  great 
movement  in  the  Church.  Then,  continuing  the  religion  class,  the 
Church  provides  for  the  same  purpose — the  development  of  the  spirit- 
ual man,  so  that,  educationally,  he  may  be  rounded  out  fully,  the  Sem- 
inaries which  are  maintained  for  the  religious  training  of  high  school 
students,  and  in  close  proximity  of  the  high  school,  but  not  in  connection 
with  it.  In  these  institutions  the  young  men  and  women  who  attend 
high  school,  may  receive  an  hour  a  day,  if  possible,  proper 
religious  instruction.  The  Religion  Classes  and  the  Seminaries  pro- 
vide means  by  which  the  training  of  the  boy  and  girl  may  proceed 
symmetrically,  step  by  step — not  in  mental  chunks  one  year  and  re- 
ligious chunks  another — but  so  that  each  year  throughout  the  whole 
course  of  education,  we  may  teach  and  train  all  the  faculties  of  man. 

A  great  university  of  sound  and  modern  scholarship,  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  University,  stands  at  the  head  of  the  Church  school  sys- 
tem, and  serves  students  of  university  grade.  It  is  not  able  to  care 
for  all  the  students  who  desire  to  enter  it.  The  state  of  Utah  main- 
tains a  magnificent  state  university  and  an  equally  magnificent  state 
agricultural  college,  the  students  of  which  no  doubt  will  have  access, 
in  time,  to  devices,  under  the  law,  that  will  enable  them  to  secure  train- 
ing toward  God  as  well  as  toward  material  things. 

This  important  subject  has  rested  on  my  mind  since  yes- 
terday morning,  when  I  heard  our  President  deliver  his  ringing  mes- 
sage in  behalf  of  obedience  to  law ;  and,  as  my  analysis  has  proceeded, 
I  have  come  more  and  more  to  the  conclusion,  that  through  the  public 
school  system,  and  through  our  religious  auxiliaries,  we  may  be  able 
to  help  accomplish  the  thing  for  which  President  Grant  pleaded  yester- 
day. 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


SPIRITUAL  AND  MENTAL  EDUCATION  MAKES  DEPENDABLE  INTELLIGENCE 

In  conclusion  let  me  say  again,  that  to  be  merely  mentally  trained 
is  to  be  only  partly  trained.  The  man  whose  mind  only  has  been 
trained  may  be  likened  to  the  ship  with  great  engines  and  a  huge  pro- 
peller, ready  to  drive  the  ship  forward,  but  without  rudder,  chart,  com- 
pass, or  definite  destination.  When  we  add  to  the  man,  so  trained, 
spiritual  training,  then  it  is  as  if  we  add  to  the  ship,  with  its  wonderful 
machinery,  a  compass,  a  chart,  a  rudder,  and  a  dependable  intelligence 
which  controls  the  whole  machinery,  above  and  below  deck,  so  that 
the  vessel  may  reach  a  safe  haven,  according  to  a  definite  purpose. 

A  TESTIMONY 

May  God  bless  us  in  our  educational  endeavors  and  in  all  our 
endeavors.  May  he  strengthen  us  to  make  us  able  to  fulfil  our  great 
destiny,  to  be  the  great  people  of  the  world  in  virtue  and  righteous- 
ness. I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know  that  the  work  represented 
by  this  Church  is  the  truth ;  that  God  lives ;  that  his  Son  came  on  earth 
in  obedience  to  a  great  plan,  to  suffer  and  to  die  for  us ;  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  who  came  here  to  do  God's  will,  in  con- 
tinuation of  this  mighty  and  eternal  purpose,  and  that  the  Church  is 
still  directed  by  God.  It  is  good  to  be  a  Latter-day  Saint.  I  thank 
God  for  the  privilege  that  has  come  to  me  to  be  a  member  of  this 
Church,  to  share  in  the  privileges  of  the  Priesthood,  and  in  the  blessings 
that  flow  from  it.  God  be  praised  that  he  brought  this  truth  to  me 
and  to  my  family  and  to  you  and  to  yours.  God  be  with  us  always,  I 
ask  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 

{Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church) 

I  am  very  much  impressed  with  the  spirit  of  this  conference.  We 
are  a  record-making  people.  I  have  been  in  parties  that  have  climbed 
to  the  top  of  some  of  our  highest  mountains,  and  I  have  found  there 
hidden  away  in  monuments  or  some  kind  of  hidden  place,  records  of 
those  who  have  made  the  climb. 

I  believe  we  make  our  own  records,  whether  it  be  in  our  schools, 
in  our  homes,  in  our  places  of  business,  or  in  our  fields,  or  where- 
ever  our  lot  may  be  cast. 

A  NAME  IN  THE  SAND 

Alone  I  walked  the  Ocean  strand, 
A  pearly  shell  was  in  my  hand; 
I  stooped  and  wrote  upon  the  sand 

My  name,  the  year,  the  day : 
As  onward  from  the  spot  I  passed, 
One  lingering  look  behind  I  cast, 
A  wave  came  rolling  high  and  fast 

And  washed  my  lines  away. 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


49 


And  so,  me-thought,  'twill  quickly  be 
With  every  mark  on  earth  from  me : 
A  wave  of  dark  oblivion's  sea 

Will  sweep  across  the  place 
Where  I  have  trod  the  sandy  shore 
Of  time,  and  been,  to  be  no  more, — 
Of  me,  my  day,  the  name  I  bore, 

To  leave  no  track  nor  trace. 

And  yet,  with  Him  who  counts  the  sands, 
And  holds  the  waters  in  his  hands, 
I  know  a  lasting  record  stands 

Inscribed  against  my  name, 
Of  all  this  mortal  part  has  wrought, 
Of  all  this  thinking  soul  has  thought, 
All,  from  these  fleeting  moments  caught, 

For  glory  or  for  shame. 

George  Denison  Prentice. 

There  was  a  time  in  the.  history  of  this  people  when  it  was  dif- 
ficult for  us  to  obtain  books  in  which  to  keep  the  records  of  our 
work  and  our  doings,  but  today  we  have  almost  astonishing  equip- 
ment; that  is,  it  is  astonishing  to  our  minds  because  of  its  nature.  It 
is  so  convenient,  so  adequate  to  our  needs.  I  remember  when  I  was 
about  sixteen  or  seventeen  years  of  age,  my  father  moved  his  family 
from  the  ward,  and  when  we  went  to  get  our  transfer  we 
discovered  that  the  record  was  not  complete.  The  ward  clerk  had 
failed  to  record  the  dates  of  baptism  of  the  children.  Well,  what 
was  to  be  done?  We  knew  that  we  had  been  baptized,  we  knew  that 
we  were  members  of  the  Church,  because  we  had  kept  our  own  rec- 
ords. My  father  had  kept  a  record  of  his  family  and  the  bishop  and 
his  clerk  were  provided  with  the  record  of  the  baptism  of  my  father's 
children,  and  so  when  we  moved  away  from  the  ward  we  left  it  with 
a  complete  record  of  our  standing  and  membership  in  the  Church. 
Well,  now  I  am  wondering  how  many  before  my  day  found  it  difficult 
to  keep  a  record  of  the  fact  that  certain  ordinance  work  was  per- 
formed in  the  Church,  and  I  suppose  that  in  the  early  history  of  this 
people  a  great  many  records  were  neglected  for  the  want  of  suitable 
and  prepared  material.  But  today  scarcely  anything  is  neglected  for 
the  want  of  suitable  material  and  equipment.  I  thank  the  Lord  for 
the  many  wonderful  things  that  have  been  provided  by  way  of  lighten- 
ing the  burdens  of  those  who  keep  records.  In  my  experience  I  can 
appreciate  these  material  blessings  which  we  enjoy  today.  I  can  see 
my  grandfather  in  the  many,  many  years  that  he  was  Presiding  Pa- 
triarch of  the  Church,  waiting  patiently  while  someone  wrote  by  hand, 
in  longhand,  hundreds  and  hundreds  of  his  blessings  pronounced  upon 
the  heads  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Today  nearly  all  of  this  record 
making  work  that  is  done  in  the  Presiding  Patriarch's  office,  is  done 
by  machinery  ;  a  great  blessing  in  the  saving  of  time  and  energy  to 
all  parties  concerned.  And  in  my  opinion  the  process  of  record  keep- 
ing in  the  Church  was  never  more  satisfactorily  done  than  at  the 
present  time.    So  I  speak  personally  with  gratitude  in  my  heart  for 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  blessings  of  the  Lord  in  providing  means  of  equipment  to  lighten 
our  burdens,  that  we  may  do  the  work  required  of  us  in  a  pleasing 
and  acceptable  way,  and  not  avoid  any  of  it  or  let  it  pass  unaccom- 
plished. 

I  am  grateful  unto  the  Lord  for  the  comfortable  homes  that  we 
as  Latter-day  Saints  possess  today.  I  thank  the  Lord  that  he  has 
blessed  us  with  homes  and  fields  and  flocks  and  herds,  with  the  in- 
dustries that  are  suitable  and  needful,  as  well  as  some  of  the  best 
schools  in  all  the  world,  with  some  of  the  best  teachers  in  all  the 
world.  I  thank  the  Lord  that  we  have  at  our  disposal  such  adequate 
means  of  transportat'ion,  that  such  a  body  of  people  as  was  seen  here 
yesterday  morning  could  come  even  in  the  middle  of  the  week  if  nec- 
essary to  meet  in  general  conference  at  the  call  of  the  President  of  the 
Church.  People  from  almost  all  quarters  of  the  world  met  here  at 
an  appointed  date  and  time. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  this  good  weather  which  makes  it  possible 
for  us  to  enjoy  this  conference,  the  occasion  is  a  time  in  my  life  of 
rejoicing  and  thanksgiving.  I  take  the  liberty,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, as  an  officer  in  the  Church,  to  acknowledge  the  hand  of  God  in 
his  blessings  to  us  and  to  this  people;  not  only  in  the  few  things  which 
I  have  mentioned,  but  in  the  many,,  many  things,  even  in  the  detail  of 
our  work,  in  the  different  responsibilities  that  come  to  us  who  are 
called  to  carry  on  the  Lord's  work.  I  acknowledge  his  hand  in  the 
many  blessings  which  he  has  placed  at  our  very  doors. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  let  me  urge  that  we,  both  old  and 
young,  begin  to  appreciate  our  blessings,  begin  to  take  notice  of  the 
fact  that  the  Lord  is  blessing  us,  for  I  declare  to  you  that  the  Lord 
has  prepared  many  great  and  important  blessings,  and  every  one  of 
them,  as  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has  declared,  is  predicated  upon 
obedience  to  law.  There  isn't  the  slightest  kind  of  a  blessing,  neither 
small  nor  great  of  any  kind,  that  you  or  I  may  receive  or  do  receive 
except  we  obey  tlie  law  upon  which  that  blessing  is  predicated.  Now, 
what  a  grand  and  a-  glorious  thing  it  is  when  we  know  the  laws  upon 
which  our  blessings  are  predicated.  They  have  been  taught  to  us  in 
our  own  language,  revealed  from  heaven  for  our  own  benefit,  for  the 
salvation  of  both  the  living  and  the  dead.  What  a  glorious  thing  to 
know.  Let  us  take  advantage  of  the  fact  that  these  blessings  and  the 
laws  upon  which  they  are  predicated  are  revealed  to  us,  a  people  who 
have  been  gathered  into  this  quarter  from  every  civilized  nation  under 
heaven,  to  bring  about  the  purposes  of  God  in  these  the  last  days,  to 
fulfil  those  wonderful  prophecies  that  were  made  upon  the  head  of 
that  wonderful  progenitor  of  ours,  Joseph,  who  was  sold  by  his  breth- 
ren ;  and  as  was  related  yesterday,  the  great  majority  of  us  discover 
through  our  blessings  that .  we  are  descendants  of  his  chosen  son 
Ephraim,  to  whom  the  greatest  responsibility  was  given  at  the  time 
of  his  blessing.  Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  appreciate  our  privileges 
and  the  day  and  time  in  which  we  live,  for  the  Lord  has  said  where 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


51 


much  is  given  much  is  required.  None  of  us,  I  suppose,  are  above 
making  mistakes,  but  when  we  discover  that  we  have  made  mistakes 
it  is  a  very  simple  thing  on  our  part  to  correct  them.  When  we  do 
wrong  we  know  we  do  wrong,  every  one  of  us.  What  a  noble  thing 
it  is  in  us,  when  we  discover  that  we  have  done  wrong,  to  do  our  duty, 
and  correct  that  wrong.  The  Lord  through  his  ancient  and  modern 
servants  has  declared  that  he  that  is  a  committer  of  sin  is  a  servant 
of  sin.  When  we  discover  that  we  have  done  wrong  we  know  that  we 
have  grieved  the  Lord. 

Therefore,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  let  me  urge  you  to  repent 
of  wrong-doing  when  you  discover  that  it  has  been  done,  that  we  may 
obey  the  laws  which  have  been  given  to  us,  the  laws  of  the  everlasting 
gospel,  the  laws  of  life  and  salvation.  Let  us  prepare  ourselves, 
through  the  light  of  truth  that  has  been  given  us,  that  the  wonderful 
blessings  which  were  promised  hundreds  and  hundreds  of  years  ago 
would  be  given,  may  be  given  to  us  who  live  in  the  very  time  that  the 
prophet  declared  they  should  be,  for  these  truly  are  the  last  days, 
when  the  Lord  has  set  his  hand  for  the  last  time  to  accomplish  his 
work  upon  the  earth,  and  may  we  be  true  and  faithful  and  be  able  to 
carry  the  burdens  placed  upon  us,  and  with  all  the  advantages  and  the 
blessings  of  equipment  of  every  name  and  nature  that  are  placed  at  our 
disposal,  may  we  not  be  worldly,  but  may  we  remember  our  blessings 
and  our  privileges,  and  the  promises  that  are  made  unto  us.  May  we 
receive  those  blessings ;  and  may  we  be  spared  from  the  calamities  and 
judgments  which  may  come  into  our  midst  or  surround  us.  May  we 
observe  to  live  pure  and  simple  lives, — true  Latter-day  Saints,  and  enjoy 
the  blessings  of  the  home  and  the  field  and  the  office,  the  blessings 
of  God  which  are  surrounding-  us.  May  his  blessings  continue  to  be 
with  us  and  with  this  people,  that  we  may  enjoy  his  preserving  and 
protecting  care,  that  we  may  not  fall  heir  through  our  weaknesses  to 
disturbances  and  calamities  which  are  prepared  for  the  world.  I  know, 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  are  very  prone  through  our  pride,  some- 
times, and  perhaps  through  our  false  education,  or  perhaps  through 
some  other  cause,  to  be  very  prompt  in  following  the  fashions  of  the 
world ;  but  let  me  raise  my  voice  in  warning  against  this  practice 
among  us  as  a  people,  that  we  be  not  followers  of  the  fashions  of 
the  world,  lest  we  be  followers  of  those  for  whom  the  judgments  and 
the  calamities  have  been  prepared.  If  we  follow  the  fashions  of  the 
world,  then  we  place  barriers  in  our  own  pathway,  and  prevent  our 
Father  from  bestowing  upon  us  those  marvelous  blessings  which  he 
has  prepared  for  the  faithful.  Let  me  urge  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  to  remember  that  we  are  not  of  the  world,  therefore  we  need 
not  follow  the  follies  and  the  fashions  of  the  world,  but  let  us  be  old- 
fashioned  enough  to  be  Saints  of  God,  pure  and  modest  in  our  con- 
duct, in  our  dress,  and  in  our  social  affairs. 

May  God  bless  us  that  we  may  have  the  courage  of  our  convic- 
tions, whether  we  be  young  or  old,  to  live  true  to  the  faith,  receive 
these  marvelous  blessings,  and  stand  prepared  to  carry  forward  the 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


work  of  God,  to  be  his  chosen  people  and  accomplish  his  work,  whether 
we  be  reared  here  in  the  valleys  of  the  mountains  or  whether  we  come 
from  foreign  countries.  Let  us  be  faithful  and  the  Lord  will  re- 
member us,  for  he  is  a  just  God  and  his  mercies  and  favors  will  be 
upon  us  as  individuals  and  as  a  people  if  we  will  only  observe  to  fol- 
low the  laws  and  commandments  which  have  been  given  us,  upon  which 
our  blessings  are  predicated.  God  bless  you  all,  those  whom  he  has 
called  to  hold  positions  of  leadership  and  responsibility,  from  the 
President  of  the  Church  to  the  least  and  last  one  called. 

I  rejoice  in  having  the  privilege  of  being  a  member  of  this  great 
conference,  in  the  presence  of  leading  spirits,  both  men  and  women. 
I  rejoice  in  the  privilege  that  I  have  of  going  about  in  the  stakes  and 
wards  of  Zion  mingling  my  soul  and  spirit  with  these  choice  men  and 
women  of  the  Church.  God  bless  you  all  in  your  different  responsi- 
bilities that  the  Lord's  work  may  be  accomplished  to  his  honor  and 
glory,  both  in  this  life  and  in  the  life  to  come,  through  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

Pearl  Kimball  Davis  sang  a  solo  entitled,  "Eye  Hath  Not  Seen." 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

My  soul  is  overflowing  with  deep  gratitude  this  day  that  in  the 
providences  and  mercies  of  the  Lord  I  have  been  permitted  to  live 
upon  the  earth  in  this  generation,  and  that  I  have  been  so  blessed  of 
him,  through  the  obedience  of  my  grandparents,  on  both  sides,  to 
the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  to  be  associated  and  identified 
with  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  know  of  no  time  in  all  the  splendid 
past  when,  if  I  had  been  given  the  privilege  of  coming  to  the  earth, 
I  would  rather  have  come  than  now.  I  am  therefore  grateful  for  life, 
for  being,  for  knowledge  and  testimony  that  I  have  concerning  the 
work  with  which  I  am  identified. 

ANXIOUS  FOR  RAPID  GROWTH  AND  STEADY  PROGRESS 

When  I  see  the  future  of  this  people,  through  the  revelations 
which  the  Lord  has  given  and  through  individual  inspiration  he  gives 
to  us,  and  grasp  and  comprehend  the  greatness  of  this  work,  I  con- 
fess that  I  sometimes  almost  become  impatient  in  my  keen  anxiety  and 
desire  to  see  the  work  go  forward  more  rapidly.  I  recognize  that 
large  bodies  move  slowly,  and  while  we  as  a  people  are  not  large  in 
comparison  with  the  world,  nevertheless  we  are  becoming  a  body  of 
considerable  size,  and  naturally  the  progress  will  be  rather  slow,  but 
I  am  so  anxious  that  it  shall  be  a  steady  progress  towards  the  great 
and  glorious  goal  God  has  destined  for  this  people. 

OUR  MISSION  TO  INDIVIDUALS  AND  TO  NATIONS 

I  recognize  the  truth  of  what  was  said  yesterday  relative  to  our 
mission  being  to  the  world,  to  men  and  women  in  the  world  inclivid- 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


53 


ually,  and  also  that  we  have  a  mission  to  declare  the  glad  news  that 
the  only  plan  and  the  only  way  by  which  even  nations  may  survive 
is  by  and  through  the  plan  that  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  has  devised,  and 
has  regiven  again  to  the  earth  in  this  dispensation.  Recognizing  all 
that,  I  still  realize,  as  you  do,  I  am  sure,  that  there  is  a  tremendous 
responsibility  resting  upon  us  as  individuals  to  contribute  individually 
to  the  accomplishment  of  God's  great  purpose,  in  establishing  this  peo- 
ple, calling  them  out  from  the  world  for  a  distinct  and  specific  pur- 
pose, and  I  am  anxious  that  nothing,  so  far  as  the  outside  is  concerned, 
or  that  may  arise  from  the  inside  of  this  Church,  shall  in  any  sense 
retard  the  progress  of  the  work. 

THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  A  PECULIAR  PEOPLE 

We  are  not  fanatics,  as  some  have  thought  we  are,  and  some 
still  say  that  we  are  a  freak  people,  and  believe  in  freak  things.  Let 
them  say  what  they  will.  If  it  is  freakish  to  serve  God  and  keep  his 
commandments,  if  it  is  freakish  for  us  to  observe  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom and  abstain  from  the  use  of  tobacco  and  tea  and  coffee,  then  let 
us  be  a  freakish  people.  I  would  like  to  be  that  kind.  The  Lord  has 
said  that  this  people  would  be  a  peculiar  people  quite  unlike  anybody 
else;  but  while  we  are  in  the  world  we  are  not  to  be  of  the  world. 
We  are  to  be  different,  we  expect  to  be  different,  we  rather  pride  our- 
selves on  the'  fact  that  we  are  different,  and  I  hope  the  day  will  never 
come  but  that  we  shall  be  different  from  the  world  generally  speak- 
ing, but  that  difference  must  not  be  a  difference  only  of  view;  it  must 
be  a  difference  of  life;  it  must  be  a  difference  of  standards;  it  must 
be  a  difference  in  quality  and  not  only  in  profession.  I  rejoice  when 
I  see  the  fruits  of  the  work.  When  I  see  the  progress,  slow  as  it  seems 
to  be  at  times,  nevertheless  there  is  progress.  I  rejoice  in  it.  I  am 
convinced,  however,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  that  progress,  so 
far  as  the  work  is  concerned,  might  go  forward  more  rapidly  if  only 
we  were  willing.  The  Lord  is  willing,  and  great  and  important  things 
that  he  has  in  store  for  Zion,  await  us  on  condition  of  our  preparation 
for  their  coming  forth.  If  only  we  had  been  willing  we  might  have 
been  far  beyond  where  we  are ;  but  the  Lord  is  very  patient,  and  I  am 
sure  his  servants  who  have  led  this  people  have  been  patient  with 
them,  although  at  times  undoubtedly  they  have  been  sorely  tried  to  see 
an  apparent  spirit  of  indifference  towards  vital  things  to  which  the 
attention  of  the  people  has  been  called.  But  nevertheless  the  Lord  has 
been  patient,  and  the  leaders  of  the  people  have  been  patient  and  will 
continue  to  be,  and  the  Lord  is  going  to  take  care  of  this  people  ulti- 
mately, because  he  has  promised  it ;  he  made  that  promise  to  Daniel  of 
old,  that  this  work  should  never  be  thrown  down  nor  should  it  be 
left  to  another  people.  By  and  through  this  people  shall  these  glorious 
things  be  accomplished,  though  many  shall  fall  by  the  wayside  on  the 
right  hand  and  on  the  left  hand.  This  work  shall  go  forward,  this 
work  is  not  builded  upon  a  single  theory,  nor  is  it  on  a  narrow 
foundation;  everything  that  affects  and  interests  the  human  family 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


has  part  and  place  in  this  great  work.  We  recognize  that  while  we 
have  received  revelations  from  the  Lord  for  spiritual  guidance,  and 
divine  truths  pertaining  to  man's  salvation  here  and  hereafter,  that 
reach  beyond  any  revelations  that  have  ever  been  given  of  the  Lord 
in  any  former  dispensation,  nevertheless  this  people  also  are  a  very 
material  people,  having  to  do  with  material  things. 

THE  SAINTS  MUST  BE  MATERIALLY  AS  WELL  AS  SPIRITUALLY  STRONG 

We  recognize  the  fact  that  this  people  must  be  materially  strong 
and  prosperous  in  order  that  they  may  attain  the  fulness  of  God's 
work  and  establish  it  as  he  would  have  it.  It  cannot  be  done  with 
a  people  who  are  in  financial  bondage,  or  who  are  in  distress.  I 
am  convinced  that  the  day  is  coming,  indeed  it  is  here,  and  it  will  be 
more  apparent  to  the  generations  that  shall  follow  us,  that  the  Lord 
has  had  just  as  keen  an  interest  in  bringing  this  people  to  material 
prosperity  as  to  spiritual  blessings,  and  spiritual  prosperity.  He  has 
recognized  the  need  of  material  assistance  in  the  establishment  of  his 
work  upon  the  earth  in  preparation  for  the  coming  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  From  the  days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the  Lord  has 
shown  forth  inspiration  in  material  things  for  the  blessing  and  sal- 
vation of  this  people.  When  he  led  this  people  to. these  valleys  of  the 
mountains,  he  inspired  his  servant  President  Young  to  point  this  out 
as  the  place,  and  he  said  it  was  the  place,  it  was  not  only  the  place  for 
spiritual  development  and  for  laying  the  foundation  or  building  upon 
the  foundation  that  had  already  been  laid  for  the  establishment  of 
God's  work  in  the  earth,  so  far  as  his  Church  was  concerned,  but  it 
was  the  place  for  the  material  prosperity  of  his  people.  Yet  it  was 
not  the  place  where  they  could  get  rich  quick.  Thank  the  Lord,  that 
condition  never  has  obtained  and  it  never  will*  It  is  a  place  where 
there  is  an  abundance,  as  has  often  been  remarked,  that  the  com- 
munities where  the  Latter-day  Saints  live  are  provided  with  more 
material  blessings  and  natural  resources  than  perhaps  any  other  com- 
munity of  a  similar  size  in  any  part  of  the  known  globe;  that  we 
could  be  fenced  out  from  the  rest  of  the  world  and  could  survive  in 
comfort,  for  the  abundance  of  the  things  of  the  earth  are  here ;  but 
they  cannot  be  very  easily  obtained.  They  can  only  be  obtained  through 
great  effort,  great  struggle  and  through  faith  and  through  the  bless.- 
ings  of  the  Almighty. 

FAITH  AND  WORKS  REQUIRED 

I  rejoice  that  it  has  required  struggle,  that  it  has  required  effort 
to  the  attainment  of  these  material  things.  That  in  itself  is  a  great 
blessing  to  the  people.  Likewise  it  has  always  been  necessary  that 
there  shall  be  a  combination  of  faith  and  works  on  the  part  of  the 
people  who  wrest  from  these  valleys  and  these  mountains  material  re- 
sources for  their  blessing  and  benefit  in  a  material  way.  I  am  glad 
that  that  is  true,  for  it  does  seem  to  me,  that  we  are  in  the  very  place 
where  all  the  most  desirable  qualities  of  the  human  being — faith, 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


55 


physical  power,  stick-to-it-iveness,  devotion,  self  denial  and  persever- 
ance, all  are  developed  by  the  very  circumstances  with  which  we  are 
surrounded ;  and  it  never  will  be  possible  for  a  lazy  people,  for  an  idle 
people,  for  a  speculative  people  to  prosper  in  these  Rocky  Mountain 
valleys.  God  will  not  allow  the  conditions  to  alter  and  change  very 
materially  from  what  they  are.  They  will  come  by  slow  processes 
and  through  the  faith  and  the  diligence  of  the  people.  These  ma- 
terial blessings  will  continue  to  flow  untoi  them  in  abundance;  but  I 
am  pleading  now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
shall  give  just  a  little  bit  more  thought  and  consideration  in  seeking 
the  Lord  for  material  blessings.  He  is  interested  in  your  material  pros- 
perity. He  is  concerned  about  it,  and  I  am  sure  that  he  has  heard  the 
prayers  of  our  fathers  and  mothers  long  before  this  day  in  these  val- 
leys, and  has  made  it  possible  for  the  wilderness  to  blossom  as  the 
rose.  We  have  given  him.  credit  for  it.  It  is  he  who  stayed  the  early 
and  the  late  frosts,  it  is  he  who  has  altered  the  conditions  under  the 
faithfulness  and  the  labors  of  the  brethren  and  sisters,  too,  and  has 
brought  us  this  blessed  condition  that  now  obtains ;  but  I  wish  to  say  to 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  our  present  material  advantages  and 
our  maintaining  them,  all  depend  on  our  continual  faithfulness.  This 
will  not  be  a  land  of  Zion  unto  this  people  except  this  people  shall  pay 
their  tithes  and  their  offerings.  There  are  blessings  for  which  we 
depend  upon  the  Lord.  While  we  are  anxious  that  we  shall  employ 
all  the  skill  and  the  wisdom  of  man,  and  physical  power  and  ability, 
in  the  accomplishment  of  these  things,  all  the  wisdom  of  man,  all  his 
physical  power,  all  his  genius,  cannot  succeed  except  God  shall  bless 
his  labors ;  and  if  he  shall  bless  them,  and  if  we  shall  be  diligent,  if 
we  shall  be  anxious  to  do  our  part,  I  am  sure  the  result  will  be  all 
that  is  desired. 

THE  KEY  TO  OUR  LINE  OF  CONDUCT 

I  would  like  to  call  your  attention  to  a  line  of  conduct  that  I 
think  every  Latter-day  Saint  ought  to  follow,  even  in  material  things, 
as  well  as  spiritual.  The  key  may  be  found  in  the  ninth  Section  of 
the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  The,  circumstances  are  these : 
Oliver  Cowdery  was  translating,  for  God  gave  him  the  privilege,  with 
the  Prophet  Joseph,  to  translate  the  Book  of  Mormon;  and  as  he  pro- 
ceeded, suddenly  his  ability  to  translate  ceased.  He  was  puzzled  at  it, 
humiliated,  bewildered,  and  wanted  to  know  why,  and  the  Lord  gave 
an  answer.    I  am  reading  now  from  the  7th  verse  of  that  9th  section : 

"Behold,  you  have  not  understood;  you  have  supposed  that  I  would 
give  it  unto  you,  when  you  took  no  thought  save  it  was  to  ask  me. 

"But,  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  you  must  study  it  out  in  your  mind; 
then  you  must  ask  me  if  it  be  right,  and  if  it  is  right  I  will  cause  that  your 
bosom  shall  burn  within  you;  therefore,  you  shall  feel  that  it  is  right. 

"But  if  it  be  not  right  you  shall  have  no  such  feelings,  but  you  shall 
have  a  stupor  of  thought  that  shall  cause  you  to)  forget  the  thing  which  is 
wrong;  therefore,  you  cannot  write  that  which  is  sacred  save  it  be  given 
you  from  me." 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


That  key  can  be  applied  in  spiritual  and  in  material  things.  I 
know  it,  and  I  am  asking  all  you  Latter-day  Saints  to  employ  just 
that  process  in  your  material  affairs.  When  you  contemplate  the  en- 
larging of  your  possessions,  when  you  are  studying  the  question  as 
to  what  you  should  plant  and  what  you  should  do,  what  you  should 
buy  and  what  you  should  sell;  that  is  all  vital  after  all,  because  if  this 
people  are  wrecked  financially  it  will  be  an  exceedingly  difficult  thing, 
it  will  take  a  long  time  for  this  work  to  be  accomplished,  except  there 
is  material  assistance  available  for  the  accomplishment  of  it  individ- 
ually and  collectively.  So  I  am  inviting  you  to  study  it  out  in  your 
own  minds.  Yes,  think  about  it  and  watch  carefully  the  impressions 
of  the  Spirit. 

WHAT  BRINGS  SUCCESS? 

I  have  said  this  also :  Success  does  not  come  from  mind  power ; 
the  brain  does  not  bring  success.  It  is  helpful,  undoubtedly,  but  some 
of  the  wisest  and  some  of  the  brainiest  men  in  the  world  have  been 
altogether  wrong  in  the  last  few  years.  Surely  it  has  been  a  time 
when  the  wisdom  of  the  wise  in  material  things  has  perished,  and  the 
understanding  of  the  prudent  is  hidden  and  is  not  available ;  because  it 
has  not  been  only  the  poor  who  have  suffered,  but  those  of  large  means 
in  the  world.  The  shrewdest  bankers  in  New  York  miss  it  entirely, 
and  their  wisdom  was  not  sufficient  to  meet  the  emergencies.  Neither 
is  it  physical  strength  that  brings  material  success  and  prosperity, 
for  there  are  physical  giants  who  are  paupers,  and  they  may  be  found 
everywhere.  Neither  is  it  hard  work,  alone  by  itself,  that  brings  suc- 
cess. That  is  necessary ;  brains  are  necessary ;  physical  strength  is 
essential,  and  so  is  hard  work;  but  all  these  combined  may  make  a 
total  failure.  What  is  it  that  really  brings  success?  It  is  doing  the 
right  thing  at  the  right  time.  That  is  a  very  simple  thing,  surely,  and 
yet  it  is  true.  Men  in  the  world  who  succeed,  if  you  ask  them  why: 
"Oh  I  got  a  'hunch'  that  I  ought  to  do  so  and  so."  We  do  not  use 
that  language  and  yet'  we  recognize  that  it  is  possible  for  a  man  or  a 
woman  to  get  an  inspiration — an  inspiration  or  an  impression  from 
the  Lord  who  knows  what  is  coming.  He  knows  whether  that  thing 
is  going  to  be  successful  this  year  or  not.  It  is  the  easiest  thing  in  the 
world  for  him  to  give  men  and  women  an  impression  that  this  is  the 
thing  to  do. 

TAKE   COUNSEL  TOGETHER 

I  have  said  that  it  is  a  mighty  good  thing  for  brethren  to  counsel 
with  their  wives  about  their  material  affairs,  although  some  of  us  think 
that  a  woman  does  not  have  any  reason  for  doing  what  she  does  do, 
only  she  just  does  it  "because."  It  is  usually  because  she  is  right,  be- 
cause she  gets  the  inspiration,  sometimes  much  quicker  than  a  man. 
She  does  not  understand  your  problems,  but  somehow  in  her  heart  she 
feels  "that  is  not  right,  that  is  not  going  to  come  out  right,"  she  doesn't 
feel  good  about  it.    It  is  a  mighty  good  thing  to  take  conusel  to- 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


57 


gather.  I  have  said  if  you  do  not  do'  it  but  go  ahead  on  your  own  ac- 
count and  use  your  own  judgment  and  wisdom,  setting  hers  aside,  and 
you  make  a  failure,  you  will  hear  about  it  for  a  long  time  afterwards. 
(Laughter.) 

CONSULT  THE  LORD  AND  HIS  PRIESTHOOD  ABOUT  IT 

So  that,  it  is  a  mighty  good  thing  to  utilize  all  the  intelligence,  all 
the  wisdom  we  have  in  our  circle  among  our  boys  and  our  girls.  The 
decision  does  not  rest  wholly  with  father,  but  counsel  is  taken,  and 
we  study  it  out  in  our  own  minds  and  then  we  endeavor  to  reach  our 
conclusion.  Then,  when  we  have  reached  it,  wait  a  minute;  do  not 
go  forward  yet.  My  Scotch  grandfather  used  often  to  quote  this 
Scotch  maxim :  "Be  sure  you  are  right  and  then  go  ahead."  Now  I 
think  we  can  be  sure  we  are  right.  If  we  think  we  are  right,  the 
Lord  has  invited  us  to  go  to  him  and  ask  him  if  the  thing  we  have 
planned  to  do,  even  in  material  things,  is  right.  "If  it  is  right, 
cause  that  my  bosom  shall  burn  within  me,  that  peace  shall  be  there, 
that  contentment  shall  dwell,  and  I  will  have  the  conviction  that  it  is 
the  right  thing.  If  it  is  not  right,  let  there  be  a  stupor  of  thought 
and  an  uneasiness,  and  my  mind  will  not  be  clear  on  it,  my  heart  will 
be  turned  away  from  it."  If  you  do  not  get  that  conviction  you  would 
better  try  again.  You'd  better  study  it  out  again.  But  I  am  going  to 
ask  you  to  do  something  else.  This  Priesthood  does  not  desire  to 
bring  the  people  of  the  Church  under  its  direction  in  material  things, 
but  I  want  to  tell  you  that  this  Priesthood  is  under  the  guidance  of 
God  Almighty ;  I  want  to  tell  you  that  the  man  who  presides  over 
this  Church,  and  those  who  have  presided  over  this  Church,  are  wiser  in 
material  things  than  any  other  men  in  this  Church.  God  has  made  it  so. 
His  wisdom  has  prevailed  and  has  been  vindicated  time  and  time  again. 
Then  here  is  a  safe  guide  for  this  people :  to  take  counsel  from  those 
whom  the  Lord  inspires,  and  the  Lord  is  the  wisest  financier:  there 
is  none  like  him,  not  only  in  spiritual,  but  in  material  things. 

And  I  assure  you  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  these  stake  presi- 
dents, the  bishops  of  these  wards,  upon  whom  the  hands  of  the  ser- 
vants of  God  have  been  laid,  and  who  have  been  blessed  and  set  apart 
to  be  watchmen  upon  the  towers  of  Zion,  to  be  shepherds  of  the  flock, 
are  blest  with  and  enjoy  an  inspiration  for  the  blessing  and  guidance 
of  the  people  that  is  of  great  value  to  them  in  spiritual  and  in  material 
things.  Go  to  your  bishop,  talk  with  him  about  it.  "Well,"  one  will 
say,  "I  will  not  do  that.  My  bishop  doesn't  know  as  much  about  this 
business  as  I  do.  It  would  be  a  humiliation  for  me  to  go  to  him." 
He  may  not  be  very  successful  himself,  but  he  is  able  to  give  you  the 
right  counsel  and  advice,  and  he  will  never  direct  you  wrong.  I 
heard  "Uncle"  Jesse  Knight  say  upon  one  occasion — and  you  will  par- 
don me  referring  to  him,  because  I  think  he  is  a  shining  example  in 
this  respect,  and  you  know  he  was  exceedingly  successful  in  mining 
enterprises — I  heard  him  say  that  he  never  went  into  a  venture  in  his 
life  without  going  to  see  his  bishop  and  having  a  talk  with  him  about 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


it.  His  bishop  knew  very  little,  I  presume,  about  the  particular  in- 
dustries that  Brother  Knight  was  engaged  in;  but  his  testimony 
was :  "The  bishop  never  gave  me  wrong  advice ;  not  once  did  he  lead 
me  astray  or  give  me  wrong  advice  or  counsel. 

A  RECENT  VALUABLE  EXAMPLE 

I  want  to  bear  witness,  therefore,  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
it  has  been  manifest  among  this  people  since  the  last  conference  held 
here,  that  if  this  people  would  have  listened  more  diligently  than  they 
have  done  to  the  counsel  of  the  President  of  the  Church  and  to  the 
brethren  who  have  visited  you  in  the  stakes  and  wards,  this  people 
would  have  been  millions  of  dollars  better  off  today  than  they  are. 

Some  of  you  think:  "Oh,  the  President  of  the  Church  had  a  selfish 
motive"  when  he  advised  you  to  raise  sugar  beets,  when  he  told  you 
it  was  a  good  and  profitable  thing  for  you.  I  know  that  we  visited 
you  in  your  wards  and  stakes  and  pleaded  with  you  to  do  the  same 
thing,  assuring  you  that  it  was  a  good  thing  for  the  people,  irrespective 
of  the  industry  itself  or  looking  at  it  from  the  business  investment  point 
of  view.  Now,  was  it  right?  Was  it  right?  You  answer  it!  I  tell 
you  again,  that  if  all  the  people  had  listened,  they  would  have  been,  in 
the  aggregate,  worth  millions  of  dollars  more  than  they  are  today. 

Spiritual  guidance  in  material  things  is  a  mighty  good  guidance; 
I  know  that.  I  ask,  therefore,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  you  pay  just 
a  little  'bit  more  attention  to  the  Lord  and  his  help  and  his  inspiration, 
through  his  servants  and  to  you  individually  in  these  matters.  Then 
I  want  to  say  to  you  that  you  can,  if  you  have  with  all  earnestness  of 
heart  paid  your  tithing  and  done  so  honestly  and  justly,  you  can  go  to 
the  Lord  with  faith  and  claim  his  blessings  and  he  will  hear  you,  he 
will  answer  your  prayers,  he  will  stay  the  elements  for  your  good,  he 
will  bring  those  blessings  in  abundance  to  maintain  you  and  to  liberate 
you  from  your  difficulties,  if  this  people  will  only  listen  to  the  counsel 
that  has  been  given  them.  I  am  very  anxious  and  very  jealous  that 
we  shall  succeed,  for  I  know  in  the  heart  of  President  Grant  and  in  the 
heart  of  his  brethren  is  burning  the  desire  that  this  people  shall  be 
prosperous.  There  is  no  selfish  motive  there  at  all.  If  it  seems  to  be 
for  one  particular  interest,  after  all,  it  is  for  the  general  good  and  the 
material  welfare  and  prosperity  of  this  people. 

HOW  WE  MAY  BE  SHELTERED  FROM  COMING  STORMS 

I  said  that  I  rejoiced  that  we  are  here.  I  rejoice  that  the  Lord 
has  brought  this  people  up  unto  the  right  place.  He  knew  all  about 
what  was  coming.  He  knows  our  present  needs,  he  is  anxiously  wait- 
ing, patiently  waiting,  and  is  sometimes,  I  fear,  almost  disgusted  with 
some  of  us  because  of  our  slowness,  because  of  our  stupidity,  because 
we  are  dull  students,  and  do  not  learn  as  fast  as  we  ought  to,  yet  he 
is  patient  with  us. 

In  conclusion  I  wish  to  read  a  few  verses  from  the  115th  section 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  in  which  I  think  I  see,  again,  God's 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


59 


watchcare  and  providence  over  this  people  in  providing  this  place 
for  us  and  these  very  conditions  under  which  we  live.  Addressing 
the  Church,  the  Lord  says — reading  now  from  the  4th  verse  of  that 
115th  section: 

"For  thus  shall  my  Church  be  called  in  the  last  days,  even  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

"Verily  I  say  unto  you  all:  Arise  and  shine  forth,  that  thy  light  may  be 
a  standard  for  the  nations; 

"And  that  the  gathering  together  upon  the  land  of  Zion,  and  upon  her 
stakes,  may  be  for  a  defense,  and  for  a  refuge  from  the  storm,  and  from 
wrath  when  it  shall  be  poured  out  without  mixture  upon  the  whole  earth." 

Do  you  not  know,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  God  knew  what 
was  coming ;  that  he  brought  this  people  into  these  mountain  valleys 
as  a  place  of  refuge  when  the  storm  shall  come.  We  only  hear  the 
beginning  of  that  storm.  Dismal  and  distressful  as  has  been  its 
approach,  while  its  thunders  and  its  flashings  have  filled  our  hearts 
with  terror,  it  is  but  the  beginning  of  the  storm.  Oh,  that  it  were 
passed,  ahd  that  it  were  gone;  but  it  is  not,  it  is  not!  It  would  pass 
over  the  heads  of  this  people  and  over  the  heads  of  the  world  if  only, 
as  Elder  Roberts  said,  if  only  they  would  repent  ;  but  if  they  will  not 
repent,  how  can  they  escape  ?  Men  in  past  ages  have  not  escaped,  who 
did  not  know  as  much  as  this  generation, — in  view  of  the  knowledge 
that  has  come  into  the  world  of  a  scientific  character,  in  view  of  the 
intelligence  which  men  have,  in  view  of  the  restoration  of  the  everlast- 
ing gospel  that  has  come  into  the  world,  and  that  has  been  proclaimed 
upon  the  housetops  by  the  thousands  of  elders  of  this  Church  from 
door  to  door,  in  the  publication  of  it,  broad  and  wide.  Knowledge  such 
as  no  other  generation  that  has  ever  lived  upon  the  earth  has  enjoyed, 
has  been  diffused ;  and  this  is  their  condemnation,  that  light  has  come 
into  the  world.  I  fear  for  the  world  because  I  say  to  you  that  no 
generation  of  men  who  have  lived  stand  under  greater  condemnation 
before  God  Almighty  than  this  generation,  and  except  they  shall  re- 
pent, serious  distresses  await  them.  The  storm  in  its  fury  shall  rage; 
and  all  the  powers  of  man  cannot  avert  it.  Only  one  thing  can  save 
them :  their  humiliation,  their  repentance  will  save  them  and  nothing 
else  can.  Therefore  we  stand  in  peril,  many  of  us !  for  do  you  think 
that  the  Lord  who  has  given  us  greater  light  and  greater  knowledge 
than  the  world,  will  pass  us  by  in  our  sins  and  our  transgressions?  I 
say  to  you  that  if  we  do  not  live  better  than  the  world,  if  our  stand- 
ard of  morality  is  not  in  excess  of  theirs,  if  we  do  not  observe  the  law 
and  maintain  it  better  than  any  other  people,  we  ought  to  be  ashamed 
of  ourselves,  and  we  shall  stand  under  great  condemnation  before  the 
Lord,  because  we  know  more  than  anybody  else.  The  light  and 
knowledge  that  the  Lord  has  given  to  us  place  us  in  a  very  peculiar 
position,  and  if  we  are  not  careful  the  judgment  of  the  Lord  shall  begin 
at  the  house  of  the  Lord. 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


HOW  TO  PREPARE  TO  ESCAPE  THE  DAY  OF  CALAMITY 

Oh  may  we  put  ourselves  in  order,  put  ourselves  in  perfect  har- 
mony with  the  instructions  of  this  conference,  that  we  may  escape,  for 
I  bear  witness  to  you  that  those  who  do  so,  they  shall  escape  in  the 
day  of  calamity  and  confusion,  as  Israel  escaped,  the  lintels  of  whose 
doors  were  marked  with  the  blood  of  a  lamb.  So  it  shall  be  in  these 
last  days  with  those  who  do  serve  God  and  keep  his  commandments. 
May  the  Lord  help  us  in  the  resolve  and  the  determination  to  go  for- 
ward now  and  do  more  than  we  have  ever  done  to  resist  that  which 
is  all  around  us.  It  is  in  the  world,  it  is  seeking  an  inroad  here  and 
there  into  the  communities  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  am  not  very 
fearful  of  our  present  conditions,  but  I  tell  you  I  see  what  is  coming. 
I  know  that  it  will  require  the  steadfast  faithfulness  of  every  man 
and  woman  to  escape  the  perils  of  this  generation.  God  help  us  to 
stand  as  watchmen  upon  the  towers  of  Zion,  to  guard  well  her  gates  as 
stewards  of  the  flock,  and  to  watch  lest  the  destructive  influences  of 
the  world  shall  enter  in  among  us.  Let  us  continue  to  be  God's  pe- 
culiar people,  and  we  shall  indeed  be ;  not  only  in  time  to  come,.peculiar, 
but  distinguished,  which  may  the  Lord  grant,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

I  earnestly  desire,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  rich  inspiration 
of  our  heavenly  Father  may  continue  with  us  during  the  remaining 
portion  of  this  meeting,  as  it  has  done  during  the  first  part  of  the 
meeting,  and  during  the  sessions  that  were  held  yesterday. 

Like  Brother  John  A.  Widtsoe,  I  have  been  and  am  intensely  in- 
terested in  education.  I  should  like  to  talk  to  you  about  our  religion 
class  work,  our  seminary  work,  and  our  Church  School  system,  but 
time  will  not  permit. 

REMEMBER  THE  CHURCH   EDUCATIONAL  INSTITUTIONS 

We  have  in  Provo,  the  Brigham  Young  University.  If  I  had 
the  time  I  could  tell  you  many  good  things  about  that  splendid  institu- 
tion. I  should  like  to  have  you  keep  this  great  school  in  your  remem- 
brance. Many  of  you  have  a  good  deal  of  property.  Those  who  are 
comparatively  rich  sometimes  wonder  what  to  do  with  their  holdings. 
I  say  to  you,  if  you  would  have  your  name  reverently  remembered  by 
the  generations  of  Saints  that  are  to  come,  you  can  do  lfothing  better 
with  funds  the  Lord  has  given  to  you  than  to  make  an  endowment  of 
some  sort  to  this  splendid  Church  university. 

We  have  directors  of  other  Church  schools  here,  and  they  re- 
mind me  that  there  are  other  Church  educational  institutions.  I  sug- 
gest that  you  remember  all  of  these  when  you  are  disposing  of  and  dis- 
tributing that  which  the  Lord  has  given  you  of  worldly  goods. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


61 


Y.  M.   M.  I.  A.  LIFE  MEMBERSHIPS 

Not  only  am  I  interested  in  the  educational  work  of  the  Church, 
but,  as  one  of  the  general  superintendency  of  the  Young  Men's  Mu- 
tual Improvement  Associations,  I  am  also  intensely  interested  in  that 
great  organization.  There  has  been  established  for  young  men  no  in- 
stitution better  than  the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Associa- 
tion. Many  have  received  training  in  this  organization,  who  perhaps 
would  like  to  make  a  slight  contribution  for  its  assistance.  Some  of 
you  may  probably  not  know  that  we  have  life  memberships  in  this  or- 
ganization. I  appeal  to  you  who  have  been  blessed  by  attending  Mu- 
tual Improvement  Associations,  to  join  the  organization  as  life  mem- 
bers. The  charge  for  such  membership  is  $5.  Those  who  make  this 
contribution  give  it  to  an  endowment  fund.  The  interest  only  on  this 
endowment  will  be  expended.  This  means  that  those  who  make  this 
contribution  will  be  helping  this  splendid  organization  for  all  time  to 
come. 

OBEDIENCE  TO  LAW 

Now,  this  matter  of  obedience  to  law :  The  Lord  has  revealed 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  he,  himself,  raised  up  wise  men  who 
prepared  the  constitution  of  the  United  States.  We  believe  it  to  be  a 
divinely  inspired  document.  Will  it  endure?  Will  this  country  of 
ours  last  indefinitely? 

I  heard  a  great  historian  once  say  that  he  has  studied  ancient 
history  with  very  great  care  in  an  effort  to  determine  whether  or 
not  the  United  States  of  America,  as  a  republic,  will  endure  indefinitely. 
He  said :  "The  republics  of  the  past  have  failed.  This  republic  can 
only  endure,  if  in  it  there  is  some  element  not  to  be  found  in  the  re- 
publics of  the  past."  This  historian  (Andrew  D.  White)  explained 
further  that  a  careful  investigation  shows  that  we  have  in  this  re- 
public one  thing  only,  not  to  be  found  in  other  republics,  and  that  is 
our  great  educational  system.  If  after  being  trained  in  our,  schools, 
men  have  the  Christian  spirit,  if  there  is  in  their  hearts  some  unself- 
ishness, if  they  are  willing  to  make  sacrifices  for  the  good  of  others, 
then  this  republic  may  endure. 

REMEMBER  THE  LORI> — TAKE  COUNSEL  OF  HIS  SERVANTS 

On  this  subject  of  unselfishness,  Brother  Ballard  has  just  men- 
tioned the  matter  of  growing  beets.  He  mentioned  also  the  paying  of 
tithes  and  offerings.  What  has  your  experience  been  in  that  direction? 
My  experience  has  been  that  it  is  a  paying  proposition  to  remember 
the  Lord.  If  we  do  this  he  will  remember  us.  My  experience  also  is 
tkat  it  pays  to  listen  to  the  counsel  of  the  authorities  of  the  Church, 
to  advise  with  the  bishop.  Suggestions  though  not  given  by  Church 
authorities  in  a  very  vigorous  sort  of  fashion,  ought  to  be  obeyed.  Let 
me  give  you  a  specific  case.  I  did  not  go  to  the  President  for  ad- 
vice particularly,  but  when  we  were  together,  I  .named,  one,  two,  three, 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


four,  five  reasons  why  I  ought  to  do  a  particular;  thing.  "Why,"  said 
President  Grant,  "Richard,  I  think  this  is  the  very  time  not  to  take 
the  course  you  name." 

This  was  a  financial!  matter.  He  did  not  use  a  club.  He  did  not 
talk  loud.  There  was  no  compulsion  about  it,  but  it  was  advice  to 
me.  I  took  it  and  for  so  doing  I  have  received  a  rather  rich  financial 
reward. 

I  defy  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  find  anywhere,  even  in  literature, 
a  man  more  interested  in  a  people  than  is  President  Heber  J.  Grant  in 
your  own  good  selves.  Find,  if  you  can,  anyone,  any  man  anywhere, 
who  is  more  unselfish!  His  first  interest,  his  last  interest,  his  con- 
tinual interest  is  in  the  welfare  of  the  people  of  the  Church. 

CONDITION  OF  THE  WORLD  SINCE  THE  GOSPEL  WAS  RESTORED 

Now,  to  come  back  to  our  country — the  United  States.  The  con- 
stitution of  this  republic  was  prepared  by  men  inspired  of  our  heavenly 
Father.  Its  operations  were  only  well  begun  when  God  the  Father 
and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  came  to  the  earth  and  restored  this  great 
gospel  that  is  so  dear  to  all  of  us. 

What  has  been  the  condition  of  the  world  since  that  time,  since 
this  gospel  was  restored  ?  Do  you  realize  that  in  the  methods  of  trans- 
portation there  had  been  no  progress  in  all  the  history  of  the  ages  up 
to  the  time  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  or- 
ganized? There  had  been  no  transportation  faster  than  a  man  could 
run  or  a  horse  could  travel.  And  what  have  we  today  ?  The  loco- 
motive, the  ocean  liner,  the  bicycle,  the  electric  car,  the  automobile,  the 
flying  machine.  These  all  are  indications  of  the  great  progress  that 
has  come  since  this  gospel  was  established. 

Many  of  you  can  remember  when,  every  once  in  a  while,  the 
world  was  thrown  into  commotion  by  some  terrible  disease  epidemic. 
There  were  epidemics  of  cholera,  yellow  fever,  typhoid  fever,  diphtheria. 
The  whole  human  family  was  powerless  in  the  presence  of  these  epi- 
demics. Micro-organisms  had  been  discovered  a  hundred  years  before, 
but  not  until  about  1880  did  Louis  Pasteur  discover  the  relation  that 
exists  between  these  organisms,  these  germs,  or  these  bacteria  and  dis- 
ease. During  this  hundred  years  there  had  been  no  progress  what- 
ever in  the  health  of  the  people.  The  death  rate  everywhere  was  in 
the  neighborhood  of  forty  per  thousand.  What  a  transformation  !  To- 
day there  are  few  cities  in  the  world  .in  which  the  death  rate  is  as 
high  as  twenty.  Between  1876  and  1880,  in  one  city,  (Munich),  689 
out  of  every  thousand  babies  under  the  age  of  one  year  were  taken 
by  death.  That  shows  the  condition  of  the  world  before  1880.  Dirt, 
ugliness  and  disease  were  found  everywhere.  Since  then  cleanliness, 
beauty  and  health  have  taken  their  places.  Science  has  discovered 
that  the  mosquito  carries  yellow  fever  from  one  individual  to  another. 
Science  by  destroying  the  mosquitoes  in  Panama  made  possible  the 
construction  of  the  Panama  Canal.    Some  of  you  may  not  know  that 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


63 


with  the  mosquitoes  killed,  with  the  ravages  of  yellow  fever  in  that 
particular  neighborhood  ended,  the  United  tStates  constructed  the 
Panama  Canal  for  less  money  than  the  French  government  expended 
investigating  the  question. 

PATRIOTISM  AND  RIGHTEOUS  LIVING  WILL  CAUSE  OUR  COUNTRY 

TO  ENDURE 

And  so,  too,  has  there  been  great  progress  in  education.  People 
are  wiser,  they  know  more,  they  have  books  and  they  are  studious. 
This  republic  will  endure  indefinitely  only  if  the  individual  citizens 
in  it  appreciate  the  liberty  that  has  been  left  to  us  as  a  legacy  by  our 
fathers.  The  Bar  Association,  I  have  been  advised,  has  suggested  that 
throughout  the  whole  country  organizations  be  effected  for  the  purpose 
of  teaching  the  people  patriotism.  Others  may  desert  the  constitution 
of  this  country,  but  the  Latter-day  Saints  will  do  it  never.  This  great 
government  will  endure  indefinitely  if  we,  its  citizens,  give  a  proper 
value  to  that  liberty  which  in  those  early  days  was  purchased  with  the 
splendid  blood  of  our  glorious  fathers. 

THE  Y.  M.  M.  I.  A.  AS  HELPS  TO  GOOD  CITIZENSHIP  AND  RIGHT'  LIVING 

An  effort  is  being  put  forth  this  year  by  the  Mutual  Improve- 
ment Associations  to  place  the  boy  scout  training  within  the  reach  of 
every  boy  of  scout  age  in  the  Church.  Imagine,  if  you  can,  what  it 
means  for  every  boy  to  be  trained  to  be  clean,  to  be  obedient,  to  be 
gentle,  to  be  frugal,  to  be  honest,  to  be  courteous,  trustworthy,  loyal, 
helpful,  friendly,  brave,  clean,  kind  and  reverent.  Imagine  what  it 
means  for  all  our  boys  to  be  taught  these  great  lessons:  "On  my  honor, 
I  will  do  my  best  to  do  my  duty  both  to  God  and  to  my  country,  to 
help  other  people  at  all  times,  to  keep  myself  physically  strong,  mentally 
awake,  and  morally  straight."  I  urge  you,  presidents  of  stakes,  coun- 
selors to  presidents,  bishops,  bishops  counselors  and  other  officials 
everywhere,  to  give  to  this  great  work  your  most  loyal  support. 

We  have  another  equally  important  class  in  the  Mutuals — the 
senior  boys  or  young  men  between  the  ages  of  seventeen  and  twenty- 
three.  We  are  determined  as  the  General  Superintendency  and  Gen- 
eral Board  to  so  touch  the  lives  of  these  young  people  as  to  thrill  them 
with  ambition.  It  does  not  take  much  in  the  life  of  a  boy  during  these 
years  to  transform  his  whole  career.  We  are  not  doing  enough  as 
officials  if  we  only  come  to  the  meeting  at  the  meeting  hour,  and  there 
sing  and  preach  and  pray  with  those  who  happen  to'  be  present.  It 
is  my  duty,  and  yours,  as  officials,  to  go  out  and  search  for  the  lost 
sheep,  to  go  out  in  the  woods,  to  go  out  on  the  hill  sides,  to  go  out 
in  the  timber  in  a  faithful,  fruitful  search  for  those  who  are  unfortu- 
nate. It  is  the  widow's  son,  it  is  the  boy  who  is  fatherless,  it  is  the 
boy  who  is  brought  up  in  a  broken  home,  it  is  the  boy  who  is  not 
having  a  fair  chance,  after  whom  we  ought  to  search,  it  is  he  that 
we  must  find.  These  are  they  who  need  our  special  attention.  These 
are  the  boys  who  need  the  help  if  they  are  to  be  saved.    And  so,  I  ap- 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


peal  to  you,  in  the  name  of  our  great  Country,  and  in  the  name  of 
our  glorious  Church,  to  see  to  it  that  all  boys  between  the  ages  of 
twelve  and  seventeen  are  given  an  opportunity  of  taking  the  work  we 
offer  in  scouting,  and  that  those  between  the  ages  of  seventeen  and 
twenty-three  be  hunted  up  and  given  the  clean  manly  training  of- 
fered for  them  by  our  Mutual  Improvement  organizations.  These 
brought  together  and  thus  trained  we  shall  have  a  generation  of  citi- 
zens who  will  have  such  love  for  American  liberty,  our  country,  and 
our  constitution  that  the  best  in  their  lives  will  be  given  to  support- 
ing our  inspired  institutions,  to  obeying  unselfishly  the  law  of  the  land 
and  to  making  our  nation  live  on  indefinitely. 

THE  SLOGAN  OF  THE  (Jtf.  I.  A. 

The  Lord  bless  you.  I  have  enjoyed  going  out  into  the  stakes  of 
Zion  where  I  have  been  associated  with  you  splendid,  clean,  glorious 
Church  workers.  We  have  been  teaching  the  Word  of  Wisdom  these 
many  years.  We  come  forward  now  with  a  new  or  another  appeal, 
a  slogan.  We  want  all  the  people,  in  their  hearts,  in  their  lives  and 
in  their  actions,  to  be  pure. 

We  may  think  sometimes  the  Lord  has  deserted  us,  but  really, 
if  we  think  of  our  own  shortcomings,  if  we  think  of  how  many  people 
there  are  who  drink  their  tea,  how  many  people  there  are  who  drink 
their  coffee,  how  many  there  are  who  do  not  remember  the  Lord  in 
secret  and  in  family  prayers,  who  do  not  pay  their  tithes  and  their 
offerings,  ought  we  then  not  to  marvel  why  it  is  we  are  so  richly 
blessed.  It  is  our  purpose  to  put  forth  this  year  our  best  effort  to 
make  our  people  pure,  in  their  hearts,  in  their  actions  and  in  their  lives 
generally,  therefore  nearly  one  hundred  thousand  strong,  the  Young 
Men's  and  Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  organizations  are 
going  forth  this  year  proclaiming  the  slogan :  "We  stand  for  a  pure 
life  through  clean  thought  and  action."  I  wonder  if  you  believe  in 
this  doctrine?  I  will  repeat  it  and  then  give  you  an  opportunity  to 
say  it  with  me  for  the  whole  Church.  In  this  Church  is  to  be  found 
everything  that  makes  people  better,  stronger,  happier;  better  citizens, 
better  supporters  of  our  country,  its  laws  and  its  constitution.  I  say 
again,  others  may  desert  it  but  the  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  will  defend  it  forever. 

I  will  give  the  new  slogan  and  I  ask  you  to  repeat  it:  "We  stand 
for  a  pure  life  through  clean  thought  and  action." 

(The  Slogan  was  repeated  by  the  congregation.) 

The  Lord  bless  you.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Now  let  us  rejoice." 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Heber  Q.  Hale,  president 
of  the  Boise  stake  of  Zion. 

The  conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


65 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

The  meeting  opened  at  2  p.  m.,  President  Heber  J.  Grant  pre- 
siding. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "O  My  Father." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  William  T.  Jack,  presi- 
dent of  the  Cassia  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Guide  us,  O  Thou  great 
Jehovah." 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

If  I  may  be  endowed  with  sufficient  breadth  of  thought  and  some 
liberty  of  expression,  I  should  like  to  speak  for  a  few  moments  upon 
the  subject  of  broad-mindedness.  I  am  led  to  propose  this  subject 
for  brief  conisderation,  not  because  I  think  it  will  be  particularly  at- 
tractive, but  because  my  observation  in  the  Church  and  out  of  it  con- 
vinces me  that  something  in  the  nature  of  definition  and  interpre- 
tation of  that  subject  might  be  of  advantage,  particularly  to  a  large 
body  of  young  people  within  the  Church. 

TWO  DIFFERENT  VIEWS 

There  are  many,  both  within  the  Church  and  without  it  who 
take  the  position  that  we  are  so  circumscribed  by  tradition,  practice, 
customs,  and  our  reverence  for  that  which  has  been  established,  that 
we  do  not  lay  hold  of  new  thought,  new  ideas,  and  new  practices,  to 
carry  forward  this  great  work.  There  are  also  those  within  the  Church 
who  take  a  position  almost  directly  converse,  who  say  that  we  have 
gone  so  far  beyond  the  initial  understandings,  the  revelations,  prac- 
tices and  traditions,  that  we  are  in  grave  danger  of  straying  away  from 
the  genius  of  the  work. 

To  my  thinking,  both  of  these,  whose  views  I  have  attempted  to 
give,  fail  in  an  understanding  and  a  conception  of  the  work,  com- 
patible with  its  genius  and  its  great  ideals.  I  am  not  sympathetic  with 
those  who  take  some  degree  of  pride  in  saying  that  they  are  not 
orthodox,  while  they  believe  in  the  main  the  principles  of  the  gospel, 
they  are  liberal  in  their  views,  and  feel  at  liberty  to  go  beyond  the  con- 
ceptions and  regulations  which  the  leaders  of  the  Church  have  held 
and  sustained  from  its  beginning  until  the  present  time.  I  am  ortho- 
dox ;  I  am  proud  to  be  orthodox.  I  cannot  conceive  how  one  who  is 
impregnated  with  the  great  mission  of  this  work  in  the  earth,  and 
who  is  convinced  of  its  truth  and  divinity,  can  be  other  than  orthodox; 
and  when  I  say  I  am  orthodox,  I  do  not,  for  one  moment,  contemplate 
a  situation  in  which  I  am  not  receptive  to  all  good  new  thought,  to  the 
development  of  true  science,  and  to  the  extension  of  the  application  of 
the  principles  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  to  all  circum- 
stances which  may  arise  in  life. 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


DIFFERENCE  BETWEEN  BROAD-MINDEDNESS  AND  HERESY 

In  my  judgment,  there  is  a  vast  difference  between  broad-mind- 
edness and  heresy,  and  I  sometimes  think  that  often  well-disposed 
members  of  the  Church  do  no  inconsiderable  harm,  among  the  young 
people  of  the  Church,  in  particular,  when  they  advocate  a  departure 
from  some  of  the  established  rules,  regulations  and  traditions  of  the 
Church,  upon  the  principle  of  liberality  of  view  and  broad-minded- 
ness. It  is  one  thing  to  be  compassionate  and  sympathetic  with  him 
who  sins ;  it  is  another  thing  to  compromise  with  or  to  sin,  in  the  least 
degree,  or  tolerate  sin.  A  marked  distinction  should  always  be  drawn 
between  our  ideals  and  the  weak  human  beings  who  try  to  live  them. 

THE  GOSPEL  EMBRACES  ALL  TRUTH 

For  my  part,  I  construe  the  great  principles  of  the  gospel  as 
being  sufficiently  broad  and  comprehensive  to  embrace  all  truth,  and 
I  circumscribe  and  limit  their  definition  and  operation,  only  by  the 
broadmindedness  of  truth  itself.  Whatever  is  true,  whatever  is  virtu- 
ous, whatever  is  of  good  report,  lovely  or  praiseworthy,  we  seek  after 
these  things. 

HOW   TO   PRESERVE  OUR  STANDARDS  AND  IDEALS 

All  people  are  subject  to  their  environment.  We  react  to  the  per- 
sons and  to  the  influences  which  surround  us.  It  is  human  so  to  do. 
We  cannot  live  in  the  world  without,  to  some  extent,  partaking  of  the 
things  of  the  world.  Every  plant,  every  form  of  animal  life  are  like- 
wise subjected  to  the  influence  of  environment;  they  will  respond  to- 
light  and  darkness,  warmth  and  cold,  foulness  and  wholesomeness. 
We  cannot  associate  with  men  and  women  all  through  the  country, 
who  have  different  ideals  and  different  standards,  without,  in  some  de- 
gree, being  influenced  by  such  contacts.  There  is  no  possibility  of  a 
territorial  isolation  of  the  people  of  the  Church.  We  mingle  with 
strangers,  we  live  in  the  same  communities  with  those  who  enter- 
tain vastly  different  views  from  the  ones  we  entertain.  The  only  pos- 
sibility I  see,  is  to  maintain  a  great  moral  and  religious  isolation,  or 
segregation,  if  you  will,  in  order  to  preserve  our  own  standards,  our 
own  ideals,  and  in  order  to  safeguard  our  young  people  from  the  hazard 
that  must  ever  be  present  with  them  as  they  associate  and  mix  with 
the  people  of  the  world.  We  welcome  the  stranger  within  our  gates. 
We  recognize  the  fact  that  we  will  do  business  with  him,  but  we  do 
not  welcome  the  influence  of  the  world  to  dilute  and  weaken  the  great 
exalted  principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

1  look  upon  it  as  one  of  the  greatest  responsibilities  we  have,  to 
maintain  in  their  purity  and  in  their  absolute  integrity,  these  principles 
of  truth  which  have  been  committed  to  us  for  dissemination  through- 
out all  the  world.  Any  solution  into  which  is  poured  another  solution 
loses  some  of  its  virtue,  its  strength  and  potency.    You  cannot  pour 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS  67 

the  influences  of  the  world  into  this  great  solution  of  the  gospel  with- 
out diluting  it.  It  is  our  obligation  to  keep  it  undefiled,  undiluted, 
and  to  maintain  it  in  its  present  strength  and  purity  and  efficacy. 
Therefore,  I  feel  fully  justified  in  saying  to  those  thoughtful,  pro- 
gressive, admirable  people  within  the  Church  who  are  not  quite  con- 
tent with  present  interpretations  and  procedure,  be  broadminded,  but 
remember  that  the  principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  demand  ab- 
solute and  unvarying  loyalty,  adherence,  and  observance. 

BLESSINGS  COME  AS   WE  SUBJECT  OURSELVES  TO  THE  CONDITIONS 
UPON  WHICH  THEY  ARE  PREDICATED 

The  very  first  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants — that  great 
section  which  is  regarded  as  the  preface  to  that  work,  and  which  I 
have  often  characterized  as  the  charter  of  our  religion,  sets  forth  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  called  in  order  that  faith  might  be  increased  among 
men,  and,  mark  you  this,  which  I  regard  as  fundamental,  in  order 
''that  mine  everlasting  covenant  might  be  established."  I  construe  the 
new  and  everlasting  covenant  as  I  would  construe,  in  large  measure, 
a  legal  contract.  I  believe  that  our  Father  intended  that  he  would 
obligate  himself  as  well  as  obligate  the  beneficiaries  of  that  contract  to 
the  performance  of  it.  I  believe  that  no  one  is  entitled  to  the  full 
measure  of  its  blessings  unless  he  subjects  himself  to  all  the  con- 
ditions upon  which  those  blessings  are  predicated,  and  I  construe 
that  covenant  to  be  broad  enough  to  embrace  every  principle  of  the 
gospel,  so  that  under  that  construction,  no  man  or  woman  can  be  so 
broadminded  as  to  fail  to  observe,  in  any  part,  any  of  the  principles 
of  the  gospel,  and  claim  the  full  reward  promised  to  those  who  keep 
them  all. 

BROADMINDEDNESS  OFTEN   CONFUSED  WITH  LICENSE 

Broadmindedness  and  liberality  of  thought  and  view  are  often 
confused  with  licentiousness  and  with  liberty  to  do  the  things  which 
are  not  in  consonance  with  the  principles  and  regulations  of  the 
Church.  I  am  thoroughly  satisfied  that  if  our  boys  and  girls  attend- 
ing colleges  and  universities  could  be  shown  the  gospel  in  all  its 
great  breadth  of  view ;  if  they  could  be  made  to  understand  that  it 
will  subserve  their  best  interests  in  life,  and  that  it  embraces  all  that 
is  good  and  true,  they  would  not  think  that  it  is  narrow,  and  they 
would  not  think  that  those  who  stand  up  to  proclaim  it  and  who 
contend  for  an  observance  of  its  principles,  are  contracted  in  their 
views  and  not  willing  to  accept  new  truth. 

NEED  OF  ADEQUATE  INTERPRETATION  OF  THE  GOSPEL 

We  need  an  interpretation  of  the  gospel.  We  need  an  interpre- 
tation that  appeals,  and  we  do  not  need  to  contravene,  in  any  manner 
any  of  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  to  make  an  appealing  interpreta- 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


tion.  I  plead  for  that  interpretation  to  come  through  the  auxiliaries 
cf  the  Church,  as  well  as  from  the  priesthood  of  the  Church.  I  think 
it  is  the  highest  degree  of  misfortune  when  young  folks,  kindly  dis- 
posed toward  the  gospel  and  the  Church,  are  not  given  adequate  op- 
portunity to  understand  it  and  to  appreciate  its  great,  beautiful  truths. 

We  have  all  been  inspired  by  the  testimonies  which  have  been 
given  during  this  conference.  I  have  been  thrilled  as  I  have  heard 
men  stand  in  this  pulpit  and  declare  that  they  know  that  God  lives  and 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  his  prophet.  As  I  have  heard  their  voices 
ringing  and  reverberating  through  this  building,  I  have  shaken  and 
trembled  with  a  sense  of  obligation,  and  with  a  great  feeling  of  joy — 
an  obligation  in  knowing  that  all  my  brethren  and  sisters  must  have 
the  opportunity  of  understanding  the  gospel  and  coming  to  a  knowl- 
edge of  its  truth  and  divinity  in  the  same  form  and  in  the  same  fervor 
with  which  our  brethren  have  expounded  it  and  borne  their  testimonies  ; 
and  a  great  feeling  of  joy  that  that  same  testimony  rests  with  me.  I 
appeal  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  you  who  manifest  your  great 
interest  in  the  work  of  God,  by  coming  here  to  the  general  conferences 
of  the  Church ;  I  appeal  to  you,  not  for  your  own  good  particularly,  but 
for  the  good  of  the  thousands  and  thousands  who  are  not  here,  who 
cannot  be  thrilled  and  inspired  by  these  glorious  testimonies,  to  carry 
back  the  message  of  this  great  gospel  to  them,  to  make  it  appeal  to 
them,  to  make  them  know  that  there  is  nothing  narrow  or  constricted 
in  it  and  that  there  is  nothing  in  the  way  of  their  going  forward  with 
the  utmost  progression  in  the  development  of  all  truth,  and  in  the 
understanding  and  comprehension  of  the  great  principles  of  truth 
which  God  intends  should  be  revealed  for  the  guidance  and  direction 
of  all  the  human  family. 

GOD  GIVE  US  VISION"  AND  UNDERSTANDING 

God  bless  the  young  people.  God  give  them  vision  and  un- 
derstanding to  see  the  great  truth  and  beauty  of  this  gospel,  and  God 
bless  the  older  ones  that  they  may  be  sympathetic,  compassionate, 
kind,  tolerant,  merciful  and  loving,  that  these  young  people  may  not 
perish  without  the  faith.    I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

I  think  it  well  for  us  at  times  to  look  at  ourselves  and  take  stock 
to  determine  what  we  are,  and  this  both  as  individuals  and  as  an  or- 
ganization. We  may  need  a  mirror  to  show  just  how  we  look  as  in- 
dividuals, and  I  pray  you  if  you  use  one,  be  sure  that  it  is  a  right  mirror, 
unwarped,  and  that  your  eyes  be  clear,  that  we  may  see  ourselves  as 
we  are.  And  it  is  well  to  look  at  the  Church,  not  that  we  need  sep- 
arate ourselves  from  it  for  the  occasion,  but  to  look  at  it  impartially 
and  get  its  proper  perspective  in  relation  to  other  organizations. 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  T  ALU  AGE 


A  PANORAMIC  VIEW  OF  SOME  ESSENTIAL  POINTS  IN  CHURCH  HISTORY 

If  it  were  possible  to  show  by  means  of  panorama  or  the  mov- 
ing picture,  the  essential  points  connected  with  the  history  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  going  back  no  farther  than  the  apostolic  dis- 
pensation of  old,  we  would  see  first  a  scene  of  wondrous  activity  and 
sacrifice.  The  apostles,  who  had  been  ordained  under  the  hands  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and  those  who  had  been  called  into  the  council  of  the 
apostles  afterward,  and  the  seventies  who  had  been  marshaled  for  their 
work,  and  the  bishops  and  the  elders  and  the  priests,  teachers  and  dea- 
cons— these  we  see  at  work,  going  amongst  the  people  and  spreading 
the  gospel,  spreading  it  so  thoroughly  that  Paul  was  able  to  say  in 
his  day  that  practically  every  soul  had  heard  it,  by  which  I  under- 
stand that  he  meant  that  every  soul  had  had  a  chance  to  hear  of  it,  to 
learn  something  about  it.  As  the  scene  changes  we  see  there  many 
others  who  followed  in  the  footsteps  of  the  apostles,  so  far  as  their 
energy  and  devotion  and  authority  to  labor  was  concerned.  Then  we 
see  confusion  coming  into  the  Church,  partly  because  of  oppression 
and  almost  indescribable  persecution  from  without,  partly  because  of 
the  threatening  disruption  from  within. 

THE  GREAT  APOSTASY 

There  was  an  apostasy,  and  a  great  one,  not  the  first  one  by  any 
means  in  the  history  of  mankind,  but  a  great  falling  away,  an  apostasy 
of  individuals  from  the  Church  in  countless  numbers,  and  then  the 
apostasy  of  the  so-called  church  itself,  turning  away  from  the  ways  that 
had  been  laid  down  as  the  government  of  the  church,  corrupting  the 
ordinances  established  by  divine  authority,  pandering  to  the  so-called 
philosophy  of  the  day,  introducing  the  elements  of  paganism  and 
heathenism  to  make  their  worship  more  spectacular  and  more  attractive, 
until  we  see  as  we  look  at  the  changing  scene,  that  there  is  only  the 
outward  form  of  godliness  and  not  one  flash  to  tell  us  of  the  power 
thereof. 

THE   PERIOD   OF   SPIRITUAL  DARKNESS 

Then  as  tlie  panorama  moves,  comes  the  period  of  darkness, 
spiritual  and  mental.  For,  mark  you,  the  mind  is  an  attribute  of  the 
spirit;  and  as  spiritual  powers  dwindled,  mentality  became  deficient 
and  the  dark  ages  loomed.  The  sombre  cloud  failed  to  arouse  faith 
and  trust,  but  deepened  the  gloom  of  unbelief.  We  see  people  strug- 
gling in  the  midst  of  darkness  trying  to  get  out  of  the  jungle.  Men 
were  sent  unto  them  to  help,  men  of  God,  seeking  to  lead  them  back 
into  the  light,  to  some  extent,  but  they  had  a  hard  time.  The  Church 
had  become  apostate  and  tyrannical.  It  had  undertaken  to  rule  by 
autocratic  methods.  It  claimed  the  right  to  tell  men  what  to  do  and  to 
force  them  to  do  it  on  penalty  of  loss  of  life  or  limb,  and  the  con- 
fiscation of  their  goods.    It  undertook  to  dictate  unto  nations,  unto 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


kings,  what  they  should  do,  and  professed  to  absolve  subjects  from  all 
allegiance  to  their  rulers  if  the  rulers  failed  to  obey  the  behest  of  the 
church  so-called. 

THE  LIGHT  OF  GOD  IN  THE  RESTORATION 

The  centuries  passed  and  by  and  by  a  light  appeared ;  a  glorious  il- 
lumination broke  forth ;  and  the  word  of  God  was  heard  again,  for 
God  the  Eternal  Father — I  speak  it  without  reservation  or  modifica- 
tion—that Being  after  whom  we  have  been  formed  in  physical,  mental 
and  spiritual  image,  did  appear  upon  the  earth  unto  the  lad  Joseph 
Smith.  And  with  the  Eternal  Father  stood  the  only  Son  whom  he 
had  begotten  in  the  flesh,  Jesus  the  Christ,  who  affirmed  that  the 
authority  and  power  to  speak  and  to  act  in  the  name  of  God  was  not 
at  that  time  upon  the  earth.  Then  followed  the  promise  that  it  should 
be  restored  and  in  time,  even  as  the  prophets  of  old  had  foreseen,  angels 
came  to  earth  ministering  unto  those  who  had  been  chosen,  and  be- 
stowing upon  them  by  the  same  outward  ordinance  as  was  observed 
of  old,  by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  the  power  and  the  authority  not 
only  to  speak  but  to  act  in  the  name  of  the  living  God,  according  to 
the  order  set  forth. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  has  not  sprung 
from  any  "mother  church."  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  is  no  sect;  it  owes  no  allegiance  to  any  other  religious  so- 
ciety, call  it  by  the  name  pf  church  or  what  you  will,  on  the  face  of 
the  earth.  It  does  not  claim  to  possess  the  Holy  Priesthood  by  direct 
and  uninterrupted  descent  from  Peter  of  old,  but  it  does  claim  that 
Peter,  accompanied  by  his  associates  James  and  John,  the  three  who 
constituted  the  presidency  in  the  organization  of  the  apostolate  of  old, 
did  come  by  instruction  of  the  Lord  and  did  confer  upon  men  here 
upon  the  earth  the  authority  they  possessed  and  which  they  exercised 
in  the  flesh  before  their  martyrdom.  We  speak  that  plainly.  I  know 
it  shocks  the  ears  of  some  who  may  not  have  prepared  themselves  to 
receive  it ;  and  yet,  wherein  is  the  inconsistency  ?  We  proclaim  the 
fact  and  also  proclaim  that  the  apostasy  was  a  reality ;  and  others 
admit  it,  theologians,  scholarly  men,  and  even  churches.  Though  you 
have  heard  it  before,  I  wish  to  draw  your  attention  to  that  solemn 
declaration  by  the  chief  of  the  Protestant  churches,  the  Church  of 
England,  made  soon  after  the  time  of  its  creation — for  it  was  created 
by  act  of  Parliament.  But  there  were  wise  men  and  good  men  num- 
bered in  the  organization,  and  that  church  declared,  about  the  mid- 
dle of  the  sixteenth  century,  in  its  homily  on  the  peril  of  idolatry,  as 
follows : 

"Laity  and  clergy,  learned  and  unlearned,  all  ages,  sects,  and  degrees 
of  men,  women,  and  children  of  whole  Christendom — an  horrible  and  most 
dreadful  thing  to  think — have  been  at  once  drowned  in  abominable  idolatry; 
of  all  other  vices  most  detested  of  God,  and  most  damnable  to  man;  and 
that  by  the  space  of  eight  hundred  years  and  more." 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


71 


THE    CHURCH    OF   GOD   ESTABLISHED  ANEW 

That,  I  take  it,  is  good  testimony  as  to  the  actuality  of  the  apos- 
tasy. We  proclaim  the  restoration  which  the  prophets  of  old  said 
should  follow  the  apostasy.  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been 
established  upon  the  earth  anew,  through  the  instrumentality  of  Joseph 
Smith  the  Prophet  and  his  immediate  associates  in  the  ministry.  It  is 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  brought  to  earth  again,  established  anew  as 
had  been  predicted,  I  repeat ;  and  its  mission  is  the  preparation  of  the 
earth  for  the  great  consummation,  the  coming  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

In  this  restored  church  has  been  placed,  by  divine  ministration 
and  ordinance,  the  authority  of  the  Lesser  and  of  the  Greater — or  of 
the  Aaronic  and  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthoods,  with  the  several  of- 
fices thereof  and  the  several  duties,  responsibilities  and  powers  per- 
taining to  each  office  as  of  old. 

THE  NEW  AND  EVERLASTING  COVENANT 

That  it  was  and  is  something  new,  and  yet  something  old,  as  it 
is  in  fact  eternal,  was  set  forth  by  the  Lord  in  a  revelation  given  in 
April,  1830,  just  after  the  organization  of  the  Church.  There  were 
people  who  had  joined  other  churches.  Many  of  them  had  been 
and  were  devout.  They  had  been  baptized,  some  of  them  by  sprinkling 
and  some  of  them  by  pouring,  but  they  called  it  baptism,  and  some  of 
them  by  immersion ;  and  they  raised  the  question  as  to  whether  they 
could  not  become  members  of  this  Church  now  by  application  and 
profession  of  faith  alone,  affirming  that  it  was  unjust  that  they  should 
be  required  to  be  baptized  again.  In  this  claim  they  plainly  forgot 
that  the  outward  form  of  baptism  can  be  performed  by  anybody,  but 
that  baptism  as  an  ordinance  acceptable  unto  the  Lord  requires  the 
power  and  the  authority  of  the  Priesthood  which  he  has  given.  There- 
fore the  Lord  said : 

"Behold,  I  say  unto  you  that  all  old  covenants  have  I  caused  to  be 
done  away  in  this  thing;  and  this  is  a  new  and  an  .everlasting  covenant, 
even  that  which  was  from  the  beginning. 

"Wherefore,  although  a  man  should  be  baptized  an  hundred  times  it 
availeth  him  nothing,  for  you  cannot  enter  in  at  the  strait  gate)  by  the 
law  of  Moses,  neither  by  your  dead  works. 

"For  it  is  because  of  your  dead  works  that  I  have  caused  this  last 
covenant  and  this  Church  to  be  built  up  unto  me,  even  as  in  days  of  old. 

"Wherefore,  enter  ye  in  at  the  gate,  as  I  have  commanded." 

I  have  read  from  Section  22  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  Isn't 
that  in  line  with  the  declaration  our  Lord  made  while  he  talked  in  the 
flesh,  even  the  Christ,  known  as  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  who  was  ac- 
knowledged as  a  marvelous  prophet  whose  teachings  were  full  of  wis- 
dom? On  one  occasion,  amidst  circumstances  which  the  rest  of  the 
chapter  will  give  unto  you,  he  spoke  these  words  recorded  in  the 
9th  Chapter  of  Matthew,  beginning  with  the  sixteenth  verse: 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"No  man  putteth  a  piece  of  new  cloth  unto  an  old  garment,  for  that 
which  is  put  in  to  fill  it  up  taketh  from  the  garment,  and  the  rent  is  made 
worse. 

"Neither  do  men  put  new  wine  into  old  bottles ;  else  the  bottles  break,  and 
the  wine  runneth  out,  and  the  bottles  perish ;  but  they  put  new  wine  into  new 
bottles,  and  both  are  preserved." 

The  Judaism  of  that  day  was  a  travesty  on  the  law  that  God  had 
given.  Many  believed  in  part  of  what  Christ  said,  but  they  wanted  to 
tack  it  on  to  the  Judaism  of  the  day ;  they  wanted  to  make  the  word  of 
God  conform  to  their  philosophy,  or  with  their  sophistry,  or  with  their 
man-made  precepts,  and  the  Lord  warned  them:  Do  not  put  a  new 
piece  of  cloth  on  the  old  garment,  it  will  tear  it  away  and  make  a 
more  hideous  rent  than  there  was  before.  Do  not  put  that  newly 
fermenting  juice  into  old  leathern  bags,  for  that  was  the  nature  of 
the  bottles  of  that  day.  You  know  how  quickly  old  leather  breaks. 
Don't  put  it  into  such  bottles,  for  the  fermentation  will  burst  the  bot- 
tles and  the  good  wine  will  be  lost  and  the  bottles  will  be  entirely 
ruined.  There  was  to  be  no  compromise  with  the  semi-pagan  doctrines 
of  the  day,  nor  was  there  to  be  any  compromise  between  the  principles  of 
the  gospel  of  Christ  and  the  teachings  of  men  not  conforming  there- 
with, the  doctrines  of  men  that  have  been  evolved  in  the  minds  of 
men  without  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Spirit — no  compromise ! 

THIS  CHURCH  LED  BY  REVELATION  AND  INSPIRATION  FROM  HEAVEN 

We  are  tolerant,  tolerant  in  the  extreme.  We  grant  unto  every 
man  the  right  to  worship  after  his  own  conscience,  even  as  we  claim  it ; 
but  we  do  not  compromise  by  the  acceptance  of  the  views  of  men  in 
an  attempt  to  mingle  them  with  the  doctrine  of  Christ,  and  call  it  all 
the  word  of  God.  The  Lord  has  spoken  and  is  speaking.  I  bear 
you  solemn  testimony  that  ever  since  the  reestablishment  of  the  Church 
in  1830,  this  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  led  by  inspiration  and 
revelation  from  the  heavens.  This  is  the  day  in  which  you  witness 
such.  The  Lord  is  not  leaving  his  Church  to  itself.  He  is  speaking 
in  the  ways  best  known  to  him,  and  inspiring  and  leading  those  whom 
you  sustain  as  your  leaders.  Follow  them  and  be  safe.  May  the  Lord 
be  with  us  in  carrying  out  the  determination  for  a  better  life  which 
we  have  formed  in  this  conference,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

peter's  advice  to  the  saints  of  old 

"But  ye  are  a  chosen  generation,  a  royal  priesthood,  an  holy  nation,  a 
peculiar  people;  that  ye  should  shew  forth  the  praises  of  him  who  hath 
called  you  out  of  darkness  into  his  marvelous  light: 

"Which  in  time  past  were  not  a  people,  but  are  .now  the  people  of  God: 
which  had  not  obtained  mercy,  but  now  have  obtained  mercy. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


73 


"Dearly  beloved,  I  beseech  you  as  strangers  and  pilgrims,  abstain  from 
fleshly  lusts,  which  war  against  the  soul ; 

"Having  your  conversation  honest  among  the  Gentiles:  that,  whereas 
they  speak  against  you  as  evildoers,  they  may  by  our  good  works,  which 
they  shall  behold,  glorify  God  in  the  day  of  visitation. 

"Submit  yourselves  to  every  ordinance  of  man  for  the  Lord's  sake: 
whether  it  be  to  the  king,  as  supreme; 

"Or  unto  governors,  as  unto  them*  that  are  sent  by  him  for  the.  punish- 
ment of  evildoers,  and  for  the  praise  of  them  that  do  well. 

"For  so  is  the  will  of  God,  that  with  well  doing  ye  mayi  put  to  silence 
the  ignorance  of  foolish  men; 

"As  free,  and  not  using  your  liberty  for  a  cloke  of  maliciousness,  but 
as  the  servants  of  God. 

"Honor  all  men.    Love  the  brotherhood.    Fear  God.    Honor  the  king." 

APPLICABLE  TO  SAINTS  OF  LATTER  DAYS 

This  advice  which  was  given  by  Peter  to  the  saints  of  a  former 
dispensation  is  just  as  applicable  in  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of 
times.  It  is  true  that  we  have  been  called  out  of  the  world  to  serve  the 
Lord,  that  we  have  received  from  him,  the  restoration  of  the  gospel 
and  the  priesthood,  and  have  become  a  royal  people.  It  behooves  us 
as  Latter-day  Saints  to  keep  his  commandments,  to  walk  uprightly, 
to  honor  the  law  not  only  of  the  land,  and  that  we  are  under  the 
necessity  of  doing,  but  also  to  honor  the  law  of  God,  and  that  also 
we  are  under  obligation  to  do.  Through  revelation  from  the  Lord  we 
have  been  informed  that  it  is  our  duty  to  serve  God,  to  keep  his  com- 
mandments, to  be  subject  to  the  powers  that  be,  until  that  time  comes 
when  he  shall  come  to  reign  whose  right  it  is  to  reign  and  shall  subdue 
all  enemies  under  his  feet. 

OUR  DUTY  TO   KEEP  THE  COMMANDMENTS 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  thing  that  I  have  in  mind  par- 
ticularly in  reading  this  passage  of  scripture  is  to  call  our  attention 
to  the  fact  that  it  is  required  of  us  as  it  was  required  of  the  former- 
day  saints  to  keep  the  commandments  God  has  given  us,  that  we  may 
not,  in  the  eyes  of  the  Gentiles,  those  who  are  not  members  of  the 
Church,  be  considered  as  people  who  are  insincere.  For  this  is  the  will 
of  God,  that  with  well-doing  we  may  put  to  silence  the  ignorance  of 
foolish  men.  Any  man  or  woman  in  this  Church  who  violates  the  com- 
mandments, though  it  may  be  one  of  the  least,  is  doing  injury  not 
merely  to  himself  or  to  herself,  but  to  the  entire  body  of  the  Church. 
We  individually  have  in  our  care  and  keeping  the  good  name  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  having  that  good 
name  in  our  keeping,  it  is  required  of  us  that  we  walk  circumspectly, 
that  we  be  sincere  in  our  conversation,  in  our  deportment,  in  all  that 
we  do.  A  man  may  say  that,  if  he  violates  one  of  these  command- 
ments which  have  been  given  to  the  Church,  he  is  injuring  only 
himself,  but  that  is  not  the  case,  for  he  is  doing  an  injury  to  the  entire 
body  of  the  people,  because  the  world  will  judge  the  Church  by  the 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


acts  of  the  members.  I  have  no  right  to  do  wrong,  and  you  have 
no  right  to  do  wrong,  although  we  have  our  agency  and  the  priv- 
ilege of  doing  right  or  wrong  as  we  may  choose  in  and  of  our- 
selves ;  but  we,  as  members  of  the  Church,  are  under  covenant  and 
under  commandment  of  the  Lord  to  keep  his  law ;  to  observe  his  words. 
It  is  stated  in  one  of  the  revelations  that  we  are  to  "live  by  every  word 
that  proceedeth  forth  from  the  mouth  of  God."  Moreover,  in  another 
of  the  revelations,  the  Lord  has  said :  "If  thou  lovest  me  thou  shalt 
serve  me  and  keep  all  my  commandments."  I  commend  to  you  all 
that  has  been  said,  but  particularly  the  remarks  that  were  made  here 
this  afternoon  by  Elder  Stephen  L.  Richards,  because  they  appealed 
to  me,  and  I  feel  as  he  does  that  it  is  required  of  me  and  of  you  as 
members  of  this  Church  to  stand  by  that  which  God  has  revealed 
for  the  salvation  of  the  souls  of  men.  We  have  accepted  it ;  we  have 
come  out  of  the  world,  and  have  entered  into  the  waters  of  baptism, 
and  received  the  light  and  the  truth  of  the  everlasting  gospel. 

HOW  OTHERWISE  WE  MAY  BRING  REPROACH  UPON  THE  WHOLE  CHURCH 

Now  if  we  fail  to  live  in  harmony  with  this  light  and  pose  as 
members  of  the  Church,  claiming  a  standing  and  yet  violating  the 
commandments  God  has  given  us,  then  we  are  doing  an  injury  to  the 
entire  work  and  bringing  reproach  not  merely  upon  ourselves  but 
upon  the  entire  body  of  the  Church. 

Let  me  read  to  you  another  passage  of  scripture : 

"For  a  good  tree  bringeth  not  forth  corrupt  fruit;  neither  doth  a 
corrupt  tree  bring  forth  good  fruit. 

"For  .every  tree  is  known  by  his  own  fruit.  For  of  thorns  men  do  not 
gather  figs,  nor  of  a  bramble  bush  gather  they  grapes. 

"A  good  man  out  of  the  good  treasure  of  his  heart  bringeth  forth  that 
which  is  good;  and  an  evil  man  out  of  the  evil  treasure  of  his  heart  bringeth 
forth  that  which  is  evil;  for  of  the  abundance  of  the  heart  his  mouth 
speaketh. 

"And  why  call  ye  me,  Lord,  Lord,  and  do  not  the  things  which  I  say? 

"Whosoever  cometh  to  me,  and  heareth  my  sayings,  and  doeth  them 
I  will  shew  you  to  whom  he)  is  like: 

"He  is  like  a  man  which  built  an  house,  and  digged  deep,  and  laid  the 
foundation  on  a  rock:  and  when  the  flood  arose,  the  stream  beat  vehemently 
upon  that  house,  and  could  not  shake  it,  for  it  was  founded  upon  a  rock. 

"But  he  that  heareth,  and  doeth  not,  is  like  a  man  that  without  a 
foundation  built  an  house  upon  the  earth;  against  which  the  stream  did 
beat  vehemently,  and  immediately  it  fell;  and  the  ruin  of  that  house  was 
great." 

NO  RIGHT  TO  MEMBERSHIP,  IF  WE  JUSTIFY  VIOLATIONS  OF  THE 

LAW  OF  GOD 

What  right  have  we  to  claim  membership,  to  call  upon  the  Lord, 
and  do  not  the  things' which  he  says?  Therefore,  if  there  are  any 
among  us  who  are  violating  even  the  least  of  the  commandments  of 
God  and  feel  that  they  are  justified  in  doing  so,  they  are  under  con- 
demnation. Remember  that  it  has  been  written  in  section  one  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  that  the  secret  acts  of  men  shall  be  revealed. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


75 


The  Lord  has  sent  forth  his  gospel  unto  the  world  and  the  voice  of 
warning  is  unto  all  people  who  are  called  upon  everywhere  to  repent. 

"Wherefore,"  said  he,  "the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  the  .ends  of  the 
earth,  that  all  that  will  hear  may  hear: 

"Prepare  ye,  prepare  ye  for  that  which  is  to  come,  for  the  Lord  is 
nigh ; 

"And  the  anger  of  the  Lord  is  kindled,  and  his  sword  is  bathed  in 
heaven,  and  it  shall  fall  upon  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth; 

"And  the  arm  of  the  Lord  shall  be  revealed;  and  the  day  cometh  that 
they  who  will  not  hear  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  neither  the  voice  of  his  ser- 
vants, neither  give  heed  to  the  words  of  the  prophets  and  apostles,  shall  be 
cut  off  from  among  the  people." 

This  in  substance  was  quoted  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  by 
the  Angel  Moroni  on  the  night  of  that  visitation  ninety-nine  years  ago, 
when  he  quoted  the  22nd  and  23rd  verses  of  the  third  chapter  of  Acts, 
which  reads  similarly.  The  angel  declared  unto  Joseph  Smith  that 
the  time  was  near  at  hand  when  this  scripture  should  be  fulfilled,  in 
which  it  says  that  they  who  will  not  hear  the  voice  of  that  Prophet 
shall  be  destroyed  from  among  the  people.  Now  that  applies  to  the 
members  of  the  Church  as  well  as  to  those  who  are  in  the  world.  If 
we  as  members  will  not  hearken  unto  the  words  of  the  apostles  and 
the  prophets  and  especially  to  this  prophet  referred  to,  who  is  Christ, 
then  we  shall  take  our  places  among  the  stubble  and  shall  be  de- 
stroyed by  the  brightness  of  his  coming.  The  time  is  near  at  hand 
when  the  Lord  will  come  in  power,  and  shall  cleanse  the  earth.  We 
must  not  deceive  ourselves.  I  think  sometimes  that  we  "are  inclined 
somewhat  to  excuse  the  world  in  sin  and  to  declare  that  the  world  is 
growing  ibetter.  I  want  to  say  unto  you  that  the  Lord  will  save  the 
righteous,  but  not  the  wicked.  His  decrees  have  gone  forth,  and  his 
anger  is  kindled  against  the  wicked,  and  those  who  will  not  receive  the 
fulness  of  the  gospel.  In  Section  35  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
we  read : 

"And  there  are  none  that  doeth  good  except  those  who  are  ready 
to  receive  the  fulness  of  my  gospel,  which  I  have  sent  forth  unto  this 
generation." 

The  time  will  come  when  they  who  will  not  receive  this  fulness 
shall  be  swept  off  and  shall  not  stand,  when  he  comes  in  his  glory 
to  reign  upon  the  earth  and  take  vengeance  upon  the  ungodly.  The 
tares  are  being  bound  in  bundles  to  be  burned.  The  wheat  is  being 
garnered  into  harns,  and  the  day  of  separation  is  near  at  hand.  Even 
the  Church  shall  be  cleansed,  and  those  who  are  of  the  world,  who  are 
numbered  among  the  members  of  the  Church,  will  be  cast  out,  and 
will  find  their  place  among  those  who  are  unworthy,  where  there  shall 
be  wailing  and  gnashing  of  teeth.  Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  praise 
the  Lord,  keep  his  commandments,  walk  uprightly  and  humbly  before 
him  in  all  things,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  sacred  solo  was  sung  by  Myrtle  Orr,  "How  beautiful  upon  the 
mountains." 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Brother  McKay  has  been  chosen  to  preside  over  the  European 
Mission.  Elder  Whitney,  the  only  one  of  the  twenty-six  General. 
Authorities  who  is  absent  from  us  today,  has  undergone  a  serious  op- 
eration, arid  on  account  of  his  weak  condition  he  has  been  released  to 
return  home  as  soon  as  his  health  will  permit.  I  am  very  pleased  to 
announce  to  this  audience  that  our  last  word  from  him  is  that  he  has 
left  the  nurses'  home,  that  the  wound  has  closed  up,  and  that  he  is 
on  the  high  road  to  recovery. 

ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

It  seems  but  a  very  short  time  indeed  since  I  faced  a  similar 
audience,  on  my  return  from  a  very  recent  mission.  The  interval 
between  that  home-coming  and  the  present  time  leaving  seems  very 
brief  indeed. 

I  am  very  sorry  that  Elder  Whitney's  ill  health  necessitates  his 
release.  I  met  him  about  ten  months  ago.  He  was  doing  excellent 
work  and  feeling  apparently  well,  although  he  informed  me  then  that 
he  feared  he  would  have  to  undergo  an  operation.  I  rejoice  with 
you  in  the  latest  word  that  he  is  better,  and  I  hope  when  I  shall  greet 
him,  that  I  shall  find  him  well  on  the  road  to  his  usual  normal,  vig- 
orous health,  and  I  shall  be  pleased — I  will  assume  it  here — to  take 
the  best  wishes  of  this  magnificent  congregation  to  him. 

During  the  few  moments  that  I  shall  occupy  this  afternoon,  I  am 
going  to  ask  you  to  become  missionaries,  and  tbus  render  help  to  your 
sons  and  daughters  who  are  in  the  mission-field.  I  am  going  to 
ask  you  to  make  their  work  more  effective. 

TEXT 

"Ye  are  the  light  of  the  world.  A  city  that  is  set  on  a  hill 
cannot  be  hid.  Neither  do  men  light  a  candle,  and  put  it  under  a 
bushel,  but  on  a  candlestick;  and  it  giveth  light  unto  all  that  are  in 
the  house.  Let  your  light  so  shine  before  men,  that  they  may  see 
your  good  works,  and  glorify  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven." 

THE  CHURCH  A  CHURCH  OF  MISSIONARIES 

There  are  approximately  two  thousand  men  and  women  represent- 
ing this  Church  in  the  missionary  field.  There  should  be,  in  a  gen- 
eral way,  about  two  hundred  and  fifty  times  twb  thousand  missionaries 
in  the  organized  wards  and  branches  of  the  Church. 

.WHAT  THE  ^MISSIONARIES  ARE  PREACHING  BY  PRECEPT  AND  EXAMPLE 

These  boys  out  in  the  field  are  sweet  and  clean  and  whole- 
some, and  they  are  striving  to  live  exemplary  lives,  that  their  example 
might  accord  with  their  precept.  I  have  met  them,  as  you  know,  in 
many  missions,  and,  invariably,  they  are  fit,  noble  representatives  of 
their  parents  and  of  the  Church.    Their  skin  is  clean,  their  eyes  clear, 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKA  Y< 


77 


their  lives  wholesome,  and  men  and  women  who  are  opposed  to  our 
teaching's  are  forced  to  acknowledge  that  the  missionaries  of  the 
Church  are  noble  young  men  and  pure  women.  O,  I  grant  you  there 
are  men  and  women  in  the  world  who  are  suspicious,  many  who  are 
suspicious  of  them.  Sometimes,  too,  once  in  a  great  while — a  mis- 
sionary man  forgets  himself  and  brings  disgrace  upon  the  body  of 
the  Church,  but  the  percentage  of  such  failures,  thank  heaven,  is 
extremely  small.  The  two  thousand  missionaries  are  preaching  by 
"plain  living  and  right  thinking"  the  efficacy  of  "Mormonism." 

a  summary  of  Christ's  message  to  the  world 
In  addition  to  that,  they  are  proclaiming  a  wonderful  message. 
The  other  day  I  read,  in  a  very  carefully  written  book,  on  the  life  of 
Christ — a  summary   of  his  teachings  to  the   world.    The  eminent 
writer  said : 

"Christ  came  to  the  w,orld  and  gave  to  the  world  a  message,  which  con- 
sists, first,  in  giving  to  men  a  true  conception  of  God.  Second,  in  teaching 
men  how  to  attain  a<  larger  and  freer  life." 

Then,  basing  the  third  message,  or  the  third  lesson  upon  the  fact 
that  a  man's  actions  depend  upon  his  motives,  he  draws  this  con- 
clusion that, 

"Christ's  message  meant  the  ultimate  development  of  God's  kingdom  or 
rule  upon  earth,  which  is  destined  to  transform  society.  Loyalty  to  the  divine 
King — the  common  Father  of  all  mankind,  is  the  strongest  arid  only  universal 
bond  that  can  bind  all  men  together.  His  teachings,  therefore,  have  a  large 
social,  as  well  as  individual  significance,  for  they  contemplate  a  universal 
brotherhood  or  democracy  in  which  all  men  are  united  in  the  common  desire 
to  do  the  will  of  God." 

I  think  this  a  good  summary  of  the  message  that  your  sons  and 
daughters  are  giving  to  the  world.  They  teach  to  all  men  a  true 
conception  of  God.  They  invite  the  world  to  investigate  the  great 
declaration  that  God  and  his  beloved  Son  have  appeared  in  person  in 
this  dispensation.  What  a  glorious  message !  Second :  they  are  teach- 
ing men  the  means  of  attaining  a  higher  and  freer  and  diviner  life. 
Say  what  you  will,  that  is  their  only  purpose,  and  they  prove  their 
sincerity  in  it  by  leaving  their  loved  ones,  leaving  their  vocations,  spend- 
ing their  own  money,  or  the  hard  earnings  of  their  beloved  parents, 
in  trying  to  induce  men  to  hear  that  message.  Third :  they  can  stand 
before  the  people  of  the  world  and  say  that  "Mormonism"  does  con- 
template, in  its  ultimate  consummation,  the  transformation  of  society; 
and  who,  conversant  with  world  conditions  today,  will  say  that  the 
time  is  not  ripe  for  society  to  be  transformed ! 

THE   WORLD  REJECTS   THEIR  MESSAGE 

But  the  world  does  not  believe  this  message.  We  have  heard  in 
this  conference  about  evil  designing  men  and  women,  who  say,  in  sub- 
stance, that  our  missionaries  teach  one  thing,  but  the  people  prac- 
tice another  at  home.  Such  accusations  but  emphasize  the  importance 
of  preaching  to  the  world  by  example.  It  seems  to  me  that  this 
conference  has  been  characterized  by  the  gospel  of  application,  and  so, 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  feel  in  perfect  accord  with  the  spirit  when  I  ask  that  you  who  con- 
stitute part  of  the  two  hundred,  and  fifty  times  two  thousand  mission- 
aries, in  the  organized  stakes  and  branches  of  the  Church,  preach  by 
example  these  glorious  things — prove  to  the  world  that  you  are  not 
only  a  God-fearing,  but  a  God-trusting  people. 

RESPONSIBILITY  OF  ORGANIZED  BRANCHES  AND   WARDS   TO  EXEMPLIFY 
IN  DAILY  LIFE  THE  DOCTRINES  AND  PRINCIPLES  OF  THE  GOSPEL 

If  you  ask  me  where  I  first  received  my  unwavering  faith  in 
the  existence  of  a  God,  I  would  answer  you :  in  the  home  of  my 
childhood — when  father  and  mother  invariably  called  their  children 
around  them  in  the  morning  and  at  night,  and  invoked  God's  bless- 
ing upon  the  household  and  upon  mankind.  There  was  a  sincerity 
in  that  good  patriarch's  voice  that  left  an  undying  impression  in  the 
children's  souls ;  and  mother's  prayers  were  equally  impressive. 

I  ask  today  that  every  father  in  the  Church  see  to  it  that,  in  all 
sincerity,  he  impress  his  children  with  the  reality  of  the  existence  of 
God,  and  with  the  reality  that  God  will  guide  and  protect  his  chil- 
dren. You  carry  that  responsibility.  Home  is  one  of  the  units — 
the  fundamental  unit  of  society.  Let  the  sincere  investigators  who 
believe  more  from  what  they  see  than  from  what  they  hear,  find,  upon 
investigation,  that  "Mormons"  prove  by  example  in  the  home,  by  de- 
votion, and  in  their  service  to  God,  that  they  believe  and  know  that 
God  is  their  Father.  I  knew  before  I  heard  my  father  testify  that  he 
had  heard  a  divine  voice,  that  he  lived  near  to  his  Maker ;  and  I  know, 
by  a  nearness  to  that  same  Eternal  Father  since,  that  father  told  the 
truth  when  he  said  he  received  in  answer  to  prayer  this  admonition 
given  in  audible  tones :  "Testify  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  the 
living  God."  Such  is  the  reality  of  the  true  Latter-day  Saints'  con- 
ception of  God  the  Father. 

IDEALS 

Secondly,  I  would  ask  that  every  parent  in  the  Church  teach  men 
by  example  how  to  obtain  a  higher  and  freer  life.  Missionaries  are 
pointing  the  way ;  we  should  follow  it.  What  a  strength  it  would 
be  to  the  missionaries,  if  they  were  able  to  point  back  to  the  thou- 
sands and  thousands  of  villages  and  find  in  each  a  community  that 
introduces  into  its  life  the  higher  and  better  things.  We  have  heard 
much  throughout  this  conference  about  the  necessity  of  pure  individ- 
ual living.  We  have  heard  that  no  Latter-day  Saint  can  indulge  in 
"boot-legging"  with  impunity.  He  is  not  only  violating  the  law,  but 
he  is  casting  reflection  upon  his  people  and  upon  his  nation.  Latter- 
day  Saints  should  uphold  the  officers  in  their  efforts  to  ferret  out 
these  law  breakers.  No  Latter-day  Saint  can  enter  into  a  gambling 
den  without  casting  reflection  upon  his  people  and  without  violating 
the  statutes  of  his  state.  A  few  gambling  dens  are  still  found,  I 
am  informed,  in  Ogden  and  Salt  Lake  City  at  least,  and  it  behooves 
Latter-day  Saints  to  stand  by  the  officers  in  their  efforts  to  close  these 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


79 


places  of  vice.  Latter-day  Saints  do  not  smoke.  If  your  houses  are 
contaminated  with  tobacco  smoke,  your  appeals  to  God  are  not  going 
to  be  very  availing  in  the  minds  of  your  children.  Pray  to  him  to 
give  you  strength  to  overcome  the  habit,  and  I  promise  you  God  will 
give  you  that  strength.  I  care  not  how  viciously  the  habit  is  fixed 
in  your  body,  God  will  not  forsake  you  if  you  call  to  him  in  sincerity. 
Obedience  to  the  laws  of  health,  and  of  the  Spirit  will  lead  to  the 
higher  and  freer  life. 

Lastly,  missionaries  are  preaching  that  the  gospel  is  destined  to 
transform  society.  We  believe  it  and  we  believe  that  from  an  economic 
standpoint,  from  a  social  standpoint,  from  a  spiritual  standpoint,  we 
can  offer  to  the  world  today  such  practical  ideals  in  organized  so- 
ciety, that  if  applied  to  the  world,  would  alleviate  much  of  the  suffer- 
ing and  misery  in  this  poor  war-ridden,  famine  stricken,  selfish  world. 
Take  for  example  the  little  simple  work  of  your  fast  day ;  your  con- 
tribution to  the  poor.  I  remember  mentioning  that  before  an  audience 
in  New  Zealand,  at  Auckland,  about  six  hundred  non-members  being 
present.  We  took  that  as  the  theme  because  a  day  or  two  before  the 
meeting  a  paper  had  published  the  fact  that  citizens  had  discovered 
some  suffering  women  and  children  about  whose  condition  nobody 
seemed  to  be  aware.  Following  the  meeting,  a  man  said :  "Do  you 
really  mean  to  say  that  every  member  of  your  Church  is  visited  every 
month  by  some  officer?"  "Yes,  that  is  the  plan."  "And  that  the 
amount  contributed  once  a  month  on  your  fast  day  is  sufficient  to  meet 
all  the  needs  of  the  poor?"  "Yes,  that  is  the  fact.  All  do  not  do  it, 
however,"  I  confessed.  Ah,  that  is  it.  Don't  you  see — all  do  not 
comply.  All  do  not  come  up  to  the  standard.  O,  fathers  and  moth- 
ers, what  an  example  to  the  world  in  economic  salvation  if  we  could 
only  live  up  fully  to  this  economic  principle !  Let  us  determine  here 
and  now  to  raise  the  percent  per  capita,  of  our  fast  offerings.  Let  us 
raise  it  from  twenty  cents  to  a  dollar.  Though  that  is  not  what  it 
should  be,  what  a  lesson  to  the  distracted  government  in  this  war-torn 
world  today! 

I  was  in  Syria  when  some  of  your  fast  offerings  came  over  there, 
and  realized,  as  Brother  Booth  gave  out  relief  to  those  suffering 
Armenians,  that  one  hundred  cents  irn  every  dollar  went  to  those 
poor  people,  because  of  the  perfect  organization  of  the  Church.  The 
•  minimum  overhead  expense  was  not  deducted  from  your  contribu- 
tions. Let  us  return  home  from  this  conference  determined  to  live  up 
to  this  one  principle,  in  addition  to  the  many  others  that  have  been 
named.  Then,  as  the  boys  and  girls  are  preaching  and  bearing  testi- 
mony to  the  efficacy  of  "Mormonism,"  they  can,  with  pride,  point 
back  to  the  home  ward  and  say,  "You  may  find  these  principles  ex- 
emplified there."  Remember,  "example  is  more  forcible  than  precept." 
People  look  at  you  six  days  in  the  week  to  see  what  you  mean  on 
the  Sabbath. 

Therefore,  with  this  idea  that  we  are  giving  to  the  world  the 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


same  message  which  Christ  gave,  namely :  leading  the  people  to  a 
true  conception  of  God,  their  Father,  teaching  them  how  to  obtain 
higher  and  freer  life,  bearing  witness  to  them  that  it  is  possible  in 
this  day,  by  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel,  to 
transform  society;  let  us  resolve  this  day  to  "Be  noble;  and  the  noble- 
ness that  lies  in  other  men  sleeping,  but  never  dead,  will  rise  in 
majesty  to  meet  our  own."  In  this  way  we  can  make  our  light  so 
shine  among  men,  that  they  seeing  our  good  works  may  be  led  to 
glorify  their  Father  in  heaven." 

God  help  us  to  be  near  to  him,  for  I  testify  to  you  he  is  ever 
ready  to  be  near  to  us.    1  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

In  one  of  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  to  his  servant  Moses,  he 
made  use  of  this  expression:  "Behold  it  is  my  work  and  my  glory  to 
bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man."  As  "eternal 
life"  is  here  used,  we  understand  it  to  mean  exaltation  with  our  heavenly 
Father  in  his  Celestial  kingdom.  In  order  to  accomplish  this  purpose, 
the  gospel  was  instituted,  which  includes  the  atonement  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior  Jesus  Christ.  The  gospel  is  the  plan  of  the  Gods  for  the 
existence  of  this  earth  and  of  man  upon  it,  of  their  fall,  of  their  re- 
demption, and  of  their  glorification,  for  not  only  is  man  to  be  re- 
deemed and  glorified  through  obedience  unto  the  laws  and  ordinances 
of  the  gospel  and  the  effects  of  the  atoning  blood,  of  our  Savior,  but 
the  earth  also  is  to  be  renewed  and  receive  its  paradisical  glory,  and 
be  prepared  that  the  sanctified  may  dwell  upon  it. 

DISREGARD  FOR  LAW  THE  CAUSE  OF  THE  DOWNFALL  OF  NATIONS 

The  land  of  North  and  South  America  is  a  very  much  favored 
portion  of  our  Father's  footstool,  and  he  has  declared  with  his  own 
mouth  that  it  is  a  land  of  promise — a  chosen  land — above  all  other 
lands.  His  eye  has  been  upon  it.  In  the  days  of  the  confounding  of 
the  languages,  at  the  tower  of  Babel,  when  that  little  band  of  men 
and  women  associated  with  the  prophet  Jared,  and  his  brother  sought 
the  Lord  that  their  language  might  be  preserved,  and  that  his  favor 
might  be  extended  unto  them,  he  granted  their  desire  and  led  them 
across  the  mighty  waters  to  this  land  of  America.  They  were  given 
the  promise  that  if  they,  on  this  promised  land,  should  be  faithful, 
it  would  be  unto  them  a  land  of  promise  that  should  flow  with 
milk  and  honey,  but  that  if  they  did  not  serve  the  Lord,  but  engaged 
in  wickedness,  they  would  be  swept  off  the  face  thereof.  The  history 
of  this  people,  contained  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  plainly  tells  us  that 
because  of  their  wickedness,  notwithstanding  they  had  become  a  mighty 
and  a  numerous  people,  they  were  swept  from  off  the  earth,  through 
contention,  warfare  and  strife,  amongst  themselves. 

Some  six  hundred  years  before  the  coming  of  our  Lord  in  the 
meridian  of  times,  Lehi,  a  great  prophet,  with  Jeremiah  and  others, 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


81 


preached  the  gospel  to  the  inhabitants  of  Jerusalem,  but  his  testimony 
was  rejected  and  his  life  was  sought.  The  Lord  led  him  out,  with 
a  little  colony,  and  across  the  waters,  and  settled  them  also  in  America. 

Afterwards,  Mulek,  with  a  colony  from  Jerusalem  came  to  this 
country.  These  colonies  were  located  in  the  southern  part  of  North 
America,  in  Central  America,  and  in  the  northern  part  of  South 
America.  And  all  this  land,  as  well  as'  that  into  which  they  migrated 
to  the  north  and  to  the  south  was  designated  by  the  Lord  as  the  land 
of  promise.  Because  of  the  wickedness  of  a  part  of  the  people  of 
Lehi,  they  were  cursed  with  a  black  skin  and  became  a  degraded  and 
a  loathsome  people.  These  were  called  Lamanites,  after  their  first 
leader  in  rebellion.  The  remainder  of  the  people  of  Lehi  were  called 
the  Nephites.  In  the  course  of  time  they  also  became  wicked  and 
contentious  and  were  finally  destroyed.  I  believe  that  the  downfall  of 
governments  and  the  destruction  of  nations  is  a  natural  result  from 
a  disregard  for  law  and  government  and  for  the  principles  of  right- 
eousness.   Let  the  nations  be  warned. 

NEED   OF    LIVING   RIGHTEOUS  LIVES 

As  I  have  listened  to  the  brethren  speak  upon  the  keynote  topic 
as  it  has  been  characterized — obedience  unto  law,  I  have  thought  of 
and  counted  my  blessings,  and  among  them,  have  emphasized  the 
blessing  of  being  privileged  to  live  here  upon  this  land  of  America, 
and  particularly  within  the  confines  of  the  United  States,  because  it 
is  a  good  country,  but  more  than  this,  because  of  the  government  which 
God  has  given  us  in  these  United  States.  I  do  hope  and  pray  that 
the  people  now  inhabiting  these  lands  will  be  brought  to  a  realiza- 
tion of  the  necessity,  for  their  own  sake  and  the  sake  of  their  pos- 
terity, of  living  righteous  lives  and  of  seeking  the  God  of  this  land 
and  worshiping  and  serving  him.,  that  it  may  be  unto  us  a  land  of 
promise — a  choice  land  in  very  deed. 

I  am  thankful,  too,  for  my  home  and  the  happy  associations  I 
have  in  these  peaceful  valleys  of  the  mountains ;  also  for  the  pro- 
tection that  is  afforded  us  here;  and  for  the  peace  we  enjoy,  for 
there  is  a  peace  felt  here  that  is  not  felt  all  over  these  United  States 
and  in  the  other  countries  of  the  world. 

CLOSE  RELATIONSHIP  BETWEEN  MAN  AND  THE  EARTH,  THE  CHURCH 
AND  THE  NATION 

In  speaking  of  the  purpose  of  our  Lord,  the  plan  of  salvation, 
the  fall  of  man  and  of  the  earth,  I  desire  to  bring  to  your  atttention, 
my  friends  and  brethren  and  sisters,  the  close  relationship  existing 
between  man  and  this  earth.  When  man,  through  his  disobedience, 
was  cast  out,  the  earth  also  was  cursed  for  his  sake,  so*  that  instead  of 
bringing  forth,  spontaneously,  fruits,  flowers,  grains,  grasses,  etc., 
which  were  necessary  to  sustain  the  life  of  man  and  animals,  it  brought 
forth  thorns  and  thistles,  briars  and  obnoxious  weeds,  and  it  was  only 
by  the  sweat  of  the  face  of  man  that  those  needful  things  were  pro- 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


duced.  I  believe,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  there  is  a  similar  nearness 
existing  between  the  Church  of  Christ,  and  the  state,  or  the  law  of 
the  land  and  the  law  of  God,  particularly  as  regards  to  the  United 
States  and  the  government  thereof.  I  do  not  think  that  the  Church 
should  undertake  to  control,  or  to  dictate  in  state  affairs,  or  vice 
versa,  but  I  do  think  that  the  Church  and  the  State  alike,  should 
strive  to  make  the  people,  the  citizens  of  the  nation,  and  the  member- 
ship of  the  Church,  an  industrious,  prosperous,  law  abiding,  peace- 
able, and  righteous  people.  The  Church  needs  the  protection  which 
the  state  or  the  government  affords,  and  the  government  needs  the 
influence  of  the  Church  upon  the  lives  and  conduct  of  its  citizens. 

One  of  the  articles  of  faith  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  says:  "We  believe  in  being  subject  to  kings, 
presidents,  rulers  and  magistrates,  in  obeying,  honoring  and  sustaining 
the  law."  Behig  subject  to  kings  and  presidents?  Yes.  Rulers  and 
magistrates?  Yes.  By  reason  of  the  franchise  which  is  given  us  as 
citizens  of  these  United  States,  we  have  a  responsibility  and  a  priv- 
ilege ;  we  have  the  electing,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  of  those  who 
preside  over  us,  who  are  our  officers  and  our  servants,  and  it  is  the 
duty  of  every  citizen  of  the  United  States  to  use  his  franchise  and 
his  opportunities,  to  have  men  elected  to  office  in  the  city,  in  the 
county,  in  the  state,  and  in  the  nation,  who  will  fairly  represent  the 
people.  They  should,  themselves,  be  Saw-abiding  citizens.  They 
should  have  the  common  good  of  the  people  at  heart.  They  should 
be  philanthropic,  unselfish,  having  a  desire  to  use  their  talents,  and 
if  need  be,  their  means,  at  least  to  do  their  part  in  the  support  of  the 
government,  and  working  for  the  common  good  of  all.  They  should 
be  righteous  men,  so  that  they  may  receive  help  from  God,  and  he 
delights  to  help  those  who  are  righteous  and  who  are  engaged  in  a 
righteous  cause.  He  has  declared  by  his  own  voice  that  he  redeemed 
this  land  by  the  shedding  of  blood,  and  therefore  it  should  be  re- 
garded as  a  sacred  and  hallowed  land.  By  men  who  were  raised  up 
of  the  Lord  and  inspired  by  him,  the  constitution  of  these  United 
States  was  given  to  us,  and  all  the  laws  enacted  should  be  in  conformity 
therewith. 

A  DUTY  IN  SELECTING  LOYAL  OFFICERS  AND  SUSTAINING  THEM 

It  is  God's  government;  he  has  given  us  an  inspiration  in  regard 
to  government,  and  it  is  an  example  to  all  the  world.  I  see  no  reason 
why  a  senator  of  the  United  States,  a  governor  of  a  state,  a  legis- 
lative assembly,  the  judges  upon  the  bench,  or  other  officers  should 
not  be  so  true,  loyal,  and  righteous  that  God  would  give  to  them  in- 
spiration to  guide  them  in  their  work;  and  if  they  are  men  of  this 
character  we  will  support  and  sustain  them;  and  the  institutions  of 
our  country,  and  the  liberties  and  freedom  of  the  people  will  be  pre- 
served and  protected. 

We  have  a  duty  in  the  electing  of  these  officers,  and  then  when 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


83 


they  are  elected,  we  have  a  duty  to  support  and  sustain  them.  It 
matters  not,  when  the  President  of  these  United  States  is  elected 
and  takes  the  oath  of  office,  and  bears  the  responsibility  of  his  ad- 
ministration, whether  he  is  a  Republican  or  a  Democrat,  all  are  bound 
to  support  him  in  his  position.  If  he  does  not  magnify  his  calling 
according  to  his  oath  of  office,  I  suppose  he  may  be  impeached,  but 
until  he  is,  he  is  our  president  and  we  should  speak  well  of  him  at 
home  and  abroad ;  likewise  with  the  minor  officers — the  governors  of 
states,  the  mayors  of  our  municipalities,  etc. 

WE  BELIEVE  IN  HONORING  AND  SUSTAINING  THE  LAW 

We  believe  in  honoring  and  sustaining  the  law.  That  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  is  a  principle  of  the  gospel.  The  Lord  has  given 
us  that  and  it  means  that  he  expects  us,  as  members  of  his  Church, 
to  uphold  and  sustain  the  law,  and  to  be  obedient  unto  it,  and  when 
we  violate  the  laws  of  the  land,  we  violate  the  law  of  God,  and  we 
are  not  good  Latter-day  Saints;  we  are  not  worthy  representatives 
of  this  religious  body,  and  we  have  no  right,  in  ourselves,  to  disre- 
gard the  obligations  resting  upon  us  as  members  of  the  Church.  When 
men  are  elected  to  office,  where  it  becomes  their  duty  to  enforce 
the  law,  it  is  their  religious  duty,  as  well  as  a  civil  or  political  duty, 
to  enforce  the  law  according  to  their  understanding  of  it,  and  the 
powers  given  them  so  to  do.  And  so,  we  believe  in  upholding  and 
sustaining  the  law  and  the  authorities  of  the  law,  giving  them  our 
moral  support  and  all  the  support  we  have  to  give,  and  thus  we  main- 
tain the  integrity  of  the  government  of  the  United  States  and  of 
the  state  to  which  we  look  for  protection  in  those  things  which  are 
dearer  to  us  than  life  itself — liberty  and  the  right  to  worship  God 
according  to  the  dictates  of  our  conscience. 

So  I  say,  the  State  needs  the  Church  and  the  Church  needs  the 
State,  and  together  we  should  work  harmoniously  to  these  ends.  In 
doing  so,  we  are  helping  God,  the  eternal  Father,  in  the  great  aim  and 
purpose  of  all  his  works,  and  that  is  the  saving  of  the  souls  of  men 
in  his  kingdom. 

May  the  Lord  add  his  blessing,  I  pray,  in  Jesus  name.  Amen. 

Elder  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  sang,  the 
congregation  joining  in  the  chorus,  "Who's  on  the  Lord's  side,  who?" 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  gave  notice  of  overflow  meetings  to 
be  held  on  Sunday  at  the  Assembly  Hall  and  the  Bureau  of  Informa- 
tion, and  stated  that  this  was  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  the 
Church  that  people  had  been  obliged  to  stand  in  the  aisles  of  the 
building  on  the  week  days  of  any  general  Conference. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  U.  G.  Miller,  president  of 
the  Cottonwood  stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock,  Sunday  morning,  Oct.  8. 


THIRD  DAY 


The  conference  met  on  Sunday  morning,  October  8,  1922,  at  10 
a.  m.  There  was  not  an  available  seat  in  the  building,  unoccupied  and 
hundreds  were  standing  in  the  aisles,  and  remained  during  the  ser- 
vices. The  Assembly  Hall  was  also  packed  with  people,  and  there 
were  over  three  thousand,  in  attendance  at  the  Bureau  of  Information, 
with  many  standing  at  the  doors  of  the  Tabernacle. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided.  The  choir  and  congregation 
sang,  "Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Henry  H.  Blood, 
president  of  the  North  Davis  stake  of  Zion. 

A  sacred  duet,  "Hail  to  the  brightness  of  Zion's  glad  morning," 
was  sung  by  J.  R.  Boshard  and  Sarah  Ramsey. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

I  sincerely  desire,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  during  the  few  mo- 
ments which  I  may  occupy  this  morning,  of  the  time  which  is  allotted 
to  us,  that  I  may  be  sustained  by  your  faith  and  prayers.  I  feel  my 
dependence  upon  the  Lord,  possibly  as  I  have  never  felt  it  before,  be- 
cause the  older  I  become,  the  greater  my  experience,  the  more  I  come  to 
realize  that  the  power  of  God,  our  Father,  alone  can  make  us  strong. 

THE  CREATION 

"In  the  beginning  God  created  the  heavens  and  the  earth." 

If  the  chronology  of  the  Bible  is  correct — and  I  know  of  none 
better — nearly  six  thousand  years  have  elapsed  since  the  declaration 
which  I  have  read  was  made,  and  which  is  the  first  paragraph  from 
the  book  of  Genesis.  It  will  be  observed  that  this  statement,  like  all 
others  made  by  the  Lord,  is  a  definite,  abstract  declaration  of  fact. 
It  is  not  stated  as  a  theory,  a  thing  which  may  or  may  not  have  been, 
depending  upon  the  opinions  of  man  for  proof. 

God  created  man  in  his  own  image,  in  the  image  of  God  created 
he  him,  male  and  female  created  he  them,  and  said  unto  them  be  fruit- 
ful, and  multiply,  and  replenish  the  earth,  and  subdue  it,  and  have 
dominion  over  every  living  thing  that  moveth  upon  the  earth. 

The  story  of  the  creation  of  man,  and  the  purpose  for  which  he 
was  placed  upon  the  earth,  is  told,  not  in  its  fullest  detail,  of  course, 
in  the  brief  scripture  from  which  I  have  quoted.  Of  the  story  of 
man  during  the  Adamic  dispensation,  we  know  but  little.  The  his- 
tory of  one  thousand  five  hundred  years  and  more  is  told  in  the  Bible 
on  ten  short  pages,  and  modern  revelation  gives  us  but  brief  account 
of  the  happenings  between  the  creation  and  the  deluge. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS 


85 


MAN  GOVERNED  BY   CONTRARY  POWERS 

This  much,  however,  is  made  clear  to  us :  That  from  the  earliest 
period  of  his  existence  until  the  present  man  has  lived  a  dual  life, 
has  been  governed  by  one  <of  two  influences,  each  diametrically  op- 
posed to  the  other.  From  the  beginning  these  two  powers  have  striven 
for  the  mastery,  one  leading  men  on  to  higher  ideals,  teaching  faith, 
hope,  charity, 'patience,  love,  self  sacrifice,  humility,  righteousness  and 
justice.  The  other  leading  men  away  from  these  divine  ideals,  teach- 
ing selfishness,  personal  ambition,  love  of  power,  disregard  for  virtue, 
chastity,  equality  and  self  sacrifice. 

One  teaching  that  man  is  the  offspring  of  Deity,  created  in  the 
image  of  God,  and  placed  upon  the  earth  endowed  with  intelligence 
to  discern  between  good  and  evil,  between  right  and  wrong,  and  that 
the  Creator  would  hold  him  responsible  for  the  use  he  made  of  the 
agency  which  had  been  bestowed  upon  him.  The  other  teaching  that 
man  is  responsible  to  no  power  other  than  that  which  he  himself  has 
created,  and  that  his  future  state  is  not  influenced  by,  nor  dependent 
upon,  allegiance  to,  or  acknowledgment  of  a  supreme  being.  These  two 
influences  were  manifested  soon  after  our  first  parents  were  placed 
upon  earth. 

From  God,  our  Father,  through  his  Only  Begotten  Son,  came 
teachings  which,  if  adhered  to,  would  lead  man  back  into  the  pres- 
ence of  the  Father,  and  redeem  him  from  the  transgression  into  which 
he  had  fallen,  because  he  had  listened  to  Lucifer,  a  son  of  the  morn- 
ing, who  had  rebelled  against  God,  and  because  of  his  rebellion  had 
been  cast  down  with  his  angels,  banished  from  the  presence  of  the 
Father,  and  had  become  Perdition,  destined  to  fight  against  God,  to 
be  the  father  of  lies,  and  the  enemy  of  all  that  is  good. 

Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  the  Father  talked  with  Adam,  mak- 
ing plain  to  him  that  he  would  provide,  through  his  Only  Begotten 
Son,  a  Savior,  and  means  by  which  redemption  would  come  to  his 
posterity,  as  the  people  multiplied  they  refused  to  listen  to  his  teach- 
ings, and  came  to  love  Satan  more  than  God.  <, 

ENOCH  SENT  TO  CALL  THE  PEOPLE  TO  REPENTANCE 

Before  the  birth  of  Seth,  who  was  i  obedient  to  the  teachings  of 
his  father,  Adam,  and  became  a  preacher  of  righteousness,  the  peo- 
ple had  become  sensual  and  devilish.  Cain  had  learned,  through  the 
teachings  of  Satan,  'that  by  taking  the  life  of  his  brother  Abel  he 
could  become  possessed  of  his  flocks  and  herds,  he  had  been  taught 
that  by  combining  in  oath-bound  societies  power  could  be  obtained  by 
the  shedding  of  blood,  and  war 'and  bloodshed  prevailed  among  the 
people. 

At  this  time  the  Lord  sent  Enoch  to  call  the  people  to  repentance, 
and  he 'went  forth  testifying  to  the  redemption  which  would  come  in 
the  meridian  of  time,  through  the  atonement  which  was  to  be  made 
by  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father  in  the  flesh,  but  they  refused  to 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


listen,  and  so  great 'was  their  opposition  to  Enoch,  and  enmity  toward 
those  who  accepted  his  word,  that  it  became  necessary  for  the  Lord 
to  take  them  from  the  earth. 

iTHE  PROPHECIES  AND  WORK  OF  NOAH 

Again  the  Lord  sent  his  prophet  to  warn  the  people,  and  rescue 
them  from  the  power  of  Satan,  who  held  them  imbondage.  Noah,  who 
was  the  son  of  Lamech,  who  was  the  son  of  Methuselah,  who  was 
the  son  of  Enoch,  went  among  the  people  (prophesying  that  except 
they  renounced  their  (allegiance  to  Satan,  and  returned  to  the  Lord 
they  would  be  utterly  destroyed.  Again  the  message  fell  upon  deaf 
ears,  only  Noah  and  his  sons,  and  their  families  being  saved  when  the 
windows  of  heaven  were  opened,  land  the  floods  covered  the  earth. 

Thus  the  first  effort  made  by  the  Lord  to  teach  his  children  the 
plan  by  which  they  might  be  redeemed,  and  brought  back  into  his 
presence,  had 'failed,  so  far  as  the  great  majority  was  concerned,  one 
thousand  five  hundred  and  fifty  years  after  they  had  been  placed 
upon  the  earth. 

After  having  witnessed  this  great  manifestation  of  the  power  lof 
God,  and  the  result  which  is  inevitable  to  those  who  follow  after 
Satan,  for  he  sooner  or  later  leads  people  to  death,  sone  would  think 
that  the  lesson  would  always  be  remembered.  Noah  and  his  sons 
went  out  from  the  ark  humbled  and  convinced,  for  they  had  witnessed 
the  destruction  of  their  race,  but  the  lesson  was  soon  forgotten.  Two 
hundred  and  fourteen  years  after  the  ark  rested  on  jMount  Ararat 
the  people  were  again  traveling  in  the  broad  road  which  leads  to 
destruction.  They  had  again  turned  from  the  worship  of  the  true 
God  to  the  worship  of  idols. 

THE  CALLING  OF  ABRAHAM  AND  THE  RISE  OF  ISRAEL 

At  this  time  there  occurred  an  event  which  was  to  have  a  more 
direct  effect  upon  you  and  me  than  any  which  had  hitherto  transpired. 
From  his  home  in  Chaldea  the  Lord  called  Abraham,  and  taking  him 
up  into  Palestine  entered  into  covenant  with  him,  that  notwithstand- 
ing the  fact  that  he  was  a  childless  man,  he  would  make  his  posterity 
innumerable,  and  would  give  Palestine  to  him  and  his  children  for  an 
everlasting  inheritance,  and  that  through  him  all  of  the  nations  of  the 
earth  would  be  blessed. 

In  fulfilment  of  the  word  of  the  Lord  Isaac  was  born  to  Abraham 
and  Sarah,  and  he  became  the  father  of  Jacob,  who  was  the  father 
of  the  twelve  patriarchs,  the  founders  of  the  twelve  tribes  of  Israel. 
Again  the  keys  of  the  Priesthood  were  conferred  upon  men,  again 
the  prophets  declared  the  great  plan  of  human  redemption,  again  the 
law  of  sacrifice  was  restored  by  which  the  people  were  taught  that  an 
infinite  sacrifice  would  be  provided,  by  which  they  were  to  be  re- 
deemed from  death,  because  He  who  was  to  come  would  be  the  first 
fruits  of  the  resurrection  from  the  dead. 

At  one  time  it  appeared  that  the  word  of  the  Lord  would  not 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS 


87 


be  fulfilled,  for  Israel  left  Palestine,  and  went  into  Egypt,  where  for 
a  period  of  more  than  two  hundred  years,  the  greater  part  of  the 
time  in  servitude,  they  adopted  the  customs  and  idolatrous  worship  of 
the  Egyptians.  But  the  purposes  of  the  Lord  were  not  to  be  frus- 
trated, and  he  called  his  servant  Moses  who  led  Israel  out  from  the 
Egyptian  bondage,  and  back  to  the  promised  land,  the  land  which  the 
Lord  had  given  to  their  father  Abraham  to  be  an  everlasting  in- 
heritance. 

ISRAEL,  UNDER  DAVID  AND  SOLOMON,  A  DOMINANT  NATION 

The  Lord  again  showered  blessings  upon  the  people,  until  under 
David  and  Solomon,  their  prophet  kings,  they  became  one  of  the 
dominant  nations  of  the  world. 

During  the  Israelitish  period  the  Lord  again  raised  up  prophets 
who  testified,  as  prophets  had  testified  in  earlier  dispensations,  that 
the  Lord  would  send,  through  the  lineage  of  David,  the  Messiah, 
who  would  be  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  Isaiah  prophesied  that  a 
virgin  would  conceive  and  bear  a  Son,  whose  name  should  be  called 
Immanuel,  and  that  he  would  take  away  the  sins  of  the  world. 

The  time  had  come  when  the  Lord  was  again  to  offer  redemption 
to  the  people,  when  another  gospel  dispensation  was  to  be  ushered  in, 
the  effect  of  which  would  be  of  greater  importance  than  any  which 
had  gone  before,  or  would  follow  after.  The  appearance  of  prophets, 
warning  the  people  to  turn  from  the  service  of  Satan,  and  serve  the 
Lord,  was  not  its  outstanding  feature.  The  Lord  himself,  in  the 
person  of  his  Only  Begotten  Son,  was  to  come  to  earth,  that  through 
him  unconditional  redemption  from  death  might  be  wrought  out  for 
all  mankind,  and  forgiveness  for  personal  sin  assured  through  obe- 
dience to  the  doctrines  of  the  gospel  which  he  would  teach. 

The  Jewish  people,  blinded  by  the  teachings  of  men,  because  of 
their  prejudices,  their  traditions,  their  pride  and  faithlessness,  failed 
to  recognize  in  Jesus  Christ,  Shiloh,  to  whose  coming  they  had  long 
looked  forward,  influenced  as  they  were  by  Satan  rather  than  by  the 
Lord,  as  generations  before  them  had  been. 

THE  COMING  AND  THE  MISSION  OF  CHRIST 

In  vain  the  Redeemer  pleaded  with  them,  in  vain  he  wept  as  he 
gazed  upon  the  holy  city,  and  contemplated  the  ruin  which  must  in- 
evitably come.  In  vain  he  warned  the  people  of  the  consequences 
which  would  follow  rejection  of  his  word.  The  power  of  the  Almighty 
which  was  manifested  in  his  works,  the  love  of  God  exemplified  in 
his  ministry,  none  of  these  things  could  move  hearts  made  adamant 
by  the  power  of  the  evil  one. 

Christ  was  persecuted,  ridiculed,  his  message  rejected,  and  finally 
he  was  put  to  death  by  the  most  ignominious  process  known  to  man, 
and  that  by  his  own  people  whom  he  had  come  to  redeem.  In  part 
his  mission  had  failed,  but  the  great  purpose  of  his  coming  had  been 
accomplished,  for  the  bands  of  death  had  been  broken,  the  prison 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


doors  had  been  opened  and  the  captives  set  free,  death  could  no 
longer  forever  hold  captive  the  spirits  of  men. 

CHRIST  REJECTED  BY  THE  JEWS 

The  Church  which  Christ  and  his  disciples  established  struggled 
heroically  for  existence,  but  the  evil  one  so  dominated  the  minds  of 
men,  persecution  was  so  intense,  that  the  keys  and  power  of  the 
Priesthood  were  withdrawn,  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel  changed,  un- 
til the  Lord  ceased  to  recognize  the  Church  as  his. 

The  prophets  had  foreseen  and  declared  all  of  these  conditions. 
They  saw  the  dispersion  of  Israel,  the  suffering  of  the  Jewish  people, 
because  of  their  rejection  of  the  Savior,  who  had  been  sent  for  their 
redemption.  They  looked  forward  to  a  time  which  they  all  desired 
to  see,  a  day  when  the  Lord  would  set  his  hand  for  the  last  time  to 
redeem  his  people,  when  Satan  would  be  bound,  be  banished  from 
the  earth,  and  his  power  to  tempt  mankind,  and  lead  them  on  to 
destruction,  cease. 

A    NEW    GOSPEL  DISPENSATION 

It  was  a  period  when  a  new  gospel  dispensation  was  to  be  ushered 
in,  when  the  Lord  would  again  offer  salvation  to  the  people  of  the 
world,  when  he  would  gather  in  the  outcasts  of  Israel,  when  he  would 
prune  his  vineyard  for  the  last  time,  restore  the  keys  of  his  Priest- 
hood, and  consummate  the  work  which  had  been  commenced  in  the 
beginning.  When  he  would  send  his  Only  Begotten  Son  to  earth 
again,  this  time  to  reign  as  King  of  kings,  and  Lord  of  lords. 

The  time,  the  place,  the  manner  of  this  restoration  were  plainly 
outlined  by  the  prophets.  It  was  to  be  in  the  latter  days,  the  dis- 
pensation of  the  fulness  of  times ;  a  time  when  Satan  would  rage 
in  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men,  when  men's  hearts  would  fail 
because  of  fear,  when  there  would  be  war,  and  rumors  of  war,  when 
the  sea  would  heave  itself  beyond  its  bounds  and  the  whole  earth  be 
in  commotion. 

At  such  a  time  a  light  was  to  break  forth  among  those  who  sit  in 
darkness,  which  light  was  to  be  the  fulness  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  This  gospel,  the  Lord  himself  declared,  shall  be 
preached  in  all  the  world,  as  a  witness  unto  all  people,  and  then  shall 
the  end  come. 

THE  GATHERING  FORETOLD 

The  place  to  which  scattered  Israel  was  to  be  gathered  was  plainly 
indicated.  It  was  not  to  be  upon  the  islands  of  the  sea,  not  upon  the 
broad  plains  nor  in  the  open  vallies,  but  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains, 
in  a  country  which  had  been  regarded  as  a  barren  waste,  where  the 
desert  would  be  made  glad  because  of  those  who  were  to  redeem  and 
convert  it  into  fruitful  fields.  To  such  a  place  people  from  all  na- 
tions were  to  flow,  that  they  might  be  taught  the  law  of  the  Lord, 
and  learn  to  walk  in  his  paths. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS 


89 


That  a  work  could  be  inaugurated,  having  for  its  purpose  the 
conquest  of  sin,  the  subjugation  of  Satan,  and  his  final  banishment 
from  the  earth,  without  resistance  on  his  part  is  not  to  be  expected. 
Knowing  that  the  hosts  of  heaven  were  being  marshaled  for  the  last 
great  struggle  between  the  powers  of  light  and  darkness,  of  good  and 
evil,  of  right  and  wrong,  he  has  fought,  as  never  before,  to  defeat 
the  purposes  of  the  Almighty. 

THE  PERSONAGE  WHO  INAUGUARTED  THE  WORK 

When  the  time  came  for  the  opening  of  the  present  gospel  dis- 
pensation, Joseph  Smith,  who  was  to  be  made  the  instrument  through 
whom  the  work  would  be  inaugurated,  moved  upon  by  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord,  went  into  the  woods  to  pray.  The  effort  made  by  Satan 
to  prevent  the  accomplishment  of  the  purposes  of  the  Lord,  is  told  by 
Joseph  Smith  as  follows : 

"After  I  had  retired  to  the  place  where  I  had  previously  designed  to  go, 
having  looked  around  me,  and  finding  myself  alone,  I  kneeled  down  and  began 
to  offer  up  the  desires  of  my  heart  to  the  Lord.  [  had  scarcely  done  so 
when  I  was  immediately  seized  upon  by  some  power  which  entirely  overcame 
me,  and  had  such  an  astonishing  influence  over  me  as  to  bind  my  tongue,  so 
that  I  could  not  speak.  Thick  darkness  gathered  around  tme,  and  it  seemed 
to  me  for  a  time  that  I  was  doomed  to  sudden  destruction.  But  exerting  all 
my  powers  to  call  upon  God,  to  deliver  me  out  of  the  power  of  this  enemy 
which  had  seized  upon  me,  and  at  the  very  moment  when  I  was  about  to  sink 
into  despair,  and  abandon  myself  to  destruction,  not  to  an  imaginary  ruin,  but 
to  the  power  of  some  actual  being  from  the  unseen  world,  who  had  such 
marvelous  power  as  I  had  never  before  felt  in  any  being,  just  at  this  moment 
of  great  alarm,  I  saw  a  pillar  of  light  exactly  over  my  head,  above  the  bright- 
ness of  the  sun,  which  descended  gradually  until  it  fell  upon  me. 

"It  no  sooner  appeared  than  I  found  myself  delivered  from  the  enemy 
which  held  me  bound." 

THIS  RESTORED  GOSPEL  OF  THE  KINGDOM  TO  BE  PREACHED  IN 
ALL  THE  WORLD 

This  gospel  of  the  kingdom  was  to  be  preached  in  all  the  world,  as 
a  witness  to  all  people.  In  1837  Heber  C.  Kimball,  Orson  Hyde  and 
others  were  sent  to  Great  Britain  to  bear  the  message  of  the  restoration 
to  the  people  of  that  country,  which  was  to  contribute  such  strength  to 
the  Church.  They  arrived  there  on  the  20th  of  July.  Converts  were 
made  to  the  divinity  of  the  mission  of  Joseph  Smith,  and  a  time  ap- 
pointed when  the  ordinance  of  baptism  was  to  be  administered  to  those 
who  had  accepted  the  truth.  Sunday  was  the  day  when  this  or- 
dinance was  to  be  solemnized. 

EFFORTS  OF  THE  EVIL  ONE  TO  PREVENT  THE  PURPOSES  OF  GOD 

The  efforts  put  forth  by  the  evil  one,  to  prevent  the  accomplish- 
ment of  the  purposes  of  the  Lord,  on  the  night  before  the  Sunday  in- 
dicated, is  told  by  Heber  C.  Kimball  and  Orson  Hyde,  as  follows. 
Heber  C.  Kimball  says:  "While  I  was  thus  engaged  I  was  struck 
with  great  force,  by  some  invisible  power,  and  fell  senseless  to  the 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


floor.  The  first  thing  I  remembered  was  being  supported  by  Elders 
Hyde  and  Richards,  who  were  praying  for  me.  I  then  arose  and  sat 
upon  the  bed,  when  a  vision  was  opened  to  our  minds,  and  we  could 
plainly  see  the  evil  spirits  who  foamed  and  gnashed  their  teeth  at  us. 
They  came  toward  us  like  armies  rushing  to  battle." 

Orson  Hyde,  in  a  letter  written  to  Heber  C.  Kimball,  at  a  later 
date,  says :  "Every  circumstance  which  occurred  in  that  scene  of 
devils  is  just  as  fresh  in  my  recollection  as  it  was  at  the  time  of  its 
occurrence.  While  you  were  apparently  senseless  and  lifeless  upon  the 
floor,  and  on  the  bed,  after  we  had  laid  you  there,  I  stood  between 
you  and  the  devils  and  fought  them  face  to  face,  until  they  began  to 
diminish  in  number  and  retreat  from  the  room." 

EFFORTS  AND  METHODS  ADOPTED  BY  THE  EVIL  ONE  TO  THIS  END 

Failing  in  his  endeavor  to  prevent  the  restoration  of  the  gospel, 
and  the  organization  of  the  Church,  the  evil  one  has  concentrated  his 
efforts  to  prejudice,  by  falsehood  and  misrepresentation,  the  people 
•  of  the  world  against  the  truth.  Misrepresentation,  persecution,  in 
some  instances  death,  have  followed  the  elders  of  the  Church  where- 
ever  they  have  gone,  and  not*  satisfied  with  the  effort  put  forth  among 
the  people  of  the  world,  Satan  has,  by  every  strategy  known  to  him, 
endeavored  to  lead  away  from  the  Church  those  who  have  entered 
into  covenant  with  the  Lord  that  they  will  serve  him,  and  keep  his 
commandments. 

The  means  which  he  employs  for  the  accomplishment  of  his  pur- 
poses, are  many  and  varied.  Permit  me  to  read  from  the  Book  of 
Mormon : 

"Wo  unto  them  that  turn  aside  the  just  for  a  thing  of  naught,  and  revile 
against  that  which  is  good,  and'  say  that  it  is  of  n|D  worth !  For  thie  day  shall 
come  when  the  Lord  God  will  speedily  visit  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth;  and 
in  that  day  when  they  are  fully  ripe  in  iniquity  they  shall  perish. 

"But  behold,  if  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  shall  repent,  of  their  wicked- 
ness and  abominations  they  shall  not  be  destroyed,  saith  he  Lord  of  Hosts. 
For  the  kingdom  of  the  devil  must  shake,  and  they  which  belong  to  it  must 
needs  be  stirred  up'  unto  repentance,  lor  the  devil  will  grasp  them  with  his 
everlasting  chains,  and  they  be  stirred  up  to  anger  against  that  which  is  good, 
and  perish ;  for  behold  at  that  day  shall  he  rage  in,  the  hearts  of  the  children  of 
men,  and  stir  them  up  to  anger  against  that  which  is  good. 

"And  others  he  will  pacify,  and  lull  them  away  into  carnal  security  that 
they  will  say :  All  is  well  in  Zion ;  yea,  Zion  prospereth  all  is  well,  and  thus 
the  devil  cheateth  their  souls,  and  leadeth  them  away  carefully  down  to  hell. 

"And  behold,  others  he  flattereth  away,  and  telleth  them  there  is  no  hell, 
and  he  sayeth  unto  them,  I  am  no  Devil,  for*  there  is  none,  and  thus  he  whis- 
pereth  in  their  ears,  until  he  grasp  them  with  his  awful  chains,  from  whence 
there  is  no  deliverence." 

SUGGESTIONS  FROM  THE  ENEMY  OF  RIGHTEOUSNESS 

Have  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  experienced  the  effect  of 
these  various  efforts  of  the  evil  one  to  shatter  your  faith  ?  Has  he 
ever  whispered  in  your  ear,  when  you  have  gone  to  the  Lord  in  prayer, 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS 


91 


that  there  was  no  one  to  hear  and  answer  you  ?  At  times  when  your 
prayers  have  not  been  answered,  as  you  may  have  desired,  has  his 
voice  whispered  to  you  that  it  was  useless  to  pray?  Has  doubt  and 
uncertainty  entered  your  minds  where  faith  and  hope  had  been  be- 
fore? Has  he  attempted,  by  flattery  and  praise  of  the  world  to  per- 
suade you  that  you  are  great  and  strong,  and  do  not  need  the  strength 
which  comes  from  the  Lord?  Has  he  filled  your  heart  with  ambition, 
thirst  for  wealth  and  power,  banishing  from  you  the  spirit  of  humility 
and  self-sacrifice,  without  which  it  is  impossible  to  please  the  Lord? 
Has  he  whispered  in  your  ear  that  violation  of  the  law  of  chastity  is 
not  a  grave  offense,  that  you  may  lie  a  little,  steal  a  little,  take  ad- 
vantage of  one  because  of  his  words,  that  you  may  disregard  and  vio- 
late the  law  of  the  land,  or  the  law  of  the  Lord,  and  be- justified  ? 

All  such  suggestions  come  from  the  enemy  of  righteousness,  to 
whom  I  have  made  reference,  and  to  whose  strength  and  power  I 
have  desired  to  call  your  attention  in  my  remarks.  If  we  transform 
the  mental  pictures  which  are  photographed  upon  our  minds  by  this 
power,  into  actions,  we  are  in  the  grasp  of  Satan,  from  which  only 
sincere  repentance  can  rescue  us. 

'  HOW  SHALL  WE  FORTIFY  AGAINST  THESE  SHAFTS  OF  EVIL? 

By  what  process  may  we  be  fortified  and  made  impregnable  against 
these  shafts  of  the  enemy?  We  must  put  on  the  armor  of  righteous- 
ness, and  keep  it  constantly  bright  in  the  service  of  the  Lord.  We 
must  keep  in  constant  communion  with  him  through  prayer. 

Prayer  is  the  key  which  opened  this  gospel  dispensation,  it  is  the 
channel  through  which  the  Son  communed  with  the  Father,  through 
which  Saints  were  strengthened  to  endure,  and  rejoice  in  persecution, 
the  gateway  through  which  the  repentant  sinner  may  find  his  way 
back  to  God. 

Are  the  Latter-day  Saints  forgetting  this  obligation  which  they 
owe  to  the  Lord,  this  one  source  of  strength  against  the  power  of 
Satan?  Are  we  regular  in  our  family  prayers,  do  we  go  to  the  Lord 
in  secret,  and  put  our  trust  in  him  in  all  of  the  activities  of  life?  Let 
these  presidents  of  stakes,  these  seventies,  bishops,  ward  teachers  and 
Church  members  who  are  present  ask  themselves  these  questions,  and 
answer  them.   Let  me  again  read  briefly  from  the  Book  of  Mormon : 

"Therefore  may  God  grant  unto  you,  my  brethren,  that  ye  may  begin  to 
exercise  your  faith  unto  repentance,  that  ye  begin  to  call  upon  his  holy  name, 
that  he  would  have  mercy  upon  you. 

"Yea,  cry  unto  him  for  mercy;  for  he  is  mighty  to  save. 

"Yea,  humble  yourselves,  and  continue  in  prayer  unto  him. 

"Cry  unto  him  when  ye  are  in  your  fields,  yea,  over  all  of  your  flocks. 

"Cry  unto  him  in  your  houses,  yea,  over  all  our  household,  both  morning, 
mid-day,  and  evening. 

"Yea,  cry  unto  him  against  the  power  of  your  enemies. 

"Yea,  cry  unto  him  against  the  devil,  who  is  an  enemy  to  all  righteousness. 

"Cry  unto  him  over  the  crops  of  your  fields,  that  ye  may  prosper  in  them. 

"Cry  over  the  flocks  of  your  fields,  that  they  may  increase. 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"But  this  is  not  all;  ye  must  pour  out  your  souls  in  your  closets,  and  your 
secret  places,  and  in  your  wilderness. 

"Yea,  and  when  you  do  not  cry  unto  the  Lord,  let  your  hearts  be  full, 
drawn  out  in  prayer  to  him  continually  for  your  welfare,  and  also  for  the 
welfare  of  those  who  are  around  you." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  these  words  of  the  Lord  apply  to  us 
today,  as  they  applied  to  those  to  whom  they  were  delivered  in  times 
gone  by.  The  power  of  the  evil  one  is  not  broken;  he  rules  the  world 
today.  The  lust  for  power,  ambition,  selfishness,  class  distinction, 
the  hatred  of  one  race  toward  another,  all  of  these  things  are  inspired 
by  the  same  influence  which  led  away  our  first  parents. 

HOW  WE  MAY  KNOW  THE  WILL  OF  GOD 

A  person  said  to  me  the  other  day:  "What  is  the  use  of  trying? 
The  will  of  the  Lord  will  be  done,  anyhow." 

The  trouble,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  that  the  will  of  the  Lord 
has  never  been  done,  from  the  beginning  to  the  present,  so  far  as  it 
applies  to  the  people  at  large.  It  was  not  his  will  that  the  people 
should  perish  in  the  flood.  He  repeatedly  called  them  to  repentance, 
and  promised  that  destruction  should  be  stayed,  if  they  would  only 
return  to  him. 

It  was  not  his  will  that  Israel  should  be  scattered,  and  the  Jewish 
people  suffer  as  they  have,  it  was  because  of  their  transgression.  It 
is  not  his  will  that  turmoil,  war  and  bloodshed  prevail  in  the  world 
today.  These  conditions  are  all  because  of  lack  of  faith  on  the  part 
of  the  people,  and  because  they  refuse  to  listen  to  the  voice  of  the 
Lord,  as  it  has  come  to  us  through  his  servants,  the  prophets. 

The  Lord  has  repeatedly  called  the  people  to  repentance,  has  re- 
peatedly said  that  redemption  might  come,  if  they  would  return  to 
him,  and  renounce  their  allegiance  to  the  evil  one.  In  this  dispensa- 
tion he  has  said  that  Zion  might  have  been  redeemed  had  the  faith  of 
the  people  been  sufficient. 

It  is  true  that  the  Lord  has  decreed  certain  definite  unchangeable 
purposes,  and  these  he  will  accomplish.  How  may  we  know,  then, 
the  will  of  the  Lord,  and  distinguish  between  his  works  and  those  of 
Satan?  The  key  is  a  simple  one.  Everything  which  persuades  to  do 
that  which  is  good,  is  from  the  Lord.  Whatever  is  evil,  and  persuades 
men  to  do  that  which  is  not  good,  is  from  the  evil  one. 

REPENTANCE  NECESSARY 

Have  not  we,  ourselves,  been  witnesses  of  the  inevitable  results 
which  come  to  those  who  follow  after  Satan?  Never  before  in  mod- 
ern times,  and  I  believe  not  in  ancient  times  either,  has  the  necessity 
for  repentance  been  more  plainly  manifest  than  in  our  day. 

THE  NATIONS  HAVE  AGAIN  REFUSED  TO  LISTEN  TO  GOD'S  CALL  TO  PEACE 

It  was  not  the  will  of  the  Lord  that  we  should  become  involved  in 
the  greatest  war  the  world  has  ever  known,  it  is  not  his  will  that  the 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


93 


nations  are  divided  and  in  strife  today,  that  war  clouds  are  again  gath- 
ering which  threaten  the  peace  of  the  world,  and  the  very  existence  of 
civilization.  It  is  because  men  refuse  to  listen  to  the  voice  of  the 
Lord,  who  is  calling  them  to  peace,  and  good  will  one  toward  the 
other.  Peace  can  be  established  at  any  moment,  it  could  have  been 
established  long  ago,  if  the  people  of  the  world  would  only  unite  in 
a  determined  effort  to  prevent  war.  Ridicule  it  as  you  may,  make 
light  of  it,  oppose  it,  the  fact  remains  that  never  in  the  history  of 
modern  time,  has  such  opportunity  been  held  out  to  the  people  for 
the  establishment  of  peace,  as  that  which  has  come  in  our  day. 
Humbled,  in  sorrow  and  mourning,  when  the  time  came  that  war 
might  have  been  forever  suppressed,  when  conditions  might  have  been 
established  which  would  have  made  war  impossible,  the  nations  re- 
fused to  listen. 

Again  they  started  in  the  broad  road,  which  leads  to  destruc- 
tion. Again  selfishness,  pride,  love  of  power,  the  exalting  of  one 
nation  above  another,  one  race  above  another,  menaces  the  world, 
and  the  civilization  which  is  upon  it. 

MAY  THE  TIME  SOON  COME  WHEN  THE  WORLD  WILL  TURN  FROM 

EVIL  TO  GOOD 

God  grant  that  the  time  may  soon  come  when  the  people  of  the 
world  will  learn,  from  the  experiences  of  the  past,  which  we  seem 
slow  to  profit  by,  that  it  rests  with  them,  with  us,  to  turn  from  all 
that  leads  us  away  from  the  teachings  of  the  Redeemer,  to  turn  from 
evil  to  good,  lest  God's  judgment  come  upon  the  people  of  the  world, 
and  they  be  so  humiliated  and  decimated  that  there  will  be  none  to 
offer  resistance,  when  the  time  of  redemption  shall  finally  come. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  fortify  us  against  the 
power  of  the  evil  one,  make  us  strong  in  righteousness  and  good  works, 
that  we  may  be  accepted  of  the  Lord,  and  keep  our  feet  planted 
firmly  in  the  path  which  leads  back  into  his  presence,  I  humbly  pray, 
through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem  by  Evan  Stephens,  "Let  the  mountains 
shout  for  joy.'' 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Praise  God  from  whom  all 
blessings  flow." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  evidence  of  the  "decline"  (  ?)  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  is  seen  in  this  vast  audience.  When  I  was  one  of 
the  junior  members  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  we  never  held  an 
overflow  meeting  Sunday  morning,  because  this  building  held  all  of 
the  people.  Today  the  Assembly  Hall  is  crowded  to  overflowing ;  peo- 
ple are  standing  here,  and  we  have  an  overflow  meeting  on  the  grounds 
in  front  of  the  Bureau  of  Information,  because  the  assembly  hall  in 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  building  will  not  hold  the  Saints.  I  am  informed  there  are  three 
thousand  people  on  the  outside. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  spirit  that  has  character- 
ized this  gathering,  and  the  other  sessions  of  this  conference,  may  con- 
tinue to  the  end,  and  that  I  may  be  a  partaker  of  it  to  the  extent 
that  my  tongue  may  be  loosed  and  that  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord 
may  flow  through  me,  during  the  time  I  stand  here.  I  feel  my  weak- 
ness, and  I  sense  the  responsibility  that  attaches  to  one  who  is  called 
to  address  the  members  of  this  great  Church,  in  a  general  conference. 

We  have,  during  the  splendid  sessions  that  we  have  attended, 
received  many  instructions.  There  has  been  running  through  all  the 
discourses,  that  which  was  given  to  us  by  the  President  in  his  open- 
ing address — the  keynote,  if  you  will,  of  this  conference — "Obedience," 
not  only  to  the  laws  of  the  land,  but  to  the  word  of  the  Lord.  Our 
heavenly  Father  has  made  it  very  plain  to  us  in  our  day,  that  no  man 
hath  need  to  break  the  law  of  the  land  in  order  to  follow  the  teachings 
of  our  heavenly  Father.  On  the  contrary,  he  has  made  it  obligatory 
upon  us  that  we  should  observe  the  law  of  the  land. 

A  BLESSED  LAND  IN   WHICH   WE  LIVE 

I  find  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  section  101 :76-80,  the 
following : 

"And  again  I  say  unto  you,  those  who  have  been  scattered  by  their 
enemies,  it  is  my  will  that  they  should  continue  to  importune  for  redress, 
and  redemption,  by  the  hands  of  those  who  are  placed  as  rulers  and  are 
in  authority  over  you — 

"According  to  the  laws  and  constitution  of  the  people,  which  I  have 
suffered  to  be  established,  and  should  be  maintained  for  the  rights  and 
protection  of  all  flesh,  according  to  just  and  holy  principles; 

"That  every  man  may  act  in  doctrine  and  principle  pertaining  to 
futurity,  according  to  the  moral  agency  which  I  have  given  unto  him,  that 
every  man  may  be  accountable  for  his  own  sins  in  the  day  of  judgment. 

"Therefore,  it  is  not  right  that  any  man  should  be  in  bondage  one  to 
another. 

"And  for  this  purpose  have  I  established  the  Constitution  of  this  land, 
by  the  hands  of  wise  men  whom  I  raised  up  unto  this  very  purpose,  and 
redeemed  the  land  by  the  shedding  of  blood." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  if  there  is  any  doubt  in  your  minds  about 
this  being  a  blessed  land  in  which  you  live,  and  that  an  all-powerful 
hand  controls  its  destinies,  remember  that  it  was  the  Lord  himself  who 
raised  up  wise  men  to  give  to  us  our  Constitution — the  greatest  pala- 
dium  of  human  rights  that  any  people  have  ever  known. 

A    LAND    HIDDEN    FOR    THE    LORD    TO  PEOPLE 

There  are  those  who  would  destroy  the  Constitution  of  this  land ; 
and  there  are  some  who  would  rejoice  if  they  could  overthrow  this- 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


95 


Nation,  not  realizing  that  our  heavenly  Father  has  given  us  the  best 
government  on  earth.  No  loyal  member  of  this  great  Church  will 
raise  his  voice  against  the  government,  but  he  will  be  found  uphold- 
ing it;  he  will  be  found  praying  for  those  who  have  been  exalted  to 
the  office  of  presidency  and  for  those  who  make  the  laws,  under  the 
Constitution.  He  will  petition  his  Father  in  heaven  for  the  governors 
and  legislators  of  States,  and  for  all  those  who  are  chosen  from  time 
to  time  to  administer  the  laws  that  are  calculated  to  continue  unto  us 
our  liberty  that  they  may  be  wise  and  just  and  exemplars  to  the 
people.  If  you  are  doubtful  as  to  the  interest  of  our  heavenly  Father 
in  the  settlement  of  this  land,  read  in  the  first  chapter  of  2nd  Nephi 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  where  the  Lord  says  that  it  had  been  his 
purpose  to  keep  America  hidden  from  the  other  nations  until  he  was 
ready  to  have  it  peopled.  Read  also  from  the  Book  of  Mormon,  I 
Nephi  13:10-19: 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  looked  and  beheld  many  waters;  and  they 
divided  the  Gentiles  from  the  seed  of  my  brethren. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  angel  said  unto  me :  Behold  the  wrath  of 
God  is  upon  the  seed  of  thy  brethren. 

"And  I  looked  and  beheld  a  man  among  the  Gentiles,  who  was  sep- 
arated from  the  seed  of  my  brethren  byt  the  many  waters;  and  1  beheld 
the  Spirit  of  God,  that  it  came  down  and  wrought  upon  the  man:  and  he 
went  forth  upon  the  many  waters,  even  unto  the  seed  of  my  brethren, 
who  were  in  the  promised  land. 

'And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  beheld  the  Spirit  of  God,  that  it  wrought 
upon  other  Gentiles  and  they  went  forth  out  of  captivity,  upon  the  many 
waters. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  beheld  many  multitudes  of  the  Gentiles 
upon  the  land  of  promise;  and  I  beheld  the  wrath  of  God,  that  it  was  upon 
the  seed  of  my  brethren;  and  they  were  scattered  before  the  Gentiles  and 
were  smitten. 

"And  I  beheld  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  that  it  was  upon  the  Gentiles, 
and  they  did  prosper  and  obtain  the  land  for  their  inheritance;  and  I  be- 
held that  they  were  white,  and  exceedingly  fair  and  beautiful,  like  unto 
my  people  before  they  were  slain. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I,  Nephi,  beheld  that  the  Gentiles  who  had 
gone  forth  out  of  captivity  did  humble  themselves  before  the  Lord;  and 
the  power  of  the  Lord  was  with  them. 

"And  I  beheld  that  their  mother  Gentiles  were  gathered  together  upon 
the  waters,  and  upon  the  land  also,  to  battle  against  them. 

"And  I  beheld  that  the  power  of  God  was  with  them,  and  also  that 
the  wrath  of  God  was  upon  all  those  that  were  gathered  together  against 
them  to  battle. 

"And  I,  Nephi,  beheld  that  the  Gentiles  that  had  gone  out  of  captivity 
were  delivered  by  the  power  of  God  out  of  the  hands  of  all  other  nations." 

This  refers  to  Christopher  Columbus  and  the  Pilgrim  Fathers. 
It  was  the  Lord  that  inspired  that  little  band  of  people  who  crossed 
the  mighty  ocean  and  landed  at  Plymouth  Rock,  because  they  desired 
to  worship  him  according  to  the  dictates  of  their  own  conscience.  He 
watched  over  them  and  safeguarded  their  descendants  and  those 
who  followed  them  to  America,  and  in  due  time,  there  came  an  oppor- 
tunity to  establish  liberty  such  as  humankind  had  not  known  before. 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  Lord  raised  up  Washington,  and  with  him  that  body  of  men 
who  fought  valiantly  to  establish  for  us  in  this  land  a  government  for 
which  surely  we  are  all  grateful. 

OBEY  THE  LAWS  ;  SEEK  THE  LORD,  AND  KEEP  HIS  COMMANDMENTS 

Do  not  be  deceived  by  evil  minded  men  who  would  destroy  your 
happiness.  Seek  the  Lord  in  prayer  and  he  will  hear  your  petition 
and  inspire  you  aright ;  and  we  have  need  of  his  guidance  in  these 
days.    We  read  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  46:7-9: 

"But  ye  are  commanded  in  all  things  to  ask  of  God,  who  giveth  lib- 
erally; and  that  which  the  Spirit  testifies  unto  you  even  so  I  would  that 
ye  should  do  in  all  holiness  of  heart,  walking  uprightly  before  me,  con- 
sidering the  end  of  your  salvation,  doing  all  things  with  prayer  and 
thanksgiving,  that  ye  may  not  be  seduced  by  evil  spirits,  or  doctrines  of 
devils,  or  the  commandments  of  men;  for  some  are  of  men,  and  others  of 
devils. 

"Wherefore,  beware  lest  ye  are  deceived;  and  that  ye  may  not  be  de- 
ceived seek  ye  .earnestly  the  best  gifts,  always  remembering  for  what  they 
are  given; 

"For  verily  I  say  unto  you,  they  are  given  for  the  benefit  of  those  who 
love  me  and  keep  all  my  commandments,  and  him  that  seeketh  so  to  do; 
that  all  may  be  benefitted  that  seek  or  that  ask  of  me,  that  ask  and  not 
for  a  sign  that  they  may  consume  it  upon  their  lusts." 

Our  feet  have  been  planted  upon  this  sacred  soil  for  a  wise  pur- 
pose. This  land  has  been  dedicated  for  the  blessing  of  mankind. 
The  Constitution  and  the  laws  that  have  been  enacted  under  its  pro- 
visions are  calculated  to  insure  liberty,  not  license,  to  all  who  dwell  here. 
This  Church  with  which  we  are  identified,  stands,  if  it  stands  for 
anything,  for  the  perpetuation  of  the  liberties  of  all  mankind.  We 
should  not  listen  to  those  who  find  pleasure  in  teaching  sedition. 
Neither  should  we  follow  those  who  claim  to  be  citizens  of  this  land, 
who  go  about  violating  the  laws  that  govern  it.  There  are  many  who 
are  failing  to  do  their  duty  as  citizens  who  have  the  right  of  franchise, 
but  who  are  unworthy  of  that  blessing  that  has  come  to  those  who 
live  in  this  wonderful  country. 

President  Ivins  has  very  beautifully  portrayed  to  us  this  morning 
the  condition  of  the  world,  and  has  pointed  out  that  the  trouble  is  that 
men  have  apostatized  from  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  They  have  set 
up  churches  of  their  own.  Men  have  assumed,  of  their  own  wisdom, 
to  point  the  way,  and  they  have  forgotten  the  teachings  of  the  Creator 
and  in  their  pursuit  of  the  gifts  of  our  Father  in  heaven, — they  have 
forgotten  the  giver. 

Upon  you  men  of  Israel — to  whom  the  Priesthood  of  the  Holy 
One  has  been  given — there  rests  an  obligation.  You  must  serve  the 
Lord  and  keep  his  commandments.  It  matters  not  what  others  may 
do,  but  for  you  there  is  only  one  course,  and  that  is  to  be  obedient 
to  law,  and  to  sustain  the  Constitution  of  this  great  land,  and  to  sus- 
tain those  influences  and  powers  wherever  they  may  be,  that  are 
calculated  to  uplift  the  human  family. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


97 


OBEDIENCE  ENJOINED 

Our  heavenly  Father  has  given  unto  us  this  information,  in  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  130:18-21. 

"Whatever  principle  of  intelligence  we  attain  unto  in  this  life,  it  will 
rise  with  us  in  the  resurrection. 

"And  if  a  person  gains  more  knowledge  and  intelligence  in  this  life, 
through  his  diligence  and  obedience,  than  another,  he  will  have  so  much  the 
advantage  in  the  world  to  come. 

"There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  foundations 
of  this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated — 

"And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that 
law  upon  which  it  is  predicated." 

There  should  go  forth  from  this  great  Church  an  influence  in- 
tended to  leaven  the  whole  lump.  We  have  received  knowledge  and 
information  that  our  Father's  children  elsewhere  know  not  of.  We 
are  in  the  position  of  Noah,  who,  in  his  day,  went  to  and  fro  in  the 
world,  proclaiming  the  truth,  calling  all  men  to  turn  from  the  error  of 
their  way,  warning  them  of  the  impending  judgments  that  would 
fall  upon  them  if  they  failed  to  repent;  but,  in  due  time  those  who 
refused  to  reform,  their  lives  and  failed  to  listen  to  that  servant  of  the 
Lord,  became  absolutely  unfit  to  inhabit  this  earth  and  they  were 
overwhelmed  by  the  flood,  while  the  eight  who  were  righteous  were 
preserved  from  that  awful  calamity. 

REPENTANCE  A  KjE&IEDY  FORI  THE!  ILLS  OF  THE  WORLD 

History  has  repeated  itself  many  times — children  of  God  who 
have  followed  his  teachings  have  been  preserved,  and  those  who  have 
refused,  have  gone  into  darkness  and  have  been  destroyed.  Take  the 
American  Indians  as  another  illustration.  Their  ancestors  were  a 
white  and  delightsome  people,  brought  away  by  the  Lord  before  the 
destruction  of  Jerusalem,  in  order  that  they  might  have  an  oppor- 
tunity to  develop  upon  this  favored  land.  Because ,  they  refused  to 
keep  the  commandments  of  God,  because  they  disobeyed  the  law  and 
determined  to  be  a  law  unto  themselves,  they  retrograded  and  were 
cursed  with  a  dark  skin  and  became  the  unfortunate  race  that  wan- 
dered over  this  great  western  hemisphere  for  generations,  before  the 
coming  of  the  white  man. 

The  Lord  has  watched  over  this  land,  he  directed  Columbus  to 
these  shores,  he  led  the  Pilgrims  here,  he  established  the  Constitution 
of  the  United  States,  and  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  restored 
the  everlasting  gospel  to  bless  the  children  of  men,  and  if  they  will 
accept  it  and  obey  it,  it  will  be  the  salvation  of  the  human  family. 

There  is  no  other  remedy  for  the  ills  of  this  world  but  repentance ; 
there  is  no  preservation  from  the  evils  that  will  overtake  mankind  but 
on  the  score  of  righteousness.  Unless  men  turn  to  the  Lord  history 
will  repeat  itself  and  destruction  overtake  the  wicked.  You  already 
know  that  and  understand  it — you,  upon  whose  heads  have  been  laid 


98  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

the  hands  of  the  servants  of  the  Lord ;  upon  whom  have  been  be- 
stowed the  holy  Priesthood — you  realize  that  God  will  not  be  mocked 
and  that  it  is  our  duty  as  men  of  Israel  to  go  in  love  and  in  kind- 
ness and  with  charity  to  all  men,  and  divide  with  them  this  glorious 
message  that  has  been  given  to  us  in  this  latter  day. 

OUR  DUTY  TO  PREACH  THE  GOSPEL  OF  PEACE 

We  read  in  the  23rd  chapter  of  St.  Matthew,  where  the  Savior 
foresaw  the  calamity  that  was  coming  upon  his  people  and  was  greatly 
distressed.   He  said : 

"O  Jerusalem,  Jerusalem,  thou  that  killest  the  prophets  and  stonest 
them  which  ar,e  sent  unto  thee,  how  often  would  I  have  gathered  thy 
children  together,  even  as  a  hen  gathered  her  chickens  under  her  wings, 
and  ye  would  not!" 

O  that  this  great  Church,  with  power  that  has  been  given  to  it 
of  God,  might  be  able  to  more  rapidly  disseminate  the  truth,  and  save 
the  nations  from  destruction.  We  are  growing  rapidly,  as  an  organ- 
ization, but  I  rejoice  not  so  much  in  the  increase  numerically  as  I  do 
in  the  belief  that  the  influence  that  we  radiate  is  being  felt  for  good 
and  that  our  Father's  children,  from  the  north  to  the  south,  and  from 
the  east  to  the  west,  are  hearing  the  message  of  life  and  salvation, 
without  which  they  cannot  dwell  in  the  presence  of  the  Redeemer  of 
mankind. ' 

ABRAHAM    LINCOLN'S    IMPORTANT  MESSAGE 

President  Abraham  Lincoln,  in  one  of  his  important  messages, 
gives  to  us  this  remarkable  advice : 

"Let  every  American,  every  lover  of  liberty,  every;  well-wisher  to  his 
posterity,  swear  by  the  blood  of  the  revolution  never  to  violate,  in  the 
least  particular,  the  laws  of  the  country,  and  never  to  tolerate  their  vio- 
lation by  others.  As  the  patriots  of  76  did  to  the  support  of  the  Dec- 
laration of  Independence,  so  to  the  support  of  the  Constitution  and  laws, 
let  every  American  pledge  his  life,  his  property,  and  his  sacred  honor. 
Let  .every  man  remember  that  to  violate  the  laws  is  to  trample  on  the  blood 
of  his  fathers  and  to  tear  the  charter  of  his  own  and  his  children's  lib- 
erty. Let  reverence  for  the  laws  be  breathed  by  every  American  mother  to 
the  lisping  babe  that  prattles  on  her  lap.  Let  it  be  taught  in  schools;,  in 
seminaries  and  in  colleges.  Let  it  be  preached  from  the  pulpit,  proclaimed 
in  the  legislative  halls,  and  enforced  in  courts  of  justice — in  short,  let  it 
become  the  political  religion  of  this  nation." 

That  was  the  voice  of  him  now  stilled  in  death,  who  gave  his  life 
because  of  his  desire  for  the  perpetuation  of  the  liberty  that  was  guar- 
anteed under  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States.  He  was  un- 
afraid. When  the  duty  was  placed  upon  him  to  battle  for  the  liberties 
of  mankind,  he  dedicated  his  life  to  that  purpose,  and  in  due  time,  our 
Father  in  heaven  accepted  his  offering,  and  his  name  is  emblazoned 
upon  the  pages  of  history  as  a  great  and  noble  man  who  dared  to 
do  right,  and  his  praises  will  be  sung  and  his  virtues  extolled  through- 
out all  time. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


99 


FREE  AGENCY  OF  MAN 

It  was  the  Master  who  decreed  that  men  must  have  faith,  and  we 
are  told  that  without  faith  we  cannot  please  him.  It  was  the  Master 
Who  declared  that  all  men  must  repent,  and  sent  his  disciples  into 
the  world  to  cry  repentance.  It  was  the  Savior  who  gave  to  us  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  that  bears  his  name,  that  declared  that  all  men 
must  be  baptized.  It  was  the  same  blessed  Redeemer  who  said :  "If 
I  go  not  away,  the  Comforter  will  not  come,"  and  after  he  had  left 
them,  there  came  upon  his  disciples  the  Holy  Ghost.  Faith,  repent- 
ance, baptism  by  immersion,  (for  that  was  the  form  of  baptism  that 
our  Master  received)  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  as  taught  by  him,  are  the  requirements  in  his  Church  that  all 
men  must  subscribe  to  if  they  would  obtain  celestial  glory.  Men  may 
refuse  to  accept  this  opportunity.  We  have  our  agency  and  can 
please  ourselves,  but  the  Lord  says  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
93 :31 : 

"Behold,  here  is  the  agency  of  man,  and  here  is  the  condemnation  of 
man;  because  that  which  was  from  the  beginning  is  plainly  manifested  unto 
them,  and  they  receive  not  the  light." 

That  is  the  trouble  with  this  world — the  holy  scriptures  are  filled 
with  the  teachings  of  a  kind  and  merciful  Father  that  are  not  appre- 
ciated, and  today  there  are  hundreds  of  the  elders  of  this  Church 
going  to  and  fro  in  the  world,  pleading  for  a  hearing  that  they  may 
be  able  to  point  out  the  pathway  of  life  and  salvation.  This  is  our 
Father's  work.  The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  restored  to  the 
earth  for  the  last  time.  It  will  never  be  taken  away  or  given  to  an- 
other people,  and  upon  us  devolves  the  responsibility  and  obligation  to 
so  live  that  wherever  we  go,  or  whatever  we  do,  our  light  will  shine 
in  such  a  way  that  others,  observing  our  upright  lives,  will  be  con- 
strained to  seek  after  the  Redeemer  of  mankind,  and  to  become  identi- 
fied with  his  Church,  in  preparation  to  living  with  him  eternally. 

That  the  Lord  will  strengthen  our  hands;  that  our  voices  may 
be  made  powerful  in  truth ;  that  the  Holy  Ghost  may  remain  with 
the  elders  of  this  Church  to  inspire  them  to  greater  effort  that  to  the 
very  ends  of  the  earth  all  men  may  have  an  opportunity  to  know 
that  this  is  God's  work,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

I  never  felt  so  humble,  and  my  weakness  more  than  at  this  mo- 
ment. I  never  felt  better  in  the  work  of  the  Lord,  in  my  life,  than  I 
do  at  the  present  time.  I  have  never  enjoyed  a  general  conference  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  as  I  have  enjoyed  the 
present  one.  Beginning  with  that  remarkable  sermon  delivered  by  our 
President,  the  opening  day  of  the  conference,  down  through  all  of 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  speakers,  I  have  had  in  my  heart  an  echo  of  gladness  and  approval 
that  has  indeed  made  me  feel  that  life  is  worth  living. 

THE  TEACHINGS  OF  MOTHER 

I  do  not  know  why  it  is,  but  from  the  opening  session  of  this 
conference,  I  have  thought  of  my  mother,  perhaps  more  times,  from 
that  moment  until  this,  than  any  other  time  since  she  was  called  to 
the  beyond.  I  had  a  chance,  last  night  in  my  dreams,  to  thank  her — 
her  boy  thanked  her — for  the  teachings  that  she  gave  and  instilled  in 
my  heart  when  I  was  but  a  boy.  It  seems  that  I  can  hear  her  voice 
ringing  out  now ;  it  seemed  in  my  dreams  but  last  night  that  I  could 
hear  her  pleadings  to  me,  and  her  sound  counsel  and  wise  advice.  I 
remember  so'  well  that  she  used  to  impress  upon  me  that  no  person, 
whether  he  be  baptized  into  the  Church  or  not,  can  retain  a  testimony 
that  God  lives,  without  he  asks  of  Father  in  heaven,  in  humility  and 
prayer,  to  give  him,  and  help  him  maintain  that  testimony  and  the 
love  of  the  work.  She  used  to  tell  me  that  if  I  did  not  have  a  testi- 
mony, then,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  way  to  get  it  was  to  pray  to 
God  constantly  and  in  earnestness,  and  she  promised  me — my  mother 
promised  me, — that  the  Lord  God  would  give  it  to  me  in  due  time,  if 
I  kept  myself  unspotted  from  the  sins  of  the  world.  That  promise 
came  true,  not  perhaps  in  the  way  that  I  intended  it  should  come; 
not  in  the  way  that  I  expected  it  must  come,  to  satisfy  my  soul,  but 
it  came  in  God's  own  way,  and  there  is  nothing  that  I  appreciate  so 
much  in  all  the  world,  and  I  shall  never  cease  asking  my  God  to  help 
me  as  long  as  I  live,  to  maintain  that  testimony  and  be  true  to  God's 
work  and  cause  here  upon  this  earth. 

Her  slogan  was:  "Be  true  to  yourself,  be  true  to  your  country, 
and  be  true  to  your  God;  and  no  matter  what  happens  to  you,  the 
end  will  be  success."  I  hardly  understood  it  then.  I  did  not  know 
what  it  meant,  but,  thank  God,  I  know  what  it  means  today,  and  I 
testify  to  the  people  here,  and  in  all  the  world,  that  if  you  will  be  true 
to  yourself,  true  to  the  covenants  you  have  made  with  God,  true  to 
your  country,  there  can  be  no  danger  that  will  in  any  way,  shape  or 
form,  bar  you  from  receiving  the  blessings  of  God  and  the  plaudits 
of  all  honorable  men. 

POSITION  OF  THE  CHURCH  TOWARD  THE  GOVERNMENT  OF 
THE  UNITED  STATES 

When  President  Grant  was  reading  section  134  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  that  section  in  which  is  contained  the  declaration  of 
the  Church  regarding  our  obligations  to  our  government  and  the  laws 
of  the  same,  I  could  not  help  but  think  back  some  twenty  years — a 
mere  span  of  time — when  I  was  charged  with  being  disloyal  to  my 
government.  I  was  charged  with  taking  an  oath,  as  a  Senator  of 
the  United  States,  that  was  inconsistent  with  the  oath  that  I  had  taken 
as  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


101 


Nothing  ever  hurt  me  so  much.  I  knew,  in  my  soul,  that  I  would  give 
my  life,  not  only  for  my  Church  but  for  my  Country,  if  necessary.  I 
knew  there  was  no  man  living  that  was  more  loyal  to  the  constitution 
of  the  United  States,  her  laws,  her  institutions,  than  I,  unless  that 
man  had  greater  power  and  greater  wisdom  given  him.  And,  at  the 
hearings  of  the  case,  as  they  dragged  on  from  month  to  month,  and 
from  year  to  year,  I  remember  well  the  late  senator,  Philander  C. 
Knox,  of  Pennsylvania,  a  member  of  the  committee  on  Privileges  and 
Elections  of  the  Senate,  coming  to  me  one  morning  and  asking  me 
if  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  believed  in  our 
form  of  government.  I  told  the  senator  we  believed  that  the  con- 
stitution of  the  United  States  was  an  inspired  instrument  from  God ; 
we  believed  that  the  men  who  drafted  and  put  it  into  force  were  in- 
spired and  directed  by  the  overruling  hand  of  God.  He  said,  "Have 
you  any  declarations  to  show  your  belief?"  I  called  his  attention 
first  to  the  12th  article  of  our  faith.  I  read  it  to  him,  but  it  hardly 
satisfied  him — that  short  statement — and  he  asked  if  there  were  not 
some  written,  published  statement  of  the  Church,  showing  its  attitude 
toward  the  government  and  the  laws  of  our  land.  I  said:  "Senator 
Knox,  I  will  see  that  by  tomorrow  morning,  you  will  get  a  copy  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  I  ask  you  to  turn  to  section  134  and 
read  the  section,  and  you  will  find  there  a  clear,  concise,  straight- 
forward statement  of  the  position  of  the  'Mormon'  Church,  so-called, 
toward  the  government  of  the  United  States  and  the  laws  of  our 
country."  It  satisfied  him.  I  had  no  more  loyal  supporter  than  the 
senator  from  Pennsylvania. 

THE  POWER  OF  PRAYER 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  want  to  acknowledge  before  you  this 
day  that  during  all  of  that  troublesome  time,  I  recognized  the  hand 
of  God  in  it  all.  It  was  not  Reed  Smoot  that  they  were  fighting — it 
was  the  Church  of  God,  and  I  want  also  to  acknowledge  to  the  people 
here  today,  that  no  greater  power  came  to  me  from  any  source  than 
from  above,  through  the  constant  and  earnest  prayer  for  assistance 
from  above. 

I  wonder  whether  the  world  today  believes  in  prayer,  as  they  did 
in  the  early  days  of  our  country.  The  prayer  of  an  honest  man 
availeth  much.  I  wonder  whether  our  own  people  are  attending  to 
their  daily  prayers  as  was  their  wont  in  years  past.  Fathers  and 
mothers,  if  you  do  not  teach  the  children  how  to  pray,  and  if  you 
do  not  pray  yourselves,  there  will  be  unlocked  a  door  and  the  evil 
influence  of  the  powers  of  darkness  will  enter  the  home.  I  remember, 
when  I  was  a  counselor  in  the  Utah  stake  of  Zion,  although  there  were 
but  few  cases  of  trouble  between  the  wife  and  the  husband  that  ever 
came  before  the  Presidency  for  decision,  in  every  such  case,  it  de- 
veloped that  in  that  home  prayer  had  been  discontinued ;  and  I  plead 
with  the  people  here  that  they  not  only  pray  themselves,  but  that  they 
have  their  children  pray  as  well,  and  teach  them  how  to  pray. 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  cut  out  of  the  paper  yesterday  morning,  a  clipping  from  a 
Chicago  paper.  I  was  delighted  to  read  it,  and  I  am  going  to  read  a 
portion  of  it  now  to  you.    Perhaps  you  did  not  notice  it: 

"Consideration,  at  the  Protestant  Episcopal  Triennial  General 
Conference,  of  divine  healing,  and  the  question  of  giving  it  official 
sanction  as  a  part  of  church  work,  drew  attention  to  the  fact  that 
several  of  the  churches  in  the  Chicago  diocese  already  maintain  classes 
in  faith  healing.  Our  method  is  that  of  James,  the  Anglican  layman, 
who  conducted  meetings  of  healing  in  Chicago  a  few  years  ago  ;"  and 
then,  brothers  and  sisters,  it  goes  on  and  describes  what  they  are 
undertaking  to  do,  and  winds  up  by  saying  that  they  were  following 
the  plan  of  James — not  the  Apostle  James  of  old  but  James,  the 
Anglican  layman. 

They  deny  that  there  is  any  power  of  God  in  the  administration. 
I  thought  to  myself :  I  would  that  the  peoples  of  the  world  would  begin 
to  think  more  of  prayer  and  follow  the  teachings  of  the  Master — fol- 
low the  plan  laid  down  by  James,  in  the  days  of  the  Savior,  for  he 
says — "Is  any  sick  among  you?  Let  him  call  for  the  elders  of  the 
Church;  and  let  them  pray  over  him,  anointing  him  with  oil,  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord.  And  the  prayer  of  faith  shall  save  the  sick,  and 
the  Lord  shall  raise  him.  up,  and  if  he  have  committed  sins,  they  shall 
be  forgiven  him." 

A  RECENT  EXPERIENCE 

I  know  as  well  as  I  know  I  live  that  there  is  power  in  prayer. 
I  do  not  know  but  what  it  would  be  proper  for  me,  at  this  time,  to 
call  attention  to  an  experience  that  I  had  four  weeks  ago  today. 
Sunday  afternoon  I  called  at  the  White  House,  to  call  upon  the 
President.  For  days  Mrs.  Harding  had  been  lying  at  the  point  of 
death.  The  President  was  in  the  sick  room  when  I  arrived,  together 
with  Dr.  Mayhoe,  Dr.  Finney,  Dr.  Harding  and  some  three  or  four 
other  prominent  doctors.  The  attendant  announced  to  the  President 
that  I  had  called  to  see  him,  and  he  came  out  of  the  sick  room  into  his 
private  office  adjoining  the  sick  room.  He  had  been  watching  over 
Mrs.  Harding  for  days  and  nights  past,  seeing  each  day  bring  her 
nearer  to  the  brink  of  the  grave,  and  the  doctors  had  just  decided 
that  nothing  would  save  her  but  an  operation.  The  question  of 
the  operation  was  left  to  the  President  for  decision.  The  President 
said :  "I  have  never  had,  in  all  my  life,  a  question  brought  to  me  for 
decision  that  I  feel  so  helpless  in  arriving  at."  I  haven't  the  time  to 
go  into  the  details.  Worried  as  he  was,  haggard  as  he  was,  it  seemed 
to  me  if  any  word  of  encouragement  could  be  given  to  him,  it  ought 
to  have  been  given.  What  a  wonderful  woman  Mrs.  Harding  is,  lying 
upon  her  sick  bed  for  days.  When  Dr.  Finney  was  leaving  the  room, 
she  gave  orders  to  take  him  down  to  the  depot  in  the  President's  car, 
rather  than  send  for  one  himself ;  and,  while  the  President  and  I 
were  discussing  questions  affecting  legislation,  on  which  he  had  asked 
me  to  make  a  report  to  him,  and  just  as  I  was  about  to  leave,  the  at- 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


103 


tendant  brought  into  the  room  a  beautiful  box  of  roses,  stating  that 
Mrs.  Harding  had  directed  him  to  bring  them  to  me  to  deliver  to 
Mrs.  Smoot.  Nobody  thought  that  Mrs.  Harding  would  live  through 
the  night.  The  decision  as  to  an  operation  had  to  be  reached,  so  the 
President  told  me,  before  midnight;  and,  as  I  left  the  room,  he  came 
with  me  until  we  stood  at  the  head  of  the  stairs.  I  turned  to  the 
President  and  said,  "President,  there  is  hope  yet.  I  have  seen  men 
and  women  raised  from  a  death-bed.  I  know  that  there  is  power, 
Mr.  President,  in  prayer- — the  wife  can  yet  be  saved.  Do  not  be  dis- 
couraged." And  I  said,  "This  night  a  prayer  shall  go  up  from  my 
home,  that  God  may  spare  her  life,  that  she  will  not  have  to  under- 
go an  operation."  He  said  to  me :  "Senator  Smoot,  I  wish  I 
knew  that.  I  believe  in  prayer.  I  wish  I  knew  that  God  through 
prayer  would  heal  the  sick."  There  were  millions  of  people  praying 
for  her,  from  one  end  of  the  land  to  the  other,  but  as  those  noted 
physicians  sat  around  the  bed,  as  midnight  was  approaching,  there 
came  a  change.  God  had  heard  the  prayers  for  her  and  the  crisis 
had  passed. 

How  many  cases  could  we  relate,  testifying  to  just  such  power, 
and  I  hope  and  I  trust  that  we  will  never  forget  that  God  rules  the 
universe. 

The  other  day,  my  attention  was  called  to  a  wonderful  painting, 
the  author  of  which  was  Tompkins  H.  Mattson.  It  was  called  "The 
First  Prayer  in  Congress."  I  noticed  in  that  painting  that  a  majority 
of  all  the  members  of  that  first  congress  that  was  held  in  Carpenter 
Hall,  Philadelphia,  September  5,  1774,  were  kneeling  in  prayer,  and 
among  those  who  Were  kneeling,  I  noticed  George  Washington,  Pat- 
rick Henry,  John  Rutledge,  Col.  Folsom,  Payton  Randolph,  Richard 
Henry  Lee,  John  Jay,  Isaac  Lowe — some  of  the  most  renowned  Amer- 
ican citizens  that  ever  lived. 

A  WARNING  TO  VIOLATORS  OF  THE  LAW 

I  wish  now  just  in  a  few  words,  in  closing,  for  I  see  the  time  is 
past,  to  say  that  the  laws  of  the  land  must  be  obeyed  and  enforced.  I 
want  to  warn  law  makers ;  I  want  to  warn  business  men ;  I  want  to 
warn  the  wealthy  of  the  United  States,  that  they  cannot  violate  the 
law  with  impunity.  Some  time  in  the  future,  their  actions  will 
arise  to  plague  them.  Men  cannot  serve  liquors  of  all  kinds  at  their 
dinners — not  only  in  violation  of  the  law  on  the  part  of  the  party  that 
sold  the  liquor  to  them,  but  in  violation  of  the  law  on  their  own  part — ■ 
without,  sooner  or  later,  paying  the  penalty.  Violation  of  the  law 
is  the  first  step  to  anarchy,  and  don't  let  us  think  that  the  man  who 
has  no  regard  for  law,  no  love  for  the  constitution  of  the  United 
States — an  outcast  in  all  society — can  see  the  violation  of  laws,  on  the 
part  of  legislators,  the  wealthy  of  the  land,  and  not  take  advantage 
of  the  same  by  offering  it  as  an  excuse  for  his  actions.  So,  my 
brothers  and  sisters,  I  ask  you  to  be  loyal,  not  only  to  the  constitution, 
but  the  laws  of  our  land. 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  it  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation."  I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know  that 
this  is  his  Church.  I  know  that  all  he  has  predicted  will  come  to  pass, 
if  we  are  but  loyal  and  true  and  sustain  his  work  here  upon  this 
earth. 

God  bless  you  all.  Amen. 

The  choir,  with  Miss  Dolores  Seal,  soprano,  as  soloist,  sang,  "In- 
flammatus." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  John  V.  Bluth,  president 
of  the  North  Weber  stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


FIRST  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

An  overflow  meeting  of  the  Conference  was  held  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  at  10  o'clock,  Sunday  morning,  October  8.  Elder  Rulon  S. 
Wells,  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  presided. 

The  music  and  singing  were  furnished  by  the  Twenty-first  ward 
choir,  Salt  Lake  City;  Elder  Walter  A.  Wallace,  leader;  with  Elder 
Tracy  Y.  Cannon  at  the  organ. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "High  on  the  mountain  top." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Elias  A.  Smith. 

The  choir  sang,  "Glorious  things  of  thee  are  spoken,  Zion,  city 
of  our  God !" 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH  ; 

(Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  of  the  Church.) 

Those  who  have  been  called  upon  to  speak  during  this  confer- 
ence have  dwelt  upon  subjects  which  to  them  seem  most  important. 
Each  man  who  feels  his  responsibility  is  anxious  for  the  cooperation 
and  help  of  the  Church  members.  I  sincerely  hope  that  I  may  be 
assisted  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  delivering  to  you  the  message  I 
have  in  my  heart. 

The  Apostle  James  counseled  us  as  follows : 

"Every  good  gift  and  every  perfect  gift  is  from  above,  and  cometh 
down  from  the  Father  of  lights,  with  whom  is  no  variableness,  neither 
shadow  of  turning.  Of  his  own  will  begat  he  us  with  the  word  of  truth, 
that  we  .  should  be  a  kind  of  firstfruits  of  his  creatures.  Wherefore,  my 
beloved  brethren,  let  every  man  be  swift  to  hear,  slow  to  spelak,  slow  to 
wrath:  for  the  wrath  of  man  worketh  not  the  righteousness  of  God.  Where- 
fore lay  apart  all  filthiness  and  superfluity  of  naughtiness,  and'  receive 
with  meekness  the  engrafted  word  which  is  able  to  save  your  souls.  But 
be  ye  doers  of  the  word,  arid  not  hearers  only,  deceiving  your  own  selves. 
For  if  any  be  a  hearer  of  the  word,  and  not  a  doer,  he  is  like  unto  a  man 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH  105 

\ 

beholding  his  natural  face  in  a  glass:  For  he  beholdeth  himself,  and 
goeth  his  way,  and  straightway  forgetteth  what  manner  of  man  he  was. 
But  whoso  looketh  into  the  perfect  law  of  liberty,  and  continueth  therein, 
he  being  not  a  forgetful  bearer,  but;  a  doer  of  the  work,  this  man  shall  be 
blessed  in  his  deed.  If  any  man  among  you  seem  to  be  religious,  and 
bridleth  not  his  tongue,  but  deceiveth  his  own  heart,  this  man's  religion  is 
vain.  Pure  religion  and  undefiled  before  God  and  the  Father  is  this,  To 
visit  the  fatherless  and  widows  in  their  affliction,  and  to  keep  himself 
unspotted  from  the  world." 

What  a  blessing  it  would  be  if  we  could  only  remember  and 
obey  this  counsel.  It  is  a  common  thing  for  one  to  find  grounds  for 
criticising  others,  and  how  seldom  db  we  make  a  careful  examination 
of  our  own  lives,  with  a  view  to  correcting  our  own  faults. 

This  was  forcibly  impressed  upon  me  the  other  day  when,  upon 
returning  to  Salt  Lake  City  from  the  north,  where  I  had  been  with 
a  number  of  Salt  Lake  business  men,  I  made  the  remark  in  the  pres- 
ence of  President  Grant,  that  we  had  covered  the  distance  in  very 
fast  time ;  a  time  which  far  exceeded  the  speed  allowed  by  law.  His 
reply  was :  "How  foolish  we  are.  We  get  up  in  the  morning  and  pray 
that  God  will  protect  us  during  the  day,  and  then  go  straightway 
and  do  things  we  know  to  be  foolish  and  dangerous."  I  answered 
that  with  a  high-powered,  heavy  car,  forty  or  fifty  miles  does  not 
seem  fast.  "No,"  said  he,  "but  if  you  should  hit  a  telegraph  pole  you 
would  know  how  fast  it  is." 

I  have  been  unable  to  get  away  from  this  thought.  How  many  of 
us  fail  to  prove  by  our  life's  work  that  we  are  doing  our  part  toward 
the  protection  of  our  own  lives,  as  well  as  to  protect  and  elevate  those 
who  have  an  equal  right  with  us  to  live  and  enjoy  happiness.  Some- 
times this  is  only  impressed  upon  us  when  we,  figuratively  speaking, 
hit  a  telegraph  pole,  or  some  other  object,  thus  doing  injury,  not  only 
to  ourselves  but  to  others. 

I  imagine  that  we  have  improved  very  little  since  the  days  of 
Nephi,  and  that  perhaps  we  are  living  in  the  day  he  spoke  of,  when  he 
said,  "In  that  day  there  shall  be  many  which  shall  say,  eat,  drink  and 
be  merry,  for  tomorrqw  we  die,  and  it  shall  be  well  with  us ;  and 
there  shall  also  be  many  which  shall  say,  eat,  drink  and  be  merry,  never- 
theless fear  God ;  he  will  justify  in  committing  a  little  sin.  Yea,  lie 
a  little,  take  the  advantage  of  one  because  of  his  words,  dig  a  pit  for 
thy  neighbor;  there  is  no  harm  in  this;  and  do  all  these  things,  for 
tomorrow  we  die ;  and  if  it  so  be  that  we  are  guilty,  God  will  beat  us 
with  a  few  stripes  and  at  last  we  shall  be  saved  in  the  Kingdom  of 
God." 

We  have  been  warned  time  and  time  again  that  God's  blessings 
are  dependent  upon  the  fulfilment  of  his  law;  to  receive  his  promise 
we  must  comply  with  the  law.  For  the  purpose  of  helping  us  to 
understand  and  prepare  more  fully  to  comply  with  the  law,  we  have 
had  given  to  us  certain  organizations. 

During  this  conference  considerable  has  been  said  concerning  the 
work  of  the  Mutual  Improvement  Association.    Brother  Lyman  ap- 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


pealed  especially  to  the  members  of  the  Church  to  encourage  young 
men  between  the  ages  of  seventeen  to  twenty-three  to  become  active  in 
the  Mutual  Improvement  Association.  Dr.  Widtsoe  spoke  on  the 
great  work  being  accomplished  by  our  Church  school  system.  These 
organizations  are  necessary  and  very  helpful,  but  in  my  opinion  the 
main  responsibility  for  the  training  of  young  men  in  this  Church, 
rests  upon  the  Priesthood  organizations,  which  is  God's  plan,  "which 
Priesthood  continueth  in  the  Church  of  God  in  all  generations  and  is 
without  beginning  of  days  or  end  of  years." 

At  times  man  seems  to  feel  that  he  can  improve  upon  God's  plan, 
and  in  his  anxiety  to  do  so  may  overlook  the  greater  object  in  his  en- 
deavor to  see  his  own  work  succeed.  The  auxiliary  organizations  and 
Church  schools  are  in  the  Church  as  helps  in  government ;  stepping- 
stones  in  the  Priesthood, — the  final  reward  is  to  come  to  man  through 
his  Priesthood  activities. 

In  considering  these  organizations  we  must  not  overlook  the 
value  and  importance  of  home  training,  for,  after  all,  it  is  in  the 
tender  years  that  habits  are  formed  that  have  a  great  influence  in 
directing  the  lives  of  God's  children.  We  have  the  Primary,  kinder- 
garten, Religion  class  and  Sunday  school,  which  are  given  to  us  for 
the  purpose  of  helping  to  train  children  during  these  tender  years, 
and  sometimes  I  wonder  if  parents  are  content  to  leave  the  training  of 
their  children  wholly  with  these  organizations.  The  age  of  twelve 
has  been  fixed  as  about  the  time  a  young  man  should  be  prepared  to 
receive  the  Aaronic  Priesthood — the  first  step  in  authority  in  God's 
great  work.    How  wonderful  is  his  great  plan,  and  yet  how  simple. 

The  child  when  born  into  the  world  learns  largely  from  observ- 
ing others.  It  sees  its  parents  or  brothers  and  sisters  do  things  and 
makes  an  attempt  to  imitate  them.  By  untiring  effort  it  learns  to'  do 
the  things  it  sees  them  do,  and  learns  to  repeat  the  words  they  en- 
courage it  to  speak;  thus  step  by  step  it  grows  and  develops  and  be- 
comes less  dependent  upon  them,  although  their  life  and  actions  have 
exerted  an  influence,  and  has  so  impressed  the  child  that  this  influ- 
ence, whether  good  or  bad,  will  thereafter  have  its  effect  upon  the 
child's  life. 

As  a  deacon  in  the  Church,  the  boy  is  given  his  first  experience  in 
Church  government.  As  the  baby  learns  through  observation,  the 
deacon  learns  to  do  by  doing.  His  duties  require  that  he  perform 
outward  ordinances,  such  as  passing  the  Sacrament,  visiting  the  homes 
of  the  members  for  the  purpose  of  collecting  fast  offerings,  or  to  dis- 
tribute substance  to  the  poor.  He  may  go  upon  errands  for  the 
bishop,  act  as  usher,  and  should  at  all  times  be  made  to  understand 
that  he  should  have  reverence  and  respect  for  the  House  of  the 
Lord. 

Think  of  the  effect  of  this  work  upon  a  young  man  just  com- 
mencing his  labor  in  the  Priesthood.  Think  of  the  strength  that  comes 
to  him  in  knowing  that  he  is,  in  a  sense,  custodian  of  the  Lord's 
properties.    Think  of  the  joy  that  should  come  to  him  in  assisting  to 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


107 


comfort  the  poor  and  needy  and  those  in  distress.  Think  what 
might  happen  in  the  life  of  this  young  man,  when  passing  the  Sacra- 
ment he  sees  a  brother  or  sister  partake  of  the  Sacrament,  or  perhaps 
his  own  parents,  and  knows  at  the  time,  that  those  parents  are  not 
keeping  the  commandments  of  God,  and  are  breaking  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  Think  of  the  effect  upon  a  young  man,  after  having  seen 
a  brother  partake  of  the  Sacrament,  and  then  that  afternoon  or  the 
following  day  to  see  him  smoking  a  cigar  or  cigarette  or  profaning 
the  name  of  the  Lord.  Do  these  acts  have  a  tendency  to  create 
in  the  life  of  the  boy  a  spirit  of  respect  and  reverence  for  this  ordin- 
ance ?  Or  do  they  have  a  tendency  to  make  them  mechanical  with 
him,  and  thus  cause  him  to  lose  his  respect  for  this  ordinance,  and 
his  interest  in  the  work  he  should  be  performing  as  a  servant  of  the 
Lord? 

Can  a  young  man  of  this  age,  the  age  when  his  life  is  being 
molded  for  good  or  bad,  hear  his  parents  complain  of  the  bishop, 
the  president  of  the  stake,  or  the  general  authorities  of  the  Church, 
and  have  the  respect  for  these  men  he  should  be  taught  to  have  ?  Oh, 
how  different  it  would  be  if  all  these  influences  were  for  good,  and 
the  purpose  of  encouraging  the  young  man  to  greater  faithfulness  in 
the  Church,  and  to  create  a  greater  spirit  of  reverence  and  a  desire 
to  become  more  active  in  his  labors  as  an  officer  in  the  Church.  To 
taste  the  sweetness  of  service,  under  the  constant  encouragement  of 
members  of  the  Church  would  bring  to  the  young  man  of  this  age 
a  safeguard  that  would  be  everlasting,  and  would  help  to  prepare 
him  for  the  next  step  in  authority  which  comes  with  the  ordination 
to  the  office  of  teacher. 

Often  I  have  wondered  if  the  members  of  the  Church  really 
grasped  the  importance  of  this  office  and  the  magnitude  of  its  pos- 
sibilities. Many  times  have  I  heard  men  holding  the  holy  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  refuse  to  be  burdened  in  their  labors  with  a  young  man 
whom  they  thought  was  poorly  prepared  to  labor  in  the  Church  as 
a  teacher.  I  have  heard  them  say,  Of  what  real  use  in  the  teaching 
corps  is  a  young  man  of  fifteen  or  sixteen?  When  it  has  been  pos- 
sible to  answer  these  queries,  I  have  referred  to  the  fact  that  at  this 
age  Joseph  Smith  went  into  the  woods  to  pray,  and  in  answer  to  his 
prayer,  through  his  faithfulness,  received  the  visitation  from  the 
Father  and  the  Son.  At  this  age,  the  late  President  Joseph  F  .Smith 
was  sent  to  the  Islands  of  the  Sea  to  preach  the  gospel.  At  twelve 
the  Savior  heard  and  asked  questions  of  the  doctors,  and  declared 
he  must  be  about  his  Father's  business. 

Have  we  ever  stopped  to  consider  that  the  mission  of  the  teacher 
is  not  to  preach  or  to  teach  the  people  concerning  the  principles  of 
the  gospel,  but  that  his  duty  is,  "to  watch  over  the  Church  always, 
and  be  with  and  strengthen  them,  and  see  that  there  is  no  iniquity  in 
the  Church,  neither  hardness  with  each  other,  neither  lying,  backbiting, 
nor  evil  speaking,  and  see  that  the  Church  meet  together  often,  and 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


also  see  that  all  the  members  do  their  duty."  This  requirement,  to 
my  mind,  fixes  the  home  as  the  training  ground  for  young  men  just 
beginning  their  ministry  among  the  people.  Think  of  the  influence  up- 
on a  young  man  to  know  and  to  be  encouraged  to  feel  that  his  mis- 
sion is  to  watch  over  the  Church  always — not  to  labor  with  the  out- 
sider, with  those  who  are  unfriendly  or  unsympathetic,  but  to  "watch 
over  the  Church,  and  be  with  and  strengthen  them,  and  see  that  there 
is  no  iniquity  in  the  Church,  neither  hardness  with  each  other,  neither 
lying,  backbiting  nor  evil  speaking." 

Can  a  young  man  of  the  age  of  fifteen  to  seventeen  years  enter 
the  homes  of  members  of  the  Church  and  there  find  that  the  mem- 
bers of  those  homes  are  keeping  the  commandments  of  God,  and  are 
complying  with  this  requirement,  and  go  from  those  homes  and  en- 
gage in  doing  the  things  he  knows  to  be  wrong,  and  which  will  bring 
reproach  upon  him,  and  lessen  his  influence  to  do  good  in  the  office 
to  which  he  has  been  called?  Think  what  a  wonderful  opportunity  of 
training  and  helping  to  fix  indelibly  upon  the  mind  of  the  young  man 
God's  purposes  and  promises  through  the  encouragement  he  may  re- 
ceive from  members  of  the  Church.  And  again,  think  of  the  dis- 
couragement that  may  come  when  he  sees  that  members  of  .the  Church 
are  giving  very  little  thought  to  these  matters,  and  criticize  the  actions 
of  the  Church  officers  in  calling  boys  of  this  age  to  this  important 
work.  If  we  engage  in  this  we  have  not  hearkened  to  the  words  of 
the  Apostle  James  to  "lay  apart  all  filthiness  and  superfluity  of 
naughtiness,  and  receive  with  meekness  the  engrafted  word,  which  is 
able  to  save  your  souls."  We  are  not  doers  of  the  word  but  hearers 
only,  deceiving  our  own  selves,  and  we  cause  the  young  man  thus  dis- 
couraged to  look,  as  it  were,  in  the  glass,  wherein  he  sees  the  pic- 
ture we,  in  our  distorted  condition  of  mind,  picture  him  to  be,  rather 
than  the  servant  of  the  living  God  he  was  intended  to  be.  .  It  is 
through  this  discouragement,  I  believe,  that  so  many  of  our  young 
men  withdraw  from  Church  activity  and  fail  to  measure  up  to  the 
requirements  of  the  Priesthood. 

The  next  step  in  authority  is  the  office  of  priest.  The  young 
man,  after  having  received  his  training  as  a  deacon  and  teacher,  is  re- 
quired, to  "Preach,  teach,  expound,  exhort,  and  baptize,  and  ad- 
minister the  sacrament,  and  visit  the  house  of  each  member,  and 
exhort  them  to  pray  vocally  and  in  secret,  and  attend  to  all  family 
duties."  Thus  as  his  experience  increases,  his  opportunity  for  ser- 
vice increases,  his  labors  being  with  the  members  of  the  Church 
where,  .through  their  example  and  help  he  can  grow  and  develop  into 
a  useful  instrument  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  to  deliver  his  word  to 
those  who  are  unfriendly  and  know  not  of  the  plan  of  salvation.  What 
a  wonderful  opportunity  is  a  here  given  to  the  Church  in  laying  the 
foundation  for  the  future  usefulness  of  God's  children.  You  can  see 
that  the  responsibility  of  carrying  on  this  work,  and  of  making  God's 
plan  serve  its  purpose,  rests  .mainly  upon  the  members  of  the  Church : 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


109 


that  the  ward  bishopric  is  the  guiding  hand  for  them,  standing  as  the 
presidency  of  the  Lesser  Priesthood. 

Do  we  as  ^parents,  as  members  of  the  Church,  fully  realize  the 
responsibility  that  rests  upon  us?  Are  we  teaching  our  boys  and  girls 
in  their  youth  to  respect  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  and  to  labor 
diligently  and  faithfully  in 'the  office  and  calling  whereunto  they  have 
been  called,  where  they  can  learn  the  joy  of  service  and  feel  the  love 
that  comes  through  a  united  effort  in  the  service  of  the  Lord  ?  Are 
we  paying  our  tithes  and  our  offerings  ?  Are  we  providing  the  way 
by  which  our  children  can  learn  in  their  youth  to  obey  the  command- 
ment of  the  Lord,  that  we  remember  him  with  our  tithes  and  our 
offerings?  I  often  recall  the  words  of  the  Psalmist:  "The  earth  is 
the  Lord's,  and  the  fulness  thereof;  the  world,  and  they  that  dwell 
therein.  For  he  hath  founded  it  upon  the  seas,  and  established  it 
upon  the  floods.  Who  shall  ascend  into  the  hill  of  the  Lord,  or  who 
shall  stand  in  his  holy  place?  He  that  hath  clean  hands,  and  a  pure 
heart,  who  hath  not  lifted  up  his  soul  unto  vanity,  nor  sworn  deceit- 
fully. He  shall  receive  the  blessing  from  the  Lord,  and  righteousness 
from  the  God  of  his  salvation." 

I  pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  in  humility,  we  will  take 
advantage  of  the  opportunity  God  has  given  to  us  for  the  training  of 
young  men  who  are  called  to  positions  in  the  Lesser  Priesthood,  and 
feel  fully  the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  us  in  carrying  on  this 
great  work.  May  God  give  us  strength  and  determination  to  do  our 
part,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

Th,is  great  gathering  of  people  is  a  lesson  to  me  in  faith.  You 
have  come  up  to  conference  to  give  your  time  in  listening  to  the  prin- 
ciples of  life  and  salvation.  From  all  parts  of  the  state  and  all  the 
West,  you  congregate  twice  a  year  on  this  Temple  Block  wrjth  the 
spirit  of  worship  in  your  hearts-  What  a  wonderful  thing  it  is  to  go 
to  the  "holy  altar  of  God  and  pay  your  devotions."  In  ancient  days, 
the  Jews  went  to  their  temples  to  worship  God,  and  in  the  days  of 
Christ,  his  followers  came  together  to  give  unto  each  other  the  "light 
of  ihe  Spirit."  Today  this  Temple  Block  has  become  a  gathering 
place  for  the  worship  of  the  Most  High  God.  To  me  the  place  is  very 
sacred.  Here  we  have  the  temple,  which  is  the  symbol  of  eternal  life, 
for  therein  many  hundreds  of  God's  children  are  being  directed  to  eter- 
nal truth-  It  took  many  years  to  build  the  temple.  In  fact,  it  was 
erected  by  a  people  who  were  compelled  to  toil  and  learn  life's  mean- 
ing by  the  anguish  of  their  souls.  The  people  who  created  that  holy 
temple  did  so  by  work  and  faith,  and  they  knew  full  well  that  work 
with  faith  in  Christ  Jesus  would  accomplish  anything.  That  build- 
ing is  the  symbol  of  strength ;  it  is  the  expression  of  the  ideals  of  a 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


great  people  who  are  building  and  working  with  their  eyes  lifted  to 
God.   It  should  always  inspire  us  to  great  ideals. 

Then  think  of  the  tabernacle.  Do  you  know  something  of  its  his- 
tory? It  was  built  before  the  railroad  came  to  our  doors.  It,  too, 
is  an  expression  of  great  ideals  and  hard  work.  You  assemble  there 
to  hear  God's  word ;  you  go  there  with  the  spirit  of  reverence  and 
worship. 

The  tabernacle  is  indicative  of  the  strength  of  character  and  re- 
ligious dreams  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  The  only  building  of  its 
style  in  the  world,  stands  out  as  unique  in  the  history  of  architecture. 
While  its  massiveness  suggests  a  people  strong  in  spirit,  conviction, 
and  purpose,  its  lines  indicate  a  splendid  adaptation  of  scientific  prin- 
ciples in  architecture.  The  tabernacle  is  a  perfect  ellipse,  with  focuses, 
which  partly  account  for  the  good  acoustics  of  the  building.  A  plain, 
egg-shaped  building,  "studded  with  heavy  entrance  doors  all  the  way 
'round"  there  is  no  attempt  at  ornamentation  of  any  kind,  and  yet 
the  building  is  wonderful  both  on  the  exterior  as  well  as  in  the  inte- 
rior, and  is  an  example  of  the  utilizing  of  the  resources  of  the  people 
for  the  purpose  of  elevating  their  intellectual  and  religious  idealism. 
The  tabernacle  impresses  one  as  a  great,  immense,  irresistible  force, 
"humanly  .superhuman,"  an  expression  of  sovereign  intelligence.  It  is 
the  acme  of  usefulness  as  a  building;  it  is  wonderfully  artistic.  It  is 
as  the  great  Ibsen  has  declared  of  all  art,  "an  illuminjation  of  life." 

The  pioneers  who  erected  the  Tabernacle  were  a  high  minded 
people.  From  the  innermost  depths  of  their  souls,  they  gave  their 
children  a  fine  idealism  of  life  and  its  meaning  which  they  hold  sacred 
today.  Their  ideals  found  expression  in  venerable  and  lofty  institutions, 
and  they  contributed  to  the  religious  and  intellectual,  the  ethical  and 
civic  life  of  the  age.  They  madeihomes  and  turned  the  arid  waste  of 
the  far  West  into  beautiful  private  gardens-  They  built  institutions 
of  learning,  and  did  much  to  improve  the  prevailing  order  of  their 
day.  They  built  houses  of  worship  and  fostered  the  drama  and  art,  and 
out  of  that  time  of  vitality  and  isocjial  virility,  they  constructed  their 
great  tabernacle,  a  building  that  commands  the  respect  of  all  people 
who  see  it. 

The  tabernacle  is  one  of  the  largest  auditoriums  in  the  world,  and 
seats  from  six  to  eight  thousand  people.  It  is  250  feet  long  by  150 
feet  wide,  and  80  feet  in  height-  The  self-supporting  roof  rests  upon 
pillars  or  buttresses  of  red  sandstone,  which  are  from  ten  to  twelve 
feet  apart  in  the  entire,  circumference  of  the  building.  These  but- 
tresses support  good  wooden  arches,  which  span  150  feet.  The  arches 
are  of  a  lattice  truss  construction,  and  are  held  together  with  great 
wooden  pegs  and  bindings  of  cowhide.  On  the  interior  one  is  im- 
pressed with  the  great  vaulted  ceiling,  and  "the  vastness  of  the  place 
grows  upon  one  and  inspires  one  with  mingled  feeling  of  solemnity  and 
admiration." 

The  immense  roof,  which  is  the  principal  portion  of  the  build- 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


111 


ing,  rests  upon  forty-four  piers  of  cut  sandstone  masonry,  each  nine 
feet  from  the  outside  to  the  inside  of  the  building,  three  feet  in  thick- 
ness, and  twenty  feet  in  height.  On  each  s)ide  of  the  building  are  nine 
pillars  in  a  straight  line-  From  these  an  arch  of  forty-eight  feet  is 
sprung.  Thirteen  arches  spring  at  each  end  from  thirteen  piers,  which 
stand  on  a  circle.  The  height  from  the  floor  to  the  ceiling,  in  the 
center  of  the  building,  is  70  feet.  Between  the  ceiling  and  the  roof, 
there  is  a  space  of  nine  feet.  The  roof  is  framed  of  lattice-arched 
bents,  twelve  feet  from  center  to  center,  each  arch  converging  and 
meeting  at  the  highest  given  pdint  of  the  main  outside  bents,  where 
they  are  securely  fastened  with  cowhide  and  wooden  pegs.  On  the 
north  and  south  sides  are  thirty  spaces  between  the  piers,  where  the 
windows,  containing  over  2,500  lights  of  glass,  are  placed.  In  twelve 
of  the  spaces  are  the  doors  opening  outward,  which  affords  ready 
egress  from  the  building.  There  are  four  small  doors  in  the  west  end 
of  the  building,  and  two  large  ones  in  the  east  end,  leading  to  the 
gallery. 

Above  the  piers  are  over  one  million  feet  of  timber;  in  the  floor, 
80,000  feet;  in  the  joists,  100,000  feet;  in  the  sleepers,  30,000  feet;  in 
the  doors,  stand,  benches,  and  other  equipment,  290,000  feet ;  in  the  ag- 
gregate 1,500,000  feet.  The  roof  was  originally  covered  with  nearly 
400,000  shingles,  but  these  were  replaced  in  1900  by  a  metallic  cover- 
ing weighing  many  tons. 

Something  now  about  the  great  organ. 

In  the  early  sixties,  Mr.  Joseph  Ridges  was  selected  by  Presi- 
dent Brigham  Young  to  build  an  organ  in  the  tabernacle,  and  the  idea 
was  endorsed  by  other  citizens,  among  whom  were  David  O.  Calder, 
Dariiel  H.  Wells,  George  A.  Smith,  Alexander  C.  Pyper,  and  Dr.  J. 
M.  Benedict.  After  submitting  preliminary  drafts  to  President  Young 
and  his  counselors,  Mr-  Ridges  began  making  arrangements  for  the 
construction  of  the  instrument,  and  was  assisted  by  his  associates, 
Shure  Olsen,  Niels  Johnson,  Henry  Taylor,  Frank  Woods,  and  others. 
Meetings  were  held  with  these  men  almost  daily,  and  the  reports  of 
each  man's  work  were  listened  to.  While  one  was  collecting  various 
specimens  of  wood  from  the  canyons  of  Utah,  another  was  devising 
good  tools  to  work  the  wood  with,  while  still  a  third  man  was  experi- 
menting in  making  glue.  So  the  preliminary  work  went  on.  Specimens 
of  wood  were  sent  by  the  colonists  from  all  over  Utah,  and  it  was 
finally  decided  that  the  best  wood  was  found  in  the  hills  around  Par- 
owan  and  in  Pine  Valley,  more  than  300  miles  south  of  Salt  'Lake 
City.  It  was  a  fine  grain  of  the  white  pine  variety,  free  from  knots 
and  without  much  pitch  or  gum.  For  the  large  pipes,  it  was  especially 
well  adapted. 

The  larger  pipes,  some  of  which  measure  thirty-two  feet,  required 
thousands  of  feet  of  timber,  all  of  which  was  sawed  on  the  ground 
where  the  trees  were  cut  down.  Over  the  long,  lonely  roads  trudged 
the  oxen  day  by  day,  hauling  the  heavy  logs  to  Salt  Lake  City.  At 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


times  there  were  as  many  as  twenty  large  wagons,  each  with  three 
yoke  of  oxen  drawing  its  load.  The  roads  were  rough  and  dusty, 
and  many  streams  had  to  be  bridged,  that  the  wagons  could  pass  over 
without  difficulty.  In  crossing  one  stream  in  southern  Utah  the  logs 
were  let  down  over  the  bank  with  ropes  and  the  oxen  driven  some 
miles  to  find  a  ford,  where  they  crossed  and  followed  on  down  the 
bank  to  pick  up  the  wagons  and  loads  again.  The  timber  was  fjinally 
landed  in  Salt  Lake  City.  Another  important  necessity  for  making 
the  pipes  was  glue.  This  was  made  of  hundreds  of  cattle  hides  as  well 
as  buffalo  skins,  by  boiling  the  strips  in  large  pots  over  fires. 

The  organ  was  begun  in  January,  1866.  About  one  hundred  men 
were  employed  constantly  in  its  construction,  and  it  was  dedicated  in 
October,  1867. 

Just  outside  this  building — the  Assembly  Hall — is  the  Gull  Mon- 
ument. It  is  one  of  the  most  beautiful  specimens  of  sculpture  ever  ex- 
ecuted in  America-  The  sculptor  was  Mahonri  Young,  a  grandson 
of  President  Brigham  Young.  Critics  of  art  have  pronounced  it  a  dis- 
tinct contribution  to  the  world's  sculpture.  It  commemorates  the  sav- 
ing of  the  wheat  fields  in  the  spring  of  1848  by  the  gulls.  Have  you 
ever  carefully  studied  the  bronze  tablets  on  the  four  sides  of  the  base  ? 
I  call  your  attention  to;  the  one  on  the  south  in  particular.  It  shows 
how  the  woman,  the  mother  remaining  true  to  her  work,  and  expressing 
her  instincts  is  looking  up  to  the  sky  with  sublime  faith  on  her  face. 
The  gulls  are  wending  their  way  over  the  fields  from  the  Great  Salt 
Lake,  and  are  to  pounce  on  the  crickets,  destroy  them,  and  thus  save 
the  crops.  The  mother's  look  is  one  of  sublime  trust  that  all  will  be 
well.  She  is  the  mother,  the  pioneer  mother,  who  over  unknown  trails 
has  passed  on  to  the  new  land  with  the  joy  of  God's  Spirit  in  her  soul. 
The  monument  is  the  embodiment  of  an  ideal,  the  family  life  of  early- 
day  Utah. 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  this  Temple  Block  is  worthy  of  your 
coming-  It  is  the  symbol  of  God's  holy  place  where  he  may  be  wor- 
shiped in  spirit  and  in  truth.  To  these  grounds  we  must  all  bring 
the  spirit  of  worship ;  and  then,  as  we  leave  them,  to  go  our  way  in 
life,  we  will  have  a  spirit  of  life  ever-lasting;  a  soul  full  of  light  and 
happiness.  To  me  the  Temple  Block  is  a  symbol  of  beauty,  tight, 
and  life  everlasting. 

A  solo,  "Within  the  sacred  house,"  was  sung  by  Walter  A.  Wallace. 

ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

{Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

Among  the  number  of  the  inspiring  songs  to  which  we  have  list- 
ened during  this  Conference  was  one  sung  yesterday,  a  favorite  of  the 
late  Theodore  Roosevelt : 

"How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the  Lord, 
f, :  Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  his  excellent  word." 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


113 


I  thought  how  firm  a  foundation  for  personal  and  national  righteous- 
ness is  being  laid  during  this  Conference.  I  think  it  is  well  that  the 
brethren  have  said  what  they  have  of  the  great  charter  of  American 
liberty,  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States.  It  is  no  new  theme  in 
the  Church.  Elder  Orson  Pratt  referred  to  it  as  "established  as 
firmly  as  the  rock  of  ages."  Elder  Parley  P.  Pratt  said:  "The 
longer  I  live  and  the  more  acquainted  I  am  with  men  and  things,  the 
more  I  realize  that  the  instrument  called  the  Constitution  of  American 
liberty  was  certainly  dictated  by  the  spirit  of  wisdom,  by  the  spirit  of 
unparalleled  liberty  and  by  a  spirit  of  political  utility."  The  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  said  that  it  was  "a  glorious  standard."  He  compared 
it  to  a  great  tree  whose  branches  were  broad  enough  to  shelter  people 
of  all  classes ;  "the  'Mormons'  as  well  as  Presbyterians  and  every  other 
denomination  have  equal  rights  to  partake  of  the  fruits  of  this  great 
tree  of  our  national  liberty."  In  view  of  the  emphasis  laid  by  President 
Grant  and  other  speakers  upon  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States, 
it  will  be  timely  to  read  the  words  iof  one  Judge  Marshall,  of  Wiscon- 
sin, in  a  modern  decision ;  he  wrote : 

"At  no  period  has  appreciation  of  the  great  work  of  the  fathers  bee'^i 
more  important  than  now  [referring,  of  course,  to  the  framers  of  the 
Constitution].  We  need  to  sit  anew  at  their  feet — revive  knowledge  that 
the  result  was  wrought  by  a  body  of  men,  representatives  of  the  great 
seats  of  learning  of  the  English  speaking  race  of  two  hemispheres,  and  other- 
wise men  of  broad  -experience,  many  of  whom  had  been  students  o'f  all 
federal  governments  of  all  prior  ages  in  preparation  for  the  special  task — as 
the  historian  declared,  'the  goodliest  fellowship  of  lawgivers  whereof  this 
world  has  record' — a  body  dominated  by  specialists,  inspired  by  ennobling 
love  fon  their  fellow  men,  and  the  thought  that  they  wrought,  not  for 
their  age  alone,  but  for  the  ages  to  come,  and,  so,  sought  to  avoid  the 
infirmities  of  previous  systems  of  government  by  the  people,  by  carefully 
providing  that  no  change  in  letter  or  spirit  should  occur  except  in  a 
particular  and  most  deliberate  and  conservative  way." 

The  document  has  been  amended  by  us  in  recent  years  in  just  such 
way  giving  us  recently  the  great  principle  of  national  prohibition  in 
this  country,  whfich  it  is  the  duty  of  every  good  citizen,  particularly 
every  Latter-day  Saint,  to  support — support  by  giving  information  to 
the  officers  of  those  engaged  in  illicitly  distilling  liquor,  and  as  com- 
plaining witnesses  against  those  who  are  engaged  in  any  such  illegal 
business. 

I  am  sure  that  the  great  Lincoln  would  have  been  pleased  to  have 
heard  the  proceedings  of  this  Conference  in  support  of  law  and  order, 
for  he  made  a  plea  a  little  stronger,  perhaps,  than  anyone  else  has,  in 
fact,  the  strongest  I  have  seen  in  literature  upon  this  subject.  President 
Lincoln  said: 

"Let  every  American,  every  lover  of  Liberty,  every  well-wisher  of  his 
posterity,  swear  by  the  blood'  of  the  revolution  never  to  violate  in  the  least 
particular  the  laws  of  the  country,  and  never  to  tolerate  either  violation  by 
others.  Let  reverence  for  the  laws  be  preached  by  every  American  mother 
to  the  lisping  babe  that  prattles  on  her  lap;  left  it  be:  taught  in  schools, 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


be  written  in  primers,  in  spelling-  books  and  in  almanacs;  let  it  be  preached 
from  the  pulpits" — and  so  say;  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church  today — 
"let  it  be!  preached  from  the  pulpits,  proclaimed  in  legislative  halls,  and  en- 
forced in  the  courts  of  justice.  And  in  short,  let  it  become  the  political 
religion  of  the  nation  and  let  the  poor,  the  grave  and  the  gay,  of  all  sexes 
and  tongues,  and  colors  and  conditions,  sacrifice  unceasingly  upon  its  altars." 

One  of  the  jurists  of  the  United  States  has  pictured  the  glory  that 
would  come  to  us  if  every  citizen  would  do  his  duty.  This  is  the  lan- 
guage of  Justice  Brewer : 

"Picture  the  glory  of  this  Republic  if  in  each  individual  life  were  fully 
disclosed  respect  for  law,  taste  for  justice,  regard  for  the  rights  of  others, 
remembrance  of  the  poor  and  afflicted,  encouragement  of  education,  the 
helping  hand  to  everything  that  is  true,  beautiful  and  'good." 

Speaking  of  the  jurists  of  the  United  States,  I  think  we  of  Utah 
may  well  be  proud  of  the  fact  that  one  of  our  citizens  was  recently 
selected  to  fill  a  place  on  that  great  tribunal,  the  greatest  that  the 
world  has  ever  known,  and  I  am  sure  that  the  friends  of  Utah  also  will 
feel  proud  that  Utah  has  been  given  special  honor  in  that  one  so  con- 
servative and  so  learned  in  the  law  has  been  selected  from  Utah  for  a 
place  upon  that  august  tribunal. 

The  beauty  of  this  gospel  of  ours  is  that  not  only  is  ijt  the  plan 
of  life  and  salvation  to  individuals  but  also  to  nations.  It  is  not  the 
part  of  patriotism  to  ignore  entirely  the  dangers  there  may  be  to  our 
nation.  Great  statesmen  have  not  been  indifferent  to  the  perils  to  the 
life  of  our  nation.    Webster,  for  instance,  on  this  subject  said : 

"If  in  our  case  the  representative  system  ultimately  fails,  popular  gov- 
ernment must  be  pronounced  impossible.  No  combination  of  circumstances 
more  favorable  to  the  experiment  can  ever  be  expected  to  occur.  ;The  last 
hopes  of  mankind,  therefore,  rest  with  us,  and  if  it  should  be  proclaimed 
that  our  example  had  becoime  an  argument  against  the  experiment,  the  knell 
of  popular  liberty  would  be  sounded  throughout  the  earth." 

We  are  living  in  a  day  when  there  are  many  advocates  of  things 
affecting  adversely  the  well-being  of  this  country  of  ours.  The  trouble 
in  this  country  is  the  lack  of  faith  and  confidence.  We  hear  pessimis- 
tic remarks  as  to  the  future  of  our  country.  During  the  war,  one  of  the 
greatest  of  the  war  poems,  so  estimated,  was  in  reference  to  the  de- 
Btructibility  of  nations.  Time  will  not  permit  the  reading  now  of 
this  poem,  written  by  Marshall  South,  entitled  "Progress,"  giving  the 
condition  of  nations  that  have  passed  away-  He  takes  first  the  his- 
tory of  the  glory  of  the  Assyrian  cities,  and  their  boast,  "Behold  our 
progress  and  enlightenment ;  we  are  the  people.  We  shall  surely  stand." 
— -That  was  their  boast  respecting  themselves.  Then  there  is  a  de- 
scription of  those  proud  Assyrian  cities,  the  destruction  of  which  is 
predicted  in  holy  writ.  Then  the  same  thing  in  reference  to  Egypt: 
"Behold  our  progress  and  enlightenment!  We  are  the  people!  We 
shall  surely  stand.  And  speaking  thus  they  passed."  The  same 
with  Rome  and  with  modern  nations,  and  thus  boasting  they  fell  to 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


115 


decay.  We  sang  the  other  day  in  Conference  of  the  time  when  the 
"proud  monarch's  costliest  diadem  will  be  counted  but  dross  and  re- 
fuse."  Many  of  those  present  here  have  lived  to  see  this  come  to  pass. 

The  question  is,  what  can  we  do  to  safeguard  our  nation?  Look 
at  current  literature  as  to  the  condition  of  our  nation  and  the  world. 
Prof.  G.  Stanley  Hall's  article  in  the  October  number  of  the  Century 
Magazine  is  entitled  "Salvaging  Civilization."  Doesn't  that  have  an 
awful  import — salvaging  civilization?  In  support  of  his  article  he 
reviews  a  number  of  writings  as  to  conditions  affecting  our  coun- 
try. For  instance  he  reviews  an  article  entitled,  "The  World  in  Re- 
volt," by  Gustav  LeBon.  Another  article  by  McDougall,  who  takes 
the  place  of  Prof.  Munsterberg  at  Harvard,  discusses,  "Is  America  Safe 
for  Democracy  ?"  He  feels  called  upon  to  sound  a  warning  note.  Then: 
there  is  Prof.  Edward  A.  Ross  whose  subject  is,  "The  Old  World  in 
the  New."  Then  there  is  "Democracy  and  the  Human  Education"  by 
Ireland;  "Dynastic  America,"  by  Klein;  "The  Modernizing  of  the 
Orient,"  by  Clayton  S-  Cooper;  "The  Awakening  of  Asia,"  by  Hynd- 
man;  "The  Rising  Tide  of  Color,"  (the  negro  problem  in  this  coun- 
try) by  Lothrop  Stoddard;  "The  Next  War,"  by  Will  Irwin,  in  which 
he  depicts  the  horrors  of  another  war  if  it  should  ever  come — how  two 
big  airships  could  wipe  out  a  city  like  Berlin  in  a  few  hours;  that  is 
the  picture  shown  by  him.;  "Microbes  and  Men,"  by  R.  T.  Morris; 
"The  Simian  World,"  by  another  author,  emphasizing  "man's  origin! 
from  the  apes ;"  and  the  dramatist's  conception  of  Deity  is  awful. 
I  would  not  like  to  publish  the  slander !  There  is  a  note  of  deep  pes- 
imism  throughout  all  this  literature.  Prof.  G.  Stanley  Hall  thinks 
that  the  churches  cannot  cure  the  evils;  of  course  he  speaks  of  churches 
as  he  knows  them.  He  may  not  know  the  saving  power  of  so-called 
"Mormonism."  It  is  not  a  gpod  picture  that  is  presented  by  the  writers 
of  the  world.  In  a  recent  speech  Secretary  Davis  spoke  of  a  million 
of  babies  taken  annually  from  their  mothers'  breasts  in  death  almost 
before  they  can  open  their  eyes  in  this  world ;  of  a  half  million  of  crip- 
ples and  defectives ;  of  the  million  children  who  have  to  labor,  and  do  not 
have  an  advantageous  childhood,  but  are  pressed  down  by  adverse 
circumstances,  and  the  millions  of  school  children  of  our  land  who  are 
getting  an  education  that  will  fit  only  about  one  in  ten  for  the  par- 
ticular labors  which  then  will  follow  in  life. 

The  gospel  is  not  only  reasonable  but  it  is  practicable-  You  can 
test  every  question  agitating  the  nations  of  the  world  by  these  saving 
principles  of  "Mormonism." 

A  few  simple  verses  in  conclusion.  I  commend  the  thought  to 
those  who  teach  the  millions  in  our  school  rooms  and  to  those  who  else- 
where are  seeking  the  development  of  character: 

We  are  building  every  day, 
In  a  good  or  efvil  way, 
And  th.e  structure,  as  it  grows, 
Will  our  inmost  self  disclose, 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Till  in  every  arch  and  line 
All  our  faults  and  failings  shine; 
It  may  grow  a  castle  grand, 
Or  a  wreck  upon  the  sand. 

Do  you  ask  what  building  this 
That  can  show  both  pain  and  bliss, 
That  can  be  both  dark  and  fair? 
Lo,  its  iname  is  Character! 

Build  it  well,  whate'er  you  do; 
Build  it  straight,  and  strong  and  true ; 
Build  it  clean,  and  high,  and  broad; 
Build  it  for  the  eyei  of  God. 

And  that  is  what  we  Latter-day  Saints  are  endeavoring  to  do  i:i 
our  auxiliaries,  and  in  the  quorums  of  the  Priesthood, — the  building 
of  character;  and  may  the  Lord  help  us  to  do  so,  that,  in  the  splendid 
character  of  men  and  women  that  can  be  developed,  there  will  be  a  sav- 
ing grace  for  commonwealths,  for  states,  and  also  for  nations,  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

(Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  of  the  Church) 

I  have  enjoyed  the  spirit  of  this  conference  and  the  counsel  and 
admonitions  which  have  been  given.  I  feel  the  spirit  of  this  great 
gathering  of  Latter-day  Saints  who  have  come  from  all  parts  of  the 
country  and  have  met  in  general  conference  to  be  instructed  and  edi- 
fied in  our  most  holy  faith. 

The  great  World  War,  as  well  as  being  responsible  for  terrible 
destruction  of  human  life  and  property,  has  absorbed  the  religious  in- 
fluence of  the  world.  Some  of  the  nations  will  never  fully  recover 
or  regain  their  former  prestige  or  social  condition.  It  is  the  mission 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  the  purpose!  of  the  gospel  to  make  the 
world  better.  The  only  remedy  for  the  conditions  now  prevailing  in 
the  world,  is  the  acceptance  and  application  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  in  the  lives  of  the  people  of  the  world.  Such  principles  as 
love,  sympathy,  kindness,  mutual  helpfulness  and  respect  for  the  lives 
of  others,  all  make  for  the  betterment  of  mankind,  and  all  are  incor- 
porated 'in  the  gospel. 

We  have  heard  it  said  very  often  of  late  that  the  world  needs 
to  be  stabilized.  Instead  of  stability  there  are  still  rumors  of  wars,  and 
the  nations  of  Europe  are  in  a  ferment.  Suffering,  poverty,  and  ad- 
verse financial  conditions  have  rendered  it  almost  impossible  for  the 
nations  to  settle  down  to  their  new  conditions  of  life,  as  a  result  of 
the  war.  Even  in  our  own  nation  there  has  been  brought  about  con- 
flicting interests  between  capital  and  labor,  which  have  resulted  in 
strikes,  all  of  which  might  be  overcome,  if  an  unselfish  attitude  were 
taken  by  those  engaged  in  these  conflicts.  We  may  look  forward  to 
more  friction  of  this  character,  but  the  Lord  has  said :    "Stand  ye  in 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


117 


holy  places  and  be  not  moved."  We  should  not  be  tossed  to  and  fro 
with  every  wind  of  doctrine,  whether  it  be  social,  political,  financial 
or  otherwise,  because  the  Lord  has  revealed  to  us  his  purposes,  and  we 
should  train  our  hearts  to  be  willing  t0!  carry  them  out. 

We  sincerely  believe  that  in  the  early  Christian  era,  the  prophet, 
known  as  John  the  Revelator,  foresaw  the  restoration  of  the  gospel. 
He  also  saw  an  angel  fly  through  the  midst  of  heaven,  having  the  ever- 
lasting gospel,  and  after  that  he  saw  a  time  when  a  voice  would  be 
heard,  saying,  "Come  out  of  her,  oh,  ye  my  people,  that  ye  be  not  par- 
takers of  her  sins,  and  receive  any  of  her  plagues."  The  Lord  has 
called  us  out  of  the  world  and  brought  us  into  the  tops  of  the  moun- 
tains, where,  if  we  will  follow  his  commandments,  we  may  be  pre- 
served while  destruction  and  strife  prevail  in  the  earth. 

Under  our  present  conditions  of  living,  we  are  subject  to  many  of 
the  conditions  that  prevail  in,  the  world,  such  as  panics,  labor  strikes, 
lockouts,  and  scarcity  of  employment,  etc.  As  a  people  we  should 
learn  that  human  beings  need  one  another,  and  that  mutual  helpful- 
ness, loving  sympathy,  kindness  and  a  cooperative  spirit  should  prevail 
among  us.  Some  of  us  may  be  affected  by  politics ;  others  by  business 
readjustments ;  others  by  abnormal  local  conditions.  Many  have  been 
affected  by  the  strikes  and  lockouts,  and  the  results  which  follow 
such  terrible  methods  of  adjusting  disputes  and  differences. 

As  I  ponder  over  these  things  I  am  reminded  of  the  great  Taber- 
nacle organ.  Consider  a  moment  its  many  intricacies  of  construction, 
the  tireless  attention  to  detail  that  this  instrument  calls  for  to  keep  it  in 
tune,  and  to  operate  it  so  that  it  may  bring  forth  the  wonderful  and 
inspiring  music  that  we  hear  during  conference.  Unless  it  is  handled 
by  a  master  mechanic,  and  its  keyboard  manipulated  by  a  master  mind, 
it  may  get  out  of  tune,  and  it  needs  those  master  minds  to'  keep  it  in 
tune,  ,so  that  its  harmonies  may  thrill  our  souls.  Sb  it  is  with  Latter- 
day  Saints.  We  come  to  this  great  conference,  some  of  us  worn  with 
the  anxieties  of  life:  we  are  out  of  tune  a  little,  and  then  when  we 
hear  the  voices,  the  admonitions  and  advice  of  the  servants  of  the  Lord, 
holding  the  holy  Priesthood,  our  anxieties  seem  to  lessen,  we  feel  in 
accord  with  our  fellowmen ;  the  .strife  of  the  world  appears  to  us  in 
a  new  aspect,  something  to  be  overcome  and  not  feared ;  we  are  in 
a  receptive  mood  to  receive  the  counsels  of  our  brethren  and  leaders, 
and  to  be  prepared  more  fully  to  carry  on  this  great  latter-day  work. 
And  so  we  should  return  home  willing  and  anxious  to  impart  to 
those  who  did  not  have  the  privilege  of  attending  this  conference,  not 
only  the  words  and  counsel,  but  the  spirit  of  the  great  gathering,  and 
thus  create  harmony,  good-feeling,  and  fellowship  in  the  communities 
from  whjich  we  come. 

The  home  is  the  great  stabilizing  influence  of  the  Church,  and 
of  the  nation.  It  is  the  mission  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  develop 
the  highest  type  of  family  life.  If  we  fail  in  our  home  life ;  if  we  fail 
to  teach  and  train  our  children  in  the'  principles  of  the  gospel,  and  to 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


love  their  f  ellowman ;  if  we  fail  to  impress  upon  them  the  word  of 
God,  then  we  have  not  done  our  duty.  And  as  the  home  fails,  so  will 
the  community  fail. 

Let  me  advise  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  observe  strictly  the  laws 
of  the  gospel,  particularly  to  keep  the  Sabbath  day  holy  arid  not  to 
allow  modern  life  with  its  automobiles  and  pleasure  resorts  to  swerve 
us  from  what  we  know  to  be  right  and  proper  in  the  observance  of 
the  Lord's  day.  Many  of  the  great  inventions  of  these  latter  days 
are  destroying  respect  for  law,  respect  for  the  Sabbath  day,  respect 
for  religion  and  for  constituted  authority.  Let  us  use  all  these  modern 
inventions  in  a  proper  way,  but  'do  not  let  us  use  the  Sabbath  day  for 
a  day  of  pleasure,  or  recreation,  or  devote  it  entirely  to  the  pleasures 
of  life.  We  should  carry  out  strictly  the  word  of  the  Lord  as  found 
in  the  59th  Section  of  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

"And  that  thou  mayest  more  fully  keep  thyself  unspotted  from  the  world,  . 
thou  shalt  g,o  to  the  house  of  prayer  and  offer  lip  thy  sacraments  upon  my  holy 
day;  for  verily  this  is  a  day  appointed  unto  you  to  rest  from  your  labors,  and 
to  pay  thy  devotions  unto  the  Most  High ;  nevertheless  thy  vows  shall  be  offered 
up  in  righteousness  on  all  days  and  at  all  times ;  but  remember  that  on  this  the 
Lord's  day,  thou  shalt  offer  thine  oblations  and  thy  sacraments  unto  the  Most 
High,  confessing  thy  sins  unto  thy  brethren,  arid  before  the  Lord.  And  on  this 
day  thou  shalt  do  none  other  thing,  only  let  thy  food  be  prepared  with  single- 
ness of  heart  that  thy  fasting  may  be  perfect,  or,  in  other  words,  that  thy  joy- 
may  be  full." 

May  we  so  live  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  be  our  constant 
companion ;  that  it  may  guide  us  constantly ;  that  this  Spirit  may  develop 
in  our  hearts  a  love  of  the  truth  and  a  love!  of  the  work  of  God  and 
love  of  our  fellowmen,  that  we  may  develop  sympathy  for  the  mis- 
fortunes of  humanity,  and  the  weaknesses  of  our  fellowmen,  and 
strive  by  example  to  be  a  light  to  the  world,  that,  "seeing  our  good: 
works  the  world  may  glorify  our  Father  which  is  in  heaven."  Amen- 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

{Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy) 

I  was  deeply  impressed  by  the  remarks  of  Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe 
in  the  opening  meeting  of  yesterday,  in  the  great  Tabernacle,  who  spoke 
of  education  as  a  means  for  overcoming  the  evils  of  the  present  day — 
the  utter  lack  of  regard  for  law  and  order — the  spirit  of  violence  and 
contempt  for  law  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  stiffnecked  selfishness  and 
greed  on  the  other.  I  am  converted  to  the  fact,  and  always  have  been, 
that  education  (and  when  I  say  education  I  mean  that  full  rounded-out 
education  which  contemplates  the  development  of  all  our  faculties) 
would  be  a  complete  remedy  for  all  such  evils.  We  are  the  children  of 
God  and  this  world  is  a  great  school.  Shakespeare  said :  "All  the 
world  is  a  stage,  and  all  the  men  and  women  are  but  actors  in  it."  But 
you  will  allow  me  to  paraphrase  this  expression  and  say :    "All  the 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


119 


world  is  a  school,  and  all  the  men  and  women  are  but  students  in  it." 
All  other  institutions  of  learning  such  as  our  public  schools,  our  sem- 
inaries and  academies,  our  colleges  and  universities,  including  also  our 
Church  schools  are  supplemental  auxiliaries  to  this  great  school  which 
has  enrolled  upon  its  record  every  living  human  being,  and  in  times 
that  are  past,  every  soul  that  ever  breathed  the  breath  of  life.  By  far 
the  greater  part  of  our  education  is  received  outside  of  these  auxiliary 
institutions,  and  I  hope  that  no  one  will  think  that  I  underestimate  their 
value.  On  the  contrary  I  regard  them  highly  important  and  the  teach- 
ers and  professors  who  have  specialized  for  their  respective  departments 
are  great  benefactors  of  the  human  race  and  are  engaged  in  a  noble 
calling- 

Among  these  educators  men  have  risen  to  high  distinction,  and 
the  world  is  rightly  proud  of  them,  but  in  this  great  school  God  is  our 
teacher  and  with  him  none  can  compare.  "There  is  a  spirit  in  man :  and 
the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty  giveth  them  understanding"  (Job  32  :8). 
And  whatever  enlightenment  or  understanding  may  have  come  to  man  be 
sure  it  came  from  the  Great  Fountain  of  all  truth — from  the  Almighty 
that  giveth  him  understanding;  and  this  is  true  whether  men  admit  it 
or  not.  Some  there  are  who  arrogate  all  the  credit  to  themselves  and 
their  work — to  perspiration  not  inspiration.  Surely  the  inspiration  of 
the  Lord  will  come  to  those  who  work  and  study  and  endeavor  with  all 
their  might  to  know  the  truth,  and  not  to  the  indolent. 

I  often  think  of  that  Greek  philosopher,  who  had  been  studiously 
searching  for  the  law  of  speqific,  gravity,  and  who  while  bathing 
in  a  pool  noticed  how  much  lighter  the  body  was  in  the  water  than  out 
of  it,  and  forgetting  that  he  was  naked  rushed  out  into  the  street  cry- 
ing "Eureka,  Eureka,  I  have  found  ilj!  I  have  found  it."  The  in- 
spiration of  the  Almighty  had  given  him  an  understanding.  So  has  it 
always  been  with  every  great  discovery  or  invention,  and  this  view  does 
not  and  should  not  in  any  degree  detract  from  the  honor  which  the 
world  is  glad  to  give  to  those  whom  God  has  used  as  instruments  in 
bringing  truth  to  light.  "And  the  Spirit  giveth  light  to  every  man  that 
cometh  into  the  world."  (Doc.  and  Cov.  84:46.)  This  clearly  re- 
lates to  every  department  of  learning  whether  secular  or  religious  and 
to  all  men  and  women  whether  believers  or  not.  It  is  universal.  Thus 
God  is  teaching  by  his  Spirit  all  the  nations  of  the  earth,  but  there  have 
also  been  many  false  teachers  and  many  have  preferred  thair  teach- 
ings, for  "men  love  darkness  rather  than  light  because  their  deeds  are 
evil." 

Even  in  the  study  of  the  secular  branches  of  education  we  need 
the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty.  In  the  study  of  history,  geography, 
mathematics  and  the  sciences,  also  in  our  physical  education  which  in- 
volves the  law  of  health  and  the  proper  care  of  the  body  but  above 
all  in  our  spiritual  education,  which  relates  to  the  things  of  God  and 
which  includes  within  it  the  two  former  branches  for  after  all  with 
God  all  things  are  first  spiritual. 

It  is  the  mind  and  will  of  God  that  all  men  shall  receive  the  high- 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


est  education  and  enlightenment,  but  there  is  "no  royal  road  to1  learn- 
ing, and  those  who  will  receive  diplomas  in  the  school  of  God  must 
take  the  course  outlined  in  its  curriculum  which  provides  that  men 
shall  not  only  know  the  truth,  but  also  do  it.  And  this  truth  is  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  which  is  the  "power  of  God  unto  Salvation ;" 
and  salvation  means  education ;  for,  as  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has 
told  us,  "men  are  saved  no  faster  than  they  obtain  knowledge,"  and  "the 
glory  of  God  is  intelligence."  The  first  steps  are  faith  in  God  and  re- 
pentance from  sin  to  be  followed  by  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  re- 
mission of  sin  performed  by  a  duly  accredited  agent  of  God  endowed 
with  "power  from  on  high,"  and  all  this  that  men  may  be  cleansed  from 
sin  through  the  atoning  blood  of  Jesus  Christ,  whose  death  and  res- 
urrection is  so  beautifully  symbolized  in  this  sacred  ordinance-  And 
after  having  thus  been  cleansed  from  sin,  and  not  before  that,  they 
may  receive  the  Gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost — the  Spirit  of  truth  whose 
special  duty  is  to  lead  us  into  all  truth — the  great  educator  under 
whose  tuition  we  may  receive  the  highest  degrees — become  real  Doctors 
of  Divinity.  But  we  may  only  obtain  this  special  endowment,  which 
comes  to  us  as  a  gift  from  God,  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  through 
the  cleansing  process  of  the  gospel,  as  I  have  just  indicated,  and  it  may 
only  be  retained  just  as  long  as  we  keep  ourselves  "clean  and  unspotted 
from  the  sins  of  the  world,"  for  his  Spirit  will  not  dwell  in  an  unclean 
tabernacle. 

Do  we  appreciate  this  wonderful  gift  and  the  necessity  of  retaining 
it — the  constant  companionship  of  the  Holy  Spirit  to  be  our  tutor,  our 
teacher,  our  educator?  To  what  heights  may  we  not  ascend  or  into 
what  depths  may  we  not  delve  in  our  pursuit  of  knowledge  under  such 
guidance?  "Eye  hath  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard,  neither  have  entered 
into  the  heart  of  man,  the  things  which  God  hath  prepared  for  them 
that  love  him.  But  God  hath  revealed  unto  us  by  his  Spirit ;  for  the 
Spirit  searcheth  all  things,  yea,  the  deep  things  of  God.  For  what 
man  knoweth  the  things  of  a  man,  save  by  the  ^spirit  of  man  which 
is  in  him?  Even  so  the  things  of  God  knoweth  no  man,  but  the  Spirit 
of  God"  (1  Cor.  2:9-11). 

Education  obtained  under  such  divine  instruction  would  surely 
be  a  remedy  for  the  evils  of  the  day.  The  gospel  of  Jesus  Chirst  5s  a 
gospel  of  repentance  from  sin  and  is  therefore  a  panacea  for  every 
evil.  Its  teachings  would  do  away  with  selfishness  and  greed,  with 
violence  and  lawlessness,  with  strikes  and  their  cause,  with  immor- 
ality and  debauchery,  with  robbery  and  murder,  and  the  whole  cate- 
gory of  crime- 

Education  means  development  and  growth.  We  are  the  children 
of  God,  and  have  inherited  from  him  all  of  his  divine  attributes.  The 
difference  between  him  and  us  is  this :  he  is  educated,  we  are  not,  but 
having  his  attributes  we  are  susceptible  to  receiving  an  education  which 
means  the  development  in  us  of  his  divine  attributes.  The  injunction: 
"Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  Father  in  heaven  is  perfect," 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


121 


js  reasonable  and  within  the  limit  of  possibility,  which  would  not  be 
the  case  if  we  had  not  inherited  all  his  attributes. .  These  attributes 
though  perfect  in  him  are  very  imperfect  in  us,  and  are  capable  of 
being  perverted  or  distorted  and  counterfeited  and  thus  changed  from 
virtue  into  vice.  The  development  of  the  divine  attributes  and  the  re- 
jection of  the  distorted  and  counterfeited  onqs  is  only  another  phase 
of  repentance. 

For  example :  Economy  is  a  godlike  attribute  and  in  the  economy 
of  God  there  is  no  waste.  What  an  abundant  supply  of  water  there  is 
in  the  creation  of  this  earth ;  three-fourths  of  its  entire  surface  is  cov- 
ered with  this  element.  It  comes  trickling  down  the  mountain  sides, 
springing  forth  from  the  canyons  into  the  mountain  streams,  and  thence 
into  the  rivers.  It  is  often  diverted  onto  arid  lands,  and  causes  them  to 
bring  forth  rich  harvests ;  and  sometimes  harnessed,  lighting  our  cities 
with  electric  rays,  setting  in  motion  the  machinery  of  the  world,  and 
again  finding  its  way  into  the  river  beds  and  on  out  into  the  great 
ocean  where  it  is  caught  up  into  the  clouds  through  evaporation  and 
wafted  by  the  winds  back  into  the  mountains  to  begin  anew  its  useful 
course.  And  yet,  not  a  single  drop  is  wasted.  In  the  economy  of  God 
there  is  no  waste.  Yet  how  liberally  and  abundantly  it  is  used.  Con- 
trast this  divine  attribute  with  the  devil's  counterfeit — stinginess.  Some 
people  think  they  are  economical  when  in  reality  they  are  merely 
stingy.  How  I  despise  a  stingy  man.  Generosity  is  a  noble  attribute. 
The  Lord  loves  a  liberal  giver.  Its  counterfeit  is  wastefulness  and 
prodigality.  Acquisitiveness  is  the  power  of  accumulating  and  acquiring 
wealth.  See  what  the  Lord  hath  acquired,  the  earth  is  his  and  the  ful- 
ness thereof,  and  the  devil  has  his  counterfeit  of  this  noble  attribute, 
we  call  it  avarice ;  it  is  one  of  the  great  causes  of  human  suffering,  it  is 
the  love  of  money,  the  root  of  all  evil,  thus  we  might  continue  the 
long  list  and  show  how  praise  becomes  flattery,  wisdom  pedantry,  pride, 
vanity;  admiration  is  changed  to  envy  and  self  esteem,  a  proper  re- 
gard for  one's  self,  becomes  egotism.  How  despicable !  The  big  I  and 
the  little  you.  Always  talking  about  oneself,  and  only  interested  5n 
others  when  they  are  talking  about  him.  The  greatest  of  all  attributes 
is  love,  the  biggest  thing  in  the  world,  the  all  including  attribute ;  the 
love  of  God  and  our  fellow  man  is  the  fulfilment  of  the  law  and 
the  prophets.  This  is  truly  alone  the  complete  remedy  for  all  the 
evils  of  our  day.  And  then,  think  of  the  devil's  counterfeit,  lust, 
licentiousness.  The  holier  the  divine  attribute  the  more  contemptible 
Its  counterfeit. 

Everything  that  is  good  and  useful  someone  tries  to  imitate  or 
counterfeit.  Gur  government  issues  currency  in  various  denominations, 
and  they  pass  for  legal  tender,  but  some  devil  counterfeits  them  and 
palms  them  off  upon  the  public.  Gold  and  silver  coins  are  issued  from 
the  mints,  and  are  worth  their  face  value,  but  the  devil  or  some  of  his 
imps  will  take  a  baser  metal  and  gild  it  over  with  gold  and  pass  it  off 
as  genuine. 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Pure  religion  and  undefiled,  before  God  the  Father,  embraces 
within  it  everything  that  is  good  and  holy;  but  hypocrisy,  the 
devil's  counterfeit,  embraces  within  it  all  that  is  vile  and  evil,  in- 
cluding these  distortions  and  counterfeits.  Don't  despise  the  pure 
gold  of  religion  simply  because  the  devil  has  made  a  counterfeit 
of  it  in  hypocrisy. 

Thus  the  Lord  is  endeavoring  to  educate  us  in  his  great 
school,  for  his  Spirit  is  striving  with  all  men,  and  through  the 
inspiration  of  the  Almighty  a  great  flood  of  light  and  under- 
standing is  coming  into  the  world,  but  if  you  are  ambitious  and 
desire  a  full  rounded-out  education  and  particularly  in  the  deep 
things  of  God,  remember  this  can  only  be  secured  by  obedience  to 
his  gospel  through  which  we  secure  and  may  retain  the  constant 
companionship  of  his  Holy  Spirit,  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  a  life 
scholarship  in  the  great  School  of  God.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "As  the  dew  from  heaven  distilling." 
Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  G.  M.  Barnes. 


FIRST  OUTDOOR  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

An  outdoor  overflow  meeting  was  held  at  the  Bureau  of  In- 
formation, 10  a.  m.,  Sunday,  October  8,  1922.  Elder  Rey  L.  Pratt, 
President  of  the  Mexican  mission,  presided. 

The  congregation  sang,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  William  O.  Crowther,  president  of 
the  San  Luis  stake  of  Zion. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Come  let  us  anew  our  journey  pursue." 

ELDER  WINSLOW  F.  SMITH 

(President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission) 

In  his  first  epistle  to  the  Corinthians,  Paul  addressed  a  particular 
message  to  the  men  of  Corinth,  in  these  words: 

"Ye  see  your  calling,  brethren,  how  that  not  many  wise  men  after  the  flesh, 
not  many  mighty,  not  many  noble,  are  called; 

"But  God  hath  chosen,  the  foolish  things  of  the  world  to  confound  the 
wise;  and  God  hath  chosen  the  weak  things  ,of  the  world  to  confound  the 
things  which  are  mighty; 

"And  base  things  of  the  world,  and  things  which  are  despised,  hath  God 
chosen,  yea,  and  things  which  are  not,  to  bring  to  nought  things  that  are : 

"That  no  flesh  should  glory  in  his  presence." 

The  great  word  of  the  Lord  at  all  times  has  been  given  to  the 
world  through  humble  men.  It  has  not  been  the  policy  of  our  Father 
to  go  into  the  schools  of  the  learned,  into  the  palaces  of  the  mighty, 


ELDER  WIN  SLOW  F.  SMITH 


123 


to  pick  men  to  do  his  work,  but  at  all  times  he  has  chosen  men  who 
were  humble,  who  were  unknown,  and  he  has  magnified  them  and 
made  them  mighty  in  the  work  which  he  had  for  them.  We  can  look 
back  into  Old  Testament  times,  and  almost  without  exception  the  men 
who  were  called  were  humble,  obscure  men.  We  can  come  down 
to  the  day  of  the  Savior,  and  we  find  that  "though  he  were  a  Son,  yet 
learned  he  obedience  by  the  things  which  he  suffered ;  and  being  made 
perfect,  he  became  the  author  of  eternal  salvation  unto  all  them  that 
obey  him."  The  Savior  of  the  world,  the  Redeemer  of  mankind, 
the  Son  of  the  living  God,  came  here  and  lived  humbly,  as  a  man 
among  men.  He  moved  with  the  humble ;  he  lived  with  them ;  he  ate 
with  them  ;  he  slept  with  them ;  he  was  one  of  them ;  and  until  he  began 
to  come  into  prominence,  he  was  unknown  to  the  mighty  of  his  day. 
And  when  the  hour  had  come  for  him  to  commence  his  work  in  pub- 
lic and  he  needed  helpers,  he  did  not  go  into  the  higher  schools  nor 
into  the  palaces  of  the  mighty,  but  he  went  down  to  the  seashore  and 
chose  humble  fisher  folk,  men  of  no  importance  in  the  eyes  of  the 
world.  He  said  unto  them,  "Follow  me,  and  I  will  make  you  fishers 
of  men ;"  and  in  that  they  did  follow  him,  he  did  make  them  the 
fishers  of  men,  and  he  magnified  them  that  they  grew  to  be  most 
marvelous  servants  of  the  Lord.  And  while  the  men  of  their  day 
who  were  mighty  in  the  political,  and  influential  in  the  commercial 
and  the  educational  world,  have  in  a  large  degree  been  forgotten, 
these  humble  fisher  folk  and  tradesmen  that  the  Lord  called  and 
magnified  live  in  the  hearts  and  in  the  lives  of  millions  of  men,  and 
their  names  will  go  down  through  all  time  as  the  men  who  carried  on 
the  great  work  inaugurated  by  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

Now,  coming  on  further  down  in  the  history  of  the  world  and 
considering  the  great  latter-day  work,  we  find  that  when  the  time  had 
arrived,  when  God  was  ready  to  do  his  great  work,  he  did  not  go 
into  the  schools  of  the  learned,  into  the  palaces  of  the  mighty,  but 
took  an  unknown  backwoods  boy  in  the  state  of  New  York.  That 
boy  was  the  man  he  wanted.  His  spirit  was  pure;  his  life  had  been 
such  that  he  qualified  for  this  great  work.  So  the  Lord  chose  Joseph 
Smith  and  appeared  to  him  with  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  and  they  told 
Joseph  that  if  he  would  be  loyal  and  true  and  live  the  life  that  he 
should  live,  he  would  see  the  day  that  the  gospel  would  again  be  on 
the  earth,  with  all  its  powers,  its  gifts,  its  graces,  and  its  blessings. 

So  this  boy  went  forth ;  and  in  time  there  came  to  him  more  rev- 
elation, more  light,  more  knowledge ;  and  ultimately  it  was  made  known 
to  him  that  he  was  the  chosen  vessel  to  carry  on  the  work  of  the  Lord. 
When  he  was  qualified,  and  had  received  this  heavenly  knowledge,  he 
called  to  himself  humble  men  (for  his  own  position  in  life  was  not 
such  as  would  attract  the  attention  of  the  important  and  the  learned) 
and  in  full  faith,  Joseph  Smith,  and  the  men  who  joined  him  and 
believed  in  his  message  commenced  the  work  of  organizing  in  its 
fulness,  in  its  completeness,  yes,  in  its  entirety,  the  Church  of  Christ. 

We  are  all  familiar  with  the  work  that  they  did :  how  that  in  this 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Christian  land  of  ours,  which  God  had  prepared  for  the  day  of  the 
coming  of  his  work  where  there  were  hundreds  of  churches,  with  many 
honest  souls  who  were  ready  to  receive  the  light  in  its  fulness,  these 
young  men  went  forth  declaring,  not  a  new  gospel,  not  something 
that  the  world  had  never  heard,  but  the  old  fashioned  gospel,  the 
same  principles  that  existed  in  the  primitive  church,  the  same  officers 
to  administer  in  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel,  the  same  godly  virtues 
that  men  must  follow  in  order  to  work  out  their  salvation.  The  world 
was  astonished  to  hear  this  unknown  boy  declaring  these  same  prin- 
ciples and  the  same  things  that  they  had  always  heard ;  but  the  world 
was  more  astonished,  more  completely  upset  when  this  same  boy,  this 
man  called  to  open  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times,  this  prophet 
of  God  declared  to  them  that  they  did  not  have  the  power  of  the 
Priesthood  of  the  living  God.  In  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  there 
must  be  divine  power.  These  churches  were  doing  good,  they  were 
teaching  moral  living  and  uprightness,  yet  in  their  organization,  in 
their  ordinance  work,  in  their  teaching  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
there  was  not  the  power  of  the  Priesthood  of  the  living  God. 

Boldly  did  he  declare  this  great  message,  fearlessly  did  he  and 
his  associates  go  forth  teaching  and  preaching,  and  the  result  was 
that  the  world  saw  that  there  was  something  astir  that  they  had  not 
dreamed  of.  The  world  saw  that  in  the  work  of  this  young  man  and 
his  associates  there  was  power,  and  they  marveled  at  it.  And  that 
power  was  there,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  because  the  Priesthood  of 
the  living  God  was  again  upon  the  earth.  Joseph  and  his  associates, 
humble  men  that  they  were,  rose  to  a  place  that  today  their  names  are 
known  throughout  the  entire  civilized  world,  and  the  work  that  they 
commenced,  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  taught  through  the  organ- 
ization known  as  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
has  grown  steadily.  Despite  the  fact  that  it  has  met  bitter  oppo- 
sition, terrific  opposition,  in  fact,  at  the  hands  of  the  mighty,  at  the 
hands  of  the  learned,  it  has  grown  and  developed  until  today  it  is 
filling  the  whole  earth. 

I  have  in  my  pocket  here  a  statement  made  by  the  late  Charles 
Ellis,  a  non-member  of  the  Church  who  lectured  a  number  of  years 
ago  in  Salt  Lake.  He  asks  this  question,  "Why  has  'Mormonism' 
been  so  much  misunderstood?"  And  then  he  proceeds  to  answer  his 
own  question  in  these  words :  "Simply  because  the  evangelical 
churches  saw  in  its  success  their  own  downfall,  and  they  dared  not 
let  their  own  followers  know  what  'Mormonism'  really  is,  lest  they 
should  embrace  it."  This  is  a  truth,  an  absolute  fact,  my  brethren 
and  sisters.  The  thinking  world  recognizes  in  this  thing  called  "Mor- 
monism" a  power  with  which  it  is  not  able  to  cope,  recognizes  that 
despite  a  hundred  years  of  bitter  persecution  that  little  stone,  cut  out 
of  the  mountain  without  hands,  has  rolled  forth  and  is  rolling  forth 
slowly  filling  the  whole  earth.  They  see  this,  and  when  we  turn  back 
to  that  passage  of  scripture  that  I  quoted  to  you,  we  see,  as  members 


ELDER  WIN  SLOW  F.  SMITH 


125 


of  the  Church,  that  God  has  made  the  weak  strong,  has  made  the 
humble  mighty,  has  made  the  unlearned  so  wonderful  that  the  light 
of  their  teachings  has  gone  into  all  the  world. 

When  we  study  present-day  religion,  when  we  study  the  creeds 
and  the  teachings  and  the  doctrines  of  the  present-day  churches  of 
the  world,  we  find  all  through  them  the  effects  of  "Mormonism." 
They  are  changing  their  doctrines.  They  are  teaching  something  new. 
They  have  cast  aside  many  of  the  old  things  that  they  had  one  hun- 
dred years  ago,  and  in  their  place  are  substituting  the  glorious  prin- 
ciples of  life  and  salvation.  We  find  them  teaching  tithing,  we  find 
them  teaching  a  personal  God,  we  find  them  teaching  the  brotherhood 
of  man,  we  find  them  teaching  in  a  small  degree  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom. We  find  things  first  advanced  in  this  day  and  age  by  Joseph 
Smith,  the  unknown,  unschooled  boy  prophet,  whom  God  made  mighty 
for  the  work,  gradually  being  accepted  by  the  world ;  we  find  the 
churches  of  the  world  teaching  his  doctrine. 

And  so,  my  brothers,  you  men  who  hold  the  Priesthood  especially, 
I  say  unto  you  that  upon  you,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  rests  the  grave  responsibility  of  doing  the  work  of  the  Lord. 
We  have  the  Priesthood,  and  if  we  are  living  to  magnify  our  calling, 
we  have  the  right  to  officiate  in  the  name  of  God,  and  if  we  are  doing 
our  duty  and  are  faithful  and  true  and  our  faith  is  sufficiently  strong, 
those  blessings  and  signs  which  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  said  should  fol- 
low the  believer  will  be  made  manifest  in  our  behalf;  we  will  heal  the 
sick ;  we  will  cast  out  devils ;  because  of  these  things ;  these  signs,  are 
to  follow  them  that  believe.  While  we  admire  the  man  who  strives 
for  education,  and  while  we  rejoice  to  see  our  brethren  climb  up  in 
the  world  of  affairs,  more  potent,  more  powerful,  more  wonderful 
than  all  that  can  be  achieved  by  them  is  this  Priesthood  of  Almighty 
God,  which  is  yours  and  is  mine,  if  we  live  worthily  and  magnify  our 
callings. 

How  wonderful  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ!  How  gloriously 
is  its  message  being  heralded  to  all  the  world !  What  a  splendid  body 
of  men  and  women  are  the  missionaries  you  send  out  into  the  field ! 
Go  where  you  will,  search  this  great  world  of  ours  from  one  end  to 
the  other,  and,  brethren,  I  tell  you,  you  cannot  find  their  like,  for  in 
their  souls  they  have  the  Spirit  of  the  living  God;  they  have  obeyed 
the  command  of  the  Lord;  they  have  done  his  will;  they  have  kept 
his  word.  And  according  to  the  promise  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
wherein  he  said,  "If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the 
doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself,"  they 
have  done  his  will,  they  are  doing  his  will,  they  are  keeping  his  com- 
mandments, and  they  know  of  the  doctrine,  that  it  is  of  God,  and  they 
go  forth  fearlessly.  In  their  humility  they  are  mighty.  They  are 
men  of  God  and  women  of  God,  and  the  work  that  they  are  doing  will 
fill  the  whole  world.    God  has  said  that  this  work  shall  triumph. 

You  or  I  may  fall  aside,  we  may  lose  our  faith,  we  may  fail  to 
sustain  and  support  the  men  God  calls  to  preside  over  us,  but  the  work 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  the  Lord  will  go  on  and  we,  if  we  fail  to  do  those  things,  will  lose. 
It  has  been  here  a  hundred  years  now.  The  work  is  going  forward. 
The  purpose  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  to  prepare  men  to  re- 
ceive from  our  heavenly  Father  the  great  glories  that  he  has  for  them. 
"This  is  my  work  and  my  glory,"  said  the  Lord,  "to  bring  to  pass 
the  immortality  and  the  eternal  life  of  man."  And  I  tell  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  these  words  are  true,  that  they  are  being 
fulfilled,  and  that  the  men  and  women  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  who  are  loyal  and  who  are  true  will  reap  this 
blessing.  The  Priesthood  of  the  living  God  is  here.  It  is  on  the 
earth.  Its  effects  are  being  felt,  and  our  eternal  Father  is  at  the 
helm.  Men  may  fight  against  the  Church  of  Christ ;  men  may  say 
all  manner  of  evil  things  against  this  people;  men  may  kill  us,  if  it 
goes  so  far,  but  at  the  helm  there  stands  the  living  God,  and  this  work, 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  taught  by  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  is 
here  to  prepare  the  world  for  Jesus'  coming,  for  truly  he  is  coming 
to  reign  as  King  of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords.  And  we,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  will  have  our  place  in  the  kingdom  of  our  God,  if  we 
are  true.  May  he  help  us  to  be  true,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON 

(Assistant  Church  Historian) 

My  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends:  I  am  afraid  my  voice  can 
not  reach  the  people  who  are  standing  way  off  in  front  of  the  As- 
sembly Hall.  I  have  never  posed  very  much  as  an  outdoor  speaker. 
I  prefer  to  speak  under  a  roof.  But  nevertheless,  I  desire,  on  this  oc- 
casion, to  be  true  to  my  appointment  and  endeavor  to  say  a  few  words, 
trusting  that  most  of  you  can  hear  what  I  have  to  say. 

I  am  representing  the  historical  department  of  the  Church,  and  I 
have  for  many  years  had  a  kind  of  a  mission  of  my  own.  In  this  con- 
nection I  have  to  a  certain  extent  been  alone  in  my  class — not  but  what 
others  have  also  worked  faithfully  in  the  same  line,  but  it  has  been 
my  privilege  for  many  years  to  devote  nearly  all  my  time,  and  the  best 
of  my  mental  faculties,  to  writing,  compiling  and  gathering  together 
material  for  a  somewhat  complete  history  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  for  the  Nineteenth  Century.  It  is  expected  that 
younger  historians  will  write  the  histories  of  later  years. 

I  find,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  very  first  thing  which 
the  Lord  said  to  his  Church,  after  it  was  organized  on  the  6th  of 
April,  1830,  was  that  a  record  should  be  kept  among  the  members. 
Several  years  later  Joseph  Smith  (in  an  epistle  that  he  wrote  from 
Nauvoo)  stated  something  like  this,  "Whatsoever  you  record  on  earth, 
shall  be  recorded  in  heaven,  and  whatsoever  you  do  not  record  On 
earth,  shall  not  be  recorded  in  heaven."   The  Prophet,  in  writing  this, 


ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON 


127 


alluded  to  baptism  for  the  dead,  but  the  rule  holds  good,  if  I  judge 
right,  in  other  matters  as  well. 

Now,  in  perusing  the  Bible,  I  find  that  the  very  first  thing,  the 
very  first  line  in  the  sacred  volume,  is  history :  It  says :  "In  the  be- 
ginning God  created  the  heavens  and  the  earth."  The  first  paragraph 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  also  history,  as  it  reads :  "I,  Nephi,  having 
been  born  of  goodly  parents :  therefore  I  was  taught  somewhat  in  all 
the  learning  of  my  father."  The  very  first  passage  in  the  Pearl  of 
Great  Price  is  of  a  similar  nature.  We  find  these  words :  "The  words 
of  God,  which  he  spake  unto  Moses,  at  a  time  when  Moses  was  caught 
up  into  an  exceeding  high  mountain.  And  he  saw  God  face  to  face, 
and  he  talked  with  him,  and  the  glory  of  God  was  upon  Moses ;  there- 
fore Moses  could  endure  his  presence."  Continuing  on,  the  narrative 
explains  how  the  Lord  wanted  to  reveal  to  Moses  the  early  history  of 
this  world.  The  Lord  said  that  there  were  many  other  worlds,  but 
that  Moses  could  not  comprehend  the  extent  of  God's  creation,  and 
therefore  he  proceeded  to  tell  Moses  about  the  beginning  of  this  world 
— the  world  "upon  which  thou  standest." 

I  allude  to  these  things  to  show  you  the  importance  of  records. 
I  am  convinced  that  no  one  historian,  nor  four  or  five  historians,  can 
possibly  do  justice  to  everything  that  ought  to  be  written  on  Church 
history  at  the  present  time.  Nor  can  the  stake  clerks,  the  ward  clerks, 
the  clerks  of  the  different  quorums  of  priesthood,  nor  the  clerks  of 
the  different  auxiliary  organizations,  do  all  the  recording  necessary. 
You  must  help  do  it.  All  of  you  must  assist  in  this  great  work  whereby 
the  memory  of  men  and  women  of  prominence  and  of  integrity  can 
be  perpetuated,  and  their  history  be  handed  down,  so  that  their  glo- 
rious examples  may  shine  for  the  benefit  of  those  who  follow  through 
future  generations. 

We  do  not  as  a  people  desire  to  boast  of  what  we  have  done,  or 
are  going  to  do,  in  fact,  we  are  not  boasting  at  all  when  we  occasionally 
allude  to  what  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  done  and  what  they  intend 
to  do.  Nor  do  we  wish  our  friends  to  imagine  that  we  are  egotistic 
when  we  allude  to  what  we  think  the  future  has  in  store  for  us.  But 
we  are  proud,  as  historians,  to  occasionally  refer  to  the  fact  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  have  already  done  something  worthy  of  them.  The 
gospel  has  already  been  preached  by  us  in  the  different  nations  of  the 
earth  to  an  extent  that  gives  us*  great  satisfaction.  True,  we  have  not 
covered  the  whole  earth  yet  with  our  preaching,  though  our  elders 
have  visited  almost  every  land  and  clime.  But  there  are  many  coun- 
tries where  the  people  would  not  receive  us  as  missionaries,  where 
the  governments  have  banished  us  the  moment  we  have  shown  our 
faces  to  testify. of  the  restored  gospel.  Consequently,  the  majority  of 
the  inhabitants  of  these  countries  cannot  be  held  responsible,  as  they 
have  not  heard  enough  of  the  true  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  either  to  save 
them  or  damn  them.  But  in  such  countries  where  we  have  had  access, 
we  have  diligently  preached  the  gospel  to  the  best  of  our  ability  and 
are  just  a  little  bit  pleased  with  our  records  of  the  past  in  this  regard. 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


We  are  somewhat  satisfied  with  the  missionary  work  we  have  done 
in  the  past  and  with  what  we  are  doing  now.  However,  we  have  had 
more  missions  in  years  gone  by  than  we  have  at  the  present  time; 
that  is  to  say  that  several  missions  were  established  at  an  early  day 
which  are  not  in  existence  now.  We  are  thankful  to  our  heavenly 
Father  for  the  work  enjoined  upon  us  as  Latter-day  Saints,  namely, 
to  preach  the  gospel  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people,  to 
gather  in  the  elect  from  the  four  quarters  of  the  earth  and  to  organ- 
ize them  into  stakes  of  Zion  and  into  wards  and  settlements  by  locat- 
ing them  in  the  land  which  God  has  designed  for  his  Saints  to  gather  to. 

We  have  done  something  also  by  way  of  colonizing,  and  that 
is  another  thing*  with  which  we  are  somewhat  pleased.  We  com- 
menced our  first  colonization  way  down  in  Jackson  County,  Missouri, 
as  early  as  1831,  and  we  are  anxious  that  a  true  and  faithful  record 
should  be  made  of  what  we  did  there  to  be  handed  dowin  to  future 
generations.  We  desire  our  children  to  know  what  the  Latter-day 
Saints  were  doing  at  the  beginning  on  the  borders  of  the  United 
States  (on  the  western  edge  of  the  country)  as  pioneers  and  colonizers. 
Among  other  things  we  established  a  printing  office  120  miles  further 
west  than  any  other  printing  office  in  the  United  States,  as  early 
as  1832.  We  founded  a  settlement  near  the  banks  of  the  Missouri 
River  which  would  undoubtedly  have  grown  to  great  dimensions,  had 
we  been  permitted  to  continue  our  efforts,  and  instead  of  a  Kansas 
City  we  might  perhaps  have  built  a  strong  "Mormon"  headquarters  in 
Jackson  county.  Perhaps  we  would  have  called  it  Zion,  the  New  Jeru- 
salem, or  the  capital  of  the  world,  from  which  the  law  should  go 
forth  in  the  Lord's  own  due  time  to  all  the  nations  of  the  earth.  Jack- 
son county,  Missouri,  is  the  one  locality  about  which  the  Lord  said, 
"Zion  shall  not  be  moved  out  of  its  place,"  and  while  we  are  now 
here  in  these  mountains  and  Salt  Lake  City  contains  our  central  stakes 
at  the  present  time,  Jackson  county,  Missouri,  will  nevertheless  be  a 
capital,  a  headquarters,  the  place  where  a  great  temple  shall  be  built 
unto  which  Christ  shall  come  in  his  own  due  time. 

We  are  proud,  also  that  we  did  not  become  discouraged  because 
we  were  driven  from  our  first  location.  For  after  the  mobbers  had 
robbed  us  of  our  homes  in  Jackson  county,  we  had  courage  enough  to 
cross  the  Missouri  river  and  try  again,  and  thus  we  became  success- 
ful colonizers  also  in  Clay  county,  Missouri,  in  1833-1836. 

Then  speaking  of  what  we  did  a  little  later,  we  are  quite  satisfied 
with  our  achievements  in  the  upper  counties  of  Missouri.  We  can 
truthfully  say  that  in  going  into  an  open  prairie  country,  where  there 
were  only  four  families  living  at  the  time,  in  the  course  of  three  years 
we  had  between  twelve  and  fifteen  thousand  Latter-day  Saints,  occupy- 
ing Caldwell,  Daviess,  Ray  and  other  neighboring  counties.  We  turned 
the  naked  prairie  into  fertile  and  thickly  populated  farming  districts. 
We  founded  the  city  of  Far  West  which,  at  the  time  of  its  prosperity, 
contained  something  like  two  thousand  inhabitants.  We  also  com- 
menced the  city  of  Adam-ondi-Ahman,  and  purchased  the  town  of 


ELDER  ANDREW  JEN  SON 


129 


De  Witt,  in  Carroll  county,  besides  building  quite  a  number  of  vil- 
lages in  that  part  of  the  country.  I  will  venture  to  say  that  we  are  a 
little  proud  of  our  pioneer  achievements  in  the  state  of  Missouri. 

We  are  also  a  little  proud  when  we  think  of  Kirtland,  Ohio,  to 
which  place  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  moved  early  in  1831.  He  found 
there  only  a  few  families,  but  in  the  course  of  a  few  years  the  Saints 
had  two  thousand  souls  gathered  in  Kirtland,  and  built  their  first 
temple,  which  still  stands. 

We  are  even  more  satisfied  with  what  we  did  as  pioneers  and 
colonizers  in  Illinois.  When  the  Saints,  who  had  been  driven  out  of 
Missouri,  robbed  and  plundered  by  mobs,  came  to  the  little  village  of 
Commerce,  they  found  a  few  inhabitants,  who  were  struggling  in  vain 
to  build  up  a  town  on  the  banks  of  the  Mississippi  river,  but  had  only 
succeeded  in  building  up  a  graveyard  on  the  side  of  the  hill,  although 
they  had  plenty  of  means  wherewith  to  establish  a  settlement  in  the 
western  country.  The  Saints,  who  followed  these  people  feel  pleased 
and  satisfied  when  they  consider  the  labor  that  was  done  there  by  them 
through  the  blessings  of  the  Lord. 

And  let  me  not  forget  to  add  that  in  all  these  instances  it  was  not 
only  our  Christian  endeavor  and  our  union,  that  caused  success  to 
come  to  us,  but  we  sincerely  believe  that  God  was  on  our  side.  We 
were  a  God-fearing  people ;  we  prayed  to  the  Lord  then  as  we  pray 
new  invoking  his  blessings  upon  our  labors,  and  it  seems  to  me  that 
the  Lord  took  special  delight  to  prove  to  the  world  that  it  mattered  but 
little  whether  his  Saints  were  located  in  a  desolate  or  a  good  country, 
for  he  would  take  care  of  them  anywhere ;  he  could  temper  the  elements 
for  their  sake  and  make  them  prosperous.  And  thus  it  came  to  pass 
that  right  there  in  Hancock  county,  Illinois,  where  the  rich  people 
who  preceded  us  as  settlers  had  not  been  able  to  build  up  a  village,  the 
Saints,  in  the  course  of  five  or  six  years,  built  up  the  beautiful  city 
of  Nauvoo,  with  a-million-dollar  temple  in  the  center  of  it;  it  was 
at  the  time  of  its  prosperity  the  largest  city  in  the  state  of  Illinois.  By 
what  I  have  said,  it  will  be  seen  that  we  had  considerable  experience  as 
pioneers  before  we  were  driven  westward  and  before  we  came  to  the 
Rocky  Mountains. 

We  are  very  well  satisfied  also  with  the  history  of  the  Mormon 
Battalion.  The  Saints  who  were  exiled  from  Nauvoo,  in  1846,  had 
expected  to  reach  the  Rocky  Mountains  that  year,  but  did  not  succeed 
in  carrying  out  their  plans  because  a  call  came  from  Washington,  D.  C, 
for  five  hundred  of  the  "Mormon"  men  to  go  into  the  war  with 
Mexico;  and  it  seemed  that  this  was  a  great  sacrifice  and  a  number 
of  our  co-religionists  could  not  understand  why  the  Saints  should  re- 
spond to  a  call  to  fight  for  a  government  which  had  neglected  to  de- 
fend them  against  mobs;  but  good  counsel  prevailed,  and  the  bat- 
talion marched  west ;  and  among  many  other  things  connected  with 
the  history  of  the  Church  with  which  we  are  pleased  is  the  achieve- 
ments of  the  Mormon  Battalion,  and  the  way  these  "Mormon"  boys 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


behaved  themselves  as  Christians  and  soldiers.  The  effect  which 
their  good  example  had  upon  the  civilization  of  California  at  an  early 
date  is  most  remarkable.  It  is  a  chapter  of  Church  history  that  we  like 
to  write,  and  while  it  is  already  partly  written,  it  will  be  written  in 
more  detail  hereafter. 

When  we  speak  of  Winter  Quarters,  located  near  the  present  site 
of  the  city  of  Omaha,  we  are  just  a  little  pleased  to  know  that  Winter 
Quarters  was  the  first  Anglo-Saxon  settlement  in  what  is  now  the 
State  of  Nebraska.  We  were  successful  there,  as  is  well  known,  in 
building  up  a  Christian  community  in  an  Indian  country.  We  had  a 
Church  organization  there  with  twenty-two  wards,  in  which  for  a 
couple  of  years  (1846-1848)  we  had  great  success,  comparatively 
speaking;  and,  as  I  say,  it  was  the  first  Anglo-Saxon  civilization  in 
that  part  of  the  United  States. 

A  majority  of  the  members  of  the  Mormon  Battalion,  marching 
westward,  reached  California  in  due  course  of  time,  but  others  became 
worn  out  with  fatigue  on  the  long  journey.  There  were  sick  men 
among  them,  besides  women  and  children,  who  were  considered  unable 
to  cross  the  great,  sandy  American  deserts,  through  what  is  now 
Ntw  Mexico  and  Arizona  and  the  eastern  parts  of  California;  hence, 
some  of  the  Battalion  boys  were  sent  northward  and  camped  during 
the  winter  of  1846-1847  on  the  Arkansas  river,  at  a  place  called 
Pueblo;  and  we  are  just  a  little  pleased  to  think  that  that  little  Anglo- 
Saxon  settlement,  formed  by  the  sick  detachment  of  the  Mormon 
Battalion,  and  a  small  company  of  Saints  from  the  State  of  Mississippi, 
etc.,  was  the  first  Anglo-Saxon  settlement  in  what  is  now  the  State  of 
Colorado. 

We  are  satisfied  also  with  what  we  did  after  our  arrival  in  the 
valley  of  the  Great  Salt  Lake,  the  next  year,  1847,  we  being  the 
founders  of  this  beautiful  city,  the  like  of  which  there  is  none  in  the 
United  States,  nor  in  all  the  world.  Some  of  us  have  circumnavigated 
the  globe,  and  I  wish  to  say  this  to  you  :  Go  where  you  may  in  the 
different  lands  and  climes  on  earth,  and  you  will  not  find  a  city  just 
like  our  own  beloved  Salt  Lake  City,  with  its  broad  streets,  its  majestic 
temple,  its  unique  tabernacle,  its  attractive  assembly  hall  and  many 
other  things  that  adorn  our  city,  which  are  not  to  be  found  elsewhere 
in  the  whole  world.  And  we  are  more  than  pleased  to  think  that  our 
city  was  founded  by  a  God-fearing  people,  men  and  women  who  put 
their  trust  in  God,  and  who  sought  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his 
righteousness,  relying'  upon  the  promise  that  other  things  should  be 
added  unto  them.  This  city,  the  most  beautiful  city  in  the  world, 
and  a  number  of  other  cities  and  towns  existing  in  this  Rocky  Moun- 
tain region,  testify  of  temporal  blessings  that  have  come  to  a  people 
who  have  faith  in  God. 

After  we  had  been  in  this  central  valley  a  while,  we  extended  our 
settlements  north,  south,  east,  and  west.  We  are  quite  pleased  to 
think  that  when  Thomas  S.  Smith,  of  Farmington,  was  called,  in  1855, 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON 


131 


to  go  north  and  locate  a  settlement  among  the  Indians  near  the  Salmon 
river,  he  and  his  company  of  pioneers  became  the  first  Anglo-Saxon 
settlers  in  what  is  now  the  State  of  Idaho.  We  are  pleased  with  the 
labors  of  Apostle  Orson  Hyde,  in  the  year  1853,  when  he  and  others 
were  called  to  settle  Fort  Supply,  near  Green  river,  which  was  the 
first  Anglo-Saxon  settlement  in  wihat  is  now  the  state  of  Wyoming. 
We  are  quite  pleased  also  to  think  that  we  were  the  first  settlers  in 
Nevada.  Our  boys,  who  had  served  in  the  Mormon  Battalion,  in  re- 
turning from  California  to  join  their  families  in  the  valley  of  the 
Great  Salt  Lake,  found  that  beautiful  valley  in  which  Carson  City, 
the  capital  of  Nevada,  now  stands.  Enoch  Rees  and  others  were 
called  by  President  Brigham  Young  to  settle  there  as  "Mormon''  pio- 
neers, and  afterwards  Orson  Hyde  organized  a  stake  of  Zion  which 
flourished  for  a  while  in  that  part  of  our  country. 

It  also  gives  us  considerable  satisfaction  to  think  that  in  the 
year  1846,  some  of  the  Saints  who  resided  in  or  near  the  cities  of 
New  York  and  Boston,  and  others  as  far  east  as  Maine,  decided  to 
embark  on  a  long  voyage  in  order  to  reach  the  new  gathering  place  of 
the  Saints,  instead  of  crossing  the  great  continent  of  America.  They 
chartered  the  ship  Brooklyn,  set  sail  from  New  York,  doubled  Cape 
Horn,  touched  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  and  arrived  in  the  Bay  of  San 
Francisco  one  year  before  President  Young  and  his  .pioneers  arrived 
in  the  Great  Salt  Lake  Valley.  We  are  just  a  little  proud  to  think 
that  these  same  Latter-day  Saints,  about  230  strong,  almost  imme- 
diately after  their  arrival  in  California  changed  a  little,  insignificant 
Spanish  village,  called  Yerba  Buena,  into  an  Anglo-Saxon  town,  the 
present  San  Francisco.  We  are  also  a  little  pleased  to  know  that  the 
beautiful  San  Joaquin  Valley,  in  California,  was  first  settled  by 
Latter-day  Saints.  Some  of  those  who  arrived  in  California  on 
the  Brooklyn  were  farmers  who  came  from  the  rural  districts  of  New 
England,  and  as  they  could  not  see  any  opportunity  for  successful 
farming  on  that  sandy  stretch  on  which  San  Francisco  is  built,  they 
naturally  looked  into  the  interior  of  the  country,  and  there  found  the 
place  where  the  two  rivers,  the  San  Joaquin  and  the  Stanislaus,  join 
together,  and  here  they  established  Port  Hope,  the  first  Anglo-Saxon 
settlement  in  that  beautiful  valley  of  California,  which  now  contains 
seven  of  the  most  flourishing  counties  of  that  state. 

I  could  continue  my  historical  narrative  but  the  time  is  limited, 
because  there  are  other  speakers.  I  refer  to  these  incidents  of  his- 
tory, my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  inspire  you  with  courage,  and  to  im- 
press upon  your  minds  the  fact  that  it  is  not  alone  what  we  intend 
to  do — though  we  believe  we  have  a  far  greater  future  than  we  have 
had  a  past — but  that  we  have  already  done  certain  things  in  the  past 
which  should  encourage  us  and  our  children.  When  our  children  learn 
what  their  parents  and  grandparents  have  done,  they  should  naturally 
place  more  confidence  and  reliance  on  the  Lord,  and  believe  that  he 
will  sustain  them  and  bless  them  and  give  them  success,  as  he  has 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


given  their  parents  before  them  success ;  for  we  are  destined  to  fill 
up  America  with  settlements  of  the  Saints  and  stakes  of  Zion.  North 
and  South  America  is  the  land  of  Zion  itself,  and  when  we  have 
President  Pratt  presiding  over  this  open-air  meeting  today,  we  must 
not  forget  that  he  is  also  presiding  over  a  mission  that  is  perhaps  des- 
tined to  become  one  of  the  greatest  and  most  important  missions  of 
the  Church.  The  Mexican  mission,  when  it  flourishes,  will  be  able  to 
produce  an  element  that  can  fulfil  every  prediction  we  have  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon  concerning  the  Lamanites.  We  may  perhaps  be 
forced  to  acknowledge  that  our  nomadic  Indians  in  the  United  States 
have  disappointed  us  to  a  certain  extent;  for  they  have  not  embraced 
the  gospel  in  such  numbers  as  we  had  expected,  and  some  of  those 
who  did  embrace  it,  after  our  missionaries  had  spent  the  best  part  of 
dieir  lives  among  them,  did  not  remain  faithful.  But  there  are  mil- 
lions and  millions  of  another  class  of  Lamanites,  more  civilized,  in  the 
South,  and  we  hope  the  time  will  come  when  they  will  embrace  the 
gospel  in  large  numbers,  and  thus  be  able  to  fulfil  everything  con- 
tained in  the  Book  of  Mormon  by  way  of  prediction  concerning  that 
race.  And  not  only  do  we  expect  the  Mexican  mission  to  become  most 
successful,  but  we  also  expect  in  the  near  future  to  preach  the  gospel 
in  Russia,  in  the  Balkan  peninsula,  in  Persia,  India,  and  all  over  the 
world.  Nationalities  which  formerly  closed  their  doors  against  us 
will  undoubtedly,  sometime  in  the  future,  allow  us  to  enter  their  coun- 
tries and  declare  to  the  people,  as  we  have  done  for  these  many  years 
in  the  United  States  and  in  other  countries,  that  God  indeed  has 
spoken  from  heaven  in  these  last  days  and  has  raised  up  a  great  Anglo- 
Saxon  prophet  to  restore  the  true  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  the  earth 
once  more.  The  name  of  that  prophet  shall  yet  be  known  by  millions 
throughout  the  world. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  would  like  you  to  understand 
that  you  belong  to  the  greatest  gospel  dispensation  that  has  ever  been 
commenced  upon  the  face  of  the  earth;  every  other  dispensation  of 
God's  Providence  has  come  to  an  end,  but  in  this  particular  instance, 
when  God  restored  the  Priesthood  in  our  day,  it  was  understood  that 
it  should  remain  upon  the  earth  forevermore.  I  believe  sincerely  that 
the  time  will  never  come  when  historians  shall  write  the  history  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  as  a  people  who  once  flourished  on  the  earth, 
but  are  no  more,  for  we  shall  remain  for  ever,  and  out  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  will  eventually  come  forth  the 
Kingdom  of  God,  which  shall  govern  the  whole  world  in  righteous- 
ness. Let  us  hope  for  a  great  future ;  let  us  hope  for  better  times  than 
those  we  now  have.  Let.  us  hope  that  men  may  become  better  Christ- 
ians than  they  are  now  or  have  been  of  late  years.  Let  us  hope  for 
the  time  to  come  when  we  Latter-day  Saints  may  be  more  faithful 
than  we  have  been  in  the  past.  Yet  after  all,  our  greatest  success  will 
come  when  Christ  shall  reign  as  King  of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords.  In 
the  meantime,  we  must  try  to  the  best  of  our  ability  to  extend  the 
borders  of  Zion,  build  stakes  where  there  are  no  stakes  now ;  and 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON 


133 


then  look  forward  to  the  time  when  Christ  shall  personally  acknowledge 
us  as  his  people.  Then  comes  the  glorious  time  of  which  we  think 
when  we  sing,  "Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah,"  and 
when  "millions  shall  know  Brother  Joseph  again." 

And  now,  by  way  of  conclusion,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  let  me 
allude  once  again  to  what  I  sa'd  in  the  beginning  of  my  remarks ; 
Keep  your  own  records,  you  heads  of  families ;  do  not  rely  altogether 
upon  anything  that  we  historians  may  do.  You  may  rely  upon  us  10 
a  certain  extent,  but  not  altogether,  because  you  are  too  numerous.  We 
cannot  reach  every  individual,  and  yet  every  faithful  man  and  woman 
in  the  Church  has  a  history  that  is  worth  writing  and  is  worthy  to  be 
handed  down  to  future  generations,  for  the  benefit  of  thousands  who 
should  profit  by  their  experience.  And  so  my  instructions,  my  ad- 
vice, my  pleadings  with  you  are  to  the  effect  that  you  will  not  over- 
look this  fact,  that  record-keeping  is  a  matter  of  the  greatest  import- 
ance, and  that  you  should  keep  your  ow|n  records.  All  members  of  the 
Church  should  know  when  they  were  baptized,  when  they  were  con- 
firmed, when  they  were  ordained  to  the  Priesthood,  etc.  We  have  a 
way  of  tracing  the  Priesthood  held  by  every  man  in  the  Church  back 
to  Peter,  James  and  John,  but  unless  you  help  us  in  this  matter  by 
giving  us  your  personal  record  we  may  not  be  able  to  reach  you.  Again 
I  say,  make  your  own  individual  records ;  find  out  who  ordained  you, 
who  baptized  you,  who  baptized  your  children,  etc.,  and  then,  if  you 
find  it  necessary,  come  to  the  Historian's  Office,  and  we  will  try  to 
connect  you  up  with  the  past,  so  that  every  man  who  bears  the  holy 
Priesthood,  and  every  man  or  woman  who  has  a  membership  in  the 
Church,  will  be  able  to  prove  by  written  documents  that  they  are 
members,  that  they  have  been  baptized  and  blessed  by  "one  having  di- 
vine authority,"  and  that  they  have  been  ordained  by  those  who  held 
the  Priesthood  before  them.  If  you  will  observe  this  word  of  counsel, 
you  shall  rejoice  at  some  future  day.  Let  us  all  feel  interested  in  be- 
queathing to  our  children  truth,  true  history,  facts  that  cannot  be 
successfully  contradicted.    God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

Our  next  speaker  will  be  Elder  Joseph  F.  Smith,  who  has  lately 
returned  from  a  mission  to  the  Hawaiian  Islands.  He  is  a  grandson 
of  our  late  beloved  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  a  son  of  the  late 
Elder  Hyrum  M.  Smith,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 

As  I  look  out  over  this  congregation  this  morning  and  see  men 
who  are  older  than  I,  who  are  wiser  than  I,  who  are  richer  in  intelli- 
gence than  I  am,  the  place  which  I  hold  at  this  time  takes  upon  it 
an  awful  responsibility,  and  I  would  solicit  your  faith  and  your  in- 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


terest  for  the  time  that  I  occupy  this  position,  that  what  I  say  may 
be  fruitful,  at  least  in  some  hearts. 

Brother  Jenson  has  told  you  that  we  are  a  little  satisfied  with 
some  of  the  achievements  of  the  early  people  of  the  Church.  We  are 
satisfied,  we  are  proud  to  think  that  our  forebears  have  done  the  work 
they  have  done :  but,  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  not  enough  to  be  sat- 
isfied with  what  has  been  done.  The  question,  in  my  mind,  that 
confronts  us,  is,  Shall  our  children  be  satisfied  with  the  things  we 
are  doing  now?  Are  we  pushing  forward  the  Kingdom  of  God  here 
upon  the  earth  as  the  Lord  would  have  us  do  it?  Are  we  doing  our 
work  successfully,  so  that  our  children  may,  in  time  to  come,  say  that 
they  are  satisfied,  that  they  are  pleased  with  the  work  that  we  are  doing 
now  ? 

We  are  doing  a  great  missionary  work  throughout  the  world.  As 
has  be:n  announced,  I  have  recently  returned  from  Hawaii,  where  a 
remarkable  missionary  work  is  being  carried  on.  In  Honolulu  they 
are  building  a  new  chapel.  The  Saints  are  donating  their  time  to  the 
building  of  that  chapel.  They  are  spending  no  money  except  for 
actual  material,  and  the  work  is  being  given ;  and  I  have  seen  men 
night  after  night  after  they  are  through  with  their  daily  voca- 
tion, turn  out  to  that  building  and  haul  concrete  until  half-past  twelve 
and  one  o'clock  in  the  morning.  Now,  those  men  would  not  do  it 
for  wages.  You  could  not  hire  men  to  work  like  that  for  money.  It 
is  the  same  spirit  working  upon  them  that  worked  upon  their  fore- 
fathers ;  it  is  the  same  spirit  that  brought  the  pioneers  across  the 
plains  that  is  having  those  Hawaiian  brethren  working  hour  after 
hour  building  that  chapel,  that  they  can  have  a  place  to  meet  that  will 
be  a  credit  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  ■  that  they  can  have  a  place  in 
which  to  meet  that  they  will  not  be  ashamed  of. 

But  in  my  mind  the  place  where  there  is  the  need  of  the  greatest 
missionary  work  in  the  world  is  Salt  Lake  City.  We  send  missionaries 
out  into  the  world,  and  they  do  remarkable  Work,  but  there  is  great 
need  for  missionary  work  right  here  in  Zion,  right  where  we  live. 
How  many  of  us  can  say  that  our  community  is  benefited  by  our 
being  "Mormons"  and  our  living  in  it?  How  many  of  us  can  say  our 
city  is  being  helped  because  we  are  living  up  to  the  doctrines  of  the 
gospel?  If  we  are  living  that  kind  of  life,  then  indeed  we  are  ful- 
filling our  mission  upon  the  earth. 

I  think  that  our  young  people  particularly  have  need  to  look  to 
the  gospel.  I  speak  so  because  I  am  one  of  the  young  people  of  the 
Church.  In  many  instances  I  feel  that  our  young  people  are  losing 
their  sense  of  relative  value.  They  are  losing  sense  of  the  big  things 
in  life.  We  need  to  know  the  gospel.  "The  glory  of  God  is  intelli- 
gence,'' and  we  cannot  obey  the  gospel  intelligently  unless  we  know 
what  the  gospel  is  and  what  its  laws  are.  And  we  have  them.  Occa- 
sionally I  have  heard  people  complain  and  wonder  why  we  do  not 
have  more  revelation,  why  the  Lord  is  not  continuing  his  revelation. 
Goodness,  gracious,  how  can  he  give  us  more  until  we  understand 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH,  III 


135 


what  he  has  already  given?  Our  scripture  is  full,  and  how  many  of 
us  take  the  time  to  read  it  intelligently?  How  many  of  us  take  the 
time  to  go  to  our  Father  in  heaven  and  ask  him  to  help  us  to  under- 
stand his  word?  Because  the  things  of  God  are  understood  by  the 
Spirit  of  God,  and  we  cannot  understand  his  word,  simple  and  plain 
as  it  is,  unless  we  have  his  Spirit  to  be  with  us.  That  is  the  reason  the 
world  has  gone  astray.  They  have  the  Bible,  but  they  have  lost  the 
interpretation  that  the  Lord  meant  for  it.  They  have  not  been  willing 
to  take  God  at  his  own  word.  Christ  spent  his  ministry  here  teaching 
people,  explaining  the  gospel,  and  it  was  only  a  very  few  hundred 
years  after  that  when  men  met  together  to  put  their  own  interpretation 
upon  the  scriptures,  and  as  a  result  the  scriptures  among  learned  men 
of  the  world  has  fallen  into  disrepute.  They  have  rejected  the  Bible 
as  a  result  of  the  great  and  false  interpretations  that  have  been  put 
upon  it.  They  have  not  been  able  to  strip  it  of  the  false  interpretations, 
and  see  and  understand  it  as  it  is. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  want  to  bear  you  my  testimony  to 
the  truth  of  the  gospel  of  Christ.  I  feel  in  every  fibre  of  my  being 
that  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  It  is  the  thing  that  will 
save  us,  every  one,  individually,  if  we  will  put  into  our  daily  lives  the 
practice  of  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel.  It  is  here  for  us, 
and  it  will  be  our  fault  if  we  do  not  make  the  best  of  it.  Young  peo- 
ple, understand  the  gospel ;  attend  to  your  meetings.  Sometimes  when 
I  get  out  among  our  young  people  and  they  do  not  seem  to  see  things 
just  as  I  see  them,  I  feel  as  if  I  could  almost  suffocate  if  I  could  not 
get  them  to  see.  There  is  much  about  the  gospel  that  I  do  not  un- 
derstand, and  I  do  not  ever  hope  to  understand  it  all.  If  I  did,  I 
would  hope  to  be  perfect  some  day — which  I  do  not.  I  expect  to  be 
able  to  progress  throughout  all  my  existence ;  but  there  is  enough' — 
the  testimony  in  me  is  strong  enough — to  make  me  feel  that  when  I 
run  across  something  I  do  not  understand,  that  through  my  faith- 
fulness there  will  come  a  time  when  1  can  understand  it. 

It  would  be  presumptuous  for  me  to  talk  longer  when  there  are 
men  better  able  to  talk  than  I  am.  I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  that 
this  is  the  true  gospel  of  Christ,  and  that  the  salvation  of  the  world 
will  be  brought  about  through  our  taking  upon  ourselves  the  responsi- 
bility of  preaching  the  gospel.  Three  years  ago  Brother  Levi  Edgar 
Young  spoke  in  conference  and  made  this  statement,  which  I  remem- 
ber well,  "There  can  be  no  solution  to  our  economic,  social,  or  political 
problems  until  the  world  accepts  the  Christ."  And  it  is  true,  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  and  the  faster  we  get  in  and  understand  the  gospel, 
sisters,  the  faster  will  the  world  accept  the  Christ,  the  sooner  will  the 
the  faster  we  go  out  and  do  missionary  work  among  our  brethren  and 
world  be  prepared  for  Christ's  coming. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  to  help  us  to  understand  his  work,  to  be 
faithful  sons  and  daughters,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Je=',c  Christ.  Amen. 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  JUNIUS  F.  WELLS 

{Assistant  Church  Historian) 

The  last  time  I  had  the  pleasure  of  speaking  at  an  outdoor  meet- 
ing was  in  London,  in  Hyde  Park,  a  year  ago  last  June.  I  went  up 
there  to  look  for  a  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints,  as  I  supposed 
there  might  be  an  outdoor  meeting.  I  found  near  the  Marble  Arch,  in 
the  northern  part  of  the  park,  several  congregations :  one  of  Catholics, 
one  of  Lutherans,  one  of  Free  Thinkers,  some  Socialists.  They  were 
all  holding  forth,  far  enough  apart  from  one  another,  not  to  confuse 
one  another  in  their  services.  I  looked  for  some  time  before  I  found, 
off  at  one  side,  a  small  number  who  were  singing,  "O,  my  Father." 
And  then  I  knew  that  I  was  in  the  right  direction  for  our  own  congre- 
gation. I  went  up  to  them,  and  found  a  young  man  had  just  stepped 
forward  to  speak  as  the  hymn  closed.  His  name  is  Andre  Anastasiou, 
a  born  Russian,  who  had  been  converted  to  the  gospel  four  or  five 
years  before.  He  had  become  a  very  zealous  and  active  member  of 
the  Church ;  holding  the  Priesthood,  he  was  filled  with  an  ambition  to 
proclaim  the  truth,  ultimately,  to  his  own  countrymen.  He  was  a 
student  of  law  in  King's  College,  London.  He  had  learned  the  Eng- 
lish language,  to  speak  it  quite  fluently.  I  listened  to  him  with  in- 
terest as  he  was  speaking.  Presently  three  or  four  fellows  in  the 
congregation,  who  had  come  there  on  purpose  to  nag  the  "Mormons," 
began  to  interrupt  him.  I  had  not  let  it  be  known  that  I  was  of  that 
faith.  I  stood  with  the  rest  of  the  small  congregation ;  I  had  a 
Panama  hat  on  and  kept  it  on,  and  so  was  not  recognized.  When  those 
fellows  got  to  interrupting  too  much,  I  stepped  forward  and  pointed  to 
them  and  held  up  my  hand  to  my  ear  (I  only  hear  with  two-fifths  of 
one  ear),  and  I  said  to  them:  "Be  still;  I  want  to  hear  what  this 
man  has  to  say."  That  caused  them  to  be  still,  and  they  listened,  and 
Elder  Anastasiou  completed  his  discourse.  He  delivered  a  very  won- 
derful message,  with  a  fine  testimony. 

As  he  was  nearing  the  end,  I  drew  nearer  to  him  and  told  him 
that  I  was  Elder  Wells ;  that  I  had  come  from  Liverpool,  and  would 
follow  him.  So,  presently,  he  quit.  The  congregation  commenced  to 
move,  just  as  the  back  part  of  this  congregation  is  moving  a  little  now, 
and  so,  as  soon  as  I  stepped  forward  and  took  his  place,  I  called  out 
in  a  loud  voice,  "I  was  born  in  Salt  Lake  City."  You  should  have 
seen  how  the  people  turned  and  drew  about  me  again.  I  was  at  once 
a  curiosity.  Of  the  Catholic  congregation,  a  large  part  came  over, 
and  from  the  Lutheran  congregation,  and  some  of  the  others;  so, 
presently,  we  had  a  large — certainly  the  largest — congregation  as- 
sembled there  on  that  Sunday  morning;  not  so  large,  however,  as  I 
see  before  me  now. 

It  is  a  great  pleasure,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  go  out  in  the 
world  and  meet  the  congregations  of  unbelievers,  to  deliver  to  man- 
kind, irrespective  of  their  faiths,  whatever  they  may  be  or  have  been 


ELDER  JUNIUS  F.  WELLS 


137 


in  the  past,  our  message ;  for  we  have  a  message  to  deliver  to  our 
fellow  creatures.  We  are  called  upon  by  the  sublime  authority,  the 
highest  of  all,  God  himself,  to  declare  to  his  children  that  he  lives, 
that  he  is,  that  he  has  spoken  from  the  heavens ;  and  deliver  to  his 
children  a  message  that  has  been  committed  to  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
Holding  the  Priesthood,  with  the  authority  to  speak  in  the  name  of 
God,  we  have  to  proclaim  the  principles  of  the  gospel  of  life  and  sal- 
vation, and  to  call  all  men  to  repentance  of  their  sins,  that  they  may 
come  into  the  brotherhood  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  de- 
clare to  those  who  listen  to  our  message  and  give  heed  to  it,  that  if 
they  will  follow  the  counsel  and  instruction  we  are  sent  forth  to  give 
them,  they  shall  come  to  a  like  testimony  and  knowledge  of  the  truth 
of  our  message.  We  have  the  courage  to  do  this  and  dare  challenge 
mankind  to  put  our  testimony  to  the  test.  We  say  to  every  man  what 
Peter  of  old  said :  "Repent,  and  be  baptized  every  one  of  you,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  ye  shall  receive 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost;  for  the  promise  is  unto  you  and  to  your 
children,  and  to  all  that  are  afar  off,  even  as  many  as  the  Lord  our 
God  shall  call."  That  is  our  proclamation  to  all  the  world,  to  every 
nation  and  kindred  and  tongue  and  people.  Whosoever  sets  himself  up 
to  proclaim  any  other  gospel  than  this,  we  challenge  to  a  proof  of  his 
divine  authority ;  and  of  his  right  to  call  upon  any  of  his  fellow 
creatures  to  repent,  in  the  expectation  that  he  shall  come  to  a  knowl- 
edge and  the  certain  testimony  that  he  is  accepted  of  God,  in  the  con- 
gregation and  brotherhood  of  the  Saints,  and  is  approved  of  our 
Father  in  heaven.  So  we  say,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  it  is  a 
delight  to  go  forth  in  the  world  and  proclaim  this  glorious  message; 
because  we  may  and  can  and  do  so  without  fear. 

I  feel  to  rejoice  with  all  my  heart  in  the  sight  that  is  before  me; 
td  think  that  the  great  tabernacle  cannot  hold  the  multitude  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  assembled  at  this  conference.  In  addition  to  those  in  there, 
the  Assembly  Hall  is  crowded,  and  here  on  the  outside  is  a  congre- 
gation that  would  fill  it  pretty  well,  listening  to  the  servants  of  God 
bear  their  testimony. 

I  remember  when  the  Bowery  stood  just  north  of  here.  I  remem- 
ber when  the  old  adobe  tabernacle  stood  there  in  the  southwest  corner 
of  this  block.  There  was  a  bowery  at  the  north  of  that.  I  remember 
when  the  first  stones  were  laid  for  the  new  tabernacle,  and  have  seen 
it  and  the  temple  in  process  of  building.  I  have  played  upon  the  walls 
of  the  temple  all  my  early  life,  and  remember  when  they  were  not 
above  the  foundation.  I  think  I  have  said  my  prayers  on  nearly 
every  step,  as  the  building  was  raised  to  the  top — on  those  circu- 
lar steps  in  the  corners ;  for  this  was  my  playground ;  I  was  born  across 
the  road  from  here.  I  have  known  the  men  who  have  officiated  in 
this  Church,  personally,  intimately,  and  have  been  closely  associated 
with  them  all  my  life.  I  bear  testimony  that  they  were  men  of  God.  I 
knew  Brigham  Young,  have  sat  on  his  lap,  called  him  "Uncle  Brig- 


138 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ham,"  and  was  treated  by  him  almost  as  one  of  his  own  children.  I 
knew  his  counselors,  Heber  C.  Kimball,  and  George  A.  Smith,  and 
those  of  the  twelve  apostles  who  have  administered  here.  I  did  not 
know  Parley  P.  Pratt,  the  grandfather  of  the  man  who  is  presiding 
at  this  meeting,  but  I  knew  his  father,  Helaman,  and  himself — three 
generations  of  faithful  missionaries,  declaring  the  gospel  that  I  am 
proclaiming  to  you  now. 

Do  you  think  the  world  realizes  how  strong  we  Latter-day  Saints 
are  today?  Do  you  think  you  could  portray  to  a  congregation  in  Hyde 
Park,  London,  the  truth,  and  have  them  realize  what  I  am  looking 
upon  in  this  assembly?  Not  at  all.  They  think  that  "Utah  City"  is 
some  sort  of  a  place  out  here  in  the  Rocky  Mountains,  surrounded  by 
a  high  wall,  into  which  we  gather  a  few  of  those  poor  girls  from 
Great  Britain  and  make  plural  wives  of  them.  The  ignorance  of  the 
world  concerning  the  Latter-day  Saints,  in  view  of  the  fact  of  the 
marvelous  progress  that  is  being  made  in  the  multifarious  means  of 
communication,  is  something  that  is  dense  indeed.  The  prophet  who 
saw  a  time  when  "darkness  shall  cover  the  earth,  and  gross  darkness 
the  people"  must  have  been  looking  upon  people  of  the  present  day 
world,  out  in  London  for  instance,  the  greatest  city  on  earth,  where 
gross  darkness  concerning  the  Church,  concerning  this  people  and 
the  work  of  God,  concerning  the  character  of  God  himself,  is  dense 
as  the  darkness  of  Egypt. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  do  not  wish  to  prolong  my  re- 
marks. I  Wish  to  close  with  a  testimony  to  you  that  the  work  that  we 
Latter-day  Saints  are  engaged  in  is  the  truth ;  that  it  is  God-given ; 
that  it  has  been  preserved  by  his  providence,  by  his  loving  care ;  that 
it  is  of  far  more  consequence  to  him  than  it  can  be  to  any  one  of 
us ;  and  that  every  little  effort  which  any  one  of  us  puts  forward,  in 
the  authority  of  the  holy  Priesthood  to  proclaim  the  truth  and  declare 
our  message  to  our  fellow  creatures,  is  taken  up  and  magnified  by 
unseen  associates  and  powers  under  the  control  of  God,  and  is  carried 
on  with  influence  and  power  that  we  little  comprehend  to  the  con- 
version of  the  honest  in  heart;  the  seeking  out  and  searching  for  the 
House  of  Israel ;  the  bringing  to  pass  of  the  glorious  purposes  of  our 
Father  and  God,  in  the  establishment  of  his  Church  and  kingdom  on 
earth  in  power.  The  day  is  at  hand  when  this  work  shall  be  recog- 
nized as  established  upon  the  earth  in  power — "Thy  people  shall  be 
willing  in  the  day  of  thy  power." 

It  is  for  us  to  qualify  by  fidelity  to  the  truth ;  by  faithfulness  in 
our  prayers ;  by  observance  of  our  duties  as  Latter-day  Saints  in  our 
lives,  to  carry  in  power  to  the  ends  of  the  earth  this  message  of  Al- 
mighty God  to  his  children;  to  come  out  from  Babylon,  from  wicked- 
ness, from  darkness  and  error  and  sin,  into  the  light  of  everlasting  life, 
through  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord  and  Savior.  Amen. 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT  139 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

(President  of  the  Mexican  Mission) 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  my  voice  will 
carry  sufficiently  far  so  that  all  of  you  may  hear.  It  is  to  me  this 
morning  an  inspiration  to  see  this  wonderful  congregation  before  me. 
I  have  had  the  privilege  in  conferences  that  are  past  of  speaking  from 
these  steps  to  the  congregations  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  overflow 
open  air  meetings,  but  I  think  never  before  have  I  seen  so  many 
people  who  were  not  able  to  enter  the  great  buildings,  the  Tabernacle 
and  the  Assembly  Hall,  and  who  because  of  their  desire  to  hear  the 
word  of  the  Lord  have  congregated  themselves  upon  these  grounds. 
We  are  truly  blessed  of  the  Lord  today  in  the  magnificent  weather.  It 
is  wonderful  how  mild  it  is  and  how  comfortable  we  are  here  this 
morning,  although  I  realize  perfectly  well  that  you  are  becoming  tired 
from  standing.  But  ii  will  only  be  once  or  twice  a  year  that  you  will 
be  asked  to  do  this,  and  I  would  say,  brethren  and  sisters,  we  would 
appreciate  it  greatly  if  you  will  hear  us  through.  My  only  desire  in 
speaking  to  you  this  morning  is  to  teach  you  the  truth  concerning  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  find  here  recorded  in  Amos  these  wonderful  words,  "Surely 
the  Lord  God  will  do  nothing  but  he  revealeth  his  secrets  unto  his 
servants  the  prophets."  And  I  should  like  to  turn  and  read  to  you 
the  scripture  that  is  given  to  the  world  in  what  is  known  as  the  Articles 
of  Faith.  "We  believe  all  that  God  has  revealed,  all  that  he  does  now 
reveal,  and  we  believe  that  he  will  yet  reveal  many  great  and  important 
things  pertaining  to  the  kingdom  of  God." 

I  bear  you  my  testimony,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  founded  and  is  established  upon  the  principle 
of  revelation,  and  that  is  the  message  that  we  have  borne  to  the  world 
since  Joseph  Smith  announced  that  God  himself  had  spoken  to  him, 
that  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  had  come  and  revealed  his  mind  and  will 
unto  him,  and  we  hold  it  forth  as  a  principle  that  cannot  be  contro- 
verted, or  set  aside,  that  the  kingdom  of  God  must  rest  upon  the  rock 
of  revelation.  We  believe  that  all  the  events,  that  have  befallen  the 
children  of  men,  from  the  very  beginning  of  time,  have  been  revealed 
even  before  they  happened  through  the  prophets  of  the  Lord  to  the 
children  of  men. 

We  believe  that  the  Lord  is  speaking  through  his  prophets  today, 
and  we  also  believe  that  through  all  time  to  come,  as  long  as  mortal 
man  lives  upon  this  sphere,  God  will  reveal  himself  to  his  servants 
the  prophets  and  through  them  to  his  people.  Your  boys  and  your 
girls  by  the  thousands  have  gone  forth  as  missionaries,  and  today  al- 
most two  thousand  of  them  are  standing  among  the  nations  of  the 
earth  on  this  Sabbath  morning,  and  that  is  the  burden  of  their  mes- 
sage. There  are  ministers  of  the  world  who  read  the  scriptures ;  there 
are  ministers  of  the  world  who  teach  morality ;  there  are  ministers  of 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  world  who  teach  truth  in  some  phases  of  it,  but  deny  revelation. 
We  might  go  forth,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  be  learned  in  the 
scriptures,  in  science,  and  in  all  the  learning  of  the  world,  but  our 
message,  like  theirs,  if  robbed  of  this  one  great  thing,  would  be  a 
dead  letter  that  killeth  and  does  not  give  life  eternal  to  the  souls  of 
men. 

We  find  that  the  world  is  not  believing  in  these  things,  and  for 
that  reason  it  seems  that  we  should  be  stirred  up  in  remembrance; 
for  the  Lord,  through  his  prophets,  has  revealed  conditions  that  truly 
and  verily  prevail  in  our  day,  and  my  desire  today  is  to  stir  up  in 
the  hearts  of  the  youth  of  Zion  and  the  people  of  the  Church  a  re- 
newed belief  in  prophets,  a  renewed  belief  in  the  word  of  revelation. 
We  do  not  need  to  look  for  revelation  clear  back  to  the  time  of  Moses, 
of  all  the  prophets  of  the  Old  Testament,  of  the  apostles  of  the  New, 
and  read  their  word  only  and  the  revelations  of  God  to  them,  but  verily 
today  men  commune  with  our  Father  and  receive  his  revelations  just 
as  those  prophets  of  olden  times  did. 

Is  there  any  difference  in  the  apostles  who  sit  over  here  in  this 
tabernacle  and  who  stand  upon  their  feet  and  proclaim  their  prophetic 
message  to  the  world  today,  and  the  apostles  who  were  sent  out  by 
our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  ?  Who  was  Peter  ?  Who  was  James, 
and  John,  and  Paul  ?  They  were  men,  merely  men — but  endowed  with 
a  holy  prophetic  calling  and  made  apostles  unto  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  through  them  his  word  came  to  the  world.  Who  are  the  men 
who  have  been  endowed  with  this  calling  here?  They  are  mortal  men, 
but  the  calling  is  the  same.  Know  it,  ye  youth  of  Zion!  When  you 
look  upon  those  men,  you  look  upon  men  as  great  as  the  men  about 
whom  you  read  in  sacred  and  holy  writ.  And  is  there  any  difference 
in  the  quality  of  the  prophets,  the  presidents  of  the  Church,  and  those 
who  have  been  the  mighty  prophets  of  the  past  ?  I  say  unto  you,  there 
is  no  difference.  But  there  is  a  danger  that  we  do  not  appreciate  these 
things,  and  there  is  hanging  over  the  world  that  wo  of  Almighty 
God  because  they  have  rejected  this  principle  of  revelation. 

Behold,  what  I  read  unto  you  is  the  revelation  of  the  Lord 
through  his  prophets  in  times  that  are  past,  and  we  are  committed  to 
believe  in  it:  "Yea,  wo  unto  him  that  shall  deny  the  revelations  of 
the  Lord,  and  that  shall  say  the  Lord  no  longer  worketh  by  revela- 
tion, or  by  prophecy,  or  by  gifts,  or  by  tongues,  or  by  healings,  or  by 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost !  Yea,  and  wo  unto  him  that  shall  say 
at  that  day,  to  get  gain,  that  there  can  be  no  miracle  wrought  by  Jesus 
Christ;  for  he  that  doeth  this  shall  become  like  unto  the  son  of  per- 
dition, for  whom  there  was  no  mercy,  according  to  the  word  of  Christ." 

It  behooves  us,  therefore,  to  continue  steadfast  in  this  belief.  We 
sang  at  the  beginning  of  this  meeting  that  wonderful,  inspirational 
hymn,  that  should  go  to  the  heart  of  every  Latter-day  Saint,  "We 
thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet,  to  guide  us  in  these  latter  days ;" 
and  in  this  great  conference  the  word  of  the  Lord  has  come  to  the 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


141 


Church  through  the  prophet  of  the  Lord,  and  that  word  is,  Repent 
ye;  and  live  in  harmony  with  the  laws  of  God  and  the  laws  of  the 
land. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  can  we  expect  to  be  blessed  and  disregard 
this  call?  I  trembled  last  night  as  I  listened  to  the  words  of  that 
prophet  calling  upon  the  people  to  live  clean  lives.  It  seemed  that  it 
was  not  the  word  of  mortal  man,  but  it  was  the  word  of  God,  that 
penetrated  to  the  very  center  of  my  being.  Brethren  and  sisters,  1 
bear  you  my  testimony  that  this,  is  the  word  of  the  Lord. 

The  prophets  of  old  have  pointed  out  the  conditions  that  should 
exist  in  this  age.  We  believe  the  Book  of  Mormon  to  be  the  word  of 
God,  and  yet  we  find  people  who  are  professed  Latter-day  Saints  who 
are  skeptical  in  regard  to  some  of  the  prophecies  contained  in  that 
book.  Reference  has  been  made  this  morning  to  the  fact  that  there 
is  a  Lamanite  mission.  I  thank  the  Lord  that  I  am  identified  with  it. 
I  thank  the  Lord  that  for  16  years  I  have  raised  my  voice  in  defense 
of  the  principles  of  the  gospel  and  in  the  teaching  of  eternal  truth  to 
the  Lamanite  nation  that  live  to  the  south  of  us,  and  still  I  come  home 
to  find  men,  my  brethren,  who  say,  "surely  the  Lord  can  do  nothing 
with  those  people,  surely  our  time  and  effort  is  wasted  in  all  that  we 
try  to  do  for  them."  O,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  can  the  voice  or 
the  hand  of  puny  man  stay  and  forestal  what  God  has  predicted  shall 
come  to  pass?  Who  will  stand  up  contrary,  to  avert  the  bringing  to 
pass  the  purposes  of  God?  Do  we  believe  what  he  revealed  in  re- 
gard to  the  redemption  of  that  people?  I  do.  And  if  it  takes  my  life, 
it  won't  take  any  more  than  it  has  taken  of  some  other  men  to  estab- 
lish the  gospel  in  some  of  the  countries  where  perhaps  some  of  you 
have  come  from.  It  is  the  Lord's  work;  he  has  decreed  it,  and  it 
shall  go  forth. 

Reference5 has  been  made  during  this  conference  to  the  spirit  of 
lawlessness  that  prevails.  I  think  that  one  of  the  greatest  things  that 
endanger  this  great  country  of  ours  is  the  mistaken  conception  of  lib- 
erty in  the  hearts  and  in  the  minds  of  the  people.  The  people  mis- 
take liberty  for  license  and  are  becoming  licentious.  They  are  un- 
virtuous ;  they  are  unchaste,  and  they  say  they  are  so  because  they  are 
free  to  do  what  they  wish  to  do.  They  engage  in  disastrous  strikes 
and  imperil  the  life  and  limb  and  liberty  of  their  fellow  men,  because 
they  say  they  are  free.  Beware  of  a  false  freedom,  of  a  false  liberty, 
that  transcends  the  bounds  of  true  liberty,  true  freedom,  which  comes 
with  the  exercise  of  truth  and  the  knowing  of  it.  The  prophet  of  the 
Lord  has  called  us  to  repentance  in  regard  to  these  things.  Now,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  can  we  consistently  fail  to  give  heed  to  his  warn- 
ing? I  should  like  to  read  to  you  the  word  of  the  Lord,  as  it  came  to 
the  prophet  as  recorded  here  in  the  30th  chapter  of  III  Nephi.  The 
prophets  of  old  and  the  prophets  of  modern  time  sound  the  same 
warning.  Under  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  President 
Brigham  H.  Roberts  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President 


142 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  the  Eastern  States  mission,  sounded  a  warning  to  the  Gentile  na- 
tion of  which  we  form  a  part.  Through  prophetic  vision  the  prophets 
of  old  foresaw  our  day ;  they  foresaw  the  evils  that  would  come  in 
among  us ;  and  resounding  down  through  the  ages  come  to  us  the 
words  of  the  prophets  of  old,  by  way  of  admonition  and  a  call  to 
repentance,  that  I  should  like  to  read  to  you.  It  is  to  us,  in  so  far 
as  it  is  applicable  in  that  we  are  guilty  of  any  of  the  things  men- 
tioned here,  and  it  is  to  the  great  nation  of  people  known  as  the  United 
States  of  America,  directed  specifically  to  them  as  a  call  to  repent- 
ance. And  let  me  say  here  that  their  very  existence  upon  this  con- 
tinent is  conditioned  in  this  great  prophetic  book  upon  their  living  in 
harmony  with  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  not  rejecting  him;  and 
when  they  do  reject  him,  wo,  wo  unto  them: 

"Hearken,  O  ye  Gentiles,  and  hear  the  words  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son 
of  the  living  God,  which  he  hath  commanded  me  that  I  should  speak  con- 
cerning you,  for,  behold  he  commandeth  me  that  I  should  write  saying, 

"Turn,  all  ye  Gentiles,  from  your  wicked  ways,  and  repent  of  your 
evil  doings,  your  lyings  and  your  deceivings,  and  of  your  whoredoms,  and 
jour  secret  abominations,  and  your  idolatries,  and  of  your  murders,  your 
priestcrafts,  and  your  envyings,,  and  your  strifes,  and  from,  all  your  wicked- 
pess  and  abominations,  and  come  unto  me,  and  be  baptized  in  my  name, 
that  ye  may  receive  a  remission  of  your  sins,  and  be  filled  with  the  Holy 
Ghost,  that  ye  may  be  numbered  with  my  people  who  are  of  the  house  of 
Israel." 

Should  we  write  a  catalog  of  the  crimes  to  which  this  people  are 
most  addicted  today,  would  we  not  name  the  very  ones  that  the  prophet 
calls  the  people  to  repentance  of  in  this  great  prophecy?  Is  the  na- 
tion chaste?  Is  it  true?  Are  they  not  deceivers?  Are  there  not 
abominable  secret  combinations  that  threaten  the  very  foundations  of 
our  society?  There  are,  and  the  Lord  holds  forth  a  means  of  escape 
from  these  things.  He  has  not  cast  the  people  off.  No ;  his  arm  is 
yet  extended,  even  as  in  times  of  old,  when  he  would  have  gathered 
the  people  together  even  as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chickens  under  her 
wing.  But  he  will  not,  if  they  will  not.  No  force,  no  coercion  will 
be  used.  But  in  the  due  time  of  the  Lord,  his  calamities  and  his 
judgments  will  be  poured  out,  to  let  the  world  know  that  God  will 
not  be  mocked,  that  he  is  at  the  helm,  that  this  is  his  work  and  we  are 
his  creatures.  So  the  great  cry  today  to  Israel,  to  the  world,  to  us 
all,  is  repentance.  And  the  great  message  to  the  world  that  should 
be  delivered  here  at  home  and  in  the  nations  abroad  by  your  sons  and 
by  your  daughters,  is  the  fact  that  God  speaks  again  and  that  he  will 
continue  to  speak  right  down  to  the  remotest  moment  of  time. 

I  live  in  a  part  of  the  country  where  recent  occurrences  have 
brought  very  forcibly  to  my  mind  some  conditions.  You  will  note 
in  what  I  read  here  that  the  Lord  spoke  in  regard  to  secret  combina- 
tions. Now,  I  would  like  just  to  say  a  word — and  let  it  be  known 
that  it  is  not  mine,  but  it  is  the  word  of  the  prophets  of  the  Lord,  a 
warning  word  and  a  voice  raised  to  give  us  a  key  by  which  we  might 
understand  and  know  danger  when  it  appears. 

WhT'fore,  O  ye  Gentiles,  it  is  wisdom  in  God  that  these'  things  should 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


143 


be  shewn  unto  you,  that  thereby  ye  may  repent  of  your  sins,  and  suffer 
not  that  these  murderous  combinations  shall  get  above  you,  which  are  built 

up  to  get  power  and  gainj,  and  the  work,  yea,  even  the  work  of  destruction 
come  upon  you,  yea,  even  the  sword  of  the  justice  of  the  eternal  God  shall 
fall  upon  you,  to  your  overthrow  and  destruction,  if  ye  shall  suffer  these 
things  to  be ; 

Wherefore  the  Lord  commandieth  you,  when  ye  shall  see  these  things 
come  among  you,  that  ye  shall  awake  to  a  sense  of  your  awful  situation, 
because  of  this  secret  combination  which  shall  be  among  you,  or  wo  be 
unto  it,  because  of  the  blood  of  them  who  have  been  slain;  for  they  cry 
from  the  dust  for  vengeance  upon  it,  and  also  upon  those  who  build  it  up. 

For  it  cometh  to  pass  that  whoso  buildeth  it  up  seeketh  to  overthrow 
the  freedom  of  all  lands,  nations,  and  countries;  and  it  bringeth  to  pass  the 
destruction  of  all  people,  for  it  is  built  up  by  the  devil,  who  is  the  father 
of  all  lies;  even  that  same  liar  who  beguilded  our  first  parents;  yea,  even 
that  same  liar  who  hath  caused  man  to  commit1  murder  from  the  beginning; 
who  hath  hardened  the  hearts  of  men,  that  they  have  murdered  the  prophets, 
and  stoned  them,  and  cast  them  out  from)  the  beginning. 

If  the  temptation  comes  to  you  to  join  these  super-governments, 
as  they  are  called,  those  invisible  empires  that  swear  allegiance  greater 
to  their  own  organization — although  it  be  within  the  organization  of 
the  great  United  States — than  they  swear  to  the  constitution  of  the 
country,  remember  the  words  of  the  prophet,  for  it  is  of  the  devil, 
and  it  will  bring  destruction  to  the  person  and  to  the  community  and 
to  the  nation  that  will  foster  it  and  will  permit  it  to  grow  and  become 
a  power  in  their  midst. 

The  voice  of  the  Lord  through  his  prophets  is  calling  us  to  re- 
pentance from  these  things.  O,  why,  why,  brethren  and  sisters  is  it 
so?  Where  is  the  intelligence  that  the  Lord  gives  us?  We  can  see 
that  to  live  within  the  law  is  best,  is  safest.  Why  are  we  so  prone  to 
live  outside  of  the  law  ?  Why  should  we  make  ourselves  a  power  unto 
ourselves  and  prescribe  that  part  of  the  law  that  we  should  live  ?  Did 
the  Lord  command  us  not  to  kill?  He  did.  We  all  believe  that  we 
should  not  kill.  Was  it  a  different  one  that  told  us  not  to  steal?  No. 
Was  it  a  different  one  that  told  us  not  to  bear  false  testimony?  No. 
Was  it  a  different  one  that  told  us  not  to  make  or  traffic  in  or  sell 
or  drink  bootleg  whisky?  No.  For  through  his  prophet  he  has  told 
us  not  to  do  those  things.  Was  it  a  different  one  that  told  us  not  to 
drink  tea  and  not  to  drink  coffee?  No.  It  is  the  same  one,  and  we 
are  disobeying  him  when  we  do  those  things,  and  the  judgment  of  God 
sooner  or  later  will  come  upon  us.  Was  it  a  different  one  than  the 
one  that  told  us  to  be  chaste,  to  be  virtuous,  to  be  true,  and  to  be 
clean?  No,  it  is  the  same  one,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  So  let  us 
obey  him.  Was  it  a  different  one  that  told  us  to  go  into  all  the  world 
and  preach  the  gospel,  unto  every  creature  ?  No.  It  is  the  same  one ; 
and  whether  those  creatures  reside  in  Mexico  or  whether  they  reside 
in  Siberia,  or  whether  they  reside  in  India,  when  the  call  of  God  comes, 
O,  tirethren  and  sisters,  let  us  lay  all  we  have  upon  his  altar,  and  let 
us  go  and  keep  his  commandments  and  cleanse  our  garments  of  the 
blood  of  the  generation  in  which  we  live. 

I  am  happy  to  have  had  the  privilege  of  speaking  to  you  for  a  few 


144 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


moments  here  this  morning.  I  wish,  in  conclusion,  to  bear  you  my 
testimony  that  I  know  that  God  lives,  he  is  my  Father,  he  reveals 
himself  to  the  children  of  men.  I  know  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son 
of  God,  the  Only  Begotten  Son  of  God  in  the  flesh,  and  that  he  came 
in  the  meridian  of  time  and  wrought  out  a  salvation  and  a  redemption 
for  the  children  of  men.  Passing  over  the  time  of  the  apostasy,  I 
testify  to  you  that  God  and  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  in  answer  to  a 
humble  prayer  of  that  prophet  boy,  Joseph  Smith,  came  to  him  and 
spoke  to  him  and  revealed  to  him  what  God  is.  I  testify  to  you  that 
from  him  came  messengers  bearing  the  holy  message  of  the  gospel 
and  the  power  of  the  Priesthood,  and  that  the  power  of  the  Priesthood 
was  committed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  by  which  power  he  or- 
ganized the  Church  and  put  in  operation  the  great  work  that  has 
brought  us  together  here  today.  I  testify  that,  given  to  him  by  the 
Angel  Moroni,  he  translated  the  plates  from  which  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon was  taken,  and  gave  to  us  a  "new  witness  for  God"  in  the  world. 
I  testify  to  you  that  he  received  from  God  further  revelation  and  in- 
spiration— every  word  that  is  contained  in  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  and  it  is  the  law  and  the  will  of  the  Lord  unto  us,  his 
people,  here  today. 

I  testify  to  you  something  more;  that  every  man  who  has  stood 
as  the  successor  of  that  great  prophet  has  held  the  same  keys  of 
prophetic  leadership  and  apostleship  that  he  held.  There  has  been  no 
mistake,  from  Brigham  Young  right  down  to  the  man  whose  voice  it 
is  the  privilege  of  all  of  us  to  hear  in  this  great  conference  here 
today.  I  testify  to  you  that  Heber  J.  Grant  is  a  prophet  of  God ;  and 
the  man  who  rejects  his  words,  the  man  who  rejects  his  counsel,  re- 
jects it  to  his  own  peril  in  the  world. 

The  Lord  bless  you ;  the  Lord  help  you  to  live  as  Latter-day 
Saints  should  live,  and  bear  up  the  part  assigned  to  you  in  this  great 
work;  for  our  Father's  children  are  everywhere  yet  hungering  and 
thirsting  for  righteousness.  O,  brethren  and  sisters,  compared  with 
the  joy  it  brings  ta  them,  how  little  is  your  sacrifice,  after  all,  in  send- 
ing forth  your  boys  and  your  girls — being  without  them,  scrimping  to 
support  them!  O,  if  you  could  only  feel  and  know  and  see  the  joy 
that  comes  to  those  whom  they  reach,  I  know  that  your  hearts  would 
be  made  glad.  Sacrifice  brings  forth  the  blessings  of  heaven.  Can  we 
give  more  than  our  Savior  gave?  Think  of  what  he  did  for  us. 
Then,  next,  can  we  do  more  than  the  Prophet  Joseph  did?  Think  of 
his  life  and  what  he  did  and  what  he  gave.  Just  where  we  stand  in 
the  conflict,  that;  is  our  place ;  just  where  we  might  think  we  are  use- 
less, let  us  not  hide  our  face ;  for  God  has  placed  us  here  for  a  purpose ; 
whatever  it  be,  let  us  think  that  he  has  chosen  us  for  it.  Let  us  work 
loyally.  The  Lord  bless  you  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Redeemer  of  Israel,  our  only  delight." 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Patriarch  William  Jex,  of 
Springville,  Utah. 


SECOND  OVERFLOW  MEETING 


The  second  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall, 
Sunday  afternoon,  2  o'clock,  October  8,  1922.  Elder  Seymour  B. 
Young,  president  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  presided. 

The  Twenty-first  ward  choir  and  the  congregation  sang,  "The 
Great  Millennial  Morn." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Rodney  C.  Badger. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Fear  not,  O  Israel." 

ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG 

{President  of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  While  I  stand  here  after  witnessing  your 
unanimous  votes  sustaining  the  general  authorities  of  the  Church,  I 
express  to  you  my  thanks  for  the  union  of  purpose  that  you  have 
evinced.  When  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  martyred  he  was 
taken,  as  he  expressed  himself,  "like  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter,"  yet  he 
willingly  laid  down  his  life  for  the  people,  because  the  enemies  of  the 
Saints  at  that  time  swore  in  their  wrath,  if  they  could  not  get  pos- 
session of  the  Prophet  and  deal  with  him  as  they  wanted  to,  they  would 
lay  the  city  of  Nauvoo  in  ashes,  and  that  was,  in  my  opinion,  one  of 
the  main  reasons  why  he  yielded  himself  into  the  hands  of  wicked  men 
in  the  defense  of  the  Church,  to  preserve  the  Church,  and  the  peo- 
ple ;  and  he  fulfilled  the  words  of  the  Master  in  that  splendid  saying, 
"No  man  hath  greater  love  than  that  he  will  give  his  life  for  another" 
- — for  his  friends,  for  his  brethren. 

I  believe  that  it  was  the  thought  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  at  that- 
time,  that  if  the  Prophet  went  to  Carthage,  that  his  enemies  would 
not  have  power  to  kill  him.  So  thoroughly  had  the  Saints  become 
impressed  with  his  calling  by  the  eternal  Father,  and  by  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ,  that  they  were  satisfied  that  no  harm  could  come  to  him  until 
he  had  finished  his  work.  But  it  appears  that  he  had  finished  his 
work  at  this  time.  He  had  organized  the  Church  and  set  in  order 
every  quorum  of  the  Priesthood,  the  apostles,  the  high  priests,  the 
seventies,  the  elders,  the  priests,  the  teachers,  and  the  deacons. 

He  had  supervised  the  organization  of  all  the  quorums  and  com- 
pleted the  organization  of  the  Church,  when  he  said,  "I  am  going  as 
a  lamb  to  the  slaughter,  but  I  am  innocent  and  my  conscience  is  void 
of  offense  towards  God  and  man."  On  the  twenty-seventh  day  of 
June,  1844,  he  sealed  his  testimony  with  his  blood  in  company  with 
his  brother  Hyrum,  who  also,  as  Patriarch  of  the  Church,  sealed  his 
testimony  with  his  blood.  The  presiding  authority  came  to  the  twelve 
apostles  with  President  Brigham  Young  at  the  head,  and  he  seems 
to  have  filled  the  prophecy  made  by  the  Prophet  Joseph,  when  they 
first  met  in  Kirtland,  that  some  day,  Brigham  Young  would  lead  the 
Church.    This  was  at  a  prayer  meeting  where  the  Prophet  Joseph 


146 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


presided  and  Elder  Brigham  Young  in  his  prayer  spoke  in  tongues, 
moved  upon  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  when  he  had  ceased  praying  the 
Prophet  continued  in  the  same  tongue  that  Elder  Brigham  Young  had 
spoken  in,  and  as  he  closed  his  remarks,  he  said,  "My  brethren  and 
sisters,  the  tongue  that  Brother  Brigham  spoke  in,  and  I  have  con- 
tinued in,  is  the  pure  Adamic  language  spoken  by  our  father  Adam," 
and  it  is  from  the  Lord. 

President  Brigham  Young  after  the  martyrdom  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  in  a  large  congregation  assembled  in  Nauvoo  in  the 
grove  near  the  temple,  was  endowed  with  power  from  on  high  at 
that  meeting,  and  hundreds  and  thousands  of  the  Saints  testified  that 
they  saw  the  mantle  of  Joseph  fall  upon  the  Prophet  Brigham  Young, 
and  that  Joseph's  voice  came  from  the  lips  of  Brigham  Young,  and 
the  power  and  the  testimony  of  the  Prophet  was  in  his  utterances.  It 
seems  to  me  that  something  of  this  kind  was  necessary,  because  the 
people  had  become  sorrowful  after  the  martyrdom  because  of  the  many 
apostates  that  had  sought  to  lead  the  Church  astray,  and  this  very 
providential  manifestation  seemed  to  satisfy  the  Saints.  From  that 
time  they  knew  that  Brigham  Young  was  the  prophet,  seer,  and  rev- 
elator  and  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  that  the  power  of  his  prophetic  ministry  had  been  manifest. 

He  led  the  Saints  out  of  Nauvoo  in  trying  times,  and  he  planted, 
in  what  is  now  the  state  of  Nebraska,  a  colony  of  white  people  who 
settled  in  that  state  at  Winter  Quarters,  now  known  as  Florence,  in 
the  year  eighteen  forty-six ;  and  the  next  year,  eighteen  forty-seven, 
he  led  a  company  of  pioneers  and  planted  their  feet  here  in  what  is 
now  Salt  Lake  City,  and  as  he  entered  the  valley  at  the  mouth  of 
Emigration  Canyon,  he  said,  "This  is  the  place,"  and  that  predic- 
tion upon  that  occasion  was  prophetic  absolutely — "This  is  the  place!" 
He  had  a  vision  in  which  he  saw  these  mountain  valleys  peopled  with 
Latter-day  Saints  far  and  near,  and  no  doubt  he  remembered  the 
prophecy  made  by  Joseph  Smith  in  the  little  town  of  Montrose  on 
the  12th  day  of  August,  eighteen  forty-two,  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
would  be  driven  to  the  Rocky  mountains  and  there  become  a  great 
people.  That  prophecy  was  in  part  fulfilled  by  President  Brigham 
Young  and  this  people  colonizing  these  valleys  of  the  mountains,  east, 
west,  north,  and  south,  which  were  afterward  organized  into  the  state 
of  Utah  and  surrounding  states.  After  Utah  had  been  established, 
he  sent  a  colony,  first,  into  Idaho,  the  first  settlement  of  white  people 
in  that  state.  They  settled  upon  the  Salmon  river  in  1855,  and 
there  builded  Fort  Limhi  for  protection  against  the  Black  Feet  Indians. 
In  the  year  1855  he  sent  a  colony  to  locate  in  the  state  of  Nevada,  un- 
der the  direction  of  Elder  Orson  Hyde  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 
This  colony  was  located  in  what  is  known  as.  Carson  Valley,  the  first 
white  settlers  in  the  state  of  Nevada.  In  California,  as  early  as  1846, 
was  established  the  first  white  colony,  being  composed  of  Latter-day 
Saints.    This  colony  came  in  the  ship  Brooklyn  which  sailed  from 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG  147 

New  York  on  the  4th  day  of  January,  1846.  They  landed  at  San 
Francisco  bay  on  the  18th  day  of  July,  1846,  making  the  voyage 
around  Cape  Horn  in  six  months  time.  In  Arizona  we  can  claim 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  were  among  the  first  to  plant  permanent 
white  colonies.  President  Young  was  the  founder  and  the  mover  in 
organizing  the  University  of  Deseret,  which  has  since  become  the  fa- 
mous University  of  Utah.  The  B.  Y.  University,  located  at  Provo, 
was  founded  by  him,  as  also  the  Brigham  Young  College  at  Logan. 
The  L.  D.  S.  University,  located  on  the  bock  east  of  the  Temple,  is 
another  project  of  his,  and  the  first  building  that  was  erected  was 
the  Brigham  Young  building,  and  later  there  have  been  erected  the 
Barratt  Hall  in  the  Center  of  the  block  and  the  Joseph  F.  Smith 
memorial  building,  on  the  north  side  of  the  block,  one  of  the  largest 
and  most  up-to-date  structures  belonging  to  this  Latter-day  Saint  Uni- 
versity. Then  was  added  the  L.  D.  S.  Gymnasium,  one  of  the  very 
best  equipped  gymnasiums  west  of  the  Missouri  river.  President  Brig- 
ham Young  was  raised  up  and  prepared  for  this  great  work,  and  he 
magnificently  stood  the  test  and  the  responsibility  placed  upon  him  in 
leading  the  Saints  to  these  mountain  valleys  and  in  founding  these 
magnificent  institutions  of  learning  for  their  upbuilding  and  progress, 
and  paving  the  way  for  the  colonization  of  surroundng  states  at  the 
same  tme.  I  believe  and  know  that  God  led  him  to  accomplish  these 
great  things,  and  in  the  words  of  one  of  our  most  excellent  hymns 
we  may  sing  as  we  did  at  first: 

"We've  found  the  place  which  God  for  us  prepared, 

Far  away  in  the  West. 
Hefe  none  shall  come,  to  hurt  or  make  afraid. 

Here  the  Saints  will  be  blessed. 
We'll  make  the  air  with  music  ring. 
Shout  praises  to  our  God  and  King, 
Above  the  rest,  these  words,  we'll  tell, 

All  is  well,  all  is  well." 

Far  be  it  from  me  to  fail  in  paying  a  proper  tribute  to  the  great 
and  good  men  who  have  succeeded  President  Brigham  Young  as 
leaders  of  this  people.  They,  too,  have  each  been  under  the  inspiration 
of  the  Lord  Almighty,  in  directing  the  affairs  of  the  Church.  Presi- 
dent Heber  J.  Grant  has  been  an  inspiration  to  the  people  everywhere, 
and  has  done  much  to  remove  prejudice  and  to  make  friends  for  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  He  is  indeed  a  prophet,  seer  and  revelator  to  this 
people,  and  a  true  and  faithful  president  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  May  the  Lord  bless  him  and  the  Saints  forever, 
I  pray  through  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord.  Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

{President  Central  States  Mission) 

I  hope  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  direct  my  remarks,  that 
what  I  may  say  may  be  in  accordance  with  his  holy  mind  and  will, 


148 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


for  the  good  of  all  who  are  gathered  here.  I  do  not  remember  a  more 
beautiful  Sabbath,  at  this  time  of  the  year,  than  today,  when  everything 
seems  favorable  to  us,  everything  seems  saturated  with  the  spirit  and 
the  power  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  Surely  his  Spirit  has  been  made 
manifest  to  a  very  great  extent  in  the  sessions  of  the  conference  thus 
far.  I  think  I  have  never  attended  a  conference  when  there  seemed 
to  be  a  greater  interest,  when  the  people  themselves  seemed  more  de- 
voted. The  large  numbers  in  attendance  show  that  the  Spirit  of  God 
is  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  in  their  hearts.  They  have  a  de- 
sire to  be  taught  that  which  will  do  them  good  for  all  time  to  come. 
They  desire  to  serve  God  and  keep  his  commandments  more  than  they 
have  ever  done  before. 

As  the  Church  grows  older  its  influence  must  be  greater.  There 
is  a  growth  in  all  scientific  lines  in  the  earth.  The  great  discoveries 
that  have  been  made  by  men  in  the  last  few  years  are  far  in  advance 
of  the  theology  of  the  churches  of  the  day.  They  have  not  advanced. 
And  truly  this  Church,  under  the  divine  inspiration  of  our  Father 
in  heaven  must  stand  as  the  fountain  head  of  all  of  the  wisdom  that 
comes  to  men,  for  God  has  revealed  it  and  he  makes  known  to  his 
people  his  mind  and  will  if  they  will  but  listen.  I  firmly  believe  that 
the  truths  that  have  been  revealed  to  men  in  the  dispensation  of  the 
fulness  of  times,  in  which  we  live,  have  had  their  beginning  in  the 
principles  of  truth  that  are  found  in  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

A  short  time  ago  I  heard  a  man  of  international  fame  deliver  a 
lecture  in  Kansas  City,  before  a  convention  of  Sunday  School  workers. 
I  heard  this  gentleman  say,  that  there  are  one  or  two  passages  of  scrip- 
ture in  the  Bible  that  are  worth  more  than  all  the  books  that  have 
been  written  from  time  to  time  by  the  so-called  professors  of  the  day. 
One  of  them  which  he  drew  attention  to  is  the  doctrine  which  plainly 
declares  that  God  "created  man  in  his  own  image,  male  and  female." 
He  said  there  are  many  men  and  women  who  do  not  believe  that 
scripture;  but  he  said,  "the  Bible  teaches  it."  I  never  heard  this 
doctrine  taught,  in  my  experience  out  in  the  world,  before,  save  by 
the  elders  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  but  I 
want  to  assert  to  you,  that  it  would  not  surprise  me  at  all  if  in  the 
very  near  future  it  should  be  taught  by  many  of  the  leading  sects  of 
the  day.  I  believe  it  will  not  be  long  until  there  shall  be  teachers  who 
will  be  preaching  the  doctrine  of  an  ante-mortal  state.  They  will  be 
teaching  in  plainness  that  mortals  had  a  preexistence.  I  believe  that 
there  shall  be  men  arise  not  of  our  faith  who  will  declare  that  there 
is  a  salvation  for  the  dead,  and  that  men  may  live  and  attain  the 
blessings  of  the  almighty  Father  if  they  have  not  forfeited  their  right 
to  those  blessings  in  mortality.  The  law  of  tithing  is  taught  in  many 
of  the  churches  of  the  day.  The  principle  of  divine  healing  as  taught 
and  practiced  by  Christ  and  his  ancient  apostles  is  taught  in  many 
of  the  so-called  Christian  sects.  Whoever  asks  of  God  in  the  name 
of  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  may  receive,  and  with  the  light  that  came 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


149 


into  the  earth  through  the  visi  station  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  the  visitation  of  holy  angels,  the 
principles  of  truth  will  find  lodgment  in  the  hearts  of  the  honest 
among  the  children  of  men,  and  God's  Church  shall  receive  more  en- 
dorsement and  greater  influence  than  ever  before. 

It  will  be  found,  then,  when  they  shall  attempt  to  teach  the  prin- 
ciples and  doctrines  of  Christ,  that  in  our  day,  for  more  than  ninety 
years  the  principles  of  eternal  truth  as  taught  in  the  Bible  and  re- 
vealed in  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  Doctrine  and  Covenants  have 
found  place  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men. 

One  of  the  first  things  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  taught 
was,  that  he  had  beheld  the  Father  and  the  Son,  that  they  were  im- 
mortal men,  that  he  was  in  their  image.  He  declared  this  with  bold- 
ness, and  it  has  now  been  preached  by  this  people  for  nearly  a  hun- 
dred years.  It  has  been  testified  of  in  all  the  civilized  nations  of  the 
earth,  where  the  elders  of  Israel  have  been  sent.  And  when  men 
begin  to  lay  claim  to  the  principles  of  Christ  they  will  have  to  ac- 
knowledge that  there  was  a  prophet  raised  up  in  the  dispensation  in 
which  they  live ;  and  a  people  raised  up  through  him,  who  have  taught 
these  principles ;  that  God  has  revealed  these  things  in  plainness  unto 
the  children  of  men,  and  that  he  has  revealed  to  us  the  true  state  of 
the  world  and  the  truth  with  respect  to  all  his  creatures.  And  then 
they  will  have  to  admit  the  superiority  and  the  originality  of  God's 
truth  in  the  earth,  for  the  Lord  has  never  allowed  any  son  or  daughter 
to  come  to  the  earth  but  he  has  provided  a  way  for  them  to  live  and 
be  taught  the  truth. 

And  when  men  testify  that  they  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ 
they  will  be  confronted  again  with  this  fact,  that  the  testimony  of 
Jesus  is  the  spirit  of  prophecy,  and  that  as  men  receive  the  testimony 
of  Jesus  they  must  believe  in  prophecy.  And  when  they  believe  in 
prophets  they  must  acknowledge  that  God  revealed  his  mind  and  will 
to  prophets.  They  will  have  to  turn  again  to  the  true  order  of  wor- 
ship, and  they  will  find  again  that  God  has  revealed  his  truth  to  the 
children  of  men,  and  has  raised  up  men,  and  conferred  upon  them 
divine  authority  to  proclaim  his  truth.  Then  they  will  come  to  know 
that  the  true  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  restored,  and  is  preached 
with  power  in  the  earth. 

And  now  I  want  to  say  that  the  man  that  is  at  the  head  of  this 
Church  truly*  is  a  prophet  of  the  living  God,  a  man  who  was  ordained 
to  that  calling  before  the  earth  was  created.  And  associated  with  him 
are  men  of  power  ordained  to  stand  in  the  name  of  God  in  the  earth, 
which  power  will  remain  until  the  Lord  shall  come.  When  a  man 
questions  the  divine  authority  of  this  Church,  he  needs  only  to  in- 
vestigate the  doctrines  of  the  Church  and  listen  to  the  preaching  of 
the  men  who  declare  the  gospel.  To  my  mind  the  man  to  whom  I 
referred  has  read  "Mormonism."  There  are  thousands  that  believe  it, 
but  had  it  come  from  a  "Mormon"  elder,  it  is  a  question  if  they  would 
have  received  it  at  all. 


150 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  want  to  say  to  you  that  the  Lord  will  raise  up  men  who  will 
further  his  cause  in  the  earth  by  allowing  them  to  preach  parts  of 
the  restored  gospel.  The  apostles  in  the  days  of  Christ  saw  men 
who  were  casting  out  devils  in  his  name,  and  they  forbade  them,  but 
Jesus  said,  "He  that  is  not  against  us  is  on  our  part."  That  same 
privilege  is  in  the  earth,  for  men  and  for  women  to  stand  for  the 
right,  and  to  stand  for  the  gospel  itself,  no  matter  where  they  have 
heard  it,  no  matter  where  they  obtained  it.  There  will  come  a  time, 
just  so  surely  as  the  sun  shines,  that  they  will  have  to  acknowledge 
that  to  the  Church  of  Christ  in  the  days  of  the  dispensation  of  the 
fulness  of  times,  our  Father  gave  that  light  and  that  power  with 
authority  to  declare  it  to  the  children  of  men.  I  fully  believe  that 
the  gospel  as  it  is  taught  by  the  servants  of  God  bearing  divine 
authority,  will  find  place  in  the  hearts  of  thousands  as  the  result  of 
the  faithfulness  of  the  men  of  God  who  have  declared  it,  and  that 
in  many  of  the  churches  of  the  day  the  restored  gospel  will  be  taught, 
and  it  will  establish  faith  in  the  hearts  of  men.  Sooner  or  later,  men 
and  women  will  be  drawn  unto  the  Lord,  through  prayer,  and  shall 
seek  him  by  faith  and  by  study  and  they  shall  discover  that  that 
knowledge  of  the  truth,  and  that  light  and  knowledge  of  God  and  his 
gospel  came  through  the  Church  of  Christ  in  this  day,  and  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God  through  whom  it  was  revealed  and  re- 
stored to  the  earth,  who  sealed  his  testimony  with  his  blood ;  died  for 
the  truth  which  through  him  God  gave  to  the  world.  He  became  a 
martyr  to  the  cause  of  Christ,  and  no  man  ever  became  a  martyr  for 
the  cause  of  Christ  without  having  known  him  and  the  truth  that  he 
declared,  though  that  truth  be  preached  by  men  who  are  not  called 
of  God.  We  pray  that  the  honest  in  heart,  may  be  honorable  enough 
to  admit,  when  it  is  brought  to  their  attention,  that  the  truths  which 
they  have  been  taught,  were  received  through  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord 
in  the  day  in  which  we  live,  and  that  they  must  repent  and  believe  the 
gospel;  that  the  law  that  John  taught  is  in  force  and  in  effect  for 
people  who  have  not  been  baptized  by  men  having  authority.  And 
that  in  order  to  partake  of  the  glorious  principles  of  Christ,  they 
must  enter  into  the  straight  gate  and  live  according  to  the  truth  and 
the  laws  that  has  been  revealed  for  their  salvation. 

I  pray  for  the  children  of  men.  I  pray  for  the  honorable  men  of 
the  earth,  men  and  women  who  are  blinded  by  the  cunning  crafti- 
ness of  men  who  deceive  by  teaching  doctrine  that  is  not  true.  I  pray 
for  the  Latter-day  Saints,  that  they  may  walk  uprightly  before  the 
Lord,  that  they  may  testify  before  the  world  that  God  lives,  and  that 
they  may  rejoice  in  the  truth  which  comes  to  them  through  these  con- 
ferences and  through  attending  to  the  duties  of  Saints  of  God  upon 
the  earth.  May  we  all  feel  determined  in  our  hearts  to  live  the  lives 
of  Saints,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Mrs.  Lorinda  P.  Brewerton,  sang  a  solo,  "Give  to  me  thy  sup- 
port." 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  McCUNE 


151 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  McCUNE 

(Formerly  President  of  ihe  Eastern  States  Mission) 

At  the  beginning  of  our  services,  Brother  Badger,  acting  as 
mouth  for  all  of  us,  asked  the  Lord,  in  his  prayer,  to  inspire  those  who 
should  speak  to  us  his  words  for  our  comfort  and  well-being.  I  be- 
lieve that  prayer  has  been  literally  answered  thus  far  in  those  who 
have  spoken,  and  I  desire  that  I  may  say  nothing  that  shall  detract 
from  that  beautiful  spirit  and  inspiration  which  has  been  our  portion 
here  today. 

I  delight  to  meet  with  my  brethren  and  sisters,  but  I  find  it  a 
great  task  to  attempt  to  talk  to  you.  I  feel  that  the  Saints  perhaps 
know  just  as  much  about  the  gospel  as  I  do.  It  would  be  a  great 
privilege  to  meet  a  congregation  of  this  size  in  the  world,  and  de- 
liver to  them  the  gospel  message ;  but  I  always  sense  my  weakness 
in  standing  before  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Yet  I  do  know  our  Father 
in  heaven  makes  no  requirement  at  our  hands  except  he  gives  us  the 
power  to  magnify  that  requirement  or  calling ;  so  I  respond  cheerfully, 
trusting  in  the  Lord,  and  what  I  do  in  this  Church  I  do  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord,  for  I  do  know,  by  my  experience,  that  we  have  the  gospel 
of  our  Redeemer,  the  true  gospel  of  Christ,  and  the  more  I  know  of 
it  the  more  I  love  it,  the  dearer  it  is  to  my  heart. 

There  have  been  so  many  good  things  spoken  in  this  conference 
that  I  feel  in  my  heart  you  will  love  to  go  home  and  leave  with  the 
Saints,  in  our  wonderful  institutions. 

As  Brother  Bennion  was  comparing  the  meetings  of  our  annual 
and  semi-annual  conferences,  a  thought  came  to  my  mind.  I  went 
into  a  convention  the  other  day,  and  as  I  went  in  I  could  not  help 
but  notice  the  terrible  condition  that  was  manifest  in  that  meeting,  and 
I  knew  as  I  stand  here,  that  the  people  were  deluded.  They  thought 
the  same,  perhaps,  of  me,  but,  "by  their  fruits  you  may  know  them." 
At  this  meeting  here,  it  seems  as  if  all  have  met  with  one  purpose  of 
heart.  In  the  meeting  I  refer  to,  there  was  no  union,  no  peace,  but 
there  was  everything  contrary  to  union  and  peace,  and  T  never  saw 
such  contortions  in  my  life  as  I  witnessed  in  that  little  meeting. 

I  bear  testimony  that  we  have  the  true  gospel  of  the  Redeemer. 
It  is  a  privilege  for  us  to  live  in  this  great  dispensation  of  the  fulness 
of  times  when  we  have  the  true  gospel  of  our  Lord,  and  we  should 
take  pleasure  in  keeping  his  laws  and  commandments.  It  is  a  priv- 
ilege that  we  should  prize.  It  is  a  privilege,  I  think,  when  we  prop- 
erly understand  our  position  and  the  blessings  that  are  promised  as 
our  reward,  and  we  should  cheerfully  be  obedient  to  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord  for  the  blessings  that  we  are  seeking  and  which 
have  been  promised  by  our  Father.  We  all  want  happiness,  we  all 
want  something  which  we  are  craving  for.  I  believe  that  strict  obedi- 
ence to  the  commandments  of  God  will  bring  us  that  which  we  seek. 
I  believe  there  is  no  other  way  under  heaven  whereby  we  can  get  that 


152 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


which  we  greatly  desire,  except  by  a  strict  obedience  to  the  gospel  and 
the  laws  of  God.  When  our  Father  in  heaven  said.  Thou  shalt  not 
steal,  he  did  not  place  on  his  children  a  hard  burden,  but  he  gave  them 
something  that  would  contribute  to  their  peace  and  salvation.  He 
gave  them  the  commandments  because  he  loved  them.  So  we  in  all  our 
experiences  and  vicissitudes  of  life  should  learn  to  love  God  and  to 
keep  his  commandments.  Our  people  should  learn  to  love  the  prin- 
ciples and  requirements  of  the  gospel,  and  should  love  to  conform  to 
them  according  to  the  spirit  in  which  they  are  given  for  they  are  all 
elevating,  even  in  this  life,  and  through  them,  in  their  completeness, 
we  may  be  exalted  in  the  life  to  come. 

I  recently  returned  from  California.  I  was  astonished  while 
there  at  the  wonderful  devotion  and  interest  shown  by  our  people  in 
the  gospel  of  our  Redeemer  in  that  portion  of  the  vineyard.  I  first 
attended  our  Sunday  school,  in  the  vicinity  of  Ocean  Park.  I  was  glad 
to  behold  that  the  little  hall  would  not  wholly  hold  our  Sunday  school 
children.  As  many  as  25  children  had  to  stand.  On  the  same  day  1 
attended  the  services  at  Los  Angeles ;  and  when  I  left  that  place  a 
little  over  three  years  ago,  their  chapel  was  ample  to  accommodate 
them  all.  When  I  returned  I  found  that  little  chapel  was  wholly  in- 
adequate for  the  Sunday  night  meeting,  and  every  available  space  was 
taken  for  standing  room.  On  the  next  Sabbath  I  visited  another 
branch,  where  the  chapel  was  built  about  a  year  ago.  In  that  time 
the  building  has  become  inadequate.  The  next  Sunday  I  attended 
services  in  our  little  chapel  in  Ocean  Park.  It  is  estimated  that  about 
1200  attended  our  services  there,  and  the  new  chapel  was  inadequate 
to  hold  the  people.  I  find  those  people  are  taking  a  very  active  in- 
terest in  the  gospel,  a  keener  interest  even  than  they  had  taken  at  home 
here.  Brethren  and  sisters,  I  glory  in  this,  but  I  regret  it  very  much, 
so  far  as  we  at  home  are  concerned.  We  should  recognize  it  as  a 
privilege  to  perform  our  duties  in  the  Church,  and  to  obey  the  require- 
ments made  upon  us  in  our  day,  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of 
time,  and  we  should  not  look  upon  our  duties  as  hard  to  perform.  I 
believe  the  gospel  plan  given  to  us  is  the  plan  by  which  we  can  come 
back  into  the  presence  of  God,  through  working  out  our  salvation  in 
this  life.  Let  us  find  joy  and  satisfaction  in  our  work  in  this  life;  it 
is  not  a  hardship  to  conform  to  the  requirements  of  the  gospel ;  but 
we  will  find  true  happiness  in  rendering  obedience  to  the  gospel. 

There  are  so  many  principles  in  the  gospel  as  we  understand  it, 
and  if  we  will  conform  our  lives  to  them,  we  will  have  our  reward  in 
this  life,  and  in  the  life  to  come  more  than  we  can  conceive  in  our 
present  state;  as  a  reward  for  our  faithfulness. 

The  brethren  have  spoken  much  about  our  respect  for  law  and 
order.  I  wonder  if  it  is  possible  that  the  listlessness  that  comes  to  us 
is  the  result  of  our  own  actions  in  the  past.  I  would  not  say  that  I 
believe  our  actions  are  reflected  in  the  attitude  of  our  children,  or  the 
ideas  of  our  children.    I  remember  being  out  where  we  wanted  to 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  McCUNE 


153 


make  a  certain  distance  in  a  certain  time.  The  young  men  who  were 
with  me  said  in  the  presence  of  their  officers,  and  to  my  two  sons,  we 
will  make  it,  if  we  go  in  a  hurry.  Now  I  believe  that  the  violation 
of  the  speed  law  will  be  brought  home  to  those  men,  who  were  will- 
ing to  go  outside  the  law  in  hurrying  forward  in  the  automobile.  1 
believe  that  men  will  take  advantage,  and  I  believe  that  boys  and  men 
who  overstep  the  law,  will  take  advantage  and  license  from  the  ac- 
tions of  others  that  are  brought  home  to  them.  So,  I  believe  we  should 
resolve  in  our  hearts  to  cultivate  respect  for  law,  and  thus  wherever 
we  may  be  found,  use  our  influence  to  have  the  laws  obeyed  and  to 
produce  a  respect  for  law  in  the  minds  of  all,  not  only  for  ecclesi- 
astical authority,  but  all  authority.  It  is  no  trouble  to  respond  to  the 
requirements  of  the  president  of  these  United  States,  and  I  believe  we 
should  take  pleasure  in  responding  to  every  requirement  of  law  and 
order,  not  only  from  the  president,  but  from  all  including  the  least 
official  who  acts  under  him.  And  in  this  way  I  believe  we  should 
teach  our  own  children  respect  for  authority.  Now  may  we  have 
respect  and  confidence  in  the  authority  placed  over  us  by  the  Lord ; 
and  I  believe  that  we  will  find  real  joy  and  satisfaction  in  honoring 
the  deacon  in  his  place.  I  believe  he  should  be  honored  as  bearing  the 
Priesthood  of  God.  I  feel  that  I  would  like  to  honor  every  man  who 
acts  in  the  authority,  either  of  our  country,  or  of  the  Church  of  God, 
upon  the  earth,  and  teach  my  children  to  do  likewise.  And  this  I 
would  teach  all  whom  it  is  my  duty  to  teach,  as  opportunity  may 
afford. 

I  did  not  intend  to  take  so  much  of  your  time.  It  is  a  wonder- 
ful privilege  we  have  of  meeting  together  and  partaking  of  the  spirit- 
ual blessings  that  God  has  for  this  people,  in  these  conferences ;  I 
wish  we  could  fully  appreciate  them,  for  just  as  sure  as  you  sit  before 
me  this  Sabbath  day,  God  lives,  and  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Savior 
of  the  world,  and  Joseph  Smith  was  his  chosen  instrument  through 
whom  the  gospel  has  been  restored  to  earth and  it  is  our  privilege  to 
honor  his  memory  and  have  respect  for  and  render  obedience  to  all 
the  principles  and  laws  revealed  through  him  for  our  earthly  happi- 
ness and  eternal  salvation.  May  we  likewise  render  obedience  to  all 
who  have  succeeded  the  Prophet  Joseph.  My  brethren  and  sisters, 
I  bless  you  through  the  authority  my  Father  has  given  me,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

ELDER  HEBER  C.  IVERSON 

(Formerly  President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission) 

I  can  assure  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  keenly  sense  the 
mighty  responsibility  that  is  now  mine,  for  I  feel  its  weight  when  I 
consider  that  I  am  addressing  many  who  have  come  from  afar,  and  at 
considerable  expense,  with  a  desire  to  receive  from  the  Lord  through 
his  ministry,  by  the  inspiration  of  his  spirit,  encouragement  and  spirit- 


154 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ual  strength  which  may  be  of  assistance  to  them  in  their  work  in  the 
wards  and  stakes  of  Zion.  I  am  sure  that  up  to  the  present  moment  you 
have  not  been  disappointed,  and  I  sincerely  trust  that  up  to  the  closing- 
prayer  we  may  continue  to  enjoy  the  outpouring  of  divine  light  and 
intelligence  which  has  characterized  the  remarks  of  all  the  speakers 
who  have  previously  spoken.  I  have  in  my  heart  only  one  desire,  and 
that  is,  that  the  Lord  will  grant  me  his  choice  blessing  that  I  may 
impart  unto  you  eternal  principles  pertaining  to  our  salvation  in  his 
presence,  that  we  may  all  be  imbued  with  the  spirit  of  diligence  and 
devotion  to  his  work,  and  fulfil  the  requirements  devolving  upon  us  ; 
that  we  may  perform  all  of  them  and  conform  to  all  the  ordinances 
pertaining  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation,  and  is  not  a  mere  imaginary  affair,  but  a  reality ;  a 
living,  vital  power  in  the  lives  of  those  who  permit  it  to  come  into 
their  lives. 

I  rejoice  in  the  statement,  made  last  evening  by  President  Heber  J. 
Grant  while  addressing  the  assembled  priesthood,  that  for  no  other 
one  thing  is  he  more  grateful  to  the  Lord  than  that  throughout  the 
nations  of  the  earth  where  he  has  traveled,  including  the  wards  and 
stakes  of  Zion,  there  prevails  among  the  Saints  an  abiding  faith  in. 
and  a  knowledge  of,  the  divinity  of  this  work.  This  is  the  secret  of  its 
strength.  Upon  this  cornerstone,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  estab- 
lished, and  it  shall  prevail;  it  shall  triumph;  it  shall  overcome  event- 
ually all  the  enemies  of  truth,  of  light,  and  of  life.  It  is  not  alone 
amongst  those  who  stand  in  high  positions,  that  this  splendid  pos- 
session, this  excellent  knowledge,  is  possessed,  it  is  found  amongst  the 
humblest,  the  meekest,  the  lowliest,  and  the  most  obscure  among  us, 
provided  they  are  faithful  in  devoting  themselves  to  the  Lord's  work 
and  requirements.  A  glorious  thought !  It  is,  indeed,  the  very  secret 
of  our  strength.  How  has  it  come  to  us?  How  shall  it  be  maintained? 
In  the  manner  in  which  it  was  obtained,  and  in  no  other  way  can  it 
be  a  continued  possession  in  our  lives,  making  for  our  salvation ;  for 
remember  that  the  gospel's  purpose  is  not  to  save  men  in  their  sins,  but 
from  their  sins,  and  that  it  is  God's  power  brought  into  our  lives 
with  that  definite  objective,  and  it  is  revealed  by  him  and  not  an 
imagination.  As  Brother  McCune  has  said,  there  is  no  principle  or 
ordinance  of  this  gospel  that  has  not  its  reward  in  blessing  of  faith 
and  power  from  heaven ;  for  there  is  a  law  irrevocably  decreed  from 
the  foundations  of  the  world,  on  which  all  blessings  are  predicated,  and 
whenever  we  receive  any  blessing  from  the  Lord,  it  is  by  obedience 
to  the  law  upon  which  it  is  predicated ;  no  blessing  in  the  gospel  can 
be  obtained  and  enjoyed  except  by  obedience  to  the  requirements  of 
that  law  to  which  it  belongs. 

An  old  sayi:ig,  very  frequently  repeated,  is,  "We  learn  to  do  by 
doing."  May  I  paraphrase  that,  and  this  is  equally  true,  We  learn 
to  know  by  doing.  No  man  can  know  except  he  does.  The  Master 
Teacher  has  made  clear  that  truth,  for  he  said,  "My  doctrine  is  not 
mine,  but,  his  that  sent  me;  if  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall  know 


ELDER  HEBER  C.  IVERSON 


155 


of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself." 
Those  words  are  simple  and  positive,  we  obtain  a  testimony  through 
obedience,  and  only  in  a  continuation  of  faithfulness  and  obedience 
can  we  retain  that  testimony;  for  we  can  lose  it  by  disobedience  just 
as  we  gain  it  by  obedience.    One  is  just  as  logical  as  the  other. 

The  time  is  so  brief,  we  can  but  touch  a  few  high  points.  I  will 
quote  a  few  words  from  an  eminent  author  who  illustrates  the  prac- 
tical phase  of  gaining  knowledge,  and  this  principle  holds  true  in  gain- 
ing knowledge  of  the  truth  which  will  save  us  and  which  is  the  most 
precious  possession  within  the  power  of  man  to  gain.  I  read  you  a  few 
words  from  an  eminent  Chautauqua  lecturer,  "Nobody  can  give  us  or 
buy  us  an  education ;  we  earn  it  in  the  university  of  hard  knocks,  in 
the  school  of  service.  Nobody  can  give  us  or  buy  us  a  great  arm ; 
we  earn  it  in  physical  service.  Nobody  can  give  us  or  buy  us  a  great 
mind ;  we  earn  it  in  mental  service.  Nobody  can  give  us  or  buy  us 
a  great  character ;  we  earn  it  in  moral  service."  I  add  this  thought : 
Nobody  can  buy  or  give  us  salvation  in  our  Father's  kingdom ;  we  earn 
it  through  divine  service,  performing  every  requirement  made  of  us 
from  on  high. 

Again,  quoting  our  author,  he  says,  "We  do  not  know  what  we 
memorize ;  we  only  know  what  we  vitalize ;  we  only  know  what  we 
live."  Then  he  goes  on  to  say:  "We  shall  have  finished  our  education 
when  all  the  strife  and  discord  and  evil  and  bitterness  and  selfishness 
have  been  pounded  out  of  our  lives ;  and  when  peace,  harmony,  love, 
wisdom,  understanding,  and  unselfishness  fill  them.  Eternity  alone 
can  finish  our  education.  As  we  overcome,  we  ascend  the  mountain 
of  life ;  we  rise  above  the  legacy  of  our  limitations ;  we  rise  above 
troubles  and  storms  into  sunshine;  we  rise  to  life's  mountain  summit 
and  see  the  night  below  us ;  we  have  reached  the  new  eternal  day  on 
the  summit,  God's  commencement  day."  We  have  then  graduated  and 
are  prepared  to  enter  into  the  great  university  of  our  Father,  when  we 
have  obeyed  absolutely  and  strictly  the  regulations,  and  learned  well 
the  lessons,  of  this  school  room  of  human  experience,  to  which  our 
Father  has  sent  us  for  a  wise  and  glorious  purpose.  And  then  shall 
we  find  a  glorious  realization  of  the  supreme  desire  or  prayer  of  our 
souls,  expressed  in  the  inspired  words : 

When  I  leave  this  frail  existence, 

When  T  lay  this  mortal  by, 
Father,  Mother,  may  I  meet  you 

In  your  royal  courts  on  high? 
Then,  at  length,  when  I've  completed 

All  you  sent  me  forth  to  do, 
With  your  mutual  approbation 

Let  me  come  and  dwell  with  you. 

It  is  just  as  real  as  my  life  and  your  life ;  if  is  precious,  immortal, 
and  triumphant;  it  is  just  as  true  and  just  as  reasonable  and  just  as 
natural  as  any  other  thing  in  all  the  universe. 

My  testimony,  in  conclusion,  is  that  our  Father  lives  and  rules  in 


156 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


yonder  heaven,  and  that  his  Son  is  enthroned  on  the  right  hand  of 
glory.  They  revealed  themselves  to  the  boy  Joseph  Smith,  and  they 
did  commission  him  to  establish  the  gospel  and  Church  of  Jesus  Christ, 
in  this  the  fulness  of  time,  for  the  salvation  of  the  world ;  and  I  know 
this  is  true ;  and  in  order  that  we  may  enjoy  its  blessings  we  must 
consecrate  to  this  work  all  that  we  have  and  all  that  we  are.  I  trust 
that  we  may  all  do  so,  and  that  we  may  eventually  receive  the  great 
reward  of  eternal  life  in  the  celestial  kingdom  of  glory,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

{President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission) 

Brethren '  and  sisters,  our  hearts  are  glad  because  the  Lord  has 
shown  us  the  path  to'  eternal  life.  In  his  service  there  are  joys  that 
fill  the  heart  to  overflowing. 

On  my  way  to  South  Carolina,  a  few  days  ago,  the  passenger  train 
on  which  I  was  riding  was  delayed  four  hours.  A  freight  engine  run- 
ning ahead  of  this  passenger  train  ran  off1  the  track.  Enquiring  from 
one  of  the  railroad  men  the  cause  of  the  engine  being  derailed — for 
the  track  appeared  to  be  in  good  condition — I  received  this  reply :  "The 
engine  was  running  'light.'  It  had  no  cars — no  load  to  pull.  The 
engineer  was  driving  it  at  high  speed.  If  the  engine  had  been  pulling 
a  train  it  would  probably  have  kept  on  the  rails." 

I  pondered  over  this  answer.  How  many  men  in  this  republic 
are  running  "light?"    Shakespeare  makes  one  of  his  characters  say: 

"Let  me  give  light,  but  let  me  not  be  light. 
For  a  light  wife  doth  make  a  heavy  husband." 

If  there  were  more  men  who  would  take  upon  themselves  the  nat- 
ural and  God-ordained  responsibilities  of  this  mortal  life,  that  is  to 
say,  if  there  were  more  men  who  were  heads  of  families,  assuming 
the  duties  of  life  there  would  be  fewer  strikes  and  less  industrial  dis- 
turbance. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  are  a  great  people  because  they  are  en- 
gaged in  a  great  work  and  they  sense  the  responsibilities  thereof.  They 
have  not  made  this  work  great,  but  the  work  has  made  them  great. 
It  is  God's  work.  What  is  the  mission  of  the  Church?  It  is  a  glo- 
rious one.  In  the  Book  of  Mormon  the  Lord  said  to  one  of  his  proph- 
ets :  "For  my  work  is  not  yet  finished ;  neither  shall  it  be,  until  the 
end  of  man ;  neither  from  that  time  henceforth  and  forever."  Yes,  the 
Almighty  hath  a  work.  It  must  be  a  noble  one,  a  work  of  power  and 
glory  worthy  of  the  Majesty  on  high.  The  Lord  said  unto  Moses: 
"For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory; — to  bring  to  pass  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man."  And  this  work  will  go  on 
throughout  the  countless  ages  of  eternity. 

Blessed  are  the  Latter-day  Saints  for  they  have  been  called  by 
the  Master  to  perform  a  great  and  far-reaching  work  pertaining  to  the 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


157 


salvation  of  the  souls  of  the  children  of  men.  The  Lord  says  that  we 
are  called  to  lift  up  our  voices  "as  with  the  sound  of  a  trump,  both 
long  and  loud,  and  cry  repentance  unto  a  crooked  and  perverse  gen- 
eration, preparing  the  way  of  the  Lord  for  his  second  coming." 

This  is  the  mission  of  this  Church,  to  warn  the  world  by  the 
preaching  of  the  everlasting  gospel  proclaiming  to  the  world  that  the 
coming  of  the  Lord  is  nigh  at  hand.  He  is  coming  to  judgment,  to 
reward  the  righteous,  to  bring  to  pass  the  resurrection  of  the  right- 
eous dead ;  and  to  reward  every  man  according  to  the  deeds  done  in 
the  body.  "And  even  so  I  have  sent  mine  everlasting  covenant  into 
the  world,"  saith  the  Lord,  "to  be  a  light  to  the  world,  and  to  be  a 
standard  for  my  people,  and  for  the  Gentiles  to  seek  to  it,  and  to  be 
a  messenger  before  my  face  to  prepare  the  way  before  me." 

In  sublime  faith  in  the  spirit  of  service  and  sacrifice,  meeting 
every  form  of  prejudice,  your  sons  and  daughters  are  proclaiming  the 
truth  to  the  children  of  men,  at  street  meetings,  in  halls,  cottages  and 
houses  of  worship.  They  are  preaching  the  gospel  as  a  witness  and 
a  warning  to  the  nations  of  the  earth  preparatory  to  the  glorious  sec- 
ond coming  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

As  I  listened  to  President  Grant,  President  Penrose  and  Presi- 
dent Ivins  I  thought  of  the  splendid  lives  of  these  men.  What  a 
great  blessing  to  the  people  of  the  world  and  especially  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  they  are  and  have  been. 

And  the  same  may  be  truthfully  said  of  all  the  leaders  of  the 
Church  both  past  and  present,  and  it  will  be  said  of  those  who  will 
follow.  God  said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith:  "And  thy  people 
shall  never  be  turned  against  thee  by  the  testimony  of  traitors."  Our 
leaders  instruct  us  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  and  their  words  are 
carried  by  that  power  unto  our  hearts.  We  rejoice  in  the  fulness  of 
the  gospel  and  thank  God  that  Israel  is  led  by  prophets,  seers  and 
revelators. 

Almost  at  the  commencement  of  his  communication  to  Joseph 
Smith,  the  angel  Moroni  said  that  God  had  a  work  for  him  (Joseph) 
to  do.  In  what  spirit  did  the  Prophet  Joseph  perform  that  work? 
In  the  spirit  of  service  and  sacrifice.  He  lived  for  others.  On  his 
way  to  Carthage,  knowing  that  he  was  going  to  his  martyrdom,  in 
the  splendor  and  nobility  of  his  soul,  he  exclaimed:  "If  my  life  is 
of  no  value  to  my  friends,  it  is  of  none  to  myself."  We  are  living 
for  others.  We  want  to  be  of  service  to  our  fellow  men,  to  our 
country,  to  our  God.  I  believe  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  that  this 
faith  which  the  world  designates  as  "Mormonism"  is  the  spiritual  force 
that  is  saving  the  world  from  bursting  asunder  into  spiritual  an- 
archy. The  young  people  have  the  faith  of  their  fathers  in  their  hearts, 
and  it  is  the  faith  that  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  The  mis- 
sionaries go  into  the  world  with  the  light  and  inspiration  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  to  deliver  their  vital  message  in  the  name  and  power  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

God,  in  his  spiritual  firmanent,  has  set  constellations  of  spiritual 


158 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


power  and  righteousness  "for  the  perfecting  of  the  Saints,  for  the 
work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  edifying  of  the  body  of  Christ."  Chief 
among  these  is  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church.  So  long  as  the 
Latter-day  Saints  look  to  these  spiritual  guides,  the  Presidency  and 
the  Twelve,  and  obey  their  counsels,  they  will  never  go  astray.  These 
inspired  men  are  servants  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  Redeemer  is  the 
head  of  the  Church,  the  chief  corner  stone  of  our  salvation  and  faith. 
Without  him  we  can  do  nothing.  In  keeping  counsel  and  in  doing  the 
things  the  Lord  shall  command  them  the  Saints  will  walk  in  the  glo- 
rious light  of  truth :  they  will  share  the  glory  of  the  first  resur- 
rection, and  the  great  gift  of  salvation  will  be  their  eternal  reward. 

May  God  help  us  to  keep  our  vision  from  being  blurred  by  the 
deceitfulness  of  riches  and  the  cares  of  the  world.  May  he  help  us 
to  live  and  preach  the  gospel  to  help  mankind  to  keep  from  perishing 
spiritually,  to  teach  our  children  to  be  true  to  their  leaders,  to  them- 
selves, loyal  to  their  country  and  to  God,  is  my  humble  prayer,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang.  "Awake,  my  soul." 
Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Frederick  E.  Barker. 

SECOND  OUTDOOR  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

The  second  outdoor  overflow  meeting  was  held  at  the  Bureau 
of  Information  at  2  o'clock,  Sunday,  October  8,  1922.  Elder  J. 
Golden  Kimball,  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  presided. 

The  Holiday  choir  rendered  the  music  and  singing,  Charles  Pike, 
conductor. 

The  choir  sang,  "Come,  dearest  Lord." 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder  George  W.  Lewis,  of  the 
Bureau  of  Information. 

The  choir  sang,  "We're  not  ashamed  to  own  our  Lord." 

ELDER  NEPHI JENSEN 

(President  of  the  Canadian  Mission) 

Someone  asked  Mark  Twain  if  he  knew  of  anything  that  is  worse 
than  to  have  the  earache  and  the  toothache  at  the  same  time.  Mark 
Twain  said,  "I  think  it  would  be  a  little  worse  to  have  sciatic  rheu- 
matism and  St.  Vitus  dance  at  the  same  time."  I  am  quite  certain  that 
if  Mark  Twain  had  ever  occupied  a  position  like  this,  he  would  not 
have  given  that  answer. 

I  feel  very  deeply  conscious  of  my  limitations  in  attempting  to 
speak  to  this  audience  on  this  occasion.  I  would  not  make  the  at- 
tempt were  it  not  for  the  faith  that  I  have  that  God  will  sustain  and 
uphold  all  those  who  trust  in  him  and  seek  humbly  to  do  his  will.  I 


ELDER  NEPHI  JENSEN 


159 


pray  with  all  my  heart  that  God  will  be  kind  to  me  while  I  attempt  to 
speak  to  you,  and  that  he  will  give  me  his  Spirit  to  actuate  my  utter- 
ances, that  I  shall  be  able  to  say  the  things  that  ought  to  be  said, 
and  say  them  in  the  way  that  they  ought  to  be  said. 

I  am  thankful  with  all  my  heart  for  my  heritage.  I  am  thankful 
for  membership  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
1  am  thankful  that  God,  in  his  kindness,  has  given  me  a  testimony 
of  the  truth ;  and  that  he  has  written  upon  my  heart  by  fire  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  a  certain  knowledge  of  the  divinity  of  this  great  work  in 
which  we  are  engaged.  I  am  thankful  that  in  the  goodness  of  our 
heavenly  Father  I  have  been  permitted  to  represent  this  great  Church 
upon  the  firing  line  of  truth  for  over  seven  years  of  my  life.  I  am 
thankful  that  God  has  sustained  me  in  this  ministry  and  enabled  me, 
by  the  power  of  his  Spirit,  to  touch  the  hearts  of  honest  men  and 
women  by  my  testimony  of  the  truth. 

During  the  last  three  years  and  three  months  I  have  become  more 
strongly  convinced  than  I  have  ever  been  in  my  life  of  the  world's 
need  of  "Mormonism."  It  is  my  deep-rooted  conviction  this  day  that 
the  world  needs  "Mormonism"  more  than  anything  else.  Indeed,  I  am 
persuaded  that  the  truth,  the  faith,  and  the  spirit  which  are  found  in 
this  Church  are  the  only  things  that  can  save  this  world  from  going 
to  pieces,  socially,  politically,  and  economically. 

Some  months  ago  I  picked  up  a  copy  of  the  Literary  Digest,  and 
found  in  it  a  lengthy  advertisement,  which  had  been  written  by  a  com- 
mittee of  the  World  Inter-Church  Movement.  The  advertisement 
covered  an  entire  page  in  the  magazine.  In  the  very  heart  of  this 
advertisement  appeared  this  pregnant  sentence,  ''The  world  needs  a 
great  many  things,  but  it  needs  most  of  all  faith."  I  do  not  know  who 
the  man  was  who  wrote  that  sentence,  but  I  do  know  that  he  did  pack 
into  a  few  words  a  comprehensive,  simple  statement  of  the  paramount 
need  of  this  world.  Yes,  this  world  "needs  most  of  all  faith  ;"  and  it 
needs  a  deeper  faith  than  the  insipid  belief  which  we  find  resident  in 
the  hearts  of  a  great  many  of  our  orthodox  Christian  friends.  The 
world  needs  the  faith  that  Jesus  taught. 

About  two  years  ago  I  had  the  pleausre  of  speaking  to  a  con- 
gregation in  the  great  city  of  Montreal.  In  opening  my  discourse  I 
said  to  the  congregation,  "We  have  come  to  teach  you  the  faith  that 
Jesus  taught."  I  had  no  sooner  made  that  seemingly  trite  statement 
than  a  number  of  persons  in  the  congregation  laughed  almost  out 
loud.  I  noticed  a  number  of  persons  turn  to  their  neighbors  and  whis- 
per something  about  what  I  said.  I  am  quite  certain  that  they  meant 
by  their  demonstrat'on  to  manifest  to  me  that  they  had  already  had 
the  faith  that  Jesus  taught  preached  to  them.  But  I  am  quite  sure,  not- 
withstanding the  demonstration  of  those  people,  that  there  are  very 
few  people  in  all  this  world  today  who  have  really  heard  about  the 
faith  that  Jesus  taught. 

What  was  the  faith  that  Jesus  taught?  The  Apostle  Paul  under- 
stood quite  fully  the  doctrines  of  the.  Son  of  God.    He  understood  the 


160 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Christian  doctrine  of  faith.  He  wrote  a  wonderful  essay  on  this  sub- 
ject. It  is  found  in  the  11th  chapter  of  his  letter;  to  the  Hebrews.  In 
this  letter,  Paul  says,  "Now  faith  is  the  substance  of  things  hoped  for, 
the  evidence  of  things  not  seen." 

In  this  definition  Paul  tells  us,  in  effect,  that  to  the  person  who 
has  faith,  unseen  things  are  evident,  or,  in  other  words,  that  to  the 
person  who  has  faith,  God  is  evident.  The  person  who  has  faith  has 
a  lively,  certain  assurance  of  the  existence  of  the  invisible  God.  I 
know  that  that  is  the  kind  of  faith  Paul  is  talking  about  here,  because 
in  this  same  chapter  he  refers  to  Moses  as  a  man  who  had  this  "evi- 
dence of  things  not  seen."  Of  this  man  Moses,  Paul  wrote,  "By 
faith,"  Moses  forsook  Egypt,  "not  fearing  the  wrath  of  the  king:  for 
he  endured,  as  seeing  him  who  is  invisible."  What  does  Paul  mean? 
He  means  that  Moses,  because  of  the  purity  of  his  life  and  the  integrity 
of  his  soul,  was  so  close  to  God  that  he  could  almost  see  God.  That 
is  faith.  Nothing  short  of  this  certainty  is  real  Christian  faith.  When 
you  think  of  faith  in  this  sense,  you  will  understand  that  it  is  one  of 
the  rarest  qualities  you  will  find  in  human  souls.  I  have  sometimes 
said  in  great  cities  in  the  east,  "You  do  not  have  a  thousand  persons 
in  your  city  who  have  Christian  faith." 

But  Paul  also  tells  us  that  "faith  is  the  substance  of  things  hoped 
for."  He  means  that  faith  is  the  assurances  we  have  that  we  will 
receive  the  things  we  hope  for.  And  the  apostle  is  not  here  talking 
about  any  ordinary  human  hope.  He  is  not  here  talking  about  the 
hope  that  the  mechanic  has  that  at  the  end  of  the  week  he  will  re- 
ceive his  pay.  Neither  is  he  speaking  about  the  hope  that  the  scientist 
has  that  in  the  ordinary  processes  of  nature  certain  things  will  come 
to  pass  at  certain  times.  Paul  is  here  talking  about  a  deep,  strong,  di- 
vine hope.  He  refers  to  Abraham  as  a  man  who  had  this  "substance 
of  things  hoped  for."  Of  this  man  Abraham,  Paul  said,  "By  faith 
Abraham,  when  he  was  tried,  offered  up  Isaac:  and  he  that  had  re- 
ceived the  promises  offered  up  his  only  begotten  son  of  whom  it  was 
said,  that  in  Isaac  shall  thy  seed  be  called,  accounting  that  God  was 
able  to  raise  him  up,  even  from  the  dead."  Notice  the  words:  "ac- 
counting that  God  was  able  to  raise  him  up  even  from  the  dead." 
These  are  wonderful  words.  They  are  powerful  words.  They  came 
from  a  great,  heart.  They  came  from  a  soul  that  was  pure  enough, 
true  enough,  and  strong  enough  to  trust  God,  even  to  the  uttermost. 
One  who  has  this  certain  assurance  of  the  willingness  of  God  to  bless 
his  children,  even  to  the  uttermost,  if  they  trust  in  him,  has  "the  sub- 
stance of  things  hoped  for." 

It  was  of  this  kind  of  faith  that  Jesus  spoke  when  he  talked  about 
this  principle.  There  were  in  his  day  a  few  souls  who  were  noble 
enough  and  pure  enough  and  strong  enough  to  trust  in  Jesus  Christ. 
One  of  these  rare  souls  was  a  woman  who  had  been  afflicted  for 
twelve  long  years  of  her  life.  This  woman,  we  are  told,  spent  her 
fortune  upon  the  physicians  and  received  no  relief.  One  day  she  was 
standing  in  the  throng  as  Jesus  came  walking  along.    She  had  heard 


ELDER  NEPHI  JENSEN 


161 


of  the  purity  of  his  life  and  the  mighty  works  which  he  had  performed 
by  the  power  of  faith.  As  he  came  into  sight,  her  heart  leaped  for  joy 
and  she  said  within  herself,  "If  I  can  touch  the  hem  of  his  garment,  I 
shall  be  healed."  Did  you  ever  notice  those  sublime  words?  Did  you 
ever  notice  that  wonderful  profession  of  faith?  Those  strong  words 
came  from  a  big  heart.  They  came  from  a  soul  that  was  deep  enough, 
and  strong  enough  to  trust  God,  even  to  the  uttermost.  That  noble 
woman,  prompted  by  her  sublime  faith,  touched  the  hem  of  the  garment 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Instantly  she  was  healed.  Jesus  knew  that  some 
noble  soul  had  come  into  contact  with  him.  He  turned  to  his)  disciples 
and  said,  "Who  did  touch  me?"  His  disciples  had  not  seen  anything. 
They  were  not  spiritually  minded  at  that  time.  They  were  still  of 
that  class  of  whom  Shakespeare  spoke  when  he  said,  "They  are  only 
alive  in  their  duller  parts."  Any  person  who  has  not  living  faith  in  the 
living  God  is  not  half  alive.  The  disciples  said,  "The  throng  press  thee 
and  sayest  thou  who  did  touch  thee?"  But  Jesus  made  reply,  "Some- 
one did  touch  me,  for  I  perceived  that  virtue  hath  gone  out  of  me." 
Then  the  true  hearted  woman  came  into  his  presence,  and  said,  "I  did 
touch  thee."  Then  Jesus  made  reply  and  said,  "Thy  faith  hath  made 
thee  whole." 

That  woman  had  Christian  faith.  She  had  the  faith  that  Jesus 
taught.    She  had  the  faith  that  he  exemplified  in  his  ministry. 

But  alas,  that  faith  was  driven  from  this  earth  by  superstition. 
The  loss  of  this  faith  to  the  world  is  the  saddest  thing  that  has  hap- 
pened in  the  history  of  man.  The  turning  of  faith  into  superstition 
after  the  first  establishment  of  the  Christian  religion,  did  not  take 
place  in  a  day.  It  came  about  very  gradually.  The  people  of  that 
day,  soon  after  the  establishment  of  the  Christian  religion,  discovered 
that  it  is  easier  to  trust  in  something  that  they  could  see  than  it  is 
to  trust  in  the  invisible  God.  So  they  commenced  to  thinking  that 
Peter,  and  Paul  and  James  and  the  rest  of  the  apostles  had  a  power 
peculiar  to  them.  They  soon  concluded  that  they  could  not  enjoy  the 
same  power  that  the  apostles  had.  Then  they  commenced  to  think 
that  if  they  could  just  get  a  piece  of  an  apostle's  coat  or  cloak  and 
wear  it  upon  their  person,  it  would  ward  off  disease  and  evil  spirits. 
So  in  a  very  natural  way  the  practice  of  believing  in  relics  came  into 
existence. 

A  little  later  they  commenced  to  thinking  that  there  was  some 
magical  power  in  the  cross  upon  which  Christ  was  crucified,  and  that 
if  they  could  just  have  a  metallic  likeness  of  that  cross  fastened  about 
their  neck,  it  would  keep  away  sickness  and  evil  spirits.  You  know  it 
is  so  much  easier  to  hold  on  to  a  cross  fastened  about  your  neck 
than  it  is  to  hold  on  to  the  throne  of  God. 

Then  a  little  later  still  they  commenced  to  thinking  that  if  they 
could  just  have  an  image  of  one  of  the  apostles,  and  kneel  before  that 
image  and  pray  a  formal  prayer  before  it,  they  would  be  able  to  re- 
ceive blessings  from  the  invisible  God.  You  know  it  is  much  easier 
to  trust  in  an  image  right  before  you  than  it  is  to  trust  in  the  God 


162 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  you  cannot  see.  So  in  a  very  natural  way,  the  faith  that  Jesus 
taught,  the  faith  that  the  Christ  exemplified,  was  turned  into  super- 
stition.  And  error  drove  truth  from  the  altar. 

But  thanks  be  to  our  God,  he  has  not  left  the  world  without  the 
hope  of  a  better  day.  Through  his  prophets,  he  has  made  it  known 
to  us  that  the  gospel  of  Christ  and  its  power  should  be  restored  to 
the  world  in  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times.  In  fulfilment  of 
those  wonderful  prophecies,  Joseph  Smith  the  prophet  restored  to  this 
world  the  faith  that  Jesus  taught.  On  that  beautiful  day  in  the  morn- 
ing of  the  Nineteenth  Century,  when  the  boy  Joseph  Smith  prayed 
and  God  the  Father  and  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  appeared  to  him,  faith 
was  reborn.  On  that  day  the  faith  of  the  Christ  came  back  to  this 
world.  The  spot  on  which  he  prayed  that  day  is  one  of  the  holiest 
spots  upon  this  earth.    It  is  the  cradle  of  faith. 

The  story  of  that  boy's  triumphant  faith,  of  his  all-conquering 
prayer,  has  kindled  in  the  hearts  of  tens  of  thousands  the  same  faith. 

I  recall  a  beautiful  story  that  I  heard  in  the  city  of  Toronto  some 
months  ago,  just  on  the  eve  of  my  departure  for  the  city  of  Montreal. 
The  following  day  I  was  in  the  city  of  Montreal,  and  as  I  walked  down 
St.  Catherine  Street  in  that  great  city,  I  saw  a  newsboy  with  a  Mont- 
real Standard.  Across  the  top  appeared  these  big  headlines,  "The 
Greatest  Miracle  of  Modern  Times."  I  purchased  a  copy  of  the  paper 
and  turned  to  page  16,  and  read  there  the  story  of  radio.  The  writer 
claimed  that  radio  was  the  greatest  miracle  of  modern  times.  But  I 
was  just  a  little  disposed  to  take  issue  with  his  statement.  I  am 
fashioned  somewhat  after  the  Scotch:  I  do  not  always  believe  every- 
thing that  I  hear.  So  I  commenced  to  thinking,  really  is  radio  the 
greatest  miracle  of  modern  times?  I  did  not  have  to  think  back  very 
far  to  be  convinced  that  I  had  heard  of  a  greater  miracle.  Just  the 
night  before,  in  the  city  of  Toronto,  before  I  took  my  train  for  Mont- 
real, I  sat  in  my  room  in  the  mission  home  and  listened  to  a  little 
English  woman  tell  the  story  of  the  tribulation  and  the  trials  that  came 
to  her  shortly  after  she  joined  the  Church.  She  said,  "I  was  so  greatly 
tried  one  day  that  I  rushed  into  my  little  room,  closed  the  door,  and 
threw  myself  upon  the  bed  and  wept  and  prayed  for  comfort.  While 
I  was  praying  I  heard  a  voice  behind  me'  distinctly  say,  'Be  patient; 
be  patient ;  wait.'  " 

That  is  a  greater  story  than  the  story  of  radio.  It  is  a  wonder- 
ful thing  to  be  able  to  hear  a  prima  donna  sing  on  the  other  side  of 
the  globe.  But  it  is  an  infinitely  greater  thing  to  hear  the  voice  of 
God  speaking  comfort  directly  to  your  own  soul.  Where  did  that  little 
English  woman  get  the  faith  to  trust  in  God  to  that  extent  that  she 
was  able  to  get  a  definite  answer  to  her  prayer?  She  got  that  faith 
from  reading  the  story  of  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
in  our  dispensation.  That  is  the  most  thrilling  story  in  the  world  ex- 
cept one.  It  is  the  story  that  this  world  needs  to  awaken  its  faith  in 
the  living  God.  For  the  old  story  tells  about  God's  power  in  the  world 
so  far  back  that  people  are  not  able  to  trust  in  it.    What  this  world 


ELDER  NEPHI  JENSEN 


163 


needs  is  the  story  of  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
What  this  world  needs  is  a  down-to-date  story  of  the  power  of  God 
in  the  world.  "Mormonism"  is  the  only  religion  in  the  world  that 
furnishes  the  world  such  a  story. 

And  I  know  that  the  story  of  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  is  true. 
With  all  the  power  of  my  soul  I  thank  God  for  this  testimony.  I 
value  it  above  the  price  of  rubies.  If  any  one  should  come  to  me  this 
very  hour  with  a  billion  dollars  upon  a  golden  platter  and  say  to  me, 
"You  can  have  this  if  you  will  give  up  and  surrender  your  testimony 
of  the  truth,"  I  would  turn  from  that  gold  as  if  it  were  dross;  for  1 
have  learned  in  the  furnace  of  affliction  that  there  are  a  great  many 
things  that  you  cannot  do  with  money.  You  cannot  knit  together  the 
broken  pieces  of  human  will  with  money.  You  cannot  heal  the 
wounds  of  the  human  heart  with  gold.  You  cannot  bring  peace  to 
the  human  soul  with  rubies.  There  is  nothing  in  the  world  that  i? 
true  enough  and  strong  enough  to  bring  peace  to  the  human  soul  but 
living  faith  in  the  living  God. 

I  love  those  words  of  that  humble  poet  Whittier : 

Y.et  in  the  maddening  maze  of  things, 

When  tossed  by  storm  and  flood, 
To  one  fixed  stake  my  spirit  clings; 

I  know  that  God  is  good. 

I  know  not  where  his  islands  lift 

Their  fronded  palms  in  air; 
I  only  know  I  cannot  drift 

Beyond  his  love  and  care. 

I  do  know  that  those  dear  words  are  true.  I  do  know  that  this 
religion  of  ours  is  God-given,  God-instituted.  I  know  it  is  the  best 
and  truest  thing  in  the  world.  God  give  us  power  to  live  it  to  the 
end  of  our  days,  and  to  do  all  in  our  strength  to  declare  its  truths,  to 
the  end  of  the  world,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  B.  S.  YOUNG 

(President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission) 

I  do  not  know  how  successful  I  shall  be  in  making  you  hear  me. 
I  have  not  had  very  much  opportunity  as  yet  to  do  outdoor  speaking, 
and  particularly  to  such  a  throng  of  people  as  is  assembled  here  today. 
1  am  grateful  for  this  opportunity,  my  friends,  brethren  and  sisters, 
although  it  makes  me  feel  a  good  deal  like  the  story  that  Brother 
George  H.  Brimhall  tells  of  two  fellows  who  were  going  into  the  bat- 
tle. They  were  both  trembling  a  good  deal,  and  one  of  them,  who 
was  in  the  rear,  said,  "Say,  you  seem  to  be  awful  scared  there  in 
front,"  and  the  fellow  in  front  said,  "If  you  were  half  as  scared  as  I 
am,  you  would  be  five  miles  in  the  rear  and  running  like — well."  And 
I  want  to  say,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  sometimes  in  the  timidity  of 
our  souls  we  fail  to  live  up  to  the  things  that  we  know. 


164 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


As  has  been  announced  to  you,  I  have  the  honor  of  presiding  over 
the  Northwestern  States  mission;  I  have  the  honor  of  being  tempo- 
rarily a  parent  to  your  boys  and  girls.  1  wish  we  had  more  of  them. 
1  want  to  say  to  you  that  no  sweeter,  no  finer  specimens  of  boyhood 
and  girlhood  can  be  found  in  all  the  broad  confines  of  the  earth.  They 
are  indeed  the  salt  of  the  earth.  And  we  are  endeavoring  to  teach 
them  the  things  that  are  vital,  and  they  are  learning  them  with  a 
rapidity  that  is  almost  startling.  We  have  boys  and  girls  come  out 
into  the  field  who  unhappily  have  had  but  little  teaching  at  home.  1 
do  not  say  that  it  is  the  fault  of  the  parents  or  of  the  bishop  of  the 
ward  or  of  any  of  those  who  have  charge  of  the  spiritual  education  of 
our  boys  and  girls,  but  the  fact  is  that  at  whose  ever  door  it  may  be 
laid,  they  are  almost  unacquainted  with  the  principles  of  the  religion 
to  which  their  parents  have  given  their  unbounded  allegiance.  It  is 
marvelous  how  rapidly  they  acquire  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel.  It 
seems  to  be  as  natural  to  them  to  understand  faith,  repentance,  bap- 
tism, and  the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost — the 
first  principles  of  the  gospel — as  it  is  to  breathe. 

We  are  endeavoring,  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  teaching  of  your 
boys  and  girls,  to  make  of  them  good  citizens,  not  only  of  the  Gov- 
ernment, but  also  of  the  Church ;  and,  as  was  said  yesterday  here  in 
the  tabernacle  by  Dr.  Widtsoe,  the  one  thing  lacking  in  the  education  of 
all  people,  with  few  exceptions,  is  they  have  not  been  taught  spirit- 
uality. We  do  study  the  physical ;  we  give  great  attention  and  spend 
almost  unbounded  treasure  on  the  cultivation  of  the  mental,  but  the 
spiritual  is  almost  wholly  neglected.  We  are  endeavoring,  during  their 
tenure  of  missionary  service,  to  give  them  an  understanding  of  the 
spiritual. 

And  what  will  this  spiritual  acquisition  do  for  them  that  the 
physical  and  the  mental  does  not  accomplish?  These  boys  and  girls 
have  been  taught  in  the  schools  that  they  should  observe  certain  lines 
of  conduct,  largely  for  the  purpose  that  they  may  acquire  substance. 
Our  whole  educational  system  has  for  its  object  the  teaching  of  boys 
and  girls  how  to  acquire  material  things.  When  these  boys  and  girls 
go  into  the  mission,  they  are  brought  into  a  new  atmosphere.  There 
are  new  channels  of  communication  between  them  and  nature  that  are 
opened  up  of  which  hitherto  they  had  no  conception.  And  those  chan- 
nels are  of  the  most  highly  developing  character,  because  they  give 
the  boys  and  girls  a  view  of  life  they  had  not  previously  had,  and 
that  no  men  or  women  can  have  without  having  the  experience  that 
comes  to  the  missionary.  That  experience,  to  my  mind  and  with  the 
thought  I  have  given  the  subject,  is  one  of  the  most  useful  and  nec- 
essary of  anything  of  which  I  have  conception,  for  the  reason  that  it 
gives  the  boys  and  girls  a  foundation  upon  which  to  build  their  future, 
that  they  cannot  acquire  in  any  other  way. 

We  have  labored,  my  friends,  to  give  our  boys  and  girls  a  large 
patrimony,  when  we  shall  have  passed  on  into  the  great  eternity.  No 
matter  how  hard  we  may  strive,  no  matter  what  we  may  leave  them, 


ELDER  B.  S.  YOUNG 


165 


we  are  placing  in  their  hands,  in  many  instances  wholly  inexperienced, 
the  opportunity  of  ruination.  But  when  you  have  sent  a  boy  or  girl 
into  the  mission  field,  you  have  sent  them  into  a  school  for  the  acquir- 
ing' of  that  which  is  more  useful,  more  necessary,  and  will  be  to  them 
what  no  material  possession  can  possibly  furnish ;  for  you  have  taught 
the  boy  or  girl,  or  they  have  acquired,  a  faith  in  God,  the  faith  that 
Brother  Jenson  has  been  speaking  of.  Do-  you  know  of  anything  that 
is  more  desirable  in  its  possession  than  faith  in  God?  It  is  the  thing, 
as  has  been  said,  that  the  world  lacks ;  and  if  you  can  give  your  boys 
and  your  girls  faith  in  God,  you  have  supplied  them  with  that  which 
no  patrimony,  no  matter  how  generous,  can  possibly  confer  upon  them ; 
because  the  patrimony  is  a  thing  that  moths  may  eat,  that  rust  may 
corrupt,  that  thieves  may  steal ;  but  when  you  have  given  them  faith  in 
God,  or  an  opportunity  to  obtain  it,  you  have  given  them  that  which 
nothing  earthly  can  deprive  them  of,  and  it  will  go  with  them  into  the 
eternities. 

We  have  had  boys  and  girls  come  out  there — I  have  seen  them, 
although  I  have  been  there  but  a  short  time — who  have  been  unedu- 
cated in  the  things  of  the  gospel.  But  send  them  out  without  purse 
or  scrip,  to  do  what  we  term  summer  work,  and  they  will  be  gone  a 
couple  or  three  months,  and  when  they  come  back,  note  the  difference 
in  the  appearance  of  the  boy  or  the  girl !  Their  whole  being  has  un- 
dergone a  complete  change.  They  are  no  more  like  the  boy  or  girl 
they  were  when  they  came  out  than  if  they  were  two  different  beings 
entirely.  They  come  back  with  a  faith  in  God.  And  when  they  stand 
up,  you  know  that  they  have  a  faith  in  him.  You  can  see  it  in  their 
countenances ;  you  can  feel  it  in  the  clasp  of  their  hand ;  you  can  hear 
it  as  the  words  roll  from  their  lips,  as  the  tears  stream  from  their  eyes 
in  their  gratitude  to  God,  who  has  preserved  them  and  blessed  them 
and  given  them  a  testimony  that  he  lives,  that  he  hears  and  answers 
prayers,  that  he  is  indeed  our  Father.  And  if  you  give  your  boys  and 
girls  an  opportunity  to  acquire  that  faith,  you  have  given  them  some- 
thing that  you  cannot  possibly  confer  if  you  leave  them  no  matter 
what  treasure  of  an  earthly  character. 

Now,  we  need  missionaries.  This  has  been  my  preface  to  the  state- 
ment that  we  need  missionaries,  and  we  need  them  very  badly.  I  know 
of  instances  where  there  are  boys  and  girls  in  the  mission  field  who 
are  being  supported  in  some  instances  by  widowed  mothers  and  those 
mothers  have  said  to  me,  "I  do  not  see  how  I  can  possibly  keep  my 
daughter  in  the  mission  field,  because  our  crops  have  no  value;  it 
won't  pay  to  dig  our  potatoes ;  I  have  no  means  of  supporting  her 
except  that  which  I  borrow  and  which  I  must  look  to  her  to  help  me 
to  make  good  when  she  returns."  That  is  faith,  a  living  faith,  because 
of  the  desire  to  have  that  daughter  acquire  this  thing  to  which  I  have 
referred,  faith  in  God.  My  confidence  in  this  community  is  of  a 
character  that  if  they  knew  that  here  is  a  girl  in  the  mission  field,  or 
a  boy,  or  any  number  of  them,  who  need  and  who  are  being  sup- 
ported by  widowed  mothers,  there  are  men  and  women  who,  if  they 


166 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


knew  those  facts,  would  say,  "We  will  support  them  until  their  mis- 
sion is  concluded."  They  are  out  there  looking  for,  searching  for, 
combing  society  for'  honest  souls,  and  if,  as  the  scripture  says,  our  joy 
shall  be  great  with  one  soul  whom  we  shall  bring  to  repentance,  how 
much  greater  will  that  joy  be  if  we  shall  bring  many  in  the  presence 
of  our  Father — now,  if  our  joy  is  to  be  great  with  one  soul  or  any 
number  of  souls,  so  also  great  will  be  our  joy  if  we  contribute  to  the 
maintaining  of  these  boys  and  girls  who  are  without  means,  to  help 
them  finish  their  missions.  And  I  believe  that  some  movement  will 
be  started  in  the  communities,  by  which  a  fund  may  be  established,  so 
that  these  boys  and  girls  can  be  kept  in  the  mission  field.  I  know 
that  you  have  no  accurate  idea  of  the  value  of  those  boys  and  girls  in 
your  communities  after  they  return  if  they  keep  the  spirit  of  the 
mission  in  their  hearts. 

I  want  to  appeal  to  the  parents  in  this  congregation  and  the  par- 
ents throughout  all  Israel :  If  you  want  to  give  your  boys  and  girls 
something  that  will  be  vital  and  lasting,  give  them  the  opportunity 
of  a  mission,  and  you  will  have  conferred  upon  them  that  which  you 
cannot  possibly  bestow  in  any  other  way.  They  are  beautiful  in  the 
lives  they  lead,  and  the  men  and  women  who  see  them  going  about  their 
daily  toil  have  remarked  to  me  when  they  have  known  that  I  am  a 
Latter-day  Saint,  as  they  have  seen  them  standing  on  the  streets  preach- 
ing the  gospel  of  repentance,  that  never  have  they  seen  finer  speci- 
mens of  boys  and  girls,  who  radiate!  more  intelligence,  and  to  whom  it 
has  been  a  greater  delight  to  listen  and  to  know  than  these,  your  boys 
and  girls,  who  are  doing  service  in  the  mission  field.  It  is  a  beautiful, 
a  valuable  thing,  and  will  be  of  eternal  use  to  them  if  you  will  give 
them  an  opportunity  of  enjoying  it. 

And  I  want  to  say  that  we  are  endeavoring  to  teach  them  this 
great  fact,  that  wherever  they  are,  no  matter  at  what  time  nor  under 
what  circumstances,  they  are  always  missionaries  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Are  you  ?  That  is  what  your 
boys  and  girls  will  ask  you:  Are  you  missionaries  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints?  Are  you  willing  to  do  the  things 
that  they  are  doing?  Are  you  willing  to  follow  in  the  footsteps  of 
these  beautiful  boys  and  girls,  who  are  teaching  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ?  Do  you  teach  it?  That  is  a  question  for  you 
to  ask  yourselves.  They  are  teaching  it.  Are  you  teaching  it?  You 
can  be  of  vast  use  in  this  Church  if  you  will  teach  the  gospel.  Pri- 
marily you  have  no  other  business  in  this  world  than  to  teach  the  gos- 
pel that  God  has  revealed  for  the  salvation  of  his  children ;  and  if  you 
will  analyze  your  lives,  analyze  the  object  of  your  being  here,  you  will 
conclude  that  you  are  here  for  the  purpose  of  furthering  his  interests 
in  the  earth  among  his  children ;  and  I  commend  to  you  the  sug- 
gestion that  as  you  have  opportunity,  give  your  boys  and  girls  the 
chance  of  a  mission.  You  will  never  regret  it;  it  will  stand  eternally 
to  your  credit ;  because  you  will  have  saved  your  boys  and  your  girls, 
than  whom  there  is  nothing  more  precious  in  all  the  earth.    That  God 


ELDER  B.  S.  YOUNG 


167 


will  help  us  to  understand  and  appreciate  our  opportunities,  I  humbly 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  ladies'  chorus  sang,  "Lift  Thine  Eyes." 

The  general  authorities  were  presented  and  sustained  unanimously, 
as  at  the  Tabernacle  meeting. 

ELDER  BENJAMIN  GODDARD 

{Of  the  Bureau  of  Information) 

I  do  not  know  how  my  voice  will  carry  in  this  large  assembly,  as 
I  have  been  suffering  with  a  cold  for  some  days.  I  am  very  glad  to 
be  with  you  in  this  open  air  meeting  and  to  observe  how  many  there 
are  in  this  audience  who  are  members  of  the  Church.  It  is  truly  won- 
derful to  observe  the  growth  and  development  of  this  Church  from 
the  beginning.  We  are  distinct  from  all  other  people  upon  the  face 
of  the  earth,  for  we  are  members  of  a  living  Church ;  we  have  all  the 
authority  upon  the  earth  that  God  ever  gave  unto  men ;  and  with  that 
power  and  influence,  is  it  to  be  wondered  at  that  Zion  should  grow 
and  increase,  until,  by  and  by,  this  block  will  not  contain  the  hosts 
of  Israel  that  come  to  conference.  I  was  asked  this  morning  if  it 
would  not  be  a  good  idea  to  build  another  Tabernacle  similar  to  the 
one  that  is  now  crowded  with  nearly  twelve  thousand  people,  and  I 
remarked  to  the  good  brother  who  made  the  inquiry  that  if  we  wanted 
to  accommodate  in  meetings  all  the  people  who  desired  to  come  here, 
we  must  roof  in  the  whole  block  and  hold  meetings  in  every  corner 
thereof. 

I  am  glad  to  observe  the  increase  in  faith  and  the  growth  and  de- 
velopment of  the  work,  as  we  see  it  today.  While  President  B.  S. 
Young  was  speaking  I  was  contemplating  how  this  work  really  com- 
menced. Let  us  briefly  review  it  from  the  lowly  beginning,  when 
the  boy  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  between  the  ages  of  14  and  15,  went 
into  the  grove  near  Palmyra,  New  York,  to  pray.  Think  of  that 
wonderful  demonstration  when  the  Father  and  the  Son  appeared  unto 
him  and  gave  instructions  to  him  to  prepare  for  the  great  mission 
that  had  been  assigned  unto  him.  It  was  a  marvelous  event,  and 
Joseph  scarcely  realized  the  important  work  unto  which  he  had  then 
been  called.  Subsequently  this  was  impressed  more  forcibly  upon 
him  by  the  appearance  of  John  the  Baptist,  who  conferred  upon  the 
youthful  prophet  and  upon  Oliver  Cowdery  the  authority  of  the  holy 
Priesthood,  as  recorded  in  section  13  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants. 
Later  the  heavens  again  opened,  and  angelic  messengers  conferred 
upon  these  two  men  the.  authority  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  with 
all  its  gifts,  powers,  and  blessings,  and  this  authority  has  continued 
with  the  Church  until  the  present  day.  Thus  by  the  direct  ministry 
of  angels  the  Church  was  fully  established.  I  draw  your  attention  to 
these  marvelous  manifestations  so  that  you  may  understand  how  God 


168 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


has  blessed  his  Church  and  caused  it  to  grow  on  the  earth.  Do  you 
marvel  that  the  prophet  Joseph  should  burst  forth  in  song  when  con- 
templating all  that  God  had  done  for  him?  In  section  128  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  after  referring  to  the  restoration  of  the 
holy  Priesthood,  and  after  proclaiming  the  opening  of  a  new  dis- 
pensation through  divine  ministration,  the  prophet  utters  these  im- 
pressive words : 

"Now,  what  do  we  hear  in  the  gospel  which  we  have  received?  A 
voice  of  gladness!  A  voice  of  mercy  from  heaven;  and  a  voice  of  truth 
out  of  the  earth;  glad  tidings  for  the  dead;  a  voice  of  gladness  for  the 
living  and  the  dead;  glad  tidings  of  great  joy.  How  beautiful  upon  the 
mountains  are  the  feet  of  those  that  bring  glad  tidings  of  good  things,  and 
that  say  unto  Zion:  Behold,  thy  God  reigneth!  As  the  dews  of  Carmel, 
so  shall  the  knowledge  of  God  descend  upon  them! 

"And  again,  what  do  we  hear?  Glad  tidings  from  Cumorah !  Moroni, 
an  angel  from  heaven,  declaring  the  fulfilment  of  the  prophets — the  book 
to  be  revealed.  A  voice  of  the  Lord  in  the  wilderness  of  Fayette,  Seneca 
county,  declaring  the  three  witnesses  to  bear  record  of  the  book !  The 
voice  of  Michael  on  the  banks  of  the  Susquehanna,  detecting  the  devil 
when  he  appeared  as  an  angel  of  light!  The  voice  of  Peter,  James,  and 
John  in  the  wilderness  between  Harmony,  Susquehanna  county;  and  Coles- 
ville,  Broome  county,  on  the  Susquehanna  river,  declaring  themselves  as 
possessing  the  keys  of  the  kingdom,  and  of  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness 
of  times! 

"And  again,  the  voice  of  God  in  the  chamber  of  old  Father  Whitmer, 
in  Fayette,  Seneca  county,  and  at  sundry  times,  and  in  divers  places  through 
all  the  travels'  and  tribulations  of  this  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints!  And  the  voice  of  Michael  the  archangel;  the  voice  of  Gabriel,  and 
of  Raphael,  and  of  divers  angels,  from  Michael  or  Adam,  down  to  the 
present  time,  all  declaring  their  dispensation,,  their  rights,  their  keys,  their 
honors,  their  majesty  and  glory,  and  the  power  of  their  Priesthood;  giving 
line  upon  line,  precept  upon  precept;  here  a  little,  and  there  a  little;  giving 
us  consolation  by  holding  forth,  that  which  is  to  come,  confirming  our 
hope ! 

"Brethren,  shall  we  not  go  on  in  so  great  a  cause?  Go  forward  and  not 
backward.  Courage,  brethren;  and  on,  on  to  the  victory!  Let  your  hearts 
rejoice,  and  be  exceedingly  glad.  Let  the  earth  break  forth  into  singing. 
Let  the  dead  speak  forth  anthems  of  eternal  praise  to  the  King  Im- 
manuel,  who  hath  ordained,  before  the  world  was,  that  which  would  enable 
us  to  redeem  them  out  of  their  prison ;  for  the  prisoners  shall  go  free. 

"Let  the  mountains  shout  for  joy,  and  all  y.e  valleys  cry  aloud;  and 
all  ya  seas  and  dry  lands  tell  the  wonders  of  your  Eternal  King!  And  ye 
rivers,  and  brooks,  and  rills,  flow  down  with  gladness.  Let  the  woods, 
and  all  the]  trees  of  the  field  praise  the  Lord;  and  ye  solid  rocks  weep 
for  joy!  And  let  the  sun,,  moon,  and  the  morning  stars  sing  together,  and 
let  all  the  sons  of  God  shout  for  joy!  And  let  the  eternal  creations  declare 
his  name  forever  and  ever!  And  again  I  say,  how  glorious  is  the  voice  we 
hear  from  heaven,  proclaiming  in  our  .ears,  glory,  and  salvation,  and  honor, 
and  immortality,  and  eternal  life;  kingdoms,  principalities,  and  powers." 

This  is  how  the  Prophet  Joseph  felt  when  contemplating  the 
wonderful  revelations  given  of  the  Lord. 

You  have  heard  our  brother  here  speak  of  the  elders  and  their 
influence  and  what  they  are  able  to  accomplish.  These  young  men 
and  young  women,  not  only  in  the  Northwestern  States  mission,  but 


ELDER  BENJAMIN  GODDARD 


169 


in  every  mission  of  the  Church  are  wielding  the  same  wonderful  in- 
fluence. What  is  it  that  gives  them  this  power?  What  is  it  that 
singles  them  out  from  the  multitude  as  men  of  a  different  class,  having 
different  qualifications  and  different  personalities?  What  is  it  that 
impresses  the  people  as  they  gaze  upon  these  youths  and  listen  to  their 
earnest  testimonies  ?  Strangers  upon  this  block,  when  entertained 
by  guides,  often  ask,  "What  have  your  young  people  got  that  impresses 
us  so  much?  What  is  it  that  distinguishes  these  young  people?"  It 
is  the  Priesthood  of  Almighty  God,  and  without  that  we  would  be  no 
more  successful  in  missionary  work  than  are  all  others  of  the  various 
contending  creeds. 

You  brethren  have  received  the  Priesthood  of  Almighty  God.  Our 
youths  hold  the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  They  are  proud  of  it.  They  are 
glad  to  exercise  it.  Our  elders  labor  in  the  authority  of  the  Priesthood 
of  Melchizedek.  Look  over  this  audience.  I  think  possibly  President 
Kimball  will  be  glad  to  know  the  character  of  this  great  assembly.  I 
noticed  when  we  voted  sustaining  the  authorities  of  the  Church  that 
some  raised  their  hands  carelessly  while  others  raised  their  hands  high. 
I  feel  to  bless  the  man  who  in  a  whole-souled  manner  sustains  the  breth- 
ren. Now  appealing  to  you  men  in  the  congregation,  a  great  many  of 
you  have  received  this  Priesthood  given  to  us  by  the  revelations  of 
God,  by  the  ministry  of  angels,  as  referred  to.  How  many  of  you 
in  this  audience,  within  the  sound  of  my  voice,  hold  this  Priesthood? 
We  want  to  learn  by  the  show  of  hands.  All  of  you  that  hold  the 
Priesthood,  raise  your  hands.  I  notice  nearly  all  'of  you  have  re- 
sponded, God  bless  you  all. 

Now,  let  me  give  you  a  final  exhortation.  I  urge  you  to  magnify 
that  Priesthood ;  live  according  to  every  covenant  made  with  God,  and 
let  him  feel  that  you  are  worthy  of  this  divine  power.  If  the  same 
vote  were  called  for  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  and  again  in  the  Taber- 
nacle, ten  thousand  hands  would  readily  be  raised  confirming  the 
thought  that  upon  this  block  today  there  are  thousands  and  thousands 
of  men,  clothed  with  the  authority  and  power  of  Almighty  God.  May 
the  Lord  help  us  to  appreciate  and  to  magnify  it,  that  we  may  be  as 
lights  set  upon  a  hill,  that  cannot  be  hid,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

{Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy) 

Before  I  say  anything  else,  I  have  something  on  my  mind  I 
want  to  get  rid  of  first.  I  call  attention  to  this  picture — you  cannot 
see.  it  very  well  at  so  long  a  distance.  We  have  on  this  platform 
Brother  William  Jex.  He  was  a  great  friend  of  my  father's,  and  if 
he  could  not  think  of  anything  else  to  say  he  began  to  talk  about  Heber 
C.  Kimball.  This  good  man  is  92  years  old.  He  is  a  patriarch.  He 
lives  in  Spanish  Fork.    I  read  the  notation  written  under  the  picture 


170 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


he  handed  to  me.  He  did  not  imagine  I  would  read  it.  This  picture 
shows,  "a  part  of  the  family" — there  is  a  multitude  of  Jexes,  this 
picture  being  only  a  part  of  the  family  "of  William  and  Eliza  Jex, 
taken  at  their  annual  family  reunion  held  January  1,  1914."  Thirty- 
eight  members  of  the  family  then  living  were  not  present — (could  not 
get  them  all  in!).  "William  and  Eliza  Goodson  Jex  were  married  in 
England,  February  22,  1854."'  That  is  one  year  after  I  was  born.  I 
am  now  going  to  tell  you  what  damage  they  have  done  since.  They 
embarked  on  a  vessel  bound  for  America.  "The  family  now  consists 
of  the  aged  couple,  eleven  children,  115  grandchildren,  151  great- 
grandchildren, and  five  of  the  fifth  generation,  making  a  total,  on 
October  1,  1921,  of  360 — including  64  who  have  become  members  of 
the  family  by  marriage.    Seventy-four  of  these  have  died." 

Now  the  climax  comes.  "The  Jex  family  has  spent  altogether  76 
years  in  the  foreign  missionary  service,  preaching  the  gospel,  at  an 
expense  of  $70,000  of  their  own  means,  over  and  above  all  their  time 
for  which  they  received  no  compensation. 

I  call  that  faith  and  works.  It  puts  me  in  mind  of  what  my  father 
said  in  talking  in  early  days  about  this  people.  He  said :  "This 
people  will  multiply  and  increase  until  we  will  hardly  know  where  to 
put  them."  Father  told  the  Gentiles,  "You  will  never  be  able  to  kill 
them  off."    Brother  Jex  has  taken  part  in  fulfiling  this  prophecy. 

It  is  not  my  purpose  to  talk  very  much.  I  haven't  an  outdoor 
voice.  I  have  been  trying  to  be  sick  for  a  couple  of  years,  and  I  have 
rather  fizzled  out  on  it.  I  feel  a  good  deal  like  the  story  I  read  the 
other  day.  "Some  fellow  was  sitting  on  the  pier  that  reached  out  into 
the  ocean> — and  he  fell  in,  and  he  holloed,  "Help!  help!  I  can't  swim." 
And  an  old  fellow  was  sitting  on  the  pier  fishing,  and  he  said :  "Neither 
can  I,  but  I  wouldn't  brag  about  it."  I  don't  want  to  brag  about  sick- 
ness, because  it  is  a  kind  of  a  disgrace  to  get  sick  in  this  Church,  and 
not  have  faith  to  be  healed.  I  was  talking  in  one  of  the  stakes  of  Zion 
to  a  bunch  of  careless  Seventies,  and  I  was  trying  to  inject  into  them  a 
little  faith.  Some  fellow  bawled  out,  "How  do  you  get  faith?"  Well, 
it  was  such  a  sudden  shock  to  me,  I  said,  "I'll  be  blamed  if  I  know." 
I  told  one  of  the  greatest  truths  I  have  spoken  for  some  time  al- 
though somewhat  crude.  How  do  you  know  how  you  are  going  to 
get  it?  How  do  you  know  when  you  are  going  to  get  it?  Nobody 
does.  It  just  comes.  And  then  it  goes,  and  sometimes  we  do  not 
have  faith.  That  is  about  the  way  I  have  been  since  I  have  been  sick. 
I  have  not  had  faith  to  be  healed,  and  I  have  been  ashamed.  But 
I  want  to  testify  to  you,  and  then  read  something  into  the  record,  and 
then  quit.  I  guess  there  is  a  reporter  here,  isn't  there?  I  am  always 
afraid  of  those  "blooming  reporters ;"  they  always  get  things  down  as 
I  say  it,  but  it  don't  sound  well.  It  sounds  all  right  when  I  deliver  it, 
but  it  doesn't  read  well  in  print.  I  don't  know  whether  you  believe 
what  I  say  or  not,  and  I  don't  care.  All  I  care  for  is  to  finish  my  work, 
deliver  my  message,  get  through  with  this  business,  and  if  God  can  see 


ELDER  ].  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


171 


fit  in  his  mercy  to  give  me  salvation,  that  is  all  I  want ;  it  is  a  mighty  big 
thing  to  ask  for — for  the  greatest  gift  of  God  to  his  children  is  salva- 
tion." My  mother  started  out  for  a  celestial  glory.  It  is  too  big  a 
climb  for  me.  If  I  can  get  salvation,  1  will  be  happily  surprised.  Heber 
C.  Kimball  said :  "If  some  of  you  'Mormons'  get  salvation,  you  will 
be  more  surprised  than  anybody  else." 

There  are  some  things  I  know  just  as  well  as  any  Latter-day  Saint 
knows.  I  am  old  enough  to  know  a  thing  or  two.  I  ought  to  know 
pretty  near  as  much  as  some  people  who  haven't  had  any  more  ex- 
perience than  I  have.  My  only  trouble  is  that  I  may  lack  authority 
to  do  and  say  some  things,  but  I  have  got!  all  I  can  attend  to.  I  have 
ordained  hundred  of  Seventies.  I  do  not  know  but  it  is  thousands. 
Eight  hundred  and  ninety  Seventies  have  been  ordained  since  Janu- 
ary 1,  1922.  Some  of  them  are  little  good,  but  I  did  my  work  all 
right.  I  have  set  apart  hundreds  for  foreign  missions,  and  they  have 
come  back,  many  of  them,  and  said,  "Everything  you  promised  me 
came  true." 

I  have  seen  the  sick  healed  under  my  administration.  I  have  wit- 
nessed nearly  all  kinds  of  diseases  cured.  And  I  will  say  right  here, 
as  far  as  God  is  concerned,  and  Jesus  Christ,  there  is  no  disease  that 
is  incurable,  if  faith  is  exercised.  I  know  that  I  have  the  key,  that  I 
hold  the  Priesthood,  and  there  isn't  a  man  in  all  the  world  to  make  me 
believe  that  I  have  not  got  it.  It  may  be  I  do  not  live  up  to  all  the 
requirements — I  will  now  begin  to  read  into  the  record.  I  write  books, 
but  I  put  them  in  a  pigeon  hole  and  lock  them  up  where  they  cannot 
do  any  damage.  I  feel  aroused  sometimes  and  the  palms  of  my  hands 
just  itch  to  take  hold  of  the  jaw-bone  of  an  ass  and  beat  these  things 
into  dull  men's  skulls;  I  would  do  it,  too,  if  I  only  had  the  jaw-bone. 
This  is  what  I  want  to  read  to  you.  I  want  you  to  think  about  it.  It 
is  nothing  new.  But  I  want  you  to  think  about  it  as  I  have  thought 
about  it ;  for  I  have  read  it  dozens  of  times,  and  that  is  one  big  reason 
I  am  a  member  of  this  Church.  If  I  did  not  believe  what  I  am  going 
to  read,  I  would  quit  the  Church  tomorrow. 

These  are  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith's  words.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith's  words  of  instructions  to  apostles,  at  the  last  meeting 
held  prior  to  their  leaving  on  missions.  You  remember  when  that 
was,  when  they  went  to  England  and  to  other  places.    He  said : 

"Brethren,  I  have  desired  to  see  the  temple  built.  I  will  never  live  to 
see  it,  but  you  will.  I  have  sealed  upon  your  heads  all  the  keys  of  the 
Kingdom  of  God.  I  have  sealed  upon  you  every  key,  power,  principle, 
that  the  God  of  heaven  has  revealed  to  me."  ( You  see  we  received  all 
the  keys.)  "Now,  no  matter  where  I  may  go  or  what  I  may  do,  the 
Kingdom  rests  upon  you."  [See?  He  fixed  that;  he  knew  something 
about  what  was  going  to  happen.] 

President  Wilford  Woodruff,  who  was  one  of  the  most  wonderful 
men  I  ever  knew — was  a  man  who  talked  to  me  occasionally ;  I  never 
arose  after  a  five-minutes'  talk  that  I  did  not  know  that  he  was  a 


172 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


prophet  of  God.  He  made  these  remarks  at  a  Mutual  Improvement 
conference,  held  June  2,  1889: 

"Do  you  wonder  why  we,  as  apostles,  could  not  have  understood 
that  the  prophet  of  God  was  going  to  be  taken  from  us  ?  Neither  could 
the  apostles  in  the  days  of  Jesus  Christ  understand  what  the  Savior 
meant  when  he  told  them,  'I  am  going  away ;  if  I  do  not  go  away,  the 
Comforter  will  not  come.'  "    President  Woodruff  continued : 

"Joseph  Smith  made  these  impressive  remarks  on  the  same  oc- 
casion, 'Ye  apostles  of  the  Lamb  of  God,  my  brethren,  upon  your 
shoulders  this  Kingdom  rests ;  you  have  got  to  round  up  your  shoulders 
and  bear  off  this  Kingdom.  If  you  do  not  do  it,  you  will  be  damned.'  " 
— And  so  will  the  rest  of  us,  if  we  do  not  do  our  duty. 

President  Brigham  Young  said,  after  the  martyrdom  of  the 
Prophet,  "Thank  God,  the  keys  of  the  Kingdom  are  here." 

President  Wilford  Woodruff  continued,  "The  keys  of  the  King- 
dom will  remain  with  the  Church  until  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man, 
which  means  until  the  coming  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  the  clouds 
of  heaven  to  reward  every  man  according  to  his  deeds  done  in  the 
flesh.  There  have  always  been  manifested  among  a  certain  coterie  of 
men,  who  say  that  Joseph  Smith,  Brigham  Young,  and  others  who 
have  been  presidents  of  the  Church  were  not  the  right  men  to  lead  the 
Church."  [I  have  heard  that  same  thing  said  hundreds  of  times.  I 
have  heard  it  lately,  "President  Grant  is  not  the  right  man."  There 
are  a  number  of  men  today,  and  always  will  be,  who  feel  in  their 
hearts  that  they  ought  to  lead  the  Church,  that  they  ought  to  be 
chosen  apostles.  The  woods  are  full  of  them  every  time  there  is  a 
vacancy.  This  same  class  of  men  feel  that  the  Church  itself  is  out 
of  gear  and  going  wrong.  President  Woodruff  made  this  broad  re- 
mark.] "I  say  to  all  Israel ;  I  say  it  to  the  whole  world,  that  the  God 
of  Israel,  who  organized  this  Church  and  Kingdom,  never  ordained 
any  president  or  presidency  to  lead  the  Church  astray."  I  am  glad 
of  that,  so  that  we  need  not  worry  about  the  Church.  God  knows  we 
have  enough  other  things  to  worry  about.  Go  home  and  go  to  sleep ; 
God  will  never  allow  them  to  lead  us  astray. 

The  question  has  been  asked  many  times  [now  I  have  heard  this 
until  I  am  tired  and  lame  all  up  the  back],  "Why  is  it  the  apostles  who 
are  standing  as  prophets,  seers,  and  revelators  do  not  have  revelations?" 
The  answer  is  given  by  President  Woodruff,  and  I  would  like  to  have 
this  truth  soak  into  you.  The  answer  is  given  by  President  Woodruff 
as  follows :  "I  hold  in  my  hand  a  book  of  revelations"  [meaning  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants],  "which  contains  enough  revelations  to  lead 
this  Church  into  the  celestial  kingdom  of  God."  [That  is  about  as  far 
as  some  of  us  will  ever  get !]  "Anybody  who  will  obey  and  live 
up  to  these  revelations  can  be  saved  in  the  celestial  glory."  [There 
are  hundreds  in  this  crowd,  and  you  can  count  me  in  with  them,  who  do 
not  even  keep  the  Ten  Commandments,  and  then  we  are  hunting  for 
more  revelations.]    "We  are  not  without  revelations,"  says  President 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


173 


Woodruff,  "the  heavens  are  full  of  them,  and  so  is  the  holy  Priest- 
hood. You  will  conclude  that  I  do  not  believe  in  any  more  revelation. 
If  you  had  before  you  every  revelation  God  ever  gave  to  man,  the 
Church  and  Kingdom  of  God  could  not  progress  and  advance  with- 
out the  living  oracles  of  God."  Do  not  forget  that,  I  do  not  care  how 
much  revelations  you  have ;  the  living  oracles  of  God  have  got  to  have 
revelation  and  inspiration  and  prophecy  from  above. 

The  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  the  Seventies,  the 
High  Priests,  the  Bishops,  all  need  revelation  in  all  their  administra- 
tions. What  can  a  Bishop  do  without  revelation  ?  What  can  the  presi- 
dent of  a  mission  do?  What  can  an  elder  do?  Haven't  I  heard  the 
voice?  Haven't  I  been  a  stranger  in  a  strange  land?  Haven't  I  been 
tired  and  hungry,  no  place  to  lay  my  head,  and  I  have  heard  the  voice, 
"this  is  the  way,  walk  ye  in  it."  The  Holy  Spirit  softened  the  hearts 
of  the  people,  and  they  fed  me  and  cared  for  me.  I  have  heard  the 
voice  more  than  once.  I  heard  that  voice  when  I  was  a  young,  wild, 
reckless  young  man.  I  did  not  know  what  it  was.  I  told  my  brother 
Elias,  "I  hear  a  voice;  it  tells  me  something  a  hundred  miles  away." 
And  I  knew  all  about  it  before  my  mother  knew  it,  and  Elias  thought 
I  was  going  crazy — and  so  did  I.  But  it  was  the  right  voice.  I 
didn't  know  what  it  meant  then,  but  I  know  what  it  means  now. 

I  am  about  through.  You  are  the  best  outstanding  crowd  I  ever 
talked  to  in  my  life.  You  know  how  it  is ;  we  get  people  to  talk  to 
inside,  and  lock  them  in,  so  they  can't  get  out !  I  remember  being  up 
north.  I  said,  "All  you  people  that  want  to  go,  go  ;"  and  they  nearly  all 
went,  and  I  didn't  blame  them. 

"No  man,"  says  President  Woodruff,  "can  be  a  witness  for  God 
and  lift  up  his  voice  and  declare  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  true 
without  revelation.  The  Holy  Ghost,  the  Comforter,  which  is  the 
spirit  of  prophecy  and  revelation,  is  not  restricted  and  given  only 
to  'apostles  and  prophets.'  Do  not  forget  it.  It  comes  to-  and  goes 
with  all  Latter-day  Saints,  men,  and  women  [thank  God  they  get  a 
little  of  it,  too;  they  need  it  just  as  much  as  men  do]  men  and  women 
and  children,  who  have  accepted  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  can  have 
inspiration  and  revelation,  for  their  own  guidance."  "Therefore,  verily, 
thus  saith  the  Lord,  Let  Zion  rejoice,  for  this  is  Zion,  the  pure  in 
heart.  For  behold  and  lo,  vengeance  cometh  speedily,  upon  the  un- 
godly, like  a  whirlwind,  and  who  shall  escape?  Zion  shall  escape,  if 
she  observe  to  do  all  things  whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you." 

God  bless  you.  Amen. 

After  singing  by  the  choir,  the  benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  B.  S.  Hinckley,  counselor  in  the  Presidency  of  the  Liberty  stake 
of  Zion. 


CLOSING  SESSION 


The  Conference  was  continued  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Sunday 
afternoon,  October  8,  1922,  at  2  o'clock.  President  Heber  J.  Grant 
presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire 
is  burning." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Soren  Rasmussen,  President  of  the 
Jordan  stake  of  Zion. 

A  solo  by  August  Glissmeyer  was  rendered  with  the  choir  ac- 
companying, "The  Lord  hath  brought  again  Zion,"  music  by  Arthur 
Shepherd,  the  words  from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  arranged  by 
Elder  B.  H.  Roberts. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

When  this  great  auditorium  was  built,  we  were  a  thousand  miles 
from  civilization;  nails  were  worth  a  dollar  a  pound,  therefore  the 
building  is  mostly  pinned  together  with  wooden  pins. 

Elder  Junius  F.  Wells  handed  me  a  memorandum  day  before 
yesterday  and  I  have  had  it  copied,  and  I  am  sure  it  will  be  of  interest 
to  all  of. the  people  here  assembled: 

THE  FIRST  CONFERENCE  IN  THE  GREAT  TABERNACLE 

"Fifty-five  years  ago  today,  October  6,  1867,  the  first  General 
Conference  ever  held  in  this  building  convened,  on  Sunday  morning 
at  10  o'clock. 

"The  building  was  incomplete — there  was  no  gallery.  The  gallery 
was  added  in  1870;  improvised  seats;  the  organ  was  partly  built,  700 
pipes,  and  it  was  announced  that  when  finished  there  would  be  2000 
pipes.  Joseph  J.  Daynes  played  upon  it.  Choir  was  led  by  Robert 
Sands.  The  choirs  of  Springville,  Payson  and  Spanish  Fork  attended — 
Elder  Fishburn  conductor.  Croxall's  Brass  Band,  Eardley's  Ogden 
Band  and  the  Nephi  Brass  Band  attended.  A  hymn  by  Eliza  R.  Snow 
composed  for  the  occasion  was  sung.  Solos  were  sung  by  W.  C.  Dun- 
bar and  J.  T.  D.  McAllister. 

"The  General  Authorities  were:  First  Presidency:  Brigham  Young, 
Heber  C.  Kimball  and  Daniel  H.  Wells.  Quorum  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles :  Orson  Hyde,  Orson  Pratt,  Sen.,  John  Taylor,  Wilford  Wood- 
ruff, George  A.  Smith,  Ezra  T.  Benson,  Charles  C.  Rich,  Lorenzo 
Snow,  Erastus  Snow,  Franklin  D.  Richards,  George  Q.  Cannon  and 
Joseph  F.  Smith.  (All  present  but  F.  D.  Richards  presiding  in  the 
European  Mission.)  Patriarch:  John  Smith.  First  Seven  Presidents 
of  Seventies :  Joseph  Young,  Levi  W.  Hancock,  Henry  Harriman,  Al- 
bert P.  Rockwood,  Horace  S.  Eldredge,  Jacob  Gates  and  John  Van 
Cott.  Presiding  Bishopric:  Edward  Hunter,  Leonard  W.  Hardy  and 
Jesse  C.  Little.  Reporters:  George  D.  Watt,  David  W.  Evans,  Edward 
L.  Sloan,  Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


175 


"Of  the  General  Authorities  sustained  that  day  all  died  in  the  faith. 
(Four  of  the  Twelve  became  Presidents  and  three  Counselors  in  the 
First  Presidency.)  Neither  before  this  period  nor  for  thirty  years 
afterwards  could  this  be  said.  The  Church  then  numbered  less  than 
120,000.    It  has  increased  three-fold  if  not  four  in  the  fifty-five  years. 

SUBJECTS  AND  REMARKS  BY  THE  SPEAKERS  55  YEARS  AGO 

"President  Young  congratulated  the  workmen  and  the  people  on 
the  good  work  done  towards  completing  the  building  and  gave  out  a 
number  of  texts  for  the  brethren  to  preach  upon :  The  Perpetual  Emi- 
gration Fund ;  Education  of  Children  in  the  Ways  of  the  Lord ;  and  of 
Young  Women  in  Business,  so  that  they  could  be  profitably  employed 
in  Light  Labor,  such  as  Bookkeeping  and  Store  Work ;  On  Raising 
Five  Hundred  Teams  to  Haul  Rock  for  the  Temple;  On  the  South- 
ern Mission;  On  Temperance  in  Eating  and  Drinking;  and  the  Word 
of  Wisdom. 

"Elder  Orson  Hyde  said :  'This  is  the  largest  congregation  I  ever 
addressed  and  the  largest  assembly  of  religious  worshipers  I  have  ever 
seen  together.'  The  house  was  filled  to  overflowing.  He  testified  that 
at  a  meeting  in  Iowa,  in  1848,  the  Lord  revealed  to  the  Twelve  Apos- 
tles and  others  that  Brigham  Young  should  be  their  leader. 

"Elder  Orson  Pratt  remarked  upon  how  the  great  tabernacle  ap- 
peared towering  above  other  buildings  like  an  artificial  mountain — - 
"the  Mountain  of  the  Lord's  House  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains,"  as 
he  came  down  Parley's  Canyon,  returning  from  his  late  mission  to 
Europe.  He  delivered  a  powerful  discourse  on  the  personality  of 
God,  and  touched  on  the  resurrection. 

"President  Young  said  he  did  not  know  how  the  resurrection 
would  be  but  supposed  he  knew  as  much  about  it  as  any  one.  'No 
man  can  explain  it  except  he  has  received  the  keys  of  it  by  revela- 
tion.' He  said  that  we  should  preserve  our  personality  and  that  the 
essential  parts  of  our  bodies  endure  forever. 

"Elder  John  Taylor  spoke  upon  the  supremacy  and  superiority 
of  the  laws  and  government  of  God  over  the  governments  of  men, 
and  of  the  comprehensiveness  of  the  gospel,  comparing  savage  and 
civilized  peoples. 

"Elder  Wilford  Woodruff  spoke  of  the  wonderful  providence  of 
God  in  the  growth  of  the  people,  in  means  and  members,  and  advised 
the  young  people  to  marry  and  lay  the  foundation  for  homes  and 
happiness. 

"Elder  George  A.  Smith  advocated  home  manufactures,  recom- 
mending the  use  and  economy  of  wooden-soled  shoes  and  urged  the 
people  to  emigrate  the  poor. 

"President  Brigham  Young  delivered  a  wonderful  sermon  on  the 
Word  of  Wisdom.  He  said :  'It  is  wisdom  for  us  not  to  drink  liquor, 
tea  and  coffee,  and  to  let  tobacco  alone.'  If  there  are  any  cases  when 
a  cup  of  tea  or  a  little  tobacco  will  do  good  he  would  not  object  to 
their  being  taken ;  but  who  is  to  be  the  judge  of,  when  they  will  do 


176 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


good?  He  was  satisfied  that  when  the  least  lenity  is  given,  there 
would  be  a  disposition  to  treat  resolution.  Some  seem  to  think  that 
this  counsel  will  soon  die  away  and  that  the  people  will  return  to  the 
use  of  tea,  coffee,  tobacco  and  liquor.  He  would  say  that  if  any  of 
the  Elders  of  Israel  should  treat  this  counsel  lightly  he  would  promise 
them  the  curse  of  God  would  be  upon  them.  It  is  required  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  that  they  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  if  they 
trifle  with  it  they  will  be  sorry  for  it.  He  spoke  briefly  several  times 
during  the  conference.  He  offered  the  opening  prayer  and  he  made 
the  benediction. 

"Elder  Ezra  T.  Benson  spoke  on  home  industries,  and  referred  to 
the  good  effect  of  President  Young's  recent  trip  in  the  North. 

"Elder  Charles  C.  Rich  spoke  briefly  on  home  industries  and 
upon  the  unity  of  the  Saints,  saying  there  never  had  been  a  time  when 
they  were  more  united  than  at  the  present. 

"Elder  Lorenzo  Snow  spoke  on  education  and  preaching  the  gos- 
pel, warning  the  nations  of  the  judgments  and  calamities  coming.  He 
illustrated  his  theme  by  reciting  the  dreams  of  Joseph  and  their  ful- 
filment in  Egypt. 

"Elder  Erastus  Snow  spoke  prophetically  of  the  South  country 
saying  there  were  elements  of  great  worth  there,  which  in  time,  would 
justify  the  wisdom  of  colonizing  that  country.  About  one  hundred  and 
fifty  young  men  were  called  to  go  south  and  live,  and  strengthen  the 
settlements  there.  This  was  the  'Muddy  Mission.'  The  names  were 
called  out  by  Elder  George  Q.  Cannon,  who  also  presented  the  Gen- 
eral Authorities  sustained  as  above.  He  spoke  on  education,  and  of 
the  regeneration  of  a  people  through  observing  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 
He  also  laid  before  the  audience  the  plan  of  the  Sunday  School  Union 
soon  to  be  organized. 

"Elder  Joseph  F.  Smith  was  called  into  the  Twelve  to  fill  the  ex- 
isting vacancy.  He  delivered  an  interesting  discourse  on  individual 
duty  and  obligations  and  advised  all  foreign  born  Saints  to  learn  to 
speak  the  English  language.  He  said :  'Our  mission  is  jo  work  right- 
eousness and  to  bring  all  things  subservient  to  the  will  of  God.' 

"President  Young  paid  Brother  Joseph  F.  Smith  a  remarkable 
tribute,  and  commented  upon  the  honors,  rights  and  privileges  of  every 
man  holding  an  office  in  the  Priesthood.  'No  man  succeeds  to  the 
crown  or  honors  of  another;  each  secures  his  own  by  his  faithfulness 
and  his  deserts.' 

"On  Tuesday,  October  8,  the  President  said  there  were  things 
he  would  like  to  teach  the  people  that  would  keep  them  together  con- 
tinuously, but  it  was  not  prudent  to  hold  them  too  long.  A  vote  was 
then  taken  to  decide  whether  to  adjourn  conference  for  six  months  or 
to  continue  it  over  another  day.  The  vote  was  to  continue,  and  so  the 
fourth  day,  Wednesday,  October  9,  meetings  were  held  all  day.  The 
emigration  of  Saints  from  Europe  was  stressed  by  all  the  speakers. 

A  REMARKABLE  GATHERING 

"This  was  a  remarkable  conference.    There  were  no  railroads  here 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


177 


then,  no  street  cars,  no  paved  streets,  no  sewers,  electric  or  gas  lights, 
no  telephones,  automobiles  or  radiographs,  nor  three  story  buildings 
in  Utah.  There  were  no  High  Schools,  Improvement  Associations  or 
Primaries.  The  University  had  but  a  nominal  existence.  The  in- 
structions were  nevertheless  to  preach  the  gospel  of  Christ ;  emigrate 
t  he  poor ;  build  up  Zion  substantially ;  educate  the  children ;  cultivate 
the  land ;  produce  our  own  wares,  food  and  fabrics ;  set  our  own  fash- 
ions ;  be  kind  to  families,  charitable  to  all  people,  clean,  refined,  vir- 
tuous, lovers  of  God,  obedient  to  his  counsels,  and  loyal  to  country 
and  one  another." 

I  felt  sure  that  this  audience  would  be  pleased  to  hear  what 
transpired  in  that  conference!  fifty-five  years  ago — before  I  was  eleven 
years  old. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 
(Introducing  Mr.  J.  R.  Howard) 

We  have  the  honor  of  having  present  with  us  today,  President 
J.  R.  Howard,  of  the  Farm  Bureaus  of  the  United  States  of  America, 
and  he  has  consented  to  address  us.    He  will  be  the  next  speaker. 

MR.  J.  R.  HOWARD 

{President  of  the  U.  S.  Farm  Bureaus) 

I  deem  it  a  very  great  privilege,  as  well  as  a  favor,  to  stand  before 
you  and  acknowledge  before  you  my  belief  in  God,  and  in  his  Son, 
and  in  the  guidance  of  his  Holy  Spirit. 

I  come  from  a  farming  community.  Agriculture  is  my  business. 
My  neighbors,  as  well  as  myself,  belong  to  the  common  people  of 
America,  and  I  am  glad  to  know  that  in  this  audience,  and  in  this 
splendid  inter-mountain  empire,  there  are  many  of  my  own  kind  of 
folk. 

I  am  sure  you  will  agree  with  me  that  the  measure  of  strength  of 
any  church  or  any  government  or  any  school,  is  that  of  the  average 
individual.  The  purpose  of  us  all,  in  our  work,  is  to  raise  the  level  of 
the  average,  rather  than  to  create  an  aristrocracy  of  wealth  or  of  in- 
tellect. We  are  going  through  trying  and  troublous  times,  as  a  peo- 
ple. I  am  convinced  that  there  is  but  one  thing  that  is  going  to  re- 
store normalcy  in  this  world,  and  that  is  the  advancement  of  the  re- 
ligion of  Christ.  We  will  not  get  back  to  the  place  where  we  can 
further  make  progress,  except  we  are  anchored  on  things  eternal. 

On  my  farm,  as  I  go  to  my  work,  and  look  at  my  crops,  I  love  to 
see,  in  their  growth,  the  work  of  a  divine  hand.  I  never  travel  or 
cross  the  mountains  but  what  I  think  of  the  eternal  God  which  made 
those  hills.  But  we,  as  a  people,  need  to  recognize  God,  not  alone  as 
the  God  of  the  fields,  of  the  flowers  and  the  plants;  not  alone  as  the 
God  of  the  mountains,  but  we  must  recognize  him  as  the  God  of  the 
human  heart.    So,  I  am  glad  to  bring  you  this  greeting,  and  to  tell 


178 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


you  that  the  spirituality  of  this  session  and  the  session  of  this  morning 
are  as  a  sweet  incense  upon  my  soul. 

I  often  think  of  a  patriarch  and  prophet  of  old,  who  returned  to 
his  country  after  it  had  been  devastated  by  enemies.  He  found  the 
walls  of  the  city  down,  and  the  temple  destroyed.  He  set  about,  with 
a  brave  heart,  to  rebuild  the  walls  of  that  city,  but  the  enemies  on 
the  plains  beset  him  and  hindered  him  and  harassed  him,  but  the  brave 
old  man  worked  on,  regardless  of  the  enemy.  Finally,  the  last  gate 
of  the  wall  was  almost  completed,  and  the  enemy,  in  order  to  distract 
him  from  his  work  sent  a  delegation  to  him  saying,  "Come  down  to 
one  of  the  cities  of  the  plains  and  let  us  talk  this  thing  over."  I  want 
to  bring  you  his  reply  today,  and  to  say  to  you  that  I  hope  that  your 
lives  are  so  adjusted,  whether  you  be  farmer  or  merchant,  manufac- 
turer, laborer,  school-teacher  or  housewife,  whether  your  position  be 
high  or  lowly ;  I  hope  that  his  reply  will  be  your  reply,  as  it  is  mine.  I 
imagine  I  can  see  the  flash  in  the  old  man's  eye  and  the  straightening 
of  his  shoulders,  as  he  said  to  those  who  sought  to  distract  him  from 
his  noble  work,  and  get  him  to  come  down  to  the  city  of  the  plains. 
These  were  his  words:  "I  am  doing  a  great  work.  I  cannot  come 
down." 

May  those  be  your  words,  and  may  He  who  rules  over  the  destinies 
of  men  and  nations  continue  with  you  and  all  of  us  in  your  good  work. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  and  by  unani- 
mous vote  of  the  assembly,  they  were  sustained  in  their  various  offices 
and  callings,  as  follows : 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Charles  W.  Penrose,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Reed  Smoot  James  E.  Talmage 

George  Albert  Smith  Stephen  L.  Richards 

George  F.  Richards  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

David  O.  McKay  John  A.  Widtsoe 

PRESIDING  PATRIARCH 

Hyrum  G.  Smith 
The  counselors  of  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and 
the  Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


179 


FIRST  SEVEN  PRESIDENTS  OF  SEVENTY 

Seymour  B.  Young-  Joseph  W.  McMurrin 

Brigham  H.  Roberts  Charles  H.  Hart 

Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Levi  Edgar  Young 
Rulon  S.  Wells 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Charles  W.  Nibley,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.'  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Trustee-in-Trust,  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants :  Andrew 
Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A.  Wm.  Lund,  Junius  F.  Wells. 

CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Charles  W.  Penrose  David  O.  McKay 

Anthony  W.  Ivins  Stephen  L.  Richards 

Willard  Young  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Rudger  Clawson  Arthur  Winter, 
Orson  F.  Whitney  Secy,  and  Treas. 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

COMMISSIONERS  OF  EDUCATION 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Stephen  L.  Richards  Richard  R.  Lyman 

SUPERINTENDENT  OF  CHURCH  SCHOOLS 

Adam  S.  Bennion 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Henry  H.  Rolapp  John  C.  Cutler  Peter  G.  Johnston 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor  Edward  P.  Kimball  and  Tracy  Y. 

B.  Cecil  Gates,  Asst.  Conductor  Cannon,  Asst.  Organists 

John  J.  McClellan,  Organist  George  C.  Smith,  Sec.  and  Treas. 

And  all  the  members  of  the  choir. 

CLERK  OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Edward  H.  Anderson 


180 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

My  brethren  arid  sisters :  There  is  a  large  clock  in  the  other  end 
of  this  building,  that  is  greatly  illuminated.  It  is  placed  there  for 
the  benefit  and  help  of  the  speakers.  When  I  am  sitting  on  my  seat 
I  can  see  the  time  clearly,  but  when  I  arise  to'  speak  in  this  great 
building,  in  the  midst  of  this  great  congregation,  I  regret  to  say  I  go 
blind  and  cannot  see  the  time  (laughter). 

I  wish  to  commend  and  to  congratulate  Professor  Lund  and  the 
Tabernacle  choir,  and  the  young  lady  soloist,  for  the  anthem  that  was 
sung  at  the  closing  meeting  this  morning.  It  was  magnificently  done. 
The  young  lady  has  a  wonderful  voice.  It  went  up  and  up  to  such  a 
high  note  that  T  thought  for  a  moment  the  drum  of  my  ear  was 
shattered,  but  it  was  not ;  and  then  she  went  up  and  up  and  up  until 
it  seemed  to  me  that  she  stood  on  the  edge  of  a  precipice  and  would 
surely  go  over,  but  she  did  not.  It  was  a  wonderful  performance, 
and  the  anthem  this  afternoon  also  was  grand,  impressive  and  beau- 
tifully rendered. 

Day  before  yesterday,  I  was  proud  and  high-minded  and  lifted  up 
in  my  feelings.  Through  some  strange  accident,  I  got  hold  of  the  hat 
of  President  Penrose  and  wore  it  all  the  afternoon.  I  am  free  to  con- 
fess that  I  could  not' fill  his  shoes,  but  I  filled  his  hat  (laughter). 

VIOLATION  OF  MORAL  LAW  A  FATAL  AND  DEADLY  SIN 

The  President  in  the  opening  meeting  gave  the  keynote  to  the 
conference  by  counseling  obedience  to  law ;  obedience  to  divine  law, 
and  obedience  to  the  law  of  the  land.  The  divine  law  is  always  a  right- 
eous law  and  needs  no  repealing.  The  law  of  man  generally,  and  in 
the  main,  is  a  righteous  one.  Sometimes  the  laws  of  man  are  not 
righteous,  therefore  when  they  are  not  righteous  they  ought  to  be 
repealed.  Most  of  the  speakers  of  the  conference  have  touched  upon 
this  vital  question  from  various  angles.  It  would  be  well  perhaps 
to  treat  it  for  a  few  moments  from  still  another  angle.  Let  me  say, 
I  feel  that  I  am  justified  in  saying,  that  there  is  no  future  for  any 
nation  that  despises  virtue,  and  continuously  and  persistently  violates 
the  moral  law.  This  is  a  fatal  and  deadly  sin.  Whenever  the  cup 
of  their  iniquity  is  full,  such  nation  or  nations  will  be  overthrown  and 
suffer  the  displeasure  of  an  offended  God.  This  assertion,  brethren 
and  sisters,  is  attested  by  many  examples  of  sacred  as  well  as  profane 
history. 

AN  EXAMPLE  FROM  PROFANE  HISTORY 

For  instance,  take  Rome.  One  of  the  greatest  and  most  powerful 
empires  of  the  ancient  world  was  the  Roman  Empire.  It  had  in  it 
the  strength  of  iron  to  bruise,  to  crush  and  to  break  in  pieces.  It 
conquered  many  nations  and  kingdoms  and  brought  them  into  subjec- 
tion. The  fear  of  Rome  extended  to  all  the  known  world  of  that 
day,  and  to  be  called  a  Roman  citizen  was  regarded  as  a  great  dis- 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


181 


tinction.  In  the  early  days  and  years  of  Rome,  as  I  have  said,  she  was 
strong,  she  was  invincible  but  in  later  years  through  yielding  to  the 
subtle  influence  of  luxurious  living  and  the  violation  of  the  moral  law, 
she  became  weak,  and  was  finally  broken  to  pieces.  A  French  editor, 
M.  Guizot,  gives  us  a  short,  vivid  picture  of  the  decline  and  fall  of 
Rome,  in  the  preface  of  Gibbon's  Rome.   This  is  what  he  said: 

"The  gradual  decline  of  the  most  extraordinary  dominion  which  has 
ever  invaded  and  oppressed  the  wor'd ;  the  fall  of  that  immense  empire, 
erected  on  the  ruins  of  so  many  kingdoms,  republics  and  states,  both  bar- 
barous and  civi'ized,  and  forming  in  its  turn,  by  its  dismemberment,  a  mul- 
titude of  States,  republics  and  kingdoms;  the  annihilation  of  the  religion 
of  Greece  and  Rome;  the  birth  and  the  progress  of  the  two  new  religions 
which  have  shared  the  most  beautiful  regions  of  the  earth;  the  decrepitude 
of  the  ancient  world,  the  spectacle  of  its  expiring  glory  and  degenerate 
manners  *  *  *  such  a  subject  must  necessarily  fix  the  attention  and 
excite  the  interest  of  men,  who  cannot  behold  with  indifference  those  mem- 
orable epochs." 

Other  examples  in  profane  history  might  be  given. 

ILLUSTRATIONS    FROM    SACRED  SCRIPTURE 

Let  us  turn  for  a  few  moments  to  sacred  history :  In  the  early 
years  of  the  world  the  people  became  very  wicked.  Noah,  a  prophet 
and  a  righteous  man,  preached  to  them  one  hundred  twenty  years  and 
pleaded  with  the  people  to  repent  of  their  sins  and  to  forsake  them, 
but  to  no  avail.  They  were  guilty  of  every  kind  and  species  of  wicked- 
ness, and  "God  saw  that  the  wickedness  of  man  was  great  in  the  earth 
and  that  every  imagination  of  the  thoughts  of  his  heart  was  only  evil 
continually."  And  again  the  record  says:  "God  looked  upon  the  earth 
and  beheld  it  was  corrupt,  for  all  flesh  had  corrupted  his  way  upon 
the  earth."  It  was  then,  God  decreed  that  all  flesh  should  be  de- 
stroyed. He  sent  the  flood,  and  the  children  of  men  were  submerged, 
only  Noah  and  his  family  escaping. 

The  Lord  brought  the  children  of  Israel  up  out  of  Egypt  and  out 
of  bondage  with  power  and  an  outstretched  arm.  He  brought  them 
into  the  wilderness,  he  brought  them  to  Mount  Sinai,  and  there,  with 
a  demonstration  of  his  power  and  might  in  the  midst  of  thunders  and 
lightnings,  gave  to  them  the  moral  law.  It  was  bound  up  in  the  Ten 
Commandments — "Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery."  This  law  was 
strictly  enforced  among  the  children  of  Israel,  and  its  violation  was 
attended  by  severe  penalties,  and  thus — mark  you,  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, were  they  measurably  protected  from  that  great  sin.  Finally 
the  children  of  Israel  were  brought  to  the  land  of  Canaan.  Palestine, 
the  land  that  was  given  by  promise  to  Abraham  and  his  seed,  was 
inhabited  by  six  or  seven  great  nations,  and  the  Lord  commanded  his 
people  to  go  in  and  drive  out  those  nations,  to  destroy  them  and  to 
take  possession  of  the  land.  This  is  what  he  said,  if  they  would  indeed 
obey  his  voice:  "I  will  be  an  enemy  unto  thine  enemies,"  I  will  be 
an  adversary  unto  thine  adversaries,  for  mine  Angel  shall  go  before 


182 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


thee,  and  bring  thee  in  unto  the  Amorites,  and  the  Hittites,  and  the 
Perizzites,  and  the  Canaanites,  the  Hivites,  and  the  Jebusites ;  and  1 
will  cut  them  off.  Thou  shalt  not  bow  down  to  their  gods,  nor 
serve  them,  nor  do  after  the;r  works ;  but  thou  shalt  utterly  overthrow 
them,  and  quite  break  down  their  images." 

It  may  be  said  by  some,  that  God  in  this  matter' was  cruel,  that 
he  was  unmerciful,  that  this  was  a  vengeful  thing  to  do,  but  you  must 
remember  that  the  people  in  Canaan  were  steeped  in  wickedness,  were 
guilty  of  every  species  of  crime,  were  engaged  in  idolatry,  and  were 
violators  of  the  moral  law.  Their  cup  of  iniquity  was  full,  they  were 
ripe  for  destruction,  and  destruction  came. 

And  the  children  of  Israel  went  into  the  Promised  Land  and  in 
those  early  years  they  were  prospered  and  strengthened  and  upheld  by 
the  power  of  their  Maker.  Oh,  what  a  blessed  people!  He  smiled 
upon  them  and  they  also  had  prophets  to  minister  to  them  in  the  things 
of  God.  But  in  later  years,  when  they  forsook  the  worship  of  God 
and  turned  to  idolatry  and  ceased  to  observe  the  moral  law,  great 
distress  and  trial  came  upon  them,  and  they  were  visited  by  great  de- 
struction. 

.MORAL  LAW   EMPHASIZED  IN  THE   MINISTRY  OF  JESUS 

In  the  meridian  of  time  John  the  Baptist  came  in  the  wilderness 
preaching  the  gospel,  the  gospel  of  repentance,  and  Jerusalem  and  all 
Judea  came  to  his  baptism  and  when  John  perceived  the  wickedness 
and  hypocrisy  of  the  Pharisees,  he  said  to  them :  "O  generation  of 
vipers,  who  hath  warned  you  to  flee  from  the  wrath  to  come?  "Bring 
forth  therefore  fruits  worthy  of  repentance." 

Jesus  came  later  preaching  the  gospel  and  counseled  the  people 
to  repent  and  receive  it.  It  seems  to  me  that  the  moral  law  was 
greatly  emphasized  in  the  incident  of  the  woman  who  was  taken  in 
transgression.  She  was  brought  to  Christ  by  the  Pharisees  who 
charged  her  with  the  crime  of  adultery,  and  they  stood  there  before 
him  impatiently.  They  were  urgent  for  his  condemnation  upon  the 
woman  that  they  might  take  her  out  and  stone  her  to  death.  Christ 
looked  upon  them  intently,  and  then  he  knelt  down  and  with  his 
finger  wrote  in  the  sand  then  stood  up  again.  The  Pharisees  were 
still  urgent  for  his  action,  but  he,  perceiving  the  wickedness  of  their 
hearts,  said:  "He  that  is  without  sin  let  him  cast  the  first  stone."  He 
again  knelt  and  wrote  in  the  sand,  and  then  he  stood  up  once  more 
and  looking  around  said  to  the  woman :  "Woman,  where  are  thine 
accusers  ?  Is*  there  no  man  to  condemn  thee  ?"  And  the  woman  said : 
"Lord  there  is  no  man  to  condemn  me."  Now,  you  remember  his 
sublime  answer,  brethren  and  sisters : 

"Neither  do  I  condemn  thee.  Go  thy  way  and  sin  no  more." 
But,  mark  this,  he  did  not  apologize  for  her  sin,  he  did  not  excuse  her, 
he  did  not  condone  the  sin,  but  said :  "Go  thy  way  and  sin  no  more." 
I  think  this  is  a  wonderful  example  of  God's  mercy  and  also  of  God's 
justice,  quite  beyond  us. 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


183 


PAUL  S  ANALYSIS 

Paul  the  Apostle  in  his  epistle  to  the  Corinthians  went  deeper  into 
the  matter  when  he  said :  "Know  ye  not  that  ye  are  the  temple  of 
God,  and  that  the  Spirit  of  God  dwelleth  in  you?  If  any  man  defile 
the  temple  of  God,  him  shall  God  destroy:  for  the  temple  of  God  is 
holy,  which  temple  ye  are." 

Oh,  how  sublime !  It  is  logical,  it  is  philosophical,  it  is  reasonable. 
We  are  the  children  of  God,  and  he  designates  his  children  as  temples, 
living  temples  of  God.  It  is  wonderful,  it  is  beautiful!  There  are 
temples  of  wood  and  stone,  but  these  are  living  temples. 

Paul's  interpretation  amplified  by  the  prophet  joseph  smith 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  of  the  children  of  Israel,  and 
the  great  moral  law  that  was  made  binding  upon  them  is  also  equally 
binding  upon  us.  It  has  been  renewed  to  us  in  our  day,  and  the  lan- 
guage of  Paul  has  been  amplified,  greatly  enlarged,  by  a  modern  rev- 
elation. You  will  find  it  in  Section  93,  Doc.  and  Cov.,  where  these 
wonderful  words  are  recorded :  "For  man  is  spirit.  The  elements 
are  eternal,  and  spirit  and  element,  inseparably  connected,  receiveth 
a  fulness  of  joy.  And  when  separated,  man  cannot  receive  a  fulness 
of  joy.  The  elements  are  the  tabernacle  of  God;  yea,  man  is  the 
tabernacle  of  God,  even  temples ;  and  whatsoever  temple  is  defiled, 
God  shall  destroy  that  temple." 

IF  MAN  IS  IMMORAL  HE  IS  WEAK  AS  WATER 

So  we  are  now  under  that  great  and  important  law.  It  is  vital 
to  our  welfare,  to  our  salvation.  Go  out  upon  the  street.  You  may 
see  a  man  standing  there.  He  is  wonderfully  well  developed,  strong 
physically,  strong'  mentally.  Why,  he  may  have  been  through  college, 
a  graduate.  Oh,  how  well  equipped  he  is  for  life !  But  I  tell  you, 
brethren  and  sisters,  if  that  man  is  immoral  he  is  as  weak  as  water. 
Another  man  who  is  famous  throughout  the  land  as  a  lawyer,  who 
can  command  his  thousands  and  thousands  of  dollars,  his  knowledge 
is  so  desirable.  But  I  tell  you  that  if  that  man  is  immoral  he  is  as 
weak  as  water.  And  still  another  man  may  have  studied  medicine  and 
attained  to  great  eminence.  You  may  envy  him.  I  tell  you  if  he  is 
immoral  he  is  as  weak  as  water.  And  take  a  young  woman  who  has 
had  every  advantage  of  education  and  culture.  She  is  accomplished, 
she  can  play  the  piano  most  beautifully,  she  may  be  a  great  writer,  but 
I  Tell  you,  if  that  young  woman  is  immoral  she  is  as  weak  as  water; 
because,  remember,  that  the  Spirit  of  God  will  not  dwell  in  unholy 
temples.  If  I  can  leave  that  impression  with  you  this  afternoon,  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  oh,  how  thankful  I  shall  be. 

I  rejoice  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  know  it  is  true.  I  do 
know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  his 
prophet,  and  that  he  stands  at  the  head  of  this  last  dispensation.  He 
was  indeed  a  wonderful  man,  and,  I  apprehend,  was  a  great  spirit 


184 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


in  the  spirit  world  before  he  came  to  this  earth.  I  rejoice  in  this 
testimony,  and  I  bear  it  to  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  trio,  "Lift  Thine  Eyes,"'  was  sung  by  Lola  Leonard,  Louise 
Watson,  and  Edna  Gothberg. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

There  has  never  been,  within  my  recollection,  anything  to  com- 
pare with  the  wonderful  outpouring  of  people,  to  our  semi-annual 
conferences,  such  as  we  have  had  during  the  past  three  days. 

CONSIDERING  A  FOUR-DAYS  CONFERENCE 

I  think  that,  perhaps,  in  the  future  it  may  be  well— and  we  will 
seriously  consider  it — to  have  four  days  of  conference.  Several  of  our 
speakers  limited  themselves  to  sixteen,  seventeen,  and  eighteen  min- 
utes, and,  as  you  know,  only  two  of  the  seven  presidents  of  seventies 
have  had  the  opportunity  of  addressing  the  vast  congregations  that 
have  appeared  in  this  building,  and  only  one  of  the  presiding  bishopric. 
The  suggestion  made  fifty-five  years  ago  and  carried  by  a  vote  of 
the  people,  that  they  continue  the  Conference  for  another  day,  if  car- 
ried out  at  our  next  meeting,  in  six  months  from  now,  would,  in  all 
probability,  give  each  of  the  brethren  of  the  general  authorities,  and 
some  of  our  mission  presidents,  an  opportunity  to  express  themselves 
without  feeling  very  much  limited  for  time.  I  am  not  sure  but  that 
the  addresses  of  the  three  or  four  of  our  brethren,  including  the  ad- 
dresses of  the  presidency,  that  were  beyond  the  short  limit  of  fifteen 
to  twenty  odd  minutes,  gave  the  brethren  who  delivered  them  greater 
liberty  of  utterance,  and  a  freer  flow  of  the  Spirit,  than  was  enjoyed 
by  those  I  had  to  request  to  make  their  addresses  short.  It  is  only  fair 
to  say  that  a  great  many  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  expressed  to 
me,  time  and  time  again,  the  idea  that  if  we  cannot  all  find  the  time 
to  bear  our  testimonies  and  deliver  our  messages  at  a  general  confer- 
ence, it  would  be  better  to  only  have  a  number  of  us  talk  at  one  of  the 
conferences,  and  the  balance  at  the  next  one.  But,  I  have  felt  in  my 
heart  an  anxiety  that  each  of  those  who  are  presiding  over  our  mis- 
sions throughout  the  United  States,  and  each  of  the  general  author- 
ities of  the  Church  whom  you  have  voted  to  sustain  here  this  day — 
the  twenty-six  members  that  stand  as  the  presiding  authority  in  the 
Priesthood — -should  lift  up  their  voices  in  each  and  all  of  our  con- 
ferences and  bear  witness  of  the  goodness  of  God  to  them.  For  that 
reason  we  have  always  had  them  speak,  and  occasionally  we  have  heard 
from  some  others  in  addition.  I  have  heard  a  great  many  people  say 
that  one  cannot  very  well  deliver  much  of  a  sermon  in  ten  minutes, 
but  some  of  the  very  choicest  of  all  the  choice  sermons  that  I  have 
ever  heard  in  this  building,  have  been  delivered  in  five  and  ten  min- 
utes. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


185 


EXPRESSED  THANKS  TO  ALL  WHO  HAVE  TAKEN  PART 

■  When  I  think  of  the  scores  and  scores  of  conferences  I  have 
attended  in  October,  through  driving  storms  and  snow,  to  say  noth- 
ing about  the  cold  and  the  blizzardy  weather  we  have  had,  I  have  re- 
joiced and  been  thankful  to  the  Lord  for  the  very  wonderful  and 
splendid  weather  we  have  enjoyed  during  this  conference.  I  extend 
to  the  Saints  my  thanks  and  my  blessing  for  the  wonderful  outpouring 
of  the  people  at  these  conference  meetings.  I  am  grateful  to  our 
choir  and  to  all  who  have  taken  part  in  rendering  to  us  the  very 
splendid  music  that  we  have  enjoyed  during  our  conference.  I  am 
thankful  to  each  and  all  of  the  speakers  who  have  spoken  here  in 
this  building,  and  to  those  who  have  spoken  in  the  overflow  meetings. 
I  feel  that  the  Lord  has  abundantly  blessed  us,  and  poured  out  his 
spirit  upon  us,  and  that  we  will  go  from  this  meeting  refreshed  in 
spirit,  renewed  in  our  determinations  to  serve  him  and  keep  his  com- 
mandments, and  to  proclaim  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  by 
the  uprightness,  the  honesty,  the  integrity  and  the  devotion  of  our 
lives. 

THEY  ARE  THE  GREATEST  SPEAKERS  WHO  LIVE  THE  GOSPEL 

The  Latter-day  Saints,  as  a  people,  have  the  greatest  number  of 
preachers  in  all  the  world,  for  the  reason  that  nearly  every  lay  member 
has  been  on  one  or  more  missions  of  from  two  to  five  years,  proclaim- 
ing the  gospel,  without  money  and  without  price.  We  are  a  nation — 
small  nation,  so  to  speak — of  preachers,  but  the  greatest  and  the  most 
wonderful  preacher  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  is  the  man  or  the 
woman  who  lives  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  "Show  me  thy 
faith  by  thy  works"  is  the  thing  that  counts.  James  said  that  he 
would  show  his  faith  by  his  works,  and  that  faith  without  works  is 
dead.  It  is  like  the  body  without  the  spirit,  and  you  know  that  needs 
to  be  buried  very  soon  after  the  spirit  departs,  or  it  becomes  obnoxious. 
It  is  by  our  works,  our  diligence,  our  faithfulness,  our  energy,  that 
we  can  preach  this  gospel,  and  the  people  of  the  world  are  beginning 
to  recognize,  to  know  and  to  comprehend  the  fact  that  the  fruits  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  taught  by  the  Latter-day  Sains,  are  good 
fruits.  To  have  the  lowest  death  rate,  to  have  the  highest  birth  rate, 
to  have  Utah  tie — (nearly  twenty  years  ago,  when  I  was  in  England, 
presiding  over  the  European  Mission)  for  second  place  among  the 
states  of  America,  for  literacy — only  one  state  ahead  of  us — show  that 
we  are  making  a  record  that  we  can  well  be  proud  of.  I  have  said 
to  people,  in  my  travels  as  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  dur- 
ing the  past  forty  years,  that  all  we  ask  any  man  or  of  any  woman,  at 
home  or  abroad,  that  they  do  for  the  Latter-day  Saints,  is  to  judge 
them  by  their  fruits.  The  one  great  standard  laid  down  by  the  Savior 
of  the  world  was,  "By  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them."  For  happi- 
ness in  their  homes,  for  contentment,  prosperity,  business  integrity, 
sobriety,  for  observance  of  the  laws  of  God  and  of  man,  I  am  at  the 


186 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


defiance  of  the  world  to  find  any  other  people  superior  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  I  am  not  speaking  now  of  "Mormons"  who  do  not  keep 
the  commandments  of  God. 

THE  STANDARDS  BY  WHICH  WE  WISH  TO  BE  JUDGED 

No  true  Americans  desire  to  be  judged  by  the  Benedict  Arnolds 
of  our  country,  but  they  desire  to  be  judged  by  men  like  George  Wash- 
ington and  Abraham  Lincoln  and  others  who  have  been  devoted  to  the 
principles  upon  which  this  country  stands  and  to  the  Constitution  of 
our  country,  who  respect  that  Constitution,  who  stand  for  the  obey- 
ing of  the  laws  of  the  country,  and  who  have  given  their  lives,  or 
offered  their  lives,  for  the  country.  Those  are  the  people  whose  lives 
we  desire  shall  be  the  standard  by  which  the  United  States  of  America 
shall  be  judged — not  by  the  law-breakers.  We  desire  that  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  shall  be  judged  by  those  who  keep  the  commandments 
of  the  Lord,  who  obey  the  word  of  wisdom,  who  obey  the  command- 
ment to  give  to  the  Lord  one-tenth  of  all  that  shall  come  into  their 
hands,  who  attend  to  their  family  and  their  secret  prayers,  who  are 
ready  and  willing  to  go,  without  money  and  without  price,  to  the  utter- 
most ends  of  the  earth  to  proclaim  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  who  do  it  under  the  inspiration  of  the' Spirit  of  the  living  God. 

A  PROMINENT  EXAMPLE 

We  desire  to  be  judged  by  men,  for  instance,  like  Col.  R.  M. 
Bryce  Thomas,  who  came  to  Salt  Lake  City  about  thirty  years  ago,  a 
retired  Colonel  in  the  British  Army.  His  wife  was  taken  sick  and 
they  were  stopping  in  what  was  then  known  as  the  Templeton  hotel, 
and,  across  the  road  from  that  hotel  was  the  headquarters,  then,  of  the 
Deseret  News.  Over  the  front  door  was  a  sign  "  'Mormon'  publica- 
tions for  sale."  Day  after  day  he  read  this  sign,  until  it  got  on  his 
nerves,  so  he  went  and  bought  a  lot  of  "Mormon"  publications,  and  he 
read  and  studied  them.  When  he  returned  to  London,  he  attended  our 
meetings,  and  later  joined  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  He  made  twoi  trips  all  the  way  from  London  to  Salt  Lake,  to 
perform  ordinances  for  his  dead  ancestors,  in  the  temple  of  the  living 
God,  on  this  block.  He  wrote  a  long  letter — I  imagine  fully  a  hun- 
dred, if  not  more,  pages,  telling  his  friends  why  he  had  joined  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  entitled  My  Reasons  for  Leaving  the 
Church  of  England  and  Joining  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  This  was  written  for  the  express  purpose  of  enlightening 
his  friends.  He  received  so  many  letters  asking  him  why  he  had 
joined  this  unpopular  people,  that  it  kept  him  constantly  busy  and  so  he 
decided  to  publish  his  reasons,  with  no  idea  that  his  pamphlet,  or  the 
letter  that  he  sent  to  Liverpool  to  have  published  for  his  benefit,  would 
be  used  as  a  tract.    We  ask  to  be  judged  by  men  like  Colonel  Thomas. 

It  has  been  said,  and  I  believe  truthfully,  that  about  the  tenderest 
part  of  the  human  anatomy,  of  the  male  variety  of  the  species,  is  the 
pocket,  and  Colonel  Thomas,  from  the  day  that  he  was  baptized  sends 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  187 

! 

once  a  month  to  the  London  office  a  fast-day  offering;  once  a  month 
a  check  comes  for  one-tenth  of  his  compensation  as  a  retired  Colonel 
in  the  British  army. 

THE  JOY  OF  CONVERTING  SOULS  AND  PROCLAIMING  THE  GOSPEL  ' 

We  ask  to  be  judged  by  those  men  who  are  giving  their  all — 
their  talents  and  their  lives — and  those  women  who  are  doing  the  same, 
for  the  advancement  of  God's  kingdom,  by  those  who  feel  a  desire  in 
their  hearts  to  proclaim  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  feel  exactly 
as  did  Alma  of  old,  when  he  said  (Alma  29)  : 

"O  that  I  were  an  angel,  and  could  have  the  wish  of  mine  heart,  that 
I  might  go  forth  and  speak  with  the  trump  of  God,  with  a  voice  to  shake 
the  earth,  and  cry  repentance  unto  every  people ! 

Yea,  I  would  declare  unto  every  soul,  as  with  the  voice  of  thunder, 
repentance  and  the  plan  of  redemption,  that  they  should  repent  and  come 
unto  our  God,  that  there  might  not  be  more  sorrow  upon  all  the  face  of 
the  earth. 

"But  behold,  I  am  a  man,  and  do  sin  in  my  wish;  for  I  ought  to  be  con- 
tent with  the  things  which  the  Lord  hath  allotted  unto  me. 

"I  ought  not  to  harrow  up  in  my  desires,  the  firm  decree  of  a  just  God, 
for  I  know  that  he  granteth  unto  men  according  to  their  desire,  whether 
it  be  unto  death  or  unto  life;  yea,  I  know  that  he  allotteth  unto  men,  ac- 
cording to  their  wills,  whether  they  be  unto  salvation  or  unto  destruction. 

"Yea,  and  I  know  that  good  and  evil  have  come  before  all  men ;  or  he  that 
knoweth  not  good  from  evil  is  blameless;  but  he  that  knoweth  good  and 
evil,  to  him  it  is  given  according  to  his  desires;  whether  he  desireth  good 
or  evil,  life  or  death,  joy  or  remorse  of  conscience. 

"Now,  seeing  that  I  know  these  things,  why  should  I  desire  more  than 
to  perform  the  work  to  which  I  have  been  called? 

"Why  should  I  desire  that  I  were  an  angel,  that  I  could  speak  unto  all 
the  ends  of  the  earth? 

"For  behold,  the  Lord  doth  grant  unto  all  nations,  of  their  own  nation 
and  tongue,  to  teach  his  word,  yea,  in  wisdom,  all  that  he  seeth  fit  that 
they  should  have;  therefore  we  see  that  the  Lord  doth  counsel  in  wisdom, 
according  to  that  which  is  just  and  true. 

"I  know  that  which  the  Lord  hath  commanded  me,  and  T  glory  in  it. 
I  do  not  gloryi  of  myself,  but  I  glory  in  that  which  the  Lord  hath  com- 
manded niie;  yea,  and  this  is  my  glory,  that  perhaps  I  may  be  an  instrument 
in  the  hands  of  God  to  bring  some  soul  to  repentance;  and  this  is  my 
joy. 

"And  behold,  when  I  see  many  of  my  brethren  truly  penitent,  and 
coming  to  the  Lord  their  God,  then  is  my  soul  filled  with  joy;  then  do  I 
remember  what  the  Lord  has  done  for  me,  yea,  even  that  he  hath  heard 
my  prayer;  yea,  then  do  I  remember  his  merciful  arm  which  he  extended 
towards  me. 

"Yea,  and  I  also  remember  the  captivity  of  my  fathers;  for  I  surely  do 
know  that  the  Lord  did  deliver  them  out  of  bondage,  and  by  this  did  estab- 
lish his  church;  yea,  the  Lord  God,  the  God  of  Abraham,  the  God  of  Isaac,, 
and  the  God  of  Jacob,  did  deliver  them  out  of  bondage. 

"Yea,  I  have  always  remembered  the  captivity  of  my  fathers;  and 
that  same  God  who  delivered  them  out  of  the  hands  of  the  Egyptians  did 
deliver  them  out  of  bondage. 

"Yea,  and  that  same  God  did  establish  his  church  among  them;  yea  and 
that  same  God  hath  called  me  by  a  holy  calling,  to  preach  the  word  unto 
this  people  and  hath  given  me.  much  success,  in  the  which  my  joy  is  full." 

There  is  no  living  soul  in  all  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 


188 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


day  Saints,  who  has  gone  forth  to  proclaim  this  gospel,  from  the  mid- 
night sun  country  of  Scandinavia,  where  the  mother  of  Reed  Smoot 
heard  the  gospel,  down;  to  South  Africa;  from  Canada  to  South 
America,  but  who  like  Alma  of  old  has  had  that  same  joy  and  that 
same  happiness,  when  he  or  she  has  been  an  instrument  in  the  hands 
of  God  of  bringing  some  soul  to  a  knowledge  of  the  divinity  of  the  work 
in  which  you  and  I  are  engaged. 

"But  I  do  not  joy  in  my  own  success  alone,  but  my  joy  is  more  full 
because  of  the  success  of  my  brethren,  who  have  been  up  to  the  land  of 
Nephi. 

"Behold,  they  have  labored  exceedingly,  and  have  brought  forth  much 
fruit;  and  how  great  shall  be  their  reward! 

"Now,  when  i  think  of  the  success  of  these  my  brethren  my  soul  is 
carried  away,  even  to  the  separation  of  it  from  the  body,  as  it  were,  so 
great  is  my  joy. 

"And  now  may  God  grant  unto  these,  my  brethren,  that  they  may  sit 
dbwn  in  the  kingdom  of  God;  yea,  and  also  all  those  who  are  the  fruit  of 
their  labors  that  they  may  go  no  more  out,  but  that  they,  may  praise  him 
for  ever.  And  may  God  grant  that  it  may  be  done  according  to  my  words, 
even  aa  I  have  spoken.  Amen." 

1  know  of  no  joy  on  earth  that  can  compare  with  that  which 
comes  to  the  heart  of  the  man  who  is  an  instrument  in  the  hands  of 
God  of  saving  some  soul  and  turning  it  from  that  broad  way  that 
leadeth  to  destruction,  into  that  straight  and  narrow  path  that  leadeth 
to  life  eternal. 

AN  ILLUSTRATION  IN  TLIE  CONVERSION  OF  THE  SPEAKER'S  BROTHER 

As  I  stand  here  today,  I  remember  what  to  me  was  the  greatest 
of  all  the  great  incidents  in  my  life,  in  this  tabernacle.  I  saw  for  the 
first  time,  in  the  audience,  my  brother  who  had  been  careless,  indif- 
ferent and  wayward,  who  had  evinced  no  interest  in  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and,  as  I  saw  him  for  the  first  time  in  this  building,  and 
as  I  realized  that  he  was  seeking  God  for  light  and  knowledge  re- 
garding the  divinity  of  this  work,  I  bowed  my  head  and  I  prayed  God 
that  if  I  were  requested  to  address  the  audience,  that  the  Lord  would 
inspire  me  by  the  revelations  of  his  Spirit,  by  that  Holy  Spirit  in  whom 
every  true  Latter-day  Saint  believes,  that  my  brother  would  have  to 
acknowledge  to  me  that  I  had  spoken  beyond  my  natural  ability,  that 
I  had  been  inspired  of  the  Lord.  I  realized  that  if  he  made  that  con- 
fession, then  1  should  be  able  to  point  out  to  him  that  God  had  given 
him  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  work.  Brother  Milton  Ben- 
nion  was  sitting  on  the  stand  that  day,  and  he  had  been  asked  to  ad- 
dress the  congregation.  President  Angus  M.  Cannon  came  to  me  and 
said,  "Before  you  entered  the  building,  Brother  Grant,  I  had  invited 
Brother  Milton  Bennion  to  speak,  but  he  can  come  some  other  day." 

I  said,  "Let  him  speak."  Brother  Cannon  said,  "Well,  I  will  ask 
him  to  speak  briefly,  and  you  will  please  follow  him." 

Brother  Bennion  told  of  his  visit  around  the  world;  among  other 
things,  of  visiting  the  sepulchre  of  Jesus. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


189 


I  took  out  of  my  pocket  a  book  that  I  always  carried,  called  a 
Ready  Reference,  and  I  laid  it  down  on  the  stand  in  front  of  me, 
when  I  stood  up  to  speak.  It  was  opened  at  the  passages  that  tell  of 
the  vicarious  work  for  the  dead,  of  the  announcement  that  Jesus  went 
and  preached  to  the  spirits  in  prison,  and  proclaimed  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  to  them.  I  intended  to  read  about  the  baptism  for  the 
dead,  and  I  intended  to  preach  upon  the  fact  that  the  Savior  of  the 
world  had  not  only  brought  the  gospel  to  every  soul  upon  the  earth, 
but  that  it  reached  back  to  all  those  who  had  died  without  a  knowledge 
of  it,  or  in  their  sins,  that  they  would  have  the  privilege  of  hearing  it ; 
that,  as  I  understood  and  had  read  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
Jesus  came  into  the  world  to  be  crucified  for  the  world  and  to  die  for 
the  sins  of  the  world  and  that  he  saved  all  except  only  those  who 
denied  the  Son  after  the  Father  had  revealed  him — those  who>  had 
lived  and  those  who  had  died. 

I  remember  standing  here  feeling  that  that  was  perhaps  the 
greatest  of  all  the  great  themes  that  we  as  Latter-day  Saints  had  to 
proclaim  to  the  world.  I  laid  the  book  down,  opened  at  that  page;  I 
prayed  for  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  and  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  I  never  thought  of  the  book  from  that  minute  until  I 
sat  down,  at  the  end  of  a  thirty-minute  address.  I  closed  my  remarks 
at  12  minutes  after  3  o'clock,  expecting  that  President  George  Q. 
Cannon  would  follow  me.  Brother  Angus  came  to  the  upper  stand, 
and  said,  "George,  please  occupy  the  balance  of  the  time." 

He  said,  "No,  I  do  not  wish  to  speak,"  but  Brother  Angus  re- 
fused to  take  "No"  for  an  answer. 

Brother  Cannon  said,  finally:  "Alright,  go  take  your  seat,  and 
I  will  say  something,"  and  he  arose  and  said  in  substance:  "There 
are  times  when  the  Lord  Almighty  inspires  some  speaker  by  the  rev- 
elations of  his  Spirit,  and  he  is  so  abundantly  blessed  by  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  living  God  that  it  is  a  mistake  for  anybody  else  to  speak 
following  him,  and  one  of  those  occasions  has  been  today,  and  I  de- 
sire that  this  meeting  be  dismissed  without  further  remarks,"  and  he 
sat  down. 

.  "  I  devoted  the  thirty  minutes  of  my,  speech  almost  exclusively  to  a 
testimony  of  my  knowledge  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and 
to  the  wonderful  and  marvelous  labors  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
and  bearing  witness  to  the  knowledge  God  had  given  me  that  Joseph 
was  in  very  deed  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  living  God. 

The  next  morning  my  brother  came  into  my  office  and  said, 
"Heber,  I  was  at  meeting  yesterday  and  heard  you  preach." 

I  said,  "The  first  time  you  ever  heard  your  brother  preach,  I 
guess?" 

"Oh,  no,"  he  said,  "I  have  heard  you  lots  of  times." 
I  said,  "I  never  saw  you  in  meeting  before." 
"No,"  he  said,  "I  generally  come  in  late  and  go  into  the  gallery. 
I  often  go  out  before  the  meeting  is  over.    But  you  never  spoke  as 


190 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


you  did  yesterday.  You  spoke  beyond  your  natural  ability.  You  were 
inspired  of  the  Lord."  The  identical  words  I  had  uttered  the  day 
before,  in  my  prayer  to  the  Lord. 

When  I  heard  George  Q.  Cannon,  after  I  sat  down,  and  before 
his  brother  spoke  to  him,  say  to  himself,  "Thank  God  for  the  power 
of  that  testimony,"  the  tears  gushed  from  my  eyes  like  rain  and  I 
rested  my  elbows  on  my  knees  and  put  my  hands  over  my  face,  so  that 
the  people  by  me  would  not  see  that  I  was  weeping  like  a  child.  I 
knew  when  I  heard  those  words  of  George  Q.  Cannon,  that  God  had 
heard  and  answered  my  prayer.  I  knew  that  my  brother's  heart  was 
touched,  and  the  next  day  when  he  came  and  repeated  my  words,  I 
said  to  him,  "Are  you  still  praying  for  a  testimony  of  the  gospel'" 

He  said,  "Yes,  and  I  am  going  nearly,  wild." 

I  asked,  "What  did  I  preach  about  yesterday?" 

He  replied,  "You  know  what  you  preached  about." 

I  said,  "Well,  you  tell  me." 

"You  preached  upon  the  divine  mission  of  the  Lroohet  Joseph 
Smith." 

I  answered,  "And  I  was  inspired  beyond  my  natural  ability;  and 
I  never  spoke  before — at  any  time  you  have  heard  me,  as  I  spoke 
yesterday.  Do  you  expect  the  Lord  to  get  a  club  and  knock  you  down  ? 
What  more  testimony  do  you  want  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  than 
that  a  man  speaks  beyond  his  natural  ability  and  under  the  inspiration 
of  God,  when  he  testifies  of  the  divine  mission  of  the  prophet  Joseph  ?" 
The  next  Sabbath  he  applied  to  me  for  baptism. 

If  I  were  offered  today,  all  the  wealth  of  all  the  world,  and  had 
my  brother  in  the  condition  he  was  in — without  a  knowledge  of  the 
divinity  of  this  work,  I  know,  as  I  know  that  I  live,  it  would  not  be 
the  slightest  temptation  to  me. 

I  do  rejoice  beyond  all  the  power  with  which  God  has  endowed 
me,  in  the  divinity  of  this  work  in  which  we  are  engaged,  and  in  the 
joy  and  the  happiness  that  it  brings  to  everyone  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  who  keeps  the  commandments  of  God. 

SARCASTIC  ARGUMENTS  AGAINST  PROHIBITION 

I  had  here  a  lot  of  things  I  was  going  to  read,  and  I  have  for- 
gotten about  all  of  them  but  one.  There  is  one  thing  I  want  to  read 
and  I  want  to  call  attention  to  the  hypocrisy  of  a  certain  article  in 
Judge,  now  combined  with  Leslie's  Weekly.  It  is  a  contemptible  and 
sarcastic  sample,  as  we  find  here  in  an  editorial  in  the  Improvement 
Era,  which  says: 

"As  a  sample  of  the  sarcastic  and  contemptible  argument  made  by 
the  anti-prohibitionists,  Judge,  which  is  a  combination  of  the  former 
Leslie's  Weekly  and  the  comic  paper,  Judge,  has  this  editorial  in  a 
recent  number : 

"light  wines  and  beer 
"Volstead  Prohibition  has 
■ — smothered  us  in  prosperity, 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


191 


— solved  our  labor  problems. 

— diminished  crimes  of  violence. 

— improved  our  morals. 

• — cut  down  our  divorce  rate. 

— produced  greater  respect  for  the  law 

— discouraged  corruption. 

— improved  our  foreign  relations. 

— lessened  the  privileges  of  wealth. 

— increased  our  patriotism. 

— made  us  happier. 

"This  list  contains  eleven  lies.  To  make  it  an  even  dozen,  we'll  add  that 
Judge  is  a  prohibitionist." 

I  lack  language  to  express  my  contempt  for  any  such  an  editorial 
as  that  in  Judge,  therefore  I  will  not  attempt  to  do  it.  The  Lord  has 
not  given  me  the  power. 

BABSON  ON  PROHIBITION 

I  want  to  read  something  from  the  greatest  statistician  in  America 
— Mr.  Babson: 

"Another  optimistic  factor  in  our  present  business  situation  is  national 
prohibition." 

Mr.  Babson,  I  guess,  is  paid  more  money  for  what  he  writes 
than  any  other  living  man  in  the  United  States,  even,  I  venture  the 
assertion,  about  ten  times  as  much  as  Judge  with  all  the  whisky  money 
that  they  get  for  writing  such  stuff  as  I  have  read  from  Judge  for  you. 

"Before  the  Prohibition  Act  was  passed,  $3,000,000,000  were  spent  an- 
nually for  drink." 

What  is  $3,000,000,000?  Three  dollars  a  minute  for  every  minute 
until  now,  since  the  birth  of  the  Savior  of  the  world — three  dollars  a 
minute — three  billion  dollars,  and  no  human  being  is  benefited  one 
particle  by  that  $3,000,000,000  of  expenditure,  and  hundreds  and  thou- 
sands and  tens  of  thousands  are  ruined  physically,  morally  and  every 
other  way,  and  many  hundreds  commit  murder  because  of  the  liquor 
that  they  have. 

"Now,  this  $3,000',0O0,00O  that  was  formerly  spent  for  drink,  goes  to  the 
buying  of  merchandise,  the  building  of  homes,  the  furnishing  of  homes  and 
the  starting  of  savings  accounts.  No  matter  what  interpretation  may  be 
put  on  the  law  or  what  new  legislation  may  be  enacted,  of  this  we  are 
quite  certain — that  same  $3,000,000,000  which  formerly  went  to  drink  will 
hereafter  be  used  for  stimulating  the  regular  channels  of  business.  It  will 
be  used  to  buy  merchandise,  start  savings  accounts  and  do  those  things 
which  tend  to  make  people  happy  and  prosperous." 

It  will  increase  and  has  increased,  in  every  land  and  in  every 
clime,  by  a  hundred  to  two  or  three  hundred  per  cent,  the  amount  of 
milk  consumed,  and  milk  is  the  best  food  that  human  beings  can  have. 

GETTING  THE  TOWEL  DRY  IN  BUSINESS 

"As  a  successful  merchant  needs  delivery  wagons,  so  a  successful  na- 
tion needs  a  good  merchant  marine.  Thanks  to  the  war,  the  United  States 
has  such  today. 


192 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"Finally,  w,e  are  today  citizens  of  the  richest  country  in  the  world. 
Where  formerly  we  were  a  country  owing  the  other  nations  of  the  world, 
we  are  today  a  credit  country,  with  the  rest  of  the  world  owing  us.  For 
this  and  other  reasons,  this  country,  fundamentally,  is  all  right.  Even  at 
the  present  time,  this  medial  line  which  represents  fundamental  conditions, 
is  slowly  but  constantly  going  upward. 

"During  1917-19,  however,  [he  is  referring  to  the  towel  as  representing 
business]  the  towel  became  saturated  with  water.  This  is  just  what  hap- 
pened to  business.  The  drops  of  water  that  fall  off  the  towel  when  lifted 
out  of  the  water  may  be  indicative  of  orders  for  goods  which  fall  to  us 
during  such  inflated  times.  The  saturated  towel  represents  business  when 
we  were  at  the  highest  point  in  January,  1920,  thoroughly  saturated  with 
water.  Such  saturation  must  be  taken  out.  We  must  always  get  the 
towel  dry  again." 

ADVICE  TO  THE  SAINTS  TO  GET  OUT  OF  DEBT 

I  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints :  Get  the  water  out  of  your  business 
at  the  earliest  possible  date ;  get  down  to  bed-rock.  Remember  the  won- 
derful teachings  of  Joseph  F.  Smith  from  this  stand,  years  ago,  that 
would  have  saved  hundreds  and  thousands  of  Latter-day  Saints  from 
ruin  financially  if  they  had  listened  to  it.  He  said,  "Get  out  of  debt 
and  keep  out  of  debt."  Cattle  and  sheep  men,  merchants,  farmers  and 
everybody,  in  the  days  of  the  boom,  who  got  more  land,  more  sheep, 
more  cattle,  more  everything,  by  running  into  debt,  would  thank  the 
Lord  Almighty  if  they  had  only  listened  to  President  Joseph  F.  Smith. 

THE  SECRET  OF  "MAKING  GOOD" 

I  want  to  read  a  little  story.  I  do  not  think  it  will  take  me  over 
five  minutes,  and  then  I  am  through.  I  read  so  much  that  I  make 
people  tired,  but  I  do  it  in  the  hope  they  will  read  it  again  after  it  is 
published : 

"There  were  two  boys  named  Brown;  they  were  brothers.  The  mother 
had  died  with  tuberculosis  when  the  children  were  young.  The  father  was 
a  sea  captain,  one  of  the  best  of  the  town,  but  he  was  lost  when  these  boys 
were  fourteen  and  sixteen  years  of  age,  respectively.  They,  however,  lived 
together  in  their  three  rooms,  did  thir  own  cooking  and  housework,  and 
went  to  school.  The  people  called  them  'hatchet  and  handle'  because  they 
were  always  together.  The  older  boy,  Jimmie,  finally  went  into  a  store, 
but  the  younger  boy  got  that  longing  for  the  sea  which  only  those  brought 
up  near  the  ocean  can  appreciate,  and  when  sixteen  j-ears  old  he  w.ent  out 
'on  the  banks'  for  a  fishing  trip. 

"The  boy  had  been  away  only  two  weeks,  when  to  that  New  England 
town  came  word  that  the  vessel  with  all  hands  had  gone  down.  The 
disaster  was,  of  course,  a  great  blow  to  the  older  brother,  Jimmie — a  ter- 
rible blow.  It  occurred  in  February  or  March.  The  spring  came  on;  the 
birds  returned.  The  summer  followed;  and  again  the  trees  changed  their 
color  in  the  autumn.  Still  Jimmie  was  very  sad.  In  November  a  rumor 
came  through  the  town  that  a  great  four-master  schooner  had  gone  on 
the  rocks  near  the  Point.  The  boys  of  the  town,  as  always,  went  with  the 
crowd  to  the  Po:',nt  to  see  the  wreck.  When  they  reached  the  shore,  the 
life  boat  had  alreadv  gone  out." 

"THE  SPIRIT  WHICH  MAKES  GOOD." 

And  I  want  every  Latter-day  Saint  to  make  good. 
"It  was  a  wicked  afternoon;  that  life  boat  would  rise  to  the  top  of 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


193 


the  waves  and  then  go  completely  out  of  sight.  Every  one  held  his  breath 
until  it  would  come  in  sight  again.  Finally,  the  boat  reached  the  ship,  took 
off  the  crew,  and  came  back  to  shore.  As  soon  as  it  landed',  the  Life 
Savings  men  and  the  shipwrecked  crew  came  stumbling  out,  falling  ex- 
hausted on  the  beach.  They  were  taken  to  a  fire  which  had  been  built  of 
driftwood,  were  given  hot  food  and  rubbed.  They  were  gradually  recover- 
ing when  a  rumor  ran  about  the  crowd  that  a  chap,  sick  and  helpless,  had 
been  left  aboard1  the  ship;  that  because  of  his  weak  condition  they  could 
not  get  him  into  the  life  boat,  since  the  waves  were  too  severe,  the  sea 
running  too  high.  Well,  that  didn't  go  with  the  people  of  that  New  Eng- 
land town  and  they  urged  the  life  boat  crew  to  go  back  and  save  the  other 
man.  The  crew  replied :  'No,  we  cannot.  It  is  too  much  to  attempt  again 
in  these  waves  this  afternoon.' 

"Then  to  the  surprise  of  every  one,  little  Jimmie  Brown  jumped  up  on 
a  rock  and  shouted:  'I  have  nothing  to  live  for.  I  have  lost  my  brother. 
Let  me  go  and  I  want  some  boys  to  go  with  me.'  So  the  boys  formed  a 
volunteer  crew,  went  out  to  the  ship,  and  brought  the  other  chap  ashore. 
They  also  fell  exhausted  on  the  beach  on  their  return.  But  they  were 
rubbed  and  warmed;  while  the  unconscious  lad  was  taken  to  another  fire 
to  be  nursed  by  the  good  women  living  near  by.  Finally,  the  unconscious 
one  smiled  and  opened  his  eyes.  Every  one  was  happy.  Gradually,  one 
by  one,  the  volunteer  boy  crew  came  up  to  the  fire  to  look  at  this  chap 
they  had  saved.  Finally  Jimmie  Brown  came  and  looked.  Lo  and  behold, 
it  was  his  younger  brother!  The  crew  of  the  fishing  schooner  had  all  been 
lost  excepting  this  young  Brown.  He  had  been  picked  up  by  the  four- 
master  on  its  way  to  Manila,  which,  on  its  homeward  voyage,  was  wrecked 
on  the  New  England  coast. 

"Young  men  and  women  who  read  this  book:  Remember  Jimmie  Brown. 
Forget  yourselves.  Think  of  the  other  fellow.  Become  interested  in  doing 
what  is  right;  in  standing  for  industry,  integrity,  service.  If  you  do,  you 
(like  Jimmie  Brown)  will  find  what  is  dearest  to  your  hearts,  namely, 
PROSPERITY.  The  secret  of  making  good  is  being  good  and  doing 
good." 

No  other  people  upon  all  the  face  of  the  earth  have  done  as 
much  good,  have  spent  as  much  time/  have  spent  as  much  money  in 
proclaiming  the  gospel  and  in  living  the  gospel,  by  paying  their 
tithes  and  their  offerings  and  doing  the  things  that  God  has  com- 
manded, as  have  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

God  bless  you  all.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "Then  shall  your  light  break  forth." 
Benediction  was  pronounced  by  President  Charles  W.  Penrose. 

The  Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 

Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund,  assisted  by  B.  Cecil  Gates,  con- 
ducted the  singing  in  the  Tabernacle.  Professor  J.  J.  McClellan 
played  the  accompaniments,  interludes,  etc.  on  the  great  organ,  as- 
sisted by  Professors  E.  P.  Kimball  and  Tracy  Y.  Cannon. 

Stenographic  reports  of  the  discourses  were  made  in  the  Taber- 
nacle by  Franklin  B.  Otterstrom,  assisted  by  Joseph  Anderson;  and 
in  the  Assembly  Hall,  by  Frederick  E.  Barker ;  and  at  the  Bureau  of 
Information,  by  Frederick  G.  Barker.: 

Edward  H.  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 

Authorities,  Present      1 

Authorities  Sustained    178 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J  52 

Anxious  for  Rapid  Growth  and  Steady  Progress,  52 — Our  mis- 
sion to  Individuals  and  to  Nations,  52 — The  Latter-day  Saints  a 
Peculiar  People,  S3 — The  Saints  Must  be  Materially  as  well  as 
Spiritually  Strong,  54 — Faith  and  Works  Required,  54 — The  Key 
to  Our  Line  of  Conduct,  55— What  Brings  Success?  56 — Take 
Counsel  Together,  ,56 — Consult  the  Lord  and  His  Priesthood 
About  It,  57 — Ai  Recent  Valuable  Example,  58 — Hlow  We  May 
be  Sheltered  from  Coming  Storms,  58 — How  to  Prepare  to 
Escape  the  Day  of  Calamity,  60. 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0   147 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   156 

Clawson,  President  Rudger    180 

Violation  of  Moral  Law  a  Fatal  and  Deadly  Sin,  ISO — An  Ex- 
ample from  Profane  History,  180 — Illustrations  from  Sacred 
Scripture,  181 — Moral  Law  Emphasized  in  the  Ministry  of  Jesus, 
182 — Paul's  Analysis,  183 — Paul's  Interpretation  Amplified  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  183 — If  Man  is  Immoral  He  is  Weak  as 
Water,  183. 

Goddard,  Elder  Benjamin    167 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 

Engaged  for  Many  Years  in  Proclaiming  the  Gospel,  2 — Belief 
of  the  Latter-dayt  Saints  on  Government  and  Laws  in  General, 
3 — Duty  of  the  Saints  to  Sustain  and  Live  the  Law.  5 — Rest  Men 
Should  be  Chosen  Regardless  of  Politics,  5 — The  Saints  Believe 
in  the  Words  of  the  Prophet  Joselph,  5 — This  Audience  a  Testi- 
mony to  the  Divinity  of  the  Church,  7 — Falsehoods  St;ll  Prom- 
ulgated Concerning  the  Church,  8 — Disbelief  and  Lies  of  the 
World  Can  Not  Stop  the  Progress  of  the  Work,  8 — Our  Sacrifices 
for  the  Gospel  a  Proof  of  Our  Love  For  It,  10 — The  Uncertain 
Replies  of  the  Ministers,  11 — The  Definite  Answer  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  to  These  Questions,  12 — Believe  What  You  Say,  13 — 
Gratitude  to  Parents  Who  Were  True  to  the  Faith.  13. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J.    Introducing  John  M.  Knight,  41.   41 

Grant,  President  Heber  J.      Concerning  Orson  F.  Whitney..  ......  76 

Grant,  President  Heber  J.    Concerning  the  Audience,   93 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   174 

The  First  Conference  in  the  Great  Tabernacle,  174 — Subjects  and 
Remarks  by  the  Speakers  55  Years  Ago,  175 — A  Remarkable 
Gathering,  176. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J.     Introducing  Mr.  J.  R.  Howard,   177 

Grant,  President  Heber  J.      Authorities  Sustained   178 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   184 

Considering  a  Four-Days  Conference,  184 — Expressed  Thanks  to 
All  Who  Have  Taken  Part,  18,5 — Thev  are  the  Greatest  Speakers 
Who  Live  the  Gospel,  185— The  Standards  by  Which  We  Wish 
to  be  Judged,  186 — A  Prominent  Example,  186 — The  Joy  of  Con- 
verting Souls  and  Proclaiming  the  Gospel,  187 — An  Illustration  in 
the  Conversion  of  the  Speaker's  Brother,  188 — Sarcastic  Argu- 
ments Against  Prohib:tion,  190 — Babson  on  Prohibition,  191 — 
Getting  the  Towel  Dry  in  Business,  191 — Advice  to  the  Saints 
to  Get  Out  of  Debt,  192— The  Secret  of  "Making  Good,"  192— 
"The  Spirit  Which  Makes  Good,"  192. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Hart,  Elder  Charles  H  

Howard,  Mr.  J.  R  

Iverson,  Elder  Heber  C  

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W  

The  Creation,  84 — Man  Governed  by  Contrary  Powers,  85 — Enoch 
Sent  to'  Call  the  People  to  Repentance,  85 — The  Prophecies  and 
Work  of  Noah,  86 — The  Calling  of  Abraham  and  the  Rise  of 
Israel,  86 — Israel,  Under  David  and  Solomon,  a  Dominant  Na- 
tion, 87 — The  Coming  and  the  Mission  of  Christ,  87 — Christ 
Rejected  by  the  Jews,  88 — A  New  Gospel  Dispensation,  83 — 
The  Gathering  Foretold,  88 — The  Personage  Who  Inaugurated 
the  Work,  89 — This  Restored  Gospel  of  the  Kingdom  to  be 
Preached  in  All  the  World,  89—  Efforts  of  the  Evil  One  to 
Prevent  the  Purposes  of  God,  89 — Efforts  and  Methods  Adopted 
by  the  Evil  One  to  This  Fnd,  90 — Suggestions  From  the  Enemy 
of  Righteousness,  90 — How  Shall  We  Fortifv  Against  These 
Shafts" of  Evil?  91— How  We  May  Know  the  Will  of  God.  92— 
Repentance  Necessary,  92 — The  Nations  Have  Again  Refused  to 
Listen  to  God's  Call  to  Peace,  92 — May  the  Time  Soon  Come 
When  the  World  Will  Turn  from  Evil  'to  Good,  93. 

Jensen,  Elder  Nephi   

Jenson,  Elder  Andrew  

Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden  

Knight,  Elder  John  M  

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R  

Remember  the  Church  Educational  Institutions,  60 — Y.  M.  M. 
I.  A.  Life  Memberships,  61 — Obedience  to  Law,  61 — Remember 
the  Lord — Take  Counsel  of  His  Servants,  61 — Condition  of  the 
World  Since  the  Gosepl  Was  Restored,  62 — Patriotism  and 
Righteous  Living  Will  Cause  Our  Country  to  Endure,  63 — 
The  Y.  M.  M.  1.  A.  as  Helps  to  Good  Citizenship  and  Right 
Living,  63— The  Slogan  of  the  M.  1.  A.,  64. 

McCune,  Elder  George  F  

McKay,  Elder  David  O  

Text,  76 — The  Church  a  Church  of  Missionaries,  76 — What  the 
Missionaries  are  Preaching  by  Precept  and  Example,  76 — A 
Summary  of  Christ's  Message  to  the  World,  77 — The  World 
Rejects  Their  Message,  77 — Responsibility  of  Organized  Branches 
and  Wards  to  Exemplify  in  Daily  Life  the  Doctrines  and  Prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel,  78— Ideals,  78. 

McMurrin,  Elder  Joseph  W  

Nibley,  Elder  Charles  W  

Penrose,  President  Charles  W  

Truth  and  the  Practice  of  Truth,  21 — A  Special  Mission  for  the 
House  of  Israel,  22 — Our  Standing  with  Regard  to  Civil  Law, 
22 — Order  in  the  House  of  the  Lor<L_23. — Concerning  Dreams, 
Visions,  and  Revelations,  24 — The  Work  Prospers  Under  the 
Present  Administration,  26 — The  Gospel  Is  to  All  Nations, 
27 — Ready  to  Wear  Out  in  the  Service  of  God,,  28 — The  Work 
in  This  Great  Cause  Should  be  Done  Cheerfully,  28 — Testimony, 
29 — Consecration  and  Liberty  of  the  Saints,  29 — Tree  Agency  and 
Our  Glorious  Destiny,  30. 

Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L.     introducing  Elder  J  oseph  F.  Smith,  

Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L  

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L  

Two  Different  Views,  65 — Difference   Between  Broad-Minded- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ness  and  Heresy,  66 — The  Gospel  Embraces  All  Truth,  66 — How 
to  Preserve  our  Standards  and  Ideals,  66 — Blessings  Come  as 
We  Subject  Ourselves  to  the  Conditions  Upon  Which  They  are 
Predicated,  67 — Broadmindedness  Often  Confused  with  License, 
67 — Need  of  Adequate  Interpretation  of  the  Gospel,  67 — God 
Give  Us  Vision  and  Understanding,  68 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   80 

Disregard  for  Law  the  Cause  of  the  Downfall  of  Nations,  80 — 
Need  of  Living  Righteous  Lives,  81 — Close  Relationship  Be- 
tween Man  and  the  Earth,  the  Church  and  the  Nation,  81— ^ 
A  Duty;  in  Selecting  Loyal  Officers  and  Sustaining  Them,  82 — 
We  Believe  in  Honoring  and  Sustaining  the  Law,  83. 

Roberts  Elder  B.  H   14 

Smith,  Elder  David  A   104 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert    94 

A  Blessed  Land  in  Which  We  Live,  94 — A  Land  Hidden  for 
the  Lord  to  People,  94 — Obey  the  Laws;  Seek  the.  Lord,  and 
Keep  His  Commandments,  96 — Obedience  Enjoined,  97 — Re- 
pentance a  Remedy  for  the  Ills  of  the  World.  97 — Our  Duty  to 
Preach  the  Gospel  of  Peace,  98 — Abraham  Lincoln's  Important 
Message,  98 — Ere.e  Agency  of  Man,  99. 

Smith,  Elder  Hyrum  G   48 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   72 

Peter's  Advice  to  the  Saints  of  Old,  72 — Applicable  to  Saints 
of  Latter  Days,  73 — Our  Duty  to  Keep  the  Commandments,  73 — 
How  Otherwise  We  May  Bring  Reproach  Upon  the  Whole 
Church,  74 — No  Right  to  Membership,  if  We  Justify  Violations 
of  the  Law  of  God,  74. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  F   .  133 

Smith,  Elder  Winslow  Farr   .  122 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed    99 

The  Teachings  of  Mother,  100 — Position  of  the  Church  Toward 
the  Government  of  the  United  States,  100 — The  Power  of  Prayer, 
101 — A  Recent  Experience,  102 — A  Warning  to  Violators  of  the 
Law,  103. 

Talmage,  Elder  James  E   68 

A  Panoramic  View  of  Some  [Essential  Points  in  Church  History, 
69 — The  Great  Apostasy,  69 — The  Period  of  Spiritual  Darkness, 
69— The  Light  of  God  in  the  Restoration,  70— The  Church  of 
God  Established  Anew,  71 — The  New  and  Everlasting  Covenant, 
71 — This  Church  Led  by  Revelation  and  Inspiration  from 
Heaven,  72. 

Wells,  Elder  John   1 16 

Wells,  Elder  Junius  F  ,   136 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   118 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A   44 

Education  as  a  Factor  in  Obedience  to  Law,  44 — The  Spiritual 
Nature  a  Big  Influence  in  Education,  45 — The  Home  Must  Not 
Shift  Its  Responsibilities  To  the  School,  46 — Church  Schools  of 
Tremendous  Importance  in  Spiritual  Training,  46 — Seminaries  and 
Religion  Classes  Wonderful  Helps  in  Religious  Instruction,  47 — 
Spiritual  and  Mental  Education  Makes  Dependable  Intelligence, 
48— A  Testimony,  48." 

Young  Elder  B.  S   163 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   109 

Young,  Elder  Seymour  B   145 


DESERET  BOOK 
COMPANY 

44  E.  South  Temple  St. 


We  can  supply  you  with 

BOOKS 

For  all  Departments  of  Sunday  School  Work. 

Young  Men  and  Young  Ladies'  M.  L  Associa- 
tions, including  Manuals  and  the  New  Read- 
ing Course. 

Text  Books  for  the  Aaronic  and  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  Quorums'  study. 

Church  School  and  Seminary  Text  Books  and 
Books  of  Reference. 

Primary  Association,  Stories  to  tell  Children, 
Short  Stories,  Dialogues,  Recitations,  Speak- 
ers and  Music  Books. 

Books  for  every  day  in  the  year,  especially  for 
Summer  reading — Immense  Lines,  new  and 
attractive. 


SEND  FOR  OUR  NEW  CATALOG  FREE 


Three  Notable  Books 


ESSENTIALS  IN  CHURCH  HISTORY 

BY  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 
Of  the  CouncU  of  the  Twelve  mid  Church  Historian 

A  History  of  the  Church  from  the  birth  of  the  Prophet  to  the 
present  time,  in  ONE  LARGE  VOLUME,  of  700  pages,  suitably 
illustrated  with  portraits  of  the  leaders,  early  scenes  and  docu- 
ments of  historical  value,  and  original  maps,  showing  the  travels 
of  the  Church  from  its  organization  to  its  establishment  in  the 
mountains;  also  the  route  of  the  famous  Mormon  Battalion  to  the 
Pacific  Coast. 

This  book  is  adopted  as  a  text  for  the  study  of  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  and  for  the  Priests  in  the  Aaronio  Priesthood  for  the 
years  1922  and  1923. 

It  is  well  printed  and  handsomely  bound,  and  will  be  sold  at 
the  special  low  price  of  $1.50. 

"A  Guide  to  the  study  of  Essentials  in  Church  History"  con- 
taining lessons  for  the  entire  volume  and  arranged  for  a  two 
years'  course,  each  15c,  Doz.  $1.50. 

SATURDAY  NIGHT  THOUGHTS 

A  Series  of  Dissertations  on  Spiritual,  Historical  and  Philosophical  Themes. 
BY  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

The  book  is  designated  for  use  in  L.  Di  .S.  schools  and  sem- 
inaries, but  as  the  Themes  in  this  work  are  calculated  to  stim- 
ulate study  and  deep  reflection  of  Gospel  truths,  it  will  be  prized 
by  the  thoughtful  reader  everywhere.  Handsomely  bound  in 
cloth,  $1.00. 

Prophecies  of  Joseph  Smith  and  Their  Fulfillment 

BY  NEPHI  LOWELL  MORRIS 

Was  Joseph  Smith  a  Prophet?  What  answers  come  from  the 
century  that  has  rolled  by  since  he  beheld  his  first  vision?  Have 
the  Latter-day  Saints  misplaced  faith  in  him?  After  the  progress 
of  a  hundred  years,  what  has  Time  done  with  his  claims  to  the 
title  of  a  Prophet? 

In  order  to  make  plain  the  outcome  of  Time  the  author  has 
dug  up  old  and  forgotten  manuscripts  and  prints  which  he  lays 
before  his  readers,  with  photographic  reproductions  of  the  orig- 
inals.  Price,  $1.25. 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

444648  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE  SALT  LAKE  CITY 

SEND  FOR  OUR  NEW  CATALOG  FREE 


